Administration plans university-wide core
Dr. Achenbaum chosen to implement “quality” program; named associate VP
pliolo 1)\ Neil Gutiibhin
Dr. Andrew Achenbaum wants everyone’s input to influence his decisions.Permit selling policy creates problem
By BONNIE JACOBSEN
Tartan Stuffier iter
Here at CMU, parking is a very precious 
commodity. It seems, though, that someone 
has been over-selling the market.
According to Sylvia Austin, Parking Man­
ager, this year the problem of over-selling 
parking lots has been made worse due to 
construction in the lots at Skibo. This is a 
perennial problem, however, and a lot of 
people with permits are left without places to 
park. It is no doubt frustrating to pay $130 
for a permit, and then find the lot completely 
full. When Ms. Austin was questioned on 
this she said "It has been the policy here for 
the past ten years to over-sell the parking 
lots. Not all students, staff and faculty are 
here all day, everyday.”
If this system disturbs you, you do have 
an option open to you. It’s perfectly okay to
In this issue
News
Big moves.......................................page 2
Singleton wins..............................page 4
Features
New sights.....................................page 5
UDS passes..................................page 6
I Entertainment
D—E moves..................................page 9
j'ron Maiden................................. page 9
'Sports
Soccer wins................................page 13
MFC preview................................page 14
i Editorial
*gister & vote..........................page 18
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Dr. W. Andrew Achenbaum, professor of 
history at CMU, has been named Associate 
Vice President for Academic Affairs (Gen­
eral Education).
Achenbaum’s job will be to implement a 
core curriculum for the entire university. 
"The way it stands,” said Achenbaum, "var­
ious college deans have agreed, in priciple, to 
a core. However, who does what, where and 
how remains an intense discussion.”
The courses involved have not been 
decided. "There will be a writing implement, 
the question of computers . . . decisions will 
be made only after a concensus is agreed 
upon.”
Achenbaum will be working with John P. 
Crecine, deans, faculty, and students in 
order to get that concensus.
Achenbaum stressed communication. 
"There will be no secret plan hoisted upon 
people. There is no plan now. My job is to 
listen and keep an open mind. Not a sieve, 
but an open mind.”
Achenbaum stated repeatedly that eve-
ryone’s opinion will be taken into considera­
tion. A student committee will be headed by 
Brad Walter, dean of Student Affairs.
Achenbaum will sit on the Faculty Senate. 
"It’s kind of like building a republic,” stated 
Achenbaum, who teaches the Development 
of American Society course.
"This place has been educational in a lot 
of different areas, moving in different direc­
tions. A tension is written into the univer­
sity curriculum. We train people to have 
liberal and professional backgrounds. Stu­
dents acquire various skills in order to go out 
into the world and do something,” said 
Achenbaum. "The core will complement 
what we already do.”
Achenbaum was chosen to do a quality 
job. "I’m not going to leave the classroom to 
do a Mickey Mouse job.” For now, he is 
half-time administrator and half-time 
professor.
"We’ve got lots of ideas, now all we have 
to do is pick one,”said Achenbaum. A final 
date for implementation has not been 
decided.
forfeit your permit and get your money 
back. This will open a space (theoretically) 
for the next person on the waiting list.
If you are one of the people on the waiting 
list, you have another chance to obtain a 
permit. The Parking Department is cur­
rently observing the parking lot and noting 
the number of empty spaces during the day. 
When this observation period is over, the 
management will issue still more permits in 
proportion to the number of available spots.
The parking powers that be have no inten­
tion of altering this system anytime soon. If 
you are on the waiting list for a space we can 
quote the advice given by Ms. Austin over 
the phone to one inquiring parker, Ed 
Smetak, a Civil Engineering grad student, 
"That will be their (your) problem.” In any 
case we wish you happy hunting.
photo by Olve Peers«-n
The Parking Department claims the lots aren't all full.Satellite dish aids research project
By MOHAN EMBAR
Tartan Staffwriter
The satellite dish on top of Wean Hall was 
installed in late August for the Computer 
Science Research Facility’s project on infor­
mation switching and transmission. The 
dish can send and receive information from 
a satellite 22,000 miles above, and it links 
the entire Wideband Network at CMU.
According to Howard Wactlar, Director 
of Research Facilities for the Computer 
Science and Robotics Institutes, the satellite 
network project is part of the Experimental 
Integrated Satellite Network (EISN) pro­
gram. The EISN is connected to ARPANET, 
a worldwide network. Through the 
ARPANET CMU can send and receive voice
transmissions , pictures, data, and messages.
Wactlar describes EISN as a packet- 
switched network- information is not sent 
to a given destination all at once, but in short 
bursts called packets. These packets may not 
be sent straight to the destination but may 
"hop” along whatever route the network 
computer decides is least busy. "ARPANET 
is spread across the free world,” comments 
Waclar, "and the hops are dependent on the 
positioning of the dishes and satellites.”
EISN, according to Waclar, consists of 
the Westar satellite which follows the 
earth’s rotation. The satellite receives and 
relays information to the Earth station, also 
on top of the building, which acts as a relay 
for information fo and from Earth Station
Interface located in the building’s interior. 
The Earth Station Interface attaches to the 
ARPANET IMP, a computer which can 
either break streams of information into 
packets for transmission or reassemble dis­
joint packets from the satellite. The IMP is 
connected to host terminals. The entire 
packet assembly-dissassembly process is car­
ried out within the IMP so the research done 
with the EISN can concentrate on the appli­
cations of this system. The network hard­
ware was manufactured by Western Union 
and Scientific Atlanta.
The network system can transmit over
three million bits per second, where a bit is a
single digit or pulse that can be either a "1" 
continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Christopher Johnston I
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Staffwriter
For the third year in a row, the Student 
Counseling Center is occupying space in a 
new location. Over the summer, the Coun­
seling and Health Centers moved from More- 
wood Gardens D-Tower to the first floor of 
E-Tower.
Last year, the Counseling Center moved 
to D-Tower from Baker Hall. Sharing space 
with the Health Center was part of a plan by 
Dean of Student Affairs Brad Walter to 
merge the two centers, with the goal of pro­
viding better health services to students.
According to Dr. Lorrie Rabin, head of the 
Counseling Center, this year’s move was 
made because the space that Health and 
Counseling shared was simply inadequate. 
She added, "The waiting room was quite 
uncomfortable for students coming in for 
counseling. They wanted more privacy. 
With this move, both centers have more 
space and . . . students can have privacy 
when they come to the Counseling Center.”
Rabin feels that the quiet, somewhat iso­
lated location in E-Tower is another advan­
tage of the new location. She explained, 
"During the day there’s rarely anyone in 
this hallway. It’s comfortable to come to the 
Counseling Center, and we like to make it as 
easy as possible.”
Students who get to the Counseling Cen­
ter will find a variety of services available. 
Perhaps the most well-known is individual 
counseling, for students with problems of 
their own or students seeking advice on how 
to help their friends and roommates. In addi­
tion the center sponsors group counseling 
on topics such as study skills and time man­
agement, eating disorders, stress manage­
ment, and the problems of having separated 
or divorced parents.
Special services offered by the center
include residence hall programs, consulting 
for faculty, administration, and staff, and 
crisis work (including nights and weekends). 
In emergencies a call to the Counseling 
Center at x2922 will get immediate action. If 
the center is closed, a phone message gives 
instructions on how to reach Dr. Rabin.
The Counseling Center is open to sugges­
tions from the student community. "We’re 
always eager to hear from students and to try
and respond to what they need,” commented 
Rabin. This year’s workshop for students 
with separated or divorced parents, for 
example, is a result of several requests for 
such a program.
Rabin emphasized the importance of the 
close relationship between the staffs of the 
Counseling and Health Centers, stating "it’s 
been very good for our work and very advan­
tageous for students. It’s very nice and it’s
worked out very well.” The two staffs now 
hold joint meetings to evaluate the quality of] 
services and plan operations. Since both! 
centers moved together, referrals between! 
centers will remain simple to accomplish. I 
The first group counseling session oil 
study skills will begin September 25. Furthel 
details will become available as plans arl 
finalized.
Budget Hearing Session
Page 2—The Tartan—September 18, 1984
For more information:Dean Coxx2073
Funded by Activitirs FeeMichael Bett 682-4626
Counseling, Health relocate to E-Tower
Thursday, Sept. 20th at 7:00 p.m. in Skibo -- Wherrett Room
All organizations wishing to be funded or with Fall budgets Must Attend!

---------------------------------------------------

September 18, 1984—The Tartan—Page 3
Read named Technical Productions manager
By LESLIE FRANK '
Tartan Stajfwriter
Jim Read may be new to the position of 
Technical Productions Manager in the 
Drama Department, but he’s definitely not 
new in the field of technology in theatre 
production. He is agraduate of Yale, the first 
theatre engineering major ever to go 
through the Drama Department there. Read 
has been an independent theatre consultant 
for nearly twenty-five years and continues 
to pursue this line of work when not on
campus. He actually resides in Hartford, 
Connecticut and commutes to Pittsburgh, 
where he can be found here on campus Tues­
day through Thursday of every week. Need­
less to say he is dedicated to his work.
A fifteen-hour work day is average for 
Read, and he does it seven days a week. 
When asked how he felt about his work in 
the Drama Department, he replied simply, 
"It’s a challenge.” The "challenge” he is 
referring to includes teaching the series of 
Technical Production courses required of all
Drama majors.
Read is taking on the task of defining the 
process of theatre as a beginning to building 
an entirely computerized production sys­
tem. He stated his philosophy of change as, 
". . . you have to understand it before you 
can make a more optimum solution.” To 
have students understand all the facets of 
production is his goal. To this end he is 
incorporating into the curriculum every­
thing from organizational concepts and man­
agement to physics and theatre machinery
engineering.
When asked how he felt about his stu­
dents, Read said he found them "exciting—I 
enjoy stimulating and exciting them . . . 
That’s frankly been lacking in the Produc­
tion Department.” Motivation and excite­
ment appear to be behind all of the ideas for 
the Drama Department that Read described. 
No doubt, that excitement will be transmit­
ted to his students and fellow faculty 
members, as well.
Satellite aids research
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
• WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS FROM CMU
• REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
• THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
• 'THE FAIRFAX" . . . 4614 5th Ave.!
• WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED!
• YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU Guests 
to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & 
STUDIO APARTMENTS that could become 
available for Sept., Oct. & Nov. occupancy.
We are open for your viewing seven days per 
week. PLEASE call H. M. HARRITY for YOUR 
appointment; anytime. DIAL 621 -4030. We'll 
see YOU at 'THE FAIRFAX” . . . Neighbor.
continued from page 1
or "0". Streams of these bits can be used to 
encode at the same frequency the different 
types of information the EISN can handle.
The EISN will be connected in a few 
weeks, but for now. the network can still be 
"hopped on” by other ARPANET stations.
Short-term goals after the system is con­
nected include transmission and reception 
of the various mixed media the EISN can 
deal with. "Communication will be con­
ducted with sister research sites such as MIT 
and BBN, in Boston,"says Wactlar.
photo by Bob Fishel
Jim Read’s teaching philosophy is " . . . you have to understand before you can 
make a more optimum solution.”
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
September 11, 1984
The meeting was called to order at 7:08 PM.
Present: Bett, Bruno, Cohen, Corless, DeBroff, Duer, 
Goldstein, Pane, Rocher, Searing, Soller, Taylor, 
Volan, Weller, McCormick, Salley, Frank, Denburg, 
Dean Cox, Dean Walter, Mr. Lilly.
Absent: Ibrahim, Murray, Patula, Weaver, Williams, 
Nichols, Nagel.
Minutes: Amended and approved.
Dean Walter: No report.
Dean Cox: Announced Sorority pledge night Satur­
day, September 15.
Mr. Lilly: Announced he would be supervising the 
Senate retreat on Friday and Saturday, September 14 
and 15.
SDC: No report.
IFC: Announced Sorority pledge night Saturday, Day­
tona Car Race for charity on October 9 and 10, and 
Creek Sing for charity on March 8 at Carnegie Hall.
President: No report.
Chairman: Introduction of new Senate secretary, Les­
lie Frank. Asked all senators to make sure their informa­
tion cards were correct; reminder that office hours for 
senators started Monday; annouced phone-a-thon on 
September 25 in board room of Warner; meeting on 
September 25 to be at 6:00 PM; request senators to 
clean out their folders; request to avoid committee 
meetings in the hour prior to Senate meetings; Director 
of Libraries had reported that Hunt Library will proba­
bly be extending its hours of operation—open at 7:00 
AM, closing at 3:00 AM—subject to official approval.
Vi«» Chair: No report.
Treaurcr: No report.
Rules Committee: Robotics Club candidiate for 
funded status, description of purpose and mambership 
size. Vote for funded status of the Robotics Club: 
Passed unanimously. Announcements of clubs soon to 
be candidates for funded status; current Senate open­
ings are 1-MCS, 3-CIT, l-H&SS, 2-CFA; proposed Con­
stitutional Amendment to be tabled for one week, 
according to procedure.
Academic Affairs: Announced the results of a 
forum regarding how to produce good syllabi will 
be circulated through departments; the next Tar­
tan issue will have an ad inviting people to join the 
Academic Affairs Committee.
GC&I: Announced reception following the September 
18th Senate meeting for all who attend; voter registra­
tion forms are available at the Skibo Info Desk, and 
there has been a good response at signs on campus 
encouraging registration.
Finance: WRCT requested $4975.00 for a cable, pole, 
and amps to replace those currently being leased for 
$3000.00/yr; equipment to last 5-10yrs. Vote on alloca­
tion: Passed unanimously. WRCT requested $3600.00 
for reel-to-reel tape deck. Vote on allocation: Passed 
unanimously. Kiltie Band Dance Line requested alloca­
tion of $309.00 for additional uniform items. Vote on 
allocation: Passed.
Old Business: Reminder of equipment to bring on 
Senate retreat, departure time announced.
New Business: None.
General Dicussion: None.
Announcements: Junior Task Organization sign-up 
sheet passed around; committee meetings announced; 
meeting for all organizations requesting funding on 
September 20, at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room.
Meeting was adjourned at 7:45 PM.
These minutes to be approved at tonight’s meeting.
Submitted by Leslie Frank
ptioto by Mike Kilewski
A research project, not cable television, is the story behind the Wean Hall satellite 
dish.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—September 18, 1984
Winner of Frisch Prize
Singleton attains Econometric Society honor
ah-mmmi -,r 
- NiUSSAWrEMfccmians
‘’Hi ( .IS«/, H/MUOJT TLRS
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Kenneth Singleton, professor of Econom­
ics at Carnegie-Mellon University’s Gradu­
ate School of Industrial Administration 
(GSIA), is the co-winner of the Econometric 
Society’s 1984 Frisch Prize. Singleton and 
colleague Lars Hansen won the prize for 
their paper, "Generalized Instrumental Var­
iables Estimation of Nonlinear Rational 
Expectations Models,” which appeared in 
the September 1982 issue of the society’s 
journal, Econometrica.
"We had no idea we were even considered 
for the prize until we received the congratu­
latory letter informing us that our paper was 
one of five semi-finalists!,” Singleton com­
ments. The Econometrica committee selected 
their paper as the winner of the prize, 
awarded every two years to the best applied 
paper published in the journal during the 
past five years.
The Econometric Society is a professional 
society of more than 6,000 members world­
wide concerned with applied (empirical or 
theoretical) economics. The Frisch Prize is 
named for Rangar Frisch, one of the socie­
ty’s early members. Its purpose is to encour­
age the publication of scholarly papers 
dealing with economic theory and methodol­
ogy. The Econometric Society is more 
mathematically oriented than the American 
Economic Society, the other large Econo­
mists’ society in America.
Singleton and Hansen will accept the prize
Get that Great “X” 
Look
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU!
at the 1985 World Congress meeting of the 
society in Cambridge, Massachusettes.
"Generalized Instrumental Variables 
Estimation of Nonlinear Rational Expecta­
tion Models” studies the relationships 
between economic resources, or utilities, 
and consumer choices, or objective func­
tions. "The paper asks and answers ques­
tions about characteristics of production 
processes and consumer preferences by 
learning the characteristics of objective and 
utility functions,” says Singleton. Their 
research uses nonlinear equations to dis­
cover and examine economic correlations, 
such as those between labor and work, pro­
ducts and profits, and consumer use and 
savings.
Singleton illustrates an example of a con­
sumer who has a choice between an objec­
tive function of 30 units with a risk factor of 
two units, and an objective function of 100 
units with a risk factor of 70 units. The 
relationship between utility, objective func­
tion, the consumer’s risk aversion, and 
where the consumer is in his or her life cycle 
can determine which objective function the 
consumer will decide to take.
Singleton and Hansen have continued 
similar research and moved into new areas 
since the paper was published in 1982. Sin­
gleton has been working on economic mix­
tures and their subsequent economic 
problems, recently focusing on treasurable 
asset returns and the effects of consumer 
heterogenity on previous research.
Hansen, formerly of GSIA, is now at the functions to experiment with consumer-
University of Chicago pursuing a compli- demand equations, analyzing the properties
mentary line of research. Preferring empiri- of complete economies, and working with
cal studies, Hansen is currently using utility equilibrium equations.
photo by Bob Fishel
Professor Kenneth Singleton sitting in front of his place of employment, GSIA.
PRECISION PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT COLOR ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon , Tu« . Wrd. 10-7 
Thurv, Fri 10-9 
Sai 9-6687-5500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwcjod Sireri 
Across ihr strert .'rom 
Oakland Posi Office
€NTR€PR€N€UftS 
WflNTCD
WE ARE SEEKING AMBITIOUS & TAl€NT€D 
INDIVIDUALS TO BECOME AUTHORIZED SAl€S 
REPRESENTATIVES IN TH€ EXPLODING MICRO­
COMPUTER MARKET. NftTIONRL SOFTWRRC 
€XPR€SS IS AN INDEPENDENT AND AGGRES­
SIVE DISTRIBUTOR OF VIRTUALLY ALL BRAND 
NAME SOFTUJARE AND HARDWARE PRODUCTS. 
OUR EXCELLENT SUPPORT PROGRAMS AND 
LUCRATIVE COMMISSION SCHEDULES GIVE 
VOU THE OPPORTUNITY TO DEVELOP A PART- 
TIME BUSINESS INTO A FINANCIALLY SUC­
CESSFUL ENTERPRISE. EXTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE 
OF COMPUTERS IS NOT REQUIRED. U)E NEED 
PEOPLE NOW WHO:
• DESIRE FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
• ENJOV OPERATING THEIR OWN 
BUSINESS - BEING THEIR OWN BOSS.
WE WILL SELECT ONE INDIVIDUAL TO REPRE­
SENT N5€ IN THIS TERRITORY. IF YOU ARE 
INTERESTED IN THIS EXCITING AND RISK FREE 
OPPORTUNITY, CALL US TODAY FOA MORE 
INFORMATION. (COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED)
(415) 322-0639
------National- SOFWnnCxpress
750 UU6LCH RD . PfttO RITO. Cfl 94304

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
From higJi school to collegeTransitional period could be tough for freshmen
By ARTHUR GELMIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Another academic year has begun. While 
for some it is just that, another academic 
year, for most of over a thousand freshmen 
at CMU it is the beginning of a new life, a life 
very different from the one they led only a 
short while ago.
Because it is new, it often involves a 
period of settling in. According to Dr. Lorrie 
Rabin, acting director of CMU’s Counseling 
and Student Developmetn Center, the tran­
sition from high school to college can often 
be associated with a number of academic and 
emotional problems.
For example, some may be faced with a 
new form of competition. In high school, 
they may have been at the top of their class, 
whereas here they find that they are no 
longer unique or special. Others may be 
faced with more work than they are capable 
of handling. Those who found high school 
relatively easy and were not adequately pre­
pared for a challenging academic atmos­
phere of a university such as CMU might be 
confronted with a "double-barrel problem,” 
as Rabin put it. They may have to deal with a 
feeling of panic caused by the unexpected 
overload, and then they have to find a way to 
keep up with their studies.
There are many potential problems of the 
emotional sort as well. The separation from 
home is often accompanied by stress. Many 
find it difficult to start new relationships 
after seeing the old ones deteriorate. There’s 
also the "identity crisis” forced in part by 
the elimination of certain restrictions asso­
ciated with living with one’s family. The 
freshman may have to reevaluate what is 
important to him/her and possibly make 
some changes in his/her lifestyle.
The extent to which the adjustment 
period will be difficult for an incoming fresh­
man is determined by a number of factors.
photo l>\ NVil C.Kt nhliiin 
Incoming freshmen at Freshman Weekend — beginning a new life.
One of the most important is the degree of 
change in the environment. "Students who 
went to large urban high schools will proba­
bly have an easier time adjusting than those 
from small suburban schools,” explained 
Rabin. The freshman’s sense of self-esteem 
is also signficant in that it determines how 
well he is able to handle unfamiliar situa­
tions. Another factor cited by Rabin is the
student’s competence in social skills, which 
can help him/her develop a network of 
friends.
No matter how prepared the freshman is 
for his/her new role, it is normal to expe­
rience at least some difficulty during the 
adjustment period, according to Rabin. 
That’s why the Counseling Center is open to 
any CMU student seeking professional
advice. So far this year only a few freshmen 
have come to the Center for help. In Rabin's 
opinion, the Freshman Orientation played a 
considerable role in helping newcomers 
adjust to the unfamiliar environment.
Glenn Cuscino, a freshman from Pitts­
burgh majoring in economics, came to CMU 
expecting it to be difficult to get along with 
people in what he thought would be a cold 
university atmosphere. Fortunately, his 
expectations did not materialize, and he has 
not encountered any significant problems 
other than driving a long distance from 
home.
Another freshman, a New Yorker major­
ing in creative writing, also expected more 
problems than she actually found. "I did not 
expect Pittsburgh to be as nice as it is, I also 
expected problems with my roommates, who 
turned out to be great,” she said.
For other freshmen the adjustment is not 
as easy. Brett Whysell, for example, came to 
CMU to study industrial management from 
a suburban environment in Connecticut. 
His word of advice to any freshman expe­
riencing problems is, "Find someone to talk 
with, someone going through the same 
thing. It can help clarify the problem, and 
it’s good to know that other people are in the 
same boat.”
Rabin agrees: "It is helpful to share one’s 
feelings with others.” She added, "It is also 
helpful to remind yourself of things that 
remain constant. Favorite books, clothes 
and pictures can help a freshman go through 
continued on page 6
Students learn about business in Japan
By ANDREA SHIAH
Special to The Tartan
Every year AIESEC sends several of its 
members to foreign countries to work in 
businesses and major corporations. ThisCo-ed fraternity dedicated; serves community and school
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwritter
Well, it’s Rush time at CMU, and the 
fraternities are searching for potential 
members. But did you know that there is a 
co-ed fraternity on campus? Alpha Phi 
Omega, dedicated to community and school 
service, is open to everyone.
A Phi 0 has been active at CMU since 
1929 and is continuously growing. Rush 
Chairman Joe Guarino expects this semes­
ter’s pledge class to be approximately fifty
students, almost double from last year. He 
feels that the brothers are doing a good job 
by encouraging those interested to attend 
meetings. After that, the group’s enthusiasm 
and committment will do the rest.
What goes on at an A Phi 0 meeting? 
Each of the seven officers gives a report — a 
brief summary in relation to the events of 
his/her office. For example, Treasurer Joe 
McGervey speaks about the budget which 
will soon be completed. And during these 
continued on page 6
year, two members travelled to Osaka, Japan 
to work for Japanese companies. Their work 
involved studying a company and under­
standing its operations.
Ted Dawson, Vice-President of Finance, 
worked for seven weeks at Tsubakimoto. He 
rotated through five departments of the 
company: personnel, domestic sales, export, 
computer, and financial, to gain exposure 
and learn about a Japanese company. He 
found that the Japanese workers are 
extremely dedicated to the companies they 
worked for. They had the security of lifetime 
employment, a seniority system, and com­
pany unions. The sense of dedication to the 
country and company success drove workers 
to high levels of output and quality.
Dawson recognized a problem, however, 
with the seniority system, in which the initi­
ative of young workers is reduced and the 
most talented and creative employees are 
held in low level positions too long. But a 
competitive system of promotion may have a 
negative effect on the comfortable work 
atmosphere in Japan.
The structure of a Japanese office 
improves communication between workers. 
Managers and their staff sit together in one 
large room. This system promotes associa­
tion and openness among the workers. The 
workers at Tsubakimoto not only worked 
together, but they also relaxed together. 
After work, Dawson was able to go out, eat, 
continued on page 7
photo by Mike Kelly
A Phi O members — new and old — at their recent popcorn social.Ted Dawson, left, worked in Japan to study operations of Japanese companies.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—September 18, 1984
Craig visits CMU
Division VP from Marriott inspects facilities and functioning of UDS
photo by Neil Greenblum 
One of the UDS facilities that Craig inspected during his visit.
By JESSICA S. RUDNICK
Tartan Staffwriter
On Thursday, September 13, Douglas 
Craig, the division vice-president of the Edu­
cational Food Services Division of Marriott 
Corporation, visited Carnegie-Mellon to 
inspect the facilities and functioning of Uni­
versity Dining Services. CMU is one of 27 
universities whose food service program is 
run by Marriott, and Craig makes periodic 
visits to these universities. His review of 
UDS includes making sure all units are oper­
ating properly and smoothly (and at a profit, 
naturally), verifying that adequate services 
are being provided to the students, and gen­
erally checking to see that things are run­
ning efficiently.
Craig receives periodic reports from four 
district managers, who in turn receive 
reports from individual food service direc­
tors, such as CMU’s Bob Choate. But he also 
likes to make occasional visits to the individ­
ual schools, so we understand that the smil­
ing countenance of Choate is neither the
from page 5
reports, numerous sign-up sheets are being 
passed around, asking for participation in 
service projects.
Next, the committee chairpeople talk, 
looking for volunteers to help with their 
programs. A Phi 0 is busy with many service 
activities at once. There are community 
events concerning everything from aiding 
the elderly to parking cars at a company 
party. There are campus events such as the 
Book Exchange, C-Book, and Campus 
Calendars. And finally, there are social pro­
grams including parties and outings with
beginning nor the end of the chain of com­
mand linking us to Marriott.
In discussing CMU’s four-and-a-half year 
association with Marriott, Craig indicated 
that he has been pleased with UDS and the 
way it has been and is functioning. He 
seemed especially pleased with the physical 
renovations of the facilities; in particular, 
the drastic improvements in Morewood 
Gardens. "I believe in the importance of 
presentation,” he commented. "The appear­
ance of the facilities and the attractiveness 
of the food displays are nearly as important 
as the food served.”
Participation in the UDS contract plan is 
up again this year, according to Craig. When 
questioned about the ever-escalating volun­
tary participation in the program, Craig 
attributes it to Marriott’s commitment to the 
quality. "We are not used to dealing with 
captive customers in the other branches of 
our company,” he explained, "so we feel we 
must do as good a job of attracting customers 
to our college dining services as we do to our
other A Phi 0 chapters. All in all, there is 
something always to be done, and potential 
members are gladly welcome.
President Nick Gianaris rules over the 
meetings and makes certain that everything 
runs smoothly. Though his manner is rather 
formal, the fraternity is quite relaxed. There 
is much laughter and friendly jeering, and 
everyone seems to have a good time.
If you are interested in learning more 
about Alpha Phi Omega, visity their office in 
Skibo 54 or attend a meeting. They are held 
every Wednesday at 8:30 pm in the High­
lander Room.
other operations.”
Marriott’s success in school food service 
is also related to the fact that, with many 
universities involved, good ideas are fre­
quently generated and passed from school to 
school, claims Craig. He also said that more 
than a fair share of those innovations come 
from Carnegie-Mellon. He added that Marri­
ott rules are not strict and binding, so any 
individual food service director is free to 
individualize the guidelines to fit his particu-
continued from page 5
some difficult changes.”
Although entering college is a highly indi­
vidual process and everyone is affected dif­
ferently, it is common for people to 
experience at least some difficulty during
lar school, creating a unique Food Service 
program in each one.
The most important task that the students 
can perform to aid UDS and Marriott is to 
provide feedback. Both Craig and Choate 
urge students to make comments, especially 
at the comment tables periodically set up in 
the various UDS facilities. If the students 
speak up, Marriott and CMU Food Service 
can continue to improve, enhancing the 
quality of campus food.
this period of their lives. In many cases one 
person is not enough; advice is often needed. 
Whatever the nature of the problem, chan­
ces are other freshmen are going through the 
same thing, and many others have gone 
through it before.
A Phi 0 does service projects
Changes are difficult for all
ThePresident’sDistinguishedLectureSeriesHerbert
“The Impact of Computers on Society”
Tuesday,
September 18,1984 4:30 p.m. Skibo Ballroom 
CMUSimon
University Prolessor 
Camegie-Mellon University
No charge for admission

---------------------------------------------------

September 18, 1984—The Tartan—Page 7
A!ES EC sends members to Japan for business education
A grand view from the Cut on a hot summer day.
photo by Neil Greenblum
A demonstration of Sun terminals, which will soon be placed around campus.
only to the working atmosphere in Japan, 
but also to the social life. Both felt that the 
Japanese people were extremely friendly and 
very hospitable. They also found many 
friends among the students from the AIE- 
SEC committee located at Kwansei Guakin 
University in Japan. Upon his departure 
from Japan, Guarino was able to speak sev­
eral hundred words in Japanese. For Daw­
son, his trip to Japan was "the most 
meaningful experience of my life.”
AIESEC-CMU also gave the opportunity 
for three other members to work in England, 
Germany, and Greece. The cultural and 
practical experiences gained are invaluable. 
Anyone interested in finding out more about 
AIESEC or the working experiences abroad 
can call x3515 or stop by the AIESEC office 
at Skibo Hall Room 57.
and profits will eventually improve. There­
fore, quality control Circles are common to 
every Japanese company. There is an 
impressive exchange of ideas and employee 
input into the company’s products.
While in Japan, Guarino felt that the Japa­
nese women were too restricted. Japanese 
men believe that women should stay home in 
the traditional sense, while men work and 
earn the money for the family. Most Japa­
nese women only work three to eight years 
after college and the remaining 46-51 years 
will be spent at home. Once a woman quits 
her job due to marriage or pregnancy, it will 
be almost impossible for her to get a job 
again. Hopefully, this attitude will change 
and Japanese women will be given the free­
dom to expand.
Guarino and Dawson were exposed not
continued from page 5
and drink with his co-workers at restaurants 
and pubs. Socializing after work promoted a 
relaxed atmosphere and further served to 
improve communication between workers. 
Dawson gained a well-rounded perspective of 
the Japanese people by working, travelling, 
and relaxing with them.
Another AIESEC member, Joe Guarino, 
also worked in Osaka, Japan for Suntory 
Limited. Guarino, like Dawson, studied com­
pany operations. He also found that Japa­
nese workers were extremely dedicated to 
their companies. They had trouble under­
standing why Americans changed jobs so 
often, since lifetime employment is such a 
common practice in Japan. A company in
Japan called Huriba has not had one layoff 
since 1951.
Guarino found that Suntory adopted a 
role similar to that of a parent with its 
employees as the children. Suntory has 
three basic policies: health control, accomo­
dation, and life helping. These involve brief 
physical exercises every day, mandatory 
health check-ups, low-cost company flats, 
cheaper prices for company products, and 
money for borrowing to help children gain 
an education. The company aids in the happ­
iness of the workers. In return, the workers 
are highly motivated.
Workers in Japan know that if they 
improve the quality of their products, sales
FOOD ECOLOGY SWEEPSTAKES TO ^
7 D/SYS AND 6 NIGHTS AT THE FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA MARRIOTT HOTEL DURING SPRING BREAK, AND $200 SPENDING MONEY.
T-SHIRTS. FRISBEES or BOOKBAGS
Harriott corporation
-MOW« aMn* a or Nor a* «KHWm inamlnr* UnHMd Coc*-Co*«mid Cot»'T»i»y»wntmiumta<*T>wCoc»Co*Co"»«n»
C-Book
CORRECTION
FORM
If the information on your 3-D form 
was incorrect or if your address has 
changed for any reason, and you 
would like the correct information 
printed in the C-Book, fill out the fol­
lowing form, and return it to the A Phi 
O mailbox behind the Skibo Informa­
tion Desk.
Name__________________________________
Major
Year
Local Address
Phone.
Permanent Address

---------------------------------------------------

ROCK
New l/l/Qi/em
PSYCHEDELIC
IVIodern
FOLKFUNK
R€GGd€
PUNK
Haod Qcpe
SPACE©®m@djyj
Feedback-a news show
A weekly interview/talk show 
airing every Wednesday from 5:30 
to 6 : 30 p.m.
NEWS
airs every day four times a day (9 
a.m., 12 noon, 3p.m., 6p.m.)
Radio Calendar
Complete listing of local events ; 
tune in to WRCT at 8 a.m., 1p.m., 7 
p.m. and 11 p.m.
SPECIAL NEWS BULLETIN 
Wednesday, Sept. 19th on Feedback: 
our.second interview will be with 
special guest President Richard M. 
Cyert
Y É ^ É ^ 19 8 4W KL 1 PROGRAM ¦ GUIDE 88.3 FMISTEREO
578-2883 or 621-WRCT (9728) 
A Public Service station of 
Carnegie*Mellon University
Æfcock?Hard-•OldiesOSpaceDance
J^NewWave-core
e
•Blues¿Classical
Hjazz
©Experimental
%
^?Funk
JFPsychedeüC?bunkÎNolkVReggae
JFModern•Country
?
Olndustrialiff Comedy
MONTUEWEDTHUFRISATSUN
6Electronic
Mysteries
Melodic
Rationalizations
Mad Mixin'Dark Horse 
Saloon
Youth in Asia 
Radio
Class Act Only
7
Phil
8
Rick Brandt
4r*fYt#0
Reggie
iAS.................
Inspector
jtJtjL........
Oirk Tungsten 
¦it*
Mort and Jane
Ä'tM'4. ..
9Music
Incognito
Ten Miles of 
Bad Road
L’ Amour Fou1984Trip, Stumble 
and Fall
RPMRussian Rou- 
-lette w/ Bella
âis______10
The Queen
of RadioRandom Truck
11
RichE. Wade the K 
ee * • *^£JKMJUL..
Pornography 
e ?.JIM. .... ...
Mike Usually
MMJt. . -
Spaced out SarahOvid
»2.*.
w/ Tony
..Æ.&.. ........
12PMNew WoodBeneath the 
Grooves w/ NeilMothership
Connection
Void Where 
Prohibited
Rob ShowIllicit Affairs 
w/ Rick
Tartnr __
My Show
Joelle
1
Peter 
» . ,
A RandomTNee _....
2
Selection w/ Don
eewwse ....T h. . ... _Adminnnnnnnnnnn
FootballBop V Blues
3Psychedelic
Jungle
Baby SnakesNow, ThenBeer in Your 
Ear
Closed Caption... 
w/ Steve Murch
Willy V. ! 
#.«__________
MMM............NeuroticaThe Music Never4Harris
MM
Easter Island...Stopped
HookChuck FarleyBillw/ FlorianJeff Staffordw/ The Cat
5*3*MM ft . ^Feedback:MQ&Q• — MJr *MjiiV '4 .
Sad Factsa talk show
6w/Radio PepePleasantViewTouchingHampsterMutations
M.3. ? *7Modern Angst
8
John Doe
eEn
w/ Norbert
i"4
8toni«m
M + *
Mark Jason
liAxi 1
Wayne
¿?o
Fred
a e t..M. *..<& **.......
Fetko
MÊQQQ
9Heimlich 
Maneuver w/J.P
S'fi* _
DADA*Adventures in 
Nimiety
Death by 
Droning Dishes
Hoop de Hoodie 
Euph Noodle
The Party 
Never Stops at
Dynamic
Vegetation
The Cold Front
Dance NoiseCarlos Control
11
w/ Tracy
,SL*
Clareand Or. Entropy
QQ......................
Redhot Rosa
_L_
Gum Parker 
MM Q
Russell Post 
*»**'•
-Norman
.lirai ...
12 AMMorphic
Resonance
Social RegisterBest Thing Since 
Whipped
JuneGuts and 
Passion
Music for 
Catholic ^
The Means
Justify
1Chris
Taylor Travers 
*0*
Cream
Bambi
ir’TToa
Socialiststhe Means
2
Koenigsberg
K*M j
JuneHal
dirro
Mr. Nobody 
MM*%$ +
3Is There 
Anybody
4Out There?
5
Phil
..

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
DiCesare-Engler moves offices, shows to Mosque
Iron Maiden makes a strong 
showing with Powerslave
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Earlier this summer, as the last member of 
the Ted Nugent road crew left the house and 
the doors were locked behind him, the Stan­
ley Theatre ended its reign as a top rock and
- roll concert hall. After several 
months of negotiations, and still 
jf more of planning, DiCesare- 
Engler Productions, Inc. sold 
the Stanley to The Heinz Endowment.
Under its new ownership, the Stanley is 
undergoing a complete transformation. 
Seating is being rearranged, the stage is 
being enlarged, and new rooms are being 
added. When the Stanley reopens in a little 
more than a year, it will be the new home for 
the Pittsburgh Ballet and Opera, as well as 
the Civic Light Opera and various other 
Broadway touring productions.
The Stanley had been home for DiCesare- 
Engler since early in 1976. Originally billed 
as 'Pittsburgh’s Palace of Amusement’ when 
it opened in 1928, the Stanley was the major 
center of entertainment for the city until the 
late '60s, when the Civic Arena was built.
The beautiful, gold-leaf ornamented con­
cert hall was really an unlikely place for a
designed by John Conklin.
Baritone Gerald Dolter, winner in the 
1984 Metropolitan Opera National Council 
Auditions, replaces Dutch baritone John 
Broecheler, who has cancelled due to illness, 
in the leading role of Rolando.
One of eleven finalists in the Met Audi­
tions, Mr. Dolter was heard subsequently in 
a concert with the Metropolitan Opera 
Orchestra, broadcast live over Natrional 
Public Radio. The New York Times singled 
him out as "ready to step quickly into full­
time professional life.”
In June 1984, the Dubuque, Iowa native 
won first place in the baritone category in 
the International Verdi Competition in Bus- 
seto, Italy. He becomes leading baritone 
with Germany’s Bremen Opera in 1985.
Mr. Dolter has appeared as soloist with 
the Phoenix Sympnony Orchestra, Rich­
mond Symphony Orchestra and the William 
Hall Chorale in Los Angeles. This past 
summer he sang the role of Dr. Malatesta in 
Don Pasquale at the Music Academy of the 
West in Santa Barbara, California.
Single tickets, ranging form $8 — $32, are 
available at the Heinz Hall Box Office, Kauf- 
mann’s and Gimbels, or by calling TICKET* 
CHARGE at 392-4900 (Visa/MasterCard 
accepted).
1 I
photo by Colin Rafferty
Videos came to AB Dance as students flocked to the "Wild Dance Party”last 
Friday.
Pittsburgh Opera to debut on National Public Radio
Verdi’s La Battaglia DiLegnano will make 
its American broadcast debut on National 
Public Radio, announced Pittsburgh Opera 
general director Tito Capobianco today. The 
production, which opens the Pittsburgh 
Opera’s season on September 20 & 22, is 
being taped by National Public Radio for 
delayed broadcast throughout the United 
States. Made possible through the generous 
sponsorship of Lee and Brena Freeman of 
Chicago and the H.J. Heinz Company, the 
broadcast marks the first time the company 
has ever received national radio exposure.
Fred Calland will host the broadcast, and 
producer is Andrew Trudeau. National Pub­
lic Radio is the world’s first noncommercial, 
satellite radio system. It was incorporated in 
1970, and currently provides programming 
services to a growing association of 288 pub­
lic radio stations in 47 states, Puerto Rico, 
and the District of Columbia.
In addition to its broadcast debut, La Bat­
taglia Di Legnano is receiving its American 
fully-professional stage premiere in Pitts­
burgh. Verdi’s patriotic drama stars soprano 
June Anderson, tenor Gateano Scano, bari­
tone Gerald Dolter, and bass-baritone 
Richard Cross, under the baton of maestro 
Theo Alcantara. The new produciton, 
devised and directed by Tito Capobianco, is
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Aaautant Entertainment Editor
'From whence cometh these winds of 
change?’ queries the perplexed Iron Maiden 
fan after the first spin of their new disc, 
Powerslave. The band is sounding more like
a band and less like a group of 
individuals. The material flows 
with abundance from more than
* one pen. And Eddie — poor 
Eddie! — has been from his padded cell torn 
and trussed in a mummy’s guise (Q. Does 
this mean he’s a transvestite?)
Most bands regard deviation from a suc­
cessful pattern a disease along the order of 
leprosy, and indeed Powerslave is not so 
drastically different so as to suggest some 
major new thought patterns in the Maiden 
brain trust. Nonetheless, there are some 
intriguing novelties.
First, this marks the only time in the 
band’s short (5 album) history it has man­
aged to complete two albums in a row with­
out personnel change. The maturity shows. 
The sound is more cohesive, more self- 
conscious, more balanced; thanks to fine 
engineering by Martin Birch and a fine 
recording set up, the guitars are wonderfully 
ambient, the bass does not over dominate, 
the vocals are coherent, and the percussion 
is solid.
Second and most important, the writing 
chores are now spread throughout the band. 
Steve Harris, who at one point almost single 
handedly produced the material, penned 
half of Powerslave.
The slack was taken in primarly by vocal­
ist Bruce Dickinson. Alone or with guitarist 
Adrian Smith, he produced the album’s most 
memorable tunes, including "Flash of the 
Blade” (featuring some Rob Halford-style 
growls) and the single releas "2 Minutes to 
Midnight”. Dickinson also reaches new 
hights as a vocalist as he brings home the 
powerful title track.
Steve Harris, while undoubtedly the top 
bassist in heavy metal, is having a tough time 
as a lyricist. His best offering is "Losfer 
Words (Big ’Orra)” — an instrumental. 
'Rime of the Ancient Mariner’, which 
stretches almost 14 minutes, also shows 
musical artistry by employing unique modal 
experimentation about halfway through as 
Harris’s bass picks up the mood exquisitely
well and leads the poor mariner from dispair 
to grace.
The words, however, come across like a 
play-by-play account of the poem (which, as
I remember from high school, wasn't all that 
thrilling, anyway), and the music isn’t out­
standing enough to justify the length.
The balance in writers produces some 
interesting new sounds. Most of Dickinson’s 
and Smith’s songs are built around guitar 
harmonies. There are few actual guitar 
solos, none of which are outstanding, but 
the dual work is so good you don’t miss 
them. And Harris seems to push himself to 
produce his best bass lines for songs he did 
not write, particularly in "2 Minutes to 
Midnight.’
On the whole, Pow er slave receives high 
recommendation. Maiden is growing. Their 
material has new verve and guts. When you 
hit the bottom line, they prove themselves 
once more to be the masters of melodic 
overkill.
Chamber Music 
Project opens 
new season
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project 
will present its first concert of the season on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, September 25 and 
26, at 8 p.m. in Cavalry United Methodist 
Church, Allegheney and Beech Avenues on 
the Northside. There will be works by Sta- 
mitz, Bach, Dukas, Dahl, and Kohnanyi. 
Performers will include Virginia Smoliar, 
oboe; Roy Sonne, Stephanie Tretick, Huei- 
Sheng Kao, violins; Paul Silver, Lynne Ram­
sey Irvine, violas; Lauren Mallory, Michael 
Lipman, celli; and the Pittsburgh Brass 
Quintet. The performance is free and open 
to the public. Free parking will be provided 
courtesy of Northern Light Company in 
their lot on the corner of Allegheny and 
Western Avenues. The Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music Project is a non-profit, tax-exempt 
organization. Any donations will be grate­
fully accepted.
For further information, please call 371- 
4070.
photo courtesy DiCesare- Engler Productions.
The Stanley Theatre’s t wo incarnations: in 1928(1.) and 1984 (r.)
rock concert. But in their 8 year residence 
there, DiCesare-Engler was able to use the 
building to its fullest potential, producing 
every type of show imaginable.
Although it was easy to see why the Heinz 
Endowment was so eager to purchase the
Stanley, and easy to see that it will serve its 
purposes in its new form well, the Stanley 
will nonetheless be sorely missed as a rock 
and roll showplace.
But Dicesare-Engler Productions hasn’t 
disappeared from the Pittsburgh entertain-
ment scene. Instead, the concert promotion 
agency has moved its offices into the Syria 
Mosque, in Oakland. Although DiCesare- 
Engler is only managing the hall (ownership 
still rests with the Syria Shriners), most of 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENTS!
SUBSCRIBE NOWAND GET TWO TICKETS FREE
MICHAELTILSON THOMAS WYNTON MARSALISLORIN MAAZEL ITZHAK PERLMANTake Advantage of Incredible Student DiscountsSubscribe now for as little as $3.50 per concert—less than the price of a movie!,50 perthe price of a
HOW TO ORDER
1. Fill out the mail order form to the right and mail today.
2. Charge by Phone. Call (412) 392-4821 Monday 
through Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Visa/MasterCard accepted.
3. Sign up on campus through your student rep.
4. Visit the Subscription Sales Office, 4th Floor, Heinz 
Hall, 600 Penn Ave., downtown Pittsburgh, Monday
•through Friday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m.
Student Subscriber Order Form
Detach and mail to:
Pittsburgh Symphony 
Sales Office 
Heinz Hall 
600 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Name _____________
SeriesNo. of 
Seats
Price per 
SubscriptionTotal
First choice:
Second choice:
Method of Payment:
? Check or money order 
enclosed for full amount, 
payable to the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Society.
Charge to the credit card checked:
Current Mailing Address 
as of Sept. 1 _________
City
? MasterCard
? Visa
State-Zip_
School
Account No.
Exp Date/
Current phone (. 
Student I.D. No.
Name as on card
Signature
The Pittsburgh Symphony OrchestraLorin MaazeU Music Consultant
AB Coffeehouse
presents
Friday 
September 21 
Wherrett Room
8 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

September 18, 1984—The Tartan—Page 11
Concerts now 
at MosqueWRCTTopTen
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER
jn out patient me(tical clinic offering
• Abortion—asleep or awake
• Morning After Treatment
• Birth Control
• Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920
[Allegheny^Womens
vteifc jl (enter («i BW* 
211 North Whitfield St. 
f-r ¿ riMíburgh. PA 1S206C PÏÏltŒY rnoNi
1. Husker Du
Zen Attraction s
2. Elvis Costello
Goodbye Cruel World
3. Fang
Where The Wild Things Are
4. The Minutemen
Double Nick el s On Th e Di m e
5. The Gun Club
The Las Vegas Story
6. Shreikback
Jam Science
7. Bad Manners
Forging A h ead
8. Birdsongs Of The Mesozoic
Magn etic Flip
9. The Red Hot Chili Peppers
The Red Hot Chili Peppers
10. Romeo Void
In stinets
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy returns to 
Chatham College’s Eddy Theatre this fall for 
its fifth season of innovative performances.
In four concert weekends, October 19-20; 
December 14-16; March 22-24;and May 31- 
June 1, the Alloy will showcase a rich mix of 
current dance trends; provocative new 
works by both guest choreographers and 
company members as well as past favorites 
from the repertoire.
Guest artists Miguel Lopez, Kathy Dun­
can, Jerry Pearson, Mark Taylor (all based in 
New York City) and Catlin Cobb will each 
premiere an original new dance with the 
company. Also, as a series highlight, there 
will be a collaborative concert with the Pitts­
burgh New Music Ensemble, a nationally 
recognized chamber group under the direc­
tion of David Stock.
Opening the season in October will be a 
new work by Miguel Lopc^,. Mr. Lopez is a 
former faculty member at the Alvin Ailey 
Dance Center in New York City and recently 
in the Soviet Union as a consultant to the 
Op era Ballet of Tbilisis’s production of 
"Porgy and Bess.” Also new on the October 
program will be a piece by Kathy Duncan, 
an independent dancer/choreographer 
whose work last year was hailed by the New 
York Times as "unbearably poignant...some 
of the most deeply touching dance of the 
season....”
Jerry Pearson, who has twice before set 
dances for the Alloy, returns in the 
December concert with Stick Figures, an 
inventive, prop-filled dance of soothing, 
magical dimension. A former member of the 
Murray Louis Dance Company, Pearson co- 
directs with his wife The Sara and Jerry 
Pearson Dance Company in New York City.
Highlighting the weekend of March 22nd 
will be a newly commissioned work by Mark 
Taylor, < choregrapher and Artistic Direc­
tor of Mark Taylor and Friends. The New 
York Times describes Taylor as "an excep­
tionally sure choreoghapher whose dances 
are elegant, witty, and knowledgeably put 
together.” Known for combining vigorous
physicality with soft, fluid grace, Taylor is 
rapidly emerging as a gifted talent of "remar­
kable inventiveness” (Dance Magazine) and 
"solid craftmanship” (Village Voice).
The final concerts of the 1984-85 season
will spotlight New Music/New Dance in a 
collaborative concert with the Pittsburgh 
New Music Ensemble. These performances 
will feature guest artist Catlin Cobb and cho­
reographers from the company.
This list ¡8 a feature that will appear bi weekly in 
TheTcurtan. WRCT ran be found at 88.3 on the 
FM dial.
Tim Settimi (I.), winner of the 1984 Campus Entertainer of the Year awards in both comedy and performing arts, will be 
in the ballroom Wednesday at 8 pm. Scott Jones (r), musician and comedian, will appear Friday.
Timi» fn
DE A ROAD SCHOLAR RENT FROM NATIONAL
Get owoy and get a free T-shirt.
Getting away this weekend may be easier, more fun. and less 
expensive than you think.
That’s because National rents lo 18-year-olds, and gives you 
clean, sporty cars at low prices. Absolutely no mileage charge.
And now a free Road Scholar T-shirt wilt help make your week­
end a great getaway.You can rent at any of the National locations below. All you 
need is a valid student ID and driver’s license. Use a major credit 
card or submit a cash qualifying application 24 hours prior to 
rental. You pay for gas and return the car to the renting location.
T-shirt offer good while supplies last.
You deserve National attention.«
Dance Alloy offers a mix of old and new
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444 • 434 Blvd. of the Allies 261-5500
continued from page 9
their shows will be done at the Mosque, with 
the remainder at the Civic Arena.
The move has several positive impacts on 
our campus community. The strongest point 
is that now concerts will be much easier to 
attend, since the Mosque is walking distance 
from CMU. Additionally, the Mosque offers 
a ballroom for smaller-sized concerts which 
might appeal more to college audiences. This 
all means better entertainment for CMU stu­
dents in the upcoming school year.
In the next few months, DiCesare-Engler 
will be using the Mosque for the following 
shows: Peter, Paul and Mary, Lou Reed, and 
X. Tickets are available for all shows at any 
National Record Mart.
Rate available 
from noon 
Thursday to 6 pm 
Monday 
Certain daily 
minimums 
apply Ask for 
details.
photo by Bob Fishei
\ttfi di\t itunktbh' rate 
tiftphts kt this t*r stinihif MZi* tttr 
ttml ts suhfit’Hft i haiHjt' u ithout notn e 
V*rith hits uibfei t Ut ut utkththft
The Syria Mosque is Pittsburgh's new site for concerts.

---------------------------------------------------

Activities Board Lecture Presents
An Evening with Tim Settimi
Wed., Sept. 19 8 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Funded by Activities Fee
...an evening of comedy, 
mime and ventriloquism

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Bucknell ends Tartan road-game win streak
Intramural sports report
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staf/writer
As the fall intramural sports season gets 
underway at Carnegie-Mellon, Director of 
Intramurals Earl J. Birdy is busily attending 
to last minute organizational tasks. Birdy 
expects the program to be as successful as 
last year’s program, which involved nearly 
4200 students.
The intramural program offers recrea­
tional competition in a great number of 
sports to suit the diverse number of tastes 
among the students at CMU. The organiza­
tion of teams in every conceivable fall sport 
from football to chess has required extensive 
planning.
Each week. The Tartan will list important 
dates, times and information which team 
members should take note of. Highlights of 
the previous week’s happenings wil! also 
appear.
This week, THE KICK-OFF:
There will be an important meeting of the 
Intramural Board on September 20 at 12:30 
P.M. The meeting will be held at the intram­
ural office, room 101 next to the gym... I.M. 
officers for 1984-1985 are:. President, Rob 
Fleishman; Vice President, Pete Viscante; 
Secretary, Gabriella Concalves ...
TOUCH FOOTBALL. Games start on 
Monday, Sept. 17th at 8 P.M., 9 P.M. and 10 
P.M. at the Intramural field ... League sche­
dules are available at the IM office or at the 
gym bulletin board ... all teams must return 
equipment upon termination of their games 
... league commissioners are: Matt Feldman, 
Majors, 687-3285; Chris Pfeiffer. Interme­
diate, x4277; Vince Carozza. Minors. 682- 
9580; Tom McGaran, women only.
TENNIS. This year’s twenty-six intramu­
ral tennis teams sets an IM record ... the 
commissioner of tennis is Ann Witchner, 
x2107 ... all team members must check the 
IM bulletin board for schedules and turn in 
scores within 24 hours after the match is 
played.
GOLF. The E.J. Birdy Open will tee off on 
Sunday, Sept. 30 at Schenlev Park Golf 
Course ... all teams must turn in scores to 
the IM office by Monday, Oct. 1 ... the com­
missioner of golf for 1984 is Rob Schnorr. 
682-0811.
¦QpOl'lJ liUgimiing wun:
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL. Teams are 
encouraged to sign up at the IM office and to 
check the bulletin board for game times ... 
each team must have three males and three 
females on the court during the game ... the 
commissioner is Rob Schnorr.
CROSS COUNTRY. Commissioner is Pit 
McMullen. 683-0198 . . . meet dates will be 
announced in the near future . ... races will 
be run at Schenlev Park with a special race 
for women only.
WATER POLO. Teams should check the 
IM bulletin board for practice times and 
game schedules . . . teams must provide a 
certified life guard for each match.
CHESS. Teams are encouraged to register 
now for the fall season.
SOCCER. Entries are due on Thursday. 
Sept. 27 at 4:30 PM ... a maximum of 15 
players are allowed on a team, onlv six plav- 
ers are allowed on the field at one particular 
time . . . there will be a special league for 
women onlv.
For additional information, contact the 
intramural sports office at x2214.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan New» Editor
Led by senior quarterback Bob Gibbon, 
the Bucknell University Bisons stampeded 
the CMU Tartans, 42-7, at Memorial Sta­
dium in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
The Bisons, a Division I-AA school, 
scored more points than any other Tartan 
opponent since Westminster defeated the 
Tartans 50-0 in 1971.
The game was never in doubt. With just 
1:32 elapsed in the first quarter, senior wide 
receiver Dave Kucera beat CMU cornerback 
Joe Orlowski for a 42-yard touchdown recep­
tion. The pass came three plays after a Vic 
Boland fumble on the CMU 43 yard line.
The Tartans had three fumbles and threw 
two interceptions, mistakes not evident 
against their Division III Competition. 
Whether it was Bucknell’s size and speed or 
poor execution on the part of the Tartans is 
questionable. What is definite is that these 
errors cost Carnegie-Mellon the game, or at
yards, his first five receptions for the Tartan 
varsity.
The Bisons gained 255 yards rushing to 
CMU’s net total of 23. CMU gained 88 yards 
rushing, but lost 65, including seven Buck­
nell sacks, five againse Zito, for losses total­
ling 56 yards. The Bisons Totalled 497 yards 
offense.
Tartan Tattlers—The Tartans Open their 
Presidents’ Athletic Conference season next 
week against John Carroll ... CMU defeated 
Carroll 19-0 to complete last year’s 9-0 regu­
lar season ... Carroll returns tailback Brad 
Cantwell, an all-PAC selection last year ... 
Hensel has now thrown three TD passes. 
The Tartans threw only five as a team all of
1983 ... CMU’s defense has now given up 56 
points. The unit gave up only 48 in the 
regular season last year... Bucknell comes to 
Pittsburgh next September 14 to face the 
Tartans again ... Roble was named WRCT 
player-of-the-week by announcers Jeff Berg­
man and Neil Jordan.
photo by Erik HornA dejected Tartan bench tells the story of the game.
Soccer team takestournament handily
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan SporU Editor
The Carnegie-Mellon soccer team won its 
own tournament this past weekend rather 
handily with a 4-0 win over California State 
of Pennsylvania on Saturday and a 6-0 
defeat of Robert Morris on Sunday.
On Saturday, Charlie Lockhead scored 
twice in the first half and Neal Frink and 
freshman Alan Mayr each added a goal to 
make the final 4-0 in a game which CMU 
dominated throughout. Sam Montague and 
Jamie Ruffings combined in goal for the 
shutout.
The following day in the championship 
game the Tartans repeated their three goal
first half performance as Alex Tomlinson 
started off the scoring with a head-in follow­
ing a throw-in to give CMU all the scoring it 
would need for the day. Alan Mayr scored 
the first of his two goals and Owen Ranta 
rounded out the first half scoring.
Mayr Booted in a loose ball in front of the 
net to increase the lead early in the second 
half. Neal Frink hit a long goal that nearly 
went off the foot of Doug Anderson and 
Anderson scored the final goal on an assist 
fron Owen Ranta to make the final 6-0. The 
Tartans outshot their opponenets by a com­
bined 62-15 total for the tournament.
The Tartans Continue their season Wed­
nesday September 19 Versus St. Francis at 
home at 3:30 PM.
least a chance of winning it.
The Bisons scored 28 points after Tartan 
turnovers. Along with the Kucera touch­
down, Mark Sibert capped a 79-yard drive 
with a 27-yard run after a fumbled field goal 
snap. Instead of the score being 7-3, the 
score was 14-0. Two-and-a-half minutes 
later, Bison fullback Rob Masonis ran 11 
yards for a score just 30 seconds after quar­
terback Dave Zito fumbled on the CMU 38. 
Zito was crushed on a blind-side hit by 253- 
pound defensive tackle Mark Wisniewski. 
The score was 21-0 at the half. CMU hadn’t 
given up as many as 21 points since a 21-19 
loss versus Hiram in the third game of the
1982 season.
The clincher came with 13:15 left in the 
third quarter. The Tartans had moved the 
ball well, gaining 174 yeards in the first half, 
and some felt they might break through in 
the second half. CMU was heading for a first 
down to start the quarter when a Zito fumble 
was recovered by Paul Havrilla, who earlier
had an interception.
Two plays later Gibbon completed his 
second TD pass, this time to Sibert for 20 
yards. The pass tied Gibbon for the Bucknell 
career touchdown pass record. It was his 
eighteenth in just eleven games.
The lone score for CMU came in the third 
quarter. Mike Hensel completed three 
passes, the last a 41-yard scoring pass to 
Mike Behling. Behling made a great effort, 
tipping the ball into the air before coming 
down with it on the 27 yard line and sprint­
ing to the end zone.
The Tartan passing game, particularly 
receivers Roger Roble and Roy Teresky, was 
the lone bright spot for CMU. Tech out- 
gained the Bisons 255-242 through the air. 
Zito completed 11 of 16passes for 118yards; 
Hensel was seven of 18 for 137 yards.
Roble, who caught seven passes for 95 
yards, made several spectacular catches 
while running dangerous over-the-middle 
routes. Teresky caught five passes for 43
photo by Dina Duhl
Charlie Lockhead tries to elude a defender as John Macnamara and Ted Anderer
look on.
United Way...thanks to youit works for all of us!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—September 18, 1984
NFC divisional races too close for comfort
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Sports Editor
With the NFL's top two rushers, top two 
passers, leading receiver, top pass interceptor, 
top punt returner, top three non-kicking scorers 
and four kicking scorers the NFC has nothing to 
be ashamed of.
The NFC looks to have extremely close div­
isional races in all the divisions. In the east. 
Washington. St. Louis and Dallas all have the 
potential to win with the runner-up taking a 
wildcard spot. In the Central Division, where a 
9-7 record gets you to the playoff, everyone but 
the Bucs of Tampa Bay looks good. The west is 
probably the strongest dision in the conference, 
with the 49ers. Saints and Rams all taking aim at 
the top and the Falcons not far behind.
For the sake of predicting, take the Redskins 
in the east, just because they're the Redskins. 
Take the Bears in the Central division and 
49ers in the West -- maybe. Give the wildcard 
spots to St. Louis and New Orleans (no that’s 
not a misprint) and look for San Francisco to 
win the conference championship, if only 
because the law of averages says the same two 
teams can't be in the Super Bowl two years in a 
row.
Here is a rundown of each team in orderof 
predicted finish:
NFC East
Waskmton- The Redskins will not have an 
easv time holding off Dallas and St. Louis, but 
their experience and overall strength should 
help them take the NFC East. With one of the 
best quarterbacks in the league in Joe Theisman 
leading an offense that can destroy you in the 
air or on the ground the Redskins don’t have to 
worry about putting points on the board. The 
defense is superb against the rush, but mediocre 
against the pass, which means it could be possi­
ble to outscore the Redskins.
St. Louis- The Cardinals could finish any­
where from first to fourth in the division, but 
giving them the benefit of the doubt and assum­
ing they play consistently (which they haven’t 
done lately) second is as good a spot as any. If 
thev can get Neil Lomax some protection (he 
was sacked 40 times last year) they can utilize 
some of their speedy receivers. O.J. Anderson is 
one of the better running backs in football and is 
quite unerrated. The defense is solid with a good 
secondary and front four that led the league in 
sacks last season. If St. Louis plays its Cards 
right (no pun intended), it could wind up in the 
playoffs.
Dallas-V>ith the quarterback controversy 
raging on, no one seems to notice the real prob­
lems in Dallas. With a defensive line with aver­
age age 32.5 years, an acute shortage of 
linebackers, and a shaky secondary the defense 
doesn’t look good. With a receiving corps 
depleted by trades, retirement and injury, a 
mediocre offensive line and a question mark at 
quarterback, the offense doesn’t look much bet­
ter. The Cowboys are no longer a shoo-in for 
post-season play, although they can’t be 
counted out either.
New York Giants- The Giants are a strong 
defensive team, led by big number 56 Lawrence 
Taylor, but the offense still hasn’t proven itself. 
If Phil Simms can play good all year at quarter­
back the Giants could be in the thick of things, 
but he’ll need help from an offensive line that 
gave up 49 sacks last year. In addition the Giants 
must hold on to the bail. Last year they turned it 
over 58 times to lead the league in that 
department.
Philadelphia- The Eagles are at a low right 
now, after being in the Super Bowl in 1980. It 
looks like at least two years until they’ll have a 
contender. With a healthy Montgomery things 
look bad; without him things look worse. The 
only bright spots are the speed at wide receiver 
and good linebacking with Jerry Robinson and 
Anthony Griggs. Otherwise, things don’t look
gtx)d for the Eagles.
NFC Central
Chicago- The NFC Central is another division 
that could be won by any one of three teams but 
with Walter Payton running well and Willie 
Gault speeding through the opposition’s secon­
dary, Chicago could take the division. If the 
young offensive line can play consistently and 
the defense can do the same, the Bears just
might pull it off.
Detroit- If the Lions had someone solid at 
quarterback they could probably take the div­
ision, but they don’t, so they probably won't. 
Detroit has a great running attack with Billy 
Sims and James Jones, but no passing game. On 
defense the Lions gave up the fewest points in 
the NFC last year. The Lions have a young 
team, which may hrt them, but they could very 
continued on page 16
¦ #—mi « ¦ m n
TARTAN
TARTAN
TARTAN
TARTAN
TARTAN
TARTAN
TARTAN
Interested in working for 
a college newspaper? 
Come to the
Meeting for 
NEW PEOPLE!
tonight at 7 p.m. 
Ski bo Room 12

---------------------------------------------------

September 18, 1984—The Tartan—Page 15
New coaches takeover
By JOHN FRIEDMANN and 
DAVID KATZ
Tartan Stafftcriterg
it is unusual for a team coming off a 
championship season to have a new coach. It 
is even more unusual for a team that has won 
two years in a row. But that is exactly the 
case with the CMU field hockey team. Joan 
Maser, who led the Tartans to a 15-10 overall 
record and twoPennwood West Conference 
championships during her three year term as 
coach, was promoted last spring to assisant 
women’s athletic director, thus creating a 
need for a new coach.
That new coach is Jan McDowell. 
Although this will be her first season at 
CMU, she has 12 years of coaching expe­
rience already under her belt. Her first 
coaching assignment was as an assistant 
while doing graduate work for her master’s 
degree of science at Ohio University during 
1968 and 1969. While at OU, she coached 
Anita Miller, who plays on the US Olympic 
field hockey team. Her first stint as a head 
coach was at Eastern Michigan University 
from 1970 to 1975, after which she moved 
on to Pitt, where she held the reins from 
1976 through 1979.
McDowell is a native Pittsburgher, and 
attended North Hills High School. But, sur­
prisingly, she didn’t get involved with field 
hockey until a freshman at Ohio University 
where she was required to take a class in the 
sport. ”1 didn’t even know what the ball or 
the stick looked like,” she laughs, "but then 
I saw it was a sport that I wanted to become 
involved in.” She became a standout, being 
honored three times as an All-Buckeye 
player and being selected as a senior for the 
All-Great Lakes field hockey team. Field 
hockey isn’t McDowell’s only sport - she also 
played right-center field for the Wilkinsburg 
East End Debs softball team in their cham­
pionship years of 1970 and 1971.
Asked for impressions of the team, coach 
McDowell characterizes them as "dedicated 
and hardworking,” and noted that the play­
ers have "a good sense of teamwork.” The 
coach, however, demands much from her
LIBRARYASSISTANCE
There’s free tax help at most 
local libraries including 
audio tapes to take you 
step-by-step through 
completion of your tax 
return, a reference set 
of the IRS free publica­
tion series, and repro­
ducible tax forms.
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mom to
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at621-1988
Pregnant? Call AT ALet’s talk about your options
Canng and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420Washington, PA 225 6494 
Alternative« to Abortion, Inc.
t mnprnfc* v*snu,<*«r>
team. She expects them to perform and to 
stay in top physical condition. Co-captain 
Maryann Sacco says that attitude has 
resulted in team members working more out­
side of practice to stay in shape. Freshman 
Sara Faye noted that McDowell’s extensive 
background as a player, coach and referee 
was a bonus for the team. For example, 
stated Faye, "she is able to make the drills 
resemble game situations, which helps once 
the season begins.” Commenting on the rela­
tionship between the players and McDowell, 
Faye noted that the coach’s attitude was 
"very supportive.”
This year, the CMU tennis teams will have 
a new coach. Replacing Mark Bush as men’s 
and women’s coach is Minda Fall. Ms. Fall is 
no stanger to Pittsburgh or tennis.
Ms. Fall began her competitive tennis 
career at Taylor-Alberdice High School. She 
was very successful as during all four years 
of high school she was a city champion. In 
addition, while in her senior year, Ms. Fall 
made it to the doubles finals in the state 
tournament.
Following high school, Ms. Fall enrolled 
at Penn State. She played both singles and 
doubles on varsity for two years.
Since college, Ms. Fall has been a teaching 
pro at various clubs, in addition to being the 
assistant tennis coach at Chatham College 
for the last four years. She took the job at 
CMU because the school has "excellent 
teams,” and because she wanted to "be a 
part of the University.”
In addition to being a fine tennis coach, 
Ms. Fall is also a nationally ranked squash 
player. She is ranked third in the nation in 
the Women’s "C” category
Two Tartan runners on the way to victory.
photo by Duane oalbi
CMU runners keep rolling
By DUANE GALBI
Tartan Staffwriter
The Cross-Country team opened its sea­
son last Saturday with two easy wins against 
Bethany and Duquesne University. 
Duquesne was shut-out by the Tartan harri­
ers as CMU was able to place nine runners 
before the first Duquesne finisher crossed 
the line. Bethany was only able to field three 
out of the five runners necessary for a team, 
so CMU defeated them by default.
Allegheny came to the triangular meet to 
run against CMU for practice, even though 
they are no longer in the PAC. Before 
Allegheny left the conference for the compe­
tition of NCAA Division II, they were one of 
the Tartans’ toughest competitors. How­
ever, as they have done for the last five 
years, the Tartan harriers overcame Allegh­
eny. This time the score was a relatively 
close 22 to 38 in CMU’S favor.
Join the Chicken Underground at Chicken Charlies
(Headquartered under the Sheetz on the comer of Oakland and Forbes Ave.)
People all over Oakland are going underground to Chicken Charlies. And once you taste our fried chicken you won’t be able to resist joining them. Because Chicken Charlies makes the best southern fried chicken you’ll ever encounter. We use big, juicy pieces of chicken, coat them in a specially seasoned batter and deep fry them to a perfect golden brown.And when you come into Chicken Charlies now through Sept. 14. we’ll give you a Chicken Snack Pack FREE when you buy one for only $1.89. That’s right, buy one Chicken Snack Pack with two pieces of chicken, french fries and a roll and get a second one free. And at Chicken Charlies you can surrender your thirst to over 150 different kinds of beer. It’s all chilled and ready to move out. So for the most delicious fried chicken in Pittsburgh, join the move­ment underground to Chicken Charlies
Buy one
Chicken Snack Pack#l get one
FREE
Offer valid every day after 2 pm until Sept. 14
The corner of Oakland and Forbes Ave. Under the Sheetz
Featuring ove:different Kindsof cold beer to go
Open Daily 10 AM-2 AMover 150
Chicken and Beer Emporium

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 18, 1984
Harriers 
win again
The race was on the Tartans’ home course 
in Schenley Park where the start and finish 
are on Flagstaff Hill and the rest of the race 
is through the park’s trails. The lead pack 
consisting mainly of Allegany runners 
passed the first mile in 5:20 and the two mile 
markin 10:30. The Tartans made their move 
up "three mile hill” (a mile long hill span­
ning the three mile mark).
It was on "three mile hill” that CMU’S 
Bob Dusch, the winner of the race, was able 
to pull away and establish his lead. The Tar­
tans’ Mark Sulecki, Paul Carnine, and Tony 
Scarpelli were also able to move up through 
the field due to their determined hill run­
ning. Sulecki running second until being 
passed near the end finished third while Car- 
nine and Scarpelli finished 4th and 6th 
respectively. Newcomer Duane Galbrone of 
the early leaders faded to eighth to finish out 
the scoring five. Frank Matuszazak finished 
9th and Dean Denowski 10th to round out 
the Tartans’ top seven.
Next week CMU travels to Indiana Univ. 
of Pa. for their first large Invitational meet.
Bears, Cards, Saints surprise picks
AMERICANCANCERSOOETY*
continued from page 14
well find themselves in the playoffs.
Green Bay - The Packers haven’t been con­
sistent in a while, but neither has anyone in the 
NFC Central so they’ve been in the playoff hunt 
and this year should be the sae story. They have 
a good passing game with Lynn Dickey, who 
threw for an NFC record 4,458 yards last year 
throwing to people like James Lofton, John Jef­
ferson and Paul Coffman. The defense, how­
ever, was 28th in the league in yards allowed, 
and new head coach Forrest Gregg will probably 
be trying to change that.
Minnesota- Even with new head coach Les 
Steckel whipping them into shape, the Vikings 
probably won’t be in the hunt in the NFC 
Central this year. With no passing game (no 
receiver caught 30 passes last year) and a medio­
cre running game, the offense won’t be doing 
much. The Vikings do have a good experienced 
defensive line and secondary. Even in this div­
ision where 9-7 gets you to the playoffs, the 
Vikings will be hard pressed to do so.
Tampa Bay- The bad news is the Bucs fin­
ished last last yeart in total yards, first downs 
and yards-per-play, with a 2-14 record. The 
worse news is it doesn’t look much better this 
year. Individuals like LeeRoy Selman, Hugh 
Green, and James Wilder are the few bright 
spots for the Bucs.
NFC West
San Francisco-The 49ers came within three 
points of the Super Bowl last year and they just 
might find themselves there this year. With a 
solid passing game led by Joe Montana and a 
fair running game with Wendell Tyler, the 
offense looks good. If the 49ers can fill some 
gaps on defense, they could find themselves in 
the Super Bowl.
New Orleans- The saints could very well be 
the surprise (or not so surprising) team of the 
year. After a Ram field goal with six seconds left
eliminated the Saints last year, they got Richard 
Todd in hopes of improving the 26th best pass­
ing game in the NFL. If they can establish a 
passing game to accompany their great running 
game (George Rogers and Wayne Wilson 
gained 1,931 yards on the ground to lead the 
NFC) the offense will be in great shape. The 
defense, which was second best in the NFC in 
1983, might even be improved as a result of the 
draft. Jf things-go well, look for the Saints in 
post-season play.
Los Angeles- The Rams look good, but they’ll 
have to work hard to make the playoffs being in 
the NFC west. With a good offensive line lead­
ing the way for Eric Dickerson, the top rusher
in the NFL, the Rams need a good passing game 
to complete the offense. On the other side of the 
coin, the Rams finished 22nd in the league in 
pass defense, 27th in pass-rushing. Unless they 
can establish a pass defense, they won’t be 
repeating their 1983 playoff appearance.
Atlanta- The Falcons finished 25th in the 
league in overall defense last year, allowing a 
club record 5,826 yards. The offense looks fine 
with the NFC’s leading passer in 1983 and 
maybe the best all-around back in the game in 
Bartkowski and William Andrews. But with a 
defense that had seven rookies last year and has 
eight new rookies this year, the Falcons may not 
be able to do much in the NFC west this year.
photo courtesy Street and Smith’s 
With quarterback Neil Lomax at the helm, the Cardinals could surprise some 
teams this year.
bEAt>L I ME. TO ? 
REGISTE^'.
».
OCTf
T “ ft.*»* «u» r
Register to Vote! FRIDAY, September 28 llam-2pm Skibo Lobby
The League of Women Voters will be 
available to ask questions
Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities
INTERVIEWING - WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT?
1. How do you prepare for the campus interview?
2. What happens in the campus interview . . . What information 
do employers look for... How is it obtained ... How is it used?
3. What happens after the campus interview . . . How to follow 
up... How to handle a plant or office visit?
These and other questions will be answered in a seminar <
? TO BE HELD ON THURSDAY,
? SEPTEMBER 20,1984 at 7:30 P.M.
? IN THE BALLROOM IN SKIBO
PANELISTS INCLUDE:
William J. Kucker, rca
Al Merry, xerox corporation 
John Masserio, general motors corporation
ALL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ARE URGED TO ATTEND.
Career Services and Placement 
Carnegie-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

THISTLE
A TRADITION 
THAT BEGAN A 
LONG TIME AGO
ON SALE 
September 25-27 (Tu-Th)
9:30 — 5:30
Skibo Grey Matter
funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Students void influence in failing to vote
Students at CMU spend four or more years 
and at least $48,000 on education. Some con­
sider it a sound monetary investment, while 
others hope to educate themselves to contrib­
ute something to society. Most are here for 
both these reasons.
Yet, very few take even an hour, spending no 
money, to accomplish the same goals using 
another method: the vote.
Federal, state and local politicians take 40% 
of our paychecks for various programs and 
interest payment. Americans would do just 
about anything to get a 40% salary increase. 
But only 20% of students take five minutes to 
register; let alone vote. Abstinence from vot­
ing is a statement of apathy as to where that 
money goes or whether or not the amount of 
money taxed stays the same. Politicians are
now accountable to the few who vote. Natu­
rally, they can ignore those who don’t: includ­
ing the young.
Which brings us to issues. Money aside, 
politicians have passed many laws recently 
affecting students:
• Student financial aid has been drastically 
cut the past four years.
• Students have been subject to draft regis­
tration for six years, and financial aid to those 
not registering has been eliminated for two 
years.
• A bill penalizing states without a drinking 
age of 21 easily passed both houses of congress 
this year.
Whether or not you agree with the above 
legislation, you as a student had little control 
over it. Large groups of students lobbied
against each bill but were ignored. Politicians 
are able to sit back and ignore student-aged 
people because they don’t vote.
This election year residents of Pennsylvania 
are faced with levers for President and Vice- 
President of the United States and Attorney 
General, Auditor General, Treasurer and dis­
trict Representative of Pennslyvania. In addi­
tion, voters in Districts 14, 18, 20 and 22 
choose a U.S. Representative, and voters in 
Districts 43, 45 and 47 pick their state Senator.
Students at CMU are eligible to register to 
vote in Pittsburgh, while those wishing to stay 
involved in home politics can obtain an absen­
tee ballot by calling a hotline at 355-4540. 
Registration cards are available at Skibo Infor­
mation desk or the Student Senate office. Reg- 
ister by October 9, and vote November 6.The Libertarian Alternative
Government abridges First Amendment rights
By Dan Tobias
The subject of this column is censorship.
The First Amendment to the Constitution 
states "Congress shall make no law . . . 
abridging the freedom of speech or the 
press.” Thus, it would seem 
jJBr government has no right to
rfjr impose censorship or punish
anybody for what he publishes, 
under any circumstances.
This is in marked contrast to the system in 
such countries as the Soviet Union, where 
people can be thrown in jail for saying some­
thing the government doesn’t like. Freedom 
of press is rightly called one of the most 
important elements of the American system. 
Unfortunately, the press in America is not as 
free as you might think. Government has 
imposed censorship in many instances.
A recent example is the attempt, fortu­
nately overruled by the courts, by the Mayor 
of Pittsburgh to ban an issue of Hustler mag­
azine. The reason for the Mayor’s objection 
to that particular issue was that it used cer­
tain Christian religious symbols in what 
most people would regard extremely poor 
taste. However, I don’t see how that justifies 
the government banning it. If the govern­
ment has the right to ban anything offending 
a religious group, then not only the free 
press section of the First Amendment but 
also the section prohibiting government 
establishment of religion, is violated.
If the Hustler ban were to be upheld by the 
courts, local governments might see fit to 
ban any book, magazine, or other document 
purporting to challenge any aspect of any 
religion’s belief.
As a matter of fact, some towns have in 
the past attempted to ban issues of National 
Lampoon which parodied religious subjects. 
Thus, while I agree with the majority that 
Hustler magazine is disgusting, I simply 
express my preference by not buying it. I 
don’t try to prevent other people from 
spending their own money on it if that is 
what they want.
Censorship of the movie industry pro­
vides more examples of government inter­
vention in free expression. In 1908 the 
mayor of New York attempted to ban cine­
mas altogether. In 1912 Congress banned 
from interstate commerce any film depicting 
a prize fight. (This was purportedly to pre­
vent racial disturbances following the vic­
tory of black Jack Johnson over white Jim 
Jeffries). This law remained in effect until 
1940. (If it hadn’t been repealed, perhaps we 
would have been spared Rocky /through III).
Many other bizarre laws were passed over 
the decades. For a while married couples 
were required to be shown sleeping in separ­
ate beds at least 18 inches apart. This, how­
ever, was the fault of the British; American
filmmakers complied with it due to the lucra­
tive market for their films in England. In 
general, England has had even stricter cen­
sorship laws than the U.S., perhaps due to 
their lack of a written constitution explicitly 
granting freedom of press.
At present there is fortunately a minimum 
of government-imposed regulation of non- 
pornographic films; the government is 
apparently satisfied with the Hollywood 
industry’s voluntary letter rating system.
However, porno films such as Deep Throat 
are still subject to continued harrassment by 
government in many localities. People just 
can’t seem to realize that just because they 
feel something is obscene doesn’t mean they 
have a right to stop others from seeing it. 
They point to something called "community
standards” that oppose such things but con­
veniently ignore that these porno theaters 
would not even exist if there weren’t a large 
enough number of people who want to see 
that kind of movie that the theater can make 
a profit. Most likely, more people attend 
X-rated films than the opera, but nobody 
suggests that the opera be outlawed simply 
because it does not appeal to "community 
taste”.
The free market gauges "community 
taste” better than any politician or judge 
can, by the simple fact that if nobody likes 
something, nobody will pay to see it. How­
ever, it is not necessary, or even desirable, 
that some book, movie or other form of 
expression command the approval of a 
majority of the public in order for it to be
made publicly available. A free society can 
accomodate the desires of a diverse group of 
individuals. You go your way, and I’ll go 
mine; there is no conflict if neither of us 
attempts to forcibly suppress some peaceful, 
voluntary activity of the other. Go to the 
opera, a Michael Jackson concert, Ghostbus- 
ters or Deep Throat, but don’t force others to 
go along with your choice.
Next week I will examine some areas of 
government censorship which are in com­
pletely different areas from the "obscenity” 
issue. Many government agencies have got­
ten into the act of determining what people 
should be allowed to read or publish, and I 
will recount a few such examples.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math and 
is a columnist for The Tartan.
Moskowitz redefines left and right
By David Moskowitz
With the election approaching, you’ll be 
hearing the terms "left” and "right” fre­
quently, usually in degrees such as "far 
right,” "left of center” etc. In examining
/what these terms mean, a cur- 
JJ ious paradox arises; there is no
Il difference between the two.
"Left" and "right” are usus- 
ally associated with a political belief. Taking 
the conventional meanings of the terms, one 
can abstract a line, the left end being com­
munism, the right being fascism.
My dictionary defines communism as "a 
totalitarian system of government in which a 
single authoritarian party controls state- 
owned means of production with the pro­
fessed aim of establishing a stateless 
society.”
Fascism is defined as "a political philo­
sophy that exacts nation and race above the 
individual and stands fo a central autocratic 
government headed by a dictatorial leader, 
severe economic and social regulation, and 
forcible supression of opposition.”
They both extol absolute, state power 
over individual choice and freedom. To illus­
trate this, ask yourself which definition the 
Soviet Union falls under. How are these 
beliefs different? They are not. They are two 
versions of statism with the same goals; 
power and conquest. The only difference is 
the fascists are more honest. What has been 
set up is a straight line in which either direc­
tion leads to the same point.
It is no wonder that America is said to lie 
in the center. No other choice is open to us. 
Conventional wisdom seems to have led us 
to some delicate balance between two evils. 
Avoiding all extreme beliefs (look where 
such beliefs lead) we have achieved our so- 
called "mixed economy”, a mixture of regu-
lations and freedoms, a compromise of 
everone to everyone. Is this an ideal state? 
No, since it represents no consistent belief.
There is a belief which is given no position 
on our line. It is sometimes placed on the 
right but is certainly not related to fascism. 
This belief is Libertarianism, best described 
as Laissez-faire capitalism. Maybe the choice 
isn’t really between communism and fas­
cism, but between two truly diametrically 
opposed beliefs; statism and capitalism. I am 
not advocating one belief or the other, but 
am illustrating an alternative way of viewing 
the political spectrum.
Does this change radically redefine the 
way we view mainstream politics? No. Liber­
als are still on the left and conservatives are 
still on the right, the criteria being their 
views toward big government.
But it is now possible to bring out some of 
the inconsistancies in each party. When 
conservatives advocate state induced morals 
and oppose abortion they are advocating sta-
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar­
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of indwtdual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer­
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer’s address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan resemes 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
tist policy. The point is not that conserva­
tives don’t really know theil own beliefs. The 
point is that such "moral” legislation is sta­
tist in nature.
Liberals should note that it seems unreas­
onable to expand individual freedom (their 
"goal”) through .statist policy (their 
actions). Observe the notion of a "right- 
wing death squad” is a contradiction in 
continued on page 20
TheTarfc>n.
Editor in Chief........................................Kic Medrow
Managing Editor.....................................Mark Levine
Business Manager.........................Neil J. Greenblum
News Editor.............................Christopher D. Lewis
Features Editor..............................Neal W. Johnston
Entertainment Editor..........................Adam Hanin
Sports Editor..............................................Scott Bozic
Photography Editor...........T............Mike Pilewski
Production Manager..................Michele Reisinger
Ad Manager...............................................Steve Volan
Typesetting Manager.. .........................Jill Clelland
Contributing Editor..........................Pauline Wen
Asst EnL Editor...............................Lesley Brunker
Assc. Business Manager........................Bonnie Topf
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Peter Bain, Don 
Kggert, Tina Hatchl, Duane Galbi, Dorothy Lim, 
Rebecca Neimark
Copyright ® 1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it 
deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, 
(412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, (412) 578- 
2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing address: Box 
17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee.
AU right« reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 18,1984—The Tartan—Page 19
Letters:
CMU misplaces priorities
Editor:
I read with dismay the front-page story 
"CMU bids on $103M DOD project,” in the 
Sept. 12 issue of The Tartan. Having just 
read the last-page story, "Ryan Award 
Winners Recommend Renovation of Educa­
tional Facilities” in the September issue of 
Focus, I felt that, once again,I was seeing a 
depressing example of the administration’s 
preoccupation with glamorous computer 
projects and their relative lack of concern 
for educational fundamentals.
Before explaining this point, I would like 
to quote the faculty recommendations in the 
Focus article, for the convenience of readers 
who may have missed it. The faculty recom­
mended that CMU :
— Establish a standing committee to advise 
and assist in the planning and design of edu­
cational facilities . . . [composed of] people 
who have broad knowledge of educational 
facility needs within their colleges and the 
university as a whole.
— Designate one administrator as a "class­
room Czar” responsible for coordinating 
classroom maintenance.
— Add enough additional money to theEqual TimeFeminist disgusted by prejudice
By Lesley Brunker
At first I chalked it up to spring. Days 
were warm, coats discarded, car windows 
rolled down, and to borrow a phrase, hor­
mones were carbonated.
It had been a long cold winter. 
In my general state of well being, 
I didn’t mind an occasional whis­
tle from a passing guy.
That has changed. Maybe it was just a 
long, hot summer. Maybe it was my room­
mates’ being chased by an unidentified per­
vert. Maybe it was the six City of Pittsburgh 
workers who verbally harassed me on my 
way to the Foodland this morning, leaving 
me choked with degredation and 
helplessness.
Despite ERA, women’s lib, NOW, and a 
female vice-presidential candidate, men and 
women are not treated as equals. I found 
graphic examples in the attitudes of lawyers
The Greek View
in the firm at which I was employed this 
summer.
They were "the men”, we were patronis- 
ingly referred to as "the girls” — not "the 
women” — though the relative ages were 
about equal. I was shocked to silence when 
one of these enlightened men of education 
asked me if I planned to vote for "Fritz and 
tits.”
It was a minor culture shock to return to 
CMU, where men and women are equals — 
for the most part. There is of course the tale 
of the random business or engineering major 
who relished the number of women in his 
department because "then my degree will be 
all the more valuable while they’re home 
raising babies,” or the personalized invita­
tion we received to a fraternity social just for 
having our obviously female names on our 
mailbox door.
By and large, the CMU community is a far
cry from the real world. There are far fewer 
incidences of verbal harassment. In fact 
most male students seem to have a hard time 
comprehending just how difficult it can be 
for a female to walk down a city street. In a 
"high-tech and sciences” atmosphere, the 
problems that are real in middle-America are 
miles away.
But it is institutions such as ours that can 
make a difference for the future. The atti­
tudes of CMU faculty are reflected by stu­
dent treatment and course offerings as well 
as attitudes of students toward peers of both 
genders. Students are tomorrow’s leaders — 
how they vote, what practices and opinions 
they accept and reject, will make a 
difference.
Lesley Brunker is a junior in creative writing 
and is both Assistant Entertainment Editor and 
columnist for the Tartan.
Student relates Rush experience
By Don George
Before I came to CMU, I already had some 
idea of what Greek life would be like. My 
brother was in a fraternity, and he told me 
stories of his pledging. For example, he told 
f of the time when he was locked 
in the fraternity safe for over an 
hour. He tried to reassure me by 
stating that at least they drilled a 
hole for air. I thought "Great! My brother 
leaves for college a normal guy and comes 
back like John Belushi.” I knew I would 
never join a fraternity.
As the case was, when I did get here, I 
found I really enjoyed Rush. I went to 
almost every fraternity and met a lot of peo­
ple. The guys on my floor last year accused 
me of knowing half of the campus.
Rush, even if you do not pledge, is a great 
way of meeting people. I still remember the 
first party I attended. I was given a tour of 
the house and introduced to several broth­
ers. I definitely thought this was the place 
for me. My friends tried to take me into my 
present fraternity for a beer, but I said "No 
way! L)ok at all the losers here.” After talk­
ing with the brothers for a while, I realized 
they weren’t losers. I would not have known 
t how great my brothers are if I had never
gone there during Rush.
I guess by now you know the moral of this 
story. Come to Rush, you just may change 
your mind about the Greek system. Go to all 
the houses so you can get a feeling for every 
individual house. Don’t go on what other
people tell you. If you want to meet new 
people, come to the Quad. That’s where all 
the action is.
The Greek View is a weekly column in The 
Tartan written in coordination with Interfrater­
nity Council.
çttqqo /w k wwss \
wa y» oka \j
im/vm swt>
Jr\ ( r ¿V
l 1/ jMf 1 ilr Oj "
ifpÇA»/* TyJ&WAW Mto lEZj00, M&L8PÔÊ! SWÊTHÊ;/v * «!IfiiiNUMZNÜf ÎW \ no awce rat nfe , % (Ipw»»-\ ^ TT
sums now projected for major renovations in 
classrooms to renew and equip four lecture 
halls a year for each of the next four years. 
Each hall should have one or more features, 
such as . . . demonstration-lecture capabili­
ties, double screens for slides or overhead 
projectors, or electronic blackboards, suita­
ble to the needs of the faculty members who 
utilize them . . .
— Place at the top of the priority list for 
capital improvements on campus the build­
ing of three new lecture halls, one seating 
from 350 to 400 persons and the other two 
seating about 150 each. Each of these halls 
should receive a full complement of sophisti­
cated instructional equipment.
— Increase annual budget expenditures for 
audio-visual and graphic delivery and pro­
duction services in order to encourage their 
use for educational purposes ... equipment 
should be delivered, operated, and picked up 
without charges to departments . . .
— Increase allocations for library acquisi­
tions annually in order to keep somewhat 
ahead of rapidly escalating book prices, 
which exceed the inflation rate each year.
— Develop a specific plan to consolidate 
and upgrade the facilities of the College of 
Fine Arts. In addition to the present CFA 
building, consolidation will require a second 
building . .. This facility should receive one 
of the highest priorities in the capital budget
— Develop detailed plans to upgrade edu­
cational laboratories and place this upgrad­
ing high on the priority list for capital
continued on page 20
President urges more involvement
By Bill McCormick
Early fall is a relaxed time around CMU. 
The workload hasn’t gotten too bad, tests (or 
at least their results) are another week awav, 
the weather is nice, and parties are every­
where. hile this atmosphere is 
>nice for returning to school and 
| getting back in the working 
habit, I submit that there is 
something missing - permanence. While it is 
fun, it does not last for long. Therefore, I’d 
like to refresh your memory about some 
ways to gain permanence at CMU bv doing 
things that will outlive vour stav here.
1. Register to vote. The nation's destinv 
for the next four years will be decided in 
large part by the outcome of November's 
election. The Student Senate, Residence 
Life, and the Skibo Info Desk all have infor­
mation about how to register or cast an 
absentee ballot. Registering and voting are 
well worth one-half hour of vour time.
2. Become involved with a campus organi­
zation. Many groups, clubs and teams exist 
here at CMU. If there is not one that suits 
your interest, start your own! Details about 
every campus organization are available at 
the Skibo Info Desk, but I'll touch on some 
below:
STUDENT SENATE - The Student 
Government on campus. Senate controls the 
purse of the vast majority of campus organi­
zations. More importantly. Senate resolves 
student concerns about all areas of campus 
life - from academia to social gatherings. See 
the ad in this Tartan for election informa­
tion.
SDC - Anyone living in university hous­
ing can belong if they get 25 people to sign a 
petition. You would be involved with plan-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—September 18, 1984
Administration misplaces money priorities
continued from page 18
expenditures.
I think we can all agree these recommen­
dations are appropriate and should be imple­
mented without delay. Most of them, 
however, involve money — money allocated 
above the departmental and college levels. 
We have all heard that despite the astronom­
ical tuition and Spartan facilities, money is 
in short supply at CMU. In fact, CMU is 
planning a $100 million capital funds drive, 
presumably to cover such projects as build­
ing new auditoriums and a new CFA facility.
Yet somehow, CMU has a spare "$5-8 
million in resources" for the SEI. What are 
these resources? Do they represent the 
value of the site at Fifth Avenue and South 
Dithridge streets? If not, what do they 
represent? Do they include money that 
could be used to renovate classrooms and 
laboratories?
Nowhere in The Tartan article do I find 
any specific mention of what the SEI could 
contribute to CMU. It will attract 250 high- 
tech jobs — but will it bring any money into 
the budget? Will it ease the strain on other, 
over-used facilities? Will it have any facili­
ties at all that CMU students can use?
I was particularly struck by the fact that 
CMU has a provost "who heads the team
Left and right
reconsidered
terms since the use of government force is a 
statist policy. Such death squads should not 
be associated with those rightists who 
oppose statism.
As a final illustraion, isn’t it true that if 
the goal of communism is elimination of the 
state they are headed in the wrong direction. 
We do live in a world where the shortest 
distance between two points is a straight 
line.
seeking to attract the SEI.” Yet no member 
of the Administration at any level has 
responsibility for coordinating classroom 
maintenance.
As the faculty report notes, the sub­
standard educational facilities have a more 
profound effect than the day-to-day irrita­
tions of using them:
During the next decade, elite uni­
versities such as CMU must compete 
for a diminishing pool of talented stu­
dents. Many of these students come 
from secondary schools whose educa­
tional facilities are superior to some of 
those they find at CMU. Universities 
and many colleges, including a large 
number of institutions of second and 
third rank, generally have a number of 
facilities far superior to those at CMU. 
Education facilities play a vital role in 
the recruitment process. If we wish to 
increase our chances of recruiting 
excellent students from the diminish­
ing student pool, we should provide 
the facilities on a par with those of 
rival institutions.
Perhaps members of the administration 
are lulled by CMU’s current record of suc­
cess in employing its graduates — here I 
refer to the story on page 5 of the Sept. 12
Unibedway
Tartan, "Upward trend continues: CMU 
employment rises.” Yet prospective stu­
dents and their parents are hardly likely to 
receive a favorable impression of the fine 
H&SS curriculum referred to in that story, 
when they tour Baker and Porter Halls and 
see the filthy tile walls and stairwells, the 
scruffy restrooms, the dingy classrooms and 
unpainted window frames. I’m not talking 
about expensive lab facilities here; I’m talk­
ing about basic cleanliness. When were 
those walls last cleaned? Nor are left-handed 
students likely to feel that the school has 
their education at heart when they cannot 
find left-handed desks in the classrooms. In 
over two years of attending classes in Baker 
and Porter Halls, I have yet to find a left- 
handed desk.
Perhaps in the future, when prospective 
students and their parents visit campus, 
should they tour the SEI? I’ll bet its walls 
and windows will be kept clean and repaired. 
I’ll bet its rooms will have adequate furni­
ture. If the SEI has a library, I predict it will 
have an adequate budget. Its labs and lecture 
facilities will no doubt be the finest. What a 
consolation for those of us who won’t be 
using it.
At the bottom of page 1 of the Sept. 12 
Tartan, I found an article headlined,
Correction
Several photos in the September 12 issue 
of The Tartan were miscredited. All photos 
on page 15 were taken by Erik Horn, the 
soccer photo on page 17 by Mike Kelly, the 
volleyball photo on page 18 by George Spof- 
ford and the I.M. field on page 25 by Colin 
Rafferty.
"Kiesler to take Provost position at Vander­
bilt.” Well, good luck and God speed, Dr. 
Kiesler, say I. Maybe at Vanderbilt Dr. 
Kiesler will be able to respond positively to 
faculty requests for upgraded teaching facili­
ties. Maybe at Vanderbilt he will even get to 
work in a clean building.
Meanwhile, at CMU the administration 
continues to worship the computer.
Peggy Kantz
Involvement
important
continued from page 19
as solving problems with housing and food 
ning dances, films, trips, and parties, as well 
service.
GREEKS - Going through rush is a good 
experience for anyone. There are many 
advantages to being Greek, but it certainly 
isn’t for everyone. Personally, I’ve found 
my involvement with the Pi Kappa Alpha 
fraternity to be one of the most rewarding 
experiences of my twenty-one years.
AB - If you like to plan events, this may 
well be the organization for you. Virtually 
every campus-wide event involves part of 
the Activities Board.
3. Get involved with organizations outside 
the campus. No need to belabor this point. 
Every group from the League of Women 
Voters to the American Cancer Society 
wants your help.
Take the time - get involved. You may find 
that an hour per week that you devote to an 
activity will yield you much more than five 
hours of "just hanging out". See you at the 
club meetings.
Bill McCormick is President of Student Govern­
ment and writes a weekly column for The 
Tartan.
Meet and talk with representatives from the area’s many arts organizations:
Chamber Music Society 
Pittsburgh Ballet
Pittsburgh Opera
Pittsburgh Dance CouncilPittsburgh Public Theatre
Pittsburgh Center 
for the ArtsCarnegie Institute
Carnegie-Mellon 
Drama Dept.sponsored by Office of Student Activities
11 a.m. 
Skibo Lobby

---------------------------------------------------

Finies. !Joe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
PoindexterBy Maszle and Beyer
X HAVE “TÖ VWT^ A looo
ON ONc OF Tweçr
ByHeratCMMMM
The Student Government Corporation 
of Camegie-Mellon University 
cordially invites you to a 
Student Senate Reception 
immediately following 
the regular Senate meeting 
this Tuesday, September eighteenth 
nineteen hundred and eighty-four 
at seven p.m. sharp 
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
regrets only 578-2115 funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Procter & Gamble
TECHINICAL CAREER SEMINAR 
From 1-4 p.m., Wednesday, September 19th
Skibo Room 12
DIVISIONS REPRESENTED:
Product Research & Development 
Engineering Development 
Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
Aiding in career planning and career changing 
will be the focus of the University of Pittsburgh’s 
annual Career Seminar Series, Oct. 1-4 in the 
University’s William Pitt Union Assembly 
Room.
Sponsored by Pittsburgh’s Counseling and 
Student Development Center, the four-day 
seminar will acquaint individuals to an array of 
career choices related to their education and 
experience. Moreover, the seminar will provide 
an opportunity to gain an understanding of the 
necessary qualifications for entry into various 
fields of interest.
If there are any questions or if you would be 
interested in talking with any of the participants, 
please call Marcia E. Jones at (412) 624-4148.
The Insitiute for Humane Studies is proud to 
announce the 1985-86 Claude Lambe Fellowship 
program.Fellowships will be awarded based on 
the applicant’s academic performance, interest in 
classical liberal ideas, and potential for an intel­
lectual career. The Lambe Fellowship competi­
tion is open to all qualified students regardless of 
race, religion, color, sex, age, military service, 
handicap, national or ethnic origin. Deadline for 
applications: Jan. 15, 1986. For application 
packets and further information, write Walter E. 
Grinder, Vice President for Acadmeic Programs, 
Claude R. Lambe Fellowship Program, Institute 
for Humane Studies, P.O. Box 1149, Menlo Park, 
CA 94026.
The National Research Council announces 
the 1985 Postdoctoral, Resident,and Cooperative 
Research Associateship Programs for research in 
the sciences and engineering to be conducted in 
behalf of 21 federal agencies or research instituti­
ons,whose laboratories are located throughout 
the United States.
Applications to the National Research Council 
must be postmarked no later than January 15, 
1985. Initial awards will be announced in March 
and April followed by awards to alternates alter.
Information on specific research opportunities 
and federal laboratories, as well as application 
materials, may be obtained from Associateship 
Programs, Office of Scientific and Engineering 
Personnel, JH 608-D3, National Research Coun­
cil, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washing­
ton, D.C. 20418, (202) 334-2760.
Do you have any comments, criticism, or sug­
gestions about anything academic (courses, TA’s, 
profs)? Tell us, the Academic Affairs Committee 
on Student Senate. Talk with a committee 
member on Mondays 2:30—3:30, Thursdays 
4:30-6:30, or come to our meetings Mondays at 
8:00 pm in the Student Senate office, Skibo 59.
The groups of Professional Women on Cam­
pus is having an organizational meeting on 
Thursday, September 20, in Skibo 12, from 12-1 
pm. All interested women are urged to attend. 
The format will be open, so that everyone’s ideas 
about this new group can be expressed. Brown 
bag; beverages will be served.
An announcement. . . ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
National Service Fraternity, Meetings Every Wed­
nesday, 8:30 p. m., Skibo Highlander Room.
Learn how to study, take a four hour session 
study skills workshop sponsored by Counseling 
and Student Development Center, Tuesdays 
Sept. 25 to Oct. 16. Major topics will be: time 
management, study methods, relaxation tech­
niques, study motivation and exam preparation. 
Register at Morewood Gardens, E-Tower Room 
103 or call 578-2922, 8:30 am — 5:00 pm.
classifieds
For Sale: Phase Linear 8000MK2 turntable 
$325. Optonica Analog Tuner $125. Call 683- 
8988 evenings, late.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one 
bedroom, remodeled with new kitchen and bath. 
Ideal for two students to share. Only $340 per 
month, including utilities. CMU shuttlebus ser­
vice at front door. 682-7010.
Edgewood condo. 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, w/w 
carpeting, a/c, appliances, 1st floor. $69,900. 
242-8825.
Babysitting: I can babysit for your child in my 
Morewood Avenue home. Anytime. Well- 
educated, responsible, mature. Reasonable rate. 
Call 687-8159.
Looking for Strat-o players to form various 
sports leagues. Jerry 571-0124.
Exotic Dancers — Entertainment for parties, 
male and female dancers. Stripper-grams. 931- 
3255.
Government jobs. $16,559 — $50,553/year. 
Now hiring. Your area. Call (805) 687-6000, ext. 
R-5563.
Meet interesting people. Play backgammon at 
The College Club. North Craig St. in Oakland at 
7:00 pm every Friday night starting September 7.
Mature person available for housecleaning. 
Experienced and responsible. Call after 3 pm. 
647-2450.
Oakland — for rent immediately — large 2- 
bedroom furnished, remodeled apartment 1 block 
from university. $410 + electricity. 655-1872 
after 5 pm.
Women: over 25? In school? New career plans? 
Join Academic Bag Ladies over lunch 12—1:30 
Thursdays — 4515 Forbes Ave. Info: 682-6886.
Will type term papers, resumes, etc. at reasona­
ble rates.Call Mary Ann at 462-5932.
Mailing labels with names and addresses fo 
companies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto labels with your "motto” 
on them. Semper Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your motto $5.00. Chicago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 14216.
Wanted — LISP interpreter for IBM-PC. For 
cash or will trade software. Phone Jim 683-0986, 
leave message.
1971 Buick Electra: power steering, brakes, 
windows, air, stereo, good condition, passed 
inspection, $700. Call Ann at 722-5301.
Dr.Leonard PeikofPs 12-lecture course on 
OBJECTIVISM, the philosophy of AYN RAND, 
will be heard on tape in Oakland beginning Wed­
nesday, September 19th. For information call 
Richard Wickline at 648-2364.
A&A Secretarial Service — quality typing, low 
prices, pickup and delivery available. For further 
information call 362-TYPE.
Adoption: Physician and wife, early 30’s, seek to 
adopt white infant. Will pay medical and legal 
expenses. Call collect (301) 252-3075.
COMPUTER USERS: two half-height, double 
sided, double density disk drives. With software, 
installation. $500 for 2 or $275 each.682-1378; 
leave message with name, #, and interest.
HP 41-CX calculator. Best programmable 
around.Alpha-numeric display. With extras. 
5225. 682-1378, leave number.
Rooms for rent in quiet, clean, mostly graduate, 
:o-ed study house. Gigantic room, perfect for 
wo, large room for 1 available. 10 minute walk to 
;ampus. Call 682-1378 and leave a message if I am 
lot in.
For rent. Grad student. 5701 Forbes Avenue. 
Two-bedroom apartment, 2 rooms up, 2 down. 
Yard and storage space. $340, all utilities 
included. 261-1505; 421-9208.
Research Papers!306-page catalog -- 15,278 
topics! Rush $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206M, Los Angeles, 90025, (213)477-8226.
Flowers for sale — Roses $3.95/doz, carnations 
75*, hanging plans $10... more. W/Th/F in front 
of Warner Hall (Forbes Ave.) ALEX’S 
FLOWERS.
miscellaneous
La Table Française, French Language Table, 
Tuesdays at noon, starting September 11, 1984. 
Deutscher Stammtisch, German Language 
Table, Thursdays at noon, starting September 
13, 1984.
Explorer’s Club - Rockclimbing and kayaking 
trips. All welcome. Meetings on Thursdays at 
6:30 in Skibo Room 12.
CaII 57^2921CMU Travel Office
CaI57^ C291e9ie9ce
Skibo 40A
TUTORS
NEEDED
for walk in tutoring service.
Subject Areas:
•Calculus •Chemistry 
•Physics •H&SS Math 
•Biology •Philosophic Methods
High QPA req7ired i9 t7t2ri9g ^7bject
M-Th, 7:00pm-10:00pm $3.50 per hour
contact Dr. Hickey at Counseling Center (x2922).
Lewis’Creative Hair Team
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
682-4063
Mon. - Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals

---------------------------------------------------

STAR
FOUR
Fast FREE Delivery
683-0400
4740 Baum Blvd Oakland—Pgh, PA.
13 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM
P£PP£iONI GROUND CHUCK THICK CRUST HOT PEPPERS OLIVES
SAUSAGE HAM ONIONS ANCHOVIES EXTRA CHEESE
BACONGREEN PEPPERS MUSHROOMS
12”16”Cheese.............. $4.29 ................ $6.08
1 Item.............. 4.98 ......................... 6.98
2 Items............ 5.75 ......................... 7.95
3 Items............ 6.52 ......................... 8.92
4 Items............ 7.29 ......................... 9.89
5 Items............ 8.06 ......................... 10.86
FOUR STAR PIZZA 5 ITEMS FOR THE PRICE OF 4
MCI I |V C PEPPERONI. SAUSAGE. MUSHROOMS ONIONS, green peppers] 
~ MO SUBSTITUTIONS
FREE DELIVERY* WITHIN 30 MIN. 
10 MIN. PICK-UP
STORE HOURS:SUN-THURS 11 AM-2 AM FRI & SAT 11 AM-3 AM
'WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA
SORRY, WE DO NOT ACCEPT 
PERSONAL CHECKS.VALUABLE COUPONS
I
U,pk
ONE COUPON Ptl PIZZA COUPON I
ADOWSS
ki ¦¦ COUPON ¦¦ ¦¦ w COUPON ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦¦ ¦¦ COUPON ¦¦ ¦¦ “¦ ¦¦ COUPON ¦¦ ¦¦
iiNAME AOOKSS
str asopsl pu pveeyCOUPON IXP«*S «IQMT TOLM«lTOUPMllVftVII
rl IB COUPON ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦ COUPON ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦ ¦¦ COUPON iB ¦¦ ¦§ ¦¦
KWJtt* ¦ routs»* * wu*s»* —^ ¦ ¦ FOWStt..
I oKÜb$ ^off J1 mito* 2OFF ¡! 2off i \
^ ANY 16" DELUXE Jj ON ANY 16" PIZZA ON ANY 16" PIZZA ..
IOMONS. ANO QMIN MVPM II ¦¦ ..Iff
-twr ccNr nut »*oe örrs ¦ Btg.g2S 42Fh wBg5 F24U -tg4g2- 4Drh ieoa ars<>Ki)ki « _ • j p
COUPON¦1
phho
NAM(
ON€ COUPON Pi* PIZZA COUPON IXPtKS
*00« SS
ANY PIZZA.
I
juwTvonuwffidnO» (DU
wf MS«»vl THt •»GhT TOl'MlTONC COUPON HI PIZIA COUPON IXP1MS
AOMESS
Wt «St«vf THtmoHT 6g dwcw r 
Ou« I
