ARE YOU A 
CITE? 
WHY NOT?
FOOTBALL DANCE 
SATURDAY 
UNION 9:00 P.M.
I.
VOL. XIX No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1924
T MEMBERSHIP 
CAMPAIGN TO 
START OCT. 8
Committee of Three Hundred 
to Sweep Campus For In­
crease in Enrollment of 
Organization
IS ACTIVE GROUP
Everything is all set for the Y. M. 
C. A. Membership Enrollment to start 
immediately after the assembly on 
October 7. It will continue through 
October 8, 9 and 10, during which 
time the administration hopes to suc­
cessfully complete the drive.
A more complete organization has 
been established for the enrollment 
than has ever before been developed. 
Under the able leadership of “Dick” 
Heed, who is conducting the enroll­
ment, plans have been made so thor­
oughly that no man will be missed. 
He is fortunate in having the follow­
ing able men to take charge of each 
school: "Cal” Lundquist, Arts;
“Phil” Rossbacli, Science; "Tom” An­
drews, Industries.
These men together with a strong 
committee will exert their efforts to 
the utmost to make this enrollment 
the largest on record. The students 
can co-operate with the committee 
and eliminate a great deal of trouble 
by having the money with them on 
the day of the enrollment. On Mon­
day, October G, the committee of 
about three hundred will meet and 
discuss an outline of the enrollment. 
The group will be addressed by Dr. 
Baker and one of the trustees.
Too much cannot be said of the 
activities initiated and controlled by 
the Y. Its influences and benefits are 
felt in every branch of work on the 
campus. It sponsored the Senior 
Counsellor Plan, which is now set 
down as a tradition, and the organi­
zation of the Inter-Fraternity Basket 
Ball League which promotes keen 
rivalry and good fellowship among 
the fraternities, was due to the Y.
The Institute Chapel is entirely un­
der the supervision of the Y, while 
the establishment of the Discussion 
Group, in which students may study 
the vital question of religion, and the 
entertainment of foreign students are 
fostered by it. It’s co-operation with 
the local churches and the installa­
tion of radios for those students un­
fortunate enough to be in a city hos­
pital, have brought much well-earned 
praise from people on and off the 
campus.
Besides “throwing” stag parties and 
entertainments for the students dur- 
(Continued on Page Four)
Puppet’s Next Issue 
To Be Back Number
More Material—Moans Ma­
chiavellian Monthly
Since the appearance of the first 
issue of the Puppet, the staff has 
been hard at work on the second 
number. The title is to be the 
“Back Number’’ and the issue will 
glorify - the genus hominis of that 
nature.
This ye«ar the Puppet’s policy will 
be to make the. publicatipn a really 
representative college comic. The 
staff aims to print humor that has 
to do with colleges and college life. 
The wise cracks of the fraternity 
houses and the faux pas of the class 
room will be immortalized in a man­
ner that only Puppet can. accom­
plish. - .
The staff also wishes to announce 
that there is unlimited opportunities 
for ; underclassmen "who - wish to 
compete for positions on the board 
of the "Monthly Impertinance.” Last 
year the response was almost negli­
gible and as a result a great many 
new men can be used.
Plebes or Sophomores who can 
write or draw are oirged to submit 
their copy at once in order that it 
can be run in the "Back Number.” 
Men desiring to work on the busi­
ness staff should consult the busi­
ness manager immediately.
WILL SOON ORGANIZE 
CLUB FOR BUMMERS
Have you- bummed five hundred 
miles or more? Wouldn’t you like 
to meet and swap yarns writh the 
other fellows at Tech who have also 
felt the liure of the “Broad! High­
way?”
At Penn' State, Ohio State, Ober- 
Hn, Bethany and several other col­
leges there are chapters of a na­
tional bummer's club known as D. 
& N. In order* to be eligible for 
initiation a fellow must have bum­
med a distance of two hundred miles 
after entering college. A total of 
five hundred' miles Is required for 
full membership. All applicants 
must be in good scholastic standing 
and be a “good” fellow. A chapter 
of thi6 “Gentleman Bummers” Club 
will soon be organized at Carnegie. 
Watch The Tartan for further news.
RUSHING PERIOD WILL END
AT MIDNIGHT SATURDAY
Ever since the opening of school 
on September 15 the Plebes have 
mingled with fraternity men on the 
campus and have been entertained by 
them at their respective houses and 
closes at midnight Saturday, Octo­
ber 4.
From then on to noon of the fol­
lowing day will be a period of silence. 
The rushee will signify his choice by 
presenting himself at the house of 
the fraternity of his choice on or af­
ter 12 o’clock Sunday, October 5. 
From then on open rushing will pre­
vail.
PLEBE MENTAL TESTS 
WILL BE GIVEN OCT. 2
Last Year's System Proved 
Satisfactory and Will 
Be Used Again
Mental Tests will be given to Fresh­
men on October 2.
Once each year Mental Tests are 
given to all first year students by the 
Psychology Department. The date 
det for these tests this year is Octo­
ber 2. Freshmen from the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College will be 
asked to report to room 104 Industries 
Building at 1:30 p. m. Freshmen in 
Science and Industries classes will 
report to rooms 209 and 21S in the 
Science Building at the same time. 
•Students should come prepared to re­
main the entire afternoon. The only 
working materials which should be 
brought by the student are two or 
three well sharpened pencils or a 
fountain pen.
The results of these tests have no 
direct bearing upon the admission of 
students to classes nor upon their 
standing in the various colleges. The 
results of the tests are used for the 
purpose of aiding the pupil to adjust 
himself to his courses. The student 
should feel no restraint in taking the 
tests as the use made of the results 
will probably be to his direct benefit.
The te^ls to be used were intro­
duced at this institution last year. A 
comparative study of test results of 
last year and student accomplishment 
in courses is now being made. The 
lesults of this study to date indicate 
that the tests last year were even 
more effective than was anticipated. 
Since the tests now in use here are 
also used at many other institutions, 
it ‘ is possible to. make comparisons 
of the mental quality of students en­
rolled at C. I. T. with students en­
rolled in other institutions.
A mental test Is essentially a sam­
ple of human behavior obtained under 
controlled conditions. The elements 
used in the tests are those which 
have been proved to have merit 
through previous experimentation. 
From the test results It is assumed 
that predictions can be made of what 
a student can do but not necessarily 
what he will do. Most of the test ele- 
(Contlnued on Page Four;
STUDENT DIRECTORY TO 
BE ISSUED IN OCTOBER
'Something new! Of vital interest 
to every person connected with 
Cairnegie Tech! _ Something which 
has been needed at Carnegie ever 
since the school was founded.
¦What? Why, the Carnegie Tech 
Student Directory, of course.
Now that the ice is broken and 
the secret is out -we can begin-- 
just begin—to give you the details.
First, what is it? As its name 
indicates it is a directory and will 
be divided into two major sections— 
one containing the names of all the 
students registered at Carnegie, and 
the other containing the names of 
all the faculty members from Dr. 
Baker down to—well just down.
But wait! There will be more 
;than just names. In addition the di­
rectory will contain the year of 
graduation (if any), college address, 
home city, and finally, but best of 
all-, the college phone number of 
each student—can you imagine that? 
What a long-felt want this little 
book is going to satisfy. What a po­
tent influence!
The girls will be in a section all 
to themselves #and, confidentially 
there wrill be no rules prohibiting 
the tearing out of the girls section 
by. the girls, of the boy’s by the 
boys. The process of making a 
date will be simplified immensely. 
We fellows have a hard time re­
membering 'phone numbers. With 
the names arranged alphabetically, 
simply turn to S—, Smith, Cleopatra, 
and number is there. But of course 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DAY STUDENT’S 
REGISTRATION 
MADE KNOWN
Men Number 1,347, Women 
70 5 With Arts School 
Leading Others in Total 
Number Registered
»ME. KARPOVA’S
AESTHETIC DANCING
CLASSES RESUME-
Aesthotic dancing classes under 
the direction of Madame Karpova 
will again be opened the week of i 
September 2S. The day -class meets 
Saturday at 10 a. m., in the women's 
new gym and the night cluss is held 
on Friday at 7 p. m. in Room 1R0 in 
the College of Fine Arts Building. 
Visitors are welcome and invited to 
attend, «n. For particulars call Hazel 
1S93.
ENROLL 7 2 9 PLEBES
With a total registration of 2,052 
students enrolled in the - regular day 
courses at Carnegie according to the 
report from Registrar Alan Bright, 
the present enrollment in these 
courses has already exceeded the reg­
istration total on record at a similar 
period a year ago, and is even ahead 
of the figure for October 16, of last 
year, when 2,032 students had regis­
tered. As the Registrar’s office will 
follow the usual custom or continuing 
to enroll students in the day courses 
throughout this month and the next, 
it is expected that the final registra­
tion will be several hundred ahead of 
that of the past year.
Detailed registration figures will be 
found in the box at the bottom of 
page two.
The gross total enrollment will 
make its longest jump during the 
coming week when registrations are 
scheduled in both the day classes and 
the evening courses. The part-time 
classes for courses In both day and 
evening will probably add at least 500 
to the gross, while the registrations 
for the night courses on the evenings 
of October 1, 2, and 3 are expected 
to add from 2,500 to 3,000 more stu­
dents.
Although the night school enroll­
ment 2,425 was 40 per cent higher 
than that of the preceding year and 
100 per cent more than that of two 
years previous, President Thomas S. 
Baker and Dr. R. M. Ilirig, Director of 
Night Courses, are confident that this 
year will see a new high record en­
rollment estnbliRhod. Thi* volume of 
applications received during Septem­
ber has led these officials to prepare 
for a possible enrollment of 3,000. 
The Increasing interest in Pittsburgh 
in evening school opportunities and 
the additldn of numerous new and 
practical courses to the night program 
at. Carnegie Tech have been suggested 
as reaspns for the growth of the 
night classes.
According to Registrar Bright, the 
registration procedure for the night 
students on next Wednesday, Thurs­
day Friday nights has been radically 
simplified in comparison with the sys­
tem followed during the past.
DRAMA STUDENTS WILL PLAY
ELIZABETH BAKER^S “CHAINS”
The Drama Department opens its 
season in the Little Theater on Fri­
day evening, October 10, with tho 
presenting of a new play "Chains’ 
by Elizabeth Baker. Chains is a 
modern drama dealing with tho pres­
ent middle «class life in England. •
The play is produced under the 
supervision of Mr. Osborne and the 
cast of characters includes Panet 
Millis, Jean Blake, Betsey Lindsey, 
Mary Power. J:met Jerry, Bill Dick­
ey, Don Marge, Jimmy Resley, 
Emerson Hall, .Tack Daniels, Harold 
Minor and Ben Weinblatt.
There will be one or more student 
performance, giving all Carnegie 
folk and their friends opportunity 
to see the show.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL 
TO APPEAR TODAY
First Issue of Popular Peri­
odical Makes Its Debut 
On Campus
Due to the necessity of changing 
printers the opening issue of the Car­
negie Technical Journal has been 
somewhat delayed and will not ap­
pear on the campus until this noon. 
This tardiness has been greatly re­
gretted due to the conviction of the 
staff that the Journal should be avail­
able on Registration Day. It was felt 
that the excellence of the first num­
ber was so outstanding that to obtain 
a copy before school started would bo 
a most valuable asset to any student.
Despite numerous diflicultles that 
were encountered, all necessary ar­
rangements wore finally completed 
and after much exacting work the 
publication shall be offered for inspec­
tion on the campus today. Its ninny 
admirers shall again have an oppor­
tunity to peruse this Interesting pe­
riodical.
The policy of the Journal has been 
somewhat modified and the strictly 
technical and scientific paper familiar 
to the reader In past years has now 
usurped the broader field of a gen­
eral engineering and craft magazine. 
In its now scope tho Technical Jour­
nal will deal with all the problems 
which the business man of today must 
meet.
Of special Interopt along this lino 
Is an article which will appear in this 
issue entitled “Moving Pictures in 
Education.” Tho author has handled 
his material in an unusually capable 
manner and has ¦ v'aMy done justloo 
to a. subject which Is of such para­
mount interest. It is to be ‘pointed 
out that not merely the pedagog, but 
tho engineer, factory superintendent, 
social worker and advortisor, as well 
as husband and housewife are closely 
linked'with this problem.
Of general interest;, though possess­
ing a more historical context is the 
contribution of Prof. If. M. McCully 
of the Department of Engineering 
Drawing and Machine Design. Prof. 
McCully very thoroughly and effect­
ively describes the development of 
engineering drawing, in a most ploas- 
ing manner. The article is well illus­
trated by a number of quite rare and 
curious picturos taken from ancient 
texts.
Prof. M. M. Frocht of the Mechan­
ics Department, lends tho technical 
air to the publication by a description 
of a simplified method of finding the 
deflection in beams subjected to vary­
ing loads. This process is very littlo 
known and yet is quite a. valuable 
short cut to one who becomes deft 
in its manipulation.
Another article dealing with cord 
versus fabric tires describes original 
work carried on by two Carnegie men, 
W. Carl and O. B. Gunther. The work 
is quite complete and may be taken 
as typical of the results achieved by 
men who have studied here. Lack of 
j space forbids further description'but 
. all students are invited to secure a 
j copy of the Carnegie Technical Jour­
nal today or tomorrow' while they are 
on sale on the campus.
CITES TO MEET 
THURSDAY FOR 
ORGANIZATION
Seniors and Juniors Are Eli­
gible For Membership; Girl 
Cites Have Already Elected 
Their Officers
ADVENTURE GALOREI JOIN 
THE TARTAN STAFF AT ONCE
| The Tartan needs reporters. It*'- 
j emits from every class and every 
college of Carnegie will bo cordially 
j welcomed at The Tartan olTico, Room 
j 5-A on the lower corridor of the 
j College of Industries. If you think 
j this activity deserves your support 
j come out uud get a job. You’ll find 
I it interesting work and some day 
I you may value the experience. Now 
j is the time for Underclassmen, es- 
J pecially to get their start: but there 
j is plenty of work for men and wom­
en of the upper classes, too.
PLEBE RALLY THURS.
The Cites, the organization which 
will form a nucleus for organized 
cheering at Carnegie Tech, will hold 
its organization meeting this Thurs­
day at 12:20 in the Langley Lab.
All Seniors and Juniors, including 
third year men, are eligible for mem­
bership in this organization, and all 
of those who desire to do their bit 
for Carnegie should attend this meet­
ing in order to become members. A 
president, vice president, secretary, 
and treasurer will bo olected at this 
time, and tho matter of distinctive 
apparol will -also bo taken up.
The girls division of tho Cites has 
already organized and will play an 
important part in the work. Their 
officers are: President Emma Heil­
man, vico president Anne Whittan, 
secretary Margarot Markey, treasurer 
Eleanor Griffiths.
The purpose of tho Cites is to pro­
vide an organized cheering nucleus to 
help tho cheer loaders. They will 
load cheering somewhnt as tho band 
provides music. Tho Cites will march 
in a body to all gamos and choering 
rallies. They will assist the cheer 
leadors In oxecutlng chooring displays 
and stunts at the football games and 
In producing an organlzod system of 
chooring.
On Fridays before tho W. & J., 
Pitt, Penn State, and Notro Damo 
games, cheering rallies will bo hold 
at. tho Carnegie Bowl. Tho entire stu­
dent body is expected to bn present 
at these demonstrations which will 
tend to organize and unify Carneglo 
cheering and singing. Plobos must at­
tend those rallies, the Sophomores 
will see that tho Plobps are present, 
while tho Juniors and Seniors, as tho 
Cites, will at.tond in a body.
Another chooring rally for the ben­
efit of tho Plebes will bo hold In front 
of the Library again thhj Thursday at 
12:20.
Buglers will give notlco of this 
gathering and the S’ophomoros will 
see that all Plobos tire In attendance. 
All new men on tho campus must 
know all the Carneglo songs and 
yells beforo tho W. & J. game.
CHAPEL SERVICE TO 
BE HELD THURSDAY
PLAID DEFEATS 
DAYTON, 14-3, 
AS A STARTER
Manby and Beede Score First 
Touchdowns of Season as 
Skibos Defeat the Strong 
University of Dayton Team
MAKE GOOD SHOWING
Two “Y’s” Have Engaged 
Good Speakers For Month's 
Religious Periods
F. W. COOK CHOSEN FRESHMAN 
ADVISOR BY SENATE HEADS 
SENATE PRESIDENTS OF
SCIENCE AND INDUSTRIES
The selection of F. W. Cook, a 
Junior in the Civil Engineering De­
partment of the Collogo of Engineer­
ing to fulfill the duties of Freshman 
Advisor is a sourco of satisfaction to 
his classmates. Cook, whose vorsital- 
ity in school activities has made him 
a well known flguro on the campus, 
is the vice president of his class, a 
member of Sigma Epsilon Phi, of 
Thota Tan and of the Druids. Last 
year he was a member of both the 
varsity basket ball and track squads 
and is now on Coach. Steffen's foot­
ball roster. At present the new 
Freshman advisor is convalescing 
from an injury sustained recently at 
football practice.
GREAT STUFF!
Its óood for the SopJis^ rt/ a that ail Plebes areni'' J&Í like the ones on ihe ' % Plebe -tearn ! ^
LUTHERANS WILL HOLD
RECEPTION OCTOBER 10
At a meeting of the executive 
group of the Lutheran Student Club 
last week it was decided that an in 
formal reception for new and old 
students be held in the Lutheran 
Student House, corner of Bayard and 
Dithridge streets, Friday evening, 
October 10.
There will be dancing and card 
games, a short program and refresh­
ments served. It is hoped that all 
Lutheran students firom Carnegie,. P. 
C. W. and Pitt will avail themselves 
of this opportunity of getting ac­
quainted.
sert" is ready for O business in his new quarters.
(Qhere was Jots Ebof ¿ood -------materia.1 at the football camp in Mellon Annex.
be team has new jerseys//
ny plebes wild have had any experience with in- ierpretive dancinj_i\AL 1 are wanted for cheer'ieaJrf-'r.
Chapel services begin this week. 
The Y. M. C. A. and tho Y. W. C. A. 
liavo been getting things in shape, 
and now they have a splondid month’s 
program to offer.
The first service will bo held Thurs­
day, and the speaker will be Dr. Ed­
win J. Van Elten of the First Calvary 
Episcopal church. Tho second serv­
ice of tho month will liavo as its 
speaker Dr. Marsh of tho Smlthfleld 
Street Mothodlst church. Tho third 
service will bo conducted by Dr. Petty 
of tho First Baptist church. Dr. Kerr 
of tho Shadysido Presbyterian 
church, will talk at tho last chapol I 
of tho month.
These men are woll known to tho 
students of Carnegie and they are 
universally popular. A large number I 
of their friends will be prosent to 
hear them spoak, for they will all have 
something of Importance to say.
A blue flag with a white cross on 
It floating from tho top of the flag 
polo means that chapol services are 
to bo hold that day.
Chapel services woro first institut­
ed two years ago undor tho auspices 
of tho local Y. M. 0. A. and rapidly 
proved quite popular. Maud Adams 
was tho speaker at tho first chapol, 
and tho Littlo Theater was so crowd­
ed that the doors had to bo left open 
that those In tho foyor outside might 
hoar. Since that time a number of 
oqually prominent, people have ap­
peared hero and have offered a serv­
ice that was truly appreciated.
Perhaps tho outstanding foature oT 
the Chapol sorvicos In tholr brevity. 
Many llnd that; an hour loetnro at, 
general assembly acts as a sedative 
and am so drowsy throughout the 
majority of tho lecture that, they are 
dependent upon tho Tartan for tholr 
knowledge of tho speaker's words 
To these the twenty mlnuto limit 
placod upon tho Chapel speakers will 
prove a. most welcome restriction. 
Not only Is the sermon usually more 
Interesting hut It Is also hotter pro­
pared and moro forcoful.
All students are Invited and It Is 
hoped that they may avail themselves 
of this sorvlco.
DORMITORY MEN ELECT 
'OFFICERS FOR 1924-25
The Men's Dormitories have com­
pleted tholr annual elections of offi­
cers and are now fully prepared to 
function properly for tho coming 
year. Each dormitory elects a. Dor­
mitory Council Representative, a 
President, a Vice President and a 
Secretary-treasurer.' All students 
living in the dormitories are per­
mitted to vote for these officers, 
but only1 Upperclassmen can hold of­
fice. The Jesuits of these electlops 
are listed below:
DORMITORY COUNCIL—
T. L. Blebar—Boss Hall.
J. W. Cramp—Henderson Hall.
J. W. Force, Stoboll Hall.
N. D. Whaland—Welch Hall.
J. H. Klnghorn—M'C'GiM Hall. 
DORMITORY OFFICERS 
BOSS—
V. V. Senkus, president.
A. J. Burgert, secretary-treasurer. 
HENDERSON—
J. M. Goss, president.
W.. M. Faber, secretary-treasurer. 
McGILL—
R. V. Reiner, president.'
S. B. Blair, secreLary-treasurer. 
WELCH—
C. A. Vana, president.
J. H. Hummer, secretary-treasurer. 
SCOBELL—
J. G. Conley, president.
C. A. Swain, secretary-treasurer.
Every available room in the dor­
mitories Is occupied. Tho spirit of 
the dormitories, as of old, has start­
ed to form quickly and Scobell Hall 
again leads the way with a large 
sign reading, "Down Dayton."
8TUDENT8 INVITED TO
ADDRE88 BY DR. WIGGAM
A special Invitation has been ex­
tended to the members of tho faculty 
and tho student body of Carneglo In­
stitute of Technology to attend an ad­
dress to be given by Dr. Albert Ed­
ward Wlggam Thursday evening, Oc­
tober 2, at 8:15 p. m. In the Audito­
rium of tho Rodef Shalom Temple, 
Fifth avenue and Morew'ood avenue. 
Dr. Wiggam, who is the author of 
"The New Decalogue of Science." is 
a writer and lecturer of some note. 
His subject for Thursday evening will 
be "The Old Liberalism and the New.”
The Tartan football machine went 
up against a stiffer proposition than 
it had bargained for when it met and 
defeated tho strong University of 
Dayton team hero Saturday by a 
score of 14-3.
It was a colorful battle, replete with 
everything that goes to make up an 
Interesting and exciting football 
game. Several good runs, fake plays, 
reverse plays, fumbles and recover­
ies, touchdowns and a field goal were 
dished out to the largest crowd 
which over attended nn opening game 
in the Carnegie Bowl. Tho weather 
was qulto warm, old Sol shining down 
with vim and vigor upon the field, 
which omitted clouds of dust at each
scrimmage.
The visitors came jjpon the field 
promptly at 3 o'clock and were given 
a rousing wolcome both by tho Car­
negie supporters and the rooters who 
journeyed to Pittsburgh from Dayton, 
prominent among them being tho 
Dayton University band which viod 
for honors throughout tho game with 
our own Kilties. Tho Skibos followed 
soon aftor, and the spectators were 
glvon tholr first glimpse of tho 1921 
model Tartan football machine, it 
was oasily soon that Dayton had tho 
heavier toam, though the Skibos pre­
sented a toam which la said to bo 
the heaviest that has roprosontod Car- 
nogio for some years.
Tho first quarter was marked by 
tho froquout. fumbling of both toams. 
Bastian started tho misplays, followed 
Immediately by Achlou, the shifty Ha­
waiian star In tho Dayton backflold. 
Taken all In all, the fumbling quite 
evened itself up, with the oxcoption 
that one of tho visitors' misplays cost 
them a touchdown. 'Phis happonod 
In the second period after Achlou had 
kicked a pretty field goal from the Ifi- 
yard line. With the score standing 
¡1-0 against tho Tartans, things did not 
look so good. This was where the 
fighting spirit which typiflos all Car­
neglo teams came to the front. Short­
ly after Bastian had IclQkod off over 
the goal lino, Weber attempted an end 
run. Tho pass from center was a bit 
too high, which fact was coupled with 
the hard charging of the Skibo for­
ward line. This seemed to make 
Weber a, littlo nervous, and ho turn- 
(Continued on Page Throo)
Musical Clubs Have 
Large Initial Turnout'
Abundance of New Material' 
Makes Prospects Good
Last Sunday marked tho starting 
of tho season for tho Musical Clubs. 
Manager Sload has already express­
ed his appreciation of the turnout and 
ho predicts the best season In tho 
history of things musical.
The Gloo Club enrollment has not 
yet boon •completed, for tho candi­
dates wore so numerous it was ini- 
possible for the three recorders to 
get the names of all tho men. Now 
men ware quite plentiful, but in the- 
lack of tryouts, there was no chance- 
to test their timber. In case there- 
are any more men who would like- 
to start the year right with the 
clubs, Director Johnson will bo on. 
hand to wolcome them next Sunday 
iiit 2:30 in the Exhibition Room m- 
Arts Building.
Director Kovack of the Mandolin 
Cl[u;b, met such a multitude of talent 
that he is still dazed by the display. 
His reaction was one of exceeding 
joy. He says with tho material on 
hand lie will tuirn out an organiza- 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
FOOTBALL DANCES IN 
UNION WILL CONTINUE
The Student Council at its second 
meeting of the year decided to con­
tinue again this year the football 
dances which proved so popular on 
the campus last fall.
These dances, the first of which 
was hold last Saturday, will be held 
after each liorna» football game. The 
proceeds realized from these affairs 
will go to the Alhletic Association. 
Ono of a couple must present a Car­
negie Tech registration card beforo 
admission to any clanco in tho Union 
In granted.
Tho council received at this meet­
ing a communication from the ad­
ministration stating that thfire would 
ho no classcs on Armistlco Day, No­
vember 11. Inasmuch as a General 
Assembly had been scheduled for this 
flay, Council changed the date of tho 
November Assembly to November 18.
A motion was passed prohibiting 
tlje use of the Union for rehearsals 
by private organizations. The council 
also elected an attendant to take care 
of the Union and one for the campus 
bulletin boards.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1924
Ä CafnEfjieXartan;EXPECT LARGE
Published every week by uridergraduutoH of the Carnegie Institute ol i PMH AT f 7\/l I_,\7rF TNTTechnology under ll ie unpei-vlslon of the Student Council.______________________I I. Ev EerEEE rvE y.Iv I JjV ;
Entered in the Postofllce of Pittsburgh a» second-class matter.* jio,ro'!IVCH!a'........... NIGHT COURSES
NON-DEGREE MEETING
I-’it IO I) C. SMI!
P. I). ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
T. J. DEM PS 10YIO. C. FRAZIER !
EDITORIAL STAFF
Sara Mae Everett; D. A. Gardner, I/. If. Harris, Harriet Merwln, 
A. F. Carnon,
MANAGING EDITOR
FREI) T. PHELPS..
Registration Will Likely Ex­
ceed Last Year’s—Heaviest
-------------- Enrollment in the Building
..Schonley 0102; and Machine Trades
«— NIGHT DIRECTOR Ï ARE YOU CRRI RA T?EWUCHU iDISSEMINATES \
All non-degree men will meet in'
Room 104, Industries, on Wednesday, U I~\ 1 L/J Tech Beats Cokeovens
October 1, for the purpose of elect-; _ It was with no little surprise that
in« officers for the year. Every ( |PP| JHTI INlTIrS ’ group of fellows discovered a head- 
non-degree or short course man is! Vy 1 1 Vy IV 1 LJill A 1L/U line to that effect in a recent Pitts-
urged to attend this meeting. Here-1 ____________ burgh paper. Upon reading the art-
after there will be a Plebe roll-call ; . | icle, our friends discovered that the
at all advertized meetings of the! Broadcasts Speech On POSSI- “Tech” in question was not Carnegie
Non-Dewree Association! Better come 
out, Plebes, and keep your name off! 
the black llat.
, ... . _ -T. , ~ | Tech, but Marshall Tech, an aggrega-
bilities Of Night Courses, ¿j0n 0j> football players from thè
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ......................................................................................................S'cMlmloy »070
V. n. SMITH....................................................................................................Franklin 5547-.I 1
ARIS PLEBES SUFFERcessity For Such Courses
REGISTER OCT. 1, 2, 3
REPORTERS
Estelle Garibaldi, Wilma Stlnor, Carol Folght, Almee Pharo, E. O.l Convinced that the best method,for 
Johnson, K. Fulmer, F. M. McClelland, G. A. Lundqulst, R. L, Lepper, M. ¡ training young men to /ill the "white 
Holllnshead, W. Fendi, W. Senkuii, I). K. Mims.
A. E. KR'OOH..............................................................................¦.............ALIJMNI J4DITOR
Assistants. .Rosemary McCambridge, Margaret McFall, J. M. (Joss, M. W. Gay
J. CHRISTOFF... 
Assistants................
..............................................................................ATHLETIC EDITOR
. .G. E. Jacoby, J. F. Harris, E. G, Plummer, J. A. C. Foller
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON.
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER.
collar" jobs is by means of the 
"overall route,” authorities at Car­
negie are concentrating their atten­
tions this year upon the development 
of the night courses in the College of 
Industries. Within the past two or 
three years, the growth in enrollment 
in the trade courses given at night 
at Carnegie Tech, has been one of 
9122 I k*,e features in the expansion of the 
______; evening divisions.
ey 9211
Over KDKA; Stresses Ne- Nort^ sldPf „TI,° “if reaso" [or thewording of the headline is not known,
| since it must have been misleading
to nearly all readers, but it brings out 
rrnCT I I-TP A T DEM A I TIEC I ] the point which was mentioned in
t EhiE ngsisn 1 Ln ALllt J FACILITIES UTILIZED this column last year. We want our
___________ ________ school to be known, not simply as
Whack! And another Plebe felt j “Onnortunities for Evening -Study I ^<Lch’ Carne£ie-opportunities ror evening biuuj Tt ^fpUid cause no surprise.among UJ „lllc Wl
5 °r Uie royal paddle. I he : in Pittsburgh,” were described by Dr. j followers of sports in the Pittsburgh j print the iittie word Tech. In fact,
Art Sophs started the hall rolling with R M IIlr|Ki D|roclor 0[ the Night j:apers, if they should some fine morn- ,t js easier to use it, but the easier
tho first Plebe trial ot the year, and CourBe8 o[ Carnegie Institute of Teel.- ] inK nnl1 a headline such as SCHEN-
it was a hot demonstration , , ,, , , ! LEY HIGH SWAMPS TECH 28-3,it. ».i« a juju iiMiiuiibLi iii.iun. | ,,n]n(rv in n rn,iin tnvpn from I ... ,Westinghouse Technical High School
called a meeting and asked the 
preacher concerning his unusual be­
havior. His answer was: “You have 
not yet started to live according to 
the first beatitude, therefore you 
have not learned it; when you do, 
we shall go on to the second.”
Something of the same nature im­
pels us to speak about this subject 
again and again. It is really not a 
trivial one. When we leave college 
we want to be free of the embarrass­
ment of having to explain that Tech, 
in our case, is not M. I. T., is not C. 
I. T. (California Inst, of Technology), 
is not Marshall Tech, nor Cleveland 
Tech, but CARNEGIE.
It may be easier to say, write, or
| nology in a radio address given from | 
Judge Young heard tho findings of j statlon KDKA la3t nlgh£
Attorney Perreton with a severe and |In tracing the development of the j Tech as does Carnegie. Last fall we 
stem look on his inspired counte-1 evening schools throughout the coun- learned with some astonishment, up- 
nance. Every alleged offender .was* try he said: "With the increase in | on glancing over a Harrisburg paper:
required to bow before the judge up- the complexity of our social and in- "TECH WINS INTERSCHOLASTIC
rliiKfrinl Hfn thorn rnmp« ;i frrnwinsr I MFTRT IN CARNECJTE TECHon entering the court room, and while
thing is not always the best. The il­
lustrious name of our founder carries 
with it the very spirit of all our 
has just as much right to the name > scotch traditions, such as the Plebe
CIRCULATION MANAGER
I dustrial life, there comes a growing ! MEET IN CARNEGIE TECH 
need for men and women trained in ; BOWL.” One can pick up almost any
J). MOSKOVmel 1122
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, R. L. Sand rock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, Lee G. Osborn, J. 
M. Alrgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, .1, P. Strlzak, Lois Snyder, A. For­
mten, G. II, Carl.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for the make up.
the
last year were enrolled more than 
half of the J500 night students in 
the College of Industries. While many 
of these students were employed dur­
ing the day in related trades, such as 
carpenters, electricians, plumbers, 
and draftsmen, many others were
________________________________________________________________ young men who were filling subordi-
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, j nate jobs as clerks,, timekeepers and 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All howb items must be in the student i assistants, but who had their visions 
post! oillce before 4:30 Thursday. j fixed upon the more desirable jobs
oillce-ltoom G-A, Industries liulhllng. Olllcc hours-I.ally 12:30-i »uch as superintendents, designers. 
talf architects, and construction engi-
In the building trades courses alone the Plèbe was posed at the correct! specialized lines of technical* work, paper from any town in the country,
THE TANK
¦- neers.
| In the machinery trades, also, the 
I growth in enrollment during the past 
— _ j few years lias been almost as markedAnother name lias been added to the number ol: small boys who j ;i8 yie expansion in the building 
have been drowned in the tank back of Machinery Hall. The case is J trades courses. Machinists were 
pathetic enough without going into details about it. Here’s the . found to be enrolled in the night 
point.
What’s to be done about it?
II! it were the first time the thing Inis happened there might be 
some discussion as to the need ol! doing anything as it might be an 
isolated case. But it is not the first time. It has happened before 
and more than once. »Something should be done to insure against a
repetition. The problem of what to, do is not difficult. A. barbed wire ............................
fence, a wooden cover, any of several things would serve as a safety ; trial courses at the institution has 
device. But nothing has been done. Practically no attention has j now reached the point, according to 
been paid the incident except for the flutter of excitement which ( President Baker, where practically; 
followed. ' «'very tradesman in the building, ma­
lt is the dntv of the Institute to make certain that this thing will I ehlnery or printing industries can
not happen «Kain. As..... ............... lives ot those ™,icon,o.l, which ¡¡¡J* one subject that should
is u powerful #'gwhenl. in itself the goo,I ........ of the school suffer bu|J
No matter ll! you tell people that little boys are not allowed to swim 
in our tank, they will ask, “What has been done to prevent them?”
And wc must answer, “Nothing.”
A few days’ work and a small amount ol! money would serve 
to prevent the loss ol! any more lives, and surely it is worth it.
The tank must be made boy proof.
courses in patternmaking, foundry 
work, heat treatment of steel, or 
drafting. Molders came to study ma­
chine practice or patternmaking or 
drafting. Clerks and draftsmen stud­
ied in the machine, foundry,, or forge 
shops.
The development of the night Indus-
PEP
Once upon a time there was a tradition in this part ol1 the coun­
try and wherever the name ol! Carnegie Tech was known that the pep 
and school spirit shown hero was the finost of any college pi! the dis­
trict, We’re not living up to it!
Our pop is getting cold, 'l'alce l'or instance the ch cor rallies of 
last week, Ifllaborato preparations wore made by those in charge to 
have a good old fashioned rally with the consequent working up of 
cheering and football spirit. And the turnout was terrible. The 
upper classmen who happened to be passing slopped and eheerod a 
little; the Plebes who wore present did their best; and the rest ol! 
ilio school serenely wont its way entirely unconscious ol! the fact 
that there was anything missing.
We can’t lmv'0 school spirit without the whole school participat­
ing in things ol! this kind, We’re not upholding our traditions. The 
tenni this year will bo minus the shrvices ol' some ol! the men who 
helped make the great teams ol! the past Few years, and therefore will 
jiecd nil the support it can gel, in order lo make I lie slmwinn- j|
trades courses, in which enrollment 
has increased recently because of the 
continued activity in building projects 
In this district, will this year include 
courses in plumbing,’ carpentry, sheet 
metal, structural drafting, architec­
tural drafting, heating and ventilat- 
j lag, masonry, bricklaying, and con- 
1 «roto work, electric equipment and 
I construction, estimating, and metal 
lathing.
For the mechanic in the machinery 
; Industries and those who dosire to 
| enter tills field there arò courses in 
j pattenvmnklng, foundry, machine 
I practice, forging and heat treatment
angle, the old oaken fence rail de- i To till this need the institutions of
scended with much pentup energy be- \ learning in this country are being
hind it. j called upon to do their utmost. For
Every Plebe received a fair trial! ma"Jr thoro ,ms bee" a" u,"’r0'
and a very fair sentence.- A skirt now j eederitad Increase in our school popu-
adorns the form or one misled young latl°“ ,nUil alra0!it 0VRly educational 
man; another will give each girl that ‘"Stltutlon, from kindergarten to col-
,.asses at noon a dried green pea and ! Ieee. Is crowded to capacity,
sav, “I love you;" two more will oe °r the significant features in
cupy the pillars in trout ot Art at mill-1 lhe educational history of the last
day and read logarithlms at tho top twenty-live years has been the organ-
of their voices; many more receivedization and development of evening
several swats with the flat side cf a i classefi' Particularly in the great ur- 
boartl, and the consequent cooling off! ban centers of the country. The prl- 
In the cool tub ot water. I mai'y Purpose or such schools is to
bring educational opportunities to With terror in their hearts, tlic | ^ anfl women ^ employed.
during the usual day school hours, inPlebes left, vowing to obey every reg­
ulation until- the next opportunity to 
break one presents itself.
cap, the Kilties, the Thistle, the Tar­
tan, the Plaid, the Sporran, and all 
the numerous other ideas and tradi­
tions that bind us together into the 
great Carnegie Clan. What does the 
name of Tech carry with it. To us, it 
may mean all that Carnegie does, but 
how about it to outsiders. One 
doesn’t expect a Tech to have tradi­
tions. It simply doesn’t go ’with the 
name.
Give the . subject * some thought.
. . . _ | Then decide and act accordingly. Thecontrary, there is just cause for pride.. mt- . v • ,! matter is not trivial,m tbe classification. The technical i
schools of the country rank among *
the foremost among the educational ! 
institutions of the country, but that. ! 
is no reason that we should not de- j 
sire to have a name of our own.
Once upon a time there was a coun- j 
try preacher who preached each Sun­
day for three months upon the same 
subject, namely: the first beatitude,
Finally the deacons and trustees
and learn about the exploits of Tech. 
Yes, indeed, Tech is famous.
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
has no quarrels with the other schools 
whose technical nature brings upon 
them the name of "Tech”. On the
Yours, for the good of CARNEGIE.
i various lines of work. In every com-
____________________________________________inunity there are those who have per-
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------j haps been deprived of educational op-
of steel. For other tradesmen not es- portunities or who have been forced 1 
pecially identified with either the to discontinue their, schooling early | 
building or machinery trades there) jn life. In a center like Pittsburgh it) 
are courses in practical chemistry,; jS now possible for such persons to | 
mechanical drafting, lead burning, take up various lines of study in even- 
storage batteries, electric meter prac-: ing schools without giving up their 
tice, radio communication, n.utomo-1 regular day employment. Such stu- 
bile maintenance and operation, oxy-: dents not only earn while they learn, 
acetylene and electric arc welding j but in many cases increase their earn- 
and printing. | ing power In proportion as tlieir addi-
A1 though registrations for the night; tional training makes for greater ef- 
courses will not be held until October I ficiency in their work.
1, 2, 3, the preliminary applications! After describing the. service offered 
made during this month indicate an- ’ by Carnegie Institute of Technology 
other big night enrollment in the Col-j through its evening classes in the in- 
lege of Industries. Continued activ- j dustrial field, in engineering, and in 
ity In the building trades has been [ the fine and applied arts he said: 
reflected in the large number of ap-l “The Carnegie Institute of Tecli- 
plicalions for building trades courses,1 nology is endeavoring to help its stu- 
and in spite of a slight depression in dents become more efficient workers 
the iron and steel industries, a gain i and better citizens, and through the
Peregrinations
PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
EXPLAINED BY ESQUERRE
PLUMES
I
The Plebes, who are being given a 
physical examination, are probably 
interested in knowing the purpose of 
this test, and Professor Esquerre, an­
ticipating this question, explained its 
value to the reporter.
The primary purpose of the exami­
nation is to keep the student physlc- 
It is only when the student
(By Lawrence Stallings, Harcourt,
Brace and Company.)
The literary editor of the New 
York World has given us in
“Phimes” a powerful story of the I ally fit. ___ ___ ___ ________
reconstruction necessary in the lives) is in the best of physical condition 
of the soldiers who survived the ¡ that he can put forth his best effort. 
World War. It contains a hint of! The examination shows up any phys- 
tlfe author’s own experiences in | ical defects which may prevent him 
France; enough of a hint to explain ¡from giving his best, 
the development of his hero’s ideas, The examination is . invaluable to 
and to convince us that the recon- the health of the student inasmuch as 
struction problems facing the nation! it may uncover minor defects which 
are almost insignificant compared I may be corrected by special gymna- 
with the confused struggle at read- j sium work; or it may uncover defects 
justment. suffered by ever^» veteran i of a more serious nature of which the
in the applications for courses in the | mediumship of its students, is striv- j upon his return to civil life.- student is uriaware. In such cases
machinery trades is roported. As | ing to be increasingly useful to the Without moralizing, without being the examiners may suggest treatment
considerable interest is also being Pittsburgh district and to contribute too frantically pacific, the booki or recommend a competent specialist.
shown in such courses as radio com-¡more and more not only to material hears weighty witness against war.|"=- ........... ¦ -......
munlcation, auto repairs, practical progress in tochnical fields but also ¦ After contemplating the horrible tions.
chemistry, etc.. confidence is felt by ; to the development of a high and fine j things that happened to Richaird The style is masterful, the story
the. Carnegie Tech authorities that Idealism. In proportion as its l’acili- Plume’s body and soul, and after j fascinating. One is so skilfully de-
the record enrollment of 2*125 night j ties are utilized and the scope of its
students of last year will be exceeded I service extended will the existence
in I f)2<l-1925. I of the Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy be justified and the wish of its
should. Turiiout ut Illese pep rallies; we c.a.n outeheer any school in ' founder f^lfllled.,,
the country in proportion lo tlie number ol: students il! wc are willing ; 2355=25®=
to try. It’s^iiot enough lo turn out nt thè games. tt.’s thè getting !
oul; al. your lunch pcriod, or after school when there is no incentive |
tlial; stampa the reai school spiri!;. Any sacrifico in timo \Vo may
multe, will ho only a small part of Our duty to our sehool and our ;
team, (lei, out al, thè rally 1 his week, and boiler. Show (hai; Clà'r-
ne.gie Tech stili has tho niost school spi ri t ol! any school in the» i
districi.
And SOPHOMOMS see that the Plcbes gel, there. Show tliòm ? 
lhaI vmi Imve reai pep and tight.
recognizing the poignant truth of 
most of their conclusions, the preser­
vation of peace comes to seem vital 
even to those of us who never gives, 
much thought to politicai! abstrac-
pressed that every page becomes en­
joyable, even the bitterest ' ones. 
Here’s a dramatic novel that you 
can’t afford to miss.
H. MERWIN.
Registration For Year
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES Graduato Senior Junior
(1924-1925)
Soph. Freshman ShortTotal
Building Construction ...........14203049113
Machinery Production...........lì»153543112
1210S1343
Teachers ......................................242I9
Unclassified ................................L1
TOTAL....................................47•11)7510727S
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Chemical ......................................7- « 710
T-
24
Civil ...............................................112202255
Commercial .................................21343590
Electrical ...............................:?o3245110S
Mechanical .................................24171G57
Metallurgical .............................•t5r,3 •IS
Mining ..........................................7r.36. 1536
2t;2111
(Physics ........................i61S
Mathematics ...............................33
TOTAL....................................14in12714216410
FRESHMEN (Ind. and Eng.)
TOTAL.....................................360360
MARGARET MORRISON 
CARNEGIE COLLEGE
Academic Library....................¡¿ i35
-
515
Costume Economics................i152129369
Household Economics ...........212013458
Hsld. & Cos. Economics........1129
General Science ......................24713
Secretarial ..................................22S1337176 ¦
Social Work...............................l>1111230
English Minor ...........................7129129
linciassi lied .............'................159159
:t779«12015916—471
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
M WM WM WM WM WM W
Qunl.
MW MW
Total
Architect uj'e ...............................Kt . .2D 142 . .02 1lì . .2 .. 1542156
, Drama................................................:t 12n t10 9.15 1511 . . 37417S j
Music ............................... 1
Paint, and Illuni........................
t ta2 117 24!l 355 4:: 1 2XS9117ii; s11 S21 101 23 .. Ill37S3 1
Applied Art....................................•ï t»10 s5 1110 231 33 1 3355SS
Sculpture ......................................i1 33:».... 1!)10 1
Unclassified .................................Ll
TOTAL...................... 2 toY MgCr>27 It 55117 9313 131 1 2 2991533 :
i *1.2851312102(51 « 513533
Graduato SeniorJuniorSoph.FreshmanShortQual. Total,T ot.ilSUMMARY M VVM WM VVM WM VVM WM W MWCollege of—
INDUSTRIES.............................•17 ..•10 ..75 . .107 . ... .. 27S278
ENGINEERING ......... 11..Ill ..127 ..112 ..16 . ... .. 410410
FRESHMEN ...............................300 . ..... 360360
M. M. CARNEGIE
COLLEGE .................... :577. . ÍU5.. 120.. 159.. 10471¦171FINE ARTS ................ 2 1,15 .1152 337« 55117 9313 13*14 2 29923,4533
TOTAL.................... 1G tis:? ut228 129293 175477 252136 2914 2 13477052052GRAND TOTAL......... 2029735746S72916516 20522052
DORMITORIES FILLED 
AND ELECTIONS HELD
The Men's Dormitories this year! 
are full and are housing more than 
ever in their history.
The conditions around the dormi-i 
tories has been undergoing many | 
changes for the better in the last | 
year under the careful guidance of 
Miss Helm.
Miss Helm, who is head of tliei 
Men’s Dorms, has been at the school 
just one year this month. Having 
had wide expedience in her line ofj 
work, she has been able to create' 
a more homelike atmosphere and al­
so to arouse a personal interest, in 
the residents about the dormitory; 
conditions.
As the dorms contain approxi-l 
mately two hundred and fifty Plebes.: 
there are many new men to be dealt j 
with. Those interested in dorm con­
ditions hope that the Plebes will, if j 
you haven’t already, get acquainted' 
with Miss Helm and . co-operate withj 
her to further dorm improvements. !
.One of the most needed1 additions! 
that was added last year to the dor-i 
mitories was an infirmary service, j 
This was totally under Miss Helm’s j 
care and direction. Money for it 
being' gathered from voluntary sub-i 
seription mostly among the dorm 
residents.
This year at a dorm meeting held 
during the first! woelc of school, it 
was voted to assess each occupant 
or the dorms tho sum or one dollar 
for the year.
’l'hls fee, as has been ruled by the; 
dorm council, will bo payable on or 
before October 15 and will bc! 
tuirned over to Mias Helm for an ¦in­
firmary fund.
You dorm residents lay aside one 
buck for the collector who will call! 
on you, soon.
WHITEHEAD CLUB
TO HOLD MEET FOR PITT
AND CARNEGIE OCT. 5
There will be a combined meeting j 
of Pitt and Tech at the Church of the | 
Ascension on October 5, at five p. m. j
Plans for the coming year will be 
discussed and all new students will! 
be welcomed.
jGR ERATASU F!sF
!St aFUAlAaATo
The Wahl Pen was designed for 
writing ease and legibility. It is a 
perfected, modem writing instrument 
which will aid you in acquiring a 
practical hand, a readable expression 
of your thoughts.
All metal construction—gold or 
silver for permanence and service­
ability—gives light weight, fine bal­
ance, increased ink capacity, strength 
to resist wear and abuse. And brings 
the designer opportunity to produce 
a pen matching the beauty of a hand­
somely cased watch.
Prices in gold filled or silver 
models $5 to $10.
Made in the U. S. A. by
THE'WAHL COMPANY, Chicago
Canadian Faflory' THE WAHL COMPANY, Ltd., Toronto
Evers harp is made hi designs 
¦matching Wahl Pen
WAHL PEN
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
d0PLAID ATHLETICS
WESTINGHOUSETECH 
TIES PLEBES AT 6-6
Neither Team Shows Strong 
Offensive; Grossklos, 
Cowan, Hess Star
In the opening game of the season 
Westinghouse Tech managed to get 
away with a G-G tie against the STdbo 
Plebes in the Carnegie Bowl, Satur­
day. This game was played as a pre- 
liminary to the Dayton-Carnegie clash.
Both teams displayed a rather weak 
offensive, but were evenly 'matched 
in weight and strong on the defen­
sive. Only at times did the Plebes 
uncork a consistent attack which 
netted them some ground. The line 
did not charge well, while the backs 
moved too slowly, the man with the 
ball often running into his own inter­
ference.
The first half ended with the score 
a tie at 0-0, but shortly after the third 
quarter began the Plebes launched an 
attack which brought them their 
touchdown. Plunges by Cowan and 
Hess arid knife-like thrusts off tackle 
by the shifty Grossklos worked the 
ball to the five-yard line. It was first 
down and the goal to gain. On three 
trials at the line the ball \ was still a 
yard from the goal, but on the next 
play Cowan plunged across for the 
score. Hess missed a place kick for 
the point after touchdown, the ball 
hitting the cross-bar and bounding 
back into the field.
Shortly after the Plebes’ touch­
down, a fumble on an end-around play 
was scooped up by Wienand of West­
inghouse. He had a clear field ahead 
of him, and ran unmolested 40 yards 
for a touchdown. Africa missed the 
placement kick and the game stood 
deadlocked.
Cowan, Grossklos and Hess were 
the outstanding stars for the Plebes, 
while Weinand and Africa did the 
best work for the visitors. Allen did 
good work at center, and gives prom­
ise for the future, as does Weaver 
and Langfiitt. The effectiveness of 
the Plebes was greatly hampered by 
the loss of such men as Crum, Cone- 
maugh High star fullback, Dover- 
spike, Meilzéiner, and Young, line­
men, who showed up so well at train­
ing camp. These men were declared 
ineligible because of the fact that 
they could not get into school unless 
they took non-degree courses the first 
semester. However, they will be elig­
ible for the varsity next year, and 
should prove to be valuable additions 
to the varsity squad.
Next Saturday the Plebes meet
The Singer Pen and Gift Shop in 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea­
sonable prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
| Jacques School of Dancing
| Craig and Forbes Streets
[ Beginners Monday and Friday 
| evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
I Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
I by appointment.
This is a School—
[ Not a public dance hall.
Compliments 
of
Skibo Inn
TENNIS TOURNAMENT 
PROMISES EXCITEMENT1924 PLAID FOOTBALL SQUAD
The fourth annual fall tennis tour­
nament opens today, when all first 
round matches will be played. 
Matches will be played every after­
noon this week and next, weather per­
mitting, until the completion of the 
tournament. The winner receives a 
loving cup and will be acclaimed as 
the school "champ”.
A fair-sized entry list guarantees a 
large number of interesting matches. 
Such stars as Ted Moessner and 
George Baldwin would make any 
school tournament interesting. Of 
course, the rules of the tournament 
do not permit letter or numeral men 
in tennis to compete. The following 
men have signed up for the tourna­
ment: A. H. Rosseau, Ted Moessner, 
Morris R. Perry, S. S. Greenwood, J.
G. Bright, F. J. Boax, H. R. Jones, 
John Hooper, R. S. Tener, G. Pettie- 
ora, W. E. Sturm, W. Schoenberg, 
George Baldwin, J. B. Hardie, C. W. 
Sandberg, H. Eisenberg, Wm. R. Ber- 
nardi, Robert Stevens, F. C. Smith 
and C. E. Beedle.
The tournament is in charge of 
Hoeffer Sload, varsity tennis mana­
ger, and his assistants, George Mur­
phy, Joe Raddin and McGill. Noth­
ing is being left undone to make the 
tournament the best ever held here.
Slippery Rock Normal, a team which 
always furnishes the stiffest kind of 
opposition. This game will be played 
as a preliminary to the Carnegie-Tliiel 
battle. Coach Anderson is busy this 
week ironing out the rough spots
which developed in the game against
Westinghouse, and promises better re­
sults in the next encounter.
The lineup:
Plebes—6 Westinghouse—G
Weaver.............. L. E. .........................Hill
Fishbein........... L. T......................Llesher
Ivomack.............. L. G......................Kallecli
Allan....................... C...........................Pendo
Johnson.............. R. G.....................McCann
Marshall........... R. T.........................Mapes
Langfit.............. R. E......................Briclier
Sebastian.............. Q...........................Africa
Cowin................ L. IT........................Kaeris
Gloskloss...........R. H....................Magsdar
Hess...................... F.......................Conable
Score by quarters:
Plebes |...............................0 0 G 0—G
Westinghouse ..................0 0 G 0—6
Touchdowns — Hess. Weinand, 
Missed point after touchdown—Hess 
(place kick); Africa (place kick.) 
'Substitutions: Westinghouse—Nil-
son for McCann, Wienand for Kallech, 
I-Ioffstoft for Mapes.
Comprehensive Apppeal.
A street car conductor called out 
shrilly to the passengers standing in 
the aisles: “Will tlilm in front pla/e 
to move up, so that thirii behind can 
take the places of thim In front an’, 
lave room for thim who are uayther ln 
front nor behind V”
Thought tor tho Day.
There are people who I’eel under 
no obligations to help In any worthy 
ciiuse unlp^s they are solicited.
L
TECH
CONFECTIONERY
Come to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
TECH POCKET 
BILLIARD PARLOR
FORBES, NEAR CRAIG 
Jerry, Manager.
WRKLEYS
After Every Meal
It’s the longest-lasting 
confection yon can buy -and it’s a help to di­
gestion and a cleanser 
i lor the mouth 
, and teeth.
, Wr!gley*s means 
i benefit as well as 
pleasure.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists’ and Engineers’ Mate­
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING 
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in ¦ 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask, for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
THIEL IS NEXT FOE 
OF PLAID WARRIORS
Donohoe Likely to Be Found 
at Haltback; Steffen to 
Use New Plays
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
OPENING GAME ENCOURAGING
With the Dayton game out of the way the students, alumni and friends 
of Carnegie, as well as the coaches, have a more definite idea regarding the 
Skibos’ chances during the'difllcult season before them. The low score in 
no way indicates that, tho Tartans are weaker this season than in previous 
ones—it simply shows that the visitors were a much hotter team then was 
at first thought. Heavy as our team was, the Dayton hoys outweighed them. 
The Ohioans; have a lighting aggregation, one that should ho able to suc­
cessfully cope with the remaining games on their schedule. The Skibos did 
exceptionally well against a team of such caliber, and desorvo a world of 
praise for their showing. True, there was a great deal ol' fumbling on 
both sides, but this was only natural for tho first gamo. The coaches were 
well pleased with the showing made, aud it is felt that with a little more 
seasoning the team should bo able to go into the hard games a few weeks 
hence with even chances of victory.
CROSS COUNTRY MEN 
TO DRESS IN NEW GYM
PLEBES MAKE GOOD SHOWING
Despite the fact that they got away with only a G-G tie against West- | 
inghouse Tech, a team which has always been beaton heretofore, tho Plobos ¦, 
should have a very good season under tho leadership of Coach Jimmy An- ! 
derson. Westinghouse Tech this year prosentod a hoavior and more experi­
enced team than in previous years, and at that wore saved from dofoat by j 
a rrilsplay on the part of tho Plebes, who on the other hand, earned thoir 
only touchdown after a steady march down tlio llold. The Skibo yearlings 
have recently been handicapped by the fact that sovoral of tho best mon on 
the squad could not enter school unless they took non-dogroo courses, Ihu»’ 
making them Ineligible for football competition.
CLASS B TEAMS FURNISH OPPOSITION
Not only djd Dayton give the Skibos all they were looking for last! 
Saturday, but Pitt struck against'a snag when thoy mot Grovo City and won ; 
only 1-1-0 after a hard struggle, while tho best Wash-Joff could do against 
Geneva was a 19-G victory. It seems that tho Class B teams are gotting 
stronger each year. The time may come when it will he more profitable for 
the so-called larger schools to immediately take on tho big schools early in 
the season, rather than to pick on "soft-snaps." At loast, this would bo 
true ‘from a financial standpoint, and in many cases would hold true from 
the physical standpoint. Pitt evidently works under theso assumptions, for 
Lafayette and West Virginia are met in the second and third gamos respec­
tively.
HEAD COACH STEFFEN LEAVES
Today marks the departure of Coach Judge Walter P. Stoffen, who re­
turns to Chicago to take up his judicial duties aftor spending his vacation 
during the month of September with tho Carnogln football team. Judgo 
Steffen has moulded together a formidable combination In' tho short time ho 
has been here, and will keep in close touch with tho football situation during 
the remainder of tho season. He will return each Saturday and direct the 
team from the bench. During the week the team will be in charge of As*- 
sistant Coach Bob Waddell, who in turn will be assisted by Dr. Marks, 
field coach. These men aro fully capable of carrying out Coach Wally's plays 
for the season.
FOOTBALL FINDINGS:
Trainer Burt Munhall is doing a little detoctivo work these days. He is 
trying to find out who tampered with his garters in such way that the garters 
were made too small to fit even a ten-year-old boy's legs, much loss his own 
rotund ones. It is suspected that so'me one in the coaches’ room did it, and 
rumor has it that the judge himself is guilty.
An unusual feature of both games Saturday was the fact that there was 
not a single substitution made by Carnegie throughout the games. The 
Plebes went through the battle with the eleven men who started, while the 
varsity did the same.
Achieu, the husky Hawaiian halfback on the Dayton team, is a real star. 
He kept the fans on edge with his unusual speed and shiftiness. His punt­
ing, too, while not of great distance, was accurate and well placed.
Tho meeting held Thursday after- 
noon in the Field House for tho can­
didates of the cross country team 
was well attended and brought out 
somo interesting information. Man­
ager Carey Proctor of the varsity gavo 
a little talk in which ho outlined the 
policy of the team during tho present 
season. He explained that tho candi­
dates for both the varsity and tho 
freshman toams would make tho 
lockor room of tho new gym their 
drossing quarters. Ho statod that tho 
Freshman course would bo two and a 
half milos long, while that of tho Var­
sity about six milos long. Ho also an­
nounced that the Lehigh moot had 
boon cancelled, but that another good 
attraction was ponding for that dato.
Manager Curtis Corbin of tho 
Freshman team gavo out tho schodulo 
for the soason, which is as follows:
OcLober 25—Sacred Heart II. S. 
(pending).
Novombor 1—Slmdysldo Academy.
Novombor 8—-Stato Froshmon.
Novombor 15—Pitt Froshmon.
Coach Guy Ilalferty gavo a short 
talk in which ho declared tho pros- 
pocts for cross country were much 
brighter than they were last year. 
Practically all of tho letter men aro 
back, Including Captain Howdy Dylco- 
man, who is nationally known ln crows 
country circles. Dykonmn was con­
ceded «in oxeollont chance of making 
the Olympic team last June, but Ill­
ness provonted him from competing. 
Ho in in good health now, and should 
he able to show his heels to the host 
of them.
BIG HIKE FOR GIRLS 
THURSDAY AFFERN00N
List of articles needed: One pair
walking shoes, ono largo appetito, and 
lots of pop. For tho Women's Ath­
letic Association is pulling oil’ a rog- 
ular hike Thursday aftornoon at four- 
thirty.
Notices have boon posted on tho 
bullotin boards and all girls wishing 
to go, moaning ovory girl In the 
sohool,'should sign up as soon as pos­
sible In order to inauro a auflloieut 
food supply.
Tho main foaturo of tho hiko tor 
tho ovor hungry Maggio Murphs will 
bo tho supper which will bo cookod ln 
tho woods at tho ond of tho trail.
This is absolutely tho first chance 
for Froshmon to start earning tho 
hundred athletic points which will 
win them a sweater. For tho upper* 
classinoli it will ho an opportunity to 
add ono moro point to tholr already 
largo total.
So wo hopo to soo all tho girls or 
Tooli assemble Thursday afternoon 
and givo tho Athletic Association tho 
nocossary boost to start tho biggest 
year In Its history.
All girls wishing to play In tho ton- 
j uhi doubles will be asked to sign up 
i soon, In order to got theso off at the 
propor timo.
With the first game of the 192-1 foot­
ball season marked dowu on the right 
side of the ledger tho Tartans will 
spend the rest of the week preparing 
for thoir next opponent, Thiol college 
of Greenville, Pa.
Thiel has always boen an early 
season opponent for Carnegie, bring­
ing a fast, hard lighting aud clean 
playing team. They have never 
roachod the point of being dangorous, 
but this year reports from Greeuvillo 
say that Thiel is out to hold Carnegie 
Tech. to a lower score than ever be­
fore. Coach Tommy Holleran was 
very well pleased with tho tho work 
of his charges against Baldwin-Wal- 
lace, whom they defeated 7 to 0. The 
score would have been much larger if 
Thiel had been moro familiar with 
Ohio Conference rules; this ignor­
ance cost them 125 yards in penalties.
Pittsburgh fans aro more or less fa­
miliar with Toni Holleran, star quar­
terback for I)itt several years back. 
He is a studeht of the Warner coach­
ing school and will probably employ 
many of the Old Fox’s methods 
against Carnegie this Saturday. This 
will give the Plaid plenty of valuable 
practice against Pitt plays.
Thiol has' several veterans on their 
team this year, among them Dands, 
McCoy, Vassia, Raub and Jamisou. 
Among the new men Htizen, at guard, 
and Olander, sub fullback, showed 
particularly well in tho opener last 
Saturday. As was said before Thiol 
is not oxpected to prove dangorous, 
but they will give tho Tartan’s a hard 
run. Coach Stoffon expects to tryout 
some oL’ his best plays in this gamo 
as a preliminary practice for W. and 
J. two woolcs later, so tho gamo with 
tho Lutherans this Saturday will act 
as a stopping stone to tho Rod and 
Black gamo at Little Washington.
Tho Plaid lineup will ho stronger 
and faster with Donahoo back at Ilia 
old position at right halfback. Tho 
Edgowood flash Is getting along nlco- 
ly and much is expoctod of him dur­
ing tho remainder of the soason. With 
the exception of right halfback, tho 
Tartan lineup will be tho same as that 
which faced' Dayton In tho oponor.
Thoufjht for tho Day.
There aro people who I’eel under, 
no obligations to help In any worthy 
cause unless thoy are solicited.
One of the largest crowds ever to witness an opening game was on hand 
to greet the 1924 Skibo eleven. The cheering, while a little weak at times, 
was good and promises much for the future.
The Plebes meet Slippery Rock Normal in the preliminary to the Car- 
negie-Thiel clash in the Carnegie Bowl next Saturday. Both games should 
be exciting enough for the most rabid fan.
Beede and Mefort deserve unstinted praise for the manner in which they 
worked that spinner play on several occasions. Many of the spectators de­
clared after the game that although they watched very closely they them­
selves could not tell who had the ball.
I guess we don’t have some rush line, eh? Not a single first down was 
registered through our line by the heavier Dayton team. That augurs well 
for the future.
It is hard to beat a team that plays head-up football. That sort of play­
ing enabled. Manby to be right oh deck to snatch up a fumble and run for 
the first touchdown. May we have many more like that during the season.
PLAID DEFEATS DAYTON,
14-3, AS A STARTER
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
(Continued From Page One.) 
bled the pigskin. Manby, alert cen­
ter of the Tartans, scooped up the 
ball and hurried it across the goal 
line for the first touchdown of the 
1924 local season. Bastlan kicked 
the resultant /goal, giving Carnegie 
the lead which they retained through­
out.
There was no more scoring until 
the third quarter. Coach Steffen had 
explained a new course of action to 
his proteges between halves, and they 
came back onto the field prepared to 
do or die. One touchdown was not a 
safe margin, they knew. They waded 
into their heavier opponents and in a 
short time had worked their way to 
the enemy’s 10-yard line. At this 
point Beede tried one of his success­
ful spinner plays and carried the ball
over the line for the second touch­
down. Bastian again kicked the goal, 
the score then being 14-3.
The team did not show spectacular­
ly as in the days of Robertson and 
Brumbaugh In thai no real long runs 
were made, but there v/as enough 
power and smoothnoss visible to 
please even the most critical Tartan
supporter. The team seems td be
well balanced, fast and knows a great 
deal of football. It Is a smart foot­
ball team, as far as football tactics 
are concerned, and should improve as 
the season advances. The baclifleld Is 
heavier than those of recent years, 
and lacks only experience to make it 
of maximum effectiveness.
The playing of Beeds, Bastlan, Me­
fort, Manby and Captain Newman 
stood out above that of some of the
other men, but the entire team de­
serves praise for their excellent show­
ing in the opener. In the fourth quar­
ter whon the visitors launched tholr 
aerial attack it was Captain Newman 
who saved tho day by intercepting a 
couplo of long passes which would 
have workod havoc had thoy boon 
completed. Bastlan did somo wonder­
ful work In running buck punts, while 
Newman out-punted ovory ono of, his 
rivals. Boode gives promise of devel­
oping into another Brumbaugh, while 
Mefore continues to tear around on 
those end plays. Manby’s passing 
from tho snapper-back position was 
very good, and in addition he distin­
guished hlmseir by scoring the first 
touchdown. The line was so good 
that only one first down was regis­
tered against it in the entire game. 
One disappointing feature was the 
failure of the ends to cut down their 
opposing end on the runs from punt 
formation. This has always been one 
of Carnegie’s best and most consist­
ent ground gainers, but did not .seem 
to work so well Saturday. However, 
it takes time to get going in all de­
partments, and as the season gets 
older things will begin to pick up.
The Carnegie kiltie band, famed 
throughout the country, lived up to Its 
reputation by rendering some very 
good music. The cheering also was 
very good for an opening game. By 
the time Pitt is met everything will 
be going at top speed.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech—14 Dayton U.—3
Mpfort.............. L. E. .. .Boershinger
Kristof.................. L. T........Belanik
Anderson......... L. G.................Strosnlder
Manby.................... C.................... Yagow
Cass.................... R. G............(C.) VIrant
Yoder.................. It. T.............................Hart
Hable. It. E.............................Ilipa
Bastlan................ Q............................Malirt
Nowman (C.)., L. IT, ...................Achieu
Wortonbergor. R. II.........................Weber
Beede.,,............... F. ......................Grace
Score by quartern:
Tocl............................. .........0 7 7 0—14
Dayton ................0 3 0 0— ',\
Touchdowns: Carnegie Tech
Manby. Beede. Points following 
touchdowns: Tech—Bastlan 2. Field 
goal: Dayton—Achieu.
Substitutions — Carnegie — None. 
Dayton—Cabrlnha for Weber, Moir 
for Achieu, Snclling for Grace, Mc- 
Garry for Mahrt.
Referee—Dan Daugherty, W. & J. 
Umpire—Mehegan, Cleveland. Lines­
man—H. J. Blum.
Collegiate Barber
FIRST-CLASS SERVICE 
Shlnqlo Bobbinq 
Hnto Cloanod Shomi Shlnod
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
THE FRATERNITY 
OF BUSINESS
B<udn now to forni tho niiiioclntionn 
mid hahltn Unit, will iwrvo you who» you onùir tlio buttinomi world. A 
lumie account, nitido' from tlio tun- idblo value, furnliihoii oxiwrioneo 
anil conlaclii which will oituraUt to your advantage In lator yonrn.
Tho iMirttonal Intorcnl of Motion of- (lcurn in tho financial wolfaro of 
doponitor» hi ono of tho outntnndln>: chnractcrlntlcH of tho lniitltutlon. 
Our cxpcrlonco and buHlnoiia judjj- rnonfc aro at your Bcrvlco.
Capital nnd Surplun $12,000.000.00
Mellon Naiional Bank
Schenley Coffee Shop 
and Delicatessen
8CHENLEY APARTMENTS 
FORBES STREET
Tho Ideal place four your 
theater party1.
Wo handle the fluent of Im­
ported and 'domestic food lUulTs, 
.lust the things you need for 
yet in' next dormitory party.
"Wlmt nro you clolnrr, Pyth—• 
writing Her another letter f”
Pythias—
"No—not thin time. Something 
more to tho point, tin one would 
say. I’m writing tho Pator to 
nend mo iidozcii Klriorudu pencil». 
They are all «old out dowu at 
tho storo.”
VOL.XINo
¿Ac master chawing penc/r
17 l«fe—.11 J„l„,
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
j NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
! Tech Barber 
Shop
! FORBES near CRAIG-
COLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE)FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
Carnegie Chemical 
Grad Gains Renown
C. Carlton Smith Now on U. 
of Cincinnati Faculty
In tho recent developments in the 
industrial chemistry field which hue 
mado AmbEg -rapid strides ah«id in 
tho last few yearB in the United 
States, we find a CaJrnegio man well 
established and) making a nume for 
himself.
G. Carlton Smith, who is now {in 
associate professor of chemistry en­
gineering at tho University of Cin­
cinnati, has achieved wide renown 
as an Industrial chemist.
Since he has been connected, with 
tho university ho hus, according to 
the American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers, the host industrial lahra- 
tory in tho United States. His spec­
ialty being high explosives and pe­
troleum.
During the Worldl War previous 
to America's entrance, Professor 
Smith was chiof organic chomlst for' 
tho British Government in tho Pitts­
burgh district. After America’s en­
trance he came to Carnegie Tech a.s 
an instructor in chemical watrfare. 
He hero developed a number of pro­
cesses by which explosives can bo 
made in larger quantities and in a 
¦ safer and more continuous manner.
Professor Smith received his scien­
tific training at Carnegie where ho 
entered in September, 1010, and 
graduated! with a Bachelor of Sci­
ence degree in Chemical Engineer? 
ing in 11)15. He went to the Univer­
sity of Cincinnati in 1920 with whom 
he ha« since been connected.
STUDENT DIRECTORY TO
BE ISSUED IN OCTOBER
(Continued From Png© Ono.)
pll that Js incidental to tho real ad­
vantages of tho directory.
To make sure that tho idea would 
recolvo a hearty \receptlon a can­
vass was mado of tho officials and 
.. faculty, as well as promlnont stu-
donts. Tho project has received Dr. 
^ Bailor’s unqualified approval. So
. with Doan Brown and Doan TarboM,
tho Studont Council, tho Y. M. C. A.,
. Dr. Church of tho Board of Titus- 
loos, “Mldgo” Motlor, Dr. Rlttman 
and so on and infinitum, 
j . Thoro tromnina much to bo said 
ahout tho dlroct.ory, but wo aron't 
îolng to give out all tho nows ln 
this Issue of Tho Carnegie Tartan. 
Sufl'lco to say that, this directory 
will ho placed on tho Campus about; 
tho third week In Octohor. So bo 
patient and keep your oyo opon. for 
tho lltflo publicity stunts which Will 
herald tho approach of the Carnegie 
Toch Studlont Directory,
PLEBE MENTAL TESTS
WILL BE GIVEN OCTOBER 2
(Continued From, Pago One.)
) moms are similar to written class | 
'I room exorcises so that nothing un-1 
»)' usual or out of tho ordinary need he ' 
anticipated by tho persons taking the 
touts. Students should eomo pro* 
pared to make tho host showing pos­
sible on the tests, In other, words, 
tho tests are offered to members of 
tho Eroshmau classes as an opportun­
ity for each studont to demonstrate 
what ho can do If given a ehanco.
Position of Advantage.
Barnes (to Shodd, who has Just fin­
ished a long letter)—"Funny that you 
should write long letters to your \vlfo 
when you have so little to say to her 
whon oho la present." Shodd—"Not 
nt nil. When I a ni writing I have tho 
fluor.”—Boston Transcript.
| CLAN NEWS j
NEW YORK CLAN
Tho Now York Clan has arranged 
.to hold a dinner dance at the Cafe 
Boulevard, Fortieth «troot off Broad­
way. Several stunts havo boon ar­
ranged. Effort 1A being mado to 
havo some Carnegie songs, jdayed by 
üio orchestra, broadcasted on that 
evening. This will he a novel fea­
ture, and at tho same time It will 
advertise Carnegie.
Tho members of tho committee ln 
charge of this affair ore working 
hard. They1 invito and urge that all 
former Carnegie men and women ar­
range to attend.
Additional information will be fur­
nished by J. A. Cameron, President 
of tho New York Clan, 115 Park ave­
nue, Tuchahoo, New York.
FATHER’S DAY WILL BE 
CELEBRATED ON NOV.
Following tho precedent establish­
ed at Carnegie last year which 
proved immensely popular, a second 
annual Father's Day program has 
been arranged for November 1 this 
fall*.
On that day, ovory student who 
can, will certainly have his parents 
here to spend a day on tho Campus. 
Bringi them, hero and give them a 
closeup of -college life and its sur­
roundings.
Tho program for this day, as far 
as it has been completed, will bo 
similar to the ono followod last 
yeair. The morning will be devoted 
to inspection of tho schools where 
various exhibits will bo shown. The 
athletic attraction for tho day will 
be the football gamo in. tho after 
noon with Western Maryland College 
in tho Toch Bowl. Following the 
game, a supper will be served In the 
commons for tho purpose of wel­
coming the guests and getting ac­
quainted.
Make your plans early and come 
and enjoy a day on the Campus.
Palestine's Deep Valley.
The deepest valley Is believed to be 
in Palestine; It Is nt least 1,800 feet 
helow the level of the sea.
Craig Restaurant
Tho placo where all tho follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
Tho place where all good fel­
lows moot and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 85c plate dinner, in­
cluding dessort.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
TheOnly^\ 
*& Squirrel Hill 
X^LOVEI? SHOP^/
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hnzol G1 9 Near Forbco
-H* 'I-X-vv v v* *.'*<• *v**X‘ %••> v v
I Oakland Savings & | 
ï Trust Co.
Member Federal Reservo 
System.
Capital...........................$300,000.00 £
Surplus..........................$300,000.00 £
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 X
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
V
L
Are you planning a 
happy celebration?
q^ch Flower Shot
4527 FORBES ST. him CKM 
a ipada.ffp O.bc7 pw.7cu78V^nSÇURCH^ 4272 (&>'
rENUS 
PENCILS
(ZV liJjvif itlli:) 
yv/inl in the mill!
"T’OR the student or prof., the 
-*- superb VENUS out-rivals 
all for perfect pencil work. 17 blnck degrees—3 copying. 
America» Lead 
Pencil Co.
Writo for bool;lot on 2XCAR Pencils and 2XCAE EVEHI'OINTED Mechanical I'cnclln
DR. AND MRS. HAMERSCHLAG’S ! 
CABLEGRAM ARRIVES LATE
Last year’s graduates left school 
before the following telegram ar­
rived, meant for tholr commence­
ment. It is from Dr. and Mrs. Ham- 
Orsehlag and /was sent from Ilen- 
goloo:
"Congratulations graduates, their 
opportunity commencing caireers are 
splendid remembrance to faculty."
Dr. and Mrs. Homerschhig recent­
ly returned from Europe.
Special Night Courses 
For Auto Mechanics
PGH. VARSITY CLANS 
AT JOINT LUNCHEON
First Joint Lunch of These 
Clans Held Saturday at 
Carnegie Inn
Entrance Requirements Made 
Lighter For Subjects
TYPEWRITER 
FOR SALE
CORONA PORTABLE
Slightly used.
$40.00 
Schenley 0140
CleaningPressing
The Schenley~ 
Tailor Co.
420 SOUTH CRAIG
Next door to gents’ furnishers. 
TAILOR FOR THE STUDENTS 
We do llrst-class altering for 
reasonable prices. 
Prompt Delivery Service. 
Schenley 1538 
Dyeing Repairing
As a result of the growing need 
among automobile mechanics for 
more technical knowledge of their 
work, and in response to the demand 
to moet this need, several' special 
night courses for auto mechanics will 
be offered this year at Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, according to an 
announcement. In order to adjust 
these courses to meet the demands 
of everyone engaged in auto repair 
work, it is further announced, all aca­
demic requirements In connection 
with the evening courses have been 
withdrawn. This important move 
now makes it possible for anyone to 
enroll in the night classes at Carnegie 
regardless or previous education.
Although the courses have been ar­
ranged primarily for auto mechanics 
with experience, no restrictions as to 
previous trade experience have been 
placed upon any applicant. In fact, 
the only restriction upon any appli­
cant is that he must be at leaBt 17 
years of age.
The night courses include one on 
General Automobile Repairs, and ono 
on Electric Starting and Lighting 
Systems. Each is seven months in 
length, and classes will be held two 
evenings each week during the night 
school year from October to May. A 
properly qualified students, says the 
announcement, may take either 
course.
The contents of the course in Gen­
eral Automobile Repairs will include 
instruction in automobile motor and 
chassis, and carburetion and ignition. 
Tlio course on Electric Starting and 
Lighting Systems will crinsist of study 
ol! starting, lighting and ignition sys­
tems, acetylene welding, and storage 
battery repair.
Although students will not roglstor 
for theso night auto courses until Oc­
tober 1, 2 and 8, a report indicatos 
that there has already noon a. large 
nurnbor of applications filed. Employ­
ers of automobile mechanics aro also 
roportod to be showing unusual inter­
est and are encouraging their men to 
talco ono or both of tho coursos at 
Carnogle Toch tills year. Tho first 
(dassos aro schodulod to begin Mon­
day evening, October (1.
Y. M. C. A. MEMBERSHIP
ENROLLMENT OCT. 7, 8, 9, 10
(Continued From Pago Ono)
Ing tho school year, It furnishes 
nmusomont during tho vacations for 
tile students who remain ln tho city. 
Tho co-operation It lends to the Stu­
dont Employment Bureau and tho 
branches of tho Pittsburgh Y Is great­
ly appreciated by these organizations.
Each year delegations aro sent to 
the Silver Bay Y. M. C. A. Confer­
ence and the Studont Volunteer Con­
vention which tends to acquaint out­
siders with Curneglo and its activi­
ties. The Y. club rooms in tho Cen­
tral Building and Scobell Hall are al­
ways opon to the students and have 
proven to be a wonderful conven­
ience. Those who have attended the 
Sunday afternoon services in the dor­
mitory Y club room can appreciate 
the real benefits derived from the ef­
forts of the Y to bring the boys in 
the dorms in closer contact and un­
derstanding with the problems of life.
These aforementioned activities 
will give the student a closer insight 
to the scope of the Y’s influence on 
campus life. An authority from the 
East, who has visited every campus 
east of the Mississippi has been heard 
to state: "Wherever the Y is on the
campus the college spirit is far above 
that of the campus without a "Y’\ 
SUch a statement goes to prove the 
true value and benefit of the Y.
Taking into consideration all of the 
aforementioned factors the students 
should realize the need of a bigger 
and better Y. Get-behind the com­
mittee and make this a one hundred 
per cent enrollment. It can be done 
so let’s say it will be done.
Remember to have your money on 
October 7, S, 9 and 10.
At one o’clock on Saturday, the 
doors to the New Carnegie Inn were 
swung open, and the first joint Pitts­
burgh and Varsity Clan was in pro­
gress.
The guests wandered around 
through the building, marveling at the 
changes which had been made to cre­
ate tho wonderful clubhouse from the 
old Field House of former days. The 
Carnegie Inn furnishes an excellent 
place to hold such luncheons during 
football season. It is very handy to 
the field, and the service and sur­
roundings are delightful.
The first luncheon was well attend­
ed, having nearly one hundred guests. 
Among those present were Dr. Baker, 
Coach "Wally" Steffen, "Buddy" 
Overend, and members of the fac­
ulty.
Coach Steffen spoke about the pos­
sibilities of the football team for the 
year. He said that he did not wish 
the people to expect too much from 
the team, but that lie hoped for the 
best.
While the guests were being served 
and eating, music -was furnished by 
the Collegiate Imps. It was good, and 
was appreciated by all the guests.
One thing was very noticeable at 
this luncheon. Many of the people 
who had made reservations for the 
luncheon were not present. This con­
dition cannot exist if thci'se luncheons 
are to be a success. The committee 
asks that all those who intend to 
come to these luncheons make reser­
vations, hut that they attend, after 
having made them.
An announcement of the next Joint 
Clan Luncheon which is to be held 
'(luring the football season will be 
made later.
two extended tours each year in­
vading Ohio and Western Pennsyl­
vania. This year Manager Sload 
plans to take the clubs East and 
show the world that all the talent 
and pep does not rise with the sun 
in that part of the country.
Next Sunday, at the same time, 
2:30, in the Exhibition Room, tho 
Gleo Cllub will hold tlio Hirst regu­
lar rehearsal, and1 in the Union the 
Mandolin Club will have its rehear­
sal. It is hoped by the leaders of 
each organization that moro now 
men will come out for they hope to 
pick tho best from the largest num­
ber. Last year there were over 150 
mon on the roll of the Glee Club, 
and neairly that many on the Mando-
FORMER PSYCHOLOGY PROF. ; 
MARRIED IN WASHINGTON i
Former students and graduates of 
the Psychology department will be 
pleased to learn of the marriage of 
Dr. L. L. Thurstone to Miss Thelma 
Gwinn. Both are well known at Car­
negie and the Carnegie Tartan is cer­
tainly expressing the desire of the 
alumni and students in wishing them 
the best of luck.
TELESCOPEWill Give Number of 
Part-Time Courses
Former C. I. T. Stude 
Joins Exploring Party
H. L. Smith and Friends Will 
Enter French Guiana
H. Leslie Smith, a former student 
of Carnegie Tech in the Electrical 
Engineering Department, will sail 
from New York in the near futmre 
bound for French Guiana in South 
America. The purpose of the expe­
dition is gold, rare birds, animals 
and adventure, mostly adiventure.
Smlth7 the scientist of the party, 
is accompanied by George E. Green- 
ley, Jr., and John E. Murphy, two 
World War veterans, and with them 
will explore and map a region, 
which few, if any white men, have 
ever penetrated.
The first stage of the trip up the 
Mana river, will be with natives and 
a donkey pack train. Later canoes 
will be lusedl and our explorers will 
go by portage where the rapids make 
the river impassable.
When Smith was asked how long 
the party planned to be gone, he 
shrugged his shoulders and said: 
‘Who knows? We don’t. Maybe six 
months. Maybe six years. Maybe 
longer, there is no telling.”
lin Club roll. This season should be 
the one when all attendance records1 
are broken. Turn out enmasse next 
Sunday.
Hot Water Pipes Burst.
Plumbers have asserted that cold wa­
ter pipes suiter comparatively little 
damage from freezing, and that frozen 
pipes of the hot water system burst 
four times as frequently. Recent tests 
seem to justify this conclusion. Test 
tubes of boiled and unboiled tap water 
in equal number were exposed at sev­
eral times to varying temperatures be­
low freezing point and the boiled wa­
ter tubes Invariably broke first, while 
at the end of the experiments 44 of 
these had burst and only four of the 
unboiled water tubes. The boiled wa­
ter formed clear, solid Ice; the un­
boiled Ice filled with air bulbs that re­
lieved, like cushions, the pressure 
caused by freezing.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
MUSICAL CLUBS HAVE
LARGE INITIAL TURNOUT
(Continued From Page" Ono.) 
tion which will iqompot© favorably 
with tho Protjldont.*« own, tliQy Ma­
rino Band, and which will rival tho 
Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. 
Howovor, ho would lilco a fow moro 
percussion string Instruments. In 
addition to this tho wood-wind sooi 
tion can stand a fow moro clarinets 
and oboes. Anyono who plays either 
or both will bo welcome.
Tho old men came back as is the 
custom. The officers hold a short 
business . meeting, which was im­
promptu, and they havo outined a 
program of concerts wlr>h will 
eclipse any other. For the benefit 
of the new .men afoUnd school, it 
will be well to say that the concerts 
are given in the neighborir- towns 
until the clubs are well uivi r way, 
then the big trips come. T!, > i-lubs 
. 1 have jeen in the habit of taking
BALTIMORE—President, Arthur W. Crownover, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Bromo Selt/.er Tower Building,* Vice President, 
<!. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments, Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets ; Secretary and Treasurer, P. II. Dickey, 1313 "Contin­
ental Building.
BOSTON—Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollas­
ton, Mass.
BUFFALO—President, R. G. Townsend, 22 Bidwell Parkway; Vice 
President, B. A. Lutton, 288 Saranac Avenue; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGO—President, J. B. Patterson, Ravinia, 111.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MacCaughey, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, 111.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, 0. Lundy, 5475 Kimbark Avenue, 
Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATI—Secretary, J. W. Batman, care Jolms-Manville Co.
CLEVELAND—President, George A. Ebeling, Newman-Stern Build­
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. J. Montgomery, 492 East lOStli 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington 
Avenue.
CONNECTICUT—President, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, K. W. Fin- 
laj'-, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTON—President, Fred Flader, 2505 West Riverview Avenue; 
Vice President, F. W. Heckert, 1127 Grafton Avenue; Secre­
tary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Grafton Avenue.
DETROIT—President, W. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse E. & M. 
Company, 1535 Sixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. H. 
Miles, Miles-Appleby Company, 4612 Woodward Avenue.
ERIE—Secretary and Treasurer, Edwin Gross, care Hammermill 
Paper Company. ' i
HARRISBURG—President, John G. Todd, 20% North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Wood­
bine Street, Harrisburg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Skaub, 20% 
North Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, G. D. Whitney, 
2604 Derry Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.—Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
JOHNSTOWN—Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
LOS ANGELES—Secretary and Treasurer, Frederick Kindi, 2201 
Mineral Avenue.
NEW YORK—President, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Westches­
ter Park, Tuckalioe, S. Y.; Vice President, M. L. Patterson, 
86 Palisade Avenue, Bogota, N. J.; Secretary and Treasurer, 
E. M. Gretzi’er, National Supply Corporation, 120 Broadwajr.
NORFOLK—President, T. 1). Fit /gibbon, Sll Ilolt Street; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA—President, Paul W. Emmel, 5710 North Seventh 
Street; Vico President, L. E. Exline, 213 South 47th Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, Dorothy E. Steinmacher, 909 Clinton 
Street.
PITTSBURGH—President, M. R. Walton, 5838 Alderson Avenue.
SAINT LOUIS—President, Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jefferson Road, 
Webster Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 
Waverly Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Secretary, Nelson F. 
Rice, 1064 Arcade Building; Treasurer, M. A. Zeller, 212S 
Railway Exchange Building.
TULSA—Temporary Secretary, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 S. Quaker St.
WASHINGTON, D. C.—President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Miss Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, 
N. W.; Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington 
Place, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN—President, W. N. Flanagan, 140 South Portland 
Street; Vice President, R. P. Woodward, 165 Carroll Street;
i Secretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Boulveard.
Have you had a look at the Clan 
Directory lately? It has been en-j 
larged a good deal. That augurs well; 
for the future. There will, of course, j 
not be a great deal to publish now j 
until the football season is over, but j 
the clans should keep up their Car-j 
negie spirit. The class of ’24 has now I 
joined the various clans and we de-; 
pend upon them to help fire the old j 
enthusiasm in the earlier grads.
The matter of the name with whicb- 
our school should be associated in the 
minds of the public has been brought 
up again. Only the other day, a let­
ter appeared on the bulletin boards 
addressed to Tech University. Why 
not let us know how you clansmen 
feel about it. Is Tech good enough 
as a name, or should we educate the 
public to speak of Carnegie? Per­
haps the undergraduates are only fan­
cying the trouble arising when one 
enters tho territory of another 
“Tech”. You alumni are the ones 
that can speak with authority upon 
that point. We await the expression 
of your sentiment in this matter. The 
campaign has now reached a crucial 
stage. We must decide one way or 
another in this matter. Your silence 
will mean your consent.
The graduates of 1924 will be glad 
to read of the telegram sent to them 
by Dr. I-Iamerschlag from abroad. A 
telegram which was unfortunately de­
layed.
Father’s Day this year should be a 
great success. An innovation is al­
ways difficult and now that the ice 
was broken last year, the alumni 
should join with the students in bring­
ing their fathers to Carnegie for that 
one Saturday, it will gladden the 
hearts of the visitors and will help 
bring about better relations in the 
big Carnegie family.
Classes Arranged For Three 
Different Groupings
TEKNON CLUB ACTIVITIES
OPEN THURSDAY EVENING
Teknon Club will hold i,ts first meet­
ing of the college year on Thursday 
evening, October 9, at 6 o’clock in the 
Shadyside Presbyterian church.
As in former years, Dr. Hugh 
Thompson Kerr will have charge of 
the club's discussions. The officers 
of the organization have been arrang­
ing an attractive program for the 
opening night and it is hoped that the 
entire membership will respond by be­
ing present.
Teknon is headed this year by E. 
C. Frazier, president; Isabel Sowash, 
vice president: Edith Warren, secre­
tary, and R. E. Hughes, treasurer. As 
has been the custom, the members 
will dine at six, taking up the discus­
sion of certain aspects of tho world’s 
problems and their Christian solu­
tions, under the leadership of Dr. 
Kerr at the conclusion of the meal.
Most Famous Nickname.
Of all American nicknames the 
most famous is “Stonewall.” Not 
more than one person id ten kn^ws 
what Jackson’s real name was. The 
general did just the reverse of Steph­
en Grover Cleveland, Thomas Wood-J 
row Wilson, Isaac Wayne MacVeagh | 
and others who cut off one of their 
names. Jackson added one to his 
when he grew to manhood; but no­
body calls him by either of them. It 
Is always “Stonewall."
An extensive program of part-time 
courses will be given during the com­
ing college year at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, says an announce­
ments Practically all of the part-time 
classes are scheduled to begin during 
next week.
For this year, the part-time work 
has been divided into three separate 
groups. Group A classes will carry 
college credit and are designed pri­
marily for teachers and those plan­
ning to enter the teaching profession. 
The classes in Group B have been ar­
ranged to meet the needs of special 
groups of students, and the Group C 
courses include the Saturday morning 
classes for high school and prepa­
ratory students, all of the work in 
this grouping to be given in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts.
Most of the courses In Group A, 
which are designed to meet tile needs 
of teachers who wish to qualify for 
the new state requirements for teach­
ing certificates, for those who wish.to 
prepare to teach special subjects, and 
for teachers who wish to .prepare for 
the higher grades of teaching certifi­
cates, will be given 'in the College of 
Fine Arts and Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College. A wide range of 
courses in both normal art and pub­
lic school music will be given, and 
in Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege, several courses in home econom­
ics will be offered.
For the first semester of the coming 
year, the Department of Social Work 
of the 'Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College will give a number of special 
courses to social workers. As prac­
tically all of these classes will be ar­
ranged to suit the convenience of the 
students, no definite schedule lias yet 
been announced for the conducting 
of them. A course in Roll Pass De­
sign and another in Treating and 
Testing Steel will be given as part- 
time classes this year by the College 
of Engineering.
The purpose of the Saturday morn­
ing classes, it is announced, is to 
awaken talent and stimulate interest 
in the arts, and to give a number of 
students an opportunity for testing 
and developing their natural ability. 
The courses do not duplicate courses 
given in high or preparatory schools, 
but are intended to supplement art 
instruction given elsewhere. Satur­
day morning classes, in numerous sub­
jects, will be given this year in the 
College of Fine Arts by the Depart­
ments of Painting and Illustration, 
Applied Art, Sculpture, Architecture 
i'.nd Music.
Registrations for the part-time 
classes this year, it is reported, have 
been even higher than those of a year 
ago. The teacher enrollment in par­
ticular, according to the report, lias 
been unusually high in the part-time 
courses throughout the Institute.
FEW SONG BOOKS OF SECOND 
EDITION STILL OBTAINABLE
Useless Tree Yields Rubber.
A species of tree of unlimited 
growth in Natal, heretofore regarded 
as worthless commercially, has been 
found to yield a juice that contains 
rubber in large quantities.
Alumni and former students who 
have not yet obtained Carnegie 
Song Book aire offered another op­
portunity to do so, as a few books 
of the second edition still remain. 
Orders ¦with a check for ?L10 should 
be sent to the Carnegie Song Book 
Staff, care ‘C. I. T Post Office. No 
orders accepted unless remittances 
are made in advance.
Dress Suits To Rent
The full dress and tuxedo suits we have for RENT have 
been tailored with a ripe understanding of the
“College Man’s Requirements”
The garments fit precisely, but comfortably, and have a 
desirable measure of dignity. Head to foot outfitters. 
Largest stock between New York and Chicago
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE 
.Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH 
Hours: 8:30-5:30
LUXENDEMG
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
himCKMg
Showing At 
WILLIAM PENN 
HOTEL 
Friday and Saturday, 
October 3 and 4
