Crowding Faced up to
by Paul Smith
Various methods of handling the over* 
crowding in the dorms was just one of 
many topics discussed by Dr. Richard Van 
Horn, Vice President for Business Affairs, 
an interview with * the Tartan. Other areas 
were size of the freshmen class, complaints 
about the Architecture department, and 
methods of protecting the outdoor gradua­
tion ceremony.
“Removial of juniors and seniors from 
the dorms next year, would absolutely be 
the last resort’* responded Van Horn, to 
queries-about how to handle the overcrowd­
ing in the dorms. We don’t feel that to re­
move them would either be fair to the stu­
dents or wise in the area of education to 
tne freshman. Since the upperclassmen 
provide so much additional input to the 
freshman both academically and socially. 
Other possible suggestions being considered 
were: changing Doherty Graduate House 
from marred students to undergraduate
housing, providing additional housing for 
150 students. Reclaim all houses along 
Woodlawn and Roselawn drive (near the 
Co-ops) remodeling them and using them 
as housing for either upperclassmen or for 
a sorority. Moving some or all of the sor- 
oratles from Morewood Gardens would 
open additional space there. Movement by 
a sorority would only be made if they so 
desired. The University would prefer an 
organized body of students like a sorority 
in this housing, because they would take 
better care of the facilities. However, Pres­
ident Cyert at a recent News conferance 
said “that such a plan is unlikely since, this 
would mean removing some residents who 
have lived there 20 or 30 years, which 
hardly is fair.” Another possible long 
range plan would be to have a private de­
veloper build on leased CMU property 
an apartment style dormitory which the 
the students would have first crack at 
renting. Any space left ovei would be 
rented on the commercial markbt. However
Cyert added when asked about this, "it 
would take a great deal more evidence to 
convince me that this is the wav to ro. But 
it is an interesting idea and one which 
should be explored.”
The university was interested in the Ra- 
mada inn site in downtown OaKiana, as a 
dorm, however, the costs were felt to be 
too high. At the same time Van Horn felt 
that CMU should be expanding away from 
the congested Oakland Area, towards the 
Squirrel Hill or Shadyside areas instead. 
For those reasons the University is looking 
for an apartment house in those areas for 
the fall, but nothing has been signed as of 
yet.
While the tuition will be going up, the 
number of freshman and transfer students 
will be down somewhat, from this years, 
high 1140 Freshman and 170 transfer stu­
dents, to a projected enrollment of 980 
Freshmen and 150 transfer students. Even 
with allowing for normal attrition over the 
year the school’s total enrollment will go¦ tartan
October 7, 1975 Volume 76 Number 3
3-D Enrollment Evaluated
by Claire Lee
Now that students, teachers and admin­
istrators have finally begun to settle into 
the school year, evaluations of the Enroll­
ment Day procedures used on Sept. 2 are 
being collected through a series of meetings 
and debriefings.
Ten days after the premiere of the ex­
perimental process an enrollment meeting 
was held on Sept. 12 with representatives 
from different administrative departments 
present. Frank Craig (of Information 
Services) commented, among other things, 
about time assignment cards not being ad­
hered to, about the review of add/drop 
and cross-registration procedures and that 
monthly statements should be sent out 
August 25. Walter Cathie from Financial 
Aid stressed that “some stnHmt« «•''imed
their packets the Housing and Food 
charges were already included. Maybe it 
would be better to “send out full set of 
charges with bills and let them make selec­
tions.” He also hoped the drop process 
may be improved and speeded up- which 
took students 4 1/2 hours to effect. Mike 
Corletti of Security recommended having 
“one more security person at the main 
door of the gym” and having “aisles estab­
lished at Financial Aid’s and the Cashier’s 
sections.”
On Sept. 18 an enrollment debriefing 
was also held among faculty and depart­
mental secretaries, 'lheir comments can oe 
summed up in the statement of Tom Miles 
(English). “All in all, things went very 
well.” The general procedure was viewed as 
sound, but there were still a great multi­
tude of weaknesses which needed working 
out. Some of these included unclear in­
formation to students and teachers con­
cerning registration, lack of accurate class 
lists, intra-university departmental transfer 
problems, failure of add/drop transactions 
being recorded and many other general
oiid specific “headaches” for those present.
In a TARTAN interview, Bill Elliott 
(VP for Enrollment Planning) said that 
with the 3-D Enrollment Day process “we 
are on the right track.” He called it a “suc­
cess” in that those involved found out 
what had gone right as well as what had 
gone wrong. He suggested that some of 
the major weaknesses were the problems 
involving incomplete and revised class 
schedules, the late PAN’s, and newly ac­
cumulated bills which were not on the 
statement sent out earlier to the students. 
He also stated that the add/drop card and 
the 3-D form will be redesigned for more 
efficient future use. Elliot concluded by 
saying that the registration process used 
to change every year and now “a model” 
has been found that will last- it will pro­
vide some consistent method by which 
students will hopefully make fewer mis­
takes in the procedure.
Dean Swank is planning further eval­
uations of the process through meetings 
with various student committees and 
groups in the near future.
Asian Experiance Offered
Photo by Kathi Laicther
William Elliott
they had difficulty understanding state­
ments and that the PAN’s (Personal Action 
Notices) were late, causing grads to stand 
in line.” Cathie also said that Richard Van 
Horn (Vice President for Business Affairs) 
suggests that in state loan situations 
students be allowed to “sign short-term 
promissory notes pending arrival of state 
loan checks or perhaps monthly interest 
charges on balance.” Picture taking proce­
dures for food services (Rita Cohen) went 
smoothly, except for some problems with 
upperclassmen.
Dean Swank also made a few remarks. 
He stated that when Freshmen picked up
The Luce Scholars Program offers 15 
“young Americans an experience in Asia 
designed both to broaden their profession­
al perspectives and to sharpen their percep­
tions of Asia.” Participants are not formal­
ly enrolled in a university. However, they 
are placed in jobs on the basis of profes­
sional interests, as learning opportunities 
as well as opportunities to contribute.
To be eligible, a candidate must be an 
American citizen with at least a Bachelor’s 
degree and must be no more than 27 years 
of age on September 1, 1976. High aca­
demic achievement and leadership ability 
are essential. Foreign language is not a 
criterion. The basic stipend for each 
Luce Scholar is $9,000.
Candidates are ineligible if they have 
already had a significant exposure to Asia, 
or if they have a professed career interest
in either Asian affairs or international 
relations.
The CMU Committee who will nomi­
nate three scholars from CMU to compete 
in the prestigious Luce Scholars Program 
invite qualified applicants to make known 
their interest in being considered. If you 
are interested in being nominated, you 
must see one of the committee immediate­
ly. All papers must be processed by Oct­
ober *16 for the applicant to be considered. 
The committee members are:
Dean Betty Jane LLoyd 260 BH
Prof. Donald L. Feucht 110 SH
Prof. Thomas M. Kerr 207 GSIA
Dean Viriginia B. Milligan 207 WH
Prof. Judith R. Lave 207 MM
Prof. Charles H. Van Dyke 2114 DH
Prof. Orville M. Winsand 312 CFA
V.P. John G. Johnson .Chairman.
CMU Audited 
by IRS
by Thomas Kendig
CMU is one of a number of universities 
randomly selected by the Internal Revenue 
Service as part of an audit of non-profit 
organizations. The audit will begin some­
time in October and continue until such 
time as the IRS considers its study of the 
of the university accounts is satisfactorly 
completed.
According to Thomas Horner, Director 
of Accounting Services lor CMU, the IKS 
originally wanted to start in September, 
but due to the presence of three other 
auditing firms examining the University’s 
books, all available space was filled. The 
IRS then arranged for their auditors to 
come to CMU in October when space 
would be available for them. The Universi­
ty does have its own professional auditing 
firm, Ernst and Ernst;
Several changes in University account­
ing practices have already been observed 
which may have been caused by the 
upcoming audit. Over the summer, 
Lois Cox, Assistant Dean of Student 
Affair?, was made aware that organizations 
could not pay students as professionals 
for so called professional services. It 
seemed “students just could not be paid 
under the professional services code,” 
according to Cox.
A meeting was called on September 
twenty-fourth to clarify the situation. 
At this meeting Horner talked to Gary 
Singer and Eric Giler of University 
Graphics and Willie Thomson of Student 
Government Corp. It was explained that 
University Graphics could not use the 
professional service code to pay for work 
they received from students, such as the 
design of posters and other previously 
contracted work. They would now have 
to enter these people on the payroll and 
taxes would be withheld from their wages 
to comply with IRS regulations. The 
changes came about because the IRS tax 
laws state that taxes must be withheld 
from an employee's wages if the employer 
“has the right to control and direct the 
individual who performs the services.”
The University is constantly checking 
the status of both the IRS regulations 
and the University’s compliance with them. 
But after the meeting, Singer was left 
with the impression “as far as I know the 
enforcement of the professional services 
account ruling is a result of the impending 
IRS audit.”
Photo by John Rom 
Richard van Horn, VP for Busina« Attain
up which will cause even more inconven- 
iance.
Complaints from the Architecture dept, 
should be ending if they have not already. 
Because of remodeling and various other 
kinds of work done to the area, some work 
and drawing rooms were not finished at the 
continued on page five

---------------------------------------------------

editor’s note
VaVrioua asmetihuedf Vttittued nli eiir
President Cyert, in his recent address to the faculty 
commented that one of the “organizational changes” he is 
concerned with is the establishment of a more effective coun­
seling system at CMU. "/ am, however, unhappy about the 
(counseling) job that is being done. / would like to see a 
sytem that enabled every student in the school to be assigned 
to a particular faculty member who takes the initiative to get 
those students in his office... .All of them do not need it 
for four years, but they do need it in their freshman year and 
can frequently ben fit from it in later years. As faculty 
members, you must remember that you are role models for 
these students and that your behavior with them can be 
highly influential. ”
/ think that there is general agreement with Dr. Cyert 
concerning the current inadequate counseling system. Cur­
rently a large number of the Freshmen, the people who need 
the counseling the most, are assigned to either Dean Kail 
(CIT-MIS) or Dean Lloyd (H&SS) who, despite their efforts, 
are unable ta offer the individual attention indicated by the 
President. Yet the solution to this problem is much more 
complex than simply assigning students to individual faculty 
members.
Students, for the most part> view the current advising 
procedure as an additional step in the bureaucratic process 
called registration; using their advisor as a rubber stamp for 
required approval on class schedules and add ¡drop forms. 
Whether a function of the current inadequacies of the sys­
tem, or the fact that students don't feel thereJs a need for 
counseling, there seems to be a general level of apathy in re­
gard to an active advsing system.
Faculty are similarly disposed to their advising. Usually 
the competancy of a faculty advisor Zs> reflected in how well 
he read the information packet he received two weeks 
before the commencement of registration. There is currently 
a lack of interest and expertise in counseling, on the part of 
most faculty advisors. This results from the fact that their 
primary interest at this institution is in teaching and research, 
not in advising. Thus it appears that students don’t want an 
active advising system and/or the faculty doesn’t want to 
actively advise.
If after an extensive investigation it is discovered that 
the majority of students don’t feel there is a need for wide­
spread advising, certain alternatives do exist. For example, 
instead of issuing a packet to faculty members each semes­
ter containing all the current information on course require­
ments, offerings, and options, such information could be 
made available directly to the student. With such information 
available in a current and easily accessible form, most coun­
seling problems should be alleviated.
More detailed information both on academic require­
ments as well as the bigger issue of career objectives and plan­
ning could be handled by a central advising service; possibly 
under the auspices of the Counseling Center. Such a service 
would be equipped with the relevant information as well as 
the skills for assisting students with these more personal 
problems.
Dr. Cyert has recognized a real problem on this cam­
pus when he identified our current inadequate counseling 
program. What remains to be seen is exactly what kind^of 
program is actually desired and needed by the students of 
Carnegie -Mellon.
Gary Singer, Editor 
gioiovig shr aVgeidui nial
Homecoming is approaching and all await the arrival of 
the various alumni. Corks pop, the pipers pipe and the checks 
and wills get signed. “Remember old Carnegie Tech ” says the 
orator as he souses the alums with the various spirits. "Re­
member old Carnegie Tech and the best years of your life.' 
Remember the overcrowded dorms and the overcrowded 
classrooms. Remember the day they turned off the heat, the 
day they started charging for check cashing and the day they 
didn’t let you graduate until a year later since “architecture 
really should be done in five years. ” "Remember Carnegie 
Tech”. May we both rest in peace.
Name Witheld
letters
'Thank God He Speaks English"
ase
Editor:
This letter is a reply to an 
unsigned letter in last week’s 
issue of the TARTAN. We do 
not agree with the sentiments 
expressed by that writer for 
the reasons stated below.
Firstly, we do not believe 
that the facts, if examined, 
would support “Name With­
held”^ conclusions regarding 
foreign graduate student teach­
ers. We request that the writer 
substantiate his claim with in­
stances— we suggest the teacher 
evaluations conducted by Alpha- 
Phi-Omega as a possible source 
for such data.
Secondly, we do not believe 
that foreign instructors speak 
poor English. Students from for­
eign countries always have to 
pass a test of English compre­
hension in some form. While 
this certainly does not ensure 
that these instructors “think 
in English”, it does, however, 
ensure sufficient competence to 
function in an American univer­
sity.
Thirdly, the writer has con­
fused “dialect” with “accent”-
Volume 76
the problem of an undergraduate 
having to learn a foreign dialect, 
or, as “Name Withheld” would 
have it, “beginning a course in 
a foreign dialect”, is really one 
of understanding a foreign ac­
cent. We agree that this is a 
problem (if it'arises), but in our 
experience as instructors, solv­
able by talking to the instructor 
concerned. Also, in our experi­
ence, repeated enquiries by us 
have failed to elicit complaints 
about language.
Finally, we totally reject the 
suggestion that the teacher pop­
ulation be balanced ethnically or 
racially with the composition of 
the student body. It is somewhat 
short-sighted to confuse demo­
graphy with educational objec­
tives.
“Name Withheld” possibly in­
tends a more subtle implica­
tion— that the average American 
student can understand or speak 
“good” English. Some may dis­
agree.
R. Kamesh, Computer Science 
R. Bhaskar, GS1A
P.S. We are both Indian citizens 
and would certainly appreciate 
learning about “Indian”— a lan­
guage “Name Withheld”appears 
to know of.
tartan
October 7,1975
*gs
Editor:
This is to readily concur with 
the recent letter concerning for­
eign instructors. It’s about time 
some one not only brought up 
the problem but did some­
thing about it. The course I’m 
taking now, which leads me to 
my anticipated major and career, 
is taught by a foreign instructor 
who I can’t understand for the 
life of me. The course is abso­
lutely unbearable.
It is by all means true that 
hese instructors know their sub­
jects but the fact is that they 
can’t teach them. It is really 
the university’s fault for having 
these people teach. I am paying 
an enormous amount of money 
for an education, not for some 
foreign instructor to fulfill his 
graduate school requirement.
The TARTAN welcomes com­
ments from any member of the 
CMU community. Letters to the 
Editor are due by noon Wednes­
day during the week prior to 
publication.
Number 5
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor .Charles Mitch 
Entertainment EditorrMarfc Chimsky 
Trapeze EditorGreg McKenna 
Sports Editor:Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor:Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Jonathan Eiten, Tim Fabian, Rick Frantz, James Johnston. Courtney Larson, Gregg Lebo- 
vitz, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose. Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasic, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie —Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Govfrnment of Carne­
gie —Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; [4121 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTAN—October 7—Page 3
The Question of Scale
After President Cyert’s press 
conference on September 18,
1975, Gary Singer, Editor of the 
Tartan, asked me to write an 
article summarizing the report 
of the 1974-75 Tuition Commit­
tee. Since the lead article in the 
September 23rd, 1975 issue of 
the Tartan by John Warner does 
this fairly adequately, another 
such article would contribute 
little. However, it is regretable 
that this article has apparently 
created the widespread impres­
sion that President Cyert and the 
administration on the one hand 
and the Tuition Committee and 
I on the other hand are hostile 
antagonists. Both President Cy­
ert and I feel strongly that open 
discussion of the scale of the 
University would be beneficial 
for CMU. However, it would be 
counterproductive if this dis­
cussion takes the form of at­
tacks on the President. In this 
article I present what I consider 
to be strong evidence that Pres­
ident Cyert is interested in 
reaching a rational decision on 
the question of scale and that he 
has set out to do this in an open 
way. In a future article I would 
like to discuss what I see to be 
the dimensions of the problem 
of choosing a level of scale for 
CMU.
First, it is important to recog­
nize that President Cyert himself 
formed the Committee on Scale 
on his own initiative shortly 
after becoming President. He did 
this without any pressure from 
students or faculty. That CMU is 
attempting to approach this 
problem rationally puts it ahead 
of most universities, which I un­
derstand are not treating this 
matter in any formal way. In 
addition to the Committee on 
Scale, President Cyert is current­
ly organizing a research group to 
investigate some of the dimen­
sions of the scale question.
Open discussion of the scale of 
the University would be bene­
ficial ........
That President Cyert has 
treated this subject openly is 
evidenced by the presence of 
faculty, administration, and 
students on the Committee on 
Scale. Furthermore, he has asked 
me on three occasions during 
the past year to serve on that 
committee, at least once after 
the release of the Report of the 
1974-75 Tuition Committee. 
This is not consistent either 
with the hypothesis that Pres­
ident Cyert is proceeding with 
this investigation in a secretive 
manner or with the hypothesis 
that he is trying to bias the 
advice he receives in the direc­
tion of his prior opinions.
Also, let me emphasize that 
the Tuition Committee was not 
critical of past policies. When 
President Cyert assumed office, 
survival of the University was 
the dominant issue. He took 
painful but necessary steps to 
bring expenditures in line with 
revenues. Thus, the Committee’s 
concern over the treatment of
depreciation reflects its opinion 
that long-range plans should be 
based on conservative estimates, 
perhaps more conservative than 
current practice. To President 
Cyert’s credit, it was he who 
squarely faced up to the need to 
embark on a renovation program 
for existing facilities, a program 
repeatedly neglected by his pre­
decessor. Also, as the President 
has pointed out, the University 
can reasonably plan on some 
flow of gifts to help defray to 
costs of major renovation pro­
jects. Hence, whether the plann­
ed treatment of depreciation is 
sufficiently conservative remains 
an unsettled question.
.. .even if a rate of draw of 6/6% 
seems excessive... it is not as 
bad as deficits in excess of $3 mil­
lion ........
Secondly, the Committee was 
concerned about the planned 
rate at which income would 
be drawn from the endowment. 
To President Cyert’s credit, it 
was during his administration 
that for the first time a sound 
policy was formulated for 
smoothing the flow of income 
from the endowment. If there is 
a difference of opinion, it is only 
over the rate of draw from the 
endowment, not the approach. 
Furthermore, even if a rate of 
draw of 6 1/2% seems exces­
sive to the Tuition Committee, 
it is certainly true that this is 
not as bad as deficits in excess 
of 3 million dollars which we 
had experienced in the years 
before President Cyert assumed 
office. In summary, the Com­
mittee had no intentions of 
critizing President Cyert’s ad­
ministration for past practices. 
Rather, it was expressing its 
opinion that should these same 
practices be continued into the 
indefinite future, problems 
might develop.
Next, let me emphasize that 
the Committee on Tuition did 
not offer a recommendation on 
scale. Rather, it offered some 
strong opinions on scale based 
on preliminary analyses of some 
aspects of the problem. Based 
on these opinions, it stressed 
the urgency of coming to 
grips with the scale issue. The 
Committee was not disagreeing 
with the President’s position on 
scale; in fact, the Committee 
was unaware that the President 
had a position on scale. Rather, 
by strongly emphasizing the ur­
gency of the scale question,
we were attempting to support 
the President’s efforts to obtain 
recommendations from the 
Committee on Scale.
Finally, let me offer brief 
explanations for some of the 
apparent descrepencies between 
President Cyert’s announced 
positions and the Tuition Com­
mittee’s positions. First, the 
sharp increase in the size of the 
freshman class this year was 
largely not a matter of policy 
but rather a matter of unpre­
dictability. Secondly, the Com­
mittee’s opinions were with res­
pect to the long run, whereas 
President Cyert’s preference for 
an expanded student body is ad­
mittedly a sort-run policy. Dur­
ing his press conference on 
September 18, President Cyert 
specifically stated that unless 
the method of financing higher 
education is changed, he believes 
that in the long-run the Univer­
sity will have to contract. 
Thirdly, the Tuition Committee 
was operating on the assump­
tion of no major additions 
to the endowment. It has turned 
out that this assumption is evi­
dently conservative. Finally, 
many of Pdresident Cyert’s 
positions are simply opinions 
which are subject to change in 
the face of new evidence, just 
as the Report of the Tuition 
Committee contained many 
opinions based on incomplete 
evidence and analysis. Conse­
quently, it is incorrect to assume 
that President Cyert’s currer 
positions are those which in fac 
will become the long-run policy 
of the school. Furthermore, 
different people may legitimate­
ly place different weight on dif­
ferent dimensions of the prob­
lem. For example, at the meet­
ing of the President, Provosts, 
Deans, and the Tuition Commit­
tee last May, President Cyert 
expressed serious concerns about 
what happens to morale in a 
contracting organization. There 
is considerable evidence form 
the study of organizations that 
these concerns are valid. Con­
sequently, it is understandable 
that the President might be re­
luctant to move in a direction of 
reducing scale without strong 
evidence of the necessity of 
such an action.
The question of scale is 
critical for the University. Presi­
dent Cyert favors open, rational 
discussion of this matter. I 
believe that these discussions 
will be preductive only if they 
focus on the issues.
Timothy W. McGuire 
Professor of Economics 
and Statisitics
Yov&> fotz onpçuveieep pco^!
PlC*. up A ioF* INfO PE£*.
View from Warner Hall
Alice: “Would you please tell me which way / ought to go from 
here.
Chesire Cat: That depends a good deal on where you want to get to. 
Alice: / don't much care where...
Chesire Cat: Then it doesn’t matter which way you go. ”*
?Lewis Carroll, “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland," 1865
Universities, if they are to excel, must devote substantial 
attention to planning for the future. Unfortunately, public 
discussions of the future tend to have an Alice in Wonderland 
character. Everyone argues about which way we are or should 
be going, and no one looks very deeply to see where “we 
want to get to.” This distinction is deeper than playing with 
words. The “which way to go” prophets tend to assume that 
current problems (or strengths) will continue in the future-
i.e., if gifts to the University went down this-year. On the 
other side, the “want to get to” prophets try to select desir­
able (but reasonable) goals and then look for wavs to achieve 
the goals--i.e., we want gifts to increase by 10% each year; 
now what can we do to achieve increased giving.
Where does CMU “want to get to?” Let us start by going 
beyond the Cheshire Cat and asking where we are now. In 
view of our new freshman class, are we now a large, over­
crowded university? The answer by most reasonable compari­
sons is no. The current student bodyoof approximately 
full- time equivalent students is smaller than the 4, 444 stud­
ents in residence in Fall 1969. During the entire 1966-71 
period, CMU accommodated the equivalent of the current 
student population with the same or less housing space 
(the four newest fraternities were built during this time) 
and with less academic space (i.e., without Science Hall and 
without the recent renovations to provide more and better 
Fine Arts space, etc.). From 1971 to 1975, CMU along with 
other similar schools, experienced a drop in enrollment to 
about 4,000 students, largely caused by a temporary drop in 
the popularity of Engineering triggered by the collapse of 
exhuberant spending on aero-space programs. Thus 1975-76 
may bring us back to where we started, but certainly not to 
a new frontier.
So where do we want to get to next? By 1985, will CMU 
try to find financial happiness by becoming a university with
20,000 students most of whom have college board scores 
below 400? Forget it! Our standards for students and our 
way of intellectual life, all suggest that somewhere around 
5,000-6,000 high quality students probably represent a max­
imum desirable size. Whether the best size for CMU is 3,000 
or 6,000 is largely a question that depends on personal val­
ues-- i.e., do you prefer 5,000 students; or more research 
and fewer students; or fewer students, fewer faculty, and 
fewer colleges; etc.
If we decide on a goal of 5,000 students, are we commit­
ted also to overcrowding, poorer education, etc.? No, at the 
same time, we can decide that the University should be modi­
fied to accommodate them. Some classrooms at present are 
overcrowded, but we can (and indeed are) buying more 
chairs, tables, and desks. We also can reshape space to provide 
more large classrooms-- a scarce commodity at present. 
Obsolete labs can be converted to new uses. Teaching quality 
can be maintained.
The University, after a careful examination of student 
demographic trends and our financial situation, has decid­
ed that we should not become the owners of additional 
dormitory space (or of additional academic space). However, 
we still can have a goal of providing good housing for all 
students who desire it. At present, we are exploring the 
leasing of space in the general area of CMU and have some 
good prospects. We also are talking with private developers 
about their building apartments on CMU property or nearby 
for first choice of rental to CMU students. Finally, we even 
can decide that dorms should remain somewhat overcrowded, 
perhaps in the fall but not in the spring. I hope that the Stud­
ent Dormitory Council will address the question of what level 
of overcrowding is acceptable as an alternative to turning 
away students who wish to live on campus.
The above are only a few of many possible isssues that 
deserve attention in planning the future. If the University is 
to excel, thoughtful decisions must be made on each of these 
issues. Hopefully, students, faculty, and staff will take a 
serious and active part in deciding where “we want to get 
to.”
Richard L. Van Horn 
Vice President for Business Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN—October 7
announcements
The Pleasures of Merely Circulating Read­
ing Series inaugurates its second year of 
student and faculty writers reading from 
their own work. It happens every Tues., 
from 4:30 - 5:30 in 235 B Baker Hall. If 
you have any poetry or fiction (or mildly 
amusing laundry lists) bring them - time is 
reserved at the end of each reading for 
impromptu performances. The featured 
wirters October 7 (that's today, folks!) 
are Mark Evan Chimsky and William 
Sonzsky. Sponsored by the Creative 
Writing Program.
Flaws in Jaws: A discussion of the real
danger in sharks by Mr. Richard Segedi, 
curator of the Aqua Zoo, Highland Park 
Zoo. Documentary Film on current re­
search and techniques to counteract a 
shark attack will be shown. 12:30 Thurs­
day, Oct. 9th in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. Bring your lunch and a friend. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
in cooperation with the Department of 
Student Activities.
Anyone interested in being Spring Carnival
Chairperson leave name and phone number 
at Skibo Information desk.
Having trouble with your courses? FAST—
Free Academic Student Tutoring is now 
available in most CIT, MIS, and Architec­
ture lower-level courses, as well as some 
H&SS courses. Stop by Peer Help, 
BH 150-A or call 621-9900 for further 
information.
The United Farm Workers are sponsoring
a benefit coffeehouse Friday, October 17 
at 8:00 pm. The event will take place at 
University and City Ministries 4401 Fifth 
Ave. (Oakland). Mellow music and refresh­
ments. $ 1.00 donation.
The CMU Pistol Club will meet each Mon.,
4:30 p.m., on Jenkins Range MMCC 
starting 29 September 1975. The club is 
open to all students, staff and factulty of 
CMU. For information call Ext. 409.
Alum's—Did you participate in ROTC
while attending CMU. Drop by and remi­
nisce while on campus this week. Gym 
203 or MMCC B-5. Ext. 281/409.
There will be a meeting of the Student
Senate, October 8 at 5:30 pm, Wherrett 
Room, Skibo.
Pre-Law students who are juniors or seniors
and who are .. committed to the use of 
his or her (later legal) skills in the service of 
the public” see Professor Thomas Kerr, 
206, GSIA, or Thomas M. Rutter, Esq., 
928 Frick Bldg,. Downtown, about the 
New York University School of Law, 
Root-Tilden Scholarship Program.
Ananda Marga will sponsor an Open Spiri­
tual Conference every Saturday morning 
at 11 am at 17 Welsford St., Pittsburgh to 
teach meditation, spiritual practices, and 
much more. We meditate for mental ex­
pansion and inner peace while working to 
establish a society that exists for the wel­
fare of all humanity. Free to the public.
Squirrel Hill National Organization for
Women (N.O.W.) will meet on the 2nd 
Tuesday in October— October 14, 1975 
at 7:30 pm at the Jewish Community Cen­
ter (IKES), located at Forbes and Murray 
Avenues in Squirrel Hill. There will be a 
discussion of the future of Squirrel Hill 
N.O.W. and informal consciousness raising. 
All members and interested persons are 
requested to attend.
Anyone that missed the CMU Volleyball
Club meeting and is still interested in play­
ing, send your name, address and phone 
number to: CMU Volleyball Club 
c/o Bruce Whiting 
Physics Dept.
The German Table meets each Tuesday
at 11:30 in the Kiltie Cafe (lower Skibo). 
Everyone interested in speaking German 
is welcome. Fluency is not required.
A civil rights rally is being planned for
Saturday, October 4, 1975 in Point State 
Park from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm to call 
attention to the issue of equal employment 
opportunity and affirmative action being 
raised by the Pittsburgh N.A.A.C.P. in their 
current selective buying campaign against 
the Joseph Horne Company.
Advertising—Public Relations—What is it—
How do you get in—Where can you go— 
these and other questions will be answered 
in a meeting sponsored by the Office of 
Career Services & Placement to be held on 
October 14, 1975, at 7:30 pm in Breed 
Hall. Speakers will be exectives from Ful­
ler, Smith & Ross, a highly successful ad­
vertising a&ency with offices in Pittsburgh, 
New York & Chicago. Areas represented 
will be Client Services, Creative Art & 
-‘"Copy writing.
All CMU undergraduate and graduate 
students wishing to learn more about 
these professions are invited to attend.
LSAT Preparation: 15 hour skills work­
shop designed and taught by an educa­
tional psychologist, legal analysis by * a 
member of the Bar. Next course December 
26-31. LSAT Preparation Associates, 
P.O. Box 4134, Pittsburgh, PA 15202. 
Phone 412-835-3313.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon­
day through Friday. 682-3190.
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pay 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help, Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874.
Mum is the word . . . order your Home­
coming Mums for only $2.00 in Baker Hall 
this week, from 11:00 am until 5:00pm. 
You can pick them up in Skibo, Saturday 
morning before the game.
classifieds
Typing - Printing Professors, Instructors,
Students. Professional looking term pa­
pers, theses, reports, manuscripts, etc. Call 
481-3041.
Thistle '75 is in. You may pick up your
copy at the Skibo Information desk. A 
limited number of copies are available if 
you have not yet purchased one. The price 
is $10.50.
Girl/Roommate wanted by marriage mind­
ed airline man. Must have long hair. Height 
and weight proportunate. Airline benefits 
plus more. Details exchanged for photo/ 
phone no. Box 130 Clinton 15026.
FORBES
STREET
ALUMNI
SHOW
NOW-OCTOBER 11th
GALLERY
Is stealing a nee call worth a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. It’s stealing—pure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
¦ A fine of up to $15,000
¦ Up to seven years in jail
¦ Restitution for the total cost of the fraud
¦ Court costs
¦ A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark.(Q) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—October 7—Page 5
Senate Changes Carnival
£ Photo by Rick Frantz
Dougherty Graduate House, now providinq housing for married students, may house undergraduates 
next year, in order to accomoaaie me targe fresnmen class expected in 1976.
Nylon Tarp Considered
by Cheryl Lawson
Drowning in a sea of handouts, the third 
Student Senate meeting of the year began 
on Wednesday, October 1st. Although 
many items of interest echo over the 
floors of Student Senate meetings, this 
meeting will reverberate between Skibo 
and Warner Hall for weeks to come.
The Spring Carnival is almost officially 
moved back two weeks this year. Previous­
ly scheduled for April twenty-third and 
twenty-fourth, within several meetings, the 
dates will officially be the ninth and 
tenth of that month. The dates were 
changed because Finals are the week fol­
lowing the twenty-third and twenty-four- 
th, and Easter and Passover are the sixteen­
th and seventeenth. There are several coifl- 
plications, with the Phipps Conservatory
Flower Show scheduled tor the alternate 
weekend. But Sue Christian and Pittsburgh 
Parks and Recreation are tying up loose 
ends on it all.
There was a semi-violent discus­
sion over the Rules Committee’s recogni­
tion of Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity as an 
organization on campus. Alpha Phi Alpha 
is a black national fraternity with a city 
chapter in Pittsburgh that is based on 
the University of Pittsburgh campus which 
services students on most other area cam­
puses. Senators who went along with their 
wanting Senate recognition were almost 
blasted out of their seats by Senators try­
ing to understand why a fraternity would 
request to be an organization, realizing full 
well the limitations that that status puts on 
fraternal organizations. The discussion was 
finally tabled until next week.
continued from page 1 
beginning of the school year, this resulted 
in a serious shortage of space for the stu­
dents forcing people to get necessary work 
done in limited areas. Word received from 
Van Horn is that the work is now all done 
and the improvements were worth the 
cost.
Feasibility studies are being made about 
buying a translucent nylon tarp to be used
as a cover at graduation ceremonies in case 
of bad weather. The problem with such a 
covering is that they tend to take off in the 
wind, and that water tends to collect in the 
center which increases the possibility of 
drenching the audience. The study which 
is being made by Dahlen Ritchy will be 
presented on Oct. 20, and if the price is 
right, CMU has seen the last of it’s soggy 
graduation ceremonies.
FREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY--SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 661-8811
EARN $10 FOR TAKING A PHYSICAL EXAM ...
if you are a healthy MALE, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds. Volunteers 
are needed for Bioavailability Testing Program on absorption rates 
of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted under strict 
medical supervision.
—Program involves small blood samples drawn at various 
times throughout the study.
—Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between ¦
9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in Room 335, Hotel Webster 
Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our physical exam, in­
cluding complete blood chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50- 
$500, depending upon time requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, INC.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue 682-2022 
-Or come directly to the Physical Exam - 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
(Do not eat breakfast)
Ugliest Man On Campus
You have only two 
days to choose, 
Friday Oct. 10,10 - 4 
and Sat. Oct. 11,10- 
2 in Skibo Lobby the 
ugliest man on cam­
pus for 1975.
Voting is done with 
cash, One cent
equals one vote.
Ballot stuffing is 
strictly encouraged. 
Make your judgment 
on the principle of 
ugly, uglier, ugliest.
(1st Place Trophy for Winner of U.M.O.C.)
The winners will be announced at half time 
during the Home Coming Game with Hiram. 
An money collected will be 
donated to Charity
Another A Phi O Service

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—October 7
Hewlett-Packard representative to demonstrate on campus, 
WED. OCT. 2, 1975
He'll show you how to get the most out of any HP calculator. Just come to 
BOOKSTORE, 10 A.M. — 2 P.M. on OCT. 22, 1975
The uncompromising ones.
The Hewlett-Packard HP-21 Scientific $125.00*
/^3L/5ß 7 0 - <? 5
OFF ON PRGM RUN
FIX SCI ENG 
SST BST GTO É'ü (0j
Ss X-
R* STO RCL S+
PREFIX- CLEAR ....-....— ......PRGM REG STK
ENTER ?CHS EEX CLXD£G RAO GOO
x<y
1;
Inn
logÉI
?Ri n
*zynCflS
! I
sinRUS!
costan
x*yINTSTn
y*n
xzzyM
?H.MSn
LAST Xn
PAUSEE3mBSHm
WL « T T . PHOKAHO SMS
The Hewlett-Packard 
HP-25 Scientific Programmable $195.00*
The calculations you face require no less.
Today, even so-called "non-technical” courses 
(psych, soc, bus ad, to name 3) require a vari­
ety of technical calculations—complicated cal­
culations that become a whole lot easier when 
you have a powerful pocket calculator.
Not surprisingly, there are quite a few such 
calculators around, but ours stand apart, and 
ahead. We started it all when we introduced the 
world's first scientific pocket calculator back in 
1972, and we’ve shown the way ever since.
The calculators you see here are our newest, 
the first of our second generation. Both offer you 
technology you probably won’t find in compet­
itive calculators for some time to come, if ever.
Our HP-21 performs all arithmetic, log and 
trig calculations, including rectangular/polar 
conversions and common antilog evaluations.
It’s display is fully formatted, so you can choose 
between fixed decimal and scientific notation.
Our HP-25 does all that—and much, much 
more. It’s programmable, which means it can 
solve automatically the countless repetitive 
problems every science and engineering student 
faces.
With an HP-25, you enter the keystrokes 
necessary to solve the problem only once. 
Thereafter, you just enter the variables and 
press the Run/Stop key for an almost instant 
answer accurate to 10 digits.
Before you invest in a lesser machine, by all 
means do two things: ask your instructors 
about the calculations their courses require; and 
see for yourself how effortlessly our calculators 
handle them.
See both the HP-21 and HP-25 on display 
today at your bookstore. And ask the Hewlett- 
Packard representative to show you just how 
valuable an HP calculator can be.
HEWLETT iff PACKARD
a
Sales and service from 172 offices in 65 countries. 
Dept. 658C, 19310 Pruneridge Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014
615/«
‘Suggested retail price, excluding applicable state and local taxes- 
Continental U.S., Alaska & Hawaii.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 7-Page 7
Brother, Can you spare a dime?
by Mark Chimsky
You know you’re in trouble when the 
coming attractions look better than the 
feature movie. In his new documentary, 
“Brother, Can You Spare A Dime,” 
Phillipe Mora doesn’t expose thirties nos­
talgia; he confuses it. One gets the sense of 
a giant waste-of a heavy amount of 
research being poorly displayed. Similar to 
Peter Davis’ “Hearts and Minds,” the pow­
erful anti-war documentary of 1974, 
Mora’s film throws out any leading narra­
tion and lets the pictures do the talking. 
“Hearts and Minds” relied primarily on Vi­
etnamese peasants and American civilians 
to communicate their universal message; 
but the historical figures were clearly de­
fined, their position and influence in the 
dynamics of a particular government care­
fully established. We were kept informed 
and it was that precise knowledge which 
shook us so. Knowing that the distin- 
guished-looking man on the screen was 
the General Westmoreland whose name was 
ritual with the six o’clock dinner news of 
the Sixties had a special impact all its 
own. When we heard this man speak casual­
ly of the “low value which the Vietnamese 
place on life” and then saw a Vietnamese 
child mourning passionately over his fa­
ther’s grave, our initial response to the man 
was enhanced, made resonant with devasta­
ting force.
If “Brother, Can You Spare A Dime” 
lacks force it is because we lack informa­
tion. Mora has assembled a splendid num­
ber of clips, but one is often at a loss as to 
whether they are candid newsreels or Hol­
lywood set-ups—are these grey men slouch­
ing in breadlines the result of some astute 
director’s cue or was it one of many groups 
caught by chance by a keen photograhper’s 
eye? Here, the real is frequently insepara­
ble from fantasy, and I think Mcra intends
this. Hollywood’s art became American 
life, but Mora (who is French) shamefully 
neglects the predominant ethic of the film 
industry, which was to edge truth with sil­
ver linings and conjure soothing panaceas 
for a desperate public. When Joan Blondell 
sings “We’re In The Money,” it should 
come as shrewd Hollywoodesque mytholo­
gy, much in the way Westmoreland’s firm 
little remark about the Vietnamese spoke 
for the political mythology of America. 
Instead, the irony of the moment is lost. 
Mora barely identifies anything in the 
film—and we are never quite certain of the 
context (i.e., chronology) of any of the 
scenes selected. How does Orson Welles’ 
famous “War of the Worlds” invasion 
broadcast fit in with Japan’s attack on 
Pearl Harbor? Mora jumbles events when 
he should be juggling them. It was as if he
were afraid to follow an obvious slant; 
“Hearts and Minds” was healthy because it 
was the sort of propaganda which made 
no attempt to conceal itself, which rather 
exploited its own character—stating its 
thesis soundly, (if a bit theatrically), 
heightening the token attempts at objecti­
vity by use of contrast. Westmoreland, 
representing the official authoritarian view, 
was easily canceled out by that shot of the 
newly-orphaned Vietnamese boy, weeping. 
The effect may have been show-bizzy, but 
at least we knew what our direction was 
going to be. We forgave the transparent ma­
nipulation because it was so honestly 
transparent. In “Brother, Can You Spare 
A Dime,” Mora goes for an antithesis of 
the E. M. Forster crede, “only connect” 
—here, practically nothing connects— 
Mora is either sloppy or intent on scatter­
ing his message so that it comes about indi­
rectly. And even then there is doubt as to 
what he’s actually saying. Here, the film 
industry is a cocky Jimmy Cagney world, 
with only two substantial musical numbers 
to remind us that Hollywood overcame the 
Depression with Busby Berkely extrava­
ganzas. It is a thin sketch of an industry 
which was a Westernized Mt. Olympus— 
Hollywood was the grand old myth-maker, 
turning out routines with enough bra­
vado to counter the darkness of a terrible 
time. Mora fails when he goes hard-core 
with the everyday lives of Depressed 
Americans because most of his material is 
just too coy or stagey. The little boy who 
opens the film, breathing at first as if in 
sexual frenzy, then cramming the names 
of states—alphabetically into a few 
seconds is cute in a Diane Arbus sort of 
way, and taken nowhere. The kid zips 
through the states for the Believe-It-Or-Not 
thrill of it, rendering the words almost un­
intelligible and sadly negligible. With 
“Brother, Can You Spare A Dime,” Mora
a lovirï 
glassful
pulls the same trick, skimming his way 
across a desperate America—venturing, 
with a cheap, pseudo-profundity, into 
currents events: flashing images of John 
and Jaqueline Kennedy waving in an open- 
roofed car to the Dallas crowds, or Nixon 
tensing his face into a smile for a unidenti­
fied television speech. The film is a quick 
hustle that can’t resist the easy ploy—the 
diffusion here is dishonest because it does 
not admit to any specific position or take 
responsibility for any underlying purpose, 
and yet every once in a while, two clips are 
juxtaposed together as if designed to mean 
something. The pointed edges are dulled 
without a sharp-witted ^premise. The 
film also seems somewhat impersonal; 
Mora remains as unidentfied and inexcusa­
bly vague as many of the clips in his film. 
He’s apparently done his research, 
but hasn’t yet grasped the workings of 
the culture. His “Brother, Can You Spare 
A Dime” is a fanciful, rudderless docu­
mentary that makes no attempt to enlight­
en. There is one repeated shot of a mon­
strous ticker-tape machine being dashed in­
to bits of useless confetti. For two unusual­
ly long hours, that’s just about what we 
get. Edited by Jeremy Thomas. Directed 
by Phillipe Mora.
prnsBUfpH
THEATERTENNESSEEWILLIAMS'
ype glass
¿Menagerie
Thru Oct. 12 ONLY!
"Staging nearly Flawless" 
-Pittsburgh Press 
"Extremely touching
-Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
"Brilliant performance" 
-KDKA-TV 
"Superb ... Splendid” 
-WTAE-TV 
"A Skilled ensemble
-Greensburg Tribune Press 
"Triumphant Debut”
-McKeesport Daily News 
"Excellent cast”
-Market Square 
"Teitel ranks with the 
best” -Duquesne Duke
"Breathtaking”
-WQED-FM Radio 
"Finely conceived”
- WYEP Radio 
"Outstanding Performance” 
-NPGH Radio 
"Performances exceptional... 
magnificent”-WDUQ Radio
? ???
STUDENT SPECIAL 
ALL SEATS $3.50 
?
On Matinees Oct. 11 12
Tickets at Box Office
ALLLGHENY COMMUNITY THEATER
(Nut to Buhl Planetarium)
Matinee Curtain 2:30 
?323 9880

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-October 7/eraratim the ton???????
University Park 
Sept. 26, 1975
To Mark Chimsky;
Dear Mark stop Just received word that 
Ramsey Lewis will play CMU Homecoming 
Concert stop Lewis as you know is one of 
the top jazz keyboard men recording to­
day stop Ramsey Lewis has disposed of his 
traditional piano, bass, and drum stop 
Lewis has been searching for a modem 
sound stop His last album Sun Godessgave 
Lewis a chance to explore new jazz pat­
terns stop Adding electric keyboard instru­
ments to his band, gave Ramsey Lewis a 
whole new appeal stop
Coming hot after the success of Jiis last 
record, Ramsey Lewis has just released his 
follow-up, Don’t It Feel Good. This looks 
like another winner for Lewis. It’s a strong 
combination of catchy jazz work and the 
bump and grind disco-sound; Lewis plays 
some beautiful synthesizer along with his 
piano and organ. The band has also been 
expanded and now includes a lot more 
black vocals.
All of the eight cuts are well combined 
dance tunes, with the title cut and “Spider- 
man” sticking out. A very pleasant surprise 
is a superb rendition of an old Earth Wind 
and Fire song, “That’s the Way of the 
World”. The strings and guitar work accent 
the opening minutes of the cut and then 
Ramsey Lewis knocks everybody dead
with some light tripping across the electric 
piano. Then the background vocals step in 
and finish you off.
“Can’t Function” is another stand-out 
tune that will probably make the juke-box 
route. Don’t be surprised if this album 
goes to the top of the charts, because it 
has all the ingredients of a number one re­
cord.
Ramsey Lewis has been working within 
a jazz framework for over twenty-five 
years. He is a master of his trade: he knows 
what will sell, what will make you dance. 
When Ramsey Lewis plugs in electric gui­
tars, wah wah keyboards and amplified 
horns, he knows just the kind of sound he’s 
looking for.
There are piano players with a quicker 
hand but they don’t achieve the sort of 
whole musical perfection that Lewis 
reaches for.
Hope to see you at the concert on Oc­
tober 10, Mark. (It should be an excellent 
opportunity to dance all those freshmen 
off their feet.) In case you forget, it’s in 
the gym and you can get your ticket at the 
Skibo Information Desk. Hey Mark, just 
thinking about a great dance show like this, 
Don’t It Feel Good?
Also, thank Chick Monheim and Sue 
Christian for me, they did a lot of hard 
work to pull off this show. Stop!
Adrift Quiff
1976 Engineering Graduates
Talk with
XEROX
FRIDAY, OCT. 24
See your Placement Office to arrange an infor­
mative meeting with the Xerox representative on 
campus.
You will hear about the exciting thrust that is 
continuing to develop at this worldwide leader — 
a thrust toward creating the information-handling 
systems of the future. You will find out about 
opportunities in an era of stimulating professional 
challenge at Xerox. And you will find food for 
thought in the advantages of career mobility in a 
company that is providing innovative capabilities 
for originating, organizing, processing, storing, 
retrieving, reproducing, transmitting and cdm- 
municating information.
We have a wide range of openings for technically 
strong, imaginative EE, ME, IE and ChE grad­
uates at our large-scale facilities in and around 
both Rochester, New York and Dallas, Texas. 
Fields include R&D, product design and engi­
neering, manufacturing engineering .. . and ser­
vice and distribution operations planning and 
administration.
You will also find another, most emphatic fact: 
Xerox Corporation is ar> Equal Opportunity Em­
ployer in its hiring and advancement policies — 
and in its practices. Let's get together.
XEROXAn equal opportunity employer (male/female)
Winter has finally arrived disguised with­
in the thrust of October’s bitter frost. It’s 
time to put away those grass-frolicking 
clothes and frisbees, and take out some of 
that ice-stomping leather and suede. Before 
you know it, the Penguins will be out there 
with the Canadians, Jefferson Starship will 
be strumming away in the Civic Arena, and 
you’ll be sweating and frothing your way 
, through mid-term exams.
Let’s not worry about the latter because 
we know we’re all doomed. In all serious­
ness, however, I would like to inform you 
that the Penguins will start dooming their 
first season opponents on October 11. 
They will exchange pucks with Washington 
at 8:00 p.m. on Saturday in the Civic 
Arena. Seats cost between $4.75 and 
$9.50. There are also three other home 
games in the Civic Arena during October. 
On Saturday, October 18 at 8 p.m., they 
will play the Detroit Redwings; then on 
Tuesday, October 21, they will skate 
against Montreal, and finally the Penguins 
will wipe out our Philadelphia Flyers on 
Saturday, October 25, at 8 p.m.
If the gut pounding action of hockey is 
not for you and, you’d rather have liver 
quivered by Papa John Creachs’ violin 
rythms or have your eardrums licked by 
Grace Slick and her kaleidoscopic voice, 
then you should know that Jefferson 
Starship will be performing at the Civic 
Arena on Wednesday, October 15, at 
8 p.m. Seats are $4.75 and $6.75 and 
probably already sold out, but there should 
be plenty of reasonable scalpers to haggle 
with for this great event.
Three other groups will also invade the 
Arena for some Octoberfest jamming. On 
Sunday, October 19, the Arena will present 
The World Series of Jazz, staring Herbie 
Mann, George Benson, Grover Washington, 
Weather Report, and Natalie Cole. Show­
time 8 p.m. Seats $.50-$7.50. On Thurs­
day October 23, the Doobie Brothers will 
rock the crowd at 8 p.m. All seats $6.75. 
Finally, on the next night, Marvin Gaye wil 
play at 8:30 p.m. for all who wish to spend 
6, 8, or 10 dollars to hear some heavy 
integrated soul. Just in case you still don’t 
know—the Box Office Info, number at the 
Arena is 471-1312.
Walt Harper’s Attic is also striking back 
at those winter chills with some hot jazzy 
blues. One of the country’s newest exciting 
groups, Skyking, headed by Chris Brubeck, 
the son of famed jazz pianist Dave Brubeck 
will hit the Attic for five days beginning 
Tuesday, October 7. Brubeck , who plays 
bass, trombone, keyboards and sings, 
recently had been touring with Dave 
Brubeck in “Two Generations of Jazz” 
concerts prior to forming this six-man 
group. Brubeck says, “We are trying to 
reach as many people as possible with a 
blend of contemporary musical directions 
encompassing jazz, Latin, rock and junk.” 
Skyking is a combination of multi-talent- 
ed individuals who became acquainted 
through impromptu jams some 2 years 
ago in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Skyking will do two shows, Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday, and three shows 
on the weekend. If you have ever been to 
the Attic, you already know that they 
don’t mess around with second-class talent. 
Their number is 261-5083 and the address 
is simply Market Square, Pitt., Pa.
The movie in DH2210 this Friday will 
be Woody Allens’ hilariously funny - Every 
-thing You Always Wanted to Know About 
Sex. See it and learn a thing or two.
To be continued next week...
Mike Marinangeli
1ksGassRing Hime
Carnegie-Mellon University Cßasfi(-ßiwgs
PRINCESS DtHNtH RING
NAVETTE 
PLAIN SHANKS
NAVETTE 
NUMERAI. SHANKS
NAVET.TE 
GROOVED SHANKS
Class Ring Ordering
Information
Day: OCT. 9th Tues. 
Time: 10:00 - 5:00 
Place: BOOKSTORE 
Please bring advance 
deposit of $ 10.00

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Octobér 7—Page 9
by Joanna Reisler
Steve Tyler, lead singer of Aerosmith, 
said, “I think class is puttin’ something 
over really well.” In this sense, Aerosmith 
is the classiest American band to emerge 
since The Velvet Underground. They 
handle the paradoxes of aggression and 
fantasy ; isolation, detachment and flagrant 
exhibitionism with an urbanely raunchy 
punch. Strangely cerebral at one moment, 
Aerosmith will catch you on the rebound 
in such a bombardment of sound that 
you wanna “stand in the front just a 
shakin’ your ass.”
House lights finally go out at the 
Stanley Theater. “Turner’s Murder”, a 
bizarre musical arrangement from the 
“Performance” soundtrack blares over the 
PA system. Aerosmith launches into 
Walkin’ the Dog”, amid the overwhelming 
shouts of approval. Yes, Tyler’s “dressed 
in black”; no “silver buttons all down 
[his] back,” just lots of silver rings on the 
long spatulate fmgers, instead. Feathers 
dangle from his ears. His splendid, dark 
mane is tossed in the breeze produced by 
huge fans positioned along the edges of the 
stage. The silk sashes lashed to his mike 
stand shimmer in red light. The feline Tyler 
stalks, prowls, and springs across the floor. 
He hurls the mike around his head; stream­
ers slash the air with scarlet flashes. His 
clinging, floor-length jersey billows out be­
hind him; catch a glimpse of the laces up 
the sides of his pants that are a second 
skin. Joe Perry, of the meticulous lead 
guitar, pouts, leers and sneers off to the 
side. Tom Hamilton, his ever so
blonde head, pounds out the steady bass 
lines. Brad Whitford churns out rhythm. 
Joey Kramer smacks away at his drums in
Aerodynamics
precise attack.
The number, “Walkin’ the Dog” is a 
joke. Who’s walking? They’re soaring. 
Aerosmith transforms this R&B classic from 
an easy shuffle into a compelling thrust. In
gives you a chance in the world to keep 
your feet on the ground, even though 
that’s what he’s singing about.
“Train Kept a Rollin’,” another stan­
dard made popular by the Yardbirds, is
a voice that is at once polished and gutter- 
al, Tyler tears each syllable from deep in 
his throat, snapping off every word. “I’ll 
show ya how ta walk yer dog,” comes the 
threat. None of the whistles and coaxes, 
(“Cummon, now, cummon”), offered by 
the Rolling Stones in their version of the 
same are necessary. Jagger invites his 
listener to shuffle along with him; Tyler 
commands a transcendent participation. He 
uses the prosaic baseness of the lyric as a 
foil for Aerosmith’s tremendous glut of 
musical power. He picks up the line and 
sends it hurtling off the walls. He never
given a similar treatment. The Yardbirds’ 
train rocks steadily along the coaster rails 
through to the completion of the song. 
Aerosmith makes the train stick and lurch, 
“with a heave and a ho”; the energy is 
pent-up. A drum-beat serves as the release 
of that bottled power, a violent, pounding 
outburst. By the end of the song they have 
their train careening right off the track, 
soaring above the very top of a polished 
steel boundary.
“Everytime that I look in the mirror, 
these lines in my face getting clearer,” 
laments Tyler as he emerges gracefully out
of the grey smoke tnat wafts up from the 
stage floor. He stands, bathed in sultry 
light, alone behind the microphone. 
“Dream on', dream until your dreams come 
true”; his tone becomes increasingly des­
perate. The audience is jolted out of their 
hazy state, kicked into animation. The 
dream come true: energy of rock.
“Baby, I’m a dreamer; found my horse 
and carriage,” wails the bad RAT “school­
boy”, coyly slapping his ass for emphasis. 
Tyler’s dug out the vehicle that sends the 
fantasy and alienation crashing through the 
mirror into the vital role of active defi­
ance.: whole-hearted dedication to being as 
bratty as possible and enjoying every sec­
ond of it. The fantasy feeds the reality, 
supplies it with fuel that makes it out­
rageously alive. The loner does not merely 
bemoan his detached state. He revels in his 
bravado, induces his audience to all join in 
and become part of his act.
Which brings us to “Toys in the Attic,” 
title cut from Aerosmith’s third album. 
A huge flare explodes on stage with a re­
sounding crack. The whole audience leaps 
simultaneously. “Leaving the things that 
are real behind,” leers Tyler, the sinister 
master of our own little reality. A toy 
is any article that can be played with. 
Tyler’s toy is a fantastic punk image that 
he summons up at will. He pulls it out of 
hiding, and banters it around the stage. 
“Toys, toys,” echoes the band members. 
Play with your fantasies; that’s how you 
use them.
MR. FINGERS
MAGIC
• •ESP
Irv Weiner Presents ...
An Evening of Entertainment
THURSDAY, OCT. 9th — 8:00 P.M.
BALLROOM
Sponsored by AB Lectures

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN—October 7
Ronstadt: Prisoner in Disquise
by Stephanie Waite
Linda Ronstadt has spent many years 
paying her dues in the music business. She 
has worked hard on the TV appearance 
and concert circuit, playing second fiddle 
to such superstars as James Taylor. She re­
leased two fine singles. “Different Drum”, 
and the beautiful “Long, Long Time**, 
both which were virtually ignored. Finally, 
Linda’s efforts have been rewarded. Her 
solo tour last spring was greatly successful; 
her album Heart Like a Wheel was ac­
claimed critically as well as being a com­
mercial success, and two singles from that 
album, “You’re No Good” and “When Will 
I Be Loved?” were big chart hits. “You’re 
No Good” also won the Rock Music 
Awards prize for Best Single.
Her new afyum, Prisoner In Disguise 
will probably keep her success going. The 
album is much like it’s predecessor, Heart 
Like a Wheel, in both style and content. 
Her singing is still deeply emotional and 
sincere, wringing the sentiment out of 
every word. The sincerity of the interpre­
tations is what makes the songs so moving. 
One believes that these feelings are hers, 
although she is not the author of any of
these songs.
Ms. Ronstadt’s philosophy of 
singing seems to be expressed in the title 
song, written by John David Souther. 
You think the love you never had 
might save you
But true love takes a little time...
So you Ve keeping your distance, 
a little bit of room around you,.. 
Sometimes lonesome breezes blow 
But it's no show, you might as well go 
If you think you could win it withou 
losing and letting it show..,
You must be a prisoner in disguise.
Her belief seems to be that those who 
are afraid to feel pain, and to show their 
pain, are just prisoners. She scorns these 
people. She chooses not to be a prisoner, 
rather she shares her emotions with us, 
the listeners.
The set begins with “Love is a Rose”, 
a Neil Young philosophical statement, also 
her new single. Other numbers on the 
album include Lowell George’s “Roll um 
Easy”, a fun sing-along, hand clapping kind 
of tune, about love’s joys and sorrows. It 
should get good airplay, although not to 
the extent of “You’re No Good”. It is
followed by a clinker, James Taylor’s 
“Hey Mister, That’s Me Up On the Juke­
box”, a whiny, rather pointlesss tuije, 
in the typical Taylor vein.
Two surprise tracks turn out to be the 
highlight of the album. These are two 
‘Sixties soul singles, Smokey Robinson‘s 
“The Tracks of my Tears” and Martha and 
the Vandellas “Heat Wave”. Both are 
handled excellently, raised to a higher level 
than jusfTop Forty nostalgia music, espe­
cially “Heat Wave", which she belts out 
forcefully, aided by electirc guitar a la 
“When Will I Be Loved?”, making this a 
great rocker. The next song, “Many Rivers 
to Cross” by Jimmy Cliff is a soft song 
about wandering, desperation, and of 
course, love. “The Sweetest Gift”, a folk 
ballad by the late J.B. Coats, is saved by 
Emmy Lou Harris’ harmony vocal. Ms, 
Harris’ sweet, unique soprano makes this a 
pleasant song to listen to.
This album, like the last one, contains 
a song written by Anna McGarrigle. And it 
has Maria Muldaur singing harmony, too. 
Unfortunately, the two songs, “You Tell 
Me That I’m Falling Down” and Heart Like 
a Wheel” just don’t match up. It has a nice 
melody, but not much in the way of lyrics
or arrangement. “I Will Always Love You” 
is the perfect Ronstadt vechicle: simple 
melody, and simple, sentimental lyrics 
about lost love. The set ends with another 
J.D. Souther tune, “Silver Blue”.
Although the album is good, one won­
ders after listening to it why most of 
Ronstadt’s material is country and western
flavored. It’s not as if that’s all she can sing- 
sne s proven her versatility on this album 
with “Tracks of my Tears" and “Heat 
Wave". Also, in the past; her best songs 
have mostly been those which were not 
country (i.e. “Different Drum”, “Long, 
Long Time” and “You’re No Good"). 
Perhaps Linda doesn’t want to give up her 
“roots”, or perhaps she just likes CAW 
better than any other kind of music. 
Nevertheless it would be interesting to 
hear her experiment with other forms. 
There are plenty of songs in soft rock, 
blues or even hard rock that would fit her 
perfectly. The twanginess of some of her 
songs can be annoying to those who don’t 
particularly like that kind of music.
But suggestions for improvement aside, 
it’s a good album. It’s good for a broken 
heart, or if you just want to listen to one 
of rock’s best interpreters.
TpsiwafternoonWNCHEONFÖRUM5
OCTOBERO
o'
e o
Flaws in Jaws o ;
Richard Segedi 
Curator Aqua Zoo, Highland Park Zoo ^
OCTOBER
The Computer 
Meets The Arts
Steven Rubin, Computer Science Dept.12:30 
Wherrett Room 
Bring lunch and a friend
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-October 7TRAPEZE
The
Mirpur
Housing Project
In the spring of last year, Trapeze reported on Professor Hartkopf and Dr. Goodspeed’s 
work in Bangladesh in an article titled Emergency Relief Housing in Bangladesh. At that 
time little data had been collected on the success or failure of the project. Because of 
the work done in Bangladesh, Professor Hartkopf and Dr. Goodspeed were able to coll­
ect valuable data on indigenous housing and make plans for future projects in other 
underdeveloped areas.
by Linda Deak
During March and April of 1975, two CMU faculty 
members, Volker Hartkopf, assistant professor of Arch­
itecture and Dr. Charles H. Goodspeed, an associate 
professor in the Civil Engineering department, traveled 
to Dacca, Bangladesh, completing an eight week project 
involving emergency relief shelters in refugee camps.
The project originally emerged, in the Fall of 1973, 
as a joint project for students of Civil Engineering and 
Architecture, which was then joined by Dr. Steven 
Rosen of Chemical Engineering. Professor Hartkopf felt 
that this joint effort was necessary to the success of th£ 
project because “this was an example of a problem 
which no single discipline could hope to address. With 
key disciplines combined, a more reasonable approach 
was achieved.”
This approach encompassed the development of a 
successful prototype. Due to the regional variations in 
climate, topography and culture, no universally accept­
able, refugee housing prototype is possible. Conse­
quently, the Working Party of the project had to concen­
trate its initial efforts in three areas: first, the develop­
ment of a building process and methodology which 
could be applied to many situations; second, the intro­
duction of a prototype unit which could be built 
throughout large areas of the world with whatever 
materials were available locally, and third, the intro­
duction of processes that would improve building tech­
niques and construction practices. All were incorporated 
into a design program to produce an evolutionary shel­
ter; a unit which provides immediate shelter for refugees 
and, with modifications, can be turned into a permanent 
dwelling.
Much recognition in achievement has resulted from 
this project. During the spring of 1974, Richard Behr 
and Ray Evangilista, seniors in Civil Engineering, Steve 
Lee and John Whitney, seniors in Architecture, had ac­
companied Professors Goodspeed and Hartkopf on a 
field test in the jungles of Peru, Guatemala. In the Fall 
of 1975, students in the Advanced Building Studies 
Program’s pilot project course, jointly taught by Good­
speed and Hartkopf, participated in the international 
competition on Emergency Habitat in conjunction with 
the twelfth congress of the International Union of Arch­
itects, held in Madrid. The CMU team was awarded the 
Soviet Union prize.
Professors Goodspeed and Hartkopf were assisted in 
the 1975 project by Dr. V.J. Singh, a sociologist at the 
University of Pittsburgh, Mr. Fred Cuny, partner of In* 
tertect, a planning firm in Dallas specializing in relief
work, and Mr. Mahiuddin Mia, a native from Begaly 
and currently a Ph.D. candidate at the University of 
Pittsburgh. All were responsible, in some way or an­
other, for the construction and sponsorship of the re­
fugee camps.
The first stage of the project involved building the ac­
tual structure under field conditions. Dr. Goodspeed and 
Mr. Mia travelled to-Dacca in early March to explain to 
the people, using detailed pictures and models, the type
of shelter which was to be built. The actual cost of the structures was also reported at $150 for a thirty-five per­
son unit. The main objective reachedduringthe first stage 
was to note the cultural or structural changes that the 
workers (many of whom were unskilled and illiterate) 
made in the shelter. A preference to a certain type of
Emergency housing under construction 
in Dacca, Bangladesh.
entrance way, for example, would be of main concern to 
the architects, for they would have to alter the total de­
sign strength and compensate for the difference. Mr 
Cuny arrived towards the middle of Goodspeed’s stay, 
focusing his efforts on gaining sponsorship for continua­
tion of the project from various organizations such as 
the Bangladesh Red Cross and Save the Children Foun­
dation. The first group returned after three ind one half 
weeks to brief Hartkopf who was to complete the last 
stage of the project. The necessary changes resulting 
from cultural differences or construction difficulties 
were inserted into improved manuals. Once in Bangla­
desh, Professor Hartkopf initiated the builing of shelters, 
under actual field conditions, in camps of various sizes. 
The time factor involved in the construction depended
photos courtesy of Professor Hartkopf.
on the availability of materials, such as palm, thatch, 
reeds and bamboo, and also on the availability of man­
power. Although western materials weren’t used, the 
Western idea of an assembly line system was employed, 
raising as many as one hundred structures in one day.
Professor Hartkopf stayed for approximately three 
and one half weeks, completing the various programs of 
the eight week project. In June of 1975, Dr. Singh re­
turned to Bangladesh for one week to evaluate how the 
people reacted to living in the shelter and the changes 
they had instituted.
Professor Hartkopf remarked that “although the 
housing in emergency situations is usually viewed as a 
temporary one, it unfortunately often develops into a 
permanent one. Before the team from CMU arrived in 
Bangladesh, the emergency housing mainly consisted 
of a stick of bamboo and a strip of burlap. Five refugees 
shared the space for one, which meant sleeping in 
shifts.” He added, “Although the people welcomed our 
shelters, it still is not a nice situation. People tended to 
think that more could be done or less should be done. A 
very delicate balance must be achieved. For $10,000,
a house could be built to aid one family, or the money 
could be divided to a limit where it still would provide 
the basic amenities, but for a larger number of people. 
One cannot go beyond a certain line, for when the bam­
boo and burlap approach is used, it is below any mean­
ingful action. As with the present bamboo and burlap 
structures, rains and winds readily destroy them.”
The shelters built by the team in March of this year 
are expected to last through many seasons with only 
minor repairs. Both Dr. Goodspeed and Professor 
Hartkopf added that they would like to revisit the refu­
gee camps around Dacca, Bangladesh to review the re­
sults of their efforts. The research contract is being ex­
panded, allowing them to complete a more in-depth 
study of the emergency approach used in the camps. 
More time would also be spent in educating the admin­
istrators as to specifically what type of approach was 
used, for if faced with a similar problem, they then 
would be able to train their native personnel.
Approaches are currently being directed towards the 
continent of Africa. A prototype for a dryer tropical 
climate is currently being studied at CMU, where the 
Chemical Engineering research will concentrate on sta- 
blized earth. Stabilization of earth can be achieved by 
burning clay to form bricks, constructing adobe, and 
adding cement or polymers to the soil. Dr. Steven 
Rosen, in the Chemical Engineering Department, will aid 
in the African prototype.
PROBLEM PREGNANCY?
First trimester abortions performed in an out-patient medical 
facility. Services include pregnancy termination, counseling , 
referrals and free pregnancy testing. For additional in­
formation contact Women s Health Services, Inc. 562-1910.
eser
A non-profit organization.
-------------------— ¦ - • • •¦»«.«»..» » j>
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
0S/7?cbyPPaul
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER
90 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorolare Parking Loi)
362-4445
REPORTS • RESUMES • CATALOGS • POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS • BUSINESS CARDS • FLYJRS 
OFFICE FORMS • BOOKLETS • SCHEDULES

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 7-Page 13
Pittsburgh's one and only
FREE CLINIC
by Kim Hu, ity
It was nc ¦ aL1 wliat I had expected. The word “clinic”
conjures up CM of white sterility, stainless steel, and
hushed voic. !>ui when I walk down the steps and push
open the door, I am met with music and colors. There is 
a warm and relaxed feeling in the waiting room: people 
mill about talking and reading; a stereo is in one comer, 
free coffee in another. The comfortable furniture is ar­
ranged in a fluid way-there is no conventional row of
Haiti seats against the wall. Most of those waiting in the 
room are young women, but I notice a capricious two- 
year old wandering about, a young man offering his 
volunteer services, and, on their way through the build­
ing, two elderly women are peeking down the steps. I 
feel completely at ease. This is what makes the clinic 
so unique.
The Pittsburgh Free Clinic was formed five years ago 
by a small group of volunteers who realized the need for 
a community-oriented health care service, geared to­
wards young people, in this area. At that time, the clinic 
offered only an evening walk-in program, but today has 
expanded and operates a Medical Day Clinic, a Contra­
ceptive Clinic, and Evening Walk-in Clinic, and a Patient 
Advocate and Referral Program. All of these services are 
located in a friendly and informal atmosphere in the 
East End Christian Church, S. Highland and Alder 
Streets, Pittsburgh.
The clinic’s aim is to provide basic health care infor­
mation and services for those who may not have the 
resources for private medical attention. Because of limit­
ed resources, the clinic is most interested in serving 
those who have no other health care facilities and 
encourage* students in the area to use the facilities of 
their schools. But for venereal disease problems or any 
other confidential matter, the clinic welcomes anyone. 
When it first started, the PFC charged no fee and asked 
only for patient donations, but now operates on a sliding 
fee scale, based on income and number of dependents of 
the patient. However, no one will be refused service
because of lack of funds. Financial support for the clinic 
is provided by various private foundations, HEW, patient 
donations, and private contributions.
John Heer is the director of the PFC, with four 
administrators handling the more specific areas. The 
clinic is able to operate primarily because of the great 
number of volunteer workers. There are approximately 
150 volunteers, including doctors, nurses, lab techni­
cians, counselors, and greeters. Surprisingly enough, 
there are only twenty paid employees.
Each of the various clinics is geared toward a specific 
service. The Medical Day Clinic is basically a pediatrics 
service, with one day a week for adult care, and offers 
early childhood screening, health education, and general
ment, and health care referral are among the services 
offered. Personal counselors, trained by the clinic, are 
also available at this time.
If a patient has a certain problem that cannot be dealt 
with at the clinic or if a patient is unhappy with his 
present medical care, the clinic, with the help of the 
Patient Advocate and Referral Program, can provide 
referrals. This program is located at 207 Oakland Ave. 
and can give information on the rights of patients, 
community health insurance, and the health care system.
In keeping with its interest in the community, the 
clinic has sponsored a women’s health care program at 
area high schools. A similar program has been started at 
the Women’s Section of the Allegheny County Jail. 
This program, and others like it, grow out of a concern 
that low-income women have usually not been given 
enough information about their bodies and general 
health care. In general, it is these needy women who 
require the most protection and knowledge, for they 
sometimes face the threat of experimentation and 
involuntary sterilization.
With today’s emphasis on patients’ rights and wom­
en’s health care, there are many questions to be an­
swered and changes to be made. The Pittsburgh Free 
Clinic is finding a way.
For additional information, call 661-5424. Anyone 
interested in volunteering for the clinic should call 
Liz Davidow (661-6604).
medical testing.
The Contraceptive Care and Family Planning Clinic, 
also during the day, gives birth control information and 
counseling to men and women. Contraceptives are pre­
scribed only during the day hours because the clinic feels 
such service necessitates a close follow-up program. Be­
fore contraceptives are prescribed, the clinc provides a 
couseling session for the patient. With this service, as 
with all others that the clinic offers, the information 
is regarded as confidential and will not be released 
without the patient’s consent.
The Evening Walk-in Clinic is held from 6:30 to 
10:30. Patients are seen on a first come-first served basis 
and are advised to arrive at 6:30. Pregnancy and birth 
control counseling, veneral disease counseling and treat­
PATIENTS RIGHTS
tx wt ta at immm «m* «Hr>
TW ««ft » 00*mm *> OK mm W«•*<*»
THS TO *«C Vario tmrnmm « mmss
rm. ***r to MB rm momm me*»
T*e too* TO mmc* m# ctmtmmuJTi
rm in«»« m ewcikdcv cmk rt* mm 0 mjmcmmk, » w»www» « 
vm. nmn w am «moM t mm*** 
t*t nmm to uu*t * no*nr* ***** eccxm h. 
TwC **u<r t* Km« » * A MR * wt»w »**
m to K£A*oNMU
T««txno mt* TO m Mjm *> « t
« «era* cm mam*. *mx JL .
B’NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY 
CENTER
UNDERGRAD SOCIAL 
SATURDAY OCTOBER 11 9 P.M.
Where? Hillel Lounge, 3rd Floor 
315 S. BeliefIeld
? Refreshments ?
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE 
(ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
nxLiSSa-s*’“"“'
fkofletu*0 Ca*e>
i SAX

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-October 7TRAPEZE
Venus Vagus
by Stephen Saint Varian
“Hellopeep!” peeked Daniel’s eye-ris blinks, and his 
warm morning sheets tickled toe-ward. Slowly, the cop­
per leaf uncurled, yawning, then stem-slipped to the tile- 
growling Octobrrrr.
“Come,” prayed the wallawhisper window. “Come 
watch what the dawn has brought!”
. . . Santa Claus is comingsing to town . . .
Blue. Aquarian landscape. In the mist of french fries 
and footballs, teddy bear golden-browns ... In the 
middle of.. . Blue.
. . . Goldfish who blooblooped all day and had pop- 
eyes.. .
Because horizon sun, comet-climbing, hissed cobalt 
tongues. Blue star it was, spilling plum juice on 
Pittsburgh, paddling orbital plasma, wriggling Medusa. 
The same horisun as yesterday — but blue.
.. . sometimes so sad, even in salmon streams or 
Rhapsodies in . . .
“Funny, it seems to me that I have always smiled 
with orange suns, or awoke to lemon. Perhaps tangerine, 
or even strawberry. But never before have I licked plums 
so six O’clock! No, not that I recall. This is, I think, 
a most unusual fruit for Saturday Break Fast.”
. . . There are more things in .. . Heavens! Like 
dragons or Loch Ness naturals . ..
Daniel tugged from his laundry, soft-socked into;:- 
tennis shoes, then penny-shuffled downstairs. A whole 
lollipop rolled in gums, flavor-melting with toothpaste 
breath.
He Bopped the door: Bop. Bopen. open,
penennn ... N.
Outside, too, the sun was blue. And air, and all blue 
was on bicycle street. Blue dew.
This was not the crackslapped aftermath of multi­
tudinous tubs of plutonium, nor was it the splittering 
bomblastic electrelocution of dynamous mites. Why? 
Why is the sun today blue?
. . . Oh, Easter lilies in church looked so cool like 
Mommy’s hands . ..
Skipper to town, down and elsewhere, did Daniel.
Bus Stop: Black purse in episcopal gloves, poised on 
knotty knees, knockerocking.
“Pardon me, madam.”
Her fruit ‘n’ feather hat rustled.
“Pardon me,” Daniel apoligized.
Lady tilted thick spectacles, still stiff in her pew.
“Could you please tell me why the sun is blue?”
Madame Rothschflde hmmphed underbreath. Starch 
hand adjusted head ornaments; glance maneuvered to an 
elsewhere umbrella.
. .. Daddy’d shove swing-an-me so high, I’d 
Wheeeeeing! and almost fly . . .
Skibble. Carpass Carpass CarpassELLOW . . Red-eye 
wait. Tweeoooeeoooeet! And a thick navy saber armed 
the intersection, twisting collar badge like a jeweler and 
his gem.
“Hey, boy! Gidowdadarode!”
“Officer, you might know (maybe a law was passed). 
Why is the sun blue today, or any day?”
Annoyed, the uniform shouted above brakeeeks:
“Kid! I donno! But it sure plays bitch with traffic! 
People see the goddam middle cautions, sure. But now 
those bastard lights, they look green as hell!” Scurreep!
“Well,” pondered Daniel, “if heaven is rose-colored, 
it is quite possible, I supposes, for hell to be but ...”
Rainbow. Roy G. Biv. Blue and red make purple. 
Red and yellow make orange. Yellow and blue make 
green.
.. . Imagine, Danny: every color, a flavor of the 
mind, so many scoops of ice creammmmm ...
Sticky from the street corner gumble, feet ashphalt 
tooda Hamilton Adolphis DuPont Library, home of the 
Sapient Sapsuckers.
The blond youth (referred to in social circles as 
well as other geometries, as Daniel) thumped through 
fire hydrant forests until
. .. Little Red Riding Hood cried, “Oh My, It’s the 
Big Bad Wolf!” ...
until he came upon a quaint little Chase-Manhattan 
dagger of chrome, stuck in stone.
. . . And Arthurr fisted the stem of the Sword,
then . ..
Filtrated fluggel-fluids pumped majesticalically high, 
flopping on O-so-spacious patios of peopleless. Foun- 
tation for appreciateive sculptures, smiling shells and 
wires.
Click-click-click came polished Oxfords across mica- 
slivers, flipping a briefcase. Daniel met the pin-stripe suit 
halfway down the steps.
“Excuse me, sir.”
Frown a loogathewatch ana stillathe click-click-click.
“Pardon, sir...!”
“Time’s -click- 10 -click-click- 32 ..
“But why’s the sun blue?!”
“Cause idjs -click-click- cause idis -click-click . ..”
Daniel only laughed, studying his own lion paws 
(neon blue), as the clicker’s grumbleby died.
. .. Eclipses with Grandpa: little trousers aloft to a 
tinyhole peek, steadied like a page by storybook 
turners, sure rubbing triple dark legs. Eye-to- 
frosty-eye.
Dragon, munch-munch-munching moon . ..
Daniel watched his shoelaces, still. Sad, so Daniel, 
so sad. Sad for a small clean hill, apple-green in clover, 
where oak leaves fall on dried bouquets.
Surprised pigeons hubble-bubbled from empty 
benches when jeans sidewalked past. The Library yet 
awaited: Almanacabus, Poorus Richard, and Company. 
Certainly, there ...
Thhhick lashes, lipsyrupy, cosmetic gaudy-gauze 
heelkicked quickly in a tight skirt.
brain BreadA Perfect Weal {b Bread
Variousm s0<JW5 òOi^iEi 4^1) ViGoRojS ethdfnl
by Lisa Ziedner
123
45
67
39
101112
13*
15
,6
17
81
-,
20
m21¦
2223
Ik25
_
m26
27
¦28
293C31
32333**
¦¦
36
37
¦
00
CO
U¦39kO
¦¦
*?2
1
<?3kk«
i*6
¦w
48¡*950
515253
_
a*¦55
56
I57
58
I
60
61I
63«
¦
Gentleman hurried: “Scuzmemiss ..
But already, her behind-strut had stuffed inside an 
alley.
. .. first-grade girl with belongablack smooth: she sat 
in front (pink lunchbox) when we were printing, lines 
on yellow tablets, wide ... so neat her hand, so
Jogalogajogalogajogaloga .. .
Dan ran rapidly to catch a gray sweatshirt athletically 
lapping the concrete brownies.
“Sir -huh huh- do you know -huh huh huh- why the 
sun -huffahuff- is blue?” Whew!
Jogalogajogaloga: “No, m’boy, but sure invigorates 
the muskulls, dontcha think! I mean, sunnyshade’s 
so drab, it’s emetic! But take blue— sartorial stimulatus 
magnified by multiple marine azure-moppers! Ooooda 
coool!”
Squirt! Jogalogajogalogalogalogalogaloga . ..
. .. my-mother-told-me-to-pick-the-very-best-one-and- 
you-are-not-IT! Squeeelawayfertag! .. .
When day begun, blue wuzda sun;
Den fun, fun, fun till day wuz done.
The diminutive Dolli in Pan-Am Park cogitated, ren­
dering an occasional easel splotch.
Daniel thought: “My, he must be a color-minded 
man! Surely, he will know why is the sun blue.”
Daniel thought aloud: “Why is the sun blue?”
Vasco, the artiste, tried very hard to display creative 
concentration and kept mute. His beret let shloops of 
shlag dangle.
PIATIGNUM ITALIC SET
m Contains a fountain ven five 
italic mbs, andinst uction 
manual all for only $$.6o... 
At art material&>pen sdops, 
coffeije fooi stores... jrsend 
ekeed to 'Tent a he Corp., / 52 
West 22 St., N.y, N.y 10011 
Add 50 cents for handiinij.
RESEARCH PAPERS
nlsmtVert se cuhi 
Send for your up-to-date, 160 page, mail order catalog of 5,500 
topics. Enclose SI.00 to cover postage and handling.
COLLEGIATE RESEARCH
1720 PONTIUS AVENUE, SUITE 201 LOS ANGELES.CALIFORNIA
M.B.A. RECRUITMENT - 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY
The School of Management of 
Syracuse University, Syracuse. 
NewYork, will be interviewing in­
terested applicants for the Graduate 
Program on 10/22/75 9 a.m. - 4:30 
p.m.
The programs include the M B.A., 
M.S. in Accounting, joint program 
with Law. MPA. in Media Ad- »
ministration and the Ph.D. Program.
For further information, inquire at 
the Placement or Career Counseling 
Office on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—October 7—Page 15
ACROSSDOWN
• 1.Quible1.Tells to scat
5.Dumfounds2.Give a new coat
9.Tourist city3.-----cat
13.Angel’s hairpiece4.Tinker
14.Farmgirl’s coiffure5.Great fun
16.Unephermal timespan6.Anger
17.Greased up7.Facility
18.Rope8.Endearing term
19.Travel the grapevine9. 'Tell
% 20.Solitary10.Turn-----
21.Fashionably.-----11.Ornery
22.— the ropes12.Boats
24.Up to date15.Alluring greenery
26.Fizzless21.Italian money
27.Talent23.Digs in
28.Appreciative25.Paucity
32.The last frontier28.Rock
35.Sadness symbol29.Numbskull
p 36.Hermit’s number30.Repent
37.-----and key31.Eyeball
38.High school events32.Wood strip
39.Fashion33.Skin breather
40.Craft34.Play divisions41.Playground piece35.Clique
42.Courage38.Loot43.Lab piece39.Fan ——
45.My-----41.Laurel
> 46-Rajah’s wife42.Full of hubris
9 47.Sport44.Crazes
51.Mail again45.Praised
54.Flabbergast47.-----Lawrence
55.Neither48.Gulf
56.Yemen seaport49.Wanderer
57.Oozed50.Degree holders
59.-----Mater51.-----Skeller
60.-----Down52.Dancer Gourmet
61.One of Chaucer’s pilgrims 53.Fortune teller
* 62.Peruse54.Swerve
63.Not his58.HEW office (abbr.]
64.Had due59.Exist
65.Leaving periods (abbr.)
“Mister... uh ... uh ..
“Vasco!” Vasco quick declared! “Vasco! Student 
of aesthetics! Arbiter of abstracts! Ponderer of 
palates! ..
| “Yes,” Daniel admitted. “Why is the sun blue this 
day?”
The beau of Beauty patted Dan buddy-palsy-friendsy 
on one shoulder, as if.. .So obvious, child! You are 
indeed ignorant, but ypu are meant to be. Let the 
Master explain!. .. Then he, gazing heaven-ward, touch­
ed brush to forehead, proclaiming:
“The sun is blue, because I have envisioned, in my 
psyche, The Image! It is I, and I am it, and we are one 
in Karma, blessed in blue. Now, offspring of Om, go 
unto others, relating The Word. For thou hast seen 
The Sign: Babylon in Blue.”
... In some brittle old book, a rustic stare once offer­
ed his Emerson: ‘If eyes were made for seeing, then 
Beauty is its own excuse for being.’ And I could almost 
cry ...
They dte, they die.
Goldenrods and browns played on the ground chasing 
sneakers, Daniel watched the patriotic furl, shishkebabed 
on the Library lawn. Hamilton Adolphis Dupont would 
be so proud. Cumulus fingers tickled the Stars-and-
PghlANGE
and other CONS
by Laurie Trask
When I told some people I was going to PgHLANGE,
I was met with incredulous stares, as if I’d said, “Tim­
buktu,” or confessed to be suffering from a social dis­
ease. “It’s an sf con, ” I amplified. While that cleared up 
the confusion for a few sf readers, I think it only served 
to confuse others further. In my more patient periods,
I tried to explain what an sf con was, and found it 
harder than I imagined. Science fiction conventions are 
more a state of mind, practically a philosophy or a way 
of life. Scattered all across North America, there is a con 
almost every weekend.
Not all of them are strictly science fiction cons. These 
days, with the influx of new-comers (like me), Trekkies 
(a phenomenon unto itself), purely fantasy folk (ama- 
ture magazines, either mimeo’ed or printed by offset), 
and movie buffs, there are many specialized cons. 
Annually, there are about forty sf cons. These range 
from small, semi-private cons called relaxacons; to 
slightly larger ones, offering a writer as a guest of honor 
and movies (like PgHLANGE, the Pittsburgh area con­
vention); to huge cons with extensive programming, in­
cluding plays, costume parties, art shows, many writers, 
and constant movies. One of the largest sf cons ever 
held was in September of 1974, in Washington, D.C. 
This Worldcon, as the annual major sf con is called, 
attracted over four thousand fans.
Quite a bit can be said about the Worldcon. Held al­
most every year since 1939, it started as the first real 
science fiction convention. For a while, it was the only 
one held each year. Gradually, sf clubs in cities began 
producing their own cons. The first regional con I 
attended was last March in Boston. Anne McCaffrey 
(Dragonquest, The Ship Who Sang) was the guest of 
honor. There was a huge art show, with primarily 
space scenes, and a sprinkling of book illustrations and 
alien art. About-ten other authors (Larry Niven, David 
Gerrold, Hal Clement, Lester del Rey, Gordon Dickson, 
and Ben Bova), artists (Rick Sternbach and Bonnie 
Dalzell), and editors (Donald Wollheim and Andy Por­
ter) were on hand to run panel discussions and answer
Stripes; Stars-and-Stnpes wind-giggled.
And poet approached.
“Who are you?”
“Hmm?” hmmed interupted bifocals.
“You are who?” Repondez s‘il vous plait?
• “Who am I? A most universal question, kindred to 
mankind’s superlative soul! Why ever since ..
“But who are you?” Daniel persisted.
“Ah! In brief, I am Dr. Harvard Tinketron, scholarly 
philosopher.”
Fulcrumed on the ektocementic staircase that rolled 
to polaroid colossal glass, a modkey-print necktie squash­
ed; wrist postured on chin wrinkles. The unthunk 
Thinker. .. not in clay?
“Well,” pursued determined Dan, “Can you tell me 
why is the sun blue?”
questions. Boskone 12 attracted just over 1,000 fans 
from all over the Northeast.
In the past few years, the popularity of “Star Trek” 
has increased enormously, despite the fact that the show 
was cancelled in 1969, after a three year run. Since 
then, Trekkies have made appearences at all the major 
cons. Characters in Vulcan ears, and girls wrapped in 
silvery cloth attempting to look like Vina have been 
entered in con costume contests; oils of the Enter­
prise have hung next to pastels of Saturn’s rings in the 
art shows; and Star Trek” books, slides, blueprint plans, 
scripts, and costumes have been sold out in the huckster 
rooms. The Trekkies in New York got together and or­
ganized a totally “Star Trek” con for January of ‘72. 
They figured on “several hundred” attending. To be 
safe, they “over-compensated” for space and being 
“optimistic”, organized enough space for about 1,800 
fans. Over 3,000 eventually jammed into the Statler- 
Hilton in New York that weekend. For The ‘76 New 
York “Star Trek” Convention, “Membership will be 
strictly limited to 6,000 persons'’ As I’ve never gone 
to a Trekkie-con, this February's will be my first, and 
I’m glad to seemy number is 1,784!
Many people are anxious about fandom now. “Too 
many people are coming into it,” they complain. At 
PgHLANGE, I heard one person estimate semi-active 
fandom at 30,000. I think these people are complaining 
about the wrong thing. I believe it is a good thing for 
people interested in science fiction, “Star Trek,” fan­
tasy, or anything else like that to become involved in 
fandom. As more people become interested, more cons 
will begin, more fanzines will go into publication, and 
more people will get together, to exchange ideas, 
dreams. Naturally, I am taken somewhat aback at the 
idea of 7,000 sf fans at one Worldcon. Last August, a 
huge Trekkie-con was held in Chicago, and the estimates 
of the massive crowd of fans ran between 15,000 and 
20,000\\ Most of the con was run in an auditorium, with 
the stars, producers, and writers of the show running 
lectures. That does bother me, as cons should give fans 
and writers, old and new, a chance to interact. Inter­
personal interaction becomes rather difficult when the 
person you want to talk with is a packed auditorium 
away.
In the future, TRAPEZE will present further reports 
on science fiction, fandom and conventions. Like, what 
are some trends in science fiction? And what do you 
really do at an sf con? Well, all this is just speculation 
now, but where would sf fandom be without specula­
tion?
**Ah! (as was the philosopher’s habit of amazement) 
Why is the sun blue? .. . Why is the sun blue? .. . Why, 
the sun is blue! Why, indeed?”
“Why is the sun blue?” Dan determinedly pursued.
“Let us first establish a design for our argument ..
“What argggg ...?**
“A thousand yellow balls have been drawn from the 
urn. All are yellow. Therefore, all balls in the urn are 
yellow.”
Daniel sighed with October, wishing.
“But this one is blue! Thus, our inductive argument 
has been disproved.”
“What argument?”
But the philosopher was already too deep in think to 
hear.
... Little Danny, craters on ripe moons are ever a 
dark mystery and stars are never touched, but both mv 
heart shall know ...
The sun, with full blue face, looked kindly on Daniel, 
dreamer of the Resurrection; his placid palms let loose, 
again, this softing ocean, cloud over Atlantis.a
gloioEX)
B’NAI B’RITH HIUEL-1EWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
PICNIC
at Chatham College
Sunday October 12 1P.M.
Where: Athletic Field 
in case of rain: in Lodge on Athletic Field 
lwj rwyp bD. wjRH, Pww.
v,BDy c,BpAHHpT vbOOpT vbjpT Hjz­
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875
THE TOMLIN/ON
COLLECTION
original old and modern master prints
Durer
Goya
Haden
Hokusai
Exhibition and Sale
Carnegie-Mellon University
Student Union
October 7, 1975 hours: 10-5
Kol I wit z Pi ranesi
Meryon Rembrandt
Mucha Renoir
Picasso Whistler
7II W 40th Baltimore Mary land - 2* 2l I * 3.0I -338

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-October 7
Jim Carroll
en joys working
with a ¦ ¦ ¦ ¦¦¦ vicious killer.
Just three years out of college, laser technol­
ogist Jim Carroll didn’t make senior research 
physicist at Eastman Kodak Company by acting 
timid. So when he had the courage to pit science 
against a dread disease, we backed him. Win or 
lose.
The medical community enlisted Kodak’s 
help in training lasers on the war on cancer. We 
responded with a pair of 500 million watt laser 
systems. And left the rest up to Jim.
In time, the lasers proved unsuccessful in 
treating cancer, but we’d do it again if we had to. 
Because while we’re in business to make a profit, 
we care what happens to society. It’s the same 
society our business depends on.
More than a business.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—October 7—Page 17
sports
CARROLL TOPPLES TECH 19-7
JOT THIS DOWN
by Gerry Fraley
John Carroll 19, Carnegie-Mellon 7; 
that is how the record book- will read 
concerning Saturday’s President’s 
Athletic Conference game between the 
John Carroll Blue Streaks and the Tartans 
in Cleveland. The score indicates something 
of an easy Carroll victory, too bad the 
people who will read the record book will 
never know that one big play that wouldn’t 
stand up was all that separated CMU from 
a big win.
The big play that wouldn’t go came early 
in the third quarter. Tech had received 
the kickoff to open the second half. 
The Tartans lost possesion when quarter­
back Jay Duquette was intercepted by 
Carroll linebacker A1 Baucco. Baucco 
lumbered 27 yards before being dragged 
down at the Carnegie 30.
Carroll picked up five yards to move 
to the Tech 25. Faced with a second 
and five, Streak’s quarterback Jim Stahl 
rolled to his right looking to pasS. He got 
nowhere as super aggressive sophomore 
linebacker Keith Baker hurdled a blocker 
kept his feet and dropped Stahl for an 
apparant 15 yard loss. The play was for 
naught however, as Baker was called 
for a face mask violation on what could 
only be a called a borderline violation. 
A play that would have stopped Carroll 
was erased, the Streaks were able to score 
seven plays later on a one yard dive by 
tailback David Jones and increase their lead 
to 19-7, and the entire game was turned 
around.
Tech had opened the scoring on a 70 yard 
-sprint by running back Dick West. West, 
who picked up 115 yards on 11 carries on 
afternoon, motored through a gaping hole
on the left side created by tackle John 
Bielich and guard Mark Uram to score 
untouched. Tom McMeekin added the 
conversion to give Tech a 7-0 lead with 
7:34 remaining in the first quarter.
The Streaks took advantage of an 
offensive turnover by the Tartans to gain 
the lead. The turnover came when Du­
quette had his arm jarred by defensive end 
Ken Mueller and fumbled, Carroll gaining 
possesion, on the Tartan 43. Eight plays 
later, Carroll’s starting running back , Tom 
Corral, was found by starting quarterback 
Jim Gorski in the end zone, tossing a 
six yard touchdown pass. The conversion 
failed, keeping the Tartan lead at 7-6.
Carroll took the lead for good when 
they moved 61 yards in five plays in 
the second quarter on their only offensive 
march of any length for the day. Gorski 
started the drive with a twenty five yard 
pass to Jones. Gorski was forced to leave 
the game on this play as he was the victim 
of a jarring tackle by Baker. Stahl came in 
to replace Gorski and hooked up with 
flanker John O’Hare for an 11 yard score. 
O’Hare made a sensational catch on the 
play as he was sandwiched between Tartan 
defenders Mike Haupt and Dave Nackuol, 
but somehow he made the catch. Carroll 
went for two on the conversion but failed. 
The Streaks lead was 12-7 as the half 
ended. This set the scene for the big play 
in the third quarter that preserved the 
Streaks victory.
For the Tartan offense it was a case of big 
plays that wouldn’t happen. “We weren’t 
quite able to execute properly on offense” 
said Tartan Coach, Joe Gasparella after the 
loss. Gasparella’s comment concerned an 
offense that was able to move inside the
Have You Tried Our Pizza?
Call 682-5822
9" Rounds withCheese....................................1.30
Mushroom.............................1.65
Pepperoni .............................1.80
Canned Soda ....................................................30
Phone Your Order Ahead
OPEN 8 P.M. TO 1 A.M.
THE LAST SLICE1
(Lower Level of Tartan Grill)
Carroll 30, four times but came away 
empty handed each time.
The Tartans return home following 
three successive away games this Saturday 
as they take on thé Hiram Terriers in a 
PAC game.
Water Polo - Each team must provide a 
certified lifeguard for prac­
tices Matches will be played 
from 8:30 to 9:15 pm, 
beginning October 8.
Chess - Games begin October 7. Jim
Freedman is commissioner.
CMUCarrollSAE is commissioner.
FIRST DOWNS1815Matches start October 8 and
will be played from 7:00
YARDS RUSHING188127to 8:00pm.
YARDS PASSING107167Cross Country . im Cross Country meet
PASSES8-2411-1will be Thusday October 9,
PASSES INTERCEPTED 11at 4:30. There is no pre­
registration for the meet.
PUNTS6-33.58-30.1Be at Flagstaff Hill on Oct­
FUMBLES LOST20ober 9, before the meet
begins t to enter.
YARDS PENALIZED4-404-34 IIM Board - Next meeting is October 14
CMU7 00 0 7at 4:30 in the IM office.
The meeting is open to the
John Carroll6 67 0 19campus.
Faculty Tennis - Schedules can be picked
CMU — West 70 run(McMeekin kick)up in room 104 of the gymn
JC — Borski 8 pass to Corali(kickfail)from Mr. Maloney.
JC — Stahl 11 pass to O'Hare(runfail)MATCHES
JC — Jones 1 run(Mastrain Kick)for week of October 6
SPORTS EVENTS THIS WEEK
Wednesday, October 8-CMU’s Women’s 
Tennis Team meets California State at 
5:00 at home.
Thursday October 9-CMU’s Soccer Team 
will play Point Park at home at 2:30.
Saturday. October 11-Tartans will play 
Hiram’s Football Team at 1:30 on the 
Tech Field.
Bill Banks vs. John Brindle 
Claude Lupis vs Ted Haller 
Roger Pederson vs Oscar Mayer 
Jack McCredie vs Joh. i Nagle
rCARNEGC -MELLON LMVÉRSÍTY FALL 1975
Female
Sexuality
Wednesday 
Oct. 8 
7 pm. Breed Hall
Sponsored by 
Dept, of Stud't Act.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-October 7
WOMEN 
WIN TROPHY
by Oscar Grouch
In a preseason tournament, CMU’s 
Women’s Volleyball Team brought home 
a trophy from the West Virginia Invita­
tional Tournament. The competition 
started in Morgantown on Friday at 
4:00. Teams were seeded from the results 
of these games. CMU was fourth seed 
among seven teams.
Saturday actual tounament play began. 
The team pulled together and looked 
much better than Friday night. In a 
c! contested three game match, 
IVu , ris Harvey slipped past CMU with 
the scores of 15-13, 13-15, and 17-15. In 
the consolation bracket CMU beat Mt. 
Union and Penn State (Fayette) to bring 
home the trophy.
Shepherd College and West Virginia 
University also took home trophies for 
first and second place respectively.
One crucial aspect of the team’s game 
was serving. In the second of a three game 
match against Mt. Union, Alrie Christian 
served six consecutive points which 
pulled CMU into the lead by 11-9. The 
team went on to win 15-11 when Elly 
Zimmerman spiked the Final point. Other 
important points were played when Davina 
Davies set good balls to Judy Parker and 
Audrey Goldstein for put away spikes. 
Renewed enthusiasm caused the team to 
have long volleys which were kept in play 
by dives by Crystal Hoffman and Ingrid 
Goedicke.
Head Coach, Jane Fisk, and assistant, 
Nancy DiCocco, are confident that the 
women’s regular season will be specta­
cular.
BUGGY HEAD FEMALE
Photo by Jim Johnston 
CMU Soccer player on way to scoring.
SOCCER SPLITS
Splitting a pair of home games last week, 
the Tartan soccer team lost to Pitt 3-1 
on Tuesday and shutout John Carroll 4-0 
on Friday.
CMU jumped to a 3-0 lead in the first 
half against Carroll. Scoring were Rick 
Holmes, Tom Bennie and team captain Bob 
Russel. Russel had the rare distinction 
of netting his tally on a penalty kick.
An insurance goal was added in the 
second half by freshman Patrick Crump 
on a partially deflected shot.
Against Pitt, CMU was ahead only once, 
moving oat to 1-0 lead at the start of the 
game, scoring from the middle of the field, 
just two minutes later, the Panthers slipped 
'through to tie the score at 1-1. No more 
,goals were scored until the final five 
minutes of the game. With the second 
half drawing to a close, Pitt scored the 
go ahead tally. In a desperate attempt to 
tie the score, the Tartans forgot to play 
defense and the lapse allowed Pitt to score 
cont: jnued on page nineteen
by L.S.D.C.FIRST IN HISTORY
OPINION
One of the last strongholds of male 
chauvinism has finally succumbed to the 
hands of a woman. This year for the first 
time in the history of buggy racing, pend­
ing the approval of student senate, a 
woman will act as Sweepstakes Chair­
person. This unprecedented event was 
brought about by the fact that no eligible 
male candidate for the position could be 
found. There was one male applicant for 
the job but he graduated last year and is no 
longer eligible for the job. With no man 
willing to accept the many duties and re­
sponsibilities of the chairmanship, a wom­
an rose to the call. She is Joan Bothwell, a 
sophomore design student.
Ms. Bothwell is not the most qualified 
person on campus to fill this position, but 
she has the one quality that sets her apart 
from others - her willingness to try. Being 
a sophmore, she has only one year of 
experience with the very unique phenom­
enon of buggy racing. This could be a dis­
advantage to her in the role of chairperson. 
However, the largest part of the duties of a 
Sweepstakes Chairperson are managerial 
in nature and don’t depend on a great deal 
of experience or knowledge concerning 
buggy racing. Furthermore, Joan is not 
closely associated with any one particular 
buggy racing organization. This should help 
to make her one of the most impartial 
chairpersons ever.
The lack of candidates for the position 
of Sweepstakes Chairperson this year is not 
a rare occurrence. Seldom is there more 
than one or two applicants. This is not 
surprising. The job is tough and thankless. 
Pew people outside those directly involved 
with buggy ever know how much work the
chairperson really does. Many of the 
people involved with buggy complain 
about the job the chairperson is doing.
Ms. Bothwell is a very courageous 
young woman. She has taken on a task 
that no man wanted, and will have to per­
form that task under very unique con­
ditions. Whether or not she will be a 
“good” or a “bad” chairperson remains 
to be seen, but it will be determined only 
by her abilities as a leader and an organ­
izer. For the sake of buggy racing, let’s 
hope that her abilities are far more 
than adequate. Sweepstakes cannot afford 
to have another year like last one.
POSITIVE ACTION TAKEN BY IM BOARD
The IM Board has taken positive action 
on recent criticism concerning the IM 
Constitution. At the last meeting the IM 
Board President, Paul Sielski, appointed 
a committee to study possible revisions 
of the constitution. This committee 
will also try to iron out wrinkles in the 
present Board’s policies. Committee 
members include Paul Sielski, two rep­
resentatives from DTD and Elly Zimmer­
man.
The Board also ruled that Varsity 
Volleyball players will not be allowed 
to compete in IM six person volleyball 
but they are allowed to compete in 
co-rec volleyball and three man volley­
ball.
A controversy arose at the meeting 
concerning the protest rules applicable 
to IM’s. A fraternity had not filed a 
protest correctly and therefore the game 
could not be contested. The reason for 
the protest was the refereeing.
—Parade-Pittsburgh Press— 
28 Sept 1975 
Fever Ms
lobs for last June's bachelor de­
gree holders are down by 24 per 
cent, from 1973-74, acconfiog to 
the College Placement Council.
Manufacturing and industrial 
have made the shaipest cu»~ 
!>*!* m recntftiog bachelor dr 
gree holders.
Af the masters degree level, job 
offers are down by 18 per cent and 
for Ph.D/s by 37 per cent.
Regardless of the newfound em­
phasis on hiring more women, 
they received 13 per cent fewer 
job offers than last year, though 
the decrease for men was 26 per 
cent.
It Happens of CMU Too !
c.MuAsiAaby
Job
AccPn
nExAperaB*23
lcarZC°'*ng 
Bradi
obi,
^75
to•nforrnat' ot Clx 0'VICes^ndpi'i)rrT1alion t
n°w aJCfn,e'»sOfr°n'C,T ann ye<1- Ah 2,% rroï Ce’63%, . nd 2]<y „ Ad<litinn 777 Af/cchoo] T1, . ^ from irwSchooi T,. 
either ' Thsk
after
the
Months
m AKl$
Tm ra,e 'irom
iti0
are aves an ^ are 
Phne'nP'oyed3yerage °r 37?,ace"»nts „°'UdnJ7%*ho
SraduOfrh3ti0nice’*not
« 1115.and cpA
sUrv,resPoeynd
four
3»% in 'Zi" '“¦verthf*
CFA varyjn e/TWoy-j
44% * &ssrange>
», Ho*ever ari(ij
//> e/7le/i,s ’anT S,a"s"« f / pracncal ’d o£°mhaiç , CaHy Office*
JOhs*thin J, 0< "* gral
fe" yea« dua,es m
both
Give Yourself A Job Option at Graduation A commission in the U. S. Army, through ROTC( 
currently gives you the opportunity to serve from three (3) months to four (4) years on 
active duty. What better way to guarantee a job while you look for a career.
Over 50 C-MU students have enrolled.
For Information Contact Major John Carey
203 Gym - Ext. 281 B-6 MMCC - Ext. 409

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 7—Page 19
ORIENTEERING?
by Jim Balik
One of the newest sports in the U.S. 
has found a home, here, at CMU. It’s najjie 
is Orienteering, and it has it’s headquarters 
in the CMU ROTC Department.
Orienteering is a combination of cross­
-country and land navigation with the aid 
of a topographical map and compass. In 
competion, the objective of the sport is to 
find a set of control markers, designated 
on the map, and return to tfie finish line 
in the fastest possible time. The runners 
rely on their own knowledge, skill, and 
ability as they compete against nature, 
time, and terrain while moving along the 
^ course.
* This sport, while being rather new to 
our area and the entire U.S., is an old sport 
in Europe, where it has been around for 
half a century. Here at CMU, it was intro­
duced about the beginning of the last school 
term, and it was bound for success.
Sponsored by the ROTC, the Pathfinder 
Orienteering Club has traveled as far as 
Michigan to compete in Orienteering 
meets. During April of this year the club 
made it’s first successful jump into the 
orienteering world. In the Western 
Maryland College ROTC Invitational Orien­
teering Meet, Ed Klemenciz and Desmond 
McKnight teamed together to win “Individ­
ual Team First Place.” The combined CMU 
team placed second overall in their respec­
tive category. Their travel to Michigan 
proved to be worth the effort.
During May third and fourth at 
Kalamazoo, Michigan, the CMU Pathfinder 
Orienteering Club made a lasting impres­
sion with their competitors. Out of this 
National Competition emerged Ed 
Klemenciz who placed first in the Interme­
diate Division and Marvin Brown who 
placed third, nationally, in the Novice 
division. CMU had established itself firmly 
in National Competition.
The CMU ROTC will be sponsoring an 
Orienteering Meet in West Deer Lake State
Park on October 18, at noon. Teams from 
colleges such as: Bucknell, Pitt, Washington 
and Jefferson, Geneva, Loyola, and IUP 
will be among the competition for this 
meet. It has been arranged so that any 
student, male or female, wanting to com­
pete in the sport at this meet will be -able 
to by entering in an “Open Category”. 
Anyone interested in competing in this 
meet should be at the ROTC Dept, on 
October 18 at 10:00. For more informa­
tion, stop by the ROTC Headquarters in 
the basement of Margaret Morrison. Ar­
rangements are in the process for an Inter- 
University Meet for the middle of October. 
Participation by CMU in these arranged 
meets would greatly solidify the founda­
tion the ROTC has made for the sport of 
orienteering.
This sport will be the trial sport for the
1976 Olympics and it will only be a matter 
of time before this sport blooms into 
popularity in the U.S. as the cycling sport 
has.
SOCCER CON'T
continued from page eighteen
their third and final goal.
Early in the second half, Tartan goalie 
Tim Bosch had to leave the game with a 
dislocated shoulder.
Commenting on the Tartans physical 
style of play, one Pitt player stated, “they 
don’t use much finesse, they just kick the 
hell out of you.”
Not only was the style of play 
rough, but the Pitt team also 
voiced complaints about the cond­
ition of the playing field, claiming 
it was the most tom up field 
they had ever played on.
In the John Carroll game, 
CMU outshot the Blue Streaks 
42-12. The win brings the Tartan’s 
record to 1-1 in the PAC.
Photo by Rick Frantz 
Cross-Country team on way to easy victory .
X-COUNTRY 
WINS AGAIN
by Stacey Kimbell
The fine Schenley Park turf for 
Saturdays’ Cross Country meet against 
Hiram and Geneva College was5 augmented 
by a show of magnificent weather which 
until now, had not been following the team 
around. All conditions were conducive for 
the great defeat CMU staged against 
Hiram and Geneva.
CMU slaughtered Hiram by a huge 
margin of 15-49. The distance against 
Geneva was much closer with a final score 
of 27-30 in CMU’s favor.
CMU’s men who placed were Dave 
Barby in 23 minutes and thirty nine 
seconds, Larry Gordon 23:56, John 
Lewandowski 23:57, Jack Daly 24:11 and 
Mark Howard 24:44.
This race puts the Cross Country 
Team 4-0 so far for this season. According 
to Coach Gary Meckley, the team has won 
their last 12 meets. Out of 40 meets 
they’ve won 33 and in 4 years they have 
only been defeated on home ground twice.
uo cwwjAbOO gHp“Ojp
through October1
Majorswinloss
Pika A40
BTP A40
All Stars31
ATO13
Dolphins22
SAE12
Spirit04
PKT A03
Intermediate Awinloss
KS30
GSIA12
Pika B11
DTD02
TX21
Stink12
Intermediate Bwinloss
Clams12
Oilers21
Red Death20
McGilldoes11
SN12
ZBT12
Minors Awinloss
Slugs21
Gorillas12
Lobsters03
T urkeys12
Sabres20
Ogres21
Minors Bwii>loss
Dungeons20
Rangers20
DU02
PKT B20
PL Phi02
BetaC02
Hear
WAINRIGHT
"THE MORNING 
AFTER”
7-9:30 A.M.
The fever that wont break:
THE RISING COSTOF A MEDICAL EDUCA
Like most things, the cost of 
attending medical school 
has risen sharply 
over the last 
decade. To many 
medical students 
that cost repre­
sents a heavy 
burden, a financial 
problem that can 
affect your con­
centration.
It needn't be 
that way The 
Armed Forces 
Health Professions 
Scholarship Program 
was originated to 
free you from those 
worries. Men and 
women who qualify 
will have the costs of 
their medical educa­
tion covered, and 
will also receive a 
substantial monthly 
allowance.
The program offers 
more than tuition and 
salary; it offers you the 
opportunity to begin 
your practice under very 
favorable conditions. As a health care officer in 
the military branch of your choice, you'll find 
yourself with responsibilities fully in keeping with 
your training, and with the time and opportunity to 
observe a ftjll spectrum of medical specialties.
When you decide on the specialty you wish to 
pursue, you may find yourself taking those 
graduate medical studies at one of our many 
large and modern medical centers If so, you can 
count on that training being second to nope.
Both the clinical and research work being done 
in them have made Army, Navy and Air Force 
hospitals a major new national medical resource.
If s a long road, but thejrst step is simple. Just 
send in the coupon. The detgfls we send you may 
make the whole \flay a little arnoolh^r
V*
'AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF DISEASE" 
PUBLISHED BY LEA iiFEBIGER-PHILADELPHIA
Armed Forces Health Care
DEDICATED TO HEALTH CARE AND 
THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT
Armed Forces Scholarships Z-CN-105
P O Box AF 
Peona 1616*1
Yes. I am interested m Armed Forces Health Professions 
Scholarship opportunities I understand there is no obligation 
I am especially interested in
? Army ? Navy O Aw Force
? Physician ? Dental O Podiatry’ ? Optometry
D Veterinary' Q Psychology (PhD)'
(Please Print)
.SanQM OF
.Phone-
City___________
Social Security *_ 
Enrollment at___
To graduate m_
(monlh year)
_(School)- 
-Degree—
'\<teterinaty and Podiatry not available m Novy Program 
Podiatry and Psychology not availabte m Army Program.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-October 7
l
A. B. PRESENTS:
1975 Homecoming 
Concert
IN 
CONCERT
RAMSEY LEWIS
>
L)
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10.1975 
IN THE GYM
Tickets available at C.M.U. Information Desk, 
Pitt Student Union, and National Record Mart. 
Tickets: $3.50 w/C.M.U. I.D., $4.50 without, 
$5.00 Day of Show.
>1
