Volume 89, Issue 8 Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 1906 31 October 1994
Registration could go on-line
Various departments collect data concerning on-line services
A branch of the Philosophy Department and offices for H&SS will be moving Into 
the old Post Office and Campus Security areas when construction Is completed.Departments plan to 
change their location
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
To add to the changes and reloca­
tions around campus, more facilities 
will soon be moving. Instructional 
Technology (IT) may move its opera­
tions to Building D, while the Center 
for the Advancement of Applied Eth­
ics, and offices forvthe Modem Lan­
guage, Psychology, andPhilosophyDe- 
partment are scheduled to move into 
the first floor of Baker Hall.
The changes in Baker Hall occurred 
as a result of space vacated by the Post 
Office and Campus Security which are 
now located in the Student Center. IT, 
now located in the basement of Hunt 
Library, may change locations in or­
der to help solve some of Hunt’s space 
problems.
Hunt Library has been “having space 
problems for a number of years,” said 
Gregg Mathis, the Acting Director of 
Educational Technology. “[IT] occu­
pies the majority of the basement [in 
Hunt], and we’re not affiliated with 
the library ... we’re squatters,” said 
Mathis. The University Planning 
Group asked IT if they would be able 
to relocate; Mathis said we “believe we 
can be functional in Building D.” The
move has not yet been confirmed, but 
is in the planning stages.
Mathis said there were several 
spaces considered and while Building 
D is not the most ideal location, Mathis 
said it is “adequate, and with reason­
able modifications we can improve 
our services.” A concern with Build­
ing D that has arisen with other is­
sues, like that of relocating the Wean 
food carts, has been with the building’s 
accessibility. Mathis said “handi­
capped access is a concern, but [it’s] 
not an impossibility.”
There are two main approaches to 
access Building D. The first is the 
elevator bank in Wean Hall that lets 
off at the first floor. Mathis sees this 
as an advantage over Hunt Library’s 
one elevator. There are also tunnels 
that run from Smith Hall into Build­
ing D. The move will have to occur 
during an inactive period on campus, 
because the “notion of stopping ser­
vices is not one of our options,” said 
Mathis. If the move is not completed 
during Christmas Break, it will be 
done after commencement in 1995. 
Mathis also hopes that if IT moves to 
Building D, and other services follow, 
it will make an area “not currently
?loica caa IUim/IM/2
By MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Staffwriter
There is a good possibility that CMU 
will soon be making certain services 
available to on-line users.
Various departments on campus have 
been collecting data on how to improve 
the registration process. The informa­
tion will be used “as a basis to decide how 
to provide better services,” according to 
Assistant Vice-President of Planning and 
Budget Jeff Bolton.
Student input will be considered on 
how this will be accomplished. There 
will be focus groups, as well as surveys. 
“[There will] probably be some techno­
logical answers ... no definite decisions 
have been made,” he said.
“Technological answers” could include
making it possible for students to regis­
ter on-line, as well as to contact the 
cashier and the Financial Aid depart­
ment. Bolton feels that there is “a great 
deal of interest... for some sort of on-line 
registration.”
The Academic Affairs Committee of 
Student Government is also involved in 
the decision-making process. The Aca­
demic Affairs Committee, along with 
Student Services,, is “composing an e- 
mail survey as to what should be done 
first,” according to Academic Affairs 
Committee chair, Kami White. The sur­
vey will go out to approximately 1,000 
students.
White feels that there is a need for 
“greater integration and communication 
between the three areas [registration, 
financial aid, and the cashier].”
Many other campuses across the na­
tion already have on-line registration 
systems in place. “A good number of 
grad students had on-line registration 
at their undergraduate schools,” said 
White. “People find it odd we don’t have 
it.”
The Academic Affairs Committee feels 
that registration should be the first of 
the three systems to go on-line, since “it 
affects everyone and it happens twice a 
year,” said White.
Apparently, there is also a need for 
funding for the project, as well as sev­
eral security concerns .
Another concern is that students will 
be too anxious to use the on-line sys­
tems, and will not go to their advisors for 
advice on their scheduling. Advisors are 
still necessary for making up a schedule.CMU pipe and drum band takes first
By EMILY ROSENTHAL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s Pipe and Drum 
Band earned first place in their class at 
the Anne Arrundel Highland Games in 
Maryland on October 8. The competition 
marked an exciting victory for the band, 
which is composed primarily of under­
graduate students and alumni. Although 
the band was relatively inactive for many 
years, it is now going strong under the 
leadership of James Macintosh. 
Macintosh is one of the world’s top 
ranked bagpipers. Now Macintosh is 
the official Pipe Instructor of the Band. 
“It’s really a great honor to have such a 
talented and internationally recognized 
musician training our band,” said Jessie 
Ramey, a graduate of CMU.
The Pipe and Drum competitions were 
started by Scottish immigrants who 
wanted to keep their bagpipirig tradi­
tion alive. “There are often several com­
petitions every weekend all over the 
country,” said Ramey. The competitions 
are large events and definitely draw a 
crowd. Aside from the bagpiping por­
tion, competitions include awards for 
dancers, drummers, and all Highland 
games.
The Carnegie Mellon Pipe and Drum 
Band competes in three major competi-
nnufew ivicuermoix/ lanari pnoiograpner
The CMU Pipe and Drum band recently took first prize in their class at the Ann Arrundel 
Highland Games held in Maryland. The band is directed by James Macintosh.
tions. Ramey is proud of the success of 
the Band since “it is difficult for a college 
band to compete, because the competi­
tions take place weekly throughout the 
summer, and obviously we don’t go to all 
of those....”
“After three months of complete sepa­
ration over the summer the Band prac­
ticed intensively together for only three 
weeks prior to the recent Anne Arrundel 
Competition, and walked off the field 
with three silver trophies,” Ramey said.
In this recent competition, Patrick Regan 
placed first in Grade I, DaveFogel placed 
first in Grade IV, and Craig Snethen, in 
his first competition, placed third in 
Grade IV March. The local Carnegie 
Mellon community takes great pride in 
the band.
The university provides the uniforms 
and the bagpipes. According to Ramey, 
“Carnegie Mellon is the only school in 
the world that offers a major in 
bagpiping.”
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photo Editor
Haunting Evening
‘n’ Soda opened up their annual Haunted House in the basemnet of Margaret Morrison 
Students were permitted to walk through the haunted halls and enjoy the horror.
Assault alleged at Pitt campus
By HEATHER ZINDLE
Tartan Staffwriter
On September 10, during a 
party at University of 
Pittsburgh’s Phi Gamma Delta, 
in a “combined” event with two 
other fraternities, Delta Tau 
Delta and Sigma Chi, an alleged 
sexual assault occurred. Accord­
ing to Rick Boyd, Director of Pub­
lic Safety at Pitt, “there wasn’t 
enough evidence to issue formal 
charges.” but he turned his re­
port over to Dr. Leon Haley, Vice 
Chancellor for Student and Pub­
lic Affairs.
According to Boyd, it has not 
been substantiated that rape oc­
curred, but he did conclude that a 
sexual assault occur. According 
to the report issued on October 26 
by Dr. Haley to the University of 
Pittsburgh community, “there is 
ample reason to believe that a 
number of men may have been 
active or passive participants in 
this activity, and that the victim 
was so intoxicated that she was 
unable to act in her own best 
interest.”
It goes onto state that the “open 
and public sexual activity which 
did occur in an unlocked bath­
room” shows a disregard “for the 
moral values we expouse as an 
institution”, and “a disregard for
the rights of the victim. ” Accord­
ing to Boyd, despite a lengthy 
investigation by the University 
of Pittsburgh Police, because of 
the large number of people at the 
party, and also because of the 
amount of underage drinking 
which occurred, the identities of 
the participants in the sexual 
incident, except for the victim, 
remain unknown.
Dr. Haley also took into ac­
count a report submitted to him 
by the Interfraternity Council, 
and endorsed their recommended 
actions to be taken against the 
fraternities participating in the 
party.
All three fraternities will be 
required to undergo educational 
programming addressing sexu­
ally related issues and implica­
tions of excessive alcohol con­
sumption , organize a service pro­
gram for both substance abuse 
and women’s issues, and sponsor 
the President’s Roundtable, to ad­
dress liability issues of concern to 
the Greek System.
In addition, Phi Gamma Delta, 
where the alleged assault oc­
curred, was placed under social 
probation for one year, and the 
other two houses are under social 
probation for the remainder of 
the semester.
Julie Crowell, Pitt Government
Board Public Safety’s represen­
tative, believes that “there is a 
healthy climate for reporting 
sexual assaults, and this case 
should not reflect the way all in­
cidents are dealt with, because of 
the number of people at the party, 
and the lack of consistent wit­
nesses.”
According to Crowell, there has 
been a move to make things as 
easy as possible for the victim, 
especially withBoyd’s new Sexual 
Assault Victim’s Guarantee.
So far this year, according to 
Chief Jim LaPaglia, “There have 
been no reports of sexual assault 
or rape on campus,” although 
there was a reported kidnapping 
and sexual assault of a female 
CMU student on Fifth avenue.
The suspect was arrested by 
Pittsburgh Police and was crimi­
nally prosecuted.
There have not been any as­
sault charges brought up for pros­
ecution within the past five years 
although, there have been cases 
of assault on campus.
Campus Security works with 
Katie Stannard and student af­
fairs in developing prevention 
programs to assist students, be­
cause, according to LaPaglia, “A 
university wide approach is more 
effective than decentralized ap­
proach.”
89,Isu
Calendar.............................112
Ciassfied................................................11
Comics...................................................L5
Diversions...............................:..............LI
Features.................................................L2
Forum.......................................................6
Sports......................................................9
VoxPopuli..............................................L12
euC,
89,Is, ueC,a rngC 
si MlniC ou9aC U 
aCC esvC t
aurngiu,
os,yn'se s''Caa 
u, 'sIe9a U aCC 
esvC St
MIlui,Io9,
dlgCC NnwCga pncI 
pCainwsc egCwnC1Cy U 
aCC esvC S0
Uvoin,
6C,3a au''Cg IsOCa 
b422 ecsTurra U aCC 
esvC h
THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan * Carnegie Mellon » 31 October 1994
do0* »•*d 0b
White House fired
on; President safe
WASHINGTON DC, October 19, - 
Without warning, a gunman walked 
up to the White House took out a 
Chinese-made SKS semi-automatic 
rifle and fired 15 rounds while Presi­
dent Clinton was inside relaxing after 
his Middle East tour Saturday after­
noon. The attacker was wrestled to 
the ground, eyewitnesses said.
The Secret Service has identified 
the gunman as Francisco Martin 
Duran, a 26-year-old male from Colo­
rado Springs, Co. He had served in the 
armyuntil 1.991, whenhewasdishon- 
orably discharged after he pleaded 
guilty to felony assault charges. He 
was sentenced to five years in prisión. 
He served only four.
Bystanders stopped Duran as he was 
attempting to reload his weapon. They 
pinned him down until the Secret Ser­
vice arrived, witnesses said.
According to officials, the President 
was watching television at the time of 
the attack. There were no injuries re­
ported. Duran emptied theentir round 
at the White House. “We estmate be­
tween 20 and 30 rounds,” said Susan 
Lloyd, media spokesperson for the FBI 
Washington DC field office. The Se­
cret Service said that five bullets hit 
the face of the White House, while one 
went through a window into the press 
room and lodged itself in the window­
sill.
According to Lloyd, “[Duran] had 
been loitering outside the White House 
for some time.” Lloyd said he hadques-
tioned bystanders about immigration 
and other topics, before opening fir e. 
Duran was standing ouside the iron 
fence that surrounds the grounds and 
facing the front of the White House.
This latest attack on The White 
House has brought back old questions 
about White House Security. Only six
aircraft crashed into the White House 
a few yards from the president’s Oval 
Office after it evaded security mea­
sures, which included snipers on the 
roof armed with Stinger anti-aircraft 
missiles.
CNN television had a crew at the 
White House around the time of the 
attack. They were able to film Duran 
being taken away by police. He will be 
arraigned on Monday and will be 
charged with willful destruction of 
government property, possession of a 
firearm by a convicted felon and trans­
portation of a weapon accross state 
lines. The two latter charges were 
brough up by the Burea of Alcohol, 
Tobacco and Firearms. “At this point 
he is not being charged with attempted 
assassination,” said Lloyd.
Early on Sunday, the Secret Service 
combed the White House lawn looking 
for clues. They also searched Duran's 
home and truck to determine the mo­
tivation behind the shooting. No clues 
were found. Duran has made no com­
ment that has been released other 
than a request for an attorney, which 
he has received.
Israel, Jordan endorse historic peace accord
WADI ARABA, Israel-Jordan Border, 
October 26, - In a dramatic ceremony 
Wednesday which included prayers,10,000 brightly colored balloons, and a 
21-gun salute, Israel and Jordan signed 
a peace treaty in Wadi Araba that ended 
46 years of war. The treaty was signed in 
the city that lies on the borders of the 
two countries.
The treaty was signed by Prime Min­
ister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel and Prime 
Minister Abdel Salam Majali of Jordan, 
and was witnessed by President Clinton. 
There were a number of foreign digni­
taries who watched the ceremony to 
demonstrate unity against Arabs who 
oppose the treaty.
There were still signs of disapproval,
as guerrillas in Lebanon fired rockets 
into northern Israel just within the 
hour of the signing of the treaty to 
display their anger.
In honor of the United States’ involve­
ment in the peace process, bands from 
both Jordan and Israel played “The Star 
Spangled Banner.”
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat was 
not invited to the ceremony, which made 
the Palestinians skeptical about the 
treaty.
They feared they would loose their 
opportunity for statehood in the rush for 
Israeli peace. Foreign Minister Shimon 
Peres of Israel wanted Arafat to attend 
the ceremony, but said that Arafat wrote 
himself out of the script.
1 111!
Clinton applauds troops in Kuwait
DOHA, Kuwait, October 28 - Accom­
panied by loud cheers, Bill Clinton all 
but promised U.S. ground forces in Ku­
wait that they would be home by Christ­
mas.
“Don’t forget to do your Christmas 
shopping,” Clinton joked to more than 
1,500 Americans at Tactical Assembly 
Area Liberty, which is 50 miles from the 
Iraqi border. He also called the soldiers 
“the steel in the sword of American di­
plomacy.”
In a scene made for television, Clinton 
spoke from a camoflage-draped lectern 
on a platform flanked by two Ml A tanks, 
their machine guns manned by helmeted 
soldiers.
However, despite Clinton’s optimism, 
military officials said that a sizable 
American presence would be maintained 
to carry out “near continuous” exercises 
even as ground troops are rotated home.
Clinton’s trip to Kuwait was some­
thing of a victory lap. He ordered the 
buildup of American troops in the Gulf 
this month to force the withdrawal of
70,000 Iraqi troops massed at the Ku­
waiti border.
Clinton will decide when to call the 
troops home on the basis of advice from 
military officials, who are already ar­
ranging withdrawal schedules. “We’ll 
make a decision pretty soon,” said 
Clinton.
Clinton’s hint at withdrawals was 
welcome news to the troops, some of 
whom took their first showers in three 
weeks on Thursday.American, Cuban talks wind down
HAVANA, October 26—Late Wednes­
day, talks between the United States 
and Cuba wound up. Both sides said 
that some aspects of implementing a 
September accord needed more work. 
Neither delegation elaborated on what 
those aspects were. The talks were a 
follow-up to the September 9 agreement.
Ricardo Alarcon, a former foreign min­
ister and leader of the Cuban delega­
tion, says that in assessing progress, 
“we have identified areas (implement­
ing the accord) that need more work.” 
He added that there could be more dis­
cussion before the U.S. delegation leaves 
on Thursday. The talks began Monday.
According to Dennis Hays, “both sides 
are satisfied with the progress we have 
made to date, although there are also 
some issues which over time we will 
continue to work on.”
Hays added that the talks, which had 
been slated to end on Tuesday, lasted 
longer than expected to ensure clarity
on all points and to make sure that both 
sides were satisfied with what the other 
side had done to implement the deal.
The accord states that Cuba would 
stop letting people set out to sea and the 
United States would boost the number 
of emigrant visas granted to Cubans to 
at least 20,000. The accord halted the 
exodus of some 35,000 Cubans sailing to 
Florida in flimsy rails.
Public comments by both sides were 
kept to a minimum over the duration of 
the talks. However, Alarcon strongly 
criticized a decision to stop temporary 
repatriation of a group of Cubans held at 
the Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay. He 
described the decision by Federal Judge 
Clyde Atkins as “something out of magic 
realism,” and stated that he did not 
think a judge in Florida had jurisdiction 
over the Guantanamo base.
Approximately 32,000 Cuban rafters 
are housed at the Guantanamo base and 
at other U.S. bases in Cuba, where they 
will stay indefinitely unless they decide 
to return to Cuba, where they may apply 
for visas.Woman’s killers receive jail term
CAPE TOWN, South Africa, October 
26 - The three men convicted of killing 
American student Amy Biehl were con­
victed by a judge on Wednesday to 18 
years in prison instead of the death 
penalty.
High Court Judge Gerald Friedman 
said that Biehl, a Fulbright scholar in 
South Africa to help educate voters, “was 
killed for one reason only, namely be­
cause she had white skin.” Friedman 
imposed the sentences a day after con­
victing Mongezi Manuia, 22; Mzikhona 
Nofemela, 19 and Vusumzi Ntamo, 23; 
all members of the militant Pan 
Africanist Students’ Organization. In 
deciding against the death penalty, 
Friedman said it was possible that the 
young men could become useful citizens, 
“despite the fact that they have shown 
no remorse.”
Defense lawyer Justice Pozwa had 
argued the judge should suspend most 
of the jail term. He described Manqina 
and Nofemela as “very fine human be­
ings,” and said they would not be able to 
reach their full potential if they had to 
serve long jail sentences.
Prosecutor Nollie Niehaus sought the 
death penalty, despite the fact that all 
executions in South Africa have been 
suspended for the last three years. Biehl’s 
mother, Linda, said that her family was 
opposed to the death penalty. She wants 
a sentence “as rehabilitative as possible” 
that can “turn these people around and 
make them better citizens.”
Originally seven people were accused 
of the murder. However, charges were
dropped against three of them when a 
key witness refused to testify.
The fourth is a minor who ran away 
from home. He has since been appre. 
hended and prosecutors intend to try 
him separately.Russia laments on major oil spill
WASHINGTON, October 25 - In a 
spill that could be up to eighty times as 
big as the Exxon Valdez spill in Alaska 
between 100,000 and 2 million barrelsof 
heavy crude oil are seeping through a 
Russian Arctic river, said an 
Department official on Tuesday.
According to Deputy Energy Secre­
tary Bill White, officials of Russia’s Komi 
province near the Barents Sea estimate 
the spill at about 100,000 barrels. How­
ever, a U.S. oil service company at the 
site estimated the spill at 2 million bar­
rels.
White stated that the size of the spill 
can not be ascertained, but he also said 
the unidentified company felt the 2 mil- 
lion barrel estimate “was plausible.”
Oil from the spill could reach the Arc­
tic Ocean by spring, damaging the frag­
ile Arctic environment; “Life within the 
river is endangered by an oil slick ofthis 
size. It takes a long time for the Arctic 
environment to recuperate,” White said, 
showing a film of burning oil on a tribu­
tary of the Pechora River near Usinsk.
The U.S. has offered to send a team of 
experts to aid in the clean-up, but there 
has been no response from Russia, White 
said.
White told PBS’ MacNeil/Lehrer 
NewshourthatafewU.S. officials would 
be on the first plane from London to 
Russia Wednesday “to assess the dam­
age and come up with a plan.”
He added, “There is not much prece­
dent in dealing with a large amount of 
oil in an Arctic river.” The river is ex­
pected to freeze in about two weeks.
A “bootlegged video-tape” has been 
brought in from Russia within the last 
48 hours.
The tape shows a lake of oil behind an 
earthen dam and oil burning in the river, 
which was apparently set afire inten­
tionally in “attempts to slow the spill 
once it migrated into the river.”
White said, “We understand that the 
leaks have been occurring since Febru­
ary of this year.
“We received reports that the pipeline 
had numerous leaks. Some had been 
patched.”
Briefs compiled by 
Edward Hayes
Edited by 
Max Chittister
SPRING 1995
REGISTRATION WEEK
GRADUATES
(BASED ON SPRING 1995 CLASS STATUS) 
4TH/5TH YR JUNIORS SOPHOMORES
SENIORS
FRESHMAN 
(EXCEPT CIT/MCS/SCS)
ALL OTHERS
MONDAY 
NOVEMBER 14
MONDAY 
NOVEMBER 14
TUESDAY 
NOVEMBER 15
WEDNESDAY 
NOVEMBER 16
THURSDAY 
NOVEMBER 17
FRIDAY 
NOVEMBER 18
All students (except CIT/MCS/SCS freshmen) should register during Registration Week if they wish to enroll for Spring 1995. If you won t be 
returning (for reasons other than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence (marked "Spring 1995") to the 
Office of the Registrar, Warner Hall 201.
All eligible students (except CIT/MCS/SCS freshmen) will have received an e-mail message sent to them, the week of October 24, explaining 
the registration process. Registration/Add/Drop forms and the Spring 1995 Schedule of Classes are available at the Student Center 
Information Desk, outside the CFA Dean’s Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall. CIT/MSC/SCS freshmen will 
have received instructions for registration from their dean's office.
HOWTO REGISTER
1. Pick up a Spring 1995 Schedule of Classes and a Registration/Add/Drop (RAD) form.
2. Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisor’s approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend 
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not be processed.
3. Go to the departments teaching the course(s) in which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD.
Remember that if you are on a "wait list" for a course, you are not registered for the course: you must'add the course later (if approved).
4. Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a "pre-registration" prior to Registration Week. They'll send you instructions if necessary.
’Brought to you from the Office of the Registrar, Warner Hall 201. 268-2004

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 19943
Carnegie Mellon in BriefGSO proposes new lounge area
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Skibo’s down. Everyone seems to have 
moved except the graduate coffeehouse. 
Back in September the Graduate Stu­
dent Organization (GSO) decided not to 
re-open the coffeehouse for a number of 
reasons.
When everyone began to move into the 
naval reserve building, the coffeehouse 
was allotted room 221. When the opera­
tors of the coffeehouse checked into 
things, they found that the new space 
was 64% smaller than their location in 
Skibo. This would mean that after all of 
the kitchen appliances and countertops 
were installed, there would only be room 
for about twenty to twenty-five people to 
relax in the coffeehouse. GSO felt that 
this wouldn’t be beneficial to either their 
organization or the students. Having 
space for only twenty-five people, GSO 
felt that the new coffeehouse wouldn’t 
be able to provide a relaxing environ-
This week’s events on campus as re­
ported by The Tartan.
50 YEARS AGO: “Last Saturday 
evening in Thistle Hall at the Hallow­
een Hop, the first college dance since 
last June, Carnegie students really out­
did themselves and showed that if so­
cial life here is well-nigh non-existant 
at times, it must just be that everyone is 
busy storing up his energies,” reported 
The Tartan.
25 YEARS AGO: According to The
ment. When everything finally boiled 
down, it was decided not to re-open the 
coffeehouse as a coffeehouse.
Tim Mallo, president of GSO, began 
working on a proposal for a lounge area 
to “replace” the coffeehouse. The pro­
posal included things like carpeting, 
couches, tables, chairs, information 
racks, and a stereo system just to name 
a few. In order to put this proposal into 
action, GSO is asking for a grant of 
$5,000 from Student Senate to start the 
renovations. When this fact came to light 
a lot of people complained. Back in May, 
the coffeehouse was given a start-up 
budget of $10,000 to relocate to the Na­
val Building. In checking into this, it 
was found that part of the proposal is 
asking Student Senate to rescind the 
$10,000 grant and to match the $5,000 
that GSO procured from Michael Murphy 
and Student Affairs.
Mallo feels that the new lounge will 
benefit not only the graduate students, 
but the undergraduates as well. “We’re
CMU Almanac
Tartan, “The House of Representatives 
passed a military procurement bill that 
requires the Defense Department to file 
reports to Congress 60 days before 
awarding any research contract or grant 
to a college or university.
“The reports would summarize the 
institution’s cooperation in all military 
and defense organizations.”
15 YEARS AGO: ‘The legacy of 
Watergate is that it will be a long time 
before we will have another one,’ John
just tryingto do something to benefit the 
entire campus. All we want is a place to 
go and relax.”
The new lounge will have a display 
rack for things like Dissertation News 
and Thesis News. There will also be an 
identical display rack for Student Sen­
ate agendas and minutes from the meet­
ing. Also included with the lounge, will 
be upscale vending machines that will 
be available to the students. GSO is also 
looking into the possibility of having a 
food cart operate out of the lounge, but 
that has yet to be decided upon.
In the end, GSO wants to have a place 
to recapture the environment that the 
Tilted Square had. Since Senate has yet 
to vote on the idea, the issue is still up in 
the air. Merle Atkinson, chair of the 
Funding and Recognition Committee for 
Senate, could not be reached for com­
ment. If the lounge is approved, con­
struction will start tentatively on No­
vember 3 and is projected to last four 
weeks.
Dean, counsel to former President Rich­
ard M. Nixon, said at an Activities Board 
lecture,” reported The Tartan.
5 YEARS AGO: The Tartan reported 
that “It’s likely that Skibo will be torn 
down and replaced with a new Univer­
sity Center. It will be nearly twice its 
size, according to members of the re­
cently formed University Center Com­
mittee. A final decision on the fate of the 
stalled Center will not be expected until 
the Board of Trustees meets.
Building D food court postponed
The Food Court scheduled to open in 
Building D has been delayed once again 
due to financial reasons. It is now sched­
uled to open at the start of the Spring 
Semester.
According to Mark Hamlin, Director 
of Dining Services, the delay is because 
of a “cost over-run.” In other words, 
enough money wasn’t budgeted for re­
furbishing ofhe space that is to be used 
for the Food Court.
Hamlin said that construction would 
resume “once the budget issues were 
resolved.” Once that happens the new 
expected date of the opening is some­
time near the start of the Spring Semes­
ter.Library initiates new return policy
The polices of taking books out at 
Hunt Library have gone through a 
change Monday due to demand by the 
student body.
After consultation with the Faculty 
Senate Library Advisory Committee, the 
Faculty Senate, and the Student Sen­
ate, it was decided that the policy had to 
change to benefit undergraduates and 
graduates more.
The change in policy was one of the 
recommendations adopted by the Com­
mission on Undergraduate Education.
Starting on Monday, undergraduates 
will now be able to take books out for 30 
days and graduate students for 60 days.
Faculty members, however, will suffer 
and decrease in the amount of days they 
can keep a book out; from 180 days to 90.
If books are not returned on time, the 
library will freeze that student’s privi­
lege.
There will be a grace period insti­
tuted so students will not have to pay a 
fine if a book is a day late.
There will also be a limit placed on the 
number of items students can take out 
as well as a new fine given if periodicals 
are not returned.
Other changes are listed in areas of 
blocking borrowing privileges and re­
calls, and renewals. These changes will 
take effect Monday and will be strongly 
enforced.Mehrabian tears ligament in knee
Robert Mehrabian, President of the 
University, has been sighted sporting a 
new pair of crutches. The reason for the 
crutches is a torn anterior cruciate in his 
leg.
According to Robyn Choi, Assistant to 
the President, he sustained the injury a 
few months ago while playing soccer 
with students.
Doctors had to take out eight centi­
meters of bone and ligament from his leg 
and reposition it throughout the knee.
Mehrabian will be on crutches for five 
to six weeks. Choi says his spirits are up, 
but he is still in pain.
The President is finding it difficult 
keeping up with his schedule because of 
the crutches. According to Choi he still is 
in a lot of pain.
tgu,sry
Four-Day Outlook
'us9u,sry tSgi,sry aiIsry
A chance of showers with 
the low between 40 and 
45. The high will be In the 
50's.
Cool and fair with the lows Warmerthan Wednesday. Mostly cloudy with a 
to be in the 30's. The There still will be a chance chance of showers. The 
high will be in the high ofshowerslatelntheday lows will be In the high 
40’s to low 50’s. with the lows in the 30’s. 30's to low 40's.
EX LIBRIS A GOOD BOOK IS A GOOD FRIEND
Carnegie Mellon University Libraries
ANNUAL
BOOK SALE
EX ¡LIBEIS
HUNT LIBRARY 
I a.m. to 6 p.m. daily
Reserve Room, 1st Floor 
November 7 & 8 pm 1994
sisan :aNaiid aooo v si »joa aooo vsinn X3
Lewis' Hair
Shadyside
Tanning • Nails • Waxing • Facials 
We Carry
Aveda ? Paul Mitchell ? Matrix » New us 
Sebastian • Tri ? Red kin • Gold well 
Image • Sukesha * OPi * Sktncare • Makeup 
Open Seven Days a Week anti Most Evenings 
813 Soul h Aiken 
682 - 4063 
Save $4.00 on Haircuts 
9 am to 2 pm Monday thru Friday 
(with select stylist)
MfclP Sid %u
eT ip <43©e%e?
Did you mis5 the 59a7 or what? I mean, the 59a7 - and Monongahela Incline 
can get you all over Allegheny County! So, for the 5Cai way to get to 
college (and back), call PAT at 442-2000.
Please mail request for more information to 
Marketing Department, PAT, 2235 Beaver Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15233
CITY
REQUEST:
The Best Way All Around!
WHERE PIP YOU SEE THIS AD?
F .0m4m Vr 0* »•*d *VPc
WFD LIKE TOMEET
LV• 0b .mN*Vb?^
wma
INFORMATION 
SESSION 
Student Center, Room 207 
Sunday, Nov. 13 
7:30pm-9:00pm
ON-CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS 
Monday, Nov. 14 
Sign-up
Banyan, a recognized leader in the enterprise-wide distributed computing software industry, is 
coming to campus in search of the next generation of software developers. We’re tapped 
into one of the fastest growing segments in the industry: Enterprise Networking Services for 
UNIX-based operating systems. Come find out about our entrepreneurial environment for 
yourself — we’re completely open to your ideas and ready to reward innovative thinking!SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATE SOFTWARE ENGINEERS
You’ll create, modify, maintain and test software 
components, as well as design/implement 
enhancements using the latest 
PC/Workstation technology. You 
should have strong C program­
ming skills, an understanding of 
standard operating and net­
working distributed systems, and 
knowledge of software engi­
neering practices. While expo- |
sure to these technology areas 0
is important, intelligence, theMiiBANYAN'
drive to succeed and a demonstrated track record 
of academic achievement are equally important.
Banyan offers a highly compet­
itive compensation package. If 
you’re unable lo see us on 
campus, please send your 
resume to: Banyan Systems, 
Human Resources, Dept. CR, 14 
Walkup Drive, Westboro, MA 
01581. An equal opportunity 
employer.\tt

---------------------------------------------------

Sunday, Nov. 13th 7:00 PM Ballroom - Wm Pitt Union - Univ. of Pittsburgh
An African American Jewish Woman - New York Freelance Writer
Taste it...
Israel FestivalWednesday, Nov 16th 7:30 PM Carnegie Mellon University - Drill Deck - Interim Student Center
Enjoy the sounds, the taste, the culture of life in Israel!
FEEL IT . . .
Hanukkah BlastDancing, D.J., Drlnk ... Stay Tuned for more information
Brought to you by the Students of the Jewish University Center:
Israeli Affairs CommitteeSocial CommitteeKoach on Campus
Jewish Community Relations CouncilFriday FriendsCampus UJA
AIPACSHOAHCommunity Svc Committee
Hear it...
Jeannine Amber
0gCsyT *sT
Jewish University Center
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 19945
fsOCg lscc urrn'Ca IsT 
gC'CnwC ,C1 u''9es,ia
ROVING, from page 1
perceived as mainstream campus,” 
more accessible. The Center for the 
Advancement of Applied Ethics 
(CAAE), a branch of the Philosophy 
Department, will be relocating their 
offices from Hamburg Hall to the space 
in Baker Hall that used to house the 
Post Office. Preston Covey, the Direc­
tor of the CAAE, said, “to minimize 
disruption of operation/services, the 
move will hopefully occur during a 
break.” Covey said the physical mov­
ing of the office should only take about 
two days, but “getting fully organized 
at the other end is more indetermi­
nate.”
The CAAE will also have to shut 
down operation in order to accommo­
date a move. “The hope is that the 
actual physical move from Hamburg 
Hall to Baker can be planned ahead in 
order to transpire with only a couple 
days disruption in telephone and com­
puter network connectivity. That’s the 
theory,” said Covey. Whereas IT plans 
on having more space in their new 
facility, the CAAE will not suffer a 
gain or loss in space. The CAAE has 
six permanent staff plus a small lab 
space for student interns and associ­
ates; Covey saiditis “averaging out to 
about 150 square feet per permanent 
person.”
However, the CAAE finds its move 
advantageous. The faculty and staff 
are members of the Philosophy De­
partment, and moving their facilities
to the H&SS home base is, according 
to Covey, “a big plus. Serendipitous 
meetings fuel good collegial relations; 
such things don’t happen when you’re 
a quarter mile away from everyone 
else in your department/college.” 
Covey also noted the advantages for 
the faculty, who willnowbecome closer 
to classrooms which will be more ac­
cessible to students.
The space previously occupied by 
Campus Police across from the old 
Post Office will become offices for sev­
eral H&SS departments. Four offices 
will be used by the Modern Languages 
Department, one by the Philosophy 
department, and the two front offices 
by the Psychology department. Psy­
chology plans to use their space for 
research projects. One of the projects 
concerns handicapped subjects and 
offices located on the first floor would 
be more accessible. In planning the 
date of the completion of both moves, 
Susan Kinehelow, the Assistant Dean 
of H&SS. said, “to be realistic, we 
need to say the week of -January 9.” So 
far, Kinehelow plans to meet that 
deadline since “contractors haven’t 
had a problem so far and the time­
table is still good.”
This is the first in a series of moves 
that will help repair some overcrowd­
ing in H&SS departments.
When the University Center is com­
pleted, the University Shoppe will 
move and the space will be given to 
H&SS as well.
Dante robot exhibition opens
By MICHAEL AYOOB
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s Dante II ro­
bot is now on public display at the 
Carnegie Science Center. The 
Dante exhibit confirms a 
newfound alliance between 
CMITs science departments and 
the Science Center, which are 
planning future projects together.
Representatives of the Science 
Center express an educationally- 
centered goal with such collabo­
rations. Dan Verakis, a media re­
lations associate for the Center, 
says that the Center would like 
“to be able to present the research 
that [the Dante team] accom­
plished to the public in a manner 
that’s understandable and educa­
tional at the same time.”
On a similar note, the Center 
understands that many people in 
the Pittsburgh area are unaware 
of the impressive scientific devel­
opments happening in their own 
backyard. Therefore, Dante will 
also provide an opportunity to in­
form Pittsburgh of the discover­
ies being made by its local scien­
tific community. The Center’s director, 
Seddon Bennington, said in a Science 
Center press release, “We are very 
pleased to showcase the technological 
advancements made here in Pittsburgh 
by sharing a cutting-edge development 
like Dante with the people of the region.”
The Dante exhibit is what Verakis 
calls “a nice first step for us,” meaning 
that future collaborations between the
Courtesy of The Carnegie Science Center
The Dante robot is now on display at the Carnegie 
Science Center. The robot was constructed to venture 
down a volcano to simulate lunar exploration.
Center and CMU are upcoming. The 
Robotics Institute is working with the 
Center to develop an interactive exhibit 
on robot vision systems as well as an 
exhibit featuring the Terregator, the 
autonomous mobile robot.
CMU’s Center for Light Microscope 
Imaging and Biotechnology, the Studio 
for Creative Inquiry, and the depart­
ments of Biology and Computer Science
are also working with the Cen­
ter on an innovative plan­
etarium show, “Journey to the 
Center of the Cell.” Rather than 
the traditional show which con­
cerns outer space, “Journey” will 
take its viewers into the world 
of the human cell via virtual 
reality technology. The project 
has received the largest grant 
ever from the National Science 
Foundation, at $600,000. The 
NASA-sponsored Dante robot 
achieved international fame 
this summer when it explored 
volcanic Mount Spurr near An­
chorage, Alaska. Headed by 
CMU alumni John Bares, 
project manager, and William 
L. Whittaker, principal research 
scientist, the mission achieved 
all of its objectives despite a few 
setbacks and negative public­
ity.
Dante was successful in au­
tonomously maneuvering in the 
crater as well as gathering and 
processing information it found 
within the volcano, taking and 
relaying gas samples from an 
environment far too perilous for 
humans to enter.
NASA was especially excited, as it is 
interested in using such technology for 
planetary exploration.
The exhibit at the Carnegie Science 
Center contains an eight minute video of 
highlights from the summer mission. 
The display is in the Center’s Atrium 
Galley. The removal of the Dante ex­
hibit has not yet been planned.
Crime and Incident Report
10/12 SPECIAL OPERA­
TIONS ASSIST, 11:29pm. An 
employee of Highlander Cafe 
called the campus police on be­
half of another worker who chased 
a large snake into the elevator. 
The worker said that as he was 
sweeping the second floor dining 
room, he saw a five foot snake 
near the elevator. He poked it 
with his broom handle and it went 
into the elevator, where the snake 
made its way under the elevator 
andwrappeditselfto afloor beam. 
City Police Special Operations 
were called to catch the snake, 
and it was removed from the el­
evator car. The snake was tenta­
tively identified as a baby boa 
constrictor.
10/24 DAMAGED DOOR,
4:47 pm. An officer was dis­
patched to Porter Hall, where an 
office door had apparently been 
tampered with. The wood was 
splintered along the edge; how­
ever, the integrity of the door and 
locking system were secure. It 
did not appear as if the door was 
tampered with pry tools, etc.
10/25 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 8:42 am. 
A male called the Whitfield Hall 
front desk, where he asked for an 
employee. The caller wanted to 
know what building she was 
working in and the phone num­
ber. He was told that the infor­
mation could not be given out, 
but he was transferred to the 
employee’s supervisor.
After talking to the supervisor 
the caller again asked for the 
phone number. He was told that 
it was not company policy to give 
phone numbers out.
The caller gave his name when 
asked, but when he was asked for 
bis phone number, he said. “Never 
mind, I’ll find her myself. And its 
going to be a shame if
People get hurt.” The caller then 
hung up.
Since then the caller has called 
two more times asking for the 
same person. The caller has used 
three different names. Once be­
fore, about three weeks ago, the 
same caller called twelve times 
| hi one hour.
10/25 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 4:13 pm. 
^ °fficer responded to Warner 
Wall to take a report. The persons 
j) reporting the incident said that 
j about 3:30-3:45 pm, they received 
| a call from a very upset female 
and that she wanted to advise
em of a number listed in the 
i ellow Pages under Carnegie
Mellon University.
When the victim called the 
number, the male who answered 
the phone said, “CMU, can I help 
you?” The victim said, “Yes, I 
want the number of the Com­
puter Store.”
The actor said, “Yes, I can help 
you, but first would you do some­
thing for me?” He then went on to 
say several sexual things which 
the victim would not report. The 
persons reporting the incident 
also called the number and were 
sexually harassed after asking 
for the Computer Store. Investi­
gation continues.
10/27 TRESPASS, 1:13 am. 
An officer responded to the Col­
lege of Fine Arts to issue internal 
citations to three trespassers for 
being out on a ledge forty feet 
high and one and one-half feet 
wide. A security guard told the 
officer that as he was patrolling 
the College of Fine Arts he saw 
three people on a ledge outside a 
window. When the three indi­
viduals saw him, two began to 
walk the ledge. This ledge is about 
twenty feet long and leads to a 
roof. They crossed the roof and 
made entry to the building on the 
south end at the window above 
the steps. They then returned to 
the window they had originally 
exited. Internal citations were 
issued for trespass and endan- 
germent.
10/27 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 1:16 am. A security 
guard between Morewood Gar­
dens andMudge reported that he 
heard a loud crashing sound he 
believed to be coming from the 
fraternity area. The guard said 
he saw two males running 
through the fraternity mall area 
toward Morewood Avenue. Three 
officers responded to the area. 
The officers were informed that 
someone had thrown a brick 
through the kitchen of a frater­
nity house.
One of the males who was seen 
running was apprehended, but 
was let go since nobody saw him 
break the window.
10/28 MEDICAL, 10:50 am. 
An officer took a report from a 
conplainant, who stated that 
while he was working on the back 
of his work truck in the rear of 
Porter Hall he slipped in some
oil, losing his balance, and in­
jured his left shoulder and arm. 
The EMS arrived to evaluate the 
victim’s injury and recommended 
the victim be taken to Presbyte­
rian hospital.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
MAX CHITTISTER & 
HEATHER ZINDLE
doiiuNnIo9,
In the article in last week’s edition entitled, “Repairs planned 
for desks,” Instructional Technology was accidently printed as 
Industrial Technology. Also, there are no retired teachers em­
ployed by the University.
In the People’s Opinion section, Luke Bennett was identified 
as Dan Stellenberg and vice-versa.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an 
error, please contact the Editor-in-Chief Andrew Sproule, atx8- 
2111, or write him in care of The Tartan.
)o•?
CARRER OPPORTUNITIES IN RISK MANAGEMENT & CREDIT POLICY
If you’re an MBA with a broad-based business perspective, make the most of your 
knowledge with a company that will give you some latitude to create your own path... 
to make your own decisions... to realize your own success.
Attend our Business Presentation and Reception to find out more about our Company 
and the career opportunités in Risk Management &. Credit Policy;
TRAVELRELATEDSERVICES
2, 2ICgn's, m\egCaa 'uIes,T 
M' sg' s, CX9sc ueeugi9,niT CIecuTCg?
DATE: October 31, 1994 
TIME: 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
PRESENTATION: Cooper Auditorium 
RECEPTION: Rachel Walton Room
Please R.S.V.l3. by signing up in the Career Opportunities Center.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
0,iCg,scn_n,v egu5cCIa 
n,'gCsaCa yCegCaanu,
Last week, Drew Ross appar­
ently lolled himself. This is sad 
and unfortunate not only be­
cause Drew’s life has ended, but 
also because he is survived by 
family and friends who are left 
wondering why.
What’s worse is that his sui­
cide was relatively, if not wholly, 
unexpected. Drew was consid­
ered to be a happy and stable 
person by those who knew him.
He showed no signs of depres­
sion. His death was a shock.
Drew Ross, according to those 
who knew him was the sort of 
person who would go that extra 
mile for those in need. He was a 
genuine and kind person who 
truly had a concern for the wel­
fare of others. He was selfless at 
times. He was a true friend.
Because of all of these reasons, 
we are saddened by his death.
We don’t know why Dr ew chos e 
to take his life. However, stu­
dents need to know that are real 
solutions to problems they may 
be facing. Suicide is not a solu­
tion.
In a high-stress, low-release 
environment such as Carnegie 
Mellon it is important for us to 
find ways in which to deal with 
our problems, and even prevent 
them from happening. If things 
get bad, take a leave of absence; 
school isn’t paramount to life. If 
schoolis causingproblems, leave 
school. Travel. Seek help from a 
professional. Consult your fam­
ily. Talk with a counselor on-
campus. We have options in our 
lives that can be overlooked in 
times of depression. There are 
many facilities designed for 
people to confront their prob­
lems. CMU has several organi­
zations which students can con­
sult free of charge. Sometimes 
just talking with someone to get 
the problem out in the open can 
be incredibly therapeutic. Fur­
ther, there are places off-cam­
pus which can address students’ 
needs. Western Psych, and St. 
Francis Hospital may provide 
more privacy for students if they 
are uncomfortable with seeing 
someone within the campus 
community.
Don’t let your problems accu­
mulate until you feel as though 
you’re living in a pressure 
cooker. Be receptive to your own 
needs and take action at the 
onslaught of emotional troubles 
— ignoring the problem and 
waiting for it to go away will 
only make matters worse.
The important point to remem­
ber is that problems need to be 
addressed in order to be solved. 
Many problems are simply too 
large for individuals to handle 
alone. Talk to a friend. Talk to 
anyone. No matter how difficult 
you may find it to confide in 
others, no matter how hard it is 
for you to express deep-seated, 
personal problems, realize that 
any problem is not worth end­
ing your life over. Find a friend, 
find help.
4u9gaC CcnIn,sinu, 
's9aCa Is,T egu5cCIa
Registering for courses can be 
a nerve wracking experience. 
Well, some academic depart­
ments have decided to give us a 
hand and discontinue courses 
that are part of a required se­
quence. In particular, the Phys­
ics, Statistics, and Modern Lan­
guages have all created similar 
problems for students.
Before this year, science stu­
dents would take three semes­
ters of physics. The department 
decided to eliminate the third 
course in this sequence, Physics 
for Science Students III - Elec­
tricity and Magnetism, without 
any warning to students af­
fected. The department thought 
that it would be best to con­
dense the three physics courses 
for science students into two 
semesters. This change poses 
no problem for freshmen, who 
will start at the beginning of 
this new sequence, or upper­
classmen who have taken all 
three physics courses already. 
This rearrangement hurts stu­
dents caught in the middle of 
the sequence. These students 
were told that they could learn 
electricity and magnetism on 
their own, since there is no 
course for it anymore, or they 
could take Physics II again be­
cause it now covers some elec­
tricity.
What really makes this situa­
tion all the more unsettling is 
the lack of action by the Physics 
Department and the deans of 
MCS after numerous complaints 
by faculty and students.
A similar problem was ere-
Letters to the EditorStudents were told of festival
on
Letter to 
the Editor
ated by the Department of Sta­
tistics when they decided to 
eliminate 36-209 and 36-210, 
Probability and Applied Statis­
tics for Management and Social 
Sciences I & II. These courses 
were the introductory stats 
courses for many IM majors. 
These statistics courses are re­
quirements to begin economet­
rics sequences in the IM depart­
ment. Without these courses, 
students had to sign up for ei­
ther Statistics for Physical Sci­
ence and Engineers or Statisti­
cal Concepts. Statistics for 
Physical Science and Engineers 
had a prerequisite that many 
IM majors in the H&SS track 
did not have so many were left 
taking Statistical Concepts. 
Some IM majors even got locked 
out of this course because it filled 
up so quickly. Others had to 
fight all summer just to get this 
required course so they could 
graduate on time. IM majors 
also have to take an additional 
coursein conjunction with these 
stats courses because the proper 
material is not covered.
This trend seems have caught 
on in the Modern Languages 
Department, also. They decided 
to eliminate an intermediate 
level French course. Students 
were told to either repeat the 
class or advance to the higher 
level course without the inter­
mediate course.
These types of problems can 
be expected at large state schools 
because their bureaucracies are 
so big, but they should not be 
found at Carnegie Mellon.
Editor:
In response to the 
recent article involv­
ing the Interna­
tional Festival [“In­
ternational festival 
presents Europe to CMU,” 10/24], and 
alsotosomeof the comments made in “A 
Person’s Opinion,” I would like to say 
that practically every student on cam­
pus had the opportunity to learn about 
the International Festival and partici­
pate in it. At the beginning of the fall 
semester, postcards were mailed out to 
every on-campus student, faculty, and 
staff member, which listed some brief 
information about the Festival. Every 
on-campus student should have also re­
ceived a key chain from Housing that 
had the Festival logo on it. Then, ap­
proximately one month ago, a highlights 
brochure was mailed out to these same 
people.
Unfortunately, the same could not be 
done for every off-campus student be­
cause the cost of the postage was too 
high. However, we had other publicity 
that was available for everyone to see.
This included 400 t-shirts, 1500 cups, 
and a few thousand buttons. These items 
could be seen frequently around cam­
pus. There were also posters listing the 
keynote lectures, the films, and the per­
sonal journeys posted on the bulletin 
boards and given to the Residence Life 
office to distribute to the RAs, in addi­
tion to general Festival posters. There 
was also an article in The Tartan, as well 
as a full-page ad. This list of publicity 
only scratches the surface.
My point is, with this amount of pub­
licity, anyone not knowing about the 
Festival either lives in a vortex or goes 
out of their way to not know what is 
going on around campus. I understand 
that many people ignored the publicity 
or weren’t interested in it, but the fact 
that some students had no idea that a 
Festival was even happening is a sad 
comment on the attitude that some stu­
dents have. Unfortunately, those stu­
dents probably miss out on a lot of events. 
I just wanted to make it clear that it was 
a top priority of the Festival committee 
to make sure that students knew what 
was going on.
Also, to comment on the fact that there 
should be more student participation in 
events, I completely agree. However, 
around 95 percent of the students who 
were asked to be a part of the Festival 
didn’t want to be. The Festival also had 
a booth at the Activities Fair and anyone 
who wanted to be a part of the Festival 
was given the opportunity to do so, in 
some form. Also, many students who’d 
been abroad, as well as many student 
organizations, were contacted.
Overall, the Festival was a great suc­
cess, with over 1000 people attending 
over the three days, as well as a few 
hundred people participating in the pre­
view events. Itisunfortunatethatmany 
students miss out on events that were as 
interesting and enjoyable as the ones at 
the International Festival because they 
are too apathetic to see what is going on.
Jill Goodall 
Junior, Psychology 
Student Coordinator of the Inter­
national Festival
Writer's ideas seem to conflict
Letter to the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
After such an anti- 
pro-life attitude in 
an earlier column 
[“Simplicity exists 
only in naive minds,”
10/3], I was very surprised to see Matt 
Ball’s latest column [“Our rights end 
where others’ rights begin,” 10/24]. In 
this title he seems to have summed up 
the right-to-life position that he was 
criticizing. This new column, of course, 
was about second-hand smoke. But the 
concept is the same.
I believe very strongly in a woman’s 
right to choose. I believe that it should 
be a woman’s decision whether or not to 
bring a child into this world. But there is 
a point where the right-to-life of that 
child outweighs the choice of the mother. 
Ball warns us about seeing things in 
simple “black-and-white,” but the truth 
is that a child at two days inside the 
womb is the same living, human being 
as that child at two years — as geneti­
cally independent from her mother as 
we our from our mothers today. So even 
when Ball sugarcoats RU-486 and asks 
how we “naive” pro-lifers call it murder, 
I can still use his own words to defend 
myself — that our rights end where 
others’ rights begin. Since the mother 
and child are both individual, living 
human beings, there is no gray area. No 
human being’s rights are so important 
that he or she can usurp the right-to-life 
of another.
Ball is correct in his recent column: 
“Each individual is to have some funda­
mental rights and freedoms that cannot 
be infringed on by others, even if pro­
tecting the rights of the weaker tends to 
infringe on the ‘rights’ of others.” With a 
little rewriting, this could be an impres­
sive right-to-life essay.
John K. Addis
Member, Association for LifeRA proved his case in lawsuit
onLetter to tho Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Mooney was fired for beliefs, not for 
actions — he never went around and 
harassed homosexuals on campus. So 
Gobioff is completely off base when he 
suggests that CMU was in the right ii 
firing Mooney, as his abilities were never 
really called into question.
The best part of the settling whole 
situation is that CMU has changed its 
RA training so that people are no Ion 
forced into situations they cannot do 
based on their religion, such as a Catho­
lic wearing a pin saying “I support ho­
mosexuals.” Further, CMU has changed 
its RA retention policies, so that 97 per­
cent of non-senior year RAs are no longer 
retained. It was this figure of almost 
non-existent termination that Mr, 
Mooney used in court to argue his point,
Finally, Gobioff has a strange idea 
that the so-called rights of society are 
above Mooney’s rights to practice his 
religion in peace. Apparently, the first 
amendment to the US Constitution, 
which is repeated in thought in the Penn­
sylvania State Constitution as well, es­
caped Gobioff in Civics class. If the Uni­
versity claims to be non-discriminatory, 
but then forces trivial and irrelevant 
things which some people find immoral 
and against their religion, such as hand­
ing out condoms at Orientation, or forc­
ing RA trainees to wear offensive pins, 
then they are not living up to their own 
policy, and are asking for lawsuits.
Andrew Byler 
Junior, Civil EngineeringCMU’s recycling efforts pay off
On
Letter to the Editor
Editor:
In his recent let­
ter, PhD student 
Howard Gobioff ex­
presses dismay that 
CMU would settle 
with Patrick Mooney, who was suing 
over wrongful firing from his position as 
an RA [“CMU caved in under lawsuit,” 
10/24]. Gobioff is apparently ignorant of 
much of what the case centered on, and 
much of the evidence presented.
Mooney is a good friend of mine, and I 
was fairly familiar with his case. He was 
terminated as an RA during RA training 
in his sophomore year, after he had 
already worked part of his freshman 
year as an RA. In his work as an RA, he 
received very good reviews from his resi­
dents. Gobioff claims that Mooney’s 
Catholic beliefs should exclude him from 
being an RA, because Gobioff thinks he 
would be intolerant of the presence of 
homosexuals. To the contrary, Mooney 
evidenced a fine ability to get along with 
several openly avowed homosexuals on 
both Student Senate and the Political 
Speakers Forum Board — for example, 
Michael Loomis. Gobioff forgets that
Editor:
Thank you for this 
opportunity to re­
spond to your edito­
rial [“Give more at­
tention to recycling 
on campus,” 10/3]. I cannot adequately 
explain, in such a short letter, what we 
have already accomplished at CMU with 
regards to recycling and waste reduc­
tion.
CMU has a Recycling Advisory Board 
made up of mostly staff who oversee the 
program and its progress. I would wel­
come more students to attend the advi­
sory board meetings or form a student 
committee or advisory board.
As you can see from student opinions 
there are a wide range of attitudes asso­
ciated with recycling. Questions we all 
need to ask ourselves are ... Who is 
responsible for waste generation? Who 
should pay the costs of pollution and 
waste disposal?
In 1993, we successfully recycled 17V 
tons of office paper and corrugated card­
board, 40 tons of glass, 10.5 tons of 
aluminum cans, 4 tons of scrap metal, .6 
ton of plastic, 67 tons of leaf waste, 1.5 
tons of newsprint, 3.75 tons of phone 
directories, .035 ton of polystyrene, .0475 
ton of magnetic media, and 1.98 tons of 
wood pallets. I would like to thank ev­
eryone for the work that they have put 
into the program which has allowed CMU 
to receive the Three Rivers Environ­
mental Award in 1994 for our Reduce, 
Reuse, Recycle Program.
Barbara Kviz 
Facilities Management
Environmental Services/Contract
Manager

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 19947
8gsy9sinu, rCC C\'CCya scc C\eC'isinu,a
Mahua Dutta
So, we’re seniors now. We’ve spent the 
past three years working hard on projects 
and papers, studying for killer exams, and 
giving up altogether on sleep. We’ve lost 
hair, developed ulcers, and had small 
breakdowns. We’re almost out of here. 
May 1995 is so close you can taste it.
Oh, wait a minute; there’s a small catch. 
Four to five years of putting our hearts in 
our work and about $100,000 of our money 
isn’t quite enough to graduate. We have to 
pay an additional $30 graduation fee.
The letter from the registrar’s office ex­
plains it all. They want more of our money. 
Apparently, it’s to cover the costs of the 
diploma, the cap and gown, commence­
ment, etc. By the way, you have to pay 
even if you’re not going to attend com­
mencement. And don’t think you can skip 
out on the payment.
I called the registrar’s office to ask about 
this fee. I spoke to a woman named Terri, 
who explained that they are serious about 
it. She said she has diplomas running as 
far back as 1932 that she can’t send out 
because the graduation fee wasn’t paid. As
you can see, they really mean it. On Terri’s 
behalf I’d like to add that she wasn’t your 
usual Warner Hall stickler. She was very 
understanding. In fact, most of our time on 
the phone was spent laughing about the 
issue. She, too, knows how stupid this is.
Actually, it’s more than just stupid. It 
adds insult to injury. Everyone knows 
that commencement is just a big show for 
parents; it hardly has anything to do with 
us receiving the diplomas we deserve. Most 
of the people I know don’t even want to be 
at commencement. Maybe the fee is part of 
a plot to make sure we attend — ‘They’ll 
figure that if they have to pay, they may as 
well show up so Mom can have a picture to 
show all her friends.” (And won’t Mom be 
proud to show her friends a picture of you 
getting your diploma inside a tent with a 
construction site in the background.)
Whatever the reason, it doesn’t make 
sense. We’ve given so much already. How 
can they possibly ask for more? “Tell CMU 
you just spent your last $30 on the gradu­
ation fee when their fund-raisers call for 
money,” a friend of mine told his mother. 
I don’t understand why they need more 
money. What have they done with all the 
money we’ve already given them? Where 
did my $100,000 go? Could they really not 
save $30 of it for my graduation fee?
Maybe CMU can get the money by other
means. I’m sure if they cut back on buying 
manure for the Cut there would be enough 
to cover commencement costs. What about 
that magazine that they send to parents 
every now and then? Does anyone read 
that? My mother usually flips through it, 
makes a face, and throws it out in a matter 
of minutes. If they skipped an issue of that 
glossy birdcage liner, they’d have enough
,Crt>O-0-000-00-
Gabrien Symons/ Tartan Artist 
money.
I know CMU calls up people and asks for 
money. They certainly call my house 
enough. Instead of trying to squeeze cash 
out of parents, who can barely afford tu­
ition, why don’t they try rich alumni? Ted 
Danson could cover us.
I know; it’s only $30. Most of us can 
afford it. It’s not so much the actual amount;
I’d object to paying a five dollar gradua­
tion fee. It’s the principle of it that both­
ers me and should also bother you. Think 
about it. You could be at the top of your 
class and not graduate because you didn’t 
pay the graduation fee. It’s ridiculous.
Now, Acting Registrar John Papinchak, 
who sent us the graduation fee letter, 
might argue that it’s the same as not 
getting your degree because you didn’t 
return a library book. Well, that’s actu­
ally a little different. In that case, you 
have something ofthe school’s. You should 
have to give it back in order to get your 
diploma. In the case of the graduation 
fee, you’re being forced to pay money for 
something you’ve already earned.
That’s my entire point right there — 
We’ve earned our degrees. They are right­
fully ours. Forcing a graduation fee upon 
us is the cheapest grab CMU can make at 
our wallets. Unfortunately, we can’t do a 
damn thing about it. We need our diplo­
mas too much to take a stand. So, this 
May we’ll all be in a hideous tent, a little 
bitter toward whoever hands each of us 
our $100,030 sheet of paper.
Mahua Dutta is a senior professional 
writing major who is cutting back on her 
cigarette and alcohol consumption in or­
der to afford the $30 graduation fee.
pgCC aeCC'l rs'Ca ilgCsia
“The land of the free and the 
home of the brave.”
— The Star Spangled Banner
If Francis Scott Key were here 
today, maybe he would reconsider 
the above words, for in America 
today, the freedom of the people 
to express themselves without 
fear of retribution has been taken 
away and the people’s thoughts 
are held captive tb an unwritten 
yet powerful code.
Today, a person cannot state 
an opinion without having to first 
consider if these thoughts have 
been “approved” by society. For 
example, a person who speaks 
out against affirmative ac­
tion is often viewed as a 
racist, when in fact, the 
opinion may be based on 
the fact that in the long run
affirmative action is detri- ____
mental to both the people it H 
is meant to help and to society as 
a whole. More often than not, the 
rationale behind the person’s rea­
soning is ignored, yet the conclu­
sion drawn from the rationale is 
blasted. This is not an usurpa­
tion of our freedom, but it does 
limit what we can say because to 
be labeled in our society as some­
thing such as a racist carries a 
heavy stigma that is hard to un­
load. A person may no longer be 
free to say what is on his mind 
just out of fear of what could 
happen.
Another example of this is in 
the alternative lifestyles that 
many people choose to live. It is 
all right for them to live however 
they choose, but there is no rea­
son why everyone must accept 
their behavior. If people wish to 
challenge one of the behavioral
standards that has been instilled 
into our society, they should be 
free to do so. But people who 
speak out against this challenge 
with some type ofrationale should 
not be labelled as hate-mongers, 
just as people who have a differ­
ent opinion.
Clearly what I have just stated 
can also be taken too far.There 
are certain times when people 
should have enough sense to re­
alize that what they are saying is 
inappropriate. Currently, a 
teacher in a local Pittsburgh 
school has been suspended for 
telling a racial joke to three black 
students. Clearly, this remark 
was out of line and it appears 
that she will be fired for her con­
duct. This, in my opinion, is not a 
limitation on a person’s freedom 
to speak, but on a student’s right 
to learn in a healthy environ-
tSu vuovwup, nSogcSn, riu 
Suws NrvnIlu no r9 g9CiIn1
nu9 yun voCui0gw Nosu6
ment.
The conflict between what can 
and cannot be said is ages old and 
is continually fought throughout 
our court system, but the more 
important conflict is what society 
itself deems as acceptable, and 
currently it seems that we are 
less tolerant of divergent opin­
ions. Another example of this is
from stations that do not offer 
equal time to the other side. Well, 
maybe the reason that the other 
side does not have a show has 
nothing to do with fairness in 
radio; it has to do with good busi­
ness sense. If you owned a radio 
station, would you schedule a 
show that would not attract many 
advertisers because it doesn’t at­
tract many listeners? Of course 
not. But people whose opinions 
differ from Limbaugh’s believe 
he should be silenced because it 
is not fair.
This is the type of limitation on 
freedom that should not be al­
lowed. If the talk show host is 
makingmisstatements, watchdog 
groups exist to inform the public 
of what he is doing. It is not as if 
there is no system of checks and 
balances in our society. A person 
can only go for so long making 
false statements before 
he is jumped on. To limit 
his freedom is to limit the 
ability of all Americans 
to discuss and voice their 
opinions.
BMrtlirtll Many Americans today
plead for a more “tolerant” soci­
ety, and in doing so, they say it is 
necessary that what people say 
needs to be cleansed in order to 
make it non-offensive and fair. 
This type of belief has ended up 
placing a limitation on our ability 
to voice our opinions on different 
issues, while also forcing us to 
accept codes of behavior that we
on radio talk shows. Studies of may not agree with.
talk show listeners and talk show 
hosts show that overall they are 
slightly more conservative than 
America as a whole. Many people 
complain that shows like Rush 
Limbaugh must be balanced by 
equal time because it’s not fair 
that he gets to speak for so long 
without anybody coming from 
another point of view. His oppo­
nents have proposed actual laws 
that would ban shows like his
It is time that we be allowed to 
openly discuss what we feel and 
that we be allowed to determine 
on our own what types of behav­
ior to accept. Maybe the sign I 
saw on the fifth floor of Morewood 
summed it up best: “Legalize 
Freedom.”
Ronak Singhal is a sophomore 
inECE who thinks the Smashing 
Pumpkins are great.
Suicide reeks of selfish motives
The Editor’s Notebook
Editor's Notebook presents 
the individual opinion of the 
author only, not necessarily the. 
opinions of The Tartan or ofthe 
Editorial Board.
Drew Ross is dead and it ap­
pears that he chose to kill him­
self. This saddens me so much 
that I don’t have the words to 
convey the feeling.
There was a time in my life 
— as long ago as yesterday, X 
think — that I spent my wak­
ing moments tempting death. 
There has always been a need 
on my part to push the enve­
lope and avoid the unforgiv­
able — leading a boring life. If 
I was never boring, I would 
never be alone. If one lives one’s 
life to the point of near self- 
destruction, one never worries 
about being alone. Yet loneli­
ness is always atthe periphery 
of the mind.
As it is, I’ve never worried 
about dying, While death 
doesn’t worry mej’mnowmore 
afraid of it, but not because of 
any notion of heaven or hell. 
Rather, I think of what would 
be missed if I were gone. I al­
ways thought I had to be the 
creator ofthe non-boring, non- 
lonely moments. And I don’t 
know if it’s possible to forgive 
myselfforthe egotism involved 
in that sort of thinking.
We will always have some 
effect on our destiny. Yet to 
think that we’re the only ones 
involved in what becomes of 
our lives is incredibly selfish, 
and I can’t do that anymore.
There are toomany people who 
are important in my life.
I wish I could say I’m never 
bored or lonely. I can’t. I be­
lieve people spend the majority 
of thei r lives feeling bored and 
lonely. As morose as that may 
sound, I think it’s inevitable. 
Fortunately, there is something 
that gives us the ability to rise 
above those feelings. Our in­
teraction with friends, family 
and lovers fills the gap that 
boredom and loneliness often 
leaves.
Without these people, life be­
comes unbearable. I can put as 
many drugs into my body as I 
want and that doesn’t change. 
I am indebted to those in my 
life who have accepted — and 
sometimes fought for — me as 
an integral part of their lives.
It is because I am indebted to 
them that 1 have to think about 
how I choose to live my life. I 
can’t always push the envelope 
anymore — no matter how 
bored or lonely I am. I still 
make stupid mistakes and re­
verting to old ways of living. 
I’m not sure why that is, but I 
believe it has something to do 
with immaturity. When I 
choose to live that old life, I am 
at my most selfish and imma­
ture.
Because of this, I am feeling 
something besides sadness 
about Drew — I’m over­
whelmed by anger.
The memorial for Drew, with 
standing room only, was a tes­
tament to how many people 
were involved in his life. And 
this is what angers me the most: 
Drew’s friends and family no 
longer have him to depend on 
when they’re at their loneliest.
— Andrew Sproule
A PERSON’S
OPINION
This week brings Hallow­
een, meaning that CMU will 
be even scarier than usual. 
We asked students: What 
are you doing for Hallow­
een?
Doug Clayton
Sophomore
ECE
“I’m going to the Shirley 
party.”
Brooke Blair
Junior
IM/Econ
“Party naked.”
Sumitra Sun dr am 
Junior
ChemE/Spanish
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Edith Pong
Freshman
Undecided
“I’m going trick-or-treating.” “I want to go to the haunted 
house.”
THE TARTAN
4sICvcC 6Cccu,3a *i9yC,i bC1aeseCg 
*n,'C Fh<|
Editor-m-Chlef......Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed. .Samuel Greenfield
Business Manager...........Amlt Kar
Acting News Ed.........Edward Hayes
Forum Editor...................Abby Schiff
Sports Editor.................Eric Strauss
Features Editor...........Eric Salzman
Diversions Editor....Kathy Wright
Calendar Ed...........Jonmlchael Moy
Dossier Literary Ed. Lauren Heinz 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne
Art Co-Editors...............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor....................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr..........Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr..........Angela Molloy
Systems Mgr.........Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed............Kris Hinrlchs
Asst. Sports Ed. Matthew Solitro
Asst. Features Ed.........Lesley Kay
Allie King
Asst. Div. Ed. ...Paul Tabachneck
Asst. Prod, Mgr..........Derek Wahila
Darkroom Mgr.......Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Manager. David Perry
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Ken Kraemer, Declan 
McCullagh, Andrew McDermott
Staffwriters 
Jason Andracki, David Bazelon, 
John Biggs, Max Chittlster, Carey 
Clevenger, Mahua Dutta, Chris­
tina Farrell, Shannon Glbney, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Helnleln, Vladimir 
Labelkovsky, Deena Newsom, 
Ronak Singhal, Jon Slenk, Richard 
Smolen, JamesStepanek, Bethany 
Sutton, Bill Vandermark, 
Sharmlla Venkatasubbeen, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
John Weber, Carter Yang, Heather 
Zindel
Art
Justin Carroll, Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunsklll, 
Nick Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, 
Mark Kantrowltz, Christopher 
Nelson, Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Tushar Dubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, An­
drew Flores, Janet Lee, Pat 
Prasangsit, Jason Slegendorf, 
Jackson Tam, Maria Valenti, Cheryl 
Viaud, Natalie Wochele
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Evan 
Shechter, Margaret Stallings
Production 
Kathy Liu, Jason Ma, Carrie 
McDonough, Elizabeth Neuman, 
Eric Pettus
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Lisa Kruglak, 
Ed Slavishak
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Roula Abdel-Baki, Heather 
Alexander, Michael Ayoob, Steven 
Burns, Seth A. Covitz, Adam 
Klivans, Ron Kurt!, David Osorio, 
Shantanu Rana, Emily Rosenthal, 
Daniella Topol, Maurlcio Vlves, 
Daniel Yanger
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn­
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa­
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It is printed by West­
ern Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning 
ofthe opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi­
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num­
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. TheTartan requests that letters 
be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright © 1994 by The Tartan. Tho 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE
bV(m6fmN do0NJ
?loi ca 
IUi
Vol uolmeA thByNGNEhyL
Any student who is career planning 
and job searching in the following 
industries—
manufacturing
MlOEhYNLT ayyLYANYd
American Management Systems, Inc.
Andersen Consulting
Beaconsfield Financial Services, Inc.
Bell Atlantic
cY yoL nhTgOLYy or 
yoL YLs uymALYy MLYyLB 
r­hihe pLTLBiL ,N NeANYGf
financial services 
consulting
communications
This ninth annual job fair 
will provide an environ­
ment for Carnegie Mellon 
undergraduates to interact 
and exchange information 
with companies in need 
of highly competitive busi-
ness students.
systems design & programming 
printing and publishing
Many companies look highly upon 
students who attend the. BOC because 
that shows that the student is taking 
the time and intiative to research the
company.
Vohy ,hEELYT lY woL 
bhv lg yoL .IM
The representatives will provide first 
hand knowledge about their company 
and talk with you about possible 
permanent & summer employment 
opportunities. You will also receive a 
company information book that 
includes general information about 
each company, permanent & summer 
employment, and who to contact 
within the company. Additionally, the
career center will be at this conference
to assist you in your job search.
Dick's Clothing & Sporting Goods
Hewitt Associates
Information Resources, Inc.
J.P. Morgan & Company, Inc. 
Markowitz & McNaughton, Inc.
McKinsey & Company, Inc.
OLDE Discount Stockbrokers
PPG Industries
Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett, Inc.
Scholastic Inc.
Signet Bank
Signet Credit Card Division 
Sprint/United Telephone-Eastern 
Susquehanna Investment Group
Time Customer Service, Inc.
FOR MORE 
INFORMATION
Varior usdeipe
Marylee Willard 
862-2617 or mw4s

---------------------------------------------------

Women’s soccer loses showdown, title shot
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Staffwriter
Most games are functions of the most 
minute factors: inches, weather condi­
tions, and of course, the most suscep­
tible factor—human judgement. Unfor­
tunately, the Carnegie Mellon women’s 
soccer team had to learn that the hard 
way this past weekend, in what was 
clearly the most important game in the
short four-year history of the team as a 
varsity program.
The Tartan women headed to the 
“Windy City” for a crucial game against 
the University of Chicago. If CMU could 
beat the Maroons, they would claim the 
UAA championship.
The outcome was a 2—1 loss at the 
hands of the host team, but the score 
says nothing about how game went, or 
how the season went for the Tartans.
The Tartans fell behind 15 minutes 
into the game on a tough goal. But they 
came back strong as junior midfielder 
Nicole Poisson, the team’s leading scorer, 
scored the lone Carnegie Mellon goal, 
with what was described by head coach 
Julie Shackford as a “beautiful assist” 
from senior Christina Isaly.
Things continued to fall in favor of the 
Tartans,.but 18 minutes into the second 
half came the turning point of the game.
One of the Chicago players was posi­
tioned wide in the box and was guarded 
by two Tartan players. But somewhere, 
in the midst of play, the Chicago player 
wound up falling and a penalty was 
called against the Tartans, resulting in 
a penalty shot.
When CMU coaches reviewed the vid­
eotape, it was clear that no Tartan player 
had touched the Chicago player who 
drew the penalty call. Because there is
no instant replay in college sports, the 
call held, and allowed Chicago to score 
what would be the winning goal on the 
kick.
“It was a blatent pushing foul,” ac­
cording to Poisson. “There was nothing 
blatent about it. He [the referee] really 
had no idea what he was doing out there. 
She [the Chicago player] wasn’t a major 
threat.”
Please see SOCCER, page 11
N9alCga7 yCrC,aC aiue Nu'lCaiCg y9gn,v iu9vl 1n,
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Saturday the Tartans 
went back to “down and dirty” 
football. In front of just over 1,300 
fans at Gesling Stadium the Tar­
tans defeated UAA rival Roches­
ter by a score of 27-13.
Two years ago the Rochester 
Yellowjackets upset the Tartans 
at home 16-10 and went on the 
win the UAA Conference cham­
pionship. This was the chance 
the Tartans had been waiting for 
to get even: However, it was the 
Yellowjackets who struck first. 
With just over six minutes left in 
the first quarter, Cornelius 
Johnson picked off a pass by se­
nior Chris Dee and returned the 
ball 26 yards for the score. This 
gave the Yellowjackets the early 
7-0 lead. Then after a punt by 
sophomore Frank Triggianni was 
returned to midfield, the 
Yellowjackets, on 11 plays, drove 
all the way down to the Tartan 
one yard line. On the 12th play of 
the drive, on fourth and goal from 
the one, sophomore Jarrod 
McAdoo wrapped up Merritt 
Kohn for no gain and the Tartans 
took over at the one yard line. On
Tartan drive the offense started 
to kick it in gear. The Tartans 
drove to the Rochester 20 yard 
line, thanks in part to Dee’s 21- 
yard pass to senior Matt Neiss to 
help keep the drive alive. Then 
the Tartans rushed senior Jason 
Grusky up the middle four 
straight plays and on the fourth 
play Grusky scored on a run from 
the one yard line. Sophomore 
Todd Smith’s extra point was 
blocked and the Yellowjackets 
clung to a one point lead. With 
that score, the Tartans extended
pleted passes to Neiss for 17 yards 
and freshman Rico Parrish for 18 
yards. Grusky then carried the 
ball five out of the next six plays, 
scoring from the six yard line on 
his fifth rush of the drive. This 
tied the score at 13 with about 
three and a half minutes left in 
the third quarter. Late in the 
quarter Tartan junior Robert 
Locke returned a Chris Boglev 
punt 33 yards all the way down to 
the Yellowjacket 33 yard line. 
From here Grusky rushed four 
more times and then sophomore
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan photographer 
Sophomore Buck Neel has been 
an effective reserve runningback.
the next Rochester drive, quar- 
back Steve Kenny, from the 
artan nine yard line, was inter­
cepted in the end zone by junior 
vinash Barat and the Tartans 
i»°k over at the 20 yard line. But 
plays later Dee was picked 
° “y Chubasco Spivey to end a 
artan drive. Then on the next
Ddasom crucjonci/ laiicaii pnuiugi api LeL
The CMU defense swamped Rochester, allowing only 211 total yards.
their scoring streak to 213 
straight games (213 games with­
out being shut out). This streak is 
currently the Division III scoring 
streak record, but UCLA still 
holds the Division I scoring streak 
record with 246 straight games 
without being held scoreless.
With just over three minutes 
left in the first half, the Tartans’ 
senior Joe Ferris picked off an­
other Kenny pass at the Carnegie 
Mellon 35 yard line and returned 
it to the 49 yard line. However, 
four plays later the Tartans 
punted and Mike LeFlore re­
turned the punt 86 yards for 
Rochester’s second touchdown. 
Junior Ray Lewis blocked 
Rochester’s extra point, and be­
fore the end of the first half, Ferris 
intercepted another throw by 
Kenny. But the Tartans could 
not take advantage of it and at 
halftime the score remained 13- 6 in favor of Rochester.
In the second half Grusky took 
over the football game. On the 
Tartans’ first drive, Dee com-
Mike Mathias scampered around 
the right end 17 yards to give the 
Tartans a seven-point lead early 
in the fourth quarter.
With the help of the running 
game and short passes, Roches­
ter drove right back down the 
field. But on third and one yard to 
go, sophomore Nathan Morgan 
stopped fullback Tim Powell for a 
two-yard loss. On the next play, 
Ferris and junior Mark 
Kasperowicz stopped Tinelle 
Walker after a short gain, and 
the Tartans took over the ball at 
their own 16 yard line. Then, the 
Tartan defense forced the 
Yellowjackets to punt a few min­
utes later, setting up Carnegie 
Mellon’s last scoring drive of the 
afternoon which started at their 
own 25 yard line. First it was 
Grusky up the middle for four 
yards, then Mathias around the 
right side for 12 yards, then 
Grusky up the middle for another 
3 yards, then Mathias around the 
right again for 17 yards, then 
Grusky again for 10 yards, and
finally Grusky got loose for 
a 29 yard gain and scored!
Down and dirty, punish­
ing football all afternoon 
had worn the Rochester 
defense down. The Tartans 
stopped the Yellowjackets 
one more time and then 
ran out the clock. The final 
score was Tartans 27,
Yellowjackets 13.
Grusky finished the 
game with 140 yards rush­
ing (a career high) and 
three touchdowns. He 
broke the record for most 
touchdowns in UAA con­
ference play in a season 
with nine so far this year.
He moved into third place 
on the Carnegie Mellon all- 
time rushing hst with 1,695 
yards, just 170 yards be­
hind the second place all- 
time leading rusher, Bob 
Gaisor. (Scott Bamyak is 
the Tartans all-time leading practice and during games.” I also 
rusher (1987-90) with 2,618 spoke with Grusky’s running 
yards). Asked about the Roches- mate, Mathias, who has been con-
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan photographer 
Senior running back Jason Grusky, taking the handoff from senior quarterback 
Chris Dee, is third on CMU’s all-time rushing list.
pleted nine of 21 passes for 117 
yards and two interceptions. 
Neiss led the receivers with 82
ter defense, Grusky said, “They sistent all year both in receiving 
were really big, but our offensive and rushing the ball. Saturday, 
line did a great job coming off the the Tartans primarily used 
ball and creating holes.” I asked Mathias to run outside when the 
him if he thought he could move Yellow-jackets were looking for 
into second on the all-time rush- Grusky up the middle. He told
ing list with two games left in the 
season. He told me that he felt 
that he had a “realistic” chance, 
but that “that’s not the most im­
portant thing” to him right now. 
Finally, he told me that the team 
had been playing better lately: 
“We’ve picked up our intensity in
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan photographer 
Sophomore punter Frank Triggiani was the victim 
of an 86-yard return for a touchdown.
me that he “got around the comer 
on them pretty well” — well 
enough to gain 64 yards and score 
a touchdown. Math-ias also told 
me his offensive theory. “If you 
control the line of scrimmage, 
you’re going to win.” Finally, he 
told me that he feels he is cur­
rently having the 
best year of his ca­
reer.
The Tartans fin­
ished with 247 
yards rushing and 
338 total yards 
while Rochester 
finished with only 211 total yards. 
Both teams also 
finished with three 
sacks and seven 
punts. Dee, with 
Mathias and 
Grusky in the 
backfield, was al­
most able to take 
the day off. He com-
yards on five catches. Cleveland 
Cooper led Rochester with 76 
yards rushing, followed by Walker 
with 58 yards. Kenny threw nine 
completions out of 18 attempts, 
but also threw three intercep­
tions. LeFlore had 47 yards on six 
receptions and an 86 yard punt 
return. Finally, don’t forget that 
the Tartan defense basically had 
a shutout because Rochester 
scored all their points on an in­
terception return and a punt re­
turn.
With this victory the Tartans 
are 5-3 overall and 2-1 in the 
UAA. At press time, Washington 
University was beating Case 
Western Reserve University, so 
the best the Tartans can do is tie 
Washington for the UAA Confer­
ence Championship if they can 
defeat Case Western Reserve in 
Cleveland on November 12.
The Tartans’ final home game 
will be at Gesling Stadium Sat­
urday when they will host Grove 
City College. Kickoff is at 1:30 
pm. Carnegie Mellon will finish 
the season on the road against 
Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity in Cleveland on November 
12; kick off will be at 1:30pm.
_______SPORTS
Playoff bound!
6C,3a au''Cg IsOCa b422 iu9g,CT
By MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
For the first time in the history of the 
program, the Carnegie Mellon men’s 
soccer team qualified for the 32-team 
NCAA Division III playoff field.
“A lot of guys have worked so hard for 
four years,” said senior Chuck Kuba. 
“[Mike] Brazinski, [Alex] Amezquita, 
[Pat] Lucignani, [Vince] Russell, [Dan] 
Warren, all their hard work did make a 
difference. I’m especially happy for 
them.”
The Tartans will play Muhlenberg 
College at Muhlenberg on Saturday at11 am. Muhlenberg is the top-ranked 
team in the Mid-Atlantic Region. If the 
Tartans win, they would play the win­
ner ofthe Elizabethtown- Johns Hopkins 
game on Sunday at noon.
The team finished up its regular sea- 
jon with an important 1-0 win at the 
University of Chicago. The lone goal was 
scored by freshman midfielder Jason
Buelow. With the win, the Tartans 
clinched second place in the UAA with a 
5-1-1 record. Washington University of 
St. Louis was the league champion with 
a near-perfect 6-0—1 mark.
“It just seems like our team was hav­
ing problems offensively,” said Brazinski. 
“The last couple of games we just haven’t 
been clicking very well. It doesn’t look 
good to have that kind of showing at the 
end of the season for the tournament.”
“After the way we played, we should 
feel lucky” to make the playoffs, Kuba 
said.
The win gave the Tartans a second 
place league finish for the second year in 
a row. Earlier in the year the Tartans 
had tied Washington in an extremely 
rainy and exciting game. However, last 
weekend’s 5-1 loss to Brandeis Univer­
sity cost CMU the UAA title. The team 
finished with a 13-3-1 record, tying the 
school record for most wins in a season.
This past Wednesday, the Tartans did 
not have much success against Bethany
College. After the tough loss at Brandeis ever, continuous traveling at the end of 
the previous Sunday, the team was hop- the season was beginning to take its toll 
ing to rebound with two big wins. How- on the Tartans as they lost 3-0.
bit,” said head 
coach Nick 
Gaudioso. “We 
had a tough game 
against Grove 
City [last week], 
and then a real 
tough one Friday 
night against 
Rochester. Then 
on Sunday, we 
were losing 2-0 [to 
Brandeis] at half- 
time, and we 
Tartan file photo thought we were 
Senior Alex Amezquita led the Tartans in scoring with 27 points, playing better, 
leading them into the NCAA Division III playoffs. Whatever they hit
was going in; whatever we hit wasn’t.
“Wednesday [against Bethany] was 
sort of the same, just sort of bad luck. 
Their first goal, sort of, was shaky. We 
pushed forward and I that’s how we gave 
up the second goal. Against good teams 
... when you’re down 2-0, you’re not 
going to get back in the game.”
‘The goal was simple — us not mark­
ing up and playing solid defense,” said 
Brazinski. “We had our chances, but we 
just couldn’t capitalize.”
The back-to-back losses to Brandeis 
and Bethany could have been a major 
setback for the Tartans in their quest for 
a national playoff berth.
Buelow’s goal drew him within one 
point ofthe team scoringlead. Amezquita 
led the team with nine goals and nine 
assists for 27 points, while Buelow fin­
ished with 12 goals and two assists for
26 points. Both players were in conten­
tion for the league scoring title.
Washington also made the playoff field, 
out of the South Central Region.

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 1994
Volleyball team finishes seventh at UAAs
By CARTER M. YANG
Tartan Staffwriter
“It was heartbreaking,” said women’s 
volleyball senior co-captain Molly 
Brennan of the Tartans’ seventh place 
finish at the UAA Championship Tour­
nament held October 28-29 at Washing­
ton University in St. Louis. “We played 
hard and with a lot of pride,” explained 
Brennan, “but ‘Lady Luck’ was just not 
with us.”
The Tartans posted a disappointing 1- 
3 record at the tournament. In pool play, 
the team lost 3-0 (15—1,15-4,15-3) to 
Washington University and 3—2 (15-3,
13-15,15-2,15-17,15-10) to Rochester 
University, and beat Chicago Univer­
sity 3-2 (15-12, 11-15, 15-13, 10-15,
15-13). And in the consolation round, bounces.”
they were defeated 3-2 (10—15,16—14, 
15-9, 11-15, 15-5) by Case Western 
Reserve University. The Tartans ended 
up in a tie with Brandeis University for 
seventh-place in the eight-team confer­
ence. Washington won 
its sixth straight cham­
pionship title.
Tartan middle-hitter 
Patty Bruno won Hon­
orable Mention All- 
UAA. “Everyone gave it 
their best shot,” she said.
“We played much better 
than we did at the Round 
Robin (The September 
24-26 UAA Round 
Robin Tournament at Emory univer­
sity). That’s just the way the ball
“If was a definite improvement over how close it was,” added co-captain 
Round Robin,” agreed senior co-captain Brennan. “They’ll be back next year with 
Carolyn Skarada. “We really gave them a vengeance.”
a run for their money this time. If we Rochester was the runner-up in the 
beat Chicago in four games instead of league, falling 3-0 to Washington in the
final game. New York 
University was third, 
Emory University was 
fourth, Case Western 
Reserve University 
was fifth, the Univer­
sity of Chicago was 
sixth, and Brandeis 
and CMU tied for sev­
enth.
The Tartans finished 
the season, Hollands’ 
second as head coach, 9-27 on the sea­
son, a record similar to last year’s mark
38n Cr, SurinOiurbI9c6666 'u vwryus 
Sris r9s CInS r won o0 viIsu, Ogn 42rsy 
2gNb' Cr, Tg,n 9on CInS g,6h
— *owwy »iu99r9
five, we would have gone on to the top 
four.”
“The standings truly do not reflect of 9-29.Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Hockey club opens season with win, draw
By ERIC APPLEWHITE
& COREY ZINN
Special to The Tartan
The Carnegie Mellon hockey 
club won its league opener against 
the Community College of Allegh­
eny County (CCAC) this Friday, 
5-2, despite an initial scare. The 
Tartans’ victory was character­
ized by good team defense, solid 
goaltending, and the offensive 
contributions of senior captain 
John Cardillo and senior wing 
Greg Jessop, who both tallied two 
goals on the night.
In the first period, both teams 
skated well and had scoring 
chances. CMU was able to come 
away with a one goal lead by 
attacking and working hard in 
front of the net when Cardillo 
took a crisp pass in front of the 
crease from junior center Roger 
Maddalena and fired a wrist shot 
past the CCAC goaltender.
CMU seemed to falter in the 
second period as CCAC rallied to 
take the lead on two consecutive 
goals. The Tartans were unable
to stop the CCAC attack or clear 
the puck from their own zone and 
gave up a goal at 12:46 of the 
period. Six minutes later, with 
Maddalena off for interference, 
CCAC scored on a power play to 
take the lead. Less than a minute 
latertheTartans answered, when 
Jessop and senior wing Dan 
Kodesh completed a classic two 
on one break as Kodesh drew the 
defender and slipped a pass to 
Jessop, who rifled a shot through 
the goalie’s five hole to tie the 
game.
CMU scored a key goal on a 
power play to go ahead again 
with 31 seconds left in the period. 
With CMU’s second line swarm­
ing around the net, senior 
defenseman P.J. Mann lunged 
for a loose rebound in front of the 
net and scored.
After the Tartans retumedfrom 
the locker room to start the third 
period, they played with renewed 
intensity and never looked back. 
Great forechecking and team de­
fense as well as several key saves 
in trafficby sophomore goalie Jon
Kliegman kept CCAC off the difference in the team’s play in 
scoreboard for the remainder of the second and third periods, 
the game. At 14:10 of the third, Kodesh said.
Jessop slipped a wrap-around “We came out flat in the second
Daryl Davis/Special to The Tartan 
Carnegie Mellon celebrates a goal against CCAC.
past CCAC’s goalie and seven period. Going into the third we 
minutes later, Cardillo scored an were able to turn it up a notch, 
unassisted goal to complete the We did a much better job of tak- 
scoring for CMU. ing the body on defense and beat-
When asked to comment on the ing them to loose pucks; that was
the difference in the game.”
Saturday night, CMU took on 
the Rockets of Slippery Eock 
University in a physical game 
that ended in a 4-4 draw. Any­
one who has ever seen Slippery 
Rock’s hockey team play before 
knew this was going to be a rough 
game. In fact, roughing was the 
call for four of the 12 penalties.
CMU opened the scoring early 
in the game with a goal by fresh­
man Scott Fitzgerald, assisted by 
Cardillo and sophomore Jim 
Buck. CMU struck again with 
nine minutes to play in the first 
on a shot by Mann, assisted by 
senior Phil Beck. By this time, 
the game was already getting very 
physical, evidenced by Cardillo’s 
dislocated shoulder with six min­
utes left in the first. He would 
return, however, just a couple of 
shifts later.
SRU got on the board soon af­
ter on an unassisted goal. CMU 
finished the scoring in the first at 
the three minute mark on a goal 
by Maddalena, assisted by Mann 
and Buck.
There were three goals in the 
second period, all by SRU. This 
period was particular rough, with 
both sides playing very phy: 
Although CMU’s defensemet 
were at a size disadvantage, the 
front two lines of sophomore Chris 
Adukaitis, Mann, grad student 
Tom Sullivan, and senior 
Echols dished out several 
checks.
All in all, CMU was outplayed 
during the period, and mosttf 
the penalties accumulated in the 
second.
With 14:06 to go in the third, 
junior Sean Odell, with some 
strong forechecking, stole the 
puckatSRUsblueline and skated 
in alone for a pretty goal, tying 
the game at four apiece, whereil 
would remain for the rest of tie 
game—despite valiant effortsbj 
both teams. Things did heatap 
again at the end, and Maddalem 
got a game misconduct with 4i 
ticks remaining.
Kliegman finished the { 
with 23 saves on 27 shots, while 
CMU managed a total of 34 shots.
CARNEGIE MELLON 
LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE
viss
The Carnegie Mellon Leadership Institute presents its Spring 
1995 Leadership Series: Visions. This series is geared towards 
developing the leadership skills of its participants through 
seminars, activities, initiatives, and simulations. During the 
semester, the group will examine leadership issues including 
communication, ethics, power, politics, motivation, teamwork, 
and conflict management.
Applications are now available at the Office of Student Affairs, Warner Hall 301. 
Information session: Wednesday, Nov. 2, 6:00pm, Room 210 Student Center.
For further information, contact Kevin Hughes, Assistant to the Dean of Student Affairs at x8-2075.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 199411
‘‘We surpassed all the goals 
we had set for ourselves,” said 
Poisson,
And although one game may
Women miss first place in UAATeam finishes third in league by one point
SOCCER, from page 9 also extended the school record success of the team be attrib-
Accordingto Shackford, “We for most shutouts in a season to utedtothesuccessofonlyafew 
jtft confident that we domi- 12 and continued their record- players, for Shackford defined 
¿ted the game, and played setting unbeaten streak to 10 this year’s team as “the total 
Tery well, but after that play, gamestbefore the Chicago game), team; no real superstars, 
the momentum shifted in. favor But one loss can take nothing 
ci Chicago:” away from the incredible achieve-
fheTartàn women had three menis the Tartans compiled this 
£ close chances near the end of season as they charge d to an evèr­
se game to tie the score, but a all record of 13-3-?-2, the best have prevented the Tartans 
tight Chicago defense held record ever posted in Carnegie from winning the UAA, they 
strong. Mellon women’s soccer history, can take pride in knowing that
[The players] felt rofebedand The team set a new school record their program has stepped into 
cheated,” Shackford saidofthe with Ì2 shutouts, led by sopho- the elite group of Division III 
post-ganiemood,"becauseitfelt more goalkeeper JillWeber. Pois- programs, and has established 
like the referee took 
the control of the 
Igame away from us.”
“Weknewwewere 
as good as anyone in: 
the league," said.
Poisson, which 
niade the loss even 
moredisappointing.
There was no 
ttoubtastowhowas 
tie superior team in 
Wednesday’s game 
against Grove City 
College, The Tar­
ano totally domi- 
ated from the 
¦egining of the 
!ame. An early goal 
by Poisson initiated: 
the slaughter. From 
then on, the Tartans 
were in complete 
control of the game.
Sophomore midfielder Alyssa son. led the year-long offensive itself as a force tobereekoned 
Newman and freshman for- charge with 13: goals, challeng- with in the ftiture. : 
wardKimliinedagavetheTar- ing for thè: league scoring title- “f have no doubt we’ll come 
tans a 3-0 lead that they car- with .12 points (13 goals, six as- back even stronger next year 
ried through to the end of the aists): arid sophomore Alyssa Shackford said.
.game. : Newman finished with a total of Poisson was more;sonfident,
The win tied the CMU record lO -goals and three assists"for 23; “We’re definitely going to win 
formostvictoriesinaseason.lt points'. But in no sense could the the UAA next year.”
iYiOtthO'.v Soutio/^vi.-r: As1:.:.
CMll’s offense constantly swarmed the Grove Cfty goal in a 3-0 win. Here Julie 
Paul (#16), Alyssa Newman (background), and Nicole Poisson (#8) attack.
ADMINISTRATION
Mike Mastroianni—IM Direc­
tor, x8-2214; Mike Grzywinski— 
Asst. IM Director, 683-2938; Jim 
Saxon — President, x2-3872; 
Matt Wilhams—Vice President, 
X2-2490; Michelle Matta — IM 
¡Secretary, X8-2053
UPCOMING DATES
Tuesday, November 1 — 4:30, 
IM Board Meeting, Gym Confer­
ence Room.
Friday, November 4 — Back­
gammon & Bridge schedules can 
be picked up in the Intramural 
Office or via e-mail on 
official.athletic-dept-news b- 
board
Tuesday, November 15—3:30, 
1M Board Meeting, Gym Confer­
ence Room.
IM News
WATER POLO
Congratulations to the 1994IM 
Champions! The Minors Cham­
pions were the Phi Kappa Theta 
Gators and the Majors Champi­
ons were the Lawn Boys. Special 
IM D epartment thanks to Joanne 
Kievan and all the lifeguards for 
their time and effort.
SOCCER
The IM Soccer season is into its 
third week of regular season play. 
Teams that have make-up games 
are reminded to check the IM 
Office for dates and times of re­
scheduled games. The 1994 Soc­
cer playoffs will begin on Sunday, 
November 13, and champions will 
be crowned on Thursday, Novem­
ber 17. Playoffs will be deter­
mined at the end of the season by
All Saints Day
A Holyday of Obligation
Tuesday, Nov. 1
Roman Catholic Masses on 
CMU Campus
12NOON& 5PM
Drill Deck, Student Center 
(Old Navy Bldg.)
• For more information,
I call The Oratory, 681-3181
due F< cnai eguwnyCa 1lu3a 
1lu ur bpS g9,,n,v 5s'Oa
?v* *'
the IM Department.
VOLLEYBALL
The 6-Person Volleyball sea­
son will begin its playoff season 
onMonday, November 14. Teams 
are reminded to check with the 
IM Dept for make-up times and 
dates.
3-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Entries for 3-Person Volleyball 
will be taken until this Thurs­
day, November 3, at 4:30. 3-Man 
games will begin on Monday, 
November 21, and run through 
the end of the semester. The sea­
son will begin as soon as the 6- 
person season is concluded.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
This week, I’m doing my best 
David Letterman impersonation 
— giving you a top 10 list of the 
best running backs currently 
playing in the NFL.
10. Chris Warren, Seahawks
Only a few years ago, as a rookie 
playing for a 2-14 team, he was 
afraid to carry the ball. Every 
carry he got crushed because the 
Seahawks had no offensive line. 
However, after paying his dues, 
he and his team have improved 
and he has become a productive 
runner.
9. Barry Foster, Steelers
He was the only running back 
not to be drafted in the first round 
and gain over 1,600 yards rush­
ing. However, his questionable 
durability, attitude, and reliabil­
ity pushes him all the way down 
to ninth.
8. Ricky Watters, 49ers
Quick, fast runner, but he 
doesn’t seem to fit real well in the 
49ers offense. I could be wrong, 
but I think he would like it better 
in an offense that runs the ball a 
lot more. And he definitely loses 
points for his mouth, which can 
do San Francisco more harm than 
good.
7. Jerome Bettis, Rams
Another stud out of Notre D ame 
(like Watters), Bettis is still too 
young to make prognosticators 
sure how he’s going to turn out, 
but thus far he has shown some 
great skills. A big, fast, punish­
ing runner, he fits very well in 
the “Ground Chuck” Knox ball 
control offense.
6. Natrone Means, Chargers
Very much like Bettis. How­
ever, the humongous Means is 
even more of a punishing run­
ning back, but possibly a bit 
slower than the Ram stalwart.
5. Marshall Faulk, Colts
This rookie sensation could be 
the next Barry Sanders. He can 
do it all — run and catch. He is 
very quick but he can also take a 
hit. The next few years will tell 
the tale for Faulk; he could very 
well be in the Hall of Fame in 
about 15 years.
4. Thurman Thomas, Bills
Thomas can run the ball or 
catch it out of the backfield and 
he is fast; however, like Foster, 
you have to question his reliabil­
ity in the big games. He has put 
some huge numbers up over the 
last few years, so he gets the 
fourth spot.
3. Marcus Allen, Chiefs
I’m a big Marcus Allen fan, and 
I feel that if he doesn’t end up in 
the Hall of Fame, it will be A1 
Davis’ fault. He would never ad­
mit that Allen was a great player 
and always tried to replace him 
with players like an over-the-hill 
Eric Dickerson or a part-time Bo 
Jackson. Allen can run up the 
middle, run outside, catch out of 
the backfield, and always finds 
the end zone. He’s getting old, 
and yielding time to rookie Greg 
Hill, but he’s got plenty left.
2. Emmitt Smith, Cowboys
Sorry, Emmitt, but you’re num­
ber two on my list. Do you think 
Smith cares though? Two rings 
and a big contract means he can 
settle for number two. And you 
know the Cowboys know how good 
he is; how about those two games 
last year when Smith held out 
and Derrick Lassie tried to carry 
the load? Enough said.
1. Barry Sanders
Sanders doesn’t run behind the 
best offensive line in the league 
and his team has never gone to a 
Super Bowl. But he’s still the 
best. He’s the quickest player in 
the league. Boom! Zig! Zag! Like 
Dennis Hopper says, “He makes 
your eyes go all squiggly like.” 
Maybe he needs a Super Bowl 
ring to win number one hands- 
down, but as far as pure runners 
go, Sanders is the man.
Top Five Picks for 
Week 10
1. Pittsburgh at Houston
The Steelers never play well in
classified
ADOPTIONJOBS
Loving Caucasian couple seeking to 
adopt infant. Call 1-800-585-8014.
Caring couple eager to provide 
newborn with lots of love, security, and 
a happy home and a great future. 
Expenses paid. Please call Carol and 
Jerry anytime. 1 -800-349-4452
poR SALE
Computers & Parts - 66Mhz 486 
VESA:425 Mb Hard Drive, 4 &8 Mb 
RAM, 1 Mb Diamond Accelerated LB 
VESA Video, 14".28dp 1024x768 Non­
interlaced monitor, mouse, 3 hrs 
training/tutorial. 2yr warranty. $1379 
&S1529. Delivery $25. 80Mhz-add 
$150. Also others, laptops, CD-ROM 
Mitsumi double speed installed $179. 
4Mb RAM $179, 540Mb WD HD $299, 
730Mb WD HD $359. Call 681-6621 
Ice Nine Computers, Oakland for 
Everything!
HOUSING
Squirrel Hill. Spacious, furnished, one- 
bedroom apartment. Next to bus. 
washer & dryer. $495/mo includes all 
utilities. 422-3812 Available December.
Sale- Bright contemporary Squirrel Hill 
townhouse on Forbes Ave, 3 bedrooms, 2 1/2 baths, patio, integral garage. 
$150,000 Call 521-8770.SERVICES
the Astrodome, but the Oilers are 
pathetic this season. This could 
be one of the last games Jack 
Pardee will coach at Houston. 
Steelers 20—10.
2. New Orleans at Minne­
sota
I haven’t had a chance to say 
anything about the Saints this 
year, so here we go: They stink! 
Okay, they don’t stink, they’re 
really, really bad. Anyway, take 
the Vikings at home. Vikings 30- 
14.
3. Indianapolis at Miami
Upset! I’m calling it. Paulk’s 
due to have another big game, 
and this time the Colts are going 
to win! Having defensive tackle 
Steve Emtman back from a leg 
injury can’t hurt the defense, ei­
ther. Colts 24-20.
4. Buffalo at N.Y. Jets
The Bills are starting to get 
their act together. Jim Kelly’s 
finding his receivers, Thomas is 
running well, and Bruce Smith is 
simply looking great. The Jets 
are in for one tough game. Bills 
28-17.
5. N.Y. Giants at Dallas 
(Monday Night)
This is the Giants’ opportunity 
to beat the best team in their 
division and get their season back 
on track. However, even with all 
the injuries to the Cowboys, the 
Giant offense is too weak to pull 
this one out (especially since 
they’re playing in Dallas). Young 
quarterback Dave Brown should 
wilt. Cowboys 28-24.
John Weber is a senior civil 
engineering major.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
Marketing Representative- Oakland 
national fast-food franchise seeks a third 
or fourth year undergrad Communica­
tions/ Marketing major to develop and 
implement sales promotion campaigns. 
Excellent resume builder-Send resumes 
to P.O. Box 19089, Pittsburgh, PA,
15213.
National Park Employment. Over 
25,000 openings! Excellent benfits & 
bonuses. For more information call: 1- 
206-545-4804 ext. N52361
Cruise Ships Now Hiring - Earn up to 
$2,000+/ month working on Cruise Ships 
or Land Tour companies. World travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) 
Seasonal and Full-Time employment 
available. No experience necessary. For 
more information call 1-206-634-0468 
ext. C52361
“Spring Break 95**
America's #1 Spring Break Company! 
Cancún, Bahamas, Daytona & Panama!
110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 
15 friends and travel free! Earn highest 
commissions! (800) 32-TRAVEL
Wanted!!! Individuals and student 
organizations to promote Spring Break 
'95. Earn substantial money and free 
trips. Call Inter-Campus programs 1-800- 
327-6013
Greencards provide permanent 
resident status. Citizens of almost all 
countries are allowed. For info & 
forms: New Era Legal Services, 20231 
Stagg St., Canoga Park, CA 91306, 
Tel: (818)-998-4425; (818) 772- 
7168, Monday-Sunday 10a.m.- 11p.m.
Flowers for birthdays, anniversaries, 
formals, platonic and more. Call 
Alex's Flowers at 687-Alex. Credit 
cards accepted.
TRAVEL
International Students: DV-1 Greencard 
program by U.S. immigration.
Travel free! Spring Break‘95! 
Guaranteed lowest prices. Jamaica, 
Cancún, Bahamas, Florida. Book early 
& save $$$! Organize group travel 
free! 1-800-426-7710
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words........$8.00 / wk
51 -100 words....$10.00 / wk
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or by 
check before the first-scheduled run 
date.
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer with a valid account number.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Student Government 
Elections
The Place The Dates The Time
In front of Doherty Hall Tuesday, November 1 9 am to 5 pm
Wednesday, November 2 11 am to 7 pm
Thursday, November 3 9 am to 5 pm
The Candidates
CIT Senators GSIA Senators H&SS Senators
6 seats available 
Siddhartha Patel 
Anne Bielke 
Anat Gal-or 
Dan Coster
3 seats available 
Michelle Valko 
Deborah Cote
4 seats available 
Kami White 
TJ Sharpe
CFA Senators
5 seats available 
Dillon Lin
Mise Senators
1 seat available
MCS Senators
2 seats available 
Lynn Babyak
Heinz Senators
2 seats available 
David A. McKnight
IM Senators
1 seat available 
Brenden O. Mielke
SCS Senators
1 seat available
Nu'O ilC 4640 (uiC
Funded by your student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

1
E
j
r TTTTITA
innnrannannnL1Y11ÌU
r
Volume 89. Issue 8The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania31 October 1994
A NnwCga pncI pCainwsc cuuOa eguInan,v
gy WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Wondering where you can get
28 different new movies in less 
than two weeks? Well, the 13th 
/Annual Three Rivers Film Festi­
val is just the answer.
This year the organizing com­
mittee has
brought among 
their selections 
two Sundance 
winners and
three Cannes se­
lections (plus 
some wicked, 
wicked films), so 
there should be 
something for 
just about any­
body.
The Festival’s 
features are clas­
sified in four cat- 
egories. First, 
there’s “World Cinema,” featur- 
ingthis year’s works such as Luna 
Park, Cronos, Atlantis and The 
Cement Garden.
Then there’s “American Mav-
things, “horrifying” student films 
and the infamous Legend of the 
Over fiend. Here are some of the 
highlights of this year’s festival:
Raining Stones
The British can make bleak 
films like they were bom to do it.
Ken Higelin (left) and Florence Darel 
romantic moment in\4 La Mode.
ericks” and “Special Premieres,” 
featuring some of the newest 
pieces in independent American 
film plus works like Michael 
Tolkin’s The New Age.
For the weird at heart, the fes­
tival has brought “Midnight Mad­
ness” featuring, among other
© October Rims
Jesus Gris unwraps a mysterious artifact as his 
granddaughter Aurora watches in Cronos.
They have practically made them 
into a genre these days, working 
from their dramatic situations a 
kind of sour-sweet humor. Rain­
ing Stones is Ken Loach’s latest 
take on the 
struggles of 
Britain’s work­
ing class.
The film con­
cerns the efforts 
of a family to 
survive through 
recession, wel­
fare, and a first 
communion. 
Ranking right 
up there with 
Mike Leigh (Na­
ked), Ken Loach 
brings out the 
basic need for survival and aspi­
ration we all have.
Cronos
Coppola, shmoppola. Cronos is 
the newest take on the vampire
myth, Mexican style. Directed by 
Guillermo Del Toro, this Cannes 
prize winner gives one of the wit­
tiest interpretations of the blood­
sucking creatures. A 20th cen­
tury antique dealer ends up with 
a device that will give him eter­
nal life, but due to misuse he also 
develops a strong taste for hemo­
globin.
Guelwaar
Ousmane Sembene has risen 
as one of the best directors in 
African cinema. Guelwaar is his 
newest film. A political satire of 
sorts, Guelwaar deals with the 
mystery of the death of a political 
activist who gets buried by mis­
take in a Muslim cemetery — 
spawning a whole series of bu­
reaucratic, familiar, and religious 
conflicts. Sembene has the abil­
ity to give a realistic, deep vision 
of modern African society bal­
ancing both criticism and affec­
tionate satire.
The New Age
Michael Tolkin’s previous work 
includes the screenplay for The 
Player. In his film The New Age, 
he takes a shot at the glamorous 
pseudo-cultural world of LA while 
his ultra-sophisto characters 
meditate on their shallowness 
and the true meaning of life. This 
biting satire is presented as one 
of the “Special Premieres” of the 
Festival.
Independent Cinema
What better place to examine 
the angst and insecurity of youth, 
the sick and twisted events of 
modern society and the latest al­
ternative fashions?
Yes, “indie” films — and this 
year’s Festival has lots of them— 
include The Lost Words. Written
by and starring CMU alumnus 
Mike Kaniecki, this film is a sort 
of cinema verite for the heartbro­
ken and a nod at how the cult of 
the image has affected us all.
The Cement Garden
This British movie was one of 
the most talked-about pieces from 
last year. Based on Ian McEwan’s 
novel, The Cement Garden tells 
the story of four children that are 
forced to mature and create their 
own morality upon the deaths of 
their parents.
This film has been acclaimed
© Arrow Releasing 
Dana Wheeler Nicholson in My 
Life’s in Turnaround.
for its portrayal of psychological 
ambiguities and its sensually 
surreal atmospheres.
There are many other features 
in the festival, includingthe Japa­
nese hardcorer-than-thou anima­
tions Legend of the Overfiend and 
Wings of Honneamise.
Also showing will be French 
gloss-meister Luc Besson’s 
Atlantis, an amazing underwa­
ter documentary and Aki 
Kaurismaki’s The Bohemian Life, 
among many others.
The films of the 3 Rivers Film 
Festival will be showing at the 
Oakland Beehive, the Rex theater 
and the Fulton Filmmakers from 
November 4 through November 
17. Check out a schedule for dates 
and times.
Ween delights
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Staffwriter
Artist: Ween
Album: Chocolate and Cheese
Suggested Tracks: Please, the whole thing is equally tortur­
ous! Just put it on shuffle for random abuse.
Once again, the Lancaster, PA group whose name literally 
means “to annoy” (which they say is actually made from “penis” 
and “wuss” put together — I don’t know, you tell me) has 
returned, this time with its fourth album, Chocolate and Cheese. 
Sporting a cover that is strangely unreminiscent of their previ­
ous humor (although I’m sure we’d all love to have that there 
belt), CaC (dedicated in loving memory to John Candy) is a
Ween has changed their look with this cover... maybe something 
to do with joining a new record label. The music, luckily, is just as 
wierd as it always was.
blend of pure annoyance and surprisingly good musicianship, 
which rings in your ears for about an hour after you’ve heard it.
Starting with the typical rocker “Take Me Away,” and ending 
with the sentimental “Don’t S**t Where You Eat” — this album 
takes us on a ride through the morose, the deadly, and the 
funny, and somehow, manages to make them crash into each 
other at the same time.
Tracks like “Spinal Meningitis (Got Me Down)” and “The HIV 
Song” (carousel music with the words “AIDS” and “HIV” ut-
Please see WEEN, page HO
Look inside ...
(if you dare)

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 1994
CMU handicap facilities prove inadequate
d9ninu, yCrgsTCy 5T 1ugO ai9yT eguvgsI
By SHARMDLA VENKATA- 
SUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
With the cost of education 
being what it is today, many 
college students attempt to al­
leviate the burden of tuition by 
seeking some sort of part-time 
employment. One type of fed­
eral financial aid offered at 
Carnegie Mellon is the work 
study program, ^a need based 
award determined by income 
and an expected family and stu­
dent contribution [to tuition],” 
said John Matsko, assistant di­
rector of financial aid on cam­
pus. “Through a process called 
“Federal Methodology”, a 
student’s eligibility for finan­
cial aid is determined, which 
includes whether or not they 
will receive federal work study,” 
he added. As a result of this 
program, certain jobs are set 
aside for those with financial 
need, restricting the number of 
jobs available to non-work 
study students.
While there is an abundance 
of jobs on campus, many stu­
dents express frustration at 
their inability to find employ­
ment because of work study.
“But this shouldn’t be a prob­
lem considering that all stu­
dents, regardless of whether 
they have work study or not, 
can seek help in job hunting at 
the Student Employment of­
fice,” said Patty Kravetz, a spe­
cialist in student employment, 
who works in the office. In fact, 
out of the fifty-seven remain­
ing on-campus jobs for this fall 
semester, thirty-seven are open 
to all students, regardless of 
financial status. A student look­
ing for work might start by read­
ing the job directory, published 
and updated by Student Em­
ployment, where available jobs 
are listed as work-study re­
quired, work study preferred, 
and open to anyone. “Even 
though this might seem limit­
ing, many of these qualifica­
tions are not absolute. If you 
have the skills, it could out­
weigh the work study require­
ment,” said Kravetz. They will 
even go so far as to setting up 
appointments for interviews 
and searching for work specific 
to student’s major.
Despite the fact the Student 
Employment works to find jobs 
for students, it is the depart- 
Please see WORK, page L4
SCsyCgalne eguvgsI yCwCcuea 'lsgs'iCg
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Hoping to develop leadership 
on Carnegie Mellon’s campus, 
three staff members, Kevin 
Hughes, Alison Riley, and 
Kimberely DiDonato, initiated 
CMlFs first Leadership Institute. 
The three founders worked with 
six students: senior John Bums, 
juniors Becca Albright, Dave 
Bauer, and Chanda Sanders, and 
sophomores Christina Rail and 
Anuj Vadya. The Leadership In­
stitute was developed because, 
“We felt we had a number of posi­
tive projects to offer the campus. 
After looking around, we felt that 
the area of leadership needed to 
be worked on. We wanted to 
develop a program that could con­
tinually be built upon each year,” 
said Kevin Hughes. He added, “I 
really feel the Leadership Insti­
tute will be a benefit to the 
Carnegie Mellon community.”
The students who designed the 
program are equally excited about 
its potential. Anuj Vadya, of the 
College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, described it as “a great 
program that emphasizes fun, 
bonding, and learning. The Insti­
tute focuses on how each of us, as 
leaders deals, with people and 
conflicts. It helps us as we work 
with people.” He looks forward to
being an active participant in the 
Institute next semester.
The program began this semes­
ter and consists of approximately 
forty students. The participants 
were chosen based on nomina­
tions from Deans and Depart­
ment Heads. A new group of stu­
dents will be selected for each 
semester.
The students meet every Mon­
day night for two hours. During 
this time, they watch a presenta­
tion on that week’s particular 
topic. The topic, as well as the
38 nSI9b In I, I•voinr9n 
no Srlu ,nio9c wursui5 
o9 Nr•vg,6 h
7-wu9r *g9oF
,SIv
manner in which it is presented, 
is different each week. Past pre­
sentations have dealt with diver­
sity, interactive communications, 
and cultural awareness. The stu­
dents also partake in small group 
activities. This enables them to 
discuss that evening’s topic and 
to develop their communication 
skills. The group discussions al­
low the students to give insight 
on the presentation. At the end of 
the weekly meeting each student
must fill out an evaluation indi­
cating the positive and negative 
points about that evening’s pre­
sentation.
The members have also at­
tended The Ligonier Camp and 
Conference Center for a one day 
leadership retreat. The retreat 
emphasized the importance of 
working together as a team. The 
day’s activities involved team­
work combined with trust. The 
participants climbed a wall by 
using each other instead of a lad­
der, and they crossed over an 
opening without fall­
ing into a hole. The 
purpose of these ac­
tivities was to em­
phasize that each 
person had to rely on 
one another in order 
for the activity to be 
completed success­
fully. The students 
involved with the Leadership In­
stitute feel that the Institute is 
extremely beneficial not only to 
those involved, but to the entire 
campus. Elena Munoz, a sopho­
more Institute member in the 
Policy and Management Depart­
ment, said, “I think it is a really 
positive thing. In the past, the 
campus hasn’t had anything that 
promotes leadership. I think it is 
important to have strong leader­
ship on campus.”
Munoz is very enthusiastic 
about the upcoming year 
what the program has to offer 
CMU’s community. She said, “1 
like it a lot because of the diver­
sity. Everyone who takes partin 
the Leadership Institute is in­
volved with something different 
on campus. It really is a strong 
representation of the people 
campus.”
Shannon Lemrow, a chemistry 
major, feels the program is an 
intriguing learning experience. 
“Few programs cause you to think 
about issues in society. This pro­
gram does. The emphasis is not 
just social, but it’s personal as 
well. I think it is important to 
leam how to work with and help 
people,” she said.
Despite its early success, the 
Leadership Institute is still in its 
experimental stage. “This semes­
ter is critical. Right now, we are 
better defining how we do things. 
People are getting a lot out of the 
program and we are hoping that 
it can be offered to a greater num­
ber of students. We are laying 
down the foundation for the fu­
ture,” Hughes said.
He looks forward to seeingwhat 
the future holds for the program. 
With time, he hopes the program 
will take on leadership labs, re­
treats, and other leadership ac­
tivities.
RESUME DROP DATE 
November 7th
Sip nel Bank Card is an equal opporiunlly employer.and ery. Signet promotes a drU|H
College Recruiting-CL 
Signet Bank Card, Attn: 12061-0430 
P.O. Box 85525, Richmond, VA 23285-5525 
1-800-RECRUITSIG\ET
BANKCARD
LEGISLATIVE INTERNSHIPS
Learn firsthand the challenges and rewards of 
public life!
The Pittsburgh Foundation, through the James G. Fulton Legis­
lative Internship program, is providing an opportunity for stu­
dents to work in a legislative office in Washington, D.C. or Harris­
burg for eight weeks in 1995. Each intern will receive a stipend of 
$2,000.
Applicants must be college students who are residents of Allegheny 
County in Pennsylvania or adjacent counties. Students of all 
majors are welcome to apply.
If you are interested, contact Beth Metzler at 391-5122 at the 
Pittsburgh foundation for details and application forms. Com­
pleted applications, together with an essay, letter of reference and 
transcripts must be received by the Foundation no later than No­
vember 14, 1994.
By WINTER MASON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon claims to have a campus that is 
accessible to all students. But have you ever won­
dered whether the ramps in the buildings are good 
enough, whether those confined to a wheelchair 
can get around as well as the students who can 
walk? I decided to find out.
I started my day out in a wheel­
chair. I left from Health Services 
in Morewood Gardens and started 
to wheel my way to class in Wean 
Hall. While making my way to the 
crosswalk across Forbes, I ran 
into my first problem of the day, 
only a few minutes after I began.
There was a small bulldozer block­
ing my path to the street. Unless 
I wanted to traverse completely 
around Morewood, which could 
possibly make me late for class, I 
had to go around on the grass, 
which the wheelchair was not built 
for. Once across the street, I had a 
small difficulty getting onto the 
sidewalk, but I figured with prac­
tice that could be easier.
at all. The ramps next to the stairs are much too 
steep, and I had serious difficulties controlling the 
wheelchair while going down them. Wean Hall was 
fairly easy to navigate, and the elevators in it are 
large and can easily fit a wheelchair. The elevator 
in Doherty, however, is very small and difficult to 
get into. The doors do not stay open long enough. 
While trying to navigate into the small elevator, 
the door kept shutting on me, only complicating
Jackson Tam/Tartan Photographer 
Ramps are one of the features on campus that afd handicap accessibility.
Wheeling up the Cut was fairly easy. There were 
a couple of potholes, but they could be avoided. The 
next path I had to take was along the sidewalk that 
mns next to Doherty Hall, down towards Wean. 
This sidewalk is not designed for wheelchair access
the process more and making me take longer. 
Aside from that, Doherty is one of the easier Halls 
to get around in. The easiest place to get into and 
around in is Baker/Porter Hall. There are wheel­
chair ramps at almost every exit, the hall is easy to
navigate in, and in general is handi­
cap-friendly. The most difficult place 
to get into is Hamerschlag Hall. In 
order to get into Hamerschlag Hall 
you have to go around at least one 
building - (the easiest way is through 
Baker), down to Scaife, into Hamer­
schlag, and then from there to wher­
ever you are going.
The sidewalk down to 
Scaife is fairly steep, 
and difficult to go up 
and down. There is a 
way through Wean, but 
I could not find it. Hunt 
Library is also easy to 
get around in, and the 
best choices for a cluster for a handi­
capped person would be Hunt or 
Baker.
CFA is very difficult to get around 
in. The ramps in CFA are shaky, 
they’re difficult to get onto and off of, 
and seem as though they just barely 
support you. There is only one work­
ing elevator, and it, too, is difficult to 
enter and exit.
The largest difficulty with wheel­
chair access at CMU is in the dormitories. There is 
no way to get into rooms at Hamerschlag, Boss/ 
McGill, Donner, or Mudge. The only rooms you can 
get into in Morewood Gardens is in E-tower, but in 
that case you would not be able to get to the
Jackson Tam/Tartan Photograph 
Steps often prove to be one of the biggest obstacles for handicapp^ 
students.
mailboxes. As a
impossible to visit many other freshmen. As 
dining areas, both Morewood Gardens and 
lander Café are fairly easy to get food and 
ver around in. The same goes for the food 
Wean.
Overall, getting around the CMU campus 
too difficult. The most problematic is that the 
dormitories are so inaccessible. Outside of that and 
a few other problems, I would say CMU’s 
is pretty well off. This is not to say that it 
need work.
There are still bathrooms without handicapped 
seating. However, with a small make over (and 
large one for the dormitories), the CMU campus 
could be proud of its handicapped access.
/

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 1994L3
Vending machines aid condom availability
Uy ERIC oiatmid
Tartan Features Editor &
ANGELA MOLLOY
fartan Personnel Manager
It’s about three o’ clock in the morn­
ing. Your date’s looking good and you’re
eryone in the hall is asleep and running 
down to the nearest drugstore is not 
exactly what you were looking forward 
to doing on a cold night at three in the 
morning. Well, don’t worry.
If you live in Morewood, West Wing, 
or Donner, now you can replenish your 
feeling a little anxious. The room is dark condom supply without even leaving the 
as the two of you sit together on the bed. building. In Donner Hall, for example, 
Quickly, you have all of the appropriate with a dollar and thirty-five cents you 
conversations and sign all of the neces- can nm down to the basement to get a 
sary release papers. With this nineties condom and some M&M’s (that’s assum- 
sense of foreplay out of the way, the two ing the M&M’s still cost 60 cents). On 
of you are prepared to embark on the one the wall right next to the coke machine 
event that even CMU students will leave rests a new vending machine, only no
the computer cluster for: sex.
In spite of all the trust you have for 
each other, one of the clauses of the 
contract you signed is to use protection. 
You try to be slick, not wanting to break 
the mood and actually get up, so you just 
slide your hand around that secret little
candy is coming out of this one. Instead, 
this vending machine, like the two in the 
common area bathrooms of West Wing 
and Morewood, and in the E tower hall­
way leading to health services, offers 
condoms for 75 cents a piece.
Condom vending machines around
place where you keep the condoms. Your campus are a result of action by health 
hand fails to fall upon one immediately services. “In my opinion,” said Anita
so you continue 
the groping 
search. Things 
begin to fall over 
as the radius of 
the area1 your 
hand is sweep­
ing grows. You 
begin to grow 
frantic and soon 
breaking the 
mood no longer 
matters.
You jump up,
throw on the Maria Valenti/Tartan Photographer
lights, and delve Condom vending machines like this one are now 
into every cor- in s,x P,aces around campus.
Barkin, direc­
tor of health 
services, “mak­
ing condoms 
available is not 
promoting 
sexual activity. 
If a person de­
cides to be 
sexually ac­
tive, then we 
want them to 
practice safer 
sex.”
Health ser­
vices charges a 
dollar for four
ner of the room. Eventually it occurs to 
you that while you thought you had a 
plentiful stock readily available, your 
roommate must have used the very last 
condom. You look at your date who is 
obviously in no mood to wait. Still, ev-
condoms and offers a number of differ­
ent colors and kinds like rough riders 
and magnums. Recently though, the 
vending machines around campus have 
been spreading. The machine outside of 
health services has been there for six
years. According to Barkin, “It’s uti­
lized. We refill it once a month.” The 
machines in Morewood and West Wing 
have been there for two years and the 
one in Donner was just put up in the past 
two months.
According to Tim Foster, director of 
residence life, a couple of members of 
student senate began to push for the 
expansion of condom machines last year. 
At this point the one in the men’s room 
of Morewood had been vandalized and 
ripped down. Foster “decided that this 
would be the perfect kind of thing for 
SDC to get involved in.”
“SDC became the champion of the 
cause,” Foster said. The members de­
cided that condoms vending machines 
should be made more available on cam­
pus, especially on the hill where the 
nearest available resource was the Co­
op. Foster said the installation of the 
machine in Donner and replacing the 
missing one in Morewood was a group 
effort of a few different organizations. 
SDC decided where to put the machines, 
an outside source provided them, and 
housing volunteered to install them.
According to Foster, if the machines 
prove to be a success, a few more may 
soon be seen around campus. He sug­
gested that Mudge was one of the top 
places under consideration for the next 
installation.
Of course, that is only if the machines 
work out. As Barkin pointed out, if they 
are vandalized or stolen, they will be 
removed by the outside vendor who is 
supplying them.
Students, so far,- have given a gener­
ally, though not exclusively, positive 
response to the machines. “I think it’s a 
good idea. It will help students here 
practice safer sex,” said Rachel Hauser, 
a freshman Biology major.
“It’s an idea whose time has come,” 
said junior English major Dan Zabell. “I
only hope people are making good use of 
it.”
Referring to the machine in Donner 
Hall, some students expressed a dissat­
isfaction with location, “having it out by 
the ping-pong table seems inappropri­
ate. They should put it in the bathroom,” 
said Sherry Eckert, a sophomore CivE 
major.
“It’s not exactly in the most private 
place,” said sophomore ECE major, John 
Faistl.
“I wish it had a decent brand of condoms 
in it,” said David Donly, sophomore ECE 
major.
Of course, if students are unsatisfied 
with the kind of condom they get out the 
vending machine, they can always go to 
Entropy, Co-op, or health services.
Some students may be wary of using a 
birth control device they get out of a 
vending machine; however, according to 
Barkin, they needn’t be. “Expiration 
dates on spermicide is approximately 
two years. I can’t imagine these condoms
© Charles Papvoine 1987/'concept’ 
will sit in the machines for two years,” 
she said. She also said that all of the 
condoms have individual expiration 
dates printed on their wrapping. Of 
course, Barkin said that using a two 
year old condom is not the best of ideas, 
but she wanted to get across that the 
ones in the machines should be safe.
For those who feel that by offering 
only condoms and no female devices 
around campus proves the university 
sexist, there are other options within 
health services. Health services fits for 
diaphragms, provides birth control pills, 
and offers depo Provera, an injection 
that works in way similar to the birth 
control pill.
Like Barkin said, health services is 
not trying to promote sex, only that 
those who are going to have sex, should 
do it safely.
So, feel free to wear those “Sex kills, go 
to CMU and live forever” T-shirts, but 
keep in mind that those machines do 
empty out.
Robotics student turns parking chair into robot
By ALLIE KING v
Tartan Assist. Features Ed.
Last year, at the end of a miser­
able, snow-laden winter, the 
Dormont Police Department had 
to terminate a rather peculiar, 
yet time-honored tradition. The 
situation was one of conflict, the 
cause; parking chairs.
Awhile ago, residents of Pitts­
burgh took up the practice of leav­
ing chairs in their hard-earned, 
shoveled-out parking places so 
that nobody would come along 
and steal their place. It got to the 
point, however, where local po­
lice were being called to break up 
fights over whose parking place 
was whose, and so on. The result 
of all this havoc was the banning 
of the parking chair tradition, 
and the confiscation of some 200 
chairs.
The multitudinous amount of 
chairs, useless to the police de­
partment, were eventually do­
nated to the Pittsburgh New 
Works Festival, an affiliation of 
the Pennsylvania Theater. The 
New Works Festival took this 
donation as a fund-raising oppor­
tunity, and created the “Great 
Pittsburgh Parking Chair Auc­
tion” of October, 1994. The auc­
tion entailed having local artists 
and celebrities create valuables 
out of the chairs, for which some­
body might pay a substantial 
amount of money.
Wes Huang, a student in the 
Robotics department, heard 
about the auction when he re­
ceived e-mail, asking if anyone 
was interested in building a park- 
ing-chair robot.
He accepted the challenge to 
create what Huang referred to as 
an “animated chair.”
A few people got together to 
discuss the idea in August. There 
were people there who had obvi­
ously, according to Huang, had 
their spaces stolen before. “They 
wanted a chair that would crack 
windshields and throw things at 
anyone who tried to steal your 
space,” he said.
It was Huang, and two other 
students from his department, 
Rich Voyles and Brad Nelson, 
who ended up working on the 
robot.
They met in August to begin 
brainstorming about how exactly 
to transform an ordinary chair 
into a robot.
They decided on a basic theme, 
which was based on the auction’s 
early publicity as a “Parking
Chair Remover. ” Their robot, they 
decided, would be a working “au­
tomatic chair remover,” designed 
to help deal with the annoying 
job of removing the parking 
chairs.
They met about three different 
times before settling on prelimi­
nary designs, and when they fi­
nally built the robot, it took them 
only three days.
The robot is the ideal of what 
Huang, Voyles, and Nelson 
thought it should be. “It looks 
like an ordinary chair,” Huang 
said, “but it walksl”
Indeed, the chair does appear 
as it originally was handed to 
them. Except for a few small re­
moved sections, the pseudo-an­
tique chair is still fully intact. 
Under the seat are batteries, a 
motor and what would seem to a 
robotically-challenged person to 
be just a colorful splash of wires.
There is a light sensor on the 
seat of the chair, so if anyone 
tries to sit down the alarm sys­
tem will be activated, and the 
chair will bleep, curse, and flash 
little red lights at them, then 
kick into reverse, and leave them 
somewhat baffled on the floor. 
Another thing that cannot go 
unmentioned is the remote con­
trol. “It is,” Huang said, “an infra­
red remote.” It is also, however, 
made out of an ice scraper.
The “parking chair robot” 
(Huang said it does not have a 
name) can go both forwards and 
in reverse.
The front two legs “walk”, while 
the back two legs sport small, 
black wheels.
“There are still some quirks,” 
Huang said. “It sort of ambles.” 
As the robot awkwardly walked 
backwards through his office, a 
couple of passersbys, stopped to 
watch.
“And you never know which 
way it will go.” But it goes.
The chair was entered in the 
“Great Pittsburgh Parking Chair 
Auction,” which was held on Sat­
urday, October 22.
The auction was, according to 
Huang quite successful; he saw 
the chair that he, Volyes, and 
Nelson had brought to life from 
its cold days as a parking lot 
ornament, sold for future place­
ment in someone’s dining room, 
all proceeds benefiting the New 
Works Festival.
“We were thinking of getting a 
patent,” Huang said jokingly, 
“and when we produced it, we 
would put a plow in the front....”
Maria Valenti/Tartan Photographer 
Wes Huang crouches by his chair which, at the moment, stays still.
FUTURE SOUNDS
Import and Domestic 
v CD's & Vinyl for less!
specializing in:dance, techno, progressive house, m-nrg, trance, ambient, industrial, “ 80's retro
2141 Ardmore Boulevard 
Suite 2. Second Floor 
Pittsburgh, PA 15221
PHONE: (412) 351-3221
NO GIMMICKS
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
mb(mSV.m *d•pp0b8" 
H|<< Â H#<< CwCgT 1CCO
pgCC JCisnca" *2*m iu???
0,iCg,sinu,sc 0,'?
FA«/ 4u,CT 0acs,y 2wC? 
fguuOcT,7 bC1 LugO FFtA<
Cafe Mocha
R|t| rug5Ca swC,9C7 ,C\i iu 46• 
s'guaa ilC 5gnyvC rguI osI59gv
|#«ÂA/tt
R|t| rug5Ca swC,9C7 ,C\i iu 46• 
s'guaa ilC 5gnyvC rguI osI59gv
|#«ÂA/tt
25* 50*
Vpp 2bL 0dm6
monday thru friday 
good through Nov 6, 1994
Vpp 2bL 0dm6
Saturday thru Sunday 
good through Nov 6, 1994
CAREER FAIR
November 3,1994
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker™ is 
looking for motivated people to establish a career 
in the brokerage business.
OLDE offers:
12-18 month paid training program 
Potential six-figure income 
Excellent benefits
If you possess excellent communication skills, 
general market knowledge and the desire to excel, 
see us at the Career Fair on November 3, 1994.
If you are unable to attend the Career Fair call:
1 800 937-0606
or send resume to:
OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 
751 Griswold Street Detroit, MI 48226
Y?VSJm
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS
Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
neclg -vfsil wd xofira 
/sf ufrlwe
líe
m
THE HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF
JERUSALEM 
TEL AVIV
UNIVERSITY
BAR-ILAN
UNIVERSITY
BEN-GURION
UNIVERSITY
HAIFA
UNIVERSITY
Programs for undergraduate and graduate students: 
ONE YEAR PROGRAMS • SEMESTER PROGRAMS 
SUMMER COURSES 
COURSES TAUGHT IN ENGLISH
For more information please call:
Hebrew University 
Tel Aviv University 
Bar-Ilan University 
Ben-Gurion University 
Haifa University
1-800-404-8622
1-212-687-5651
1-212-337-1286
1-800-962-2248
1-800-388-2134

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 1994
fCsg n,aengCa yugI
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
Sometime last spring, a group 
of Donner 2 East students found 
a giant white bear up in a tree 
in the middle of Schenley Park. 
Being the impetuous youths 
they were, they climbed up the 
tree to rescue the bear. The 
students took pity upon the 
bear, who was a vic­
tim of neglect and 
abandonment, and 
rescued him from a 
death worse than 
fate. Then they 
brought said bear 
back to Donner, and 
thus, A1 Zabear was 
welcomed into the 
Donner 2 East fam­
ily. A few gallons of water and 
cans of Resolve carpet cleaner 
later, the bear was healed from 
his prematurely gray hair con­
dition, and is now bright, alive, 
and somewhat silent. To this 
day many Donner 2 Eastians 
wonder how the bear got up in 
the tree in the first place. (There 
is some speculation that O.J. 
Simpson left him there, but of 
course, it is only some specula­
tion.)
A1 can often be seen in the 
room of Nathan Everett, senior 
mechanical engineering major. 
At other times A1 partakes in 
various floor activities, such as 
Big ATs Movie Night every 
Wednesday at 9:00 PM in the 
Donner TV Room — free food!
— and he watches the movie 
with everyone else. He’s prob­
ably the most polite member of 
the audience. A1 is also an hon­
orary SDC member. Our offi­
cial SDC representative 
Michael Sperger takes him 
along to the meetings.
A1 really is a great bear, once 
you get to know him. Some 
members of Donner 2 East look 
up to A1 as a spiritual leader 
and guru. With a charming wit 
and glint in his eye (that usu­
ally comes off the overhead 
lights), A1 is the embodiment of 
the Donner 2 East spirit — 
sometimes quiet, sometimes 
flaming party animal. A1 was 
at the Donner Dungeon Party a 
few weeks ago, dancing with all 
the girls in sight. It was then 
that the unspeakable hap­
pened.3 A1 Zabear was 
beamapped.
He was held for 
two weeks for ran­
som. The terror­
ist group (which 
may or may not 
remain nameless) 
demanded that 
our Resident As­
sistant god in residence Dan 
Za-bell run “Leningrad Cow­
boys Go America” on Big ATs 
Movie Night. The bear was re­
turned shaken, but unharmed.
There have been instances in 
the past when A1 was the vic­
tim of brutal attacks of rage 
and jealousy, but like the 
trooper that he is, A1 has sur­
vived, and continues to sym­
bolize Donner 2 East’s never- 
say-die spirit. Look for A1 to 
surface at many CMU events 
in the future. If you see a giant 
white bear being paraded 
around campus by about 20 
guys, it is he. Say hello to the 
bear. Rock on, Al....
Tom Harper, Physics CS 
major and. die-hard Donner 2 
East resident, is currently work­
ing on the Al Buggy. Since Al 
wants to ride it personally, it 
might have to be pretty large...
*i9yC,i aCgwCa 9e isaiT yn,,Cg ueinu,a
Old Man Donner
By Jason Roth
Please pardon any goofiness 
you may have detected in last 
week’s column; I checked with 
my editor, and apparently enor­
mous space geese had somehow 
wrested editorial control over the 
paper from humans and enlarged 
completely bizarre portions of ar­
ticles (this never happens to 
Heathcliffe).
Having received a generally 
positive response last week, and 
remarkably few fatalities, I will 
once again embark upon a po­
tato-free column, this one vary­
ing randomly amongst the meals.
A Great Omelette: 1, 2, or 3
eggs, cheddar cheese, ham 
chunks, chopped mushrooms.
I should preface this by explain­
ing that I don’t actually make 
omelettes per se, because I don’t 
actually enjoy the strict division 
of labor between the egg and 
cheese, and because, frankly, I’m 
too incompetent to make a folded 
omelette.
So this is actually more of a 
scrambled eggs-with-lots-of- 
cheese-and-stuff-in-it, but om­
elette is a lot quicker.
Anyway, I usually just break 
the egg(s) into the already me­
dium-hot and buttered pan, and 
then scramble them with the 
spatula.
Once it begins to coagulate, 
throw in the ham and cheese (lots 
of cheese; try shredding); when 
it’s close to done, throw in the 
mushrooms, so that they’re still 
plump when the dish is done. 
Pepper liberally, and there you 
are.
Lasagna: Spaghetti sauce, lasa- 
gna noodles, -24 oz. romano, ~8 
oz. mozzarella, parmesan.
Once you’ve made the sauce 
(due to demand, I’ve been able to 
lower my $5 reprint charge to a 
simple e-mail request; if you want 
a recipe, just ask), coat the bot­
tom of a roughly 13”x 9” baking 
pan with a thin layer of it. Then 
add noodles, sauce, a thick layer 
of romano, mozzarella, parmesan, 
noodles, sauce, more romano, 
noodles, sauce, mozzarella, and 
parmesan. Throw it in the oven @ 
350 for about 30 minutes (until 
the top layer of cheese is well 
melted), and serve.
Now that’s all blindingly 
simple, so here are some tips: to 
prevent the noodles from drying 
out, make certain the sauce goes 
completely to the edges, esp. on 
the top layer; I’ve heard of mak­
ing this without first boiling the 
noodles, but have never tried it; if 
you wish to, make more sauce (or 
dilute it with tomato sauce) and 
surround each layer of noodles 
with sauce.
I often combine the last of the 
romano with the last of the sauce 
for the top layer — mmm, extra 
cheesy. Make certain the sauce is 
not too bland, as it is flavoring
quite a lot of pasta and cheese 
and, unless you are not boiling 
the noodles, the dish will be wa- 
tery. Along the same lines, don’t 
overboil the noodles — they can 
definitely afford to be al dente.
The Greatest Omelette: eggs
onions, very finely chopped to­
matoes, chopped feta cheese, 
cheddar cheese, parmesan 
cheese, Italian spices.
First sauté the onions on high 
then lower the heat, add the egg, 
scramble, remove from heat, add 
everything else, return to heat 
serve as rich, gooey mass. This is 
an amazing dish, more like din­
ner than breakfast, with the feta 
adding a wonderful bite. Add moz- 
zarella if there’s any left over 
from the lasagna.
So there you have two quick 
things and a big dish that’s not 
too much more (maybe an hour if 
you make the sauce fresh), fit for 
breakfast, lunch and dinner. Go 
to.
Jason Roth lives to cook. The 
kitchen is his realm.Work study provides jobs for select students
WORK from page, L2
ments themselves that decide 
which jobs are restricted to work 
study and which are open to all. 
“The department has a budget 
and its limitations play a role in 
how imperative work study re­
quirements are,” claims Kravetz. 
With work study, the government 
subsidizes an eligible student’s 
pay, therefore the department 
only pays seventy-five percent for 
each paycheck. Yet there are 
many departments that deter­
mine eligibility for a certain job 
by the skills required for the job, 
not just financial status.
“We’ve never had a studentthat 
didn’t get a job after seeking our 
help,” said Kravetz, “for both work 
study students and those with­
out financial aid.” Student Em­
ployment takes into consideration 
a student’s major, and his/her 
interests and skills, when search­
ing for a job. In fact, “many non­
work study jobs pay more and 
tend to be more interesting on 
the average,” said Kravetz. 
“Many students who have trouble 
[finding work] are looking for very 
specific restrictions for the job, 
such as the number of hours it 
will require and whether it is 
related to their field of study.” If 
the process seems unjust, it is 
because people forget why work 
study was created. “The program 
is used to pay for an education, 
not random discrimination 
against a specific economic class,” 
says Dana Smith, a freshmen
CFA major on work study, who 
works as a gallery attendant at 
the Forbes Gallery. She also 
added that instead of the appro­
priation of so many need based 
awards, “there should be more 
merit-based scholarships offered 
to students.”
Regardless of how financial aid 
is distributed on campus, it does 
not really affect the availability 
of employment to non-work study 
students. “Whether the number 
of jobs on campus [available to 
all] is a result of work study is 
hard to say,” said Matsko.
Freshman H&SS major, Dana 
Heath, found no difficulty in lo­
cating non-work study jobs on 
campus after attending events 
such as the Activities fair and
searching through the job direc­
tory early on in the semester.
“A job basically came to me. I 
expressed an interest in finding 
on campus employment and many 
opportunities became readily 
available,” Heath said. “I think 
that finding a job is fairly easy at 
Carnegie Mellon, as long the stu­
dent is motivated enough. All you 
have to do is to get out there and 
show a little interest,” she added. 
According to Kravetz, “Right now, 
the number of jobs on campus 
exceeds the number of students 
looking for jobs.”
Anyone interested in on- cam­
pus employment should contact 
the student employment office, 
which is located in the Student 
Center.
m/M mMJ/Sanayd
Theirs. Ours.
First relational database. First to implement SQL. First portable database software. First database compatible with massively parallel computing. First database
to perform 1,000 transactions per second. First cooperative-server database. But Oracle is not just about databases. We’re also leaders in advanced
networking. CASE, application development, office automation, development tools, multimedia. You can see, we’re also about success.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer • Technical Analyst • Consultant • Product Manager
We’ll be on campus November 16-17. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLE
Equal talent will always get equal opportuni!)'.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991

---------------------------------------------------

SfiTZCZ!
illlllAi1!
I?^yfi)l\ Shi'ppir^x^
XL-___IL
ÎL—i
iey, sweerHEÂ^T! yew mu
EPY r297 rr\ s\ I ¦ÇpfilcP /*, • —r-rAf r<1 vowii-r |I14*( Jyrr^
l'M Mît PoIA|MK>I\CH , PURCH tel*l6...J------------------ ------------------------------------------------Il—
t.x » CovAP-S¥,
i*n ttnew* 
CAlt 
"sTuOVi. 
HftH HtM
'iep YOU MÉBt> AnVThiMG Afc>«W\> «ERé, BA&y, Y OU
CALL OL* MEOc... YP, 5»p. I MAV JU4T 3? A
Srtlp?\Ñ& OE**, &MT 
I ÂASiC#»«,'/ RuN 
THIS «F-PICE'... I Pfc>U,V 
£*J<U> MORr THAM 
That Ot> biïpa^ *THey 
SfcoHG.H*r IM f*D|\Mrtt.
So, UHtefeC'o YOU 6ET __ 1^—
kH|RÇï>;
'Tc*'îs?
Tne’Çfc^e-fAjliAL
‘ ¿I uc(^ ÎActuAuy; l#M SAtty U0o9vCI.I6mm 
VPL??? ^ f0)\IXuet Sto* <**»$&.,.
« > M Vzzn PSk
iv <
Gome &ACtit Ç^np î U>H6frEPlbx you lüof^eo?
H|S <M THE 
Â\ ^ /compam/ Pu oui
\y\\C \ \ ^ v , C. cmlp12 J
What’s a Wendell?
^-!ty, RajncJosljj are? 
yov dressing uf3
for HaJtowecvi ?
by Matt Goldberg
f Nak... G^ys like 
V/e-^^-ll O-flcl 
we-C^n'-f ^<xdç_ 
•for H^!lo'^e>e,rv'
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
CALVIN, I'M TELURO'falR. PARENTS AB3UT
ims: bra nch oc m;
PIPE DOWN,ML WROX? 
HOBBES m> I CAM HARM 
HEI>,R THE TV
WRE NOT \ HE(, IF fai GOI CT ARE » IB?UG1 W COULD GET US "'ŒtWSlAU VAMPIRE VDCENS".'
/Vi
not? Some sorf ^ 
of family cyoicisr^ 
abov+ <x loo li doy 
tosed on gKos>ts 
ay>d wio nsfers P
Itam'T TV+OaJ/y, Us " 
evtm see Soinae+him a 
o<A of bit more 
fU<5 -HviwOf -punda-werrta]
STEALING MOWS SHOES AND 
MMCIN& WOM &ND DAO LATE... 
TUE« LXWNG TOE BABf 
SITTER OUT CST TUE HOUSE.,, 
VIUOOF.
TMATS MfiT TO LWE ^ 
DOWN fiOR JUST ONE 1 
DÍEHING. I FEEL J 
^FRETTf BA0.^_^^

---------------------------------------------------

I Tartan
TO INFORM 
I YOU OF A \MEW PEVEL- ;\ PPMQNT OPA paramou*/r 
! VMPPRTA^Œ
TWA/Cf Yfllfl 
FOR YOU 
PRO/VPT I 
RESPONSE § TO MYC/tL^ 
FOR THtsÆv. 
MttTIHfgBSSP
WiT-£
m HAVE THE F/A/flL CONFRONTATION 
\>JiTH PAEfccHE je/Ni- 
DOM
\ \
1
?£•
v§n
4
\
\
/r
T^/EI?E No NEÊ-P TO 
RBHINO ÎOU HOW Ml/CH 
5LO0P OUR KtUC,Dm H4s 
Sf’ILLED IW T^E- CEWW/fl10NCt
STRUC,U£f' • '“"'«¿'1 
WITH
pASft«^«
Ufeit4©w
By fWfVfT 
G«oeNi»J6
13*1 rV^AflT6fcoeo>^
In one of +be. mos+ obscene. effo'+r
dt" rnaSi cUaanrW«“ assasii''a+i’0n in -te\«j;s',on bis-to^, +be Cn+*Vfc +^'+y mino'VaÇ fff lo^V nî^wVs "Si'vipfDoç" episode uere. dedicated +o expressif (L'Jlr^ -false Q'vJ I .'tcrnl-inspired r»uVep''esentfe+io~ G-f 4^ Rep«U.‘con \ '~^l Pos\y e^er c<e=Aed V»jW . \a Ctemocratw9p2 sp*''
/ _A/M\] doctor
JX FEEL N OEPfctSSG-p
f\N>p USTLtSS TOOA^.T*id< 
kl-U. CHECfc
e arc crM ou'
( lfOTEpKlET.
THAT’S A fiÜKfAEfe. KAiVi&ei CAh) EAS-E 
V THE taNY() D
BASICALLY, LlF£ IS A HOPELESS, PUtiLÉ . ST (2.0 G G DE.
Pesp'ti+be best effort of +^e.
GroOnings of thft uxvld 4U£ lo5«/C 
U)Uo S^ppo*"t +0 i'û'xie/- -Hip;'-opponent* e.'Je'y cUa«cfi +Ve^ 9«.+, 
-Hie^’re just "five $bort uiC-ekj au»k>) ¦f^Oiv, ¦P. 'id ng ovi^ “Hifi ba^d v*)a.j "tlvx^ 
people are uj.'se -Vo+U;*- t>up.
Tbere «Ç rtO"H\!«\g a/nosingjr\Osa+>'-tJI r\ a"Hs<V\p-t •' g +0 SmPar "Ke fttpvU.'un 
Pa'-^'j ¦H^ actwal vO>-^
Seri'oùÇ |e.nowJn +0 ba-zi. loe£r\
Committed b^f tVe V<jrr\0erotic Pa'-ty.
Yoobav/e no doe boo riled ypXam, bJT- -H-Æ Companies tbat Sponsored tV\£ pile of garbage layt nigWt m\gV>+ be getting a b.'nt +bïs weefc. VirV^ itorviba<jf UVe Gfoen'.n«^ oQ«ci +o be con^^oo+eti b'j 'We'»*’ VMpotfit'j l III o.r\tl c,\cir&vrr;
FROM THE MON^kTT WEÊE COWCtWB?, U)ElÊE 00 A ST6A^y DCXOOHIUL 5U19E TO TOTAL A^dlHlLATlOtf.
VOEJOSTtOASTE 00Ê. UlMiTEü TIKE Ok) GACTH PftETE>^l06 U)HAT lOEDO HAS Atfj S1601FICA0Œ v fiT AUL. y
r WE P0K3T VaJAnJT TO APMIT IT; &UT Ev/G^TH|n}0 IS TVHxdEARNnn2 :
X vjjoo\d get SvcLya W*’ck / a loo Jt-
pou) ¡a seeing (y<oe,«ir\cj uJ<-i+Uing poin as ke iiû/\g\eil b'j R section o-T^ifin+esti^e-F<-Orvi a+*-oe. A4-tkewe^^ le&Ç^ r«v, bopiog foro, slooooooovM poinfo\dea+b via some bo*-riVj\£1 \\r»€5{ of bis newovs S'jftÇ^iOne I +bo^ ûUoOS bi«n to(¦y regain P«j\Im auia't¿P^Aÿ^OvJn+;\ b«i V®r'i'c‘^
9oi>t \eV s\toxittt; lew* ft+biOxl of-vUc. le^+ u>>og i« •Ve\eo»s;ior, gc' um-h, cIg^p*-;-^iVe P£pobl(c^n Par^«, w«<nbe<^.A h(\ctS OA hou a«d H,e Vc.loP£ you represent ç\,oj\eA go ^«ar'S'*)e'^d
VA)Hy \?0 ^1 EEEU .So SOPCfcr)U^ 
ftEFft^HtO7
(T yooFoe.6oT ^ 
AG>oaT youfi. STUPVT7 STO&ÊEQ TOE, 
9\9rO‘T boo? y
yohyCT uPttIu-kTO EASE S. Pftlio? >
ooe. yaaTM isCOOÆ0, MAfO.
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
I'LL eeTHB N5V5R DRÉAJMEP HZVimiQ 5BB 56NA70P- 
? NORTH '
THBVPS MOTI­VATED, 5IK ! iœ/'Z£TAsœ> WITH PROTECT­ING F1R5T AJABNPMBtfT
|pi 06HTS!
\EMmie, BACK IN 0LU5
PesoT lM MgocSogeP seefwYOURTE AM leoerr/Nô pmnvm EFFICIENT.
6C0P. IU/ANTTD6RABAN 
M.R.B. BEFORE TONIGHT£ SPEECH. I'M 6BTTINÔ 5ICK OF BANQUET RATIONS! A
YEAH, IU. NEEP A 
FRESH ONB. THIS HAS GOT 
6RA VY STAINSONIT^d
TRUEB5UEVEF5. 
rrs A NO-BRAINER. ALL1HAVET0P0 15 WRAP MYSELF UP IN THE FIA6.
ANY­
THINGICAN
THAT HE6KLER. TONIGHT, PUKE-CONTROL!/Sf AFFIRMATIVE, THE mss % COLONEL !&
AREA SECURE? JIrws^s#WARPRÛBE'.5BNPUPA\ HOW'S 1 THAT, ] COLONEL*]
THANKS,
COLONEL.WHO ARE YOU SPEAKING TO, SIR?'N"BARS'. ON THEVOUBLS!
THE ONLY PROBLEM IS PATA 
FLOW. WHEN YOU TELL ONE LIE, ANP THEN YOU HAVE TO TELL ANOTHER, ANP THEN ANOTHER... LJHAFSTHATCAUEP?
THE WAY MOOT PEOPLE SEE IT, 
you'RE A STRONG LEAVER— SO STRONG THAT THE TRUTH Y/ELPS TO YOUR MILL! YOU SERVE A HI6HER TRUTH!
MORE OF THE SAME! THE MEPIA ARE OBSESSBPWITH MY "LIES"!)m IS 5VLL0/TY OFFICER /NOME'S SITUATION ROOM./NcomerSECONPBALCONY!
, iJuH Ev( X
iPOk/N/M
WHO TRADED ARMS WITH 
TERRORISTS ? WH05HREPCEV EVIPBNCai WHO LIED TO CON­GRESS? WHO STOLE FUNPS?
WHO 90 YOU WANT REPRE­SENTING YOU-A RECOVER­ING PARTY ANIMAL OR A MAN ¿OHO HAS BEEN...
MISSIONCREEP.ROGER, CONTROL! WE GOT m 
b HIM! J
OF. THAIS 
. MY ONLY BEEF, m
MY FRIENDS, WHAT THIS ELECTION COMES Dam TO IS CHARACTER!
WOULPNT WORRY ABOUT IT, SIR-...CON­VICTED OF FOUR FELONIE.
r IQÇÔ IS ALMOST HERE!' TWO MORE YEARS OF THE WAFFLE, ANP PEO­PLE W/LLBE SCREAMING FOR A STRONG COMMAN­DER IN CHIEF ANP HIS LOYAL RIGHT-HANP MAN!
...ANP n 
ogsaneC 
EJIv/) iEH hk/Ivhivk/’ km mHpk/’ kIH­id­/Hb y/pH.Jp iHhE/vqhJpvivH’D
AND I'VE GOT A MESSAGE FORTHB CRIMINAL ELEMENT IN THE 6REATCOM­MONWEALTH OF VIR­GINIA : 6ETCUT! RNP 
ANOTHER STATE, LIKE ^ NEW YORK I - wgd
HEADS UP, ^ COLONEL. YOU \
XcMonaa,sXratAto YOURSElFjim
THE PEOPLE OF VIRGINIA ARE T/REP OFREVOLVING- POOR JUSTICE, TIRED OF SPINELESS JUPGES...
WHO AREYOU, PUKE? DO YOU HAVEA RESUME?
IDIDNT SAY 
WHAT I JUST SAID! ANYONE WHO SAYS I 
PIP ISA LIAR I
ITHOU&tf
PERMISSION TO SPEAK 
FREELY,SIR??loi ciaoIUicm
¡THOME.

---------------------------------------------------

THE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSON
The gods play with Ted and Jerry
“Uh, uh, uh — I wouldn’t do that, Thorg. 
I know how to use this thing."
Laddergrams
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
L0AN
DEBT
Copyright 0 1994 
by Mark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved.
(Da)
4-> (f) CÜ
“And yes, Norman was beheaded, cleaned and 
plucked.... But we all know Norman’s wacky sense 
of humor, and we can take comfort knowing he 
would've gotten a kick out of this."
"Mr. Bailey? There's a gentleman here who claims 
an ancestor of yours once defiled his crypt, and now 
you're the last remaining Bailey and ... oh, 
something about a curse. Should I send him in?"
kn gC'iugsa
s ,Ci the-
Ur\cut- E.cLcLior\ -ßecxs t
by i rex. Hov5 «
ZHU ^
ré.
RegRist COl^P FKEP
YasseR AR<Vpa+ I
© / ? ? V f Ct/UAJo. Tç

---------------------------------------------------

WE'RE HAVING A
VAI*
OFF
on the world’s broadest library of computing books for professionals, from PTR Prentice Hall
Come see us 
October 31- November 4,1994University Shoppe - Baker Hall
Carnegie Mellon University 
Schenley Park, Pittsburgh
PTR
mS
Professional Technical Reference
PRENTICE HALL
0 The Professional's Choice •
ELEGANT CORPORATE APARTMENT SUITES 
_-U-_X<t8|e 8ea|_*<t8|e 8U e|' 
<X<82<»2- |e 8et-_e-t
liie"ÇÇinv?'uIÇ.niia59gvlÇ
d28d. |e (8ttU»J_A"m t"-e "|t-2
PHONE: 441-4444 FAX: 687-7312 5405 FIFTH AVE. PITTSBURGH, PA. 15232
Information
Session
Meet with representatives of the Ford Motor Company, and 
you’ll get a taste of the 21st century. Our Engineering and 
Information Systems professionals are using cutting edge 
technology to take Ford into the new era.
If you graduate with a degree in Information Systems, 
Computer Science, or Engineering (Electrical, Mechanical, 
Chemical, Computer, or Materials), come look into what Ford 
has to offer.
Don't miss this unique opportunity to take your talents into 
the future with the Ford Motor Company. We look forward to 
meeting you!
All interested students are cordially invited to attend 
an information session:
Porter Hall, Room 125C 
6pm - 8 pm 
Thursday, November 10.
Please dress casually. Refi'eshments will be provided.
By choice, Ford Motor Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
“*We âeaccU^uC
all <vte cU&cotutted 50%. 99
POCS ARE COMING 
TO PAPERMART!"
m m
All HAUQWEWmnewwm?2Q%0FF
• Masks • Make-up •• Candy • Stickers• Decorations • Party Favors «Candles • Tableware• Costume • Helium Balloons Accessories
GREAT SELECTION
Paperart
One Stop Party Shopping
M&-P)^HvVK)T<£? A-UL-

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Clerks: see this movie, suffer through bad acting
jy NATALIE WOCHELE
1artan Staffwriter
Clerks, the first film directed and writ­
ten by Kevin Smith, portrays a day in 
he lives of two cashiers at a New Jersey 
onvenience store. Dante Hicks (Brian 3’Halloran), the main character, is asked 
his boss to open the Quick Stop Gro- 
eries store when he’s supposed to be 
leeping in late and enjoying his day. 
’he tale revolves around supposedly 
musing convenience store icon-custom- 
frs, who go looking for perfect eggs and 
¡xpiration dates on milk cartons, to ones 
-ho ask to use the employee rest room 
while borrowing a porn magazine.
And then there are Dante’s devoted 
•jrlfriend Veronica (Marilyn Ghigliotti), 
Randal (Jeff Anderson), the clerk who 
forks at the adjoining video store, and 
is high school ex, Caitlin (Lisa 
¡poonauer). All of them are counter­
© 1994 Miramax Rims 
Jeff Anderson (left) and Brian O’Halloran (right) hang 
out in the movie Clerks.
parts that are placed for the purpose of 
giving Dante’s day more originality. “I’m 
not even supposed to here,” Dante fumes 
after he is shocked by Veronica’s sexual 
revelations, Caitlin’s wedding announce-
ment, and Randal’s outra­
geous insults and behaviors 
towards customers.
For a movie that won the 
1994 Sundance Film Festi­
val Filmmakers Trophy and 
1994 Cannes Film Festival 
International Critics Week 
Awards, the acting was out­
rageously mediocre.
The cast who call them­
selves actors and who study 
acting were overcompensat­
ing for lack of emotional con­
nection to their characters. 
The main indicator of this 
was their unsupported and 
shrill voices. They might as 
well have filmed the cold reading. Basi­
cally, there were no inner plays. In rela­
tion to the script, the acting failed to 
convey the writer’s original intentions, 
which were the ideas of “consumption”
and that a convenience store can be 
more than a “generic pit stop for a pack 
of smokes and a loaf of bread.” If I hadn’t 
read the press review on the production, 
I—and most CMU dramats, I believe— 
would agree that the main point was lost 
due to poor acting. The only decent act­
ing was Dante’s faithful store pet, the 
cat.
The script is too predictable. It was not 
a smart idea to place visual markers as 
a transition into the next scene. It was 
original, but it took away some of the 
film’s essence and humor. Actually, I 
have to admit, it started out to be a very 
good and original script, but, by the end, 
the movie wasn’t going anywhere.
With even a modest budget of $27,575, 
not even the script was worth this much 
sweat, especially when you take into 
account that Kevin Smith bartered his 
comic book collection for store credit, 
then sold the credit to a friend. In other
words, he sold book by book to pay for 
this production. Actually, David Klein 
(Director of Photography) did a very 
decent job, considering the low budget. 
Even though this is not an European 
movie, filming Clerks in black and white 
made it possible to convey a more realis­
tic life scenario, if it hadn’t been for the 
acting. Have I said this before?
Anyway, it is obvious that I would not 
recommend this movie to anyone, not 
even for those who enjoy watching ter­
rible productions. A coroner in the movie 
asks Dante, as she collects data on a 
customer’s demise, “What kind of conve­
nience store do you run here?” As ex­
pected, Dante has no reply.
Like the coroner, I have one only ques­
tion, “How can such a movie, lacking all 
the essentials (actors, script,...) win the 
Cannes Film and Sundance Awards?” 
Dante probably couldn’t answer me ei­
ther....
4uIn' sginai iCcca ur r9i9gC eguaeC'ia
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
Jart two: continued from last week’s column
Regretfully this is the conclusion to my 
' interview with Christopher Moeller. Also 
including this week is the Shadow 
Empires:Faith Conquers limited series from 
¡¡Dark Horse, with the fourth and final issue, 
hitting the stands on Wednesday.
What will Moeller do after this? “I don’t 
Ihink Dark Horse will be willing [to continue 
ipublishingS/ia(ioM;^772pires] but I’d be happy 
if they did. I’d like to keep doing the book as 
¦long as I can.... It’s not something I’m ever 
;oingto get bored with.” From reports of last 
^weekend’s Philadelphia Comicon, it seems 
;hat Moeller is correct about Dark Horse 
lince he announced that the next install­
ment of Dark Horse will be from Kitchen 
¡ink Press.
Moeller has a lot more stories about the 
; JShadow Empires universe. He has a large 
¡ketchbook (which led to the work with Dark 
jHorse) which is , an encyclopedia — or even 
Bible — of the Shadow Empires universe, 
fe uses it for references to insure continuity 
in the books. The sketchbook represents 10 
rears of work by Moeller but actually con- 
s an entire history of his created uni- 
rerse. So far we have only seen a glimpse of 
that universe.
If Moeller doesn’t immediately continue 
Shadow Empires his “worst case scenario 
would be to do Star Wars [limited series] and 
make a name for myself and then [continue! 
Shadow EmpiresIn the meantime he plans 
to continue doing comic book covers because 
“they’re a good way to make money” and 
possibly contact Carl Potts (editor of Marvel 
Epic Comic line) about reviving Alien Le­
gion.
As one can see from his comics, Moeller is 
¡an avid science fiction fan. He lists Isaac 
iimov’s legendary Foundation series as a 
iajor influence on the development of the 
'hadow Empires universe. In addition to
the Foundation books, Asimov’s Robot books 
along with David Drake’s Hammer 
Slammers, had influences on his writing 
overall. It was his love of science fiction—in 
the form of a portfolio to demonstrate his 
painting talents for SF book covers — that 
landed him his initial work with Innovation.
His art has also been influenced by the SF 
genre with the brothers Hildebrant, Boris 
Vallejo, and Frank Frazetta. In addition to 
those, Moeller also lists the “romantic real­
ists” N.C. Wyeth (“The Hildebrants practi-
for different facial angles and the manne­
quin for shadows and lighting. It typically 
takes Moeller 12 to 15 hours to complete a 
fully painted page. This is in addition to the 
week to layout the pages plus time for script­
ing, which takes a lot longer. “I work on 
scripts when I want to take a break.” 
Although Shadow Empires is not techni­
cally a self-published book, Moeller has 
received many similar benefits at Dark 
Horse. “[Dark Horse] hasn’t curtailed my 
freedom, so I have nothing to gain from
___________________________________ going self-published.” However,
B______________________B Moeller doesn’t rule it out en­
tirely: “I have thought about it, 
but painted work is really ex­
pensive. But way down the road, 
maybe.” For now Moeller’s im­
mediate plans are to, “make a 
name for myself in the [comic] 
industry. There’s plenty of room 
to grow.”
Before I conclude this, I’d like 
to publicly thank Mr. Moeller 
for inviting me spend some time 
with him in his studio. Even 
though I was already a fan, this 
interview has made me an even 
bigger fan. If you haven’t been 
reading Shadow Empires:Faith 
Conquers, then buy it as soon as 
you can.
Christopher Moeller will be 
the guest at Great Eastern 
Convention’s Pittsburgh show 
on Sunday, November 6. Ad­
mission is a meager $3, and it’s 
always a nice show with a lot of 
great deals. Also, if you will be 
in New York in December and 
January you can visit the Four 
Color Images Gallery for a show­
ing of Moeller’s Rocketman art­
work.
© 1994 Christopher Moeller ^ason Andracki, a sophomore
The last Issue of Moeller’s S/jac/ow Empires comes out this professional writing major, is
very disgusted with the English 
Department. After teasing him 
cally rip off N.C. Wyeth”), Howard Pyle, and last year with a course titled “Serious Com- 
others from the early 1900s as major influ- ics,” which was later cancelled, they won't 
ences. even offer it next semester. “Fomas Kesling, if
Not exactly influences, but still part of you’ll pardon my frankness, sir, was ajelly- 
Moeller’s artistic approach, are scores of suckin’ toad.” -Lt. Fox in Shadow Empires: 
catalogs and a mannequin. The catalogs are Faith Conquers #2.
week. One day he will hopefully be able to continue it.
¡Ed Wood creates laughter, touches heart
¡By. DAN GOLDWASSER 
Tartan Staffwriter
Ed Wood/has been describedby many as the worst movie director 
nhistory. WithsuchfihnssasBrideoftheMonster.GlenorGlenda, 
“U(l the infamous Plan 9 From Outer Space, it came with no 
^surprise that someone would eventually make a movie about.this 
¦J&tector/actor/screenwnter. This someone is none other than Tim 
i Burton, who is well known for directing film's, fi'om the zany (Pee- 
pfe’s Big Adventure) to the dark (Batman) to the touching (Ed- 
! ward Scisaorhands). Burton takes the story of Ed Wood and 
t makes it into a movie which will both malte us laugh and touch our
Johnny Depp (Edward Scissorhands) stars as the title charac- 
¦ ter. From the beginning of the story, we see that Ed Wood is not 
your average person. His girlfriend (Sarah Jessica Parker,iiorcey- 
noon in Vegas) is noticing that her angora sweaters are disappear­
ing. Yes, Ed is a transvestite. Given the opportunity to direct a 
i him about a sex-change, Wood ends up writing the script to fit his 
i: °wn transvestite^ experience, and calls it Glen or Glenda. But he 
J. wants a star in his film. After befriending Bela Lugosi (Martin 
landau), he convinces him to be in the film (yet not as the main 
¿character — Ed played Glen ... or Glenda). Soon, more movies 
_ — of them getting increasingly worse, all starring Bela
s Lugosi. However, Lugosi, who is a heroin addict, gets sicker and 
. sicker, until he dies. As a tribute to him, Wood decides tomake a 
; movie starring Bela posthumously by using footage he had taken
earlier of Bela, and filmingnew footage with his wife’s chiropractor 
covering his face. The resulting film is Plan 9 From Outer Space. 
which Has also been given the honor of being known as the worst 
film ever made, johnny Depp does a very nice job as Ed Wood. The 
character is a bit eccentric, but then, he does have a passion for 
angora sweaters. Martin Landau is excellent as Bela Lugosi. 
Prom the accent to the appearance and personality, Landau has 
got Lugosi downto a science. I smell an Oscar nomination here. 
The biggest surprise was that Bill Murray was in this film. He 
played Bunny Brekenridge, whose aspiration was to get a sex 
change down in Mexico, When that didn’t work out, he came back 
and starred (reluctantly, it seemed) in Plan 9 From Outer Space. 
Almost the comic relief, Murray always got a laugh when he spoke.
Filmed in black and white, Ed Wood gave me almost a sense of 
parody. From the opening where (accompanied by creepy music) 
the: titles have the actors’ names on tombstones in a cemetery, I 
knew that this was going to be a funny, al most twisted movie. I was 
right about thefirstpart.Thiswasoneofthe funnier movies I have 
seenthis year, 'rim Burton does an excellent job at recreating the 
whole genre of schlock horror films, and showing us what hap­
pened behind the scenes of them.
Ed Wood was very enjoyable, and I highly recommend seeing it 
if you get a chance. It is playing down at the Beehive, in Oakland. 
Some weekend nights, they are showing a double feature — Ed 
Wood and then Plan 9From Outer Space. From what I’ve heard, 
Plan 9 is not worth seeing unless you’ve seen Ed Wood. It seems 
I’ll have to check it out sometime.
.n__s ICsa9gCa 9e
The Pizza Reviews
by Jon Slenk and the Pizza 
Review Board
What We’re Doing
This is the first in what we 
hope to be a series of pizza re­
views. Our goal is to check out 
pizza available to the campus 
community (we’re only review­
ing pizza places that deliver to 
campus), so you can make a 
really informed decision about 
which place to order from when 
you get that certain craving 
(check out the Beer Reviews for 
tasty beverage suggestions, too).
What we’re going to try and do 
is review two different pizzas from 
each place. One is going to be a 
pepperoni pizza, and the other is 
going to be whatever the man­
ager considers to be the “specialty 
of the house.” It is our intention 
to use the pepperoni pie as a sort 
of measuring stick across all busi­
nesses, while the specialty will 
give you, dear reader, for whom 
we are doing all this, a feeling for 
what possibilities exist (man, I 
sure can’t wait for that first ochre 
and beet pizza).
Rialto Pizza
The Review
Our first review is of Rialto 
Pizza, which is located in 
Greenfield, just up the road from 
Brewster’s Ice Cream shop 
(mmm, ice cream). We’d like to 
note that everyone at Rialto was 
friendly, courteous and helpful. 
There ya go.
The specialty toppings were 
broccoli, mushroom and zucchini, 
but we’ll kick off this inaugural 
review with the pepperoni pie.
The Measuring Stick
Upon opening the box, we were 
greeted with a good looking pie. 
The cheese was plentiful, and was 
nicely melted, not browned (one 
of our review team has a strong 
aversion to browned cheese on 
pizza, so this was a Good Thing). 
A quite lovely aroma quickly had 
us salivating like we were in some 
Pavlovian experiment (mmm, 
Pavlovian experiment). So, we 
dove in!
It appeared that there wasn’t 
any sauce on the pizza, rather, 
slices of tomato were sandwiched 
between the crust and the cheese. 
This turned out to be something 
of a mixed blessing, as far as our 
review team was concerned: one 
of us liked it because “people so 
rarely get the sauce right,” while 
another one of us found himself 
wishing for a stronger tomato fla­
vor than the slices could give.
The pepperoni was well done, 
somewhat crispy around the 
edges, and thin. While the pie 
wasn’t carpeted with it, there 
were about two or three pieces
per slice of pizza, and that seemed 
pretty good.
The crust was soft, light and 
airy, “a good folding pizza,” al­
though we all agreed that it was 
somewhat bland. It was also quite 
greasy, which we didn’t like.
The House Specialty
On to the other toppings: broc­
coli, mushroom and zucchini. The 
crust, sauce (well, tomatoes), and 
cheese were all the same as the 
pepperoni pie, so we won’t keep 
going on about them. We thought 
that the zucchini was quite good, 
but the broccoli and mushrooms 
weren’t all that impressive.
After quite a bit of discussion 
and deliberation, we decided the 
toppings, while not perfect, did 
work well with the particular 
combination of crust, cheese and 
sauce present, since the veg­
etables weren’t overpowered by a 
strong sauce. Still, I think there 
was a general consensus that we 
would have liked to have had a 
stronger flavor from the toppings, 
such as from onions, black or 
green olives, or perhaps green or 
hot peppers. Personally, I would 
have liked that with sauce, also.
Hard Numbers
Our system is going to be a 10 
point scale (so a rating of 5 means 
“eh, average”). We will judge the 
crust, cheese, sauce and toppings 
of each pizza to give you a more 
warm and fuzzy, quantitative 
feeling about the whole review 
process.
Crust: Our maximum rating 
here was a 7, our minimum a 6.
Cheese: This received a high 
rating of 8.5, and a low of 7.
Sauce (actually, just toma­
toes): One of us really liked this 
idea, and gave the amazingly high 
rating of 9. The lowest rating was 
a 6.5 by an open minded, yet 
somewhat disgruntled sauce 
lover.
Pepperoni: Here we got a high 
of 6, a low of 5. Nothing to send 
paroxysms of pleasure pulsating 
through your central nervous sys­
tem, but nothing to find particu­
larly repulsive, either.
Specialty Toppings: Our
crack squad of culinary experts 
gave a high score of 7 and a low of 
5.5.
Prices
From the menus we have, we 
figured the pepperoni would cost 
about $6.50 (16-inch), and the 
specialty would cost about $7.20 
(16-inch). It’s worth noting that 
Rialto has plenty of coupons float­
ing around, so you can probably 
shave a buck or two off of these 
prices.
Conclusion
If we take all the numbers gen­
erated by the review team to cal­
culate an overall score, we some­
how get (drum roll): 7. That 
means, “Good stuff. Check it out.”

---------------------------------------------------

110The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 1994
NT'lC gCcCsaCa ,C1 sc59I
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffuiriter
After a four year break 
Queensryche released their sev­
enth album Promised Land 
earlier this month. I’m glad to 
say that all of those who jumped
Promised Landis not their best 
release, but it certainly is not the 
worst. Each song is unique, so it 
is impossible to be bored with the 
album. This isn’t a disc that 
knocks you over right away. Ac­
tually I was quite disappointed 
with it at first listening, but once 
on the Queensryche (who were 1 gave it a chance, it grew on me lines 
from Seattle before be­
ing from Seattle was 
cool) bandwagon with 
“Silent Lucidity” will be 
sorely disappointed 
with Promised Land.
That automatically 
gives it my seal of ap­
proval.
Abandnevertobe con­
fined to the borders of a 
particular musical 
genre ^(usually consid­
ered heavy metal, but to 
avoid the Beavis &
Butthead-ness that 
term implies, I’ll call 
them progressive 
metal), Queensryche 
continues the experi­
mentation for which
they are famous. Many songs with each subsequent listening, mend Promised Land to any 
on this release feature inter- Although no member of true Queensryche fan, espe- 
esting samples and a few songs Queensryche is incompetent, ciallythosewholüied27te.Rage 
have a complete horn section. Promised Land solidifies two For Order.
Queensryche shows a lot of talent on the new CD.
members' positions as the pre­
mier musicians of their field. I 
don’t think vocalist Geoff Tate 
has ever sounded better, nor 
has he demonstrated his range 
so vividly.
He has the bizarre knack of 
making even the corniest of
- “It could have been 
different, dad,” from 
“Bridge,” and “A man 
whose life was toil like 
a kettle left to boil," 
from “Someone Else?”
— sound serious. The 
intro to “Damaged” 
proves that ho: one can 
top bas sist Eddie Jack­
son.
I really can’t pick a 
favorite song yet;:: but 
the standouts are: 
'“Damaged,” “I Am I,” 
“Lady Jane,” and the 
title track.
Also, “Bridge” is mu- 
sicxdly great, plus i t b as 
some of the most poi­
gnant lyrics ever writ­
ten . I highly recom-
Pumpkins
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Artist: Smashing Pumpkins 
Album: Pisces Iscariot
Suggested tracks: “Soothe,” “Frail and Be­
dazzled,” “Blew Away”
It’s been a busy year or so for the Smashing 
Pumpkins, what with 
their newest album 
Siamese Dream going big 
(due in no small part to 
the Buzz Bin MTV rota­
tion of “Disarm” and “To­
day”), making the cover of 
Rolling Stone, and head­
lining for Lollapalooza; it’s 
a wonder rock & roll’s fa­
vorite dysfunctional fam­
ily still keeps in tune.
But this collection of out- 
take songs from SD (as 
the name Pisces, two fish, 
and Iscariot, Judas, trai­
tor among the disciples, 
implies) gives a good per­
formance, as well as one 
stripped of the 500-guitar 
effect so overly used on 
Dream.
It’s always nice to see 
that the band that literally records 80 tracks per 
instrument per song can do a stripped-down demo
do it again
and still carry the same amount of strength as they 
had previously.
The collection starts off with “Soothe,” an inward 
solo acoustic/vocal ballad, which then rips straight 
into the hard rock of “Frail and Bedazzled,” ¿s. 
playing Billy Corgan’s ability as a songwriter to 
swing his moods around like a battle-ax. “Ble^ 
Away,” a song that, for some reason, reminds me 
of the Byrds or the Mamas and the Papas — or 
someone—just sounds 
nice. I played “Blew 
Away” over and over 
again, and I ju8t 
couldn’t help but say 
“Hmm ... nice,” every 
single time I heard it. 
It’s just that good.
Siamese Dream broke 
this band all the way 
into the mainstream, 
and this collection is 
just proof that Smash­
ing Pumpkins was 
worth the break; they’re 
not just another one-off 
band. If this is the out- 
take sessions, I’m al­
most afraid to see the 
next album. In any 
case, the naked songs 
on Pisces Iscariot, com­
bined with the fleshed 
out recordings on SD, will make Smashing Pump, 
kins a definite force to be reckoned with.
Pisces Iscariot is a collection of outtake songs from 
Smashing Pumpkins' last album Siamese Dream.
0,wsanu, IuwnCa ur ilC esai aincc n,wsyC wnyCu aiugCa iuysT
It’s been 10 years since the first at­
tack. They called it Red Dawn. Normal, 
everyday U.S. high school students were 
the first witnesses to this attack, watch­
ing the paratroopers fall from the sky 
during homeroom. Soon, the entire town 
_ was occupied by the Soviet forces. The 
File 13 u.S. had been taken off guard ... and 
by Carey Clevenger now they were here. 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ The students fled to the mountains to 
fight against the invaders. They named 
themselves after the school mascot: the 
Wolverines. Taking to the hills, they 
fought the invaders with their hunting 
rifles, bows, and procured Soviet equip­
ment. The casualties were great, and 
the exact details of the outcome were 
uncertain.10 years later, we are still not sure 
what happened.
Many of these warriors proved them­
selves, in this, their first mission. Among 
them were Captain Charlie “Hot Shot” 
Sheen, Sargeant C. Thomas “Soul Man” 
Howell, and General Patrick “Ghost” 
Swayze. They did the unthinkable: de­
stroying Soviet tanks, drinking deer 
blood, charging Soviet gun emplace­
ments, urinating in radiators, getting 
shot up, brandishing their firearms, and 
trying to convince us that they are re­
lated to Harry Dean Stanton.
I’m writing all of this down; all that I 
can remember, that is. It’s been over 10 
years since the first wave came, destroy­
ing our culture as we knew it; this makes 
it exceedingly difficult to remember ev­
erything that happened in chronological 
order. But, I will try my best.
I am writing this in the hope that if 
someone ever tries this sort of thing 
again, that you will be wise enough to 
stop them before they get as far as they 
did this time. I, in the meantime, will 
continue my struggle against the inva­
sion that still continues to this day.
To fully understand, we must go back 
almost 60 years. That’s when the U.S. 
started its Cold War against the Soviet 
Union. There was always a tension be­
tween the two countries, and I suppose 
it was only a matter of time before the 
inevitable occured: we made movies about 
them invading us.
Their valiant efforts will surely echo 
through the halls of history, as soon as 
someone figures out how the story ended.
The next attack was codenamed Inva­
sion: U.S A. This time, it was a Soviet- 
lead attack from Cuba. They came 
through Florida: a fishing vessel full of 
terrorists, led by the ruthless Richard 
Lynch. In the end, only one man could 
stop them: Chuck Norris.
Norris did not display the same hero­
ism as did his younger counterparts in 
the Red Dawn invasion plan; in fact, 
most of his feats of heroism could be 
chalked up to blind luck and enemy 
ineptitude. Norris was a force to be reck­
oned with, brandishing his twin shoul- 
der-holstered Uzis.
Norris was wise in buying an Ameri­
can car — his black Bronco was nearly 
indestructable, except for one headlight. 
The heavily-armed invaders had not yet 
realized that grenades work better 
against vehicles than moving targets, 
and that bullets should be fired at the 
moving targets instead of the vehicle’s 
safety glass.
In the end, however, it was Norris’ 
sharp tongue and keen wit that won the 
day. “I’ll give you so many rights you’ll 
beg for a left,” he boasted. “One of these 
days you’ll wake up, and you’ll see me
there, and then you’ll know: it’ll be time 
to die.” His adversaries could not com­
pete. They were defeated intellectually, 
as well as physically.
The final assault came unpredictably. 
It was Operation: Terror Squad. This 
time it was the Libyans. They sent four 
terrorists into Indiana by boat. We 
weren’t expecting this form of attack, we 
thought that it was impossible. That’s 
how they managed to invade.
As was the case in the first invasion, 
those most affected were the high school 
students. It was after-school detention, 
and everyone was there that you would 
expect: a history book brandishing 
teacher, the brainy nerd, the football 
jock, the perky cheerleader, the rebel­
lious musician, the punk rock girl. A 
typical after-school detention. The de­
tention was soon overtaken by the ter­
rorists.
The terrorists, in this case, should 
have won. First, there is the instance of 
the “surprise attack.” Second, their weap­
ons were much more highly advanced,
of the then-local police chief and reck­
less driver, Chuck “The Rifleman’ 
Connors. By surrounding the school, they 
were able to keep the terrorists in with 
their hostages, preventing them from 
escaping.
But it wasn’t just Connors who stopped 
them; it was the Terror Squad, the de­
tention subjects themselves. By using 
the high school’s sophisticated CAD I 
CAM system, the nerdy guy was able to 
build a crossbow with which to fight 
back. Too bad he only made one arrow.
Meanwhile, the rebellious musician 
climbed atop the school bus en route to 
the airport, and he managed to rescue 
the punk rock girl from the terrorists’ 
clutches. All in a day’s work for the 
Terror Squad!
Now that you know what happened, 
you can help to curtail any future inva­
sions. Just remember: the invasion could 
come from anywhere, at any mom....
Carey “Chainsaw” Clevenger is a se- 
nior field operations commander and a
requiring fewer reloads than our weap- junior brandishing analysis chief, as well
ons. Third, they were able to elude the 
police in such a strange town for at least 
five minutes, indicating that they had a 
superior sense of direction.
The reason they didn’t win is because
as a junior creative writing, major. He 
has written 15 books about his field expe­
riences with the CIA, all of which haw 
been classified and seized due to security
measures.
MCC, C\eCgnIC,ia u, sc59I
WEEN, from page LI
tered during the pauses in a 
naggingly brittle British attempt 
at an accent) pulls off the difficult 
task of lampooning deadly dis­
eases.
In a way that actually makes
tempts to follow up the success of 
Pure Guava’s “Push th’ Lil’ Dai­
sies,” amicably filled by the tracks 
“I Can’t Put My Finger On It” and 
“Roses Are Free”.
Many bands find themselves 
stuck in a commercial 
grind when they 
get transferred 
from an indepen­
dent label to a 
major, however, 
Ween’s first two 
albums, God 
Ween Satan: The 
Oneness, and 
The Pod, were 
put out on Twin 
Tone Records
and ShimmyDisc, respectively, 
before they were signed to Elektra 
— yet Ween seems to have re­
tained its original objective as a 
band.
It appears that they will con-
one wonder if the Weeners are 
starting to take themselves a little 
too seriously,“Spinal Meningitis” 
is an extremely dark-sounding 
song, which doesn’t really put the 
sense of hilarity in the foreground.
At the same time, they pump 
out some really crazy things. The 
cheesy four-track instrumental 
spoof, “A Tear For Eddie,” made 
me cry with laughter at its bla­
tant use of chorus and flanger 
effects in an attempt to make it 
smoother. The refrain to Free­
dom of ’76 (“Mannequin was 
filmed at Woolworth’s, Boyz II 
Men still keepin’ up the beat, 
yeah, Freedom of ’76”) sent me 
crashing to the floor.
And, of course, there’s the at-
© Danny Clinch
The guys of Ween have a definite sense of 
humor which comes through in their music.
tinue to piss off the 
parents and friends of 
fine American youths 
for generations to 
come, at least as long 
as they can keep this 
up.
Ween has four al­
bums out: God Ween 
Satan: The Oneness, 
The Pod, Pure Guava, 
and Chocolate and 
Cheese, which can all 
be obtained at the 
record store nearest 
you. Also, don’t for­
get, if Ween should 
come to your town, 
they are always in 
search of hot meals 
backstage, and they’re 
a crazy concert, too.
B U !> c it <;A R 1) E ¦V S / \Y1 1. I. 11 A M Í¡ IS I R (i
2•J0d0Vb*
The Performance 
Experience of a Lifetime!
Listen to the crowds...hear the thunderous applause. You know you’re where you want to be...and Busdi Gardens in Williamsburg, Virginia is ready to make it all come true.
No other place can offer you a package like this: eight high performance mainstage shows; a tremendous assortment of strolling entertainment; a dedicated staff that cares about de­veloping your talent; plus FREE classes in voice and drama as well as FREE access to Busch Gardens, Williamsburg and her sister park Water Country USA. There is also a new sports medicine program, a variety of excellent employee ac­tivities, and housing coordination to help make your stay more enjoyable.
More than 250 positions are now available for:
• Singers, Dancers, Instrumentalists, Actors,Variety Artists• Technicians (stage managers, audio engineers, lighting and follow-spot operators, and wardrobe dressers with sewing experience)
Sound exdting? It is! Plan on starting your experience of a lifetime at Busch Gardens/Williamsburg Auditions '95 and bring us your best 11/2 minute performance! We will be conducting local auditions in:
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Saturday, November 12th 
1:30pm-5:30pm 
Point Park College 
Laurence Hall, Studio 104 
201 Wood Street
If diosen, you can begin working weekends from February through April 95 and fulltime from May through October ‘95. 
if unable to attend the local auditions, send us a video along with your resume and photo to: Auditions, c/o Busch Gardens Entertainment, One Busch Gardens Boulevard, Williamsburg, VA 23187-8785. For more information, call (800) 253-3302. Busch Gardens is an equal opportunity employer.
89,Isu eCarngIi
WILLIAMSBURG, VA.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 31 October 1994111
BMtom
Thursday, November 3
Too Outrageous Animation
Everyone remembers those old-time cartoons: 
explosions, cats that eat human flesh, Bugs Bunny. 
And DH2210 wants to rekindle those old memories 
for you by giving you the Too Outrageous Animation 
cartoon short festival. A series of 20 short cartoons 
from Canada, France, and the US — among others. 
The festival is a truly artistic masterpiece that 
includes bondage, disemboweling, and funny little 
dogs.
Cartoons like “Liver, Lust or Louie” and “Nanna 
& Lil’ Puss Puss in ‘Who Calcutta the Cheese’” have 
that Warner Brother’s flair that you might recall 
from the Merrie Melodies series. Rated NC-17 for 
deep philosophical content, these shorts are out- 
rage-alicious.
At 6, 8,10pm, and midnight.
Friday, November 4
4 Weddings and a Funeral
This movie is about two birthday parties and a 
bris_Jesus, do I have to tell you people every­
thing? You take and take.... Anyway....
This movie stars Hugh Grant and Andy McDowell 
in a happy old romantic comedy that traces the 
genesis of a relationship through four weddings and 
a Mason’s ceremony. God, I’m silly. Actually, it’s a 
funeral.
This film examines the basic tendencies of infan­
tile masturbation, as shown by Freud, and is a good 
date movie if you’re into hearses. See it. It’ll make 
you feel good.
At 5, 7:30, lGpm, and 12:30am.
Saturday, November 5
Speed
Amphetamines: the dangerous fruit of the rabid 
60’s. This film focuses on the effects of hard drugs on 
small cute rabbits, and boy is it a doozy. Well, really 
it’s all about a bus that goes really fast and Dennis 
Hopper who wants to blow it up.
Starring Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock as 
hopped up drug addicts, this film, directed by Jan 
De Pont, runs through a gambit of deep and grip­
ping emotions. No, I’m sorry, I’ll stop....
It’s about Reeves and Bullock on a bus that goes 
careening all over the place and might explode and 
is full of tension and horror and death and related 
themes. With just enough plot to make it crunchy, 
Speed is a good date movie if you’re into buses.
At 6, 8,10pm, and midnight.
Sunday, November 6
Wrestling Women 
vs. 
Aztec Monster
Prom our friends in the sunny south comes Wres­
tling Women vs. Aztec Monster, a Mexican film 
dealing with.... 
No, that’s it. I don’t know anything about this 
movie, nor do I care to know about anything called 
Wrestling Women vs. Aztec Monsters. I assume it is 
all about Wrestling Women and Aztec Monsters, 
but don’t hold me to that. Tell you what, people, if 
you want to know what this is about, go ask some B- 
movie buff, not me. I mean, what do you want from 
me? It’s not like I get paid for this or anything, so I 
can’t just go gallivanting around figuring out what 
all these movies are about. 
A good date movie if you’re into women.
^ 6, 8,10pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Stargate gCwnwCa a'nC,'C rn'inu, rncIa
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Movie: Stargate
Starring: James Spader, Kurt Russell
Ever since the Star Trek movies, or maybe 
as far back as the ending of the Star Wars 
trilogy, science fiction films have gone into a 
severe decline. The old method of using a 
conceivable scientific breakthrough to make a 
plot that bedazzles an audience while 
making a point has become lost in a 
web of competition between studios to 
put out the most hype-able film, with 
the best special effects anywhere, at 
all costs. This has resulted in a de­
mise of the quality plot for this genre.
At last, with Stargate, MGM breaks 
the cut-throat barrier by making a 
movie that keeps the audience riv­
eted and in their seats, not from be­
ginning to end, but building to a cli­
max, as a good movie should. Boast­
ing superb performances by James 
Spader and Kurt Russell, this motion 
picture (it’s been a longtime since I’ve 
thought that a film deserved that type 
of label) plays upon the unknown tech­
nologies into which the Egyptians 
were said to have tapped, and the 
possibilities are endless.
James Spader stars as Dr. Daniel Jackson, 
a linguist who has been studying the pyramids 
and their etchings, and who has formulated a 
hypothesis that the pyramids weren’t even 
built by the Egyptians. Despite scoffing from 
his peers, he is invited by a woman named 
Catherine (Viveca Lindfors) to join in a secret 
government project, dealing in cryptography; 
specifically, the etchings which have been found 
in archaeological digs in Egypt some 40 years
ago. Jackson realizes that the symbols they god is absolutely the most chilling thing I 
have been looking at are actually star con- have seen in a good amount of time. James 
stellations, and that the sequence they have Spader’s character is played with a subtle 
been trying to read is just a set of directions, eloquence; his interaction with Kurt Russel’s 
It is then revealed to him what he is really bluntly militant character is truly hilarious, 
working with: a space-warp portal type of from moment one, and his constant tangen- 
device, capable of transporting its passen- tial mini-soliloquys made me choke on a
gers 50 million light-years away from their 
origin. As it turns out, this sequence opens 
the “stargate,” and Jackson goes through 
the portal, aided by a troop of soldiers led by
© 1994 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. 
Spader (right) and Russell (left) look real cool in Stargate.
newly reinstated Colonel Jonathan O’Neil 
(Kurt Russell), who has been dealing with 
the recent loss of his son to the accidental 
pull of a trigger. But getting there is only 
half the fun; you also have to get back.
swig of overpriced cola. Russell also plays 
his character to a tee; the bonding between 
him and one of the natives of the other world 
is touching, as well as gripping, as the death 
of his son grips his soul throughout 
the film.
And now, the special effects 
(drum roll, please): WOW!!! The 
watery substance of the stargates, 
as well as the really cool warp 
segments, will knock any theatre 
audience right out of their socks. 
Also, the cool beast that was de­
signed for this movie has the mix of 
ugly and downright cute that we’ve 
come to expect from these crea­
tures; a mix of dog, horse, and cow 
with which any audience will fall 
in love .
In essence: this movie kicks all 
butt! Every person in the audience 
with which I saw it walked out 
buzzing with conversation, some­
thing I haven’t seen after a Sci-Fi 
flick since Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home. 
Really amazing. Go and see it, if you can get 
two hours. I guarantee, with all the digital 
sound that this movie pounds into your 
hapless ears, that the $3-6 price is compen­
sated for by the theatre experience. ThisTrapped in the other world, Jackson has to 
find the key to the other “stargate” in order movie was definitely one that I can see being 
to find his way home. weakened by videocassette production, but
To say any more would be to reveal too it was a good one nonetheless. So what are 
much, but I will say that the performance by you reading this for? Pick up the phone and 
Jaye Davidson as a certain Egyptian sun call your local theatre for times.
Loot vnwCa vcnIeaC ur lncsgniT7 vuuy s'in,v
By JON SLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
Play: Loot, by Joe Orton 
Where: City Theatre
The program describes Joe 
Orton as something of the Bad 
Boy of theatre. He reveled in the
or lauded his real persona, in an 
effort to fan the flames. So, right 
off the bat, I liked him.
The story goes something like 
this: The mother is dead, lying in 
a coffin at home just prior to the 
funeral. The widower (McLeavy, 
played by Dan Frezza) is some­
what remorseful. The nurse (Fay,
) City Theatre/
photo by Suellen Fitzsimmons
controversy his plays created, played by Anne Louise Bannon) 
penning letters under pseud- who was attending to the de- 
onyms which either condemned ceas^dis, perhaps, looking to find
another husband. Yet, I hear you 
say, where does the “loot” come 
into all this?
The son (Hal, played by Brad­
ley Dean) and his undertaker 
friend (Dennis, played by Chris­
tian Rummel) break into a bank 
neighbouring the cemetery and 
make off with several thousand 
pounds, a crime which comes 
under the investigative eye of the 
police (Inspector Truscott, played 
by Don Wadsworth and Officer 
Meadows, played by the director 
Richard McMillan) with ... hi­
larious consequences.
The first thing I noticed was 
that everyone (with the slight 
exception of Dean) was do­
ing a marvelous job with 
the accents. Kudos to the 
actors and to Kate Aronson, 
the dialect coach.
The next thing I noticed was 
that my sense of humor didn’t 
quite jive with most of the other 
members of the audience.
Loot is supposed to be a “farce 
with an attitude,” and while there 
were some humorous bits, I didn’t 
find myself wracked with laugh­
ter. This doesn’t really detract 
from the play; I just wanted to 
note that if you are expecting this
production to have you in tears, 
well, it won’t (check out the Three 
Amigos bit with the singing bush 
and invisible swordsman for 
that).
Rather, what we have here is 
an example of English farce — 
light hearted, with bits of frantic 
comic action, and a sub-text sati­
rizing British life: the clash be­
tween Catholic and Protestant 
churches, the saucy libido of 
healthy human beings, the prag­
matic lust for wealth and the 
proper respect for the law, in all 
of its bizarre and tenticular in­
carnations (paraphrase: “It’s 
lucky for citizens like you that 
authority behaves in such seem­
ingly alarming ways!”).
Oroton is, all be it subtly, pick­
ing on some of the more interest­
ing and, yes, stereotypical aspects 
of British society which, fortu­
nately, are not entirely lost on an 
American audience.
Tickets for this production 
aren’t cheap—they are a bit over 
$20, but if you become a City 
Theatre member for $25/year, 
then tickets become only $10.
Loot plays until November 13. 
Call 431-CITY for more details.
Data Processing
Just imagine where our 
Campus Interviews 
could lead you!
You could find yourself in sunny Tampa, Florida, 
in a career-enriching opportunity with TIME 
CUSTOMER SERVICE, a division of Time Warner 
Inc. Our magazine fulfillment division, which 
supports 10 million subscriptions and $800 million 
in payments, currently has exceptional full-time 
opportunities for:
PROGRAMMERS
Working with our high-calibre team of program­
mers, your primary responsibility will be to assist in 
the development and maintenance of very large 
subscription files. We will rely on you to develop 
and modify new and existing programs in COBOL, 
C/C++ and other programming languages. Knowledge of CASE TOOLS and 
GUI is preferred. We require permanent residency, reliable transportation and 
strong PC skills.
Please join us for our
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Wednesday, November 9,1994 
In addition to a state-of-the-art IBM MVS/ESA environment and competitive 
compensation/relocation package, you'll enjoy sundrenched beaches by day 
and balmy breezes by night. Not to mention friendly people, affordable housing, 
and exciting year-round activities.
We look forward to seeing you on Wednesday, November 9, 1994. See your 
placement Office for further details. If unable to attend, please contact 
Recruiter, 1 N. Dale Mabry, Tampa, FL 33609-2700,813-878-6195. We are an 
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.
Time Customer Service, Inc.
A Division of Time Warner
Just imagine where our 
Campus Interviews 
could lead you!
You could find yourself in sunny Tampa, Florida, in a career-enriching opportunity with TIME CUSTOMER SERVICE, a division of Time Warner Inc. Our magazine fulfillment division, which supports 10 million subscrip­tions and $800 million in payments, currently has excep­tional co-op positions in the following areas:
APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT
Working with our high-calibre team of programmers, you will develop and modify new and existing programs in COBOL, C/C++ and other programming languages for sizeable subscription files. Knowledge of CASE TOOLS and GUI is preferred. We require permanent residency, reliable transportation and strong PC skills.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
You will work with our telecommunications staff to design and implement new network designs for our locations in Tampa. Qualified candidates will have a technical background in communications theory and operations. Familiarity with token-ring standards and operational characteristics, as well as bridging and routing techniques, is a must.
.cCsaC ïun, 9a rug s, n,iCgwnC1 si ilC
BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE
dl9gaysT7 buwCI5Cg A7FhhR
In addition to a state-of-the-art IBM MVS/ESA environment and competitive compen­sation/relocation package, you'll enjoy sundrenched beaches by day and balmy breezes by night. Not to mention friendly people, affordable housing, and exciting year- round activities.
We look forward to seeing you on Thursday, November 3,1994. See your Placement Office for further details. If unable to attend, please contact Recruiter, 1 N. Dale Mabry, Tampa, FL 33609-2700, 813-878-6195. We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer.
Time Customer Service, Inc.
2 Jnwnanu, ur dnIC Msg,Cg

---------------------------------------------------

Professor Thomas DaCosta Kaufmann, De­
partment of Art and Archaeology at Princeto:
University, will present an illustrated lecture i 
the auditorium of The Frick Art Museum on 
Thursday at 7:15 pm entitled, “Hollar and the 
Art of His Times.” Lecture tickets may be pi 
chased in advance by phoning 371-0606, and ^
priced at $5 for museum members and $7.50 for ___ __________
non-members. A wine and cheese reception will Submit Calendar and
follow the lecture. announcements! Announcements should
be 20 words or less and are due Thursday
Opening Reception for Karen LaMonica’s at 5 pm. Drop them off at the Tartan
paintings will be held on Friday at the Studio
Gallery, 1415 East Carson St., from 6 pm to 9 pm. 
For more information, call 381-6400.
Take a trip to the Andy Warhol Museum!
Free transportation will be provided for this trip 
on Sunday from 2 to 5:30 pm. Admission is $3. 
Limited to the first 40 students who sign-up. Buy 
tickets at the Student Center Information Desk. 
Buses leave Morewood Parking Lot precisely at 
2 pm. Sponsored by AB Special Events.
Reconstruction of an Aazudian Temple will 
be on display from this Tuesday through Novem­
ber 22 at the Hewlett Gallery. The exhibit 
features relics, photographs and other seem­
ingly real artifacts of an imaginary civilization 
conjured up in the mind of artist Beauvais Lyons. 
Lyons will present a public lecture on “Mock— 
Academics” on November 2 at 5 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM103. The lecture will be followed by the 
opening reception at the gallery. For more infor­
mation, call 268-3877.
Loot, by Joe Orton, will be performing at the City 
Theatre, 57 South 13th Street through Novem­
ber 13. One of the great farces of contemporary 
theatre, “Loot” is described as “Arsenic and Old 
Lace”with an attitude of a bad haircut. Purchase 
tickets at the box office by calling 431-CITY. 
Contact Sara Durkacs at 431-4440 for more in­
formation.
Opportunity for Artists! The Hewlett Gallery 
is accepting proposals for its 1995-96 season. 
Site-specific, collaborative and multdisciplinary 
projects in science, visual and performing arts 
enjoy a special welcome. For application forms 
and additional information contact Petra Fallaux 
at the Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 
#111, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890, or call 268-3877. Deadline is 
December 9,1994.
ox.
oiceOB HI
£ ike P'1
ga na da, nation of idiots and 
people who say ‘eh’...
WU Rocks!
We're going to Colgate on the 
way to Simmons baby!
Civilian Man - 
ou got my attention - now 
show me what you got. And ofy 
yeah ... call me “SIR”!
Military Man
„FILMS
The Fencing Club meets on Sundays (at 2 pm), 
Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays at 6:30 pm in 
the Fencing Club Room (former Activity Room B) 
in the main gym. For more information, email 
cd2b, call 862-2899, or subscribe to 
cmu.student.fencing.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For more information, email cd2b, call 862- 
2151, or subscribe to assocs.Kenpo_Karate.
The Celtic Society’s October meeting will be 
held this Tuesday at 8 pm in Porter A19. Eric 
Canali will talk about the many Celtic traditions 
that have found their way into our modem celebra­
tion of Halloween. For more information,
Scott Reilly at 268-6767.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds met 
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty ,H 
poom 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email ks59 or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na­
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend our 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See our bulletin board 
near the front of Doherty Hall for information on 
upcoming activities.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians meets at 9 pm on
Thursday nights in DH1217. For more informa­
tion, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
The CMU Shotokan Karate Club meets on 
Thursdays at 7:30 pm and Saturdays at 11:30 am 
in Thistle Hall in the gym. Advanced classes meet 
on Tuesdays in Activity Room A in the gym at 6:30 
pm.
Improve your foreign language skills over 
lunch with the Modern Languages Department: 
Tuesdays: French Table at 2:30, Russian Table at 
12:30; Wednesdays: SpanishTable at 11:30; Thurs­
days: German Table at 11:30, Fridays: Japanese 
Table at noon. All groups meet in the Morewood 
Cafeteria with the exception of the French Table, 
which meets in Baker Hall 246A.
The news according to D 
not be featured this week 
back to your regularly sch< 
uledj)rogram.
Peter,
Putnam, Hayes 
ever is a GOOD cor^^^^^j 
Don’t get on
Are you sure... so do you want 
to go upstairs?
Edward -1 want a rematch!
Now, how many:ofyou actually 
did the reacfii^for philosophy?
Thanks Jeff'fbr ALL 
MESSAGES!!! I’ll have to re­
turn thefitVorioneimmm
IT’S GROUNDHOG DAY!!!IÜ HW®»««»
Is it half-full or half-empty?
purulent = 
prurient =
: excrement 
ecstacy
Marylee -
BOC in four days! Just wanted 
to remind you, that’s all. Sigh, 
time just flies away, doesn’t it?
gotta be a roommate thing 
_ ^;but' I-swear they use to 1 
=) normal.
Okay everyone, I do NOT have journal entries * T-accounts!
a black book or did I EVER! 
Just to make it official!
Re:. Edward
J ARGH!!! it’s the invasion of | 
the Upton Iced Teas!!!
Lay off the Halloween candy!
itll improve your fig-
:;
“Won’tyou come in my kitchen?”
:fB^ck,what!sw^%i^hro^r?
scale!!!
eric,
ding, too.
Igp'/Wee, Meeschka^andLala;
llamar-back i 
Chin & Man
Gee, we drove that dude mete; 
You guys are my SPECIAL up at Leslie’s, didn’t we! Donl FRIENDSMSC^qborani^^^get i||Mgf|i|^' M 
Buh-Bye. -c-have a dude,. _
Squonk Opera CD release and revival meet­
ing with Kelly Affair, Brungard Evans of the 
Dance Alloy, and University of Pittsburgh Cham­
ber Orchestra “Sudden Guests” will take place at- 
the Rosebud, Strip District,
Hah! Drove that grizzley bear 
so far into the ground!
Don’t think Jtier mama can dig 
her out this time.
Screw a8a d-list! Take meofT 
before it fills my quota. Print 
that in your newsletter!
Woman,
2 years. Good and bad. Worth 
it? I think so. iwalyc,a.
Man
Devesh? Where are you?
J.H., P.K., M.C. & S.K.:
Make sure you show up for elec­
tions this year! Actually S.K. 
did last year ... sorry!
Rebecca - I never knew a Ko-
rèWn; girl-who\was as' cute as 
her name!
According to Mr. Philosphy I 
have to o much time so here is 
. a short one. (if you didn't get it, 
its ok!)
i&mL WHVivian-IamNÔTacutebunny
Paul - thanx for the i 
help! .You’re the best!
itfaout some wheels, some­
one is never going to get to 
Colgate.
it Jennifer —^......... | I gptpllit'
now! Wish it'was turkey-day 
today so I could see you!!!
Organist Joyce Moon Strobel of St.
Lutheran Church, Scott Township will perform 
All Saints’ Sunday at the Heinz Chapel on Pitt’s 
Oakland Campus on Sunday evening at 9:30 pm. 
For more information, call 682-6886.
.NOTICES
MUSIC
Copyright 1994 Twentieth Century Fox 
>CCs,9 NCCwCa na »s'O dgswC, n, )*eCCy?)
Animation Festival will be playing at Doherty 
Hall 2210 this Thursday at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 
midnight.
4 Weddings and a Funeral will play Friday in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6,8,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Speed will be shown this Saturday at 6, 8,10, 
and midnight in Doherty Hall 2210.
Wrestling Women vs Aztec Mummy is playing 
Sunday in Doherty Hall 2210 at 6,8,10 pm, and 
midnight.
MEETINGS
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-de- 
nominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues­
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning Room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for more 
information.
The Franz Liszt Chamber Orchestra makes 
its debut by opening the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music Society’s 1994-95 series at the Carnegie 
Music Hall on Monday at 8 pm. They will be joined 
by the celebrated Mozartian soprano Benia Valente. 
All ticket holders are invited to a Pre-Concert at 
7:30 pm featuring singers of Opera Camerata of 
Pittsburgh Opera Center at Duquesne. For more 
information, call 624-4129.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will per­
form on Tuesday at 8 pm in Steele Auditorium. 
Presented by California University of Pennsylva­
nia, the program will feature an exciting mix-of 
classical and modern musical selections from 
Brahms’Academic Festival Overture and Mozart’s 
Symphony No. 39 to “Charleston Rag” by Eubie 
Blake, selections from Leonard Bernstein’s On the 
Town and from John Williams’ movie score Raid­
ers of the Lost Ark. Tickets are now on sale at the 
Steele Auditorium box office. For further informa­
tion, call 938-8943 between 10 am and 6 pm.
Settie Concert, featuring original music in addi­
tion to covers of Janis Joplin, Bonnie Raitt, 4 Non 
Blondes and more, will take place on November 19 
at the Student Center Drill Deck A01 at 8 pm. 
Sponsored by the AB Coffeehouse. For more infor­
mation, contact Jill Goodall at 268-2105.
The Jesus & Mary Chain will perform at Metropol 
on Wednesday as part of their “Stoned & De- 
throned”U.S.Tour. For further information, please 
contact American Recordings Media Relations at 
(818) 953-7910.
The International Poetry Forum presents 
Kathleen Norris on Wednesday at 8 pm in Carnegie 
Lecture Hall, Oakland. General admission tick­
ets are $12 each. A $4 discount is available to 
students and seniors over the age 55. For more 
details, call the International Poetry Forum at 
621-9893.
The State of Liberty in America Today will be 
presented by Don Emsberger, Libertarian candi­
date for U. S. Senate, this Thursday in the Adamson 
Wing at 8 pm. Sponsored by the Political Speak­
ers Forum Board.
The Forum on Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual 
Youth will hold its 6th annual conference, “Build­
ing Bridges: Exploring Skills and Strategies for 
Working with Sexual Minority Youth” on Satur­
day at the University of Pittsburgh’s Forbes Quad­
rangle from 8 am to 4:30 pm. The conference will 
consist of six workshop modules specifically de­
signed for educators, counselors, health and so­
cial service professionals, and religious leaders, 
as well as youths and young adults. The registra­
tion fee, which includes lunch and a post-confer­
ence reception, is $10 for students and $45 for 
others. To register for the conference or for more 
information about the Forum, call 441-9786.
Author Paid Rogat Loeb will present a lecture 
and sign copies of his latest book, Generation at 
the Crossroads: Apathy and Action on the Ameri­
can Campus on Thursday at the Community of 
Reconciliation (comer of Fifth and Bellefield) at 7 
— 9 pm. Admission is $5 for adults and $2 for 
students. For more information, call 362-1234.
Author Karen Taylor will speak about her lat­
est novel in the Vampire Legacy series called 
Bitter Blood on Saturday at Borders Book Shop in 
South Hills at 1:30 pm. Admission is free. For 
more information, call the Borders information 
line at 854-BOOK
Fall Festival will be held by the Alumni Associa­
tion of St. Francis Medical Center’s School of 
Nursing on Saturday from 11:30 am to 4 pm at the 
Fox Chapel Yacht Club. The festival will include 
a luncheon and fashion show in addition to a 
raffle, bake sale, boutique and white elephant 
sale. Donation is $15 per person. To make 
reservations or for more information, call Mary 
Jane Kelly at 828-7679 after 5 pm.
»lunteer!!! The Office of International Educ­
tion and the Global Nomads organization a 
coordinating a cultural exchange between Amen 
cans and international or transnational student 
and scholars. Volunteers are needed for Holid? 
Homestay, a program where Americans invia 
^international scholars to thetf^'omfefrfor a meal a 
overnight stay during Thanksgiving or Winte 
Recess. If you can volunteer your time and homi 
to share your culture with others, contact tbf 
Office of International Education at 268-3520 o 
email fsadv@andrew.cmu.edu.
Career Day 1994, presented by the Economx 
Club of Pittsburgh, will be held from 7:30-11:3! 
am at The Pittsburgh Vista Hotel on November 
10. This program is designed to acquaint stu 
dents of Business and Economics with the widt 
variety of career opportunities in business a 
government, and to network with members ofth? 
Economic Club of Pittsburgh. For reservations« 
further questions, please do not hesitate to call 
Matthew Marlin at 396-6250.
What is GIS? What is Urban Planning? What 
is Regional Planning? What is Public and Inter­
national Affairs? Learn about the “Master’s De­
gree Program in Urban and Regional Planning” at 
the University of Pittsburgh Graduate School <j 
Public and International Affairs, 3J12 Forbei 
Quadrangle, on November 11 at 3 - 5 pm. For 
further information, call 648-7640.
Entrepreneur’s Day, Pittsburgh’s premier small 
business conference, will be held on November li 
at the David L. Lawrence Convention Centei 
Pre-registration deadline is November 9. F01 
further details, please call 578-3481. Presented 
by the Enterprise Corporation of Pittsburgh.
Donate canned food!!! The Point Park College 
Playhouse will serve as a collections point 
donations to the Greater Pittsburgh Communit 
Food Bank until November 20. Donations 
canned food, powdered milk, pasta, and cereal 
are being accepted, along with personal hygien5 
and household products (such as diapers, tooth­
paste, toilet paper and cleaning supplies). Done; 
tions may be dropped off in the Playhouse lobby on 
Saturdays between 10 am-4 pm, and Sunday-’ 
between 1 — 4 pm. For further information, call 
the Playhouse at (412) 621-4445.
RELI®
The First Church of Christ, Abortionist wi
meet this Saturday at 2 pm at the Women! 
Center. FCCA promotes the esthetics of a small® 
population, the ecomomics of a smaller familJ 
and the morality of sex for recreation. Bring y0“1 
gripes, your kudos, and your curiosity, and he < 
us chart the future.
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech H°“s' 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 8 pm. 
invited. For more information, please call 2 
2484.
