Netscape: Student Information: On-Line ________
I http» ://ac<» 1 .as.cmu.tdu/
Vhat't N»v?~| I Vhat's Cool? [ | Pxtinattow 11 Wt StarchSoftwar#
Midterm Final 
Units Grade Grade
15127
M CALCULUS 2
Inside
Calendar..................................;.....................L12Classified...................................11
Comics................................................................L5
Diversions...........................................................L7
Living...................................................................LI
Forum.....................................................................6
Sports...................................................................9
Forum
Writer finds good in 
greed
• see page 7
Vi. a & -oi-Ko.M '‘¦Ç f
ondo*—°’o ov>sr °' o o W ' '
.ra
irsions
Winter WonderlandA c \ -,• see page 17
Features
Pay tribute to MLK
• see page LITHE TARTAN
HUBp roUBvi dUBe sdnv ­li aBoUio tnncG Millennium III; Century XXI Bo wBdpUi Bpe 
bntaU lp ryflddUa mlaa o­li hBio WUUcUpe. PaUBiU iUU dUaBoUe iond, np g5.
Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 1906
1 <£°&eÿomiaI»©1 BackHomtReloadImagesOp»nPrtntFind
I CalCle i : tefterfinrfn I
Would you like grades for a different semeatti? | Spring 1997 ~] Qj
Spring 1995 Semester Grades
Hidterra QPA.: 3.34
Final QPA: 2.86
Uniti Carried: 56.00
Units Passed: 56.00
Factorabl» Units: 56.00
Quality Points: 160.00
Cumulative QPA: 2.76
To print tHo Information: Click fai thls area then select Prfait Freme from thè File ir
BekaLEgiteteL
HUB provides on­
line assistance
© Carnegie Mellon University 1997 
Grades are now accessible electronically from the new HUB Web site.
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
The HUB Web site officially 
came on-line on September 18 to 
provide students with updated 
personal information more effi­
ciently. In its initial state, stu­
dent enrollment information was 
only available on the web to first- 
year students in SCS, MCS, and 
H&SS. However, the website has 
now expanded to allow all stu­
dents, including graduate stu­
dents, to access their CMU 
records over the World Wide Web.
According to John Papinchak, 
the co-director of Enrollment Ser­
vices, the Web site was piloted 
with only a limited number of 
freshmen because they have been 
at CMU for a shorter period of 
time and they have fewér records 
with not as much background.
Students can access their aca­
demic records, schedules for any 
semester, grades, financial ac­
counts, enrollment data, and cur­
rent address data at http: 11 
www.cmu.edu/hub. Theinforma-
tion is kept confidential by hav­
ing students enter their andrew 
password and userid. There is 
also a section where students can 
provide feedback regarding the 
Web site.
“We thought that if we could 
teach the freshmen, the upper­
classmen would be a cinch,” said 
Papinchak. “[The Web site] has 
provided students with access to 
information. Where it’s made it 
advantageous for the students is, 
for example, they can go to clus­
ter for schedule printouts, so 
there’s less foot-traffic over here, 
and we can spend more time with 
other issues, like financial issues.”
“This Spring compared to last 
• Spring ... it’s been better,” said 
Papinchak. “This year at the Ex­
press Office window, for example, 
there’s just no one there. It’s been 
very quiet [during enrollment 
week], especially on Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday. At the 
best, we took students right away, 
and at the worst, they only waited 
about half an hour.”
Please see HUB, page 5
DoD finalizes research grant inquiry
Extensive investigation fails to incriminate CMU
Volume 91, Issue 1320 January 1997
Administration plans construction 
for new on-campus residence hall
bers of the local community in the plan­
ning and approval process before any 
decision is made,” said Murphy. “The 
preliminary committee has included stu­
dents, staff, and faculty.”
“We have experienced an increasing 
demand for student housing over the 
past several years, both in the modest 
increase in the first-year class size and
By JIM CARNEY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The building of a new residential hall 
is under consideration by the adminis­
tration to house upperclassmen and 
make room for freshmen on campus.
The dormitory will enable the hundreds 
°f freshman living in off-campus apart­
ments under lease by Car­
negie Mellon to move into 
dormitories styled for more 
interaction. The new 
facitlity will also decrease 
the need for the 150 off- 
campus apartments cur­
rently under lease by Car­
negie Mellon.
Michael Murphy, dean of 
Student Affairs, made it 
clear however, that further
discussion will be needed to make a final in the increasing percentage of 
decison on whether a new dormitory is upperclass students desiring to live in 
needed and the specifics of the new resi- university housing. Our consistent com- 
dence hall. mitment to guarantee housing to any
“There will be considerable discussion student who stays in housing has re- 
with students, faculty, staff and mem- suited in our renting space off-campus
“We have experienced an increas­
ing demand for student housing 
over the past several years ...”
— Michael Murphy, 
Dean of Student Affairs
for students. We would like to limit this 
by building more space on campus,” said 
Murphy.
The specifics of the new residential 
hall, if it is decided to be built, will likely 
be worked out in the months ahead, 
although some characteristics have al­
ready been laid down.
There has been no decision on the
------------- location of the new dorm.
However, the site currently 
under consideration is be­
tween Mudge and 
Morewood.
According to Murphy, the 
new hall is presumed to be 
co-ed and will likely be in a 
suite-style arangement. “At 
current building costs, a new 
————— residence hall would cost as 
much as $40,000 per stu­
dent space,” said Murphy. The facility 
will supposedly house less than 300 stu­
dents. The cost of the new building, an 
estimated several million dollars, will 
be paid for in part by the housing system 
Please see RESIDENCE, page 3
l-PIng U and Julee White/ Tartan Managing Editor and Tartan Art Editor 
Preliminary plans show the renovations that are underway at Hunt.
By ENA KHAN
Tartan News Editor
The Department of Defense 
(DoD) officially closed the inves­
tigation into Carnegie Mellon’s 
government-funded research con­
tracts, subcontracts, and grants 
this past Tuesday. The investi­
gation began on October 12,1993. 
At this time, DoD agents did not 
provide reasons for the inquiry 
and failed to indicate any specific 
areas or projects under scrutiny.
Upon the close of this case, all 
possible criminal and civil aspects 
of the case were dropped.
According to an interoffice 
memo by Mehrabian, no settle­
ment or payment was necessary 
to close the case.
All documents related to De­
fense Department contracts were 
requested by the DoD through a 
subpoena delivered to President 
Robert Mehrabian in 1993. In 
complying with this tedious re­
quest, millions of pages were com­
piled for the 140 contracts and 
grants in question, according to 
Provost Paul Christiano in the 
October 25, 1993 issue of The 
Tartan. In an October 19 memo­
randum, the University notified
researchers and ----------------
managers dealing 
with DoD projects 
to keep all pertinent 
documentation.
They began turning 
over documents to 
the DoD on Novem­
ber 12, 1993. Ac­
cording to Don ___________
Hale, vice-presi- WHHBOi 
dent of University Relations, 
members ofBusiness Affairs were 
involved in aiding the investiga­
tion by obtaining and packaging 
the massive amounts of paper­
work requested. The university, 
in fiscal year 1992-93, conducted 
a great deal of research funded by 
the Defense Department. Of the
$ 146.7 million total spent on Uni­
versity research, approximately 
$64.5 million was contributed by 
the DoD according to a 1993 pub­
lic statement. Mehrabian stated 
at the time that he hoped to clearly 
define the focus of the investiga-
"We have always firmly believed in 
the integrity of Carnegie Mellon’s 
research enterprise. ”
— Robert Mehrabian, 
President
tion. However, no further infor­
mation was available upon the 
closing of the case as to what 
initiated the investigation. “We 
don’t have any of the details,” 
said Hale. Christiano, in the 
public statement commented 
that the investigation was un­
der consideration for criminal
and civil charges.
Mehrabian said, “We are ex­
tremely pleased that the Jus­
tice Department investigation 
has been concluded. Through­
out the three years of this in­
quiry, the University has coop-
---------------------- erated fully
with the in­
vestigators, 
committing 
the resources 
necessary to 
provide all of 
the documen­
tation they re­
quested. We 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ have always 
firmly believed in the integrity 
of Carnegie Mellon’s research 
enterprise.”
Mehrabian is still working 
with the government to resolve 
any issues regarding still-open 
federal audits and to finalize 
permanent research overhead 
rates.
Hunt begins first
floor renovations
By SHEILA FLANAGAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Construction on the first 
floor of Hunt Library, which 
involves the relocation of 
the circulation desk to the 
former reading area, began 
in mid-December.The ex­
pected time of completion is 
the end of January or early 
February. Not only will the 
relocation benefit students, 
but it will also serve as the 
first of a series of renova­
tions which the Hunt Li­
brary administration hopes 
will benefit the entire CMU 
community.
Once the circulation desk 
has moved, the books that 
are on reserve, for classes 
will be on closed reserve 
instead of on open shelves. 
This change simply means 
that only the library staff 
will be able to access the 
books on reserve and also 
that they will keep track of 
each student who checks out 
a reserved book.
This system will allow the 
staff to know the location of 
a particular book. Accord­
ing to Henry Pisciotta, head
of Fine Arts & Special Col­
lections and chair of the 
space planning committee in 
the CMU Libraries, the de­
cision to switch to closed re­
serves was based on student 
opinion.
“Several years ago, CMU 
had several committees on 
Undergraduate Education 
which included student rep­
resentation and one of the 
last ones focused on the li­
braries.
One of their recommenda­
tions was that we switch to 
closed reserves,” said 
Pisciotta.
This system, according to 
Pisciotta, will better control 
the problem of students who 
do not return reserved books 
promptly by keeping tabs on 
them and allowing other stu­
dents who want to check out 
the books to queue up on the 
computer.
There is a small amount of 
inconvenience that will per­
sist until this project is com­
pleted despite the fact that 
this construction is taking 
place to benefit the CMU 
community. Nevertheless, 
Please see HUNT, page 3
CHECK-OUT DESK
COPIERS
HUBpUr BpopBpvipSTACKS
RESERVE
RESERVE
OFFICES READINGS
OFFICES

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997
Switzerland bank junks Nazi- 
era records, violates policy
ZURICH, Switzerland Jan. 13 (AP)
— Switzerland’s biggest bank admit- 
1 ted Tuesday to throwing away archive 
material in violation of a government 
ban on the destruction of records that 
might reveal details about financial 
transactions during the Nazi era.
Union Bank of Switzerland said one 
of its employees last week threw away 
documents, apparently thinking they 
, were unimportant. Some of the docu­
ments dated back to the 19th century.
Zurich district attorney Peter 
Cosandey described the documents as 
' “politically sensitive material,” and 
' said authorities were carrying out de- 
¦ tailed investigations into the contents.
He said it was too early to say 
whether criminal proceedings would 
•be launched against the bank em­
ployee.
The documents were dumped in two 
containers to be shredded, when they 
f were spotted by an employee of a pri- 
; vate security firm guarding the bank. 
He handed them over to Jewish com­
munity representatives in Zurich who 
then alerted police.
“If God puts these documents in my 
hands, then I have to do something,” 
said the security employee, Christoph 
Meili. Meili, who has been suspended 
from his job, said he rescued only part 
ofthe documents. Therestwere destroyed
At a press conference, the Israeli- 
Hebrew Community of Zurich said the 
documents concerned details of loans 
from 1920 to 1926, including loans to
• German firms, and property dealings 
'from 1930 to 1970.
There was no immediate detail on 
whether they related directly to the 
Holocaust.
The government banned destruction 
of archive material last month as part 
of investigations into allegations that 
Switzerland colluded with Hitler’s Ger­
many, siphoned off Jewish assets, and
UBS also has its own internal ban on 
destruction of old material.
Jewish groups claim Swiss banks 
still hold up to $7 billion in assets and 
interest belonging to Jews who per­
ished in the Holocaust. Swiss banks 
have said the actual amount could be 
no more than a tiny fraction of that.
Tuesday’s revelation is certain to 
embarrass the Swiss banks and gov­
ernment. The government already has 
been facing outrage over remarks by 
former President Jean-Pascal 
Delamuraz, who called demands by 
Jewish groups to establish a multimil- 
lion dollar compensation fund for Ho­
locaust victims “blackmail.”
The seven-member Swiss cabinet 
has stood by Delamuraz, who remains 
economics minister, but has indicated 
it is softening on the compensationissue.
Christoph Graf, director of the Swiss 
Federal Archives, said a compensa­
tion fund could be created immedi­
ately because there is historical evi­
dence that the the Swiss economy 
profited from the Third Reich. Graf 
spoke to reporters visiting the ar­
chives, which are being opened to re­
searchers.
Swiss government officials estimate 
thatitwilltake 50people workingfor one 
year to go through the hordes of docu­
ments.
The government lifted the country’s 
strict banking secrecy laws late last 
year to allow a full inquiry.
A senior government official, Tho­
mas Borer, said he assured the Polish 
government Monday that he would 
provide it with a list of names of 
Polish citizens whose unclaimed bank 
assets were handed over to Poland after 
World WarE.
Borer said it would take up to two 
weeks to put together the list. A simi­
lar arrangement will be made with 
Hungary, he said.
DidBUal odnnhi Wlo­edBW sdnv mUtdnp 
Wlo­ ilzplpz ns hUBqU BzdUUvUpo
JERUSALEM, Jan. 17 (AP)—Hours 
' after Israeli troops withdrew from most 
of Hebron, Israeli and Palestinian ne­
gotiators Friday signed the agreement 
on the pullback and a future Israeli 
. troop redeployment in the West Bank.
The accord had been initialed Tues­
day by chief negotiators Dan Shomron 
for Israel and Saeb Erakat for the 
Palestinians. The two signed it Friday 
at a Jerusalem hotel.
~ The agreement was submitted 
Wednesday to the Israeli and Pales- 
'tinian cabinets for approval. Israel’s 
'parliament also ratified the agree-
ment Thursday, by a vote of 87-17, 
with one abstention, paving the way 
for a full signature.
Israeli troops left 80 percent of 
Hebron at dawn Friday, redeploying 
in the downtown area where 500 Jew­
ish settlers live.
The agreement says that within two 
months of the signing, talks will begin 
on a permanent peace agreement. It 
also stipulates that in the first week of 
March, Israel much begin its three- 
stage withdrawal from West Bank ru­
ral areas. The pullback is to be con­
cluded by mid-1998.
Cosby’s son shot to death
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 16 (AP) — Bill 
Cosby’s only son was shot to death early 
Thursday in a possible robbery attempt 
while changing a flat tire along a freeway.
The body of Ennis William Cosby, 27, 
was found about 1:45 am in a pool of 
blood next to the car.
No immediate arrests were made.
KCBS-TV reported that Cosby was on 
his way to see a woman friend when he 
called her by cellular phone at 1:15 am to 
say he had a flat and ask her to come 
help illuminate the area.
She arrived shortly after the shooting, 
calling police at 1:28 am, the station 
said. KCBS did not disclose the woman’s 
name, saying only that she lived in 
Los Angeles and was in the entertain­
ment industry.
The woman saw “at least a portion of 
this and we are interviewing her. It is 
her description that we have a male 
white suspect,” Police Commader Tim 
McBride said.
The younger Cosby’s Mercedes con­
vertible was found in a well-to-do area 
near the crest ofthe Santa Monica Moun­
tains not far from the exclusive Bel-Air 
section of Los Angeles.
McBride said, “It is unknown whether 
he was followed at this time or not. I 
think that’s a good probability. But it 
may have been a chance opportunity 
that somebody took, robbery being a 
possible motive.”
However, nothing apparently was 
taken, he said.
Explosions rock abortion clinic
ATLANTA, Jan. 16 (AP) — Two bomb 
blasts an hour apart rocked a building 
containing an abortion clinic on Thurs­
day, injuring six people, all in the 
second blast.
The explosions shattered windows 
across the street and terrified bystand­
ers, just as abortion rights advocates were 
announcing in Washington that anti-abor- 
tion violence had declined slightly.
President Clinton condemned the ex­
plosions as “a vile and malevolent act” of 
terrorism.
“Make no mistake: Anyone who brings 
violence against a woman trying to exer­
cise her constitutional rights is commit­
ting an act of terror,” Clinton said.
The first explosion was reported at 
9:30 am at the Atlanta Northside Fam­
ily Planning Services, located on the 
ground floor of a five-story building 
that houses offices of lawyers, den­
tists, and other professionals. No inju­
ries were reported.
An hour later, an explosion erupted 
from a trash container outside the build­
ing, injuring six people.
ABureau of Alcohol, Tobacco andFire- 
arms agent investigating the first explo­
sion had to be helped from the building 
and was taken to a hospital for observa­
tion. Two other people were treated and 
released, while three more were hospi­
talized for observation.
A half hour after the second explosion, 
the Piedmont Clinic, an abortion center 
about a half-mile from the Atlanta 
Northside clinic, was evacuated after 
receiving a bomb threat. Police officers 
have been sent to other abortion clinics 
around the city as a precaution; the 
clinics said they would remain open.
Democrat quits ethics panel
WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 (AP) — The 
House ethics committee’s ranking Demo­
crat said Tuesday he would remove him­
self from the investigation of Newt 
Gingrich, bowing to pressure that built 
quickly over his handling of a taped 
phone call involving the speaker.
As partisan conflict escalated to a fe­
ver pitch, Rep. JimMcDermott, D-Wash., 
said that “as a matter of conscience” he 
was stepping aside to call attention to 
Republican “subversion of an indepen­
dent, fair ethics process.”
He conditioned his recusal on Repub­
licans maintaining political balance on 
the evenly divided committee. The GOP 
could do so by removing one of their 
members — presumably newly ap­
pointed Lamar Smith of Texas — leav­
ing the panel with four lawmakers from 
each party.
Not to be outdone by McDermott, 
Republicans accused him of violating 
federal law by accepting a recording of 
a telephone call, in which Gingrich 
plotted his responses to his admitted 
ethical wrongdoing.
FBI Director Louis Freeh said an in­
vestigation would begin immediately 
into the taping by a Florida couple and 
“the subsequent dissemination” of the 
contents. McDermott did not address 
whether he leaked the tape to The New 
York Times, although the newspaper 
said it was obtained from an unidenti­
fied Democratic congressman.
McDermott tarred ethics committee 
Chairwoman Nancy Johnson with accu­
sations of violating the House rules she’s 
supposed to enforce. He said she refused 
to consider evidence on the tape that 
showed Gingrich breached his com­
mitment not to orchestrate reactions 
to the violations.
He bitterly attacked her stewardship 
of the committee, saying, “Complaints. 
lodged against members ofthe minority 
have been used as barter in negotiations 
over sanctions” for Gingrich.
McDermott’s comments were in a writ­
ten statement and a letter to Mrs. 
Johnson. The chairwoman responded 
just as harshly, lashing back in a writ­
ten statement of her own.
“I will not allow angry partisanship to 
divert the committee from its job of pro­
viding the public and the Congress with
complete information in the Gingrich 
case,” she said.
Gingrich admitted Dec. 21 that he 
violated House rules. The speaker ac­
knowledged he should have sought spe­
cific legal advice about using nonprofit 
organizations to accomplish political 
goals and admitted that under his name 
information was submitted to the com­
mittee that falsely denied his political 
committee’s involvement in a college 
course he taught.
Lawsuit filed against AOL
LOS ANGELES, Jan. 15 (AP) - 
America Online cannot handle the in­
creased load that has resulted from its 
new price plan for Internet service, a 
lawsuit contends.
The class-action suit, filed in Superior 
Court, said AOL subscribers have en­
countered “busy and unavailable phone 
lines and/or inaccessible computer equip­
ment” since the company began offering 
unlimited access for a $19.95 a month 
fee at the beginning of the year.
Attorney Louis Marlin said Tuesday 
his clients were unhappy with AOL be­
cause it has become increasingly diffi­
cult to obtain dial-in access.
“They try over and over and over again 
to try and get in and they get a constant 
busy signal. One client tried 26 times ! 
the other night,” he contended.
The plaintiffs, claiming negligence and | 
consumer fraud, are seeking at least $20 
million in compensatory damages as well 
as punitive damages and attorney fees.
Marlin said that figure is only a mini­
mum estimate “to give warning to the 
other side that we are seeking signifi­
cant monetary damages.”
The suit also asks for a court order 
stopping AOL from selling any more 
flat-fee, unlimited-access service until 
there is “sufficient equipment” to handle 
the increased amount of users.
“Every new subscriber they get 
makes it more difficult for the existing 
subscriber to connect to the service,” 
Marlin said.
“We expect to prevail in the class- 
action suits addressing member ac­
cess to AOL,” the company said in a 
statement.
“Although we understand the frustra­
tion some members are experiencing at 
not being able to obtain immediate local 
access during peak periods, the aver­
age AOL member gets more value un­
der unlimited pricing than ever be­
fore.”
It added that the company plans to 
expand the system’s capacity through a 
$250 million addition in equipment and 
services over the next two months.
In December, AOL spokesman Steve 
Sigmund said users were staying online 
20 percent longer since the unlimited 
access went into effect, averaging three 
million hours a day — up from 1.6 mil­
lion hours a couple months before.
Four-Day ForecastCarnegie Almanac
Tuesday
Wednesday
Mostly cloudy. 
Hi 54 Lo 35
Thursday
Friday
Showers.
Hi 44 Lo 42
Partly cloudy. 
Hi 30 Lo 18
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Jan. 17,1947: 
Pi Tau Sigma, the honorary me­
chanical engineering fraternity, 
broke a 23 year-old all-male tra­
dition by initiaing Mary Lou 
Mooney. Mooney, the first woman 
to enter the fraternity, was in­
ducted with 20 other pledges at a 
ceremony in the Carnegie Union.
Additionally, Carnegie Tech 
Admissions Chairman John M. 
Daniels was honored at the Theta 
Tau national conference. The 
executive council of the frater­
nity decided to name its 16th bi­
ennial convention, held in Louis­
ville, after Daniels. Daniels had 
served on Theta Tau’s executive 
council since 1931.
25 YEARS AGO, Jan. 20,1972: 
Vice President for Academic Af­
fairs Edward R. Schatz was 
named acting acting president of 
CMU to replace H. Guyford 
Stever. Stever stepped down as 
president on Feb. 1,1972, to serve 
as the president of the National 
Science Foundation.
Schatz had been at CMU assa 
student, faculty member, and 
administrator since 1939. He re­
ceived B.S., M.S., and doctoral
degrees from the university and 
served as instructor, assistant 
professor, and associate profes­
sor. CMU named him a professor 
of electrical engineering in 1961.
Additionally, Schatz held other 
administrative posts with the 
university. He served as assis­
tant head of the department of 
electrical engineering from 1953 
to 1957. From 1957 until 1960 he 
served as Assistant Dean of the 
College of Engineering and Sci­
ence, was the Associate Dean in
1960-61, Dean of Research from
1961-64, and was named Vice 
President for Academic Affairs 
by then-president J. C. Warner.
TEN YEARS AGO, Jan. 20, 
1987: CMU fraternities let out a 
resounding complaint against 
Carnegie Mellon Housing, alleg­
ing that the Housing department 
was negligent in its care of the 
fraternity houses.
Glenn Schuster, the house man­
ager of Theta Xi, cited problems 
with keys, heating, plumbing, and 
rebuilding of the outside wall as 
examples of the house’s disre­
pair. He also noted that Housing 
had deducted $433 from the Theta
Xi account for a window replace­
ment and $95 for a case of 
lightbulbs, but that the window 
had not been replaced and the 
lightbulbs had not been received.
House managers from Delta 
Upsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, and 
Phi Kappa Theta also claimed to 
have problems with housing, cit­
ing difficulties with dishwashers, 
wiring, and cockroaches.
Housing countered that these 
problems would have been fixed, 
but that there was a lack of com­
munication between the frater­
nities and the department. Di­
rector of Housing Tony Martin, 
“someone has to make me aware 
of these things before I can help 
them out.”
FIVE YEARS AGO, Jan. 20, 
1992: CMU students arrivedback 
on campus to a surprise, courtesy 
of Dining Services.
Over winter break Dining Ser­
vices made sweeping changes in 
its food service, from providing 
stir-it-yourself woks at the High­
lander Cafe to more behind-the- 
scenes modifications of meal se­
lection.
The changes stemmed from sev­
eral student polls taken before 
the break, most of which indi­
cated a desire for change from the 
student body.
ONE YEAR AGO, Jan. 15, 
1996: Several dozen protesters 
stood outside of CFA in a protest 
againt CMU’s refusal to recog­
nize Martin Luther King Day by 
cancelling classes and the Soft­
ware Engineering Institute’s in­
volvement in military technologi­
cal advancement.
Vincent Scotti Eirene headed 
the protest, originally scheduled 
to be held inside of CFA. How­
ever, Security Chief James 
LaPaglia asked the protestors to 
move outside, as the protest in­
terfered with CFA’s career op­
portunities events that were tak­
ing place the same day.
Eirene, a leader for the Pitts­
burgh Demiliarized Zone (DMZ), 
was arrested two years earlier 
for blocking the entrance to the 
SEI. LaPaglia said that he had 
arrested Eirene “at least a half 
dozen times.”
Compiled by 
ELLEN BELDNER

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 19973
Construction project 
changes Hunt Library
Student commits suicide
Andrew Pennel, a chemical engineering and computer sci­
ence major, committed suicide in his home on January 8, 
1997. Pennel, a freshmen who suffered from depression, took 
a leave of absence in the spring of 1995; he had not returned 
to CMU since then. He was 21 years old at the time of his 
death.
Pennel was born in Boston, Massachusetts and moved to 
Brunswick, Maine with his family while he was attending 
high school. He enjoyed playing tennis and skiing. He also 
played the trumpet and the bagpipes.
STUDIO receives grant
On December 19, Carnegie Mellon’s STUDIO for Creative 
Inquiry received a $65,000 grant from the Howard Heinz 
Endowment to conduct research and share ideas with the 
public regarding use of open spaces within Pittsburgh’s Nine 
Mile Run site, a former slag dumping site.
For the project, the STUDIO’s artist have assembled engi­
neers, scientists, planners, historians and other academics 
and professional whose expertise focuses on the interaction 
of the natural environments and urban communities.
The team plans on focusing on the site’s aesthetic and 
cultural potential.
The team also hopes to create a model for other “brownfield” 
sites — post-industrial areas slated for potential develop­
ment — and to promote environmental renewal of the Pitts­
burgh area.
The STUDIO will use the grant funding to conduct work­
shops, create a Web site, publish a report and start a public 
dialogue about Nine Mile Run, all as part of the first phase of 
the STUDIO’s three-phase plan for the project. During the 
second phase, the STUDIO’s artists will further explore the 
five areas covered in the workshops and develop an approach 
to the open spaces surrounding the new housing develop­
ment.
In the third phase, the STUDIO’s artists will present their 
recommendations to academics, city planning administra­
tors, and the general public via on-site presentations and 
displays.
The STUDIO for Creative Inquiry is an interdisciplinary 
center in Carnegie Mellon’s College of Fine Arts. Founded in 
1989, it serves as a focus for experimental activities in the 
arts at Carnegie Mellon.
New research center for the arts (CMAT) opens at CMU
In response to the growing need for information technology 
expertise in the arts industry, Carnegie Mellon has created a 
research, training, and service center to investigate new tech-1 
nologies, stimulate ideas about the application of these technolo­
gies to the arts, and provide opportunities for arts managers to 
test these technologies.
The Carnegie Mellon Center for Arts Management and Tech­
nology (CMAT), a collaborative venture of the university’s Mas­
ter of Arts Management program and four other organizations, is 
the first policy research center of its kind in the country.
CMAT’s mission includes working with researchers and prac­
titioners interested in information technology and exploring its 
viability in the management of professional arts organizations;
CMAT will also investigate the policy implications of emerging 
technology and test emerging technologies for their applicability 
to arts organizations.
The Center will provide opportunities for arts managers to test 
the technology in their own organizations and disseminate infor­
mation about the new technology to the arts community via 
training and on-line demonstrations.
FREE KARATE CLASSES 
Traditional Japanese karate taught by 
experienced black belts in the CMU 
Shotokan Karate Club.
Beginners welcome!
Come to the first beginners’ practice 
Saturday, January 25 
12 noon in Thistle Hall (CMU gym). 
Wear loose, comfortable clothing.
SPRING 1997 CLASS SCHEDULE:
Tuesday 6:30-8:30 PM (all levels)
Saturday 12:00-2:00 PM (all levels)
Thursday 6:30-8:30 PM (advanced only)
More info: rchabay@andrew.cmu.edu or 
rahuls@andrew.cmu.edu
Officials plan new campus housing
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Jason Siegendorf/ Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Construction at Hunt Library has made various parts of the first 
floor inaccessible to students.
HUNT, from page 1
the library staff is making a 
great effort to accommodate 
faculty and students. In ad­
dition to the quiet study ar­
eas which already exist on 
the third floor of the library, 
the library staff has desig­
nated certain areas on the 
fourth floor for quiet study.
The group study area in 
the basement has been ex­
panded with more tables. 
The furniture which was for­
merly in the small reading 
area on the first floor has 
also been moved to the base­
ment, along with newspapers 
and certain periodicals. Ac­
cording to Ignatios 
Alexander, head of Adminis­
trative Services in the Uni­
versity Libraries, there is 
also a portion of the first floor 
which is still accessible.
“The entire corner is not 
blocked off. Many people do 
not realize that you can still 
sit back there and that you 
just need to go around the 
[present] circulation desk,” 
said Alexander. Moreover, 
when the relocation of the 
circulation desk is com­
pleted, seating on the first 
floor will not be limited.
Pisciotta said that the 
area with the large tables,
carrels, and chairs will still 
exist and that a proposal 
for new furnishings will 
also be made.
While the relocation of the 
circulation desk will be a 
major visual change in Hunt 
Library, it is only the begin­
ning of a series of renova­
tions which are being 
planned for the first floor of 
the library. The preliminary 
drawing gives an overview 
of the plans for these reno­
vations.
For example, the space 
planning committee, accord­
ing to Pisciotta, has tenta­
tively proposed the reloca­
tion of the reference desk 
to the space which is pres­
ently occupied by the circu­
lation desk.
In addition, the commit­
tee plans to propose the ad­
dition of a cluster/classroom 
dedicated to information re­
sources, a reader’s lounge 
with newspapers and peri­
odicals, and several group 
study rooms.
However, these plans 
along with the plans for the 
possibility of a new Engi­
neering and Science Library 
are still sketchy and will be 
discussed in more detail at 
a later date.
Alumni, Westinghouse fund science scholarship
w.waw...................... Netsc Jason Siegendorf/ Tartan Photo Editor
The building of a new residence hall will be constructed in the space inbetween Morewood Gardens and Mudge House.
RESIDENCE, from page 1
and consequently out of student 
and conference fees.
Since housing is indepen­
dently financed, it receives no 
subsidity or support from 
within the university other 
than the housing charges.
A company has not yet been 
contracted for its building, al­
though the dormitory is ex­
pected to open in the fall of 
1999. Several companies are 
currently under consideration.
If built, the dormitory will 
have several impacts on stu­
dents when opened, according 
to Murphy. All students in uni­
versity housing would help 
share the cost of the new dor­
mitory through increased hous­
ing costs.
Donner Hall and several 
other dorms which are well-
suited for freshmen would have 
a greater freshman population. 
Apartment and suite style ar­
rangements, which are in high 
demand among upperclassmen 
and non-freshmen first-year 
students in university housing 
will be easier to obtain.
CMU alumni George Pake, along with Westinghouse, has provided the 
motivation to raise funds for a scholarship for science students.
gy GIL ALTEROVTTZ
fartan Senior ,Staffwriter
Between 1938 and 1968, over 200 entering freshmen at Carnegie 
Mellon (then known as Carnegie Tech) were selected as George 
Westinghouse Scholars, a prestigious pro­
gram that offered free tuition and a stipend 
funded by Westinghouse as well as opportu­
nities, get work experience at the company.
According to a pamphlet published by 
Westinghouse, tuition, room, board, and 
fees amounted to between $775 to $3200 
(late 1930s to late 1960s) or approximately 
$8,600 to $14,500 per year in 1996 dollars.
Now, a couple of alumni that benefited from 
this scholarship are spearheading an ef­
fort to reincarnate the financial portion of 
the scholarship.
According to George Pake, one of the two 
former recipients leading the efforts to start 
the new fund said, “My friend Dr. Ivan 
Sutherland (Engineering ‘59) suggested the 
idea of the new scholarship, and I whole­
heartedly agreed.” Sutherland says he has 
“been mulling [the idea] over for 10 years or 
so [and approached the] Carnegie people 
four to five years ago.”
Pake, who obtained three degrees from 
CMU, later became founding director of 
Xerox’s Palo Alto Research Center. Ivan 
Sutherland, the other alumnus leading the 
effort, is the vice president of and Sun fellow 
at Sun Microsystems. His doctoral thesis 
resulted in the first modern computer
graphics system.
Together, Sutherland and Pake have given over 10 percent of the 
total goal of $500,000 to endow the scholarship. Through the estab­
lishment of an endowment for the Westinghouse Scholars Scholar­
ship, one student enrolling in engineering or science will be awarded
full tuition for four 
years. The new schol­
arship will be given 
to one student every 
four years and will be 
based solely on merit.
Pake said, “I think 
an attractive feature 
[of endowing the 
scholarship] is to 
think of making it 
possible for some 
other young people 
coming along to have 
the same kind of op­
portunity that I had.” 
He added, “My 
Westinghouse Schol­
arship made it pos­
sible for me to attend 
Carnegie ... In a very 
real sense, the schol­
arship made my pro­
fessional life pos­
sible.”
Sutherland recalls 
an incident that reit­
erates the same mes­
sage of giving back:
“I went on a trip to Europe and a dear family friend handed me $100 
before I left and said ‘this will help with your travel expenses’ and I 
said ‘Can I pay you back?’ He said ‘don’t pay me back, pass it on to 
someone else.’
If you were helped when you were a young person, and later in life, 
you remember that... help some other young person.”
Sutherland also stressed the fact that such a scholarship is a 
prospective award (given for future potential) rather than a retro­
spective one (given for past achievement). He said, “It seems to me 
that the prospective awards have a great deal more value to society. 
If you can identify promising young people, and help them with their 
college careers ... then they contribute back to society over the rest 
of their lives.”
Other recipients of the original scholarship from 1938- 1968 are 
being contacted in order to obtain contributions to reach the goal. In 
a press release, Pake said that he believes that the former scholars 
“have reached a stage in our lives when we should be returning to 
society its gifts to us. Each of us was once declared among the best 
and brightest when Carnegie Tech selected us for generous support. 
Can we be generous in return and give the next generation a boost 
like the one we got?”
While there are over 300 endowed scholarships, Kimberly 
Mauersberg (Assistant director of Public Relations for Develop­
ment) noted that this one was special in that it allows previous 
recipients of the scholarship to help set up a new one.
In addition, according to a CMU press release, “Westinghouse has 
provided a grant of $150,000 to Carnegie Mellon University to 
provide financial aid for undergraduate minorities and women in 
engineering and to stimulate gifts from Carnegie Mellon alumni who 
were George Westinghouse Scholars.”
Regarding the return of the scholarship to CMU, Susan Stitt, 
Director of Development for the Western States and a CMU alum4 
nus, noted: “It’s nice to have the Westinghouse scholarship back -4 
the tradition.” !

---------------------------------------------------

Some students remained abroad ... and others joined them.
NAMEMAJORYEARLOCATION
Heidi AdickPsychology/GermanSOOsnabrueck, Germany
Kathryn AllenSpanishSOMadrid, Spain
Devan AnthonyBHASRKathmandu, Nepal
Jorge AvitiaMechESOMexico City, Mexico
Suzanna BakerArchitectureSRFlorence, Italy
Carly CenedellaPsychologyJRAix-en-Provence, France
Suzanne CraigProfessioinal Writing/FrenchJRAvignon, France
Albert-Olivier DrouartIDSJRTokyo, Japan
Lia EstradaBHASRAix-en-Provence, France
David EusticeMSESRLausanne, Switzerland
Robert FerryArchitectureSRFlorence, Italy
Cameron FreresCivESRTokyo, Japan
Justin GreeneArtSRHong Kong
Adam GulkisArtJRNagoya, Japan
Ursula HanffBiologySRFlorence, Italy
Jason HsunArchitectureSRVico Morcotte, Switzerland
Chia:Ming HuIDSJRTokyo, Japan
Elizabeth IrvineBHAJRBarcelona, Spain
Peter KanningIMSRVallender, Germany
Heather KimArchitectureSRLausanne, Switzerland
Jonathan KlineArchitectureSRLausanne, Switzerland
Meredith KnezekIMJRLondon, England
Sue KwonIMSOLondon, England
Dillon LinArchitectureSRLausanne, Switzerland
Melissa LottChemEJRAachen, Germany
Chad McMahillChemEJRAachen, Germany
Jennifer MorrisArtSRHelsinki, Finland
Rachael NassDesignJRSt. Gallen, Switzerland
Colin OsburnIMJRLimerick, Ireland
Kristine PartoviChemistryJRAix-en-Provence, France
Richard PellArtJRUbud, Bali, Indonesia
Kathryn PittmanECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Karen PryorArtJRLondon, England
Stacey ReedCreative Writing/FrenchJRAvignon, France
Amie RobinsonArtJRAthens, Greece
Perrin RowlandProfessional WritingJREdinburgh, Scotland
Donald ScaltritoChemistrySRSienna, Italy
Michael SchmidtDramaJRMoscow, Russia
Dan SlocumChemEJRAachen, Germany
Jeffrey SmithChemistrySOBrighton, England
Amanda SpearCreative WritingJRLondon, England
Margaret StallingsArchitectureJRAdelaide, Austrailia
Christopher SpearsGerman/BiologyJRRegensberg, Germany
Robert TaylorECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Christian TomfordeGermanSRBerlin Germany
Edgardo TorresMechESRChihuahua, Mexico
Afolabi WilliamsECEJRLausanne, Switzerland
Natalie WocheleIMJRNancy, France
SO CAN YOU!
- Start planning for your semester or year abroad. Call for an appointment with the Study Abroad 
Advisor, Eva Mergner, X8-4969. The Office of International Education is now located on the third floor 
-of Warner Hall. For additional information, check our bboard academic.abroad.official for up-to-date 
news on programs and deadlines and our new web page: http://www.cmu.edu/intl-ed/.
7
r
4740 BAÜM BLVD. 
Open 7 days a week
Sun - Thurs 
11 am - 2 am
Fri & Sat 
11 am - 3 am
PIZZA 
OUTLET®
WE DELIVER GREAT TASTE 
TO YOUR DOOR
Oakland/CMCJ
687-9555
WE ACCEPT CAMPUS 
EXPRESS AND 
DINE EXPRESS
ded'.
Come
Carneg 
iagMgloroUvl
ap:Sudp nudpuIf 
orS miO- L:_rS_dh
Room 242 January 27,1997 9:00pm
Very soon you're gonna have your hands on a degree from CMU. And 
every player in die high-tech market is going to be in hot pursuit of your 
skills. Choosing where to work can be ¡is important as where you went 
to school. Oracle can give you the opportunity to revolutionize the 
high-tech industry. We’re serious. Come see for yourself.
Come listen to (.MU alumni speak about their careers at Oracle, our 
invaluable 6 month training program, the orientation program in San 
Francisco and our cutting edge technology. Find out about great career 
opportunities including our new SCHOLAR Program*, summer 
internships and positions available throughout the United States.
?Current SCHOLAR participants include CMU graduates: Anthony 
Babeo May ‘96, Ellen Hasenkamp Dec.'96, Mike Stranger Dec.'96,
Cheryl Viaud Dec.'96,Jin Yong Dec.'96, and Joseph Yen Dec.'96.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box.65931-i. Redwood Shores, 
CA 9)065. Fax (415) 6.i.v.i64,H. E-mail: srylandC« us.oracle.com
Equal galenr will always t»ec equal opportunity.
(3RACILG
Enabling the Information Age7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 19975
Math professor passes away
Campus community mourns loss of teacher
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Contributing Editor
Professor Roger N. Pederson, professor of math­
ematical sciences, passed away on December 8,
1996, at age 65, leaving 44 years of strong re­
search. The cause of death is unknown.
Earning a bachelor’s degree in 1952 and a 
doctorate in 1957 from the University of Minne­
sota, Dr. Pederson taught at the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology from 1958 to 1960. He 
entered the CMU community in 1960 as an 
assistant professor, and became a professor in 
1970. He taught classes on boundary value, 
linear programing, and partial differential equa­
tions.
“He was a great guy, interesting to talk to, and 
fun to be with,” said Scott Crosby, a freshman 
CS major.
Crosby was in a class taught by Dr. Pederson 
last semester: Matrix Algebra. “[There were] 
only two people in the class for most of it. A new 
section of Matrix algebra was opened at the 
same time as his section. Everyone moved over 
to the new section ... except me, and one other 
student. Thus, most days. I enjoyed a 1:1 stu- 
dent-faculty ratio. That let me talk to the profes­
sor and learn a lot about him. He was a really 
great guy. I usually talked to him at least 1/2 
hour a day about other stuff [outside of the 
class].”
Dr. Pederson’s love of math was his greatest 
passion. “[It was] a very big part of his life,” said 
his son, Mark Pederson, a condensed matter 
physicist in Washington, DC. “And his interest 
in math carried over into his other hobbies.”
Dr. Pederson was an avid bicyclist, pianist, 
and chess strategist. He began cycling to work 
during the oil shortages of the Carter adminis­
tration and kept at this hobby until two years 
before his death.
Most of his personal life revolved around his 
various interests. “He was a great dad, a very 
dedicated father to his children,” said daugh­
ter Deborah Pederson, “He always had a per­
petual interest in math. I remember lectures 
on the mathematics of music and optimal gear 
ratios.” One of his main projects was research 
on the tempering of keyboard scales and its 
relation to Western Music’s 12-note (chromatic) 
scale. He was also an avid outdoor enthusiast.
Another striking aspect of Dr. Pederson’s 
personality was his intense focus and persis­
tence in his field. In the 1970s, Dr. Pederson 
worked portions of the Beiberbach Conjecture, 
a 1916 paper.dealing with coefficients of power 
series and inequalities in a class of math­
ematical inequalities.
“He worked out the fifth coefficient of the 
Conjecture during his work, which was a break­
through,” said Dr. Pederson’s daughter, “The 
problem has been completed by a researcher 
at Purdue, but it was done on a computer. It 
sort of shows you the kind of analytic mind my 
father had.”
“Some people would say that he was an 
enigma even to his death. He was a private 
person, but he wasn’t lonely. He was very 
accepting of other people and lived pretty in­
tensely,” said his daughter, a bond portfolio 
manager for American Express, “Near the end 
he was very excited about his two grandkids.” 
“When my brother and I were younger, we lived 
in Pittsburgh, and the big thing was to go the 
Carnegie Museum to see the dinosaurs. About a 
week before he died, my husband, children, and I 
came up to visit him, and he was so excited to take 
us all to see the dinosaurs again. He was a very 
focused and loving father and grandfather.”
Dr. Pedersonwas buried in Minneapolis, where 
his daughter, mother, brother and grandchil­
dren live.
Officials capture local fugitives
PITTSBURGH, Jan. 17 (AP)— 
Despite spending months to plan 
an escape, many inmates are 
ready to surrender when the cold 
reality of freedom hits them.
“We’ve had them walk back in 
and knock on the doors and gates,” 
said* Gerald Wilson, the warden 
at the Centre County jail and 
former deputy superintendent at 
the state prison in Rockview.
“It’s pretty unusual for them to 
stay out for long,” he said.
Six inmates dug a 70-foot tun­
nel under a wall at the State 
Correctional Institution at Pitts­
burgh and created a diversion to 
escape last week. Since then, 
two of the men have been 
nabbed in chance encounters 
with authorities.
Thomas Berkelbaugh, 48, 
turned himself in Tuesday after 
he was found babbling in a Hous­
ton bus station. He was arraigned 
Thursday night in Pittsburgh 
on charges of escape and crimi­
nal conspiracy, after returning 
from Texas in the custody of 
Pennsylvania state troopers, 
state police said.
Wilson and other experts say 
most inmates are fairly dimwitted 
social misfits who inevitably slip 
up when they find themselves 
with no money or shelter outside 
prison walls.
“Very often they’re caught 
within one to three days,” said 
Edith Flynn, professor of crimi­
nal justice at Northeastern Uni­
versity in Boston. Criminals 
“wind up in prison because they 
haven’t been exactly Einsteins in 
their lives.”
A nationwide manhunt had 
nothing to do with the capture of 
a second escapee from Pittsburgh, 
convicted killer Carmen Keller. 
He and another man, believed to 
be fellow escapee Nuno Pontes, 
were targeted for a traffic stop by 
a rookie Texas trooper because 
they were not wearing seat belts.
The men led police on a brief 
chase along Interstate 10 east of 
Houston and crashed their 1994 
Lincoln on Wednesday evening. 
Pontes ran off into the woods, but 
police said Thursday night they 
had spotted him at least twice 
and had him surrounded in a 
swamp.
Keller told WTAE-TV after a 
hearing Thursday that the six 
inmates split up in Missouri or 
Illinois a day or two after the 
escape. He said they had planned 
the escape for four months. Keller 
declined to say where the three 
at-large escapees might be.
Fugitives often find themselves 
without money and with nowhere 
to turn, Wilson said. They know 
police will be watching friends 
and family, and they cannot ap­
ply for jobs without assumed iden­
tities, he said. They risk language 
barriers and run-ins with border 
guards if they head for Mexico.
“It’s such a highly stressful sta­
tus when you know people are 
looking for you, so you do things 
to get caught,” Wilson said. “It 
sounds really stupid to the aver­
age person.”
Berkelbaugh, Keller, Pontes 
and three others shimmied 
through the tunnel from a prison 
boiler room under a 10-foot-deep
wall into an outside warehouse 
on January 8. They used a power 
drill, power hand saw, hydraulic 
jack and a guard’s stolen radio.
Police believe they stole a car 
just outside the maximum-secu- 
rity prison and were gone at least 
three hours before they were 
missed in a mid-morning head 
count.
Despite many such well-ex- 
ecuted escape plans, Flynn said 
convicts often fail to plan beyond 
the escape, or they commit more 
crimes, such as robberies or car 
thefts, to help them along.
Wilson noted that 70 percent of 
Pennsylvania inmates never have 
been married.
“They’re inadequate at inter­
acting with people,” he said.
When freedom begins to lose its 
luster, it may be smart to give up, 
Flynn said.
“They are aware that probably 
the system is not going to clamp 
down as hard if they voluntarily 
turn themselves in,” Flynn said.
Flynn also said bad weather! 
can wear down escapees and may 
have influenced Berkelbaugh to 
give up. Police planned to resume 
their search for Pontes early Sat-! 
urday morning.
Keller, 36, formerly of Pitts-, 
burgh, received a life sentence in 
1990 for killing a man two years! 
earlier over $6 and the keys to a! 
car.
Pontes, 30, formerly of Lehigh! 
County, was serving 10 1/2 to 24! 
years for burglary and criminal 
conspiracy. Pontes also was con-, 
victed of an escape from a prison; 
in Lehigh County.
Web site aids account access
HUB, from page 1
Stacey Swinehart, a freshman 
design major, agreed with 
Papinchak. She said that the Web 
site saved her some time.
“When there’s a 20 minute wait 
at the HUB and you’re late for 
class, it’s much easier to just go to 
a cluster and get your schedule 
printout while you’re checking 
your e-mail,” she said.
Although Papinchak said that 
less foot-traffic has made a differ­
ence in the operations at The 
HUB, some of the staff say their 
jobs have not yet been affected by 
the Web site.
Amanda Pracek, a HUB staff 
member said that many students 
still expect The HUB to be re­
sponsible for tasks that can be 
accomplished using the Web site. 
“Alot of students still aren’t aware 
that they can access their infor­
mation over the Web,” Pracek 
said. “Until they are aware, the 
job hasn’t changed.”
Staff member Barbara Gillotti 
agreed that the Web site had not
yet affected her job. “Whenit does 
affect us, it will be a positive 
thing. There are some students 
who study their statements [us­
ing the Web site], but some just 
don’t look at it. It’ll be a definite 
help.”
Rosemary Lewis, who has 
worked in The HUB since De­
cember, said that the Web site 
has brought some problems to 
the attention of students who 
would not have noticed them 
without first looking at the Web 
site. “[The Web site] took some 
traffic out, but I think [students] 
were checking the Web and they 
saw incorrect information and it 
brought them into [the office]. 
Maybe this time next year, stu­
dents will be comfortable with 
what they see and won’t need to 
come down to confirm it.” The 
operation of the Web site has 
gone smoothly so far, according 
to Papinchak, who says that ap­
proximately 75 percent of the 
feedback has been positive. The 
other 25 percent consists mainly
of complaints that the service 
should be expanded, primarily 
to include on-line registration.
“I’d be premature if I said any 
kind of timeline,” said 
Papinchak, “But we’d love to 
have a small pilot this Spring. 
But we want to do it right. That’s 
important for students.”
Mark Plesko, a freshman com­
puter science major, saidthatreg- 
istration could be simplified even 
further by putting the service on­
line.
“They could make it even easier 
if there was on-line registration. 
It’s pretty ridiculous that a school 
with this good of a computer sci­
ence program doesn’t have it yet,” 
said Plesko. Other features that 
The HUB would like to add in­
clude a way to update address 
information, financial aid 
award, ways to change bio­
graphic or demographic facts, 
and a way that parents could 
look at their childs account in­
formation while still keeping 
grade information confidential.
Anthony Chao/ Tartan Photo Editor
The new HUB Web site will help to allieviate congestion in Warner Hall experienced in previous semesters
Crime and Incidents
12/17 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 2:02 am. CMU police 
discovered a discarded condom 
dispenser outside of a Margaret 
Morrison apartment. The 
dispenser’s cover was pried off 
and there was no product or 
money found inside. Police do 
not know where the dispenser 
belongs.
12/27 THEFT, 11:17 am. The 
Skibo Coffeehouse manager 
called CMU police in the morn­
ing to report that someone had 
removed $151.09 from the 
coffeehouse’s safe room. Employ­
ees discovered the theft when the 
cashier arrived for work and no­
ticed that all of the paper money 
was missing from both cash trays.
The previous night’s closing 
employee did not have the combi­
nation to the safe or keys to the 
kitchen and safe room. The em­
ployee could not remember 
whether she had closed the safe, 
which the night manager had 
opened, after placing the trays
1/10 THEFT, 5:59 pm. A CMU 
student called police to her dorm
room when she discovered that 
her roommate had moved out over 
winter break. The student re­
ported that her futon and a fan 
were missing and that she as­
sumed her former roommate had 
taken them.
The only people who had access 
to the room over break were the 
former roommate and her boy­
friend. The student does not know 
her former roommate’s new loca­
tion.
1/11 THEFT,9:21 am. The Ba­
gel Factory manager reported to 
CMU police that between 6:30 
pm and 6:30 am on January 10, 
someone entered the Bagel 
Factory’s cash register and re­
moved approximately $90.
The cash register showed no 
sign of forced entry. A CMU Din­
ing Services employee told the 
police that he had put $100 in the 
register at 6:30 pm and that a 
clerk card or key is necessary to 
open the cash register.
1/11 THEFT, 9:56 am. While 
CMU police were responding to 
the theft report at the Bagel Fac­
tory, the manager of Si Senor
informed police that he was 
missing $30 in quarters from 
the cash register. There were 
no signs of forced entry into the
Si Senor register, and a paper 
tape showed no clerk card activ­
ity, indicating that a key had 
been used to open the drawer. 
The Dining Services employee 
said that there are at least 23 
keys to the registers, held by 
food vendors and the CMU Din­
ing Services Supervisor.
1/14 THEFT, 12:53 pm. A 
CMU student reported to cam­
pus police that between Janu­
ary 11 and 14, someone had re­
moved $1,590.00 from her back­
pack.
The student said that the 
backpack had been left unat­
tended several times during that 
period and as a result there was 
no way to determine when the 
money had been removed. The 
student had withdrawn the 
money from the bank in order to 
purchase a car.
On January 15, the student 
contacted CMU police again. The 
student found the money she had 
hiden . She had forgotten the
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, please contact The Tartan
location of the money.
1/15 THEFT, 8:21 am. A mem­
ber of a CMU service fraternity 
reported to campus police that 
between January 14 and 15, 
someone had removed $200.00 
from the fraternity’s cash box. 
The member had secured the 
money in the fraternity’s office 
on the previous night. He said 
that several people have key ac­
cess to the office.
CD TRADER
..the small store with the BIG selection 
New CD's at discount prices 
10,000 new and used CD's
January Sale! 
Three $7 or $8 CD’s 
only $20!
201 South Craig Street
Monday-Friday, 10 am-6 pm 
Saturday, 11 am-5 pm 
Sunday, noon-4 pm
phone: 687-6626 
fax: 934-5414
STUDY ABROAD 
THIS SUMMER!
IT COSTS LESS THAN YOU 
MIGHT THINK!
CHINA 
ENGLAND 
FRANCE 
THE NETHERLANDS 
ITALY 
MEXICO 
PUERTO RICO 
RUSSIA 
SWITZERLAND 
UKRAINE
Fouur-D-o
WWW.CDE.PSU.EDU/PSSEA/
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL
1-800-PSU-T0DAY (778-8632).
a continuing and distance education service of the colleges of Arts and 
Architecture, Health and Human Development, the Liberal Arts, and the 
Office of Education Abroad Programs
Penn State is an affirmative action, equal opportunity university. U.Ed.CED 97-0859cg

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University20 January 1997
Shopping period will solve 
registration problems
While CMU students have al­
ready jumped into classes that 
they committed to taking several 
months ago, students at some 
other universities, such as Yale 
and MIT, are in the midst of their 
“shopping period.”
At Yale, the shopping period re­
fers to the first two weeks of classes 
each semester. During those two 
weeks students can attend any 
class that is open to them in a sort 
of “audit” situation. Work done dur- 
ingthe shopping period counts only 
if the student remains in the class; 
the student is able to get a no­
pressure, unskewed overview of 
what the course and the professor 
will really be like.
Giving CMU students a taste of 
their classes before they are actu­
ally committed to it would solve 
quite a few problems concerning 
registration procedures and 
would make life easier for stu­
dents, professors, and The HUB.
Most importantly, such a sys­
tem would allow students to take 
classes that really complement 
their educational and professional 
goals. After required courses, 
many students are faced with the 
opportunity to take a number of 
elective courses, which are usu­
ally chosen from a list of courses 
approved by the student’s home 
department. However, the stu­
dent can only guess what the class 
Will be like. The undergraduate 
course catalog descriptions are 
: rarely accurate and don’t give a 
; good feel for the course and stu- 
| dents must rely on the hearsay of 
; others who have already taken 
the class. If students were able to 
; audit their classes before regis­
tering for them, they would be 
able to decide for themselves 
whether the elective was what 
they thought it would be and if 
they would really benefit from 
the work entailed.
In addition, a shopping period 
system would spare students the 
difficult registration period dur­
ing the end of each semester, when 
they are more concerned with 
their success in current courses 
then with deciding what to take 
in the following semester.
It is true that students may reg­
ister for a number of classes and 
then drop those they dislike dur­
ing the first few weeks of classes. 
However, this practice keeps some 
students out of classes they need 
in order to graduate, as space 
may be taken up by those who 
may later drop the course. This 
extra add/drop period also causes 
extra congestion in The already 
overtaxed HUB. If students were 
allowed a shopping period The 
HUB would see decreased traffic, 
as the flurry of add/drop paper 
work will be condensed from two 
registration periods to one (at the 
end of the shopping period.)
Although professors may lose a 
bit of productivity in the first few 
weeks, they will ultimately gain 
from this system by winding up 
with a class of students who are 
truly interested in the course and 
willing to do the work.
The shopping period system 
works, as is proven by other top 
universities that use it. It could 
solve many of Carnegie Mellon’s 
registration problems and make 
for satisfied students and profes­
sors.
On-line access to HUB 
finally arrives
I After years of waiting for CMU 
; to establish a way for students to 
; obtain information on-line, The 
| HUB has recently implemented a 
:Web site where virtually all as- 
' pects of a student’s academic and 
financial record are easily acces- 
; sible. While student enrollment 
; information was initially limited 
;to first-year students in certain 
| colleges, the Web site can now 
; access the records of all CMU 
students. Since departments such 
as the registrar, financial aid and 
: enrollment services combined 
'their offices to form The HUB,
; students have been forced to wait 
1 in inefficient lines in order to take 
j care of their enrollment needs.
! But with the implementation of 
; the Web site, frustrating andtime 
: consuming traffic at The HUB 
| has gone down considerably since 
; students only call upon HUB as- 
' sociates if they notice any dis- 
; crepancies in their accounts.
The web site is easily acces- 
; sible; all CMU students thatknow 
: how to access the World Wide 
Web, so they should be able to 
, keep track of any activity taking 
place in their student accounts or 
make sure that The HUB has 
; recognized the changes they’ve 
made to their schedules. Itis much 
easier to sit down at a computer 
and find out this kind of informa­
tion than to make a trip to the 
basement of Warner Hall where 
it’s possible to wait up to an hour 
or longer because of the shortage
Dramat fails in attempt at manual labor
“'Vi
---------—> n,Doug Howe
Over this break, 
whether it be considered 
Christmas, Hanukkah, 
Kwanzaa, Winter Sol­
stice, or Pagan Chicken
of HUB associates.
The on-line services of The HUB 
also make it easier to find out 
information when a student is 
studying abroad or even home on 
winter break. Instead of waiting 
for a letter of financial certifica­
tion, next semester’s class sched­
ule, or the current semester’s 
grades, students can find out 
about these things through the 
Web site. And students who are 
studying outside of the country 
can track their records no matter 
where they are instead of making 
long distance phone calls or wait­
ing until they arrive home.
While CMU has made a signifi­
cant effort to catch up technologi­
cally with its reputation, The HUB 
Web site has its glitches. Many 
students aren’t using the Web site 
because the lack of advertising on 
the part of The HUB; students are 
not aware of the services the Web 
site offers and how easy it is to 
access information that used to take 
weeks to receive. Students who do 
use the Web site often access incor­
rect records because information is 
not kept up-to-date.
Until the HUB devotes more 
staff and time to its the upkeep 
and development of its new Web 
site, it will not be an effective 
resource. Hopefully the success of 
The HUB’s Web site will lead to 
the on-line implementation of 
other services such as registra­
tion, a process that most students 
find taxing in its present form.
Day, I learned that I’ve lost all ability to interact with the 
outside world. Mind you, I can’t decide whether this is a 
positive outcome or not, so I keep my options open and leave 
that for you to decide.
The Hardware Store-y. My mother has arthritis and 
doesn’t get around easily. We have a ramp in front of our 
house so she doesn’t have to climb stairs.
And on that ramp, since we live inNew Jersey, where it gets 
cold and freezy just like it is here, there are little pieces of 
rounded wood acting as “speed bumps,” so it provides more 
safety during the winter, rather than turning the ramp into 
a ski jump.
These pieces of wood began to rot from long use, so I was 
sent to the local hardware store to purchase new ones, which 
is fine with me, since I’ve been in the house all day doing 
nothing but watching bad religious programming (as if there 
was any other kind of religious programming) and being 
driven utterly insane by my mother asking me if I was still 
hungry.
“No, mom, that turkey, stuffing, potatoes, carrot, cranberry 
sauce breakfast we had suits me just fine.”
“But, it’s been at least an hour since then, Doug.”
So I get to the store with a little piece of sample wood to 
show the lumber man.
Then I came to the realization that I know jack shit about 
what I’m actually doing. I don’t know how much I need, how 
much it costs, what the wood is called, what kind it is, if I need 
any special ID to order it, and should I have any shots? But 
I’m an actor, right? I can fake it.
The lumber guy asks me what I want, as I stand there with 
a fabricated manly glare in my eye. (Wearing a flannel shirt 
and my hat backwards helps the performance.) I look at him. 
I look at the wood. I look at him, and I point.
“Uh, I need this.” The guy buys this gesture, presumably
thinking I am a macho man of few words, and asks how mud 
I need.
“Oh, fifteen, sixteen, whatever it takes.” (Can you nan 
what movie that’s from? If so you get the weekly prize. Whicl 
of course means, I’m going to have to come up with one.)
“Okay, son, I’ll get that siding for you right away.” 
Siding. Finally, I know what to call it.
The lumber guy asks me if I want anything else. Of coma 
I feel stupid now, not being able to name it “siding,” so I sa; 
yes.
“I need some of that stuff you spread on the stuff tha 
freezes.”
Well, talk about freezing. I was so wigged out I couldn' 
think of the words: salt and ice. Three cheers for my collegi 
education.
“Um, rock salt?”
“Yeah, rock salt. Please.”
“Would you like the fifteen- or thirty-pound bag?”
Well, I really didn’t need any salt at all, but I couldn’t bad 
down now. So in my best gruffy, “I just killed innoceni 
animals in the woods with an uzi and I’m going to go horn 
now, drink lots of beer, and screw my wife” voice, I said, “Olj 
thirty-pound.” Case number one of my ineptitude in dealin( 
with the working world.
The Plumber. I got back into the “Burgh last Saturday, 
was the first of my three roommates to return to my apart 
ment. The long and short of it is, on the third floor in thi 
bathroom, right above my bedroom, a pipe burst in twi 
places.
Reality check. It’s 9pm on a Saturday night, my room ii 
turning into Niagara Falls, I can’t get in touch with mj 
landlord, and the only thing I know about plumbing is how k 
flush a toilet.
I’m freaking out, I call a plumber, I start turning knobs 
trying desperately to shut the pipes off. Doesn’t work. I gt 
outside to the basement door to try and shut off the mak 
water power. Now the only thing cool about the experience anc 
has kept me sane as I still have to sleep on the couch, is that 1
Please see BREAK, page:
Columnist provides forum for campus concerns
Michael Sperger
This newspaper and the 8 1/2 by 11 
News reach just about everyone at Car­
negie Mellon, but neither consistently 
succeeds in fostering an environment 
for honest discussion of issues relevant 
to the campus.
We suffer greatly for our inability to 
establish a center for public exchange.
Since the days of the Roman Em­
pire, when toga parties were an offi­
cial state function and not a form of This community cannot handle great 
collegiate debauchery, commu-
nities of all sizes have created 
public centers of discussion so 
that citizens could share ideas 
with each other.
In Scotland, the discussion 
place took the form of a big 
rock called a storr, and people 
would stand around the storr com­
plaining about their drafty kilts and 
critiquing each other’s caber tossing 
technique.
The Romans had the Forum, a good 
place to talk about important issues of 
the day, and also to watch some Chris­
tians get chased by lions.
Our word forum today recalls the 
same notion. It represents a healthy 
exchange on a public scale, brainstorm­
ing writ large. At Carnegie Mellon, 
the idea of a community forum merits 
attention because right now, we don’t 
have one.
... the idea of a community fo­
rum merits attention because 
right now, we don’t have one.
ideas, because we do not know what to 
do with them from beginning to end. We 
frequently forego useful public discus­
sion by whining to anyone who will 
listen about the problems we face here.
Time and again we hear about how 
Carnegie Mellon students are great 
problem solvers, learning their skills 
from faculty and staff who have mas­
tered the art. But time and again we 
have seen that our community provides 
little support for problem-solving ideas. 
We prefer whining about our troubles to 
addressing them.
When we do move past whining, we do 
Consider the problem of trying to not follow through effectively on our 
effectively survey everyone in this com- scheming. And when we do occasionally 
munity. Students, faculty, and staff try to follow through, we are stymied by 
approach the campus from every pos- red tape and resistance from fellow mem­
bers of our community, the very people 
who ought to be helping our ideas grow 
and flourish.
There is hope, and there is potential. 
Great ideas haven’t succeeded often 
here, but they can and will. Consider
sible direction. There exists no com­
mon entrance to the campus.
With colleges and activities decen­
tralized, there exists no single place 
through which every community mem­
ber must pass in a day.
the Great Ideas program run by Stu­
dent Affairs this past semester and 
the fall semester the year before. Staff 
members from the division asked stu­
dents, faculty, and staff to give them 
suggestions for improving the Carn­
egie Mellon community, swapping 
musings and crazy schemes for Snick­
ers bars.
________ The program bears enor­
mous potential to open con­
tact between administra­
tors with the power to make 
changes and community 
members suggesting them.
This year, Student Affairs 
has not even published the 
list of suggestions yet. Last year, at 
least, they posted the complete list to 
the official.cmu-news bboard for pub­
lic review.
Both years lacked the crucial ele­
ments for nurturing great ideas: fol­
low-through, and public demonstra­
tion of results. The best brainstorm in 
the world does Carnegie Mellon no 
good if it lies scribbled on a comment 
card at the bottom of someone’s desk.
Michael Sperger is a junior profes­
sional writing major currently on the 
kamikaze graduation plan. Each week 
he will be focusing on a different as­
pect of community life at CMU. Next 
week's column will be on relaxing at 
Carnegie Mellon. Michael wishes for 
you to answer this: if you could do 
anything to make people relax and you 
had unlimited resources to make 
changes, what would you do? Send 
your suggestions to him by noon Thurs- j 
day at sperg+forum@andrew.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 19977
Writer recounts 
holiday horrors
break, from page 6
to break a door down. I can’t get into the 
basement, so I kick the door open.
Finally I get to do something manly. But of 
course, there’s no light down there and Einstein 
here doesn’t own a flashlight. So I’m running 
around a dark basement, banging my head into 
walls like some Marx Brothers routine attempt-
Lg to turn off valves.
No avail. Finally the plumber comes and fixes 
everything and saves my butt.
Surprisingly, he was the nicest man I’ve ever 
met, especially for a plumber. No crack, no 
smoking, no extra charge. He even wished me 
luck for my future. If you’re ever in a bind call 
Eric at Miller Plumbing. My point being, I can’t 
;do crap.
“So I'm running around a 
dark basement banging 
my head into walls like 
some Marx Brothers rou­
tine ...”
I can be a highfalutin intellectual talking 
about the vast differences between Edwardian 
and Victorian theater and why Shakespeare 
should have been a hairdresser, but I can’t fix a 
pipe, a hole in a wall, a car, a kitchen appliance, 
or a broken heart. (Just kidding, I don’t know 
where that came from, broken heart—what a 
freak I am.)
The Electronic Age has made me a veritable 
idiot. So please, please, whatever you do, find 
me talented, gifted, smart, and funny, so I can 
makes lots of money making movies and TV 
shows about nothing, in order for me to pay 
people money to do things that I can’t do.
Screw this, I’m going to Vermont to be a 
farmer.
Doug Howe is a senior drama student. He 
plans to have his own mechanic, cook, and car 
repairman in the future. He welcomes any re­
sponsible replies to his column.
Writer finds goodness in greed
r James Stepanek
Recently, I was having a discussion 
with someone about rich people. The 
person I spoke with had the opinion 
that there are some people who have 
or make too much money.
She then went on to state that 
people shouldn’t be so focused on 
making money, but rather on doing 
whatever it is they do best. I must 
admit that at the time I was a little 
dumbfounded since I was talking to 
a “conservative,” and I generally 
expect a little common sense from 
such people. Heck, she even went 
on to bash people she branded as 
greedy; that is one of the most ri­
diculous things I’ve ever heard.
Now mind you, greed gets all the 
bad press in the world, and perceiv­
ing it as a bad thing is pretty com­
mon. This does not, however, mean 
that it actually is a bad thing.
I suppose I may be butting heads 
with common perceptions pretty 
strongly here by using the word 
“greed,” but let’s face it: Greed 
just means self-interest in finan­
cial matters. Most people associate 
greed with screwing people over for 
money; this is simply not the case.
One can be greedy and principled. 
Now if money comes before prin­
ciple (and law), then there is a prob­
lem. However, such cases should 
not impugn the more common situ­
ation of those who simply want to 
make money so that they and their 
families are comfortable.
It should not even reflect on the 
cases of people trying to make huge 
amounts of money, since that is their 
business, not ours (as long as they 
follow the rules).
You are probably dismissing my 
defense of greed as a conservative 
rant. Okay, I’ll give you the gist of 
the matter: Look around you. Look 
at all the items which make your 
life more comfortable, bearable, and
enjoyable. They are all products of 
greed.
Greed made people plant crops 
instead of continuing as hunter 
gatherers.
Greed improved agriculture so 
that people could specialize in other 
professions.
Greed gave us TVs, computers,
Rebecca Madden/ Tartan Art Staff
automobiles, and all the other con­
sumer goods which we accept as 
our due.
Without someone who wanted to 
make money for himself, these 
things would not exist. Why do you 
think the Soviet Union was so tech­
nically backward?
They stomped out entrepreneur­
ial people who wanted to make 
money; so much for invention and 
progress. It's people working to 
make money for themselves (i.e. 
greedy people), who made this into 
a successful nation.
Greed is what makes the free 
market work, and the free market 
has proved to be, by far, the most 
successful means by which an 
economy can be run.
People, engaging in transactions 
based on their self-interest, will
make sure that resources and capi­
tal are allocated in the most effec­
tive means possible. This is truly 
amazing: an organized form of chaos 
leads to the best outcomes.
Now many of you are probably 
sympathetic to the notion that we 
should just do the work which we 
feel we’re best at doing. Let me 
take a little time here to 
explain why that’s errone­
ous. You should do the 
work which will give some­
one cause to pay you a good 
salary.
If this happens to be 
something you like, then 
that’s all the better. For 
example, the person whom 
I had been talking to said 
she was going to write a 
book because she felt she’d 
be good at it. Okay, one 
can be of that opinion, 
there's nothing wrong with 
that.
However, just because 
you think you’d write a 
good book doesn’t mean 
what you’d produce would 
actually be worthwhile 
and make you money to 
live on. That’s up to the free market 
(in the form of publishers and con­
sumers) to determine.
One of the greatest writers in the 
English language, William 
Shakespeare, well understood this, 
and his efforts were based on enter­
taining those who would pay for it. 
You see greed is a great motivator. 
Yes, there are others, many of which 
can be even more powerful (eg. re­
ligion), but few have ever managed 
to do as much good for the world.
If you compare the anti-greed 
people (communists) with the prod­
ucts of capitalism; well, you don’t 
have an argument.
James Stepanek is a Ph.D. candi­
date in material science engineering. 
He welcomes any responsible replies 
to his column.
Writer attacks the Holocaust Revisionism movement
Editor's Notebook
[The Editor’s Notebook pre­
sents the individual opinions 
of the author only, and not 
necessarily the opinions of 
The Tartan or the Editorial 
Board.]
Last year at Northwestern 
University in Evanston, 111. a 
lecture to be given by a Holo­
caust Revisionist was can­
celed. The incedent illus­
trates a problem that plagues 
colleges and universities 
across the nation: whether or 
not these insitutions are re­
stricting free speech.
In order to understand the 
issue completely, it is neces-
sary to examine the motives of 
Holocaust Revisionism. Essen­
tially, it seeks to “prove” cer­
tain things about the Holocaust: 
The Nazis did not hold a policy 
of mass-killing of Jews; gas 
chambers were never used; six 
million Jews killed is an exag­
gerated figure.
What is the purpose of try­
ing to lessen the emotional and 
historical impact of the most 
tragic event of the twentieth 
century?
The Revisionists’ goal is sim­
ply to undermine the reality 
of the Holocaust in an effort to 
satisfy their own anti-Semitic 
sentiments. Yet in research­
ing the “truth,” the Holocaust 
Revisionists ignore a valuable 
primary source—the Holo­
caust survivor.
Also, to deny the absence of 
a mass-murder policy when 
the Nazis even had a formal 
name for it (the “T-4 program”) 
is ludicrous.
There is plenty of other evi­
dence in place to withstand 
the Revisionist attack, such 
as the existing death camps, 
photos, records, and accounts
ties where their views have been 
disseminated through various 
media sources.
It is important that cam­
puses do not assist in circu-
"Revisionists prey on college stu­
dents who are chronologically re­
moved from the Holocaust and thus 
more susceptible to buy into their 
views. ”
at the Nuremberg Trials.
Holocaust Revisionists are 
targeting campuses nation­
wide to spread their propa­
ganda. Revisionists prey on 
college students who are chro­
nologically removed from the 
Holocaust and thus more sus­
ceptible to buy into their 
views.
The Web site even champions 
a list of colleges and universi-
lating this nonsense since it 
cannot possibly benefit soci­
ety. Some will argue that ev­
erything will offend someone, 
and so the Revisionists might 
as well be allowed exposure. 
That is the wrong approach in 
this case.
Guns, like racism and anti- 
Semitism, are harmful to so­
ciety, and so we regulate and 
restrict them even though the
Second Amendment is very 
clear. Choosing not to give ex­
posure to Revisionists is not 
shutting the door on free 
speech. These people cer­
tainly have the right to say 
what they like.
But much of what they 
choose to say is illusory, and 
a college or university should 
not assist the spread of erro­
neous information. I sincerely 
hope that other campuses will 
be aware of the repercussions 
of promoting Revisionist 
rhetoric.
It is important to be sensi­
tive to the content of what is 
presented, and in this case, 
the content is often ignored 
in favor of misconstrued First 
Amendment righteousness.
Jason Siegendorf is a jun­
ior ECE major and Photo Staff 
Manager. He welcomes any re­
sponsible replies to his col­
umn.
With classes still in ses­
sion on this holiday, we 
asked students: What are 
you doing to celebrate 
Martin Luther King Day?
Compiled by: Brooke Goldner and 
Anthony Chao
Bharat Bhat
Freshman
ECE
“I’m going to follow the old 
traditions. I’m going to sacrafice 
my plants to the gods.”
Nicole Ayale 
Freshman 
H&SS undecided
“I think its a day that every­
one — black, white, Hispanic, 
etc. — needs to stop and think 
about a man who fought for a 
universal cause in a non-violent 
way.”
Peter Kioko 
Sophomore 
ECE
“Absolutely nothing. I’ve 
heard of him, but I’m not sure 
who he is. I’m not from around 
here.”
Anthony Chao/Photo Editor
Jason Reisman 
Junior
Cognitive Science
“We should protest. We should 
not go to classes that day! I sug­
gest a strike!”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor..............1-PingU
Business Manager.... Amit Sheth
News Editor.....................Ena Khan
Forum Co-Editor................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Forum Co-Editor...........Alex Lewin
Sports Editor...........Chris Cannon
Features Editor......Becky Cowser
Diversions Editor..........Tracy Odell
CaiendarEditor......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Dsgn. Eds Laura Varrachl
.........................Paulina Berczynskl
Dossier Lit. Ed............Kelly Bowles
.................................Kevin Meehan
Art Editor......................Julee White
Photo Editor...........Anthony Chao
Production Co-Mgrs. Kevin Babbitt
............................Kenneth Kraemer
Advertising Mgr............Steven Hsu
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager.......Winter Mason
Asst. News Editor... Ellen Beldner
Asst. Features Editor.....Anne Ray
Photo Staff Mgr .Jason Siegendorf
Darkroom Mgr.....Diana Bartolotta
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
John Biggs, Amit Kar, Andrew 
McDermott, Jay Mlolla, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Chlntan Shah, Jim 
Snyder, Gabrien Symons
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Matt Ball, Jessica Strelltz, Susan
Watson
Staffwriters 
Chris Adukaitls, Andre Archie, Ja­
son Andracki, Melissa Batt, Vlneet 
Chander, Steve Charnoubi, Matt 
Cuccaro, Ryan Donovan, Dave 
Elman, Rebecca Fribush, Chuck 
Fryman, Dan Goldwasser, Tom 
Harper, Adam Klivans, Wladimir 
Labeikovsky, Trevor Meyerowitz, 
Mikl Muchhala, Dizzy Murphy, Jon 
Orris, Danielle Plerratti, Andy 
Pueschel, Dan Rosenberg, Jaya 
Saxena, Andrew Seymour, Betty 
Shea, Reena Singhai, Ronak 
Slnghal, Amanda Spear, Nathan 
Stelnweld, James Stepanek, Meena 
Vagnler, Andrew Wang, Bradley 
Zimmerman
Comics
Nick Casclato, David Wlngrove
Photo
Diana Bartolotta, Anukul Kapoor, 
Barry Langer, Made] Matyjas, 
LIsetteMlller-Dlxon, Maria Glmenez
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bal, Amy Crlstomo, 
Ellas Fallon, Colleen Manning, Paul 
Moore
Production 
William Holtz, Steven Chal, Jennifer 
Li, Izzit Raheem, Diana Rutherford, 
Alison Scudiere
Copy
Mimi Cheng, Helena McGahagan, 
Victor Ortega, Reena Singhai
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, 
Avinash Jain
Junior Staff 
Andre Archie, Neil Babra, James 
Carney, Nicholas Casclato, Vineet 
Chander, Max Chlttister, Joy 
Ferguson, Rhonda Gillespie, Pratish 
Haladay, Eric Holowka, Will Isenhour, 
Kevin Kroen, Ken Kwalik, Masha 
Kovarsky, Tom Lin, Diado Mack, 
Rebecca Madden, Greg Marcks, Ken 
Namkung, JoAnna Phillips, Andy 
Pueschel, Jessica Rhodes, Jason 
Scharfman, Nlel Shapcott, Scott 
Shettl, Julie Wilson, David Wlngrove, 
Anthony Yu
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no'cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tar­
tan editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to- 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not neces­
sarily, members of the University commu-- 
nity. A letter Intended for publication must 
be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names 
may be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer than 500 
words. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter. Copyright © 
1996 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: University Center Room 314 
Phone: 412/268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carn­
egie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded in part by your Activi­
ties Fee. All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #:
0890-3107. The Tartan is a 
member of the Associated 
Press.ÂP

---------------------------------------------------

Do You Have a Fever?
Do you have a fever from a flu or cold? Are you
between 1 8 and 40 years of age? You may be eligible to partici­
pate in a research study to evaluate the fever-lowering ability of a 
hfiew drug.
Free medical examination! 
Earn up to $150.00!
Do not take any medication 
for your cold or flu!
"’You will be required to make 2 - 3 visits 
to our facility.
j,0ral temperatures will be measured every 
^0 minutes for 6 hours after you receive a 
"single dose of the study medication. Bloodrro i„and urine samples will be obtained at each
-¡visit.
If you are otherwise healthy and would 
.•[¡.ke to participate, then call our "Fever
""Study Recruiter" at (41 2) 363-3300
for further details.
lfll
Pharmaceutical Research Services
5900 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
Principal Investigator: Robert A. Cohen, D.O.
Ì0uke ®mt>eriitp
School of Engineering
The School of Engineering at Duke University is seeking 
well-qualified candidates for graduate studies in engineering 
leading to M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. The school has four 
departments: Biomedical Engineering, Civil & Environmen­
tal Engineering, Electrical & Computer Engineering, and 
Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science. Currently, 
students at Duke are involved in a wide range of funded 
research topics including: ultrasound, radar signal processing, antenna design, parallel 
and distributed computer systems, active control, fluid mechanics, computational fluid 
and solid mechanics, geomechanics, transportation and systems engineering, speech 
analysis, thermodynamics and heat transfer, water resources, biomaterials and biome­
chanics, turbomachinery, nonlinear dynamics and chaos ocean physics and acoustics, 
materials science, aerodynamics and acoustics, aeroelasticity, signal processing, digital 
and medical imaging, biofluid mechanics, semiconductor materials, medical 
informatics, environmental engineering, structural engineering, cardiovascular me­
chanics, computer architecture, and engineering mechanics. Graduate Research Assis- 
tantships are available.
More information is available on our World Wide Web site, http://www.egr.duke.edu. 
For answers to specific questions regarding admission and financial aid, contact one of 
the directors of graduate studies:
Prof. Gregg E. Trahey, Biomedical Engineering, get@egr.duke.edu.
Prof. Loren W. Nolte, Electrical & Computer Engineering, lwn@ee.duke.edu 
Prof. James F. Wilson, Civil & Environmental Engineering, jfw@egr.duke.edu 
Prof. Charles M. Harman, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science, 
cmh@egr.duke.edu.
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences (PGSS)
Undergraduate summer employment at Carnegie Mellon University is available with 
the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five-week 
summer school for extremely talented high school students from Pennsylvania. 
Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments are available in the areas of biology, 
chemistry, physics, computer science and mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the start of the program. 
Preference will be given to applicants with outstanding academic records. You will 
be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory counselor and to live in the same 
dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, 
provide tutorial help in the academic program, and conduct program and social 
activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1200-$1600 
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board.
PGSS is in session from June 29 to August 2.
Counselor duties begin June 25, end August 2.
Applications are available in Mellon Institute 271. 
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, Ext. 268-6669 or e-mail 
rensko+@ andrew.cmu.edu. 
Application Deadline: March 17,1997.
SHIPPINGFAXCOPIESSTAMPS
UPS AUTHORIZED SHIPPING OUTLET
MAIL BOXES ETC
1 UPS — We specialize in packaging & shipping computers worldwide 
1 International moving and crating
1 Private mailbox rentals — Receive UPS & FedEx packages 
1 Photocopying — As low as 30 per copy 
1 Instant passport photos 
¦ Fax service: (412) 687-6136
414 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes Ave. & Carnegie Museum) 687-6100
ßj[MAILBOXESOVERNIGHTOFFICESUPPLIESPACKINGSUPPLIES
Are you at risk for diabetes?
T
he Diabetes Prevention Program at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
is offering free screenings to people who are at risk for developing diabetes. You may be at risk 
if you:
• are over age 35
• are overweight
• have a family history of diabetes or developed diabetes during pregnancy
If this screening shows you have high blood sugar, you will be offered an opportunity to 
participate in a research study to test several approaches to preventing diabetes. To schedule 
a free screening, call the Diabetes Prevention Program at 383-2194.
dvespBne­l atce­­nGwBby 
fpmeiUh Wpv­pB
H&SS and MCS students
To JOB FAIR ’97
Job Fair '97 features 20 employers from the profit and non­
profit sectors.
University Center Gymnasium J
Thursday, February 6, 1997 M \
10:00am-4:00pm
The Career Center Is offering sessions to help students pre­
pare for the event.
For more information, updates, employer profiles, Career 
Center hours, etc., look for our WWW site at 
http://hss.cmu.edu/jobfair
JOB FAIR '97 is sponsored by the College of Humanities and Social Sciences and 
the Mellon College of Science in cooperation with the Career Center.
Reproductive Hormones & Stress
Healthy women between the 
ages of 18 and 35 are 
needed for a study at Magee- 
Womens Hospital in Pitts­
burgh, PA. Women with and 
without regular periods 
(menstrual cycles) will be in- 
\| eluded. Qualified women may receive free
testing WED LIVV RG ATSOGEYWUGD. For more infor­
mation please call (412) 641-1602.
Magee-Womens Hospital
-------- m
For a lifetime.
Internet Address: http://www.magee.edu

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan * Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 19979
-S
nterest in volleyball team jecomes alive on campus
OLLEYBALL, from page 12
,f time and effort in this year. We 
ictually have a coach.”
The team’s coach is David Jensen 
;vho has considerable competitive ex­
perience having played club volley- 
jall at the inter-collegiate level for the 
University of Minnesota. Jensen is 
volunteering his services and is not 
affiliated with CMU in any other way.
Gordon Cheng, a junior computer 
science major and another member of 
the competing club team, considers this 
» be a pivotal year as far as volleyball 
jt CMU is concerned. “Most people 
jon’t know that volleyball [at CMU] 
¿sts. If this year doesn’t go well, then 
its going to flop — we’d better do well, 
go, if people want to join the club, that’s 
¿reat, especially if you’re a freshman or 
sophomore,” he said.
Although the team is not too famil­
iar with the quality of competition 
they will be facing, Schneider is very 
aware of the approach they will be 
taking. “Physically, we’re a smaller 
team [than the other teams in the 
competition!. We’ll just have to play 
more defensive volleyball.” Cheng also 
expects CMLPs team to be competi­
tive. “This is my first year but I’m 
assuming there won’t be too much [of 
a competitive difference] between the 
teams,” he said.
Practices are held in the UC, 
onWedn.esdays. and Fridays at 6 pm, 
and on Sundays at 10 pm. There are 
currently 35 active members, and 
about 18 members who will compete 
in the inter-collegiate games but the 
club is, “always accepting new mem­
bers,” according to Schneider.
Distance runners continue to impress 
as Tartan indoor track season begins
aouye csttoCnDtt rgioAlto
Jan 25th at CCAC w/ St. Vincent
Feb 1st at 1UP w/ CAL
Feb 8 -9 Maryland Invitational
at University of Maryland 
Feb 14th at St. Vincent 
Feb 16th GENEVA 
Feb 22nd IUP w/ PSU-BEAVER 
Feb 28th at Robert Morris w/ CAL 
March 2nd at PSU-Beaver w/ Geneva 
March 15th CCAC 
March 16th ROBERT MORRIS 
April 5- 6 Western PA Conference Finals 
at Indiana University of PA.
April 12-13 EIVA Finals at University of Maryland 
April 16-19 Collegiate Club National Championships 
at University of Arizona
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
“It was a rough, humbling experience,” 
women’s head coach Dario Donatelli said, 
describing Carnegie Mellon’s first in­
door track meet of the year. The men’s 
and women’s track teams traveled about 
100 miles to Kent State University last 
Saturday. Other competitive teams at 
the meet included West Virginia Uni­
versity, the University of Pittsburgh, 
and Akron.
“It’s a little tough because those guys 
started in December,” Donatelli said. 
However, the coach was pleased with 
how his top runners performed.
“It felt good to be back in competetion,” 
said junior hurdler Jeff Jones, “but I 
definitely felt rusty.” Jones, the only 
hurdler the men took to the meet, is 
trying to return to form. He last ran at 
the University Athletic Association Out­
door Championships two years ago. 
“I hit a lot of hurdles, obviously,” he said.
Jones hopes to help the team out in the 
400 meters. After racing against fast 
opponents at Kent State he said: “It was 
hard to get my legs moving fast again, 
but it was a good experience.”
Sophomore Alice Chong set an indoor 
record for Carnegie Mellon in throwing 
the 35 lb weight. Her distance of 35 feet, 
10 inches should compare well against 
conference throwers.
“Right now it’s probably top five,” 
Coach Donatelli said of the mark. Since 
it’s still early in the season, and competi­
tors’ performances haven’t made it 
around the conference yet, it was hard 
for the coach to speculate.
The women look to field a young, but 
experienced team. “It’s hard to tell,” said 
junior Kerry Riley on evaluating the 
team, “there’s a lot of freshmen on it.”
“I think that we have a lot more 
strengths s'printing-wise,” Riley said. 
Riley indicated that the women’s 
sprinting squad is a young group. The 
team features two freshmen, two sopho­
mores, in addition to one junior. Al­
though the distance runners for the 
women mostly underclassmen they are 
also experienced.
According to former All-American and
current women’s assistant coach Missy 
Baustert, sophomores Maureen 
McGranaghan and Margaret Powers did 
well at UAA last year. The two also 
performed well at the meet.
“Margaret Powers ran very well,” 
Baustert said. The assistant coach said 
that Carnegie Mellon’s women have “... 
one of the best group of distance runners 
in the UAA.”
Powers lowered her personal record 
to 5:15 in the mile with a third place 
finish. McGranaghan and freshman 
teammate Andrea Byrnes were right 
behind in 5:28 and 5:33 respectively. 
McGranaghan came in second among 
collegiate runners in the 3000 with a 
time of 10:36.1.
“I think the girls trained hard over 
break and that’s good,” she said, but 
wouldn’t speculate on their chances in 
the conference championship this early 
in the season. “It’s hard to say right now, 
they’re still getting in shape.”
The long distance runners on the men’s 
side are looking to improve over a suc­
cessful cross country season. The cross 
country team finished 16th nationally. 
Student/athletes making the jump to 
shorter distances include senior Ron 
Polcawich, sophomore Josh Donner, 
sophomore Kristo Kriechbaum, and 
freshman Bryan Meyer. Donner is opti­
mistic that the team will fare well.
“[There is a] lot of talent on this team, 
a lot of potential, good work ethic, good 
coaching,” said Donner.
Donner, senior Seb Ziesler (another 
cross country runner), and Meyer all fin­
ished under 9:17 in the 3000 in what was 
the best showing for the men of the day.
“We haven’t really had a chance to 
practice many of the field events,” men’s 
head Coach Meckley said. The team 
didn’t take any pole vaulters. “I hate; to 
take somebody this early, it can get. a 
little dangerous.”
Junior high jumper Peter Hunt, who 
missed his opening height of 6’ 4” at the. 
meets, hopes improve on the high mark’s , 
he reached during the brief periods-ihat 
he was healthy last season. Freshman- 
Todd Kozuki missed opening heightrin 
the event, but Meckley was please with 
the 19 foot performance Kozuki put up 
in the long jump.
“The optimist in me says we can ac­
complish a lot,” Meckley said of the men’s 
prospects. “The pessimist in me makes 
me shudder at what I say.”
The cold weather has influenced the 
team’s practicing schedules, but the team 
hopes to improve their conditioning be­
fore the Indoor UAA Championships 
February 28 through March 1. Brandeis 
Universitywill host the even this year. 
“It’s been hard to get outside,” assistant 
coach Baustert said.
Chris Cannon/ Tartan Sports Editor 
A Tartan runner competes with division one opponents last Saturday.
Slues choose star player over head coach
[EENAN, from page 12
le bench, but also the job behind 
le scenes.
Keenan acclimated quickly to 
(is new post, immediately and 
¡onstantly shuffling players on 
he roster. One of the earliest and 
lost detrimental trades was the 
cquisition of young defenseman 
ihris Pronger from the Hartford 
Whalers, for veteran power-for- 
yard Brendan Shanahan. A St. 
liOuis fan favorite, as well as 
iull’s, Shanhan’s departure 
ipened everyone’s eyes to just 
low erratic Keenan could be. 
JThe Blues became a revolving 
oor. All-Star goaltender Curtis 
«eph, along with Petr Nedved, 
sa Tikkannen, and Craig 
itrney soon found themselves in 
_ cities. Keenan brought in 
Sture Hall-of-Famers Wayne 
$retzky and Dale Hawerchuk, as 
tall as Craig MacTavish, only to 
ose each within a year of signing. 
Not every move was a disas- 
er. He brought in Pierre 
'urgeon and Hull finally had a 
etup man for the first time 
jince Adam Oates had left for 
Boston. But when forwards 
ieoff Courtnall, Joe Murphy, 
nd Brian Noonan each signed 
•hree-year deals, unfortu­
nately at a much higher 
(rice than they were 
vorth, (Courtnall for $6.6 
niUion; Murphy, $10 mil- 
ion; Noonan, $2.8 million)
Qore heads shook in dis- 
•elief. Murphy, after only 
scoring 22 goals the sea­
son before, was supposedly 
bought in to replace 
Gretzky. Replace Gretzky? 
Then there were the con- 
itant rumors of bad blood 
ween Brett Hull and 
oach/GM Keenan. When- 
!ver the Blues would slump,
-he media would report on 
Routing matches at prac­
tices between the coach and 
his disgruntled star, 
^eenan, in an assertion of 
}ower, stripped the 50 goal 
f corer of his captaincy dur­
ing the 1995-96 season.
“It doesn’t matter who wears 
the ‘C.’ Everyone knows who the 
real captain of this team is,” Hull 
was quoted as saying in response 
to Keenan’s decision.
In the end, the two just couldn’t 
agree. Someone had to go. When 
Hull released a list of teams that 
he would consider being traded 
to last November, the Blues knew 
that they had to act fast or they 
would lose the cornerstone of 
their organization.
“They can’t do a thing,” said the 
Bruins Harry Sinden after the 
Murphy signing. And when 
Sinden, arguably the worst GM 
in NHL history, is commenting 
on how bad of a manager you are, 
there needs to be a change. Dur­
ing last week’s interview on 
ESPN’s “Up Close,” Hull men­
tioned that he thought that 
Keenan would still have been 
coach of the Blues today had he 
not also performed GM duties. 
Hull was right. Keenan should 
not have been general manager. 
He is a coach, and a damn good 
one at that. But just because you 
can coach talent does not mean 
you can evaluate it.
Keenan was too excited about 
the power of having a team to
mold, build, and lead to a cham­
pionship. That was what the 
Blues thought that they wanted 
from him. That is what he does. 
But when given the power to 
trade, he was deadly. His caustic 
coaching style did not lend itself 
well to the general manager’s 
position. Keenan didn’t think 
about team chemistry, a key ele­
ment to stability and success, and 
it showed in the biting, wild 
changes that he made to the club. 
He learned the hard way that you 
do not just throw together a bunch 
of good players to win a champi­
onship. You need to criticize as 
well as support, not make moves 
that alienate your fans and your 
star players, and never ever ever 
criticize the Great One for “inef­
fective play,” even if he is playing 
shuffleboard.
Chris Adukaitis is a senior civil 
and environmental engineering 
major who hopes the Blues will 
finally be good again now that 
Keenan is finally gone.
Jessica Strelitz is a junior pro­
fessional writing major who loves 
it when guys throw their sticks at 
her during hockey practice and 
say “Fix this, ifs not working right ”
Ken Namkung/ Tartan Junior Staff
People are talking about Bell Atlantic
"I'd read about Bell Atlantic in prominent newspapers and magazines, 
and then I saw several posters on campus that they were coming to Georgia 
Tech to interview.
Right from the start, I knew that I’d be working with one of the most 
dynamic and ambitious corporations in the world. The opportunities to 
grow and move within the company were unlimited. Bell Atlantic -would 
be great for my career for a long time to come.
One of the most important criteria for me in choosing Bell Atlantic was its 
support for continuing education. Within ?nonths of beginning my job, I 
enrolled in an International Business Program at Georgetown University.
At Bell Atlantic, an employee is not only free to pursue further studies but 
is actively encouraged, and then recognized for it. —
I’ve had many opportunities to discuss both simple and complex issues with 
people from many departments in both one-on-one settings and in team -
environments— even with company Vice Presidents. It was great to see -
that a new college hire could feel at ease to air his views freely to senior 
executives.
Communication is what it’s all about here. Bell Atlantic plays an important role in providing the infrastructure 1
and services for people to communicate ivorldwide. It enables both personal and business communication, via voice, data 1 j 
and video media. It is therefore, the heart of communication.’'
Marcliff Fountains Morvan State University, Class of ‘95
*
If you are a highly-motivated, success-oriented individual completing a degree in Computer Science or 
related area, we have challenges in such diverse areas as:
• Client/Server Systems
• Object-Oriented Design and Languages
• Open Systems Architecture
• Advanced Software Engineering Tools
Our ability to attract and retain top technical talent is the driving force behind our high-perfomance 
teams.We offer competitive salaries, and our benefits package is in the "Top 10” in the country 
according to Money^Magazine. Please send jtour resume to: Bell Atlantic, 13100 Columbia Pike, ( 
Room B-2-7, Silver Spring, MD 20904, Attn. GN/CM Email: isstaffing.entry@bell-atl.com
For an update on other available positions, call our JOB LINE atl-8üO-WORK-4-BA.
Bell Atlantic is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
PLEASE CONTACT YOUR SCHOOL 
CAREER CENTElR FOR MORE DETAILS:
Information Session: JAN. 27, 1997 • 6:00-8:00 pm 
Interview Sessions: JAN. 28-29, 1997
Visit our Home Page on the Internet at http://www.bcll-atl.com/
@ Bell Atlantic
THE HEARJ OF COMMUNICATION®

---------------------------------------------------

Club Hockey team gets back on track, improves
HOCKEY, from page 12
them to head in deep toward the net. Firing from 
the blue line, the puck slipped under the RMC 
goaltender putting CMU up 2-1. A minute later, 
going for a line change, starting goalie freshman 
Si) Min cleared the puck to returning captain 
Roger Maddalena who found Buck heading up the 
right-hand side of the ice. He skated ‘till he was 
almost at an impossible angle with the net and 
drew out the goalie to put the puck up and in, 
¿etting CMU’s lead to 3-1.
, On the next shift, CMU’s second line followed 
suit with junior defenseman Dave Mitzel send­
ing the puck into the zone and getting the shot on 
n^t, kicked out by the RMC tender and kept in 
play by senior Relja Ivanovic who found Ardire 
through the chaos in front of RMC’s net. Ardire, 
\Mio had been off skates for 10 months before the 
pnght’s game, scored his second of the night at 
ii.3'6, setting the score at 4-1. The third line 
quickly jumped to the ice and Mitzel, still skat-
ing out his defensive shift, capitalized on the 
great stickwork of freshman Rio Ota and return­
ing sophomore Andy Oxnard, scoringwhatturned 
out to be the game winner with a fantastic bounce 
off the back of the RMC goaltender’s right pad. 
Oxnard attributed his play to the increased com­
munication on the ice between him and his de­
fensive partner, grad-student assistant captain 
Blair Echols.
Eight second later, the second line returned 
with Fitzgerald and Ardire centering the puck 
from around the back of the net, directly onto 
Ivanovic’s stick to solidify CMU’s lead to 6-1. 
Adding to the comfortable lead was the aggressive 
defensive work of Echols and junior Paul Voulgaris, 
who slammed their way through RMC pressure to 
free the puck for the CMU offense. Adding to the 
defensive excitement was Min’s adeptness with a 
glove save on a RMC breakaway and heads-up 
play by rookies Matt Williams, P.J. Grzywacz, 
and Ota. The second period, which ended with a
6-2 CMU lead and five goals on 15 shots, was the 
epitome of a team effort.
The team knew that they had to hold the pres­
sure in the third. RMC was visibly upset when they 
retook the ice and their passion turned to scoring. 
CMU bit right back with Echols getting the puck to 
Ivanovic and Ivanovic getting his own rebound to 
score. Frustrated, RMC began to take runs at the 
smarter CMU squad who simply continued to stall 
the RMC effort. Voulgaris continued his highly 
defensive-minded game and Ardire added his ef­
forts to shut down the last minute RMC flurry of 
activity and end the game in a 7^1 CMU victory. 
Rookie goaltender Min had 18 saves in the win, 
CMU’s second victory they’ve notched over RMC 
this season.
Commented coach Fred Maddalena, “It’s great to 
be back playing again. RMC is much improved, and 
they played a tight game. We had some times that 
we played really well and others we were flat.”
When asked about the triumphant return of 
Ardire (three points), Maddalena (one point), and 
Oxnard (one point) he said, “ We had Roger and 
Andy come back from injury and they look good. 
And we had Ray come back from football and he 
looked, well, like a linebacker.”
Saturday night’s game was all about discipline. 
New York University was determined to avenge 
their first half of the season loss to CMU at home. 
They had made the eight-hour trip to Pittsburgh 
after getting thumped by Central Connecticut State 
the night before 8-0. But with only two full lines 
to CMU’s full four, they were outmatched and 
outplayed throughout while CMU showed the signs 
of championship contender.
Coach Maddalena kept the shifts short, allowing 
the players to be better rested and mentally pre­
pared to make good plays throughout the short­
ened shift.
CMUs first line scored late in the first period with 
Maddalena and Adukaitis controlling the play and 
setting Buck. His goal added to their dominance as 
a.unit, having the majority of shots in the game 
including several breakaways. The first period was 
quiet and quick and ended with 17 CMU shots to 
five NYU attempts, with a score of 1-0.
CMU capitalized on their passing and setting 
skills in the second period, creat­
ing several important plays, only 
to be stoned by the swift NYU 
goalkeeper. A quick goal by NYU 
tied the score at 1-1. Starting 
CMU tender Min faced a hand- 
full of hard shots in close.
“Tonight’s game was the tough­
est kind of game because your 
team is dominating and you need 
to make timely saves on fewer 
shots.” He got defensive help from 
Grzywacz, who controlled the 
puck behind the net and made 
smart moves to get the puck to 
Ardire and clear the zone. Ardire 
continued down the ice, deking 
past four NYU players, to put the 
puck in the middle of the side of 
the net for CMU. NYU scored 
again minutes later to keep the 
pace at 2-2. Both teams went to
record to 6-6-1 ,
the locker rooms with a possibility for the win? i; • 
Pressures of a tight game kick started the ndrs £ 
squad in the third. They were deadlocked for 1( 
minutes, forced to kill off penalties. Adukaitis, 
senior Anthony Paul, and sophomore Steve 
Leonhart worked hard during the expended pen- E 
alty kill. Something had to give when the combina [ 
tion of Fitzgerald, junior forward Derek Jandq 
(who had played back-up goal the night before} 
and Ardire connected, with Ardire down low on the 
NYU net. Ardire shot and got his own rebound to 
triumphantly put CMU permanently in the lead 
for the game, 3-2.
Min continued to make great kick and glove 
saves, keeping the momentum whenever his team** 
mates were beaten by the NYU rush. In the last 
few minutes, victory in sight, the first line combi­
nation of Maddalena and Adukaitis ended the 
period exactly how they began it with Adukaitis 
giving a beautiful dish to Buck, who finished the 
play and the scoring to set the final score at 4-2, 
Carnegie Mellon.
Coach Maddalena commented Friday night that 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania, next 
Saturday’s game, was going to be a must-have win. 
Assistant coach Tom Sullivan agreed, “We are still 
out of shape from the break and we are going || 
need to bring it up even more to beat a team likfif 
IUP. [NYU] was not heavy hitting but the other 
teams in the division are.” "•
Ardire, who had four goals and an assist in twJ 
nights added,” This team has a good chance in the 
playoffs. We are getting opportunities and not giving 
up any plays. We have good young players, especially 
Gil who played awesome in goal.” Min, who had $ 
saves on the night for his second win in two days said;
“ It was a team win. This is a whole new team, we’ve 
picked up two top lines since first semester.”
Jim Buck, who ajso had two goals on the night as 
the team’s top scorer, was encouraged by CMtftj» 
play, “I think that we played pretty well, for our 
third time out on the ice in a month, and we can 
only get better.” ,
Coach Maddalena was even more enthusiastic,, 
“We are going to be in the playoffs guaranteed.^ t 
CMU faces IUP at 8 pm on Saturday January 25, 
Neville Arena in the South Side.
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES 
INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, CABLE MOVIES, 
FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND RESERVED PARKING.
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 2 BLOCKS 
FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 12 DELICIOUS 
RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSP1TALS.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http://pittsburgh.net/Tony Chao/Tartan Photo EditCMU celebrates a goal against NYU.
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997
CMU suffers tough home loss to Johns Hopkins
tfdPKINS, from page 12
not give up a dunk to the tower­
ing opponents and their starters 
y$re finally pulled with less than 
feee minutes to play in the game. 
*rt(Wingen, whose team has played 
a division one opponent in each of 
the past four seasons, was noti- 
fiecl last May about the possibil­
ity of playing the game.
'(i “I was surprised, pleasantly. 
Ijjy reaction was, this was a 
g&me we wanted to play,” said 
Wingen. “[There was] no hesita­
tion at all on my part. There 
was absolutely no hesitation on 
tfie players’ part,” the coach re­
iterated. “Our guys did a great 
jpb of handling finals and prac­
tice,” Wingen said.
>rTThe game was played just be­
fore the last day of finals, when 
most CMU students had already 
left for the break. Even so, patches 
of Tartan fans could be heard 
cheering in Pitt’s Fitzgerald 
I^ldhouse. The Tartans last beat 
Q,ttsburgh in men’s basketball 
Qfl,March 1,1969, and before then 
ij)JL954. Both games were played 
at.Carnegie. CMU lost to the Pan­
thers the next few seasons before 
the game was discontinued. 
v^When its press was unsuccess­
ful, Pitt utilized a 1-3-1 zone to 
Ijgpp shot blocker Mark Blount 
%ge to swat shoots. Both blocks 
TO” center had were recorded 
before half time, as the box score 
inexplicably left out many oth­
ers.
'¡•“They were a lot bigger, stron­
ger than we’d seen,” said senior 
civil and environmental engineer 
ip&jor Gary Trendall, who led
Carnegie Mellon with seven 
rebounds.
The Tartans were out-re­
bounded 47-26 by the bigger 
team. The points came from 
everywhere for Pitt. Five Pan­
thers finished with double fig­
ures in scoring, while no player 
took more than 11 shots.
Although they would have 
liked a closer game, CMU was 
enthusiastic about the contest.
“If Pitt would like to play 
this game again, I’m all for it,” 
Coach Wingen said.
“I hope they continue to play 
a big game every year,” 
Trendall said.
Tartan men fight, but fall to Pittsburgh
PITT, from page 12
said Bowersox.“... and then I had 
two fouls.”
Now with both centers in foul 
trouble, starting forward Chris 
Butsko was the biggest man the 
Tartans had on the court for most 
of the half.
“I think he handled himself real 
well,” Bowersox said of Butsko’s 
play.
“We felt we could maintain the 
lead or at least stay close,” said 
Wingen of his team, which took a 
29-26 lead into halftime.
The second half featured more 
lead changes as the pace became 
more frenzied until the finish. The 
Tartans, who used a full court press
frequently in both halves, also exer­
cised manyy half court defensive 
sets.
“We feel we have to throw some 
wrinkles at them,” said Wingen. 
“We’re a better zone team than 
we are a man-to-man [team].” 
The team used variations of a 2- 
3 defense to confuse Johns 
Hopkins. The defense was strong, 
but eventually the offense would 
prove lacking.
“Our game is inside,” said 
Wingen. The team pounded the 
ball in to Trendel, who scored six 
of its first eight points in the 
second half. Later in the half the 
Tartans would stagnate.
“I think tonight a lot of times on
offense we didn’t execute as well 
as we could,” said starting guard 
LaDale Widmeyer.
“Because of our shooting, we go 
through dry spells where we just 
don’t score points,” said Wingen, 
“we’re not good enough to fight 
through things like that to win 
games.”
“Tonight we had two streaks 
where we couldn’t get a basket,” 
Widmeyer said.
After a hoop at 11:57, a jumper 
by Praesel was the sole source of 
scoring in a three-minute dry 
spot before Colin Shaunnessey 
scored a bucket with 8:30 re­
maining. Nearly two minutes 
later, Kevin Cackovic gave the
Tartans their last lead, 46-45 
on a drive to the hoop off a higj 
pick. From there the men won] 
go over five minutes without scor 
ing before Rich Bodnar drains 
a three with 1:23 remaining 
Bodnar led CMU with 10 rj 
bounds.
“That’s been the story all yea 
long.... Our effort is fantastij 
Guys are out there throwing the; 
bodies all over the floor,” Winge] 
said.
“The game as a whole, I 
think we deserved to lose 
Praesel said.
The men next play Larochf 
tomorrow January 21 in Skil* 
Gymnasium at 7:30 pm.
VISITORS: Johns HopkinsTOT-FG3-PTREBOUNDS
No.NAMEFGFGAFGFGAFTFTAOFDETOTPFTPATOBLKsMIN
45Roehrig, Gregf36110031437241022
51Unseld, Wesf48001203339102025
55Gorman, Mattc510006113811316100035
13Coar, Kamaug14020005522320236
43Peterson, Ryang6111502044313140137
05Zorensky, Ben04032204422010115
21Geschke, Matt14020000002000117
25Satalin, Ryan1100120112310004
31Olson, Jonathan0100120220100005
41Ellis, Evan000000O000000104
TEAM REBOUNDS112
TOTALS 21 49213• 112172936185591145200
HOME TEAM: Carnegie MellonTOTFG3-PTREBOUNDS
No.NAMEFGFGAFGFGAFTFTAOFDETOTPFTPATOBLKsMIIN
10Sofish, Andyf06020034730010231
22Butsko, Chrisf27000102214310023
40Trendel, Garyc490023123410021119
05Widmever, LaDale g03000000000020027
23Bodnar, Richg381222461019010130
03Antigua, Omar0000220110200005
21Mills, Scott0100000110000005
32Shaunnessey, Colin47000112328201117
S3Praesel, Tommy5112612325313101118
44Cackovic, Kevin14020003302100013
45Bowersox, Dan24001103335020012
TEAM REBOUNDS123
TOTALS 21 6031281213284117537936200

---------------------------------------------------

Amlt N. Kar/ Tartan Contributing Editor
There’s More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Front-Wheel 
Drive Or A 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room For Up 
To 5 And Cargo, Too.
TOYOTA RAV4 ... IT S OUT THERE AT YOUR
®TOYOTA
I love what you do for meTOYOTA DEALER NOW!Simply Best
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997 M.
TOYOTA'S REMARKABLE RAV4
ADMINISTRATION
al Director — Mike 
X8-2214; Assistant Direc- 
Grzywinski X8-2214 or x8- 
Intramural Secretary— Michelle 
X8-2053; Intramural President 
Williams 621-8987; Womens 
— Pia Soriano 681-4031
Important Dates
Tuesday, January 21 — IM Board 
eeting at 11:30 am in the Gym confer­
ee room.
Thursday, January 23— Basketball 
fid faculty grad volleyball rosters due 
:30 pm.
Monday, January 27 — Basketball 
,les meeting 4:30 pm.
Thursday, January 30— Floor hockey 
nd Pinochle rosters due.
Monday, February 3— Floor hockey 
[lies meeting at 4:30 pm.I
 Sports Completed
Soccer
The soccer season was completed 
i the Monday before Thanksgiving 
th Kappa Sigma defeating Watson’s 
annabees in overtime.
Three-Person Volleyball
¿The champions in the four leagues 
(ere crowned last semester on Thurs- 
ay, December 5 at the University Cen­
ter Gym. They were: in Majors — PiKA 
, intermediate — SAE Argentina, Mi- 
lors — Beta Colemans, and Womens 
nly — Flying O’s.
Foosball
Two of the three champions were 
ecided just before Winter Break. In 
lajors, the Foozicists defeated DU and 
i MinorsTSA Gully defeated PiKATeam 
m. 38.
Bowling
Nedel's Nightmare defeated The 
luicker Picker Uppers inthefinal match 
n Sunday December 8 at the lanes at 
ie P.A.A. TSA Lemonade and PiKA 
ere defeated in the semi-finals.
Racquetball
’ On Wednesday, December 4 the fi- 
als were held at the UC courts. In 
Majors, Team Wean defeated AEPi and 
iMinors, DeSee Force defeated Dead 
rogs.
Darts
; The Delt Scrubs were the champions 
f the Dart league.
Table Tennis
The champions of the three leagues 
ere determined over the week of Fi- 
¡als. They were in Majors Slice & Dice 
, in Intermediate TSA Superfly, and in 
llnors Smash Fest.
Upcoming Sports
Basketball
Rosters are due on Thursday, Janu­
ary 23 at 4:30 pm in the IM office, 
here will be an important rules meet- 
igon Monday, January 27 at4:30 pm. 
to schedules will be given out prior to 
iat time. All teams must attend this 
iandatory meeting. Games will begin 
nTuesday, January 28. They will played 
[both the Main Gym and the Univer- 
|y Center.
Floor Hockey
There will be a few changes in the 
997 Floor Hockey season. There will 
be both Contact and Non-Contact with 
II three leagues available in each 
fle. Special entry forms are available 
tthe IM Office and there is space for 
ach team to make two choices as to 
hat league they will play, in case 
lere are not enough teams to have 
their first choice. A player may only 
ay on one team. The mandatory rules 
Meeting will be held Monday, February 
at 4:30 pm.
There will be an important meeting of 
16 Intramural Board. It will take place 
tiorrow at 11:30 am in the Gym 
¡ference room. The times of the 
etings for the rest of the semester 
be determined at that time.
All-Sports Points
(through sports completed)
»ud
I SAE 1816 
2-Todd's Team 1300 
I 3. Beta 1266 
i 4. DU 1175 
I 5- TSA 1083 
L6- PiKA 991 
t® PKT 766
VOMEN 
Tartan Hoopers 808 
J 2. Flying O’s 750 
I3- Pioneers 383
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
.. The RAV4, Which Corners Better, Rides More Smoothly And Feels 
More Nimble Than Any SUV Made." -AutoWeek, June '96 
"The RAV4 Is A Fun-Junkie's Dream Machine." -Car And Driver, April ‘96
"Toyota's New RAV4 Seems To Bridge The Cast Casm Between Car And Truck. This 
Little Wagon With Big Wheels Is A Car And A Truck." -Car And Driver, April'% 
"Rally-Car Performance, Camry-Like Quality" -Car And Driver; July '96
New faces and old hats appear at Superbowl
Patriots will end NFC dominance
From the Goal Line
by Ronak Singhal
My first column of the football season 
predicted that the Green Bay Packers 
would defeat the Pittsburgh Steelers in 
Super Bowl XXXI. But now, only six days 
before the Big Game, I am predicting 
that the unheralded New England Patri­
ots will invade New Orleans and defeat 
Green Bay. Why the sudden change of 
heart? Mainly because the Steelers are 
out of the playoffs. But seriously, the 
New England Patriots will win not only 
because of their diversified offense and 
surprising defense, but also because of 
the mere presence of a graduate of Towson 
State University, Dave Meggett.
How can a running back who did not 
score a single rushing or receiving touch­
down all season determine the fate of this 
game? Well, it’s not what Meggett will do, 
but what he has already done that en­
sures that the Patriots will win this game.
The entire complexion of this year’s 
playoffs changed on a single play made 
by a single individual. On the last Satur­
day of the regular season, the Patriots 
visited the Meadowlands to take on the 
best team that New York City had to 
offer. If the Patriots won this game, they 
would clinch a first-round bye, but a loss 
combined with a Pittsburgh Steeler vic­
tory the next day would give the Steelers 
the bye.
However, the New York Giants in the 
first half of that game were not the 
hapless fools that they had been all 
throughout the rest of the season. In­
stead, they ran out to a 22-0 lead and 
the NBC half-time crew started talking 
about what the Steelers needed to do 
the next day to beat the Carolina Pan­
thers.
But the Giants reverted to their hap­
less ways in the second half and seemed 
decidedly uninterested in mustering any 
offense; in the process, the Patriots were 
given a chance to come back. With the 
score 22-10, the Giants were forced to 
punt once again. Returning back the 
kick was Meggett, who called the Mead­
owlands home during the Giants’ glory 
days. He took the punt on the fly and 
scampered 60 yards virtually untouched 
for a touchdown that brought the Pats 
within five points.
After that play, the Giants were too 
shell-shocked to accomplish anything, 
least of all stopping the momentum of 
the Pats. Ben Coates caught a Bledsoe 
pass for a last-minute TD and the Pats 
won 23-22. As a result of this game, the 
Steelers had nothing to play for the next 
day and rested most of their starters. 
Still, they gave the Carolina Panthers a 
run for their money before succumbing; a 
win that also gave the Panthers their 
division crown.
What would have happened had 
Meggett not returned that punt for a TD?
Although hypothetical, it is entirely 
conceivable that the Patriots would 
not have come back and that the 
Steelers, using their starters, would 
have defeated the Panthers. This would 
have given the Steelers and 49ers first- 
round byes and home games in the 
second round, while forcing the Pan­
thers and Patriots to play in the first- 
round. Clearly, the outcome of these 
playoffs would most likely be different 
if that scenario had been played out. 
But karma and Dave Meggett are on 
the side of the New England Patriots 
this year.
It takes a special team with (usually) 
a special coach to win a Super Bowl. 
The Patriots have rebounded from an 
0-2 start and now their spectacular 
offense has been combined with an un­
heralded defense that has given up no 
touchdowns in the last 10 quarters. 
They also have a coach in Bill Parcells 
that is 2-0 in Super Bowls. To para­
phrase Newton, an object in motion 
tends to stay in motion. Dave Meggett’s 
punt return in the regular season set in 
motion a series of events that is too 
strong to stop. Forget the NFC domina­
tion and take the underdogs this year.
New England 27 - Green Bay 17.
Ronak Singhal is a senior electrical 
and computer engineering major.
Packers will bring titletown a trophy
4th and 26
by Steve Charnoubi
Only a handful of individuals today in 
the world of sports can be considered the 
best to ever play their sport. Athletes like 
Michael Jordan, Wayne Gretzky, and 
Jerry Rice have taken their game to an­
other level and have already become leg­
ends in the sports they play. Super hu­
man ability and championships usually 
go hand in hand, but for Reggie White, 
the best defensive lineman to ever play 
football, this Sunday will mark his first 
trip to the Super Bowl.
The NFL all-time sack leader started 
his NFL career in Philadelphia anchor­
ing an Eagles defense that at one time 
ranked first against the ran, pass, and 
overall. In 1993, following a dispute with 
the Eagles management, Reggie White 
left Philadelphia in search of a team who 
could give him what he hungered for 
most in the world: a Super Bowl ring on 
his finger. The Green Bay Packers con­
vinced Reggie that they could take ium 
to the Super Bowl, and now four years 
later Reggie White and the Green $ay 
Packers will be battling the New En­
gland Patriots in New Orleans for Super 
Bowl XXXI.
Green Bay won Super Bowl I andJTI> 
but since then have not had the chaiice 
to compete for the Lombardi tropliy 
named after the man who coached 
Green Bay to their two Super Bowl 
wins. With Vince Lombardi’s ghfjst 
guiding them through the 1996 season, 
albeit through the use of cheesy Nike 
commercials, the Packers should dotfc£l- 
nate a game their conference has b6&n 
dominating for the last twelve years. 
The New England Patriots lost to Etie 
Chicago Bears in Super Bowl XIX to 
begin the NFC’s Super Bowl winning 
streak.
Green Bay’s defense, with the addition 
of Reggie White, has become one of tKfe 
top units in the league. Reggie’s ability to 
consistently put pressure on the quar­
terback despite double or even tripie 
teams leads a defensive line with two 
pass-rushing veterans in Sean J ones and 
Santana Dotson, and a huge run-stopper 
in Gilbert which should man-handle'.'a 
relatively unknown Patriot offensive liide 
enabling them to slow down Pittsburgh 
alumnus Curtis Martin and disrupt Drew 
Bledsoes passing. Green Bay has ¿Ke 
match-up they want with Pro-B owl safety 
Leroy Butler covering tight end Ben 
Coates. Safety Eugene Robinson, Who 
has intercepted more passes (34) in the 
NFL than any other player in the 1990s, 
joins comerbacks Craig Newsome and 
Doug Evans in a secondary that should 
be able to control Patriots receivers Terry 
Glenn and Shawn Jefferson.
Back in July, Brett Favre guaranteed 
that his Packers would be in the Super 
Bowl. Following a brilliant season whi^h 
earned him his second consecutive NFL 
MVP award and two playoff home victo­
ries the Packers are exactly where Brett 
Favre said they would be. Look for Favafe 
to pick apart the Patriots’ secondary 
using targets like wide receiver Antoitid 
Freeman, tight end Keith Jackson, and 
running backs Edgar Bennett anki 
Dorsey Levens. Favre’s biggest chal­
lenge will come from blitzing monstfei' 
Willie McGinest, however having twio 
all-pro tight ends in Jackson and Mack 
Chmura will give Brett Favre the extra 
protection he needs to dismantle the 
Patriots’ defense. "
Both Brett and Reggie are hungry: 
You can see it in their eyes and you’ll see 
it reflected on the field by their pla#: 
Look for Favre to win the game on of­
fense and White to win it on defense. The 
Green Bay Packers will win the Super 
Bowl giving all their players from former 
Bills receiver Don Beebe (0-4 in the 
Super Bowl) to Reggie White their long-; 
awaited NFL Championship.
Green Bay 34 - New England 11
Steve Charnoubi is a junior computer; 
science major who's happy to see a Super; 
Bowl without Dallas or San Francisco 
playing in it. He probably thinks that; 
Philadelphia Eagles will win the Super, 
Bowl next year.
ussUpiU
55A.-RESnoBa5IA.NRA
C53.3R5PBiiC53.3RA
33I.NRC-Tfi­33I.NR33
HUsUpiU
553.-R3NSnoBaCAN.OR3
C5E.ERCOPBii3E3.5R3
N5.NR-Tfi­OO.ARI

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 13The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 January 199
ro. gnfli BFUi qnBq­G 
zUpUdBa vBpBzUd
Hearthreakers
Men fall to Pittsburgh, Johns Hopkins
On the Net
by Jessica Strelitz 
and Chris Adukiatis
In mid-December of 1996, the St. Louis 
Blues fired their coach and general man­
ager, Mike Keenan. When faced with the 
possibility of losing their star right-winger, 
Brett Hull, the St. Louis brass decided to 
boot Keenan, despite having two and a half 
years left on his ten million dollar contract.
" You’ve got to under­
stand one thing about 
Mike. He comes with an 
expiration date.” 
-Anonymous
“You’ve got to understand one thing about 
Mike. He comes with an expiration date,”
: an unknown speaker said after Keenan left 
the New York Rangers.
Keenan has long been acknowledged as 
!one oftheNHL’s best coaches. In his former 
stints with the Flyers and Blackhawks, he 
lead both teams to the Stanley Cup finals 
twice. Of course he recently is best known 
for his time coaching in the Big Apple, 
where he took the Rangers to the Cup — 
ending their fifty-four year drought. “Iron 
Mike” quickly jumped over to the Blues 
after the 93-94 season, shocking everyone, 
especially the Rangers’ club that he was 
still under contract with. Why did he leave 
a championship team in a city where he 
was being hailed as a savior? Simple: the 
Blues offered him not only the job behind 
Please see KEENAN, page 9
Volleyball club 
starts anew
By AMIT N. KAR
Tartan Contributing Editor
After a three year hiatus, CMIfs on-again 
off-again Volleyball Club is once again com­
peting on an inter-collegiate level. The club, 
which has its first home game versus Geneva 
College on February 16, has suffered through 
a lack of consistent interest. The result has 
been an organization whose competitive sta­
tus has been hard to determine since the late 
seventies.
“We’ve put a lot of time 
and effort in this year. 
We actually have a 
coach.” 
—Todd Scheider, 
Volleyball Club President
; However, according to Todd Schneider, a 
senior studying computer science and the 
club’s current president, a resurgence in 
interest has been responsible for the club’s 
revival. “The upper classmen who had [been 
with the old club] decided to take charge and 
put things together,” said Schneider. 
Schneider also pointed to a higher level of 
interest in the current freshman class as 
another reason the team is succeeding.
Although the members of the club prac­
ticed throughout last semester, the away 
game at Central Catholic with St. Vincent 
on January 25 will mark the first time CMlFs 
volleyball club team has officially repre­
sented the university since 1994.
: Despite the lack of consistent competitive 
experience, the club is aiming high. “I actu­
ally have some really high expectations of 
the team. I’ve seen all the work we’ve put 
in and I think that’ll be worth a lot later,” 
said Schneider. “I just know that this year 
is a lot stronger,” he added. “We’ve put a lot 
Please see VOLLEYBALL, page 9
Men drop to Johns Hopkins in basketball
By CHRIS CANNON “We honestly should win a lot of the games that “We felt we could maintain the lead or at least stay
Tartan Sports Editor we lose,” said Praesely whose 13 points off the close, [Dan] Bowersox has done a good job as a
bench led the team. backup."
“I thought it was short,” said reserve player Carnegie Mellon fought through much adversity Without Trendel, CMU fell behind 9-12 befon 
Tommy Praesel of his potential game winning shot throughout the game to position themselves for the rallying with a 12-2 run to take their biggest lead 
Friday night in the Skibo Gymnasium; the ball win, but it was not to be. Center Gary Trendel was of the game. However, a four minute scoring 
clinked offthe front ofthe rim and the men dropped assessed two fouls in the first four minutes and sat drought, one of many for CMU, let Johns Hopkins 
to Johns Hopkins 55-53. The basketball team’s out the rest ofthe opening half. back in the game.
record stands at 5-8, including 0^1 in University “It’s not a rule or a strategy,” said head coach “I feel I had one of my better games of the year,’ 
Athletic Association play. Tony Wingen on keeping the center off the court. Please see HOPKINS, page 10
mnqcU, oBcUi oWn zBvUi lp oWn eB,i
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwritter
The Carnegie Mellon ice hockey club 
reached the .500 mark for the first time 
this season, opening the second half of 
their season with back to back wins over 
Robert Morris College and New York 
University, improving their overall 
record to 6-6-1.
Carnegie Mellon faced Robert Moris 
College in Moon on Friday night. In his 
spring semester debut, senior forward 
Ray Ardire made his presence known in 
under fives minutes by rapping in the 
first tally of the game with an assist by 
junior forward Scott Fitzgerald. But Rob­
ert Morris, unlike previous contests, did 
not let up. They hustled twice as fast to 
the puck and put up a strong fight for
possession. Minutes after the Ardire goal, 
RMC scored, tying the game 1—1. CMU was 
stunned by the aggressive spirit that RMC 
was showing by outshooting the Tartan squad 
7-6 in the first period which ended dead­
locked at 1-1.
But the CMU hockey club is a fiery bunch. 
They all know that every game counts, espe­
cially this semester when faced with the spec­
ter of a losing record for the first time in many 
years. After the brief between-periods break, 
the first line took the ice and stormed the net 
scoring two goals a minute apart. The first 
appeared to be a set- shot by junior defenseman 
Bryan Campo to send the puck into the offen­
sive zone on a power play. The puck had been 
brought up by senior tandem of assistant 
captain Chris Adukaitis and fellow winger 
Jim Buck, when Campo took control to allow 
Please see HOCKEY, page 10Ray Ardire skates away from a defender. Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Ed®
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
Late rally falls short
By KEVIN KROEN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon women’s basketball team suf­
fered a tough loss to Johns Hopkins University 56-50 
Friday night at Skibo Gymnasium. Despite a 32-23 
deficit at half-time, the Tartans rebounded and pulled 
within two points with a minute left in the game. 
Unfortunately for the Tartans, they had to foul and 
Johns Hopkins hit four out of their last five free 
throws while the Tartans couldn’t seem to hit a des­
perately needed three-pointer.
This was an impressive performance, considering 
the fact the Tartans turnover to assist ratio was 
almost two to one. “We had too many turnovers. We 
panicked a little bit,” said coach Gerry Seidl. Johns 
Hopkins was a good team though, as four of their 
players scored in double digits and two players were in 
double digits for rebounds. “This was an excellent 
team,” said Seidl.
Leading the way for the Tartans was senior guard 
Penny Davis, who scored 17 points while adding nine 
rebounds and two assists in 32 minutes of play. Senior 
guard Kelly Gaitens came ofthe bench to hit two three- 
pointers while scoring a total of seven points. Fresh­
man guard Lacey Perretta and senior guard Kristin 
Kupfer both added six points. Kupfer unfortunately
for women’s hoops
got injured during the game and was not able t< 
contribute as much as the team needed.
“When Kristin went down and got injured, I don’? 
know if she could keep her play up [sic],” said Seidl. Tht 
Tartans did do two things quite well during the game 
defense and defensive rebounding.
“Our defense was exceptional,” said Seidl.
They held Johns Hopkins to a 32.8 field goal percent 
age, which is excellent. Johns Hopkins also played 
great defense though, holding the Tartans to a 29j 
field goal percentage. On the defensive boards, 
Tartans outrebounded Johns Hopkins. Freshman cen 
ter Samantha Majemik grabbed six defensive boards 
and Kupfer had five. The Tartans, however, could noi 
carry this rebounding mentality on the offensive side 
as they were outrebounded by Hopkins.
“We needed to improve the number of offensive 
boards,” said Seidl.
In addition to the number of turnovers and the lack 
of offensive play, the Tartans had to play the referees 
who consistently made questionable calls.
“The officials were bad. I don’t blame the officials, but 
they made a difference in this game,” said Seidl. There 
were several fouls called and traveling violations that 
could have easily have gone the other
Greensburg on Wednesday in
In what head coach Tony Wingen described as 
a “no-lose situation” [Carnegie Mellon News 
Volume 4, Number 8] on December 16, the 
Carnegie Mellon men’s basketball team was de­
feated by the University of Pittsburgh 84-39.
“Our guys knew [they’d have] to do everything 
right, just to stay in the game,” said Wingen.
The Tartans started off right, twice taking 
early leads on two three-pointers by mechanical 
engineering major, junior Andy Sofish. The game 
remained close for the first ten minutes of play, 
until Pitt opened up their first 10 point lead with 
7:39 remaining in the half.
“We would have liked to stay with them a 
little longer,” said Sofish, who led the Tartans 
with 11 points.
A combination of relentless pressure and some 
carelessness would doom the squad.The Pan­
thers forced 31 turnovers, including 19 in the 
first half on the strength of 11 steals.
“We won’t see anybody who’ll pressure us like 
this for the rest of the year,” CMU Head Coach 
Tony Wingen said.
“Probably we would have liked to handle their 
pressure a little longer,” Sofish said.
The Tartans were not entirely dominated by 
Pitt’s full court press. Often times, their guards 
would not capitalize on superior numbers after 
breaking the press and become trapped again at 
half court by recovering defenders. Even when 
CMU pressed its advantage, opposing defenders 
were usually in place to intimidate shots.
The Panthers used a 14-4 run over the next six 
minutes to open the margin to twenty and effec­
tively put the game away.
Nevertheless, CMU played with valiant inten­
sity throughout the second half. The Tartans did 
Please see PITT, page 10
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
Johns Hopkins played straight up defense 
against CMU Friday night in Skibo Gymnasium.
Basketball player Tommy Praesel looks for a shot agalns Johns
The Tartans fight for a rebound against Johns Hopkins.Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor
HopkinsAndrew McDermott/
Tartan Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Ken Namkung/Tartan Art Staff
Professors cancel classes on MLK day
what are termed ‘floating holidays, 
which allow faculty and staff to take 
three days a year, in addition to the 
days when the University is closed, 
based on their own personal convic­
tions and preferences.” Murphy also 
claims that students are able to miss 
a class in commemoration of any holi­
day if they choose to do so. “For stu­
dents, faculty have always been very
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
“Martin Luther King Day is not 
merely a meaningless day off for gov­
ernment offices; the experience of in­
justice that it commemorates is both 
fresh and ongoing. CMU’s decision to 
hold class that day, and its failure 
even to get the date right on its calen­
dar, demonstrate ----------------------
; that the University is 
somewhat out of 
touch with history,” 
said Charles Linville, 
au instructor with 
the English depart­
ment. Though many 
Masses will remain in 
session on the holi­
day, many members of CMU’s teach- accommodating if a student has a re- 
lng staff are honoring the holiday that 
commemorates the struggles of our 
country’s greatest civil rights leader 
V cancelling classes.
Despite the administration’s deci- 
Slon to keep the University open on 
Monday, Dean of Student Affairs,
Michael Murphy, recognizes the fact
“CMU’s decision to hold class that day 
... [demonstrates] that the University is 
somewhat out of touch with history. ”
— Charles Linville, English instructor
ligious or other day of celebration 
which might require some special ac­
commodation. I am not aware of any 
circumstance where a faculty mem­
ber has been unwilling to accommo­
date a student’s need for special con­
sideration on such a day.”
While these policies are in effect at
that individual teachers may feel it the University, a number of teachers 
Necessary to cancel their classes. He feel Martin Luther King Day is not an 
said, “For faculty and staff, there are ordinary holiday that deems optional
celebration. Joel Woller, an English 
instructor, said, “To me, the King holi­
day is special. It’s a holiday when 
people are invited to remember and 
reflect on efforts, such as King’s, to 
abolish injustice.”
Because of the school’s failure to 
not hold classes on Martin Luther 
King Day, protests have been held in 
the past by angered students. “It 
hasn’t been my expe­
rience that protests 
are the best path to 
resolution to con­
cerns, though they 
may serve to bring 
people together 
around a common in­
terest [sic],” Murphy 
™ sajd_ “Actual problem
solving is undoubtedly better served 
by sitting together and exploring op­
tions. Perhaps, this is an issue which 
the students, faculty, staff, and 
alumni on the University Student 
Affairs Council could engage with oth­
ers concerned within the campus com­
munity.”
Murphy also feels that if a protest 
takes place this year, he is certain it 
will be done so in a peaceful and non- 
Please see MLK, page L3
Celebrating Dr. King...
Speaker recounts African tales
By BETTY SHEA
Tartan Staffwriter
While cold gusts of wind froze Pitts­
burgh sidewalks last Saturday, the 
air inside Phipps Conservatory was 
warm, thick, and moist. The conserva­
tory was alive with the colors of its 
flowers and trees. It was also alive 
with Bob Gore’s narration of tradi­
tional African tales.
Gore is a 65-year-old professional 
African storyteller. “I go to schools 
frequently, mostly elementary 
schools. But I’ve been asked to per­
form in middle schools and high 
schools, colleges, family reunions, 
churches.... All the stories I tell are 
African .... [except] I’ve added one re­
cently from India ... because it was 
just so good I couldn’t pass it up. I 
target any [age] group. I’ve also been 
to the Lemmington Center for the 
Aged in East Liberty,” he said.
Gore’s most recent appearance, last 
Saturday in Phipps Conservatory, 
was arranged by Bob Alexander, 
Phipps Conservatory’s head of educa­
tion. Gore’s one-hour performance at­
tracted both attentive adult and chil­
dren listeners. Now and then, pass- 
ersby would stop to listen to a tale or 
two. Each tale was just a few minutes 
long, and Gore punctuated his per­
formance with songs and activities 
for the children.
When asked whether Martin Luther 
King Day had anything to do with 
Alexander’s choice ofthe performance 
date, Gore said, “I’m certain that [Mar­
tin Luther King Day] is the reason ... 
because I performed about the same 
time last year.”
In part, Gore treats his storytelling 
as a constant effort to bridge dispari­
ties between different groups of people. 
“What I hope is that some of these 
kinds of stories will begin to subtly 
sensitize [children].... [But] it’s not 
helpful if [children] go home and their 
mother or father says, Were there 
any niggers in your class?’ That tears 
down anything I could’ve tried to do. 
And that kind of thing does still go 
on.... But at any rate, I’m still hopeful. 
I’m very, very hopeful.”
Gore claimed to be a pacifist at heart.
Please see TALES, page L2
T TT 7T1 T /Nmannnimianin
Livimj
¡BSH9
Observing Martin Luther King Day at CMU

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997
Conservatory celebrates MLK day
TALES, from LI
When talking about his own views on the 
use of violence, he said, “You have to teach 
ycAirself to be violent, so why not teach 
yourself to be non-violent? And the out­
come of non-violence is so much greater.... 
Violence has been tried for hundreds and
thousands ofyears, and it ____________
has rarely worked. Itmay 
have stalled some things, 
but it has rarely worked.”
Although acknowl­
edging that nowadays 
racism against African 
Americans is signifi- 
pantly less that before,
.Core believes that 
there is much work to be done. “Un­
fortunately, we live in this fractured 
society in America where you have 
one group of people going one way 
and one group going another way,” 
He said. “But there’s got to be, I think,
a constant effort to join these people 
together.”
In choosing his repertoire, Gore 
stresses the importance of the enter­
taining qualities in a story. He said, 
“The major reason [I choose a story] is 
that I just like telling it.... The first
“What I hope is that some of these 
kinds of stories will begin to subtly 
sensitize [children]. ”
— Bob Gorey Phipps speaker
thing I have in mind when I’m telling 
stories is to entertain.... But ... a sec­
ondary, more subtle, thing is that all 
these stories have some little messages 
in them. I’ve made it a practice not to 
ask the kids, ‘What does that [the moral
of the story] mean?’ I trust that the 
subtle message gets to them.”
Gore mentioned what Carnegie Mellon 
students could do to continue King’s work 
of narrowing the gap between different 
races. “I think the first thing... is to use your 
time wisely ... and not to forget the very 
reason you are there, which is to 
soak up all the knowledge you 
can,”he said. “Now, on the other 
hand, there are a lot of things 
you are not going to get in the 
classroom, but are available to 
you right there: interactions 
with people unlike yourself. 
Sure that’s scary, but so what?
Takearisk—becauseyouaren’t 
getting anywhere if you don’t take risks.” 
When asked if his audiences seem to 
think of him simply as a good storyteller, 
Gore laughed. “That’s all I want them to 
think,” he said. “Yeah, that’s all I want 
them to think.”
Council helps first-year students adjust
By REENA SINGHAL
!Tartan Staffwriter
Innovation in Learning. “It can ex­
plore both the academic and the social 
sides of the college experience and 
I When upperclassmen look back at how the two work, or fail to work, 
¡their first semester of college, they together.”
¡most likely remember being over- Tobin Coziahr, a University Choice 
¡whelmed by the workload, surprisingly freshman planning to major in electri- 
¡large lecture halls, and the new free- cal and computer engineering and in- 
Idomthey suddenly acquired. CMU has formation and 
recognized these common feelings of decision systems, 
first-year students and has formed the is representing ‘
University First-Year Council in order 
to help first-year students successfully 
adjust to CMU’s rigorous academic en­
vironment. “It is nice to know that 
there is a group organized to help make 
;t!he transition easier,” said Abhi Sheth, 
a freshman public policy and manage­
ment major.
The council, chaired by Ed Ko, vice 
provost for Education, is comprised of
15 members, representing many de­
partments throughout the University, 
ranging from the office of Student Af­
fairs to the school of Computer Science 
and the Eberly Center for Teaching 
Excellence. “We believe it is important 
to take an integrated approach to im­
prove the total development of our stu­
dents,” said Ko.
‘ According to Ko, the mission of the 
council is to understand the intellectual, 
social, emotional, and cultural adapta­
tion and development that first-year 
students experience, and to work with 
faculty and students to enhance and 
provide a context for these experiences.
Implementing first-year programs that 
integrate the efforts of faculty, stu­
dent, and student affairs staff, all 
in order to better the quality of 
life for first-year CMU students 1
is another element of the 
council’s mission.
“The First-Year Council is 
an important new initiative 
for Carnegie Mellon because 
it can take a broad perspec­
tive on the student’s experience dur­
ing the formative first college year,”
the class of 2000 on the council. 
“There is always room for improve­
ment,” said Coziahr. “The council 
is currently helping the orienta­
tion process fit closer to fresh­
man needs.”
“We are actually collecting 
data from students and trying 
to improve the first-year [experience] 
based on their input,” said council 
said council member John Hayes, pro- member Tresa Pollock, associate pro­
fessor and director of the Center for fessor of materials science and engi­
neering. This information is being col­
lected through surveys completed by 
freshmen in selected courses, regard­
ing both their reactions towards the 
orientation activities and their aca­
demic experiences. This will most likely 
result in changes to the orientation 
program for next fall. “I am looking 
forward to seeing the changes the First- 
Year Council is going to implement for 
orientation and how it improved from 
the orientation program we experi­
enced,” said Chris Skiadas, a fresh­
man industrial management major, 
planning to be an orientation counse­
lor for the upcoming freshman class.
In addition to trying to implement 
changes to freshmen orientation, the 
council is trying to develop programs 
that will improve the students’ learning, 
such as help with time management and 
study skills.
Last semester the council also spon­
sored two pilot workshops for instruc­
tors and teaching assistants of first- 
year students. “The goal is for people 
who teach freshman to have a better 
understanding of this group, to share 
effective teaching strategies, and to be 
aware of the resources on campus,” 
said Ko.
“People who interact with Carnegie 
Mellon freshmen in different capaci­
ties are encouraged to share their 
ideas and experiences with any of the 
council members,” said Ko. “We are 
also interested in learning about ef­
fective first-year programs at other 
universities,” said Ko. “Needless to 
say, we would like to hear from our 
students, both freshmen and upper­
classmen.”
The council plans to present its first 
set of recommendations for improvement 
by May, as part of the University Strate­
gic Planning Process. Council member 
John Woolford, professor of biological 
sciences, said, “I am hoping that we will 
be able to implement changes to really 
improve the first year experience and 
the ability of the students to assimilate 
into college.”
Student artists show work in UC Gallery
s
Jason Siegendorf /Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Megan Day is this week’s featured student artist in the UC Gallery. She 
collaborated on this display with her brother, David.
By DANIELLE PIERATTI
Tartan Staffwriter
“It began as an idea that I wanted to 
do an exhibit with my brother because 
he’s influenced me since I was young, 
and there’s a lot of similarities in our 
work even though we have distinct 
styles,” said Megan Day, this week’s 
contributing artist to the new Univer­
sity Center Gallery. She went on to 
explain how the choice to do land­
scapes rather than portraits was an 
important one because it defined a 
link between her and her brother, 
David Day, whose art is also presently 
being shown in the gallery. “There’s a 
conversation that goes on between our 
work because we talk so much and we 
play off certain things with each other. 
That’s what inspired me to do the 
show, because my relationship with 
my brother is very important to me,” 
said Day.
At the same time, the selection of 
an exhibit of landscapes rather than 
a more specific portrayal of the sib­
lings’ relationship, such as portraits, 
was also something that viewers could 
relate to. “I’ve found that painting 
the subject of a landscape is a very 
different experience than painting 
objects or people. When painting a 
person, I have a specific relationship 
with that person that is the central 
focus of the piece.... With landscapes, 
I have a very different relationship to 
the subject. The subject is open, and I 
am dealing with objects as they exist 
only with their relationship to a 
space.... The experience of painting a 
landscape is very different because 
you’re representing the space as well 
as the object. I like the idea of paint­
ing spaces that you can draw people 
into,” said Day.
However, in spite of her apparent 
knowledge on the subject of landscapes, 
Megan admits that she is quite new to 
the subject. “Dealing with the idea of 
landscape was a new experience for
me this semester.... My brother has 
been painting landscapes since he was 
a senior in high school, and has a 
stronger foundation for dealing with 
the representation of space,” she said.
“There are galleries on campus but 
none that have been like this,” said 
Anne Witchner, assistant dean of Stu­
dent Affairs and director of Student 
Activities. This is due to the fact that 
the gallery is unique in two ways: it is 
at the center of campus, in a highly 
traversed area, and it is the only gal­
lery which displays the work of any 
students interested, whether or not 
they are art students. “I think it’s a 
nice way to celebrate students ... who 
aren’t necessarily art majors,” said 
Witchner.
Heather Midkiff, the gallery’s main 
organizer, sees the gallery as a valu­
able source of information, both for 
contributors and viewers. “I think the 
gallery serves as both an educational 
programming resource, and an oppor­
tunity for students to gain experience 
setting up shows,” she said.
In affirmation of this, Black History 
month will be celebrated by a display 
of the African American Quilter’s Guild 
from February 3-7, and artwork by 
Pittsburgh children on what Black 
History month means to them, dis­
played by individuals from East End 
Tutoring and CMU Role Models from 
February 17-28.
This semester, the gallery will be 
run by Tolga Ehran, a graduate stu­
dent in GSIA. “Getting in touch with 
art is something everyone must ex­
perience in his or her life,” said Tolga. 
Contributors will include: Christo­
pher Craychee, CMU design stu­
dents, Photo Club, Rachel 
Schmeidler, Edith Pong and the Hong 
Kong Students Association, Aimee 
Sealfon, Jesse Ramey, and Karen 
Liebowitz. Megan Day’s closing re­
ception will be held on Friday Janu­
ary 24 from 7—9 pm in the gallery for 
anyone who is interested.
Psychology department receives prestigious research funding
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
Two glass cylinders filled with 
water are placed upon a table. 
Nearby lies a variety of objects of 
differing size, shape, and mate­
rial. A child is then asked to de­
termine how fast an object sinks 
in water depending upon each of 
these characteristics. This is one 
type of question asked to elemen­
tary .school children in the Pitts­
burgh area in a four-year science 
Reasoning study awarded 
$725,000 in funding from The 
James S. McDonnell Foundation. 
Leading the study are CMU psy­
chology professor David Klahr 
and CMU Postdoctoral Fellow in 
Psychology, Zhe Chen. Carnegie 
Mellon University was one of six 
research teams to receive fund­
ing last November to support this 
organization’s Cognitive Studies 
for Educational Practice (CSEP) 
program, which promotes the use 
of cognitive science in the class­
room.
Klahr said, “If we do this right, 
we will give teachers a better way 
to assess what [the students] are 
learning.”
The money will go towards sup- 
porting graduate students, 
postdoctoral researchers, and
GREEN CARD LOTTERY
55,000 Immigrant Visas Available
Ends March 5, 1997
For more information contact:
Ventresca & Ventresca 
Attorneys at Law 
555 Grant Street • Suite 373 
Pittsburgh • PA • 15219 
(412) 261-5366 
Visit our web site at: http://ilw.com/ventresca 
or email us at: 7341 l.252@compuserve.com
Permanent Residency « 
Naturalization « 
All Visas *
bringing in elementary school 
science teachers as consultants 
for the project. The grants were 
given after 60 institutions sub­
mitted proposals describing the 
instructional problem, relevant 
cognitive research, the proposed 
method of intervention, and bud­
getary information.
Klahr, his research assistant 
Jennifer Schnakenberg, a gradu­
ate in Psychology from the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, and Chen, 
have been investigating the sci­
ence reasoning abilities of chil­
dren, with a focus on the “Control 
of Variables Strategy,” or con­
cept of designing experiments 
that compare situations that dif­
fer in one variable while all other 
variables remain constant.
“Assessment tests indicate that 
children are variably poor in us­
ing the control strategy which is 
why we need to improve their 
skills. It is not beyond them to 
learn this concept. With training 
they are able to understand,” said 
Chen.
“Our main goal is to design 
the best method for teaching 
scientific reasoning skills in 
classrooms so students can ap­
ply this type of skill in various 
situations. The intent is to ulti­
mately incorporate a set of sci­
ence reasoning material into the
elementary school curriculum,” 
he added.
This study examines a child’s 
skill at scientific reasoning by 
conducting both lab-based stud­
ies as well as classroom studies. 
According to Schnakenberg, lab- 
based studies involve a pre-test 
assessing the child’s reasoning 
skills without any prior instruc­
tion, followed by a brief training 
session on the material and then 
a post-test. Classroom-based 
studies involve science reason­
ing instruction using material de­
signed in collaboration with area 
science teachers.
Three different groups of chil­
dren are used in the study. In one 
group, children take a pre-test, 
get trained in the subject matter, 
and then take a post-test. In the 
second group, children engage in 
different tasks but never get 
training. In the last group, chil­
dren are not asked any questions 
and the main intent is to see if 
simply manipulating the vari­
ables helps them learn. However, 
according to Schnakenberg, this 
method has proven to be the least 
successful.
Schnakenberg has been test­
ing the scientific reasoning skills 
of children in grades K-5 since 
the beginning of last year, al­
though she said the actual ma­
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Psychology professor David Klahr is part of the CMU research group 
that was awarded $725,000 in funding.
terial will probably be designed 
for third and fourth graders. The 
tasks involve comparing the 
speed of a ball down a ramp 
with a smooth surface versus a 
rough surface, examining how 
fast objects sink in water de­
pending upon various factors, 
and testing the effect of four 
weights on springs of varying 
dimensions.
Different grade levels are cho­
sen within the schools and per­
mission letters are sent to the 
parents of these children. 
Schnakenberg said the response 
she has received has been fairly 
positive. “Generally about 50 
percent of the parents allow
their children to participate, and 
at the two participating schools, 
the science teachers have been 
very supportive. The kids are 
finding the tasks pretty inter­
esting too,” she said. One factor 
that may influence this figure if 
the fact that sessions are con­
ducted during class time and 
often after school.
The other five institutions to 
receive research grants from the 
Foundation were Edinburgh Uni* 
versity in the United Kingdom, 
Georgia Institute of Technolog)'» 
University of Colorado at Boul­
der, University of Michigan at 
Ann Arbor, and the University of 
Pittsburgh.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997L3
Columnist ponders communication
The Player’s Manual
by Amit N. Kar
Right. Let’s start with one of the ba­
sics: communication. In college, in ca­
reers, in life, the ability to effectively 
communicate a thought is one of the 
most important skills a person can de­
velop. It strikes me as odd that so few 
people actually grasp the full impor­
tance of this. Example:
Sometime in the mid-50s, two huge 
ships plying the North Atlantic — one 
freighter, the other a luxury liner — 
found themselves steaming directly at 
one another. Sensing that something 
not-so-nice would happen if the situa­
tion was left to be, the two captains 
spoke briefly and decided one vessel 
would turn right and the other left. As 
result, something not so nice hap­
pened: the liner went down, taking 
hundreds of passengers with it, and 
the freighter limped into New 
York, minus bow and listing 
severely, after rescuing what 
remained of the liner’s comple­
ment. See, if you and I are fac­
ing each other, your right is my 
left so if you turn right and I 
turn left, we’re going to smack 
into each other. (Du-uh!) While 
this is a wonderful way to meet 
new people or test the efficacy 
of your pheremone-based co­
logne, it’s not a particularly 
great way to maneuver several 
hundred thousand tons of 
ocean-going metal.
The example is, of course, an 
extreme one, but the error at its 
root is a fundamental one that 
plagues this school: hearing but 
not listening, failure to com­
municate. And I’m not talking 
about acknowledging the dif­
ference between listening and 
hearing; I’m talking about
conciously making the decision to lis­
ten, choosing to communicate.
In an environment such as ours, its 
easy to develop a lazy attitude to listen­
ing. When you spend most of your time 
strapped into a chair, plugged into head­
phones, and glued to a monitor while 
pouring over a problem set, and the rest 
of your time snoring and drooling in 
class, it’s easy for the little audio-recep­
tors in our heads to say, “Oh well, I 
guess that’s it then. My useful life is 
over. I’ll just go die in this unused 
corner of my master’s head. Oh! My 
long-lost friend, sexual drive!”
CMU students have suffered in the 
work environment because their com­
munication skills are not cultivated. 
A corporate recruiter at last 
semester’s BOC mentioned that CMU 
has a reputation of turning out gradu­
ates who excel in their field, but who 
suffer in a ‘team’ situation because of 
under-developed people skills. A 
CMU professor is known for saying 
GSIA’s refusal to take the “warm, 
fuzzy, group-hug approach to man­
agement” taken by Harvard and Yale 
is a reason to be proud. Yale and 
Harvard graduates have been 
society’s leaders because they culti­
vate communication skills — the 
group-hug works for them.
While strong academics is mostly re­
sponsible for getting the new graduate’s 
foot in the career door, advancement is 
based on other factors: commitment, a 
nice smell, an extensive arsenal of stu­
pid party tricks, and the ability to inter­
act at all levels with an increasingly 
diverse, international work-force. Leav­
ing such an important part of personal 
development to sometime after gradua­
tion would serve only to retard growth in 
career, society, and in life. Indeed, col­
lege is the ideal place — where else are 
you going to find yourself in the midst of 
so many quacks, nuts, freaks, and loopies 
who will disagree with you on every 
possible issue?
So, take more discussion classes, join 
a student organization that deals with 
something that matters, strike up a con­
versation with a member of the custo­
dial staff when you find yourselves in an 
elevator together, take a professor out to 
lunch and find out what went wrong. 
Talk and listen as much as possible — 
it’s actually a great deal of fun.
Amit is apoopy-head and doesn't think 
there is anything wrong with this. As a 
matter of fact, he knows there are more 
poopy-heads out there and he thinks yoi 
should all just stand up and claim your 
proud heritage.
IWel Shapcott/Tartan Junior Staff
The “Millennium” approaches ...
Dean talks about book
By BECKY A- COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
“When I was in grade school, I real­
ized that I would possibly be living to 
see a new century. This excited me,” 
said Peter Stearns, dean of the College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences 
(H&SS). Last Sunday he held a book 
reading and signing at Barnes & Noble 
in Squirrel Hill for his new publica­
tion, Millennium III: Century XXI.
“The notion of living [to see 
the beginning of a period] is 
like watching a speedometer
— living to see the numbers 
roll over is exciting,” he said.
Steams’ new book deals with 
the fact that we are rapidly ap­
proaching not only a new cen­
tury, but also a new millen­
nium and the attitudes that ac­
company such a monumentous 
occasion. “The book is an effort 
to cover all the issues I could 
think of [that were] associated 
with providing some perspec­
tive on covering the millen­
nium,” he said. “We’ve only had 
one before, and there is a wide­
spread belief that when it oc­
curred, [many Christians be­
lieved] the end of the world was 
expected. It turns out this is 
largely, if not entirely, wrong.”
The issue of possible media 
exploitation of the millennium 
is also discussed in Steams’ 
book. “For us it leaves a few questions: 
number one, which is better, a good 
story or the truth? And number two, 
how much anxiety will be focused on 
this millennium? How many people 
and what kinds of people believe this is 
a countdown to the end of the world? 
I’m interested in the many groups that 
retain an interest in seeing the upcom­
ing millennium as a probable time of 
despair and destruction.”
When asked where he thinks the great­
est number of people who actually be­
lieve that the year 2000 signals an end 
to civilization as we knowithve, Steams 
replied, “That’s hard to calculate. It does 
look like there are more millennium 
groups in the United States than else­
where, [especially] in California.”
Stearns stressed that although the 
advent of a new millennium is impor­
tant, people tend to look more towar.d 
the new century as a standard time 
reference. In his book, he discusse.s 
peoples’ attitudes toward the fin de sieclp 
of the nineteenth century and what they 
can tell us about current attitudes to­
ward the end of the twentieth century.
“I try to talk about how predictions 
can be assessed and what kinds of
Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Peter Stearns, dean of H&SS read from his new 
book at Barnes & Noble Bookstore last Sunday.
historical motives underlie different pre­
dictions,” saidSteams. “One ofthe things 
that will happen is that there will be 
assessments ofthe twentieth century. It 
will be interesting to see how much 
change and how much continuity there 
is from the assessment made at the end 
of the nineteenth century.”
When looking at the optimistic reflec­
tions of end of the century editorials in the 
1900s, Steams said that he doesn’t think 
such a positive look back is probable at the 
end of this century. “From my vantage 
point as a historian, it’s really hard to look 
back and say, ‘Boy was this [century] 
great! Boy are we on the crest of progress! 
Our commentary for the twenty-first cen­
tury ... might be a lot more guarded.”
Professors question 
MLK day observance
MLK, from page LI
violent manner. “Protests of dif­
ferent types occur periodically. 
Students may certainly protest, 
with the only consideration that 
they not impede the business of 
other members of the commu­
nity or violate university poli­
cies. We have never had a pro­
test in which there was any such 
violation of other members of 
the community,” he said.
Though the University does 
not cancel classes on this day, 
Dean Murphy feels this fact 
should not undermine the im­
portance of the holiday for any­
one. He said, “Martin Luther 
King Day is obviously a very 
important day for the nation 
and for the University. I cer­
tainly understand why some 
people feel cancelling classes on 
this day would be a good idea, 
but I can assure you that the 
rationale behind not closing is 
not in any way a failure to rec­
ognize the importance of the day 
or of this great man and what he 
stands for. As a diverse interna­
tional community, we have 
many days of celebration shared 
by faculty, staff, and students. 
Many national and religious 
holidays are not celebrated by 
the cancellation of classes, but 
they are still clearly important 
to us. Martin Luther King Day, 
ospecially, has always been a 
time when we gather as a com­
munity in celebration.”
While students and faculty 
remain in class on Monday, a 
dumber of programs have been 
scheduled to take place on cam- 
Pus in observation of the holi­
day. A Community Tribute is 
being held at 4:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing. This ceremony 
include introductions by 
Everett Tademy, a welcoming 
sPeech by William Elliot, vice 
President for Enrollment, a talk 
conducted by the Reverend Doc­
tor Harold T. Lewis, a perfor­
mance by the Voices United Gos­
pel Choir, as well as presenta­
tions by students. An open cam­
pus reception will be held fol­
lowing the program. It is being 
co-sponsored by the Associate 
Provost, the Black Faculty and 
Staff Association, the Black 
Graduate Student Organiza­
tion, the Carnegie Mellon Ac­
tion Project, the School of Hu­
manities and Social Sciences, 
the Heinz School, the Office of 
the President, Student Life, 
SPIRIT, Student Activities, Stu­
dent Affairs, and the Voices 
United Gospel Choir.
Despite the University’s at­
tempt to honor King, some feel 
that these services are not ad­
equate commemoration of the 
leader’s beliefs. “Because the 
on-campus ceremonies that 
CMU has planned do not pro­
vide students with much of an 
opportunity to become involved 
in larger community struggles, 
I can only conclude that CMU 
does not really respect Dr. 
King’s legacy,” Woller said. “It 
likewise seems to me that the 
CMU schedule discourages us 
from recognizing that there 
might be aspects of our lives, 
such as community activism, 
which are not quite either work 
or play. I guess that is why the 
schedule includes ‘days on’ for 
work, and days off for midterm 
break, for spring carnival, and 
for spring break, but not for the 
King holiday.”
The University’s action has 
invoked similar feelings in 
many faculty, staff and stu­
dents. Linville said, “I think 
that to become a more positive 
presence for the Pittsburgh 
community, this school needs 
to see that it cannot remain 
aloof from the struggles waged 
by African-Americans for jus­
tice everyday all around it.”
Your homework just got easier.
4Tough homework problems are no match for the new
release of HUBproUBviU 3.0. Use it as easily as a calcula- 
for' tackle computations only HUBproUBviU can handle. 
You can even solve problems directly from your textbooks 
and assignments. HUBproUBd 
viUes new buttons and 
palettes provide quick point- 
and-click access to thousands 
of functions, formulas, and 
mathematical symbols.
Whether your courses are 
in engineering, calculus, statistics, finance, chemistry, physics, 
biology, psychology, or any other field of study where calculation
wx =ŸJf(Xl)A.X
b • ¦ 
....
z- n-
( i .ilk
is required, HUBproUBviU n­l aBtcrGBs is well suited for your needs. Less sophisticated 
technical software programs only offer limited, stripped-down student versions, but 
HUBproUBviU n­l aBtcrGBs gives you exactly the same power and functionality as 
our professional version, preferred at leading corporations, universities, and 
government organizations worldwide. Visit your local campus bookstore or call 
Wolfram Research at: 1 -800-943-9626 It/S, Cattili.
WOLFRAMRESEARCH
http://www.wolfram.<om/edu«ition/cnp
Mallienmli(a lot Students is ovoiloble lo all currently enrolled fulMime students. Student identification required. Malhematico (or Students is avmloble on Microsoft Windows, Macintosh; and Linux systems. 
Academic discounts are ovoiloble for professional versions of Mathemotico on all peisonal computers, workstations, and supercomputers, lab and site programs are olso ovoiloble.
j nc,41 iiWil U ttilmhvadiH iUvrc/i» liUir.wmrinAEcicraxifax, innA W »IWM.li*

---------------------------------------------------

SS««. Font Wileytoon@aol.com
writer» Group www.ivashingtonpost.cotnAviley
NON SEQUITUR &y

---------------------------------------------------

SCOTTADAMS@AOL.COME-mail: SCOTTADAMS®AOL.COMwww.unitedmedia.com
© 1997 United Feature Syndicate.® 1997 United Feature Syndicate. Inc.S 1997 Unitod Foature Syndicate, li
www.unitedmedia.comSAd2i*lS SCOTTA DAMS® AOL.COME-mail: SCOTTADAMS@AOL.COM
O 1997 United Feature Syndicate.O 1997 United Feature Syndicate.O 1997 United Feature Syndicate.

---------------------------------------------------

BY G.B. TRUDEAU
O.J. SIMPSON, PRIVATE 
- INVESTIGATOR, HITS 
I THE STREETS. |—
iioipyou THE GLOVE (WULPNTFrr ME. I TAKE A SMALL.
IS THERE 
ANYONE L 
ELSEUV- k 
I NO I NTH IS ! 
HOUSE, SIR?
'YES, SIR. 
THANK 
YOU FOR.
YOUR CO­OPERATICI.
ROBOTMAN ® by Jim Meddick
oi»u>/HEE uEg \ ifs.1V-oK''‘r¦Çro 
? , [ WEE HEW
S Af-ir»EE\te/ ----tf—'
"TW6 /WELCOME 7 BEtoMtóPKK/StiNTEi!.1 
TWOsm,wa- m~ipa>COMfcP 0 « YTy, *D" /£*'' DO«fififfistó a¿56
VJHWrIMSTiHGm&lF 
AF6 I GUNTER'S RE6NNED VOU >r HIS HEALTH- ,— 
P0iH6 WITH 1osro Sjrm 
"TiCKlEfAE V ¿7 ^EWmty^w /QA
I SAW A REPORT ON WEWHYARE V HEWS ABO^rr SLEEP EfaiNb
WPEflTAPIN6THE RE-FR\<5*EPAToR?
ITS A RARE CONDITION L\KE SLEEP- 
WMWHG...P»Pie RAlP THE; FRIDGE 
IN THEIR SLEEP, EM ODD COMBI­
NATIONS OP POOP- •• AND THE <WWAY TO KNOW YOU DO IT IS TO 
CATCH IT ON VIDEO-  S
mis morning,! woke up rnp m mm reekep
of TVNASALAP, PEANUT BUTTER mVm&j
&VJTWHW
ei/u< -.:WMCYOU
mm always
1 FOUND A 
TEDDY BEAR 
CRUDELY WOLDET» OUT 
v OF CREAM K CHEESE-
REEKS OF TUNA
SALAP, PEANUT
BUTTER AND
iOR'TOS
GONTBR.IOOK V WANT TO TW 
WHATPAPW \OTOU? /GOT YOU.'TS
me ViIdu<< 
Vidd'vir ?'~LECTER WoRfc\
IN "SILENCE„ 
0FWELAM9S^>/(Uf
|:dpuI Vi<dCp 'v:p hsdpul[
BEEN KEEPIN6 HIS HATES THE fAEALS DOWN.I'VE- / UET...THERE'S 
60T TO TAKE HIM % WAY WE CAN 
.TD THEVJET.../GETHINftTO<cO UNLESS WE CAKl
ftorr PpV_d/ :x <.eu[[
MidtMermF nie ON tAY
SHOES I <S0 AWAYI SHOO--I
“—T^fr3r/ apparentiy,TOT)/ &0NTER Li, HAD AlPO'S 
x v y VISCERAK/pC*f \ vy \ PLATTER" <xXX\ NCJv FOR 
(Xxxi L\JNCH
p.Si-[
r../c|:dpuI .' 
WftTCUPNSYTW IT ON.SE& HOW 
FUN? SEE HOW-
HE’S NOT 
BWlttfc IT.
UARW'S ONW HOPE. NOW IS THKVlHAT SECTION 
OF THE HABl-TRAIL CAW WITHSTAND HIGH/
1 VEIOCATV JP---------------------
\P£-ENTRy. /^N
I'fA 8RIN61N© UARRY THE HAMSTER TO 
SEE THE DOCTOR.. CAN X SEE WHO YOU'RE -----'
1 PONT THINK 1HATS SUCH A 6000 IDEA • (AY DOLE'S PRETT/ 
GRUMPY AND HE'S WEAR1N6 A SCARY HARNESS^
CARE-rt „ 
frfeC •# WANWA SEE
?'7>> V H\VA.rI L r isy \ wanna...
THERE'S X OHM. 7 UM.D0CT0R, IUU?T0Ne\N0W WOUIDNTPO 
WORE f^REA HE'S V^ATIFIWERE- THEePTD /PUSHlN6Y^^w^ 
EXAMINE./ H\S / TTR
h.eiP,y (O
\ mmmJi vm the poctor \ H08:\T TOOK DOESN'T eXPEcT ME H0\JD\N1 M3 \ US TD REPLACE THAT E£! J SECONDS TO \>RoBE >-..•^ESCAPETHESe^^.w1Wu<pIi'dp<[#P;25l 1Oo D^ V TOOK 8.3- 7 U K Ó
EAR,NOSE X THIS VET/I'VE NEVJER.
andthwatJrealiv SEEN sonter LOOVi OK- r WAS A V SO SUBDUEP... 
TTr1 ' M WAY WITH S-^4. Mrr* V ANIMALS, y ^
Now °c\,Ç:t I:BkLEgTE \gTE \¦:h Ec H: IUBRUSHING PROVES »T-/TOOTHBRUSH - LATELY
your E::Egi BIT¦ tEWb: H::y \¦Bymwnw < COWPLETELY \ (T TO CLEAN THE 
WOONtttG'SyJNCON SClOUS-/ GROUT BETUJEEtO 
TtXJTHBRVSH-hr-^iY THE SHOWER- /' fclvjitEs. rv^
WO*fJ 6ROSS.YOI/RE EATING A ^TlCK 
Of MARGARINE |N A HOT PC€> BUN; 
WITH COOLWHIP AND KETCHUP— 
<$ttSSS5—•
HEY.CCWEHER8- I'VE CAPTURED MY "SLEEP EATING" DISORDER ON v) IC&9-'
• >7 lite?r? sjtotI T Tv arris

---------------------------------------------------

(go£$) /\||CK TASCIATO
A-c+t*. * v»cir»f^ l»k.«s
•+* s«i WtKwselí o»» «fine 
«n¿ *u*\ «*«ur>4 +"V>< 
p«*-kin^ lof-. TK*» w€ 
c)ovtse ^»'vv. vty v»>H^ Utd
(7*
%
cr No. vJe. rA<rtout
«¦f beer.
I
ñx
f i+ w«j»A4Ke ttooA lV S.-Kfii I
L$l
rom
\jou- v^>e.ce.
... ***&. fW -V^VsA- X'«« \6*eK Osk ZStokj hSft*^ <*“ OTti*t,U
df *exf uJee.Ws Tw;<^ fcVe____________________________________
lN1feRHSTEt> Ny//y // ¡J j \ \ \WOW ‘FM WITH YOUR KAZAAMsJ! y 
^&R M ÍOrtfcS FOR W TZkRTAH^
m // i ii i \N \v^
• EDITORIAL ART?
• SToRY ART?
» GRAPHIC PESlé,N? 
' CAKTDON rao’
• \HFO é*RAP+4\CS?
» 1LUÜSTRAHOH?
S udNgaoUMgtglo rao’
gaev -ff4E URTfcN ART STAFFFor more infonnation contact Julee White at 268-2111 or email jwhite+'S*andrew.cmu.edu
Twisted Peteby David Wingrove

---------------------------------------------------

'«f!
Tradit
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
is not condoned by
Volume 91, Issue 13The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania20 January 1997DIVERSIONS
CMU Students Brave Chilly
Weattier for downhill Fun
julee White/Tartan Art Editai;
ih University.]
Its winter again, the time of 
when the ground freezes and the activi­
ties dry up. And being college students,
we’re generally broke. Sounds like there’s j:%d¥tnfere).
O00-o
n of traying carries on.
nothing to do, right?
Wrong. There’s an inexpensive way to 
have fun outside, and it takes no skill or 
brains to pull it off. It’s called traying or 
sliding, where you take a makeshift sled 
and throw yourself down hills for thrills. 
The most popular form is traying, where 
you take a tray from one of the dining 
services and attempt to slide down hills. 
Traying is so popular now that Dining 
Services notices a marked increase in 
tray disappearances during winter, but 
are completely unaware that they are 
being used as sleds by the student body.
The best places around campus for 
traying and the like are the hills around
Schenley park, ¿specially Flagstaff Hill 
and Scobell Hili. But, according to David 
Wingrove, junior logic and computation 
major, “It’d be better if CMU had a 
steeper hill.” Oh well, you can always 
explore the area for bigger and better 
hills. Besides, it couldn’t hurt to get
----, from campus for a few hours and
—of the city (yes, there is a city 
____).
For the real thrills, trays don’t always 
cut it. “The trays didn’t work, so we got 
garbage bags for Scobell hill,” says Sam 
Hoffman, sophomore mechanical engi­
neering major. Most students who have 
tried traying and sliding on garbage 
bags agree that the garbage bags work 
much better. The trays are flimsy and 
hardly frictionless, and overall, accord­
ing to Winter Mason, junior creative 
writing major, “They’re not very good 
sleds, garbage bags work better, but it’s 
fun to steal from CMU.” The method of 
sliding you use would then depend on 
whether you prefer the thrill of flying 
down hills or the thrill of heisting cheap 
plastic trays from your alma mater.
There are several methods of garbage 
bag sliding. You can climb in feet first
and slide down. For this method, you 
can cut out holes for your feet, giving the 
garbage bag an underwear feel. You can 
ride on top of the whole thing and hope 
that a slight bump or divot doesn’t buck 
you off. And then there’s the method 
used by only the bravest (or craziest) of 
sliders, where you throw the bag over 
your head and hope you don’t run into 
anything solid.
But there are also a few dangers in 
traying or sliding, as Rich Svinkin, jun­
ior history and policy double major points 
out, “Never, ever tray down a hill unless 
you know what you are doing, and know 
that the pond at the bottom is frozen.” 
Half frozen ponds are only the begin­
ning. Some of the most popular traying 
runs have some nasty surprises along 
their way. Trees are an ever-present 
danger, but also spice up an otherwise 
dull run. One the best hills near campus, 
on the Schenley golf course, finishes by, 
dumping you out in the street if you 
don’t stop before then.
If you go traying or sliding and find 
that it doesn’t strike your fancy, you can1 
always have a snowball fight, or build a 
snowman, or do some other silly snow 
activity. But try traying at least once in 
you academic career; you might find you 
like it, especially since it’s free.
Snow enthusiasts hi
By JOY FERGUSON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Wax those boards, sharpen 
your edges, I believe it’s ski sea­
son. Okay, I realize Western 
Pennsylvania isn’t exactly 
known for its incredible terrain,
| and I can safely assume that 
j most students didn’t come to 
CMU for the “great skiing,” but 
I there are options for us ski and 
j snowboard types.
As the snow and cold blow our 
| way, many of us are probably 
| wondering what is available in 
terms of where to ski and how 
to get there. Eliot Hsu, sopho- 
I more industrial management 
major and avid snowboarder 
from Colorado said, “I just spent 
all break riding the phat stepes 
| of Colorado, and I can tell you, 
it’s lame out here.” But Eliot,
| don’t despair! Although the ar- 
| eas around here may look more 
: Hke molehills than mountains, 
they still have lifts, lodges, and are also available. As Howard 
snow sometimes. said, “any combination they
The closest area is Seven want, we can do for them.” Res- 
Runs. I mean, Seven Springs, ervations are required and Rider 
t Actually, Seven Springs had 20 pointed out, “usually the first 
trails open and 12 lifts in opera- trip is a lot of people.” So get hold 
I tion as of last week. Another of these guys ASAP if you’re ready
option is Hiddei? 
still more areas can be fo 
our neighboring states, 
mation can easily be 
on these areas by 
various web sites. For 
http:I / www.intellicas&com 
ski I gives up-to-date informa­
tion on every ski area imagin­
able, including conditions and 
temperature.
However, many of us don’t have 
the money or transportation to 
take these trips. That’s where 
our friendly campus organiza­
tions come into play. The Cam­
pus Ski Connection, headed by 
Lee Rider and Mike Howard, both 
sophomore industrial manage­
ment majors, provides discounted 
tickets, rentals, and transporta­
tion to Seven Springs every Sat­
urday night starting January 
25th. If just a lift ticket is needed, 
the cost is $20. Add $9 for trans­
portation. Discounted ski and 
snowboard rentals and lessons
» hit the í?¦ ? OValley, and ctojîibthé'bur 
i be found;in? oïWon’œlike
slopes
^ dxjp&bt _
inp £> il^ou a'ijke-more c^ntact with 
and snowboarders, 
.e Ski Club here on 
Kyle Oppen- 
amore electrical and 
engineering major 
said, “Thd^ki Club is a club for 
anybody interested in skiing, 
snowboarding, skiboarding, or 
telemarking (or any other simi­
lar activity).” Newly revitalized, 
the club is planning all sorts of 
activities for this winter’s ski 
season. Plans being considered 
include larger overnight-type 
trips to further away places and 
on-campus activities like tune- 
up clinics and movies. However, 
Oppenheim said, “Our main 
goal is to get out to the slopes by 
hooking up people with cars to 
those without.” Plan to attend 
the Winter Activities Fair to 
find out more about this organi­
zation.
So don’t get frustrated and 
hang up your ski boots just yet. 
Get involved with the campus 
ski organizations or start sav­
ing money for Spring Break in 
Colorado. Let’s all hope for some 
good snow this season. See you 
on the slopes!

---------------------------------------------------

is looking for a few daring individuals to help produce the longest run­
ning record of Carnegie Mellon’s history. Experience isn’t necessary; 
just the guts to take on a real challenge, the fortitude to learn a few 
valuable.skills, and the spirit to take on the world.
All departments — news, forum, sports, features, diversions, photo, 
darkroom, business, production, and on-line development— are look­
ing for people with the right stuff.
Contact us atx8-2111, or email pb3s@andrew. Even better, look for us 
at the Spring Activities Fair on Thursday, January 30. Come up to us 
and ask what you can do. It’ll be the best question you’ll ask at Carnegie 
Mellon.
and

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997L9
Hewlett exhibit manipulates 
common images of women
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
The manipulated photographic im- 
Tes of Cara Jaye’s one-woman art 
¿how, “Flying against the Ceiling”, at
photographed wearing paper wings, 
which makes sense in relation to her 
goal of bringing dignity to the nude 
female figure. The concept of ascent is 
continued in the photographs where 
Jaye has transferred to tiles and sus- 
tJhe Hewlett Gallery in the College of pended from the ceiling—pictures
pine Arts, clearly have a lot of thought 
behind them. Just as clearly, they’re 
the work of a skilled artist and photog­
rapher. Desirable as these character­
istics are, Jaye can’t quite overcome 
her use of cliched imagery to create a 
completely satisfy­
ing exhibit.
Jaye’s repetoire 
Consists of images of 
Ititchen sinks,
^jrings, and women 
ijoth dressed and 
¿ndressed. Most of 
¿er photographs are 
printed on cloth 
splattered with 
strategically placed 
stains. Also recur­
ring in her work are 
women cleaning up 
the stains. In Jaye’s 
view, this collection 
6f images speaks to 
tjhe concept of how 
^omen are por­
trayed in both art 
¿ndin society. More 
specifically, the 
stains bring to mind 
¿he traditionally 
¿eld view of women as cleaners rather 
than creators. “For the female,” she 
says in her artist’s statement, “stains 
evoke embarrassment and shame, and 
it is the woman’s job to remove stains.”
Likewise, the nude female body is 
commonly seen as cause for embar­
rassment and manipulation. By focus­
ing on women cleaning up these stains,
which are literally “flying against the 
ceiling.”
Many of Jaye’s images, including 
pictures of sinks so clear and sharp 
that one can read the fine print on the 
bottles of Woolite or Joy and a brown 
and red stained pic­
ture of a headless 
winged statue, are 
striking on their 
own, but for a con­
ceptual show like 
this one, success de­
pends more on the 
strength of the over­
all idea behind the 
exhibit than on the 
merits of the indi­
vidual works. By 
this criteria, the 
concept has some 
weak points.
Not that the 
show’s intellectual 
framework is a com­
plete washout—far 
from it. Reading the 
artist’s statement, 
in which Jaye ex­
plains the thought 
behind the imagery, 
allows the viewer to appreciate a co­
herence and depth not easily apparent 
from the images alone. Yet the central 
conceit of tying together stains, 
women’s nude bodies, and wings seems 
contrived. The main images of Jaye’s 
work seem tired and unoriginal. After 
all, exactly how many thousands of 
times have wings been used as a sym-
Courtesy Hewlett Gallery
Cara Jaye uses unusual materials to 
change perceptions of women in art.
Jaye hopes to cleanse perceptions of bol of uplift. The wings and the stains
t’he female nude.
For Jaye, the wings are a “personal 
metaphor for individual achievement” 
in any one of a number of different 
arenas. While hardly unique as a sym­
bol, the wings do effectively bring to 
i^iind the ideas of uplift and achieve­
ment. Many of her nude models are
get her point across clearly and effec­
tively, but this has been shown by 
many artists before her. Yet Jaye’s 
show would have been much more sat­
isfying and absorbing if she come up 
with a way to present her theme just 
as eloquently using fresher or more 
surprising imagery.
The Relic provides thrills
Punk compilations easy on the wallet
By BRADLEY W. ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
When looking for new music, used 
CD stores rarely solve your problems. 
You always run the risk of wasting 
your eight bucks on something that 
doesn’t float your boat or is completely 
derivative of everything else in your 
collection. Considering the current 
carbon-copy state of punk, the odds 
look even worse for the discriminat­
ing punter who’s just spent the day 
freezing his tuckus off begging out­
side the Beehive. Well, suffer no more, 
ye of little love for “alternative” radio, 
welcome to the land of “compilation 
discs.” Three of the most popular 
labels for roots ruckus have recently 
released extensive sampler CDs for 
the short of cash flow.
Who: Various Artists 
What: Punk-O-Rama Vol.2 
Label: Epitaph Records
<S| Who: Various Artists 
hl What: Survival of the Fattest 
rh Label: Fat Wreck Chords
Who: Various Artists 
What: Heide Sez 
Label: Lookout! Records
Probably the most lucrative label, 
Epitaph (run by ex-Bad Religion gui­
tarist Brett Guerewitz), offers up its 
second installment of showcase tal­
ent, Punk-O-Rama Vol. 2. Epitaph 
has always carried the biggest names, 
particularly Rancid, Pennywise, 
NOFX, and the Bad Religion back 
catalog, but the biggest news is their 
signing of the newly reformed De- 
scendents, New Bomb Turks, and Cali­
fornia legends TSOL.
The label is known for championing 
the hard-hitting speed-based South­
ern California skate style of punk, 
and the disc kicks off with the 
caffeinated “Coffee Mug” by the De- 
scendents, and later brings back 
TSOL’s infamous ode to necrophilia, 
“Code Blue.” Still, the focus of Punk- 
O-Rama Vol.2 is to give mass-expo- 
sure to the newer bands like Pulley 
and Millencolin, whose fabulously 
breakneck melody makes their track
“Bullion” a shining beacon for the fu­
ture of the label. The greatest gem 
among the bunch is the Mudhoney/ 
SNFU side project Me First and the 
Gimme Gimmes and their hilarious pit- 
happy cover of the Billy Joel torch song 
“Only the Good Die Young.” You get all 
this and heaven too for around four 
dollars....
The sound of punk was founded on 
bringing back the simplicity of 50’s rock 
and roll during the pretentious wank of 
the bloated 70’s arena rock landscape, 
and Lookout! Records may well be the 
last stronghold of “true” punk. Heide 
Sez contains 26 tracks which jump from 
lounge, to surf, to goony Sha-Na-Na 
antics. Sweet Baby are the consum­
mate “Beatles-on-ephidrine,” with 
group harmonies and an abandon that 
seems to come right out of the movie 
Backbeat. Queer-core 
champions Pansy Division 
bring a camp-fire sing- 
along style that is almost 
as cute as the sugar shock 
of Cub’s “Magic Eight 
Ball,” an ode to 
everybody’s favorite infal­
lible fortune teller. Spot­
light darlings such as the 
ska beat of Citizen Fish 
and the manly crunch of 
Avail share space with a 
unfathomable glut of 
bouncy boy-meets-girl- 
and-yearns tunes which 
strangely don’t seem out 
of place next to a childish 
send-up by the Phantom 
Surfers. For less than 
twelve dollars, Heide Sez 
scores with diversity, flat- 
out fan, and well, 26 songs.
Finally, there’s Survival of the Fat­
test from Fat Wreck Chords. Run by Fat 
Mike from NOFX, this label has con­
stantly been bashed for all its bands 
sounding like well, NOFX. True, you 
hear plenty of the NOFX guitar tone 
(edgy as all get-out) but the bands are 
amazingly discemable from each other, 
and NOFX themselves turn in one of 
the weaker tracks. The infamous hu­
mor is rife on Survival, from strange 
out-of-left-field tempo changes to the 
frank rejection conversation in Diesel 
Boy’s “Titty Twister.” The best political
band still around, Propagandhi (who 
always sounded a bit like NOFX to 
begin with,) let fly with their most 
valuable Scrabble words in “Nation 
States,” while Wizo makes the most of 
their ignorance of the English lan­
guage by performing a kick-ass Oil­
iest, “Raum der Zeit,” completely in 
their native German. Oh, and Me First 
and the Gimme Gimmes make an­
other appearance, this time destroy­
ing that old hick hoe-down “Country 
Roads.” Is there stuff that sucks dookie 
on Survival of the Fattest? Sure, but at 
least they were nice enough to tag the 
CD with a note that says “DON’T PAY 
MORE THAN $4.”
All three of the compilations are worth 
their punk points, so it comes down to 
tastes. Do you want to stick with the 
familiar? Grab Epitaph! sPunk-O-Rama
Courtesy Lookout! Records 
Heidi Sez compilation provides listeners with 26 
diverse tracks for a small price.
Vol.2. If you like your punk poppy and 
light-hearted, Heide Sez is your best 
bet. Survival of the Fattest is more or 
less for those looking for fast and me­
lodic new school stuff. Still, the purpose 
of compilations is to entice you to buy 
more from the label, which is a capital­
ist scheme, so if you buy these you’re a 
sell-out tool, you goddamn poser. Go 
listen to Green Day.
By the way, if you took that seri­
ously, you’re an idiot and missing out 
on some damn good music. Rock forth, 
me brethern, Johnny Rotten won’t 
hate you....
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
! Are you superstitious? Do you 
pick a penny up off the ground — 
but only if it’s heads up? Do you 
feel that broken mirrors yield 
seven years of bad luck? Do you 
avoid walking under ladders — 
or over dead bodies? There is a 
myth from a tribe in the Brazil­
ian jungle which involves the
What: The Relic 
Director: Peter Hyams 
Company: Paramount 
Pictures
Kothoga. The Kothoga is a ter­
rifying creature which when “con­
jured,” will destroy your enemies. 
But is it only a myth?
In The Relic, Margo Green 
(Penelope Ann Miller, Carlito’s 
y/ay, The Shadow) is an evolu­
tionary biologist working at the 
Natural History Museum in Chi­
cago. After a series of murders, 
police Lieutenant Vincent 
P’Agosta (Tom Sizemore, Natu­
ral Born Killers, Heat) begins to 
find that the murderer may not 
be human.
The film did what I hoped it 
^ould do — it scared me. Sure, 
I’m not going to have nightmares 
from it, but the thrill was there, 
2nd I jumped on cue, just as the 
rest of the audience seemed to 
respond. Director Peter Hyams 
{2010, The Presidio) followed the 
Alien approach to suspense — 
don’t show you much, and let the 
anxiety build.
However, when the creature 
^as finally shown, it was one so 
hideous, that you know had you 
encountered it, you wouldn’t 
Stand a chance. This film is gory. 
Not necessarily like a slasher 
film, but it comes close some­
times. The Kothoga kills people 
^ ripping off their heads, and 
bating part of their brain (the 
reason for which is explained in 
the movie). D’Agosta does not
want the museum to host its gala 
opening for the Superstition Ex­
hibit, since the murderer had not 
been caught. But, the Mayor (who 
will be in attendance) would be 
upset if it weren’t to occur. So, 
the gala must go on. Good idea? 
Bad idea.
This spells “lunch” for the 
Kothoga! The brutal attacks are 
skillfully accomplished through 
the clever mix of editing, Stan 
Winston Studios’ animatronics, 
and VIFX’s computer graphics. 
Isn’t it great when you can watch 
a man run towards the camera 
while being chasedby the Kothoga, 
get caught, and watch his head 
being ripped off — in one take? It 
may be the sick side of me that 
loves stuff like that, but the movie 
isn’t all like that. There are quiet 
moments which have a bit of mys­
tery to them - how did the Kothoga 
come to be? That is what Margo 
must find out.
I’ll be honest—the acting is not 
great. Penelope Ann Miller, while 
aveiy talented actress, cannothold 
the audience by looking scared, or 
using her computer to access “the. 
internet”. Tom Sizemore, looking 
like George Clooney, is too soft- 
spoken to be a lieutenant in charge 
of a murder investigation. But it is 
the Kothoga that steals the show. 
A creature which is composed ge­
netically of different species, it is 
repulsive to look at, yet I found 
myself wanting to see more of it. I 
find myself continually impressed 
with the new applications of com­
puter graphics in the movies nowa­
days. Everyone has seen Jurassic 
Park, it seems, and with The Lost 
World: Jurassic Park coming this 
May, there won’t be a shortage of 
dinosaurs. But since the Kothoga 
is composed of different species, it 
is harder to work with than a dino­
saur (if you take my meaning).
The finale, which certainly kept 
the adrenaline pumping, is worth 
the price of admission (at a mati­
nee). But you might as well go 
ahead and enjoy the film as well— 
because we all like to be scared.
ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING AT CARNEGIE MELLON
Informational Seminar: February 5,1997
6:00 wtp University Center, Dowd Room 
Refreshments will be served 
Interviews: February 6,1997
Principal Fields of specialization currently include but are not limited to:
• Optical Space Communications
• Signal Processing and Detection
¦ Satellite Communications Systems
• Satellite Location and Tracking
• Electro-Optical Technology
• Software Development/Scientific 
Programming
• Cognitive Science
' Radar Systems Development & 
Scientific Analysis
* Digital System Design 
' Solid State Devices 
1 RF/Microwave/Antennas 
1 Air Traffic Control Systems 
' Multiprocessor Computer Systems
¦ Advanced Air Defense Systems
Located in the heart of New England’s high-technology belt, Lincoln Laboratory is within 
easy reach of the region's most beautiful beaches and mountains and less than 15 
miles from downtown Boston with its diverse cultural, educational and athletic events.
Stop by the Placement Office to find out more about our scheduled informational semi­
nars and interview dates or send your resume to:
Office of Human Resources Fax: (617) 981 -7086
Lincoln Laboratory Equal Opportunity Employer, m/f/d/v
Massachusetts Institute of Technology U.S. Citizenship Required
244 Wood Street, CN96 Web site: http://www.ll.mit.edu
Lexington, MA 02173-9108
LINCOLN LABORATORY
MWYYWAhuYGUUY IEYUIUuUG Tf TGAhETVTgy

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997
Critic picks the top ten flix of 1996
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Forum. Co-editor
play about the Salem witch tri- for stars Woody Harrelson and 
als for the screen, and it is Courtney Love. The People vs. 
y handled nicely by director Larry Flynt is in theatres now.
f On the whole, 1996 was an Nicholas Hytner. Look for 5. Courage Under Fire, 
.unremarkable year for movies. Winona Ryder on Oscar’s Best Though Meg Ryan seems mis- 
jt wasn’t as boring as 1995, Actress list. The Crucible is in cast, this story of the messy 
tyhen gems like II Postino and theatres now. cover-up of the death of an Army
Antonia’s Line were few and far 7. Lone Star. An engrossing helicopter pilot in Desert Storm
between, but it wasn’t 
as exciting as 1993,
•¿which saw Schindler’s 
list, The Fugitive, Short 
£uts, and The Remains 
of the Day, to name only 
a few.
There were some ma­
jor stand-outs, however,
.and the following is a 
Jjist of the year’s ten best 
films. Several of them 
,$re playing in theatres 
now, but a few — those 
Released earlier in the 
¡¿ear, and we’re hoping 
the Academy won’t for­
get them — are avail­
able on video, or will be 
soon.
10. Dead Man Jim
J1 armusch’s cerebral jour- 
jney through the redefined 
^estern landscape of 
¿^merica is terrifying, im­
mediately engrossing,
$nd beautifully shot.
'Dead Man will hit video 
stores on Jan. 28.
9. Flirting With Disaster. 
The great strength of this com­
edy from writer-director David 0. Russell (Spanking the Mon­
key) is his sharp, unpredictable 
screenplay about a man (Ben 
^Stiller) in search of his biologi­
cal parents. Flirting With Di­
saster is scheduled for video re­
lease in March.
"¦ 8. The Crucible. Arthur 
fMiller has skillfully adapted his
©1996 Twentieth Century Fox Winona Rider stars in The Crucible — one of the 
year's best films.
murder mystery and a quirky 
love story, Lone Star crosses 
boundaries that only writer- 
director John Sayles could vio­
late. Lone Star is currently 
playing in selected cities.
6. The People vs. Larry 
Flynt. Though hot director Mi-
remains effective and 
moving. Courage Under 
Fire comes to video on 
Feb. 11.
4. The English Pa­
tient. Shot and written 
with grace and style, 
this emotional story of a 
great romance hindered 
by war is sure to be a hit 
with Academy voters, 
and rightfully so. And 
Ralph Fiennes is one of 
the best actors working 
in films. The English Pa­
tient is in theatres now.
3. Shine. Australian 
director Scott Hicks has 
made a marvelous film 
of the life of piano vir­
tuoso David Helfgott, 
with great acting. Shine 
is currently playing in 
selected cities.
2. Fargo. The Coen 
brothers have made the 
best film of their career: 
a horrific tale of murder 
and conspiracy in Min­
nesota, the friendliest state in 
the Union. Fargo is available 
on video now.
1. Heavy. This little-known 
film from writer-director James 
Mangold is the perfectly con­
structed, wonderfully moving 
tale of an obese cook and the 
object of his unrequited love.los Forman’s best work, this 
film — a fascinating bio-pic of Let’s hope Oscar is keeping his 
the publisher of Hustler maga- eyes open. Heavy will be avail- 
zine — is a great achievement able on video in March.
Bands rock the University Center
By TOM LIN
Tartan Staffwriter
If Monorchid, Jumbo, and 
Deadworks sound familiar to 
you, then you are either a huge 
indie rock fan or you happened
have you jumping up and down 
or at least demanding a refund.”
Personally, I would have fallen 
into the latter category, but 
those attending the show would 
undoubtedly have disagreed 
with my opinion. Though I 
to walk into the UC last Fri- caught some of the melody and Downey and Colin Crawford 
day. If you were anywhere a lot of the rhythm, I didn’t get on guitar, David Duncil on 
near the Conan 
Room, then it would 
have been near im­
possible to have 
missed the ex­
tremely loud and (at 
times) indistin­
guishable lyrics that 
poured out of the 
door and shook the 
walls. Though not 
all of the music was 
bad, too much of it 
was enough to 
dampen any enjoy­
ment that the aver­
age listener may 
have gleaned from
the two hour long set. much else from Monorchid.
Monorchid, a Washington, Jumbo, was in my opinion,
D.C. band, is composed of the best ofthe bands that played 
former members of bands Ig- on Friday. Jumbo is made up of favor besides the ability to 
nition and Circus Lupus. They Neil Andrus taking care of both inspire crazed antics among 
are Chris Thomson handling vocals and guitar, Jason Jouver 
on guitar, Keith Smallwood 
playing bass, and Brian 
Garback on drums. With the 
strongest melodies, the clearest, 
most restrained drum section, 
and fairly good hooks, Jumbo 
had several moments of strong 
musical artistry that made up 
for mediocre stretches in their 
songs. Unfortunately, the vo­
cals were almost completely 
into question, the last lines of drowned out by the instru- 
the description ring true. “The ments, which minimized the bringing these bands to 
five-man music ensemble will impact of most songs. It'was Carnegie Mellon.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing Editor 
Jumbo played for its dedicated fans Friday night.
the vocals, Chris Hamley and 
Andy Cone on the guitars, 
Andy Coronado playing bass, 
and Tom Allnut on the drums. 
They have been described by 
their record label, Simple Ma­
chines, as “Southern boogie, 
post-traumatic stress disor­
der, ‘Switched on Bach,’ and 
EST...” Though the accuracy 
of this estimate may be called
lucky that the instruments 
were as strong as they were.
Finally, the third band, and 
the least enjoyable, was 
Deadworks. Deadworks is a 
five-person band, with Dave 
Ambrose doing vocals, Keith
bass, and Adam 
Windisch playing 
the drums. There 
were few bright 
spots in Deadworks’ 
set, and many 
strikes against 
them. Not the least 
of these were the 
several moshing 
participants who ac­
tively slammed 
against each other, 
the floor, and the 
lead singer. Aside 
from the audience, 
however, the band 
itself was rather 
grating. With little melody 
and screamed lyrics, 
Deadworks had little in its
its mosh-happy fans. In its 
defense, however, it is true 
that many members of the au­
dience enjoy this style of per­
formance, citing the emo­
tional release that propels 
these bands.
Though not stellar, the 
performances of Monorchid, 
Jumbo, and Deadworks at the 
UC were enjoyable to a de­
gree, and the organizers of 
the event deserve kudos for
Award winning foreign films arrive at theaters and stores around Pittsburgh
By WLADIMIR 
THEARNByYJBI
Tartan Staffwriter
5
-, This new year is a very promis­
ing one with respect to new mov­
ies. In fact, a couple of treasures 
¦have already opened in Pitts­
burgh, including Breaking the 
Waves, the new movie by Lars 
von Trier that won the Grand 
¦Prize at Cannes Film Festival 
ifcst year. Also worthy of men­
tion, the latest from Manoel de 
pliveira hit video, and the 
Carnegie Museum of Art just 
started this winter’s Latin Ameri­
can series.
breaking the Waves
When one thinks of a von Trier 
movie, elaborate convolutions of 
writing and photography come 
¿o mind. In Zentropa, he mingled 
.Weimar cinema references and
World War Two-movie charac­
ters with post-modern style. 
More recently, in The Kingdom, 
the beloved genre of medical 
drama was driven all the way to 
the supernatural.
In Breaking the 
Waves he seems to 
have stepped 
back a bit from 
stylistic mischief 
to concentrate in 
this beautiful and 
deeply religious 
story.
The film is the ¦¦¡¦¦¦¦I 
story of Bess 
(Emily Watson in an astonish­
ing performance). She lives in a 
small Puritan village on the shore 
of Scotland. Over the reproaches 
ofthe town elders, she marries a 
handsome oil rig worker from 
out of town. Overcome by feel­
ings she is told to hide, she gives 
way to happiness. That is until 
her husband is paralyzed in an 
accident and asks her to take 
lovers and then to come back and
“...[Breaking the Waves] will 
move you and perhaps give 
you hope, even though it might 
break your heart/'
tell him about it, a Scherezade to 
keep him alive. His wish becomes 
for her a calvary, and Bess be­
comes a saint through this “per­
verse” sexuality and shows ev­
eryone what true devotion is. As 
I said, it is a religious story, but
not one about the institution of 
the church, but about the real 
faith that lies in Bess.
Breaking the Waves looks gor­
geous without elaboration or pre­
fabricated lighting. 
The entire movie is 
shot handheld, and I 
don’t think Robby 
Mueller had done this 
much handheld since 
the Wenders days. The 
immediacy of the im­
ages lets you feel with
_______ the characters but at
¦¦¦M the same time realize 
that Bess’ faith may 
be impossible to attain by the 
rest of us. In short, this is a true 
masterpiece of a movie that I 
urge you to go see. It is not ma­
nipulative cinema like the kind 
we are so used to here; but never­
theless it will move you and per­
haps give you hope, even though 
it might break your heart. 
Shakespeare and the Devil in 
Portugal 
New on video is 1995’s The Con­
vent, Manoel de Oliveira’s strange 
fable set in a monastery in Portu­
gal. The film, beautifully shot and 
edited, has a perhaps indescrib­
able quality through the actors’ 
gestures, and through the writing 
itself. However silly this may 
sound, the movie is like an X-files 
episode directed by Antonioni. 
John Malkovich plays an English 
professor bent on proving that 
Shakespeare was really a Span­
iard. To do so he visits a remote 
monastery in Portugal with his 
wife (Catherine Deneuve) in hope 
of finding a revelatory document. 
Soon the story turns into a spiri­
tual parable, a lethargic wrestling 
with the devil set in the remnants
of paradise (which happens to be 
pretty close to the entrance ofhelTjv 
Strange and hypnotizing, The Conx 
vent is indeed a rare gem.
Other stuff...
This winter, the Carnegie Mu­
seum of Art brings us two interna­
tional series: Asian cinema and 
Latin American cinema. The first 
series includes the trendy crime 
story Chunking Express. Over in' 
the Latin American series is i 
premiere ofEliseo Subiela’s Dark 
Side of the Heart. This one looks 
like another great fable in the style 
of his “Man Facing Southeast” so I 
blindly recommend it.
Breaking the Waves is playing 
at the Harris theater through, 
January 30. Dark Side of the! 
Heart will play this weekend onl$ 
at the Carnegie. All other movies' 
mentioned are available on video.
Mellon
College
of
Science
Dean’s List 
Fall 1996
The faculty and staff of 
the Mellon College of 
Science congratulate 
our students for then- 
outstanding academic 
performances during the 
fall semester.
Biological SciencesChemistryMathematics
Bernstein-Hanley, Isaac *Allen, Shannen *Ambrose, David *
Bhaumik, ApalaBlanton, W. Bo *Asher Groff, Jana *
Bhothinard, Tanya *Devine, Annemarie *Carmichael, Christine
Bianchi, Nicholas *Gherman, Benjamin *Casciato, Jr., Nicholas
Cerrone, Richelle *Hauser, RachelChow, Joyce *
Cheng, Mimi *Kern, AlisonDouglas, Ty
Connor, Rebecca *Luguya, RaymondEgan, Matthew
Deutschbauer, Adam *McDermott, Nancy *Foss, Mikil *
Eck, Jeffrey *McIntyre, KerryFridd, Jennifer *
Filippino, Scott *McKesson, JasonGaal, Michael *
Gamaluddin, Shereen *Morales, Carl *Jamison, Ruth *
Garcia, Nicole *Neal, Everett *Kich, Jessica *
Gokhale, Abhay *O’Malley, Jennifer *Miller, Mary *
Jenkins, Rebecca *Podwika, Matthew *Moreno, Patience *
Johnson, ChristopherProekt, Alex *O’Shea, Eileen *
Kazlman, AngelSlaby, Emily *Pham, Karin
King, DouglasSmithline, Deborah *Pivarski, Melanie *
Lau, ChrisSolitro, Matthew *Tilkin, Daniel
Lii, Dih-Yng *Sun, JunWalton, William *
Lin, RayVega, M. DoloresWeber, Keith *
Maneckshana, Bejon *Zeiszler, Lee *Weiner, Craig *
Matcuk, George * 
Moore, JodiPhysicsMCS First-Year Students
Munoz, CynthiaDoty, JohnAdams, Karen *Park, Jung *Goetzblohm, Rodolfo *Averbuch, Michael *Patel, Niraj *Kuah, Aik-Meng *Beal, Jeff *Perez, RosemaryMcCann, James *Calisti, Carolyn *Rail, Christina *McGahagan, Helena *Cisar, StephenRamaprasad, Saroja *Merrelli, Aronne *Conlin, LauraStevenson, Todd *Miller, Gregg *Coval, KaraStoddard, Victoria *Pope, Adrian *Crossman, ColinStraud, Sarah *Presby, AndrewDavis, Shane *Suntoke, Tara *Purdy, Kirstin *Dennis, Cindi *Trivedi, Anjana *Randerson, PatrickFay, Ira *Van, PhilSoha, Aron *Flynn, Darin *Vibhakar, Neel *Steiner, Andrew *Fooksman, David *Zornetzer, Gregory *Stitely, Keith *Foster, Jonathan *
Whittaker, ThomasGibson, Karen *
First-Year Students, cont.
Griffith, Michelle *
Hamlin, Gregory 
Hirako, Taisuke *
Huang, Jay *
Joshi, Deval 
Kaminsky, Cheryl 
Kusumoto, Ryuji *
Litzinger, Elizabeth *
Luckey, Laurel 
Luk, Johnson *
Merlin, Jessica *
Min, Gilbert 
Quirk, Christopher *
Retchless, Adam 
Roke, Michael 
Romesberg, Merle *
Romoff, Rebecca 
Sandler, Melinda *
Scheiblich, Paul *
Simmons, Morgan *
Steinhoff, Bradley *
Sullivan, Devin * 
Tangboondouangjit, Aram 
Teslovich, Tanya 
Vieta, William 
Walsh, Andrew *
Yang, Y. Mary *
You can also find the Fall 1996 
Dean’s List (and the Dean’s 
List criteria) on the Office of 
Undergraduate Affairs web site;
http://info.mcs.cmu.edu/
* Dean’s List High Honors

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 20 January 1997 Lli
DH 2210
11111 > »111 ii »
movies you may have seen before....,
By JOHN BIGGS & AMIT KAR
Thursday, January 23
Blue Velvet
This one’s about a helicopter and love. It begins 
with a young man (Kyle MacLachlan) porking 
Isabella Rosellini. And of course, who wouldn’t? It 
goes on to star a young Dean Stockwell and Den­
nis Hopper and his knife.
Featuring the directing talents of David Lynch, 
this one is chock full of all the things that make 
good drama: descant, leitmotif, nitrous oxide, 
somebody’s ear, monosodium glutamate, and a 
gripping climax. The helicopter plays a subtle, 
but vital role as Isabella Rosellini’s estranged 
husband and guru. A cult classic, this film is best 
enjoyed with a cold beer and a manic depressive 
attitude.
At 7:30, 10pm, and 12:30am
In DH 2210
Friday, January 24
The Island of Dr. Moreau
Actually, this movie is not so much about his 
island as it is about the body of water separating 
it from the mainland. Such a body of water is 
usually referred to as a sound — but a geographi­
cal term used mainly by readers of Tom Clancy 
books.
Starring the evergreen Marlon Brando, who 
excels in his role as the island, this movie ex­
plores the theme of genetic experimentation and 
cellulite removal as dealt with in H.G. Well’s 
novel, “The Island of Lost Souls.” Brando is large 
and his every movement causes the palms on this 
picturesque island to lilt and sway with abrupt 
beauty. A modem classic, this movie is best en­
joyed with dark sunglasses and Goldschlager.
At 7:30, 10pm, and 12:30am
In McConomy Hall
Saturday, January 25
Die Hard
Although Bruce Willis has proven himself in the 
boxing ring during the Thrilla in Manila, fans 
weren’t too sure about his acting ability. But he 
laid all doubts to rest in this thought-provoking 
love story adapted from a short story by 
Dostoevsky. Willis plays a New York police officer 
transported to the magical world of Los Angeles, 
where he finds himself in the midst of a grave 
emotional struggle.
We follow Willis through an escalating series of 
internal turmoils as he learns that transcendence 
of death can only be found in the Marxist dialectic 
and not in the fantasy world of organized religion. 
And there are also some terrorists holding a large 
building hostage. And Willis has to kick their 
respective asses, in turn, one after the other.
There’s this thing in the movie that is really 
neat. You’ll just have to go see it.
At 7:30, 10pm, and 12:30am
In DH 2210
Sunday, January 26
Barefoot Gen
First there was Barefoot Adam. Then there was 
Barefoot Eve. And then came the torrent of 
Barefoots: John, Paul, David, Noah, Jonah, 
Ishmail, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, 
Confucius, Gandhi, Robert Redford, Moses 
Kiptanui, Sophie B. Hawkins, anyone who’s 
naked, Dick Morris, Elizabeth Berkeley, Demi 
Moore, Michael Douglas, Robin Williams, thirty 
years of beautiful Bond girls .... and now, Gen.
She’s sweet.
At 8, 10pm, and midnight 
In DH 2210
Writer speaks out about Larry Flynt
By GREG MARCKS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Woody Harrelson as Larry 
Flynt says to a prosecutor, “If 
you don’t like Hustler magazine, 
don’t read it.” Whether or not you 
read Hustler magazine, if you 
like the First Amendment, watch 
The People vs. Larry Flynt.
f
What: The People vs. 
Larry Flynt 
Director: Milos Forman 
Company: Columbia
This movie is not about naked 
women, although a number of 
them do appear in the film. It is 
about a smut publisher/born 
rebel who is continually in trouble 
with the law. As the title indi­
cates, The People vs. Larry Flynt 
is essentially a courtroom drama, 
beginning in a Cincinnati court­
house and ending in the Supreme 
Court.
This movie’s central message 
is that freedom of expression in 
the United States of America 
should be protected at all costs. 
Anyone who has ever believed in 
protecting this right will marvel 
at the extreme ways in which 
this man exercises it. Yet even
those who despise pornography 
and Larry Flynt himself will be 
able to enjoy this film, by identi­
fying with the principle of free 
expression and by empathizing 
with him in his love for his 
wife and his friendship with his 
lawyer.
Larry Flynt’s life is a fascinat­
ing one. To be told in two hours, 
much was left 
out, including 
a few details 
which seem 
rather impor­
tant. For 
instance,
Larry’s law­
yer gets shot, 
but the next 
time we see 
him on screen 
he is fine.
Also, Larry 
suddenly has 
a speech im­
pediment af­
ter he returns from his opera­
tion, but the cause is never di­
rectly explained.
Woody Harrelson is a convinc­
ing Larry Flynt and Courtney 
Love is more than convincing as 
his wife, Althea Leasure. Larry’s 
attorney Alan Isaacman is per­
formed well by Edward Norton, 
and Woody’s real brother Brett 
plays Larry’s brother Jimmy. 
Crispin Glover, looking much dif­
ferent than George McFly in Back 
to the Future, plays one of Larry’s 
assistants. Larry Flynt himself 
even makes a cameo appearance 
as (of all things) a closeminded 
judge. Other small roles are
©1996 Columbia Pictures 
Larry Flynt (Woody Harrelson) builds an empire in 
pornography with his wife (Courtney Love).
played by Norm MacDonald, 
anchorperson for Weekend Up­
date on Saturday Night Live, and 
James Cromwell, who played the 
farmer in Babe.
With a few notable exceptions, 
the direction is fairly standard. 
Director Milos Forman, best
known for One Flew Over the 
Cuckoo’s Nest and Amadeus, tells 
the story in. a straightforward, 
no-nonsense manner. Olive^ 
Stone, who directed Woody 
Harrelson in Natural Born Kill­
ers, helped produce the film. ‘
The funniest moments are uri- 
doubtedly the court scenes, ifi 
which Larry Flynt’s mockery c|f 
the judicial system serves par­
tially as comic relief. Larry’s T1- 
shirts alone are ample justifica­
tion for seeing the film. Although 
The People vs. Larry Flynt does 
has many comic elements, it is 
ultimately a drama since one is 
constantly bombarded by the free 
speech message of this film.
Perhaps the film’s greatest flaw 
is that it relies on audience per­
ceptions of the character and liffe 
of Larry Flynt as the only resfl 
opposition to its anti-censorship 
message. But since we are eif- 
couraged to identify with Larry, 
there is never any real question 
where the audience’s sympathy 
should He. As a result, the real 
emotional climax of the film does 
not take place with the verdict in 
the courtroom but with the 
changing character of Larry him­
self, and in this respect I think 
the film was a success.
Spinoff comic features familiar characters
Comic Book 
Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
Since I’m starting anew in
1997, I’ll be reviewing the new­
est Vertigo book, The Books of 
Faerie, a three issue spin-off 
from Books of Magic. Once again 
Vertigo puts out, another great 
book. In my opinion they have 
yet to strike out, and I’ve read 
at least one issue of just about 
every book from that imprint.
All the characters are famil­
iar in this new book. Page one 
starts off with a scene from 
Books of Magic #13 in which 
Tim Hunter (BoM’s protagonist) 
discovers his parents are not 
human but actually from the
land of Faerie. We see other 
familiar characters like Tita- 
nia, Auberon, the Amadan, and 
others from the pages of Books 
of Magic and Sandman. This 
new book fits in neatly with the 
rest of the Neil Gaiman inspired 
books from Vertigo.
Following the flashback to 
Books of Magic, we’re taken 
back to the 11th century where 
a deprived child is taken to the 
land of Faerie. I won’t tell you 
who the child grows up to be, 
but I will say this book is very 
important to the continuity of 
Books of Magic. Writer Browyn 
Carlton weaves a story that is 
deserving of the title “fairy tale”. 
The only other work of Carlton’s 
that I’m familiar with is the Big 
Book of Death, but I hope she’ll 
be doing more work for Vertigo. 
She was obviously influenced 
by the masters of the fairy tale 
genre, the Brothers Grimm and 
Hans Christian Anderson. It’s 
a shame that this book is la­
beled “Suggested for Mature
Readers” because it contains as- for granted because it’s so com- 
pects that would appeal to mon now but Gross really utir 
younger readers as well as lizes it by drawing an ivy coy>-
adults.
Books of 
Magic artist 
Peter Gross 
provides his 
usual exquis­
itely detailed 
art for the se­
ries. Gross 
has the per­
fect style for 
a book like 
this, much 
like Charles 
Vess and 
P. Craig 
Russell. Af­
ter my first 
read I flipped 
through the 
book again
ered wall for the background 
for the panels.^ 
While a new 
reader might be 
a little con­
fused, anyone 
who enjoys the 
monthly adven­
tures of Tim 
Hunter in Books 
of Magic should 
pick up thife 
book. Hopefully 
if sales are 
promising Ver­
tigo may be con­
vinced to make 
Books of Faerie 
an ongoing 
series. "
©1997 DC Comics 
The Books of Faerie is the newest 
comic from Vertigo.
just to note Gross’work. There Jason Andracki is a senidf" 
are so many subtleties that professional writing major. Hk 
make this a beautiful book to encourages anyone who missed 
behold. Take for example, page it the first time around to read 
20.1 take the full bleed artwork Essential Vertigo'.Sandman.
Falsettos tries to mix music with heavy topics
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Contributing Editor
Did you ever have Sea Mon­
keys? Sure, we all did. They 
were interesting creatures that 
grew large by eating other, 
smaller Sea Monkeys. Now, stay 
with me. I’m creating an alle­
gory.
Falsettos, a musical written 
by William Finn (Guggenheim 
Fellowship winner in 
playwriting) and James Lapine 
(director and librettist for Pas­
sion, Into the Woods, and Sun­
day in the Park with George), is 
now playing at the Pittsburgh 
Public Theater. There is an 
overall aura about this musical 
comedy/opera that tends to cast 
a holy and powerful light on the 
very idea of performing it. While 
I was impressed that the play­
ers were able to sing for so long,
I was nonplussed, overall.
Back to the Sea Monkeys: 
They sure are neat little crea­
tures. They’re just brine shrimp, 
but they have little eyes and 
thousands of cilia that propel 
them through their watery do­
mains. Some are bigger and 
more impressive than others. 
Some are tiny and will soon be 
weeded out by natural selec­
tion. But if you saw a jar of Sea 
Monkeys on the kitchen table, 
you’d pour it out, right? As a 
population, they aren’t very in­
teresting. They just look like a 
jar of dirty water.
Falsettos (actually made up 
of two musicals: March of the 
Falsettos and Falsettoland) is 
the story of Marvin (Dann Fink), 
his gay lover (Jay Montgom-
ery), his son (Michael LaVolpe), 
his ex-wife (Maureen Silliman), 
and his ex-therapist (Scott 
Robertson) whom he stopped 
seeing after the therapist mar­
ried his ex-wife.
Marvin doesn’t know what he 
wants, which is fine — A prob­
lem like that makes for good 
drama. The problem is, nobody 
knows what Marvin really
gets back together with his 
lover, who has a mysterious dis­
ease (this was written in 1981). 
Finally, Marvin’s lover dies. 
And what do we know about 
Marvin in the end?
That he leads a pretty topsy­
turvy life, kind of like Sea Mon­
keys who spend their days spin­
ning and swimming entertain­
ingly but never really getting
Courtesy Pittsburgh Public Theater 
Marvin (Dann Fink) and Whizzer (Jay Montgomery) even sing to one 
another while playing chess.
wants, not even the audience, 
and even they never find out.
Marvin gets a divorce. Marvin 
moves in with his lover. Marvin 
isn’t there for his son enough, 
and his ex-wife gets remarried. 
Marvin gets pretty upset and 
breaks up with his lover. 
Marvin’s son has a bar mitzvah. 
We are introduced to two lesbi­
ans (Barbara Pflaumer and Bar­
bara McCrane), one of whom 
can make a mean knish. Marvin
anywhere.
Taken individually, the forty 
or so songs that make up the 
musical are well wrought (each 
have their own little eyes and 
thousands of cilia). But put the 
population together and you just 
have a murky, muddled mess.
Falsettos wants to tell about 
the following problems (in or­
der of seriousness): Jewish neu­
roses, therapists, mother/fa- 
ther/son relations, homosexual
relationships, AIDS, and loveT. 
What is not clear is that Lapin'6 
and Finn wanted to say about 
these things. Think about it’: 
Sure, Sea Monkeys are neat, 
but what are you supposed to do 
with them?
Fink, as Marvin, tries his best 
to portray the character as a 
confused middle-aged man torn 
between a family and a lover. 4 
veteran of the stage (Le$ 
Miserables) and silver screeii 
(Mighty Aphroditel
Cyber surfers), Fink looked and 
acted the part. However, the 
emotional intensity needed to 
explain why and how Marvin is 
in the predicament his is in is 
lacking. His level of intensity} 
however, is high and flat.
Marvin’s son, Jason, playec) 
by 12-year-old Michael LaVolpe} 
is an impressive find. He ha4 
good poise and was able to kee$ 
his place in a cast of six adults! 
His mother, played by Maureeii 
Silliman, was entertaining, as 
was her therapist-husband, a 
wry and witty Scott Robertson!
But it couldn’t be saved. The 
trials of Marvin, while full oi* 
good pacing and wily lyrics' 
were just too murky to follow} 
Individually, each actor, song) 
and scene was a beautiful, jf 
tiny, creature. Put together', 
there’s really nothing.
11Falsettos will be performing 
until February 16 at the Pitts{ 
burgh Public Theater. Ticket 
prices range from $15 to $34.50\ 
Discounted student tickets are 
available for most perform 
mances. For tickets call 32 
9800.

---------------------------------------------------

You can advertise for 
free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off 
•campus that has relevance to the 
campus community, email auyoung@ 
andrew.cmu.edu or mall it to The Tar­
tan, Box 17 In the Carnegie Mellon 
University Center by the Wednesday 
before the event.
Vox Populi is a fomrn open to the 
entire campus community! To submit 
a vox, simply email it to 
' auyoung@andrew. cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, Box 17 via campus mail 
or drop it in the Vox Populi drop box on 
> the Tartan Server.
,. Remember, the Vox rocks chicken 
pox, jocks, pink socks, and Goldilocks.
Myths will be the topic of cultural historian 
Marina Warner’s lecture on myths, the 
machinery of myth-making, and images of 
women on January 30 at 4 pm in the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium at Pitt.museums
Memory and Mourning: American Ex­
pressions of Grief, a new exhibit at the 
Heinz Regional History Center will feature 
America’s changing attitudes toward death 
and dying. For more information, please 
contact 454-6372.
Flying Against the Ceiling is the newest 
exhibit at Hewlett Gallery which will run 
through February 1. The exhibit features CMU trips in a 55-53 loss to Johns Hopkins University on January 17.
University of Pittsburgh 
NESE Barkan
Forbes Ave. and McKee Place 
Thursday, January 23 
9 am-2:30 pm
Kethcum Center Building
1030 Fifth Avenue 
Friday, January 24 
9 am-2 pm
University of Pittsburgh
Bouquet Street 
Tuesday, January 28 
7:45 am-1:30 pm
PNC Bank-Main
One PNC Plaza 
'.Fifth Avenue and Wood Street 
Tuesday, Januaiy 28 
7 am - 2 pm
University of Pittsburgh 
Biomedical Science Tower
Tuesday, January 28 
7:45 am -1:30 pm 
Lothrop Street 
Conference Room
CMU - Greeks IFC
University Center 
Wednesday, January 29 
lpm -6:45 pm
For more information, 
contact Marcy Braunstein 
at 456-1972.
f/rómh'CAíMDAR
thank you for making 
me go. it was amazing.
Question:
Why did the chicken 
cross the road?
Answer:
So Scott could eat it.
Jared Roxby- 
You have a friend in 
Pennsylvania. See you 
soon.
—Becky
I-8OO-FOR-LOVE
Cheesehead,
Your Packers are going 
to get whooped on 
Sunday. Just you wait.
M.
May the tree grow strong 
near the brook.
Michelle,
Thanks for the photos. 
They were great!
—Rich
Diablo sucks!
around town
Schenley Ice Skating Rink is now open. 
College ID Nights, admission $2 with ID, 
will be held on Tuesday nights from 9:30 to 
11:30 pm, Sunday nights from 7 to 9 pm, 
and Wednesday afternoons from 1:30 to 
3:30 pm. Regular admission is $3. For more 
info, contact Tom Driscoll at 422-6523.
Rock for Wishes is an All-Ages show on 
Tuesday at Metropol that will benefit the 
Make-A-Wish foundation. The show will 
feature local musicians like Vibrokings and 
Lovechild along with comedians and Shawn 
McDowell of WDVE. Tickets are $9 at Na­
tional Record Marts and $11 at the door. 
Doors will open at 6 pm with the show 
starting at 7 pm. For more information, 
contact Cindy Huttinger at 885-6075.
Free Food Service Class will be offered 
by Connelley Technical Institute and Adult 
Education Center. Applicants need a high 
school diploma or GED and complete a 
physical exam. For more information, please 
call 338-3700.
Volunteer Tutors are being sought to as­
sist adult students in reading or math at 
Connelley Technical Institute and Adult 
Education Center. Training and materials 
are free. For more information, contact 
Regina Brooks at 338-3711.
Winter Senior Games will be held from 
this Friday through January 31 through­
out the greater Pittsburgh area. Competi­
tion is open to residents of Allegheny County 
ages 60 and above. A registration fee of $2 
is required. Also, a Winter Games Festival 
Day will be held on January 30 at Schenley 
Park Ice Rink. For more information, please 
contact Lydia Valanti at 422-6404.
Pittsburgh Black Legends in Journal­
ism will be featured in an exhibit in the 
Magovern B Gallery at the Heinz Pitts­
burgh Regional History Center running 
from February 2 through March 7. For 
more information, please call 454-6000.
photographic imagery by Cara Jaye which 
will explore the nude female figure in lay­
ers of “stained” photographic imagery. For 
more information, please contact Petra 
Fallaux, Gallery coordinator, at x8-3877.on campus
BMI Student Composer Awards Com­
petition will award $16,000 to young com­
posers. There are no limitations to instru­
ment, style, or length of work submitted, 
and the prizes range from $500 to $3,000. 
Applications are available from Ralph N. 
Jackson, Director, BMI Student Composer 
Awards, 320 West 57th Street, New York, 
NY 10019. The postmark deadline is Feb­
ruary 7,1997. For more information, con­
tact Jackson at (212) 830-9703.
Delta Gamma will be hosting an informal 
spring rush next week. Delta Gamma 
provides leadership and community service 
opportunities for its members, as well as 
lots of close friendships and fun. For more 
details, call Emily at 862-2633.
Dynamic individuals interested in 
becoming Resident Assistants are invited 
to attend an informational session on 
Wednesday in the West Wing TV Room 
from 6 - 7 pm.
Slice of Life will take place on Saturday, 
February 15, from 9 am-5 pm in the 
University Center. It is a conference on life 
skills presented by alumni who will share 
their experiences regarding such topics as
Emily Rentier Guitar Series will feature 
Fareed Haque with a string quartet in a 
jazz concert on February 1. Kenny Burrell 
will be performing on April 5, and Mike 
Stem on May 3. Tickets can be purchased 
for all three concerts as a package for $45. 
Individual tickets are also available. For 
tickets, please call 322-0800.
Pincha8 Zukerman, world-renown vir­
tuoso, will perform in an all-Beethoven 
program with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra at Heinz Hall on Thursday at 
10:45 am, Friday and Saturday at 8 pm. 
For more information, contact Carol Bradac 
at 392-3306.
Alban Gerhardt, a young and acclaimed 
German cellist, will give a Y Music Society 
recital in Carnegie Music Hall on February 
2 at 8 pm. For more information, please 
contact Mayda Roth at 521-8010, ext. 500.
Pittsburgh Summer ChoralFest will 
make its debut this year from June 14-27. 
Eight days of rehearsal will be followed 
with a public concert. For all choral musi­
cians interested in participating, the fee is 
$75. For more information, please contact 
Eric Haines at 734-3422.
long-term personal finances, office 
etiquette, the workplace, moving to a new 
city, buying your first car, and more! All 
students are welcome to attend this free 
event. Breakfast and lunch will be provided. 
The event is sponsored by the Student 
Alumni Relations Council (SARC) and the 
Career Center. If interested, register at the 
Information Desk, Career Center, or at 
http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~sarc.
Women’s Center Benefit will take place 
on Friday at the Women’s Center in 
Margaret Morrison Plaza and starts at 
7:30 pm. The event consists of an art opening 
by area artists as well as CMU undergrads, 
and the performances of four bands — 
Molly and the Regicides, Speakeasy, Tiny 
Little Help and the Fuzzy Comets. 
Refreshments are also available and 
admission is $3.
Activities Fair will be held on January 30 
in Rangos Hall in the University Center 
from 4:30 pm-6 pm.
30 at 7:30 pm; January 31 and February! 
at 8 pm; and February 2 at 7:30 pm. For 
ticket information, call 392-4900. For more 
information, please contact Carol Bradac 
at 392-3306.
City Theatre is presenting Jack and Jill 
through February 9. Performances are held 
on Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 pm 
Saturdays at 5:30 and 9 pm, and Sundays 
at 2 pm at the City Theatre. Tickets ra 
from $18-$26. For more information, please 
contact Sara Durkacs at 431-4400.
Man of all Work opens on January 29 at 
8 pm at the Lester Hamburg Theatre. Per­
formances take place on Wednesdays 
through Saturdays at 8 pm and Sundays at 
2 pm. Tickets range from $10-$12. For 
more information, please contact Sara 
Durkacs at 431-4400.
reading
Singularly Sensational Broadway will 
take place on January 30 through Febru­
ary 2, and will be a weekend of local favor­
ites and Broadway starts in a presentation 
of popular Broadway music. The CMU 
Drama Department, under the direction of 
Peter Frisch, will present Stephen 
Sondheim’s Something About a War along 
with a scene from The Goodbye Girl by Neü 
Simon. The concert times will be January
Common Grounds Coffee House: Spring 
1997 poetry reading series will feature Bar­
bara Grabowski and Jude Vachon on Tues­
day, January 28. Open poetry will take 
place at 8 pm and scheduled readings at 
8:30 pm. For more information, please call 
362-1190.
Beehive Reading Series. Janaury 23: 
Mary Ellen Kubit, Richard Ing. All read­
ings held upstairs at the Beehive Coffee­
house, 3807 Forbes Avenue. It will be open 
mike at 8 pm; scheduled readers at 8:30 
pm. For more information, call 441-2859.
Green Eggs 
and Ham!
VOCIMI
the voice'oft^ë:geSple\>
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Contributing
Frank Lloyd Wright will be the subject of 
a lecture given by Professor Neil Levine 
which will take place on Thursday at 4 pm 
in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium at Pitt. 
Levine is Emmet Blakeney Gleason 
Professor of Fine Arts at Harvard 
University.
