¡¦tartan
January 29, 1974 Volume 74 Number 14
0 Protest Food Policies
Photo by Ed Levine
Students Boycott Skibo
by Kevin Turcotte and Debbie Siegel
Last Thursday evening, a student boy- 
p cott protesting food contract policies left 
Skibo Cafeteria empty with only 17% of 
normal customers eating there. Students 
were responding to flyers which pro- 
claimed-“Tired of not enough FOOD? 
BOYCOTT SKIBO! Eat at Morewood to­
night.”
“Food Service? We’re overcharged,, 
underfed and malnourished,” commented a0 food contract student.
At 5:30, there were 27 people eating in 
Skibo. By the end of the night, about 85 
people had passed through the line of 
student boycotters. “On a normal night at 
Morewood we get about 500 contract cards 
and about 20 cash. Tonight we had 664 
contract cards and a total of 692 customers 
in all,” commented Mary Jane Scullion, the0 card puncher at Morewood.
Ms. Rita Cohen, Director of Food Ser­
vices, aided by Security, brought food 
from Skibo to replenish the stock jt 
Morewood. “Morewood wouldn’t have run 
out of food; they just would have had to 
substitute. The only problem 1 envisioned 
was in seating the students,” reported Ms. 
Cohen to the Tartan. Although Morewood0 was crowded, nobody had to eat standing 
up.
Jim Malanos and Kevin Clark, leaders 
of the boycott, explained to the Tartan, 
“We were dissatisfied with Food Service. 
We talked to Rita three or four times this 
year. Nothing happened.” Their frustration 
increased when a restatement of food ser­
vice’s policy was issued. It listed specific0 restrictions on exactly what a student 
could take at a meal. They decided that 
something had to be done. “Everybody 
had petitioned the library and that hadn't 
done any good. We figure maybe a boycott 
and a survey of student preferences would 
be better.”
About the restatement of Food Service 
policy, Ms. Cohen said, “We got a lew 
^ complaints when we opened up this year. 
What we handed out yesterday at lunch 
was to remind students of the rules. "
The boycott, which was considered 80/7 
effective tyy Jim and Kevin, was only the 
first part of a two-fold plan. The other part
is a survey of Hill dorm students to see 
where student preference lies: do students 
want three entrees, maintaining the present 
policy, or two ¿ntrees with seconds, similar 
to Morewood?
Reactions to the boycott were taken a! 
both Morewood and Skibo. One student 
who was dissatisfied with Skibo had this to 
say-
“I feel that some of the card-punchers 
at Skibo are under pressure to enforce 
trivial food limitations. This leads to a 
great degree of intimidation, especially 
when food is grabbed from one’s plate. I 
now eat at Morewood to avoid such petty
hassles.”
A student who ate at Skibo voiced his 
feelings: “I'm too lazy to walk to More­
wood. I don’t have the time. Some of us 
have work to do.”
“1 think the portions should be a little 
larger. In the beginning of second semester 
last year the food was better, the portions 
bigger. If there’s a trade-off between quant­
ity and quality, we’ll take quality,” said 
another person who ate in Skibo.
“The quality isn’t any better here in 
Skibo. There are a few more choices and
the seating is more comfortable and spa- 
continued on page 8
CMU Accepts Pat Shelters
by Mike Krivda
The University will accept two Forbes 
Avenue bus shelters to be built by the Port 
Authority Transit.
Acceptance of the shelters had been 
held up by a campus group who had re­
quested permission to design more “aes­
thetically pleasing” shelter. The request 
was channeled through the Campus Design 
Committee, which met on January 22, and 
recommended that the University accept 
the PAT shelters.
Dr. Ronald Rutledge, Chief Officer of 
Operations, made it clear that he intended 
to follow the recommendations of the 
Committee and take the PAT shelters. He 
said, however, that the shelters could not 
be built right away because PenDot is 
planning to build bus pull off lanes on both 
sides of Forbes, one on either side of the 
Morewood intersection. The pull ott lanes 
will be similar to the one in front of the 
new art museum in Oakland. The lane for 
buses headed into Oakland and the city is 
to be constructed across from Warner Hall 
directly beyond the intersection. The pull 
off lane for buses going the other way is to 
be constructed on the lower end of the cut 
across from the Fiat houses.
The PAT shelters arc to be built on the 
pull ott lanes, and construction ot the lanes 
is to be complete by August ot this year.
The bus shelters should be up by the be­
ginning of next semester. There has been a 
great demand for these bus shelters, mostly 
from commuting students who use Port 
Authority buses, but also from dorm res­
idents who depend upon PAT buses for 
transportation.
Dr. Rutledge stated that the students 
who originally proposed the design of a 
different shelter had also suggested a cam­
pus design contest.
The problem, though, was money, PAT 
would not give the money they would 
spend on the shelters t<^ ( MU tor the de­
sign and construction of its own shelters. 
So the Design Committee, and Dr. Rut­
ledge, felt that it would be better to accept 
the PAT shelters. The money saved will be 
used in landscaping the areas around the 
shelters.
PAT official Dave Bond said the Univer­
sity was allowed to delay their decision 
because of a delay in delivery of the shelt­
ers to PAT. It seems that the aluminum 
and Lexan structures were ordered during a 
run on the Lexan plastic and the company 
that builds them for PAT was not able to 
obtain the raw materials. However, Mr. 
Bond said that delivery of the shelters was 
expected in early February and as tar as he 
knew construction of shelters in other 
parti» ol the city would begin about then.
continued on page 5
Library 
Hours 
Extended
by Tom Kendig and Rob Simbeck
Campus libraries will remain open until 
1:00 a.m. beginning on Sunday, February 
3.
The change in policy was the result of a 
poll which revealed that 94.4% of the
1,000 students polled were in favor of ex­
tended hours. The 1,000 students represent 
about one-third of the undergraduate 
student body.
The announcement came in a letter 
from Edward Schatz, Vice President for 
Academic Affairs, and central adminis­
trative officer for the library, to the Tar­
tan.
The poll was taken by the Academic 
Affairs Committee of Student Senate, and 
the analysis was prepared by Arthur Fisher, 
Chairman of the Committee.
The results of the poll were presented to 
Kenneth Fagerhaugh, Director of Univer­
sity Libraries, on Thursday, January 24. “I 
have a little more respect for this survey 
than some,” commented Fagerhaugh.
Faberhaugh met with Schatz on Friday 
afternoon, and Schatz sent the letter 
announcing the change soon afterward. 
The letter states in part, “ ... we are im­
pressed with the survey ... On the basis of 
this study we have decided to extend 
Library hours to 1 a.m. during the week (2 
a.m. during the reading period and finals) 
beginning on Sunday, February 3, until 
further notice.” It continues, “We would 
like the Academic Affairs Committee of 
the Student Senate to work with the Li­
brary in setting out criteria to evaluate the 
usage of these increased hours and then 
assist the Library in gathering information 
to determine whether or not these in­
creased hours should be continued.”
Fagerhaugh cited some budgetary con­
cerns that will arise because of the cost of 
extended hours. Money channeled into ex­
tended hours is not available for improve­
ment of other library facilities. The Library 
has not subscribed to a new journal or 
magazine in three years, and Fagerhaugh is
continued on page 5
Photo by

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974
editor’s note
C/1/1U took action!
WARNER HALL:
Nobody expected that, after ignoring recurrent student complaints 
for three semesters, the administration would act quickly on a new appeal 
for longer library hours. Not until Friday that is.
Dr. Schatz (Provost 'and VTce President for Academic Affairs), 
Kenneth Fagerhaugh, and Arthur Fisher achieved a first for responding 
with a solution to the undergraduates’ concern over library dosing hours.
Library hours will be extended to 1:00 a.m. during the week, 
beginning Sunday, February 3, and until 2:00 a.m. during finals. One 
small step for...
It is nothing short of incredible. A week ago the budget didn t allow 
for it, Mr. Fagerhaugh seemed relatively steadfast, and a student petition
was politely shelved.
Now the budget is being juggled. Something, afterall, is movable. We 
wanted it, we filled out surveys, petitioned, editorialized. The adminis­
tration heard and acted; now they’re watching to see if we’ll use it.
STUDENTS:
Shock is catchy! It is the time for the stunning realization that brick 
walls are shattering. On Thursday, students—C-MU students—boycotted 
the Kiltie Cafe, and took activism out of hibernation.
The cause-food, not enough of it. I’d like to think the motive is 
almost inconsequential. Certain administrators feel the boycott is an 
indication of students’ frustration with bureaucratic procedures of shuff­
ling complaints. Perceptive.
Yet, there is no higher ideal and apparently no better way to get a 
quick response.
Well, maybe the ideals will come next!
Christine Infante 
Editor-in-Chief
| Îtliînk gU^ h cofjWMccA .* Awrf .1
COuW. Wiysdf
letters:
Letters to the editor must he signed by the 
author’s full name, though names will be 
withheld upon request.
Editor:
Concerning the shameful library hours: 
What would Andrew Carnegie (Cran­
berry?) say: “My heart is in the work, but 
my money is in the bank?”
If this university is determined to 
nickel-and-dime the students to death, 
why not do it openly (like in the grill?) My 
suggestion: After 11 pm., put coin op­
erated turnstiles in the library doorways, 
so that we can offer our nickels and dimes 
(and quarters) as sacrifices to the god of 
academic profit.
John Grefenstette
Editor:
Responsible journalism does not propa­
gate racism, nor does it provide a forum for 
irresponsible writings. There is a difference 
between free speech and constructive 
debate, and defamatory rantings. Free 
journalism does not mean that anything 
should be put into print. Yet, the 
TARTAN chose to print a blatant racist 
attack by Mr. John Paul in its Letter to the 
Editor’s column of January 22. Words of 
rebuttal are necessary in reference to his 
letter because of his obvious ignorance of 
the relationship of minorities to America.
The American Dream was to create a 
melting pot of various nationalities, creeds, 
races and peoples. Instead a collage was 
formed. To be an American means 
different things depending on where one 
fits into the collage.
One segment, dating from the lookout 
on Columbus’ ship (and possibly Columbus 
himself) is the Jewish community. A 
diverse community, differing in economic, 
political and social positions, the Jews have
been involved in all segments of American 
life. The American revolution and nation 
was helped made possible by Jewish 
finance and blood, as were all American 
wars up through the Vietnamese conflict.
By applying the Ku Klux Klan’s 
argument that Catholics can’t be loyal 
citizens because of their alliegence to the 
Pope, Mr. Paul tries to argue that Jews 
can’t be loyal citizens because of the State 
of Israel. This is nothing but a rehash of 
anti-semetic untruths. Vast derrogatory 
generalities about any people echo racism, 
and his suggestion that “The Jewish 
people . . . should be deported to the 
Israeli nation . ... ” rings of the white 
racist line of shipping blacks back to 
Africa. He downgrades Jewish work for 
Israel for “No other race or nationality has 
ever worked so hard for a foreign nation,” 
yet proudly many Americans gave to Biafra 
in its struggle for freedom; many Irish give 
support to the IRA to gain freedom in 
Ireland; Arab students support Palestinian 
liberation. American minorities are proud 
of their ancestry, and only an anti-semite 
would deny this right to the Jews.
Mr. Paul’s fear of America becoming an 
Israeli colony does seem strange because at 
this time Israeli newspapers are demanding 
that Israel not bow to U.S. pressure and 
become an American colony. It seems 
hard to believe that a small nation, 
without any tremendous economic or 
military power, could actually turn one of 
the world’s giants into a colony. In fact, 
there is a greater threat of colonization 
from oil producing nations because too 
many people, like Mr. Paul, continue to 
associate the energy crisis with U.S. Middle 
Eastern policies. Any expert will admit 
that our country is in no way in the 
immediate future dependent on foreign oil; 
the energy crisis would have occured 
regardless of any crisis in the Middle East.
Mr. Paul’s ideas are neither original nor 
new. America need not fear “traitors and 
hypocrites” such as the Jews, but racists 
such as Mr. Paul who will lead to the down­
fall of the true American ideal.
Larry Kletter
tartan
Christine Infante, Editor-in-Chief 
Gary Singer, Managing Editor 
Lester Nathan, Business Manager
News Editor: Robert Simbeck 
Features Editor: Shelley Burhans 
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegel 
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, 
Elliot Arons 
Entertaihment Editor: Susan Klein 
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Reporters: Sandy Como, John Craun, Thomas Kendig, Stephen Saunders, Tom Schwartz, Kevin 
Turcotte, Chip Yeager, Steve Correll , Jan Lindberg, Philip Franklin, Mike Krivda
Entertainment: Stacey Robin Kimbell, Arnie Karr
Sports: Roger Geddes, Glenn Campbell, Leslie Allen, Mary Kay Burak, Mary Jo Chabala,
Jim Litsas, Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman 
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Photographers: Bruce Edel&ton, Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Fredrick Shamlion, John Shettel, Courtney Larsen, Bryan Smith, Frank Stein, 
Rick Werme
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy Kinneavy 
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published «very Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government ot Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday precedinq the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974-Page 3
news comment
grades or education?
"Students dropping subjects or those withdrawing from college after 
the official date shall automatically receive “R” grades unless the College 
Council of the college votes to relieve the student of responsibility for the 
course involved. ”
All the colleges within this university currently place a date after 
which no courses may be dropped.
It is the student who suffers when a course is dropped. It is the 
student’s time and energy that becomes uncredited. Yet it is not the 
student’s option to drop his courses after the date, which arrives pretty 
early in the semester for some colleges, predetermined by that college.
Why are students not given the option to drop courses any time 
before entering the final? If they are doing badly in a course and know it, 
what do they stand to gain, educationally, if they receive an “R” as 
opposed to some designation such as “AU” representing a course that was 
audited for no credit. This “audit” designation would show that students 
who decided to retake the course had previous experience with it, yet 
would not serve to lower the student’s Quality Point A verage.
If the student’s time and effort is what is in question, why is it not 
the student who ultimately decides how much it was worth? Graduation 
from high school is supposed to reward the graduate with responsibilities 
and decisions. __________
Thursday, January 24, 1974 will be recorded in the history of 
Carnegie-Mellon University as the day that the don’ts did. Even though 
they were inspired by their stomachs rather than their ideals, the students 
of C-MU banded together and demonstrated for what they considered to 
be important. The students boycotted Skibo and suffered the small 
inconveniences of eating in the overcrowded Morewood Gardens Cafeteria 
in order to prove their point; the food in Skibo is not sufficiently superior 
to the food in Morewood to merit the no seconds policy in Skibo 
Cafeteria. It will be hard for food service to ignore a near empty Skibo.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
please ma'am, some MOPE!
What ever happened to the rats on 
campus. .. anyway? Student antagonism 
towards Food Service seems to be 
mounting as the policy at Skibo 
continually changes. Students sign a food 
“contract” which allows Food Service to 
adopt any policy on food restrictions. 
Once again, this is demonstrated by food 
limitations at Skibo. With the present Food 
Service monopolizing the student dollar, 
and no cooking allowed in the dorms, 
students are practically forced to sign con­
tracts in order to eat.
At the beginning of the 1973 Fall 
Semester, Food Service promised that 
although there would be no seconds at 
Skibo, the quality and quantity of the food 
would be increased. In light of the present 
food restrictions, where has that promise 
gone?
Food Service understands that the 
student body would rather have the 
restricted amounts, the “better” quality, 
and a larger menu (third entree) at Skibo 
rather than the seconds policy now being 
used at Morewood.
We feel that the majority of contract 
holders, who eat at Skibo, disagree. Many 
of these contract holders would like to eat 
at Morewood (with seconds), but are 
unable to, due to lack of time and the 
limited serving and seating accomodations 
at Morewood.
The supposedly improved quality at 
Skibo is questionable when compared to 
Morewood. Yet, Ms. Cohen states that the 
quality of food at Skibo (not trusting any­
thing breaded or in a sauce), surpasses 
Morewood by the comparison that two 
meals at Morewood cost less to prepare 
than one meal at Skibo.
We feel that the student majority who 
eat at Skibo would rather adopt a seconds 
policy than the third entree argument (as 
shown by reviewing the extra third entree 
selection at Skibo for the week of January 
21-27).
Mon. (Lunch) Deviled crab/cole slaw; 
(Dinner) Turkey Devonshire;
Tue. Spanish omelet ; Knockwurst 
Wed. Lamb Stew; Porcupine Meat Balls 
Thur. Turkey mushroom pie; Beef 
Kabobs
Fri. Glazed Ham Balls; Chicken turnover 
Sat. Gourmet casserole; Sauerbratin 
Sun. Scalloped apples/sausage; Seafood 
Newburg
A survey is now being conducted in the 
Hill Dorm Area discussing the present 
Food Service third entree at Skibo Vs. 
Seconds at Morewood. Exact results will be 
published in next week’s TARTAN.
Kevin Clark 
Jeff Byers
Student 't*
>~Ook- Like,
~Lrÿ "fi- 
-tb /-ilcc- sIuJc'iX,
r-f&duv'’
letters:
Editor:
It is practically a game among Jews, 
whether they be in the United States in 
1974, Germany in 1933, or Russia in 1905, 
to note the ways in which logic and truth 
are ignored and distorted, and innuendo 
employed in order to portray them as 
traitors. I would like to thank John Paul 
for giving me this opportunity in the last 
TARTAN. I’d almost started thinking that 
I’d be deprived of the pastime which 
provided my ancestors with so many hours 
of consternation and heartbreak.
Mr. Paul has some complicated, though 
unstated, definitions of “treason,” and 
“American heritage, citizenship and ex­
pected duties and rights.” What is the 
“American heritage?” To most Jews, es­
pecially those, like my grandparents who 
came here after being persecuted 
throughout Europe, America was, and still 
is, the one country where Jews could live 
without incessant anti-Semetism. The 
nation of Israel has potential as a self- 
contained Jewish state where Jews can live 
without having forty percent of their 
people eliminated every twenty-five years, 
but there are obviously some territorial 
problems to be worked out before that-can 
come to pass. Israel was created to fill a 
need and end an era which almost wiped us 
out entirely. The death of that state would 
bring about the re-birth of that need. We’re 
understandably concerned.
Because Israel (and the world Jewish 
population) is so small, and virtually ally- 
less, American Jews have asked the United 
States to provide Israel with the arms they 
need to defend themselves. (We find it hard 
to believe that Israel is an aggressive nation 
when a war that they are charged with 
starting begins on Yom Kippur.) We do so 
as U.S. citizens, realizing fully that public 
opinion must be followed (or not followed, 
as in the case of Viet Nam). If the majority 
of Americans disapprove of the way that 
their representatives are handling the 
Middle East, these politicans should be 
voted out of office. I would not vote for a 
congressman who misrepresented the will 
of the public, whatever his or her views.
I’m also interested in seeing the 
documentation of Mr. Paul’s survey of 
Jewish attitudes on Viet Nam. I never 
realized that there was anything close to 
unanimity. I, for one, have never heard of a 
Jewish organization, religious or social, 
supporting withdrawal of U.S. troops from 
Viet Nam, nor have any of my Jewish 
friends even suggested that U.S. troops be 
sent to fight in the Middle East.
In his letter, Mr. Paul states that 
“ ... No other nationality or race has ever 
worked so hard for a foreign nation.” This 
is not necessarily true, as “Americans” 
worked awfully hard to bail out the French 
and British in World Wars I and II, while 
various other prefixed Americans insisted 
on aid to their former homes. Many Jews 
were involved in helping the Biafrans in 
their unsuccessful fight for survival. Was 
this treason?
United States aid to Israel has been con­
siderable, it would seem, not because 
Jews have wanted it, but because many 
other Americans did, too. Perhaps recent 
efforts by the Nixon Administration can 
secure peace in the Middle East and arms 
shipments can cease. Or maybe tne iuei 
shortage will turn the tide against Israel in 
this country and our aid will go elsewhere, 
as was the case with Japan.
Jews, with economic acceptance, often 
are deceived into believing that anti- 
Semetism is dead, rather than laying 
dormant. John Paul has, I’m sure awakened 
many Jews. For this, he deserves insincere 
thanks and a warning: If we leave, we’re 
taking all of our contributions to this 
country and to humanity with us. Being 
Jewish, I will be merciful and, if John Paul 
likes, let him reconsider.
Arnie Karr
The TARTAN received ten letters 
disputing the views expressed by John 
Paul in a letter published last week. The 
preceding letters were selected as 
representative of the views expressed.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974
announcements
A Phi O needs your help. Join us as
volunteers for the Heart Fund Drive on 
February 3. Meet us Sunday in Skibo, 
Room 16, at 2 o'clock.
A real Walden Two community,
Wednesday, January 30, in Porter Hall 100 
at 11:30 am. A lecture-discussion will be 
held on the Twin Oaks Commune of 
Louisa, Va. The lecturer is "Eve.'' She will 
describe life styles in this real Skinnerian 
setting and answer questions from the 
audience.
African-American History Week, February
10-16, will be observed at the Wylie Ave­
nue Branch of Carnegie Library of Pitts­
burgh through its sponsorship of an annual 
Arts and Crafts Exhibit. Creative works of 
students attending Fifth Avenue High 
School, Herron Hill Junior High, and 
Letsche, McKelvy, Miller and Weil elemen­
tary schools will be featured.
The exhibit will be open to the public 
Monday through Thursday from 11:00 
am. to 7:00 pm. and on Saturday from 
9:00 am. to 5:00 pm. A free movie on the 
life of Frederick Douglass will be shown 
on Tuesday, February 12, at 1:00 pm. and 
again at 4:00 pm. The Wylie Avenue 
Branch is located at the corner of Wylie 
Avenue and Green Street.
The Tenth Muse will be presenting another
coffeehouse along with a congenial atmos­
phere and free food and drinks on Friday, 
February 1 at 9 pm. in the Kiltie Cafe. 
Feel free to wander in anytime between 9 
pm. and 12 midnight and hear some good 
music.
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
offers instruction in traditional English 
dances. The group meets at the University 
of Pittsburgh Student Union, Fifth Ave­
nue at Bigelow Boulevard, Sunday 
evenings from 7 pm. to 9 pm. Meetings are 
scheduled for February 3, 10, 17 and 24 
and March 3, 10, 17, 24 and 31.
Newcomers are welcome.
Two awards will be made in the amount of
$250 each. Any woman student in the 
junior class who is majoring in government, 
political science, economics or history or is 
preparing toteach one of these subjects is 
eligible to apply. Students must have good 
scholastic standing; be reasonably active in 
student activities; be a resident of 
Pennsylvania; establish financial need; and 
possess a Democratic family background or 
be an active participant in the affairs of the 
Democratic Party. Applications which 
must be postmarked on or before May 1, 
1974, may be obtained by writing to: 
Memorial Scholarship Fund, Grace M. 
Sloan, Chairman, P.O. Box 3804, Harris­
burg, Pennsylvania 17105.
Silva Mind Control enables you to gain
control over and function with Awareness 
in the subconscious levels of mind for en­
hancement of intuition, creativity, motiva­
tion, mental attitude, memory, concentra­
tion, health, athletic activity. Mind 
Control is not hypnosis, transcendental 
meditation or the power of positive think­
ing. Attend introductory lecture: Wednes­
day, February 6, 7:30 pm. CMU, Skibo 
Hall Room 45. Admission $1. Call 
793-5517 for more information.
The Country Dance Society of Pittsburgh
and the English Room Committee of the 
University of Pittsburgh will sponsor their 
annual Valentine's Dance Party and 
Benefit on Saturday, February 9, 1974. 
The event will be held in the lower hall of 
the Stephen Foster Memorial on Forbes 
Avenue at the University of Pittsburgh 
from 8:00 pm. to 11:00 pm. Instruction 
and prompting for traditional English 
dances will be by several Pittsburgh area 
dance leaders. Refreshments will be 
served. A donation will benefit the 
Scholarship Fund of the English Room 
Committee.
One of the nation^ top journalists, Hugh
Siday, Chief of Time Life News Service 
and a regular columnist for Time Magazine 
will be here on Tuesday, January 29, 1974 
at 8 pm. to speak at Rodef Shalom 
Temple, Fifth and Morewood Aves. in 
Shadyside under the sponsorship of 
National Council of Jewish Women, provi­
ding an in-depth analysis of the current 
problems on the subject: The National 
Scene. The entire community is invited to 
attend.
The Women's Committee of the Museum
of Art, Carnegie Institute, announces a 
Sealed Bid Auction to be held in the 
Museum's third-floor galleries on January 
29 through February 3. All objects to be 
auctioned have been donated to the 
Women's Committee. They include fine 
antiques and reproductions, china, glass­
ware, paintings, furniture, silver, pewter, 
textiles, ivories and other items of quality. 
Proceeds from the sale will go towards the 
educational and purchase programs of the 
Museum of Art. The galleries will be open 
for auction on Tuesday, January 29, from 
11:00 am. until 8:00 pm. and on other 
days from 11:00 am. to 4:00 pm. 
(Sunaays until 5:00 pm.).
All fire alarm systems will be tested at the
end of each month in accordance with the 
following schedule. (This supersedes the 
previous schedule published November 9 
1973.) All housing fire alarm systems will 
be tested beginning at 7:30 am., on the 
last Friday of each month. All other 
campus building systems will be tested be­
ginning at 7:30 am. on the Thursday 
before the last Friday of each month. This 
is not intended as a fire drill, and therefore 
should be disregarded. Should an actual 
fire occur on one of these days, observers 
should report directly to Security (ext. 
666), emphasizing, "This is not a test." 
These tests normally will be completed by 
noon, but may extend into the afternoon 
when delays are caused by malfunctioning 
equipment or by unscheduled emergencies 
requiring the services of the electricians 
conducting the tests.
Track Meeting: Monday, February 4, 4:30
pm. Donner Hall. All interested, please 
attend.
Classified Ad*
Is your apartment a mess? Judy and Ann
will, for a nominal fee', cut the dust. Call 
441-9931.
Shadyside: working mother desires woman
to share house. $100 plus half utilities. 
Call 6-11 pm. 361-4937.
Psychology Department needs subjects for
experiments. You will be paid $1.50 per 
hour. If you are interested, please report 
to 340A Baker Hall, third floor, Saturday, 
February 2 at noon.
Female Roommate needed to share room
in townhouse apartment in Oakland, 5 
minutes from C-MU and Pitt. Call 
687-0023.
Wedding Photography with a difference.
Misties, Fantasies, Candids and Formals in 
rich, glowing color. Flexible plans special­
ly prices for student budgets. Call 
523-5660 after 7 pm. weekdays, and any 
time weekends.
Going to San Francisco, March 18th, need
riders. Must drive and share expenses. Call 
Rebecca, 363-2298.
For Sale: Univox 6 string acoustic guitar
with case and strap. Excellent condition. 
Ten free lessons thrown in. Also: Soft but 
sturdy guitar case with strap. Great for 
hitching. 687-7034 til 2 am.
Personals
To the girl who stole my donut: Eat it. 
Anna,
Anna sweet as sweet can be,
You have no lack of energy!
One or two or maybe three 
'Tis quite a love I share with thee!
Oh, Anna, dear, please hear my plea,
I want you near eternally.
You've made me all I want to be,
And best of all you're always free!
—Carl
B’NAI B'RITH HILLEL • JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
ISRAEL WEEK
ISRAEL DAY AT CMU
Wednesday, January 30, 7 7 a.m. to 5 p.m.
SKIBO Ballroom
Featuring: Kibbutz Exhibit - Israeli Food, Pamphlets, Slide Show, Art Exhibit, Music, Posters
1:30 p.m. Room 45 in SKIBO - SLIDE PRESENTATION TITLED "JERUSALEM"
8 p.m. Special Panel Discussion with the Israel Student Organization on 
"The Chance of Peace" in Room 45 of SKIBO
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2 - 9:00 p.m. - ICE SKATING
Israel Week will end with an intercampus graduate and undergraduate ICE SKATING PARTY at the Alpine 
Ice Chalet; buses will be provided and reservations should be made by no later than Thursday, January 31. 
Cost: $2.50 (includes skating, skates, transportation) ALL STUDENTS WELCOME! Buses will leave from Y-IKC
at 9:00 p.m.
************
BAGEL & L0X BRUNCH February 3 11:00 a.m. Hillel Library
Speaker: Dr. Mark Perlman , U. of Pgh.(
Topic: "Demographic and Economic Changes Among American Jews"
Cost $1.00
315 S. Bellefield Avenue 621-8875
(Across from Heinz Chapel)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974—Page 5
Hunt 'til 1:00 A.M.
continued from page 1
concerned about the possibility of the 
library becoming an inadequate facility if 
money formerly used for expansion is used 
in keeping the library open longer.
Schatz’s letter states, “We will have to 
forego something else in the academic 
budget to support the additional expend­
itures. I don’t know yet what that will be.” 
Complete schedules for library hours 
will be posted in the Hunt and Science and 
Engineering Libraries in the near future.
Survey Results
(2) LIBRARY PREFERENCE
Hunt only 30.0%
Engineering and Science 8.7%
Both libraries 51.1%
(3) PURPOSE FOR USING UBRARY
Quiet study areas only 26.1%
Reference only 33.4%
Both study and reference 40.5%
Other 4.9%
(These people also responded to above 
categories.)
USAGE AFTER 11:00 P.M.
(1) CLOSING TIME PREFERENCESTimes per week:(if hours extended)
11 p.m. or earlier-5601.7%
17.5%
(No. of students, corresponds to 5.6% of220.9%
sample)327.1%
Later than 11 p.m. -944 94.4%412.5%
12 a.m. or later-935 93.5%510.4%
1 a.m. or later-529 52.9%61.9%
2 a.m. or later-225 22.5%74.5%
3 a.m. or later-93 9.3%
All night-67 6.7%(excludes people who prefer an 11:00 p. m.
94.4% are unhappy with the present library 
hours
-Error-
In an article that appeared on page 11 in 
last week’s issue of the TARTAN, Mary 
Shaw and Professor Charles Eastman were 
erroneously connected with the 
Computation Center. The listing should 
have read Comp. Sci. department.
or earlier closing time)
The average usage is: 3.0 times per week
SUMMER JOBS
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches and 
Resorts throughout the nation. 
Over 50,000 students aided each 
year. For FREE information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve­
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kalispell, MT 59901.
....YOU MUST APPLY EARLY ...
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Winter Lunch and Lecture Series 
JEWISH THEMES IN WORLD LITERATURE
Monday February 4 11:30 A.M.
Speaker: Professor Michel Fougeres
Topic: "Schlemihl: From Jewish Folksy Figure to
Western European Romantic Hero 
Location: SKIBO, Rooms 105, 106
(Cost for lunch is $1.00 or just come and listen)
315 S. Bellefield Avenue 621-8875
(Across from Heinz Chapel)
Present Shelter 
Formerly Opposed
n oaqe 1 / f Icontinued from oaqe
Dr. Rutledge was asked about the 
present bus shelter at the intersection of 
Forbes and Morewood and why it was 
built. He said that he was against the con­
struction of that shelter, and that it was 
built only because some people on campus 
insisted that it be built.
Dr. Rutledge was not clear as to who 
those people were but did make it clear 
that those involved did know of the plans 
for the Bus pull off lanes and still insisted 
that the present structure be constructed. 
Dr. Rutledge stated that the University 
paid for the shelter but he was not sure of 
the exact price. He called the shelter in­
adequate and wasteful and had tried to halt
construction but it was put up against his 
objections.
Dr. Ron RutledgePhoto by Brian Smith
HOW WELL CAN YOU SELL?
The TARTAN Business Staff needs help for 
its advertising operations. We are about 
to launch a brand new ad solicitation cam­
paign and a few new dedicated members 
would insure success. Business majors, this 
is a chance to obtain direct advertising ex­
perience and some marketing skills. The 
only requirement is a willingness to work. 
If you have no prior knowledge or ex­
perience, we will be happy to train you. 
The majority of the work deals with local 
and campus-group advertisements. If in­
terested, contact:
Lester Nathan 
extension 656 or 883 
Skibo 52
TWENTYONEHUNDRED
February 12 to 16 Skibo Ballroom is coming/

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974
Von Brauchitsch:Filming The Revolution
Mat von Brauchitsch, head of CMU’s 
MFA television and film program, came 
here in 1972. He received his MS
& PhD in the Natural Science1 and studied 
film production at Columbia. The 1970 
winner of AFTRA’s award for an outstan­
ding television special is currently working 
on a twelve part series on the American 
Revolution for National Geographic, 
by Debbie Siegel
Von Brauchitsch : The history of the
project goes back about four years. In ‘68 
we did the first co-operative production 
with QED and the Drama Department, ex­
perimenting with television drama. It was 
called Confrontation. That led to the next 
one called Taking, and then came another 
one called The Boston Massacre. After the 
Boston Massacre we got a grant to do a 
program called The Biography of George 
Washington, which was the story of George 
Washington’s first campaign, where he 
fought his first battle and lost. We did a 
ninety minute television drama on that 
which was really very successful.
After that went on the air, National 
Geographic called us and said they’d like to 
do something about the revolution, and we 
went to see them. They submitted a pro­
posal; the result was that we got a contract 
to do twelve half-hour dramatic films on 
the revolution for schools and for public 
broadcasting. These films are dramatic one 
acts.
They’re not teaching films in the old 
fashioned sense, and yet they are. This will 
perhaps be the first series of fully dramatic 
teaching films available in the United 
States. They’re set up to work with printed 
materials and will be distributed nation­
wide by National Geographic. It’s a pretty 
big job.
That’s six hours of drama, and without 
the combination between CMU and QED, 
we couldn’t do that here. If the series is 
successful, we’ll be able to start a major 
center of historic films here in Pittsburgh. 
This series covers just about every aspect of 
the revolution including the historic, politi­
cal, economic, social. Mainly, it’s an at­
tempt to humanize the revolution, to do 
away with the old myth of perfect found­
ing fathers and replace it with real live 
people who fought for what they thought 
they believed in. Each film is based on a 
conflict. The hero has to choose between 
two very fundamental values.
For instance, one of the first films we’ll 
be doing is about the retreat of Washing­
ton’s army to New Jersey. Everybody de­
serted him. These are little known facts, 
but only three thousand men were left to 
face the British. The protagonist is a simple 
farm boy who has to make up his mind 
whether to enlist with George Washington 
or not. It’s a very realistic problem because 
at the time it’s set, in 1776, a soldier didn’t 
know who the “good guys” and the bad 
were, or who Washington was. He’d never 
heard about the man. There wasn’t really 
that concept of “the father” of this coun­
try. Washington was a well meaning Vir­
ginia man with practically no experience. 
It’s difficult to say. The soldier gets no 
money, has no clothes, a loser. Why 
shouldn’t he go home?
TARTAN: So you’re going to focus more 
on regular people than well known heroes 
in history.
Van Brauchitsch: Yes, but at least half of 
the films are about people you’ve never 
heard about. We’re going to try to show 
both sides. There’s a film from the British 
point of view. One story is about a Tory, a 
man who chose “the other side.” The man 
who goes up against the founding fathers 
isn’t necessarily a villain. We’re trying to 
shbw that this was a very difficult human 
conflict, one which split families right 
down the middle. We’re trying to bring it 
down to a very strong emotional level and 
a human foundation that young viewers 
particularly become interested in.
TARTAN: What age groups are the films 
intended for?
Von Brauchitsch: Fifth, eighth, and
eleventh grade. It’s quite obvious that some 
films will be more suited for fifth grade 
and and some films will be more suited for 
eleventh grade. Eleventh grade is about 
“general audience” level. When you do a 
program for a general audience, that’s a- 
bout the background and the intellectual 
comprehension that you aim for.
TARTAN: Where did the original idea 
spring from?
Von Brauchitsch: Well, there are actually 
three components of the actual production 
team. The CMU Drama Department, the 
CMU History Department, and QED. There 
are three people from the history depart­
ment who feature in this, who have helped 
with the fundamental ideas. . . Dr. Edwin 
Fenton, Dr. Baier, and Tony Penna.
The artistic execution is from the 
Drama Department. Leon Katz was the 
playwright and the chief story editor. I 
would hope that almost three fourths of 
the actors will be CMU students. Clitis An­
derson is the art director. Bill Mathews is 
the set designer. Barbara Anderson is the 
costume designer. So that’s really very 
firmly in the hands of the Drama 
Department.
QED administers the project. The grant 
was made to QED, and they also provide 
the technical backup, running the studios 
and all of that.
TARTAN: Where is it going to be filmed?
Von Brauchitsch: The exteriors will be 
filmed as much as possible on actual loca­
tions. In May, we’ll be shooting a good deal 
in Williamsburg, then in England in June 
and July; we’ll be filming in London if all 
goes well, then we’ll shoot in South Caro­
lina.
Right now, because of budget, all the 
interiors will be done here, in the studio. 
That’s where the skill of the set designer 
comes in. Clitis Anderson and Bill Mathews 
have begun to build some of the sets. From 
what I’ve seen, some are going to be better 
than the actual locations.
TARTAN: When will the specials be ready 
for broadcasting on television?
Von Brauchitsch: Well, we’re trying to get 
it ready for ‘75, so we can get in on the 
bicentennial year. The films will become 
available for schools in the fall of ‘75, and 
the series of specials will probably go on 
that same fall.
TARTAN: What was your role in the
creation of the program?
Von Brauchitsch: Well, essentially the 
whole thing is my idea. I’ve been personal­
ly very interested in history because it gives 
the opportunity to look at the country and 
its values from a remote point of view. 
There are lots of issues that shouldn’t be
treated in a contemporary setting. People 
might be turned off, they’ve just heard too 
much of it. We hope they will get a very 
positive feeling from it. That’s very impor­
tant. People feel that the problems are not 
unique that they’re involved in. There have 
been some extremely fine courageous peo­
ple who’ve tackled them.
TARTAN: The programs you’ve been 
describing remind me somewhat of Profiles 
in Courage. Were the inspirations for the 
productions similar?
Von Brauchitsch: That’s pretty well taken 
as a comparison. Maybe these could be 
called “Profiles in Human Endeavor.” The 
problem always looks very different at the 
grassroots level and I’d very much like to 
deal with people at the grassroots level. I 
think the big difference between Profiles in 
Courage and this is that Profiles in Courage 
deals with real political situations. This 
does not deal with political situations. . . I 
hope that the audience can more readily 
relate to it. We try particularly to bring it 
down to a conflict level that is easy for 
young people to understand.
TARTAN: You’re teaching film and tele­
vision at CMU now, as I understand it. 
How did you get interested in American 
history and what is your background?
Von Brauchitsch: My background is
chemistry, I was originally an instructor in 
Chemistry, and then I changed because I 
thought the challenges in the Social Sci-
Photo by Ellen Eddy 
ences were greater. The day of the natural 
sciences is over. The day of the social sci­
ences is coming. It was that change-partly 
in the 1930’s and the 1940’s. I think 
they’ve barely scratched the surface in 
knowing how to educate people to organ­
ize a society in which people today can 
really be satisfied and fulfilled.
Around the turn of the century, scien­
tists still thought they’d discovered the key 
to the universe and the whole world could 
be explained by means of equations. That’s 
a heavy thought, and it was tremendous 
discovery that young people tried to prove. 
Step by step their key disappeared and 
today. . . so what? People said “the moon” 
so what?
I don’t know if you’re familiar with the 
incredible excitement when the first man 
reached the North Pole. The whole world 
went absolutely berserk with that. Today, 
people aren’t so excited about the moon 
because they feel the job to be done is 
here. They’re concerned with our interper­
sonal relationships, how to shape human 
life, to make sense. In any case I think you 
will probably get a storm of protest from 
the scientists over what I’ve said, although 
I do tell them the essence of all education 
is to familiarize young people with the 
tradition they belong to . .. so they can 
master it and adapt it to their own needs.
If people don’t know their tradition, 
they will find themselves without an identi­
ty and envy others for their cultural iden­
tity. I think America has a very strong 
cultural identity. It might just as well be 
discovered.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 29, 1974—Page 7
Von BBB Brauchitsch, conL.
TARTAN: Do you see the media as a big 
way to promote this cultural identity?
»
Von Brauchitsch: I think Public Broadcast­
ing’s main task is to remind of or bring to 
the people values that can serve here and 
now to prove their own tradition. It’s not a 
question of simply dishing out the old 
myths and the patriotic cliches, but simply 
of searching for the values which, if you 
believe in them, will enable you to lead a0 better life and to better cope with your 
situation.
Let’s see what the old values are and 
how they can be adapted.
TARTAN: Could you tell anything that 
specifically may have influenced your 
background?s,
£ Von Brauchitsch: I was born in Germany
and I grew up in Switzerland and then 
came to the United States in 1954. That’s 
been an incredible experience to discover 
this country. I would have to talk to you 
about that for hours, because seeing this 
country from the “outside” as a European 
is incredible. Did you by any chance watch 
when Kissinger made his speech before he
^ became Secretary of State? There is some­
thing that can’t be explained in terms of 
experiments in the matters of humanity. 
There is so much in the forefront of this 
country, so many positive ideas. You must 
work in a country before you know what 
it’s like
TARTAN: What influenced you to become
involved with film?
Von Brauchitsch: I see print as the primary 
medium of factual information, and it will 
never be replaced by film and television. 
Film and televisión are much more effec­
tive in conveying values, attitudes. Film 
and television is the tradition of the old 
theater, where you made a moral point 
such as that made by storytellers in primi­
tive cultures. Instead of getting just an 
audio stimulus, you get an audio-visual 
stimulus. Television is a medium to dis­
seminate factual information that pertains 
to the here and now, when something hap­
pened somewhere and you’re in on it im­
mediately. . . within a half hour. Television 
is not very good at presenting analysis or 
facts that don’t pertain to immediate life.
TARTAN: Do you think CMU will be ex­
panding its film department?
Von Brauchitsch: That is very hard to say. 
Dr. Cyert is very concerned about having a 
sound budget and weathering the economic 
crisis. Therefore, there would be no wild 
expansion. Everything will depend on 
whether what we have now is successful 
and if people see the merit in it. As condi­
tions improve and as the film work within 
the department proves itself, I believe it 
will expand.
We always want it to be small and of 
real quality. We now have more than five 
grad students per class, so they get the best 
learning experience possible. If you had
fifteen they’d just be sitting around. Now, 
we may be operating very close to opti­
mum capacity. It is up to us within the 
program to make it come out right.
TARTAN: Do you think the difference 
between television and film is like the dif­
ference between a newspaper and a book? 
Von Brauchitsch: That’s exactly it. Tele­
vision gets just headlines. You hear what 
has happened. To comprehend what it 
written you need a certain body of factual 
information, and for that you reach out for 
print. The reason that I think Look and 
Collier's folded is what they were too pic- 
toral. It’s the kind of think that you don’t 
need any more.
What magazines do now is specialize, 
Psychology Today, Newsweek. The great 
papers are very much needed and non-fic­
tion books are going extraordinarily well, a 
lot better than fiction because again, the 
story telling element may be dead because 
the storytelling is done on television. A 
novel never conveyed factual information 
anyhow.
TARTAN: You have expressed interest in 
a number of subject areas. How do you 
view the emphasis on professionalism at 
Carnegie-Mellon. . . do you think it might 
stifle some of the diversity you ’re in touch 
with?
Von Brauchitsch: What I like tremendously 
about the Drama department is its profes­
sional orientation, which means you edu­
cate craftsmen. For instance, we have the
Masters program in film and television. We 
don’t educate people to “do their own 
thing.” We educate people in the media to 
serve the needs of the community as 
mature craftsmen, mature technically as 
well as emotionally.
A lot of other film schools just sent you 
out to do a five minute “avant garde” film 
about something that nobody else under­
stands. 1 personally don’t believe in that. I 
think one of the new modes of living is 
serving the community, not just “doing 
your own thing.”
I really think Carnegie is one of the 
finest schools I’ve ever seen, certainly in 
regard to the Drama Department. I’ve seen 
other Drama departments where they’re 
more or less playing around.
TARTAN: Then, how do you find the 
humanities fitting into the scheme of 
professionalism ?
Von Brauchitsch: I’m really not qualified 
to say. The people in the history depart­
ment focus very heavily on educating 
teachers, which is also very professional. 
The social sciences are the area where the 
great discoveries are, in terms of how you 
can serve others best and make sense.
The essence of the natural sciences was 
the relationship between man and the uni­
verse. The essence of the social sciences is 
the relationship between man and man. 
That is the relationship which should pre­
occupy us and to which we should give 
every last amount of our resources and our 
Imagination.______________
THE EVERY OTHER TUESDAY 
AFTERNOON FORUM
PRESENTS
DR. RICHARD CYERT
IN A DISCUSSION - FORUM
TUESDAY — FEBRUARY 5 — 12:30 P.M
IN THE WHERRET ROOM, SKIBO 
FREE TO ALL CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF
DR. RONALD RUTLEDGE
NEXT: FEBRUARY 19 
DR. EDWARD SCHATZ
SPONSORED BY THE ACTIVITIES BOARD
DEAN EARLE SWANK

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-Tuesdaÿ, January 29, 1974
Boycott Result:Financial AidAnother CommitteeM'^'®"Availablecontinued from page i
Photo by Ed Levine
cious,” added another, who remained in 
Skibo.
Ms. Cohen’s reaction to the student­
generated boycott was highly favorable. “I 
think it’s great what you’re doing,” she 
said to Kevin Clark as he was talking 
people out of eating at Skibo.
“I’m very pleased that they are making 
a study. I only hope they make it accurate 
and thorough,” she said.
What’s going to happen to Skibo? No­
thing is going to happen for a while, but 
various proposals have been made:
—Keep it as it is.
-Change it to the same system as More- 
wood.
-Offer two main entrees with seconds 
on everything but the entrees.
Thursday’s boycott inspired a meeting 
of Ms. Cohen, Kevin and others who ex­
pressed concern about the contract sit­
FORUM
THE
UFW MOVEMENT:
Justice orJail ?
THE FARMWORKER IN U.S. HISTORY 
and THE MOVEMENT TODAY
-FRANK ORTIZ, UFW
THE LABOR CAMPS: 3,Pho3 tbh ,oyEdio
-DAVE BENSON
intermission: MUSIC OF THEMOVEMENT
LIVE
CIVIL RIGHTS AND THE FARMWORKER
( LAW PROFESSOR to be announced)
THE MOVEMENT AND THE UNIVERSITY
- SHELLEY BURHANS
TO CONCLUDE WITH A QUESTION/ 
DISUSSION PE&IOD
MON. FEB. 4AND 11
ISRAAELL AWK
SKIBO
TH
uation. At the meeting Kevin discussed the 
second part of his two-fold plan. “We’re 
making sure the survey’s legitimate in 
everybody’s eyes. Student Senate will be 
with us when we make the survey to be 
sure that we’re not biased.” Ms. Cohen 
added, “I do believe it’s an indication of 
what a group of students want.”
Ms. Cohen also said that she was un­
aware of the magnitude of the discontent. 
She added, “You can’t change things over­
night. Students are getting a tremendous 
amount of privileges as far as food ser­
vices.” She cited the three types of eating 
facilities as an example. “I don’t know 
whether students are spoiled here or un­
aware of what’s happening to food service 
here today.”
The outcome of the emergency meeting 
was the institution of a food service 
committee to explore the problems in­
herent in the food contract.
Undergraduate financial aid application 
forms for the 1974-75 academic year are 
now available in the Financial Aid Office. 
These forms were mailed to all current aid 
recipients late in December. Any aid 
recipient who did not receive the forms or 
any undergraduate who wishes to apply for 
aid for the first time should obtain the 
required application forms at the Financial 
Aid Office,Warner Hall 215.
The Parents’ Confidential Statement 
must be sent to the College Scholarship 
Service no later than February 15, 1974. 
The Student Application must be sub­
mitted to the Financial Aid Office by 
March 15, 1974.
Any questions regarding the financial 
aid application procedure should be 
directed to the Financial Aid Office.
'Wanted - H&SS"Photo by Rose
RESEARCHRESEARCH
$2 PER PAGE 
FREE CATALOG
Our up-to-date mail-order catalog list­ing thousands of topics is available absolutely free-we’ll.» even pay the postage! Delivery tafts 1 to 2 days. Write
NAT’L RESEARCH BANK
420 No Palm Dr , Bev Hill*. Cal 90210 
TELEPHONE (213) 271 5439 
Material is sold for 
research purposes only
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-fkage, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213)477 8474 or 477 5493
Our research material is sold for research assistance only.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 29, 1974—Page 9
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
An entire omelette fell into my lap at 
Farmer Dave’s. It was an error totally, but 
eggs are good for a shampoo and they 
cleaned my skirt better than Woolite, so all 
is forgiven. Farmer Dave’s is an omelette 
palace, as all they serve is omelettes and 
the one they served me I somehow 
knocked ofi the plate but they were quick 
to replaofc it. Farmer Dane’s is arranged like 
a country kitchen with big wooden cab­
inets and utensils hanging from the ceiling. 
You have to duck when you walk in or 
you’ll be guillotined by a flying spatula 
that’s four feet long. There are 4 tables at 
Farmer Dave’s and each seats 10 people so 
you have to be prepared for dinner part­
ners of which ours were egg distributors 
who were looking to supply Farmer Dave.
There are two more verses, one about 
omelettes and another about love and for­
saking and such country western stuff. 
Then when they are through singing, this 
deep voiced waiter announces the ingred­
ients of the latest omelette. The winner 
was zucchini and leechee nuts inside an 
omelette sprinkled with black papper. It’s 
puzzling why they have these ingredients 
on hand but they do and it was a fine 
omelette.
Everyone at the winning table got a 
sampling and then the guy who designed it 
got a plateful that must have taken half a 
dozen eggs and all it cost was $2.25. For 
$2.00 they served one of my conspirators a 
banana-apricot omelette with four eggs for 
sure, and I had a provolone-peanut buttej- 
raisin omelette. On the table there are 
placecards that are egg shaped and say “Eat 
Eggs”, and it explains why: two eggs 
supply 1/4 to 1/6 of the grams you need of 
protein per day and though the price of 
eggs is up it’s still cheaper than meat.
The average-sized omelette at Farmer 
Dave’s ha& four eggs. You can have jfresh- 
squeezed orange juice or Michelob beer out 
of the tap to wash down your combin­
ations. You can also have a middle aged 
waitress named Frieda (they all wear name 
tags) who insists that you finish your food. 
My omelette was mammoth and I kept 
resting it out but she insisted that I ate 
what I paid for or she’d make me take it 
home. Her sister, who is not a twin but 
whose name is Rita, is a waitress there too, 
but she is somewhat demure. Farmer Dave 
is a man who resembles Charles Atlas 
muscle building advertisements and he 
comes to the table to ask how you like 
your eggs and then he shows this muscle he 
has on his arm which he attributes totally 
to his intake of eggs. All the egg distrib­
utors had American Cheese omelettes.
At Farmer Dave’s mostly everyone was 
related to each other, including the clients. 
Also they keep baby chicks in an incu­
bator-type tank at the cash register. Eat 
Eggs!
In Rochford, England, a man who 
barked back at a dog was fined $12. He 
admitted using insulting words and be­
havior toward the dog and its owner during 
a scuffle. *
a
m
The menu listed 50 omelettes last week 
and new ones are added almost daily de­
pending upon the preference of the client­
ele. If you create an omelette that they 
haven’t got a variation of, they list it and if 
it gets listed they have a ceremony. The 
ceremony is the waiters and waitresses who 
dress like dignified country bumpkins 
gathering in a circle around your table with 
jug band equipment and barbershop quint- 
ent harmony. They sing the Praise be the 
Omelette Song which goes something like:
When I was just a chile ’ on the farm,
My mama put an egg between my arms 
She held me so I cracked into her cast 
iron pan,
And smiled to teach me the secrets of 
her omelette plans.
COPY CAT
XEROX COPY CENTER 
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
4415 FIFTH AVE. 
683-8040
Our Low Copy Prices Are:
1 thru 15 6C/copy ) OF 
1 6 thru 50 4< . .copy SAME 
51 and up 3</copy \ ORIGINAL
EXPERT TYPING 
All done on IBM Selectrics
Reports, term papers, thesis, 
dissertations.
NOW ... OFFSET PRINTING.. .
.. . LOW PRICES ...
,c4._
Very
VT
^ 'tmu*- Y00 ii
JMb -W*. AK) A*H-TVi*~

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 29, 1974
———————————
ClfTHA
1HE EXORCIST
Arnie Karr
The Exorcist opened on December 26, 
1973 at selected theatres throughout the 
country. The film industry is having a sec­
ond Golden Age. America is suppressing a 
scream.
Why make a movie about a novel, even 
a bestseller, if the work constitutes, in 
essence, nothing but an all-out attack on 
one’s ability to keep his eyes open and his 
food down? Quite simply, because it is 
there. The Exorcist will be remembered as 
the Mount Everest of the screen, Holly­
wood’s first test tube baby, a horrifying 
miracle.
The film has generated nearly as much 
controversy as monotheism did years ago, 
and, as far as anyone can tell, it has bro­
ken any attendance records set by any 
monotheistic services, including Christmas 
at the Vatican or Yom Kippur in New 
York (always a big winner). It will certain­
ly win Academy Award nominations in 
many areas, as well as citations from oc­
cult worshippers and mental illness enthu­
siasts. As a critic, I find it sufficient to 
assert that this film should have been 
made. Others aren’t so sure.
William Friedkin, director, and William 
Peter Blatty, author of the book and
screenplay and producer, are co-conspira­
tors in a plot to frighten their viewers into 
a state known as “satanic panic,” under 
which the subject begins to view anything 
less commonplace than the flushing of a 
toilet as a sign of possession. Still, as the 
Marx Brothers and Charlie Chaplin are per- 
enially applauded for their nearness to 
comic perfection; as Beethoven is heralded 
for his closeness to tonal ecstasy, so 
should the director and writer of this film 
be heartily congratulated for their nearly 
perfect depiction of the ultimate superna­
tural horror show. The effect on the audi­
ence is intense and, in many cases, unwel­
come. Many were frightened by Psycho, 
others were repulsed by Deep Throat, but 
these were certainly not bad films. The 
film public, generally, has been lied to. 
Critics have told them that The Exorcist is 
a poor film. What they’ve meant to say is 
that they resented their occupational obli­
gation to see the film through to the end. 
The problem is not a bad film, but critics 
who don’t know the difference between 
their own terror and their implied objec­
tivity as reviewers. Critics scare as easily aS 
other audiences.
The solution to this peculiar problem is 
to develop a questionnaire that will deter­
mine whether or not a person is emotion­
ally and spriitually equipped to view the 
film. Such a questionnaire follows: 1) Are 
you easily scared by oncoming traffic? 2) 
Do you believe in God a lot? Were you 
unable to sit through 3) Johnny Got His 
Gun? 4) The Devils? 5) The CBS Evening 
News with Walter Cronkite on November 
7, 1972? 6) Do you fear being forced to 
attend the church/temple/mosque of your 
choice? 7) Do you find Gerald Ford more 
exciting that Spiro Agnew? 8) Did you 
once believe that all asprins were alike? 9) 
Did you buy Cup‘a Soup within one week 
of seeing their first commercial? 10) Did 
you “knock wood” that there would be a 
copy of Man, Myth and Magic left?
If you answered “yes” to question one, 
it is suggested that you avoid Forbes Ave­
nue. If you answered “yes” to question 
nine, it is suggested that you avoid seeing 
The Exorcist. You are obviously very im­
pressionable and will leave the theatre 
firmly convinced that your roommate is 
the Devil, or would be if he/she really 
needed the work.
However, you’ll be missing some superb 
special effects and some fine perfor­
mances, especially those by Jason Miller as 
Father Karras, Max Von Sydow as the 
exorcist and Linda Blair, who was careful­
ly auditioned and tested for the part of
Regan, the eventual embodiment of the 
Devil.
A lot of ugly events take place in The 
Exorcist. The power of God terminates 
them and returns things to normal. He, in 
the film’s terms, is as beautiful and strong 
as the Devil is ugly and evil. You can see 
the film, if properly sedated, as nothing 
but a macabre morality play, with the 
Supreme Being triumphing over the Su- 
perme Anti-Being. The physical ugliness of 
the film is only surpassed by the implied 
ugliness of Satan, so it is understandable 
that Regan isn’t made to look like Ali 
MacGraw or Ryan O’Neal.
A marquee will often include excerpts 
from a review in quotes, such as Deep 
Throat-Breathtaking. If I had to sum up 
The Exorcist for such a marquee, my two 
words would be, “Unbelievably 
grotesque,” in that order.
And if told to give too words of advice 
to those who read this review, they would 
be, “See it.” If you can’t sit through it, 
leave; but do your best because the film is 
a real accomplishment. It will show you, 
more than any film ever made, just how 
powerful the film medium can be.
(The Exorcist is now showing at the 
Warner Theater.)
THEATRE
Trouble in River City
by Susan N. Klein
Anybody up for some smatterings? 
There’s nothing more frustrating than 
trying to write a column called “Theater'* 
every week in a city where there isn’t much 
of it to speak of. I spend a lot of time 
watching the mail for announcements of 
theater groups* events here and there, but 
it’s all so seldom. Anyway, this week 
there’s enough smatterings around to con­
stitute an actual body of writing.
First of all, the Playhouse has closed 
down all its Equity operations, possibly 
forever. The Children’s Theater section of 
the Playhouse is still in operation, along 
with some special projects from Point Park 
College. (If you’re quick, you can catch 
The Ghost of Mr. Penny before it closes, or 
if you’d prefer, wait until Rumpelstiltskin 
opens in March.) The Playhouse had sold 
about 2,500 subscriptions during its big 
drive a few months ago, about half the 
expected response. They get virtually no 
government money, have no big patrons 
like Civic Light Opera does, and are there­
fore as good as dead. I would still suggest 
that Pittsburgh is a town where a Dinner 
Theater arrangement might go over well. 
Walt Harper’s Attic, nobody’s fool, has 
opened such an establishment, presenting a 
series of musical comedies, starting with 
the currently-running Sweet Charity. The 
set-up seems to be fairly successful, and it 
ought to serve as encouragement for the 
board of the Playhouse to consider such an 
arrangement, should the Playhouse decide 
to resurrect itself somehow.
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre, 
which operates up the block from the 
Playhouse on Fifth Avenue and Craft, is 
presenting something called “The Inter­
nationally Famous Incredible Flying 
Zookenie Brothers Daredevil Circus” on 
Saturday, February 2 at 8:30 p.m. I 
honestly don’t know quite what the 
I.F.I.F. Zookenie Brothers do, but like 
Todd Rundgren says, it’s something .... 
anything.
Ever hear of The Margo Lovelace 
Marionette Theatre? Many people haven’t, 
and the theatre is practically right under
our noses on Ellsworth Avenue in 
Shadyside. They are presenting The 
Sleeping Beauty for seven weeks right now. 
The Lovelace operation is by no means 
geared for children. The cast involves thirty 
marionettes, expertly crafted and master­
fully handled. Earle Gister, head of the 
drama department here, is connected with 
the theatre in some capacity--his name is 
on the letterhead, at any rate.
The -next drama department Mainstage 
production will be Romeo and Juliet, to 
run from February 14th through the 23rd. 
This will be a somewhat innovative little 
production. The Capulet family will be 
portrayed by two alternating casts--one 
black, one white. It seems to me that this is 
taking the subtle implications of the story 
and blowing them up to the proportions of 
a West Side Story, minus the music, dance, 
and appropriate time period. A black 
Capulet family really sounds like a com­
plete anachronism to me. But of course, 
judgement should not be passed until both 
casts are seen. If you see Mainstage pro­
ductions, you begin to recognize and
remember names of actors, as with any 
repertory company. And although I’m sure 
the department would shun any “Star 
System” method of publicity, I don’t think 
it hurts to say that Nancy Shultis is the 
white Juliet, Laura Booker is the black 
Juliet, and Stephen L. Joseph, (whose 
comic flair is flawless) is Romeo. (No, they 
are not going to put blackface on him 
every other night.)
And finally,here are some interesting 
smatterings of Pittsburgh Theatre Trivia. 
George S. Kaufmann, the greatest comedy 
writer and director America has ever had, 
was born here. His first play, (a religious 
one no doubt), was performed at the 
Rodef Shalom Temple on Fifth Avenue.
One of Kaufmann’s collaborators, Marc 
Connelly, author of Green Pastures, and 
co-author with Kaufmann of Beggar on 
Horseback, was born in McKeesport.
And Oscar Levant, the cynical, dour- 
faced, wize-cracking, piano playing best- 
buddy of George Gershwin, was also born 
here. And you thought Pittsburgh wasn’t a 
theater town.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 29, 1974—Page 13
Tartan Icemen Score Hat 
Trick Over St. Vincent
4^ Dave Girdany
On Wednesday night, January 23, at the 
Sewickley arena, the C-MU Tartans con­
tended with the St. Vincent Bearcats for 
the last time this season. Although the 
Bearcats have one of the worst records in 
the WPIHA, the Tartans did not have an 
easy time securing a 4-3 victory. For the 
Acond consecutive game, C-MU did not 
play like the first place team it is. (St. 
Vincent, however, should not be taken 
lightly, despite its record.) The Tartans 
have yet to put together 45 minutes of 
good solid hockey.
For the second consecutive game, C-MU 
played a good first period. Matt Goldsmith 
opened the scoring early in the period, as 
jj^ intercepted a Bearcat pass near the blue 
line, and then beat the goalie with a good 
shot. The Tartans scored again late in the 
period to take a 2-0 lead, on a beautiful 
play. After getting a pass from Mike Ken­
worthy, Rick Farman hit Mike Gallaway, 
cutting across the St. Vincent goalmouth 
for an easy goal. However, less than two 
minutes after this power play goal, St. 
^incent scored to reduce the deficit to one 
at the end of the period.
St. Vincent tied the game midway 
through the second period on a power play 
goal. Vance scored the tying goal with only
eight seconds remaining on a penalty to 
Jeff Jacobs. However, Pete Davis put the 
Tartans in front to stay with a backhand 
shot three minutes later. The score stood 
3-2 in the Tartans’ favor at the end of two.
Although controlling most of the play, 
C-MU had trouble scoring and the score 
remained 3-2 until Tom Grimm scored his 
first goal, on a power play from in front of 
the net, with two and a half minutes left in 
the game. St. Vincent scored with twenty- 
one seconds left to make the final 4-3 in 
favor of C-MU.
The usual procedure for the C-MU 
hockey team is not to play a good first 
period, but to dominate play for the rest of 
the game. But in the last two games, the 
Tartans have played well in the first period 
only to barely win the game. If the Tartans 
can manage to play well for a whole game, 
they will win easily. This team has too 
much talent to go through the season with­
out doing so. This Saturday at the Civic 
Arena may be a three period game for the 
Tartans, as they face the Panthers of Pitt. 
C-MU must win or tie to remain in sole 
possession of first place. However, they 
must beat Indiana (game played two days 
ago) and also the much improved Penn 
State McKeesport hockey team tonight at 
Alpine. Expect to see C-MU in first place, 
though, at the end of the season.
THE CMU WOMEN'S 
INTERCOLLEGIATE BASKETBALL TEAM
Cordially Invite
^ The Members of the Men s Basketball Team,
All Students and Faculty
TO OUR FIRST HOME-GAME WITH SETON HILL 
# CMU Main Gym January 30 6:15 P.M.
(Rumor has it that we are a powerful team this year, so come on 
out and discover for yourself. Bring your friends.)
REMAINING SCHEDULE:
CSCFEB. 125:00HOMEPITTFEB. 184:30HOME
LA ROCHEFEB. 144:30HOMEDUQUESNEFEB. 219:30HOME
GENEVAFEB. 161:00AWAYINDIANAFEB. 277:00HOME
CSCMAR. 21:30AWAY
BETHANYMAR. 74:30HOME
Scoring Summary
1] (1) C-MU—Goldsmith 3 (unassisted) 2:45; (2) C-MU—Gallaway 2 (Farman, 
Kenworthy) 11:53; (3) SV—Donatelli (Morris, Bernacki) 13:28.
2] (4) SV—Vance (Hohenfeld) 7:23; (5) C-MU—Davis 5 (unassisted) 10:21.
3] (6) C-MU-Grimml (Goldsmith) 12:30; (7) SV-Carlton (Ghalaih) 14:39.
MAKE YOUR OWN
• COMMERCIALS
• AB & CAMPUS ADS
• DOCUMENTARY
• CARTOONS
Join the AB Video-Tape Committee
leave your name and number for Marty Lisberger 
at the Skibo info desk.
LIE DRESBOLDLESLIE DRESBOLD
SAVE $30... REG. $119.50 
ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS 
with Automatic SQUARE ROOT
Choose from Texas instruments, Summit, 
Cirvus (make components for H P), Meicor
• Reciprocal • Percentage
• Automatic Constant
• Raise-to*Power
• Floating Decimal
FITS
IN
POCKET8950
Operates on AC and DC 
Rechargeable Battery 
FULLY GUARANTEED
^IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIHIIMMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMUIIIIMNMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUNNMMUINMNIMINNIItt
| FREE ...S5.00 DISCOUNT
with this ad on these Calculators
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Tri-State’s Top Specialist in Typewriters. Adders, 
Calculators
TRADE-INS ACCEPTED .. .BUDGET 
MASTER CHARGE and BANKAMERICARD
LESLIE DRESBOLD StudensuBo
DOWNTOWN MONROEVILLE SOUTH HILLS
Fort Pitt Typewriter 
613 Liberty Ave. 
Dial 281 8320 
Monday 9 to 8
4003 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Park Shop 22 nr. GB 
Dial 372 8138 
Daily 11 8 Sat. 10 to 5
So. Hills Village 
Dial 563 0330 
Dial 833 3299 
Daily 10 to 9:30
SHARPSBURG
525 Ma n SI.
Free Parking 
Dial 781 1308 
Daily 9 to 5:30

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 29, 1974
rhe Last Chance
by Glenn Campbell
This time the world didn’t hold its 
breath. It was just two good fighters meet­
ing each other and not an event of cosmic 
importance. Muhammed Ali and Joe 
Frazier are not the same as they were in 
1971. The three years since have seen each 
fighter, who both once seemed invincible, 
lose to men they were heavily favored to 
beat. The years are very seldom kind to 
anyone but they are even more deceitful 
towards atheletes. And boxers, the most 
alone and vain atheletes, are usually the 
last to know when their skills have been 
stolen by the clock.
Both men are wealthy and have nothing 
left to gain from boxing. The winner will 
surely get a shot at current heavyweight 
champion George Foreman. Foreman 
annihilated Frazier, knocking him down six 
times in less then two rounds. Ali, two 
years older than Frazier, has split two de­
cisions with Ken Norton, a nondescript 
fighter whom the younger Ali would have 
destroyed. So both men seemingly would 
have little chance against Foreman, who at 
23 hasn’t yet reached his peak. Yet they 
keep on fighting, not willing to believe 
their atheletic skills have been eroded by 
the flow of time.
To understand the reasons for this fight,
besides money, you have to return to the 
“fight of the century.” Ali has always 
wanted to avenge this loss. He had thought 
there was no way he could lose to a man he 
branded ignorant and dumb. Ali pro­
claimed he won the fight and though he 
did inflict serious damage on Frazier, 
Smokin’ Joe was dearly the winner* But 
Frazier wasn’t near as popular a champion 
as was Ali. The unkindest cut was Ali’s 
branding Frazier as Uncle Tom. Ali, even 
though he lost, was still the 
champ in the eyes of the people. A re­
match was clearly needed but because of 
squabbling over money it never came 
about. Frazier lost his title to Foreman, 
costing both he and Ali millions of dollars. 
Frazier can probably never regain his title 
but he would relish a victory over Ali al­
most as much.
As for Ali, the fight isn’t a crusade. He 
has fought a more important battle in the 
past, against his draftboard, and won. Box­
ing has lost some of its importance to Ali. 
He would love to defeat Frazier, regain the 
title from Foreman, and retire. But because 
boxing no longer is a crusade for Muham­
med Ali, this won’t come to be. Ali has 
learned that sport isn’t life but only a part 
of it. He has had to pay dearly for this 
knowledge. He knows his days are num­
bered and he, much like any other boxer, is 
only trying to delay the final bell.
Wrestling Highlights 
CMU vs. Hiram
Photos by Bruce Edelston
CMUat W&J
Score: 56 to 56
Tuesday, January 22, 1974
400 Med. R.CMU - McNerny, Uber, Matysek, Crist4:38.8
W&J - Thomas, McCaffrey, Bicker, D. BartoloNT
1000 Fr.W&JJL Loynd12:59.1100 Fr. W&JMunger52.8
CMUCropcho13:45.8CMUClimer55.5
CMUDuncan13:52.0CMUGlassman57.7
W&JChappel15:39.6W&JMcCaffrey1:04.6
-------------CMUKilburg1:17.8
200 Fr.W&JSimpson2:03.1
CMUGlassman2:08.0200 BK. CMUDittman2:24.6
CMUWillmot2:11.4W&JSimpson2:29.5
W&JThomas2:28.0CMUMcNerny2:33.1
W&JRooney2:42.3
50 Fr.W&JMunger22.4W&JThomas2:48.7
CMUDittman24.0CMUPresent3:04.3
CMUClime r
W&JWiszotsky
ZH-.J
26.0500 Fr. CMUGregg5:40.3
CMUKilburg34.3W&JLloynd5:55.9
CMUDuncan6r40.3
200 l.M.CMUGregg2:21.9CMUCropcho6:48.9
CMUMatysek2:26.7W&JBecker7:18.5W&TPriphpVY OU
W&J
X 1 lv Uv
Rooney
z. z / .y
2:29.6200 BR. CMUMatysek2:35.7
CMUPresent2:49.1CMUUber2:43.3
CMUCrist2:47.5
Req. Dive W&JArnett158.45W&JMcCaffrey3:06.6
W&JWisotzky151.45W&JChappel3:09.1
CMUDykeW&JPriebeD.Q.
CMUTurcotte
Opt. Dive W&JWisotzky228.20
200 FlyW&JPriebe2:43.3W&JArnett197.25
CMUNewman3:47.5CMUDyke139.15
CMUWillmotD.Q.
W&JBeckerD.Q.-
400 Fr. RelayW&JLloynd, Rooney, Simpson, Mug Munger3:32.4
CMUClimer, Gregg, Dittman, Glassman3.36.1

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974-Page 15
Tartans Win Over 
W&J False Alarm
It seemed that the victory last week 
over W&J would or should have started 
the team on a winning track. In the game 
following that win, C-MU played one of 
the better small college basketball teams in 
Pennsylvania, St. Vincents, and almost 
pulled off a big upset. But almost was four 
points short and they lost a tough game, 
71-67.
With two straight well-played games be­
hind them, it seemed that Thiel and Allegh­
eny would not pose too many problems for 
the Tartans. That would have been if the 
Tartans had played the same caliber of 
basketball as witnessed in those previous 
two games. They lost both games over the 
weekend to Thiel, 51-42, and Allegheny, 
79-66. Neither game was as close as the 
score indicated.
Those fans that attended the St. Vin­
cent’s game could not complain of the way 
the Tartans played. For the first ten min­
utes they played excellent basketball and 
took a 20-7 lead. C-MU could not maintain 
that lead and St. Vincents went ahead with 
about four minutes left in the first half. 
The Tartans regained that lead for only a 
short time in the second half but were 
always within five points of St. Vincents. 
When the Tartans began to press, they 
forced several turnovers and cut the lead to 
two points with less than 20 seconds left in 
the game. The last shot to tie the game 
failed, however, and St. Vincent emerged 
with the victory.
At Thiel, the Tartans managed just 17 
points in the first half in one of their worst 
showings of the year. Luckily, Thiel also
Paul Hamerly drags down a rebound, while 
Dan Jason (42) looks on.
did not have one of their better games. 
With four minutes left in the game, the 
Tartans cut the Tomcat lead to five points 
but could not come any closer to a victory.
In the game against Allegheny, C-MU 
stayed close until about 12 minutes left in 
the game when the score was 49-48. The 
Gators proceeded to score 13 unanswered 
points and the game was decided.
One can only hope that the Tartans will 
break out of their long slump soon and put 
everything together. If this ever happens, 
the other teams in the President’s Athletic 
Conference had better beware.
Greg Chambers hustles to the basket.Photos by Courtney Larson
THINK
If you're good enough, 
you can be a Navy Nuclear 
Officer
Aboard every Navy nuclear-powered 
ship, there are officers from colleges 
just like this one. The point is that to be 
considered for this extraordinary program, 
you don't have to go to the Naval Academy 
... or join the NROTC. What the Navy needs 
now are some very special college students/ 
graduates who aren't afraid to find out 
how good they really are. Who will 
consider our extensive and demanding 
training program (designed by the Atomic 
Energy Commission), the most exciting 
challenge of their lives. A challenge that 
offers an ambitious college student/ 
graduate an exciting future as a Naval 
Officer, with his first assignment being a 
nuclear-powered surface ship or a 
submarine.
Talk it over with your local recruiter.
Call him at 644-5897, or call 800-841-8000 
toll free anytime. Or send in the attached 
coupon.
Be a success in The New Navy
SEND TO:
Lt. Ed Johnson 
Navy Recruiting District 
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222
Gentlemen:
I am interested. Please forward more information on 
Nuclear Propulsion Officer requirements.
Name_____________
Address___________
City______________
Current College Year
Age
StateZip

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 29, 1974
activities board presents»
THE
CREATIVE
WORLD
OF
STAN KENTON
HIS ORCHESTRA
Thursday January 31 at 8-'30 ^in the Skibo Ballroom
$2.(X) at the door
ESIGN TARTAN GRAPHICS
