OfTHE(AmdlE-TEiHni(AL-S([1®LSM
VOLUME VDECEMBER 7, 1910NUMBER 12
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
3K............................................................... ~ fé
Most nice affairs whether 
it be a Ball or Dinner are 
held at The Rittenhouse, 
where every appointment is perfect,
«
*5«3R5Ä3K8 «5« »» «
5i Boys This is the Headquarters for «
iii HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX AND iii
ffl “SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES” m
5» See Our Suit & Overcoat Special for $20 & $25 5^
Ot H. A. FRIEDBERG W
m 439 Smithfield Street, - - Pittsburgh, Pa. 0
Open Evenings \\\
5tt2*SSi~SS2Si2X2XSS<S5<2S5~5S5S$~Si2552K~tf~552S5
0 JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, $5i ^Craig and Forbes St.,
5 Beginners’ Class Tuesday and Saturday.
)» Advanced, Wednesday and Friday.
* PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY.
5iC^O^KOSS50S5iCeS50S5iC>S5tCiS^Ce5iOS5iCS5iO~
X§&*X*&9#*96*9W4&*X*9M*mM#*9H&*X#X4
1
EVERY TECHNICAL MAN
will find the following papers of interest and 
value in his work.
They will keep you posted on the latest de­
velopments in your chosen profession. They 
will tell you what the leading engineers in your 
line are doing. They will also keep you in­
formed of the openings in your profession— 
of opportunities for advancement throughout 
the field.
ELECTRICAL WORLD—Weekly—$3.00 a Year.
The foremost electrical journal of the 
world. Covers the entire electrical art and 
industry.
ENGINEERING RECORD—Weekly—$3 a Year.
Devoted to civil engineering and allied sub­
jects. Covers municipal engineering, indus­
trial engineering, railway, civil engineering, 
bridge anu structural engineering, power 
plants, public works, etc.
ELECTRICAL RAILWAY JOURNAL—Weekly 
—$3.00 a Year.
The accepted authority in all branches of 
electric railway engineering.
Write for Special Student Rates & Sample Copies 
McGRAW PUBLISHING COMPANY 
239 West 39th Street - - - New York
***
**
******
**?**
********
*********************?*
Boys’: You’ll do well to come in and look 
at our Suits, Overcoats or Furnishings when 
in need. We’ll give you a square deal.
COHN’S
PENN AND COLLINS EAST END
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or ’J)
* gold, any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, *
* Craig and Forbes. *A efs4» Special offer—only a few fobs left at 25 ,p
* rent s. SCHENLEY LUNCH. £
1 w* *8* 4® *1* *1* ®X* *!•+
**********
See us for your Class, School, Club and Fra­
ternity Pins 
HEEREN BROS. & CO.
Penn Avenue and Eighth Street
We make and sell the Official “Tech” Pins
X3c ©-U. 2Z33.0-Wthat we print more books than any firmin the East End ?.......................................IDo "Z"©13. 2^33.0-Wthat our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf­lets elicit the admiration oflovers of FinePrinting ?.................................... . . . .
IDo Tou nSna-OTKTthat we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and at­tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to . 
SP^-HE 3c. 14ITSCHEB,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
s.1 t1 h1 McCorkle, Mgr , Tartan, is our representative at “Tech.”
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
8 a ?$ s I ? s0 *o
0\03^*0X03fi0XOXO*0X0\0*0\0%0X0X$%$XOX 
*
0I0*0*808
OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET >
BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY^ CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE $ AND CANNED GOODS <
3714 FORBES STREET SBell Phone 710 Schenley
v <*i ******
Quality the Best
Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room 
Corner Craig and Forbes Streets 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS
Prices Moderate * * * *
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ
O Are now iu their new building, 535 Wood S treet 
0 Stationery, Engraving, Artists’ Materials
O Draughtmen’s and Engineers’ Supplies

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. VIlie tartan
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1910.No. 12
BOARD OF CONTROL HOLDS IMPORTANT MEETING
Two Managers and Four Assistants are Elected to Take Charge of ’Varsity Teams.
The 1909-10 Board of Control of the Athletic As­
sociation held its last meeting Wednesday evening, 
November 30. The meeting was called to order by 
President Keally. After the roll-call the Board settled 
down to business and matters were conducted quick­
ly and efficiently.
Manager D. M. Scott, of the 1910 football team, 
read his report for the past season. The report 
(which appeared in last week’s Tartan) was not ac­
cepted as final by the Board, owing to Mr. Scott’s 
inability at this early date to give complete and 
definite information regarding one or two of the items 
therein. Manager Scott will present his completed 
report for audit shortly after the first of the year. 
Little change is anticipated in the report as it now 
stands.
The elections of football manager, hockey man­
ager, and first assistant-managers for football, base­
ball, track, basketball, and hockey were next held. 
The ballotting resulted in the election of the follow­
ing men:
Football Manager—James K. Lamoree, ’12.
Hockey Manager—James H. Knapp, ’12.
First Assistant-Managers—
Football—William Finkel, ’13.
Baseball—C. C. Hixenbaugh, ’12.
Track—Thor A. Engstrom, ’13.
Basketball—George S. Blair, ’13.
Hockey—R. M. Scott, ’14.
The next business which came before the Board 
was the granting of letters to those men who had 
earned them on the 1910 football team and the 1910 
track team. Manager Scott presented the following
list, approved by Coach Dowling, of men who were 
eligible for insignia by reason of games played on 
the football team: Hatcher, ’11, McCorkle, ’11,
Weaver, ’11, Gilkison, ’11, Blanchard, ’12, Schmucker, 
’12, Taylor, ’13, Kesselman, ’13, Blair, ’13, Engstrom, 
’13, Moorhead, ’13, Newbrand, 2d Year Night, Lloyd, 
2d Year Night, Dyer, ’14, Roessner, ’14, Hull, ’14,
D. M. Scott, ’12, manager.
The Carnegie “C” was awarded to the above men.
Manager McCorkle of the track team then pre­
sented the list of men on last year’s track team who 
were eligible for letters. The Board awarded the “C” 
to the men whose names were read; Ehrenfeld, ’10; 
Gilkison, ’11; Wait, ’13; F. Crawford,’12; Decker, ’12, 
C. R. Crawford, ’13; Sutherin, ’13; Morris, ’13; Roe, 
2nd Year A. I.
After all of the important business had been dis­
posed of the Board spent a genial half hour in dis­
cussing the new Board, which steps into office this 
month, prospects for the coming year and a brief sur­
vey of the past year. The meeting was then ad­
journed.
The first meeting of the new Board of Control will 
take place this evening at 8 o’clock. The meeting 
will be held in Room 51 of the Applied Science Build­
ing. Every member should be present.
At Harvard, Yale, Brown and other colleges much 
interest has been aroused in aviation by the fad of 
a miniature flying machine, “The “Hi-Flyer.” The 
Aero Clubs are using them in the study of air cur­
rents.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
CROSS COUNTRY RUN.
Last Saturday morning Carnegie Tech held its 
first Inter-school Cross Country Run. The weather 
was cold and snappy and would have been ideal but 
for the foot or so of snow which covered the ground. 
Sixteen men from the different schools competed. 
The School of Applied Design carried off both team 
and individual honors, the race being won by D. W. 
Wait of that school.
This race was held as a preliminary to the Pitts­
burgh Athletic Association’s Second Annual Race 
scheduled for Saturday, December 17. The first five 
men in the Inter-school Run have been chosen to 
represent Carnegie in the P. A. A. run; and judging 
from the splendid showing made Saturday our men, 
after two weeks more of careful practice and train­
ing will be in prime shape to give good account of 
themselves. The men thus chosen are: Wait, Des.; 
McCrony, Des.; Beeken, Sc.; McCorkle, Sc.; and 
Kirchenbawer, Des.
The time for race was very good considering the 
weather conditions, and all the men are to be con­
gratulated for the effort they made. Every one of 
the sixteen men who entered the race finished in 
good shape.
Wait of the School of Applied Design, deserves 
special mention, as he led the field from the very 
start, over the whole three miles and more to the 
tape. He finished a minute and a half before his 
nearest competitor, little worn by his effort. Wait is 
captain of the Track Team for 1911. Tech is indeed 
fortunate to command the services of a man of such 
stamina and endurance as was shown by the winner 
of last Saturday’s run.
The following men were entered from their re­
spective schoolsand finished in theordernamed:
NameSchoolTime
Captain WaitDesign17m 30 s
McCronyDesign19m 10 s
BeekenScience19m 25 s
McCorkleScience20m 00 s
KirchenbawerDesign20m 40 s
LaffertyIndustries20m 41 s
MartzDesign20m 47 s
VaughnIndustries21m 00 s
FishIndustries21m 02 s
MoodyDesign22m 10 s
KinsleyDesign22m 15 &
SeigelScience22m 45 s
LoveScience22m 47 s
GriffinIndustries22m 53 s
GammonIndustries23m 10 s
MestaIndustries25m 57 s
in spite of the handicap of smaller numbers, the 
Sophomores of Syracuse almost invariably win the 
annual salt rush and it is proposed to inaugurate 
a contest that will more evenly match the two 
classes.
Captain Jimmy Taylor
FOOTBALL CAPTAIN ELECTED 
Jimmy Taylor Chosen to Lead the Plaid Warriors 
Next Year.
The election of football captain for the season 
of 1911 was called by Manager D. M. Scott Thursday 
evening. Men who have won their letters this year 
were eligible to cast a ballot. By an almost unani­
mous vote S. J. Taylor, ’13, was elected to the posi­
tion. The selection of Taylor to pilot the team is 
a wise one. Jimmy’s playing throughout the year 
has been consistently good. He has shown good 
head-work, plenty of grit and courage, and gives 
every promise of further development. Taylor is an 
old Pittsburgh High School player. He has been 
on the Tech squad two years and is improving every 
season. His many friends will rejoice to hear of his 
elevation to the captaincy.
NOTED SCULPTOR ADDRESSES STUDENTS.
Mr. George G. Barnard, creator of famous Capitol 
sculptures, visits Tech.
Mr. George G. Barnard, the Pennsylvania sculptor, 
who is the author of two monumental allegorical 
groups recently completed for the Pennsylvania State 
Capital at Harrisburg, paid a visit to the Schools on 
November 30th and made an informal address to the 
students of the School of Design in the assembly 
room. Mr. Barnard is a young man of the most in­
teresting personality in addition to being an artist 
of international note. His talk was so full of en-

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
thusiasm for his work and of interst in the progress 
of the arts in general that it awakened the liveliest 
interest in the students. He spoke of his own 
struggles as a student, of his early attempts at sculp­
ture without instruction, without the surroundings 
usually possessed by students of art, and without any 
inspiration other than those which, after all, are the 
greatest of all,—the inspiration of inborn talent for 
artistic production and of insatiable desire to pro­
duce; and that in the great natural world surround­
ing him. He commented on the priceless advantages 
within the reach of our students as compared with 
his own entire lack of advantages as a student, and 
said he thought students in a school like this, who 
have been so well provided for, could hardly appreci­
ate fully the value of the opportunities placed be­
fore them. He then described in a general way the 
origin of his conception of the groups now in place 
at the State Capitol and the processes by which his 
conception was realized.
After his address at the Schools Mr. Barnard was 
entertained at the Duquesne Club at lunch. The Di­
rector, some of the Trustees of the Institute and 
members of the faculty of the School of Design were 
present. Here again Mr. Barnard talked most enter­
tainingly of his work and studies and of his experi­
ences as a collector of sculptural relics, especialy of 
the Gothic style.
He expressed the liveliest interest in the Technical 
Schools, not only in th School of Design, but in all 
departments, and assured the faculty and students 
that he should lose no opportunity to revisit them 
and to assist them in any possible way.
MUSICAL CLUBS FIRST CONCERT.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs gave a concert be­
fore the Pittsburg Country Club last Saturday even­
ing. The event was the annual banquet of the Coun­
try Club and the appointments of the affair were of 
the finest. Both of the musical clubs presented a 
repertoire of selections. Encore after encore was 
accorded the players and singers. During the even­
ing the club picture was taken. This picture will be 
used for advertising purposes and will probably be 
available ail during the season. Both the Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs are in flourishing condition and a 
very successful year is assured.
BASKET BALL.
Manager Blanchard has issued the first call for 
varsity Basket Ball men, and if money enough is 
forthcoming to run the team, Carnegie Tech will 
once more be represented by a good five. There 
are quite a number of former prep school players 
of no mean ability about school, men who are just 
aching to get at the game again. With such coaches 
as Dr. Schaeffer and Mr. Lightner, assisted by Mr. 
McCulloch and Dr. Flint, of Penn, Tech should pro­
duce a team of sterling worth.
AN INTERESTING COMPARISON.
The following list of football casualties for the 
past three years compiled and presented by New 
York Times, is of interest. The decrease in the 
number of deaths and injuries this year is a strong 
argument in favor of tiie revised football code.
Deaths
191019091908
High-school players ............................ . 564
College Players .................................. . 5106
Other Players ...................................... . 473
———
Total ............................................... . .142313
191019091908
Badly Injured
College players .................................. . 173364
High-school players <........................ . 122151
Grade schools .................................... . 100
Athletic clubs ..................................... 10516
All others ..............................................053
Total ............................................... . 4064134
191019091908
Causes of Death
Body blows .......................................... . 153
Injuries to spine .................................. . 133
Concussion of brain............................ . 753
Blood poisoning .................................. . 221
Other causes ...................................... . 383
———
Total ............................................... . .142313
HARE AND HOUND CHASE.
Next Saturday morning, December 10th, Director 
McCulloch will supervise a Hare and Hound Chase, 
beginning at • the Field House, and. continuing 
through the Schenley Park district. This chase is 
not an inter-school affair, but is open to any man in 
Carnegie Tech who wishes to run.
In such a race, the fellows will be divided into 
two squads, one to act as hares and the other as 
hounds. The hares will be given a start of so many 
minutes and will be provided with confetti or a sim­
ilar substance with which to leave a trail. The 
hounds will then be “let loose” and they will follow 
the indicated trail, taking any short cuts which they 
may choose, until they catch the hares.
Such a chase besides being beneficial to the track 
men and men interested in running, is very pleasant 
sport, and it is hoped that a big crowd will turn out.
A student in the University of Michigan has just 
made the rounds of the different places where 
cigars, tobacco and cigarettes are sold, and has found 
out that students at the university last year smoked 
132,210 cigars, 33,180 boxes of cigarettes, 52,000 pack­
ages of smoking tobacco, including 30,000 packages of 
cigarette tobacco; 7,000 packages of cigarette papers 
and 6,850 cubes of chewing tobacco.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
1911 FOOTBALL CAPTAINS.APPLIED SCIENCE NIGHT.
Carnegie Tech
Westminister
Pitt
Grove City 
W. & J.
Taylor
Mansel
Lindsay
Acher
Tibbins
Half
(re-elected)
End
End-Center
Full-Half
Football may be abolished at Tufts College owing 
to inadequate financial support by the alumni. For 
the past three years the game has been a losing 
venture.
TRACK MANAGER’S REPORT—SEASON 1910.
Entree fees, Fort Pitt Indoor Meet.................................$ 4 25
Entree fees, P. A. A. Indoor Meet.................. 6 50
Entree fees, W. & J. Intercollegiate Meet. ... 6 50
Cost of West Virginia Trip.................................... 99 25
Manager’s Expenses.............................................. 4 35
Equipment ................................................................. 27 75
Total Expense...............................$148 60
Guarantee from West Virginia Trip............... 82 40
Net Cost of Track Season to Association..........$ 66 20
R. W. Light, Manager.
PLEBE BASKET BALL.
Last Friday night, the Plebe Basket Ball Team 
made its first appearance, playing the Avalon High 
School team at Avalon. During the first half, the 
Plebes had everything their own way leading at the 
end of that period with a scOre of 15-9. During the 
second half, the better team work of Avalon coupled 
with some questionable decisions on the part of the 
referee gave Avalon the game.
Quinlin was easily the star of the evening and his 
removal in the second period owing to a slight argu­
ment with one of his opponents and the referee 
aided the Avalon fellows a great deal in winning the 
game. The game ended with Avalon H. S. four points 
ahead, the final score being 29-25.
As a preliminary to the big event, the Sophomore 
Class of Allegheny High School defeated the Sopho­
mores of Avalon, 18-17. Line-up:
C. T. S. Plebes
Forward 
Forward 
Center 
Guard 
Guard
Field goals Quinlin 4, Pate 3, Douthett 3, McKnignt
5, Gustard 3, Bole 4.
Foul goals: Quinlin 4, Daugherty 1, Gustard 2, 
Bole 2.
Quinlin-Daugherty
Douthett
Pate
Wilmot
Acheson
Avalon H. S. 
McKnight 
Gustard 
Bole 
Young 
Davidson
First Year.
The committee acting for the First Year Class Ap­
plied Science Night, met on Wednesday, November 
23, and decided upon Saturday, December 10, as the 
date for the first smoker to be held by the class.
The smoker will take place in the lecture room on 
the first floor of the Applied Industries building.
It is important that every member of the class be 
there. The committee is making very careful prep­
aration and a good time is assured. President Jones 
will probably call a short class-meeting immediately 
after the smoker for the purpose of arousing inter­
est in class athletics. Show your spirit by turning 
out and helping a good thing along.
The First Year Night Class of the School of Ap­
plied Science met recently and appointed the follow­
ing men as a committee to boom athletics among 
the students: R. F. McKee, chairman; Schutte, Sny­
der, Steel, Williamson, Shaw. The sentiment is 
strong among the fellows in favor of class athletics 
and a basket ball team of real ability will soon be 
in the field for the First Year Night. The meeting 
was well attended and the spirit shown was good.
<
Mr. Schutte was elected representative to the 
Board of Control by the First Year Night men.
CARNEGIE MECHANICAL SOCIETY.
The Carnegie Mechanical Society held its monthly 
meeting last Saturday evening. Mr. Holiday of the 
Union Switch and Signal Co., gave a lecture on Rail­
road Signalling. The all-electric and electro-pneu- 
matic systems of signalling were discussed, good 
use being made of lantern slides to illustrate the 
different kinds of apparatus used in these systems. 
After the lecture, while everyone was doing justice 
to the refreshments and between bites, pulling away 
at the long clay pipes furnished by the society at 
each meeting, Mr. Smith, a former president of the 
society and president of the Alumni Association 
gave an informal account of his trip to New York 
when he delivered to Andrew Carnegie the silver 
tray presented by the students of these schools. 
His talk was interesting throughout and it gave one 
a real insight into the personality of our founcfer.
Mr. Walton, another former president of the so­
ciety, was present at the meeting ,as were aiso a 
number of visitors who were interested in the lec­
ture.
Over $50,000 was earned by Columbia students 
last summer.
The Chinese students of the University of Penn­
sylvania recently gave a play written and acted by 
themselves. The play was entitled, “When East and 
West Meet.”

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
SCHOOL OF APPLIED DESIGN.
The result of the judgement of the first Class 
“A” Plan Project of this scholastic year and the 
Class “B” Esquisse-Esquisse, which was held by 
the Society of Beaux Arts of New York was received 
at this department the past week. The rewards 
received by students of this school were as follows: 
Mr. D. Allison, a second medal. Messrs Wm. Geh- 
ron, A. H. Gilkison, C. D. Hasness, P. S. Mewhinney, 
W. F. Burkhart, P. S. Sterling and T. J. Raguere 
each received a mention in the plan project while 
R. R. Rose received a first mention and E. W. Boyer 
and John England, Jr., a mention for the Esquisse- 
Esquisse. The subject of the plan project was “A 
Country Inn” and that of the Esquisse-Esquisse, “A 
State Sanatorium.”
The subject of the current problem for the ele­
mentary class in illustration is a design for a Book 
Cover Plate. That of Class “B” project is “The Night 
Before Christmas.”
The present Class “B” project in the Interior Dec­
orating Department is a “Byzantine Episcopal 
Throne.”
The prize awarded for the selection of the five 
best compositions of the American Illustrators Ex­
hibit which was held in the Carnegie Institute No­
vember the fifth to twenty-third was won by Miss 
Kathrene S. Kennedy. The selection was as follows: 
1st, No. 29, F. Brangwyne...“Wreck of the Venger” 
2nd, No. 6, AV. J. Aylward. .“Wharf at Buenos Ayres”
3rd, No. 23, E. Blumenschein.................“Love of Life”
4th, No. 136, F. W. Taylor................“Shepherd’ s Day”
5th, No. 90, F. B. Masters............“Midsummer Night”
The prize given for the selection was a number of 
Remington’s paintings.
The drawings for the design of a Cover Plate for 
the Catalogue of “An Art Museum” are on exhibit in 
the Illustrating Room.
The result of the freehand judgment is posted on 
the bulletin board. The students are to be compli­
mented upon the work they are handing in at these 
judgments.
One of the first and most successful Esquisse in 
Modeling was recently judged by the faculty. The 
program called for a mirror frame to be designed 
in the Renaissance style. The nine designs submitt­
ed were criticized before the stiudents, Monday, by 
Mr. Hornbostel. Each design was taken in turn and 
criticized its good points and defects pointed out. 
Then the author of each design was called upon for 
a talk in which they explained their methods of work 
and the spirit of the design. Miss Eleanor Tener, 
Miss Murna Dunkle and Miss Louise Miller were 
awarded 1st mention. Casts of the designs will be 
made and used as documents.
Students and Faculty of the University of Utah are 
considering the practicability of instituting student 
control of that institution.
SOCCER FOOTBALL.
Besides the regular basket-ball and gymnasium 
work, Director McCulloch expects to start a few in­
ovations in the line of athletics. Soccer football 
will be one of them. This is a game which has been 
little developed in college athletics in this part of 
the country, although it is quite well known in most 
of the eastern schools.
The game is governed by rules somewhat similar 
to hockey. It is Mr. McCulloch’s idea to play the 
game here and get the fellows interested so that a 
series of games can be arranged between the 
schools. More definite announcement will be made 
later.
SIGMA TAU ENTERTAINS TEAM.
Sigma Tau Fraternity entertained the 1910 foot- 
oall team at dinner, Thursday, December, at 6.00 
p. m. The affair is an annual one, which is given 
by the fraternity in honor of the team. After dinner 
speeches and toasts were indulged in by those pres­
ent. Dr. Watson L. Savage, supervisor of athletics 
and Mr. McCulloch, physical director, were the honor 
guests of the evening. Both gave interesting talks 
to the assembled men. During the evening, the cap­
tain of the 1911 team was elected by the players in 
secret session. The guests were entertained during 
the evening by singing and playing. Stories were 
told and experiences swapped. The party broke up 
at a late hour.
APPLIED INDUSTRIES.
The interest manifested by the students in the 
different clubs in the School of Applied Industries 
has not been what it should be. Several of the clubs 
which are now running hold regular meetings but 
on the whole, a lack of interest is apparent. This 
should not be. The School is big enough and strong 
enough to support a social club for every trade 
which is taught. The Mechanics Club, the Draughts­
men’s Club, the Sign Painters’ Society, etc., should 
be regular organizations conducted in a manner 
which would hold the interest of the men. There 
is no reason why the School of Applied Industries 
should not be represented by a number of live, flour­
ishing clubs which would not only benefit the School 
but would be a source of pleasure and recreation for 
the students.
A movement is on foot in a number of colleges 
throughout the country to establish a national dra- 
maic fraternity. The Thespian Dramatic Club rep­
resents the University of Kansas in this movement. 
The dramatic club at the University of Nebraska 
was the first to suggest the project and they have 
affiliated, besides the Thespians, dramatic clubs at 
the Universities of Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin, Cor­
nell University, and a number of eastern schools.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
TH B TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts­
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, ’12.............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, ’12.............Associate Editor
David Henderson, ’12..............Associate Editor
John H. Clements, ’13...................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Bagliij, ’11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor
Florence A. Flinn, ’11, M.M.C.S., Assis’t Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13............................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, ’11....................Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh, ’12____Advertising Manager-
Subscription Rates
Yearly ....................................................................$2.00
Single Copy.....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly ....................................................................$1.00
Single Copy........................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Ratés, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
BOARD OF EDITORS.
We are pleased to annouce two new additions to 
the Editorial Board of the Tartan. David Henderson, 
‘12, takes his place as Associate Editor; C. B. Kline, 
‘13, will be connected with the paper in the capacity 
of Assistant Editor. We regret to announce the 
resignation of H.‘ P. Smith, ‘13, as Assistant Editor.
CO-OPERATION.
Co-operation is the keynote of success in any line 
of endeavor. The business which is built up upon 
the fundamental principal of mutual help is bound to 
succeed. In no case is this so important as in the 
control and management of th.e affairs of a live 
college. Have you ever thought the matter over?
There are several executive officers whose duties 
bring them in contact with the students. These men 
are confronted daily by big questions calling for ex­
ecutive and judicial deliberation. Meeting and dis­
cussing business with the students is a necessary 
part ol their work, but it is by no means the whole 
of their troubles. The Director, the Secretary, the 
Registrar and the Deans have established office 
hours, set aside especially for the purpose of look­
ing after the students part of the affairs of the 
Schools. It is the duty of the students to observe 
these hours. Do not go rushing into Mr. Tarbell’s 
office or Mr. Field’s office every minute of the day 
and expect to be given strict attention. It is impos­
sible to conduct the affairs of the Schools without
observing the mandates of that king of business life, 
System. If you do not observe the hours set aside 
for you, you are helping to complicate the machin­
ery. If you take care in the time you select to make 
your calls, you will not only facilitate the work of 
the men with whom you are doing business, but you 
will obtain closer attention, quicker service and 
better results all through. Cut out the following 
list of office hours and paste it on your desk where 
you can refer to it whenever you find it necessary. 
Then make up your mind to co-operate by observing 
the said hours.
Director Hamerschlag—
Daily 9 a. m. to 12 noon.
Secretary Field—
Student Activities, daily 11 a. m. to 12.30 p. m. 
Monday, Thursday and Friday evenings 7.30 to
10.00 p. m.
Student Afd Bureau, daily 4 p. m. to 5 p. m. Mon­
day, Thursday and Friday evenings 7.30 p. 
m. to 10.00 p. m.
Mr. Tarbell—
Student interviews, daily except Saturday 9 a. m. 
to 5 p. m. Saturday 9 a. m. to 1 p. m. Mon­
day, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday even­
ings 7 p. m. to 9 p. m.
Dean Leete—
Daily except Saturday, 11.30 a. m. to 12.30 p. m.
1.30 p. m. to 2.30 p .m. Monday and Thurs­
day evenings, 7.30 p. m. to 9.00 p. m.
Dean Connelly—
Daily 12 a. m. to 1.00 p. m. Evenings 7 p. m. to
7.30 p. m., 9.30 p. m. to 10.00 p. m.
The fact that the above hours are set aside for 
students does not imply that a student can not ob­
tain audience at any other time if his case warrants 
it. The hours are placed merely as a convenience 
and the men should do their part in the matter.
A CORRECTION.
In the article in last week’s Tartan concerning the 
students’ gift to Mr. Carnegie, the line “every man 
in the Schools contributed something ” was used. 
Our attention has been drawn to the fact that the 
“dear girls” have not been given credit for their 
share of the offering. We take this opportunity to 
correct ourselves. The students in the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School contributed willingly and 
generously to the fund. We feel sorry that they 
were not given full credit in the first place. This is 
our apology.
Announcement has just been made of the gift of 
$200,000 which has been made by an alumnus to the 
University of Pittsburg for the purpose of building 
a new stadium and athletic field. Congratulations, 
Pitt !

---------------------------------------------------

2TH 2EA2ER
TWO LETTERS.
[The letters published below have been sent to us 
for publication by Mr. George H. Smith, President 
of the Alumni Association. Mr. Carnegie’s letter to 
Mr. Smith is a fine acknowledgment of the gift sent 
to our founder by the students of Carnegie Tech. 
Both letters are self-explanatory.—Ed.j
Pittsburgh, Pa., Dec. 5, 1910 
To the Under-Graduates, Graduates, 
and Faculty of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools: —
Having fulfilled the mission entrusted to me, that 
of delivering the Silver Tray into the hands of our 
benefactor, Mr. Andrew Carnegie, I believe a few 
words concerning my trip are in order.
Never have I seen a man apparently so deeply 
moved as wras Mr. Carnegie when shown how his 
students and faculty, each one contributing their 
mite, had remembered him on his birthday. His 
eyes fairly danced with pleasure and the letter be­
low, which I received upon my return, testifies to 
the delight with which he received the tray.
It was a trip I will never forget and I wish to ex­
press my gratitude for being given the privilege and 
honor of so intimately meeting our beloved Founder.
Sincerely yours.
George H. Smith.
New York, Nov. 28, 1910.
George H. Smith, Esq.,
Lucy Furnaces,
Fittsburg, Pa.
Dear Mr. Smith,—
I wish to put in writing, as far as this is possible 
t© express the feelings with which I receivd the 
beautiful silver tray with which I was surprized on 
my birthday. Few gifts are surrounded with so many 
exquisite touches. Mrs. Carnegie and I and our 
dauter, look at it and go over the story of the young 
men and wromen of the Technical Schools, each sub­
scribing their mite, which ranks with the scriptural 
widow’s mite in potency with us.
I can only assure you and ask you to convey the 
assurance to each and all of the subscribers, that the 
gift will be handed down to our successors aud 
finally, we hope, be sacredly preserved with others 
of similar nature that future generations way knoAV 
something of the pleasures with which life in the 
Twentieth Century Mas surrounded.
Please giv many thanks to one and all.
Very truly yours,
[Signed] Andrew Carnegie.
The Freshman class of the University of Toronto 
has decided to vary a time-honored custom and will 
this year entertain the Sophomores at a magnifi­
cent Christmas dinner instead of an oyster supper, 
as in former years.
TECHNICAL MAN DEFENDED.
To the Editor of the Tartan:
In an editorial appearing in a previous issue of 
the Tartan the question was asked, “Are technical 
students ignorant?” The query referred to practical 
ethics and to anything outside of technical inter­
ests. A statement, from a quoted article, was 
made, that the technical student’s ideal is to see 
how much he can get out of life, not how much he 
can put into it; that great problems of humanity, 
political crises, or any call for self-sacrificing, dis­
interested men in the cause of society finds technical 
men hanging back. The attack closes with a defini­
tion of an ideal college education and its purpose, 
intimating that a technical college education seldom, 
if ever, fulfills this purpose.
As the attack is directed at technical students, 
there is little use in pointing out that the majority 
of men in other college-bred professions are, in this 
day of dollar-worship, all but forgetting society in 
the mad rush to help themselves. It would not be 
sensible to ask how many physicians are serving the 
poor when they could be pampering the rich for 
fabulous fees. It might also be unkind to inquire 
how many lawyers are in politics for the good of the 
nation, not as they judge themselves, but as they 
are. Let us then consider the charge itself.
The author, certainly not a technical man, main­
tains that technical students are “ignorant of the 
fundamental ideal of practical ethics” and are 
therefore “almost useless to society.” Unless only 
men of other college-bred professions are of use to 
humanity (disregarding men 'without college educa­
tions) then technical men are not ignorant of the 
principle that each man owes something to the world, 
something which he must pay or be a parasite. Are 
not technical men engaged in building canals, bridg­
ing rivers, laying railroads, stamping out disease by 
sanitation, detecting fraudulent food adulteration, 
gathering mineral treasures concealed in the earth 
and bringing from them the gold, and silver, and 
copper, and iron, and steel that make it' possible 
for humanity to exist in comfort and safety beyond 
the fondest dreams of our forefathers? Is not the 
technical man the intelligent being who goes to the 
ballet box with an intelligent ballot against money 
powers and rings and causes the political crises that 
are at last “constantly arising”? Is not the technical 
man now trying to step into the political arena and 
as a “man who places character above cash” in the 
words of the author of the attack, force the lawyer 
and the doctor to drop the whip of power which they 
have been holding over the heads of society?
When these questions are truthfully answered, the 
technical student and the technical graduate will no 
longer be called ignorant and useless to humanity, 
but the fact will be settled beyond dispute that a 
technical college education can and does produce 
men who become leaders in everything that is for the 
good of society. C. B. K.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
f3J3M3®SISiSMSi3ISrSMSM3M3i3MSJSi35I3MS]SM3M3M3JSJ
| M. M. C. S. |
SJSM3M3J3MSiS!SiSJ 3l3M3ISMSM3i3ISI3jSJ3JSEJSiS®3EMSJSJ
The M. M. C. S. had a treat last week which they 
fully appreciated and enjoyed. Dr. Brashear, be­
loved by old and young in Pittsburgh, spoke on the 
subject of “Sweetness and Light.” To illustrate his 
talk, he had some beautiful roses, lilies, and varie­
gated plants. Even though he studies the large 
things of the universe, such as the sun and stars, 
he impressed us with the great beauty of the small 
things of life and made us feel that the world is 
made better by each smile and kind word uttered.
The Seniors held a dance in the Faculty parlors 
last Thursday night from eight until twelve. It 
was a most enjoyable affair. The lower hall was 
decorated with the school pennants and large divans, 
chairs, and davenports were arranged in the most 
comfortable “twosing” corners. The two “Paul 
Jones” were the features of the evening. These were 
taken charge of by Dean Connelly who certainly 
has nothing to learn in the whistling art. Everyone 
declared the evening a success arid hope that it will 
not be the last.
The members of the faculty present were Dean 
Connelly, Mr. Field, Miss Stoner, Miss Bradt and 
Miss Ernst. ,
The Xmas play is progressing rapidly. The girls 
have been remarkably faithful at the practices and 
all feel assured that this year the play will reach a 
great height. New costumes have been planned as 
well as newT songs and dances so that those who saw 
it last year will be repaid if they come again.
In a lecture before the National League for the 
Civic Education of Women, Prof. Leslie J. Tomp­
kins, of New York University, made the statement 
that the college woman has not “made good.” It 
is clearly evident that Prof. Tompkins has never 
visited the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School.
The girls of Iowa State University have regular 
meetings for rooting parties. They have a cheer 
leader of their own.
A sanitary fountain has been presented to the 
University of Utah by the girls of the school. The 
girls raised the money by making and selling pen­
nants.
At the University of Washington the girls are also 
eligible to wear the ’Varsity “W” for excellence in 
various branches of athletics.
Nickel-in-the-slot telephones have been installed in 
the women’s dormitory of the University of Minne­
sota, because the co-eds used the five free machines 
too much.
eiEISJSMSlSMSMSMEMSMSJSiSMSJSJSEiSMSMSJSJSISMSMSl
| PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT j
je!jaMSM3s!iiHlcliSI3MSBEMai®JSM3ISMSMSM3iSMSI3i5i3JSE]
Captain Wait showed his ability to lead in the 
Cross Country last Saturday.
It is easy to confuse the public. Williams, the 
only free-thinker among the Junior Electricals has 
never been an enigma to us. However, ever since he 
has had his hair cut ala mode we are at a loss to 
place the height of his ambitions at Poetry, Art or 
mere Tonsorial Enlivenment.
Mr. Carnegie is consistent as well as kind. The 
simplified spelling used in his letter strikes a happy 
chord in the heart of the harried editor, at least.
The physical examinations now being undergone 
by the Plebes are interesting to say the least.Many 
are the sacred and novel rites which must be per­
formed by the aspiring student before his physical 
record is tabulated.
At the November meeting of the Yale Corporation 
an anonymous gift of $15,000, the income of which 
is to be used as an emergency loan fund for mem­
bers of the faculty, was announced.
The idea is a good one but think of the embarrass­
ment of going to the trustees of the fund with a re­
quest for a loan of a tenner until pay day and being 
met with the reply that all the money was in use.
The University Club has issued an invitation to 
the Glee and Mandolin Clubs to give a concert some­
time after Christmas. The invitation will in ail 
probability be accepted.
PHOTOGRAPH OF TRAY.
A framed photograph of the silver tray sent to 
Mr. Carnegie by the students can be seen in Mr. 
Field’s office during the rest of the week. The pic­
ture is a present to the students from Grogan & Co., 
silversmiths, makers of the tray and is a handsome 
reminder.
Foot-ball at Harvard, last year netted the Athletic 
Association a profit of $57,108. The only other 
sports that showed a profit during the fiscal year 
ending July 31, 1910, were base-ball and the lawn 
tennis courts. The total income from sports dur­
ing the year was $130,562, and the expenses $127,- 
945, leaving a balance of $2,616.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTÁN11
AN ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
When it became known that funds were being 
raised for the purpose of buying a birthday gift for 
the founder of the Schools, letters containing contri­
butions poured in from the Alumni. Most of these 
were sent to the Secretary of the Schools. Mr. Field 
wishes to acknowledge the receipt of all contribu­
tions. It would be an impossible task to send letters 
in reply to all those which have been written. Mr. 
Field states that credit has been given in every 
instance where money has been received and wishes 
to thank the alumni members for their hearty sup- 
poi’t and kind wishes.
CIVIL ENGINEERING SOCIETY MEETING.
“The Relations of Biology to Engineering” is“ the 
subject of the address which will be delivered be­
fore the Civil Engineering Society at its next rgular 
meeting to be held Saturday evening, December 10. 
Dr. Severance Burroge, Professor of Sanitary Science 
at Purdue University, is the lecturer of the occasion. 
Dr| Burroge is a man who, by long study and care­
ful research along his chosen line, is most capable of 
handling the subject in masterful style. The speaker 
will be introduced at 8 o’clock sharp and every mem­
ber of the C. E. S. should be out. A business meet­
ing will be conducted later in the evening.
W. H. Buente, Sec’y.
Under the roofs of C. T. S.
There are four mighty bands;
The architect, the greatest is he,
With large and dirty hands;
And loafing ’round the drawing board 
All day long he sta,nds.
His hair is long, and full of paste,
His face is black, not tan;
His brow is wet, but not with sweat,
He crooks whate’er he can,
He looks the world not in the face,
For he owes most every man.
Sneak in, sneak out, from morn till night, 
You see him come and go;
His face is dark with dreary thots 
Of studies that are low,
For which he is conditioned from 
His aim, the White Friar show.
And the “Maggies” coming home from school 
Pass by the open door;
They hate to see his winking eyes,
And hear his loud voice roar,
And strongly on the window raps,
And waits for ladies more.
He goes on Sunday to the school,
And works with other boys;
For Charette is a strenuous week,
With its sorrows and its joys;
For all day long they sing and scream,
And make a fearful noise.
Smoking, Loafing, Sleeping,
Onward thru school he goes;
Each morning sees some plan begun,
But the Dean sees not its close;
Something attempted, nothing done,
On the tables in many rows.
Thanks, thanks to you, my noble profs,
For attention in classes sought!
For in our work thru out our life 
Your labors will be forgot;
For the architect was never cut out 
For deep study and thot.
By J. B. Hays, ’12.
BU$INE$$ MANAGERS 50NG.
How dear to my heart 
1$ the ca$h of $ub$cription 
When the generou$ $ub$criber 
Pre$ent$ it to view.
But the one which won’t pay
I refrain from description 
For perhap$ gentle reader,
That one may be you!
—Univ. of Kentucky Idea.
INDOOR ATHLETIC MEET.
Physical Director McCulloch is now making prep­
arations to hold an inter-school athletic meet in 
the Field House after Christmas. A trophy will be 
given to the school scoring the greatest number of 
points. Fuller details, including a schedule of 
evens, will be published later.
The senior class at Illinois has initiated a move­
ment for the abolishment of final examinations in the 
second semester of senior year.
University of Missouri Freshmen are compelled by 
the second year men to carry suit cases for upper 
classmen and Sophomores as they arrive on the 
trains,

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE KIDDO 
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS . FOR THE PALL STYLES
NEWS FROM THE COLLEGES.
Fourteen men received their letters in football at 
Case this year.
The Sock and Buskin Dramatic Club of Lafayette 
has issued its first call for candidates for this year’s 
show, “The College Professional.” The production 
will be staged at a cost of $2,000.
The University of Cincinnati is now a member of 
the Ohio Conference.
New York University celebrated her seventy-ninth 
year by burning a $500,000 mortgage, leaving the 
school entirely free from debt.
As a punishment for flunking, the students at the 
University of Colorado must wear small blue caps, 
with green buttons.
Juniors at Leland Stanford University wear plug 
hats.
The women of the University of Minnesota have 
started a campaign to secure the right of voting in 
the Athletic Association elections.
Michigan has offered a prize of $100 for a new foot­
ball song.
Columbia now ranks first among American col­
leges in enrollment. The total registration is 7058, 
an increase of 456 over that of last year.
Harvard’s foot-ball profits were $57,308 last sea­
son. The only other sports showing a profit were 
baseball and lawn tennis.
The faculty of the University of Michigan is con­
sidering the matter of giving credit for work on 
students’ publications.
Forty-seven students responded to the annual call 
for the ’Varsity crew at Princeton,
The Athletic Association of the University of 
Michigan recently voted to abolish basket-ball as a 
’Varsity sport.
Professor Fairchild of the .University of Missouri 
says that in England one man out of five takes part 
in athletics, in America only one in fifty.
According to The Lafayette, Lehigh and Lafayette 
hold the record for number of games played. Foot­
ball teams representing the two institutions have 
met in more contests than any other two elevens in 
the United States.
\ > 1 ‘ - i ;
A course of instruction in life saving is being of­
fered at Syracuse University. Practical work in the 
water is given. Charts illustrating the various 
methods of saving the life of a drowning person are 
exhibited.
Owing to faculty interference, the W. & J. Glee 
Club will not give any out of town performances 
this year. They will, however, give several concerts 
in Washington.
The students’ bank recently established at Colum­
bia University has proved a great success. Since 
the beginning of the Academic year 296 students 
have made deposits and about $18,000 remains at 
present in trust for the depositors. An average of 
$13,000 has been maintained in the bank during the 
last two weeks.
Several thousand brief copies of the Columbia Uni­
versity catalogue, printed in Chinese, under the direc­
tion of the department of oriental languages, have 
been sent to China for the information of prospective 
students.
To the question, “What does this University need 
most?” 95 per cent, of the Seniors at Purdue an 
swered, “A foot-ball team.”

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Jam. J. Flannery, President- J. J. Booth, Vice-President. J• G. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres. and Sec'y
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL­
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS­
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
PANAMA CANAL.
Dr. Martin Cooley, a prominent physician from 
Savannah, Ga., has just returned from the Isthmus 
of Panama and writes of conditions there:
“To anyone seeking an adequate conception of en­
gineering operations on the zone I can only advise 
a personal trip of sight-seeing there, which, by the 
way, is becoming increasingly popular now that the 
ghost of yellow fever has been laid. It is practic­
ally impossible to convey by description, and only 
feebly by photographs the immensity of Uncle Sam’s 
pet job in Panama. It is simply the biggest thing 
ever undertaken by man, and it may confidently be 
stated that 1915 will see the delivery of the goods; 
the passage of vessels through ‘the waist of the 
world.’
“In the four years of actual operations a con­
struction machine has been built up down there in 
the tropics that is without an equal in productive 
efficiency and morale. This big industrial army of
40,000 men is breaking all world’s records in con­
struction. At Gatun, for instance, where the great 
locks and dams of the Atlantic side are being built, 
it was not expected in the beginning to exceed a 
speed of 2,000 cubic yards of concrete per day. Now 
the setting of every sun sees 4,000 yards placed, and 
in a short time 5,000 yards per day will be laid. The 
world’s record, heretofore, has been 1,500 cubic 
yards.
Great Work Here
“In the great Culebra cut, where the Cordillera 
mountains are being pierced, a steady rate of excava­
tion of 1,000,000 cubic yards of rocks are blasted and 
removed every month. An idea of the vastness of 
this work may be gathered by the statement that
13,000,000 pounds of dynamite are fired in one year 
in zone operations.
“The individual interest in the work is unique. 
Each man on the job feels that it is up to him to
‘dig the big ditch,’ and is contributing his best phy­
sical and mental output to the work. v In fact, the 
high tension of work on the zone is interesting 
sociologists, who have believed that the white man 
could not do his best work in the tropics. This idea 
has been effectually exploded, and further evidence 
now provided that, as some economists have steadily 
maintained, the tropics will in the near future pro­
vide the theater for the highest material white civi­
lization.
“Much misconception is entertained regarding 
climatic and health conditions in Panama. The 
climate is in many ways, desirable. There is an 
annual average daily temperature of 80 degrees on 
the zone. The nights are invariably breezy and 
pleasant. Blankets at night are a necessity. The 
rainy season is disagreeable at times, but ample 
compensation is gotten in the dry season, from De­
cember to April, when the famed trade winds blow 
steadily across the isthmus and the days and nights 
are a superb succession that only the magic tropics 
can provide.
A Low Death Rate.
“It will probably surprise most American to know 
that the death rate on the zone is below that of most 
American cities. Yellow fever is now only a mem­
ory. There has been only one case there in four 
years. I saw this man, a young Englishman, who 
had been infected in Colombia. He died in Ancon 
hospital. It is interesting to note, as an evidence of 
what modern sanitary science has accomplished, that 
although this man lived in Panama City for several 
days before his death, not one further case de­
veloped.”
The Imperial University of China at Pekin has sent 
a request to the University of Chicago for three 
scientific professors to occupy the chairs in general 
chemistry, economic geography and civil engineering.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
Forbes and Atwood Sts.Oakland
^né'Best Store
Mpn's Kid Gloves special $1.00 a Pair.
Men’s Fall and Winter Weight Union Suits 
(Superior Make) $1.00, $1.50 to $3.00 a Suit.
“Onyx” Brand Silk Hosiery for Men, Black and all 
Colors, 50c a pair.
CONVERSATION.
Conversation is one of the blights of civilization.
People spënd thousands of pounds in education, 
in books, in travel, in theatre tickets, and all in 
order to be able to carry on a conversation.
As a consequence, the women talk about cooks 
and clothes and the men about the weather and 
women.
Conversation may be divided into chats, argu­
ments, piffle and palaver, writh gossips and quarrels 
as side issues.
Conversations are fortunately forgotten as soon 
as they are over, otherwise people w^ould be so mort­
ified over their inane remarks that they would seek 
new friends every day, fearing to meet old ones.
The idea Chat when people meet it is necessary 
for them to .talk has grown out of helpless self-dis- 
trust. Not over five out of a million people say any­
thing when they converse.
The art of conversation is a lost one and the art 
of keepnig still demands cultivation.
The trouble is that were we to develop the art 
of keeping still we should immediately begin to talk 
about it.—Life.
The Indiana Forestry Association is a new organ­
ization formed to conduct a campaign for forestiza- 
tion and better forest care. Former Vice-President 
Fairbanks conceived the plan and some of the lead­
ing college and university men of Indiana are on 
the board of directors.
0%OS0*DX0X0%0%0*O\0*O\0%0\0%O%O*0%0X * ' 00 THE SCHENLEY FARMS *w> 0
0 The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh £•
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and $ 
8 profit. g
0 *0XOS0\0%0S0X0%OX0X0X0XO%0XO*OSO*OX0X
Bell Phone
DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
532 Pittsburg L,ife Building 
liberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos. Prince Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats.
MacDonald’s
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice Cream—Fancy Boxes—Baskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.—Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.—Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.—Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.—Evening Service.
All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome
The foot-ball squad at the University of California 
numbers two hundred and sixteen men.
The Y. M. C. A. of the University of Michigan in 
a systematic endeavor to increase their member­
ship have nearly trebled the number of last year. 
Already the lists include 1,250 names and at least 
400 more are expected. Michigan is confident of 
the largest Student’s Association in the country.
In the annual pushball game between the Fresh­
men and Sophomores at California, only fifty mem­
bers of each class were allowed to play. After a 
few minutes, the ball blew up under the strain to
which it was subjected.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
GOOD CLOTHES CHEAPER
504-506 Federal St., North Side
•S*%4>X4-X4'%4-X*X4-X4»%*X*N4.X4-X4-X*%4*X'I'X'I*X+X4*«'I'S*^-I'X+X4*X+3M'«4'%4'X4-S*X4*«*X4*X*X4*X+X+X+X
Because laundry prices are considered exorbi­
tant the men at Beloit have declared a boycott 011 
the laundries of the city. Rules have been promul­
gated whereby the students are to wear soft shirts 
and collars on all occasions except Sundays and 
holidays.
Toronto University has a new athletic field with 
concrete grandstands.
Freshman from the country, after two months’ 
residence—Oh, I say, how do you turn the stopper 
so as to keep water in the bath tub?
Junior—What, man, haven’t you had a bath yet?
Freshman—Yes, sir, but I always took a quick one 
before.—Worcester Tech News.
She—“Of course, he bored me awfully, but I don’t 
think I showed it. Every time I yawned I just hid 
it with my hand.”
'He (trying to be gallant)—“Really, I don’t see how 
a hand so small could er—hide—that is—er— 
beastly weather we are having, ain’t it?”—The 
Transit.
“Was her heart transfixed by Cupid’s dart?”
“Naw—but she was stuck on the Pierce Great 
Arrow.”—Harvard Lampoon.
The editor wrote: “Dear Madame: The verses 
entitled ‘The Kiss’ are very clever. Can you assure 
me that they are original?”
The authoress answered: “Sir: Not quite. ‘The 
Kiss’ was a collaboration.” Cleveland Leader.
I want to be a granger,
And with the grangers stand, 
A pitchfork on my shoulder,
A haystack in my hand. 
Beneath the tall tomato tree 
I’d wield the shining hoe,
And chase the wild potato bug, 
As he gallops o’er the snow.
* *See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 4*
y the following scientific papers; £
' The Electric Railway Journal
<• The Electrical World> 4».j, The Engineering Record J
* *
I Oswald Werner & Sons Co. |
((( Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest ii
Dyeing and Cleaning Works L'i
SiOS550Hi?055iOSSiCe5tOSS;^gStCte5tOSSCCeStOS5CCe
* For specials occasions when you want the best try Du-
quesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church 
Highland and Center Avenues, East End
[3M3M3®SSM3I3®SM3I3MSMSIBJ3M5iSf3J3i3U5J5J3M3M5lD
Bell Phone Cleaning, Dyeing,1212-J Schenley Repairing and Pressing
LIEBIjIlTa BEOS.
-------Merchant Tailors-------
327 South Craig St. Pittsburg, Pa.
2M3Ei3J5MI3MSEMS13M3l3J3MSM3MSJBMS13J3J3J3M3!3®Sr
*****ii
LISTEN, STUDENTS!
What is appreciated more than a photograph for a Christ­mas gift? This coupon and Si.25 at studio entitles stu­dents to six beautiful College Panel Photos.
OAKLAND STUDIO, '
Forbes and Atwood Streets
Open Sundays. WALTER G. STEUERNAGEI,, Prop.
Arthur Howe of South Orange, N. J., was elected 
captain of the Yale eleven next season.
After a single ballot Howe’s election was annonuc- 
ed as unanimous by Capt. Fred Daly, who retires 
from the head of Yale active football with tonight’s 
election.
Go where all the fellows go to get a haircut, 
shave, and massage. Tech Barber Shop, corner 
Craig and Forbes Street.

---------------------------------------------------

IGTHE TARTAN
Barkley & Cummings
FORBES STREET PHARMACYulster collar overcoats
DO U KNO? We -y a full line of: j 
Ankle Braces, Wristbands, Knee Caps, Station- * 
ery, School Supplies, Etc. f
—these great heavy niixt “English” 
style coats—snappiest Coats of the year 
for Young Men, $15.00,. $20.00, $25.00, 
$30.00, $35.CO.Our Sanitary Soda Fountain is Unexcelled
4*Reymers, Johnstons and Park & Tilfords’ Con- * 
fections always fresh and plenty to select from. •£
^<ÿj¦{•4,4a4,4a4!4,4•4'4“M,4aí,4IlílI!"i,i',2u!,4,4,4,4’4a4,4>4,4,4,4',^
? # 
1 For ChristmasMELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFI ELD STREET 
+09 fIFTH AVENUEEAT HALLER’S MINCE PIE
HALLER’S FRUIT CAKESOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
HALLER’S PUMPKIN CUSTARD,STUDENTS
HALLER’S ICE CREAMCAPITAL
SURPLUS
$4,000,000
$3,200,0003618 Forbes Avenue,
e||aSc,£<i£M|caJ'agMgtajM£9ajM{Mj>aJi«{»3t^Mg>l£>0$,<|i><2t4M3°*I1 *2* "{»S'*!*»!’
4* Ask for “Cash Register Coupons” 4*4° 4*4* Return $5.G0 worth of these Coupons and re- 4» 
'I' ceive a “Leather Bill Folder.” “f*Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World ol
OFFICIAL 
EQUIPMENT
For ail Athletic Sports and Pastimes^
Vni! are interested in lUU Athletic Sport you should have a copy of the Spalding Catalogue. It’s a complete encyclopedia o f WHAT’S NEW IN SPORT and is sent free on request.
THE SPALDING
TRADEMARK
[Cow©
t
J Is known throughout the 4* world as a Guarantee jf 
J Quality.
—t—t- ,. _g. A -9 , J..TTTTTTTT I TWTT
S\\\\\\NX/R OQJJO/S QL OCK. I
439 Wood St., Pittsburg Pa. | ^ P/ TTS J3 UR G, PA * ^
»ít•|,4•4,4•4í4,4•4•4•
The World’s Best Hatters Make *£
\^J i
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or ¦ 4
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for ¦¦ 4
Dress. The best only from the World’s Best J ^
Hatters. J| ^
OTTO OETTING S C@J) ^
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie. " S
S4*\ +\+V! V> Vl*^ VI* VI1 VI*?^ VfrXi* Vl*%
