The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 9, November 15, 1983.
This scale model of the cruise missile landed in the cut as part of the CMU Peace Alliance’s week of nuclear education.
'82 CMU grad remembers Grenada
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
ITie University Disciplinary7 Committee 
(UDC) recommended last Thursday, 
November 10, that fifteen-year-old freshman 
Jeff Suzuki be suspended for the spring 
semester and prohibited from use of all com­
puter services.
In his memo to Dean of Student Affairs 
Braden Walter, Philip Miller, instructor of 
the Introduction to Computing course in 
which Suzuki is enrolled, charged the stu­
dent with being a “habitual and unrepent- 
ing abuser of the EDU systems.” Miller 
idded that Suzuki was “bragging that he 
rould, would and did” perform abusive acts 
m the EDU’s.
According to Suzuki, he created 80 sub- 
iirectories in an attempt to find out how 
nuch space he had in his account — the
K
rearing of sub-directories was taught in his 
ntro to Computing class. He said he had 
isked a tutor exacdy how much possible 
»pace everyone was allowed to use; the tutor 
inswered, as much as he needed, Suzuki 
ogged out. The system had not given any 
warning or message regarding his actions.
Approximately one week later, Suzuki 
aid he added six more sub-directories; 
igain, he did not receive any message from 
the computer. Chris Chow, a fellow class- 
nate, attempted to remove the sub- 
iirectories for his friend; the computer 
Response was ambiguous.
>|3 Suzuki says he logged on again three days 
¦ater to find his sub-directories gone. Assum- 
jlng, the sub-directories were removed 
¦because of Chow’s command, Suzuki tried 
»»gain to find his personal limit. The com­
puter gave a “cannot continue” message at 
V5 sub-directories. Suzuki logged out, believ- 
¦ng he had accomplished what he had set 
¦>ut to do.
I Neal Friedman, systems analyst, said he 
Hound the “garbage” after Suzuki reached 80 
Subdirectories, but Suzuki claimed he was 
®iever informed he had done anything 
¦vrong, pointing out that he had never filled 
¦lie sub-directories. When the system was 
wrought down to delete the sub-directories 
¦iter Suzuki’s second attempt, his account 
¦vas closed. He dien met with Miller and was
continued on page 5
n this /ssue
editorial
Computers enhance inconsideration . page 2
News
pM to be ready late December ... page 5 
peroin abuse increases....................... page 5
features
LMU grad in Grenada.......................page 7
['*11 Id Otre Center offers benefits ,. page 7
Entertainment
jftig Chill” evaluated....................... page 9
[¿rsickness changes name ...... page 17
»ports
artan football moves into playoffs page 11 
p’oss country enters nationals .,. page 12
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
When you live on a campus named True 
Blue and you go to a medical school on an 
island that bears the name of a fancy car, you 
don’t expect a whole lot out of the ordinary7 
to happen. But there are some things that 
even CMU is just unable to prepare you for.
An overthrow of a government, for in­
stance . . .
Bill Vanarthos graduated from CMU in 
1982 with a math degreee after spending his 
first two years in electrical and biomedical 
engineering. After losing interest in engi­
neering, the Bayside, NY resident decided to 
pursue a math degree largely becaues his 
strong concentration of these courses would 
enable him to graduate on time.
Vanarthos worked full-time as an admin­
istrative assistant in Columbia University’s
music department after graduation. This 
affiliation paid for courses in neuroanatomy 
and nutrition; Vanarthos always had every' 
intention of going to medical school.
Completing his studies at Columbia, 
Vanarthos tended bar over the summer and 
in August departed for True Blue Campus 
of St. George’s School of Medicine in 
Grenada.
The school is composed of two cam puses: 
Grand Anse and True Blue. The former is 
located along the beach and is larger than 
the other, containing the anatomy depart­
ment and housing second, third, and fourth 
semester students. “It’s a really tiny confined 
area. You knew everyone backwards and 
forwards. We became one big happy fam­
ily,” says Vanarthos. “Breakfast is from 7 to
9 and dinner is from 5 to 7 so you’re con- 
standy with each other.” True Blue houses
almost all of the 140 first semester students 
in 5 dorms, which are converted army 
barracks.
Vanarthos described the island as “very' 
safe.” In fact, he used to run every' day on? 
the now-famous airstrip on which the 
Cubans were working. They were quite 
friendly and always waved to him. There 
was no animosity, no inkling at what was 
festering. The med school was politically 
neutral and according to Vanarthos, con­
tributed 20% to Grenada’s economy. The 
people were happy with the government, or 
most of them. . .
The unexpected was about to happen.
On Tuesday, October 18, Grenada’s 
Prime Minister Maurice Bishop was shot 
and killed; the same fate soon awaited his 
cabinet. The military' government readily 
continued on page 4
CMU, Columbia cut off student
Nochlin wants quiet after hassle
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate News Editor
%DECSYSTEM—20 NOT RUNNING. 
This computerized message of late February’ - 
1982 marked only the beginning of Applied 
Math/Computer Science major David 
Nochlin’s computer related troubles. Thir­
teen months later Columbia University tried 
to sue Nochlin for $275,000.
He was logged in from CMU to a compu­
ter account that he had opened at Columbia 
over Christmas break that year, and main­
tained for twenty-five dollars a month.
The message indicated that Columbia’s 
system was inoperable, or had "crashed” in 
computer lingo. Nochlin claims that the 
crashing of Columbia’s system w'as purely 
accidental. “A couple of us were up late and 
I was looking around on Columbia to see 
what was up, read BBoard messages, see if 
anything was happening in New York since 
I’m from there. A fellow student came over 
and said that he wanted to try' out a couple of 
things on the machine. I said sure; I didn't 
particularly care.” They played with the
computer system a w'hile, but nothing 
harmful happened.
“Then he (the fellow student) said some­
thing to the effect of ‘Oh, I'm sure this’ll 
work,’ and the next thing I knew, the 
machine crashed. Systems crash here all the 
time, so we really thought nothing of it. It 
was three o’clock in the morning, nobody 
was logged in.” Nochlin wants the name of
the fellow student who actually crashed the 
system kept anonymous,
Nochlin received a computer message the 
next day from Columbia Director of Aca­
demic Computing, Frank De Cruz, who 
said that his Columbia account had been 
shut off because of misuse of his computer 
privileges. It alas said that Nochlin would 
continued on page 4
Graduate architect dies
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
Mary Beth Barrett, a 31-year-old CMU 
graduate student of architecture, died last 
Monday; the cause is believed to be suicide, 
though details are quite minimal.
Barrett, of Swissvale, had completed three 
years of study towards her masters of archi­
tecture as of spring ’83, She took diis semes­
ter off and w'orked full time for a company 
downtown while she concommitantly 
researched her master’s thesis.
According to a friend who requested ano­
nymity, “we all knew that she had been 
depressed. A great many people, both grad 
and undergrad, knew her.”
Barrett was described as “a student of 
excellent standing.”
The cause of deaih has not been released, 
only that Barrett was pronounced dead on 
November 7. Said the source, “none of us 
really knows what happened. We are all 
very upset.”
Services were held at St. Anselm’s Church 
in Sw issvale on Thursday, November 10. at
10 o'clock.
Freshman 
faces CM 
suspension

---------------------------------------------------

contiunedpaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
g4fi4rnomuetni4 2n4omur 1rm i7 fi“M1tn4O
i
Along with the increase in computer popu­
lation at CMU comes the increase in responsib- 
lity to manage the machines correctly. There is 
the responsibility of users, particularly stu­
dents, to manage their own computer usage.
Maybe it’s just because computers are new, 
and most students haven’t been taught compu­
ter etiquette yet, but the results of mismanage­
ment have ranged from minor irritations to 
major damage to the computer systems.
Last week the University Disciplinary Com­
mittee (UDC) heard a case involving a student 
who used up all the available space on the 
computer used by Introduction to Computing 
students. He says he wanted to see how much
space there was; UDC says he misused compu­
ter facilities, disabling it because he was fool­
ishly experimendng — over five hundred 
other students rely on the system he used.
He is not the only such person, of course. Far 
too often students walk into a terminal room 
and are unable to access the computers, only to 
discover that the people who are preventing 
them from logging on are doing such things as 
playing games, drawing pictures on the screen, 
or writing programs that do nothing useful.
Would these same people, for example, go 
to the library and check out all the books that 
members of another class need for an assign­
ment, simply to satisfy their curiousity about i 
personal research? Probably not, but these 
same people will go and [ab]use the computer 
resources freely.
Resources are being misused; it is inconsid­
erate to use resources when others need them. 
Of course, when there is no demand it is reaso­
nable to do inquisitive research, as long as it is 
not destructive. The reason students can get in 
trouble is that they use resources that are 
needed.
CMU students need to start taking the 
responsibility upon themselves for what they 
do.
Kennedy's future would have been promising
By Stuart Shapiro
“A National Experience.”
That’s what the television blurb claimed. 
I’m not sure one more J.F.K. retrospective is 
necessarily a national experience. Perhaps 
that is a description best reserved 
for the Presidency' of John F. 
Kennedy itself.
I can recall vague images of 
the events surrounding the end of that Pre­
sidency. Nothing very specific, just an 
impression of very great sadness. Something 
of great import was going on around me, 
something I couldn’t comprehend. I sensed 
that many others far older had trouble com­
prehending it as well.
Of all the men who have served as Presi­
dent during this century, John F. Kennedy 
occupies a place in many hearts second only 
to Franklin Roosevelt. F.D.R. ushered in an
era. Rifle shots twenty years ago in Dallas 
marked its passing. Even now, people still 
struggle to make some sense of it. Even now, 
people still mourn.
What was it about Kennedy’s Presidency 
that still strikes a chord within so many? 
Looking back with the hindsight of history, 
much of the magic seems to fade. The Bay of 
Pigs. Vietnam. The Cuban missile crisis. 
Suddenly, Camelot seems to come crashing 
down. This is not the stuff of dreams. It is 
the product of nightmares.
And yet there remains a certain romanti­
cism. It’s still possible to sense some of the 
excitement in the air in the aftermath of 
1960. A new generation of Americans was 
taking charge. The possibilities appeared 
almost boundless.
But the Bay of Pigs left optimism tom and 
tattered in its wake. And even though it was 
essentially a leftover from the Eisenhower
Administration, it seemed to suggest that 
the real world would not be quite as gener­
ous to the new generation as many had 
hoped. All the while, the now apparent 
spectre of Vietnam hovered on the horizon.
If the Cuban missile crisis was J.F.K.’s 
finest hour, in a sense it was also his most 
desperate. As it happened, he managed to 
back America and the Soviet Union away 
from the nuclear precipice. It all too easily 
might have gone the other way.
But the other guy blinked first and the 
spectre of Vietnam is a product of events and 
decisions J.F.K. never lived to see. I like to 
believe that those events would have 
remained unseen if he had.
What he did eventually come to see was 
the vast injustice of racial discrimination 
and the necessity of redress. Something was 
done, but once again beyond his sight. Still, 
the civil rights legislation that passed
through Congress in 1964 was launched by \ 
J.F.K. before his death.
If anything, the real magic of Kennedy’s | 
Presidency lay before him on November 22, ] 
1963. The Peace Corps. Civil Rights. The 
space program. Relaxation of the cold war. 
These were what would illuminate the 
future. J.F.K. only caught a glimpse.
And so one is left wondering. What if 
John F. Kennedy had served a second term? 
No answer can be more than speculation. 
But it strikes me that at the time of his death, 
while a painful past lay behind, a promising 
future lay ahead. Perhaps that is why so f! 
many Americans will take a litde time to4 
mourn once more. Not for the loss of a 
Camelot that never really was, but for a 
future that might have been and was not.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Leiten
Suzuki not guilty of abusing computer system
Editor:
This letter does not claim to be wholly 
based on hard, cold facts. Some aspects of it 
may be conjecture, hypothesis, or opinions.
On Thursday the 10th of November, Jef­
frey Akinori Suzuki was charged with mis­
use of the EDU-1 system, one of the 
computers owned by the Computer Science 
department; this system was also one of two 
systems that are being utilized by the 15-1 lx 
Introduction to Computing courses. By 
dusk, the committee passed judgement and 
informed Mr. Suzuki that he will be sus­
pended for the whole of the spring semester, 
arrjong other things.
I am not writing this letter with the intent 
of persecuting anyone; I am not writing this 
letter with hopes of swaying anybody’s 
opinion; rather I am writing this letter 
because I feel that justice has been 
miscarried.
Mr. Suzuki was accused of being a “. . . 
habitual and unreper.ting abuser of the 
EDU system. . .” (I quote from an October 
28, 1983 memorandum by Phil Miller, an 
instructor in the Computer Science Depart­
ment, to Dean Brad Walter of student 
affairs.) To understand the meaning of 
“habitual and unrepenting abuser,” we 
must first understand what Mr. Suzuki did.
On a particularly low-load very early 
morning, Mr. Suzuki decided to hack on the 
system and find out what his maximum 
allowed number of subdirectories was. He 
managed to create eighty subdirectories 
before stopping. Observing that there seemed 
to be no end to the nested levels of subdirec­
tories, he then asked a tutor if there was a 
legal limit of disk space allotted to each 
account. The answer was as much space as 
was needed. Mr. Suzuki then decided to stop
for the night and logged out, leaving the 
eighty subdirectories still connected to his 
directory.
A week transpired and nothing drastic 
happened. Suzuki logged in at the end of the 
week’s dormancy. Noticing that nothing 
had changed, he decided to experiment 
further to see if there was actually an 
unknown but built in legal limit to disk- 
space. He managed to add on another seven 
subdirectories before the system informed 
him that it would be impossible to continue 
any further.
Mr. Suzuki went back to his main direc­
tory level and attempted to remove the subdi­
rectories to no avail. Chris Sam Chow was 
then called upon to advise as Chris is knowl­
edgeable on the UNIX system. Yet, the sub­
directories persisted in staying. Then, 
another student came up and informed 
Suzuki that the terminal that Suzuki was on 
was reserved. Suzuki logged out.
Some twelve hours later, unknown to 
Suzuki, the system had an overload from the 
storage of his subdirectories; the other users 
>vho were then logged on were unable to 
store anything onto a disk. A system opera­
tor was called on to manually shut the sys­
tem down and clear out Suzuki’s account.
Several days after that, Suzuki logged on 
to find his subdirectories gone. He naturally 
assumed that the combination of attempt­
ing to remove the subdirectories and log­
ging out had gotten rid of them. He then 
proceeded to try once again to rebuild his 
subdirectories so as to test whether in fact it 
was true that the system indeed limited each 
user to eighty-seven subdirectories, all the 
while cofident in the fact that the combina­
tion of removing and logging out would 
delete the subdirectories. This time, he man­
aged to get to subdirectory level seventy-five 
before the system gave him a warning
message.
Now I wish to make clear that the bring­
ing down of the system was not known to 
Mr. Suzuki at all, nor was he aware that in 
creating the subdirectories, he was maneuv­
ering the computer into a position of 
impending failure. Several days later, the 
system had to be brought down again. Two 
weeks later Suzuki received notice, quite 
through an accident, that he was scheduled 
for a hearing; a message that Mr. Miller was 
to have sent to Suzuki of this hearing was 
either not sent or not delivered to its 
destination.
Now, during the hearing, Mr. Miller con­
tended that Jeff Suzuki had knowingly and 
deliberately attempted to and did bring the 
system to a crash. Mr. Miller further con­
tends that he has a witness who heard Mr. 
Suzuki brag that he [Suzuki] “. . . could, 
would, and did perform such acts [as crash­
ing the system.]” It must be pointed out that 
the phrase ‘‘I’m gonna’ crash the system” is 
but a phrase; it’s a joke in almost any com­
puter room.
During the course of the afternoon, Mr.
NMn4ni4 TidnfY
Editorials appear at the top of page tu>o, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of indnndual authors 
who are usually members of the irnn>ersity commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone number for 
iierification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan re semes the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Miller had not much to say. Mr. Miller’^ 
“star witness” quite surprisingly agreed I 
with the defense that it was improbable that | 
Suzuki could be the cause of a system crash, 
and that it would more likely be a result of a 
continued on page 3
P2mPeut4p
Editor in Chief..................................Monica Cellio
Managing Editor..............................Gregg Bossier,
Business Manager..............................Karen Tyi
News Editor.......................................Pauline Wen
Features Editor........................... Pauline Kramer j
Entertainment Editor.......................Susan Petrie i
Sports Editor......................................Ric Medrow
Photography Editor.........................Mike Pilewski
Production Manager..............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager.......................................Bonnie lopf
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Art Director................................Michael Sussman
Contributing Editor..................Vincent Guinto
Assoc. News Editor .... Christopher Johnston|
Assistant News Editor.......................Doug Blair
Asst Features Editor.........................Don Eggefl.
Asst. Entertainment........................... Scott Bozicj
Asst Sports Editor................Christopher Lewisl
Asst Production Mgr..........................Bob Aarhus;
Asst Ad Manager..............................Andrew i’hali
Classifieds.............................................Tara Dieguez
Subscriptions ..... ................Dana Poffenberger
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Neil Greenblufl1' 
Mario Rivas, Scott Safier.
(Copyright © 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial f 
reserves the right to withhold from publication an' 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailet 
address: Box 17. Schenlev Park, Pittsburgh PA I¦>-'* 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters:
involvement shows caring
Editor
What did you do for Halloween? While 
walking around campus today, going to 
classes as always, people have asked “Why 
are you dressed up?” — Some didn’t even 
realize that it was, indeed, Halloween.
Halloween, as well as Thanksgiving, St. 
Patrick’s Day, and other various holidays, is 
what gives America its character.
A character of spirit, action and involve­
ment. A place where dreams are possible, 
and very often come true!
I lived in Switzerland for a year., No, that 
doesn’t make me an expert on Swiss charac­
ter, but I think it gives me enough insight to 
be able to tell you a bit about the place.
Sw itzerland is a place where goals are very 
hard to achieve, and dreams are often impos­
sible. (I’m stydying Psychology and Math 
here, my Swiss friends said that that’s impos­
sible.) Most of the people who I met in 
Switzerland were very conservative, and very 
pulled into themselves.
I came back to America, longing for the 
feeling of being surrounded by people who 
were involved in more than just school and 
home, people who really cared about other 
people. I found this, to some extent, around 
my friends in my home town. Then I came 
to CMU. People here seem to be either very 
involved with school, or very involved with 
partying. I haven’t met many people who 
are involved in helping other people. Get 
involved, and show that you care.
Karen Parker
A freshman, involved in CMU Peace 
Alliance, Pro Life, CIA, etc.
H1’1Sn 4it tido 2m Eer Eui4O
ttEditor:
j On November 10th, Jeff Akinori Suzuki, a 
1 freshman, was recommended for suspen- 
K sion from the university for the spring 
I semester, by a Review Board. I am confused 
1 and surprised by this ruling. His instructor, 
I Phil Miller accused him of making the 
I EDU1 VAX unusable by creating a nested 
f subdirectory structure which took up a lot of 
:j disc memory. Jeff demonstrated his nested
I subdirectory file structures never crashed the
II system. Rather, a system programmer 
I brought down the system, and removed 
1 some of Jeff’s subdirectories.
If this is a school that encourages its stu- 
1 dents to be curious and explore the uses of 
1 computers, why has someone been sus- 
I pended for doing exactly that? It seems 
I hypocritical that the EDU VAXES allocate 
I everyone 100% CPU time, that the course 
I Policies and Procedures 15-lxx sheet says 
I that: “we encourage people to exercise their 
I curiosity in a productive manner”; and yet 
fir Jeff Suzuki has been recommended for sus- 
| pension for following these exact policies. It 
I should be noted that Phil Miller himself 
I told Jeff how to make subdirectories, but he 
J never told Jeff that what he had done was 
I wrong, or how to remove the subdirectories. 
I Therefore, because he was never told, and 
J because he never received any message from 
I the system (which had no CPU time 
I parameters), Jeff recreated the subdirectory 
I structure, when he logged in and found 
i them missing.
gp The main point of the hearing was that 
Jeff was a “habitual and unrepen ting abuser
¦ of the system”, which seems unlikely to me,
¦ if he was never told he had done anything
wrong in the first place. I think Jeff Suzuki 
is being punished to be set out as an exam­
ple, certainly not because he deserves it.
Tracey M. Pejouhy 
Class of’87
Head quarters 
A
War will always have survivors
By Jeff A. Suzuki
Last week’s column, I thought, would not 
have been partucularly controversial. After 
all, the endre column was basically an expo­
sition on nuclear war targets. Big deal. So 
they’re going to get Pittsburgh. 
||| who needs Iron City anyways? 
However, I know my belief or, 
“there will always be survivors” 
has continuouisly brought flak whenever I 
aired it. (Any Freshmen in Intro to Comput­
ing would know)
I now intend to justify my belief that 
“there will always be survivors.” Further­
more, I intend to be persuasive about it. 
Lastly, I intend to argue against the side that 
believes that everyone will die.
Argument Number One: nuclear wea­
pons cannot destroy every target in the Uni­
ted States, and, for that matter, the entire 
world.
Support: The Unted States is BIG. So is 
the Soviet Union. So is the world, for that 
matter. It would be physically impossible 
for any single country to destroy the entire 
world with nuclear weapons, parucularly 
when most of those weapons are going to 
very specific tartets.
Anti-thesis: so what? The fallout would 
kill everyone anvways.
Argument number Two: fallout would be 
minimal, except in very specific cases, and 
confined to the Northern Hemisphere.
Support: fallout is caused by several 
things. Primarily, it is caused by bits of 
things immersed in the radiation from the 
blast, thrown up into the stratosphere, to 
settle down on the Earth below. There is 
also some fallout from the parts of the mis­
sile itself.
The most efficient blast for hitdng civ­
ilian tartets is not a blast that would produce 
much fallout. The bomb would explode at 
about a mile (according to TIME Magazine, 
with the cover story “Thinking the Unthin­
kable”) and the force vector of the blast 
would be downwards. The debris would be 
very localilzed, since, at best, it would be 
scattered laterally. Not one bit of it would be 
thrown up into the atmosphere. Conse­
quently, the only fallout would be from the 
bomb itself.
There are targets which will tend to pro­
duce fallout, partucularly the missile silos. 
These wil probably not fall to a high alti­
tude blast, since they are heavily shielded. It 
would be necessary to plant a blast right on 
top of them. Direction vectors of the blast 
would be every-which way. Fallout, because 
some junk is thrown up.
H1’1Sn r1rMm4omo 7iu Imn4O tii f1uni1r
continued from page 2
software failure, which had not been 
uncommon in the past. During the hearing, 
I the general opinion, as stated by a faculty 
member, was pretty optimistic for Suzuki, 
it Unfortunately, that was not the case. The 
jffinal decision was that: 1) Jeff Suzuki will 
| have to fail the Introduction to Computing 
I course. 2) He will be banned from using any 
1 University computers, including those 
I belonging to the UCC. 3) He will be sus-
* pended for the entire spring semester. The 
board based their decision on the fact that 
^ Suzuki knew exacdy what he was doing and 
I had deliberately wanted to crash the system. 
| I now ask: does the Computer Science 
| department have any jurisdiction over the 
j 1 CC? If not, then why should Suzuki be 
fanned from using the UCC facilities when 
j die hearing was a Computer Science depart­
ment affair? Next, is it possible that the 
I board favored, or believed the word of Mr. 
Miller simply because he is under the
employ of the University? After all, Mr. 
Miller did hardly anything beyond showing 
up for the hearing to defend his end of the 
case. How can the board declare that Suzuki 
knew exactly what he was doing when 
Suzuki did not even know how to remove 
subdirectories, or to take a query on the disk 
usage to see if he had indeed filled up a 
significant portion of the root? Certainly it 
seems that more goes on behind the scenes 
than is apparent to the general public.
Mr. Suzuki, on the other hand, was (I 
quote the Miller memorandum) “unrepent- 
ing” and refused to mend his ways. How can 
one repent when one has not committed any 
sins? On both occasions erf the system fail­
ures, Mr. Suzuki was not notified of the 
graveness of his actions.
Could this incident, in Miller’s eyes, then 
be used as an example, a scapegoat? It is 
possible. Miller was heard at one time or 
another as saying: someone’s going to pay 
for this. Part of his frustrations may stem
from the fact that over the summer there was 
a pre-college program with high school stu­
dents. Suffice it to say, they did not behave at 
all while on the systems.
On a closing statement, I wish 
to point out that a tutor had remarked that 
security was a fairly recent implementation 
to the system; they are currendy being added 
as the need arises. A lot of the need may arise 
when a user stumbles upon a feature/bug. If 
the price for each safeguard is the suspen­
sion of a student for a semester, then it is 
surely not worth it even to log on.
It seems to me the Phil Miller is being very 
immature over the whole thing; someone has 
played with his toy and broken it, now he 
must get his revenge, even if it means a 
miscarriage of justice.
R. Zung, Architecture, ’88 
D. Brahler, Applied Math, CS, ’87 
C. Chow, Applied Math, CS, ’87 
G. Gay, Applied Math, CS, ’87 
,,, v, i > i ¦.« . , i ,0» Apfelhaun\,,’97
Where will this fallout go? If the missile 
silos were hit, fallout would proceed North 
(i.e., towards us). Since the missile silos are 
in the mid-west, mostly, the West would get 
very little from them (Yaa, California)
Furthermore, barring such things as vol­
cano eruptions along or very near the equa­
tor, very litde stuff thrown into the 
atomsphere from the Southern Hemisphere 
gets into the atmosphere of the Northern 
Hemisphere, and vice versa. Even in the 
event of a nuclear war, even if the Northern 
Hemisphere bombs itself to death, the 
Southern Hemisphere would probably 
remain untouched by most of the stuff blow­
ing up up North.
Antithesis: even if we survive the blast and 
the fallout, the radiation will totally destroy 
the environment, the ozone layer, cause 
mutations, etc. etc.
Argument Number Three: The ozone 
layer has shown itself rather rugged, surviv­
ing against the “dangers” of freon. Now, 
we’re talking about the “dangers” of nuclear 
war. All the open-air bomb tests of the fifties 
(in the United States, the Soviet Union and 
China) have not killed us yet. Further, the 
Ozone layer is not that fragile; it is, as a 
matter of fact, self repairing. A detailed dis­
cussion would be involving, but the basic 
line behind the formation of ozone, is that 
energetic ultraviolet radiation let through 
by insufficient amounts of ozone tend to 
give normal oxygen molecules enormous 
energy to form their more unstable forms of 
ozone. This decreases the amount of ultravi­
olet coming in, whilch decreases the 
amount of ozone forming. If significalnt 
portions of the layer are destroyed, then 
more ultraviolet would come in, forming 
more ozone.
I could continue with arguments, but 
since space and time are limited, I won’t. I 
think it sufficient to say that, in all probabil­
ity, it is doubtful that everyone will die in the 
event of a nuclear exchange.
Yet a nuclear exchange would have some 
side effects; aside from some environmental 
changes. It would have some political and 
cultural side effects. An extrapolation 
beyond the bomb is in order — for more 
next week.
Jeff Suzuki is a freshman in Information 
^¡systems atidns »columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
Accusations dropped; Nochlin now studious
continued from page 1
have to explain himself to De Cruz or J. Ray 
Scott, who is the Director of Administrative 
Systems here at CMU.
“They shut down my account here for 
two or three days, then I kind of forgot about 
Columbia,” said Nochlin. He left school at 
the end of the Spring 1982 term to work for a 
computer consulting firm and then .Ameri­
can Bell in Basking Ridge, New Jersey. He 
heard nothing more from Columbia until 
November of 1982.
Nochlin received a bill for unpaid charges 
from Columbia which dated to the previous 
February. “I went to the Cashier’s Office at 
Columbia in person and paid the bill. The 
person said, ‘Okay. Let me give the Compu­
ter Center a call, we’ll have your account 
reopened.’ I had assumed that they had had 
it closed because of lack of payment.’’ The 
following day, Nochlin went back to 
Columbia and tried to log in to his account. 
His userid still existed and did until Sep­
tember of 1983, but his password didn’t 
work. Two members of the Columbia’s 
computer staff asked Nochlin for his student
identification card, and then his name. 
“They knew who I was, and dragged me 
down to Security as a trespasser. I got a 
summons for that,” he commented.
“Five months later in March, I get a 
knock on the door, some guy there hands me 
a court order to appear before the New York 
State Supreme Court. $25,000 for damages. 
$250,000 punitive damages,” said Nochlin. 
Columbia Computation Center Director 
Bruce Gilchrist claimed that their systems 
had been crashing, among other problems 
about the same time they found Nochlin on 
campus.
Gilchrist also accused Nochlin of other 
sundry' trouble-making. “They had some 
other things about me attacking the United 
States Government military networks— 
crashing government computers, and crash­
ing computers at CMU,” said Nochlin. 
Gilchrist refused to comment on Nochlin’s 
situation.
In the affidavit that he filed against Noch­
lin during the lawsuit, Gilchrist also said 
that Nochlin had been apprehended by the
Department of Defense Criminal Investiga­
tion Service and accused Nochlin of break­
ing into computers at four Universities, and 
at a United States Air Force System.
Nochlin says that most of Gilchrist’s 
charges weren’t true, and the ones that were 
true were blown out of proportion. He also 
said that nobody from any government 
agency apprehended him at any time. The 
New York City office of the FBI confirmed 
that they had no investigation of David 
Nochlin at any time during or before the 
lawsuit with Columbia.
Nochlin was never proved guilty or inno­
cent. An agreement was reached in which 
Columbia waived their claims of monetary 
damage provided that Nochlin never access 
a Columbia computer again.
But Nochlin’s troubles didn’t end there. 
“The case was settled just as IVargames was 
about to appear and the press loved that. I 
got 20 or 30 calls from newspapers around 
the country.” Nochlin never spoke with the 
media until this interview, and feels that he 
has been treated unfairly by reporters. “The
general newspaper articles were along the 
lines of ‘Columbia says, blah, blah, blah ’ 
and down at the bottom of the article it 
would say, ‘Mr. Nochlin denies it.’ ”
Bad press and freshman year pranks have 
affected Nochlin’s reputation - at CMU 
Computation Center staff member, James 
Murawski, “zeroed” Nochlin’s computer 
account on September 9, making it impossi­
ble for Nochlin to login. Murawski says that 
he saw Nochlin running a program that 
was driving the computer load up, and 
stands by his action. Nochlin’s account was 
quickly restored when he was cleared of 
wrongdoing. According to Computation 
Center sources, most of the Computation 
Center staff opposed Murawski’s action and 
feel that he jumped the gun with his action. 
“I can’t really blame him,” said Nochlin. 
“He’s just doing his job and is trying to keep 
the system out of trouble.”
Nochlin says that he now wants only to 
hack and get his degree from CMU with as 
little aggravation as possible. “I just want a 
chance to live my life in peace, and let all 
this blow over.”
ì
Grenada G no food, no water, anda curfew
continued from page 1
imposed a 24-hour curfew or what Vanar- 
thos calls a “shoot on sight curfew.”
From Wednesday the 19th until 6 a.m. 
Monday, the inhabitants of True Blue did not 
leave the dorms and became very “self- 
sufficient. There was no water so if you 
wanted to take a shower you’d hope for rain 
and punch holes in the gutters,” said Vanar- 
thos. They also dug latrines. To compound 
the situation, the surrounding islands set up 
a food embargo because they did not 
approve of the event that had transposed.
On Monday the government lifted the 
curfew and urged people to go out and do 
their business. The leaders of the overthrow 
dropped memos that all was safe. Classes are 
held at night because of the huge daytime 
heat, so students eagerly awaited the return 
to classes that night, the 24th. At eight 
o’clock another curfew was announced, to 
last until 5 that morning.
During the curfew over the weekend, 
“Radio Free Grenada,” a propaganda radio 
program, planted seeds of fear by informing 
the people of false invasions to unite them
against the new government’s opposition. 
They wanted to quell internal strife because 
the military constantly feared riots after 
Bishop was killed. “We were really skepti­
cal, just bew ildered. We were unsure of what 
to do.”
Vanarthos, in a phone interview from his 
home, relayed the dilemma that he and his 
friends faced during the period of “safety”: 
to stay at school or try and leave the island. 
“If enough people left, the school would 
have to close. The Ambassador from Barba­
dos came on Saturday and told us ‘between
the lines’ not to leave — that it wouldn't be 
safe.” he said. For people who’d fought so 
hard to get into school, the decision was 
tough. The choice was made easier by 5:30 
AM Tuesday. The Rangers — 1st Division 
of the 75th Infantry — landed on the airstrip 
25 yards from True Blue.
“We woke up to gunfire. I saw bullets 
with flares shoot across the campus. I didn’t 
know who was invading. If it was the 
Cubans, we’re dead; if it was the Americans, 
continued on page 7
A Phi O
H21ttdmI1r
to the
FnuMiut
Li”m“Imu Wb ymMeutn4OR
MOREWOOD 
12:00 (noon) 
2:15
4:45DONNER
12:15 p.m. 
2:30 
5:00NLC• JbpD& lf2meMqs
Sign up at Skibo Informatio Desk 
Limited Seating Available
Another A Phi O service
Saturday, December 3 
6*30 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom, 
Carnegie -Mellon University
$7.00 ye CMU students 
(credit will be given 
to contract holders) 
$9.00 ye other nobility 
$4.50 wee children
•c NCyc UFyVg8FC hcFHP
Entertainment will he provided by the Chamber Choir and friends—Ye quests are 
invited to wear traditional clothe--Tickets are now on sale Monday-Friday, 9~5, at 
the CMU Skiho Information Desk — Please make reservations before Thursday,
December 1 — For more information call 578-2107
J

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1983—The Tartan—Page 5$9.6 million ITC to be completed in December
By HOLLY BIERTEMPFEL
Tartan conttiueodp
Researchers from IBM and CMU, work­
ing together to develop the personal com­
puting system on campus, await the 
opening of the new Information Technol­
ogy Center. The ITC, a 71,500 square foot 
building located adjacent to Warner Hall, is 
scheduled to be fully occupied and open in 
late December.
The ITC will be housing the Joint Ven­
ture Group, CMU and IBM representatives 
involved in developing the personal com­
puting network at CMU. The ITC Joint 
Venture Group is working to eventually
provide each student with his/her own 
computer.
IBM is funding the Information Technol­
ogy Center and is also providing the hard­
ware for the project, including the network 
itself and the design of the advanced work­
stations. However, the corporation will 
have all inventions, patents, and copyrights 
resulting from the project. CMU is provid­
ing the software.
Sections of the building are currently 
occupied and have been so since July. The 
sub-basement level of the building is occu­
pied by the Computation Center and houses 
the computer operating systems formerly
located in Wean Hall. The building will 
also eventually house the Computation 
Center offices, currently located on the fifth 
floor of Wean Hall, the Administration Sys­
tems Group, now occupying the eighth 
floor of Wean, and the ITC Joint Venture 
Group, presently located in Hunt Library 
and GSIA. Also, 40 new terminals and a 
training room (“the cave,” now located in 
Wean Hall) will be located in the ITC build­
ing. However, the opening of this section 
will be delayed even later than the projected 
December date.
Construction began last November and 
according to Doug Philps, Director of
Design and Construction, “this was very 
unusual as only the basic structural and 
foundation plans and designs were com­
pleted at this time. Design and planning has 
continued throughout the construction.” 
Representatives of the user groups to be 
housed in the building participated in the 
designing.
Project costs are currently totalling 9.6 
million dollars, including the moving, reca­
bling, and equipment costs, as well as the 
$7.7 million construction costs.
For more information on the ITC and its 
goals, please turn to page 8 for a related 
article.Suzuki suspended for "crashing* EDU
continued from page 1
informed he would fail the Intro to Com­
puting course. Two weeks later, Suzuki was 
told of the pending hearing.
Miller says he requested disciplinary 
action because Suzuki had “taken away the 
ability of hundreds of others to work, ... 
bragged about it ... and did not claim he 
would not do it again in the future.” Suzuki 
stated that others had done “worse or the 
same” and nothing had happened. Miller 
responded, “Anyone caught doing the same 
thing would have been treated the same 
way,” adding, “I believe he knew exactly 
what he was doing.” In last Saturday’s Pitts­
burgh Post-Gazette Friedman, a senior EE 
major who testified against Suzuki at the 
UDC hearing was quoted as admitting, 
“We’ve had far more serious incidents than 
this.”
Earle Swank, a CMU professor of Eng­
lish, confirmed in a Pittsburgh Press article 
that the UDC is recommending suspension, 
though he did not reveal any testimony
from the hearing or discuss the university’s 
stand. He did say “it could be assumed” 
UDC did not believe Suzuki’s claim that he 
wasn’t aware he was overloading the 
computer.
Miller and Suzuki met twice before the 
UDC hearing in an attempt to resolve the 
situation. Commented Suzuki, “He was 
fairly obnoxious toward me. He said he 
knew I was deliberately and maliciously try­
ing to bring down the system. He said I 
could be expelled and sued for this and was 
not at all helpful in trying to resolve the 
situation. He also refused to hear my point 
of view. Every time I tried to say something 
in my defense, he interrupted me.”
According to the Computer Science 
department’s Policy and Procedures man­
ual, “it is reasonable to use the EDU systems 
for educational purposes which are not 
directly course-related. Indeed, we encour­
age people to exercise their curiosity in a 
productive manner.”
Freshman Denver Braghler, a student 
who acted as Suzuki’s counsel in the hearing 
feels that UDC was given the wrong impres­
sion about what Suzuki actually did. 
Braughler explains that UDC thought 
Suzuki “had put down the computer system 
from another student’s account. It was also 
not clear to the board that Jeff tried to des­
troy the monster he had created.”
According to freshman Tracy Pejouhy, 
one of Miller’s tutors overheard a student
saying he would crash the system. When 
Miller found out, Pejouhy exclaimed, “he 
was very irate, very angry. He said he was 
going to crack down on users and was going 
to make an example of someone.”
Walter plans on conducting an investiga­
tion of his own before making a final deci­
sion. Walter states, “the whole notion of 
technology and changing it is a very serious 
notion, but I also don’t want Jeff to get 
railroaded.”
Heroin abuse on the rise
(CPS)—Marijuana and cocaine use has 
leveled off, but heroin abuse continues to 
rise, the National Institute on Drug Abuse 
told Congress last week.
“A very important change in direction 
has occurred,” NDA’s William Pollin said.
But some on the congressional panel 
doubted the conclusions, claiming that 
police report more drug abuse and the drug 
users who drop out of high school and col­
leges weren’t counted in the survey.
Pitt officials say students are simply 
ignoring its new ban on beer in the dorms, 
or are bringing in hard liquor instead.
Baylor President Herbert Reynolds last 
week threatened alcohol and drug abusers 
with suspensions, hoping to control abuse 
without resorting to the “tactics of the Old 
Testament.”
“MONTY PYTHON’S THE MEANING OF LIFE” 
Written by and Starring GRAHAM CHAPMAN • JOHN CLEESE 
TERRY GILLIAM ERIC IDLE TERRY JONES 
MICHAEL PALIN Produced by JOHN GOLDSTONE 
Animation & Special Sequences by TERRY GILLIAM 
Directed by TERRY JONES A UNIVERSAL RELEASE
nniOOUrr rmiHIO) ' Read th«r from Ciro\e Prvss r wuw«w»t.r..w**
LriCortccrt 
MlclicaL KellyBlAncliArd
* «Mil a*¦< m ' i
Date Sunday, Nov. 20th 
Place DH2210
Time 6, 8, 10, 12 
Admission $1.00 w/CMU ID
Skibo Ballroom, 5 At urei Ay, 
Nave tribe r 19, s- oo p.m.
Tickers are *¿.50 in Advance At Skibo 
Informât iouDesk, *3.00 At the door,
Sponsor* bt} ShadtfFkfe CAic^t Fclieu*W..p

---------------------------------------------------

wcL:FUgL 
c c4gVCcHH 
ÆcUbVgFC 
CcCPUVcH
Ce“mOnm-Umddi4 U4n”murntY
Mumrm4tr t2m 
198b wm4je“n4 hp henudmrr Cmft1um
*F“munfe n4 t2m Terrn4O Ce4mR 
Ui”n4O UpHp g4o1rtuY PiEeuo t2m 
W1rt Cm4t1uYp*
omdn”mumo IY ViImut cp 'KnuIY
Chief executive officer, Westinghouse Electric Corp.
P1mroeY, Li”m“Imu 1D, 198b 
DRb& Mp“p, HSnIi wedduii“
Admission is free 
Tickets are available in the 
Public Relations Office 
5017 Forbes Avenue
<*

---------------------------------------------------

aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahmet1umrp
Vanarthos talks of Grenada
Kirby on future business
p C2ndo Ceum Cm4tmu Im4m7ntr Snor
9'
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
I Tartan Staffwriter
In 1971, the Camegie-Mellon Child Care 
a Center opened its facility. Since then, the 
I center’s reputation for quality child care has 
I grown considerably and it is often repres- 
I ented as a model program. The program is a 
university-affiliated organization which is 
I dual-licensed by the Pennsylvania Depart- 
-| ment of Education (Board of Private Aca- 
jy demic Schools) and the Pennsylvania 
if' Department of Public Welfare.
The center is primarily designed to fulfill 
the needs of the working family as it remains 
open from 7:15 a.m. until 5:45 p.m. The 90 
youngsters who attend vary in age from 24 
years through kindergarten and generally 
are the children of CMU-employed parents.
CMU has supported the center due to 
recognition of its necessity. The family of 
the 1980’s consists of employed parents with 
young children, who are anxious over find­
ing a safe and creative environment for their 
children.
Due to this concern, the administration 
has made multiple improvements to ensure 
accessibility and comfort for the children. 
During this past summer, renovations of 
Morewood gave the center, which is located 
in the basement of A tower, new floors and 
heating.
Also, the administration has offered a 
reduction in tuition for those that are full­
time employed by the university. The 
reduced rate of 25% can be chosen as part of 
CMU’s flexible benefit plan which allows 
the staff to pick from a selection of benefits. 
With two working parents, this benefit can 
be extremely useful. The partial fee remis­
sion allows CMU families to send their 
children with less expense to a guaranteed 
competent program.
& Meum4tr
To further reduce the cost, a child care tax 
credit has been approved. This credit, which 
equals from 20% to 30% of the child’s care 
expenses, is deducted directly from the fami­
ly’s income taxes. Both parents must be 
working to become eligible, yet even if child 
care fees are partially subsidized, this credit 
can still be applied. Because of this, CMU 
employed families are urged to claim this 
credit.
Marsha Poster Rosenbloom, director of the 
facility for eleven years, says that the pro­
gram strives for top quality. She believes 
that “happy children that leam a lot at a 
young age’’ is the definition fo a successful 
child care program, and she likes to feel that 
the CMU Child Care Center fits these 
qualifications.
Robert E. Kirby, chainnan and chief exec­
utive officer of Westinghouse Electric Cor­
poration, will discuss aspects of economic 
global interdependence when he delivers the 
1983 Benjamin J. Fairless Memorial 
Lecture.
The Fairless Lecture is scheduled for 5:30 
p.m. Tuesday, November 15, in the Skibo 
Ballroom and is sponsored by CMU’s Grad­
uate School of Industrial Administration. 
The annual lectures were established in the 
memory of Benjamin F. Fairless, former 
president of U.S. Steel Corporation.
Kirby, an executive for 37 years with West­
inghouse, will be retiring as chairman in 
December. ITie Fairless Lecture is expected 
H these children, photographed at last years Spring Carnival, have CMU-employed parents, to be the last public lecture he makes in his
chances are likely they are part of the CCC’s program* capacity as. Westinghouse’s chainnan and
chief executive officer.
Kirby’s lecture and remarks will touch on 
various aspects of economic global interde­
pendence, increasing productivity and the 
importance of free trade. He will also talk 
about business and education cooperation 
needed to produce innovative ideas for 
future industrial and economic grow th and 
the importance of business and government 
creating an environment to allow free trade. 
Kirby is expected to also include an overview 
of his perceptions of America’s economic 
strengths and business directions for the 21st 
century.
The Fairless Lecture is open to die public. 
Tickets may be obtained by calling Public 
Relations.at 578-2900........... ................
iihui“ DRb& ti 9Rb& ep“p Em Emum MueYn4O 7iu i1u dn”mr*
continued from page 4
we re safe, ” relayed Vanarthos. “From 5:30 
to 9:30 AM we were praying for our
lives.”
Finally he recognized the Hercules, a US 
plane which Vanarthos knows had the abil­
ity to shoot “some crazy amount of bullets. 
When they flew over, I said, ‘this has got to 
be the US.’ ”. The Rangers’ orders to stay 
low in moving out of the dorms to a tiny 
lecture hall close by. They set up a kitchen 
and a MASH unit in the building, which 
only consisted of a cafeteria and a large and 
small lecture hall. All the while Radio Free 
Granada was announcing that they had 
been invaded by foreigners.
“We were still scared but we felt a little bit 
better about having support.” The Grena­
dian and Cuban snipers were a constant 
threat but Vanarthos said that none of the 
students were injured. His next door neigh­
bor’s pillow caught a bullet and one of the 
dorm rooms was hit by a grenade after they 
had evacuated.
The firing began to grow more and more 
distant and plans were made to leave the 
following day, Wednesday the 25th at 2 PM. 
As reports came in that the Cubans might 
invade, the time of departure was moved to
10 a.m. that morning. The students marched 
up the embankment from True Blue and 
took off on the airstrip that Vanarthos 
used to jog on — that was later found to be 
lined with ammunition. How long it had 
been there is anybody’s guess. The evacua­
tion from Grand Anse was trickier because 
according to Vanarthos, “the students had 
to run between the marines to get to the 
helicopter. Once they got there, if there was 
no room, they had to wait in the ocean.” 
Even the 82nd Airborne didn’t expect to 
accomplish the mission: “They told us that 
it would be the first time an air evacuation
BILL VANARTHOS
would be successful,” said Vanarthos. “It 
was really a miracle that no one was hurt.’’
After making four stops and retelling 
their tale to hundreds of interviewers along 
the way, Vanarthos and his cohorts finally 
arrived at LaGuardia Airport in New York. 
He unexpectedly became more of a hero 
than his circumstances would indicate. The 
CMU grad had picked up a bullet from 
the airstrip before departing. At LaGuardia 
he presented his father with the tiny souvenir. 
The next day he was on the front page of the 
New York Post, soon after were television 
interviews w ith ABC, CBS and Good Morn­
ing America. This Thursday there will be a 
banquet at the Plaza Hotel.
“The first day was ridiculous—the phone 
was ringing all day. I went into a diner that 
night at about midnight or one and there I 
was on the cover already. The media is a 
crazy bunch of people,” he said.
Along with all the craziness was the 
seriousness of the situation—everyone on 
that island was a potential hostage. The 
State Department told them in Charleston, 
S.C. “to remember that we wrere still stu­
dents of the school and to be careful what we 
say.” Hordes of reporters weren’t the only 
problem—the students had to make their 
own reservations from Charleston to Savan­
nah to New York, as well as paying for the 
tickets. The government is also charging 
them an evacuation fee which Vanarthos 
figures “shouldn’t be more than a flight 
from Grenada to Puerto Rico.” Such things 
seem trivial in light of almost being hit with 
machine gunfire and “having to hit the 
deck” in the lecture hall.
Presently the students have been relocated 
as per the direction of Chancellor Charles
Modica, whose headquarters is in Bay Shore, 
NY. Vanarthos and other first semester stu­
dents are at the NJ School of Dentistry and 
Medicine, part of Rutgers Univ. Second se­
mester students are at Brooklyn’s Long Island 
Univ.; St. Barnabas took third semester peo­
ple; fourth semester students are in Barbados.
“You know, this may sound corny but 
you really do become a better person out of 
all this. Living in Grenada and studying for 
a test when the electricity went out—which 
happened all the time—you light a candle. 
You know that you don’t have to do that at 
NYU ... It becomes second nature, you put 
things into perspective and have a lot more 
regard for things.
“I remember praying that I’d see my par­
ents and sister again. I was ready to w alk out 
of there with just the clothes on my back.”
US is sensible with arms
The United States is not the reck­
less purveyor of arms that alarmists depict, 
but actually has shown great moderation in 
selling military weapons, the coauthor of a 
new book on arms sales says.
Michael D. Salomone, coauthor of the 
new book, The Reluctant Supplier: U.S. 
Decisionmaking for Arms Sales, says that 
“when all arms transfer programs of the 
United States over a 30-year period are 
reviewed, there is a remarkable stability in 
the level of U.S. exports when costs are 
stated in constant rather than inflated 
dollars.”
He notes that the Soviet Union, France, 
the United Kingdon, Brazil and Israel “are 
quite clearly driven by commercial impera­
tives” in selling arms but that “despite the 
relative size of the U.S. effort, our reluctance 
to sell is greatest.”
Salomone, associate dean of Camegie-
Mellon University’s College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences, charges that many crit­
ics of arms sales are guilty of “mispercep­
tions and methodological errors."
He acknowledges that the arms tranfer 
phenomenon, which began in 1940 with the 
sale of 50 overage destroyers to England, is 
now a major part of U.S. policy. But he 
denies charges that U.S. arms exports are 
now out of hand.
“Numerous laws — which are enforced - 
prohibit the U.S. from stimulating a 
demand for arms,” he says. “An elaborate 
decisionmaking machinery and approval 
process now involves both the Congress and 
the Executive Branch actively in approving 
arms transfer agreements. This clearance 
system represents more than 30 years of offi­
cial U.S. reluctance to transfer arms.”
He brands as “simply not true” the charge 
continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
up arms racesenior system designers. CMU is contribut­
ing space for the project and access to the ’ 
needs of a campus community. The ten tech- y 
nical people working directly for CMU are 
split fifty-fifty between those previously 
associated with CMU and new people. Also 
working for CMU are about a dozen sup­
port people, half of them work-study 
students.
dent, faculty, and staff — should be able to 
communicate with any other by a uniform 
means. Every person should have sufficient 
compudng power to prepare reports, per­
form computations, and peruse data bases. 
To meet this goal we are designing both a
this new element — using it in our research, 
understanding its nature, building it into 
the fabric of our scholarly lives.”
To cope with this explosive growth, 
CMU signed an agreement with IBM about 
a year ago to jointly develop the system
continued from page 7
that the Reagan administration, in revers­
ing Carter’s restraint policy, has abandoned 
careful policy review and policy coordina­
tion of arms transfers.
Other statements that Salomone and his 
colleagues label “misperceptions” are 
l)“Arms transfers will continue to expand 
because the demand for arms worldwide is 
growing.” They respond with “evidence of a 
real structural limitation” on the part of the 
U.S. to deliver arms in significantly greater 
quantities than is already underway.
2)“Arms sales are not critical to the eco­
nomics of Western suppliers.” They point 
out that “a failure to comprehend the 
national political and economic importance 
of arms sales for America’s European allies 
was a major reason for the collapse of the 
Carter administration’s multilateral effort to 
restrain arms transfers.”
Salomone concludes that “although 
much fault can be found with arms transfers 
as an instrument of U.S. policy, that does 
not justify abandoning the instrument. 
Imperfect as arms transfers are, they still are 
a practical, available and potentially effec­
tive foreign policy instrument. Critics have 
not yet proposed new of effective low-cost, 
lower risk substitutes.”
For all those who’ve always wanted to 
spend New Year’s Eve with their CMU 
friends, but couldn’t because of Winter 
break, AB Dance presents “New Years in 
Times Square.” Come to the ball room this 
friday at 9:00 and step into New York Gty’s 
Times Square.
Resque and Wham will play the music, 
AB will provide the refreshments, and “Dick 
Clark” will do the midnight countdown. 
Pick up your party hat and noisemaker at 
the door, and oh, don’t forget to write your 
New Year’s resolutions on our resolution 
wall! So grab your friends and come watch 
“the ball” drop — it’ll be the “smash” of the 
year!
This confectionary concoction is a custom-made creation of Pace’s Ice Creamery, located on 
the comer of S. Craig and Forbes. Known as a “put-in” (as opposed to a “put-on”), the in­
vention starts out as a flattened scoop of ice cream and is topped with fruits, nuts, candies, Oreo 
cookies or other goodies. The ice cream is then reformed into a ball and served up.
mon. nov. 21 4:00-7:00thurs. nov. 17 y 
4R&&-7R&&
kiltie cafe
GRILLED SIRLOIN STEAK
BAKED HAM with CHERRY SAUCE
QUICHE LORRAINE 
BAKED POTATO 
RISSOLE POTATO 
PEAS and MUSHROOMS 
GLAZED BABY WHOLE CARROTS
HOMEMADE TURKEY RICE NOODLE SOUP \Jp.
BOUNTIFUL SALAD BAR ^
ROAST TOP ROUND of BEEF 
(CARVFD TO ORDKR)
CORNISH HEN with APPLE CHESTNUT STUFFING 
BAKED HAM with ORANGE RAISIN SAUCE 
STUFFED SHELLS with MEATLESS SAUCE
CRANBERRY RELISH
WHIPPED POTATOES with GRAVY 
BROCCOLI CARROTS
WALDORF SALAD 
CRANBERRY SOUR CRF.AM MOLD 
RELISH TRAY 
SPINACH and ONION SALAD 
MARINATED GREEN PEPPERS 
and TOMATOES 
GARDEN TOSSED SALAD 
COTTAGE CHEESE with PINEAPPLE
PUMPKIN PIE 
APPLE PIE 
MINCE MEAT PIE
HOLIDAY CAKE 
APPLE CIDER
PUMPKIN PIE with WHIPPED TOPPING 
APPLE CHEESE CRISP 
HOLIDAY CUPCAKES
gPC OiedR fi“Mdmtm fi“M1tmu fi““e4o
By W.J. HANSEN
Special for the Tartan
For more than a year the ITC — the Infor­
mation Technology' Center — has been 
quiedy designing a ne t work -of - the-f u m 
for CMU. Perhaps it has been too quiet,
US must keep
since many wonder who we are and what 
we’re up to. This column introduces the 
ITC and discusses its work.
Physically, the ITC is composed of about 
thirty people working now in GSIA and 
Hunt library and is expected to move to the 
new University Computing Center build­
ing early next year. Our goal is to make 
possible pervasive communication and 
computing on campus. Every person — stu-
network-based file system and work station 
software to access that network.
Computing has been a vital component 
of CMU for many years. As President 
Richard Cyert put it in his charge to the 
Task Force for the Future of Computing in 
October, 1981, explosive growth of campus 
computing has resulted, in part, from 
“repeated decisions throughout the last 
quarter century to involve ourselves with
necessary to connect together the needed 
computers. Many vendors offer individual 
workstations, but no other similar effort is 
being made to tightly interconnect a group 
the size of the CMU community — at least 
five thousand people. Note that today the 
campus has fewer than four thousand 
telephones.
IBM’s contribution to the ITC is both 
financial support and the work of nine

---------------------------------------------------

c4tmuten4“m4t
Blanchard bridges religion
and a lot of music
g
The Shady side College Fellowship is 
sponsoring a coffeehouse featuring Michael 
Kelly Blanchard on November 19 at 8.-00 
pm. Blanchard is a singer and songwriter 
utho has been called “C. S. Lewis with 
guitar.” He comes to CMU toward the end 
of a nationwide tour following the release of 
his fourth album A Common Thread. The 
following is an interview with Michael 
Kelly Blanchard by Wendy Scott, Tartan 
staff writer.
Scott: How long have you been writing and 
performing music?
Blanchard: I’ve been writing since my fresh­
man year of high school, but I’ve only been 
performing since 1967. I’ve done radio 
shows, coffeehouses, clubs, restaurants, ski 
resorts. Gradually, as I was doing that, 
requests came in. My first request came from 
Pittsburgh. Then word of mouth took over, 
and now there is a growing constituency, 
with little pockets throughout the country
— the biggest is still in Pittsburgh, but it has 
broadened now to include Colorado, Cali­
fornia, and the Chicago area.
My writing has continued, and the writ­
ing is more the heart level. Performing, I 
don’t want to demean it, but it’s easier for 
me. There is no more efficient way to expose 
the music than performing it, but of the two, 
writing is by far the more important.
Scott: Obviously, your Christian faith has 
affected your music. Could you discuss the 
importance of that integration to you? 
Blanchard: I think music is analogous to 
anything believers do. It’s not really separate 
and it shouldn’t appeal just to Christians. 
As Christians we move in a different drama, 
not in a haughty sense, but we move in a 
different style — one of sacrifice. The most 
unorthodox, arresting, and attractive char­
acteristic of a Christian performer is his 
desire to give unconditionally, without 
waiting for applause. There is an industry 
out there, but it’s an industry primarily for 
Christians, which is not what should
happen. The nature of our call is not to 
exclude ourselves.
As for my music, it’s what I might call 
redemptive art — seeing beyond the facts, 
getting to the heart of the matter. We live in 
an age that’s obsessed with facts, that’s 
accepted facts as truth. We need to be aware 
there is a deeper truth. That’s really what 
redemptive creativity is about: attempting to 
go beyond the facts. A classic example 
would be a song from the latest album A 
Common Thread, called “Danny’s 
Downs.” The song deals with infanticide, 
but the song doesn’t stop at issues — waving 
red flags and drawing lines, blowing people 
out of the water. It’s getting to the heart of 
the matter, which is Danny. Often the issues 
today are so factualized that the human 
beings are left out.
Scott: How do you get the idea for a song 
like “Danny’s Downs?”
Blanchard: People actually get disap­
pointed when I tell them there is no Danny. 
Generally, the people in my songs are com­
posites, examples of truth. We are subjective 
creatures, but as artists we have to be as 
objective as we can. The end result is still 
plenty subjective. With “Danny’s Downs” I 
was trying to see the issue clearly without 
being overwhelmed. It could have ended up 
being a horrible protest song — “Stop Kil­
ling the Babies,” that sort of thing. Some 
people would have said “Yeah,” but they all 
would have said “Yeah” anyway. The hope 
of “Danny’s Downs” is that it would sides­
tep a lot of rhetoric.
Generally, I don’t believe you should 
write songs about yourself. You’re too close 
to yourself. Basically, I love to see what 
words can do. You put two seemingly innoc 
uous words together that don’t have too 
much energy on their own and suddenly 
they just pop off the page. It’s a reaction; 
that’s the fun of creating. The trap people 
fall into when writing is trying to do some­
thing completely new, and that’s folly. It’s
r
Holly Thuma, John Scherer, and Christy Baron appear in Pittsburgh Public Theater’s A 
History of the American Film closing in December.
also arrogant. What you try for is a fresh way 
of looking at a certain situation. It may be a 
cliche, but you try to put it in a different 
light so it doesn’t feel like a cliche.
On Christian musicians:
The term unfortunately applies. That 
non-Christians haven’t heard “Christian 
music” is ah indictment of us. We have 
reduced the term Christian to an adjective, 
which it never should be. It should always
be a noun. As an adjective it’s confined to a 
small groups of individuals. Christian 
music have been confined to certain themes
— and nothing is farther from the truth. 
Christianity is boundless in potential. It 
isn’t served well by confining it to a certain 
way of writing or to special themes. I fully 
believe an uplifting, exhilerating Christian 
album could be one which never refers to 
Christ. That is my view of Christianity.
Big Chill Mui”mr Star Wars rfumm4Euntmu nr 4i 7d1Sm
5 By LEE BROWNSTON
j Tartan Staffumter
Seven of the eight lead characters in The 
Big Chill attended the University erf Michi­
gan at Ann Arbor in the late sixties, as did 
director and co-screenwriter Lawrence Kas-
¦ ; ~ dan — and this reviewer. If you
, are so unfortunate as to have
been deprived of this back­
ground, you can nevertheless 
enjoy this movie, although it will certainly
6 appeal more to people in their early thirties 
than to those still in their teens. Take this 
test: who are Huey and Bobby? If you ans­
wered that one correctly, you know it, and 
are the target audience for this movie. If not, 
well, at least you didn’t have to live in fear of 
the draft; if you see this movie it might help
S
' you understand what all the fuss was about.
Ann Arbor was acknowledged in the six- 
| ties to be the midwest’s center for radical 
politics and drugs. Tom Hayden, then a U 
of M student (now married to Jane Fonda), 
co-founded Students for a Democratic 
Society, the dreaded SDS. The Michigan 
j Daily, U of M’s financially independent col- 
| ^ge newspaper, fanned the flames with its 
I*>liticized news coverage. With our politi­
cal organizations, manifestos, and marches, 
we were making history, and we knew it.
M But then came graduation. No longer 
V Were parents subsidizing protest; career and 
family started to loom large. Nixon became 
president; demonstrations started seeming 
j lri( reasingly futile and, after the shootings at
*'..........*....................
Kent State, dangerous. Radicals started 
working “within the system,” eventually, 
almost imperceptibly, becoming the estab­
lishment, people just like our parents. The 
slogan “ never trust anyone over 30” has a 
special poignance for those who have long 
since passed that landmark.
The Big Chill is about eight of those 
former students, seen fifteen years later. One 
of them, Alex, has inexplicably killed him­
self, and the others, scattered over the coun­
try, convene for his funeral — and for some 
other reasons. Most have become extraordi­
narily successful over the years. Harold 
(Kevin Kline) manufactures athletic foot­
wear (radically named “Running Dogs”, 
and boosted as “sole food”); he is married to 
classmate Sarah (Glenn Close), a physician. 
Michael (Jeff Goldblum), who once wrote 
inflammatory pieces for the Daily, now 
writes drivel for People magazine and is a 
shameless hustler. Meg (Mary Kay Place) 
fled legal aid for the undeserving poor to 
join a large Atlanta law firm. Karen (JoBeth 
Williams), who opted for security by marry­
ing a Detroit businessman, now romantic­
izes her lost opportunity to be a writer. Sam 
(Tom Berenger) plays a private eye in a 
trashy but very popular television series 
called “J.T. Lancer.” They’re a souped-up 
version of your average graduating class.
But not all have immersed themselves in 
bourgeois decadence. Nick (William Hurt) 
remains a dropout. In a latter-day variation 
on a theme by Hemingway, Nick returned
from Viet Nam with a war wound that ren­
dered him impotent, and squanders his life 
drifting and dealing drugs. But he also has 
retained his youthful skepticism, and con­
fronts life with humor instead of with the 
self-pity of his former classmates.
By way of contrast, there are the outsiders. 
First comes Chloe (Meg Tilly), Alex’s very 
young girlfriend. She is rather heavy- 
handedly portrayed as being at her physical 
prime but having nothing intelligent to say. 
A lot of smug humor comes from giving her 
wildly inappropriate things to say. Sim­
ilarly, Katherine’s husband Richard is too 
readily sneered at for not being hip enough. 
But perhaps it is this cliquishness that Kas­
dan is satirizing.
The screenplay, by Kasdan and Barbara 
Benedek, is virtually plotless but dense with 
superb dialogue and telling details. The 
opening credits, showing each of the charac­
ters at various stages between first hearing of 
Alex’s death and arriving at the funeral, 
sketches their personalities virtually with­
out dialogue (the soundtrack is, aptly, “I 
Heard It Through the Grapevine”). A later 
scene reveals even more by showing what 
each has packed for the trip. I will resist the 
temptation to quote some of the juicier 
lines; you’d hate me for it. (For excerpts 
from the screenplay, which differs slightly 
from the filmed version, see the latest issue of 
Film Comment.)
What there is of the plot is a little shaky. 
For example, Meg, unmarried at 33, wants
to conceive a baby that weekend, seemingly 
unmindful of how it would affect her career 
as an attorney; the creak of plot machinery is 
evident in this device for bringing her into 
intimacy with each of the four male charac­
ters. There is also Nick’s scrape with the law, 
which is resolved a bit too easily to be 
believable.
The actors blend together wonderfully, 
but some stand out more than others. Willi- 
lam Hurt, to whom I am quite partial, never 
fails to delight, and this role was tailor made 
for him following his appearance in Kas­
dan’s Body Heat. Kevin Kline follows up his 
electric performance in Sophie’s Choice 
with subder but no less masterful interpret- 
tation as Harold, the moral center of the 
movie. Jeff Goldblum is the comedian of 
the group, leering like a cartoon character. 
In fact, the only colorless performances are 
of the two most glamorous actors, Tom 
Berenger and JoBeth Williams, but then 
they were not given much to work with.
Lawrence Kasdan has had a remarkable 
career. He started out writing screenplays for 
kiddie films from the Lucas Spielberg fac­
tory (i.e.. Raiders of the Lost Ark and the last 
two Star Wars films) and then burst onto the 
scene as a mature filmmaker with the 
supremely erotic Body Heat, a revision of 
The Postman Always Rings Twice in 
which the lust was made tangible. The Big 
Chill shows that this was no fluke. Kasdan 
promses to be one of the most interesting 
filmmakers of the eighties.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
Paintings, woodcarvings 
on display at Gallery
By KEITH RECKER
Special to the Tartan
Michael Kapeluck, Sharon Henry, Ben 
Carter and Diane Thodos will show their 
work at the Forbes Gallery this week. The 
opening is scheduled for Tuesday, 
November 15, from 7 to 9 pm.
Kapeluck’s painting is in the midst of an 
evolution. The focus on visual gesture, 
which he developed in the past year, blends 
with content from earlier work. The themes 
in Kapeluck’s work bring into play the
Institute 
to portray 
floral art
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu­
mentation at CMU is exhibiting “Flora Por­
trayed: Classics of Botanical Art from the 
Hunt Institute Collection” through Febru­
ary 24.
The exhibition includes 88 of the insti­
tute’s finest works and represents the various 
eras of botanical art. It is accompanied by an 
illustrated book with an introductory text, 
running commentary' and 55 color repro­
ductions. The institute has reproduced the 
18th century painting “English and Mourn­
ing Irises” by Georg Ehret in full color as the 
show’s poster.
Open to the public free of charge, the 
exhibition will be on display in the Pent­
house of the Hunt Library from 8:30 am to 
noon and 1 to 5 pm, Monday through Fri­
day. (The institute will close December 26 to 
January 2).
entrapping nature of stereotyped thinking 
and the conflicting labels people place on 
themselves. “I Am a Christian,” a very recent 
work, shows a figure in ritual vestments 
surrounded by an intricate, heavy halo. 
Because of its elaborate patterning, the halo 
almost becomes a headdress. The crown of 
pattern weighs its wearer down, keeps the 
outside world from entering, and makes 
thinking a routine, uninspiring operation.
Sharon Henry will show her drawings 
and prints. Her task, she says, is to “take real 
forms and real imagery and extend them 
into mood-creating compositions. I try to do 
this through the abstraction of real form, 
through establishing arr effective mass and 
space.” In a large charcoal drawing using 
the forms of octopi, Henry, after many stu­
dies of animals, created a texture, pliability 
and eerieness which endow the piece with a 
special mood.
Ben Carter uses materials with an eye 
toward hiding their true nature, yet main­
taining a respect for their natural properties. 
“The properties of wood serve as a back­
ground reference when I make a sculpture.” 
In “Root of a Skyscraper,” we see Carter pull 
mechanical elements from the organic curve 
of a twisted log. There are the shapes of 
pipes and bolts, which might also be seen as 
bones. The texture and color of wood show 
themselves, and yet, as a whole, the piece 
looks as if it were made of iron. The dialectic 
of the natural and living versus the mechan­
ical and non-liv ing are strongly at odds in 
Carter’s work.
Diane Thodos will be showing paintings 
and prints. Thodos’ work is process- 
oriented; her imagery and techniques
involve leaving the various stages of paint­
ing intact on the canvas. Improvisation and 
its opposite, tight control, are also at odds in 
the pieces, “Breakfast of Bed” is typical of 
Thodos’ work. There is a breakfast plate, 
with the charcoal undersketching showing 
through the paint, and the un-gessoed can­
vas showing underneath the undersketch-4
ing. The pieces Thodos plans to show allow 
the viewer to enter her enigmatic realm of 
color and form.
Gallery hours are Wednesc y through 
Friday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Saturday and 
Sunday from noon to 5 pm.
The range of professional opportunities at 
Megatest is almost unlimited and we've perfected a 
management style that makes it possible to move 
freely among them. You follow your instincts and 
ambitions. If you've got potential you can unleash it 
at Megatest.
Megatest Corporation, 2900 Patrick Henry Dr., 
Santa Clara, CA 95050, (408) 988-1708. Contact: 
Anjie Couch.
UNLEASH YOURS AT MEGATEST.
Ce“M1r g4tmu”nmER hunoeY, Li”m“Imu 18, at
the Career Services and Placement Center. 
(Don’t bother dressing up for the interview.)
Carnegie Museum of Art present “Abstract Painting and Sculpture in America 1927-1944” 
through December 31. This piece is by David Smith entitled Interior for Exterior, 1939.
The Job
We are now designing new test systems 
which will handle the “super-chips” of the future. 
These systems will require astoundingly powerful 
computers and near-perfect analog support circui­
try. They will be specified in terms of picoseconds, 
nanoamps and gigabits.
We need people with as much potential as 
our new systems in the following areas:
Computer Scientists Ilanguage processors, interactive 
development tools)
Analog and Digital Engineers (high-speed ECL gate 
arrays and hybrids)
Marketing Engineers <combines technical and marketing 
skills)
The Potential
The Company
Megatest builds the finest LSI testers in the 
world. Our systems test more microprocessors, 
EPROMs and Bubble Memories than anybody 
else’s. They have broken all industry records for 
reliability. They have altered the way people think 
about device testing.
We’ve attained this standing in the industry 
while remaining a small, friendly, employee-owned 
company. How? By creating an environment that 
rewards creativity, effort and results, not politicking, 
rank or tradition. And by emphasizing neat ideas 
more than neat desks and neat dress.
POTENTIAL IN ELECTRONICS IS MORE THAN JUST VOLTS

---------------------------------------------------

HMiutrp
CMU home Saturday as playoffs begin
All-time leading PAC scorer Joe Vasalani looks to rack up points next week against Salisbury State.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
It’s official. Camegie-Mellon is in the Div­
ision III football playoffs. At 2:08 Sunday 
afternoon, the United Press International 
wire service informed The Tartan that CMU 
will be playing Salisbury State of Maryland 
on Saturday, November 19, at 11:30 a.m. 
One reason for the early start is so that the 
game will not conflict with the Pitt-Penn 
State game down the road at Pitt Stadium.
CMU is undefeated in nine games while 
Salisbury State finished 9-0-1. CMU is 
ranked second nationally while Salisbury 
State is ranked fifth.
The Division III playoffs lead up to the 
national champoinship game better know n 
as the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. This year 
the bowl w ill be held at Kings Island, Ohio, 
just outside Cincinatti, on December 3.
CMU sports information director Bruce 
Gerson has informed us that the tickets for 
Saturday’s game will be two dollars for stu-
dents and four dollars for others attending 
the game.
In other matchups, the Division III 
playoffs look like this:
? East Region-Hofstra, who beat the 
Coast Guard Academy Saturday, 31-10, 
hosts Union College in Uniondale, New 
York. The winner plays the CMU-Salisbury 
State winner.
a Midwest Region-Number one ranked 
Augustana College of Illinois, who beat 
North Park 35-16, will play Adrian College
|_?in>ivio uj jwiiu ïwjgcxa
at Augustana.
? Western Region-Occidental of Califor­
nia will host Wisconsin-Lacrosse, who 
upset fourth ranked Wisconsin-River Falls 
28-7, to knock WRF out of playoff 
contention.
? No one is sure, at this point, where the 
second round games will be played. Not 
much is known about Salisbury State; infor­
mation has yet to be received by Gerson. 
Salisbury State beat Widener College, 23-7, 
Saturday.Fan support lacking for Tartans
Jim Morrison led the Tartans in rushing.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
anponu contt gpeodp
Apathy.
It’s a subject mentioned to me many times 
in my three months or so here at CMU. 
Nowhere is this apathy more noticeable 
than in the lack of enthusiasm 
for CM 11 sports.
Why is this? Maybe because I 
as a freshman do not under­
stand the long standing tradition of not 
going to sporting events. The CMU athletic 
program is one of the best Division III pro­
grams in the country, The cross country 
team has won 54 consecutive meets. Hie 
girls’ tennis team finishes in the top two of 
their conference every year. The quality is 
then*. So w hat is the problem? Granted, aca­
demic pressures at our beloved university are 
tough to deal with. And unless you have 
played competitive athletics, you probably 
don’t know the euphoric feeling of people 
getting psyched up in the stands and sc ream­
ing for you.
My main point is directed toward this 
year’s football games. A new attendance 
record was set this year against Washington 
Sc Jefferson, a game won by CMU 20-0. But 
much of that was to see the people from Hill 
Street Blues. When the team played Case 
Western Reserve, Case brought almost 1,000 
students on buses to see the showdown 
between number two CMU and number 
four CWRU. Would any of our students 
have gone to Cleveland? John Can oil is in 
Cleveland. Last week we played John Car­
roll. I could list the people who were at the 
game, and this would still be a short article. I 
was there, the radio broadcasters, four or fiv e 
other students and three1 cheerleaders, rhat 
game was to decide whether "our” Tartans 
would go to the playoffs. Hie Tartans won, 
19-0, to win the right to play Salisbury State. 
Hie game will be played Saturday, Novem­
ber 19, at Tech Field. Game time is 11:30 a.m., 
and tickets are two dollars for students and 
four dollars for others attending.
last week. I called the Associated Press
Pittsburgh office. When I told him that I 
was from Camegie-Mellon, the man, who 
was in the AP sports department, said, “I’m 
surprised anyone at CMU is interested in 
football, I heard student interest is pretty 
low.’’ I was embarrassed.
Why should a 9-0 team that is number 
two in the country go unnoticed at its own 
school? This is not directed at the fans who 
come out even week, but to those who say 
“We have a football team here?"
This is not a public relations publication, 
but in this case I feel obligated. What else is 
there to do Saturday afternoon. Study? No 
matter who the Tartans play Saturday, it 
will be an extra boost to each player to have 
a large, enthusiastic crowd watching them 
play. It would be a first at this school.
Sometimes, a football team has what is 
tailed a "twelfth man," that intangible fac­
tor that can decide a close game. Often, the' 
crowd can be that factor. Only the CMU 
students and faculty can make that intangi­
ble difference.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
Tartans earn ticket to Nationals
Harriers weather misfortune to place fourth
Bv DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffu'rilrr
Cross Country is not a pretty sport. Freez­
ing weather, high winds and slick surfaces 
all combine to make Cross Country an 
incredible test of endurance and strength. At 
the Eastern Regional Championship on 
Saturday, the conditions were brutal. The 
temperature barelv rose above the 30 degree 
mark. The winds whipped and gusted. with 
no apparent consideration for direction 01 
consistency. The course, which was at Mem­
orial Lake State Park, was covered with 
snow and mud.
The race started, and John Wessels and 
Mike Short both moved near the front of the 
pack. At about the two mile mark, however, 
the first of two major misfortunes hit the 
Tartans. Short, who was running in about 
7th place at the time, tripped and fell to the 
ground. As he started to get up, another 
runner came along and put his hand on 
Mike's shoulder, causing him to go down 
again. By the time Shon regained his feet, he 
had lost 20 crucial places.
The second major misfonune struck near 
the mid-point of the race. John McGowan, 
who was running in about 17th position 
stepped in a mud puddle. When he brought 
his foot out, his shoe didn't come with it. 
After running for about a mile without a
When the CMU cross country team 
arrived at the Regionals on Saturday, their 
task was clear. They had to place in the top 
four of the large field, so that they could 
move on to the National Championships. 
Coach Gary Meckley’s harriers were poised 
for the big effon that would be necessary to 
extend their season for another week.
shoe. McGowan dropped out of the race. 
Running any further could have resulted in 
injury.
Despite these occurences, the Tartan har­
riers got the job done. CMU finished in 4th 
place with 119 points behind Glassboro 
State. Frost burg State and Franklin and 
Marshall. Wessels finished 4th with a time 
of 25:32 for die 5.1 mile race. Short moved 
up some after his fall and finished in 19th 
place. Kevin Brewer ended up in the 23rd 
spot. These three all earned All-List honors 
for themselves. Thom Bell (32nd), Bob 
Dusch (41st) and Chris Shafer rounded out 
the Carnegie team.
So now the Tartans are off to the Div ision
III National Championships in Newport 
News, Virginia at Christopher Newport 
College. Obviously, CMU will face the best 
possible compeudon in Newport. Meckley 
commented, “If we can get a good starting 
spot and have a good race, we should cer­
tainly be able to improve over last year’s 
performance.” Meckley also picked North 
Central College as the favorite for the 
National Championship but said that 
Glassboro State, Brandeis and St. John’s 
should also do quite well. “Division III has 
become so much more competitive. Glass­
boro State’s entire team is seniors, and they 
placed 5 people in the top 20 in the Region­
als. A few years ago, we were able to do that 
with a team of freshmen!”
It all comes dowm to this one final meet 
for the Tartans. With all the bad luck that 
has befallen this team all season long, it 
would seem as if they are due. This team, 
which is loaded with talent, has one more 
chance to show’ their ability to the entire 
country.
Kelly I
The Hamers manage to squeek through to Nationals despite misfortune.
Ci“Mden4 Ci“Mden4
Academic Response Program
Complaints: You have them, we want them. Complain about anything aca­
demic: courses, TA’s, homework, majors, tests, and professors. If you voice 
your opinion we can take action. Fill out this form or pick up one at the info desk 
and return it to Academic Affairs Committee, c/o Skibo Info Desk.
Comments:aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
funded by your activities fee
J

---------------------------------------------------

November 15, 1983—The Tartan—Page 13Quarterback continues football heritage
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
“It was a waiting process, waiting for my 
chance to play,” said Dave Zito. It seems that 
his time has come. As the junior quarter­
back on CMU’s undefeated PAC champion 
squad, Zito has come a long way since his 
start in football at age eight.
“I have an older brother, and my dad was 
a football coach. It was just natural that I 
play. I was the kind of kid who grew up with 
a ball in my hand, instead of a truck.”
Now Zito either hangs on to the ball and 
outruns opponents, or he releases the ball to 
his teammates. Zito was the most efficient 
passer in the PAC this year, and he led the 
Tartans in total offense. He ran for 202 
yards and completed 27 of 49 passes for 582 
yards and a 55.1 percentage.
In high school, Zito’s athletic ability 
extended past playing quarterback. Along 
w ith being an all-conference QB and defen­
sive back for three years at McGuffey High 
School in Washington, Pennsylvania, Zito 
also was an all-conference baseball player. 
As a wrestler, he qualified for the state tour­
nament as a sophomore and a junior, at 126 
and 132 pounds.
Zito is a small player, listed at five foot 
eleven inches and 165 pounds, and when he 
came out of high school, he was looking for 
big things. “I was more interested in the 
Ivy’s, Lafayette and Lehigh. I got in touch 
with some smaller schools near home such 
as CMU and Washington & Jefferson, and 
when I realized my size would be such a 
detriment, I decided CMU was the best place 
for me. Everybody thinks they can go to Pitt 
and Penn State, then when the time comes, 
not everyone can. I realized I wasn’t going to
ORGAN - Repos­
sessed Lowrey Model 
D550, split manual 
rhythm section, 13 
pedals, if interested 
please call (412) 
483-5561.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
TVc8LFLP?
And you didn’t mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621-1988
Pregnancy Testing Center
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Both centers will be open daily for 
pregnancy tests and counseling.
play afterwards, so I decided to have fun 
playing and still get an education.
“I’m still pissed at my dad. My mother’s 
Irish, she’s got all the size, and I got my 
father’s side. He’s Italian, he’s little.” Frank 
and Marilyn Zito have three other sons, 
Frank Jr., 22, Jimmy, 15, and Michael, 14. 
The youngest, Michael, got his mother’s 
side. Michael is six feet, 180 pounds at his 
young age, and plays tight end.
Once he got to CMU, Zito went through 
that “waiting process.” As a freshman, he 
played the same role that Mike Hensel is 
playing with this year’s team. Zito started as 
the number four quarterback, then moved 
to number three. He filled in wherever 
needed, at wide receiver, on kickoff returns, 
and at running back. In one game, Zito got 
into the game as a running back and gained 
over 100 yards in the fourth quarter.
As a sophomore, it was harder for Zito. “I 
was in limbo. I sat around and watched. But 
I learned a lot. Bill (Kiselick, last year’s star­
ter) and I were good friends, he taught me a 
lot. Everybody goes through that period.”
This year, things have been different. 
After being alternated with Joe Mollica for 
most of the season, it appears Zito has
emerged as the number one quarterback. 
After winning Skoal player-of-the-week 
honors versus Bethany, Coach Chuck 
Klausing went the entire game with Zito at 
QB against Case Western. “I’ve done what 
I’ve been asked to do. Everybody has a role 
on this team. When everyone fills their role,
we are effective. Give Coach Klausing credit, 
he kept everyone working toward team 
goals.”
So now, as a team, the Tartans head into 
the playoffs with the highest of team goals: 
to win each game, one at a time, and win the 
Division III championship.
photo by John Rogers
Quarterback Dave Zito runs his “bread and butter” roll-out play against Allegheny.
Futn7nfned g4tmddnOm4fm Vmrmeuf2 
et t2m 8m4mued cdmftunf Vmrmeuf2 & 
ym”mdiM“m4t Cm4tmu
Center
MrdNtl Centn Im! luUin| rrntHouw Right (Mh floor)211 North Whittirld Strret FttHburgh, PA 1S1W
The
Environment
The R&D Center—one of the world’s leading laboratories linking 
basic research to real-world problems—has openings for innovative 
talent. Superb facilities include a large computer network of VAX 
machines utilizing VMS and UNIX operating systems, Symbolics and 
other personal workstations. Not only is this an opportunity to work 
with a top interdisciplinary team, but our upstate New York location 
offers unusual recreational, cultural and cost-of-living advantages. 
Boston, New York and Montreal are within a few hours drive as are 
the recreational opportunities of the Adirondack Mountains, Lake 
George, and Cape Cod.
The
Challenge
General Electric’s Research and Development Center is expanding 
upon its research program in Al. Unique opportunities exist to in­
fluence the present and future direction of information systems in one 
of the most diversified high technology companies in the world, with 
businesses in aerospace systems, medical electronics, information 
and financial services, power, automation, and industrial system 
products.
The Al program will expand the research emphasis on:
• Artificial Intelligence Systems
• Expert Systems
• Knowledge Representation
• Man-Macnine Interface
• Inference and Reasoning
• Learning
Professional
Opportunities
We have immediate openings in research and systems activities at 
the engineer/scientist, project leader, and program manager levels in 
our Artificial Intelligence Research Program. Opportunities exist for 
candidates with either MS or PhD degrees in Computer Science and 
specialization or experience in Artificial Intelligence.
Contact
Investigate excellent salaries, benefits, and growth prospects by 
sending your confidential resume to Mr. Neff T. Dietrich, University 
Relations and Recruiting, Ref. CC-2, General Electric Research and 
Development Center, PO. Box 6, Schenectady, NY 12301.
The future is working 
at General Electric
8cLcVFCcCcCPVgC
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
plans to win with backcourt leaders
Ed Pultz and David Bart, Roger DeVries, 
and Steve Jochnau may see action.
The frontcourt lost Carl Mulac and Kevin
Resnik to graduation and solid replace­
ments are needed. Anderson disagrees. “You 
don't replace. You develop other players and 
when you put them into the game, you hope 
they can do what you need them to do.”
Richard Neff and Scott Saxton both 
earned letters as freshmen last year and 
lookg to be the Tartans’ strength up front. 
Neff 6’6”, 197 pounds, and Saxton measures 
in at 6’5” and a sturdy 213 pounds. Ander­
son says that both have become stronger and 
more aggressive since last season.
The small, “weakside” forward position 
belongs to sophomore letterman George 
Debski. However, the 6’3” Bethel Park 
native is being seriously challenged by 6’2” 
Robert Kukowski, another sophomore let­
terman. Debski and Kukowski were both 
reserve swingmen last season.
Junior Gregg Latsko and sophomores 
Tom Suckling and Dwayne Waite are the 
reserve forwards. The backup center is 6’8” 
freshman Dave Gestrich. “Gestrich could be 
a force, but he’s got a lot to leam. He’s 
probably used to playing against guys a lot 
smaller than him, so he’s not particularly 
agressive. Around here, he’s gonna’ have to 
get used to the guys being his size, or 
bigger.”
The Tartans have some big non­
conference games coming up before they 
open up the conference season at home vs. 
Bethany, on January' 11. CMU will be par­
ticipating in the University of Rochester 
“Tip-Off” Tournament on Thanksgiving 
Weekend, and the Camegie-Mellon “Big 
Heart” Classic the following weekend, right 
here in Pittsburgh. “These tournaments 
will gear us up because we’ll be playing
quality teams before our conference games."
As for the President’s Athletic Conference 
(PAC), Anderson feels that anything goes.
“The PAC championship is always up in the 
air. I think we can go out and play 
anyone.”
photo by Mike Kelly
Tartans will rely on the press, double-team, and overplay in the passing wing this year.
N ew coach
By NEIL GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffwriter
As fall blends into winter, the leaves 
change and so do CMU’s athletic teams. 
With this newly-found cold weather and 
snow. Tartan basketball has returned with a 
different look.
All eves are upon new coach Larry Ander­
son. Anderson comes from Point Park Col­
lege, where he serves as an assistant to head 
coach Jem Conboy. In his ten years at Point 
Park, .\nderson s squad was an annual par­
ticipant in the playoffs. He is no stranger to 
winning.
.Anderson is a firm believer in a strong 
defense. “I like to press, double-team, and 
overplay the passing wings. The defense 
should be able to score points just like the 
offense, and to do that they’ll have tocausea 
lot of turnovers. I like to score a lot of points, 
but you gotta play good D’ also.”
Anderson is looking to his backcourt duo 
of Greg Gabriel and Pete Bennett to provide 
the necessary leadership.
Gabriel, a 5’9” junior from Uniontown, 
PA, was an Academic All-America choice 
and an honorable mention all-conference 
pick last season. Anderson describes him as 
“a phenomenal shooter with a lot of confi­
dence.” Gabriel averaged 13.6 point per 
game (ppg) last season.
Bennett is a six foot senior and a local pro­
duct. The Central Catholic High School 
graduate averaged 11.4 ppg last year. 
.According to Anderson, “Bennett is an out­
standing shooter and very, very quick.” And­
erson adds, “I doubt there is a better 
backcourt combination in the conference.” 
Juniors Herb Sendek and John Taor­
mina are the leading backups at the guard 
position, along with sophomore letter- 
winner Ray Brennan, labelled “instant 
offense” by Coach Anderson. Sophomores
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY’S 
PHYSICAL EDUCATION REGISTRATION 1
FOR
SPRING SEMESTER
9 a.m. 
1 p.m.
- 12 p.m.
- 4 p.m.
Register in Baker Hall near the Academic Advisory Center 
Or in Skibo Hall near the Student Information Desk

---------------------------------------------------

9
November 15, 1983—The Tartan—Page 15
Intramural report: PIKA to represent CMU in national flag football
By SEAN QUINN 
^ Tartan Staffwriter
To the victor go the spoil s./Die Touch 
Football - Majors champion, PIKA, has 
been selected to participate in the National 
I Collegiate Flag Football Tournament. Dur- 
I ing the Thanksgiving break, PIKA will 
uavel to Ohio State University to participate 
j in the regional competition. If they win the 
I regionals, they will travel to New Orleans,
I the site of the national championship. The 
I final game will be played cm January 2,
I 1984, as a pre-game exhibition to the Sugar 
1- Bowl. The CMU intramural board sends its 
\ best wishes.
As for other IM sports, wrestling will 
begin soon: the entry date is Wednesday,
November 23 and basketball is just around 
the comer. The due date for rosters is Thurs­
day, January 12. Earl Birdy, the IM director, 
urges teams to start getting together now.
Teams are to specify league: majors, inter­
mediates, minors, or women.
SoccerMinMISLW LTMajorsSocrateswLTNasty Nads1 ioJunioWLTSAE II100Phi Kap0 30
PIKA210ICU 3300DU I3 10
GSIA200The Shoutheads110Kickbacks1 0 0
ATO Tide111Coaches All-Stars030Dragains10
ZicoWITTLeft Footers010
ICU 21i0FalcaowLTVolleyball
Gargoyles2l0DTD210
Theta Xi - A1i0Sigma Nu210MajorswLRossiWLTIVCF - Kings Men040Theta Xi20
CM*1203-E Cupid Troopers300GSIA00
SAE -1010Soccer II120T’NUC03
SUPA021LuizinioWLTMudge House13
IntermediatesICU 4121Whiffers20
NASL
Pi Lam200Coaches All-Star21
WLTThe Hung Jury101
ATO II200Theta Xi - B210WomensWL
KE - A310Kusuma030Chi Omega10
ZBT210WomensWLTSUPA - Girls10
ROTC020SA Morewood011Slammers - Heller01
Adrians Team120KKG101Delta Gamma12
cVcV•NLc yNcH gPq
Now, Have A Place to Keep Them.
Elegant Cloth, 
with draw cord, 
Historical Perspective 
and more.
Send $3.95 ea. 
and your printed 
name & address 
for use as a label. 
To: QUIBBLEDICKER 
P.O. Box 7651 
Pittsburgh, PA 15214
FREE CATALOGUE — Send a Self Addressed Stamped Envelope.
CODENOLL Technology Corporation
High technology company seeking Electrical Eng., Mech. 
Eng., Mat. Sci. Eng., Physics and Manufacturing/Industrial 
Eng.
Semiconductors & Microelectronics 
Communications & Information Processing Equipment
1086 North Broadway, Yonkers, New York 10701 
Half Hour Drive from NYC 
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&& 
Interviewing on Campus: December 6, 1983 
or call for interview (914) 965-6300
We are proud to announce that
The Marines College of Music
will occupy splendid new quarters 
on Manhattan's west side in 1984.
Marines students will enjoy:
the only dormitory for conservatory students 
in New York City.
a locotion in the heart of New York's music 
community—walking distance to Lincoln Center.
one of the finest conservatory faculties 
in the world.
Major Fields of Study
1
PHc LFPgNLFC CcLPcV hNV cyUCFPgNLFC PcHPgL8
CHFP/8UFP UCFP/HFP
rnr ByPBAyAULIN
contiu edpag4g
^COURSES 
OFFERED
r— NATIONWIDE
for th*
DECEMBER 3 LSAT 
JANUARY 28 GMAT
including
Camegto-MtMon
• Complete in-class and supplemental materials
• Simulated exam conditions • Limited class size
I 0AT 32-hr begins 11/19 I GMAT Class** now forming 
COURSES COURSES »or the Jan. 28 Exam
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class cdverma 
the LSAT GMAT exams and the Law School Graduate Business School 
admission process, call now
T0U. FREE (800) 223-2618
•r write:The National Center for Educational Testing 
1271 Ave. of the Americas. Suite 777 New ferk.N V 10020
Ensembles m ResidenceThe Gdiimr String Quartet The Dorian Wind Quintet The Mamn Tito
Associate Ensemble The Empire Brass Quintet
PIANO Edward Akiwel Arkady Aronov David Bar-Won Claude Frank »chord Goode
STRINGED 
INSTRUMENTS Nino »eifrig vioim
Eugenia Hyman Lilian KaMr Edith Oppens Marie Powers Josef Rarefi Peter Serkin Nina Swetlonova Mildred Woldman Diane Wolsh
HARPSICHORD Kenneth Cooper Eugenia Earle
ORGAN and CHURCH MUSICFord lOtterstedt Mac Neu Robinson William Whiteheod
TYMPANI and 
PERCUSSIONNorman Grossman Howard Van Hynmg Walter Rosenberger
Violin and Viola Indore Cohen. Votm FeiU Gam*. Voim SMrtey Gtvens Vohn Ani Kovaron. Vioxn Young Uck Kim. Vohn Sony Thomas. vohn Hlroko ¥a#mo Vioiin Paul Doktor. \Ao(o ana Voim John Graham, voia Sol Greitier. Vola Kim KashkaiNon Vota Karen Tuttle. Vota Timothy Eddy, voonceiio Jean Schneider Goberman 
Violoncello Gary Hoflman. Violoncello Paul Tobo». Violoncello Julius Levine Double Bass Homer Mensch Doutée floss
VOICECharles Bressier Thomas Cuitice Peter Elk us Eden Fau*Antonia Lavarne Dan Marek Jan Peerce Judith Roskn Monan Thompson Theodor Uppman
HARPGiona Agostini Lucile Lawrence
WOODWIND and 
BRASSKart Kraber. flute Andrew Lotya flute Thomas Nytenger. flute John Wlon. flute Elaine Douvas. Oboe Mben Cottier. Oboe Ronald Roseman. Oboe Gervose de Peyer. Cwme'David Gfcuer Clannet Peter Simenauer Clarinet Burt Hal. 80s soon ona Contratxnsoo”Harold Goltier Bassoon Leonard llndei. Bassoon Judith LeCiair Bassoon Allen Won. Sanoonone Antonio lervokno flench Horn Römer Delntms ¦ 'encn Tcm Philip Myers trencn Hom Mel Broites. 'fumoe'James Smith, ’rumpet John Wore ’rumoet Per Brevlg, Trombone Vincent PervereHa Trumoet Gitoert Cohen Trombone ana Bass Trombone Donald Harwood. Bass T'ombone Worten Deck. rubo
CLASSICAL GUITAR Leonid Bototme Rosytn Dkjgm ENot Fnk Frederic Hand Sharon Istxn Herbert Levine Michoel Newman Robert Secnst
ORCHESTRA and ORCHESTRAI CONDUCTING1*1. Vtusrc Orecicf
CHORUS and 
CHORAL CONDUCTINGAmy Kaiser Vlusc D*ec'or
MANNES OPERA THEATER 
EARLY MUSIC PROGRAM 
COMPOSITION Chartes Jones David loeb
David Tcimpsdo Frederick Werté
TECHNIQUES 
Of MUSIC EWabeth Aaron Edward AMwe«Tuny Cathey Terry ChampKn Robert Cuckson Douglas Diamond Leo Edwards David Gagne Charles Jones Ford LOierstedt Lorry lotkowski David Loeb Met Me< Meng Wikam Needeiman Frank Nemhouser Mane Powers Feki SaUer Cart Schächter Frederick werte
AUDITION DATES: March 7. 8. 9. 70, 1984 and May 23. 24. 25. 1984 
Scholarships are available. MM. Post-Graduate Diploma, 8 M , Diploma
FOR INFORMATION
Write or call Ms Rena Springer. Director of AdmissionsThe Mannes College of Music • 157 East 74th Street, New York. N Y 10021 • 212-737-0700
GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or 
take the next course FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
CMU finishes over .500 with 100% improvement
By MARIA RIVAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Considering women’s volleyball is not a 
big sport here at CMU, and the fact that the 
Tartans went from twelve players at the 
beginning of the season to only seven by the 
end, it was impressive that CMU finished 
the season with a record of 5-3 in their 
league.
The team ended its season with the 
Pennwood West Conference Championships 
on October 29 at Carlow College.
The team was not in the best of shape 
when they entered the tournament. The day
before the championships Pan drilled the 
team with excercises that involved leg and 
back muscles. Unfortunately, since the girls 
had never worked out in this manner, they 
were exhausted the next day. On top of this, 
Yvonne Fetterman, an important setter, had 
returned late the night before from a trip to 
Washington.
Pan explains that throughout the season 
there was never any time to go through this 
particularly straining drill. He feels that 
next season the team should work with basic 
foot movement to set up a flow among the 
players and improve their transition. Carol 
Lau, a freshman, stated, “It was pretty dumb 
to do the drill before a tournament.” She 
suggested, “We should have harder practices 
fewer times a week to build up endurance.”
Lau’s suggestion brings up a major issue 
among CMU’s athletic teams and the 
coaches. How much can a coach push 
his/her team without feeling guilty that it 
will affect their school work?
Most of the Volleyball team agreed that 
they should have been worked hard at the 
beginning of the ^season instead of waiting 
until the end.
Pan feels that another problem is, “We 
don’t criticize players enough during prac­
tice.” Laura Frissora, team manager, 
believes that the problem is more psycholog­
ical, “the team plays emotionally and they 
don’t use their minds enough.”
The tournament was split up into two 
pools of four teams each. Each team played 
each other twice within their pool. CMU
tied with Bethany for fourth place. CMU lost 
the tiebreaker after catching up from behind 
by eight points.
In the middle of the tournament CMU 
implemented a new game strategy. The stra­
tegy involved using Liz Smith and Karen 
Kmetz playing the middle block position 
then moving out and playing the spiking 
position.. Thus, their talents were utilized 
greatly and the opposing team became 
confused.
Overall the team feels that they improved 
close to 100%. The areas of major improve­
ment included serves, transition, and overall 
team confidence in making a comeback. 
Some skills they will work on next season 
will be their jumping, bumping, and floor 
coverage.
Tartans to compete with strategy
photo by George Spofford
Liz Smith fights for a block.
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffxvritcr
Alas, winter has arrived, and with it, 
sports moves inside. As the CMU women’s 
basketball team bones up for a new season, 
they are preparing for a 21 game sunt 
against Pennwood West and other Division 
I and II schools. With almost twice as many 
players as at the end of last year, this will be a 
fast-breaking, hard-driving, sharp-shooting 
team. Coach Kathy Paczkowski believes that 
with so many talented players they will be 
“very competetive” in their conference and 
tough against traditionally hard to beat Div­
ision II schools.
Defensively, Paczkowski is focusing on a 
pressure man-to-man strategy. With a fairly 
large bench to work with, she plans to 
implement the full-court press often with­
out tiring anyone too much. The ideal 
attack will be to put in a fresh substitute for a 
few minutes and have her run all out on the
pressure defense. Hopefully this will com­
pensate for one of their weakest points, 
namely height or the lack thereof. As Pacz­
kowski noted, all of their opponents have 
“at least” one six-footer, while their tallest is 
5' 9".
Paczkowski anticipates playing a three 
guard offense that will eliminate the center 
position and put an extra player on the 
outside. Unlike last year, when the offense 
was built around Deb Derr’s shooting abil­
ity, this year’s team will have a more bal­
anced distribution of shots. Paczkowski 
notes that “such an arrangement is good 
because it won’t give the opposition a 
chance to key on one player.” She expects 
most of the scoring to come from Captain 
Nancy Bums and juniors Michelle Schlegel 
and Laurie Arendas. Not only experienced 
veterans, these three also have a big leader­
ship role with the team as a whole.
On top of running fast-break drills and
practicing their shots and layups, the play­
ers are also learning boxing out techniques. 
In any given game, obtaining a rebound is a 
key, and the team will make up in speed, 
pressure and getting inside what they can’t 
in height. Paczkowski also expects that two 
other players from last year, Kelly Diffin and 
Nancy Dilulio will see more action. She 
adds that she can’t really predict who else 
will play a lot since all of the newcomers are 
of equal talent.
They have their first scrimmage this 
Thursday, against West Virginia, and the 
pre-season starts on the 29th against Grove 
City. Paczkowski admits that after the first 
few games it will become more obvious who~ 
fits into the system better. The team will also 
participate in the Penn State-Behrend Tour­
nament in Erie on the weekend of December
2. Both coach and players are excited since it 
will be the first time they have gone away 
overnight.
Every year the 
Government 
publishes thousands 
of books. And every 
year the Government 
Printing Office sells 
millions of these 
books to people in the 
know. Now there’s a 
book that tells you 
about the Govern­
ment’s “bestsellers”—but it’s not for 
sale... it’s free!
It’s our new catalog of almost 1,000 
of GPO’s most popular books. Books 
like Infant Care, Merchandising 
Your Job Talents, The Statistical 
Abstract, Starting a Business, The Space Shuttle at Work, How to Select 
a Nursing Homer Voyager at 
Saturn, and Cutting Energy Costs.
This catalog includes books from
< . S. <virtually every 
Government ageney. 
So the subjects 
range from agri­
culture, business, 
children, and diet to 
science, space, 
transportation, and 
vacations. And there 
ar£ titles on military 
history, education, 
hobbies, physical fitness, gardening, 
and much, much more. There’s even 
a special section for recently 
published books.
Find out about the Government’s 
bestsellers. Send today for a copy of 
the book we don’t sell. Write—
LmE CetediO
Post Office Box 37000 
Washington, D.C. 20013
THE NEW INTRAMURAL 
WRESTLING PROGRAM
PICK UP OFFICIAL INTEREST FORMS IN:
— weight room— ‘Schlag A102— I. M. board (gym)or call x4293 for information
Form does not commit you and 
no experience is required.
Ht1oY FIuieo Wnt2
VUP8cVH
New Jersey Out-of- 
Academic Year Programs* Residents State
University of Tours, France $4,565 $5,778
University of Constance, $4,447 $5,778
Germany
University of Florence, $5,145 $6,405
Italy
University of Mexico, $4,457 $5,778
Mexico City
Summer Programs*
University of Tours, France $1,095 $1,195
University of Constance, $1,700 $1,700
Germany
University of Urbino, Italy $1,700 $1,700
University of Salamanca, $1,890 $1,990
Spain or 
University of Coimbra,
Portugal
Graduate Program
M.A. in Italy, one-year study, 
Rome —Florence $5,000
* Fees are subject to change. All programs include 
round-trip transportation (except France) from New 
York, cost of instruction, room and board.
The university does not discriminate on the basis of race, 
color, creed, national origin, age, sex, or physical hand­
icap.
For more information
write to: the stait '82rsîîyc* ntwjERSfvJunior Year Abroad r> ¦ f- rj p
Milledoler Hall, Room 205 j ^ l\. 1
New Brunswick, N.J. 08903

---------------------------------------------------

r
November 15, 1983—The Tartan—Page 17
Members interviewed
Car Sickness turns out dreams with Factory, Inc.
* formally known throughout the Pitts­
burgh area as Carsickness, the band now 
called Dream Factory was interviewed by 
Susan Petrie. The following are excerpts.
Tartan: I’ve heard you guys have an 
album in process — has it been released yet ?
Dream Factory: It’s not a new album. 
We’ve recorded four new tunes, have still to 
record one more, and hope to put out a 
12-inch 45 by March.
player on the upcoming release. His name is 
Benny.
Dream Factory: Plus sometimes we have 
a singer named Katje. She was actually on 
the second album. She was singing with us 
downtown for the gig in Market Square.
Tartan: Ok. Musically, how have you 
changed?
Dream Factory: I think we’re tighter now 
than ever as a unit.
CARSICKNESS, now
Tartan: Does this new material differ 
from the last release?
Dream Factory: Production wise it’s got­
ten better. And, of course, using a new pro­
ducer means a change in sound.
Tartan: And the name of your producer 
is... ?
Dream Factory: Chris Butler.
Tartan: Of The Waitresses? How did 
you manage that one?
Dream Factory: We’d met him when we 
first performed in Pittsburgh a couple years 
ago and he liked our band, he liked us a lot. 
Since he left The Waitresses what he wants 
to do is work with new bands or unsigned 
bands and see if he can help them out. He’s 
doing that in the States and also in Europe 
with a few bands. He just got back from 
Denmark helping young bands there. He’s 
just trying to give us some input.
Tartan: Have you changed personnel 
other than your . . .
Dream Factory: Last January we 
dropped a keyboard player and changed 
sound poeple. This altered the live mix we 
get — and gave us a slightly sparser sound.
Tartan: That’t what I’d heard.
Dream Factory: We have a guest trumpet
DREAM FACTORY
Tartan: Have your influences changed 
over the last year and a half?
Dream Factory: We influence ourselves 
more than anybody. I don’t follow the pop­
ular rock or new wave that closely. I still 
listen to a lot of the early progressive bands 
I’ve always listened to.
Dream Factory: I could go see a brand 
new band that just formed yesterday and 
they might influence me.
Tartan: Where is your favorite place to 
play? Do you have one?
Dream Factory: Canada or CMU. I like 
playing here cause there’s usually good 
sound and there's never been any trouble in 
four years. I guess just colleges, then, —
generally.
Tartan: Back to the influences ... I 
mean, you’ve been playing together for 
three years now . . .
Dream Factory: — going on four —
Dream Factory: — and we’re at that stage 
now where we have our own language and 
the Car Sickness alphabet within the band. 
When we go to write tunes, it’s not that 
we’re influenced by others, it’s like we go 
“Oh, yeah, remember that hook we had two 
years ago, and that drum beat from six 
months ago, and that idea you had two years 
ago.”
Tartan: You brought up a question I’ve 
been wanting to ask you. Why a change in 
your name? Carsickness was so original.
Dream Factory: People automatically 
assumed we were punk or hard-core. Bad 
connotation. With the changes in person­
nel, it seemed natural.
Dream Factory: We’re trying to reach a 
more broad audience. We want to get other 
people involved with the band as an 
audience, such as people that wouldn’t go 
out to see a new-wave band. We don’t con­
sider ourselves a new-wave band.
Tartan: So who came up with Dream 
Factory? Incorporated,” is it?
Dream Factory: We’re not that finished 
with the name. That’s the working title.
Dream Factory: We’re also working on a 
media show as well, to use in the live act.
Tartan: If you had to throw yuourselves 
into a category, or rather your music into a 
category, do you think you could do it and 
excel?
Dream Factory: The dream category.
Tartan: It’s the dream category? What is 
the uniqueness about your music?
Dream Factory: Probably getting the var­
ious styles to coalesce together. A lot of 
melodies.
Dream Factory: WTe have interesting 
rhythms. I think, too, that basically we re all
non-musicians; we’re self-taught. So you 
leam your own style of playing. I mean, 
we’re good at playing our kind of music. We 
couldn’t play Top 40 music or play in other 
people’s bands.
Tartan: So, how did you get the name 
Dream Factory?
Dream Factory: There was a song about 
one year ago with that title. It’s on the TMl 
015 Compilation album. Back when we 
were kids.
Tartan: You’re not kids any longer. 
How old are you?
Dream Factory: I’m 28. I’m the oldest. 
Dream Factory: I’m 26.
Dream Factory: I’m 25.
Dream Factory: Don’s the baby. How 
old’s he?
Dream Factory: He’s 24.
Dream Factory: How old’s Dennis? 
Dream Factory: 33.
Dream Factory: We’re in our twenties. 
Tartan: That whole wave, the fashion 
scene, never caught up with any of you, did 
it?
Dream Factory: I still dress the same as I 
did seven or eight years ago.
Dream Factory: We’re still the worst 
dressed band.
Tartan: Has someone coined you that? 
Dream Factory: No, we did.
Tartan: Do you play in bars often? 
Dream Factory: Unfortunately, yes.
Tartan: Don’t you think, though, to climb 
to the top of the charts you have to do the 
bar bit?
Dream Factory: People say, “Well, you’ve 
been together three years and you haven’t 
made it.” We say, “What do you mean? Our 
one goal was to make it was to make our first 
record, and we did — three years ago.” 
Dream Factory: We brought it down here 
and it got smashed at the radio station.
Dream Factory: It was a big hit (Ha, Ha).
Sales People Needed 
High Commissions 
Work your own hours 
Must furnish own car 
Growth Opportunity 
462-5524
allegheny
reproductive
health
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
ITS HERE TODAY
Look for
UNVgcM A (¦ A / I N I
inyour
college
news­
paper.
•••IN THIS ISSUE!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
U of Pitt's studeo theatre at its best with classics
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
The University of Pittsburgh's Studio 
Theatre hosts a \ariety of productions 
throughout the academic year, usually exer­
cises by its undergraduate or graduate level 
drama department students. 
.£fpr Most recendy, the theater per-
formed two one-act plays, Israel 
Horovitz’ Line and Woody 
Allen’s Death Knocks. This production 
made a fascinating night’s entertainment.
Line, the more powerful of the two, con­
cerns five strangers who meet in a line for an 
unknown event. The action concerns each 
person’s individual attempts to become first 
in the line, leading up to an unexpected and 
bizarre conclusion. Death Knocks follows a 
more traditional, although equally odd, 
plot line: Death arrives to claim Nat Acker­
man, middle-aged businessman. Reluctant 
to go, Nat cons Death into a game of gin 
rummy. The stakes are, of course, a delay of
Nat’s death.
Line was a masterpiece of casting; John 
Lane, David Leite, Wendy Held, Christian 
Gauthier and Joe Comm all seemed bom 
for their parts. This show managed to avoid 
the vast disparities between cast members’ 
abilities common to a lot of small local 
theater. All of the performances were good, 
Leite’s and Held’s particularly. The play’s 
opening, with the cast preparing themselves 
at the edges of the stage area, was an interest­
ing device but played out a litde too long. 
All told, the play ran an hour and fifteen 
minutes, uncommonly long for a one-act, 
but held the audience all the way.
Death Knocks was a little rougher, but 
some of that could be explained by the play’s 
nature. According to director George Che- 
rico, the play was written by Woody Allen in 
about twenty minutes, and was meant to be 
primarily read as opposed to being per­
formed. Still, it was enjoyable, and a good 
opportunity to see one of Allen’s lesser
known stage works. Jim Robinson and 
Lance Skapura casted this play.
The Pitt Studio Theatre puts on a 
number of interesting and well-done pro­
ductions during the school year. Unfortu-
nately, the shows are often poorly advertised J 
outside of the Pitt drama department. If y0u 
can hear of a show there, however, by all 
means attend it; you can count on a night of 
quality entertainment.
Aldo Nova's style as fine on stage as on vinyl
Ui’eut'r Magic Flute et NMmue
The Pittsburgh Opera, under the general 
direction of Tito Capobianco, presents 
Mozart's enchanting fairy’ tale The Magic 
Flute on Thursday, November 17 and Satur­
day, November 19, sung in English. Curtain 
time is 8:00 pm for both Heinz Hall perfor­
mances. The production is directed by Jay 
Lesinger and conductor by James Meena.
The Magic Flute captures fairy tale ingre­
dients: a handsome prince and a beautiful, 
kidnapped princess, an evil Queen, dragons, 
genies, and a magic flute to protect the 
prince on his quest. It is a charming rom­
ance where good triumphs over evil, the 
forces of light triumph over the forces of the 
night, and everyone lives happily ever after.
Mozart’s genius illuminates the score, from 
simple folk tunes to music of awe-inspiring 
beauty.
As a “Singspiel” or “sing play” The 
Magic Flute has spoken dialogue and sung 
arias. The English translation by Andrew 
Porter is witty, tasteful and easily accessible 
to audiences of all ages. It has been used 
successfully in productions at St. Louis, San 
Francisco, Houston, Washington and New 
York City Opera.
Tickets are $25, $24, $19, $13, $10 and $8. 
Family Circle and the Dress Circle are sold 
out. Tickets are available through the Heinz 
Hall box office, or by calling Ticketcharge 
at 392-4900 (Visa/MasterCard accepted).
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Stafficriter
Almost any band can sound good in a 
studio recording. The real test comes in live 
performance — no multiple tracking, no 
overdubs, no retakes, just raw, unprocessed 
music. Some bands fail misera- 
bly in this medium. (Visualize 
Men without Hats or A Flock of 
Seagulls jamming on stage ...) 
Aldo Nova excels.
Two weeks ago, before a packed Stan­
ley Theater the Montreal based singer- 
/songwriter/instrumentalist gave the 
audience an extremely impressive show. 
The music was powerful and tight, the 
musicians capable and at ease, and the 
audience receptive to the point of demand­
ing an encore.
Nova sounds better live than his studio 
material suggests. Because of the energy 
imparted to the live performance, songs 
such as “Monkey on Your Back” and “Hey 
Operator” are very effective. The instrumen­
tal “War Suite” is explosive, and his biggest 
hit to date, “Fantasy”, is far superior to the 
album version. And the emotion and depth 
in “Paradise” are captivating.
Subject — Aldo Nova is the name of his 
new album, and the “I am a Subject” tour is 
undoubtedly its best advertisement. About 
two-thirds of the material is from the new 
album, and those who purchase it after see­
ing the show may be somewhat let down 
because it is noticeably better live.
Subject is roughly thematic, making its 
points by sharply contrasting reality and 
fantasy. “Armageddon” introduces the sub­
jective fantastic element: “For I am the sub- 
ject/A subject of your imagination.’’ It 
segues to the abruptly realistic “Monkey on 
Your Back”, a streetwise look at heroin 
addiction.
The most interesting experiment is 
“Africa (Primal Love)” and “Hold Back the 
Night.” “Africa” leads off the duo with its 
primordial atmosphere and good bass line 
(played by Neal Jason).
Out of place are “Always Be Mine” and 
“All Night Long.” “Always Be Mine” 
doesn’t measure up to the standards set by 
the album’s other ballad, “Victim of a 
Broken Heart,” nor by “Ball and Chain” 
(from Aldo Nova). “All Night Long,” in 
addition to having an overused title, has an 
overly pop sound and seems grossly out of 
line with the rest of the album.
Aldo Nova is not the most brilliant young 
star to come along in years. His vocals are 
unique and unpretentious but not by any 
standards outstanding, and some of his best 
instrumentals come from his band, espe­
cially guitarist Kevin Carlson (who looks 
and acts like Eddie Van Halen). His studio 
work is very good, but his live show easily 
surpasses that of many established bands.
»
SPRING SEMESTER 1984 REGISTRATION
Registration for the Spring Semester 1984 has been scheduled for November 16 and 17,1983. Freshmen in CYT and MCS will 
receive separate registration instructions from Dean Kail and will not register at this time. All other students, graduate and 
undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they wish to be on the rolls for the Spring Semester. If you will not be returning 
for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly marked for Spring 1984) with your department. If you 
are studying off campus, or for some other reason cannot register on November 16 or 17, ask your advisor to process a registration for 
you or call the Registrar’s Office for special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet will be available after November 4, inside the main entrance to Baker Hall and the Information Desk 
at Skibo. The Class Schedule contains a list of the courses which will be offered next semester, the schedule and classrooms for each, 
the instructor’s name, and complete instructions for registration. Please obtain one and carefully read and follow the instructions 
contained in it.
A single registration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used for registration. It will 
provide and additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic information on file for you and provide aform on 
which to list and have approved your program for the coming semester.
l.Pick-up your R3D Form from your department and correct the demographic information. (Forms 
for H&SS freshmen and sophomores will be available in the H&SS Advisory Center). 
2*Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved.
3.Between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on November 16 or 17 go to each department teaching the courses 
in which you wish to register to obtain registration approval.
4*After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D Form to your department. You keep the last (yellow)
copy.
If you need further information or assistance^ please call the Office of the Registrar, 578-2004.

---------------------------------------------------

F44i14fm“m4trp
classifieds
jjelp Wanted: Part-time position available for 
college student to represent travel company on 
VampuS- ^am comm*ssi°n’ free travel and work 
experience. Contact Beachcomber* Tours, Inc., 
¡325 Millersport Highway, Williamsville, NY 
14221 (716) 632-3723.
Typing Word Processing — Reasonable and 
professional. Fast, efficient, excellent results. 
Theses, dissertations, RESUMES. We stricdy fol­
low any format required. Confidential. Results 
guaranteed. Private word processing classes. 
Only a few minutes from campus. Free disk stor­
age. Phone: 836-4923. Answers 24 hours.
Resumes — Does your resume Sell You to poten­
tial employers? We professionally prepare 
resumes designed to get results. Packages availa­
ble — resume, cover letter, copies, regular updat­
ing. $20-75. 941-8598.
JOBS OVERSEAS M/E (Including Australia, 
South Pacific, Europe, Africa, Alaska, Cruise 
Ships, Airlines). All Occupations. Temporary 
and Full Time. $20,000 to $60,000. Call Now! 
206-736-5103 Ext. 145.
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ­
ing ‘state of the art’ digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso­
nable fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786. 
For Sale - Pentax Spotmatic SPII, Vivatar 85-205 
close focusing auto zoom lens, minolta electro­
flash 20, and camera bag — $125, evenings 488- 
6016.
Automated Words Word Processing Services. 
University Papers, Technical Writing, Resumes, 
Quick turnaround — STUDENT RATES 751-
3141.
For Sale: Two 45° paste-up banks. 26"*84" work 
surface. Pegboard and full-width pencil tray. 42" 
front, 60" back. Walnut grain. 3-yrs-old. Very 
good condition. Asking $100 each. Call Gregg 
do The Tartan at 578-2111.
Typing/Word Processing Theses, term papers, 
manuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
and Turabian manuals strongly followed) Spe­
cializes in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour 
service 371-3657.
Women: are you an Academic Bag Lady? Over 
25, in school, new career? Meet over lunch 12-1 
Thursdays, Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes. 682-6886.
Housemate needed for a beautiful spacious home 
near CMU on Inverness Street. Professional or 
graduate student. 682-3860 or 621-4624.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca­
demic. Papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Moving, Moving, Moving! Have been moving 
students since 1977. Call Second Mile Light 
Hauling ask for Vince 231-2766.
Roman Catholic Mass: Sunday Mass: 10:30 a.m. 
on Sunday morning, and 7 p.m. on Sat. evening 
in Hunt Multipurpose Room. Daily Mass at 
12:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 39 Monday thru 
Friday.
Highland Park, Efficiency, Furnished, $220.00 
includes all utilities, 3rd, wall to wall, air condid- 
oned, garage, January 1, quiet single person, no 
pets. Call 362-6167 after 5 or weekends.
No coincidence: we’ve been serving Squirrel Hill 
area for 4'/i years. Minute-maid Services. For the 
best in maids. 682-3860.
BULLETIN BOARD for sale. Glass enclosed, 
hardly used. Best offer. Counseling Center 578- 
2922.
Calculus Tutor Needed Immediately for H. S.
student. Call after 6 p.m. 362-6619.
Artist Part-time: specialize in graphics for college
designs used on athletic apparel and t-shirts. Call QG VlGia I
243-7755. -----------------------
Diane’s Secretarial Service. Resumes, academic, 
business, and personal typing. Pick up and deliv­
ery available. 464-1618.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Sales People Needed High commissions. Work 
your own hours. Must furnish own car. Growth 
opportunity. 462-5524.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U. 
S. Government? Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 Ext. 3401-A
Jacqueline’s Secretarial Services — Dissertations, 
manuscripts, books. Professional work done 
quickly and accurately. $l/page 372-1376.
Professional typing: reasonable rates, quick tur­
naround, pickup and delivery. Shirley 672-0683.
Happy Birthday Rob! Love and stuff, YLF.
Fred Rogers, vice president for business affairs,
will be having open office hours on Friday, 
November 18 between 3 and 5 p.m., in his office, 
613 Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet 
with Mr. Rogers should telephone his office, 578- 
2991, to set up an appointment.
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine will have open office hours for stu­
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Wednesday, November 23,1983. 
Students who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine 
should telephone his office, 578-2056, to set up an 
appointment.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu­
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Room 11, Skibo. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESEC’s international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
Poetry Contest A $1,000 grand prize will be 
offered in a poetry contest sponsored by the 
World of Poetry newsletter. There are an addi­
tional 99 prizes worth over $10,000. For a free 
brochure of rules and prizes write, World of Poe­
try, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. P, Sacramento, 
California 95817.
The office of Professor Fougeres has been moved 
to BH 228D. The students who take Self-Paced 
French, 82-103, will meet now in Margaret Morri­
son 408 instead of in Baker Hall 232F, which is in 
the process of getting demolished and then 
rebuilt for other purposes. Every once in a while 
please also look at the BBOARD “82-103,” where 
you may find various kinds of announcements, 
warnings, tips, etc., relating to the course 82-103.
Oakland Review, CMU’s literary magazine, is 
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, 
one-act plays, black : white drawings, prints, : 
photography, for its 1984 edition. All writing 
submissions should include a cover sheet, and 
may be placed at Skibo Info Desk c/o Editor, 
Oakland Review. Art submissions may be placed 
there, or at Rm. 302, College of Fine Arts. Dead­
line is February 1,1984. Questions: call the Edi­
tor, x4466.
The Pittsburgh Association for the Arts in Educa­
tion and Therapy invites you to attend their first 
general membership program entided “Theater 
Games”, presented by Fran Fettman on Thurs­
day, November 17 at 7:30 p.m. at the Zionist 
Youth Commission, 6328 Forbes Avenue near 
Shady in Squirrel Hill. Ms. Fettman is a doctoral 
candidate in Educational Psychology at the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. If you have any questions 
about the progaram of PAAET, please call 824- 
9835.
Sharing in Thanksgiving: Bring canned and 
non-perishable goods to the Thanksgiving Mass 
on the Feast of Christ the King, Sunday morning, 
Nov. 20, at 10:30 a.m. in Hunt Multipurpose 
Room. Collection is for the poor and needy. 
Please be generous.
In this well-researched and 
richly illustrated book and in 
the major television series of 
the same title, Mr. Gadney, 
who has researched the 
Kennedys for many years, 
scrupulously and accurately 
tells the story of JFK’s 
thousand-day Presidency.
Kennedy, as this remarka­
ble book reveals, occupied a 
special moment in American 
history. His wit and style and 
movie-star good looks pro­
vided the inspiration that 
made Americans, young and 
old, Republican and Demo­
crat alike, extend themselves 
to accept his challenge: “Ask 
not what your country can do 
for you, ask what you can do 
for your country.”
$16.95
C1rti“ ymrnO4mo HenurtYdmrthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leav* 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED '
TVcCgHgNL
HFgVCUP
LN
FTTNgLPUcLP
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
emu bookstore
IN BAKER HALL
lFL• CcL8PHs 
$12J0
(WASH-CUT-MLOW-STYLE)
$25.00
CNCNV
Wed. 1*7
Thun., Fri. 1*9 
TheN
257
LN FTTNgLPUcLPH 
ULgHcX HFyd HFCNL
CALL 97S-M21CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCf
HKW& 4&F

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—November 15, 1983
Life education seminar with Paul Francis has 
been rescheduled for tonight, Nov. 15 at 7 p.m. in 
Doherty Hall 1112. Paul Francis is the vice- 
president of Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers, 
AFL-CIO and a founder of Educators for 
Human Life as well as an excellent speaker. Eve­
ryone is welcome. Call 578-4826 (Terry) for more 
info. Sponsored by CMU Association for Life.
Pro-Life Bake Sale: to support the CMlT Associa­
uon for Life. We will be selling great home-made 
cookies in the entrances to MOREWOOD and 
DONNER. Look for us this Friday, Nov. 18.
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion 
group that meets on Monday nights at 9, in 
Room 39, Skibo. We are a nondenominational 
group. We look at subjects and situations that 
affect campus life, directly from the Bible. Stop 
by, and feel free to bring a friend with you. If you 
want more information, call either (441-0819) or 
(361-5632), and ask for John.
DEUTSCHER STAMMTISCH, Thursdays, 
German Language Table, noon. Morewood 
Dining Room. Students, Faculty, Staff welcome. 
Sponsored by European Studies and Modem 
Language Programs.
Anyone that wishes to see Japanese ouereu ai 
CMLT and is interested in taking the course 
should sign the petition on the Student Senate 
office door, Skibo 59.
LA TABLE FRANÇAISE, Tuesdays. French 
Language Table, noon. Morewood Dining 
Room. Students. Faculty, Staff welcome. Spon­
sored by European Studies and Modem Lan­
guage Programs.
The deadline for Homecoming T-shirt orders
will be November 18. Send orders to the Alumni 
Office, 505 Warner Hall. T-shirts are $5.
Roman Catholic Undergraduate program con­
tinues. This Wed. with Mass startin at 8 p.m. at 
the Oratory and followed by a free buffet dinner. 
Discussion afterwards on “ADVENT: What is 
its Liturgical Meaning?” Meet at 5:30 at Tech 
House for walk up to the Oratory'. Call 621-2911 
for info.
Been to confession lately? Its never too late to go 
again, you know. See one of the priests at 1:00 
p.m. Monday thru Friday in Skibo 39 (Catch 
them after the Daily Mass) or call the Orators' at 
681-3181 for an appointment.
Attention Volleyball players (especially males): 
Whoever wishes to play non-backyard, picnic, 
holiday, summer, beach volleyball is welcome to 
come to volleyball practice Thursday nights 7-9 
p.m. in the Women’s Gym. “Don’t expect sym­
pathy from us ... be ready for hard work.”
The CMU Investment Group meets every Thurs­
day at 6:30 in Skibo room 11. All interested peo­
ple are welcome.
Tech House: CMU’s on-campus Catholic co-op 
is looking for men and women interested in liv­
ing in a unique community this coming spring 
semester. Call 621-2911 as soon as possible or stop 
by, we’re right next to Donner Hall.
Events.
The Winchester-Thurston School is staging its 
Jail production of Jacques Brel Is Alive and Well 
and Living in Paris on Thursday through Satur­
day, November 17-19. Admission in FREE and 
the performances will begin at 6 p.m. in the 
school auditorium on Ellsworth Avenue.
University Choir will perform November 17 at 
8:00 p.m. Alumni Concert Hall.
The photographs of Mr. David Kelly will be 
exhibited in the gallery at Pittsburgh Film- 
Makers, 205 Oakland Avenue from November 7 
through November 30. The hours of the gallery 
are Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 
Saturday 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. and before film screen­
ings, 7:30 to 6 p.m.
This program is funded in part by the National 
Endowment for the Arts, the Pittsburgh Founda­
tion, and the Howard Heinz Endowment.
For more information call 681-5449.
The Men’s Glee Club of the University of p;tts 
burgh will present its 94th annual fall concert 
with the University Women’s Choral Ensemble 
Tuesday, November 15, 8:30 p.m. in the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium. Admission is complimen­
tary. A wide variety of selections will be per. 
formed including barbershop, spiritural 
American musical songs, classical, contemporary 
and traditional works. For further details, call the 
Pitt Music Department at 624-4126.
Tuesday Night Reading Series at 8:30 o.m. The 
Back Room of Hemingway’s (formerly Gus- 
tine’s) on 3911 Forbes Avenue. — Featuring- 
: Nov. 15 — James Gyure (poetry), Hilary
Masters (CMU) (fiction).
The Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the 
direction of Paul Weber, will sing music dedi­
cated to St. Nicholas at St. Nicholas Church, 1326 
East Ohio St., Northside, on Sunday, Dec. 4, at 3 
p.m.
In addition to the choral works, the program will 
feature a short talk on the significant features of 
architect Fredrick Sauer’s St. Nicholas Church, 
which was recognized by the Pittsburgh History 
and Landmarks Foundation in 1976 as an his­
toric and cultural landmark. The church was the 
first Croatian Roman Catholic parish in 
America.
Admission for the Dec. 4 concert is $5. For infor­
mation call 561-5343.
Nothing Else Feels Like Navy Flying.
The thunderous roar 
of jet engines rolls 
across the carrier’s 
flight deck.
Throttles are at 
full power, and you’re 
waiting for the signal 
to launch.
Now. The catapult fires. G forces 
press you back into your seat. Suddenly, 
you’re flying low and fast over the open 
sea. Zero to 150 in 2.5 seconds.
Nothing else feels like Navy flying. 
Nothing. And when you become a pilot or 
flight officer you’re at the very heart of it.
Once you’ve earned your wings, 
the Navy puts you in full control of a multi- 
million-dollar supersophisticated 
combination of jet aircraft and electronic 
wizardry.
And Navy training makes sure 
you’re up to the challenge. Rigorous flight
training gives you the ,______________________
navigation, aerodynam­
ics and other techni­
cal know-how you need.
Leadership and 
professional schooling 
prepare you for the
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 346
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becom­
ing a member of the Naval Aviation Tfeam. (0A)
Name.
Address.
immediate decision-
I
City.
Age_
State.
$Year in College. 
AM ajor/ M inor__
. tCollege/ U ni versity__
________?GPA.
making authority and 
management respon­
sibility you have as an 
officer in the Navy.
On the ground, as 
a Navy officer, you 
work with and supervise 
today’s most highly 
skilled aviation professionals. In the air, 
as part of the naval aviation team, you 
have about the most exciting job anyone 
can have.
It’s a uniquely rewarding job with 
pay to match. You start at $18,300 a year 
—more than the average corporation 
pays you just out of college. After four 
years, with regular Navy promotions 
and pay increases, your annual salary 
climbs to $31,100. That’s over and above 
a full package of benefits and privileges.
Find out how much more a job in 
naval aviation has to offer. Fill in the
__________________coupon. No other job
gives you the kind of 
leadership experience 
or fast responsibility 
you get as part of the 
naval aviation team. 
And nothing else feels 
like Navy flying.
(Please Print) Last
____________Apt. #_____
-Zip_
Phone Number.Best Time to Call
L
(Area Code IgThia is for general recruitment information. You do not have to furnish any of the information requested Of courae, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi­tions for which you qualify. j
NavyOfficers Get Responsibility Fast.
