The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.Wednesday, June 2, 1943
Two New Lieutenants 
Arrive at Carnegie As 
A. S. T. P. Instructors
Two new officers—Second Lieu­
tenant Charles S. Seidel and Second 
Lieutenant Glenn E. Pickrel—re­
cently reported at Carnegie Tech as 
instructors for the Army Specialized 
Training Program.
Lieutenant Pickrel arrived on 
the Tech campus May 20 from Fort 
Belvoir, Virginia, and at present is 
instructing the 400-odd soldiers in 
military tactics. Seidel, a classifi­
cation officer in the new unit, was 
formerly at Tampa, Florida. These 
two men will be followed by addi­
tional Army training officers when 
the balance of the soldier-student 
unit arrives on the campus.
Pittsburgh is Seidel’s old stamp­
ing grounds, inasmuch as he is a 
graduate of the University of Pitts­
burgh. After his graduation, Seidel 
was awarded his Masters degree at 
Columbia University and at present 
is working on his dissertation. He 
has had graduate study in college 
administration and personnel and 
was at one time assistant director 
of admissions at Lehigh University.
Before the extension of the Sino- 
Japanese war theater, Seidel was 
an instructor in the English lang­
uage at Lingan University in Can­
ton, China. After his course in 
OCS, Seidel attended Adjutant Gen­
eral’s school at Fort Washington, 
Maryland, where he obtained the 
necessary classification instruction 
to qualify him for his position here.
Lieutenant Pickrel entered the 
U. S. Army as a buck private two 
continued on page 2
ASTP Students Favor 
Sports, Publications
The results of a survey which was 
made among the ASTP students to 
determine in what activities their 
interests lie, showed that approx­
imately 300 were interested in the 
intramural program, 100 in publica­
tions, 90 in the Glee Club, and 30 
in the Kiltie Band.
Many of Tech’s normal extra­
curricular activities will continue 
throughout the summer season. 
Publications, intramural sports, and 
the Glee Club will definitely con­
tinue, though it is doubtful that the 
Kiltie Band will function because 
of a shortage of musicians.
The Glee Club will begin practice 
as soon as the services of a con­
ductor are secured, and an an­
nouncement will be made concern­
ing the first practice. Anyone in­
terested in Publications will find 
the “Welcome Mat” by the doors of 
the Scottie and Tartan offices in the 
Union every Friday afternoon. In­
tramural Sports will begin Wednes­
day afternoon. Games of softball 
will be played between soldiers and 
civilians and these promise to be 
very worthwhile to watch.
Most students in the past have 
shown very little interest in extra- 
cular activities and have left this 
important phase of our educational 
system to their more ambitious col­
leagues.
Pvts. Bill Byrnes, Lawrence Futchik, and Charles Fairchild, the 
Army’s representatives on ACAC.
Many Grads Employed 
In Vital War Research 
Services Claim Others
Just like a factory which has to 
deliver its goods on time, Carnegie 
Tech has Quickened its pace to de­
liver trained men and women to the 
country’s aid. Proof of this state­
ment is the fact that fifty-two per 
cent of those students who gradu­
ated from the engineering college 
in December have entered into the 
nation’s armed forces, and the re­
mainder are working in essential 
war industries.
Of the men who are employed in 
war industries, over one-fourth of 
them work in the field of airplane 
production. A slightly smaller per­
centage of the graduating class is 
employed in the manufacture of 
chemical and allied products. Other 
graduates are aiding in the produc­
tion of electrical equipment, steel, 
and non-ferrous metals.
While the Carnegie graduates are 
being employed in the many fields 
of industry, they are further spec- 
ailizing in different brances. 
Most of them carry on re­
search work. Other specialized 
fields in which the graduates work 
are: operations, general engineer­
ing, and drafting and design. The 
average starting salary for these 
men was $169 a month.
Girls, too, are very much in de­
mand in the field of science and as a 
result, many of the girls who grad­
uated with a general science degree 
from Margaret Morrison College are 
doing chemical research for the na­
tion’s industries. Women graduates 
who majored in food courses and 
also those who studied secretarial 
work are contributing to the coun­
try’s future victory.
Upon graduation approximately 
nine-tenths of the graduating en­
gineers gain employment through 
Mr. Wangeman’s office. When each 
engineering student enters his senior 
year, he is interviewed by a mem­
ber of the Carnegie Tech faculty 
who tries to ascertain in what type 
of work the student is interested. 
Soon afterwards, the students may 
have interviews with representa­
tives of many different industrial 
firms, and will be offered jobs ac­
cording to their respective abilities.
2>4,. IdJatki+tA
Visit To Kansas 
Proves Valuable
Perhaps the oddest experience in 
the colorful career of Dr. Charles 
Watkins is the one that concerns 
his recent stay at Fort Leavenworth, 
for educational purposes, of course. 
From the happy halls of Margaret 
Morrison College, to the grim walls 
of Leavenworth, went the genial, 
mild-mannered dean.
Designated by Dr. Dougherty to 
represent the field of teaching at a 
month’s course given by the war de­
partment, Dean Watkins left for 
Leavenworth to attend the special 
sessions, regularly given only to pro­
fessional soldiers with a rank above 
that of a captain. The purpose of 
the four weeks’ course was to give 
a selected group of civilians a bird’s 
eye view of the difficulties which 
confront the army in problems of 
transportation and troop movement. 
The class was the fourth of its kind, 
consisting of eighty men from all 
branches of professional and busi­
ness life. There were doctors, law­
yers, newspapermen, priests, bank­
ers, executives from the Coca-Cola 
corporation, a clothing man, a cot­
tonseed oil refiner, a life insurance 
executive, and a geologist. This 
group of chosen men will gain a 
clearer concept of the tremendous 
task confronting the army. They 
are to transmit their instruction in 
turn to larger groups of civilians.
The doctor arrived at Leaven­
worth one o’clock in the morning 
and was met by a Japanese soldier 
in a station wagon. He was con­
ducted to the barracks at Leaven­
worth, much perplexed, however, 
by the appearance of his Japanese 
chauffeur. It was found out later 
that there were many loyal Japanese 
soldiers in the American army, do­
ing such menial tasks as driving and 
serving at mess. Leavenworth itself 
hardly has the appearance of a fort. 
There are no guns in evidence, nor 
any troops drilling or parading.
The men taking the course, most 
of them over forty years of age, 
planned to cut classes frequently 
and thought the course would be 
very enjoyable. The men, however, 
were mistaken. Colonel Sweeny, 
Continued on page 4
Soldier Members 
Chosen For ACAC
In line with the purpose of the 
Army-Civilian Activities Coun­
cil, three temporary Army repre­
sentatives have been chosen to pre­
sent the Army’s view on Intraschool 
activities. The three men chosen 
are Pvt. William Holland Byrnes, 
Pvt. Charles M. Fairchild, and Pvt. 
Lawrence John Futchik. They 
were among the ten men selected 
by the Commanding Officers, and 
they then voted among themselves 
to choose the three temporary rep­
resentatives. In the near future a 
general election will be held 
amongst the Soldiers in the ASTP 
to elect the permanent represta- 
tives to the Council.
Each of the three men were 
chosen to represent the Army in a 
different field of Activity. Pvt. 
Byrnes is in charge of Publications; 
Pvt. Fairchild is in charge of Ath­
letic; and Pvt. Futchik is a repre­
sentative-at-large (he has charge 
of any activities not covered by the 
first two representatives).
The selection of these men as 
representatives was based on their 
past experience in the fields they 
are assigned to. Pvt. Byrnes was 
editor of his Teaneck High School 
newspaper and also specialized in 
Journalism at Washington and Lee 
College, where he spent one and a 
half years before entering the Army. 
Pvt. Fairchild, a cadet Platoon 
Leader in the ASTP course here, 
went from Roanoke High School to 
the University of North Carolina, 
where he finished two years of a 
Commercial Course before entering 
the Army in November 1942. While 
at college, he devoted most of his 
extra-curricular energy improving 
North Carolina’s Track, Basketball, 
and Baseball teams by his presence 
in their Squads. Pvt. Futchik, a 
cadet Company Commander, hails 
from Sault Saint Marie, Michigan. 
In school he participated in tennis 
and swimming. He also worked for 
some time in the composing room 
of Sault News Printing Co. Thus, 
by virtue of his varied career before 
entering the army in July 1942, he is 
well fitted for the position of rep­
resentative at large.
These men, speaking for the de­
sires of the majority of the ASTP 
Group at Tech, will suggest the for­
mulation of a regular program of 
stag and mixed couple affairs. Pos­
sible activities mentioned for inclu­
sion in the program are smokers, 
aances, frankfurters roasts. A 
sports program has already 
been arranged, and the base­
ball tournament will start Monday.
Any soldiers who wish to offer 
any help in arranging a suitable 
program should get in touch with 
either Pvt. Byrnes, Pvt. Futchik, 
or Pvt. Fairchild. They want to rep­
resent all the men and will appre­
ciate any suggestions.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, June 2, 1943
Cditoak AnmcUcU*.
Ideas For The Social Calendar
General opinion of AST boys—they’re good fellows; we like them; and 
we want them to like us. Of course we were all disappointed that more 
of you soldiers couldn’t come to the ACAC dance Saturday night in This­
tle, which, incidentally, would have been a bigger success if the unusual 
ratio of two girls to every man had not been so obvious.
But not to be discouraged, we saw in this affair innumerable possibil­
ities for an extensive summer social program. There is no shortage of 
women and the man power could be overwhelming. With the aid of enter­
prising Mary Ann Rial and her ACAC social committee or under the spon­
sorship of one of the still active women’s organizations, we could lessen the 
strain of homework and humidity by starting now to plan for a memorable 
summer.
Since expediting seems to be the keynote everywhere these days, why 
not expedite the social program too? We would like to see Junior Prom 
held some time this summer with a name band and all the trimmings. Too 
many students will miss one of the best dances this year if it is held at its 
usual time in February. Forget about crowning a Snow Queen. Make the 
loveliest lady on campus a Victory Queen and crown her under the stars. 
Sounds fantastic, but undeniably attractive. Why prevent students at­
tending the accelerated sessions from having a good time just because they 
happen to be spending a large portion of their college days at Carnegie 
Tech during the torrid months?
Spring Carnival has long been a high point in our social program. For 
the past few years, it has lost a bit of its spark and gaiety because of the 
war. About two years ago Mike Bosack instigated a Fall Carnival, which 
was comparatively successful and it comes to our mind that the father of 
this idea was thinking of pacifying December graduates when he xploited 
his brain child. Let the Fall and Spring Carnivals take care of them­
selves; we like more temporal planning such as: a Carnival concentrated 
into one day with outdoor booths and street dancing on a Saturday after­
noon sponsored by Women’s Guild and a big cavorting spree Saturday 
night sponsored by Intersorority Council.
The Guild always has an annual bazaar dance to raise money for 
scholarships. Last year the income of this very worth-while organization 
was sadly diminished; for it was compelled to have its affair during the 
most confused social season in the history of Carnegie. The gallant at­
tempts of its members were preceeded and followed by equally important 
proms and balls, that were unwisely competing for patrons because of the 
proximity of dates. So push up this affair, we say, to a time when every­
body will welcome it as the novel, entertaining occasion it is. And anyone 
who remembers the ’41 Spring Carnival can vouch for the fun of a cleverly 
arranged street dance. The Saturday night jamboree would give Inter- 
soroity Council and its many senior secretarial members an opportunity to 
prove themselves before graduating in December. They will certainly 
have passed up a marvelous chance if Council doesn’t start to function 
until the Fall term begins.
And then on a smaller scale—how about sanding the women’s tennis 
court for occasional informal dances. Pi Tau Pi Sigma did it last sum­
mer. Interhonorary Council could do it this summer.
When new freshmen come to our campus, upperclassmen try to 
make them feel more at home with smokers and beer parties. Through 
these stags the boys meet their fellow students and become acquainted 
with the traditional and non-traditional at Carnegie Tech, in the same way 
there could be a medium through which soldiers and civilian boys could 
meet. So take note, civilians, you might want someone to do the same for 
you one day.
We’ve had our say, but before signing 30 to this editorial, we want to 
express our hope that the above suggestions will not have been stated in 
vain. Take them for what they are—simplify them, expand them, but for 
Carnegie’s sake, don’t discard them.
_________________________________________________H. A.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Cfcrnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
«NTID FOR N4
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison An. New York. n. Y.
Msto« • Los Maiui • Sa« fmmcisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief..............................HI. 7093
Business Manager.......................SC. 8951
Entered T teconA-clssa matter In tbe Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 187V. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-In-Chief.......................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager..............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors................................................................Helena Aronson, Walt Darby
Sports Editor.............................................................................................................John Lindberg
Asst. Business Manager.................................................................................................Merle Wolff
Advertising Manager ........................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation...............................................................................................................Chester Feinberg
Junior Editors___Aron Beck, Marty Gross, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb
Sports Staff ............................... Al Neleson, Chuck Peterson, Bill Perkins, Joe Dogan
Business Staff...................Bob Charpie, Ed Von Halle, John Krummell, Bill Watkins
Reporters: Gerald Brickman, John Murray, Pvt. Bernard Marcus, Pvt. Bill Byrnes, 
Tom Farrahey. Seymor Corwin, Con Corey, Marshall Nurenberg. Walter Ell­
man, Helen Cummings.
Typists.................................................................................................Ruth Means, Gean Baber
one of the girls
She comes from a long line of tall 
people, this long-legged, dark-eyed 
girl. When she decided to get her­
self a “practical” education and left 
Seton Hill for Tech in her sopho­
more year, she broke a family tra­
dition. Her two sisters went to 
Seton Hill and her thrfee brothers to 
Notre Dame. Needless to say, Judy 
il four-quarters Irish, and loves it!
She has done more in "the time 
that she has been here than most 
people do in four or five years; she 
is President of Mortar Board, a, 
member of Gamma Phi Sigma, Phi 
Kappa Phi, Pi Delta Epsilon, 
and the Glee Club. She has 
been dormitory house president 
twice, Cypress her Junior year, and 
now. Whitfield, senior dorm, as well 
as a member of Women’s Dorm 
Council. Last year Judy was assist­
ant secretary to Student Council, 
In her sophomore year she started to 
work on the Bagpiper and soon be­
came Editor; in her junior year 
Judy was a maid of honor in the 
Junior Prom Queen’s court. Whew!
Because of the 4. factors, her chief 
dread is being considered a grind, 
but with her activities, eight hours 
of sleep every night (She goes to 
bed at 10:30 according to her room­
mate) and an afternoon nap, she 
doesn’t have time to grind; in fact 
she doesn’t even have time to open a 
book. To tell the truth, Judy con­
siders studying an extra-curricular 
activity.
Flowers, artificial or real, are a 
mania with her; the bigger, bright­
er, and splashier the flowers are, the 
better she likes them and the more 
she puts in her hair; sometimes you 
can’t see her hair. The biggest 
surprise of her life was getting two 
orchids in the middle of the week 
when there was no reason for it— 
she says there was ho reason. Talk­
ing to Gary Cooper in Beverly Hills 
was the most exciting thing that 
ever happened to her; she loves 
people and loves to talk to them so 
when she saw Mr. Cooper she walk­
ed up to him and just started to 
talk.
Judy says she much prefers in-
New Officers • •.
Continued from page 1 
years ago. After completing his 
basic training at Fort Leonard 
Wood, Missouri, he served from 
September, 1941, to March, 1942, 
with the 47th Engineers in both 
California and Hawaii. During his 
service with the Army at Hawaii, 
Pickrel was one of the U. S. sol­
diers who rounded up Japanese fifth 
columnists.
After the completion of his train­
ing at Officer’s Candidate School in 
Fort Belvoir, Virginia, Pickrel was 
a company officer with the 94th En­
gineers at Fort Custer, Michigan, 
and Fort Dix, New Jersey. From 
February of this year until the pres­
ent, he was assistant training super­
visor in S-3 Headquarters at Fort 
Belvoir.
In civilian life Pickrel graduated 
from the University of Nebraska 
and was an instructor in mathemat­
ics at his home town high school. 
During this time he was also coach 
of the school’s football, t .11,
and track team.
Judy Skeehan
formal entertainment to the stiff 
formal variety. Roller coasters are
JUDY SKEEHAN
a favorite with her; and she loves 
to go walking in Schenley Park, 
smelling the flowers like Ferdinand, 
and that “ain’t no Bull.” She loves 
anything chocolate; red intrigues 
her; and wearing high heels is an 
obsession.
As far as men are concerned, 
Judy’s for ’em! She prefers them 
tall, dark, and handsome, or tall and 
dark, or just plain tall. Then, too, 
she enjoys eating at the Pi K A 
house; in fact, she couldn’t think of 
a thing about the Pi K A house that 
she didn’t like.
Fraternity Pledges
p.w.
R.
H.
S.
M.
L.
M.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Culver J. Ustabashief
Knoell T. Wylie
Beta Sigma Rho
Abelson 
Cooper 
Berez 
Festenstein 
Kettler 
Gross
J. Vertman 
H. Cooper 
M. Neuremberg 
C. Levy 
W. Ellman 
A. Landay
G. 
S.
D.
H.
E. 
M.
D.
W.
J. Gottlieb 
Tau Delta Phi
Brickman
Cohen
Gottesman
Gottesman
Lowenstein
Perloff
R. Shapiro 
W. Sherb 
S. Smith 
M. Zanger 
A. Yorkin 
R. Sugarman
Kappa Sigma
Harris V. Schwartz
Margraf J. Montague
J. Moore 
Theta Xi 
J. DeMay A. Sheib
L. Bright T. Caridis
A. Toppeto T. Barnhart
A. Olejarz B. Zoller
L. Umbach 
Delta Tau Delta 
R. Charpie E. Sandberg
W. Gorog T. Farrahy
T. Gazda D. Walton
R. Harlow T. Jacobson
W. Watkins A. Waslohn
R. Steffee L. Wahrenburg
J. Landau A. Kuentz
E. Mash C. Hussey
W. McShane W. Beck
Phi Kappa 
R. Simon 
Beta Theta Phi 
Naylor T. Hurst
Davis R. Ambrose
Delta Upsilon 
A. Bergland 
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Dunsm#or J. Bowen
A.
M.
R.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, June 2, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTANS
A.S.T.P. Member Gives Views Zech 2olferi,Undir 
Carnegie’s Fitness Pragram
So you wanna be an athlete, a 
Hercules, another Atlas who has 
great reserves of dynamic tension— 
Well, you have certainly come to 
the right place.
First, you submitted your appli­
cation to a board composed of your 
immediate neighbors, who decided 
upon your outstanding qualifica­
tions. After securing the required 
recommendation from this board, 
you were sent before a group of 
doctors, dentists, psychiatrists, etc. 
If you were one of the lucky ones to 
pass this examination, you were 
ready to begin your preparatory 
training for one of the ASTP 
schools. As you know, this train­
ing was nothing compared with 
what you will receive here. It was 
just to get you in condition for the 
future, lasting for a mere 13 weeks. 
There, you only went on 15-mile 
hikes, carried a measly 60 pounds 
around on your back to develop 
your posture, ran around a small 
obstacle course (merely % miles 
Jong) each morning after breakfast, 
and did such nonsense as KP, fa­
tigue duty, guard duty, bayonet 
practice, etc.
Now that you have satisfactorily 
completed this preparatory training, 
you are ready to begin the supreme 
test. Naturally, you won’t be able 
to spend all your time practicing 
calisthenics. There will be ap­
proximately six hours each day 
spent in classes engaged in studying 
subjects which will not only train 
your mind to think fast, but will al­
so cause a slight amount of fatigue, 
thus indirectly aiding you to ac­
quire your goal—supreme not only 
in physical powers, but also in 
mental powers. Naturally, you must 
have time to study your subjects so 
as to excel in them. This is am­
ply taken care of. Approximate­
ly five hours will be devoted en­
tirely to study each day and two 
hours devoted to a combination of 
study, rest, and maybe drinking
an occasional ......................... (From
the trainer’s viewpoint, the “coke” 
isn’t recommended.) Adding to­
gether the hours in which you are 
engaged in either studying or 
classes, you will find that you have 
approximately 11 hours each day in 
which you are engaged in no par­
ticular activity.
At first, however, most of your 
physical training will be devoted to 
calisthenics. Mr. Cecil Alexander, 
who is on the faculty of Carnegie 
Tech, is in charge of instructing you 
in wrestling and unarmed defense. 
This should prove a very interesting 
sport and give you some new angles 
on life, especially from the ground 
up. Mr. Joseph Harsky, another 
Tech faculty member, is in charge 
of teaching you the art of tumbling 
and how to develop your chest and
We offer SPECIAL RATES for 
Cleaning to the ARMY MEN at 
Tech. Quick Service.
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
shoulders by working on the bars, 
weight, etc.
To be a well-rounded athlete, you 
must have speed and endurance. 
What should have a more pictures­
que setting, not only for its loca­
tion, but for the variety of scenes, 
than the obstacle course? That is 
where you will get endurance. How­
ever, we still lack speed, so some­
thing is still needed---track. Track 
is a sport which not only gives you 
speed, but also will add determina­
tion. Mr. Oscar F. Adams is in 
charge of this important part of 
your training.
To have a well-rounded athletic 
career, you need sports which train 
every muscle in your body to re­
spond immediately to the slighest 
impulse. Because no one sport is 
able to incorporate all of your 
muscles into such a miracle of per­
fection, a variety of sports has been 
scheduled to accomplish this. They 
include football, for grim deter­
mination (coached by Mr. C. K. 
Ewing); basketball, for co-ordina­
tion and co-operation (coached by 
Mr. P. F. O’Connor, one of Tech’s 
own); boxing, for co-ordination and 
fortitude (coached by Tech’s Mr. 
Ernest “Rock-em-back” Sesto); and 
last but not least, swimming, a do- 
or-die. sport. Because of the vast 
amount of physical training that 
you will be encountering, you need 
someone to administer it to you in 
quantities which your body can 
absorb (we hope). Asst. Professor 
Frank W. Moses was chosen for this 
position!
To assure yourself that you are 
sufficiently absorbing this exercise, 
physical efficiency tests have been 
designed to find out just how well 
you are progressing. Asst. Professor 
A. E. Risedorph is in charge of ad­
ministering these tests. They should 
prove very hard and strenuous at 
first, but with the continuation of 
the physical fitness program, you 
will soon become so accustomed to 
hard work that they will appear 
rather easy. If any First Aid is 
needed, Mr. W. M. Munhall will be 
only too glad to Kelp you recuperate.
In some of the sports participated 
in by the Army, there will be in­
tramurals sponsored by Asst. Pro­
fessor Frank Eyman. These should 
prove not only interesting to the 
student body of Tech as a whole, 
but should also create some spirited 
competition between the civilian 
students and the Army.
After combining all the time re­
quired for both scholastic and ath­
letic achievement, it is easily seen 
that the Army has not utilized all 
of their methods in securing the ut­
most for their effort. There is still 
the chance that you will be required 
to sleep at attention instead of the 
accustomed at ease.
ARMY MEN
Complete Selection 
of
ARMY ACCESSORIES
SHIRTS BELTS TIES 
PANTS SOCKS
Overseas Hats Garrison Caps 
At Popular Prices
Leonard’s Men’s Shop
Oakland Cor. Forbes & Atwood St.
Way; Drop Three But 
Win Over West Virginia
The Carnegie Tech golf team has 
six matches on their schedule this 
year. Two games with Pitt, two 
with West Virginia, and two with 
Washington and Jefferson. Four of 
these have been played already, 
those being the ones with Pitt and 
West Virginia. The two games with 
W. & J. are scheduled to be played 
the first two weeks in June.
There are two particularly out­
standing golfers this year, Riddel 
and Beck. Both are very good, and 
although Beck has the distinction 
of shooting the lowest score in a 
match, Riddel seems to be the most 
consistent player, since he has been 
the low nian in the other three 
matches.
The first match of the season was 
with Pitt at the Pittsburgh Field 
Club on May 12. Riddell was the 
low man for Tech with a score of 84. 
The individual scores were as fol­
lows: Riddel (T), 0 — Kroan(P),
1 y2; Kwolek(T), 0 — Butcher (P), 
1 y2; Beck (i) , ly* — Churban (P), 0; 
O’Brien (T), 1 — Dressier (P), y2; 
Holland (T), 0 — Smith (P), 1 y2; 
Brier (T), 0—Dunn(P), iy2. The to­
tal score was 2y2 for Tech and 6y2 
for Pitt. Our boys went down to 
defeat.
The second match was with West 
Virginia at theNemacolin Country 
Club on May 14. Biddel was again 
low man with a 79, a very creditable 
score. The individual scores were as 
follows: Riddell (T), 1 y2 — Moore 
(W. Va.), 0; Kwloek(T), ly,—Crow 
(W. Va.), 0; Beck (T), 0—Kelly(W. 
Va), U/2; O’Brien(T), 0—Q’Hall(W.
Diggin’ The Discs
By Dick
McGhee Special — Hey Lawdy 
Mama.
Andy Kirk (Decca).
Special is a solid jump by a sepia 
band which is under-appreciated by 
most. It’s a trumpet opus featuring 
Howard McGhee in a somewhat Roy 
Eldridge groove. Why do all the 
discs featuring the trumpet have to 
end with the trumpet man screech­
ing out above high “C”?
Reverse is a tempo de blues—vo­
cal by June Richmond with nice 
band backing.
Boogie Woogie—Weary Blues.
Tommy Dorsey (Victor).
Re-issue of the month—Boogie is 
full band neatly done, copied after 
Pinetop’s Boogie Woogie. This disc 
should have a good commercial ap­
peal in the juke box. Backing is a 
jjump-tempo “Blues.” Clarinet, pi­
ano, tenor, and trombone solos. Trom 
by Tommy is real jazz.
Va.), iy2; Holland(T), i/2_Ray(W. 
Va.), 1; King(T), i/2 — Charles(W. 
Va.), 1. The final score added up to 
another defeat for the Techites, West 
Virginia having 5, and Carnegie 
having 4.
The third match of the season was 
a return performance with Pitt at 
the Alcoma Course on May 18. This 
is the match in which Beck shot the 
lowest score of the year for any 
Tech golfers. He calmly set the pace 
with a sizzling 73, which isn’t bad 
golf in any man’s league. There is 
no other information on this game 
other than the fact that Pitt won,
6y>—2y>.
The fourth match, and Tech’s only 
victory this season, was at the Pitts­
burgh Field Club on May 21. Bob 
“Reliable” Riddell was again low 
man for Tech with a score of 83. The 
underdog in this match was West 
Virginia, Tech running up a score of 
7y2 to West Virginia’s 1 y2. The in­
dividual scores were as follows: 
Riddell(T), iy2 — Moore(W. Va.), 
0; Kwolek(T), 1—Yokum(W. Va.), 
y2; Beck(T), iy2—Kelly(W.Va.),0; 
O’Brien(T), iy2 — Fisher(W. Va.), 
0; Holland(T);, 1—Wolfe ( W. Va.), 
y2; King(T), 1—Jones(W. Va.), y2. 
The lads from Carnegie seemed to 
have found themselves in this 
match, and really came home with 
the “bacon.”
In the first two matches difficul­
ties arose in the fact that some of 
the Techite were ineligible at the 
end of the semester and were hav­
ing difficulty in registering. How­
ever, these were straightened out, 
and in the two coming matches with 
Washington and Jefferson our golf­
ers will more than likely make a 
better showing of themselves than 
they have in their four previous 
matches.
Hey, 
You Jitterbugs!
Get Hep 
Step In and Dig
Our Newest Discs! 
Latest Platters
Majestic Electric 
Appliance Co.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bldg., Oakland
HEADQUARTERS FOR
School Supplies 
Army Supplies 
Gym Supplies 
Tech Novelties
For a quiet, tasty bite, try our luncheonette
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FORBES STREET
Your Campus Drug Store
«4

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, June 2, 1943
tletnemhesi the Ahno*t KùH?
•by Pvt. A. S. T.
Last Tuesday a human interest 
story of some little note appeared 
in the TARTAN under the title “A 
Kid From Akron.” Not realizing at 
the time that there were such ster­
ling characters in the Army, let 
alone right here at Carnegie Tech, 
an investigation of the situation was 
deemed necessary. Here are the re­
sults, perhaps slightly tainted with 
imagination.
The kid, “that tousled haired kid 
who is playfully skipping along, and 
gives you a frienly wink when you 
smile at him,” that kid is six and a 
half feet tall and weighs a cool 210 
soakin’ wet. He has a deep bass 
voice which booms even when he 
whispers sweet nothings “to a pret- 
try girl back in Akron.”
And that low polite whistle that 
last week’s interviewer gave prob­
ably was more genuine than low 
and polite ’cause his girl happens to 
be one of the most beautiful gals in 
Ohio.
Oh yes, that stuff about gold- 
brickin’. That’s the real McCoy, the 
tousled haired kid was goldbrickin’. 
And he paid dearly for his pains— 
every half-hour over Saturday 
afternoon, and evening and all day 
Sunday our hero tripped merrily 
back and forth between his room
and batallion headquarters, auto­
graphing a register for the Charge 
of Quarters, by request of the mili­
tary. Ah, the price one pays for a 
moment of bliss!
By the way, dear readers, the 
tousled haired kid really took a 
beatin’ from certain unnamed 
Rebels for that little slip of the 
tongue about a well known South­
ern University. Old Ohio has ac­
quired a new respect for Virginians 
in particular and South Carolinians 
in particular. While certain Penn­
sylvanians who were formerly sta­
tioned in the Richmond area heart­
ily approve all punitive action 
taken by the Confederacy. Those ac­
cented females really have dingin’ 
ways.
About those lights going out one 
by one when 10:30 rolls around. 
Brother, never has a phenomenom 
been so pathetically understated. 
When Sgt . Dobbs tersely bawls 
“lights out;” well, have you ever 
seen a blind colored fellow crawling 
face down through the Himalayan 
Plateau?
And with this, dear Skibo, you are 
left; and we trust in a much deeper 
fog about what the typical AST man 
is like than you were before there 
was an Army Specialized Training 
Program.
Q<ymmu*U(^oe. tfiam Meade
The following letter is printed in accordance with the present TAR­
TAN policy, that of keeping the student body informed of what Our Boys 
are doing—off campus and on.
It was received by Miss Ellenor Tallmadge of the News Bureau. The 
writer is Karl Ferrell, Mechanical Engineer ’44, who left with the Army 
Enlisted Reserve on May 19th, for Fort Meade, Maryland.
Dear Miss ‘T’:
Well, I’ve got a new job now. I’m working for Uncle Sam. The hours 
are pretty long and the pay ain’t much, but it’s still pretty swell. I’m only 
making roughly 6.916667c an hour, but when you figure that I put in 24 
hours that nets me a cool $1.66 a day. Not bad!
I got a new suit the other day. It’s a sort of a light tan. Real suave. 
Of course, I couldn’t get any cuffs on account of the war, but still, it’s all 
right. I also got a “play suit” and it’s a sort of a “covert-gabardeenish” 
outfit. “Denim” I think the man called it. I wear it quite a bit.
They do things somewhat different here than we did back home. For 
instance, they spell captain with a “K.” They abbreviate it “Kp.” (or 
something like that). Incidentally, I think I’m going to be one of these 
“Kaptains” before long now. In fact, I think I’m already “sworn in” from 
the way the sergeant talked at the time.
Before I came here I could hardly wait to leave because I was getting 
tired of sitting around. Here at Meade they just get you up earlier in the 
morning so’s you’ll have more time to sit around.
Really, tho’, I’m really going to like this life, once I get into it. This 
place is mighty dull, here. All we’re doing is fooling around till we leave. 
Of course, we’re not loafing; they keep us busy enough; but we’re all anx­
ious to get out of here and really get started on our training.
There are between 50 and 60 of us Tech fellows down here and we all 
stick together. We have some great times.
You can’t get anything down here but 3.2 beer and you can get that 
any day of the week. I haven’t tried it yet and I’ve had no desire. I’m 
shut off now. The boys tell me it’s awful stuff anyhow. We had quite a 
gay time on our day down here. We stopped in both Washington and Bal­
timore and saw enough of each town to have a real time.
Tell everyone I said “Hello.”
Karl.
THEHonest Prices Faithful Promises
PLACE TO EATA Service You Will
------in------Appreciate
OAKLANDFORBES
BILL'S LUNCH ROOM
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
3911 Forbea Street4526 Forbes St. MA. 9728
MIKE BOSACK* * *
Two Carnegie Men 
Do Well in Duties
News has been received from the 
Public Relations Office at Pensa­
cola, Florida, about Michael J. Bo- 
sack, III, graduate in the class of 
’42. Bosack, after successfully com­
pleting training courses at the Naval 
Air Training Center at Pensacola, 
Florida, and St. Louis, Missouri, re­
ceived his commission as a Second 
Lieutenant in the Marine Air Corps. 
Having been named a naval aviator, 
Lieutenant Bosack will go on active 
duty at one of the Navy’s air opera­
tional training centers before being 
assigned to a combat zone. While at 
Carnegie Tech, Lieutenant Bosack 
was Commander of Sigma Nu fra­
ternity, a Dragon, and the Chair­
man of the Spring Carnival Com­
mittee.
Bernard N. Coley, graduate of the 
class of ’42, was third officer in the 
Pan American Airways crew that 
recently made a round-trip crossing 
of the Atlantic Ocean in a single 
day’s time.
The twelve-man crew, of which 
Coley was a member, was out on a 
regularly scheduled trip and passed 
over the south Atlantic and back 
again in the breath-taking time of
23 hours.
Coley, who is not new in the busi­
ness of flying, has 600 actual flight 
hours to his credit and completed 
the government-sponsored civilian 
pilot training course at Butler, Penn­
sylvania, where he instructed for a 
year and a half before joining Pan 
American.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENTJ
Near Craig: Street
Dr. Watkins ...
Continued from page 1
the commanding officer, dubbed 
Simon Legree by the men, was very 
strict in discipline and only instant 
obedience was tolerated. A humor­
ous story is told of the class’s atti­
tude toward the Colonel. One morn­
ing, on their way to the eight o’clock 
class, the men heard a pack of dogs 
howling in the distance. One of the 
group shouted:
“That must be old Simon’s dogs 
making sure that we aren’t late for 
the eight o’clock class!”
Another story was told about one 
of the lecture rooms in which Dean 
Watkins took a course. The room 
was tremendous in size, and on an 
ordinary day, was completely filled. 
The instructor, in order to make his 
voice carry across the long hall, had 
to use an amplifier connected under 
his throat, and a telephone was em­
ployed to receive questions from 
one end of the room to the other. 
Many times during the course the 
men heard special speakers obtained 
especially for the group.
Near the officers’ training school 
is located the Leavenworth State 
Penitentiary. Dean Watkins, in a 
talk with the prison chaplain, ob­
served the habits and mannerisms 
of the prisoners, and drew a very 
clear picture of existing conditions. 
He saw Bergdoll, the notorious con­
scientious objector of the first 
World War, who is still serving a 
prison term.
Dean Watkins, by special request, 
has written an article concerning 
his training at Leavenworth for the 
Alumnus, the magazine of the Car­
negie Tech alumni.
CWCA-YMCA Hymn Sing
At 5 o’clock Sunday evening, the 
CWCA and YMCA will jointly spon­
sor the second in a series of Sunday 
hymn sings in the Little Theater of 
the Fine Arts Buildings.
Under the leadership of Mary 
Margaret Jubic, the initial half-hour 
program of the proposed series was 
held last Sunday. According to 
Zureta Timberlake, CWCA chair­
man in charge of the programs, this 
week’s service will also be open to 
soldier and civilian students.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
