SUBSCRIBE NOW 
FOR 
1922 THISTLE
FOOTBALL SAT.
TECH-ST.
BONAVENTURE
VOL. XVI. NO. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1921
FIRST GEN. 
ASSEMBLY
Music Hall Filled—W. & J. 
Trip Advertised—Hertz 
Leads Cheers
NEW PRES. SPEAKS
The first big General Assembly of 
the year -was held last week and there 
was a fairly good attendance, but 
nothing like it should be with our 
large student body. This assembly 
was scheduled for this week, -but on 
account of the W. & J. game ‘last 
Saturday, was moved up a week and 
turned into a pep meeting.
P. I. Smith conducted tbe assembly 
and after the announcements propos­
ed an amendment to the constitution 
of the Athletic Association. This 
amendment was in regard to the 
method of inakiug such amendments 
and was passed on favorably by the 
students. It required a little consid­
eration on the president’s part to de­
cide whether the affirmative or the 
negative made the greatest noise.
Coach “Wally”.'Steffen gave a very 
impressive talk about what was ex­
pected from the students in the W. & 
J. game . He gave his. views on the 
game and advised the student hody 
not to feel overconfident about it. 
Assistant Coach Bob Waddell, who 
was scouting on our Saturday’s op­
ponents, told us what lie thought 
about the game. Pie said that out of 
about 350 students. W. & J. had 71 
out for football and that they were 
out to avenge their 6 to 0 defeat. “We 
have one lighting change to win,” 
said Bob, and he urged all of the stu­
dent body to be present at the game, 
as it would be the best of the year. 
P. I. Smith announced the route of 
the parade, the cost of the trip and 
the time of departure for the game.
Ross -Hertz, new head cheer leader, 
led in the cheers, with the assistance 
of the other cheer leaders. A new yell 
and also, a new song were tried out 
and they had the entire support of 
the students. “Bob” Nation, our new 
Student Council president, was intro­
duced and he gave a short talk.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB 
SOCIAL MEETING
The Cosmopolitan Club has started 
its activities for tbe year with a "bang. 
For the purpose of welcoming the 
new members and at the same time 
giving the old-tiiners an opportunity 
to renew old acquaintances, a' social 
gathering was held last Friday even­
ing in the M. M. Recreation Hall. A 
crowd of over seventy persons at­
tended the gathering, which turned 
out to be very successful. The co­
eds furnished the surprise of the 
evening by their wonderful turnout.
The program of the evening’s en­
tertainment was a& short as it was 
snappy. Miss Davies, a senior in the 
M. M. College, as president of the
GRAPHICA 
FLANS TRIP
INVASION OF CARNEGIE 1ECE COHORTS STARTLE 
LITTLE WASHINGTON LAST SATURDAY
To Inspect Eastern Printing 
Shops —Special Bagpipe 
Out at Christmas
PLEBE SCHOLARSHIP
The Grapliica held a very peppy 
meeting at a banquet held Thursday, 
October 13, at the grill room of the 
Belleiieldi Apartments. The (possibil­
ity of taking an inspection trip was 
discussed, also the possibilities of 
publishing a Christmas edition oi 
the Bagpipe.
This meeting was one of the livest 
ever held by a Tech club. Many im­
portant subjects were brought u'p 
and discussed thoroughly by all 
members present.
It. was planned that a trip of in­
spection such as was taken two 
years ago, visiting various printing 
concerns. Plants in Washington, D. 
C., Philadelphia and New York were 
suggested as possible places of in­
terest. The trip -will probably come 
during Easter vacation. The money 
to finance such a- venture will be 
earned through the efforts of the club 
meniDers. As the membership in 
the club has greatly increased it 
was thought best to restrict such a 
trip to upperclassmen, as it would 
be practically impossible ¡for the en­
tire group to go.
It was suggested that a certain 
sum of money be put aside for a 
scholarship, to be awarded to the 
Freshman, in the Grapliica, having 
the .highest scholastic standing and 
the most points for activities, . at 
the end. of his first year.
Ray Keller Was appointed chair­
man of a committee which is to 
build uipi a library for the .Grapliica 
club room.
The meeting was adjourned by 
singing “Dear Old Tech.”
PROF. HOYLE GOES TO TORONTO
Professor Hoyle, head of the De­
partment of Printing, left Friday for 
the Typothetae convention in Toron­
to, Canada, where he will represent 
the printing department of Carnegie 
Tech. He is taking with him a pub­
lication, “The School of Printing,” 
which explains tlie course at Tech 
and contains a directory Of the print­
ing students. This booklet is the 
work of the men taking the printing 
course. .
NIGHT REGISTRATION
club, presided over the meeting. In 
the course of her introductory re­
marks she explained fully the objects 
and the ideals of the Cosmopolitan 
Club and made plain the fact, which 
has been very much misunderstood, 
that this club is not for foreign stu­
dents alone, but’that it could not be 
cosmopolitan very much if it did not 
include American students as well in 
its membership.
Miss Coombs gave several delight­
ful selections on the piano which 
were very well received by the audi­
ence. Mr. Dimancesco, the - Rouma-• 
nian Consul in Pittsburgh, kept tho 
crowd laughing with - his funny 
sketches from life on tbe campus. 
The club membership must he very 
musically inclined for the program 
included a piano-saxo-uke trio by the 
Misses Davies, Fife and Coombs. The 
climax of the evening’s fun was 
reached when Messrs. Kalabich and 
Strba indulged in a roaring bull fight. 
Matadors, picadors, swords ’n every­
thing were there. However, no red 
rags were used to stir up the bulls as 
this color wrould have spoiled the 
scenery. White sheets were used In­
stead and they blinded the bulls so 
completely that although the latter 
often locked horns with fury no dam 
age was done except a few broken 
swords. The referee declared the 
fight a draw.
To relieve the nervous tension of 
the spectators refreshments were 
served immediately after the battle. 
A short dance concluded the evening’s 
entertainment and in the words of 
the Hickville Morning Star “a grand 
time was had by all.”
Too much credit cannot be given 
to the program committee headed by 
Miss Fife as chairman for bringing 
about such an enjoyable evening. 1
The officers elected last spring for 
this coming year are the following: 
Miss Lenore Davis, president; Mr. 
Svabek, vice president; Miss Mary 
l^ife, secretary; Mr. Stephens, corre­
sponding secretary and Mr. Harvey, 
treasurer.
The night registration in the Col­
leges of Engineering, Industries and 
Fine Arts, shortly after the opening 
d'Qte, October 3, is given in the 
table below. The Tegistration -for 
night courses dn the Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College has not yet 
taken place and partly for this rea­
son the figures show the attendance 
to be less tban last year.
It is planned to offer a number 
of Saturday morning and late after­
noon classes this year as part of 
the evening school work.
College of Engineering................. 255
College -cf Fine Artf.............-_____172
College of Industries..................... 500
Total ...927
TECH GRADUATE PROMOTED
Mr. R. C. Cosgrove, who graduated 
in Commercial Engineering from Car;- 
negie Institute of Technology in 1918 
has been appointed manager of the 
farming section of the Industrial 
Sales Department of the Westing- 
house Electric & Manufacturing Com­
pany. Mr. Cosgrove isi located at 
East Pittsburgh.
DE-FEATEP?
\ I . / •
THISTLE SALE 
STARTED WED
Sale By Subscription Only- 
No Extra Copies Printed
The sales campaign of tho Thistle 
is well under way by now. While tliej 
sales so far have not been what they!! 
should, owing, probably, because of 
the lack of money around tbe campus 
last week, the sales committee ex-1 
pects to fake'a'large huiiiber of orders' 
within the next two weeks.
'Last Tuesday a meeting of tho 
Thistle board, Junior class year book 
committees1,^ and .Thistle salesmen 
was held. Jack Franklin, sales man­
ager of the 1922 Thistle, told of tho 
plans and organization of tho sales 
campaign. The Junior classes of 
each of the four schools are taking 
charge- of the sales each in their own 
schools. Miss Lyons is chairman of 
the M. M. D. committee, Pete Thomp­
son in Science, F. C. Fisher in In­
dustries, and Rodney Patterson in 
Arts. Jack Evans, business manager 
of the Thistle, told of the work being 
done on this year’s Thistle.
Many people when asked to (buy a 
Thistle, reply that they would like 
to own, but they can’t scrape up the 
price. The Thistle has arranged a 
means whereby the students are able 
to make a preliminary payment of 
|2.50 and the remaining two dollars 
when the book is published.
STUDENT SERVICES AT
SHADYSIDE PRESBY. CHURCH
SENIORS TEA DANCE
I was just beginning to think that 
being a ‘Senior was not all it was 
cracked up to be when I strolled .into 
the Senior Tea Dansant last Friday 
afternoon. Frankly I was somewhat 
skeptical about such an affair but I 
assure you that all my doubts were 
dispelled in a short time. Lots of 
willing girls, good dancers and full 
of Tech spirit provide the most en­
joyable companions for an afternoon 
that one would desire and ilf you 
doubt my word reserve a tag now 
for the next one.
Music was furnished by a school 
orchestra which ait present might be 
called Hughe’s in • the advanced 
embryo. Tea and refreshments were 
served, Dean Scales assisting in ihe 
pouring. Such affairs bid fair to 
become a fixture at Tech, occurring 
at free and ifrequent intervals—at 
least if those present have anything 
to say about it.
Dr. Hugh Thomson Kerr announces 
a series of special Sunday evening 
services for students in the Shady- 
side Presbyterian Church. The gen­
eral-topic under which all his ser­
mons are based is “What I Believe 
and Why.” The last two sermons 
have been “Why I Believe in' God” 
and “Why I Believe in Jesus Christ.” 
The subject for the coming Sunday 
will be “Why I Believe in the Bible.”
These services begin at 8:00. 
There are a great many Tech stu­
dents who will be very glad to know 
of these services, so pass on the 
word.
The choir is assisted by a male 
quartet and there is always a good 
musical iprogram.
Some of the topics for future serv­
ices are: “Why I Believe in the
Church,” “Why I Believe in Conver­
sion,” “Why I Believe in the Life 
to Come.”
(By L. J. Whitehead)
Some ,ono said that when the peo­
ple of Pittsburgh crave some excitin’ 
news on Sunday they haul out tho 
Bible and after reading the story, 
wonder how Samson eVer did it. But 
brethren, them days is over. From now 
on henceforth, they will dig out tho 
papers dated October 1G and wonder 
how it ever happened. Wonder how 
what happened? Why how W. & J. 
ever managed to defeat Tech 14-0. 
That was a game where there was as 
much glory for the loser as there 
was for tho winner and as for a Tech 
defeat take a look at tho sketch.
The papers say that Steffen uncork­
ed evferything he-had and then some. 
But we rise to the occasion to inform 
the papers that they «don’t know Stef­
fen and advise them to wajt until the 
season is over. Well, the lid came oft’ 
something else at Tech and that was 
the student body. Everything from 
lungs to , pocltol'books . was uncorked 
and let us tell you those W. & J. 
people were scared—-plum scared to 
death. We sa>v tho Wheeling exhi­
bition last year and assure you it was 
a tea party alongside this one.
The usual pre-departure pee-rado 
was held down town with the best 
band in toAvn leading and you could 
tell by the look on their faces when 
we passed down the line they were 
thinking maybe Tech will win, ‘Shades 
of 'Saint Lazarus how near we came 
to it!! When tho gang reached tlie 
Union ¡Station you’d have thought tho 
President himself was coming 
through. They haven’t had such a big 
task on tlicir hands since the time of 
^Continued on Page Four.)
FRESHMEN RECEPTIONS
BY DEANS SCALES * 
AND TARBELL *
Prof.—Hey, what’s that noise out 
there?
Stude—Why I just dropped a per­
pendicular, sir.—Voo Doo. **
* Following the custom begun
* last year, • the Dean of Men and v 
v the Dean of. Women will give v 
v two informal receptions for the
-V men and women, off the Fresh- v
* man classes in all Colleges of «!• 
v the Institute. They will be held v
* in the Carnegie .Union from
* 4:30 to 6 o’clock on Friday after-
* noons, October 21 and 28. The <• 
•> Dean of Men and the Dean of v
* Women herewith cordially in- *
* vite all members of the Fresh- v
* man Class to these receptions: v
* on the 21st, the men whose v
* names begin with the letters A v
* through M are invited: on the *
* 28th, those from N through Z, * 
*1* On account of their smaller -"c
* number, the Freshmen ‘women v 
,are invited for both times. •!*
* No personal invitations will
•I- be sent, and it is hoped that v 
•i* each will take this invitation * 
•> for him or herself. v
The BAND Scoring Their Touchdown
LUCKY BREAK 
GIVES W. & J. 
14-0 VICTORY
Opponents Undoubtedly Outplayed— 
Won by Superior Punting and 
Passing—No First Down in 
First Half For W. «Sc J.
12,000 PEOPLE WITNESS GAME
By H. F. SIMPSON
In one of the fastest, most brilliant, and perhaps most thrilling football 
games ever played on College Field, Washington, Pennsylvania, the Washing­
ton and Jefferson team defeated the Plaid gridders by the score of 1-1 to 0 
last Saturday. Without a doubt the team that won tho game deserved to 
win that day a least bit more than the team that, lost, but that shade is so 
very dim that to tho casual and unbiased observer, it was a case of luck in 
that there was a winner at all.
To say that Carnegie Tocli deserved to win the game is not said with 
any idea of belittling the game as played by Washington and Jefferson, but 
to only give to the Tech gridders the credit ,that their playing, lighting, show 
of gameness, and natural ability as . brought out by the Steffen system of 
coaching. And along side with this statement it would be entirely appropri­
ate to say that the team that won did 
not deserve by any means whatever 
to loSe for in certain departments of 
the game they showed a blear superi­
ority over the To,oh ,griddoi;s.
Tech showed a marked superiority 
in ground-gaining, and straight foot­
ball. Tho Plaid line held like a stono 
wall at all times, as evidenced in tho 
fact that not a single first down was 
scored against them in tho first half, 
and It was only through a resort to 
the aerial game that any substantial 
gains were made In tho last half. In 
this “shooting” of tho forward pass, 
W. & J. showed a most remarkable
STUDENTS
NEED JOBS
Bureau Has Nearly 500 Ap­
plications For Work
The present business depression 
has affected employment In practi­
cally every part of this country and 
has beon the cause of plmclng mil'll* 
Ions of people out of work, 
h.eair of the suffering and need; 
every where and of course,, are ready 
to sympathize at all tlmo, but get­
ting down to brass tacks, how many 
of us are willing to help? Many of 
you students, aiuninl arid friends of 
i/lils Instltimion ciio not realize the 
large number of needy wltliln your 
own Institution. This situation has 
been caueied by praculically every in­
dustry In this district closing down, 
affecting many other kinds of busJn 
ness, a great many oL’ which are 
subsidiary to tho largo Industries.
There are approximately 500 stu­
dents looking for part-time work, 
trying to earn a part ol! tholr ex­
penses whiich moans* an odu.cyJ.ion 
for them. Tho schedules of imany 
of. our needy students, are hard and 
long and they have only a little time 
to devote, to outside work. Practi­
cally all of our part-time work is 
(Lone after school, evenings and Sat­
urdays. The following are some of 
the ldndu of work Our students are 
doing and can do to help them com­
plete their education—
Tracers, Carpenters, Wlremen, 
Surveyors, Manual Workers, Stenog­
raphers, Furnace Tenders, Wall Pa­
per Cleaners, Canvassers, Care of 
Machinery,. Packers and Picture 
Hangers, Cafe Takers of Lawns and 
Gardens, Waiters, Theater Attend­
ants, Clerks, General Handy Men, 
Salesmen, Instructors, Private Tutors, 
Musicians,, Car Washers, Painters, 
Chauffers, Attendants for Bowling 
Alleys.
Attendants for Bowling Alloys.
You can see by the above that stu­
dents who work are deserving and 
there is no doubt as to their future, 
after they have completed their 
courses here.
The,, bureau is doing everything it 
can to secure work. All we ask is 
that every student, faculty member, 
friend and' alumnus of the Institute 
try to concentrate on the employ­
ment situation and help us in secur­
ing part-time jobs. Please report all 
jobs that you hear about to the bu­
reau'as soon as possible.
Let us help those who are trying 
to help themselves.
Wo’ Kanie, and perhaps had a greater re­
liance boon placed on It than iirfutllo 
attempts to gain through tho Tech 
lino, tho score might perhaps luivo 
beon larger. In tho actual punting, 
Anderson of Tech was just about tho 
same in ability an Brenkort of Wa,all- 
Jeff, but in running them down, ,Tocli 
was, far Inferior. After every punt of 
Bronkort’s, tho \ Red and Black for­
wards were down tho field, and InW 
rlably downed tho Toeh man In Ills 
tracks. Tocli Was also good In this 
department, but not quite so good us 
was Washington and Jefferson. In 
generalship (hero was nothing that 
could possibly have boon desired on 
olthor slclo, for both teams woro ban* 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
SONG OF SONGS
IN BIB1CAL STORY
A. S. M. E. MEETING
A very interesting meeting of the 
Carnegie Tech Branch of the Amer­
ican Society of Mechanical Engineers 
was held last Wednesday evening in 
Room 10, Machinery Hall.
Over fifty people were present. 
The first part of the meeting con­
sisted of a business «session, many 
Important matters being discussed as 
well as the routine business.
After the business session the so­
ciety was favored by a, talk from 
Professor Trinks, who Is the honor­
ary chairman of the A. S. M. )3. and 
Professor Ely also of the A. S. M. 
E.
During tho last part of the even­
ing refreshments were served and a 
social hour was enjoyed.
Of "The Song of Songs,” the Bibli­
cal spectacio-play current In tho Arts 
Theater, thoro are two herooa. The 
first is the anonymous, author of tho 
poem of what is certainly the finest 
of available Oriental love-pooms; this 
personage has boon too Jong dead to 
heed our praises, or our blame. The 
other arid the Visible hero IS Profes­
sor Osborne, whose skill and tasto 
have devised from tho original inco­
herences a moving if not quite plaus­
ible play, and whose imagination and 
capacity for visual expression havo 
created a pageant of great beauty.’:. 
Ingenuity and tact are involved, also, 
in veiling Lho pagan pre-occupations 
of the text with, a quasi-religious at­
mosphere lest tbe sluggish pulse of 
Puritanism be agitated.
Naturally, perhaps, it is the spec­
tacle rather than the play which re­
quires first attention. On this point, 
words are too dim to do more tban 
suggest the barbaric • luxury and the 
splendor of the effects, the adroit use 
of scanty persons and materials, to 
the end that the pictures of the ap­
proach of Solomon, of the court and 
seraglio of this Merry Monarch, have 
not been equalled in lavishness, in 
beauty of line and color, on our stage. 
In the ensemble, no figure is wasted, 
whether it be' that of court-official, 
graceful wife, Nubian, man of jade, 
or dancing girl. But beyond fabric 
and figure are setting and lighting. 
The former does not seem epoch-mak­
ing though cleverly adapted to sev­
eral uses; is it beyond that of the fa- 
miliar Biblical play, Tho Shepherd 
King or The Wanderer? The lighting 
except for the inevitably incredible 
sunrise and an Inclination to pinlcy- 
blueness, is brilliant in any sense. 
Tho onlire Technical staff Is hereby 
thanked.
On the mimetic side, all Is not sat­
isfaction. Mr, Carl B. Reid omorgos 
victorious, even though Ills beautiful 
"reading” of varied apposite and In­
apposite Biblical passages bo not act­
ing In the strict, sonso. His dignity 
and rosonancios go far, however, to 
the weaving of the churclily atmos­
phere, and also suggest why men 
with good voices become clergymen.
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1921
©ctriatt
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student ActlvItleB Board,
Entered In the Postoiflce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES .......................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Hazel 9398
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................ Business Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211
VIC. H. STROMQUIST .............................................................. Managing Editor
Telephones—Schenlcy 9180 or Hiland 858
HELEN V, LEWIS .................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone-r-Schonley 9079
EDWARD A. BRAND .......................................................................... News Editor
Telephone—Sclionley 9070
HERBERT L. MOERSFELDER ................................................... Athletic Editor
Telephone, Schonloy 3941
H. F. SIMPSON................................................................Assistant Athletic Editor
R. II. GUYTON ................................................................................... Photographer
O. A. DICIvMAN ........................................................................... Exchange Editor
Happenings on the Campus
ATTENTION MID-WESTERNERS!
Hi D. SONNEMANN ............................................................ AdvertiBing Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211 
E. L. RIELL Y ....................................................... .............. Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Boguo, IT. F. Dieter, A.fLubln, B, R. Beiver, Yincont Roy, P. C. 
McKenzie, John Foeney, H. H. Lefhowitz, IT. H. Wilson, K. L. McKee, W. J. 
Bolton, F. T. Phelps, M. Sclnnnachor, R. P. Hay.__________________________________
J. M. Cooper
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. SowersW. B. Cunningham
The Editor-in-Chiof is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest. If signed, 
signature will be withheld If desired. All news items must be. in the student 
post ollice before 4:30 Friday.
The Tartan Oilloe, Room A-5 Industries Building. Office hours: Monday, 
11:30 to 1:30; Tuesday, 11:30 to 12:30; Wednesday and Friday, 12 to 1.
THE SCORE SAYS 14-0
To the victor belongs the spoils and to Washington and Jefferson 
goes the Honor and glory of a triumph. The “breaks” oil the game 
were with W. & J. and they deserve to win becausc they were ready 
and able to take advantage of them.
Although the score spells victory for W. & J., it does not tell the 
story of the game. It does not tell how Carnegie Tech for 2% quar­
ters outplayed and outfought W. & J., how W. & J. was able to 
negotiate but one first down in the first half. It does not say how 
perplexed and astounded the W. & J. team, heavier by 18 pounds to 
the man and playing Glass A. football, was at our “Class B”' foot­
ball.
But yet, the score says 14-0—W. & J.’s victory—so to W. & J. 
we wish to extend our congratulations and we hope that we will 
meet again next .year. •
Your attention has already been 
called to the fact that a club is be­
ing formed for YOU. If you have 
not heard about it, take cognizance, 
for it is of the utmost importance 
to you.
The plans are all made .for this 
new organization. It has not been 
named as yet, but will be at the next 
meeting, to be held in the room ad­
jacent to the Y. M. C. A. office in 
the Central Building Annex today at 
7:30 p.m. BE THERE BY ALL 
'MEANS.
The purpose of lliie club is three­
fold. First, it is to promote activi­
ties in school, second, to (promote 
activities out of school, vthat is, the 
'forming of new Clans, n^ade possi­
ble by association -while in school 
and, third, to aid in the work of 
getting Freshmen acquainted. The 
cLub will have its social aspect, but 
this will not predominate.
If you men from the. Middle-West 
will take an active interest in the 
club, it will develop into the .biggest 
and best club at Tech. Let's get to­
gether -fellows, and get a local or­
ganization started with a lot of real 
pep, and, if really a strong organize 
tlon, it may in time become national. 
DO YOUR PART TO MAKE SUCH 
A FUTURE NOT A POSSIBILITY, 
BUT A FACT!
A. RECOG­
NITION MEETING
This afternoon at 4:30>, the big 
Recognition Meeting will be held in 
the Rec, Hall. If you are a big sis­
ter be sure to see that your “little 
sis” finds her way to the Rec. Hall 
tliis afternoon.
If you don’t know what some ol 
the Y. W. C. A. activities are—and 
what the Y. W. C, A. is doing and 
can do—come and learn.
Tea will be served. This is the 
first big meeting of the year and 
you should not miss it. All new 
members come and bring the girls 
who aren’t members.
MENORAH SOCIETY
WILL REORGANIZE
ARTS SOPHOMORE DANCE
THE 1922 THISTLE
To own a 1922 Thistle should be the desire of every Tech student. 
College days are the best part of one’s life, and it is indeed fitting and propei* 
that each student should have a permanent record of the widening Interest} 
In Tech activities and athletics. A book that in future years, will help you 
slip away from the toils and worries of your business and spend an hour or 
so among those more or less pleasant days when you were a student. Once 
more you may visualize the old familiar sights. Geek’s exams, the drafting; 
room after a charctte, Pfout's shop, a Magglo Murph assembly, the beanery 
and your favorite bench In Schenley.
That you may once again see the smiling care-free faces of your old 
friends, the pretty countenance of your first Maggie Murph and all your other 
youthful ambitions. These then are Thistle’s prerogatives.
A masquerade dance will be given 
on Friday, October 28, by the Arts 
Sophomores for all of the arts class­
es. Admission will be by arts regis­
tration card.
Coming at this time, -it will, of 
course, be a Hallowe'en affair. The 
committee in charge has many sur­
prising little things planned with 
which they hope to make the event 
a 'success. These features of the 
dance, however, will be kept under 
cover until tlielr appearance on Oc­
tober 28.
Arts Plebes and their friends are 
especially invited to attend.
M. M. C. NEWS
C. ATH. ASS’N 
FOX AND HOUND CHASE
STUDENT COUNCIL
ANNOUNCEMENTS
By action, of the Student Councdl 
all organizations nui«t remove all 
posters and notices within twenty- 
folir hours flitter the ovent for which 
they are posted. Violations will bo 
handled by l.lio council. Punishment 
for such violation will probably take 
the form ol' refusal to permit such 
events to ho (hold by the offending 
o relaxation.
A dllsavimament conference of col­
lege! students da to he held on the 
campus of. Princeton University on 
ÒGtobor 2(1. 1't Is possible that Car­
negie will send one or two dele­
gates to this conil'oronce. All stu­
dents desiring to enter the content, 
'which will decido whom these dele­
gates shall bo shouidi send their
Silo—I like your cigarette holder.
Ho...Why, I never use one.
She—Don't be'* so (louse.—'Siren.
I
.~“RESTAURAÑT
A. WALTER, Propr.
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
names at once to either C. B. Reid 
or C. A. Blesch, the committee in 
charge. The contest will besomething 
of the nature of a debaite. The con­
testant« will deliver their arguments 
before a number df the faculty who 
will act as judges and decide whom 
the dloolgatos will be. This contest 
andi conference will give Tech stu­
dents a. groat, opportunity to repre­
sent the school in another form of 
activity and should meet with a 
large response from the student 
body.
UNNECESSARY
likeITotol Olorlc—Would you
room with a bath, sir?
Ezra Dimibllohiy'- No, thanks. .Tlst 
a room. I took a good wash aforo 
1 left homo last wook.--Judge,
The Collegiate Six
“Dnnco Music Spcclaltlcs" 
EVERETT HUGHES, Loador 
6224 LIBERTY AVENUE 
Hiland 858
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - > $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
LUCKY BREAK GIVES
W. & J. 140 VICTORY
(Continued' From Page One.) 
died with rare good judgment; plays 
being always selected that were per­
haps the best in every case.
The game was lost by Tech in the 
third quarter, and was immediately 
won thereafter by Wash-Jeff. A fum­
ble lost the game for Tech, while a 
perfectly executed forward pass won 
the game for Wash-Jeff. This fumble'1 
was the turning point in the game, 
and perhaps disheartened the fighting 
Tech men, and gave to the, ui>-to-lhis 
time, somewhat depressed Wash-Jeff 
players a new lease of life, for imme­
diately after this, the Presidents 
scored their first touchdown on a per­
fect forward. Previous to this, the 
Wash-Jeff team had been clearly out­
played, out-fought, and out-generaled, 
and were even right up to the very 
second before the fumble, playing 
with their backs to the wall, so to 
speak.
With chnnces for a victory sudden 
ly snatched beyond their reach, the 
Tartan warriors plunged into the rest 
of the game with a renewed vigor, 
which they seemed to have stored up 
In abundance, and again clearly out- 
playod their opponents. But a second 
fumblo similar to the first, arid a most 
brilliant, run by Erickson, which was 
by far. the most; brilliant of the game
scored the second touchdown of the 
day for Wash-Jeff.
On account of their ability to take 
advantage of breaks in the game, and 
the exceptional brilliance of a quartet 
of their players, Wash-Jeff won the 
game. For them, the chief stars were 
Captain Russell Stein, I^iickson, .Ho­
gan and Kopf. Hogan in his throw­
ing of the forward pass was brilliant. 
His passes went straight as an arrow, 
and like a shot true to the mark, al­
most always finding their way into 
the waiting arms of a Red and Black 
man, while those that missed, did so 
by as close a shave as possible. In 
his twenty-yard run for the second 
touchdown, Erickson climaxed his 
brilliant day’s work. Kopf in his re­
covery of the fumbles paved the way 
for the two touchdowns, and himself 
scored one by receiving a forward 
pass back of the Tech goal line.
For Tech, it was a strange twist of 
fate, that the most brilliant performer 
of the day, “Jimmie” Robertson, 
should have committed the two fum­
bles which resulted in the Wash-Jeff 
touchdowns. But in all justice and
A membership campaign on the 
campus is the initial step in the 
plan Ifor ai complete reorganization 
of the Menorah Society at Tech. To 
aid in this campaign, a Menorah 
meeting will be held. The commit­
tee hopes to interest every Jewish 
student of Tech andj make them 
members.
The time of the membership cam­
paign will be announced soon, so 
watch the bulletin boards. Ladies 
are welcome.
The Pitt Menorah. meets tonight, 
Wednesday, Octebier 19, at 8:15 p. 
m., at the Heinz House, on Pitt 
campus, giving a reception to all in­
terested in the Menorah movement, 
All Jewish students at Tech are In­
vited to attend. An informal dance 
will be held following the reception. 
WINNERS IN POSTER
CONTEST ANNOUNCED 
Students1 of the P. and I. and Ap­
plied Arte have been working on a 
poster which is to be used in adver­
tising, a Costume Ball for a Hal­
lowe’en Carnival to be held for the 
benefit of the Pleasant Hill Farm at 
the William Penn Hotel on October 
27. Full school credits are allowed 
on thisi problem in addition to the 
financial reward given to those sub­
mitting the best posters. The jury 
made up of Homer St. Gandens, 
John Frazer,. Miss McClelland and 
{Mr. Slater, awarded the prizes to 
the following persons who are to be 
congratulated in turning out a grade 
of work whiich is .indeed a credit to 
the Institution:
First prize of $20—Catherine Eisa- 
man. ,
Second Prize, $10—Ruth George. 
Third Prize, ?5—Jeanette Shirls.' 
Fourth Prize ?5—L. J. Bookwood, 
And ten ?1 prizes, Anderson, Stultz, 
Winslow, Iiallam, Mahan, DeWoody, 
Barney, Sharp, Moeser and! Ireland.
The Athletic Association, with Isa- 
bel Winner as president, started ac­
tivities with a rush, this week.
The big event was a fox and 
hound chase Wednesday evening. 
The "foxes" left arrows and various 
signs, in their trail, and led the 
“hounds” on many a false road. They 
tailed all over Schenley Park hills 
and valleys.
When the whole crowd finally 
reached the Rec. Hall there was an 
abundance of food—hot dogs, marsh­
mallows, bacon sandwiches, coffee, 
all the things- that go with hikes— 
and a regular pep meeting. Songs 
and yells were practiced for the 
W, and J. game, and everyone 
worked up a lot of enthusiasm for 
the association.
M. M. C. CHATTER
COSTUME PARTY AT M. M.
The newly organized Costume Eco­
nomics Club entertained at a delight­
ful party on Thursday afternoon. 
The affair was given in honor of 
Miss Falls, the Pitt Girls and the 
Sophomores—in short, the new peo­
ple in thb department. A sleverly 
arranged program of game6 and con­
tests furnished the amusement of 
the afternoon -Miss Helen Busch 
was social chairman.
and asked “Has Charlie Galt Mar­
ried?” Anyone able to furnish this 
information address “Pining,” care 
for us.
' “There ain’t no ’uice,5' said the 
Swede motorman disappointedly as 
he hung himself from the trolley.—• 
Burr.
Some of the “student gentlemen” 
who come over here for lunoh don’t 
seem to greatly appreciate the Sen­
iors walking into the lunchroom 
ahead of them. Perhaps if they would 
casually remark, very loudly, that 
they are about to starve, some gra­
cious dignitary might stand aside and 
allow a few of the “famished ones” 
to dash ahead.
N. B. Householders — You would 
have been terribly perturbed, mah 
deah, if you had heard that young 
Plebe remark the other evening, 
when asked if slie planned to spec­
ialize in Institutional Management or 
Dietetics: " “Oh—I don’t want any­
thing like that—I’m taking the Do­
mestic Science Course, you know.” 
P. S'.—Every word of this is true.
There is a gréât deal of specula­
tion around Margaret Morrison this 
year among the admirers olf one of 
our “novel faculty.” Why the. girls 
have even taken to betting money- 
even nickels. A girl from one of 
our richest families bet a dime that 
it wasn’t so. The question beifore 
some of the quering ones is “What 
Has Charlie Galt?” ’ The most des­
perate ones have gone a little farther
Schenley Dancing Club
PresentsNelson Maples 
Orchestra
of Clarksburg, W. Va. 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
BALL ROOM 
SATURDAY, OCT. 22 j
Shadyside 
Barber Shop
JOS. E. KRUMM, Prop. 
5522 WALNUT STREET
CITMAS CLUB TONIGHT
The Citnias Club will hold ai social 
meeting in the Industries. Club room 
‘tomorrow night, Thursday, October 
20. There will be a program of 
stunts, refreshments, smokes, will be 
served. All Masons on the campus 
are invited to attend.
TECH ORCHESTRA TO
CHANGE ITS NAME
A more representative name has 
been adopted by Hughes’ Orchestra. 
The combination will be known as 
“The Collegiate Six.” There is , no 
change in the personnel, consequently j 
the same high grade music will be 
furnished.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
SYSTEMATIZE YOUR 
FINANCES 
System in handling your 
income is essential.
Deposit regularly — pay by 
check — periodically increase 
your saving account — set 
aside each month a fixed sum 
for investment.
We cordially welcome your 
account, even though it be 
small.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts hÄcdh. Pa.
You always “look around” 
when new season brings new 
garments, and correct shoes are 
quite as important.
So please accept our invitation 
to stop in and see the new shoe 
styles for Fall—never were they 
more beautiful, or more varied.
New Fall Shoes 
nbw in stock.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
end runs were cut down to almost 
nothing by the brilliant performance 
of Godden and Potter for Tech. Off- 
taclcle plays were nipped in the bud 
by Sprinkle and Comfort. Rosenbloom 
and Henderson were ever in the game, 
throwing Wash-Jeff men for no gain 
time and again.
The game was played under the 
most ideal weather conditions, per­
haps a least bit warm, but this fact 
coupled with the absence of rain dur­
ing the past week tended to make the 
.field fast, and soft. The attendance 
was the largest ever turned out in 
Little Washington, coming close to 
the 12,000. mark. Eveiy available seat 
was taken, and the crowd thronged 
out all around the field. Spectators
were even roosting in the tree tops,
and gazing upon the spectacle from 
the windows of various buildings 
around about the field.
The Lineup.
W. & J. Tech.
Kopf ....................L. E................ Potter
Stein ....................L. T............. Comfort
Neal ....................L. G........ Henderson
Crook ...................C...................... Irwin
Perkins...............R. G......Rosenbloom
Weiderquist ...R. T............ Sprinkle
Ivnovolinka ____R. E................ Godden
fairness to Robertson, he is entirely McLaughlin ........Q............. Robertson
glllllM
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech. 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
| Fred Pargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY i
Squirrel Hill Tailoring Company
Work Called for and Delivered.
Suits Dry Cleaned, Sponged and Pressed
Alterations Our Specialty.
1921 MURRAY AVENUE PHONE—HAZEL 1753
RVE CENTS
B130
The Flavor Lasts!
exonerated by everybody for he had 
played the most brilliant game of any­
one 011 both teams throughout the 
game, and by this time was worn out 
in physical strength through continual 
downs after brilliant runs. His run­
ning was the prettiest ever seen on 
College Field, while his field general­
ship was all that could have been 
asked for.
Next; to Robertson, Brumbaugh was 
the outstanding star for Tech. His 
brilliant, picking of holes to plunge 
through wore the direct causo of many 
gains. Time and time again he 
plunged through for long gains, his 
best was a break over right tackle for 
an eigliteon-yard gain.
The whole line performed in its cus­
tomary wonderful style, as shown in 
the , fact that only four first downs 
were made against them during the 
whole game, and these came as a re­
sult of forward passes. Erickson’s
Erickson ..........L. H. .............. Sawyer
Brinkert    ........R. H............ Anderson
Basista............. F...........Brumbaugh
Score by periods:
Tech ............................ 0 0 0 0—0
W. & J.......................... 0 0 7 7—14
Touchdowns—Kopf, Erickson.
Goals from touchdowns—Stein 2.
Substitutions- -W. & J., Vince for 
Perkins, Wowt for Erickson, Buchanan 
lor Crook, Vick for Basista. Hogan for 
McLaughlin, Basista for Vick. Erick­
son for West. Crook for Buchanan. 
Spillers for Ivnovolinka; Carnegie 
Tech. Zelt for Henderson. Weirman 
for Robertson, Newman for Godden. 
TIable for Potter, Mills for Brum­
baugh, H. Pottei* for Anderson, Lewis 
for Sawyer.
Roferee—Janies Durfee (Williams).
Umpire—Fred Crolins (Dartmouth).
Head Linesman — Holderness (Le­
high).
Time of quarters—15 minutes.
Preacher for Students
The Rev. R. Emory Beetham, 
D. D., minister of the Oak­
land Methodist Churchi 
Forbes and Boquet Streets, 
was selected for this pulpit 
with special reference to the 
students. Dr. Beetham was 
with the “Boys” in France 
for eight months. He was a 
college president for seven 
years. He knows college stu­
dents and has a message for 
them.
HEAR HIM REGULARLY
Sunday Mornings at Eleven.
Vagabond Club, Bible 
Classes, Game Rooms, Social 
groups specially arranged for 
students.
RICHARD B. CALLAHAN 
DR. BEETHAM Director Student Work.
THE CHURCH HOUSE IS ALWAYS OPEN FOR STUDENTS
TmriiiiiiintnTroTBiiniinniiiPUiniiiiiiiiiiiTiuiiniiimnii!iiinnitiiiniiiii:iii;iiiiniiiiiiuniimniniiiniiiniinnmimnni!mniinniiHiiimiiniinnnreiinT

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1921THE TARTANPAGE THREE
GOOD TENNIS 
TOURNAMENT
Everhard Shows Up Fine in 
Play Witti Kemery 
and Rhodes
Favored "with, good weather the 
tennis tournament has advanced rap­
idly—not so rapidly as hoped for— 
but at the same time, with as great 
rapidity as possible, due to the stress 
of classes and the difficulty of oppo­
nents getting in touch with each 
other—until at the present writing 
the semi-finals are just about ready 
to be played, and wrill be played on 
one of the afternoons of this'week.
The interest shown by the com­
peting players has been fine, and the 
competition spirited, due to the large 
number of experienced players en­
tered, and also d<ue to the enthusiasm 
which each individual man has put 
into his play. The old men, that i6 
to say, the men who have been con 
nected with tennis at Carnegie Tech 
during the past, have each shown a 
wonderfully improved game, while
there are many newcomers who show 
signs of de-throning those who have 
held the limelight in the past.
Berno, of last year’s squad, has 
shown the greatest improvement per­
haps of all the last year’s men. His 
game this year is well balanced, and 
at times bordering upon the sensa­
tional. Hauser, also of last year’s 
squad, also shows an improvement. 
Hauser has always been a most dan­
gerous opponent for any player, but 
this year, is even more so. Copley 
shows signs of a return to the form 
which won for him- lrisi varsity letter 
in 1918, and bids fair to oust some of 
the regular performers of the past 
two years. 'Stahlman, who held a po­
sition on the team throughout the 
season, is playing the same good game 
which won for him that position above 
each of the above named performers. 
Each of these men have played 
through the early rounds of the tour­
nament and show signs of being one 
of the contenders for highest honors 
in the finals.
Among the new men who have 
shown good form and therefore pre­
sent all the proper credentials for a 
strong fight t.o represent Tech on the 
courts next spring are Kemery, Ever­
hard, Rhodes and H. N. Smith. Ever­
hard, due to his decisive victory over 
both Kemery and Rhodes seems to
Robertso i Skirting Left End For 20 Yards
have a slight edge over these fo\u* 
men. His victory over Kemery was 
one in which he was compelled to 
show a most steady and at the same 
time, brilliant game. He clearly out­
played his opponent in the last two 
sets, and was himself outclassed in 
the first set. His > drives were all 
netted or either outed in the first 
set, while in the latter sets it was just 
the opposite, his accurate and hard! 
driving to the side lines made Kemery 
either err at the net, or to completely 
miss. The scores were 2-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
Everhard continued his good work 
the following day by defeating Rhodes 
In straight sets, 6-2, 6-4. Rhode's of­
fered a hard driving game, but very 
erratic. Somehow or other he does 
not seem to' put the punch and fight 
into the game that is necessary for 
good tournament play. His form on 
the forehand drive is perfect, and the 
ball bounds off his racket with the 
speed of a cannon-ball, and when 
hitting in the court is well-night un- 
returnajble. Everhard opposed this 
game with a game of the same type, 
but bordering on the steady and ac­
curate rather than the erratic. Just 
this difference is the difference which 
meant victory and defeat.
TECH RE8ERVES
BEAT BUTLER HIGH
The Reserves played their second 
game of the season at Butler, Pa., 
Saturday, October 15.
Both teams played a hard game. 
The Reserves completed several 
good passes and Butler showed fine 
work at passing.
In the first quarter Mason and 
Maurer each made a touchdown, but 
after the second no' goal , was kicked, 
leaving the score 13 to 0. The sec­
ond quarter marked better playing by 
the Reserves who chalked up an­
other touchdown. ' During the third 
quarter the Reserves, had the ball 
within six inches of Butler’s goal but
Out-Flaying-, Out-Fighting W. & J.—Diagrams Shows How
fumbled and the Butlerites recover 
ed it. They kicked to the 25-yard 
line, from which Coaoh Park’s men 
rushed it back and over Tor another 
touchdown, making the score 27 to> 0. 
In the last ' quarter both teams 
ifought hard to score but neither 
was able to.
The ball ¡was kept on Butler’s ter­
ritory most of the game. Mason and 
Maurer starred for the Reserves and 
McDowell and Turner for Butler 
High. Bright kicked the goals for 
Tech.
" TECH
Newman—36 
Robertson—56 
Bru mb auglu— 4 4 
Andèrson—42 
Sawyer—5S 
Godden—12 
Weirman—64 
Lewis—4S 
Mills—50
Bren Ice,rt—3 
Erickson—5 
I-Ioan—29 
Basista—41 
Kopf—39 
Sttîin—13 
West—9 
McLaughlin—7
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. L. MOERSFELDER
Nikola Tesla
THE NAME of Nikola Tesla will always 
be associated with the invention and earlier 
developments of the induction motor. In fact, 
at one time this type of apparatus was known 
almost exclusively as the “Tesla” motor.
Tesla devised this motor back near the be­
ginnings of the electrical business,. when prac­
tically everything was built by “cut and try” 
methods^nd none of the accurate analytical proc­
esses of later days had been developed. It may be 
said broadly that Tesla knew two fundamental 
facts—first, that if a magnet were moved across 
a sheet of conducting metal, it would tend to 
drag this metal along; and,—second, that the 
effects of such a moving magnet could be pro­
duced by suitably disposed polyphase currents 
acting on a stationary magnetic structure.
Perhaps others, at that time, also knew these 
two facts, but if so, apparently1 they knew them 
only as two isolated facts. Tesla considered 
them in combination and the result was the 
Tesla motor, or what is now known broadly as 
the “induction motor.” These two facts, in 
combination, represent a fundamental concep­
tion, and all of the many millions of horsepower 
of induction motors in use today throughout the 
world, are based upon these two fundamentals.
Naturally, Westinghouse, having fought single 
handed to advance the alternating current system, 
was supremely interested in the new type of 
motor. What if the new motor did require
polyphase circuits, while all existing circuits 
were single phase? What if it did require 
lower frequency than any existing commercial 
circuits? These were merely details of the future 
universal alternating system. The important 
thing was to obtain an ideally simple type of 
alternating current motor, which Tesla’s inven­
tion offered. Tesla furnished the fundamental idea.
He and his associates, working for Mr. West­
inghouse, proved that thoroughly operative 
induction motors could be built, provided suitable 
frequencies and phases were available. What 
matter if they did not produce an operative 
commercial system at the time? What matter if 
it needed the powerful analytical engineers of 
later date to bring the system to a truly prac­
ticable stage—men with intimate constructive 
knowledge of magnetic circuits—men on intimate 
terms with reactive coefficients and other magnetic 
attributes totally unknown to Tesla and his co- 
workers? In time the motor was made com­
mercial, and it has been a tremendous factor in 
revolutionizing the electrical industry.
Probably no one electrical device has had more 
high-power analytical and mathematical ability 
expended upon it than the induction motor. 
The practical result has been one of the simplest 
and most effective types of power machinery in 
use today. Thus Tesla’s fundamental ideas and 
Westinghouse’s foresight have led to an enormous 
advance in the world’s development.
HOSPITALITY
Although the reception given Teehi by W. & J. last Saturday was very 
good it was veiy noticeable that it was not as cordial as Tech gives her 
visitors.
Techites know that whenever they have visitors at games, that the grand­
stand is none too good a place for their guests, the best, seats on the field. 
Saturday, the Carnegie rooters were given seats at. the end of the Hold, a 
place whlere it was not possible to see most of the plays. It would seem that 
for this one game, when so many out-of-town spectators were present, that 
arrangements might be made to accommodate them with hotter seats, tho 
others would give up the good seats for just one game, for surely College 
field never saw a. crowd like last Saturday’s.
Tech is to be complimented for her hospitality, and may she continue to 
show that her visitors are welcome, by giving them the best, she has.
HELP1
Well, friends, I was in to see my 
friend Manager I-Inaren last Friday. 
When 1 went in ho was looking like 
one of those turkeys that you read 
aobut in the Gazette Times' last 
week, that had lost its blankot. I 
asked him what was worrying him 
and ho saidi that it was tho Pelin 
State Stamp Campaign again, or 
ratiher yot. 1-Ie said that It looked 
like all Tech had its money tied up 
on the W. & J. game and couldn’t 
ibuy unthing. The man who sells 
the stamps down in the storo room 
has been asleep all week except once 
when the janitor woke him to toll 
him to move so that he could sweep 
under his chair, so the manager 
says. I asked him about that prize 
money the fellows were expecting 
to ' »bring back from Washington 
with them. Ho said that I had 
given him an idea and that he would 
borrow an R. O. T. C. pistol and 
hold up the fellows as they came 
home and make them buy stamps. I 
toldl him not to be too rash and he 
said that he had to do something to 
save the campaign. Now folks, I 
have been watching the police news 
and the cash register but I haven’t 
seen anything or anybody new in! 
eiitiher so I guese his trick didn’t 
work. We now have only three 
weeks until the big game with 
Penn State and it looks like no one 
is going wibh the team. I know that 
cash, is scarce, but somebody must 
have it and I believe that that guy 
is in Tech. Can’t he loosen up and 
take someone with him? I have been 
buying until my landlady says that 
if I don’t stop bringing those fake 
postage stamps liorre she’ll have me 
arrested as a counterfeiter. The 
situation is really serious and needs 
the immediate su/pport of the stu­
dent body. The team fights and 
suffers for YOU. Let’s give them 
our support. Buy Stamps and Go 
with the Team!
The “kids” and Tech rooters were 
accorded the same treatment in the 
seating arrangements; the. kids are 
there every week too.
Griddcrs to Tackle
St. lionaventure Next
Saturday, Tech will face tho St. 
Bonavonturo eleven, reputed to ho 
tho best ever produced at that col­
lege. Tho Alleghony, N. Y,( griddors 
have played some hard» gamps so 
ìl’ar th 1T season, having hold Ilio 
jmlght’y Colgate eleven to a 7 to 7 tlo, 
and being dcCealod' by both Oornoll. 
and Grove City,
The New York Stators have an 
excellent 'dofonsivo and remarkable 
aerial attack, These tactics should 
make them a formidable opponent for 
the Plaid, 'I lie Bonavonturo onda 
are fast, and tho backllcld men are 
there with a. rapid getaway. in all, 
tho team Is one to watch as every 
available trlclc will be used against 
the Skibo eleven.
The lineup:
Tech. St. Bonaventure.
Potter ...................L. E...... Martineau
'Comfort ..........L. T.................. Borgor
Henderson ... .L. G.... Cunningham
Irwin ..................C................. Kelley
Rosenblooni ....It. G................Paisley
Siprinkle .......It. T........... Lawless
Godden .................R. E.......... Eppolate
Weirman .........Q. B................... Barry
Sawyer .................L. II.... Oberi andier
Anderson ........R. II......................Luece
Brumbaugh ____F. B. Reilly
When the football squad of W. & 
J. ran across the field, Tech rooters 
thought everybody at the Washing­
ton College was out for football. 
They were further convinced of this 
when they glanced at the cheering 
section and found it about the same 
size as the football squad. s
MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Luncli—40c 
A Students’ Restaurant 
For the Students 
Reasonable Prices.
PLAID ATHLETICS
W©$tiiMshouse
Brumbaugh Plows Thru Center For 8 Yards

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1921
NOTICE, ALUMNIIM.M. ALUMNAE 
BAKE SALE
M.M. ALUMNAE 
TO SEE PLAYCLAN NEWSThere are 200 Tech men ami women 
graduates out of employment.
There are 500 students looking for 
part-time work.
Can you help any of them?
You are elected employment man­
ager for one of these men or -women 
—Don't fall.
Keep your eyes and ears open for 
jobs of any kind. lA. line or a wire 
(collect) to the Alimmi-Student Place­
ment Bureau may put a Tech man in 
a good job. Do your bit for an unem­
ployed Tecliite. YOU MAY BE IN 
THE SAME BOAT SOME DAY.
Last week a letter from a Philadel­
phia Clan member resulted in placing 
two men In Pittsburgh in a job that 
he had heard of in an indirect-way.
Try your luck!
W. ili. Rieger, ’08, Chief Metallur­
gist of cthe 'Sizer Forge Company, 
Buffalo, N. Y., paid the Alumni Office 
a visit last week. Mr. Rieger is 
vitally interested in Tech and ar- 
sures that the Buffalo Clan -will be 
on the map this year. Tech men 
and women in Buffalo get in touch 
with Mr. Rieger at once.
Men and women in Clan districts 
get in touch at once with the Secre­
tary, giving your address so that 
his roeter may be completed for the 
year.
Look up your Clan directory.
On the evening of November 9th, 
(Wednesday), students of the Drama 
School will produce Pinero's “The 
Thunderbolt” for the entertainment 
of Margaret Morrison Alumnae and 
their friends. A number of our girls 
have been enthusiastic attendants at 
the productions of the Drama School 
and they vouch for the statement that 
you will miss a treat if you do not 
conje. ‘Secure your tickets at once. 
Remember you can not ibuy them. But 
you may have as many as you wish 
if you will send a self-addressed »and 
stamped envelope to Florence Bechtel, 
Purchasing Office, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. Come and bring your 
friends.
The regular monthly luncheon o£ 
the Pittsburg Clan will be held at 
12:10 p. m., Fort Pitt Hotel, Thurs- 
;d‘ay, November 3. Mr. Frank j. 
Lanahan, member of the Board of 
Trustees, will ibe the guest of honor.
‘THE SONG OF SONGS'for The Confederation of Women’s 
Clubs will be given this afternoon at 
four o’clock and another Friday af­
ternoon at the same hour for students, 
no tickets are required. , Beginning 
today and each evening for the re­
mainder o" the weelc all who have 
not seen this splendid production will 
have an opportunity to do so.
The “Thunderbolt” is scheduled for 
production November 'Second.- Tills 
is a modern play in four acts under 
the direction of Mr. Wallace.
(Continuer! ’ From Page One)
The most onerous part is that of the 
woman in the case, the Shulamite. 
This reviewer isi surely not blind to 
Miss Lissfelt’s wistful grace, but it 
would be an exaggeration to say that 
she is equal to this exacting role. In 
the earlier and lighter scenes she is 
effective, but in scenes three and 
four she is driven to force her voice 
to harshness, and to express her 
agonies by audible * panting. It is 
simply that she is called upon to por­
tray emotions which she is not ma­
ture enough to compass. Mr. Lubin's 
work as King iSolomon is uneven. In 
his first scene he is the feared, if not 
revered, crowned megalomaniac, the 
Oriental despot. In appearance he is 
happily like one of those stalking As­
syrian kings who appear in the bas- 
relieifs with a plaited beard and a 
wrist watch. In the seraglio, he is 
appropriately gross and covetous, 
though it seems needless to remind 
one of the night before Babylon fell 
(in the movies). Unlike his beard, 
his is an untrimmed talent. While Mr. 
McClure is not quite at ease in a 
sheep-skin and poetic prose, he is 
agreeable and even poignant in two 
trying scenes. It seems only fair to 
mention the excellent pantomime of 
Mr. Hertz (The Vizier), the appear­
ance of the other ladies and gentle­
men of the ensemble need no cen­
sure.
“The Song of Songs” is a timely 
reminder that Biblical literature is 
not onty instructive but interesting.
Owing to the popularity of the play 
additional performances will be ad­
ded this week. A special matinee
Eugene Dowling, ’09, manager of 
Steel Works Division, Johns-Man- 
ville Company, who has been in their 
New York office has been transferred 
for, an indefinite time to the Pitts­
burgh branch office. We are glad to 
have Mr. Dowling with us again and 
you can bet he is going to be a live 
wire (for the Pittsburgh Clan.
our only touchdown by 'receiving a 
forward pass from Quarterback Kes- 
ner, holding Pitt to the low score 
of 14 to 6.
D. A. “Jted” Nemser, ’19, Chemist 
and K. K. Knaell, ’20, electrical en­
gineer with MacBeth Evans Glass 
'Comipany, Charleroi, Pa., were pres­
ent at the Tech-Westminster game. 
“Red” was a member of the football 
team in 1917. Both men are live wires 
in Charleroi Clan ancl we can expect 
real things from them this year.
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason­
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
C. L. Lappley .of Harrisburg, and 
Henry Shaub of Lancaster, former 
student, drove to the Tech-W. & J. 
game last Saturday.
ATTENTION! CLASSES! 
Margaret Morrison AlumnaeMrs. Gy W. DeLong who will be 
remembered as Agnes Wright of the 
1917 M. M. Class, visited the Alumni 
Office recently. She lias ' returned 
to her home in Evanston, 111.
FâjîJï Avenue Boot Shop
near 48th Street. New York.Have you organized yet? If not, get 
busy at once or you may miss some­
thing! Every class should have an 
effective organization so itp members 
can be reached easily and quickly 
when there is news of interest or 
work to be done. Tickets for social 
functions, are usually distributed 
through some class officer. If you 
have none, then you lose out. 'Send 
in the names of your officers, espe­
cially that of your secretary, toJEdna 
C. iSmitli, 5941 Alder street.
NOTICE! CLASS OF 1920
MASTER MADE FOOTWEARYour Class Representative Mary 
Cummings Keaney, being out of 
town, you will not be represented 
on the Executive Board until some 
one is elected to fill her place. Bet­
ter get busy at once.
Fred C. Beede, ’19, instructor South 
High -School, Youngstown, Pa., and 
R. P. Woodward,/20', formerly chief 
estimator for Carnegie Land Co., 
Pittsburgh, attended the Tech-W. & 
J. game. Both are members of the 
Youngstown Clan and real Tech 
boosters.
Fred Carts, our star twirler of the 
1912 Varsity, dropped in last week. 
Fred became famous when lie pitched 
a no hit game against Pitt in 1912 
and the game ended with Tech on 
the high side of a 0 to 0 score. Fred 
is pitching good bail now for the 
Reading club of the International 
League.
Exhibit Shops* 
in all the larger cities.MARGARET MORRISON
ALUMNAE TEA
PLEBES 
If your clothes need to be 
cleaned, pressed or mended, call 
Schenley 389.
Suits called for and delivered. 
Prices Reasonable.
MISS O’LEARY 
3933 FORBES
ALUMNI FEDERATION
The regular monthly meeting 
of the Beard of Directors, Alum­
ni Federation will meet Wednes­
day, October 26, at 7:30 p. m., 
in the Alumni Office.HI [|]
i AmericanRestaerant |
fj 3808 FORBES ST. Ia a1 We serve cleanest food §j 
a at a reasonable price. I 
| Open Day and Night. 1
H li
ie'MSEMSMSMSJSMS/SMSMSMSMSMSMSi
FOR BEST RESULTS 
SEE US
THE TECH SHOE 
REPAIR SHOP
TECH COHORTS StARTLE
LITTLE WASHINGTON
(Continued From Page One) 
the flood. Anyhow, It took the last 
cars they had on hand to make up the 
fourtli; section and off we were.
About one-fourtli of the people of 
Washington kneeled down in silent 
prayer and thanked the powers that 
be that they were well back of the 
firing line during the war. Prayed 
with all their might that the Lord 
would see them safely through that 
day. Why? Tech was up in numbers 
far bqyond their wildest expectations 
and they saw that something of a 
surprise was'.on hand. You can’t get 
2,000 people to follow a bunch of 
IiAMS and I honestly believe that’s 
what they thought the Tech team 
was.
Anyhow, THE pee-arde started from 
the Chestnut street station and went 
through town to the field. An exhibi­
tion of our lung powers was given at 
the 'Court House, so that they all 
wouldn’t drop dead if we had waited 
until we got on the field and then all 
headed for the scene of the encounter.
A cheering battle took place here 
with Tech having the shade on W. & 
J., but a sipirit of friendly rivalry be­
tween the two. Right here we want 
to hand it to our opponents for. the 
fine spirit they showed toward Teen 
at every stage of the game. It was 
quite a contrast to the exhibition put 
up at Wheeling last year and gave 
evidence that malice for Tech was a 
thing far removed from the heart of 
W. & J. As hosts of the occasion 
the cheering section showed a true 
spirit of sportsmanship.
Tech never-let up on their lungs 
¦ until the last man was “out in the 
ninth” and as an exhibition of Tech 
pep the occasion stands as a land­
mark and turnirg point. Were we 
defeated? I guess not, and any man 
that saw the game and hasn’t a higher 
opinion of that team than he ever 
had before ought to be hung. Why, 
man, Pitt lost to Lafayette and don’t 
think for a minute that they’re the 
least bit discouraged over- there 
about it. So brace up and stick be­
hind the team and get to State if you 
have to walk. Remember there’s bet­
ter teams than W. & J. left on tho 
schedule for us to trim and watch 
that team spring a surprise!
As for little Washington, today is 
Thanksgiving Day up there and while 
everything used to date from the flood 
they will now trace everything from 
the day Tech came to town.
ST. ANDREW’S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Center and Morewood Avenues. 
Rev. Henry P. Eckhardt, Pastor.
Sunday Services—10:45 A. M. 
and 7:45 P. M.; Young Peoples’ 
Bible Classes—9:30 A. M.
A special welcome to students. 
All seats aVe free.
HOME COOKING
MOTHER DOES THE BAKING
Pleasonton Lunch 
4527 FORBES ST.
SPECIAL
14-Piece
DRAWING
SETMURAD
THE TURKISH PAGETWOOW
Every, day MURADS art held 
higher in the estimation of the men 
who smoke them.
They are the standard of Taste.
They • never disappoint—never 
fail—never change—
They are 100.% pure Turkish to­
bacco—of the finest varieties grown.
You are proud to smoke them 
in any company—on any occasion.
They are the largest selling high- 
grade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers ofAmerica 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.’
“Judge for Yourself—/ ”
410 MARKET ST.
Opp. McCann’s.
giniinmiiiininmmiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiDWQiimiiiiMnnnimnimiiniiijiiiBiniiniiiiiiamaniitmuuiDinniiiiiiiiiiiunimiiiiiiimiiniuiniiiiiiiniDiiiniinnnniiiiiiniiuiDniiiii:
ANDERSON’S
HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS 
| 3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Tlieater
SggtS
a«VSCW......
L SWWEB 0T
baffi
6100 PENN AVENUE
FOUND
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
A small “Carnegie” banner. Apply 
Dean Tarbell’s office.Member of A. N. A. M. of D.
BELL PHONE
Never chase after a woman or a 
street car. There will be another 
along in a minute or two. They don’t 
come so often after midnight, but 
they go faster.
Classes each evening.Private lessons daily.
cud lyjptenGprcCain íkHMÍA SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
ALUMNI PAGE
200 ALUMNÍ-500 STUDEHS-WAfff A JOB-HELP!
