FOOTBALL RALLY 
Tech Field 
7:45 Thursday31it ©arlan
P E E - R A D E 
EaSt Liberty Station 
8:40 A. M., Friday
VOL. XV. No. 6.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.OCTOBER 27, 1920.
Board of Student Adivities
Eledt Officers at Fir^l Meeting
J. W. Batman Chosen President
Important Acflions Taken—
Policy of the Board Explained
The first meeting of the Board of 
Student Activities for . 1920-21 was 
held on Wednesday evening, October 
20th. The election of officers for the 
enusing year resulted as follows:
James W. Bateman, president.
S. V. Williams, vice president.
Josephine Whitney, secretary.
Mr. C. B. Schmidt had been elected 
treasurer at the last meeting of the 
board for' 1919-20. •
After receiving and approving the 
reports of the treasurer ^this report 
was published in the Tartan, Septem­
ber 27th, 1920) the, Board of Miscel­
laneous Publications, the 1919-20 Tar- 
lan, the 1921 Thistle, and the 1921 
Band, the following actions were 
voted:
1. That Article 6, Section 1 of the 
board’s constitution be changed to 
read "Regular meetings to be held 
the first and third Wednesdays of 
each month during the college year.”
2. That a sum not to exceed $300 
be appropriated to buy ten uniform 
coats ana caps for the C. 1. T. Band, 
bringing the strength of the Banu 
irom 3U to 40 members.
3. That $450 be not appropriated to 
the Band to help defray expenses of 
a trip to the Lehigh football game, as 
tins item had not been included in the 
budget for the year, and was too large 
to take out of the contingency fund.
4. That the Bank be authorized to 
spend !j>lo6 for new instruments.
5. That the resignation of Nelson 
P. Rice as manager of the Board of 
Miscellaneous Publications, be ac­
cepted, and that J. D. Evans be ap­
pointed his successor.
. Xj. That a sum not to exceed $35 be 
appropriated for the purchase of a 
typewriter for the use of the mana­
gers of the various organizations.
7. That a concession be granted to 
the Athletic Association to conduct a 
check room in connection with events 
in Carnegie Union on the understand­
ing that the checking charge shall be 
5c per person (10c per couple) with 
no tips.
8. That the resignation of Luther S. 
Lashmit as Senior Arts representative 
be accepted.
9. That a committee of three be 
pointed to confer with the Radio Club 
and report at next •meeting. Mr. Cor- 
derman, representing the Radio Club, 
presented to the board a petition that 
the club be recognized as a student 
activity.
For the benefit of the large num­
ber of new students at Tech this year, 
Mr. J. W. Batman, president of the 
board, makes the tollowing state­
ment concerning its work:
The Student Activities Board, on 
which all interests at Tech are repre­
sented, day students, night students, 
aiumm and faculty, has the control 
and supervision of all' recognized non- 
athletic student activities, the names 
cf wmon appear below, '.i lie board 
furnishes financial backing to these 
various activities, and has in years 
past made up wnatever ueficics nave 
occurred.
While the board is empowered by 
its constitution J;o “control” the va­
rious non-athletic organizations, a 
Very liberal interpretation is placed 
upon this word. L'he board is more 
concerned in outlining general policies 
which will act to the benefit of Tech 
activities in the future than in direct­
ing the details of the organizations 
winch compose it. Each organization 
under the board has its own. manage­
ment, which is practically in full con­
trol of the organization s work. The 
ooard is- desirous that each activity 
shall work out its own development, 
andisanxious to assist and encourage 
it in every wap. The manager of 
each citivity is required to suDimt to 
the board monthly reports covering 
progress and finances.
The board operates on a budget 
made up of its share of the Student 
Activities Fee. Two dollars of the 
$10 activity fee paid by each day 
student goes to the board, and $1 of 
the $5 fee paid by night students.
The folowing activities are at pres­
ent under the supervision of the 
board: Carnegie Musical Clubs, C. 1. 
T. Girls’ Musical Clubs, C. I. T. Band, 
The Thistle, The Tartan, C. 1. T. 
Technical Journal, Carnegie Union, 
and Board of Miscellaneous Publica­
tions.In addition, the board financed in 
whole, or in part, the following events 
last year: Fall Festival, Campus
Week, and Dance for all night stu­
dents.
For the current year, in addition to 
the organizations listed in the second 
paragraph preceding, the board will 
give financial support to the follow­
ing: M. M. D. Guild, V. W. C. A., M. 
M. D. Senate, Student Handbooks, 
and Night School Dance.
All actions taken by the board at 
its fortnightly meetings are published 
in the next following issue of The 
Tartan.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
Many topics of common interest 
were discussed at the Industries As­
sembly last Wednesday at 12:30 P. M.
F. C. Fisher responded to the call 
for a voluntary cheer leader, and a 
few yells were given. Fisher also 
announced that the Sophs had given 
the Plebes a “hot reception,” with 
the exception of one, and he was given 
a “cold reception” in the tank. An­
other victim who has been parading 
our campus in modish “evening dress” 
came before the assembly and re­
moved his togs. Candidates were 
called for the Soph football team, 
which is expected to prove a hard 
nut to crack for thei other class teams.
H. C. Hammond, president of the 
assembly, announced that al\ class 
treasurers should get busy and col­
lect from each man the Student Coun­
cil fee. This is the only fund which 
makes it possible for the Student 
Council to carry on its activities. 
He yalso called the students’ atten­
tion to the rules against smoking in­
side the Industries buildings and rea­
sons for this ruling.
“Hockey” was the topic discussed 
by Mr. Martin. A hard schedule is 
being arranged for this year’s hockey 
team. / Mr. Martin wants all men 
who can skate and play to come out 
and try for the team. The Duquesne 
Garden has been obtained on option 
for our home games.
A motion was passed that at the 
assembly next Wednesday a straw 
vote should be taken on the Presiden­
tial candidates. If you want to hear 
some stump speeches come to the In­
dustries Assembly next Wednesday, 
and come early, for the number of 
seats are limited.
“Who will hike to Wheeling?” was 
the question asked by H. W. Lynn. 
On November 13 the football team 
plays Bethany at Wheeling, and plans 
are under way for a great number of 
Tech students to “beat their way” to 
Wheeling and see our team beat Beth­
any. If you are interested, see Lynn 
this week.
E OLDFIELD” PLEASES CLEVELAND AUDIENCE
FIELD ID BE SCENE TECH OF BIG FOOTFALL RALLY
On Thursday evening, October 28, 
at 7:45, Tech Field will become the 
scene of one of the largest, footbali 
rallies in its history. Friday morning 
at 8:30 the team leaves for Lehigh; 
As the distance is too great to allow 
many rooters to accompany the play­
ers, this big pep meeting has been 
planned to give them a real send-off: 
to show them that there is 100 per 
cent Tech behind them.
The Lehigh game will be the turn­
ing point in the Tartan schedule, upon 
it hinge our chances to beat W. & J.
The student body will assemble in 
the stands at 7:45; the entire program 
so that studies or previous date:- 
the hour and the time limit were made 
will be over by 8:30. The earliness of 
would not be conflicted with. Fully 
2,000 students are expected to turn 
out for this occasion and many town 
people are invited to attend.
The players and coaches will be 
guests of honor.
The program for the evening in­
clude songs, cheers, fire formations, 
short, snappy speeches and a big 
Plebe bonfire.
ART EXHIBITION
There is an exhibition of work done 
by various instructors of the division 
in the exhibition room of Design. Mr. 
Ashe has two war posters and several 
oil paintings. Mr. Bicknell has land­
scapes done both in America and 
France. Mr. Hubbel is represented 
by two copie sof Talasquey and also 
some portraits and studies in oil. Mr. 
Taylor has an oil sketch done in his 
beloved Maine. Miss Topp and Mr. 
Peferovets are well represented. Pre­
liminary sketches for sculpture work 
anil photographs of finished pieces 
show the fine quality of Mr. Nebel’s 
work. Mr. Ellington and Mr. llorn- 
bostle of the Architecture School 
have several pieces each. The former 
has some line water color or dietec- 
tural renderings and two landscapes, 
while the latter lias some interiors 
and several country houses done in 
crayon. Both Mr. Sollom and Mr. 
Stevens have groups of small land­
scapes done in oil. The former also 
has several pencil drawings. Mr. l)i 
Nardo has some charming landscapes 
done in water color. The exhibit is 
well worth taking time to see.
Former Psychology Head Chosen 
President of Northwestern Univ.
Col. Walter Dill Scott Firit
Graduate to Head Alma Mater
Awarded Distinguished Service Medal
Colonel Walter Dill Scctt, whose 
appointment to the presidency of 
Northwestern University has just 
be^n announced, was for three years 
connected with the Division of Ap­
plied Psychology of the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology. It was here 
that in 1916 he was appointed to the 
first professorship of applied psycho-, 
logy ever established in an American 
institution, having been granted a 
leave of absence from Northwestern
six months at LeRop, 111., and had 
completed the year as principal of 
schools in Hudson, 111. In 1895 Prof. 
Scott received the degree of B. A. 
¦from Northwestern University, and in 
1900 he received the degree of Ph. 1). 
from Leipsic University for notable 
work in psychology and educational 
administration.
In 1900 he was appointed instruc­
tor in psychology and education and
. director of the psychological labora University to come to the Carnegi^ ..... 0f Northwestern. In 1905 he
was made professor of psychology 
mil head of the department of psy-
The performance of Charles Reade’s 
“Nance Oldfield” in the Little Theatre 
last Wednesday afternoon marked the 
opening of the 1920-21 season of plays 
to be presented by the School of 
Drama. The play was presented in 
honor of the Cleveland Builders’ Ex­
change, who were visiting- the school, 
and they proved a very appreciative 
audience indeed.
The play was in rehearsal only 
four days, and was a colossal under­
taking on such short notice, but the 
whole cast gave a most satisfactory 
performance. The part of Nance Old­
field, which was played by Ellen 
Terry at one time, proves a very good 
exercise for the principal actress in 
the piece. Naturally, it was a diffi­
cult task for Sarah Morrison, who 
played Nance, but she gave a most 
creditable performance, considering 
the little experience she has had and 
the short time she had to “get into” 
the role. She had a lot of good ideas 
which, it seemed, she had not had 
quite time to really get hold of. She 
did not make the most of her big mo­
ments, and could have used larger, 
more iinpressive gestures, especially 
.in the last part, to good advantage.
Dolly Paxton, as the country cousin 
of Nance, was very pretty and very 
funny. She clowned a little too much 
perhaps, but the p'lay is artificial 
enough to allow of some latitude in 
interpretation.'
Lawrence Paquin, as Nathan Old- 
wcrthy, gave a definite characteriza­
tion of the irate father. In a part 
which ran the gamut from fierce 
anger to tears and back again in less 
than a minute, he handled a very 
difficult piece of work in a highly 
creditable manner.
As the love-lorn son, William Beyer 
gave a good performance. His voice 
has a very pleasing quality, but his 
carriage needs improvement.
The stage setting was appropriate 
and formed a very pleasing back­
ground for the costumes. ,
Institute of Technology to organize 
the Bureau cf Salesmanship Research.
Dr. Scott had already achieved 
eminence through his practical re­
search in the Psychology of Advertis­
ing. Now he turned from the study 
of advertising to the study'of sales-} 
men. Dr. Scott and his associates in 
the Bureau of Salesmanship Research 
initiated a systematic study of the 
qualifications necessary for successful 
salesmen. They investigated the moth- 
ods used by the various concerns to 
select, develop, supervise and reward 
their salesmen, and then carried on in­
vestigations as to improved methods 
of selection and development.
It was during this year, 191(5-1917, 
that Dr. Scott and his associates in 
the Bureau of Salesmanship Research, 
first developed the rating scale which 
later on was adopted for use in the 
United States Armp, and has comp 
to be closely associated with Dr. 
Scott’s name wherever used in busi­
ness and industry.
It was from his^position as Direc­
tor of the Bureau of Salesmanship 
Research that Dr. Scott was called by 
the Secretary of War to organize the 
Committee on Classification of Per­
sonnel in the Army and to direct its 
wcrk of classifying three millions of 
soldiers and placing them in the kinds 
of military service where their pre­
vious experience and education best 
qualified them to serve.
After the war, the bureau of sales­
manship Research was changed, under 
Dr. Scott’s guidance, to the Bureau 
of Personnel Research, and it's func­
tions were extended to include the 
study, not merely of salesmen, but 
also of executives and' clerical work­
ers.
Colonel Scott then returned to 
Northwestern University to take up 
his residence and continue his teach­
ing, maintaing only a part-time con­
nection with the Carnegie Institute cf 
Technology until the present year.
Colonel Scott’s services to the cause 
of personnel administration in busi­
ness and manufacturing, his distin­
guished leadership in organizing and 
direcing the army personnel system 
and his contributions to the educa­
tion and the tiaining of employment 
managers and personnel research 
workers, mark him as the foremost 
figure in the application of scientific 
principles and methods to the prob­
lems of industrial personnel. In his 
elevation to the university presidency 
he will have opportunity to carry in­
to the field of educational administra­
tion these same principles in connec­
tion with the problems oift dealing 
with the personnel of the faculty and 
the student body.
President Scott was born at Cooks- 
ville, 111., May 1, 1869. lie attended 
the public schools and was graduated 
froip the Illinois State Normal Uni­
versity, Normal, HI., 1891. Previously 
he had taught a country school for
chology of that school, which position 
he has held ever since.
In 1912 he was made professor ol! 
applied psychology at . Northwestern 
University of Commerce, and has held 
that position continuously ever since.
For four summer quarters Prof. 
Scott was lecture in psychology at 
Columbia University, and for half a 
year he was lecturer at the Univer­
sity of Chicago. During 1916-17 he 
was on a leave of absence to serve 
as Director of the Bureau of Per­
sonnel Research, Carnegie Institute of 
'I'echnoIogp, Pi ttsbu rgh.
In 1919 Prof. Scott was awarded 
tho Distinguished Service Medal “for 
especially meritorious and conspicuous 
service in originating, organizing and 
putting into Operation the system of 
classification of enlisted personnel 
now used in the United States Army.”
Each year thousands of . new and 
old students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology are welcomed at 
the Carnegie Library. The resources 
of the library are placed at the dis­
posal of the student body and fac­
ulty, tables arc reserved in the Ref­
erence Department for special classes 
and books are supplied to the Car­
negie Tech Library.
There are, however, many depart­
ments, such as the Order, Catalogu­
ing, Printing and Binding Depart 
ments of the library, which, by the 
very nature of their work, are not 
open to the public.
On Friday evening, November 5, 
the library will celebrate its twenty- 
fifth birthday, and on that evening 
the faculty and student body of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
cordially invited to visit the library 
and see the work of all departments, 
especially those which are not usually 
open to the public.
TECH MECHANICS MEET
The first meeting of the Tech Me 
chanics was held last Wednesday, and 
the following officer:: were elected:
President.................................I..E, Chick
Vice President.............W. L. A. Dixon
Secretary-Treasurer.. L. A. Matteson 
All men, upper classmen and Fresh 
men, taking the Machine Production 
Course in Industries Division, are re­
quested to attend the Tech Mechanics1 
meeting as they are announced. This 
organization is planning for one of 
its greatest years at Carnegie Tech. 
If you are taking the Machine Produc­
tion Course come out and help this 
club attain its stellar aim.
Univ. of Cincinnati Falls Before 
Onslaughter of Skibos 25-17
Fumbles give Cincy her score—Aerial attack in last quarter looked 
dangerous to Plaid men—liable recovers fumble in fourth quart­
er—Marshall shows up in double-pass.
The second meeting of the “Car­
negie Forum,” held last Thursday in 
the Science Building, proved that the 
campaign of tliq week before had been 
most successful and that cold, sci­
entific Tech was hot barren of lovers 
of the forensic arts. About twenty- 
five students were present, and all ex­
pressed their willingness to do their 
share in rendering entertaining pro­
grams.
Mr. Peterson, who, with Mr. Ken­
nedy, has kindly offered to act as 
Coach to the members, informed the 
students that a permanent, organiza­
tion could not be constructed, because 
it must first be approved by the school 
authorities. No opposition to the or­
ganization is, however, expected, since Dean Tarbell and several members of 
the faculty have consented to act as 
it godfathers. President Reilly, ac­
cordingly, appointed* a constitutional 
committee to report on a constitution 
at the next meeting, and also a pro­
gram committee to take charge of 
neai;-future activities. The president 
urged that trials be begun as soon as 
possible in order hat a debating team 
may be perfected in time lor the in­
tercollegiate debating season.
Representatives of the fair sex were 
very much missed, for the organiza­
tion is intended to belong to all tho 
schools. Unable to explain this' ab­
sence except on the theory that nat­
ural bashfulness kept the fair ones 
out of the Science Building, tho mas­
culine element decided to hold its next 
meeting Wednesday, October 27, in 
Room 102 of the more hospitable De­
sign Building.
Allen Weirman Again Stars 
With Spectacular Run of 75 yds.
By “HANK” SIMPSON 
Far be it from me to say or make any claims further than those that 1 
am going to make, but; 1 tell you—no, 1 ask you: “Wa’n't that there ‘er’ 
game that your ‘Dear Old Tech’ football team put up against that there 
University of Cincinnati bunch, when they handed ’em the short end of a 
27-15 score?” “Yessir, I’ll murmur, chirp, yell, cry, or yell-it-out long, loud, 
anil confidently that it was ‘absitively and posolutely’ the very best, most 
nerve-rending, and heart-exciting game of football ever the humble scribe 
has seen, and what’s more, ’tis the most exciting game I.ever hope or expect 
to see. Not for one single moment was I free to relax, never once until the 
final whistle blew, to my intense relief, was 1 able to heave a big sigh of relief.
Honest, 1 had a “sweet-one” at 
that game, and believe me, "Folks,” I 
almost committed the terrible blunder 
cf hugging her tight right before the 
immense "gang” of "Techites” and 
“Cincinnati-ites” (I “reckon ilat’s 
wlvut y’ealls ’em, ain’t it”—someone 
kindly page Mr. “Erne” Rehm) when 
Wierman made those most spectacu­
lar runs, and when liable fell on that 
ball after that fumble in the fourth 
quarter, when “Roger” Marshall im­
itated his famous brother “Phil," and 
when “Gy” Comfort returned to the 
game after being knocked out the 
third time. And sp'caking of heart 
failure, I almost had the old “Blood- 
pump” of mine go back on me time 
and time again when “Cinci” opened 
up that forward puss attack in the 
last quarter, ami furthermore, it is 
still a mystery to me just how my 
aforementioned “blood-pump” man­
aged to function afltor that striding 
guard, llouke, or “Cinci” recovered 
(no of those fumbled triple passes 
and ran 30 yards to a touchdown, and 
when Prather ran back up behind 
Toch’s goal line and received a for­
ward pass. And to return to the 
final whistle -it. absolutely was the 
most welcome sound my ears have 
over hoard. I believe it was more 
welcome to mo than was unwelcome fliat sound when my one of my- 
Nwoot-onos told me she didn’t love me. 
Ah, “them wuz said woids,” but more 
pleasant than they were sad, was that 
final whistle which said “Tech wins” 
and “Cinci loses.”
But to return to tho “wliys and 
wherefors” of tho oxcitomont. Such 
happens to be piled around Allen 
Wiernwm, Brumbaugh, Anderson and 
Rogir Marshall in the backilold, while 
“Skitch” Henderson, “Gy” Comfort, 
“Al” Irwin, Sprinkle, McClean, liable 
and—fact is» the whole team.
But the real star of the game, Lit­
tle Allen Wierman, possessing 145 
pounds cf the most wiry, and toughest 
muscles over soon on Tech Held since 
the days of “Phil” Marshall, and 
Marly contributed more than his share 
of excitement. His broken field run­
ning was surely a sight to behold. 
Ilis speed was amazing. His general­
ship was good—blame for bungling up 
of the triple passes surely can’t bo 
laid on his shoulders. His 75-yard 
run for a touchdown was positively 
tho prettiest play ever seen on Tech 
Field—surely it is the best mnce my 
Tech history began. Ann amazing as 
it may sound, but the total of his runs 
duriilg the whole game reached a total 
of close to 250 yards—“miff sod,” that 
fact alone is enough to endear him to 
the hearts of all loyal Tech men. In 
concluding my little “say-so” about 
this “Sharon High Jack Rabbit,” I’ll 
admit I hat my humble words fail 
miserably to do this man the full jus­
tice due him. So why linger longer?
We will turn to “Cy”. Comfort. 
This man. is everywhere, always fight­ing, in the midst of every play, al­
ways opening up wide holes in Cincin- 
natti’s line through which Marshall 
and Anderso/i and Brumbaugh hurl 
themselves through. And for pluck, 
(Continued on page 2.)
IT”AT-
Plans are under way at the present 
time lo produce the biggest “pep” 
gathering in the historp of “Old Car­
negie.” A play will be produced at 
the Schenley Theater on the evening 
of November 6th, after the Allegheny 
football game. The performance will 
be interspersed with a real cheering 
duel between the two schools when 
the new Tech spirit will come to the 
front. The two football teams will be 
the guests of the evening to watch 
the fracas. This is just a warning for 
every Carnegie man and woman to 
“date up” for the big night of Novem­
ber 6th, after the game.
li. SOPHS ORGANIZE
FOOTBALL TEAM
A meeting of the Sophomore Class 
of Industries was held at noon Thurs­
day, October 21, 1920. The chances 
of holding a Sophomore Class dance 
at the Union were discussed. It will 
probably be held some time in the 
near future.
The main topic of discussion was 
inter-class football. Ed. W. Gross 
was appointed manager of the Soph 
team. It was anhounced that tryouts 
would be held at the athletic field at 
4:30 on the same day.
Up to this date about 35 candidates 
have reported for the team, all of 
them having previous experience.
It is expected that the “Soph team” 
will bo a “corner” and will challenge 
several of the teams around school.
SCIENCE SOPHS
At n, meeting of the Science Sophs 
last Thursday “Red” Cummins wan 
elected to the Student Senate for one 
year and Thompson to serve for two 
years. The Sophs of the different de­
partments were notified to get to­
gether and elect a representative for 
the executive meetings. A plebe 
smoker was discussed and will prob­
ably be formulated in the near future.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB SMOKER
The Cosmopolitan Club held a gen­
eral “get-together” smoker last' Fri­
day night. President Previs made the 
opening address and introduced D . S. 
Harding (not W. G. Harding), as mas­
ter of ceremonies. Dr. Natlianson, of 
the Physical Department, delivered an 
informal address on “Organization.” 
Director Mott and Dean Tarbel re­
counted several amusing incidents of 
foreign students at Tech, Eats were 
then served, and consisted of “sink­
ers” and cider, The latter possessed 
the proverbial “kick” with a venge­
ance. The next event was a wrestling 
match between “Gil, the Rattlesnake 
Eater,” and “Bill, the Plebe Killer.” 
Following this was a Bull Fight, This 
event was NOT an argument! Dimen- 
cesco concluded the night's entertain­
ment with several rolicking French 
songs which he rendered in his usual 
inimitable manner.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1920.
(Uh? ©artan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postofflce <Tf Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EdiU^r-in-Chief ..................................................................................Lawrence Paquin
Phone Hfczel 0422
BiTHtness Manager..................................................................................Don A. Siller«
Schenley 9211
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
WiMiam D. Hall
Assistant Managing Editor ,
J. T. Amwi
News Editor 
J. K. W. Macalpino
Athletic Editor 
Fred L. Raowl©*
Assistant..............................S. P. Smith
Sohoo-1 Editors
M. M. D.................................Helen Lewis
Arts...................................C. Schumann
Industries...............Donald S. Harding
Science ....................................I. Sissman
Art Editor 
M. G. Winslow 
Circulation Manager 
William 11. Obenour 
BUSINESS STAFF 
Robert Mills Walter Heiler
Ackerman D. Sonneman
The Edrtör-i»-Chief is responsable for the policy of this paper; the Man 
agiag Editor for the make up.
All business eommunications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
Th« Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
tko signature to be withheld if desired.
AJ1 news iteuos must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:80 P. M. Fridays.
The Tarfcan Ofiico, Room 1132 Arts, will be open as follows:
Wednesday, 3:30-4:80. Thursday 8:30-4:30.
THE VALUE OF SENTIMENT
Tradation and sentiment are among the most valued attributes of col- 
lego life. Wo all aim to keep the former alive, and the latter is always felt 
in connection with our Alma Mater. Memories of glorious victories on the 
fUld, with recollections of friendships and associations formed at school, are 
the chief troasures of the college graduate.Life in the dormitories plays a large part in the ‘forming and perpetu­
ating of traditions, and the remembrances of intimate affiliations formed there 
will live long after a college career is at an end.To further enhance fraternal spirit in the dormitories, it has been sug­
gested that names which would inspire loyalty and instill pride among the 
occupants might bo given to the tjeveral buildings. Numerals, which are now 
in FOFT lend themselves but poorly to any foeling of sentiment. Nothing 
could be more fitting than that the names of men who have conspicuously 
identified themselves with the school be given to these buildings. Not only 
would they serve as appropriate memorials to those men, but they would also 
tend to inspire emulation of their achievements.
As a striking example of the logic of such an innovation, we suggest 
the name of a man who was for many years close to the hearts of all Tech, 
and whose lifo serves as a shining example of industry, .perseverance and 
noteworthy achievement, “Uncle John" Brashear. There is not a student at 
Tech who would not be proud to live in a dormitory named in his honor, and 
who would not be benefited by such an associatiwn. There are without doubt 
other men who might very fittingly be so honored.
FAVORITISM
Plcbo Regulations are intended primarily to introduce the new student 
Into the. traditions of the Institution, and to give him the proper perspective 
as to hs own importance in college life, As such, they are equally important 
to all who enter the school without, having been previously subjected to a 
similar initiation.
It has been increasingly apparent,of late yimrs that some favored indi- 
tlduals have been escaping these regulations for no other reason than that 
they have some friend in one of the upper classes who makes it his business 
to see that the Plobo gets by. This is manifestly unfair both to the other 
initiates and to tho porson who is avoiding his accountability. Not only docs 
this' defeat tho purpose of the regulations, but it fosters a spirit of class 
privilege, the most dangerous enemy of a democratic institution.
The most unfortunate feature of this system is the fact (hat those who 
receive the benefits, as they think, of I his favoritism, are students who live 
in tho city or havo friends at Tech. Those who come here from a distance 
ami who need tho most encouragement, who should be shown n spirit of kin­
ship and good will, are the very ones who are disheartened by tho realiza­
tion that they are being discriminated against,
Strangely enough, the girls have been tho principal offenders. So con­
spicuous has been tills practice in certain departments of the Margaret Mor­
rison and Arts Divisions, that It has become the subject, of much unfavorable 
comment, and the perpetuation of this valuable tradition has been vitally 
threatened. II is 'to ,be hoped, that the olfenders will come to a realization
BILL SAYS
The recent class elections have fur­
nished convincing evidence as to the 
inadequacy of the present system of 
electing class officers. This inade­
quacy hai: long been rocognized, for 
at every meeting held for the purpose 
of electing officers comes a new sug­
gestion for making that particular 
election, more efficient in some respect. 
These random suggestions at times 
show tendencies in the right direction, 
but it is obtious that such a process 
is much too slow to be desirable. By 
{combining the best of these newer 
practices and suggestions with the 
tried and accepted fundamentals of 
all elections, a new and uniform plan 
might be evolved in a comparatively 
short time which would largely elimi­
nate prevailing difficulties. A primary 
election which eliminates all but two 
candidates and insures a majority 
choice, except in rare cases, is a prac­
tice worthy of consideration. A gen­
eral election day observed in all 
schools with a check on all voters 
by means of class lists and registra­
tion cards anti conducted by tellers 
appointed by tho councils in the va­
rious divisions is another good sug­
gestion.
All this is a problem for the Stu­
dent Council or for a committee of 
their choosing, and any results which 
could be obtained in this direction 
could hardly be other than for the 
permanent benefit of the whole insti­
tution.
lined and committee chairmen will re­
port any business which has been 
transacted. Anyone unable to attend 
report to one of the above named 
students.All Aboard For Lehigh ! !
of tho harm they are 
partiality.doing to all concerned and discontinue all semhlanct
STUIiENT (’A MON DAK
T<Oct. 28 Football Rally, 7:45 to 0:30 p. n
Oct. 29*~*Send-olT for Football Team, W:40
Oct. 2!)—A. A. E. Mooting.
Oct. 80 -Football Dance -Union.
Nov. 5 -Dorms Nos. I and 2 Dance Union.
Nov. G—Football, Tech vs. Allegheny Tuch Field. 
Nov. ti -Cross Country Track Meet, Tech vs. Lehigh, Nov. (i—Football Dance—Union.
Nov. 18-—Football Dance—Union.
Nov. 19—Sophomore-Plebe Dance—M. M. D.
Nov. 20—Football, Tech vs. W. & J.- -Tech Field. Nov. 20—Football Smoker—Union.
h Field.
Faut Liberty Station.
ASSEMBLY
The Margaret Morrison Assembly 
Wednesday took the form of a me­
morial to Miss Parry.
Miss Breed1 told of the trip up to 
Cherry Tree and of the burial on the 
hill top among the falling autumn 
leaves.Dean Scales was at Smith with 
Miss Parry and told us about their 
friendship and good tijnes in school. 
She spoke of the value of friendship— 
of the real, lasting kind.
PARTY POSTPONED
The Junior PI ebe “Cabaret” party, 
which was to have been held Friday, 
was postponed. But don’t anybody 
forget it. Tt’s going to be a goon 
one when it arrives!
Y. W.
Do about four-fifths of the Maggie 
Murphys know what they are missing 
when they don’t go to the Ree Hall 
at 1:10 on Thursdays?
Miss Adair, Field Secreary, spoke 
at Y. W. this week and we had a good 
mooting.
AT FORBES
Forbes Hall has had a new species 
of visitor. One night last week two 
innocent Plebes called andi asked for 
a certain Junior girl. All they wanted 
was her signature, “an example of 
her chlrography, las it were,” in a 
little book, said signature! to be used 
as proof that the (Iced had boon done. 
They got the signature and also, wo 
hope, their reward as faithful ser­
vants, on reporting to tho Command­
ing Sophomore next day.
(«LICK CLUB
The Ciloo Club, held its first tryout 
this week, at which 19 girls tried out. 
Others will be held for those who 
missed this one. All out! It’ll be 
big year!
CARNEGIEHOCKEY 
CLUB ISFORMED
0 F FI CI A LAN N OU NCEM EN TS 
KEEP THE CALENDAR POSTED
On the bulletin board in my office are two calendars of student events 
(1) those held in Carnegie Union and (2) those held In other places. To 
avoid conflicts, an dtlius prevent the lessening of interest and attendance at 
the conflicting events, it is advantageous for every student organization to 
list its proposed event .On the calendar as soon as definite arrangements have 
been made. This calendar is constantly consulted by student committees 
seeking open dates, and by “The Tartan” for publication purposes. Keeping tue calendar posted thus becomes important to all interests.
DEAN TARBELL.
STATEMENT FROM C. I. T. BAND 
To the Students:
On registration day all students 
were approached by some represen­
tative of the band, asking for a dona­
tion t.o help send the band .to the 
Tech-Lehigh football game at Beth­lehem, Pa.
As usual, in the customary way, a 
liberal response was given to the ux- 
tont of two hundred and five dollars. 
This sum, however, was not as great 
as was expected and consequently our 
original plan of taking a thirty-five 
piece band to Lehigh was abandoned 
in favor of a smaller band of twenty one piece*.
For a band of this size, seven hun­
dred dollars would just take care of 
railroad expenses, excluding meals, 
utc. To make up the amount needed 
the Students’ Activities Board was 
approached and asked to appropriate 
the sum needed; this was refused on 
the grounds that, that board had not 
enough funds to take care of this, and 
at the same time do full justice to
other student organizations.
With this in view the executive 
committee of the band wishes me to 
stato “That unless a sufficient num­
ber of students protest, the money 
collected on registration day for the 
purpose of sending the band to the 
Lehigh game, will be used to send a 
forty-piece band to Wheeling, W. Va., 
on the date of the Bethany game.
While tho purpose for this trip to 
Lehigh has been destroyed from a 
band standpoint, we fool that, more 
students will be benolitted by this 
step, as tin* cost of the Wheeling trip 
will allow more supporters of the 
team to accompany us, and at tho 
same time wo can give Wheeling a 
real taste of Tech spirit and pep, 
which would bo impossible on the 
Lehigh trip due to a limited number 
of rooters who would attend.
Thanking all students for their 
voluntary support,. I am
Very truly yours,
R. W. ARNOLD, 
Manager of Band.
A meeting was held last Thursday 
afternoon in Room 104, Industries, of 
all those interested i» a Tech ohekey 
team and a temporary organization 
formed for the purpose of encourag­
ing and aiding the athletic authorities 
in reviving the' sport in which Tech 
was first represented.
Graduate Manager Iiaared was 
present and outlined the situation, 
reading letters received from other 
colleges ou the subject As he em­
phasized, the greatest difficulty lies in 
obtaining a schedule as the plans of 
Americans colleges supporting hockey 
in the past are still indefinite for this 
winter. Letters have been sent out. 
however, to several Canadian colleges 
and it is expected that satisfactory 
results will be forthcoming from this 
source at least.
As evidenced by the attendance and 
enthusiasm at the meeting little trou­
ble will be had in obtaining candi- 
Mates. About twenty-five were pres­
ent,. each anxious and willing to aid 
in making a Tech hockey tonni 
realization.
In order to hasten and insure ; 
tion, William A. IIufl\ Jr., was 
selected as chairman of the organiza­
tion and he has appointed the follow ing committees:
Rink committee P. W. Jewel, 
chairman; J. B, Zimmerman.
S e h o d u 1 e committee Robert 
Schmertz.
Publicity committee—G. D. Martin 
There will be another important 
meeting of this club Thursday after 
r.oon at 4:30 p. m. in Room 104, In 
dustries Building. All interested are 
urged to attend. The policy of the 
organziation will be definitely out-
SKIBOS BEAT CINCINNATI
(Continued from page 1.) 
“stick-to-itiviness,” fight, and natural 
playing ability we sure have to hand 
it to “Cy.” Even, though knocked out 
twice during the course of the game, 
he stuck i nthe game thru' sheer pluck, 
fight and determination. Such are the 
kind of men who make “Tech history,” 
“Tech fame,” and “Tech fight” what 
it is today.
And Roger Marshall—he’s stepping 
close onto the footsteps of Phil Mar­
shall. Roger has three more years on 
the team, and believe me, you Tech 
Men, this man will sure lank on a 
par with Phil, which is said with full 
knowledge and respect to the marvel­
ous ability of the groat Phil.
When it comes to “steam roller 
football methods” Brumbaugh and 
Anderson, plus a lot of Roger Mar­
shall, Tech excells also. Whenever a 
yard or two is required, whenever it 
must be any distance whatever, just 
call on Brumbaugh, and you’ll get it. 
Brumbaugh’s specialty is bucking 
through the line, that is, the good old 
straight football, the kind that every 
team relies on in a pinch. In other 
words, Brumbaugh is there with the 
punch when it is needed.
The features of the game were, of 
course, Wierman/s 75-yard run to a 
touchdown. Other than that were the 
many other long runs of this same 
Wierman. Marshall, too, came in for 
his share of features when he reeled 
off about GO yards on double passes, 
liable also carved a niche in the 
hearts of all Tech men when he re­
covered a fumble in the last quarter, 
liable with three other men, all Cin­
cinnati men, plunged at the same time 
for the ball, immediately followed by 
the whole two teams plus the referee. 
After disentangling the entangled 
mass of feet, legs, bodies, arms, and 
hands of this bunch of fighting 
hi:i mns, liable was found on the bot­
tom, clutching to his body the foot­
ball. It was a wonderful recovery, 
and too much credit cannot be given 
liable.
But to return to the game, and see 
just how the scores were made.
Cincinnati drew first blood as a re­
sult of a blocked punt. After being 
penalized fifteen yards for holding, 
Marshall stepped back of the Tech 
line to punt, which was blocked, and 
rolled behind the goal line, where 
Brumbaugh fell on it, giving Cincin­
nati (2) two points.
Tech drew in the lead later when 
after successive gains, and the ball 
on Cincinnati's 20-yard line, Wier 
man made a beautiful run around 
right end for 15 yards when he was 
thrown by Ilucke, and then failed to 
gain, on the other side. After a mass 
play through the line Tech gained a 
few inches and Wierman skirted 
around left end for the first touch 
lown. Comfort failed' at goal.
In the second quarter, after Brum 
badgh fumbled, and Arbor recovered 
for Cincinnatti on Tech’s 13-yard 
line, Fratz made a good forward pass 
to Prather bade of the Tech goal line 
for “Cinrin’s” first touchdown, thus 
throwing Cinrinnatti in the lead 
Meyers failed to kick goal.
Later in the same quarter, with the 
ball on Tech’s 35-yard line, Wierman 
fumbled, and Ilullce recovered for Cin­
cinnatti and raced toward Tech’s goal 
for Cincinnatti’s last touchdown. Iber 
kicked goal.
Immediately following, Prather 
kicked ofT to Wierman on the 10-yard 
line, and he made 10 yards when Lin 
noman nabbed him. Anderson made 
one at center, and Brumbaugh gained 
two through tho line. Wierman broke 
through tho first line defense and 
shook oil1 the secondary line, galloping 
75 yards for a touchdown. Comfort 
kicked goal. In this Wierman shook 
Hucke so hard that the latter suffered 
a fractured shoulder and had to 
retire.
Tech started tho fourth, quarter on 
“Cinei’s” 15-yard line. Marshall made 
12 yards on a double pass. Marshall 
added one yard more through the 
line. Wierman advanced the ball 
within inches from a touchdown, and 
Brumbaugh bucked the line for the 
third Tech touchdown. Comfort kicked 
goal.
Later in the same quarter, Tech
had the ball on Cincinnatti’s 25-yard
line. Line bucks through tackle 
brought the ball to the 14-vard line, 
when on a double pass, Roger Mar­
shall carried the ball over for the last 
touchdown of the game. Comfort 
kicked goal. The lineup:
Tech—27 Cincinnatti—15
Wittmer .....L.E.........................Nelson
Comfort .L.T... Fries (Capt.)
Henderson .L.G....................Constable
Join The “Old Gang'’ at South Bethlehem, Pa., g 
October 30, 1920 at 2:30 P. M.
CARNEGIE vs. LEHIGH
After the game, the Philadelphia Clan has arranged a Carnegie Tech dinner at the Arcadia Restaurant, Broad and Chestnut Street, Philadelphia. This dinner is scheduled for 8:00 P. M. Trains leave Bethlehem for Philadelphia at 4:35, 5:30 and 0:02.
President Hamerschlag, Haaren, Tiibrook, Coach Steffen, and Captain Godden will be on hand.
Trains from Philadelphia 
Lv. Phila. Ar. Bethlehem
Fare $2.25 
Via Reading Railroad7:10 A. M. 9:15 A. M. 12:30 P. M.
9:30 A. M. 11:00 A. M. 2:18 P. M.
Trains from New York 
Fare $3.47 
Via Lehigh Valley R. R. 
Lv. New York 
8:50 A. M.
12:05 P. M.
Ar. Bethlehem 
11:19 A. M. 
2:37 P. M.
Via Lehigh Valley R. R.
Fare $2.25 
Lv. Phila. Ar. Bethlehem
9:15 A. M. 11:19 P. M.12:30 P. M. 2:37 P. M.
Inteiurban Cars Hourly, Philadelphia-Bethlehem, requiring two hours and twenty minutes for the trip.
THIS IS YOUR SCHEDULE FOR OCTOBER 30, 1920
2:30 P. M. South Bethlehem ...........Carnegie vs. Lehigh8:00 P. M. “Arcadia” Phila..............Big feed and reunion
For further details write Mr. L. E. Exline, 505 Real Estate Trust Building, Philadelphia, Pa.
^;>uwiiiHiiuiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiniiiini!iHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boots, Slippers, Hosiery for Men,
Wome nand Children
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGO Michigan Blvd.Bldg. Corner Washington St.
ST. LOUISArcade Building
NEW HAVEr-1 Hotel Taft 
BOSTON Little Building 
CLEVELAND Athletic Club Bldg.
BALRYech ir: Yil dWoodward Bldg. opp. Shoreham Hotel SAN FRANCISCO Whitnèy Building 133 Geary Street
LINTON TRUNK AND BAG CO.
Manufacturers 
BRIEF CASES BOSTON BAGS
BOSTON BAGS TRUNKS
SUIT CASES LAUNDRY BAGS
10 per cent discount to students.
943 LIBERTY AVENUE .:. .:. .:. .:. PITTSBURGH, PA.
ATTENTION STUDENTS I*Laboratory Aprons *
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS * 
Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3812 I-ORBES STREET, COR. BOQUET
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Uftder_Super vision of Varsity Clan
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CAN’T BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
Irwin ...................C................... Prather
Rosenbloom 
Sprinkle .. 
McClean . . 
Marshall •. Wierman .. 
Anderson . 
Brumbaugh
• R.G................ Huckie
R.T...................... Iber
.R.E................ Meyers
. Q..................... Crolly
. L.II............... Palmer
.R.H........... Linneman
..F..................... Fratz
Substitutions -— Harrod for Con­
stable; Nelson for Meyers; Eifort for 
11 ulke; liable for Wittmer, Kratt for 
Prather; Filers for Iber; Brünhall for 
Fratz: Griffon for Henderson; Fry for 
Kratt; Gliger for Klein; Zelt for Comfort.
Touchdowns—Frather, llulke, Weir- 
man (2), Marshall, Brumbaugh.
Gcals from, touchdowns — Comfort 
(3), Iber. »
Safety—Brumbaugh.
Referee — Daugherty, Wash-Jeff. 
Umpire—Denny, Yale. Linesman—Young, Pitt.
*
BATTERY
Exì de”
SERVICE
Baum and Mellwood Ï *All Kinds of Batteries % 
Repaired and Recharged *
IRON DIIÏ ELECTRIC CD.
SKIBO INN
Remodeled anti Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at berft prices
CIGARS CANDY
à*************************

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1920.THE TARTAN.
Plaid Eleven to Invade
Lehigh Territory Od. 30
The Brown and White team plays a rough game, held W. Va. to a 
7-7 tie, beat Rutgers and Rochester. They think Tech game is 
easy pickin’s.
Lehigh Uses Forward Pass Effectively
The Plaicl eleven again invades foreign territory next Saturday when 
they play the strong Lehigh team at South Bethlehem. With three decisive 
victories to their credit since the Yale defeat, the team will start on this 
trip not oVfer confident of victory, but with a knowledge of their own strength 
and determination to display that famous Tech spirit which has won so many 
games for them in the past.
Lehigh knows what they will be up 
against when they line up opposite 
the Tartan lads, having been held to 
a score of 16 to 0 last year by the 
light Carnegie eleven. The Brown 
and White and the Tartan Plaid have 
met on the gridiron five times to date, 
and the South Bethlehem team has 
emerged the victor in every contest, 
scoring 105 points to Carnegie’s 31. 
The first game was staged in 1907, 
which Tech dropped by a score of 22 
to 0. Tech had a good deal of hard 
luck in the 1914 contest, which Lehigh 
barely won in the last few minutes of 
play by a score of 24-20. The games 
and scores follow:1907—Lehigh 22, Tech 0.
1909—Lehigh 18, Tech 11.
1910—Lehigh 25, Tech 0.
1914—Lehigh 24, Tech 20.
1919—Lehigh 16, Tech 0.
Last year Lehigh had a remarkable 
team, and'while the team this year is 
r.,ot p'oor ,by any means, it is not quite 
up to what Coach Keady is in the 
habit of turning out. They met their 
first defeat of the present season last 
Saturday at the hands of W. & J., 
after winning three and tieing one 
game. Lehigh began the season by 
defeating Lebanon Valley 28 to 0, and 
then tied W. Va. 7-7. The strong 
Rutgers eleven next fell before 
Keady’s warriors 9-0, and they then 
swamped Rochester 41-0.
The Brown and White team is not 
as heavy as usual, but makes up for 
it in speed. In Larkin and Gulick 
they have a pair of ends that are 
regular speed merchants, men who 
seldom fail to drop the catcher of a 
punt in his tracks, and are adept at 
spilling interference on end runs, 
usually dropping the man with the 
ball as well. McCarthy and Maginnes 
at the guards stand out almost as well 
as the ends, breaking thru the line 
consistently and downing the man 
with the ball for a loss. Captain Her­
rington at left half is the outstanding 
figure in the backfield, and has been 
Lehigh’s most consistent ground 
gainer. He also does the putting, 
sending the ball in long spirals down 
the field for. 50 and 60 yards. Lehigh 
has a combination for forward passes 
that has worked well this year, Her­
rington throwing the ball to Wilson. 
In the W. & J. game Lehigh did not 
start to use this method of offense 
until late in the game, but then com­
pleted two throws for a gain of 40 
yards.The Brown and White eleven has 
always been noted for playing a hard 
and rough game, but Tech has always 
come right back and mixed it with 
the South Bethlehem boys. They are 
not under rating the Tartan warriors 
and will be primed for a hard battle. 
With the Plaid’s assortment of trick 
plays they should be able to gain 
some ground around the Lehigh ends, 
and there is always the possibility 
of one of the backs getting away for 
a long run.
A large party of Tech rooters will 
accompany the team on its journey 
next Saturday, and a number of Tech 
aluminae from Eastern Pennsylvania 
are planning to attend the contest. 
They are planning to stage a demon­
stration in the steel town Friday 
night and have a big get together 
party. Coach Steffen will take about 
20 men on the trip, and the two 
teams will prchably line up as fol­
lows:
Tech 
IVittmer . .. 
Comfort ... 
Henderson .
Irwin .........
Rosenbloom 
Sprinkle . .. 
McClean . .. 
[Marshall . .. 
Wierman ... 
Anderson. . . 
Brumbaugh
Pay by Check
It is businesslike, con­
venient, safe. It pro­
vides a receipt that is 
proof conclusive for 
money paid out.
Open a checking ac­
count with us—it need 
not be large to be wel­
come 
Capital and Surplus,
$1 1,124,136,20
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
Finest Work
OPPOSITE LIBRARY
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Beil Meals at reasonable prices
3719 Forbes St. Oak!
Do You Dance?
D.inclng Lesson 
Class and Private
Jacque’s Dancing Academy |
Craig and Forbes
...L.E..
. ..L.T..
. . .L.G.. 
....C.... 
...R. G. .
. .. R.T..
.. .R.E. . 
— Q.B.. 
.. ..L.H.. 
...R.H.. . . .F.B. .
Lehigh 
. . .. Larkin
.......... Good
... McCarty 
. . Goldman 
.. McGinnes 
.... Cussick 
.... Gulick
...........Rote
Herrington 
... Savaria 
......... Fratz
On the Plaid Screen
By Fred L. Knowles.
FOOTBALL RALLY
Whoever started this football rally is back of Tech, he is a real live man, 
and wants to see Tech grow. It is a thing that ought to he pulled oc before 
any Carnegie Tech team leaves for foreign territory. When the team plays 
at home, the student body gets a chance to show their pep and spirit at the 
game. This spirit and cheering helps a lot, it is a part of every Tech victory, 
because Tech followers are loyal. Now when the team plays away from 
home, and the students have not a chance to play their part in a Tech vic­
tory, to assure the team at every moment of play that they are behind them, 
wouldn’t a football rally “kinder” give them an indication of how we would 
back them up if we were at the game. A football rally would “kinder” 'toll 
the team how we feel about this Lehigh game, that we want them to work 
a little harder—do a little cheering for themselves. In another light, Car­
negie Tech is going out to battle, to fight till one or the other fall; they have 
a charge which they will carry out to the extent of their ability, the students 
place this charge upon them, at the rally, and tj\e team leaves with a more 
definite idea of how the students are back cf them and what they expect of 
them. Everybody ought to be out and add their bit, in the expression of this 
thought. We say—fight hard boys, fight your damn’est, but play a clean 
game, play a game that will make Tech’s sportsmanship a feature and make Lehigh bite tlie dirt.
ALLAN WEIRMAN
The little boy in Tech’s backfield who has been running away with the 
ball so often, has risen very suddenly to a place in Tech history. If he was 
a big fellow, like Regers or Hewitt, we wouldn’t wonder, but when a little 
fellow of but 150 pounds runs away with the ball at will ho demands our 
admiration, and the admiration of every lover of the gridiron sport. Allen 
Weirman hails from Sharon High and has played with Westminster College. Last year his broken field running marked him as a possibility, and this year 
he has shown himself competent to stay with the best. Wally Steffens pulled 
off some great runs in his time, and when Steffens adds his knowledge to 
Weirman’s natural ability, then will the little fellow in Tech’s backfield cover himself with fame.
SPONSORS
We fellows of Carnegie Tech weren’t able to see our brothers of Georgia 
Tech stack cards with Pitt Saturday, but after all is said about the game, one 
thing still remains; that is, the three fair sponsors who were the ladies for the Knights of the Yellow Jacket, wore supreme in their field.
Their presence added a touch of the old chivalaric contests to the game, 
a touch which reverberated with good sportsmanship, gentlemanliness and Southern ideals.
They somehow filled the gap between the players and the spectators, 
sort of brought the spectators and players a lit tier closer together and 
spectators in turn experienced an admiration that is met by few invading football teams.
What we want to say is why shouldn’t Carnegie Tech adopt a similar custom and establish a worthy college tradition?
FRESHMEN LOOSE KISKI GAME
Accidents Handicap Coach Idding
Laboring under a severe handicap, 
Coach ldding’s team was defeated 
last Saturday by Kiski, 48-0. Due Co 
injuries sustained in the Bellefonte 
game, Capt. Smith, fullback, was un­
able to play. McPhee, the promising 
hjalfback, was also out due to a 
sprained ankle. This required a com­
plete change in. the lineup and bring­
ing into play of several men who had 
had practically no experience in,their 
respective positions.
The Freshmen, _ however, fought 
every minute from start to finish in a 
way characteristic of Tech spirit. It 
might be said in their support, how­
ever, that they did not lose by such a 
margin as the score might indicate, 
as two touchdowns in the first half 
were the result of intercepting our 
’orwai'd passes on our twenty-yard 
ine. McCollum starred in the game 
with Larew, Donley and Griggs play­
ing in good style. Lineup:
Q. B.—Donley C.—Griggs 
R. II. B.—Fritz L. II. B.—Biss el I 
R. G.—Williams L. T.— Bcrgland
KEIL, NEWCOMER, DEFEAIS 
BRODSKY IN TENNIS FINALS
Neville, give Keil a hard battle in 
the semi-final—Brodsky also 
fight hard to get in finals.
L. G.—Berryman 
L. E.—Donley
R. T.—Rex 
R. E.—Larew 
F. B.—McCollum.
Substitutions—Bock for Williams; 
McHenry for Berryman; Schillinger 
for McHenry; Jones for Donley; 
Berryman for Griggs; Schwab for 
H. D. MILLER. •
»To the fumes of ethelyn acetate, 
benzyl bromide and hydrogen sufide, 
the Senior Chemical football aggre­
gation went down to ignominous de­
feat Thursday afternoon at the hands 
of the stalwart athletes of the Senior 
Commercials. The score was 54 to 0. 
Time and again the Commercials 
proved that they hadve a better line, 
the Chemists being able to make only 
half a dozen first downs. The spec­
tators were brought to their feet many 
times by the brilliant runs of the 
Commercial backfield. After the ini­
tial quarter, in which the Commer­
cials earned their first touchdown by 
hard line plunging, there was 
doubt as to the outcome of the game. 
In a quick succession of masterly 
plays the Commercials rolled up 
more touchdowns, the results being 
that much money changed hands. Ar­
nold, Chernoff and Swift played well 
for the losers, but the stellar per­
formance of every Commercial makes 
it impossible to choose any outstand­
ing players. Lineup:
Chemicals Commercials
Zimmerman ....R.E................ Kostler
Bower .'................R.T............... Shilliday
Knapp .................R.G.................... Bress
Smith.....................C............... McMahon
Pierce ..................L.G.................... Sillers
Cattlow...............L.T........ McCullough
Carsill .................L.E................ Obenour
Chernoff..............F.B................ Wellmon
Arnold ................Q.B........................ Leet
Swift....................H.B................ Schmidt
Russell ...............H.B.................... Dreux
Touchdowns—Wellmor 3, Schmidt 
3, Dreux 1, Leet 1. Goals from touch­
down—Leet 6.
Superior Net Playing
Friday afternoon, before a small 
group of tennis enthusiasts, J. J. Keil 
decisively defeated Brosky for the 
tennis championship of Carnegie Tech. 
Keil won his match by superior net 
playing, coupled-up with a good drive, 
used now and then, and a very de­
pendable chop stroke. Brosky lost to 
a better player—there’s no doubt of 
that. But ¡71 justice to Brosky, it is 
believed by the writer that if Brosky 
had stuck to his style of game he 
would have made a far better show­
ing. Brosky’s game consists of a 
hard driving game. In this match he 
discarded his drive and relied on a 
chop stroke with disastrous effect, for 
Keil proved that he is a far better 
master of that game than is Brosky. 
Brosky further made the mistake of 
playing too much in the hands of 
Keil, which mght be blamed on the 
jam-up playng of Keil himself. A 
glance at the summary will show the 
story of the victory for Keil and de­
feat; of Brosky far better than words 
show. On the plays that count to­
ward a victory, such as passes, aces 
on service, kills, Keil far outnumbered 
Brosky, while in those that go toward 
i defeat, such as outs, nets, errors, 
louble-faults, foot-faults, Brosky ran 
up a larger total of the two. The 
final score, 6-2, 6-3, 6-4, gives some 
¦ndication of the superior playing of 
Keil. The first set was very loosely 
played from the poser’s side of the 
net. As a general rule both con­
testants played cautiously, each ma­
neuvering for the net. with Keil 
ussually more successful, always man­
aging to kill effectively or to make a 
play forcing Brosky into an error. 
The seccnd set was a repitition of the 
first, in that the better net playing 
won out. But in the third set Brosky 
returned to his old game and, as a re­
sult, forced Keil to play a much hard­
er game, which, in turn, was respon­
sible for a most interesting and 
prettily played set. Many rallies were 
pulled off. One especially, where both 
players were about four feet on each 
side of the. net, volleying back and 
forth with good speed, when Keil 
slipped and fell and from a position 
lying almost prone on his back played 
two volleys, when Brosky drove one 
through on a fine placement shot. In 
the semi-finals Brosky won out over 
Rabenstein, a Science Sophomore, in 
three sets, 6-4, 10-8, 7-5. As the 
scores show, the match was very 
closely contested, due to the general 
all-round good playing of Rabenstein. 
Rabenstein presents a good serve and 
an uncanny method of “getting- 
things'* back, plus a good drive shoved 
off at the psychological moment.
The other semi-final match was be­
tween Keil and Neville, a; Science 
Sophomore, recently transferred from 
Case School of Applied Science, 
Cleveland. Their scores, 4-6, 6-3, 7-5, 
show that Keil received quite a scare 
before a victory came his way. Both 
of these men are newcomers at Tech
and should prove mighty good men 
for tc-nnis this spring. Neville pre­
sents a good forehand, good back­
hand, good serve, but is inclined to be 
erratic, which latter is why Keil, with 
his steady game, won out.
Among the other men playing in 
the tournament who should have spe­
cial mention are Hauser, F. I. Smith, 
Kyle, Byler and Harwood. Each of 
these men should help' materially in keeping Tech’s tennis up to the high 
standard .as set up by last year’s 
championship team.'
From theGraduate Manager
By Frank HaarenI
Class Football 
Some misunderstanding has arisen
among the student body with refer­
ence to fitting out class football teams. 
Considerable ¡interest and enthusiasm 
has been worked up in these gam.es, 
with the result that the football man­
agement has been besieged with re­
quests to outfit the teams in question. 
'I'llis has been impossible, because no 
allowance could be made in the ath­
letic budget for such purpose, and ac­
cordingly the student managers have 
been able to co-operate only by lot­
ting the teams have such extra equip­
ment as may be left over. The en­
thusiasm, however, has caused some 
of the contestants to become thought­
lessly destructive, as is indicated by 
the fact that on several occasions 
lockers have been broken open and the 
equipment of regular football squad 
men has been used without their 
knowledge’ and permission. The ac­
tion is not only unpardonable, un­
sportsmanlike, but such that all good 
Tech men should immediately take ac­
tion upon and forestall in the future. 
The graduate manager takes this oc- 
ca.iion of stating that every possible 
co-opeiation will be given in outfitting 
class teams, which facilities, as be­
fore mentioned, are very limited, but 
that if the incident of breaking into 
lockers is again repeated that the field 
house will be closed for every purpose 
ether than inter-collegiate competi­
tion, that for which the fi::ld house is 
supposed to be set aside. The gradu­
ate manager would like to make the 
practical suggestion that there are 
some other ways in which class su­
premacy might be decided, having in 
mind the temporaiy constructed shed 
against the Central Building which, 
having accomplished its purpose, has 
been purchased by the Athletic Asso­
ciation, which wishes to tear it down 
and preserve the lumber therein for 
use in making changes in the field 
house. Would it not be interesting 
to have, let us say, the Junior Com 
mercials and the Soph Electricals, un­
der, Frank Eyman as referee, and Bert 
Munhall as umpire, start on either 
side of the building, and under their 
direction compete in wrecking the 
building, piling the lumber and trans 
ferring it to the field. This tests 
will eliminate the bruises, cuts and 
possibilities of broken bones, and when 
thinks of the footpounds of energy 
going to waste in an inter-class game, 
in which the competitors have done 
¡no training or preparation, the plan 
I reems worth a trial.
PIEBES WIN INTERCLASS 
MEET—JUNIORS SECOND
Tech’s annual Fall Inter-Class 
Track Meet was won Monday after­
noon by the Freshmen, who made 41 
points to the Juniors’ 30. The Sopho­
mores came in third with 29 and the 
Seniors trailed behind with 16. A 
nasty drizzle came down all afternoon 
and spoiled the meet for all specta­
tors as well as hampering the ath­
letes in their efforts. A goodly num­
ber of entries turned out despite ih 
weather and every event was holly 
contested wit lithe exception of ;h 
two-mile run, Miller lapping three o 
the other runners and finishi ig h-tl 
a lap ahead of second place.
Tallmon and Lockwood were the 
individual stars of the meet, each boy 
garnering 13 points for the Freshmen 
score. Tallmon took two firsts a.id 
a second, and Lockwood four second 
and a third. Miller and Baggaley 
each won two firsts for ten points 
apiece, Miller takign the two-mile a ul 
half and Baggaley winning both 
hurdles. Daniels and Haub were liex' 
in line in individual points, Daniels 
annexing a first, second, and third to 
9 points and Haub taking a first aid 
second in the high jump and pole 
vault.
In the track events, ICelloy vnn lv 
100-yard dash by an eyebrow, v.’i'l' 
Tallmon second, in 10 2-5 second; 
Tallmon also took the 220-yard dash 
and Schmidt and Hiller had one o ' 
their old fights in the 440-yard da 
Schmidt emerging victorious in :l>:- 
encounter by two inches. Miller d:; 
tanced the field in the two-mile a id 
also won the half in handy fashion. 
This boy plows around the, course 
masterly style and should be bettnv 
than ever next sprin ’- fpr the c.nV 
legiate meets. Blesch won the milo 
and Baggaley took first in both hur 
dies.
On account of darkness the lvvv" 
and discus had to be droppo-' 'Vo-
the field events. Haub, an oM ......
sity track man who was "ot in schoV 
last year, won the high jump a‘. f.v 
feet six inches and also tied in i'v 
pole vault. Tallmon won the bro id 
jump with a leap of 19 feet 6 in el vs 
Kalabaisch won the shot-put. Daniels 
a freshman, threw the javelin for a 
distance of 111 feet 7 inches for first 
place in that event.
Track Coach Iddinn,s r^fefreed t’\e 
meet and seemed well pleased wi ll 
the showing made by several of i’le 
new men. If he can develop two or 
three good men in the field even1" 
Tech should havo another bann r 
year in track next spring. La it vr,i< 
the track team was strong in t he (n -I- 
events, but woefully weak in any op 
the field events with the exception of 
the polo vault. A first-class wei V 
man has still to be found to fill fie 
gap made when Moon left se.ho >1 
Perhaps one of the huskies now o” 
the football team will be devolon id 
until he can toss a shot and swi ig 
the hammer satisfactorily.
The showing made by Tallmon and 
Lockwood looks very good also, a >d 
with some coaching they both shorVl 
improve. Lockwood is a versatile Ind. having been entered in live of the 
events. Iddings will probably narrow 
him down to the two ho shows the 
most ability in and not let him wa' U 
his strength, in the others. He ms le 
an excellent record at. Sehenley T-T5 
during his four venrs ther> and n 
well known in Pittsburgh Schola /ii 
circles. The summary:
100-yard dash—first, Kellev 7lYc 
ond, Tallmon; third, Lockwood. Ti ic 
10 2-5.
220-yard dash--first;. 'rallmo r ” 
ond, Lockwood;’third, Schwab. Ti i« 
24 seconds.
440-yard dash—first. Schmidt’ "rn. 
ond, Hiller; third, Warner. T; i 
i 4-5.
880-yard run— first, Miller: seco 
Code; third, Daniels. Time 2:15.
One mile—first. Blesch: seco
Bailey; third, Wilson. Time 5:02. 
Two mile—first. Miller; seco
rENUS
PENCILS
rivals »dl for perfect pencil >vork. ^ 17 black degrees und 3 copying.
<3 , .PENS REPAIRED™ )1—&%$1,$24 arcade __y
Bost fountain pens, Eversharp Pen­
cils, and repairing. Hallowe’en Goods. 
Daneo Invitations and Programs. Pen­
nants and Pillow Tops. Tech Recog­
nition and Seal Pins. Rings. Frater­
nity Jewelry, etc.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP, 
JENKINS ARCADE
WE’VE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS
P. LUDEBIJEIIL & SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY 
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
MEN’S BROGUES
$12.00 to $16.00
We are showing a fine lot of 
new—Fall and Winter Broquos 
nt prices that are going to 
'mako them very popular, in
CORDOVAN - BOARDED 
CALF AND SCOTCH 
GRAIN 
OXFORDS AND BOOTS
STETSONS
OXFORDS AND BOOTS 
$13.00 to $16.00
1
McDonald; third, Zimmerman. Ti l 
10:39 3-5.
120-vard hurdles— firs1 Ba •; :alo / 
second, Roberts. Time 22 .n-5.
220-yard hurdles—first. Ba; -;a’' y 
second, Roberts; third, Jorely. Ti l 
32.
Pole Vault—Haub, Lockwoo 1 a id 
Daniels tied for first place.
High Jump—First, Haub’; seco <’ 
Lockwood; third, Ferguson, ilei h'
5 feet 6 inches.
Broad Jump—Tallmon, fiivjt; s' fi- 
ond, Henderson; third, Beck. Dis­
tance 19 feet 6 inches.
Javelin—First, Daniels; seco td
Lockwood; third, Landis. Distance 
111 feet 7 inches.---------O----------
HOCKEY
Maggie Murph played her first 
hockey this week. It’s a thrilling 
game at about 8:30 on a foggy “Blue 
Monday,” when the field is vejy 
sandy.
The Tech team that started last 
week against Cincinnati averaged 166 
pounds. The line from tackle to 
tackle averaged 177, and from end 
to end 173.
Godden’s fractured ankle is coming 
along nicely, and ha expects to get 
into the Allegheny game and then bi- 
all primed for the W. & J. contest.
Mrs. 168 was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
"How many cubs do you briny 
into the world at one time? she
asked the LIONESS
"Only ONE."replied the Lioness 
— " but it*s a LION I "
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
FOR A BOX OF 10
BUT THEY’RE MURADS
MURADS would be lower 
priced if we left out all or part of 
the 100//- Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and best varieties grown 
or H we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn't be MURADS 
—they’d only be Foxes I
“Judge for Youraelf— ! "
We call upecial attention to Murati 20a In Tin Boxea
J/»I/n/iAflt/ind “J Ihr Uykal Giade Tar huhon,I dwplm in iht \UirlJ
TfCH BARBER W
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGICL, Proprietor
NcarcHt and Bent Laundry 
Agency

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE POUR-THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1920.
KUPPEN II EI Mi ER 
CLOTIICRAFTClothes
Jayeiiian & Spicket
The Men’« Store ol Eu»l End
0121 Penn Ave., - East End
TRANSIT® AND LEVELS 
ALL 8UPPLIEB TOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Enfjlneora' Equipment, Inntru- monta of Proclulon, Bluo Pflnt and Brown Print Papero and 
Clothe.
B, K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 8IXTH STREET
ALUMNI NEWS
VARSITY CLAN 10 ELECT OFFICERS ÂI BANQUET
November 20, date set for 
Annual Banquet
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenue« 
Graded Sunday School, 10*:00 A. M. Preaching Services,' 11:00 A. M.and 8:60 P. M.Young People’» Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Honrted Messages, A cordial woldomo to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITIIRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister
SERVICES:Sunday School -0:45 A. M.Morning Worship- 11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for stu­
dents, 15c, al; (5 o’clock.Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. Popular Evening Sorvices nt 7:45. Sermon for Iload and Heart.A cordial welcome to all studonts;
DELLEPIELD PRESBYTERIAN • 
CHURCH
Bfllloflold and Fifth Avonuea 
RohoiRnv,i’t MnoOowwn, 
MInlotor
I’roaohluK Borvhm II and H.Htmdny nohool ut 10, |(MiriniInn lUndoavoi’ ut 7.
Wo want tho Tool» boys to »i ioml our imrvloiwi and loarn in it now Fd on tho uoiiKi'OKatlon or 
i "Friendly L'noplo". A hourly wol i (ionio awultn you.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Miinoo»: 0:30, K:00, 0:00, 10:00 and 11:00k. M. on Bunduya and Holy Day».
Vonporu on Sunday at 7:30 P. M.
Povr 68. Middle :474lT for Tooh Students.
The election of now officers to the 
Varsity Clan will lake place at the
RddFR5 LRursia Y5Rd yRdc
C¿UET, wiiicli will be held November 
20, 1020, immediately after the W. & 
J. game. Thu present officers are an 
follows'J President, Clarence Overend; 
secretary and treasurer, I'Jdward I1’, 
liirsch; first vice president, R. K. 
Merrill; second vice president, .James 
Lamoree,; third vice president, Don­
ald Scott.
The W. & J. game this year is tak­
ing the place ol the annual Pitt game 
and, much to the joy of the Techites, 
the game will be played on Tech Field. 
Great interest is being shown by the 
various Clans in Philadelphia, Harris­
burg, New York, Baltimore, Boston 
and Buffalo. The Erie and Youngs­
town Clans are expecting to attend 
the game in lull force. The frater­
nities are planning dances, hou.se 
parties arid dinners m honor of their 
alumni members who are returning to 
see the big game of the year. The W. 
<& J. game promises to draw the larg­
est crowd to Tech Field in the history 
of the school.
The Varsity Clan this year is ex­
tending an invitation to the general 
alumni to attend its annual banquet. 
Heretofore the banquet has been ex­
clusively for the members of the Var­
sity Claw, but owing to the great num­
ber of inquiries regardin gthe ban­
quet from non-members, it was de­
cided at the last meeting of the ofli- 
cers to invite the general alumni of 
the men’s schools to take part in its 
annual celebration at the clone of the 
football season. As a result of thi.s 
invitation the committee in charge of 
the banquet in at a loss to find hotel 
accommodations large enough to take 
care of the big crowd which is ex­
pected.
Last year the banquet at the Schen- 
ley Hotel was attended by over ¡100 
men and the ball was crowded. This 
year, with the general alumni taking 
part, the crowd will be even greater 
and the committee is planning on 
making,this teh biggest banquet ever 
held by any Carnegie Tech organiza­
tion. The committee is planning on 
having 800 covers. The committee at 
present is considering holding the 
banquet nt the Hotel Schenley, but in 
the event that it is impossible to get 
everybody into the one hall, it will 
be necessary to seek some other place, 
so that every one attending will be 
able to see all and hoar all.
Kxtonsive plans are being made for 
a program jammed full of pej: 
xcitement, Speeches will be taboo, 
'he committee plans on limiting tho 
speeches to three and these three 
will be on matters of vital interest to 
all Tech men.
e captain of the 1921 Football 
Team will be elected at tho banquet 
and members of the iilumni who nr< 
not familiar with this important < 
lion will have an opportunity 
satisfy their curiosity. As usual 
ev<*ry member of the football squa 
will attend the bnnquel as guests of 
the Varsity Clan. Conch "Fally 
Sl.otl’en will I»’ on hand, as will also 
his former teammate, "Hal” hidings, 
who in couching the Freshman Team 
I'idtllo llirsch, the new .secretary 
and treasurer, last week was busy 
mailing the annual passes for tlv 
athletic evtmts to all members of tlv 
Varsity Clan who were not in arrears. 
The Tartan is also being mailed regu 
larly to all paid-up members. Any 
member who is not receiving the Tar 
tan or who has not received his an 
nual pass should correspond imme­
diately with Mr. llirsch, 923 North 
St. Clair street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
tralized control. Members of the 
board took application blanks and 
pledged themselves to secure addi­
tional members.
After a short talk by Mr. Bright, 
retiring president, the meeting ad­
journed on motion.
GOVERNORS MEET
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Schanley 0120
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
"Oakland's Mont Popuar Eating Placo"
114.11fi.118 Atwood St., Pittsburgh, Pa
FORBES BUILDINO BARBER SHOP 
John Clcoro, Prop.
Facial and Scalp Mattano and Children's 
Hair Cutting Our SpoclaltUa
SCIENCE ALUMNI MEET
3617 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Phone Schenley 9233 Plttsburflh, Pa,
Minutes of regular monthly meet 
ing, Monday, October IS, 1920:
Present—Messrs. Wilson, Orr, Rauh 
Hirsch, Doherty, Engstrom, Nuttall 
Bright for Gaston and Tilbrook.
Absent—Floyd.
Minutes of the last regular meeting 
of March 15 read and approved.
President Wilson took the chair.
Letter from F. S. Bloom, thanking 
Alumni Association for Scholarship 
read.
General review of the Alumni Aaso 
elation for the past year by Mr. Til 
brook. Paid-up membership at this 
time was given as follows: Member 
255, Associate members 154, making 
a total of 409. Balance cash on hand 
$017.41, with bills all paid.
Moved by Rauh: If not contrary t 
provisions of existing constitution, 
that an invitation he extended to tin 
graduates of the Division of Psy 
chology and Academic Studies to come 
into tin1 Alumni Association of the 
Division of Science «ml Engineering 
tts associate members until such time 
as they organize an association • o 
their own, or n general association i 
formed, in order that these men mn 
not be lost to Tech. Seconded by 
Kngstrom; motion carried.
Plans were made for an active mem­
bership campaign for the coming year 
working towards the end of a better 
alumni organization with more con-
Returns of the Lehigh Game 
At the time of going to press, ar­
rangements are under wap to obtain 
a detailed play-by-play report of the 
Lehigh game, to be given out to the 
student body and other interested per­
sons at tho Union as the game prog- 
reHHes on Saturday afternoon. Notice 
definitely confirming this arrangement 
will be placed around the campus if 
same can be successfully completed.
MINUTES 
Board of Oovcrnors' meeting, Thurs­
day, October 21, 1020.
jvir. Leo ofi'ered his resignation as 
secretary. Resigned accepted.
jvioved—1That >). W. Batman, ’20, be 
elected secretary. Seconded. Motion 
carried.Moved—That Mr. Rabenstein be 
elected on board of directors to lill the 
un&xpired term of •Mr. Koontz. Sec­
onded. Motion carried.
Moved- That Mr. Lee be elected on 
tho board cl directors to fill the un­
expired term of Mr. Braun. Second­
ed. Motion carried.
Moved—-That secretary file old 
books of the association ami purchase 
new books for the current year. Sec­
onded. Motion carried.
Moved—i hat all special committees 
and standing committees be dis­
charged anti a vote of thanks be ex­
tended thciin for their work. Second­
ed. Motion carried.
Moved—That retiring secretary, 
new secretary and treasurer be in­
structed by the president to audit all 
old books and report at the next meet­
ing. Seconded. Motion carried.
Moved—That the board be author­
ized to issue a warrant to Mr. Wag­
ner for bill gi' $0.00 for refreshments. 
Seconded. Motion carried.
New Business 
Discussion on issuing membership 
cards as receipts to paid-up' members. 
Moved that secretary get all informa­
tion in regard to the cards and report 
at next meeting. Seconded. Motion 
carried.Moved—That secretary send out 
statements to all active members and 
associate members not paid up. Sec­
onded. Motion carried.
General
Discussion on the past, present and 
future of the Alumni Association; 
complete reorganization and sugges­
tions as to how to interest the gradu- 
iting classes so as to receive their 
loyal support. Moved—That each year 
the incoming president of the associa­
tion send a letter to the G. I. T. 
Alumnus, addressed to the Alumni 
Association, giving trem detailed facts 
of the association and of the good 'it 
intends to do. Seconded. Motion car­
ried.
Suggestions 
Mr. Lee suggested and requested 
that more Industry Alumni come to 
the Pittsburgh Clan meetings in the 
Fulton Cafeteria the first Thursday 
of each month.
The board meeting was full of 
snap and everyone pulling for a bet­
ter organization.
Upon motion meeting adjourned at 
0 P. M.
(Signed) .J. W. BATMAN, Secretary.
RI0IN1 I0MBKR THE I)ATM
On the first Monday of each month 
Hoard of Governors' meeting, Alumni 
Association, MargarH Morrison Divi­
sion.
On the first Thursday of each 
month, Clan dinner, (J:M o’clock, Ful 
ton Cafeteria, Fulton Building.
On the second Monday of each 
month, Board of Governors’ meeting 
Alumni Association, Division of Sci­
ence and Engineering, Alumni office, 
Central Building.
On the second Wednesday of each 
month, Board of Directors’ meeting 
Alumni Federation, Alumni office, 
Central Building.
HERTZ ELECTED CHEER LEADER
Are You Going to Lehigh?
There will be \ or 5 additional seats 
available in the special car which will 
take the squad to Lehigh. Those in­
terested in going with the squad, 
which will leave Friday morning at 
9:40 from Union Station, will please 
communicate with the graduate man­ager-.
IllillllllPJ
Tickets for the football game may be obtained at Spaldings, Wagner’s Sporting Goods Co., or from the Athletic Associa­tion.
Scale of Prices Are
fg Allegheny Game, November G:¿p General Admission ..............$1.25If Reserved Seat ......................$1.75
g W. & J. Game, November 20:S Generla Admission ..............$1.501 Reserved Seat......................$2.00
Loát and Found
Found—On the campus October 21, 
a fountain pen. Apply Office of the 
Dean of Men.
<’OUND—On campus October 19, a 
small gold pin. Apply Office of Dean 
of Men.
The Balanced Life
The life without religious development is lop-sided. 
Oakland M. E. Church and Community House offers social 
recreation together with a chance to grow religiously. A 
house mother is on duty all day to make it pleasant for girls 
as well as men. Bible classes meet Sunday at 10 a. m. and 
4 p. m.; inspiring church services at 11:00 a. m. and 8:00 p. 
m. Social good time and Young Peoples’ Meeting 5:00 to 
7:30 Sunday evening. Opportunity for those who wish to 
be useful to help churches thruout the city. The house is 
open every night from 7:00 to 11:00 for social good fellow­
ship.
BRING YOUR FRIENDS
3904 Forbes St.
LEF AX
supplies sold by 
A. J. HYND, Junior Mech. 
Locker 2365, Science Bldg. 
Opp. Plebe Locker Room
* 4915 Forbes Street 4*Phone: Schenley 9211
C. M. SSault
3702 Forbes Street
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
TOR YOUNG MEN AMU MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
Cl A. O. &0„ 1920
o me college man who 
a pet clothing store
The weekly school meeting of the 
Division of Arts was held last Wed 
nesday. John Todd, president, pre­
sided.
The plans and possibilities of the 
annual ball and extravaganza were 
discussed. A rep'ort of the ball com­
mittee was read by W. J. Perkins, 
chairman. Suggestions of a Spanish 
or Turkish ball were heard, but in or­
der to give more time for discussion 
and suggestions, no definite action 
will be taken until next week.
Mr. Perkins also requested that 
anyone who has any suggestions, or 
can write a sketch for a scene in the 
extravaganza, see Perkins or Smertz.
Miss Crump, chairman of the dance 
committee, stated that dances will be 
held every second Wednesday after­noon.
Ross Ilertz was elected Design 
cheer leader.
“GOPHKltS,” "IIOOSIKRS,”
"YVOLV FIÙNE," SINK MRS"
A meeting Prairie Land Men will 
be called to order on Monday, Novem­
ber I. in Room II, Machinery llall. If 
you come from any of the Central 
States, east or west of the Mississippi 
and north of the Mason-Dixon Lino, 
bo sure to come, tts the success of 
the club dépends on each and every one of you.
Remember, November 1, Room 11, 
Machinery Hall, at 4:80.
You have the right idea. Next 
to having a banker that trusts 
you, there is no better business 
than buying your tilings from 
a merchant who is worthy of 
all your confidence.
If you haven’t a pet clothing 
store, look up the one where 
Society Brand Clothes are sold.
In the first place,it’s a selected 
store. We were attracted by the 
merchant and he was attracted 
by the style, quality, and integ­
rity of our clothes.
Like attracts like, 
law.
That
Go to that store and ask to look 
at his Society Brand Clothes. 
Try on until you get the style 
you like, which you surely will 
in a matter of minutes.
Then remember this. Men 
are not disappointed in 
Society Brand Suits . They give 
a very peculiar and interesting 
satisfaction.
It is the satisfaction that comes 
from knowing—even before you 
walk into the store—that you are 
going to get something you will 
always be giad you bought. 
How’s that/
WITH THE VARIED GRADES OF CLOTHING FLOODING THE MARKET, 
LOOK FOR THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE
ALFRED DECKER COHN, Makers SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES, Limited, for Canada
Chicago New York Montreal
CTYLE HEAD QUARTERS
O where j§>0ftety UranÒ (ElotheJä aresold
BOGGS & BUHL
501 Federal Street
GEO. IVI- WILSON
223 Filili Ave., Chamber ol Commerce Bldg., Wood & Dlamond]St.
