Volume 87, Issue 4
Vol uVme
Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania21 September 1992
Anne Lopez/Tartan Photographer
Three was the magic number as Posdnuos, 
Trugoy, and Mace of De La Soul rocked Sklbo 
j Ballroom on Friday night. The AB concert 
drew a crowd of students who spent nearly 
an hour listening to the sounds of this Strong 
island hip-hop trio performing without the aid 
of turntables or any other special equipment.
Samuel Greenfield/Tartan Photographer
CMDS revises student 
meal plan program
By KEEGAN FOLK
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
There have been many changes in Carnegie Mellon Dining Service (CMDS) since last year, involving new meal plan packages, reorganized dining facilities, and a newly promoted director.The format of the meal plan options and some of the dining facilities are unfamiliar to both return­ing students and freshmen.Many of these changes have taken place since July 1, when Roger Heydt became director of CMDS. Heydt was previously the associate director of the program. Since he took over the position of direc­tor, he has been able to initiate many of the plans for an improved CMDS that had been in the works since last year.At the end of the last fiscal year, CMDS was well into the red. “The intention [of the changes] is two­fold: to achieve customer satisfaction and to make CMDS financially solvent,” said Heydt.The changes include a completely different selec­tion of meal plan packages. Instead of purchasing a set number of meals per week, students now buy Block Meals or an option called Constant Pass. There is also the CampusXpress (Validine) ac­count into which students deposit money to use at any dining facility and other stores on campus. DineXpress accounts can only be used at Dining Service locations.The benefit of the packages over previous years is that there is no “use it or lose it” policy. This means that if students do not use their entire allotment of meals in one semester, the remaining meals cany over to the next semester. If all meals are not used by the end of a school year, they are credited to a DineXpress account. By the time of graduation, if there are still remaining meals, a student will receive 100 percent of the dollar value of the unused meals. Withdrawal from a meal account prior to graduation returns 85 percent of the value of unused meals.In years past, if the set number of meals per week were not used, they were lost. Also, there are no longer time periods for meals. The cost of this year’s meal plan packages are roughly equal to last year’s options.
Another change this year is in the dining facili­ties. Instead of the cafeteria-style service that was there before, Morewood Court now houses Taco Bell and The Comer Oven. Taco Bell is a smaller version of the familiar Mexican fast food restau­rant. The Comer Oven is an expanded version of what formerly was known as MorePizza, featuring various styles of pizza and more variety of toppings than its predecessor. Taco Bell seems to be popular among students so far, but Heydt says it is too soon to say just how successful it will be. Changes in the menu offerings of Kiltie Court and the Highlander have also been made. Heydt says some of these changes came about after “working closely with CMU Vegetarians last spring.” The facilities are trying to offer not only more meatless dishes, but also more vegan selections, which contain neither meat nor dairy products.Heydt and Dennis Stanhoff, Associate Director of Dining Service want students to know that the major difference between the CMDS of old and the new service is that they will be more responsive to the demands of the student body. Heydt said, “The program is constantly improving, but that doesn’t mean it’s always perfect. We’re flexible and willing to listen to ideas.” Any future alterations in dining services or hours of operation will be made accord- ingto where students are spending themostmoney. “It’s supply and demand,” said Heydt. For the time being, serving hours will remain as they are, as it is too early in the semester to detect any necessary changes. CMDS has supplied comment cards at each of its dining facilities to open the lines of communication with students.By offering the more flexible meal plan packages and some variety of eating facilities, CMDS hopes to please. Are students happy with their dining options? There are approximately 2,300 students on campus with some kind of meal plan. Of this number, about 1,100 are freshmen and are re­quired to have a meal plan.There seems to be a lot of concern over the complexity of the system, especially the DineXpress and CampusXpress options. Many students are not clear on which can be used at what locations. DineXpress can be used at Kiltie Court, High- 
Please see CMDS , page 5
Threwa stmgthThreh Saturday against Rochester.
Classifieds..................................15Comics.........................................L4 * Activism on campus.
Diversions...............................L9 pa&eFeatures......................................LIForum..........................................L6 * The War on Drugs; whatSports...........................................11 should be done?Calendar................................L12 See page 7.
VoxPopuli...............................L12• The Amazing Johnathan.
See page Lll.
Photographer
Don’t Forget!
October 5 is the 
last day to regis­
ter to vote in the 
November elec­
tions.
icn ubePor gd ,ygM eh htgedhtb mthfehD
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellon University, once again ranking among the top 25 national higher educa­tion institutions, moved from 24th to 19th, a jump of five places, according to the annual 
U.S. News and 
World Report sur­vey for 1991.CMU was ranked 19th in the coun­try, with Harvard University ranked number one for the third year running.CMU was ranked 24th in the previ­ous year’s survey.The U.S. News &
World Report sur­vey utilized statis- ¦¦¦¦¦¦ tical information from students and faculty at 1,373 educational institutions. Ranking was also broken down for particular statistics, like fac­ulty student ratio and SAT scores,With an overall score of 89.2, CMU ranked just below Brown University and just above Wash­ington University. Carnegie Mellon had one of the best stu- dent-to-faculty ratios, nine to one, and one of the highest dol­lar amounts of faculty resources (15th out of all schools surveyed). However, CMU also trailed many of the top schools in cer­tain areas. Graduation rate was a low 69 percent, and freshman
class retention rate was only 86 percent, where figures for schools above CMU were con­sistently in the high 90s. De­spite this, the overall impres­sion of CMU’s climb in the rankings has been mostly fa­vorable.Carnegie Mellon President
“We’re [CMU administration] 
extremely pleased with our 
move up the rankings list, [and] 
we expect to make further 
steps up in the future
L President Robert Mehrabian
Robert Mehrabian expressed great pride when informed of the national magazine’s find­ings.“It’s great that the U. S. News 
and World Report survey veri­fies what many of Vo havo long known — Carnegie Mellon is among a select group of the very best universities in this country,” said Mehrabian, who went on to describe a vision where CMU was “of the first rank in all... endeavors.”“The rankings recognize that our renewed emphasis on un­dergraduate education is hav­ing an impact and it gives us strong momentum to continue
this initiative. One of the val­ues of these types of surveys is to compare your performance in various categories with those of other institutions, especially those in leadership positions.“[The Carnegie Mellon ad­ministration is] extremely pleased with our move up the rankings list, but by pursuing con­tinuous improve­ment of our aca­demic programs we expect to make further steps up in the fu­ture.”Overall rank­ing for each insti­tution was deter­mined by a com­plex equation in- 
mmmtmmm volving spending of funds with re­gard to the number of studonts and instructors and statistics provided by oach university, as woll as by tho American Association of University Pro- fesBors and the Council for Aid to Education.Each school was also further ranked in subdivisions based on guidelines created by the Camegio Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.“We hope to continue to build on tho growing reputation of Carnegie Mellon because it is a valuable aBset for our stu­dents and for our graduates when they enter the work world,” said Mehrabian.
ROTC holds ceremony 
lauding CMU trainees
By STEPH STINE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Army ROTC held its annual Activation and Awards Ceremony on the Cathedra] ofLeaminglawn last Thursday. CMU cadets joined cadets from Pitt, Robert Morris, LaRoche, and Chatham for this symbolic and honorary event.The activation portion of the ceremony signified the passing of command from the cadre, those officially in charge of the Army ROTC program, to the cadets who are in their fourth year of ROTC training. These cadets now will fill staff positions until this spring.During the ceremony, cadets were recognized for academic achievement, ROTC honors, Ad­vance Camp performance, and army school completion. CMU students received awards in each of these categories:Jason Lange, ROTC protocol officer and a senior, received the scholar award, ROTC honors, a Superior at Advance Camp award, a silver medal athlete at Advance Camp award, and the Cadet Troop Leader Training award.Jesse Pearson, senior, was rec­ognized for earning ROTC hon­ors, a Superior at Advance Camp award, and a platinum medal athlete at advance camp award. He also was honored as an air assault army school graduate.Another senior from CMU, Rob­ert Yauger was recognized for graduating from Advance Camp and the Cadet Troop Leader Training army school, as well as achieving ROTC honors.David Gault, also a senior, was identified as an Advance Camp
Kerry Hogan/Tartan Photographer 
Army ROTC lines up in front of the Cathedral of Learning at University 
of Pittsburgh. CMU ROTC members were honored for their 
accomplishments academically and In Advance Camp and army school.
graduate with a platinum medal athlete award.Nicholas Alexander, a junior who acts as the cadet commander Bergeant major, was honored for graduating from airborne army school and attaining ROTC hon­ors.Other award winners included sophomores Thomas Henke and Frederick Wong, who achieved Dean’s List status last term. Another academic award win­ner, Sean Olson, junior, received the scholar award for having a QPA higher than 2.9 last term. Also honored for achieving ROTC honors were sophomores Davis Bradford, Henke, Danette Skraastad, Ashli Thompson, and Wong.Additionally, ROTC scholar­ship recipients were recognized at the ceremony. Representing CMU were freshmen Sharon Bradley, Scott Cochenour, Randall Dahl, Jessie McGee,
John Moran, George Schmidt, Lynne Simons, and Skraastad.ROTC honors cadets are highly motivated cadets who have suc­cessfully completed training be­yond standard ROTC training. These cadets are also known as Rangers, and they received black berets at the Activation and Awards Ceremony.On the other hand, Advance Camp awards were awarded to cadets who are now seniors and who were tested physically and mentally this past summer at Advance Camp.The platinum athlete award is given to cadets who score above a 300 in the physical tests; like­wise, the silver athlete award is presented to cadets who score between 280 and 289 in the physi­cal tests. In the end, the cadets receive a final score. If a cadet obtains an overall score of five, he or she qualifies for the Superior at Advance Camp award.

---------------------------------------------------

2sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yylTHIS JUST INS SS
European Community falters economically
BRUSSELS, Sept. 18 (DJ) — Until recently, the European Community’s (EC) progress toward closer union re­sembled an express train. When a dozen or so countries on the fringes of the EC began moving eagerly to jump aboard, they envisioned monetary stability, closer political integration, and the best hope for peace in Europe, The Wall Street 
Journal reported.Today, those neighbors are watching with growing alarm as the EC’s mon­etary system flies apart, French voters threaten to kill off the crucial Maastricht treaty on European union in Sunday’s referendum, and the death count climbs in former Yugoslavia.“We’re very worried,” says Crzyszof Popowicz, first secretary at Poland’s EC mission. Popowicz’s biggest worry is that Europe may be heading into a long pe­
riod of disarray, in which national inter­ests triumph over neighborliness.“We fear that the defeat of Maastricht would reinforce all of the nationalistic forces in Europe... particularly in Ger­many,” Popowicz says.Jacques Attali, president of the Euro­pean Bank for Reconstruction and De­velopment, goes further. In an article urging the French to approve Maas­tricht, Attali warned this week that a defeat of the treaty would lead to “the tribalization of the continent.” In such a situation, “we could no longer stop the destructive spiral of division and wars,” he wrote.Even if the Maastricht treaty survives, the popular revolt against anything smacking of a European superstate has transformed the outlook for expanding the EC.
In one sense, enlargement may be simplified because if the EC train stalls or creaks ahead slowly, it might be easier for potential members to jump on board. Others could conclude that they will still be able to catch up later and needn’t rush.Jan Strasky, the conservative prime minister of the soon-to-be-dissolved fed­eral govemmentofCzechoslovakia, says that a French no vote would be “a good thing. In our view, Maastricht goes too far, too fast.”The problem is that the fundamental differences among the 12 EC members on how much sovereignty to cede to a central European bureaucracy, and how fast, might divert attention from more peripheral matters such as admitting new members. Such a debate could take years, leaving potential members in
limbo.For many politicians in Eastern and Central Europe, long-term Umbo is a frightening prospect. Hungary, Poland, and Czechoslovakia already are disillu­sioned with the meager amount of their food, textiles, and steel that has been allowed into EC markets. Nonetheless, the aim of joining the EC within about lOyearshashelped them persuade their citizens to endure austerity in the inter­est of catching up with EC standards.If a no vote in France snuffs out that beacon, says Gyorgy Granasztoi, Hungary’s ambassador to the EC, “I think it would be a catastrophe.” Granasztoi fears that disarray in the EC would distract it from helping Eastern Europe at a time when economic aid and diplomatic support is urgently needed.For the rich countries that already
have a foot in the EC door — Sweden,' Finland, Austria, and Switzerland — the worries are less urgent but still trou­bling. Along with the three other mem~ bers of the European Free Trade Asso­ciation, or EFTA, they have agreed with the EC to form a 19-member European Economic Area, designed to eliminate trade barriers and foster a unified mar­ket of 380 million people.The hitch is that the non-EC members in this market must submit to laws and regulations written by the EC members alone. That’s one reason why four of the EFTA countries already have applied, for membership; a fifth, Norway, reT mains divided over whether to apply.The EC’s sorry spectacle is adding: confusion to the public debate in both Norway and Switzerland, where anti- EC sentiment also remains strong.
ithwewtgarB audhdPeu 
rgmtgaDear wdhFg tww .j
WASHINGTON, Sept. 15 (DJ)—Alook at the economic programs put forward by George Bush and Bill Clinton suggests these two can’t — or won’t add, The Wall Street Journal reported. Even if generous allowances are made for elec- tion-year hyperbole and estimating differences, both programs are promising hundreds of bil­lions of dollars more in tax cuts, spending in­creases and deficit reduction than their specific proposals will pay for.At a time when discontent with government is already at historic highs, the faulty arithmetic of Bush and Clinton seems certain to heighten voter cynicism. Moreover, neither candidate is giving voters — or the financial markets — grounds to expect real progress in shrinking the nation's $300 billion-plus annual budget deficit, which both agree is hobbling the country’s long­term growth prospects.“There’s no question that the issue not being discussed in real detail in this campaign is the size of deficit, and whatitisdoingtotheeconomy,” says GOP Sen. Warren Rudman of New Hamp­shire.Chances for deficit reduction in the next four years rest largely on the hope that the winning candidate will abandon his campaign rhetoric shortly after the election and deal with the prob­lem in his first year in office, when the President’s power is traditionally greatest.For Bush, who is likely to be squeezed between conservative critics of his 1990 budget deal and a Democratic Congress, such a reversal will be all but impossible. For Clinton, it’s possible, but not likely.Bush’s fiscal rhetoric starts with the insistence thnt he can balance the budget without raising taxes. That alono makes his plan unworkable in the eyes of many budget experts. However, Bush
has added to the likely shortfall by proposing programs that either hack away at tax revenue or increase federal spending.The President has suggested a variety of tax cuts, including a one-percentage-point cut in rates and an increase in the personal exemption, that would cost at least $160 billion over five years. And he has proposed a variety of new spending programs, including a health-care plan costing $100 billion over five years and a job- training program costing $10 billion.All of this would be paid for with spending cuts. In addition, Bush has indicated he would devote a further $300 billion of spending cuts to deficit reduction over the next five years. In all, the White House would have to come up with $570 billion in spending cuts. Yet by his own count, Bush has specified only about $130 billion in cuts.The shortfall: $440 billion, with no indication of where it would come from. The cuts are the largest ever proposed — let alone enacted — in the past. To close the gap, the government would have to hack most politically sensitive programs, such as Medicare and farm benefits by as much as 30 percent.For his part, Clinton starts out with an advan­tage in this math contest, because he is willing to contemplate tax increases and deeper defense cuts. But it’s an advantage he quickly squan­ders. His proposal to raise taxes on the wealthy is eaten up by his tax cut for the middle class. And his plan for $38 billion in additional defense cuts over the next four years only begins to pay for his $220 billion in “investments” in educa­tion, infrastructure, and so on. Clinton fills the gap with an assortment of spending cuts and tax increases, but at least half of those are question­able.
A.obeu .hwauewaw dh uMdeuaMuch about each candidate dissatisfies
benefit from a feeling among vot­ers about Clinton “that there is something about the guy that makes them uneasy.”Poll results, however, suggest that neutralizing the economic issue at this late date is a huge, and perhaps impossible task.Voters believe Clinton would
“Voters’ desire for change 
is a stronger force than is 
trust.”
— 1/inre* Rre*f*Hn and election> the reason isvmce tsregno ana iikeiy t0 be his handling of 
Peter Hart, pollsters gMa audhdPp- sMa gqd RtuO—................................................. ............... tors most often cited as a
WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 (DJ)— Americans believe George Bush to be a finer person than Bill Clinton. But they think Clinton would make the better president.With six weeks left to go in the presidential campaign, a Wall 
Street JournaltNBC News poll finds that voters place greater confidence in Clinton than in Bush to deal with most issues likely to directly affect their lives. Consequently,Clinton is the candidate they still favor for Presi­dent — even though they are more queasy about his personal character than Bush’s. do a better job than Bush in deal-“At present, voters’ desire for ing with the economy, creating change is a stronger drivingforce new jobs, addressing health care than is trust,” according to Re- and education, reducing the fed- publican pollster Vince Breglio eral deficit, protecting the envi- and Democratic pollster Peter ronment,and“handlingadomes- Hart, who conducted the survey tic crisis.” for the Journal and NBC News. Even in the areas of taxes and “In comparisons between George getting people off welfare, where Bush and Bill Clinton that focus Democrats have traditionally in- on change, Clinton dominates; in curred voter suspicion, Clinton is comparisonsthatcenterontrust, judged likelier to do better than Bush at least becomes competi- the President. Thirty-seven per- tive.” cent of those polled favor ClintonEd Goeas, president of the on taxes, compared with 31 per- Tarrance Group, a Republican cent for Bush, while 46 percent polling firm, argues that if Bush favor Clinton on getting people can “neutralize the economic is- off welfare, compared with 24 sue” he might be in a position to percent for Bush.
Much of Clinton’s advantage on tax matters stems from disen­chantment with Bush over the abandonment of his 1988 “no new; taxes” pledge.“I don’t believe the comment, should have been made,” says.1 Don Jennings, a 39 year old truck manufacturing assembly, worker in Denton, Texas, who was among the 1,506' voters surveyed for the poll.The poll findings make clear that if Bush loses the
reason not to re-elect the President are insufficient atten­tion to domestic problems and policies that favor the wealthy over the average person.Bush still fares better than Clinton in a few significant policy areas — most notably foreign policy. By a margin of 65 percent to 16 percent, voters see Bush as better able to handle the issue; by a similar margin, they see him as better able to deal with a crisis on the foreign front.
News briefs courtesy of 
Dow Jones, Inc. Layout by 
Matt Adler
Sponsored by Department ol Student Activities
kfebbr Rdm CatwamrMej
Carnegie Mellon University 
Saturday, October 3, 1992 
9:00 am —- 4:00 pm in Skibo
Registration Materials will be available at 
the information desk on September 23rd.
Deadline for Registration: September 30th
The program is open to all members of the 
campus community.
Workshops
A Celebration of Leadership Sarah Weddington, Victorious Attorney in Landmark Supreme Court Case 
Roe vs. Wade; Professor of Law at University of Texas at Austin
Organizational Goal Setting Dr. Larry Cartwright, Senior Lecturer and Lab Director, Department of Civil 
Engineering, CMU
Membership Recruitment and Retention Harriet Schwartz, Assistant to the Dean of Student Affairs, CMU
Professional Ethics Dr. Peter Madsen, Executive Director, Center for Design for Educational Computing, CMU
Setting an Agenda and Leading a Meeting Gloria Hill, Director, Carnegie Mellon Action Project, CMU
Event Planning Lisa Lane, Associate Director, Special Events, CMU
How To Get What You Want Teresa Campbell, Area Coordinator, Housing, CMU
Making Effective Presentations Bonnie Gorman, Assistant Director of Student Activities, CMU
Passing the Leadership Torch Dr. Jack Midgley, Adjunct Professor, Heinz School, CMU
Everyone Has a Part to Play... Making the Most of Group Interaction Amy Ginther, Assistant Director of 
Housing/Residence Life, CMU
Case Studies in Leadership Michael Murphy, Dean of Student Adairs, CMU

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyl U
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT S8
SENATE g
Minutes of 15 September 1992Roll was taken at 7:05 pm, meeting called to order at 7:15 pm.
Senators Present: Albert (CFA), Altmann (CS), DeRoss (MCS), Dean (IM), Engel (CIT), Evans (CIT), Halvaksz (HSS), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), Hummel (CIT), Kline (MCS), Knauer (HSS), Knight (MCS), Loomis (GSIA), Mc- Garvey (IM), Martin (HSS), Potthast (HSS), Shah (M.atL.), Singh (CFA), Spaulding (CFA), Tomblyn (MCS), Way (HEINZ).
Senators Absent: Ely (SCS), Gaspari (CFA), Kraje (SUPA), Moore (MCS), Robe (GSIA), Sung (GSIA), Trudwig(M.atL.).
Ex-Officios Present: Assis­tant to the Dean Tim Foster (Student Affairs), Gesmond (President), Dean Murphy, Pott­hast (SDC), Wolfson (GSO).
Ex-Officios Absent: Laefer (Treasurer), Papa (AB).
Approval of the Minutes: We apologize for the lack of dis­tributed minutes from last week. Copies of the edited version are available in The Tartan.Minutes accepted.
Special Business:Special Allocation: Kappa Al­pha Theta, $400.Purpose: Loan for the up front costs of the Mr. Fraternity con­test. Profits from the contest would be used to pay back loan. Passed.Change in Budget Line: Big Brothers & Big Sisters.Purpose: To change budget line for travel from $5000 to $2000. Use the remaining $3000 for con­
sulting purposes. Passed.Audience Participation: [...]Heidi Hoover, Tartan Editor- in-Chief, informed Senate about a recent workshop done by The Tartan Editorial Board with Harriet Schwartz. This workshop was on pluralism and diversity, and Hoover recommends it to Senate.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Mike 
Tomblyn): They have officially not had two meetings, and they have lost one member due to three missed meetings.
Campus Affairs (Eric Alt- 
mann): Food for Thought is run­ning tomorrow through Thurs­day. Terrel needs people to work on Thursday. The smoking reso­lution modifications were drawn, but we’re waiting until next week to make recommendations. The original version of the resolution was considered unfair to smok­ers. We hope to integrate the cur­rent resolution into CMU policy.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): Talked to GSO regarding a common fiscal policy between the two organiza­tions so that groups requesting money don’t play one GSO orga­nization against the other. F&R wants to increase the percentage of student activities fees. Meet­ing with the Voices United Gos­pel Choir is scheduled.
Public Relations (Shawn 
Knight): Apologies for the mis­takes in last week’s minutes. The ad in The Tartan regarding the University Student Advisory Committee does not exclude any­one who is already on Senate or on a committee. All interested are encouraged to join. [...] PR committee meeting 6:30 pm Tues­day in the Student Senate office in the Tartan loft.
Constitution and Rules 
(Greg Haverkamp): The Con­stitution and Rules committees will start working together. First meeting is 8 pm Thursday in the Senate Office. Everyone is wel­come to be on the Constitution committee.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Brian Papa): (read by McGarvey) De La Soul plays at 7 pm Friday in the Skibo Ballroom. Free with CMU ID. Tuesday, September 25, Fun Flicks in the Skibo Ballroom. All day long; free with CMU ID. Friday, Sep­tember 22, the Amazing Jonathan. Cost is $2 with CMU ID. [...]
SDC (Amy Potthast): Com­mittees formed last week. [...]
Greek Council (Christian 
Bareford): [...] Fraternity dry rush started on Sunday, ends on September 25. Delta Gamma holding Anchor Clanker on Sep­tember 26. Greek Blood Drives the week of September 21 in the Morewood Rec. Room. Greek Council considering starting Pledge Education seminars in No­vember. Topics will include date rape and alcoholism. The Greek Leadership Retreat will be held during the first weekend in Octo­ber. If other groups would like to work with Greeks, contact Jen Cucaro, Emma Gosden, or Chris­tian Bareford.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): Chose officers for GSO. Need a new Vice President. Meeting held Septem­ber 9; next meeting October 1 at 5:30 pm in the Coffeehouse. Groups wishing to hold events in the Coffeehouse should pick up a copy of “How to Plan Your Event in the Coffeehouse.” Coffeehouse hours are Monday and Friday 11:30 am to 5:30 pm, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday 11:30
am to 9:00 pm. One day retreat for minorities will be held Sep­tember 19 and a retreat for wo­men will be October 10; contact Office of the Associate Provost for more details. The schedule for Graduate Student Seminars is now available; contact John Hinshaw for details. [...]Students interested in partici­pating in the East End Coopera­tive Ministries volunteer tutor­ing program should contact hread@miata.ece.cmu.edu. All GSO documents are available online in the GSO account on Andrew.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): No report.
Student Affairs (Tim Fos­
ter): Waiting for nominations for Student Advisory Commit­tee. Senators needed for the Uni­versity Disciplinary Committee. President’s office sponsoring trip to Pirates vs. Expos game. Skills for Leadership program will be held on October 3 from 9 to 4 pm. 
[...]
Officer Reports:
President (Natalie Ges­
mond): The new structure of the Executive Branch of Student Government was presented. The outline is as follows: 1) Office of the President. 2) President’s Cabinet consists of all Project chairs, Public Relations chair and Student Govt. Treasurer. Serves as the President’s Advi­sory Board on proposed projects and campus issues. 3) Project Committees [...] 4) Student Govt. Treasurer. 5) Public Relations. If interested in any facet of the Ex­ecutive Branch, please contact Gesmond at the Student Govern­ment Office, x2115 or at resi­dence, x4935. Office hours this week will be incorporated with the Food for Thought campaign
in front of Doherty Hall on Wednesday, September 16, 11 am to noon. [...] We will be discussing interim reports ofTask Force on Teaching and Task Force on Advising. I will have a report for you at the next Senate meet­ing.
Treasurer (Jay Laefer): Went to Budget Planning Ses­sions. Encouraged members of student organizations who want allocations .to go to Budget Plan­ning Sessions. Meeting with F&R and the Voices United Gos­pel Choir Wednesday to discuss the freezing of funding last spring.
Chair (Matt McGarvey): We found a new secretary, Naomi Berner. I will meet with Lara Wolfson and Natalie Gesmond to discuss issues between GSO, Student Senate, and the student body.
Old Business: None.
New Business:Tomblyn moved that Dawn Wallhauser, an H&SS freshman, become a member at large of Stu­dent Senate. No objections. In the eyes of the Chair it passed.
Discussion:Discussion was held on fall elec­tions, how spaces in Senate should be filled, illegal postering by Desert Flower, illegal postering by Sigma Tau Gamma, possible compensation for top
executive members of student government. [...]
Announcements:Dennis Hayes, founder of Earth Day, will be in Skibo Ball­room on Tuesday, September 22 from 8 to 9:30 pm. Will be speak­ing on the environmental move­ment in a lecture entitled “A, Deeper Shade of Green: the Poli­tics, Economy and Culture of Environmentalism.”The SEAC voter registration, drive will run until October 5,, Monday and Thursday from 11.. am to 3 pm in front of Doherty. Hall. [...]Amnesty International will have petitions to be signed in front of Doherty Hall on Wednes­day, September 23. [...] Vacancies on Senate: one HSS, one SCS, one CIT, one Heinz, one GSIA. Petitions for these posi­tions will be collected until Sep­tember 28.Senate needs a Parliamentar­ian. If interested, talk to Matt; McGarvey. [...]Meeting adjourned at 9:20 pm.
[...] indicates editing
Submitted by 
NAOMX BERNER
Edited by 
BRENDAN McFEELY
Correction...
Last week in the Forum Section, Susan Ambroso and Barbara Lazarus’ positions were given incorrectly. Susan Ambroso is directoroftheUniversity Teaching Center, and Barbara Lazarus is the associate provost for academic projects.
The Tartan corrects all errors of fact. If you know of an error, 
please contact Heidi Hoover at x211.l, or write to her care of The 
Tartan.
Bring us your ideas...
The Student Government here at Carnegie Mellon is chosen by the students that exercise their 
power of vote. Each semester we hold elections to chose Student Senators to serve in the leg­
islative branch, and during the spring election the Student Government President is also cho­
sen to serve in the executive branch of your government. We ARE accountable to you, the 
students. And we want to hear what you have to say!
Stop in at the Student Government office in the Tartan Loft (above the Tartan Lounge in 
Skibo.) President Natalie Gesmond holds office hours there every Thursday from 9-10pm and 
you can make an appointment to see any of your Senators by calling x2115. You can also 
speak your mind any Tuesday at the Student Senate meetings held in the Wherret Room at 
7pm.
CARNEGIE MELLON STUDENT GOVERNMENT
Student Senate is the legislative branch of Student Government. It creates policies and over­
sees the funding of most student groups and student run events on campus. With a budget of 
over $200,000 at their disposal, Student Senators hold a position of responsibility on cam­
pus. Senators have the chance to address the ideas and concerns of their college within the 
university. Could you be a Senator?
Student Senate has vacancies in the following colleges: CIT, GSIA, H&SS, Heinz, and SCS.
If you are interested, contact Student Senate chair Matt McGarvey at x2115 or attend the 
next meeting, Tuesday at 7pm in the Wherret Room.
or just bring yourself!

---------------------------------------------------

ABB Environmental Co.AT&TAir Products and Chemicals, Inc. Aluminum Company of America American Management Systems, Inc.Andersen Consulting Apple Computer, Inc. Battelle Pacific National Labs Bell Atlantic CorporationBellcoreCentral Intelligence Agency Chrysler Corporation ConvexDigital Equipement CorporationDow U.S.A. Duquesne Light Co.EDSFluor Daniel Co. Ford Motor Company I SystemsFormation, Inc. General Electric GenRad, Incorporated Gordian, Inc. HRB Systems IBM United States ICI Americas Inc. Intel Corporation Kurt Salmon Associates, Inc. Laurence Livermore National Labs Microsoft Corporation Miles, Incorporated. Morgan Stanley Motorola, Inc. NEC Systems Laboratory, Inc. Northern Telecom & BNR Oracle Corporation Peterson Consulting Limited Partnership Price Waterhouse Information Primavera Systems, Inc. Radian Corporation Salomon Brothers Schlumberger Sony Corporation Sun Microsystems, Incorporated Symbol Technology TASC (The Analytical Sciences Corp.) Tne Proctor & Gamble Company The Timken Company The Travelers U.S. Department of EnergyU.S. Navy Unilever Research U.S. United Technologies Corp. W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc.Xerox Corporation __________________XonTech, Incorporated

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yylv
Crime and Incident Report
-¡a.
icIkdHamMt.brramHeuar•*»
CMDS, from page 'l
¿lander Cafe and Morewood ¿Court; but not at Scotland Yard, a non-Dining Service ^restaurant. CampusXpress V.can be used at all campus P stores and eating facilities.£>* Sallyann Kluz, a junior ar­chitecture major, gives her 
f feelings on the issue. “I think
• the whole system is pretty• bad; it’s too complicated. I just v:use CampusXpress,” said CKluz.When asked why CMDS . offers a meal plan instead of ^letting students use Cam- ; pusXpress for all purchases,; food or non-food, Heydt said ¡ that it had to do withconve-• nience, “With a meal plan stu- '. dents know where their 1' money is going.”Some students are pleased with the changes Dining Ser- ; vice has made.MCS sophomore Eric 
Meyhofer thinks it is now “10 f times better than last year, no time periods.” But others are not as impressed. As -graphics communications sophomore Deena Grinbaum £aid, “It’s a waste of money.^ The food sucks: no variety, very greasy.” And still more are ambivalent, “High­lander’s worse, nothing but rice and pasta,” said materi­als science sophomore Chris Lewis. He then said, “The 1 meal plans are better. It still rips you off, blit not as much.”; Other complaints include:: the quality of food served; that 
I food often sits around for too long before it is purchased,' and that if the full allowance of $4.90 is not spent on a meal ; ; (with the Block Meal plans), that money is lost. Often, stu-• dents feel that they are pay­ing for more than what they- actually get in return from ; CMDS.
r As the semester progresses, CMDS has promised to try to accomodate the wishes of the students who depend on the• servicefortheirmeals. Start­ling next Wednesday, there "will be an “introductory week”1 at Morewood Court, featur­ing events designed to famil­iarize students with the new| facility.| Heydt says that plans for ¡ the future of CMDS will de­fend on what students want.
r'SKl.I. FUNDRAISING CANDY 
'.LOWEST PRJC1ÌS-NO R1SK-TOI• 
ÜÌTRANDS.REESE, MJiM, HERSHEY,
.ANO MORE.-----
CALI. I-OR DETAILS & 1IROCHURE
McKeesport candy co 
673-4406
ACTIVISTS
PART TIME FIELDWORK
V87, Is 4Cs47C ae rlngue 8iM 
U vCI ItCy .iPs7PCM .i 4CI.I.si 
b.vi.ivh 7CIIC2 12.I.ivh C7CSI.sibh 
8iM p9iMU28.b.ivA L8,C 8 
z /M.ppC2CiSC .i CiP.2siyCiI87 
a 4s7.I.SbA os92b TUGf 4yA 
dDTU5fT5 mb, ps2 Kaue
*EARN EXTRA INCOME*
: Earn $200-$500 weekly 
mailing travel brochures. For 
' information send a stamped 
addressed envelope to: 
Travel INC., P.O. Box 2530, 
Miami, FI 33161
Ploying with
* tven if you don't play an 
- instruments, you can help fill Heinz 
Hall! We have limited openings for 
our exciting subscription campaign. 
» If you are outgoing and articulate, 
we will teach you a skill that will 
last a lifetime. Have fun and cam 
. UP to $20/hr plus SSS bonuses and 
. complimentary tickets! PT day or 
eve. Parking.Call Pat DeLuna 
392-3311
9/11 INDECENT EXPO­
SURE, 4 pm. Campus Police were notified that two female stu­dents had been the victims of indecent exposure. The victims were in front of Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall, and saw a man standing at a second floor window. He dropped his pants and exposed himself to the vic­tims. The offender was described as approximately 30 years of age, 5'7", thin, with curly light brown hair. A check of the building and the area proved negative.
9/11 ASSAULT, 9:45 pm. A female student reported that, while she was walking on Morewood Avenue in front of E- Tower, she was struck on the back of the neck with a peach. The fruit had been thrown from an unknown window in E-Tower. The victim stated that she did not require medical attention.
9/12 MEDICAL ESCORT, 3:48 am. Campus Police re­sponded to a call that there was an intoxicated student with pos­sible alcohol poisoning sitting in the hallway on the fourth floor of Morewood Gardens. The respond­
ing officers found the student with his head in a garbage bag. They were advised that the student had had about 32 mixed drinks. He was taken to Presbyterian Hospital.
9/13 ASSAULT, 12:36 am. A female student reported that she and her roommates were aggres­sively shoved by an unidentified man while dancing in the base­ment of a fraternity. While laugh­ing, the victim jokingly shoved him back. The man pushed the
victim to the floor, grabbed her by her T-shirt and dragged her up ^jthe stairs, exposing the victim’s chest. As the victim was dragged, she was called a bitch and a whore. As he reached the top of the stairs, the man was restrained by a brother and told to let her go. The victim’s injuries consisted of a slightly swollen right little finger and a bruised biceps. She refused medical at­tention at the time.
9/13 MEDICAL ESCORT, 1:29 am. Campus Police received a call stating that a female stu­dent had just injured her head and was in need of medical atten­tion. The responding officers found the victim conscious and alert, but still somewhat groggy. A fraternity brother told the of­ficers that the victim was in the process of climbing on a pool table when she accidentally struck the back of her head on a section of low ceiling. She was unconscious for a brief period and was taken to a first floor couch. The officers were informed that the victim had been drinking, but was not intoxicated. She suffered a golf ball-size lump on the back of her head and was transported to Pres­byterian Hospital.
9/13 HAZARD, 2:00 am. Cam­pus Police were notified that person(s) unknown were throw­ing items from windows on the Forbes Avenue side of Morewood E-Tower. Officers responded, finding what appeared to be a ceramic ashtray, light bulbs, and bottles on the sidewalk in front of E-Tower. It was noted that sev­eral residents had removed their
security screens, and therefore, reporting officers were not able to determine from which room the objects were thrown. The area coordinator said that a meeting would take place regarding screen removal.
9/14 POSSIBLE HAZING, 11:20 pm. A Campus Police of­ficer driving on Morewood Av­enue between Mudge and More­wood Gardens observed approxi­
mately 10 males around a tele­phone pole across from a frater­nity. She also saw water being thrown at that location. As she slowed down, the men ceased what they were doing and ran into the fraternity house. It is a tradition at this house to hang pledges from this pole and throw water on them. This activity was not confirmed.
9/16 MEDICAL CALL, 10:47
pm. Officers responded to a call that a female student, while in her room in Henderson, jumped from her loft to answer the tele­phone, falling six feet, striking her head on a file cabinet. Para­medics spineboarded and trans­ported the patient to University of Pittsburgh Medical Center .
Compiled by 
BETH MACDONALD
Before us lies a new day, 
and in the distance a new world, ours to create by 
the strength of our faith.
Rodef Shalom Congregation invites all 
students to be our guests at worship services 
for the High Holy Days.
l2CP nsbt o8bt8i8
nsbt o8bt8i8 Ls2i.iv 
l2CP Hsy '.4492
Hsy '.4492
/AbC2P.SCb SsiI.i9C It2s9vts9I ItC S78RE
r7C8bC S877 s2 bIs4 NR ps2 Ssy47CyCiI82R I.S,CIb .i 8MP8iSCA 
DwGUDTDDA
RODEF SHALOM
iIVW&(W)sTIV 
1eRgM .hw cdmaqe33b )G0h.ur Pittsburgh. CMD CSCr
gC4ICyNC2 wdDc5f 4y
fcGT 4y
gC4ICyNC2 w'0f 8i.
uSIsNC2 pIDcwf 4y
6cGT 4.i
uSIsNC2 dL. 8y
) kMdmg id.mra dh '.reharr ImDthe5tgedhr
(or "Why I might consider working for W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc.") 
Chain of Lattice
Command System System
TOP TOP
Superman I I I I Structure
Still Bigger ^ ^ Bureacracy
Boss
Bigger Boss I I § | Rules
Next Boss H|1 Stagnation
Boss I ( Ì 1 Hierarchy
BOTTOM
Some businesses have a very 
structured approach to manage­
ment — some don’t. Now you 
have to decide which is right for 
you — a decision which may 
shape your future.
This company is built on the 
principles of freedom, fairness, 
commitment and good judgment. 
At Gore we work in teams 
without titles or ranks. Every­
one is an associate, communicat­
ing directly with other associ­
ates. We call this highly suc­
cessful system the Lattice. The 
Lattice and the creative vision of 
associates have taken this com­
pany from the basement of the 
founders’ home to the global 
market.
Gore teams make the highest 
quality electronic, medical, 
industrial and fabric products— 
from GORE-TEX® fabric in 
sportswear to GORE-TEX® 
cardiovascular patches. Our 
products keep blood flowing to 
hearts and information moving 
through computers. They 
protect the environment from 
contaminants and astronauts 
from the extremes of space flight.
At Gore, you’re free to pursue 
projects that make a difference, 
to explore opportunities across 
disciplines and, perhaps, to 
introduce the world to your 
dream come true—another 
revolutionary Gore product.
TOP
Look us up at the Technical 
Opportunities Conference on 
September 24 and watch for our 
on-campus interviews later this 
fall.
Creative Technologies 
Worldwide
W. L. GORE & ASSOCIATES, INC
551 Paper Mill Road 
P. O. Box 9206 
Newark, DE 19714-9206
t

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Amarewahg caMmtoeth 
P.rg udhr.bg rg.wahgr
On July 10, University Presi­
dent Mehrabian acted upon the 
recommendation of the Human 
Relations Commission (HRC) to 
change CMU’s Statement of As­
surance to include a phrase ad­
dressing the Department of 
Defense’s (DoD) policy on gays, lesbians, and bisexuals in the 
military and the enforcement of this policy in ROTC.
Despite the fact that the Stu­dent Handbook states that the 
appropriate committees of Stu­dent Senate as well as Student 
Senate as a whole should be 
among those consulted before a 
change to the Handbook is made, 
Mehrabian did not consult Stu­
dent Senate or any of its com­
mittees before making the change.
Though the Handbook also 
says that Mehrabian may make 
changes without consulting Sen­
ate when the University is not 
in session, several members of 
the Executive Committee of Stu­dent Senate (ExComm), who 
have the power to act in place of 
Senate, were present on campus 
during the summer, and were 
not consulted. Moreover, even 
since Senate has reconvened, 
there has been no official notifi­
cation of the change from 
Mehrabian. Nor has he made an 
official announcement to the 
campus community regarding 
the change.
The change states that on-cam- 
pus ROTC classes are available 
to all students on CMU regard­
less of their sexual orientation, 
despite the government’s policy 
which excludes gays, lesbians, 
and bisexuals from military ser­
vice.
It is true that Warner Hall 
was under pressure to meet 
printing deadlines for the Stu­
dent Handbook and to simulta­
neously act on the HRC’s rec­
ommendation concerning the 
statement. However, Meh­
rabian did not notify Student 
Senate, did not attempt to con­
tact Senators, and made no ef­fort to publicize the change be­
sides its appearance in the Stu­
dent Handbook and a small item 
in the 81/2x11 News in mid­
summer when few students 
were here to see it. This lack of 
action is reprehensible.
Student Senator Michael 
Tomblyn (MCS) introduced a 
resolution in the September 8 
Senate meeting condemning 
Mehrabian’s actions with re­
gard to the Statement of Assur­
ance. We support this resolu­
tion and disagree with those 
Senators who believe the lan­
guage of the resolution is too harsh.
This issue is serious, and Sen­
ate needs to notify Mehrabian 
in no uncertain terms that what 
he has done is unacceptable. 
The administration has an ob­
ligation to consult students 
through their representatives 
in Senate before making a 
change in University policy. 
This is especially true in the 
case of the Statement of Assur­
ance, which affects every mem­ber of the campus community.
Tomblyn’s resolution is cur­
rently in committee, and we 
urge Student Senate to bring it 
back out and pass it as origi­
nally written to take a stand on 
the administration’s apathy 
toward student concerns.nheHamregp 1maa sePa 
rMd.bwhBg oa Hedbtgaw
Extracurricular activities are 
an important part of the Univer­
sity experience. The adminis­
tration strongly encourages in­
volvement on the part of stu­
dents in areas outside the class­
room, from participation in stu­
dent organizations to attendance 
at the International Festival. 
Accordingly, the University has 
a policy of University Free Time.
“Monday through Friday from 
4:30-6:30 pm will be reserved 
for University-wide events — 
academic or otherwise. This will be considered open time for 
scheduling events and classes 
will notbe arranged for this time” 
(Student Handbook 1992-93, 
page 19). Students have a right 
to a period of time each day free 
of academic commitments so 
that they may participate in 
other aspects of the community, 
or even just take a break from a 
hcctic schedule and eat dinner 
without rushing.
Unfortunately, some adminis­
trators, departments, and pro­
fessors do not see the impor­
tance of University Free Time. 
While classes are not officially 
scheduled between 4:30 and 6:30 
pm, some professors have the 
nasty habit of either changing 
the class time to suit themselves, 
running past the end of classes 
scheduled until 4:20 pm, or 
scheduling exams or review ses-
Letters to the Editor
Books are bookstore’s 
primary purpose, not CDs
on
sions in those two hours. The 
impression this leaves on many 
students is that the professor 
either doesn’t realize or just 
doesn’t care that students have 
activities and responsibilities 
outside the classroom.
Therefore, we feel that the 
importance of University Free 
Time needs to be emphasized 
to all those at CMU, and that 
the policy must be enforced. 
Departments should strongly discourage professors and in­
structors from moving class times on a whim. Departments 
and the registrar should refuse 
to assign rooms to be used dur­
ing Free Time. Students must 
also do their part. If a professor 
moves a class to Free Time, or 
refuses to acknowledge Univer­
sity Free Time, report him or 
her directly to the department 
or the Office of the Registrar. If 
this doesn’t help, go to the Of­
fice of Student Affairs.
Four or five years spent in a 
classroom or a lab will not pro­duce the kind of graduate for 
which CMU is so famous. Uni­
versity Free Time exists in or­
der to allow students to become 
well-rounded, intellectually 
and socially active members of 
their communities. For this rea­
son, we want to see the Free 
Time policy enforced so all stu­
dents can take advantage of it.
Editor:The previously mar­ginal service available 
attheCMUBookstore Letter tO has sunk to an unac- evi r-. ceptable level the Editor
A book I needed for the second semes­ter of a two course sequence was marked “not in yet” on the shelf. I asked the staff at the book desk about this daily through­out the first week of classes. They told me to check back tomorrow afternoon. Finally on Friday I was given an assign­ment in that class. Since it was the second semester of a two course sequence most of the students already had the book, but a few including myself did not. After accusing the publisher of being slow and the department for ordering late they finally sent someone to look for the book. The publisher was Wiley Sci­entific, who in my experience has been very prompt with its orders, and the department ordered the book in May. They found the books. Apparently the books had been in for some time and someone had failed to remove the “not in yet” sticker and bring them out.I don’t mind if the Bookstore makes extra money by selling overpriced CDs and miscellaneous other items, but its primary purpose is to provide the stu­dents with the textbooks and materials they need for their classes. If the book­store cannot do this properly then it should seriously reconsider its decision to take on more responsibilities.
Wayne Martin
Senior, Electrical Engineering
Eirene challenges cover­
age of protest issues
on
Caegam gd bMt (wegdmEditor:This letter to the editor is in response to Kendrick Chua’s article entitled [“Peace activists march on Warner Hall,” 9/14].Although it greatly pains us to act as “historical revisionists”, we feel obligated to respond to Chua’s fictional account of
Letter to 
the Editor
our demonstration on your campus. While Chua does not take issue with the fact that the U.S. government funds research at CMU, he questions that such funding is for military purposes. To us, his questioning is a convenient and dan­gerous departure from the facts. The 
Pittsburgh Business Times article, which we distributed during our demonstra­tion, clearly documented research fund­ing carried on at CMU on behalf of the Department of Defense, the Air Force, the Navy, the Army, and the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), totaling over $230 Million. Not only does CMU not deny this fact, but CMU along with Pitt were the sources of the information contained in the ar­ticle. In fact, a 1971 act of Congress prohibits the Department of Defense from funding research which lacks a direct military application.Statements made at the protest, not­ing CMU’s direct involvement in the development of computerized weapon systems used by American forces in Iraq, were brushed off in the article as mere allegations. This direct involvement is fact documented in The Tartan and in 
Focus Magazine (documentation of CMU’s military research can be obtained from us upon request).That a university, an institution of higher education, would be involved in the research and development of several weapon systems, and proudly partici­pate in a war that dropped more bombs in 43 days that we did in ten years in Vietnam, is morally unacceptable. The suffering of the Iraqi people is unseen and continues, with, by UNICEF esti­mates, over 750 Iraqi children under the age of five dying each day from contin­ued United Nations sanctions. We are obligated to protest with every means available within the realm of non-vio- lence.Furthermore, military research on a college campus has unparalleled seduc­tive power for drawing the young into the base values of modem warfare, as opposed to the higher values of saving and enhancing human life and of caring for our Earth.
Vincent Scotti Eirene 
Glenn Grodin 
Pittsburgh, PA
Letter to 
the Editor“
Staff member disagrees 
with political columnist
Editor:Last week, R. D. Quinn wrote [“Strong ideol­ogy needed for presi­dential elections,”9/14]. Unfortunately, he failed to take into account that any"* ideology must be viewed within the con­text of reality. The general Republican ideology which Quinn finds so valuable has little application in the current presi­dential election. Under the Bush admin­istration, the government has actually gotten bigger, and this can’t be blamed on “the Democratic Congress” (a cheaj? political shot which Quinn has fallen, for), because Bush has been vetoing corii^ gressional bills left and right, but chose not to veto ones that increased the gov­ernment size. The only reasonable con-£ elusions are that the Republican ideol-^ ogy doesn’t work (using the past 12 years, 'j as an example), or that Bush doesn’t};, represent this Republican ideology.This next presidential election is fa crucial time for those with strong Repub-. ;r lican ideals. The latest Republican plat-*;, form shows that the religious fundamen­talists are trying to extend government;' control to force a single restricted set of religious morals upon all U.S. citizens. * This violates the basic Republican tene.t,-, of small government and individual libr,j( erty. Anyone with a strong Republican/'! ideology should vote against Bush thi6 year, to force their party back to its basics principles and away from religious spe-A cial interest groups.While Quinn does a reasonable job of;; explaining Republican ideology, he com^- pletely misrepresents Democratic ideoUt, ogy. The basic Democratic ideology ism that if all citizens have their basic needs.,, met, they will work and consume prod-?... ucts of industry, and this will bring about-- a healthy economy. I personally find both 'j theories overly idealistic and believe some^ form of compromise would be best for th$ , country, but when I apply my ideals of. economics, human rights, and liberty to2 this election, the Democratic Party is th&t! only choice I have.
Chris Newman
Staff Member, Computing ServiceskPdfamr2 thgeOrPdfamr Dd gdd Rtm
____________Thhrewastt
Good old Carnegie Mellon. It’s not a phrase often seen or heard around here, particu­larly coming from me, but I have to give credit where credit is due. Just as I was becoming pleasantly bored with the conspicuous absence of controversy (real or imag­ined) on campus, along came an issue too juicy to ignore. Last week’s Student Senate meeting witnessed a proposal regarding smoking on cam­pus; Senator Josh Knauer issued a plan that, if passed,
would basically ban smoking in dormitories, academic buildings, and dining areas. The penalty for violating the provisions would be a $50 fine and 40 lashes with an organi­cally-grown zucchini.Just kidding about the zuc­chini, folks. The issue is in fact a serious one that affects ev­eryone in the CMU commu­nity. Frankly, when one pauses to consider the com­pelling scientific evidence that smoking causes more human pain and suffering than H&SS’s required computer programming course, the pro­posed limitations on doing it near others seem like a pretty good idea. Some students, how­ever, question the strict na­ture of the rules — particu-
larly the ban on smoking in dorm singles and within cam­pus buildings even when no­body present objects to it. Aside from being difficult to enforce in such situations, protesters maintain that these rules have a fascist nature — at least from a smoker’s point of view.Somehow, I doubt that these same students would support a dioxin-dumping manufac­turer that cries foul after be­ing told to clean up its act. Unless Dan Quayle’s Council on Competitiveness gets in­volved, such a business would probably have to do something to lessen the environmental impact of its actions. Smok­ers, as well, must realize their habit’s deadly effect on the university population’s envi-
ronment and accept stricter ‘ limitations on their behavior. The question — how strict is- 
too strict? — is at issue, noJ£, only for CMU or college cam;-;, puses, but for public and priR';j vate institutions in general. KiV.On one side of the brouhaha-n are the “smokers with a cause*”'., who band together into groups''+ dedicated to preserving-^ “smokers’ rights.” Somehow have a hard time accepting^; smokers as some kind of helft-,; j less, persecuted sect. If thrift» right to light up in an indoor public place harms others, itd can’t be anything but wrong-.*-' Yet the fact remains that to-f~ bacco is a legal drug. People dpj^ have the right to make thp decision, however unwise its 
Please see PRESERVING, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yylK
FEtm dh ’m.DrB matbbp qtm dh meDMgr
mgisc nubP
Rod Serling voice: Imagine if you will: A country where the privacy of one’s home is not sa­cred. Where the government leg­islates its enforcement arm to listen to your communications without justifiable cause, and mandates that you must build in the ability for it to do so. A nation where the police may seize prop­erty allegedly connected with wrongdoing but, when no crime is proven, the property is not re­turned.This nation does not exist in the fanciful mind of the Twilight 
Zone. It is the United States, and these outrages are all justified in the name of the “War on Drugs.”Consider the Fourth Amend­ment. The text of it reads “The 
right of the people to he secure in 
their persons, houses, papers and 
effects, against unreasonable 
searches and seizures, shall not 
be violated.” This amendment was in direct response to the Brit­ish soldiers’ searching and seiz­ing materials from the colonists’ hqmes. The founding fathers felt it ¡was outrageous that due pro­cess was not followed when searching for alleged criminals (rebels), and sought to ensure that
it would never happen again.Yet it is happening again. There are examples of police breaking down doors to search for drugs, often on the weakest of excuses. There are examples of officers who obtain warrants to search for drugs and burst into the pre­mises, and when informed that they are in the wrong place they search anyway, often severely damaging the residents’ property in the process.This is a clear violation of the Fourth Amendment, yet few people even know of this funda­mental right. There are numer­ous similar incidents, yet no fed­eral or state agency keeps statis­tics on these violations.And don’t think that your com­munications are safe. Currently before the Congress is a bill en­dorsed by the FBI and NSA (Na­tional Security Agency). The gist of this bill is to mandate that any communications that are en­crypted must use a “weak” method to allow these systems to be monitored for drug deals in the making. It also states that a remote monitoring capability must be built in to the system, with the additional condition that there be no indication to the us­ers of the system that they are being monitored.And this is not limited to elec­tronics systems, but applies to telephone networks as well. It is currently legal for police to listen in to cordless telephone trans-
missions without a warrant, and this unwarranted monitoringcan be used in court.Not only does this put free speech at risk, where anyone who sends email could be arrested without any due process, but it places American companies at risk as well. With a built-in espio-
And who defines suspicious? The ones doing the searching.Under the current seizure laws, all property of the suspect is for­feit — yet in the vast majority of cases where no guilt is estab­lished, said property is not re­turned. In fact, the now-cleared suspect must file suit against the
Under the current seizure laws, all 
property of the suspect is forfeit L 
yet in the vast majority of cases 
where no guilt is established, said 
property is not returned.
nage system, how long will it take enterprising foreign companies to break into this system, take advantage of the mandated weak protections, and steal sensitive corporate information? What will happen to American software companies whose programs will not sell overseas because their products are inferior by our government’s mandate?What of civil seizures, the best thing to happen to a governmen­tal treasury since the Inquisi­tion? Since all drug crimes are civil, not criminal, no charges need be filed in order to arrest a suspect. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that all that is neces­sary for the police to search a person is “suspicious behavior.”
government for the return of his/ her property, and must also meet certain requirements to be eli­
gible to sue.Seizures are not limited to the crimes alleged. Consider the re­cent case in Florida of some Hai­tian immigrants who were driv­ing to Miami. They had approxi­mately $20,000 in cash which they said they were going to bring to Haiti to help their families. Despite a total lack of evidence pointing towards any drug-re­lated activities, their money was seized and never returned. Their crime? Speeding.Millions of dollars have been generated from these seizures, and this should raise the ques­tion: Where does the money go?
For the most part it goes back into the drug war, making it into a self-feeding monster. But there have been cases of law enforce­ment officials lining their pock­ets with bribes from dealers, of dealing themselves, and of skim­ming the profits from the sei­zures.Recently, the DEA (Drug En­forcement Agency) asked some hardware stores for their sales records of customers who bought indoor plant lights — an effort to catch home-growers. The very fact that they were brazen enough to do so is an indication of how cal­lous the government has become towards our rights. Our own Drug Czar, William Bennett, was quoted on the Larry King show (June 15,1989) as stating “Mor­ally, I don’t have any trouble with [beheading drug dealers].”America is not a piece of silver which can have the impurities beaten out by force. The only thing that makes America “the land of the free” is our commitment to our ideals and freedoms. When you remove the “sacredness of our freedoms,” we become com­parable to Nazi Germany in our quest to “purify” ourselves.To paraphrase Benjamin Franklin: Those who value safety 
over liberty deserve neither.
David Hunt is a mechanical 
engineering graduate student who 
is frightened of what his country 
is becoming.
'War on Drugs’ vital to nation’s future
odtt,dr oy MgfsfPg
Some people question the wisdom of the “War on Drugs,” but others go still further and question the wisdom of criminalizing the drug trade in the first place. Before you start believing that decriminalization is a valid policy option, consider its potential effects on the eco­nomic health and psychological stability of the country.Our countiy is facinga huge problem in trying to provide work for displaced em­ployees of defense-related industries. We must either create jobs for them and retrain them, or convert their existing jobs to non-military applications. Nei­ther is an easy task.¦Given this problem, and given the cur­rent stagnant economy, would you want to' create another employment mess? We could potentially create several messes by decriminalizing drugs.For inner-city youths in particular, trade in illegal drugs not only provides entry-level employment; it also promises upward mobility and rich rewards for dedicated service. In some areas, youths can join gangs, where they learn about business strategy, money management, and the importance of teamwork. They are continually inspired by the status
and wealth of local drug lords. They are continually challenged by law enforcement officers to do better — to maintain the competitive edge that keeps the best deal­ers out of jail. The youths also get basic instruction in the use of firearms, because such training is becoming vital to the trade.
that the recent enormous increase in drug- related arrests has led to serious over­crowding in our prisons. Now that we don’t have enough prison space, we need to build more.New prisons mean new construction. More prisons mean more guards, more
--- the trade in illegal drugs not only provides 
entry-level employment; it also promises 
upward mobility and rich rewards for dedicated 
service. In some areas, youths can join gangs, 
where they learn about business strategy, 
money management, and the importance of 
teamwork.
If we decriminalize drugs, where will these people turn? Without the enormous potential profits in contraband trade, the whole reason for the drug trade’s exist­ence will be gone. When these promising jobs go away, where will people find hope?The government really can’t afford to spend any money building alternative eco­nomic footholds, especially because it hasn’t had much success in the past. Busi­nesses might be skeptical about employ­ing former drug dealers, regardless of their obvious business savvy. The illegal drug trade network offers outstanding opportu­nities. Why take them away?Even those who fail in the drug trade help our economy. You’ve certainly read
wardens. Prisons need to buy supplies, and these purchases stimulate the econo­mies of their surrounding areas.If we decriminalize drugs, we wouldn’t need new prison space. The U.S. prison system cost $20,296 per prisoner last year, so when we miss the chance to put some­one away, we‘re missing the opportunity to put $20,296 to good use. Taxpayers are a lot happier seeing money spent to pre­serve order than to perform social engi­neering. When we imprison a drug dealer, we make people feel more secure, and we create jobs.What about drug enforcement agents employed by our government? They’re trained to storm crack houses, fly drug-
spottinghelicopters, battle drug lords, and perform all sorts of other action-packed duties. They also have a lot more fun than ordinary law enforcement agents, because they don’t have to worry too much about adhering to Constitutional restraints.If we were to decriminalize drugs, what would these people do? Are there enough other crimes, like murders and rapes and thefts, to keep them busy? We certainly don’t want to have to create extra work in the crime-solving area. Even assuming that there is enough work, we must still ask if drug-enforcement agents can be retrained without serious consequences. How demoralizing would it be for them to give up commando status and submit to restrictions on search and seizure? Would they become psychologically unstable?We certainly don't need more psycho­logical instability in our country. After all, each of us is constantly fighting latent drug mania. I know that I’d be shooting smack and smoking crack and eating hash brownies all the time if I could buy drugs legally. Wouldn’t you? If not for stiff laws against drug use, I’d be lying in a gutter somewhere, completely wasted out of my mind. I suspect that lots of other people would be, too.The last thing this country needs is more drug-crazed citizens, aimless inner- city dwellers, and unbalanced ex-DEA people. That’s what we’d get if we decrimi­nalized drugs. Let’s keep the War on Drugs alive. Our nation’s future depends on it.
Jeff Basista is a graduate student in 
English.
Peace process deadlocked in Middle East
Da,sfPsgb Ly SdfPstl
Keeping up with the peace pro­cess in the Middle East resembles attempting to stay current on who said what during the presiden­tial campaign. It seems as though statements and predictions con­tradict themselves every hour. First Israeli negotiators say this, then they say that. Meanwhile, Syrian delegates present us with a picture of satisfaction at the latest deal proposed, but then they caution that it wasn’t enough.
When it appeared as though Israel and Syria were about to begin hammering out some type of process for negotiations and peace, Israel suddenly said that it would not withdraw from the Golan Heights until Syria explic­
itly stated the type of peace it would exchange for withdrawal. With a loud, unexpected, grind- ing“k-thunk,” it all stopped. Why?Much of the problem lies with the link between the Golan Heights, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and the Palestinians. Syria plays the part of “big brother” for the Palestinians, giving them implicit representation when they other­wise would have none. If a sepa­rate deal between Israel and Syria, one that did not mention the state of the Palestinians, was struck, Palestinians would be at a severe disadvantage in relation to Israel. At best, they could hope only for partial self-rule instead of an actual homeland.On the other hand, if Syria could maneuver Israel into a po­sition in which they had to enter serious talks with the Palestin­ians, the PLO could then demand that UN Resolution 242 (the one that says land should be traded for peace) applies to the Gaza
Strip and the West Bank. Pres­suring Israel for the return of these territories would present a more attractive option than that of the Golan Heights since they are not important strategic posi­tions. Although the problem of
during the Six Day War. Giving up the territory for a vague peace agreement would leave Israel at a great disadvantage.A definite plan from Syria would also enable Israel to ana­lyze the potential risk involved.
--- a recent survey showed that a 
good portion of Israelis are opposed 
to even a partial return of the Golan 
Heights for peace.
the settlements exists, Israel would be dealing with an issue for which they have already re­ceived criticism from the United States and other nations.Of course, Israel has reason to demand a written peace plan from Syria. Syrian artillery used the strategic advantage of the Golan Heights to shell Israeli settle­ments until they were captured
In order to separate the Palestin­ian issue from peace negotiations, Israel prefers to deal directly with Syria, as it did with Egypt in 1979. Such an arrangement has several advantages.If some type of peace agree­ment were reached between Is­rael and all the Arab states, any tension between one country and Israel could easily spill over into
the others. With separate peace plans, it would be difficult for another Arab country to get in­volved in a crisis without losing some political advantage. Even though tensions have run high at times, Egypt and Israel have maintained relatively stable re­lationships.Naturally, dealing directly with Syria allows Israel to handle the Palestinians on terms beneficial to the Israelis. Unfortunately for Israel, several groups are not go­ing to allow this to happen.Four Palestinian groups have already stated that the PLO should oppose any type of agree­ment concerning the issue of self- rule. In short, they are calling for negotiations that would lead to the return of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank and the establish­ment of a Palestinian homeland.On the other side of the issue, a recent survey showed that a good portion of Israelis are opposed to 
Please see U.S., page 9
THE TARTAN
Cnmoglo Motion's Student Nowspapor 
Slnco 1906
Editor-In-Chief................Heldl Hoovor
Managing Editor...........M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr...........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor...........Brendan M°Feoly
Forum Editor................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor.....................Josh Under
Features Editor...............Megan Dietz
Diversions Editor............Marnl Borek
Calendar Editor........Tara M. Seman
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor............................Daniel Frey
Photo Editor.................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr.................Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager..........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr.............Chad M'Danlel
Asst. News Editor ....Kendrick Chua
Asst. Forum Ed......Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed. ...Andy Glendlnnlng
Asst Features Editor.....Laura Palanker
AssL Art Editors.........Samuel Greenfield
Barbara Reyes
Asst Production Mgrs........Katie Swango
Derek Wahlla 
Darkroom Manager ..Cesar Sanchez
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstader, D.A. 
Henderson, Ellon Hendrickson, Mark 
Hilller, Dexter Kobayashl, Richard 
Quinn
Senior Staff 
Dave Martin, Christian Rostlfo, Mlko 
Shapiro
Staffwritors 
Nlcoio Alton, Joff Basista, Trinotto 
Chandlor, Bob Dixon, Dan Gallaghor, 
Erin Grunzko, David Hunt, Lubomlr 
KochanskylJ, Chris Maplos, Corri 
Metz, Truptl Potol, Abby Schlff, Kolly 
Sterling, Jason Wyso, Losllo Zubaty
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Ramsoy Hong, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Matt Goldborg, Drow 
Olbrich, Elliott Schlff, Jen Thorson
Design
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Diane 
Keen, Seth Redmore
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo
Production 
Tony deFigio, Michael Gibson, Otis 
Greene, Drew Shefman
Copy
Erin Bailey, Molly Dalklewicz, Lenna 
Kydes, Patricia Williams
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Roshnl Bhakta, Chris* 
tian Borle, Kuo Chiang, Eric Davis, 
Bobbie Doffiemyer, Nathan Dohm, 
Becky Elroy, Keegan Folk, Andrea 
Francionl, MadhavGhanta, Marybeth 
Griffin, Karen Grunberg, Kerry Hagan, 
Cheryl Harris, Michael Harris, Reid 
Hecker, Lauren Heinz, Mike Hofsass, 
Arun Jayakumar, Yerln Kay, Mike 
Keating, Ellen Lalumere, Meron 
Langsner, Sung Lee, Monica Leeke, 
Nina Liang, Anne Lopez, Beth 
MacDonald, Jackie Maher, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Tanya Maynlgo, Catherine 
Marquis, Declan M'Cullagh, Declan 
M'Cullagh, Laura M'Clure, Amy 
McGovern, Mac Mirchandanl, Jenifer 
Mulé, Dizzy Murphy, Mary O’Malley, 
Frank Michels, Michael Peck, Paul 
Platosh, Tonya Rado, Olivia Raharja, 
Melissa Reaves, Syd Rodriguez, Ben 
Shelton, Ed Slavlshak, Jon Slonk, 
Andrew Sproule, Steph Stine, Jon 
Stevenson, Eric Strauss, Jason 
Togyer, llir Toska, Jen llreo, Andy 
Vaughan, Usa Vltalbo, Mike Wolker, 
Gary Wilson
Tho Tartan Is the student nowspapor of Carneglo 
Mellon Unlvorsity. It lo a woekly nowspapor pub­
lished by students during tho fall and spring Volumoe 
ters, at no cost to members of tho University 
community. It 16 printed by Wostcrn Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions ore available for tho 
semester or academic year. Tho editorial# appear­
ing at tho beginning of tho opinion scctlon aro tho 
official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Col­
umn« and political cartoon* aro tho opinions of 
Individual croators. Tho Tartan rosorvos tho right to 
reject or condense any column ol political cartoon. 
Lottors to the Editor aro opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, mombors of tho 
University community. A letter Intondod for publica­
tion must bo signed and include tho writer's addross 
and phono number for verification. Nomoa will bo 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requesto that 
letters be no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright <D 1992 by Tho Tortan. Tho Tartan edito­
rial board reserves tho right to withhold from publi­
cation any copy it deems unfit for publication.

---------------------------------------------------

S8yCv.Cmellón
THE AMAZING JOHNATHAN
Comedian
SPONSORED BY AB COFFEEHOUSE. 
FUNDED BY YOUR ACTIVITIES FEE.
Friday, September 25, 1992
9:00 pm 
SKIBO BALLROOM
As Seen On
Late Night with David Letterman, HBO's Young Comedians Special' 
MTV's Half Hour Comedy Hour, Showtime, Evening at the Improv, 
and 14 appearances on Comic Strip Live.
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT
CARNEGIE MELLON’S SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
Monday through Friday: 9 am to 5 pm and at the door 
$2 with Carnegie Mellon ID, $ 5 with any student ID, $7 public

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyly
Preserving freedom preserves self-destruction
Continued from PRESERVING, page 6may be, to smoke in private or where others are not affected by the fumes.; This is where the anti-smoking crusade, as well as the proposed policy, goes a bit too far. The fact is, most smokers are fairly rea­sonable when it comes to keeping the peace in a living arrange­ment. The majority will likely comply if a roommate objects to smoking indoors, and if he or she doesn’t, the crisis can be handled best by an RA. As for a ban on
single-room smoking, I don’t see any non-punitive reason for do­ing this; besides, enforcing it without a separate vice squad division of campus police would prove just about impossible. For these reasons it is probably wis­est to leave individuals’ private areas alone.Since the basic objection to smoking is its secondhand effect on nonsmokers, it seems like the best idea is simply to concentrate on banning smoking altogether in indoor public areas on campus
—eliminating“smokingsections’’ that when they smoke in an en- in dining halls and academic closed space they affect the health
...it is downright painful even to raa 
young men and women killing 
themselves...
buildings. Even though adopt­ing such a plan would still con­tain some of the so-called “fas­cist” elements of the original pro­posal, smokers need to recognize
and comfort of everyone around them. Protecting the well-being of their fellow students must, therefore, take precedence over smokers’ alleged “right’’ to smoke
anywhere they please.A compro­mise like the one I have described will no doubt leave less of their position on the issuo. I would ideally like to see a lot less smok­ing going on around these parts for reasons that go beyond con­cern for my own health.For those of us who have lost loved ones to lung cancer or any ofthe many fatal smoking-related diseases, it is downright painful even tosee youngmen and women slowly killing themselves — and it is tempting to try to change
people’s self-destructive behav­ior in any way we can, regnrdless of the imposition on their indi­vidual freedom of choice. Yet in the interest of preserving that freedom, a compromise that pro­tects only nonsmokers’ lives is, sadly, the best we can do.
Abby Schiff is a sophomore in 
H&SS and an admitted hypo­
chondriac. She can actually feel 
hordes ofprecancerous cells danc­
ing around in her lungs at the 
first whiff of secondhand smoke.
U.S. intervention needed in Israel
Continued from U.S., page 7
even a partial return of the Golan Heights for peace. They also feel that current Jewish settlements must remain intact. Given the ; sentiment of settlers in the other occupied territories, complete return of them to the Palestinians seems very unlikely.What, then, is anyone supposed to do? With the situation deadlocked at the time of this writing, what actions are required in order to get things back on track?Israel could agree to partial return of the Golan Heights and discussion ofthe Palestin­ian issue if Syria agrees to provide hard and
fast ideas for peace. Israel must be very careful to exclude Jordan and Lebanon. They might agree to enter separate serious talks with them at a later date. This situation might allow Israel to develop a somewhat independent agreement with Syria while guaranteeing Syria partial return of the land with the added bonus of the Palestinian issue.Yes, a great many nasty details beg atten­tion. Would “discussion” of the Palestinians automatically mean serious consideration of the application of U.N. Resolution 242? Would Jewish settlements be allowed to remain? Would peace include embassies, technical
and cultural exchanges, and other such things?This whole situation lacks only one cru­cial ingredient: Jim Baker and his team. It is indeed a shame that when people on both sides are freely acknowledging that United States intervention offers serious hope, Baker is back here at home trying to win an election for George Bush. Let us all hope that history does not remember Baker as a man who missed the chance of a lifetime.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior chemical 
engineering major.
a
Letter to the Editor 
The Tartan 
Skibo Hall 50
Letter to 
the Editor
The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and in elude the 
writer’s address and phone number for verification. 
Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan re­
quests that letters be no longer than 350 words. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
HOWARD HUGHES MEDICAL INSTITUTE PREDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS IN BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
______________1993 COMPETITION_____________
Fellowships are for full-time study toward the Ph.D. or Sc.D. 
degree in cell biology and regulation, genetics, immunology, 
neuroscience, or structural biology, as well as biostatistics, 
epidemiology, or mathematical biology.
FELLOWSHIP TERMS
• Three-year initial awards. • $14.000 annual stipend
with two-year extension • S 12,700 annual cost-of-
possible education allowance
ELIGIBILITY
* Less than one year of post- 
baccaluureaic graduate study 
in biology: 
college seniors 
first year graduate students 
M.S.. D O . I).I).S.. D.Y.M. 
students or professionals
• If an M.D./Ph.D. student: 
not in a funded program
• No citizenship requirements: 
I'.S. citizens may study 
abroad; others must study in 
the United States
• Application deadline: 
November 6. 1992
• Awards announced: 
early April 1993
SCHEDULE
• Fellowships start:
June 1993-Junuury 1994
EOH PROGRAM ANNOUNCEMENTS, ELIGIBILITY 
GUIDELINES, AND APPLICATIONS
Hughes Predoctoral Fellowships 
National Research Council Fellowship Office 
2101 Constitution Avenue 
Washington, DC 2041H 
Telephone (202)334-2H72
Tin-1 lowuril llujtln’' Mi-dical Insilimi’ wdiomrs application* from nil (|U|lllfk'd 
ouulldak-s and m'ounifti'N women and mt/mltm of minority groups to apply,
Parking • University Center • Greeks • Student Involvment • Student Senate • Athletic Facilities • Women’s Issues
liking • Politics • Funding • Football Field • Student Affairs • Constitution • Construction 
png •.Sororities • Charities * Gymnasium • Dini^^lervicp • Environment • Recycling
[ Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedj 
j • Grant's Sex Life • Ishtar II 
^fied Research • DC-lOs • Howdy'c
Enrollment • Student Healtl 
Overcrowding • Contras 
Exercise • Congress • Middli 
Woody Allen • The Muppe 
Hair • Mousse • Human Reis 
Volume • Bill's Hair • Fundi
Service • Environment • HoS8pP»,flWpPfrg'^®^rss^BPWWIaSIBBISEK?^MPr8ifl^Sex • Geeks • Alcohol • Gaj 
Rights • Drugs • Budget • Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy • The Flag • Woody Allen • Funding • Student Affairs • Mayoi 
Construction • Track Field • Overcrowding • Constitution • Activities Board • Gymnasium • Housing • Sororities • Charitief 
Dining Service • Environment • Recycling • Congress • Club Sports • Middle East • Weather • Advising • Crime • Sex 
the Light Table* Geeks • Corruption • Violence • Alcohol • Drugs • Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy • Woody Allen • Funding
^^krorities • Charities • DiningplFr
< o
IO
Sc z­ 
, =
KU IO 
= & rNN 
in ii 
i XÍo ’S¦— o
Answers to Life From 
a Living Master 
&Five Years with a ¦ i Zen Master. - '
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 24 
7:30 pm THAW HALL 102 University of Pittsburgh
For information call 343-1907
Sponsored by The Self Knowledge Symposium.
u
"T
$3.99 Large
Plain Pizza j
Everyday with coupon | 
Pick-up only j
$2.00 off IAny Large Gourmet Pizza '
Pick-up or Delivery ,
$5.99 Large
Plain Pizza
Everyday with coupon 
Delivery or Pick-up
$1.50 offAny Two Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up |
$1.50 offany Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-upI
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
Large Plain +1/2 Italian Hoagie & 2 Cokes
S9.95 plus tax 
____Delivery___
Buy one Pizza get the same size | Pizza FREE i
2 MedPizzas + 1 topping on each for $10.50
plus lax 
Delivery or Pick-up
•“I'Hawaiian Pizza
Special
$8.95 plus tax 
Delivery
¦n
s"i"
Toppings Extra 
Pick-up only
Sin White Pizza I & Tossed Salad I
Only $4.99 I
I Delivery or Pick-up
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
I--Please mention coupons upon ordering.
All coupons expire May 15,1992. 
Coupons not valid with any other offer. 
Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
G6f eA -28.v gIA
Etbf Th s.gdmehD 
1tbb ,yyl
2THITSJTU NF IOURMPO ETDTSJTU CA
Octobe r5isch5 laotadobe
8 PM—11 PM
SundayChemistry
Physics
Wean Hall 5205 
Wean Hall 6423
MondayCalculusWean Hall 5403
TuesdayChemistry
Physics
Wean Hall 5205 
Wean Hall 6423
WednesdayCalculusWean Hall 5403
Walk In Tutoring is Available for Help with Entry Level Coursework.
?'NJOTF* Sessions will not be held during Mid-Semester Break and Thanksgiving Holiday.
For More Information, Contact Anne Witchner, 
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs x8704.

---------------------------------------------------

6d. fhdq2 egJ Nd mewJu.bd.^- TR , wdhFg utbb Pp 
jtmahgrF aHamp k.hwtp tg a3tugbp v o'clock, 
gMap gMeh£ T qt^ fewhtjjaw op tgahe2 dm 
kdPagMehD- )hpqtp2 dha k.hwtp mha and 
Mtmf2 qa wauewa ¿d tike-off thw uMaufd.g 
gMa iegp- ~d HNaFma MthDHhN d.g thw T look tg 
mmGp qtguM- v o'clocK- )bmeDMg2 ^d Pp itbbehD 
card thw T Matw wdqh gd gMa local pool MtJJ-
8qMeuM T Mtjjah gd fhdq Mt^ t j6pjgtha­ 
)hw T gabb gMa Rdbfr gMa ctmgeth^ vahw
SeMaem oa^RJ
r g o matter where you happen to be, the AT&T 
Calling Card can take you home.
It’s also the least expensive way to call 
state-to-state on AT&T, when you can’t dial direct. With 
the new AT&T Call and Save Plan, you’ll get special discounts 
on AT&T Calling Card calls? And once you have your card,
Calling Card
AA BAAAAAAAA
»Sw*••
ttn-Ìv-Ì-8-ÌÓ 000 6K80 Î N0v
you’ll never need to apply for another.
If you get your Calling Card now, your first call will 
be free?* And you’ll become a member of AT&T Student 
Saver Plus, a program of products and services that 
saves students time and money.
All of which makes the AT&T Calling Card out of this world.
so Dag th )££s itbbehD itmw Rdm dRROutPj.r utbbehD2 utbb ,800 6v4O04K, (3g- 8v0-
ne 13 U»T LD Cmitrar pqumlcnt » ¡1 mi« wetbaw2 mt.g gd md.e he|Reg »eHe quehHb tebehD o.de dh Pd uRbudgHm 6J8JJ, eo. t.n je P-)s&s

---------------------------------------------------

PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
Skaters 
thrash 
campus
It’s morning, and in my bleary-eyed sleep daze, I cross Forbes Avenue, nodding vaguely to passersby. I’m not really awake, and at this point in the morning I haven’t quite regained my ability to verbalize yet. Staring dumbly at the cracks in the pavement, I stumble down the sidewalk to Baker Hall.Out of nowhere, my muddy brain detects a strange rum­bling noise. Some kind of new Physical Plant torture device? Perhaps its some Robotics experiment gone horribly awry. The truth, however, is less fantastic but equally as intrigu­ing.As the rumbling noise ap­proaches, I hear muffled cries, desperate pleas for help, and abject curses, and as I look over my shoulder, I am confronted by a blazing wheeled demon.He rides his skateboard as if it were an extension of his feet. Wild-eyed, he zigzags amongst the students much like myself trying to get to our first class, clad in fantastic garb, cun­ningly woven, of a sort I know not what.They can be spotted all around campus, zipping around the sidewalks to class, or just “thrashing” on the curbs in the Skibo Parking lot. Skaters have formed a sport that evolved into a lifestyle, equipped with its own lan­guage. It is a tongue that incorporates a peculiar dialect stemming from the Southern California Surfing Dialect.The skateboard, or “stick,” has evolved into something more than a necessary aspect of the sport. It has become not only a method of transportation that the skater, affectionately called the “skate rat,” uses, but also a political billboard upon which the skater may, at his or her discretion, vent political anger in the form of the care­fully inscribed slogans and mottos that so often cover the face of the average skateboard.Skateboard art, described by ftiany, including my grand­mother, as “terrifying,” incorpo­rates fantastic dragons, ogres with dripping eyeballs, even going so far as to depict a deranged Santa Claus spread­ing so much holiday cheer in the form of a double barreled shotgun. With such iconoclastic names as Rob Roscopp and Nash, skateboard art forges new onroads to true cultural enhancement.So what is skateboarding? Is it an art or is it sport? Ask such people as the venerable “Natas” (look at that one in the mirror) and Bones Brigade, and they will tell you that it most defi­nitely is a sport. I don’t know either way, but as the sun sets on our Pittsburgh skyline, I’m reminded of a California Kelly quote. “It’s not who you are, it’s what you wear. I mean, who really cares who you are, anyway?”
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
Paul Platosh is a sophomore 
Professional and creative 
writing major.
FJtufagr rgehD stmgthr
By DAVE MARTIN .
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Saturday afternoon, the Carn­egie Mellon Tartans took the foot­ball field ranked first in the UAA, as well as fourth in the nation, and sporting an 11 game winning streak. The University of Roch­ester team opposed them ranked second in the UAA. After the game Saturday, the two teams switched roles.The Yellowjackets from Roch­ester had lost the last two years to CMU, after the formation of the UAA. After a tough battle last year, Rochester had a win in mind. After both teams showed little on offense, Rochester put their plays together first, scoring on a 14-yard run near the end of the first quarter, taking a 7-0 lead. The key plays of the drive for the Yellowjackets were two gutsy fourth-down and short yardage conversions.The Yellowj ackets took the lead into the second quarter, where the Tartans decided to shine. The Tartans began throwing a 1-2-3 punch on the ground with sopho­more Jason Grusky, and juniors Ed Ruland and Brian Horton. The Tartans drove 35 yards in 10 plays to score the tying touch­down. The key play for the Tar­tans on the drive was an 11-yard rush by Grusky on fourth down.Sparked by the score, the de­fense came alive, stuffing two rush attempts by Rochester, and then coming up with an intercep­tion. Senior Andy Helms made the interception* for the Tartans,- breaking the school record with 10 to his credit during his career. The Tartans moved the ball on another 35-yard drive, this time coming up with a field goal from senior Fred Harding to take the lead, 10-7 with 5:55 to play in the half. Rochester threatened with less than three minutes to play in the half, but senior Jason Lange blocked a 32-yard field goal at­tempt, allowing the Tartans to take their three-point lead into the locker room.The third quarter turned into a struggle between sputtering of­fenses and stingy defenses. Roch­ester took the ball away on CMLPs only turnover of the game and
turned it into a scoring posses­sion into the fourth quarter, ty­ing the ball game on a 21-yard field goal. CMU’s offense, how­ever, continued to sputter and stall. With less than 10 minutes to play in the game, Rochester attempted to kick the go-ahead field goal, but went wide with their 46-yard try. Rochester got the ball again, with good field position, and came away with what would be the game-winning touchdown on a 34-yard run. The extra-point attempt went wide, giving the Yellowjackets a 16-10 advantage.With 1:10 remaining, the Tar­tans were given a burst of life by what could be considered a poor coaching decision by Rochester. The Yellowjackets, with a six- point lead and less than two min­utes in the game, turned the ball over on downs, rather than punt­ing the ball away and burying the Tartans in bad field position. Talcing over from their own 45- yard line, the Tartans’ offense showed life for the first time since the second quarter. The undefeated sophomore quarter­back Chris Dee stiffened and led the team in its final assault. Be­hind a 21-yard pass to Ruland and a 16-yard run of his own, Dee moved the Tartans to scoring range. But, the Rochester defense tightened their coverage, and stuffed the Tartans’ attack on the end zone, assuring themselves of a huge UAA victory.The Yellowjackets dominated the game statistically and defen­sively, holding the Tartans to 200 yards of total offense, while gain­ing 331 yards of their own. Horton was the Tartans leading rusher with 55 yards, followed closely behind by Grusky, who had 53 yards on the afternoon. The Yellowjackets had two rushers over 100 yards in their 243-yard ground effort. Dee lost his first game as a starter, completing only five of 26 pass attempts for 44 yards.After the game, coach Rich Lackner commented, “What can I say? It was a loss. They made a stupid coaching mistake there at the end and almost gave it to us. We had a great effort, but came up a little short.”
Andy Helms with his interception against Rochester last SaturdayKoiu nocKor/inrtnn Hhotoi'rnplior
Score by Quarters 1 2Rochester (2-0; 2-0 UAA) 7 0Carnegie Mellon (2-1; 1-1 UAA) 0 10
ScoringRoch -— Ql, 3:50, Collins 14 yard run (Caruso kick.good)CMU — Q2, 11:45, Horton 2 yard run (Harding kick good)CMU — Q2,6:02, Harding 24 yard field goalRoch — Q4, 14:10, Caruso 21 yard field goalRoch — Q4,7:16, Collins 34 yard run (kick no good)
Final1610
Team StatisticsCarnegie MellonRochesterFirst Downs1219Net Yards Rushing156243Net Yards Passing4496Passes — Att.-Comp.-Int.26-5-021-11-1Total Offense200331Punts — Average8-27.14-38.8Fumbles — Lost2-13-2Penaties — Yards2-204-30Time of Possession30:1729:43
Indivdual Statistics RushingCMU, Grusky 13-54-0, Dee 12-34, Ruland i 104-2.-29, Horton 12-55-1; Roch., Hurd 35-128-0, Collins 19™
PassingCMU, Dee 26-5-44-0-0; Roch., Eisenberg 21-11-96-1-0.
ReceivingCMU, Ruland 1-21, Grusky 1-16, Siket 1-8; Roch., Gelabert 5-59, Bisner 2-15.
Volleyball wins eight of last ten games
Mike Harris/Tartan Photographer
Volleyball team In action last week. Saturday, the team played In the 
Washington & Lee Tournament.
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Tartans volleyball team improved it’s overall record to 10-6 after tak­ing eight of the 10 weekend tour­nament games. The team mem­bers defended their champion­ship title at Washington & Lee (Lexington, Virginia) University's tournament this past weekend.The weekend before last, Carn­egie Mellon hosted a round-robin invitational, and captured sec­ond place. After losing to the even­tual first place Denison College on the Friday night of the tourna­ment, the Tartans had a very strong Saturday, finishing with wins against Marymount College in the morning and the Washing­ton & Jefferson Presidents in the afternoon match.This past Tuesday, the volley­ball team was also in action, prov­ing victorious over Geneva Col­lege and Bethany College at host Bethany. With the two wins, it improved it’s record to 6—4.The Washington & Lee Tour­nament began with the Tartans losing to the Washington & Lee in two hard fought but disap­pointing, games on Friday; how­ever, those would be the only two losses that the Tartans would endure, for they defeated the University of the South (Sewanee, Tennessee) in three games im­mediately following the match
withhostWashington&Lee. The team did not win all of the matches easily; it had to fight back from deficits on more than oneoccasion. Saturdaytumedout to be quite exhausting, with 11 games played in one day. In the day, the team defeated Maryville College in the early morning three games, nearby rival Washington & Jefferson in three games, and Goucher College in three games. The entire 11 games were played with only a one match break be­tween the last two colleges. The hard work payed off, however, for Carnegie Mellon (4-1 in the tour­nament) made it into the finals, playing 3-2 University of the South in a rematch.The rematch turned out to not be as Successful as the first set of games, for the day had taken its toll on the relatively young team. Grueling match after match took a great deal of energy out of the team, and it ended up sacrificing the two games to the University of the South, 12-15 and 15-17. The games tended to look like the earlier matches, where the Tar­tans allowed the competitors to gain an early lead, and then came back towards the end. However, South had a stronger finish than it experienced earlier, and ru­ined CMU's chances of winning the whole toumy. 'Individually, the Tartans looked strong, with senior Lisa Leonardo being named to the All-
Tournament team for the second straight year. Junior Jennifer New and senior Heather Thomp­son were both commended for their defensive skills on the court.Looking ahead at this week, the Tartans will be in action at home against Grove City College on Tuesday night at 6 pm. This weekend will prove to be a very strenuous one, with the Tartans travelingto Waltham, Massachu­setts to play at host Brandeis' UAA Round Robin Tournament.There will be matches played from Friday through Sunday, with each team playing all of the other six University Athletic As­sociation teams for the best seed­ing in the championship, which will be held towards the end of October.The Tartans wish to see a lot of support from the campus at all of their home matches, which are played in the gymnasium on the corner of Tech Avenue and Mar­garet Morrison Street.
In Sports...
Langer takes Cross Country 
meet at Indiana U. (Pa.)... 13
Gaudloso wins 100th as m en's 
soccer coach.....................15
Women's soccer Improves In 
game against Chicago.....13

---------------------------------------------------

At Northern Telecom, our vision of ihe future is to be the world's largest telecommunications equipment company by the year 2000. Together with Bell-Northern Research, 
our global R&D subsidiary, we're exploring today's most exciting technologies. Our VISIT desktop videoconferencing system, for example, brings work teams together instantly from 
thousands of miles apart. To find out more about career opportunities, contact your placement office. We are an equal opportunity employer.
|ven if you're thousands of miles apart, you can come to a meeting of the minds.
ik
With personal videoconferencing from Northern Telecom, 
distance and time are no longer barriers to teamwork.
I northern ITT tclccom
Technology the world calls on.

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyl,U
Ramsey Hong/Artis
The football team came very close to the current longest Division III 
winning streak of 12 games, held by Thomas More (Ky.) College.
cahBr umdrr ud.hgmp gatP batwr gMa jtuf
by DLIR TOSKA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The men’s cross-country team went to Indiana University of Pennsylvania last Saturday for an invitational. An invitational where they would have to run against Division I and II schools, this was to be a test for the young and injured team.Of the fifteen teams that were there, Carnegie Mellon placed fourth, behind one Division I school, Ohio University, which won the race, and two Division II schools. Butthey managed to beat all the other Division III schools to win the Divisional Champion­ship. Coach Gary Meckley said that the team “has not lost a Division III Championship at any invitational meet since1978,” and has not lost a dual meet to a Division III school since 1977.Individually, junior Jim Langer finished first among all runners with a time of 26:41 on the 5.2 mile course. Second on the team was Rich Hayes, a senior, who came 18th overall; third was Scott Phillips, a senior, who came 29th overall; fourth was Mike Rea, a freshman, who came 35th; and fifth was Kevin Pogany, a senior who came 53rd. Andy Fletcher and Omar Shareif rounded out the team’s top seven.
The team had run only two other races before this invita­tional. It beat California Univer­sity of PA, its first meet of the year, as well as winning the alumni meet it held at home last week. But this was the team’s first big meet experience where it would confront Division I and II schools which recruit more heavily than Division III schools
and with six runners not running because of injuries, the team had no idea how well they were going to do.Now, while looking in hind­sight, a healthy team with all its top runners would have been ablo to finish a close second at tho meet. The team is running better than expected, but because of tho injuries, the team is lacking the
depth that it needs.Next Saturday, the team is headed off to tho Dickinson Uni­versity invitational. This will al­low the team to see how the UAAs will be like, since all the teams in the invitational aro Division III. Tho coach doesn’t know if any of tho injured runners will bo able to run by then, but they still have a week to find out.
Soorts Short:
Women’s Soccer
The women's soccer team im­proved immensely in their game on Saturday, although they lost by a margin of 2-0 to a tough University of Chi­cago. As a team, they im­proved a great deal, although captain Rachel Bourne feels that there are still holes to fill. The transition from midfield to scoring forward "just wasn't there," and as so, Chicago capitalized on their fewmistakes. The movement towards the ball was more confident, but it wasn't up to the level that they wanted it to be at. Maria Casella, a freshman midfielder, did a tremendous job in the game, filling in the void created by the absence of captain Sonya Chmielnicki and Rachel Weiss. Although they were disappointed by the loss, they feel that they can build on the gains in their new forma­tion andleam from their mis­takes. They will next be in action on Tuesday at home against the University of California (Pa.), and on Sat­urday they will be playing Robert Morris away.
September 25 - October 1
"The strongest, most arresting 
collection in memory."
- HOUSTON POST
Il 11 v;.'1\!;-\kk/.'IiÍ'.[ i i; m i i i. -\ 
!: I I. M R I: I' I: R T O R Y 
lll imtíb )Ha-2 Aeggro.mDM2 A) ,vl,U
621-6601
Sun. - Thurs. 7:30 & 9:30 pm 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30,9:30 & 11:30 pm
$4.00 person
Do you need 
&)If o6 S rg.wp Dmd.j PaagehDr?
S Dmd.j jmdNaugr?
S jmarahgtgedh jmtugeua?
Carnegie MellonAfterHours
Hd.mryjP gd UtP
&ddPr'H lU,)
'H llv''H lUv'
'H lUv)'H lUK'
Ask forkeys at the
Security Office in Baker:
For more information, pick up a flyer at Hunt Library, Security, Info Desk, and the H&SS Academic Advisory Center
All Carnegie Mellon Students Interested in
Business and Technical
career opportunities with Proctor & Gamble
)CC )i)’(cTi c)JI&k E(CiIc(!
Explore the possibilities in a number 
of challenging areas including:
• Manufacturing
• Management Systems
• Product Development
s.ar-2 kajgaPoam ll6:00 jP 
’H ll,0
Amdugam & WtPoba ThRdmPtgedh karredh 
8maRmarMPahgr tHtebtoba­
sM.m-2 kajgaPoam l4 kfeod 'tbbmddP sauMheutb Ijjdmg.hegear idhRamahua
PnxXer&Gamble

---------------------------------------------------

T_________________________________TBe Part Of The Next Revolution.
You’ve had successes in your life. But 
you didn’t stop there. You enjoy a chal­
lenge and have a passion for looking to the 
future. Which is why you should talk to us. 
At Microsoft, we know how you feel.
Come find out more about Microsoft by 
attending our upcoming event.
Microsoft is an Equal Opportunity 
Employer and supports workforce diversity.
Microsoft
Microsoft® is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
These products have revolutionized the 
way people work. But instead of looking 
back on our achievements, Microsoft con­
tinues to look ahead.
Our focus on the future means you’ll 
have the chance to define new markets.
Use your skills to help others get the most 
out of our products. And bring the next rev­
olution in computing to the entire world.
sauMheutb Ijjdmg.hegear idhRamahua
Thursday, September 24,1992,10:00 - 4:00 pm Skibo Ballroom 
See your Career Center for details

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyl
Men’s soccer coach gains 100th victory
By ERIC STRAUSS again because of a disputed pen- goalie Jon Nory for a 2-^CMU what happened was, Terence was The Tartans can’t rest now, well. If w(By
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan Men’s Soccer team cruised over the University of Chicago on Saturday, 3-1, run­ning its record to 2-1 on the sea­son andgiving veteran head coach Nick Gaudioso his 100th win at CMU.Gaudioso, who has a career record of 134- 81—20 over a 15 year career at Maine Mari­time Academy and CMU (where he is 100- 59-13), downplayed the milestone, prefer- ringinstead to speak of his team's success.“It’s 100 [wins] here, but I’ve coached other places, too,” he said.“It’s okay, but nothing special. The main thing is our team is starting to look better with [se­nior midfielder John]Stivoric back. The kids are starting to get over the Case Western loss,” last weekend’s 2-1 defeat, which featured the game-tying goal called back on a disputed pen­alty.CMU looked like it jumped out to an early lead against Chicago, when senior Terence Sibiya scored early on in the game, but the goal was called back. Once
alty.“Our man might have been offside, but he was nowhere near the play, and had no effect on it,” Gaudioso said. “That got us fired up a bit, and we scored quickly after that.”Nineteen minutes into the half,
lead.After another Sibiya goal was called back, again on a disputed call, CMU finished Chicago when freshman Alan Levin intercepted a pass and kicked the ball to sophomore Pat Lucignani, who dribbled in to about 20 yards out from the goal and beat Nory to the near post.Bob Jackson scored the lone Chicago goal with 15 minutes left in the game, spoiling junior goalie Dave Shapiro’s bid for a shutout.3 The Tartans domi- f nated every facet of * the game, outshooting §• Chicago, 21-7, and holding an 8-3 edge S in comer kicks.¦o “After that thirdIX§ goal, the game was s over,” Gaudioso said. “We were just mop- ping up after that. To
Two Tartan defenders try to steal the ball last week.
CMU sophomore Vince Russell’s corner kick was headed in by Stivoric from about 15 yards out, and the Tartans had a 1-0 lead.Three minutes later, senior captain Alan Horn booted a long free kick into the penalty area, where Stivoric headed the ball to sophomore Alex Amezquita, who headed that ball past Chicago
Sports Short (Women's Cross Country­
The women's cross country team, in action this weekend, won the Johnstown Invitational (3.1 mile course) with 23 points. Among the four team field was Carnegie Mellon, University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown, Fairmount State Col­lege, and Washington & Jefferson University. Individually, the Tartans did very well, placing in five out of the top 10 places among the field of 30 runners.
Carnegie Mellon finishers:
1st Place: Missy Bausteri (21:03)2nd Place: Aliza Hildebrand (21:17)4th Place: Wendy Evans (22:00)6th Place: Cynthia Kolanowski (22:25)10th Place: Jodi Piccolo (23:14)11th Place: Colleen Barkley (23:33)
Hatmg 
kPtmg 
’tp
1maa
iMdbargamdb kumaahehD 
idhr.bgtgedhr qegM V.gmegedherg 
idhr.bgtgedhr qegM 1egharr Thrgm.ugdm
For all undergraduate and graduate students 
All participants eligible for raffle prizes! 
Skibo Lobby 
Tuesday, September 22, 1992 
10 am -2 pm
) Sponsored by Student Health Services, Division of Student Affairs, Medchek Laboratories, Department of ' Athletics, Carnegie Mellon Dining Service
Be Smart! Help Your Heart! Be Smart! Help Your Heart! Be Smart! Help Your Heart! Be 
Smart! Help Your Heart!
called for interference, but on the film, he was close, but the goalie didn’t have a chance. They [the referees] called it. I wouldn’t have. He clearly didn’t interfere, but what are you going to do? On the other play, the offside didn’t have any bearing on the goal, but ... that’s the way they called it.”
however, as they have a pair of good games coming up, one with a second-year Point Park team during the week, the other a big matchup with Franklin and Marshall this weekend.“Franklin and Marshall is one of the best teams in the East,” Gaudioso said. “It does pretty
we could win these two games, then that’ll mean a lot to our ranking, because they’re from the East, and they have some pretty good teams. The kids are looking forward to these two games.”
Staffwriter Eric Strauss is a 
freshman creative writing major
their credit, they came out hard in the second half, but really, the game was over. We played really well in the first half, and spent the second half just hanging on to get out of there [with the win].”Asked about the officiating, Gaudioso tried to remain diplo­matic.“Well, we went over the film ...
lume87u,Is 4mm8CsVIasa,r ngiaeioe, MIU
aREM BREM :ETREHAPL ILCLE
OLNLDAPL FHRCNHSA GHC'9NP3 R1 prPEL
FrPNPCCPEHA oPEMLCRmH oR'tr BRmHL
' > eLPlLE erLPNLET
Arthur Andersen & Co, SC, an international professional services firm, 
has significant opportunities for staff accountants and consultants in its 
many practice areas including auditing, business advisory services, 
taxation, systems integration consulting, strategic services and change 
management consulting.
We may have a significant opportunity for you if you are a citizen or are 
legal to work in one of the above countries and will be returning there 
upon the completion of a BA/BS or MS/MA in any of the following 
programs or an MBA or JD:
? pRnC'tHm o3PHE3H
? cNH3tmP3LN LET pRnC'tHm cEMPEHHmPEM
? :E1RmnLtPRE LET sH3PAPRE oDAtHnA
? oR1tlLmH cEMPEHHmPEM
We will be on campus November 11 to interview qualified students for 
these positions. If you are interested in meeting with one of our 
representatives, submit your resume directly to Kathy Hjurmstad, 1666 K 
Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006. Resumes should be received by 
October 15. The Career Opportunities Center will be collecting resumes 
from students enrolled in the Graduate School of Industrial- 
Administration from October 12 to 16. Please contact their office or the 
Carnegie Mellon Career Center for more information.
yir5ciytoaidat
Arthur Andersen A rth ur
Ai'Cor
ÜMDERSEN 
JONSULTING
Arthur Andersen A rth ur
Equal Opportunity Employer ^
classified
JOBS
$200-5500 weekly. Assemble products 
at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid 
direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Informa­
tion^ Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. 
Copyright # PA11KDH.
Earn 51,500 weekly mailing our 
circulars!... Begin now! ... Free packet! 
SEYS, Dept. 256, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 
38018-4000.
Earn $500+ weekly stuffing envelopes at 
home. Send long SASE: Country Living 
Shoppers, Dept. C22, 14415-E 
Greenwell Springs Rd., Suite 318, 
Greenwell Springs, LA 70739.
Technical consultant needed for local 
growing software firm. Responsibilties 
include providing technical support to 
clients using our psychology experiment- 
generator software package. Require­
ments include working knowledge of 
psychology and DOS. Research and 
programming experience a plus. Part- 
time position with potential for full-time. 
Recent graduates and soon-to-be 
graduates encouraged to apply. 
Transportation required. Send resume 
and cover letter detailing psychology 
and computer experience to: 
Psycholoogy Software Tools, 511 
Bevington Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15221.
QN CAMPUS JOBS
Campus represetatives wanted. 
Heatwave vacations. Spring break 1993. 
The best rates & the biggest commis­
sions. For more information, call 800- 
395-wave.
SERVICES
A humanist chaplain is now available 
for non-theistic personalized weddings 
and other ceremonies, and for discus­
sions. Phone: 781-7205.
Greeks & Clubs. Raise a cool 51,000.00 
in just one week! Plus Î1000 for the 
member who calls! And a free head­
phone radio just for calling 1-800-932- 
0528, ext. 65.
Dissertation group, ongoing, to add 
members in October. To facilitate 
productivity and creativity, discuss the 
subjective aspects of this process. Private, 
low-fee. For info, interview, call 421- 
3715, Dr. Singh.
Work group forming in October, to 
facilitate productivity and creativity on 
large projects undertaken after graduate 
school. Modelled after Dissertation 
Group that I have run for a number of 
years. For info, interview, call 421-3715, 
Dr. Singh.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. **Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes.**1 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 ; 
pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 ¡!
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call ; 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Spring break '93 - sell trips, earn cash | 
& go free!!! Student Travel Services is ¦ 
now hiring campus representatives. Ski ! 
packages also available. Call 1-800-648- [ 
4849.
Travel free! Sell the most reliable spring [ 
break packages! Jamaica, Cancún, 
Bahamas, Florida! Best commissions/ ! 
service! Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426- |
7710.
Classified Rates
GUwf 1s2MbAAAAAAAAAAAGTAff ° 1,
wGUTf 1s2MbAAAAAAAAAFJAff ° 1,
TfUGff 1s2MbAAAAAAFGfAff°1,
k-78bb.p.CMb y9bI NC 48.M NR 
S8bt s2 StCS, NCps2C ItC p.2bI 
bStCM97CM 29i M8ICA
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

WANT TO KNOW MORE ABOUT THE
CARNEGIE MELLON 
CENTRE de TOURS?
COME TO AN INFORMATIONMEETING
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 
SKIBO, ROOM 13 
4: 30-6 PM (DROP BY ANYTIME)
E( ETCC H)V( )AACTi)sTIVk )V’ in&&(Vs 
iIn&k( CTksk- 1I&c(& i(Vs&( wa sIn&k 
ksn’(Vsk ETCC '( )V)TC)'C( 1I& zn(ksTIVk
’IVFs A)kk nA YIn& iH)Vi( sI CTV( TV 1&)Vi(Fk 
'()nsT1nC CIT&( V)CC(Y )V’ (XA(&T(Vi( 1&(ViH 
inCsn&( EHTC( &(i(TVTVW icn i&(’Ts! T
REMEMBER: THE APPLICATION 
DEADLINE FOR SPRING '93 IS 
OCTOBER 16.
T1 YIn i)VFs iIc( sI sH( c((sTVW 'ns E)Vs cI&( TV1I&c)sTIV
’&IA 'Y sH( 
I11Ti( I1TVs(&V)sTIV)C (’ni)sTIV 
l,y kcTsH H)CC 8'(HTV’ H)c'n&W H)CC­
I& i)CC (cTCY 'T)ViHTVT )s X4y6y 
E( )CkI H)V( TV1I&c)sTIV IV IsH(& ksn’Y )'&I)’ IAsTIVk-

---------------------------------------------------

Abortion issue 
inspires action
By LAURA McCLURE
Tartan Junior Staffwritersimilar pro-life, organization from Pitt to provide pre­natal care.Between the views of the pro-choice and pro-life movements, there is a divi­sion which grows increasingly strident Once a month with every passing day. With the new they hold onslaught of debate, protest, and laws, non-violent ignorance on the topic of abortion is no protests in longer an option. The issue is every- association where — in politics, in the news, and in with “Project Mul- the personal realm of moral beliefs. It’s titude” in front of an issue juxtaposed for better or worse Pitts-burgh’s abortion with the entire presidential campaign, clinics, or “abortuaries” asand although it may never be decided for good, people are taking a stand.“People are being forced to draw the line,” says pro-life activist and senior biology major Aileen Connolly. “They have to think about it now, and those groups as these and others that help still sitting on the fence might feel obliged shape AFL’s views on abortion and to go pro-choice because it’s more popu- why women have them. “A lot of people lar.” Connolly, along with co-director and junior psychology major Mark Sand­ers, is head of the Association For Life (AFL), a campus organization designedto provide sanctity for all life — born or Regardless of whether your views arepro-life or pro-choice, there is no deny­ing that the AFL provides valuable services to the community in the form of volunteer work.
unborn. Right now their focus is prima­rily on the unborn, and they feel very strongly about the upcoming presiden­tial election in regards to that focus. “Toelect a pro-___________________________choice presi­dent would be to go back now.... Icouldn’t vote for BillClinton,” says Connolly.Their con­viction leads them to act in many capaci­ties. Like the
Campus Asso- QgnynnHHBHHinnHBBHHHBBHBBBHIciation for Re­productive Rights (CARR), the Associa- So does CARR, the pro-choice group tion for Life is also highly involved in the on campus. Although keeping abortion community. Members of AFL volunteer legal is the group’s top priority right regularly at Mom’s House, a daycare now, CARR also works to provide easily program for unwed mothers, and at the obtainable birth control, and for other Genesis House, where they work with a issues related to reproductive rights. In
Sanders calls them. One of their members, senior art major Dave Pegher, is starting a daycare program on campus completely run by volunteers. It is such support
who get abortions are those who think they can’t talk to anyone ... people don’t realize how many people there are that will help you,” says Sanders,
"The organization [CARR] is made up of 
people from every background... we have 
active Catholics; atheists; people who are 
wealthy, and those not so wealthy; men; 
everyone. ”
L Rebecca Livingston, 
CARR coordinator
the community, members volunteer at_________ the Women’s Center andPlanned Parenthood. CARR participated in the March for Women’s Lives in Wash­ington, D. C., last year, and junior English major Re­becca Livingston, CARR’s coordinator, spoke at a rally for 500 people in Pittsburgh this past summer. Members will be phone banking for pro-choice candidates within the next two weeks,_________ as well. When asked if
tttttt CARR would march again, Livingston said, “If Bush by some terrible chance got re-elected, then yes, there would be another march.”Aside from community service, there are many other similarities between 
Please see ABORTION, page 12
ALLIES promote 
tolerance
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
Students and staff have joined this semester to show their support of gay, lesbian, and bisexual people, and the tangible result of their action is ALLIES, a new CMU activist group.However, ALLIES is not a group whose aim is to march up and down the street until someone listens to its demands. It is rather, as Roslyn Hall, an area coordinator for Residence Life and one of the founders of the organization, says, to act more “on a one-on- one level. It’s really low-key, not a massive thing. Someone wears the button and someone else asks what it means, and they start talking. That’s the idea.”The ALLIES button features the symbol of the group, a rainbow- colored triangle with the word “ALLIES” written above to form a diamond shape. “The design is inclusive,” says Hall. “The colors are a sign of hope, like people coming out of the darkness into the light.” The group was formed with several intentions. According to Hall, the idea behind the organization is to be “highly visible, but not highly controversial. There are other groups that do that.”By wearing the ALLIES button, students also designate themselvos as “safe” people for others to come to with any concorns they might have regarding gay, lesbian, or bisexual issues. A section in the ALLIES Statement of Purpose reads, “to provido access for students to specific individuals and forum for confidential discussion, support, and resource information.”The group’s membership is primarily heterosexual, but gays, lesbians, and bisexuals are welcome as well. Hall says, “Basically, our members are all people who are interested in fighting oppression of gays, lesbians, and bisexuals. The group was formed mostly as a way for heterosoxuals to show their support, but we don’t assume heterosexuality. Some of our members are students who don’t feel comfortable in cmuOUT or other groups.”What kind of students join ALLIES? “Students who believe gays, lesbians, and bisexuals have the right to be gay, lesbian, and bisexual without fear of harass­ment or physical harm,” says Hall. “ALLIES is a group of members of the dominant culture fighting for the freedoms of the non-dominant culture.... It’s a really good feeling to have so much support across the board.”Orientation counselors and RAs were introduced to ALLIES in a program during their training. They read statements from famous persons such as k. d. lang and Eleanor Roosevelt regarding gay, lesbian, and bisexual rights, and discussed their ideas on the subject. ALLIES have also made a large effort to reach as many freshmen as possible, and programs with cmuOUT have been planned.Members of ALLIES seem to be pleased with the organization. Katarina Midelfort, a junior chemistry major, says, “I joined the group because I was looking for a way to support gays, lesbians, and bisexuals without being discriminated against for standing up.”So far, ALLIES has over 100 people doing just that: standing up for the rights of others who they may or may not know. Says Hall, “Students have jumped right in and made it happen.”
ALLIES meetings are held the first Thursday of every month from 4:30-5:30pm 
in the West Wing TV room, and everyone is encouraged to attend whether they are 
members or not. The discussion for October’s meeting will center around the topic 
of “Homosexuality and the Bible.”
Amnesty works 
for human rights
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Think about this — you are thrown in jail, maybe sentenced to death, for speaking out against, or simply disagreeing with your government. But, wait, you say—this is America; that would never happen. Burt Holzman, a sophomore in me­chanical engineering, thinks, perhaps, you shouldn’t be quite so confident. “Even though you can’t always see it going on, human rights violations are happening every day in every country around the world — including our own,” says Holzman, president oftheCMU chapter of Amnesty Interna­tional (Amnesty). It is an inter­national group that is, accord­ing to Holzman, “dedicated to the securing of fundamental human rights for everyone around the world, and putting an end to the death penalty worldwide.” Not an unambitious goal, but one that Amnesty believes can be ac­complished.Amnesty, which was founded in 1961 by British lawyer Peter Benneson, now has over
500,000 members worldwide. Madeupofpeople from 44 coun­tries around the world, the or­ganization was also awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1977 for its work.Amnesty is often up against some very powerful political groups such as the governments of South Africa, China, Yugo­slavia, and the U.S. It would seem the only way one could fight such power would be with comparable force. But Amnesty is a pacifist organization.“Letter writing and petitions are used to put pressure on governments or groups to. re­lease, or get a fair trial for, the individual in question,” says Holzman. He also says that the CMU group, which reorganized last year after disappearing a few years ago, “deals mainly with human rights at CMU and around the Pittsburgh area.” In support of Amnesty’s inter­national goals, the members or­ganize letter-writing and peti­tioning campaigns in response to “Urgent Action Appeals” — human rights violations news sent out by Amnesty Interna­tional that ask for quick re­sponse to immediate problems.
Please see AMNESTY, page L2
SEAC campaigns for Green Vote
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
The Student Environmental Action Coalition (SEAC), is more than just an environmental ac­tivist group. The Carnegie Mel­lon chapter is the Western Penn­sylvania Coordinating Group and works with groups through­out Pennsylvania, Ohio, and the entire country on environmen­tal issues that range from Cam­pus Green Vote voter registra­tion to lobbying in Washington, D.C.Sophomore environmental studies major Joshua Knauer, who is Western Pennsylvania Coordinator for SEAC, says, “We bring students together and give them everything they need to network together and work on environmental problems.”Knauer’s motto for the group is “SEAC is anything students make it,” and it seems to be true. Various members of the group are working on endan­gered species, pollution, recy­cling, and forestry issues. They write letters to members of Con­gress and file appeals to the National Forestry Service pro­testing the logging of Allegheny National Forest. They corre­spond with SEAC chapters in Washington, D.C., who are lob­bying for the Endangered Spe­cies Act, up for reconsideration
this fall. They write letters to local officials urging improvement in air and water quality in Pitts­burgh, and the removal of nearby toxic waste incinerators. They protest the University of Pittsburgh’s financing of the Mount Graham deforestation project in Arizona — an endan­gered species habitat and Apache sacred religious ground. “SEAC is all volunteers,” says Knauer,
“and we try to solve environmen­tal problems through education and action.”SEAC’s most recent endeavor, the non-partisan Campus Green Vote, was a great success. Over 200 people have turned in their registration forms, and 200 more forms have been handed out. The event was a double effort: first, to get people out to vote, and sec­ond, to get people to vote regard­
ing “green” issues — those that concern the environment. The group’s table provided informa­tion on the environmental posi­tions of presidential candidates Bush and Clinton as well as U.S. Senate candidates Arlen Specter and Lynn Yeakel. To provide more extensive information on getting involved in the electoral process environmentally, SEAC is host- 
Please see SEAC, page L3
Laura McCluro/Tartan Photographer 
Students registered to vote In front of Doherty Hall last week. SEAC’s Campus Green Vote project will 
continue through the first week of October.

---------------------------------------------------

L2sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyl
So what happens 
now...
Ibis Alvisa Gonzalez, a young 
Cuban activist, spoke with 
students and faculty in Porter 
Hall last Thursday. The dis­
cussion, which was sponsored 
by the Political Speakers Forum 
Board, centered around the U.S. 
blockade of Cuba, Cuban 
tourism, and the state of Cuba 
following the fall of the Soviet 
Union.
Abortion issue inspires both sides to act on beliefs
ABORTION, from page LI
AFL and CARR. Their similarités don’t lie in their opinions ¦— these are blatantly obvious to anyone who even flips past the News section — but there are much less apparent ways in which they are alike. Both the terms they used and the incidents they described were the same, albeit with much different emphases on what they described as important. Says Livingston, “CARR is made up of people from every background.... We have active Catholics; atheists; people who are wealthy, and those not so wealthy; men; everyone.”This statement is remarkably like one of Connelly’s: “There are lots of different types of people in the pro-life movement... we’re not ânti-sex, we’re not anti fill-in-the-blank ... we had an atheist in our group last year.”“¦We’re not a bunch of radicals,” says Livingston. This sentiment is echoed by Sanders in almost the same words: “We’re not a radical group.”So where exactly do the pro-life and pro-choice movements split apart in their beliefs? Essentially, it comes down to the basic question of whether a child is a child from the moment of conception or not. Any pro-lifer will of course tell you yes — and if it is indeed a child, than indeed an abortion is also murder.“People say if you have an abortion early in pregnancy, it’s okay... but if a woman has an abortion anywhere in pregnancy, she doesn’t have a baby in nine months,” says Sanders. “When people talk about the stages of fetus development, they talk about this four-week çtage, this eight-week stage — they don’t realize that it’s a con­tinuum of development. It’s the in-between stages that count.”Whnt any pro-choicer will be quick to point out, however, is the fact that this idea of life from conception has never been proven medi- çally. For every doctor who says that life does begin at conception, there are three more who disagree. This being the case, according to pro-choicers, the issue of abortion becomes no longer a medical one, but a moral one to be decided individually. And since no two people will ever hold the exact same moral beliefs, the pro-choice movement asks — can anyone really considor passing a law that would stuff every person’s moral odds and ends into the same mold? This is whore the pro-choice movement comes in.The pro-choice movement is by no means pro-abortion. Says Livingston, “If there was ever a bill passed requiring all pregnant girls under the age of fifteen to receive an abortion, we’d certainly be out there protesting that. After all, these are your reproductive organs—you decide what to do with them.” It is instead exactly what it claims to be, the opportunity to make your own choices. Not only the choice of having an abortion, but the chance to decide your own morals. As Livingston says, “When you’re pro-choice, you have to let the other people make their own choices as well.” Including those people who decide abortion is wrong.
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES 
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 
1 OR 2 BEDROOM 
APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From $47 per day (on a monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and concierge services available.
(412) 441-44445-105 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232Toll Free 800-767-848;'
Says Connolly, “If you look at the issue with an open mind, avoiding everything you’ve heard, you’re going to come out on the side of what’s right.”What’s right for you may not beright for someone else. Agreement is not necessary, but understanding is ¦— discussion, exchange, and tolerance — because it is difficult to hate what we understand.
For more information on AFL or CARR, contact Aileen Connolly, 
Mark Sanders, or Rebecca Livingston.
)s iIVV(X knA(&iIcAnsTVW &
ks)&s ETsH inksIc(& 1Iink-
Come Visit With Our Representatives 
At Tlte Engineering Career Fair 
On Your Campus This Week.
Customer focus is the key to the CONVEX Computer Corporation environment, 
where some of the brightest minds are creating supercomputing solutions for world- 
class challenges. CONVEX has been redefining the opportunities in affordable 
supercomputing since 1982, when we introduced the first supercomputer under SI 
million. Now, we're building on our tradition of leadership of hardware and 
software.
Career opportunities at CONVEX .can he found in the following areas:
• Software Development 
¦ Technical Support
• Software Test
• Systems Administration
• Hardware Development
• Technical Writing
• Hardware Test 
•MIS
All positions require a BSEE, 1ISCS or equivalent. At CONVEX, we'll give you 
every opportunity to prove yourself, in an open environment where performance 
is the only test.
If unable to visit with our Representatives at the Engineering Career 
Fair this week, please send your resume to: Human Resources, CONVEX 
Computer Corporation, Dept. CF, P.O. Box 833851, Richardson, TX 
75083-3851. We are an Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/D/V.
= CONVEX
Amnesty works 
for freedom
AMNESTY, from page UOther upcoming projects for CMU’sAmnestychapterinclude producing rock concerts on the Cut in support of human rights, showing movies about prison­ers of conscience, and setting up write-a-thons for letters and petitions.Amnesty is a non-political group in that it responds only to cases that are from other coun­tries, except when the death penalty is concerned. In this way, the chapters can retain non-political status within their own countries and also keep relatively free from government persecution.In order to remain outside of the political realm, the group
refuses to take sides in cases such as South Africa, where violence occurs on both sides. Amnesty petitions for all violence to stop, no matter who is committing it.“I want people to be aware that human rights violations are hap­pening all the time, eveiywhere, whether we realize it or not,” says Holzman.Amnesty’s goal is to alleviate the needless suffering of the vic­tims of these violations, and it is a realistic goal. Holzman says, “Governments do pay attention to letters that we write. Every letter counts.”
Toadoptaprisoner of conscience 
or to work on developing projects 
forCMU’s Amnesty International 
chapter, contact Burt Holzman.
c)£( ) c)&£ 
1I& YIn&k(C1-
AHYkTiTksk 
c)sH(c)sTiT)Vk 
iIcAns(& kiT(VsTksk
Do you have a PhD, a Master’s or 
Bachelor’s degree?
Is your degree in Mathematics, Physics, 
Computer Science or in Electrical 
Engineering with emphasis in signal 
processing?
Are you a U.S. citizen?
YESNO
YES
YESNO
If you answered YES to all of the above questions, read on! 
XonTech is a highly respected, progressive R & D firm specializ­
ing in the empirical analysis of complex physical phenomena, 
and development of advanced concepts and technologies in sup­
port of numerous defense programs. Our research encompasses 
the following:
Research, development and evaluation of advanced radar and 
weapons systems:
• Signal Processing • System Simulation
• Performance Analysis • System Design
• Signature Analysis • Threat Analysis
Analysis and evaluation of flight test data (aircraft, ballistic mis­
sile, satellite) including:
Trajectory Reconstruction 
Re-entry/Aerodynamics
1 Navigation Analysis 
1 Orbital Mechanics
u92 1s2, .b ICSti.S877R St877Civ.iv 8iM sppC2b CWSC4I.si87 P.bx
.N.7.IR 8iM M.2CSI S7.CiI SsiI8SIA VtC2C 82C CWSC77CiI s44s2I9x
i.I.Cb ps2 ICSti.S87 8iM y8i8vCyCiI 8MP8iSCyCiIA
All applicants selected will be subject to a security 
investigation and must meet eligibility requirements for 
access to classified material.
XonTech will be attending the Carnegie Mellon 
Technical Opportunities Conference 
on Thursday, September 24 in the Skibo Activities 
Center. Please mark your calendar to visit us.
Qualified professionals are invited to submit cover letter and 
resume in confidence to: Corporate Human Resources Dept., 6862 
Hayvenhurst Ave., Van Nuys, CA 91406. We are an equal opportu­
nity employer M/F/D/V.
XdhsauM2 Thu-
“People, Science and Technology” 
Northern & Southern California 
Washington D.C. • Huntsville, Alabama • Colorado
ROSH HASHANAH ON CAMPUS
EVENT
Erev Rosh Hashanah Dinner 
Egalitarian Conservative Service 
Traditional Service 
Rosh Hashanah Dinner
Egalitarian Conservative Service 
Reform Service
Traditional Services in Squirrel Hill 
Afternoon Yom Tov meal 
Traditional Service and meal
Traditional services in Squirrel Hill 
Egalitarian Conservative Service 
Afternoon Yom Tov meal
TIMELOCATION
Sunday, September 27, 1992 
5:15 PM Hillel Dining Center
7:00 PM Ballroom, Wm Pitt Union
7:00 PM Wherrett Room, Skibo
following service
Monday, September 28, 1992
9:00 AM Ballroom, Wm Pitt Union
10:00 AM Assembly Rm, Wm Pitt Union
8:00 AM Meet at Skibo parking lot
3:00 PM Meet at Skibo parking lot
8:30 PM Wherrett Room, Skibo
Tuesday, September 29, 1992
8:00 AM Meet at Skibo parking lot
9:00 AM Ballroom, Wm Pitt Union
3:00 PM Meet at Skibo parking lot
COORDINATORS
B’nai B’rith Hillel 
B’nai B’rith Hillel 
Chabad House 
Chabad House
B’nai B’rith Hillel 
B’nai B’rith Hillel 
Chabad House 
Chabad House 
Chabad House
Chabad House 
B’nai B’rith Hillel 
Chabad House
VtC bC2P.SCb It8I QZi8. Q/2.7t o.77C7 8iM -t8N8M os9bC si -8y49b Sss2M.i8IC 82C s4Ci Is 877 yCyNC2b sp ItC 9i.PC2b.IR Ssyy9i.IRA VtC 
Oa**amL raVV Yeaue .b 7sS8ICM si ItC SsyC2 sp q.pIt mPCi9C 8iM Q.vC7s1 Qs97CP82M si ItC S8y49b sp ItC Yi.PC2b.IR sp 
r.IIbN92vtA g'aQu .b 7sC8ICM si qs2NCb mPCi9C iC82 Ls2C1ssM si ItC S8y49b sp -82iCv.C LC77si Yi.PC2b.IRA gI9MCiIb 1.77 NC 
yCCI.iv .i p2siI sp g,.Ns éqs2NCb mPCi9C b.MCE 8iM O.77.8y r.II Yi.si éq.pIt mPCi9C b.MCE G°w ts92 NCps2C bC2P.SCbh 8iM 187,.iv sPC2 
IsvCItC2A -877 9b ps2 8MM.I.si87 .ips2y8I.si 8Ns9I yC87bh tsyC tsb4.I87.IRh bStCM97C sp bC2P.SCb .i 7sS87 Ssiv2Cv8I.sibh s2 Is y8,C M.iiC2 
2CbC2P8I.sibc
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
160 North Craig Street, 621-8875
CHABAD HOUSE ON CAMPUS 
683-7770

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yylCU
Jck 'nkTV(kk c)iHTV(k
COPY MACHINES
Hundreds to choose from 
new, repossessed, or end of lease models 
NO REASONABLE OFFER REFUSED
P.O. Box 393 
1 Main Street 
Slovan, PA 15078
y4KOl6Ky
Ask for Dick or Henry
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 268 2111Pittsburgh, PA 15213 „.... _
SEprzt
iPcuj /x< tin: tD’tJer of: ____________________ i
ommiTER------------------------------------------------------
Carnegie Mellon' 
newspaper silice 1906
. Memo:
k()i utPjteDhr Rdm Hdgam g.mhd.g
(hHemdhPahgtb tugeHergr qdmf dh Dmaah err.ar
SEAC, from page Li
ing the Campus Green Vote Con­ference at CMU on September 25 and 26. Sophomore computer sci­ence major Maurice Bajcz, out­reach coordinator for CMU’s SEAC chapter, has been busy contacting colleges and universi­ties in and around Pittsburgh about the conference, inviting both SEAC chapters and other environmental groups. “If SEAC goes out andsays, Thisis aproject — we need people to help us,’ then we get a lot more done,” says Bajcz. “A lot of groups have the motivation but don’t have a di­rection. The more nationally or­ganized the movement becomes, the more power and strength there will be in it.”So why not give them a direc-
tion? Last Thursday, the CMU rection as well, SEAC is trying to the environment.” mentally conscious,” sayschapter (Pittsburgh’sfirst), spon- work with area elementary Freshman MCS student Houlihan. SEAC is planning to sored the first meeting of a new schools and high schools to hold Christa Houlihan, inreach coor- work with fraternities, sororities, chapter at the University of Pitts- conferences there. Bajcz says, dinator for the group, is working and other campus organizations, burgh. In addition, the group is sponsoring a con­ference for all of Western Pennsylvania at Chatham College on October 31 on how to form an effective en- vironmental group. Key­note speakers for the event are Gina Collins, National Director of Green Corps, and Representative Tom Murphy (D-Penn), who re­ceived the highest rating in —— the country from the League of Conservation Voters. “Murphy is very concerned with environ­mental issues,” says Knauer.To give young people some di-
“A lot of groups have the motivation but not 
the direction. The more nationally organized 
the movement becomes, the more power 
and strength there will be in it."
L Maurice Bajcz, 
SEAC outreach coordinator
“Maybe we’ll have a small gen­eral assembly, basically about the importance of the environment and how everything we do affects
with several on-campus factions to improve environmental aware­ness “in a fun way that makes them want to be more environ-
sponsoring “different forms of contests to get people involved,” says Houlihan.SEAC would also like to collaborate with Recy­cling Coordinator Bar­bara Kviz as well as WRCT to get spots for in­formation and discus­sions on environmental issues on and off campus.“We’d also like to make recycling more practical on campus — there need to be more glass and cardboard recy­cling deposit areas,” says Houlihan. “We don’t recycle plas-
tic, magazines, or newspapers now, either.”Even with these endeavors, SEAC still finds time to have fun. Last Saturday they showed 
FernGully, an animated movie about the importance of the world’s rainforests, in the Morewood Reading Room. Trips to recycling plants and national forests are also being planned, as well as camping trips to Allegh­eny Forest and Ohiopyle.“We’re encouraging people to enjoy what little wilderness we have around here,” says Knauer. “Everything that we do is to build a sense of community among people with common goals.”
For more information on get­
ting involved with SEAC, contact 
Joshua Knauer.
sdgtbbp ThgamtugeHa Vewad
Threw astmegghticnw utbhne Phoet de,tsohiy MfDoht
C(s HICCYEII’ cIVT( c)WTi )V’ kA(iT)C (11(isk c)£( YIn sH( ks)& I1 YIn& 
IEV cTVTOcIVT( I& csV ksYC( cnkTi VT’(I!
Tuesday, September 22nd 
3-9 pm Skibo Ballroom 
Free with CMU I.D.
MLtigtseo Sl kS MLe,hcn jreifg 
BDioeo Sl FtDs k,fhrhfheg Bee

---------------------------------------------------

Doonesbury is not a feature in USA Today. 
And you have to pay for USA Today.rea.DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
CHECKING US 
FOR FAMILY VALUES, NO DOUBT. TU.
eer m'RB ABOUT TO \ Lose CUR \ACCR£PtTAim.
THIS 1550 UNFAIR.! OUR FAMILY 15 INTACT, NOR­MAL-
ecemYEAH. WELL, APPARENTLY SHE DOESN'T KNOW - THAT.
GOOD GOP..
OH. NO... THAT. ns THE
COMMISSIONER OF COMICS!
WHAT'S SHE WANT?
QUICK/60 GET 
UJHAT'S- HER-FACE!
ALEX.. YOUR DAUGHTER'S 
ÑAMEIS ALEX..
DoonesburyRegi voj sttr ao
ME, ITS CLEAR. 
THAT IAS GENES 
CONTAIN THE EVOLUTIONAL 
PERFECTION OF 
EARTULS ON A.
BY GARRY TRUDEAUSTOP THAT/ M'i BUTT 
DOESNT NEED 
AESTHETIC ENHANCEMENT.'
I AM THE culmination 
C£ CREATION
ALSO, WE NEVER BUY TAPES THAT HAVE THE OFFENSIVE LYRICS STICKER...
(JJHAT DO ¦ WE'RE ABOUT 
YOU MEAN, TO Ed TAKENTOO LATE?} 1 OFF-LINE.
PONT BE RJPICUL0U5. m CAN'T 
BETAKEN OFF-LINE!
TRU5T ME ON THIS...NO WAY! THERE'S TOO MUCH MONEY AT STAKE TO... .
WHEN SOU THINK WOW WELL 
BASIC APPLIANCES WORK, 
ITS HARD TO BELIEVE 
ANIONE EVER GETS ON 
AN AIRPLANE..
Doonesbury
IF YOU ASK YEAH, WELL, THAT'S ME, THIS JUSTTHEKJNP OFWUniP -TUlUr-. / A^fAK.P Tarta_
XT5ME. 
WOOW I ISPON REDBYA
ME? WHO MOUTHEP OFF
WHAT ISTHIS-WmiS IS A THEN.F, A
FEATURE
NOW YOU'VE PONE IT!
nr^~
WHS DoSou \ 
WANT A L
Picture uke ] ^ 
THAT? 8 \
HERE, TAKE. 
A PICTURE 
OF ME, OK?
I'LL 5IT HOLDING THIS 
BIG BOOK, LOOKING 
CONTEMPLATILE.
ON THE OFF-CHANCE )
I DECIDE TO DO BC 
SOMETHING J 
RESPONSIBLE WITH 
m UFE, I’LL [r¿ 
NEED TO ESTABLISH 
A FICTITIOUS H&N CHILDHOOD. Jxl,
DoonesburyBY DIEGO TUTWEILLÉR
MY MARRIAGE. ^EE, HEE!
FOR ONE THING! ^TPOW / WANT 70 DO
I DUNNO- T vue FHUUC. 
TVKGMSLSDI ,DEA! LETS GO WANT TO DO? \ poWNTDWNAND 
HURL EPITHETS F AT PEOPLE D/F-9 FERBHTFROMUS.\
HI, HONEY! HI, DREAM-BOAT! WHAT'S /p? HAPPENING ?
WEHAVE.A NEW WRITER, I TAKE IT.
HEY, AT LEAST
TV\\S IS WHAT T 
L\KE ABOUT PHOTOGRAPHS. 
PEOPLE THINK 
CAMERAS ALWAYS 
m-THE TRUTH.
THES THINK THE CAMERA 
\S A DISPASSIONATE 
MACHINE THAT RECORDS 
ONLS FACTS, BUT REAU.S, 
CAMERAS LIE ALL 
Erik THE TIME/SELECT 
jl THE FACTS AND 
4 '¡AtU MANIPULATE
ACv',îA oeg onMoel w
FOR EXAMPLE, I’VE CLEARED 
OFF THIS CORNER OF MS BED. 
TAKE A PICTURE OF ME HERE, 
BUT CROP OUT ALL TUE MESS 
AROUND ME, 50 \T LOOKS LIKE
r rggb vh fttm odkSpp
IS THIS EMEU WAIT, LET
LEGAL 7 ME CoMB
MS HAIR 
^ \ AND PUT OH
% 'p A TIE.
DoonesburyBY DIEGO TUTWEILLER
mark iu THE USUAL—SS22L S/NSLE MOTHERSHONEY'*' UJH0M0FK‘HONEY¦ HOMOSEXUALS
I WHO TEACH,I PEOPLE U)HOY 6ETAIDS...
,er mow.MAYBE ITS GOOD IDEA! TIMEWEMOVEP MORE OF. TD WE SUBURBS! US...
...AND LESS A PLACE WHERE OF THEM! WECAN PRAC- \ TICE OUR VALVES IN PEACE \ ANP QUIET!
WHO/STHISGUY?
I DONT KNOW. I JUST WISH HE'D GET MY NOSE RJGHT!
tr2oegngS 3
PICTURE OF ME 
LOOKING WEIL- 
ADJUSTED AHD 
PLMIHG SPORTS.
o.oao tMDeo ot
DO IT. .—
Sou :0og
SPORTS.
FFP"
•EAH, BUT PEOPLE BELIEVE 
»T TOEt SEE, WO HOW 
«ve sot \ photographic 
DOCUMENT OF A TAKE 
OULWOOP REAM FOR. AHV 
FUTURE BIC6RAPUICM. HEEDS 
I MM HME'
P,RÖTf I EXCEPT FOR OHE 
SHREWD DETML. SUPPOSE 
PLMWHG, THE PHOTOOWWER 
HUH? I OOESHT KEEP
¦<0U ORNE 
HARO 
BARGMM, 
FLEA-BAIT.
00«, NOW 
MOT-MAM IS 
ABOUT TO RfNEM- 
Hfi SECRET lOENTITt TO 
AMMoHBNBE'
DoonesburyBY DIEGO TUTWEILLER
DADPY! PAPPY! GREAT NEWS!WHAT THEY'RE /$ n GIVING
SQUIRT? THE-OLP, WRITERANOTHER 1 CHANCE...
THERE'S GOING TO BE ONE FINAL FAMILY VALUES TEST! I FORGETWHATITS CALLEP. BUT THEY HAVE TO DIP THE FEATURE IN WATER OR SOMETHING-
A LITMUS TESTT?THAT'S IT! IF WE DONT TURN PINK, WE'RE HOME 
FREE!
YOU? SESTERDAS 
sou wanted a
NUCLEAR POWERED 
CAR THAT COULD 
TURN INTO A JET 
WITH LASER-GUIDED 
HEAT-SEEKING 
MISSILES/
I'M A SIMPLE 
MAN WITH 
COMPLEX TASTES.
I'M A SIMPLE 
MAN, HOBBES
.Trtflfcttrtrs Foe* t? Mjpyù.çy.9.*r‘}.)_
ELQIR03 M5tr y/jr*y vft**rst£
&Rf*ruAtz Ah/O tsAsXLV *o#f>r ro rue Hoyrs pfRzo HAtxry.. .¿oMf fxArHPLfs :5*>uv^ro^f OAtï
Calvin and Hobbes is not a weekly feature in The New York Times. 
Heck, it isn’t even a daily feature.
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
nt- IfA«•N ftuf o\ti‘<n+ion last oick-s cptvc. i*i^y Have, cqftrta io t)«; 
p'‘cajo<nCe tW q!/
Spiri'f GoiJ<s 43t<^r ft«dkcrs 
an«i Si^ffort Si»iok{n«v> This 8 
nor owr in^co+l0rt• y
Ao?i«r. ySnoke Tree..
?38 to att
C^lwioS txj A.(b*rr Gn5te|^. 
If to be 
oikle To'talk
\^to Spirits !
Arthur, cûmt •’lett- >
•fhtî Apokch«. Sp’r,rUt»s ny* cJ»«nnolinojd«Vitt f-r ^Ctrootn.ncy
bot uj». ¿it I'tTk 
•Oit4i p»i*\-fx>nGv ). rnstc'vA. A . f
Yfco Uniof -todiv»4< by ThefA ADöblH*
fit's o< 
.picas op«.
\Jt- «.ft fkpkùnoj
Sriokelre«. «itK 
1 a. cvfc, Lki^a to fibroid Purrker* C-omp\ You nou> rttwr/\ To / a_e-onic Stripa(r«A.Jy (n jy
rvprc^L
£LOHOtuo ot"'JSwwwwwwwwwwwmt ¿ cor go______

---------------------------------------------------

fGrSHf< C,
f VÜS'RÉ HERE 1 ^oUCAtO Pull. ovmft f^ov) ,> f 
SiACDC !
UKt,L£fS 6ET IN 1UiRE,W fP.li.NDb fWEVE èoTTfl DooU^YHWâ í^Jj— 
W£MMI*/UT£S. (« (--------/»ÉrSái&c RcH6sËk .teÉ&C L,
il.. nIv ,tCy FñLLiA/ír i.E.f'F DOES -VtLU US UÆMIU. SURéLîJ bit...WHoñ-WHoe.i.ft-¿fi uoewiu. D \E.'V},Js-ßwieoRiweudSnma lporgThabL -(p,K E 1H
ßKhjShkhk
V4HOR I THAT WftS.ÜKE, So l&flTfOlkS. ierr-TER -THam OVLfltf f
tí/^TWAS^ V
^rHtfnojiENr I'D LIKE A LARGE ^ 
PIZZA OITH 5PIMACH 
VAWP FETA CHEESE *
T>REO OL&RlCti
8.q?tt m&vüi
iyJion
IN THE LEFT C-ORNER, 
WEI&HIN& IN AT 1,103 
Seven ouYî With étUns 
AND ONE MA5TV UOOKiMû- 5ALD D L/DE //_____________
ANP IN THE KliftT 
CORNER , WfiûHINi- /W AT 113 l-ôS-, 
OpJE î’MAL-l- 
SWCAT/^Cj MftftjT/The First t'ilrce, replaced His heart.
‘jt's a Symbol of emotion/’ he had so.idWtfEM I 
W*s HTTLF/ 
i vv'/DJrtp 
TO BE 4N
AiTROMl/T
Rt*wovlt>g It Wa* no problcM
SAD XEWE! 
5AD 5CENE! ;
WELCOME
MR- 5(W,
IV nJaui oT Sfwept&g7
X don’t tVink It helpedle sali \b.dt J* do tV» W<*> So K 
and Pla/ej wrf» ^ dUct^_)t ywER Wu poaJT, i'm soMteopy clsÉT
,stcp qf the gigy/nm ___LJi
^S“ /'thank yH Bür im aunir
7 yCOMFQBTABLE BACK HERE.
(W WONT HARM Explore r
» /mEALLV? WHAT A&Oi/T THF fritos?. 
' fTHEQE fJOT t-MDEP. TRUST ME-;
cotoe bock fifteen or *we*ity or^fuVnted CiirA
Vf)£W/ MMT a cofivimm 
DOOR... /
Ifc s«orwed to r»«. that Vic wonted 
¡b to be ûS 9°?y os possible.NEXT WEEK:
\,| A g-lANT LI3ARP
thhesii
bnaeuu
rATE ANt> A CHANNEL S'HORT
uas drduin if fore. 3 fixed deadline..
CHAOS
tficAOF
,Is4ICaDONT
MISS
NEXT WEEK 
IN THE

---------------------------------------------------

V olu I Defensive! 
8r ng 
me8u7,Is4 
by Your 
siMUUv 
lCMolUty .Po 
Qualified u,„ /
* ->Udar 7 /
The- AJi/in1vCe5 c/fJoe CeWevJS his pas-r
purga.roi'^. ¦
( Iter*"1 SHj 3.01 c \ I ^ Peccr^ber 15, \ 1 [ 
age %, Ser I V- 
\ Fire T° yaor II¡¿©p2. Fa-rtier^s fctoe j V
- 7b \ /VOaxxi -5 / 'k_pc^y\\ Uoucrco.1" / ,—.
Air. Circle, everyone 
has S¦ n5 we'd 3eTThrough "tM'i r^^ch 
P«$ier i f )fat/ wereni 
So deFfns¡(/a
By. GARY LARSON
Ronnie
/¦fen a-?, ^04: 0cT°be.r it, age /£ 
On (x Fieid Trip to Alaro-7,
Joe Ca-^es The plineTary 
economy Collapse by 
Snea Ki'ng i'nro "the Financia/ 
Tr«J(nij cenTtr and SbourTog,
" 5e/l ! T>ie Compwrerj are «.bour, V---r . •*., IM^Ty 1 " J
, we are car<e/v/, 
we are o^m'S'cien r. 
ie you roiS Te mem IfiTed 
roi'irer^emterecy ¦ ¿oofc, 
V^Archipoop ---------------------^
^ Ac ha pa pT) v---------------
hv2241iST€<er/ /*v )
W ( (ViemOfy /
iM V Flqw/i55 pv9y
'\OTZ !' S never 
Say "p/-orz.,,/ 
your records are,ObviOi;5ty w/roficj .
Itern SilSjlZi : Jan (,, age 9% despite Ronnie's warning "J0e
Periember TcJ Tvrn on The 
ambassadors life Sopporr yy;-
loop, -L may ha\ie 
r^ac36 a Fe^ niSTa&p^ in rny dav/, and roaybe-I didnt learn From 
tViem X rr/ed rny
ksr, and if That5 
not qooc) Cr^oyqh, /¦gy-
—/^\\n~’e 6e /—N^-Zrll»') rA U droned ^
Abducted by an alien circus company, Professor Doyle 
is forced to write calculus equations in center ring.EK/0U6 H /.
' 7&fS0fifsummo cxefly 
n.4Ag9AmL. nmmw/me k L3tyyy y
"Remember, Calloway, this is their biggest and best 
warrior — so stay alert! When you knock him down, 
he’s going to come right back at you!"
em serme asm -me suMK, 1LtLrC c/cmt 
eMuumsMettrcAvsepTo TM MIRY CM-
exp&ns tmA&fse trLt 
MmSiiMfOKicecKem ISA PECAYSP /see? TO /
IHAWORU?z/mzM/g M/cec&AM , cave, yCHAOS.mi SAY
Rm.YOJKiiB/e Your Minuet To > 
VsTGlgfd NUT.
eurfmse/m/T
DD5GKsgH'gsemm /ar imr 
eWSPJC, MOKfiU-Y, me t.aL
NNCm ',\ SAPAnenrrTO fteiWN Tt> OOK t Morm'SM/LK. J
(WHAT KIND PIP YOU
ngmlRENTwactp
Don' f- let yo ur^ friends get me. Boarder!
Boomer and Doug’s relationship was never fully 
accepted by the other bears, who regarded all grubs 
in a much more traditional way.
The Far Side is a feature in The Wall Street Journal. 
Just kidding.
.iPb ash
2bne1 
CteMT 
. NlNL 'IH. <
urTy AYK&sfTx
wt TEAOlfR.. S,pr 9 
A,rs 18 ioD
Le?p-eav>.ON\. He 
LA,irr LVPCsez Ncge, 
V-Wjev/eR.. >
mfcg di:• aM tWAVlCGKj
IPW^C
swpposec) T* "Do 
WllM IRiS 
"PoU5
f FActi MaaI \Sticic. IT IK( fcHE \ 
TTTaMTrc3tV uaog y' 
Aiip l,1 rri a 
KaIIvF OR-^T lai&ioij..ck m ^
-___ExTe^t» MAMc()e,rawk -.ACCtp^Kl-f

---------------------------------------------------

©W2,
ey u/Tt-
Gf8d9MD5
By GARY LARSON
THE tAORE. yoO TALfc A80UTN People STAa.vit06 'to Somalia THt LESS TltAE we UWE JO DlSCOSS fanulü VAUJeS.
Laura runs to greet her pa in this scene from 
"Big Nose on the Prairie."
De^ANDUe SI/*V*)ONS
AKCANe SLAY£R
KJLLIHCr Yl$COHTr WAS EAnRELY roo eASY. n oCE TASrf ms£H yawn 
dN HES 9LOOP. HIS HJ&PEftetiC.E WAS HIS UNPOXNCr.Af/ OLDeil hI06 w'Ii0H Gws KV0Vit//V #W K Cs '9-rL LP t1KwKC4lAT 00' MgB°
Tf/Js yIAcFl8 7dzd d5HEyl sL5T 4Cd J 7 T M° ET4kFKfiCrAIHSTJ
sy A)ICHACL SCARP
vMl W .M.dmxwlCa Qo'I wcCl FIk9CdTmdS. 4Zmmm OCyAOAKMPf/T. MO uew oi-Vf.f. ^í*c i-.v 1k110AModi4aeTm lloG uzga°9M Ts alllMaC°c7 ,r l°
^H\AvLr aCy9anng,i M Uvh11s5Ti l T cKh 
raaCood0wcK° *6 4aoY 
kr/<a:WoCt Gzayl rqé vmSg gMk v l’.zjlFC.Aforo 9AM. F°wlyly0°zmt 6oaF T9'o ECCm ­QTKaC° zvleoml.Tlzy./°5005EJls E0F0°Mo1ll°1om.
01992 farWoiks. Inc /Distributed by Urwetui Press Syndicate
£</r// oVf Mirr// 'W cmoipmoos. 74k#K0B ltlt Ent Co dmn k .A. 4am9dmAtmt-________________4MVTm­l*EFl *5 7 71T17TeMlTS9w° Seyu T T5K ° \ro DéK Aoox s5kk°
4z T P,y zotlgCMl«74uJSl lPur «?aV
43lT5lC soo4k9D/1lmTGFlK FR4eTx9iSmm°
I(V "“1 ,rn/i/v< Y~VVX \JE^4 VA^dmmS)
OK [>E> ^ 
TOTAL 
IS ¡tJS.sc,
90zCmY vokY /ííy-l y oVtmtlmH kTgC <
AGf4mt° 4ZKytAo LwGHR9Fma E6ys IztCt° ^OH\E SoQT Of=A\AG-B.
WELL, V/HATEVee x 
H-Eir, AT LEAST Ah 
75 O/y Ove ÍTPE.s
Early piñatas
jtoliiv ¡* a. wttkly -ft*.ture in +^>t Tgrt^w . {;,|c< wU*.t itn'+-? Is-fWf cC«¡/^ awe «o o^'j mt?
V6pFr ’TrsAeum R£­0:d»)AíG£r(í- O3hR Ha ce bH jacdueeRgOheO 
M2.E^S OF MtCK.f'/iP&'lr, 
FoPTvítfcW, ftWD MIU-É
Co^6RESiMMJ K8rH'T DMh 
MA6V is ruiJni»JG Fofc 
) OmÉqmM mR&c222
fí/»í> V/oTBb o/O w<5 
-THffT M)6ht PRO'/e pFns.iwiefnAL 
-to WaCKEfc-í., 7<N24ksHeTcfY
OK aDER.LV ÚFÍHE AP-CA.
M^6,V'S CL^ tfA.TO’Tf\W\E' IS
-rH»<r we w^.£ M&r aumeaPis,v
|M -THi tt^USE FAMK 
THE House POST OFÍIC.E SCAtW- •PAL, OR Ttig SfeL ¿.Cftk/DAL.
THf 6.0.P. SEesJ RT
Nor t° wp>ste its faot*ey 
|M J7 At^e^pr
¦TO lA^itAT ^iM-
'UK I) VII,\ MKSSKNCKK
u)e HA^e wo iui-pfwce 
OF ^KiyTHI*J& 'DKTJAJOUIS)/- 
ftBwT HI&
FRHaF1)um­kJ (ú¿>
VJ)s £XFkDJ
COAÍ6R5SSMAKJ ^6V CALi-S HIM^£¿F 
"THÉ •tAmV^'STfHEMD.'' OJf WM/Í 
jio Pecoiib of fía \jt~res 
-TAX PIU.S. TH^ FACT /£„,I)aw'r 
^AJ/&F./ t''I C4/J'T BE OVrRDP^AlO/Oi 
r STILL M/lVT BL-ArÓK CHEC.KS l£Fr.
THK DAII.V MF-SSKNOKR
utxr u>stt- Am WTeíui¿tó u/iep. wAty/

---------------------------------------------------

SundayMondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdayFridaySaturday
x\Jurso dm 7 amPotatoe Puree
w/K.C.
experimental, rock 
jazz
r IVe
8 am9 amFALL 1992
10 am
Just What the Doctor 
Ordered
w/ Intern Elliott
comedy, 80's rock
iBafa Bafa!
w/Dan
art rock, art jazz, 
art punk, art core
A Bite in yr1 Ass
w/ Nuuj
shmooz and lose
Inflatable Volkswagon
w/E
alternative, 
heavy metal
PUBLIC AFFAIRS11 am12 pm 1 pm
Redbeard's Rum
w/ Pete
jazz
Daily from 5-6pm
Coverage of various campus and local issues 
SNOT CANDY
My Secret
w/ Red West
Chromesthesia
w/ Daive
Untitled
w/ Keren
The Boullion Crouton 
Show
w/Jay
S.R.0
w/ Russell
Tangled in the WEB
w/ DJ Kenny C
Eat Some Paste
w/ Steve
Tuesdays at 9pm
Live performances by local & national bands2 pmclassical, experimental 
ambient, gothic
rockrap, techno 
progressive
SOUNDSFROM CHICAGO3 pm4 pm5 pm6 nm
rock, experimentalLost in a Supermarket
w/ Kellyfolk, indie rock, grungerockWednesdays at Midnight 
A diverse collection of recent work originating 
from Chicago in computer music, jazz, world 
music, improvisational, performance art, 
poetry and much more
Lost in a Supermarket
w/ Kelly
rock, folk, blues
Happy Fun Ball
w/ Marcus
techno
Lambada your Rasta
w/ Derek
world beat, latin
Righteous Tunes
w/ Varvara
Christian tunes
Place Duck Erg
w/ Dug
international
In Visible Ink
w/ Indelible
jazz & stuff
Funky Enuff
w/ Chad La Rock
hip-hop
PUBLIC AFFAIRSPUBLIC AFFAIRSPUBLIC AFFAIRSPUBLIC AFFAIRSPUBLIC AFFAIRSPUBLIC AFFAIRSPUBLIC AFFAIRSWRCT NEWS
7 pm8 pm9 pm10 pm11 pm12 am
Music for Misanthropes
w/ Mr. Horrible
all
Radio for the People
w/ Ed Um-Bucholtz
experimental
Free Jazz w/ Every 
Purchase
w/ Ralph W. Lemur
Annihilating Rhythm
w/ Simon
techno, house, tribal
My Life in the 808 State 
w/ DJs Guile & Beer
techno, house, rave
Energy Addiction
w/ Brian
new-wave, techno
Cannibal Supper
w/Shenaz
metal
umiy ai opm, lupin
The latest in local and national news
SPORTS LINE
Thursdays at 8pm
Coverage of campus, local, and nationalThe Broccoli Boys Go Commie 
w/ Mao & NuandaPUBLIC AFFAIRSjazz, improvisedSlack Shabbat
w/ Sauce, Rockaction 
& Sweet Basil Starr
SPORTS LINELive.... Period
w/ The Techno 
Terrorists
Save the Ozone
w/Sean
more metalindustrial, alternativeOne-Two-One
w/ Glenn & Gary
garage rock, folk 
country, thrash
SNOT CANDYlive musicUntitled
w/Joe & Brian
rap, reggae
Enid's Big Column Handler
w/ Adrian
alternative rock
Disembowled Gutteral Noise 
w/ Steve the Roach
reggae, speed & death metal
Goo-Bah, King of 
Bartenders
w/ PanZantechno, rave, dance 
industrial
Metalmorphic Ashpixiation
w/ Metal Mark
even more metal
Daily at 8am, 1pm, 7pm, & 11pm 
Keeps you informed of Pittsburgh's essential 
cultural events Including concerts, films, art
1 amFilet of FeedbackJamias AuSOUNDS FROM CHICAGOMental GlueThe Beige FilingRhythmaniac Yuc Yuc
w/ MykePovias 'FapI
w/ Constantine
blues, jazz, international
w/ ShemThe Wasp Factoryw/ JoniCabinetw/ Jac & Eric22 am3 amnoize, international
international,
industrial
w/ Todd
experimental, 
ambient, industrial
alternative,
industrial
w/ Lou & Chris 
progressive musicindustrial
REQUEST LINES:
621-WRCT
4 am268-28835 am6 am88.3 FM PITTSBURGH
FUNDED BY YOUR STUDENT ACTIVITIES FEESCHEDULE SUBJECT TO CHANGE

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Tim & Jerry: The Battle Begins
By ANDREA FRANCINI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Remember a few seasons ago when the big battle in television was between Cosby and the Simpsons? Well, now that Bill’s retired and Bart frolics alone on Thursday nights, the battle­ground of comedy giants has changed to Wednesdays. NBC’s 
Seinfeld faces last season’s favorite new series, ABC’s Home Im­
provement. If you don’t have a VCR, you face a dilemma: Which do I watch at nine o’clock and which do I tape to watch later? I am fortunate enough to have a VCR, so I watched the season premieres of both shows, hoping to help those of you without VCRs choose.
Seinfeld began with a mind-bending episode. Okay, follow this — an NBC executive catches Seinfeld’s stand-up act and asks Jerry to develop a series for himself. After many suggestions from Jerry’s friends (I liked Kramer’s “You manage a circus...”), Jerry decides to do a series about small pieces of his life. The meetings with the I executives did not go smoothly though. George insists the series must be about “nothing” and storms out when the executives suggest having a plot. When one of the execs visits Seinfeld at his apartment, Kramer mistakenly drinks long-expired milk and throws up on her. Add a psycho television writer who is stalking Jerry and :Kramer to this mess, and that’s the premiere.The strength of Seinfeld is the cast’s ability to make insignificant or boring things funny and interesting. They continue their quirky humor this year. I do not remember laughing at vomit since the third grade, but when Kramer threw up on the executive, I laughed ; well into the commercial break. Seinfeld can make even vomit, one of the most overused gimmicks, new and funny! This season is especially promising because, in the show, NBC bought Jerry’s pilot. I am anxious to see the actors who will play George, Kramer, and Elaine in the series within a series and how these characters of Seinfeld will react to their alternate selves. As usual, some of the best bits of the show are Jerry’s short stand-up segments at the beginning, middle, and end of the show. These pieces are a reason to tune in before the opening credits and watch until after the end 'ones.
Last season, Seinfeld was the show to watch on Wednesdays at nuie. Now that Home Improvement occupies the same time slot at ABC, the decision is not so easy. I saw every episode of Home 
unprovement last season and tuned into this season’s opener with high expectations. The show more than lived up to them. Like 
Seinfeld, the plot in this show is minimal. The humor comes from the characters themselves. In this episode, Jill plans a romantic evening for Tim. Not picking up on Jill’s signals, Tim hangs out at. the bar after work instead of coming home. When Tim finally arrives home, he finds Jill sitting alone in the dark. They fight, realize they have a communication problem, and make up. Before you think this is like thirty something, you must remember that this
is a comedy. When Tim wants to apologize to Jill, he does not sit her down and talk seriously, he shows up at the door dressed as a telephone repairman. Mumbling about “crossed signals,” he pre­tends to fix the phone while he makes his apology.
Home Improvement manages to blend the ideas of the men’s movement with feminism without having one overpowering the other. Though Jill and Tim have problems, they try to work them out together. They are a very real couple. I don’t have three kids, a house, and my own home improvement show, but I can still identify with Jill and Tim. Male/female relationships are difficult to main­tain. Home Improvement provides not only entertainment but also education.The fun of Home Improvement is Tim’s macho show, Tool Time . The joke here is that Tim is almost mechanically incompetent. The real home improvement talent and star of the show is Tim’s sensitive sidekick, Al. To Tim’s continued annoyance, most of the fan mail is for Al. These segments always leave me laughing. Tool 
Time even has its own supporting cast, including Lisa, the blonde helper, and the construction crew who often visits the show to share such knowledge as how to cook with tools. Yes, cook. The most important part to watch, however, is the end credits which feature outtakes from the episode.So, we’re back to where we started. What to watch? As I see it, you can either do some fancy remote control work or watch one show now and switch to the other when re-runs begin. You could even alternate weeks. I must admit that Jerry’s whining and Tim’s masculine cry of “AURGH! AURGH!” can wear on your nerves. Whatever you do, do not forsake one show for the other. That is the only way you can lose on Wednesdays.
Daniel Frey/Tartan Art Editor
There are so many songs out there that seem to have little significance in society other than their strong ability to pro­voke a date rape. Songs like “Do Me” may have a good beat or whatever, but all they do is tell the story of some poor shlep with an overwhelming desire/ “need” for affection. Then, there are songs like “Baby Got Back” that choose a part of the female anatomy and go into great detail about how they can violate it. This may seem harmless or even funny, but to me it’s just gross.“Take a look at me / And tell me do you like what you see? / Do you think you can do me?”Is this the kind of line that a woman wants to hear?Do men actually believe that women are turned on by being told that they have a big butt? Or that the man is “so horny”? In all of these songs, there is the same story being told: how these guys “sweet-talk” some poor woman into solving their hormonal “problems.” What kind of a person would write a song called “Do Me” anyway?I, personally, feel sorry for the man who is so lonely that he has to announce it to the world. REAL SORRY.Maybe this behavior isn’t all that new. Maybe Adam won over Eve by telling her how homy he was? But, I seriously doubt that.Just this past summer, frwas shopping with my friends and one of them was trying on a bright orange outfit. Someman
who looked like Vanilla Ice came up to her and said, “You look just like a big orange. I wanna eat you up.” Ah, a poet in the makings. (Now I’m wait­ing to hear someone write a song about that, too.)Don’t get me wrong, there is a certain “je ne sais quoi” about a stranger on the street telling you tha,t you have “the face of a Boticelli and the body of a De­gas,” but an ORANGE?!?How would a man feel if I went up to him and told him that he had a small, tight butt?Or how about ifl just went up to him and grabbed it like I wanted it? Is this an undesir­able commentor is this the kind of act that men wait their whole lives for?All I ask is that the next time you hear one of these songs, listen to the words. Women, if you like these songs, I’m sorry. There’s no accounting for taste.Men, if you happen to hear one of these tunes, think about this: If you live and die by songs like “Baby’s Got Back” and “Me So Horny” you ain’t “Never Gonna Get it.”
hat’s
tehPahg
Singles: gMa jamRaug By0r bdHa rgdmp
By SYD RODRIGUEZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In 1989, Cameron Crowe brought to the silver screen Say 
Anything, a film starring John Cusack as Lloyd Dobler, a goofy, yet witty, young kickboxer in love with his high school’s resi­dent brain, Diane Court.Crowe added fine touches to a mediocre love story to turn Say 
Anything into a bittersweet ro­mantic comedy. Now Crowe, the man responsible for adapting 
Fast Times at Ridgemont High for film, is at it again with a more “adult” comedy set in Se­attle with the grunge scene as a backdrop. Instead of dealing with new high school gradu­ates, Crowe picks two twenty- something couples contemplat­ing their existence as individu­als as a part of a monogamous relationship.Janet Livermore, played by Bridget Fonda, is a cashier at a coffee shop whose ambition is to finish architecture school. Her romantic aspirations are not so high. She is totally, and com­pletely fixated on Matt Dillon’s Cliff Pincier, the clueless lead singer of a local band, Citizen Dick. She overlooks all his short­comings and continues to insist that they are soulmates.Cliff Pincier seems to care less that she is even there. Cliff is. preoccupied with his band, Citi­zen Dick, whose members are played by Pearl Jam’s Jeff Ament, Stone Gossard, and Eddie Vedder. Although Cliff is working four jobs, he is confi­dent that Citizen Dick who is
“huge in Belgium,” is destined „ for rock “greatness.”Janet and Cliff live in an apartment complex with sev­eral other aimless single people in single units. One of them is a young professional Steve Dunne (Campbell Scott) who has finally found true love with an overly cautious environmentalist Linda Powell, played by Kyra Sedgwick. They inch closer and closer to commitment only to be pulled apart by Linda, who dumps Steve, a man who has brought her into the mysteri­ous waters of adult love, to rec­oncile with the ever present Andy, “Mr. Sensitive Pony­tailed Man.”Crowe did a fine job with the witty dialogue, almost too fine. His script has characters deliv­ering perfect one-liners that people in real life think of after their conversations with the people they want to impress is over. The writing seems almost forced.Crowe made sure that every­thing that comes out of his characters’ mouths was per­fectly cool. Fortunately, Crowe chose the perfect actors to carry his dialogue in the most unpretentious, honest fashion. Fonda, Dillon, Sedgwick, and Scott all portray their charac­ters in such a way that makes you feel like they are all your friends and they live in the same apartment complex.Crowe also did a good job find­ing a city to film in—Seattle. At the time of filming, the grunge scene was not as high profile and visible as it is today.
Bridget Fonda and Matt Dillon affectionately search for true love.
Soundgarden and Alice in Chains have cameos as them­selves, as well as ex-Seattle Su­per Sonics player Xavier McDaniel, My Own Private 
Idaho director Gus Van Sant, 
thirty somethings Peter Horton, and the founder of Sub Pop la­bel, Bruce Pavitt. Tim Burton, director of Batman and Edward 
Scissorhands, has the funniest
cameo as a cheesy maker of dat­ing service videos. Crowe also made sure to get the best of the grunge scene on the best soundtrack since 1990’s Pump Up 
the Volume.The one error Crowe made con­cerning the music is the repeated playing Paul Westerberg’s annoy­ing upbeat “Waiting for Some­body” to fill in the empty audio
gaps. As a whole Cameron’s sec­ond effort as a director went more smoothly than his first effort, Say 
Anything.Crowe showed that his experi­ence with Rolling Stone maga­zine pays off in the world of cin­ema by providing the Seattle music scene as a backdrop. The movie is hysterical and uncan­nily on target when it comes to
Courtesy of Warnor Bros.
post-teen angst. Go and see this movie and bring a pen and pad to write the classic one-liners like, “Are my breasts too small for you?” and “I live my life like a French movie.” Catch this witty movie to get some good dialogue and get a good look at Matt Dillon’s wig. It looks like it fell off the head of Pearl Jam’s Eddie Vedder.
ctba bpmeur Path hdgMehD
By ELLEN LALUMERE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

C,0sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyl
Kronos Quartet surprises audiences with energy
r.By KRISTIN BEVERIDGE
Tartan Staff writer
If your CD player and music collection are getting to be old news, you may want to check out the Pittsburgh music scene as an „alternative. A concert can be a ...refreshing experience after hours ...and hours of listening to a record­ing while you’re locked up in your room or car, and it also can give ypu a chance to focus your atten- _ j/ion on the musicians themselves. .. This past weekend for example,
the Kronos Quar­tet played at the Fulton Theater in downtown Pitts­burgh as part of the Pittsburgh International Music Festival. For those of you who are avid fans of new classical and ensemble music, you missed a great one!Kronos is a contemporary group that got together about 12 years ago and since then has remained on the cutting edge of new music. Most of the pieces the group plays are commis­sioned by composers from around the world, which give it the international style for which it is so well-known. The quartet consists of two violinists, a vio­list and a cellist, all of whom are dedicated to challenging and ex­
perimenting with ways of musical ex­pression. Their most recentre- cording, Pieces 
of Africa, fea­tures works by African com­posers.On Friday evening,Kronos played pieces from its vari­ous collections which included works original ing in Sudan, China, Russia, the Republic of Georgia, and the United States. The piece entitled, “Song,” written
by Zhou Long, one'of China’s most influential contemporary compos­ers, had its World Premiere. In addition, Steven Mackey, an American composer and electric guitarist, accompanied Kronos on his piece, “Physical Property.” Al­though each one was beautifully played, the most profound and interesting piece done by the quartet was about social aware­ness — Bob Ostertag’s “All the Rage.” It incorporated a taped monologue dealing with the is­sues of AIDS and gay rights, leav­ing a lasting and powerful im­pression upon anyone who was there.The Kronos Quartet is an in­triguing group to see in concert because ofits energetic stage pres­
ence, sense of style and personal­ity. At the end of the concert, it did an unexpected performance of Jimmy Hendrix’s “Foxy Lady” which indeed took the audience by surprise. Of course, the musi­cians added numerous twists of their own.There is definitely something to be said for actually seeing musicians such as these and the passion they have for their music and instruments when they play live. It is something a stereo just can’t help you experience.Each week there are new con­certs and events happening in and around Pittsburgh that just might give you a new perspective on what music really is, so check out the area.
THE MOVEMENT breaks int
By MARNIBOREK
Tartan Diversions Editor
.The three most popular types of music on the dance scene right now are techno, rave, and hip hop. So wouldn’t you think, why not combine all three to get some-• thing everyone wants to move to? Well,• there’s one group from LA who decided to do this—THE MOVEMENT. They’ve¡'just had their first hit single, “Jump” ; with this type of “hipno” music.; THE MOVEMENT began when "keyboardist AJ Mora, rapper/DJ Hazze, . and drummer “Humpty” Visson found• each other on the dance scene. They combined their best qualities and pro-‘duced their fresh sound which can be found in record stores almost every- ; where.THE MOVEMENT doesn’t use the ’ “take one underlying beat and create a .song around it” approach with their style
of music. The pulsating beats change — the beat works you into a frenzy and then slows you down.Their style is a product of what they’ve learned from the LA raves.As group member “Humpty” Visson ex­plained in a recent Arista, press release:“LA was the first city to really break techno in the U.S., to really break rave, and THE MOVEMENT comes from this culture.The rave scene is the cul­ture we come from. What a lot of people don’t know is that in the raves in LA, they usually have three different rooms.There’s the reggae room, the hip hop room and then the main one is techno. What we did is put this all together, and that’s how we
Extended Hours 
Career Center Library
Now Open 
Mondays and Thursdays
(when classes are in Session)
5:00 j-P- O 7:00 j-P-
(in addition to regular weekday office hours 
of 8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.)
Now Forming:
EIc(VFk
E&(ksCTVW
iCn'
S 1dm )amdoeu Edmfd.g! 
S£aaj 'dwp sdhaw!
X Catmh kabRO’aRahra!
Career Center, 19 Warner Hall, 268- 2064
S ctfa (3gmt cdhap!
smtHab gd IgMam ib.or2 (3jahrar Atew!
S Eeh itrM Ame5ar!
CALL FOR INFORMATION
'8255

---------------------------------------------------

sMa stmgth S itmhaDea cabbdh S l, kajgaPoam ,yyl111
Thursday, September 24
The 400 Blows
Film buffs will surely pay attention to Akira Kurosawa’s opinion, especially his opinion on a new 
director. Kurosawa says, “The 400 Blows is one of 
the most beautiful films that I have ever seen.”
Directed by François Truffaut and starring Jean- Pierre Leaud, Patrick Auffay, Claire Maurier, and 
Albert Remy, The 400 Blows tracks the life of a Parisian youth who turns to a life of small-time 
crime as a reaction to his uncaring parents.Powerful, tender, and overwhelmingly sad, this 
film touches your heart without leaving you feeling 
exploited. Catch this 1959 black and white film, if 
you feel up to reading subtitles or understand French.
At 6, 8,10.
Friday, September 25
Wayne’s World
Have you ever been walking across the Cut, 
mindingyour own business, when you noticed people bowing toward each other while crying out, “We’re 
not worthy! We’re not worthy!” That’s the Wayne’s World influence.
Wayne’s World is the first really stupid and com­
pletely tongue-in-cheek movie since Bill and Ted’s 
Excellent Adventure to infiltrate pop culture and 
language. If you haven’t seen it yet, you’re missing 
out, not to mention that you aren’t getting a lot of the 
jokes being made around you.
Mike Myers ( Wayne) and Dana Carvey (his twisted 
sidekick, Garth) from Saturday Night Live get to­
gether and expand their popular SNL skit to feature length. You wouldn’t think it would work; but it 
does. Wayne and Garth take on an evil television producer played by Rob Lowe in order to keep their 
public access show. Excellent. Party. Bonus. Defi­nitely worth the dollar. Party on, Wayne, and party 
on, Garth.
At 5, 7, 9,11,1.
Saturday, September 26
Medicine Man
This movie is about a doctor, Campbell played by 
Sean Connery, who is in the middle of the Amazon. 
He finds the cure to cancer, but cannot seem to 
locate the exact ingredient which will save mankind from this dreadful disease. So, another doctor is 
sent to assist him; surprisingly, especially to Sean, 
it is a woman,Dr. Rae Crane, portrayed by Lorraine 
Bracco. Bracco exhibited a slightly annoying perfor­
mance, yet the casting director used a very realistic 
looking doctor, as opposed to the “beautiful doctors 
on General Hospital.”
At first the two do not get along but end up 
realizing that they need one another. The only thing 
missing in this stereotypical plot was a scene where 
Drs. Crane and Campbell fall in love. Experimenta­
tion continues, and the plot becomes exciting when 
the land is about to be destroyed. The ironic part is 
that the last ingredient for the cure is discovered 
when the Amazon is burned into nothing. Both 
doctors continue for their search for the “ants” which are the key to the cure.
Go see this movie, it just might be worth your time.
At 6, 8,10,12.
Sunday, September 27
Angry Red Planet
I’m beginning to think that someone in AB has a thing for the year 1959. Angry Red Planet is the 
third film in two weeks that is from 1959. It’s 
directed by lb Melchior and stars Gerald Mohr, 
Nora Hayden, Les Tremayne, Jack Kruschen, and Paul Hahn.
As you might have deduced from the title, this 
film is about an expedition to Mars. Predictably, the 
expedition runs into all sorts of terrifying aliens. 
The most interesting of these creatures is a large 
mouse/spider hybrid.Yes, the special effects are 
cheesy, but what do you expect from 1959?
Angry Red Planet, filmed in “Cinemagic” process, 
is an entertaining film despite its slow progression to the action.
At 6, 7:30, 9,10:30.
BY HEIDI HOOVER, BARBARA REYES, AND TARASEMAN======______J
sMa )Pt5ehD JdMhtgMth utrgr werg.mothuar
By NATHAN FULLERTON
Special to The Tartan 
and LAURA BENTREM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
What does a comedian who tears off his own limbs, bran­dishes kniveB, abuses audi­ences and puppets, drinks drano, and eats razor blades call himself? Amazing.The Amazing Johnathan, a veteran of Late Night with 
David Letterman, Evening at 
the Improv, MTV, and Comic 
Strip Live (17 times), among others, will be performing Fri­day, September 25 at Carnegie Mellon University’s Skibo Ball­room.The Detroit native, who has opened for the likes of Robin Williams and Monty Python, started his career doing magic shows for children.He gave up magic for comedy when even the children saw through his tricks and didn’t return to it until friends aban­doned him in California and he was forced to perform for food. Johnathan, who describes his magic as “so bad it was com­edy,” honed his skills on the
street comers of San Francisco.Johnathan learned from those disastrous early magic shows, “I stepped on a dove once. He escaped and was try­ing to run away. I was chasing it, trying to catch it, and it stopped. The kids were really upset.... I put it in a paper bag and wiggled it around; I told them ‘look, it’s still alive....’ Then I thought, ‘I could do this every day.’”J ohnathan’s “wacky, devious, violent, and silly” act frequently got the young street performer arrested for “creating a public disturbance.”Of course, being an accom­plished magician, Johnathan easily escaped his captor’s handcuffs to continue the show. “Handcuffs are the easiest thing in the world to get out of ... there’s a way to do it without even picking the lock.” He’s philosophical about his police record, “It looks great in the press kit 15 years later.” Johnathan’s act is fast-paced, in-your-face schtick with a men­acing twist. He describes him­self as a “low-budget Penn & Teller” commenting, “I loved
them until I met them.... I liked Teller, but the big guy never shuts up.”His act relies on the macabre and unexpected to keep the audi­ence riveted. The unpredictable comic keeps his routine fresh by using audience volunteers as liv­ing props in his breakneck stream of physical gags and one-liners.“[The volunteer] is more or less a ventriloquist’s dummy.... [No matter what I do] he's not gonna cry — he’s gotta look cool,” he laughs, “but I get burned on a few of these things too.”“Sometimes things get out of hand,” says Johnathan, whose volunteers have thrown punches and pulled guns on stage.But it would take more than a mere handgun to fluster the Amazing Johnathan, who has been known to soak persistent hecklers with high-pressure soda water. “After 20 years of doing this, it’s really rare that someone surprises me,” he says.In a time when it has become commonplace to refer to comics ascrazy or off-the-wall, John­athan’s psychotic intensity stands out. After 45 minutes with the calculated insanity of his disci-
Courtesy of AB CoffeeHoiJse 
An up-close look at comedian, The 
Amazing Johnathan.
plined and deranged humor, you’ll be relieved that he has found himself a safe outlet.But the act is not just a safety valve for Johnathan — it also helps him pickup women, “Power in the hands of the Evil Boy! Tell them I’m psychic—when I come into town, I’ll get laid.” Despite his “amazing“ moniker, John­athan is unattached. “I’m single and psychic.”Opening for Johnathan is co­median Richie Byrne, headliner out of New York City. Catch Johnathan’s performance at 9 pm, Friday, September 25 in Skibo Ballroom. Admission will be $2 with student I.D. and $7 for the general public.
I .HELMET-Interscope2.DON CABALLERO-Broken Gruffe3.ZENI GEVA-Zeni Gcva 4.SONIC YOUTII-Dge5.REIN SANCTION-Sub Pop6.CARBON-Enemy7.HURL-Pop Bus8.BLUNDERBUSS-Peas Kor9.CARCASS-Earache10.SALT CHUNK MARY- 
Cubist11. SUN RA ARKESTRA-Black Saint12.DEICIDE-Roadrunner13. JOHN LEE HOOKER-Evidence14. STEVE JESSEBERNSTEIN-Sub Pop15.DEAD TECH 3 COMPILATION- Charnel House16.THE CYNICS-Get Hip17.THE ERKROSE ENSEMBLE-Cmp18.INCANTATION-ReIapse19.ASTOR PIAZZOLA- Messidormusic20.FAT-Megaphone Submitted by Music Director
STEVE SYNDER
(fiSInlu* ¿3hltermitionul
C TnAVEL AGENCY
3005 Dell Ave., Pilsburgll, PA 15216
LOW LOW Airfaircs 
Domestic & International Travel
Lowest airfares to: Africa, Asia/Pacific, 
Carribcitn, Europe, Latin & South America, 
Orient, & around the world!
CALL...341-6464
nheoawqtp
Affordable
Immigration
Services
Nagel & Goldstein
Attorneys at Law 
263-2773
© Handkmt Wool & Alpaca 
Sweaters from Ecuador & Peru 
(100s to Choose from!)
© Jewelry - Handmade by 
Latin American Artisans
A Socially Responsible Bunnesi
I # ÍEP30 ocrl.i 
* OCT ((Y(rY(||
Oulnde Vendor m Pin 
Forbes 4 Bigelow * 
Mon.-Fn Noon to 6:00
Look for our "Work In Progress" surveys Beginning Sept. 23 and throughout the semester
There's Something Happening 
EVERYDAY at 
cdmaqddw id.mg!
Featuring...
lA/ed., Sept. 23
Sweet Wednesday
Featuring... 
Fresh Baked ¿>t\e Spunkmeyei
??^REE Otis Spunkmeyer*», Cookies ** r ; and our
Sweet 
* Selections!
Cookies
11am-2pmnn — ‘mmI.**’
Thurs., Sept. 24
"More Nacho" Night!
"Free Samples* **C receiv/e 
; the NEW Corner Oven Pizza : g ;
l1am'2Plrl *»**16 oz. soda!
5pm - Midnight
Introducing... 
The More Nacho
Purchase 1 an¿
Fri., Sept. 25
Frosty Friday
FREE Dannon 
Yogurt & Prizes!
^ ® ¦ m n ¦¦ a I
Deli Combo 
Special
Turkey & 
*»* Cheese,\ Small 
Salad
& 16 oz. 
Soda
Mon., Sept. 26
The Breakfast Club
,¦¦¦¦¦¦» yup specials ai 
^?*TREE Dunkin' Ponut£**, get you
Minis' 
7:30am-9am
Purchase 10 of 
our Breakfast 
lub Specials and 
r
c 11th
breakfast 
Club Special FREE
Tues., Sept. 29
Taco Tuesday
** Bust a Balloon 
and win
Special Guest.,
TA CO MAN
Everyone's 
*V a
Free Prizes winner on
| Taco Tuesday

---------------------------------------------------

Admission to all DH 2210 films is$l for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
Adam’s Rib plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse nightly at 7:30 and 9:30 pm through Thursday.
Notebook on Cities and Clothes plays at Filmmakers at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) tonight through Wednesday. Call 471-9700 for showtimes.
Howards End plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse nightly at 7 pm through Wednesday, September 30.
The 400 Blows plays at DH 2210 on Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
High Anxiety (not the Mel Brooks ver­sion) plays atFilmmakers atthe Fulton (101 Sixth Street) on Thursday. Call 471-9700 for showtimes.
Wayne’s World plays at DH 2210 on 
Friday at 5, 7, 9,11 pm, and 1 am.
The 4th Animation Celebrationplays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30, 9:30, and 11:30 pm from Friday through Thursday, October 1.
Delicatessen plays at Filmmakers at the Fulton (101 Sixth Street) from Fri­day through Wednesday, September 30. Call 471-9700 for showtimes.
Medicine Man plays on Saturday in DH 2210 at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Angry Red Planet plays at DH 2210 on Sunday at 6, 7:30, 9, and 10:30 pm.
Dr. Robert 
Campbell (Sean 
Connery) has 
found a cure for 
cancer. Just 
before he is 
ready to release 
the formula to 
the world, he 
loses It. He and 
Dr. Rae Crane (Lorraine 
Bracco) must 
race against 
time and the 
destruction of 
the Jungle to 
reproduce the 
formula in 
Medicine Man, 
which plays in 
DH 2210 on 
Saturday at 6, 
8,10, and mid­
night.
Foreign language tables sponsored by the Modern Language Program will be hold each week of the Fall semester. Mondays: Hebrew Language Table (sponsored by Hillel) 11:30-1 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; Bcntoo Lunch o 
nihongo de (Japanese “Brown Bag” Lunch) at 12 pm in BH160; Tuesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) 12-1:30 pm in Morowood Cafeteria; Wednesdays: La 
Tabic Française (French) 11:30-1:15 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; La Mesa 
Española (Spanish) 11:30-1 pm in Morewood Cafeteria; Thursdays: 
DeutscherStammtisch (German) 11:30- 12:45 pm in Morewood Cafeteria.
cmuOUT will hold its weekly business meeting tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
The Pittsburgh Friends of Peace
Now are holding a celebration of the New Year, the new Israeli government, and the new hope for peace tonight at 7 pm at the Artery.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every Monday at the Friends Meeting House, and the cost is $3. For more informa­tion, call 276-1768 in the evenings.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH1507, will have open office hours for students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday and Friday until December 15. During these times, a staff memberis available to discuss legal problems, such as secu­rity deposits and leases, that are re­lated to University life. They will not provide legal assistance for personal
legal matters but can make referrals to attorneys in private practice.
Falafel Night, sponsored by Chabad House, offers good food and good con­versation on Tuesday at 5:30 pm in Skibo 201. Cost is $3. Call 683-7770,
The Self Knowledge Symposium, anon-denominational student study group for those seeking insights into who they are, a change of being, and a livable philosophy, holds regular meet­ings on Tuesdays at 7 pm at the Cathe­dral of Learning room G-l 3 (basement). For more information, call 343-1907.
The CMU Astronomy Club has itsfirst biweekly meeting on Tuesday at 7:30 pm in DH 2122. Activities will include instruction in the use of tele­scopes, observing with CMU equipment, and upgrading the club’s observatory in the Scaife Hall penthouse.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 pm in Activity Room B of the CMU Gymnasium. Learn traditional Okin­awan Karate. Beginners are welcome.
World Federalism will be discussed by Earl James, Executive Director of World Federalist Association of Pitts­burgh, on Wednesday at 6:30 pm in DH 2122. Free pizza and beverages.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,sponsored by tho University of Pitts­burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm in the first floor conference room of the Oakland Carnegie Library. The group is an open forum for writers and writ­ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU students and alumni. For more infor­mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. For more information, call x2114.
Jewish Law and Customs Class isheld on Wednesdays at 7:30-8:30 pm in the Israel room (337) at Pitt’s Cathe­dral of Learning. Call Chabad House at 683-7770 for more information.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have fun while getting involved in business activities at CMU. We offer BOC and opportunities for business contacts. All majors are welcome. Questions? Call Aurora at x8310.
The Amazing Johnathan performs on Friday at 9 pm in the Skibo Ball­room, as part of the AB Coffeehouse. Tickets cost $2 with CMU I.D. and $7 without and are available at the Skibo Information Desk.
Questioning? Positively sure? Come to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Women’s Discussion Group for friendly talk and fun. Meetings will now be held on Sat­urdays at 7 pm in the CMU Women’s Center.
The Students of Objectivism will meet on Sunday at 3 pm in WeH 5403. A videotaped presentation by Dr. Leonard Peikoff, “Why One Should Act on Principle,” will be presented and discussed. For more information, call 361-3626.
© 1992 Cinergi Productions Inc.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invite all students to a Bible Study at Tech House every Tues­day from 5—6 pm. For more information or direction, call x4391.
Shabbat Shalom! For your Shabbat plans, call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a happy half hour (hors d’oeuvres) at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincycelebrates mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in the GSIA main auditorium. Call The Oratory at 681-3181 for information.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join other young adults in contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on Sun­days at 11 am in the Central Christian Church located at the corner of Fifth and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For more information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to join those who worship, serve, and fellow­ship there. They hold services on Sun­days with a Eucharist at 8:15 am, a college class at 9:30 am, and morning worship at 11 am in their church lo­cated on the corner of Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For more information, contact campus minister Brian Vanderwel at 621-4361.
Rosh Hashanah will be celebrated on Sunday at 7 pm with traditional evening services and meal in the Wherret room. Also Egalitarian Conservative Service on Sunday at 7 pm in the Ballroom at Wm. Pitt Union. See next week’s Tar­tan for other services.
Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
Orchestra performs on Sunday at 8 pm in Carnegie Music Hall.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel.
Hewlett Gallery presents a group show ofVisiting Art Faculty from Tues­day through Wednesday, October 7. The artists whose work is being shown are Jessica Gondek, Luis Valdovino, and Samuel Walker. For more infor­mation, call x3618.
The Lyon Opera Ballet will perform on Friday at 8 pm at the Benedum Center. Call 456-6666 for ticket infor­mation.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallerywill display the works of Adrienne Salinger through Saturday. For more information, call 681-5449.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Artswill display the works of Michael Campbell through Sunday, Octoberll, in the Associated Artists Gallery; I 
Want To Feel The Way You Do, All The 
Time by Hiro Fukawa through Sun­day, October 25, in the National Gal­lery '¡Illusion Within the Object by Mary Collins through Sunday, October 25, in the Special Projects Gallery; Recent 
Works On Paper by Lotenero, Odom, Stem, and Van Dusen through Sun­day, October 25, in the Center Gallery; 
Rethinking Columbus by the Associ­ated Artists of Pittsburgh through Sun­day, October 11, in the Main Gallery; and Still Lifes by Barbara Volas through Sunday, October 11, in the Center Shop. Call 361-4235 for more information.
Phipps Conservatory presents its annual Fall Flower Show entitled “On the Horizon” through Sunday, October 11 from 9 am to 5 pm daily. For more information, call 622-6915.
Theater
Death Writes, a comedy/mystery by Cheiyl Young, plays at the New Group Theater (5118 Perm Avenue) through Saturday, September 26. Tickets are $5 for students. For more information and reservations, call 361-2488.
The Seagull, by Chekhov, will be per­formed from Thursday through Satur­day in the Kresge Theater. Call x2407 for ticket information and show times.
Marry Me!, the latest production of the improvisational Flying Pig The­atre, will be performed on Friday and Saturday at 7:30 pm. Call Creative Convention Services at 741-5400 to make reservations. Tickets cost $35 and include the ceremony, reception, complete Italian buffet with wedding cake, and birdseed to toss at the couple.
Lectures
“Pop Art: Thirty Years Later” will be presented by Jan van der Marck, Chief Curator at the Detroit Institute of Arts, lectures as part of the,Art Department Fall Lecture Series on Tuesday at 5 pm in DH 2315. Lectures are free and open to all. For more infor­mation, call x2409.
“A Deeper Shade of Green: The 
Politics, Economics, and Culture 
of Environmentalism” will be pre­sented by Dennis Hayes, founder of Earth Day, on Tuesday at 8 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
Lynn Emmanuel, associate professor at the University of Pittsburgh, will read her works on Wednesday at 8 pm in the Adamson Wing.
Sports
Contemporary Ensemble performs on Tuesday at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall. Admission is free.
Dimitri Berlinsky performs on Thurs­day at 8 pm at the Mellon Institute Auditorium, as part of the Gorell Young Artist Series.
10th Anniversary All-Star Jazz 
Cruise will sail on Sunday at 6:30 pm from the Station Square dock. For more information, call 355-7980. Robbie Klein Jazz Cruise All-Stars to perform.
The women’s tennis team plays Rob­ert Morris College on Tuesday at 3:30 pm and at the Rolex Tournament at Trenton State University from Thurs­day through Monday.
The volleyball team hosts Grove City College on Tuesday at 6 pm and com­
petes at the UAA Round Robin at Brandeis University on Friday and Saturday at 12 pm and 9 am.
The women’s soccer teamhosts Cali­fornia University of Pennsylvania on Tuesday at 7:30 pm and plays Robert Morris College on Saturday at 4 pm.
The men’s soccer team hosts Point Park College on Wednesday at 7:30 pm and plays Franklin & Marshall College on Saturday at 11 am.
The men’s cross country team com­petes at the Dickinson College Invita­tional on Saturday at 12 pm.
The women’s cross country team competes at the Dickinson College In­vitational on Saturday at 12:45 pm.
“So how large does my chess have to be to be on tho IM chess team?”
Heidi: “Oh boy, mine’s a long one.”
“Is there an IVANA there? IVANA KISSUE?”
STBWTGINCITMASIAPOS.Fizzban B. Halperin— They
MK: “Gee, that really looks like a real cow.”: “That’s because it is a real cow, 
/IK.”
They say that chewing on metal is a sign of familial rejection.
JustSimply Timbo
Sneakers Limb Twin Peaks Unforgiven Call Enchanted April 422-7729— courtesy of Peter and the Manor theater marquee
L,Hope you liked the flowers.How about dinner?Leave a message in your plan file.— SA
“Suicide is not slacking off.”— King of the World
“Are you tired?”“Yes.”“How tired?”
“Hi, my name is Sam, and I’m at my sexual peak.”
GET A LIFE! Do you have no life, but you would like to? Well, get in touch with us. Girls or guys welcome (espe­cially guys!) Send campus mail to: GET A LIFE! Box 1877 (or box 2065) (Please include phone or email)
scritch scritch
Tartan CC — a new state of mind.
“I wish *1* could be a feminist, liberal, homosexual secular humanist just like Erik and Michael.”
— PG
