IHTER FEATKKinTY FORMAT. 
OLIVEB NATLOH’S OEOHEBTEA ~~ 
SCHENLEY^' y: ' . : FRIDAY
FBNKSYLTAHU. OLU CLUB OONTMT 
0AANEQ1E HtJSIO SALL 
s:l6 P. H. FRIDAY
VOL. XXI NO. 21IHTERFAR AEKiAiniR YO iRM.EYLYFVB NAiiK’nTF.B SH~TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1^27
PRES. BAKEft 
ADDRESSES 
CONFERENCE
Reviews Work Accomplish­
ed And Outlines Program 
For Drama Conferences
LAiiLR i.RHiTRK
SAVIORS:.OF DRAMA
«Payne Suggests Renovation of 
the Old System of 
“Traveling Stars.' ’.
tbelr authors., really meant to achieve in terms ot the theater,” suggested Dr. Thomas S'. Baker, 
president ot Carnéelo in his ad­dress. before the'second annual Drama Conference which- oponed 
last Friday. February 11, at the.
Yole
ppbspecting Into the rature de velopment ot the Little Theater In American .universities. Dr. Baker
. inlltee appointed from the Catneglt Conference, re- lewcd the work ac complished during tho past yeai and outlllncd plans to eetablieh e program for the future guidance ol 
drama conferences!In determining the principles 
thut would,aid In
embodiment of his 
address. First "That these con (erences. are concerned with on aspect of education ,o which thei 
is a rapidly; interest; ng would*
profitless—unless we can si the interest and help of men women from the professional
An underlying motion 'in efal-dlscuslons of the confer was the censorship of ,the New York . stage. Brock Pemberton the- producer, who-tdok the chaJi for a discussion oE "tbe relatloi between, the professional and non professional theater". predicted 
that-there, would be no censorshlj ofSibe. stage^ uB t|Q;,the Important cl ¿ho non-profeasloEal tbeiter, be believed . that It was useful “keeping alive the^publlp’s tnt (Continued on Page Two)
Basketball Team to 
Leave Thurs. on Trip
Will Meet Rensselaer and 
C.C; N Y; Defeat Geneva 
by 34*29 Score
The >leave Thursday rilgftt’on its annu at eastern trip. /Oames will hi played with Rensselaer Tech at Troy on Friday, and with City C< lege of New York, at New York 
City; on Saturday. .
The following men wilt pake thé trip: Captain Ray Hurd, Amans,Lynch,' HArpster. White, Hitch­
cock, Stauffer and Crum. It Is hoped thàt the same accident does not occur on the Rensselaer Hoot which occurred at Carnegie lest year, when a 'rival cheerleader*! 
broke some hip glassware.
Laet Thursday evening in the 
Tech gym, the &kibo passer featcd the Geneva quintet by tli£ score of 34 to 29,-^Throughout tit« encounter the Tartans led thei' opponents without' any apparent effort, until the later part of the second half when the Ctfvena drew .up within two points o leading Scotch twice. This Is the second win oC the Tartans in-seven starts, and- this Is the second time that 'the varBity five have played as a whole, the first being our ini­tial game..with Pitt. The game was marked by the lack of substitu­
tions, and the Carnegie five.--re­mained Intact until the latter plart of the second half, when Amans was forced out becausc of person­als, and Lynch because'of disa­
bilities.The game started off with au unusual snap; the Carnegie-bask- eteers unloslng à ferocious attack which netted them 17 points wit ' their seemingly dazed \pponei annexed thrèfe. Amans drew Ai blood for the victors, .by dropping in a field goal, .whlcli was cl followed by one from Lynch. From then on the game wds rather In­sipid for the Geneva: rooters, until after the second half. ; To the negle stands it,was-a treat Indeed, for the Plaid players-were giving; ue a demonstratloCL.of what'they ' were really capable of doing.- As ¦ the half'wore'on Geneva pulled up \ to 13 points, while the Sklbos were ' ‘taking six more, -and the «core . stood at^23 to.'l2 at ther tlo'se" of the hair.' .-. ,
. The second half started off with 
.VMcMilHn's-team, making one ^sensational comebacks.-, cutting the. * Tartan lead down point 'by point, /and turning this.listless contest' Into, one òr thè móet excltlng oi thè. yean 'The-.Geneva, players made, eleven- points, coming within pointa ot. tbe now* falling Sklbos,
. who hàd.oniyxCDq^Eed two points
REGISTRATIONFIGURES SIHÓW 
SLIGHT DECREASE
Registration for. the ,6ocond semester of 1927 ' has been
crease from the numb«
this number 76 wlthdrc
this time has reached HI. Of these, 21 are in the School ot Industries, 46 in the Engineering College, 19 in the College of Fine Arts, and 25 ln Margaret Morrlso
of Engineering, 404; School of Engineering,“ ‘ ‘of Industries.>f Fine A^te, 533,; Morrison, 466. Night classes- have also re­sumed. Records show there
The total of day and night I Carnegie for the r is 6,649.
ARCADIANS TO 
PLAY FRIDAY 
FOR GREEKS
Preparations Are Néarly 
Completed as Time For 
Annual Greek Dance Nears
HOLDFORMAL DANCE 
AT SCHENLEY HOTEL
TO CONDUCT SALE 
OF THISTLES THIS 
WEDNESDAY NOON
Campaign Will Probably 
Close Sales For Year; 
Require $1.00 Deposit
>1 the total number of. books or dered have been spld. -A genera' *‘Thistle" »day will ,be held thlf Wednesday, ot which time it 1: hopedPftiat the entire number will be subscribed.This will offer a final opporluiil ty to those Negligent students wbc have delayed the order of thei’ 1927 Thistle. Many have . been calling at the publications office 7 day, In the; attempt to se i a book,'thinking that registra 
line was the, filial sale. It I: the conyenl^i
id upper classmeri'who hai icted to order their book, it ;em that this is merely a ! neglect as no splilor can
Campus Week Daily
Paper Will Fill Need For
True Record of Events 
1 Of Eventful Week
The active star: rqr tue eighth annual Campus Weekdaiiy, known last' yeiy 'os' tfife\"Squeak,*’1 was choscn last week. Tho paper is sponsored By Pi Delta Epsilon, the, national journalistic honorary fra­ternity, ana has becomo an import->rograni of Can
ale’s ca
William H. Schelk, a member of Alpha Sigma Phi fratemlty' aml the honorariîs Alpha Rbo Chi and Tau Sigma.' Delta, was elected editor-in-chief of the publication. The important post of business manager will he filled by Mark Sel- tfert, of Sigma- Phi Epsilou and 
Delta Skull Wiitiom Kimlclo, a member ct Delta Upsilon fraterni­ty, ¡h t<> be the advertising man­ger; Milton Cohên of Beta Sig­na, Rho.will be in charge oi cir-
The, Campus Week paper—«fe yet
LIGHTING LECTURES TO 
CONTINUE NEXT YEAR
course .consisted or a- aei)«s of six lectures "coveriur a period of two •\veeks. Attendance wasvery sat- istact'ory.the total number of per­sons p'reneni being 722', or an av­erage of \120 per'lfecture/- - Ail the lectures were- lilustratedy hut. the two which excited especial enthusiasm were’ "Show: Window IUumla^.on'’ and.“Street Light­ing.’*.: At the' former. avcomplete-| shovi-' window, a*-reproduction ^o: one. In NewYork, was uae^ tc demonstrate proper. use of colorcc llghti? In window' displays. Nirmer oua street lights, traffic *signah and a miniature street, 'ahowlni \raffic coutiol by .lights, were din flayed iat the lecture on .''Street 
ijghijng. ’ ’
Chaperones, Patrons and Pa- 
oneeBes Invited, Favors 
apd-Snpper Planned.
___nity Formtrl, that will b9held nt ihe Hotel Schnnley, Friday, February IS, aie rapidly being lompleted. This occaslou oilers1 h«yooe opportunity of the year for U t\>e Greeks to mlneJo, and, Iroia •resent' Indications, thlg year’s 
ormal will be a decided success. 
The'music for the Oance.will be rovldod by Oliver Ni*yior and .hi» 4 popular musicians.^. The or\ heetra has had an especially >vido jiperlcnce at college dances. .Le'st rrldoy night*“they ' furnished Ihe melody for ths Pitt Junior Prom* fcave'pljvyed at Georgia Tecli, Cornell, Colgate. Princeton, Wash­ington and Lee, North Caroline, South Carolina. V. T. I.. B. M. I„. and many olhir colloges-and uni­versities'.
Tho list of Chaperones for tho rtnncc, Includes Uie. following peo­ple; Mr. ;iud Mrs. M. K. Kirkpat­rick, Mr. and Mrs. Clarcnce Over- end,' Mr. and' Mrs. 'WliUam R; Work. Mr. and Mrs. F. Curlia Svianfon, and Dr. William L. Marks. The patrons and patron­esses are to be Dean Mary Watson Greeu, Denn and Mrs. Arthur W. Tarbell, < Froreseor Glendeunlng Keoble, nnd Mr. and Mr6. ('rank J. anithaii.
Tbo committee, which is com­bed of Bob Shreve, chairman. George PetLjcoxd. Earl Boebel. and Stenley Abbott, Is particularly de: 
n that all wandering Greeks attend the dance.. All fraternity pledges are also eligible to attend, (ConUnued on ;Page Four.)
Glass to be Subject 
Of Lecture, Friday
, Glass is as impoiHant an Indue- i rial material as steel, according . E. Marshall of the Coru-year In college, especially as the year'boak Is primarily publishedIng Glass Works, who will speak Fridnyi February ' eighteenth, in
There will be salesmen In UieRoom 213 Science ^Building at 6:30. The popular conception of glass
buildings on the campus and if anybe utilized in industry that work-
see them at the noon hour',"booksmaterial froAi breaking. Mr. Mat--
office on that day. trom 11:30 to 2:30. ..v^ commercial- material. . He used glass as containers in solving ths
Select Entire Staff of
tar packing problem, since glass resists acid affects. ?ie is also ln- tercaled In tho manufacture of
bow'iS used in producing sulfu acid He became interested giant gíaes iroducts and glass Industry. ' Last" year Mr. Marsh
of the'year. ‘Lcctures listed for Friday eveu- [¦Ings in March Include tlie Collow- ug: Afarch 4. "Puinplug Equip-uent for the Cliomicnl industry,*’ - (Continued oh Page Two)
Picture of “The Beanery” Arouses' 
Interest at Local Exhibition
terred to by those students \.who 
frequent Us counter, hajreuddenly entered the limelight and attain­ed fame far beyond the confines' of the campus. Formerly famous’ its enormous production ,of legumes and similar foods, the famous building is n<Av the subject of a palnUpg In the Pittsburgh Ex­hibition . of Art In Institute Gal-, lerles.Th^ painting 19 presented' by Carl Itoaentwig, a Carnegie grad-
HOLD IMPORTANT 
COUNCIL MEETING
the School of Fine Arts.' The pic*, turu. rejiresenls' the intierlor ot the “Beanery*' and shows the students wrryJng their treys aci
eseuted by 'Carnegie tal- ept. At least 00 per cent of«the plc- tures were * produced by pebpio either nowror formerly connected, with tbe Arts School. ' ? sProfessor Predrtk Vlckstrom Ny- quiut of the Department of Educa­tion, won the first .prize of $160 on his paioting •'Soran." This is a beauUIul painting of a young girl
Mabel K. Day. the wife of tae ’óriner Dean Day. of Carnegie.* wad 
twarded tbe second honor and prize ot $19,10^ tbe paJaüug "The While
GLEE CLUB TO 
PARTICÍPATE IN mm. CONTEST
Carnegie Glee Club Has Ex­
cellent Chances of Winning 
Cup and Trip to New York
TO ACT AS HOST TO 
COMPETING TEAMS
Council to Sponsor New All- 
School Magazine to 
Replace Shilling
intere« the •
bideiable general
brought up and decided upon by tho members present
The treasurer's monthly state­ment of accounts opened the ses­sion and was followed by a brief report ' on the plebe regulations situation by. Ray Hurd, who was urged by Mr. Curr to sec thut 'tha coming pleVo-soph fights are is well ordered as can be expected. .A scries of recommendations 
from tiio- Budget Committee were brought up by Clarence Udd. Thoi the 13 the !the- "ShllHug" which ho^> been in considerable financial difTiciUty lately. Coundl decided to dlscon- tlnuo the Shilling, arid >io g(yo credit toward activities keys to 
those umlergrartufttes who have been working on the publication, with tbe Idea that they .7111 trans­fer Xo another publication. - It svas (hen suggested and approved lbat
i the
work, to consider the format!pu 
of a new all-school magazine , to takQ. tho pldcc or the Sbiiling-. This meeting will be called Jn the near future, •
Tlio Cmattor of “coinplmerilary tickets for school uflalrs was taken. 
,)»P^.iCwag. deiclde4; that; iift; moiia invitations are to be. sent to guests 
as t ueans of admission. Compli­mentary tlckets- wlll he necessary for such guests and the list oC peo­ple 'wht> ate to receive these1 by I
?hn Carr, President ot thelCoun 1. is to be sent as a delegate (Continued on Page Two)
JUNIOR PRO’M PROVES 
A FINANCIAL SUCCESS
First Prom-In Three Years To, 
Come Out Free, of Debt.
F. H. Finn Awarded National 
Scholarship by A.I.M4M.E.
t nidgw. Pa.,a Junto!Ing and Metallurgical Engineering at the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, lino been'awarded the na> tional scholarship of . $500.00 of­fered annually by the American In­stitute ot Mlniug aud Metallurgi­
cal Engineers. The scholarship, ie awarded on the bosis of a com; binatioa oC campus activities ani scholasUc standing.Finn is the first Carnegie stu­dent to, win the hoiicr. All. stu- dents ofr mining, metallurgy or geology throughout- Uie country are eliglble to compete ton. the award. ["Funds foi\llie scholarship are pro­vided Uy the Women's Auxiliary to 
the Instlt'
rD^-
/ Last week's issue ot the Tartan ¡?¡pntalacd (the names ot_- several iul-lltlous tc the Tartan Staff. Since that time ' several N?norr-• beenthe-
. Tin following are those *wfio have been added; the treshman re- porter®' are Paul Dro'ste. W.-^f; Hny, ’ anil' Sid Warner W. Ber­nard -has been appointed as one ofibutlng editors. ThèInclude all those per­sons who by virtue" of: dependable work tor .the past several montilo In connection with' the publication of^ the Tartari have been select^ 
as.itaH'mefcbere.-r'v
The Junior Prom of January 2ft has proven itself a financial as well a» a social success.. The Prom
for this leads to many contri 
The fact that tlie commit
_ rf>ens£s was mi tained bytheStudcnl Cour seem to be the .chief reasons financial success. The budget-e tern >f the Student Council, wl not having absolute control 01 
had the effsct cfInim:ndilure-3.iipervision, for the Individual efforts at co-opera- n 'on the pare of the variotu 
mbers of the committee tended vards efficient piocuctlon cf- a illy enjoyable Pi-om Chat the , Prom . was success m -the students' point of vlew is be denied, but a feeling oflatlsfactioiri fit t!mlttee when they realize tbat the do not have to go tbrotfeli the bat­tle-royal that was waged last year.
, themiri;
and pledges of Phi Kaw- w*^e busily engaged irk that ledi ous. process of moving. ' - ; .The-new home, at 4?42 Cente! nvemie, iis located next door to' th< old house,. in which- tho. clmptei has resided tor the last i'ihi'e« years« A large apartment bulldlcc wilt tc erected on the site of ilu 
old home. ¦ VThe new- house- is much’ mor« benutitul than the one just vn «ted. - - It-. Is - a. three-slory dwelling built of, butt brick, aJid hns ample accommodations for 30 men. The design of the Interior Is vory ele­gant ‘ and- ' of refined character. Sonic of the features af th^‘ new homo are the large living rooms, 
tht^dlnlng rofim. the conservatoi"}' and ihe excellent accommodations tor dsnclntf. . Tbe ¿Inlug room with the. paneled -walla, beamed 
colllug and purquBt. floor,.makes vciy cheerful; envlroninetl tor Uie
Speoial Student Bate Tiokete 
On Sate All This Week 
At Y. 91. 0. A. Offlco.
»sell F. Hyde.
- the
shibltlon was won by ¦’S'outhHllle.v- by Gi
Art School. Wilmuth . U en. a Junior In .tlie. Depart- of Paiutlng and xDecohitlon, he "'alumnno prize of $25 for jointing “Still Life.” This painting is¦alls. Alls:ien painted thli the aide of her reflection in a mlr- belr Topp, who le Miss Mars­'s teacher, won.. the "aluhinde (Continued on Paze Fanr.>
Gambol of Guild's to 
Be Held Friday Mar. 4
Qhoo$e Committee For An> 
nual Ind. Dance to be 
Held' in the Union
Tho Carnogle Glee Club, under th% ’direction of Harvey Gaul, has. progressed rapidly and Is prepared put forth Its best oiforts to carry oir tho first honors in the Inter­collegiate Gloe.Club ContoBt'whlcli lelng held at ,tlie Carnegie 1c Hall tills Friday evenlug so It may secure the right to be Ted in (he national contest few York City. The program be?n arranged to be over at 0 p. m. lu order to enable e wbo will, atteud the luter- 'ernlty formal to hear Jt lu Its rety. Ths Carnegie Glee Club, ng, .K ho:»t. will ccmpcto with W.- aud J., Juniata, Penn 
Statti, .and Buckncll.
ie winner will be entered in natlooal contest that’ Is held In Ne,w York city- in^Morch by tho Interoolleglatc Musical Corpora, which was founded In ID13 to foster such ,conteetB. Each club vlll b&repreeenled by 30 men with heir loader who will direct theip n the Hinging of threo-seleciiona. One selection will be of their own >, on^Jie "Prizo" song, and one a College song> The Bongs. :hf)sen by tho competing collets nust he of high musical merit, the ¿ojloge song will bo the typical
The cWmltiee for the Gambol <>f tho Guilds bos been rccontly ep-. pointed and they will start work immediately ae the «inrice will be held In the. Union 'on Friday oven- ing, March -1., The price of admis­sion will be $2, the same as that ! preceding years. ,
Tbe following committee has ¦on appointed to prepare tor .the actual Industry dance- ’whlch.-la opail to students of all, achoois: A. M. Johcson, a member of Sigma F\ D. Woods, a.metuher ot phi Kappa; James L. Austraw, a mem- 
Kappa Sigma; M. D., Burn­side, of Sigma Alpha Epsilon; and Phillip C. Schncider, a member of Nu; Delta Alpha.
The chairman of. this committee is not been chosen as yet' Themlttee. i high calibredesires to obtain aj : orchestm as possible ' have 6uch' orchestras under consideration: n,” “De Luxe." arid xon’s," etc. The oy\ the preceding- Gambols excellent and therefore lee desires to keep, up Ion and add to it it pots-
on a scheme of 'decoration which' will be'of an 'unusual nature be­fitting- a. "Guild” dance.
The Gambol of the Guild*, the dicual frolic sponsored- by tho men from the Industries school, is al­ways a gala affair- attended by stu­dents, of all fcur colleges. This Is the big dance o2 the year for the 
plumbers, carpenters and bricklayers. Here. all the .Engln-; and In(lustry.-PIebeinted with 1
tumble
ible . to get :
md women who vheretofoi strangers'to them.' v This dance1. gives the first year'inan a chanco aside regulations and enjoy the companionship and convcreetior ct.the fascluatlng members of th< |tairer sex.
eports from the com ill be published In. sue Issues. • of • tlie i Tarian Tset to reserve Friday night. March 4, on - your social •Meridar for-the annua) Ciambol of he Gulldi
GTee Club to Sing Over 
Radio Wednesday Evening
The Carnegie Tech- Glee Cliifr wlli broadcast from statlon. WCAE at Pittsburgh on Wednesday
melo-ea and a group of, five folk 3origa. Tlu* W^tee Club Is under the di­ction ót .Hnrvey B. Gaul, witci' la prominent -musiò leader of Pltt«: hiirgli. The-;student dii Merrill Holllnshead, edit« of th® Tartan. • ' ¦ '.;/ The soloists of the ev
-chief
Meii Stum l Von Ende and Al­
folio!lan V. Nern.¿The program Is as li DeafOld Carnegie Tech....Kre\v • arrangement " by Hah . B.'Gaul. - ~ '5r-2. Song of Fellowship............................... . Hovvey B. Gaul,3. Carnovale . ........ .^. .RosBlnlter Poyntz. Sung by Elfn 
Danced, by EUriar Ryig '^;ny’;:tho gooec. Frank Sullivan is 
•the goose. '-v;. 4. "Dance Away.the Blues,”,by Parplti. ' SUng .by 1 Durbin Horner. Danced by .Durbfn Homer and .7 (Contlnu«il.:/onV Page TwO)- .- .
anted, and I be. "The Loti“Prizs; *111i Flowef," by Schu-
i tlini Judgesi Will Ear-Burt M^Murtle, id Eurliest Lunt, men who ore pVomlneht lu music circles. Will Earhart, the chairman, is the head (•Continued on- Page Four.)
NQTRBDA/VIE SWIMMERS 
DEFEAT SKIBOS, 50-12
Ii\ the opening meet of the sea- on last Saturday, the Carnegie isrmen were defeated by .the Totre Dame natators, 50-12.
The Irish, appearing- in their third meet lu four days, raced of!1 the•vents,In the aame fashion that brought 
them victory over Pitt. Friday night at th*e P. A. A.
The Carnegie tankmen, aBide 
rom -Follansbee, offered little' op- losltlon to' their famed South Bend rival». Follansbee captured the ,onI3J first p)ace tor tbe Tartan
Ume tor tbe race, which. \ xemely* close at all stage 25'3-E. ‘ '
In all of the other even Motre Dame team took fir >rs besides the majority 1 locond places. .Leading Irish scoring w^re McCafTrin the
Brycyaskl. •capturedrats,, the dlvtag and 220-yard tyle, while Brcynskl won Che' 100-yard free style ,and placed sec- ind In the 70-yard free style. Both' ilso competed In The 200- lay which was won by the .South Benders.
with the varsity affair, the Carnegie plebes lost to Peabody High. The point score was 25 to Zi. Summaries: ¦Vanity Events.200-yard relay—Won by Notre ame (Brcynsld, Cronin, Tennes,. McCa.ffrey);' second, • • Cartifegie (RosH. Von Etidei Angu9, Folic bee>. Time—1:45 1-5.- Diving — Won by McCaffi 
Notre Dqme; ' second, Brenr . (Continued-on Poge Four.)
" Dr. Ai R,. Koblnsoa of tho Sixth United-Presbyterian Church,I North Hlghand. avenue, will. speak :hapel this .coming Thursday, uary 17. The music wilt b<; piled- by; Alan Nern, manage the' Gfc§- Club. Mr. Frederick ChapWn will: assist t 
Dr. Robinson's .topic hi been anpounced, .but itfg talk Is assured. '; Chapel -services are held eviry Thursday from twelve-fifty to one the Little' Arts Theatei They-, are sponsored'-.by the Y, M C? °Ar -T'dopartment of . Carnegie Secretary' -Davis;. U 'plaoning. t have as-added- attracttpus at.'these- 
services; .the Kiltie.’ .Band,' ,'oiee Club, arid the'NGlrl8’>Gl^ Club. Dates , for these attractions have
"Only eight more chapel setvices remain "on schedule. AIt is hoped that the' studeot'.-body- will attend these cbapolj.mectlngs ¦they are the only rellglc______i>n the Campiils. The d^ors of the Theater will be or«n '.hlrty. and the eserclaes will begi^prom*U^ ft twelve-fifty
CAMPUS WEEK 
APPOINTMENTS OF LAST 
TARTAN ERRONEOUS
Untorunately the Tartan was misinformed' regarding two appofotmcnts ot Campus Week committee which wore erroneous. • The sppolm- ' ments as announced by The confirmed,'Fartai
Student Council will : to correct the mistake: - 
February 10, 1927. •To The Tartan:Tbe Student Council wishes .to luform you tliat the l'Ile Tartan ot Feb- regarding tho np- i- ot Lloyd Yodei is Kolb to tbe re positions of chair i and business manager of the Campus Week Show ' was an erroucouB announce-
Campus Week have come before the Student Council for* consideration.
‘ N As this , mlBlnformatlon would lyj misleading- ItMiot < formally denied, we request
Dances and Musical NuitV- 
bers of Arts Event Will bs 
Given For Student Body
DR. ROBERT WOODS 
WILL LECTURE IN 
CARNEGIE yNION
Physicist to Talk on Optical 
Excitation of Spectra; 
February 17andl8
on “The Ontlcal Exclti Spectra" will'be given by ert William Wood, professor ot ex­perimental physics of Johns llop- klna University since 1001. Ho Ifl ^radunto ot Harvard and ha» sen < a student at Johns Hopkins and tbe University of Berlin. Hon­orary degrees have boen conferred >n him by Clark Coljego, the Uni- erslty of Birmingham and the .University of Edinburgh.
The Baltimore soleulls't has dis­tinguished himself in a -wide vaA- ety of fields of research! In 1898.originated : the method., now In general'., us.s-.4pt. thawinff .. tr^zfcu 
street malne and' sorVlce pipes:'by passing an electric current through tfiem.- Honoi-s conferred ob the re- lult of hie achievements In scion- tlftc research' includo . the John t legacy premium and medal -ded by the Franklin Institute In Philadelphia'for coloivphotog- mphy; ihe Ru’mford premium ded by the Amorlcan Acad- for rossarches pertaining to tho theory of,light; the Elirenprels. arded by the .Dresden Intcma- (Contlnued on- Page Twf). 7
HCKETSJF0R WOMEN’S 
JUNIOR PROM CAN BE 
PURCHASED THIS WEEK
Preparations, for tho W«Junior Prom, to be held <25th ot February, at the Fort *Pltt Hotel, ars rapidly nearing comple­tion. The comblued comqilttee
any unusual plans.tor tale year’s
Invitations to .the Prom have ¡en sent out this week to the Senlhr class .and the class cbupef- 
Tickets .will go 011 sale this . vThe Aluftuii tickets-may be ired from Mary • McGuire, they will cofat seven dollars. The tickets.for the Seniors may be had front Alicfi Rlbblett and' Francis Kiser lu Margaret Morrison, and in the Arts School tlie tickets may be obtained -from ¿Dorothy Boyle. All Senior and Alumni 1 tickets ihottld be bought by the 2ist of February. Pinal,payments for the
qf the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, offers eight fellowships in mining and metallurgical research,, in co-operation with the Pittsburgh Experiment Stations of the United 
States Bureau of-Mines atid vlsory Boards representing these Industries. Fellowships are : open to the'graduates ot. colleges, versltles, and technical-ac who arc proprely (iimllfled tc dertake resaarch , investigations.' Each fellowship carries a stipend or $7*0, paid In ten inatallmen Fellowship holders 'are required register tl graduat^sluJcuia and become candidates for the degree
been earned. The fell'ows'wAl be required' to pay' tho required, tuition. The purpose of these tel- lofc-shlpa Is .„the solution .of' prob* leins which, are - ot special Import­
ance t«i the. mining,.'metallurgical áud allied .Industries. At*^ present there are lS resiarch fellowV work: ing at t&e'butfcáu of'mines.- .They ave cc,ncorn«¿é Wiethe «nlutlon ,of problems aáslgried.by tfie .Armband 
>corpcmtlona t that aré ' financing them, such as the New York Edi­son Company, Tile National'Coal Association,' tho Iron-and Steol 
industry: and others.'.
ASSEMBLY TO 
PRESENT MUSIC 
OF ARTS BALL
TAU SIGMA DELTA TO x 
MAKE MID YEAR CALL
Only Four More General As* 
semblieB Remain—Sohedule 
of Dates Announoed.
lu the Muelo Hall today. The pro­gram will fonluro many unusual itumbors. A sasopbono solp >vlU be given by Harold-Huuter ot tho 
ArchUecturói Dopanmcnt; - the Tuu' Sigma ; Deita- houoi-ùry will mako Its annual call; and lastly, 
tho iriost outortuliilng ot the musi- :ol and danco numbers Vhtch were njoyed bys so small n' represenla- tlon ot Carnegie, pn the night, of Fobrnary 4,' at. the Rnuslan Arts prèsontéd before the wholo studont body.' at the Assembly today. The novel presentation whtch th^ Counoll has preparoit, promises to-' make the rst Assembly ot the new semeB- >r. the.greatOBt one ct the yeat. he program lB la brief:
1. -Call by the 1atu Sigma Deità honorary.
2. Saxophone solo by HaroldHunter. ( •' .3. Arts Ball program.
Thla^lutLer part ot the program ill be turned over to “Peto"
Hygg who'will present the muetcnV numbers from the-“Silly Goose." Tho "Sl)iy Goose/’ the 1927 Arts Ball Show,, was capably written and euccoBstulIy staged by Donald Willson. Victor Esker arranged,, nd coached aH'the danccs of the 
presentation, as well as tho chorus,' - 
will appear iu costunie; and the musical ' numbers wblchi, they will present are as follows:
**On to Moscow," by Walter J. Poyntz! To be sung by Durbin Horner and danced by- lhe Morylk 
girls. ' . ' "iry Ana," written by Jaa, . McGldll... Siiug by Rulh PerrOtt.
Seven Men Receive 
Tau Beta Pi Honors
National Eng. Fraternity 
Initiates Prominent » 
Sci. School Men
last .Saturday/evening at 5:00 ,p.i the Schenley Hotel. Seven 
Carnegie - men, Leonard Flowers, Kay Hurd,-John Chldiuter, James Power, Clarence Peck, Donald Idsnn. and Robert Nolbel were Initiated, W.’ Tsagi)e was also Initiated for' the Betn Chapter of the Tau Beta Pi of Alabama.
The men chosen must attain a certain scholastic standing, that Is, they must he in the upper one- eighth, ot the Junior Clous or the upper fourth ot the seniors. They must also have a geed character, an attractive „parsona! tty, and abil­ity In leadership; tliey must be outstanding in-the activities, of the 
school. "* ¦ 1Leonard Flowers, Senior Ciieml- caJ. is a member of SJg)aei Nu so­cial, Science.. Senate, and Druids. He was president of hl3 dass^ur- Ing bis Sophomore and ' Juniu; 
years, / ¦’Ray Hurd, Senior Electrical, is . (Continued on Page Four.) .
Puppet Approaches Purity 
In Issue Appearing Feb. 22
The ivory elruh of the Carnegie Puppet will »lake Its -apearance February 22. This will be the •ri||pal spring cleaning number.
can ba. There will be a' gran«! clean-up In the line of humor.À pupuet 99 43-100 per cent sure is prohnble. Witness, tlie tollow- Ine: .;A censor will'be employed; the vSa&e ot tlie Sklbo has- taken . hla 'nnnual hath. The exchanges will be clean. The personal testi­monies "of .Mr.-- Proctor and Mr. / 
Gamble will appear. The. "Eye to ’! rlfriotgive the tragic life of Mr. Proctor.In spite of the al<ove precautions and material, 1-100 per cent must be:dediicted from the'standard of . 
purity, because it'is not yet known what will: appear in the depart- mont,\-By. tlie>Way,”'and because, tho editor Is open to 'bribery, pro­viding the amount is laxfee enough.' .The futuire numbere' ot the Pup­pet, "haVe been* aiinoiiiiced. .After '. xhe lyory Issue,' willv come : the. Theater, number.-. Next will be- th€T ’ Alumni Issue, which wilt contain the:’hest of'art;and editorial worjt- . Then a * Commencement Number- ; wlir foiiow. s -And laat ia the Grand . 
Surprise number, • -whicheveryone . should look forward to, for it will contain many things which wlli be- : 
'worthwhile..;v..---•'

---------------------------------------------------

MOLD IMPORTANT. COUNCIL. MEETING (Continued From .Page One;) tbe Convention - of Student Coun­
cil Presidents, being' held- at'the University ,oi'Illinois, February 17, 18 and; 19, dnd that ‘be social-cal­
endar for next y*>r <s to be re> vised soon, to avoid the crowding of affairs being experienced tbi6 car. Mr. Cairs reading, of the; ?eligibility list . because Zi first ialaJiUes, ended tbs
Razor Blades
T
HE softer your beard when shaving, the less 
work for your razor. Williams Shaving Cream 
softens the beard bristles so completely that the 
razor just glides through them. This eliminates
“pull” and lengthens the life of your blades. Theni 
Williams lubricates the skin for easy shaving and 
leaves it glove-smooth after the shave. Two 
sizes—35c and 50c.
INyyNOST RAODNMc henOS
Collegiate pipes aren’t all 
'non campus mentis’
Appearances may be against the modem 
, college pipe; he may look ‘superfish\ ... he 
may sound a bit blotto, slinging his six or 
seven slanguages, including the Scandi­
navian.. .. But when he talks ‘tobacco’
, lend him your ears. 'For that’s one subject 
he’s studied and knows from the ground up!
. Listen to his learned lingo and,you'll see 
why the one perfect pipe tobacco is grand 
old Granger Rough Cut. It's all spicy old 
Burley, the choicest pipe tobacco known 
to man... all mellowed Wellman's way.. 
and cut, especially Jpr pipes, in large slow* 
burning, cool'smoking flakes. It's breaking 
all collegiate records for pipe^popularity.
Of course, some collegiate pipes, who 
judge everything von ‘priced can’t afford to 
smoke Granger.... it's too Inexpensive. 
But notice any pipe, that is sufficiently 
sure of himself to be himself, alrtays; and 
notice úíso his Granger.
GRANGER
INyOS TyR
ALUMNI PAGE
Acelvlcne Wolding Plant Constriction." by G. O. Cai Liiade Air-Products Company March 25. "Electric Power in th
CLAN NEWS ]
PHILADELPHIA-The Philadelphia Clan held a >ry successful dinner dance Sat- rday nigliC -February 6, eo the Arcadia' cafe. Chestnut Etreet A number ot old-tlmera were 
nt; which number was sup­plemented by many now faces, in-
Cleveland-Women's 
Clan Plans Bridge
To be Held For Benefit of 
Cleveland Carnegie 
Scholarship
Loul
ir, £dniEarly, J. K. EJHott,Stark, M. F. hieben lt. Alwine and others. • it was decldcd to bold a dinner, lancc on March 19, probably In the \rcadla cafe, to entertain Mr. Dverend. Moving pictures of the ’our outstanding football games of he 1936 season and also pictures ef Campus Week will be shown. It le expected that'there will be over idrcd at tbis meeting.
AWARD ONE 1927-28
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA <
¦ at a meeting of Ihe Southern California Clan, Friday evening.try 26, which was well attend-' 
ed by the clan members and tbelr sts. Among those present were: j. Blockstock, Paul Bowmen. Betty Finkolbor, Mary Gheorin, s . H. Clark, •¦Chuck" Craw­ford, Gracc Shields Crosby, Max Drevln. Floyil C. Fisher, Mrs. I-'loytl 1 Fisher, F. E. Foster, Jame3 P. Hall. Florence Ceynn Kennedy, V. S. Neville, Florence. Ilamlack, Nel- Reynold», J. R. Riley. Janies H. Knapp, Mr6. Helen II. Knapp, Oscar SalKln, Peter ,J. De Mutll. 
J. Hnrold Weller, Mr. and Mi'S. C. R. Austin.A second meeting was held the ollowlng Friday evening, Febru- 
iry.4, for tbe purpose of showing
>ors of the clnn .who were unuble 0 attend the'January meeting.- Tuesday night, February 1. the 
:1an held a most enjoyable dinnar dance at the Casa Del Mar at Santa onlca. . About forty persona were osenL The election of officers r tlie coming year unshekl.
Now and then a letter fomes in 
from one of the clans which really makes tfs believe that the alumul ore still Interested In tbelr Alma Mater. Such an oiie was tbat re­ceived from the Cleveland ‘Worn er.’s clan.wbicb, by the way, has 
boeO mighty acl
Thebrldge are to go towards the Cieve- and Carnegie scholarship fund.A scholarship will be awarded 0 a Cleveland High school girl for he year oi 1927-1928. This' schol- irsbip will be a furtherance of tho good work of III© past which thife clan 1*83 done in this respect.
T clan members of Women’s clan will hold n bridge pojty in their respec- Itb-two or more of the clan members aclii
PRES. BAKERADDRESSE6CONFERENCE
(Continued From Page One) ieat in the spoken drama until such time as the professional theater is ready and worthy to rescuo the road from ihe movies, with their tasteless; foolish photoplays, their' stereotyped programs, served In their strawberry, ice cream soda auditoriums."But Professor B. Iden' Payna, head of the Drama department, in the same discussion, evolved a ti more aspiring role for the little
employing professional direi that In some of them a nucleus of the actors received salaries, and, that from auch amateur groups 
as the old Washington Square players grew such artistic profes­sional units as the Theater Guild.He saw in the little theaters the
and ¡xplolting I
He suggested that thè little théi ters and some of the players i professional ranks might' reiiovat the old system of “traveling stars playing wlthHheof .skill,'
lat rkddtv
THE LADDER
The fact thatsGve Carnegie Tech
enUsnth annuaf exhibition of ,tbe Associated Artists of Pittsburgh at the Carnegie Institute Galleries'on Thursday, February 10. would in­dicate rliat' the Department ' of 
Palming and College of Fin
burgh. The Camilla Robb Memor­
ial‘prize fCr the best picture done
K. Pcrmar, a former part-time stu­dent of Art School. The aluiunae prize oi $25 was won by Wilmùth
Lee <rsden,i the
1 believed, thathold
will j
under this piai >r wir, be a The follow
Mìas Catherine Allan, Mrs. Es­ile Andrews, Miss Geòrgie Clark, Iss Dorothy L. Draz, Mrs. Blanche . Eppele. Miss Ellen Eyman, Mise i-elyn Clossen, Miss Helen Hew­itt, Miss Gretchen Issel, MlssCath- ¦ Kerr, Mrs. Helen H. King, Belly Kofoid, Mrs. Alice Nel- Kop-es, Miss v Mildred Law-
. Mrs. Maude H. MontgomeryMrs. Robert W. Morey, Miss Efve- lyn Pierson. Miss Virginia Pope and Mrs. Nellie B. Sharks.a Cleveland clau has shown a great 'deal .of
lond S. Simboli, :
reproduction of that well-knowc
wing students .carrying . thoii trays Lo white lopped tablos. Dan 
and Louise Pushing, pther r Tech students submitted
The Physical Si burgh will hold a dinner on Thurs: iv, February 17, at the Carnegie n In honor of Professor Robert Wood, of Johns Hopkins Uni- 
irslty. The secretary of the 60ci- y is Dr. J. B. Nathanson, Depart- ent of Physics.
la ted iand atbel
school > to.be
mblic .the beat' of
ROBERT WOOD,S' ?WILL GIVE LECTURE
IN CARNEGIE UNION
(CoiI from Page One):hlbltlon in 1909 hlbit in the depa title photography; awarded by the London Society 
of Arta for a color-photography process, and a gold :¦ medal foiphysic? award clctyof Scion.
During, the World \ served with the A. E. developing methods I nailing. As oii.authc
bboks on scientific su the field of.fiction : 
“The Mau YVho Rock
STANLEY-ROW,LAND-CLARK'S
STRAND MANOR
Reed Howes 
W/cT Fields
ilAn gs££neTu 
“Going Crooked”
Besde Love Oscar Shaw
Thursday and Friday
Harold Lloyd 
“The Kid Brother”
“THREE BAD MEN” 
George (O'Brien- Olive Barden
W. C. Fields 
“THE POTTERS”
MN£ff YORK” 
Lois WUson Ricardo Cortez
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
tment of Painting and Decora- 
». for her painting “Still Life." unusual portrait of a young girl >veralls, which was painted from «flection of Miss Marsden iu a •ror. Vincent Nesfcert, another mar student of Carnegie, won r. prize, and Jeannette C. Shirk.iously «: School.'ard.
“Tho Moon-Mal Wilh.jitlaboiirthtu> of Pii
(Continued From Page 1 V Glee Club.Nov Is the Month of
(Sevenle 
fi. The Gl
(An.Thanksglvi
inds).3. Cradle Song ......(Cecbeslis Sorrow Thy Young Dded ........................(Irish)^Allen V. Nern,
............\ .SlcpliInde,Gkfe Clul
GLEE CLUB, CONTEST
mber.5 for ?
¦ for the Intercollegiate Glee v Club contest Indicate a live •> 
alumni interest :n the evenL ? It Is to be held I11 Carnegie * ¡ Music’ Hail. Pittsburgh, on * 
Friday, FebruiGleeu-tlcipCarnegie are those of Pitt, Penn State, Junlalt 
Bucknell and W. & J.The Carnegie ’ Glee CIÚ1
winner of the conit lo New York to take ? i tho National Cont<
(Continued Froi by E. A. Suverkro
inc.; March U Equlpnu
, 'Jr., United Fil-
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN.ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE
STANDARD TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Cbemk-al' Iniuslry and' In Cbemi' cal 'Proc^SB,'; by C. L. Relgel. Gen­ii Electric Compauy,
4:30-8:00 P. M.
TRY OUR 35c LUNCH « 
Special — Pastries with Fra*, ternlty.letters for occasions.
Shorait’sTeaRoom
371D FORBES STREET Phone Schenley 9319 -
Let’s All Go To The
iRM.
Barber Shop
' For Our Hair Cuts 
CRAIG AND 
FORBES
THf cjCothcs, H^i'Bensp^iSHeior, 
H^ATS, SHOfS, ST01tSrSWe^4%_
DEVELOPED BY FINCHLEY FOR 
COLLEGIAN. USAGE FOR SPRING 
WILL BE EXHIBITED BY A REP­
RESENTATIVE FROM NEW YORK
. ' ¦, At
WILLIAM PENN'HOTEL 
Wednesday and Thursday 
February 16th and 17th
HARRY SCHEIN. Representative
SUITS. TOTCO^TS
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
'We Have Learned That it is 
Better;to-Use:
Kissel Skiles Rent a Car Service
For All Occasions
T
6107 Broad Strei Hlland 1^00 .
125 Seventh Sir«
Schenley Theater
Continuous 2 to 11 P. M.
First Floor and Balcony—25o 
Mezzanine—35o 
HARRY DAVIS: General Manegar
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY»'FEBRUARY 16 ANC“Michael Strogoff”
» Amazing, Tremendoua SpeiI by JULES VERNE -
FRI,DAY AND SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18 AND 1Harold Lloyd 
: ‘‘ïVe Kid'BrotVer’’
THE. STAGEALL WEEK
PHIL ROSE AND HIS COLLEGIATE EIGHT ORCHESTRATalented and Popular Performer« with Elaborate Preaentatlon .of Muaic and>Ctever Specialties.. .
” MONDAY AND. TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 21 AND 22“Perch of the Devil”
From Gertrude-Atherton1* .sensational novel of Marrlaae and ..> V-. ' Dlvorce'wlth - '
MAE BUSCH. PAT O'MALLEY. JANE WINTON,. THEODORE VON ELTZ •
Here are 30 out of 
the man/ communities 
which are today using 
bricb pavements 30 ' years old or better.
No other paving tna- 
'terialcanapproachthi9 list in age and mileage.
Bucyroe, Ohio Buffalo, N. Y.
esT'
Pensacela, FIs.- St. Paul, Minn. ¦ S*wlckt«y, Pa. apringAeld,/!!).
A Book for
Roads Scholars
do they use 
brick pavements?
D
OWN the side of this page 
are listed 30 fortunate com­
munities which know from a 
practical, first-hand experience 
the amazing endurance qf vitri­
fied brick pavements. The pave­
ments in question were built 
before you were born —they 
were built for horse-drawn traf­
fic— the five-ton and ten-ton . 
trucks of today were stiil far in 
the future—and yet these vet­
eran pavements have stood the; 
gaff of time, traffic and the ele­
ments for an average of 33; years.
When it comes your turn to. 
specify paving materials, re­
member that
CN£F N£Nn,

---------------------------------------------------

_.¦af vnT£OueOM£
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Try our.Speclal Lunche«—40o Special Ratea To Student»
LEA.RN TO DANCE
Jicques School of Dancing 'CRAIG AND FORBES STS. 
Beginners Monday and Frl- .day /Evenings. Advanced, Thursday . and Saturday EveBlngs. Private - lessons by oppolntment'MayflO'p 7891
TECH SHOE REPAIRING
Goodyear Welt System 
4523 rORBES STREET 
WE REPAIR RUBBER^""
Both'
'houid note that th isual fountain pen i 
ng at the singer Penn and Gift »hop, jenkms Arcade, 122 Fifth ivenue, downto*
and eld aluden* 
i get ui ¦vice by call-
THE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLACE FOR SNAPPY COLLEGIATE TOGS 
4618J/2 FORBES STREETNear Craig i
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C. M.STATrt?T
Oakland 
Savings £ Trust 
hsSpOMy
Member Federal 
Reserve System
14 The Oakland Bank”
Capital - - i C^''B'''~''B
Surplus-----$300,000.00;
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
First Church of Christ, 
^ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue I Sunday, U A. M. and 8 P.M. Wednesday, 8 P. M, Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Neville Street
, S. C., the preach-
BUTLEB'S »
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 ¿OUTH CRAIG STREET Wo Deliver All Ordera. . j.'-O. BAKER, Manager Mayflower 7844
RAINCOATS FOR MtN kNd IOMtN
Men’s, $6.00—Color: Grey.
Women’s, $6.50—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
- red.
Aufhanuner and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
Resists
T
HIS picture, taken, in the salt marshes near 
Kearny* N. J., shows two lines of 30-inch Ca6t Iron Pipe replacing pipe made of other- material.
'The alternate exposure to the action of 6alt water 
and air is a 6evere te$t. •
While the pipe shown in the picture is subjected to 
unusual corrosivc influences» all underground pipe- 
must be able to withstand corrosion to a greater or - lessdegree. Cast Iron Pipe has this quality. It does 
not'depend on its coating to resist rust; the material 
itielf is rust-resisting. The first Cast Iron Pipe ever 
laid is in service today at Versailles, France, after 
two hundred.and sixty years' service. -
s .,y mtln eciv ”gdy ”urDgTgnS 'ucytuB Peoples Gas Bldg., ChicagoCASI IRON PIPE
Our new bookltt,“P1an.. ning a Waterworks Sys­tem" which cooersthe problem of veter for the small town, will ie sentlife
Send/or booklet, ' "Cast * Iron Pipejor Industrial Semcifshtwingiuterest.ing \%‘Lfproll!tlsmee
LOP SIDED SCORES MARK I 
INTRA-MURAL OPENING
The latra-mural basketball. sea- >n officially opened'Iasi "Wednes; ly with eight teams going. into :tlnn before a small but. very :en-' thiiglustfc crowd.' A number ot de- recordedr dt
i- thethat' I•nly matched.. Several teams, Including Thl Kappa, Sigma Nu nd Alpha Tau Omega showed exc­ellent team work, which was Drab ibly due to consistent practicing'.Iu tho :Nallonal League, Alpha Tau Omega walloped Woodli Club with a score of 21-9. W<
third and last Quarters. Buck Keuster and Turner did some cellent individual playlug, althougn
plnyiug, the do\
Hawn Club, tbei client Individual ntall ot the teamtheir lack of
lr. Iho American League the score was also unbalanced. Phi Kappa outclased Miller Hall, de­feating them with a score of 28-13. Phi Kappa had a . well-oiled 
chine 'with Conuelly and W leading in the scoring. The 
teams were neck and neck until the third quarter, when Phi Kappa 
surged ahead. Kennedy was doing some good playing tor MUlei
/ill mnko a better allowing late; n in the season.
In tlie Central League thero was closor game witli McGill' Hall 
defeating Welch by. a score of. 1G-9.rather lifeless, prob ably due lo the lack of spectators; every one was on the other lloor watching Sigma Nu wallop S. P. £. McGill had fair team work with laucco and Wftfso lending In tho individual scoring. Welch Hal! 
led by Caplaln Seidel, who did some excellent playing, Delta Up- silon- met Thetn Xi Tuesday night, defeating them with a score ot 14- 12. The teams were well matched, both playing a fast,-good game.'
-deral League had tim ’eutlDg .gainer Sigma. Phi Epsilcn was defeated by Sigma n a fast and very rough gnme. score was 26-1-1 with S. P. E, the beginning.Slgm: had :.Wile
xcellet 
oden lendini
ics scheduled will be played i.nd Thursday
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
THE BASKET BALL team will week, meeting Rensselaer Tech on York on Saturday. Both of thoee t to date andare Tather .confident' of t
dlsolaved In the.first half of the Gi :cs of completing.the 
AyK total la ndw two ga •be played.' A brace
reellem
lay. and City College , of Nev. s boast of Impressive record« ability to annex the Carnegie
THE DEFEAT suffered''by the swimming1 qull'è e I plèasedthat bis groen- the crack Pitt outfit th single first place, a feat
Beukema had <
1 rom duplicating t
Sigma RhQ game •(
t> ^ollansbeo prevented them o the tape In the fltty-yard six Inches of winning tho
and Melzlner opposed to ea.ch other.
) WASH-JEFF\ \ost r exams, accordine it Carnegie losses,
> good football players by wa :ordlng to the Pittsburgh papers. Nothin
U'S challenge to hoaccepted by tbe un< .ame.) Rei " sight o( bloodshed i;ame.) Relatives of the pin:
ternity basket ball teams iated Thota Tau quint. (This will be
Tbe high spot of 1; the attempt made by of one of the Irloh
CARNEGIE PLEBES LOSE 
TO NEW CASTLE HI, 23-19
I SUl-
5 lastlay in a hard game on the Castle floor, 23 to 1 High school outfit piled u] sad in the first half, lea^ loor with tbo score. 16 to 7
The Plebes
nd Connelly t kis period.
6tride in the
; the big R
• New. Castle, Richards,:Me- i and Ottosky looked good, . Hartman. Connelly and were. Carnegie's best, bets. The lineup Qnd summary:Ifew Castle—23. Car. Tech—19._ Ider...... ;...F....... Hartman
:hnrds, .F......... BwvnMcGrath ...... .C........BondOstrosky . ;....G........ Pounders
liman ........................... GriffithSubs: . New Castle, Johnson for Richards. Tech, Nellson, Connel­ly. Gemmlll.
Id goals: Reldor 2. Richards3, McGrath 2. Oetroslcy 2, Slllman, rtman 2, Brown, Bond 2. Pound- , Connelly 2.’ouls:- New Castle 3 out of 4.* 3 out ot 5. .teferee: Smith, Now Brighton.
(CoiLyn«,tinned Fri foul shot, Ihujscore up to 25 lo 23 :vcr, the Plaid machint mapped out of it' and w aid of two rapid goals fror and'Hnrpster forged farther Now the Geneva aggregatlo: tomeback. and with the g ubfenstem and McKinney, i itil goals of Emerick and again came within two po
McGill Hall
MINNÉKÀHDA
MINNESOTA
W1N1FREDIAN
DEVONIAN
The only exclusively Tourist ' 
Third Cabin liners in the world. 
No other passengers carried.
MAJESTIC .World’s largest ship.
BELGENLAND Largest and finest ships to Ant- 
LAPLAND werp (Belgium).
Laigest uTotliist Third1* carriers 
CEDRIC s to.Liverpool (convenient port lor 
CELTIC ; Shakespeare country and English 
¦/ ! Lake District). '
DORIC REGINA largest “Tourist Third’* carriers 
MEGANTIC over the short, scenic St. Law- 
, LAURENTIC «nee ^verrout^,
of .our. ueunos whlcli will provide manyTouriMThirdC«bip ,
only for coU^e^people, busuwae and ¿rotational men and women and «imilw confenial oivelera.
¦ , Early reservation it recommended.
WHITE STAR LINE
RED STAB UMI LETLAND UNI
inantic ANsrpKT injE> ^ ?
L A MILLM. Union Trtut Building Pllttburghm
Sigma (7:;l0) (1).Beta Tlwta . Pi vs. Delta Pli Delta (7:30) (2).Henderson Hall vs. McGill Ha] (8:30) (1).- Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Scobcll Hal (8:30) (2).Wednesday, February 16. Alpha Sigma Phi vs. Welch Ha] (7:30) .(1).Acacia vs. Woodlawn Clu (7:30) (2).• Theta XI vs. Phi Kappa (8:30
HallSigm(8:30) (2)Thursday, February 17..
Delta Tau .Delta vs. Sigma Nu (7:30) (1).Phi Sigma Kappa
¦ (2).Alph Epsllom vs. Alpha Tau Omega (P:30) (1).Delta Upsllom vs. Miller Hall 
(8:30) (2). V
ASSEMBLY TOPRESENT MUSIC .OF ARTS BALL
'(Continued From Page One)*' Ruth Aston; Dou McLure and Clarita Stevens; Victor Eskér and 
the Morylk girls.- The novel program at the As­sembly is an. instance' .in the a,u tempt/ of th^ .Studenl Council to improVè.the General;'Assemblies thl9 y«ar. The schedule, which in­cludes four General Assemblies for the "coming, semester, was pre­pared by Dean Taroell and ap- .proved • by.- the Executive: Board. One of tbe General. Assemblies will occur In Campus Week. The
April-5.-iaQd: tyay :12.:
White . Harpster Lynch ..
whole the Carnegie team a wonderful game from finish, except for the short i the first part of the sec- f. The Plaid team played 
¦st offensive game of . this and throughout most of the outpassed,. outsmarted and their opponents. Harp- I Lynch were the outstand- re of the Plaid, Harpster uncanny shoollng, and for his beautiful guard Rubenstein and Clarke the outstanding game for eva combination, 
ummaries are as''folIows: 
gie—34. Geneva—20.i .........F......... Friedman... Rubenstein
••TechGeneve...................-23 11—34......:....... 12 17—2!)
Field goals—Ammans 2, White4, Harpster 4, Lynch 2, Hurd, Ru­benstein 4, Emerick 2, Clarke 2.Foul goals—Animaus 1 out of 1, Wliite. 2 out of 2, Harpster 1 out of 3, Lyncli' 2 out of 4, Hurd 1 out of 3, Hitchcock 1 out ot 1, Fried­man none out of'l, Rubenstein 4 out of 5, Emerick'5 out of 6, Clarke 1 out of 2, Bruce 1 out of 1. -'Substitutions — Merriman for Emerick, Bruce for Friedman, Hitchcock, for Lynch McKinney for Bruce, Lynch for Ammons, Crum for Lynch, Merriman for Lloyd,Friedman for McKinney.Referee—Beggs Snyder.
Umplre-rBuck Baird.. in the preliminary game tlie Plehe quint lost to the Geneva Re­serves by. the . one-sided score of 41-23. The Plebes did not display the brand of ball which they are capable, ot playing,' mlsslhg many shots- and displaying a lack of snap in th^fr passing.
The game was- listless with neither ^eam- displaying any' bril­liance. Duncan and Meenlck fea­tured the attack of tbe Reserves •For Carnegie, ther& were no out-
The Plebes were, behind dt .the end ot the first half continuing so throughout the'game. At no: time was the Reserves'-lead In danger.
Hartman
. Pounders . Cohnellÿ
j'2..Nevins 2. Brow
RIFLE TEAMS FIRE IN 
IMPORTANT MATCHES
he varsity rifle team resumed 
schedule by firing against 
rgetown and Gettysburg lest 
k. Gettysburg wos the first oP- 
eut for Carnegie In Uie N. R. A. 
;ue matches. The plebe team 
< fired a match with tbei U. S.
Acadhmen and 
S., Washington, D. C.
ind silting
reports have i these malclio
This was 
match. N colved froiThis week the varsity fl agaliist MRBsachuSetls Tech s Dennison University, Massac setts Tech Is the second N. R. league match. The plebe te fires another prone and sltt. match, against the Wei freshmen aiid Delaware Univer­sity freshmen this week.
There will be H meeting or tho Carnegie rifle club or Wednesday afternoon at 5:20 ip the Y. M. C. A. club room in Industries build­ing. Anyone wishing to join the 
rifle club should come to this meet­ing. Plebes who are Interested In rifle shooting should Join now.
MANOR THEATER
Harold Llovd la bis latest com- [Thui cdy drama, -Th« Kid- Brother/* Men. holds the scrren. at tbe Mauor The-.I OUv<
day and Friday. "Thi 
with tieorge O’Brien and Horden The story of tho
This Is the Age of Specialization
Eve^y ambitious youth Is attending College for that (
SO IT IS WITH US 
We specialise In Renting the Latest Styles In Up- 
to-date Quality'Tuxedos for the College Man.
opeatat or tbe Indian Jaadr (o the-white 6t!ttlera and the part the 
threo bod men playad. Saturday. \V. Lv Fields • In - "Tbe- Potters." the story'ot n v©ry poor. famlly ,wno sirucK it ricn in oil and tbo. excltemL^ that .follows. - r •
members, ild members. This gh hers range privileges with no expense for i During the year tli usually has several social
$1.00 a year
Carnegie'equfppecride
' goals—Plebes, 6 out' of .14; out of 12. Suborna­tions—Griffith; Klein, Brown, Gen- Heckert, Lippe, Barns. . Ref- I—Bair, Snvder. •
Whittington Dress Suit Ço.
Day—Grant 2604—PHONE—Night—Laf
- I’ve got a half-nelson 
on jimmy- 
pipejoy
I____
I TOOK P. A. fof better or worse . « , and 
found it better! Better than anything I had 
ever smoked. That’s my story and I*m going 
to stick to it. When siren-brands try to flirt, I 
just give them the Frigidstaire. I know what 1 
like in a pipe, and what 1 like is Prince Albert!
The instant you break the seal on the tidy red 
tin and get that wonderful fragrance of real 
tobacco, you know you are in for a pipe-treat. 
Your mouth fairly waters for a taste of tobacco 
that smells as good as that. Then you load up 
and light up—ah! . • .
Cool. Sweet. Fragrant. Old words, I’ll ad­
mit, but you get a brand-new idea of how much 
they can meah in a pipe-bowl packed with P. A. 
Maybe you’ve always thought such plpe-plea- 
sure was "just around the corner.” Try a load 
of Prince Albert and turn that comer!
Fringe Albert
FRANK BROTHERSfifth Avenue Bool Síiop
Permanent exhibit Shop 
Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh
—no other tobacco is like it!
On
Timken Bearings
In tlie epic history of the railroads a new 
chapter opens. Cars regularly equipped with 
anti-friction bearings are here. Timken 
Bearings make it pôssible. Thé first standard 
Timken-equipped cars go into operation on 
the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul.
Timken Tapered Roller Bearings for this 
-progressive railroad’s crack flyers,THE :LVDSAHE 
and U.R NAYERRT 0ADAiRQB mark the day of new 
ease, quiet arid surety in long distance travel.
On guard against the wear and'waste of 
friction, Timken Tapered Roller Bearings not 
only conserve power, but put an end to hot 
boxes and the whole'lubrication difficulty.
Steel wheels speeding steel grades and curves 
cause stresses which have been thought beyond 
anti-friction bearings. Here again, as in every 
other type of mechanism, throughout Industry, 
the “impossible” has yielded to Timken 
design, construction, and resources.
THE TIMK.EN ROLLER BEARING CO., CANTON,-OHIO
TIMKEN SHEARINGS

---------------------------------------------------

3Br$nnglf2btan
PBONE HATTLOWBB Fobltibcd «mb mir wwk dQrlQK Uia eeUega nv hr ««der* ¦ndoatea ef CwmI« loAltvte of TwbBok.iT. Entered In tb* Pltttbmgh Pert Oftc«,M'wcoBd<Ui» Biatfrr.___________.
• _r EDITORIAL STAFF ”T
Editor-In-Chief ......................Merrill HolllnuheartManaging Editor.........................................Sam WellNews .Editor..........................................Fraocla KolbAthietic.EdJtor........................Frederick' D. :Wooda
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS '
Elleoor Tallmadge Robert1' M. PewRaesell Bullloger Harold JacobsonRalph Hitchcock Barto GrUELosA .E. Fisher Eugene ^Scaolon ~W;' Bernard
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredith-Stump Milton CohenFenton Flan , JeanRoy
ALUMNI EDITORS Margaret Russell ' Herbert Graa
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin Helen ReedJosephine Clark‘John Schneide/
REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Bob Voting ' Clyde ParkJoseph G. Ritter' Miriam Margolis W. Henderson Harry Widom Henry Bunker Catharine Boyd Cyril Letxelter. Ruth Bramson Sid. Warner " ^ W. H. Worland ' Eugene Jarema Paul' Droste William McNeil Helen WhitebHl W. W. HayKatharine Q'Donnell' Thomas LIppert
BUSINESS STAFFBusiness Manager..........................Arnold FerretoaCirculation Manager................................B. SupowltzAdvertising Manager....................Shelby McMllllon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert T. R. Zenk R. Noble
. CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
h. Sacks G. W. BrahmBt J. R. BrownH. Kandell A, Teplit« H. L. MarshallB. Wedner C. El Blaes M. Mallnlck G. C. Harbison
¦BSÄ!“
EDITORIAL COMMENT
This is our annual Advertising Issue of the 
“Tartan." To give the student body the ben­
efits of good advertising, ihc knowledge of 
where to go when you buy, and of what to buy 
when you get tliere, wcjiavc decided to give 
ADVERTISING the important place in todayJs 
issue. Some of our regular editorial page 
features have been omitted this week, but thej* 
will be resumed upon the next appearance of 
the “Tartan.” May wc add, patronize our 
advertisers.
In last week’s “Tartan,” under thc;eaption
are, and was inclined to conclude thtit improve­
ment caDJpuigus and exhortation were futilo 
unless the whole scheme oi things would be 
changed. The solution is a matter of en­
trance requirements and curriculue making.-
Since the publishing of this editorial, several 
students have volunteered to interpret the va­
rious Carnegie Colleges in tlie light of the edi­
tor^ generalizations. They will document the 
Carnegie of 192G-27, writing down things as 
they observe them, agreeing or disagreeing 
with prevailing opinion as the case may bc.‘ 
It is the hope of the editors that Carnegie 
“under the searchlight” will be a stimulating 
proceeding for the entire student body, as it 
will undoubtedly be for the writers. r'*
In the “Tartan” of February 22, the first of 
these essays will appear; the vcontribulor will 
be from Art School.
LIMITATIONS 
OF GERMANY 
THE LEAGUE
Allies Have- Given up At­
tempt to Control Arma­
ment ofGermany
AlTITUDE CHANGES
An interesting sidelight on 
gioie Glee Club contest on Frida,
of "Carnegie Tech,” the editor undertook to Carnegie Music Ilall, New York City. At this
—......t the doings of this campus iii the light latter event, glee clubs of the prestige of the
1 that Harvard, Yale «nd.Dartmouth CIiof facts us he observed them. Ho found ; 
there was present lierc a certain medioi 
standards, a great deal of smoke' but 
little fire; in'short, that Carnegie is grooved 
v into a traditional campus existence that is 
.perfunctory and crude. Further, he attempted 
to trace-the reasons for things being as they
Harvard, Yale «nd.Dartmiubs will sing,
ed to recognize good singing. The- Carnegie 
Club went “high-brow” this year for the first 
time in its history, and this is an important 
' step in the establishing of a glee dub tradition 
.which is to more than a stunt project.
(Continued From Page One.) 
president o£ the'Senior class, cutf tain of the varsity basketball, a Dragon, a member Science .Senate and .Eta Kappa Nu.John Chldoster, Senior l£l?clri
OTsa&iUitlon editor of the Thisile last year.James Power is presJuenl of the AmeH'/an Institute of.. Electrical Engineers, a member of Sigrnn Phi Epsilon social, Scabbard and 
Blade and Eta Kappa Nu.
Albert O. Horner, Juniata; Mrs. George R.'Deike and Mrs. Ambrose N. Diehl, Penn State; Thyrsa Amos and Mre. John rtwman, University of Pitts­burgh; and Mrs. Lee D. Hemlng- 
and Mrs. Robert M. Gibson
Clai
miry i, cnplaJn oi•25. He IsDruid and a member of TUeU X;.Donald Davldscn, Senior Com mereiai.' is n, member Sigma Alphe Epsilon social^ aud Thau Tau. ' Robert Nelbel. Scnior’ Commer­cial, fs a member of Beta Theta Pi, 
Society of Industrial Engineers, and TheLa Tan. —•
PICTURE OP “THE. BEAN- 
E-fiY" AROUSES INTEREST 
AT LOCAL EXHIBITION
(Continued from Page One) prize'' last year. It Is Miss Mars- den's desire to bring still furthei glory to Carnegie by her future
of ili;1' exhibition is
i hi this group <
well 1white depà
> black ; isisl/iig
i W. and J.
chai1 of.ftf-
manager of the Glee- Clab; -rill Holliushend, student dlrec and Thomas N. Griggs, Tepre ting Carnegie;'George A. Doyle lrm/ui, of I>enn State; Roy G itwlck, Bucknell; Albert 0. Hor- 
, Juniata; John M. Russell Charles M. Ray, rhan^ger of 1
ii. Notre . Dame; third, Cronin otre Dame. Time—: 25 3:5. 160-yard hack stroke—Won, b:
1 free style—Won by Me-
Germany has thrown oft one ore provision of the Treaty . of Versailles. The former Allies given up their long attempt to control the military armament of Germany. This control was ex-
thp limits Bet by the treaty. This change in. Germany's international position is a'result of an agree­ment which was reached at Geneva
iy is able ) or three
i that.
100-yard breast e McLaughlin, Notre Rhodes, Notre Dam Carnegie. Tlme-
ARCADIANS TO
PLAY FRIDAY
FOR GREEKS
'rldav.night, will have concluded 's program by 10 o'clock, which 
nil leave ample *ime for attend- ncc Cit the. Formal. . <
divulged, but an i created which led i
jilea is Usued
ror the dunce before the Formal.Ready? Dancing i Next Friday night a
etchings, lithograph! and other graphic media. Willlau Wolfersoa, of Tech,-is repvesentet in this section.W. A. nc-adio, a professor o painting and decoration In tin Arts School, is aliso represented ii (he exhibition.
GLEE CLUB TO
(Continued from Page One)
is the music editor of the Pitts­burgh Press; and -Earnest Lunt is the director -of the- Mendelssohn choir of Pittsburgh. The Judging of songs, which will be based oil a scalo of 100, will be computed as follows: The choice song will re; celve 30 points; the "Prize" song, 60 points, and the College song. 20 points. The selection wlli. be |u<l;cd according to tone, enuncla- . tlon, ensemble. interpretation, and 
' pitch. .T^e honor» will be named as.firat prize and honorable men-
submitted aa patrone^6efl for the-Those Includcci. Mne.. -Samuel Harden «Church; .chairman, and' ' Mra: John L. Porter repre­
senting »V-' '3Sl'.!*’^-'3,v,-:Pngfie and Ulu Marv I ^ower
style—Won by
200-yard relay—Won by Peabody (Ackerman, Aldprislo, Reilly. Wool- ridge); second, Carnegie (Blazitas, Bossier. Wray, Edwards). Time— 1:65 4-5.
Diving—Won by Bassler, Carne­gie; second, Simpson. Peabody; third, Doyle, Peabody. . . '
50-yari free, style—Won by Ed­wards, Carnegie; second, , Smith, Peabody; third, Wray,- Carnegi« Time—: 27 2-5' 
l-00-ya.nl back stroke—Won by Woolridge, Peabody; second. Bl* 2ltas, Carnegie; third, Reed, Pea-
220-yard free ‘ style—Woi Ackerman. Peabody; second, ley, Peabody; third, McDei Carnegie. Time—2:54 2-j»..no«.
100-yard breast stroke—Won by Sangster, Carnegie; second, Gai vey, Peabody; third, Logan, Peo body. Time—1:25 3-5.
100-yard free style — Won b; Woolridge, Peabody; second, Ed
body. Time—:60 3-5. ’ y’ Point score: Peabody,35, Cat
times this limit It the Allies are willing for this con­dition to exist, and it seems that this .la an acknowledgement that the terms of the Treaty of. Ver­sailles were loo atrlct in regard the limits which were placed on a ry ot the size of Germany, 
he second-place Germany has l.lo demolish within the next months 3 of the 65 fortiaca- tlons which are placed on the east- frontier. and they funher to erect no'more such fortl- >ns in the eastern region. It lought that this part of the raent may help to quiet the' fears which Poland has hi gard to Germany.-'
T^ie last part of the agreement iB to do with the importation, th< cportatlon and the manufactur«! arms by Germany. Umltatiom *e to be put .on these actlvltle:/ ineans of laws passed by ihi Reichstag. . x
As Germany .Is how a full mem >er of-thet League .of Nations and ias a regular seat on the perm&n^ iiit Council, 11 appears that'her po- Ittoa is .much .stronger in regard o matters- and regulations which re onerous to her and which she
omarkalile change In the attitude ow-ard Germany in the past three 'ears,-which Is largely a result of he change which has takas place in Premier Poincare of France and
• ' {Continued from Page One) n>ii-iiings of Thursdny. Fi lday, and Saturday. Some changes will be nade in the policy of the publica- ion. ns it is the desire of this
ì Week comic she
.be fmahcçd" by adv culntlon, .th? price jivobiiJily to be flvi tempt will ba mad<
mltory .groups, likewise In- 
adequati1 .distribution ' In •anlzàtion*i. .Campus aalet i be handled as in previous
(Continued worn page One)' Notre Dame; third, Hornbostel,.Carnegie..'-... ViG^yard free ^tvle—^ori^bv: F^ol- 
’{inabee Carnegie, second Brcyp
Notes of MusicBy Allan V. Nem
Deifis, Ted Shawn and the Deni 
ahawn Dancera at Syria Most|u< on the last' Saturday eve'ulng o tills month will b» one of the mosi
and crowds will welcome this com pany of AnierJcan dancers wbe) they appear In the closing Editl Taylor Thomson Concert for this season. During the long tour o the Far East ttom which me com pany returned in Decemoer, tb< entire ensemble received- grea
Japan to India and - back t< Shanghai, the > dancing of thl: handsome young American .was : sensation, especially In. Japan) tin country .whose school ofdanc^is thousands of years old.
Hochl Shlmbum of Toklo v "We have found the Ideal type of dancer in Mr. Shawii. His beau­tiful and perfectly trained /body has made a great Impreasloii. He ;ls by far, the greatest dancer .Japan
INTERCOLLEGIATE CONTEST
There .wlll be plenty ot youth- (ul enthUBlà^m- at'^he .^ntercoUdgl- ate .Gleo Cl^ib conleat ;whlch’ .will.
Chai&e to the)
ninordMUMIWESTER UNION
.CUNORCn
¦ MfiHf ME8SMEiRLtJHD ¦
tittreCHWpffff"fw* OEonoéw,tAima,nnT«itB«mraiNr
CHECK
fULMULTÇ TElfnitlU .
imtniD
¦i
B on bsckbcrcoi' whidi are b
DOHâlD DAM0D
One man tells another
STRAND THEATER
'‘Wings of the Storm e screen at Stanley.will bold owland & 
Wecfnea-
c befriended by one others passed him >g eventually brings
Going Crooked," -jvlth BesBle 
pCéT and Oscar Shaw. The story
m adventuress. Selected come, lies and news events with each
:elleni
Plan. Many people have ihe ides that this plau has settled for one« for all the German reparations reos all that'was done by Uu
would be able to -m nothing definite as t size of the paymei
This one there is i tie the an tlie war < the amou
froiwhlclGerrFraupe might find
years than there would be re°paia- tlons. forthcoming from Germany as a source to meet these pay-
BARTON GRIFFISS.
take place at Carnegie on Friday. Febiuary 18 o( the clubs in the c 
have Us own particulai GroupB will come from ; Juniata,* Washington a
of Carnegieed to the folio 
Tech and Pitt’ will give .the'concert aii atmosphere of joy., This Is the first cpi 
held In Pennsylvania and Pitts­burgh Is fortunate to have It., ii other years clubs from this S.tati have, entered , the national contest sheld. annuo.lly' in -^Tew York, .but rnever.‘j)efore- has a State contest
His text-book was
a freight -car
tracks to get 
factsforhisthesis 
in 1918, he was 
only following a 
lifelong Habit. 
From the time he- was old 
etiought to delight in the shrill 
whistle of a locomotive, chraugii 
his'-student days af California 
Inscicute of Technology, the 
• most fascinating thing in the 
vvoYld to him was a railroad train.
1 It isn’t just happy chance that, 
at 29, he-is a Sales Engineer in 
the Transportation" Division of 
the Wesringhou$e, Company, at 
Philadelphia. And it was quite 
natural that Bercaw should have 
an important share in the ne­
gotiations.involving, one ofNthe 
most1 revolutionary transportar 
don developments of the century 
— the ^development of thè gas- 
clectric rari car. -
This design proyicìes. locomo- 
tion 'widùn the passenger car.
itself. So on many branch lines 
locomotives can be discarded' 
with great saving to railroad 
companies and with .increased 
convenience to passengers.
But to perfect this -flew car 
required thorough cooperation' 
be.tween the Wes.tinghouse arid 
Brill .Companies, whose engi­
neers supplied, respectively, the 
electric generator and gas engine 
•which, combined, .give this-car 
its practical advantages. Bercaw 
acted as a liaison man during' 
this development stage, ^nd
----- he is \ngaged in selling,
among ^ther things, these cars» 
representing the newest idea in 
railroad transportation.
When Bercaw entered the 
Graduate Students’ Course at 
East Pittsburgh in May, 1919, 
Ke ^as fresfi from college—and 
naval aviation'. ' His enthusiasm 
for railroading was not allowed 
to cool-—he wasn’t shunted into 
unfamiliar, lines. For thirteen 
months he was a student in the 
Railway Shops. Then for six 
months in th^ General Engineer­
ing Department ,h£ learned'how 
to apply Westinghduse Equip­
ment to railroad needs. It was a 
logical step next to the Heavy 
Traction Division of the Sales 
Department at East Pittsburgh. 
And two ,and a-KSl? years there' 
landed him in his important 
work in Philadelphia.
. To men who find a railroad 
train fascinating, Westinghouse • 
opens', a field that has unlimited 
opportunities for' success. :
Westinghouse
