Volume IVDECEMBER 8, 1909Number 12
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
®UbU5HMtKLYWTUDÈIIT5
Of TU E
Vo luVo meIN lbNlbr 1

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
0*0%OVO\ONO\O*0SD*0\0*0%0*ON0%0*0%0*$ S
ó
o 8THE RITTENHOUSE t
0*0*80*0*0*0«0«0*0X0
V0*0*0*0*0$s*0V$
———________________________________ - 2
VAffords Superior Facilities for g 
Serving Dinners, Balls §
and Banquets.
l(T kM.. NHHJ c.HHC is cus(iHnTd 
JMking it pTCcTct cHC dMncing.
opTciM. VnducTJTnts tH otudTnts g 
Hc CMCnTgiT lTc(. 0in----------------------------------8---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------—
*KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE—
**0%0X0\0*0\0*0\0*0*0\0\0*0*0X0*0X0X0
4^*i*0-M24^0*i'0*>0^4^4<^04*0-fr0-fr04'04-0^*i0V i0 y* 0
JHsTp( uHCnT CH.,
o PITTSBURG’S FOREMOST UPTODATE *
O DRY GOODS STORE
0 We desire to say to young men and women 
0 that fashionable clothes for young people are 
a the dominant features of this store.
* Next to variety is that other important mat- •f*ó ter. close-to-cost prices.A5 Our new lines of Ssuits for young men, and 
our new lines of Suits for young women show 
^ that perfection which can only be attained by 
0 faultless workmanship.
$ Then, all young people are interested in the•|r-0 Accompaniments of correct dress, the furnish- 
ings as they have come to be called. Rely 
f upon us for up-to-the-moment styles.
0 Best way to judge a store is by a personal 
0 visit.
04<*'04<^04*04<^04^04<S4*04*04'>04*04-04'04*04'
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
IROQUOIS
Where all the “TECH BOYS” go.
A Gold Enamel Tech Button iree with all pur­
chases of $3.00 and over.
Open Evenings
*t4-
4*
4***
4-*
4*
4-
4*
4-
4-
4*
4*
4-
4***4**
4«
4*
The Park Bank
Pittsburgh
DO YOU EXPECT TO SUCCEED?
SURE—Then open an account in the 
Park Bank.
J. S. SWARTZ, Cashier.
*
4**
4-
4*
4*
4*
4«*t
4-
4*
4-
4**
4*
4-
4**
4*
4«I
\ KAERCHER S DRUG STORE
H. R. Scott, Manager
Drugs, Cigars, Soda Water, Stationery, Post 
Cards, Etc., Etc.
PRESCRIPTIONS
5 Full Line of Fancy Smokings
6 Cor. Craig and Forbes St. - Pittsburg, Pa.
ó Phones: Bell 1456 Schenley
$ P. & A. 303 Park.
wwvwwwswwvwvwwwwx ssssiV
G4*04*04*04-04‘04-04*04-04*04-04‘04*04*04'04"04'04>04'
0 
4**0 4**0 
4**0 +*
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Cleaners and % 
Dyers
£ 608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsbjrg.
6102 Penn Avenue, East Liberty 4**
Both Phones.
«|k>ì»04»04»O4,<34*04,04»04,04»04,04»04»04»04,04»04»04,0
YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

Athletic Association Bankrupt
PLAN SWEEPING CHANGE IN MANAGEMENT
VOL. IV(TIk (lnCtnn
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1909Number 12
That the crisis in the athletic affairs of Carnegie 
Tech has been reached during the past two weeks, 
has been made very Evident by developments during 
the past two weeks. The Association is bankrupt. 
Every contract signed during the present state of 
affairs is an act of bankruptcy. The Association is 
in debt to the extent of $11,500. The coach’s salary 
of $1,200 has not been paid; $450 is past due Colgate 
for the Thanksgiving game, and Spalding and the 
Sportsman’s Supply Co., have not had their bills paid 
for the last two seasons. A note to Booth & Flinn 
of $4,500 for grading done in connection with the 
field comes due in June, and the present treasurer 
has not enough money in his treaury to pay the coach 
the $300 of his salary voted him at the last regular 
meeting of the Board of Control. The Athletic As­
sociation’s credit is entirely exhausted, and the good 
name of the Institution is in danger of being impaired 
by the state of affairs.
Meeting of Board of Control.
At the second regular meeting of the Board held 
last Wednesday, the first inkling of the gravity of the 
situation was made apparent to the members by the 
report of Treasurer John Charles. Stating that at 
the time he was unable to make an entirely complete 
report owing to the fact that many of the bills con­
tracted during the past season, as well as some 
money owing to the Association, had not been re­
ceived, he would give a report close enough to the
/actual to let the members know how things stood. 
He then proceeded to give the board the report al­
ready partially quoted, and asked the Board for sug­
gestions as to how the money was to be raised. There 
are threé sources of income to the Association: the 
student activity fund, gate receipts and donations. 
All of the money coming from the first has been 
drawn and the second is all in. One member still 
clinging to the donation rumor, insisted that he pos­
sessed inside information to the effect that money 
was coming from a well known philanthropist on con­
dition that the field would be named in his honoc. In 
spite of the denials “The Tartan” has made of the 
genuineness of these rumors, the Board passed a 
motion creating a committee to interview the Di­
rector and the Board of Trustees, and to secure per­
mission from them to name the field if they got this 
gentleman to make the donation. The only hope of 
the Board of meeting the deficit rested on the result 
of the committee’s success.
Director Hamerschlag Consulted.
A few minutes conversation with the Director 
blasted the somewhat sanguine hopes of the commit­
tee. He first stated that in the matter of hoping for 
some donation as already announced in the Pittsburg 
papers, he had no knowledge of any offer being made 
the Schools, and there was very good reason why it 
would be impossible for the committee to get any 
business man to make the donation. The field is on

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
property belonging to the City of Pittsburg, and the 
Board of Trustees would have no authority to 
guarantee that any one name would be permanently 
retained. In addition to this, the plans for the future 
extention of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School 
do not extend along Woodlawn avenue, but cover the 
ground now being used as the field. Our present 
gridiron is in its place by courtesy of the Board of 
Trustees pending further building operations, and 
may be used by them or the architects for other pur­
poses any time they so desire. Under these cir­
cumstances the’fallacy of any such “donation theory” 
can be appreciated.
After commenting on the running of athletic affairs 
by the faculty and giving many of the reasons for 
their failure, he took up the discussion of having a 
business manager employed as manager of the 
finances and business of the Association, and the 
question of whether such a man should be a graduate 
or an older and consequently more experienced man. 
Among the duties of such a business manager would 
be the management of benefits of various kinds dur­
ing the winter and spring, and perhaps some method 
of financing the debts, as a means of clearing up 
pressing obligations.
Board of Control Gives Up Its Power.
President Hatcher of the Athletic Association 
called a special meeting of the Board of Control last 
Friday night, and placed the matter before the mem­
bers. After much discussion a resolution reading as 
follows was passed:
“It is the sense and recommendation of this 
Board of Control that a business manager be 
employed to manage the finances and general 
athletics which are under control of this board, 
and that the board act as an advisory com­
mittee subordinate to this business manager.”.
This in substance is the surrendering of all control 
power into the hands of one individual who will as­
sume all responsibility, and who will be selected for 
his business ability. All representatives were sent 
back to their classes with a written copy of the 
resolution and are to return to the meeting of De­
cember 8, with authority to vote the measure into 
official existence. It is the only plausible solution 
of the difficulty into which they have been thrown.
Board Not to Blame.
This state of affairs cannot be laid at the door of 
the present Board of Control. The sinking of the 
money furnished by' the students into the two tem­
porary fields (the present Forbes Field and Tech 
Field) was the work of the faculty and student joint 
committee of the old Athletic Association committee. 
The Board now has to shoulder the debts incurred 
by its predecessors, and can in no way be blamed 
for the deficit other than the fact that they did not 
assume control sooner.
Constitution Must be Revised.
In order to make the change effective, the clauses 
in the present constitution vesting so many powers in 
the Board of Control will evidently have to be 
changed so as to make it an advisory committee to 
the business manager. Since the adopted constitu­
tion provides for its amendment by vote of the mem­
bers, the change will not be a simple thing to make 
and will have to be referred back for the action of 
the different classes as was the original document. 
In this case time may be lost.
SOLITUDE.
Les dermiers rayons dorés du soleil couchant 
Caressent ma tempe fatiguée et martelante,
Comme les soupirs douloureux dans un coeur mourant 
Pressurent la vie d’une âme triste et soufrante.
Dans ma chambrette solitaire, sombre bagatelle, 
Gémit la bise plaintive les harmonies d’Eole, 
Comme le son des larmes brûlantes qui tombent dans 
le ciel
Quand les anges pleurent languissants une vie qui 
s’envole.
La foule bourdonne, marotte, mille vagues ébranlées 
Frappent profondément mon coeur, sanglotant débris, 
Comme larmoyants souvenirs et poignants regrets 
Balbutient autour d’un nom jeté dans l’oubli.
Je vois le monde qui m’entoure, j’entends son délire, 
Je lui parle et j’agis tout interesse;
Mais à moi comme mélodies pour l’oreille dure,
Et les fleurs en mille nucances sont à l’oeil ferme.
Comme une étincelle lancée aux profonds ténèbres 
L’éteint et meurt dissolve hors de tout rappel: 
Ainsi le coeur tout navré, un tombeau funèbre,
Sans l’Amour s’anéantit, l’Amour éternel!
Dr. Schapper.
THE CLUB HOUSE.
The presidents of the Senior classes in the day 
and night schools met with the Faculty Committee 
and decided upon the best method of running our 
new club house. It was decided that a committee 
consisting of six student members be appointed by 
the presidents of the Senior classes in the day and 
night schools from within their classes, this com­
mittee to have entire charge of the running of the 
house. All of the members have not as yet been 
appointed. It is hoped by the Faculty Committee 
that all the names will be turned in at once in order 
that the Faculty may turn the house over the stu­
dents before Christmas. The following men have 
already been appointed:
Science Day—H. A. Neel.
Design Day—G. E. Mitchell.
A. & J. Day—A. E. Johns.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
ON “MEASURES AND WEIGHTS.”
By Dr. Schapper.
Phimitive Man with only a handful of experiences 
in his possession, and with little or no sense for 
private property, could not have had much use for 
“measures,” which operation is a product of, and 
proportional, to civilization. And the more “things” 
are known the more “measures” will there be, i. e., 
for every “thing” a standard of its own kind. More- 
oved, for the same “thing”differeht standards will 
have to be used in order to comply with the demands 
of practicability. For instance, a long distance will 
require another standard than the short distance, 
and so will a large bulk of a substance want a stand­
ard different from the one used for small quantities. 
And similarly with everything measurable; so that 
the number of standards for the different things soon 
reaches a magnitude which is the larger the more 
complex and varied civilization becomes. When a 
thing is so far in our graps that we can measure it, 
and we choose a standard for it, we are led by prac­
tical considerations which lie within our horizon. Be­
sides, the choice of standards is perfectly arbitrary 
as to their magnitude, and we take, after little or 
much deliberation, what appears to us to be the 
most practical. Unfortunately we find out, sooner 
or later, that, taken the whole system in all, the 
thing is not practical after all, and this for various 
reasons. First, we discover that there are relations 
between the different measurable things, measurable 
relations, which therefore permit great simplifications 
in the chosen standards, but which we overlooked. 
Second, the relations among the different standards 
of the same kind have not been chosen in a rational 
way, which is to be based on the system of numbers 
in use, whatever that system may be. These two 
points being neglected, we find ourselves in a wild­
erness of standards involving, besides, much labor 
in the arithmetic part of the work of measuring.
What are we to do? Two possibilities come in 
our way and point the direction to be taken: either 
overhaul the old system and put it on the basis of 
the new enlightenment, or discard it altogether and 
replace it by a new, rational one which may or may 
not be in use somewhere or by somebody else. Ex­
perience will teach which alternative we are to 
choose.
This, in short, is the actual state of the British 
System of Measures and Weights, albeit its imper­
fections have been felt since long. Who does not 
know the irrationality of this system? And who is 
so exceedingly little as to subscribe to .such utter­
ances as the ones here quoted, viz.: “Anglo-Saxon 
nations are blessed with substantial uniformity of 
weights and measures, while others are cursed with 
a confusion that is a reproach to their civilization.” 
“With their system of weights and measures as a 
foundation (sic), the English-speaking peoples have 
built up the greatest -commercial and industrial 
structure the world has known.” “They are asked
to enter the slough of despond in which metric Eu­
rope wallows in order to help metric Europe out. 
They are asked to destroy the very warp and woof (!) 
of their own vast industrial fabric in order that they 
may assist in weaving another of alien origin and 
with no resulting gain except to aliens.” “We hear 
much of the unity of the Anglo-Saxon race—unity in 
language, in customs, in laws, in popular govern­
ment, in progress, in ideals, in civilization. In no­
thing is this unity more marked than in (guess!) 
weights and measures—the foundation (sic) of that 
commercial and industrial structure which others 
may imitate but cannot copy. Representative of 
their historic methods of development, foundation of 
their industrial life and bond of union between all 
sections—shall all these be destroyed for this French 
fad?” And similar lightbeams. Don Quixote-ic, nay, 
it makes the impressions as if reading an antisemi- 
tic pamphlet.
The question has come up (or else we must say 
that “The Metric Fallacy” is fighting the wind-mills), 
and we are to give it due consideration. It is diffi­
cult to see how one could be otherwise than calm 
in such questions; any other behaviour would be a 
menace to good faith, or to clear judgment, or to 
both. What is it all about? I don’t see how pa­
triotic, or national sentiment could in any way be 
hurt if our “foot” or any other nation’s foot is taken 
as a standard of length. Or is this the characteristic 
paramount of the Anglo-Saxon race? Puerile and 
—children are not always broad-minded, nor are they 
too wide-hearted either. If for nothing else but for the 
fact that we strive to establish an international sys­
tem of weights and measures the efforts are highly 
commendable. And it does not matter which is 
taken as the standard unit. There is nothing of in­
trinsic worth in a standard; it is an agreement only. 
The importance of a system lies in its rational con­
cordance with the system of numbers in interna­
tional use, and in the rational choice of “derived” 
units.
Having recognized this essential point let us see 
why it is not desirable to fit the old system to the 
imposed demands. First of all it is clear that the 
choice of the old standards not being rational it will 
be difficult to make the old system conveniently an­
swer to the new, rational demands. Many instances 
can be cited. • And if it so chances that there al­
ready exists a system complying with the demands 
of both Science and Practice, a system on which 
considerable valuable labor has been spent already, 
why, so much the luckier for us. Let us be wise and 
profit by the experience of others, and let us not be 
so infinitely narrow as to throw away the good be­
cause it comes not from our own. A Laplace, La­
grange, Galilei, Cauchy, Poincare, etc.—luminaries in 
whose blaze “The Metric Fallacy” with their authors 
dwindle into comparatively insignificant littleness— 
these are the common property of mankind.
Of course, we know that things can never be radi­
cally changed over night. It is not a new discovery 
that the readjustment of conditions takes time. But

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
we know that what we shall gain in the end: sim­
plicity and uniformity.
As long as there exist several systems of weights 
and measures will there also exist the difficult and 
dry labor of transposing from one system into an­
other. For there is no sound reason to say that man 
has, so to speak, “absolute pitch” for the inch, and 
none for the centimeter. In handling a meter scale 
a few times one will just as naturally and intelli­
gently speak and think in centimeters as in the case 
of the use of an inch scale. And again, we can just 
as little imagine, or instantly picture before our 
mind’s eye at 1-32 or 1-16 of an inch as is the case 
with small decimal fractions. It is practice, all in 
all. No intelligent, unbiased mind can fail to see 
the superiority and the advantage of the metric sys­
tem of weights and measures above the British 
System.
I care not to give examples. Those who are inter­
ested in the subject will find enough material in 
text-books of Physics, or Geometry. I only wish to 
add that the examples adduced by those against the 
Metric System trying to show that some of the old 
units are still in use in. metric countries, they only 
prove by this the conservatism of human nature, 
but not that the Metric System is irrational. In 
metric countries one often hears the names of the 
old standards in use, but it's only the names that 
have survived and not the old system itself.
There is no doubt that the Metric System will win 
in the end, notwithstanding the axiomatic truth that 
agents ever so little are big enough to do harm, and 
to impair progress.
NEWS OF OTHER COLLEGES.
Oberlin is expected to finish the football season 
with a surplus of about $300 in the treasury of the 
athletic association.
Trainer Keene Fitzpatrick of the University of 
Michigan takes class with Mike Murphy of Penn­
sylvania as a successful track coach. He was re­
cently presented by track men who have won their 
“M’s” since 1900 with a solid gold watch.
Hockey players at Dartmouth will make a Christ­
mas trip to Boston, meeting Brae Burn, the Boston 
Crescents and other local teams.
At Princeton a committee nominates men to run 
for senior president and vice president. This year, 
five men were put up for the former office and ten 
for the latter.
Fraternity men at Michigan have signed a pledge 
to abolish the “treating” system during the remainder 
of their college course.
Deaths of relatives, whose funerals were to occur 
on Friday after Thanksgiving, were reported to 
Michigan’s faculty in such number that the granting 
Gf absences on that date, it is said, would have taken
almost two-thirds of the students out of town. All 
petitions of such nature were firmly refused.
The Indiana Daily Student printed the following 
editorial: “Say, you old grouch, did you ever pause 
and consider how tired you make your classmates 
by moping around all the time. Be enthusiastic. The 
world has enough troubles on its drooping shoulders 
without the addition of yours. There’s a magic in­
fluence in a cheery good morning or a smile. Why, 
it makes you feel good yourself and is of untold 
benefit to those you recognize in this way. Suppose 
things are not going as you think they should.
Grumbling won’t sidetrack fate, so smile,------you,
smile.”
Contrary to expectation, Michigan did not apply lor 
readmission to the western conference at the annual 
fall meeting of that body.
Minnesota conducts a “model school” at which 
cooking by men is a feature.
Some bright statistican has figured that it would 
take 200 years to take all the courses offered at 
Harvard.
Princeton football players attended the Cornell- 
Pennsylyania game Thanksgiving day as Cornell’s 
guests.
THE NIGHT DRAFTSMEN.
A number of the members of the Draftsmen’s Club 
accepted the invitation of Mr. Kramer to go through 
the Edgar Thompson mill of the Carnegie Steel Com­
pany, at Bessemer on the Saturday after Thanksgiv­
ing and a thoroughly enjoyable and instructive af­
ternoon was spent by all. Mr. Kramer acted as the 
“guide, philosopher and friend” of the party and 
showed us everything in the mill, from the ore pit 
to the finished rails. The party included Messrs. 
Kramer, McGill, Tewes, Bigge, Schoeneman, Patter 
son and Reist.
The Draftsmen have decided to get up a basket ball 
team and have begun practice. Quite a large number 
of men are trying out for it and as there are a num­
ber of old scholastic stars in the class, they expect 
to pick a fast five. For the time being, a hall has 
been secured for practice on Mount Washington. 
Practice is held on Saturday evenings at 7.30 o’clock.
The Pin Committee of the Draftsmen’s Club are 
getting prices and designs from several of the leading 
jewelers and expect to pick their choice in the near 
future. Every member of the Club is entitled to sub­
mit a design and all are urged to do so at once.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you can’t
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
fi!(cUgI3JSJSJ3M3EMMSM3JSM3J5MSM3MSISMS1313I3®3®SI31 Ej fa
| SECOND YEAR INDUSTRIALS |
5ijiu]gj2J5JBM3MSISM3M3M3ISEE!SMSJSJ5J3jSI313iS) 3M5J5JSlbiJ
S. G. Little is thinking very seriously of accept­
ing the position as second assistant instructor in the 
machine shop.
Most of us received Thanksgiving cards from our 
advisers last week.
Mr. Dosey is thinking of going into the bubble 
business. Anyone wishing to see samples of his 
work can do so by examining some of the castings 
in the machine shop.
Isn’t it peculiar how contrary life seems at times? 
For instance—The shops never have any hot water 
or soap. If it were not for the faucets being labeled 
it would be hard to tell the hot water from the cold. 
At the rate the water runs from the water cooler 
on the lower floor, a stranger would think we had all 
day to get a drink, etc.
Mr. Day defines “fatigue” as “being the end of 
life.” If that is true the majority of us won’t last 
long.
The Tech Mechanics Club is now thoroughly or­
ganized.
Minnemeyer (arriving late)—Did you mark me 
absent?”
Mr. Peters—“No. Neither did I mark you pres­
ent.”
Lost—One red pencil. Finder please return to 
John A. Whyte, Esq., Machine Tool Room, and re­
ceive reward.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS.
The most active non-athletic clubs at the present 
time are the Glee and Mandolin Clubs. Working 
under a new leader, the former has made tremend- 
uous strides, and the latter is not far behind. The 
smoker given Monday night at the University Club, 
gave them the first opportunity to be judged, and it 
is safe to say the best Clubs ever organized are those 
of this year. By the time the date of the annual 
concert rolls around we will have a combination cal­
culated to make more than Carnegie Tech sit up 
and take notice.
There was once a man from Nantucket 
Who kept all his cash in a bucket 
But his daughter Nan,
Ran away with a man,
And as for bucket—Nantucket.—Ex.
| FIRST YEAR INDUSTRIALS %
* +
Mr. Williams to Mr. Armstrong, of M-2—“What 
kind of an ‘It’ is, ‘I am sorry to say,’ it?”
Botsfcrd was caught using Mr. Burns’ head as a 
looking glass.
Mr. Dorweiler, explaining cube root—Mamma gave 
us a lot of little blocks.
One of Mr. Dorweiler’s favorite sentences: “If you 
fellows don’t cut out your talking, I’ll have to give 
you zero.”
Mr. Pfout’s proverb—“My two-year-old son can do 
better than that.”
Mr. Hamilton to a tardy student—“Whose de 
name?”
One first year industrial to another—“I thought I 
gave you ten cents for a shave yesterday.”
John Francy went home over Sunday! !
Rules of Football.
I
I seized her hand in mine,
And got an awful scolding,
For it seems in my excitement 
I'd been ‘penalized for holding.”
II
I stole ten kisses more or less,
I guess ’twas chiefly more,
For since I had begun the game 
I’d have to make the “score.”
III
The chaperon was watching me, 
And was prepared to “kick.”
But it turned out to be a “fake,” 
For I was just too quick.
IV
The nature of the game demands, 
Of course, a set of rules,
But they are only worrisome 
To imbeciles and fools.
—The Lampoon.
Doctor (to Pat’s wife after examining Pat who 
has been run down by an auto)—“Madam, I fear 
your husband is dead.”
Pat (feebly)—“No, I ain't dead yet.”
Pat's Wife—“Hush, Pat, the gentleman knows 
better than you.”—Ex.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
luE lbNlbr
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu­
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
EntTCTd Mt t(T PittsbuCg( pHst HccicT Ms sTcHnd c.Mss JMttTC
Lowell W. Nicols, ’11—Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell— Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. Taggart—Associate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, ’10, M. M. C. S.—As­
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, ’10, M. M. C. S.—Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, ’11—Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ......................................................10 Cents
Student Raites
Yearly ......................................................     $1.00
Single Copy........................................................ 5 Cents
FHC bdvTCtising NMtTs, MddCTss t(T kusinTss MMnMgTC, cMCT CMCnTgiT lTc(nicM. oc(HH.s.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must» 
bo signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request The Tartan 
wili not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
NOTICE.
This issue of “The Tartan” is not being sent to any 
or our regular collegiate exchanges, for the reason 
that the Athletic crisis is our own private affair, 
and none of anyone elses’s business. We have 
enough troubles of our own just at the present time 
without having half the college papers in the United 
States coming back here saying, “I told you so!”
“THE CRISIS.”
Well, you know now how it happened. At first it 
was a rather innocent looking affair, and as a conse­
quence most everyone “thought it wasn’t loaded.” 
We feel safe in saying that four-fifths of the student 
body had no idea at all of what was pending. A lot 
are thick-headed enough not to know yet. No one 
can come back at the Board of Control for the finan­
cial mess, as we have taken pains to explain. The 
failure took place long before it came into existence. 
For various reasons it had no realization of the state 
of affairs until last week, and then the entire ava­
lanche descended like a bolt from a clear sky. It 
typified the general ignorance of the student body 
as a whole as to what the standing, the policies and 
the plans of the various student activities are. There 
has been too much every-body-for-himself around
here for the good of Tech; too much lack of interest 
in everything in general and in Athletics in partic­
ular. We hear the excuse offered of, “Well, how am
I to find out these things? No one ever comes 
around to tell me.”
When a man’s good money is being spent by some 
one else, he has a right to know where it is going. 
If he doesn’t know, it’s his business to find out, and 
then, if he has any criticism to make, to come out 
in the open and make it. A man with apethetic tend­
encies toward what is becoming of his hard cash is 
badly in need of gut and back-bone. The present 
crisis has caught a lot of spineless jelly-fish wiggling 
—but that is a thing of the past, if it don’t happen 
again.
We have explained elsewhere that the members 
of the Board of Control have been sent back to their 
classes with the resolution passed last Friday night. 
If any class desires to protest at what is planned, 
it must go over the same ground covered by the 
discussion of the Board, and if any difference of opin­
ion with the recommendation of that body exists, 
send back some other carefully prepared, complete 
and plausable solution of the difficulty. This is no 
time for senseless talk, and the best advice to the 
classes is “If you can’t push, pull; and if you can’t 
pull, get out of the way.” The man or class to pre­
sent an unthought of and practical way out of the 
crisis not yet mentioned to the Board has yet to be 
found. We are so sure the action of the Board is the 
only way, that we desire to make it plain to all that 
a complete ratification of the resolution is impera­
tive, as well as the adoption of such changes in the 
constitution as will be made necessary by hiring a 
business manager. When these things come up to 
the classes it will offer a fine chance for the prize hot 
blast stoves to give spectacular exhibitions of heat­
ing atmosphere. There is too much cool thinking to 
be done to allow superfluous warmth to interfere.
OPEN ELECTIONS—AND OTHERS.
Carnegie Tech being so new in every particular, 
has more work to do in the matter of evolving the 
proper system of doing things, than any of the other 
colleges or universities of equal size in the country. 
We have no method of holding elections to important 
offices that insures the right man for the right place. 
One of the reasons for this is a lack of the proper 
amount of honor connected with the holding of office, 
and another is the feeling against an office seeker. 
In older institutions where our hit or miss method 
has been tried long enough to find out how entirely 
unsuitable it is, there is a well-developed system 
of posting candidate’s names weeks before elections, 
with a statement of who and what they are, and 
sometimes why they desire to pome out and run for 
the office. This insures openness in the election, 
and constitutes a method having some sense to it. 
While all kinds of electioneering then takes place,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
it sifts out the qualifications of the aspirants and 
makes our crude “railroading” a man into office an 
impossibility.
At the last regular meeting of the Board of Con­
trol, the managers for Baseball and Football for the 
coming year were elected; Keally as the former and 
Scott as the later. In Keally’s case he was the only 
one proposed, a thing we do not like to see, but in the 
case of Scott there is more to be said. Scott was 
sub-assistant manager of the football team during 
the past season. He was not recommended to the 
Board for election, since he proved himself incapable 
of making a successful manager, and we consider 
his selection a most unfortunate occurrence. The 
Board asked no advice of Manager Bright as to the 
suitability of either of his two assistants. Consid­
ering the present condition of the Athletic Associa­
tion it is more than a slight blunder that the best 
possible men were not secured to manage the dif­
ferent teams and thus be in a better way to help 
£3t rid of the $11,500.
WE TAKE [T BACK.
We recently published oiu' “Alma Mater,” the last 
line of the chorus reading:
“Thy sons on high to raise.”
Whereupon our sisters over in the convent regis­
tered a kick. “No!” said they, stirring in another 
cup of prunes and a yard or two of lace, “that is net 
correct. Last year our Dean confered with your 
Deans, and it was decided to change that line: it 
should read ‘Thy name on high to raise’—thus being 
made to include the M. M. C .S. students.”
At the time we printed this “Alma Mater” we were 
not aware of the change in the above mentioned line; 
and as we appear to have had the wrong impression, 
we cheerfully accept the correction. But the line 
reading ‘;Thy sons on high to raise” seems to us to 1 
peculiarly adapted to voice the sentiment expressed 
by one of the fundamental prerogatives of the M. 
M. C. S., because it embodies a practical method of 
aiding mankind in. its upward struggle. However, we 
will let that pass.
WHITE FRIARS.
ganization we have. With the club active, it could 
do much to relieve the desperate situation. A cou­
ple of “Athletic Nights” would be good drawing cards 
and do the Friars good beside. It is, therefore, 
doubly unfortunate that the White Friars should be 
the ones to suffer from the lack of interest of a 
few officers of the club. Since graduate Secretary 
Bieler finds the work connected with sending out 
postal notices for a meeting too great a task, his res­
ignation in favor of someone who will get on the job, 
would be the best thing that ever happened to the 
club.
ALLEGHENY COLLEGE PEEVISH.
When the general state of affairs in relation to the 
Athletic situation is fully considered, it occurs to one 
that the White Friars is the best mt>ney-making or­
We read with great interest, the account of the 
Tech-Allegheny game published in “The Campus,” 
the student publication of Allegheny College. The 
chief tirade is levelled at “The Gazette-Times” for 
their alleged unfair account of the game.. That, of 
course, is no affair of ours. The portion claiming 
attention is the last paragraph of their account of 
the game:
“Surely the team representing such a noble insti­
tution as the Carnegie School of Applied Science 
is composed of honorable men! And they certainly 
have an honorable Coach! Coach Snitjer would 
never think of telling his team from the side lines 
when he perceived a trick play with Abbott over 
near the crowd, apart from the teams and unob­
served by the Tech men. Perhaps he was not aware 
that a rule forbids the coach telling his men any­
thing from the side lines. This was doubtless the 
ca~e!”
We hope for the good of Allegheny College, an in­
stitution 94 years old, that the article was written 
by a man who is not an example of their type of men. 
Allegheny College was licked in football by a few 
of the ’varsity and many of the scrubs of the team 
representing the Carnegie Technical Schools. The 
student publication of that place has appeared with 
the most childish and weak, would-be abusive article, 
that the name of Carnegie Tech has ever been con­
nected with. We hope for the good of Allegheny 
College, an institution 94 years old, that their paper 
is not representative of their spirit.
-------HIGH LOW-------
Jack and the Game]
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENER’S
6227 Penn FAST FND6222 Frankstown
lELL eIN bDVENlVoENo meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTA N
RESOURCES OVER ONE MILLION DOLLARS,
DEPOSITS OVER SEVEN HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS 
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS 
A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
•{••{»'jMjtagaaJaaJa •£•«{*’S* aS"$MI**S**Ía*Í"$"f"SMÍ"l'4*aÍa<£**3*a£,*S,aSMI"S"I"^"$I
I M. M. C. S.
*
Every year, as every girl knows, the Plebe classes 
come to that awful period in English where they 
study pantomine. Although their antics are enjoyed 
by the witnesses, the actors themselves go through a 
most trying experience of embarrassment and stage 
fright. The Plebe classes this year are just begin­
ning this branch of English and are giving promise 
of great fun for the spectators. Several of these 
attempts are really worth remembering and repeat­
ing.
Miss Morse, the envied owner of the automobile 
frequently seen in front of our school, gave a very 
realistic pantomine in class last week. After crank­
ing her imaginary automobile, she gracefully entered, 
sat down and opened the lever. With a jump and 
a jerk the machine was off at a great rate, while 
she bent over her steering wheel and madly swung 
around corners. All at once she shut off the power 
and put on the brakes, and with a look of horror and 
fright on her face she turned the steering-wheel first 
one way then another. Then came a great bounce 
and jump, and as she turned her head to see the 
damage done, there came from behind her head a 
very natural ki-yi, ki-yi, ki-yi.
Of course this caused a great deal of laughter and 
delight, and Miss Morse was treated with respect for 
a whole day on account of her masterpiece.
THE LAST CHANCE.
Critchlow had been ordered west for his health. 
His doctor had given him one chance out of a hun­
dred for recovery and Critchlow had gone to take 
that one chance. He said good-bye to his friends, 
and made Jean Moorehead, his fiancee, promise to 
write faithfully because her letters would be his only 
salvation.
He went out in the mountains and settled in a 
small town having a good climate. The doctor had 
advised a diet and a certain amount of quiet exercise. 
He lived on eggs and milk and walked five miles a 
day, coming home to read again his last week’s letter, 
or to write volumes to the girl back home.
The girl’s letters were a help to him and Critch- 
low’s friends told him he was getting better. He 
wrote to Jean to make him a visit but she replied 
that circumstances and duties prevented. In reality 
there was another man, and affairs were at a critical 
point. Then Critchlow’s frie'nds became worried. He 
took no more long walks and spent his time indoors 
re-reading the letters. He knew then that she had 
never cared. At last they sent for his father. Mr. 
Critchlow talked to his son and then went home to 
talk to Jean.
“Tell me you will go. It’s his only chance,” he 
said. “A few weeks will not matter to you. To 
him it means life or death, and even if it were death 
you could send him away happy. He still believes 
in you.”
But Jean had no courage to face him; so Critch­
low died thinking of her, and his father’s and
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to $8.
0tto ©etting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield
lELL1 eIN ^PVENlVoENo meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
mother’s hearts 
thinking of her.
were broken; and they are still 
Edna C. Atwood, ’11.s?
Miss Fisher has had as her guest, her old school 
mate, Mrs. J. C. Carlson, of Eaton, Colorado.
December seventeenth is the date decided upon for 
the presentation of the play to be given by the 
Dramatic Club. It is a Christmas play and has to 
be given then or not at all, so the girls will have to 
work to sint that date. The rehearsals so far have 
been so poorly attended that unless something is 
done to arouse the interest of the players it will be 
impossible to give the performance this year.
“The Triumph of St. Nicolas” is the title of the 
play, and was written especially for the club by the 
caoch—Miss Stoner. The play itself is excellent, 
and the music, all original, is certainly of the kind 
that will stick in one’s memory. The costuming is 
being done by the Senior dressmaking and cos­
tume design departments under the superintendence 
of Miss Adair. Saturday, as many of the girls as 
could, came and sewed all day on the costumes. 
They made a jolly affair of the work and accom­
plished a heap of sewing.
THE MAN WHO NEVER HAS TIME.
The satire given below was originally published in 
the Daily Iowan. It has since appeared in several 
college papers and we print it in full, feeling that the 
student pictured is only too often meet with in' Tech.
“He Never Had Time.”
“He was a college student. He had his good points, 
but ‘he never had time.’
“A place on a Y. M. C. A. committee was offered 
him. About a half hour’s work for each of a half 
dozen socials during the year was all that was re­
quired. ‘I am carrying an unusually heavy study 
schedule this year/ he said.
“ ‘I haven’t got time.’
“His fellow literary society members expressed 
their opinion that he could make good at debating 
and hoped that he would increase his society’s 
chances of winning by entering the tryouts. ‘Can’t 
see my way clear,’ he replied. ‘It would take an hour 
a day for several weeks and 
“ ‘I haven’t got time.’
“He had played football in his high school days 
and had been accounted of such record does not seem 
strange. Perhaps he did not have time to live. Most 
certainly it did not take much time for him to die. 
Saint Peter accosted him at the celestial gate. ‘You 
were so busy on earth,’ said the guardian saint, ‘you 
won't be at home here without something to do; 
come right in; we will find you a job at once.' 
Promptly and without thinking—-force of habit got 
the best of him—but Peter saw what reply was com­
ing, and as the heavenly gate closed between them, 
there came floating in through the lattice work of 
gold the old familiar strain so often heard at college, 
“ ‘I haven’t got time.’ ”
«
o
If you want to be well drest let us be your Jjj 
“toggers” *
SOCIETY BRAND SUiTS & OVERCOATS « 
$20. — $22.50 — $25. — $28. — 330
Stetson, and Crofut-Knapp Hats—$3. and $4.
55
MclLWAINE’S
434 WOOD STREET 
509 MARKET STREET 
542 LIBERTY AVENUE 
Swell Haberdashery - Every Day Prices
S4s5s«i5isisiìc5isc55scsc5isi5iìtti5tti5tttti5i5ttisisisi5isttiìi5$5i5c
D*
s
o
JACQUES 
DANCING ACADEMY
COR CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley.
CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND 
SATURDAY
Private Lessons Daily£* o?
CAMPUS NOTES
Mnd NTcHCds Hc CH..TgT ExpTnsT 
cMn bT kTpt wit( TMsT in M
McCLem’o
SCHOOL and COLLEGE 
EXPENSE BOOK
Enough pig's to last throughout a 
Jo ir years' college course 
GCTTn VT.uJ dT i/uxT kinding 
o8TH x II
per copy, $1.25 post-paid everywhere,
McCLem’o uTMdquMCtTCs cHC oc(HH. oupp.iTs. 
and-n-a L’BERTY AVE.
X>C 013.
t(Mt wT pCint JHCT bHHks t(Mn Mny ciCJ
in t(T EMst End 1................................
X>o ~Z‘ou Isian.O'W
t(Mt HuC PCHgCMJs, lHpic CMCds Mnd C.TM.- 
.Tts T.icit t(T MdJiCMtiHn Hc.HvTCs Hc FinT
PCinting1............................................
X>0 "Z’o-lX
t(Mt wT MCT pCHJpt, Mnd t(Mt Mn HCdTC 
cHC M dH..MC CTcTivTs Ms Juc( cMCT Mnd Mt­
tTntiHn Ms HnT cHC M (undCTd dH..MCs1 . 
Vc yHu MCT cMstidiHus, ic yHu CTquiCT pCHJpt Mnd TcciciTnt sTCvicT, cHJT tH .
oPbuE coH EVloCuEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street
Mr. H. J. McCorkle. MgC , lMCtMn, is 
HuC CTpCTsTntMtivT Mt ‘‘lTc(.”
kT.. P(HnTs—86 Mnd 9216 ui.Mnd
k888
I
«»
lELL eIN bDVENlVoENo meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
A ford sSuupepieFpaucicippil tgg gvpgu n
| PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. g
/ The New Creation for Men ^
$ “TAN VIKING CALF” Button and Blücher g
| $4.00 Mnd $5.00 t(T pMiC 2
1 PERTINENT |
* t 4***
AND
IMPERTINENT
There was a great deal of speculation last week as 
to what sort of a structure was being erected over 
the A. S. doorway—one member of the faculty re­
marking that it looked like a shower-bath. ’Twas a 
beacon light, placed there to guide wavering niglu- 
students down the steps.
A young lady, at the Mho Club dance, indicating 
“Molly” Kennedy, said to her partner, “Who is that 
distinguished-looking young man? Is he one of the 
faculty?”
The Junior Prom. Committee is once more on the 
job. The time is the evening of February 21: the 
place, probably the Music Hall foyer and the girl—?
The White Friar sonambulists are still wrapped in 
the arms of tired Nature’s sweet restorer. The 
alarm-clock is set to go off at 7:30 p. m. Saturday, 
December 11.
The Club House will make a very acceptable 
Christmas present.
Prof. James is a mighty fine chemist but makes an 
equally poor directory. .
The Areo Club furnishes a good chance for all 
the high flyers to show their worth.
We notice that Allegheny has a bad case of peev­
ishness over our winning the game.
We are very pleased to note that the Thistle 
Board is wide awake and on the job. Where are 
the White Friars sleeping?
Finkel has acquired a wholesome respect for the 
“Germ.”
' To have the before-Christmas dance at the M. M. 
C. S. go the way of the one scheduled for November 
25th would be turning aside from an ancient tradition 
and well establish precedent.
We don’t approve of Sunday fighting as a rule 
but------!
The links seem to be very popular these days. Why 
not form a club or team?
A new name was heard for the A. & J.—White 
Wings.
H. D. Chambers is a proud possessor of a M. M.
C. S. pin. Wonder what she looks like?
A. H. Herr was heard singing “O where, O where 
has my lieber dog gone” the other day. We have 
learned since then that some one had stolen the 
bologna his father sent him.
The Tech Mechanical Club elected the following 
honorary members: Dean Connelley, Mr. Williams 
and Mr. Hepburn.
The Carnegie Tech Industrial basket ball team 
will play Irwin High School on Friday, December 
10, at Irwin.
A. & J. Night Club.
The second year A. & J. Night Club elected the 
following officers: President Wolf, Vice President 
Wecker, Secretary and Treasurer Marshall, Historian 
Muirhead, Tartan Representative Floyd, Board of 
Control Wertz.
The editor of The Tartain has received two poems 
and is holding them for lack of identification.
AREO CLUB.
Ae we were in the last stage of going to press 
a notice of the formation of an Areo Club reached us. 
A meeting is to be held this week for the purpose of 
discussing the project, notice of the time and place 
being posted on the bulletin boards. It looks like a 
good thing. There is need of such a club here and 
no reason why it cannot thrive.
Political Repartee.
"The motto of our party is ‘Turn the rascals out!’ ” 
"Well, I guess your party has turned out more 
rascals than any other.”—Cleveland Leader.
lELL eIN bDVENlVoENo meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
‘THE THISTLE.’
Acting under the agreement had last year con­
cerning regulations covering the publication of 
the year book, each Junior class, both day and night, 
have elected three representatives to serve on the 
“Thistle” board. The Science School had the selec­
tion of the Ed'itor-in-Chief last year, the School of 
Design have it this year, and the Apprentices and 
Journeymen complete the circuit next.' The first 
meeting of the present board will be held on Thurs­
day evening, December 9th, at 7.30, in Room 118, of 
the A. & J. Building. The representatives elected 
are: Design Day, Editor-in-Chief Nicols, Mitchell,
Moss; Design Night, Brandon Smith, Rigaumont, 
Walter Jones; Science Day, Bright, Wallace, Bell; 
Science Night, Elliott, Gump, Withum; A. & J. Day, 
Minnemeyer, Kurz, Johns; A. & J. Night, Steel, Lang- 
don, Brodmerkle; M. M. C. S. Day, Nolin, Flinn, Hart­
man; M. M. C. S. Night, Staving, Dunlap, Mrs. Mills.
AGNEW LEAVES HOSPITAL.
John G. Agnew, of Beaver Falls, who was severely 
burned by electricity while out surveying on the 
Butler trolley line last year, left the hospital for 
the first time on December 2nd. For a few weeks it 
will be necessary for him to return every few days 
for treatment.
REDUCED RAILROAD RATES TO STUDENTS.
The glad tidings reached the Schools, that the 
North-WesterA Line (Chicago & North-Western and 
the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis & Omaha) would 
make special cheap rates to Carnegie Tech students 
going to points west of Chicago for the Christmas 
vacation. This means that many can spend the holi­
days at home who would have been compelled to re­
main over. Detailed information and rates can be 
obtained from Mr. A. Q. Tallant, General Agent C. & 
N.-W. Ry., 504 Smithfield Street, Pittsburg.
Wouldn’t Go Back.
A Dutchman, traveling on a slow train through 
Arkansas, became very much dissatisfied with the 
speed of the train, and finally decided to alight and 
walk. Soon after the whistle sounded several times, 
as he was walking down the track, warning some 
one to get off the track. The Dutchman shouted: 
“You can vistle, vistle, all you want, but I won’t 
come back!”—The Case Tech.
Inquisitive Person—“What are you digging here 
for?”
Roadside Laborer—“Gold, gov’nor.”
Inquisitive Person—“When do you expect to strike 
it?”
Roadside Laborer—“Twelve o’clock on Saturday.” 
—The Fulcrum.
^e"Be st Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST.
D OAKLAND
ö New Shirts—65 Styles—$1.50 Each
T New Neckwear—all the Late Effects—50^ Each
TECH PENNANTS *
ö Tech Plaid by the Yard, the Genuine Plaid .j,f ö
e|co|s tgo s|c e|o a|a »|« »Je >%a »fr »I« »Jt »I« «I» «13 Ogt a%8 »%» »Je »Je t|« »Ja »Jo »J» *£«
HEEREN BROS. & CO. •
Manufacturers of 
FRATERNITY, CLASS AND SCHOOL PINS
PENN AVENUE AND EIGHT STREET
* * * * * * * 4*
SI PE’S JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
FENCING
CLASSES OR INDIVIDUAL INSTRUCTION
For information and rates apply.
Dr. H. Schapper, School of Applied Design.
5Í5íS00005S00í50tSÍÍíSíSÍ5í5ÍÍ5ÍÍ500ÍS«SÍ
g
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues
CAMPBELL COYLE, D.D., Minister
Sunday Services:
45 A. M.—The Brotherhood Bible Study
00 A. M.—Morning Worship
00 P. M.—Evening Service
?*****?********
^ cM1 IMPORTANT MEETING
of the 
BOARD OF CONTROL 
On Wednesday Night at 7.30 O’clock.
Every member out.
lELL eIN bDVENlVoENo meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
MR. McKIM’S GREAT CAREER.
The architect far more than his fellow-artists 
reaches the intimate daily life of the multitude. We 
go to picture galleries occasionally, and see a sculp­
ture exhibition once in a while—but the architect’s 
works cry aloud in the streets to every passer-by 
every hour of every day. It is his in the highest 
degree to clothe with beauty one of man’s funda­
mental necessities.
This truism takes on new significance when one 
tries to sum up the meaning to his time and fellows 
of such a man as the late Mr. Charles F. McKim, 
whose death removed the acknowledged leader of 
his profession in America. From this large human 
point of >view it would be difficult to exaggerate the 
importance of the work that he did during the 32 
years of his tremendous activity, says “The World’s 
Work.”
Mr. McKim returned to America after his course 
at the Beaux Arts to 'find among his brother archi­
tects a strong leaning toward the romantic “Gothic 
revival;” and he made a few experiments himself 
along these lines. But, consciously or unconsciously, 
forces then active led him to a more accepted and 
authorative style, and the characteristic mark of 
his firm's work became a most skilful adaptation 
to America needs of the best work of the Italian 
Renaissance. The character of the man is shown 
almost as much by his skilful building and hand­
ling of his own famous firm as by the personal taste 
and restraint and enthusiasm which went into his 
professional work.
He associated with himself two very diverse, 
positive, creative personalities and gradually gath­
ered together a changing group of ambitious younger 
assistants; and for 32 .years the same knowledge 
and diplomacy and force which enabled him to direct 
a client’s mind went to organizing this group into a 
tremendous force, an artistic machine which might 
serve as a model for a “captain of industry.” Those 
who knew the men could often pick out this or that 
achievement as an expression of an individual, but 
the work done was by “McKim, Mead, and White.”
And what a record it is! State houses, public 
libraries, art galleries, churches, clubs, banks, uni­
versities—a full half-hundred, some of which are in 
every great city of the United States—are numbered 
merely among the “principal works.” Moreover, 
there is hardly one of them which has not been an 
inspiration to public taste and to fellow-artists. In 
the aggregate they form a body of work of such high 
character as to amaze the layman and student 
alike. Just because there is such widespread public 
ignorance regarding the builders of such structures, 
we set down here a list of some of the more not­
able:
List of the Principal Works of McKim, Mead and 
White.
Rhode Island State House.
Boston Public Library.
Madison Square Garden, New York.
lELL eIN bDVENlVoENo
i OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET £
Dealers in £
kIllEN, EGGo. PeILlNm, CuEEoE, lEb brD ?
CeFFEE *
5 371n FORBES STREET %£ Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley ^
>\Vrrr\\or\\r\\\\\\\Vr\\%\\r\\\Vr\\>
The Standard of Excellence
MacDonald’s
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice Cream—Fancy Boxes—Baskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
V \VN\\%\W%N\\W\\\\VS\V\N%\ \\\S\\
DRAWING AND >
ARTISTS MATERIALS ?
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz '
606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279. jd
*Well Pressed is Well Dressed *
LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO.
301 South Craig Street
0\0N0V0\0%0%0\0\0%0V>%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%
R. W. MEDICK
MEATS ANDCHOICE HOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
Both Phones3804 Forbes Street
ERIRNRNRIRIRIRNRIRNRIRNRORNRURNRURNR
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores ofGEO. K. STEVENSON £ CO.
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East EndE A .t. /% ty. A Jf.A A A AAA a AA.t. A A A
D ECM BRCM8,M1 90PIT
)]) THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH
)i) The place to live for convenience, pleasure and A 
§ pro,it' |
HOTEL SCHENLEY %* Pittsburgh, Pa. • *
* CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND *% DANCES. %% Phone 248 Schenley.
meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANlo
Agricultural Building, Columbian Exposition, Chi­
cago.
Library, Columbia University, New York.
General Plan of Columbia University grounds and 
buildings, New York.
New York University Library, and Hall of Fame, 
New York.
Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences.
Walker Art Gallery, Bowdoin College, Maine.
Building for Architectural Department, Harvard 
University.
University Club, Harvard Club, Century Club, 
Metropolitan Club, Harmonic Club, Freundschaft 
Club, Colony Club—all in New York.
Algonquin Club, Boston.
Interior of the White House.
St. Peter’s Church, Morristown, N. J.
Prison-ship Martyrs' Monument, Brooklyn.
Library for J. Pierpont Morgan, New York.
Pennsylvania Station, New York.
Extension of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
New York.
Washington Arch, Washington Square, New York.
Dwelling for Henry Villard, New York.
New York Life Insurance Company’s Buildiug, 
Kansas City. New York Life Insurance Company’^ 
Building, Omaha.
Judson Memorial Church, Washington Square. 
New York.
Germantown (Pa.) Cricket Club.
New York Herald Building.
Bowery Savings Bank, New York.
Symphony Hall, Boston.
University of Virginia: Restoration of the Rotunda, 
Academic Building, Physics Building, Mechanics 
Building.
New Porch and Memorial Doors, St. Bartholomew 
Church, New York.
Bank of Montreal.
Knickerbocker Trust Company Building, New 
York.
Gorham Manufacturing Company, New York.
Tiffany & Co., New York.
Madison Square Presbyterian Church, New York.
The Army War College and Engineering School, 
Washington, D. C.
Bellevue Hospital, New York.
National City Bank, New York.
It is as true that the architect is, generally, un­
known to the public as that his work is in closest 
relation to them. Charles F. McKim’s name may 
never be a “household word,” but his work and in­
fluence will live as long as men love beautiful build­
ings; and the man who saw in his mind’s eye and 
embodied the Boston Public Library has a sure 
place in the memories of his countrymen.
0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0X0X0X
*?Tech Barber Shoo
CHC. CNbVG and FeNkEo olNEElo*00X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X
% R E Y M ER S
• There are no other 
candies quite so gocd as
REYMERS S
Z *Nvwvwvwwwswwmmvwvwmw
0XOX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0X0X0X0X0X
* 00 OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO. £'jt 00 Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest Dyeing an-j #
X Cleaning Works ^
g City Office—631 Penn Avenue #
¡A East End Office—S. Hiphland Ave. & Baum St. 0
OX0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0X0X0X
O+0*0*04O+04O-iO*0*0+0*<>*O*l*Q*0*0+0,i,0*B. K. Elliott Co I
PENFECl FVllVrG EmE’ 2G Li booEo brD *oPEClbCLEo %
108 Sixth St. (Bessemer Building) 0
§ PITTSBURGH *0*0*0#0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*
M3J3ISiSMSiSMSMSMSiSI3I3I3J3MSi3®3MSISIBMSfS®5iSMB
The Christmas Giit
—Haller’s Candy—
A Big Array of Beautiful Imported Baskets 
Satin Lined 
Handsome Boxes filled with rich, delicious
1 CHOCOLATES
Elj Let us have your order
HALLER BAKERY
H 3618 FORBES AVE. IRIQUOIS BLOCK §j
Chirography.
Little Johnny—“Say, Mister!”
Mister—“Well ?”
Little Johnny—“Who crossed your eyes instead 
of dotting them?”—Puck.
lELL eIN bDVENlVoENo
andXaNDdR BROS.
ueDbKo 6 Puele oIPPLVEo 
108 oixt( otCTTt, PittsbuCg(', PM.
meI’NE FNeM lECu.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
S0*0«0S—S_*0S-iS-0S0SinSK0SnSi*0*0SiS-i*i*iSi*—S—*_*0 %X\ r<y
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
F.HCists Mnd DTcHCMtHCs
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG­
EST ASSORTMENT
EMst End otHCT:
kT.. 5500 uig(.Mnd 
P. & b. 166 EMst 
5ndn-d8 CENTER AVE.
DHwn lHwn otHCT:
kT.. 1101 CHuCt 
P. & b. 189 MMin 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
*t***
+V
it**+**iA
«I*
A.B. SPALDING* BROS.
THE SCALDING
TRADE MARK
Vs knHwn t(CHug(Hut t(T wHC.d Ms M GuMCMntTT Hc 
QuM.ity.
iCT t(T LMCgTst MMnucMctuCTCs in t(T WHC.d H.
eFFVCVbL 
EQIVPMErl
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
^
Vni. MCT intTCTstTd in VII bt(.Ttic opHCt yHu s(Hu.d (MvT M cHpy Hc t(T 
opM.ding CMtM.HguT. Vt’s M 
cHJp.TtT Tncyc.HpTdiM H c 
Wubl’o rEW Vr oPeNl 
Mnd is sTnt cCTT Hn CTquTst.
b. G. oPbLDVrG & kNeo.
439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa.
*4<>*0*04<>4<^*04<>4<>*O*0*0*0*0*0*0*0 .g.
1 * S B. & B. I
•jj£ Christmas 4»
<*> The things you’ll buy for Christmas need not ^ 
^ be expensive but must be appropriate. +
•f* It’s easy to get right gifts and right prices ¦§•
* here. *
* °
% keGGo & kIuL $
2 D
V oO C>,i,O,$,Cv,I,O*!,O*|,O4*Oiii*O’I,O*I,Cv»i*O*i,0*i'iO,5,Cv'!,O4* 04,0’i* •*>
o£«J»a{cag>a{aaJ,a{ltgttgt,gt,g„2>agMgMglagsagMgMgaagl,gMg„JtaJ„gaag„gt,J.
For
MEN
For
WOMEN
S0^CtedCte0S0S0^Cte0?^te=0£=0=£te02i02030£=O^0))\
The S. Hamilton Co.
PVbreo Mnd 
eNGbro
531 Wood St., - PITTSBURG, PA.
6~0g0"0g?t>g0S0g0S0S050S0g0g0g:OS050SO~ 
c*X0X0xo\a%0*D\'oxa%0%0xa%Q*QNQvox0*o*
I MELLON NATIONAL BANK I
a sg 514 SMITHFIELD STREET
£ 409 I IFTH AVENUE8
S CAPITAL - - • - $4,000,000
8
8 SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
$ STUDENTS gS g
g * RESOURCES OVER 47 MILLIONS. g
0 §%0X0X0X0XOX0X0X0X0S0X0X0X0X0S0XOX0X0TELL CUR ADVERTISERS
4*
BETTER AND LOOK IT
HANAN C BAKER SHOE COMPANY
435-437 Wood Street
East End Supply House
FOR
ARTISTS & DRAUGHTSMEN
Henrici’s Book Store
Penn Avenue, near the East End Postoffice
«
+04'04,0+04»0'i*04^4,04'04«04,O*i»04,0^O4,04«0^04,0s °
§ A. W. SMITH CO., I
FTorrsts |
Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es- $
tablishment in America. ^
Represented in all large cities ó
* KEENAN BUILDING 0
S £n. Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa. 2
A 50 4*04‘04-04O4*04»04*CH»04-C^0+04-04*04»04-04*O4‘04*04-YOU'RE FROM TECH.
