Student Night 
Shadyside Church 
December 9
Thistle Receipts 
Two Days Only 
Dec. 13 & 14
VOL. XII. NO. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIADEC. 5, 1917
SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL WILL BE PRODUCED FOUR TIMES THIS WEEK
DESIGN SCHOOL WILL 'ANNUAL STUDENT NIGHT HOLD SERVICE REVEL AT SHADYSIDE CHURCH
Two Casts Selected for Year’s 
First Big Play
POWELL IS DIRECTING
Sheridan’s “School for Scandal,” 
which is being directed by Mr. Fran­
cis Powell, will be produced, the “Red” 
cast appearing, next Tuesday and 
Wednesday evenings. The “Blue” cast 
will play Friday and Saturday even­
ings.
The “Red” cast is as follows:
Sir Peter Teazle.........Howard Smith
Sir Oliver Surface.......Wm. Mulligan
Sir Harry Bumper.......James Church
Sir Benjamin Backbite.Theo. Viehman
Joseph Surface............Norwood Engle
Charles Surface.Hubbard Kirkpatrick
Careless ........................David aGither
Snake .......................Bishop Dickinson
Crabtree ..............Collin C. Clements
Rowley .............................Wm. Straner
;Moses ...........................George Trabert
Trip ...................Lawrence Iv. Paquin
Lady Teazle ..........................Eula Guy
Lady Sneerwell ........Bronwen Chubb
Mrs. Condour .......Violante Bollinger
Maria ...........................-..Mary Ricards
Butler ...............................Jack Wolcott
Servant ..............Howard McClanahan
Prologue ..............Dorothy Rubenstein
•£•
* Get, your photographs, comics, *
* etc., into the Thistle boxes now. *
* Make the Thistle your book. *
* *
•I* * ? * * * * * * * * * * * * *
M. M. C. S. ORGANIZE \ BRANCH OF Y. W. C. A.
On Monday, Nov. 25, the girls in­
terested in forming a Y. W. C. A. at 
Tech, 'met in Room 103, M. M. C. S. 
ior the purpose of drawing up a con­
stitution for that association. Miss 
Salome Stamm was elected chairman 
until the officers would be elected; 
she, with a committee of five others, 
are now working on this constitution, 
and expect to send it to the Field Sec­
retary in Philadelphia for approval, 
hy Friday of'this week.
On Monday, Dec. 3, a meeting was 
held to elect officers for the nomina­
tion of officers for the Y. W. C. A. at 
Tech. The following are the nominees:
Faculty Advisor 
Miss Marian Holmes.
President 
Salome Stamm, Anna Benscoter.
Vice President 
Edith Gurley, Lucile Wakefield.
Secretary 
Genevieve Miller.
Treasurer 
Helen Savard, Lynda Lyman. 
Chairman, Religious Meetings Com­
mittee.
Annette Carpenter, Dorothy Turkle, 
Elizabeth Richey.
Chairman Finance 
Dorothy Harlow, Clare Todd, Lyda 
McCarthy.
Chairman Social 
Dorothea Frederick, Harriet Stone, 
Dorothy Turkle.
Chairman Association News 
Lucy Hart, M. Helene Field.
Chairman Guild 
Helen Marshall; Dorothy Harlow.
QUARANTINE BECOMING POPULAR AT WEST DORM
The West Dorm was quarantined 
again at 10:30 last Friday morning, 
for’ the second time within a month. 
Only one case of diphtheria was re­
ported, that of Albert A. Meinhold, 
whose condition was critical for a 
time, but who is now convalescing rap­
idly.
Fortunately for the Dormites, most 
of them had gone home for Thanks­
giving, and were not “caught” in the 
quarantine. Those who remained, 
however, had their meals brought to 
them, and passed the time by singing 
and raising a general disturbance. Tife 
quarantine was broken Saturday morn­
ing, having been in effect only twenty- 
four hours.
GUILD TO HOLD BAZAAR IN UNION ON DEC. 17
Folk Dancing Will Be Prom­
inent Feature of Annual 
Affair
The Allied Bazaar given annually 
by the M .M. C. S. Guild will take 
place on Monday', Dec. 17, in Carnegie 
Union. For a general good time, come 
to the Guild Bazaar. Folk dances of 
the allies will be performed by girls 
in costume. Appropriate things to 
send to soldier boys and also good 
things to eat will be for sale. During 
the evening there will be social danc­
ing. Admission 25 cents.
MUSICAL CLUBS’PROGRAM IS ALMOST COMPLETED
The programs of both the Mandolin 
and Glee Clubs are nearing comple­
tion. Extra rehearsals are being held 
each week in order to eliminate all 
the rough spots. Despite the fact that 
several men were home for the 
Thanksgiving vacation, rehearsals 
were held as usual last Sunday.
Next Sunday, Dec. 9, is the time at 
which the picture of the clubs will be 
taken. Every man in the two clubs 
is expected to be in full dress at the 
Exhibition Room in the Design school 
at two o’clock. This will be the only 
picture of the clubs taken this year, 
"so that everyone should be there with­
out fail.
At the annual smoker of the clubs, 
held on Saturday evening, Nov. 24,
F. A. Faville was unanimously elected 
Librarian of the Mandolin Club to fill 
the vacancy caused by I-Iedlund’s leav­
ing school. During the evening the 
various specialty “stunts” were tried 
out. Messrs. Cost, Sweeny and Eller- 
ton gave several Hawaiian selections, 
which were well received. Stotz gave 
an account of his extensive (?) travels 
in Bulgaria, and Marvin Blackburn 
held the audience' speechless by his 
western tales. Pribeclc told the story 
of George Washington and the cherry 
tree the way it; looked from the eyes 
of an American-born Italian. The pop­
ular selection “Lily of the Valley” 
played by Leonard as a funeral march, 
called for several encores. T. R. 
Hinckley, who had charge of the pro­
gram, then introduced the various 
members of the executive committee, 
who responded with short talks. Re­
freshments and a get-to-getlier meet­
ing completed the program.
FORMER SCIENCE MAN ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY
On Wednesday, Nov. 21, the students 
had a rare treat when "Jimmy” Sheers 
a former Science man, now home on 
furlough from active service with the 
ambulance corps in France, addressed 
the Industries Assembly.
In a brief talk “Jimmy” told how 
things were really done on the wes­
tern front. Among the points touched 
upon, were the different types of aero­
planes, chasers, bombers, reconoiter- 
ing machines, etc., the method of 
photographing the enemy’s field and 
the part the photographer plays to­
gether with the mathematicians in the 
great advances on the German posi­
tions. “Jimmy” also explained bar­
rage fire, what it does and what it 
means to an army together with the 
use of hand grenades.
“Jimmy’ ’ended his talk with an ap­
peal to the students for the Y. M. C. 
A. fund. He .was “over there” and 
knows what the Y. M. C. A. means. In 
his own words it is the closest thing 
to home that the boys know of.
Only One Member of Couple 
Need be From Design
The Design Service Revel will be 
held in the Foyer of the Design 
School on December 18.
Heretofore, about this time of the 
year, the Design School had its an­
nual costume ball, to which "only De­
sign students were admitted. But this 
year, on account of the war it was 
deemed best to do away with cos­
tumes. So many of the boys respond­
ed to Uncle Sam's call that the num­
ber of men left is far less than girls. 
At a meeting of the. student assembly 
a motion was passed whereby outsid­
ers may be invited, so long as one 
member of each couple is a student of 
Design School. Each person who at­
tends the dance will be assessed one 
dollar. This should be sent immedi­
ately to Alex Sharove, secretary of 
Design student body, and receive in 
return a card of admission. Each per­
son is required to show his card of 
admission and to bring a parcel con- 
taining a useful gift for some soldier. 
Tr.ese parcels will be sent to Carnegie 
Tech men in France, and the money 
received will be used for war relief.
Mr. Hornbostel has offered to pay 
for the music. Plans Muller is arrang­
ing for the “eats,” which will be serv­
ed in the sculpture hall,, while several 
stunts will be performed. Everyone 
is assured a good time and at the 
same time a fine chance to help in this 
world crisis.
Come and show your patriotism.
First Half Hour to be Devot­
ed to Music
Sunday evening, Dec. 9 is “Student 
Nijjht” at the Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church. At this meeting the students 
of ¡ Tech, Pitt and P. C. W. will unite 
in a big rally. Music will be furnished 
by our Design School and the Pitt and 
P.|C. W. Glee Clubs will sing. The 
first half hour will be devoted to mu­
sic. Dr. Kerr will talk about a “Chal­
lenge for Responsibility,” and the. en­
tire service will be patriotic. Here is 
a chance for you to show your loyalty, 
Techite! The service Will be one of 
strength and inspiration with a lot of 
good school spirit thrown in. You 
can help:
By wearing your tag and inducing 
everyone else to wear his; and, by be­
ing present at the meeting with your 
best school enthusiasm. This will be 
a thrilling occasion, so come and help 
boost.
? *!•
? INDUSTRIES PLEBE DANCE *
* --------- *
* The Plebe class of the School
* of Applied Industries will tender »1*
* a dance on December 14 to the * 
4» middles and uppers of the school * 
•i* at the Union. A committee is at ?
* work on the affair at present and
* they expect to offer a unique pro-
»!• gram. *
* >1*
??. .T< »Tj .t. .J. .J.
By action of the Administrative Council, November 22nd, classes 
will begin after the holidays on Thursday, January 3rd, at 8:30 a. m., 
instead oi! on Wednesday, the 2nd, as stated in the catalogue. This 
is done to avoid conflict with the many sessions oi: the American As­
sociation for the Advancement of Science which have been scheduled 
in G; I-. T. buildings December 27th-January 2nd. No change has been 
made in the date on which the Christmas vacation begins, which is 
Wednesday, December 19th, classes ceasing at the close of night 
school, Tuesday evening, December 18th. The Council also voted to 
charge a fee of $5.00 to any. student who fails to report for classes on 
January 3rd.
A. W. TARBELL.
Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag cordially invite to their home, 
-1040 Bigelow Boulevard, on Christmas Day, at 8:00 p. .in., tho,out-of- 
town students who find it necessary to remain in Pittsburgh during 
the holidays.
The recent poll of the student body shows 473 students in favor 
of Military Drill and 290 in favor of Gymnasium. The Administra­
tive Council have accepted this as the combined voice of the Institute 
as decisive in favor of Military Instruction and have placed the carry* 
ing into effect of this regulation in the hands of the Military Com­
mittee, consisting of Professors Keller, Dornberger, and Dosey.
General Sir John N. Gibson*, at Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, has 
been wired requesting him to nominate a disabled Canadian Officer 
to act as Dyill Master. We are awaiting a response to this message. 
As soon as a suitable officer can be secured, military instruction will 
be inaugurated.
In the meantime, the regulations concerning the required gym­
nasium exercises remain in- force until the military instruction re- 
XDlaces it.
The question of the designation of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology as an Officers’ Reserve Training Corps is now receiving the 
consideration of the Secretary of War and-the Chief of Staff.
ARTHUR A. HAMERSCHLAG.
Since the above statement was is-4-
MIDDLE CLASS DECIDES TO HOLD BANQUET SOON
After the assembly Wednesday, No­
vember 28, the middle class of the 
School of Applied Industries held a 
Meeting for the purpose of deciding 
on a class social. It was finally de- 
cided to hold a banquet before the 
Christmas holidays the exact place 
and time to be left to the judgment of 
a committee. The men of the middle 
intend to push the affairs to the limit 
and to make it something worth while.
TWO M.M.C. S. ALUMNI MARRIED LAST THURSDAY
Thanksgiving Day saw two of Mar­
garet Morrison’s alumni married. 
Lydia Bates, a 1916 girl was married 
at 11. o’clock to Lieut. . Carl Edward 
Gloclc of Johnstown. The ceremony 
Avas performed by Rev. Luther Free­
man of Emory Church. The bride and 
groom spent their honeymoon in the 
south and east and are now at home 
in Washington, D. C., Lieut. Gloclc be­
ing stationed at Camp Meade.
Miss Hazel Freeland of the class of 
1915 was married at noon to T. Max­
well Stonerod in the Ben Avon Pres­
byterian Church, where Rev. H. H. 
Forsythe performed the ceremony. Af­
ter the marriage the couple started, by 
motor to their new home in Ligonier, 
Pa.
sued Director Hamerschlag has receiv­
ed two telegrams from Brigadier Gen­
eral Gwynne, the first requesting in­
formation regarding the sort of in­
struction desired, and the second say-
ing that a man would be chosen in a 
few days as soon as the matter could 
be considered more thoroughly. With 
good fortune plans- should be ready 
for operation within a month, but 
nothing is definite as yet.
SIGMA TAU TO BE INSTALLED SOON AS DELTA UPSILON CHAPTER
PAGEANT TO DE GIVEN FOR RED CROSS BENEFIT
Tech Students Give Services 
for Performances in 
Syria Mosque
The Pageant, as given for Carnegie 
Day, is'to he repeated for the public 
at the Syria Mosque Saturday after­
noon and evening, at the invitation 
of the Pittsburgh Red Cross. This is 
a very important opportunity for Tech 
to do its bit. Every student who took 
part in Carnegie Day should be ready 
to appear Saturday. The last perform­
ance was a home affair, for the friends 
of the schools. The next one is to 
bring in as much money as possible 
for the Red Cross, and to help in the 
realization of the meaning of the war. 
it is obvious, therefore, that any work 
done in this performance, however, 
slight, is a direct act of patriotism.
Rehearsals will, as before, be re­
duced to the smallest possible num­
ber, the final and most important ones 
being held on tho stage of the Mosque 
Saturday morning, beginning at nine- 
thirty.
The stage and lighting equipment at 
the Mosque are better adapted to the 
Pageant than are those in Carnegie 
Music Hall, and with the co-operation 
of the cast., we should be sure of a 
finer spectacle and a still more impres­
sive effect. Students not actively tak­
ing part can help by spreading through 
the city of Pittsburgh the truth re­
garding the merits of the performance, 
ail this is the only factor necessary to 
make it a big financial success Cor the 
Red Cross.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS HEAR INTERESTING TALK
At. a recent meeting of tho A. I. E. 
E., Carnegie Tech Branch, Mr. R. M. 
Dudley of the Westinghouse Co., was 
the principal speaker. Ho delivered 
an excellent talk on tho application 
of electricity to industrial problems. 
An interesting feature of the talk was 
the discussion of the application of 
electric drive to battleships. He 
recommended that ovoryono should ap­
ply themselves nl. the present In all 
situations rather than resort to the 
primitive. -
Tho meeting adjourned to the-------
Club room, whore smokos and oats 
were provided. About thirty mon at­
tended and all report having a good 
lime. It Is well worth your while to 
attend these meetings.
MEMBER RECEIVES COMMISSION
G. C. STONE ELECTED ¡TO REPLACE FLEMING
L. D. LIND ADDRESSES INDUSTRIES SOCIETY
Grant C. Stone was elected treasur­
er of the Sophomore class in the Sci­
ence School, to succeed Fleming. Stone 
is taking the course in Metallurgical 
Engineering, and conies here from 
Hamilton, Ontario.
The Building Construction Club held 
a meeting Monday night in room 16 of 
the Industries building, at which they 
entertained the Civil and Sanitary En­
gineers.
The regular business was transact­
ed, after which papers of interest to' 
all were read by various members.
The feature of the evening was a 
most instructive and interesting talk 
by Mr. L. D. Lind, Vice President of 
the WItherow Steel Company.
“Eats” were the last thing on the 
progrtim of a profitable evening.
HONORARY MEMBER GIVEN LUNCHEON BY JUNIORS
On Saturday, Nov. 24, the girls of 
the Junior class gave a luncheon at 
McCreery’s for their honorary mem­
ber, Miss Henrietta Browning. Dec­
orations were carried out in yellow, 
the school color. Miss Browning was 
presented with a corsage of white 
daisies and sweetheart roses.
DESIGN SCHOOL AWARDS ENTRANCE SCHOLARSHIP
Victor H. Stromquist, Department of 
Architecture, has been awarded the 
Entrance Scholarship, School of Ap­
plied Design for 1917-18.
Winthrop W. Slocum, ’08, who grad­
uated from Science with the “Charter 
Class,” has been commissioned as lieu­
tenant In the naval service, after sev­
eral months of intensive training on 
the Atlantic Coast. At the beginning 
of the war, the Naval Consulting 
Board, ,the National Security League, 
and the American Institute of Elec­
trical Engineers submitted from the 
United States 225 names of young 
men who might qualify for highly 
technical work in the naval service. 
Lieutenant SlocunV’s name was among 
the 100 that were selected from these. 
This speaks volumes for his ability 
and technical training.
After graduating, Lieut. Slocum took 
special work and added the degree 
of electrical engineer to his already 
attained B. S. Before entering the 
national service, he was connected 
with several local electrical manufac­
turing plants and was active in the 
management of the Pittsburgh Train­
ing Association.
DR. BLAIR WRITES OF WAR ZONE
At assembly on Wednesday, Nov. 28, 
Dean Breed read letters from Dr. Blair 
and Prof. Day, both now In the war 
zone. Dr. Blair has begun work with 
the Red Cross Civilian Relief Corps 
and just now can use’ money to better 
advantage than anything else,
Dean Breed also spoke of an appeal 
made to her by Mrs. Hoyt of the 
Juvenile Court, for knitted garments 
for boys who were formerly under 
hor1 charge and have practically no 
one to care about them now. Mrs. 
Hoyt thought it would not be asking 
too much to ask the girls to provide 
for these boys and probably write to 
them after all the Tech men had been 
supplied.
Ceremony With Reception 
and Banquet Comes Dec. 15
VISITORS ARE COMING
Last Wednesday, Nov. 2S, the Sigma 
Tau Fraternity were notified that a 
charter had been granted to their or­
ganization as the Carnegie Chapter of 
the Delta Upsilon National Fraternity. 
The petition from Sigma Tau had pre­
viously been acted upon favorably by 
the Delta Upsilon convention in Buf­
falo during October, but it was not 
until last week that formal notifica­
tion was received from the board of 
trustees. Their letter was as follows: 
November 27, 1917. 
Sigma Tau Society,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Gentlemen:
I take pleasure in notifying you that 
at the meeting of the board of trustees 
of the Fraternity, held on Friday, Nov. 
23, 1917, a charter was granted to your 
society as the Carnegie Chapter of 
Delta Upsilon.
Extending to you my most hearty 
congratulations, 1 am
Yours very truly,
HERBERT WHEATON CONGDON,
Secretary of the Fraternity. 
The installation of Delta Upsilon at 
Carnegie will take place on Saturday, 
Dec. 15. The installation proper will 
be held in the morning In tho hall now 
occupied by the Medical Club, former­
ly the old Bellefield Club, on Craig 
street between Center and the boulo- 
(Contlnued on Page Two.)
THISTLE BOARD WILL HOLD FINAL TAG DAY
Tho Thistle Board will hold “Flag 
Day” on Thursday and Friday, Doc. 13 
and 14. No thistles will bo sold or re­
ceipts issued after those dates. If 
you havo not already procured your 
receipt It Is of the utmost Importance 
that you do so at your earliest con­
venience. Tho price will bo $2.50 as 
usual, but your name will bo printed 
on tho front In gold lottors for twenty- 
five cents extra. The agents who 
havo been chosen so Car are Do Per- 
fontalno of tho Design School and Nut;- 
tal of tho Solonoo School. No others 
havo been selected as yet.
Tho board will receive nil snap­
shots, writeups or anything of similar 
nature any lime. II Is requested, how- 
over, that l-lioy bo handed lit as soon 
as possible.
MARRIAGE OF FORMER TECH MAN ANNOUNCED
On Novombor 17 a beautiful wedding 
took place at the homo of Mr. and 
Mrs. Alfred C. lieges at Elyria, Ohio, 
when their daughter, Estella Cather­
ine, was ijnitod in marriage with Ward 
Charles Lyons.
Everyone well remember Lyons who 
played a star game at tackle on last 
year’s football team. He' was one of 
the men who received their letter.
After Dec. 15 the couple will be at 
home at 312 West Sixth street, Elyria.
MIDDLE CLASS TRIES AND “EXECUTES” PLEBES
On Thursday afternoon, Nov. 22, at 
four-thirty, the middle class of the 
School of Applied Industries held its 
second trial. Judge Tuttle of the Up­
per class called the court to order and 
appointed as jury men Messrs. Walk­
er, Nelson, Jones and Gerber of the 
upper class- and Messrs, Yergey and 
Seidel of the middle class.
The first defendant was accused of 
refusing to wear the Plebe hat, unbe­
coming language and disrespect to up­
per classmen. The second defendant, 
Mr. Strerheim, was charged with 
smoking on the campus and extreme 
disrespect to upper classmen. Mr. 
Robinson, the last, answered to charg­
es of general insolence.,
The fate of the last named was six 
“whacks” with the paddle, while the 
first two received a hair cut as a pen­
alty.
INDUSTIES INSTRUCTOR RECEIVES COMMISSION
Mr. Harry W. Colmery, formerly a 
teacher of English in the School of 
Applied Industries, has received a com- ? 
mission as second lieutenant in thé 
non-flying department of the Aviation 
Corps.
11633216
18712173

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANWednesday, December 5, 1917
Stt
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postofiice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
EditSr-in-Chief . .. 
Business Manager
Phone' Grant 388-R. 
Phone Schenley 9167
RECRUITING OFFICER ADDRESSES MEETING
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editor
• L. E. Emërich
' Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
James Church 
Science Assistants 
Meinhold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marguerite I-Ialdeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. My 1er, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Manager Mailing List 
H. R. Titus 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistants 
C. H. Todd 
C. L. Altschul 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE.......................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—2:00 to 4:00 Mon days.
4:30 to 5:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible lor the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should De sent lo the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postofiice, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. ‘¿H
THE TECHNICAL STUDENT AND THE WAR.
The mental balance oJ: the average engineering .student is greatly 
disturbed. On the one hand we have the Secretary oil War and others 
in authority urging technical students to remain in college because 
engineers are so badly needed, and on the other we have them ignor­
ing their own advice and taking these very men in tRe draft. It is no 
wonder, then, that we have men here at Tech who have been waver­
ing for'weeks, undecided whether to wait or to enlist. The situation 
is particularly noticeable now because oil the fact that enlistments 
will close on the fifteenth of this month.
There is much to be said on both sides, but very little real in­
formation. So far as staying in school is concerned, it is absolutely 
true that graduate engineers are urgently needed. We know, for 
example, that Lehigh University has many more requests for men 
than can be filled, and our own institution has a stack of applications 
for graduates still remaining untouched. Every man in authority 
who has anything to say on the subject confirms the situation, and 
they unanimously urge undergraduates to remain in college until 
they are drafted. Many of the engineering institutions, hoping to 
continue at fairly normal rate, have sent a joint letter to the Council 
oil National Defense Requesting that engineering students, when 
drafted, be assigned to the duty ol! completing their education before 
being placed in active service. Tech did not take an active part in 
that request j and at any rate the letter has not been acted upon. On 
tho othor hand several institutions, of which we believe Cornell is 
one, despairing of ever being able to continue normally, have taken 
up intensive work. They will have no recesses or vacations, but, 
working all the year round, will, graduate students as rapidly as pos­
sible. Tech, it will be remembered, considered a -similar plan last 
spring, but decided not to adopt it.
But, looking at the situation from the other side, it certainly 
seems foolish for men who will be drafted soon lo remain in school, 
for it is not likely that anything will come ol’ the request to the 
Council ol! National Defense. The government realizes the need for 
engineers, but seems to be willing to get along with only partially 
trained men, and to be unwilling to withdraw so large a class of 
young men from the new army. II is certainly foolish, then, to be 
drafted as a private when by enlisting one can secure a commission, 
or at least enter some branch of the service more suited to the ability 
of a college man. Captain Carden, of the Coast Guard Service; Cap­
tain Hamilton, of the Aviation Corps, and our own Captain McCorlde 
have recently pointed out some of the opportunities. Also, it was 
rather with this point of view in mind that military drill has been 
supported here at Tech. It seems certain that most of our men will 
soon be in training and even a little experience along that line is of 
value then. We know of a number of cases where a little experience 
has aided a man to become a non-commissioned officer, and of at least 
one case where the lack of experience kept a student from securing 
a commission.
THE THISTLE.
'‘Hard sledding” is right in style these days, and no doubt this 
year’s Thistle will be no exception to the general rule. The work of 
composing and editing is a task at any time, but this year, in the 
midst of student uncertainty, it is doubly so. The work of managing 
and selling is equally difficult, and now, with so many calls for money, 
it is equally more difficult. Every student should think, then, very 
seriously, before he turns down the board’s request for the support 
which he can give by purchasing a receipt. It is a matter of help­
ing Tech when help is needed. December 13 and 14 are the only 
days this year when receipts may be secured.
To those new students who are strangers to The Thistle, we 
would especially urge this opportunity. By the time one reaches the 
tjppcr classes he invariably wishes that he had a complete file of year 
books, and then, or oven in the spring, when the-book is published, it 
will be too late. This is a big year at Carnegie; it may be your last 
Imre. You will find its whole record in The Thistle.
OFFICIAL NOTICES.
Beginning with this issue, The Tartan is instituting the custom 
of publishing together a special ist of official announcements. ¿This 
change is made with the approval, and really at the suggestion of the 
administrative council, so that the director, the registrar, and the 
deans may have some way of publishing authoritative notices. 
Nothing will be included in this column except what is actually issued 
over the signature of some member of the administrate e council.
to «4* v . A-
plies iv>
In accordance with the plans of the 
authorities to place before the stu­
dents reliable information regarding 
the different branches of military ser­
vice, in order that they might intelli­
gently choose, should they consider it 
their duty to join the colors, all three- 
thirty classes on Thursday afternoon, 
Nov. 22, were called off in order to 
give the students an opporfunify to 
hear Captain C. L. Carden, Chief Re­
cruiting Ofiicer "ol the U. S. Coast 
Guard Service.
The speaker was introduced by Dean 
Mott of the Science school. In his 
speech Capt. Carden impressed his 
audience with the high rank of this 
branch of Uncle Sam's military estab­
lishments. In this service every offi­
cer must be a graduate cadet. The 
physical examination for the enlisted 
man is stricter than that in any other 
branch of service, not excluding the 
marines. This high standard is neces­
sary, for even in times of peace, the 
work of the coast guards is extremely 
hazardous and requires a display of 
skill and courage. The work in peace 
times consists chiefly in assisting ves­
sels in distress and no matter what 
the state of wind or weather may be, 
the coast guard must set out to give 
aid immediately upon hearing the call:
Captain Carden cited many treasur­
ed traditions of the service. This 
branch was organized even before the 
navy and has fought in every war of 
the U. S. with one exception.
In the year 1876 the present cadet 
system was inaugurated. The Coast 
Guard Academy is now located at Fort 
Trumble at New London, Conn. Ad­
mission to this school is absolutely 
competitive, merit alone being the de­
ciding factor. Cadets are of two class­
es, Cadets of the Line, and Cadet En­
gineers. They are trained and educat­
ed to become navigation and com­
manding officers.
Because of the high standard re­
quired, the authorities are having some 
trouble in getting a sufficient number 
of capable men to enter the cadet 
classes. Since the standard will not 
be lowered it is therefore a question 
of getting a greater number of appli­
cants.
It is for this purpose that Capt. 
Carden is making a tour of the larger 
universities and technical institutions 
to give the students first hand infor­
mation.
Captain Carden announced that the 
next examination for entrance to the 
Coast Guard Academy will be held 
Dec. 17 next, and continuing four days. 
It is probable that if there is a suffi­
cient number of applicants from this 
district, a special examining board will 
be sent to Pittsburgh. An application 
must be accompanied by two letters 
of recommendation. No draftees are 
allowed lo apply.
? *
* M. M. C. S. DANCE *
•I* —---- 4*
* The M. M. C. S. Athletic Asso- *
ciation Dahce will be held in Car- 4*
*1* negie Union on Dec. 8. Admis- 4*
*1* sion for non-members, 50 cents. ** 4*
*1* *1’ ‘I* *¦!* *1* *i* *1* *1* 4* 'b 4* 'i' *1* *1* *i'
MANY BENEFITTED BY ILLUSTRATED LECTURE
“From the Ore to the Finished Pro­
duct" was the subject of a most in­
teresting and instructive lecture giv­
en before the Science student body at 
(he regular Wednesday assembly last 
week. The speaker was Mr. D. L. 
Kane, a representative of tho Nation­
al Tube Company. With tho aid of 
Ihree reels of excellent motion pic­
tures, he traced the different steps in 
the manufacture of a piece of Nation­
al tubing. The pictures showed the 
mining and transportation of the ore 
and the converting of the ore into 
iron al the blast furnaces, as well as 
the making of steel by both the open 
hearth and Bessemer processes was 
clearly depicted in the pictures. The 
rolling out of the ingots of steel into 
slabs and billets, butt-and lap weld­
ing, threading, finishing and other pro­
cesses pertaining more particularly to 
the manufacture of pipes were well 
described and clearly illustrated. Pan­
oramic views of the large steel mills 
at Loraine, Ohio, and the pipe mills 
at McKeesport, Pa., the largest in the 
world were also shown.
To any person especially interested 
the National Tube Company will glad­
ly furnish descriptive literature of any 
particular phase of pipe making.
•Jo #
•J* Get your photographs, comics, *5*
•S’ etc., into the Thistle boxes now. •*>
? Make the Thistle your book. 4*•£• 4*
C*« 9^4 41 ^1 41 41 ^1 41 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*
DAVIS THEATER
Musical comedy will contribute some 
of its most brilliant exemplars to the 
vaudeville performance at the Davis 
Theatre every afternoon and evening 
next week, beginning Monday, Decem­
ber 10. Mr. Davis has engaged a group 
of nine acts which represent vaude­
ville’s highest artistry and the great 
est possible variety. His headline at­
traction is Sallie Fisher and Com 
pany in “The Choir Rehearsal.” Miss 
Fisher is a prominent star of musical 
comedy and is well known as the suc­
cessor to Fay Templeton in George 
M. Cohan’s production of "Forty-five 
Minutes from Broadway."
Another musical comedy star in the 
program next week will be Dolly Con­
nolly, who has featured in the last re­
view at the Winter Garden. Miss 
Connolly will be assisted at the piano 
by the well known composer, Percy 
Wenrich, who has written all her 
songs.
FEATURE OF CLUB’S HOUSE DANCE
The Commons Club gave a most 
pleasant house dance last Wednesday 
night to celebrate Thanksgiving.
The house was artistically trimmed 
in laurel and ground pine, which com­
bination, because of its beauty, was 
exceedingly attractive.
At eleven o’clock, dancing stopped 
and a delicious lunch was served, af­
ter which dancing was resumed till 
one.
Sweeney’s music, and the success 
with which all plans were carried out 
made the affair a decided hit.
SCIENCE SOPHOMORES PUNISH LAW-BREAKERS
Judging from the appearance of cer­
tain phebeian heads in the Science 
school, after the Plebe party about two 
weeks ago, the sophomore who wield­
ed the clippers was not well informed 
in modern and civilized methods of 
trimming locks. Either that, or he 
was experimenting with sine curves 
on spherical surfaces. Nevertheless, 
the impromptu barber’s job was more 
satisfactory to “the powers that be” 
than was the behavior of those who 
suffered the exposure of their skulls 
to the cruel and unsympathetic gaze 
of the upper classmen.
There are at least five Plebes in the 
Science school, whom fond memories 
of that scene in the Physics lecture 
room will restrain from perpetrating 
such crimes as smoking “coffin-nails” 
in the Union and cussing sweetly at 
an innocent and law-abiding sopho­
more. Those, who were the guests of 
honor at the Plebe party, are: Mas­
ters Moll, Friday, Fellman, Osclien- 
bossel and Woodworth.
Not all these were saved the price 
of a hair cut. Some kindly lent their 
faces to be dabbled playfully with 
motely colors furnished by G. G. O’­
Brien and Co., and no Design school 
artist was secured for the occasion. 
Other Plebes who have not been liv­
ing up to the regulations are resting 
uneasily.
CIVILS AND SANITARIES ADDRESSED BY MR. RUBY
The Civil and Sanitary Engineering 
Society held their regular monthly 
meeting on Wednesday evening, Nov. 
21. The Building Construction Club 
of the School of Applied Industries, 
who were invited to attend the meet­
ing, were well represented.
After having disposed of the reg­
ular business, the meeting was given 
over to speeches. The main speech 
of the evening on the construction of 
Camp Louise Cantonment in the State 
of Washington was given by Mr. Ruby. 
Mr. Ruby, who is professor of Survey­
ing and Railroad Engineering in the 
Civil Engineering Department took an 
active part in the construction of 
Camp Louise. He told the society of 
the manner of construction, of the 
method of organization, and in con­
clusion stated how the camp might 
be constructed more cheaply provided 
adequate plans could be drawn. Mr. 
Ruby’s subject was interesting and 
right up to the minute in present day 
engineering construction.
The second speech on the develop­
ment jof an oven for the roasting of 
pyrite ores was given by Mr. F. J. 
Wood. Mr. Wood is a nite Civil and 
has been engaged in the construction 
of an oven for the efficient roasting 
of pyrite ores. His speech was in­
teresting because Of the countless dif­
ficulties which were encountered and 
how in every case they overcame the 
difficulties and finally produced an ef­
ficient oven. The sophomores were 
represented by Mr. Krebs who told 
about the construction of concrete coal 
bunkers at the mines of the Pittsburgh 
Coal Company.
The speeches having been conclud­
ed, the society had “eats.” Under the 
management of Mr. Huber, his assist­
ants Mr. Geus, Mr. Kaplan, and Mr. 
Urmston prepared a three course ban­
quet. Mr. Geus was the honored chef. 
We believe this banquet was the first 
of its kind.
The society takes great pleasure in 
entertaining those who desire to at­
tend their meetings. The experiment 
of having the members give addresses 
has proved successful and has creat­
ed much "pep” in the society. An in­
teresting program is being arranged 
for the next; meeting. All interested 
should watch for the notice.
FIFTH AVENUE HALL CELEBRATES HOLIDAY
On Thanksgiving Day, Fifth Avenue 
Hall had its annual Thanksgiving Din­
ner Party. Dinner was served at six- 
thirty. Eighteen couples were pres­
ent and Mike Sweeney’s spirited mu­
sic helped every one have a joyous 
evening.
SIGMA TAU TO BE INSTALLED 
SOON AS DELTA UPSILON CHAPTER
(Continued From Page One.) 
vard. It will be followed by luncheon 
at the same place, and then an auto 
ride and inspection of the Institute by 
the visiting fraternity men. In the 
afternoon there will be a performance 
of “Sweethearts” by the Drama stu­
dents from 3:00 to 4:00, and from 4:00 
to 6:00 there will be a reception, in­
formal, in the fraternity house at 153 
North Craig street. The ceremonies 
will be completed by a formal banquet 
in the evening for Delta Upsilon men 
and a few invited guests at the Uni­
versity Club. All arrangements tor 
the installation are in the hands of a. 
joint committee from the Pittsburgh 
Alumni Association of Delta Upsilon 
and from the Sigma Tau Fraternity.
The Delta Upsilon Fraternity had 
its beginning in Williams College in 
1834. The first chapters were formed 
rather in opposition to the secret 
Greek letters fraternities, but the atti­
tudes of the fraternity gradually 
changed until in 1881 it became “non­
secret” rather than “anti-secret.” In 
1885 the fraternity began an extension 
westward and northward, even into 
Canada, until now it includes forty- 
four active chapters throughout the 
country with a membership before the 
war of over thirteen thousand. Its 
chapters are in colleges both of the 
arts and of the sciences.
Sigma Tau is the oldest fraternity 
at Carnegie, having been founded soon 
after the schools themselves. It was 
originally located at 5143 Woodlawn 
avenue, where it was known as the 
Tech Pioneer Club, but later moved to 
5141 Woodlawn avenue, where it re­
mained as Sigma Tau until last spring 
when the fraternity moved to 153 
North Craig. The active members at 
the time of granting the -charter were 
J. P. Warner, G. W. Todd, C. K. Little, 
N. P. Rice, P. H. Armor, W. F. Wen- 
ning, N. I-I. Muller, J. L. Herrmann 
und M. J. Smith. There will be in­
stalled along with them a large num­
ber of their alumni and'the following 
men who have been initiated since 
first semester initiations have been 
permitted,—J. B. Serrin, E. H. Hughes,
C. Ii. Todd, B. A. Lawson, and F. J. 
Smith.
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRA 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 an 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Hoi. 
Days. Th
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M' 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craig 
street.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY ELECTS NEW SECRETARY
Results of the elections for Record­
ing Secretary of the student assem­
bly of the Industries school held Nov.
21 are as follows:
Oakley—63.
Perkins—58.
Yost—42.
WAR NEWS FROM 
OTHER COLLEGES
There are already 3,000 American 
university men, students and gradu­
ates, engaged in war work in France, 
and it is expected that in a short time 
there may be more than 10,000. As it 
is impossible for these men to spend 
their short leave in America, ;many 
will visit England. The authorities 
at Cambridge University are prepar­
ing to put up small groups of soldier 
students from the United States dur­
ing their furlough. It is felt that the 
American students would appreciate 
the privilege of being lodged in col­
lege, dining in hall, and living for a 
few days in the atmosphere of one of 
the older universities. Similar ar­
rangements are contemplated at Ox­
ford.
The formal opening and public in­
spection, on November 24, of Yale’s 
Artillery Hall, marked' the completion 
of the equipment for the university’s 
school of field artillery. This hall, in 
which the 674 members of the Yale 
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps will 
study the battery of French 75's re­
cently sent over for tlieir use, offers 
complete facilities for studying the 
technique of field artillery. It was 
built by the graduates at a cost- of 
$135,000.
Incomplete records up to the middle 
of November give the total number of 
Princeton graduates and undergrad­
uates who are in the service of the 
nation as 2,103. Of this number 970 
men, or over forty-five per cent, are 
in the army, while 364 men are en­
rolled in the medical service or in the 
ambulance corps. The navy has 250 
men, and 146 are in the aviation corps.
Ordnance Sergeant Murcli, of the 
arsenal at Watertown, Mass., has been 
detailed by the War Department to 
assist instructors in charge of the 
storekeeping course which is being 
given at the Wharton School, Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania. The fifth store- 
keeping course starts today. The 
course extends for six weeks, after 
which the students are assigned to 
arsenals.
SECONDARY SCHOOLS MEET HERE IN MARCH
GRACE CHURCH
(Reformed)
AYARD AND DITHRIDGE STREETS’. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor 
THE MAKEUP OF A MAN 
Students’ Series 
SUNDAY EVENING SERMONS 
At 7:45 
GENERAL SUBJECT:
"Man is a Soul and has a Body.” 
Nov. 18—The Searchlight of the Soul;. 
Nov. 25—The Steering Apparatus of' 
the Soul.
Dec. 2—The Alarm Clock of the Soul- 
Dee. 9—The Sunshine of the Soul.
Dec. 16—The Picture Gallery of the- 
Soul.
Dec. 23—Illustrated Lecture.
(Christmas.)
Dec. 30—The Soul’s Book-Keeper.
(The End of Year.)
ST. ANDREW’S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Centre and Morewood Avenues 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bible Classes at 9:30 A. M.
Morning Worship, 10:45; Evening* 
7:45. Helpful sermons on Bible* 
themes only.
A hearty welcome to students. 
HENRY P. ECKHARDT, Pastor.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow) r
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. ,M. and 
5:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages* 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Students Cordially Invited
---------to the---------
YOUNG MEN’S BARACA BIBLE 
CLASS
Every Sunday Morning—9:45
--------at---------
OAKLAND BAPTIST CHURCH 
McKEE PLACE and LOUISA STREET 
COME, VISIT US and enjoy an hour 
with the real Bible as it appeals to 
real men.
OAKLAND M. E. CHURCH 
Forbes and Bouquet Streets 
Rev. George Avery Neeld, 
Minister.
Morning Service at 10:45. 
Evenings at 7:45.
Bible School at 9:30 A. M. 
Sermon Subject Sunday Even­
ing, December 9:
“The Fascinations of Orientalism 
or Theosophy.”
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE­
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME 
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Men's Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR, D. D., Minister.
The next meeting of the Association 
of Secondary Schools of the Upper 
Ohio Valley and the Conference of 
the Colleges and Normal Schools of 
Western Pennsylvania will be held in 
March at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. These groups have been 
holding their sessions at the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh for a number of 
years.
RODEF SHALOM TEMPLE 
4905 FIFTH AVENUE 
Near Morewood 
Saturday Services—10:30 A. M. 
Sunday Lectures—10:30 A. M.
Visiting Rabbis from the lead­
ing congregations of the country 
will occupy the pulpit this win­
ter. A different Rabbi 
week.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS.
01021287

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 5, 1917THE TARTANPage
t
DO YOU DANCE?
IG LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon­
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
WD FORBES BELL PHONEBATTERY
“£xi£>e436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
SERVICE Repaired and Recharged
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
¦mini'
I Carnegie Institute of Technology
THE Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and students. 
The courses of instruction offered are:
School of Applied Science—Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining, and sanitary 
enginereing, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses in science in preparation for teaching or for research and 
graduate courses.
School of Applied Design—Offers courses in architecture, paint­
ing, decoration, illustration, music, sculpture and dramatic arts, open 
to men and women, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Also 
graduate courses.School of Applied Industries—Offers industrial courses in ma­
chine construction, building construction, general equipment and 
installation, and printing. Also a course for training industrial 
teachers, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Industrial 
Education. Short courses of eight months are offered in machine 
shop, pattern making, mechanical drawing, electric wiring, plumuing, 
foundry, forging and bricklaying for more mature applicants who 
have had some experience in these trades.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School—For women. Offers a regu­
lar day course of general training, with particular emphasis on 
home-making, followed by specialized training in household eco­
nomics, costume economics, home arts and crafts, general science, 
or social work, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. Also 
courses for the training of teachers in the above subjects.
Night Courses—The four schools offer night courses in practic­
ally all of the above subjects to provide educational opportunities 
for those who are at work during the day.
pees—The total fees for a day course are $48.00 a year for resi­
dents of Pittsburgh and $58.00 for non-residents. For night courses, 
$16.00 for residents, and $18.00 for non-residents.
For further information address Registrar, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh.
! PUBLIC REPORT PF AMERICAN HI D CROSS
1 STUDENTS
We rent and have for sale Full Dress, Tuxedos, single and 
double breasted frocks, and all accessories for day and even­
ing dress. Prices reasonable, efficient service.
WHSTTiNG DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-2-3 JENKINS ARCADE 
Both Phones.
Miuuiiaiauiuuiiiuiuiii!Hiiiiiiii)un]iuuiiiiHiiiiiiiiiifiifiiifiiififliiHiii!iiiii!iiiuiui!iiiiuiiaiiii!i!j
Mellon 
National 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. I 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000 1
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
M. M. C. S.
Miss Truitt and Miss McCandiess, 
of Margaret Morrison Schools, visited
Ü
with Miss Ellen Speers, of Speers, Pa., 
over Thanksgiving.
On behalf of the War Council of 
the American Red Cross, appointed by 
President Wilson, May 10, Henry P. 
Davison, chairman, today makes pub 
lie the report to the American people 
on the present state of the War Fund 
and the work which is being done by 
the American Red Cross in this coun­
try and different parts of the world. 
The report, in part, is as follows:
To the American People:
The Red Cross War Council here­
with reports on the work of the Red 
Cross during the almost six months 
which have elapsed since its appoint­
ment by the President.
Included herein are details as to col­
lections on account of the War Fund 
and appropriations made from the 
Fund, up to November 1.
The growth of Red Cross activities 
among the suffering civilian popula­
tions in the different allied countries 
is, up to this time, the outstanding 
feature of Red Cross work in this 
war. The magnitude of the work in 
France is particularly impressive.
Aims of the Red Cross.
Broadly speaking, the Red Cross 
War Council has proceeded upon the 
theory that the present work of the 
American Red Cross should contrib­
ute to these great aims.
1. To be ready to care for our sol­
diers and sailors on duty wherever 
and whenever that care may be 
needed.
2. To shorten the War—by strength­
ening the morals of the allied peoples 
and their armies, by alleviating their 
sufferings in the period which must 
elapse until, the American army can 
become fully effective abroad.
3. To lay foundations for an endur­
ing peace—by extending a message 
of practical relief and sympathy to 
the civilian population among our al­
lies, carrying to them the expression 
of the finest side of the American 
character.
The American people have gener­
ously supported the work of the Red 
Cross, and this report of activity is 
given with great fullness in the hope 
that through it the public may realize 
both the obligation and the opportun­
ity which the future presents.
Appropriations in the U. S.
The direct appropriation from the 
war fund for work in the United 
States are divided as follows:
Hospitals, etc................. 184,500.00
Sanitary service ............. 184,500.00-
Camp service, etc.............. 2,528,729.00
Miscellaneous .................. 93,487.60
$3,310,216.60 
Base Hospital Units Equipped.
Forty-nine Army base hospital units 
and five for the Navy have been' re­
cruited, organized and equipped by the 
Red Cross. More than twelve of the 
Army units and two of the Navy units 
have now* been mustered into their re­
spective Medical Corps and are seeing 
service. These units can care for a 
500-bed hospital each, and some of 
them have been reinforced to enable 
them to take over larger hospitals.
The Red Cross has also organized 45 
ambulance companies, with a total 
personnel of 5,580, all of which have 
been taken info the Army Medical 
Corps, some for service abroad, others 
for .the camps and cantonments. A 
General Hospital, for the use of the 
Navy, has been established at Phila­
delphia. Convalescent homes have 
been built at Fort Oglethorpe and 
Fort McPherson, Georgia, and mobile 
laboratory cars are to be provided for 
use in case of emergencies at the 
camps.
The Work in Europe.
The work of the Red Cross in Eu­
rope centers necessarily in France, 
and Major Grayson M.-P. Murphy, a 
member of the War Council, is head 
of the Commission to France and 
Commissioner for Europe. Headquar­
ters are in Paris, In a building fur­
nished free for the current year for 
the use of the Red Cross. The work­
ing staff in France numbers 864 per­
sons, of whom only 347 are paid by 
the Red Cross. The others are vol­
unteers, or are paid by their former 
employers or from funds privately 
subscribed, so that the average cost 
to the Red Cross is only about $300 
per year for each worker.
Red Cross Aims Abroad.
The principal purposes of The work 
of the American Red Cross abroad 
may be summarized thus:
1. To do everything possible to as­
sist our army and navy in insuring 
the health and comfort of American 
soldiers and sailors abroad, and
2. To relieve suffering among the 
armies and destitution among the 
civilian populations among our allies.
The establishment and maintenance 
in France of canteens, rest houses, 
recreation huts, and other means of 
supplying comforts in the armies of 
our allies have been the means of 
heartening them and keeping their 
men in the field until our men could 
become fully effective.
The details which follow here are 
supplemental to those given In the re­
port issued in September.
Our Army Our First Care.
Work for the American Army is the 
first and most important part of the 
Red Cross program in France. More 
than twelve base hospitals organized 
by the Red Cross, and now mustered 
into the Army Medical Corps, are in 
service in France. The Red Cross is 
also administering, under Army con­
trol, the hospital at Neuilly, formerly 
known as the American Ambulance, 
i together with Dr. Joseph A. Blake’s 
, hospital In Paris.
The Red Cross is serving 3,423 mili­
tary hospitals, both French and Amer­
ican, through the Hospital Supply 
Service, which operates .sixteen ware­
houses and a motor transport system. 
Approximately 15,000 tons of material 
—hospital and general relief supplies 
—are distributed monthly from these 
warehouses. The Surgical Dressings 
Service reaches 2,000 hospitals. Amer­
ican workshops in France will manu­
facture nitrous oxide, repair hospital 
apparatus, make .splints and hospital 
appliances.
Appropriations for France.
Included in appropriations for 
France are the following:
Budget for military relief, including 
work for the American Army, hospi­
tals, canteens, hospital supply service, 
surgical dressings esrvice, casualty 
service, etc., to November 1, *$2,411,- 
225; budget for civilian relief, Includ­
ing refugee and reconstruction work, 
relief of mutilated soldiers, infant 
welfare, tuberculosis prevention, etc., 
to November 1, $2,460,467; budget for 
Department of Administration in Paris 
and Planning Department, to Novem­
ber 1, $119,590.
Additional appropriations for hospi­
tals, etc, $1.407,57S.25; additional ap­
propriations, for transportation serv­
ice, $1,423,598190; other appropria­
tions, $12,77S,7S0.85.
Commissions to Other Countries.
In addition to the Commission to 
France, commissions were sent to in­
vestigate conditions and extend imme­
diate relief in Russia. Roumania, Ser 
bia, and Italy. The Russian Commis­
sion has completed its survey, and 
some of its members have returned to 
the United States, leaving an oper­
ating organization in Petrograd.
The Italian Commission has also re­
turned to the United States, and an 
operating commission is to be sent to 
Italy as quickly as possible.
The Commission to Italy used an 
appropriation of $200,000 for imme­
diate relief in that country. 'The Red 
Cross acted promptly when the Ital­
ians were forced to retreat, pledging 
its aid through Ambassador Page and 
placing a special relief fund of $250,- 
000 at its disposal. This was later 
raised to $750,000.
Commissions are at work in Rou­
mania and Serbia. A Commission 
and Deputy Commission have been 
assigned to England, and a special de­
partment has been set up for Bel­
gium.
Tn Belgium the work or the Red 
Gross, which is confined to the part 
of the country still held by the Allies, 
is chiefly in co-operation with the 
relief interests of the King and Queen. 
The Red Cross is assisting Belgian 
hospitals and children’s refugees, aid­
ing Belgian villagers to re-establish 
themselves in the devastated zone 
left by the retreating Germans, and 
helping to care for Belgian children, 
both in Belgian and in France and 
Switzerland.
Appropriations Outside of France.
The total appropriations (cents 
omitted), for the work outside of 
France up to November 1 are as fol­
lows :
For Belgium ..........................$ 720,001.
For England .......................... 1,066,520
¦’¦For Italy ............................. 214,000
For Russia ........................... 1,359,440
For Roumania ..................... 1,518,398
For Serbia............................ 493,203
For Armenians and Syrians. 1.800,000
Other appropriations ........... 113,012
Total...............................$7,284,574
"¦Later the War Council appropri­
ated $750,000 for emergency relief In 
Italy.
Work for the Children.
At Evlan, where French refugees, 
mostly women and children, who have 
been held prisoner behind the German 
lines are returned to France, the Red 
Cross has provided motor ambulances 
for the transportation of the sick and 
feeble and has opened children’s hos­
pitals. Hundreds arrive there almost 
dally, destitute and sick.
Special work has been begun for 
mothers, infants and children. The 
Red Cross has sent three detachments 
of children’s specialists to care for 
babies and expectant mothers, in the 
hope of checking the increase in in­
fant mortality.
At two centers the Red Cross is car­
ing for orphans and children from 
bombarded villages. A large refuge 
has been opened at one, at which sick 
and neglected children are being given 
expert medical care. From the other 
a traveling dispensary and shower 
bath is being sent out daily to make 
the rounds of the nearby villages.
Relief of Refugees.
Relief of refugees throughout the 
devastated zone has been undertaken 
by the Red Cross. Relief warehouses
EJ r|]Zoel J. Parenteau
V. D. NIRELLA
A. David Broudy 
Efficiency with Elegance 
THE NIRELLA ORCHESTRAS 
410 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone Grant 360 
Service which is a Distinctive 
Asset to Host and Hostess.
have been placed at strategic points 
behind the lines, from which food, 
clothing, household goods, agricultural 
implements and tools are being dis­
tributed to the returning refugees. 
Foodstuffs to the value of $2,870,300 
have already been bought In France 
or shipped there for military and civ­
ilian relief.
In good agricultural districts the 
Red Cross is co-operating with the 
French government and with Ameri­
can and English friends in assisting 
the population of ruined villages to 
begin repair of houses, etc.
Military Medical Research.
An appropriation of $100,000 has 
been made to enable the American 
doctors now in France to procure 
suitable buildings. Special laboratory 
equipment and animals for experi­
mental purposes, for special military 
medical research work looking toward 
the recognition and study of diseases 
among soldiers, the eradication of lice, 
fleas and scabies, the treatment of 
trench nephritis, trench heart, war 
neurasthenia, exhaustion, lethal gases, 
shell concussion wound infection, com­
pound fractures, etc. The recom­
mendation for this, like all others of 
a medical nature, was submitted to an 
advisory medical board composed of 
leading American doctors working 
with our own forces. They approved 
it.
The question has been raised as to 
whether the appropriation for medical 
research was not outside the proper 
scope of Red Cross activity. The an­
swer is simple. The supreme aim of 
the Red Cross is to relieve human 
suffering growing out of this war. 
The Red Cross was advised from the 
ablest professional sources that an 
immediate appropriation for medical 
research would contribute toward 
that end. The War Council could not 
disregard such advice.
All recommendations to the Red 
Cross War Council of medical, surgi­
cal or hospital character are, before 
being made by the Commission I to 
France, submitted to the advisory 
medical board in France, and they 
also laid before the medical advisory 
board in this country by the Wnr 
Council. It thus has at its disposal in 
these vital matters the most expert 
advice obtainable.
All expenditures under this appro­
priation must first have the recom­
mendation of the chief medical ofilcer 
of the American Expeditionary Force, 
Brig.-Gen. A. E. Bradley.
DISTRIBUTION AND SALE DF SAVINGS STAMPS
On or about December 3, 1917, War- 
Savings Certificate Stamps and United 
States Thrift Stamps (together with 
Thrift Cards and War-Savlngs Certifi­
cates, with suitable pocket envelopes 
for such certificates) will be furnished
(1) to postotllcos for sale to the pub­
lic and to agents of the first class, and
(2) to Federal Reserve Banks, as 
fiscal àgents of the United States, for 
distribution to agents of the second 
class, and also for sale to banks which 
are agents of the first class. Post- 
ofilces and Federal Resorvo Banks will 
maintain available supplies of stamps, 
certificates, and cards In amounts suf­
ficient to meet the requirements for 
such distribution and salos.
Banks, bankers, and trust com­
panies; railroad and express com­
panies; department and other retail 
stores; the duly authorized represen­
tatives of labor, fraternal, and other 
associations; and other corporations, 
partnerships, and individuals who pa­
triotically offer their services without 
expense, either to the United States 
or to the purchasers, will be among 
those whom the Secretary of the 
Treasury will in his discretion ap­
point as agents to sell the stamps, cer­
tificates, and cards.
Blank forms of application for ap­
pointment as agent, with necessary in­
formation as to execution and filing, 
may be obtained from any money- 
order postofiice, from agent banks, or 
from State or local representatives of 
the National War-Savlngs Committee. 
Appointments will be made only un­
der authorization of the Secretary of 
the Treasury.
No agent shall sell any United 
S‘ates Thrift Stamp at any price other 
than 25 cents for each stamp, nor any 
War-Savings Certificate Stamp at any 
* >e other than the current issue 
price of such stamp during the month 
in which sold.
EX-SECRETARY FIELD NOW MAJORJNJVIATION
Mr. William Field, former Secretary 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy, has been commissioned a major 
in the Aviation Corps. Major Field 
is now located at Cornell University, 
hut expects to be in France on active 
service within a very short time.
DESIGN ADDRESS.
§ Bellefield Shoe ¡ 
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library. r?j 
High class work done while you [|j 
wait.
LOW PRICES TO TECH M 
STUDENTS pj
Give us a trial.
Miss Alice Laughlln, of the Patriotic 
League, will address the women of the 
Design School after Assembly today. 
The Patriotic League Is connected 
with the Junior War Work Council, 
National Board, Y. W. C. A.
* * ‘I* ****** * * * * * * * »1« 
¦i• *
* HARE AND HOUND ** *
* As announced previously the *
* track management hopes to hold *
* a hare and hound race every Sat- *
* urday. There is a cup for the *
4* winner. *
«2» * v * * <b 4* * * * * * * 'b * *
THE i -,
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER ». 
FOR THE 
STUDENT
Thihrd
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any­
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
lllllllllllllllllllllIIIIM
MSMÎ3MSMÎ3M2M3J3M3MSM3M3M3M2/Ë 
[I Bell Phone 3465 Grant." J. G. Marshall
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Liberty Show 
Print
PHIPPS POWER BUILDING 
Duquesnc Way and Fifth Ave. 
PITTSBURGH
pMaiSHHMM
EATS”
J
A good place to got a good meal. |j?J 
Meet your frlcndn here on [•;] 
rvj Sunday evening.
I FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. ™ 
CRAIG AND FORBES
______________________s
¦I .'IOAKLAND 
HARDWARE CO.
HARDWARE AND 
HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 
3606 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
l3/c?/S/2/S/3/i3/D2/t3/S/in/el/ci/eyi3/iD/i3/S/iiiJS/i3/SJ3fS/i3
Our convenient location In Oakland 
enables us to give you excellent serv­
ice. Cleaning and pressing done on 
short notice. Special service to fra­
ternities and rooming houses. Let us 
have a trial order. Call Schenley 875.
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
I WEBER EXPRESS AND | 
STORAGE COMPANY
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. |
Moving, Packing and Storing || 
ij of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- g 
[jD era I Hauling Baggage to and j| 
2j from Depots.
r51 4616-18-20 HENRY STREET |
| PITTSBURGH G?
nD 1
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac­
tory Rebuilt Ma­
chines.
American Writing'Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
fs/s/s/s/sjüî/s/s/ilycyin/üyïn/s/îD/nî/ïn/üî/sjüyëi/ci/in/s/ô/sj
1 GET YOUR HAIR CUT ia s«•] ---------at the-------- nHil TECH BARBER SIOP
Nearest to Tech 
| COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
3 FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
D

---------------------------------------------------

FourTHE TARTANWednesday, December 5, 1917
approximately forty men control the 
industrial and financial wealth of Ger­
many.
Germany feared that she would not 
only fail to acquire more trade, hut 
that she would lose what she had, 
partly through the United States,, who 
was making great strides in capturing 
foreign trade, mainly in South Amer­
ica and Great Britain. Germany then 
turned toward Egypt. If Germany 
had Egypt she would be safe. But 
England was in the way. She had 
Egypt and kept Germany out. Ger­
many made several attempts to get; 
different parts of the globe, but Eng-1 
land always was in the way. Eng­
land then must be eliminated. Ger­
many must have a fleet a little over I 
half the size of England’s, and con­
centrated her whole fleet on a small 
part of England’s fleet. She must 
paralyze Russia and France by a quick 
blow, then England would be at her 
mercy. Three things, however, de­
feated Germany — Belgium’s stand, 
England’s intervention and the world’s 
revulsion of feeling against her.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES UNO HOSIERY PENN AND FR1KST0H 
Footprints Lead to Detection
Secretary Baker has taken., steps to 
check unnecessary reduction of the 
supply, of scientifically trained men. 
In a letLer to Dr. Hollis Godfrey, of 
the Advisory Educational Commis­
sion of the Council of National De­
fense, made public December 1, he 
deplored students leaving school ex­
cept when drafted, and pointed out 
the increasing need the government 
would have for men who have taken 
special courses in science.
Students Here Have Chance 
to Become Acquainted 
With Faculty News
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwear—if he iw 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are “all right.” Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
Mr, H. .T. McCorkle has received a | 
commission as captain in the Coast ] 
Artillery Reserve Corps. He has ( 
been assigned to the Coast Defense j 
Camp at DuPont, N. J., and will re- j 
port there about December 12. Mrs. } 
McCorkle will accompany him. Until j 
that date he will be in Pittsburgh. ( 
Word has been received*“ of the safe 
arrival in France of Dr. Blair, who 
sailed recently with the Civilian Re­
lief Corps for service in the war zone.
Professor Helen M. Pope gave the 
first of a series of four lectures on 
Food Conservation in Carnegie Lec­
ture Hall on November 25, before the 
Pittsburgh Council of Jewish Women.
Dean Breed presided at a joint meet­
ing in the M. M. C. S. on November
22, of the Pittsburgh Bryn Mawr Club, 
the College Club, and the local branch 
of the National Association of Col­
legiate Alumnae. President M. Carey 
Thomas, of Bryn Mawr, and Mrs. Ger­
trude Martin, executive secretary of 
the N. A. C. A., were the guests of 
honor.
Mr. J. P. Tumpane, in charge of the 
Bureau of Recommendations, was 
married to Miss Jean Mamaux, of 
Meyran avenue, Pittsburgh, on 
Thanksgiving Day.
Mr. John A. David lectured before 
the Women’s Club of Washington, Pa., 
on December 1, on “Blessed Be Hu­
mor.”
Alvord B7*Churchill, formerly with 
the Administrative Staff, is a second 
lieutenant in the Field Artillery, U. 
S. R., stationed at Camp Devens, 
Ayer, Mass.
Shirley Mason, formerly of the M. 
M. C. S. faculty, has enlisted in the 
Aviation Corps, and is at the U. S. 
Ground School, Ohio State University.
Dr. Clias. R. Fettlce gave the first 
of his series of four illustrated lec­
tures on "Surface Agents and the 
Changes That They Produce on the 
Earth,” before the Section of Biology 
and Geology, Pittsburgh Academy of 
Science and Art, in the Rehearsal 
Hall, Carnegie Institute, November
23. The second lecture is scheduled 
for December 11.
Professor J. E. Rush will talk to the 
Section on Hygienics, Academy of 
Science and Art, in the Carnegie Lec­
ture Hall, on December 1*1, on “The 
Functions of the Sanitary Engineer in 
Guarding Public Health.”
Professor Allan Ii. Willett spoke at 
the Hungry Club, November -26, on 
"The Economies of War.”
Dr. Walter V. Bingham, on leave of 
absence for throe months for govern­
ment work, is at present on a tour of 
the Southern , training camps in con­
nection with the psychological tests 
which the government War Depart­
ment has adopted ns one of the menns 
of determining the classification and 
promotion of men in the army.
Professor Marine Holmes has been 
j appointed third delegate of the local 
' Collegiate Vocational Bureau at the 
meeting of the Central' Committee of 
Vocational Bureaus dn New York, Der 
comber 7, 8 and 0. Doan Florence 
Hoot, of Pennsylvania. College for 
Women, and Miss Esther Smith, di­
rector of the local bureau, are the 
other delegates.
Dr. Guy M. Whipple spoke before 
(lie Teachers’ Institute at Oil City last 
week on the subject, "Training Chil­
dren in the Class-Room to Study to 
More Advantage.”
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
j CAPITAL,.................................................  $200,000.00 (
SURPLUS,........................................................................$200,000.00 ¡
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
I) rinvili and Mnlliamatlcal Imit'ru-mcn In.
Art» mid Cruft« Supplie».
Fino Tool»
Completo Manual Training Equip*
A committee of the Society for the 
Promotion of Engineering Education, 
consisting of President McNair, Dean 
Anthony, Professor Swain, Dean 
Ketchum and President 1-Towe, lias re­
cently sent to the Secretary of War 
a letter signed by representatives of 
most of the engineering colleges, urg­
ing that drafted men who are en­
gineering students be detailed to the 
colleges from which they come for 
the purpose of completing their 
courses. Such students would receive 
instruction for at least 5 hours per 
week, and be subject to recall into 
active service at any time, especially 
those who fail to maintain standing.
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
illlllilini!!llllilllllllllölilllFiillllillllll!IllilllllIUI!l!l!l!IIIIIIM ...Tech was well represented in the 
Pitt-Camp Lee football game last Sat­
urday, by Phil Marshall, who starred 
at left half for Tech during the sea­
sons of 1915 and 1916. His open field 
running and returning of kicks were1 
the most prominent features of the 
Camp Lee attack.
Without the co-ordination of well- 
drilled interference, to which he be­
came accustomed while under Coacli 
Steffen, his ability as an individual 
performer was more in evidence. He 
tore up the Pitt line and skirted the 
ends consistently throughout the 
game.
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllltllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
“A National Institution”
g Browning, King & Company !
I CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR I 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN ¦
439-441 WOOD STREET
linuiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiinDniiir.iiiiiniiniimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiNiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiiniiHiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiHiimiiniiiiiniiiiiniiioiiiiiiiiniiiiiUHHiiiiDiiaimiiininiiniiiiiiinoiiffl
ì 230-23* 
Diamond Sx
PiraUURGJI
By action of the Administrative 
Council, November 23, Dean Bos- 
sange’s new plan for qualifying 
courses for entrance to the Design 
School was approved, and will be put 
Into effect at the beginning of the 
second semester. The plan, in brief, 
will offer an opportunity for high 
school .students and preparatory 
schools of equal rank in the Pitts­
burgh district, anticipating entrance 
to the Design School, to'secure in­
structions in their technical subjects 
on Saturday mornings during their 
high school courses and under mem­
bers of our faculty. They will not be 
registered as „Institute students, and 
the work they do will not count 
toward either oui' degree or high 
school graduation. The plan will pro­
duce better prepared material for our 
art courses and will make possible the 
elimination of much instruction of an 
elementary character that it is now 
necessary to give during the ' first 
jtear. The plan will not mitigate 
against students coming to Tech from 
other places where art Instruction 
cannot be secured, for out-of-town 
students the elementary work will bo 
given until they reach a ^certain pro­
ficiency in technical work—until such 
a standard Is reached the technical 
work will not count towards tlio de­
gree. The scheme will make it pos­
sible to raise the standards for grad­
uation. Instruction will he given In 
freehand drawing, design, architec­
tural drafting, color and modeling— 
Instruction on all the Instruments of 
the orchestra, ensemble and orches­
tral work, and diction acting and 
dancing.
CANDIES
GROCERIES TOBACCO
Patronize Home Industry
CANDYLUNCHES
Woodlawn Avenue. 8
¡líiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiniiiiiiiíiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiíiniiiniü
You can’t miss us.
IllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllDirector Arthur A. Hamersclilag, 
as chairman of a committee whose 
purpose is to get every student to 
join the Red Cross during the week 
of December l'6th to 24tli, requests 
the presidents of each of the classes, 
day and night, in each of the four 
schools to arrange to meet him and 
become members of this committee. 
In addition to the presidents of each 
of the classes, the Director appoints 
the following faculty members to act 
on this committee: Professor Es-
querre, Dr. Marks, Dr. Gould, Mr. J. 
Howard McCulloch, Prof. O’Brien, 
Prof. Hinman, Prof. Morris, Prof. 
Ihrig.
There is no finer expression 
of friendship than the sending 
of a Box of R. V. B. Chocolates.
"Aslc the girl who knows."A. ASLIS—Tailor
Cleaning and pressing.Maker of fine clothes.
MODERATE PRICES
SELLING AT ALL 
STORES
4692-R Schenley120 MEYRAN AVENUE
McDOUG-ALL’S DANCING CLASSES I
& SHADY AND PENN—DANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 8 
4616 FORBES STREET—FRIDAY EVENINGS 8
[a Private Lessons and Beginners’ Classes every day and evening. S
H Jazz Fox Trot - Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra [3
Style* 
of Type 
and Mnny 
Lan«unges
A Typewriter Exceptional
For Collegiali«
Cliniifto your typo in an instant from ouo 
stylo to another- -or any luiiKuajjo.THE TURKISH -^¦OGABEni
THE
MULTIPLEX
HAMEVSOND
PACKAGES
TENS AND TWENTIESNot by accident is Murad 
the greatest selling cigarette in 
America.
SOMETHING did it. What?
Goodness—that’s all. Unchang­
ing, unmistakable, inimitable, irresist­
ible, Goodness.
For further particulars—
Two del« of lype in each machine. 
"Juit Turn llm Knoll" PwitÖ one nr tlio oilier 
Sitnplo—Compaul—Portable 
Beautiful work—beyond compare.
If not inclined to a new machine, 
inquire for our Factory Rcbuilln.
Wc Rent Machines of high quality. 
Putronai President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val Dr. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Kev. II. C.Trant Bishop John C. Murray William Dean Howells also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
| interest you. Catalog for the asking.
I Hammond Typewriter Co.
545 Emit 69th Street ^
111 1 New Yorlc City. N. Y. J
BESSEMER BLDG., PITTSBURGH
The Registrar has recenved a letter 
from the Registrar of M. I. T., in 
which it Is stated that the question 
of placing the Institute on a war-time 
basis is being considered, of running 
it' twelve months in the year instead 
of eight. It is proposed to graduate 
the present Senior Class in December 
or January, at least those who an­
ticipated work last summer. In this 
way many Seniors will secure their 
degrees before being called under the 
second draft. Work is also being or­
ganized so that the Junior Class may 
get through by the first of next Oc­
tober, as the students in this class 
worked during last summer vacation, 
and will do the same next summer. 
M. I. T. is also anxiously .waiting for 
direct information from Washington 
to know whether or not its men will 
be detailed back to the Institute. On 
the basis of accelerating the work it 
would seem that perhaps the War 
Department would consider more fav­
orably detailing them back for the 
completion of their training.
"Why is the War?” Such was the 
beginning of Mr. Barnes’ talk to the 
students of the School of Applied In­
dustries at the Assembly, Wednesday, 
Barnes condensed what should have 
been a three hours’ talk into twenty 
minutes, .and proved in a very con­
clusive way- that Germany was the 
aggressor.
Mr. Barnes, in his line of argument, 
assumed the theory that Germany 
was the aggressor in fact as well as 
in spirit, and then supported his 
hypothesis with a well arranged series 
of arguments and facts that left little 
doubt as to the conclusion. But why 
did Germany begin the war? Accord­
ing to Von Beulow’s own statement, 
"Germany demanded her place in the 
sun.” Colonies must'be had to realize 
this ambition. But no more areas are 
left suitable for European colonies. 
Germany admits-this. In the Mesopa- 
tamian valley the country is wild and 
heat frightful German immigrants 
could not stand it. Germany does not 
want this land for colonial expansion. 
She wants it as a menace to the pos­
sessions of other countries.
A manufacturer is only making 
good profits when working at crowded 
capacity. For this end a good market 
is needed. A constant and available 
market can be secured by monopoliz­
ing the supply of raw materials. This 
was Germany’s policy—to control the 
trade of the weaker nations whether 
they liked it or not.
Mr. Barnes then outlined the sys­
tem of the Bundesratli and Landtag, 
and how they are always working ih 
co-operation for their own benefit and 
to the detriment of the common peo­
ple. The speaker also illustrated how 
Prussia controls the empire and how
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTYMAGDAccnnfia/UL IfUMuui 'un^ßi
A screen drama with a big, compell- 
ing theme, starring the great emotion­
al actress
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG/s&'uvunifioö'——
Makers of the Highest Grade Turkish 
and Egyptian Cigarettes in the Worlda ®1 STUDENT LUNCHEON im gd3 Milk or Coffee, 5c Pie, 5c per cut ij 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
3 Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c £j 
Ice Cream, 10c 
f THE HALLER BAKERY [f|
| 3610 FORBES STREET [;;]
Iroquois Block.
nil
REMEMBER—
Turkish tobacco is 
the world’s moat 
famous tobacco for 
cigarettes.
Candidates for the Varsity Basket 
Ball Team responded to tlio summons 
of Manager Pitts and Coach McCol- 
lough last week. Whllo there is 
plenty of good material both old and 
new, conditions are such that no pre­
dictions can now he made relative to 
the constitution of the team. There 
will he a hot fight for (he positions 
opened by Captain Green, Captain- 
elect "Nig” Finlay and Abe Levy 
leaving school to enter the service.
The basket ball schedule, as well as 
those of other sports, suffered on ac­
count of the war. Manager Pitts will 
probably take final action this week 
on a couple of pending offers for 
games, and the schedule will then be 
announced.
' The registration for the four schools 
as of December 1,.was as follows:
li) 17-1S 1916-17
Science ....................... 997 108-1
Design ........................ 562 614
Industries ...-............ 1557 17SS
M. M. C. S................... 5S6 -177
Psychology ................. 176 173
Gross .................
Withdrawals, etc.
01124222
