SENIOR BALL 
FRIDAY, MARCH 20 
UNION
SCIENCE-INDUSTRIES 
ASSEMBLY TODAY IN 
218 SCIENCE
VOL. XIX No. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1925
TICKET SALE|0ffer Twenty Dollars For Best Campus Week Slogan ¡AH FOOL’S DAY||
PREPARATIONS ? 
ARE COMPLETED!?
FOR INDUSTRIES 
SMOKER OPENS
Annual Election of Most 
• Representative Man to 
be Held
ASSESSMENT 
ONLY TWO BITS
To Stage Inter-Departmental 
Stunt Contests For 
A. T. Cup
The sale of admission pasteboards 
for the big Industries smoker to be 
held in the UDion the evening of 
March twenty-eight, will open today, 
at the unpi-ecedented price of twenty- 
five cents, or two bits, per ticket. 
This is the total price—not a pre 
liminary fee—and each Induscries 
man is asked to buy only one ticket.
The comm.ttee depends on a prac­
tical 100 per cent sale to make the 
affair, at this bargain rate, a suc­
cess; but more than that, a 100 per 
cent attendance is desired, to pro­
mote tbe spirit of the school and 
make this an evening memorable as 
tbe time when good fellows get to­
gether.
The events of the evening will in­
clude the election, an annual event, 
of the most representative Carnegie 
man in the Indus.ries Senior class. 
Filling out of ballots and the an­
nouncement of the winner will all 
take place at the smoker. A page 
in the Thistle will be devoted to 
this election. Popularity, scholarship, 
non-curricUlar activities and good1 
character should determine the 
choice.
The "big doings” will be the stunt 
contest between departments for pos­
session of the cup donated liy Alpha 
Tau, scholastic honorary fraternity. 
The building constructors and ma­
chine productitonists report great ac- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
A prize of twenty dollars will be 
awarded for the best Campus Week 
slogan submitted to lhe committee 
before April first. The competition 
will be open to all students, alumni,,, 
and faculty and no limit is placed as 
to the number of ideas which may be 
submitted.
The slogan shall be designed to 
feature alumni home-coming, stress­
ing the trend to return to the old 
Alma Mater annually. Campus Week 
is essential an alumni nustitution. 
planned to bring the alumni back to 
the scene of their student days and
JUNIORS CAPTURE 
SCIENCE STAG CUP
’26 Wins Trophy For Putting 
on Best Act at Annual 
Engineers' Fest
PROFS STAR IN STUNT
rouse some of the old spirit and love 
which they so poignantly experienc­
ed during their four years at Car­
negie.
The future of our school depends 
largely upon the interest the alumni 
take in its welfare and hence it is of 
prime importance that as many of 
the old grads be drawn back for Cam­
pus Week as possible. It is to pro­
mote this interest that a slogan is 
desired and the prize will be award­
ed for the one which presents this 
idea most cleverly, briefly and force­
fully.
The entries will be turned over to
Professors Follows and Schoen of tho 
Commercial Engineering and Psvch- 
olgy Departments, wljo have consent­
ed to serve as judges. Siflce both 
| are specialists in the field of adver­
tising and selling, their opinion will 
prove of great value.
All ideas must be submitted to W. 
Winning, care of C. 1. T. Post Office, 
before April first. Entries must be 
typewritten, double-spaced and not 
more than five per page. Standard 
eight-and-a-half by eleven paper 
must be used and the contestant's 
name may appear on the envelope 
only.
.j. * * * * * * * * *
TEA DANCE IN UNION A * 
WEEK FROM TOMORROW v
Instructions Given to Heads 
of Assemblies, Judges and 
Parade Marshals
COSTUME DISPLAY 
SET FOR MARCH 31
BISHOP MANN WILL SPEAK
AT CHAPEL SERVICES THURS.
Hold Joint Assembly 
In 218 Science Today
Dramat Stunts and Sennett 
Comedy Head Bill
The Becond joint assembly will be 
held today in Room 218 Science. The 
committee in charge has arranged a 
fine program. There will be moving 
pictures, one of Mack Sennett’s fam­
ous comedies having been secured. 
Several members of the Dramatic 
Department will entertain in the usu­
al manner. Their program at the 
last assembly can easily bo remem­
bered. Another feature is a seven- 
piece orchestra.
These joint assemblies have been 
so successful in the past that they 
will probably become permanent in 
a short time. The attendance has 
been extraordinary. Evidently the 
student body heartily endorses tbe 
present assembly system, if increas­
ed attendance at assemblies is any 
indication.
PUPPET’S PHONEY NUMBER
TO APPEAR THIS TUESDAY
“A novelty is the great parent of 
pleasure”. So, the "Phoney number” 
of The Puppet, which is to make its 
public appearance about the middle 
of March, is replenished with new­
ness, freshness and strange things.
The name itself Is enigmatical 
enough to cover a multitude of Bins. 
As a souvenir from a prominent so­
cial function is especially desired, so 
a copy of the “Phoney number” will 
be fully appreciated and several 
copies may be procured, for your 
friends, thus assuring a pleasant 
hour to the one to whom it is sent.
A new style of make-up, is used 
this time and the cover is designed 
by Curt Colvin, the renowned art 
editor.
M. M. STUDENT-FACULTY 
TEA SET FOR MARCH 25
On Wednesday, March 25, the Sen­
ate of Margaret Morrison will give a 
party for all the students of that 
school and the members of its facul­
ty. This party is to be similar to the 
All Fools-’ Day party last year. There 
is to be music and dancing, refresh­
ments, and entertainment. Stunts 
by tho freshmen, the members of the 
various departments, and the faculty 
are to be part of the attraction at 
the party.
Those who attended last year will 
probably never forget the faculty 
stunt, and it is to be expected that 
the profs and instructors will not 
care to give up their laurels. This 
is purely a Maggie Murph affair and 
it belongs to the Margaret Morrison 
School as the Arts Ball belong to 
Arts School and the Science Stag be­
longs to Science.
The scene is Rec Hall and the hour 
is 4:30. Let every Maggie Murph 
and all her profs be there.
The best ever! That was the un­
animous verdict of all who attended 
the Science Stag last Saturday night 
in the Carnegie Union. S'oothing 
music, popular movies, stunts that 
have never been equaled, speakers 
who entered into the spirit of the 
party, and refreshments heavy with 
Calories and Vitamines made every 
minute humorous, pleasing and satis­
fying.
In literature the poem runs “The 
Stag at eve had drunk his fill.’’ but 
the Carnegie version is “The Science 
Stag on Saturday eve did me with 
pleasure fill”. Educating, humorous, 
and original stunts, speakers who 
grasped the spirit of the party, mov­
ies of school activities, and vita- 
mines and calories in Commons style 
made the Stag of ’25 a memorable 
one.
The Junior class won the trophy 
For the best stunt with a burlesque 
of assemblies and chapel entitled 
"Ambiguous Ambiguities.” Members 
of the faculty and of the various col­
leges were reproduced according to 
a student’s version, and since some 
of the judges were shown in their 
lighter moments, the verdict must 
have been a fair one This is the 
second time that the Class of ’26 has 
won the. prize, their first victory be­
ing scored two years- ago.
• "The Man on the Job,” the faculty 
offering was a skit on a graduate 
getting a job, clever and entertain­
ing. it contained a gem of advice. A 
vaudeville version called “A Night in 
the Carnegie Inn,” starring Al Min- 
ptl.i and his “Tale of Woe” was pro­
duced by the Seniors.
Bob Wadell gave a short talk 
which was delivered and received 
with the Carnegie spirit about which 
he spoke. He told of a recent visit 
to Wally Steffen, and of the football 
team of last and noxt year. Profes­
sor Trinlts gave a lively recital of 
thoughtful and serious stories, limit­
ing himself to material from the 
Ladies’ Home Journal.
The younger classes, in an effort 
to show the advantages of higher 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The Right Reverend Alexander 
Mann, Episcopal Bishop of the dio­
cese of Pittsburgh, will address the 
students at chapel exercises next 
Thursday. Bishop Mann is well 
known in all districts surrounding 
Pittsburgh and especially well known 
in Pittsburgh. This is an excellent 
opportunity to hear Bishop Mann 
speak and the students will no doubt 
take advantage of it. William Dell 
has been appointed organist. No 
soloist has been selected yet.
JHOME CONCERT AND 
DANCE TO BE HELD
Tickets For Annual Musical 
Clubs Performance on Sale 
in ‘Y‘ Office
PUBLIC MAY ATTEND
Plebes Winning Most Ap­
plause at Assemblies to Re­
ceive Exemption Cards
M: M. PLEBES WILL 
HOLDANNUALPARTY
Dance For Upperclassmen 
Will be Held in Union 
This Saturday 
SR. BALL DECORATIONS
Saturday, March the twenty-first, 
the Margaret Morrison Plebes will be 
hostesses to the members of the M. 
M. Sophomore, Junior and Senior 
classes at a dance in tho Union. The 
Collegiate Imps have been engaged 
to furnish the music. A special fea­
ture of the dance is that all the de­
corations of the Senior Ball will be 
used by arrangement between the 
two committees.
The committee has announced 
that this dance is to be a purely M. 
M. affair and that no girl will be ad­
mitted without her registration card. 
This announcement is made in or­
der that there may be no misuunder- 
standing, since tho dance is being, 
held on a Saturday night.
The committee for the ' dance is 
composed of Ruth Bower, social 
chairman; Betty Noll, Betty Burk- 
house, Emma Hawke, and Lucille 
Galmish. Jean Roy. president of the 
Freshman class, the sponsors of the 
four classes, Miss Brown, and Miss 
Breed, have been invited to chaper­
one the dance.
j On Friday evening. March 27, the 
combined musical c! ibs will reach 
the culmination of ¡Their successes 
J thus far this year ih ¡a two hour per- 
I formance at the Carnegie Music Hall.
The pric> of tickets will be $1.25 for 
I the orchestra and the first three rows 
j in the balcony, one dollar for the 
I first balcony, and 75 t ents for the 
| second balcony. The public is in- 
I vited to attend this home concert. 
! and studen:s who wish to obtain good 
i seats are urged to .purchase tickets
I at their earliest possible conven­
ience.
Reserved seats may be obtained j at the Y. M. C. A. O/Hce in the Cen­
tral Building and at. Mellor’s Musi-; 
Store, Atlantic 3510.
This Concert will include perform­
ances by both the men’s and wom­
en’s musical clubs. There will be 
numbers by the men’s and women’s 
glee clubs, under the direction of Al 
Johnson, as weh as the Margaret 
Morrison Stringers and the Instru­
mental Stringer.?' Club, directed by 
Steve Kovach. The Kiltie Quartet 
and the Collegiate Imp:« too, will 
have their share in the performance
One of the special features will be 
a Russian dance by Warren Kimball. 
Warren's Indian daijqo has been a 
novel attraction in 5he various per- 
(Continued on Page Two.
UNION PROVES POPULAR 
FOR GENERAL ASSEMBLY
The first General Assembly to be 
held in the Union occurred last Tues­
day, and was unanimously pronounc­
ed a success by all who attended, the 
Union being crowded to its fullest 
capacity.
A number of popular songs were 
flashed on the screen as a starter, 
and the gusto with which these were 
sung showed that they were highly 
approved of by the students.
Brigadier General Lord Thom­
son, Secretary of State for Air In 
Ramsey McDonald’s Labor Cabinet, 
was the speaker of the day. He de­
livered aa extremely interesting dis­
cussion on aviation and its wonder­
ful possibilities in the future.
The Carnegie Song Prize was 
awarded to two Freshmen girls, Miss 
Ernestine Stoll, who composed the 
music, and Miss Dorothy Dickey, who 
wrote the words. These two young 
ladies were congratulated for their 
meritorious song, which was then 
sung before the students by Al Nern, 
a Sophmore in the Music Depart­
ment.
Three amendments to the Consti­
tution of the Student Council were 
brought before the student body for 
their approval. All were accepted.
Al Johnson and his celebrated Car­
negie Glee Club rendered two novel 
and attractive numbers, "Swing 
Along,” and “That's a Lot of Bunk,” 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Night Electricals 
Donate to Infirmary
Annual Smoker Proceeds to 
Go to Sick Building Fund
HANDBOOK COMMITTEE ASKS
ASSISTANCE OF PLEBES
The committee in charge of the 
publication of the Carnegie Hand­
book for next fall request sugges­
tions for improving the book from 
members of the fresman class. The 
committee feel that the plebes are the 
persons to whom the book is of tho 
greatest use, and it is they who are 
most likely to have thought of ways 
in which the Plebe Bible can be 
made more serviceable. It is hoped 
that the first year men will come 
through with any suggestions that 
may help the newcomer on the cam­
pus next year. Communications 
should be addressed to V. B. Smith, 
care of Carnegie Tartan, C. I. T. 
Post Office.
The new Infirmnry fund was given 
a slendid start last Friday evening, 
when night students of the Electrical 
Equipment and construction Depart­
ment of Industries School, at their 
annual smoker; contributed $100. 
This is the first donation made to 
this fund by any group or class of 
students.
About seventy-five night students 
of this large department assembled 
for their only social gathering of the 
year, and an interesting program of 
speeches, music, and stunts, was giv­
en. The speakers included Director 
Morris, Professor Dunnells, Mr. 
PfoutS and Mr. H. L. Lee. Each man 
spoke, either in reference to the sup 
port of the Infirmary or to.the boost­
ing of Carnegie to young men who 
might be considering going to col­
lege.
Stuhts and music were provided by 
"Socks” Price, a night school stu­
dent and by Herb Polesie and Co., 
the "Co.” being Verne Halden, pian­
ist, and Merril Hoilinshead at 'the 
violin. Mr. Polesie conducted an old 
time song fest, into which everyone 
entered with much spirit.
Theta Xi Host of Faculty 
At Smoker Next Tuesday
The second annual smoker for 
members will be held next Tuesday 
evening, March 24, at the Theta Xi 
house. The event is planned as a 
get-together gathering of all faculty 
men as guest3 of the fraternity, to 
encourage more rocial contact among 
teachers and students outside of the 
classroom.
No elaborate entertainment is be­
ing planned, and the smoker will 
break up at an early hour. All mem­
bers of the faculty and administra­
tion are invited to attend. The only 
limitation is that they must not bring 
their professional manners along 
with them.
The Theta Xi house is at 5017 
Forbes street, and the members will 
be prepared to receive their learned 
guests any time after 8 o’clock. In­
structors having night classes are 
urged to drop in between or after 
classes. Those who for any reason 
cannot stay are perfectly free to 
come and go as they like.
DRAMATS WILL OPEN AN 
EGYPTIAN PLAY FRIDAY
Friday will be the opening day for 
the new and elaborate play Avhich 
the Dramatic Department has been 
workin on lately. Tho play is called 
"The High Gods” and was written by 
Eugene Brieux; it is being produced 
by Professor Wallace.
"The High Gods” in the first rpal 
play which has been done by the de­
partment this yoar. It has been 
played only on a very fow occasions 
in this country and never before has 
it been played professionally.
The play is based on the life and 
customs of the people in ancient 
Egypt, hence it requires a reat deal 
of research and study to obtain the 
necessary information about the vari­
ous customs and ceremonies which 
the play involves.
The play deals with • an ancient 
Egyptian religion in which the peo­
ple worshipped the, goddess Isis. 
Once ea-3h year the goddes was un­
veiled and the people were allowed 
to see her. The image was supposed 
to bend her head, the bending of 
which w'orked all kinds of miraculous 
cures.
At this time of the unveiling of the 
goddess a maiden was chosen by the 
priest to be sacrificed on 'the Nile. 
This sacrifice was given to insure its 
rise and overflow.
The cast will include about 50 stu­
dents. This will be one of the most 
elaborate plays to be presented in 
the Little Theater this year. Exten­
sive _ preparations are being made for 
the play. Many new customs and 
Stage settings have been purchased 
by the department especially for this 
production.
The play will be presented at 8:15 
p. m. on each of the following days: 
Friday. March 20; Saturday, Mon­
day, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thurs­
day.
EASTER TRIP FOR KILTIE
BAND IS INNOVATION
Preparednes seems to be the 
watch-word of the Kiltie Band for they 
are all prepared to make their monu­
mental trip to the east.
Within the last few years, the 
popularity of the band has increased 
by leaps and bounds. The quality 
and harmony of its music has im­
proved to such extent that ail parts 
of the country have been clamoring 
to heat it. Put vlnr.o it can­
not make a national tour, Dave Gor- 
bor, the manager, has arranged a 
concert tour for Easter week which 
will include the cities of Johnstown, 
Harrisburg, Philadelphia, Jersey City 
and Now York. Plans aro being 
made to have a special Pullman side­
tracked .each night at these cities. 
Novelty numbers have ben arranged 
which will prove a delight to the au­
diences who will hear them.
This is the first trip of its kind 
that has ever been attempted, and it 
is certain that the precedent that 
manager Gorber is setting will be 
the inspiration of many such excur­
sions in the future.
Now that it has been definitely de­
cided that the plebes will parade on 
All Fools Day, pains are being taken 
to make this event the most-success­
ful of its kind ever held at Carnegie. 
To this end, explicit instructions 
have been issued to the members of 
the Four School Committee, tho as­
sembly chairman, and the judges, in 
order that there will be no delay in 
the start of the assemblies or in the 
start of the parade.
The members of the Four School 
Committee, who will act as final au­
thority on all questions arising, are 
required as well to arouse the inter 
est of the plebes iu tho affair, to pro­
vide and issue the exemption cards, 
to act as a censorship committee, to 
keep records of the plobos absent 
and present, and to give tho parade 
marshals their orders. Similar ex­
plicit instructions have been issued 
to the assembly chairmen, judges 
and parade marshals, and with such 
careful preparation, they should work 
together with clock-like procision
Those plebes who wore wise on- 
ough to attend the Science Stag are 
no doubt nurturing budding idons 
concerning their costumos and make­
up for the celebrated day, 011 which 
by dent of inventive genius, they' 
may free themselves from tho bonds 
and slmcklCB of their apprenticeship 
and be welcomed and acclaimed as 
Carnegie students in every sonse of 
the wTorld. Is not the glory and the 
reward worth the elTort?
The following is a complete list of 
the Four School Committee and tho 
Divisional Comrnittoe:
GENERAL FOUR SCHOOL COM­
MITTEE—
A. S. Andrews, chairman.
F. Di Rossini, publicity.
Josephine Day, secretary.
D. V. Beede, Industries.
A. E. Krogh, Scionco.
EBtollo Garibaldi, Margaret Morri 
son.
(Continued 011 Pago Four.)
There will be a tea dance in ?!* 
the Union next Wednesday nit- * 
ernoon at. four-thirty. The ad- •!* 
mission will be twenty-ilVo cents *
¦ for men, as usual. Girls and *!• 
1 children in arms will be admit-
1 ted free.
Il y aura une dansant sans *2* 
1 the dans l’Union vendredi pro- -î*
¦ chaine a quatre heures trent. La ?’.* 
1 prix d’ admittance sera vingt- * 
1 cinq centimes. Les femmes et *!* 
1 les enfants dans les bras ne v
¦ payeront pas. *
j •> Eiin Tea Tanz wird in dem 
•i* Union next Mittwog um half-past 
-> vier gehalten werdan. Two bits * 
wird gecharged werden für ad- v 
•!* mission. Fraus free. •£•
h;_.........
¡SARG GIVES OPINION 
IN BEAUTY CONTEST
STAID SENIORS 
TO TRIP ABOUT 
PARADISE ISLE
Exquisite Rather Than Elab­
orate Effects to Feature 
Senior Ball
ASSESSMENT 
IS SET AT $3.50 
Swaying Couples Will Yield 
to Exotic Strains of Col­
legiate Imps
Judgment of Williams and 
Fisher to Come Before 
Final Selection
TO FILM WINNERS
Budget Organizations 
Must Call For Letter
At Post Office and Prepare 
Reply For Council
In an attempt to get moro data 
on the non-budget organizations on 
the Campus, the Budget Committee 
has sent letters to the various clubs 
and societies, asking for information 
concerning each group’s officers, its 
members and its activities. Because 
of the Committee’s insufficient know­
ledge of the non-budget organiza­
tions, the letters, instead of being ad­
dressed to the officers of the so­
cieties, have been filed at the Post 
Office, where they may be obtained 
by representatives of the organiza­
tion.
If the societies wish to continue to 
be recognized, they must answer 
these questionnaires before April 
first.
The organizations for which let­
ters await are:
Inter-Sorority Council.
Inter-Fraternity Council.
Inter-Fraternity Basket Ball Lea­
gue.
M. M. Guild.
"C” Club.
Citmas Club.
Cosmopolitan Club.
Non-Degree Association.
Rifle Club.
Technon Club.
Disabled War Veterans.
Sine Nomine.
Mid-West Club.
Scalp and Blade.
(Continued on Page Fourl
Carnegie's official beauty contost 
is approaching a climax. Tony Sarg, 
noted illustrator has alroady sent in 
his selection of the six most beauti­
ful girls at. Carnogie, but all offorts 
to learn the results of his selection 
from Kline Fulmer, who has chargo 
of the contest, have been in vain.
The photographs of tho contes­
tants are now in tho hands of tho 
other two Judges, Harrison Flshor, 
wh'o paints the covers for Cosmopoli­
tan and othor magazines, and Char­
les D. Williams, whose illustrations 
appear on the Saturday Evening 
Post, and who has boon a prominont 
judge at the Atlantic. City Boauty 
Contest for th* past two years.
Only senior girls are eligible, thus 
doing away with tho possibility of a 
girl winning the contest two or moro 
yeors.
In order to simplify matters for 
tho Judges, a commit too composed of 
Messrs. Astye and Sullivan, of tho 
faculty of Fin-* Arts College, and Kllno 
Fulmer, held a preliminary Judge­
ment, and from over a hundred pho­
tographs of Carnogio's bonnle las­
sies selected tho twenty-live most
striking beauties. It. Is from those
twenty-live photographs that the 
judges will ultimately select the six 
winners.
Tin* silver loving cup to bo award­
ed the winner Is now on display In 
Doan Brown’s office. On II. Is to be 
engraved the name of the winner of 
each year and It. la to be kept in tho
now girls’ club room at tho gym­
nasium.
When the results of tho contost 
have been adjusted thoV will be an­
nounced at general assembly and 
moving pictures of tho winners will 
be takon.
The Senior Ball Committee has 
| been working night and day for the 
past two weeks trying to find some­
thing that would make the ball a suc­
cess. The solution has been found- 
Paradlse Isle has been transplanted! 
from the Pacific Ocean to the Union, 
and the famous Collegiate Imps hav® 
learnod the mystic and romantic Ian-' 
gunge of the "Garden Spot of the 
World” so they can toll the dancing 
couples all about it. in the native 
way. It will be something out of the 
usual run of the formal dances given 
for Carnegie students, for thoro has 
been a tendency to go ot'f the Cam­
pus heretofore, but the seniors are 
going to provo that such is tho un­
necessary proceeding.
The day the tickets wrent on sale 
a report was asked; and In tho after­
noon, the ostlmato was high enough 
to cause tho Committee to throw of! 
their possimistic looks, and to feet 
quite at ease about tho dance. The 
class is going to turn out 100 per 
cent, and support the dance, If the 
ticket sale continues as It started.
The usual extensive advertising 
campaign has boon'absent from the- 
boards for this danco. Tho affair 
Is strictly for Soniors, and they know 
all about It. With the prlco at $3.r>0 
per couplo It Is estimated that there 
will ho a minimum of 100 couplos at 
thto danco, so tho Committee feela 
that they will run just a little short 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Interfrat Formal 
Decided Success
Californians Fill Hall With 
Exhilirating Music
SHILLING PRIZE WINNER 
TO APPFAR MARCH 30
The stories submitted In tho 
Shilling Short Story Contest are now 
In the hands of the judgos, while 
lha contestants eagerly await the an­
nouncement of tho prlze-w'innlng 
story.
They will not have so very long to 
wait however, for tho chosen story 
will, it is expected, make its ap- 
peranee in the next number of the 
Shilling, so that all Carnegie may 
read and marvel at it
The third issue of the ‘Shilling for 
this year will make its appearance 
on March 30, and will be on sale all 
over the campus. Everyone wdll want 
a copy of tins number. The prize 
story will, of course, be the chief at­
traction, but in addition to this there 
will be an even greater display of 
Carnegie talent than is usual. Grace 
Glennon has designed a very inter­
esting cover for this issue, and a 
number of well known people have 
written poems for it. Besids these, 
there are essays by Vina Kahle and 
Sidney Giffen, and a number of other 
equally interesting features. And all 
this for the small sum of twenty- 
five cents. No wonder everyone is 
going to buy a Shilling on March 30.
Dept, of Fine Printing Rapidly
Gaining Worldwide Recognition
Mr, Garnett came to CarnegiePorter Gcirnett, Director oi | three yearn ago from San Francisco 
Laboratory Press, Has 
Charge of Press
The Laboratory Pros«, an tho 
workshop of tho Fine Printing De­
partment is called, Is little known 
about the school. But through tho 
specimens that Its students have 
produced, Tho Press has become 
known throughout the United States 
and abroad. Tho Laboratory Press, 
separate from the Department of 
Printing, headed by Mr. Porter Gar­
nett, produces specimens of printing 
done with exacting care and accord­
ing to the best traditions of the 
craft.
and started tho Laboratory Press, 
which Is now famous among tho fin­
er printer« of tho country and which 
has tho distinction of being tho only 
private press in existence founded 
for the solo purpose of oducatlon. 
Rocently tho Now York Herald Tri­
bune published an editorial concern­
ing tho Laboratory Press, Mr. Gar­
nett, and tho work of both. Tho edi­
torial follows;
Orchldn From Pittsburgh 
"They used to say of Porter Gar­
nett In San Francisco that ho had 
the highest brow It was possible to 
have without boring people. It is a 
rare and delicate art. A fraction of 
a ahado less and Mr. Garnett would 
not have been what he was: a shade 
(Continued on Page Four)
Last Friday evening, the Motel 
Schenley was tho scono of a decided­
ly successful Intorfratornlty Formal 
Ball. A gay crowd of over two bun- 
drod oouploH glided over the smooth 
floor of the ballroom to tho oxhllOr- 
atlng tunes of tho “Californians," and 
filled tho luill with sounds of merri­
ment and llght-hoartedness.
Colorful pennants and flags of the 
frnl.ornltlos on tho campus adorned 
tho walls of tho ballroom, and tho 
effect was very good. The program« 
had very beautiful shale blue cellu­
loid covers, with the Carnogle seal 
done In gold. All tho girls have al 
ready given them honored plueos in 
their ovorllowlng collections of such 
cherished possessions.
Tho "Californians" syncopated the 
vory latest In popular music, l.o the 
delight of tho critical Greeks. Their 
rhythm was excellent, and Russ Mor­
gan on the trombone, and Ed Gill)- 
gan with his violin, were very finish­
ed performers. A little too much 
brass SEN used, and no so soft effects 
could be used because of tho neces­
sity of having the melodies carry in­
to the front addition of tho ballroom. 
A little entertainment was given by 
tho orchestra during the evening, and 
a ventriloquist stunt was particular­
ly good.
The mid-night supper was excel* 
lent.. Chicken croquettes, creamed 
peas, ico cream, and small cakes, 
were all served in faultless style. Tbe 
dining room of the Schenley lends it­
self admirably to such affairs, and 
always leaves a satisfied feeling.
The guests and chaperons at the 
Ball were Doctor Thomas S. Baker, 
Mr. Glendinnin Keeble, Miss Mary 
Louise Brown, Mr. and Mrs. W. ft.
(Continued on Page Three)
High Tenors Asked to 
Enroll Bach Chorus Moa
High tenors who can sing gooft 
clear "A’s” are earnestly sought to 
sing In tho Bach Chorus, under the 
personal direction of J, Vlclc O'Brien, 
head of the department of music.
'J’his singing organization ban had 
a phenomenal growth. Started at 
tho beginning of tho yoar by Jean 
Dagg S'oaman, tho teacher of voice, 
It has grown to an all school affair. 
Tho faculty Is also represented by 
Professor C|eoghogun, of tho College 
of Fine Arts; Professor Dennison of 
tho Science school, and Doan Day.
Th-i first work of the chorus "God’s 
Own Time”, was given in the Little 
Theater some time ago, and tho per­
formance was so convincing that tho 
organization was takon ovor by tho 
school and put on a firmer basis. An­
other performance of the samo can­
tata was recently given at the Third 
United Presbyterian, on Carnegie 
Tech night.
"A Stronghold Sure”, another can- 
(Continucd on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1925
Published every week by undergraduates of tho Carnegie Institut» of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FEED C. SMITH.....................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
r. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGH E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. Sltzler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS..................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WI NNING .........................................................................................Schon ley 9070
V. B. SMITH.............. ..........................................................................Franklin r.547-.l
ALUMNI ÉDITOR
J. M. GOSS.................................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper, M. Hoilinshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadgo, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. Ross, II. L, Myors, L, V. Twohlg, F. Finn,
F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. Wlngold, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Klm-
mel, It. M. Pew, F. O. Woods.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF .......................................................................................Schenley 9280
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Tfiv- 
v id son, B. Krlstof, J. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON..........................................................................................Schenley 9211
N. C. WESER, AsHistanf.........................................................................Schenley 9122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE H. CARL..............................................................................Schenley 0393-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER
P. MOSKOVITZ ........................................................................................Hazel 2B73-M
BUSINE8S ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bäuerle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, B. Supowltz, L. SachB, H. Kandoll, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Moore, lt. L. Grlbble, Gladys Reynolds W. A. Bernardi.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcoinen all communications of wtudent Intercut, If signed.
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All news Items must be in the atddent
pout oOlco beforo 4:30 Thurnday.
Tartan Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Oillce hours—Dally 12:30- 
1:20.
FRATERNITY MEETINGS
There has always been u great deal of annoying conflict between 
fraternity meetings and student activities. Only too often is some 
.student kept away from his fraternity meeting by some activity at 
which he must be present, and vice versa. Now, for any fraternity 
to get t he fullest benefit from its meetings, it is.necessary that all the 
members be present, and for this reason the meeting should be para­
mount in the consideration of the student. But, on. the other, hand, 
the activities will suffer. Take, for instance, the holding of the meet­
ing on Sunday afternoons.
Tho following activities lake up the student’s linic on .Sunday 
afternoon: tho Band, the Glee Club, the Musical Clubs, and the Tar­
tan. In addition, many special committee meetings' are held which 
make attendance almost imperative.
If an agreement were made with all the fraternities by which 
they all hold their meetings on the same night, a lot of confusion 
and conflict would be prevented. All activities could be so arranged 
that there would be no meetings or anything else on that night, and 
consequently the men would have the time for their meetings, and 
they would liavo a better Chance to devote their time to it.
This arrangement is followed in many colleges- that is, all the 
fraternities meet on the same night. Here at Carnegie most of the 
meetings aro held Monday night. There arc thirteen fraternities who 
meet Monday night, three meet Sunday afternoon, two meet Sunday 
evening, and one Sunday morning. How much more advantageous 
it would be i I! all lhe fraternities mot Monday. Nothing else would 
bo scheduled for that night, and the fraternities would bo assured ol! 
full attendenco.
We are not trying to dictate to any I'ratornity what it should do, 
or to meddle in its business. This is merely a suggestioi'i l!or better 
co-operation among the various fraternities which would result in 
their mutual bone/it.
THE ELECTRICALS
The students ol' the Klectrieal .’ISquipment nnd Construction De­
partment ol’ Industries Night School deserve a vote ol’ thank« for 
1 heir contribution ol! one hundred dollars to go toward the building 
ol! an inlirmary al; Carnegie Tool). Tho fact that they were altruistic 
enough to contribute what was essentially a depart mental fund to­
ward a project which is to be built I'or the, benefit ol' the whole school 
shows a.n absence ol’ school ,jealousy which has been, on one or two I 
occasions, disagreeably evident on the part ol! other departments.
TJie Week 
in the 
World’s News
By Leslie P. Beebe
1. The Scnatc’c Vote on Warren.
2. Demotion of the La Follette
Group.
Not since 1808, sixty years ago, 
when tho nomination of Henry Stans­
berry of Ohio for Attorney General 
wan rejected, had a Senate failed to 
ratify a nomination for tho cabinet 
by tho President, until thin week 
when the Senate rojected the name 
of 01ms, B. Warren, of Michigan, for 
tho same poat as Stansberry’s, by 
a vote of, 40-40. Couzena lead the at­
tack with the Btatemont that, “We 
do not believe Mr. Warren would 
make a good Attorney General. We 
do not believe he would elicit public 
confidence and if one thing is neces­
sary, It is that confidence."
This raises the question as to tho 
exact place of the cabinet and - more 
than that.—whoso cabinet it is? 
Shall it bo tho PreHident’s own 
choHon advisors or is It a cabinet 
presented to him by the peoplo and 
chosen by them through their repre­
sentative, tho Senate. Surely the 
original conception SEI a cabinet, “by 
and •with tho consent of the Senate,” 
but at the preHent time and under 
present conditions the President 
should have his own advisors. He 
has a right to that much, advice by 
men of his own way of thinking if 
he so chooses, to help him in his 
policies and his programs, the peo­
ple holding their check jn the House 
and in the Senate.
As we go to press Mr. Coolidge 
has sent tho name of Mr. Warren in 
to be acted upon by the Senate again 
and the chances aro that the Repub­
lican party wil organize enough to 
put him through. This, however, 
still leaves the question of whose 
cabinet It Is in the air.
THE SCIENCE STAG
Again we aro forced to feel that 
tho Republican majority action in 
demoting tho radical 'Senators from 
all committee positions, a very grave 
mistako, one that is a serious blow 
to one of tho things wo have so boast­
ed of in our democracy, “a govern­
ment of the people, for the people 
and by the people." The completo 
committee slate was sent through 
leaving the entire LaFolletto group, 
Ladd, Brookhardt, Frazier, and La- 
Follette entirely out of it. The 
Democrats kept, out of it, feeling that 
it was quite a party matter for the 
Republicans to settle.
Mr. Borah onco again shows him­
self to be tho very cloar thinker, 
when ho loads tho assault on tho ma­
jority. From a purely political point 
of view, says Mr. Borah, It Is a very 
grave mistake for the party to take 
this action, for it Is none too strong 
in that area now. The last election 
was a Coolidgo victory and not a RO' 
publican ono as commonly supposed, 
which moans that tho party must 
watch Unit; area. Senator Norris 
protests the action as unfair and un­
just. and ralsos tho vory pertinent 
question ns to Just who is authorized 
to say what eonst.itut.es Republican ism;
Regardless of Its being a question 
of either party or polities, tho mat 
tor becomes just an unfair deal to 
the people who sent these roproson- 
tfttlvos to tho Senate. Tho four mon 
were oloctod to tho Republican party 
by their respective constituencies to 
represent, (hem and as such have the 
right lo bo rospocted regardless of 
any opinion they may have. Under 
tho prosont: committee system of 
running the government, tho repre­
sentatives who are not. on tho com­
mittee slate really do not have a 
voice for tho people they represent. 
The Republican party has stagnated 
most assuredly If It cannot stand n 
difference of opinion within its 
ranks.
Lord Thomson Makes Startling Prophecies
Concerning Next War in Assembly Address
In a trong plea for tho encourage­
ment and development of commer­
cial aviation Brigadier General 
Lord Thomson declared “a com­
mercial air service Is the backbone 
of a military aviation,” when 
speaking at General Assembly last 
Tuesday.
With his experience both as a 
soldier of numerous wars and as 
the officer in charge of air forces 
in the first British Labor cabinet, 
Ivord Thomson took a vigorous 
stand for fully developed air forces 
In England and America. He viv­
idly pointed out the danger to 
which the peoplo of the United 
States are subjecting themselves 
by neglecting to develop a power­
ful aviation force, ns a necessary 
means of defense against enemy 
attacks upon civilian centers.
Future wars. Lord Thomson pre­
dicted, will bo won by those na­
tions that are supremo in air­
craft forces. "In all probability 
tho next war will begin on the day 
it is declared. The object of both 
belligerent states will be to strike 
at important centers in the enemy 
territory, with a view, first, of 
striking terror Into the hearts of 
the inhabitants and causing panic, 
and second, of destroying adminis­
trative officers, dockyards, railway 
stations, railways, and other means 
of communication.
"Tho bombing squadrons will be 
accompanied bv fighting machines 
whose task will be to protect them 
from attack by the enemy’s defend­
ing air forces: as a consequence 
there will probably take place ae­
rial battles on whose result the 
course • of future operations will 
depend. This aerial warfare will 
continue until one or other of the 
nposing air forces has gained su­
premacy. When this stage has 
been reached, either tho side which 
has lost supremacy will admit de­
feat, since its towns, dockyards,
etc., will be completely at the 
lercy of the enemy’s air squadron 
and the movement of its fleet and 
army will thereby be paralyzed; or 
it will make desperate efforts to 
restore the situation.
".Whether this latter course will 
b/> possible or not will depend 
largely on the extent and efficiency 
of the aircraft industry in the state 
concerned. In warfare of this kind 
victory may be gained without the 
tise of either fleets or land forces, 
but simply by the ruthless employ­
ment of air power to break the 
spirit of the population, paralyze 
the movement of its fleet by bomb­
ing dockyards, and prevent the 
concentration of its army through 
the destruction of its railway cen­
ters.
"A distinguishing feature of this 
form of warfare should be noticed 
—the attack is made on the civil­
ian population and property, it in­
volves almost limitless destruction 
and leaves the professional soldier 
and sailor with very little to do, 
at any rate in the early stages. 
This fact should be widely known 
and its implications fully realized 
in civilized countries, because 
once their populations appreciate 
what future war may mean they 
will be more and more reluctant to 
regard It as a desirable or prac­
tical solution or question in dis­
pute.”
In stressing the importance of 
commercial aviation from the point 
of view of a military air force, he 
said, "No matter how costly and 
efficient a centralized military air 
force may be, it should have as a 
great national reserve a highly 
developed commercial air service. 
In the past history of Britain the 
mercantile marine has been invalu­
able to the British fleet; now a 
commercial air service is required 
to maintain'Britain’s position. The 
British have been able to achieve
something in this world by means 
of sea power and because the peo­
ple had the habit of the sea; it is 
my firm conviction that they will 
lose their present position as a 
great power unless they acquire 
the habit of the air. This is equal­
ly the case in regard to America. 
Indeed, any country which neg­
lects this most modern form of lo­
comotion will be left behind in the 
march of progress.
"I think most business people 
will agree that commercial, politi­
cal and social progress depend on 
speed of communication and per­
sonal discussion. These require­
ments are not sufficiently met on an 
international scale by either rail­
ways or steamships. We have 
reached the limit of speed by both 
these means of transport. Trains 
help us only after great oceans 
have been spanned; but on land 
and sea there is a demand for in­
creased speed in the transportation 
of passengers and mails, which 
cannot be provided by existing 
transportation facilities. The air 
now offers a means of satisfying 
the growing demand for rapidity of 
travel.
"In a country of such small size 
as England, aviation has not a 
great opportunity; in fact, the 
aviator can only hop; but in a con­
tinent like America he can spread 
his wings. This. is a land of op­
portunity and in aviation and its 
development the American people 
have one of their greatest oppor­
tunities. Already airmen have 
done wonders. The air mail from 
New York to San Francisco is one 
of the great achievements of the 
age we live in and reflects the 
greatest credit on the pilots and 
all concerned. But a great deal 
remains to be done, in America as 
elsewhere, for the proper encour­
agement and development of com­
mercial aviation.”
ARTS PLAYSPITTSBURGH PLAY HOUSES
The Science Stag is getting to be a better function every yoar. 
This year’s stag was a distinct improvement over those ol! the pre­
ceding years, and the committee in charge deserves commendation. 
The Science School, however, has not yet reached the stage where it 
regards the stag with the same degree ol’ enthusiasm as the Arts 
School does the ball, and until that time, the stag will not reach its 
fullest development.
This party is the only distinctly Science School function, and as 
such should be limited strictly to the students of that College. With 
this in mind, they should try to make it an affair which no engineer 
will miss. The fact that some students, do not attend shows that 
there is still something lacking in its development.
As a suggestion it might be a good idea to obtain the money for 
expenses from class dues, as is done in the College of Fine Arts for 
the ball, instead of from the sale of tickets. If the boys know that 
they are paying for the stag when they pay their class dues, there 
wili be more of the feeling that every man is responsible for the suc­
cess'of the evening. ________________
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, MARCH 17
Davrow (Lecture............................................................8:30 P. M.} UnionWEDNESDAY, MARCH 18
Dnrrow Lccturc............................................................8:30 P. M., Union
THURSDAY, MARCH .1.9Chapel .............12:50 P. M., Little Then lev
FRIDAY, MARCH 'JO
“The High Gods”...................................8:30 P. M„ l.iltlo Theater
Senior Ball...................................................................M., Union
SATURDAY', MARCH U1
¦‘The High Gods”...................................8:30 P. M'., l.illle Theater
M. M. Plebe Dance.......................................................9:00 V. 11'., Union
MONDAY, M AIM'11 23
“The High Gods”...................................8:30 P. M„ l.illle Theater
TUESDAY, MAKC11 24
“The High Gods”...................................8:30 Pi M., Littlo Theater
WEDNESDAY", MARCH 25
“The High Gods”...................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, MARCH 26
Chapel ..................12:50 P. II., Little Theater
FRIDAY", MARCH 27
Musical Clubs’ Home Concert...........................S:30 P. M., Music Hall
Dance ..................................10:00 P. M., Schcnley Hotel
SATURDAY, MARCH 2S
Industries’ Smoker.......................................................7:30 P. M., Union
SUNDAY, MARCH 29
Music Recital.............. ...................................S :30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY", MARCH 31
ALL POOLS’ DAY.
HOME CONCERT AND
DANCE TO BE HELD
(Continued From Pago One.) 
formances of the musical clubs, and 
this unique Russian dance promises 
to rival his past successes.
Of course, no Carnegie perform­
ance would be complete without a 
few selections by our talented Obie 
Newma#, and the home concert will 
not be lacking in this respect.
The concert \\rill be over by ten 
o’clock, and the music lovers may 
then amble over to the Hotel Schen­
ley ballroom and make a perfect 
finish to the evening.
Music for this dance will be fur­
nished by no others than the far- 
famed Collegiate Imps, and every­
thing points toward a good party. 
Dancing will begin at ten and con­
tinue until two. The assessment has 
been set at two-fifty, and tickets may 
be obtained in the Y. M. C. A. Office.
MORTAR BOARD WILL HOLD
BRIDGE AT KAUFMANN’S SAT.
Tickets aro now on sale for the 
annual bridge given by Mortar Board. 
It will be hold in Kaufmann’s dining 
room, on Saturday aftornoon, March 
21, 1925, at 2:30 p. m. Tickots aro 
now on snlo for ono dollar. Arrange­
ments liavo been made to use Kauf­
mann’s dining room, as no other 
placo near tho Campus was judged 
largo enough for tho oxpootod crowd.
It is also thought that tho down­
town location will bo moro conven­
ient; for a great many of tho alumni, 
who will no doubt wish to attend 
this bridge.
'Phis has always been a most success­
ful and enjoyable event among tho 
spring festivities, and this year’s is 
not oxpootod to prove an exception.
This is a splendid opportunity for 
all Carnegie women, students and 
alumni, to get together and have an 
enjoyable afternoon. Write to Miss 
Helen Gillespie, Margaret Morrison 
College, for your tickets.
No secrets are being divulged as to 
pri7.es. One has to attend the party 
to find out about them.
Two studies in gentle realism, and 
two adventure ynrns, but. as the ad­
ventures in spite of good acting were 
deadly dull until one vivid curtain, 
the effect was of a rather too sombre 
bill. Neighbors, acted with humor, 
was good for several real laughs. 
Claire Schellhase, regular and . em­
phatic, Donald Maryo, endearingly 
gawky, and Maiy Power voluble over 
a buffalo bug in the parlor carpet, 
were enough to save an even so triv­
ial a play as "Neighbors.” "Where 
Love Is, There God Is Also” was a 
difficult play thoughtfully done. As 
someone has observed, tho Russians 
are interested in each other on the 
stage without requiring any particu­
lar action. But *we aro not. Impor 
tant names are attached to this lit­
tle scone in a Russian cellar; Tols­
toy wrote tho original story, and Mr, 
Payno felt it sufficiently dramatic to 
adapt it and produce it. Tho acting 
was intelligent and appreciative. But 
the audience was interested rather 
than moved. The Russian genius 
seoms not. so well ablo to vivify this 
theme as the Irish; compare tho 
"Travelling Man” by Lady Gregory.
Wo hoped for something moro en 
livening from tho burled treasure. 
But Brains was miserably dull, In 
spite of brilliant acting Bob Alder- 
dlce Avas a very convincing Scots­
man, llardlo Albright was absolutely 
delightful as the Captain, and Ells­
worth Perrin played with even moro 
than his usual (lair for comic real- 
Ism. Even the coolies wore good. 
But, their vehicle was hopeless; a 
steal from tho first, act of Gold, and 
not a. good steal at that.
Whon the curtain went up on "The 
Death Watch,” a melodrama, wo 
gave our literary consciences a va­
cation and hoped to be amused. The 
convincingly drunken officers were 
promising; excellent make-ups and 
snappy acting. But when the girls 
came in —O. Queen Victoria thou 
art mighty yet!—they behaved like 
nice young ladies who have accident­
ally had a glass to much of home 
brew at a high school party! One 
wondered if no one could be found 
in all the Arts School to tell them 
what a French grisette is really like. 
Of course it is obvious that this stu­
pid innocence which ruined the real­
ism of what should have been a 
scene of grimly ironic truth was a 
case of misplaced consideration for 
some of the self appointed censors 
of public morals who are the pests 
of democratic society. It is a pity 
we cannot exterminate prudes like 
other vermin, for indeed they spread 
diseases of the soul. Whenever a 
community begins to consider the 
ubiquitous “They” who (usually an- 
anaymously “say,” the sacred purple 
cows who “may object,” in that com­
munity arises an insidious miasma of 
cowardice which kills art and truth, 
character. and creation. Very subtly 
this happens. Good laste and cour­
tesy are invoked, and the artist made 
to seem the offender—as though 
these graces -were more important 
than truth and courage which tho 
Titles destroy.
Tho spoiling of this unimportant 
play by toning it down to the commu­
nity may sorvo to lllnstrato a prin­
ciple which seems to need restate­
ment. Ono thing and ono only is im­
moral in art: to falsify values, to 
make wrong attractive and right un­
attractive. That Is, to present life 
untruly. Indocorum is’qulto another 
matter, and ono with which are, like 
Holy Writ, does not concern itself. 
A play may bo both immoral and in­
decorous, like Rain and Kiki, or it
DAVIS
The headline this week is the 
“Creole Fashion Plate” as given by 
Karyl Norman, who comes to this 
theater with the phantasy called “The 
Tuneful Song Shop,” accompanied by 
Iveno Clarks and Bobbie Slmmonds. 
These feminine characteriations are 
excellently given, and chief among 
them is his feminine Apache.
From the West come the Sher­
woods, Bob and Gale, who bring with 
them a dozen entertainers. The or­
chestra is a mixed group of young 
men and young women, each a soloist 
and they will play a number of popu­
lar numbers, in addition to vocal 
solos by the Sherwoods.
“Smarty’s Party” by George Kelly, 
who wrote the "Show Off”, will be 
given by Mme. Beeson. The mottos 
for this act is “Hell hath no fury 
like a woman scorned.”
Billy Shone and Lulse 'Squires will 
present Lobby Follies, which is a 
group of monkey business.
Frank Marino and Tony Martin 
sing and danco, and feature a “Let­
ter from Peetsa-burgh.” Roger Wil­
liams will sing of tho South. Six 
famous Chinese warriors will do 
sword stunts, and will show skill with 
battle-axe fighting. Perkins "Trou­
badours” will featuro physical skill.
ALVIN
The good-bye visit of "Blossom 
Time” is tho featuro here this week. 
Tho original Ambassador Theater 
cast is iu tho production. It is un­
necessary to say anything moro about
this most lovely of musical produc­
tions.
GRAND
Milton Sills and Viola Dana are co- 
starred in this drama, “As Man De­
sires”,, and they are supported by 
Ruth Cliffors, Rosemary Theby, Irv­
ing Cummings, and others. The addi­
tional feature of the bill is the Van­
ity Fair orchestra, composed of elev­
en girls. They will be assisted by 
Bernard Ferguson and Helen New- 
itt who will sing. This orchestra Is 
the best thing of the type ever heard 
in the city.
PITT
"Cobra”, Lawrence Weber’s drama 
is booked for this week, with Ralph 
Morgan. This play has come from 
eighteen months in New York and it 
brings the same cast with the road 
company. The play took the Metro­
polis by storm, and it is still the 
same show.
SCHENLEY THEATER
"The Age of Innocence” adapted 
from the Pulitzer prize novel by Ed­
ith Wharton, will bo the headline 
photoplay attraction on Monday, 
Tuesday and Wednesday, in which 
Beverly Bayne, Elliott Dexter and 
Willard Louis form the trio of stars 
to head the cast.
"One Glorious Night” featuring 
Elaine ITammerstein, is the feature 
attraction to be shown on Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday.
may bo moral and indecorous like 
Ghosts and much of Shakespeare; or 
moral nnd decorous, or Immoral and 
decorous. But plays and books are 
bad or good because of their inherent 
untruth or truth, and their indecorum 
matters not a whit.
The “Death Watch” is a badly built 
play, but properly acted it is grimly 
moral. The first half .is gruesome 
realism. So directed it wrould have 
carried. Everyone should have been 
drunk, not amusingly, but disgusting­
ly, especially the women. ' There 
should have been cigarettes sagging 
from women’s drunken lips, and 
lewd gesture’. C’est la guerre. Let 
us have it in full, humanity turned 
beast. Then enter the condemned 
man, just as. Hairy Mervis acted him, 
worn with strain, but gallant, hoping 
against hope, a gentleman dragged 
in to spend his last hours in com­
pany -with their bestiality. There 
would have been irony and power in 
that, enough to carry until the action 
quickens into the vigorous melodrama 
of the close. The actors did so well 
that it was evident they could have 
done better if they had dared. As 
it was, the play’s structural faults 
stood out clearly. Even so, some of
us liked it, and found the melo­
drama a relief from a rather un- 
dramatic bill.
ALLENE GREGORY.
European Tours
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Days
$395 and up
College credit up to 8. hours 
if desired
For full particulars address
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Tours Division 
Washington Square, New Torlc
I Terra Cotta Institute 
Opens For Three Days
In Co-operation With Nat’l 
Terra Cotta Organization
A three days’ institute, devoted ex­
clusively to lectures and discussions 
on terra cotta, opens today in co­
operation with the National Terra 
Cotta ‘Society. The purpose of the 
conference. Director Connelley points 
out, is to bring together people who- 
are directly related to the terra cot­
ta industry, and also, to arouse a 
greater public, interest in the uses of 
terra cotta in building construction 
developments.
Special invitations to attend the 
three days’ institute have been is­
sued to architects, builders, artists, 
and students in these fields in the 
Pittsburgh District. The first of its 
kind in this country, the institute has 
already aroused much interest among 
architects and builders and a large 
attendance at all of the sessions Is 
expected. The only charge to those 
who attend will be a small registra­
tion fee to partially defray expenses.
Assisting the Department of Indus­
trial Relations In completing ar­
rangements have been representa­
tives of the Pittsburgh Chapter of 
the American Institute of Architects, 
the Pittsburgh Architectural Club, 
Pittsburgh Ceramics Club, Pitts­
burgh Builders Exchange, Pittsburgh 
Bard of Education, and the National 
Terra Cotta Society.
The program will include ten lec­
tures by authorities in their fields of 
work with ample time set aside at 
each session for discussion periods 
in connection with the lectures. The 
institute will be opened Tuesday 
morning at 10 o’clock with registra­
tion scheduled in the Central build­
ing. At the first session to be held 
at 2:00 p. m, in the Little Theater, 
with Charles T. Ingam. of Pitts­
burgh, presiding as chairman, the ad­
dresses of welcome will be given by 
Dr. Baker, and Dr. C. B. Connelley.
Throughout the three days’ insti­
tute, a terra cotta exhibit will be 
shown in the Exhibition Hall from 
nine a. m. to 10 p. m. each day, open 
to the. public. The exhibit will in­
clude designs and drawings in color, 
terra cotta in panel form, interior 
decoration, polychrome cornices, and 
terra cotta specimens. A part of the 
exhibit will be put on display in the 
Metropolitan Art Museum in New 
York later.
The school committee assisting Dr. 
Connelley is composed of Associate 
Professor Russell Hyde, Associate 
Professor Frank Hitchens, and Wal­
ter Stulen, instructor, of the Depart­
ment of Architecture, College of 
Fine Arts; John T. Morris, Director, 
Clifford G. Dunnells. head of the De­
partment of Building Construction, 
and Charles W. Larkin, head instruc­
tor in Masonry and Concrete work, 
of the College of Industries.
V. S. MOLLENAUER TO
ATTEND SELF- GOVERN-
MENT CONVENTION
Tbe Student Council, at its regu­
lar meeting last Tuesday night, de­
cided to send its president, Vernon
S. Mollenauer, to represent Carnegie 
at the convention of the National 
student Self-Government Association 
at Manhattan, Kansas, sometime in 
April, probably during Easter vaca­
tion.
This convention, held for the pur­
pose of communicatfcig new ideas 
and revising old ideas in student self- 
government is an annual event, dele­
gates coming from institutions of 
higher learning in all parts of the 
country. g |
CLAYMORE CLUB
There will be a meeting of the 
Claymore Club in Room 107 Arts 
School at 4:30 Thursday afternoon, 
March 19. O
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Service-, 11:00 A.M. 
Young People’s Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
ALL 
SEATS
25cSCHENLEY
ALL
SEATS
25cTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GEN’L MGR.
.j. ^ .f. 4. .$« .] (.
DIED
First Church of Christ, ! 
Scientist
Clyde Street. Near Fifth Avenue j
Sunday. 11 A. M. and S P. M. j 
Wednesday, S P. M.
Sunday School. 11 A. M.
• Frantz Torbert Parke of Mon-
• esson, Pa., Freshman in the *
• College of Engineering, died * 
;• Monday, March 9, in the Pres- *:•
> byterian Hospital of Pittsburgh. *
Frantz Parke became sick v 
;• Thursday and on Friday was ?
> taken to the hospital, where ho ? 
:• rapidly grow worse. Spinal v 
1 meningitis was the disease which
;« caused his death. Carnegie stu- * 
;? dents attended the funeral, which
> was hold on Thursday, March
1 12, at Monesson. ?
> Parke was born in Patterson, -I* 
:? N. J., April 17, 1906, and moved •!«
> to Monessen the following year.
> Three years ago he graduated ? 
:? from Monesson High School, the *>
youngest student in the history *
> of the school. He attended -I*
• Washington and Jefferson Col- *!*
• lege for two years before enter- *
• ing Carnegie this fall.• v v v v v -I* *5» *i* *i* ? *i*
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
“The Age of 
Innocence”
Based on Edith Wharton’s prize 
winning novol with
Beverly Bayne 
Elliott Dexter 
Edith Roberts 
Willard Louis 
and Stuart Holmes
Sportlight Film Comedy News
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
“One Glorious 
Night”
Featuring
FI AINF 
HAMMERSTEIN
An absorbing story of a wom­
an’s search for happiness. 
Comedy News Review
A Specially Selected Musical Novelty Will Be 
Presented During the Entire Week 
A Presentation With Exceptional Merit

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTARPAGE THREE
- i ARTSP TLYRILSBU G
DÍETRICH MANAGER 
OF 1926 BASKETBALL
TENNIS PROSPECTS FOR 
THIS SPRING ONLY FAIR
Athletic Council Announces 
Men Earning Letters and 
Numerals
At a meeting of the Athletic Coun­
cil last week the varsity “C” was 
awarded to nine men for their serv­
ices in basket ball during the past 
season, numerals were granted to 
six men, and Varsity and Freshman 
managers and essistant managers 
were announced for next season.
The men who participated in the 
required number of games to earn 
a letter were Lloyd Amans, P. K. 
Conrad, W. W. Donohoe, D. V. Beede, 
W. N. Lynch and 0. B. Newman. 
Wesley. Glanz and Francis W. Coolc 
fell a few halves short of being in 
enough games to earn a letter ac­
cording to the rules, but upon recom­
mendation of the coach were award­
ed the coveted insignia because of 
meritorious service during the past 
season. Manager Dick Cutting also 
; received a varsity “C,” while Man­
ager Eddie Miller of the Freshman 
team was awarded a minor “C.”
The men earning their numerate 
on the Plebe team this year were A. 
J. Sebastian, N. J. Cowan, G. Ritts, 
Hugh Monroe, B. Hurd and F. H. 
Bromley.
Harry Dietrich was appointed stu­
dent manager of the Varsitty quintet 
for next season, succeeding Diclc Cut­
ting. Dietrich is an aggressive young 
man. trustworthy and of good per­
sonality. He displayed his manager­
ship ability when he took charge of 
the reins for the PJebes while Eddie 
Miller was ineligible during the first 
semester. He is a Junior in Mech- 
ical Engineering, and a member of 
the Delta Upsilon fraternity.
William Sherman Hanley was ap­
pointed student manager of the 
Plebes for- next year. He is & Junior 
in Commercial Engineering. He hails 
from Pittsburgh, and is a member 
of the Sigma Epsilon Phi fraternity.
The first assistants will be Jack 
High, Joseph ' Holloway and Joe 
Dowling, with Charles Craw, as alter­
nate. The first three mentioned have 
worked faithfully for three years, 
while* Craw dropped out of school 
last year, and just now is rated as a 
Sophomore.
The second assistants • appointed 
were John Scarlett, J. Winslow Jack­
son, C. P. Hamilton," Robert Fred­
erick, Gerald Seibert and Conrad 
Wiersteiner. These men will be in 
line for first assistants next year, as 
will Craw.
Typewriting-
Copy work of all kinds— 
manuscripts, theses, etc. 
PERRIN, Carnegie Tech P. O.
With an impressive schedule as an 
incentive for hard work the candi­
dates for varsity tennis got down 
to intensive indoor practice last 
week for the coming season. Mana­
ger Sload has arranged one of the j 
finest schedules that any tennis team ' 
at Carnegie has had for many years. 
The feature of the schedule is a 
three-day trip through New Yorkj 
State, starting at Syracuse and end­
ing at New York City, with a stop­
over at Schenectady for a match \ 
with Union College of that city.
Coach Fink is not optimistic with 
the prospects this year as Rogers 
and Bourns of the Varsity and Rudi- 
sill from the Freshman team of last 
year have not returned to school. 
However, with Harry Smith, George 
Belcher, Paul Bawrou, lettermen from 
last yegr and Bill Keme'ry, a letter- 
man from three years ago, he ex­
pects to build a representative team. 
With these men as a nucleus and 
Jones and McWilliams, Carnegie may 
have a team this year that- will be 
a reminder of the old Tri-state cham­
pions of several years back.
Candidates for the Freshman team 
are working out daily and Manager 
Young has arranged matches with 
Rayen High of Youngstown, West­
mont High of Johnstown. Craftou. 
Wilkinsburg and several others, in­
cluding the Pitt Freshmen. All men 
who have any tennis ability at all 
áre asked to come out and try for 
the team.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
PLEBE QUINTET MAKES 
A MEDIOCRE SHOWING
CANDIES 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER 
6 TO 8 P. M.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
Is serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Rey- 
mer Store.
The Plebe basket ball team this 
year did not burn up tiie Freshman 
circuit, judging from the number of 
games won and .losf. Out of eleven 
games played only four were regis­
tered on the winning side.
It must be remembered, however, 
that Coach John Irwin started the 
season under very adverse circum­
stances. After having his combina­
tion .practically picked, several of 
his best men were lost through in­
eligibility. A new team was hurried 
ly assembled and sent against the 
Penu State, W. & J. and Pitt Fresh­
men teams, all away from home. 
This opening was none too auspici­
ous, as every one of those games 
were registered in the lost column.
The next game was with California 
Normal and resulted in a victory for 
the Plebes ¡by a close margiu. In­
diana Normal next fell victim to the 
Plebes, who .appeared to have found 
themselves. fI]he spurt was short­
lived, for the next two games to 
Pitt Freshmen and Kiski were both 
lost. The. bright spot of the season 
for the Skibo .'yearlings was the de­
cisive defeat handed the Wash-Jeff 
Freshmen in the. return engagement. 
California Normal reversed the tables 
by winning their return engagement.
At this stage coach Irwin took 
charge of the varsity on account of 
the illness of Coach Lubic. Jimmy 
Robertson was .appointed to guide 
the destinies of the Plebes from this 
point on, and he did very nobly.
His first venture was to take tho 
Freshmen on a trip on which Indiana 
Normal was defeated, but a game tc 
Kiski was lost. The Kiski game 
was the last one <of the season, and
ARTSPLYIPBU
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
r
The
SPORT SACK
(Four cPiece)
JVITH knickers a sport 
suit—with trousers a sack 
suit. In woolens of rare 
quality and rich pattern, 
the popular all ’round suit.
*3950 and HXM
nat IAJXENBERG &> bros. 
841 Broadway, New York
} Next showing at Hotel j 
"l Schenley, May 1st and 2nd :
Our style memo, book sent free an request
ULHPIOLUE
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING-
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A~\ for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
SPRING FOOTBALL
Graduate Manager Clarence Overend announced last week that spring 
football practice would again be held this year. Tho men will be called out 
about the middle of April, and workouts will continue under tho direction of 
Coaches Bob Waddell and Dr. Marks daily until the weather gets too warm.
Last year spring football brought out some new men who later showed 
to advantage. The object is to get men out. who are unknown and develop 
them for the fall and to increase the football knowledge of those who were 
out before. In every college there are men who will not report for foot-f
iall because of some reason or other, but who would develop into stars if 
hey only knew it. In the spring more time can bo given by the coaches 
to the fundamentals of the game, such as tackling, blocking, running inter­
ference, carrying the ball, punting, forward passing and numerous other 
things.
It is true that several men who were. on the football squad last year will 
be unable to go out for spring football training because of tho fact that they 
will be taking part in track or baseball, but all others are urged to report 
when the time comes. If you have the physique, wether-you have ever played 
any football or not, give it a trial. You won’t be sorry.
THE INTER-FRATERNITY-DORMITORY FINALS
Much interest has been manifested this year in the various school basket 
ball leagues, and this presages an even greater interest in the finals which 
are to bqgin next Saturday. The schedule for the finals is announced on 
another part of this page.
Scobell Hall apparently had little trouble winning in their league, 
though Delta Tau Delta gave them a hard battle in the game last week. 
The Phi Kaps are supreme in the American League, having defeated Beta 
Theta Pi, their nearest opponents, by a large score. Pi Kappa Alpha can 
thank Henderson Hall for defeating Delta Upsilon, thus eliminating that team 
after it had led the league throughout the season. Had the Pi Kaps lost 
to Beta Sigma Rho in the last game of the season, there would have been 
a quadruple tie in the National League, showing that the teams in this 
league were more evenly matched than in the other two.* * * * * $ *
INTER-CLASS BASKET BALL
Basket ball is not over for the year, despite the advent of warm weather,
track and baseball. The Science Juniors have organized a team, and have
challenged any other class in school. The Industries Sophomores have dono 
likewise. We are liable to see some spirited basket ball games besides those 
which will be played for the inter-fraternity-dormitory championship this 
month. \
There is also some talk of organizing class soccer teams.' The P. T. 
department should work out some scheme along this line which may be of 
interest to the students. Why not work up some, healthy class rivalry in 
sports?***** o *
DYKEMAN WILL ASSIST HALFERTY
Because of the fact that tho prospects for track aro not exceptionally 
bright this spring, which will place a great deal of work upon Coach Guy 
Halferty's shoulders in developing new men, “Howdy” Dykeman. has offered 
his valuable services to the squad, gratis. Dykoman will assist in developing
the distance men, which will give Coach Halferty more time to devoto to
the other boys.
Dykeman will himself get into condition to take part in moots this 
spring. He is going to run under the colors of the P. A. A., for though he is 
still in school lie has rim four years on the Tartan team and is not available 
this spring for inter-collegiate competition.*****<«*
, ROBERTSON TO COACH PLEBES
Jimniy Robertson, who has gained fame in four sports at Carnegie, has 
been appointed Freshman baseball coach for this, season. Jimmy needs no 
introduction to followers of Plaid athletics, and has already proven himself 
a good coabh. Given fair material he will turn out a representative team.* * * . * * * *
.-j Manager Dave Garber is looking around for some sprinters for the Plebe 
track team. Men have reported for the othor departments, but there seems 
to be a lack of sprinters. Come oh, Plobes, are there no last ones among 
you?*******
The realm of sportdom lost last Saturday ono of its most loyal and re­
vered followers, Walter Camp. News of the famous Yale coach’s death comes 
as an especial shock to the many football enthusiasts throughout (lie country. 
He was the father of American football and the man who devised the "dnily 
dozen” system of exercises. Since 1S89 a feature of each football season has 
been Mr. Camp’s. All-American selections. His choice was undisputed and 
absolutely final. It is doubtful if his place, in this respoct will evor bo filled; 
if it is, a conference of the leading coaches of the country will probably make 
the mythical selections.*******
There was a,'baseball call for'all positions yesterday. Did you report? *******,
Batter up! _________________________
INTER-FRAT DORM 
CHAMPS DECIDED
SCHEDULE FOR FINALS; IN
CH AM I0NSH IP ANNOUNCED
Pi Kappa Alpha, Phi Kappa 
and Scobell Win in Re­
spective Leagues
Robertson’s batting average as coach 
was just .500, somewhat ahead of 
the previous showing of the team.
Everyone of the boys deserve a | 
great deal of credit for their work. 
They put forth their best efforts at 
all times. Hurd was the outstanding 
scoro-getter, leading the field by a 
big margin. Monroe end Cowan fol­
lowed. Pitts, Captain Sebastian, and | 
Bromley, though not of the tlashy 
type, played consistently and were 
always dependable. Manager Eddie 
Miller discharged his duties very 
creditably, and must be compliment-1 
ed for the excellent schedule which 
he drew up for the team.
The summary of the games playón 
is as follows:
Plebes 32, Penn State 3S.
Plebes 10, W. & J. 26.
Plebes 9, Pitt 56.
Plebes 23, California Normal 22. j
Plebes 26, Indiana Normal 17.
Plebes 29, Pitt 39.
Plebes 14, Kiski 36.
Plebes 26, W. & J. 9.
Plebes 20, California Nor. 28.
Plebes 26, Indiana Nor. 24.
Plebes 28, Kiski 39.
Schedule is Revised Hor 
Girls’ Basketball Games
The first basket ball game ol' the 
season was won by tho Sophomores 
who defeated Design School in a 
close contost, by a score of 1.9 to 12. 
So far the Sophomores aro leading, 
as only ono game . has been played. 
The game scheduled for last Friday 
between tho Sophs and Plobos has 
been postponed to March 23. The 
rovised scliodule is art follows:
March 17—-Junior vs. Design.
March 18—Seniors vs. Sophs.
March 19—Juniors vs. Plebes.
March 20—Seniors vs. Design.
March 23—Sophs vs. Plebes.
March 24—Seniors vs. Plebes.
March 25—Juniors vs. Sophs.
March 26—Plebes vs. Design.
March 27—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Low—I hear Mary is very fast.
Lower—Very—she’s always one Finch­
ley lap ahead of the others.
Apologies to the Kentucky Cardinal
FRATERNITY THISTLE DELE­
GATES TO MEEET THURSDAY
On Thursday, March 19, at 4:30, 
there will be. a meeting of represen­
tatives of the various social fratern­
ities in Room 127, Industry building. 
At this meeting Carey Proctor, Fra­
ternity- Editor of the Thistle, will 
give instructions as to how the pic­
tures, which are to be mounted by 
the fraternities themselves this year, 
are to be arranged.
Only the finals remain to deter- j 
mine the Interfratemity-Dormitory 1 
basketball champion; It is true there 
are a few more games to be played, 
but they will not affect the results, 
as the leadens in each league are al­
ready "in." The games of tho past 
week only served to emphasize tho 
superiority of the circuit winners.
Tho champions in their respective 
leagues are: Pi Kappa Alpha, Na­
tional; Phi Kappa, American; Sco­
bell Hall, Federal. Each of those 
teams will play each other twico in 
the play-off, and if this should only 
secure the elimination of one, the re­
maining two will have to fight it out. 
As planned at present, the elimina­
tion series will start Saturday night, 
March 21. and continue throughout 
the next week. The team with a 
winning percentage at the end of 
that time will have fully earned the 
right tc call themselves tlio 1925 
Champions.
The question of supremacy in tho 
Federal League was just settled 
Wednesday, when Dolta Tau Delta 
was forced to bow to S'cobell by tho 
close margin of ono field goal. This 
throws second place into a three-cor­
nered tie and leaves Scobell out in 
front by a good bit. Phi Kappa had 
no trouble in winning from Sigma 
Nu, 47-3. Sichi’s fourteen field goals 
gives him tho higli-scoring honors of 
the seasoh for a single game, and as­
sures his team of tho lead in total 
scoring also. Running true to previ­
ous form, the Pi Kappa Alpha team 
easily disposed of Beta Sigma Rho 
in winding up their schodulo. It was 
not thoir victory, howovor, ns much 
as Dolta Upsolin’s loss that decided’ 
the league winner. Tho latter flgur- 
d as easy winners ovor Henderson, 
pulled the unexpoctod and lost the 
game and tho title chance at tho 
same time, evon though by only throo 
points.
Kappa Sigma’s victory puts thorn 
in a tie for third place in tho Amor- 
lean, as doos that of Thota Xi In tho 
National loaguo. Both won easily, 
25-0 and 37-0, rosnoetivoly. Socond 
honors in tho American loop wore as­
sured tho Beta Thota PI quint whon 
they downed thoir rivals for the 
place, Sigma Epsilon Phi. Results 
last woolc:
Pi Kappa. Alpha ...............................24
Beta Sigma Rho ............................... 4
Henderson ...........................................19
Dolta Upsilon .........................16
Alpha Tau Omoga ...........................21
Woodlawn ........................................... 7
Thota Xi .............................................«7
Boss ................................................... 0
Beta Tbetn Pi ...................................24
Sigma Epsilon Phi .........................11
McG.Ul ................................................. 9
Welch .................................................. 7
Pìii Kappa ............
Sigma Nu ..............
....47 
.... 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .......................27
Delta Mu .............................................10
Kappa Sigma .....................................25
Acacia ....................................;........... 0
Scoboll ................................................. 9
Delta Tau Delta ............................... 7
Kappa Sigma Rho .............................14
Delta Chi Rho .................................... 8
STAID SENIORS. TO TRIP
ABOUT PARADISE ISLE
(Continued From Page One.) 
with this estimate. They depend up­
on the over-attendance, by Seniors to 
make up the deficit, and, in case they 
are misled in their hopes, there will 
be a call for funds by the Ball Trea­
surer to the Class Treasurer. It is 
up to the S'eniors to try to prevent 
such a call from being made.
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday 
afternoons and evenings will be giv­
en over to the decorating of the Un­
ion, and any of the Seniors who may 
have time are urged to come up and 
lend a hand. L. H. Harris, will be 
there all three days, and will be 
very glad to have the assistance of 
any who can spare the time.
Delta Phi Delta . 
lata Sigma Delta
.. .19 
.. .17
interfraternity Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Delta Upsilon
Beta Sigma Rho
Woodlawn ..........
Boss .....................
Kappa Sigma ............
Sigma Epsilon Phi .. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Sigma Nu ...................
McGill
Kappa
Welch
Iota Sigma Delta 
Delta Chi Rho ...
AMERICAN LEAGUE
FEDERAL LEAGUE
r,1.857
2.714
42.666
42.666
4.572
2•i.333
1.5.166
0ß.000
701.000
(iI.857‘A.666
2.666
¦1.428
15.166
1fJ.113
0C.000
601.000
52.714
52.714
52.714
3.500
15.166
10.143
06.000
FINAL SCHEDULED FRAT
LEAGUE GAMES THIS WEEK
March 17
Delta Chi Rho—Delta Phi Delta.?:30
Scobell—Welch .............................7:30
Woodlawn—Henderson ................8:30
Alpha Tau Omega—Boss ..........8:30
March 18
Sigma Epsilon Phi—Delta Mu ..7:30
Sigma Nu—Acacia .......................8:30
Beta Sigma Rho—Theta XI ___7:30
The schedule of the final League 
games is as follows:
March 21 
Phi Kappa vs. Pi Kappa Alpha 
March 23 
Scobell vs. Phi Kappa 
March 24 
Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Scobell 
March 25 
Phi Kappa vs. Pi Kappa Alpha
March 21- 
Mnrch 23- 
March 34- 
Marcli 25- 
March 26- 
March 27- 
All games 
Amori can 
Kappa.
National I. 
pa Alpha.
Federal L 
Hall.
-American-National. 
-A morion n-Fed oral. 
-Federal-National. 
•Ame r iean-N ational. 
-American-Federal. 
-Fodera 1-Nationa 1. 
start at S:00 P. M. 
League Winner —-Phi
luglio Winner—Pi Kap- 
laguo Winner—Scobell
SWIMMING MEET WILL 
BEHELD MAR.28IN GYM
Baseball Program 
Fixed For Season
All Candidates Begin Practice 
in New Gym This Week
An interfratarnity-dormitory-class 
swimming meet will bo hold on Sat­
urday, March 28, the preliminaries to 
bo at 2 o’clock in the afternoon and 
tho finals at. S p., m. A large silver 
cup will be given to the fraternity, 
dormitory or class winning the moot 
for one year. Tho meet is open to 
all students registered in the day 
school, but no student will be al 
lowed to enter more than three 
events, the relay counting as one 
ovont should the student enter that. 
In each oven there will be.fcnly one 
man from each fraternity, dormitory 
or class. The class team will be 
composed of men who do .not bolong 
to a fraternity or dormitory.
Chris Bukema, who is in chargo of 
the meet, announces that all entries 
must bo handed in to him on or be­
fore Saturday, March 21, so that final 
arrangements can bo made.
Tho events which t.ro to' be run 
aro as follows: 25-yard dash, free
style; 50-yard dash, free stylo; 100- 
yard dash, t’reo stylo; 50-yard dash, 
back stroke; 100-yard dash, breast 
stroke; fancy diving; plunge for dis­
tance; 200-yard relay, four men 50 
yards' each.
The points will be: Five for first
place, throo for socond place, two 
for third place, one for fourth place. 
In tho rolay tho points will boi 
Eight for first place, flvo for second 
placo, throo for third placo, ono for 
fourth placo.
This moot will offer an excellent, 
opportunity for anyone who can swim 
at all to get Into tho limelight. It 
Is understood that there Is a, donrth 
of swimming material in school, so 
that any organization on tho cnmpus 
has possibilities of winning tlho cov- 
otod clip. Got busy, fraternities, dor­
mitories, classes.
Smiles fi^it 
^ back, at
> AfterEVeryMeal
G
Wriglcy'a increase« tho 
flow of saliva and relieves 
that “»tuffed" feeling. Clears 
tho throat, steadies nerves 
and swee(eni the breath. 
Cleans teeth too.
F58
'Costs little-helps jrmch “ * 1
During tho past week baseball 
has been ,progressing by leaps and, 
bounds. Battery practice has had a 
good start and candidates for all po­
sitions reported at the new gym yes­
terday afternoon. Until the weather 
makes a turn for the bettor, daily 
j practice sessions will be hold in the 
gymnasium instead of on Schenley. 
Oval.
Although quite a few men have re­
sponded to the call for pitchers and 
catchers, Coach Don Blythe would 
like to see more candidates come out 
for' these positions. Among the pres­
ent pitching staff are C-onday, Bas­
sett, Bielski, Bright, Leibornight, 
Lynch, Fraser, Maurer, Barlow ami 
Escher. Tlieso men have been lim­
bering up every afternoon for tho 
past week and are now rounding up 
into fair shape. Those out for catch­
er are , Dueehling, Diffley, Guthrie, 
Downer and Cutting. Several uioro 
catchers of known ability rave ex­
pressed their intention of trying out 
for the job, and are expected to join 
the squad this week.
The schedule has been completely 
drawn up. and several of the host 
teams in tho East will be encounter­
ed. An Easter trip will start the 
season’s program: Georgetown, Navy 
and St. Johns being met on consec­
utive days, May 7, 8 and 9. Tho 
team then returns to Pittsburgh fflul 
plays Juniata here. »Several days 
Inter Bethany is encountered at 
Bethany. The next thrc-e games will 
bo played away from home on a trip 
which terminates at. State College; 
Juniata, Bucknell and Penn State bo- 
ing the- teams mot. A week later tho 
Center Countians play tho Skibos a 
return gamo hero. On May 9 tho' 
Tartans'journey to Grove City for a 
contest. Tho remainder of tho. sched­
ule, consisting of four games will 
bo plnyod on Carnegie’s homo field; , 
Buolcnell, Grove City, Bothany and 
St. Bonavonturc being met on May 
15, 21, 23 and 20, respectively.
Mnnngor J. II. Joint; is ari'unglng 
an attraction for tho dato of April 
18; tho name of tho school will ho 
announced la tor.
Cn.ncfifla.tps for tho Freshman 
squad were called out, yesterday, and 
work will start this wook to shape 
up a representative team. Little Is 
known of the baseball abilities of 
tho Frosh men so that the prospects 
for the yearlings' season will bo very 
much in doubt until sqvoral games 
aro, played. Oy Hoonnlgor Is tho 
mnnngor of tho Plobo tonm nnd has 
aboil I. completed an attractive nohod- 
ule of college Freshman and normal 
school tonms.
Froshmnn and Sophomore assistant 
managers are needed, and all- thoiio 
Interested In tho managing phaso of 
tho sport aro urged to report at 
once to the training ciuarters In tho 
banomont ol! the Margaret. Mprrlnon 
building.
'I’ho comploto Varsity schedule Id 
as follows:
Aiirll 7 Georgetown...thoro.
April 8..Navy there.
April 9—St. Johns- there.
April 15- -.Innlata—-hero
April 18 (fending.) ,.Vr, >((|
April 19 liothany - there.
A pr 11 30—- J uniatn—t h ere.
May 1. Hneluiell there.
May 2—Pon'n State-—there.
May 8 Penn State—boro.
May 9—Grovo Clty—thore.
May .15-- Bucknell—here,
May' 21—Grove' City—hero.
May 23—Bothany—here.
May 2G—-St., Bonaventure—here.
INTERFRAT FORMAL ^
DECIDED SUCCESS
(Continued From Page One.) 
Work, and Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Tar- 
boll.
Such a faultless evening certainly 
reflects great credit on the commit­
tee headed by Paul Bowron, with his 
co-workers V. S, Mollenauer, C. H. 
James, D. S. Garber, and Kline Ful­
mer. Congratulations are in order 
for their very effective work.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
The Fraternity of 
Business)
Rosdn now to form tho nH&ooIrifiontt 
and Imbit« thnt will nervo you whon 
you ontor tho hijnlncKii world, A lmnk account, nitido from tho tun- 
«Ihio valuo, fur/iltihoii expc-rlonco 
nnd contact« which will opmtlo to your «dvftntiiRo hi l<it*-r your*,
Tho porxonnl Inl/tront of Mollon of- l\i:orn In tho financial wo I faro of 
dormltor* In ono of tho oulwtnnd- 1 nv, charactorlutlcn of tho innlltu- 
tlon. Our «xtxirlonco and html- non« JudKwont tiro at your tvorvlco. 
Capital nnd Burplun $12,000,000.00
" Mellon National BankPittsbuj£<^h, Pa.
3®» ‘1 MADE IN THE, ENGLISH WAY ’ ’ isMEHiaia|
15
WATCH FOR EXHIBITS
of our correctly denifjnod MEN’S CLOTHES onrcfully tailored In the pj 
ENGLISH FASHION from DISTINCTIVE IMPORTED nnd DOMES- £ 
TIC FABRIC8.
You will nerve your pockct book ao well ao your wardrobe If we 
make your next suit,
NATIONAL TAILORS, Inc.
, „ ¿ATO ORDER TO ORDER
JflDTiillL T 1
Our representative will display our line at Skibo Inn March 19 and 20 g 
"Nationally Known—Justly Famous'*
laaeaaaaa “MADE IN THE ENGLISH WAY”roram§

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 17, 1925GGGG
ALUMNI AT“I
Department of Printing
In this ago of Industrial achieve- 
nmont, tho only man who can hope to 
-roach tho highest and host placo» 
•within his calling must ho tochnl- 
•cally trained. Particularly doe« thin 
.uoom to ho truo of tho printing In­
dustry. The ougernoBB with which 
-war graduate» are »ought, indicate 
•that there exists a real demand for 
'tho typo of Btudont that Carnogle In* 
«tituto of Technology 1» preparing 
.'lor this highly specialized industry 
which ranks as fifth in importance 
in those United States.
Tho primary object of the courBC 
••given by the Department of Print­
ing of the College of Indu»trles is to 
train young men for future oxocu- 
•ftive positions In the printing 
flboainosK.
RBABN phase of our instruction has 
¡naturally found favor among master 
jprinter» who have seen in it an op- 
TPortunity, to give their sons a liberal 
nsrta education, a thorough acqualn- 
¦tanco with business subjects and a 
¡printing training unobtainable else- 
-whero under similar conditions.
Hut many others beside employ- 
<or»’ aons have availed themselve» of 
liio advantage» afforded by this 
school, with the result that our grad- 
•TiatoB nnd HtudentB are to he found 
i>ocupy1ng positions as superlntend- 
-ents, assistant managers, estimators, 
taalesmen, designers and layout men, 
•oont accountants, advertising wri- 
lors, teachers of printing production 
.and nervlco men, or as executives in 
"tho particular mechanical field which 
ihas appealed to thorn.
Anothor important object of the 
‘JDopartmont of Printing is to further 
-What is known a» Pine Printing, 
liitherto the men representing tho 
Srigh est standards in printing have 
"bcon, so far aa what may he called 
vljhe refinement» of the craft are con- 
/oomed, Belf-tralned. By reaaon of the 
emphasis that is now placed upon 
‘tho osthetic factor, there is a greater 
«demand than ever for men who can 
+bring the proBtlgo of auporior taato 
nnd workmanship. to the establish- 
TmontH with which they aro associ­
ated. To moot this demand, tho Lab­
oratory Proaa of tho Department of
Printing provide» a special form of 
training which will enable the stu­
dents who elect tho course to enter 
tho printing profession while they 
are »1.111 young men, with an equip­
ment of knowledge which they might 
otherwise acquire only after an ex­
tended experience and with tho op­
portunities for study which the de­
mands of active work and busine»» 
render so uncertain.
The third object of. our school in 
the giving of special courses of in­
tensive study for men of journeyman 
rank. These courBe» may follow 
along line» of. typography, press- 
work, oostfinding, machine componl- 
fion, shop management, advertising 
and the like. Several compoBltors 
who have entered the school with 
aptitude for doslgn have achieved 
wide recognition among the craft.
The service that the Dopartment 
of Printing 1» attempting to perform 
for the printing induHtry could be of 
little avail without tho Splendid co­
operation afforded by the Division of 
the College of Engineering and the 
College of Fine Arts Through the 
courses given in these departments 
of this groat in»tltution, we are en­
abled to provide a curriculum ao 
weighed with technical and busine»» 
subjects on tho one hand and the 
esthetic nnd economics on the other 
a» to constitute a well-night perfect 
balance.
We have not yet reached the Bum- 
mit of our ambition», but we are 
mea»urably nearer it with each re­
curring year, and lhe favor with 
which the courses are looked upon by 
the printing craft in general is very 
encouraging. This encouragement 
haB been expressed In many ways, 
but perhaps the most significant i» 
that the »alarlo» paid qualified men 
is con»idorably higher than thoae 
usually obtainable by college gradu­
ates. This discrepancy will no doubt 
be BLNF apparent as the supply of 
technically trained printers increas­
es; .but the point of saturation still 
look» quite remote.
There 1» surely opportunity in the 
printing business for the technically 
trained man.
HOOSIERS SPONSOR 
NORTH IND. CLAN
Much Interest Being Shown 
Over Annual Notre Dame 
Game Next Fall
[ CLAN NEWS j
JUNIOR8 CAPTURE
8CIENCE STAG CUP
(Continued from page one) 
¦/education, soloctod lltorary works of 
ahiffh morlt. Tho Sophomores doefd- 
^d on Hamlet a» thoir ideal and pro- 
-duood In a now stylo truly Barloy- 
•anoro, "Slmkospearc Unconscious", 
•tflrenoral opinion lma it that an unre­
fined edition waa used. "The Shoot­
ing of Dan McGrow" waa tho frosh- 
anan choice, and it had a true north­
ern flavor even though many warm 
urorda were apokon.
April1i8 of Campus Woolr and foot- 
ifcull garnca were very woll received. 
Tim winners of the popularity eon* 
¦trtat proved as bashful as was expec.t 
•«d, hut tho prizes were guaranteed 
l.o fulllll all seerel, longings and to 
3000J) all physically fit, The awards 
•were made as follows: Biggest; Bluf­
fer, Muck .Tamos; Largest;, Tiny Non- 
bit; Topples!,, L, llordnmn Harris 
dll; Mont Ladylike, P. B, Boyd; Most 
33nndriomo, Paul Mowron; Dost Dan 
tfMir.ilIp Joy*it.; Wisest Oraolcor «Timmy 
J>unhhaugh; Luckiest, .Toe lladdln; Boat 
¦Handshaker, JJeany ‘Poo; Has tho 
4M*nt line, Loo Htlmmlor; Busiost, 
-Tack 'Harris; Best Politician, Put 
'Ryan; Biggest; Crab, «Terry Slye; 
Bent Dancer, Tommy Laux.
Programs and elongated cigarette 
"holders woro given ns remembrances. 
After refreshments in the Commons, 
1310 cup was once moro awarded to 
¦tho Juniors, and then all adjourned 
¡determined aa was the ghost in Ham» 
:1et, that the Stag must repeat.
Tho committee is indebted to 
'George Lo Baron and W. H. Cavon 
tfor tho lighting, and to Mr. Miller for j 
the equipment.
“PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS”
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists’ and Engineers' Mate­
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
TICKET SALE FOR
INDUSTRIES SMOKER OPENS
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
tlvlty, and the prlntorB, with thoir 
hlgflh-poworod advertising ideaa, 
though they have kept mum on the 
subject, will suroly come through 
wlttU a real eye-opener. As yet, no 
definite information haa been foith- 
ooming from tho faculty camp, but 
Dean Morris haa taken the propoa' 
tion of entering a team under ad­
visement, and that Is usually a prom- 
lao of concentrated action. An aver­
age prof's depletion of the uctlom; 
of an average student would certainly 
prove Interesting, and would proba­
bly he a good defense against NLDEL 
of the vice-versa burlesque that aro 
surely forthcoming,
A good motion picture comedy and 
smokos and eats Havered with tho 
spice of good fellowship will complete 
tho bill of entertainment. II. la quite 
certain that Tho Tartaln vvill carry, 
with complete fidelity and u<i pang.i 
of conscience, the post, mortem, "and 
a AY,YB time waa had by all."
Tlekots are now on sale by a 
group of export, tuckers at one quar- 
ter-dollar per throw. It la hoped 
that tho students will respond to the 
first request, and make the prelimin­
ary propurnLlona, on which the suc­
cess of the nlfti'lr largely depends, 
much easier for all concerned.
Any "Tcch" atudonts who arc not 
wearing coma pin or button, ohowlng 
'‘Cnrnoglo" symbol can get the miss­
ing article at Slngor's Store, 122 Fifth 
avenue, Jenkins Arcade.
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School—
Not a public danco hall.
| Oakland Savings & ?
Trust Co. |
*> Moi.ibar Federal Rcuorvo 
X System. .j.
^ Capital...........................$300,000.00 *|;
X Surplus..........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Ovor - - - $5,000,000.00 X
X SAFE* DEPOSIT BOXES X 
FOR RENT
BILLIARD TABLE 
A rare bargain for quick sale. 
Nearly new Brunswick combina­
tion pocket billiard table, complete 
with accessories. .3. L. Lowrey, 
6412 Aylesboro Avenue. Phone 
Hazel 4243-J.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUfTS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pltsburgh, Pa.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellowa 
RAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
tnitmmnmmmmmmtmmmtmtttmi
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty
The following articles were taken 
from the South Bend Tribune of 
South Bend, Indiana. They »how 
some of the intoreat that i» being 
stirred up over the annual football 
garnet; between the two achools.
A committee haB been at work to 
form a new clan. They are trying 
to get in touch with all graduateB in 
that section.
They sent out the following state­
ment:
"Tho Carnegie Clan of Northern 
Indiana had it» inception when it 
was learned that there were a num­
ber of alumni and former students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology 
living In the vicinity of South Bend.
The aim of those sponsoring the clan 
is to provide a common bond to hold 
these men and women together to 
advance the cause of Carnegie in 
this part of the country. The Car 
negie-Notre Dame football game at 
Cartier field next fall gives ADN some­
thing definite to look forward to and 
our flint year’» program will be built 
around that e,vent. If a strong en- ming Association 
ougli organization can be effected it 
1» probable that influence can be 
brought to bear on the authorities 
at Pittsburgh which will result in 
bringing a large representation of the 
student body together with the fam­
ous Kiltie band to South Bend next 
fall."
The following B, an editorial taken 
from the South Bend Tribune at a 
later date:
Science and Art
"South Bond college students take 
an interest in Carnegie Tecli because 
of the annual game between Notre 
Dame university and the Pittsburgh 
school, which this year will be play­
ed on the South Bend field. By rea­
son of an interest among the stu­
dents in dramatic art we direct at­
tention to tho fact that this Carne­
gie school has a department of fine 
arts which turns out some excellent 
actors. Two member» of Mrs. Fiske’s 
company, which will play in South 
Bend this week are Carnegie Tech 
boys, one in the acting and another 
In the technical cast. They are the 
Mossra. Thomson and Willard. The 
Hconory was designed by a Carnegie 
Tech artist.
We point out those things in or­
der to show the contradiction of tho 
name of an institute of technology.
Andrew Carnegie founded tho school 
that tho children of the steel mill 
men might have technical training.
In 20 years tho technical aide has de­
veloped schools of applied industry 
and applied science and «long side 
them has grown up a school of ap­
plied doslgn from which architects, 
painters, modelers, musicians and 
actor» spring, Nowhere Is fine art 
found thriving more happily on the 
same campus with industry and sol-
HEW YORK CLAN
Plans are under way at the pres­
ent time for the reception o£ tbe 
Kiltie Band here during their Easter 
vacation.
MN the r.irangementa are completed 
further particular will be announc­
'd.
Subsequent records made by C C. 
N. Y. since their backet ball game 
with Carnegie here in Now York gc 
to elevate Carnegie in the minds of 
the local fans.
Ji is to be hoped that more ath­
letic events will be arranged In this 
section.
New Yorkers expect to flock to 
Philadelphia for the Intcr-cbilegiates 
at the Penn carnival in April to 
lend enthusiastic Buppori to tbe Ski­
bos who will compete.
Luncheon meetings every Tuesday 
at Stewart’» restaurant, 30 Park 
Place, New York. The attendance at 
these luncheons and the enthusiasm 
are greater Bince the big annual par­
ty litre.
Kindest thanks are expressed to 
those individuals and other clans 
that expressed their interest in our 
"doings."
Congratulations are extended for 
jonining the Inter-collegiate Swim-
ALUMNI LUNCHEON 
TO BE OFF CAMPUS
Department of Machinery Production
Bus Service Will Assist All 
Who Wish to Travel to 
Downtown Hotel
OUDGET ORGANIZATION
MUST CALL FOR LETTEn
fContinued on Pago Two,» 
American Society of Civil Engi­
neer«.
American Association of Engineers. 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers.
Society of Industrial Engineers. 
Commercial Club.
Metallurgy and Mining Society. 
Coal Minors Club.
Chemists Club.
American Socioty of Mechanical 
Engineers.
Gruphicu Club.
Household Economics Club. 
Secretarial Club. .
Science Club.
Costume Economics Club.
Social Workors Club.
Tau Beta Pi.
Alpha Kappa Epsilon.
Scarab.
Theta Tau.
Alpha Tau.
Tau Sigma Delta.
Dragon.
Delta Skull.
Druids.
Mortar Board.
Pi Delta Epsilon.
Pi Sigma Tau.
Clef Club.
Castle.
\LL FOOL'S DAY
PREPARATIONS COMPLETED
(Continued From Page One.) 
Margaret Taylor, Arts.
DIVISIONAL COM MITTEES— 
Industries.
M. D. Kallfelz, chairman assembly. 
Harry Schwab, judge.
A. E. Mellor, It. IL Rowley, Sid 
Forbes, jury.
i9. Lovlson, parade marshall. 
Science.
D. A. Gardner, chairman assembly. 
Robort. Bier, judge.
J. 10. Slye, .loo Raddln, L, Flow­
ers, Jury.
L. R. Sheppard, parade marshall. 
Art a,
Ohio Newman, ohalrman assombly. 
R. R, Young, judge, 
liofor Sload, Mlko Goodwin, Wal­
ter Lynch, jury.
Rod Porreton, parade marshall. 
Margaret Morrison.
Mary Stoumpllo, chnlrmau assem­
bly.
Bernice Rent?:, judge.
Helen Gillespie, Madeline Dale, 
Emily Fulton, jury.
CONNECTICUT CLAN
Once more the Connecticut Clan 
had one of their real meetings and 
started on a new ’ program schedule. 
We had dinner in the Lingston Cof­
fee Shoppe, on the fourteenth floor 
of the Hartford, Connecticut. Trust 
Biiilding, so that when we finished 
we really felt as though we were on 
top of the world.
This was the’first of a series of 
jneeting where we hope >o learn 
what the other fellow is doing, and 
Mr. E. D. Lambert, who is now de­
signer at the Underwood Typewriter 
Company, started the keys going by 
telling us how typewriters are made. 
His talk was confined to the type­
writers and not the operators.
From typewriters we went to tur­
bines, and Mr. I.' C.-Fogg,. Production 
Manager at the Terry Steam Turbine 
Company, told us how they juggled 
turbines around.
Dielc Arnold brought the evening 
to a climax when he—or was it 
somebody else—calmly announced 
that he was stepping off into mar­
ried life on March 14.
There were not as many present as 
there usually are but it was certain­
ly a worth while meeting.
IN BERKELEY CALIF.
Since tho first meeting, December 
G, we have had the following meet­
ings:
On January 17, we met at the home 
of Mrs. Wharton in Richmond, at 
which time thoro were fourteen Car- 
negio Clansmen present.
The last meeting was hold at 'my 
own rooms, at which time there wore 
four tables of Bridge in play and 
prizes woro awarded Mr. Stark, Mrs. 
Nichols, Mr. Brown and Mr. Nichols.
Tho next meeting will bo a Din­
ner Danco at tho olalrmont Hotel in 
Berkeley on Saturday, March 21, at 
7:30 o'clock.
Slowly but Burely Campus Week 
plane are assuming a more tangible 
aspect and are tending more and 
mure toward making thl» week one 
which will be of prime Importance 
to the alumni. The alumni luncheon, 
which will be held at one o’clock on 
Saturday, May 16, is to attain pro­
portions never before attempted, and 
the Country Fair, held for the first 
time last year, will have a series of 
exhibits presentod by the different 
CJans.
Contrary to the custom of former! 
years, the alumni luncheon will not j 
be held on the campus, but at a| 
downtown hotel. Much better accom-1 
modaiions can be obtained in this j 
way and a larger crowd can be j 
taken care of. In fact, to insure | 
that none of the alumni will miss j 
the affair due to crowded street cars I 
or lack of automobiles after having j 
passed a glorious morning on the 
campus, the committee Is arranging 
to have "Bus’' service to the hotel. 
This will eliminate the greatest ob­
jection to having the luncheon away 
i from school, and will enable every­
one to attend the banquet.
So far, the toastmaster has not 
been chosen, nor the speakers, and ( 
tn-K is a problem in the solving of j 
which the committee earnestly solic-' 
its the help of the alumni. It is de­
sired that the speeches will be made 
by men who are known to all the 
alumni, thus serving to make the 
banquet more nearly a reunion of 
• the old “Grads." Any suggestions 
or assistance which any of the 
Clans or individual alumni have to 
offer In regard to this part of the 
program will be most sincerely ap­
preciated.
Another feature to whioh the at-1 
tendance of the Clans is called is | 
the, preparing of a stunt to be pre- J 
sented by each of them at the Coun­
try Fair. Those who attended tbe 
fair last year will agree that it was j 
quite successful and that it merited , 
a permanent pluce on the program j 
Campus Week events. It is planned I 
that the alumni will plan an impor­
tant pait in "putting it across’’ this 
year, and each of the Clans is re­
quested to decide as soon as possi­
ble what their stunt will be and to 
report to the Alumni Office.
This is not merely a suggestion: 
it is a request, for Campus Week 
is pre-eminently an. alumni Institu­
tion, and it is only through their co­
operation that it can possibly be suc­
cessful. Any suggestions in regard 
to any phase of Campus Week will 
be gladly received and will assist 
Lhe committee to plan tho eyents 
to more nearly approach the desires 
of the alumni.
DEPARTMENT OF FINE
PRINTING RAPIDLY GAINING 
WORLD-WIDE RECOGNITION
(Continued Prom Page One.) 
higher and his audience would have 
lied.
"Mr. Garnett Is a Native Son. He 
contributed to "The -Lark" in its 
purple cow days; 'edited "Le Petit 
Journal des Refusees"; wrote dra­
matic and musical criticism; pro­
duced the midsummer plays of the 
Bohemian Club, and wrote one of 
the plays himself. There is a story 
that before one of them was pro­
duced Mr. Garnett confided to his in­
timates that the piece was over the 
heads of the crowd and that he 
Would bo ¦chagrined if they under­
stood it. Ho was not disappointed.
"A few years ago, what does this 
Californian of Californians do but 
pull up stakes and move—of all 
places!—to Pittsburgh. Snioke and 
soot for the crystal breath of the 
Sierras; factory chimneys for red­
woods; Boeotian steel magnates for 
Pacific Coast neo-Greeks! '
"Among the avocations of this de­
votee of the arts had been the cult 
j of printing—fine printing, typography 
carried to a point at which it, too, 
becomes an art. In 1919 he began 
to make a profession of the design­
ing and supervising of fine printing, 
and in 1922 became assistant pro­
fessor of graphic arts at the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology in Pitts­
burgh, and established there what is 
known as tho Laboratory Press.
"Tho Laboratory Press is said to 
bo the first of its kind—a private 
press doyotod to encouraging tho art 
of flno printing. They teach ovory- 
day printing at tho Carnogio Insti­
tute, along with various other tooh 
nlcul things, but the laboratory la 
something dllToront and intended for’ 
tho minority who want to find in 
printing something moro than a 
moro means of earning a livelihood.
'"There aro lectures and confer­
ences and experimental studies 
similar to those made by art sclioo1 
students under the oye of some mas­
ter painter. Tho students are sur­
rounded by examples of fine print­
ing done in tho days when typo­
graphy was not so far away as it 
is now from the time when all bookhEleanor McCann, parade marshall.
The rules and regulations for the '| were lettered and done illuminated by 
costumes and the parade will be is-. hand. Examples of the work in thoep 
sued next week. A meeting of the j days, leather-bound tomes printed in 
entire committee will be held in the I Latin, early English, French or Ger- 
Student Council Office next Tues- \ man, are as much a part of the fur- 
day at 12:30 a, m* nitui*e of the laboratory as an art
school’s Parthenon frieze or bits of 
Greek sculpture. The director selects 
bits of prose which have a certain 
unity and completeness and a beau­
ty or vitality which in itself suggests 
the manner in which they should be 
set up and arranged, and lets the 
student design a specimen page. 1-Ie 
selects the type, Betties such mat­
ters as margins and spacing, designs 
initial letters, decides whether this' 
part or that part shall bo accented 
by a different stylo of type, and so 
When these specimen pages— 
student studies, so to speak—are fin­
ished and printed, examples are, 
struck off (by hand press, of course) 
and sent to persons who understand 
and value such things.
In memory of Joseph Conrad, for 
example, such a page was recently 
printed—the text an excerpt from 
that essay of Conrad’B in which, in 
speaking of the art of sailing ships, 
he discourses on craftsmanship and 
speaks of "that something beyond— 
a higher point, a subtle and unmis­
takable touch of love and pride be­
yond mere skill," which is, in fact, 
the aim of the Laboratory Press it­
self.
“It must have interested foreign­
ers to whom this tribute to a good 
craftsman was sent to receive such 
an orchid from out the smoke of 
Pittsburgh. They may have smiled 
slightly as they examined the labor­
atory’s emblem, with its “Nil 
vulgare, nil pertriti, nil in- 
epti” round three sides of 
a rectangle and “Pittsburgh” on 
the fourth, and one fancies that in 
arranging that juxtaposition the one­
time contributor to “The Lark" may 
have smiled himself.' It is interest­
ing to have an industry so precious 
added to those which» have made the 
fame of that smoky town, and a good 
thing for all of us, swirling in and 
guzzling floods of print as we are, that 
somebody is still working at printing 
as an art.
(By Professor C. C. Leeds)
"What constitutes the proper train­
ing for an industrial executive in the 
metal working industries?"
This question was given to an in­
telligent body of men for their seri­
ous consideration, and, after more 
than a year of study and delibera­
tion, the present curriculum of the 
Machinery Production Course was ac­
cepted as their answer.
This course is planned to give a 
thorough grounding in the principles 
of management as applied to produc­
tion, operation and distribution in the 
metal working industries. The sub­
ject matter of Instruction is a blend­
ing of engineering, liberal arts and 
industrial subjects, the latter fur­
nishing a sound knowledge of indus­
trial methods as a background for 
the course.
This type of education makes a 
strong appeal to those young men 
who are interested in the various 
phases of management in the metal 
working field, young men who are in­
terested in the production and distri­
bution processes and who have the 
vision to perceive that the most di­
rect route to an executive position 
in this field is through the shops.
In order to merit rapid promotion 
in the plant, a young man must be 
familiar with general production 
methods in his chosen field; this 
necessitates a working knowledge of 
the various types of machines which 
form the equipment of the plant. He 
must know his fellow man and have 
made a study of the subject of hand­
ling men. He must be familiar with 
the principles of management wheth­
er applied to the personnel or to the 
processes of production. He must be 
able to express bimBelf clearly and 
logicallj', both orally and by means 
of written reports.
The preparation for our future in­
dustrial executive should* give him 
the systematic, accurate habit of 
mind of tbe engineer, the broad out­
look and the power of logical rea­
soning of the liberal arts college 
man, and a thorough grounding in 
the principles of production process­
es, gained from long study in the 
shops of his college and in the local 
plants of this district.
As an industrial executive must 
deal with engineers, chemists, and 
accountants he needs a broad general 
knowledge of certain forms of engi­
neering of chemistry and of cost find­
ing methods.'
An industrial executive to be real­
ly successful should tie a man of ex­
cellent character and impress his as­
sociates with the feeling that he is 
considerate and fair in all his deal­
ings. Owing to the character of the 
education given Machinery Produc­
tion students, they are in a position 
to win the respect and confidence of 
the workmen and as a consequence 
have a distinct advantage in main­
taining harmonious relations be-
; tween the management and the em- 
j ployees.
i The demand for young men who 
I are the potential industrial execu- 
j tives of the future is so pressing that 
j the personnel representatives of 
i large manufacturing corporations de­
vote a great deal of their time in 
j seeking out and interviewing these 
young men. As an illustration, the re­
presentatives of eight large corpora­
tions came to Carnegie last spring 
to interview the Senior Class of tbe 
Machinery Production Department.
In closing we desire to quote Mr. 
John Hays Hammond, an engineer 
with an international reputation, who 
discusses the training and functions 
of managers in the October issue of 
Management: , "There should, of 
course, be the closest possible con­
tact between the employees, both in­
dividually and collectively, and the 
management of an industry, and 
every effort should be made to de­
velop out of tho industry itself the 
future* executives and leaders."
“Managers are not born, they are 
made. It is now a commonplace in 
productive enterprises that the art or 
science of management has been sad­
ly neglected; and yet it is as vitally 
important as it is that employees 
should have the proper trade or in­
dustrial education.”
‘CARNEGIE SPIRIT” IS 
BEING SHOWN IN N. Y.
On the evening of March 29, six 
Carnegie grads now at the General 
Electric Works, Schenectady, gath­
ered for the purpose of talking over 
school days. After downing a good 
steak supper with plenty of discussion 
the party went to a theater. With 
the exception of the earthquake that 
interrupted the show twice, we are 
all looking forward to another gath­
ering with more present.
Those present were Faust, ’21; F. 
O. Stebbins, ’22; T. W. Copeland, 
’23; J. G. Ritz, ’23;; H. G. Kost, ’23; 
and A. C. Murr, '24.
If there are any fellows in Troy 
or Albany who would care to join us 
in our next gathering I would be hap­
py to hear from them.
UNION PROVES POPULAR
FOR GENERAL ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One.) 
the numbers which proved such a 
hit on the musical club’s last trip.
The inimitable Herb Polesie pre­
sented one of his inventions in 
Dramatic Art; namely a little stunt 
entitled “What About the Others”. 
It was a riotous farce on college life.
If all future General Assemblies 
are up to the standard of this one, 
they will. prove to bo a wonderful 
benefit to Carnegie.
Sixth, Liberty and Penn
Lhe Ugofon c” Ugfolrnoie 
OcnusNe ol nhe Oet Uhce-
Because youth, vivacity and 
Springtime are the same—the 
new shoes arriving daily express 
a spirit chic and charming found 
at' no other time of year. Prices 
are moderately low!
The first example is a Tan Russia Step-In 
Pump with welt sole, Cuban heel and over- 
gored front with neat buckle. Also in Pat­
ent Colt. $9.00.
The next is a Gunmetal Calf Step-In Pump. 
A semi-dress effect, with gored front cover­
ed by black metal inlaid buckle. Has turn 
sole and Cuban heeL Also shown in Pat­
ent Colt $10.00.
Third is a Tan Russia Calf Pump in narrow 
one-strap effect with high Spanish heel and 
popular modified vamp. $6.50.
Charming is this All-Patent One-Strap 
Pump—a semi-dress effect with turn sole, 
low heel and effective cut-out work at the 
side. $9.00.
—The Rosenbaum Shoe Store, Third Floor.
HIGH TENORS ASKED TO EN- 
ROLL IN BACH CHORUS MON.
(Continued From Page Ono) 
tata by Bach has recently been start­
ed, and ia a very interesting work. 
It offers a splendid chanco for devel­
oping reading ability, because if ono 
can sing Bach, anything else is also 
within grasp.
The tenors who aro Tw badly need­
ed to make this Bach Chorus more 
of a success, are ^present somewhere 
among all the men in the three col­
leges, and are urged to attend a re­
hearsal of the group on Monday af­
ternoon at 3:30, in room 160 in the 
College of Fine Arts. Any person de­
siring to enroll, or who desires to se­
cure further details, can call at the 
office of Miss Lawton, Curator of the 
Department of Music in room 150 of 
the College of Fine Arts.
WittYour Children and Theirs go to College?
Do You Know
— thnt Brown goes back to his 
twentieth reunion this spring, and that he has just taken 
out educational insurance?
To this day he doesn't know 
which parent or aunt or uncle1 
paid most of his school and 
coIleRe bills. But he docs know 
that he can never repay those 
obligations created, except by insuring ample money for the 
education of his own two children.
So he has recently arranged en­
dowment policies for both, to
mature at the beginning of each school and college year. 
He believes that his children 
will moregenuinely appreciate their education by pnying for 
it out of their own funds.
And Brown also believes that 
they will better capitalize their 
own increased capabilities, on 
or before graduation, by tak­ing out insurance for the edu­
cation of the next hoped-for 
generation, as well as to create 
an immediate estate and finan­cial guarantee of family unity.
The John Hancock Is txmicularly interested in injuring college men end uxjmen and in obtaining college graduates forthe personnel of the field staff.
Over Sixty Years in 
Business. Nowlnsuring 
Over Two Billion Dol­
lars on 3,500,000 LivesTour sDivnWDar hgtSWDqe,N' or Bo FOL ,C H2FF20,EFUOOF
