PIRG
Retail Food, 
Pollution To 
Be Studied
by Shelley Burhans
Although the Public Interest Research 
Group on the CMU campus is not as yet 
completely mobilized, two PIRG-related 
projects have already been initiated on this 
campus.
Professor David Coss, of the School of 
Urban and Public Affairs, has undertaken a 
project with students involving the com­
parison of store prices in various areas of 
Pittsburgh. Their goal is to determine the 
differences, and answers to crucial ques­
tions, such as, “Do store prices rise in cer­
tain areas upon the receipt of welfare 
checks?”
Professor Geisel, of the School of Ad­
ministration and Management Science, is 
planning a research project, with students, 
concerning air pollution, with the intent of 
eventually standardizing nationwide air 
pollution indices.
PIRG, which already boasts existant, ef­
fective firms statewide in Oregon, Vermont 
and Minnesota, as well as efforts to mobi­
lize support by student groups in Califor­
nia, Texas, Georgia and Illinois, is an effort 
to build “bases of real student power” in 
issues of constructive social change. The 
organization’s goal transcends the imme­
diate aim, of social change, with its aim 
toward simultaneously developing perma­
nent instruments of change.
The structural idea of PIRG is congru­
ent with this aim, as well as with the fur­
ther aim of actualizing the learning experi­
ence and ideals of the student. The organi­
zational structure rests in control by a bo­
dy of students, with an elected student 
Board of Directors, who undertake to fi­
nance and direct full-time professionals. 
These professionals, working with students, 
will provide the expertise necessary to ef­
fect action in the public interest, the sub­
ject and emphasis of which is to be decided 
by the students.
Social and environmental ills are PIRG’s 
target, such as air, land and water pollution 
by corporate industries, race and sex dis­
crimination, job and housing shortage, ten­
ant rights, the need for consumer protec­
tion, inadequate education for migrants 
and the urban poor, student rights, and the 
problem of what Nader calls “the aridity 
and seeming irrelevance of student course 
work.” Lawyers, ecologists, scientists and 
other professionals can and have been in­
strumental to PIRG groups as a means to 
gathering the most thorough background in 
the facts of individual problems possible, 
and consequently instituting constructive 
change.
Oregon PIRGs have been active in insti­
tuting educational programs, internships 
for students, and in ocrrecting local prob- 
continued on page 5
Professor Dies 
In Accident
Stephen Sales, an Assistant Professor of 
Industrial Administration and Psychology 
at C-MU, was killed Sunday, October 8 in a 
freak accident involving an aluminum boat 
and high tension electrical wires.
Dr. Sales was a Yale graduate with a 
Masters in Psychology' from Cornell and a 
Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. 
Before teaching at Carnegie-Mellon he was 
on the staff at both Cornell and Michigan.
Dr. Sales was 32. He is survived by a 
wife and one child.
by Shelley Burhans
Tries To Organize
Board Chrmn.
Indecisive
On PIRG $
Mr. Fred Foy, formerly of Koppers Co., 
Inc., Chairman of the CMU Board of Trus­
tees, recently made a statement concerning 
the inclusion of an optional $2 for PIRG 
(Public Interest Research Group) on CMU 
semester bills. This summer’s decision, said 
Foy, was that “any student who wanted to 
pay the $2 was welcome to so indicate 
when paying his bill.” He further said, “We 
received no such indications to my 
knowledge.”
PIRG, which banks on student support 
and funding for its cooperative stu­
dent/professional social project efforts, has 
been the subject of much “silent” contro­
versy at CMU, as well as on other Pitts­
burgh campuses. Last year, petitioning at 
CMU and Pitt resulted in well over half of 
the signatures of each student body, and 
widespread approval of the CMU faculty in 
favor of the $2 addition to the bills.
At Pitt, the proposal went before the 
Board of Trustees, and was defeated. “Cer­
tain Board members, whose industries con­
stitute significant financial support to both 
Pitt and CMU, threatened to withdraw 
their support for feduciary reasons,” claims 
CMU PIRG head, Steve Rubinstein.
Edward Schatz, then the outgoing presi­
dent of CMU, did “Not want the responsi­
bility of the bill.” This left PIRG’s next 
step to be the proposal of the bill to the 
Board of Trustees. Rubinstein feels that 
the proposal “was not taken seriuosly e- 
nough.” He indicated that he thought this 
might be related to the fact that, “The 
majority of the members of the Board of 
Trustees are corporate heads, and none are 
educators, with the exception of President 
Cyert.”
In response to questions as to his view 
of PIRG, generally and on this campus, Mr. 
Foy replied that he “didn’t really know 
much about it,” and “didn’t recall hearing 
much about it.” When informed of the 
objectives of the group and given problems 
which PIRG is concerned with: industrial 
pollution, housing and job shortage, and 
race and sex discrimination, he said, “I 
have no basic disagreement with any group 
continued on page 5$5 Rise In Student Fee Tabled by SS
After heated debate Student Senate 
tabled until October 24th a motion to in­
crease the present activities fee from $10 
to $15 per semester. Until now Student 
Government has received $10 from the ad­
ministration for each full time day student, 
this made the effective tuition $1240. This 
money is used to fund the Activities Borad, 
the Tartan, WRCT, and other campus or­
ganizations. President Cyert has suggested 
that the activities fee be billed separately 
from the tuition so that the Student 
Government Corporation may become an 
autonomous institution.
The original motion proposed, and the 
one favored by President Cyert, would 
have tacked on a $15 activities fee to the 
$1250. This would have resulted in a tui­
tion increase from $1240 to $1250. The 
motion was then amended to keep tuitior 
constant at $1240 and raise the fee to $15.
continued on page 13
C-MU PIRG Chairman, Steve Rubinstien photo by Elliot Arons
October 17, 1972 Volume 73 Number 6Bookstore Rebates To Start Nov. 27A decision concerning the payment of 
the five percent rebate on text books pur­
chased at the Bookstore during fall semes­
ter has been reached.
Rebates will be paid to students be­
ginning immediately after the Thanksgiving 
recess November 27 and continuing 
through December 15, just prior to the 
Christmas recess. By setting the time for 
rebate at the end of the semester, the 
money due each student will be paid in one 
sum for all text books he or she has pur­
chased during the fall semester. “This will 
simplify matters for both students and the 
Bookstore,” says Bookstore manager
C.S. Floyd.
In compliance with a recommendation 
of the Student Senate the Administration 
has agreed that the unclaimed portion of 
the five per cent rebate on text books shall 
be returned to the students via the student 
activities account.
The procedure by which rebates will be 
issued is being decided upon, and details 
will be published in the TARTAN and the 
Bookstore well in advance of the rebate 
period. As previously stated, it is important 
that students retain all their text book cash 
register receipts in order to take advantage 
of the rebate.Fechtor Wins $1M 
With S'nS' Show
A musical production written and di­
rected by a CMU senior has been selected 
by BMI (Broadcast Music, Inc.) as the Out­
standing Varsity Show of the year.
Stephen M. Fechtor received the award
for “A New Day,” produced last April by 
the Scotch ‘n’ Soda organization of CMU. 
This marks the second time in the past 
three years that a CMU production has 
taken first place in the competition spon­
sored by BMI, the performing rights licen­
sing organization.
A cash award of $1,000 was made to 
the writer of the show Wednesday, October
11 at BMI offices in New York. BMI 
officials will also present a check for $500 
to Scotch ‘n’ Soda, the sponsoring organi­
zation.
Fechtor is a student in the College of 
Humanities and Social Science, following a 
self-defined major in pre-law. He was a cast 
member of the Scotch ‘n’ Soda production, 
“Something Personal,” which received the 
BMI award in 1970, has worked on a num­
ber of the group’s other productions, and is 
presently working on the book, music, and 
lyrics for Lord Have Mercy,” to be pro­
duced by Scotch ‘n’ Soda in April 1973.
As part of Houghton Mifflin Publishing 
Company’s INTERACTION series, Fechtor 
has also composed songs for characters in 
Homer’s Odyssey. The series of books and
Stephen Fechtor P^oto by Bruce Edelston
records are to be published and recorded 
next year for use in high school classes.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
editors note
The presidential election of 1972 once again gives us “a choice, not 
an echo”.
The difference between candidates is best seen not in individual 
issues but in overall attitudes and philosophy. These are fundamental 
differences.
Why are we in Vietnam? The answer is as complex as the 
bureaucratic labyrinthine forces that got us there and keep us there, but 
Vietnam was no mistake; it fits perfectly in the pattern of U.S. policy over 
two decades. The only aberration was that the Indo China adventure was 
not completed covertly, as were those in Guatemala, Iraq, and others, or 
quickly as in the Dominican Republic and others.
Since Richard Nixon took office (having promised a “secret” peace 
plan in 1968), in addition to over 20,000 American dead and over 
100,000 wounded and permanently mained, the war has widened, the 
bombing has increased beyond anything known in the world’s history, and 
over 4 million Indo-Chinese have been killed or made homeless in a 
deliberate attempt to depopulate the countryside. That strategy would 
continue, for while reducing troops Nixon has increased air power, all to 
buttress a puppet dictator and save Indo-China for American Business.
George McGovern has consistently opposed the war and the 
bombing, and has pledged to halt the war immediately. Further, he has 
pledged to withdraw military support from dictatorships such as that in 
Greece. No more would the U.S. be in the business of overthrowing 
popular but nationalist governments, or annihilating in mass innocent 
peasant populations.
Domestically, Richard Nixon has shown no concern for the dignity 
of the average individual. Despite the fact that unemployment increased 
almost 60 percent during his term, Nixon vetoed several manpower 
training and public employment bills. But he also frequently condemned 
those on welfare, which he attempted to decrease despite rising living 
costs.
George McGovern recognizes the dilemna of those for whom there 
are no jobs, and would work to secure dignified jobs for all, and an 
adequate living for any not so provided. McGovern cares for individual 
people, not masses of voters.
George McGovern has already sponsored legislation to study 
conversion of military manufacturing to a peace economy. Nixon is 
content to allow our dependence on a war economy to grow (the arms 
limitation pact he signed actually encourages development and 
procurement of new weapons).
McGovern sides with working people against the tax breaks for, and 
rule of Washington by, the wealthy and the powerful corporations. The 
current flagrantly loop holed tax structure and the ITT and wheat affairs 
are only indicative of the current administration’s workings. (The 
administration also supported the powerful California farm interests in 
their battle against farm workers with massive procurements of grapes and 
lettuce.)
The choice lies between the Politics of the Rich and Powerful, the 
Politics of Opportunism, using espionage, secret police and phony criminal 
accusations, the Politics of Deceit, the Demagoguery of Hate, inflaming 
ignorance and prejudice, and the Politics of Respect, Honesty, and 
Dignity.
The TARTAN, with the concurrence of it’s staff, endorses George 
McGovern for President.
Steve Jurman
Editor in Chief......................Steve Jurman
Special Editor...........................Mina Gerall
News Editor.................................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ...............................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhaus 
Greg Fulton, Stacy Kimble
Features Editor ........................Dave Guida
Features Staff......................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor......................... Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel 
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins 
Rick Werme, Nick Lardis 
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette 
Frank Stein, Andrea Friedman
"TAKE SOME OF THESE} WHEN You FEEL A SENSITIVE SPOT, LEAN TO THE RIGHT; 
AND CALL ME WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER ____________Letters:
Editor:
During the weekend of September 
29-30, a fellow resident of Henderson Hall 
had two bicycles stolen from him. Further­
more, as a source in Security told the vic­
tim, Jeff Dimitz, some 16 bicycle thefts 
had been reported to Security that week­
end alone.
When I attempted to get some com­
ments from Ron Taylor about the theft, 
however, 1 was told that no such “big 
haul” had been reported; and Taylor stuck 
to this story even though, or perhaps be­
cause, I was working on a Tartan article 
about the crime.
One must therefore wonder which job 
Taylor is working harder at, stopping the 
crimes from occurring (where are the new 
bike racks?) or simply trying to keep the 
campus community from realizing the mag­
nitude of the losses of property on campus.
Editor;
Last Wednesday morning I read the 
TARTAN to find out that I was no longer 
a student member of the H&SS College 
Council. This was a surprise to me, since 
when I left CMU last May I was an elected 
member. I knew that the number of stu­
dent members was going to be cut because 
the Council was growing too large, but I 
can recall no decision or vote as to when or 
how. I don’t know who made the decision, 
but I think I should at least have been 
notified in time to inform the Student 
Senate that 1 would have liked to have 
been considered for appointment to the 
Council until the spring elections.
Christine Visminas
Henry Collins
Commentary
Corruption In Pseudodom
Entertainment Editor . . Steve Saunders 
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Cay wood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr, 
Stephen Hamm
Business Manager..................Alice Bright
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout...................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff .................................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published every Tuesday during the aca­
demic year at Carnegie-Meilon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie- 
Meilon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
by Jim Slivka
During that fabled year when Sir George 
the Reformer challenged Richard I for the 
Monarchy of Ego, a devious plot unfolded 
at the castle of the Commonfolk, Port- 
cullus Aqua.
The incident involved the spying by 
compatriots of the Loyalists for the Preser­
vation of the Throne, some of whom were 
ex-members of the Inquisition of the Mon­
archy of Ego, which was responsible for 
safe-guarding the internal security of the 
land. The rascals who were captured by 
sentries were in the process of removing 
their tools of espionage. It was found that 
the rascals stole the contents of confiden­
tial Commonfolk documents. Larry the 
Red, the leader of the George for Monarch 
League, charged that an abominable act of 
political espoinage had occured at the Port- 
cullus Aqua. Larry also alluded to the fact 
that high ranking officers in the King’s 
Court were involved in the dastardly plot 
against the Commonfolk.
The House of Goldandsilver thrice de­
nied this. It seemed strange, however, that 
several Goldandsilvermen had resigned 
from the Loyalists for the Preservation of 
the Throne shortly before and soon after 
this plot was unveiled, among them John 
of Martha who quit the organization under 
mysterious circumstances and whose wife, 
Mouth, was silenced.
The Commonfolk, hoping for a speedy 
trial, supposedly granted them by the Mag­
na Carta of Ego, met much frustration in 
the courts. Their position was quite ridicu­
lous as they had to rely upon the Minister 
of Jusitce in the King’s Court, a member of 
the House of Goldandsilver, to bring legal 
action against those who were employees 
of the Loyalists for the Preservation of the 
Throne, and were, coincidentally, also of 
the House of Goldandsilver. As a result, the 
dung screen shielded the. citizenery of Ego 
from absorbing the severe and earthchaking 
ramifications of this incident. It was 
charged by Sir George, Larry the Red, Ed­
ward of Hyannis, and others, that the Ego 
inhabitants were prevented from finding 
out what truly occurred and who was 
responsible.
Yet, as with the strife in the Land of 
Ho, the Portcullus Aqua incident, and 
others charged by Sir George to an admin­
istration most corrupt, Richard I and his 
cohorts appeared to have effectively man­
ipulated the thinking of the citizens so that 
they were oblivious to reality- long be the 
reign of the King?
The Ego citizenry, it was charged, 
would never find out how the rascals got 
over the moat surrounding the Portculluc 
Aqua, why, or for whom.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 17, 1972—Page 3
Commentary
Election Preview: State Legislature
by Jim Slivka
This is the first of several election symposiums the TARTAN will run. In order 
for the CMU electorate to become aware of the stands on the issues by candidates 
running in the districts which encompass the campus, the TARTAN posed several 
questions to the candidates. The following column has the responses of Dr. Ivan Itkin 
and Mr. Bernard Markovitz, both of whom are seeking the 23rd legislative seat being 
vacated by Gerald Kaufmann (D-Squirrel Hill). It should be noted that the following 
responses may be geared to the college community and are unaltered and unabridged.
Dr. Ivan Itkin (D), Nuclear scientist; Ap­
plied Mathematician. Married, two child­
ren. Age: 35. Education: Polytechnic Insti­
tute of Brooklyn, B.Ch.E., 1956; New 
York University, M.Nuc.E., 1957; Universi­
ty of Pittsburgh, Ph.D. (Math), 1964. Previ­
ous political offices held: Judge of Elec­
tions (19th Dist.); 14th Ward Democratic 
Chairman, City of Pittsburgh.
Member: Coalition ‘71 (Chairman);
14th Ward Civic Assn. (director); Group 
Against Smog and Pollution (GASP); A- 
merican Nuclear Society; American Jewish 
'Congress; 14th Ward Democratic Club.
Bernard Markovitz (R), Lawyer. Mar­
ried. Age: 32. Education: Westminster Col­
lege, 1962; Duquesne University Law 
School, 1965. Served on Executive Board, 
14th Ward Republican Committee; Asst. 
District Attorney from Allegheny Co.; 
presently serving as Asst. Solicitor, School 
District of Pittsburgh; Appointed by Gov­
ernors Shafer and Shapp to Penna. Crime 
Commission.
Military Service: U.S. Navy (Lieut.) 
1967-70; in reserves as of present. Member: 
Jewish War Vets; American Legion; Y.M. & 
W.H. Assn.; Young Lawyers of Allegheny 
Co,; Bar Assn. (Executive Committee; 
Criminal Court Bail Reform Committee). 
Legal advisor for out-patient Drug Clinic.
1) What are your feelings on the reinstitution of the death penalty: are 
you in favor of it and why or why not?
No, I don’t believe the death penalty 
deters capital crimes. Also, the U.S. Su­
preme Court has declared that the death 
penalty, as prescribed by present state sta­
tutes, si unconstitutional. I would seriously 
question the constitutionality of any new 
law imposing the death penalty, for I be­
lieve execution is a cruel and unnecessary 
punishment.
As an Assistant District Attorney, I had 
the dubious opportunity to ask a jury to 
return a death verdict. To this day I get a 
chill up my back when I recall how close 
they came to granting my request. Howev­
er, there are specific instances when I feel 
the death penalty is necessary. An example 
of such an instance would be when a mur­
derer has previously been convicted of first 
degree murder and has been sentenced to a 
life without commutation. In the event he 
murders again, society has the choice of 
either putting him to death or giving him a 
Carte Blanche to kill anyone and anytime 
he has an opportunity.
2) Do you favor the lowering of the drinking age to 18?
Yes. Many states have for a long time 
permitted 18 year olds to drink without 
adverse effects. To confer upon 18 year 
olds the status and responsibilities of adult­
hood, but deny them the privilege to drink 
is hypocrisy.
Yes. The leading scientists have had an 
opportunity to study the effects of ti.e use 
of alcohol and generally agree that if used 
in moderation it will cause no physical or 
mental harm to the user. I feel todays 18 
year old is mature enough to deal with 
alcohol in a temperant manner.
3) Do you favor the legalization of marijuana? What are your views on this 
subject?
No. I feel that the penalties for posses­
sion of marijuana should be reduced, but 
they should not be eliminated entirely un­
til we have sufficient proof that the use of 
marijuana is not a threat to the public 
health.
The leading scientific papers discussing 
the possible harmful effects of the use of 
marijuana are in disagreement. Some say 
that its chemical content has a building 
effoct in the body tissues similar to that of 
DDT. This process is said to cause damage 
to the cells of the brain. Others disagree 
saying the effects of marijuana are 
euphoric and temporary. Unless and until 
this question is decided 1 would not favor 
the legalization of marijuana.
4) Do you believe in the institution of rules making it easier for minority 
groups to become integrated into the basic mainstream of the institutions 
of our society ?
Yes. Yes. There must be rules and regulations
assuring minority groups an equal 
opportunity to live, compete and be 
integrated into our society. If an indivi­
dual, because he is economically or socially 
deprived, starts at a disadvantage, I favor 
programs which will educate and train him. 
I feel it is better to help a man help himself 
than carry another generation on our 
welfare rolls.
5) What are your feelings toward the PHEAA program? Do you feel such I grants should include an inflation clause? How do you feel about the 
} overall crisis of higher education causing many universities to consider 
| dosing or becoming state-related?
Yes, the PHEAA grants should include 
|an inflation clause.
The spiralling costs of maintaining insti­
tutions of higher learning in the Common- 
|wealth is a very serious problem. We can- 
lot allow our educational facilities to close
Generally I approve of the program. 
However, I do not feel that the 64.5 mil­
lion dollars which has been allocated out of 
a 3.6 billion dollar state budget is a fair 
share for higher education. In addition the 
scholarship aspects of the program should
for lack of funds.
Nevertheless, I do not feel that state­
relatedness is the best solution to the prob­
lem. Requests for state funding for the 
next fiscal year from the present three 
state related universities (Pitt, Penn State, 
and Temple) will probably exceed $130 
million.
I believe a better way to finance higher 
education is through a program like the 
“Yale deferred tuition plan”. Under such a 
•program, the student would pay only that 
protion of the tuition which he can afford, 
the rest being paid out of a revolving fund.
After leaving school, the student would 
repay the fund in installments depending 
upon the size of his income. In this way, 
the fund can ultimately become self-revol- 
ving with the money coming in from past 
debts being used to pay the costs of new 
loans.
6) How do you feel about the abortion issue?
not withhold from students attending part 
time strictly because they attend part time. 
There is a good possibility that some stu­
dents cannot afford to attend full time.
The programs are funded yearly and the 
inflation problem can be handled using the 
true figures as opposed to approximates.
It is inconceivable that we will allow 
universities to close becuase of the finan­
cial crisis and when elected education shall 
be my first priority. As a graduate of a 
private college and as an opponent of big 
government I feel there is a definite advan­
tage to having some segment of our system 
of university to not be state related.
I favor legalizing medically-safe abor­
tion. I do not believe a woman wishes to 
have an abortion just for the sake of having 
an abortion. Consequently, I feel that the 
emphasis on this entire issue has been mis­
directed. Our major concern should not be 
whether or not to permit abortions, but 
rather the prevention of unwanted preg­
nancies. If we can accomplish this goal, 
then abortion will no longer be an issue.
The sole candidate for the 34th Senator­
ial seat, Sen. Frank Mazzei (D-Southside) 
was also sent a questionnaire by the TAR­
TAN but as you can notice by the above 
column, it appears that CMU is unimpor­
tant to Frank Mazzei and that should be 
remembered November 7, 1972.
On June 22, 1972, a bill was enacted 
into law dealing directly with the abortion 
issue. Therefore, practically speaking, the 
Legislature has spoken and this issue has 
been determined. Anyone who promises 
that he will change this law in the immedi­
ate future is either naive or not truly 
speaking his mind. I do feel this Act is 
overly restrictive and pledge to offer 
amendments thereto which may be neces­
sary to save the life and/or health of the 
mother.
Fall Campaign Issues Forum*FALL CAMPAIGN ISSUES FORUM 4
Tuesday, October 17 7 pm Skibo Ballroom
BUSING - ITS POLITICAL, SOCIAL, AND EDUCATIONAL IMPLICATIONS
THOMAS KERR:
DAVID MELTZ:
IRENE McCABE
TIM STEVENS:
Mr. Kerr is a well known Pittsburgh attorney. He 
is currently Head of the Department of Administra­
tion and Management Science at Carnegie-Meilon 
and lecturer in the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration.
Dr. Meltz is Professor of Political Science at 
Michigan State University. He has written widely 
on the socio-economic implications of busing for 
racial balance.
Ms. McCabe has served as President of
the National Action Group in Pontiac
and led the march from that city to Washington.
Mr. Stevens is Executive Director of the Pittsburgh 
Chapter, NAACP.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
his is your invito t ion to rnceive the new 1972- 
73 THREE RIVERS PASS BOOK. It con.es f/om the 
people who offer greot rcstouront dining, corry-out 
meals and snacks, music, dancing, films, lodo '-g, 
ploys, special events, basketball, bowling, skiing, 
skating, golf, and dozens of other fun things to do.
They wont you to fry the good times this 1own 
hcs to offer, so they are offering you complimen­
tary passes to just obout every kind of entertain­
ment, recreation, and dining in the Pittsburgh area.
The new THREE RIVERS PASS BOOK reall/ gets 
it all together for you ... It's great if you date .. „ 
It's fantastic family fun.
It's a grrat way to put more life in your M® ... 
More fine food . . . More fun . . . More emfrw^nt. 
2ie are over 400 passes to fine restaurants, tun 
tnurants, games, spoils, and ten rational ochvt- 
<. tor M'mi, Oid, and the kids. And he»e’s the best 
port .. . you still stay within your budget. Because
once-you’ve used just 5 or 6 of your posses, you'll 
already have saved more than the price you poid 
for the entire Pass Book. Altogether it's over SI000 
worth of fun, food, and good times for the whole 
family. And it's ail yours for ju:t $15. And what's 
more, this year, for the first time, you receive a 
complimentary membership in Pittsburgh's newest 
social club — the THREE RIVERS SOCIETY FOR THE 
PROMOTION AND ENJOYMENT OF LEISURE 
TIME. This entitles all members and their guests to 
fantastic fun-filled gatherings at parties, special 
concerts and films, recreational travel, special disr 
counts, and many other entertainment happenings.
It’s an opportunity you can't pass up. And it's 
rosy to order. Just «end in the coupon at the bottom 
of tltf. poge. You may charge your Pass Book on 
youi bonk credit cord if you like. Or, if you can't be 
botheied with a coupon, ihen ymply pick up the 
phone and coll 885 1717. For months and months 
you l! bp giod you did.
LOOK WHAT'S IN IT FOR YOU!
GO« KM I T Carllon House Twinhiaities SrhraffCt Penthouse Thf I brer[inns lonjwnrlhloiingf Irmly Hills Hotfl Shrralons Rrd Hull Pittsburgh Norlli Rrd Hindsfrorgr Hashing ton Motor Hotfl rhf CounselorNew lusras Hotfl Kaufmanthe Kind's (ellar »-Maria Moulin Rouge Coarb-I ilr Inn Hotel Conneaut 4 anitna (.Inna's i.olrfrn Rooster Jefferson M»|«r llolel I air lawn Park laUsa Domia Fserulive Motor l«d»r tori Mcuhen Motor !nn Hn<id\ \ I inlr Italy Mr. Rill) Mining I hr \ ilia Madrid Rusr v(a*r-lnn Hrdwood Motor llotrl Interlude Sirjk Housr Dormonl Rrd Bull Inn Pavilion Dante'sHherling DownsRiftS'Viking t astaway I irratti'sRr#wn sS'eak House lunch's Potpourri Royal (or*'ail Lounge \ppl*ti'rGlass lower Motor Inn lr/ Restaurant Ihe lamplighter Harmrr \ Rrstaurant Chateau Rrstaurant Sfiamrttrt Ini
*525 (¡.95 (I dinner)5.005.00 :{.:>(»
(2 tit kf Is) 5.1 5 
.Hi 5. (Ml5.00 3.5«3.0#4.25 4.(10(1 dinner)5.00(2 tirkrlN) «i.Otl (1 dinner)4.««5,»:.3.00:c.i»
a.si4. mi :>.<*5.HO (I dinner)
CtirlMMi.WI II'.» 3oo (I dinner» 0.50 3.(105.004.50 (1 dinner!
:<oo3.50 2.5#5.00 t 01)3.003.25 (1 dinner)
too3.253.503.50 1.754.25
The Nr w 0uo-\ adis Hobby's Sitflile (.itile Toy's Drover's Inn Traveler's Paradise Lionhtart Ina If GallerieAnglo s Italian RrstaurantNew Section für Businessmen Or Sliopfiers
page5G O«KMIKTKCrKK lKKolnFwore 195Buddies 2.50Vhraflt’s (I lumheon)
5.003.502.003.503.503.003.00 ? n
The (»unsel!#;Anglo's Applaa r
( \M Al. DINING Ponderosa Steak House (oarb-lite Inn Falon's PtH k Jones Ke;enn lounge Burden Burger Borden Burger (los erli!e\ loiinje Ronan/a Sirloin Pit I he Iced Raj (hoti (h«o Rest, nalmnot Hotel Sahalino's Relies sing-Mong
(osmo II<antrrbury fatfringlumsPi//* Hut(tide Southern Pancake House Rimbo'sMcknight Smorg a-Style(ontinental Panrakf kitchen(anterbary HousePeMeiri s Restaurant(anton Ira (>ardenPearork RrstaurantPenn Center Downstairs RoomRarnarlr Rill's/.itellis RrstaurantCirra Evrrgreen (>*ll Club L*ngtThe Copper MugHue Flame •Zark's Restaurant
2.002.251.50
2.M (50"’# off! (50"i off) 2 00 1 50 (1R R.| (I dinner) (I dinner) 2.M I !» (I dinner) (I dinner) (I sandnirb) (2 pi//a)3.25 (10% off)1.50 3.15(1 dinner)4.00 ISO(1 din»er)2.502.00 2.002.50 I.«5 2.00 2.002.501.25 1.001.50
Harold's Inn Jolly Rob's Catering
FAST FOOD
Arthur Trrarhers Dicarlo's Pi//a Cirrus Hot Dog Grandview Pu/aria Prairie Schooner Rii Madtiy Spats Morsillo's Pi//a Morsillo's Pi//a Fireside Dari-Delite
2.00 <io% efi)
Fdgewater Rest.Ruse's Georgia Fried Chie ken (tabby sTee-Pee Drive In Carolina Shop Farmer's Chin Pi//a Hut Arty*Dunkin Donuts Barnhill's Dairy-On KOHDari-Delite lown Pub lamhrllini's Ihinut I »elite Hiener Horld (htiken Drrhv Papa Joe's (arrii k Poultry Ml-Pr# (hieke*Minetti's Pi//a london Bus tish n Chips (.uys Pi//aria Mi'ter Donut Pete's Rib House Hank's Pi//a \ iMa 
\fi H Rij lire's lomaneiti Pi//a I be Prrt/el (iun (ilio's Donuts lino's DonutsAnju's Pi//eria
(1 order)1.50 (1 hoajie)2.701.501.25 C: pi'/a) (!z pi//a) (one shake, sundae, or hanana split) (I pi//ai IWI (': pi//a) 1.00(I doodleburjier)1.50 3.15(I Reel'n Cbresr) (do/, donuts) (1 evlrasajan/a)1.50 1.00(1 pi//ai 1.00 (do/, donuts) 1.001.50 2.80 1.5(1(1 dinner) 1.20 2.0« 
Ci pim)(do/, donots) ('z pi//a)Cipi//ai 1.00pi//a) ('z |»i//a) Kill (': pi//ai
(do/, («okiesipizza)
THF \TRF.S 4 co\rK «On 
usib. Playhouse Contemporary Jhealre < I lirket) Berks Patio Iheatre (lliiket)kenley Players (I lirket)South Hills Theatre (I lirket)Jerry Lewis Cinema (4 tiekrts)\ntiqur Show & Sale Double (3 tirkels)Pittsburjih Home Produrts Show 1.25Hall Protinriions (2 tickets)2001 (2 tirkels)"All Hobbies" Show k Salr Double D (5 tirlewFort I isomer Musi urn (Md Post Offtre lour-l.d Mine Bi|¡ Red lun Rarn Conneautlake Park Ponderosa Park Carlton House
(I tirket) (I tided (I lirket) (I tirket) (I tirket) (2 tirkeb) 
Ci prirrrwm)George Mashi^ton Motor Rotel f2 prire rnm) Mount Summit Ini (Vi prire room)
Bevrrly Hills Play houseHoliday Inn ol Butler ((/zlort Steuben Motor InnHotel lonneaut CzBrentwood Motor Lodge <!iF\eruti\e Motor Jwlje (!zSyria Shrine CiriF-jPgh. Playhouse TheatrePjh. Playhouse FilmsPgh. Playhouse SchoolOdd ( hair Playhouse.lay (hrisiopber's Hhite Barnlittle lake IhralrrApple Hill PlayhouseMountain PlayhouseBrirr Hill Summer Play houseRankin Playhousergh. Ballet TheatreMerrie OperettaSi. Vinrnt Summrr TheatrrStage IIGateway (Tipper The Pitl'burgher International Poetry Forum Garden Theatre Galaxy [healre Itaks Iheatre Dattola theatre liberty Theatrr Ikpendahle Drive-In \ntif|ur show X Sale Pittsburjh Boat show Pittsburgh Vrhirle Show Hartys Pub iaurrl Ca»erns Meadowerolt \illage Parkway Studioskeystone (ommuler C'zFoto Fair (' i(onley s Motor Inns ('/liualilt Inn last (' zSheraton Motor Inn — McKeesport 
(';
(2 tirkets) price room)35.00 prire room) prire room) price room)3.50 (2 tirkels) (2 tirkets) Ci rlass) (2 tirkels) (3 tirkets) (I lirkft) (I ticket) (3 tirkets) (2 tickets) (2 tiekrts) (I ticket) (2 tickets) (I (ickrt) (2 tiekrts) (3rruisfs) <1 lirkft) (2 tirkfls) (3 tirkels) (2 tickets) (I tirket) il tirket) (I licket) (2 tickets)4.INI (1 tirket) (I lirkft)4.00 (1 ticket)4.001250prire flight) prire 2 rolls) prirr room) prire room)
prire room)
RK RF \ TIO\ & spoKTSPenguins ilorkry d \hihition Game)Duqur ne Iniiersity Basketballspn ilied games) Great Valley lanes l/JOluropean Health Spa (one free week)(Quality Courts Health Club (2 visits)Viking spa (2 Ireatmmls)Flaine Powrn (one tree werk)Laurel Highlands Risrr Tour 11.00Miidernfss \oyagrrv w5T (Raft Trip)Lazy S. Riding Stable (I hr. riding)Lake Lawn Park (par 3 A min.)CirraFirrgreen (i game min.»Ron-Fire Miniature Golf <2 game min i(•oil Oasis (2 games par 3)l ake lawn Park (Ihurkrlitun Slide A (win Hillows Recreation 1.00 (orneaul Lake Park (one Ride-a-Rama tirket) I aurrl Highlands Itaneh (onr hr. riding) 3.9N Big Red lun barn Campgrounds(one night Irre ramping) Venango Trail Golf Course (1 green lee)The Meadows (2 tirkets)Halerford Park « tirkels)
Hhreling Downs(3 tiekrts)Craflon Roller Rink(2 tirkels)Ron Air Got!(1 grrrn lee)Chatham (enter Health Clu5.00Ponderosa Golf(2 grern fees)Sun Sauna Hralth Club3.00Conley's Golf(I green fee)Keystone Rarewav Park(1 tirket) (2 tickets)Rolling Green Golf(1 green fee)JennfrslownSpredway(«raopolis Golf(2 green fees)Pgh. International Dray Way(1 tirket)Little Creek Golf(2 green fees)Tanglfwood Stablfs(2 hrs. riding)Manor Valley Golf(1 grern fee)Sfaman's Riding Stables (2 lirs. instnirlion)Sliding Rork Golf(2 grern fees)Sunny Terrarr Miniature(1 gamemin.)Cirra Fiergrren(2 grrrn fres)Red Carpet Miniature(2 games min.)Riven if w Golf(1 grren Iff)Rill's Golfland(2 games min.)(osmo II(1 grrrn fee)Ranch* iew Golf(1 game min.)Ram h \iew(1 green fee)Rethel Got!(1 game min.)Castaway(1 green lee)(astaway Golf(1 game min.)Clovrrleaf Lanes(!) games)SrallysGolf(1 gamemin.)Mirarle Lanes3.K0Burke Glen(2 games min.)Laura Lanes3.00Cool Springs(2 gamrs min.)Melody Lanes3*0Brookside Park(1 gamemin.)Perry Park LanesJ.iOHillow Min. Golf(Igame min.)Carl's Hilhiew Bowl3.30Sunset Golf(1 game min.)Ian-0-Brll3.30Twin Hillows Min. Golf(Igame min.)Alt in South Side Lanes3.30Bethel Golf ( nurse(par 3)Mar 1 anes3.30Putt-Putt Golf—Monroeville(2 tirkels)Arradian Lanes3.00Putt Putt Golf—Mcknightv (2 tirkets)North Versailles Bowl2.S0Srally’s Golf—Pitrh ’n Putt(1 lirket)Lebanon Lanes2.K0Hillow Golf(1 bucket)Sorlhlanes Rowl3. K0Rill's Gollland(1 burkrt)Lucky Mrike Lanes2.20Dutrhr's Golf frain'g. Range(3 baskets)Mcknight Lanes3. tillSunset Goll(1.00 Archery)Hidden \ alley5.00Sunset Terrare(Arrhrry)Roy re Park Ski Area4.00Sunset iKaww & Shooting(1 round)Ulf Oasis2.00( oner Pocket Billiards(2 hrs.)Burke Glenn Swimming(2 tirkels)Sorlhlanes Rowl Cue& Cushion(2 hrs.)Crystal Springs(2 lickels)Mi knight Lanes Gold Cue Room(2 hrs.)Rlue Dell .Swimming(2 tirkels)Fun Slide1.00Stoughton lake(2 tirkets)National Car Rental (20% to 50% off)Corners l ake(2 tirkels)Mrs Parkrrs lianre(1 tirket)Alpine Ire Chalet(1 ticket)Penn Shadv Ballroom(2 tirkets)Monroesillr Mall Ire Palate3.00Safe Flight Aviation (!z prire flying lesson)Rosiraier Garden(2 tiekrts)Moraine Park K0A(!z prire)
S€f1DTHe COUPOfl ORCML 885-1717
^)on't miss out on all the fun. Tear out the coupon 
-mail it today. And start Retting more life out of life.
Thrct Ri*tr» Passbook, P.O. Box V8159. Pimhurgh, Pennsylvania IS227
Please send_____Three Rivers Passbooks x SI5.00,
Master Charge No-----------------------------Expires _
Bank Americard No_________________Expires _
Cash. Check or Money Order
Mr WELCOME TO THE CLUB!Mrs.
Vliss ___________________________________________________FirstLast
Address •
City-----
Age-------
State
Married.
• Zipcode. 
.Single__

---------------------------------------------------

TH€. TÀRTAN—Tuesday; October 17, 1972—Page 5
Gay Organizations 
In Pittsburgh Surveyed
by Cathy Cook
Last March, the University of Pittsburgh 
held a symposium on “HOMO­
SEXUALITY”. It was open to the public, 
and people from CMU and the community 
at large attended, as well as Pitt students. 
Jack Baker, president of the student body 
at the University of Minnesota, and Sidney 
Abott and Barbara Love, authors of 
“Sappho Was a Right-On Woman,” spoke 
about the issues concerning themselves as 
gay men and women in a hostile society.
Out of their talks grew a lot of gay 
activity in Pittsburgh, the first example of 
which is Gay Alternatives Pittsburgh (GAP) 
which holds meetings at the Unitarian 
Church at Morewood and Ellsworth. 
Among the activities of GAP are separate 
men’s and women’s consciousness-raising 
groups, counseling parolees, writing to a 
few inmates, and a Saturday night coffee­
house which was forced to close, at least 
temporarily, by the church. GAP is also 
hosting a Gay Convention in Pittsburgh 
October 27, 28, and 29. The convention 
will deal mainly with workshops on em­
ployment, sodomy laws, minors’ rights, 
gays adopting or keeping their own child­
ren and other topics, to develop a gay 
rights platform to be presented to 
Governor Shapp. Plans for the convention 
are discussed at open meetings Sunday 
nights at 8:00 at the Unitarian Church. The 
convention is statewide-it is sponsored by 
groups at Penn State and Philadelphia, as 
well as Pittsburgh.
Another Pittsburgh group supporting 
the convention is Gay Students at Pitt 
(GSP). This group held its first meeting 
September 27, and despite its name, 
strongly encourages members from CMU, 
and the greater Pittsburgh area also. GSP 
meets Wednesday nights at 8:30 in room 
524 of the Pitt Student Union, and most of
their activities are still in the planning 
stages. Lee Fiefer is signing the group in as
his guests at a dance at Point Park this 
Saturday; several members went last Satur­
day and were welcomed by the sponsors of 
the dance. GSP hopes to work with GAP to 
start another gay coffeehouse, possibly 
using facilities at Pitt or CMU. Other acti­
vities include CR groups, a spaghetti 
dinner, gay dances, etc.
Currently, it seems that GAP is a pre­
dominately politically oriented group while 
GSP is more socially oriented. But gay 
groups tend to evolve from socially suppor­
tive groups to politically active groups, be­
cause individual members have to realize 
that there is a healthy alternative to hetero­
sexuality, and come to feel secure enough 
within themselves to be able to take public 
political action. If someone is suffering 
from doubts about the healthiness of his or 
her sexual preference, he or she is not 
likely to feel motivated to publicly defend 
it.
Another Pittsburgh organization con­
cerned with adjustment and homosexuality 
is Persad (personality adjustment), a legally 
incorporated agency to open by November 
first, provided a location is secured. Persad 
is applying to the County Mental Health 
and Mental Retardation Program for 
funding and plans to operate as a client- 
directed clinic. Persad will offer “adjust­
ment counseling” to deal with “sexual 
minorities”--which includes other groups as 
well as gays. The therapists who have been 
planning this facility for 16 months feel 
that homosexuality is not an illness to be 
cured, and will direct their efforts toward 
allowing clients to adjust to a gay lifestyle 
in spite of the pressures applied by a 
heterosexual society. The center also hopes 
to provide facilities, such as a place to 
meet, for gay groups in the community.
Gay Alternative Pittsburgh (GAP), a group 
formed last spring by people concerned 
about their rights as homosexuals, is 
hosting a statewide convention for Penn­
sylvania gays. To be held in Pittsburgh 
October 27, 28, and 29, the convention 
will be the result of the planning of a 
caucus of gay organizations from across the 
state. The purposes of the convention are 
as follows:
1) To provide an opportunity for gays 
from across the state of Pennsylvania to 
exchange ideas about the issues which con­
cern them.
2) To produce a written Gay Rights 
platform .
3) To discuss the means by which the 
above tights may be obtained through com­
bined group action in Pennsylvania.
Workshops, films, a Saturday dinner and 
dance, as well as much hard work and fun 
are planned for participants. A registration 
fee of $2.50 will be charged, and should be 
sent to GAP by October 21 if possible. 
Anyone interested may contact: GAP, P.O. 
Box 10236, Shadyside Station, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15232.
BIRTH CONTRGL HANDBOOK
•X*
FREE 
SKIBO INFO. DESK
Security Attempts 
To Deal With Rape
by Debbie Siegel
Since the beginning of the academic sea­
son, there have been three rapes reported 
in the near vicinity, one on campus and 
one in Shadyside. The most recent one 
occurred in the Northumberland area three 
weeks ago. The girl suffered some mental 
shock, but is all right now. Ron Taylor, 
head of security, pointed out, “There were 
three men who raped the girl. We believe 
one of the fellows is the same suspect who 
raped the girl on September 4th. “He 
matched the same description and uses the 
same approach’ ’.
Security is trying to deal with this pro­
blem. The men in the office know the 
look-outs, and are ready to stop and ques-
C-MU PIRG
Gay Convention To Be Held
continued from page I
lems. GASP, an environmental protection 
group in Pennsylvania, recently effected a 
lawsuit against U.S. Steel, forcing them to 
cease magnitudinal pollution and to insti­
tute industrial pollutant controls. Two 
years ago, during the Pitt University expan­
sion controversy, students (who are now 
involved in PIRG) implemented legal ac­
tion preventing the displacement of fami­
lies living in the area of intended expan­
sion.
PIRG individuals feel that this is good 
indication of the feasibility of student mo­
bilization and of the strong effectiveness 
possible therein. Writes Ralph Nader, 
whose idea PIRG was originally, “PIRGs 
composed of full-time professional advo­
cates and able organizers recruited by and 
representing students cna have an enor­
mous, constructive impact on society.”
The purpose of PIRG can be summed as 
threefold: to uncover social ills, instituting 
necessary change and instruments of 
change; to institute programs and courses 
aimed at educating citizens as to the prob­
lems, their roots and efferent consequen­
ces; and to provide students with the op­
portunity to work with professionals, 
thereby gaining invaluable (career) experi­
ence in effecting the coalescence of study 
and personal ideal with reality.
tion anybody who appears suspicious. If a 
security man sees a girl walking alone at 
night, he is likely to follow her. Concerned 
with this problem, Ron Taylor has said, 
“Unfortunately, it is impossible to insure 
security for all. Assault is a realistic 
possibility if one walks around alone at
riskyhou s Foy On PIRG
continued from page 1
that wishes to correct something they 
think is wrong, provided that they find all 
the facts.”
Mr. Foy also stated that Koppers Co., 
Inc. “is making every effort” in the area of 
pollution, but that “it takes time and mon­
ey to clean up. These groups want it done 
by tomorrow morning.”
Contemporary social problems are con­
tinuous and pervasive. Full-time profession­
al staff is required for PIRG, not only for a 
maximal effectiveness of task(s), but due 
to campus schedule fluctuancy and student 
mobility. With full-time professionals, pro­
jects “involving the lives of people” need 
not be abandoned when students leave 
campus.
In order for professionals to be insured 
of a reasonable salary, Nader determined 
the most feasible finance plan to be the 
inclusion of an optional two dollars on the 
semsster bill received by each student. This 
would cover the cost of 10-12 full-time 
professionals.
PIRG operates on a network scale invol­
ving individual offices (i.e. CMLTs), local 
(i.e., those at Pitt, Chatham and Du- 
quesne), area (Western Pennsylvania) and 
statewide, with the eventual goal of becom­
ing a cooperative national effort.
PIRG activists feel that this is a good 
indication of the feasibility of student 
mobilization and of the strong effec­
tiveness possible therein. Writes Ralph 
Nader, whose idea PIRG was originally, 
PIRGs composed of full-time professional 
advocates and able organizers recruited by 
and representing students...can have an 
enormous, constructive impact on so­
ciety.”
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film 
Processing — Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE—5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
Kozol Speaks, Accuses Schools 
of Failure And Indoctrination
by Shelley Burhans
“We ask where ghetto children learn 
violence. They learn it at the hands of their 
teachers.” Thus stated Jonathan Kozol, 
National Book Award Recipient for his 
“Death at an Early Age: the Destruction of 
the Hearts and Minds of Negro Children in 
the Boston Public Schools”, and author of 
the recently published Free Schools, in his 
speech at Chatham College Wednesday 
night.
Entitled “Political Indoctrination In the 
Public Schools, the speech covered his ex­
periences as a teacher in the Boston Public 
School System, the shortcomings of Ameri­
can education and the difficulties inherent 
in change therein, and stressed the 
necessity of independent awareness and 
action, and involvement on the part of the 
individual in instigating appropriate 
changes “in your own locality”.
Mr. Kozol, fired from the Boston school 
system for such reasons as teaching Lang­
ston Hughes’ poem “Landlord” to a sixth 
grade class, reading Robert Frost’s 
“Stopping By the Woods on a Snowy 
Evening” to a fourth grade class, and using 
the slang word “o.k.” in the classroom, 
related instances of children being beaten 
and whipped, mentioning that of all school 
systems, “Pittsburgh and Dallas are...the 
most notorious for employing corporal 
punishment.” He stated the incidence of a 
nine year old girl who, due to poor eye­
sight, was placed in a “special class” (a 
class for retarded children) for “con­
venience”, and cited the case of
“Stephen”, a severely emotionally dis­
turbed child in his own class.
The young state ward continually talked 
to himself, was disruptive, and was unable 
to learn. Kozol stated that other teachers 
had admittedly dealt with the problem by 
“beating him quiet, so that class could go 
on”. He approached the administration to 
obtain psychiatric treatment for the boy, 
and was told that this involved “a wait of 
about two years for clinical treatment.” 
Spuriously placing a call to the director of 
mental health services in Boston, Kozol 
described the case, and was told that the 
director himself would deal with Stephen. 
An appointment was set, which had to be 
authorizedby “Stephen’s” social worker. 
“It’s a fine idea,” the woman stated, but 
she was busy that morning, Kozol would 
be at work, and his girlfriend could not 
take “Stephen”, for insurance reasons”. On 
the advice of a friend, Kozol called the 
social worker back and said, “she (his girl­
friend) is taking him.” The social worker 
offered no opposition...“Stephen,” during 
years of treatment “has become a healthy, 
strong individual,” stated Kozol. “This is 
the power of that one little word, ‘no’.”
He feels that Americans are ill-equipped 
to face and resist injustices, and to think 
independently; that education does not 
offer for intelligent appraisal, the diversity 
of “political” doctrines available, but 
rather offers a single doctrine, for un­
questioned acceptance. Said Kozol, “Our 
school systems fall short in that they do
not teach children to break the (ideo­
logical) law...to question and to dare the 
consequences of breaking traditions,” in 
order to change and correct the existant 
consequences of unjust laws.
He stressed the positions of parents of 
students in the school system, especially 
those disadvantaged. “School systems 
ought to be sued for false advertising... 
parents begin to question when they see 
that their children are not being prepared 
to live as healthy, strong individuals in the 
adult world. What do these school systems 
do,” asked Kozol, “beyond providing next 
year’s maids for suburbia?”
Antecedent to the loss of his job, 
parents in the community in which he 
taught asked him to help them start a free 
school. Said Kozol, “There is a symbolic 
doctrine in a poor (literally) black woman 
calling me up early one morning and 
saying, ‘Get dressed and come over. We’re 
going to start a school.”’
He emphasized the difference between 
the free school, and the definitively middle 
and upper class private free schools, 
“where students are taught to get rich at 
their own pace”. He further stated that any 
“open classroom, with pillows on the floor, 
wheat germ and access to intricate play­
things, does not involve real learning, and 
does not make a teacher. The open class­
room must involve a teacher who teaches a 
child to say no...to question that teacher, 
and each of those in the successive eleven 
years. This requires a strong, courageous 
person.”
Corelable to the “political indoctri­
nation” of educational systems, “teachers 
do not seem to encourage a sense of 
putting ideas into deeds.” According to 
Kozol, we have a tendency to self-alienate, 
to relegate ourselves to the third person in 
speaking, and through this, to alienate the 
issues. He noted the individual apathy, the 
“gutlessness,” the “feeling of impotence in 
the face of overwhelming power struc­
tures,” and stated that the struggle begins 
“right where you stand”.
In the seminar offered subsequent to his 
speech, he said, “The American ‘liberal’ has 
to ask his enemies for a license for the 
revolution,” indicating that a rebuttal 
against injustice requires politeness, “i.e., 
will you authorize this free school in the 
basement of St. Anne’s Church since the 
public schools are so inadequate?”; ‘do you 
mind if I am resentful and take action 
against being unjustly fired?”’ Kozol 
made a plea for openness and honesty, 
saying, “Maybe we ought to be a little 
rougher with each other, you with me and 
me with you.” Discussion at the seminar 
involved the proven unjust firing of a 
Chatham professor (Nan Pendrell); he ad­
vocated to the Chatham students that, 
whether they “liked or disliked the 
woman, the principle remains that an in­
justice has been committed.” Said Kozol, 
“You must say ‘no!’”
Abortion Information 
687-7414
Peer Help Center Baker Hall 150-A
How many typing styles can I choose from?
" OtlM ", offers more than twenty-one (21)
typing classes from the Script to the Modern Print.
What are the advantages of " O© "?
Once you type your report ,or have it typed, your 
papers will look like they have been printed. We 
want to help you improve your grades.
Where is " m'myIDI AW located?
3711-13 Forbes Avenue. Directly across the street 
from McDonald's. We are on the second floor, our 
phone number is 681-5223, 5224.
What are the hours of " 0UD "?
Monday thru Sunday's 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. ex­
cept Saturday's 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
What is " mmw O© " Motto?
" mrnm m> YOURSELF, OR WE WILL 
TYPE IT FOR YOU".
COME IN AND LOOK AROUNDOft
3711, 13 FORBES AVE.-2nd Floor, OAKLAND 
Across from McDONALD'S
Q. What is " OWV "? Q.
A. " O® ", is a new do-it-yourself typing ser- A.
vice available to the students of Carnegie-Mellon
who have to type MID-TERM or FINAL REPORTS for 
their courses. Q*
Q. How does the service work?
A. If you want to improve your grades, you can type 
your reports on the "world's" best typewriters.
A.
Q.
A.Q. What if I can't type?
A. " O© ", also offers typing specialist for
students^who cannot type, or don't have time to type.
" OlU> ", guarantees no TYPOGRAPHICAL
ERRORS on your papers that "TYPE-IT", types for you. Q
A.Q. What kind of typewriters can I use?
a. " ifwmm «m", offers the most modern typewriters
on the market today. We guarantee no "Out-Of- Q
Order" signs. ^

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 17, 1972-Page 7
Comment
Who’s Listen ingp
by David Stewart
Hello. Have you noticed? Dandy Don is 
everywhere. We are becoming the unwit­
ting dupes of “colormen,” instant analysis 
and capsule commentary. No longer do we 
have to go through the painful business of 
understanding and interpreting what we 
read and hear. It’s all part of the show. 
Soon we won’t have to think for ourselves 
at all. But what happens if this growing 
trend gets a little out of hand? Something 
like this:
Dr. Frankenstein: Fritz, it’s alive, it’s 
alive! The monster lives!
Fritz: I think you’re right, master. How 
do you see it, Danderoo?
Don Meredith: It definitely shows a lot 
of potentail, he finally seems to be putting 
it all together. A little more experience and 
he’ll be in a class by himself.
Monster: Wine, good! Smoke, good!
Or, this:
John: Mary, I have something important 
to ask you.
Mary: John, who’s your friend?
John: This is Eric Severeid, Mary. I love 
you and want you to marry me.
Eric Severeid: What I think John means, 
Mary, is that he has a deep and abiding 
affection for you and is planning a long- 
range mutual committment pact. There is a 
strong historical precedent for this type of 
arrangement and they have met with consi­
derable success.
Mary: Buzz off, Jack.
Again:
Butcher: Special on fryers today, Mrs. 
Murphy.
Mrs. Murphy: I don’t know. Henry says
my chicken tastes a little greasy. What do 
you think, Tony?
Tony Kubeck: The name of the game is 
execution. Thus far, your chicken hasn’t 
shown me a lot, but this may be the turn­
ing point. It’s not like Boston in ‘67, but I 
think that on any given day, your chicken 
can play with anybody’s, in any league.
Mrs. Murphy: Henry will be so pleased. 
In the bus terminal:
Mr. Jones: Which way, Mr. Brinkley?
David Brinkley: Judging from past ex­
perience in these matters and taking into 
consideration the evidence presented here, 
I can only conclude that despite your unfa­
vorable posture, an extended waiting peri­
od is the best method os procedure. It does 
say “Ladies” on the door.
Mr. Jones: Hnnnh!
And in the White House bedroom:
Pat: Why do you make me wear this 
“Now more than ever” button on my 
eighteen hour girdle, Mr. President? It’s 
itchy. Would you please scratch my back?
Mr. President: My fellow American, first 
we must wind down the shade. There, is 
that the spot?
Henry: Chust a little lower und to ze 
left. Harder, dumbkopf!
Mr. President: How’s that?
Pat: Danke, er, I mean, thank you, Mr. 
President.
But maybe I’m being a little premature. 
Then again maybe I’m not. Won’t some­
body tell me what I think?
Draft Information 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
ftarogue Musk 
Jt Carlow
A series of three programs featuring 
music and musical instruments from earlier 
periods was announced by William C. Stan­
ley, president of the Renaissance and 
Baroque Society of Pittsburgh.
For the opening program of October 19, 
the Society is bringing Fernando Valenti 
for a solo recital. Mr. Valenti, undisputed 
master of the harpsichord, is probably the 
best known modern performer on that in­
strument. Not only has he appeared on the 
concert stage in Europe and America, but 
on televised programs as well. He will be 
heard in a program featuring music by 
Bach, Handel and Domenico Scarlatti.
The guitar and its lesser known Spanish 
predecessor, the vihuela, will be the solo 
instruments in the January 27 concert. 
Fredric Hand, a brilliant young musician 
from New York, is the soloist. He will 
appear with Pittsburgh’s Antiqua Players, a 
group that has been performing early music 
since 1958. Members of the Antiqua Play­
ers are Colin Sterne, Roberta Sterne, Jean- 
nine Abel, and Richard Abel. They play a 
variety of instruments including recorders, 
crumhorns, viols, and percussion 
instruments.
A French group which enjoys immense 
popularity in Europe will appear on March
8. The Ars Antique de Paris is made up of 
five musicians who also use a variety of 
early instruments and counter-tenor voice. 
Their program will include medieval stu­
dent songs, music of the troubadours, and 
French court airs.
All three programs will be held at 
Carlwo College in the Kresge Auditorium
in Grace Library.
Memberships entitling the holder to 
series tickets may be obtained by writing 
the Renaissance and Baroque Society, Box 
6804, Pittsburgh, Pa., 15212.
Classes of membership include general 
membership, $10, student membership, 
$6.50. Additional memberships that entitle 
the holder to 2 sets of tickets for the entire 
series are contributing, $30, sustaining, 
$45; and patron, $60.
Individual admissions will be sold, if 
available, at the door on the evening of 
each concert. General admission will be $4; 
student admission, $2.75.
A THEATRICAL MIRACLE—Life Magazine
Begin« Oct. 20— Eves, at 8:30 p.m.
Mats.: Wed. 2:00 p.m.—Sat.: 2:30 p.m.
• BOX OFFICE NOW OPEN •
GROUP RATES 391-2726
Nixon
THEATER
956 Liberty Ave. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15222 
(412)—281-6773
everyone invited!
MARK
KLIMÌMAN
ST-11072
in Concerti 
itiïtO Saturila*/-itet. 21 
Sii i bo Rallrooin 
r,0<- With AMI Cani 
C-.ÌII Activities Hoard

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GOTstudents 3ainin&«xp£nenc«thnj:? r«s«rchm § sp«afic prdbkrn^? ^th^nn^fcorrtlaitin^infofrrv^tion T ciraftin^ n«w programs f* le&slature T working with a fuU-tvrrv« profi&siQoa\ stafficulty-hcadad research t&ams
"Students Interested In Working 
In The Public Interest For PIRG
Contact Steven Rubinstein.
6&7-4407
Write Pint* f Campus Mail.
99

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 17, 1972—Page 9
Announcements:
Students wanted to work with 6th graders
in special interest classes. Volunteer basis. 
Chess, stamp collecting, coins, woodshop, 
photography, art, crafts, any others that 
interestyou. Contact YWCA, ext 239, Rm 
57, Skibo Hall.
A sub-committee of the Faculty Affairs
Council will hold an open meeting on the 
subject of parking on Thursday, October 
19, at 3:30 pm, in 2210 Doherty Hall. 
Members of the University Community are 
invited to attend and present their 
suggestions and opinions. If you cannot 
attend the meeting send your written com­
ments to Faculty Affairs Council, Room 
207, MMCC.
B'nai B'rith Hillel announces a graduate
student party, Saturday night, October 21, 
at 9 pm, in the Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor of 
the Y-ICK, 315 S. Beliefield. Meet grad 
students from the other local universities.
e vents
FILMS
Thursday
S' L Aventura," Film Arts. 4:30, 7:00, 9:30, 
PH 100.
Friday
"Hellstron Chronicle,” 
7:00,9:30, DH 2210.
Activities Board.
"The End of St. Petersburg” and "Arse­
nal,” Carnegie Institute Film Section. 8:00, 
Carnegie Lecture Hall.
Saturday
"Carnal Knowledge,” Pangborn Film Club. 
7:00, 9:30, 120 David Lawrence Hall, Pitt.
"Cheyenne Social Club," MDC. 5:30, 8:00, 
10:30, DH 2210. Free.
Sunday
"Hellstron Chronicle." see Friday's listing.
"Broken Blossoms," Carnegie Institute 
Film Section. 7:30, Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
Free.
MUSIC
Isaac Hayes Friday, October 20, 8:30 pm, 
Syria Mosque, (WRCT-Cameo 
Productions).
Steve Miller Band also Gravel. Sunday, Oc- 
r tober 22, 8:00 pm, Syria Mosque.
Jacques Loussier Trio playing Bach. Sun­
day, November 11, 8:30 pm, Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall (Activities Board).
Procul Harum Thursday, November 16, 8 
pm, Syria Mosque.
' Mark-Almond Saturday, November 18, 
8:30 pm, Syria Mosque (Activities Board).
BETO’S PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
11 pm-l am M.F, 4 pm-1 om S-S
682-8656
The C-MU String Quartet will present the
first program of its tenth anniversary sea­
son Wednesday, Oct. 18, at 8:30 p.m. in 
Skibo Ballroom. On the program is 
Haydn's String Quartet, Op. 74, No. 3 
("The Rider");
Vittorio Rietti's Quartet in F Major; and 
Beethoven's Quartet in E Minor, Op. 59, 
No. 2.
The series is presented by the Alumni 
Association in support of the Scholarship 
Fund of the department of music. Tickets 
may be purchased at the door or from the 
Alumni Association.
The Center of International Programs has
initiated a fully accredited semester in 
Asian Studies through an exchange Pro­
gram with New Asia College of the Chinese 
University of Hong Kong.
Applications for Spring 1973 are due no 
later than November 1. Further infor­
mation and applications are available from: 
Center for International Programs, Beaver 
College-Franklin and Marshall College, 
Glenside, Pennsylvania 19038.
Classified Arta
CWENS, sophomore women's honorary,
are sponsoring a mum sale for Home­
coming, October 21. Order your mum (or 
your date's) in Baker Hall Main Entrance 
Tuesday, October 17, through Friday, 
October 20, Cash or check, $1.25 per 
mum.
There will be an introductory lecture on
the technique of Transcendental Medita­
tion as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi 
on Tuesday, October 24th, at 8:00 pm in 
the Multi-Purpose Room of Hunt Library. 
Admission is free.
Personals:
To de' Boys
Take warm socks and sweaters. Do you 
have enough film? How about some wine? 
Should I bake some cookies?
Ma.
The Western Pennsylvania Bluegrass Com­
mittee is looking for Bluegrass Music en­
thusiasts in the tri-state area. The WPBGC, 
a non-profit affiliated organization dedica­
ted to promoting and bringing Bluegrass 
talent to Pittsburgh, runs informal get- 
togethers, keeps members aware of nation­
al Bluegrass Music festivals and concerts, 
and presents shows by top performers of 
this pure American music.
Anyone interested in WPBGC events can 
receive the WPBGC Newsletter by sending 
their name and address to: WPBGC, P.O. 
Box 10223, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232.
TWO HANDS needs material. If you have a
poem, story, play or criticism you'd like to 
share with the rest of the world, send it to 
TWO HANDS, c/o the English Department.
MASSAGE & MEDITATION: One day
workshops in Esalen Massage as a Medium 
of Communication. $15. $25 Couples. 
441-2255.
HYPNOSIS AND SELF HYPNOSIS. 5
week course covers theory, susceptability 
tests, 2 induction techniques, and super­
vised practice. Students: $35. 441-2255.
Need roomate for large 3 bedroom apt. in
Shadyside. Don't have phone.lf interested 
drop by 816 Ivy St. Apt. 3. If I'm not 
home leave name and number with land­
lord, apt. 2.
Salesperson wanted by the Mountain Trail
Shops to sell quality backpacking and 
mountaineering equipment. Call 343-9966 
after 12 noon.
RUGS
for Alt
with your ID Card
lOOO 9x12 Rugs 
S15 $19 S29 $49
•iw **?*, 12*12*, 12x15% Me.
• WHOLESALE FURNITURE •
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Piwtfsr Chain, Chain,
WhobnU Showroom!
CHASE’S
542* WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OrtN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
. Call «21-1025
%:/5i
^•ood
AnmuiuMr /Vi««-» «in«/ trit-mlh ilnumphrrr!
"STUDENT LUNCHEON- 
VEGETARIAN DISHES”
Weekdays: 11:30 a.m. - 10 p.m. 
Weekends: 4 p.m. - 10 p.m.
404 S CRAIG STREET PHONE 682-2839
$8,200 to $10,000 
starting,
RESPONSIBILITY AMEOICAL 
COVERAGE, AADVANCEMENT,
ARETIREMENT, ACHALLENGE.
The
NAVY
See the Navy Officer 
Information Team, October 20th
Home or Office
AN ADDRESS OF DISTINCTION
A limited number of select Studio rooms and Suites — 
all air conditioned — are still available.
Monthly Rentals from $160.00
In the heart of the University-Cultural Center, here is 
truly an address of distinction, a location of conven­
ience, a life-style of leisure.
• 24 Hr. Switchboard &
Message Service
• Coffee Shop, Restaurant &
Lounge
• Room Service
• Adjacent Parking
• Maid & Porter Service
• Automatic Elevators
• Barber Shop &
Beauty Parlor
• 24 Hr. Security
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
621-7700
“All The Conveniences Of Home And Then Some"
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us — we will help you.
AMERICAN 
FAMILY 
PLANNING
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime/

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
ENTERTAINMENT
Isaac Hayes
There are still a few people who don’t 
know who Isaac Hayes is, but they should 
be getting the message soon. Isaac Hayes is 
probably the only musician who’s appeared 
at Hollywood Bowl with the Los Angeles 
Symphony, been guest soloist with the 
Memphis Symphony and broken the atten­
dance record at the Apollo Theatre in Har­
lem.
His music innovations, his mysterious, 
spiritual image, and his rise from cotton 
fields to concert halls prompted his 
followers to dub Hayes “Black Moses”. 
Accordingly, his “Black Moses” album 
cover depicts Hayes on a river bank dressed 
in a long hooded robe.
Although his records and performances 
create a sensational impact, Hayes is an 
essentially quiet man who neither smokes 
nor drinks. Born the second child of Isaac 
Sr. and Eula Hayes 28 years ago in Coving­
ton, Tennessee, he spent much of his time 
alone. His mother died when he was an 
infant, and he’s never seen his father since 
he was a year and a half old. Raised by his 
grandparents, who were sharecroppers, 
Hayes wore hand-me-down clothes donated 
by God-fearing neighbors who believed 
that cheerful givers are blessed and will 
someday inherit the Kingdom of Heaven.
“Music was always a welcomed invader 
of my environment as I came from a family 
who could only afford the expenses of self 
entertainment.
“I can remember listening to the birds 
and how beautiful they sounded singing in 
the trees where I once played. As silly as it 
may seem, I would even look at salt and 
pepper shakers on the kitchen table and 
make up songs about them. I would sing 
about anything that captivated my 
thoughts for even a moment.”
While working in the endless rows of 
cotton fields under the blazing sun, his 
mind would often drift away to more plea­
sant thoughts and he would burst into 
song. His fellow workers just considered 
him “that good for nothin’ boy”. By the
time he reached his teens, Isaac and his 
grandparents had moved to Memphis. Al­
though he yearned to study music, formal 
lessons were financially impossible for his 
family..
“I enrolled as a member of the school 
band in junior high school in order to have 
access to some musical instruments. There 
were many times when my teacher would 
have to literally dismiss me from class to 
keep me away from the piano,” he recalls.
He had to drop out of school in order to 
support the family, but his teachers helped 
him finally secure a diploma at age 21, 
years after all his classmates had graduated. 
He held various jobs and began working in 
local clubs at night. While performing as a 
saxophonist with members of the Mar- 
Keys, the Stax Organization president Jim 
Stewart invited Isaac to play on an Otis 
Redding recording session. More studio 
work followed.
Isaac met David Porter at Stax and the 
two began writing songs together and 
appearing in nightciusbs as a duo. Isaac also 
worked in a meat packing plant during the 
day but when he got laid off, he decided to 
stick with music until he made it. As both 
composers and record producers, Hayes 
and Porter began coming up with hit 
records for Stax artists. They created 
“B-A-B-Y” and “Let Me Be Good To You” 
for Carla Thomas; “I’ve Got To Love 
Somebody’s Baby” and “I Had A Dream” 
for Johnnie Taylor; and “I Take What I 
Want,” “Soul Man,” “Hold On I’m 
Coming,” “Soul Sister Brown Sugar” and 
many more for Sam & Dave. Hayes & 
Porter wrote over 200 songs and produced 
most of them.
Because of his earlier efforts as a recor­
ding artist were mediocre, Stax was reluc­
tant to let Isaac abandon his successful 
producing and writing career and make an­
other attempt as an artist. But one evening, 
following a Christmas party in the con­
verted movie theater that housed the Stax 
Organisation, Hayes was sitting in the stu­
Moogy
by Sieve Perkins
On Saturday, October 21, an unusual 
rock band called Moogy and the Rhythm 
Kings comes to C-MU, preceeded, as far as 
I know, by the what-ever previous gigs they 
may have played on this tour, a fine debut 
album, and the individual eminence of it’s 
musicians, which is considerable. Mark 
“Moogy” Klingman played piano for Carly 
Simon, wrote the song “Kindness” for 
Johnny Winter, and produced James 
Cotton’s latest album. Bassist John Siegler 
and Drummer Mark Rosengarden were pre­
viously members of Air and backed Herbie 
Mann on his last tour of Europe. Ralph 
Schuckett, the group’s second keyboard 
man, backed Carole King on all three of 
her albums and was an original member of 
Jo Mama with Danny Kootch.
One would think that a group consisting 
of two keyboards plus rhythm might get 
monotonous, but it doesn’t-the counter­
point between Moogy’s piano and 
Schuckett’s organ is often fasinating as 
both have highly unusual styles. Also, the 
Siegler-Rosengarden rhythm section is any­
thing but lame.
The album is produced by Todd 
Rundgen, who also plays and sings on 
many of the cuts and is a strong influence
dio with bassist Duck Dunn and drummer 
A1 Jackson of Booker T. & The MG’s after 
everyone had left. Stax executive vice pre­
sident, A1 Bell, entered the studio and said, 
“Come on, Isaac, I’m going to record you.”
That night, their stomachs warmed by 
champagne, the three musicians played 
while A1 Bell manned the controls. His first 
album “Presenting Isaac Hayes” was a 
modest success and opened the door to 
future recordings.
Hayes was still virtually unknown when 
the “Hot Buttered Soul” album, which 
contained only four songs, was released in 
May of 1969. By the end of the year, the 
LP had received a gold record for sales 
exceeding a million dollars, it was number 
1 on the soul and jazz charts, and Isaac was 
an award-winning artist.
“Hot Buttered Soul” and the three al­
, and the 
Kkytkm Kings
throughout. This is no doubt a return favor 
for the contributions that the individual 
Rhythm Kings made to his last album, 
“Something/Anything”. Most of the songs 
recorded on the album are Moogy originals. 
His song lyrics are often quite unusual and 
deal with topics not often explored by 
rock song writers. Musically, his material is 
reminicent of Laura Nyro, the Band and 
enevitably, Todd Rundgren. One cut en­
titled “Crying in the Sunshine” is soon to 
be released as a single.
The band collected a long list of illus­
trious sidemen for the album including 
Rick Derringer, Stu Woods of the Brethren, 
Amos Garret from the Paul Butterfield 
Blues Band and the Woodstock Horns- 
Terry Eaton, Keith Johnson, and Colin 
Wilcox. Their contributions are obvious 
but their influence is minimal-the album 
remains Moogy’s and Todd’s.
The music of Moogy and the Rhythm 
Kings can be campled by each and every 
one of you when the appointed hour 
arrives. Obtaining the album, however, can 
be more complicated-I got mine after a 
phone call in the middle of the night from 
a mysterious woman who delivered me, for 
the time being, from finite mathematics.
bums that followed “The Isaac Hayes 
Movement”, “To Be Continued...”, and 
“Shaft”, all received platinum records for 
reaching the two million dollar sales figure. 
Isaac also had several hit singles, including 
the eighteen minute long “By The Time I 
Get To Phoenix”, “Walk On By”, and 
“Theme From Shaft” which was a million 
seller.
Hayes has always balanced his success as 
a recording artist with personal involve­
ment in charitable causes. His share of the 
proceeds from his concert with the 
Memphis Symphony were donated to a 
home for the elderly. He’s donated scholar­
ship money to Black students, he’s 
appeared at the Colorado State Prison, and 
he’s been involved with philanthropic or­
ganizations in Memphis.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 17, 1972—Page 11
Foibles On Film
Dance
* Me And The
Ballerina
by Nonie Dempsey
I have a friend who is a real live 
ballerina (with a tutu and toe shoes). But 
she’s shy and doesn’t write and I’m not and 
I do, so together we said we’d review the 
Pallets at Heinz Hall. Last weekend, as it’s 
season premiere, the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre (Nicholas Petrov-Artistic Director) 
presented for the first time in this country, 
Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony. So, on Sun­
day night, me and the Ballerina brushed 
our teeth, changed our sneakers and 
climbed aboard a 61C headed vaguely in 
the direction of Heinz Hall. As the less 
^sophisticated critic I was excited at the 
prospect of seeing the Pittsburgh Ballet.
Me and the Ballerina had very nice seats 
in the second row of the Dress Circle. So 
nice, in fact, that we could appreciate the 
lovely hatchwork of tapings and rips in the 
stage as well as enjoying a marvelous view 
of the wings. There was no scenery and 
even less lighting effects so the two of us 
jfwere able to concentrate on the nearly 
humorous efforts of the youthful company 
and their amazing lack of togetherness.
The first piece, La Bayadere (4th Act) 
was a traditional white ballet which resem­
bled a crowded class at Miss K’s Dancing 
School despite good solo work by Eleanor 
D’Antuono (American Ballet Theatre) and 
Alexander Filipov.
^ The Pas de Deux from Don Quixote was 
the second, the most artistically costumed 
and by far the best ballet of the evening. 
The Company’s new Prima Ballerina, 
Dagmar Kessler and guest Peter Schaufuss 
(both from London) gave excellent perfor­
mances. After Filipov’s stern visage 
throughout La Bayadere, Dagmar’s joyous 
grin was almost as greatly appreciated as 
^her dancing skill.
During intermission, me and the 
Ballerina split a fifty cent box of choco- 
late-covered raisins to fortify ouselves and 
then marched back in for the ‘Ninth’ cele­
brating human brotherhood and represen­
ting an extension of man’s spiritual aware­
ness. It was only choreographed once be-
r Interview
'Davis, {Jameson
by Debbie Siegel
After a versatile performance, Spencer 
Davis, Peter Jameson, George Gurdes and 
other musicians held an intimate press con­
ference in the studio of WRCT. Some of 
the questions went as follows:
Was music always your main interest 
and what did you do before you decided to 
pursue that career?
Gurdes: When I went to CMU, I was 
majoring in drama and I had offers from 
Repertory companies. But as soon as I got 
out of CMU, I went directly into music, 
j Davis: I started playing guitar when I 
was 11 and now I’m 32. For a time, I 
worked for the civil service. When I was in 
Customs and Excise, I was exporting 
manure to Kenya. I decided that it would 
be more pleasant to have a career in music 
than export manure.
Jameson: 1 was involved in the music 
world as I worked in folk clubs and then 
^ ran one in London.
What musician has inspired you most? 
Gurdes: Let me answer the question for 
Spencer and he can answer for me. I’d say 
t; would have to be Leadbelly.
Davis: I think George has been most 
influenced by George Gene Audrey.
Spencer, could you tell about your asso­
ciation with Stevie Win wood and how it 
affected you in terms of where you went
Films and Television
Human
by Frederick Gormley
I have inadvertently hit upon the 
solution, yes, I have discovered the solu­
tion to the bugaboo of the ages, that which 
has stumped wise men from Aristotle to 
Onassis-the Dread of Seeing a Film after 
Reading the Book. Oh go, you say, others 
have solved that one, see the film and then 
read the novel. Dear child, one does not rid 
the populace of the epidemic by putting 
surgical masks on the corpses.
The true answer is to read the book so 
far in advance that one forgets the niggling 
(and possibly important) details and re­
members only a sketch of the plot, but 
retains a solid understanding of the theme. 
So now I am reading “Play it As It Lays” 
because the film is due out in a couple of 
months, and it is said to be Hollywood’s 
finest film on the theme of existential 
philosophy, (Tuesday Weld took the best 
actress award at the Venice Film Festival 
this year for her role in this film, and they 
don’t even give out best actress awards!). 
And now that I understand the theme 
fully, I can dismiss the plot and wax care­
free until the film opens.
I hit upon this accidentally, as I have 
already confessed. I had no idea, I never 
do, that “Slaughter-house Five” was to be­
come a film when I read it last year. So 
having sufficiently forgotten all secondary 
facts (and some primary ones) I finally saw 
the film last week. So it goes...
It isn’t a slick film, and that’s to its
fore by Maurice Bejart with a Belgian 
Company eight years ago. Nicholas Petrov’s 
choreography was entirely his own crea­
tion. And everything was disappointing- 
from the mamoth projection of 
Beethoven’s head to the red, green, purple 
and orange costumes to the zipper-down 
dancer (if he insisted on wearing his leotard 
like that, someone should have pasted 
some hair on his chest).
Thankfully, Petrov was not also con­
ducting the Mendelssohn Choir and the de­
pendably good Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra.
Md Qerdes
with your career in music?
Davis: My association with Steve Win- 
wood didn’t hold me back. We just decided 
to go our own separate ways. Myths about 
stars are often bigger than the actual 
people. Sometimes, when I’ve gone to see 
name people, I’ve been impressed by the 
talent of those who back them up. This is 
certainly true with the fine guitarist, James 
Burton. Lately Steve Winwood has been 
sick with a terrible pain. He has parantitis 
which is a cist in the abdomen. I still would 
like to put another band together. Music is 
to get across a feeling. It can control elec­
tric energy.
How do you feel about doing your old 
songs?
Davis: I don’t mind, if I can remember 
the lyrics.
The three musicians agreed that they 
rather enjoyed the atmosphere of CMU. 
“This is the first stop on the tour where we 
were able to get a jam together”.
After leaving CMU the boys will take 
their road show to Columbus, Ohio, where 
they’ll do a concert at Ohio State. After 
the tour, Gurdes plans to go east and 
would like to tour England. Spencer Davis 
and Peter Jameson will return to Los 
Angeles, where they have lived the past 
two years.
credit. Slickness would be an unwelcome 
instrusion into a film of this genre (that 
was the flaw of “The Andromeda Strain”), 
and that includes A Big Name Cast, A 
Hollywood Finish, or anything to make the 
movie ‘saleable’. The only attempt made at 
trying to widen the market for the film,(a 
ludicrous ad campaign), can be ignored be­
cause this is a fine film. Much is 
commendable, from faithfulness to what- 
1-can-remember-of-the-novel, to near per­
fect casting.
The actress playing Billy Pilgrim’s wife 
is excruciatingly shrill, as she should be, 
and plays the entire movie at a pitch just 
out of the range of human tolerance, and 
that is good. And the actress in the part of 
Montana Wildhack, the starlet that Billy 
had a yearning for ever since he saw her 
picture in Playboy, has a keen under­
standing of her character- shallow, trendy, 
and like Jayne Mansfield.
I was also impressed by the scoring of 
the film. I only wish they had told me the 
number of the Bach aria used as the theme 
and the entrance-exit music of the Tral- 
famadorians. The photography had its 
moments, as we say (as I say). And there is 
a word for the way Dresden is presented to 
us- inspirational. The first sights of the city 
are from across the river,, white-on-white 
(pure-on-phantasy). Brigadoon and this 
city have something in common in that 
they booth disappear at intervals in time in 
swirling mist. Except that Dresden returns 
to the mind of Billy Pilgrim, recurring to 
disappear in the swirling mist of mustard 
gas and shrapnel. Still, the presentation of 
the city (small architectural details accom­
panied by chamber music) was missing 
only Kenneth Clark to creep out of the 
corner of the screen to tell us how signi­
ficant it was.
But then again, we know there was no 
valid reason for the bombing of Dresden. 
And the only time we are afforded a large 
panorama of the treasures of Dresden, they 
are no more. The exquisite environs are
black-on-black smoking rubble.
Twenty minutes out of the theatre, I sat 
down to another film, excellent for 
different reasons than “Slaugher-house 
Five”. “Deliverance” was a novel also, I 
read it last year>about the same time I was 
catching up on Vonnegut. The theme is 
machismo. For those of you who are not 
familiar with the term, but may be machos 
anyway, I shall elucidate: Machismo is a 
religion practiced by a large portion of the 
males in this country, maybe in this world, 
wherein the high priest is Norman Mailer, 
and the holy object is the Broad or the 
Chick. Machismo is what propells the four 
men in “Deliverance” to ignore their senses 
and take a canoe trip down a river that is 
tame enough when they start their ex­
cursion but becomes monstrous a day later. 
These four have to prove their masculinity 
by doing the unthought of (and the un­
thought-out). And it comes right back to 
them in boiling rapids, broken legs, 
drownings, shootings, archery mis-fires, ra­
pacious mountain-folk, (no one deserves to 
be raped, male or female; but the character 
that gets sodomized indeed tempted me to 
change my view on the matter), and more. 
The impression I got was of a natural fun- 
house; The river guides you into a blind 
corner, a skeleton jumps out, and for those 
expecting it there is great fun. But for the 
uninitiated it is horrible. The film ends I 
don’t know how. I forget actually. There is 
an anti-climactic fiftenn minutes (or more) 
after they arrive physically out of danger at 
their destination, and the film muddles in a 
morality question. But the location 
shooting is on a grand scale. The im­
pression is conveyed that the beautiful can 
be deadly and that man (even “He-man”) 
hasn’t conquered nature. There is finally a 
subtle suspicion that the author and 
screenwriter, James Dickey, uses sodomy 
as an initiation rite into the knowledge of 
the wilderness and how to survive, for the 
only real survivor is the man sodomized. 
But maybe not; it’s just my suspicion.
Drug Emergency 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-APeer Help Center
Cameo Productions in Association with Carnegie-Mellon U. Presents atSYRIA MOSQUE
2 SHOWS, FRIDAYOCTOBER 20 AT8RM.AND11 P.M.
TICKETS $5 00 IN ADVANCE AT ALLTIMES AT ALL NATIONAL RECORD MARTS $6 00 DAY 
OF PERFORMANCE AT SYRIA MOSQUE BOX OFFICE FOR INFORMATION CALL (fliateifca

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 17, 1972
Qödspell Conceived M C~MU 
Ketums Zo Pittsburgh
Rod Serling in an informal seminar with students and faculty, 
last Saturday in the Ballroom.photo by Elliot Arons
Rod Serling Berates 
Nixon, Commercial TV
by Steve Saunders
On Staurday, October 14, Rod Serling 
delivered an enthusiastically received lec­
ture in the Skibe ballroom. The lecture was 
followed by a 45 minute question and 
answer period which was as intersting and 
possibly more informative than the lecture 
itself.
Serling stated his feeling that most of 
the programming on commercial television 
was ‘insipid’ and hypothesized and that 
this was primarialy due to the taste of the 
vast majority of the TV audience. He said 
that he placed his faith for the future of 
television as well as the future of American 
socieity in the hands of youth and that the 
only way to raise the quality of TV was to 
raise the taste of the American public. He 
urged students to be activist and work to 
raise the quality of society, as well as the 
public’s taste and the quality of television, 
by working for change within the! system.
Serling expressed dissatisfaction and 
moral outrage whth the Nixon adminis­
tration and chided Spiro Agnew for saying 
that the press was biased against them. 
Serling said that compared with the press 
that Abraham Lincoln and Harry Truman 
received, Nixon has been treated almost 
like a ‘beloved figure.’
In the question and answer period that 
followed, Serling was at his best. He gave 
answers that were witty, off-the-cuff and 
which seemed completely honest and sin­
cere.
When asked whether he ever compared 
‘Night Gallery’ to the old ‘Twilight 
Zone’series, he said that he did often and 
was completely aware that the ‘Twilight 
Zone” shows were “infinitely superior”. 
He expressed dissatisfaction and bitterness 
that he now has no control over his own 
show. He claimed that he was being 
screwed by by the network, adding that 
he’d had only four scripts rejected in his 
career, and that they were all rejected by 
“Night Gallery” as too cerebral.
When asked about the success of 
Norman Lear and his shows, Serling said 
that he finds ‘all in the Family’ funny, but 
wishes he didn’t. He at first thought there 
might be laughs over the misdirection of 
Archie Bunker, but later wondered 
whether it was a ‘cop-out.’
Serling expressed regret that he had 
appeared in so many obviously misleading 
commercials, particularly the pain reliever 
commercial which features the completely 
meaningless phrase,‘relieves headache pain, 
and so its nervous tension.’
Perhaps the most entertaining moment
Serling and portable radio. The self-proclaimed 
gambler took "a bath" with Pittsburgh's 
defeat. photo by Elliot Arons
caome when Serling was asked to repeat 
the opening introduction for ‘Twilight 
Zone.’ He got was far as ‘it is a dimensions 
as vast as space and timeless as infinity; it is 
the middle ground between light and sha­
dow, between the height of man’s know­
ledge and the...’ and fell into a stream of 
‘ta-da-da-ta-da’s.’
The audience gave a standing ovatiom 
as he left at 9:30 to catch his plane; they 
had just seen one of the most witty, liter­
ate and interesting speakers ever to come 
to C-MU.
Drug Emergency 
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-A Peer Help Center
THE CARPENTER’S HOUSE, 
A Christian Coffee House
with ENTERTAINMENT, FOOD and
RELAXED FUN . . . IS OPEN 
every Friday night from 8:30 to 12.
THE CARPENTER'S HOUSE ... is 
located at 4600 Wm. Penn Highway 
parallel to Route 22, in Murrysville.
The coffee house is open to persons 
living in East Suburban and sur­
rounding areas. Programs vary from 
talented musical artists to thought- 
provoking programs.
For further information, contact: 
CAROLE MILADIN ? A ? 325-1444
Tickets are now on sale at the box of­
fice for “Godspell,” the internationally ac­
claimed musical adaptation of the Gospel 
of St. Matthew, which will open its nation­
al tour at Pittsburgh’s Nixon Theatre. Pre­
views begin October 20 with the formal 
opening, a premier benefit performance for 
“The First Stage: Performing Arts for Chil­
dren” sponsored by Carnegie Institute, set 
October 27.
For everyone involved with “Godspell,” 
the Pittsburgh engagement has special sig­
nificance, for- it was here at Carnegie- 
Mellon that John-Michael Tebelak first 
conceived the project as partial fulfillment 
of his master’s thesis. Encouraged by the 
response, Tebelak and his cast scraped to­
gether their funds and set out for New 
York.
How and why did ten young people 
gather their talents to appear first Ellen 
Stewart’s LaMama Theatre in New York’s 
East Village, then open at the off-Broad- 
way Cherry Lane in May, 1971, and finally 
at the Promenade where it still prospers? In 
the last few years, the peace and love ethos 
of the hippie experience, after going 
through violent, sad, and profound chan­
ges, has evolved with a new incarnation: 
the age of reawakened spirituality. Human­
ism, for the first time in a great while, 
seems inadequate, survival in an unreal and 
unresponsive world requires more than na­
ked faith in human nature. As singer/com­
poser James Taylor expressed it recently, 
“In a euphoric society, existentialism 
would be fine. The way things are now, 
though, it certainly is necessary to have 
buffers like Christianity. To me, Jesus is a 
metaphor, but also a manifestation of 
needs and feelings people have deep within 
themselves.”
Only during the last sequences of the 
production does the Passion and Crucifix­
ion enter into this spirited production, for 
Mr. Tebelak has drawn from the spirit of 
Christ and his teachings rather than from 
the Bible in its literal sense. Judaism, Zen, ^ 
Baba; all religions profoundly influence the 
presentation which is at its heart an at­
tempt to create a new mass for today.
“Godspell,” which is the archaic form 
of the word gospel, attempts to envelope 
its audience with its message of joy, com­
munication and renewal; “Godspell” is in 
essence Eucharistic Theatre.
In the last year or so the “Jesus Freaks” | 
have begun to out-number panhandlers on 
Telegraph Avenue in Berkeley and the Sun­
set Strip in Los Angeles; reformed addicts 
have started holding non-denominational 
church services in living rooms; a mystical 
religion based on the teachings of Meher 
Baba bloomed in The Who’s rock opera, 
“Tommy”; “Jesus Christ Superstar” and 
“Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor { 
Dreamcoat”, composed and written by two 
young Englishmen, Andrew Lloyd Weber 
and Tim Rice, have made an indelible im­
pression on young America, and now on 
the crest of this wave of spirituality in the 
young comes “Godspell”, an answer to the 
age of despair.
Since leaving Pittsburgh for New York 
nearly two years ago, “Godspell” has open- ( 
ed in New York, Los Angeles, Boston, 
Washington, Toronto, Chicago, London, 
Paris, Montevideo, Hamburg, Sydney, and 
Melbourne. The film version of the musical 
is now being filmed on location in New 
York with a cast drawn from the various 
national companies and from the original 
New York cast.
^rtrok't' jaw«/. U ASt i iioo -tfiMk do
RECOMf SALE!
OUR REGULAR FALL EVENT
ALBUMS FROM $!.9H UP
Classical, Pop, Jazz,Folk
C-MU Book Store

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972—Page 13
continued from page 1
The administration has expressed the desire 
to tack on the $15 and effectively raise 
tuition.
The major reason expressed for the pro­
posed $5 increase was the serious monetary 
shortage now confronting Student Senate. 
Respite efforts at cost cutting in the recent 
budgets the proposed funding was larger 
than ever, and an increasing demand from 
new organizations have left Student 
Government short several thousand dollars. 
With the increase in income due to unre­
funded Bookstore rebates the present 
monetary crisis can be surmounted, how­
ever unless next years budgets can be cut 
%n increase in income is necessary.
On October 24th Student Senate will 
debate the necessity for this increase and 
how it should be implimented. All students 
are invited to discuss this vital monetary 
issue on October 24th, 4:30, Wherrett
£oom__Skibu.
TWO CLASSIC FILMS 
THE END OF 
ST. PETERSBURG 
and ARSENAL
Friday, October 20th
.. in the . .
CARNEGIE LECTURE HALL
? 8:00 P.M. ?
TICKET INFORMATION - 622-3212
Introducing the 4-channel T-shirt, the least expensive Fisher you can buy.
We’re selling the new Fisher TS-100 for only $ 1.
It’s a 4-channel T-shirt, and a dollar is an incredibly 
low price for it, since it’s a $3.50 value.
But you don’t even have to spend a dollar on it.
You can win it free, just by stumping one of our salesman 
with any one of the twenty questions in this ad.
If you think this is some kind of con, you’re
wrong. We expect our salesman to know most of the 
answers. But all twenty??!!
Incidentally, you can pick up a copy of the 
correct answers at the dealer listed below.
Salesmen are not allowed to look at the answers 
while you’re asking the questions.
That would be cheating.
1. What is sensitivity?
2. What does a muting control do?
3. What is a Hertz?1. A car bearing a corpse2. The number of back and forth vibrations of an AC signal in1 second.3. A national car renting company.
4. What does the term “selectivity" mean?
5. The control that makes it possible to listen to the full range of sound when music is played at alow volume is called:1. Range control.2. Loudness contour control.3. Volume control.6. What purpose does a high filter control perform?7. What are Baxandall controls?
8. What is a watt ?1. A unit of light.2. A unit of power.3. A unit of efficiency.9. What is distortion?
10. How do the various power measurements, such as Peak-to-Peak, IHF, E1A and RMS relate to actual output power?11. The ability of a speaker to follow low-frequency signals of large amplitude is called:1. Transient response.2. Compliance.3. Efficiency.12. What is the functioh of a crossover network?13. What is meant by an acoustic- suspension speaker system?
14. What are the advantages of a heavy turntable platter?15. Wow and flutter are:1. Changes in power output of an amplifier.2. Distortion caused by variationsin turntable or tape deck motor speed.3. Irregularities in the human voice.16. What are the main benefits of electronics tuning?1. More accurate than manual tuning.2. Lower cost than manual tuning.3. Provides convenient remote control tuning.17. What does the term "capture ratio” mean?18. What is an IC?19. What do tape monitor circuits do?
20. What is the TS-100?
A WHERE CONVENIENT CREDIT i S |S AVAILABLEVWINDER
Eastland Shopping Plaza 
North Versailles, Pa. 15137
7901-7903 McKnight Road 
Ross Township, Pa. 15237
Monroeville Mall 
Monroeville, Pa. 15146
•Computers Available
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU’s Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
Desk Lamps ** Key Service ^ Artist Brushes 
** Hot Plates ^ Poster Paints ^ School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
by Debbie Siegel
Every student in this university has a 
customer number and is allocated funds to 
be used for computing. One may find the 
computation center on the third and fifth 
floors of Science Hall. It is run as a part of 
the Operations Division under the direction 
of Dr. Ronald Rutledge.
The Computation Center remains open 
24 hours a day for seven days a week with 
it’s own engineering staff present. This 
means that machines are maintained more 
efficiently than if outside repairmen had to 
be called. Technical writers who publish 
0nanuals describing the systems are also em­
ployed there.
There are seventy Ph.D. candidates in 
Computer Science and a masters depgree 
program has just been started. At this time, 
no undergraduate degree is issued. Accord­
ing to Dr. Rutledge, “There are undergrad­
uates who are more qualified in this area 
than many professionals. The center really 
Relies on student programmers who make 
up about half of the operating staff.”
The Computation Center facilities are 
located in Science Hall. Key punch ma­
chines for card jobs and some of the sys­
tems available include time-sharing, lan­
guage processors, and a plotter are on the 
third floor. On the fiffh floor, there is a 
teletype room for remote job entry. Vari­
ous computers may be used conversational­
ly by having a dialouge from a remote 
terminal or doing a batch job with punch 
cards. There are 200 terminals located 
throughout the campus. Video tape equip­
ment will soon be used to prepare instruc­
tional tapes on the different computer cen­
ter facilities. This will supplement written 
documentation. Plans are being made to 
^puild a library of tapes that will be avail­
able to the campus community.
Students in the Computer Science De­
partment have done some unusual research 
projects. Some have written programs for 
a chess game and have challenged other 
programs of chess. There are possibilities of
challenging other universities to chess 
games with their computers. The computer 
can also make layouts of buildings, print 
pictures, and print a book. When a verbal 
command is given to the computer, it can 
synthesize the speech and then, recognize 
the words of an individual.
The Computation Center also has an 
adminstrative function. In addition to serv­
ing customers, the computer center staff 
handles many of the computing needs of 
the university administration, such as the 
registrar, grades, and budgets. By using the 
computation center, $100,000 is saved 
every year in administrative work.
About one third of undergraduate stu­
dents used the Computer Center last year. 
Dr. Rutledge has expressed, “ We hope 
more students will take advantage of all the 
computation center has to offer this 
year.”
Discover the World on Your
SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with 
educational stops in Africa, Aus­
tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 
students from 450 campuses have 
already experienced this interna­
tional program. A wide range of 
financial aid is available. Write 
now for free catalog:
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
Three Pikas rush a prospective Greekphoto by Bruce Edelston
Fall Kush Adds 
90 To Fraternities
Campuses across the country are experi­
encing a serious decline in the number of 
Greek organizations, so this year is particu­
larly important for the CMU fraternity 
system. The Council of Fraternity Presi­
dents has promised to run a far reaching 
rush program this year to insure perpetua­
tion of the houses on this campus.
Ninety new names were added to CMU 
fraternity membership rosters on the night 
of October 2, 1972. The number of new 
pledges at each house is as follows:
Alpha Tau Omega: 6; Beta Sigma Rho: 
8; Beta Theta Pi: 17; Delta Tau Delta: 6; 
Delta Upsilon: 7; Kappa Sigma: 7; Phi 
Kappa Theta: 4; Pi Kappa Alpha: 5; Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon: 13; Sigma Nu: 7; Tau Delta 
Phi: 10t
This is the first time in a decade that 
stich an early pledge date has been utilized. 
Bill Haddock, the CFP executive vice Presi­
dent, is pleased with the new additions. He 
does not wish to terminate the rush pro­
gram, however. A second semester rush, 
comparable to the one just concluded, is 
currently in the planning stages. He feels 
that many freshmen were unable to pledge 
for various reasons. These include financial 
insecurity, academic pressures, and a gener­
al unwillingness to commit oneself to such 
a major responsibility without taking more 
time to examine all facets of the problem. 
“I understand these attitudes, and hope 
that by second semester all interested 
freshmen will be settled enough to make a 
reasonable decision,” he added.
Drug EmergencyJ
Abortion ReferralI
Legal Information1
Draft Information
687-7414
Baker Hall 150-APeer Help Center
The TARTAN Needs....
LAYOUT EDITOR
WRITERS
for SPORTS and FEATURES
I V ASSISTA.XT
ADVERTISING MANAGER
SOMEONE WITH A CAR
for IMPORTANT DELIVERIES 
and PICK-UPS EACH WEEK
(Expenses Reimbursed)
Phone: 682-4557 or Stop at Skibo 50
Ten million years ago, in another gal­
axy, a star exploded. A few months ago, 
the burst of light created by the explosion 
finally reached the earth and Mt. Palomar 
Astronomer Charles Kowal’s telescope was 
ready and watching. When such a star dies 
it becomes a supernova, or neutron star, 
which we observe as a pulsar. By training 
telescopes on the heavens to view the death 
of stars, astronomers hope to learn more 
about stellar evolution, the distance and 
velocity of galaxies, and even the age of the 
universe.
Man-made pollution has altered the 
type, but not the health of underwater 
plant and animal life. Plastic domes placed 
on the sea floor were part of a recent study 
of the effects of pollution on the under­
water community. Living in an underwater 
habitat, Dr. Morgan Wells, physiologist 
from the University of North Carolina, and 
teams of scientist-divers placed domes from 
eight inches to four feet in diameter over 
sections of voral reef off the coast of Flori­
da and monitored oxygen and temperature 
changes inside. The measurements showed 
drastic changes in the plant-animal relation­
ships on the sea floor, a sign that they are 
adapting to the negative changes in their 
environment in order to survive.
men who merit eternal damnation.-?
"SHALL WE not have regular swarms of 
them here, in as many disguises as only a king 
of the gypsies can assume, dressed as print­
ers, publishers, writers, and schoolmen? If ever 
there was a body of men who merited eternal 
damnation on earth and in hell it is this Society 
of Jesus. Nevertheless, we are compelled by 
our system of religious toleration to offer them 
asylum/7
— President John Adams, 
in a letter to Thomas Jefferson,
1816
SWARMS? not really. 
MANY DISGUISES? only a few. 
ETERNAL DAMNATION?
that depends on your point of view.
the je su its 
wernewille, pa.
19565

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 17, 1972-Page’15
photo by Nick Lardas
Charlie LaVallee controls the ball in front of the John Carroll 
goal as Hugo ESencic and Max Lebbin move into scoring position.
Allera Out
Tartans Stopped on 
Allegheny Gridiron
Rosebud
Tartan footbal hopes suffered a double 
Pdefeat Saturday, as CMU lost to Allegheny 
13-6 and lost quarterback Jim Allera for 
the season with a shoulder injury in a low 
scoring game marred by six fumbles and six 
interceptions.
Allegheny controlled the first half, with 
rollout quarterback Robyn Small moving 
the Gators with his passing and elusive run­
ning. The Tartan defense was tough when 
Pit counted though and limited the Gators 
to one touchdown in five trips to the 5 
yard line. Key interceptions by Ron Shin- 
ault and Bill Vukoder stopped two of their 
threats. Shinault raced 98 yards down the 
sideline with his first quarter interception 
for the Tartans’ only score. The Plaid of­
fense was stymied most of the half by the 
Allegheny line and poor field position, 
fc In the second half, CMU came out hit­
ting and immediately took charge of the 
game. Starting on their own 20 yard line, 
,CMU marched to the Gator 8, where on 
fourth down, Allera was injured while com­
pleting a pass to Dan Maletic. With Shin­
ault filling in at the quarterback spot, CMU 
could muster only one more threat, set up 
by a defensive fumble recovery on the 
^ Gator 30 yard line, and a 30 yard option 
pass from Chuck Radic to Charlie Price at 
the one. A fumble on the next play ended 
the drive.
Statistically Allegheny dominated the 
Tartans with 400 yards total offense to 
160. The CMU defense grabbed two fum­
bles and four interception to hold things 
even on the scoreboard.
^ Tech, now 1-3 overall and 1-1 in the 
PAC, faces top-rated John Carroll Saturday 
at the Tech Field in the Homecoming 
Game. This game is a must for both tems in 
that both are two of the four teams left 
with only one defeat.
Soccer Team
Jeff R. Englund
Last Saturday in the Tech Bowl a bomb­
proof Tartan defense stymied John Carrol 
while a pretty potent attack scored what 
the team needed in our 2-f) soccer victory.
Tartan goaltender John Lape practically 
could have gone behind the goal and slept 
during the first half, as the visitors couldn’t 
move the ball within scoring range. In the 
second half, behind behind by two goals, 
John Carrol moved directly in front of the 
C-MU goal several times, but couldn’t over­
come the Plaid defense. Lape’s long, well 
directed passes and kicks often passed mid­
field and nearly always set up oppor­
tunities for the Tartan’s line.
Our first goal resulted from a dazzling 
fake by wing man Dave Fry, who eluded 
his defender and passed to Peter Moses, 
who in turn sent the ball high into the net. 
At halftime, one of the games officials was 
heard to remark, ‘That number 2 (Moses) is 
the sweetest player I’ve ever seen.’ Hugo 
Bencic later scored unassisted and the half 
ended with the home team leading by a 
pair.
Stops Carroll
The only excitement generated in the 
second half was through two just-missed 
head-ins by Max Lebbin and Nazir 
Sunderji.
Coach Steve Fagan was pleased, though 
not overly impressed by our victory. While 
praising the seemingly impregnable de­
fense, he expressed some consternations re­
garding the proportion of goals made to 
shots taken. He said CMU is averaging 20 
shots per game, a good number, but should 
be expected to put more of them to 
effective use.
Mr. Fagan, while admitting that we 
haven’t been playing quite to potential, has 
high hopes for his squad. He chose to dis­
regard the West Penn Conference race, 
which promises to be dominated by Pitt, 
but said that the Tartans have an excellent 
chance for the PAC title. Our record in 
league play is 2-1-1, with all other members 
about the same except Bethany, which is 
still undefeated.
CMU’s overall record is5-2-l. Next week 
the Tartans visit W&J. After that, all re­
maining games are home contests.
Harriers Stay On Top In PAC
D. R. Sullivan
Carnegie-Mellon’s Cross Country team 
went to Bethany on the 11th, ran their 
course and brought back two more 
victories. But it was more than a mere 5.1 
mile race over a course which makes our 
tough Schenley run seem relatively easy. It 
was a race in which Ken Kloes shattered 
Bethany’s course record by about 30 se­
conds with a time of 26:42, followed by 
teammates Hawkins,' McKay, Hyatt and 
Bingham to slaughter Bethany 16-44. It 
was a tough course and yet every man made 
a marked improvement in relative time and 
ran with the determination and strength 
that has earned us a 7-0 record.
But all things must pass as Coach Meck- 
ley’s ‘Slaughterhouse Five plus’ fell to 
Grove City,20-40 on October 14. Again, 
Kloes, McKay , Hawkins, Hyatt, Bingham 
and Eberle finished in that order and ran 
times that have shown continual improve­
ment, so what more can be said? Greg 
Dewey, our top man, has been recovering 
from foot troubles and hasn’t run in the 
last three meets. He could have run, though 
it would not seem to have made a remark­
able change in any of the results. Bigger 
things like Westminster, Allegheny, CWRU, 
and of course, the PAC Championships lie 
ahead and sometimes the sacrifice has to be 
made.
Our next home meet will be Home­
coming at 11:30 on Flagstaff Hill against 
Westminster and St. Vincent.
THIS WEEK’S CONTESTS:
WEDNESDAY- Cross Country at Waynes- 
burg
SATURDAY- HOMECOMING-
Football- John Carroll, 1:30 
Cross Country- St. Vincent and 
Westminster, 11:30 
Soccer- at W&J
IWs: FOOTBALL, GOLF, TENNIS, COMING SPORTS
With the IM Football Season in full 
swing, many teams are already thinking of 
hanging up the old spikes until next year 
while others are anxiously awaiting the 
playoffs. Although there has been one big 
surprise this season, it doesn’t appear that 
anything will disrupt the order of the pre­
season playoff favorites.
In the National League it’s PKA all the 
way with second place still to be decided 
between Black Magic and Wild Bunch. PKA 
has had many convincing defeats in 
chalking up a 48 point per game average 
including two 60 point performances. As 
usual, their team rolls behind the arm of 
Barry Benjamin, and with this being his last 
year the PKAs are in dire need of a first 
round draft pick to supply next year’s 
quarterback.
The big surprise this year came in this 
league when PKT upset the Black Magics in 
the opening game of the season, 19-13. To 
prove this wasn’t a fluke, they came back 
to the IM field against PKA in their second 
game and gave them their best battle this 
year, losing only by four points, 22-18. 
They seem to have lost their momentum 
now, however, leaving Black Magic and 
Wild Bunch vying for second place honors.
Wild Bunch defeated Black Magics in 
their first confrontation and appear to have 
the upper hand. They resemble Salt and 
Pepper in two ways: a lot of size and a lot 
of speed. With Black Magics lacking the
leadership of Jeff Hollis, Wild Bunch looms 
as the clear favorite to triumph again over a 
disorganized Black Magic squad, r The 
National League standings should wind up 
like this: PKA, WB, BM,' PKT, SAE, Red 
Death.
In the American League there’s no ques­
tion as to who’s in the playoffs, it’s Salt 
and Pepper and BTP. Both teams have 
compiled a five win and no loss record but 
their first meeting was rained out and 
therefor each team’s chance to prove its 
supremacy went by the wayside. Salt& 
Pepper still has all the beef and brawn and 
also their fleet-footed quarterback Jeff 
Hollis, but BTP still appears to be the favo­
rite at this point. They have averaged 48 
points per game to tie PKA for the leading 
offense and have by far : the best defense, 
allowing an average of only 10 points per 
game. It appears that when the “‘Big Red” 
get rolling, nothing can stop them. The 
American League should wind up in the 
identical order of the pre-season pre­
dictions: BTP, Salt & Pepper, ATO,
Balnox, SN, DTree.
In the minor leagues, the Oakland A’s 
seem to have a monopoly on first place. In 
the East, the “Oakland A’s Pendora Hgts” 
lead the league with an unblemished 5 and
0 record. In the West it’s once again the 
Oakland A's with an undefeated record but 
they have stiffer competition from the 
“Shrinks” who are also yet to be defeated. 
The present standings are:
NATIONALLEAGUE
PKA6-1
Wild Bunch4-1
Black Magic3-2
PKT2-3
SAE2-3
Red Death0-6
AMERICANLEAGUE
BTP5-0
Salt & Pepper 5-0
ATO2-3
Balnox1-4
SN0-3
Delta Treeout
STEAST
Oakland A’s4-0Pendora Hgts.5-0
Shrinks5-0KS4-1
High Guys3-2Purple Gnurple 2-1
TDP1-3PKA-B1-3
Wonderbrau0-3DTD1-3
BSR0-4Taxi0-5
The intramural golf and tennis seasons 
also have nearly been completed. In their 
first playoff match, the Old Men team, the 
defending champion, was defeated and 
eliminated, 8H to 3Vi by a strong Pedora 
Heights team. When they take on the 
winner of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon-Pi 
Kappa Alpha match in the finals, they 
should easily win the golf championship.
With Sigma Nu and Phi Kappa Theta
winning their respective leagues with per­
fect records, the intramural tennis natches 
were completed last week. Tau Delta Phi, 
5-1, finished second behind Sigma Nu in 
the Racket League. Two teams, the Tennis 
B’s and Knell, both finished with 3-2 re­
cords and a tie for second place. The 
Tennis B’s, the stronger of the two teams, 
should win its playoff match with Knell. 
But, in the semi-finals it will face a tough 
Sigma Nu team, who should win but not 
easily. Phi Kappa Theta is highly favored to 
defeat Tau Delta Phi for the other spot in 
the finals. Matching two undefeated teams 
against each other, the final round should 
prove to be an even and quite exciting 
match. Because of its stronger depth, Sig­
ma Nu is given a slight edge in winning the 
tennis championship this year.
Entry rosters for soccer, 6 man volley­
ball, bowling and squash are due Tuesday, 
October 1-7. Due on Tuesday, October 24, 
are the entries for the intramural cross 
country meet. The race will be the same 
day at 4:30 and will start at the bottom of 
Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park. A map of 
the course is posted on the IM bulletin 
board. All runners may enter as individuals 
or form a team if they desire. All teams 
must have at least three runners and awards 
will be give to the winning team and the 
top three individuals. Also, the IM Board 
has added Chess to its program. Entries for 
the 5-man teams are due Tuesday, October 
31.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 17, 1972
Profs Make Nervy Model
A computer model of a nervous system 
is being developed at CMU.
The project is funded by a $176,200 
grant from the National Science Founda­
tion.
Through construction of such a com­
puter simulation, scientists hope to find 
out more about the correlation between 
the nerve cell structure and function.
Principal investigator for the project at 
CMU is Dr. D. R. Reddy, associate profes­
sor of computer science. Working with Dr. 
Reddy is Dr. W. J. Davis, professor of bio­
logy at the University of California at San­
ta Cruz.
In the study, Professor Reddy will con­
struct a geometrical representation of a 
lobster ganglion (a set of nerve cells), spe­
cifically the ganglion system which oper­
ates the lobster’s swimmerets, the appen­
dages used for swimming and carrying eggs.
Computer reconstruction is required to 
make the necessary comparisons and meas­
urements on the neural structures. To do 
this, a very sophisticated computer system 
incorporating elements on the frontiers of 
computer science is being used. It will be 
capable of constructing a three-dimensional 
model of a nerve system from photographs 
of sections, transforming the model into a 
two-dimensional graphical display with per­
spective, and permitting manipulation of 
the graphical image so that it can be stu­
died from any viewpoint, enlarged, or redu­
ced.
Professor Reddy has done extensive 
work with visual and voice input to compu­
ters at Stanford and CMU.
“Despite some of the sensational stories 
which have appeared about computers and 
robots replacing human beings,” Dr. eddy 
says, “we are a long way from any such 
possibility.” In fact, in recent years we 
have begun to realize how little we know 
and how much more work needs to be 
done before we can begin to construct 
computers comparable to the human 
brain.”
Dr. Reddy notes: “In effect we’re work­
ing with a min-brain, or a limited neural 
system. Lobsters have various systems of 
nerve cells which perform limited func­
tions.”
Lobsters are being used for the study 
because the swimmeret system is one of 
the best understood small systems of nerve 
cells, a result of several years of intensive 
investigation. Dr. Davis has been one of the 
foremost researchers in these studies.
The study ultimately aims to provide 
“the most complete functional and struc­
tural understanding yet available of the 
neuronal control of a specific, relatively 
complex act of overt animal behavior.”
Techniques developed in the study are ex­
pected to be directly usable in the analysis 
of other invertebrate nervous systems, and 
ultimately to the analysis of any restricted 
neural network.
“Despite some of the sensational stories 
which have .appeared about computers and 
robots replacing human beings,” Dr. Reddy 
says, “we are a long way from any such 
possibility. In fact, in recent years we have 
begun to realize how little we know and 
how much more work needs to be done 
before we can begin to construct com­
puters comparable to the human brain.”
Computer Crime 
Model Planned
Criminal justice planners will be able to 
project the effects of changes in criminal 
justice systems through a planning tool to 
be developed at C-MU.
The study, to be funded by a $52,405 
grant from the Pennsylvania Governor’s 
Justice Commission, will enable the 
planners of criminal justice systems to 
analyze the results of changes in such fac­
tors as budget allocations, arrest rates, and 
sentencing procedures. Formally termed an 
“Interactive Feedback Planning Model of 
the Criminal Justice System,” the resulting 
computer program will provide an accurate 
and fast means of measuring the effects 
elsewhere in the criminal justice system of 
new projects being considered.
The grant research will be undertaken 
by the Urban Systems Institute (USI) of 
the University.
Professor Alfred Blumstein, director of 
USI and principal investigator for the
Legal Information 
687-7414
earthworks exchange
Pittsburgh's handcraft marketplace
209 no. craig st. 
683-6818
open 11-6 tues- sat.
Anyone interested in typing 
the TECHNICAL, call the Editor 
at 661-2830. We will provide
IBM training and $2/hr.
study, noted that the development of this 
tool is an extension of the Justice Inter­
active System Model (JUSSIM) program 
that is now being applied in such places as 
Allegheny County, Philadelphia, Alaska, 
California, and Vermont.
The computer model being developed 
will enable a planner to sit at a computer 
terminal, feed into the computer changes 
in the computer model, and then read the 
effect of these changes on the various parts 
of the system. This approach would, for 
example, enable police to measure the im­
pact of a higher arrest rate on the courts 
and prisons. The model would also be ca­
pable of measuring the effect of various 
treatment programs on future criminal 
careers.
CWENS Celebrate 
50th Anniversary 
At Convention
Cwens, sophomore women’s national 
service organization, celebrated its fiftieth 
anniversary during a convention held in 
Pittsburgh on October 13 and 14. The 
event was hosted by the founding chapter, 
Alpha, at Pitt, and by the two other Pitts­
burgh chapters, Eta at CMU, and Alpha 
Gamma at Duquesne.
General chairman and program producer 
for the convention was Sue Levine, a CMU 
senior graphic design major. Assisting her 
were Paula Cunningham from Duquesne, 
travel and housing manager; Peggy Kuzac 
and Andrea Topper convention chairmen 
from Pitt, in charge of food and the Sat­
urday evening banquet held in the 
Commons Room of Pitt’s Cathedral of 
Learning; Carol Zacher, CMU convention 
chairman, Cecilia Friskie, Eta chapter pre­
sident; and members of the Pittsburgh 
Cwens chapters.
Mrs. Virginia B. Milligan, Dean of 
Women at CMU, and Sue Christian, CMU 
student activities coordinator, are advisors 
to the CMU group.
Amateur and Free Lance
PHOTOGRAPHERS
Obtain a Photographers Identifica­
tion News Card, which helps to get 
you past "lines" to where the money 
shots are.
To receive yoor NEWS CARD, mail $2.25 ($3.00 
for Card and Carrying Case) to:
QUINN
P. O. BOX 4719 • PITTSBURGH, PA. 15206
Students and Faculty:
Get Involved In A
Public Interest 
Research Project
We are conducting a study of Retail Food 
Prices in poverty versus high income areas.
• Do the poor pay more for food?
• Is food quality inferior in poverty areas?
• WHY?
Want to do research that will affect a real 
issue?
CONTACTS
DR. DAVID CASS 
621-2600, ext. 545
JEFFREY GANEK 
621-8157
