Football Dance 
UNION 
Saturday Night?Ihr (Harlan
Carnegie-
Westminster 
FOOTBALL 
Saturday—3 P. M.
VOL. XVI. NO. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1921
•î* *î* -I* *î» «i* *î» •SEC. SPEAKS 
IN WEST VA.
¦
Dr. Baker Addresses Students 
at U. of W. Va. on Dis­
armament—Talk Well Re­
ceived
DISCUSSES GERMANY
There are some splendid1 op- •
• portunities for some Plebes or • 
1 Sophomores on the paper. Stu- •
• dents desiring to try out for a • 
1 position on the staff should re- •
• port at The Tartan Office, * 
f Room 5-A, Industries Building, • 
1 between 11:30 and 1:30 on Mon- •
¦ day or 12:30 and l:30Wednes- •
¦ day.
* * * * * * * * r* * *
Dr. Thomas Stockman Baker, the 
Secretary of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, was the speaker' last 
Wednesday, September 28, at the ex­
ercises in connection with the open­
ing of the acadeipic. year at the Uni­
versity of West Virginia, Morgan- 
iown, W. Va. The exercises, which 
were presided over by Dr. Trotter, 
President of the University of_ West 
Virginia, brought out the fact that 
ilie' growth of that school has been 
steady and normal, and that it will 
expand in the coming year by the 
addition of several new buidings. 
Dr. Baker was accorded a very warm 
welcome, and it was proven to him 
that the work of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology is well known 
and recognized by the sister institu­
tion.
The subject .of Dr. Baker’s address 
was the coming Disarmament Con­
ference. In discussing the military 
situation in France, the speaker 
said:
The question of disarmament in 
France or at least a reduction in 
ihe eize of the French army is like­
ly to be complicated by what is tak­
ing place at the present time in 
Germany. There are many indica­
tions that the Germans will default 
on the next payment of the indem­
nity. -There are financiers who be­
lieve that.it is a physical impossibil­
ity for the defeated nation to pay 
the charges which the Allies have 
lixed. They point to the rapid de­
preciation of the mark which has 
taken place in the last few weeks. 
They *explain this fall in the value 
oE German currency by the extra­
ordinary efforts which were necessary 
in order to meet the payment that 
lias recently toeen made. Germany 
has prjuted a vast amount of paper 
currency and with it has bought 
«old' wherever she could. The res.ult 
is an inevitable depreciation in Ger­
man exchange.
There are others who maintain 
that Germany is fully able to pay. 
They say that Germany is the • only 
eountny1 in the world where there is 
'no great amount of unemployment. 
Her factories are at work and are 
creating wealth. They claim that 
German .financiers are playing fast 
and loose with their country’s finan­
ces, that they are quite willing to 
provoke a crises. They say with un­
questionable conviction that if Ger 
many had1 been victorious 6he would 
have found means to* collect every 
penny of her indemnity.
It will be a serious tiling for 
I'Yance if the reparations are 
vised. It will be a blow to her sense 
of justice, to her pride which has 
received many ‘'shocks since the 
armistice and' it will affect seriously 
(Continued on Page Two)
New Faculty
Appointments
Some Teachers Come From 
Pitt ForTMew Courses
New Appointees—The following 
new appointees were announced by 
President Hamerschlag at the first 
General 'Faculty meeting:
College' of Engineering—W. L. 
Remick, of Harvard University, in­
structor in mining engineering; Dr. 
Walter F. Rittfan of Columbia Uni­
versity, bead1 of the department of 
commercial engineering; John Tuck­
er, Jr., Stevens Institute, instructor 
drawing and machine design.
College of Fine Arts—Waiter H. 
Klar, Frederic C. Clayer, Misses Su­
san Canfield and Huldah Kenley, 
transferred from the University of 
Pittsburgh; Will Earhart, of the city 
schools; Norwood ^lacGilvray, Pratt 
Institute; -C. A. Bayard, Carnegie 
Institute; Alexander Wyckoff, instruc­
tor in scene design; Harry Stern- 
field, Ecole des Beaux Arts and 
American Academy in Rome, a for­
mer member of the faculty; Miss Jean 
D. Seaman, vocal department, School 
of Music.
Margaret Morrison . Carnegie Col­
lege—Miss Jane Fales, Columbia 
Universty, .head of department. of 
costume economics; Miss Adele 
Jones, Columbia University, profes­
sor of costume economics; Mrs. Ed- 
nah Norton Cranna, Redfield College, 
and Simmons College instructor in 
secretarial studies; Miss Lucy M. 
Stierwalt, C. I. T., instructor in so­
cial work; Mrs. Mildred Spencer, C. 
I T., ’21, assistant instructor „ in 
science.
College of Industries—F. C. Ashe, 
Juniata College and C. I. T., ’15,' in- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
FIRST PLAY BY DRAMA DEPT.
MR. ASHE IS 
ON THISTLE
Is to be Faculty Advisor- 
Sales Campaign of Book 
is to Start Soon
PICTURES ARE NEEDED
At the meeting of the 1922 Thistle 
staff last Tuesday, Mr. Ashe was 
elected faculty advisor for this 
year’s book. Mr. Ashe is a member 
of the faculty in the Painting and 
Illustrating Department. He is an 
illustrator of wide repute.and is very 
much interested in the publication. 
The. staff can certainly eount itself 
fortunate in having a’man of such ex­
perience to advise them in. the de­
signing of their book.
The staff began work on the book 
last spring, starting with the spring 
athletics. The work has continued 
and in the near future class and 
Senior pictures will be taken. It is 
the idea of the staff to have the Sen­
ior pictures taken before Thanks­
giving. By doing this the staff will 
bey relieved of a lot of unnecessary 
rush and the Seniors themselves 
will be able to get their pictures be­
fore Christmas.
Snapshots always play an import­
ant part in the making up of the 
year book. Students are urged to 
send in their snaps of campus week,” 
“Poverty > Day,” “Plebe razing” aijd 
(Continued on Page Two.)
PLEBE SCHOLARSHIP 
AWARDS ANNOUNCED
QUALIFYING COURSES 
CONTINUE AT ARTS
In less than a week the first pro­
duction of the season will be present­
ed, in the Theater of the College of 
Fine Arts, by the Drama Department; 
to be exact, the "Song of Songs” opens 
a week from tonight, October 12. It 
will run from eight to ten perform- pected that a large number of candi- 
ances.’ It is feared, owing to the style ¡dates will make application for admis-
During the past two years the Col­
lege of Fine Arts has offered Saturday 
morning courses, called "Qualifying 
Courses,” to students of the high 
schools and preparatory schools of 
the Pittsburgh district. It is planned 
to repeat this work during the com­
ing school year. The subjects of in­
struction are freehand drawing, 
sketching, modeling, design, lettering, 
architectural drafting, wash drawings 
and music, including classes in har­
mony, ensemble playing, violin, violon­
cello, and all other instruments of the 
Symphony Orchestra. The purpose 
of these courses is to awaken talent 
and stimulate interest in the arts and 
to give to a number of promising stu­
dents an opportunity for testing and 
developing their natural ability; the 
work does not duplicate courses given 
in the high schools, but is intended to 
supplement the art instruction given 
elsewhere.
The qualifying courses will begin 
-Saturday, Octobeu 15, and continue 
through 'Saturday, May 13. As the 
fee for this work is nominal, it is ex-
The trustees of the Carnegie Insti­
tute df Technology last spring author­
ized the establishment of a limited 
number of Freshmen scholarships to 
graduates of the preparatory schools 
in Pittsburgh. The grants are -worth 
$100 per year for four years, and aro 
given to students of high rank in their 
preparatory school courses. The 
awards for 1921-22, announced by Dean 
Tarbell, chairman of the Committee 
on Scholarships, are as follows: 
College of Engineering—John H. As- 
pinwall, Edgar Bell, Albert Soucek, 
John G. Bright, Josiah Cohen, D. A. 
Gardner, Wade C. Herlit, L. H. Harris, 
John Heineman, Robert W. Lahr, F. 
M. McClelland, Francis iS. Maloy, Ray­
mond F. Riegelmeier, Fred C. Smith, 
Leo P. Stimmler, Francis Stone. 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 
•Caroling ¡L. Foight, Kathryn Gear 
jng, Louise Heymann, Adele Hollan­
der, Catherine Moren, Mildred Moren, 
Grace Munhall, Dorothy McConaghey, 
Rosemary McCambridge, Kathleen A. 
Nee, Wilma E. Steiner, Dorothy 
Weber.
College of Fine Arts—Bernadetto 
Marlier, Martin (Morganstenir iMajrJ- 
garet Welland. Lavina Silver.
of show, that is the beauty and color 
of its pageantry and its being princi­
pally a biblical story taken verbatim 
fromvthe Old Testament, that extra 
performances1 will have to be given. 
The demand for tickets, and the in­
quiries which, have come, into Dr. 
Baker's office indicate that a greater 
number of people are interested than 
has been the case for a long time.
Now comes the question of critics, 
which is a subject important both to 
the drama students and to those in­
terested in these productions. It has 
heen the policy of this paper in the 
Past to have one man, or woman, act 
as dramatic critic for the entire year. 
This year we wish to announce a new 
system, wiiereby a committee of men 
and women, both of the school and out 
of it, all of whom are well versed in 
matters Qf the stage, will take turns 
’•n criticizing the productions. No two 
productions will have the same critic, 
When an exceptionally important" play 
is produced we hope to be able to print 
the concensus of opinion of two or 
more of the critics.
It is felt that in this way no favor­
itism will beishown and it is hoped that 
No personal bias will enter into the 
criticism or the mind of the reader.
The cast and write-up of the "Song 
of Songs” will appear in next week's 
Tartan.
sion to these courses.
NEWMAN CLUB RECEPTION
The Newman Club held its recep­
tion for new' members in the Knights 
of Columbus club rooms at the comer 
of Dithridge and Fifth avenue on last 
Wednesday evening. A host of new 
people from Teen, Pitt, P. K3. W. and 
Duquesne University were welcomed 
formally by Father Sanderbeck and" 
very informally by the older members.
Afiter the reception there was a grand 
march, followed by dancing to the 
tune of Harrison Hollins' Best. Re­
freshments were served at twelve 
o’clock and dancing continued until 
one.
The Newman Club is composed of 
Catholic students from the four dif­
ferent schools and all those who have 
not yet enrolled are requested to put 
their names and addresses ou a card 
and drop in the postoffice for Mr. 
Eppler.
Students who are going to com- *>-
• pete for a fall trip to Penn- *
• State, should call immediately *
• at either the Alumni Office or *1* 
' Graduate Manager's Office in * 
- the Industries Building for infor- *
• mation and stamps as soon as *
• possible, so that this campaign *
• will get started. *5*
. •£< 
? *> 'I* *£• •{* -J* •!* *$? *5* v
The Graphica
Banquet Held
Prof. Hoyle Talks—Plebes 
Guests of Upper-Classes
TARTANS WIN 
HARDBATTLE
Sawyer Makes Only Touchdown of 
Game in Third Quarter---Geneva 
Made no First Down. Robinson 
Plays Fine Game
TEAM SHOWS IMPROVEMENT
Forty men of the printing depart­
ment, the largest number on record, 
attended the Graphica banquet held 
at. the Y. W. C. A. Hospitality 
House, Thursday, September 29. The 
Freshmen printers were welcomed 
and accepted as members of the club.
"The Graphica-is one of the most 
influential of, the organizations, and | 
is the fastest growing organization ini 
the College of Industries,” said Prof. I 
Hoyle in his speech of welcome to 
the twenty-five new printing stu-,
dents present. Mr. Martin, Mr. |
Creech and Mr. Thacker, the print-j 
ing instructoz*s, each added: a word 
of greeting to -the new men. Mr. 
Thacker was taken into the club as 
an honorary member.
Mr. Geist and Mr. Gruber, former 
Graphica. men who were present, 
each gave a short * talk to the
Graphica men. Mr. Tundy «md Mr.
Travis spoke for the Freshmen and 
Mr. Dickman spoke for tlio upper­
classmen.
It is planned by the club to have 
a banquet meeting at legist twice a 
month during the coming year and 
mako the Graphic^ the livest club 
at Tech.
COUNCIL PRES. 
HAS RESIGNED
F. I. Smith Leaves Council 
Owing; to Scholastic Work
NEW NIGHT COURSES 
STARTED THIS YEAR
DORM ELECTIONS
Interviews and registration for the 
night courses took place Wednesday, 
Thursday and Friday evenings of last 
week. Classes as scheduled began 
work on Monday. The registration 
this year is fair in view of the pres­
ent economic situation. It is oxpocted 
that there will bo a gradual increase 
in the registration during the first few 
weeks.
One of the special courses given in 
tho College of Engineering is Roll 
Pass Design; conducted by Professo^* 
Trinks, and planned to meet the needs 
of engineers, draftsmen, rolling mill 
superintendents, foremen, roll design­
ers and turners. 'Another course 
which was not given last year is In­
dustriali Hygiene, offered by Dr. Rush 
on Friday ovenings, dealing with oc­
cupational dlsoasos and the Improve­
ment of the environment of tlió work­
er, Industrial Hygiene is one of a 
(Continued on Page Four.)
On September 29 the dormitories 
held their elections. The dormitory 
officers have direct supervision of 
order and activities1 in their build­
ings. . The results were as follows: 
DORMITORY ELECTIONS 
The men’s dormitories held their 
elections for officers with the fol­
lowing results:
HENDERSON HALL 
S. H. 'Anderson, president.
------— Poloma, vice president.
Vincent Roy, secretary and treas­
urer.
Scherger and Poloma, floor man­
agers.
McGILL HALL 
Ted Hughes, presidenL 
Mark Heer, vice president.
P. W. Willis, secretary and treas 
urer.
Olsen and Gorman, floor managers.
WELCH HALL 
J. McCarthy, president.
Frank Trechsel, vice president.
W. M. Cummins, secretary.
George Slye, treasurer.
Hootman, floor manager.
SCOBEL HALL 
Johnson, president.
Martin, vice president.
Kaufman, secretary.
Red Morse, treasurer.
BOSS HALL 
L. J. Whitehead, president.
H: K. Burr, vice president. 
Berglund, secretary.
Ross, . treasurer.
Mitchell, Sealey and Pelican, floor 
managers.
MUSICAL CLUBS ARE OFF
on the Biggest Season 
Its History
ARTS PLEBES ELECTION
President—Leo Malloy.
Vice President—Betsy Lindsey. 
Secretary—Elizabeth Burkhardt. 
' Treasurer—Harry Mervis.
NEW M. M. C. COURSE
Miss Emilie Ray Bowman has an 
nounced the opening of an extensive 
new-course which should appeal to a 
great many girls. Miss Bowman will 
instruct a class in golf and any one 
interested is asked to see her about 
it at once.
With a record turnout of almost one 
hundred new men and with half that 
number of insignia men, the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs this year will no doubt 
be the best in the history of the 
school if not one of the1 best clubs in 
the country. Not only have the clubs 
an increased financial backing, but 
both Directors Hodgen and Scalzo and 
both Student Directors Johnson and 
Kovach are back to help make the 
clyibs a record breaker.
There i3 still room for more men 
talented along musical lines and new 
men trying out for the Glee club are 
urged to present themselves at the 
Exhibition Hall in Design School and 
Mandolin club men in the Union on 
Sunday afternoon at 2:30 p. m.
Manager Jordy is hard at work on 
the trips and announces the tenta­
tive schedule which includes the fol­
lowing concerts: Mayview, Edge-
wood, Tarentum, New Kensington, 
Younstown, Cleveland, Painsville 
Erie, Buffalo, Connellsville. Besides 
these there are a few local concerts 
at P. C. W. and the Home Concert. 
The Pittsburgh Clan is also working 
on an Easter trip and important de­
velopments will probably be brought 
to light soon.
One of the big features this year 
will be the novelties and they v/ill 
take a good portion of the program. 
A Novelty Dance orchestra lias al­
ready been started and from early 
indications promises to not only make 
a hit at the concerts; but also to find 
a place in the hearts of the dancers. 
Another feature which promises to be 
a hufndinger is a black face comedy 
-".nd musical number by O. B. Newman, 
the silvery toned singer from Ala­
bama, and Web Cunningham, the lo­
cal near-beer tenor.
Last call for tryouts. Don’t forget 
I Sunday afternoon. ,
. After fighting neck and neck with Geneva College for two quarters, 
the Carnegie Tech steam roller started, and rolled the orange-jorseyed men 
from Beaver "upon the sod” for a 7-0 victory last Saturday on Tech Field. 
The game was replete with thrills galore, thrills of the kind that set the 
spectators agog with excitement. The game while being a disappointment to 
the students and adherents of Tech, was just that type of a game which 
non-partisan spectators love to see, for throughout the game it was at all 
times “anybody’s game.” Geneva fought for every inch of ground gained by 
the fast Tech backs as they either skirted the ends or plunged through the 
line. Too much cannot be said in favor of the team as sent down by Geneva. 
Coach Bridenbaugh has developed a great little tqam, little only because it Is 
representing a class of school not as largo as Carnegie, but when it comes to 
class of football, it is a groat little team, and wherever it goes, will give a 
good account of itself. It was most unfortunate in having to meet such
teams as Pitt and Carnegie Tech in the first two games of tho season, but
this cannot but work for its distinct advantage, for right in tho beginning it 
is getting the advantage of running up against what aro destined to develop 
into great teams before the present season has advanced far. It is freely
»¡•predicted that ere tho season has
ended, Genova will liavo given many
teams a decided sot-back. In a line, 
thoro is not much lo ask for. It 
showed a wonderful ability to break 
through and throw Tech backs for 
losses. Time arid tlmo again, tho Go* 
neva forwards broke through and 
smeared forward passes. But, With 
this ability, the team was unable to 
hold with a degroo of consistency 'euf- 
flclontv to hold tho Tech backfield from 
plunging around and through for tho 
ono lone touchdown nocossary to as­
sure victory for tho Plaid. Luck 
played a great part in keeping tho 
score down. Again, penalties did the 
same, for on ono occasion, Just after 
a brilliant ond run by Anderson for 
Tooh, holding: was detected on tho part 
of a Plaid forward, and the ball was 
brought back for a fifteori yard pen­
alty. But along the line of ponaltlos, 
VVO distinct improvement was noticed 
ovor the game of lust week with 
Thiol, for there wort) not near so 
many penalties inlllotod through. off­
side errors.
From tho Tooh side of tho ledger, 
to place crodit for the victory on 
any one’s shoulder would not be 
right to the rest1 of the team. Per­
haps the malh credit for victory can 
bo traced |:o* the wonderful stone­
wall defense as put up by the Car- 
nogLp Tech line. This line hold with 
consistency, for not a single first 
down did Genova make, always hav­
ing Lo depend upon punting,. and 
ovon In this department of tho game, 
the Plaid kickers excelled. Ander 
«on did good punting while lvo was 
called upon, as did Newman In his 
one opportunity. But, ovon in tho 
line work of ToCli, thoro wrero part« 
that can boar criticism. From their 
work, It was plainly evldont that 
work during tho past woek was 
spent not, in enough offonsivo, for 
tho lino showed a sad Inability to 
hold when Tech. backs- were carry­
ing the bail. Tliie without a doub.t 
did quite a. largo bit In keeping 
down the score. It is expected that 
this will be remedied before the 
coming game with Westminister this 
Saturday on Tech Field.
Weiirman, Robertson, Brumbaugh 
and Sawyer showed up exceptionally 
well in riming interference for both 
Wierman and Robertson in their 
trips around the extremities. Mills 
when he had replaced Brumbaugh 
showed a mighty ability to hit the 
line for big gains, and he was most 
instrumental in scoring the lone 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Tho Student Counioll at its regular 
meeting this . .week . appointed . Miss 
Roy Fine, Fritz. Bowdrs, P. J. Un­
sinker and >C. F. Johnson as a four- 
schools Plobo Regulation Commit­
tee. This committee is to handle 
only exceptional .eases appealing for 
exemption from regulations. Its do- 
clslon will be final. By action oC 
last yoar’s council • all short coursfr 
and! Federal Board FreSlimdn are 
exempt from regulations. After Oc­
tober 10 all Freshmen arid others lia­
ble to Plobo regulations must liavo 
either exemption cards oi^ Plobo in­
signia.
Owing to scholastic work the .presi­
dent of the Council, F. I. Smiiili, 
lias found it nocossary to resign 
Ills position. Plans wore made 
hold elections this week In tho dlfl'°r- 
ont colleges for nomlneos to the po­
sition. Tho new president will be 
sol'octed from these nomlneos by the 
council at its next mooting. The 
now council head will be prosohtod 
Lo Llio students at Gonoral Assembly 
October 12.
It was decided to submit a recom­
mendation Lo GraduaLo Manager 
Haaren lhat a section of the bleach­
ers be set aside for tho exclusive 
use of the students at the football 
games. Such reservation will tend 
to make better cheering and bettor 
parades and snake dances between 
halves.
Tryouts will be held at tho vari­
ous assemblies this week for school 
cheerleaders. The successful ones 
will then demonstraLe their abilities 
at General Assembly, after which 
the head cheerleader for Carnegie 
will be elected.
Plans for Varsity Night are pro­
gressing nicely and it promisee to 
be very successful. J. A. Willard 
was appointed permanent chairman 
of this committee.
Permission was granted the Arts 
Sophomores to give their annual 
dance for Arts Plebes on October 28. 
Permission was also granted for 
holding football dances on the nights 
of October 8, 22 and 29. Nation and 
Reid were appointed a committee to 
pass on all dance petitions and rec­
ommend their dispositions to the 
council.
J. A. Willard, newly elected presi­
dent of the Arts Senate, was present 
for his first meeting as a council 
member.
DR. BAKER IN EUROPE
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, the Secretary 
of the Carnegie Institute ot Tech­
nology, returned to his office last 
week after .spending the summer in 
Europe’.
Doctor Baicer spent the early part 
of the ¿{mimor in London and then 
went to. Berlin and Paris, where he 
had unusual opportunities for study­
ing economic conditions.
While in. Paris he saw several 
time« Messieurs Dirks and Draz who 
graduated last year In the Depart­
ment of Architecture. They are con­
tinuing their studies at the Kcolo 
des Beaux Arts.
BUCKEYE SMOKER
FRIDAY NIGHT
The Buckeye Club of Ohio extends 
a -cordial invitation to all men hail­
ing from our fair state to a smoker 
which will be held in the Carnegie 
Union, October 7 (next Friday night). 
This smoker will be the first of a 
long series of events planned by the 
organization for the coming year.
It is the purpose of the Buck­
eye Club to promote the interest of 
“Dc-ar Old Tech” throughout Ohio 
and the co-operation among Lho stu­
dents in college from that State.
CITMAS CLUB
MEETING TONIGHT
The CItmas Club will hold the 
first meeting of tho year tonight In 
Science Club room. There will be a 
business meeting followed by a
smoker. All Masons are Jnvitod and 
urged to attorni. This organization 
is planning to hold some ’interesting 
meetings and entertainments this 
year and urges everyone In the fra­
ternity to attend.'
I

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1921
©arlan
Published every woek by undergraduate» of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology undor the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postofflce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES .................................... ...........  Kditor-in-Chlef
Telephono, Hazel 3571
WILLIAM R. MILLS ............................................................... Business Manager
Telephone—Schonley 9211
VIC. H. STROMQUIQT .............................................................. Managing Editor
Telephones—Schonley 9180 or Hiland 858
HELEN V. LEWIS........................................................................ Associate Editor
Telephone—Schonley 9079
EDWARD A. BRAND .......................................................................... Nows Editor
Telephone—Schonley 9070
HERBERT L. MOERSFELDER .................................................... Athletic Editor
Telephone, Schonley 3941
H. SIMPSON .................................................................. Assistant Athletic Editor
R. II. GUYTON ................... .............................................................. Photographer
H. I). SONNIÜMANN ............................................................ Advertising Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211 
E. L. JIIELLY ...................................................................... Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Bogue, I-I. F. Dieter, A. Lubin, B. R. Beiver, F. I. Bechtel, Vincent 
Roy, P. C., McKenzie, John Feeney, H. H. Lefhowltz, H. II. Wilson, K. L. 
McKeo, W. J. Bolton.
J. M. Cooper
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. SowersR. U. Porter
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student'interest. If signed, 
signature will be withheld it desired. All news items must be in the student 
post'olllce before 4:30, Friday.
The Tartan OiTice, Room A-5 Industries Building. Oillce hours: 11:30
to 1:30 Mondays and Wednesdays.
NOT A SCIENCE MAN—A CARNEGIE TECH MAN
There exists between the students of the three colleges for men, 
a feeling not of jealousness or of covetousness, but one of mild con­
tempt and selfishness. Science men frown on the apparent laziness of 
the Arts School students and hold Industries men. in disdain; because 
they say that the scholarship standard of the College of Industries is 
not up to the standard of the College of Science and Engineering. 
The attitude of Science men is just an example—the students of the 
other two schools have a somewhat similar feeling.
The reason for such an attitude is ignorance. If Science men 
were well enough acquainted and knew more of the nature of the 
Work of the students of the other two colleges, such a feeling would 
not exist.
As a means of bringing together the students of the three col­
leges for men, two 'years ago a combined Junior class banquet was held 
and it was a success. Last year the Plebes had their first annual Fresh­
man frolic and the Seniors had their afternoon teas. The Seniors 
of this year plan to combine in all class ma.ttcrs and social functions. 
To the Juniors, Sophomores and Plebes—why not; combine this year? 
It has been the practice or custom for the Plebes and the Sophomores 
of each school to have their own separate banquet. Why not. com­
bine this year? Let all of us get together as closely as possible. Let 
us be, not Science or Industries men, but Carnegie Tech men.
Happenings on ttie CampusM. M. C. NEWS
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
liost Wednesday, the College of In­
dustries held its usual weekly as­
sembly. President Godden held, the 
chair and handled the assembly very 
creditably. The election for secre­
tary of the assembly was declared 
in order, and the final count found 
F. Fsher, '23, leading the field by 
a large margin.
President Godden then made the 
following appointment«:
Sophomore Marshalls (whoso du­
ties are to see that the Plebes get to 
Assembly.)
Berglund 
'Berryman 
Pittman
Senior Representative to Plebe 
Regulations Committee:
C. F. Johnson.
Committee on Club Room Manage­
ment:
E. Naah, *22 
L. T. Johnson, ’23 
W. W. McCullum, ’24
Committee on Athletics:
J. J. McCarthy, ’22 
II. W. McCaw, ’23 *
Cy Comfort, '24.
'Committee on Student Deportment: 
P. J. Moore, ’22 
A. F. Eichorn, '23 
O. W. Jones, '24.
Committee of Student Organiza­
tion:
D. F. Cassidy, ’22.
An announcement was made tihat 
a free trip to the Tecli-Penn-State 
game would be given to the upper­
classman and Plebe who sold the 
most stamps for the game. It was, 
however, stipulated, that the winner 
must sell over 250 stamps.
President Godden lias promised a 
number of “lively” assemblies, and 
it is up to every upperclassman, as 
well as PlebeB, to give themselves a 
real treat by going every Wednesday
TRI-COLLEGE VESPER SFRVICES
Those'Of you who have attended 
the vesper services at Design the 
j last two Sundays have come to know 
what a wealth of benefit with which
DEAN SCALES AT
M. M. ASSEMBLY
; you went back home. To you and to
•any who may not be ' fortunate
enough to be able to attend the Sun- 
jdjay services, there will be the 
I Thursday artertioon vespers at the 
Bellefield Baptist Church, at the cor- 
j ner of Bayard and -Bellefield. The 
1 cabinet composed of representatives 
from Pitt, P. C. W. and .Tech stu- 
j dents, met last week and letters were 
read from Dr. Harry Beecher Ward. 
Jane Adams, Rabbi Wise of New 
York City, Dr. Calkins of Springfield. 
Mass., whom the Eaglesmere girls of 
last year loved so well, concerning
their , coming to address the student
body from the three schools. "With 
big men like this, there is no queS' 
tion that'Tech will be strong in sup' 
porting these services. The first 
service will be announced early in 
November.
ARTS ASSEMBLY
STUDENT CALENDAR
Friday, October 7—Buckeye Club Smoker .......................
Saturday, October 8—Football Dance .............................
Saturday, October 22—Football Dance ............................
Saturday, October 29—Football Dance ...........................
REGISTRATION STATISTICS
Union
Union
Union
Union
On the following table the registration in the various Colleges at the end 
of the first week of the semester is given. Tlio total number of day stu- 
donts rogistorod is 2,313, which is a few more than were registered at the 
corresponding period of last year. A number of additional short course stu-
dento will report, for registration during t.he next ton days.I
Fino Arts . 
Industrien
Science and Engineering 
Division of Co-oporntive
Total ........................ 27
•at•o
a?3
G‘2S•aX.Or>g3
HiFoU1¦<C/)H
•1250270189778435
309 G1201202235915
30375021382021388
170173200272-1787-1
20121
27300<1004fi8719333702313
PonnStato'****•:• V
Sure. Be suro by buying stumps,
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits....................$300,000.00
. Deposits, Over - - - $4,000(000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable
prices. 
3719 Forbes St.Oakland
“fitter Every Meal"WRfGLEYS
SKIBO INN |
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, |
WHOLESOME ^ 
FOOD
Served at best prices | 
CIGARS CANDY ?
FOR REAL HOME COOKING
---------Try-------
HOSPITALITY HOUSE 
CAFETERIA 
4246 FIFTH AVENUE 
The Friendly Place.
The second Arts Assembly was as 
well attended as the first, which 
means that the Little Theater was 
{ practically . filled. As is the custom 
I at Arts, the Plebes sat down front 
where they could be seen and not 
heard.
Carl Reid presiding, the assembly 
was opened with our Alma Mater, 
followed' by an election. E. Hughes 
was elected vice president of the 
College of Pine Arts to fill the va­
cancy caused by the absence of 
Hugh Torbert. Thomas Hinkley was 
elected as Senior Representative bn 
the Board of Student Activities. F. 
Bowers was elected as the Junior 
representative,
It was decided that the girls ot 
Arts should be represented on the 
Student Council and steps will be 
taken n that direction.
C. E. Landefeld, editor-injchief of 
tho 1922 Thistle, told of the amount 
of work connected with the publish­
ing of the year book and urged every­
body to assist, especially by handing 
in “snappy snapshots.” 1-Ie’announced 
that Senior pictures would be taken 
soon, «ilso the different classes and 
organization pictures, so that they 
would be completed before Thanks­
giving.
President. Reid pointed out that 
December 10 might be a good date 
for the annual Art Students ball in­
stead of Februaiy 17. Opinion was 
divided and the question was left 
open for discussion at a Inter date. 
Also tho type of ball for this year 
is under consideration. The Alumni 
will be tusked to contribute their 
idea« which are always good and it 
is expected tha,t the Arts ball this 
year will surpass any other.
Treasurer Highberger gave his re­
port which showed practically ?100 
in the school treasury.
Jack Franklin annouuced that there 
will be regular Wednesday afternoon 
d'ance in the foyer.
MARGARET MORRISON
RESTAURANT
It is yet undecided whether the 
Margaret Morrison Restaurant will 
be operated in the evenings this fall. 
Miss Smith,- who has /charge, will an­
nounce her arrangements in a couple 
of weeks.
The Margaret Morrison Assembly 
last Wednesday was again crowded 
so that even the aisles and standing 
room were occupied. The assem­
blage was led in devotionals by Dean 
Breed.
Dean Scales then talked on “Grow- 
I ing Up.” She said that we are con- 
| stantly fighting a child impulse to 
, be dependent and take the easier 
road. She spoke of us being on, our 
own honor to do the righit thing. 
We until coming to college, have 
been told what we could and could 
j not do and we had a sort of delight 
in doing just the opposite. But now 
we are ore. or less, responsible for 
our actions, and it depends . upon 
those actions what sort of a person 
we “grow up” to be. Now is the 
time to train our hearts and minds 
in the way that they should go.
Everyone enjoyed Dean Scales’ 
talk and will remember it for ai long 
time.
After the assemblage had been 
turned into a regular Studi nt Gov­
ernment meeting, Mr. Wardell, as­
sistant graduate manager, came in 
and told us all about*" the thrills of 
the Penn-State game and the Way to 
get to it—free- and otherwise.
The assembly closed with the sing­
ing of the Alma Mater.
MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Lunch—40c 
A Students’ Restaurant 
For the Students 
Reasonable Prices.
TE^
FOR
FIVE CENTS
B130The Flavor Lasts!
MELLON HALL PARTY
The Mellon Hall girls entertained 
6ome of their friends at a party on 
Saturday night. Talent from their 
own house furnished music for danc­
ing. About twenty-seven couples 
attended the party and every one 
enjoyed this first function of the 
year to the fullest extent.
SECRETARY, SPEAKS
IN WEST VIRGINIA
(Continued From Page One) 
her financial status. During and 
since the war the fiscal program of 
France h&6 been based largely on 
the idea that Germany would pay 
the costs of the war. She has had 
to change her position a good many 
times, but a large reduction in the 
reparations which have been agreed 
upon by the Allies and which the 
Germans have promised, ' will be 
vewed with consternation in France. 
Naturally, there will be little thought 
of a smaller army at such a time 
as this. i
Changing to the topic of European 
student in connection-wilh the pres­
ent conditions, Dr. Baker spoke as 
follows:
“I wish to refer to the part that 
students are playing at the present 
time in Germany. The bulk of the 
population, certainly in Prussia, is,
I believe, genuinely Republican. 
Among the students, this is not the 
case. It is estimated that at least 
seventy-five per cent of the student 
body, in the German Universities, is 
Royalist. I believe this is partly a 
pose. Students think it is good form 
to stand fOr the old regime, but 
there are many who are genuinely 
convinced that Germany has been be­
trayed and lia.s gotten into the hands 
of self-seeking and unpatriotic men. I 
They believe that it is their duty to f 
recreate a better national spirit and 
if possible to rid the Fatherland of 
the traitors who have sold out their 
country. It is quite ptssible that 
they feel that the present period is 
for Germany similar to the years 
that followed immediately the Na­
poleonic wars. At that time'you will 
remember, the students were active in 
reviving the German National spirit. 
Student societies were formed with 
a., high patriotic purpose. These so­
cieties still exist and they .are still 
t.he champions of monarchy. It is 
difficult to determine (whether the 
students are doing anything more 
than to talk vaingloriously. They 
may be n part of an extensive un­
derground net work of organizations 
which are working for the restora­
tion of the monarchy. The murderer• 
of Erzberger has not been discover­
ed, but ’there are grounds for believ­
ing that life was a member of one of 
these . student organizations. Erz­
berger was regarded by the Royal­
ists as one of the greatest traitors 
to the German cause. He was a 
marked man. The French newspa­
pers claim that more than three 
hundred political murders have been 
committed since the armistice.”
MISS HOLLIDAY TALKS
AT Y. W. C. A.
The first Y. W. C. A. meeting of 
the year Monday was turned over 
to Miss Dorothy Holliday, who is 
traveling through some of the east­
ern colleges for the Student Volun­
teer movement. The Rec Hall was 
filled with girls who listened to what 
Mies Holliday had to tell them—and 
each girl took ^omethng away with 
her to help her in her daily social 
contact with others.
The Eaglesmere girls remember 
her from t£e Eaglesmere Conference 
where she was not only very promi­
nent in the Student Volunteer move­
ment, but also in the athletic coh­
eats.
Miss Holliday was raised in India 
until she came to the United States 
to attend school. Her mother and 
father are both in India as mission­
aries, and she will return shortly. In 
¡a meeting at Eaglesmere, she told 
of her experiences and said that 
though everyone thought it most nat­
ural • and thrilling that she go back 
—yet. for her—there was not the 
glamour and adventure that one al­
ways feels at the approaching em- 
barkment for a far country. For she 
already knew the natives, the cus­
toms, the intense heat and1 the1 dusty
ipillliU ................
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
lirilinmi1IIIDIIIIII1l[ll[mil!l!!lllllllli;ill!ll!llll!iIli;il!ll!!lllll!lll!!!lllll!!UIIIIIII]III1ID!ni]ut
roads, and the discouragements— 
along with the good old feeling of 
service.
HOUSEHOLD CLUB NOTES
The Household Economics Club has 
started activities for the year. On 
Tuesday night they were served din­
ner in the Recreation Hall, which 
of course proved one of the “feature.-' 
of the evening.”
Tbe entire club then adjourned .to 
the -Practice House where a very in­
teresting experience meeting wa>; 
held Several of the Seniors had. 
anecdotes to tell of their experiences 
during the summer.
Misses Marion Layton, Sarah Hen­
derson and Marion Perkins were 
student dieticians in the Presbyte­
rian Hospital. Miss Helen Reed 
was at Sunset Lodge near Chicago, 
Misses Ruth Jones and Mabel Sny­
der were with a Girl Scout camp 
and Misses Mabel Hiller and Mar­
garet Kimmel were dieticians at the 
Children’s Hospital.
“Parties at the Practice House”: js 
an expression which has come to 
mean a delightful time, in the vocab­
ulary of every “Household Ecec,” 
and this one was certainly one of 
the best.
Miss Helene Pope, the fairy god­
mother of the club, and Miss Marion 
Layton, its president, have worked 
out a tentative program of activities 
up until Christmas, and the girls 
are looking forward to an unusually 
busy and interesting year. .
MR. ASHE IS ON THISTLE
(Continued From Page One.) 
especially snap shots that can be used 
in the “personal section.” A print 
of the picture or the negative itself 
¿hould be given to any member of 
the Thistle staff.
A new photograph section for this 
year’s book Is under way. This ’is 
a section to contain new pictures of 
the campus buildings, dorms and the 
more "fam'ilia'i-” 'views in Schenley 
Park. While many”other school year 
books contain such a section this is 
the first year 'the Thistle has ever 
publshed one.
Considering the elaborate work be­
ing done on this year’s book J it is 
remarkable that the price will not be 
increased over that of last year's 
book. In order <to guard itself 
against financial loss the staff finds 
itself necessary to limit the 
number of copies printed and only 
those who subscribe for the Thistle 
can secure a copy.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRAUY
Squirrel Hill Tailoring Company
Work Called for and Delivered.
Suits Dry Cleaned, Sponged and Pressed
Alterations Our Specialty.
1921 MURRAY AVENUE PHONE—HAZEL 1753
M. M. SENIORS
Will all Senior girls please write 
! indelibly on their minds—or their 
cuff6, “Monday, 12:45”—the regular 
class .business meeting? '
mamusmm
PLEBES 
If your clothes need to be 
cleaned, pressed or mended, call 
Schenley 389.
Suits called for and delivered. 
Prices Reasonable.
MISS O’LEARY 
3933 FORBES
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about |]| 
o I o th o a for tho next 
pnrty? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dresc Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
Preacher for Students
The Rev. R. Emory Beetham, _ 
D. D., minister of the Oak- |J 
land Methodist Church, ~ 
Forbes and Boquet Streets, || 
was selected for this pulpit jl 
with special reference to thé — 
students. Dr. Beetham was _ 
with the “Boys” in France ¡¡j 
for eight months. He was a g 
college president for seven {§ 
years. He knows college stu- g 
dents and has a message for jj 
them.
HEAR HIM REGULARLY B
Sunday Mornings at Eleven. ||
Vagabond Club, Bible ü 
Classes, Game Rooms, Social 
groups specially arranged for 
students.
RICHARD B. CALLAHAN 
DR. BEETHAM Director Student Work. jj
THE CHURCH HOUSE IS ALWAYS OPEN FOR STUDENTS j
i ____ 1
IMWBMWMIIIilMIIIIIIWMIIIfllilllliMlltlllHlilHHWWWMMMBWWWWBKBMMOMMHWMMMMMI
“Who Was John Hancock?”
asked Thomas A. Edison in his 
Employment Questionnaire
I ' '
We will pay One 
Hundred Dollars 
( $100) for the best 
answer to Mr. Ed- 
ison’s question.
Competition closes November 15,1921
ADDRESS
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLICITY
Life Insurance Company
tb atlDtnc eUllUNFIlODDl

---------------------------------------------------

assistant manager oL’ cross-country 
report to the Field Houáe any night 
at 4:30.
HOCKEY
NOTICE
Be at the G-ym Thurs­
day at 5 P. M. if you 
are interested.
about
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1921____________________________________________________________________________THE TARTAN_________________________________________________________________________________________________PAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Berao Defeats Marshall in 
Fast Three-Set Match
James A. Robertson
Robertson ('Science, Sophomore), 
age 19, weight 147 pounds, height 5 
eet.8 inches.
He is known to all the upper clans­
men for his excellent work at half­
back last year, from which he won his 
letter.
“Jimmie’' came from Allegheny 
High School, where he was a four-let­
ter man, having won letters in foot­
ball, baseball, basketball and track: ’
Last year he played left field on 
the baseball nine until late in the sea­
son, when he was forced out on ac­
count of an injuiy received during a 
game.
He won the 1921 Pentathelon and is 
a Druid pledge.
He is a member of the Kappa Sigma 
fraternity.
The annual Fall Tennis Tournament 
is advancing nicely, and will be fin­
ished this week, the final match be­
ing played .Friday afternoon. It is 
entirely too early to predict who will 
oppose each other in this match, but 
it can be said that the matclt. will be 
replete with thrills for there are a 
number of good men entered.
Among the matches played last 
week, perhaps the best was the one 
in which Berao eliminated "Rog” Mar­
shall to the tune of 1-6, 6-3, 6-1. Mar­
shall should have given a better ac­
count of himself in this match, but 
there are reasons why he did not, 
and perhaps.the best one is the good 
playing as set forth hy Berno. 
Berno showed a vast improvement 
over his game of last season. He is 
serving well and driving with terrific 
speed and accuracy. This, coupled 
with his natural ability to cover th'e 
court probably explained why Mar­
shall went down to defeat. Credit 
must be given to Marshall for being 
off his game, perhaps caused by a bit 
of that demon, “over-confidence.”
Copley, ’letter man of 1918, downed 
Boulton in two extremely hard-fought 
lets 6-4, 7-5. Boulton is a good player 
of the soft playing type, and this fact 
perhaps did more toward his down­
fall than any othey single item, when 
confronted by the slashing and driv­
ing game of Copley’s, for it must be 
admitted that when Copley is right he 
is a good tennis player.
Kemery, a new-comer at Tech show­
ed up wonderfully to advantage in his 
match against Van Buren, also a new­
comer. At no time during the match 
was the outcome in doubt. Kemery 
has a good drive, and slice stroke, 
which he mixes to perfection, making 
a most mystifying change of pace. His 
serves, while not speedy, have a most 
erratic bound, maldng it most hard to 
drive accurately off of. Kemery 
should make Tech a most valuable 
man in tennis this year.
Matches will be played on the Tech 
courts each afternoon and tennis eri-
A CONSTRUCTIVE CRITICISM
Spectators at the football game last week could not help but notice 
the crowds of juvenile 'rooters who promiscuously thronged on the hill back 
of the bleachers and on the fences, and also occupied seats in the grand­
stand when the opportunity presented itself.
Not that the enjoyment of seeing a football game is begrifdged them, 
but the fact .that their occupation of numerous seats in the stands.- which 
rightfully belonged to. students and others who have ppid for the privilege 
of . seeing the games, makes it necessary to appeal for adequate facilities 
to prevent entrance via ‘‘over thejfence” method.
This would he the fair thing to do, allowing only those who have the 
right, to occupy the seats in the stands.
Then, too, the present scoreboard doth not at all do credit to the field. 
It is not as conspicuous as might be desired. A large board-placed on the1 
Margaret Morrison building would be far superior to the present one. A 
board similar to those on other fields, donated by a newspaper, lor advertis­
ing purposes, might readily be obtained with some efforts in this direction, 
making a great improvement on the field.
The amount of interest shown with reference to the football games at 
Washington and State College and the requests for information concerning 
them indicates that there will be a great following of Tech rooters talcing
both trips. The W. & J. trip, which will take place on October 15th, will
probably consist of two special sections leaving Pittsburgh so. as to arrive 
in Washington to allow for the customary “peerade” led by the Tech band 
better this year than ever, and reaching the grounds about 15 minutes before 
the game. Present indications point to the possibility of the greatest crowd 
to ever see a football game there gravitating to Little Washington on this 
day. The whole Pittsburgh district knows and realizes how both coaches 
and squads kre pointing toward this game and are prophesying that it will
be the football classic of this section for this year. Full details as to the
special rates for the train, time of departure, where tickets may be obtained 
and other data will be given in the Tartan of next week. The special stu­
dent admission price will be 75 cents, which tickets will be available to 
students only upon presentation of registration cards. The general admis­
sion charge will be $1.50, reserved seats $2.50. Alumni may send in for 
reservations as soon as they wish, the orders being filled immediately upon 
receipt of the tickets from the W. & J. management. The same will apply 
to Penn State tickets, the reserved seat price being $2.50.
The Penn State Savings Stamp campaign has taken on a new impetus 
due to the .prizes offered by the Alumni Association of Science and Indus­
tries for the boys and by the Athletic Association for the girls, six prizes 
altogether consisting of a round trip to State College. Selling the stamps 
will not prove very hard in the face of the great amount of interest and it 
is hoped to make the entry list of contestants very large.
v The Penn-State special will * 
carry the liveist bunch of root- •!* 
ers that ever claimed Tech as * 
¦ their school. Are you going to v 
1 be one of them. You would like 
• to go. Of course we know * 
1 that; but what are you doing, * 
1 are you planning? The best *
FOOTBALL MEN HAD 
feTRENUOUS WEEK
“Wally," Steffen put his gridders 
through a rather strenuous workout 
during the last. week. He gave them 
( some good tips on signals. Many for- 
possible, and the surest plan is: *b mations were perfected and new ones
Drinker—Gimme a horse's neck!
Drunker—Make mine a 'orshe’s ta.il thusiasts would be assured of a good 
—ain’t no- ushe killin’ two 'orshes.— match should they take the opportun-1 will soon be 'too late.
Virginia Reel. I ity and come out. *1* ? ? -I* •!* *!• ? -b ? *I- *<• ? * ? *!- *i*
* BUY STATE STAMPS. You
* must start immediately to save,
* by getting a folder or you will * 
be left. Don’t put it off for it
tried out. As a preventive for for­
ward passing the Sldbos went through 
formations to prevent such actions 
from the Geneva eleven. On Wednes­
day the coach though some forward 
passing might do the eleven some 
good so he worked the squad in ,that 
branch. During the practice a light 
scrimmage was carried out and tho 
passing was improvod. Sawyer show­
ed the. results of his training and did 
some fine passing during scrimmago. 
Newman is doing his usual good punt­
ing and best of all the backfiold is 
moving very much fastor. The line is 
also improving by accelerating its 
charging. *
During the ^’eek no serious injuries 
were inflicted upon any member of 
the squad. Everyone on the squad 
was in tip-top sliapo for the game.
Coach • P&rk, also gave the reservo 
team some good workouts. Ho soon 
will have a team organized for tho 
games to be played soon. A tenta­
tive schedule has1 been announced, 
which is a:s follows:
I October 15-—Butler High School, at 
Butlcir, Pa.'
October 22—Westingliouse Tech, at 
Westinghouse.
October 29—Bellefonte Academy, at 
Bellefonte.
November 5—Rochester High School 
Rochester, N. Y.
November 12—-Slippory Rock Nor­
mal, there.
November 19— (pending).
A Gateway—Electrical
/r'VNLY a forty-foot gateway bounded 
by two brick pilasters and orna­
mental lamps, but it is unlike any other 
gateway in the entire world.
For back of it is the General Electric 
Company’s main office building, accom­
modating 2300 employees. And just 
next door is its main laboratory with the 
best equipment for testing, standardiz­
ing and research at the command of ca­
pable engineers. Then down the street a 
mile long—are other buildings where 
electrical products are made by the 
thousands of electrical workers who 
daily stream through.
Through this gate messages and repre­
sentatives from a score of other factories 
and over fifty branch offices come and 
go every hour—an endless chain of co­
ordinated activities carrying on and en­
larging the scope of over a quarter cen- 
tury’s work for the betterment of 
mankind.
What a story this gate would tell, if it 
could, of the leaders of the electrical in­
dustry and of ambassadors from other 
industries and institutions—and from 
foreign lands. The story would be the 
history of electric lighting, electric 
transportation, electrified industrials 
and electricity in the home.
Lost Here Last Year 21-0- 
Former Star Back, Coach
Westminster will be the opponent 
on Tech Field this week. From all in­
dications the Plaid should win handily, 
arid is therefore not giving tho foot­
ball mentor at Tech much loss of 
sleep. But, the team should not be 
allowed to become overconfident for 
just that will work more harm than 
any other single item. Overconfi­
dence did its deadly work down in 
Wheeling last year, and it should not 
be permitted to get the least bit of a 
grip on the squad this season.
Westminster is likely to prove a 
great big surprise to everyone of her 
opponents this year. She, like all the 
others, who journey to Tech Field, is 
coming to Pittsburgh, with confidence 
of beating her old rival, and at the 
same time, knowing full well that in 
order to tUvn said trick, t will have to 
play ‘the game of her life.
De Ormond (TussX McLaughry is 
hoad coach at the Presbyterian school 
this year, and this fact alone should 
make the Carnegie Tech team settle 
down to business. McLaughry is none 
other than one of the most famous 
fullbacks the country has ever pro­
duced. When he played on the West­
minster team ba(\Jc in 1912, 1913 and 
1914, he invariably defeated Carnegie 
Tech single handed by his great abil 
ity, and spirit. He is endeavoring 
to inject some of his spirit into the 
present squad, and if- ho should suc- 
eed, Tech had best beware.
Last year, Westminster lost to Tech 
by the score of 21-0. This was a most 
hard-fought game, and should bo 
laken as a criterion of what the game 
this week will bo like. The gamo 
with Baldwin-Wallace cannot bo taken 
as a. true estimate of her strength, 
and the fact that she lost might moan 
something in hor favor.
CROSS COUNTRY MEN 
HAVE FIRST TRIALS
On Friday afternoon the Plaid 
cross-country squad had it« first real 
test. The runners went the full
THE CHEER LEADER
Tliore is perhaps no position in col­
legiate life which requires a quicker 
mind and a stronger personality than 
that of College Cheer Leader. This 
statomont is made advisedly, and it 
takes into consideration tho number 
of offices in which collego men and 
women are constantly called on to ex­
ercise their highest powers. The 
Cheer Loader must control an audi­
ence at a high pitch of tension and 
enthusiasm—must arouse this enthu­
siasm when it is dormant. Ho must 
lead not only cheers but sentiment. 
He must not only know, but must fool, 
with the intuition of tho natural 
leader, the temper and sontimont of 
the audionco. It is a position for a 
man.
7'he method for the choosing of 
Cheer Leaders has in the past boon ex­
tremely vague. Tho good sense of tho 
school has been shown by the quality 
of the; men who liavo boon selected 
by the hit or miss method—such 
strong leaders as Henry Dietz and 
Sam Carnes. The more fact that wo 
have been fortunate in tho past does 
not warrant our trusting tho future to 
fortune, however.
It will soon bo time to chooso the 
Cheer Loader for the prosent yoar 
An upper classman must bo found 
who is able to handle the position and 
the school must give him their whole 
hearted support. That,is all that can 
be asked for the selection this y6ar.
Some provision should at this timo 
be made for the years' which are to 
come. Such an important position 
should not be filled by a man of un­
proven ability. Would it not bo wiso 
to make College Cheer Leader an of­
fice which must be worked up to by 
years of apprenticeship and which at 
the end is recognized by some definite 
symbol of honor—perhaps a Cheer
General OfficeCompanySchenectady, N. Y.
half miles. The time of each man 
was taken as he finished, the best 
time being about thirty-five finutes.
The new men showed up well. Kel­
ley, a Plebe, made a fine showing, 
finishing third best in the time. It 
was proven that green men who 
have had no experience often make 
good runners. Not as many men ae 
is desired are coming out for the 
sports More candidates especially 
from the Plebe class are urged to 
report at the Field House any night 
at 4:30 .and get into training.
The first meet is but a few weeks 
off. On& of the attractive meets at 
home is that with Lafayette, last 
year’s Eastern Intercoleglate cham­
pions. Another one . of particular 
interest is a triangular meet with „
Lehigh and Johns Hopkins at |Suth I wan-JorB of Penn .State at the Polo
Bethlehem. Others are still pend- G™.m , W"“ entlrely a stmlent
tag but a good sche/nle is assured. ?to,r the large sum needed to
Plebes wishing to try ollt fo,.^nsport the hand rom Atlanta to
York came entirely from stu­
dent purses. This shows that the men 
make up the undergraduate body 
the Georgia Tech are backing their 
team to the limit. They want to show
the Vall-knowing” Now Yorker some­
thing about football and something 
college spirit.
.{« ?$. J? .j. .j. * .j. -j- *!• .j. .j.
*<*
* Meeting of "C” Club Wednes-
* day, October 5, Varsity Club
?J* Room, <1:30 p. m. •:«
•J* *
take action, in order to insure future 
years agaiinst the situation which is 
facing us now.
And for the present, let us get the 
strongest upper classman possible and 
then back him to the limit. Because, 
though it is the leader who leads, it is 
the student body which cheers. Let 
us make good now, and insure the 
future.—The Black and Magneta.
GEORGIA TECH BAND TO. N. Y.
An Atlanta newspaper recently 
stated that the students of Georgia 
Tech have raised enough money to 
send their band to New York City on 
fihe twenty-ninth of October when the 
¡Golden Tornado meets the gridiron
TECH CAPTAIN
Alfred C. Irwin, Captain
Captain Irwin (Industries Senior), 
ago 21., weight 145 pounds. Although 
a light man to hold the position of 
center, Captaty Irwin has demonstrat 
od his ability to do this, in a most
rediUblo manner, for the. last two 
years. He is considered ono of tho 
host defensive player© on the team.
**A1” came to Tech from Washing­
ton and Jefferson, where he spent otia 
yeai. Ho was on their squad but ow­
ing to injuries received early in thft 
season was not able to finish out 
tho remainder.
Previous to tilts' he attended the 
Washington, Pa., High School, whore 
ho played both football and baseball.
Captain Irwin’s athletic ability is 
not limited to football. I-Ie has caught 
for Tech’s baseball team for two 
years. His other activities include: 
Member of tho Student’s Council anti 
of the Athlotic Council and prosideut 
of tho Sonlor Class, Industries.
He is a member of the Kappa Sigma 
fraternity.
MINING ENG. DEPT.
A statement of tho enrollment :ln 
tho Co-operative Dopartmont of Min­
ing Englnooring for the prosont schooj 
yoar shows that from a total of aifc 
mining onginooning students in tho 
yoar 1918 tho enrollment has increas­
ed t.o olghty-ono studonts this yoar, 
and it is tho hopo of tho dopartmont 
to further Incroaso this number to at 
loast one hundred by 1923. Tho com­
bined (Sènior. Junior and Sophomore 
classes number twenty-eight men, tho 
two year students number l’orty-sevon 
and besides thoso there are six men 
taking post-graduate work.
Throe of tho now laboratorios which 
wero Installed recently are now ready 
for uso, and Incroaso the facilities 
for practical instruction groatly. 
riioso laboratories aro tho òro dross- 
ng, tho coal washing and tho gonoral 
mining lab.
A TRADITION PLEBES!
Plebes are oxpectqd to work about 
tho campus. It is a school tradi­
tion. Freshmen should help on ail 
student enterprises, especially assist: 
in carrying out the athletic program. 
There ia always some work to bo 
done on the field reparing for tho 
games and other school events. 
When asked to do something hy art 
upperclassmen it should be donel 
There is a lot-of work that cannot be 
done by hired help; because it is im­
practical to employ help for a short 
period'; also expensive. If tho new 
men do not do their duty and show 
a good Tech spirit punishment will 
be resorted to by the upperclassmen.
GIRLS TRIAL AT ARTS
The first trial of the Plebe girls of 
the College of Fine Arts was held last 
Thursday at noon. Margaret Harmon 
was elected judge, Katherine Shuman 
was prosecuting attorney and Louiso 
Colebrook was clerk. There were 
fifteen victims held for various crimes 
such as wearing silk stockings, ap­
pearing without arm hands or talking 
to members of the opposite sex out­
side the hours permitted. The jury 
felt that as the janitors were a bit 
overworked the Plebes should help 
them out; a girl will scrub the stairs 
before /and after assembly; two will 
sweep the rugs in the aisles, during as­
sembly* and another will sweep the 
floor between each dance on Wednes­
day afternoon. Tooth picks will bo 
passed to the men as they onter as­
sembly and one girl will wear a baby 
cap, bib and spoon. All the Plobo 
girls are required to come to assembly 
and Wednesday/ afternoon dances, no 
that they will take an active part in 
the social life of tho school as woll as 
the academic.
IlerW-o—Don’t you want to go 
through tho science building?
Birdio-—Oh, no, dear, my hair looks 
mussed enough now.—Colgate Bantor.
QUARTER BACKFAST TENNIS 
IN TOURNEYOn The Plaid Screen
BY H. L. MOERSFELDER
WESTMINSTER 
HERE ON SAT.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1921
Remember W.&J. and Penn State Games, Oct. 15 and Nov. 5—Be There
CLAN NEWS
Clan Organization
A pamphlet containing the following 
information will hood ho ready for 
publication and distribution among all 
tho clans.
1. How to organize a clan.
2. By-laws governing tho clan«.
3. The connection between clans 
and Alumni Federation.
\. Some suggestion» for clan actlv- 
i ties.
in ordor for all clan meeting dates 
and results of meet Inga ho'printed in 
the Tartan, please report them to the 
Alumni office.
Johnstown Clan
C. L. Carroll, Industrie», '18, presi­
dent of tho Johnstown Clan, was in 
the Alumni office during the past 
week. Mr. Carroll says their clan is 
on the Job and expects to accomplish 
groat things during the year.
Cleveland Clan 
Harry .Gollln, Sclenco, '18, a mem­
ber of the Cleveland Clan, visited the 
Alumni office during the past week. 
Mr. Cellin stated that their clan would 
soon hold a meeting and could expect 
a report from them in the near fu­
ture.
SEE FOOTBALL GAMES, ALUMNI—HERE'S THE SCHEDULE
October 8........................................................................Westminster at Pittsburgh
October 15.............................................................................W. & J. at Washington
October 22.............................................................St. Bonaventure at Pittsburgh
October 20............................................................................Allegheny at Pittsburgh
November 5....................................................................Penn State at State College
November 11......................................................................Bethany at Pittsburgh
November 1».......................................................................Maryland at Pittsburgh
c. I. T. JOURNAL 
BIGGER AND BETTER
This year’s Journal Is going to be a 
real one. The size has been changed 
so that it will be tho same size as all 
thV leading magazines, which will 
make a much better appearing period­
ical. The subject' matter for the com­
ing year has beon\lven much careful 
thought and will represent tho very 
best obtainable. One of tho leading 
articles of an early summer will be 
on tho subject of “What I intend to 
do after I graduate.” Of course every 
one knows whether ho intends to be 
an electrical, mechanical, chemical or 
some other kind of an engineer, but 
very few students realize tho large 
number of subdivisions in each of 
those professions, and tho article in 
question alms to Inform tho student 
of these various branches. It is now 
hying prepared by a man who has had 
many years’ experience In dealing 
with college graduates. This alone 
should be worth the price of tho sub- 
neriptlon.
Tho staff are working hard and the 
only thing necessary to make tho 
journal a. succors fl» that :lt have 
tho Bupport of the studont body. This 
support can bo best oxprossod by 
buying a year’s subscription at ono 
dollar. So whon ono of tho agents ap­
proaches you and asks you to sub­
scribe, think It over carefully and 
back it up by paying your dollar. 
In this way we will all he boosting 
i larnogle and will have tho Journal 
tlmt our position ontlfclos us to.— 
IIOOST TECH, (HOT THAT SUB­
SCRIPTION NOW.
How aggravating it Is to have a 
fountain ipQW oV mechanical pondi 
balk Just whon you arc ready to Jot 
down a brilliant thought. Toll your 
troubles lo Singer Pen & (lift Shop 
!n Jenkins Arcade. Adv.
FOR BEST RESULTS 
SEE US
THE TECH SHOE 
REPAIR SHOP
.TAfiTANS WIN HARD BATTLE
The By-Laws 
Proposed For 
Alumni Ass’n
By Joint Constitutions Comm. 
For Inspection, Alteration 
or Ratification
BY-LAWS OF ALUMNI ASSOCIA­
TION
COLLEGE OF -------------------
i>!fSÍSEIc!MSJSJ31SJ3fii!/3J5J2MSJSMSJSlSMc!/S/p?l
AmericanRestaurant
3808 FORBES ST.
We serve cleanest food 
at a reasonable price. 
Open Day and Night.
rfi/SMSMSMS/SMSMSMSMSMSiSMSMSMSi
HOME COOKING
MOTHER DOES THE BAKING
Pleasonton Lunch 
4527 FORBES ST.
(Continued From Page One) 
touchdown. Sawyer'in his throwing 
of the forward pass, bore out all ex­
pectations of him in this depart­
ment of the game. Wierman, while 
in tho game continued the good work 
which has made him tihe idol of 
Tech football followers Robertson 
showed a tendency to ascend to a 
seat of equal favor with Wierman 
by his most brilliant playing. He 
was easily the outstanding star in 
tho baokfleld. Tho line worked as a i 
unit, and with perfection, with no 
star standing above the rest. The 
usual “gang” was there, and there 
with the goods!
The lone touchdown came as an 
immediate result of a perfect for­
ward pass, from Sawyer to Godden 
standing on about five-yard line, fol­
lowed by two lino bucks by Mills 
and Robertson, placing the ball on 
tho one yard line. Sawyer was then 
given tho opportunity to carry it 
over, aud lie succeeded Comfort 
kicked goal. This makes seven out 
of Beven for "Cy" in kicking goals 
alter touchdowhs. Tho lineup:
Potter ..................L. E. Tlppen (Capt.)
Comfort .............L. T............. Loefler
Henderson .......L. G....... McCracken
Irwin ((’apt.) ....C................ Hudson
Rosenbloora ____It. G............McGrow
Sprinkle .......it. L................. Lynch
Godden ...............R. E................... Harr
Wierman .............Q............ Lawronee
Sawyer ...............L. II............... Adams
Anderson ............R. II............... Denton
Brumbaugh -----F. B........... Krolzor
Score by Quarters.
TooU ................................0 0 7 0—7
Genova...............................o 0 0. 0—0
Substitutions- Geneva: Qrodel for
McCracken, lCoeher for Adams, 
Thomas for Lawrence, Kloo for 
Koohor; Hildebrand lor Denton, 
Hawkins for Grodol. Tech: Pittman 
for Brumbaugh, Mills for Pittman, 
Robertson for Wierman, liable for 
Potter, Now man for Godden, Lewis 
for Andorson, Ave for Henderson.
Touchdown—Sawyer.
Goal from , touchdown—Comfort.
Roferoo—Dougherty, W. and J.
Umpire—McFa.rlane, W. and J.
Head Linesman Blum, Pleasant 
Valley.
Time of quarters—15 minutes
ENUS
PENCILS
T^OR tho student or profH L I if tho superb VENUS out­
rivals idi for, perfect pencil 
work. ^ 17 black degrees and 3 copying.
American Lead Pencil Co.
NEW FACULTY APPOINTMENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
structor in building erection; C. B. 
Holter, Buclcnell, part time nstruc- 
tor in chemistry; Edward Thacker, 
instructor in department of printing.
Division of General Studies—Miss 
Pauline A; Humphreys, University of 
Chicago, Columbia University, asso­
ciate professor of phychology; C. C. 
Crawford, University of Texas, in­
structor in psychology; T. W. 
Burekhalter, formerly at University 
of Pittsburgh, associate professor of 
physical education; Arnold F. Fink, 
Springfield College, instructor in 
physical ^education.
Division of Co-operative Research 
—Dr. A. J. Wurts, Research Profes­
sor of Electrical Engineering; Dr. 
Max Sclioen, University of Iowa, re 
search work iu psychology of mu 
sic; Dr. Benjamin W. Robinson, Un 
iversity of Iowa, research assistant in 
Bureau of Personal Research; Miss 
Natalie Kneeland, Vassar College, 
Miss Jane Ringo, Univorsity of Mis­
souri, and both also of the retail 
training, research assistants in the 
Research Bureau for Retail Train­
ing; Lewis R. Frazier, University of 
Washington* assistant to Director 
Binglmm.
Reserve Officers Trlilning Corps— 
Captain N. Y. DeHamol, assistant 
professor military science a*d lac 
ties, assistant, engihoer unit; Cap­
tain G. Ii. Totten, assistant profes­
sor military ^cience and tactics, as­
sistant motor transport unit; Captain 
Clyde L. Walker, assistant professor 
military science and tactics, in 
charge of the signal corps unit.
ARTICLE I 
Name.
The name of this organization 
shall be the Alumni Association of
the College of -------------------------------- of
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
hereinafter referred to as the Asso­
ciation.
ARTICLE II 
Purpose.
Its object shall be to advance the 
Interest, influence and efficiency of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
to promote friendship within this 
Association and to promote harmony 
between and co-operate with the As-' 
sociations of the other Colleges of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
ARTICLE III
Membership.
Section 1. Classes of Membership 
and Section 2, Duties ancl Privileges 
of Mpmbers, are covered by the cor­
responding sections of Article III on 
Membership of the By-Laws of the 
Alumni Federation which have been 
ratified1, by this Association.
Section 3. Graduate Members. 
Graduate members In good standing 
are eligible to any elective office of 
tho Association Board except that of 
President which office may be held 
onlyi by a graduate of three years 
standing.
Section 4. Associate Members.
Associate members in good standing 
are eligible to membership on the 
Association Board, but are not eli 
gibe to hold office on the Board.
ARTICLE IV.
Dues.
The dues of this Association are 
payable to the Federation Treasurer 
as set forth in Article IV, Section's 
1 to 6, of the Federation Constitu­
tion.
ARTICLE V 
Officers—Board of Directors.
Section 1. The affaire of the Asso­
ciation shall he managed by a Board 
of Directors consisting of ten mem­
bers, tills number to include the 
President, First and Second Vice 
Presidents, Secretary and Treasurer. 
TI10 term of office of all Bcyird mem 
bors shall bo two years; the Presi­
dent and^ Secretary and three Board 
members' to ho elected on the even 
years and the balance of tho Board 
to ho oloctcd 011 tho odd years. 1
Section 2. TI10 Association Board 
shall make arrangements foi-all elec­
tions and meetings; shall fill for the 
unexplred term all vacancies Occur­
ring 011 the hoard by death, résigna 
tion, or otherwise; shall have su 
pervislon of the property and funds 
of the Association and shall make 
all laws and regulations not* provid­
ed1 for in theso By-Laws, which laws 
must conform to tho By-Laws of the 
Alumni Federation. No money shall 
be paid out of the Association treas­
ury without the consent of the Asso­
ciation Board. 1
Section 3. The officers of the As­
sociation Board and the Association 
are identical.
ARTICLE VI '
Duties of Officers.
Section 1. The duties of the Presi­
dent and Vice Presidents shall be 
those usually attached to their re­
spective offices.
Section. 2. The Secretary shall 
keep all records of the Association; 
shall give notices of all meetings; 
sliall^ carry on the correspondence of 
the Association; shall keep the roll 
of the numbers; shall exhibit the 
books at any time to any member of 
the Association Board, aud shall 
make an anual report at the regular 
business meeting of the Association; 
and shall perform such other duties 
assigned to him by the Association 
Board.
Section 3. The Treasurer shall 
collect and take charge of all rev­
enues of the Association ; shall put 
out money only when authorized by 
the Association Board; shall exhibit 
tho books at any time to any-mem­
ber of the Board.
Section *1. Robert’s Rule of Ordei 
shall govern parliamentary questions 
In tho meetings of this Association.
ARTICLE VII 
Association Board Meetings.
Section 1. The first annual moot­
ing of the Board of ftirectiV^ slui'll 
bo hold during Commencement Week 
unless otherwise- determined ' by the 
Board. The time for the other meet­
ings of the Board shall bo determin­
ed by the Board at. their first annual 
meeting. The President may call 
special meetings of the Board at 
the written roquest of four members 
iu which case notices stating the ob­
ject shall be sent to eacn member 
of tho Board at least one week be­
fore the meeting.
Section 2. One half of the mem­
bers of the Board shall constitute a 
quorum.
ARTICLE VIII 
General Association Meetings.
Section 1. A General Association 
meeting may bo called by the Presi­
dent upon receiving a written re­
quest of thirty members in good 
standing in yhich case notices stat­
ing the object for which it is to be 
called shall be sent to all members 
at least ten daya before the meeting.
Section 2. Forty members in good 
standing shall constitute a quorum 
of the Association at any properly 
called meeting.
ARTICLE IX 
Elections.
The annual election shall be held 
in April. This election shall be to 
elect members of the Association 
Board, Representative to the Feder­
ation Board, and such other elections 
as may be necessary ab that time! 
The successful candidates of thej 
Board shall take office at the first ' 
annual meeting.
ARTICLE X 
Fiscal Year.
The fiscal year of this Associa­
tion shall correspond with the fiscal 
year of the Federation.
ARTICLE XI 
Committees. *
All regular and special committees 
shall be appointed or elected upon 
nomination by the Association Board. 
The regular committees shall be— 
Membership 
Nominating
Auditing .
Scholarship 
Camups Week 
Entertainment.
ARTICLE XII 
Amendments.
Section 1. All proposed amend­
ments shall be submit ted. in writing 
to the Association Board.
Section 2. All amendments1 must 
be approved by three-fourths of the 
members of the Association Board 
and ratified by a majority of the 
paid-up members of the Association.
Section 3. Written notices of pro­
posed amendments must be mailed 
to the Association Board fifteen days 
prior to action thereon.
Section 4. All amendments must 
conform with the By-Laws- of the 
Alumni Federation.
G. L. TILBROOK,
Chairman Constitution Committee.
First Alumni 
Federation 
Meeting Held
J. B. Sprague, Science ’09, 
Elected President to Suc­
ceed Alan Bright
M. M. C. ALUMNAE PLANS
The Alumni Federation held their 
first meeting Tuesday, September 17, 
in the Alumni office.
Mr. Bright read a request from the 
Y. M. C. A. that a graduate be ap­
pointed on the "Y” Board of Manage­
ment and reported he had appointed
H. G. Nichol, Science, ’21. This action 
was ratified by the board.
Mr. Tilbrook read the financial re­
port from June 1 to September 1, as 
follows: Receipts, $4,414.43; expendi- 
tuers, $2,'901.52; balance, $1,512.91. 
The report was accepted.
Mr. Tilbrook reported that mem­
berships received to date were over
I,100 and asked that all board mem­
bers co-operate in reaching our quota 
of 2,500 for the year.
Mr. Batman gave a report on clans, 
stating that five new clans had been 
organized, making a total of 18. He 
gave a brief outline of the last Pitts­
burgh Clan "meeting and stated the 
business Men’s Directory would soon 
bo ready for distribution.
Miss Stewart reported the October 
issue of the Alumnus would be held 
up for preliminary plans of new gym­
nasium, and upon request, received 
an appropriation of $100 to cover the 
October issue.
Mr. Bright reported M. R. Walton 
as chairman of the committee to con­
fer with the architect on the gymna­
sium plans.
The Constitution Committee report­
ed and after some discussion the new 
constitution was accepted and declar­
ed in force.
The following officers were elected:
President .......................J. B. Sprague
First V.-Pres. /........Florence Bechtel
Second V.-Pres........R. S. Wilson, Jr..
Third V.-Pres....................M. M. Steen
Fourth V.-Pres....................S. G. Little
Secretary ...............Mrs. F. I. Gaston
Plans for the year are well un­
der way and some events have al-! 
ready taken place. The executive 
board1 has had two meetings, stand­
ing committees have been appointed 
and are planning jointly what prom­
ises to be an interesting profitable 
program. The yearly calendar will 
be issued shortly. The dance given 
after the Thiel game by the Alumnae 
netted approximately . two hundred 
and fifty dollars. This is to go to 
the Athletic Association to provide 
scholarships for worthy athletes.
The annual business meeting has 
been postponed on account of more 
urgent matters. This meeting is now 
scheduled for October 22 and will 
be followed by the usual tea.
BOSTON CLAN
NEW NIGHT COURSES
STARTED THIS YEAR
(Continued From Page One.)' 
group of elective subjects open to the 
night students of any of the colleges. 
The Psychology of Selling, under Mr. 
Mclntire, is scheduled this year for 
tho first term instead of the second.
In the College of Industries a new 
course Is that in Storage Batteries of­
fered by the Department of Electric 
Equipment and Construction. There« 
has also been added a course for the 
teachers of Industrial and Manual Arts 
I designed to meet the needs of those 
(with trade experience who wish to 
prepare their trade in the schools; 
the subjects of instruction include 
Psychology, Manual Arts Organization, 
Educational Measurements and Shop 
Work.
Heretofore, in the' College of Fine 
Arts, it was possible for a student to 
obtain a night certificate in only two 
departments, Architecture and Music. 
Beginning With this year, however, 
each department has a definite pro­
gram of work which leads to a cer­
tificate.
There are no night classes sched­
uled in the Margaret Morrison Col­
lege for Women. In place of the night 
work of this college as given last year, 
there will be arranged special late 
afternoon and Saturday morning 
classes in such subjects as cooking, 
dressmaking, office management, phy­
sical training and folk dancing, as far 
as there is demand for these subjects. 
Similar late afternoon classes wall be 
arranged in the College of Fine Arts 
for Supervisors of Art and Music.
LOST
On September ~28, copy of Wooley’ 
English, lost on campus. Finder 
please return same to Dean Tarbell’s 
office.
Earl Fuller’s
ORIGINAL
College Boys
—-----of---------
TECH, PITT, STATE, W. & J. 
AND KISKI 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8 
Subscription Three Dollars.
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
The Boston Clan will have an, out­
door supper on the Charles river, 
Saturday, October 8. Meet at Low­
ell Memorial Park, Cambridge, at 
3:30, or go to the Charles river 
reservation by way of the Sarry’s 
Landing road. Come. Cut a stiick. 
Cook your own supper and eat it 
piping hot around the camp fire.
In the evening we shall have a 
Tech song and talk over plans for 
the future as well as old times.
COSTUME CLUB ORGANIZES
The members of the Costume De­
partment met this week. and organ­
ized a departmental club. »
They are very fortunate ~ this year 
in having as the new head of their 
department Miss Jane Fales, who 
comes to them from Columbia Uni­
versity, and whom they like very 
much already.
The new officers of the club will 
be announced next weeV.
Treasurer ...................G. L. Tilbrook
The Association Board representa 
tives to the Federation are as follows: 
Science—R. S. Wilson, Jr., ’15; J. 
B. Sprague, ’09; G. L. Tilbrook, T.5.
Industries—S. G. Little, ’10; J. W. 
Batman, ’20; W. S. Rabenstein, *09.
M. M. C.—Florence Bechtel, ’18; 
Edna C. Smith, '09; Mrs. F. I. Gaston, 
'09.
Arts—Edward Crump, Jr., '15; M. 
M. Steen, ’08; F. H. Haaren, Aasoc.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MEN’S-FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
SPECIAL
14-Piece
DRAWING
SET
$eInIIWalk’s
410 MARKET ST. 
Opp. McCann's.We Alse Carry Slightly Used Sets at Very Low Prices.
^PJ31ililiIQ0!ll[!liI]QlIlIlJU!ni!13in]l!I[]Ell!nill}III!IIIII!l!l!ll|]llI[II!III1IEl]l1tlIIIUlIlll[lllllllllll[lltlUllHilll!tll!!Jlll[I!IIIII[!llllllllllll[!in[llll[llllltlIlllilllltillllIlIlllltlUI!lliUfMI]2iSnirfi ^
| ANDERSON’S
| HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS | 
j 3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater |
We’ve Fitted 
Feet For 
Over 40 
Years.
You always “look around" 
when new season brings new 
garments, and correct shoes are 
quite as important.
So please accept our invitation 
to stop in and see the new shoe 
styles for Fall—never were they 
more beautiful, or more varied.
STETSON’S
New Fall Shoes 
now in stock*
P. Ludebuehl & Son
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
JACQUES DANCING ACADESflY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
Member of A. N. A. M. of D.
f BELL PHONE
Classes each evening./
Open All Year. 
Private lessons daily.
A SCHOOL NOT A P.UBLIC DANCE HALL
