<5-3 0 ïj'-
------------------------------------------1
TECH VS. GENEVA i
FIELD HOUSE 
SATURDAY, FEB. 5
r-<r3Ijf darían
“FOLLIES OF 1922” !
M. M. I). GYM 
FEB. 4 FEB. 5 I
S'SPigSJ'
VOL. XV NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 2, 1921
PENN HOLDS TAR­TAN PUCKEHASERS TOM SCORE
Pringle, Whole Show for Penn— 
Andrews Scores Twice and 
Jewell Cages One —Quinn 
Plays Good Game
SHOW IMPROVED TEAMWORK
The Plaid Puckchaser furnished the 
second surprise of the year when they 
battled with the University of Penn­
sylvania hockey team for a 3 to 3 tie 
score, Friday night, at Duquesne Gar­
dens. An extra period of five minutes 
was played to decide the winner, but 
neither team was able to penetrate the 
-other’s defense.
The game was interspersed with re­
markable long shots and numerous 
spills, particularly by Red Godden, 
which were a result of the desperate 
efforts the men were making at all 
times. Pepn, it is said, was consider­
ably weakened by the injury to Diali, 
the star left wing, in a collision with 
Red at the very outset.
All of the scoring done by Penn was 
registered by» Pringle, its lightning 
fast center, while Andrews countea 
two of Teen s goals, and made a di­
rect <5-- to Jewell when the latter 
registered the other one.
Pringle opened the scoring near the 
end of the first period when he broke 
away from a scrimmage in mid-ice, 
and shot one past the Tartan guard-, 
ian after 10 minutes and 40 seconds of 
play had elapsed.
Andrews evened matters four min­
utes and 40 seconds later, when he 
electrified the spectators by a bril­
liant dash down the ice which termin­
ated in a marker. Pringle, however, 
taking the puck on the face-off, again 
skated past the Tech defense, ana 
within 10 seconds scored another goal.
Tech’s play improved in the second 
period, and after Pringle had broken 
away, and counted within a minute ol 
play, the Scotchmen proceeded to even 
the count which stood 3 to 1 against 
them. Andrews obtained the rubber 
near his own/ goal, and skated the en­
tire distance of the ice before forcing 
it pasùthè Penn goal keeper. Four 
minutes of play in this period had then 
elapsed. Five minutes later the score 
was evened at three when Andrews 
again skated down the ice to a position 
close to the Penn net and made a per­
fect pass to Jewell, directly in front of 
the net, who pushed it through.
Both teams fought harder during 
the final period, but neither was able 
to score. Tech came close to doing so 
in the added five-minute period, how­
ever, when Quinn shoved one into the 
body of Jeffries, the Penn goalkeeper.
The crowd took keen delight in the 
roughness which pervaded the entire 
contest. Practcally no player on the 
ice escaped the swings of rival clubs 
and charges of the opponents. Good 
sportsmanship was ever apparent, 
however. This made the outstanding 
feature more keenly enjoyable. The 
lineup and summary:
(Continued on Page Three.)
SENIOR BALL IS REVIVED
At the meeting of the Science 
Senior class last Thursday the pros­
pects of a Senior ball were discussea. 
A committee was appointed to work 
out plans and create sentiment in 
favor of such an affair. No Senior 
ball has been held since before the 
war and it is generally conceded that 
the occasion is too good to miss. Last 
year the. possibilities were discussea 
and a commencement dance was 
favored and held; but it did riot have 
the distinction of the Senior dances in 
former years. There is no doubt but 
that the Seniors of all the divisions 
will be behind the proposition.
TICKET SALE JR. PROM ENDS FEB. 15
Decoration Scheme Being Work­
ed Out—Nightmen Eligible 
Orchestra Carefully Selected
MAY DANCE ’TIL 3 A. M.
The sale and distribution of pre­
liminary tickets for the Junior Prom 
will end on February 15. This must be 
done so as to give the committee defin­
ite idea of the number to arrange 
for.
The decoration committee is work­
ing on a scheme of decoration that 
will make the Schenley ball room an 
attractive place for the occasion. By 
careful study the cost of this work 
will be less than former years, thus 
enabling the expenditure of money ou 
things that will go farther to make 
the Prom an enjoyable success.
Tihe grand march will start prompt­
ly at 9:30. Supper will be served at 
midnight and last until 3 a. m. if it is 
possible to obtain a permit until that 
time.
The orchestra will be made up of 
the best and most popular musicians 
who play on the campus. Some mem­
bers will be from the Design Jazz 
band and the remainder from popular 
down town combinations. Men who 
have been three years at school, day 
or night, are eligible. Anyone who is 
planning to go should obtain tickets 
immediately.
INDUSTRY REVELS IN “GAMBOL OF THEJjUILDS”
Programs of Green Leather 
With Broom Pencils—Lunch 
at 12—Dancing Until 2A. M,
OVERALLS-SMOCKS-.APRONS
The new dance hall in the Langeley 
Laboratory was officially opened for 
social functions last Friday night 
when the second annual frolic of the 
Industries was held under the name 
of the “Gambol of the Guilds.”
Nearly eighty couples took part in 
the grand march which was held at 
nine-thirty at which time programs 
and novelty pencils were distributed. 
The programs were bound in green 
leather by gold cords and were the 
product of the Department of Graphic 
Arts. The pencils were made in the 
form of small brooms. All the cou­
ples were dressed in overalls, smocks, 
gingham dresses or aprons.
Giles' 10-piece orchestra furnished 
the music which was the best which 
has been heard at .any dance on the 
campus this year. The orchestra was, 
placed in thé center of the hall sur­
rounded by ferns and plants , while 
light was furnished by four large 
stand lamps. The other lights in the 
hall were covered by colored shades 
and;, four flood lights streamed from 
the four corners.
At 12 o’clock the guilders paused 
in their work and partook of a boun­
teous lunch served in buffet style. 
After a brief interval dancing was 
resumed and lasted until the lights 
went out at 2 a. m.
NIGHT INDUSTRIES SHOW 
PEP AT ANNUAL SMOKER
ANNUAL ARTS SHOW 
AT SCHENLEY, MAR. 4-5
The dates of the annual Arts show 
have been.set for March 4 and 5 at the 
Schenley Theater. There will prob­
ably be three performances, two at 
night and one matinee. The title of 
the show is “Ship Alioy,” which 
sounds interesting.n
The book of the play is nearly com­
plete with the exception of a few re­
visions. Rehearsals began last week. 
About 25 girls have turned out for the 
chorus, among them some of the best 
in, the division. Several numbers of 
music have been written. Some of the 
songs written last year by the stud­
ents became very popular and are 
still heard. This year the show will 
be more snappy in that it will have 
fewer scenes. From last year’s ex­
perience it was found that the many 
stage settings caused delays and 
made the performance tiresome.
The show will surely be a big suc­
cess, for the students of this year cer­
tainly showed what they can do by the 
success of the ball.
On Saturday evening, January 29, 
the Night Industries Association held 
a smoker in the gymnasium on Wood- 
lawn avenue. ‘Buddy”’Overend open­
ed the meeting with a discussion of 
the coming athletic drive, urging the 
fellows to get their friends to buy the 
athletic tickets.
The next feature of the evening was 
a four round bout between Jack Barry, 
of the Pittsburgh Lyceum, former hold­
er of the club’s amateur lightweight 
championship (incidentally Barry is 
former Tech man), and Jack Ritchie 
of the .'Hill district. Barry showed fine 
form, having the edge on his opponent 
throughout the battle, though encoun- 
, teiing severe resistance.
Professors ¡Caldenvood and Dunnells 
each gave short talks encouraging the 
night men to take a more active part 
in the school life, and complimented 
them on coming out to the smoker.
Dean Morris then told us that Tech 
must carry on its work. He pointed 
out that while the school was provid­
ed with a-liberal endowment at the 
time of its founding, economic condi­
tions had changed so that the income 
from the endowment was insufficient 
to pay the running expenses of the 
school at the present time, and that if 
we as real Tech men appreciated the 
advantages of such a school as ours.
(Continued on Page Three.)
SINE NOMENE ORGANIZES
Believing that the good name and 
the interests of our Alma Mater could 
be furthered, that a group of deter­
mined enthusiasts behind our be­
loved and respected , athletic teams 
would help push them up to hold their 
own with the best teams of the na­
tion’s colleges and universities, and 
that it would be well to have one 
more organization in which scholastic 
standing played a very important part, 
Sine Nomene has organized and 
pledges itself to the above. The club 
is open to membership from the three 
men’s schools on our campus.
SONG COMPETITION ANNOUNCEMENT SOON
Plans are now being worked up for 
a series of competitions to obtain 
songs for the new school song book 
which is to "be put out this year.
There will be several competitions 
offered to different groups, in addi­
tion to the general one, among which 
will be one to the Girls’ Dorms, one 
to Boys’ Dorms and one to Fraterni­
ties.
The prizes in these smaller competi­
tions will be awards of five dollars 
each to the two best songs received. 
Also full credit will be given to the 
writer and organization represented 
by all songs published in the book.
The song bo’gk will he a cloth bound 
edition similar to that put out by other 
schools and it is the hope of the com­
mittee that all Tech men and women 
will co-operate in obtaining this much 
needed factor in our college life by 
entering songs in these competitions. 
Get busy on yours and watch lor fur­
ther dope!
CARNEGIE TECH UNDER INVESTI­GATION^ COMM.
Commission to Meet Adminis- 
stration Faculty and Stud­
ents—Financial Crisis Acute 
in Operation of School
DR. CAPEN HEADS COMM.
To make a survey of educational 
conditions in Pittsburgh and to give 
particular attention to the progress 
already made in the development of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Dr. James Angell, president of the 
Carnegie Corporation, and Col. S. H. 
Church, president of the board of 
trustees of the Carnegie institute, 
have appointed a commission consist­
ing of Dr. Samuel P. Capen, director 
of the American Council of Education, 
Washington, D. >C.; Mr. Harold H. 
Swift of 'Swift & Co., Chicago; Dr. 
Frederick Ayer of Akron, O.; Dr. M. 
A. Bigelow, director of practical arts 
in Teachers College, Columbia Univer­
sity; and J. C. Christensen, assistant 
treasurer of the University of Michi­
gan.
Dr. Capen. as specialist on higher 
education, will make a general survey 
of the city’s institutions and study 
the academic work of the Institute of 
Technology. Dr. Ayer, dean of the 
engineering school of the University 
of Akron, will study the Divisions of 
Science and Engineering and Indus­
tries. Dr. Bigelow will make a special 
study of the Margaret Mor-
rikon Division and the Indus­
tries Division. Mr. Swift, who 
(Continued on Page Four.)
TRYOUTS VARSITY DE­
BATING TEAM FEB. 3
Tryouts Tor the triangle debate to 
b-t held oil April 15 with the Univer­
sity of West Virginia and W. & J. 
will be hold in Thursday evening, Feb­
ruary 3, room 107, Arts building. 
Everyone interested In debating as a 
school activity Is urged to be there 
prepared to deliver a flve-minuto 
direct speech on the given proposi­
tion: Resolved, Thai, the sevoral
states* should enact legislation for the 
establishment of courts of industrial 
relations similar to the Kansas court. 
This is the question of the final de­
bate and tlmo spent on preliminary 
preparation will be of direct value for 
the official debate. 11 is hoped therr 
will be a good turn out so as to insure 
intercollegiate debating for Tech. This 
is an opportunity to develop and 
tablish an inforensle art, which is 
something we surely noed hero.
M. M. D. JR. PROM. FEB. 5
The M. M. D. Junior prom will bo 
held on February 25 in the Schenley 
ballroom. Members of the two upper 
classes are eligible, also some girls of 
irregular standing who have been a. 
school three years, at the discretion 
of the committee. The proceeds of 
•the show to be given by the division 
will be used to partly defray the ex­
penses there—but it is hoped to keep 
the cost below that of former years. 
Cliff Carney’s combination, "The Or­
chestra,” will furnish the music.
GEN. ASSEMBLY MUSIC JIALLJEB. 9
Prof. Karapetoff of Cornell Will 
Talk on “Educational Aims 
and Means"
FOOTBALL LETTER AWARDS
The next general assembly will be 
held February 9 In the music hall. It 
Is planned to have the assembly start 
as promptly as possible and all are 
urged to get down as quickly as pos­
sible. Unfortunately attendance at 
these assemblies In the past has been 
mighty poor but with the attractive­
ness of the program of the coming 
week all should aim to cause an early 
posting of the “S. R. O.” sign.
Prof. VakUmir Karapetoff of Cornell 
University will give an interesting 
talk on “Educational Aims and 
Means.” He is reputed to he a very 
interesting college speaker and quite 
able to present his subject with the 
college man’s point of view in mind. 
A rare treat is in store for those 
who hear him.
The second part of the program will 
consist of the awarding of tho gold 
and silver footballs and letter insignia 
lo tho football toain. Hero tho last 
chance to show your appreciation of 
the work done by the team on the 
most memorable day of Tech’s ath­
letic history presents itaolC. If you 
had any trouble recognizing tho 
monibers of the team on November 
22 come down to the music hall and 
as thoy made that day one never to 
be forgotten in our lives so let us 
/Continuod on Pago Throo.)
STUDENT COUNCIL PLANS
The Student Council held a short 
meeting last week. The time was 'oc 
cupied with committee reports and 
discussions of various future events. 
The committee on “Campus Week” Is 
busily engaged on plans which will 
make that week stand out as the best 
yet. The committees in charge of the 
different commencement activities are 
well organized and are rapidly get­
ting under jyay. Details concerning 
the next general asembly were also 
discussed.
To most students the Student Coun­
cil is merely the body which sort of 
looks after things around school. 
It is hard to realize the world of de­
tails for which it is responsible. To 
appreciate the work this, small group 
of students is doing it is only neces­
sary to sit in a meeting with them and 
listen to the roll call of committees a! 
tending to these details. It is a liberal 
education in itself.
ARTS SCHOOL ASSEMBLY
The Arts School Assembly Wednes­
day, January 26th, was well attended 
and every one seemed anklous to have 
some “dope” concerning the recent, 
ball and the approaching Arts school 
show.
Harry Aspinwall,’chairman of tho 
Ball committee,' • complimented the 
student body upon their co-operation 
with the committee, and commended 
many individuals of the school for 
their work.
Carl Reid, school treasurer, re­
ported that the financial end of the 
ball was O. K. He also stated that the 
Post Ball dance was a big success and 
about $200 was realized for the Var­
sity clan.
Remarks concerning tryouts and 
practices for the Girls’ Choruses and 
tile formation of a Girls’ Honorary 
Fraternity were made by the presi-. 
dent. An appeal was also made for 
the same co-operation toward the show 
as was shown in work for the ball.
LITTLE THEATER PROGRAM
Thursday, February 3, 8:15 p. m., 
“Life and Death of Shakespeare,” 
Little Tlreater.
Friday, February 4, 4 p. m., “Hip- 
polytus,” Little Theater.
Friday, February 4, 8:15 p. m., “Life 
and Death of Shakespeare,” Little The 
ater.
Saturday, February 5, 8:15 p. m., 
“Life and Death of Shakespeare,” Lit­
tle Theater.
Sunday, February 6, 8:15 p. m., Re­
cital of Music. Little Theater.
“Hippolytus” is being given especial­
ly for the Educational Commission.
NOTABLES AT LITTLE THEATER
The Friday afternoon performances 
in the Little Theater have been even 
greatest suceehs this year than ever 
before. Numbers of students take 
this opportunity to • see plays which 
are presented only at such other times 
as to make it almost impossible for 
them to see the performances. Even 
more members of the school might be 
interested in attending the presen­
tations if they knew of the occasion 
afforded at almost every one of these 
matinees, of seeing some popular actor 
or actress at close range. A numer 
of notables have attended plays in the 
theater this year, including, recently, 
Nance O’Neil and her company, and 
Marjorie Rambeau and her Company. 
A tea is served after the play at which 
members of the Drama 'School are 
jy-esent, and some lasting friendships 
are formed, and useful opinions ex 
changed. The matinees are held 
every Friday afternoon at four.
STUDENT VESPERS
ATHLETIC FUND CAMPAIGN PLANS NEARMMPLETION
Every Class Member, Alumnus 
or Former Student to be 
Solicited. Subscribers to Re­
ceive Athletic Book
NEW YORK CLAN PREPARES
“FOLLIES OF 1922” DV 
M.M.D. JUS., FED. 4-5
Ann Pennington will not return to 
Pittsburgh 'next year and Ethol Barry­
more's sickness 1m all a. lot ol! bunk. 
Why? The Follies of 1022 will take 
place on February 4 and 5 and after 
hearing of this, \Vhat were formerly 
known an regular theatricals docldod 
to give up. What’s all the whoa, whys 
and wherefores? Woll, hero It 1h. Tho 
show Is being staged by the co-eds of 
Tech and from the Socrecy connected 
with the affair tho only thing that I 
can guess Is that it is going to bo some 
show.
Now listen, if you never heard of 
Miss Betty Paul before, why Tech- 
nltes, "lend me your ears.” I thought 
I could desoribe her to you but hero's 
what you do. Imagine a combination 
of Theda Bara, Mary Plckford, Marlyn 
Miller and Elsie Janls and you have 
it—only 100 per cent better. Well, 
she’s the leading lady, prlma donna, 
and believe me in all those endearing. 
young charms she’s worth the price 
of the whole front row to myself.
But ya ain’t . heard nothing yet. 
Honest there’s 36 more just like that 
and I’m tollin' you right now—it's a 
perfect 3(5. Divided by three they 
make 12 Dancing Bubbles,, 12 Flipping 
Flappers and 12 Galloping Goloshers 
and if that ain’t a combination worth 
seeing I’ll give you a free scholarship 
to Saint Joseph’s “Academy” for the 
rest of your life.
So pull out your old Tech Bible and 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Details of the approaching cam­
paign for the Support, and maintenance 
of Tech athletics upon the plane, 
reached through yonrs of planning and 
experimentation and fulfillment of the 
general desire to make Tech athletic 
teams and ’equipment comparable in 
quality and number to the other de­
partments and branches of student 
activity are in process of realization, 
and the filial campaign organization 
will be perfected during the coming 
week, according to Frank H. Haaron, 
graduate manager and chalrman- 
treasurer of the extension fund ex­
ecutive committee of the Athletic 
Council, which has the drive In 
charge.
Tho dripo for the athletic fund of 
Tech is being watched with, the 
ko'Onest Interest by the alumni, stud­
ents and athletic authorities of 
•mamy of Lh6 privately endowed 
colleges and universities the 
country, many of whose teams are ex­
periencing tho same dilllcultlos that 
have confronted Mr. .Haaron and his 
associates during the past few years. 
Tech’s campaign is being watched to 
see what sort of response her alumni 
body will make to this appoal, tho 
first ever made to them, to secure an 
Index of the loyalty and willingness 
to give of tho moil and women she 
has sent out Into tho world. Tech’s 
campaign, bocauso of the fact (hat. It 
Is a rather new doparturo In athletli, 
support, Is being watched lo soo what 
might bo accomplished in other 
schools with similar needs.
Mr. Haaron and the executive com­
mittee have been busily engaged, 
since the determination to use a cam­
paign, in forming committees among 
tho class, school, faculty, fraternity, 
clan and other groups, and in prepar­
ation of the organization and pub­
licity ground work of the campaign 
that is so ossontlal, before the In­
tensive period of tho campaign Is be­
gun.
Plans for tho campaign, which will 
ho held during' tile period of February 
I *1-28, Include solicitation of every 
member of the clans, and every alum­
nus and former studont of Tech, as 
well as tho general schomo of carry™ 
lug the appeal to the public. Tho en­
deavor will bo centered upon tho idea 
of having each alumnus subscribe $10 
to tho athletic fund, In return for 
which an athletic book, valid for 
ovory, athletic ovont held at I'ech dur­
ing tho 1921*22 season will be Issued. 
Alumni and private individuals who 
are in a, position to subscribe in large 
amounts will be urged to do so, giving 
the surplus athletic books to em­
ployes, friends or high school stud­
ents, so as to aid in building up 
Tech spirit among non-alumni.
The second annual banquet of! tho 
(Continued on Page Two.)
TECH CO-EDS PLAY GENEVA 
IN BASKET BALL FEB. 25
Yesterday, at the First Baptist 
church, after a splendid address by 
Dr. Cyril W. Haas, physician in chief 
of the International Hospital in Ad­
ana. Asia Minor, a banquet was held 
by students of Pitt, Tech and P. C. 
W. Besides enjoying the eats and the 
well rendered readings of Mr, Willard 
from Tech Drama school and violin 
solos of Miss Ludwig from P. C. W„ 
Lo say nothing of the Jazz duet, serious 
business of interest to every Tech 
student was discussed.
A week from tomorrow Dr. Gilkle 
of the Hyde Park Baptist church of 
Chicago will speak. Show yo^i ap 
predate the Tech spirit they are 
showing by coming tomorrow at 4:45 
—four blocks from the campus, at 
Bayard and Bellefleld streets. Every- 
I thing is done to make It worth your 
I time.
SCIENCE SCHOOL ASSEMBLY
The Science Plebe was again the oh 
ject of Interest at the Science Assem­
bly last Wednesday, January 2(5, when 
the assembly was turned over to the 
Plebe Regulation Committee. Delln 
quent plebes were brought out and 
dealt with In a manner that Is chara 
terlstlc of Science school—justfully 
yet thoroughly, Three haircuts and 
three face paintings were the penal­
ties Inflicted on the unfortunate 
plebes.1
The Science school Jazz orchestra 
was in attendance and along with the 
M. M. D. stringers kept the crowd cry­
ing for more. An equally good pro 
gram Is planned for tho next assem­
bly. and every man Is expected to turn 
out,
Does Tech know that lh6re Is a real 
true girls’ varsity basket ball team? 
There’s loads of propaganda out for 
the boys’ football teams, basket ball, 
baseball, tennis,’ hockoy—what not? 
But now the Co-Eds have .decided to 
have a big game. They showed their 
spirit in the parade after the- Tech- 
W. & J. game, did they not? Are you 
going to give them a chance to show 
you what a lipping good team they 
have?
It has been rumored that the Gen­
eva lassies have a cracker-jack team. 
Tech's girls, however, are right out 
with the old spirit—which the girls 
possess as well as the men—to “eat 
’em up.” Under Mfas Bowman'u 
whizzy practices, training and general 
hard work, they have a team that will 
surprise you all.
Why not tiirn out to this one game 
of the season and show the girls that 
they h^ve the entire school back of 
them? They're called t|ie Carneglo 
Tech Varsity, by tho way, as the Mag­
gie Murphs have taken, their Design 
sisters into their athletic association.
Save i/’rlday, February 18, for a real 
girls’ game, snappy team work, good 
passing, 'n' everything. The game will 
be held In the boys' gym at 8 o'clock. 
Tickets will bo on salo In tho various 
schools tho week of tho 18th. Como 
on Tech, let's go. Boost your Co-Eds. 
Help them defend tho Plaid and ae- 
feat aoneva.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TA*TANWEDNESDAY.FEBRUARY 2. 1921
alarían
Published «vory week by undergraduatos of the Carnaglo Instituto of 
Technology under tho nupei*vh}lon of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In thè Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
LAWHKNCU K. PAQ'CJIN.............................................................. ISdltoi'-lu-Chlet
Telephone, Schenley 0180.
DON. A. S1LLBES ................................................................... Business Manager
Telephone, Schenley 0211
WILLIAM D. 1IALL .........................¦..................................... Managing Editor
Telephone, Schenley 0000.
FÏIED L, KNCXWLIDB................................................Assistant Managing Editor
STUART P. SMITH ................................................................... Athletic Editor
DONALD S. HAHDING .................................................................. News Editor
WILLIAM OBENOirn'....................................................... Circulation Manager
WILLIAM It. MILLS ......................................................... Advertising Manager
EDITORIAL AND NEW8 ASSISTANTS
Kenneth Arnold, Assistant News Editor; Division«! Asslshmts, Helen 
Lewis, M M. D.; Cluirlotto Shuman, Arts; I. Slsmnan, Helenes; 11. R. Belvr, 
Industries; ISdltorlul ABBlBtunti., V. II. Htronujulst; L, .1. Whitehead; Night 
School Editor, Edward A. Brand; Assistant Athletic; Editor, H. L: Moern- 
folder; artoonlst, M. (1. WJnslow; Photographer, It. H. Guyton.
BUSINESS AS8ISTANT8
D. Sonmmmnn, Waller Heller and Ackerman.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the inalte up.
DESTRUCTIVE CRITICISM
There lias teen tin increasing tendency on the part oil I he «In­
dent, body ol: late to find fault with the management of different 
social and political ufl'nirs carried on under the direction of commit­
tees appointed or elected from their own group. It is hardly neces­
sary to mention specific cases, but in more than one instance we have 
noted insinuations being made as to what a certain committee was 
expecting to make out of an affair, or in regard to the reason there 
was not more money left to turn over from some event held last 
month or even last year.
In all cases of this kind, tho remark was found to come from per­
sons who had no real first-hand knowledge of the circumstances 
under which the said activity had been managed. When confronted 
with the fact'that full and accurate reports as to all money con­
nected with the transaction had been made, and accepted by the class 
or organization concerned, they had no argument except the fact that 
they still had their suspicions.
There is nothing on earth which can so quickly and so effective­
ly dishearten a man interested in doing his best for his school or 
college as this sort of unfounded criticism. The very reason Unit it 
has no foundation in fact makes it that much harder to face, because 
no amount of proof to the contrary will silence the persons who 
spread such ideas for the mere love of finding fault.
A J'(!W weeks ago The Tartan advocated a system of points for 
activities, which we find is being taken up by the Student Activi­
ties Board. This will, at least in a measure, make it. imperative that 
more students in all divisions fake part in all activities, and will take 
solne of the responsibility from the shoulders of those who have been 
willing to bear it previously. It is to be hoped that this innovation 
will render it not only possible, but nceessary that those who do 
most of tho criticising and none of llie work should take a more ac­
tive part in tho managing.of student affairs.
jt is always a fact, and deplorably so, that the man who puts 
himself forward, who gives up his own time and energy to the fur­
thering of tho interests of his friends or community, is subject to 
criticism from those whom he wishes most to benefit, II is natural 
that tin! man who is not before the public, but who goes his own way 
with no thought or interest except in himself, should have time to 
criticise, and yet bo exempt from criticism because of the very fact 
that he doos nothing for which, lie could bo either blamed or praised.
lie who is busy with the affairs of his college has liltle time 
either li> deny llie accusations brought against him, or lo indulge in 
idle gossip such as is now so prevalent at Tech. By gelling every­
one interested in and working for everything that is going on on 
the campus, we niiiy bo able to keep everyone busy- enough to pre­
vent fault finding. If not that, we may bo able lo give each one some 
experience concerning wlmt the recipient id' such criticism has to 
contend with. Appreciation id' the other follow’s point of view is 
about llie greatest mhul-broiidono)' wo know.
Happenings on the Campus
SCIENCE
A. I. E. E. MEETING
ARTS ACTIVITIES
Af. the A, J. E. E. meeting la at Tues- 
dtty Mr, Fleishman gave an intercal­
imi lecture on controlling devices, 303ï 
talk being accompanied by lantern 
«Ilde«. A two reel movie “The 
Queen of the gfea," the first electrical­
ly driven battíeehip, demonstrating 
operation ol! the driving mechanism, 
was also shown. Smokes were en­
joyed and a number ol' new members 
were received. ,
COMMERCIAL CLUB HOLDS 
SMOKER
Lust Wednesday evening at the 
Beta Hoiise, the Commercial Club 
held a real live smoker and get- 
acquainted party. The old men be­
came acquainted with the new men 
and the new with the old. Mr. Telleen, 
one * of the editors of Industry and 
Finance, gave a very interesting talk 
on the Held of Commercial Engineer­
ing. He touched on the requirements 
of an executive position, the present 
conditions of the stock market and 
the present and future of American 
export trade. He also pointed out 
the general depression in industry at 
the present time and its vital im­
portance to the business world. Pro­
fessor O’Hara gave a short talk in 
which he explained the status of the 
Commercial Engineering course and 
the possibilities of future changes in 
the curriculum. Smokes and eats 
were in abundance. Everyone had a 
good tiihe and a sincere friendliness 
and brotherly spirit seemed to .pre- 
vade the meetirig.
Wobi'iinvy 
Hon 80,
JAil) run vy 
Fobrunyy 
February 
Fob 0j0 «t ry 
February 
3 3'T-EC 
February 
February 
February 
February• 
February 
February 
February 
February 
February
STUDENT CALENDAR
3- ßdHkot Un 11, Tocli VS, (îrovo ( îitÿ, Tech Field
II
-Foil¡08 ol’ 1922, M. M. I).
¦Fnevilly (Hub, Union.
Basket Hall, Toeh vs. 0encvn, Tech Field House. 
•Follies of li)22, M. M. I).
•Bnaket Hull, "Tech vs. Allegheny, Tech Field
il 11 ictus tri es Fresimi e 11 Dàuco, Union.
12" Women J.s InliOivDorm Dance, Union;
14-25—Athletic, Drive.
17...Industries Alumni Association, Union.
18—Building Construction Dance, Union.
18—Sophomore Class Show, M. M. D.
21—Quaker Club Dance, Schenley Hotel. •
22—Washington’s Birthday—No classes.
22—Four Schools’ Sophomore Dance, Union.
CHEMISTS’ CLUB
Last Thursday E. M. Symmes, of 
the Hercules Powder Co., Wilming­
ton, Del., addressed the Chemists' 
Club on the manufacture of dynamite 
and gelatine. He had many interest­
ing and valuable slides on the pro­
cess. He showed tho nitration, mix­
ing, packing and testing of the ex­
plosives and had some very interest­
ing views of the machinery and build­
ings of the plant. The plant motto, 
when anything goes wrong is “Go Else­
where.” The buildings are surrounded 
by mounds of earth or concrete so 
that when anything does go wrong 
the force of the explosion will be up­
ward and will not communicate to 
other buildings. There were some in­
teresting views of where buildings had 
been before something happened.
He ended up with a reel of Him, 
which showed the blasting of 100,000 
tons of cement rock with 125,000 
pounds’ of dynamite. His talk was ex­
tremely interesting and all who heard 
it enjoyed It greatly.
MINING AND METALLURGICAL 
CLUB
A meeting of the Mining and Metal 
lurgicnl. Club will be held in Room 
Oil,- 'Science, on Thursday, February 3,
8 p. m. Professor Crabtree has en- 
gaged a prominent speaker from the 
Jones a:- Utughlin Steel Works for 
I hi* evening. All men Interested am 
welcome. Smokes and light refresh' 
ments will be served.
INDUSTRIES
DR. SCHNEEWEISS LECTURE 
ON AMERICAN PHILOSOPHY
A series of four lectures will be 
given by Dr. Adolph J. Scliheeweiss, 
assistant Professor of Philosophy and 
Acting Head of the Department, Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, at the Auditori­
um, Central Young Men’s Christian 
Association, Pittsburgh, Pa., on suc­
cessive Mondays beginning February 
7, 1931, at 2 p. m., for the Interdenom­
inational Ministers Association and 
the general public.
Monday, February 7, 1021, Jopiah 
Royce—Royce, as the leader of the 
American School of Absolute Idealism, 
represents the last defense of a great 
philosophical tradition that died with 
the nineteenth century,
Monday, February 1-1, 1021, William 
«Tames—James, even though educated 
in the traditions ol' Absolute Idealism, 
became the founder ol' a philosophy, 
which was born with tho last days of 
t.ht nineteenth century. Pragmatism, 
born as a result, of the revolt to For­
mal Logic, is not able to shako ¡Itself 
completely J'rom its heritage. ,U stands 
as a deadly enemy to Absolute ideal­
ism and, at tho same time, it, gives 
hope to Supernuturaltsm.
Monday, February 21, 1921, John
Dewey- -Dewey’s Instrumental Experi- 
mentalism, born with the reaction to 
Supernaturalism, becomes the dynamic 
method which aims in solving the pro­
blems of today in order to make life: 
happier tomorrow.
Monday, February 2S> 1921, George I 
Santayana—Santayana’s Naturalism as I
LIFE OF SHAKESPEARE
IN LITTLE THEATER FRI. 4
The next production to be offered in 
the Little Theater of the Arts Division 
will be the. biographical play, “The Life 
and Death of William Shakespeare,” 
which will be performed Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday evenings, Feb­
ruary 8, 4 and 5. The play is the work 
of Hubert Osborne, an assistant pro­
fessor in the Drama School, and Lau­
rence Eyre, the author of Mrs. Fiskes’ 
success, “Mis’ Nelly o’ N’Orleans.” 
The staging and costumes are elabor­
ate. To quote from a statement made 
concerning the production, it “depicts 
the life of Shakespeare from a boy of 
eighteen, with hh puppy loves and 
verses, down through his first-writ; 
ings, his first, stage experiences, his 
life at. the court, and lastly his death,” 
Tho oast, numbers sixty, tho largest 
number ever seen on this stage at 
one time, and, to quote again, with 
“clover and witty direction this play 
cannot help but’ be a hugo success.” 
The list of players Is much too long to 
print here, but It sulllces to say that, 
according to report, everyone of any 
Importance in the Drama School wiil 
appear In the cast.
A girl is never satisfied until she 
draws lier beau into a knot.—Student 
Life.
a heritage of Greek philosophy, free 
of all artificial problems, provides the 
metaphysical background for Dewey’s 
Experimentnlism.
B. T. U. CLUB
On Friday, January 21, Mr. M. J. 
Finn of the Bailey Farrell Mfg. Co. 
addressed the 13. T. U. Club, composed 
of students pursuing courses in heat­
ing and ventilation. Mr. Finn’s talk 
dealt with pumps' and their various 
applications, especially in farming. 
Many interesting lectures and trips to 
industrials have been planned for the 
near future and members will find the 
club a valuable asset in connection 
with their scholastic work.
ARTS BALL AND BEAUX ARTS
The Arts School Ball and vacations 
seemingly interfered with the archi­
tects. At the recent judgment held at 
the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, 
New York, two juniors received first 
mentions and the remainder mentions. 
The Sophomores failed to make higher 
than mentions. “A City Market” ana 
“A Window With a Balcony,” the 
Junior and Sophomore problems re­
spectively, were interesting, but .were 
given two weeks before vacation and 
were due two weeks after.
SOPHOMORE HOP
The Sophomore Hop has been given 
a good start by the committee, com­
prising two members from the Soph­
omore clases of each division. Twp 
meetings were held in Forbes Hall 
and much interest was aroused. Feb­
ruary 22 is the date, and the Hotel 
Schenley is, the place. Eyery Soph­
omore is. expected to be there. Stir 
up dormant enthusiasm and back your 
committee and class.
M. M. D. DOINGS
NEW COMMITTEE WOMAN
Miss Hortense Purdy lias been ap­
pointed to Tartan Committee in the 
place of Miss Dorothy Mong, who re­
signed some time ago.
DOUGHNUTS AND COFFEE. DAV 
SUCCESS
The Y. W. committee in charge of 
Doughnuts and Coffee Day was over­
whelmed by the rush at 3:30 Thurs­
day. Just twice as much food coulo 
have been sold, as the supply ran out 
long before closing time. Other such 
days will be arranged in the future. 
Next time come early.
MISS GRACE RUPERT HONORARY 
MEMBER
At the meeting for Miss Rupert last 
Wednesday, the Y. W. C. A. girls 
chose Miss Grace Rupert as an honor 
ary member. The association has 
never before elected one, and although 
we had to give her up as our Faculty 
Advisor, we wanted to keep her with 
us, and we knew of no better way to 
show our appreciation of her. We are 
going to feel real proud of our honor 
when she gets over in :China next 
year and we can say “one of us”, is in 
the Orient.
M. M. D. NIGHT SCHOOL DANCE
One of the most attractive school 
dances of the sefison was given by tho 
M. M. D. Night School girls in the 
Union Friday night. The music fur- 
by Graffelder’s Orchestra was un­
usually peppy, and Oh! how the girls 
did enjoy themselves. Just ask them! 
Tills Is the first dance fif this type the 
Night School girls have had.
Much credit should be given to the 
committee which consisted of Miss 
L. Graffeldeig Miss Harbaugli and Miss 
McDermitt. Tho patronesses and 
chaperons' were Mrs. Scales, Dr. Ihrig, 
Miss Williams, Miss 'CiWYe and Miss 
Anderson.
THE DAVIS
The finest of entertainment will be 
found In the bill Of nine Keith vaude­
ville acts, to be presented at the Davis 
next week starting Monday, February 
7th. There will be two headline 
attractions, Gladys Clarke and Henry 
Bergman, assisted by the Crisp Sisters 
in “Tunes of the Hour,” and Lillian 
Shaw. America’s premier vocal dialect 
comedienne.
SCIENCE NIGHT MID-YEAR 
DANCE HELD AT UNION
The Night men of the Division of 
Science and Engineering held their 
first annual mid-year dance in the Car­
negie Union on Saturday, the 22nd of 
January. About fifty couples were 
present to dance to the Design School 
Orchestra jazz, and to partake of the 
brew concocted by the Dance Commit­
tee, which was composed of George 
Pettay and Samuel Levin. The pa­
trons were Dr. and Mrs. Rush, and Dr. 
and Mrs. Steidle.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY FOR 
ALL NIGHT SCIENCE MEN
A General Assembly for all Night 
men of I he Division of Science and 
Engineering will be held next Friday 
evening, February 4, in Room 209 
Science! at 9:30 o’clock. All classes 
will be dismissed at this time in order 
to permit the men to attend the As­
sembly, which will be of interest to 
everyone .
Several matters of importance will 
be brought’ before the men by Presi­
dent Greenwald, especially the ques­
tion of the Night Student Activities 
fee, and the matter of dues for all 
Night men in Science. If you have an 
axe to grind in regard to one. of these 
topics come to the Assembly and voice 
your opinion.
The group picture for the Thistle, 
which was to have been taken Friday 
evening, January 28, will be. taken by 
the Thistle photographer at the start 
of,the meeting.
ATHLETIC FUND CAMPAIGN
PLANS NEAR COMPLETION.
SOCIETY FORMED FOR
FUTURE RAILROADERS
A new society was born in Lehigh 
University on Thursday night, which 
has great prospects before it. It is 
an organization of men interested 'in 
railroads and railroading who either 
have worked for these corporations or 
intend to after graduation.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Alumni Federation in New York will 
be held tonight under the auspices ot 
the New York clan, in the green room 
of the Hotel McAlpin at 7 o’clock, this 
meeting being one of the first to be 
held by the clans. The meeting will 
be addressed by Director Ham- 
merschlag, Dean Connelley, members 
of the ¡Carnegie Corporation and fac­
ulty and G. L. Tilbrook, alumni exec­
utive secretary.
The success of last year’s banquet, 
when members of the clan, as well : 
a number of ' non members ' from 
Boston, Sclmectady, Hartford and 
other points attended, h^-s given 
hope of an even larger attendance at 
the meeting tonight. The committee in 
charge of the banquet includes A. H. 
Cowan. A. J. Kerin, G. L. Burgess and 
L. M. Merrill.
The continually increasing cost ot 
maintenance and support andthe lack 
of funds and materials to make neces­
sary additions to institutions during 
the war has resulted in many college^ 
and imiversities taking their cause to 
the public and making an appeal for 
funds for support. The list of schools 
already compelled to assume this 
course is large, but it is estimated that 
during the coming three years almost 
every private institution of the coun­
try will be compelled to retrench or 
inaugurate a campaign to continue ex­
istence.
With the growing importance oi 
Tech in a business and professional 
sense and the readily recognized im­
portance. of proper support of school 
athletics, the committee, feels that the 
minimum of ?50,000, the goal set So, 
the campaign, will be,realized, if every 
member of every committee and every 
Techite throughout the length and 
breadth of the country, get their 
shoulders to the wheel and give of 
their moral and financial support dur­
ing the period of February .14-28.
Boxing is the oldest of sports and 
dates back to Homer’s time, who made 
the- first mention of it in his Iliad.
plaining in a painstaking way a rather 
complicated problem in chemistry)— 
“Now, is that all perfectly clear?” 
“Clear as mud,” was heard from the 
back of the room.
“Well, that covers the ground,” said 
tbe absent-minded professor.
I To All Students Employed During 
Christmas Holidays
It is very important that you report your Christmas earnings to 
the Student Employment Bureau at once. This is to enable us to com& 
plete our Christmas report and have it ready by the end of January. 
Please co-operate with the Bureau and report at once.
J. W. BATMAN,
, Assistant Student Employment.
STUDENT SUPPLIES
Fountain Pens, popular makes, $1.50 
up; Eversharp and similar Pencils, 
50c up. Waterman’s Best Ink, Ink 
Tablets, “Tech" Recognition and Seal 
Pins, Rings, Frat Jewelry, Stationery, 
etc., Dance Programs, Favors, Sta­
tionery plain and tnonogrammed; 
Fountain Pen Repairing.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
FIRST FLOOR JENKINS ARCADE
REV. CARTWRIGHT SPEAKS
Rev. Cartwright, a favorite with the 
Industries men, having spoken to them 
several times before, had some real 
news to give them last Wednesday 
and gave it to them in his usual witty 
and forceful way. “Individualism,” 
says Rev. Cartwright, is the one ideal 
to strive for. "What are you going to 
give the world after your preparation 
is Over?
Rev. Cartwright told of an incident, 
with. a friend of his who who had 
studied and worked, and finally suc­
ceeded in getting five degrees, yet he 
had never done anything ifor the world. 
Upon presenting his degrees for 
approval the Rev. quoted, “Well that’s 
great but if you had the sixth you 
would know nothing.” Rev. Cart­
wright. Is no longer a pastor and is 
now lecturing over the country.
CLIP WENT THE CLIPPERS
ity.” Paddling is also subject to the 
Law of Diminishing Retuhis and when 
carried too far the pain inflicted' is 
not proportional to the amount of 
labor expended by the 'Spphs.
Cassidy as persecuting attorney, left 
nothing to be desired. If the circuit, 
tion of the “Puppet” was proportional 
to his “line” it wrculd leave the “Satur­
day Evening Post” gasping for breath. 
Mr. Cassidy's prosperous and well-feci 
appearance (enhanced by the “bug 
chasers” adorning his nose) quite 
awed the Plebes, who gazed open 
mouthed at this learned and intellecr- 
ual personage who deigned to notice, 
them. It is hoped that Mi\ Cassidy’s 
condescending in appearing as perse­
cuting attorney at the trial will bring 
the Plebes to realize that Regulations 
must be taken seriously.
GRAPHICA
At, a post-mortem trial lust, Wed­
nesday. the clippers clanked together 
and off went the golden locks of 
brother I’lebe. It. was cruel and one 
shudders to think of it—but it; had to 
be done so say the Industries’ Sophs, 
it; takes something lasting to impress 
upon our ugly ducklings the import* 
mice of Plebe Regulations. The Soph 
brand of paddling lasts a few days, 
but according t.q, the economic depart­
ment “It is obvious that there’s a great 
decrease in the utility of the coiumod-
Wednesday evening the Graphic a 
Club held its regular meeting at. the 
P. W. C. A. Hospitality House. The 
meeting was comfortably combined 
into a combined luncheon, lecture 
and business one,.
Professor lloyle. head of tho de­
partment. of printing,, gave the ad­
dress of the evening, followed by a 
short talk by Mr. Geist. Mr. Geist is 
a former student of the printing de­
partment. and is greatly interested in 
the work of the Grapliica. *
At this meeting the night men of 
the printing department were taken 
into the club as associate members.
Extensive plans for the February 
“Bagpipe.” a .printing magazine com­
piled by -the Grapliica, were made.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues.
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at­
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
“Friendly People.” A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
I went to the show the other night, 
with a low-brow friend, Jackson, and 
the orchestra- played “The Little 
Brown Jug.” 1-Ie thought it was the 
National Anthem and stood up, and 1 
did too, ¦darn him!—Student Life.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues.
Graded1 Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
S:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD AND DITHRIDGE STS.. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School—9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship—11 A. M.
Social Hour and Luncheon for Stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M.
Popular Evening Services at 7:45.. 
Sermon for Head and Heart. •
A cordial welcome to all students.
lUiniuniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinuiHiiiHUiniiiiiiuiuiiiniiiiiniiniiUiiniiiiiiiininiuiiuiiiiiiUiiiiiiiiiii^ 
We’ve Fitted Feet
Over Fifty Years j
P. LUDEBUEKL & SON
PENN & FRANKS- 
TOWN AVENUES
We -are now conducting 
our
SEMI-ANNUAL
RED TAG SALE
All Shoes Reduced.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist 
CLYDE STREET
Services Sunday—11 a.
m. and 8 p. m. 
Wednesday Testimony 
Meeting 8 p. m. 
Sunday School 11 a. m.
ALL ARE CORDIALLY 
INVI-TED TO ATTEND
ltifi5]9J5MBJSJ5J5M5JSf5jBJ2i5M9J5J5M5M5J5J5i
St. Paul’s Cathedral
Fifth Ave. and Craig- St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & Holy Days. 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle ’Aisle, for Tech 
Students.
GET READY
--------for--------
ADVANCE SUNDAY
AT THE OAKLAND METHODIST CHURCH
By Stopping at the
Oakland Community House
FOR READING, REST, RECREATION, INFORMATION 
OPEN ALL DAY EVERY DAY ~

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2. 1921THE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLÂATHLETICS -
| Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
j Capital - - - $200,000.00
a Surplus and .Undivided 
[ Profits - - - $300,000.00 S
8 Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 |
! Safe Deposit Boxes for !
| Rent
Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
JACQUE’S DANCING 
ACADEMY
Craig and Forbes
RESTAURANT I
On The Plaid Screen
By STUART P. SMITT
GROVE CITY DEFEATS 
PLAID TOSSERS 32-29
HOCKEY COMES INTO ITS OWN
Tech’s showing in the hockey game with Pennsylvania last Friclay has 
greatly delighted all the followers of Plaid athletics, and taken in any way 
was a remarkable showing tor the Tartans to make. Difficulties have beset 
the path of the puck chasers from the start, of the season, and the result of 
the contest is evidence of the real spirit that has been shown all along by 
Coach Gordon and his men. To tie one of the big eastern schols in hockey 
speaks well for any team, and when coupled with the fact that this is only 
the third game of a new team makes the result doubly impressive. It means 
that Tech has been able to put out in the first year the sport* has been 
resumed at the school a first-class seven, and that in -Coach Gordon we have 
a hockey mentor of the highest calibre.
Tech Forces Upstaters to Ut­
most to Win
W. & J. BESTS TECH 
FIVE IN FAST CONTEST
Skibos Lose Hard Game to 
Black and Red Team
STEPPING FORWARD
One of the best indications of how Tech has been stepping forward 
I athletically is the number of different sports in which there are teams 
representing the school. Last year the Plaid colors were flown in live 
branches of athletics, while this year they will wave in ten. Last fall football 
and cross-country teams were put out, and this N winter we have live with 
basketball, hockey, boxing and wrestling, swimming, and a rifle squad. In 
the spring the baseball, track and tennis teams will take the stage, making 
! d total of ten different sports in which Tech is represented.
At the Varsity Clan banquet held last June at the close of the spring 
I season much was said on developing athletics at Tech on broad lines, so as 
j to bring as many men as possible out for the teams.. This goal has now been 
| attained, and in looking around for something else to take up, rowring, soccer 
and lacrosse seem f.o be the only sports left. Rowing looks to be the best 
of the three, so if there are any oarmen in school, let them make themselves 
known, and we may have a Tech shell on the Allegheny next spring.
VERNON AND CURRY 
Proprietors.
4529 FORBES STREET 
A Bit Small 
But Oh, You Good Eats 
Try us and be convinced.
RIFLE CLUB
The new *Tech Rifle Club is progressing rapidly toward tlieir goal of 
putting out a first rate team. They have a strong organisation and the men 
out for the squad are showing the keenest interest in their success on the 
range. Now that sufficient rifles and ammunition have been procured so that 
every man may have plenty of practice, the individual scores show still 
further improvement. After the class meets have been shot off, the first 
team will probably be selected and the N. R. A. intercollegiate matches will 
begin on February 5.‘
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable prices 
3719 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
Opposite Library
finniaiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuniiiiiiininniiininiiiitiiiininninniiiiia — g 
Tech Barber Shop 
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes | 
| Fred Fargel, Proprietor | 
1 Nearest and Best Laun- : j 
dry Agency ;
INTRA-MURAL BASKET BALL
Judging from the form displayed in the first games of the Inter- 
Fraternity-Dormitory Basket Ball League last week, it is going to take a tirst- 
class five to win the championship this year. With one or two exceptions, 
every game was hotly contested. Most of the fives were lacking in team 
work, and the men did not have their shooting eyes in form, but these defects 
should improve rapidly with a little practice. A complete schedule of the 
two leagues was printed in last week’s issue of The Tartan.
BOXERS MEET PENN STATE FEBRUARY 5th
The Tech glove and mat men are doing some strenuous work these days 
fitting themselves for future meets. Road work, calisthenics and fast prac­
tice boutfe are bringing them into fine shape and the school will have formid­
able teams in each sport. The boxers are looking forward to their meet 
with Penn State on February 5, and after that a meet with the Navy team 
at Annapolis., Captain Wittmer is helping coach, the squad and giving the 
new men valuable pointers in their work. The squad has been cut to four­
teen men in the last few days and they are improving with every workout.
---------------4*--------------
PENN STATE, GROVE CITY AND GENEVA NEXT
Investment Vision
is a matter of broad ex­
perience and access to 
the sources of authentic 
information.
The securities we offer 
have been rigidly ex­
amined and approved— 
they are thp same we 
ourselves invest in.
Capital and Resources
$11,124,136.20Mellon National Bank
Pi11sbu|r<3h, Pa.
Bright eyes, 
rosy cheeks. 1§5 
and red lips 
come from 
aood digestion.
WRIGLEV’S Isa 
delicious aid to the 
teeth, breath. appe­
tite and digestion.
TftesealedsanlUiy Mdaae keeps ibe tootfness ani flavor In—keeps ouidxt find senni.
“Greasy” Neale looks to be as good 
a basket ball coacli'as he is in foot­
ball. Owing to his major leage activi­
ties he hasn’t had a chance to coach 
college baseball nine, but he could 
be depended upon to turn out a win­
ning team.
The Plaid floormen will travel to State .College Wednesday, Cor what 
promises to be the hardest game of the season on the Tartan schedule. 
Coach Dutch Hermann and four veterans from last year’s championship 
team to start with this season and with several good men from last year’s 
subs to pick from has moulded them into a fast team. They are perfectly 
at home on their large floor, which will be a big.handicap to Iddings’ men. 
The Blue and White team will make a trip to Pittsburgh next week to play 
W. & J. and Pitt.
Thursday night Grove City will come to Pittsburgh for a return game 
with the Tartans, followed by Geneva on Saturday night. Both contests 
will be hard fought and should prove fast and interesting. Geneva has a 
strong aggregation this year, with Heckert starring for them at forward. 
This is his first year at college basket ball and great things are predicted 
for him if he continues to play up to his present form.
The. improvement in the Plaid team has been very marked in the last 
few games and under Coach Iddings' efficient tutelage they should continue 
to get better. They have a hard trip looming up before them when they 
go north and play Buffalo, Colgate, Union and Rensaelear on successive' 
nights.
INTEMAT DORM BASKET BALL STANDING
West Virginia Wesleyan opened their 
new gym at Buckhannon last Satur­
day night.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
G. W. L. Pet.
Tau Gamma Phi ................................................... 2 2 0 1.000
Kappa iSimga Rho ............................................... 2 2 0 1.000
Sigma Nu .................................................................. 1 1 0 1.000
Square & Comp ..................................................... 2 I .1 .500
Wood lawn Club ........................................................ 2 1 1 .500
Dormitory 6 .............................................................. 2 1 1 .500
lota Sigma Delta .................................................... 2 1 1 .500
Delta Upsilon ......................'...................•............... 1 0 1 .000
Dormitory 1 ............................................................ 2 0 2 .000
Sigma Phi Epsilon ...........................................:.. 2 0 2 .000
AMERICAN LEAGUE
G. W. L. Pet.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........................................... 2 2 0 1.000
Beta Theta Pi ...............................................*........ 2 2 0 1.000
Dormitory 2 ..:......................................................... 2 2 0 1.000
Alpha Pi .................................................................... 1 1 0 1.000
Theta Xi .................................................................... 2 1 1 .500
Gpheleum .......................................:....................... 2 1 1 .500
Zeta Delta ................................................................ 1 0 1 .000
Delta Epsilon Omega .......-................................... 2 0 2 .000
Xi Sigma Upsilon ..................................................... 2 0 2 .000
Phi Epsilon Pi ................................................... 2 0 2 .000
RESULTS WEEK JANUARY 24th 
National League.
Iota ^gma Delta, 22..................................................................Dormitory 1, 16
Dormitory 6,- 17.......................................................................Square & Comp., 10
Kappa Sigma Rho, 17........................................ ..........................Delta Upsilon, 11
Sigma Nu, 30............................................................................Sigma Epsilon Phi, 3
Tau Gamma Phi, 31....................................................................Woodlawn Club, 17
American League.
Phi Epsilon Pi, 9.................................................................................Alpha Pi, 14
Beta Theta Pi, 12...........................................................Delta Epsilon Omega, 11
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 35...........................................................Xi Sigma Upsilon, 1
Beta Theta Pi, 36......................................................................Xi Sigma Upsilon, 6
Dormitory 2, 34....................................................................................Opheleum, 17
Theta Xi, 16........................................................................................Zeta Delta, 14
PENHOLPDSTOAR­T THUC L Graduate Manager Frank Haaren
D^D AT QMftl/FR spoke on the athletic drive which is
i Li nl H0TVTS. to occur the last two weeks of the
___________ | month and encouraged all of the men
(Continued From Page One.) j Present to take part, 
we must do all we can to help the au- j “Bob” Craig then made the good 
Lhorities toward making a better Tech. ! encouiaging all night men
™ to tak0 a more act»ve interest in the 
Bm P£ol,ts then llllked 0R activities of the school, after which
“spirit.” He pointed out the differ- the party disbanded,
once between the Rah Rah College boy i President Meixner of the Night In 
out for a good time and the real spirit | dustries' Schdol approached the men 
which stavs with a man always and is j as to the advisability of holding a
always looking for ways to make his ,th° £utu‘‘i unan-, . , , imously decided upon favorably, andschool Jjiggor and l.etter So that when j p)a„s now lmde|. (<) ^ (hc 
you say “I am a Carnegie man" it will; danco the latter ])arl n[ the montb 
imply quality the same as ‘ 57” on food j
products or “Cadillac” on motor-cars. j ------------------
The big surprise of the evening then The University cff Pennsylvania mat 
occurred when Lady Bullshowosky prc~ team and the West Virginia wrestlers 
sented an original and highly exhila-1 engage in dual meet at Morgantown 
rating oriental dance. Great interest j Saturday. Ccach Dayton has the 
was manifested by all present so that j Mountaineer grapplers in fine shape 
the Lady had to respond to two en-; for the contest and they expect to take 
cores. ’ £'ce decision in a majority of the bouts.
Displayitfg much speed and team 
work, Carnegie Tech forced the strong 
Grove City basket ball team to the 
utmost, to win, in the contest played 
on the Grove City court last Friday 
night. The game was fast from start 
to finish, and while the Crimson team 
led throughout the contest, the mar­
gin of lead was too close at any’time; 
to be comfortable.
The first half ended with the score 
17-14 in favor of Grove C\ity and in 
the opening of the second half, the 
Crimson team widened the gap and 
ran the score up to 30-21. 'Gibson was 
then substituted for Nicliol. and the 
•Skibo aggregation staged a rally. The 
last five minutes of play were the 
fastest of the game, and the specta­
tors were on their feet every minute. 
Although the-game was exceedingly 
fast it. was noticeable that it was not 
a rough contest.
Forward Dosey was the star for 
Tech, scoring six goals from the 
field. He also threw 9 fouls out of 
13 try's. For Grove City the main­
stays were Smith and Stenliahiiiii.
The lineup:
Grove City—32. Carnegie Tech—29.
Smith (C) ...........F____... Hainan (C)
Foster .................F.................... Dosey
Ruddick ..............C................. Bell
Stephauian .........G......... Pittman
Sellers -...............G............. Nlchol
Substitutions — Grove City, Shorts 
for Sellers; Carnegie Tech, McPhee 
for Hainan, Gibson for Nichol. Field 
goals—Smith 2, Foster, Ruddick 2, 
Stephauian 3, Sellers, Shorts, Hainan, 
Dosey 6, Bell, Nichol, Gibson. Foul 
goals—Foster 12 out of 18, Dosey 9 
out of 13. Time of halves—20 min­
utes. Official—Daugherty.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT
MUSIC HALL, FEB. 9
(Continued From Page One.)
make this a day never to be forgotten 
in their lives..
A third treat in''store-will be I ho 
first, appearance of the Ciirls’ Musical 
Clubs and if you are in need of a sun. 
cure for the blues you can rest as­
sured that a “money back” guarantee 
goes along with their performance. Be- 
sides the musical nunjbers several real 
surprises are to be in evidence and 
your only comment after the assembly 
will be “Gee, Tan, glad I calne..” 
There is no reason why every 
student should not be preso.nl and 
three good reasons why everyone 
should. Let’s make this assembly a 
real one and have the absentees 
numerically equal to the small end of 
that immortal score, 6;0,
Displaying a strong attack.* ami 
good team work, the Plaid tossers 
were forced to give in to the quintet 
of Washington and Jefferson Univer­
sity. last Thursday night at Washing­
ton, Pa., the final score being 31-32.
The Presidents had figured’ on lit­
tle trouble in downing Tech, due to 
the ease, which the former had in de­
feating Tech earlier* in the season, 
but in true Tech “dope upsetting spir­
it,” the Plaid eagemen came back 
strong and threatened to reverse the 
decision.
During the early stages of the game, 
playing was s.omewhat listless, with 
the Washington boys leading, but in 
the second half, which began 16-12 iii 
favor of the Black and Red, Tech un­
corked a splendid attack at the start 
and got within one point of the lead­
ers. before the onslaught was stopped. 
Then again the W. & J. boys came to 
the front, running the score up to 2S- 
20 in rapid fashion. The lack of abil­
ity to shoot field goals on the part of 
the winners was very noticeable, and 
had they been more accurate, the 
score might have been larger.
Carroll’s superb foul line work kept 
his team out in front all the time, the 
Red and Black captain getting IS 
fouls out. of 21 trys. He also played a 
hangup field coui t. game.
¦ Pittman was the whole works for 
Carnegie Tech. 1-1e literally ran wild 
on the floor, at times, stepping inside 
the Washington and Jefferson defense 
for five field baskqts. Ham man also 
played well after substituting for Mc­
Phee.
W. & J.—32. Carnegie Tech—31.
Carroll .............. .F.................. Dosey
C. Conn ___. .„...F................ McPhee
Eieisoh................C..................... Bell
Kaiser .................G............. Pittman
K. Conn ..............G.............. Nichol
Substitutions — N. Black for
Conn; McCandless For It. Black; Ram­
sey for Eielson; Eiolson for Ramsey; 
Gibson for Dosey; Hummann for Mc­
Phee. Field goals—Carroll 2, C. Conn, 
R. Black, McCandleBH, ICiolson. Kaiser, 
G. Gibson, McPhee, Hammann 2. Boll, 
Pittman 5, Nichol. Foul goals Car­
roll 18 out of 21, Dosey 5 out of 7, 
McPhee 3 out of 5, Boll 1 out of 2; 
Hummann missed I. Score at end 
first half—W. & .1. 16, Carnoglo Tech 
12. Roferoe—Slack. Umpire—Baird. 
Time of halves—20 minutes.
“FOLLIES OF 1922”
M. M. D. JUNIORS
(Continued From Page One.) 
put down February 4 and 5, Frillies of 
1922, and then'with two one dollar 
bills run for the nearest ticket agent 
because the lino is already of consld-
ALLEGHENY SUCCUMBS 
TO TARTAN ONSLAUGHT
Carnegie Tech Defeats Mead- 
ville Five in Fast Contest
Saturday night, at Meadville, Car­
negie Tech took the measure of Al­
legheny College to the tune of 31-27. 
Tech’s superior team work and play 
outshined the Meadville boys and at 
every turn. The lack of- ability to 
pass the ball, on the part of the Al­
legheny boys, was very noticeable,
and the score, if it took team work
into consideration. Would have been 
much more in favor of Tech than it. 
was.
Dosey again, led the scoring for 
Tech, he caging four field baskets, 
and-throwing 15 out of 23 fouls. Kof- 
ford of Allegheny threw 17 out of 23 
fouls.
The contest was in favor of the
Techites all* the way through, and only 
in the second half, for a. moment or 
two. was there any indication the Al­
legheny team would forge ahead of 
tlit Skibos, and at that, time the 
Meadville boys were within two 
points of the leaders.
The lineup:
Allegheny—27. „. Carnegie Tech—31.
Kofford ................F........... - McPhee
Miller ................ .F............................................. Dosey
Wise ....................C..................... Bell
Graham............ ..G................ Pittman
Parker .................................G. Gibson
Baskets Kofford 2, Miller 1. Wise 
I, Parker 1, Mtj.Ph.ee 2, Dosey 4, Bell 
0, Pittman 1, Nichols 1, Gibson 0. 
Fouls—Kofford, 17 out of 23; Dosey, 
15 out of 23.-.
PENN HOLDS TARTAN 
- I’UCKCHASERS TO 3-3 SCORE
'(Continued From rage One.)
Tech- -3. Penn 3.
Jeffries  ...............G...............Hodlund
Murray .............R. D................ Godden
Kearns...............L. 1)..............-. 3mor ti
Cook .................U.W............... Quinn
Dlall.................. L W............ Andrews
Pringle...........,\..C.....................Jewell
Sparo—OVllejlly, Fortier, Marte.ll, 
Dickey. Goals Pringle 3. Andrews 2,
Jewell. Periods— 15, 10 and .15 min­
utes'. Roferoos- harry 'McCormick 
and Madden.
erable length. Keep both dates open 
for you'll want to see it tho seconu 
night. Don't lot the sum of one hun­
dred “iron •men’’ sea,re you, for if need 
be you can use 75 to tho same ad­
vantage. For those who,care to, danc­
ing will be indulged in each night after 
the show and the place oh you! 
M. IM, Itocroatlon Hall, reputed lo have 
the longest row of front scuts of any 
house In tho, country,
wÄ’ir#>e--4;./J
Applying Theory
Westinghouse, putting the­
ory into practice, has em­
ployed the ablest technical 
graduates of the engineering 
schools of the country.
Annually over two hundred 
picked electrical and mechan­
ical engineers are trained. Be­
fore their analytical minds the 
field of electrical practice is 
systematically passed in re­
view until the work which
they can elevate into achieve­
ment is discovered.
In this way the directing 
personnel of Westinghouse is 
built- trained engineering 
thinkers put where they can 
achieve the greatest results. 
Bulletins descriptive of the 
various lines of work and the 
way young engineering grad­
uates obtain positions with 
the company will be gladjy 
furnished.
WcKtinnhounc Electric & Manufneturing Company 
l.ralrr, Pa. K»««t PilUburgh, P«.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1921
under "wav, is one means of 'support­
ing the schopl. If you have given you 
have helped, but if you have ignored 
all calls you have become a hind­
rance. ,
Let our motto be "All for one and 
one for all.”
Mon treasurer to keep track of Al- j 
umnuB subscriptions and dues col­
lected from the associations, in addi­
tion it it thought that tho work of the 
association officers will bo much sim­
plified by having all dues collected 
by the treasurer oil the Alumni Feder­
ation. In this way cut-'down over­
head expenses as well as being able 
to keep a more accurate check on 
how the payments are' made. Then 
the pró-rata share due each, associa­
tion will be paid to the ’ various asso­
ciation treasurers' at a certain fixed 
time,
Suggestion's' to this committee con­
cerning advisable changes in the 
present Federation constltulon ¦will 
be greatly appreciated’ anU should be 
sent in at once to the Alumni office.
CLAN NEWS
INDUSTRIESPITTSBURGH ALUMNIYOUNGSTOWN CLAN
Remember the smoker Tuesday, 
February 17, In Òarnegle Union íit 8 
p. m. Lots of entertainmeni, eats 
and smokps. The 1921 graduating 
class our guests. 'Everybody out fpr a 
real evening,
The committee for the revision of 
the Alumni Federatigli constitution 
held its first meeting January 27. This 
committer1 Is composed of the follow­
ing bóard members:
Alumni Federation—W!, M. Jtltts, J.
B. Sprague, Mrs, J. E, Hush, Charlotte 
Smith,
Division of Science and Engineer­
ing- .!. J. Daugherty, Thor Engstrom,
O. L, Til brook,
Division of Industries—W. JO. Black, 
W. S, itabensteln.
Margaret Morrison Division—Edna 
Smith, Mrs. J'1. Gaston.
Division of the Arts—Virginia
Schultz, F! C. McConell.
A general outline was drawn up 
concerning'1 the sections to be bin* 
bodied, In this constitution, the chief 
idea being to make the Alumni Feder* 
atlon-a body which will function for 
the best Interests of Tech. In addi­
tion the dues, the fiscal,year, and all 
(things common to the various associa­
tions will be simplified and made an 
near Identical as possible. Hereto­
fore the dues varied and the fiscal 
year ended any piace from the 
thirtieth of .June, thirtieth of •Septem­
ber to the thirty-first of December, 
making it ve,ry hard for the Federa-
The regular monthly meeting of the 
Board of Governors Alumni Associa­
tion, Division of Science and Engin­
eering, will be held Monday evening, 
February 14. at 7:30 p. m., in the 
Alumni office, room 115 B.
Since otur present, secretary Is In 
the school he has been able to accom­
plish. good work in building up our 
Alumni to its present strength.
A complete reorganization of the 
Industries Alumni was effected at the 
beginning of the present school year. 
A secretary, Mr. Batman, of the year 
J!I20, now head of the part time em­
ployment in the schools, was elected 
secretary of the Alumni Association, 
thla being a step rorwara in the right 
direction, as It put our secretary in 
the Alumni office of the schools.
It was decided by the Board of 
Governors to try to build up the mem­
bership of the Alumni, then consist­
ing of not over half a dozen paid up 
members; also to put the finances of 
the association oil a sound basis.’ We 
were then facing a considerable de­
ficit. More than gratifying results 
have been attained through the hard 
wor.k of our secretary, Mr. Batman, tho 
membership now'being around Xhe 275 
mark. The deficit is now erased and 
our books Show a gain of over $125.
Our secretary, with the aid of the 
Bpard of Governors, is still striving 
for the 100 per cent mark in member­
ship and to put and keep our finances 
In.a better shape.
The Board of Governors Is now 
turning II s attention to the social side 
of the alumni. ‘ A smoker, to be held 
in the Union for the graduating class 
and a theater party and dance for the 
graduating class, to lie held in the 
Little Theater in tlie Design School. 
Is planned for the month of February, 
to be followed later by a ball in the 
Union. Also the Board of Governors 
will try to arrange .that the out-going 
class be the guests of the association 
at IJie annual banquet. This is done 
in all the, other schools but has never 
been attempted by the Industries be­
fore.
The foundation has been laid to 
have an affair of some nature towards 
tho end of the school year that will 
be looked forward to from year to 
year by all members of the Alumni 
Association.
Suggestions will be called for from 
the membership for other affairs. The 
present Board of Governors and offi­
cers of the association are doing their 
utmost for the upbuilding of tlie asso­
ciation bu( they cannot succeed with­
out tho co-operation of all members, 
grad note's and students, so if you are 
no j, pi.id up HOW, become so at once 
and exert your In linenco to haVe all 
Tech men that you know become af­
filiated with the Alumni Association. 
You will i^lso receive the Alumni bi­
monthly. ituVl the Tartan, every week. 
Send that letter In today.
.1. 10. MIOSTA. Ml.
Member Board of Governors.
THE BEST 
RECOMtAtND 
ATM ON 
* MAN 
CNN VWJE .
(5
WEY.L-WESSÏi’i
APPENRftNCt!
THE GRAND
That there are certain secrets a 
woman should keep Is one of the les­
sons brought homo.forcefully in Clara 
Klmbutll young’s latpst dramatic 
photoplay, “Mush,” which has boon 
booked to toj) the program at the 
Grand next week starting Monday, 
February 7th, Dramatic suspense, 
alluring romance and red-blooded ac­
tion lo set the pulses throbbing and 
tug at the heart-strings, are among 
the qualities that "I-Iush” possesses.,
A feature of the program that will 
provide hilarity is the Mermaid Com­
edy “The Simp,” In which Lloyd Ham­
ilton. will be featured. Completing the 
bill will be the Grand News Weekly, 
"Topice of the Day” and special mu 
sic.
A
 WELL-DRESSED appear­
ance is a letter of credit 
to every other well-
dressed man in the world. 
There’s a sort of community of 
interest sentiment between
properly garmented men that 
assists those within the charm­
ed circle.
The stylish furnishings we 
are selling at such reasonable 
prices will aid you in your am­
bition.
Big reductions in all depart­
ments.
ALL ALUMNI INVITEDTRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOMJUNIOR PROM OF SCIENCE—INDUSTRIES—DESIGN 
MARCH 11, 1921 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
$8.50
mmmm.
The alumni who expect to come will help the committee if they 
will buy their tickets in advance. Make all checks payable to C. A. 
Blesch, Treasurer, and send remittance to W. M. Burke, care Design 
School, Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Engineers' equipment. Instru­
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
flllllllllll!!lll!!llll!!llllinililillllllllllllll!!ll!!lltllill!!!IP
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CAN’T III? BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
THE TURKISH 
‘— CIGARETTE
¿UIFHAMiER ¿EVANS
HATS
and
Men's Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
PITTSBURGH CLAN
The Pittsburgh Clan will luncheon 
at l he Chamber of Commerce Satur­
day, February 19, at 1 p. m., at which 
lime all the musical organizations of 
th'e school will be its guests. After 
the luncheon a musical concert will 
be given in the chamber's auditorium 
for the members of the Chamber of 
Commerce. This will be a great day 
for Tech and to boost our cause cir­
culate the good news around.
CARNEGIE TECH UNDER
INVESTIGATION BY COMM.Mrs. rox. was bragging one aay aoout tne large 
number of her cubs. 
“How many cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time?” she asked the LIONELS. 
“Only ONE,” replied the Lioness—“but i£s a 
LION.”
(Continued From Page One.) 
is a trustee of tlie University of 
Chicago, will make a special study of 
the relations of business interests and 
the community and the development 
of the Alumni Association and activi­
ties of the graduates. Mr. Christen­
sen is studying the finances and ac­
counting system. He arrived in Pitts­
burgh on January 17, and began woiV 
immediately. The other members of 
the commission reached the city on 
January 24 and had their first meet­
ing On that day. Dr. Angell and Col. 
Church were both present at this pre* 
liminary meeting. The commission, 
accompanied by Dr. Angell, called on 
President Hummorhchlag in his office 
and made a general tour of the build­
ings.
According to Mio statement given 
out to tho press the .commission ^vlll 
remain In the city for two weeks, and 
it is hoped that the individuals will 
have the opportunity of meeting the 
students, faculty, departmental and 
division heads.
She But don't you think that one 
player was just grand? He made a 
gain of front five to twenty-five yards 
ev6ry time lie had the ball.
Her escort...Why, which one do you
mean?
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 10 —BUT THEY’RE MURADS !
BATTERY
“Exide”SERVICE
Baum and Mellwood 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired & RechargedMURADS would be lower priced if we left out 
all or part of the 100% Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and be£ varieties grown—or if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn’t be MURADS—they’d only, be 
Foxes!
“Judge for yourself—/"
Special attention is called j\Umtftk-M&Gi
to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes ¡mdEj^iGpnOs,
Ararne
K «modeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
The latest inter-sectional football 
contest announced for next fall is Rut­
gers’ game with Georgia Tech at Atlan­
ta. .
$50,000 To Go—Every bodyon Your Toes
