Y. M. C. A. 
CAMPAIGNQTIn' parlati
FOOTBALL
SMOKER
VOL. XII. NO. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIANOV. 14, 1917
CARNEGIE DAY PROGRAM 
INCLUDES WAR PAGEANT
Prologue to be Given for First 
Time in Pittsburgh
The program for Carnegie Day, No­
vember 25, which will be given in Car­
negie Music Hall, will consist of the 
Pageant, “The Drawing of the Sword” 
together with a prologue now given in 
Pittsburgh for the first time. Certain 
of the episodes in this prologue will 
be similar to those in the first part 
of the National Red Cross Pageant re- 
. cently given at Huntington, L. I., and 
in the Metropolitan Opera House, New 
York. Though the prologue will not 
be in a sense a complete reproduc­
tion of the National Red Cross Page­
ant, both the prologue and the “Draw­
ing of the Sword” are to be given by 
permission to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in recognition of the ser­
vices of Mr. Stevens and the mem­
bers of the Dramatic Arts Department 
in the productions of the National 
Red Cross Pageant in New York.
For the Carnegie Day performance, 
however, new material will be added 
to make evident the relation of the 
episode chosen to the celebration of 
the birthday of the Founder. The 
performance will begin with a festival 
scene representing thé dedication by 
the genius of enlightenment of the 
altar to Peace. Upon this altar are 
laid in the succeeding scenes visible 
symbols of the highest achievements 
of the five of the allied nations, each 
national group presenting its symbol 
through a stately pantomime. Some 
of these episodes are historic in char­
acter, as for example the English in 
which the singing of the Magna Charta 
before the charter is deposited upon 
the altar, as a contribution of Britain 
to the cause of enlightenment.
Others of the episodes are purely 
symbolic in character, the Flemish 
scene representing in allegory four of 
the great free cities of Flanders. The 
French episode is again historic and 
¦deals with the life of Joan of Arc. 
"When the five national episodes are 
completed, the genius of Enlighten- 
(Continued on Page Three)
Ambassador Gerard Speaks at College Assembly; 
Student Y. M. C. A. Teams Seek $15,000 at Tech
4* *
4* PENN RELAY *
4. -------------- *
4* The Penn Relay will be held 4*
? this season on the last Thursday 4* 
4* and Friday in April. The Penn 4* 
4* Relay Squad and the Spring 4* 
4« Track Squad will begin training 4* 
4* this week. 4*
VARSITY TRAINING TO GIVE PITT HARD FIGHT
The Varsity is rounding into excel­
lent condition to meet Pitt at Forbes 
Field Saturday. The two weeks’ rest 
lias given the men opportunity to re­
cuperate from the slight injuries in­
curred at Cornell. Coach Steffen has 
taken advantage of the time to bols­
ter up the backfield by giving them 
intensive training on the defense. The 
line held well at Cornell, but the sec­
ondary defense was weak on several 
occasions. The Coach has determined 
to eradicate the possibility of a repeti­
tion of this fault.
The squad has been materially 
strengthened by the return of Levin­
son. At the beginning of the season 
he gave brilliant prospects, but sus­
tained a broken shoulder in the Army 
game. In that game he tackled Van- 
dergraff so hard that both men have 
been out of the game ever since. He 
is an exceptionally fast end.
The entire squad had ring side seats 
at the Pitt-W. & J. game. Each- man 
made a detailed study of the play of 
his prospective opponent. Although 
the Panther showed well in that game, 
its defense crumbled under the severe 
W. & J. onslaught in the second half. 
Last year Tech came back and played 
Pitt off her feet in the second half and 
it is to be expected that the Plaid will 
fight this year in a similar manner.
- Irrespective of the score it will be 
a hard fought battle and although the 
team is green, it can be depended 
upon to give a good account of itself. 
Captain -McFeaters is in fine condi­
tion. His bad knee is not troubling 
him any more. Early, Avho is the only 
Tech man who has scored against 
Pitt, has recovered from his severely 
wrenched shoulder.
SCIENCE SENIOR CLASS HAS IMPORTANT MEETING
A meeting of the Senior Class of 
the School of Applied Science was 
held on Monday, Nov. 12, from 12:30 
to 1:30 p. m. in room 122 of Science 
building. The meeting resulted in a 
lengthy and warm discussion, which 
was carried on the entire hour, on the 
previous action taken by the class on 
the question of gymnasium and mili­
tary drill.
Three things were actually accom­
plished: The petition which was
drawn up and presented to the faculty 
in regard to gymnasium and military 
drill was withdrawn.
The action taken by the class in re­
gard to gymnasium was rescinded.
The majority of the class seemed to 
be in favor of supporting whatever 
action might be taken by the faculty 
about gymnasium and military drill.
FOOTBALL SMOKER TAGS PROMISE LARGE CROWD
The plans for the annual Pitt-Tech 
smoker are now about complete. As 
everyone probably knows, it is to be 
held in the Union after the .Varsity 
clan- banquet. Manager Mills-is ex­
erting every possible effort to make it 
the best football smoker that ever 
took place at Tech.
The program is not complete as yet 
but the management assures that it 
will be entirely an original one. Among 
the numbers are the usual songs. An 
instrumental number will be given by 
T. C. Smith, Cost, Sweeney, Ellerton, 
Brandin and Sorberg. This group is 
noted tor their expert playing and are 
always able to please. Wrestling 
matches will probably be held and 
speeches will be given by the Captain 
elect and the retiring captain who 
generally makes his farewell to the 
students as a spotlight in Tech foot­
ball on this occasion. Another num­
ber which promises to be interesting 
is a monologue by Stotz.
Be sure and get your red tag as soon 
as possible. It’s too good to miss.
VARSITY BASKETBALL 
SCHEBULE ANNOUNCED
The Varsity Basketball team has an 
interesting schedule this season, and 
although some of the games will no 
doubt be hard fought, with the loyal 
support of the students the team 
should make a fine showing.
The schedule is as follows:
Pitt, W. & J., F. & M., Lehigh, 
Swarthmore, Bucknell, State, Alle­
gheny, Grove City and Westinghouse.
An offer has been made by Yale to 
play Tech, provided Yale Alumni in 
Pittsburgh can be interested in the 
matter and the East Liberty Y. M. C. 
A. ¦ gymnasium secured for the game.
No definite arrangements have been 
made with Yale as yet.
The varsity practice hours are an- 
sounced elsewhere In this issue, the 
Plebes will continue to practice as 
before, on Tuesday, Thursday and Sat­
urday evenings.
CIVIL SOCIETY DANCE? PROVES GREAT SUCCESS
The dance given by the Civil and 
Sanitary Engineering Society in Car­
negie Union last Friday evening, was 
quite successful and ea-ch of the sev­
enty couples that were present spent 
an enjoyable evening. There were 
eighteen dances and during an inter­
mission the Seniors presented a bur­
lesque on the Sanitary Engineering 
laboratory. Practically the entire Civil 
department faculties were present. 
Music was furnished by Sweeney’s or­
chestra.
The committee that supervised the 
arrangements consisted -of Harry Gel- 
lin, chairman; C. A. Andrews, C. D. 
Mills, H. A. Urmston, H. A. Roberts, 
and T. J. Nuttal.
Sixty-five Students on C. I. T. Committee Pledge $613: Will 
Solicit Subscriptions From Everyone in School
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH SEEKS $20,000
In the Syria Temple Ex-Ambassador Gerard yesterday addressed 
a joint assembly of students from Western and Pittsburgh Theo­
logical Seminaries, from Pennsylvania College for Women,.University 
of Pittsburgh, and Carnegie Institute of Technology. Ilis talk and 
the one following by Mr. Mace were the opening guns in the big local 
collegiate campaign on behalf of the V. M. C. A. The colleges of 
America are atempting to raise one million of the fifty millions sought 
by the. association in their national campaign.
The work in the local colleges is in the hands of student com­
mittees. The head of the Y. M. C. A. at Tech is R. K. Merkcr, of the 
Industries School, and under him are. sixteen teams, one for eacli 
class in each school. The student workers met in the First Baptist 
Church on Monday evening; after listening to talks from prominent 
Y. M. C. A. workers in the state and nation, separated into groups 
according to schools. The sixty-five men and women representin 
Tech then made their personal pledges; from these sixty-five $613 
were pledged. With this as a basis, the Tech committee decided that 
from the four schools, day and night, student and faculty, nothin 
less than $15,000 could be expected. It is with this sum as their aim 
that the teams have started out on their whirlwind campaign to inter 
view every single man and woman at Tech.
Tech’s rival, the University of Pittsburgh, is doing even better. 
From the forty-five representatives present from their school, the sum 
-------------------------------------------------------?of $1,171 was pledged, and they have
4'4*4*4>4>4«4>4«4*4(4'4'4,4'4,4>4* 
* +
4* TICKET SALE FOR *
* PITT-TECH GAME *
•I* --------- 4*
4* Tickets for the Pitt-Tech game 4* 
4« will be on sale for night men at 4« 
4* the Graduate Manager’s office on 4» 
4* Wednseday, Thursday and Friday 4* 
4* nights. The scale of prices are 4« 
4* as follows: 4*
4» Cheering Section.........$1.10- 4*
4* Grand Stands..............$ 1.65 4*
4* $2.20 4*
4« These prices include the war 4» 
4« tax, and student tickets will ap- 4* 
4* ply as fifty cents on the cheering 4* 
•I* section tickets and as one dollar 4*
? on those in the grand staled. 4»
4* 4*
4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4« 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4« 4* 4» 4*
INDUSTRIES PLEBES RE-ORGANIZE FOR YEAR
The Plebes of the School of Applied 
Industries met last Friday afternoon 
and reorganized their class. President 
H. Adams of the Middle class acted as 
chairman. It was decided that the 
various officers should be nominated 
and voted on at this meeting. The 
following is a list of the candidates 
and the number of votes each receiv­
ed:
President.
Sykes .................................................3
Lynn .................................................27
Cargo .................................................16
Shearer .............................................. 7
Vice President.
Hammen .........................................14
Stierheim ...........................................16
Knight ................................................13
Secreta ry-Treasurer.
McCoy ...............................................22
Woods .............................................. 8
Mock ...................................................11
Moore ............................................. 5
Athletic Representative.
Akins ..................................................22
Gieser ................................................12
Poestel ...............................................12
'Continued on Page Three.)
set as their aim $20,000. The results 
from the other schools were as fol­
lows: Ten representatives from P. C. 
W. pledged $272, and aim to collect 
$1,500; eight representatives from the 
two seminaries pledged $225. For the 
five schools the totals run something 
like this: The one hundred and
twenty-five men and women who form 
the student teams have pledged $2,281 
and aim. to have their college mates 
pled£u $37,000 within four days. The 
teams are meeting every evening this 
week to comparo results.
At the meeting yesterday morning 
the whole auditorium was packed, 
the girls of the schools being seated 
on the first floor. The faculties and 
the C. I. T. band were upon the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
BUSYiiSEASON AHEAB 
FOR DRAMATICSTUDENTS
B. Iden Payne, associate director of 
the drama department, Is expected 
this week and will begin rehearsals 
for a bill of short plays to be staged In 
the near future. The department will 
no doubt have a very busy season this 
year, and the students of the other 
schools will be furnished with a great 
deal of entertainment within the next 
few months. It is very unusual to 
have two visiting directors here at the 
same time, and the students feel that 
they are certainly on “charette.’
DR. BLAIR OF M. M. C. S. REACHES FRANCE SAFELY
A telegram from the American Red 
Cross headquarters at Washington 
was received this week saying that 
Dr. Blair had arrived safely in France 
with the Civilian Relief Corps. The 
Orphan War Fund Dance at Carnegie 
Union on November 15, is a crystalli 
zation of one of Dr. Blair’s sugges­
tions—to adopt a number of orphans 
and support them through our ow^n 
efforts.
RAISING OF SERVICE: FLAG
4.4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4« 4. 4. 4. 4. 4.4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. 4.
AVIATOR STIRS TECH 
STUDENTS BY ABDRESS
ORPHAN WAR FUND DANCE
4»
4*
4*
4*
4«
4*
4*
4*
4«
4« 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4« 4* 4* 4« 4' 4* 4« 4« 4* 4* 4* 4*
•I* 
4* 
4*
The Orphan War Fund Dance 4* 
to be held in Carnegie Union on 4* 
Nov. 15 is given for a worthy 4* 
cause. It needs and deserves 4* 
everyone’s support. 4*
STUBENTS VOTE ON GYM OR DRILL AT ASSEMBLY
The November All-Schools Assem­
bly was held Wednesday, Nov. 8, in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. For the first 
time since the installation of the Gen­
eral Assemblies, the meeting was turn­
ed over to the students. Dean Con- 
nelley made the opening remarks and 
hand.ed the meeting over to Mr. 
George Todd, President of the All- 
Schools Council. Mr. Todd made sev­
eral announcements and then all atten­
tion was devoted to the topic of the 
day, “Military Drill, or No Military 
Drill.” Much interest and discussion 
was given on the part of all those pres­
ent.
Some of the classes and depart­
ments tendered resolutions on the sub­
ject, expressing their exact attitude. 
Of these resolutions, a number drew 
intensive arguments by various mem­
bers oL’ the student body and faculty. 
Professor Keller mado sevoral com­
ments. He maintained that the grav­
ity of the subject was 110 doubt not 
well understood by many, and as a re- 
(Continued on Pago Three.)
MR. POWELL TO DIRECT “SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL”
The Drama Department of Appllod 
Design Is at present reading for Fran 
els Powell, a diroctor who arrivod here 
last week to dlroct one of the large 
productions of the year. The play 
which will bo givon Is Sheridan’s 
"School for Scandal.” Mr. Powell Is 
an experienced director, and the de­
partment has boon oxcoodlngly for­
tunate is securing his sorvlcos He 
was for eight years stage manager for 
E. I-I. Southern, and has dlrectod somo 
of Nazlmova’s productions as well. 
For a number of years Mr. Powell has 
acted us diroctor of Iho Harvard Dra 
malic Club, and during last year 
served In that capacity for the Me- 
Callum Little Theater In Northamp­
ton, Mass.
DRAMATIC DEPARTMENT WILL PRODUCE PLAYS
Saturday night will probably mark 
the last performance of Gilbert’s “En 
gaged,” which has proved a success 
with the student audiences, as well as 
an opportunity for scoring personal 
hits for a number of members of the 
Drama Department.
Another Gilbert comedy, “Sweet­
hearts,” is scheduled for production 
Friday afternoon, however, and it Is 
expected to please as well, if not bet­
ter, than “Engaged.”
Friday night “The Daimio’s Head” 
will be repeated as a part of the Ur­
ban Universities’ convention program.
MUSICAL CLUBS WILL1 HOLD ANNUAL SMOKER
The annual smoker of the Musical 
Clubs will be held on Saturday, Nov. 
24. It will be a chance for everyone 
to get acquainted as well as enjoy the 
eats. The program will be taken care 
of by the men who are trying out for 
reader or for the specialty “stunts.” 
Each one who wishes to try out for 
either of these numbers will have an 
opportunity to “produce” that night. 
Keep this date open for it will be well 
worth the while.
Service Flag Raised After 
Tilbrook’s Talk
A most enthusiastic outburst of real 
Tech spirit greeted the return of Cap­
tain C. L. Tilbrook, Science, ’15, to his 
alma mater, when he spoke to the stu­
dent body of the Science School last 
Friday morning, on the eve of his de­
parture for active service in France.
Captain Tilbrook, who is in com­
mand of a flying detachment in the 
Tenth Squadron of the U. S. Signal 
Corps, was introduced by former Dean 
Leete. The Captain’s speech concern­
ed chiefly the present school crisis in 
regard to the readoption of military 
drill. Disappointed because of the 
lack of military spirit at Carnegie 
Tech, and because of the attitude dis­
played by some at the last general as­
sembly, he expressed the hope that 
Tech would soon awaken to its duty 
and appreciate its responsibility to- the 
nation and to the .Tech men that are 
now serving the nation. He attacked 
Vigorously the position of those stu­
dents who maintain that there are no 
benefits to be derived from military 
drill and related episodes from his life 
as a soldier to prove his argument 
that military drill cultivates discip­
line, courtesy, and good soldierly bear­
ing, three elements the lack of which 
General Pershing regretted in the 
makeup of the American Expedition­
ary Force in France.
That part of Captain Tilbrook’s ad­
dress which concerned his personal 
experiences in the Aviation Corps was 
especially interesting. He told of 
watching the llllnols-Wlsconsin foot* 
ball game from the air, of traveling 
above the clouds, and of covering 
“sixteon miles In eight minutes flat.” 
This part of ills well-dellverod speech, 
together with his clear description of 
the life of a recruit in the aviation 
camp will no doubt win many more 
enlistments In that branch of the ser­
vice from iho Science student body.
A fitting climax to this most sue* 
(Contlnuod 011 Page Three.)
TECH RESERVES DEFEAT SLIPPERY ROCK NORMAL
The Toch Resorvos dofoatod Slip­
pery Rock Normal 12 to 7 on Toch 
Field Saturday. The gamo was hard 
fought and played 011 a hoavy Hold. 
In many respects the game rosoiubled 
the Varslty-Alloghony fracas, few mon 
being rocognlzablo after the first fow 
minutes of play.
Schmuckor and “AVlator” Gove 
starred Cor the Scrubs. In the first 
hall’ neither team showed any force 
on the offense. Slippery Rock made 
Its touchdown 011 Hogan recovering a 
fumble and running seventy yards for 
touchdown. In the socond half 
Schmuckor and Gove gained consis­
tently and the Tech team had little 
difficulty in making gains when need­
ed.
Higgens kicked off and Slippery 
Rock returned to the Tech 42-yard line 
where it was hold for downs. A series 
of line plunges by Anderson made it 
first down, but the Scrubs were penal­
ized fifteen yards for holding and 
forced to punt to Grubb 011 his 50-yard 
line. Glasgow and Grubb made it first 
down on three line plunges. Slippery 
Rock was penalized twenty for hold­
ing. Gove blocked Grubbs’ pass. Gay- 
lor broke through and blocked Grubbs' 
punt, but Slippery Rock recovered it.
In the second quarter Slippery Rock 
made it first down by several line 
plunges. Tech then took the ball from 
them on downs on the Slippery Rock 
35-yard line. Hogan recovered a fum­
ble and ran seventy yards for touch­
down. Grubb kicked goal.
Higgens kicked off to Iffert, who was 
downed on the 30-yard line. Grubb 
punted to Gove at midfield. Tech was 
(Continued on Page Three.)
M0REW00D DORM GIRLS HAVE NOVEL WAR FUND
There Is a little box on the mantle 
In the hall of the Morewood Dorm and 
on this box Is printed “War Relief 
Fund.” Many of the girls have already 
perfected a systematic way by which 
the contents of the box can be increas­
ed. Some have selected that of giv­
ing pleasure money; others, penalize 
themselves for using slang. Each week 
the money is counted and given to the 
phase of war work on which the girls 
decide.
COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES PATRONS FOR DORM BALL
The Inter-Dorm Ball committee an­
nounces as the patrons and patroness­
es:
Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag.
Dean and Mrs. Mott.
Doan and Mrs. Bossange.
Doan and Mrs, Connelley.
Dean Mary Breed.
Dr. and Mrs. Esquerro.
Director and Mrs. Leete.
Miss C, Nelson.
Miss I. Hewitt;
Miss M. Coleman.
It should be borne i.i mind that to 
gain general admission to the bail, at 
least one party of each couple must 
be a dormitory resident. With the 
well-known Nlrella’s Orchestra to fur­
nish the music, there is nothing but 
complete success in view. The ball is 
the talk of the day and is bound to 
eclipse any other event.
)

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, November 14, 1917
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of. Technology.
Entered in the postofilce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.60
• SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chief ...
Phone Grant 388-R.
............... Paul H. Armor
Business Manager
Phone Schenley 910*7
...............Nelson P. Rice
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Pafluin 
Assistant Managing Editor
L. E. Eraerlch
Editors 
Marguerite Bollinger 
Salome Stamm 
P. S. McNamara 
Joseph Levin 
Design Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
n James Church 
Scicncc Assistants 
Meirihold Bingham 
Industries Assistant 
R. P. Avery
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marguerite I-Ialdeman 
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
BUSINESS 
Manager Mailing List 
H. R. Titus 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Exchange Manager 
J. L. IJerrman
TARTAN OFFICE..
Hours--2:00 to 4:00 
4:30 to 5:00
............................................Room 162, Design
Mon days.
Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should ue> sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should he reported 
at once. ____________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired. ________________________________
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays._______________________________________________
•b •b ? •? •b *£• *b ? ? ? »2» 'b •£• *i* •b *> 'i' ? 4* * *
* THISTLE NOTICE *
*i* -------- *b
•b The students of all four schools 4* 
•b will be doing the Thistle Board ? 
*b a great favor if they will donate
* any snap-shots, suggestions, or •b
•I’ bits of humor happening around * 
4* the campus. There is a Thistle *2* 
*2° Box in each school. 4*
*b?j* »1* 4* *b *b *b *b *1* *1* *b 4* v *b *1* *2* *1' *«* *2*
FIRST SERIES ADDRESS' DELIVERED TO PRINTERS
The members of the Department of 
Printing were favored last Friday by 
an address by Fred W. Gage of the 
Gage Printing Co., Battle Creek, Mich. 
He spoke on the benefits derived by 
printers through organization. Mr. 
Gage speaks not only with the knowl­
edge gained by conducting a success­
ful business organization for many 
years, but also as treasurer of the 
United Typothetae, the national or­
ganization of Master Printers.
This is the first of a series of ad­
dresses to be given before the Graph- 
ica during the coming winter months 
by the “big men” in the printing and 
publishing business.
TRYOUTS BEING«HELD
THE PRESS ANDTHE TREASURY
FOR PLEBE BASKETBALL
THE SERVICE FLAG.
’['he question of a service flag has been agitated rather spasmod­
ically first by one group oi students then by another. Meanwhile the 
authorities have been busy collecting through Mr. Tumpane’s office 
a list of faculty, alumni and undergraduates who have enlisted, or 
been drafted; and the net result to date is five hundred and twenty- 
four men. The work has been tedious and difficult; it is for that 
reason that the flag has not been raised sooner. Now that it is 011 
the campus it is something to be proud of, something to honor and 
reverence.
Unfortunately the manner in which the exercises at the raising 
of the flag were conducted has occasioned not a little dissatisfaction. 
Some loyal but indignant students from Design and Margaret Morri­
son would like to ask why Design, Margaret Morrison, and Industries 
were not invited to participate, since all three—no, all four—schools 
have sent representatives into the service. We feel that the question 
is particularly pertinent in view of the untiring efforts which the 
girls of.the schools in question have been putting into the complex 
tasks of the present.
Wc might add to their question one of our own as to the pro­
priety of student cheering on such an occasion. Wc feel that a flag 
raising, particularly of a service flag, is after all a rather solemn 
occasion. Men in service stand at salute, and civilians uncover. 
Why, then, the cheering?
But, after all, these mistakes, however unpardonable they may 
seem at, the moment, arc n)orc details. The tiling to remember is the 
fact that, we do have live hundred and twenty-four men of whom we 
are proud; that Tech is doing her bit even to the extent of giving to 
the nation a very large percentage of her men both past and present.
SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
During the past two weeks we have heard more than one dis­
cussion as to tlio advisability of continuing social affairs under pres­
ent. national conditions. In view of such happenings as the raising of 
our service flag, the opening of the Y. M. 0. A. campaign, and the 
abandonment of the Design Ball for this year, if seems quite appro­
priate to think seriously of the question at. this time.
Alter one such discussion of the question several men who were 
perhaps more deeply interested than most, took it., upon themselves 
to write personally to eight of the most, prominent men and women 
connected with Tech. Unfortunately, both their letters and the 
replies were written in confidence; so we can give neither. However, 
we do not feel that we are breaking any confidence by giving the gist 
of their letter and the consensus of opinion among tlie replies.
The letter merely asked for 11 personal opinion in regard to which 
of three possibilities should be pill-sued:—continuing all social af­
fairs as in ordinary times, continuing all social affairs but modifyin 
some or all to conform more nearly to present conditions, abandoning 
some or all of the affairs.
The replies were practically unanimous in their approval of the 
second course, suggesting that the, more important gatherings like 
Design School Ball, Junior Prom, and Senior Ball be made as econom­
ical as possible, and that all unnecessarily gay features be eliminated 
entirely. One writer, we believe, suggested either the abandonment 
of the larger functions or their modification perhaps by some scheme 
through which every dollar given for pleasure would be accompanied 
by a dollar for some worthy purpose like the Y. M. C. A. All the 
other replies, insofar as they were definite at all, seemed to favor 
the continuing of all modified social affairs; everyone expressed the 
belief that a certain amount of society was an absolute necessity for 
a broad education, even now.
This decision is evidently right in line with that arrived at by 
the students 011 their own initiative. The status of the Design School 
Ball has been discussed in former issues of The Tartan. The Junior 
Classes of Science and Design are following that example by extend­
ing an invitation to the M. M. O. S. Junior Class to join in the Junior 
Prom, on the theory that one promenade is less expensive than two 
smaller ones, held separately. The Prom committee, when appointed 
either from the two or the threo schools, will doubtless work to de­
crease expenses still farther; so that the affair of the present year 
may depart quite a bit from precedent. Almost all the smaller dances 
held in the Union this year have been for the benefit of some worthy 
cause—the Red Cross, the French War Orphans, and so 011.
We believe that the course being pursued is the right one. If 
we are to do our duty in aiding the men at the front, we cannot allow 
ourselves to become so depressed as we would be under the abandon­
ment of all social activities; yet neither can we carry those activities 
so far as to forget, the present needs or give the lie to our efforts on 
behalf of our fighting countrymen.
Coach McCollouRh iias had from 
twenty-five to thirty Plebes out every 
evening tor tile last three -weeks try 
ing ouL for the Plehe Basket Ball 
team. Among this number is some 
very promising material. Up to date 
the squad has not been cut and it is 
difficult t0 select the men who will 
constitute the team.
The Varsity lias been comparatively 
fortunate in having a number of last 
year's letter men back in school 
Abrams, Cary, Foxen and Gretzler are 
back. "Nig" Finlay did not return and 
Abe Levy was called into the Naval 
Reserve shortly after returning to 
school this fall. Green, last year’s 
captain, also did not return. The prin­
cipal difficulty will be to develop a 
pair of guards to take the places of 
Levy and Finlay.
The managerial staff lias also felt 
the stress of present conditions 
"Shorty" Miller, manager-elect, was 
drafted, and PiLts, bis first assistant, 
has been selecLed to take his place. 
Manager PiLL.s is being assisted by 
Tumin, Stupikoff. Beck and Yelle.
GRABUATE ABBRESSES MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
At a meeting of the Carnegie Me­
chanical Engineers’ Society, last 
Thursday evening, a very interesting 
tnllc was given by Mr. J. C. Hobbs, 
Science, ?10. Mr. Hobbs is nt present 
a» efficiency engineer for the Du 
quesne Light Company. His subject 
was “Central Power Stations." /
MENORAD SOCIETY TO WOLD MNCE NOV. 22
The Monorail Society will hold a 
dance Thursday evening, Nov. 22, at 
8:15 p. m. Jacques Hall at Forbes and 
Craig streets has been secured for the 
occlusion. Strangers are most cordial­
ly invited to attend and get acquainted 
with the others. Tickets will be one 
dollar per couple and may be obtain­
ed from Sharove, Senior Architect.
M. M. C. S. GIRIX ELECT NEW SHILLING BOARD
The Shilling is under new manage­
ment this year. There are to be two 
issues, the first to be put out by a 
board of editors elected from the Cos­
tume Economics, Household Econom­
ics, and Science Departments. The 
second issue is to be put out by the 
Secretarial, the Arts and Crafts, and 
Social Service Departments. Each is­
sue is to be representative of the de­
partment issuing it. The board of 
editors for the first issue are:
Florence Swartwort, C. E.
Lynda Lyman, C. E.
Irene Deneke, C. E.
Florence Bechtel, H. E.
Charlotte Miller, H. E.
Harriet Stone, H. E.
Grace Rupert, S. '
Laura Kramer, S.
Virginia Stark, S.
M. M. C. S. NOTES
Mrs. Frank Aimie, formerly Miss 
Ada Hopkins, head of the Social Work 
Department at M. M. C. S., has gone 
to Toronto, Canada to spend a week 
with her husband, Mr. Frank Aimie 
of the Canadian Aviation Corps', be­
fore he is called into active service.
Since the United States entered the 
war thousands of patriotic Americans 
have volunteered their services to the 
government. Some volunteered their 
services in the Army, some in the 
Navy, and some in various civil em­
ployments. In addition, many in the 
two Liberty Loan campaigns and in 
other great national measures have 
devoted and 'are devoting all or part 
of their time at a nominal compensa­
tion, or entirely without compensation, 
to the service of their country.
If ever a list is made of these Amer­
ican citizens who have volunteered 
their services to their country at war 
it will be found that no calling, pro­
fession, or business can show a higher 
percentage (if any can be shown so 
high) as that of the press of the na­
tion. The large city dailies, with their 
tremendous circulations, and the small 
local weeklies that penetrate into the 
humblest homes of the dwellers in vil­
lages and on farms alike have devoted 
their talents, energies, and space to 
their government.
The loyal foreign-language papers 
have been as generously patriotic as 
the others and have preached Ameri­
canism and duty in thirty-six differ­
ent languages.
In the Second Liberty Loan cam­
paign, as in the First, the newspapers 
of the country have shown their un­
selfish patriotism, and the splendid re­
sults in each campaign are in a great 
measure evidence of their power and 
influence.
Many millions of American newspa­
per readers are now bondholders of 
their government, a great number 
made so through the influence of the 
newspapers they read. They are in­
terested as never before, and in a 
more direct, personal way, in govern­
mental matters, and especially in the 
finances of their government.
In addition there are to be other is­
sues of government bonds. These 
bond issues are not going to be sold 
entirely through patriotism and en-. 
tliusiasm. Emotion alone will not suf­
fice to induce the American people to 
absorb these tremendous bond issues. 
The judgment of the nation must be 
appealed to and the people must be 
thoroughly educated and informed as 
to United States bonds and govern­
mental finance.
The Treasury Department will con­
tinue to send out to every newspaper 
in the United States its weekly press 
matter. It sends this out with no de­
sire or intention to secure free adver­
tising or free publicity at the expense 
of the newspapers. Its object and its 
purpose are to furnish to the editors 
of the country informative matter con­
cerning the Liberty Loan Bonds and 
matters directly or indirectly connect­
ed therewith.
It is believed that many editors, es­
pecially those living in the smaller 
cities or towns, often have not the 
necessary sources of information at. 
hand,,and others possibly have not the 
time to prepare financial articles of a 
more or less technical nature. More 
over, as we here in the Treasury De­
partment are often uncertain, until 
careful investigation, of the exactness 
and accuracy of our knowledge of 
some of these matters, it is thought 
not unreasonable to presume that 
sometimes busy editors are troubled 
with similar doubt.
It is with the idea, therefore, of be­
ing of assistance to the editors of the 
country who wish to keep their read­
ers informed of the Liberty Loan in 
its various phases and uses that this 
weekly press matter is prepared and 
sent out.
What of it shall be used, how piuch, 
if any, and how it shall be used is left 
entirely, of course, to the judgment of 
the recipients, but to carry out the 
idea of assistance so far as possible, 
the matter, is prepared in a form 
ready for the printer.
It is in a spirit of cordial co-opera­
tion and reciprocation, in return for 
the tremendous assistance they have 
given the Treasury, that the weekly 
press matter is sent out to the news­
papers of the country.
Miss Ernial Pruyne, last year's stu­
dent government president, visited M. 
M. C. S. on Saturday, Nov. 10. Miss 
Pruyne is teaching costume economics 
in Wdynesburg.
Miss Maud Sanford, president of 
the 1915-16 Guild, visited Morewood 
Avenue Dorm over'the week-end. She 
is at present managing a lunch room 
in Ohio.
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMIC GIRLS EXPPERIMENT
For the past week the Senior House­
hold Economic girls have been per­
forming a most interesting experi­
ment. They have each had a foreign 
family assigned to them. Every morn­
ing they visited the family, took .an in­
ventory of the daily food supplies with 
their local market value, determined 
and classified the waste food, and 
found out what the family was to have 
for breakfast, dinner and supper. At 
the end of the week they sent in their 
reports. The government had the girls 
make this experiment to learn the 
dietary habits of a typical foreign fam­
ily.
This week these same girls are mak­
ing themselves useful to the govern­
ment by demonstrating in the Food 
Conservation Kitchens, at Fifth ave­
nue and wood street.
AMBASSADOR GERARD SPEAKS;
Y. M. C. A. TEAMS SEEK S15,000
(Continued From Page One.) 
stage. While the audience was,being 
seated the band, who had marched to 
the mosque in front of a procession 
of students, played patriotic music; 
immediately afterward the audience 
sang “America” with Merker leading.
Chancellor S. B. McCormick intro- 
duced Judge Buffington as the pre­
siding officer. In the absence of 
Dr. Galpin who was to have deliver­
ed the invocation, Judge Buifington 
called upon Dr. Holland, whose pray­
er was impressive and wonderfully 
appropriate to the moment.
Following the invocation, Judge 
Buffington introduced Ambassador 
Gerard, whose entrance during the 
playing of "America’’ had caused an 
outburst of applause. The ambassa­
dor’s message, coming as it did from 
the source of operations, undoubted­
ly made an impression which would 
be hard for any other man to equal. 
Unfortunately he had to address 
three other meetings in Pittsburgh, 
and so had to leave early. -After­
wards the assemblage sang “Onward 
Christian Soldiers.”
The most striking part of the whole 
program was undoubtedly found in 
the unexpected talk from Mr. Charles 
Mui'ray, a Canadian soldier who had 
lost a leg in the battle of the 
Somme. Mr. Mace, head of the Y. 
M. C. A. in Canada, explained that 
he had asked Private Murray and 
several other wounded Canadians to 
come to the United States to aid 
in the Y. M. C. A. campaign by tell­
ing just what America is up against 
and just bow wonderful an aid the 
Y. M. C. A. is. Mr. Mace said that 
Private Murray was a fighter not a 
talker, but evidently the audience 
made up their minds that he was 
both. His story of his time in the 
training camp, his first taste of the 
trenches, his being captured and 
wounded while on listening post 
duty, and his confinement in a Ger­
man prison camp beld the attention 
of the men and women present in a 
way which even the trained speakers 
failed to do. The applause which 
followed was at once a tribute and 
a promise of support.
Mr. Mace then completed bis own 
talk, explaining just how the Y. M. 
C. A. bettered the conditions as Mr. 
Murray had told of them. He then 
went into details as to the local 
campaign, giving the amounts sought 
by each school as above.
The meeting closed with another 
appeal by Judge Buffington, the ben­
ediction by Rev. Neeld, and the play­
ing of “The Star Spangled Banner.”
The whole theme of Mr. Gerard’s 
talk to the assembly and of the talks 
to the committee by Miss Pearson, 
Women’s Secretary for the State; Mr. 
Groll, Men’s Secretary for this State, 
and Mr. Tinker, of the National Com­
mittee—the whole theme of these 
talks is the crying necessity for con­
tinuing and expanding the work of the 
Y. M. C. A. In American camps the 
seven or eight Y. M. C. A. houses are 
the only places in the whole twenty 
miles length where men may lose for 
a moment the all-absorbing work of 
war. The Y. M. C[ A. is bettering the 
conditions for women near the camps, 
and is enabling the visitors at camp 
to find their relatives quickly and 
safely.
In Europe the Y. M. C. A. is helping 
anyone and everyone—to date they 
have aided more Roman Catholics and 
Jews than men of their own denomin­
ations. In Russia the head of the 
work among prisons is a Greek Cath­
olic; in Austria, a Roman Catholic; 
in Germany, it happens to be a Luth­
eran.
Just as present most of the U. S. 
men are in Farnce. After spending 
four or five days in the rain, mud, and 
cold of the trenches, with death ever 
present, it is no wonder that when re­
lieved they are inclined to go to the 
opposite extreme. With American 
soldiers, the best, paid of all the allied 
troops, it is they who are going to fol­
low the call of the cities unless the 
one other attraction, the Y. M. C. A. is 
always present with them.
In tbe prison camps in Germany and 
Austria, conditions could not possibly 
be worse. Insanity stalks forth open­
ly. With six million men cooped up 
with nothing to do from morning till 
night, day in and day out, the Y. M. C. 
A. must indeed be a godsend.
"ARROW
form-fit
COLLAR
20<reac/i ZfayP
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL,
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, S:00, 9:00, 10:00 and-1 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. 
Parish Hall and Gymnasium, Craig: 
street.
GRACE CHURCH
(Reformed)
AYARD AND DITHRIDGE STREETS- 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Pastor 
THE MAKEUP OF A MAN 
Students’ Series 
SUNDAY EVENING SERMONS 
At 7:45 
GENERAL SUBJECT:
“Man is a Soul and has a Body.” 
Nov. 18—The Searchlight of the Soul.. 
Nov. 25—The Steering Apparatus of 
the Soul.
Dec. 2—The Alarm Clock of the Soul- 
Dee. 9—The Sunshine of the Soul.
Dec. 16—The Picture Gallery of the 
Soul.
Dec. 23—Illustrated Lecture.
(Christmas.)
Dec. 30—The Soul’s Book-Keeper.
(The End of Year.)
ST. ANDREW’S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Centre and Morewood Avenues 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bible Classes at 9:30 A. M.
Morning Worship, 10:45; Evening,.. 
7:45. Helpful sermons on Bible- 
themes only.
A hearty welcome to students. 
HENRY P. ECKHARDT, Pastor.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45- P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefield.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
• ¦ M. A. (Glasgow) r 
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8. 
Bible School 9:45. 
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M- 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and1 S:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages.. 
A cordial 'welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
He who is false to the present duty 
breaks a thread in the loom, and w 11 
find a flaw when he may have forgot­
ten its cause.—Beecher.
Pray to God at the beginning of thy 
works, that thou mayest bring them 
to a good conclusion.—Xenophon.
ISÍ5/5J515/S/5J5J5/5/5/5/5/B/S/5J5/5/5J5/5Í5/5/5/5/51 
S GET YOUR HAIR CUT 
i --------at the---------
TECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Toch 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES [g 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor |
giniiiiillllilllilH
Mellon 
1 National | 
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. | 
I 409-413 Fifth Ave. jj
I 406-410 Oliver Ave. | 
y Capital - - - - $6,000,000 |
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
migïiMii
Students Cordially Invited
---------to the--------
YOUNG MEN’S BARACA BIBLE 
CLASS
Every Sunday Morning—9:45
--------at---------
OAKLAND BAPTIST CHURCH 
McKEE PLACE and LOUISA STREET 
COME, VISIT US and enjoy an hour 
with the real Bible as it appeals to 
real men.
OAKLAND M. E. CHURCH | 
Forbes and Bouquet Streets || 
Rev. George Avery Neeld,
Minister £
Morning service at 10:45; || 
Evenings at 7:45; Bible School ^ 
at 9:30 A. M.
Sermon subject Sunday Evening {| 
November 18:
"Materialism—the worship of E 
Iron, Gold, Silk and Sensation.” |
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS.
Phones 160—3161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
We paint our lives in fresco; the 
soft and fusile plaster of the moment 
hardens under every stroke of the. 
brush into enternal rock.-—Sterling.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 14, 1917THE TARTANPage Thre
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSORS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon­
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
y5JSJ5J5J5J5J5J5MSMSi5iH5J5M5i5J5J5J5ISJ5iB/5M5/5J5J5J5/S/5i5M5iBM5M5M5/5/5J
The Dansant 
“EarS Fuller’s Jazz Band”
DIRECT FROM RECTOR’S, N. Y.
IN CONJUNCTION WITH RIEHL’S NOVELTY ORCHESTRA
Duquesne Garden Ball Room
Mr. W. E. McCoy and Miss Helen Withum
-THE DANSANTS-
TUESDAY, THURSDAY AND SATURDAY EVENINGS
.SUBSCRIPTION, $1.50 
,iSEi3MSMSMSMSM3MSM2M3í3M3MSM2MSM3MSJ3M3MSÍSM3MS/c!MS/3McMMc!í3Jc!j
/SÍ2M2M2MSM3M3Í3M3M3J2M3M3MSMSMSM3M3M3M3MSMSM3MSÍSMSMSMSMSJ
BATTERY
"£jctfe
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
Repaired and Recharged
VOOL.L.L.LXLOLXLL.L.LOLOLOION9CA.LOLOLOL.L.NOL.LOIOL.LRELXLXL
J3/2ME!J2M2M2M2M3M3M3MSM2M2MSM2M3M2MS/SMSM3iSMSM3M3
STUDENTS
We rent and have for sale Full Dress, Tuxedos, single and 
double breasted frocks, and all accessories for day and even­
ing dress. Prices reasonable, efficient service.
WHITTING DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-2-3 JENKINS ARCADE 
Both Phones.
(gj5HSM5J5M5iS/5MSMSM5iSM5M5j5MBM5/5M5J5M5M5M5/S/5fS/SJ5M5EJ
MURDOCH, KERR & COMPANY
Incorporated
Makers of CATALOGUES, MAGAZINES, NEWSPAPERS and BOOKS 
ALL KINDS OF MERCANTILE PRINTING 
Telephone 1052 Grant. STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS
GANDIES
There is no finer expression 
of friendship than the sending 
of a Box of R. V. B. Chocolates.
“Ask the girl who knows.”
SELLING AT ALL 
STORES
iSEJSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSJSMSMSMSMSL 
STUDENT LUNCHEON &
Milk or Coffee, 5c Pie, 5c per cut s 
Hot Chocolate, 10c g
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c Ej 
Ice Cream, 10c
THE HALLER BAKERY |
3610 FORBES STREET 1
Iroquois Block.
/3M2MS/SJ3M3MSJ3M3M2MSMc!MSiSM5.,^i 
WANTED 
Students to take orders for our 
EXCLUSIVE 
CHRISTMAS CARDS
PIERPONT, SIVITER & CO.
Phone 358 Hiland. 
119 SHADY AVENUE
A man, be the heavens ever praised, 
Is sufficient for himself; yet were ten 
men united In love, capable of-being 
and doing what ten thousand singly 
would fall in.—Carlyle.
MR. WARDROPTO ADDRESS INDUSTRIES ASSEMDLY
Considering the position of the 
United States in this, world-wide war 
and the share of news it commands, 
the Student Assembly of the School of 
Applied Industries considers itself es­
pecially fortunate in securing Mr. G. 
Douglas Wardrop to lecture to the stu­
dents at the next regular assembly of 
the school. Mr. Wardrop comds from 
New' York for the purpose of this ad­
dress alone.
Besides the lecture, which promises 
to be one of the most intense interest 
to the students, motion pictures'will 
be shown of the large Handly Page 
bombing machines in action; demon­
strations of wireless direction by ar­
tillery, a trip around New York in a 
flying boat, and sea plane and kite 
balloon activities at Salónica. Lan­
tern slides will follow, illustrating 
bomb dropping, aerial photography, 
night flying, aerostatics, naval aero­
nautics in every phase, I he Zeppelin, 
and concluding with the demonstra­
tions of the part that the aeroplane is 
going to play in our everyday lives 
after the war.
Mr. Wardrop is editor of the Aerial 
Age Weekly, director of the Aeronau­
tic Library and Aeronautics Photp and 
News Service. He is a member of, the 
Aero Club of America, the Society of 
Automotive Engineers and the Frank­
lin Institute.
A cordial invitation is extended to 
the students and faculty of the four 
schools to attend' the lecture.
TECH RESERVES DEFEAT
SLIPPERY ROCK NORMAL
(Continued From Page One.)
penalized for off-side play. Three- 
passes by Gove were blocked and on 
the next play he fumbled, Hogan re­
covering for Slippery Rock.
Slippery Rock was penalized fifteen 
yard for holding and Grubb punted to 
Gove on the forty-yard line as the half 
ended.
In the second half Schmucker went 
in at quarter and Gove was shifted to 
a half. Scott kicked off over line and 
the ball was put in blay by Tech on 
the 20-yard line. Schmucker carried 
the ball around left end for first down 
in two plays. Swift and I-Iiggens were 
held at the;line and Schmucker made 
six off tackle. Gove punted out of 
bounds on the Tech 45-yard line. 
Grubb was held at left. end. Three 
line plunges netted but five yards.
Grubb punted to Schmucker on the 
25-yard line. Higgens made five at left 
tackle. Schmucker circled right end 
for thirty-five yards and Swift went 
through left tackle for seven. 
Schmucker made six off right tackle. 
Swift crashed through the line for six, 
and Gove hit left tackle for a-like num­
ber. Gove’s fumble was recovered by 
Hogan on the Tech 7-yard iiné.
Grubb punted to Schmucker who re­
turned to the 15-yard line. Gove made 
five at right end. Schmucker skirted 
right end for a tolchdown. The kick- 
out was missed.
Groves kicked off to Swift who re­
turned to the Tech 40-yard line. Gove 
made five off right tackle. A pass was 
blocked. Gove made eight off left 
tackle. Gove was forced to punt when 
the backs failed to gain. Grubbs fum­
bled the kick and Hoffman recovered 
on the Slippery Roclr 20-yard line. 
Young intercepted Schmucker's pass 
on his 10-yard line. Slippery Rock was 
penalized five for being offside. Grubb 
lost three at right end. Saylor broke 
through and blocked Grubb’s punt 
from behind the goal line and Hoffman 
fell on the ball for a touchdown: Hig­
gens kicked out to Gove, but Schmuck­
er failed to kick goal.
Hoffman kicked off to Glasgow’ who 
returned to the 30-yard line. Grubb 
punted to Schmucker on the Tech 45- 
yard line. Gove, Schmucker and Swift 
carried the ball to the 20-yard line, 
but Grubb recovered the. ball and the 
game ended with Slippery Rock hold­
ing the ball on her own 28-yard line.
Score—Tech Reserves, 12; Slippery 
Rock Normal, 7. Lineup:
Tech Reserves. Slippery Rock. ¡
Hoffman ...........L. E................ Groves
Henderson -----L. T................. Storps
Saylor ..............L. G..................... Bank
Gare .....................C........................ Fox
Lein .................R. G.... Hockenberry
Hedlund ..........R. T.................. Knapp
Kramer ............R. E..................... Scott
Gove .....................Q................... Grubb
Good ................R. H................. Young
Anderson .......L. H..................... Iffert
Higgens ................F.............. Glasgow
Substitutions — Swift for Higgens,
Higgens for Good, Schmucker for 
Gove, Gove for Anderson, Raymond 
for Levin, Mathew for Hende-son. 
Mathews for Swift. Referee—Graff, 
Ohio State.
INDUSTRIES PLEBES
RE-ORGANIZE FOR YEAR
(Continued From Page One.)
Club Room Committee (2).
Whitehill .............................................
Shaner ...............................................28
Spelker ...............................................
Rudisell ...................;.......................23
Tho following were declared elect­
ed by Chairman Adams: Lynn, Presi­
dent; Stierheim, vice president; Mc­
Coy, secretary and treasurer; Akins, 
athletic representative; Shaner and 
Rudisell, club room committee.
President Lynn took the chair and ap­
pointed a social committee. It is ex­
pected that with the new officers all 
of whom are well qualified for their 
respectful positions, the Plebes of In­
dustries will soon pull off some event 
that will show that they are on the 
job and not marking time.
* 4* 4* 4» *v* ? •£* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* * »1« * * * 4*4*
4* *
•I* MASS MEETING— 4*
* UNION—THURSDAY 4*
* *
* At 4:30 p. m. Thursday, Cheer- 4* 
4« leader Stark will hold a big mass *1* 
4* meeting. This meeting is held 4* 
•I* with the idea of completing plans 4« 
4* for the Pitt game and he appeals 4* 
4* to every fellow’s school spirit to 4* 
4* be at this meeting. New songs 4* 
4* and cheers will be practiced. 4* 
4* Everybody out! 4*
4* 4*
4< 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* *£* 4* 4* *3* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4* 4*
PROGRESSIVE PARTY PROVES A SUCCESS
STUDENTS VOTE ON GYM
OR DRILL AT ASSEMBLY
The Inter-Dorm Progressive Party 
of last Friday was very successful, 
judged from all reports. The three 
men’s dorms met separately arid ar­
ranged for a prompt departure to their 
respective first stops. All went well, 
and the girls’ dorms were ideal places 
for the fellows to get acquainted. Each 
of the men’s dorms visited each of the 
girls’ dorms, "progressing” every hour. 
The last stay was the longest in each 
case.
At Forbes Hall the Progressive 
Party came off with much fun and hil­
arity. The first feature of each hour 
was an original song of welcome by 
the Forbes Hall Glee Club, which was 
met With much applause. When “Dear 
Old Tech” was sung, the boys joined 
in heartily, after which some rousing 
cheers were given for Forbes Hall. 
Dancing was the main diversion of 
the evening with plenty of cider and 
doughnuts to till up intermissions. 
Everyone enjoyed himself and declar­
ed that Tech spirit was just bubbling 
over in Forbes Hall.
At Morewood Dorm the true Tech 
spirit prevailed and the ghtfs certainly 
thank the Dorm boys for their efforts 
in making this innovation a success­
ful one. Miss Lulu Fuller as chair­
man of the reception committee had 
as co-workers Misses Rliobie McClos- 
ky, Blanche Morey and Isabel Green- 
burger. New and exceptionally fine 
music was given by Mr. N. Haus Mul­
ler of the Design School. Punch was 
served throughout, the evening and 
fruit salad to the third section. Misses 
Helen Hollman as chairman with 
Misses Grace Rupert and JoHephino 
Anderson assisting had charge of the 
refreshments.
Tho dormitory men spent, a pleas­
ant. evening at Fifth Avenue I-Iall. 
Large bouquets of chrysanthemums 
decorated the living room. During the 
evening refreshments were served in 
the dining room. Dancing formed tho 
chief pastime. The party is one of 
the memorable events of the year.
CARNEGIE DAY PROGRAM
INCLUDES WAR PAGEANT
(Continued From Pago One.) 
ment returns to proclaim festival over 
the progress of the world and I his fes­
tival is broken up by the incursion of 
War and his barbarous horcles. Thus 
the prologue, as a whole builds up j
symbolically the statements of the | plained tho attitude of th
achievements of Peace, and prepares 
the way for the dramatic masque of 
the allied cause, “Tho Drawing of the] In regard to th<
Sword.”
This dramatic masque was original­
ly produced at “Tech” on llie fifth of 
June and since that time has had an 
eventful history. The original cast, 
from the Dramatic Arts Department, the drill was started on the Plebes
played it for the National Security | own Initiative,
League at Chautauqua early In July and Tho best means' were found in a 
on a tour of the State of GRST Vir-1 compromise between drill and gym. It 
ginia in the service of the State Coun-jwas decided to put. the matter into 
cil of Defense in mid-summer. It has • the hands of the various faculties, who
(Continued From Page One.) 
suit, not every influence was properly 
directed. He remarked that although 
the drill as attempted by the Plebes 
was not of the highest order, it show­
ed the proper spunk. In regard to 
patritism, Mr. Keller distinguished 
three classes, the bank book, patriots, 
whose reputation and money make 
themselves, the real patriots who dem­
onstrate their love of country by do­
ing things, and. those who are neither 
of these two, but strictly unpatriotic. 
The student body is best fitted to show 
its patriotism by doing things. In this 
respect, he wants to see military drill 
installed to show the rest where we 
stand. He concluded that, concerning 
the alternative of gymnasium exercises 
military drill was as good physically 
ton times as good spiritually and. one 
hundred times as good for our neigh­
bors.
In a resolution tendered by the presi­
dent of the Science Senior class, on 
behalf oftliatbody.it was maintained 
ed that, first the trial of drill last 
spring was a failure, second, drill 
would teach little or nothing and take 
up time, third, that drafted men in 
tho cantonments would derive in one 
or two weeks, what would take eight 
or nine months here, and fourth, the 
weather made drill impossible. It. was 
further maintained by others that the 
gymnasium was inadequate for the ap­
proximate eight hundred, and equip­
ment was not sufficient. However, in 
the past, gym has been successful and 
will remain so if properly fostered. A 
conference concerning gym work was 
favored. Their resolution has since 
been withdrawn.
Mr. Pierce of Military Affarrs gave 
a brief history of military drill in the 
institute. He proceeded to outline 
several courses which might be pur­
sued, and carried out either by the 
students or faculty. He drew analog­
ies with West Point, and showed how 
even a little drill is of immense value 
later ou. He insisted that either gen­
uine physical training or military drill 
are necessary for the proper mainten- 
once of standards.
The matter was further taken up, 
and another man explained that, the 
system of drill will bo very different 
from last spring’s attempt; it will 
probably be compulsory, supported by 
the trustees and faculty. Real drill 
with no personal “drag” will bo the 
outcome.
Further objections were made to 
gym work. It was claimed that phys­
ical training under the present condi­
tions was unhealthful and against the 
principles of hygiene, that equipment 
was inadequate, and that all schools 
carried as much scholastic work as 
was possible for a. human being to 
carry, let. alono extra hours at. drill 
or gym. It. was further claimed that 
Plebes, ovidently the staunchest sup­
porters of the movement for drill, 
wore unaccustomed to conditions, 
henco thoir enthusiasm. Tliero has 
already been a change mado In 1 lie 
gym schedule for tho Design students, 
to moot tho irregular conditions In that 
school.
The Scionco l’lebo President ex- 
Science
lobes in this work. There was a 
3nso of duty, with our country at war.
next draft, to which 
men of nineteen to thirty-one years 
of ago are liable, there Is no tolling 
whom of our body will he taken, and 
Miiv preliminary I raining will be of 
I 'finite value to those chosen. Hence
pniiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM
THE ftjg
SENSIBLE .
ThirdUnTrUteP
- FOR THE 
STUDENT
also given about fifty local produc-1 arcto canvass each student individual-
lions in different parts of the country, ly as to his preference for gym or 
fn September Mr.* Stevens turned over' drill and take steps accordingly. The 
the dramatic rights to the American1 canvass is now being conducted by 
Red Cross and it became a part of • the faculties, and the students will 
*V; National Red Cross Pageant. In I abide by their decision and arrange- 
this case it was produced by a dis- ’ mcnts. It is not now known how soon 
tinguished star cast and became the 
offering of the artists of the stage to 
the Red Cross. The first performance 
having been highly successfully, five 
subsequent performances were arrang­
ed in New York alone. All these pro­
ductions being made with the assist­
ance of members of the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology Department of 
Dramatic Arts and in two cases with 
as many as nine members of the origi­
nal cast playing their parts.
It is now selected for the Carnegie 
Day celebration for the particular 
benefit of new students who did not 
have an oportunity of participating 
in or seeing the performances given 
here last June.
The music for the entire production 
is under the direction of J. Vick 
O’Brien of the Music Department.
Faculty and students can secure 
cards of admission to the pageant at 
the Registrar’s office in the Central 
building, beginning Wednesday, Nov.
19.
4‘4‘4*4*4‘4‘4*4*4*4*4*4‘4*4*4‘+4'4*4« 
<i> •b
4* VARSITY BASKET- 4*
4* BALL PRACTICE 4*
4* ---------- +
4* Practice for Varsity Basketball 4* 
4* will begin one week from today, 4* 
4* on Wednesday, Nov. 2!, and will 4* 
4* continue every Monday, Wednes- 4? 
4* day and Friday thereafter at. five 4* 
4* p. m. ** 4*
4»4‘4‘4,4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*^4'
Cheerfulness is a s»mall virtue, it is 
true, but it sheds such a brightnness 
around us in this life that neither 
dark clouds nor rain can dispel its 
happy influence.—E. V. 'B. Alexander.
anything definite can be done.
AVIATOR STIRS TECH
STUDENTS BY ADDRESS
(Continued From Page One.) 
cessfui meeting was furnished Dy Di­
rector Leete when he made a stirring 
appeal for the adoption of some phase 
of military work by the students. Re­
ferring to Captain Tilbrook’s predic­
tion that “this war will last at least 
three years more,” the former Dean 
stated that “last spring, when the stu­
dent body began its military drill, it 
was the time to prepare; NOW is the 
time to FIGHT.” Asking for a stand­
ing vote of those students who were 
in favor of military work to be pre­
scribed by the administration, he re­
ceived a unanimous response’from the 
students.
After the meeting, which was at­
tended by practically the entire Sci­
ence student body, and a good many of 
its faculty, the students marched to 
the flagpole. Here the new service 
flag was raised, on which was repre­
sented the number of Tech men who 
are now engaged In the national ser­
vice—524. Captain' Tilbrook raised 
the flag, with the assistance of Dean 
Mott, In his Introductory speech at 
tho assembly, Director Leete had 
lauded the fact that of the 524 men, 
2-17 are from the Science School. The 
number on the flag Is to be changed 
each month, according to the total 
number of enlisted Tech men, but the 
students will never forget the first 
numerals—5, 2, 4.
A cruel story runs on wheels, and 
every hand oils the wheels as they 
run.—Ouida.
4 81012:
g The Personal Writing Machine 
p So simple in construction 
and operation that any- 
^ one can use it without 
H previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
P-lce $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard! Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENINGS
EBell Phone 3465 Grant.J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE ¡¿i 
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
BSi5iSiSiSJSJMSfSMSTc!Jc!JiilJ51c!i5iSI5J5JSiSI5i01
Liberty Show 
Print
PHIPPS POWER BUILDING « 
Duquecne Way and Fifth Avc. 
PITTSBURGH
"SCHENLEY EATS” 1
,1
A good place to get a good meal, jii
Meet your frlondn hero on 
Sunday evening.
FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor.
CRAIG AND FORBES
fi^It?7ëIÎi3/nînüJêîJô! ië1 fïïi fïï1 fé1 rñi '
OAKLAND 
HARDWARE CO.
HARDWARE AND 
HOUSE-FURNISHING GOODS 
3606 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
lolMSMSMcîMSMSMS/cycîiSMSiMSlSfiiîIcycMrc
Our convenient location in Oakland? 
enables us to give you excellent serv­
ice. Cleaning and pressing done on 
short notice. Special service to fra­
ternities and rooming houses. Let us 
have a trial order. Call Schenley 875~ 
J. E. T. SHUMAN 
3911 Forbes Street
QU3M3JSMSMc!ic!fG!M3M3MSMcU2MSJ3ISi2i' 
| WEBER EXPRESS AND §: 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenie-y. 
Moving, Packing and Storing 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen­
eral Hauling Baggage to and 
from Depots.
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET 
PITTSBURGH
I3MSM3M3/3M3MMSM2/3M3M2M3JSEJ3/S
C. ¿TU. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA- 
STATIONER AND 
NEWSDEALER 
Phone 9076 8chenley. 
TS/SM5/5/c!JS/5/5JSí5M5/c]JSM5Jg!/S/5/5/í5JS/5JSJSí
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late mocfers; 
Three months for 
$7.00. Specia.l. 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac­
tory Rebulit Ma­
chines.
Amerioan Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
.I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 14, 1917THE TARTAN"Page Four
P.LUDEBUEHL S SON
SHOES AND HOSIER) PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
Footprints Lead to Detection
Schenley Theatre
¦Park 110PHONE-
ABORN COMIC OPERA COMPANYThe standing of a man is as ofte-i 
as not told by his footwear—if he iw 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are “all right.” Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
AN OPERATIC MASTERPIECE BY VICTOR HERBERT
The Fortune Teller
—Evenings and Sarurday Matinee, 25c, 50c, 75c. 
Bargain Matinees Thursday, 25c and 50c.
Downtown' Ticket Office, Hamilton's Music Store, 815 Liberty Avenue.
COMING:—Mile. Modiste, Mikado, A Modern Eve, Mad Cap Duchess. !§]
& &
PIlininiI[linilllIHIinilllllllill!l!Il!llIlllllll!!Illl:D!l,llll!UIII!l!llll[IF.ni!llIII!Ill!IIIIIl!<!ll!llll!Illll!i!lll1llllQlllIUlUIIillllil!III!UIOII!!ll!iIIII!!illllllIIIIIIIIiniIllliinilOUIIIllllllllO!!l!llllIlllil!IIlill[!l!III
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK"
CAPITAL,.........................................................................$200,000.00 |
SURPLUS,........................................................................$200,000.00 j
DEPOSITS OVER $3,900,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Many 
Styles 
of Type 
and Many 
Languages
“A National Institution”
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR I 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
!!IIIUWaillllilUII!IHIII!l9Ull}|IIIMn!IIIITII<in!hl«i!linitSIII!!IIIIilim!«!llll«IU!ll!IUIII!llflll!lltl!iail!l!llll!l!llll!lin;!lll!IIIIIIIII!IU!!lrillllIiaiiDI!inilillUll!llllIlllliliUlllIIIIUliaiiaUUUlin
OAVIS THEATREA Typewriter £xceptional
For Collcgiann 
Change your type in an instant from one 
style to another—or any language.
THEGROCERIES TOBACCO CANDY \
Patronize Home Industry
Woodlawn Avenue. |
tlllllilllllllllllllinillilMUlM
LUNCHESMULTIPLEX
HAMMOND
You can't m¡6S us.
A. ASLIS—Tailor
Cleaning and pressing.Maker of fine clothes.
MODERATE PRICES
120 MEYRAN AVENUE4692-R Schenley
| McDOUG-ALL’S DANCING CLASSES
1 SHADY AND PENN—DANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY j| 4616 FORBES STREET—FRIDAY EVENINGS 1
9U Private Lessons and Beginners’ Classes every day and evening. !|j 
j|] Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra j|J
Miss Helen Senn, President of the 
M. M. C. S. Senate, and Miss Helen 
Savard, the Junior Delegate, will at­
tend the annual conference of tlite
BELLEFIELD GARDENS
(near Schenley Farms)
Bell: field Gardens are located within ten minutes walk from the 
Tech Schools. We have to offer six eight room brick dwellings with 
all modern improvements, two bath rooms, large closets, hot water heat, 
hardwood floors and finish. Each house is provided with automobile
Price we ask for these houses is 40% less than they can be built for 
to-day. We will offer very reasonable terms. For information, see
Nicola Land
1414
Company,
Farmers BankBuilding
PittsburghPhone, Grant No. 3
^
0201020253485323010100000001010102020101020201000202000102010202010200010000010102010100020201010200020202484853010200010200010100021653020102000102020101000100020000000201010102020000020102020102020100020100
532348534823890001534853020001000002482348010000000102000102010153230001010002000102532353233102489053485323482353235353532353234823535353234848482348485323485353532323
5555555555R55555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555555D555555555555555555555555555555555555555
