TARTAN
February 14, 1978 Volume 78, Number 19 Camegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
CMU, Pitt programs help foreign students
CMU's Translation and English Language Center is open to all foreign persons, whether or not they
by Linda Aldridge
When a foreign student applies for ad­
mission to a university in the United 
States, what are the university’s obligations 
to that student? As is obvious from the 
types of programs they run, Camegie-Mel­
lon and the University of Pittsburgh have 
different answers to that question.
Pitt’s Office of International Student 
Services (OISS) is located on the eleventh 
floor of Bruce Hall on the Oakland cam­
pus. From there, Mr. Ralph Morrison, 
director of the center, and many other men 
and women carry out the functions neces­
sary to all phases of Pitt’s rigorous pro­
gram . The program begins with a prospec­
tive student’s first letter of inquiry. The 
OISS receives approximately 100 such 
letters each day, and responds by mailing 
each sender a pamphlet, which contains 
information about academic programs and 
degrees, admission policies, expenses, 
health and insurance services, travel and ?r 
rival, employment, assistance with the En 
lish language, and advisory assistance. If 
the student chooses to apply for admission, 
the OISS handles the application, eval­
uating the student’s credentials, and 
making suggestions as to whether ad­
mission should be granted. The actual ad­
mission decision is then made by the de­
partment to which the student is applying. 
If admission is granted, the OISS sends the 
student all forms necessary to obtain a visa 
to the United States.
Two weeks before the start of the term, 
the first students arrive. During these 
weeks, the OISS runs part two of its pro­
gram—immigration and advising. Students 
are advised on matters from U.S. law to 
how to find adequate housing, from aca­
demic programs to how to set up a bank 
account. After classes start, part three of 
the program begins and continues until the 
student leaves or graduates. It consists of 
the ongoing availability of OISS personnel 
to answer questions, solve problems, and
attend CMU.
counsel the foreign student.
The OISS provides these services contin­
uously for approximately 1000 students, 
80% of which are at the graduate level. 
Every foreign student who attends the 
University of Pittsburgh participates. And, 
on the whole, they seem satisfied. On a 
recent OISS survey, 900 foreign students 
were asked to rate the quality of OISS 
services. One hundred fifty-eight students 
responded, and of them, less than 3% rated 
the services “poor”, with close to 70% 
rating the services either good or excellent. 
(When asked why so few of the 900 con­
tacted students answered the survev. Mr. 
Morrison offered the following: most 
students who did respond were either in 
their first or second years at Pitt. There­
fore, the data suggest that students of 
loneer standing are tired of Questionnaires.)
Camegie-Mellon’s services are less 
comprehensive in nature. When a foreign 
student applies for admission, his/her ap­
plication is processed tftrough the standard 
admissions channels, with each department 
(again, most foreign students are graduate 
students) holding final power over the ad­
mission decision. If a student is accepted, 
a foreign student advisor assists the student, 
in obtaining a U.S. visa, but the advisor’s 
functions are limited to these formal pro­
cedures.
Once the student arrives, there is no 
special orientation program, no specific int­
ernational students office. Some of the 
services such an office would provide are 
available at the Translation and English 
Language Center in Baker Hall, but of the 
approximately 420 foreign students on 
campus, very few make use of these ser­
vices.
Actually, the Translation and English 
Language Center, directed by Dr. C. Green­
field and Mr. Doug Coutts, is not primarily 
concerned with foreign students enrolled 
in the University. It does offer a College
Preparation Program, which seeks to offer 
cultural services as well as academic ones, 
but the program is relatively small at 
present, and is open to all foreign persons, 
whether or not they intend to attend CMU. 
Some members of the Center are available 
to counsel students, but, again, this is not 
their primary function. The Center’s main 
goals are to provide training in technical 
translation, to offer translation services to 
the community at large, and to establish a 
computerized multilingual terminological 
data base. At present, approximately 
60 students are involved in the Center’s 
various programs.
AIESECattends
Rockwell
meeting
t by Ellen J. Silverman
The CMU chapter of AIESEC, the In­
ternational Association of Students in Ec­
onomics and Business Management, at­
tended the annual stockholder’s meeting 
of Rockwell International Corporation on 
February 9th. The event was held at 
10:00 AM in the Hilton Hotel here in 
downtown Pittsburgh. The purpose of the 
trip was to give students involved with 
AIESEC the opportunity to see the func­
tions of an organization.
The meeting started with an introduc­
tion of the vice presidents and Chairman 
of the Board, W. F. Rockwell, Jr. Nomin­
ations for the Board of Directors were then 
conducted. The stock holder is entitled to 
one vote for each share of stock that he 
owns. Of the 36 million Rockwell shares, 
27 million shares of stock were already 
voted upon by proxy statement. Thus the 
results of the election were not that much 
of a surprise to the management of Rock­
well. ;ont‘d on pg. 2
inside
news...
Roussos on Student Senate (pg. 3)
Food stamps in college (pg. 4)
Good news for work-study students(pg. 5)
entertainment...
Paul Taylor Dance Co. returns (pg. 23) 
PPT’s Medal of Honor Rag (pg. 21)
sports...
Dapper Dan honors Tartans (pg. 27) 
Baseball club begun (pg. 31)
Home streak broken (pg. 32)
folio...
Love and CMU (pg. 13)
Loveline,
CMU...
page 72Goodman Outshines Rankin in AB Concert
See story in Entertainment section on page 21.

---------------------------------------------------

page 2—TARTAN—February 14,1978
Spectroscopy Society of Pittsburgh 
February 15, 1978
DR. PETER M. RENTZEPIS
Bell Laboratories 
Industrial Research Magazine 1977 Scientist of the Year
PICOSECOND SPECTROSCOPY IN CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL SYSTEMS
8:30 PM Duquesne University 
Mellon Science Building, Maurice Falk Lecture Hall
MEETING OPEN TO ALL INTERESTED
MSECcant'd from pg. 1
The two most prominent issues that 
were brought up at the meeting were the 
cancellation of the B—1 project and the 
nuclear weapons production at the Rocky 
Flats near Denver, Colorado.
The campaign to cancel the B—1 bomb­
er defense weapons was a political draw­
back for the Rockwell Corporation. The 
employees who were working for the 
project were mislead about their benefits. 
They were probably the most talented 
team of scientists in the country. After 
the project was cancelled, the Rockwell 
Corporation helped by trying to find them 
employment.
Demonstrators were outside the Hil­
ton Hotel before the meeting started. 
They were protesting the existence of the 
Rocky Flats as a nuclear weapons facility. 
The reason for closing the flat is that 
nuclear weapons production involves plu­
tonium, a highly toxic radioactive sub­
stance. As a result, accidents and dis­
coveries of unsafe conditions have occurred 
regularly at Rocky Flats. 171 employees 
have been contaminated and 56 res­
idents who live near the Flats have died of 
cancer. In addition, since the facility o- 
pened in 1953, over 200 fires have occur­
red. More nuclear weapons are not needed 
in the United States; we already have 
approximately thirty thousand nuclear 
warheads as it is. A representative from 
the Colorado plant approached Mr. Rock­
well with a sample of the soil supposedly 
containing the radioactive particles. The 
demonstrator asked Mr. Rockwell to 
send it to laboratories for testing.
Ballot results were then announced 
and annual reports from the Social Res­
ponsibility Committee and Audit Commit­
tee were given. Here it was learned that 
the Rockwell Corporation contributed over
3 million dollars in grants to other organ­
izations. According to their auditors of 
Haskins & Sells, 1977 was an excellent 
year for the corporation. They had sales 
over 5.9 billion dollars with capital ex­
penditures of 196 million dollars.
The major reason for the corporation’s 
success is that Rockwell satisfies the needs 
of not only consumers but of the indus­
trial market. The 69-year-old corporation 
has developed 84 new consumer products 
and over 34 industrial products this year. 
Rockwell International is now NASA’s 
number one industrial contractor. Their 
products, which serve 30 industrial mar­
kets, are highest in demand in the aero­
space division, Examples of their achieve- 
vements include the design of the rocket 
for Apollo 11 and the communication that 
was needed when man was on the moon 
for the first time. Mr. Rockwell, who has 
been in business for over 40 years, be­
lieves that the success of a business can all 
be attributed to the people who work for 
you. “It takes excellent management 
talent to do well”, the Chairman claimed. 
And this talent certainly is a major reason 
for the corporation’s success today.
A film was presented showing Rock­
well’s historical development. The film 
was excellent. It was shown in a very 
exciting manner: Rockwell products were 
flashed simultaneously on three movie 
screens to the popular musical theme of 
“Rocky.”
A question and answer period conclu­
ded the event. One inquiry was made as 
to whether Rockwell equipment is going to 
help the war in Rhodesia. The response 
was negative. It was learned that the total 
expense account of Rockwell executives 
is over $500,000. Rockwell owns 21 pri­
vate planes and over 8 apartments for their 
executives throughout major cities in the 
United States. In addition, it was learned 
that if the metric system is introduced 
into the market, the costs will be insig­
nificant.
The SDC Space
by Stephanie Waite
SDC’s Spring Carnival booth, which 
won first place last year among non-frats, 
will be a reality this year, contrary to pop­
ular belief. Last year’s booth chairman, 
Eric Huhn, had earlier expressed concern 
about the lack of interest in booth among 
SDC reps. A motion was made at last 
week’s meeting to eliminate booth alto­
gether, and put booth money into mis­
cellaneous funds. The motion failed, 
however, and a group of people headed by 
Abby Selman, Debby Fram, and Jef Pos- 
kanzer will attempt to make an SDC booth 
that will be as good or better as last year’s,
Another topic discussed at the last 
meeting (February 5) was SDC fund­
ing. Treasurer Frank Worbs had just met 
with Senate Finance committee. He asked 
them for $5500 dollars, but got only 
$1000. Nice try anyway, Frank. In an­
other attempt to enlarge SDC’s budget, 
Frank is trying to keep the $5 dorm fee 
from being refunded when a person leaves 
school.
President Sam Grego announced that 
next semester, housing will be one hun­
dred beds short. Grego also announced 
that Libyan students will be moving into 
Boss and McGill. Housing would like 
people in those dorms to volunteer to live 
with the Libyans. Anyone interested 
should contact Corey Chase.
It was also brought up at the last meet­
ing that several objects in the dorms seem 
to be coming apart. Complaints included: 
the darkroom in Donner needs repair, a 
key is needed for the Schlag typing room, 
the ice machine in Schlag is broken, there 
aren’t enough dryers, the Woodlawn dryers 
don’t work, and the TV in D-Tower has 
had its knobs removed.
SDC meetings are held every Sunday at 
6:30 in Room 100, Skibo. All members 
of the campus community are invited to 
attend.
Who are you, telling us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things.
On the other hand, it takes an un­
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper.
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal­
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al­
ternatives. the skill and courage to con­
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op­
portunities with us.. and we'll prove it.
Contact your 
placement office 
for information.
SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
AIESEC, the International Association of Students 
students a look at the real world.
Eooiicmics and Business Management, offers
President of AIESEC, Glen Raiger, was 
“particularly impressed by the fact that 
Rockwell International is truly the‘General 
Motors of Space’ and is one of the leading 
21st century companies of its kind.” 
The Rockwell Corporation’s stockholder’s 
meeting, like other events planned by 
AIESEC-CMU, gives the student the
opportunity to see the actual workings of 
various corporations. One does not have 
to be an economics or business major to 
obtain membership in AIESEC. Anyone 
interested in becoming involved with 
AIESEC is welcome to attend the weekly 
meeting Wednesday at 4:30 in Skibo Room 
12.

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1978—TARTAN—page 3
Senate Murmurs
by Linda Deak
Senate is looking forward to tonight’s 
meeting with guest speaker, President 
Richard Cyert. After issuing a brief State 
of the University Address, Cyert will 
tackle issues raised by senators and visitors. 
Senate is particularly interested in such 
topics as: the AMS question; the foreign 
speaking faculty problem; funding of ath­
letic clubs; the expected housing shortage; 
and the inefficiencies of Physical Plant.
Petitions are due for the March elections 
by February 24. Petitions will only be ac­
cepted from those in the colleges of CFA, 
CIT, and H&SS. Also, any full-time stu­
dent is eligible to run for Chairperson of 
Senate, a position being vacated by David 
Roussos.
Following inflationary trends, the Activ­
ities Fee may again be raised. Senate will 
make a decision after the March elections, 
as referenda will be placed on the ballot to 
gain student input on the issue of raising 
the Activities Feea and also funding Ath­
letic Clubs.
Senators were reluctant to insert $900 
into Spring Carnival’s Budget for tent ren­
tal fees, and as a result, there may be no 
tent. In past years, Student Dorm Council 
¦ had split the fee with another organiza­
tion, and this year offered to cover a large 
part of the cost, as they frequently use the 
tent. Tent-goers needn’t fear, for the issue 
will necessarily resurface.
A new club, Society of American Mil­
itary Engineers, was recognized as non­
supported. The group is the Pittsburgh 
Student Post, and their activities include 
lectures which are open to the campus.
Senate welcomes Robin Niesenbaum, a 
CFA senator who presented her petition at 
the previous meeting.
Tom Engelmann, MIS senator, proposed
that another ex-officio seat be added to 
Senate, that being the President of Mudge 
Council. Engelmann felt that grads were 
not being properly represented, and he 
felt that a grad elected by Mudge residents 
should automatically become a member of 
Senate. His motion was referred to Rules 
Committee.
Dan Cordes of Finance is working on 
club budgets, which will be presented to 
Senate at the end of February and the beg­
inning of March. If your club wants cash, 
be there to support its budget. Senate is 
meeting tonight, 7:00 pm., in the Wherrett 
Room.
Roussos to Leave Senate Chair
by Lennie Matjasko
David Roussos will be finished with his 
term as Chairperson of the Student Senate 
on March 14. Senate Officer elections will 
be held on that date, and Roussos will re­
main with Senate as a Senator from the 
College of H&SS.
Roussos stated that he is satisified with 
the job he did as Chairperson. “I don’t 
think I did an outstanding job, but I 
don’t think anyone could have in the 
same situation.” When asked what he 
thinks it takes to be a good Chairperson, 
he replied, “It takes a good Senate.”
Roussos cited some things he perceives 
to be hindrances to the effective function­
ing of Senate. “A lot of people in Senate 
just don’t take the time to consider the var­
iables in making decisions.” He explained, 
“There are a lot of new senators this ses­
sion. A large percentage are freshmen
TAKE YOUR 
GRIPES 
TO THE TOP
when
STUDENT SENATE
hosts
PRESIDENT CYERT
TUESDAY FEBRUARY 14 
7=00 pm WHERRETT
ROOM
David Roussos, Student Senate Chairperson, cites lack of communication 
student government.
one problem of CMU
senators — so, sure, there are problems/’ 
At the same time, he is optimistic. “There 
are a lot of freshmen — rookies— invol­
ved in Senate,but if people stay with it, 
it should be a really productive Senate in 
a few years.”
But he emphasized that most often the 
individuals are not at fault. “The lack of 
productivity in Senate is due to the over­
all lack of organization of student govern­
ments on campus and the lack of organi­
zation within each student government’s 
structure. There needs to be a major 
change—a unification of the different 
groups. There’s no communication. We 
don’t know what we all want.” Roussos 
went on to say that, at CMU, “there is no 
central, real student government. The 
Administration doesn’t exploit us, but they 
can go to any of the student leaders, and
just find the one who agrees.”
Roussos explained that Senate is “trying 
to get more communication going with 
Cyert.” Within the last twelve months, 
Cyert will have attended two Senate meet­
ings, and Roussos sees this as an accom­
plishment.
When asked if he thinks there will , in 
fact, be a major change in CMU’s student 
government, Roussos replied, “Anything 
can be done. If you want something, you 
can get it.” But, as a senior, Roussos real­
izes that such a major change would take 
more time than he has to give. “I’m leaving 
in May. I have to get things done in two 
months.” And that’s too bad because 
David Roussos is an actively involved 
student, and obviously enjoys it. With a 
big smile, he remarked, “It’s nice to be 
king.”
GIRLS .... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION? Applicants an now being considered for the 1971 c*mp season Mint be able to teach one of the following: Ms I Crafts, Arts I Crafts Director, Dancinf, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist and singing, Tenis, Trampoline, Gymnastics, Photograph», Cheerteading, Scouting and Natire Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor. Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor. Write Camp Office, 13S Woodland Dm, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15221.
J
Vacations in the Sun” package 
vacations to Florida & bahamas
Including Airfare & Hotel 
FROM
$303°°
effective Dec 15 to MAR 15,1978
7 NIGHT PACKAGES 
FROM
$34100
effective MAR 15 to APR 4,1978
FOR DETAILS CALL 621 -0799
^ BAGEL AND LOX ?BRUNCH
SUNDAY FEBRUARY 19 
11:30 A.M.
SKIBO — ROOM 11
COST: $1.25 COME MEET NEW PEOPLE
B'nai B rith Hillel 315 S. Bell.field Ave. 621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

page 4—TARTAN—February 14,1978
Food Stamps:
Are You Eligible?
by C. E. Stewart
Pennsylvania college students who have 
a limited income are eligible to receive 
food stamp assistance from the state. Mrs. 
Pociask of the Pennsylvania Department 
of Public Assistance and Welfare stated 
that in order to receive such assistance a 
college student is required to be indepen­
dent, or head of household, and have a 
monthly income under $262. The student 
must also have less than $1500 in personal 
assets.
Financial aid, such as grants from Pen­
nsylvania Education Assistance Agency and 
Basic Educational Opportunity Grants are 
considered to be part of the student’s 
income. When the student’s income is 
computed, however, the amount of the 
grant is prorated over the entire semester. 
Tuition costs are also prorated over the 
semester and then deducted from the stu­
dent’s total monthly income.
Pociask also said that although the 
basic requirements and rules for college 
students are different from the normal 
requirements, there are unfortunately no 
specific pamphlets or booklets available 
about food stamp assistance for college 
students. Further questions about eligi­
bility should then be directed to the Pen­
nsylvania Department of Public Assistance 
and Welfare, Food Stamps Office.
. a««
j c ro :x} o
* * Ç
s * r (t*
o
¦* Ï ?5« 1** « *»* .
- '
The rules and requirements for obtaining food stamps are different for college students.
AUDITIONS TO BE HELD. Performances of Brahms Requiem, Beethoven 
Ninth Symphony and the music of Rodgers & Hommerstein will be presented 
by the MENDELSSOHN CHOIR OF PITTSBURGH this spring. The Choir 
will hold auditions for new members on Sunday evening, February 12, 1978. 
Those interested should call 561-3353 for further information and an ap­
pointment.
CMU TECHNICAL CAREERS CONFERENCE
CHECK IN 9:30 - 10:30SATURDAY
WORKSHOPS WILL INCLUDEMARCH 4. 1978
• Corporate RepresentativesSKIBO STUDENT UNION
• Graduate School vs. Jobs
• Mock Interview & Resume Writing
• Professional Couples
Free & Open to Entire Campus 
Community
• Alumni Discussion
ALSO CORPORATE EXHIBITS
Registration Deadline Wed. Feb. 22nd
1
REGISTRATION FORM
NAME1ADDRESS 
PHONE #
MAJ. - YR.
Sponsored by 
CMU Chapter Society of Women Engineers
1
MAIL TO: KATIE JOHNSON 
110 SCAIFE HALL 
(Campus Moil)
1
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,
Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1978-TARTAN-page 5
Work-study 
students get 
rate increase
by Andrew Ragan
Have the hard times here been getting 
you down? Have you been searching for a 
reason to smile in the midst of all this 
CMU sadness?
Well, if you happen to be a student cur­
rently employed under the Carnegie-Mellon 
University Work-Study Program, you may 
be in for a surprise. Just for a moment, 
try to forget about the Skibo food, the 
homework and tests, the lack of hot water 
in your rooms, the letter that’s asking you 
to move out or pay up, and the noisy rad­
iators. Why?
Because you may be getting a raise! 
According to the Financial Aid Office and 
our Student Employment Coordinator, 
Mrs. Libby Fonseca, “Carnegie-Mellon Uni­
versity has been successful in securing a 
supplemental allocation of federal funds to 
be utilized in the College Work Study Pro­
gram.” A direct result of this has been a 
“very strong” recommendation from the 
Financial Aid Department (endorsed by 
President Cyert) to all the Deans, depart­
ment heads, and other supervisors of 
Work-Study employees to increase the 
minimum wage for CMU students to the 
federally standard $2.65/hour.
However, don’t let those extra dollar 
signs start spinning in your head just yet. 
According to Mrs. Fonseca, if a department 
feels that its budget is not large enough to 
support such an increase, it does not have 
to comply with the wage hike. In fact, 
post-secondary schools are permitted by 
law to pay work-study students a submin­
imum rate of 85% of the minimum wage. 
However, Mrs. Fonseca also pointed out 
that the new standard of $2.65 would only 
reflect a $.03/hourly increase per student 
from a department’s budget (for students 
currently receiving $2.50/hour), because 
the federal government through the Finan­
cial Aid Office would absorb 80% of the 
rate increase. In addition, the new rates 
will not change current work study awards, 
but will likely allow students to cut down 
on hours. Well, at least that leaves hope 
for good news!
Work-study jobs range all over and even 
off-campus. Employees can be found at 
the Gym, the Information desks, the lib­
raries, post office, security, in Warner Hall, 
working for food-service and in every 
department. Morewood Children’s Center 
currently offers off-campus jobs, 
and jobs with the Air Force, Earnest T. 
Williams Center and others (off campus) 
are being arranged.
Mrs. Fonseca has plans for developing a 
much broader range of off-campus work- 
study jobs which she hopes will aid stu­
dents with summer and/or career-oriented 
employment.
Students eligible for work-study jobs 
are those who have some financial need. 
To get a job, one must go through the nor-
Rankin Goodman page 12
mal Financial Aid channels, where it is 
wise to point out your interest in working 
as a student. Students are notified through 
their financial aid packages about how 
much College Work Study they are eligible 
to earn. Students can work no more than 
20 hours per week while classes are in 
session, and no more than 40 hours per 
week when they are not. Une can then ad­
just his/her hours to the amount awarded. 
Once the amount awarded in the package is 
reached, the student is not expected to 
continue working (in lieu of other possible 
changes in his financial aid package). Stu­
dents currently on National Direct 
Student Loans may have portions of them 
changed to work-study. At the start of 
each semester, the financial aid office 
hands out to prospective work-study em­
ployees a list of jobs available across cam­
pus, hopefully enabling students to pursue 
employment in areas of interest.
Further questions can be answered by 
the people in the Financial Aid Office, and, 
more specifically, by Mrs. Fonseca, ou 
Student Employment Coordinator.
This work-study student's time is worth more now.
ENGINEERS,
SCIENTISTS,
OTHER TECHNICAL 
PROFESSIONALS
CAMPUS
INTERVIEWS
SOON
Visit Placement 
Office NOW!
Synergism
WHAT DOES IT MEAN TO YOU?
On any given day you will find some BDM people assisting 
top level defense planners and policymakers, while others 
are getting dusty directing and executing field tests. Still 
others will be looking at tomorrow’s energy alternatives . . . 
designing sophisticated electronic instrumentation . . . and 
confronting national needs in areas as diverse as logistics, 
counterterrorism, offshore development, and command and 
control. Among many others.
The whole range of BDM capabilities that underlie and sup­
port these activities is greater than the simple 
sum of their parts. What does this synergism 
mean to you? From a career standpoint, it 
means that you will have an unparalleled 
opportunity to see how national interests 
really fit together, how your own contri­
butions impact on the “system,“ and 
how the whole process makes you more 
than the sum of your capabilities.
We are looking for highly motivated
ENGINEERS, APPLIED PHYSICISTS, APPLIED MATHEMA­
TICIANS, and COMPUTER SCIENTISTS (Scientific Applica­
tions) to help us establish BDM as the foremost professional 
services company in the U.S. by 1985.
Help us meet this goal, and we’ll help you meet your career 
goals ... no matter whether they lie in management or ad­
vanced individual achievement. In the process, you will find 
as much excitement and challenge as you can handla. And 
as much opportunity.
You will work alongside colleagues you re­
spect, in an atmosphere that is the quintes­
sence of professionalism. The pay is good, 
and so are the benefits, but the career sat­
isfaction and growth potential are best of 
all. Let s discuss you and BDM. Write: 
College Relations Coordinator. The 
BDM Corporation. 7915 Jones Branch 
Drive. McLean. VA 22101. An equal 
opportunity employer m/f(we mean it).
Brazelton

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Let's do it right this timeLibyans
Yesterday’s arrival of fifteen Libyan students marks 
CMU's latest venture in international education. Undaunted 
by the Rhodesian debacle, barely acknowledging the Saudi 
Arabian problem and completely mum on the Algerian 
difficulties last year, CMU forges on, luring one foreign 
student after another into studying in our hallowed halls.
And once they are lured, once they arrive, they are for­
gotten. Shucked into dorm rooms with hostile American 
students and given little help or advice on how to cope with 
American university life, the foreign students usually move 
off campus and out of the way as soon as they can.
It is a deplorable situation. So gung-ho on professional­
ism, so intent on creating and maintaining an international 
profile, CMU misses the boat when it really counts. What 
could be a real learning experience for all students usually 
turns into an embarrassing fiasco for the administration. 
In the end, there is little or no communication or cultural 
exchange among foreign students and American students.
If CMU continues to recruit foreigners, and it certainly 
appears that it will, its services must be expanded to help 
them adapt to American life. The services that CMU does 
offer are too little and have come too late. Hosts, students 
who are willing to be big brothers to the Libyans, have been 
recruited from the campus community; but there was no 
help or interest for the Rhodesians or the Saudis. The Lib­
yans will have an RA whose only concern will be them, but 
there are no such RAs for the other foreign students who 
have remained on campus. Doug Koutts was hired this 
year to be advisor to foreigners studying in the Translation 
Center, but the rest of the foreigners, over 400 and mostly 
grad students, have no special advisor,
Well, it's a start-but only a start.
A better solution would be the creation of an inter­
national house, similar to the one that Pitt has, in which 
students of different nationalities live together out of their 
own choice. It seems strange that CMU, with a much 
greater percentage of foreign students, has no such accomo­
dation.
Nobody is happy the way things are now. Foreign stu­
dents find themselves ignored or antagonized by resent­
ful American students. American students feel taken ad­
vantage of when unasked-for foreigners are assigned to their 
overcrowded dorm rooms.
CMU is forcing its students to play the role of the Ugly 
American. The situation is so easily remedied.
After socks, what?
Bless the Student Senate Finance Committee. Though 
many students believe they should not be funding the 
Baseball Club, they are sticking to their original conviction 
and funding them. And not just funding them, but funding 
them: $200 for eight jackets, $300 for carrying bags, and 
$70 for six dozen pairs of socks. Or sanitary hose—whatever 
they call them nowadays. Curious that WRCT practically 
had to beg to be able to broadcast Tartan football games, 
and that SDC might not be able to get money for a tent 
for Spring Carnival this year while the Baseball Club easily 
gets $ 70 for some socks.
It may just be because, while football is just a game, 
baseball is the great American sport. Or it may be because 
of a deeper reason.
It may be because there are too many members of 
Senate and the Finance Committee who have conflicting 
interests, who can’t distinguish between what they per­
sonally desire and what their true responsibilities are; 
who are using their influential positions for their own 
personal gain.
But it’s hard to find out the real reason. People don’t 
want to talk about it.
Sherry Siegel 
Editor-in-chief
Letters
SDC Space Comment 
Editor:
I would like to comment on 
the remarks of SDC representa­
tives published in last week’s 
TARTAN. First, SDC meetings 
are not satirical in nature. Every 
week, SDC deals with day-to-day 
matters, such as televisions, wash­
ing machines, dances, parties, 
movies, etc., quite seriously and 
effectively. We also discuss dorm 
students’ opinions and ways in 
which to attempt to get these o- 
pinions across to the mostly-deaf 
administration. And our so-called 
“apathy” problem is not a prob­
lem when compared to the apathy 
throughout the campus. Our or­
ganization is a large one and we 
usually get forty or so members to 
attend every week. I doubt if any 
other student organization can 
better us in weekly attendance.
The reporter in “The SDC 
Space” said that SDC “as a stu­
dent-administration liaison, is a 
generally inefficient organization;
partly due to the apathy of the 
students involved in it...” I must 
again disagree. If SDC is ineffec­
tive in dealing with the adminis­
tration, it is not the students’ 
fault. The fault lies entirely with 
the administration. SDC strives 
hard to get student ideas across, 
but the administration will not 
listen. The students will then, of 
course, feel defeated and, sooner 
or later, grow apathetic. Only a 
few people will continue to bash 
their heads against a brick wall. 
Thus, the administration will de­
light in the “apathetic” student 
body and impose even more un­
fair policies on the surrendered 
students. This is not only true of 
SDC, but of all student organiza­
tions.
In the future, student organi­
zations must not practice unsub­
stantiated self-ridicule; when this 
is done, we only play into the 
hands of the administration. In­
stead, we must now act to make 
Warner Hall listen to us.
Samuel R. Grego
Architecture Accreditation 
Editor:
Two years ago, the Department 
of Architecture was reviewed by 
the National Architectural Ac­
creditation Board. After evalua­
tion, our department was in­
formed that certain inadequacies 
existed. Recommendations were 
made by the NAAB to improve 
the quality of education.
The students of Level One feel 
that we have not been informed 
about the progress of these im­
provements. We have therefore 
gotten together as a group to 
reach out to the department and 
open new channels of communica­
tion.
As students, we are interested 
in our program and want to have 
a say in policy which affects us. 
It is our hope that the department 
will help us in our quest for 
information.
The Level One Architecture 
Students
TARTAN
Volume 78February 14, 1978Number 19
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Sherry Siegel 
Tim Shields 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Lennie Matjasko 
Casey Childs 
K.A. Yaksich 
Mike Jochmann 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Photography Staff: Skip Bra?elton, Tad Dickenson, Pet* Dickey, Georqe Lecomte. Mark Segal
Production Assistants: Ken Vesu>
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578— 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

View From The Campus
Stephen Azevedo
For some time now I have 
taken note of the growing debate 
concerning the problems with our 
CMU Housing Office. As a first 
year student here and resident of 
so-called prime housing, I have 
been appalled with not only the 
gross injustices done to students, 
but also the way in which Housing 
chooses to handle the problems»
In my experience, Housing 
Offices have been places which 
help students find accomodations, 
aid them with any rental or dorm­
itory hassles, and generally have 
concern for students’ problems. 
At this university, however, Hous­
ing seems to take the attitude that 
students are a necessary evil to 
be dealt with and a passive pop­
ulation to take advantage of. This 
is not my idea of service.
Students: Take a look at your 
housing contract and all 'Other 
correspondence you have received 
from the Housing Office. Besides 
the fact that most, if not all, mail 
from that office is impersonal, un« 
friendly, and downright rude, the 
stipulations placed upon the oc­
cupants of University-owned 
housing is absurd. For example,
paragraphs 12 and 16 of the 
Housing License Agreement for­
bid me to cook in my room, but 
as a resident of Mudge House, I 
am not given an alternative place 
to cook and thus I am forced into 
obtaining a food contract.
Similarly, although not in the 
contract, with the onset of the 
Centrex system to the campus 
community pay phones have been 
removed from dormitory floors, 
thereby constraining this year’s 
students to pay the extra $22 or 
have no phone service at all.
By far the most ridiculous 
rule placed on us is that of Para­
graph 8, regarding a person’s al­
ternatives when vacancies occur in 
their accomodation. Whether 
Housing is responsible or not for 
failing to fill the vacancy, the stu­
dent must either pay extra or 
move out.
To top it off, we are told in 
paragraph 17 that any violations 
of the regulations (note that 17 
of the 18 paragraphs are con­
cerned only with regulations on 
the students: what we cannot do) 
may result in “whatever disciplin­
ary and punitive action the Uni­
versity feels is reasonable and war­
ranted.” For the students living 
on campus (which, I understand, 
is most of the students at CMU), 
we have no choice but to sign 
such a document. I'submit that it 
is more stringent and lacks more 
regard for tenants than most 
leases I have encountered. Yet 
Housing purports to be a Univer­
sity Service to CMU students.
Although Housing has a mon­
opoly on student on-campus 
accomodations, we must not 
allow the university to treat us 
with such a condescending atti­
tude. Only by speaking out 
against their offensive tactics and 
by demanding that students’ 
rights be regarded with more res­
pect will some action be seen on 
this matter. Let us not be passive 
anymore.
Mr. Dillon and Mr. Dalton: 
Certainly your jobs are difficult 
ones and we all sympathize with 
your positions. :But don’t you 
think it would be good policy, 
as businessmen, to show some 
consideration and courtesy to 
those people who it is your busi­
ness to serve, rather than alien­
ating them?
Surely there are students who
abuse the legal document which 
they signed, or act in an immature 
manner. But is that any reason to 
treat all students as “kids” (a 
term often heard used by admin­
istrative personnel) who have no 
choice but to be bound by pre­
posterous legal contracts and 
made to feel that no one is sen­
sitive to our situation?
Undoubtedly the Housing Lic­
ense Agreement has been around 
for years and, surprisingly, Para­
graph 8 has been in it since 1972 
without significant student dis­
approval to remove this state­
ment. But why cannot this con­
tract and all the policies of Hou&= 
ing be altered to reflect more 
directly the needs of CMU stu­
dents? And will students, in an 
adult way, be allowed to provide 
input to such changes so as to im­
prove student-administration un­
derstanding?
Many rumors are circulating 
about present and future Housing 
plans, and most are viewed with 
hostility by the students. In the 
interest of both parties involved, 
a more open and healthy environ­
ment would seem to be beneficial 
to everyone.
President Cyert: The students 
here now are the alumni of the fut­
ure. I am sure you would think 
it unwise to cause any displeasure 
among those students who, right 
now with tuition and in the future 
with alumni donation, keep this 
university in business. Many stu­
dents I know are discontented 
with our housing service and 
either choose not to vocalize it or 
feel that no one will listen.
In light of these problems, may 
I respectfully suggest that an 
ombudsman’s office or equivalent 
neutral liaison service be set up to 
hear student problems and have a 
direct influence in administrative 
policies of the university. As for 
the current problem of housing, I 
would hope that the upper 
echelons of the CMU hierarchy 
perceive that problems are present 
and act in alleviating them.
In closing, this letter is not 
meant to threaten or challenge 
anyone but merely to bring out 
some of my feelings and those of 
my peers. This is in the hope that 
future relations between students 
and administration may be con­
ducted more openly and inform­
atively .
more Letters
Helpful Donner Folks 
Editor:
I’d like to thank the fine peo­
ple who left the warmth of Don­
ner at 4:00 AM Monday night, 
Feb. 6, to push me off the snow­
bank I got stuck on while at­
tempting to park. Your friendly 
assistance succeeded after calls'to 
CMU Security and A.A.A. failed 
to solve my problem.
Happy Valentine’s Day to all 
of you!
Jack Mostow 
Seeing Panama Red 
Editor:
I must take issue with your fea­
ture on “surrendering” Panama 
(TARTAN 2/7/78). First off, I 
was unaware that the proposed 
treaty surrenders Panama. Who 
are we surrendering it to? Not to 
run this point into the ground, I 
will be reasonable and assume that 
you really mean the Panama 
Canal.
Now you’re in for a shock. 
Contrary to what the supporters 
and detractors of the treaty would 
have you believe, the canal is not 
being “surrendered,” “given 
away,” “turned over,” “restored,” 
etc. (choice of verb depending on 
speaker’s place in political spec­
trum) to Panama. The United 
States will retain all rights in the 
Canal Zone until 2000, and has 
the right to intervene militarily af­
ter that date to maintain the 
canal’s “neutrality.” That’s assum­
ing that the canal is returned to 
Panama when the time comes. 
Now, I’m not naming names, but 
we are all aware that the U.S. does 
not exactly bat 1,000 in the 
treaty fulfillment department. 
Does anyone seriously believe that 
the U.S. government would turn 
any amount of control over if a
social revolution occurs during the 
two decades?
For all that American reaction­
aries and his own pseudoleftist 
rhetoric would have you believe, 
Panamanian President Omar Torri- 
jos is no red. Sure, he’s stifled pol­
itical activity, smashed press free­
dom, and done all sorts of other 
things that Jimmy “Human 
Rights” Carter disapproves of 
when he’s not lunching with the 
Shah. Torrijos is just another in a 
long line of Latin American dicta­
tors that the U.S. government and 
corporations like dealing with. On 
the whole, he is little different 
from Somoza of Nicaragua, 
Stroesser of Paraguay, or Videla 
of Argentina. In Torrijos’ case, he 
hopes to appeal to the Panaman­
ian’s national pride for a while 
through the phony “return” of 
the canal. Hopefully, from his 
perspective and that of the U.S. 
government, this will keep the lid 
on the problems of unemploy­
ment, income inequality, 
and exploitation that his country 
faces with most of Latin America.
The Panamanian people want 
the canal. They demonstrated this 
with their blood during the 1960s 
when U.S. Marines attacked Pan­
amanians attempting to raise their 
flag in the Canal Zone. Yet a sig­
nificant part of the electorate- 
over 30 per cent—voted against 
the treaty during the referendum 
recently staged by Torrijos. Why? 
Because they realized that the 
treaty is a cruel trick to delude 
them into thinking that the Pan­
ama Canal will finally be Pana­
manian, when in fact it won’t 
change a thing.
1 believe that the canal right­
fully belongs to the Panamanian 
people, and I say give it to them 
now!
Tom Dynia
Housing Hassles
Editor:
I hope that Gerald Dalton and 
Bill Dillon are not mad at each 
other and refusing to speak to 
each other.
In the February 7, 1978 edi­
tion of the TARTAN, Gerald 
Dalton was quoted, “I am being 
blamed for existing policies” and 
“These policies have existed for 
several years and I am only en­
forcing them.” However, in the 
December 18, 1977 issue of the 
TARTAN, Bill Dillon attributes 
the difficulties encountered with 
roommates to “new director, new 
policies.”
Raymond A.P. Mialki
Neither Rain, Nor Snow... 
Editor:
I’d like to seriously ask about 
how responsible the Donner mail 
clerks are. They do the mail to 
fit their schedules exactly. If the 
job inconveniences them, they 
don’t do the mail until some odd
every student suffers from the 
same thing. I can’t, constantly, 
tell my employer that I’ll be in 
late and still hope to retain my 
job. I work around my job to get 
the other things done.
Certain delays will occur some­
times, which is understandable, 
but everyday? Who are they try­
ing to fool? We, as students, 
should not have to put up with 
their irresponsibility and cutting 
remarks in last week’s letter to 
the editor. I am not going to sym­
pathize with such inconsiderate 
people, who don’t give a damn 
about the feelings of a large part 
of the student body. I leave them 
with this: DO THE JOB RIGHT 
OR LET SOMEONE ELSE DO 
IT.
Name withheld 
by request
.. . and they taste great! 
Editor:
The February 7,1978 TARTAN 
has two letter defending the Food 
Service “hamburger policy.” They 
indicated that the Tartan Grill’s
fact only reused in chili, and were 
not reheated and served the fol­
lowing day in the Kiltie Cafe. The 
people concerned miss the pertin­
ent point, which is not whether 
the hamburger patties were ac­
tually reheated, but rather that 
the hamburgers served in the Kiltie 
Cafe taste as though they had been 
prepared the night before and re­
heated subsequently.
Edwin Seward
Doublespeak Nonwords 
Editor:
“...the article, in a one sen­
tence interpretative paragraph, 
managed not only to use a non­
word (“irregardless”) but also to 
seriously misrepresent what I had 
stated.”
From letter by Dean Kaplan in
the TARTAN (2/7).
Irregardless of the growing ten­
dency for writers to abuse the 
English language, a doublespeak 
word like “nonword” is no word 
at all. A good word for Dean 
Kaplan--“Healer, heal thyself.”
hour. Don t they realize that leftover hamburger patties were in _________ David Paul
Think you're paying too much money 
for too little dorm space?
Can't understand your foreign in­
structor?
Wondering why tuition's going up?
TALK TO PRESIDENT CYERT ABOUT rr.
Tonight, 7 PM, Wherrett Room

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS_________
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are FREE.
general
CMU-EPFL Undergraduate Exchange Pro­
gram with Ecole Polytechnique Federate 
de Lausanne, Switzerland (cf. pages 70 
71 in latest undergraduate catalog) is 
now open for selected freshmen in engi­
neering and applied science. This pro­
gram entails’ selection of participants 
during the freshman year, academic pre­
paration at CMU during the sophomore 
year, study at EPFL during the junior 
year, and completion of degree require­
ments at CMU during the senior year. 
Further details may be obtained at 
orientation sessions scheduled for 
Thursday, February 16 at 4:30 PM in 
Skibo, Room 12, and Monday, Febru­
ary 20 at 7:00 in Science Hall 4325 or 
through Megan McCaffrey, Science Hall 
4321 (ext. 2676).
Episcopal Prayer Services will be held in
Skibo 39 Mondays and Wednesdays at 
noon, and Thursdays at 1:00 PM, during 
spring semester. DURING LENT, the 
Thursday 1:00 PM service will be a 
Eucharist, with Jonathan Appleyard, 
Episcopal chaplain for CMU. Everyone is 
welcome! Call x2794 for information.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Spanish Table starts meeting again; Tues­
days beginning 12:30 in the Kiltie Cafe. 
Bienvenidos todos!
The Student Dorm Council is having a bug*
gy meeting February 21 at 7:00 PM in 
both the Morewood Piano Room and in 
the Donner Lounge. Come by and sign 
up. We want pushers and drivers (small) 
especially, but everyone is welcome. If 
you can't make it, call ext. 4388 and 
talk with John Golec or Frank Worbs. 
Thanks.
Retrieval Processes in Memory for Text
will be the subject of a lecture given by Dr. 
Richard C. Anderson of the Center for the 
Study of Reading at the University of 
Illinois at Urban-Champaign. The lecture 
will be on Thursday, February 16, at 3:30 
PM in Baker Hall 340 A.
Alex Haley's "Roots" will be shown on
campus beginning on Monday, Feb. 
20. If you missed the television event 
of 1977, this is your chance to see all 
12 episodes during your lunch hour. 
Over a 4 week period, the series will be 
presented on Mondays, Wednesdays, 
and Thursdays (with the exception of 
February holiday, Monday, Feb. 27. 
For this week only, showing will be on 
Tuesday, Feb. 28) at 11:30 and 12:30 
in the Wherrett room. Please watch the 
weekly TARTAN ads for detailed syn-» 
opses of each week's showings.
"Roots" is sponsored by Campus Pro­
gram Planning. Free. Bring your lunch 
and a friend.
"Food for Thought; A Dietary Approach
to Freedom from Disease" is the topic of a 
free public lecture to be held Friday even­
ing, February 24 at 7:30 PM at the Utility 
Center of Pittsburgh on Penn Ave. near 
Lang St. in Point Breeze. Jim Winer, author 
of the "Handbook of Basic Nutrition," will 
be the speaker. Sponsored by the Semple 
Street Food Co-op.
Attention all Tutors for the Free Academic
Student Tutoring Program: Please at­
tend one of the following meetings: 
Wednesday, February 15, at 4:30 PM or 
Thursday, February 16, at 7:00 PM. 
The meetings will take place in the Peer 
Help center, in Baker Hall.
The Communication Skills Center, located
in the Academic Advisory Center (Baker 
Hall 161), now offers computer aided 
instruction in writing and grammar. 
Anybody interested in using this system 
to improve their writing should contact 
Anita Brostoff, ext. 2924, or visit the 
Communication Skills Center. No pre­
vious computer experience is necessary.
The Marcel Ophuls lecture has been resche­
duled! It will now be held on Friday, Feb­
ruary 17 at 2:30 PM in Baker Hall 231.
Forbes Street Gallery is opening a new
show today featuring the works of Andrea 
Beizer, Francis Gallo, and Lisa Thaviu. The 
show consists of paintings, drawings, weav- 
ings and sculptures. The Forbes Street 
Gallery is open Wednesday through Sunday, 
from 12 to 4 PM, and again on Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Thursday evenings from 7 
to 9 PM. The Gallery is located at 5200 
Forbes Avenue, on the corner of Forbes 
Avenue and Margaret Morrison Street.
The Chatham College Film Society invites
all CMU students to a showing of the film 
"Mean Streets." The film will be shown 
Friday, February 17, at 7:30 PM in the 
Eddy Theatre on the Chatham College 
Campus. There is an admission charge of 
one dollar.
Wanted: Someone who wants to enrich
their life and obtain credit for work exper 
ience in exchange for 3 to 6 hours per 
week with good patients. Contact: Jenny 
at 362-3500 or Sherry at 422-9334. Ivy 
Nursing Home. Lend your heart today. Be 
a volunteer.
Trip to Southern Germany: Professor Hal
Rennert to take a group of CMU students 
on a tour of Southern German universities 
and university towns. Also included will be 
attendances and visits of theaters, concerts 
and museums. Besides the universities in 
Stuttgart, Heidelberg, Freiburg, Tuebingen 
and Konstanz, an excursion to the Society 
for Nuclear Research in Karlsruhe may be 
included in the itinerary. Duration: May 
19 to June 9, 1978. Eligibility: CMU un­
dergraduate or graduate student; some 
speaking ability in German highly recom­
mended. Cost to student: minimum of 
$600.00; some financial support of the 
German Academic Exchange Service is 
pending.
Interested students should get in touch 
with Professor Rennert in the Dept, of 
Modern Lang, and Lit. or call 578-2893 as 
soon as possible.
The Mid-City Pittsburgh T.A. Seminar will
be held Sunday, February 19, 1978 from 2 
to 4 PM at 350 South Graham Ave., Shady- 
side. For information or directions call 
441-7007 ot 828-2550.
An Alumni Office Open House will be held
February 14 and 15 from 5 to 7 PM. SARC 
representatives will be available to explain 
the job information resources which are 
open to any student. The Alumni Office is 
located on the fifth floor of Warner Hall
Peer Help will hold an open house on
February 15th. It will run from 11 AM to 
1 PM and all are welcome to come meet 
the staff and enjoy the refreshments. So 
stop in between classes at BH 150 and 
get to know us.
Ski Trip to Seven Springs leaving from
Skibo at 2:30 on Friday, Febraury 17. Bus 
and lift $8.00. Equipment $4.00. For fur­
ther information call Nina at 578-4045.
"Magic Theatre Cafe" Coffeehouse, Univ­
ersity of Pittsburgh Student Union (Lower 
Lounge). Traditional American and Irish 
folk-music also Ragtime and Blues. Flicks, 
coffee, exotic teas, cider. Donation $2.00 
includes free cup of tea or coffee. Advance 
tickets on sale at Student Union Ticket 
Office.
A Bagel and Lox Brunch will be sponsored
by the CMU Hiljel Club on Sunday, Feb­
ruary 19, at 11:30 AM in Skibo Room 11. 
All students and faculty are welcome.
Israeli Dancing takes place every Thursday,
8 PM at B'nai B'rith Hillei, 315 South 
Beliefield Street.
Now is the time for all good students to
come to the aid of their University... Ad­
missions plans a Sleeping Bag Campaign for 
the February 20 President's Day holiday. 
(You'll have classes on this commemorative 
day honoring Washington and Lincoln, but 
most high school seniors won't.) Help us 
celebrate by hosting a prospective student. 
Fill out the card you received via campus 
mail or stop by Warner Hall, first floor, to 
volunteer to be a host.
FOUND: A pair of grey-brown eyeglasses
in a black case. On the case is written "Ac­
curate Optical, Salisbury, Maryland, 
Wheaton, Maryland. Found in the Career 
Services and PJacements Office, 19 Warner 
Hall.
clubs
The February meeting of the Tech Flying
club will be held on February 15, at 
7:30, in Room 45, Skibo. This will be 
the corporation annual meeting—all
members are urged to attend. Visitors 
with an interest in aviation will be wel­
come.
Astronomy Club—The CMU Astronomy
Club will meet Sunday, February 19 
at 7:30 PM in Science Hall 7500. Two 
films: "The Universe", and a short film 
on the Space Shuttle will be shown, and 
plans for the radio dish will be discussed. 
Open to the campus community.
Gay Supporters at Pitt welcome all CMU
supporters. Meetings are held every Sunday 
at 6:00 PM. Check the personals in the 
back of the Pitt News for location and 
further information.
"La Table Française" will resume its meet­
ings, every Wednesday about noon in the 
Skibo Cafeteria downstairs, on the side 
of the sports stadium. You can buy your 
lunch there, bring it with you, whatever. 
It is a good place to discuss things most 
informally in French, and it does not 
matter at all if your French is excellent 
or of a beginner's type. Anybody who 
could confection us a French flag would 
be most gratefully thanked. We used to 
have one but somehow it evanesced 
(excuse my English.)
AIESEC - The International Association of
students in Economics and Business Man­
agement will be meeting on Wednesday, 
Feb. 15 at 4:30 pm. in Skibo Room 12. 
Anyone who is interested in AIESEC or is 
considering membership is welcome to 
attend.
scholarships awards prizes
Applications are now available for Delta
Delta Delta Service Projects scholarships. 
The 1978 award of $100 will be made to 
full time, undergraduate women. The re­
cipient of this award is automatically 
eligible for one of the national awards of 
$1000, with no additional applications or 
procedures necessary.
Academic record, contribution to cam­
pus or community life, promise of ser­
vice in the major field, and financial need 
are among the criteria considered.
Applications forms are available in 
Dean Cox's office in Warner Hall, Room 
204. Completed applications must be re­
turned on or before February 17,'1978.
Since 1943, Tri Delta has awarded a 
total of over $952,520 to 4,933 deserving 
students. In 1977, approximately 57% 
of these scholarships were awarded to 
unaffiliated students, 34% to Tri Deltas, 
and 9% to other Danhellenic members.
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County Ohio 
and who had a 2.5 grade point average may 
apply for the Trumbull County Panhellenic 
Association Scholarship for 1978—79. 
Details and application forms are available 
in Dean Cox’s office, Warner Hall 204. 
The deadline for submitting completed 
applications is April 1, 1978.
classified
Typing—Proofreading—Selectric. Symbols,
Italics, Elite, Pica. Work Guaranteed. 
734-1331. No answer. 761-8584.
Shadyside-Two bedroom apartment-Sum-
mer sublet with option to rent in the fall. 
$240 per month including utilities. Close 
to CMU. Call 665-9443.
Home Cooking! Cook your own. Apart­
ment mate needed. Walking distance from 
CMU (Sq. Hill) Own room. All the com­
forts. Rent negotiable. Call evenings at 
521-5370. Ken or Mike.
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential, caring
friend, Lifeline, 341-3322. Free Pregnancy 
testing.
For Sale: 100 standard size tape cassettes
EDT quality, slightly used. $2.50 each. 
Hunt Institute ext. 2434.
FIND YOURSELF. Newly available syn­
thetic word test helps with the hardest job 
of all, finding yourself. Send $1.00 for 
exam plus instructions to Freelance Assoc­
iates, Box 13065, Pittsburgh, PA 15243.
Wanted: Zoom Lens w:th Canon Mount.
Macro feature and high speed preferred. 
Call 687-2641.
Original Wedding Bands, why buy mass
produced rings? Have your own unique 
design created. 243-5458 Diamonds.
Buckle Musical Enterprises. Guitar seminar
with Joe Negri and Kenny Karsh. Wednes­
day, February 15 from 7 to 10 PM. First 
come, first serve basis. Fee is $10 per per­
son. Please mail in money order or cashier':» 
check to guarantee reservation. Call 
281-1567. 955 Liberty Avenue.

---------------------------------------------------

\
ANJP SO I OJAI^T VOO TO GlV£ 
MV* ÔOX» CHÍt-D ,13ARbÄKA,A -POÓITIOAJ
IW fôURESTAB- 
UMMÊNT.
Febr uay 14,978, Vo,V lm8 HAve
/ A ¦REAL Nl^e"
Whenhaforigs
DA«?.
IF YOU'KJZ ¦ LUCKV, ŸOUR. "PARENTS MAŸ HAVE tN- 
ÒUKED VCUK success ÜJHEAJ VoU ouefie BOftKl-• •jza~o

---------------------------------------------------

page 10—TARTAN—February 14, 1978
SARC to hold open house in Warner Hall Valentine's Day
In order to get a good job, you’ve got 
to know, first of all, what your major 
qualifies you to do. Further, you’ve got to 
know the most effective way to look for a 
job, and, let’s face it, how to make con­
tacts.
This week there is a perfect opportunity 
to learn about all of these things. On 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, from 
5 to 7 pm, SARC is holding open house in 
the Alumni Office on the fifth floor of 
Warner Hall. The open house will offer
iP
M 
Hs
K 
N 
M 
M 
M 
M
Hn
LUTHERAN SERVICES IN LENT
WORSHIP
* LUTHERAN UNIVERSITY CENTER-682-6886
4515 Forbes (across from Scaife Gallery) 
Weekly Eucharist ¦ Sundays - 10:30 a.m.
*ST. ANDRES’S LUTHERAN CHURCH-682-3342
Centre and Morewood, Shadyside 
Ash Wednesday 8:00 p.m 
Sunday Liturgy 11:00 a.m.
THE ALTERNATIVE coffee house
Lutheran Universiy Center 
Fridays 8:00 p.m. to midnight 
Live entertainment each week
LUNCH
Lutheran University Center 
Weekdays -11:30 a.m. • 1:15 p.m.
Complete lunch ¦ students 95'8
M
information about what is available from 
the Alumni Office, and representatives 
from most SARC committees will be there 
to help locate information and to answer 
questions about SARC.
SARC is currently planning forums 
which will feature alumni speaking on such 
topics as how to buy a car, a home, and ins­
urance. Other plans include a business 
conference and career forums, all to be 
held in the spring. Also, SARC hopes to 
have a summer job directory. This di­
rectory would list summer job openings by 
major.
Although the Alumni Office is an on­
going service, the SARC open house is a 
special invitation to learn how SARC and 
the Alumni Office can help you. So come 
up. Refreshments will be served«
minds
matter
MITRE is an organization that faces the challenge of minds over 
matter each day.
We know that our unique resource is the human mind. And that 
the minds we seek are those that need to know they will be working with 
other professionals on challenging and significant problems.
As a nonprofit corporation operating in the public interest, our 
systems engineering projects provide answers to problems assigned to 
us by a score of national, state and local governmental agencies.
At MITRE we will demand a lot from you. And we expect you to 
demand a lot from us. Because at MITRE, minds matter.
Entry-level career assignments now exist for graduates to work 
on project areas that include Command and Control Systems, Informa­
tion Processing Systems, Electronic Surveillance and Communications 
Systems.
We want to talk to Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, 
and Mathematics majors.
We want to tell you about the work we’re doing. Work that you 
could be doing too. In Digital Information Systems • Data Handling 
and Reduction • Microprogramming Techniques • Microprocessor 
Applications • Software Development • System Analyses • Tactical 
Control Systems Engineering and Artificial Intelligence Software 
Design and Applications.
And that’s not all. We want you to know about the work we re 
doing in Telecommunications • Voice Communications • Microwave 
and Digital Signal Processing • Radar Design • Digital Data Communi­
cations • Satellite Systems and Terminals • Circuit Message and 
Packet Switching Techniques.
We invite your further interest in MITRE, a place where 
minds matter.
Please make arrangements with your Placement Office to view 
our 12 minute color video tape presentation.
MITRE will be at Carnegie-Mellon University on February 27,1978
Sign up at your Placement Office for an on-campus interview 
with a member of our technical staff. If this isn’t convenient, mail your 
resume to:
The MITRE Corporation 
College Relations 
8878 Middlesex Turnpike 
Bedford, MA 01730
ftiuMITRE
CORPORATION
An equal opportunity employer M/F
has pagan origin
St. Valentine's day is the Christian­
ized form of the classic Lupercalia, which 
were feasts held in Rome during February 
in honor of Pan and Juno. It was custom­
ary to put the names of young women into 
a box from which they were drawn by the 
men as chance directed. The Christian 
clergy, finding it difficult to eliminate 
the pagan practice, gave it at least a reli­
gious aspect by substituting the names 
of particular saints for those of women. 
As the festival of Lupercalia took place 
during February, the 14th of that month, 
St. Valentine's Day, was selected for this 
new feast. The saints whose names were 
drawn were proposed for imitation to the 
persons who received the slips of paper 
whereon they were written. Each member 
of the community preserved his billet 
during the year as an example to imitate 
the virtues and invoke the intercession 
of his holy valentine.
More women 
attend college
According to the January 9, 1978 is­
sue of the Chronicle of Higher Education, 
women account for 93 per cent of this 
year’s enrollment growth at American col­
leges and universities. This year, 49 per 
cent of all American college students are 
women. Ten years ago, 40 per cent were 
Women; 20 years ago, 35 per cent; 30 years 
ago, 29 per cent.
The National Center for Education Sta­
tistics reports that the past year’s total en­
rollment growth, graduate and undergrad­
uate, amounted to 366,541 additional stu­
dents—and 341,043 of them are women.
The U.S. Census Bureau reports a re­
versal of the traditional pattern of college 
enrollment rates among recent high-school 
graduates, with college women now out­
numbering college men in the 18- and 19- 
year old population group.
Overall, the enrollment of women, 
full-time and part-time, at all types of 
colleges and universities, is up 6.5 per cent 
this year, at a time when the enrollment 
of men has increased less than half of 
1 per cent', according to N.CXJS. data.
According to John Bishop, author of 
a study done for the National Institute of 
Education on the economic factors in­
volved in the increase in women’s enroll­
ment in college, roughly 50 per cent of 
the growth can be attributed to the eco­
nomic payoff of higher earnings for women 
with college education. 25 per cent is at­
tributed to a trend of rising family income, 
20 per cent to a decline in the relative 
cost of education, and 5 per cent to 
smaller size of families.
Mr. Bishop said the college enrollment 
of women could continue to grow, even 
without a continuing increase in the eco­
nomic payoff. Offsetting influences, he 
said, include rising family incomes, smaller 
families, and changes in attitudes that 
make higher education and careers outside 
the home more attractive to women. 
“Twenty years from now we may have 
more women college graduates employed 
than men.”

---------------------------------------------------

ANOTHER SKI TRIP! !
To Seven Springs sponsored by the Ski Club 
and the Residence Life Program
On February 17, 197S
Bus leaves Skibo 3:00 PM
Cost: Bus & Lifts $7.50 
Rental $3.50
ON SALE at the SKIBO 
INFORMATION DESK!
DID YOU KNOW
TNAT OA/LV FOUR PERCENT
OF THE NAT/ON'S LABOR 
FORCE WORKS ON FARMS
TOPAY, AS CONTRASTED ^ **WITH SO PERCENT ‘ ~
A CENTURY AGO,..
funded by student senate
AND ALMOST 95PERCENT tN 1776?
/&PVANCES IN FARMING MACHINERY,
SEEPS ANP FERTILIZERS PIUS GREATER 
KNOWLEDGE MAKE FT POSSIBLE FOR FAR FEWER FARM WORKERS TO SUPPLY A MUCH 
GREATER POME ST/C PEMANP ANP PROPUCE BUMPER CROPS TO FEEP THE WORLD'S HUNGRY MILLIONS.
N INTERESTING ILLUSTRATEP BOOKLET 
"THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC SYSTEM, ANP YOUR 
PART IN IT” COVERS MANY FACTS LIKE THESE.
FOR A FREE COPY WRITE:
ECONOMICS, PUEBLO, COLORAPO, 8/0091
Candlelight e Soft Music e Good Food 
And Never Leave Campus 
At Morewood Gardens 
And The Kiltie Cafe
University 
Food Service
Invites You 
To A Special 
Valentine’s Day Dinner

---------------------------------------------------

LOVELINE, CMU...
Marjie —
/ Love You 
/ Love You 
/ Love You 
/ Love You — Jack
Dear George Bowen,
You are really cute. Have a happy party 
day.
Love, Sherry.
To Cindy S. from the Chemistry soph­
omores. Nobody likes an ass kisser.
To Chris: Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Ma Cherie Allegra, Je T’aime. Avec beau- 
coup amour, Robert
Dearest Sue, / cherish every moment we 
are together. Our love will never die —
Dave.
Sherry: Happy 21st. (Last Friday)
Olaf: Keep on truckin ’ baby.
Hector: Congratulations on your babies.
Love always, Anne.
Joe B.: / Just love your lay-ups. Love, J. T.
Kathy — I’m not perplexed any more.
Love, Rob.
Message: Happy Valentine’s Day, CutieH!
Love, Bruce.
Dana — Rub a dub dub. Love from a secret 
admirer.
Mel — / Love You Madly — Half A-B.
Dear Honee: You’re the best basketball 
player, / Love You. Be My Valentine.
Signed, Wha tee.
R / -
You’re a sweetie! Happy Valentine’s Day!
Love, N.G.
KIM + RON = LOVE.
Daz Maz, Baz maz Vazlaztaz. (Yaz waz baz 
sazraz!!) Laz, Cazdaz Baz.
ABC, my love for you Is a never-ending 
adventure, XYZZY.
To Beth, Cathy and Rita: Happy Valen­
tine’s Day. We'd give you all kisses but we 
can’t afford THE COOTIES. Conal, Ed, 
George, Jerry, John, John, Jon, Marty, 
Ron.
5D — Happy Valentine’s Day to “the 
floor. ” With love, Laurie.
Alfred Crafts, Bill Behen, Stevie Pye: Life 
wouldn’t b& the same without Laurie, Jill, 
Karen.
J.R.Gc '78 — You’re dashing and debonair. 
I’ve got “designs” on you.
Love, 
“The Wiz”
Happy Valentine’s Day Snug from' your 
loving family Tiger, Leroy, and Bing.
Lyba,
I Love You more than anything.
Pak.
My Fellow Greeks,
Since Valentine’s Day is a time to look 
back and appreciate those who have been 
kind, / felt it appropriate to tell you all 
how much / care. Although Greeks are 
only a small minority on this campus, you 
have had the greatest and most profound
impact on me-------All of you, regardless of
house or sorority. With warmest wishes, / 
extend my heart...
A Pledge.
It’s snowing inside 
/’m feeling blue 
Um-on it’s a blizzard 
Come play with me Lou!
Dear Mark Pleskow,
You’re Dynamic and we’re ec-static about 
you.
Love, Sherrie and Jane.
“Burt Reynolds of CMU” — you make me 
smile! Happy Valentine’s Day!
Much Love, Your Monkey!
Mike, / love you for all the things you are. 
Happy Valentine’s Day. Jane.
Silver Phantom — Happy Valentine’s Day 
My Love! Remember, no eating LAST 5/6!
Love Always, Ale.
The Family — Happy Valentine’s Day. 
Eah! Glad to be Dad for this family.
Love, Dad.
Preppie,
Come over tonight and bring the sheets or 
just forget the whole thing. Tundra.
Happy Valentine’s Day Mom, Jane, Beaver, 
Mike, Marc, and Mohair. Love Mimi.
Dear Mike:
Hope you are eating properly, especially 
today. We’ll do anything to please you.
Love, Jane and Sherrie.
Happy V.D.: to the monkey in the rubber 
tree plant.
Donny — leers are better lovers! Thanks 
for 375+ days. You know I’m waiting.
Love, Karen Ann.
Dearest Jane Batyko
Long have / adored you from afar forced 
to keep my love fettered within my 
breast
My passion can no longer be restrained 
Prisoner of Love.
Dear Liz-beth,
Future Friends become present realities; 
forever and ever. Love Always, Jeff.
To send my love to Donner Row in 15 
words? Wow! / just did.
Morewood.
At Last, Your Cuddley Eggplant. Jack.
Sue — You’re fantastic — You can really 
make me smile. Mike.
To Shue, You can’t hide love. I’ll betcha.
Much, Dr. Kildare.
Sheri — Why? P.S. — Be my Valentine?
To Jim Costa —
Give your body to us all.
Cindy
Cindy
Cynthia
Cindy
Cynhy
Cindy
&
Cynthy
To Paul Beatty, father of my child: Thanks 
for last night; it was wild.
MOM.
To the sweetest oranges in all the world (& 
they’re all mine): i love you.
MY PILAM BROTHERS - All this, and 
meat loaf too? It’s nicer times 35!
Love,
YAK (O.F.O.H.)
Happy Valentine’s Day to Bionic D.G., 
Goo-Goo, Teeth-brushed — yet and the 
whole gang.
Dear Cindy — My undying devotion for­
ever. We were meant for one another.
Love Always, Revel.
You could be a handsome prince, but I’d 
rather you be a horny toad. Love, M.
Dear Mark,
. ..zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzxxxooozzzzzzzzz...
Love, Jane.
Dear Stevie —
U-R-A-Q-T-Pi
Love, Karen.
/ Lurve you Valerie! From your intimate 
male companion—and you say /’m not ro­
mantic.
8-Primes:
Thanks for being the best Backgammon 
team.
Love,
Queen of the 8-Primes.
Mark — let’s get to know each other bet­
ter —S.
Kathy — More than all the stars in the 
world — Frank.
RJS, I’m simply mad about you! CAF.
Dear ChE Phantom, / love the way you 
haunt me!
Love,
Your Ravishing little gumdrop.
Sisters: “Dear D.G., you are the one for 
me... ” In the bonds.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 14—TARTAN—February 14, 1978
W$F(sR Meets Lieve and <2 M (J
TARTAN FOLIO
FEBRUARY 14, 1978/ VOLUME I 1/ ISSUE 3/ 
LOVE AND CMU
EDITOR: K.A.YAKSICH
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FREDERIC LA POINTE
ART DIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: KEVIN Q. BROWN
VAVA BUITENKANT 
SAUL CARLINER 
LINDA DEAK 
MARSHA FAIRBROTHER 
ALYCE GOTTESMAN 
CARLA JACKSON 
SHEILA MELFE 
JEAN PELLEGRINI 
KAREN JOY RAVETS 
TAMMY STEPHENSON 
DAVID WATTERSON
COVER DESIGN: LISA AMOWITZ
by Kevin Q. Brown
(Chorus): WTCR—The City Reeks.
LL (Loud Larry): Hello everyone. This is WTCR's 
TALK HOUR and I'm your host Loud Larry. 
The topic for tonight's show is 
LOVE AND CMU.
Phone: Ring-a-ding.
LL: Hello. WTCR. You're on the air.
ES (essence of soul): Hey, man. You wanna know 
about love and CMU? Well, I'm gonna give 
you some good advice. Forget about CMU. 
Love is where it's at. L—0—V—E.
LL: Heavy.
Phone: Ring . . .
LL: Hello, man. You're on the air.
GW (guess who): \ would like to amend the state­
ment by that young man who just called in. 
He obviously does not understand what 
CMU is all about. Love is CMU, and CMU is 
a balanced budget. If you really love CMU, 
you'll donate big bucks to CMU's endow­
ment fund. Tithe for CMU! r '
LL: Uh, thank you.. .Hello. You're on the air.
Al (Aphrodite incarnate): Hi. I would just like to 
let you know that I'm ready for love, and 
I'm available at CMU. Call 578-6969. Ask 
for Suzy.
LL: Go for it. . .Hello. You're on the air.
BS: Love and CMU? My love just left me today. . 
. . .(sniff) . . .She said "Al, we're through. 
You're just too boring. Besides, you stink." 
. . .1 just don't know what to do.
LL: Well, you could start by taking a shower. 
But as for the other part, I'm not sure. You 
really ARE boring! . . .Hello. You're on'the 
air.
RU (Random Unit): Yes. I'd like to order a large 
pepperoni and mushroom pizza to go. The 
name is Rand . ..
LL: (interrupting): Excuse me. This is WTCR's 
TALK HOUR. You must have the wrong 
number.
RU: Impossible! How can I have THE wrong 
number? There are LOTS of wrong numbers.
LL: But look at it from my point of view. If you 
had dialed any other number, you wouldn't 
be bothering ME. So, you have THE wrong 
number, (click) . . . Back to Love and CMU. 
Hello. You're on the air.
UFG (underdeveloped freshman girl): Hi. I have a 
poem to express my love of CMU. Here's 
how it goes. I sing it to the tune of Twinkle, 
Twinkle, Little Star:
I l-o-v-e CMU.
That is really true.
I would really be blue,
Without C-M-U.
LL: That's really fine. Now . . .
UFG (interrupting): But there's another verse- 
half a verse—about my math course:
I especially love my TA.
Please give me an A.
LL: Right. . .Hello. You're on the air.
HK: I'm Dr. Heineck Klinker, Professor Emeritus 
und mad scientist. I haff goot news fur little 
Al. You do remember Al? Ya? That boring 
SCfUipker who called a vhile aqc 'I, I haff
goot news fur little Al. I haff just dicovered 
der secret of LOVE! Al, vun dose of my ex­
tract of chicken gizzards und Tartanburger 
sauce and she vill forever be yours.
LL: Thank you, Dr. Klinker. I'm sure he'll be
glad to try that . . . Hello. You're on the air.
S: SCREEE!
LL: Will you please turn your radio down . . . 
(SCREEE) Please. Turn it down! (SCREEE 
EEE!). (click) . . . Hello. You're on the air.
J: Hi, I'm a janitor and I love CMU. I've worked
all my life (and then some) here and it has 
come to mean a lot to me. But, I hate all this 
snow. I have to shovel it, you see. And I 
don't like shoveling snow. (I don't like clean­
ing the men's restroom behind the elevator 
on 4th floor Science Hall either, as you can 
tell if you've ever been there, (heh heh), but 
that's another story). Anyway, what I wanted 
to say is that I love CMU, but especially 
when the weather is nice and I can see lots 
of nice, green grass, not snow because . . .
LL: (interrupting) Thank you. What a wonderful 
sentiment. . . Hello. You're on the air.
Dude: Hey man. I love the grass, too. But I love 
to SMOKE it. Hah, hah, hah. Ho, ho, ho. 
Hee, hee, heeeeeeeeeee....
LL: Hello. You're on the air.
Phone: . . . .not only that. He also stinks . .$?"@* 
voulez vous couchez . .. (mumble) . ..
LL: Some problem with the phone, folks. Please 
bear with us.
Phone: . . . Now let me make this perfectly clear.
LL: (swift kick to the phone) . . . This is WTCR, 
The City Reeks, and I'm Loud Larry, your 
host for the TALK HOUR. You can call me 
at 621-9827, that's 621-WTCR . . . Hello. 
You're on the air.
I: **** HELLO. I'M IMPORTANT. ****
LL: I'm impressed. Who are you?
I: ***THAT'S FOR ME TO KNOW AND***
YOU TO FIND OUT 
LL: But why, and besides . . . Hey, how do you 
do that? All those stars?
I: **** NOW YOU'RE CATCHING ON ***** * * *#**** * * *
* * * *HAHAHA* * * *
* * * ***** * * *
* * * *HAHAHA* * * *
* * * ***** * * *
"¿T(click)T£rLL: This is getting curiouser and curiouser . . . 
Hello. You're on the air.
C; Hello, l-am-a-computer. l-am-dumber-than- 
any-human-and-smarter-than-any-administra- 
tor.
LL: Uh, fine. But what is it that you have to say 
(or ask?) about love and CMU?
C: Nothing, l-just-like-playing-with-my-phone-
lines-and-my-other-peripherals. (click)
LL: Huh? .. . Hello. You're on the air.
C: Hello, l-am-a-computer. l-am-dumber-than-
any-human-and-smarter-than-any-administra- 
tor.
LL: Say, didn't I just talk to you?
C: Yes. But-l-have-many-phone-lines. (click)
LL: (grrrr) . . .Hello. You're on the air.
C: Hello, l-am-a-computer. l-am-.........................

---------------------------------------------------

February 14,1978—TARTAN—page 15
li©ve §©r§ 
Bin 
6© Bave
Sitting in the back of the grill,
Watching fellas come on in there to play,
Saying things to all of the others 
Though my heart has really nothing to say.
Why must I try to be what I'm not?
Why can't I say that I'm gay—and they are not?
Listening to the priest give a sermon 
Trying to grasp what's there between the lines.
All my lovers itching and squirming,
Saying this is just a big waste of time.
Why do we try to be what we're not?
I am gay—I won't say I'm not.
People going down to the Holiday 
Singing hymns that don't have any words. 
Everybody's hugging and kissing 
Boy, it's really just so absurd.
Why are others so afraid 'cuz we've got the hots? 
We are all gay—we're all we've got.
Now, my love, we've reached a decision.
We're together now for good or for bad.
Mom just wants us both to be happy—
Wish I could say the same about Dad.
But we don't have to try anymore to be what 
we're not.
Til death do us part-we're all we've got.
Happy Valentine's Day, Dear. Love, Bill
XXXOOO
by Marshie
(Sung to the tune 
apologies to D.B.)
They pulled in just behind Woodlawn;
He laid her down—he frowns.
"Gee, my life's a funny thing.
Am I still too young?"
He kissed her then and there.
She took his ring, took his babies 
It took him minutes, took her nowhere— 
Heaven knows she'd have taken anything.
All night—she wants the Earle.
It's all right—but she wants the Earle.
Scanning life through the picture window,
She finds the baggy vagabond.
He coughs as he passes her apartment.
Heaven forbid she'll take anything
But the freak and his type—all for nothing.
He misses a step and cuts his hand,
Showing nothing he swoops like a song.
She cries "Where have all C-MU's heroes gone?'
All night—she wants the Earle.
It's all right—but she wants the Earle.
All the way from Warner Hall"
Her dream man begs of the bathroom floor, 
"We live for just these fifty years 
Do we have to die for fifty more?"
All night—she wants the Earle.
It's all right—but she wants the Earle.
Do you remember Dick Cyert?
Do you remember the bills you have to pay 
or even yesterday?
All night—she wants the Earle.
It's all right—but she wants the Earle.
by Karen Ann Yaksich
Ii©ve and bfoe §aiPY Beaste
by Fay Raye
It started as one of those horrible Friday eve­
nings, the kind where you end up doing laundry 
or watching the ATO mixer sign blink. To make 
matters worse, my roommate had gone home for 
the weekend. This isn't saying that we enjoyed 
spending Friday nights together, but only that 
"misery loves company".
Well, to make a long story short, my room­
mate had an honest-to-goodness CMU boyfriend 
who felt it his civil duty to entertain me for the 
evening. We downed a six-pack of Strohs and 
played "killer football" with the lounge couch 
cushions. After an hour, I'd had enough of the 
cushions, so I decreed that I'd retire.
"Going to sleep at 11:30 is a sin," he ex­
claimed. "I'll take you down to my floor and in­
troduce you to a friend of mine who has got the 
hairiest hands in the world." His graphic descrip­
tion intrigued me. "The kid has piles of curly 
blonde scruff on the back of his hand...it looks 
like a rug...feels like a Brillo pad...you can even 
see hair on his knuckles." The last detail excited
Illustration by: Tammy Stephenson
Shouldn't there be 
Something more 
Than this?
Where are the fireworks,
The brass bands,
And the shooting stars?
What about the 
Angel voices,
Carolling dove-flights;
The slow-motion cinematography 
Through endless fields of golden daisy-chains? 
After all, I am in love 
With you....
I think that explains 
That all-enveloping pink glow of 
ethereal light 
And the comfortable feeling of Two, Together. 
A quiet love,
Without cliches,
But spectacular as sunsets;
A subdued glory 
In watercolor tones.
// /////. £
me, for I thought only morons looked for hair on 
their knuckles..
I managed to make my way to the dorm floor 
to view this freak of nature. I rapped on the desig­
nated door, but the beast's roomate stuck out his 
head and said that the beast was asleep»
Exhibiting the brashness and tactlessness sup­
posedly typical to most CMU women, I pushed 
into the room and demanded to see the famed 
paws. The sleeping figure grunted and stuck out 
his bare leg instead. It was an experience of a life­
time-seeing human flesh that hairy. I mean, a 
cubic inch could have contributed enough hair 
folllicles for Yule Brenner's transplant. If I hadn't 
known better, I would have guessed him to be 
part poodle.
I must admit that I'ye heard some strange lines, 
but the one running "would you like to see my 
hairy dorm-mate?" literally wins hands down. 
Nevertheless, on that desolate Friday evening, I 
confess falling for both the line and the hairy 
beast. Such things make life at CMU bearable.

---------------------------------------------------

page 16—TARTAN—February 14,1978
Usve amen® ishe liifeepafee
by Carla Jackson
This is a ridiculous theme for an expository 
writing class, grumbled Catherine to herself as she 
rolled a fresh piece of Corrasable Bond into her 
typewriter. What the heck are we supposed to 
know about love in a place like CMU, anyway? 
This place is hardly a romantic little hideaway— 
it's more like a prison camp. Or a prison campus. 
Oh, get to work, or you'll be here all night.
With a sigh of almost-resignation Catherine 
began tapping at her typewriter. "Love—A Defi­
nition" appeared on the virgin surface ¿f her 
paper and then sat there. Alone. That was Jt. She 
had a title. Now all she needed were 500 words of 
what her professor called "clear, explanatory, 
well-structured and concise argumentation" and 
what she called "a grand load of crap".
"Love is the most intense feeling in a person's 
emotional repertoire." No, that wasn't right; had 
not she read something in her psych book that 
hunger was stronger? No wonder romanticism was 
dying, if not already dead. It really didn't matter; 
it wasn't an awfully good topic sentence anyway. 
She began again.
Eight sentences and three sheets of paper later 
she finally had something that at least wouldn't 
be a painful embarrassment to either herself or 
her QPA. Not much, at least. "Oh, bother," she 
muttered aloud, reaching for the correcting fluid 
and wishing that she could blot out the entire 
paragraph. She waited for the white to dry, then 
backspaced. Damn, it wasn't dry yet, and a large 
carbon-colored spot appeared in the middle of the 
page as she realized that she should have used an 
eraser in the first place. She reached for another 
piece of paper, and got scant satisfaction from 
shredding the original beyond recognition before 
discarding it.
She began to type again. I sure wish I were 
writing this from first-hand experience, she 
thought. She took off her glasses and carefully 
folded them next to the typewriter. Then she 
rested her chin on her hand and stared dreamily 
out the window towards the fraternity quadran­
gle.
She barely heard the light knock at her door. 
Engrossed in her reveries and almost mesmerized 
by the cicadian humming of her typewriter, she 
didn't hear it at all at first, and probably wouldn't 
have heard anything had a male voice not called 
out to her.
"Hey, is anybody home in there? Oh, there 
you are. Do you have a couple of minutes? I've 
got a couple of questions about the homework as­
signment."
What was he doing here...Skip McDonough, the 
most gorgeous ATO who sat directly across from 
her in Expo class all semester. If he only knew 
how many times she'd sat staring at his profile, 
imagining all the things she'd love to teach him. 
After all, they don't say "English majors do it 
with style" for nothing. But I can't look too exci­
ted or eager, she reminded herself.
"Uh, yeah, sure I can help. Just wait a few min­
utes 'till I finish this page and then we can com­
pare notes or something. Okay?"
"Awright, but we've got a game in 45 minutes, 
so I can't stay too long. Boy, are we gonna show
those turkeys who they're messing with."
Catherine winced unconsciously at his syntax 
as she pulled the sheet of paper from the carriage 
and turned towards him. "There. I'm done. 
What's your question?" She smiled in a manner 
that she hoped was inviting and expectant.
"Well, mostly, I was wondering if you'd be able 
to look over this and type it up for me. I don't 
type as good as I should, I guess."
Trying not to look too disappointed, Catherine 
nodded and took the manuscript from his out­
stretched hands. They were so strong and warm... 
but what was this? He wrote an expo paper about 
a German Shepherd? She took a deep breath and 
sat down at her keyboard, determined to make at 
least a good impression by whipping out his paper 
for him. Desperate means and desperate measures 
or something like that.
'This should only take about 20 minutes or so 
to do. You can sit and wait if you want. I have 
some potato chips on top of my dresser if you 
want them." This seemed to convince him to 
stay, and he sat on the edge of the bed to watch 
her.
Almost subconsciously she began to put the pa­
per into standard English. "To whom...whose... 
had given," she murmured to herself.
"You know, you don't look half bad without 
your glasses," Skip interjected. He got up and 
walked noiselessly over to her. The soft soles of 
his Addidas effectively muffled his steps, but if 
Catherine was startled when he put his hands on 
her shoulders, she didn't show it but continued 
her methodical tapping. She pounded away, mut- 
ering an occasional "damnation" when she over­
shot a key and produced a bastardized word like 
"hte" or "oug9t'\
She was barely conscious of the movement of
Illustration by: Tammy Stephenson
his hands as he began to caress her neck; she tried 
to relegate it to the myriad distractions impeding 
her progress. She had a faint realization that if she 
allowed herself to be distracted, she'd never finish 
in time and Skip would miss his game, and she 
certainly didn't want to be responsible for that. 
Skip's fingers slid along the hollows of her shoul­
der blades and the curves of her ribcage; her res­
olutely tapped at the keyboard.
After what seemed to be an eternity she ejacu­
lated a final oath and went through the intricate 
rites of correcting a typographical error, then 
triumphantly pulled the last page from the viscera 
of the typewriter. She half stood, was half pulled 
up; the notebook which had lain in her lap fell 
forgotten to the floor as Skip pressed her close. 
She felt the situation slip from her control but she 
only feebly tried to fight it as a mere formality; 
her will had given entirely, leaving her body hap­
pily helpless to resist. Closing her eyes, she slip­
ped her arms around his neck.
She could feel the edge of her desk pressing 
into the top of her legs, but the pain was all but 
obliterated by another exquisite sensation which 
she could only hope would never go away. She 
slid her hand downward.
"OuchI" She looked down at her hand to see a 
row of neatly typed hyphens on her forefinger, 
and there were little heart-shaped indentations on 
her arm where she had been leaning on her key­
board. Skip was nowhere to be seen, and the sight 
of the first half of her paper covered with random 
typings made it only too clear that she had fallen 
asleep on her typewriter, and now she was back in 
the real world.
At least this place can't take away my dreams, 
she sighed, as she settled back to her typing. At 
least I still have that.

---------------------------------------------------

February 14,1978—TARTAN—page 17
by Marshie
(sung to the tune of Fas^nation with 
apologies to D.B.)
Everytime I feel
Dick Cyert
I just can't stand still
I've got to use him
Everytime I think
Of what he pulled me thru dear
Dick Cyert moves
Sweeping near me
Still I take him
Dick Cyert
Sho nuff
Takes a part of me 
Can a heartbeat 
Live in the fever 
Raging inside of me 
Dick Cyert 
Oh yeah
Takes a part of me 
I can't help it 
I've got to use him 
Everytime
Dick Cyert comes around 
His soul is calling 
Like when I'm walking 
Seems that everywhere I turn 
I hope he's waiting for me 
I know that people 
Think I'm a little crazy 
But pleasure seeks this thing 
Like Dick Cyert.
Illustration by: Alyce Gottesman
Karen Joy
Iflike another,
I'm somebody.
If another likes me,
I'm double somebody
another,
'm special.
If another loves me, 
I'm double special.Illustration by: Sheila Melfe(2©p^prea6
by Jim Hamilton
Hey, Pal, you got that It's-Valentine's-Day-And- 
I'm-Lonely look on your face? Want to land that 
extra-special someone? Well, here are the ten de­
finitive do's and don'ts for taking that first, most 
terrifying step of all—popping the question!
10)
Don't whip out your appointment book. 
(Tacky!)
Don't forget to floss your lunch from be­
tween your teeth.
Don't bother with the wholesome girls, un­
less you like to sit two seats apart during a 
movie.
Don't tell her you have a loaded revolver in 
your room ...
Don't call her 'Jill' if her name is 'Janet.' 
(However, it's OK to call her 'Yvonne' if 
her name is 'Gertrude.')
Do look into her eyes and think about the 
last movie you saw on Liberty Avenue.
Do tell her, "I've joined the Army ... so I 
guess it's joodbye."
Do wear tight jeans, and pull them up as far 
as humanly possible.
Do wear an ATO t-shirt.
Do tell her you know me.

---------------------------------------------------

page 18-TAR TAN-February 14, 1978
SIpII We Fpafeer^ize, % SeaF?
CM spfye IMifekss ©£ Mixin
Author's note—Upon reading over this piece, the 
whole thing seems absurd, confusing, and very 
silly. But I must confess to the fact that my 
roommate and I do engage in such crazy activi­
ties. I decided to submit it because the fact that 
it is true makes the triteness seem that much 
funnier. However, I'd rather remain nameless, 
because despite what people say about frater­
nity guys, some of them can put two and two 
together. Love to all involved. You make life at 
CMU too confusing to be boring!
Cast of Characters:
Vivian: a freshman girl.
Lucille: Vivian's roommate.
Harold: good friend of Vivian and Lucille. Bro­
ther at Tappa Kegga Bru.
Frank: a freshman, who Vivian's interested in. 
Dave: Lucille's "on and off" man. Brother at 
Tappa Kegga Bru.
Don: a sophmore, and Lucille's new prospect.
Act /
On a dorm room. Vivian and Lucille, dressed 
to go out, are seated on their beds.)
LuciHe (wryly): I can't believe we're sitting here 
listening to the clock ticking on a Friday 
night What time is it now?
Vivian: 10:00
Lucille: You wanna go over to the mixer at I 
Felta Thi?
Vivian: (making a face): Not really.
Lucille: Why not?
Vivian: Uh... Frank will probably be there, be­
cause he got a bid there, and I don't want to 
see him too much.
Lucille: You don't want to see him?
Vivian (sarcastically): Oh, but I do.
Lucille: O.K. Let's go to Tappa Kegga Bru then. 
Vivian: We can't do that because we'll be the 
first ones there! We don't want to look like 
we really want to go.
Lucille: Yeah, you're right. Besides, I don't real­
ly want to go there anyway.
Vivian: Huh? Don't you want me to see Dave? 
Lucille: I do, but I don't.
Vivian: Whataya mean?
Lucille: I want to see him, but since he didn't 
call me this week, I want to go to I Felta Thi 
and pretend like I don't wait around. Besides, 
Don's brother is there, and I think he's nice. 
Sure you don't want to go there now?
Vivian: I really want to avoid Frank, if you 
don't mind. I'm trying to make him jealous. 
Lucille: O.K. We'll have a cigarette and listen to 
Billy Joel for a while, then go. Sound all right 
With you?
Vivian: Sounds good.
Act Ii
(At Tappa Kegga Bru fraternity. Lucille and 
Vivian are standing together, holding beers and 
looking interested.)
Lucille (barely moving her lips and smiling): 
This is really boring. I don't know anybody 
here. It's beat.
Vivain (with the same fixed smile): I know, but 
I don't want to go to I Felta Thi.
LuciHe: Besides, Dave isn't here. Where is that 
jerk?
Vivian: He'll come. After all, he is a brother 
here.
Lucille: I wish I hadn't gotten here before he 
did. Now I look too anxious to see him.
(Enter Frank.)
Lucille: Don't turn around, but look who just 
walked in . Frank.
Vivian: Oh, God, how did he get in? Don't they 
check IDs any more? You wanna go to I Felta 
Thi now?
Lucille (eagerly): Yeah.
Vivian (urgently, through clenched teeth):
C'mon, let's boogie! I don't want him to see 
me because Harold isn't here.
Lucille (confused): What?
Vivian: Hurry up! Ill explain at I Felta Thi.
Act III
(The actions are the same; only the setting
has changed.)
Lucille: So what about Harold?
Vivian: Well, if Harold were here I would talk 
to him and make Frank notice. I'd pretend 
like Harold and I were really chummy. See?
Lucille: Yeah. Ooh, look, there's Don!
Vivian (exasperated): Oh, Lucy, he's not as ugly 
as you said. Besides, he's nice. I know him.
Lucille: Is he? Oh, good. I want to talk to him 
but I don't want to look too interested.
Vivian (nodding): You're right.
Lucille: Wait a sec—he disappered. Where'd he 
go?
Vivian: Don't look at me, stupid. I don't know!
Lucille: Oh, damn, I'm so bored! This evening is 
turning out rotten!
Vivian: I know. I'm going to finish my beer and 
then let's go back to TKB.
Lucille: What about Frank?
Vivian: Uh, oh. No, wait. When we get there, 
you go in first and see if Harold is there, OK? 
Then I'll go in.
Lucille: Sure. I just hope Dave is there by now 
too. Since Don disappeared, I don't want to 
stay here.
Act IV
(Back at TKB. Vivian, Lucille and Harold are
standing together.
Vivian (wispering to Lucille as she smiles sweetly 
at Harold): Is he looking?
Lucille: Who? Frank? I don't see him at all.
Vivian: Go check if he's dancing.
Lucille (leaving and returning): Yeah, he's here. 
He's in dancing with Janet.
Vivian (relaxing): Good. Tell me when you see 
him. (Suddenly furious) Who's Janet?
Harold: What are you two broads whispering 
about?
Vivian (sweetly): Just little secrets between room­
mates. (Tickling Harold) You know. (To Lu­
cille, quietly) Can Frank see?
Lucille: No. Oh, there's Dave! I'll see you! (Exit 
towards Dave.)
Act V
(The same scene, approximatley one hour later.)
Lucille: Hi, Viv.
Vivian: Where have you been? I asked Dave and 
he said he'd lost you, too.
Lucille: That faggot went to talk to someone and 
just left me standing there, so I went upstairs 
and pretended like I know everyone in the fra­
ternity and he can just play with himself if he 
gets lonely.
Vivian: Oh, stop being gross! Have you seen 
Frank?
Lucille: He left half an hour ago. Didn't you 
know?
Vivian: Aw, gees, you mean I've been acting all 
this time for nothing?
Lucille (laughing): You're so queer!
Vivian: Not me! Look who's talking! Why don't 
you go talk to Dave, stupid?
Lucille: 'Cause he's trying to be a womanizer so 
I'm acting like I don't care.
Vivian: Oh. I'm bored. Wanna get a beer?
Lucille: Sure. I'll ask Dave if he wants one, too.
Vivian (laughing): You think I'm weird? You 
never give up. You just pretend.
LuciHe (smiling): Be right back. (Goes over to 
Dave.)
(At the bar.)
Lucille: That creep! He walked away from me, 
an' I was gonna get him a beer and everything, 
too. I'm so upset! He must hate me! Yeah, but 
I hate him too. Blecch! Creep! Queer! ...Boy, 
am I bummed.
Vivian: Hey, don't worry about it. Harold likes 
you.
Lucille: Sure, but he likes you too.
Vivian: Aw, I'm just trying to make Frank jeal­
ous. You know that. We're just good friends— 
don't worry about it.
Lucille: Thanks, Viv. Where'd he go, anyway?
Vivian (shrugging her shoulders): Dunno. He just 
left with everyone else we know around here, it 
looks like.
Lucille: Yeah. You wanna go?
Vivian: I guess. What a beat evening this was. 
Frank didn't even see me. Now he'll keep fol­
lowing me around.
Lucille: And I didn't get to see Don at all, and 
Dave's a queer-bait anyway.
Vivian: That's not very convincing. You know 
you like him. You just won't admit it.
Lucille (laughing): Yuckky little nerd!
Vivian: Time to go.
Lucille (getting up): Boy, what a night. I'm never 
going to another mixer again. I'v decided I 
don't like boys.
Vivian: Know what you mean, sweetie. Let's find 
our coats then get out of here. (They split up 
to search for their coats.)
(15 minutes later)
Vivian: Lucille, there you are. I'm leaving with 
Frank, O.K.?
Lucille: I thought you hated him. You could've 
won an Oscar for your performance with Joe.
Vivian (smirking): Well...
Lucille: You're gonna get a reputation!
Vivian (laughing): Not unless you open your 
mouth, bitch!
Lucille: Fair enough. Besides I'm leaving with 
Dave. I don't know if I'll be back tonight, 
O.K.? Don't lock me out in the morning or 
anything.
Vivian: Never!
(They separate and go their separate ways,
their faith wholly restored in romanticism and in
the Greek system. Curtain.)

---------------------------------------------------

February 14. 1978—TARTAN—page 19
^Fhe Peltro ©$ teM©
tye - Bp©®
by Jean PellegriniIllustration by: Scott Pollack
Once upon a time, exactly one year ago Sept­
ember 4, 1978, a darling little fuzzy creature with 
dimples decided that it was about time he paint 
the infamous Sleep And Eat Worm Eaters Club­
house stairway. As the final touches were about 
to be painted, a distraught large green she-frog 
with big blue eyes ascended the stairway.
"My life at the pond is simply unfulfilling. I 
must move on," mumbled the she-frog.
"Hey froggy, wanna help?" encouraged the 
small yellow bird.,
"I could pull the masking tape from the wall 
that you used to mark the lines. Ah, at last a 
chance to search for myself."
As the evening went along and the small yellow 
bird, with the help of the she-frog, finished the 
paint job, each noticed a strange but special look 
in the other's eyes. They were puzzled as to what 
this odd feeling was that neither of them could 
understand. A visit to the Wise Old Gnu was 
suggested by Dr. Darrigan the Dirty Dog so that 
they might be able to settle their predicament.
"All that I can tell you is that what you have 
does not dominate, it cultivates," Gnu Goethe 
said with a smile.
"Well, she-frog. We'll just have to remain calm 
until it goes away."
The next few months were filled with fun, 
sharing, and laughter as she-frog and the small 
yellow bird sought the cure for their seemingly 
terminal feeling. Everyday they wondered what 
could be making them do such things as sending 
flowers or stealing roses from the Bush of Roses 
in Johnstown Jungle, going for walks and hops on
sunny winter mornings, or receiving letters from 
younger yellow birds and she-frogs. But most of 
all, they couldn't understand why they kept 
saying again and again this silly phrase "I love 
you," as it were.
"I feel like a new she-frog. You have fulfilled 
my search, yellow bird. My mind is filled with 
thoughts of flies and lilies but most of all of you. 
But tell me, oh please, yellow bird, what is this 
feeling you have caused me to have and what does 
this "I love you" mean that we cannot stop 
saying?"
Li@ve and the G©R|p>uteep
by Simon NewmanIllustration by: Scott Pollack
Well, I finally went out on a computer date. I'd 
always wanted to, but I never got up the nerve to 
go down to the computer dating office. When I 
did, I realized that this wasn't all that bad. I even 
had fun filling out th'e questionnaire. For exam­
ple, they asked: Height (not much); Weight (more 
than I'd like it); Age (under); Profession (under­
paid and overworked); and Type of Woman De­
sired (beautiful, slightly older, intelligent, rich- 
I'm not picky). Last night, then, the computer 
finally matched my responses with those of some­
one compatable with me. I, Simon Newman, was 
matched with the woman of my dreams. Well, al­
most the woman of my dreams.
She was more like the grandmother I never had 
(and, I might add, never wanted). She had just 
left her fourth husband because nobody liked 
him. Her second and third husbands had both 
died, but I suspect she drove them to it. Her 
first husband just barely escaped her clutches 
after their wedding night.
We started the evening out at the Planetarium. 
We saw Laserium. We were supposed to hear it, 
too, but the tape broke in the middle. It was 
lovely looking at weird shapes going to a beat that 
wasn't really playing. And the evening had only 
begun.
After the show we stopped at a nearby restaur­
ant for some pleasant conversation. It was the 
first time I got a good look at my date. Her name
"She-frog, I have decided that someday we will 
have our own nest to share. You have made me 
feel like a new bird, ready to fly anywhere and 
able to soar to any height. I, too, wonder what 
this feeling is that you have caused me to have. 
What is 'I love you,' you ask? Something tells 
me it is you and me."
The moral to the story is that small yellow 
birds and large green she-frogs, as different as 
they may be, can find the meaning of a word 
like love without using their dictionaries. . . 
Sorry nerds!!!
was Rosie. I at first thought she was fifty-six, but 
I knew I was wrong. The stretchmarks from her 
facelift gave her away. Then there were the gray 
roots under her dyed red hair, and how could I 
forget her dentures? I figured that she was sixty 
five by then.
I was so appalled by her looks that I really 
didn't draw in all the exciting conversation going 
on. I picked up a little on how each husband 
made her miserable in a different way, and ho\s 
her kids (from the affair with the minister who 
performed her second husband's funeral) ignore 
her. I got conscious as she got to the joys of 
Gerito and the thrills of Dentu-Grip.
As we were waiting for the waitress to bring 
her a 7 & 7 and me a Shirley Temple, I began to 
wonder how I'd gotten matched with a lady old 
enough to be my grandmother. I know I d asked 
for an older woman, but wasn't this ridiculous''
She wasn't young, beautiful or intelligent, 
though she was short, and she didn't like my 
sports and hobbies at all, especially skiing, read 
ing and singing.
But Rosie explained that she had said she liked 
contact sports, reading, and singing. I v\as wonder­
ing how when she said that she loves reading bod­
ies, making up songs about them, and then sport 
ing about to see if the songs were true.
I thought to myself, "Wait a minute. I think 
she's too hot to trot."
And before I knew it, she was singing a song 
about us, but as she got to the chorus I stepped in 
with a "Whoa horsie, I mean Rosie."
"Ah, come on, kid. You're cute. I'm into you."
I didn't know what to say. "I'm into virginity."
(Continued)

---------------------------------------------------

page 20—TARTAN—February 14, 1978
Yes, almost anything does go in FOLIO's next 
regular issue! Just pick the topic nearest your 
heart or your typewriter, and turn it in to the 
TARTAN box in Skibo by Monday, February 20.
We can use plays, short stories, poems, magnum 
opi (if you have more than one opus), artwork, 
and whatever else inspires you. Break the dull 
routine. Write for FOLIO.
!?<*:XL
£5OQ
§
§
... jz£ozXsu~c<y ¦
. j?rtSrenaism ... ¿¿XcjcXsLno. 
?gtSoh,7,:0 .. . ?pe.tWrnoRS b bI
... JLC^__^XsLr^a ¦.. -¿^cxXiLrvo-' 
-&CJtXv~LA. -. . hFrt,ereOS b b I
... Jl^cjtAjLrz<K. •. .
. - - q£caXjlti<k ¦ ¦ ¦
• *. JL^cjCtsif^- ¦ - ¦
5^cjt^jk/~w ... j2/£<lxXin^.,. xXciXi/^iK
• * • S^C-^JLTUi . . . JZXcdjLSl*. 
Jl£cAJjU~L<K.... JuCcJL^L^O- •.. jZXcxfitSkJ. 
aKc.JiXcgJjLTUi... JlXcjiXxrify 
eX<ie^te/^ * •. JL%<jiXjLrt4-... ¿EciXfS»*
Lovelin,,,
¿XcjtXiru ... ¿XceSfcesui, . ¦ oXcjiXa/K.
It’S JuSfe IF BB
Too bad, my love, for we are 
Two years apart at CMU;
That thing which brought us together,
Teased us with good times,
Tortured us with bad times, has finally 
Told us it's no use.
For I am on my way out searching for a 
Future, a career, an elusive road to happiness.
For you have just begun to know the 
Feelings of failure and success, your directions 
in life, the
Fears and terrible responsibilities of living 
on your own, and 
Fuck, you've already got a girlfriend 
just where you are.
But I'm not afraid to love you quietly.
Befriending one like you is not a consolation prize. 
Before I go I'd like to tell you all of this,
But I haven't got the nerve and I doubt if I could 
Be as calm and rational as this poem has 
Been.
<2©FF?puteepli©ve Continued
She was taken aback and started blushing. 
"Why a woman of my age and a boy of your...." 
"Excuse me, Rosie," I butted in, "but how old
are you?"
"Sixty-four. But I lied on my application. I 
wanted to try a younger man."
That explained everything. I politely excused 
myself and called an escort from the Sunshine 
Home and had him accompany her back. The 
computer had mismatched us, and I felt compel­
led to send everyone to his or her appropriate 
corner.
I went back to my dorm room and made up 
some story to tell my roommate. Ah, well, maybe 
next Valentine's Day.

---------------------------------------------------

Goodman outranks Rankin
A concert review 
Artists: Steve Goodman and 
Kenny Rankin 
Producer: AB Concerts
by Tim Shields
The very idea that someone should 
review a concert is to me a tiny bit cir­
cumspect. If you were there, then there is 
no need for me to try to explain what went 
on. (After I’ve finished with this review, 
you may even wonder if we saw the same 
' concert.) If you did not have the good 
fortune to be able to attend any given con­
cert, telling you what the performers did 
is relatively unimportant, since the artist 
probably won’t be back into town for a 
while and the only way you could expe­
rience the artist would be through the 
medium of records—which tend to vary 
greatly from live performances.
Given those caveats, I’m going to 
attempt to explain what went ¦on last 
Saturday night in Carnegie Music Hall in 
Oakland. Why I’m going to do that I’m 
not entirely sure at this point, except that 
I got to go to the concert for free because
I said I would review it, so I’d guess I 
better go ahead and say something about 
the concert.
Steve Goodman opened the concert 
by skipping onto the stage and singing 
“When the Red Red Robin . . (if that’s 
the right title. Even if it isn’t the right title 
he still sang that first.) The crowd reacted 
to the old standard with delight, and that 
set the tone for the rest of Goodman’s act.
Goodman sang his songs as if he hadn’t 
been able to sing them for quite a while, 
at times got so wrapped up with his tunes 
that I thought that his red tennis shoes
were going to wear a hole in the carpet 
below his feet. Goodman seemed genuinely 
happy to be doing his songs for an audi­
ence, and happy that the songs were re-
Brecht on Brecht 
at Playhouse
Brecht on Brecht, George Tabori’s revue 
of the life and works of the controversial 
German dramatist, is scheduled to open at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Tuesday, Feb­
ruary 14. This pastiche of songs and writ­
ings of and about Bertold Brecht serves as 
an insight into the mind of one of the most 
influential playwrights of bur time and the 
period in which he produced his best 
known works.
Directed by James Prescott and featur­
ing an ensemble of actors including Rich­
ard Rauh, Charles Altman, Marilyn McWill­
iams, Sandy Reinert, Hugh Rose and John 
Amplas, the evening’s smorgasbord is 
drawn from Brecht’s sayings, poems, songs, 
letters, essays and plays. Brecht on Brecht 
is filled with wry and slashing comments 
on the foibles of individuals and the organ­
ized insanities of nations. Compassion for 
the unfortunate and the oppressed is never 
far from the surface, and the evening offers 
moments of searing poignancy.
Best known for his Threepenny Opera, 
Brecht is a powerful playwright who used 
the stage as a vehicle for awakening others 
to the corruption and misery of the world. 
Brecht’s world is a world of bad dreams, 
and quite possibly the reason that his plays 
began to become popular in the early six­
ties is that the whole world was beginning 
to have nightmares.
For information and reservations to 
Brecht on Brecht, call the Pittsburgh Play­
house at 6214445.
• •
w
Steve Goodman (left and upper right), and Kenny 
Rankin (lower left) in concert. Photos by Ramanan.
ceived so enthusiastically. In fact»' 
Goodman wanted to play his songs and get 
his message across so much that, after a 
while, he didn’t even stop between songs. 
He would just keep playing the guitar, 
right on through the end of the songs until 
he changed chords and launched into the 
next one.
A standout song of his tpo short 
opening set was his paen to 42nd Street in 
New York, in which he characterized the 
folks that hang around that area by saying 
“ . . . there are men who love women who 
love men. There are women who love 
women every now and then. There are men 
who love men ’cause they can’t pretend to 
be men who love women who love men.”
Steve Goodman is a fine on stage per­
former because he seems to put a lot of 
himself into his performing effort. His 
obvious zest for performing, his be-bopping 
about the stage, and his “bird-like tech­
nique” on the guitar, all lead to a most 
enjoyable evening. Bravo, Steve Goodman.
After a short intermission, Kenny Ran­
kin came onto the stage. Let me say at 
the beginning that I was not thrilled with 
Mr. Rankin’s performance Saturday night. 
Rankin seemed satisfied to let his songs 
sink or swim on their own merits, without
’his adding any impetus to them. Since a 
live performance depends so much on per­
sonal input, and since Rankin seemed un­
willing to give any. the Rankin portion of 
the concert was uninspiring.
Rankin also seemed satisfied to sing 
the same arrangements as appeared on his 
albums. If that is the case, why not just go 
out and buy a Kenny Rankin album and 
be done with it? The effect would be the 
same. You can hear him sing in the same 
style in both places; in the same arrange­
ments. What I’m saying is that the dif­
ference between a live performance and a 
performance on record is, in Rankin’s 
case, minimal. So, why bother?
However, Rankin’s choice of personnel 
for his touring band proved to be excellent. 
The bassist came from Gabor Szabo’s 
band; the drummer from Cannonball 
Adderly’s. Both then, have strong jazz 
backgrounds, and both provide a strong 
rhythm line for Rankin to work from. 
The bassist was exceptionally good, and his 
solo on the last song before the encore was 
breathtaking in its virtuosity.
Kenny Rankin seemed to expect the 
audience to applaud at the end of every 
song. After many years on the road, I can 
see how that would happen, but still,
applause has to be earned. It cannot, or 
rather should not, come from merely sing­
ing songs. If I’m harping on this point it’s 
because Rankin’s attitude really upsets 
me. A quote of his about having a cold and 
how it affected his voice demonstrates this 
attitude quite succinctly; “...if you 
think I don’t sound like I sound . .. then 
tought shit!” This attitude is reprehensible. 
He seemed to be saying “Well, I’m going 
to get paid whether or not I’m any good 
tonight so why bother to try?” Admittedly
Rankin did have a cold, and he was coughing during the pertormance, but a
simple apology, something like “I’m sorry
but I have a cold tonight, please bear with
me 111 do the best I can.” would have sat
much better with me than his “tough shit”
line.
An unavoidable point of comparison 
comes up, in the pairing of Rankin and 
Goodman on the same bill. Steve Goodman 
entertained; Kenny Rankin only sang 
songs. That is the essential difference 
between the two. Steve Goodman gives of 
himself onstage, while Kenny Rankin 
holds himself aloof. I’d like to see more 
performers like Goodman;less like Rankin. 
And that’s a shame because it doesn’t 
have to be that way.
PPT's unsettling drama
A play review 
Play: Medal of Honor Rag 
Author: Tom Cole 
Producer: Pittsburgh Public Theatre
by Carol Green
Today is an era of nostalgia, perhaps 
triggered by an attempt to forget the re­
cent past. Usually forgetting the recent 
past means forgetting Vietnam.
Medal of Honor Rag reminds us of those 
thousands touched by Vietnam by bring­
ing to life on stage one fictitious Vietnam 
vet named Dale Jackson. Dale never really 
existed but he is drawn up from the actual 
experiences of many Vietnam vets.
Critiques of recent material written for 
television and theatre cite that the Vietnam 
vet is fast becoming America’s newest 
stereotype. The vet is often pictured as a 
disturbed young man who comes home a 
pathological killer, all due to his war ex-
perience that is bottled up inside. He is a 
kind of social time bomb to be feared, 
shunned, and forgotten.
Although Medal of Honor Rag is a com 
posite of many experiences in Vietnam, 
it transends and goes beyond the usual 
stereotypes. The vet, Dale Jackson, is not 
a killer. He is witty, bright, and very 
human.
The conflict of Medal of Honor Rag is 
in the exploration of a doctor trying to 
explain to Dale why he has been decorated 
with the Medal of Honor for doing some­
thing he was always taught was wrong.
Damien Leake was extremely sensi­
tive handling the delicate part of Dale . 
Leake shows a man whose life is being 
ruined by the very medal that makes him a 
somebody in the military, but a monster 
to himself. Leake uses very tight emotion­
al timing to make D.J. a multi dimensional 
character. Handled carelessly, the char­
acter of D.J. could become a stereotype, 
boring to watch.
Robert Nichols plays the doctor who is 
forced to re access his own unwritten pol­
icy of never becoming emotionally in­
volved with patients. The doctor dis­
covers himself through D.J.’s uncanny 
ability to tear down the doctor’s wall of 
defenses layer by layer. In that process, 
a very cool doctor becomes a very defen­
sive person, and finally a very open, vul­
nerable human being.
Vulnerability is an unsettling state to be 
in, and this theme is carried out through 
the production. The setting is ahauntingly 
vivid reminder of the situation, as is the 
lighting by Karl Eigsti and Bennet Averyt, 
respectively.
This process of mental unveiling is dis­
quieting, particularly when the subject is 
Vietnam. A forgotten ghost in America’s 
closet, Medal of Honor Rag at the Pitts­
burgh Public Theatre demonstrates that 
the aftermath of Vietnam is some« 
thing essential that America must begin to 
deal with.

---------------------------------------------------

?>; v.v * Viihat- aver C v > ,., -,0
page 22—TARTAN—February 14, 1978
//Equus" takes to the big screen
A film review 
Film: Equus 
Director: Sydney Lumet 
Stars: Peter Firth and 
Richard Burton
by Joan Livitski
Do you want to go to a movie theatre, 
sit back and be entertained, dazzled, en­
chanted? Then don’t choose Equus. It’s 
bewitching, but it’s anything but enchant­
ing or sheer entertainment. The play’s spell­
binding quality easily makes the transfor­
mation to the screen, most likely because 
the screen writer was none other than the 
playwright Peter Shaffer. What is common 
is the over-riding effect on the audience... 
a possession of their attention.
While the play took advantage of sur­
realistic techniques, the movie confines it­
self to a concrete visual portrayl, saving ab­
straction for the underlying messages, Sid­
ney Lumet, the director, did well in decid­
ing to keep what we saw from being too far 
out of the ordinary. Instead he made the 
thoughts and reactions of the characters 
the basis for the intrigue.
The one scene with truly unavoidable 
visual impact is the blinding of the horses 
by the boy. Though decidedly gruesome, 
it serves the purpose of illustrating the dis­
turbing effect it has on him. The fast pac­
ing of the scene accompanied by the 
imagistic element, played on contrasting 
the other portions of the film in order to 
stress the significance of the scene.
This malicious act is what brings Alan 
Strang (played by Peter Firth) into Dr. 
Martin Dysart’s office and begins the 
mutual process of self-discovery for both 
characters. Richard Burton, in the role of 
the doctor, is forced to examine himself 
along with his patient, causing him to start 
doubting the validity of his practice.
The film opens with a face to face con­
frontation with Dr. Dysart in which he 
bares his soul trying to explain the reason­
ing behind why this boy, this one situation, 
effected him so. The fact that we are then 
taken in flash-backs to see the doctor/pa­
tient relationship, and then within that,
FUNDED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES
by Elaine Smith
“I don’t want realism...I want magic.” 
These simple yet overwhelmingly pow­
erful lines are from Thursday’s Film Aits 
movie, A Streetcar Named Desire. Author 
Tennessee Williams, well-known for his 
play The Glass Menagerie, has created 
a drama revolving around the conflict 
of reality versus illusion. Indeed, the 
above plea is perhaps the film’s central 
theme.
Even those who have not seen Street­
car are probably familiar with its basic 
plot. Blanche Dubois, one of the last 
of the Southern belles, takes up resi­
dence in the French quarter of New 
Orleans with her sister Stella. Stella’s 
lusband Stanley is a harsh contrast to 
Blanche. He brutally forces her to re­
alize that her glorious past is merely 
a memory.
Director Elia Kazan’s cast put on a 
performance that has become legendary 
in cinema history. Vivien Leigh portray­
ed the brooding Blanche so well she won 
an Academy Award as Best Actress. In 
the role of Stanley, Marlon Brando re­
ceived distinction that will never fade 
away. Karl Malden and Kim Hunter in 
their respective supporting roles both 
won. Academy Awards. A Streetcar 
Named Desire seemed to take all the 
prizes that night in 1951 as it also won 
for Best Art Direction and Best Set Dec­
oration. This is truly not a film that can 
be missed. It is shewing Thursday in DH 
2210 at 6,8:30,11.
CARNEGIE MELLON 
UNIVERSITY 
8:00 P.M.
FRIDAY
FEB. 17, 1978 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
PRESENTED BY: 
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
FILM COMMITTEE
taken back to Alan’s childhood, sounds 
confusing, but it isn’t. Everything has a 
logical progression.
A paradoxical situation is established 
right from the beginning in which we have 
Alan as the party with the “problem”, in 
need of help and Dr. Dysart as the “Nor­
mal”, stabilizing one. And yet early on we 
see the psychiatrist is the one going thru 
the major crisis. We see Burton taking the 
upper hand, seemingly the one in control, 
but all the underlying clues point to Alan 
as the directing force.
There’s a duality in movements with 
changes taking place in Alan as well as the 
doctor. Yet going beyond this point, there 
is also a dichotomy in the simultaneous 
occurance of progression and regression. 
We can taste the question lumped in 
Dysart’s throat, choking him. He wants to 
help Alan, take away his pain, and yet he 
associates being without pain to being 
without feeling. He is envious of the boy, 
he craves the passion he has. This only 
makes him question whether ridding him 
of that, “normalizing” Alan, is actually an 
accomplishment.
We in turn are left to ponder who is 
better off in the end. Alan has been “cur­
ed” of his frenzied compulsive passions, 
yet he is dull, boring, lifeless. On the other 
hand, we see Dr. Dysart going from a self­
assured, strong individual to a confused 
and submissive puppet, but he has gained 
insight in the process. He is experiencing, 
living.
The most refreshing thing about Equus 
that it elicits contemplation while most 
other films are satisfied with your compla­
cency. The strongest over-riding idea I saw 
in the film was in the question of what is 
responsible for determining what a person 
will be like. Circumstances, parents, envir­
onment, personal characteristics, can all be 
argued as possible components, and yet 
there is no answer, no formula. Everyone 
is different, has" different experiences, per­
ceives those experiences uniquely, and so 
the lasting effects are unpredictable.
The example in point is Alan. We along 
with Dr. Dysart try to answer the above 
question in terms of understanding Alan, 
figuring out what caused him to blind the 
horses. We see him transferring to horses 
a God-like worship symbolized in the re­
placement of a picture of Christ with that 
of a horse, creating ceremonies and rituals 
of altered Biblical and religious forms, 
calling the stable his God, Equus’, temple. 
Yet to try to determine what was the one 
factor or factors that specifically resulted 
in this isolation is impossible. We search 
along with the doctor, but the quest leads 
from possibility to countless possibility. 
Alan’s mother, frantically trying to ration­
alize away her fear of blame and guilt, 
terms it best when she says it was because 
he was Alan.
Though there’s no answer given in a 
song and dance-happy ending, the movie 
suggests enough possibilities and creates 
a sound enough foundation to allow 
a viewer to formulate his own ideas. While 
with most movies today I don’t get my 
money’s worth even in the theatre, Equus 
even gave me something added I could take 
with me.
SiiiauiiiimiiiiDiitiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiDmiuiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiimiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiHiiiiiiiiiq^s
PREPARE FOR: rMCATDÄTLSÄTGMÄT GRE * OCAT • VAT • SATf HMB I. II. Ill'ECFMG'FLEX* VQE f
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS
g Flexible Programs & Hours E:
There IS a difference!!!
~ For Information Please Call:
I 661-2772
ESSEX HOUSE 
NEGLEY & CENTER AVE.
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782
~ Centers in Major US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland ~
niiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaimiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiQiiiiiiiiiiiiQmiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiir;
• Iron City
• Schlitz
• Bud
• Koehler
• Strohs
• Genesee
• Rolling Rock
• Hop 'n Gator
• Schlitz Malt
• Ballantine Ale
• Rheingold
• Miller Light
• Michelob
• Pabst
• Miller
• Colt 45
• Genesee Cream Ale
• Busch
• Duke
• Schmidts
• Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM-2 PM
Quarts — Mugs — Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Specialty Items: FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES H ’ PIZZA SERVED TIL 3 AM
Hot Dogs—Choice of 12 Different Condiments 
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
621-7388
HOT DK SHOTS, MC.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1978—TARTAN—page 23
“I WON’T SIGN UNTIL I TALK TO MIA GENERAL?
Woe be those who sign with someone else before talking to Data General. 
Because Data General is the third largest computer company in the world in 
computer shipments.
After only nine years, we’ve installed over 44,500 systems—more than 
Sperry-Univac, NCR, Control Data, and Raytheon combined. Last year alone, we 
announced a new product every 15 working days. And shipped a new system 
every 16 minutes last time we checked. We even pump more revenues back into 
R&D than any other computer company.
That’s the kind of dynamic growth that spells opportunity for creative 
people with degrees in EE, ME, CS or other technical disciplines. And we can 
prove it.
Ask us to tell you about the engineer who designed a computer at night in 
his kitchen. And now heads up our fvlorth Carolina engineering research group. 
Or about the 21-year old college 
grad who sold $1 million plus his 
first year out. On commission!
Talk with Data General. And 
spare yourself the anguish of sign­
ing with someone else.
i w Data General
15 Turnpike Road, Westboro, Massachusetts 01581. (617) 366-8911.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
COLLEGE PLACEMENT Of FKEFEBRUARY 20
Taylor Dance Co. returns to Heinz
The Paul Taylor Dance Company will 
return to Heinz Hall on Wednesday, Feb­
ruary 22 at 8 PM in an outstanding pro­
gram, which will feature two of Mr. Tay­
lor’s most recent works. The Taylor Com­
pany, which appeared here two years ago, 
is being presented once again by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council.
Now in its twenty-first year, the Paul 
Taylor Dance Company is at the forefront 
of the dance world; the company has 
danced in over 200 cities in the United 
States; has completed twenty-two over­
seas tours, nine of which were sponsored 
by the US Department of State; and has 
represented the United States in the Arts 
festivals of thirty-five different nations. 
Since the formation of his company, Paul 
Taylor has choreographed over seventy- 
five dances for it. The 1976-1977 season was 
a vintage year for the Taylor repertory 
with the critically acclaimed premiere of 
Polaris at the American Dance Festival in 
Newport. The Taylor Co. will perform 
Polaris for their Pittsburgh program. This 
^iece is unique; it is presented in two 
parts, the choreography for Part II is an 
exact repeat of Part I with the changes in
the cast, music and lightinge concept
brought reviewers to say thatMr. Tayloris the genius among choreographers of 
today. The music for Polaris is to an orig­
inal score composed by Donald York.
Another piece on the program will in­
clude Aureole to music by George Frederic 
Handel(excerpts from Concerti Grossi in 
C, F and Jeptha). The program will be 
rounded out with 3 Epitaphs to American 
folk music, which features an ancestor of 
jazz, which was first played by country 
brass bands at weddings and funerals in 
Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi.
The last work on the program will be 
Cloven Kingdom(“mm is a social ani­
mal”), which was choreographed by Mr. 
Taylor in 1976, to music by Arcangelo 
Corelli, Henry Cowell and Malloy Miller.
Among the many honors bestowed 
upon Artistic Director Paul Taylor are two 
Guggenheim Fellowships for Choreogra­
phy; the Festival of Nations’ International 
Award for Choreography; the Capezio 
Dance Award for 1967; and election to 
knighthood by the French government as 
“Chevalier de l’Ordre des Artes et des 
Lettres.” Clive Barnes, formerly of the 
New York Times, recently wrote, “Paul 
Taylor is a genius-and this is not a word to 
be used lightly.”
Recently this thrilling company was 
featured in an hour program on NET’s 
“Great Performances”, Dance in America 
series.
Poetry time 
at English Dept.
by Joan Livitski
What comes with the close of the 
Spring Term? Of course there are the 
typical characteristics of: flowers (not 
yet blooming), blue skies (but not in 
Pittsburgh), green grass (not on the cut), 
and graduation (but not this Spring). 
One added attraction that’s like a robin- 
red-breast among a flock a pigeons is 
the poetry prize offered by the Academy 
of American Poets and Carnegie-Mellon 
University Press.
Students are encouraged to enter 
from 1 to 5 poems of original work for 
which a prize of $100 will be awarded 
to the best poem or group of poems 
by a particular poet. Xerox and carbon 
copies are acceptable since they will 
not be returned.
But don’t wait for the Spring Fever 
to bring about a rise in inspiration, for 
the deadline for submitting manuscripts 
is March 1, 1978. All entries are to be 
given to Anne King in the English Office, 
BH 259.
William Meredith will be on campus 
the week of March 13th to give a read­
ing, and will serve as final judge for the 
contest. The winner will be announced 
at the reading so attend and submit. 
Who can tell what Spring may hold in 
the air for you.
The Paul Taylor Dance Company will 
be in residence in Pittsburgh for a half 
week on the National Endowment’s Dance 
Touring Program and will do a lecture 
demonstration and master classes in the 
community.
Tickets for the Taylor concert are avail­
able at the Heinz Hall Box Office, Gimbels 
and Kaufmann’s. Discounts to students and 
senior citizens at the Heinz Hall Box Office 
only. Group discounts are available by 
phoning the Pittsburgh Dance Council 
355-0330._______________________

---------------------------------------------------

siu^uiijsaipj
jnoÁuo ims 
pE3q E noX 9AlS
uvo tuuinjB 000‘0> a\oij ino pu y
V y V V V V V
V V y V V V V
7 V V 7 7 7 7
V V V V V V VV V V V V V V
V V V V V V V
y 7 7 V 7 7 V
V V 7 V V V V
7 7 7 7 7 7 7
7 7 7 7 7 7 7
7 7 7 7 7 7 *
'7 7 7 7 7 7
7 7 7 7 7 7 V
7 7 7 7
7* 7 7 7 7
7 7 7 7 7 7
7 V 7 7 $ 7
PH -rauiijM. joojj qiÇ
3 3 !JK). îLI lu n[ Vuid^-ç ç[ yg ‘f\ ‘gj Aimicpj
ôooooooooooooooo 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO O O O O O o O 0 0 O O O O O o o 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
Ooo OOOOOO-OOOOOOOo o o o o o o o oooooooo 0000Or»000000 0000asaoHN3dO
SuipsuncQ
D^VS
ËIIIIII!llllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIINIIflllllllllllllllHlfllllllllllllllllMMHN«lllllllfllllllllHtl|£
3DI330 lN3W3DVld 3H1 NI 
8L HDdVW 9 t e l
SM3IAd31NI «Od dfl NOIS
S3A33H XDVr 11
:00S ‘UOipiUJOpi 0JOIU JOJ•AAVN MAV ÍUB OS pUl?
• • • jrcu nen si Aaiurqaoddo ewnns
•p|O0 p sSujM^N SN papje/v\e si oo) aq NC8989gi9 siq p0j0}seiu s,0q ¿duo pu\/ iue0} e se 
>|J0M p|id 0q* pue 0H (OJN) W^lld l^eN os|es,aj0m luejâojd uoqeiAv s/Ae^ aqj u; puq ||,noÀ spaajq ieiD0as asoq* p auo X|uo si jo;eiA\/ 9g,-M e 3uiagAâbn á|¿ oj paqi|enb oq/v\ 
uauj leioads asoqj p 0110 pus (p|»d) JopiA\/ pAe^ e s.an uoipuiuuapa euiiuejs '°°1 ‘wiq poq'e p| e AesAaqj puy eui|Ojeo q*JOf\j ‘iuaies-uojsuiM P U^M0 uJ»r jueuajnan 0} )0| e ueaiu Áaqi pp9 p ssujM Aabn•Ànq Aauoui 
4B3M i pjoS
TÏIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlilllllItlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlIIIIIIIIIIIIIKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlIlItlIIIIIIKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlIlfn
HIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH
sjuauijujoddy
ON
OO'SZ
SlN3NVWH3d
N01VS dIVH X3SINÍ1 
00Se-Z89
eizsi wd ‘Hounasnid
133M1S aOOMlV LÎZ 
9NIU0100
saannouivH Noisi03Ud
9-6
6 01 Md sjnm
¿01 PaM »ni uoW
0001
(MO|8-mo-qseM)
sinawvH
-sAn6 pue
S|eß jo-j pajinbaj siuaunuiodde 
on MliM A|j. ueo noA inojieq 
e 109 jjeq jnoA inoqe qiru; aqi 
joj ßmqojeas dois ueo noA mon
•qjnj_L joj qojeas .naqi 
ui i||ds 01 Bmqiawos aAeq sjaqd 
-oso 11 q j 'jeaddesip suoies 6u¡ 
->pn|d 'jieq p Aj3aoos|p aqi qii/v\
•((S|Aioepejaid asoqi a>ni A|j
01 aiqe aq p,8M 'sjaqieaj. seAA siqi 
i\„ qo9ia sjaïunoo '„AujuinQ,,
jad|aq S|q
'ßau> s;sisu| ',,sjaqiea^ seM ^n;s 
siqj iqßnoqj sAeM|e 3aa ;ng„
jieq
aoueisqns aqi S||eo an ‘qof Jied 
-aj lonpanbe auanoj e uo u¡ejp 
e ßuißßop sjaq^ paueuu p doinp 
e sj8aods¡p 'jaqtun|d aßv auois 
e 'qoaig- • O Q NOmilAI 3N0
jjoq p/joism di|)u; sjuauuow 10319
üfltlIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIMIIIMIIIIIIIIIMIIIlillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllin?
\
\
\
\
\

---------------------------------------------------

FVFNTS
MUSIC
Four professors from Vienna's Academy 
of Music will make their Pittsburgh debut 
on Monday, February 13, at 8:30 PM in 
Carnegie Music Hall, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society. Tic­
kets for the performance are available 
^at Kaufmann’s and the Pitt Student Union, 
and by phone to 624-4129.
The fifth free organ recital in a series of 
concerts at Carnegie Institute is a program 
of exciting organ and vocal compositions. 
The concert will be presented by Dr. 
Roger Evans, organist and member of 
the University of Pittsburgh music fac- 
ulty, and the popular Pittsburgh baritone 
Robert Calvert. It is scheduled for Feb­
ruary 19 at 3:00 PM in the Music Hall, 
Oakland.
CINEMA
AB will present A Streetcar Named Desire 
on February 16 at 6, 8:30 and 11 PM. 
All films are shown in Doherty Hall. Ad- 
.mission is .75 with ID.
AB will present the Schlitz Movie Orgy 
on February 17 at 8:00 PM in the ball­
room at Skibo.
SDC will present the movie Gypsy Satur­
day, February 18th at 6, 8:30 and 11P.M. 
inDH 2210.
The screen adaptation of Lillian Heilman’s 
southern melodrama, Little Foxes, starring 
Bette Davis, will be shown February 14th 
at 8 P.M. in the Kresege Theatre, Carlow 
College. The film is sponsored by Carlow 
Colege's Women’s Studies Program and free 
to the public.
The film, A Member of the Wedding, star­
ring Julie Harris, Ethel Waters and Brandon 
de Wilde will be shown at the Kresege 
Theatre, Carlow College, on Tuesday, Feb­
ruary 21st. The movie is sponsored by The 
Women's Studies Program and is free and 
open to the public.
The exquisite countries of the Mediter­
ranean are highlighted in Rare Jewels 
of the Mediterranean a Camgie Insti­
tute Travel Film. Host Bill Madsen will 
narrate his film production February 13-16.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie will open 
for nine performances February 24 at 
McKeesport Little Theatre. The show runs 
February 24-26, March 3-5 and 10-12. 
Curtain times are 8:30 PM, 7:30 Sundays. 
For reservations, please call 673-1100.
THEATRE
Pittsburgh Public Theater will present Slow 
Dance and the Killing Ground by William 
Hanley performed in repertory with Medal 
of Honor Rag by Tom Cole, and directed 
by Terry Schreiber, at the Allegheny The­
ater on the Northside from February 1 
through March 5. Ticket information 
is avalable by calling 323-1900.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present 
“Mother Courage” by Bertolt Brecht, 
translated and directed by Bill Royston, 
Fridays through Sundays, January 20 to. 
February 26, at 8:30 PM. Seating is lim­
ited and reservations should be made well 
in advance by calling 621-2876.
On February 23, 24, and 25th, Com­
munity College of Allegheny County, 
South Campus Performing Arts Depart­
ment will present Joseph Kesselring’s
MELBROOKS
A Psycho-Comedy
starringMADELINE KAHN - CLORIS LEACHMAN-HARVEY KORMAN
abi starring DICK VAN PATTEN RON CAREY HOWARD MORRIS
A MEL BROOKS FILM-Produced and Directed by MEL BROOKS 
Written by MEL BROOKS ¦ RON CLARK ¦ RUDY DeLUCA - BARRY LEVINSON - Music by JOHN MORRIS
Coin by OflUXf" NOW AN ACt PAPtRBACK
PG
[ MUSIC FROM -HI6H MXIETT MWLABLE Oil EUKTm/ASTLUM «CORPS t MPtS |
PMEKIW EUOMCi SUSSISTEI’S»
1979 20TM CENTURY FOX
STARTS WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 15
Check your local newspaper for theatre listing
classic comedy Arsenic and Old Lace. The 
curtain is at 8 PM; tickets are $2 for gen­
eral admission and $l to students, staff and 
faculty. Tickets will go on sale February 
13 in the Business Office, D-319. Box office 
hours are 9AM to 4PM. For reservations, 
call 469-1100, Extension 253.
Camegie-Mellon University wiu present 
Rogers and Hammerstein’s musical Carou­
sel until February 18th. The production 
will be held in the Kresge Theatre, Fine 
Arts Building at 8:20 PM. For ticket infor­
mation, call the Box Office at 578-2407, 
Mondays through Fridays, from 10 AM to
5 PM.
WRCT
WRCT presents its News Magazine on Sun­
days from 8:00 to 9:00 P.M.
The Treasure Room, Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute currently has an ex­
hibition In the Classic Spirit. This exhibit 
will be on display through the Spring.
It features a variety of .objects from 
the Museum’s permanent and private 
collections and is composed of ancient 
and Renaissance bronze and 18th century 
porcelains, enamels, and silver.
The collected films by Robert Nelson and 
George Landow will be screened at 8 P.M. 
in the Museum of Art Theatre, Carnegie 
Institute, on Feb. 7th. The films are open 
to the public and free of charge.
MISC.
ART
An exhibition of new and recent drawings 
by Marisol will be held at the Jennie King 
Mellon Art Gallery from February 14th 
thru March 5th. The gallery hours are 
Tuesday thru Sunday from 2 to 5 P.M. and 
Fridays from 7 to 9 P.M. The premier will 
be Sunday, February 12th from 7 to 9 
P.M. with an informal talk by the artist 
scheduled for Monday, February 13th at
2 P.M.
Israeli artist Joshua Neustein will have his 
paintings on display February 1 through 17 
an Camegie-Mellon University.
The Velar Gallery is located in the lob­
by of CMU’s Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration. The gallery is open Mon­
day through Friday from 9 AM to 5 PM. 
The Neustein exhibit is free and open to 
the public.
AB Coffeehouse presents Mantle, local 
Pittsburgh group, and Jeanne Sprague, 
CMU student, on Saturday, February 
18, 1978, in the Wherrett Room, Skibo 
at 9:30 PM. Refreshments will be served 
and like always the Coffeehouse is open 
to the campus community.
Janet Gillespie and Present Company will 
be featured with the Lucy Reynold’s Con- 
tempory Dance Company on Friday, Feb­
ruary 17 at 8:00 PM in Trees Hall of the 
University of Pittsburgh, Alliquippa and 
Darraugh Streets. The program is the sixth 
in a monthly series of studio concerts pre­
sented by the Pitt Dance Ensemble.
The Alternative Coffeehouse will feature 
Tom Neuland (Alias Nick Danger), per­
forming feats on the four, six, eight, and 
twelve strings respectively: "The Blues,
Ragtime, and Folk Rock”. It is located at 
the Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. Friday, February 
17 at 8:30 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

12 Chapters
A best seller...the television event of 1977...and a celebrated movie
February 20 through March 16 
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays 
2 showings each day— 
11:30 and 12:30
i I
A Best Seller . . . the television event of 1977 ... and a celebrated movie from Films Incorporated.
11:30 & 12:30, Wherret Room, Ski bo
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
FREE - Bring your lunch and a friend.
Monday. February 20—Chapter 1 - THE AFRICAN
The year is 1750 and in West Africa the villagers of Juffere rejoice at the birth of 
a baby to Omoro Kinte and his wife Binta—a baby named Kunta whose destiny 
lies in America. Fifteen years later Kunta and his friends are being inducted into 
manhood—learning the skills of the Mandinka warrior. And on the high seas the 
slaveship Lord Ligonier, its hold outfitted with wrist shakles, neck rings, and 
thumbscrews, nears the African shore.
Monday, February 22—Chapter 2 - THE AFRICAN (Cont.)
Kunta completes the rites of manhood and once again the villagers rejoice. But 
their joy is short-lived. Seeking wood in the jungle to make a drum. Junta is cap­
tured by white slavers, branded and chained in the hold of the Lord Ligonier, soon 
on its way with its human cargo to Annapolis, Maryland. Ravaged by dysentery, 
seasickness, festering sores, the slaves have one flickering hope—mutiny.
Thursday, February 23-Chapter 3 - THE SLAVE
Taken on deck, the slaves wait for a moment when the crew's attention is distrac­
ted. The signal is given. Junta struggles for the key to the shackles and the 
mutiny begins. The bloody confrontation ends, the slave rebellion put down. Sep­
tember 29, 1967, the Lord Ligonier anchors at Annapolis. Ninety-eight of the 140 
captives have survived. At the slave auction a defiant Kunta is bought by John 
Reynolds and given the name of "Toby," a name Kunta refuses to acknow­
ledge.
Tuesday, February 28— Chapter 4 - THE SLAVE (Cont)
En route to his tobacco plantation in Spotsylvania County, Virginia, "Massah" 
Reynolds places an older slave, Fiddler, in charge of the wild African. Fiddler 
begins training Kunta immediately, soon coming to admire his rebellious young 
pupil. Kunta contrives an escape, but hampered by leg chains he is easily recap­
tured by overseer Ames. An almost fatal beating ends when Kunta surrenders to 
the inevitable, whispering "Toby,“ Fiddler, carrying for Kunta's wounds, reminds 
him that he will always be Kunta no matter what the white man calls him.

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1978—TARTAN—page 27
Tartans feted at Dapper Dan
by John Jones
Three members of the Carnegie-Mellon 
athletic community were honored at the 
42nd annual Dapper Dan Banquet on Jan­
uary 29.
Honored were Tartan head football 
coach Chuck Klausing, head basketball 
coach Dave Maloney, and CMU’s all-time 
single season scorer and first basketball 
All-American, George Harvey.
Rarely do three individuals from the 
same university achieve these honors con­
currently. In addition to this, it should be 
noted that these were national awards and 
the candidates were not restricted to the 
Pittsburgh area. The awards were in recog­
nition of each individual’s outstanding con­
tribution to their particular sport.
Consider the qualifications of the trio 
(compiled by Sports Information Director 
Dennis Morabito) and it will become appar­
ent why they were honored:
Coach Maloney led the Tartans to an 
18-6 record last year, the best in CMU bas­
ketball history, and took them to the 
NCAA playoffs for the first time ever. The
1976-77 PAC basketball crown was the 
first league title won by CMU in any sport 
since Carnegie-Mellon joined the confer­
ence in 1972.
Coach Klausing, who has lost only two 
games in two seasons at CMU, compiled a 
8-1 record in 1977, including a 7-0 league 
mark which gave the Tartans their first 
football title of any kind in 40 years. The 
football squad finished among the NCAA’s 
Top Twenty small college teams and was 
among the nation’s leaders in six statistical 
categories.
Harvey, a local star who played in the 
Dapper Dan Roundball Classic as a high- 
schoobr out of Peabody, set new Carnegie- 
Mellon single season records in scoring and 
field goals in his first season as a Tartan.
He was the catalyst in CMU’s turnaround 
and finished the season with a brilliant 60- 
point performance in the NCAA Div. Ill 
Great Lakes Regional Tournament, in­
cluding 36 points against national champion 
Wittenberg. In addition to being selected 
to Basketball Weekly’s first team Div. Ill 
squad, he was the conference and district 
MVP.Chess Corner
CHESS CORNER 
By Joseph Bartinicki
Author of Problem: Joseph Bartnicki
The Analysis of this problem is not yet 
complete. Any further interesting lines 
which are submitted by readers will be 
presented next week.
Black to play and mate in 7 moves.
tPSN'N “IP9Ü-*! *•
NXH‘-
tntdp
.tnn raewnimwnpofaw jaipjnj nen 
31VW NX0‘£H’N L
M3axD 9
H399-Ò dXd S 
M^Xd >N-*I P 
vpy-d ‘qi->i e 3i
31VW dX9‘dXd 9 
M^Xd>N->I S
iptoi-d
^¿a D laxN e 3i 
(3ivwaxò‘i^oi^JO)
31VW 9N-(£)y ‘tti :M P 
tfXU)>I ‘£N-*I £ 31
3IVW 9H-H ‘ora s 
ipsa-D ‘>ix>i y 
(e) NXHl"e 
(3IVW HXd >N-H P 
W4d‘oi-)iejo) 
e
ipz.a-ò ‘NXNc 31 
3ivw 9H-y ‘lu x e 
H3HXN I 31 
3JLVW HXU ‘IttHZ 31
aivw Nxa ‘sa-N o
(31VW 88Ò ‘IHOI9 J0) 
OI-N9 
lP£N *(8)>I 'Zii-yi s 
M^X(8)U ‘Z.N-Ò P
axy iy-M e
M3NXH‘NXd Z 
qo93-N ‘ "I 
Ü3MSNV
The CMU women's basketball team graduates two seniors, Ingrid Goedicke (left) ^nd Barb Owens.
Volleyball dub wins own toumey
The CMU Club Volleyball Team opened 
the 1970 intercollegiate season with a 
stunning victory, winning the 3rd annual 
CMU Invitational Power Volleyball Tourn­
ament. CMU crunched Edinboro, 15-7,
15-5; and pounded Pitt, 15-10, 15-6, in 
the quarter- and semi-finals. The team went 
on to vanquish rival Slippery Rock in the 
championship, 15-6, 15-5.
The field of ten teams included Pitt,
Slippery Rock, Edinboro, West Virginia 
University, Indiana of Pa., California 
State, Allegheny College, Central College, 
and CMU. These teams plus Alliance, Penn 
State-New Kensington, St. Vincent, Geneva, 
and Behrend comprise the Western Pennsyl­
vania Intercollegiate Volleyball Association
(WPIVA), now in its second year under the 
direction of CMU’s Dirk Kalp. The league 
season consists of ten tournaments to be 
hosted by the member schools. The next 
tournament is February 19, at Indiana of 
Pa., followed on February 26, by the 
Slippery Rock Tournament.
The CMU Club Volleyball Team is in its 
third year of existence under funding from 
Student Government. Aside from providing 
a competative intercollegiate team, the 
club has also organized recreational volley­
ball. Thus far the club team has represented 
CMU well, finishing second in the WPIVA 
last year and second in the informally 
structured league the year before.
_____Still Room on the Ground Floor for_____Computer Careers at Amdahl
Computer professionals are aware that 
today’s most advanced large-system 
technology «'as developed by a company 
that, not too long ago. was virtually 
unknown. It was during late 1975— 
when Amdahl delivered its first multi- 
million-dollar 470V/6 system follow­
ing a 5-year. $50,000,000 effort—that 
the company first attracted wide­
spread industry attention. Now. Amdahl 
is the most talked about company in 
the industry: a compact group of highly 
talented high technologists producing 
the world’s highest performing general 
purpose computers, the V/5. V/6 and 
V/7. Over a quarter billion dollars 
worth of Amdahl systems is now 
working worldwide in every industry 
sector using large-scale computers.
The original design team is still vir­tually intact and working on future 
systems. Although we are growing at
an extremely rapid pace, we are com­
mitted to retaining the same creative 
environment that yielded the V/5.
V (i and V/7. We are still small by com­
puter industry comparisons. We are 
still friendly. We still enjoy attacking 
tasks because we think it’s fun. And 
we still reward personal efforts with 
jK'rsonal recognition.
We think Amdahl is a great place to work. There’s still room on the 
ground floor for you if you arealx>ut 
to receive a BS or advanced degree 
in electrical engineering or computer 
sciences, and consider yourself a cut 
above your classmates in competence, 
enthusiasm and potential.
Amdahl Corporation. 1250 Kast 
Arques Avenue. Sunnyvale. California 
9408ft. We are an equal opportunity employer.
We are connut/ to nun/ms to fill 
positions in hardicmr, firm­
ware and hard wore- rei at ed soff­
ocare, We are specifically 
interrieu'ing for logic and finn­
ica re des ign e / \s a n d
hardu'are-related, soft .Dare 
diagnostic engineers, design 
automation programmers, and 
control programmers for our 
m in i-based console.
0N-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:Tuesday, February 21amdahl

---------------------------------------------------

page 28-TARTAN-February 14,1978
Swimmers bug Case
Joe Dickey churns through the water en route to a victory in the 200 yd. individual medley.
by John Rossi
The CMU Swimming Team met Case 
Western Reserve in its last home meet of 
the season last Saturday. Once again, the 
Tartans expected a close, tough meet, but 
ended up winning in a rout, 70-31.
The meet could have been close except 
Case’s team had been hard hit by the 
Russian flu, and many of their good swim­
mers stayed home.
The meet began as the Tartan 400 yd. 
Medley Relay team of Joe Dickey, Jimie 
Uber, Harry Coleman and Tom Barr came 
from behind to win. CMU took the top 
three places in the 1000 yd Freestyle with 
Jim Matysek, Dave Watterson and Neal 
Kushner finishing in that order. Joachim 
Nettler and John Rossi came in one-two 
in the 200 yd. Freestyle, and Pete Dickey 
turned in his best time of the year as he
The fact that The MBAMcalculator was designed 
for business professionals is a great reason 
for buying one while you’re a student.
We designed The MBA to 
help professionals arrive at 
fast, accurate answers to a 
broad range of business and 
financial problems. The same 
ones you’ll face in your busi­
ness classes.
Interest, annuities, ac­
counting, finance, bond analy­
sis, real estate, statistics, 
marketing, forecasting, quanti­
tative methods and many more 
course applications are in your 
hands with The MBA.
This powerful calculator 
also features preprogrammed 
functions that let you perform
more difficult calculations at 
the touch of a key. Instantly. 
Accurately. You may also enter 
your own programs up to 32 
steps long, saving significant 
time if
you’re doing JpPjJ 
repetitive 
classwork 
problems.
MBA comes ^ 
with an 
illustrated 
text, “Cal­
culator
Analysis for Business and Fi­
nance.” This new guide shows
you how simple calculator 
analysis can be with The MBA 
calculator. It’s 288 pages of 
understandable, easy-to-follow 
reading. And it’s coupled to 
more than 100 real-world ex­
amples that show you step-by- 
step how to make calculator 
analysis work for you as never 
before.
If you’re building a career 
in business, The MBA business 
financial calculator can be one 
of your strongest cornerstones.
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
...INNOVATORS IN 
PERSONAL ELECTRONICS
byLin danDekMyaDn
© 1978 Texas Instruments IncorporatedINCORPORATED
finished second in the 50 yd Freestyle, 
with Jeff Bland swimming well to finish 
third. The 200 yd. Individual Medley was 
won by Joe Dickey, with Doug McPherson 
coming in second.
For the second consecutive week, Bob 
Frye and Tony Carrington were unopposed 
in the Diving events. Both hit some nice 
dives, and Carrington thrilled the crowd 
with his soon-to-be-famous Boston Crab.
Harry Coleman won the 200 yd. Butter­
fly in a good time and Doug McPherson, 
coming out of the 200 IM, came in third. 
Pete Dickey and Jeff Bland teamed up 
again in the 100 yd Freestyle to take the 
top two places. The Tartans recorded an­
other one-two finish in the 200 yd. Back­
stroke, with Joe Dickey and Dave Watter­
son getting the honors. Jim Matysek, swim­
ming the 500 yd. Freestyle m exhibition, 
set a new school record of 5:09.1. John 
Rossi, also swimming exhibition, was 
second. In the 200 yd. Breaststroke, Brian 
Hobbs, and Jamie Uber finished first and 
second, respectively. The 400 yd. Freestyle 
Relay foursome of Pete Dickey, Harry 
Coleman, Jim Matysek and Tom Barr 
stroked to an easy victory to end the meet.
The meet marked the final home ap­
pearance of seniors John Rossi and Neal 
Kushner. Pete Dickey, also a senior, has 
one semester of eligibility remaining. 
The Tartans will also lose their manager of 
the last three years, Bob Hantz.
The Tartans’ final dual meets are Wed. 
Feb. 15 at Duquesne, and Sat., Feb. 25 at 
Allegheny. CMU’s record now stands at 
5-0 in the PAC and 7-2 overall. The season 
concludes with the PAC Championships 
the first weekent in March. The Tartans 
will enter the meet only with hopes of 
finishing second, behind the powerful 
Allegheny Gators. Coach Donna Pecman is 
to be highly commended for the way she 
has led her team, in three years, from the 
bottom of the PAC to challengers for the 
top honors.
CMU foils PSU
On Thursday, February 9, 1978 CMU’s 
fencing team traveled to Penn State Univer- 
sity-Fayette Campus. CMU won the fencing 
meet 38 to 23. Victor Brennan, Peter Bond, 
and Avram Scheiner won all of their bouts 
with Crystal Hoffman and Jon McGraw 
losing just one.
The team looked sharp and when our in­
experienced fencers get more competitive 
fencing time we will really be strong. 
Fencers from CMU were Peter Bond, John 
Booz, Victor Brennan, Pam Chase, Julie 
Cohen, Crystal Hoffman, John McGraw, 
Brian Pierson, Andrew Mendler, Avram 
Scheiner, Jay Michaels, Cathy Stadler, and 
Alice Tome.
The meet with St. Marys College set for 
Saturday, February 11, 1978 is to be re­
scheduled. The reason was that much of 
their team had the flu.
The team’s next meet will be with Case- 
Western Reserve Saturday, February 18, 
1978 at 1 PM in the Women’s Gym. Come 
out and see some exciting action.
Hoop schedule
Carnegie-Mellon, still holding on to first 
place in the Presidents’Athletic Conference 
with a 9-1 league mark and 12-4 overall 
record, travel twice to Cleveland this week 
for key PAC clashes. The Tartans take on 
John Carroll tomorrow night at 8:00 PM 
and Case-Western Reserve at 8.00 PM on 
Saturday night.
CMU is home at Skibo Gym on Monday 
night for a non-conference battle with Cal­
ifornia State at 8:00 PM. California State 
features Scott Mountz, the leading rebound­
ing in the NAIA with more than 17 a game.

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1978-TARTAN-page Z9
This week in 
Intramural Sports
by Frank Pugliano
le IM programs here at CMU offer 
mething for everyone. The emphasis is 
3t so much on excellence, but on excerise 
id competion. It offers the entire student 
ady and faculty a chance to do something 
>r itself, without pressuring the almighty 
.1^*. The IM Department, headed by Earl 
irdy, strives to provide athletic competi­
on in which everyone with an interest can 
articipate. This week, for example, the IM 
•epartment is sponoring registration for 
rograms in swimming, table tennis (singles 
tid doubles), call pool, foul shooting, wa- 
;r basketball and bridge.
Swimming registration forms are due in 
i^£M Office today, Tuesday February 14. 
jiyone eligible can participate in any one 
f the events listed below:
00 yd. medley relay 
0 yd. freestyle 
00 yd. individual medley 
10 yd. butterfly 
00 yd. freestyle 
>0^/d. backstroke
yd. breaststroke 
>00 yd freestyle 
>00 yd. freestyle relay
The registration forms for call pool, 
able tennis, and foul shooting are due Tu 
Tuesday, February 21, in the IM Office. 
\lso, registration forms for water basket- 
)all are due three days later, on the 24th.
Jome out and have tun: besides, sports 
ire great therapy for relieving tension.
Businessmen 
perfect new racket
The GSIA QED’s proved too much to 
landle, winning the raquetball playoffs to 
iiMerve a perfect 11-0 record for the year. 
Second place went to the WIZ’s, a young 
team likely to be much improved next 
/ear. The two Computer Science entries, 
CS1 and CS2, finished third and forth. Just 
missing the playoffs were the GSIA Bucks, 
a tough luck team who could easliy have 
finished higher in the standings, 
i The GSIA QED’s included GSIA facul- 
It^members Milton Harris, Bob Redinger 
aifvi Rick Staelin who tutored the team on 
maximizing court position and on the op­
timal market mix of different shots. Also 
playing key roles w :re Keith Crocker, Jane 
fFedorowicz and Harry Evans. GSIA is con­
sidering converting raquetball from an elec­
tive to a core course, consistent with the 
^school’s philosophy of specializing where it 
has a compartive advantage.
iThe Nose Knows:
! IM Basketball
1 The Nerd Knockers have come of age. 
''With the help of Ralph DeaBrunzo, co-
- captain of last year’s CMU PAC Champion- 
lship basketball team, the team has matured 
MLnto a top contender for the major league 
¥mi basketball title. With player-coach 
'George Plumbo, who has brought the team 
1 to a 6 and 1 record to date, and talent like 
‘ DeaBrunzo, the team is very tough to beat, 
j Currently, their 6-1 record places the Nerd 
1 Knockers in the first place in the Erving 
1 Division of the major leage, second best 
j over all.
* Controlling the boards for the Nerd 
.Cnockers are Bobby Kennedy and Rick 
Brown, both quarterbacks for the CMU 
Tartans. Ball and court tactics are handled 
I ably by Ralph David and Gus Sunseri. 
Butch Dillon and Keith Bille are the key to 
the Nerd Knockers great bench strength. 
Also in reserve are Mark Demo, “Squales” 
Pat Olivo, Bill Ochalek, and Len “Lance
- Romance” Gustafson.
Basketball
continued from back page
W&J in overtime
a slim 49-48 margin with four minutes to 
play.
Tony Wallingford canned a jumper from 
the comer to give the Presidents the lead 
to stay at 3:49, 50-49. Raybuck soon fol­
lowed with a hoop to put W & J up by 
three and CMU into a catch-up situation.
Les Harper brought CMU back to with­
in one with a bucket, but the ever-present 
Raybuck hit two free throws to extend the 
advantage to 54-52. Harper followed suit 
from the charity stripe with a minute re­
maining to bring CMU to within one, 54- 
53.
W&J worked the ball to kill the clock 
and find the easy shot. CMU slapped the 
ball away, but Raybuck was once again on 
the scene to convert the loose ball into a 
hoop with only 33 seconds showing on the 
clock. When the Tartans failed to score and 
Mike Pratt converted both ends of a 1-1 for 
W&J with 16 ticks left, the Presidents had 
taken complete command, 58-53. George 
Harvey’s field goal did nothing except make 
the final close, 58-53.
Hiram 74-59
Finally, in the waning minutes of the 
first half CMU really made things difficult 
for Hiram, outscoring them 8-2 over the 
last six minutes of the half to break ahead 
with an 18 point intermission margin, 34- 
16. The senior trio of Harvey, Harper and 
Chambers equally divided 24 points over 
the first 20 minutes of play.
The start of the second half was a repeat 
of the first as Harvey nailed every attempt 
and the Tartans moved to leads as large as
22 points.
Hiram threatened a comback as Brad 
Ellis fired in-field goals from long range to 
narrow the gap to 15 with a little over six 
minutes remaining. The freshman guard 
connected from the field on 5 of 5 in the 
second half.
After the Terriers’ spurt, CMU went to 
the four comers offense to regain complete 
control. The Tartans ran it to perfection 
and coasted in easily to the 74-59 final.
Harvey again led the balanced CMU 
attack that had four double digit scorers. 
The senior co-captain hit 10 of 17 from the 
floor and was 3 for 3 from the line to total
23 points. The excellent first halves of 
Chambers and Harper paced them to 14 and 
13 point afternoons, respectively. Belechak 
also chipped in with 10.
Case-Western 75-701
high 26 points. ~
Termini’s long range jumpers gave the g 
Spartans a 36-29 lead late in the half before 
CMU made a brief comback. Two free 
throws by Larry Hufnagel and field goals 
by Les Harper and Harvey moved the Tar­
tans to within one, 36-35.
But Case came back again with the ex­
cellent foul shooting that has placed them 
in the top four of NCAA Division III in 
that category. The Spartans completed an 
8 for 8 first half effort from the line to 
take a surprising 42-37 advantage going in­
to the half.
Down by nine, 5243, with time starting 
to work in favor of Case, the Tartans went 
on a 10-2 scoring binge to narrow the gap 
to one. Two free throws by Harvey, a Joe 
Belechak hoop, and three straight buckets 
by Harper had the Tartans in striking pos­
ition.
CMU had several opportunities to re­
gain the lead, but failed until Harvey’s 
jumper at 7:22. Harvey repeated a minute 
later to put the Tartans up by three 65-62.
The teams twice traded baskets before 
Coach Maloney signaled for the four 
corners at 4:00. Belechak’s layup a min­
ute after the stall began gave CMU a com­
fortable 71-66 advantage.
IBM NEEDS OUTSTANDINGPEOPLE
And we can offer outstanding 
career opportunities for MBA 
Candidates in Marketing or 
Computer Science and for those 
majoring in Engineering.
We will be interviewing at
Carnegie-Mellon 
on February 17, 1978
To find out about IBM and let us 
find out about you, sign up for an 
interview at the Placement Office or 
write to: I.C. Pfeiffer, Corporate 
College Relations Manager,
IBM Corporation,
One IBM Plaza,
Chicago, IL 60611.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
___I

---------------------------------------------------

Are we glad you're here!
le CMU cheerleaders: (L to R) Janice Davis, Brandi Jackson, Debbie Beasley, Darlene Baugh, and Karen Yaksich.
Eleanor Schaffner and Cheryl Warfield (not shown here) join up with these girls to form a very enthusiastic group.
V':
The cheerleaders in action. . ..sVOne. r. . two three four fiveftThe mighty Tartans'll take no jive
mm«*»
The Tartan Brain trusts . . .
Coach Dave Maloney and his Assistant Phil Weimer
How to make jour last twojears of college mean even more.
Take the Army ROTC Two -Year 
Program.
If you’ve just about completed 
your second year of college, and you’re 
planning on two more, it’s not too late 
to take Army ROTC.
You start the program with 
six-weeks of Basic Camp (you’ll be paid 
for it) between your sophomore and 
junior years.
Then it’s back to school in the 
fall. Learning how to become an Army 
officer while you’re working on your 
college degree. Earning an extra $100 
a month, up to ten months a year.
And two years later, you’ll 
graduate with your degree, your com­
mission as an Army officer, and 
some real experience at leading and 
managing people.
The last two years of college 
mean a lot.Take the Army ROTC 
Two-Year Program and you can make 
them me an a lot more.
Photos by Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1978—TARTAN—page 31
Baseball returns to CMU
by Mike Jochmann
lay Haynes. . .
“physical education and intramural boss 
to be commended .for starting a baseball 
earn at Carnegie Tech. The turnout has 
)een encouraging (65 for 22 sports) and 
h^efforts for the team promises varsity 
tatus in a few years. ”
TARTAN "Sports Headliner”, May 6, 1952
lob McNall. . .
interested Carnegie-Mellon student is to 
ie commended for starting a baseball team 
t Carnegie-Mellon. So far 75 persons have 
ncUrated interest in the program. McNall 
imeves the number mil grow as tryouts 
or the 25 man roster get under way. 
-lopes are high that the efforts of the team 
vill promise varsity status in a few years.
Twenty five years ago, Raymond Haynes 
;vho is still with the Athletic Department, 
formed a baseball club. Soon afterward, 
t ceased to exist. Now another baseball 
is being started here at the campus 
jnder circumstances seemingly resembling 
those of the previous club.
Does history repeat itself? Not complet- 
3ly. CMU baseball, vintage 1978, has a 
couple of things going for it that might 
make this team a more permanent fixture.
Consider Bob McNall, the determined 
Baseball Club President. In talking to 
•flftall hree things became clear, he loves 
jaseball, he believes CMU is a natural set- 
ing for a baseball team, and he is willing to 
go to difficult lengths to convince the cam­
pus community that a sufficient number of 
ather people that think exactly as he does 
to warrant such an organization.
Consider, second, Bill “Scrappy” Allen. 
Bill Allen has been named the CMU base- 
bit coach, a position he sought on the re­
commendation of Birdy. In Allen CMU has 
a baseball figure with possibly as formidable 
a reputation as anyone here since Honus 
Wagner coached the Tartans back in 1916.
Allen, in fact, knew Honus Wagner per­
sonally. As a player trying to make the 
Pittsburgh Pirate baseball organization in 
the early 1940’s Allen fondly recalls how 
t^would watch in awe as Wagner, by then 
a silver haired gentleman, would sit in the 
corner of the dugout idly playing with 
matchsticks. Allen marveled that this 
man three decades earlier had been the 
scourge of the National League and had 
just five years earlier become one of the 
five charter members in Professional Base­
ball’s Hall of Fame.
^Clearly. Bill Allen is one of those per­
sons in sports who, like Tip O’Neil in poli­
tics, knows everyone in his game and, more 
importantly, knows everything about being 
a success in the game. As a player Allen 
reached the top-playing for Detroit in the 
American League. Later he scouted for ten 
years at various times for the Cleveland In­
dians and the Pittsburgh Pirates. And when 
y Haynes was just forming his version of 
EFTe Carnegie baseball club, Allen had just 
finished his tenure as coach of Butler in the 
now defunct Mid Atlantic C-level Minor 
League. About eight years later, Allen 
formed the perennially tough Mt. Washing­
ton American League team. When he finds 
the time, Allen also referees college foot­
ball and basketball, including CMU’s home- 
4^ming game with Washington and Jeffer­
son last year.
Consider, finally, the team itself and the 
philosophies shared by McNall and Allen. 
McNall makes it clear that he is out for 
fun, but that doesn’t seem to mean he 
equates fun with losing. “We want to make 
this a fun team,” says McNall, “but we also 
want to win—while keeping the whole 
thing in perspective.” That McNall asks for 
players’ academic schedules on the registra­
tion form shows that he means what he 
says about not distorting priorities.
Allen echoes McNall’s sentiments and 
explains what he feels is his true purpose 
here: “The kids will be picked by ability. 
That’s the major reason' I’m here—to make 
sure everyone will be given a chance under 
a competitive situation.” Allen continued, 
“I’ve always thought it takes a lot of brains 
to play baseball, especially at this level. 
The students here will sacrifice some of 
their free time to play baseball, so they 
must be disciplined.” Allen marvels at the 
commitment student-athletes show at a 
place like CMU, but also prides himself 
on “getting kids through school”, even 
when he was coaching American Legion 
players.
His concern for getting kids through 
school might be precisely one of the 
reasons Allen will succeed. For instance, 
Allen is convinced that college coaches 
who once were grateful recipients of some 
of his former charges are now ready to re­
ciprocate with favors of their own. Elabor­
ating, Allen said, “I just got a letter from 
Bob Levels (Pitt Baseball Coach), it appears 
as though we might have cracked the ice as 
far as scheduling a game with them. I guess 
you might say we’re collecting markers 
from teams who got some of my players.” 
This back-scratching may also make find­
ing a playing site easier. For example, Allen 
reports that Pitt Coach Levels told him 
that finding a home game site would be no 
problem, implying that the Pitt diamond 
might be available to CMU.
So far, this strategy, along with consid­
erable leg work from Allen and McNall has 
produced an impressive first year schedule, 
particularly so because CMU’s club status 
will prevent them from being counted on 
varsity team’s records. Thus, opposing 
teams have something to lc*e—injury to 
players-without gaining the possible bene­
fit of a counted win when teams are being 
considered for post-season tounaments. 
Among the teams which have been firmly 
or tentatively scheduled are. Allegheny 
Community College, St. Francis, Point 
Park, Pitt, Duquesne, Gannon and Frost- 
burg (next year).
As impressive as has been the scheduling 
success is the ability of Allen and McNall 
to arrange a large pool of personnel. In 
addition to the 75 of so students who have 
informally shown an interest already, both 
McNall and Allen believe the recruiting of 
players will emerge as naturally as many
other things about the club. McNall be­
lieves that Coach Allen’s many connections 
in the sports world has already helped start 
a recruiting program. Allen recounts an 
instance of this. “I was refereeing a game 
up in New Castle when 1 inquired about a 
player who I felt had the potential to play 
for Coach Maloney. When 1 talked to the 
player he said he was interested in CMU 
but they didn’t have a baseball team. I said, 
well they do now and you’re talking to the
coach.” Allen and McNall both also believe 
that this phenomenon, that of a two sport 
athlete wanting to combine both sports at 
a good school, is prevelant enough that 
other CMU sports will benefit from adding 
baseball— a sport which is often the 
second sport for two-season athletes.
Even without this added advantage 
McNall believes that enough talent is here 
already for the Tartans to become a con­
tender right away in the PAC. Of course, 
CMU is a club and therefore not eligible to 
compete for the title. The point McNall is 
making is that should the club become var­
sity, CMU’s overall sports standing in the 
conference will improve measurably.
Allen is more cautious on this subject 
and prefers to wait on the offering of 
judgement until after the initial workouts 
begin in late February. The only player 
Allen will commit himself to is John Tucci, 
a tight-end for the football team and son 
of former Carnegie Tech quarterback and 
standout basketball player John Tucci, Sr. 
“I know about John because he pitched 
against my team in the American legion 
regional last year,” said Allen. “He showed 
me a lot of ability."
Once he does see the talent he has, 
Allen admits his toughest task will be to 
pare the team down—to “divide 65 into 25
uniforms”. Says Allen: “One of my biggest 
problems is leaving some kids out after they 
put their time in—I think Td like to dev­
elop some kind of feeder team.” Allen also 
envisions a rotating roster where those who 
do not make the first 25 will fill in as play­
ers who, because of injury or academic 
commitment, become unavailable.
Beyond these tangible things, there is a 
sense of cooperation and overt admiration 
among those involved, which further en­
hances the club’s chances for success. 
Allen, for one, reports that he “respects 
Bob McNall very much”, and that he be­
lieves McNall’s burning desire to suc­
ceed is one of the baseball club’s greatest 
assets. For his part, McNall just smiles and 
waxes peaceful every time the coach’s 
name is mentioned.
Allen was also complimentary of many 
of the members of the CMU community. 
In particular he was very grateful for the 
assistance and encouragement the athletic 
department has given, especially Jim Ban­
ner, Earl Birdy, and Dave Maloney; and for 
the financial assistance student senate pro­
vided with the help of Deans Cox and 
Swank.
Allen has good reason to remember 
Dean Swank. “Sure I remember him,*’ 
beamed Allen, “he told me about the old 
Carnegie Tech baseball club back when 
Buddy Overend was Athletic Director at 
the school.”
That Allen should remember Overend 
should not surprise anyone. After all, he 
was connected with baseball, wasn’t he?
UNITED
TECHNOLOGIES
PRATT & WHITNEY 
AIRCRAFT GROUP
WILL BE
CAMPUSI
February 20,1978
to interview candidates
Consult your Placement Office, 
for degree and field of study 
requirements
UNITEDTECHNOLOGIES
An Equal Opportunity Employer/Male & Female
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Hoopers win 2, lose 1, 
still first in PAC
Case closed 75-70| W&J ends streak
by Bob Firm
Basketball may be the only sport where 
the home fans can be a definite factor in a 
game. People packed into a tiny gymnas­
ium making lots of noise pump up the 
home team and can rattle an opponent in­
to oblivion.
At Skibo Gym, where Camegie-Mellon 
has won 17 straight over a two-year span, 
the crowd played a major role in the Tar­
tans* extension of that streak with a thrill­
ing 75-70 come-from-behind effort over 
Case Western Reserve.
A grateful Coach Dave Maloney said 
afterwards, “We can thank the fans for this 
victory. If they don’t get us going, we’re 
going down.”
Both Maloney’s crew and the Tech fans 
were in the unfamiliar position of being 
behind late in a home contest. From 10:30 
left in the first half, when John Daugherty 
put Coach Bill Sudeck’s Spartans ahead 
for the first time, until George Harvey hit 
for the Tartans with only 7:22 remaining 
in the game, Case held the lead.
Case took a solid first half lead to the 
locker room built on the super outside 
shooting of 5-7 senior Mark Termini. The 
1000 point career man hit on 13 of 18 
from the field for the evening and a game 
Case-Western, W&J stories continued on page 29.
One can easily find cliches to describe 
Washington & Jefferson’s surprising 58-55 
overtime triumph over host Camegie- 
Mellon. Trite phrases like “All good things 
must come to an end.” and “History re­
peats itself’ would be appropriate for the 
situation.
Coach John Unice’s Presidents (7-8 and 
5-4) shattered the Tartans’ 17-game winning 
streak at Skibo Gym and also stopped 
CMlTs Presidents’ Athletic Conference un­
beaten streak at nine. It was also the se­
cond year in a row that W&J has prevented 
the Tartans from going undefeated in the 
PAC.
The main culprit as far as the Tartans 
were concerned was the Presidents’ Roger 
Raybuck. The sophomore center scored 34 
points and grabbed 17 rebounds, both totals 
career highs for him. Most importantly, 
eight of his evening’s total came in the over­
time period.
Raybuck hit only 13 seconds into the 
extra session to give the Prexies a 48-46 ad­
vantage. Freshman Dave Hofmeister, com­
ing off the bench to replace Larry Hufnagel 
who fouled out with 4:55 left in the over­
time, then hit a jumper and converted the 
first of a 1-1 situation to give the Tartans
CMU rebounds against Hiram
by Bob
Camegie-Mellon bounced back from the 
loss earlier in the week to Washington & 
Jefferson with a fine performance against 
visiting Hiram, 74-59. It was the first 
breather for the Tartans since January 26 
when they romped at Thiel.
Coach Dave Maloney said afterwards, 
“The key was our excellent defense in the 
first half. It forced them into several turn­
overs. We also rebounded well today, par­
ticularly on the offensive end.”
It was Senior Day at Skibo Gym in 
honor of graduating seniors Pat Ward, 
George Harvey, Greg Chambers, and Les 
Harper. The three starters, Harvey, Cham-
Firm
bers, and Harper, keyed the big first half 
that spurred CMU to the victory.
The Tartans raced to an early 12-4 lead 
behind Harvey’s and Harper’s jumpers and 
a spectacular tip in by Chambers. The 
Terriers played raggedly because of Tech’s 
pressure defense and made many costly 
mistakes.
Midway through the first half, CMU got 
another quick spurt to push their advan­
tage to 12. Joe Belechak, showing signs of 
recovering from his shooting slump, canned 
two in a row and Chambers followed from 
the wing to give the Tartans a 22-10 lead.
Hiram story continued on page 29.
Joe Belechak hooks in two of the eighteen points he scored against Case.
Defense key for women
Barb Owens controls the action against Set on Hill. CMU won the game 55-33.
by Perry Colosimo
In women’s basketball action last week, 
the Tartans of CMU blitzed a respectable 
Seton Hill squad, 55-33 on Wednesday, and 
a rather young and inexperienced Chatham 
team, 65-22 in non-league play on Sat­
urday.
The Tartans unleashed two deadly wea­
pons upon the bewildered Seton Hill squad 
in the personage of Brandi Jackson and in 
application of a stalwart defense. Jackson 
was unstoppable from the right corner, 
hitting buckets as if the ball obeyed her 
every command. She led all scorers with 18 
points, followed closely by teammate Barb 
Owens, who muscled in 17 points.
Most impressive, however, was the de­
fensive play of the Tartans. Down by 8 
with three minutes to play in the half, the 
Tartans tightened their defensive play and 
simultaneously supplemented it with a 
scoring barrage of 10 points. Dawn Drake’s 
aggressive follow of a missed shot put the 
Tartans ahead at the buzzer, 24-23.
The Tartans continued their tenacious 
defensive play in the second half. Unbe­
lievably, they held Seton Hill to 2 points 
in a span of 12 minutes while continuing 
to pour in buckets at their own end. Seton 
Hill’s top scorer, Kathy Calabrase, was held 
to 9 points. Terry Preskar was once again 
coach Janice Kepple’s defensive ace, steal­
ing the ball four times in the space of two 
minutes.
About the only thing Seton Hill could 
do effectively was execute the full-court 
press. The Tartans seemed to be rattled by 
the pressure applied by coach John Fogle’s 
squad, but managed to get the ball to 
Terry Preskar who had little trouble wea­
ving her way upcourt.
Coach Kepple was very pleased with her 
team’s performance and said, following the
game, “This was definitely our best game 
of the season.” She agreed that L ; Tartans 
needed more work on breaking tne press, 
but confided that, “We’ll be working on 
that in practice.”
The scheduled opponent for Saturday’s 
game was Carlow College. However, Carle*, 
forfeited the game and was thus replaced 
with Chatham College. The Tartans again 
made use of their deadly weapons. This 
time it was Terry Preskar, instead of 
Brandi Jackson, who was master of the 
rouiiuball. The ball obeyed her for 29 
points. The other weapon was the same as 
in the Seton Hill game: DEFENSE. The 
Tartans allowed only 22 points while it. 
dulging in 65 for themselves. Mistakes 
plagued the inexperienced Chatham squad 
opportunity presented to them. Barb 
opportunity presented to them. Barb 
Owens again dominated both the offensive 
and defensive boards, taking 16 total re­
bounds. The top scorer for Chatham wa° 
Bonnie McElvey with 7 points. The Tartans/ 
of CMU will be facing Washington & Jeffe 
son at home tomorrow evening at 7:00. 
Turn out to see if the Tartans can make it 
three straight.
CMlFs two game totals:
Pts.S.H.C.C.
Davina Davies10
Laura Cooper0
Barb Owens179
Dawn Drake26
Mary Patrick02
Gale Gammerdinger22
Ingrid Goedicke0
Tammy Fair0
Carolyn Baxter02
Terry Preskar1429
Brandi Jackson181 •
