SHILLING BRIDGE 
K. is B.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15 j
"THE CRITIC”
ALL WEEK 8 -.15 P. M.
MATINEE FRIDAY
VOL. XIX No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 12, 1924
PENN STATE IS 
HOST TO 800 
OF PLAID CLAN
Population of Mount Nittany 
Much Augmented For the 
Day—Special Train Carries 
400—Good Lunch Service
GENERAL ASSEMBLY NOW
POSTPONED UNTIL DEC. 9
0. B. Newman, in charge of the 
assembly program, was to have had 
a speaker at yesterday’s assembly, 
but owing to the Armistice Day holi­
day, the next assembly will not take 
place until Tuesday, December 9.
The program promises to be ex­
cellent, whether Newman presents a 
speaker or stages one of his popular 
vaudeville entertainments. Undoubt­
edly everyone enjoys the display of 
Carnegie talent at the assembly en­
tertainments, but no one will for­
sake hearing a speaker or a good 
hour of merriment. Be there.
COMMITTEE IS 
APPOINTED FOR 
JUNIOR PROM
WOMEN'S ATHLETIC ASSOC. 
PLANS SCHOLARSHIP
BUMMERS POPULAR
“Well, anyway we had a lot of 
fun.”
This seemed to be the universal 
* comment among the passengers on 
the special train coming from Penn 
State, and among the bummers mak­
ing their way by a more romantic 
but less swift method.
Early Friday evening, bummers 
without numbers commenced trick­
ling into Penn State and they contin­
ued ! trickling until, about Saturday 
noon, it became a steady stream. If 
one is to believe the stories that are 
told the journey was not made with­
out events of .interest to most of the 
hardy emulators of the apostles.
The specia: train arrived at Lemont, 
Pa., about one o’clock and unloaded 
a crowd of eds and co-eds all ready 
for the game, since they, in contrast 
to former years, had already had op­
portunity for securing the necessary 
refreshments on the train. In fact, 
the dining car service was the fea­
ture of the train. It is reported that 
a great deal of valuable milk and 
cream was wasted, but this was not 
true for the cider, the supply of 
which proved entirely inadequate.
Immediately upon arrival all the 
sundry means of locomotion were 
pressed into service to carry the 
crowd to the Penn State campus, so 
that the streets of the little College 
town was soon filled with people 
headed for the field, among them over 
800 wearing the brilliant Plaid colors 
of Carnegie.
The game itself, while somewhat 
disappointing in its outcome, was a 
good one. The crowd returning on 
(Continued on Page Four).
SHILLING BRIDGE TO 
BE HELD SATURDAY
First Issue of Year Will Ap­
pear Shortly Before 
Thanksgiving
Drama Department to 
Present “The Critic”
Comedy By Sheridan Will 
Open Monday
This week at the Little Theater, 
the Drama Department is presenting 
a comedy "The Critic,” by Richard 
Sheridan, an Eighteenth Century
English author. The pliay will be
given every evening from November 
eleventh to nineteenth, at 8:15
o’clock, with a special matinee for 
students Friday, November fourteenth 
at 4 p. m.
The Critic” is one of the most 
famous burlesques in the English 
language. It was originally present­
ed at the Drury Lane Theater, Lon­
don, in 1779, at a time when Sheri­
dan was manager of the theater. 
The comedy satirizes the popular 
p'lays of the period when it was 
written, 'but all the shafts of the 
author’s wit are quite applicable to 
modern conditions.
In the first act, especially, the 
author pokes fun at the absurdities 
of authors and theatrical folk in 
general and he is amusingly modern 
in his treatment of the subject.
The principal characters in the 
first act are:
Mr. Puff, who is the prototype of 
the modern press agent, played by 
Harry Mervis.
Mr. Dangle, the dilettante “hang 
around” of the theater, acted by 
Vernon Halden.
Mr. Sneer, impersonated by Hardie 
Albright.
The rest of the play represents 
the rehearsing of one of the tragedies 
of the day and is the target of Mr.
(Continued on Page Four.)
RIFLE CLUB TO CHOOSE 
PINS AT MEETING THURS.
The Carnegie Rifle Club will hold 
its second meeting of the season in 
Room 60, Science, on Thursday even­
ing, November 13, at 7:30 o’clock. At 
this meeting the much discussed 
Rifle Club insignia, a pin of unique 
design, will be reported upon and 
the action the club will take will be 
decided. Reports by the. manager 
and captain, on the Rifle team and 
schedule of 1924-25 will be present­
ed. Plans for the annual tournament 
and the proposed handicap match 
between all members of the Rifle 
*club will be discussed.
All men interested in small arms 
gallery shooting are urged to attend 
this meeting and join the Rifle club 
at this time. As the first match is 
with the Chicago University and is 
scheduled for the week of December 
S, it is imperative that all men get 
started in their practice as soon as 
possible. The old range in the Arts 
Building is open every day from 
3:30 to 7:00 p. m., and is ready for 
the use of Rifle club members except 
on Wednesdays when it is reserved 
for the team.
The first Shilling of this school year 
will make its appearance on the camp­
us just before Thanksgiving. The 
Shilling Staff, with Jerry Perry as edi­
tor-in-chief, is endeavoring to make 
this edition the most interesting ever 
published. Several novel features 
have been installed, one of which is 
a “contributor’s, page,” containing a 
short introduction to each Technite 
who has contributed to the issue.
Although the Shilling is under the 
management of women students ex­
clusively, its contributors represent 
all of Carnegie, engineers as well as 
Maggie Murphs. The cover of the 
next.issue will be a nartistic illustra­
tion to a poem “Tuceuse” written by 
Sarah Elizabeth Hayes. This will be 
designed by Rosslyn Doyle. Other, 
contributions include a poem by War­
ren Kimball, and stories by Alice 
Moore, Edith Warren, Barbara White, 
Margaret Eckhardt, Anne Kinzer, 
Virginia Wallace, C. W. Davidson, and 
even our own Obie Newman, and it 
isn’t about football either.
With such an eminent list of con­
tributors, this issue of the women’s 
publication promises to be one of real 
literary merit, well worth its pur­
chase price of anyone who can appre­
ciate literary merit in publications, 
and of course every loyal technite is 
interested in good literature.
Apropos .of the Shilling, don’t for­
get the Shilling Bridge for which one 
hundred tables have been engaged 
at Ivaufman and Baer’s auditorium, 
November the fifteenth at two thirty. 
Tickets at one dollar each may be se­
cured from members of the Shilling 
S'taff. The Shilling of past years has 
been somewhat limited in regard to 
space. The proceeds of this bridge 
will go toward making the Shilling 
a bigger publication, better adapted 
to contain matters of general interest' 
to the student body at Carnegie.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Russel Rollor of Arts Elected 
Chairman With Lloyd 
Yoder Treasurer as Com­
mittee Starts to Work
JAN. 30 IS DATE SET
Puppet is Compiling 
Football Number Now
Much Heralded Issue Will 
Appear Soon
Bigger and better than ever, the 
next isue of the Puppet will probably 
make its apearance on the campus 
about December the 18th. It is to be 
called the “Football Number.” In it 
will be found the things that interest 
the student football fans. The memo­
ries of the similar number last year 
still remains in the minds of the 
upper classmen, and they all antici­
pate as good, if not a better number 
this year.
A word to ambitious men and wo­
men. The editor would like to have 
more editorial and art material. Per­
sons turning in art work are to be 
warned not to use any work publish­
ed in art magazines, etc. It cannot 
be printed again and perhaps tends 
to discourage young art aspirants. 
There are also positions open on the 
business staff and it behooves inter- 
ested students to lend their ambi­
tions and spare time to a good advanf 
tage.
Back up the Puppet! Help make it 
the best college publication in the 
country by contributing material and 
purchasing a copy every issue.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS TO
HOLD DANCE NOVEMBER 14
Last Thursday evening witnessed 
the Novemeber meeting of the Me­
chanical Engineer’s Society; Car­
negie Student Branch. After a gen­
eral discussion, it was voted to hold 
a dance.-at some hall on the Campus, 
to be decided later, on Friday No- 
cember 14. This dance is to be an 
affair exclusively for the Mechanicals 
and their friends. The main purpose 
is to promote the spirit of fraternal 
ism among the students of Mechani­
cal Engineering.
All business being disposed of, the 
Mechanicals were given a treat, in 
the nature of an informal discussion 
on patents, by Mr. Edward A. Law- 
renc4, a prominent patent lawyer of 
Pittsburgh. The talk was extremely 
interesting and was well received. 
When the gathering finally ended at 
ten o’clock, all present carried home 
with them the satisfactory feeling 
that is due to something having been 
accomplished.
The general committee for the Ju­
nior Prom., to be held January 30, 
1925, has been officially appointed, 
and is hard at work on arrangements 
for what they will strive to make the 
biggest and best social function ever 
held at Carnegie.
The committee, chosen by the Pres­
idents of the Junior Classes of Arts, 
Industries, and Science, from a list 
of men recommended by last year’s 
Prom. Committee, is comprised of men 
who have proved their worth as in­
dustrious and efficient workers in all 
their activities while at school. They 
are: Russell Roller, and Lloyd Yoder, 
of Arts; Ben Kristoff and Dwight 
Beede, Industries; Jack Harris, Sci­
ence; George Murphy, Industry; John 
O’Conner, Science; Harold Wagoner, 
Arts, and Carey Proctor, Science. 
Roller has been elected chairman, 
and Yoder treasurer by the com­
mittee.
Roller, as all who know him will 
agree, is certainly as deserving of 
this honor as any man in the school. 
He is First Assistant Football Mana­
ger, served on the Campus Week 
Committee last year, is a member of 
Kappa Sigma Fraternity, and of Del­
ta Skull—the Junior honorary.
Yoder, affectionately known among 
the student body as “Bull”—on ac­
count of his football ability, be it 
understood—is another of Carnegie's 
most capable students. He is enrolled 
in the Dramatic. Department, is a 
veteran football and track man, was 
manager of interfraternity track last, 
year, and served on the Arts Ball 
committee. He is a member of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and of Del­
ta Skull.
The committee, does, not desire to 
give out any information as to the 
ball or orchestra for the affair at this 
time, as plans are too uncertain to 
be* valuable. Subsidiary committees 
necessary for the work have been 
formed, however, and a budget has 
(Continued on Page Four)
Glee Club Rehearsal 
Remains Unhampered
Nothing Hampers Glee Club 
Rehearsal Sunday
The regular rehearsal of the Musi­
cal Clubs was not hampered by any 
stunt smoker last Sunday, and there 
was much accomplished. Notwith­
standing the fact that many of the 
rooters have not yet regained tho use 
of their voices, and the fact that many 
of the rooters were not present at 
the rehearsal, the. work went on as 
usual. This fact, or these facts, were 
important to both clubs, for although 
the men in the Mandolin Club didn’t 
need their voices, their presence .was 
essential to the success of the re­
hearsal.
The Mandolin Club, which has had 
much success along the lines of re­
hearsals, is rapidly coming into , form 
as the most musical Mandolin Club 
ever liad here at Carnegie. This is 
all due to Director Kovak, for it is 
he who lias the men under control. 
When asked, by the reporter, wheth­
er or not he would have a Novelty 
Orchestra to accompany the Clubs on 
their concert tours, he said, in his in­
imitable way; ‘'I have trouble enough 
getting a Mandolin Club without los­
ing sleep over a Novelty Orchestra 
yet.” Knowing this to be a jest, the 
reporter laughed heartily, and con­
sidered the statement to mean that 
there would be no official Club Or­
chestra as has been in existance In 
the past. However, there is one ad­
vantage td not having any such organ­
ization to accompany the -Clubs,, and 
this is that the men who would play 
in it can now participate in the dances 
(Continued on Page Three.)
S. C. E. CHAPTER WILL 
HOLD SMOKER FRIDAY
The Woman’s Athletic Association 
of Carnegie Institute will hold a 
scholarship dance at the Union on 
the evening of Friday, November 22, 
from nine to twelve.
The committee in charge includes: 
Peg Taylor, chairman; Gipsy Spoors, i 
decorations, and Margaret Markey. 
publicity.
The Teclisons, one of the best or-1 
cliestras on the campus, will be tho 
main feature of the evening.
The decorations will be carried out 
in autumn leaves and colors.
Refreshments will be served and 
the assessment will be one twenty- 
five.
PENST AIHO8 EPPTP
TO COMMITTEE 
OF TRUSTEES
Charles M. Schwab, Capitalist, 
Otto Kahn, Financier, E. M. 
Herr, Manufacturer and J. 
C. Hobbs, Carnegie Alumnus
THISTLE PICTURES 
MUST BE TAKEN
Only Eight Days Left to 
Have Picture Taken at 
Local Studio
Seniors and members of all fra­
ternities Do you realize that you 
have only eight more days in which 
to have your Thistle pictures taken? 
Don’t forget! Only eight more days! 
After November 20 no more pictures 
will be taken in the local studio and 
those who have not had theirs talcon 
by that time will have to go to the 
McClay studio in Wilkinsbui’g, which 
means an added expense to the stu­
dent as well as a world more trouble 
for the Staff. The Staff needs your 
cooperation and needs it badly. Now 
is the time, Room 149 IndustHos is 
the place, Be there at once. The 
studio is open from 10:30 a., m. to 
3:30 p. m.
All men and women who are regis­
tered as Seniors must have their pic­
tures taken whether they expect to 
graduate or not. All active members 
of all recognized fraternities and so­
rorities both social and honorary must 
also be taken. There will he no pic­
tures of fraternity pledges this year. 
All men and women who will grad­
uate from non-degree or short courses 
will he considered as Seniors.
(Continued on Page Two.
Tartan Staff Receives 
Number of Additions
Many Old Members Are Pro­
moted to New Places
With this Issue’Of Tho Tartan a 
reorganized staff begins to function.
A. E. Krough, formerly Alumni Edi­
tor, moves to an associate editor’s 
desk. J. M. Goss fills the position 
vacated by his former chief. It. R. 
Sltzler is made a membor of tho 
editorial staff. All throo men have 
done hard and efficient work, and 
their promotions are mado on a 
basis of merit.
A. groat many names are dropped 
from the list of rep6rtors,. and some 
new ones are added. Of those drop­
ped, some had requested that thoy 
be oxcused from reportorlal work, bo 
cause thoy had no time to devote to 
it; but others are eliminated hocauso 
their assistance has been too erratic 
to be appreciated by the editors.
Worthy candidates from the Sopho­
more and Freshman classes®have 
been appointed to fill the vacancies. 
Those appointed are: E. Tallmadge,
M. Tucker, M. Dutt, R. Hand, C. J. 
Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella. 
Additions to the business staff wero
B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. Kandell.
Elections were made on a basis
of six weeks’ service. If stories had 
been turned in on time during that 
period, and alL assignments had 
been well taken icare of the candi­
date was considered eligible for ap­
pointment.
There are several good reporters 
whose period of service has not 
been long enough to entitle them a 
place on the staff at this time. 
Their names, provided they continue 
to do faithful work, will be added to 
the masthead at the next time that 
the list of reporters is revised, prob­
ably in about six weeks.
The crop of underclass candidates 
for staff positions on The Tartan 
has been unusualLy good this fall. 
The editors are well pleased with 
the prospects of an efficient staff’s 
developing from the material. With 
the assistance of the tyros and their 
more experienced associates, they 
expect to issue a Tartan each week 
which will be equal to and may even 
surpass the numbers of former years.
The Student Chapter, American 
Society of Civil Engineers, will hold 
a smoker Friday evening at 7:30 in 
the Bureau of Mines Building. The 
committee, of which Dave Moskovltz 
is chairman, has arranged a diversi­
fied program which will include re­
freshments.
Invitations have been issued to 
members of the faculty in the Civil 
Engineering Department and to Di­
rector Mott. Special attention will be 
| paid to seeing that the evening does 
not drag. The committee assures 
those who attend that they will have 
no end of entertainment.
Mr. A. E. Crockett, Manager or 
the Bureau of Instruction, Jones & 
(Continued on Page Three)
R. H. WRIGHT LECTURES TO
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
The regular monthly meeting of the 
Carnegie branch of the A, I, 10, E, 
was held Tuesday evening, Nov, 4. 
1924.
The subject for ivfr. Wright's lec­
ture was “Electric Drive for Rolling 
Mills”. The lecture was suplemcntod 
by lantern slides of the various parts 
of a modern steel plant.
All students and faculty who ar 
interested in electrical work should 
not miss the meetings, as all of the 
speakers are very well known. All 
electrical students are especially 
urged to come and meet the faculty 
and the other electrical students.
Watch the bulletin board for, the 
announcement of the next meetiijg.
J. PORTER CHAIRMAN
At the meeting of the Committee 
of the Trustees on tho Carnogie In­
stitute of Technology last Friday, 
four additions to tho committee were 
made.
Mr. Porter was re-elected chairman 
of the committee and Mr. Frew, sec­
retary. The additional men who are 
not members of the Board of Trust­
ees are Mr. Charles M. Schwab, Mr. 
Otto H. Kalin, Mr. E. M. Herr and 
Mr. J. C. Hobbs'
Mr. 'Schwab, the capitalist and the 
most well known figure on the com­
mittee is chairman of the Board of 
tho United States Steel Corporation. 
Besides this, he holds a dictatorship 
in many other large corporations! Ho 
willi bo the main speaker at the Car­
negie Day exorcises which will be 
held at Carnegie Hall, November 21, 
at 10:30 o’clock.
Mr. Kahn is a very prominent | 
banker and financier of New York 
City. He has always been asso­
ciated with institutions of higher 
learning, being a trustee of the 
Massachusetts Instituto of Tech­
nology and of Uutgors College. Ho 
is the patron and godfather of most 
of tho great musical enterprises in 
Now York and holds a directorship 
In tho Convent Garden Opera of Lon­
don. He Is chairman of tho Board 
of Directors of tho Metropolitan 
Opora Company also.
Mr. Herr is prosidont of tho West- 
inghouse Electric & Manufacturing 
Company of East Pittsburgh. Ho 
graduated (from Shoffeld Scientific 
School) of Yale in 1901 and has boon 
associated with tho Wostinghouso 
Company for tho last, IwonLy years.
Mr. J. C. Ilobbs, a prominent Car­
nogie Alumnus, is associated with 
tho Duquosne Light Company of this 
city. He was a membor of tho 
Woodlawn Club and graduated in 
1910 with the dogroo of B. S. in 
Mochanical Engineering.
SONG BOOK STAFF OFFERS HPM M CT ATE 1C
FIVE DOLLARS FOR MARCH J 1 A 1 L lU
Tho Carnegie Song Book Staff, real-1 
ii'.ing tho need for an exclusively "Car­
negie” march, is opening a competition 
for tho writing of suitable music and 
verses. All embryo musicians and 
poets who havo “felt tho urge” are 
requested to submit the product of 
tlieir pens to the Song Book Staff. As 
an inducement tho Staff is offering tho 
sum of five dollars for an acceptable 
march. In addition to this monetary 
award tho successful bard will be im­
mortalized in Carnegie tradition by 
having his effort published in the 
third edition of tho Song Book. All 
contributions should be submitted at 
the Post Office, addressed to tho Car­
negie Song Book Staff.
VICTOR OVER 
TARTANS, 22-7
Nittany Warriors Penetrate 
Center of Skibo’s Line For 
Substantial Gains; Fumbles 
Help State, Distress Plaid
R. 0. T. C. INITIATES 
SYSTEM OF GRADES
Military Department Starts 
Company Competition on 
Grade Basis
Tech Journal Staff 
Moves to New Offices
New Daily Working Schedule 
is Initiated
The staff of the Technical Journal 
moved into Its now offlcos In tho 
Sdenco building, honoath Lecture 
Room 209, yesterday, following a 
smoker in the Commercial clubroom. 
The increasing popularity of tho 
Journal necessitated larger quarters 
and this room proved most adaptable.
Inaugurating a new working sche­
dule, from 1 to 1:20 p. m., has boon 
designated as the office hour. Staff: 
members must report at least onCe 
a week at this time. Those who do 
not report will be ineligible for their 
activity insigna.
This insignia is the reward for two 
years’ work in non-athletic student 
activities. There are at present a 
number of vacancies in the publica­
tion's editorial and business depart­
ments. Those men who have not at­
tained their key can do so by enter­
ing the service of the Journal. This 
service is not restricted to plebes. 
Upper classmen can secure positions 
as well.
Aside from obtaining this key Jour­
nal service gives valuable experience 
to engineering students in writing 
scientific articles. Prospective contri­
butors are wanted for immediate duty 
to aid in the preparation of the next 
issue which will he published last 
of the month.
This month’s offer carries numer­
ous articles, of interest to all and es­
pecially to radio enthusiasts for it 
contains Professor I-Iazelton’s ex­
planation of the Neuf.rodyne systems, 
of which he is the inventor. Profes­
sor Hazelton is {{»member of the fac­
ulty of Stevens’ Institute.
Y TO START RELIGIOUS 
SERVICES IN DORMS
Mr. Davis, secretary of the "’Y”, 
informs us that December (J is to 
he a big day for tho school. The 
“Y" has a surprise for that day 
and are advising everyone to hold 
open the date. Just what the sur­
prise is to bo we cannot say, how­
ever, .watch the next Issue of Tho 
Tartan for further announcement.
'Phe Y. M. C. A. will start their 
regular religious programs for the 
Dormitories in the near future. These 
programs have in former years, 
proved a boon to the school and we 
have every reason to believe they 
will be a success this year. Further 
announcement concerning the exact 
date of the time they will start is 
to be forthcoming next week.
A now system governing inter­
company competition has boon in­
augurated by tho Military Department. 
The system was tried first on Thurs­
day, Novombor Oth, and will be in 
effect on Thursdays during tho re­
mainder of the year. The companies 
will be graded for rapidity and cor­
rectness of forming and Tor atten­
dance. Each absentee will count one 
point against the company standing.
For rapidity in formation and per­
fect attendance, forty points will bo 
allowed. If all tho members of tho 
company are in proper uniform ten 
points additional will bo granted. 
Men in improper uniform will cost 
their company ono point each .in tho 
final rating, 'Thirty points are award­
ed for marching to battalion forma­
tion for adjutant's call. Tho maximum 
number of points that may ho ac­
quired by a. slnglo company is limited 
to eighty.
Tho judges of the new system will 
bo Captain ShorrlU, Captain Lyons, 
¿lieutenant Homonway, Warrant Offi­
cer F. I. Hastings, Sgt. Batchelor 
Cadet Major Knight and Cadet. Adju­
tant Harris—thoy will hand In tholr 
reports togethor with whatever criti­
cisms.thoy may havo, to Captain Sher­
rill oach Thursday morning.
Tho Dopartmont has ruled further 
than tho company will not ho dis­
missed until the blowing of tho wills- 
tlo by the senior officer, tho com­
panies will thou bo assombled and 
may he dismissed on the drill field 
If time doos not permit returning to 
tho point of formation,
It has boon also ordered that com­
panies will full In Immodlatoly after 
tho sounding of assembly on tho 
bugle.
The Innovation of this now system 
lias already caused rivalry among tho 
(Continued on Pago Throo)
Junior Banquet Date 
Set For December 13
Committee Has Not Selected 
Chairman as Yet
One of tho outstanding events of 
the year, the Men’s Junior Banqot, 
Is to bo held within a month. Tho 
date, December 13, is tho only ar­
rangement decided upon by the com­
mittee at this time. The committee 
has been unable to hold a meeting 
to select a chairman owing to tho 
fact that the varing schedules of 
the committeemen make it very dif­
ficult for every member to be pres­
ent.
The" committee consists of Cook 
and Patterson to arrange for a ho­
tel; William'Slmboll and A. E. Thom­
as, publicity, and Bassett and Sea­
man, entertainment.
The hotel has not been selected 
at this date, but in all probability it 
will be in the downtown district.
The Juniors in Science at a meet­
ing last week expressed a desire 
that the banquet be held in a place 
in which they might have the up- 
most freedom or that would not 
“cramp their style.”
Banquets may como and banquets 
(Continued on Page Four.)
SOPHOMORES PLAN STRICT
FRESHMAN INSPECTIONS
Someone must have noticed that 
the Plebes were not being taken care 
of as thoy should be, for the Sophs 
have decided to have regular inspec­
tions conducted by a certain depart­
ment each week. Since the new rul­
ing was made that Inspections could 
not he held between 8:20 and 8:110, 
not many Plebes have been seen pat­
tering about the campus before- 8:20. 
This has broken In on any regularity 
In daily Inspections. Thus, the Plobo 
has walked about with a twinkle In 
his oye, and the Soph with a glitter 
in his.
flu I. now we are to have an ocular 
readjuslment. The Plebes will be 
properly attended to, and the rumor 
that may have started: “The Plebes 
are getlng off easy,” will be a myth. 
If you are a S'oph, see your seclipn 
leader to ascertain when you are on 
the inspection committee. If you have 
time, help out the other departments 
which have fewer Sophomores in 
them.
BEEDE, MEFORT OUT
Curnogie Tech’s high hopes for a 
victory against the Penn State eleven 
wero blasted soon after the game 
started last Saturday. Beaver Field, 
State’s athletic stadium, contained 
about 15,000 witnesses to tho hard- 
fought struggle which ended In a 22-7 
victory for State.
Shortly after Bastinan’s kick-off 
sailed over the State goal line, tho 
first touchdown was made. After see­
ing the powerful Nittany offensive at 
work it obviously became a matter of 
holding the Center-countians to a min­
imum number of touchdowns. State 
gained at will through tho line and 
around tho ends, resorting to the for­
mer method however, for most of 
their advances.
In spito of tho early set-back the 
Plaid rooters, still undaunted, hoped 
for a 7-(> victory as Manby blocked 
Provost’s try for the extra point. This 
hope was soon dispelled when Laffor- 
ty plunged accross tho goal line after 
a Carnegie fumble on tho 22-yard 
marker had given State tho hall.
Tho Plaid offenso was hamporod 
greatly by their toiulancy to fumble 
at critical moments. I-Iowovor, fumb­
ling can offor no oxcuso for defeat, 
for tho Stato team unquestionably 
played tho bettor brand of football.
The second quarter rosolvod itself 
Into a punting duel botwoon Newman 
and Gray. Andorson .Intercepted a 
forward pass on tho State -10-yard 
lino and bogan a dash which brought 
the stands to tholr foot. 1-Ie was 
downed after running 20 yards, A 
fumble resulting from a t'ulco pass 
was recovered by State. After an ex­
change of punts Provost, the big 
tackle, tried a placement kick from.
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
Tartan Gridders Add 
Attraction to Dance
Next Football Dance to Take 
Place on Open Date
Tho weekly foot-bull dances will he 
resumed on Saturday, Novombor 15 
at the Union. Since this 10 but tho 
third dance In the last month, if In 
expected that the students will patron­
ize It In largo nnumbors. You are not 
urged to he prosont because the com­
mittee In charge finds it difficult 
enough to care for the crowds of "Car- 
negleltes” who are Its regular patrons. 
Tho popularity of those dances has, 
for some reason, grown In leaps and 
bounds. Possibly It Is due to the ex­
cellent music furnished, or can II; bo , 
that sonie special foaturo causes the 
attraction?
II’ the latter hypothesis Is correct, 
this week’s dance will not lack that 
attraction Tills being an open dale 
on our football schedule, the news 
loakod out that tho visiting team's 
players have challenged our players 
to a '-Shuffling Contest”, governed by 
collegiate rules, which is to take place 
after the game at 9:15 o’clock in the 
Union. Captain Newman immediately 
accepted the challenge and already 
has engaged the Collegiate Imps for 
practice every night. Ohio is quoted 
as saying, “Although this is the first 
time our boys have worked out to­
gether, I can see the makings of a 
good team, and we should win in jig 
time. Trainer Burt Munhall reports 
a good many tender corns, and that 
Cy Mefort, unaccustomed to the slip­
pery floor, skidded on his face and 
broke his nose. When wired concern- 
(Continued on Page Four)
CARNEGIE GRILL ROOM 
NEARING COMPLETION
The Carnegie Gril'r Room, at pres­
ent under construction in tho Car­
negie Inn building, will soon be com­
pleted and will be a welcomed addi- 
tion^to the Campus. The purposo Is 
to provide a gathering place for Car­
negio men and women where light 
lunches and confeotlonory will bo sold 
at reasonable prices. The project is 
bolng carried by tho Administration 
and Is not a money-making proposi­
tion hut Is monnt to fill a nood for 
such service on the Campus.
There will be seating accommoda­
tions for 100 persons to whom count­
er service will bo available. The 1>III- 
of-faro will bo largely determined by 
popular demand blit will Include sand­
wiches. salads, and hot. and cold 
drinks. A large soda fountain Is be­
ing In tailed and there will be all 
kinds of lino candies and smokes, at 
prices just high enough to cover ex­
penses.
The Grill Tloom will be open every 
day from’seven-thirty in the morning 
until midnight, remaining open even 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO"HE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12. 1924
Ljill
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
! THE VOLCANO !Ì WEEK IN THE
WORLD’S NEWS i
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-classmatter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH.............................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGHE. C. FRAZIER.
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. SitzlerD. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR
FRED T. PHELPS......................................................................................... Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..............................................................................?.............
V. B. SMITH..................................................................................................
...Schenley 9070 
..Franklin 5547-.I
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper, M. Hollinsliead, M. Dutt. E. Tallmadge, M.
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella
Tucker, R. Hand,
ATHLETIC EDITOR
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall. J. F. Harris. J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams 
William Bernardi.
D. M. Davidson.
BUSINESS MANAGER
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER ............................................................................................
CIRCULATION MANAGER
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bäuerle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Carl, B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, H. 
ICandell.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of 
Managing Editor for the make up.
this paper; the
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Office—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Office hours—Daily 12-30- 
1:20.
Jeliosophat! We have a contribu-1 
tion, no, we have two contributions. | 
Eagerly we seize them—what ecstasy j 
—and peruse them. A shadow of sad- j 
ness crosses our brow for we have I 
read our contributions. Indeed by; 
considerable effort we might have j 
done almost as well ourelves.
Surely, if our readers do not great-1 
ly improve upon the editor’s style, he : 
might as well write all his contribu- j 
tions himself and thus cover himself! 
with glory. But the editor is shy and j 
retiring and shall share the applause j 
of the multitude with those’ that may 
prove worthy.
MR. COOLIDGE’S ELECTION
THE BRITISH CABINET
NINE EAHS CARNEGIE !
The spirit exhibited at last week’s game was not the type en­
thusiasts refer to when eulogizing Carnegie. The cheering was worse 
than a Glee Club rehearsal. About six loyal rooters would faith­
fully start with the cheerleader and the rest ,ioin in some time later 
on. Many didn’t even gather sufficient energy to do this.
Though the game did not display Carnegie at her best, the team 
gave all it had and so did the band. The rooters, on the other hand, 
gave only when convenient with the same touching prodigality which 
marks the thrifty housewife who donates old newspapers to the Sal­
vation Army while she might have obtained two cents for every ten 
pounds—had they been properly bundled.
“With wan and drawn faces the shivering students anxiously 
watched their team.” Pictures of some of our rooters would furnish 
sufficient propaganda for a Red Cross drive on behalf of the suffer­
ing Armenians. Most of the freezing innocents warmed up a bit when 
Mohrman made his sensational run and some even ventured to remove 
their hands from their pockets. This daring was soon regretted ap­
parently as they relapsed to their attitude of utter misery and re­
sumed their frigid encouragement.
Carnegie spirit was formerly famous because the rooters were 
as cheerful in defeat as in victory. Now apparently only a winning 
team can rouse any enthusiasm. Much as this sad degeneration of 
morale is to be fought, no amount of ranting can ever cultivate school 
spirit. Loyalty is an inherent quality and it is useless to exhort stik 
dents to display a more active interest. At least, however, they 
may know how their attitude affects others.
MID-SEMESTER MUSINGS
This is the week of mid-semester exams and is, therefore, an 
opportune time to scatter a few preachments on the value and neces­
sity of devoting a little time to books. The grades will undoubtedly 
impress the truth more forcibly than we can ¡ but a few suggestions 
may be applicable even if they arc not acceptable. An average stu­
dent can carry an activity or two, have his fun, and still earn respect­
able grades in all the subjects of a fifty-four unit course.
You may cry out in indignation that this statement is denied by 
the facts in your own case. But listen to the proviso: provided the 
•student does'not loaf. The old axiom emerges as the fitting motto: 
work hard and play hard. Learn to divide your time according to a 
.schedule. Devote an allotted space to each subject, and when the 
period is up, close the books, whether you have the lesson cold or not. 
And omit the parties that play havoc with said schedule. There will 
’l>e many more just as good and all that we ask is a week’s trial. 
It is a fine theory. We never tried it ourselves but we should like 
to hear how it works.
OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS
The recent appointment of new trustees will probably affect the 
students about as much as the election of a new President does the 
average citizen. The interest aroused is even less since the student 
is not even asked which of two candidates he likes the least, for 
which he may be duly thankful.
But that is aside from the subject. Carnegie seems to have been 
particularly fortunate in the selection of her trustees. It is largely 
to their efforts that we are indebted for most of our recent, improve­
ments and the addition to the Board of Trustees of men of such na­
tional prominence as Charles Schwab should sec the realization of 
many long hoped for dreams. _______
To the Editor of the Volcano:
Do as you see fit with these humble j 
contributions. For obvious reasons 11 
prefer to remain unkown.
There is a certain youngish prof. j 
on the campus, who was beleaguered j 
into attending a foot-ball game in the | 
Carnegie Bowl. Someone gave him a 
student ticket which he passed off 
without difficulty. When the band 
struck up “Dear Old Tech” he bor­
rowed a handbook from a Plebe next 
to him. (If he reads this it is hoped 
that he will return said bible.)
The prof sang with the crowd as 
best he could, which might have been 
worse, until he came to the line 
“Where every single fellow is true 
blue.”
“Oh I say” he cried, "I say that’s 
rather tough on the married fellows, 
don’t you think?” The surprising 
thing was that he escaped unscathed 
and dared to tell the tale that evening! 
(the final exclamation mark is the 
editor’s).
A Pittsburgh Matin 
Prelude
Oft, in the early autumn morn,
I rise to greet the new-born day,
While less ambitious stable mates. 
Still pound the unresisting hay.
Interlude 
In sprightly glee I run (o greet 
The peeping sun and breezes sweet, 
And at the window threshold meet 
The couriers of morning.
With simplicity refreshing, I 
Put the good warm overs by.
And, all expectant, rush to eye 
The beauties of the morning.
Alas for me, the only sight 
That strikes my eye in that dim light 
Is of a gray and sooty blight 
Upon the views of morning.
And only then, it seems to me 
That something in my nose must be 
Which stops, sans doute, the free entry 
Of the heavy fog of morning.
Hopes disappointed, back I creep 
To my not too white winding sheet,
To pass in a thick fog of sleep 
The dirty Pittsburgh morning.
Postlude
May some good millionaire endow 
A chair of fogs and their damnation, 
Where knowing profs may learn the 
how
Of mixing morns with sanitation.
BEN ALI QUIPPA.
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY 
NOVEMBER 12, 13, 14, 15
Play—“The Critic”...................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 13
Chapel ......................:.l..............................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 15
Football Dance................ ............................................................9 :00 P. M., Union
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21
Carnegie Day Exercises............................10:20 A. M., Carnegie Music Hall
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22 
Football—Carnegie Marines............................................................Forbes Field
When we entered Carnegie we wero 
given to understand that to bo effemi­
nate was to be an Arts student and 
that the height of effeminacy was a 
Dramat. We derived much secrer 
amusement watching—what seemed 
to us—their original mannerisms.
But times have changed now. It is 
the manly virile engineer who catches 
our attention. No only has ho ex­
panded his trouser legs to gain elbow- 
room as the Maggie Murph shortened 
her skirt, but now lie strides about 
the campus in a rough flannel shirt. 
Red and Black would be the favorite 
combination were these not W. & J.’s 
colors. (We greatfully give thanks 
that Carnegie plaid still remains un­
available as shirting.)
With collar open, his wiry neck ex­
truding, our engineer further gives 
vent to his temperament with high 
boots or unsuspended socks of gro 
tesque design. Since we appreciate 
that this attire is provoked by some 
obscure hankerings after the great 
open spaces, we suggest that a pick 
gracefully looped over the left shoul­
der, might not prove an inappropri­
ate addition to the costume.
Our only sorrow this week is that 
we are not allotted more space. We 
crave our readers indulgence for de­
priving them of the pleasure of read­
ing more but promise that next week’s 
column shall quite excell itself.
To the Tartan:
Will you please let me express 
through your columns my thanks and 
appreciation for all the help and gen­
erous support from the students— 
boys and girls—and the faculty which 
went so far to make Fathers’ Day the 
success it was. Incidentally It gave 
me a lot of pleasure to work with all 
these nice people.
I am already counting on the same 
enthusiastic support next year, in fact 
the kind that Carnegie Tech always 
gives, and with this help I am sure 
that Fathers’ Day will continue to 
;row in its usefulness aci pleasure to 
both faculty and student .body.
Just now, when the day i3 still 
fresh in our minds, I would welcome 
suggestions looking to a Mgger and 
better and more worth-while Fathers' 
Day than even this has been.
Sincerely,
A. J. WURTS, 
Chairman,
Student Welfare.
November 5, 1924.
Editor,
Carnegie Tartan,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Sir:
In an editorial in the last issue of 
the "Tartan” a reference was made 
to the manner in which the new Alma 
Mater was played by the Kiltie Band 
at recent games and “pep" meetings.
The Alma Mater is a composition 
for which we are indebted to J. Vick 
O’Brian, Head of the Music Depart­
ment and under whose personal direc­
tion the song was rehearsed. He ex­
plained that it should be played wlth( 
spirit and pep and not as a hymn or 
anthem, in order to excite enthusi­
asm and loyalty for the school.
No effort has been made on the 
part of the band to "jazz” or synco­
pate the song, merely an effort on 
their part to play it as it was writ­
ten to be played.
Sincerely,
DAVID S. GARBER.
Manager, Kiltie Band.
Now that the "Shouting of the Tu­
mult’’ has died away, we can more 
closely analyze some of the election 
returns in the great Republican vic­
tory. In the Electoral College. Mr. 
Coolidge will have 379 votes, Mr. 
Davis 139, and Mr. LaFollette 13 with 
popular votes of 13,303,11S, 7,970,172 
and 3,847.91)9 respectively. Mr, Cool- 
idge’s election was a landslide, the 
issue at the last seeming the one of 
conservatism and preservation of the 
Constitution versus the radicalism of 
Mr. La Follette. The people in these 
United States have always dreaded 
and evaded the idea of radicalism and 
thus swung the vote to Mr. Coolidge, 
leaving the Democrats with no issue.
It is peculiarly American that the 
fever of heat in our election has 
centered around the election of 
president and never around the mem-
ARTS PLAYS ] [ FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE ]
One in Every Home
It is a touch of irony that this play 
which was written and staged pri­
marily for production outside the j 
Arts Theatre should be one of those | 
in which the School of Drama most j 
satisfactorily fulfills its somotimes a 
little overshadowed educational func­
tion. One of the few criticisms of our 
School which has any validity is the 
occasional observation that wo are 
so preoccupied with the finished per­
formance that we disregard the edu­
cational needs of the performers, 
casting each person for the part for 
which he is already trained or qual­
ified, and considering the public rath­
er than the needs of the school in 
the choice of a play. The criticism is 
after all a mild one, and may bo par­
ried by the observation that produc­
ers interested in a finished product
bers of the House and Senate, where 
actually the laws and policies are 
decided despite Presidential leader­
ship or prestige; and these last few 
years have shown definitely how pow­
erless the Chief Executive is. The 
House seems to be now solid Republi­
can, as does the Senate. The Senate 
figures, however, need more analyz­
ing to make sure of the majority. The 
figures sIioav the Republicans with 53' 
men, 41 Democrats, and 1 Farmer- 
Labor (Sliipstead of Minnesota). Of 
these 53 Republicans, four of them 
are of the La Follette group—La Fol­
lette of Wisconsin, Norris o£ Nebras­
ka, Ladd and Frazier of North Da­
kota, which still gives the Republi­
cans a majority but no one can fore­
cast whether such men as Couzens, 
Hiram Johnson, or Brookhardt will 
vote with the party or against it. The 
chances are that the blocs will be 
less frequent, hut the clear majority 
as shown by the figure quite rapidly 
may disappear.
The probable line-up of the cabinet 
is as yet problematical; but some 
statements may well be made based 
on what few facts that do exist. The 
big four—Stone, Mellon, Hughes, and 
Hoover will be desired to be retain­
ed; but the general feeling is that 
they will not stay permanently. Mr. 
Mellon, it is felt, will only remain 
until his tax plan is put into offect; 
while Mr. Hughes, only upon the like- 
lihood or another International Con­
ference. Business seems to be call­
ing Mr. Hoover, but as yet he has 
made no statement. It is quite evi­
dent that Mr. New of the Post Office 
Department will not be i/ivited to re­
turn as lie is not in harmony with 
tl:e administration policies. Mr. Weeks 
of the Army has not been well for 
some time, and Mr. Davis of Labor 
has his eye on the Governorship of 
Pennsylvania. Little has been said or 
the possibility of • Secy. Works re­
appointment.
With the Conservatives polling a 
large vote in the General Elections 
in England the following cabinet po­
sitions have boon designated:—
Prime Minister—Stanley Baldwin.
First Lord of the Treasury—Stan­
ley Baldwin.
Chancellor of the Exchequer—Win­
ston Churchill.
Secretary for India—Earl or Birk­
enhead.
Colonies—L. C. M. S. Amery.
Foreign S'ocretary—Austen Cham­
berlain.
Health—Noville Chamberlain.
Laljor—Sir Arthur Steel-Maltland.
Board of Trade—Sir Phillip Lloyd 
Greame.
Education—Lord Enlace Percy.
Secretary Tor. Scotland—'Sir John 
Gilmour.
Attorney General — Sir Douglas 
Hogg.
President of the ConnoU nutf Lead-
‘ | of artistic excellence and professional 
“ finish are more inspiring to youth 
than the mere pedagog. But it is in­
teresting to observe the merits and 
shortcomings of a play produced on 
the other principle.
To begin with, Mr. Harry Hamilton 
graduated last year from the play- 
writing department of the School of 
Drama. Several of his plays have 
been already produced by the Arts 
Theatre, and show a growth in con­
ception and in technique •which prom­
ises well for his future work. This 
play is clever in idea, and at times 
genuinely brilliant in dialogue. The 
weak points are in technique—for in­
stance. a certain tendency of the 
characters to run on and off stage 
with bewildering frequehcy as the 
playwright pulls the strings, a little 
too obviously. Certainly this is a 
weakness which Mr. Hamilton will 
best correct through seeing as many 
as possible of his plays produced. The 
School of Drama fulfills an important 
runction in giving its playwrights this 
opportunity.
The cast also was selected with re­
gard to the needs -of the performers. 
Miss Brown, whom we are accustom- 
to seeing in old ladles’ parts (for 
which she has developed an amazing 
technique) here plays a young wo­
man, frankly and refreshingly vtilger. 
Miss Brown’s characterization was ex­
cellent, and speaks well for her ver­
satility. The male lead was played 
by Verner I-Ialden, whose training has 
heretofore been largely in character 
parts. Mr. Halden plays a straight 
lead passably, but not so brilliantly 
as ho had played the cranks and ras­
cals which have heretofore fallen to 
Ills lot. The pnrt of Sammy gave lit­
tle scope for the dellcato liumor in 
which ho has spoclall/.od. One hopes 
that Mr. Halden may play many mdi'o 
straight leads until lie learns to got 
across direct emotion as powerfully 
as ho does the oblique characteriza­
tion. Ho has the ability undoubtedly, 
but horotofore opportunity has boon 
lacking. In this play. Mr. Hainan 
and Miss Brown slighted the emotion­
al element which might havo givon a 
richer human quality to nil the hu­
mor. Thoy saw only the funny side 
of the dependable but modest and 
awkward Sammy and the ex-chorus 
girl was has to force! his proposal. By 
their avoidance of sentimentality, 
they kept the whole ofl'oci or the play 
too hard and bright.
The othor parts wore loss educa­
tionally interesting, being more cast 
for typo. Mr. Albright was a very 
winning young artist. Mr. Perrin and 
Miss Davis did their usual excellent 
character work as the office hoy and 
stenographer, and Mr. Polofllo, our 
votoran character comodlan, was quite 
delightful as Elsie’s crook friend. Miss 
'Sltovons as the stiff old maid was the 
only one or the minor characters In 
a now role, and she made an amusing 
bit of It,
In short, the audlenco has cause to
er of the House of Lords-Marquls thank Mr.’ Wallace tor a very enter-
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
TO PLAY CARNEGIE DAY
or Curzon.
Privy 'Seal—Marquis of Salisbury.
Lord Chancellor—Viscount Cave.
Home Secretary—Sir William Joyn- 
son-Hicks.
Agriculture — Edward Frederick 
Lindley Wood.
First Lord or the Admirality—Wil­
liam Clive Brideman.
War—'Sir. Laming Worthington-Ev- 
ans.
Air Minister—Sir Samuel J. G. 
Hoare.
Westlake —r "I’m disgusted with 
life."
Needham—“Don’t get discouraged. 
Remember the mighty oak—It was 
once a nut, too.”
In the 'PITTSBURGH PRESS of 
Thursday there appeared an inter­
view with a certain Eastern gentle­
man who, inheriting wealth when a 
little boy, has now reached a ripe old 
age and fools that youth should take 
a tip from him and "profit by the ex­
perience of others.” 
it appears that this would-be-advis- 
er of modern youth does not havo 
much faith in those ho is trying to 
teach, which, we may remark in pass­
ing, is an unpardonable sin in any 
teacher. We quote Mr. Field in part: 
“I don’t put any stock in the 
modern girl. 1 don’t believe in 
tlioir fox-trotting and l don’t like 
it. Thoy do too much of It. Girls 
of today would bo much better off 
if they behaved like their grand­
mothers.”
Turning to the youths, Mr. Field 
cuts loose as follows:
“The boys of today, particularly 
the college boys, are very super­
ficial. Thoy don’t know anything. 
They don’t specialize on any sub­
ject., but scatter tlioir studies and 
accomplish nothing ..."
It is really surprising to learn of 
the number of authorities on educa­
tion that are to be found throughout 
the country. In view of their number 
the present stato of our educational 
system is indefensible. Not only are 
constant suggestions being made for 
improvement, but, in general, people 
of Mr. Field’s typo are never given 
an opportunity to try out their pet 
theories.
Surely, Mr. Field does not intend 
to offor this conduct or friend Chester 
as a precopt for ambitious young men 
and women, though one might almost 
suspect that.
So, ‘the modern youth does not spe­
cialize in any subject’ Well, woll, wo 
had boon under the impression that 
the modern youth specialized too 
much. S'udì, too, seoms to have been 
the error of the Now York World 
which makes the following quib:
“Can you Imagino Walter de la 
Maro lecturing before the Car­
negie Institute of Technology in 
Pittsburgh. Wo find it hard, but 
hero It is on our desk in black 
and white."
With some astonishment wo road 
lator on how Mr. Field had an ac­
quaintance somowlmt older than him-
self about whom our friend’s mother 
remarked: “Chester will nevor amount 
to anything. 1-Ie plays poker till all 
hours, sleeps all morning and has for 
friends all these ward politicians." 
Howovor. we are told, Chester be­
came the tweuty-first president of tlio 
United States.
Perhaps the gist of it all is that most 
of tlio people so anxious to offor ad­
vice to the youths of today find the 
oars of tlieir audience closed because 
they havo nothing worth while to 
offer. At Carnegie, there are continu­
ally changes and modification being 
made in the methods and materials 
used in classes, but we havo reason to 
bo thankful that not everyone who by 
his own or his father’s effort achieves 
financial independence is offered the 
chance to try out his theorios on us.
Just why so many people should 
feel it incumbent upon them to offer 
tlioir suggestions and advice ill-pre­
pared and unsolicited, it is hard to 
say, but wo believe that Mr. Field Is 
entirely mistaken in everything ho 
says.
Speaking for Carnogio in particular 
and colleges in general we suggest 
that: 1. Coeds are not scatterbrained 
and we much prefer that thoy should 
not go back to the status of their 
grandmothers. 2. College boys are 
not superficial except to the super­
ficial observer. 3. The authorities 
everywhere are very busily engaged 
in preventing the danger of over­
specialization on the part of students. 
4. Literature of today is not all sexy 
and nonsensical, and; 5. We dont be- 
Hevo in playing poker till all hours 
of the morning, which is the reason 
than so few of us do it.
A great deal has been said about 
the foreigner criticizing our educa­
tional system and some of thorn havo 
been terrible, but none or them have 
been so hopelessly antodated and 
sonsoloss as is this contribution by 
Mr. Fiold. May the powers that bo 
always preserve us Trout roformers of 
tills typo.
and wish to liolp make this yoar’s 
Thistlo tlio best ever, do your stuff 
NOW, not 'tomorrow but NOW.
Miss Hughes—"This is tlio third 
timo you havo loolcod on Dwight’s pa­
per."
Herman Owosnoy—“Yes maam, ho 
doosn’t write very plainly.’
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, it A. M.
Craig Restaurant
Tho1 placo1 whore all tlio follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
tainlng production, and tho play 
wrlglil and cast havo ovon moro cause 
to thank lilin for glving thom oppor 
timity* to do what thoyneed for thelr 
development—tho sort of oppòrtunlty 
for whicli we all come to thè School 
or Dramn.
ALLINE GREGORY.
THISTLE PICTURES
MUST BE TAKEN
(Continued From Page One.)
The Staff would appreciate It If the 
presidents of all Senior classes and 
ail fraternities would urge thxjir mem­
bers to report at the studio Immedi­
ately. K you are loyal to Carnegie
The Student Council
OFFICERS
The Carnegie Symphony Orchestra 
will make its first appearance of this 
season on November 21, at the Car­
negie Day exercises in the Music Hall.
While no definite calendar for con­
certs has as yet been arranged, there 
is a possibility of the Orchestra being 
able to carry through a season simi­
lar to that of two years ago. It will 
be remembered that, during the con­
cert season of that year, through the 
patronage of Pittsburgh friends of the 
Institution, a fund was created which 
enabled the Symphony Orchestra to 
present four suits of formal concerts 
at the Carnegie Music Hall, and, in 
addition, to give several afternoon 
concerts in the Pittsburgh public 
schools. This year, however. It lias 
been decided to limit appearance« to 
evening concerts in the Music Hall.
The policy of the Department of 
Music, which it has always maintain­
ed, is, not to limit membership in the 
orchestra to students of music, but 
to give to any student of sufficient 
talent, opportunity to display his abil­
ity for symphonic playing.
I President—Milo Matter. 4921 Forbes Street...........................................Schenley 0G59
j Vice President—V. S. Mollenauer, 4929 Forbes Street......................Schenley 9122
Secretary—Elizabeth Yohe, 34 Southern Avenue...........................Lafayette 0953-.T
Treasurer—M. D. ICallfelz, 4807 Baum Boulevard...............................Schenley 9285
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Senate President—Mary Stuempfle, 4916 Forbes Street.........    ^ohpnley 9079
Senate Treasurer—Edith Warren, 5141 Woodlawn Avenue... .Schenley 0341-R 
Senior President—Helen Gillespie, 324 Olive St., McKeesport.... McK. 2156-W 
Senior Representative—Bernice Rentz, 4916 Forbes Street..........Schenley 9079
College of Engineering.
¡Senate President—D. A. Gardner, 5814 Forbes Street................
Senate Treasurer—Jojin M. O’Connor, 4732 Center Avenue...
Senior President—George E. Slye, 5549 Forbes Street.............
Senior Representative—C. H. James, 5218 Fifth Avenue...........
Tho Slngor Pen ana Gift Shop In 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea­
sonable prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dlthrldge and Bayard Street» 
Dr. Frederlok C. Nau, Pastor.
Bible Class ...............................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 
League of Youth at (5:30 P. M.
Damo D—
“Do you roiilly think Muit u 
{{olid pencil lutlpii yon lo do boiler work?"
Pythias—
"I know It dònni Why, I’m 
«von alii« to rond my own 
handwriting, now that I'vo 
iitartod UN I UK a Dlxon'ii Eldorado I”
ÌWEKIN
“Me truss ter drawingpendi 
17 lead*—all dealer
____Hazel 9422
.Schenley 9392
___Hazel 3320
.Schenley 339!)
College ofl Fine Arts.
Senate President—O. B. Newman, 216 McGill Hall....................
Senate Vice President—Margaret Taylor, 5052 Forbes Street.
Senate Treasurer—J. A. Ropp, 4929 Forbes Street......................
Senior President—Iloffer Stood, 254 Bellefleld Avenue..............
Senior Representative—V. S. Mollenauer, 4929 Forbes Street.
Speeding Up Production.
An old Chinaman, delivering laun­
dry in a mining camp, heard a noise 
and espied a huge brown bear sniffing 
his tracks in the newly fallen snow.
“Huh!” he gasped. -“You likee my 
tlacks, I makee some more.”—Ex.
College of Industries.
Senate President—M. D. Kallfelz, 4807 Baum Boulevard...........
Senate Treasurer—D. V. Bcede, 624 Clyde Street.........................
Senior President—A. E. Meilor, 630 Clyde Street......................
Senior Representative—A. S. Andrews, 920 St. James Street,.
.Schenley 9068 
.Schenley 9063 
.Schenley 9122 
.Schenley 9102 
.Schenley 9122
.Schenley 9285 
.Schenley 9401 
.Schenley 9189 
.Montrose 4799
Women's Athletic Association.
President—Rose Morin, 3454 Forbes Street.......................Schenley 2199
Men’s Athletic Association.
Representative—
Nora Willetts
Assistant Secretaries. 
Helen PiersonJosephine Day
Remington Portable
Every Feature Common to the Big Machines
Yet it is so small that it fits in a case only four 
inches high.
There are six good reasons why the Remington 
Portable is the recognized leader—in sales and 
popularity.
They are:
Durability am! Reliability 
Compactness anti Portability 
Four-Row Standard Keyboard 
Ease of Operation 
Beautiful IVork—Always 
Universal Service
Price, complete with case, #60. Easy payment 
terms if desired. >
Call in and let us show you the many advan­
tages of a Remington Portable,
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Cnrnegic Tuch Post Office
J. A. DOUGHERTY 
Care Carnegie Tech Post Office or 
254 Bellefleld Avenue 
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
t
iz<
tri
tie
api

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. NOVEMBER 12, 19ZTHE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------—
M"! PLAID ATHLETICS
4*
i
PLEBES ANNEX WIN VOL.XX.IN o8CX L.AA FOR FIRST TIME A.R8AE G8 STNCI.U8F
Defeat Strong Steubenville 
High Team in Thrilling 
Contest, 21-3
The Plebes defeated Steubenville 
High Saturday by a score of 21-3 at 
Steubenville, this being the first game 
the Plebes won this year and the val­
ley champions have lost for three 
years. All of Carnegie’s points come 
from touchdowns by Glosskloss and 
Weaver, goal from touchdown by 
Johnson, and a safety.
The referee didn’t quite understand 
Carnegie’s plays penalizing them sev­
eral times and finally calling back a 
45 yard run by Moorehead. The offi­
cial claimed the Plebes had a man in 
motion when the ball was passed. 
This made our team over cautious, 
hindering one offensive, and gave 
Steubenville a chance to score a field 
goal from the 40-yard line. The first 
half ended 3-0 with Steubenville on 
the long end.
After Jimmy Anderson had talked 
things over with the boys, they came 
back with the traditional Carnegie 
spirit. and literally played rings 
around Steubenville, making twice as 
many first downs as the 'Steubeners. 
The line plunging of Hess and the 
end runs by Moorehead and Grossk- 
los could not be stopped, while 
Schangling played his best game or 
the season, both on the offense and 
on the defense. Neff also starred in 
the second half, especially on the de­
fense.
The first score came in the third 
quarter when Grosskloss was tackled 
one yard from the goal line but 
stretched the ball over the goal line. 
Johnson missed the try for goal.
In the same period, Weaver caught 
a 40-yard pass for Sebastian and 
raced for a touchdown. Johnson made 
the point after touchdown, putting the 
score and 13-3 at the end of the third 
quarter.
But the young Tartans were not 
done yet. After two attempts at tho 
line, Grosskloss circled left end for 
his second touchdown, but Johnston 
missed goal, on the kickoff, Fuzzy 
Blackburn touched the ball on the 
five-yard line, and then inadvertent­
ly touched it down behind the goal 
line after it had rolled over the line, 
giving the Plebe a safety and two 
points. That finished the scoring for 
the day and the game ended shortly 
afterward.
Several men beside those mention­
ed played a good game especially 
Fitzgeral who replaced Moorhead.
The Plebe team got quite a thrill 
from a local paper’s, bulletin board
Plans are being laid to have fresh­
man and varsity swimming teams, 
and. practice will probably begin in 
the near future. Monday, November 
17, is the scheduled day for the first 
meeting of all candidates, both fresh­
men and upperclassmen.. It is urged 
that all who are interested in swim­
ming will turn out for this meeting, 
because a great deal depends on this 
turnout as to the future plans of a 
varsity swimming team/
Carnegie has been fortunate in get­
ting a new gymnasium, and equally 
as fortunate in getting a pool equal 
to and much better than most of the 
college and university pools in the 
country.
This summer a very capable swim­
ming instructor was obtained to teach 
and help organize and coach a Car­
negie swimming team. Mr. Beukema 
is very interested in seeing Carnegie 
have a good team and is therefore 
anxious to have a large turn-out at 
the first meeting to be held in tho 
New Gym. November 17, at -1:30 
o’clock.
A bulletin board and a place to 
sign up will be posted in the Gradu­
ate Manager’s office, and all interest­
ed in the swimming team are asked to 
go to the office and sign up.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
FOOTBALL SQUAD 
GOES INTO HIDING
WE MUST ADMIT
State was too good for us Saturday. Our boys fought just us hard as 
they knew how, but the Lions were unquestionably a. little better. Just as 
our scouts had feared, and our coaches suspected they would. State tore 
through the center of our line almost at will. Gains over tackle and around 
ends were not so frequent.
But in justice to our boys and our team it must be said that the Tartans 
did not present their strongest lineup. Beede was unable to get into the 
fray at all, while Goodwin was not in the best of shape. Mefort was also 
unable to participate, and Case had to leave after three minutes of play. 
In addition, the Lions got the breaks.
We are not complaining. We got licked, and with the exception of some
holding on the part of the husky State linemen, we got licked fairly. The
number of first downs made by each team conclusively 'shows that. But
Beede, the key to all of our deceptive plays, could not possibly have been
used without permanently injuring our chances against the Marines and 
Notre Dame. The same speaks for Mefort.
The policy of the coaches in conserving these men for the last two 
battles of the year insures one thing—those games will be well worth seeing. 
The Pitt game was a great one to watch—but wait until you see the Notre 
Dame-Carnegie classic.
GOOD SPIRIT PREVAILS
Despite the fact that Carnegie has trounced Pitt twice in succession in 
football since resuming athletic relations, the best of spirit exists between 
the two institutions. We believe the feeling of keen rivalry would not now 
be so intense had the Panther won in each instance. Try as they might, 
neither school would have as much respect for each other as they have now. 
As it is the stage is set for the great battle of the year in Pittsburgh when 
the Tartans meet the Panther in Pitt’s new stadium next season.
In the meantime, the Carnegie gridders will be the guests of Pitt at the 
W. & J.-Pitt game next Saturday, and at the State-Pitt game on Thanksgiv­
ing Day, while the Blue and Gold warriors will in turn be the guests of the 
Plaid management at the Marines-Carnegie battle on November 22 and at the 
Notre Dame-Carnegie contest on November 29.
Some Interesting Anecdotes 
Result From the Trip 
to Mountains
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces a series of eight Sat- j 
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 o’clock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
Invest Your Savings in Bonds
For personal investment thcro nre 
few things that offer an many ad­
vantages as good bonds. Safety, 
income and marketability are tho 
factors that measuro investment 
values and in theso respects good 
bonds aro rated high.
Invest your money in bonds. 
Whether you can afford ono or 
many, you will find hero intelligent 
interest in your requirements and 
a sincere desire to provide invest­
ments that -will fit your particular needs.
And remember, you can buy good 
bondB in denominations as low as $100.
Mellon National Bank
which reported the Varsity-State score 
as 22-7 in favor of Carnegie, but as 
all things based on false foundations, 
it was short lived.
The lineup:
Plebes—21. Steubenville Hi—3.
Langfitt .............L. E...................... Bruce
Allen ....................L. T...................... Henry
Cormack ..............L. G............ West Lake
Neff .........................C........................... Bell
Johnston .............R. G.............. Rebucca
Marshall ...........R. T................. Demayo
Weaver ...............R. E....................... Cox
Sebastian ..........Q. B................ Needham
Moorehead.........L. H............ Blackburn
Schaughency .. R. H.................. Rarigli
Heis ....................F. B...................... Welsh
Touchdowns—Grosskloss 2, Weav­
er. Boal from touchdown—Johnston. 
Field Goal—Cox. Safety—Carnegie. 
Substitutions. Fishbeiu for Johnson, 
Grosskloss for Moorehead, Venger for 
Marshall', Andrisek for Fishbein, 
Moorehead for Grosskloss, Johnson 
for Andrisek, Fitzgerald for Moore­
head, McClelland for Langfitt, Steu­
benville substitutions—Ricards for 
Needham.
Score by quarters:
Plebes ...................... 0 0 13 8—21
Steubenville ........... 0 3 0 0— 3
Time of periods—15 minutes. Ref­
eree—Patton, Umpire—Myers.
ATTEND THE PLEBE GAMES
It certainly was discouraging for the Freshman team to play to a crowd 
of about 50 persons who attended the California game a couple of weeks 
ago. We realize that the Plebes have not been going great guns this season, 
due to various reasons, but that should be no sign for lack of support for the 
team. At least every Plebe in school should take it upon himself to back his 
team. The Plebes should turn out in a body for the Plebe games, should have 
their own cheer leaders and work up some enthusiasm. At State College 
this is compulsory. Every upper classman also, who can should attend 
those games as well as the varsity games.
The Plebe team has shown steady improvement all season. Last Satur­
day they defeated the strong Steubenville High team, a team which had 
not been defeated for three years. Next Saturday the Plebes meet the 
strong Potomoc State Normal School team in the last game of the season 
in the Carnegie Bowl. The game will be called at 10:30 in the morning. 
Let’s turn out in force and give the Plebes our support.
WADDELL AND MARKS
From various sources praises have been heaped upon Coaches Waddell 
and Marks for the capable manner in which they handle the Slcibo gridders 
in the absence of Head Coach Steffen. And these praises are not amiss. 
We believe Waddell and Marks have done as much with tho material at 
their command as was possible. They have the utmost respect and confi­
dence of their men, they know football and are always striving to give the 
boys the benefit of their knowledge.
We know we do not have the best team in the country; wo know our 
hoys are not unbeatable; we know they aro not of giant stature, nor super­
men individually. But they have the true Carnegie spirit, they are in good 
standing scholastically, and they are taught daily on the football flold by men 
who have high ideals of sportsmanship, and tho interests of Carnegie at 
heart. Our hats are off to Waddell and Marks.
Why, O Why, O Why?
Doctor: "Gargle your throat twice
a day in peroxide.”
Sweet young Thing: “But why
should a brunette like me have blonde 
tonsils?”
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
We Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hats Cleaned. Shoes Shined. 
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
WRIGLEYSlifter every meal /
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a 1-a-s-t-i-u-g benefit as
LUXENBEMG
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Pythias
SCHENLEY HOTEL 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
NOVEMBER 14th and 15th
NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.
841 BROADWAY, NEW YORK
The Fairbrook Country Inn is not comparable to the Mountain View Inn 
if we are to judge by results shown in games following brief sojourns to 
each place by our football squad.
There is a sign “Closed for season” placed over the gateway to the Inn. 
That does not mean the season for “snipe hunting,” however.
The boys went on a hike Friday morning and had a busy timo dodging 
bullets from the guns of amateur hunters in tho woods'. Sovoral hunters, 
upon being questioned, denied that thoy had shot any stray cows In tho 
Bald Eagle Mountains, as was rumored in Pittsburgh.
“We’ll like you better little lass, 
If you give us more apple-sass.”
No, we are not trying to wax poetic, or anything like that, 
is what one of the boys said at lunch Friday.
This simply
MARINES AND NOTRE 
DAME GAMES REMAIN
We saw what we claim to be the smallost pig in the world on a farm 
very close to the Inn. He was so small you could pretty noarly put him 
Into your vest pocket.
Ask some of tho boys to tell you how many uses one of our guards can 
find for a handkerchief. They’ll tell you.
The wild joy expressed by the Plebe gridders at Steubonville wlion they 
heard that Carnegie had trimmed State 22-7 was short-lived. Thoy soon 
learned that it was the other way around. ___________________________
PENN STATE IS VICTOR
OVER TARTANS, 22-7
(Continued From Page Two.) 
the 40-yard line wnich went wide, and 
the half ended 13-0.
When the teams trouea out on the 
field again, Donohue had replaced 
Bastian. Harmon kicked-off to Laifer- 
ty, the ball coming to rest on the 
State 20-yard line. The Lions now 
began a march down the field. When 
within the shadow o£ the goal the 
Plaid team rose to its fullest strength 
and held for three downs. O11. the 
fourth down with one yard to gain, 
the unexpected happened in the form 
of an end run, Baker racing around 
the Tartan’s right end for a touch­
down. Good judgement in calling this 
play was evidenced by the fact that 
Baker was absolutely free on his 
dash. He had no interference and 
no tacklers were pressing him close­
ly. Kristof broke through and block­
ed the try for the extra point.
At the close of the third p^rido, Pro- 
yvost seemed to get the range o£ the 
Plaid goal posts. He tried another 
placement from the 32-yard line 
which dropped squarely between the 
uprights making the score 22-0.
Mohrman was substituted for Har­
mon at the start of ,the final quarter, 
and the most exciting moment of the 
game presented itself. Mohrman In­
tercepted Bergman's pass and with 
the help of some Interference raced 
65 yards for a touchdown. The Car­
negie stands were in an uproar. New­
man kicked goal from a placement. 
In the final minutes of play, Nev/man 
and Donohue worked a pass for a 
gain of 20 yards giving Carnegie its 
initial first down. liable made 10 more 
on the next play. The game ended 
22-7 with the ball in State’s hands’
The fact that Beede, the sensation­
al fullback, was not . in condition to 
play because of an ankle injury, 
greatly hampered the work of the Tar­
tans on the offensive. Beede is a 
wonder at feinting in the end-around 
and spinner plays. Neither Mohrman 
nor Newman couid come up to Ills 
standard, with the result that the 
plays lost much of their effectiveness. 
Carnegie did not make a single first 
down until forward passes were tried 
in the last period. On the other hand 
State made twenty-five first downs. 
Beede might have been of help even
with an injured ankle, but It was 
thought best not to risk further in­
jury which might put him out of the 
gamo for the remainder of tlio sea­
son.
There will be no game next Satur­
day, so the Tartan gridders will have 
two weeks in which to get into shape 
for the strong Quantlco Marines. All 
of the cripples ought to be in shapo 
for that contest, in which case the 
Marines will be in for a busy after­
noon.
The line-up:
Car. Tech—7. Penn State—22.
Goodwin .............L. E......................... West
Kristof ...............L. T...................... Filack
Anderson ...........L. G....................... House
Manby ..................C.............. (C.) Gray
Cass ........................R. G............ McCann
Yoder ...................R. T................ Prevost
Hable ......................R. E............... Wilson
Bastian .............Q....................... Lafferty
Newman (C.) ..L. H............ Watson
Wertenberger ..R. H................. Helbig
Mohrman ...........F.................. Bergman
Score by v~riods:
Carnegie Tech------- 0 0 0 7— 7
Penn State .............. 6 7 9 0—22
Morpheus had relinquished his 
tenacious hold upon the various mem­
bers of the squad at various hours, 
and at S:*lf>, Thursday morning they 
were all at the East Liberty station 
and ready to leave for State Colloge, 
Pa. The train arrived and the coach 
provided was quickly filled.
Bert Munhall, the “sylph like" 
trainer, occupied the greater part of 
the aisle and also two chairs. This 
gave him a corner on the market and 
incidentally congested traffic in both 
directions.
Much interest was incited by a 
game which Bill Peet and Bob Wad­
dell started. Its origin dates back to 
men. The game involves numerous 
squares of cardboard and is charac­
terized by much nonsensical discus' 
sion. At times much dissatisfaction 
is evinced by one player or another, 
this feeling being registered. by cast­
ing the cardboard squares upon tho 
table. The remaining players contin­
ue until their differences are settlod. 
Arguments are plentiful. It would ap­
pear that Bob Waddell had taken a 
course in law, for his arguments 
seemed so convincing that Bill Pete, 
Bert Munhall and Harry Camins gave 
in to him with various stages of good 
grace—often with tears of extromo 
joy emtnating from their brows. BOY 
HOWDY! It sure must have hurt.
The remainder of the trip was un­
eventful. and the Fairbrook Country 
Club was reached and immediately 
taken possession of.
At this historical landmark, wo 
seekers in tho land of darkness found 
that this region was not tho proverbi­
al land of plenty—at least the moals 
did not show It.
It was hero also that tho education 
of one, Chalupa, a membor of tho 
squad was attompted. Bo It known 
that ho was not a woodsman, either 
by habit or design, and did not know 
of tho charactor or habits of tho olu- 
sive “snipe.” For his benefit a lengthy 
lecture was glvon by Professors 
liable, Cass, .Mofort and Cook. Tho 
knowlodgo of those worthy colloagUGs 
on this subject was very profound; 
particularly Prof. Mefort. who, It Is 
rumorod had an encounter with ono 
two year's ago in the Bamo roglon. In 
fact tho Information was so complete 
and onlightonlng that Chalupa folt 
that I10 ooHld successfully surround 
a few “snipes” and capture thorn In 
the interest of science. Enthusiasm 
reigned and tho hunt was planned and 
as quickly earrlod out, Clmltipa, as 
Chief Hunstmnn, took his position on 
a distant hlllsldo with a sack and 
lantern as his only companions. Ills 
vigil was a lorioly one, as 110 “snipes” 
j came Into sight, duo possibly to tlio 
fact that tho othor hunters hud gone 
homo and to bed' Instead of boating 
tho bush. After long hours the 
mighty hunter returned with an emp­
ty sack and a low burning lantern. 
However, with his arrival l boro camo 
a strong odor of Skunk. II Is rumor- 
od that his lesson must have boon 
lacking in details to such an extent 
that his subsequent mistake occur rod.
Chalupa wishes to state that ho was 
componsatod In-as-mucli as ho had a 
lantern to guide his returning steps, 
whereas the othors had to find their 
way In tho dark. Who knows?
Last year our foot-ball schedule 
makers realised that an open date 
would be necessary in Carnegie’s 1921 
schedule, one of tho toughest ever 
tackled by a Carnegio foot-ball team. 
Next Saturday, November 15 was 
choosen as the open date on tho 
schedule. This date was loTt open be­
cause a logical break in the schedule 
would bo immediately after tho Wash* 
Jeff, Pitt and Penn State and direct­
ly before tho tougn games with the 
Quantlco Marinos and Notre Dame.
The Quantico Marines come to Car­
negie with a big reputation in East­
ern foot-ball circlos. They boast of 
a powerful and rugged team capable 
of putting up a good game with any 
team in the country., Carnegie must 
play the best football that she is cap­
able of in order to be returned a, vic­
tor. Public sale of tickets begins No­
vember 17, box seats selling for $2.50 
and reserved seats for $2.00. The gaine 
will be called November 22 at 2:30.
On Novembor 29, Carnegie plays 
the best team in tho country. Notre 
Dame comes to Pittsburgh with the 
best record of any team in the United 
States. With decisive victories over 
Army, Princeton, Georgia Tech and 
Wisconsin, dopestors vote the Notro 
Dame team as tho best in the coun­
try. Carnegie will have its hands full 
that afternoon. Public sale of tickets 
for that gamo will begin November 
24, resorved soats soiling for $2.50 
and box soats for $3.00. The game 
will begin at 2 o’clock.
Those two games will bo played' at 
Forbos Field, where the largo crowd 
that is coming to the game may bo 
taken care of. Student tickets will 
be good for teats in tho student’s soc- 
tion. Let’s all come out for tho gamos 
and coniplote our most successful 
season with sonio high-powered cheer­
ing.
TARTAN HARRIERS 
BOW TO PENN STATE
Barclay Noses Out Slcibo 
Captain at Finish—Score 
is 19 to 36
The varsity closs-country team was 
defeated in its efforts to out-run the 
Penn State harriers, in a meet hold 
before the big game, which resulted 
in a 19-36 victory for tho State Col­
lege men.
Ono of the big surprises of tho run 
was that our best runner, Dykoman, 
came in second. Ho got away to a slow 
start and Barclay. t.he winner of the 
race, was doing his best from start 
to finish.
TI10 course at State College is much 
more level than the Schenley Park 
course, and consequently a much fas­
ter ono. The course covers six miles 
over the golf links.
TI10 order of the 111011 as they came 
in is as follows:
1. Barclay, State. 2. Dykoman, Car­
negio. 3. Fouracre, State. 4. Stewart, 
Sbate. 5. Johnson, State. 6. Chandors, 
State. 7. Reise, S'tale. 8. Decker, 
State. 9. Bright, Carnegie. 10. Peck, 
Carnegie. 11. Ewing, Carnegie. 12. 
De Jesus, Carnegie. 13. Ilimes, Car- 
nogio. 14. Foller, Carnegie. 15. Lock- 
art, Carnegie. The time was 25:59.
FOR. FRESHMEN ONLY
Tho attitude of many of the 011 tor- 
lng Freshmen is that thoy will bo 
unable to go out for any of tho col- 
logo activities bocauso of tlioir stud­
ios. Ono Freshman bolilovod that all 
of his tlmo would bo takon in getting 
started, and tlmt lie would not par­
ticipate In anything until possibly 
tho socoml term whon ho would find 
If he had onough spare tlmo.
This attltuKlio, provalont in ontiroly 
too many minds, Is unfortunate. I11 
tho first place tho faculty arranged 
the program to give tho student tlmo 
for active participation . in some 
lino, unross tho stltlldont was work­
ing or was unusually slow or dull. 
The student on entering collogo 
should go out for whatovor ho 1» in­
terested In, and thon ll' ho finds 
lator that he has not sufClclent tlmo, 
It will be easy onOuigh to drop. Much 
oaslor to drop It, than to delay go­
ing) out and then lator whon ho finds 
ho has tlni'O, try for a place that has 
already boon secured by another.
Tho California Tech advlsos each 
Freshman to participate In at least 
ono activity. Both, the student and 
the Institute aro bonofitted.—Tho 
California Tech.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Ocoaalono.
All now and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MION TAILOR 
606 Stnto Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pltuburuh, Pa.
Plebes Outclassed
Tho Penn State Fresnmen made a 
clean ' sweop of Saturdays evonts by 
defeating the Carnegio Plebes in a 
fast cross country run before the 
football game. TI10 State Freshmen 
nettod IS, and the Plebes 41 points.
TI10 yoarling teams covorod a simi­
lar course to that' of the varsity, but 
a much shorter one. TI10 latter course 
Is about three miles in longth.
In this Covert, tho fourth man in, 
was ruled out. for cutting corners.
TI10 mon camo in as follows:
1. Haskins, Stato. 2. Mansfiold, 
State. 3. Magargd, State. 4. Covort, 
Stato. 5. Hobo, .Carnegio. t>. Klrsclc, 
Carnegie. 7. Crawford, CarnogiO. S. 
FItzglbbon, Stato. 9. Taylor, Stato. 10. 
Guortz, State. 11. Sponsoller, Car- 
noglo. 12. Jacobs, Carnoglo, 13. Froy, 
State.
R. O. T. C. INVITES SY8TEM OF 
GRADES
companlos. It is hopod that those 
taking tho lt. O. T. (!. eourso wiil 
continue to show tho samo splrlt of 
oompol.lt.lon. The offlcors are dolng 
thoir utmost tokoop tholr companlos 
arnong tho loadors and tho mon are 
aldlng thom In no little way hy hoing 
on band proporly drossod.
Judglng from thè Interest manifost* 
od so far on tho pari. oC thè studont. 
body ll. iieems that tho no\v systoni 
wlll he of groat merli;.
CLEE CLUB REHEARSAL
REMAIN8 UNHAMPERED
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
which follow tho concerts.
Speaking of dances, tho Armlstleo 
Daonco which was fostered by the Mu­
sical Clubs, was a huge success. Ohio 
Newman sang beautifully, tho quar­
tet rondored several numbers, and' 
tho orchestra played better than eve'*»’ 
boforo. Tho fact that a holiday wou)‘° 
follow immediately after the dam 
helped put pop Into the dancers, annj 
the party was a real thing.101
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Substitutions: State—Gier for Hol- 
big, W. Baker Tor Gier, Light for Wat­
son, Artelt. for Wilson, Pritchard for 
Lafferty, Hays for Weston. Carnegie 
Tech—Guthrie for Cass, Harmon for 
Mohrman, Donohue for Bastian, Mohr­
man for Harmon, Cass for Guthrie, 
Bastian for Newman. State scoring: 
Touchdowns—Bergman, Lafferty, W. 
Baker. Tries for points—Prevost.1 
Field goal—Prevost. Carnegio Tech 
scoring: Touchdown — Mohrman.
Tries for points—Newman. Time of 
periods—15 minutes. Officials: Ref­
eree—Daugherty, W. & J. umpire— 
McCarthy, Germantown. Linesman— 
Ed Thorpe, Lafayette. Field judge— 
Taggert, Manhester.
Y
OU hav to lcno collei men 
and what they want oefore 
you can bild ohoe« to «uit them. 
The new John Ward FalJ Style» 
fit their needa with the name 
snug satisfaction that the shoes 
wil fit their feet.
On Display By
MR. D. T. KIRKPATRICK 
—at—
SKIBO INN 
NOVEMBER 21
IMCOB.POS'.A.'niD f
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark 
and Philadelphia Address for Mail 
Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City
A. S. C. E. CHAPTER WILL
HOLD SMOKER FRIDAY
(¦Continued From Page One) 
Laughlin Steel Corporation, gave an 
interesting address to the Student 
Chapter, on Wednesday, November 
5th, taking as his subject “High 
Lights.”
Mr. Crockett emphasized the im­
portance of character in the maice up 
of a man and compared the present 
day salesman with the salesman of 
former years to bring out this point. 
He also stressed the need for tech­
nical skill and stated that inasmuch 
as only about four percent of a man's 
life was spent in acquiring a college 
education he should watch to see that 
Ms time Is not being wasted.
The speaker mentioned his own ex­
perience In attending night school In 
New York City when working hours 
were longer than at the present time 
and when It was often Impossible to 
secure a meal before tho classes be­
gan.
In concluding his talk Mr. Crockett 
stated that nothing but willingness to 
learn and to work would carry a man 
to success.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
EHEM men,
THE TARGUM
“We had a contest to decide the 
prettiest girl in our graduating class 
of 400."
“How did it turn out?”
“One girl got two votes.”—Louis­
ville Courier-Journal.
Hair Raising Events
—muss the hair unless a few 
drops of GLO-CO have been 
used, It keeps the hair 
combed all day; pleasing, 
refreshing; a liquid tonic.
At dru# countorii and barbor »hop« ovoryv/horu.GLO-CO
(Gloss-Comb)
THE ORIGINAL 
LIQUID 
HAIR DRESS
Send for S ampio Bottle 
Mail coupon and IJJi.ior «nnorouii 
trini botilo. Nornmny Product« Co.. 
0511 McXinloy Av., Lou Angelón, Otti.
Nomo..........................................' -

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE)FOURrHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1924
NOTRE DAME GAME 
TICKETS ON SALE
ICLAN NEWs'T^atliers' Crowd FORMER GRADUATE Three Day A\eeting ---------------------i l£SS xhan Expected: BEING PROMOTED For H and V Men
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
Early Demand For Tickets 
Indicate Huge Crowd — 
No Book Rebate
The tickets for the Notre Dame 
game will go on sale a week before 
the game. Any one desiring reserved 
seats for this game should make ap­
plication as soon as possible. Even 
now, the applications for tickets are 
pouring into the Graduate Manager’s 
Office rapidly. The demand is greatly 
exceeding the demand of former 
years. Consequently, the early reser­
vations will get the pick of the tick­
ets. The reserved seats will sell for 
$2.50 and box seats for $3.00. Stu 
dent tickets are not transferable as 
partial payment on reserved seats for 
this game or the Quantico Marine 
game. The student ticket can be used 
for Student admission only for these 
two games.
The Notre Dame-Carnegie game is 
a great attraction in western Penn­
sylvania. Here is a chance to see one 
of the best college football teams in 
action. It will be a spirited contest 
from beginning to end, for Notre Dame 
has many loyal supporters in this 
vicinity.
Reservation blanks can be obtained 
at the Graduate manager’s office. It 
is advisable to make reservations now 
for tickets for it is uncertain how 
long the good reserved seats will last. 
These orders will be filled before the 
tickets are put on sale.
The Philadelphia Clan held a mas­
querade party at Gicking’s country 
place on the “Mument Road Bala." 
Prior to going to Gicking’s country 
place, the iClan assembled at the 
iHotel Pennsylvania in full Hal­
lowe'en regalia. It is reported that 
they had a very good time, and that 
their attendance was excellent.
Hit ’em high! Hit ’em low! What 
does this mean? Be patient and we 
will tell you immediately. This ’S 
the spirit of our Philadelphia Clan; 
it has heeded to the new rule of 
our Alma Mater. The rule which 
we so often tried to impress upon 
every Alumnus’ mind, that, this is 
CAREGIE, and not Tech.
Students Failed to Urge Par­
ents to Attend
NEW YORK CLAN
On November 14 the New York 
Clan will hold a dinner dance ai 
the Boulevard 'Cafe. At the same 
occasion Carnegie Tech’s songs will 
be broadcasted by radio.
Come one, come allf, for this din­
ner dance is to be a strictly social 
affair and it promises to be one of 
the best parties held in years. A 
large number are expected to attend, 
due to the fact that quite a number 
of recent gradates have been dis­
covered.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
SHILLING BRIDGE TO
TO BE HELD SATURDAY
(Continued From Page One)
Do your bit by buying a Shilling 
when it’ comes out, and by being pres­
ent at Kaufman and Baer’s Auditori­
um, November the fifteenth at two- 
thirty. Help make a bigger and bet­
ter Shilling.
Co-Operative Farming.
A small girl came to the door of 
Jed Huskorn’s farmhouse the other 
day.
“Please, Mrs. Huskorn,” said she to 
Jed’s wife, “mother wants to know if 
you’ll lend her a dozen eggs. She 
wants to put them under a hen."
“Under a hen? Why, I didn’t know 
you had a hen.’’
“We ain’t, but mother’s going to 
borrow it from Mrs. Lamborn.”—Ex.
HY8,IAE 
PBWDMM12 9D22
4ASp8T PYSu
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
The Slickest Coat on the Campus!
iFticjiffl.
No well dressed college man is 
without one. It’s the original, 
correct slicker and there’s noth­
ing as smart or sensible for rough 
weather and chilly days.
Made of famous yellow waterproof 
oiled fabric. Has all-’round strap on 
collar and elastic at wriut-banda.
Clasp-dosing style
Eutton-closing style
Stamp the correct name in your 
memory, and buy no other. The “Standard Student” is made only 
bv the Standard Oiled Clothing Co., 
New York. Slip one on at
ALL GOOD DEALERS
> WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
i NEW EELLOWS 
AT TECH
i Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
There was a large attendance pres­
ent at the Youngstown iClan meet­
ing held on November 3. At this 
meeting the following officers for the 
year 1924-1925 were elected: Presi­
dent, John E. Jackson, known as 
Struthers Furnace Jackson; vice pres­
ident, Harold P. Hildebrand of Shar­
on; Secretary-treasurer, Ralph P. 
Woodward, Youngstown. Following 
the election of officers, a resolution 
was passed to have a man appointed 
in different towns and sections ol’ 
Youngstown to boost meetings and 
assure large attendance.
The Youngstown Clan expects to 
plan a meeting with the Penn State 
Alumni about February 1.
The next meeting will be held on 
December 1 at which instance they 
will procure a member of our admin­
istration to speak.
CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN
The November luncheon of the Car­
negie Women's Clan of Cleveland will 
be held Saturday, November 15th, at 
one o’cloclc. Mrs. Maude Hainer 
Montgomery M/19 will be hostess at 
her home at 492 E. 108th street.
Mrs. Dorothy Link Draz entertain­
ed the Clan, October, 18th, with a 
luncheon and bridge at her home at 
2748 Hampshire road. Tho following 
Carnegie women were present: Mrs. 
Eleanor Clark, speaker; Miss Jean 
Grey, Miss Georgia Clark, Miss Wini­
fred Rise, Miss Mildred Lucas, Miss 
Catherine Kerr, Miss Dorothy Har­
low, Mrs. Nelle Bigley Sparks, Miss 
Catherine Allan, Mrs. Dorothy Link 
Draz.
BUFFALO CLAN
The first meeting of the Buffalo 
Clan was held last Wednesday night 
at: the office of William T. Spann, 52 
West Chippewa street, Buffalo, N. Y. 
The officers were elected as follows: 
Joseph Davis, president, succeeding 
Richard Townsend; Raymond Keller, 
vice president; William T. Spann, 
secretary and treasurer.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
TECH
CONFECTIONERY
Come to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing | 
Craig and Forbes Streets | 
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and J 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons! 
by appointment.
\ This is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
“Father's” day, held last Saturday 
proved a decided success. However, 
the attendance was not as good as that 
of last year’s.
From the point of view of program 
the day was the most successful of 
that of any year.
It is the opinion of those in chargo 
that many of the Fathers and Moth­
ers who were here were not regis­
tered. It is probably a fair estimate 
to say that at least as many again 
as registered, were here, but were 
not present at the dinner because of 
being at. the different fraternities.
However there were not nearly as 
many parents here as there should 
have been, no doubt the students did 
not take sufficient interest in the day 
and did not emphasize the invitation 
enough to their parents. Other schools 
which have Father’s day have made it 
a huge success in attendance as well 
as program. Why can’t we?
Last year there were 150 parents 
in attendance whereas this year their 
were only 123. The reasons for this 
drop have already, been enumerated.
It has been suggested by those in 
charge of this year’s program that the 
name be changed from Father’s day 
to something which is more inclusive. 
Many of the mother’s no doubt feel 
they are not wanted under the pres- 
fact that only about one-fifth of the 
parents were mothers. The matter is 
open for suggestions and it is hoped 
that a better name will come forth for 
next year’s program.
One good suggestion we have 
heard was the hyphenated form of 
Pa and Ma making the word “Pa-Ma” 
day.
Let’s all begin to plan now for next 
year’s "Pa-Ma” day and make it the 
biggest success ever, both in atten­
dance and matter of program.
New Castle Graduate Head 
of Sales Department 
Praises Course
Full Program is Prepared For 
Those Attending It
Boys Infirmary May 
Be a Reality Soon
Committee Appointed Whose 
Report Will Decide
rENUSPENCILS
TpOR the student or prof., the 
superb VENUS out-rivals 
all for perfect pencil work. 
17 black degrees—3 copying. 
American Lead 
Pencil Co.
220 Fifth Avc.
New York
Write for booklet oi Venus Pencils at .. Venus Everpointed I Mcchanlcal Pendln
Eveeryr Faa
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
One of the greatest neeas on the 
Carnegie campus today is a place 
where the sick men can properly be 
token care of. If a dormitory inhab­
itant becomes so unfortunate as to be 
confined to bed on account of illness, 
the truth of the statement “There’s 
no place like home” comes to his no­
tice very readily. For no matter how 
a man feels, it is necessary to take 
enough food of the proper nourish­
ment to maintain strength, and to pre­
vent being completely “‘run down” 
physically. And as every student 
knows meals are not obtained for a 
song, nay, nor even a whole opera, 
sometimes, and meals “made to order” 
for ill people always cost extra.
Part of the expenses of being sick 
are defrayed by the patient, at the 
rate of fifty cents per day. Very ob­
viously, three special meals cannot be 
prepared for the price of ono; and 
those who have had occasion to be 
favored with one of the tempting 
trays which seem to come floating 
from nowhere in particular, with de­
licious viands prepared in a marvel­
ously appetizing and healing manner, 
can testify that one of them is worth 
many, many times the half dollar 
asked for three of them.
To maintain and supplement this 
tray service the dormitory men, at a 
meeting about three weeks ago, voted 
a voluntary assessment from each 
man of one dollar. But great men are 
always busy and therefore forget de­
tails once in a while, so it becomes 
necessary to remind those who have 
neglected the matter to give their 
share to the president of the hall in 
which they happen to live. These 
presidents will turn over the money 
to Miss Helm to be deposited. Some 
of it will be used to purchase a little, 
necessary equipment for cases of 
emergency.
Hopes for a real infirmary have 
risen high during the last few days 
by the announcement that Dr. Baker 
has appointed a committee to inves­
tigate the feasibility of such an insti­
tution. This is just a preliminary ex­
amination of the “lay of the land” 
and of course nothing definite can be 
known until after the committee 
makes its report, and perhaps not for 
a while then. But if the authorities 
know that the students are back of 
the movement they may be tempted 
to give it a trial. So the best way to 
show your support is to pay up the 
voluntary assessment, which the ma­
jority voted was the proper thing to 
do, and prove that you appreciate the 
advantages you now possess.
In a recent letter to one of the de­
partment heads of Industries College, 
Paul M. Marceau told his former pro* 
j fessor of his last and fourth promo- 
I tion since graduation in 1921. At the 
time of writing Marceau had obtained 
his fourth promotion in fifteen mouths 
time.
Marceau came from New Castle to 
Carnegie in September of 1916 and en­
rolled in the Machinery Production 
! Course of The College of Industries. 
He received his Bachelor of Science 
! degree with the class of 1921. He was 
elected to the Alpha Tau in his Ju­
nior year.
The rapid advancement made was 
not a' walk away, Marceau states, but 
there were other college men in com­
petition at all times making the ad­
vancement more difficult. But I at­
tribute this promotion in preference 
to the other graduates due solely to 
the broad shop training received at 
Carnegie and to the ability to grasp 
the problem and apply practical meth­
ods to its solution. This training, he 
states, helps one in understanding a 
difficult situation and aids in grasp­
ing the production processes neces­
sary for successful competitive man­
ufacturing today.
Late in his second year's employ­
ment, Marceau was sent to the Pacific 
coast where he built up a sales agency 
for his company and had it in suc­
cessful .operation before returning. 
Upon his return from this trip he re-, 
ceived his promotion which now 
makes him the President’s assistant 
in full charge of the replacement 
parts division.
The rapid advancement being at­
tained by this Machinery -Production-' 
ite not only shows what material is 
being turned out at Carnegie but it 
brings to the front a rather unique 
and original Carnegie Course. Ma­
chinery Production is a course which 
in other schools is imitated by In­
dustrial Engineering. But few courses 
in any college attempt, let alone ac­
complish, the broad and complete 
training presented by this course. It 
is the coming course and tho day is 
already here when Industry requires 
her executives in production to be 
scientifically trained. Not only must 
they know the theory of an operation 
but the properly trained executive 
must know tho best practical shop 
method to perform that operation.
Marceau makes frequent trips to 
Pittsburgh, and seldom does he fail 
to drop around the school and pay 
a visit to his former instructors.
SEVEN CARNEGIE PEOPLE
ENTER PROFESSIONAL
COURSES AT PITT
Seven graduates or former students 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy have entered professional schools 
of the University of Pittsburgh this 
fall. They are: Miss Helen Jones 
Lloyd registered as a junior In the 
School of Education; James Thomas 
Hoffman and Roger Loveland John­
son as juniors in the School of Engi­
neering; and John C. Peterson as a 
junior in the School of Business Ad­
ministration.
TARTAN GRIDDERS ADD
ATTRACTION TO DANCE
(Continued From rage Ono) 
ing the event, Coach •-Steffen sont 
down a sot of Walter Camp’s “Daily 
Dozen” to aid in tho preliminary train­
ing. It certainly does look as though 
our boys will two-step homo with tho 
bacon. Coach Steffen has positlvoly 
asserted that tho players bed time will 
be moved back to ten-thirty to allow 
the boys to give a few oxhlbltlons 
after the contest. The weather man 
has forecasted rain and snow so a 
clear, warm night is assured.
As this article goes to press, it is 
discovered that the daily newspapers 
have declared that all the Tartan reg­
ulars are out for the rest of the sea­
son with injuries. Although they are 
all in perfect health, they may be com­
pelled to cancel all their engagements 
in order to verify, these newspaper 
reports. The contest may yet be call­
ed off.
Nevertheless, the players will be 
there, the crowds will be larger, the 
merry-making will be more merry, the 
Athletic Association will be wealthier, 
the men will be poorer by $1.25, and 
their escorts will be happier. All this 
at one of the regular old Saturday 
night football dances. Can you afford 
to miss it? I’ll say not. Then, be 
there !
Tom—Who is the smallest man in 
history? ,
John—I don’t know. Who is he? 
Tom—The Roman soldier who slept 
on his* watch.—Green and White.
JUNIOR BANQUET DATE
SET FORv DECEMBER 13
(Continued From Page One.) 
may go, but the annual feast of the 
Junior class -will stand out in the 
diversified social repertoire of Car-; 
negie as the primary event of all. 
The Plebe banquets are interesting, 
or rather'used to be, the Sophomore 
banquets are mediocre, but the 
Junior culinary festivities are the 
the turning points of college educa­
tion. If one’s talent has Iain dor-: 
ment thus far, it will now surely rise 
and proclaim itself.
Great and capable men, who have 
dwelt In our midst thus far unherald­
ed and unsung, will be ultimately 
discovered and acclaimed at this af­
fair. It is here that college boys are 
transformed into college men and 
from thence on look back on their 
college life rather than forward 
to it. e i
Every man who has weathered the 
storm and escaped all the rocks that 
are to be encountered in two years 
at Carnegie, should consider the 
Junior banquet as a half way harbor 
of safety In which he can rest while 
Reviewing the past and surveying 
the future.
The date for this event is draw­
ing nigh, so all ye good and likely 
Juniors harken to the words of the 
sage of Skibo and fail not to be 
there in both body and spirit.
An opportunity to go to “school” 
again will bo given Master Plumbers 
and Heating and Ventilating Engi­
neers of Pennsylvania and the Tri- 
State District this week when a 
Three Days’ Institute for these groups 
will be held on November 12, 13, and 
14 at the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology. The three days’ institute, 
consist chiefly of lectures and demon­
strations given by faculty members 
and covering a variety of problems in 
sanitation, health, hot water storage, 
heat, water flow, corrosion and other 
subjects of special interest to the in­
dustries.
The coming affair, which will be 
tho first of its kind ever held in Penn­
sylvania, is one of the most unique 
developments since such institutions 
as tho Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy began to take an active interest 
in the problems of various industries. 
According to Dr. C. B. Connelley, Di; 
rector of Industrial Relations at Car­
negie Tech,, who is to bo iu charge of 
the program this week, the plumbers’
I institute is the forerunner of similar 
affairs of the kind, already planned 
for several other industries and groups 
of industries.
I The institute for the sanitation and 
heating men of the state this week 
constitutes, entirely, a free service 
to those who attend. Tho only charge 
to bo made those who attend, it is 
announced, will bo registration feo 
of one dollar. In addition to the of­
fering of its education facilities 
through the media of lectures and 
demonstrations, a program of enter­
tainment will be given under tho aus­
pices of the local institution.
Local endorsement of the affair has 
beon given by Dr. C. J. Vaux, Direc­
tor of the Department of Iloalth in 
Pittsburgh, who has already arranged 
to havo the Sanitary Police and the 
Plumbing Inspectors in tho city at­
tend the lectures and demonstrations.
“Tho purpose of the throo days' 
Institute, is to give to those in tho 
plumbing, heating and ventilating in­
dustries of Pennsylvania and else­
where information which has, In tlio 
oast, boon available to only a very 
limited group.
“Tho Carnegie Instltuto oi Tech­
nology believes that It boos tho needs 
of those great industries and realizes, 
moreover, that it is In a position to 
supply much valuablo information to 
plumbing, heating, and ventilating 
men. .As a result of this position to 
those industries, the throe days’ in­
stitute has beon set aside as an op­
portunity to present somo Important 
facts and demonstrations.
“The plumbing, heating and venti­
lating industries are rapidly advanc­
ing. Tho general public is moro on- 
lightenod and bettor Informed than 
formerly In matters of sanitation. 
Consequently, II; has bocomo noces- 
sary that loaders of those Industries 
should take advantage of every moans 
to increase their knowledge in sanita­
tion developments.”
The program of the three days’ In­
stitute will bo as follows: Wednes­
day, November 12, 9:30 a. m. Regis­
tration, Central Building; 11:00, Ad- 
dresses of Wolcome, Josoph A. Wol- 
don, of Pittsburgh, Dr. Thomas S. 
J3akor, President, and Dr. C. B. Con* 
nelloy, Director of Industrial Rela­
tions, Carnegio Institute of Technol­
ogy; 1:30 p. in., “Hot Water Demon­
stration and Storage of Hoi; Water,” 
by Professor S. E. Dibble, Head of 
the Department of Heating, Ventila­
ting, and Sanitation; 3:00, “Water 
Purification,” by Professor Harold L. 
Lang, Department of Biology and Pub­
lic Health.
Thursday, November 13, 9:00 a. m., 
two lectures (No. 1) “Tests Conduct­
ed on a Soil Stack,” and “Flushing 
of Water Closets,” by Professor Dib­
ble; 10:30, “The Corrosion of Iron 
and Steel.” by Professor Robert B. 
Leighou, Head of the Department of 
Industrial Science; 1:30 p. m., “Wat­
er Pressure,” by Professor Harold A. 
Thomas, Department of Hydraulics; 
3:00, “The Nature of I-Ieat,” by Pro­
fessor Harry S. Hewer, Head of the 
Department of Physicsf* 4:30, “Sug­
gestions on the Value of Industrial 
and Technical Literature,” by E. H. 
McClelland, of Carnegie Library.
Friday, November 14, 9:00 a. m„ 
“Sewage Disposal,” by Professor 
Lang; 10:30, “Heat Transfer,” by 
Professor Hewer; 1:30 p. m., two 
lectures (No. 1), “Flow of Water in 
Pipes,” (No. 2), “Measurement of 
Flowing Water,” by Professor Thom­
as; 3:00, “Some Ttems of Chemistry 
and Metallurgy of Interest to the in­
dustry,” by Professor Leighou.
A special exhibit of plumbing, and 
heating and ventilating supplies man­
ufactured In the Pittsburgh District 
will be a feature of the three days’' 
Institute. Nearly 20 local manufac­
turers will he represented, according 
to an announcement.
The entertainment plans for those 
attending the institute will Include 
an Inspection trip through Carnegio 
Tech on Wednesday evening and a 
Play by students of tho Department 
of Drama In the Arts Theatre on 
Thursday night. Inspection trips to 
a number of local industrial plants 
have been scheduled for Saturday.
PENN STATE IS HOST
TO 800 OF PLAID CLAN
(Continued From Pago One.) 
tho train was unanimous in, its opin­
ion on that score. The traditional 
fight of Carnegio teams never stood 
out to greater advantage than in that 
losing game. Some football players 
on the special train during tho re­
turn trip when they wore offered con­
gratulations on their splendid fight 
answered: “Applesauce.”
But it wasn't Applesauce.
There were none on that return 
trip who felt*really downhearted over 
the game for there was no cause for 
feeling like that. As long as Car­
negie teams fight like this ono did, 
Carnegio rooters will stay with them 
till tho proverbial cows come home. 
Win, lose, or draw.
The special train carried a tired, 
but not discouraged crowd back to 
Pittsburgh. Soveral humorous inci­
dents took place. In particular, it is 
told that one of the Central Building 
officials banded together with some 
of the students, and put on a girl's 
hat and coat, sat down in one of the 
cars and with one of the fellows put 
on such a realistic pictumation of a 
petting party that a chaporon Avas 
called, who was very much shocked 
until she discovered her error. In 
general, the homo journpy pussod 
without further excitement. At Jean­
nette, Pa. tho train was ‘mot by a 
special messenger from tho PITTS­
BURGH POST carrying a supply ol 
the Sunday morning papers, with full 
details of the game and a splendid 
tribute to tho fighting Tartans which 
sent the gang home in an excellent 
mood.
The bummers all report a most 
wonderful trip with tho best1 of co­
operation from all motorists. Fow or 
the men had to walk many miles and 
all wore back in time for classes 
Monday morning.
All in all. It was a wonderful trip 
and wo will make another noxt year, 
coming back with tho Hon steak safe 
ly tucked away.
M.M. ALUMNAE WILL 
HOLD FALL PARTY
All Members to Be Present 
At Theatre Party on 
Tuesday, Nov. 18
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association Theatre Party Is to bo 
given on the ovoning of November IS 
in the Little Theatre. Lenore Road, 
’17, the chairman of the committee 
has sent out notices to all the Alum­
nae and it has been announced by the 
secretary-tioasurer of tho association, 
Bernice Kruger, M9, that reservations 
should bo In today.
The Department of Drama will pre­
sent “Tho Critic” by Sheridan, This 
is a pre-Victorian comedy which 
should prove interesting because of 
the costuming as well us the excel­
lence of the cast. Miss Read’s com­
mittee consists of Mildred Knapp, '15, 
Florence Glafey Bayard. ’17, Rachel 
Mag-ill, ’17, Florence1 Savage Went­
worth ’14, and Rebecca Schmuclcer 
Conner, ’17.
It is hoped that the alumnae will 
turnout as many as possible in order 
to make the occasion a success in 
every sense of the word. Thu Alum­
nae Association is very active and 
a real force on the campus and de­
serves tho support of all. This theater 
party is just a week off, so there will 
be no time to forget about it. Let all 
the Alumnae bo on hand November 
the eighteenth at the Little Theatre 
in the Collego of Fine Arts at eight 
o'clock. Sond in your reservations to 
Miss Kruger.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TO
PRESlENT “THE CRITIC”
COMMITTEE IS
APPOINTED FOR
JUNIOR PROM.
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
been drawn up. It promises, more­
over, that advantage will be taken of 
all tho oxporlonco galnod at Carnegio 
Proms in tho pant, so that “Just a real 
good ball” can bo assurod all who 
are interested.
WILL LAUNCH THISTLE
CAMPAIGN NEXT WEEK |
Noxt woolc the Thistle will launch 
a campaign which will be the most 
successful In tho history of tho school. 
The Thistle, costing'$4.50, Is not only 
a directory for roforonoo In school ac- 
tlvltios, but also a book that; can bo 
usod In future yours to recall tho 
good times you had hero. Thus, if 
you aro a fjtudunt, you can read again 
of our triumphs, and If you aro an 
alumnus, you can keep In touch with 
procoodlngs hero.
Tho Thlstlo Board urges that all 
seniors, frutornltlos, sororltloB, ami 
othor school organizations that havo 
individual plcturos report as oarly as 
possible to Room 149, Industries at 
the following hours:, 10:30 a. m. to 
3:30 p. m. ovory day except Saturday. 
Those hours will bo official until Fri­
day, Nov. 21. After this all stragglers 
must go to Mr. McCluy's studio In 
Wllkliisburg to have tho pictures 
taken. In order to avoid confusion 
caused by too many coming in late, 
it Is hoped that all will come while 
Mr. McClay is here.
Telephone Schtinley 0870-J
Approved Marinello Shop
Marcel Waving—Manicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
Treatments.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
(Contlnuod From Page Ono.) 
Shoridan’s satire. This “tragedy" 
had boon written according to ail tho 
apvoved rules.of the School of Drama 
in that day, and the scenes of tho 
second part of “Tho Critic”are 
among tho moro humorous that havo 
ovor boon written for tho stage.
The leading tragodlans follow:
Tilburina, played both by Eliziv 
both Soworsby and Harriot Walker.
Sir Waltor Raleigh by William 
Martin.
Tho Qovornor of tho Fort, Herbert 
.BNBeNBw
Sir Chrlstophor Hatton, John Con­
way.
The Prompter, Ellsworth Porrln.
Others in tho largo oust aro Philip 
Rhodes Thorne, Marlon Booson, 
Claire Schollhouse, Virginia Williams, 
Ida Kraus, Zubello Davis, Robert A!- 
dordleo, Saml Schwartz, F, I^oon 
Ford, Carolino Marsh, .loo GoBsner 
and Maury Tucker man.
Tho sconory has boon specially 
palntod by Mr. Cloodrldgo In tho 
spirit of tho Eighteenth Century, In­
cidental music has boon arranged 
by Profoflsor O'Brlon. Thono, to- 
gother with tho oostumos of tho 
Georgian period, make a dooldodliy 
pl/oturonquo sotting for tho play,
CARNEGIE GRILL ROOM
NEARING COMPLETION
(Continued From Pago 1) 
lator on nights on which dances aro 
hold on the Campus. Tho work Is 
progressing ropidly under tho direc­
tion of L. II. Miller, Supervisor of 
Equipment, and will probably bo com­
pleted about December 10.
** I
THE BUCKNELLIAN 
Use Your Head.
Anxious Father: For fear our baby 
will be kidnapped I’m going to hire 
a policeman or two to guard him.
Smart Friend: Why not hire a good 
looking nurse?
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital - -...................$300,000.00
Surplus - - -..............$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE. DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
tu vCo mnhuBCui 
egBnh
The place where all good fel­
lows moet and enjoy a good' 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in­
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
STUDENTS!
We Specialize .In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING-
OUTFITS
at special prices.. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
