iluirie 89. Issue 14Carnegie Mellon University’s-Student N
Student Senate examines financial misconduct
'reasurer freezes Student Government President’s budget
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photographer
Student Government President Declan McCullagh awaits as the 
Student Senate votes on whether or not to Impeach him.
iMAX CHITTISTER
artan Assistant News Editor
There was a vote by Student 
enate to impeach Student Body 
resident Declan McCullagh 
uesday night. The motion to 
ipeach was motivated by an 
iresolved financial situation 
nd the recent harassment 
larges brought against the 
resident by Donna Riley and 
iystal Trexel. The vote, which 
quired a two-thirds majority to 
ass, failed by a vote of 10-10-1. 
Immediately after McCullagh’s 
jport, Senate Treasurer Emma 
.-rosden announced that she had 
rozen the Student Body 
resident’s account, since it was 
¡inning a deficit. McCullagh de­
ended himself by stating that he 
ras owed more than $1,000. by 
arious organizations, including 
le Treasurer and Student Sen- 
:e.
? Senate Chair, Burt Holzman,
reminded McCullagh that Stu­
dent Senate had, in fact, paid 
him back.
The official 
motion to vote on 
impeachment 
was made by 
Merle Atkinson,
Funding and 
Recognition 
Chair. Atkinson 
cited several rea­
sons for the mo­
tion, most of 
them pertaining 
to the financial 
situation.
Records showed 
that McCullagh 
took out an 
American Ex­
press Corporate 
Card this past summer.
Atkinson was unsure who autho­
rized the card, which still showed 
an outstanding balance.
McCullagh’s phone bills were 
also cited. The initial estimate 
Atkinson made 
was $450 for 
one semester. 
“Many of them 
[were made] 
using the 
American Ex­
press card,” At­
kinson said. 
One Senator 
claimed that 
McCullagh 
used the Ameri­
can Express 
card to make 
phone calls 
from one cam­
pus phone to 
another, thus 
putting an 
unnec-essary 
charge on the 
card.
According to Atkinson, 
McCullagh spent approximately
$270 on dinners. No names were 
given as to who the dinners were 
for. “The purpose and person 
should be on the receipt,” 
Atkinson stated.
Student Senate fiscal policy 
states that recognized organiza­
tions cannot request funds for 
food and beverages. However, 
according to Holzman, “we [Sen­
ate] suspended fiscal policy.”
McCullagh then had the oppor­
tunity to present his case. He 
found it “disgusting Senate would 
stoop to this level... I can justify 
every purchase ... and [phone] 
call.” Many of the calls placed 
were to legal experts around the 
country regarding the censorship 
issue.
McCullagh also defended him­
self against the harassment and 
abuse charges brought by Riley 
and Trexel through the Univer­
sity Committee on Discipline 
[UDC] McCullagh claims he is 
.the latest in a long line of victims
of his accusers.
McCullagh stated that he was 
under direction not to discuss a 
majority of what happened at the 
UDC hearing.
After some debate concerning 
specifics of the financial situa­
tion, Anne Bielke moved to vote. 
She said she felt there was noth­
ing to be gained by further debate
on the issue, since the Senators 
were not a-ware of the financial 
sit-uation and Me Cullagh could 
not comment on the legal issues.
The motion to vote passed 
unanimously. The motion to im­
peach was defeated by a vote of 
10 for, 10 against, and one ab­
stention.
Please see SENATE, page 5 ,
Senator Merle Atkinson presents 
his argument for Impeaching the 
Student Government President.
Forum Features Diversions
Stamp out stupidity Check out housing at Here’s Beaux Arts
Ball • see page L9see page 6 CMU * see page LITHE TARTAN
largesS Satg mpoarSp upisStg
By HEATHER ZINDLE
Tartan Staffwriter
Instead of waiting in long lines 
to receive housing numbers, this 
year the number will come to 
students by email courtesy of the 
new computer-generated number 
system. This is one of the changes 
in the room reservation process 
for the 1995-1996 academicyear.
According to Dave Potter, di­
rector of housing, there are not 
huge or fundamental changes to 
the process itself, but concern 
about the efficiency of the lottery 
system led to “a better way to 
provide numbers.”
Marcia Klosinski, Coordinator 
of Operations, also pointed out 
that the staff won’t be tied up all 
day with the process. “Often stu­
dents could not get in touch with 
the housing staff for days because 
the staff was tied up with num­
ber selection.”
One consequence of this change, 
however, is that it is important
for people to pay their housing 
deposits in the allotted time pe­
riod. Students can pay their de­
posit from now until February 16 
at the Cashier’s Office. According 
to Potter, the numbers should be 
out by February 24. Right now, 
there are plans to have the num­
bers sent by both email and a 
postcard. However, there is an 
alternative for students with fi­
nancial difficulties; they will not 
be excluded from the process, for 
there are requests for extensions 
available in the Housing Office. 
Also, according to Potter, there 
will be some buffer random num­
bers for those who turn in their 
deposit late. Details concerning 
the penalty for these late stu­
dents has not been decided yet.
In previous years, there have 
also been problems concerning 
the information about available 
rooms. Students who were desig­
nated as roommates were not 
forced to sign contracts immedi­
ately, and did not show up on the
system. This year, designated 
roommates, instead of coming 
during room pick, must come sign 
their contract during the first 
phase of room retention, and can 
do so any time during this first 
week (March 7-9) after they are 
designated. Thursday of that 
week will be set aside solely for 
designees to come in and sign 
contracts. According to Potter, “It 
is imperative students under­
stand they must get in during the 
first phase.” Klosinski added that 
this will reduce the number of 
people who come to selection, 
which will allow the lines to move 
quickly.
As a result of this change, there 
will be another advantage for stu­
dents. According to Potter, Hous­
ing has arranged to have con­
tinuous updating on-line via An­
drew. In the past, updates were 
made in the evenings, and often 
were not accurate because the 
designated roommates were not 
on the system.
University plans tuition increase
By GIL ALTEROVTTZ
Tàrtan Staffwriter
ppndergraduate tuition will be going 
up next year. A measure to raise the 
fciition as of the 1995-96 school year 
was recently approved by the Board of 
trustees. Undergraduate tuition will go 
up to $18,600 per year, an increase of 3.9 
»ercent over last year’s tuition of $17,900. 
pjis year’s increase will be the lowest 
ercentage hike in tuition in 20 years. 
[The last time that tuition was raised 
by a smaller percentage was in 1975 
when tuition costs remained unchanged 
from the previous year.
I At 3.9 percent, the increase is rela­
tively close to inflation. According to the 
[8-5" by 11" News,” a publication by the 
ppartment of Public Relations, Presi- 
pept Mehrabian claimed that “it is our 
Btentionto keep combined tuition, room, 
p{l board increases close to the pro­
tected rate of inflation.”
|.Mehrabian cited “re-engineering and 
jther total quality management tech- 
pues” as significant in helping control 
diversity expenditures.
I William F. Elliott, Vice President of 
Wollment, also pointed to administra­
te savings as important in helping 
tuition increases low. He said that 
egie Mellon has “tried to become 
¦°?e efficient by reducing the adminis­
trative costs in running the University.” 
Elliott explained that these savings, com­
ing from reduced administrative costs, 
have been successfully reallocated to­
ward the enhancement of academic pro­
grams.
According to President Mehrabian, 
increasing tuition by a rate near to that 
of inflation will “require us to continue 
to address issues of quality manage­
ment, efficiency, and productivity.” 
Mehrabian also discussed how the uni­
versity plans to spend the money gener­
ated by the raise in tuition.
He noted examples such as augment­
ing academic, extracurricular, and sup­
port programs. Elliott noted that using 
income from tuition, “Carnegie Mellon 
University will make a, significant in­
vestment in financial aid to provide the 
opportunity for students to continue to 
enroll in the university.”
He said that in terms of financial aid 
assistance, the University’s increased 
tuition income will “provide an opportu­
nity to increase gift aid, but there will 
also be increased loans and jobs [in fi­
nancial aid packages].”
Reaction from students upon hearing 
of the tuition hike was mixed. Some 
were glad that the increase was the 
lowest in 20 years, while others were 
disgruntled and resented the rising costs 
associated with attending Carnegie
Mellon University.
The 3.9 percent increase was lauded 
by Matthew Pavelle, a sophomore ma­
joring in Computer Science, whose reac­
tion was: “Given the fact that the Uni­
versity generally has to raise tuition in 
order to stay active, I guess it’s good that 
it is being raised by such a small per­
centage.”
According to Matthew Tarpy, an MCS 
freshman, “this increase in tuition is 
really quite wrong because most of us 
that I know here are scraping just to get 
the money right now to go.” He went on 
to say that while this year’s tuition in­
crease “sounds really good,” there will 
probably be increases in subsequent 
years.
Tarpy concluded, “I don’t know how 
I’m going to get out of here for under 
$120,000.1 don’t know if I’m going to be 
able to do it because right now, if I don’t 
find some more money, I’ll be leaving 
next year and I know many people who 
are on that boat.”
In addition to the tuition cost increase, 
the average cost for room and board will 
increase by around 3.2 percent to $5860 
in the fall of 1995.
That brings the average cost of attend­
ing Carnegie Mellon University count­
ing tuition, room, and board to $24,460 
in the fall of1995, a 3.7 percent increase 
over last year’s figure.
Samuel Greenfield/Tartan Contributing Editor 
as they engage in a friendly game of touch football
A Physical Plant van went over the hill near the Physical Plant building Monday. 
The driver claimed he was driving down the driveway when a red mule got in his 
way. The next thing he knew he was falling down the hill. The driver was taken 
to the hospital.
Mv Truck FaMeth Over...

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995THIS JUST IN
Clinton gives State 
of the Union address
WASHINGTON, January 19 (DJ) 
—PresidentClintonlaunchedhis quest 
for a political comeback with a State of 
the Union address aimed at restoring 
Americans’ faith in a government 
many don’t trust.
As he stared out last night at a 
Congress now controlled by the Re­
publicans, the President also tried to 
make clear that he doesn’t think gov­
ernment has the answer for every­
thing. Rather, in Kennedy esque tones, 
Clinton called on the American people 
to take more responsibility for their 
own lives and communities.
“As we enter a new era, we need a 
new set of understandings, not just 
with government, but even more im­
portant, with one another as Ameri­
cans,” the President declared.
It is this theme of a “New Covenant”
— the government creating new op­
portunity and citizens exercisingmore 
responsibility — that was a center­
piece of Clinton’s 1992 campaign. By 
returning to it, Clinton is seeking to 
strike a delicate balance: He must 
demonstrate a willingness to rein in 
government, as the public prescribed 
1 ast November when they handed con­
trol of Congress to the Republicans', at 
the same time, he also must show 
people that he isn’t just a Republican 
clone.
The speech, which lasted an hour 
and 20 minutes and was interrupted 
by applause more than 90 times, 
showed that Clinton is accepting the 
new realities around him. Speaking of 
the Democrats’ rebujce this fall, 
Clinton admitted that 'he has made 
mistakes, and said he learned “again 
the importance of humility in all hu­
man endeavor.” He got warm applause 
when he added, “I am also proud to say 
tonight that our country is stronger 
than it was two years ago.” The some­
times emotional defense of his pro­
grams and road map for the future at 
times invoked words like “empower­
ment” and “opportunity” used most 
recently by his rival, House Speaker 
Newt; Gingrich.
Clinton called for bipartisanship, 
and held out welfare reform as a pro­
gram that can achieve it. He said it 
was time to stop using the issue to 
divide the country, and that while bad 
behavior should be punished, he won’t 
punish children and past mistakes. 
“All of us have made our mistakes,” 
Clinton said, “and none of us can 
change our yesterdays, but every one
of us can change our tomorrows.”
But with no chance of altering the 
Republicans’ agenda, he can no longer 
define himself by a litany of legisla­
tive proposals. Thus, most of Ms re­
marks focused instead on big-picture 
themes. He also sought to articulate 
his vision by challenging the Republi­
cans in some areas.
Clinton indicated, for example, that 
he wouldn’t stand for reversing last 
year’s legislation banning assault 
weapons. “A lot of people laid down 
their seats in Congress so police offic­
ers and kids wouldn’t have to lay 
down their lives in our streets under 
a hail of assault-weapons bullets,” he 
said. “I will not see that ban repealed.” 
He also signaled he’d fight for his 
national service program. Highlight­
ing the dispute with Speaker Gingrich, 
who says he is “totally, unequivocally 
opposed” to national service, four 
young participants in the program 
were among those who sat with First 
Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton in the 
House gallery. In outlining his New 
Covenant, Clinton cited not only the 
responsibilities of average citizens, 
but of the corporate world and the 
entertainment industry. He vowed to 
keep workingto reduce the deficit and 
expand markets, but, he said, corpo­
rations “have an obligation, when they 
are doing well, to keep jobs in our 
communities and give their workers a 
fair share of the prosperity that they 
generate.”
Clinton was even tougher on the 
entertainment industry, lauding its 
creativity, but also declaring that it 
has a responsibility “to understand 
the damage that comes from the in­
cessant, repetitive, and mindless vio­
lence, and irresponsible conduct that 
permeates our media.”
The President did offer a few new 
wrinkles, but they were carefully 
aimed at putting his administration 
on the side of the working class — a 
block of voters that desertedthe Demo­
crats in November and that Clinton 
needs if he is to remain in the White 
House beyond 1996.
As expected, Clinton called for rais- 
ingthe $4.25-an-hour minimum wage. 
He didn’t say by how much, but aides 
have been talking about a boost to $5. 
Clinton noted that by the end of the 
week, each lawmaker will “have 
earned as much in congressional sal­
ary as people who work under mini­
mum wage make in an entire year.”
1 1IM
Gunman kills two in Chapel Hill
CHAPELHILL, N.C, January 26 (D J)
— A gunman opened fire in downtown 
Chapel Hill, killing two people and 
wounding two others with a high-pow- 
ered rifle, police said.
That man began shooting at passing 
cars about 2 pm and was arrested within 
an hour after being shot by police, au­
thorities said.
The gunman wounded a bystander 
who tackled him and a female police 
officer. All three were taken to hospitals, 
where their conditions were not imme­
diately available.
Ed Donegan, a grocery store owner, 
told Raleigh television station WRAL 
that the gunfire started inside the court­
house, across the street from the Uni­
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
“This came up like a sudden storm,” 
Donegan said. “There was a tremendous 
amount of shooting. I have no idea the 
amount of rounds. It was not like 10 
shots were fired. This was more along 
the lines of 25 or 30 at least.”
One of the dead appeared to be a uni­
versity student. A backpack was stick­
ing out from under a sheet police used to 
cover the body, which fell in front of a 
sorority house.
About a half-block away, the other 
victim’s body was sprawled on the steps 
of a rooming house.
Jason Howard, a doctoral candidate in 
microbiology, was the gunman’s first 
target. Howard encountered him walk­
ing down the street, carrying what ap­
peared to be a high-caliber rifle and a 
camouflage jacket.
“He looked right at me,” Howard said. 
“I was scared.”
Howard said the gunman fired at him, 
but the bullet went through his pants 
and ricocheted off his keys. He was not 
hurt.
A bicyclist who saw the gunman next 
wasn’t so lucky, said another witness, 
Matt Mesmer. The gunman fatally shot 
that person as he tried to escape.
“It looked like he shot at anyone he 
encountered,” said Orange County Dis­
trict Attorney Carl Fox, who surveyed 
the crime scene, just steps from his office 
in the county courthouse.
Balanced budget bill clears House
WASHINGTON, January 27 (DJ) — 
The House approved a constitutional 
amendment requiring the federal gov­
ernment to balance its budget, though 
Democrats blocked the anti-tax version 
that had been a main tenet of the new 
Republican majority’s “Contract With 
America.”
Celebratory shouts erupted from the 
Republicans’ side of the chamber last 
night as a preliminary vote for the suc- 
cessfiil proposal topped the two-thirds 
needed to approve additions to the Con­
stitution.
Soon after, the House gave final, bi­
partisan approval by a 300-132 vote. All 
but two of the 230 Republicans voted for 
it, joined by 72 Democrats.
The proposed amendment, which still 
needs the approval of two-thirds of the 
Senate and 38 of the states, would re­
quire a balanced budget in seven years 
—by the year 2002 — or two years after 
the states’ ratification, whichever is later. 
Current projections indicate that $1 tril­
lion in savings would be required over 
seven years to reach a balanced budget 
in fiscal 2002.
Provisions of the bipartisan amend­
ment, which was co-sponsored by GOP 
Rep. Dan Schaefer of Colorado and 
Democratic Rep. Charles Stenholm of 
Texas, would allow Congress to waive 
the balanced-budget requirement if ap­
proved by three-fifths majorities in both 
chambers. It also could be waived dur­
ing wartime or when the national secu­
rity was deemed to be threatened.
The unsuccessful Republican version 
would have required a three-fifths 
supermajority vote in the House and 
Senate for tax increases to help balance 
the budget. As passed, tax increases and 
spending cuts would continue to require 
only majority votes.
Plane crash due to faulty rudder
PITTSBURGH, January 25 (DJ) — 
The Federal Aviation Administration 
pinpointed the rudder as the likely cause 
of the September 8 crash of US Air’s 
Flight 427 near Pittsburgh. But investi­
gators said they still don’t know what 
might have caused the rudder to move 
and send the Boeing 737-300 into a hard 
left roll.
At a public hearing on the crash con­
ducted by the National Transportation 
Safety Board, FAA test pilot Lester 
Bervyn said a malfunctioning rudder 
most accurately simulates the flight path 
of the downed plane. “Based on our simu­
lation, that was the only control that 
could have caused the plan to roll that 
fast,” he said.
Investigators theorize that the rudder 
on the plane moved slowly to the left at 
about 21/2 degrees per second, until the 
aircraft rolled on its side and nosed down. 
But they can’t confirm that scenario 
because the airplane’s flight data re­
corder, which measures parameters of 
flight, wasn’t programmed to record the 
position of the rudder itself, which newer 
models measure.
USAir is a unit of USAir Group Inc.
US shows strong economic growth
WASHINGTON, January 27 (DJK 
Council of Economic Advisers Chair 
Laura Tyson said today’s report of 4iM 
percent growth and 2.7 percent inflation 
last year showed the best combination 
strong growth and modest inflation in
30 years.
“It’s clear that in 1994, the American 
economy turned in one of its finest 
macroeconomic performances in a gi 
eration,” Tyson said in a statement.
She said growth was supported 
strong spending on capital equipment, 
up 17.5 percent; consumer durables, up
8.5 percent
“These increases are noteworthy when 
viewed against the backdrop of rising 
interest rates and reflect high levels cl 
business and consumer confidence fo. 
eled by strong growth in real disposal 
income,” Tyson said.
Residential investment ‘showed resity 
ience’ in the face of rising rates, 
though after a strong performance duii 
ing the first half of the year, it declin&j 
at an annual rate of 4.3 percent in the 
second half, Tyson noted. Over the past 
two years, real federal purchases hav 
declined nearly 7 percent, Tyson said.
Quake damage at 6 trillion yen
NEW YORK, January 23 (DJ)—Dan 
age caused by last week’s earthquake i 
Kobe, Japan, is likely to total between 5 
trillion and 6 trillion yen, according to 
Japanese Minister of Economics 
Kiyohiko Nanao.
In an interview with CNBC, Nanao 
said estimates on the damage are still 
being tabulated by government officials 
in Tokyo, but that officials currently 
the 5 trillion to 6 trillion yen range are 
reasonable. Nanao declined to speculate 
whether the Bank of Japan would agree 
to ease monetary policy as part of the 
government’s reconstruction package. 
However, Nanao said the Japanese cen­
tral bank is expected to play a pivotal 
role in maintaining stability and ensur­
ing liquidity in the national economy 
and financial markets.
New Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Briefs Compiled by 
Max Chittister
Layout by 
Max Chittister
Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, 2, and 3 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
Get out of the cluster. 
It's time to cut the cord. 
Burn your suits. 
Get a job.
GORDIANf
CS, ECE and EE graduates: If you have not already signed up to 
interview with Gordian at the Career Center, please email 
your resume immediately to recruit@gordian.com.
Info Session:
Thursday, February 2 
7 pm, Student Center, Room 210
Interviews:
Friday, February 3
20361 Irvine Ave. Santa Ana Heights, CA 92707-5637 
(714)850.0205/ (714)850.0533 (fax)
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm • Monday thru Sunday

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 19953
Forum addresses registration needs
Uy BILL StudenGtno
Tartan Staffwriter
On Wednesday, January 25, at the 
first of a series of open forums, the Ad­
ministration decided to show the stu­
dents that they could take anything that 
was thrown at them. Students were given 
he opportunity to come and ask any 
questions that they felt were pertinent 
Th that regarded policies on campus with 
yhich they had problems. The forum 
vas called “Get it off your chest,” and it 
vas set up to help the student body give 
¿he administration direct feedback to 
the issues and also to provide a sounding 
joard for student frustrations.
This session was designed to accom- 
nodate the questions and concerns for 
the Registration process. Those admin- 
strators in attendance were Keith Marsh 
rom the Cashier’s office; John Papinchak 
•om the Registrar’s office; John Matsko, 
he assistant director of Financial Aid; 
eff Bolton, the assistant vice president 
f Planning and Budget; and William 
¡Hiot, vice president in charge of Enroll­
ment.
Heading up the question-and-answer 
ession was Noah Scarr, a sophomore 
ihemistry major.
The forum began with the usual intro­
ductions, and then the questions began. 
There had been an opportunity prior to 
the forum to email questions, comments, 
and suggestions, in order to have them 
ready to go. The first question came 
from this list of prior questions. The 
purpose of the forum was to give the 
enrollment process a make-over and to 
give the students a chance to express 
their opinions.
The session lasted for two hours and 
was very informative, both for adminis­
tration and the fifteen or so students in 
attendance.
The responses from the administra­
tors on hand were consistent. Marsh 
said, “I think it went pretty well. I was 
expecting a lot worse. I hope that I can 
use the information that I got to the 
advantage of the students. I was a little 
disappointed at the turnout. I definitely 
think that the forum was worthwhile, 
though.”
Similar comments came from 
Papinchak. “I think that the forum went 
real well. I, for one, learned a lot. The 
students in attèndance confirmed some 
rumors that we had heard and now with 
this information we can better under­
stand how to redesign the enrollment
process. We have a redesign team that 
will look at each step of the enrollment 
process individually and take steps to 
fix them. I thought it was interesting to 
hear all the things that the students go 
through. We’re certainly going to do all 
that we can to help the students and 
prevent them from becomingfrustrated.” 
Matsko said, “It was nice to get feed­
back from the students. I think that this 
should be done at least once a semester 
to hear student concerns. I think that a 
lot of information came out in the ses­
sion. We know the internal problems, 
but we need the student’s input to keep 
things running smoothly.”
Some of the students in attendance 
had different opinions.
Todd Gleason, a junior CS major, dis­
agreed with the administration. “I think 
that the forum went well, but I really 
don’t think that anything will come out 
of it. I don’t think that the administra­
tion plans on changing much.”
Ian Schreiber, a junior CS major, said, 
“I think that the forum was okay, but I 
think that the only thing that will come 
out of it will be to my benefit because I 
went to complain. As for the student 
body in general, I don’t think that any­
thing will be changed.”
Fraternities change 
their alcohol policies
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
For reasons that are unclear, Theta 
Xi and Delta Tau Delta (.DTD) have 
changed their alcohol policies at their 
parties in the past few weeks.
Gardner Garrick, head of the Inter 
Fraternity Council (IFC), said, “Theta 
Xi is dry for the semester.” The reason, 
according to Carrick, stemmed from 
an incident that allegedly involved a 
sorority pledge. Carrick admitted that 
he wasn’t sure of the details of the 
alleged incident. Theta Xi would not 
comment on the situation.
DTD has also undergone changes in 
their alcohol policies. According to 
Dave Berwick, President of DTD, 
“We’re going BYOB.” He went on to 
say, “We’re doing this on our own.” 
Berwick also stated that the Univer­
sity is not forcing this change nor is 
there an incident that caused this 
change. Berwick did say that DTD 
was meeting with the University to­
day. Carrick, however, said there was 
an incident that resulted in this policy 
change. The alleged incident that led 
to this occurred on December 5. Carrick 
said that a student was taken to the 
hospital to have his stomach pumped, 
because he had too much to drink.
Chris Cenkner, head of the Greek 
Council, said that the changes in the 
policies were voluntary. “As far as I 
understand, they were not forced to do 
this,” he said. “They were choices that 
the chapters made."
Cenkner expressed his appreciation 
that the fraternities were taking re­
sponsibility for their own actions. “It’s 
good taking a step before [something] 
happens.” He was pleased with the 
fraternities for taking the initiative 
and changing their own policies. “Self- 
government is something we’ve been 
trying to instill into the fraternities.”
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy and Chief of Campus Police 
James LaPaglia, both would not com­
ment specifically about the situations.
Crime and Incident Report
1/13 OPENLEWDNESS, 9:42 
pm. A security guard reported 
hat a male had urinated near 
he Morewood Avenue steps of 
¿orewood Gardens. Two officers 
ater stopped the actor, who ad- 
nitted the act and stated that he 
s on blood pressure medicine 
which causes him to urinate a lot, 
land that he did not know if there 
was a men’s room nearby. The 
jjjuard warned him that his next 
iffense would result in a citation, 
and told him that a copy of the 
eport would be forwarded to his 
employer at Dining Services.
1/14 UNAUTHORIZED USE,
[12:09 am. Four officers reported 
to Roselawn #4 after receiving a 
call that a light had been turned 
off at this residence. The officers 
discovered a number of individu­
als who were sleeping. They said 
they had proof from Housing that 
they could stay there for two 
days due to an event the next 
day. However, nobody could pro­
duce proof of their being allowed 
to stay. Due to the event, the 
¦individuals were allowed to stay, 
•hey were informed that a report 
would be filed with Housing when 
they opened.
1/14 UNAUTHORIZED USE,
3:20 am. A security guard re- 
I ported that there was a light on 
in the Doherty Grad area. There 
were also noise and loud voices 
from inside.
Officers entered the apartment 
and discovered drug parapher­
nalia on the table, the items listed 
were in plain view, and consisted 
°f a marijuana pipe, cigarette 
Papers, a cigarette roller, and 
E°me crumpled paper which held 
a butane lighter and seeds of some 
type. A check of the apartment 
also revealed a baggie containing 
a green, vegetable type sub­
stance. The substance was later 
shown to contain THC.
1/14 THEFT ,8:06 pm. A stu­
dent reported that over the New 
; Jear weekend, someone removed 
$160 and a mouse worth $70 from 
his locked room. There was no 
forced entry to the room.
1/18 SIMPLE ASSAULT ,1:15 
An officer parked in the 
Morewood circle observed a van 
fitting in the northbound lane 
! Being toward Fifth Avenue. The 
*°nt passenger door was open. 
|VVo people ran across Morewood 
Avenue toward the van. The van 
pulled away with the people run- 
behind it. The sliding door 
<ien slammed open and the two 
People jumped in and the van 
Pulled away.
The officer looked where the 
People had run from and saw a 
Person on the grass on his hands 
^ knees. One of the assailants 
the victim had spit in his face ‘tn a bar in Oakland. Both
! We,1 ? t^lrown out, and the assail- 
.a® happened to see the victim on
Morewood Avenue, where he got 
out of the van and punched him. 
The victim was treated for a slight 
fracture of the nose, a cut in his 
mouth that required four stitches, 
and bumps and bruises to the 
face.
1/16 UNAUTHORIZED 
PARTY, 12:21 am. Campus Po­
lice received reports of a loud 
party in Doherty Grad Apart­
ments. The music was very loud; 
the officer knocked several times 
before someone opened the door. 
The occupants were asked to turn 
the music off and leave if they did 
not live there. Approximately fif­
teen people exited the apartment. 
A half a case of beer was poured 
down the sink, and several cans 
were confiscated.
1/17 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
10:12 am. An officer was informed 
by the desk attendant in Mudge 
House that an unnamed student 
told him that when he went to 
play the piano, all the keys were 
missing.
The desk attendant told the 
officer that an RA information 
session had been held in the room 
between 7:20 and 8:20. The head 
RA of Mudge were not sure if the 
keys were there during the meet­
ing or not.
1/17 THEFT, 3:15 pm. A stu­
dent approached an officer and 
reported that he set his book bag 
on the lockers the bookstore, as 
required, and went inside to buy 
a book. When he returned, the 
bag, which contained $150 worth 
of books, was missing. Later that 
evening, another student entered 
the Police office with the bookbag, 
stating that he had taken some­
one else’s by accident. The bag 
was eventually returned.
1/18 THEFT, 1:11 pm. Several 
computer related items were 
taken from a room in GSIA, which 
was locked, sometime the previ­
ous evening.
The items were a 500 MB In­
ternal Drive valued at $279, a 
MA CD Bundle valued at $130, 
an OmniPage Pro valued at $199, 
and a copy of Pagemaker valued 
at $549. A total of $1457 worth of 
equipment was stolen.
1/23 THEFT, 9:30 pm. A stu­
dent entered Campus Police Com­
munications Center and reported 
that approximately $20.00 in 
quarters and dimes were taken 
from his room. He said the coins 
were contained in two glass con­
tainers which were sitting on his 
desk.
1/24 VEHICLE ACCIDENT,
6:22 pm. Officers responded to an 
accident that was dispatched over 
the Pittsburgh Police dispatch 
radio. The City Police and Pitts­
burgh Medics were already at the 
scene.
The medic said it appeared the
patient had suffered a shoulder 
injury. Apparently the victim was 
riding his bicycle headed north 
on Morewood Avenue and as he 
was crossing the intersection, a 
driver heading south on 
Morewood turning east on Fifth 
Avenue struck the victim at the 
intersection. The bicyclist struck 
the windshield causing the en­
tire windshield to shatter. The 
patient was treated for a dislo­
cated shoulder.
1/25 RECKLESS DRIVING,
11:50 am. A guard radioed that 
he saw a car driving on the cut. It 
went from Baker Hall past 
Doherty Hall to the Warner Hall 
parking lot, traveling at around 
25 miles per hour.
The officer saw the car pull into 
the Student Center driveway 
where it screeched to a halt and 
tried to go backward down the 
hill. The driver was issued a 
citation and was warned to oper­
ate his vehicle in a responsible
1/25 THEFT, 5:26 pm. A stu­
dent said someone removed his 
unlocked 24 inch blue and green 
Hardrock mountain bike from the' 
Shirley basement rack. The value 
of the bike is approximately 
$300.00.
1/26 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
12:32 am. A staff member stated 
that when he went to exit his 
office area in Wean 3601-B, he 
found a large pile of sawdust and 
wood lying at the bottom of 
Architect’s Leap. He was con­
cerned that someone could be­
come seriously injured. ABM was 
notified to clean up the area.
1/26 INSTITUTIONAL VAN­
DALISM, 10:16 pm. Officers re­
sponded to a call where it was 
reported that water was running 
all over the bathroom floor. They 
found that someone had pulled 
the sink from the wall on the 
third floor north end men’s bath­
room in CFA. The water leaked 
down through the second floor 
studio ceilings causing some wa­
ter damage.
The Tartan punts the weekly 
Crime and Incident report under 
the following guidelines:
• ChiefofCampus Police, James 
LaPaglia, reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
Compiled by 
MAX CHITTISTER
Tuesday
Four-Day Forecast
Wednesday Thursday Friday
Mostly sunny with the Itwill be cloudy out with Snow showeres likely Continued snow flurries
highs to be somewhere in breezyconditions. Highs with the lows to be in the with the temperature to
the low 40s. will be in the low 20s. high teens. be around 10 degrees.
ATTENTION 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Undergraduates and 
Graduate Students
Looking for a Summer Job?
Want to Gain Valuable, Career-Related 
Work Experience?
Join The Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
For a University Summer Jobs Program 
Information Session and Pizza Break 
Monday, February 6, 1995 
Student Center, Room 207 
7:30-9 pm 
Sign up in the Placement Office 
January 30 - February 3
Attend to find out about actual summer job op­
portunities with Pittsburgh-based high technol­
ogy companies and let us help you find “real 
world” experience this summer.
Dress — Casual Resumes — Required

---------------------------------------------------

Before you need to make a single payment, Mercury will have orbited the sun, your New Year’s resolutions will have been broken and the love of your life will have come and gone at least three times.
AXT AThXerwras
Only $1,736. Or about $33- a month. ’
BUY AN APPLE MACINTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER.*
We’re not just making it easier for you to buy a Macintosh’ we’re making it easier 
for you to buy something else you really need—time. Because for a limited 
time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can 
own a Macintosh personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph­
erals without making a single payment for 90 days: Combine that with no hassles, 
no complicated forms and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use 
Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day 
Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the 
power every student needs. The power to be your best” Apple*
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store
or call 268-2
fiput
636
Power Macintosh' 8100/80 w/CD 
16MB RAM/500MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
17" color display, keyboard and mouse.
Deferred Affile Computer loan offer expires February 17, ¡995. No payment of interest or principal uili be rapirmifor 90 day's. (Some resellers may require a deposit to bold merchandise ubile loan is being appmed) Inleresl accruing during this 90-day period uitlbe added 10 principal, and the 
principal amount, asso increased, uill thereafter bear interest wbicb will be included in tbe repayment schedule. ’Monthly payment is an estimate based on the folbwiitg information: For the Peiforma' 636w/CD system shown here, a purchase price of $1,85752, which indudes 7% sales tar, indudmg 
loan fees, tbe total loan amount is Si,965.63, which results in a monthly payment obligation of $33- For tbe Peiforma' 6115 w/CD system shown here, a purchase price of$3,20358, which indudes 7% sales tax; including loan fees, the total loan amount is $3,390.03, wbicb results in a monthly payment 
obligation of $58. For tbe Potar Macintosh' 8100/80 w/CD system sbouv bere, a purchase price of $5372.47, wbicb indudes 7% sales lax; induding loan fees, tbe total loan amount is $5,685.15, which results in a monthly payment obligation of $95. Computer system prices, loan amounts and sales taxes 
may vary. See your autbortcd Apple Campus Reseller or representative for current system prices, loan and tax amounts. Loans are for a minimtan of $1,000 to a maximum of $10,000. You may take out more than one loan, but the total ofall loans cannot exceed $10,000 annually. A 55% loan 
origination fee will be added to tbe requested loan amount. Tbe inleresl rate is variable, based on tbe commercial paper rate plus 535%. For the month ofNovember, 1994, the interest rale was 10.85% witb an Annual Percentage Rate of 12.10%. 8-yvar loan term uilb no prepayment penalty. Tbe monthly 
payment and tbe Annual Percentage Rate shown assume lbs 90-day deferment of principal and interest described above and no other deferment of principal or interest. Student; may defer principal payments up to 4 years, or until graduation. Deferment will change your monthly payments. Tbe Apple 
Computer Loan is subject to credit apfiwi al. Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan offers at ailable only to qualifying students, faculty, and staff. Offers available onlyfrom Apple or an authorized Apple Campus Reseller or representative ©1994Apple Computer, Inc All rights 
reserved Apple, the Apple logo, AtacinJasb, Petforma and 'Tbe power to beyour best" are registeral trademarks of Apple Comptder, Inc AppleDessgnandPower Macintosh arc trademarks ofApple Computer, Ina
Theirs. Ours.
First relational database. First to implement SQL. First portable database software. First database compatible with massively parallel computing. First database 
to perform 1,000 transactions per second. First cooperative-server database. But Oracle is not just about databases. We’re also leaders in advanced 
networking. CASE, application development, office automation, development tools, multimedia. You can see, we’re also about success.
BS/MS CS/EE. You can become a: Software Developer • Technical Analyst • Consultant • Product Manager
We’ll be on campus March 8 & 9. E-mail your resume TODAY!
ORACLE
Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: lslynn@us.oracle.com / FAX: 415-506-1073 / PHONE: 415-506-6991
Macintosh Performa" 636 w/CD 
8MB RAM/250MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
14" color display, keyboard, mouse and all the 
software you’re likely to need.
Only $2,994. Or about $58. a month.'
Macintosh Performa' 6115 w/CD 
8MB RAM/350MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
15" color display, keyboard, mouse and all 
the software you’re likely to need.
Only $5,021. Or about $95- a month/

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 19955
Student Senate MinutesSenate questions finances
;ENATE, from page 1
The one abstention was Troy Benowitz, H&SS 
¡enator and Human Resources Chair. “I thought 
over and decided 
both sides were 
¿nda faulty. Solab- 
¡tained,” he said.
Atkinson, who 
•oted for impeach­
ment, commented 
the harrassment 
harges reported in 
he Tartan. “[It] 
nade me feel un- 
,asy. Reading the 
¡rticle, I was as- 
funded that a plea 
if guilty was entered 
,0 a charge of ha­
rassment. I am sure 
jiere are other cir- 
•umstances that I 
un not aware of, but 
his fact alone tells 
ne that I should 
gestión myself as
o whether or not I 
vant him to be the 
igurehead of our Student Body,” he said.
Joe DeMasi, an MCS Senator, said, “I voted to 
start impeachment proceedings, partly be­
cause there seems.to be a major concern that 
Declan spent funds inappropriately ... If 
)eclan is guilty of this harassment charge, I 
lefinitely think he should not be the leader of 
he student body. If students don’t like the 
ictions of Declan, or of Senate, I encourage 
hem to contact their Senate representative 
as soon as possible.”
Dillon Lin, a CFA Senator, voted against 
impeachment. “The assault/harassment is­
sue is being handled by a separate authority 
and could not, in my opinion, be aptly handled 
}y Student Government. If he is indeed found 
»uilty by that... authority, the issue can be 
Drought up in front of Senate again, in my... 
opinion... the financial issue does not need an 
sntire hearing.”
Michael Grant, a Heinz Senator, also voted 
against. “I didn’t have enough time to weigh the 
issues. The issues weren’t clear to me, as well as 
f the charges could be refuted.
“There are a lot of things that could not be made
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer 
Student Government President Declan 
McCullagh pleads his case.
public.”
In response to McCullagh’s claims concerning 
his accusers, Duane T. Williams, a Senior Re­
search Programmer, made a post to the 
government bulletin board which stated 
“Declan tried to get Student Senate this 
evening to believe that Donna Riley brought 
a personal UDC charge against Pat Mooney. 
That is not true and Declan very well 
knows it.”
Apparently the charge was brought by 
cmuOUT as an organization, and Riley 
and Williams together presented the case 
at the hearing on behalf of cmuOUT. 
“Declan knows that the complaint cannot 
be fairly attributed to Donna because 
Declan was himself personally involved in 
drafting the complaint, as were several 
other members of cmuOUT,” Williams said.
McCullagh was contacted several times 
to speak about these allegations but re­
fused to comment on the record.
The bylaws of the Student Body state 
that the President may be impeached by a 
two-thirds vote of Student Senate, or by a 
petition signed by 500 students.
After receiving a request for impeach­
ment, the Chair of Student Senate will 
announce the impeachment request at the first 
meeting at least one week after the request. The
impeachment 
takes place at 
the first meet­
ing after the 
announce­
ment. Three- 
fourths of the 
Student Sena­
tors must be 
present.
A three- 
fourths vote of 
the senators 
present is re­
quired to re­
move the offi­
cial from office.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Sheryl Gach gives heropinion on whether 
to Impeach their President or not.[Ed. Note - 
Tartan News Editor, Edward Hayes, Tartan Per­
sonal Manager, Angela Molloy, and Tartan 
Staffwriter, Bill Vandermark, assisted with this 
article.]
Carnegie Mellon Almanac
, 50 Years Ago (1/23/45) — The Tartan reported 
fifThe annual exhibition of the Associated Artists of 
i Pittsburgh will be held at the galleries of Carnegie 
Institute from February 15 to March 15. Each 
member and candidate member of the Associate 
Artists is eligible to enter two pieces of his work for 
exhibition.”
25 Years Ago (1/23/70) — “CMU students may 
) on record as the first ones ever to throw marsh­
mallows at a Senator,” The Tartan chuckled. “The 
target of a handful of vociferous antagonists in the 
audience in the Skibo Ballroom was Strom 
Thurmond. The Senator survived the barrage and 
later said “I’ve never seen anything like it.”
10 Years Ago (1/22/85)—“A new center for Iron
and Steel Making Research will be based at 
Camegie-Mellon Department (MEMS),” The Tar­
tan reported. “According to Center Director Dr. 
Richard Fruehan, the National Science Founda­
tion (NSF) and a dozen Pittsburgh companies will 
sponsor the Center’s research. The total budget for 
the Center is expected to run $460,000 per year.
5 Years Ago (1/23/90) — The Tartan reported 
“The first major gift to the University Center 
campaign has been made by Carnegie Mellon 
Trustee Thomas McConomy and his wife Eileen. 
Both are Carnegie Tech alumni.
“He said that he and his wife ‘wanted to make 
[the gift] to something we thought was important 
to the University. McConomy graduated from 
Carnegie Tech in 1955.”
Correction...
In tile article entitled, “ CMU student gunned down in gang-related attack,” Javon Thompson’s 
mother was identified as Adrian Young. The correct spelling of her name was Adriane Young.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you. know of an error, please contact Lauren Heinz 
<*1x8-2111, or write h er in care of The Tartan.
STUDENT 
SENATE
Meeting of 24 January 1995
Roll was taken at 5:00 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
5:05 PM.
Senators Present: Ardire 
(IM), Atkinson (CIT), Babyak 
(MCS), Benowitz (HSS), Bielke 
(CIT), Coster (CIT), Demasi 
(MCS), Franklin (HSS), Gal-or 
(CIT), Gallo (HSS), Gonzalez 
(MCS), Grant (Heinz), Holzman 
(CIT), Hudson (HSS), Keir (CIT), 
Lin (CFA), Miller (GSIA), Mielke 
(IM), Patel (CIT), Rand (SCS), 
Sharpe (HSS), Tuxen (CFA), 
White (HSS).
Senators Absent: Bott (CFA), 
Cote (GSIA), Greynolds (CIT), 
Miller (CIT), Studarus (Misc), 
Valko (GSIA).
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Martin Dixon): This week’s 
movies are: Thursday, The River's 
Edge; Friday, Drugstore Cow­
boy, and Sunday, The Corpse 
Grinders.
Three bands will be playing at 
the CMU Women’s Center on 
Saturday, January 28, at 8:00 
pm.
The Beaux Arts Ball will be 
held on February 11 from 9 pm - 
3 am in the CFA Building.
GSO (Olive Schulte): Room 221 
of the Student Center will be the 
new home of the Wean Wok. It
will be open weekdays for lunch. 
Cold food carts will be available 
after hours. Our next meeting 
will be on February 1 at 5:30 pm 
in Room 201 of the Student Cen­
ter. 0
Greek Council: At our last 
meeting we elected our officers.
Faculty Senate (Anne 
Shields): No report.
Student Affairs (Kevin 
Hughes): No report.
SDC (Adam Davis): Saturday’s 
movie is The Lion King. It will be 
shown at 5:30 pm, 7:00 pm, 8:30 
pm, 10:00 pm, 11:30 pm, and 1:00 
am.
President: (Declan
McCullagh): Scotland Yard
opened on Friday, January 20 in 
the old Morewood Rec Room. 
Thanks to all who helped.
Treasurer (Emma Gosden): 
Audits have just been finished, 
and four accounts have been fro­
zen: CMU Hockey Club, Lacrosse, 
The Doctors of Carnegie, and the 
Student Government President.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Kami 
White): No report.
Campus Affairs (Brenden 
Mielke): No report.
Funding and Recognition
(Merle Atkinson): No report.
Human Resources (Troy 
Benowitz): No report.
Public Relations (Eduardo 
Gonzalez): No report.
Chair (Burt Holzman): 
Keycards are available for new 
Senators.
Motion to Impeach the Stu­
dent Body President:o
Motion to Call the Previous 
Question: Passed 21- 0
Failed 10-10-1
Announcements:
• Vacancies: 3 CFA, 1 Heinz, 1 
MCS. Deadline for petitions is 
February 5.
• The School for Leadership 
will be held on Sunday, February
5. ContactAnneWitchnertosign 
up.
• A memorial service for Javon 
Thompson will be held on Thurs­
day, January 26
• The spring activities fair will 
be held on Tuesday, January 31 
on the Drill Deck of the Student 
Center.
• There will be a Blood Drive 
on Friday, January 27. Contact 
Katie Stannard for details.
• The grand opening party for 
Scotland Yard will be held on 
January 27.
• There will be a Skibo Pit 
Tour on January 27. Contact 
Declan McCullagh to sign up.
Meeting adjourned at 6:18 pm.
Submitted by 
BENBOSTWICK
Edited by 
MAX CHITTISTER
Pizza:
Voted the #1 
Pizza in Pittsburgh 
by the Post Gazette.
Our competitor’s 
pizza was com­
pared to “card­
board with sauce.”
Try the rest, buy 
the best!
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
682-7272
Carryout Special
One 14” Large One Topping
99$5.
PAPA JOHN’S VALUE MENU
10” Small14” Large16” Extra Large
Cheese Pizza4.956.959.95
OneTopping5.657.9510.95
Two Topping6.358.9511.95
Three Topping7.059.9512.95
Four Topping7.7510.9513.95
Five Topping8.4511.9514.95
Garden Special7.2510.2513.25
Mushrooms, Onion. Green Pepper, & Black Olives
The Works™8.4511.9514.95
Pepperoni, Ham, Sausage, Mushrooms, Onion, Green Peppers, & Black Olives
TOPPINGS
Ham
Pepperoni 
Sausage 
Ground Beef 
Bacon 
Anchovies 
Extra Cheese 
Mushrooms 
Onions 
Black Olives 
Green Olives 
Green Peppers 
Jalapeno Peppers
Ever Get Somebody Totally Wnsted?
EXTRAS
Breadsticks...................................... 1.79
Delicious oven-baked sticks with plenty 
of Papa John’s Special Galic Sauce &
Nacho Cheese Sauce
Extras......................................................28
Extra Pepperoncini, Special Galic 
Sauce, Nacho Green Sauce
Cheesesticks.................................. 3.20
A Chicago-cut taste treat smothered in 
cheese & Special Garlic Sauce
Drinks......................................................61
12 oz. can of Coca-Co/a® classic,
Spritd® or diet Cokd®
Prices do not include sales tax
U
Party Special™
One 14" Large with The Works™ 
& One 14” Large Two Toppings
dyCh95
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Party Specials 
!>€.98.,
One 
14" Large 
One Topping 
or > 
Two 
14" Large 
One Topping*11;98
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
Perfect Brunch or 
Late Night Munch
One 10" Pizza One Topping & 
Two Cans of Coca-Cola classic
$C 99
'Qafu +tax
(Daily 11am-4pm, 9pm-close) 
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University30 January 1995
Tuition increases should bring 
about campus improvements
Tuition has increased another 
three percentage points this semes­
ter, and while we’re not surprised, 
we are concerned. The administra­
tion has attempted to justify the 
increase, saying it’s the smallest 
increase since 1975 (when tuition 
did not change) and matches rising 
inflation rates.
That’s nice, but tuition is so high 
now that smaller percentages still 
mean large-than-life increases (you 
don’t need Modem Math to figure 
that one out). Such an increase 
poses a real threat to the many 
students here receiving financial 
aid. Tuition at CMU, and almost 
all private universities, rises faster 
than inflation, but how can this 
justify an increase?
If you are really motivated, you 
can always check out the 
University’s Annual Budget Re­
port, but these sheets of paper will 
not give you the reasoning behind 
the University’s business decisions. 
The extra money will not go to the 
University Center because it is be­
ing funded totally by donors.
Carnegie’s Mellon’s incessant tu­
ition increases seem embarrassing 
in the face of other private schools 
who have attempted to alleviate 
the financial strains placed on their 
students. The University of Roch­
ester, a high quality private college 
that is comparable to CMU, has a 
new policy on tuition increases. 
They found that as they increased 
tuition, per capita revenue de­
creased. Apparently, higher tuition
caused non-aid students at Roch­
ester to attend public schools. The 
result: fewer people who could 
afford a private education applied 
to Rochester and the school 
needed to spend more money on 
financial aid. In order to attract 
more non-aid students, the school 
lowered tuition by $5000 for in­
state students and children of 
alumni.
Let’s face it ... we are paying 
more for a product that is not any 
better than it was last year. The 
University has made a few im­
provements at a painstakingly 
slow pace. Some classrooms are 
being renovated and Wean Hall 
5419 has new Power Macs. How­
ever, we still have the unsightly 
Carnegie Mellon Trailer Park 
outside Porter Hall and tempo­
rary fraternities in need of some 
long-term renewal. The under­
graduate chemistry labs are in 
dire need of major renovation, 
CFA students need more studio 
space, the sororities need fire es­
capes, and Hamerschlag House, 
well... it needs to go!
The University must become 
more cost-efficient. If we are go­
ing to pay more for an education 
here, conditions have to improve. 
Students should be consulted on 
tuition increases and budget de­
cisions. Carnegie Mellon should 
look into achange in tuitionpolicy 
similar to Rochester’s. At the very 
least, tuition should not increase 
faster than inflation.
Senate, University obligated to 
impeach Student Gov’t President
A flurry of accusations sur­
rounded Student Government 
President Declan McCullagh at last 
week’s Student Senate meeting. In 
addition to the previous charges of 
abuse against McCullagh by two 
former girlfriends — and his con­
viction for harassment—were new 
allegations of financial wrong-do- 
ing from Senate Treasurer Emma 
Gosden and a number of Senators.
Gosden froze McCullagh’s bud­
get because of the deficit he’s run­
ning. Several Senators have ac­
cused him of using his office’s funds 
for personal expenses, including 
an apparently unauthorized corpo­
rate credit card McCullagh applied 
for, and $270 in unexplained meal 
expenditures. He continues to 
stonewall these accusations. He 
claims that he is legally unable to 
answer the charges of abuse, and 
says that he can justify the unau­
thorized expenditures. Thus far, 
he has produced no documentation 
and has made no attempt to ex­
plain himself.
Even more disturbing is 
McCullagh’s attempts to discredit 
the women who have charged him 
with domestic violence. He claims 
that the charges are politically mo­
tivated, but offers no theories as to 
¦ what their motivation might be. 
His weak assertion that “he will be 
exonerated” is laughable, especially 
since he has already plead guilty to 
the harassment charges. How, we 
ask, does he intend to clear his 
name of a crime he has confessed to 
and been convicted of?
We’re not sure why McCullagh 
feels that he should be above the 
regulations that bind other Sen­
ate-funded institutions. We’re not 
sure why he feels that he should 
not abide by the common rules of 
decency that bind the rest of us. We 
can’t explain why he thinks he 
should not have to answer to Sen-
GooP MEtusj THIS TiMEj /'M oùi>l 
IUCR.6A<>|tOG IT THfcEÉ PÉdCÉpf/
© \-3t-1S lUTtXt+'tUt
Letters to the Editor
Actions alienate 
Pitt co-worker
Letter to 
the Editor
ate or to his constituents. But 
we’re appalled that a motion to 
impeach McCullagh failed, after 
Senate decided to close debate on
the issue because it “didn’t haveearenough information.”
McCullagh accused this news­
paper of “yellow journalism” dur­
ing his report to Senate Tuesday, 
calling our story “one-sided.” This 
accussation is both unfounded 
and false. How can quotations 
taken word for word from a pohce 
report be biased? McCullagh was 
given every chance to defend him­
self in last week’s article, and 
failed to do so. We still welcome 
him to enlighten the campus on 
the reasons behind his actions.
We stand by our original edito­
rial position. McCullagh should 
resign; he is not a fit representa­
tive of the student body. If he 
does not resign, then Student 
Senate should move again to im­
peach him. This time, we expect 
all of its members to have a firm 
grasp of the facts. We also en­
courage the petition drive under­
way to remove McCullagh from 
office. Only five hundred signa­
tures are needed to induce an 
automatic impeachment.
Further, the University should 
take action in regard to 
McCullagh’s actions. Harassment 
policy, as it is outlined in the 
Student Handbook, states 
“Carnegie Mellon is firmly com­
mitted to intellectual honesty, 
freedom of inquiry, and expres­
sion and respect for the dignity of 
each individual. Acts of harass­
ment and intimidation of any 
member of the community are 
inconsistent with this committ­
ment and will not be tolerated.” It 
is time for the administration to 
stand by their notion of “intoler­
ance” for harassment and take 
immediate disciplinary action .
Editor:
I am writing in sup­
port of your call for the 
resignation of Student 
Body President Declan 
McCullagh. As a third- 
year student at the University of Pitts­
burgh and an active member of BiGALA, 
I had the experience of working with Mr. 
McCullagh during this semester. In light 
of Mr. McCullagh’s history of violence 
towards women, I will no longer interact 
with him on a personal or professional 
basis. I encourage the students of CMU 
to take the same action. In addition, I 
ask the student body of CMU, as well as 
the administration, to consider the mes­
sage you convey by allowing a man who 
sexually and physically abuses women 
to represent and “lead” the student body. 
In what direction will such a man lead 
you?
Michelle L. Wirtb 
Junior
University of Pittsburgh
Charges shown 
in different light
on
Letter to the Editor
Editor:
Your revelations 
about the conflict 
between Declan 
McCullagh and 
Donna Riley [“Stu­
dent Gov’t President gives ‘guilty’ plea,” 
1/23] were sensational indeed, but some 
context was missing. While I take no 
one’s credibility to be unimpeachable, I 
am sympathetic to what McCullagh says 
about the political nature of the allega­
tions against him. Riley helped pros­
ecute me last spring for the speech crime 
of calling an elected politician a para­
noid megalomaniac. Riley sought to 
color the hearing with allegations of 
sexism, but the UDC panel, immersed in 
the evidence, essentially laughed them 
off. Despite this failure, Riley set out to 
find sexism come hell or high water 
[FOCUS, “The threat of a strong female 
leader,” March/April ‘94]. The results 
were startling. She took “having an axe 
to grind” as a reference to a certain 
“battleaxe archetype,” and, hence, sex­
ist. “Small-minded” became the cue that 
“hearkened back to the days when men 
weighed women’s brains to prove they 
were smaller and therefore inferior.” My 
impression, based largely on my turn at 
the dock, is that Riley makes a career of
academic and theoretical oppression. In 
whatever tussle she had with McCullagh, 
her personal investment in her politics 
leaves no conceivable role for any kind of 
mitigating circumstance or inconvenient 
fact, let alone any responsibility she 
might hold.
The Tartan might have asked more 
questions. I can understand the trepida­
tion one feels, especially in a college 
environment, about questioning a claim 
of oppression made by someone who is 
vulnerable according to political or aca­
demic theory. However, the FOCUS 
essay and similar examples were well 
known to The Tartan, and as a witchhunt 
survivor I was willing to go on the record. 
The pattern in these details is material 
to her current allegations, yet The Tar­
tan ignored it, while quite happily put­
ting McCullagh in the stock. This was a 
serious error. Even as society comes to 
grips with the reality of domestic abuse, 
we cannot afford to abandon due pro­
cess. Much as Dean Murphy has no 
business turning playground vendettas 
into felony charges and trying them in 
Kangaroo Court, The Tartan has no busi­
ness evaluating them in such a solemn 
fashion without some attempt at a criti­
cal investigation.
Erik Altmann 
SCS grad
Holiday should 
promote history
may create a tone of diversity in son;: 
courses which would not be there other­
wise.
To create a tradition of diversity teach­
ing on the first day of class, the demand 
has to come from the students, not the 
administration, just as the original de­
mands for diversity in classes came from 
the students.
In response to the last part of the 
January 23 Forum article,where the 
lack of commitment to diversity is pre­
dicted to turn away potential students,I 
think a tradition of discussion during 
classes might be far more potent than a 
day off. King should be honored, but not 
at the expense of his primary message. 
Civil rights and equality, as King 
preached it, and diversity still needs to 
be integrated into our courses and con­
science. These issues are not a one day or 
year event, but should be be considered 
continuously.
The Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. holi­
day should be used as a jumping off 
point, not as an end, which it will become 
if made a non-class day.
Roland de Filippi 
Masters Student 
Architecture
Misaddressed 
mail a nuisance
Editor:
Editor:
In the January 
23 edition of the 
Tartan, many ar­
ticles express 
opinions against
Letter to the Editor
Letter to the Editor
the administration’s decision to not cel­
ebrate the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr 
holiday. While I respect these opinions, 
I feel an opportunity is being lost and 
that celebrating King with this holiday 
may not be in the best interest of his 
philosophy.
Assuming that the administration does 
not change its mind on giving this day off 
from classes, professors could use this 
day as an opportunity to introduce the 
people involved in the fields they are 
teaching, emphasizing contributions 
made by minority researchers or dis­
cussing why minority researchers have 
not become involved in that particular 
field of study.
Because King’s birthday falls on the 
first day of classes, devoting the day to 
this kind of an introduction should not 
create conflicts with other work, and
OiEvery semester, 
a large amount of 
mail addressed to 
students who no 
longer live in Uni­
versity housing passes through the Uni­
versity mail system.
Much of this misaddressed mail is 
from University offices such as the Reg­
istrar, the Cashier, or Financial Aid 
Important notices concerning, for in­
stance, loan checks, schedules, or grades 
are often delayed, or may never reach 
the intended student.
This can be a headache for the Univer­
sity ofgces, for the people who work in 
the mailrooms, and particularly for the 
student. To avoid any problems, every 
student who is moving out of University 
housing should register a change of ad­
dress not only at the Resnik or the 
Morewood mail room, but also at the 
Registrar in Warner Hall. Once the 
Registrar has your new address, all mail 
from the University offices will be sent 
directly to you.
Edward Pitchford 
Supervisor 
Resnik MailroomEducation comes before MLK Day
James Stepanek
This is CMU, right? We did pay, oh, 
$18,000 or so to come here right? Now, 
for that kind of money, people would 
want to get every damn bit of education 
out of the place that’s possible. So what 
was the last issue of The Tartan all 
awash with? Complaints about how we
missed a day of vacation.
Certainly I’m not going to say that 
Martin Luther King Jr. was not a man to 
be greatly admired and respected, but 
there have been a large number of people 
who have done great things throughout 
history, and we don’t take days off for all 
of them. In fact, here at CMU, we don’t 
take days off for any of them. We get 
Mid-semester, Thanksgiving, Winter 
and Spring Breaks. That’s it. CMU is 
one of the top schools in the nation and 
that was not achieved by taking vaca­
tions all the time.
People already complain about then 
workloads being too harsh, yet to cut out 
a day is to heap more upon the days that 
remain, either that or diminish the total 
subject covered. Neither of these option5 
is acceptable. The University has stan- 
dards to maintain, and to reduce coursf 
load would be to diminish the stature o. 
the institution. Didn’t you come heft 
because of the stature of the institution 
It isn’t a party school, in case you haven1* 
noticed.
Now, of course, one can say that MLK-1 
Please see PHILOSOPHY, page'

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan » Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 19957
Stupidity lurks as close as your mailbox
Abby Schiff
Excuse me, but it’s snowing 
! and I’m bored. Nothing — save 
i for the excruciatingly slow O. J. 
i Simpson trial — has magically 
i appeared to chase away those
¦ pesky winter blahs. It’s time to 
' face the truth, America: hordes 
! of frustrated, mildly hostile, 
1 cable-deprived young adults 
| such as myself crave action.
And action we shall have. Fel- 
! low disgruntled Americans,
' when was the last time you cam-
¦ paigned for something that mat- 
; tered? Who cares anyway? Let’s
band together and Stamp Out 
| Stupidity!™
First rule: Know thy enemy.
| Stupidity is a frame of mind.
; You may not be able to define 
; stupidity, but you know it when 
. you see it. There’s no denying,
for example, that the TV pro­
gram Full House is stupid. Why? 
It just is, so don’t make me have 
to come over there with a tire iron 
and convince you. As with any 
fact of life, you must accept it and 
move on.
Stupid foodstuffs abound. 
Sliced beets. Herring. Instant fla­
vored oatmeal packets. Rutaba­
gas. Who likes rutabagas? Olive 
loaf — don’t even mention olive 
loaf. Rice cakes. YECCH! (If 
you’ve already begun composing 
your letter to the editor on how 
much you love rutabagas, you’re 
obviously not getting the mes­
sage. And for the confused among 
you, un-stupid foods include Host­
ess cupcakes, Jiffy muffin mix, 
Velveeta, and Smarties.)
Admit it: Garth Brooks TV spe­
cials are stupid. If the viewing 
public wanted to watch an over­
weight, loudmouthed dweeb strut 
his stuff, Rush Limbaugh wo old 
be on primetime. The Psychic 
Friends Network — call us up! 
Give us your money! Stupid? Well,
maybe not. Locally speaking, a 
certain Chevrolet dealership’s 
low-budget TV commercials tran­
scend stupid and actually suck 
brain matter out of your skull. 
Ditto for the trade school ads 
that have all but ruined af­
ternoon TV. Whine with me: 
it’s hard to enjoy quality pro­
gramming like Rescue 911 
amidst such trash. “Enroll 
now at Al’s Academy of Cos­
metology and Dentistry — a 
division of Computing Tech!” 
More like a division of stupid, 
perhaps?
Here’s a justifiable cause 
for panic: abysmally stupid 
products lurk as close as your 
own mailbox. I received a 
catalog that sold collectible 
teddy bears and—brace your­
self — outfits to dress the 
teddy bears up in. Talk about 
the moral decline of America! 
Newt Gingrich, take note: 
grown men and women are 
willingly exchanging money for 
teddy bear-sized “Hunny Bunny”
rabbit costumes, complete with it to continue. 
midget bunny slippers and re- The list goes on and on. How 
lated accessories. Forget stupid; much longer must we endure 
this is profoundly disturbing. As pinky rings? The tragedy that is
orange lipstick? Gold Chevy 
Camaros? Even if all else fails, 
can’t we at least do something 
about Barney ?
Obviously, this dreaded scourge 
is a matter you care about very 
deeply. You must, therefore, fight 
bravely in the trenches against 
it. Don’t stop until the battle is 
won -T- until the very notions of 
blue eye shadow, wax fruit, and 
ceramic dog figurines have been 
forever eradicated.
Don’t despair if the battle 
seems lost — those Full House 
twins have got to hit puberty 
sooner or later. Oh, and since 
you’re up, pass the remote. Cops 
is on soon.
AbbySchiff isprofessional writ­
ing major and a Tartan Contrib­
uting Editor whose class sched­
ule allows her to watch Rescue 
911 only three days a week.
©Tender Heart Treasurers, Ltd.
human beings bound by the natu­
ral laws of man, we cannot allow
Myths, figureheads still hold cakto es naHtos toi
Like Hitler and Stalin before him, John Paul II has 
been named Time magazine’s Man of the Year. It is 
interesting that in today’s “modem” era, myths and 
figureheads created long ago in the face of uncertainty 
and mortality still hold such power over us that many 
revere and honor this rigid, isolated man.
While the pope represents an ancient tradition, we 
believe ourselves to be sophisticated and rational. Unlike 
the times where people were persecuted merely for ob­
serving the world (ignoring the great inquisitions and 
ridiculous wars which continue today), we allege that the 
present is a more liberated and democratic time.
It is easy to say we would have sided with Gaiileo, the 
heathen who suggested that the Earth was not the center 
of the Universe and was condemned, threatened, and 
arrested by the church (a mistake not admitted until 
1992, over 650 years later). We are quick to contend that 
we would not have followed so silly a doctrine as human- 
centrism. But how can we believe we are any better?
Looking at the scale of the universe, the utter insignifi­
cance of our instantaneous existence around this minor
star is quite apparent.
But somehow, even with billions of galaxies contain­
ing literally hundreds of zillions (zillion = 1,000 trillion) 
of stars and a like number of planets, we believe that the 
Universe was made for us. Somehow, it remains our 
unquestioned assumption that we (humans, Americans, 
whites, etc.) are the chosen people, and the mythology 
we were raised to
What would we believe if we 
were bom into a rational com­
munity that never felt the need
believe holds the 
sole accurate un­
derstanding and 
explanation of the 
cosmos. Some­
how, we invent/ maccept a god if we for myths to explain the unfa
can’t explain ana ^ 
something (fire, Ifllll«/*». a
the sun, con- e——^— 
sciousness, etc.),
and even use these unknowns as arguments for a far 
more inexplicable and entirely unknowable, unques­
tionable, and unexplorable god.
Somehow, we can look at ourselves in the mirror 
without laughing.
An interesting experiment would be to stop, just for a 
second, and think. What would we believe if we were 
bom into a rational community that never felt the need 
for myths to explain the unfamiliar, but instead took to
investigation and experiment to explain the peculiar? 
How would we view existence if our parents saw life as 
a wondrous adventure to be explored and experienced, 
instead of a series of tests to endure and rules to follow 
so as to be awarded an “after” life? How would our lives 
be different if we were raised to believe that in an 
indifferent universe both good and bad things just
_______________ happen, and that the only control,
purpose, and meaning in life comes 
from within each of us?
What more could we accomplish if 
we decided that life is too short and 
too tenuous to accept the latest pro­
vincial set of superstitions, and we 
decided instead to think and act for 
ourselves?
And if a god exists and is somehow 
mmmsmmm concerned with the thoughts of a 
minor biped on a backwater world, it 
seems that our independence would make this god 
happy.
Given that we have the ability to think for ourselves, 
to explore the wonders of the world and the uniqueness 
of the universe, wouldn’t this be what a god would want 
for us? How could less be tolerable?
Matt Ball is a graduate student in Engineering and 
Public Policy.
Philosophy behind King forgotten by diversity agenda
EDUCATION, from page 6
birthday is a national holiday and should 
be observed. So what if it’s a national 
holiday? We blow all of those off as well. 
If you worked in the real world (not the 
government), you wouldn’t have this day 
off either. I was at a steel company work­
ing on a project that day.
Now, we can get to the heart of what 
The Tartan was complaining about: The 
fact that this holiday, which celebrates 
diversity, was ignored by the University. 
I have troubles with this. First of all, the 
University does not have a responsibility
¦ to provide for your entertainment, but 
rather your academic education. If people
¦ were truly interested in making an event
¦ of the day, they could have done it them­
selves. It was the first day of classes, so 
workload cancnot be claimed as an excuse.
- Many people were all too willing to take 
much time to complain, time which could 
have been better spent on efforts towards
1 the celebration of the memory of a great
man and his message. tween us rather than the things we have
I also have a bit of trouble in the way in common, 
that diversity was carried as the banner of Diversity is a cause of separation and 
the holiday. I really can’t see this as rea- differentiation. It would have the nation
The current agenda of the diversity crowd goes 
against integration and assimilation. They seek 
to highlight the differences between us rather 
than the things we have in common.
sonable.
Martin Luther King Jr. believed 
strongly in the integration of the people of 
this nation without regards to skin color or 
other factors. To paraphrase him, he said 
people should be judged not by their skin 
color, but by the content of their character. 
The current agenda of the diversity crowd 
goes against integration and assimilation. 
They seek to highlight the differences be-
become Balkanized, with a number of 
groups vying to have their causes seen as 
most important. There would be no com­
mon culture, language, or traditions. The 
diversity agenda believes in guaranteed 
outcomes for people based on their mem­
bership in a particular group. Does this 
sound like judging on the content of char­
acter? No, I’d say it is more akin to judging 
on skin color or religion. Equality of oppor­
tunity, not equality of outcome, is a 
foundation of the America.
Of course, I’m not saying we all need to 
be fully assimilated by the old Yankee 
culture. I’m not a Borg or anything. I 
believe in holding on to one’s traditions, 
but not to the exclusion of the fact that 
one is, in the end, an American. One does 
not have to be a hyphenated American 
to appreciate one’s heritage. I’m half 
Hispanic and I even cook some tradi­
tional dishes sometimes, but I don't count 
myself as other than American. America 
is the melting pot, not the mixing pot. 
The common bonds of language and cul­
ture serve to bring us together and give 
a sense of community as a whole. Let’s 
face it, the nation is better off as a 
coherent whole rather than as a haphaz­
ard jumble.
James Stepanek is a PhD student in 
MSE who imagines he may have kicked 
over a hornet’s nest with this one.
Student Senate worked 
hard to relocate Scotland 
yard, a popular cafe and 
hangout. Scotland Yard re­
opened last week in 
Morewood Gardens. What 
do you think of the new 
Scotland Yard?
Sherif Youssef
Freshman
ECE
“Actually, I haven’t been there 
yet.”
Stephanie Postal
Sophomore
ECE
“It’s not the same. It doesn’t 
have all the decorations.”
Kendra McCoy
freshman
ChemE
“I really haven’t been there 
yet.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Alex Derrick 
Freshman 
H&SS Undecided
“It’s cool. The problem is they 
only serve food till 11.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Ed.................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor..........Kris Hinrichs
Sports Editor.... Matthew Soiitro 
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney 
Jonmlchael L.T. Moy
Div. Editor........Paul Tabachneck
Calendar Ed......Roula Abdel-Baki
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne 
Acting Art Co-Eds.Gabrien Symons 
Francine Gemperle
Photo Editor................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr..........Derek Wahila
Personnel Mgr.......Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr.......................Eric Strauss
Systems Mgr..........Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed.........Max Chittlster
Asst. Sports Ed...........Paul Boothe
Asst. Div. Ed......Natalie Wochele
Asst. Prod. Mgr...............Kathy Liu
Darkroom Mgr...... Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Mgr...........David Perry
Contributing Editors 
Samuel Greenfield, Abby Schlff, 
Andrew Sproule, Jason Togyer
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Andrew McDermott
Staffwrlters 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, Eric 
Applewhite, John Biggs, Steven 
Burns, Darren Chlapetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Mahua Dutta, Dan 
Goldwasser, AnuJ Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, Vladimir 
Labeikovsky, David Osorio, Ronak 
Slnghal, Jon Slenk, James 
Stepanek, Bill Vandermark, 
Sharmila Venkatasubbeen, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Susan Watson, 
John Weber, Heather Zindle, Corey 
Zinn
Art
Justin Carroll, Mark Eggert, Amy 
Haupl
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunsklll, Nick 
Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Christopher Nelson, 
Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vlneet Agarwal,TusharDubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, Kerry 
Hagan, Janet Lee, Pat Prasangsit, 
Jason Siegendorf, Jackson Tam, 
Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings, 
Jen lirso
Production 
Heather Alexander, Carrie 
McDonough, Elizabeth Neuman, 
Shantanu Rana, Katie Swango
Copy
Lee Abernathy, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Winter Mason, 
Diane Ohm, Ed Slavishak, Richard 
Smolen, Roger Wang
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chintan 
Shah
Junior Staff 
Ido Ben-Shachar, Jessica Shlnla 
Fang, Beth Gariano, Michelle Hall, 
Adam Klivans, David Koran, Lester 
Manzano, Nicole Poisson, Emily 
Rosenthal, Lance Thomas, Aaron 
Weisberg
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub­
lished by students during the fall and spring semes­
ters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials appear­
ing at the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Col­
umns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
Individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter Intended for publica­
tion must be signed and Include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names may be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. 
Copyright © 1995 by The Tartan. The Tartan edito­
rial board reserves the right to withhold from publi­
cation any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mel­
lon University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

EXPAND YOUR HORIZONS
CAREER 
WEEK 95
-------------- FEBRUARY 6 to 10 --------------
EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT PLANNING YOURFUTURE!
•Career Exploration «Lifestyle Assessment
•Employment Survival Skills -Graduate School Choices
•Job Search Strategies «Experiential Learning
•Resume & Letter Campaign -Career Planning Resources
•Interviewing Skills -Technical Job Fair

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89, Issue 14The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania30 January 1995
Men’s basketball splits pair of UAA games
Tops Chicago, loses heartbreaker to Washington in OT
By LANCE THOMAS
Tartan Junior Staffwritter
The Tartans lost a 65-64 heartbreaker 
in overtime yesterday as they hosted the 
Bears of Washington University. Down 
41-28 at halftime, CMU slowly ate away 
at the Bears’ lead and forced the extra 
session when junior Jon Blanciak re­
ceived the ball in the paint and scored on 
a strong inside move.
The Bears remain perfect in confer­
ence play with an 8-0 record in the UAA, 
upping their overall record to 15-2. The 
Tartans dropped to 3-5 in the UAA after 
splitting the weekend homestand and 
have a 9-8 overall record. CMU defeated 
the University of Chicago on Friday, 85- 
74.
Tied at 60 going into overtime, the 
Tartans were unable to find the hoop as 
they were ice cold from the floor. CMU 
did not make a field goal until the final 
second when it was too late. As poorly as 
they shot in overtime, the Tartans still 
had a chance to win when sophomore 
Rich Bodnar drew a pushing foul from
Washington guard 
Gene Nolan with the 
Bears leading 63-62.
Although he is the 
best free throw 
shooter on the team 
and had hit two free 
throws just before the 
incident, Bodnar was 
unable to hit either 
shot from the line.
The Bears put in two 
more free throws to 
extend the lead to 
three and forced 
CMU to shoot a three- 
pointer in their final 
possession. The Tar­
tans could not get off 
a clean shot and 
Blanciak was forced 
to add only a put-back 
as time expired.
The key to the sec­
ond half comeback was defense. After 
allowing Washington to score 41 points 
in the first half, the Tartans came out
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Staff
Junior Jon Blanciak sails to the hoop over the defense in the Tartan’s win over Chicago. Blanclak’s field 
goal at the end of regulation sent the game into overtime against Washington.
from halftime possessed on the defen- missed shots. Averaging over 85 points 
sive end, forcing numerous turnovers per game this season, the Bears (ranked 
and crashing the boards to snatch up eleventh in the nation) could only mus­
ter 24 points in the second half and 
overtime combined.
A welcome return to the Tartans was 
the presence of junior Eric Ronzio, who 
had been out of action due to an injury. 
Although he had no points in the Wash­
ington game, he grabbed eight rebounds 
and played and pivotal role on the defen­
sive end of the court.
Coach Tony Wingen said, “He [Ronzio] 
is one of the unsung heroes on this team. 
He plays good defense, is a good passer, 
and is a good leader.”
Blanciak led the Tartans against 
Washington with eighteen points and 
twenty rebounds. Junior Kevin Byrne 
scored 15 points, pulled down 13 boards, 
and had four assists. Bodnar pitched in 
ten and Senior captain Steve Athenas 
had 12 points and six assists.
The Tartans will travel to Theil Col­
lege on Wednesday. Then, they will host 
a pair of UAA opponents during the 
weekend. On Friday, they will host New 
York University at8 pm. On Sunday, 
they will tip-off against Brandeis Uni­
versity 1 pm.
By ERIC APPLEWHITE & 
COREY ZINN
Tartan Staffwriters
Saturday night, Duquesne beat 
CMU Hockey Club 8-4 in a non­
league game.
CMU was simply outplayed by 
the Duquesne University Dukes 
for most of the game. The Dukes 
scored first with about five min­
utes remaining in the first, but 
CMU tied it up less than two 
minutes later on a key power 
play goal by freshman Scott 
Fitzgerald, assisted by sophomore 
Ray Ardire and senior Dan 
Kodesh.
CMU held the Dukes for the 
rest of the first period until eight 
seconds remained and Duquesne 
scored to make it 2—1. CMU’s 
forwards were out on an extended 
shift, and a defenseman failed to 
tie up his man, both leading to 
the goal.
Early in the second, the Dukes 
scored two power play goals, one 
on a five on three advantage. This 
seemed to take some of the wind 
out of the Tartans’ sails.
Duquesne went on to score an­
other goal and make it 5—1 at the 
end of two periods of play.
CMU got a bit of a boost 30 
seconds into the third when se­
nior John Cardillo scored on a 
power play, assisted by senior 
defenseman P. J. Mann and jun­
ior Roger Maddalena.
However, Duquesne rattled off 
three unanswered goals to make 
it 8-2 with 8:24 remaining. CMU 
managed to relieve some of the 
sting of the loss by scoring two 
goals less than 30 seconds apart 
late in the period.
With 3:52 remaining, senior 
defenseman Blair Echols made a 
nice, hard pass right in front of 
the net and senior Dave Irvin 
tipped it in to make it 8-3. 
Twenty-five seconds later, sopho­
more Jim Buck finished the scor­
ing, assisted by Echols and 
Cardillo.
One bright spot in the loss to 
Duquesne was the third line, 
which played a strong game. They 
scored a goal late in the game, 
and drew five of Duquesne’s 13 
penalties. Freshman forward
Matt Monroe, a member of this 
third line, played a particularly 
good game.
Playing a strong team like 
Duquesne hopefully helped get 
the Tartans geared up for the 
stretch drive and ready for the 
playoffs, which take place late in 
February.
Friday night, CMU shellacked 
first-year participant Edinboro in 
a 17-4 game characterized by 
CMU’s greatest offensive out­
burst in as long as we can remem­
ber. Nine members of the team 
scored, and a total of 14 players 
had points for CMU.
However, based on the first 12 
minutes of the game, one would 
not have expected such a rout. 
Edinboro got on the board first at 
14:41 of the first period, on only 
their second shot of the game.
Later that period, Edinboro also 
held a 2-1 lead, but CMU tied it 
up and never looked back. Ardire 
contributed a whopping six goals 
on the night, including a spec­
tacular break into the zone and 
beautiful shot while falling down 
to put the Tartans ahead 10-3
about midway through the sec- each tallying a goal and an assist. The fourth line continued 
ond period. Senior Dave Weber contributed CMU’s offensive domination by
Fitzgerald stunned Edinboro an assist on Irvin’s goaj with 12 adding several good shots, and 
with two goals and five assists to seconds remaining to close the its first assist of the season on a 
lead the team with seven points, scoring. Please see, HOCKEY page 13
To complement 
Ardire and 
Fitzgerald on 
second line,
Kodesh tallied 
a goal and two 
assists to make 
their line the 
most profi­
cient.
The first line 
also domi­
nated, with 
Maddalena 
adding two 
goals and three 
assists and 
Buck posting 
two goals and 
two assists.
The third line 
also played 
well, with jun­
ior Sean Odell 
and seniorDave Irvin CIV,U controlled the puck in the offensive end for most of the game against Edinboro.
Tartan file photo
Women hoopsters suffer tough conference losses
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Staff
Sophomore Tracy Bach works the ball into the offensive end for the Tartans against the University of 
Chicago, the second ranked team In their region.
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Staffiuritter
The Carnegie Mellon women’s basketball team 
continued their difficult UAA schedule by hosting 
Washington University on Sunday afternoon and 
the University of Chicago on Friday night. They 
were downed by Washington 65-36, and lost a 
tough game 54-43 to Chicago.
Against Washington, sophomore Kristen Kupfer 
and freshman Katie O’Leary led the Tartan scor­
ing with eight points apiece. O’Leary was also 
strong under the hoop with four rebounds. Fresh­
man Jackie Autieri and Sophomore Rebecca 
McCadney each grabbed four off the boards.
On Friday, the Tartans knew that they were in
for a challenging game as Chicago is ranked second 
in their region.
The Tartans started off slowly, and Chicago 
showed just why they are ranked. They opened up 
the game with an 8-0 run and also nailed three 3- 
pointers in the opening minutes.
Midway through the first half, the Tartans started 
to warm up. They slowly crept back into the game. 
With little time left in the first half, freshman 
Jessica Connolly dished to Kupfer on a fast break, 
and the Tartans went into the locker room down 
23—21. “Jessica is really starting to come on,” said 
head coach Gerri Seidl. “She is making a needed 
contribution.”
The beginning of the second half saw the Tar­
tans’ improved play continue. Two minutes in,
they tied the score at 25—25. Chicago then re­
sponded and started to pull away. They led by as 
many as 12 points before Carnegie Mellon started 
to come back.
With two minutes to go, the Tartans pulled to 
within six. Chicago then used their superior pass­
ing game and experience to keep the Tartans at 
bay. They also sunk the needed free throws down 
the stretch to ice the game.
Senior co-captain Jenny Gretz, who is out with a 
stress fracture in her leg, was sorely missed during 
the game as a few turnovers were committed at 
crucial moments. In spite of Gretz’s absence, Seidl 
felt that the Tartans played very well. “Overall I’m 
happy with their performance,” she said. “Chicago 
is ranked second in their region, and we gave them 
a good game.”
Chicago really hurt the Tartans with their out­
side shooting as Vicki Wittman sunk four three 
pointers. The Tartans were led by Kupfer who 
scored a game high 17 points while adding eight 
rebounds. O’Leary added eight points and 12 boards.
Chicago went to 5-2 in the UAA and 13—3 overall 
with the win. The Tartans dropped to 1-6 in the 
UAA and 6-11 overall.
On January 22, the Tartans traveled to New 
York University. New York jumped on the Tartans 
at the start and never let them back into the game 
as they went on to win 62-33. Kupfer again led the 
Tartans with 10 points. Christina Isaly added nine 
points and 10 rebounds in the losing effort.
The Tartans lost another heartbreaker the Fri­
day before at Brandeis. The Tartans started off 
slowly and trailed 27—18 at half time. They caught 
fire in the second half and tied the game at 53-53 
to send the game into overtime. Brandeis used the 
overtime period to pull away as they won 62-55.
O’Leary and sophomore Penny Summerville led 
the Tartans in scoring with 13 and 12 points 
respectively. Kupfer and Autieri addedll rebounds 
each in the losing effort.
The Tartans have a tough week ahead of them as 
they host New York University on Friday. They 
then have a chance for revenge against Brandeis as 
they visit on Sunday.
Scoreboard
Men’s Basketball — UAA
WLPet.Overall
Washington701.00015-2
New York620.75013-2
Brandeis530.6259-6
Rochester440.50010-5
Chicago340.4298-9
Case Western340.4297-8
Carnegie Mellon350.3759-8
Emory240.3335-11
Johns Hopkins070.0002-12
CMU 85, Chicago 74; Washington 65, CMU 64
ThisWeek: Wednesday — CMU at Thiel, 7:30 pm;
Friday — NYU at CMU, 8 pm; Sunday —Brandeis at
CMU, 1 pm
Women’s Basketball — UAA
wLPet.Overall
New York710.87515-1
Washington610.85711-5
Emory510.83311-2
Chicago520.71413-3
Johns Hopkins430.57110-4
Case Western250.2865-10
Brandeis260.2504-8
Carnegie Mellon170.1256-12
Rochester170.1255-10
Chicago 54, CMU 43; Washington 65, CMU 36
This Week-. Friday —NYU at CMU, 6 pm; Sunday —
Brandeis at CMU, 3 pm
Hockey Club —WPCHA, West Division
wLI QEQA EíSx
Carnegie Mellon511 4623 11
Pitt420 4625 8
Slippery Rock331 4336 7
Allegheny310 2819 6
CCAC-South230 2926 4
Edinboro070 1578 0
CMU 17, Edinboro 4; Duquesne 8, CMU 4
This Week: Friday — Slippery Rock at CMU, 10:30
pm; Saturday — CMU at Pittsburgh Stars, 8:30 pm
Hockey beaten by Duquesne, shell shocks Edinboro

---------------------------------------------------

’oisut Btxtuan
We are looking for bright, French speaking individuals for 
positions both in France and North America, who have the
efollowing qualifications:
•BSor MS in Electrical Engineering or 
Computer Science and Engineering
»Familiarity with communications technology
•Management potential
Resumes due in Career Center by January 31, 1995
For further information, contact the Career Center.
France Telecom, the world's fourth largest telecommun­
ications services company, has recently announced plans to 
form a global partnership with Sprint and Deutsche Telekom.
If you are interested in joining a company on the fast track 
to the 21st centurycome andrfveet with us.
We look forward to meeting with you.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995li
Baseball fans should support scabs
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
It’s a sunny April afternoon. You’re at 
the ballpark, and over the loudspeaker 
you hear, “Now batting in the fourth 
position, for the New York Mets, Pedro 
Guerrerro...”
The year is not 1985, nor am I reminisc­
ing about the 1985 Dodgers. The year is 
1995, and Guerrerro is once again a star 
in the major leagues. However, there is 
one major difference in Pedro’s second go 
around — the dominating pitcher in the 
National League is... Doug Cinella. Now 
there is a name to strike fear in the hearts 
of the opposition.
Of course, a scenario as such has yet to 
take place, and there is the eternal hope 
that it may never happen. But with the 
start of spring training a mere three 
weeks away, it’s probable that nearly 900 
new names will have to be entered in
this year’s version of The Baseball Ency­
clopedia.
Yes baseball fans, your friendly, neigh­
borhood major league owner is already 
accepting applications for everything from 
a starting first baseman to batboy, and it 
may be just a matter of days before the 
dreams of many of America’s slo-pitch, 
softball heroes come true. It may not be 
too long before the minors have unoffi­
cially become the majors, and the vener­
able major leagues of baseball have fallen 
to the levels ofthe World League of Ameri­
can Football (WLaugh) andzubazz pants.
Things could be worse though. Can a 
bonafide baseball fan truly wake on the 
morning of April 2 and face the day with 
the knowledge that he may have to con­
cede another pennant race, League Cham­
pionship Series, and World Series, to the 
clutching hands of greed?
In the end we must remember that no 
matter how many part-time accountants 
field the hot comer, or how many ortho­
pedic surgeons wind up in the leadoff 
spot, the game that we know and love will 
remain the same.
There will still be nine innings, consti­
tuting of 27 outs. Bases will still lie 90 
feet apart, and pitchers will still pitch 
from a distance of 60 feet, 6 inches. We 
will still go to the park and find the stench 
of cheap cigars, remnants of stale pop­
corn, overpriced, warm beer, and cheesy 
scoreboard gimmicks between innings. 
Many of the eternal factors which lure us 
to the park, year after year, will still
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Co-Editor
There may not be a Bonds in left, a 
Griffey in center, or a Thomas at first, but 
games will still be won and lost, boxscores 
will still be printed in every newspaper, 
and come August, some teams will still be
in the race and some will not.
The point I am trying to make is that 
we, as fans ofthegame of baseball should 
try to show the money mongers (other­
wise know as athletes) that 
the game will go on with or 
without them. Hard as it 
may be, we should try to 
support the Cinellas and 
Guerreros who take the 
field in ‘95, for not only are 
they risking any estab­
lished relationships they 
may have with their more 
successful colleagues, but 
they also take the chance of 
making a mockery of them­
selves in the public eye.
If we stick to our guns, 
with a little luck and a 
whole lot of work from the 
National Labor Relations 
Board, the players will 
desend from their pedes­
tals in the sky and return 
to the ballpark for the same 
reasons the fans will—for 
the love of the game.
Anuj Gupta is a junior Chemical Engi­
neering major who will be playing for 
either Carnegie Mellon or the Pittsburgh 
Pirates this spring.
w
The San Fransisco 49’ers crashed 
through record barriers on their way to 
an emphatic 49-26 victory over tfje 
San Diego Chargers in Super Bowl XX[X 
yesterday. The game, played in Jqe 
Robbie Stadium in Miami, was 
characterized by the silky-smooth 
routine with which the 49'ers offense 
scored their seven touchdowns. Ttie • 
first two, due mainly to poor defense by 
the Chargers took place within the first 
five minutes — the fastest in Super 
Bowl History. Steve Young threw six 
touchdowns passes, eclipsing Jtfe 
Montana’s previous record of five. Ke;n 
Norton Jr. became the first player in the 
NFL to win three consecutive Super 
Bowls, and the 49’ers became the first 
team to win five Lombardi Trophies.
The Chargers scored a field goal an;d 
three touchdowns, the second two of 
which were followed by two-point 
conversions — for the first time in ' 
Super Bowl history.
The highlights included: a 98-yar£i 
Charger's kickoff return for a touchdown, 
ABC neglecting a Charger’s touchdown 
to show 49'ers coach Seifert taking a 
cold Gatorade shower, and Jasob 
Alexander from Seinfeld parachuting 
onto the field with a beagle strapped tp 
his belly.
Hockey gurus offer predictions for shortened season
Now Honestly!
by Eric Applewhite 
& Corey Zinn
Now, HonestLy! is a weekly col­
umn where Eric and Corey dis­
cuss, and argue, their views on 
topics in the NHL.
This week, they discuss which 
teams should come out on top, 
and what teams will probably 
flop. And whoever gets the most 
predictions correct gets dinner 
from the other!
COREY: The season is under­
way! Yippee!!! So who will par­
ticipate in the “second season,” 
and who won’t? It’s tough to pre­
dict, especially in this high-in- 
tensity shortened season, but I’ll 
try my best.
WESTERN CONFERENCE
Central Division: Well, no big 
surprise in my prediction here. I 
am going to say Detroit. They 
have the firepower to make it far, 
but don’t look for them to make it 
to the finals unless Vernon is the 
savior the Wings hope he is and 
need him to be.
Pacific Division: LA is off to a 
bad start, and Vancouver is even 
worse. Anaheim has played well, 
and could be a dark horse, but I’ll 
pick Calgary to win the division, 
assuming Kidd plays consistently 
in goal.
EASTERN CONFERENCE
Atlantic Division: Philadelphia 
just can’t seem to put things to­
gether. The Rangers have been 
playing well, but they have lost
three close games already. New 
Jersey could be at the top this 
year, provided Brodeur plays at 
the level he did last year. Despite 
my dislike for them, though, I 
have to go with the Rangers.
Northeast Division: This one’s 
a tough call. Boston and Buffalo 
have definite potential to go far, 
as does a still young and improv­
ing Quebec team. However, my 
pick for this division is Pittsburgh. 
I was concerned when I heard 
that Barrasso would be out two 
months, but I thought that 
Wregget would be adequate with 
the Pens’ offensive capabilities 
(especially with the addition of 
Luc Robitaille).
If Wregget even plays close to 
the level he did last Wednesday 
against the Rangers for the whole 
season, the other Eastern Con­
ference teams are going to have a 
hard time winning against the 
Pens.
As I mentioned, the offense is 
still a big threat, even without 
Lemieux. He will be missed, but 
Jagr is getting better all the time 
and Francis will be a strong leader 
as captain. The defense needs a 
little help, and might get it with 
the new young guys like Chris 
Joseph.
My pick for the Stanley Cup 
finals: Calgary vs. Pittsburgh, 
with Pittsburgh taking it in six.
ERIC: Alllrighty then!!! Time 
for my picks.
EASTERN CONFERENCE
Northeast Division: As much 
as I hate to do it and side with 
Corey, I’m going to have to go 
with those rascally Penguins. In 
terms of the Penguins offensive 
juggernaut, I’m not sure they can 
be stopped. I shudder to think 
about what they would be like if 
Lemieux was playing ... it’s just 
too scary. The only questions for
the Penguins are defense and 
goaltending. They have added 
some youth and size at D, and 
Wregget has been doing a better 
than expected job as their 
netminder — we’ll have to see. 
Boston and Buffalo will give the 
Pens a run for their money down 
the stretch, but unless Boston 
finds a standout goalie some­
where in their organization, and 
Mogilny and Lafontaine have the 
season of their lives for Buffalo, I 
just don’t believe they can trade 
punch for punch with the Pens.
Atlantic Division: CAPS ALL 
THE WAY BABY!!! 
YEEEESSSSSS!!!
I guess I should let you know 
I’m a rabid CAPS fan — so you’ll 
get no unbiased journalism here. 
Corey and I have spent most of 
our friendship living and dying 
with the Caps/Penguins rivalry. 
Now that they’ve changed divi­
sions we’ve decided to start speak­
ing to one another again—hence 
this column. Anyway, the Caps 
have a strong, young organiza­
tion. The acquisition of Joe Ju­
neau will certainly help the team 
offensively, and look for former 
minor league wonders Jason 
Allison and Pat Peake to start to 
contribute. The Caps finally 
traded Kevin Hatcher, who was a 
force of nature by himself on the 
blueline. However, they got Mark 
Tinordi from Dallas in return, 
who is just as huge and talented 
as Hatcher is, especially in the 
defensive end, if he stays healthy.
One question for the Caps: 
goaltending. It’s the same ques­
tion every year, and still, there is 
no answer. Someone has got to 
step up and fill the number one 
joborthe Caps won’tmake it past 
the first round of the playoffs.
I’m definitely worried about 
New Jersey. They have great 
goaltending in Martin Brodeur 
—if only the Caps had him, ‘sigh’.
They also have great defense — I 
think Scott Stevens eats weap­
ons grade plutonium for break­
fast and the rest of the team D 
isn’t bad either. One problem — 
they need some consistent goal 
scoring, and I don’t think they’ll 
find it this year. They were ane­
mic offensively even before they 
lost Bemie Nicholls.
The edge goes to the Caps, then 
New Jersey, and Philadelphia 
next. Hide your children from Eric 
Lindros and Recci; Brind’amour 
are to be feared as well. If the 
team doesn’t magically find some 
goaltending and some defense, 
they’ll go nowhere again.
I hate the Rangers — enough 
said! I don’t think they can get 
there again without Keenan. 
Isles, Florida, and Tampa Bay 
are watchers alike—forget about 
it.
WESTERN CONFERENCE
Central Division: Two teams
are in the running for the top 
spot, Detroit and Saint Louis. If 
Keenan can get his team moti­
vated using his iron boot of op­
pression, I look for the Blues. If 
the shortened season keeps him 
from working his magic, I’ll take 
Detroit. Both teams have high 
powered offenses. The Blues need 
discipline and a work ethic; the 
‘Wings need a goalie. Mike Vernon 
could be the answer to their 
dreams. If he plays up to his po­
tential, it could be Detroit all the 
way.
Look for Dallas and Chicago to 
be up there as well. Chicago can’t 
score goals though, and I just 
don’t think Dallas can go one-on- 
one with the Redwings or Blues. 
Detroit’s not as much of a lock as 
Corey thinks though.
Pacific Division: Calgary???! 
Maybe, but watch out for those 
dark horse Sharks. They have 
consistent goaltending, and a 
surprisingly good offense. There’s
classified
flOUSING
Summer and fall rental. 
Shadyside one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to 
campus. On campus shuttle bus 
route. Close to shopping. Very 
clean and spotless. Private bath­
rooms and kitchens. Spacious 
bookshelves. Roomy closets.. Very 
isecure apartment buildings. From 
$235. Call 683-0776.
North Oakland/Shadyside Free 
Heat! Move Into your freshly 
painted 1 or 2 bedroom unfur­
nished apartment. Your apartment 
will feature a spacious floor plan, 
intercom building, extra storage, & 
laundry facilities, One bedroom 
start at $435 and 2 bedroom at 
$535. All utilities included, call 
now! 361-6160
JOBS
*Spring Break 95**
America's #1 Spring Break Com- 
3any! Cancún, Bahamas, Florida!
110% Lowest Price Guarantee! 
Organize 15 friends and travel free! 
Call our finalized 1995 party 
schedules! (800) 95-BREAK
Cruise Ships Now Hiring - Earn up 
to $2,000+/ month working on 
Cruise Ships or Land Tour compa­
nies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, 
the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and 
Full-Time employment available.
No experience necessary. For more 
information call 1-206-634-0468 
ext. C52362
a new 6’5” wing on the block fojr 
them in Viktor Kozlov — watcji 
for him! Sandis Ozolinsh is one cjf 
the best young blueliners in thp 
league as well. You gotta lov|* 
him too.
My prediction: Calgary wi|l 
probably take it, but the Sharks 
are capable. Look for Anaheim t| 
do well — they won’t win th| 
division but they’ll challenge. [
What’s up with Vancouver? 
They’ll need to find some defense^ 
For LA, it’s gonna be a loooon^ 
season.
Prediction for Lord Stanley’^ 
Cup: Those darned Penguins vs(. 
Da’ Blues.
Eric Applewhite is a senior Psy\ 
chology I Philosophy major whfy 
just knows the Caps are going tty 
win a cup any year now. Core} 
Zinn is a senior MSE/Econ mat 
jor who likes Eric, but thinks he% 
lost a couple of his marbles dur\ 
ing the lockout.
Men/Women earn up to 5480
weekly assembling circuit boards/ 
electronic components at home. 
Experience unnecessary, will train. 
Immediate openings your local area. 
Call!-602-680-4777 ext. 102C
Earn $2000 + monthly. Part-time/ 
full-time. World Travel. Caribbean, 
Hawaii. All positions available. No 
experience. Call 602-453-4651.
UNIX/C programmer needed to 
develop tools for the analysis and 
visualization of brain imaging data. 
Must be fluent in C and able to work 
at least 20 hours/week for six 
months. XI1 experience a plus. 
Work conducted in Oakland research 
lab. Contact Psychology Software 
Tools., 2014 Monongahela Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15218 (no phone 
calls).
Singers wanted. Cardinal Wright 
Oratory Choir, Heinz Chapel. 
Rehearsals Sundays 10:30 to noon, 
Mass noon to two. Contact Angie, 
687-7955.
Computer Person Needed — 
Business opportunity for Pittsburgh 
based, ambitious, enterprising 
person who has excellent experi­
ence of hardware and software on 
Macintosh, IBM, and IBM compat­
ible computers. Flexible hours. 
Excellent Pay. Must have own car. 
Call 561-1940 for Interview.
RESUME SERVICES
if you need typing done—
resumes, term papers, disserta­
tions — call Michelle 449-0154 
(quick & dependable).
SERVICES
International Students: DV-1 
Greencard program by U.S. 
immigration. Greencards 
provide permanent resident 
status. Citizens of almost all 
countries are allowed. For info & 
forms: New Era Legal Services, 
20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, 
CA 91306, Tel: (818)-998-4425; 
(818) 772-7168, Monday- 
Sunday 10 a.m.-l 1 p.m.
JRAVEL
**Spring Break '95 ** Cancún, 
Bahamas, Jamaica, South Padre, 
Margarita Island, Panama City, 
Daytona - Quality vacations at 
the guaranteed lowest prices! 
Group discounts for 10 or more 
people! Spacing is limited! 
Breakaway Travel & Tours Inc. @ 
1-800-214-8687.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........S5.00 / wk
21-50 words.........J8.00 / wkt
51-100 words......$10.00/wk
Classifieds must be paid in cash or by check before i 
the first-scheduled run date.
I
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before publication. J
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
THETARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

ATTIEN'irTON IE&SS SENH©IR§» 
& ©TIHIBIRS ©(DUN© 1H&SS 
©©TOIL® MAJJ©IE§s
Imagine that someone offered you $7500 and from 
six months to a year to study something that has 
interested you for a long time, that excites you a 
lot, and that would require travel abroad In one or 
more cultures different from your own. Would that 
interest you, and what would you do?
An
IPditll ©«?©}& Up
can make this possible for you.
The H&SS Alumni Study/Travel Fellowship seeks to enable a bachelor's 
candidate of unusual promise to engage in a year of independent study and travel 
abroad following graduation. One Fellow will be selected this year, and will receive 
a grant of $7500 for travel and study abroad during a period of six months to a year 
following their college graduation. This fellowship may be used to supplement other 
funding sources.
Eligible students include H&SS seniors, and non-H&SS seniors with an H&SS double 
major. Applications due: February 28, 1995. Candidate interviews: Early March, 
1995. Fellow selected: mid-March, 1995.
Additional information (including application materials):
Available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. 
Contact person: Dr. Joseph E. Devine, Associate Dean of H&SS.
UNDERGRADUATES, GRADUATE STUDENTS AND ALUMNI
Attend the 11th Annual 
Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
and Carnegie Mellon University Career Center
BtupsaxaSA 
•aL ’ieo
Speak with the region’s leaders representing the 
following industries:
Engineering 
Environmental 
Telecommunications 
Professional Services
Architecture 
Biotechnology 
Computer Science 
Test and Measurement
Dress — Professional 
Resumes — Required
Thursday, February 9,1995 
10 am - 4 pm 
The Student Center Drill Deck
ASSOCIATION FOR>4IML
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT AND ECONOMICS
FIRST GENERAL MEETING
When: Thursday, February 2, 5 pm
Where: Mellon Auditorium, GSIA
AIME is a student-run organization for those interested in business, but not re­
stricted to business majors. Our target is to serve as a social group for IM/Econ ma­
jor students while also providing career-oriented services for our members.
• FREE Raffle for electronic organizer
• Meet the newly-elected officers
• Social gatherings, field trips, guest speakers & workshops
• Get involved in the 1995 BOC Committee
• Stop by IM Happy Hour at GSIA 139 for FREE pizza and soda
Visit us at the Winter Activités Fair this Tuesday to 
find out more about us & get your FREE raffle tickets.
GET INVOLVED! ! I See everyone there!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 199513
UMass, Kansas loaded with talent
troops gave Duquesne all kinds worry only about getting better 
of trouble, forcing 14 first-half when you know you’re going to 
turnovers and helping to turn an win nearly every game.
Below the Rim
by Darren Chiappetta
Welcome to Below the Rim, a 
weekly column about college, pro­
fessional, or any other kind of bas­
ketball deemed worthy enough to 
grace the pages of this fine publi­
cation.
Why call it Below theRim? Well, 
for most of us, the underside of the 
rim is all we’ll ever see. Sure, there 
are the flashy, trashy skywalkers 
who do things with gravity that 
Sir Isaac Newton never thought of 
when that apple dropped down 
and plunked him on the noggin. 
But for us regular guys, the ap­
peal of the game is in the simple 
things: solid defense, thegive-and- 
go, the shot that we take that actu­
ally goes in.
And that’s what this column is 
all about — nothing flashy, just 
basketball talk from a little guy 
shooting up observations and opin­
ions, from Below the Rim.
College basketball’s number one 
team, UMass, was in town to take 
on Duquesne last Tuesday. De­
spite playing without starting 
point guard Derek Kellogg (out 
due to illness), the Minutemen 
put on an awesome show, shoot­
ing 57 percent from the floor while 
limiting the Dukes to just 33 per­
cent and holding the second-lead- 
ing scorer in the Atlantic 10, Tom 
Pipkins, to a five-point night on 
the way to a 103-53 win.
Sophomore center Marcus 
Camby helped UMass exploit a 
huge height advantage inside, 
scoring 23 points'on 10-of-16 
shooting, and blocking three shots, 
while All-American Lou Roe 
chipped in with 13 points. The 
swarming man-to-man press em­
ployed by Coach John Calipari’s
early 9-2 Duke lead into a 52-26 
halftime lead.
At the post-game press confer­
ence, Calipari talked about the 
simple strategy his team uses to 
win games: “It’s not brain sur­
gery. We [try to] make the game 
real hard on their end, by de­
fending and putting pres­
sure on the ball. On our 
end, we make the game 
real easy by creating easy 
shots for teammates.”
This approach has 
helped the Minutemen 
move out to a 15-1 record 
with victories over last 
season’s national champ 
Arkansas, and Maryland.
Their only loss was to 
Kansas (we’ll get back to 
the Jay hawks in a 
minute) in the second 
game of the season, in 
which supersoph Camby 
scored only two points.
Since then, UMass has 
ripped off a 14-game win­
ning streak. But there 
have been some close 
calls. Two weeks ago, 
Calipari’s squad was 
forced to go to overtime 
to beat St. Bonaventure, 
an Atlantic-10 foe with 
just one conference win, 
and last weekend, 
Camby’s block with just 
over three seconds to play 
preserved a 59-58 win over 
Temple.
Few coaches have the luxury 
of having two potential All- 
Americans on their rosterin Roe, 
a smooth forward who has earned 
the nickname “TV” for his mon­
ster performances in big games, 
and Camby, who has been rated 
by The Sporting News as the A-
nents in the gym at a lofty 5'9").
I had originally designated this 
space to talk about the college 
basketball version of the Who’s 
Number One battle. Sports Illus­
trated, along with just about ev­
ery sports publication in the 
Northeast, has been debating who 
would win if the country’s two 
top-rated teams, UMass and 
UConn, were to meet on the court.
10’s best NBA prospect. Roe is 
averaging 16 points and nearly 
Friday night, the Minutemen eight rebounds a game, while
made their most amazing come­
back of the year, overcoming an 
18-point deficit with about five 
minutes to play to defeat West 
Virginia in overtime.
Regardless of how these closely 
contested games turn out, 
Calipari says his only concern is 
whether or not hi s talented team 
improves. “I told the team, we’re 
not going to win every game.
Camby is currently scoring 15 
points and blocking three shots 
per contest.
Add a solid, unselfish support­
ing cast that responds extremely 
well to Calipari’s loud, fiery 
coaching style, and it’s easy to 
see Why UMass rules the roost in 
college hoops.
Besides, I have to root for a 
coach who’s: a) Italian (check my
Let’s just worry about getting last name) and b) as short as I 
better.” Of course, it’s easy to am (I tower over all my oppo-
Amy Haupl/Tartan Art Staff
If you happened to be near a 
television on Saturday, you’ll 
know why this discussion is no 
longer necessary. Kansas, who, 
as previously mentioned, handed 
UMass its only loss of the season, 
made it a top two sweep with an 
88-59 pounding of the Huskies in 
a game that was barely even that 
close.
Point guard Jacque Vaughn 
had little trouble breaking the 
UConn press that had given pre­
vious Husky opponents fits, and 
the tandem of Raef LaFrentz and 
Greg Ostertag was too much in­
side for Jim Calhoun’s squad, 
which was forced to use 6'8" 
Donny Marshall to cover the 
7'2" Ostertag in the half-court 
set for much of the game.
Kansas, ranked seventh na­
tionally going in, certainly con­
firmed its status as a top na­
tional contender. What makes 
the Jayhawk offense so danger­
ous is its capability both inside 
and out with LaFrentz (who at 
6'10" is so skilled offensively he 
often plays up to 18 feet from 
the basket) and Ostertag able 
to bang inside, and transfer 
Jarrod Haase a more than ca­
pable long-range shooter. The 
man who runs it all, Vaughn, 
makes few mistakes and plays 
with tremendous poise, as he 
showed on Saturday.
About the only Achilles’ heel 
for Kansas is the team’s foul 
shooting percentage, around 65 
percent for the season. They 
have good inside play, a good 
outside shooter, a solid point 
guard, poor foul-shooting, and 
an excellent coach. If this long- 
winded formula sounds famil­
iar, remember back two years, 
when the outside shooting of 
Donald Williams and the inside 
presence of Eric Montross and 
George Lynch combined with 
the on-floor leadership of Der­
rick Phelps to help lead Dean 
Smith and the North Carolina 
Tar Heels to a national title.
Sure, Lynch was a power for­
ward in a small forward’s body, 
and LaFrentz may be just the 
opposite, but, for the most part, 
these two teams are pretty much 
the same. Sounds like front-run­
ning, and it probably is, but 
watch this Kansas team come 
tournament time.
Well, that’s all for this week. 
I hope you enjoyed the literary 
stylings of a basketball fan in a 
spoken majority of one. I’ll see 
you next week. I’ve got to go 
work on my jumper.
Darren Chiappetta is a junior 
Journalism major.
CMU Hockey stays atop division with devastating win over Edinboro
HOCKEY, from page 9
key play. Sophomore Sean Cho sent a nice 
pass to a pinching sophomore defenseman 
Chris Adukaitis on a nice goal to knot the 
game at two.
When asked to characterize the game, 
Ardire replied, “Everybody worked hard. 
They’re [Edinboro] just building.” And 
when informed of his seven point perfor­
mance, Fitzgerald exclaimed, “Nice!” 
After taking a moment to contemplate, 
lie added, “It was nice to see a bunch of
different people scoring, people who don’t 
usually get the chance to score.”
The win kept CMU on top of their 
division with, a record of 5-1-1 in their 
division.
Next/Friday night, the Carnegie 
Mellon Hockey Club will play Slippery 
Rock at 10:30 pm at the Golden Mile 
Arena in Monroeville. Saturday, they 
take the ice against the Pittsburgh Stars 
in an exhibition match at 8:30 pm in 
Harmarville.Tartan file photo
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director — Mike 
Mastroiannl, X8-2214; Assistant Direc­
tor— Mike Grzywinski, 683-2938; In­
tramural Secretary — Michelle Matta, 
X8-2053; President — Jim Saxon, x2- 
3872; Women’s President — Amy 
Watchorn, X2-2629; Vice President — 
Matt Williams, X2-2490
IMPORTANT DATES
Tuesday, January 31 — First night of 
basketball games
Thursday, February2—Floor Hockey 
entries due by 4:30 pm
IM Pinochle entries due 4:30pm
Friday, February 3 — Floor Hockey 
rules meeting, Thistle Hall 4 pm
Monday February 6 — First night of 
floor hockey games
BASKETBALL
All teams are reminded to stop by the 
Intramural office and pick uptheirsched- 
ules. There are no reschedules so teams 
are reminded to have a complete roster 
by the start of their second game. 
Teams should try to have the same 
colored t-shlrts.
All teams are also reminded to have 
a scorekeeper at all games. Teams 
should arrive at least 10 minutes be­
fore the start time of these games so 
games are run on time.
Any other questions should be di­
rected to the Intramural office, room
101 In the gym, or call Intramural Direc­
tor Mike Mastroiannl, X8-2214.
FLOOR HOCKEY
Entries for floor hockey are due on 
Thursday, February 2, by 4:30 pm. A 
mandatory rules meeting for all teams 
will be held at 4 pm on Friday, February 
3, in Thistle Hall.
On Wednesday, February 1, and 
Thursday February 2, Thistle Hall will be 
available from 7:30-10:30 pm for 
teams to have Informal practices.
If there are more than two teams._ 
waiting to practice, teams will have a 
half hour time span to play. If you are 
planning to use this time you must call 
the IM office at least 24 hours before 
your practice time.
IM OFFICIALS
The Intramural office is still looking 
for officials for basketball and floor 
hockey. If you are still looking for a 
campus job please stop by the Intramu­
ral office and talk to Intramural Director 
Mike Mastroiannl or call X8-2214 for 
more Information.
Officials in all sports are permitted to 
also participate in the sport that they 
are officiating.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
ENGINEERS 
Timing is Everything.
IEER 
NATION 
-SSION
TUesday
¿an. ¡31,1995
7-9 pm
And the time is now! Making the right 
things happen for customers and team 
members is critical to our success at 
the Alien-Bradley Company, a part of 
Rockwell Automation.
By working together, 12,500 
employees, 29 manufacturing 
plants around the world and sales 
offices in over 70 countries make 
the right things happen to 
generate annual sales of over $1.7 
billion. Results like these are possible 
only in an environment that encourages 
innovation and excellence.
By anticipating the future, we ensure 
our status as a global leader in the 
manufacture of solid-state and electro­
mechanical controls and automation 
systems designed to serve virtually 
every industry in the world.
We’re concerned with your future, too. 
As a Rockwell International 
Company, we're committed to 
encouraging professional growth.
From business skills and product 
training to Allen-Bradley’s Management 
Institute, we can provide everything 
Engineers require to achieve their 
goals.
Positions are available beginning in 
June of 1995 for Associate Software/ 
Firmware Engineers with a BS in EE, 
Computer Engineering, or Computer 
Science.
Contact your placement office to 
schedule an interview or see our 
recruiter at the information session. 
Should a mutual decision be made 
to further investigate a career with 
Rockwell Automation, It will be 
mandatory to attend a plant visit, 
Apr. 9-11, at our Milwaukee 
Corporate Headquarters.
Equal Opportunity Employer.
{Sh4L* Rockwell Automation
ALLEN-BRADLEY
Teradyne.
Bpt oeSpm cxiut 9ao Aar6
Melissa FrankYen PhamBruce CollinsKatherinB PratsDanProskauerDesign EngineerHardware DesignHardwareComponent EngineerDesign Engineer
BS. ElectricalEngineerDevelopment
EngineerBS. MechanicalBS. ComputerEngineeringBS. EngineeringEngineeringScienceBS. ElectricalMassachusettsHarvey MuddEngineeringUniversity of NewCornell UniversityInstitute ofCollegeHampshireTechnologyUniversity of 
Illinois
M.eradyne is the right place for all kinds of people. It's a stimulating 
environment that challenges people every day. You’re free to do the 
things you think need to be done, with a minimum of rules, regula­
tions, and bureaucracy. We want people who don’t need to be led 
by the hand. We want talented, bright people with new ideas and die 
initiative to give those ideas a shot.
You’ll have plenty of opportunity at Teradyne. We're a $550 million 
electronics company that competes in the global market, working with 
the world's largest companies. Our technology is unmatched, and our 
commitment to Total Quality Management is unwavering. In other 
words, we're big... but not too big!
If you want to learn more about your place at Teradyne, visit your 
Career Services Office.
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

I
Carnegie Mellon
Carnegie Institute Of Technology Proudly Acknowledges The 
Academic Achievement Of The Following Engineering Undergraduates 
Who Have Been Named To The Dean’s List For The
Fall Semester 1994:
SENIORS
Alexander AmezquitaECEBurt N. HolzmanMEGMaximiliano MiyazanoECE
Merle J. AtkinsonMEGJason K. HusbandsCEEAmy M. MontanelliCHE
Jason S. BertschiECEDavid M. lorioCEEPun PanthawomCEE
Kirsten ButtlerMEGDaniel P. KammererMEGJeffrey R. ParentiCEE
David C. CalvoMEGJames P. KampfCHEAnthony G PaulCEE
Matthew I CampbellMEGJulia P. KaoECEEric J. PaulCHE
Carson T. CarneyCEEPiroon KlavohmECECarl G. RameyECE
Hui Fen ChanECECarey K. KlossECEEric D. RandallMEG
Frank ChenECELeena KrishnanMEGChristian D. RavottaCEE
Kuei-Che ChengECEPasan KulvanitMEGMahesh T. ReddyECE
Ming C. ChngMEGManu S. KumarECEKian T. SohECE
Alongkrit T. ChutinanECEYu Cong LamECEJeffrey B. StewartECE
Pajman A. DanaiMSEBertrand Y. LeeECEArak SutivongECE
Christopher P. DiehlECESteven R. LeeMEGChayakom ThanomsatMEG
Michael P. FranciscoMEGKencheong LimECEDavid P. TupperECE
Eric M. FurstCHEJose A. MadrizECEMandana F. VaziriECE
Eugene M. GanECEDavid W. MatheyMEGCory E. WeberECE
Michael A. GibsonECEEdward MekhayaECENicholas WhartonCEE
Matthew A. GoldbergECEHasan MetlaECEEric B. WheelerECE
Jason M. HannanMSEDavid P. MickelsonECEKian S. YeohECE
Pradeep KatikaneniECEJohn C. AldenMEGJohn A. MillerECE
Karsten C. KochCEEJohn W. ZinnMEG
JUNIORS
Nathaniel J. BarlowECEKeith M. GunnettECEAmy M. RochECE
David W. BauerECEJoseph N. HostenyECEMatthew P. RubaiMEG
David A. BylerCEEChuck HouCHEDiego Santa CruzECE
Brian J. CardanhaECEOzge H. KoymenECEUlrich SchlaepferECE
Edwin K. ChanMEGJames R. MillerECEGeorge C. ScottCHE
Edith Y. ChenECESteven P. MillerCHEAndrew T. ShefmanMEG
Li ChenECEMatthew D. MoeECEBecky L. SheridanCHE
Brian E. ChoyECEJohn M. MortonECEJeffrey D. SilveyECE
June Z. ChungMEGGregory MumpowerMEGAngela L. SnyderECE
Jeffrey L. ClarkMEGAaron B. NealCEEKevin J. StanleyMSE
Jason N. CohenCEEShih Chun Ngiam": MEGStephanie S. StineCHE
Jeffrey A. CoyneCHEKirsten M-JOlsen,,..«JECEDavid T. StottECE
Shiv DewanCEEAnan OsangthammanontECEScott A. ThompsonCHE
Keith T. DickersonCEEAllon E. RauerECEWei C. TngECE
David R. DropCHESanjay R. RaviECEShane C. WangECE
Peter V. WilcoxCHE
SOPHOMORES
Devin P. AmonECEJason D. JancaitisCEEAron L. RalstonMEG
Michael D. BaycuraMEGChad A. JasiunasCHEBohuslav RychlikECE
Catherine M. BishopMSEGautam R. KharkarECEVivi A. SaptariMEG
Rebecca B. BuchheitCEETimothy J. KnivetonECEChristine ShambachCHE
Daniel CheongCHEIdoe M. KrisnantoMEGMark R. SibenacECE
Edward T. CheungECESum Yim S. KungECERonak SinghalECE
Taek J. ChoiMEGWee Tee LimECEKatherine A. StrinkaCEE
Michelle CookMEGDaniel J. ListECEJohn J. SungECE
Drew A. DAvidsonMEGRobert E. LongMEGEugene R. TaboneCHE
Bradley W. DietrichECESamir MarwayCEEEdgardo TorresMEG
Indra DjutrisnoMEGSteven J. MeyersCHEMarc J. UnangstECE
John G. DorseyECESaratu J. MohammedCEENicholas M. VallidisMSE
Sherry K. EckertCEEMichael MontemerloECEBenjamin L. WangCHE
Bassem El-DasherMEGKirk B. MorganCEEAmy L. WatchomCEE
Ryan M. FetterECENathan A. MorrisCHEChristopher E. WhiteCEE
Andrew J. FloresMEGMatthew J. MyersECEAlice WongCHE
Jason M. FungECEJon P. NedelECEErena YamaguchiECE
Anat Gal-OrMEGPadmanabhan PillaiECERudolph YeungECE
Chris R. GuentherECERonald G. PolcawichMSES. Hyun YimECE
Brian D. HutsellECEStephanie L. PostalECEJeremy M. ZelsnackECE
FRESHMEN
Bader K. Al-EssaAudie HanpachemVarun Rai
Mark A. AlexanderJeremy W. HomerTimothy Richardson
Gil AlterovitzBrian J. IngramAlejandro M. Rodriguez
Jacqueline AutieriElizabeth M. JacobsBenjamin M. Rowe
Kyle R. BaileyDavid J. KimRobert A. Rumpf
Rebecca L. BarbischPeter S. KimMichael V. Samuel
Kevin S. BatikAltug KoymenSteven Schkolne
Urs. W. BatzelBryon P. KrugSteven W. Schlosser
Mark D. BedillionaAlexander LozuponeTimothy A. Seiger
Edward BrekelbaumChristopher R. LumbAnlin Sethi-
Gabriel F. BrissonNavroze S. MarshallParag S. Shah
Jeffrey M. ButlerFraqncisco MartinezDoug A. Shontz
Van D. ButlerNeil T. McCarthyRobert E. Slater
Gregory P. BylenokJason R. McDowallChadd E. Slezak
Matthew E. CainJohn P. McGregorJeffrey 0. Smith
James R. CheneyChad 0. McMahillMichael E. Spena
Paul C. ConstantinidesPhillip D. MichalakMichael T. Stanger
Lisa A. CookDale T. MorganDaniel V. Stauffer
Michael J. CurrieDilip R. MujumdarJoshua M. Stauffer
Kris N. DahlBharat K. NarumanchiTheodore M. Taylor
Frank W. DelrioPhilip T. O’HaraLawrence S. Tse
Arijit DeyGlen C. OngBrian C. Van Essen
Damien F. DixonMikhail OsterfeldMauricio Vives
Keith E. DuwelJoaquin PantelJonathan D. Voymas
Phillip G. EzoltRobert M. PhamMichael D. Wagner
William 0. FerrySteven J. PierenAndrew C. Wang
Nathan A. GillStephen M. PisukScott J. Weber
Garth R. GoodsonKathryn S. PittmanLisa I. Werner
Erik S. GrossJonathan B. PompaMatthew N. White
George BlahaPradya PrempraneerachMing-Yuan Yeh
Edward A. Cudahy
Location
and
tUtxacntsm 
*oaSoin
School-year Internships 
Off-Campus Part-Time Employment 
Temporary Openings
Get
the
EKperience
you
need!
Register now
Career Center 
¡Warner Hall 19
JLD REGISTRATION CARD 
Return to Warner Hall 19, Career Center
NAME
LastFirstMiddle Initial
LOCAL ADDRESS_ 
PHONE NUMBER_ 
MAJOR__________
— a
EXPECTED GRADUATION DATE
EMAIL ADDRESS. 
SIGNATURE_____
.SOCIAL SECURITY #_ 
________________DATE
L.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89, Issue 14
¥ TTTTIT/Xeni s oioi se xies oioi
L1V11>U
, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania30 January 1995
Students contemplate housing options
decisions, 
Decisions, 
Decisions
7es, it’s that time once again 
for students to decide where 
\hey’ll eat, sleep, relax, and 
study' for another year...
lampus housing
iccomodates some
By MICHELLE HALL 
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
You have had a long, hard day of classes. Yon slide your I.D. card through the 
iader and make your way down the hall to your room. You are home. As soon as 
you get in the door you notice your roomate has left her dirty laundry in a pile on 
the floor, and the milk is sitting open on top of the refrigerator. The guys across the 
hall are blasting Nine Inch Nails and someone above you is playing some kind of 
itact sport. Such is life in the residence halls.Every student who has lived in 
opus housing has experienced this scenario, or something like it. 
fith approximately 2,750 students living on campus this year, 80 percent of 
wjiom are first- and second-year students, noise and roommate trouble become 
part of the Carnegie Mellon experience. Over 60 percent of CMU undergraduates 
opt to live on campus in a variety of living spaces that include dormitories, 
lartments, fraternities and sororities.
itudents can choose from standard or prime rooms; singles, doubles, triples, and 
ads. Whatever the lifestyle, members of the on-campus community find that 
iere are both advantages and disadvantages to living on campus.
Everything you needis accessible when you live on campus,” said Bryan Campo, 
eshman Chemical Engineering major living in Donner Hall. Most campus 
¡ideats find the convenience of being close to campus facilities and activities the 
ary advantage of living on campus.
like being close to everything,” said Mandy Brown, a senior double major in 
!CE and French, who is a resident assistant in Morewood Gardens. “You’re close 
es and the clusters, and you can roll out of bed 15 minutes before class 
,jgins! You can’t do that off campus.”
Security is an issue for some students in deciding to live on campus. “In general 
I.would feel safer living on campus because of the better security,” said Jeff Bricker, 
B|umor Industrial Design major living in Pi Kappa Alpha’s fraternity house.
Aside from the purely practical issues of having someone else clean your 
pathroom and guaranteed housing the following year, campus residents focused on 
¡the social plusses of being on campus. “You meet a lot more people and you can stay 
p touch with more people,” said Cheryl Gach, a sophomore Art major residing in 
Mudge House.
Said Brown, “Off campus you’re isolated, but living in a residence hall forces you 
Itofinteract with people. To meet people, all you have to do is open your door.”
Please see ON-CAMPUS, page L3
Pros, cons of living off-campus
W SHARMILA 
jVENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
* response to the pressures of 
i orm life, many Carnegie Mellon 
[«dents turn to off-campus 
¦Bping found in the neighbor­
ly areas of Shadyside, Squirrel 
W and Oakland. While this 
jjjffctice is more common among 
^perclassmen and graduate 
f... dents, numerous freshmen 
S?P *nto college life with both 
e?’ ^fusing the buffer that dor- 
^ ories can provide during the ¡¡j^year.
' spending his first year
House, Psychology major Andrew tractions [in the dorms] were in- 
Seymour decided to “venture out, hibiting my growth,” he said, 
and accept the challenge of living Since the things that might help
on his own,” by moving to an off- incorporate a first-year student
“I was tired of having to hide my damn toaster oven, 
which I couldn't even use, under my bed every 
night,”
—Andrew Seymour, Sophomore Psychology major
campus apartment this year. “I 
didn’t like the crampedness of 
living in the dorms,” said 
Seymour. “I was really ready for7 ursb year oeymuur. i wat» reauy íeauy
JfS ^ the basement of Mudge my own space this year. The dis-
freshmen. “It’s harder to meet 
new people, living off campus,” 
said Seymour. “You have to deal 
with a feeling of isolation some-
-------------------------- times,” he
added.
Another 
reason that 
many stu­
dents move 
out of the 
dorms after 
their first 
year is a
into college living can become dissatisfaction with the dining 
unnecessary for returning stu- services offered on campus. Want- 
dents, living off campus can also ing to cook his own food with real 
allow on-campus facilities to fo- appliances, Seymour finds hav- 
cus on its role as a cushion for Please see OFFCAMPUS, page L3Gabrien Symons/Tartan Art Co-editor

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995
Resident assistants inspire community among students
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Resident assistants, also known as 
RAs, are a special kind of people. Afterall, 
they work 24 hours a day, seven days a 
week, taking care of at least 30 students 
while balancing their own school work, 
activities, and personal lives.
We may forget that RAs are just like 
the rest of us, and must deal with all the 
ordinary situations and problems of col­
lege life.
However, many of us take the work, 
compassion, and time that they put into 
their job for granted. Indeed, it is the 
most difficult and time-consuming stu­
dent occupation that Carnegie Mellon 
offers.
“You grow up when you’re an RA,” said 
Vicki Carlisle, a junior Graphic Design 
major who works in Donner on the first 
floor. Carlisle, who has been an RA for 
three semesters, feels that the benefits 
of being an RA significantly outweigh 
the drawbacks.
She said, “The biggest con, in my opin­
ion, is that we push ourselves too hard. 
You have to push yourself over the lim­
its to be a good RA.
But it’s worth it in the end because you 
get to deal with so many personalities 
and people. The people are definitely the
best thing about this job.”
Mike Leonard, a junior Math and Tech­
nical Writing major who is a first-year 
RA at Schlag 3A, also feels that his 
position results in a multitude of his 
own benefits.
He said, “Being an RA gives you the 
chance to have a positive effect on so 
many people. It makes me feel so happy 
when I help someone. That’s what makes 
being an RA rewarding.”
You can’t do this job for the just the 
money,” said Karen Grunberg, a junior 
Information Systems major who is a 
first-year RA in Morewood C and D 
towers.
“There are many nicer jobs on this 
campus if you need a job for that reason. 
The people who are RAs love, their job.” 
Grunberg feels she has learned many 
things from her experience. She said, “I 
learned to know my self and my own 
values, but the best thing I realized was 
to not judge people. Everyone has his or 
her own set of values. I don’t ever judge 
anyone.”
Matt Cline, a junior Chemical Engi­
neering major who was an RA last year 
and is a community advisor this year 
said, “It gave me so much opportunity 
for personal development and personal 
growth.” Cline, who works in Schlag 
added, “You get to see you have an im­
pact on others. It let’s you know you’re 
doing good things.”
Cline applied for the position of CA 
last year. He explained that the role of 
CA is quite different from that of an RA. 
He said, “A CA is more flexible than an 
RA. RAs create a large sense of commu­
nity and fosters communication through­
out their residents. It’s my job to keep 
the RA enthusiastic and encourage them 
to plan programs.” He added, “RAs see 
things in a tangible way. I see things 
from a distance. I’m sort of like the
grams. You can’t just sit in your room 
and do nothing.”
“It is my job to create a large sense of 
community among my residents,” said 
Leonard. He feels that the men living in 
Schlag are part of a big family.
Cline added, “I definitely would call on 
50 guys dressed in togas at dorm wars, 
150 guys planning the Prohibition 
Party with the help of SDC, a commu­
nity.”
It is also important for RAs to plan 
activities for their floors. Carlisle said,
“Being an RA gives you the chance to have a 
positive effect on so many people. It makes me 
feel so happy when I help someone. That's what 
makes being an RA rewarding.”
— Mike Leonard, first year RA
behind the scenes guy. I get to deal with 
more problems.”
However, dealing with problems is 
just one facet of the workload of RAs and 
CAs. “The job requires you to organize 
your life 24 hours a day,” said Grunberg, 
“You have to always be there for your 
residents. You have to organize pro­
“It is the best feeling when everyone 
participates in the program you orga­
nized for them, but it is terribly depress­
ing when no one shows up. It makes you 
question yourself as an RA.”
Cline added, “It’s so disturbing when 
no one comes to the programs. You say to 
yourself, ‘Well, I could I have advertised
more or maybe if I put a gun to their | 
heads they would have come.’”
While worrying about helping their 
residents and keeping them occupied 
with activities, RAs and CAs also attend 
many meetings as well as an extensive 
training session that begins one weefc 
before orientation and endures for twj 
weeks.
Cline describes the training in four I 
words. He said, “It’s fun, education, tor-T 
ture, and love.”
Carlisle enjoys the training because;\ 
it’s a time when RAs can spend time'| 
with each other.
She said, “I love it when it is just us,; 
During training and at the end of the 
semester right before break all the RA$; 
get to hang out with each other. It’s; 
really cool.” She added, “During the year, 
we’re all so busy that we never have time; 
to see each other.”
Despite the time it consumes, the RAjl 
and CA staff would agree that their jobs; 
are worth it. Each has gained many; 
valuable skills and unforgettable memo.; 
ries from their experience working in; 
Residence Life.
Cline said, “On a selfish level, we take| 
more from Residence Life then we £ 
to residents. Nothing on campus equals I 
it. It definitely is the most prized posi l 
tion a student can ever hold.”
IeUes1 Ftxoagt xe9t es 9igm xist
Horror Stories
In any case, introducing a male 
college student on the show would 
present various neat plot oppor­
tunities.
The first thing required would 
be phasing in a general feel of the 
character.This would work espe­
cially well if the character was a 
nice-guy recluse (like me).
After a few episodes one of the 
women would of course want to 
find out just who this guy is and
(If you see a trend here, 
please don’t take it too seri­
ously!)
Then the writers would have 
to determine if the student 
would end up “winning” or “los­
ing.”
If the student does turn out 
to be a doormat, maybe he can 
win once in a while to bring in 
the 90210 viewer base. If he 
loses, then of course comes fur-
by Tom Harper while doing so would probably ther plots where he vows re-
Face it — life can be a major 
drag. Especially here at CMU, 
where weekends often consist 
of work, work, more work, and 
after that, a little more work.
There are weeks and week­
ends when the sum of our social 
lives is Physics, Calculus, and 
Biochemistry.
It’s enough to drive anybody 
out of their minds.
I’ve been driven out of my 
mind enough 
times to start 
wishing I had a 
starring role on 
Melrose Place, or 
even wishing 
that someone 
like me was a 
character.
That show is ____________
getting a little —mmmmm—mm 
to bland lately; the characters 
are all stale and one-dimen­
sional. They have too many 
psychotic women on the verge 
of nervous breakdowns, and 
men addicted to sex, drugs, and 
other vices of our modern-day, 
hedonistic society.
I think they need more door­
mats anyway — Jo is just tak­
ing one too many hard knocks.
It’s bad enough that she al­
most lost her baby to certified 
lunatics three times.
Now, that’s life in the fast 
lane. I wonder if this stuff re­
ally happens to people who live 
in California? Maybe it’s the 
combination of natural disas­
ters and urban strife that cause 
this perpertual chaos?
end up sleeping with him.
Next, the student would acquire 
“friends” and a social life. Note 
that friends is indeed in quotes, 
because at least two of them would 
end up stabbing him in the back. 
The incidents leading to said stab­
bing in the back could be easily 
worked out later.
As for the social life, the only 
places for such an opportunity 
would be work and Jake’s bar.
Maybe the said student can get 
a job in the mailroom of D&D
venge.
I’ve always wondered this 
about soaps in general: Does 
every plot spring from one inci­
dent at the beginning of the 
show, and then the losers go 
for revenge, and then their vic­
tims go for their revenge, and 
then those victims go for their 
revenge, and so on, and so on, 
and so on... Gee, Guiding Light 
has lasted for thirty years— 
what happened to start it all? 
Now the character needs to 
be set apart 
from the other 
vindictive sex- 
crazed charac­
ters.
What can this
and then their victims go for their ^ etecln?™
Since differ­
ential equations 
and quantum
“Does every plot spring from one 
incident at the beginning of the show, 
and then the losers go for revenge,
revenge, and so on, and so on...”
Advertising and have an inside 
edge on all those wacky office 
politics — and then one of the 
women in the office would ad­
mire his keen sense of human 
nature and probably end up sleep­
ing with him.
Or the student could become 
Jo’s photo developer. She Would 
fall in love with his keen develop­
ing abilities, and a relationship 
would definetly ensue.
Next, the character would have 
to get involved in the overall plot 
of the season with all its compli­
cations.
This could easily evolve from 
the aforementioned stabbing in 
the back by one of his “friends” or 
the various times women slept 
with him.
mechanics could hardly fit into 
the plot, he needs some fea­
tures beyond being vindictive 
and sex-crazed.
Whatever they are, as they 
are implemented into his char­
acter, some women will prob­
ably find them attractive and 
end up sleeping with him.
But that’s only speculation.
Tom Harper thinks he would 
make a great Silver Mighty 
Morphin Power Ranger, NFL 
commentator, Models Inc. 
photographer,and romantic 
lead for Kelly Bundy. The gen­
eral consensus is that he 
watches too much Fox televi­
sion. He has been cutting down 
recently.
Carnegie Mellon University Learning Services announces:
Study Skills Tutoring
Is the amount of time you study reflected in your grades?
If not, then you may benefit from study skills tutoring that can 
demonstrate more effective study strategies and techniques:
note taking
test taking strategies
defeating procrastination
managing stress and test anxiety
one on one assistance in time management
Available FREE OF CHARGE to any and all CMU students.
Contact the Office of Learning Services, located in Building D, Room 159, 
at 268-6878 for more information or an appointment.
Network still links after Kobe quake
Focused on the 
Internet
by Kenton Shaver
Those looking for news pertain­
ing to the Richer 7.2 quake in the 
Kobe, Japan area can use the 
internet to dredge up some de­
tails. Three main tools are avail­
able in this endeavor: IRC, 
netnews, and the World Wide 
Web (WWW). These are means of 
accessing real-time discussion, 
usenet groups, and multimedia 
information, respectively.
The first place I went to in 
search of news about the earth­
quake was the usenet group
netnews. soc. culture .japan. Most 
postings there pertaining to the 
quake were inquiries for infor­
mation about the damage sus­
tained and the safety of friends 
and relatives in the area.
However, one message told of 
the WWW site http://www 
leland.stanford.edu/~shimpei/ 
index.html created and main­
tained by the Frequently Asked 
Questions listing keeper of the 
news group. This page contains 
links to other WWW sites hold­
ing information about the Kobe 
disaster including one in Finland 
housing a few JPG format pic­
ture files of earthquake damage 
clipped from Japanese TV (http:/ 
/www. niksula.cs.hut.fi/~haa/ 
kobe.html).
It also mentions the IRC chan­
nel #kobe for up to the second 
information. Initially the chan­
nel was very quiet although it
had 15 or so members. Later oninj 
the evening discussion picked up 
and alluvial soil, the relative 
power of the Northridge quake, 
and the location of various fault 
lines were discussed by channel 
members. An edited excerpt o 
this discussion is in my root dij 
rectory. Be aware that there is a[ 
lot of coincidence of selection in 
the production of IRC nicknames.
After #kobe, I checked 
clari. world. asia.japan. Billy Joel, 
the Associated Press reports, was 
in Osaka where he is touring and 
was awakened by the quake.
Fatalities in the Kobe area, ac­
cording to other wire articles, now 
number over five thousand. These 
reports are definitely the most 
formal source network of infor­
mation about the disaster.
Kenton Shaver is a junior En\ 
glish major.
Student Service Award begins third year
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffwriter
For the . third year in a row 
the Carnegie Mellon Alumni 
Association, in conjunction with 
the Student Alumni Relations 
Council (SARC)will present the 
Student Service Awards to four 
graduating seniors. The award 
ceremony will take place Sat­
urday May 20, prior to Com­
mencement.
The Student Service awards 
began in 1993 as a way to foster 
stronger ties with the student 
body and the Alumni Associa­
tion.
It was originally proposed by 
SARC members and accepted 
by then Alumni Executive 
Board President Donald 
Stitzenberg. These awards are
the student counterparts for the 
Alumni Associations annual 
Alumni Awards.
The awards are meant to honor 
“A Carnegie Mellon student who 
has demonstrated an exemplary 
balance of participation in extra­
curricular activities while pro­
viding unusual service to the 
university, the student body and/ 
or community.”
In early January nomination 
forms were mailed out to all 
deans, department heads, faculty 
members, and administrative 
staff members. Following their 
return, all juniors and seniors 
received the same forms.
Once the nominations are re­
ceived along with three letters 
substantiating the nomination, 
the selection process begins. 
First the nominations go
through a screening committee 
made up of SARC members and 
an alumni advisor. Once the 
initial candidates are narrowed 
down to a total of 16 (four final­
ists for each award) the SARC 
Committee passes those along 
to the Alumni Awards Com­
mittee who make the final deci­
sion on the winners.
The four winners along with 
their families are invited to the 
Alumni Awards Banquet which 
takes place on May 20 where 
they will receive their awards.
Nominations, along with the 
letters of substantiation, for this 
year’s Student Service Awards 
are due by February 10 and 
should be sent to the Alumni 
House at 5017 Forbes Avenue 
to the attention of Shelley 
Brozenick.
Peace Corps at CMU
Info Session: Thurs, 2/2, 7 PM, Student Center, Rm 206
We need someone to join 6,500 people 
already working in over 90 develop­
ing countries around the world.
To help people help themselves.
The work isn't easy. And it 
takes more than just concern.
It takes motivation. Commit­
ment. But it's a chance to stop 
dreaming about a better world 
and start doing something about it. 
For more info, call 648-7424

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995L3
Campus provides convenience
ON-CAMPUS, from page LI
For the Housing Office and the Resi­
dence Life Office, the social aspect of 
living on campus fits right in with the 
University’s philosophy of keeping a 
sense of balance in its students’ lives.
Director of Residence Life Tim Fos­
ter said, “Our hope is to create an 
environment in the residence halls 
that compliments the academic mis­
sion of the school by providing oppor­
tunities to live and grow in ways the 
students can’t in academic classes.”
Foster was 
echoed by 
potter who 
said, “The ob­
jective for 
students liv­
ing on cam­
pus is to pro­
vide an edu­
cational en­
vironment 
where stu­
dents are 
able to form friendships and be mem­
bers of communities. The boundaries 
of classroom and campus life merge 
into a common living experience.”
Although on-campus students enjoy 
the proximity to campus life, security, 
and the social possibilities not offered 
by off-campus residence, they have 
their complaints about life on campus 
as well.
“University housing is nice, but I’m 
not abigdorm fan,” said Justin Carroll, 
a sophomore in the BHA program liv­
ing in Delta Tau Delta.
“You don’t get to live the way you 
want because it’s on someone else’s 
terms,” he said.
“The price of housing is a set rate 
and can get expensive,” said Michael 
Doyle, a freshman Music major living 
in Hammerschlag.
Added Gach, “What’s sadly lacking 
is appropriate pricing for the limited 
variety of living spaces offered.”
The relatively high price of on-cam­
pus housing and the limited availabil­
ity of certain types of living spaces, 
such as
singles, are 
issues often 
of concern to 
both the
Housing Of­
fice and Resi­
dence Life.
Other com­
plaints con­
cern noise, 
unfulfilled 
maintenance 
requests, cramped living space, ab­
sence of cooking facilities, lack of con­
trol over choice of roommates and 
floormates, and a genral feeling of 
discontentment, regarding personal 
autonomy.
It seems that living on campus is a 
trade-off — the convenience of it is 
hard to beat, but there is a scarcity of 
the privacy and control that off-cam- 
pus residents enjoy.
Said Foster, “There are a variety of 
factors that pull people to the resi­
dence halls and also push them away.”
"There are a variety of fac­
tors that pull people to the 
residence halls and also 
push them away. "
— Tim Foster,;
Director of Residence Life
q99Puincrg HtxeUtog i He99totsm 9ttx
OFF-CAMPUS, from page LI
ing a kitchen more convenient. “I was 
tired of having to hide my damn toaster 
oven, which I couldn’t even use, under 
my bed every night,” he explained.
Keeping distance between himself 
and the school is also a benefit to not 
only his mental health, but also to his 
physical well-being. “I’ve always believed 
that the dorms are a breeding grounds 
for illness,” said Seymour.
Being away from campus allows 
Seymour to experience Pittsburgh on 
his own. “By living in my own apart­
ment, I can also get a different feel for 
the city itself, without having the school 
act as an outlet between me and my 
interactions with the outside world,”
Seymour said.
As for his present apartment, Seymour 
has become quite attached to his big 
windows as well as the other conve­
niences offered by living off campus.
With all the advantages of living off 
campus come a few disadvantages, such 
as an increase in the number of respon­
sibilities that accompany independence.
Not completely accustomed to domestic 
life, Seymour warns potential movers of 
dirty dishes, cleaning bathrooms and 
buying groceries.
“But then again, that’s why I have a 
roommate,” he said.
There is also the hassle of paying 
monthly bills, as opposed to the one 
balance at the beginning of each semes­
ter, which adds another burden to the 
heavy workload of the typical Carnegie 
Mellon student.
“Transportation can be a bit of a prob­
lem, too, depending on where you choose
to live,” said Seymour. If you don’t like 
walking, paying for buses and cabs, can 
add to the overall cost of living. “But, the 
general cost of living on-campus as op­
posed to off, isn’t higher or lower,” claims 
Seymour.
To find convenient off-campus hous­
ing, Carnegie Mellon’s Community 
Housing Office, in Morewood E-Tower, 
offers an updated list of available houses 
and apartments in neighboring areas 
such as Oakland, Shadyside, and Squir­
rel Hill.
Because on-campus housing is re­
stricted to the undergraduate popula­
tion, some housing off-campus asks for 
graduates students specifically, yet the
Marla Valenti/Tartan Photo Staff 
office is willing to help any student look­
ing for a place to live.
According to the Housing Office, some 
leases require the co-signature of a par­
ent or guardian, but in general it is not 
difficult to obtain off-campus housing.
In addition to such referral services, 
campus media such as The Tartan and 
The Pitt News advertise housing, as does 
The Pittsburgh Post Gazette and In 
Pittsburgh.
In finding potential roommates, as 
well as houses, apartments, and rooms 
for rent in private houses, CMU’s elec­
tronic bboards, local.cmu.misc.market 
and cmu.misc.market.apartments are 
other helpful resources.
Jewish Awareness Week opens eyes
By JESSICA PANG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Jewish Awareness Week is designed to provide a wide range of Jewish 
programs reflecting the similarly wide range of Jewish students on campus. 
Jewish Awareness week will allow Jewish and non-Jewish students alike to 
recognize and appreciate the many ways to experience this heritage and 
culture.
The week begins on February 1 with an Israeli Festival in the evening. This 
will feature Israeli food, dancing, and music, as well as lots of additional 
information about traveling to Israel. The festivities will continue through the 
12th, when the program will end with a ski trip to Seven Springs ski resort.
Festivities throughout the week include Jewish mysticism on Feburary 2, a 
program entitled “Saturday Surprise,” and sponsored by the Carnegie Mu­
seum of Art on Feburary 4, and a Holocaust awareness activity at the Jewish 
University Center on February 8. Many more programs are scheduled through­
out the 10-day period; for information on times and locations, look for posters 
on campus and in the Student Center.
Many of the programs are sponsored by different special interest groups, all 
of which are student directed. The social committee is planning the ski trip and 
the coffee house event, while the Israeli group is helping to coordinate the 
Israeli Festival.
The Jewish Community Relations Council is assisting with the Holocaust 
program. Student initiative is strongly encouraged and the programs are 
essentially organized by students for students.
The Jewish University Center/Hillel welcomes suggestions and involvement 
from anyone on campus who is interested in shaping Jewish Life at Carnegie 
Mellon University. Whether it’s exclusively Greek programming, Women’s 
Issues, or Gay or Jewish awareness, the Center is open and willing to generate 
programs that meet the needs and interests of all Jewish students on campus.
Anyone who wants additional information can contact Ruth Slater at rsbj, 
or call the JUC at 621-8875.
Maria Valenti/Tartan Photo Staff
Numerous lounges in Mudge House provide students with quiet areas to study (top). The enormous Morewood Gardens complex 
is home to over 1,000 students at CMU (bottom).
b K CPftHoaan vciomntsmg vUiexiLxt
Available immediately, and for 
Spring, Summer and Fall terms 
Modern luxury, short-term available, fitness center, 
reserved parking available, 24-hour maintenance 
Office Hours: 9 am - 5 pm 
Evening, weekends by appointment
Bates Hill Apartments 
3812 Bates St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Btxtcpasth CRyPEREC
Managed by____________
QNDCAsset Management, Inc.
i____a -------------------------------------------------------------
Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences (PGSS)
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU is available 
with the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. 
The PGSS is a five-week summer school for extremely 
talented high school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching 
Assistant/Counselor appointments are available in the areas 
of biology, chemistry, physics, computer science and 
mathematics.
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the 
start of the program. Preference will be given to applicants 
with outstanding academic records. You will be expected to 
simultaneously serve as dormitory counselor and to live in 
the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that the PGSS 
disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct program and social 
activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1100 - $1500 
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board 
PGSS is in session from June 25 to July 29. 
Counselor duties begin June 21, and July 29. 
Applications are available in DH 2201 or MI 271.
For further information, contact Gerry Rensko, Ext. 8-6669. 
Application Deadline: March 3, 1995.

---------------------------------------------------

Se?c ‘Wee ^entertains
'ddfim to bedroom pCayeQu ipment
IrSSS*
'¿eves stress Sexual diversity e\p(or<:d
i VjKMXVKXr LIES • ^I
; tease
»’«'woyfo,
FREE PIZZA
tn Tssnh bTuadaTwu sTh phadnhur noadThur bfTdTChgbfnhur ghdaudur bhTTshngonhur 
giiTMwdgwdur golnhdauawC hnbhnunwdgdalnur gwo UgvTMd onuaCwnhuy
cfn cghdgw fgu 1nnw dfn udMonwd wnpubgbnh Ts 9ghwnCan 0nUUTw 6walnhuadv 
uawin .Ikmy ,s vTM pTMUo Uajn dT 1niT:n g bghd Ts dfau dhgoadaTwr eTaw Mu 
gd TMh hnihMad:nwd :nndawCW
Tartan Recruitment Meeting 
Wednesday, February 1,7 pm 
Doherty Hall 2210
Call the Tartan Office at 268-2111 or stop by the Student Center room 104 for more information.

---------------------------------------------------

1995 IMMIGRANT 
VISA LOTTERY
55,000 PERMANENT 
RESIDENT VISAS
Available in Lottery Beginning 
January 31, 1995
Por more information contact: 
Ventresca & VentrescaAttorneys at l.a\v
(412) 261-5366vroTtb yrttSuCOLLEGE
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995 i_5
School of Graduate Studies 
Narrows Run Road 
Coraopolis, PA 15108-1189 
Phone (412) 262-8535 or Fax 262-4049
* If you have questions about earning a
graduate degree, call or complete this coupon for your free informational guide 
to graduate school. Mail to: School of Graduate Studies, Robert Morris 
College, Narrows Run Road, Coraopolis, PA 15108-1189
NAME
STREET
CITYSTATEZIP
COLLEGEDEGREEYEAR
MOCA5401 Walnut Street • Shadyside, PA 15232
Semi-Annual Sale 
All Seasonal 
Merchandise 
30% to 60% Off
qxH Fis Wassto kpecg rc migmA isH tigA 5ptcptoH1g *et
frozen green beans 
potatoes
Now, I understand that some 
people don’t look too highly on 
Shepherd’s pie, but I’ve never 
been able to determine whether 
these people were foolish or just 
plain nuts. This here’s my dear 
old mom’s own recipe, so pay at­
tention.
Start off making mashed pota­
toes — chop potatoes (I’d say 
about three or four big ones), boil 
for 20 minutes, and mash (a ricer 
works amazingly for this), add­
ing salt, pepper, and at least a 
little butter, although less than 
one would add for straight 
mashed potatoes.
While all this is going on, sauté 
the onion and green pepper in
butter, pepper- ----------------------
ing and adding 
Worcestershire 
(not too much
— just a few 
shots).
Now add the 
ground beef, 
turning and 
breaking until 
it’s brown; once 
it’s brown, add
the soup, garlic, and green beans. 
Mind you, don’t make the soup or 
cook the beans: just open the can 
and defrost the beans.
Here comes the hard part: you 
need some sort of casserole dish. 
My mom used a fairly deep one 
(tending towards cubic in form), 
but a relatively shallow one 
should work OK.
Put in the beef et al., then top 
with the taters. Bake, covered, at 
350 degrees until the top is a 
lovely golden brown. Yummy, 
amazing, delicious, and perfect 
for cold bodies that have just 
slogged across campus.
Oh, yeah: other people add corn 
(add it at the same point you do 
the beans), and I’m sure you can 
think of other things.
For instance, in lieu of tomato
soup, why not tomatoes? Crushed, 
stewed, or fresh-chopped, any­
thing should work.
It’s hard to screw up a casse­
role, so why not go out there and 
try?
Incredible Marinade
red wine 
teriyaki sauce 
onion 
garlic
green onion 
Worcestershire sauce 
spices, including dry mustard
This marinade is something I 
made up on the spur of the mo­
ment towards the end of last se­
mester. We had, I believed, some 
thin steaks that had been frozen 
well over a month, and I felt it
“Be quick with the 'shrooms so they 
don’t wilt, and add some marinade at 
the end (sizzle, sizzle, look at the crowd 
sniffing and wondering what's the won­
derful creation). ”
was time to do something with 
them.
I threw together the above in­
gredients (I’ll explain in a bit more 
detail later), thinking how to com­
pliment and build upon the fla­
vor of the beef... only to discover 
that it was pork chops.
Ah, well. With a bit of adjust­
ment, this marinade works for 
both (although chicken would be 
fairly different).
Anyway, the base is the wine, 
with the other sauces thrown in 
(Okay, I am in fact getting a small 
financial “consideration” from the 
makers of Worcestire sauce in 
return for this column; what do 
you want me to do, starve? Or, 
worse, eat bland food?) to add 
flavor; possibly a little more 
Worcestire than teriyaki.
Anyway, you’ll want to slice 
the onion very thinly, then quar­
ter the slice (about one slice per 
piece of meat), mince the garlic 
(or crush), and chop the green 
onion.
As for the spices, I had the 
standard Italian fare on hand, 
but only added a little of any of it 
(I believe thyme was key, but 
sniff for yourself).
More mustard is added than 
anything else, and, although I’ve 
specified dry, Grey Poupon or a 
spicy brown would work as well; 
please don’t use yellow mustard, 
as it has no character, and be­
sides, anyone with an open eye 
can snag free Grey Poupon pack­
ets somewhere.
Anyway, mix this all up in a 
shallow bowl or piece of
-------------------- Tupperware and
add the meat, 
making certain 
that all surfaces 
are covered.
This should all 
be done the night 
before you intend 
to cook the meal 
(if you haven’t
------------------- learned by now
not to start any­
thing before you’ve read the whole 
column, the hell with you; you get 
what you deserve).
Sometime halfway between the 
beginning of the marinade and 
the cooking, flip the meat.
Here comes a key: get mush­
rooms. Portabella or shiitake are 
best for this; anything is better 
than nothing. Slice the mush­
rooms and add them within an 
hour of cooking.
If you’re lucky enough to be 
able to grill your meat, then getto 
it, and sauté the mushrooms and 
onions in some of the marinade. 
Otherwise, turn the heat up high, 
give the meat a little head start, 
and cook away.
Be quick with the ‘shrooms so 
they don’t wilt, and add some
marinade at the end (sizzle, sizzle,
look at the crowd sniffing and 
wondering what’s the wonderful 
creation).
You now have for yourself the 
most tender cheap cut of steak or 
pork you can imagine. Go for some 
classy side dishes (I’ll give you a
broiled tomato recipe next time) 
and call it a fancy dinner.
Old Man Donner is still await­
ing submissions atjr4q. He can’t 
help you unless you help yourself; 
so tell him what he needs to know.
CMU has unique style
by SHANNON GIBNEY & 
JONMICHAEL MOY
Tartan Features Co-Editors
The beginning ofanewyear 
marks the beginning of new 
trends and fashions. Here at 
CMU, we are less subject to the 
whimsical changes that occupy 
the majority of our peers, as 
academic pursuits and concerns 
are far more pressing. How­
ever, certain fads do make their 
way through the seemingly im­
penetrable walls of academia, 
and influence styles of dress, 
ways of speech, and popular 
forms of entertainment.
So, what’s in, here at the 
University of deck stations and 
dramatic plays, black-clothed 
artists, and unhygienic scien­
tists? They may be wearing taf­
feta skirts and velvet dresses 
on the runways of Paris, but at 
CMU, hair-partedin the middle 
of the head, pierced noses, blue- 
jeans, and sneakers are all the 
rage.
Here in our little microcosm 
of fashion and style, Reeboks 
are out, Nike and Adidas are 
in. The men of CMU are (still) 
sporting Samba soccer shoes.
Tartan columnists who use 
words like “jewishly” are defi­
nitely out.
And could we please pull up 
those baggy, hanging pants 
guys? We keep on seeing them 
everywhere (unfortunately...). 
Those tight jeans keep on pop- 
pingup everywhere too—those 
went out with El Debarge. It 
seems that engineers, biolo­
gists, and other smart, compe­
tent, people should be able to 
grasp the concept of well-fit- 
ting jeans.
Belly-buttons are in and out, 
depending on who you talk to.
As always, campus food is 
out, eating out is in. Although 
Wean Wok is in, it’s out of Wean 
and into Navy Wok (starting 
next week anyway).
As for music, Grunge is in 
(listen to any top-forty station 
in the country, and you’ll be 
privy to every Pearl-Jam- 
wanna-be-band you ever didn’t 
wanna hear), as is hip-hop, and 
“alternative.” Glam-rock and 
Billy Ocean are definitely out.
John Biggs says that 
cornbread is in.
Despite these capricious 
trends in popular culture, most 
of us still believe in time-hon- 
ored phrase: it’s what’s on the 
inside that counts! So, boys and 
girls, believe in yourself and in 
the beauty of all things, includ­
ing Bon Jovi and Chia Pets.
LAW OFFICES OF GARY STEINER
¦if IMMIGRATION LAW - Permanent Residence (Green Cards), Work 
Permits, Change of Status
INJURIES - Accidents, Improper Medical & Dental Car e, Dangerous 
Products - No fee unless we collect 
FAMILY - Divorce, Custody, Pre-nuptial Agreements 
¦£t BUSINESS - Contracts, Start-ups, Negotiations, Joint Ventures, Real 
Estate & Business T ransactions 
¦ft EMPLOYMENT LAW - Wrongful Discharge, Discrimination, Sexual- 
Harassment 
* ENTERTAINMENT, ARTS, & MEDIA LAW
ONE OXFORD CENTRE - PITTSBURGH 255-3777
Well, you know, Old Man 
Donner generally gets his col­
umns done Thursday or Friday 
afternoon, after Studio and be­
fore dinner, with the late sun 
sending its fiery orange and red 
streaks through the blinds that 
so inadequately attempt to block 
it.
I feel that it is this environ­
ment that lends my column the 
casual, reflective air that my fans 
have grown to love (more on this 
later).
Well, it’s after 8 pm Saturday 
night, and I swore to my editors 
that I’d already have this piece 
in, so if you detect any subtle 
errors creeping in, chalk it up to 
Yellow Cab, PAT, and a double- 
heapin’ helpin’ of senioritis (as 
some of you may recall, this is my 
10th consecutive full-time semes­
ter in these hallowed halls—and 
my second outside the tiled halls 
of my beloved Donner).
As I blustered my way over 
¡here, I couldn’t help but think 
that a big, steamy, meat-and-po- 
•tatoes kind of dish would surely 
; ' my circulation going. What 
¦else could come to mind but...
’ Shepherd’s Pie
1 lb ground beef 
t‘ chopped onion (white) 
chopped green pepper 
minced or crushed garlic 
Worcestershire sauce 
canned tomato soup
vrmPGs
Earn a graduate degree 
in just two years.
Day, Evening or Saturday Classes.
Accounting Computer Information Systems Finance Health Services Management Marketing Project Management Sport Management •
MS Also Available in Business Education Instructional Leadership Taxation
HOWARD HESSEMAN
NEIL SIMON’S
Iv&,lB.DON THE 23RD FLOOR
DIRECTED BYJERRY ZAKS
ES3WPXI HOTEL
LAUGHTER’S
THE BEST MEDICINE
for the winter BLUES
FULTON THEATER
JANUARY 31 - FEBRUARY 12
8pm Evenings; 2pm Saturday & Sunday Matinees
ITTSBURGH J^ROADWAY RIES
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
$15 student tic/çet 
nÁtfi your 
student 1.(0.
Present this flyer at the Benedum Center 
Box Office for advance sales or at the 
Fulton Theater Box Office 2 hours prior 
to performances. (Friday and Saturday 
evening performances are excluded from this 
offer.) Call 456-6666 for information.
* Selected seating. Good for one seat.

---------------------------------------------------

o
Calvin and Hobbes
LOOK. AT MX NEW \UVENT10N, 
DAO.' I UNRAVELED K HANGtR
tud iDoed cl
OUT TUE BACK 
O? (Al PANTS 
TO MAKE A 
TAILUOOK !
NOW, WUU A ROPE STRETCHED 
ACROSS TUE DOORVlki, I CAN
ratsl culD t MDDG tl lDi
SPEED, AND TUE HOOK W\U- 
GRAB TUE ROPE AND STOP ME 
BEFORE I CRASH OUT TUE 
WINOCN ON TUE OPPOSITE WML!
by Bill Watterson
V1ELL ?? DONT JUST S\T 
THERE, MAN! GET OUT > 
SOME PATENT 
APPL\CAT\ONS.' Jrrf¦,
I WONDER NOW MANN 
FORTUNES HE'S LET SUP 
THROUGH UlS FINGERS.
* ^ . 
,lM-
¡ U
CghC inill
dnmM m y woy, A 
Twinky. J
¿2
V'S ^ .
.. AND SUDDENLY. TUE EAKTU 
OPENED UP/ V1ML\N6 HELPl£55Ui, 
MOt TUMBLED HEAD OVER HEELS 
DOWN TUE SMOKING CUPSM UHUL 
UE SPLASUED \NTO TUE MOLTEN 
MAGMA AT TUE PLANETS CORE, 
WHERE HE SLOWLY MELTED 
BEFORE 1GN\TING \N A SPITTING 
wIMpr.aE Of GREASE.'
pcBBw
EVERYTHING \S 
SO DARN HARD.
L WISH L COULD JUST TAKE A 
PILL TO BE PERFECT AND I W\SU 
I CCULD JUST PUSH A BUTTON TO 
Wm ANYTHING I WANT.
THE AMERICAN 
DRENA UNES ON.
WHS SHOULD I 
UAVJE TO WORK 
POR tVERYTHlNG if 
ITS L\KE 5AM \HG 
I DONT DESERTE IT/
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
DldCg Ad mdyg .rXe fhRXTture

---------------------------------------------------

f.
If
DldCg Ad mdyg .rXe fRRXTture
tkmpjvr-BI9S5 Jcfm McPTienor/Oal hr Ummjl
"The plumber says that the replacement parts 
tor the toilet won't be in for three more weeks, 
and he left us this.’’
©W5
.91 M*rt\.UPttrt©UM5M/W+-
(aÇLOÇfJ
LETS USE SOtA£ OF 
lut NhAT,S5Des
WE LEARMEO 1*0 
THERAPY TO RESouvE 
I OUR PlFf —B—efo—ro
x ,q-j vSaXb rOoiO . 
( 1 FEEL AriGft». JZiFBeLyouTX /TpttLbo uiT'X[ ao&er^amp x a I frustration, \v laar lgesSgtSamp o u tidSd saydCasSS h>— \JL FEEL iRRiTATED.y
^ ^ ^ vr S;89 ABE
cikSy AOPlTlOiJM-Sv)G&SST\o^Ç By wtu-)
B x 1mg xe0 bIAAB x) ^Hflr ËATS V ft ROBOT j L
x ’ bXT utEjeSy \.
THÊ EvMuBEQIrJ ' 
ktfUmN yBLR OgOVLL
bEowz
v¡ciAm­ $dd:?rHA 
S£A Mo^STte.
THAMViyoU FOR. ' 
SUAR1M6THAT. I'M
r—yundutmy ak s—ig
. RES&MTPUL. ___/
1 F-EtL30u& lEftlWiîM, AMO 10 BESPOKE X Feel Si tree. >
I FEELiJouRScoert, UUvCH x also shaeg. Amo MOW I‘H St«û.tiJc> 
To FEE.U SPITEFUL
VldOlCTlVE. y——"
I SHARE ^OOfi. 
RESEMTMEMT, A »OP 
X maRD wppE RADMvwOET ERROR.- 
k x\llA
rTH£ THAT 
[WAS A ttorOSTE.fi. 
\WHAT 6ATS* ,V THE. 8RA»fO y
Bate sHilApra
WHAT GOT v &AT£kJ .
Uoo&oo A^P > 
-rut t\A^T 9CAH\JGMA^lf
'THÉ. MArtO£\L\> 
nH’Bx nA• L96M 
uUu AFfc\CA ’Ud 
soi»o&s mce t V__>
lap, Mcwhvb fwa
VOUAT 6ATS- 
Gia^ MOUSES
mn38312 S.
bHoST NYg’.m
Tut bYLg1bl
Ba3e Pb8mSi 
. P6.A6otO
f1 FEEL ÜOOE. COMVEhPT, 
AMO X PEEL CûmPEUEü 
TO T&U. yoU l PEEL 
yi^TE»SE RePUGMA»JC£. >
I HEAR. UWAT UOU 
ARE SAyi»J&, Alt«o06H 
1 KOST Aom\T I'M ^ P6EUU6 UTTEfi. / 
COMTEMPT eiGHT 7 - NOLO. /—
fTHA^'C. SOU FoPL> 
SHARi »ifc, THAT. X 
ASSUQE -dOU X FEEL 
JOST AS tnuCH. IF K)0T 
.MOOE., PlSGuir FoR v you. y—
wdk V>Lb1 SlMPUd,
X PEEL you AÊC. A 
COMPLETE JERt.MOrOSTEKZo\o/-CHÊ UltTU. UTTtE 
Ti»jy &JÊ lTtl 
QtSTftoy All OF , 
frte. cmt5 j 
\ THt VMU0LÊ. / V vOOft.L^7 /
THE IOO-FOOT 
pot what ArrAtttp 
. Tt(t CHAlfi. y
cbXT:
Mo>0fTte- HOP . 6AT6fô. >Amgj krcFg:$4:
CAT UJHAT wftS MRWtAL- 
P0U)tfiS SuT He'5 sap .
Nl'J CAT IS 
fl ROfioT t ATTHA«Jt ÜOü FoR iHABiJfi 
THAT. AMO X MUST ÊEfVf
aUIb TIggLSmM eR I
MA*e-CAU4C. IS A FoBm 
OF U0ME-C.AU.IMG, you , 
UlAMt-CALLAO JEE.C. c-S
TH AM< you FoB SHACM6 
TUftT. X HOST POlrtT
kGa UYH1J1^O bUIb
yOOR LAÎT RENAflfe 
FELT LltiE MAHE-CALUdG.
THE. (2oCtl»J' ¿-rtAifi. 
e*H’• e*’M A 8l6 . GlA»JT MOiUSTeR^
'HOLO DO C0UPUE5 
LAST uJlTHOUT 
THESE dYk—flAD
I COMKUMVCATIOM\T€chOvQO€Ç?y
THE FAT
6A8y/
vJUOGE LAMCE fie IS ^gouiT -ft Ci\U 
THt 0fpes(^6 CouMSELS ND 
Nvf 8ÉMCH To THf
___ LMtOC-H
WrfAT me HELL is HE 
¦DbtKlfc UP THCR.E? >
PUMMO
/f»W
(AU* Sf«K«M ceo /
mTtT5u E wTS
ZOmRb xDSm 
IM MVU£(L's
TUt^ CoupAvi i$ Ftp*uy beT-
TiMt» -THE (?es.?ECT________
IT -pfSCHvJCè-- W —
THE Top j-----------------
E^EcuTH'E* HAMG / / _______
OHT "niERti. f I À \
-r^A,-T'$ ç-rni^ûE. ^PPA^uV 
(VÊ'VE 0O-J-H -gEEfc) ^ftwSofl^P Tb(^ ;
gec-Au^E wg'ug 
uJ&S'TEl^ 'PpoO UjvJWk 
LE'NpÉfZ.s," ----------------
Ai^-C ’rf
/ 7 \ ^lOtxwt? TWAT'5
/N, %/V
¦ *<«. nfcicfe r&oH THE 
:frSFi ni^T u0E0IhI joiur
artnA ruery M.asi 
/ HÊPkg.î) um(\t ^ ^MAPPy 
I Pizti.5 ct Y«J.
^ V MLB. r^^-'JWTV^
dl cohpse i ^pofUso(iet> tHeju(
I uJ&fJT -THÊIH f0 4t>'^ THE 7 -------------
OAiS" k*j't \
xI IP vM2 M•3Dc0J
“j [] cAIii? ’r”D¡O5A
o J VE^
MrS \ r, 2B7B Frf.O
foo.,. 'povP&t^ ¿îo<L<lu.PT5>Njjj onb S s/ueu_
.. I uoiooeit nnXr
5ft>iJSDfZ. us F«. (I 
”1 f^B^.g,eiL SHip^ r-------
1

---------------------------------------------------

S.t/ya' y«>t
THAT\S WHAT FATHER 5AIP 'rea You tolp him I 4M A/(?r ie£^pr 
FOR^BATTLE?
F0/5 NOiaJ, IA/E AA/D T//E CHINESE 
ARE USING. EACH OTHER. ß(JT AFT« 
KÖ6,(7/?Y£> FALLS, WE WILL HAVE TO 
FfQHT THG CHINESE. AND IT WILL 
EB A LONG A NO SLDOVY WfiR.
AND IP suf zSatdun 
GovmPi’oe nre 'Sb 
.WITH vSgtzreJ
re GS’l nr’G W/lf? 
V'lTH f/STtzre /i- 
JU5T A hezJ’atd’fzp 
SOOhl SCneb'SblE re 
WILL UpTzE’a S zSrkrw 
nu CRUSH tHBEoCsHE 
SmalcyiPdyUs nrQ t6wQ, k££NW£y^____
_____ *>
O’
/"V“»
Reo-t^n^
oJ+. j«x- W^o4evJ
\
a^ain 1
7^:a* -v«f- \ÖL-----------------N-f \
/rhe kst season 
of Wkat's aWe*idell? | 
js goinjj -to be a 
cJoo«-/-
CfOO^r CfsCcJ^,.
StuBA ge*C
check. 
' /
FORBIDDEN WORDS yJJ3
ATT EWTIOtf DEFICIT DISORDER 
THE 66.U. CURVE 
fc\(b GOVERrtrAE^T &OBBITT CAN1N6 CAPITAL GAlMS TAX CUT CAP~lACfc,\»OG> 
CHANNEL SURFING THE CLIrJTSTONES
fYAb^ITb HLbU AMERvcACUTTING £066 CVJ&fcQ. AKJ^Trtl0(bDuiee& 
WLA E1 siecLeN1p wOC,NRN,o9yS GENERATION X
zgaDDaH
Mte.INTERACTIVE LIMITED EDITION 
LYLE AMD EfclVC 
MAN OP THE 3EAR MlCHAEL AMP LlSA lAAR'E 
MORPHlN NERD 
OUTRA6&OOS P.C.4DaglgAtaaH ADnneAl 
4DaglgAtaaH iNcofcfcECT 
iDYen muHlTguhPRAY FOR o.j.
ROCK ’Kl' ROLL HALL OF FAfAfc 
SlMPLYTUE WeslF 
sieAgta RIGHTS STATE OF THE ASIT SUCK? SUPERMODEL TECHNO THRILLER TOOlO U61QOITOOS
lTe OalgGtle tuHlTgDD 
xgnl*ta tuHlTgoe>VOAROKi DRUGS WELFABC B.£FOBfv\ 
Z.EITGEIST 
:)

---------------------------------------------------

lì
Volume 89, Issue 14DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania30 January 1995Beaux Arts promises fun, music
Beaux Arts Ball 1995 shows good potential Beaux Arts Ball: Past and present exposed
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Diversions Editor
It is time again for another 
Beaux Arts Ball, an opportunity 
for our community to get dressed 
up and enjoy a night of celebra­
tion in honor of the Fine Arts. 
Unfortunately, it is also an op­
portunity for first- and second- 
year students to yet again clasp 
each other’s hands and shout the 
rallying underclassman motto: 
“What the hell is that?” After 
seeing the unhappy faces outside 
Doherty Hall ad­
vertising Beaux 
Arts Ball tickets to 
less fanfare than 
is given to the 
credit card booth 
across the side­
walk offering free 
Slin-ky’s for no 
more than one soul, 
it became clear that 
this event required 
coverage. Having 
met with two mem­
bers of the Beaux 
Arts Committee, I 
am pleased to say 
that I am prepared 
to shed the light of 
knowledge on CFA’s 
festival of mirth, 
mayhem, and mas­
querade, which is ad­
vertised this year un­
der the name “The In­
ner Apple: An
Epicurion Ecstacy 
Exposed.”
Basically, Beaux 
Ai*ts Ball is one big 
party. Costume- 
are a pre-requi­
site (“If you do 
not bring a cos­
tume, a cos­
tume will be 
supplied for 
you, and you 
will have to 
wear it.
Those not 
wearing a 
costume are 
thrown out 
by security,” 
proclaims 
Alicia Allen, a 
senior in the 
BHA program and producing 
manager of the Beaux Arts Com­
mittee), and fun is everywhere 
you could think of to look.
“The entire [CFA] building will 
be devoted to works of art that 
directly relates to the theme, 
which is a vague theme...” says 
Nicholas Hohn, chairman of the 
Board, and a senior in the Drama 
department.
The name takes its origin from 
an ancient society; “The 
Epicurions were a group of people 
who knew how to appreciate the 
finest things in life, espe­
cially the Fine Arts,” 
says Hohn.
One of the 
most plausi­
ble causes 
of confu­
sion a- 
bout the 
Ball a- 
mong un­
derclass­
men is that 
unlike other 
happenings at 
Carnegie Mellon, 
this event is not on a regular 
schedule, nor has it ever been.
“First in 1915, it happened 
pretty regularly for the first 20 
years of its existence, and then it 
went through some financial dif-
difficulties are indeed a huge part 
of Beaux Arts, since it’s a self­
sustained activity. “It’s totally 
self-supported,” says Allen, “We 
don’t get any money from the 
University.”
In the entertainment depart­
ment, they’re banking on an en­
ergetic funk-fusion band called 
Milo Z, as well as the theatrics- 
friendly Squonk Opera, and a lo­
cal band called Herencia.
“We just have tons of bands 
coming to us asking to play, and 
we’re trying not to turn anyone 
away,” Hohn says, so the locals 
are present and accounted for.
mances by at least ten bands on 
three different stages, and large 
art displays. There will also be 
unlimited food and drinks.
“The ticket price pays for ev­
erything,” says Hohn, “Everyone 
can come to the Beaux Arts Ball 
with an empty pocket, and not 
worry about whether or not they’ll 
have a good time.” All in all, the 
Beaux Arts Ball looks like it will 
be a great night of food, friends, 
and fun.
Unfortunately, t\
Ball cannot go on with­
out the help of the 
student body.
By DAWN WALLHAUSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU first introduced Beaux 
Arts in 1915. The original Ball 
copied a traditional celebration 
held at the Ecole des Arts in 
Paris, France. The theme of 
our premiere Beaux Arts:
reflects a long-standing tradi­
tion at Carnegie Mellon, it is far 
from an annual tradition. For 
the first few years the Ball was 
held every year, but expenses 
dictated that the event occur less 
frequently.
After that, two years between 
Balls became the 
norm. TJhen a 
four year gap was 
decided on in 
1954, and ac­
cepted as the ap­
propriate interval.
Oddly enough, 
despite the resolu­
tion to offer Beaux 
Arts every four 
years, the only four 
year interval to 
actually oc­
cur hap­
pened
are placing 
bids and at­
tempting to grab 
a headline act.
All of this is not 
unsupported by 
AB, though — 
they’ve giving them 
some funding, as well 
as lending sound sys­
tem help.
“How we got involved 
with them is interesting,” 
says Hohn. “Drew [Ross] 
promised us a certain amount 
of money to help us hire a band, 
and when he passed away [in 
November], Martin Dixon [the 
chair of AB] took over that posi­
tion... He’s been good keeping to
Acuities,” says Allen. “[Eventu- Drew’s promise, he’s been very 
ally,] it started up again, but it good in giving us advice in how to 
was pretty much banned in the deal with agents, so they’re great, 
70s, because appreciating the AB is great.”
‘Fine Arts fbravato) was, I guess, Although the $25 cover may 
too ‘elitist’ for that particular era seem hefty (it goes up to $30 after 
••• it came back full force in the the first of February), Hohn as- 
80s, though, and there were some sures that ticket buyers can ex- 
financial difficulties...” Financial pect a fully-catered meal, perfor­
is faced 
with the ques­
tion that any com­
mittee hates to face:
Can the event actu­
ally happen? “It’s 
nerve-racking,” 
says Hohn.
“There seems 
to be a lot of in­
terest around 
campus,” says Allen, “It’s 
just that people haven’t 
really realized that they 
have to commit the money 
now, so that we can be 
sure that we can hire a 
headline band, because 
... only ticket sales go 
into the budget, and we 
have to refinance our budget de­
pending on how many tickets we 
have.
The tickets can be bought at the 
Information Desk in the Student 
Center. The Beaux Arts Ball will 
happen on February 11, so get 
your tickets now!
The Original Toga Party.
While the Ball at the Ecole in 
France marked the close of 
school, Beaux Arts for us seems 
to be intended only to alleviate 
the winter “blahs.” The event 
generally occurs in February, 
although it took place as late as 
April during one year (1960).
Although the Beaux Arts Ball
b e -
C7~l^r t w e e n 
1956 and 
1960. After 
1960, the Ball was abandoned 
for nineteen years—until 1979. 
Tartan coverage of the 1979 
(February 27,1979) Beaux Arts 
Ball explains that Beaux Arts 
had “gotten out of hand” in the 
past.
While it’s not clear exactly 
what had “gotten out of hand” at 
the Ball in 1960, it’s safe to as­
sume that it had to do with the 
limited security offered and the 
large quantity of liquor served. 
What is surprising is that liquor 
continued to be served at Beux 
Arts until and including 1985. 
However, for the Ball in ’79 and for 
every Ball since, extra security 
had been hired to keep things in 
line.
Of course, Beaux Arts Balls in 
1990 and 1993 did not include 
alcohol; nor will this year’s Ball. 
But while restrictions on bever­
ages have gotten more strict of 
late, other restrictions have re­
laxed.
In 1926, Beaux Arts regulations 
allowed that only students, fac­
ulty, and alumni of CFA could 
attend. That didn’t change until 
1979, and even then outsiders were 
required to be a guest of someone 
affiliated with CFA. Now, not only 
is Beaux Arts open to all students, 
but those attending can bring 
guests not affiliated with the Uni­
versity.
Even the costumes tradition­
ally worn to Beaux Arts used 
to be restricted. In 1954, 
no costumes “suggestive of 
the opposite sex” were al­
lowed. These days, almost 
anything goes. In fact, in
1993 one person attended 
clothed in little more than 
cellophane wrap.
It almost goes without 
saying, then, that music 
and entertainment pro­
vided at the Beaux Arts 
Ball has changed over 
the years. Originally, 
one band would be 
hired to perform 
through­
out the 
night. 
Eventu­
ally, the 
Ball in­
cluded a 
few bands 
playing vari­
ous types of music 
including classical 
and jazz as well as 
actors performing 
skits. In 1979, mu­
sic included folk and 
disco as well as jazz, 
and a laser show and 
costume contest
1 were ad-ded to the 
lineup. In 1985 a disc 
jockey livened things 
up. In 1993, King 
Missile headlined for 
Beaux Arts as a big name 
band, aside from several lo­
cal bands and a casino area. 
Unfortunately, not every­
thing that has changed has 
changed for the better. The 
previously mentioned 
absence of event-sup­
plied alcohol for 
Beaux Arts is one 
negative — but 
rules will be 
rules, af­
ter all.
The 
cost of 
tickets for 
the Ball 
has risen 
over the 
years as 
well. In 1979, stu­
dents considered $10 to 
be a high price to pay for ad­
mittance. But ticket prices jumped 
to$32.50byl993. Gratefully, tick­
ets this year cost only $25 if bought 
by February first, after which the 
price jumps to $30. The Ball will 
be held on February 11.
The Beaux Arts Ball has had its 
ups and downs; it’s been banned 
and revived. It’s been restricted, 
set free, and restricted again. It’s 
always been a bit on the expensive 
side, although this year will prove 
slightly more affordable than 
1993’s. But as always, Beaux Arts 
promises a good time to be had by 
all.

---------------------------------------------------

I rActivities fair 
1995
Tomorrow
/
• + \ - * 
i V
\lA
Tuesday, January 31 sf 
Student Center Drill Deck 
5-7 p.m.
Meet representatives from 
the many clubs and organizations7 
Learn how to get invovied.
Refreshments and Giveaways!!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995111 
_____LGeneral Tso lives on
ANCIENT CHINESE SECRETS
By Ido Ben-Shachar 
and Aaron Weisberg
Submitted for your approval, a loosely connected 
band of men, known to all as great cultural icons: 
Captain Crunch, Count Chocula, Burger King, and 
General Tso. Each one, in his own way, has 
contributed to the development of American cui­
sine. Captain Crunch, mythical lord of the high 
seas, Count Chocula, mysterious eastem-Euro- 
pean nobleman, and Burger King, who rules 
over certain rural portions of Wyoming ^
with an iron fist, are some of our 
personal heroes.
After months of painstaking 
research and undercover es­
pionage, we have discov­
ered to our dismay that thest - 
are only fictional characters, 
devised by evil marketing de­
partments in an effort to 
brainwash the American 
public! However, one maif 
stands alone: General Tso. In 
an attempt to find informa- Mark Eggert/ 
tion on him, we visited sev- Tartan Artist 
eral libraries (OK, actually 
just one... and it was Hunt), 
and found nothing. We ex­
panded our search by call­
ing over 15 Chinese restau- - * 
rants in the area, and asked 
each whether or not they knew 
anything about GeneralTso. Af­
ter their initial confusion as to 
why anyone would care, many were rather helpful.
Tsung-t’ang Tso, famous military leader of the 
Ming dynasty, was appointed commander in 
Chekiang, and was soon made governor-general of 
the region. As the story goes, Tso was in a small 
town of Shing Du with his men, and very much 
liked the way they made their chicken. He liked it 
so much in fact, that he would prepare the dish for 
his soldiers.
The dish commonly served in Ajnerican-Chinese 
restaurants is a sweeter version of the recipe Gen­
eral Tso used. Also, it seems that in China this dish 
is prepared with more vegetables.
Interestingly enough, the restaurant we visited 
this week, Peking Gourmet Kitchen (2018 Murray 
Ave., Squirrel Hill, 421-1920) serves a verson of 
General Tso’s chicken very remim scent of the origi­
nal recipe.
When we entered the quaint Squirrel Hill estab­
lishment, with our posse of eight, we were ready for 
some serious Chinese food. An American gentle­
man approached us, and we informed him that we 
had reservations. To this, he responded, “Sit any­
where, it’s all free tonight!” As the man sat down 
at a table and began eating, it dawned upon us that 
he in fact was not an employee of the restaurant. 
Embarrassed, we waited for the real maitre d\
As we were led to our table, we were pleased to
see a lazy-susan waiting for us. Perhaps one of 
the greatest innovations of this century, the lazy- 
susan has increased our efficiency in consuming 
Chinese food, thereby making the world a better 
place for us all. Eager to begin our meal, we all 
quickly sat down; that is, all but one of us. Our 
good friend Burt, simply by touching his chair, 
broke it into several pieces. Fortunately, the 
waiter was kind enough to supply us with an­
other, explaining “the glue’s come off!” 
Surprised and delighted by the low prices we 
saw on the menu, we ordered many dishes, along 
with the usual appetizers. The wonton soup had 
much less salt than others we have had, and was 
pleasant. The egg drop soup was not the tradi­
tional yellow color, and it had raw mushroom 
pieces floating in it. All in all, it didn’t have 
enough flavor. Unfortunately, we did not enjoy 
our egg rolls at all. They were filled with 
something that resembled seaweed, 
and we were frightened.
As our entrees began to ar­
rive, we decided to try our 
beef fried rice first. Thank­
fully, not too much on­
ion was in it (a mistake 
other Chinese restaurants 
often make). It was pleas­
ing to the palate, and helped 
counter the spicy nature of 
the other dishes.
The sweet and sour 
chicken was fantastic! 
Unlike most restau­
rants, which serve 
chicken nuggets with 
duck sauce, this dish demon­
strated a careful preparation 
of lightly breaded white 
chicken in a tantalizing sweet 
^ yet tart sauce. This was, with-
t/1- ¦ out a doubt, our favorite dish at 
Peking Gourmet Kitchen.
The General Tso’s chicken, being more 
traditional and typical of real Chinese food, was 
definitely not bland. It had a punch, due to its 
heavy spice, which made it unmistakably Gen­
eral Tso’s.
Not too much breading was used, which rein­
forced our belief that maybe, by some stretch of 
the imagination, this was healthy.
From the Chefs Suggestions Menu, we or­
dered Shredded Spicy Beef. This dish carried a 
distinct flavor that blew their Orange Beef out of 
the water. We highly recommend it.
Althougfrthe atmosphere was not picturesque, 
Peking Gourmet Kitchen had many qualities 
that made up for the broken chair. Their tea was 
rich, the service was quick, their prices are very 
reasonable ($7.75 for the average entree), and 
the lazy-susan was well oiled. In addition, they 
allowed the customer to determine the degree of 
spice in each individual dish, a definite plus. 
Unfortunately, they don’t deliver.
We give Peking Gourmet Kitchen three and a 
half out of five Tso’s.
Fortune of the week: “Be ready to capitalize on 
a number of remarkable opportunities (in bed).”
So where are we going next week? Ancient 
Chinese secret!
Trancers series mixes I cheese, entertainment
FILE 13
By Carey Clevenger
This week, we look at possibly 
one of the least-known and, in my 
opinion, most inventive series of 
films to date: the Trancers films, 
starring Tim Thomerson.
The original Trancers was re­
leased in 1985. It’s the story of 
Jack Deth, a Trancer hunter from 
the future, sent back into the 
body of his ancestor in 1985 to 
stop the evil Whistler from kill­
ing the ancestors of the Council 
responsible for maintaining or­
der in the future. What are 
Trancers? Well, consider what 
would happen if you turned some­
one like Arnold Scwarzenegger 
into one of the zombies from Night 
of the Living Dead.
This Whistler guy is in charge 
of the Trancers, so he has lots of 
them in 1985 Los Angeles. It’s up 
to Jack (with the assistance of 
Helen Hunt) to stop his nefarious 
plot and send him back into the 
future to be tried for his crimes. 
Of course, being from the future 
has its advantages: lots of neato 
gadgets!
For example, there’s the Long 
Second Watch, which, when acti­
vated, allows the wearer (Jack) 
ten seconds of time, while in the 
world around him, only one sec­
ond has passed. Unfortunately, 
it only has the power for one use, 
thus preventing Jack from abus­
ing it' to rob banks and get good 
seats at general admission sport­
ing events.
About seven years after the first 
Trancers film, Full Moon Enter­
tainment picked up the rights to 
do a sequel: Trancers 2: The Re­
turn of Jack Deth. It’s much 
cheesier, and much more enter­
taining. There’s a cigar-smoking 
16-year-old girl (she is the ances­
tor of Jack’s boss, McNulty, who 
has temporarily possessed her) 
and the ex-baseball player from 
the first film, who is now a mil­
lionaire and collects vintage fire 
engines.
Things are a little different this 
time. They managed to save 
Jack’s wife from the future, and
to have sent her back in time to 
assist him in stopping Whistler’s 
brother (played by Richard 
Lynch). This contributes to all 
sorts of comical situations, as 
Jack’s formerly dead wife meets 
new wife Helen Hunt in the past. 
However, my favorite sequence 
occurs about 30 minutes into the 
film, when a local grocery deliv­
ery guy arrives. It features the 
classic lines, “Leave it on the 
counter, Deli Guy,” and, “God­
dammit, McNulty! The next time 
someone passes you an exploding 
ham, I’m going to pass the mus­
tard.” A must see.
Trancers 3: Deth Lives is, in my 
opinion, the weakest in the se­
ries, but it still isn’t too bad. It 
seems that the U.S. government 
starts experimenting with 
Trancers in the 21 st century, and 
Jack must stop them. Under the 
guidance of Colonel Daddy Mama, 
the Trancers are going to be the 
future of warfare: but not if Jack 
can help it!
Assisting Jack are an android 
named Shark and his wife that 
they managed to save in the sec­
ond movie. And he needs them: 
these Trancers are much more 
intelligent than those in the pre­
vious films, and just as strong.
It just wouldn’t be a Trancers 
movie unless Jack’s personal life 
were in a mess. He is about to be 
divorced from Helen Hunt, and is 
going to meet her at a restaurant 
to try to work things out when he 
has to travel to the future to stop 
the Trancers, forcing him to miss 
the meeting. When he shows back 
up in the future, she has remar­
ried. Oh well, at least he has his 
wife back in the future!
At least, until Trancers 4: Jack 
of Swords, when his boss informs 
him that they have fallen in love 
with each other. But, if you can’t 
have love, at least you can get 
some cool weapons!
The Long Second Watch now 
has a self-generating power sup­
ply, allowing unlimited uses. He 
also has the new RBG-7 (“Really 
Big Gun”), which is capable of 
firing plasma bolts instead of 
bullets, and a butterfly knife that 
can cut through anything. He may 
be just as lonely, but at least he 
can kill more efficiently. And isn’t 
that all that really matters?
Things go wrong on his next 
mission, and Jack ends up in a 
parallel universe where the 
Trancers are equivalent to vam­
pires: they can suck the life force 
from living beings, and are all of 
noble birth. None of his weapon^ 
will work as intended: the Lonj* 
Second Watch works backward^, 
and Ills plasma gun is ineffective 
Only the knife is of any use. How­
ever, it’s a medieval world whei^e 
he has ended up, so that meanjs 
lots of sword-fighting and stuff. 
And he ends up with a girl at thte 
end of the movie. What more could 
you ask for?
Well, sit tight for just a minut^, 
there’s more: Trancers 5: Sudde ji 
Deth. This is supposedly going tjD 
be the last one they make, butjl 
would like to see the series cor 
tinued.
Jack is still trapped in the me 
dieval world, and must find 
way to get back home (Person 
ally, I wouldn’t have wanted to g 
back if everybody shafted me th 
way they did him. Oh well, the 
needed a plot).
He learns of a gemstone called 
the Timond, which is capable cjf 
sending the owner anywhere hfe 
wants to go in time and spac^. 
However, to obtain it, he needp 
the help of Prospero, a renegade 
Trancer who fights with the re­
sistance against the other 
Trancers.
Can they succeed? Will he bi 
able to get back home? And, mosSt 
importantly, will people stop 
screwing him over?
I am very impressed by thi 
series. They have found the pei 
feet blend of cheese and sci-fi, 
and Thomerson has made thè 
character memorable and a lot of 
fun.
Possibly the best thing aboul 
seeing these on video as opposed 
to cable (Full Moon has only re^ 
leased two films theatrically that 
I know of) is the “Full Mooii- 
Videozone” magazine at the end^ 
full of behind-the-scenes footage 
of the making of the film, which is 
almost as much fun to watch as 
the movie itself.
These films are very entertain^ 
ing, and get my highest possibl^ 
recommendation. I will be talk*; 
ing about more Full Moon reji- 
leases in the future; until then, 
give these a try! They’re a lot of 
fun.
Carey Clevenger is a junior cre\ 
ative writing major. Well, in his 
line of work, he didn’t think people 
would take “Maurice Clevenger £ 
very seriously.Beer makes for good marinara, batter, sauce
THE CORNER TABLE
By Jim Zelenka 
and Jon Ferro
The oldest recorded recipe is a 
Mesopotamian record of how to prepare 
a beverage from crudely baked (malted) 
loaves of unleavened barley. Over the 
millenia since this record was made, 
this beverage has evolved; the produc­
tion mechanism has been refined, and 
hops — originally added as a preserva­
tive — have become an important fla­
voring agent. Today, beer is more than 
just a sanitary, nourishing drink; it’s 
also an ingredient in many fine foods.
WARNING: this week’s column is 
aimed at those of you who are at least 
somewhat used to standing in front of 
the stove for some other reason than to 
get out from in front of the refrigerator. 
Yes, that’s right — it’s time for Cooking 
With Beer, and we don’t mean just grac­
ing your kitchen with its presence in 
your mug on the counter. For those who 
are alarmed at the idea of aiming a 
spatula at a bunch of helpless ingredi­
ents: we’ll forgive you if you trot along to 
the pub, now. This week’s recommenda­
tions are: Anchor Steam, Old West Am­
ber, and Rhino Chaser Dark Lager.
One basic way to begin cooking with 
beer is to substitute it for water in the 
preparation stage of your dish. This tech­
nique works best with foods that have a 
liquid or semi-liquid base.
Quite a few Eastern European stews 
and casseroles have a beer base for the 
gravy. To try adding this character to 
your stews, substitute a 50/50 mix of 
beer and water for water. The resulting 
flavor will be distinctly different from an 
all-water base; it is for this reason that 
we don’t recommend that your first at­
tempt leave out water entirely. Also, 
take into account the fact that the beer 
may mask delicate seasonings; a beer 
base is best with a hearty, simply sea­
soned stew.
For those unused to the flavor of beer 
in cooking, starting with a pilsner or a 
lightly hopped pale ale is probably best. 
As the cook’s familiarity with beer grows, 
more strongly flavored beers can be tried. 
Brown ales and porters make excellent 
goulash bases (be sure to add extra pa­
prika!). Hoppier pale ales are excellent 
additions to many chili recipes (and can 
even be used to add zest to store-bought 
seasoning blends).
Fish and shrimp are excellent when 
fried in beer (or gin, for that matter), 
either with or without bread crumb bat­
ter. We prefer to stick to pilsners for 
seafood, to avoid overwhelming the fla­
vor of the meat. Some enjoy using pale 
ales, and we know at least one person 
who swears by flounder fried in a porter 
(which we, alas, have never had the 
opportunity to sample). Fritter batters, 
which are often left overnight in closed 
containers to set up, can be improved 
with the addition of beer, which both 
adds flavor and reduces rubberiness.
A delicious summer treat is a grilled 
marinated flank steak. One of Jim’s fa­
vorite marinades can be prepared in just 
a few minutes. Mix about 20 ounces of 
your favorite dark lager, around 10-12 
tablespoons of soy sauce, and 2 tea­
spoons of garlic powder. Immerse the 
steak in the marinade- if it isn’t entirely 
covered, make more.
Cover it, and let it soak for 12-24 
hours. After that, throw it on the grill 
and prepare yourself for a treat.
Some claim that porridge is good with 
a bit of porter mixed in. These may or 
may not be the same sort of people who 
think that a bloody mary is a good break­
fast.
Beers can make delicious desserts too, 
in the infamous form of beer floats. To 
make a beer float, take a pint glass, fill 
it halfway with your chosen beer, and 
add about one scoop of vanilla ice cream. 
Don’t overstir it, or you’ll create a foamy 
mess that isn’t much fun to drink.
Darker beers generally make better 
floats, especially those that are more 
heavily flavored. For example, this year’s 
Anchor Christmas Ale makes a deli­
cious, creamy, nutmeg-flavored float.
The new Brooklyn Black (also known 
as Brooklyn Chocolate Stout) is fantas­
tically delicious with ice cream — it 
makes a creamy, chocolately beverage 
with an almost liqueur-like flavor.
The key to a good beer float actually 
isn’t the darkness or alcoholic content of 
the beer, but rather, the strength and 
character of its flavor. Keep in mind that 
most bitterness and other hop character 
are cancelled by the sweetness of the ice 
cream.
Whatever character your float will 
have will be determined largely by the 
malt and other additives. Winter beers
generally make excellent floats, because 
they’re heavily spiced.
There are some surprises, though. 
Stoudt’s Raspberry Wheat is very sweet, 
because the raspberries 
are macerated into the 
beer after the primary 
ferment, so the fructose 
is largely unconsumed.
A float made from this 
beer has a delightful, 
slightly-alcoholic rasp- 
berry-cream flavor.
On the other hand,
Pete’s Wicked Winter 
Ale, which is seasoned 
with raspberries and 
nutmeg, turns out to 
make a poor float.
The nutmeg isn’t 
present enough to be 
tasted after mixing with 
ice cream, and there 
isn’t enough malt to 
round out the flavor of 
the ice cream. This float 
is little more than a wa­
tery raspberry-flav­
ored vanilla milkshake.
tra Billy the Kids.
Jim Zelenka wishes Old West would; 
hurry up and send him his promised; 
“information pack.”
Next week (that’s 
right, we’re on a sched­
ule now, and this time 
we really mean it): Win­
ter Beers.
Jon Ferro’s bottle col­
lection is threatening to 
escape from his room. 
You can help by finding 
a Calamity Jane to 
trade for some of his ex-
Anehor Steam
Hats off to Fritz Maytag, for selling a bit of the 
family stock to invest in (read: bought to save from 
bankruptcy) Anchor Brewing in 1965. Anchor 
Steam is one of the most characteristic U.S. brews. 
The combination of very shallow fermenting vessels 
for the wort and three hoppings with norther nbrewer 
hops gives it a uniquely tasty, hoppy zest that isn’t 
too bitter on a hot summer day, nor too watery on a 
cool winter night.
Old West Amber
Old West Amber’s copper color and simple aroma 
disguise a real taste treat. Heavy hopping in this 
Minnesota product does not produce an overwhelm­
ing bitterness — instead, a somewhat malty begin­
ning is followed by a finishing blast of true hop flavor 
that combines well with almost any food. As an 
added bonus, each bottle has the picture of a differ­
ent western personality, such as Wyatt Earp or 
Judge Roy Bean.
Rhino Chaser Dark Lager
Rhino Chaser Bark Lager is a tasty beer when 
temperatures are warmer. The body is smooth and 
refreshing, yet has a pleasantly understated malt 
character to the nose and finish, without much 
hopping to interfere. It is dark brown in color, yet 
passes light reasonably freely. It’s excellent with (or 
in) beef dishes.

---------------------------------------------------

JÒk.
If students have a sense of belonging to their 
learning environment, they will be more 
responsible participants in its future.
% 111
la r gesS
TO MOTIVATE YOUR STUDENTS tO the
point that they are inspired to teach is more than a 
talent. It's an affirmation of a 
¡oh well done.
If you have been inspired hy 
your instructors and want to 
be an active participant in the learning 
environment of over a thousand students every 
year, you have the opportunity. You have it now.
CHITSERAN ByRZZD
LHwyDaHT is hiring instructors for 
the Fall of 1995. Come to the Information 
Session on Thursday, February 2 at 4:30pm in 
the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 136A, 
Refreshments will be provided. 
Applications are available in the CSW office 
in Baker Hall 140B, on the CSW Student Server in 
the Clusters zone, and in -cwOO on Andrew. 
Completed applications are being accepted 
through Friday. February 3 at 5:00pm.
For more information please contact 
Michelle Seibel, micki+@CMU.HDU, or 
Dan Kammerer, dk3t+@andrew.cmu.edu.
tm pSo
In order to participate in Room Draw for the 
upcoming 1995-1996 academic year, all students 
wishing to live in University Housing must pay a 
$100 Housing deposit by February 16, 1995.
This deposit is payable only to the Cashier's Office.
Questions? Call the Housing Office at x8-2139 and watch the b-board 
org.housing.room-draw for more details.
?Eww U996 ,TEePu lSub
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences congratulate our students for 
their outstanding academic performances during the 
fall semester.
HUMANITIES--------- 123----------
SOCIAL SCIENCES
• Carnegie Mellon ¦
FreshmenSophomoresJuniorsSeniors
Daniel ArpHolly AbernathyHolley AnstattCem Akin
Farida BudiwarmanScott AltschulerSonya BradyMichael Bahe
Carly CenedellaMichael AyoobLorraine BruceTroy Benowitz
Robert ChittisterDarren ChiappettaSalisha ChandraVittorio Bernardino
Jessica EgyhaziEric DahlemTricia DavisMolly Brennan
Frederick FoutzDerek DavisonChong EeFiona Chan
Katherine HartAnne DonovanSusan FentonKara Chipoletti
Christy HipchenAlisa GabbeGretel GaalJeffrey Czajkowski
Nancy HoShannon GibneyMichael GartlandDaryl Davis
Ming Doh HungJenny GoodJohn GebickiTheresa Heck
Arthur JoeConal HoJennifer GoetzJason Heinlein
Mark JohnsonKathryn HooverJill GoodallSang Woo Kang
S ameer KarimBret IoliJenessa GuntherEric Kim
Sung Ho LeeAmy JohnstonAnuj GuptaMandy Kinne
Alexander LewinEric KemnitzLauren HeinzAaron Kozbelt
Frank LigonsSusan KleinGordon JacksonSarah Kreidler
Christina LopezTristan KromerLawenda JonesSharon Kristoff
Alexis LubenskySerena LeiLesley KayCharles Kuba
Gregory MarcksAnna LorchMichael KeatingNaomi Langer
Mindy MarksRegis Paul MarcelinDonald KreppsMichael Matthew
Holly MatthewsMatthew MessnerJohn LeeAmy McDermaid
Maciej MatyjasIan MurphyCatherine MarquisNathaniel McNamara
Cory McMahonKiril OkunLaura McClureIsmail Nasir
John MuirWilliam RobertsonAlyssa McCunneyJohn Nimpfer
Okezi OtovoEmily RosenthalHeather MilesJoseph O’Hara
Phoebe PapageorgiouEric SalzmanNatalie MoyerJames Perry
Christopher PesciAndrew SeymourJason OuelletteEdgar Restrepo
Jennifer RaganAustin ShifrinAidan PalmerMartin Riker
Marie RichardsonJoline SikaitisMargaret PuskarCheri Rogers
Perrin RowlandMarla SpontakAdam RixeyAbby Schiff
Jennifer SmithLee SpuhlerGina SchuylerPeter Simonyi
Ting SoNathan StarkAdriane SeibertJeffrey Siu
Richard SvinkinRussell SteeleEdward SlavishakKelly Slease
Savit TewariBethany SuttonHeather StehneyChrista Sober
Janice WillsBeth TrapaniJason TogyerRebecca Stallings
Kerri UllucciHolly TraskJustin Sullivan
Anuj VaidyaGary WilsonWilliam Wood
Angel VerdugoCarter YangKara Yamot
Joshua WischEun YoonDamien Zoubek 
Leslie Zubaty
-vII ’qD 5&fFM55MqN5
submit poetry, short prose to Dossier
issue of love
works.duo thursday, February 2 at midnight
and can be dropped off in the Dossier box
on the Tartan server, in the box in the Tartan 
office, emailed to as86
contact b r o c k • i I (8 5748) or adrlano (2 3675) with quotlio

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 30 January 1995U.3
Thursday, February 2
Animal Farm
I wonder what sort of things would be on an 
animal farm: an octopus, a beaver, a chipmunk? 
Well, George Orwell has decided to put pigs and 
cows on his animal farm, and it’s all the better for it.
Based on Orwell’s novel about Communism, this 
movie was directed in Britain and is animated, and 
that’s just titillating. Full of commentary and inter­
esting discussion, this movie is not actually about 
animals on a farm, but it is an allegory about 
animals on a farm, and that’s titillating, too. In fact, 
the whole movie is titillating. It’s fun and it’s ani­
mated, and it’s swell.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, February 3
Ed Wood
While there are quite a few Ed Woods on campus, 
none of them were home when we called, so we’ve 
decided there is only one in the world that made bad 
movies. And his story is the basis of this movie, 
directed by Tim Burton and starring Johnny Depp, 
Bill Murray, and this other really tall, big guy.
Wood was the director and writer of Plan 9 from 
Outer Space and Glen or Glenda and wore funny 
sweaters. Throughout his illustrious career, how­
ever, he hung out with a bunch of strange people 
named Bunny and Tor and acted pretty strange 
around Bela Lugosi. All in all, the movie is titillat­
ing and comes highly recommended.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, February 4
Forrest Gump
If you’re really into Forrest Gump, you can read 
the book, written by Winston Groom, that has 
Forrest playing with monkeys in the Congo and 
running around with Racquel Welch. However, if 
you’re not into it all that much, just see the movie.
Forrest Gump, like a box of chocolates, is sickly 
sweet and requires lots of liquids to wash down. 
However, it’s still a swell and titillating film that 
deals with the problems of having a low IQ and 
sitting on a bench waiting for someone to pay 
attention to you. Starring Tom Hanks and a few 
other people, you’ve probably already seen this 
movie anyway, so whatever I say won’t sway you 
much. I’d suggest seeing it, but it’s your call.
At 5, 7:45,10:30 pm, and 1:15 am.
Sunday, February 5
Plan 9 from Outer Space
This movie, coincidentally directed by Ed Wood, 
stars Bela Lugosi in the worst performance of his 
career. In fact, the whole movie is pretty sad and 
pointless. But don’t let that titillating news stop 
you.
It’s all about aliens that are planning on taking 
over the earth with zombies, and they use Bela 
Lugosi to help them. So they dress him up in a black 
cape and then he dies, for real, and is replaced by 
another guy in a black cape. The film’s only merits 
are its B-movie charm and wit. It’s bad, but I 
suppose that’s fun.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Boys entertains, touches
By HEATHER ZINDLE
Tartan Staffwriter
During winter break, I saw 
quite a few movies, which means 
I was subj ected to infinite promos. 
As I was watching the preview 
for Boys on the Side, I as­
sumed it would be a typical 
comedy about three very dif­
ferent women thrown to­
gether on a trip across the 
country, and in the end they 
would just go their separate 
ways. Once I had the oppor­
tunity to actually see the 
movie, my expectations 
were proved both true and 
false. Even though much of 
the characterization is ste­
reotypical, the plot does 
have some surprising 
twists.
We first meet Jane 
(Whoopi Goldberg), a bohe­
mian musician, who an­
swers an ad by Robin (Mary 
Louise-Parker), a prissy 
realtor in search of a com­
panion for her trip to Cali­
fornia. The two are differ­
ent in as many ways as are 
conceivable, right down to 
their sexual preferences, 
but predictably become friends. 
Along the way, the two stop in 
Pittsburgh to visit Jane’s friend 
Holly (Drew Barrymore), in one 
of the best parts of the movie. 
Needless to say, everyone in the 
theater cheered during the pan­
oramic view of the city. After
much trouble, and more humor hood seemed out of place and did 
(mostly from Barrymore), the not add to the movie. The only 
three take off. They never make thing we really know about Jane 
it to the West Coast, though, and is that she is a homosexual, which 
due to extenuating circum- was used too often throughout 
stances, they all end up living the movie for simple shock value 
together in Arizona. I will leave and humor. The issue was not
©Suzanne Hanover
Whoopi Goldberg (left), Mary Louise-Parker (center), and Drew Barrymore 
star as three women who get stuck living together in Arizona, in the 
bittersweet comedy-drama Boys on the Side.
the rest to be answered by the 
movie, but the usual conventions 
of Hollywood cinema were in­
volved: love, birth, and death.
The character development in
dealt with realistically enough. 
Jane has the typical unrequited 
love; of course she falls in love 
with, and only pursues, hetero­
sexual females. This disappointed
the movie is disappointingly one- me because I really enjoyed 
sided, in favor of Robin. The black- Whoopi Goldberg’s performance, 
and-white flashbacks of her child- and felt the script was lacking in
depth concerning her role. Holly 
seemed to have been written in 
mostly for comic relief, which be­
came annoying, for there is only 
so much to laugh at in the sim­
plistic actions and ideas of the 
childish blonde.
The movie also tried, un- 
succesfully, to touch on almost 
every issue in modern society, 
from unwed mothers to homo­
sexuality. The AIDS aspect, how­
ever, was treated with sincerity. 
While the AIDS storyline is dealt 
with in everything from after- 
school specials to movies, this 
movie looked at it from a differ­
ent perspective, portraying the 
idea that a white, heterosexual 
female can contract AIDS, and 
can also live a normal life with 
the disease. .
It added to the plot in a touch­
ing way, not treating it as the 
main issue, but nevertheless 
showing the feelings and actions 
of a person with AIDS.
Altogether, I sincerely enjoyed 
this movie. I laughed, and I have 
to admit I also did cry .This is 
definitely not a movie for all. But 
for those who can appreciate the 
melodramatic and enjoy a little 
romance thrown in, I would 
strongly recommend it.
I also enjoyed the soundtrack 
throughout the movie; it features 
songs by the Cranberries, Sheryl 
Crow, and Melissa Etheridge.
Boys on the Side opens early 
next month, so check for it in area 
theatres!Java has coffee culture humor
4?
y i
1
W A
COMIC BOOK CHRONICLES
By Jason Andracki
Everybody loves coffee! Well, actually, I pre­
fer tea, but the only cool thing about tea is that 
Earl Grey is Captain Picard’s drink of choice. 
Coffee, on the other hand, has coffeehouses 
and cool nicknames like “Joe” and “Java.” This 
brings me to the substance of this week’s 
column, a comic called Java Town that was 
kindly sent to me by its creator, Scott Saavedra. 
Saavedra’s other credits include the various 
Dr. Radium books and Rats! Outside of comics 
he’s also the creator and former writer of Chip 
‘n’Dale’s Rescue Rangers.
Java Town is the single most unique book 
that has ever crossed my eyes. It’s a comic 
book, yet it leans more towards being a ’zine at 
times. In issue three, there are two seven- 
page- comics plus a few one, or two-pagers and 
then the rest is filled with “Reviews ‘N’ Stuff” 
and perhaps the coolest thing I’ve ever seen, a 
section called “Look What I Found!” Out of all 
the features in this mag, “LWIF!” was the one 
that brought on the most laughs, causing me 
to wake up my roommate. It is basically a few 
pages of ads and articles that Saavedra dug 
out of magazines and books from the first half 
of this century. Example: According to Joseph
H. Greer, M.D., this very paper you’re holding 
causes “Abnormal Sexual Desire,” because “it
leads the mind into channels profoundly low 
and degrading and sows the seed which fills 
the penitentiaries, brothels and the prisons 
to overflowing.” That wasn’t a typo back 
there; I did say “M.D.”
Although the other features in Java Town 
are great, that should not take away from 
the title story. As previously stated, I’m a tea 
drinker, so I naturally got a kick out of 
seeing a Java Town mob attack a stranger
P R E V EN T Sw5q’•_FN9eor mi
©Slave Labor Graphics 
Java Town's humor is as awakening as 
the beverage It represents.
that says, “I’d like a cup of tea, please.” 
Things like this and the more subtle parts of 
Saavedra’s humor, like a beggar with a sign 
that reads “Will Work For Coffee,” are what 
I enjoy most about this book.
Saavedra provides all the writing, art, and
design for this book, and he knows that he’s ^ 
mighty talented with all of it. Not knowing 
much about art aside from what I like, I’d 
have to say Saavedra uses a different ap- ^ 
proach to comics by using chalk in the Java 
Town feature. I don’t know what it is, but it 
looks good. He uses more of a comic strip _ 
style in “Welcome to Manville,” in which he 
shows that he can also draw a mean Monster 
Truck.
In addition to providing a lot of laughs, 
Saavedra gives some fine recommendations 
to other comics, plus magazines and a donut 
shop. Also, he ruined a plan shared by a 
friend and me for a book that was going to 
pay back our college loans; in the Roadside 
section of “Reviews ‘N’ Stuff,” he lists a few 
of the freakier places to be found across our 
great country.
In case you haven’t guessed, I highly rec­
ommend Java Town. Getting ahold of it in 
Pittsburgh is going to be a problem, so get a 
pen and paper in hand. You can write to 
Slave Labor Graphics for a free catalog (it 
has a bunch of Saavedra’s books plus other 
cool ones like Milk & Cheese and Rubber 
Blankett) at 979 South Bascom Avenue, San 
Jose, CA 95128, or call toll free: 1-800-866- 
8929. Just think how cool you’ll look reading 
Java Town in Scotland Yard, or even Arabica, 
if you’re the ritzy type.
Jason Andracki, a sophomore Professional 
Writing major, has amused himself during 
many a history or anthropology lecture by 
imagining the Java Man as a competitor of 
Mr. Coffee. If you’re nice he might let you 
experience the joy of Java Town as long as 
you don’t use it as a coaster, but really, he 
thinks you should buy it yourself.
FUTURE SOUNDS
¡O Import and Domestic 
CD's S. Vinyl for less!
BatesHislsAp sAr
dance, techno, progressive house, 
hi-nrg, trance, ambient, industrial, 
& 80's retro
2141 Ardmore Boulevard 
Suite 2. Second Floor 
Pittsburgh. PA 15221
PHONE: (412) 351-3221
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
.(ctoetsutH) 
9oetsHxA gtoUeut6
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
-ixx RYyPE2JJ
Peace Corps at CMU
Info Session: Thurs, 2/2, 7 PM, Student Center, Rm 206
We need someone to join 6,500 people 
already working in over 90 develop­
ing countries around the world.
To help people help themselves.
The work isn't easy. And it 
takes more than just concern.
It takes motivation. Commit­
ment. But it's a chance to stop 
dreaming about a better world 
and start doing something about it. 
For more info, call 648-7424
M

---------------------------------------------------

Mellon Student Center or by phone at 682-7262. 
Ticket prices are $25, $19,.and $13. Student price 
is $7 with identification.
NOTICES
on February 4 from noon until 5 pm by appoint­
ment. The production span is March 30 to April 
22. Needed are males and females 17 and older. 
Please call 468-3030 for more information or for 
an audition appointment.
This Saturday in DH 2210, Johnny Depp stars in the movie Ed Wood.Touchstone Pictures. All rights reserved.
FILMS
Animal Farm will be playing in Doherty Hall 
2210 on Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Ed Wood will play Friday in Doherty Hall 2210 
at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Forrest Gump will be shown this Saturday at 5, 
7:45,10:30 pm, and 1:15 am in Doherty Hall 22-10.
Plan 9 from Outer Space is playing Sunday in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
nual Israel Film Festival will 
;he monj^ofegebruary. The films 
itJjj^Beehive in Oakland. Six 
¡ened on Sunday to Wednesday 
month.
The men’s basketball team will compete at 
home against New York University on February 
3 at 8 pm and against Brandeis Univemty on 
February 5 at 1 pm.
The women’s basketball teamj fflJ® hosting 
New York University on Febru^fy ^afc/6 pm and 
Brandeis University on February ' |at 3 pm.
The men’s and wo:
will be competing 
Invitational all 
February 4 
tational.
or track team
Morris College, 
>ruary 3 and all day on 
lrginia University Invi-
Hillel’s J e wiB^Jfrnivl
Avenue, atop Cal 
on Fridays with good fool 
times at 6 pm. Call 621-8871 
tion or email hc89.
Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents photo­
graphs of Robert Cumming through March 9 
at the Wood Street Galleries. Hours are Tuesdays 
and Wednesdays 11 am - 6 pm, Thursdays^pnd 
Fridays 11 am - 7 pm and Saturdays noc
Leah Crowley and Colin
performing artists, have teamej 
“Wedding Machine” at the 
February 7-18, inviting t! 
their wedding being perf( 
reception. The exhibi 
high, seven-foot in diai^B^Sieel and fiberglass 
cake. The mechanics, sfepel truss-work, and elec­
tronics of this Weddt^gMachine echo technologi­
cal changes that affected gender roles and marital 
stereotypes in our society.
SPORTS
The WiofTs hockey team will be competing at 
homel/gamst Slippery Rock at Golden Mile on 
February 3atl0:30pm.0n February 4, they will 
be playing at Harmarville against the Pittsburgh 
Stars at 8:30 pm.
RELIGION
Bible Study will be hosted by Tech House 
(Roselawn 15) every Sunday night at 8 pm. All are 
invited. For more information, call 268-2484.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Student 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. Week­
end Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm 
every Sunday in Posner Hall. For more informa­
tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681- 
3181.
[,Jniyersity Center, 4515 Forbes Av- 
flëai SoütTïNÇraig Street), will perform 
St every WecmesSqv at noon and Sunday 
L682^6886 forbore information.
Pittsburgh Early Music Ensemble celebrates 
Valentine’s Day with concerts on February 10 at 
8 pm and February 12 at 3 pm in the J. Laughlin 
Music Center at Chatham College. Joining the 
ensemble will be mezzo soprano Lorie Gratis in a 
program of works by Henry Purcell, Georg Frideric 
and Johann Schmelzer. Ticket prices are $6 for 
students, $8 for seniors, and otherwise $10. For 
more information call 381-9321.
The Collegiate Chorale will hold auditions 
for tenors and basses who love the music of J.S. 
Bach from February 6-11. This chamber choir, 
which performs in the Bach Cantata series at 
Heinz Chapel, will rehearse Wednesday evenings 
on the Oakland campus for six weeks prior to the 
April 2 performance. Call the Director, John Gold­
smith, at 624-4508 to arrange an audition time.
The Renaissance arfcTUaroqki^ Society will 
present The Consort of Musiuo^ with Emma 
Kirkby, on February 4 at 8:00 pnmirfiyCSgjlall, 
125 North Craig Street. As part \f t&ajx Ntfrth 
American tour, these four English musi^nsKvill 
perform “The Purcell Circle” in honoiwf tftk 300th 
anniversary of Henry Purcell’s death. Tickets 3 
available at Classical Tracks, The Ilnitpj-sii* of 
Pittsburgh Student Union Box Office, the Carnegie
The Pittsburgh Association for the Arts in 
Education and Therapy presents on February 
8 at the Allegheny Intermediate Unit of Station 
Square in the Mann Room the Sue Aach-Feldman 
Memorial Lecture: “The Arts as a Path to Whole­
ness.” Lecturer Nancy Van Vuuren will describe 
the Saint Mary’s Lawrenceville Arts Program, a 
community based program established in 1992 to 
reach out to children troubled with substance 
abuse, hopelessness, and violence. The lecture 
will focus on the healing of children based on a 
philosophy of wholeness that requires nurturing 
different aspects of the self. Admission is free for 
PAAET members and $7 for non-meftiTterfi^Reg- 
istration and refreshments are from 7-T 
and the program is from 7:30-9pmyFor infor 
tion call 331-4667.
Iris Rainer Dart, the bestseArg*4ixthl)r of 
Beaches, a 1966 graduate of the CarnS^^esKfellon 
University Drama Department, will be the key­
note speaker at the annual “Slice of Life” lun­
cheon February 18 at the University Center Holi­
day Inn. She will be discussing her new novel 
Show Business Kills. Seating for the luncheon, 
which begins at noon, is limited and available by 
reservation only. For reservations, please call 
268-8451.
Alpha Phi Omega (A Phi O) invites you to go ice 
skating with the Bradley Center at 6 pm on 
January 31. Share an evening with children from 
troubled homes. Meet in the A Phi O office. Bring 
$3 for admittance. On February 1, join A Phi O 
for a Chocoholics Study Break at 7 pm in the 
Donner Reading Room. For more information call 
268-2116.
Steven Kurtz, an artist-theorist, will be lec­
turing on February 9 at 5 pm in DH 2315. He is 
a Carnegie Mellon Art Department faculty mem­
ber, a new genre artist and a founding member of 
the art and theory collective Critical Art En­
semble.
Student Alumni Relations Council presents 
“Career Talk: Strategies to Gain Experience and 
Increase Marketability” on January 31 at 7 pm in 
the Carnegie Conference Room in Warner Hall 
first floor. Please call 268-8451 to reserve a seat or 
for more information.
Humanities and Social Sciences Dean Peter 
Stearns will give a talk on “The Cultural History 
of Dieting” as the inaugural lecture in this 
semester’s Center of Cultural Analysis lectures 
on February 10 at 3:30 pm in Baker Hall room 
235 A. The talk is free and open to all.
Hillel’s Jewish University Center (JUC) pre­
sents “Tough Topics” open classes that tackle 
thorny and sometimes troublesome issues. The 
Wednesday classes are held in the JUC’s lounge' 
from noon until 1:15 pm. On February 1, the 
Rabbi Alvin Berkun will address intermarriage.
Jesus Christ Superstar auditions will be held 
at Apple Hill Playhouse on Manor Road in Delmont
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-de- 
nominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues­
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning Room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431 -4047 for more infor­
mation.
The Fencing Club meets on Sundays (at 2 pm), 
and on Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at 
6:30 pm in the Fencing Club Room (formerly 
Activity Room B) in the main gym. For more 
information, email cd2b, call 862-2899, or sub­
scribe to emu.student.fencing.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursdays at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For more information, email cd2b, call 862- 
2151, or subscribe to assocs.Kenpo_Karate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet­
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, please call 
268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email kl3x or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na­
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See bulletin board 
near the front of Doherty Hall for information on 
upcoming activities.
Carnegie Melloia VegUft piifTrVmeets at 9 pm
on Thursday nightp=gf^H1217. For more infor­
mation, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
Student Environmental Action Coalition
(SEAC) meets every Thursday at 8:30 pm at the 
SEAC office, Student Center 112. If you think 
environmental changes need to be made on cam­
pus, or if you would like to participate in environ­
mental issues on campus and nationally, then 
come andjoin. For more information, please email 
Teresa Leonardo at tl29 or Noemi Barabas at 
ng25.
The CMU Shotokan Karate Club meets on I 
Thursdays at 7:30 pm and Saturdays at 11:30 am 
in Thistle Hall in the gym. Advanced classes meet 
on Tuesdays in Activity Room A in the gym at 6:30 
pm.
The Modem Languages Department invites 
you to join their International Language Tables 
for lunch in the Morewood Food Court. Wednes­
days at 11:30am—12:30 pm there is the Spanish 
table, at 12:30-1:30 pm there is the French table, 
and the Russian table. On Thursdays, join the 
German table at 11:30-12:30, and on Fridays, the 
Japanese table from 12-1 pm.
:ity (J jbnter, 4551 Forbes 
slebrates Shabbat 
friends, and good 
for more informa-
ART
The first annual Juried Alumni Exhibition
hosted by the Forbes Gallery featuring artists 
Martha Jackson, Angela Khaimovich, and Brian 
Dean Richmond, and juried by Martin Prekop, 
Dean of the College of Fine Arts, will be running 
from January 31 - February 11. There will also be 
a reception Friday, February 3, from 7-9 pm.
ARC — Allegheny’s “Expressions” Art Show 
Exhibit will be showing at the Gateway Center 
Complex from February 6 until February 24. The 
exhibit is free to the public and everyone is invited 
to experience original artwork created by people 
with retardation. For more information please 
call 322-6008.
CURIOUS GEORGE
— if this is a Babe Lair where are the BABES?
Zeppelin quote of the week:
“This is the springtime of my loving, the second season I am to know. 
You are the sunlight in my growing, so little warmth I felt before.”
Let’s go Steeeelllll...
oops, I mean Penguins. Woohoo!!!
— Matt
Congratulations to the new sisters of Zeta Psi Sigma!
Becca Albrecht
Robyn Nace
Stef Sicard
Deborah Smithline
Let’s go Zips!!!!!
Ancilla,
Things can only get brighter! And you deserve all the happiness that 
life has to offer. Friends always — JM
Eric S.:
Thanks for discovering the Dynamic Duo! Bring us back a Kangaroo. 
Love ya always and wishing you the best!
Jonmichael & Shannon
Don’t look now, Roula, but you’ve not only survived but you’re ready 
to take on the world without LEAVES. Congratulations!
Amit, Brian, Chintan, Dan & Pete:
You guys are the best even though you may not know it sometimes! 
I’m lucky that I know ya all!
Jessica ... Why??!!
— Shannon & JM
Congratulations to our new initiates and spring pledge class!
— Love, the sisters of Kappa Kappa Gamma.
- Leslie
JM, this is for you. Thank you so much for your help and pa­
tience. Enjoy, this is the first and the last time in my reign as 
Calendar editor.
— Roula
David A.:
It’s been a long and eventful week. ... Just think that better times 
are to come. Thanx for being a great listener and friend to me and 
to the many others.
—Roula
M
> a( *acrexe
once o—
