<lA Ô7WERRY CHRISTMAS cvlND HAPPY NEW YEARj, TO YOU
STUDENT DIRECTORY 
ON SALE 
TODAY
CHRiSTMAS ÔWERYC 
HI STHMAc 
ITvlNDHP j,,j
VOL. XIX No. 13CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1924
COMMISSIONS 
PRESENTED AT 
GEN. ASSEMBLY
15 R.O.T.C. Men Honored by 
Military Department; Stud­
ent Stunts and Talk by Dr. 
Fish Well Received
Sophomore Class’s Ardor Cooled
As It Learns It Has Been Fooled
NEXT MEETING JAN. 13
At the general assembly last Tues­
day, commissions were issued to a 
group of Senior men in the R. O. T. C. 
President Baker presented the com­
missions to the men. He remarked 
that the R. O. T. C. has become one 
of the major department at Carnegie 
and has been doing effective work, 
fcoth for the school and for the coun­
try. Training men for military serv­
ice is becoming an important part of 
the program in every college, and in 
this respect, Carnegie has been “car­
rying on" in a commendable manner. 
The men who received commissions 
have put forth much time and effort 
in this work. This is one pi the more 
material results of their efforts.
The men who received commissions 
are: J. L Knight, Cadet Major;'Li H. 
Harris III, Captain Adjutant; D. C. 
L’Heureux, Milo Matter, J. D. Jarema, 
•Captains; E. C. Tatum, R. F. Riegle- 
meir, W. C. G. Winning, L. C. Hughes, 
8. W. Fishbein, 1st Lieutenants; W. 
A. Welday, H. R. Jones, R. D. Qaylor, 
J. W. McCredie, D. G. Dalton, 2nd 
Lieutenants.
Technical Journal to 
Appear Tomorrow
Second Issue of Year Promis­
es Unusual Material
The second issue of the Technical 
Journal for this year will go on sale 
tomorrow. This edition promises to 
be the most elaborate issue to date. 
Those who are interested in techni­
cal questions which deal with every­
day life are urged to secure a copy 
of this journal and benefit by its con­
tents. Professor Hazelton has written 
an attractive article on the "Neutro- 
<3yne Receiver.”
A special permit was issued by the 
American Radio Club allowing this 
article to be published in this journal. 
It deals with one of the most popular 
questions of today which i3 none other 
than the radio and its public benefi­
cial use. All radio “fans” will find 
this a helpful mdSHtige to further com­
plete their already up-to-date wire­
less sets.
Professor Fettke of Carnegie’s Ge­
ology Department has furnished an 
article dealing with ‘•Oil Shales” 
which relates to the untold value of 
this fluid. 'Students, alumni and 
friends who are pondering over the 
oil business will no doubt find this 
article a great need. Steve Kovack, 
one of Carnegie's popular young suc­
cesses, has presented an article on 
“Floor Reinforcing.” Since the re­
modeling of old buildings is in great­
er demand than ever before, without 
doubt some good points will be dis- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The Plebes have scored their ini­
tial triumph of the year over the 
Sophs! A kind of moral victory, it 
was, however. The older class 
thought that their charges were about 
to hold a banquet Friday night; but 
the affair had not been booked for 
that time. The Plebes can afford to 
laugh despite the fact that their class 
presidents, Hess and Evans, and the 
chairman of - the -banquet; committee 
were captured.and imprisoned; that 
many others were tied up at the dor­
mitories Friday night; and that others 
were considerably inconvenienced.
That the Sophs were sure that there 
was to be a feast was shown by the
| anti-banquet precautions of stowing 
I away the Plebe officers. The Fresh- 
i men helped them along in this belief 
i by casting sly glances at one another 
I in the royal presence, and by letting 
drop suggestive remarks in no low 
tones. In this manner the Sopho­
mores were completely outwitted, and 
they missed an expected free meal.
So another week passes in the 
Plebe-Sopli activities. The Sbphs have 
already held a banquet which was 
successful beyond all desire; the 
Plebes have yet to hold one. The 
Freshman officers however, hold this 
advantage; they have been captured 
twice, and therefor ought to have 
more practice at being elusive.
STUDENT “GUIDE”
ON SALE ALL WEEK
Book is to be of Vest Pocket 
Size; Will Contain Useful 
Information
STUDENT CHAPTER OF
A. I. C. E. MEETS THURSDAY
The Carnegie Student Chapter of 
the American Institute of Chemical 
Egineers will hold a meeting this 
(Thursday) evening at 7:30 in Room 
218 of the Science building.
The present Student Chapter of the 
A. I. C. E. was formerly the Carnegie 
Chemists’ Club All the students in 
Departments of Chemistry and Chemi­
cal Engineering of the College of En­
gineering are urged to attend this 
meeting.
C. H. James, the president of the 
organization, has invited several fac­
ulty members of the Chemistry De­
partment to attend this meeting of the 
A. I. C. E.
All hail to the arrival, of the StU: 
dent directory of Carnegie Tech! For 
some time we have heard discussion 
of such a book, but most of us were 
wont to take it as idle talk. However 
it has actually come to be, and may be 
obtained today for the convenient sum 
of fifty cents.
The Song Book Staff is taking over 
the sales and there will be salesmen 
in each school as well aa the Com­
mons and cafeteria from 11:30 to 1:30 
every day this week. Just a limited 
number of .copies were printed so all 
who wish to be sure of a copy must 
get there early.
A number of remarks have been 
heard concerning the usefulness of 
such a publication. To begin .with the 
little book is of pocket size, three by 
five and one-quarter inches and very 
easy to carry around. As to the con­
tents, it will contain the names of all 
the students, and their present and 
home addresses, teleplioue numbers, 
year of graduation, etc.
One immediate use you all will have 
for it is in addressing your Christ­
mas cards. And certainly it won't 
take you long to figure out a dozen 
or so other uses you as an individual 
will have for it.
The book has been heartily approv­
ed by the Student Council, Dr. Baker, 
and Dean Tarbell, and there is no 
(Continued on Page Three..)
First Performance of 
‘The Fan’ on Tonight
Much Work Connected With 
Production of Play
Almost a complete Italian village 
was built on the Drama Department 
stago in the past week, by the active 
freshmen of that department under 
the leadership of Robert Alderdice 
and Ida Krouse, to whom great credit 
is due, who in turn were under the 
direction of Albertino Sabourin, tech­
nical director, and William Goodridge, 
art director. It was necessary to use 
the full depth of the stage for this 
production, and the full lighting equip­
ment to recreate the sunny sides oi 
this Italian village.
' Especial emphasis is being laid on 
costumes, in connection with which
the freshman girls have done not a
little. The sketches for these cos- ! 
tumes were designed by William 
Adair, a student of the Arts School, i 
Much interest is being shown in “The I 
Fan,” which, opens tonight, and which | 
promises to be an usual production. 
It is under the able direction of Mr. 
Viehman. The cast:
Baron ...................................... Mr. Dickey
Count............................................Mr. Martin
Evaristo ................................ Mr. Marvin
Coronato ................................... Mr. Marye
Crispino ...................................... Mr. Ford
(Continued on Page Three..)
NOTED ENGINEER 
ELECTED TRUSTEE
F. B. Jewett, Vice President 
of Western Electric Co. 
is Selected
Frank Baldwin Jewett, noted elec­
trical engineer and vice president of 
the Western Electric Company, has 
been elected a member of the Com­
mittee of Trustees of Carnegie.
Mr. Jewett was born in Pasadena,, 
Calif., September 5, 1879, and received 
his A. B. degree at Throop Polytech­
nic Institute of that city in 1898. In 
1902 he received the degx*ee of Ph. D. 
at the University of Chicago. For two 
years, 1902 to 1904, he was instructor 
of Physics at M. I. T. Following this 
ho was consecutively transmission en­
gineer, assistant chief engineer, and 
chief engineer for the American Tele­
phone and Telegraph Company. In 
1921 he became vice president of the 
Western Electric Company.
During the war he was a major in 
the Signal Corps of the U. S. Re­
serves. He was also an advisory 
member of the Special Submarine 
Board of the Navy Department and a 
(Continued on Page Three.)
MUSIC AT PROM 
TO BE SUPPLIED 
BYNEWYORKERS
Christmas Carols Are to Feature
Chapel Services This Thursday
Oxley’s Prominent Metropoli­
tan Orchestra Has Agreed 
to Perform at Junior Prom; 
Nearly All Plans Complete
LEVY IS NINE DOLLARS
Heinz Brothers Will 
Play For Arts Ball
Polesie and Halden Working 
Hard on Show
Friday, February 6, 1925, marks the 
annual Arts Ball to bo held as usual 
in the Foyer of the Arts building. The 
renowned Heinz Brothers orchestra 
under the direction of Jan Garbor of 
Victor Record fame, a fascinating mu­
sical comedy by the inimltatable pair, 
I-Ialden and Polesie, and a delightful 
supper—all in an Arabian sotting, will 
doubtlessly make the affair a unani­
mous success. Nino to four—seven 
hours of matchless merriment midst, 
the exotic splendor of oriental set­
tings, music and comedy will long be 
remembered. Olive complexions, gau­
dy tunics, high boots, bulky turbans 
and filmy veils and other fancy rai- 
m'ent will completely replace the cus­
tomary attire.
After dancing beneath vari-colored 
subdued lights for a few flips of the 
hour glass the humerous Polesie and 
the versatile Halden will stage their 
near-east musical comedy. Hahlen’s 
song hits and Polesie’s plot will not 
fail to amuse. Aspirants are now be­
ing chosen for the comedy parts and 
the chorus.
TARTAN STAFF GUEST 
OF SCHENLEY THEATER
Graphica Christmas Cards Ready 
For Distribution in 122 Industries
Most of the- Graphica Christmas 
Cards are now ready for delivery at 
Room 122, Industries Building. Even, 
if Santa does not flnd liis way to In­
dustries, through the Machinery Hall 
chimney, the Graphica Club boys will 
not feel that they have been treated 
badly this year. The Christmas Card 
Campaign, after a very hectic life of 
four weeks’ duration, passed into 
oblivion on Friday, December 12, leav­
ing a goodly heritage to those who so 
valiantly fought for it.
Though the campaign earnings will 
not permit a tour of the European 
printing establishments during spring 
vacation, the Graphica will at least be 
able to pay campaign hills at 100 
cents on the dollar (and provide a few 
of the sensations differentiating Eu­
rope from America). About twelve 
hundred dozen cards were sold, a 
medium between the most optimistic 
and most pessimistic predictions of
last week. Needless to say, it was the j 
optimists who pulled the .campaign | 
over the top. Both of them will be 
taken on the trip.
It is interesting to note the relative 
| popularity of the eight cards offered 
for sale. Carnegie Tech has shown 
itself to be a progressive, up-to-the- 
minute organization. The old bro-; 
mides, the "usual thing,” is simply notj 
being done in the printing depart-; 
nient this week. Drop around some-i 
time. You will find the boys reeling j 
off, dozen after dozen, of styles E, G| 
and H, the unconventional, irrevo­
cably novel designs.
Most of the cards have been printed, I 
and are ready for delivery now. All j 
purchasers who will be so kind as to: 
call for their cards at once, will be 
permitted to place their orders forj 
next year’s cards at this time. The 
cards can be obtained at the Printing 
Department, Room 122, Industries 
Building.
The members of The Tartan Staff 
were guests of the New Sclienley 
Theater, last Wednesday afternoon. 
The feature, "Barbara Frietchie,” was 
founded on the poem of the same 
name, which has been changed to 
make an interesting picture plot. 
There was just enough historical set­
ting to allow for the well-known cli­
max to enter—that o f Barbara
Fritchie unfolding Old Glory as Stone­
wall Jackson passes in triumph. The 
interesting chain of events in the pic­
ture justified all the changes made in 
the plot.
Music was also furnished as a 
special attraction by a pianist, a vio­
linist and a singer. The pianist ren­
dered a concerto on one piano, while 
the other part of the duet was played 
on a recording piano. The violinist 
offered a solo, "A Song Of India,” and 
(Continued on Page Four.)
CITMAS CLUB MEETS AT
DINNER TOMORROW EVE
The Citmas Club will hold a dinner 
meeting tomorrow evening, Wednes­
day, December 17th, at 6:00 p. m., In 
the Ruskiu Apartments, 120 Ruskln 
avenue.
Tickets are on sale by the commit­
tee and at the Y. M. C. A. office. Price 
$1.00.
The committee promises a talk to 
equal Dr. Petty’s excellent speech at 
the last dinner meeting.
After the dinner and speaking there 
will be a short interesting meeting.
The Junior Prom is just six weeks 
away, and, according to indications, 
it is going to be a wonderful success. 
For some time, possibly a month or 
more, the committee in charge of af­
fairs has done everything in its power 
to make the Prom of the class of ’25 
the best of any ever held by Carnegie. 
So far, the results of their efforts have 
been entirely reassuring—the hotel 
has been obtained, the orchestra 
chosen, and the favors selected, leav-j 
ing only minor details to be taken | 
care of.
The most distinguishing feature of 
the Prom will, probably, be the or­
chestra. The last issue of The Tartan 
announced that it would be impos­
sible to obtain either Waring’s Peun- 
sylvanians or Isham Jones' Syncopa 
tors, but the final selection of the 
committee will cause both of these to 
fade into obscurity.
Oxley’s will furnish the music for 
the evening. Perhaps they are not so 
well known in this vicinity, but if so, 
it is because there has been no event 
held about Pittsburgh which could af­
ford an orchestra, of its caliber. Ox­
ley’s is from New York, and has the 
reputation of having played at the re­
ception given to the Prince of Wales 
upon his recent visit there. This, if 
nohting else, Hhould give the impres­
sion that it is an orchestra “par ex­
cellence,” but that is not all; it is one 
of the foremost groups of musicians 
on the Keith Vaudeville Circuit, and 
has played practically overy section of 
the country. After much deliberation, 
their booking agents consented to 
their coming to Pittsburgh for the 
night of the Prom, and tho Carnegie 
Juniors should consider themselves 
fortunate to be able to have the op­
portunity of dancing to their music.
Another consideration which has 
occupied a great doal of the commit­
tee’s time, was tho choice of the fav­
ors, and in this, again, should their of- 
forts he commended. Of course, it is 
not pormittod to toll what they aro, 
but ’ it is quite cortain that none of 
the girls will be disappointed. Bal­
four, from whom thoy are to be ob- 
(Continued on Page Three..)
Christmas enrols and songs will be 
sung Thursday noon at the last chapel 
service before tho holidays. A special 
program has been arranged by Miss 
Keuley of tho Music Department, who 
is training a chorus ot’ music students 
to lead the singing along with the 
Men’s Glee Club and Miss Seaman's 
Bach Cantata Class.
As feature numbers, the Glee Club 
will sing a beautiful old Christmas 
song, "Lo, How a Rose E'er Bloom­
ing”, and tho chorus from the Music 
Department will render “Christ Is, 
Coming”, and "Naught Is So Sweet’’.; 
Everybody will join i n singing | 
“Adestes Fideles”, "The First Noel",! 
"Silent Night”, "God Rest Yo Merry; 
Gentlemen”, and "It Came Upon the \ 
Midnight Clear”.
A1 Johnson will play the organ for!
the carols, and also direct the Gleo 
Club. Dr. Baker is especially interest­
ed in the singing of Yuletlde songs, 
and urges a large attendance. It will 
not only enrich the bettor sense of 
Christmas spirit to come to tills 
chapel, but it will also justify the 
pains that those in charge of the pro­
gram have taken to present this ex 
collent program.
The three feature numbers being 
presented have been carefully re­
hearsed, and it will pay anyone to at­
tend to hear them. The last live 
which are to be sung by all are 
familiar to everybody. Of all chapels, 
it Is hoped that this one will bo ex; 
coptionally well attended. Tho time, 
as usual will be at 12:45 o’clock, 
Thursday.
FIVE GAMES ARB 
DEFINITELY ON 
GRID SCHEDULE
THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
TO BE HELD SOON
Second Shilling Will 
Appear About Feb. 10
Poetry, Stories and a Play to 
be Special Features
The second issue, of The Shilling 
will appear on the campus the 10th 
of February. Poems by Sarah Eliza­
beth Hayes and Alice Moore as well 
as a story by Alice Moore and a short 
sketch by Peg EJckhardt will bo fea­
tured.
Robert Gundeo of the Drama De­
partment has promised to write a 
play and there are hopes of using a 
poem by William Adair, illustrated by 
his own pen. Students in Applied Art 
and Illustration departments are sub­
mitting pencil sketches to Rosslyn 
Doyle the Art Editor, and from them 
will be chosen the cover for the next 
issue.
It is earnestly wished all students 
in the four colleges who have any 
material that they would like to sub­
mit would send it to The Shilling 
office, Margaret Morrison. If the mi 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Thorough Canvass January 
7 to 14; Final Chance to 
Buy Year Book
The After-Christmas Sale of This­
tles will be hold January 7 to 14, 1925. 
The price will not be cut, as is usual 
in after-Christmas sales, because no 
matter what prlco is paid, tho book 
will be worth twico that much. This 
will be absolutely the last chance to 
get tho best book published in 1925.
The usual part-paymont plan will be 
in force during this campaign. For 
$2.50 you can dash off your name on 
the dottod line, tho balance of $2 to 
bo pall when tho book is called for 
next Spring. This is no place for tho 
old gag about getting them whilo 
they aro hot—because they will bo hot 
as long as memory lasts. Romotnbor, 
this Is the last chanoo to ordor ft 
Thistle. Noithor tho hottost line, nor 
the coldest cash will purchase one 
later.
A Tow good salesmen, male or co­
male, can bo added to tho squad now 
bolng coached for tho greatest, and 
(Continued on Page Three..)
Junior Banquet Held 
Last Friday Evening
Varied Program Presented at 
Upperclassman Feast
The Junior Banquet is ovor. It end 
ed last Friday night about nine-thirty 
when all of our Juniors had had 
onough i'oastlng and merry-making, 
and were qulto roady to cease for the 
evening. In general, the banquet w«8 
fairly successful, and tho presidents 
and committee should he commended 
for the well plannod program which 
they arranged. The entortalnors 
were of tho best, tho music was splen­
did, and tho menu, although not sump­
tuous, was sufficient to stifle tho 
pangs' of liugor until the entertain 
ment was ovor.
However, a few Irregularities oc­
curred which slightly marred the 
course of events. It became quite 
evident, as soon as the banquet was 
fairly under way, that the Juniors 
were hilariously intent upon enjoying 
the evening, and together with vol­
leys of hard-crusted rolls and frdqueiit 
outbursts of applause and cheering, 
Professors Beebe and Kirkpatrick 
had a most difficult time trying to 
speak. Then again, two of the danc- 
(Continued on Page Three..)
SAT. NIGHT DANCES 
FAVORED BY DEANS
Meeting of Social Committee 
to Determine Fate of 
Proposed Plan
Pending a conference of the Social 
commlttoo of the Student Council, 
Deans Brown and Tarbell refused to 
give their official sanction to the pro­
posed Saturday night campus dances. 
Personally thoy aro in favor of tho 
projoot, but it was pointed out that 
if this tends to greatly Increase the 
numbor of dances hold during the term 
it will bo rojoctod.
Both Deans aro favorably lmprossod 
with tho plau, in as much as It. would 
keop thoso studonts who attond 
dances in hotel ball rooms or public 
halls, on tho campus. Thoy said that 
at present, thoro are onough recep­
tions in tho school to satisfy oven 
tho most enthusiastic exponents of 
tho "light fantastic.” Thoy fall to see 
why tho numbor should bo augmented. 
The conference with the Social com­
mlttoo luis arranged to determine 
whothor this objection can be an-! 
s wore d,
Tho j/roposltlon as drawn up was [ 
that thoro should be a dance on tho 
campus every Saturday night under 
Student Council direction. It was not 
the purpose of the council to devote 
tho union oxduslvoly to their own 
dances but thoy plannod ' to control 
Jill dances hold. Tho council proposes 
to regulate the prices of .'admission 
when other campus organizations 
hold affairs. The prooooda, however, 
will go to the respective organiza­
tions.
(Continued on Page Two.
Three Open Dates Remain to* 
be Filled; Officials Working-' 
Hard to Complete the List 
With Well Known Teams
PITT GAME HIGH SPOT*
Friendship Drive to 
Start on February 13
European University Students 
Will be Aided
PUPPETS PROM NUMBER 
FEATURES ALUMNI ART
• ADVANCE SAL.E OF PROM *
TICKETS STARTS TODAY *
The Junior Prom preliminary v
• ticket sale starts today. The *!•
• price of the Prom has been de-
• termined by the committee, and *
• will be nine iron men. The first •>
• ticket will sell for $1.50, the sec- *5*
• ond for $2.50 and the remaining
• $5.00 at the door on the eventful <•
' evening. *
The plan of having two ad- *
• vance sales was tried last year, »«•
• and the results warranted its use •!*
• again this year. This first sale
• is really an assessment and every *5*
• Junior and 8'enior should get be- * 
« hind it and help to put it ovei4.
• This plan makos It easier than
• paying It all at once, and besides *
• helps the committee in making *!•
• the affair the biggest and best*
• ever. *2*
> This ticket sale Is in charge
> of Jack Harris, Science; Dike *
• Beede, Industries and Harold
• Wagoner, Arts. When the sales- •Y
• men approach you remember this Jc 
f is your Prom, and its up to you *2*
> to put it over. The sale lasts just *
> this week—four big days. Come *5*
> on Juniors and Seniors—Let's *
!• go! . *
>
*5* ? * ? + ? * ? ? * ? *
The "Prom” number of' the Puppet 
will make its iippearance on the camp­
us about the middle of January. This 
issue promises to be the most artistic 
and most humorous ever published. It 
is to feature the talent of three- of the 
cleverest artists that Carnegie ever 
produced.
Larry Stultz’s cover design is truly 
a work of art, and well worth the 
price of the entire Puppet. Besides, 
whole page illustrations have been 
contributed by Barney Goldstein and 
Dick Beatty. Barney, by the way, 
now runs a popular comic strip for 
a newspaper syndicate. All three of 
these alumni artists have been quite 
successful In their accomplishments 
since their graduation from Carnegie.
The "Prom” number will indeed be 
a rare combination of art and humor. 
So watch for it about the middle of 
January, and just nee what Carnegie 
talent can do.
BENEFIT BRIDGE ON JAN. 10
FOR GAMMA SCHOLARSHIP
The date for the oponlng of Studont 
Friendship Drive has been sot for 
January 13, 1925. A special sporiker, 
who will toll of the purpose of the 
Student Friendship Drive, will be se­
cured l'or the general assembly, which 
will be held on January 1.".. Just who 
Ihls speaker will be has not been de­
cided, but lie' will be a man of national 
Importance.
The Toknon Club is handling the 
Student Friendship Drive again this 
year. Johnny Carr, who Is In charge 
of the Drive, is appointing a commit­
tee to work with him. A general 
chairman will be appointed for each 
school, who will have charge of the 
campaign in his own school.
The purpose of the Student Friend­
ship Drive is to obtain money to aid 
the poverty-stricken students of Eu­
ropean universities. Since the war 
the students of Europe have continued 
their studies under extreme difficul­
ties. Many 'of them are so destitute 
as to be in urgent need of food and 
clothing. It is hard for us to realize 
this state of affairs, but it is a fact. 
And surely we can all contribute 
something, however small an amount 
it may be, to such a worthy cause.
Watch The Tartan for further an­
nouncements concerning the Student 
Friendship Drive.
Five football games have already 
been definitely arranged for the sea­
son of 1925, according to announce­
ment from the Graduate Manager'a- 
office this week. They are with Thiel,, 
W. & J., Pitt, Notre Damo and Le^., 
high. Three other games are pending: 
and will be announced as soon as> 
they have been definitely * scheduled- 
The opening game will bo on October 
3 against Thiel.
The authorities in charge of Car­
negie Tech athletics havo had a ser­
ious problem to face each year in ais 
ranging a football schedule. In year» 
gone by the Tartans mot such teams 
at Allegheny, Westminster, Botliany 
and other Tri-Stato teams in what waa 
considered the big games of the sea­
son for Carnegie. For several yoarg, 
however, the Skibos have been play­
ing Class A football and mooting soma 
ot’ tho strongest teams In tho country.. 
Necossarlly,, tho schedule has been, 
changing each yoar for tho past fevr 
years. It has come to the point where 
only such teams as Pitt, Notre Dame, 
Wash-Jeff and Thiel aro considered 
(Continued on Pago Four)
Kilties Are Promised 
Big Concert Season
Growing Popularity of Band 
Proves Drawing Card
The ond of tho football soasou waa- 
accompanied by no let-down in tlio 
activities of tho Klltlo Hand. On the- 
contrary, it has started it« concert 
Hoason, during which It will play for 
various organizations.
Tho inauguration of the Band's eou>- 
cert season wan last Thurmlay eve­
ning, December 11, when It entertain­
ed at tho Orphan's Home, Crnfton. 
The iinusic that It rendered was 
greatly appreciated, and tho Klltleir 
wore rewarded with a delicious veni­
son dinner,
Sunday afternoon, December 14, tlia 
band gave a concert for the Imitates, 
of the Western Penitentiary.
'Phis Thursday (December 1H) eve­
ning the band will Journey to May- 
vlew to deliver a concert. At the- 
close of the concert refreshments will 
be served and our Kilties will bo en­
tertained by the nurses.
The baud is planning a concert tour 
pastor wepk, It will ho given under 
tho auspices of the various Carnegie 
Clans from hero to Now York.
All Indications point to a busy sea- 
son for the Klltlo Hand, in fact, it 
will undoubtedly be tho biggest and 
most successful soason that tho or­
ganization has ever enjoyed since tho 
Klltlos are becoming famous us one' 
of the best college bands in the couu- 
try.
There are a few vacancies, in ‘ the 
Band at present. Anyone wishing to 
come out for it, see Dave Garber or 
come 'to the rehearsals on Tuesday 
and {Thursday nights In the Union.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB GIVING
XMAS PARTY AT HEINZ HOUSE
The Iiltercolleglate Cosmopolitan 
Club will close its activity for the 
year with a Christmas Party at the- 
Heinz House on December 19 at S 
p. m.
Tills wiil be the best of all the so­
cials that the club has ever given. 
The committee, on severe cross-ex­
amination, gave out that there would 
be no speaker nor deep discussion, 
but dances, music and jokes will fill 
the evening. A fine orchestra will be 
playing while the dancers go round 
and round the floor, oblivious to the 
environment. In short, a whole eve­
ning of ripping good time and merri­
ment. Each member is requested to 
bring in with him a present, not 
worth over 10 cents/
Cross Word Puzzle Contributors
Requested to Use Standard Forms
A bridge will be held In the Mar­
garet Morrison Recreation Hall on 
Saturday afternoon, January the 10th 
from 2:80 to 5:30 p. rn. for the bene 
fit of the Gamma Gamma Gamma 
Scholarship Fund. Tickets will be 
put on sale this week in Arts School 
and Margaret Morrison and will be 
less than a dollar a person. A large 
turnout is expected because the bridge 
is being held on the campu3 and the 
price Is so low.
The Cross-Word Puzzle Section ofi 
The Tartan, inaugurated last week, 
has mot with unusually favorable at­
tention which warrants its continu­
ance, Numerous lncjuiriOB have been 
received by the editors in regard to 
contributions.
All contributions are welcome, since 
a puzzle will be needed each week to 
Insure the survival of tho department. 
The editors request, howover, that all 
puzzles submitted be made to con­
form with one of several dosigns, 
diagrams of which may be secured at 
The Tartan office.
This restriction is necessary, be­
cause the expense of making new and 
unstandardized designs would be pro­
hibitive. The printers of The Tartan 
have placed a number of standard
forms at its disposal, and' anyon» 
wishing to contribute to the depart­
ment is requested to leave his name 
and address, care of Tho Tartan, C. I. 
T. Post Office, or to communicate 
with J. I-', Crlstoff to obtain diagrams. 
Then all that is necessary Is to make 
tho brain-tickler conform to the stand­
ard plan.
The life of the department will roly 
entirely upon the interest with which, 
the puzzles aro received, and upon tho 
number of twisters submitted. Puz­
zles made up of terms pertaining to 
the school are most desired, together 
j with novel and unusual combinations.
| Prospective contributors are request- 
j ed to work the puzzles each, so as to- 
avoid repetition or hackneyed words,, 
as much as possible.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO’’HE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 16. 1924
Ä (JiwnBgif Rattan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Two More Institutes 
To Be Held Next Year
week in the '¡¡Amundsen to Lecture 
_____WORLD’S news 11 At Music Hall Friday
Entered in thePostoffice .of Pittsburgh as second-classmatter.
JFRED C. SMITH..
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
F. D. ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
A. E. KROGHE. C. FRAZIER
L. H. Harris
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. F. Carson R. R. SitzlerD. A. Gardner j
FRED T. PHELPS
MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITORS
V. B. SMITH..............Franklin 5547-J
'J M. GOSS..............
ALUMNI EDITOR...Schenley 91S0
Planned For Plumbers and 
Tile Manufacturers
REPORTERS
7 At L. Lepper. M. Hollinshead. M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge. M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella, M. Cohen. S. Weil, F. :L. Grant, E. 
.Ross, H. L. Myers. L. V. Twohig, F. Finn, .Wingold Kelly, F. A. Kold.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF.Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris. .1. A. C. Foller. McWilliams. D. M. Davidson. 
William Bernardi, B. Kristof.
~ BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON.....................................................................................................Sclienley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
N. C. WESER .....................................................................................................Sclienley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
D. MOSKOVITZ ..................................................................................................Hazel 28i.-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J W Metro. A. Groilner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander. J. L. Bauerle. J. P. 
Strizak. Lois Snyder, A. Perreton. G. H. Carl. B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. 
Kaildell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore. R. L. Gribble._______________________________
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy ot this paper; the 
Managing Editor tor the make up. ____________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items mUBt be in the s'-jdent
post office before 4:30 Thursday^_________________________________________________
Tartan Office—Room 5-A, Industries Buildtng. Office hours—Daily 12-30- 
3:20. _____________________________________________________________
CRITICISM
Among other* t iiinprs, tvlnit ^ve need on this Campus is a couple 
of first rate critics. We have plenty of knockers, but very few of 
those gifted individuals who can really criticize. There s a differ­
ence. There are lots of things wrong around the school: we all know 
that. Now the normal reaction whenever one runs up against any­
thin"- that is not perfect is to stand on th/s hind legs and moan to 
]iigh°heaven that things are terrible; those in power on the Campus 
are a bunch of grafters, and that the morality of the school and the 
"whole scheme of things is going to the dogs. Then a few individuals 
who are at least trying to do something, are chosen, and their repu­
tation is picked to’pieccs; even their family tree is examined. The 
knockers send a letter to the, Tartan, giving us two days to rebuild 
the Campus into a modern Utopia, and then start all over again when 
no startling changes arc made.
They are knockers ; there are lots of them.
Sometimes a man, seeing one of the faults of the system, Mill 
go home and wonder about it; why it is necessary; if not, who is 
responsible. lie will talk to someone oil the Counfil who should 
know something about it in a pleasant way. After learning what is 
the matter and why, he will go home and think it over for a lew 
days and get an idea on how to remedy the tiling. Then lie will 
talk over his idea with the council member, or someone on the Tartan 
staff, and if it is good, some attempt will be made to put it into 
practice. Perhaps it will work.
That man is a real critic. That’s the way all the good things in 
our system were worked out.
AVe need many, many more critics.
THE THISTLE
There is a new constitution for the Thistle under consideration. 
The main change is that the positions on the staff would be made 
competative instead of elective. This is a good idoa.
As things stand now, the elections are usually made on the basis 
of personal popularity, no attention being paid to the individual’s 
particular qualifications for a job on a publication.
Work 011 the Thistle staff, while not pressing, nevertheless de­
mands good judgment and real ability along journalistic lines. The 
fact that the book will probably be kept for years by all who buy it 
makes it imperative that the literary style and the typography be, ot, 
the best, since it will be subjected to critical scrutiny over a long 
period of time. .The first requisite to good work is interest. Many ot those 
elected to the board may be lacking in this; they must carry out 
their duties because they are elected, but their heart is not in it. 
This leads to slovenly work.
Then too, the men getting the jobs will be those who worked the 
hardest durin«- the previous year, and incidentally those showing 
the most ability. To our mind this new system of competative posi­
tions will serve to eliminate the faults enumerated above and will, 
in the Ion-- run, serve to make the Thistle a better publication. _ _
IN OUR LETTER BOX
A VIEW
Anyone who has read the Fall Shill­
ing cannot afford to be anything if 
-not critical. Reading its creations or 
its reflections, makes little difference, 
for either makes the reader dubious 
and perhaps discouraged. The hope 
which lie may have nourished that he 
was in for a “flow of the soul” having 
ieard that he* was reading the liter­
ature of the campus, is effectively 
blasted. The high purpose of the 
charters, seem without expression. 
The reader, when he has turned the 
last page, will say to himself, “If 
that's the literary magazine of the 
-Carnegie Campus, a beautiful tribute 
to its past would be to let is rest in 
peace."
There is a sameness about the Shill­
ing. It .is certainly not treacherous. 
Itepeated issues have a facial expres­
sion that breeds familiarity, and a 
depth that takes on appropriateness. 
Maybe one should not expect more 
than two poems, two essays, two short 
stories; maybe one should not ask 
lor more than conventionality; may- 
1>e one ought to feel satisfied with the 
¦usual, the accepted, the-what-has-been- 
tried-successfully. After all posing 
and self-deception about the things in 
life that matter, do not make for liter­
ature, but do expose imature penetra­
tion. Dozens of issues are enough of 
this.
Individual selections, however, are 
not so insecure in maintaining the 
expression of the liberal, the artistic, 
the cultured In thought, although they 
are rather tired from long standing. 
Any, even the wholly unskilled critic, 
would like and appreciate “Incense” 
for its fanciful and colorful emagery, 
and “A Dollar a Day” for its realistic 
.flavor. Others are either modest in­
articulations of personality and in­
dividuality, still others are offensively 
repetitions or robustly glorifying.
j posed of contributions and advertise- 
! ments. What has the editorial staff 
presented? Very little. Perhaps a 
little more enthusiastic industry and 
intellectual enterprise on the part of 
those responsible for the Shilling 
would improve its tone.
GRADUATE OF LEHIGH UNI.
ADDRESSES CHAPTER A. S. C.E.
In talking over the matter with Di­
rector Connelly, regarding the recent 
three-day institute, for the plumbing 
and heaUng industry, he said that the 
success of that institute is making 
others say. what Mr. Carnegie many 
years ago had thought out. that now 
is the time to bring technical training 
to the very doors of the industries. 
Mr. Carnegie said that the Americans 
have heard much, and have made 
much of the self-made man. and he is 
almost accepted as an institution in 
this country. He is lauded to the 
skies by the various communities of 
the country, and in many cases he is 
prone to admit it.
In a recent magazine article, Mr. 
Richard’ Walsh struck the keynote, 
that within a decade or two, the self- 
made man who is now in the indus­
tries and financial world as a general 
mauager, will be thrust away; by the 
law of competition, and that, one by 
one. those who have learned to man­
age their men by slow and costly 
methods, and mistakes, will yield 
their desks to executives who have 
been professionally trained.
The business world is making a 
place for young men who are going 
out from our educational institutions, 
trained to take their places as engi­
neers and industry leaders, as well as 
men in the field of finance and com­
merce. Great executives have been 
quick to recognize the value of young 
men and their training, which they 
themselves have received only through 
experience.
Following out this thought, George 
E. Baker, one of New England's great 
bankers, gave to Harvard $5,000.000 
for the School of Business Adminis­
tration. Knowing this, and knowing 
that Mr. Carnegie thought of it years 
ago, long before he died, we are try­
ing to have the people understand 
that the Carnegie Institute of Tech- 
noloby can give to those in the in­
dustries. in a practical way, some 
scientific knowledge which will help 
them advance in their professions.
A three-day institute for the air re­
duction. which is so badly needed and 
so greatly misunderstood in the indus­
tries. is now being arranged. Through 
the National Terra Cotta Society a 
three-day institute for the tile manu­
facturers will be held. This will deal 
with the manufacture of tile, its color­
ing, and the scientific progress 
through which it goes.
In February, it is planned to have 
a two-week intensive course to train 
men to teach plumbing. This, prob­
ably, is the first co-operative plan that 
has been worked out between the 
University of- Pittsburgh, the National 
Trade Extension Bureau, and Car­
negie.
What She Wanted.
At the post office a little girl de­
posited a dime In front of the clerk 
and said: “Please, I forgot the name 
of the stamp mamma told me to get, 
, , .. * but It’s the kind that makes a letterThe most casual observation would! hurry CJ)..._EoJion Transcript, 
•-indicate that the publication is com-
It is unusual for an engineering 
course to be considered as training 
for a career in business, but Mr. A. V 
Spinoza, a graduate of Lehigh Univer­
sity, now vice president and general 
manager of sales, Consolidated Ex 
panded Metals Company, Pittsburgh, 
Pa., convinced the members of the 
Student Chapter, A. S. C. E., in an ad 
dress given Wednesday, December 3: 
that such a course offers the best 
kind of training for a man who is go 
ing into business.
In the course of his talk on “The 
Engineer in Business," Mr. Spinoza 
regretted the view taken by many 
people, i. e., that an engineer must 
stay in technical work, and cited 
cases of many successful business 
men who began careers as engineers.
He stated that although 90 per cent 
of all new projects in business fail, 
the vast majority fail because of neg­
lect of the fundamental precepts or 
principles, chief of which are service, 
fairness towards employes and fair­
ness to stockholders'. The qualifica­
tions necessary for advancement were 
given as loyalty, fairness, honesty, 
good conduct, health and ability to 
handle the English language.
In concluding his remarks, the 
speaker dwelt briefly on the sacri­
fices that an engineer must make, 
especially if he dislikes traveling, 
and mentioned a few of the pleasant 
aspects of engineering.
Secretary Hughes has officially an­
nounced the acceptance by the Amer­
ican government of the invitation 
from the League of Nations to parti­
cipate in the proposed International 
Conference on Traffic in Arms. Muni­
tions and Implements of Wav. to be1 
held in Geneva in April or May 1925.
He says in part, "In reply I take 
pleasure in referring to the communi­
cation addressed to you on August 
29. in which it was stated that my 
government would be disposed to give 
favorable consideration to an invita­
tion to participate in an appropriate 
international conference of the pow­
ers for the aforementioned purpose. 
My government still holds this atti­
tude. and is agreeable to the sug­
gestion that the time of holding the 
conference should be April or May, 
1925."
Despite the fact that America has 
held off so long, and refuses to play 
her part in world'affairs, we welcome 
any signs that she is gradually real­
izing that it is impossible to hold 
off and yet be a member of the familv 
of nations. This just one more sign 
of the United States entering into 
European affairs.
Along with the general betterment 
of business conditions the news was 
joyfully received by newspapers and 
people interested of file 50G.699 tou 
increase of unfilled orders of the Uni­
ted States Steel Corporation over the 
preceding month, 4.03l,9G9 tons Nov­
ember 30, as contrasted with 3,525, 
270 tons October 31. These signs of 
reviving business prosperity give the 
optimistic Judge Gary the opportunity 
to sentimentalize on the excellent 
times we are in for, never seeming 
to reckon with the European compe­
tition that is bound to hit us shortly, 
and to dull the edge of this expanse 
of trade:
Dr. Baker Asked to Introduce 
the Famous Explorer
Dr. Baker has been asked to intro­
duce Captain Roald Amundsen, the 
famous explorer, on (he occasion of 
his giving a lecture at the Carnegie 
Music Hall next Friday evening-, De­
cember the 19th. His lecture will be 
on “The Circumnavigation of the Polar 
Basin” and will be illustrated with 
colored stereopticou views.
Captain Amumlsen, wlio is consider­
ed the greatest living explorer, is in 
physique and spirit a modern Viking. 
As a native of Norway he was early 
accustomed to living amid ice and 
suow, and although’a graduate of the 
University of Christiana his love oí 
adventure and the sea drew him to a 
seafaring life. From 1897-IS99 he was 
in the Antarctic. In 1901-2 he investi­
gated ice navigation and niado deep 
sea soundings around Spizbergen and 
Greenland.
He spent two years in King Wil­
liams’s Land aud relocated the North 
j Magnetic Pole. After thrilling experi­
ences he succeeded in getting through 
the Northwest Passage and was the 
first explorer who sailed around the 
north coast of America. In 1911 ho 
turned his attention again to the Ant­
arctic and after enduring great perils 
aud hardship, the /temperature for 
five months ranging from (50 to 73 
degrees below zero, planted the Nor­
wegian flag aL the South Pole. A few 
years later he was trying to drift his 
ship over the North Pole. Owing to 
various mishaps he has not been able 
to accomplish this. He is now plan­
ning to cross the North Pole 'in an 
airplane next July.
TRUE LOVE
Captain Steidle Dis­
cusses Rock Dusting
Presents Paper at Coal Min­
ing Institute of America
At the annual meeting of the Coal 
Mining Institute of America, hold at 
the Chamber of Commerce Auditor­
ium. on Decembor 4-5. Capt. Edward 
S. Steidle, supervisor, Co-operative 
Mining Course, was one of the four 
speakers, who placed before the Coal 
Mine Operators and Mining Engineers 
of. the country, important coal mining 
problems that require the closest at­
tention and co-operation of the mine 
officials.
He spoke at length on "Rock Dust-! 
ing as a preventive against mine ex­
plosions." which exact as their toll, 
scores of human lives every year. Be­
ginning with the history of the use of 
rock dust as a safety measure, he dis­
cussed at full length, its gradual de­
velopment into a compulsory law in 
caseous mines here and in Europe. 
He placed before the attention of the 
mining public, clearly and forcibly, as 
to how this can best be adapted for 
use in the mines to give maximum 
service and efficiency.
This method of rock dusting as a 
preventive and safety measure 
against possible mine explosions is 
very recent in its origin, and as such 
has not received the close attention 
that it so well deserves. The method 
has been well tried out, and the prac­
tical experimental results are so con­
vincing in their efficiency that it is 
now made a law for the gaseous 
mines.
Capt. Steidle, who had been work­
ing on this paper for quite some time, 
has given a great momentum to the 
feeble trumpet note of warning that 
had been rising for some time, by 
placing facts and figures in a concise 
but exhaustive manner.
I am positive, my dear.
You cannot question my devotion; 
iVly love for you is greater than the 
great Atlantic Ocean.
And as ample as the spacious atmos­
phere.
I love you when you’re talking,
When you’re sleeping, when you’re 
walking.
And. in fact, it’s my contention.
In quite any other form that one may 
mention.
Most of all, however,
Ts my love for you unbroken,
When you’re quoting something 
clever
I have previously spoken;
When you are thus ennobled, there 
emanates from me 
A love as high as Hoaven, as bound­
less as the sea!
My dear, that you have beaufy 
Cannot be controverted;
My position on tiie subject, has been 
frequently asserted.
So, you see, T do not say it out of 
dfity.
In appearance, form tin| movement,
I can think of no Improvement,
And, in fact, upon inspection 
One must.own that you approximate 
perfection.
And yet. more than over,
Are you fair, and am . I smitten, 
When you’re quoting something 
clever
I have previously written.
When you are thus transllgured, you 
seem to me by far 
More stately than a Venus, more radi­
ant than a star!
—Temple Univorsity Daily.
j An exhibition of American Indus- 
i trial Art was opened at the Carnegie 
: institute, yesterday, and will continue 
j through January IS. It. will be under 
I the joint auspices of the .Department 
j of Fine Arts and the Museum, after 
| the manner of the very successful 
I Garden Show, held at the Institute 
about two years ago.
In the exhibition there will bo rep­
resented current work of many Ameri­
can manufacturers, assembled with 
the idea of demonstrating the prog­
ress of designers in artistic manufac- 
I tures in the United States. Alt the 
objects in the exhibition have been 
designed and executed in this country 
within the last two or three years. 
The exhibition will follow the plan 
of the American Industrial Art Show 
at the Metropolitan Museum.
Because of the limited space at the 
Institute it will not be possible to 
show a great number of objects, but 
a sufficient .number have been selected 
to demonstrate the artistic ability to 
produce in this country objects of ap­
plied art of high type, especially on 
the basis of "quantity production," 
which is the only basis calculated to 
meet the requirements of current life.
The exhibition will consist of glass­
ware. pottery, furniture, jewelry, 
laceS and embroideries, metalwork, 
hardware, lighting fixtures, rugs, sil­
ver and goldsmiths' work, tapestries, 
textiles, leaded glass and wall-paper.
This exhibition will be of particular 
interest to manufacturers, designers, 
salesmen, craftsmen, artisans, teach­
ers. homemakers and others practi­
cally engaged or actively interested 
in the industrial art.
CITMAS CLUB WILL DINE AT
THE RUSKIN APARTMENTS
Musical Clubs Will 
Rest During Holidays
Faithful Musikers to Break 
Training- Temporarily
SENIOR PRESENTS THESIS AT 
MEETING OF CARNEGIE A. I. E. E.
Mr. J. M. Kelly, senior electrical 
student, presented his senior thesis 
before the Caruegio Tech branch of 
the A. I. E. E. on Decembor 3, 1924. 
The subject of Mr. Kelly’s thesis was 
"Tho Construction Features of the 
C. M. and St. P. Electric Locomotive." 
Lantern slides of the construction of 
the locomotive and of the locomotive 
in practice were shown and explained! 
Tho lecture was very interesting and 
was highly instructive.
It is extremely rogretable that more 
student's do not take advantage of the 
opportunity to hear the lectures given 
at fho A. I. E. E. meetings. The sub­
jects of the lectures are always per­
tinent to electrical students.
Come to our January mooting!
The Citmns Club will dine at the 
Ruskiji Apartments. Wednesday, De­
cember 17, at 6 p. m.
I A short, interesting meeting will 
I follow, including speakers, and dis- 
I cussion of a number of interesting 
questions.
Tickets will bo on sale this week. 
Price, $i.
All C. I. T. Master Masons are urg­
ed to be with us.
FIFTH MEMBER ADDED
TO TRUSTEES COMM.
Telling Age of Mistletoe.
It Is a comparatively easy matter to 
learn the ago of growing mistletoe, as 
each slioot sends off two new shoots 
each year, and by counting the joints 
from the root to the tip of any branch 
the number of years the mistletoe has 
lived nuiv !><• fotnnutpd easily
Frank B. .Towott, eminent electrical 
englnoor and vieo president of tho 
Western Electric Company, has been 
elected as a member of tho Committee 
of Trustees of tho Carnoglo Instituto 
of Technology, according to an an­
nouncement. Ills homo is in New 
York City.
Mr. .Towott. Is tho fifth now member 
addod to the Commlttoo of TrustooB 
of the local institution this year. 
Other now members aro Charles M. 
Schwab, Otto Kahn of Now York, E. 
M. 1-Ierr, prosldont of the Westing- 
houso Eloctric & Manufacturing Com­
pany, and J. C. Nobbs, an alumnus, of 
Painosvlilo, O.
The Psalms an Lyric».
Not in their divine argumento alone, 
but In the ver.v critical art of com­
position, tho Psalms may be easily 
made to appear over all kinds of lyric 
poetry Incomparable.—Milton,
SAT. NIGHT DANCES
FAVORED BY DEANS
(Continued From Pngo One.)
Tho Saturday night campus dances 
will bo similar to tho football dances. 
The «council was Impressed by the 
popularity of these affairs, and with 
this as an Incentive they proposed 
this new arrangement..
If tho plan meets with the approval 
of the Doans It. will go Into offoot after 
the Christmas holidays. There will 
be no danco next Saturday because 
of tho "general exodus*' for the Yule* 
tide vacation.
Last Sunday the Musical Clubs lielu 
the final rehearsal before the Annual? 
Christmas Holidays, and the- work 
was suspended gladly. Director John­
son has been running tho men rag­
ged recently, due to tho fact that they 
had to sing at the Chapel Services- 
last Thursday, and that the work- 
must be perfdet, under, penalty, of 
death to tho men in the organizatlon. 
That being that, and all other things; 
being equal, there will be no rehearsal 
next Sunday.
Manager Lundquist gathered the- 
members of tho Faculty of the Musi­
cal Clubs in his car, after tho re­
hearsal, along with tho aid of Presi­
dent Stimmlor and tlio Leo Six, ana 
tho aforesaid members of the staff so­
journed to Wilkinsburg to have their 
pictures taken for Tho Thistle aud the 
Pittsburgh newspapers—Buffalo and' 
Cleveland papers, please copy—-and7 
Mr. McClay said that ho would assure- 
them of a good job. notwithstanding, 
the material he had to take.
Next semester the plan is to have- 
several extended trips and a trl-col- 
legiate concert, and that means that 
there must be .more men who are- 
willing to sing with the organization - 
Accordingly, there wilt be need of now 
material, and any men on tho campus- 
who would sing, are urged to see Di­
rector Johnson, Manager Lundquist.- 
or any mnmber of the clubs and- sig­
nify their intentions of the same- 
That means that the rush of new ma­
terial will be met by a force of ex­
aminers next semester, and the clubs-- 
will re-open work with a blah.
The Mandolin Club is going strongr 
and / went big at the last concert- 
Thoir quota is by no means filled, and' 
there will be room for any stringer?: 
who may care to string. See DLrector 
Kovack.
Merry Christmas!
Only One Standard.
Wo have no right to demand fron» 
other people a standard of honor 
whlo'a we are not prepared to concede 
ourselves.
mmmttmnmjmtmm
THE LITTLE IMPS
DANCE ORCHESTRA 
Collegiate Imps Second Band 
Slx-plece Combination.
Get your dates early.
H. L. SPHAR, Manager 
Little Imps Sohenloy 9211
E. F. MILLER, Manager 
Coll. Imps Hiland 9544 ¦
Bamboo*a Short Life
Most species of bamboo live for 
from four fo thirty years, bear a sin­
gle crop of seeds at the end of that 
time, and then die back to the roots.
Dr. Fish Lectures on
Animal Life in Africa
Dr. Fish of the University of Pitts­
burgh gave a lecture, illustrated by 
slides and moving pictures, telling of 
the experiences of a group of natur­
alists while in British Guiana during 
last summer. They spent the entire 
summer in the wilds of Guiana study­
ing nature and collecting specimens. 
The pictures showed the manner in 
which these wild animals were cap­
tured and studied. The lecture was 
very interesting and instructive.
Herb Polesie’s clever impersonation 
of a boy scout and his realistic mon­
ologue concerning scouting made a 
decided hit with the audience. Hardy 
Albright and Verner Halden present­
ed a unique little skit.
A few numbers by Vern Olsen’s or­
chestra concluded the program.
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Acacia—G30 Clyde Street ...............................w..............................Ililand 9380
Alpha Tau Omega—254 Bellefield Street..................................Schonley 9102
.Beta Sigma Rho—213G Wightman Street........................................Hazel 9310
Beta Theta Pi—5549 Forbes Street......................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Rho—14Q8 Wightman Street.............................................Hazel 9494
Delta Mu—1(155 Shady Avenue...............................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta—35G North Craig Street...........................Schenley 0721-J
Delta Tau Delta—50G4 Forbes Street........................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon—4812 Baum Boulevard........................................Schenley 919G
Iota Sigma Delta—5601 Wilkins Avenue........................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon—4732 Center Avenue........................................Schenley ---------
Kappa Sigma—024 Clyde Street.........................................................Hiland 9544
Kappa Sigma Rho—444 Amberson....................................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha—4807 Baum Boulevard...............................Schenley 9285
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—4915 Forbes Street.........................—Schenley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi—4929 Forbes Street....................................Schenley 9122
Sigma Nu—4921 Forbes Street......................................................Schenley 0G59
Theta Xi—5017 Forbes Street..........................................................Schenley 9143
Woodlawn Club—5814 Forbes Street.................................................Hazel 9422
Who’s Who in Industries
Student Senate.
M. D. Kalfelz, President, 4807 Baum Boulevard.................................Schenley 9285
A. S. Andrews, Vice President, 920 St. James Street........................Montrose 4799
D. V. Beede, Treasurer, 624 Clyde Street.......................................................Hiland 9544
F. S. Taber, Secretary, 209 South Neville Street...........................Schenley 2253-J
D. K. Mims, Senior Class Representative, 624 Clyde St........................Hiland 9544
R. W. Bankier, Sr., Class Representative, 4034 Windsor......................Hazel 3868
J. W. Goss, Jr., Class Representative, Henderson Hall...................Schenley 9180
Athletic Council Representative.
H. E. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street.................................................................Hiland 9544
Senior Class Officers.
A. E. Mellor, President, 630 Clyde Street.................................................Ililand 9380
G. H. Carl, Vice President, 203 Boquet Street...............................Schenley 0393-M
M. Donahue, secretary, 254 Bellefield Street......................................Schenley 0102
K. C. Kornman, Treasurer, 220 Main Street.....................................Fink 21.75-W
Junior ClaaC Officers.
R. Rowley, President, 417 S. Dithridge Street....................
J. F. Christoff, Vice President. 4807 Baum Boulevard...
G. W. Sanner, Secretary, 417 South Dithridge Street.........
R. L. Coulter, Treasurer, 417 South Dithridge Street-------
Sophomore Class Officers.
S. Forbes, President, G24 Clyde Street...................................
C. J. Udd, Vice President, Henderson Hall...........................
N. P. Mitchell, Treasurer, 254 Bellefield Avenue..................
A. E. Dodge, Secretary, 2822 Baum Boulevard....................
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aveu.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young People’» Mooting, 6:80 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avonuo
Sunday, II A. M. and 8 P. M. . 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dithridge and Bayard Strectu 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pnotor.
Blblo Class ...............................il:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 
League of Youth at 0:30 P. M.
.Schenley 0877-U 
...Schenley 9285 
.Schenley 0877-R . 
.Schantoy 0877-U
.........Hiland 9544
...Schenley 91.80 
—Schenley 9102 
...Schenley 9691
Dally Thought.
Tls strange what a man may do and 
a woman still think him an angel.— j 
Thackeray. j
Freshmen Class Officers.
J. Hess," President, 4921 Forbes Street.......................................................Schenley 0G59
H. Grosskloss, Vice President, 4921 Forbes Street.............................Schenley 0659
C. F. McClelland!. Treasurer, 4807 Baum Boulevard...........................Schenley 9285
J. L. Davidson, Secretary, 254 Bellefield Avenue...........Schenley 9102
The Class Endowment
cAnd How It Can Be Done Through Life Insurance
T
HE JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
worked out thin problem for the 1923 urnduntlni: r.lnta of the Munachiuctu 
liutltutc of Technology. and In reiitly to do It for othero.
Mimy graduating clnweii, wbhltfl to benefit their Alinn Mntcr have turned 
to the Iniuruncc Idea ilncc It allow* the participation of a lurKc number of 
itudcnu
Tills plan provide« for the payment of n certain »peclfied sum to the Unlver» 
iltv lit the pnd of 20 or 25 year*, the member* of the graduat inn clan paying a 
nominal ium each year to creatc an endowment. In enoc of the death of u 
graduate Ijefote the endowment matured Ills full abate la paid Into the bind.
Every ntudent 1.1 Riven it chance to put hla John Hancock on the doited 
line ond become a continuing contributor to the future welfnre of his Alum 
Mater. It hnu been nucccnifully carrlcd through In a number of cases, atid It 
can be done with your institution.
r The John Hancock organization will hr.p.lail to tender any 
service It can to colleiie clauci awl Individual!; also 
to Interest ambitious college m<n in life insurance work.
FOR rNTOItMATION ADDRESS
Over Slxr?Years In Business. Nou>
Insuring Over Two Billion 
Dollars In Policies on 
3,300,000 Lives
OCÔUiVYiL
THEATER
Continuous 4 to 11 P. M.
Direction "Enterprises Theaters Company 
HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
RIN-TIN-TIN
The Wonder Dog, In
“FIND YOUR MAN”
A smashing rapid fire drama of 
action. Perfect photoplay enter­
tainment for every member of 
the family.
A SPORTLIGHT film showing 
the technic of our greatest ath­
letes—Aesop's Fable, "She's In 
Again" and the latest screen 
news will also bo shown.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
3ATURDAY
Tom Moore and 
Ann Forrest
“Marriage Morals”
---------with---------
EDMUND BREE8E, FLORENCE 
BILLINGS, HARRY T. MOREY 
and others.
A Dynamic Drama of Contracta 
by Will Nigh.
Felix, tho Cat, In "All at 8ca,” 
an amusing situation for tho 
popular cartoon cat; and tho 
latest Schenley Nows.
ALL WEEK 
SPECIAL 
MUSICAL 
ATTRACTION
The World's Snappiest Orchestra
Nick Whyte’s Southerners
Every member a master of syncopation.
Free Parking Space.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. DECEMBER 16, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Cross Word Puzzle No. 2YEARLING CAGERS 
NEED CANDIDATES
TARTAN RIFLE TEAM 
DROPS FIRST MATCHATHLETIC COUNCIL 
AWARDS LETTERSOn the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRIoTOFFTho Carnegie Tech Rlfie Team lost 
its first match of tho season to the 
University of Chicago, by the small 
margin of ten points 
The squad turned in a very nice 
total of 480, hut the final returns 
showed that the Chicagoans dropped 
only one point from the possible per­
fect score, turning in a 499 point total.
The match was shot from the prone 
position, twenty shots per man, bulls- 
eye counting live points. Each team 
shot on its own range, the results be­
ing telegraphed In, and the targets 
mailed, the match ending Saturday 
morning. Decomber 6.
A very interesting schedule has been 
arranged, including teams from all 
parts of (he country, and Coach Cap­
tain Lyons believos that with a little 
more practice the Carnegie shooters 
acquit themselves quite creditably. 
Scores of the Carnegie Team.
Hughes ........................... i.................... 100
Tntum ...................................................... OS
McCoombs .............................................. .9?
.Tarema...................................................... 97
Wilson ..:............................................... 97
Coach John Irwin’s Squad 
Faces Hard Tri-State 
Schedule
Varsity and Freshmen Graft 
and Cross Country Mem 
Are Honored
ONE SPORT RUMOR
Some of the city papers last week carried a story in which it was 
stated that the authorities at Carnegie Tech might in the near future limit an 
athlete to participation in only one sport during the school year, the as­
sumption being that scholastic requirements are so rigid here that such a 
drastic rule is necessary. This story was emphatically denied by Graduate 
Manager Overend and others. So far as we can learn there is absolutely no 
foundation for the report given out by the papers. DoubUess some enter­
prising writer wished to “spring” something startliug on the Pittsburgh 
public now that the football season is over, and picked Carnegie as the vic­
tim because it is known that our school stands very high scholastically.
As the rule now stands, an athlete may go out for as many different 
sports as he wishes, as long as he keeps well up In his studies. There is 
very little possibility of this rule being changed, for it covers the situation 
pretty thoroughly and protects both the student and the school.
On Tuesday evening. Decemberftfctn., 
the Athletic Connell mot with the par* 
pose of awarding lettors to tho Var­
sity Football and Varsity Cross*Couw.tjyy 
men; and also awarding numerals rt*» 
the freshmen who represented 
school in the fall sports. Many cipsaw 
wore smoked during the session, and? 
Buddy Overend’s office showed £iw> 
signs of a strenuous evotiing. After «aim 
smoke of discussion had cleared away 
results were given for publication:
All varsity football men unrniKfj 
their letters were to receive besfo'ias* 
their sweater a gold football, theg 
also the sheepskin coat which iSbffy 
wore during the latter part oS' 
season.
The football men earning their Wtt*- 
citv “C” are: Captain O. II. Nawsns», 
Max Bastian, Chester Hable, A'yj;m 
Cass. Lloyd Yoder, Willinm 
Purl Anderson, Ben Kristof, ML WL 
Goodwin, H. C. Wortonberger, 0:. U‘~ 
Beede, R. N. Harmon and Maxji'igwr 
R. H. Reed. The following wotc Tinh­
orn mended and also received letfrnm* 
,1. F. Christoff. A. S. Guthrie. ,Y.. SSL 
Bielskl, C. J. Mefort, and W. W. 53>ti*+- 
alioe.
Varsity Minor "Cs” were awa'alk'ti! 
to Captain H. E. Dyke man, .3. >r.: 
Bright, C. E. Peck, A. De.lesns, L. W.. 
Hines and Mgr. Carey Proctor fiar 
Cross Country.
Tho freshmen football men slhio 
came in for their share of the hcuxftl- 
out. Manager George E. Slyo was. 
awarded a Major "C", and numerittto 
were awarded to Captain M. R. Wwv- 
er, II. II. Groskloss, I. N. Cowan, XTi 
Hess, J. J. Comack, L. M. Flshl^-tst,
E. F. Allon, ,T. M. Marshall, AV G. La*v~ 
lltt, A. J. 9'obaHtian, J. M. John$tat\.
G. .T. Moorhead, T. N. Neff and 11 
Sehnughoncy.
Numorals wore awarded t.o 'itotw 
Plebo orosa-country team composed vtfr 
Captain I. L. Crawford. O. .T. Siyu* 
Holler, J. W. Hobo. C. .1. Fry. .1 tii. 
Jacobs and C. N. Klrscli and CiCTite» 
Colvin, tho manager.
Tho Athletic Council made th« 
ection for managers for next ywws: 
Thoy aro as follows: varsity tao'toeOU 
manager, Russell Roller: frei»h«vvun 
foatball manager, Robert DePuo; ut-- 
tornate, Vorn Wondlandt.
The freshman basketball team is at 
present confronted with a very vital 
problem—-that of securing more can­
didates. The squad has been cut down 
greatly by tho oxisting eligibility 
rules and although % some promising 
material is still left, there is an ex­
cellent chance for.any plebe who has 
the required number of "P. Q.’s" and 
tho determination to succeed. Among 
the present members of the squad 
are only three, men who have had 
high school experience.
Those reporting every night for 
practice are: Ritts, Itizzutti, Reeves, 
Munroe, Bromley, Sebastian, Cowan, 
Shinn, Dnvis, and Illig.
Coach John Irwin, acting in this 
capacity last year, turned out a sea­
sonable team considering the mate­
rial he had at hand. In addition to 
directing the Carnegie freshman team, 
Coach Irwin • is the montor of the 
Gladstone High School five. During 
the season of 1921-22 he occupied a 
similar position with the Oakland 
Y. M. C. A., which won tho tri-state 
championship that year.
Manager “Eddie" Miller has drawn 
up the following schedule:
Jan. 10—Penn State (there).
Jan. 16—W. &. J. (thore).
Jan. 20—Pitt (there).
Feb. 7—California Normal (thoro) 
(ponding).
Feb. 10—Indiana Normal (hero).
Fob. 13—Pitt (here).
Feb. 20—California Normal (here).
Fob. 21—Ivlskl (here).
Feb. 27—W. & J. (here).
Mar. G—Indiana Normal (thore).
Mar. 7—Kiskl (there).
PRINCETON VS. CARNEGIE
On December 29. when most of the students will be just recovering from 
the effects of a big Christmas dinner back home, the strong Princeton quiutet 
will battle the Tartan five led by Captain “Midge” Matter in the now gym. 
This will be the opening game of the season for Coach Lubic's proteges and 
promises to be a thriller. Doubtless only the students residing in the Pitts­
burgh district will be here to attend this contest. We are sorry for those 
who will miss it, but there will be other attractive games .later which will 
be worth while seeing. Pitt, Notre Dame, Wash-Jefi'. Penn State and others 
will be met during the season, and should furnish some of the most exciting 
and interesting cage battles ever staged by a Tartan five.
THE 1925 FOOTBALL OPENER
Next fall the opening game of the season will be a week later than has 
been customary for several years past. Out of respect for our friendly 
enemy, Pitt, who will open her gigantic new stadium on September 26. the 
Athletic Council at Carnegie decided not to schedule a game for that day.
The new stadium at Pitt will till a long-felt need, and we heartily con­
gratulate those responsible at the University for assuring the ultimate suc­
cess of the great project. It will be a big day in the history of Pitt when 
the new stadium is thrown open, and Carnegie Tech will be right on hand 
to offer congratulations.
To drink a small quantity. 
Pale (Coloq.)
Prefix meaning half.
A Greek letter.
Desired attainment of certain 
class of students.
Moved swiftly.
A college at C. I. T.
The puzzle in the Tartan last week 
met with such favor that we have 
decided to publish several other “en 
igmas.” The first puzzle was so easy 
that we do not think it necessary to 
publish the answers. The one this 
week is a little more difficult, though 
every intelligent person should be 
able to work it out.
Horizontal.
1. Best known girl at Carnegie.
10. Friend (French).
11. A boy’s nickname.
12. A long period of time.
13. Sharp to the taste.
15. Found at Morleins.
1G. A popular seat for girls.
18. Possessed.
19. To exist.
22. A form of entertainment; usually 
Dutch style.
24. Negation.
25. Symbol for poisonous gas.
26. A college at C. I. T. (abbr.)
27. Article.
28. Prefix signifying negation.
29. Term often applied to your
“sweet mama."
31. A Greek letter.
32. A powerful explosive.
SECOND SHILLING WILL
APPEAR ABOUT FEB. 10
(Continued From ^ago One) 
terial is to be used anonymously, 
please, however, send tho name with 
the manuscript. The name will not 
bo printed if that is the author’s wish.
The support given to tho Shilling 
so far this year is not quite up to tho 
expectations of tho oditors. Tho Shill­
ing is the ' only publication on tho 
campus dedicated solely to put be­
fore tho student body tho literary ef­
forts of our someday genlusos. Buy 
your copy early and get bohlnd this 
worthy publication.
To enroll in college.
A well-known athletic association 
of A. A. U. (abbr.)
A classy "rib”.
Within.
Course in Science school (abbr.) 
A college degree.
Mouthpiece of a musical instru­
ment.
Prefix meaning before. 
Attainment in music never 
reached by dorm boys.
Coarse cloth made from jute. 
Club.
To impress. ¦
Thp lower r^eions.
Father's liability and mother’s 
worry.
English (abbr.)
Popular pastime at tedius lec­
ture.
Rome.
Slang for hat.
A ruffian.
A fairy. ,
Name of a popular song.
Not a "cookie-pusher.”
Indefinite article.
Thinp (Latin-Ablative Case). 
Symbol for a metal.
BASKETBALL PLAYERS 
BEGIN TO SHOW FORMCHRISTMAS PRESENTS1 (Buy now 
to yt:t boat selectlonn) Wallace Nutting 
Pictures and Calendars, Inexpensive 
Novelties with Greetings, Fountain 
Penn. Eversharp Pencils, Leather 
Goods. Monoflrnrnmed Stationery and 
Dle-Plate with Calling Cards, Beauti­
ful CnrdR and Booklets (1,000 styles). 
Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Ar­
cade.
Smiles 
¡fes back, At 
P you!
Collegiate Barber Shop
L. Danlole and T. Cicero, Prop«. 
Quick Sorvloo by Four Expert 
Barbers
4IB SOUTH CRAIG STREET .
SHOES SHINED 
HATS CLIO AND))
MEN’S STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
mtmnrnmmtmmmjmmwmtjui
THE 
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Don’t Be An AntiqueOakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Some people look like an oln rello In formal clothes that 
wore tailored yenrr. ago. Let un Rent you one of our New 
Models. You'll nee the dlfforonce.
Largest stock between New York and Chloago.
Announces a series of eight Sat­
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 o’clock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital -  ...................$300,000.00
Surplus..........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
JUNIOR BANQUET HELD
LAST FRIDAY EVENINGWhittington Dress Suit Co.
G002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE PITTSBURGH, PA.
Smlthflcld 0341 Hours: 8:30—5:30(Continued From Pag« One) 
ers were late in arriving which made* 
things seem rather slow for awhile, 
but the Carnegians, who furnished 
the music, came to the rescue with 
a varied program of jazz selections.
’ihe surprise promised by the com 
mittee was in the form of a very 
clever impersonation of the head 
waiter by Luke Barnett. 'Mr. Barnett 
for the benefit of those who do not 
know him, is a comedian of Pitts­
burgh, and he so ably acted his part 
that it is doubtful whether anyone 
would have disclosed his identity if 
the committee had chosen to keep it 
secret. The real entertainment of 
the evening was furnished by the 
dancers, four of them, who, with their 
repertoire of Egyptian, Indian, aes­
thetic, and what not dances, added 
an artistic touch to the occasion of j 
which the Juniors were entirely ap-! 
preciative. Cheer upon cheer greet- j 
ed each performance, and the dancers i 
retired amid thunderous applause.
It might be said that the Juniors j 
conducted themselves in keeping with | 
their reputation. It rained most of the 
evening, and aside from a few flying 
rolls and chairs, and the discovery 
that the silverware was quite apt to 
bend and become twisted, nothing ser­
ious occurred to cause the hotel man­
agement any worry.
EVERY STUDENT NEEDS ONE
STUDENTS!
gg11“111'11111"! Chew it after 
I every meal1
I It stimulates
I {Qr Qppetite and
| U; >Ws digestion.
i/1§( ¿sr^ll It makes your 
! r) 1 food do yon more
SntnnkrafiMminnE good. Note bow 
It relieves that stolly feeling alter hearty eating.
teeth.
jgiHjg LNy fe? sweetens
breatb and 
It*» tlie uoody
¿JaKtga ibat
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING 
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing. 
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
MUSIC AT PROM TO BE
SUPPLIED BY NEW YORKERS
(Continued From Page One.) 
tained, will exert himself to the ut-; 
most to make them worthy of Car­
negie Tech’s most successful Junior 
Prom. The new Carnegie Seal, which 
is now being designed by the Student 
Council, will appear for the first time 
as one of the details of the favors, 
and should cause them to be coveted 
remembrances of the evening.
The final arrangements for the use 
of the William Penn Ball Room have 
been made for some time, and the 
committee is assured the best of serv­
ice. Few of the details in regard to 
financial arrangements, such as as­
sessments, etc., have been determined, 
but the tentative price has been set at 
nine ($9.00) dollars.
So, Juniors, practically everything 
has been arranged for your Prom, and 
all that you need now is a Tux, a Taxi, 
and a Girl.
REMINGTON
PortableTypewriterFIRST PERFORMANCE OF
“THE FAN”.GIVEN TONIGHTThe Remington Portable will serve you well— 
not only in school or college, but for years and years 
to come. It will give you a training which will be 
helpful to you in all your after life.
Compact—fits in a case only four inches high.
Complete—has the four-row keyboard—no shift­
ing for figures—just like the big machines.
Convenient—can be operated on your lap if you 
wish, for it carries its table on its back.
Come in and see the Remington Portable.
Price, complete with case, i860. Easy payment 
terms if desired.
NOTED ENGINEERAufhammer < Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
(Continued From Page One.)
Mararduo ............................. Mr. Daniels
Tinioteo .................................... Mr. Resley
Scavezzo ................................... Mr. Perrin
Tognino ......................... Mr. Wadsworth
Simonato ....... ................. Mr. Schwartz
Gertride ......................... Miss Sowersby
Candida .................................. Miss Lurla
Nina ...................................... Miss Brown
Properties .................. Miss SzoUl and
Mr. Savage
Lights..Miss Lindsey and Mr. Gunder
(Continued From Page One.) 
member of the State Department 
Special Committee on Cables. He is 
also trustee of the Engineering 
Foundation and a member of various1 
committees of the National Research] 
Council.
Mr. Jewett is a member of the I 
Delta Upsllon fraternity and Sigma 
Pi, the national scientific honorary. 
He has written a number of brochures 
and articles, and has made public ad­
dresses on physics and electrical sub­
jects.
STUDENT GUIDE
ON 8ALE ALL WEEK
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
(Continued Fiyjn Page One) 
doubt that It will In time bocomo a 
a Carnegie tradition. All that Is need­
ed now Is tho co-operation of tho stu­
dents, so do your bit. «
PROMINENT COMMERCIAL
ENGINEER ELECTED TO 
DIRECTOR OF S.
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Carnegie Tech Post Office 
J. A. DOUGHERTY 
Care Carnegie Tech Post Office or 
254 Bellefield Avenue
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Unkind Classification.
Rosamund always Insists on running 
the games, so one day Jeannette got 
tired of it, and came upstairs, mad as 
could be, threw down her hat, and 
said: “I Just am not going to play 
with her any more, for she never will 
let me be the mother. She always 
makes me be the papa or the dog.”
Dr. Walter F. Rittman, head of the 
Department of Commercial Engineer­
ing at Carnegie' Institute of Tech­
nology, has been elected as a director 
of the Society of Industrial Engi­
neers, according to an announcement 
from the society’s headquarters in 
Chicago.
United 8tatca Tin.
Our total unnual consumption of tin 
la something like 03,000 tons. Un­
fortunately we are obliged to Import 
nearly all of it, for the United State» 
has hardly any tin - deposits worth 
mentioning.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOUR»‘HE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OECEMBER 16, 1924
fi
r
>
3ALUMNI PAGEj <Íi
ÜÄMER ART PROF. 
®S HIGH HONORS
i CLAN NEWS 11T.W. STEVENS HEADS Excerpts From Pgh. Papers By Their 
i----------------------------! MEMORIAL THEATER Sport Writers On Notre Dame Game
NEW YORK CLAN
K Latest Painting Wins 
^anie at Chicago Ex­
hibition
SS&giesie F. Savage, formerly the as- 
. dt&xztfi professor of decoration at Car- 
Tech, has been awarded the 
Xfessfe G. Lagon Medal, carrying with 
*5 •'« »It of $1,500, for his painting 
TSfiKttSsional,” which appeared at the 
€Se*2s*sp Art Institute exhibition.
fcfe. S3rage received his education 
-sfe sflta: Cbrcoran Art School, Washing- 
few;. Si C.; the Art Institute, and the 
my of Fine Arts, Chicago. In 
' ¿ifiS. ¡fee won the Roman .prize, which 
Sim a three-year fellowship at 
fHhsn -American Institute in Rome. He 
v-to- Carnegie Tech, 1918, and be- 
\ She assistant professor of deco- 
During his stay at Carnegie, 
fcsr-csTe the students a thorough tecli- 
vasvdi instruction in decoration. His 
rfHsBfiaIs did some excellent work in 
tcm&rni. decorations, and many won 
¡Honors from the Beaux Arts So- 
•rafefijr of New York. At present lie is 
agoisfKiing his profession in New York, 
sfBS; Caa been assisting Barry Faulk- 
see- 3a executing decorations for the 
*3teafjas-at Eastman's School of Music, 
JSKMfiffis&sz, N. Y.
j The annual banquet of the New 
• York Clan will be held at the Hotel 
! McAlpin on Saturday, February 7, 
11925. A committee has been appoint­
ed to handle this affair by Mr. J. M. 
! Guter, E’16, president of the New 
1 York Clan for the coming year, 
j The New England and Philadelphia 
i Clans should note the date of this 
dinner and send delegations, as it is 
expected that a large number of trus- 
I tees and corporation members will be 
i present.
BUFFALO CLAN
The Buffalo Carnegie Clan has ar­
ranged to hold its Annual Christmas 
Banquet at the.; Carnegie. Union on 
December 26. A big time is planned. 
Final plans have not been given out, 
as yet, but the committee is busy on 
them. Anybody willing to share the 
good time and come to the reunion 
will please communicate with Joseph 
Davis, 34 Burgard Place, Buffalo, 
N. Y.
The' clan invites the undergraduates 
to keep this date on the.ir holiday so­
cial calendar.
Erie Clan
C5SMEGIE RECOGNITION 
æÇELRY ON SALE NOW
gfcttra long time some kind of Car- 
Recognition Badge was wanted 
fi& a&o¿Tents and adumni alike. Finally 
At ¡ra&eenition badge was designed and 
»sssjried. It was made in both pin 
iawfi Button at first. However, many 
tSheSsvS to have the recognition badge 
4EWBD0T ri* other kinds of jewelry.
• iSi-t an agreement was made with 
tfes Manufacturer of this jewelry, and 
•¿irffijy Shere is Carnegie Recognition 
«SSwMtSry of all kinds—pins, buttons, 
¦ziinzF» &ar-pins and charms. All this 
n&sy is designed and made attrac- 
iSrtfSF and artistically, so that none 
w#al fear as to its quality or style.
-fisa«- of the above styles of Carnegie 
i&jsrsftsrition Jewelry may be pur- 
•f.S?;«sc$ at the Alumni Office or at the 
Store. A display is shown in 
SBto^Swat of the Alumni Office.
z »I Compliments 
of
Skibo Inn
Old Schenley 
Lunch
"S>.e place where all good fel- 
¦V’EbiVfS meet and enjoy a good 
•BJHKflS.
Social 35c plate dinner, in-I¦.ñhaiivg dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
iwopean Tours
Sfer College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Days$395 and up\ Cs&ege credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
lAr full particulars address 
if «EW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Tours Division 
i SrtaJïîngton Square, New Ycîk
The Carnegie Erie Clan will hold 
their Twelfth Annual Christmas Par­
ty at the Reed House on Tuesday, 
December 30tli.
A good orchestra has been engag­
ed and a lunch will be served during 
the evening. We want all the pres­
ent students at Carnegie to 'attend 
this party, and as a special induce­
ment have given them a special ad­
mission price.
The .comimttee in charge of ar­
rangements consists of Messrs. R. C. 
Altermatt. Ed. W. Gross, Harrison 
Reed, and Harry A. Weber.
Former Carnegie Prof. 
Dircct Art Theater in 
Chicago
to
JOHNSTOWN STUDENTS URGED 
TO ATTEND MEETING DEC. 16
There will be an important meet­
ing of all' the students from Johns­
town, Pa., in room 107 Arts School 
at 4:30 p. m., Tuesday, December 16. 
All Johnstown students are strongly 
urged to attend this meeting, which 
will be short but of great import.
TARTAN STAFF GUESTS
OF SCHENLEY THEATER
(Continued From Page One.) 
the singer added auother well-given 
selection.
“Lumberjacks,” an animated Aesop's 
Fabel cartoon, is one of -those laugh­
able and clever drawings that only 
Paul Terry can produce. Another 
comedy shown was “The Girl Hunt­
er,” which was only ordinary. The 
program given was worth while see­
ing. The members of the staff offer 
their thanks to the management Cor 
these several hours’ enjoyment.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
fSUXEMBÜMG
.Xo13GITAN FRE BUi ÔRYYi6i 9WV
The
DINNER SUIT
ClJT precisely according to 
conservatively corrcct ideas 
in notch and shawl collar 
models. Tailored in the LUXENBERG way of fab­
rics which insure excellent 
wear.
¿3950
Ics-AT LUXENBERG 2 4ERC5
Gen rERWdbWLy jib PREt
>.Next showing at William 
l Penn Hotel, Jan. 23 and 24
< style memo, book sent free on request:
F
ROM the collej man’s point 
of view clothing must be 
ded right. Halfway meiurs 
simply don’t get by.
The new John Ward Shoes for 
Fail dr ded right—just the 
styles and lethers collej men 
want.
On Display By
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
—at—
SKIBO INN 
TOMORROW
UicoaroiiATSD aeo. a5C5pWB5 Rm;u 
Stores in New York. Brooklyn, Newark 
and Philadelphia -"09 Address for Mail 
Orders, 121 Dmne sc.. New York City
Invest Your Savings in Bonds
For personal investment there are 
few things that oiler an many ad­
vantages as good bonds. Safety, 
income and marketability are tho 
factors that measure investment 
values and in theso respects good 
bonds are rated high.
Invest your money In bonds. 
Whether you can afford ono or 
many, you will find hero intelligent 
Interest In your requirements and 
a sincero deairo to provide invest­
ments that will fit your particular 
needs.
And remember, you can buy good 
bonds in denominations as low as 1 »100.
Thomas Wood Stevens, formerly 
head of the Drama Department at 
Carnegie, takes up his work in a few 
months as director of the Kenneth 
Sawyer Goodman Memorial Theater, 
Chicago's newest embellishment. This 
new Art Theater, which is fast near­
ing completion, represents a gift of 
$250.000 to the Art Institute of Chi­
cago by Mr. and Mrs. William O. 
Goodman, of Chicago, in many of 
their son who died during the late 
war.
Mr. Steven’s work at Carnegie is 
well known, as he was head of the 
Drama Department from 1913 until 
last year. Concerning his work at 
Carnegie the “Chicago News,” under 
the heading “Who Stevens Is,” writes: 
“Thomas Wood 'Stevens, producer 
playwright, is oue of the best known 
directors of amateur effort in the 
country. From 1902 to 1911 he taught 
illustration and memorial painting at 
the Institute; spent the next two 
years .teaching at the nUiversity of 
Wisconsin; then wept to Pittsburgh 
to be head of the department of Dra­
ma and Director of the Theater at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, the 
first comprehensive training school of 
its kind. Under his direction, some 
two hundred and seventy plays were 
produced in his ten years of director­
ship. eighty of.them b^ing.new^plays.”
This new Memorial Theater is to 
be a great dramatic workshop. Scen­
ery will be made and painted, prop­
erties built, costumes designed and 
executed. Plays will be fashioned in 
the work rooms and a repertoire com­
pany of students will bring forth the 
productions of the clnssics, the mod­
erns and their own efforts.
EARNEST F. BARV0ETS 
TO WED IN DECEMBER
Another of Carnegie's alumni is to 
be honorably discharged from the 
Bachelor’s Club, since the engagement 
of Miss Patricia B. Brooks of San 
Antonio, Texas, to Ernest F. Bar- 
voets, son of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest A. 
Barvoets, of Albany, N. Y., has been 
announced.
Mr. Barvoets received his degree 
in printing and publishing at Car­
negie, coming here after having at­
tended Dartmouth. At‘present he is 
collected with the J- B. Lyon Com­
pany, of which his father is vice, presi­
dent. Miss Brooks has lived in both 
Pittsburgh and Albany.
The wfedding is to take place some­
time during this month. It will be 
solemnized in the parish house of St. 
Vincent de Paul’s Church. Mr. and 
Mrs. Barvoets will live in Albany.
FIVE GAMES DEFINITELY
ON GRIO SCHEDULE
(Continued P'rom Page One.)
fixtures 011 our schedule. The remain- 
11 ig dates must be filled in each yenr 
to the best advantage. For instance, 
last year it.'was felt that the Tartans 
would have a green team and not up 
to the standard of former years. Con­
sequent an attempt was made to 
lighten the schedule somewhat. Ow­
ing to circumstances this was impos­
sible, and the Skibos had to face as 
difficult a schedule as they had ever 
had. That, the team came through 
the seasou with' such great success 
has been a distinct surprise, and 
everyone connected with the team in 
anyway deserves a world of praise.
Negotiations are under way to put 
suitable teams in the vacant places 
011 the schedule, so that the Tartans 
will be able to go through the season 
with the best of success. After the 
first two games, which will be with 
mediocre teams. Waah-Jeff and Pitt 
are met in a row. A rest after these 
strenuous games will be necessary, 
so no game will be scheduled for the 
week following the Pitt struggle. Two 
weeks after the Pitt game Notre 
Dame will be met. The only other 
game scheduled after that as yet' is 
the one with Lehigh, which will be 
the last one of the season.
A tentative schedule would appear 
somewhat like the following:
October 3—Thiel, here.
October 10—Pending.
October 17—Wash-Jeff, there.
October 24—Pitt, in New Stadium.
October 31—Permanently Open.
November 7—Notre Dame, there.
November 14—Pending.
November 21—Pending.
November 28—Lehigh, here.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL TO
APPEAR TOMORROW
(Continued From Page One.) 
closed in this topic.
There is also an- article on “Re­
frigeration.” dealing with the advan­
tages of perfected systems of preser­
vation. The contents of the Journal 
as a whole are very educational and 
necessary. This publication will ap­
pear 011 the campus next Wednesday, 
December 17th and will allow those 
interested to purchase a copy for the 
I Christmas holidays.
There are several openings on the 
editorial staff of the Journal at this 
time. All who would like to take 
part in this, an important student ac­
tivity, may get further information 
from Mr. Bittler senior in the Organic 
Chemistry Department.
Lancaster Pike First Turnpike.
The first turnpike In the United 
States was constructed between Lan­
caster, Pa., and Philadelphia.
SKIBOS GREAT IN DEFEAT 
""Great as the Rocknemen were, in 
victory, Carnegie was even greater iu 
defeat It is just necessary to state 
that the Tartans scored more touch­
downs against the mid-Westerner a 
than all of their other opponents com­
bined. Jumping off to an early lead, 
the fighting Plaid compelled Knute 
Roclcne to shoot, his regulars in early 
in the first quarter, and even the re­
doubtable first-stringers had their 
hands full the balance of the first half, 
although they managed to score twice 
in pretty rapid order to overcome the 
handicap imposed by the second 
string outfit. Carnegie fought back 
Avith ferocity and managed to hold 
them even the first half, the count 
read 13 all.
To Bonnie Kristoff, goes the honor 
of tallying the touchdown which put 
his team in an enviable position, when 
he picked up a block punt and scam­
pered merrily over the goal, a jaunt 
48 yards. Then Dwight Beede. 
scintillating fullback, registered the 
tying goal 011 a 13-yard dash as the 
first half was about to end. Capt..New­
man tallying the needed point to knot 
the count. He used the deceptive, 
spinner and caught the South Benders 
.off their guard.
It is doubtful if ever a battle on the 
gridiron was productive of as many 
thrill’s as yesterday's which wound 
up the pigskin season at Forbes Field. 
Practically every possible play in the! 
football catogory was uncovered, and 
some that are not therein. There were 
forward passes galore, end runs, line 
plunges, blocked • kicks, fake - passes 
and, in spite of the cold weather, very 
few fumbles, such as occurred, were 
advantageous to Carnegie.
Up until this time Carnegie did not 
have possession of the ball, and was 
constantly' on the defensive. How­
ever, the' Skibos still retained their 
traditional fighting heart, and were 
rewarded when Anderson sneaked 
through tho Gold and Blue line and 
seomed to snatch tho ball before 
Stuhldrelier took it from center. This 
occurred on a 30yard march and two 
successive first downs took the ball to 
the 10-yard line, whence Beede streak­
ed across or his second touchdown of 
the day on the same play he rosorted 
to previously and Newman missed tho 
extra point, making the score read 10 
to 19.
Thus ended the greatest exhibition 
ot the poniilar autumn sport ever seen 
on Forbes Field.—Gazette Timos.
By REGIS M. WELSH, 
Pittsburgh Post Sporting Editor.
Drag out the superlatives you have 
been saving for cross-word puzzle 
emorgcneios; sort them all out, and 
then go hunt for somo more. For it 
will take all you can find to cover the 
exhibition yestorday afternoon, which 
rang down the curtain on the local 
football season and saw the greatest 
team in the world overcome, by sheer 
strength and nlmost uncanny ability, 
one of tho gainest teams which ever 
trod upon a gridiron.
When It was all over and tho 1924 
season had passod Into history, the In­
comparable Notre Dame squad, cham­
pions of the entire country, were vic­
tors, 40-19, over tho Carnegio Tartans, 
whose plucky fight and indomltablo 
spirit made them a worthy foe. for tho 
various teams which the master mind 
of Knute Rockne injected into the con­
test.
Carnegie's Trick Mystifies.
Carnegio, with the most baffling and 
best scoring play of any team in the 
country, three times managed to cross 
the goal line of the Well-balanced, 
well-oiled, perfectly drilled squad, 
which has proved itself the peer of 
all other combinations.
But scoring three times w’as not 
quite enough. For a time it looked 
like the biggest upset of the most tur­
bulent season and, as such, worried 
33,000 persons who stood and sat, 
chattering in the cold, while they 
gazed upon the most intricate and 
baffling repertoire of plays which any 
two teams have ever cut loose on one 
gridiron.
Carnegie’s First “Break.”
The glory of Carnegie rose to its 
greatest heights soon after the game 
got under way. Hardly had the sec­
ond string team of the "Fighting 
Irish” opened up its stuff and worked 
deep into Carnegie territory then the 
break came. Carnegie had figured on 
the breaks to help in come close to 
evening up a lop-sided situation and 
being eagerly sought, this first op­
portunity was not overlooked when.it 
finally came. Trying for a placement 
from the Carnegie 7-yard line after 
the first drive which brought them 
within scoring distance, Notre Dame 
found the alert Tartan line onto its 
game and the attempt was blocked. 
As the play, which was to mean an 
early advantage, got under way, the 
Tartan line charged in with a mighty 
force, broke through the Notre Dame 
defense and spoiled O’Boyle’s try, and 
for the time, staved off the foe which 
later overcame them.
Carnegie Scores First.
Throwing everything they had into 
the fight, Carnegie found bulk almost 
useless against the great defensive 
tactics of Notre Dame's line and ends. 
Making only one yard In throe plays, 
Carnegie punted and sent the ball to 
midfield. Once more the Catholics 
started charging, but after getting a 
few yards closer the coveted goal, 
preferred to await their time before 
opening up with their real stuff. Try­
ing to punt out of danger, Edwards, 
who learned all his football at Kiskl 
under Jim Marks, made another try 
to relieve himself of the trying situa­
tion. Once more he dropped back to 
punt, and again Carnegie charged in 
with unrelenting fury. The kick was 
blocked, the ball rolled about until,
finally. Bony Kristoff. gathering it. up. 
and, to the consternation of friends 
and foes, galloped away for the first 
touchdowu, which sent tho Tartans' 
stands into an ecstacy of delight and 
cast gloom over the great unorganized 
throng which had come to see their 
favorites conquer.
Then came the transformation. The 
resourceful Steffen now had to gamble 
with a team which had made undying 
football history. Three of the four 
players who had run roughshod over 
everyone, and eight of the inconspicu­
ous linemen were in there fighting. 
But Carnegie stood its ground, so well 
in fact that Notre Dame was held 
scoreless in the first quarter.
Carnegie Fights Back.
Carnegie hati'ofily had the ball ohce 
in the 15 minutes of tho quarter, so 
well did Notre Dame meet tho issue, 
and got through with it. The Tartans 
were now in the rear and only tho 
most optimistic held out hope for 
them to cope with the stuff that Notre 
Dame had shown they were capable 
of.
But, wit'h the fighting heart of a 
team which never seemed to sense 
when it is beaten, Carnegie came 
back. The wonderful “Three Horse­
men0 “blew'' one play, and it resulted 
in a fumble. Harmon wormed through 
the mass and, when they were un­
buttoned, if. wns found that Carnegie 
had taken the ball on tho Notro Dame 
27. This was the second griovous mis- 
play of the visitors, and Carnegio was 
quick to take advantage of it.
Carnegie, too, wont to tho air for 
advantage, but lacked the-'finesao of 
their opponents. They failed on the 
first attempt and went buck to the 
stuff they knew best. Fako forma­
tions and lino plungos toiSk tho ball to 
the Norte Dame 11-yard line.
Hero came the chance for Carnegio 
to show its stuff. Lining up in an 
orthodox way, it took only a second 
for the play to get undor way, and In 
tho same way In which they had baffled 
Pitt. State, Wash-Joff and otliora, the 
ball began flitting about, first here 
and then there. The famous Curnogio 
trick scoring play was on. Four Notro 
Dame men stopped four susplclous- 
looking hall carriers and flattened them 
but out of the maze came Beede, just 
like he had done against the Panthor 
and beforo anyone roalizod where tho 
ball was, ho shot over tho lino for 
Carnegie's second touchdown. New­
man set the crowd wild with a place­
ment which tlod tho score.
On they battled until tho whistle at, 
tho end of tho half and both to»ms 
went to tho showers to got tho tongue* 
lashings of their coaches, which usu­
ally stir thom Into action.
Carnegie's Last Bit.
Beaten 40-13 at this stage, no 01,10 
expected Carnegio to koep fighting, 
but they did, and when Notro Dame 
fumbled on tholr own 30, Donahuo re­
covered. Carnegie, eager to scoro 
again, began a double passing sorloa 
of playa, and with three of thom suc­
cessful, took tho ball to tho Notro 
Da mo 10. Hero a penalty took somo 
of tho fire out of tho locals. But thoy 
had one play Notro Da mo could not 
fathom, and out It came. Tho same 
olrl trlclc which brought ono previous 
touchdown, again broke out. Weird 
passing, players moving about for a 
distracting purpose, Notro Dame sec­
ond string 111011 trying to find the ball 
carrier. ' Once more Beede broke 
loose from nowhere, and before Notre 
Dame could locate him, Carnegie’s 
third touchdown, and the groatost 
point scoring ovor accomplished 
against recent Notro Dame teams, was 
a fact.
Notre Dame Is unbeatable, masters 
of the game called football. BuL they 
found In Carnegie a team which 
fought them every Inch, and nover 
gave up. Pittsburgh should be proud 
to be host to two of the greatest foot­
ball teams that ever played here.— 
Pittsburgh Post.
Now, for a few side-lights on Car­
negie, that plucky little Tartan, a 
team that has been buffeted around 
all fall, losing to Wash-Jeff, State and 
the Marines, but defeating Pitt by a 
supreme effort. Imagine how they felt 
between the halves, after having 
scored twice and tied the greatest 
grid team in the world.
“Keep Fighting.”
“Just keep on fighting, boys—that’s 
all I ask,” said Wally Steffen, the 
coach, who means as much to Car­
negie as Knute Rockne does to Notre 
Dame. “You have proved to me that 
a Carnegie team never quits. Just 
keep it up, give the school every thing 
you’ve got. Rockne has his best com­
bination in there and you scored on 
them. Beede’s touchdown was as 
clean as a whistle. You fooled them 
completely. Keep it up! Play hard, 
for Notre Dame Is desperate, and the 
only way to hold a team of this caliber 
is to charge into them just as hard as 
they charge into you.”
Steffen also had a whole, lot more to 
say, and while the Hooslers won the 
game, as everybody figured they 
would win It, Carnegio came through 
with three touchdowns, a foftt no 
other team In the country can boast, 
during the past three years. Look 
back over tho records of this wonder 
team from the Middle West, If you 
doubt my statement.
It would be hard, indeed, to do 
scribe the feelings of tho monster 
crowd, fully as big as the gathering 
at Pitt’s major games against Wash- 
Jeff and State.
Carnegie was the under dog. It was 
a Pittsburgh team, typical of the Steel 
City. Every city, town and hamlet 
for 100 miles around sent representa­
tives here, just to see how Rockne did 
it. The majority were not for Car­
negie in spirit, but were impartial in 
their cheering.
It was a game to stir tho blood. 
Every big college In tho country 
would lilco to add Notre Dame on its 
schedulo next Fall. The fame of 
Rockno's Figlitiug Irish is known 
from coast to coast. Thoy are tho 
last.word in football.
Thevo was. of course, somo luck at­
tached to the scoring of Carnegie’s 
first touchdown by Benny Kristof, but 
Kristoff scooped up tho ball after a 
blocked punt, and ho deserved all the 
glory that goes with such an achieve­
ment. That one play by Kristof will 
do more to elect him captaiu of next 
year’s team than anything else.
Kristof comes from Johnstown and 
played on tho same team in high 
school as did Wissinger of Pitt. Johns­
town sent down several hundred fans 
to this game. Thoy wore proud of 
Bonny and cheered his nntno until 
they were hoarse.
Beode’s touchdown, in tho second 
period, was made 011 Carnegie's fa­
mous “whizzer”. play, va trick, that will 
fool the host team In the country, 
when manipulated as only Beede can 
Work it.
Alonzo Stagg There.
Coaches there were from all over 
the East and Middlo West. Alonzo 
Stagg. the grand old man of Chicugo, 
occupied a seat in the upper tier. He 
had never soon Notre Dame lu action.
Andy Kerr, who is Pop Warner's as­
sistant at California, was also at. the 
game. The.Fighting Irish will oppose 
Pop's team Now Year's day in the 
Tournament of Roses at Pasadena, 
and Kerr was the special omlssary 
sent to Pittsburgh, his old homo, just 
to shoot, back first-hand information 
of the Fighting Irish plays.
Coach Clarence Spears of West. Vir­
ginia was 011 the Hold, and sat next to 
Hugo Bozdok, tho Penn State mentor. 
Neither Spearsmor Bozdok had lookod 
at this wonder team of Notro Dame in 
recent yonrs.
“Thoy lmvo plenty of power In their 
attack.” Bozdok commented.
“f only wish fay team was playing 
them today; wo could lmvo boaton 
thom,” was tho.daring stutomont of 
Spears.
Bob Zupplco of Illinois, who has 
glvon to tho football world Rod 
Grange, was also a spectator. Ho had 
no comment to make aftor tho game, 
but I10 praised the fight and spirit dis­
played by Carnoglo.
Carnoglo is ontltlod to all tho glory 
that goes with a three-touchdown 
showing against the host football 
team in tho country. Captain Ohio 
Newman, Cass and Chot J-Inblo playod 
tholr last game for the Plaid. Thoy 
simply covered themsolvos with glory, 
gavo all thoy had, and then somo.
It was asking tho Impossible for 
little Carnoglo to boat this groat 
Hoosior team. No other college has 
been a bio to turn the trlclc. In fact 
110 other team has boon able to scoro 
more than six points against the 
Fighting Irish all season, and fair- 
minded fans in the stands woro dis­
posed to glvo Carnoglo tho credit duo 
thom.
Harrisburg Clan Will 
Hold Dance and Dinner
Carnegie . Football Films Are 
a Special Attraction
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacquen School of Dnnclng 
Crnlg and Forbou Strootn 
Boginners Monday and Friday] 
overlings. , Advanced Thursday and I 
Saturday ovotyipgs. Private lessons] 
by appointment.
This Is a School—
Not a public' dance hall.
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5140 Near Forbeo
On Friday, January 2, tho Harris­
burg Clan will glvo a formal dinner 
dance at the Civic Club. Dinner will 
be servod at 7 o’clock, and the danc­
ing will be from 9 to 1, to the music 
of Black’s nine-pioco orcliostra. Any­
one from tho vicinity of Harrisburg, 
who has ever been connected with 
Carnegie is invited.
Stunts and speeches by alumni and 
students will be on the program. Also, 
n. special foature has boon planned to 
give those who could not attond the 
games this season tho thrill of seeing 
Carnegie's teani score on Notre Dam« 
and Pitt.
Richie Lowrie, Jr., is tho general 
chairman of the affair. The studont 
committee consists of Virginia L. 
Wallis of Harrisburg, chairman; Milo 
Matter of Harrisburg, Bill Manby of 
Lancaster, and Fred Rudislll of York.
There uro forty-five students now in 
Carnegio from ,n number of towns 
close to Harrisburg. Most of these 
are expected to attend, as well as tho 
membors .of -the Clan. The affair 
promises to bo very successful.
TELESCOPE
Tho Observer, whose duty is to 
focus The Telescope, failed this week 
to centor it on anything of import­
ance aud, as a result, is quoting some 
of tho oft-ropoated questions being 
asked on the campus today:
Going home for Christmas?
How did you like that banquet?
Did you onjoy tho Guild Carnival?
Whore did you get that lumbor-jack 
shirt?
What is a ball-bearing mouso trap 
with six lettors?
The answora, invariably, run on 
this ordor:
Yes, siroo! Friday ovoning, and you 
won’t soe mo again until January 5.
Oh. boy! Wasn’t that hot? Sure, I 
folt fine tho noxt morning, except X 
had a alight lioadacho.
Had a lino timo. Those wore good 
eats.
Why! Do you want, one? They 
sure are comfortable, and I think they 
look collegiate.
SEE MARTIN *
FOR GOOD THINGS TO HAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG 
M. PASQUINMLLI
Damon—
“Wliut did rrofo/iflor Smith nimm thin morning whoa ho told yo»
Unit 110 mini could over mull,« a 
nltk pumo out of u now 'it riirJ” 
Pythias—
"Ur in0(1 nt Hint T'd never ho nble to do good work with 11 poor pondi. G110/IU I'll lmvo lo got 11 ulxoa'n I'.ldoriKlo. Old Sinlly Miiyji lt*/i tho boit drawing pimeli »undo.’’
Sophmrpe
'Me master dmwûtÿpencUr
17 leads—all dr alarti
“In Te rns of
the Colossal”
Gititral Motors Ruilding 
D tiroir, Mir hi Ran
ALBERT P. KAHN, Architecc 
Drawn by Hugh Fcrms
OTIS
'¦pI-JP. co-ordination of commercial strength, nrch- 
¡teaiir.il vifiion and engineering skill which 
crcatcd this titanic quadruple office building repre­
sents the moiive nn<l creative force which has turned 
the cyca of the world toward this type of American 
architecture.
Thin, the liirgcsi office building in the world, port- 
flcsscs fundamentally magnificent largeness in its 
conccption, and a clean-cut directness in its execu­
tion which place it among the most significant oi 
American buildings.
With such existing structural achievements no arch­
itectural future is impossible, no project too vast 
or too complex to come readily to our imagination.
Certainly modern invention—modern engineering 
skill and organization, will prove more tnan equal 
to the demands of the architecture of the future.
ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
