Want to know what's hot in Pittsburgh - See page 2 for a dining guide 
For a listing of Educom Events - See page 4
The Tartan
Special Issue Carnegie Mellon University November 11,1986
Perfect Combo: Apple, Aldus and The Tartan
Thea rt nFomoml
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
From light tables, x-acto blades and long 
nights to state of the art software, 
Macintoshes and more sleep: such has been 
the transformation of The Tartan.
At the beginning of the semester, the 
student run newspaper swapped its two-year- 
old Compugraphic MCS 8400 typesetting 
system for a new system which permits the 
lay-out and printing of entire pages. The 
ability to see and design whole pages at 
once is an enormous improvement over the 
old system of printing out single articles 
and headlines and cutting and pasting them 
onto the page.
The Tartan puts out a 28-48 page issue 
every week. The new system, which uses 
the Pagemaker pagination program from 
Aldous, six Macintosh terminals connected 
on a MacServe network, shortens the 
production time of the issue considerably. 
Since all of the Tartan staff members, from 
the editors to the production and typesetting 
staffs, are full-time students here at 
Carnegie Mellon, any time-saving
From biology to bilingual 
wordprocessing, from logic to library 
research. Such was the range of software 
presented and demonstrated at the recent 
software fair held at Carnegie Mellon 
University.
The purpose of the recent fair was to 
encourage informal interaction among users 
and developers of the latest in software. 
Over 40 colleges and universities were 
represented at the fair and well over 100 
programs were demonstrated. The software 
fair was held in the Skibo Ballroom on the 
Carnegie Mellon Campus. It began on
Monday, November 10 and ran through 
today.
Major sponsors for the event were The 
Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation, 
Carnegie Mellon University and The
Western Pennsylvania Advanced
Technology Center, the software fair is the 
latest of a series of projects sponsored by 
the Benedum Regional College Computer 
Enrichment Program. This program,
which has been in existence for two years, 
concentrates on developing academic
computing within a league of small
colleges in western Pennsylvania and West 
Virginia.
The fair focused on low-cost educational 
software that run on microcomputers and is 
currently in use in undergraduate classes. 
Some of the courseware that was on display 
runs on advanced-function workstations, 
like the machines currently being used to 
implement the Andrew system here at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Among the participants in the fair who 
demonstrated software were Brown 
University, Cornell University, Dartmouth 
College, Hong Kong University, North 
Carolina State University, MIT, Stanford 
University, the University of Pittsburgh, 
Yale University, and the University of
development is an important one. The staff 
also has access to a Linotronic 300 
typeseter. This typesetter is the most 
sophisticated of its kind, with a mizimum 
resolution of 2540 dots per inch. Tartan 
output is at a resolution of 1250 dpi, still 
much higher than standard printing 
resolution.
In addition, using the network elimintates 
many of the previous problems with 
coordination between editors and 
typesetters. Headline writing, corrections 
and even major lay-out changes can all be 
handled directly and immediately by the 
section editors. The Compugraphic 
typesetter, because only two terminals were 
available for use at any one time, required 
that a request for corrections of headlines go 
through many different stages before finally 
being spit out of the typesetter. It was a 
rare occasion indeed when a headline came 
out unscathed.
Because lay-out is less time-consuming 
and the editors are much closer to their 
work, the new Apple system also affords 
Tartan editors more creativity in their lay-
Texas at Austin.
A number of machines were featured at 
the fair to run the exhibited software. The 
majority of programs were run on the 
IBM/PC, /RT, /XT, the Apple II or Mac 
Plus, but other machines included the 
Microvax II, the DEC VS-II, the Sony 
View System, and the AT&T 6300+.
A software exhibit will be continuing in 
Skibo Hall on Wednesday and Thursday of 
this week from 2-5 pm. Attendees may 
browse, run programs, and talk with 
developers. A cross section of disciplines 
will be represented including biological 
science, chemistry, computer science, 
English, mathematics, history, 
philosophy/logic, physics and psychology.
Also demonstrated from the Center for 
Design of Educational computing will be 
the CMU Tutor authoring environment and 
programs developed by undergraduates in 
the CDEC Scholarship program. The Inter- 
University Consortium for Educational 
Computing (ICEC) members, whose
principal goal is to develop high-quality 
educational applications for advanced 
function workstations, will be 
demonstrating the programs they developed 
for the workstations using the CMU Tutor.
Members of ICEC are: Brown University, 
Carnegie Mellon University, Columbia 
University, Darmouth College, Iona
College, Mills College, Southwestern 
college Chula Vista, University of 
Michigan, Vassar College, Online
Computer Library Center, Inc., California 
State Northridge, City University of New 
York, Cornell University, Howard 
University, MIT, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Stanford University, University 
of California Berkeley, University of 
Wisconsin Madison, EDUCOM, Research 
Libraries Group, Inc.
out. Options like changing column widths, 
changing point size or leading, or 
wrapping text around photos or 
illustrations are now readily available to 
editors and ad designers. Previously such 
unconventional lay-outs demanded more 
time than a student is willing to put in for 
one eye-catching effect. Furthermore, the 
two laser writers in the office allow for full 
tabloid-size proofs of each page before 
printing on the Lintotronic, taking the 
suspense and guess work out of page 
design. Another advantage to this system is 
that laser writer output can be used instead 
of linotronic output for late-breaking news 
or major mistakes that may be discovered 
after the pages come back from the 
Linotronic. Because most students at 
Carnegie Mellon are familiar with 
Macintosh or IBM/PC word-processing, 
most writers now hand in articles on disk, 
saving even more time. A connection 
between the IBM/PC and the Apple 
network enables MS-DOS formatted text 
files on an IBM disk to be translated using 
the Kermit program.
the majority of ads that have art work or 
photographs in them are submitted camera- 
ready and simply waxed and pasted down on 
the Linotronic output. It would be possible 
to digitize these images and have them 
printed out with the section files, but this 
would slow down the Linotronic printing 
process considerably. Because of the high 
resolution of the Linotronic output,
Are computers bringing about the birth 
of a second industrial revolution? Carnegie 
Mellon's Nobel Prize winner, Herbert A. 
Simon, believes that super computers, 
personal computers, and networks indeed 
represent an impetus for a revolution in 
human thinking.
With a speech entitled "Why the Steam 
Engine Was Revolutionary," Simon will 
address the EDUCOM Conference in the
printing images is an extremely time 
consuming process.
Admittedly, the changeover has not been 
completely problem-free. Rather than 
phasing-out the Compugraphic section by 
section as was recommended by 
administrative advisors, the Tartan staff 
decided to go cold turkey. Entertainment 
Editor, Bruce Kasrel, and the Editor-in- 
Chief worked rather extensively over the 
summer, and Kasrel became the resident 
expert on the Pagemaker program. The 
entire staff had only been back from 
summer vacation for one week, when the 
first issue date came up. It was a very 
inexperienced staff that produced the first 
issue with the new system. But 
inexperience considered, the staff performed 
competently and enthusiastically. Aside 
from the News section crashing at 2 AM, 
because of incompatibility between the 
system and finder folders which rendered the 
file inaccessible, the mishaps were few and 
minor. The first news section was decidedly 
anemic, but what happens the first week of 
school anyway?
Future improvements planned for The 
Tartan include plans to integrate large- 
screen Macintoshes instead of the normal 
MacPlusses currently in use. The large- 
screens will allow editors to proof entire 
tabloid-size pages at 70% actual size. With 
the machines currently in use, only small 
areas of a page can be viewed at actual size 
at one time.
Hilton Ballroom Wednesday Morning, to 
wrap up the Opening Session.
The Industrial Revolution is often 
attrictued to the steam engine. Of course, 
the real cause was not the steam engine, 
but the whole train of ideas it set in motion 
for using non-human energy to do the 
world's work. Supercomputers, personal 
computers and networks, posits Simon.
Continued on page 4
CMU Hosts Software Fair
Simon to address EDUCOM

---------------------------------------------------

Page E2 - The Tartan - November 11,1986
Letters of Welcome for EDUCOM '86 
...from the desk of the Governor
GREETINGS:
As Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, I am pleased to extend 
warm regards to all those who are attending EDUCOM '86, sponsored by 
Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh.
Pennsylvania is proud to host this conference, which will showcase the 
importance of computer science to higher education. We are pleased that 
participants representing colleges and universities from throughout the 
country will attend this conference and share significant ideas and 
information with one another.
I hope that, during your stay, you will have the opportunity to enjoy 
some of the many scenic, cultural and historic attractions the Keystone 
State has to offer. I am sure that you will learn firsthand what we mean 
when we say, "You've Got a Friend in Pennsylvania!"
Best wishes for an informative and enjoyable conference.
...from the desk of the mayor
I am pleased to extend a most cordial welcome to all those
participating in the EDUCOM '86 Conference being held in America’s Most 
Livable City.
It is most appropriate that such an important Conference show-casing 
the innovations in computer applications be held in Pittsburgh - a city 
that is making significant strides in high technology development. 
Several weeks ago, ground was broken for the Pittsburgh Technology
Center. Just as scientists work to create new products and processes to 
improve our quality of life, the Technology Center represents our own 
efforts to create work environments that can draw companies from the 
Pittsburgh area and throughout the nation and, in the process
substantially improve this region's economic future.
Pittsburgh takes pride in the progress it has made over the past four 
decades and I hope that you will find time to view some of our many
achievments.
I am sure your stay in our City will be pleasant and memorable and I 
invite you to return again soon.Very truly yours,
RICHARD GALfGUIRI
...from the desk of the County 
Commissioner
Dear Conferee:
I want to extend my warmest greetings to you as a participant in the 
EDUCOM'8 6 Conference being held at the Pittsburgh Hilton Hotel.
As Chairman of the Board of Allegheny County Commissioners, I have had 
on numerous occasions, the pleasure or working with the various 
educational institutions of higher learning within our County. In 
addition, the Allegheny County Commissioners are directly responsible for 
the administration and funding of the Allegheny County Community College, 
the enrollment of which totals nearly 80,000 full and part time 
students.
Also, in an attempt to address the difficulties we have been 
encountering the the demise of industrialized economy in Southwestern 
Pennsylvania, a cooperative relationship was recently forged between the 
County, the City of Pittsburgh, the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie 
Mellon University, designed to assist in transforming the economy of our 
region as it enters the 21st Century. A major part of this effort, was a 
request for State funding to develop an abandoned Pittsburgh/J-& L Site 
into the Pittsburgh Technology Center, to take advantage of the site's 
proximity to the Pittsburgh Golden Triangle and our many corporate 
headquarters as well as the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon 
University.
This development will capitalize on the demonstrated leadership of our 
universities in areas such as computer software, robotics, and 
biomedical engineering. Recently the State of Pennsylvania approved 
funding in excess of $40 million to prepare the site for development and 
for the construction of a Western Pennsylvania Biotechnology 
Manufacturing Center to be administered by the University of Pittsburgh 
as well as the National Center for Advanced Manufacturing and Software 
Engineering to be administered by Carnegie Mellon University.
Ground was broken on this site for the establishment of these 
facilities on October 10, 1986 . I believe that this venture is an
indication of the public and private commitment in our region to explore 
expanding opportunities for educational advancement made possible by new 
developments in research and technology.
I welcome you to Allegheny County, and know that you will find our 
County both hospitable towards your personal and professional needs, and 
a fitting environment to discuss pioneering computer applications 
higher education.Very truly yjj,
in
Local Movie Scene
By BRUCE KASREL
Diversions Editor 
Once all the speeches are done 
for the day, why not try dinner 
and a movie? There are plenty of 
fine restaurants in the city (see 
page 3) and there are just as 
many exceptional films to be 
had. Here is a rundown of all the 
films that are easily accessible 
from the Downtown/Oakland 
area.
Tai-Pan (Fulton Mini-
Downtown): A lavish production 
about the the beginnings of 
Hong Kong, the film is more 
aptly titled “Gone With the Wind 
meets Shogun.” Just about every­
thing in the movie is blown way 
out of proportion. The ads for 
the movie point to the “imposs­
ible” romance between the Eng­
lish merchant prince Tai-Pan 
(Bryan Brown) and his slave girl 
Mame (Joan Chen). Supposedly 
it is breaking centuries of tradit­
ion, but all we get are slightly 
erotic sex scenes. For its his­
torical value, the movie is quite 
interesting. This is the first 
major motion picture shot in 
mainland China. Based on James 
Clavell's bestselling novel, the 
movie is paced similar to his
moves along at a brisk pace and the 
final showdown in Atlantic City is 
exhilarating. This might be the film 
for which Newman finally wins the 
Oscar which has eluded him for so 
long.
Peggy Sue Got Married (Mannor- 
Squirrel Hill): Finally, audiences get 
a chance to see Kathleen Turner in a 
serious role. She stars as a 40-ish 
mother who is going through a pain­
ful separation. At her 25th Class 
reunion she is sent back in time to 
her days as a teenager. Faced with 
the choice of changing her destiny or 
repeating her mistake, Turner is near­
ly flawless in this difficult role. 
Physically her looks allow her 
(perhaps the only actress who could) 
to pull off the dual parts, and her 
acting skills carry the rest. Nicolas 
Cage is quite good as the no-good- 
husband-to-be. The only problem 
with the movie is the fact that di­
rector Francis Coppola never bothers 
to recognize the scientific aspect of 
the film. Sure this is a film about 
character, but come on Mr. Coppela, 
please, she just faints and travels 
back in time? Gee. Back to the Fu­
ture, no matter how much a fantasy, 
made sense. This may seem like a 
minor point, but when coupled with 
the sloppy ending you'll leave the
Kathleen Turner before she travels in time in Peggy Sue
miniseries of a few years past If 
you enjoyed Shogun and willing 
to pay to see a clone of it then 
Tai-Pan is for you, otherwise go 
see something more original.
The Color of Money (Kings 
Court-Oakland): Although a
sequel of sorts to the 1961 class­
ic The Hustler, this movie is 
highly original. Paul Newman 
recreates his Oscar-nominated 
role of Fast Eddie Felson, the 
pool hustler who got dealt the 
wrong end of the pool cue. He’s 
once again hitting the pool halls 
of America, but this time he has 
a secret weapon - a sidekick, hot 
shot pure pool player named Vin­
cent Lauria. Felson takes Lauria 
(Tom Cruise) under his wing and 
teaches him the art of the hustle. 
The film is filled with wonerful 
scenes of Felson discussing the 
meaning of life in terms of pool 
balls. Both Cruise and Newman 
are brilliant in their roles and, 
once the story gets rolling, both 
are so effective it is impossible 
to take sides. Director Martin 
Scorsese filmed the pool hall 
sequences with just about every 
interesting camera angle and 
effect imaginable. The result is 
pool shots which are smooth, 
stylish, and entertaining. Net 
only are the pool balls and the 
men manipulating them engross­
ing, but also Lauria’s street 
smart girlfriend, Carmen (Mary 
Elizabeth Mastrantonio) shines 
in a supporting role. The film
theatre baffled. Despite this major 
flaw, Turner's stellar performance 
makes this one a worthwhile even­
ing.
Crocodile Dundee (Forward Ave- 
Squirrel Hill): Paul Hogan, Aus­
tralia's most popular entertainer, is 
best known here for his tourism 
commericals. This riotously hillari- 
ous comedy will change the way we 
view Hogan in a mighty hurry. He 
plays a croc poacher from the out­
back who is coaxed into coming 
over to the jungle of Manhattan. Al­
though this formula of using an 
outsider to poke fun at our society, 
but Hogan’s charming personality 
makes this one one of the best.
Children of a Lesser God (Forward 
Ave): Perhaps the finest movie deal­
ing with the handicapped ever made. 
William Hurt puts in yet another 
Oscar- cailiber performance as a deaf 
school teacher. He instantly falls for 
a past student (Marlee Matlin) now 
working in silence as the school's 
janitor. Probably the most remark­
able aspect of Matlin’s performance 
is that she really is deaf. She com­
municates the hardships of the deaf 
in a sensative, sharp, and sometimes 
funny manner. She moves from a 
smolderingly sexy kid to a mature 
woman with amazing ease. To out­
shine Hurt is no easy task, but some­
how she does it. When to two are on­
screen together sparks fly, as well 
they should since they arc having a 
real-life romance. One of the best ot 
the year.

---------------------------------------------------

November 11,1986 - The Tartan - Page E3
Pittsburgh: Where to Eat, What to See in the City
By LISA D. MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
While in Pittsburgh, the perfect ending to 
a full day of attending seminars, 
demonstrating your company's new 
software or taking in the lectures of 
educational computing experts and public 
figures is to explore and enjoy some of the 
fine opportunities for eating, shopping and 
being entertained offered by the Steel City.
From the old to the new, the run-down to 
the renovated, Pittsburgh affords a unique 
blend of atmosphere and architecture. If it's 
chic that you’re looking for while in 
Pittsburgh, the city contains several areas 
where classy boutiques and exquisite dining 
are the order of the day.
STATION SQUARE
Located across the Monongahela River 
from the downtown area, Station Square 
was formerly the main train station serving 
the city, but a recent renovation tranformed 
it into a haven for exclusive shops and 
some of the best restaurants around. If 
you're headed out for lunch or dinner, the 
old train station is a wise choice. 
Restaurants offer a wide variety of food 
from Mexican at Tequila Junction on 
the second level to ribs at Bobby 
Ribino's or just plain good at the Grand 
Concourse. Most of the restaurants in 
Station Square are moderately priced, except 
for the Grand Concourse, which may 
represent a more sizable investment, but 
it's worth it for the sea food or the Sunday 
brunch, if you'll be in town that long.
Other restaurants in Station Square 
deserving mention: The Cheese Cellar, 
a cozy establishment specializing in cheese 
dishes. The cheddar and beer fondue and the 
chocolate fondue are delicious and a good 
deal. Houlihan's is also a good deal, with 
entrees ranging from the traditional steak to 
the more adventurous dishes in the cajun 
style from New Orleans. Amazing Grace, 
located on the upper level near Tequila 
Junction is a slice of good ol' apple pie 
Americana. Literally. The memorable apple 
pie, a specialty of this quaint eatery, makes 
this a good choice for dessert, if you miss 
the fondue at The Cheese Cellar. The 
Gandy Dancer Saloon, attached to the 
Grand Concourse restaurant is a favorite 
among many Pittsburghers for its fun, turn 
of the century atmosphere and good 
munchies.
Station Square also offers a couple of the 
classiest night clubs in the city, including 
Chauncy's and Mr. C's, which is 
located in the Sheraton Hotel adjoining 
Staion Square proper. Both of these are chic 
clubs, which attract Pittsburgh’s booming 
yuppie crowd of young and well-dressed 
professionals. If you’re headed out for an 
evening in one of these clubs, dress 
appropriately.
Among the shops housed beneath the 
high and still rafter-supported roof are 
Laura Ashley and Rodier boutiques, a 
choclatier, a shop specializing in Icelandic 
wool sweaters, and many other specialty 
shops. Even if your budget is limited, it's 
worth an hour just to walk around and 
window shop in the lovely atmosphere of 
the old train station, especially if you'll be 
eating here anyway.
MOUNT WASHINGTON
Also across the Monongahela from 
downtown is Mount Washington. Located 
on the very edge of the Mount is 
Grandview Avenue. Grandview could be 
more accurately named Restaurant Row. 
There are plenty of establishments 
capitalizing on the stunning view of the 
city afforded by the proximity of the 
mountain to downtown.
If you wallet is not your main concern, 
then head on up to Grandview Avenue for 
at least one of your dinners while you’re in 
the city. Christopher’s, The 
Georgetowne Inne, The Tin Angel,
and La Mont are all situated to maximize 
the view of the city. Christopher's is 
probably the most celebrated of restaurants 
on Mount Washington. It is also the most 
over-priced, but it's got prime real estate up 
there and the view is spectacular. The 
Georgetowne is nice, and also has a great 
view, but can get a little noisy, leading to a 
nerve-wracking dinner. If you eat there, 
make reservations for the lower floor, the 
noise level is a little more in control there. 
The Tin Angel is quickly becoming a 
favorite of many natives, and is a little off 
the beaten track. La Mont offers, 
predictably, French Cuisine, and is 
similarly well-spoken of by many 
Pittsburghers who appreciate fine dining.
If you want to dine on Mount 
Washington, which is highly 
recommended, best to made reservationsa
just to be sure to get a choice table near the 
window, and head up there before dusk, so 
that you can watch darkness descend on the 
Golden Triangle. The lights coming up on 
the three rivers is definitely a sight to 
behold.
ONE OXFORD CENTRE
Conveniently located in downtown 
Pittsburgh on Grant Street, Oxford Centre 
is one of the city's newest high-rise office 
and shopping complexes.
Missing at least a glance around Oxford 
Centre while in Pittsburgh would be a real 
loss. This architecturally beautiful structure 
of glass, chrome, and aluminum contains a 
Gucchi shop, a Ralph Lauren shop and 
many expensive clotes and perfume 
boutiques. A couple of the restaurants also 
deserve comment.
The Wine Restaurant, the only one 
of its kind in the city, is a wine-lover's 
paradise. Featuring an extensive wine 
cellar, this beautiful restaurant features a 
chic atmosphere and good, light food. It's 
pretty expensive.
Harper's, located on the lower level of 
Oxford Centre, gets the Tartan vote for one 
of the best restaurants in the city. Offering 
a cool, comfortable, yet very classy 
atmosphere, meticulously prepared food and 
drink (the strawberry daquiries are great), a 
hand-picked staff, and most importantly, 
Walt Harper himself. Owner and proprietor 
of the restaurant, Harper is not only a 
fantastic individual and businessman, he is 
the best musician around in Pittsburgh. If 
you'll still be in town on the 14th or 15th, 
you can catch the show "Ain't
Misbehavin'" at 7:30 both nights, and Walt 
Harper and his band, All That Jazz, at 9:30. 
Make reservations for show nights, and if 
you can, take in one of the performances, 
by this fine jazz pianist. You won't regret 
it.
PPG PLACE
Another of Pittsburgh's newest 
architectural stand-outs is the conspicuous 
Gothic-style glass sky-scraper built by the 
Pittsburgh Plate Glass company. The 
building is actually six interconnected 
builidings which spread around Market 
Square. Located in the middle of the city, 
this is another good option for eating and 
shopping. But don't plan on this place for 
dinner, because the restaurants are of the 
take-out variety well-suited to the harried 
businessperson. It's a good place to pick up
some soup and a sandwich or maybe some 
pizza. You can eat at the patio style table 
set up in the courtyard of the lower level of 
PPG, or you can just take it with you. 
PPG does have some beautiful shops worth 
taking a look at, and the Winter Garden 
located in the section of PPG facing the 
Boulevard of the Allies is a lovely 
sculpture-and-plant-filled courtyard, perfect 
for an afternoon or evening stroll.
SHADYSIDE
If you plan to be on the campus of either 
the University of Pittsburgh or Carnegie 
Mellon in the afternoon, you may want to 
check out Walnut Street in Shadyside. It's 
another of those well-kempt, expensive 
little lanes featuring lovely cafes and 
exclusive shops. If you're looking for 
excellent Chinese food the Szechuan 
Gourmet, on Bellefonte near Walnut, is 
just what you're looking for. In a clean, 
quiet atmosphere, it offers a wide variety of 
Chinese dishes at a moderate price. The 
best dishes are the ones made in the 
Szechuan style. Originally from the 
Szechuan district of China, this food is hot 
and spicy, so order a glass of water or two 
and enjoy. A couple of restaurants which 
are again favorites among yuppies are 
Brendan's and The Balcony. Located 
right across Walnut Street from one 
another, they are both nice and you can get 
a nice lunch for about $8. And if you’ve 
got a car and a few minutes, take a short 
drive around the area on your way back to 
campus or downtown and get a look at 
some of the gorgeous homes in Shadyside.
...AND THE OTHER 
PITTSBURGH
Early on, Pittsburgh gained the reputation 
of being an industrial hub with many 
tenacious ethnic subcultures. Fortunately, 
not all of Pittsburgh's ethnicity and historic 
charm has been diluted by the move toward 
the high-tech modernity found in many 
areas.
Two recommendations for where to find 
the best traditional Pittsburgh flavor are the 
South Side and the "Strip District."
The South Side, across and down the Mon 
River a bit towards Oakland, is the area 
surrounding the Steel Mills that were the 
life blood of Pittsburgh for so long. With 
the demise of the steel industry, this area 
also sunk into decay. But recent efforts to 
renovate the area, have cleaned it up 
without comrpomising the atmosphere so
intricately woven into the narrow streets 
and victorian buildings.
The Strip District, located along the 
Allegheny River on Penn Avenue, houses 
the cit's wharves, where shipments of fresh 
seafood from all over the world are still 
brought in. The area has lots of interesting 
little cut-rate shops and exotic food stores.
Benkowitz's is a good choice for 
getting a bite to eat in the Strip. They have 
a stand-up oyster bar which can get 
crowded, but it's worth the risk for deep 
fried oysters and fish sandwiches.
Primanti Brothers' is another 
Pittsburgh favorite located in the Strip. 
Legendary at Primanti's are the sandwiches 
with the cole slaw and french fries, usually 
side dishes, plopped right in the middle of 
the sandwich. Primanti's also has a 
restaurant on Forbes Avenue in Oakland 
(the heart of University of Pittsburgh 
territory), but for the original head to the 
Strip.
GETTING AROUND TOWN AND 
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
Last spring brought the opening of a 
subway system in downtown Pittsburgh. 
The service is not very extensive yet, but 
in certain cases it can get you where you 
want to go. There are three underground 
stations in the downtown area. One is 
located by the U.S. Steel Building (called 
Steel Plaza Station); the second is at Sixth 
and Wood Streets (called Wood Street 
Station), and the third is near Gateway 
Center on Forbes Avenue, just through 
Market Sqaure and across the street fromcontinued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Educom Events
TUESDAY
Registration Open
8:00 a.m.-10:30 p.m. 
Ballroom Foyer
Software Initiative Task Force Meeting
8:00 a.m.-5:30 p.m.
Duquesne
EDUCOM Office Open
8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
King's Plaza
Preconference 
Events
Software Fair
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Carnegie Mellon University —Skibo Hall 
(continued from Monday)
Admission is free. Sponsors are the 
Benedum Begional College Computer 
Enrichment Program, Western
Pennsylvania Advanced Technology Center, 
and Carnegie Mellon University.
Free bus transportation from the Hilton to 
CMU. Buses depart from the Hilton on the 
half-hour beginning at 9:30 a.m.;
departures from CMU's Skibo Hall are on 
the hour, last departure at 5:00 p.m.
Half-Day Seminars 
Managing the Transition to 
Personal Computers: Distribution
and Maintenance
1:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m.
King's Garden North 
Bill SholarAssociate Director, Computing Center 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Installing and supporting thousands of 
small computers represents a new challenge 
to the computing center: high-volume 
assembly and distribution, triage 
maintenance, the business issues of price 
protection, inventory, warranty 
reimbursements, and operation of a 
multimillion dollar cost recovery program.
Local Area Networks for Colleges
and Universities
King's Garden South
Robert Barden
Vice President
Interactive Networks, Inc.
Local area network alternatives for campus 
applications; management, cost, and long- 
range planning issues; LAN technology; 
network costs and management issues; 
implementing a university LAN.
GRAND: Computer Conferencing
in a Network Environment 
Le Bateau 
Benjamin Klein
Executive Director, University Computing
Center
CUNY
Patricia J. Reber 
Director of User Services 
CUNY
GRAND, a computer-based conferencing 
system currently being tested over 
BITNET, allows distributed conferencing 
across a number of computers on a 
network; history and development of user 
programs for interacting with the system; 
plans for its use in BITNET; technical 
specifications.Welcome for New EDUCOM Members
4:00-6:00 p.m.
Ballroom 1
EDUCOM trustees, Membership
Committee members, and staff answer 
questions and discuss membership benefits 
for new member institutions. Followed by 
an informal recetption.
Corporate Demo Rooms Open
5:00-10:30 p.m.
AT&T
BallroomApple Computer, Inc.
Brigade Bell Atlantic
BallroomComputer Data Networks, Inc. representing TradeNET(sm)
BallroomCorvusvus Systems, Inc.
Rivers DDigital Equipment Corporation
Traders CHughes Aircraft Company
Rivers EInterlink Computer Sciences, Inc.
BallroomIBM Corporation
ChartiersJoiner Associates Inc.
BallroomPrime Computer Incorporated
BallroomRacal-Vadic, Inc.
Black DiamondRelational Technology, Inc.
BallroomSun Microsustems, Inc.
BallroomUngermann-Bass, Inc.
BallroomThe WATCOMGroup
BallroomEDUCOM Networking Activi­tiesBallroom
Hospitality Suites Open
5:00-10:30 p.m.
Reception
7:00-10:30 p.m.
Ballroom 2 and Ballroom Foyer 
All conferees are invited to the gala 
reception in the Hilton, where EDUCOM 
Corporate Associates are demonstrating 
state-of-the-art software and hardware. 
Refreshments make alternate dining plans 
unnecessary.
EDUCOM Council Meeting
8:00-9:15 p.m.
King's Garden North and South, LeBateau 
EDUCOM Institutional Representatives or 
designated proxies are invited to participate; 
others are welcome to observe. Business 
includes introduciton of Acting President 
Designate, financial report, project updates, 
introduction of nominees, election, and 
discussion.
WEDNESDAY AM
Registration Open
7:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.
Ballroom Foyer
Breakfast Buffet, Hosted by CODEX
7:00-9:00 a.m.
Kings Garden & Le Bateau
Corporate Demo Area Open
8:30 a.m.-6:00 p.m.
Please see page 33 for complete listing.
Hospitality Suites Open
8:30 a.m.-6:00 p.m.
Please see page 38 complete listing.
Opening Session
9:00-10:30 a.m.
Ballroom 1 & 2
Introduction: William Y. Arms
Chairman of the Board, EDUCOM
Welcome to Pittsburgh
The Honorable Richard S. Cliguiri 
Mayor of Pittsburgh
“A Welcome to Pittsburgh”
A multi-image slide show highlights the 
communities, facilities, and people of “The 
Most Livable City in the United States.” 
Courtesy Bell of PA, a Bell Atlantic 
Company.
Why the Steam Engine was Revolutionary
Herbert A. Simon 
Nobel Laureate 
Carnegie Mellon University
Simon, the Richard King Mellon 
University Professor of computer sciences 
and psychology at Carnegie Mellon 
University, received the Nobel Prize in 
economic sciences in 1978. He has 
authored and co-authored numerous books 
including Organizations, The Sciences of 
the Artificial, and Reason in Human 
Affairs.
Recipient of the A.M. Turing Award in 
1975 from the Association for Computing 
Machinery, Simon is one of the world's 
leading authorities on human decision 
making and artificial intelligence.
Coffee Break, Hosted by IBM
10:30-11:15 a.m.
Ballroom Foyer
Concurrent Sessions I
11:15-12:15 p.m.
The 25 concurrent sessions in five time 
periods are organized in six tracks: 
Software, Impact and Evaluation, 
Networking, Libraries, Key Issues, and 
Video.
Providing AcademicInformation Services
Ballroom 1 (Libraries)
William Y. Arms
Vice President for Academic Services 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Patricia Battin
Vice President & University Librarian
Columbia University
(moderator)
Malcolm Getz
Associate Provost for Information Services
& Technology 
Vanderbilt University
C.F. Kyle
Deputy Director, Computer Center
Vanderbilt University
Thomas J. Michalak
Director, University Libraries
Carnegie Mellon University
Integrated campuswide information services
that combine traditional library
activities—acquiring, storing, and
disseminating information—and computing 
center activities—helping faculty and staff 
use resources. Organizational and 
educational impacts.
Simon to Speak
Continued from page 1
will initiate the Second Industrial 
Reovlution we all talk about, if they 
produce a similar burst of imagination - in 
this case ideas about how human thinking 
and learning processes can be understood 
and imporved, and how machines can 
collaborate with people in solvin 
gproblems, making decisions, teaching and 
learning and running organizations. "The 
hardware is here," states Simon. "How long 
will it take to use it?"
Simon is Richard King Mellon 
University Professor of Computer Science 
and Psychology at Carnegie Mellon 
University, where he has taught since 
1949. During the past thirty years he has 
been studying decision-making and problem­
solving processes, using computers to 
simulate human thinking. He has published 
over 600 papers and 20 books.
Educated at the University of Chicago, his 
work has been recognized by honororay 
degrees from a number of universities.
He was elected to the National Academy 
of Sciences in 1967. He has received awards 
for his research from the American 
Psychological Association, the Association 
for Computing Machinery, the American 
Political Science Association, the 
American Economic Association, and the 
Institute of Electrical and Electronic 
Engineers. He received the Alfred Nobel 
Memorial Prize in Economics in 1978, and 
the National Medal of Science in 1986.
He has been Chairman of the Board of 
Directors of the Social Science Research 
Council, and of the behavioral Science 
Division of the National Research Council 
, and was a member of the President's 
Science Advisory Committee.
Restaurant ReviewsContinued from page 3
MacDonald’s (called Gateway Station).
The really useful part of the subway 
route, however, is that boarding a car at any 
of these stations can get you to Station 
Square, hassle free, for 600. No matter how 
you look at it, that's cheaper than paying 
parking at Station Square, and depending on 
how much practive you've had driving in 
Pittsburgh, it may be much easier. This 
city has a reputation of being something of 
a driving adventure. Encountering 
unexpected construction and one way streets 
is a common occurence. So take your time 
and know where you're going before you 
head out DON'T necessarily depend on 
the signs to get you where you want to go. 
The sign system here is not what you'd call 
thorough or expensive.
Generally speaking, Pittsburgh is a safe 
city, with not too many crime problems. A 
word of caution, however, is to stay out of 
Point State Park after dark. If you have the 
time, do take a walk down the "the point", 
where the three rivers meet, making the 
geography of Pittsburgh famous. Just don't 
do it after dark. In past years, problems 
with muggings have caused city police to 
step up patrols in this area, but you're still 
better safe than sorry, and we want your 
stay in Pittsburgh to be an enjoyable one.
---------------------------------------------------------THE TARTAN wishes to thank], APPLE COMPUTERS fc»j technical support and help ini producing the EDUCOM issues. W<*' \ also thank them for underwriting the cost of the printing.
