Volume 89, Issue 11Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190G21 November 1994
News
Cab Callaway 
passes away at 86 
• see page 2
Diversions
Explore Pittsburgh’s 
musical offerings • 
see page LI
Sports
Men’s basketball 
opens with a win 
see page 9
Our final issue of the 
semester will come 
out December 5, due 
to Thanksgiving
Calendar...
Ciassfied...Comics...Diversions.Features...Forum....Sports......VoxPopuH..
Board of Trustees votes 
to increase endowment
Plan hopes to raise $300 to $500 million
Declan McCullagh, 
Student Govern- 
. ment President,
]' said that the Cen-
¡Jim \ I tennial Campaign
1®^'' -jp- ; Hi 1 for Carnegie MellonjjflK “should bring our
endowment in line 
with that of our
Past campaigns 
"v' have raised $100
• million from 1977-
mA (PmM 1983 and $229 mil-
J | ill lion from 1986 -
1991. The Centen- 
Vo .¦ ¦ ill | j nial Campaign for
j Carnegie Mellon, or
^0r S^0rt’«gfe count funds from
lum July 1, 1994, until
.< November15,2000.
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor Accor dingto 
tively. According to Eric John- McCullagh, “This is the largest 
son, vice president for Develop- capital campaign in our history.” 
ment, “our small endowment Although the goal for the cam- 
makes us less competitive.” See ENDOWMENT, page 3
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last Monday, November 14, 
Carnegie Mellon’s Board of Trust­
ees voted to commence the Cen­
tennial Campaign for Carnegie 
Mellon in order to raise between $300 and $500 million. The fund­
raising campaign is expected to 
last approximately six years and 
will culminate November 15, 2000, the centennial anniversary 
of Carnegie Mellon.
CMITs current endowment is 
$415 million, which is about 
$63,000 per student. From 
Carnegie Mellon’s 10 chief com­
petitors for faculty and students, 
only two out of the 10 have a 
lower endowment per student. 
Among Carnegie Mellon’s princi­
pal competitors are MIT, Stanford 
University, and the University of 
Chicago which have endowments 
per student of $183,000, 
$219,000, and $118,000 respec-
Committee discusses censorshipStudents charged with 
reckless endangerment
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
Koscelnik, legal counsel, and Dean of 
Student Affairs Michael Murphy.
The committee had a set agenda dur­
ing which certain members reported on 
topics. This first meeting of the commit­
tee focused first on background and gen­
eral information. Arms explained meth­
ods of accessing netnews bboards, and 
the committee went over material such 
as their mission statement and the rea­
sons for their current concern. They were 
also presented with other material like 
examples from sexually explicit bboards 
and reading material on legal consider­
ations and articles on the issue from the 
media.
During the meeting, the committee 
did come to some decisions involving 
their plan of action. One was how the 
committee was going to interact with 
the rest of the campus community. This 
first meeting was closed to reporters 
from The Tartan and the Associated 
Press.
The decision was made that anyone on 
campus who would like to communicate 
their thoughts and ideas to the commit­
tee should do so to a member of the 
committee. Also, the committee agreed 
to release minutes of their meetings to 
the official.cmu-news bboard.
The next two meetings will be held
Tuesday, November 22, and Thursday, 
December 1. The issue of CMU and 
bboard censorship has since taken to the 
national media with articles appearing 
in The Washington Post, and Time maga­
zine. This committee will be making 
recommendations to President 
Mehrabian on the bboards, and if you 
want to express your opinion to them, 
contact one of the committee members.
Some of what was discussed at the 
meeting was made available from a 
member of the committee. Steinberg 
brough up a point that although three 
sets of bboards were eliminated from the 
net, students can obtain them from other 
sources. The point was brought up that 
any authorized user can read any of the 
bboards on the net, with the exception of 
the moderated bboards.
The committee saw many of the objec­
tionable materials on the censored 
bboards. The final mission statement 
for the committee is, “The committee 
will make specific bboard storage and 
online policy recommendations as ap­
propriate to the University President.” 
President Mehrabian still has to ap­
prove it.
Last week, during an emergency Stu­
dent Senate meeting on the bboard cen­
sorship situation, a committee was cre­
ated to advise President Mehrabian on 
future policy. On Wednesday, Novem­
ber 16, the committee held its first meet­
ing to make recommendations on sexu­
ally explicit bboards.
The committee, as stated by Senate, is 
comprised of faculty, staff, and stu­
dents. However, only two students serve 
on the committee, Declan McCullagh, 
Student Government President, and Tim 
Mallo, the president of the Graduate 
Student Organization. Erwin Steinberg, 
the vice provost of Education, as well as 
a professor in the English Department, 
chairs the committee which includes: 
Harry Paxton, chairman of the Faculty 
Senate, Edmond Ko, vice chairman of 
jthe Educational Affairs Committee, John 
McDowell, chairman of the Staff Coun­
cil, and Staff Council member, Kary 
Myers. There are also five ex-officio mem­
bers of the committee: Barbara Smith, 
assistant vice president for Human Re­
sources, Charles Lowry, a University 
Librarian, William Arms, vice president 
for Computing Services, Jackie
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan News Editor
Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia, was a shuttle stop.
He said that Pittsburgh Police had 
been investigating the situation for 
awhile.
After a CMU professor was hit, the 
police surveyed the scene and ana­
lyzed the angle of the BBs, tracing 
them to senior’s apartment, where 
the window was open and the screen 
was pulled out.
The students were told by their law­
yer not to comment on the situation. 
They used a BB gun for the attacks, 
“It was an air rifle with a scope,” 
Kilkeary said, “A pump air rifle that 
shoots a very powerful BB.”
The pump makes the weapon very 
dangerous.
“You could kill a rabbit or small 
game [with the gun],” said LaPaglia 
“It could cause some serious damage 
to a human.”
There were no serious cases re­
ported, although one person was hos­
pitalized and a BB broke the skin of 
another victim.
Two seniors were arrestegl last week 
for shooting their BB gun out their 
apartment window at Negley Ave.
The students admitted to hitting 
approximately 12 people, according to 
Detective John Kilkeary of the Pitts­
burgh Police Department. “They’re 
charged with shooting people from 
their apartment window on Negley 
Ave,” he said.
Officially the two students have been 
charged with five counts of agravated 
assault, five counts of recklessly en­
dangering another person, and crimi­
nal conspiracy.
Kilkeary said that a possible sen­
tence for aggravated assault was 10 — 
20 years but, “This is their first of­
fense, I doubt very much if there will 
be jail time.”
He did add however, “It’s a serious 
offense and [these guys] are in a lot of 
trouble.”
The site of the attacks, according to[Ed. Note: Tartan News Editor Ed­
ward Hayes contributed to this article]
Construction on CFA continues
Renovations should be finished by December
BY MAX CHITTISTER
Tartan Staffwriter
Th®al- IjFTS '^rations ' \\$l,0 the ex- i
^nor of ^ 'V'
According to Senior Construc- 
Manager Joe Greenaway, the 
instruction will occur in three 
>hases. Phase One, which began 
& September, included the reset- 
j^g of the steps along the side of 
e CFA building. Phase Two is 
jjrrently in progress and involves 
r e construction of the new ter- 
?ace area. Phase Three, which
will occur in the spring, will fea- Aesthetically, Tellers felt it was
ture a renovation of the front important that the new terrace 
lawn area. be “in the character of the old ...
Regarding the timetable for terrace.” Originally, the terrace 
completion, Greenaway added was no more than a walkway. In 
that “We’re targeting completing the 1960s, it was expanded to a 
the paving by mid-December, larger size. Tellers wanted some- 
weather permitting ... [and] the thing that combined the size of 
lights by the first of January.” the 1960s terrace and the charac- 
Paul Tellers, the University ter of the original terrace, 
architect, feels that when the In keeping with that character,
renovation is completed, “it’s go- a set of steps will lead from the 
ing to be beautiful... the crafts- terrace down to the lawn in front 
manship is wonderful.” of CFA. This was a feature of the
“The new terrace will be just original terrace which was lost in 
about the same size [as the old the 1960s renovation. Tellers 
one],"according to Teller s. There thinks that the new steps will 
was a lot of discussion about prove to be a nice meeting place 
making the new terrace larger in in the same mold as the steps in 
order to house more outdoor func- front of Doherty. They will pro- 
tions, such as lectures or theatri- vide “a way for people to ... enjoy 
cal productions. However, it was what’s going on in the lawn or 
decided that the original size just read a book.” 
would be adequate for these Because of the steps, no formal 
needs. See CONSTRUCTION, page 5
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photographer
Construction continues at the College of Fine Arts. There are three phases to the process. Currently the 
building is in Phase Two, which consists of the construction of a new terrace area.

---------------------------------------------------

Stud tensec h aencdrgd wdiikc l Sm CkodFAdn mPPf
THIS JUST IN•••
leader dies at 86
NEW YORK, November 18, — Fri­
day night a great band leader from the 
golden era of jazz died at age 86. Cab 
Calloway died in Hockessin, Delaware, 
at the Cokesbury Retirement Village. 
Calloway suffered a stroke in. June 
and had been sick ever since.
He was a great entertainer. Prior to 
his band playing many of the popular 
hits of the day, including “Minnie the 
Moocher,” “Greechy Joe,” “Are You All 
Reet?” and Mumpin Jive,” he would 
often dance and tell jokes to the audi­
ence. Histrademarkoutfitwasawhite 
silk tailcoat.
Calloway lead one of the best dressed 
and best-brassed sections throughout 
the history of jazz. The members of 
Calloway’s band included trumpeters 
Doc Cheatham, bassist Milt Hinton, 
saxophonists Ben Webster, Ike Que­
bec, and Chu Berry, drummer Panama 
Francis, and rookie Dizzy Gillespie.
Gillespie did inspired the band, but 
did not last long. Calloway fired him 
after Gillespie threw a spitball at him 
during a rehearsal.
There weren’t any bad feelings be­
tween the two. In fact, Calloway would 
often receive phone calls from Gillespie 
in which he blew his horn through the 
receiver.
Calloway was bom in 1907 on De­
cember 25 to a middle-class family in 
Rochester, New York. Cabell Calloway 
III did most of his growing up in Bal­
timore, Maryland, where he dropped
his original dream of becoming a law­
yer to follow his sister into show 
buisness.
When he was only 23, Calloway was 
leading his band at the famous Cotton 
Club in Harlem. He followed a band 
led by a young Duke Ellington. He was 
made a national celebrity by the radio 
broadcasters from the Cotton Club.
Calloway’s famous catch phrase was 
“Hi-De, Hi-De-Ho”. It was created at 
the Cotton Club when Calloway forgot 
the words to a song. From that point 
on, the bandleader used it to inspire 
his audience to join in.
Thatwasnot the onlynonsense word 
he created. Other words included, 
“Chigger, Chigger Wa Wa,” “Zaz Zuh 
Zaz,” “Peek-a-Doodle Doo” and “Utt- 
Da-Zay.” These were all created as he 
would scat-sing. Calloway published a 
book titled, “Mr. Hepster’s Jive Talk 
Dictionary.”
After his well-paid, well-treated 
band broke up in 1948, Calloway pur­
sued an acting career.
Calloway played roles that enter­
tained audiences during the 1950s 
Broadway revival. George Gershwin 
used'him for a model as “Sportin' Life” 
in “Porgy and Bess.”
He also enjoyed success in a Broad­
way production of “Hello Dolly.” He 
starred in such films as, “The Big 
Broadcast of1932” and “Blues Broth­
ers,” a 1980 film that demonstrated 
his work to a new generation.
President urges for the passage of GATT
WASHINGTON, D.C., November 18, 
(DJ) — The Clinton Administration 
pulled out four of its economic bigwigs to 
again present its argument that the 
Uruguay Round of the General Agree­
ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) must 
pass this year if the U.S. wants to keep 
the respect of the international finan­
cial community and maintain a biparti­
san approach to trade and boost global 
growth. White House Chief of Staff Leon 
Panetta, U.S. Trade Representative 
Mickey Kantor, White House Economic 
Adviser Robert Rubin and Treasury Sec­
retary Lloyd Bentsen told trade group 
representatives that it was essential to 
pass GATT now because it would be 
impossible to do so without fast-track
negotiating authority next year. Panetta 
said in that conversation with both Re­
publican and Democratic members of 
Congress he found confidence that GATT 
will be passed this year.
‘T talked to members on both sides and 
they’re confident we can win it,” Panetta 
told the trade representatives.
He said Kantor has met with soon-to- 
be Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R- 
Kan.) several times and has made 
progress in pursuading Dole to support 
GATT this year. He said Dole’s primary 
concerns are with the World Trade Or­
ganization (WTO), but there are still a 
few other issues to resolve. Panetta said 
he is aiming to resolve Dole’s concerns 
by next week.
Writers receive Nat’I Book Award
NEW YORK, November 16, — James 
Tate received the 1994 National Book 
Award in New York City on Wednesday. 
Tate is a poet and was awarded for his 
book of poetry entitled, The Worshipful 
Company of Fletchers. Tate visited CMU 
back in 1992 for the Adamson Awards. 
Two of his books were re-printed by 
Carnegie Mellon University Press.
Other winners were Sherwin B. 
Nuland’s non-fiction novel How We Die: 
Reflections Life’s Final Chapter and 
William Gaddis for his fictional piece A 
Frolic of His Own.
Tropical storm 
damages crops
BAREFOOT BAY, Fla., November 18, 
(DJ) — Tropical Storm Gordon, which 
pelted lower Florida with rain and winds 
earlier this week, caused $200-$225 mil­
lion worth of crop damage, according to 
estimates released yesterday by the 
Florida Department of Agriculture.
Winter vegetables, such as com, to­
matoes, lettuce, and bell peppers were 
hardest hit, with thousands of acres 
submerged or saturated. The storm 
dumped as much as 17 inches of rain on 
some areas by Wednesday, affecting 
hundreds of thousands of acres of crop 
land in the state.
The deluge came at a particularly sen­
sitive time for vegetable farmers, many 
of whom were gearing up for a holiday- 
season harvest. Gordon was also diffi­
cult for farmers in southern Florida, an 
area that’s still recovering from Hurri­
cane Andrew in 1992.
“It’s probably as bad as it has been in 
my 20 years here,” said Ed Hamilton, 
general manager of a 23,000 acre farm 
in Belle Glade. Mr. Hamilton said he 
already has lost $1 million worth of 
investments in crops, and depending on 
how well remaining plants recover, the 
tally may rise.
Pentagon could save with merger
WASHINGTON, D.C., November 18, 
(DJ) — Lockheed Corp. and Martin 
Marietta Corp. estimate that their pro­
posed merger could result in $400 -$600 
million in savings a year for the Penta­
gon, according to a projection the two 
companies provided to the government.
The higher-than-expected estimate, 
delivered last week is an important 
element of the companies’ campaign to 
win government approval for their $10 
billion merger. The deal would create 
the nation’s largest defense-and-aero-
space company, with annual sales in 
excess of $23 billion.
The estimate is undergoing intense 
scrutiny by the Defense Department, 
which is deciding what conditions to 
place on the merger, and whether it 
should be allowed to proceed.
The companies need strong Pentagon 
backing to win final approval as quickly 
as possible.
Ultimately, the decision rests with the 
Federal Trade Commission, which is 
leading an antitrust review of the ac­
cord.
A spokesman for Martin Marietta, 
based in Bethesda, Md., declined to com­
ment. Lockheed Chairman Daniel 
Tellep, who would serve as chairman of 
the merged Lockheed Martin Corp., 
wouldn’t discuss the savings estimates 
directly in a recent interview. Lockheed 
is based in Calabasas, Calif.
However, Mr. Tellep said the savings 
will be “substantially greater” than the 
$1.5 billion projected by Martin Marietta 
over five years from its earlier acquisi­
tion of General Electric Co.’s space unit.
That would correspond with the esti­
mates provided to the Defense Depart­
ment last week, under which a Lockheed- 
Martin merger would be expected.
Company shows an improvement
KEY BISCAYNE, FI., November 18, 
(DJ) — U.S. Home Corp. said total 
revenues will be roughly $1 billion in 
1994 and it expects positive trends expe­
rienced so far this year to continue in the 
fourth quarter.
For the nine months ended September 
30, U.S. Home reported net income of 
$23,463,000, or $2.05 a primary share, 
on revenues of $722 million.
For the year ended December 31,1993, 
the company reported net income of 
$71,691,000, or $6.16 a primary share, 
on revenues of $812.1 million.
In a press release, U.S. Home said its 
sales in September, October, and early 
November have remained stable with 
last year’s activity despite rising inter­
est rates. U.S. Home said it is “well 
positioned to weather the environment 
of rising interest rates due to its lean 
inventory position” of only 130 completed 
unsold homes in about 190 communities 
and its “broad product and geographic 
diversity.”
The company’s remarks were made in 
a presentation at the third annual South­
east Research Partners Regional Insti­
tutional Conference here. The company 
also said it is continuing its expansion 
into new markets, noting U.S. Home 
will have 10 new communities in Cleve­
land, Columbus and Indianapolis by the 
second quarter of 1995. U.S. Home.said
its retirement/second home segment of 
its business has increased to 19 percent 
of sales in 1994 from 15 percent of sales 
in 1993. The company said its goal is to 
increase retirement/second home sales 
to 25 percent of its business. “Despite 
U.S. Home’s positive performance, the 
company is selling at a discount to the 
homebuilding group with a price to book 
of approximately 53 percent and with a 
price to earnings ratio of only 6.5 times 
analysts’estimates for1994,” U.S. Home 
said.
Coach accused 
of fraud charges
WACO, Texas, November 17, — On 
Thursday, a federal grand jury indicted 
former Baylor coach Darrel Johnson and 
three former assistants with wire and 
mail fraud charges.
The charges were handed down only 
one day after Johnson was fired by the 
college for what they felt were violations 
of NCAA rules.
Johnson was denied any criminal ac­
tivity again and again.
Coaches and officials from the college 
are alleged to have assisted athletes 
cheat on correspondence courses in or­
der for them to transfer.
It was also alleged that term papers 
and final examinations were prepered 
by other people, other than the students. 
Once the grades were received, Baylor 
took and sent the transcripts.
Using mail or fax to transport fraudu­
lent material is illegal.
The coaches are not going to be ar­
rested, instead they will receive a court 
date with their summons.
The charges come after the Waco FBI 
and Southwest Conference were exam­
ining for any wrongdoing in the NCAA.
The investigation began almost, a year 
ago when the Baylor women’s basket­
ball coach at the time, Pam Bowers, 
alleged that there were NCAA viola­
tions in memos to the officials in the 
administration.
A 544-page report was submitted 
which finds the college with 28 NCAA 
violations. Baylor is waiting for a re­
sponse from the NCAA.
Baylor President Herbert Reynolds 
didn’t wish to wait for the letter.
He imposed a ban on television and 
post-season appearances for the men’s 
organization.
This will result in a loss of five schol­
arships and an assistant who works full 
time.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Briefs Compiled by 
Edward Hayes
GobacktoDaLH\GH
SCHOOL?
^\chae|C>
The Office of Admission is again running its
HIGH SCHOOL AMBASSADOR PROGRAM
It is a chance for CMU students to visit their 
hometown high schools over winter break 
and talk with students about their experiences 
at Carnegie Mellon!
Interested? You must come to one of these meetings:
Tuesday, December 6th or Wednesday, December 7th 6:00 to 7:00 PM
Office of Admissions 
(Warner Hall 100)
261-5115
p/*za and ^
1710 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15219
S P EcI A Ls 
__—
One Large Pizza withTwo 1/4 Pound Bacon Cheeseburgers
One Topping$5.98Large Fries with Cheese, and
One Liter of Soda$7.75
Two Whole Italian Hoagies
with One Liter of Soda$8.78One Large Pizza with One Whole
Italian Hoagie$9.49
Two Whole Steak Hoagies
with One Liter of Soda$9.76One Gyro Wedgie, Large Fries with
Cheese, and One Liter of Pepsi$7.75
Steak and Cheese Wedgie(
with French Fries andTwo Medium Pizzas with
One Liter of Pepsi$7.75One Topping Each$10.51
FWCES DO HOT INCLUDE TAX.If you haw any questions, please call the 
Office of Admission al \K-20K2 and ask for Trevor.

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPfG
Crime and Incident Report
¦for last pick up-safe as coffee
Revive with VIVARIN;
. Use only as directed. Contains caffoine equivalent to 2 cupa of coffee.
0/4 VANDALISM, 1:53 am. 
Campus Police reported that a 
large wall in Mudge was covered 
with graffiti. The wall was in the 
basement of B Tower. The graf­
fiti included several symbols and 
the words, “Korean Power.” The 
letters were sprayed in black 
paint and ran along from room 
jjl to the end of the staircase. 
Also, stapled to the board were 
two signs that read “Vandalism” 
and “$500 Fine” and a mock print 
of a Campus police Crime Alert 
bulletin concerning the vandal­
ism in the residence hall. 
Maintenace will remove the graf­
fiti.
11/4 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
4:13 pm. An SEI parking garage 
attendant reported to the SEI 
security desk that a gray pick-up 
truck, had broken off the lease 
holders exit gate while leaving 
the garage. The witness said he 
was talking withacustomerwhen 
he heard a loud crash. He looked 
up and saw the truck pulling 
away. He didn’t know if it was an 
intentional act or not. A second 
witness said he saw the truck go 
through the gate, and when it 
stopped at an intersection, the 
driver got out and put the gate in 
the back and drove off. Neither 
witness was able to obtain a li­
cense plate number.
11/6 LIQUOR LAW VIOLA­
TION, 12:04 am. While on pa­
trol, an officer encountered a stu­
dent leaving a fraternity with an 
open container of beer. The stu­
dent was immediately given a 
internal citation for violation of 
the liquor law.
11/6 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 12:33 am. While on pa­
trol in one of the parking areas, 
an officer observed a student 
mooning the traffic as it passed 
by on Forbes Ave. The student 
was issued an internal citation 
for disorderly conduct.
11/6 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT/OPEN LEWDNESS,
2:29 am. While on uniformed pa­
trol, a campus security officer 
observed a male get out of the 
passenger side of a car and walk 
to the driveway at Mellon Bank. 
The actor went to the MAC ma­
chine and began urinating 
against the wall. The act was in 
view ofthe few pedestrians walk­
ing up Craig St.
The male appeared to be in­
toxicated by his unsteady gait 
and slow reaction to answering 
questions. He was issued a PA 
non-traffic citation for the inci­
dent. He had ID’s from both the 
University of Pittsburgh and the 1 Community College of Allegheny 
County.
1V6 VANDALISM, 2:53 am. 
While patrolling the Hill Dormi­
tories, campus police discovered 
a damaged fire annunciator panel 
at the lower entrance to McGill 
Hall. The door to the annunciator 
was pried away from its frame 
and was nearly open. The frame 
was pried from the wall which 
allowed access to the inside. Some 
f of the wires were torn and ex­
posed. The annunciator was later 
repaired.
11/8 MEDICAL/PERSONAL 
INJURIES, 7:19 pm. A student 
I informed the CMU police that a 
soccer player was injured on the 
30 yard line of Tech Field. The 
Patient, a male, injured his right 
knee while he was playing. The 
victim's knee was dislocated and 
then became relocated. The knee 
was stabilized using padded 
board splints and an ice pack was 
“pplied for swelling. The victim 
Was then taken to Presbyterian 
University Hospital.
U/8 BICYCLE ACCIDENT,
*17 pm. A CMU police officer 
''’as standing at the doorway of 
fudge when he saw a person 
ying on the sidewalk accross the 
street. Behind the female, was 
her bike. EMS were called on to 
e scene. The victim complained 
about pain in her hip, and she 
PPed three of her front teeth.
The bike was taken to Head­
quarters for safekeeping.There 
were scratch-es on the right fork 
of the frame of the bike. The fe­
male said she was riding her bike 
when she lost her concentration 
and turned the front wheel too 
sharply. This caused her to fall.
11/9 UNATTENDED ES­
CORT OFFICE, 9:15 am. Cam­
pus police received calls that there 
was no one answering at the Es­
cort desk. An officer called over 
on the radio and was greeted with 
someone saying. “Hello, hello?” 
The officer inquired as to whether 
or not someone was attending 
the desk or not. The person on the 
other end said, “I was just walk­
ing by, and I heard the phone 
ringing.” Later, there were more 
complaints about the desk not 
being attended. An officer went 
over to investigate and discov­
ered the desk was unattended. 
The escort radio, telephone, sign- 
out key and back pack were sit­
ting on a shelf behind the desk.
1179 INCIDENT, 9:27 am. A 
person called campus police com­
plaining about two vehicles that 
were near the fence in Whitfield 
Hall lot. The police officer ar­
rived on the scene and found that 
the parked vehicles were situ­
ated so a person could climb the 
fence and enter into person’s 
home. The officers took precau­
tions to be sure it wouldn’t hap­
pen again.
11/9 ACCIDENT, 4:12 pm. A 
campus police officer was wait­
ing for a light at the Ross Street 
intersection. As the officer waited 
for the light, a female was cross­
ing the street when a grey 
Chevrolet Celebrity turned the 
comer and hit the woman.
She fell to the ground and the 
car drove through the intersec­
tion and stopped a short distance 
away. The victim complained of 
pain in her right leg. She was 
able to stand, but walked with a 
limp.
11/11 THEFT, 8:21pm. Cam­
pus police responded to a theft 
report in th gym. The student 
who reported the incident said 
that between 4:45 and 8 pm, some­
one stole an IBM Compaq 4626 
portable computer.
The computer was priced at 
$2,500. The model and serial 
number were unavailable at the 
time of the report.
The computer was on a bench 
and covered with clothes. The 
area that has the swim team’s 
clothes is unlocked most of the 
time.
11/13 OPEN LEWDNESS/ 
LIQUORLAWS, 2:22 am. A cam­
pus police officer was patrolling 
Margaret Morrison Street when 
he noticed a male relieving him­
self in front of the Women’s Cen­
ter. The student was intoxicated 
and not from CMU. He said he 
had been drinking prior to at­
tending a party at one of the fra­
ternities. The officer told him that 
he would be issued PA citations 
for disorderly conduct and un­
derage possession.
The officer told the suspect that 
the citations would be mailed due 
to the activity of the evening. The 
student old the officer he could do 
“whatever the fuck [he] wanted,” 
and that the underage drinking 
laws were “a bunch of bullshit.” 
The officer told the actor that he 
was to leave campus. If he re­
turned, he would be arrested for 
trespassing. The student contin­
ued to argue, and the officer 
threatened to arrest the student, 
he left.
11/13 MEDICAL CALL, 2:41 
am. A security guard witnessed 
three people walking towards 
Margaret Morrison Street on the 
walkway towards Resnik. One of 
the people was being carried by 
the other two.
He was not wearing a shirt and 
appeared to have been bleeding. 
The victim appeared to be intoxi­
cated. His friends said that they 
had been dancing in the frater­
nity quad when the victim fell
into the shrubs and received a 
three inch laceration on his rib 
cage. The victim declined any 
medical treatment. The police told 
him to update his inoculation of 
tetanus shots. The victim was 
carrying a piece of aluminum and 
rubber that he said he found on 
the track. He said he was going to 
return it to the coach. The police 
took the piece and informed the 
athletic department about its 
whereabouts.
11/14 THEFT, 4:00 pm. A 
member of facilities managment 
found a sign in the basement of 
Roselawn Apartments. According 
to one of the residences, the sign 
had been there since the start of 
the fall semester.
The sign was a 3’x5’ red and 
white CMU campus sign. It read, 
“Pedestrian Walkway.” The sign 
had been removed for the Uni­
versity Center construction site. 
The sign was removed from the 
basement and taken to police 
headquarters for safekeeping.
on the window in the first floor of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
Hall. She forgot it and went to 
her class. An hour later when she 
returned, the jacket was gone. 
The jacket was brown suede me­
dium size with a tan silk lining. 
The jacket is valued at $100. The 
jacket contained the victim’s two 
keys and her Carnegie Mellon 
ID. The locks for the keys will be 
changed.
11/15 THEFT, 9:54 pm. Cam­
pus police responded to a theft 
report at the gym. A female stu­
dent reported that while in Hunt 
Library someone removed her 
black wallet.
This was between 10:30 pm and 
1:30 am on the 14th. The victim 
did not realize the wallet was 
taken until late in the afternoon 
on the 15th. The wallet contained 
$30, a Carnegie Mellon ID, a 
Mellon Bank Mac card, two Visa 
cards, two Mastercards, one Dis­
cover Discover card and two video 
cards.
11/14 THEFT, 11:39 pm. A 11/16 POSSIBLE SCAM, 1:51 
femaled told the CMU police that pm. A male entered the Co-op 
she left her brown suede jacket Store and requested change for
change. He gave the cashier a $10 bill and asked for a five dollar 
bill and five one’s.
After receiving his change, the 
actor asked for change for a 
twenty. He then pulled out a $10 
bill. The cashier told him that he 
didn’t have enough money. The 
actor left.
11/17 MEDICAL CALL, 6:06 
pm. CMU police were dispatched 
to a person playing football be­
tween the grass area between 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall 
and Donner Hall.
The victim was found lying on 
the ground with his mouth bleed­
ing. It was discovered that the 
victim had suffered a half inch on 
his upper Up. He got the cut after 
running into another player.
The victim did not loose con­
sciousness. A gauze pad and di­
rect pressure was used to control 
the bleeding. The victim was then 
transported to Presbyterian Hos­
pital.
11/17 MEDICAL ASSIST,
6:16 pm. Campus security re­
sponded to a medical call about 
an injured person on Tech Field.
When the police arrived, EMS 
was treating the female victim. 
She said she was extremely dizzy 
and unable to stand or walk. The 
victim said that while running 
with the ball she accidently col­
lided into a fellow player and 
struck the right side of her fore­
head.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident report under 
the following guidlines:
• Chief of Campus Police, James 
LaPaglia, reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports : the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief, the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
EDWARD HAYES
IF YOU’RE 
INTO DOPE. 
YOU MIGHT 
AS WELL 
SMOKE THIS.
There’s one sure way to see 
your future go up in smoke.
Do drugs.
Last year alone, America’s
businesses lost more than $60 
billion to drugs. So this year, 
most of the Fortune 500 will be 
administering drug tests. If you
fail the test, you’re out of a job.
The message is simple. 
Doing drugs could blow your 
whole education.WE RE PUTTING DRUGS OUT OF BUSINESS.
Partnership for a Drug-Free America
Looks like a 
li night.
It s 10 PM. You've crammed for finals 
all week. Took two today. And 
now you've got to pack an entire 
semesters worth of Philosophy into 
one take-home exam, in one night. 
But how do you stay awake when 
you're totally wiped? Revive 
with Vivarin. Safe as coffee, 
Vivarin helps keep you awake 
\ and mentally alert for hours.
So when you have pen in 
\ hand, but sleep on the brain, 
make it a Vivarin night!

---------------------------------------------------

Mc^ payment ts an estate basal cm a purchase price of SL93I52, which includes 85% sales tax, Jor the Maantosb I'erforma 636CD system ¡bourn above. Including loanfes, the total loan amount is ¡2,044.00, which results in a monthly payment obligation off3350. The mortify payment above was calculated using an estimate of ¡ales tax in San Francisco. If the applicable sales lax i 
B.p%'(QKago) or 7.0% (fwaddpbia), the monthly payment would be f3358or f33.04, respectively. Computer system prices, loan amounts and sales taxes may vary. See jour autborted Apple Campus Reseller or representative for current system prices, loan and lax amounts. Loans are for a minimum of t1,000 to a maximum off10,000. You may lake out more than one loan, but Ihelc 
pmm^w^c^^sumatbe ^er^^ulfp^pT ^infrrtStu^ ^^rp^dp^n^^if* ^ U^cmltJy% and'beA!^d Percentage Rate was 12.44%. 8-year loan term with no prepayment penalty. Tie monthlypayment and the annual
Now, Uncle Sam 
Has a Way to Help 
Families and Students 
Afford College...
And Save Taxpayers 
Billions !
With the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can take advantage of 
already great student pricing on a Mac“-for about $33 per month* with no payments for 90 days! 
Students who qualify can take home any Macintosh’ personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or 
other peripherals with no hassle and no complicated forms. Let!s face it, the holidays aren’t exactly
conducive to saving money. In fact, they can leave you broke. But you can still buy the computer 
you want and not worry about payments until long after the decorations are down. The t 
Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan.The solution 
that gives you the power every student needs. The power to be your best? ilUpiC w
PAY NOTHING FOR 90 DAYS
Onejava, piping hot, no sugar and boldtbe moo juice.
Only$33.00 a month?
For about a dollar a day 
bothwill giw pi the power you need to 
survive this semester.
Maantosb Perfornuf 636CD 
8MB RAM/250MB bard drive, CD-ROM drive, 14" color monitor, 
keyboard, mouse and all Ibe software you're likely to need
Reporting campus news since 1906
For more information visit the 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-2636
NewesDwievr rÄSr ,7' l^'^^r^^int^^f)Tin^w^bem,uireil^or90clays' (&M resellen may rvtflàre a detxtà to boMmercbaridiæwbiU loan is being approved) Irterest accruing diaing this 90-day period unU he oibid In prinrijvil, mdih^prirupil^^nt u^llyrmßfr bear mleml
Introducing New Individual Education Accounts
Finally, there’s good news for families. And good news for taxpayers, too.
New Individual Education Accounts are here. Recently created by the President and the 
Congress, they make the American dream of an affordable college education a reality for 
many more young people and their families who thought it was beyond their financial 
reach. Here’s how it works:
• Borrowing for college is simpler. Students get their loans directly though their colleges. 
No more confusion about where to go for loans. No more red tape.
• Loans are more affordable. The new direct loan program lowers fees and interest rates 
for all types of college loans.
• Pay back as you can. Students can tailor their repayment plan to match their ability to 
pay. That means they can start a business, do community service, or take other jobs 
without being burdened with a big, fixed debt early in their careers.
• Refinancing is available. If students have more than one loan, an IEA can help consoli­
date them and offer a refinancing plan that makes more sense.
• Taxpayers come out winners, too. With streamlined procedures, IEA’s will save Ameri­
can taxpayers billions of dollars in unnecessary costs.
That is good news!
For more information, call your college financial aid officer or 1-800-4FEDAID.
THE NEW INDIVIDUAL EDUCATION ACCOUNT 
The better way to finance a college education.
William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program 
U.S. Department of Education

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec T aencdrgd wdiikc p 21 CkodFAdn mPPfD
University raises funds for students
ENDOWMENT, front page 1
paignis still '.miieterminctj. Mr.. 
Johnson believes that, “we 
should expect to raise some­
where between $300 and $500 
million.”
Of the funds received, an es­
timated one-half will be used to 
directly augment CMtPs cur­
rent endowment.
This would include the fund­
ing of endowed chairs which 
retain and attract distin­
guished faculty members.
The gifts required for each 
endowed chair run an average 
of about $1 million, according 
to Johnson. He cited an increase 
in “the support of undergradu­
ate scholarships and graduate 
fellowships” as another prime 
reason for increasing the en­
dowment.
Currently, CMU’s earnings 
from endowment amount to 
seven percent of the university’s 
annual budget of $365 million.
According to Johnson, an in­
crease of one percent would add 
approximately $3 million to the 
annual budget.
He added that, “At many of 
our peer institutions, 10 or 11 
percent of revenue comes from
endowment.'’ .
: 1 ri the past 18 months, a cam­
paign team has been conduct­
ing several: preliminary activi­
ties.
The reason for the activities 
was to pave the way for the 
actual fund raising campaign.
To date, the team has already 
planned activities in 15 cities, 
identified 180 new major 
sources for gifts, and produced 
$24 million innew endowment 
proposals.
According to a slide presented 
by Johnson to the Board of 
Trustees, in order to facilitate 
the actual fund raising drive, 
the campaign calls for volun­
teer leadership stating that, 
,ithis must be Carnegie Mellon’s 
first broad-based volunteer- 
driven campaign.”
The Centennial Campaign for 
Carnegie Mellon will be eclec­
tic in its sources of funding. 
While it is projected that indi­
vidual contributions will make 
up nearly two-thirds of the 
funds to be raised.
It is anticipated that about 
one-third will come from gen­
erous contributions by corpo­
rations and foundations.
Campus network could go wireless
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Soon there will be no more plug­
ging into walls so that a “connec­
tion” will be established.
In a matter of a few years, 
researchers hope to have a new 
system, dubbed “Wireless An­
drew,” set up for campus-wide 
use.
This project comes about from 
grants in many areas. According
to a recent press re- ______
lease, Carnegie Mellon 
University’s Informa­
tion Networking Insti­
tute (INI) received a 
two year grant from the 
National Science Foun­
dation (NSF) to put to­
gether this network.
Money, in the form of 
grants, also came from 
Bell Atlantic and Bell
Communications Re- ______
search (Bellcore). ¦¦¦¦
According to Alex 
Hills, Distinguished Service Pro­
fessor for The Department of En­
gineering and Public Policy and 
also the principal investigator of 
the project, the project just 
started a few months ago, and is 
developing quite nicely. “Every­
thing is on schedule just as we 
planned,” said Hills. “A lot of 
people use lap- top computers,
and now they’ll be able to receive 
the same services from a lap top 
as they would a desk top com­
puter. They’ll be able to continue 
just sitting down wherever and 
opening up their computer, only 
now they’ll have access to all the 
Andrew services.”
The project is scheduled to be 
in use by researchers in a little 
over a year or so, according to 
Hills.
Campus-wide use won’t begin
develop a wireless system that 
will extend the capabilities of 
Carnegie Mellon’s Andrew dis­
tributed communications net­
work so users can get all the func­
tions of their desktop computers 
through handheld or laptop com­
puters, whether they’re on cam­
pus or off.”
This will be extremely benefi­
cial to students who live in the 
Pittsburgh area and commute 
back and forth to CMU.
“The project is in its really early stages right 
now, and has never been attempted by any­
one else. ”
— Alex Hills, Distinguished Service 
Professor for the Department of 
Engineering and Public Policy
for at least a couple of years. “The When the system starts, it will 
project is in its really early stages operate in three campus build- 
right now, and has never been ings.
attempted by anyone else. This is 
a much larger scale project than 
anything preceding it,” saidHills. 
“It’s a pretty big thing, and it’s 
very challenging.”
Users will have small, note­
book computers to access the 
same features that are available 
from their desktop.
According to the press release,
The goal of this system, accord- the new system will combine the 
ing to the press release, is “to Andrew system, the new high- for comment.
speed wireless network and Bell 
Atlantic Mobile Systems Corp.’s 
cellular digital packet data net­
work that was recently installed 
in the metropolitan Pittsburgh 
area.
The only problem that is fore­
seen with the whole network will 
be the development of the soft­
ware that will make all the sys­
tems compatible.
Because of the different band- 
widths of the three systems, the 
system will run more 
smoothly on campus, but 
the creation of the soft­
ware will allow the ma­
chines to make the ad­
aptations necessary to 
automatically adjust to 
the different frequencies 
and bandwidths.
One of the benefits 
about the system is that 
once available, meetings 
can be held in any office 
or available space, while 
in that space, users will 
be able to open a lap-top and have 
instant access to everything that 
would have been in the office com­
puter. Another prominent mem­
ber of the research team, John 
Leong, Carnegie Mellon’s direc­
tor of computing services and co­
principal investigator of the wire­
less project, could not be reached
Construction on CFA continues as planned
CONSTRUCTION, from page 1
seating will be installed on the 
patio itself. Instead, as part of the 
third phase, there is a possibility 
of installing some benches on the 
Hunt Library side of the lawn.
What type of lighting should be 
installed was another heavily 
debated issue. The first plan 
called for six light poles to be set 
up in order to light the niches in 
front of CFA.
However,- according toTellers, 
this plan was scrapped due to 
cost considerations and esthetic 
disagreement. Tellers said that 
the new plan involves two light 
poles, one at each end of the ter­
race.
These will be used to light 
events occurring on the terrace. 
The niches themselves will not 
have any direct light, but they 
will be partially lit by the poles. 
Also, light poles will be installed 
atthe north and south ends of the
CFA lawn.
The third phase of construction 
will also include planting new 
trees in the CFA lawn, which will 
take place this winter, and seed­
ing new grass in the early spring.
Martin Prekop, the dean of 
CFA, was not available for com­
ment at press time.
Apparently, the fact that the 
front of the building is torn up 
does not bother some students 
attending classes in the CFA 
Building.
Michael Hsueh, a freshman art 
major, says his performance is 
not affected by it.
The only time he notices that 
the construction is happening is 
“if I look out a window and see it.” 
The fact that the front door is 
difficult to use also does not bother 
him. “If I had been here last year, 
it might be different... I’ve just 
gotten used to using the base­
ment door.”
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photographer
Construction continues on CFA. The second phase is scheduled to be 
completed sometime in mid-December.
Four-Day Outlook
TuesdayWednesdayThursdayFriday
-•/}
Much colder with chance of flurries. Partly sunny with highs in the low Partly sunny with the low In the It will be cloudy with a chance of
tows to be in the upper 20s. 40s and lows in the 20s. lower 20s. showers in the afternoon.
Campus Interviews
November 30, 1994
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5“ is 
looking for motivated people to establish a career in 
the brokerage business.
OLDE offers:
12-18 month paid training program 
Potential six-figure income 
Excellent benefits
If you possess excellent communication skills, general 
market knowledge and the desire to excel, sign up for 
an on-campus interview on November 30,1994 in the 
Career Center.
If you are unable to arrange an interview call:
1 800 937-0606
or send resume to:
OLDE Discount Stockbrokers 
National Recruiting 
751 Griswold Street 
Detroit, MI 48226¿.OLDE
DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS
Member NYSE and SIPC 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
LicensedAgency
Need a Friend?
Coping with an unplanned pregnancy?
Turn your crisis into a plan.
We Listen
Free counseling, support 
& personal attention
Call Today
734-2662
or, 1-800-BETHANY
CMU Almanac
50 YEARS AGO — According 
to The Tartan, “The results of the 
United War Fund Drive, as an­
nounced by Mr. Kent Shaffer, 
head of the drive at Carnegie, 
indicate that the faculty mainte­
nance staff, and the student body 
have achieved the almost unbe­
lievable figure of 95.5 percent of 
the quota set for the contribution 
from Carnegie. The schools which 
participated in the drive exceeded 
their quota in subscribing to the 
extent of 111 percent of the re­
quired amount.”
25 YEARS AGO — “Dr. 
Andreas S. Papandreau, exiled 
Greek political leader, delivered 
three Fairless Memorial Lectures 
at C-MU, November 17, 18 and 
19,” reported The Tartan “Charg­
ing that democracy in modern 
societies is largely a fiction, Dr. 
Papandreau proposed a ‘decen­
tralization of the social decision 
making process.’ ”
10 YEARS AGO — The Tar­
tan reported, “The Department 
of Defense (DOD) has informed 
officials of Camegie-Mellon Uni­
versity that it wants and intends 
to establish a $103 million Soft­
ware Engineering Institute (SEI) 
at CMU.
“Negotiators met Thursday to 
discuss plans for the SEI Build­
ing which is expected to begin 
soon as negotiations are com­
pleted. The completion of the In­
stitute is expected to take 18 
months.”
5 YEARS AGO — “After re­
ceiving word of large, as yet 
anonymous intended donations 
to the capital campaign, Carnegie 
Mellon’s Board of Trustees com­
mitted the University to the raz­
ing of Skibo and the construction 
of the new, $41 million Univer­
sity Center, last Monday,” re­
ported The Tartan.
Corrections
In last week’s issue, the caption under the picture of the 
speaker said that it was Peter Beger. The speaker was Mike 
Godwin.
In the column entitled, “Let’s Stop the War on Drugs” the line 
that read “Drug use is a good thing...” was suppose to read, 
“While I’m not one to say that use of drugs is a good thing...”
The Tartan corrects all known errors offact If you know of an 
error, please contact the Editor-in Chief Andrew Sproule at x8- 
2111. or write him in care of The Tartan.
“MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA" PAGEANT
Official ^relinunanj/ JÍÍÍ&& 
USk ÇËwjewib
NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED
If you are an applicant who 
qualifies and are between the ages of 
18 and 27 by February 1,1996, never 
married and at least a six month 
resident of Pennsylvania, thus col­
lege dorm students are eligible, you 
could be Pennsylvania's representa­
tive at the CBS-nationally televised 
Miss USA* Pageant’ in February 1996 to compete for over {200,000 
in cash and prizes. The Miss Penn­
sylvania USA Pageant for 1996 will 
be presented at the Palace Inn, 
Monroeville, Pennsylvania, March 
4 & 5,1995. The new Miss Pennsyl­
vania USA, along with her expense 
paid trip to compete In the CBS-nationally televised Miss USA Pageant, will 
receive over {2,000 in cash among her many prizes. All ladies interested In 
competing for the title must respond by mail. Letters mutt include a recent tnmpibet, a britfbitgrapby, addrett and mpk+ne number. WRITE TO:
HISS PENNSYLVANIA USA PAGEANT 
c^o TrvSltfaHoidquiflars-Defl CA ‘A terra Pm&cttm'
347 boat Avmue, Wasftnglcn, PA 15301 UMfia
TriSWstfcadqusImPlan¡1 (412)^—S 1»«!'»''^«’ MEHMD
Applinsliom BemMime U Maeomttr >7,199*
•Miss USA° Pageoxi is port qftbsfawlly afP*T*m—nt CommmalctHons, Inc.
I uSrw®155CHS
Miss Pennsylvania VSAm Pageant is "A Carvem Production”

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Dine X-press fails to 
meet students needs
Carnegie Mellon Dining Ser­
vices loses money every year 
because the exorbitant prices 
they charge at their facilities 
around campus. It appears that 
the prime concern is to ensure a 
minimum flow of revenue in or­
der to reduce the inevitable and 
certainly inexplicable losses.
Consider the rationale behind 
continuing and advertise the 
option of putting money into 
Dine X-press when a far better 
option exists in the form of Cam­
pus X-press. What does Dine X- 
press do for Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Services? Like block 
meals, it ensures that there is a 
set sum of money that is guar­
anteed to be spent at one of the 
cafeterias on campus.
Dine X-press limits the usage 
of a student’s mis-invested funds 
to eateries like Highlander, the 
Oasis and Morewood Gardens. 
Campus X-press can be used in 
all these places and in addition 
it can be used at Entropy, the 
University Shoppe and the Book 
Store. Considering this, it im­
mediately becomes obvious that 
Dine X-press is simply an in­
flexible, constricting subset of 
Campus X-press and as such, 
its existence doesn’t make any 
sense at all.
Perhaps all this wouldn’t be a 
problem if everyone were in­
formed about the various pros 
and cons of the respective meal- 
plans and options. But every 
year a large number of students 
come to school with money into 
Dine X-press. The truth is that
informed.
Freshmen are required to buy 
a meal plan. This, in itself is a 
good thing, making the transi­
tion from high school to college 
easier in at least one respect. 
But if Dining Services’ intent is 
really to provide the best op­
tions to students, why is the 
information it presents so in­
complete and misleading?
Consider the fact that there is 
a 15 percent fee for transferring 
funds from Dine X-press to Cam­
pus X-press. This usually comes 
as a shock to most people who, 
having learned of the relative 
disadvantage of keeping money 
in Dine X-press, try to switch 
their funds to Campus X-press.
It seems ridiculous that 
Carnegie Mellon needs to be so 
concerned by this. Nearly all 
the money that students keep 
in Campus X-press would be 
spent on campus anyway.
Does the dual option of Dine 
X-press and Campus X-press 
have any endearing qualities 
whatsoever? From a student’s 
perspective, it appears that 
splitting one’s finances between 
these two allows for more care­
ful budgeting. From a parent’s 
perspective, Dine X-press has 
the quality of ensuring that some 
wayward offspring doesn’t go 
blowing money designated for 
food on CDs and sweatshirts.
The basis for dismissing both 
of the above arguments lies in 
the simple fact that we are talk­
ing about college students here 
— in most cases, responsible
students are purposefully mis- adults.Stereotyping degrades 
students in all schools
It’s really sickening to be 
around these H&SS slackers all 
the time who sit around doing 
busy work that involves no brain 
activity. And CS geeks? Face it 
—they’re married to their moni­
tors ! Or what about the science 
freaks and art psychos who walk 
around looking like aliens on 
the planet Earth. And while the 
arrogant architects can’t get 
enough of themselves, the 
dramats can’t seem to get 
enough of each other.
Did that make you mad? Are 
you steaming around the collar 
right now?
We don’t blame you. People 
around here have an urge to 
stereotype everyone and every­
thing they see.
A person sitting in front of 
Unix monitors is almost auto­
matically dubbed a CS major 
and it is further assumed that 
they remain there 24 hours a 
day, seven days a week, maybe 
taking a break for a class or two. 
The thing is, these assumptions 
are often wrong, and, further­
more, they can be very hurtful 
to individuals, as well as the 
CMU community.
One can ask if it is malicious 
human nature that leads people 
to stereotype, but there seems 
to be a hidden agenda.
Look at the literature handed 
out by Admissions to perspec­
tive students; it describes stu­
dents at CMU as fruits and veg­
etables - the fruits are the CFA
Letters to the Editor
New Scotland 
Yard needs stuff
onEditor:
Scotland Yard will 
reopen the first week 
of next semester, but 
we need your help.
Almost all the 
decorations that lined the walls of the 
original Scotland Yard have been lost or 
stolen. The new Scotland Yard needs
Letter to 
the Editor
atmosphere.
I’d like to ask you to donate or lend any 
Carnegie Mellon memorabilia you might 
have to Scotland Yard. We’ll visibly mark 
anything you give us as a gift from you or 
your organization.
If you have any Carnegie Mellon memo­
rabilia you’d like to make part of the new 
Scotland Yard, please contact me at 268- 
6047 or at declan@cmu.edu.
Declan McCullagh 
Student Body President
Letters to the Editor are opinions of au­
thors who are usually, but not necessar­
ily, members of the University commu­
nity. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's 
address and phone number for verifica­
tion. Names can be withheld upon re­
quest. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
editorial board reserves the right to with­
hold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Insider offers look at sororities
Beth Gariano
students, and the vegetables are 
the engineers.
Where does that leaves every­
body else, first of all? And sec­
ond of all, why the presumed 
classification?
Part of the problem might be 
that people feel they have to fit 
a classification to belong in a 
group of friends within their 
major. Often, people end up be­
ing unknowingly casting them­
selves into a stereotype because 
they feel that is what is expected 
of them.
All that this does is mold 
people’s personality into some­
thing that is not them, and make 
it hard for them to act with 
individuality.
It’s hard enough to get to know 
people in different majors here, 
simply because of social, aca­
demic, and demographic divi­
sions that seem to naturally oc­
cur between the colleges.
The stereotyping that goes on 
makes it even worse - people 
don’t take the time to really try 
and understand what people in 
other colleges do, and accept that 
we are all legitimate scholars 
here, no matter what our major 
is.
If we want to realize our full 
potential, we need to come to­
gether and accept each other for 
who they are.
It is unfair to think that what 
we do in our college is more 
important than what those in 
other schools do.
We’ve all heard what independents think of sorority life. We 
know the stereotypes and the greek-bashing arguments. By 
the other extreme, we’ve seen members glorifying sisterhood 
and the bonds of friendship. Through all the confusion and 
conflicting opinions, what is the truth? And is it really that 
easy to determine?
When I arrived at CMU, sorority rush didn’t even cross my 
mind. The way I figured it, I had already suffered through four 
years of an all-girls’ high school, and college was my chance to 
escape. However, as wonderful as it was to have male friends, 
after a few weeks I began to miss the girl talk. On the second 
day of rush, a close friend of mine convinced me to at least give 
it a try and join her. But the “parties” seemed forced. It wasn’t 
until the last day that I began to sense something real behind 
it all.
The final parties at sororities are serious and planned with 
exhausting effort. The sisterhood seemed to be sharing some­
thing with each other, rather than with only their guests. 
During this time I saw a real unity among the sorority sisters 
that I hadn’t noticed before. They came together and revealed 
exactly what we (the rushies)hada chance tobecomea part of. 
At that point I began to miss my high school relationships even 
more, and I decided I wanted to be a part of their unique 
friendship.
Since that point, sorority life has turned out to be everything
I dreamed it would be — including, unfortunately, the night­
mares. I think the cliché “there are two sides to every story” is 
a little off when describing sororities. Rather, it should say 
that the two sides are actually what create the story. What the 
“sisterhood” members talk about during rush is very true, but 
so are the criticisms and the stereotypes.
Any time you gather a group of fifty girls, there will be high 
and low points. People don’t always get along, and they 
shouldn’t be expected to. In the beginning I was disappointed
to learn that “sisterhood” didn’t mean you had forty-nine 
instant best friends. In fact, there would be some people 
whom you would never become close to at all. I was getting 
discouraged, and doubted the validity of my aspirations, 
when I began to learn that “sisterhood” existed, but was just 
different from what I had imagined.
It is interesting that we call ourselves “sisters,” bonded by 
a “sisterhood,” because that’s really what we are. When you 
j oin a house it’s like entering a big family, minus the parents. 
All of a sudden you have all of these new siblings to get used 
to. Just like in a real family, you don’t always like all of your 
sisters. You have petty cat fights, and some very real and 
deep-seated arguments. There are even times when you 
doubt the strength of the love in your family. And just like a 
real family, with each new member the balance of that 
family shifts and changes.
The family I joined almost three years ago is very different 
than what it has become today. There are new people with 
different attitudes and feelings, different levels of respect 
and commitment. These new members will be the strength 
and shape of the house to come. And as this year’s seniors 
depart, a great shift will occur once more. Veterans of the 
battles, both won and lost, will be moving on into retirement, 
leaving their companions behind to continue the struggle. 
Through all of this, however, one thing remains the same, 
and that is the tradition.
There are always going to be people who fit stereotypes, 
people you don’t care for, and people who change the norms. 
But what sets a sorority apart from just any other group of 
people is the history, tradition, and loyalty behind the 
meanings of each house.
Over time, I have found that this is what sisters mean ] 
when they say they are held together by a bond of “sister­
hood.” That bond doesn’t mean that they always love each 
other or have a close friendship with everyone in the house, 
but rather that they all share something special and secret 
that encourages devotion to an enormous family that has 
grown through history.
Beth Gariano is a junior creative writing major.
Cold remedy brings mayhem, malaise
The Editor’s Notebook
Editor’s Notebook presents the opin­
ion of the author only, not necessarily 
the. opinion of The Tartan or of the Edi­
torial Board.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have a cold.
Not that you should care or anything. 
What with Thanksgiving break and fi­
nals coining up. I’m surprised you’re 
even reading this column at all. Sympa­
thy for a poor, snifilihgeditor is thelast 
thing on yourmind. Just forget it, okay? 
Jeez, why is everyone attacking me?
Oops, sorry about that little outburst. 
My cold medicine must be taking effect, 
which brings me to my point: they 
changed the formula for NyQuil!
Shocking, yet true.
For those of you in reader-land who 
are not up to speed on cold medica­
tions, let mo advise you that NyQuil 
has reigned as king of its domain for 
years. As TV commercial legend has 
it, NyQuil is “the night-time, snif­
fling, sneezing, coughing, aching, 
stuffy head, fever, BO-you-can-reBt 
medicine.” Amen to that, brother, be­
cause the stuff worked. Whenever 
nasty cold symptoms hindered your 
sleep, two tablespoons ofNyQuilsent 
you deep into la-la land.
Why did NyQuil always work so 
famously? Perhaps it was the decon­
gestant, or the cough suppressant. Or 
maybe —just maybe -—it was the fact 
that dear old N yQui! checked i n at 50 
proof on the old alcohol content scale. 
That might also help explain the nice, 
warm, fuzzy feeling it gave as you 
drifted off into merciful sleep. Ah, 
NyQuil....
But enough with the walk down 
memoiry lane; I already told you that 
the good old NyQuil is no more. The 
new, ‘‘improved” formula contains ?. 
watered-down, siesified 10 percent al­
cohol. That’s 60 percent less —scandal­
ous!
I thus present you with thus heartfelt 
appeal: stand up for your rights, 
America! Buy only those cold remedies 
containing ridiculously high amounts 
of alcohol! I had to purchase some 
lameass generic store brand for my 
current malady. What can I say? Pro­
test demands sacrifice. Have we as a 
nation learned nothing from: the trav- 
eatythatis^ewGoke5? Do they expect
us consumers to sit.on our collective 
behind» while corporate lunkheads do 
the same thing to our wonder-cure, our 
savior in the night, our belouedNyQw1-- 
I don't know about you, but I'm about 
to pass the hell out.
—AbhySchif!

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPfL
Claims of rights often prove wrong
Ball
What are rights? Obviously, they are 
not something palatable or pliable, like 
hair or tofu. Neither are they something 
abstract yet commonly understood, like 
consciousness or being alive. Historically, 
rights were a concept constructed by the 
wealthy to protect them and their prop­
erty. The word later expanded to mean 
the entitlement of an individual not to be 
killed or made to suffer at the hands of 
others.
The common means of defining which 
individuals should receive this right to 
non-exploitation — skin color, gender, 
nationality, etc. — are all indefensible 
and morally irrelevant prejudices. There 
must be a rational and consistent means 
of determining whether an object should 
receive this right (my daughter) or should 
not (a rock).
Many different criteria for deserving 
rights have been put forth, including in­
telligence, potential, ability to enter into 
moral contracts, the law, appearance, and 
value to others. The first three sound 
reasonable, but are not inclusive enough,
for infants and irreversibly brain-damaged 
human beings would not be granted rights 
in these scenarios. The law, like religious 
doctrines, changes over time: e.g., slavery 
finally became illegal and out of favor with 
the church. Appearance has been the divid­
ing line in the past (if a person looks like me, 
then they deserve rights), but this does not 
separate my daughter from a mannequin.
The concept of value to others is put forth 
by those who want to include 
infants and irreversibly brain­
damaged human beings in the 
circle of the rights-deserving 
while excluding other animals.
By this argument, infants them­
selves do not possess any inher­
ent rights, but receive them only 
if valued by an adult human. Yet being 
valued by an adult human does not grant 
rights to pigs, parakeets, pet rocks, or 
Porsches. Most people would contend that 
even unvalued orphans have inherent rights. 
Therefore, rights must be based on other 
criteria.
Others would argue that people have rights 
if they belong to the species Homo Sapiens. 
However, the questions then become: Why 
should rights be deserved solely on the basis 
of a certain sequence of genes? If rights 
should be based on genes, why should the
line be drawn at the species level and not 
at gender, race, order, phylum, or king­
dom? Among the genes that determine eye 
color, gender, etc., which gene is it that 
confers rights?
It is this latter point that confuses many 
in our society who think that even one cell 
with a unique {Homo Sapiens) genetic code 
deserves the same rights as an adult. How­
ever, most people believe that a
Stud uen esctdha rgwsikhlmC 
dtnm uen oid hiFndtsoc AuludP
ugln ie AlsuglnC lsfn tuse ie dipkG
cancer cell—mutated such that its genetic 
code is unique but still Homo Sapiens — 
does not deserve rights. A thoughtful per­
son might find having their rights (or lack 
thereof) determined by a sequence of at­
oms to be a bit absurd. It is no better than 
basing rights on the pigmentation of one’s 
skin (which is also determined by the 
individual’s genetic code).
To have a consistent moral philosophy, a 
morally relevant’characteristic must be 
found that not only allows for the inclusion 
of all humans, but also distinguishes be­
tween a wax dummy and an infant. The 
only characteristic that simply and con­
sistently meets these requirements is 
the capacity for suffering. As Jeremy 
Bentham, head of the Department of 
Jurisprudence at Oxford University 
during the 19th century said in refer­
ence to his belief that not only white 
human males should be granted rights: 
“The question is not, ‘Can they reason?’ 
Nor, ‘Can they talk?’ But rather, ‘Can 
they suffer?’ ”
If a being cannot suffer, then it does 
not matter to that being what happens 
to it. For example, some computers have 
an intelligence (in many ways greater 
than any human), but these machines 
do not care whether they are turned off, 
harmed, or even destroyed. But if a 
being is sentient — able to actively 
experience pleasure and pain — then it 
does matterto that being what happens 
to it. All sentient beings deserve to have 
their interests and inherent value re­
spected. Any complete moral philoso­
phy cannot ignore these concerns.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in EPP. 
For a fuller treatment of this topic, please 
see the ALA pamphlet Beyond Might 
Makes Right.
New members of Congress offer change
Ronak Singhal
In the months leading up to the 
recent midterm elections, MOST 
of the Republican candidates for 
the House of Representatives ran 
together on a populist platform 
that they said they would imple­
ment if voters gave them a major­
ity in the House.
For the most part, this was dis­
missed as just another campaign 
stunt, especially since the Re­
publican party had not had con­
trol of the House in over 40 years. 
But now, after the historic elec­
tion in which the Republicans 
have been given control of both 
houses of Congress, they face the 
challenge of living up to the plat­
form that they ran on.
The platform that the candi­
dates signed is known as the “Con­
tract with America” and contains 
10 bills. These bills are highly 
popular with the public and, for 
the most part, highly unpopular 
with Democrats, especially Presi­
dent Bill Clinton.
So, what’s covered in this con­
tract? Here’s a rundown:
The Balanced Budget 
Amendment
This plank calls for a Constitu­
tional amendment requiring Con­
gress to balance the government’s 
budget within seven years of pas­
sage of the amendment. The first 
step in having this amendment 
ratified is passage in both Houses 
of Congress. After that, it must 
be ratified by the states, so even 
if it were to be passed today by 
the House, it is unlikely it would 
take effect for several years.
The main point of contention 
here is whether it is necessary for 
a government to have a balanced 
budget; in other words, is having 
some debt necessarily a bad 
thing? Think about when people 
have to buy a house. In most 
cases, they have to get mortgages 
to pay for it. These are a form of 
debt. Obviously, it is not prudent 
for a government to fall deeply in 
debt and have a budget deficit, so 
action must be taken against the 
bloated size of government today 
and its wasteful spending. But 
the ratification of a balanced bud­
get amendment could hinder the 
economic growth of our country 
by either forcing taxes to be raised 
to meet revenue shortfalls or cut­
ting needed infrastructure pro­
grams.
A New Crime Bill
The crime bill passed this sum­
mer by Congress was another ex­
ample of Democrats aimlessly 
throwing money into social pro­
grams without really trying to
solve the problem at hand. The 
crime bill being proposed by the 
Republicans would cut the social 
spending in this summer’s bill, 
while also implementing tougher 
penalties on criminals, especially 
regarding the death penalty. This 
will finally give Republicans their 
attempt to curb crime through 
tough laws, not a lot of wasted 
money.
Welfare Reform
This bill would cut off welfare 
aid to minors who are mothers 
and would not increase the wel­
fare payments to people on wel­
fare who continue to have chil­
dren. In addition, welfare recipi­
ents could only receive money for 
two years and then they would 
have to work.
This bill seeks to partially dis­
mantle one of the pillars of the 
Great Society of Lyndon J ohnson. 
By cutting off aid to minor par­
ents, it is hoped that teen preg­
nancies will be discouraged. In 
addition, this bill seeks to restore 
individual responsibility by forc­
ing people to go out and earn 
money themselves instead of liv­
ing off of tax dollars.
Legal Reform
This issue first took prominence 
when Dan Quayle spoke out 
against American lawyers; now, 
a bill has been proposed that seeks 
to limit the number of suits
brought about in our society 
where people can now make mil­
lions by saying their coffee was 
too hot. This bill would force the 
loser to pay in certain fypes of 
lawsuits, thus forcing people to 
think twice before engaging in 
frivolous cases. One of the most 
important effects of such a bill 
would be on health reform. Dur­
ing last year’s long debate on 
health reform, the high cost of 
care was continually mentioned. 
One reason for this is because of 
the unnecessary testing that is 
conducted out of fear of malprac­
tice suits. This bill would help 
stem these suits and could prove 
to be the best health reform plan 
we have.
Term Limits
This is a very popular idea with 
most people, especially conserva­
tives, but I remain against it. 
Consider this month’s election; 
Dan Ros-tenkowski, Jack Brooks, 
Tom Foley, and many other in­
cumbents who had served for over 
25 years were removed from of­
fice, not by some law, but by the 
will of the voters. To force people 
to retire from office because of 
length of service would remove a 
voter’s right to have a true repre­
sentative government.
Job Creation
This bill seeks a return to the 
economics of the 1980s that
proved to be the greatest period 
of job and economic growth in our 
nation’s history. The centerpiece 
of this bill is a cut in the capital 
gains tax. Republicans have ar­
gued for years that cutting this 
tax actually increases revenue 
because it spurs investment; 
based on the figures from the 
Reagan era, they seem to be right. 
This could be the first step in 
cutting the deficit while reviving 
the somewhat sluggish Ameri­
can economy.
There are four other proposed 
bills in the contract that deal with 
issues such as senior citizens and 
the American role in the United 
Nations, but the bills listed above 
will receive the greatest amount 
of attention in the days to come.
The Republicans made a cam­
paign pledge to the American 
people to enact a series of bills 
they feel would greatly improve 
our nation. Voters have now given 
Republicans the chance to make 
good on their promise. Failure to 
pass these bills could give Bill 
Clinton a very easy victory in 
1996, but if the Republicans do 
pass them, the President is faced 
with the hard reality of either 
signing bills he does not approve 
of or vetoing them and facing the 
wrath of the voters in 1996.
Ronak Singhal is a sophomore 
in ECE who thinks the worst 
movie line ever is “Groovy. ”
Perry Mason cracks ‘Case of the Spoiled Juice’
(WoCTo O^A
Jason Togyer
[With sincere apologies to the memories 
°f Erie Stanley Gardner and Raymond 
Burr.]
Judge Lance Ito turned a sleepy eye on 
the darkly handsome, broad-shouldered 
roan standing near O. J. Simpson’s chair. 
Mr. Mason, can we please dispense with 
the theme music?”
Perry Mason bowed to the judge. “Beg- 
your pardon, your honor, but I have 
to put on a good show for the newspaper 
boys.” He waved his hand at the rear of 
the courtroom, where a disheveled group 
°frnen, wearing fedoras and holding Speed 
Graphic cameras, sat amidst the televi­
sion crews.
“That may be,” Ito growled, “but I won’t
haveyou turning my courtroom into a
media circus!” Mason nodded, and the 
Pounding jazz music abruptly stopped.
“You may continue your cross-examina­
tion, Mr. Mason,” Ito said. The door at the 
¡¦ear of the room opened, and a stocky man 
111 a plaid sportcoat entered.
“Your Honor,” Mason said, “may I beg 
e court’s indulgence for one minute? I’d 
te to consult with my associate.” Ito 
Nodded.
Paul Drake handed Mason an file folder, 
t s all in there, Perry,” he whispered. 
Did you make that phone call to New 
i 01'k?” Mason asked, glancing through
the
Ük(
the folder.
“Yes,” Drake replied, “although Gertie had 
a little trouble tracking him down.” Mason 
winked at him and turned back to Brian 
“Kato” Kaelin, who sat fidgeting on the wit­
ness stand.
“Mr. Kaelin, is it true that you worked for 
a DNA research laboratory in Buffalo, New 
York under the name ‘John “Kato” Doe?’“ he 
asked. District Attorney Hamilton Burger 
lept to his feet, scattering papers all over the
TkDcn Ldi dkeonD u hlnnAm nmn 
io dtn Dueflm tuoDhiFn Fuo 
hduoDsoc onue rGTG Hh \tuseG
lap of Assistant D.A. Marcia Clark.
“Your Honor, I object to this line of ques­
tioning,” he whined. “This is improper, irrel­
evant, immaterial, and incompetent cross- 
examination! Mr. Kaelin isn’t on trial here!” 
“Overruled,” the judge pronounced, “but 
you’d better get to the point fairly quickly, 
Mr. Mason. The witness may answer the 
question.”
Kaelin fidgeted on the stand. “Well, maybe, 
dude. Yeah, I did,” he said. Mason moved 
closer, smiled.
“That gave you access to all of the library’s 
materials, didn’t it?”
“Sure, I guess so,” said Kaelin.
“I believe that the Buffalo public library 
has well over a million members,” Mason 
said. “Is that correct?”
“I dunno,” said Kaelin.
“We heard Lieutenant Tragg of the Los 
Angeles Police Department say that the 
chances were one in a million that two 
DNA ‘fingerprints’ would be identical, 
didn’t we?” Kaelin nodded. “Isn’t true that 
you examined each book in the Buffalo 
library system for human skin cells or 
traces of blood and saliva? And didn’t you 
use DNA fingerprinting on each of those 
samples until you found one that matched
_________ your own?”
“What?” Kaelin said, sweat­
ing profusely, “Like, how 
would I know who those 
samples were from, lawyer 
dude?”
“Because one book in the 
===== library had only been checked 
out by one Buffalo resident, 
many times — and that book contained 
the DNA whose fingerprint matched your 
own! If Judge Ito would open the sealed 
envelope that he was given a few months 
ago by the defense, I believe he’ll find it 
inside: it’s ‘The House on Pooh Comer,’ by 
A.A. Milne,” Mason said. Judge Ito opened 
the envelope. “I’d like to enter that book as 
defense exhibit 54,678.”
“Do you know who the man was who 
repeatedly checked that book out, Mr. 
Kaelin?” Mason asked. Kato shook his 
head. “Of course you do. That man was my 
client, Mr. Simpson. Yousearched through­
out the books in the Buffalo Public Library 
until you found someone you could frame 
for a future crime, when it suited your 
purposes.”
Kaelin began to sob. “Isn’t it true that 
you own a number of shares in Avis 
Rent-a-Car, and that by hurting Mr. 
Simpson, you thought you could drive 
the value of Hertz Rent-a-Car stock 
down?” Mason said, somewhat disgust­
edly.
“Yes! It’s all true,” Kaelin blurted. 
“And if it wasn’t for those lousy kids, I 
would have gotten away with it!”
“I don’t understand, Chief,” said Della 
Street later, at Perry Mason’s law of­
fices, as she fixed martinis with secre­
tarial solicitude. “Who did Paul call?” 
“Howard Cosell, Della,” said Mason. 
“Mr. Simpson told him during a televi­
sion interview in 1976 that his favorite 
book was The House on Pooh Corner.’ ” 
“But how did you connect Mr. Kaelin 
to Buffalo?” Street asked. “Or to Avis?” 
“It was very complicated,” said Mason. 
“I had Paul do that offstage, during one 
of the commercial breaks.”
“I’ve got to hand it to you, Mason,” 
said Drake. “You sure do pull rabbits 
out of your hat.”“That’s right,” said 
Street. “It’s a good thing that Mr. 
Simpson fired all that high-priced legal 
talent and hired you instead. I sure did 
think he was as guilty as Cain. Only 
some tricky footwork by Perry Mason 
could have gotten him acquitted.” 
“Well, you know what I always say, 
Della,” Mason said, his eyes twinkling. 
“I may be number two, but I try harder!”
Jason Togyer is a junior English ma­
jor.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief......Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed. .Samuel Greenfield
Business Manager...........Amlt Kar
News Ed.......................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor..................AbbySchiff
Sports Editor.................Eric Strauss
Features Editor.........Eric Salzman
Diversions Editor ....Kathy Wright
Calendar Ed.........Jonmichael Moy
Dossier Literary Ed. Lauren Heinz 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Home
Art Co-Editors.............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor..................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr.......Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr........Angela Molloy
Copy Mgr................Richard Smolen
Systems Mgr........Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed..........Kris Hinrlchs
Asst. Sports Ed. Matthew Solltro
Asst. Features Ed............Allie King
Asst. Div. Ed. ...Paul Tabachneck
Asst. Prod. Mgr.........Derek Wahila
Darkroom Mgr.......Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Manager. David Perry
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Ken Kraemer, Declan 
McCullagh, Andrew McDermott
Staffwriters 
Jason Andracki, John Biggs, Max 
Chittister, Carey Clevenger, 
Mahua Dutta, Shannon Gibney, 
Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, Vladimir 
Labeikovsky, Deena Newsom, 
Ronak Singhal, Jon Slenk, James 
Stepanek, Bethany Sutton, Bill 
Vandermark, Sharmila 
Venkatasubbeen, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Susan Watson, John 
Weber, Heather Zindel
Art
Justin Carroll, Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskill, 
Nick Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, 
Mark Kantrowitz, Christopher 
Nelson, Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
VlneetAgarwal.TusharDubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, An­
drew Flores, Janet Lee, Pat 
Prasangsit, Jason Siegendorf, 
Jackson Tam, Marla Valenti, Cheryl 
Viaud, Natalie Wochele
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings
Production 
Roula Abdel-Bakl, Heather 
Alexander, Kathy Liu, Jason Ma, 
Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lee Abernathy, Darren Chirapetta, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Lori Jurgovsky, Winter 
Mason, Diane Ohm, fSyijavishak, 
Roger Wang
Business
Christa Bower, Chlntan Shah
Junior Staff 
David Brannlng, Steven Burns, 
Seth A. Covitz, Manoo Halatl, Adam 
Klivans, Ron Kurti, Rolf Nelli, John 
Fletcher, Lester Manzano, David 
Osorio, Nicole Polsson, Emily 
Rosenthal, Caleb Sldel, Danlella 
Topol, Daniel Yanger
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn­
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa­
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It is printed by West­
ern Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi­
cal cartoons are the opinions of Individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num­
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters 
be no longer than'500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright © 1994 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy It deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN tt: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

HEYCMU 
STUDENTS!
Are you looking for some 
LIVE ACTION this winter?
SCHENLEY PARK 
ICE SKATING RINK
• gives you some exercise
• is cheap
• is a great group activity
• has a pumping sound system!
You can also rent the ice for parties 
and hockey. There is a party room available for 
fraternity and sorority functions — whatever!
It's cheap and within walking distance of Skibo.
(For more information, call 422-6547)
COLLEGE I.D. NIGHT
FROM 9:30 to 11:30 EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT
and also l:30-3:30pm EVERY WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
The special rate is $ 1.50 for admission 
and $ 1.50 for skate rental.
TOTAL OUTLAY: $3.00
CALL 422-6547 FOR A COMPLETE 
LISTING OF RINK HOURS.
682 - 7272 (PAPA)
4643 Baum Boulevard 
Near North Craig Street
Delivers to CMU 
On and Off Campus!
— Open Everyday— 
11 am to 2 am
r-Large Pizza 
Only
6.49 + IAX$
Add pepperoni 
(or any topping of your choice) for only 50?
FREE Breadsticks& 
Large 2 Toppings
»7.97+TAX
L.
Ü 18
ATTENTION JUNIORS
The H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and 
Management
presents
3-1-1 Information Luncheon
Wednesday, November 30,1994 
12:30 p.m.
Hamburg Hall, Room 1004
Come join us and learn more about:
<=> Master of Science
With Concentrations available In:
Management
Financial Management and Analysis 
Management Information Systems 
Economic Development and Urban Planning 
Policy Analysis
Independently Structured Concentration
^ Master of Arts Management 
<> Master of Information Systems for Public 
Policy and Management
The Heinz School faculty and staff will be available to tell you more 
about the 3-1-1 Program which allows you to enter the Heinz School 
as a senior, and earn a master’s degree in one additional year of 
study.
RSVP Required
Phone: X8-2164 - e-mail: heinz.admissions
WATCH U5 
Mi IT OH 
OTDM
» VOUJt TONCOf ON A 410T IMP!
MOW US (I0UA VALID (DIO I.D. (AAI> AMD Will 
TAAA 2C"/o OH Of 00A LUNC4IIMO PAIffil 
ALSO, (AKA00T 00« NiWCT LOCATION 
IN TAl NOATA AIUS. NOW OWN.
VOTO ONDIMI« “ABI IMXKAN AfSTAUAANT" AU 
AOTA III PITTSAUAdA AND PITTSAUAdA MCAZINi.
|1|
m\>m
i M «n of moon ii. » me n. in law. EditoEoE 
oh Minai! «w. nos non r:Sc me. acc-cecc

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Men’s basketball wins tournament
py JOHN FLETCHER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU men’s basketball team fared 
very well at the West Penn Classic this 
weekend. In fact, the Tartans placed 
first in the tournament for the second 
time in three years by defeating Wash­
ington & Jefferson College 74—69 on 
Friday and Grove City College 72-70 on 
Saturday.
“We won both games, but it wasn’t our 
best performance,” said head coach Tony 
Wingen. “We didn’t play the way we’re 
capable of playing, but it was a good 
weekend.”
Junior forward Kevin Byrne was 
named the tournament MVP, and junior 
forward Jon Blanciak was named to the 
all-tournament team.
In the win over Washington & 
Jefferson on Friday, Byrne had 31 points 
and grabbed 12 rebounds, and Blanciak 
scored 11 points and pulled down 12 
rebounds.
In the win over Grove City, Byrne had 
19 points and 5 rebounds, and Blanciak 
15 points and 10 rebounds.
“Byrne is the guy we are expecting to 
handle the scoring, and we are going to 
give the ball to him a lot,” said Wingen of 
the 6’6” forward.
Also contributing a good performance 
this weekend was senior point guard 
Steve Athanas, a veteran leader who 
made some big plays down the stretch in 
both games.
“Steve’s leadership has been really 
good up to this point; he is really taking 
control of the team,” said Wingen of the 
third-year player. “He is definitely a 
captain of the team.”
Sophomore guard Rich Bodnar and 
junior guard Gregg Lassan also had solid 
performances this weekend.
“Bodnar played well, even though he 
didn’t shoot as well we are expecting 
him to, and Lassan had a couple of good
games off the bench,” said Wingen.
As mentioned last week, two keys to 
whether the Tartans win or lose are 
defense and rebounding.
The team had strong rebounding this 
weekend, but their defense was not up to 
par. The Tartans out-rebounded their 
opponents by an average of 7.5 rebounds 
per game.
“We didn’t play defense too well over 
the weekend, but that [rebounding] was 
the area of our defense that was good,” 
said Wingen. “We are hoping for the 
defense to step up and carry us through 
the season.”
Two years ago, the Tartans won both
games in the West Penn Classic, and 
finished the year with a 16-8 record.
“We are hoping that [winning both 
games] will put us off to a good start this 
season,” said Wingen.
The Tartans will play their first home 
game Saturday, November 26, versus 
Alma College. The game will be at 3 pm 
in Skibo Gym as part of the CMU invita­
tional. Also participating are SUNY- 
Oswego and Washington & Lee. The 
consolation and championship game will 
be at 1 pm and 3 pm, respectively.
The Tartans will play their first UAA 
home game December 2 versus Emory 
University.
Tartan women host Tip Off tourney
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Senior Jenny Gretz is a blur of motion with 
the ball against Bethany College.
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter 
& MATTHEW SOLITRO
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The CMU women’s basketball team 
began their season by hosting their Tip 
Off Tournament. On Saturday, they de­
feated Bethany College 56-50 to move 
on to the championship game where 
they played Muskigum College, who 
defeated Southwestern University by a 
score of 71-56.
In the tournament championship game 
on Sunday, the Tartan’s lost to 
Muskingum 66—52. A big first half was 
the key for Muskingum as they jumped 
to a 32-20 lead.
“We started out real well,” said head 
coach Gerri Seidl. “We gave them a good 
first ten minutes, but then they got a 
pretty big lead.”
Sophomore Kristen Kupfer led the of­
fensive effort of the Tartans with 15 
points. She was 5-7 from the field, 1-1 
from 3-point range, and 4-4 from the 
line with seven rebounds.
“She had a great game yesterday,” 
said Seidl. “In the first half today, she 
was a little worried when she picked up 
a few early fouls. But she got back in and 
played well. She gets the job done.” 
Senior co-captain Jenny Gretz tallied 
14 points as she shot 4r-14 from the field 
and 4-4 from the line. Sophomore 
Rebecca McCadney crashed the boards
for eight total rebounds.
Amongst the talented 
freshmen who have been 
making an impact is Jackie 
Autieri, who scored six points 
on Sunday. “She adds a whole 
new dimension to the 
game,”said Seidl. “She’s a re­
ally smart player.”
“I was really pleased with 
the intensity of our team,” 
said Seidl. “They didn’t cave 
in, but we have a lot of teach­
ing to do with these young 
players.”
The loss brought the
Please see TIP OFF, page 11
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Guard Kelly Gaitens helped the Tartans’ defense hold 
Bethany to 17-91 shooting.
Coach pleased with team despite losses
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Sports Editor 
& NICOLE POISSON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Although the CMU swim teams have 
not met with much success in the won- 
lost department this season, they are 
meeting their coach’s standards in re­
gard to improvement.
“I am the happiest coach in the coun­
try with [a] combined record of 1-8,” 
according to Jim Cutrone, the head coach 
for both the men’s and women’s team. 
“We are swimming very well, and our 
upperclassmen are demonstrating their 
leadership.”
The men’s team dropped two meets 
last week, falling to Westminster on 
Thursday, 123-82, and losing a close 
contest against UAA rival Case Western 
Reserve on Saturday, 103-101. That 
leaves the team with a 1-3 record.
“In the Westminster meet, we didn’t 
get things together until the second half, 
but we pulled ourselves together, and 
swam well,” said junior Geoff Waller.
“Our relays are looking great, and we 
have a much stronger team than we did 
last year. The freshmen are swimming 
really well.”
Against Westminster, junior George 
Schmidt won the 200-yard butterfly in 
2:02, and teammate Wayne Nickles, a 
freshman, finished third in 2:06. Waller,
against Case Western, though their ef­
forts were in vain. Junior Matt Moe won 
the 200-yard butterfly and the 500-yard 
freestyle, and finished second in the 
1,000-yard freestyle.
McGuire won the 100-yard freestyle 
and finished second in the 200-yard in­
dividual medley. Schmidt (100-yard but-
“I am the happiest coach in the country with 
[a] combined record of 1-8. We are swim­
ming very well, and our upperclassmen are 
demonstrating their leadership. ”
— Jim Cutrone, CMU swimming coach
junior Mike Berty, and two freshmen, 
Jake McGuire and Mike Foster, com­
bined to finish second in the 400-yard 
freestyle relay. Their time was 3:17.
A number of swimmers performed well
terfly) and Foster (50-yard freestyle) both 
picked up wins.
Junior Jeff Milton finished second in 
the 200-yard freestyle.
The 400-yard freestyle relay team of
freshmen George Matcuk and 
Hunter Payne, Berty, and sopho­
more Chris O’Rourke also picked 
up first place in its event.
Meanwhile, the women’s team 
is still seeking its first win of the 
year after losing to Westminster 
106—94, and Case Western, 117— 
77.
Against Westminster, senior 
Sarah Broadley won the 50-yard 
freestyle, and two relay teams — 
the 400-yardmedley and 400-yard 
freestyle teams — got wins. CMU 
also got third place in the 400- 
yard medley relay.
Against Case Western, junior 
Rebecca Fruehan won three 
events, the 1,000-yard and 500- 
yard freestyles and the 200-yard 
breaststroke. Freshman Jen 
DeFlippo won the 200-yard back­
stroke.
The teams return to action on 
December 2-3, in a tri-college meet 
against Johns Hopkins University 
and Gettysburg College.
Tartan file photo
The CMU women’s swim team is seeking its 
first win of the season.
Crew concludes fall season
By BILL WALTON Jr.
Special to The Tartan
The Carnegie Mellon Rowing 
Club, coached by Liz Winter, has 
high hopes for their spring sea- 
son after taking three medals in 
three races at the Head of the 
Occoquan, the team’s last fall 
race. The Men’s Varsity Heavy­
weight four took a bronze medal, 
the Women’s Novice four took a 
silver and the Men’s Novice four 
took the gold.
The Men’s Varsity Heavy­
weight earned their bronze by 
finishing fourth in the champion­
ship category, the regatta’s hard­
est category. Their 17:40 time 
was bettered by only two colleges, 
George Mason and Marietta, as 
well as by the first place Balti­
more Rowing Club. The boat con­
sisted of seniors SorenRoth, John 
posnek, John Pasewicz and jun­
iors George Scott and Dan High­
lands, the coxswain.
In the Women’s Novice divi- 
8i°n, a time of 21:26 minutes 
earned the Novice four a silver 
medal. Rowing were sophomores 
Amanda Talbott and Gina 
Schuyler, freshman Jennie Kolar, 
,and junior Amy Haupl. Senior 
Chris Maples coxed. Roth, the 
club president, said that “this was 
a strong showing for our women’s
team, especially consideringtheir 
limited numbers. They lost to 
Capital Rowing Club, so they were 
first among collegiate teams — 
truly a good sign for the spring.” 
Pasewicz, the men’s team cap­
tain, attributes the success of the 
first place Men’s Novice four, 
which he calls “the most outstand­
ing achievement of our team in 
recent years,” to the dedication of 
fourth year architecture student 
Kevin Luczkow, the volunteer 
Novice coach. Their winning time 
was 18:24,29 seconds betterthan
second place St. John’s College. 
Rowing for the Novice four were 
freshmen Urs Batzel, Jeff Willey, 
Martin Sweitzer and sophomore 
Todd Stevenson. Coxing was 
freshman Tushar Dubey.
Crew is preparing for its spring 
sprint season by moving into in­
tense winter training. Roth is 
particularly pleased about the 
prospects for the spring, noting 
that the second and fourth place 
finishes were quite competitive 
among other colleges, their pri­
mary opponents in the spring.
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Bowlers begins first season
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Somewhere between its in­
vention and present time, bowl­
ing seems to have lost its cred­
ibility as a sport. Many people 
have allowed the image of big 
hair and men smiling in purple 
satin shirts to cloud the true 
beauty of the game. In fact, the 
game is a true mix of skill and 
knowledge; of thought and of 
self-actualization. Like any 
other sport, one must be com­
pletely conscious of one’s own 
faults, and each roll of the 
ball requires a precon­
ception of where 
the ball will %
go, and how it 
will get there.
One must ac­
count for the 
slickness of the “ * 
lane, the weight of 
the ball, and the spin 
on one’s throw, if he or 
she intends to be a good 
bowler.
Now, thanks to the initiative 
of career counselor John 
Michalenko, the bowling team 
has finally become a Carnegie 
Mellon reality. Having received 
funding from Student Affairs,
Business Services, and the Ath­
letic Department, they now have 
the ability to enter tournaments 
across the nation, sending five or 
six of CMU’s best bowlers to duke 
it out with bowlers from other 
colleges, for scholarship money 
(between $150 and 
$750) to use for their 
team’s activities 
fund. So
State University BowlingTour- 
nament, went to sophomore 
Gerald Ng (204.2), followed by 
sophomore Gene Tabone 
(202.0). In a group of 85 stu­
dents from 10 colleges, the two 
ranked 29th and 32nd, respec­
tively, not at all a bad start for 
a first-year team.
The team practices at For­
ward Lanes in Squirrel Hill, 
with money from their own 
pockets, every Thursday 
afternoon.
According to Mi­
chalenko, ideas are in 
the works for a CMU 
tourney, and a Big 
10-type conference 
may also be in the 
stars for college 
bowling.
Their next outing 
will be a four-day 
marathon of bowl­
ing, first at the At­
lantic City Invita­
tional (Dec 27-28), 
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor and then at the 
Brunswick North­
east Showdown in Turners ville, 
NJ (December 29-30).
If all goes well, perhaps the 
team will eventually qualify for 
the National Qualifiers in Nor­
folk, VA.
far, they’ve only played in two, 
and while they won neither, 
they’ve been improving their av­
erages with time.
Their highest average in their 
most recent venture, the Kent

---------------------------------------------------

mHtud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPf
Run-and-shoot offenses getting sacked in NFL
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
Last week, the owner of the Houston 
Oilers, Bud Adams, fired Oilers’ head 
coach Jack Pardee and offensive coordi­
nator Kevin Gilbride, one of the coaches 
who introduced the “run-and-shoot” of­
fense to the NFL back at the end of the 
last decade. A revolutionary offensive 
scheme at the time of its inception, sev­
eral basic problems have brought about 
the near extinction of the offense in 
recent years. In fact, after this firing, the 
Detroit Lions are now the only team in 
;the NFL that uses the “run-and-shoot” 
!on every offensive down.
The run-and-shoot is basically the two- 
minute offense played throughout the 
entire game. In the run-and-shoot for­
mation there is one running back, no 
tight end and four wide receivers. The 
quarterback frequently works out of the 
shotgun, but can take snaps from the 
line. When Kevin Gilbride introduced 
this offense in Houston, several other 
teams in the NFL followed. First came 
¡the Lions, and then Glanville took the 
!run and shoot with him to Atlanta in the 
form of the “red gun.” Several other 
teams began pondering the idea of this 
new offense, but then the run-and-shoot
began to show signs of failure. The fail­
ure of the run-and-shoot is due to three 
reasons. First, it has some basic flaws. 
Second, it has some flexibility problems. 
Third, and most surprising, those who 
executed the run-and-shoot did not al­
ways practice what they preached.
The first basic problem is that, like 
any other offense, the run-and-shoot 
needs talented players to be executed 
properly. The Oilers had Warren Moon 
and a great corps of receivers a few years 
ago, but were a little short at running 
back with Lorenzo White and Gary 
Brown. The Lions have Barry Sanders 
and Herman Moore, but they have had 
quarterback troubles for a long time.
The second basic problem with this 
offense is that it is not designed to sit on 
a lead. Against the Bills two years ago, 
the Oilers had a 35-3 halftime lead. The 
Bills roared back in the second half in 
the biggest comeback in pro football his­
tory to win the game by three points. 
What happened? Well, the Bills found 
out how to beat the Oiler defense to get 
points, but also the Oilers’ run-and-shoot 
offense was unable to sustain long, suc­
cessful, time-consuming drives. If you 
think about it, that makes sense: what 
team using a normal offensive scheme 
plays their two-minute offense when they 
are up by 32 points? But in the run and 
shoot, you’re in the two-minute offense 
formation whether you’re ahead, behind, 
or tied.
The second major problem with the 
run-and-shoot is that it is not flexible. 
When coaches recently started to change 
the run-and-shoot offense so that the 
offense could hold onto a lead, it no
longer was the run-and-shoot offense. 
For example, early last year, the Oilers 
started to use more short high percent­
age passes for ball control and to hold 
onto leads. However, this offense was no 
longer the run-and-shoot. In addition, 
teams were able to contain this new 
conservative offensive approach and cut 
down its effectiveness. Only by opening 
up and spreading out the defense were
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
the Oilers able to get back on track.
The final major problem with the run 
and shoot, and the reason Gilbride was 
fired, is that the run-and-shoot forma­
tion cannot be modified. More recently, 
even Gilbride had gotten away from the 
pure run-and-shoot offense. He put a 
tight end in the lineup and seldom had 
the quarterback in the shotgun forma­
tion. In some situations, he even put two 
running backs in the backfield. Once 
you start bringing back the tight end
and the blocking back, you are no longer 
playing the run-and-shoot. However, 
there are two reasons that Gilbride did 
this. First, when the run-and-shoot 
started out, it was effective because it 
caught most defenses by surprise. Since 
there were four wide receivers, fre­
quently the Oilers could expect one of 
the four to be covered by a much slower 
linebacker. However, in the last few 
years, Cleveland and Pittsburgh have 
reacted to the presence of Houston’s 
run-and-shoot by drafting several 
comerbacks who enable them to play 
nickel and dime defenses against Hous­
ton. Second, the run-and-shoot features 
a passing attack, which doesn’t always 
work best on third or fourth and short 
situations.
So, is the run and shoot dead now that 
Gilbride has been fired? No —just about 
every team uses a run-and-shoot forma­
tion when faced with a third and long 
situation. However, in years to come, 
few teams will use the run-and-shoot 
during the entire game like the Oilers 
have in the last few years.
Week 11 was a week of upsets and it 
cost me. I only picked two of five games 
thanks to upsets of the Eagles, Dolphins 
and Chiefs. My record for the year is now 
24—21 (53.3 percent).
Top Five Picks for Week 13
1. Green Bay at Dallas (Thanks­
giving)
Call me insane, call me crazy; I’ve 
been called worse. But the Packers are 
going to pull this one out! Expect a 
sloppy game with plenty of defense right
down to the end. Packers 17-15.
2. Miami at N.Y. Jets
For some mysterious reason, the Jets 
always play well against the Dolphins. 
Add to this the fact that the Dolphins 
have no healthy running backs on their 
roster, and you’re looking at a big defen. 
sive effort from the Jets. Jets 24-17.
3. Pittsburgh at L.A. Raiders
The Steelers have actually won a few 
games against the Raiders in Los Ange- 
les. The one that comes to mind is 1984 
when the Steelers defeated the Raiders 
in the final week of the season to win the 
division. The Raiders offense will be 
disorganized and will have trouble scor­
ing. Steelers 21-16.
4. Philadelphia at Atlanta
Falcon’s quarterback Jeff George prob­
ably has the strongest arm in the NFL. 
The Eagles have been up and down this 
year and have had trouble in big games. 
However, Cunningham should look good 
against the Falcon defense, so expect a 
high scoring game. Eagles 38-28.
5. N.Y. Giants at Washington
The Giants have slipped under the 
door mat of the NFL.. Since winning 
their first three games, it seems like 
they’ve been walked all over by every­
one. By the way, who’s this Gus Frerotte 
character quarterbacking the Redskins? 
I’ll take the Redskins and Frerotte at 
home in an upset. Redskins 17-9.
John Weber is a senior civil engineer­
ing major.
Hockey club suffers first loss to end first half
By ERIC APPLEWHITE 
& COREY ZINN
Special to The Tartan
Saturday night, the CMU 
.Hockey Team took on the divi- 
Ision-leading Gators of Allegheny 
inMeadville. The Tartans knew 
it was going to be a tough game, 
especially without star senior 
defenseman P.J. Mann, who did 
not play.
There were problems right from 
the start, as senior captain John 
Cardillo was having trouble with 
,the blades on his skates. While 
his skates were getting resharp­
ened, the lines were hurriedly 
rearranged.
Allegheny struck first with nine 
minutes remaining in the first. 
Soon after, Cardillo returned to
the game. Although both sides 
took some quality shots, both 
teams failed to score during the 
rest of the first period.
It took only three minutes into 
the second period before Allegh­
eny jumped to a 2-0 lead. The 
score remained there for most of 
the second, until Cardillo back- 
handed a nice shot into the net to 
close the gap to 2-1 with 1:12 
remaining. Graduate student 
Tom Sullivan had the only assist.
CMU has typically been a third 
period team this season, so being 
down by one goal going into the 
third was no disaster.
However, only 27 seconds into 
the third, Allegheny struck again 
to make it 3-1. Good defensive 
play and decent goal tending kept 
the score there for another seven
minutes, when Allegheny took a 
4—1 advantage with 9:31 remain­
ing.
Although down by three goals, 
the Tartans did not give up. They 
continued to crash the net and 
managed to keep the puck in the 
Gators’ zone for long stretches of 
time.
It paid off when, with 5:05 re­
maining, sophomore Jim Buck 
sent one home from 10 feet out on 
a power play, assisted by seniors 
Phil Beck and Dan Kodesh.
CMU had a few more chances, 
but failed to score again until 
junior Roger Maddalena muscled 
his way into the zone along the 
boards and took a nice shot to 
make it 4-3, but with only one 
second remaining.
With 4—3 being the final score,
the Tartans lost their first game 
of the season, and it was the first 
game this year in which the Tar­
tans were outshot (28-24).
The Tartans finished the first 
half of the season with this disap­
pointing loss. It was a game that 
could have been won, but CMU 
did not play their best hockey.
Once again, they did pick it up 
in the third period but it was not 
enough against a good team like 
Allegheny, who remains in first 
place in the Western division of 
the Western Pennsylvania Col­
lege Hockey Association as the 
league takes its mid-season 
break.
The Tartans’ record is now 3-
1—1 overall and 2—1—1 in the 
league: They did not play a sched­
uled game on Friday.Eric Strauss/Tartan Sports Editor
Final 1994 Carnegie Mellon University football statistics
Results (7-3-0; 3-1-0 in UAA):Offensive StatisticsKicking Statistics
Carnegie Mellon 36, Franklin & Marshall 0Rushing Statistics (min. 25 yards)PlayerPunts Avg.XP/XPAFG/FGA
Allegheny 37, Carnegie Mellon 22PlayerAtt.Yds.LongAvg.TDFrank Triggiani47 37.30/1
Carnegie Mellon 30, Rhodes 3Jason Grusky191863294.513Todd Smith26/312/2
Carnegie Mellon 31, Juniata 7Mike Mathias90458355.15Matt Jarock8/101/1
U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 30, Carnegie Mellon 22Chris Neupaver23172407.51
Washington (Mo.) 36, Carnegie Mellon 25Lee Anton36167264.61Return Statistics
Carnegie Mellon 44, U. of Chicago 6Dave Soltysik30150235.00Kick Return Statistics (min. 3 returns)
Carnegie Mellon 27, Rochester 13Buck Neel32120253.82Player No.Yds. LongTDAvg.
Carnegie Mellon 55, Grove City 20Keith Dickerson14120298.61Buck Neel 11194 33017.6
Carnegie Mellon 50, Case Western Reserve 8Jim Filicko1693185.81Mike Mathias 561 20012.2
Tyson Baker632135.31Jim Filicko 358 23019.3
Chris Dee452870.60Punt Return Statistics (min. 2 returns)
Team StatisticsPlayer No.Yds. LongTDAvg.
StatisticCMUOpp.Rob Locke 32355 79111.1
First Downs193153Passing Statistics (min. 5 attempts)
Rushing Attempts 489351PlayerCmp.Att.YardsLongTD/Int.Pet.Defensive Statistics
Rushing Yards2,2221,233Chris Dee941761,2814617/953.4PlayerSacks (min. 2 sacks)
Rushing TDs258Dave Soltysik2351324502/245.1E.J. Tsangaris5
Comp.-Att.-Int.122-234-11138-277-17Keith Dickerson45128401/080.0Mark Kasperowicz3
Passing Yards1,7421,419Receiving Statistics (min. 5 catches)Demitrius Carrothers3
Passing TDs2011PlayerNo.Yds.LongAvg.TDChad Heald2.5
Total Yards3,9642,652Mike Mathias283463912.48Todd McManus2.5
Third Downs59/13442/138Aaron Neal222794612.71Anima Nwanko2.5
Percentage4430Matt Neiss172784016.42PlayerInterceptions (min. 2 interceptions)
Sacks2520Ricardo Parrish122555021.35Nathan Morgan5 (1 touchdown)
Punts4757Buck Neel12102178.50Rob Locke4
Average37.335.6Jason Grusky980248.91Avinash Barat2
Penalties/Yards54/52846/395Casey Smith51063421.21Joe Ferris2
Avg. Time of Poss. 33:1226:48Jim Filicko51024020.41
ADMINISTRATION
IM Director: Mike Mastroianni, 
X8-2214 
Asst. Director: Mike Grzy- 
winski, 683-2938 
IM Secretary: Michelle Matta, 
X8-2053 
President: Jim Saxon, x2-3872 
Vice President: Matt Williams, 
X2-2490 
Women’s President: Amy 
Watchom, x2-2629
IMPORTANT DATES
Today: 3-Person Volleyball sea­
son begins
Tuesday: Racquetball Playoffs 
begin
Tuesday, December 6: IM Board 
Meeting, Conference Room, 3:30 
pm
Wednesday, December 14: IM 
Lunch
SOCCER
Congratulations to the follow­
ing Intramural soccer champi­
ons:
Majors: Real Mellon
Intermediate: Delt Scrubs
Minors: PKT Brazil
Women: PKT Manchester 
The intramural department 
would like to thank all of the 
officials and equipment manag­
ers for their time and efort. The 
86 total teams is the highest num­
ber of teams to ever participate in 
intramural soccer at Carnegie 
Mellon.
6-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Champions were crowned on 
Thursday evening. The IM De­
partment congratulates the fol­
lowing champions:
Majors: Rude Dogs
Intermediate: PKT Long Blue 
Minors: TX Red Sand 
Women: Beta Aces 
The Intramural Department 
administration thanks Chris 
Rotelli, Todd Schneider and Mike 
Nonemacher for all their help 
during the intramural volleyball 
season.
CHESS
The Matharoonies (6-0) cap­
tured the 1994 Chess Champion­
ship with a perfect 6-0 record.
The IM Department congratu­
lates the Matharoonies on win­
ning the championship.
3-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
All teams are reminded to pick 
up schedules in the IM Office. 
The season will run for two weeks. 
Games are only 45 minutes in 
length so teams are reminded to 
get the games started on time.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS, 
BOWLING, DARTS,
BRIDGE, BACKGAMMON
Captains ofthe following teams 
should turn in all game results to
the IM Office room 101 of the gym 
as soon as games are completed. 
They may also call either x8-22l4 
or x8-2053 to phone in results.
BASKETBALL, FLOOR 
HOCKEY
Still looking for a job? Have an 
interest or background in either 
basketball or floor hockey? Call 
IM Director Mike Mastroianni at 
x8-2214 for information on Intra- , 
mural jobs.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPfmm
the Canegie Mellon Tip Off Tour­
nament All-Tournament Team.
The team will travel to Case 
Western Reserve University on 
Tuesday for its opener to the UAA 
season.
During the weekend, the team 
will play in the Marietta College 
Tournament along with Hanover 
and Denison.
The team has three home games 
the week after Thanksgiving va­
cation, playing Waynesburg Col­
lege on Wednesday, November 
30, UAA rival Emory University 
on Friday, December 2, and Wil­
liam Smith College on Sunday, 
December 4.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Daphne Harris struggles to hold on to a rebound against Bethany as 
teammates Jenny Gretz (background) and Katie O’Leary (#5) look on.
classified
ADOPTIONavailable immediately, 682-7300/Union Real Estate 288-7826.
Loving Caucasian couple seeking to adopt infant. Call 1-800-585-8014.
POR SALE
Dime Software: Football 101, NFL Database and forecast program S9.95. Only available at Classic Video, 418 S. Craig Street.
HP 48SX Scientific Expandable Calculator with Equation Library. Performs calculus, statistics, algebra, finance and more. Equation Library is easy to use and performs unit conversion and programmed with Periodic Table and equations for Statics, Fluids, Electricity and more. Paid SB50, sacrifice for S250 OBO. Call I 795-5799 or 795-7313.
HOUSING
Squirrel Hill. Spacious, furnished, one- bedroom apartment. Next to Bus. Washer & dryer. 5495/mo includes all utilities. 422-3812 Available December.
Shadyside- Large sunny studio. Air- conditioning, dishwasher, ceiling fan, garbage-disposal, new floors, carpeting. Secure building. In great condition! 5425/ mo. Call 362-8381.
Female medical student seeks to share security furnished apartment at Webster Hall, Fifth Ave. Everything included/reasonable.To see, call office at 621-4132.
5620 Fifth at Negley 1 BR, S405, heat included, laundry, garage 530, available immediately, 362-8592/Union Real Estate 288-7808.
800 S. Negley at Walnut efficiency 5330, heat included, laundry available immediately 682-7300/Union Real Estate 288-7808.
4733 Centre Avenue Efficiency, 5375, heat included, elevator, laundry available December 1st. 682-7300/Union Real Estate 288-7808.
5260 Centre Avenue at South Aiken, 1 BR 5490, heat included, elevator, laundry,
"Spring Break 95**America's #1 Spring Break Company! Cancún, Bahamas, Daytona & Panama! 110% Lowest Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends and travel free! Earn highest commissions! (800) 32-TRAVEL
Wanted!!! Individuals and student organizations to promote Spring Break '95.Earn substantial money and free trips. Call Inter-Campus programs 1-800-327-6013
National Park Employment. Over 25,000 openings! Excellent benefits & bonuses. For more information call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N52361
Cruise Ships Now Hiring - Earn up to 52,000+/ month working on Cruise Ships or Land Tour companies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.) Seasonal and Full- Time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206- 634-0468 ext. C52361
Independence Court of Oakland, an assisted living residence, seeks part time waitstaff. Experience and professional manner required. Will train. Interested candidates should apply in person.
Long Distance Sales: Part time with career opportunity. Independent reps wanted for campus and metro area. 5th largest/fastest growing carrier. Call for background info prior to interview. Current Communications (412)- 687-0310.
SERVICES
International Students: DV-1 Greencard program by U.S. immigration. Greencards provide permanent resident status. Citizens of almost all countries are allowed. For info & forms: New Era Legal Services, 20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, CA 91306, Tel: (818)-998-4425; (818) 772-7168, Monday-Sunday 10a.m.- 11p.m.
Flowers for birthdays, anniversaries, formals,
platonic and more. Call Alex's Flowers at 687-Alex. Credit cards accepted.
Do you get cold fingers? If your fingers turn white or blue when they get cold, or if you have been diagnosed with Raynaud's disease, you may be eligible for this University of Pittsburgh Medical Center research study. The study will compare the use of biofeedback training vs. medication to control symptoms of Raynaud's disease. Qualified participants will receive free treatment, a free physical exam, and reimbursement for travel expenses as part of the study. For details call 624-0136.
Architecture/Engineering Students: Enhance your skills by learning AutoCad at the Pittsburgh Technical Institute. Short­term (6-weeks) evening classes start monthly. For information, contact Carmen Sporio at 471-1011
Cash for college available now, nationwide!!! Recorded message gives info. 704-784-4123 ext 331.
TRAVEL
Travel free! Spring Break 95! Guaran­teed lowest prices. Jamaica, Cancún, Bahamas, Florida. Book early & save 555! Organize group travel free! 1 -800-426- 7710
Hitch the skies with AirHitch -Carrib/Mex 5189 R/T. Europe 5169, Coast to Coast 5129. Call for a free program description at 800-327-2009.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........55.00 / wk
21-50 words.......58.00/wk
51 -100 words......510.00 / wk
•Classifieds must be paid In cash or by check before the first-scheduled run date.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before publication.
CBA’s Piranhas make debut
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
With the Penguins on strike 
and the Steelers one good quar­
terback from going too deep into 
the National Football League 
playoffs, local sports fans may be 
pondering where to turn to get 
their fill of pro action this winter. 
Here’s a suggestion: go down to 
the A. J. Palumbo Center and 
check out the Continental Bas­
ketball Association’s Pittsburgh 
piranhas.
Professional basketball returns 
to Pittsburgh tonight as the Pira­
nhas begin their Continental 
Basketball Association (CBA) 
home season against the defend­
ing league champion Quad City 
Thunder. The Piranhas opened 
their season Saturday with a 126- 
114 victory on the road against 
the Hartford Hellcats.
Not since the American Bas­
ketball Association’s Condors left 
in 1972 has Pittsburgh been able 
to claim a team in any pro basket­
ball league as its own. Piranhas 
players and coaches are excited 
about their new home.
“They [the fans] have been real 
supportive,” said James Black- 
well, a guard on last year’s 
LaCrosse (Wisconsin) Catbirds 
team that won the Mideast Divi­
sion title (the team was purchased 
by Pittsburgh entrepreneur Rob­
ert Murphy and moved to Pitts­
burgh in the off-season). Tvebeen
surprised how knowledgeable 
they’ve been of the league and its 
teams.”
The CBA is the National Bas­
ketball Association’s version of a 
farm system; it is called “The 
Official Developmental League of 
the NBA,” and is subsidized in 
part by the league. As of the 
start of this season, there 
were 56 former CBA play­
ers playing in the 
NBA, including 
John Starks and 
Anthony Mason 
of the New 
York Knicks 
and guard 
Mario Elie 
of the world 
champion 
Houston 
Rockets.
A quick 
scan of CBA 
player biog­
raphies re­
veals a vari­
ety of playing 
experience.
Some players 
are fresh out of 
college, while others 
have competed in 
countries like Portugal 
and Japan, spent time in 
NBA training camps or summer 
leagues, and/or laced up the 
sneakers in NBA regular-season 
or playoff action.
Regardless of where they’ve
played before reaching the devel­
opmental league, most players 
have one thingin common: youth. 
In fact, the CBA requires it. At 
least one player on the 10-man 
roster have no previous pro play­
ing experience, and at least three
Copyright 1994 Pittsburgh Piranhas 
must have played less than four 
years.
With so few players (NBA ros­
ters have 12), versatility is also 
at a premium, as players may be 
asked to play several different 
spots to help their team win. Six- 
year CBA vet Jarvis Basnight, 
who starred collegiately atUNLV, 
says the Piranhas will incorpo­
rate this player flexibility into 
their game plan.
“[Head] coach Don 
Zierden is coming in 
with an up-tempo 
style of play, which 
is good for the 
players we 
have on our 
team,” said 
Basnight. 
“We have 
guys who 
can play 
numerous 
positions.” 
Accord­
ing to Zier­
den, the 
team’s phi­
losophy is, if 
you outrun 
the other team, 
you’ll out-score 
them. You’ll also 
tire them out, giving 
you an advantage late 
in games. First, though, 
he has to make sure his play­
ers can withstand the frenetic 
pace his system calls for.
“The players like to run, but 
some aren’t in condition to,” he 
said. “We’ve tried to stress the
in the
commitment to running in train­
ing camp. If you get easy baskets 
early, it helps set up the half­
court game.”
Execution of this style depends 
heavily on the guards, who must 
push the ball up the court and 
ignite the fast break. Point guard 
Blackwell, who last year led 
LaCrosse in assists, is expected 
to be the catalyst of the attack. 
Tracy Moore, who played for the 
Catbirds and the NBA’s Detroit 
Pistons last season, will be 
counted on to provide much of the 
scoring punch from the two- 
guard. Basnight will provide vet­
eran leadership from his forward/ 
center spot, and rookies Abdul 
Fox and Kris Bruton, the Pira­
nhas’ first-round draft pick and 
last year’s ESPN collegiate slam- 
dunk champion, will be asked to 
contribute immediately. Forward 
Tony Massop and guard Jermaine 
Guice started on opening day. 
The rest of the roster consists of 
Danny Jones, Alex Roberts, and 
former Penn State star Tom 
Hovasse, who was recently cut by 
the Atlanta Hawks.
Since players can be called up 
to the NBA at any time, team 
continuity can be a problem for 
CBA clubs. Possible shakeups 
notwithstanding, the Piranhas 
are a confident bunch heading 
into their first season in the Steel 
City.
“We’re trying to make the team 
atmosphere a family thing,” said
’Burgh
Basnight. “If players are called 
up, that’s wonderful, but we have 
to do the best we can. We’re hop­
ing to have one of our better years 
for the people in Pittsburgh.”
The Piranhas hope to emulate 
the first-year box office success of 
the Hartford Hellcats, who last 
year finished their initial season 
in the Connecticut capital second 
in the CBA in attendance. For all 
of the positive response the team 
has gotten, Basnight realizes the 
team must come out of the gate 
quickly to spark sustained city- 
wide interest.
“We hope to get off to a good 
start and put people in the 
stands,” he said. “If you come out 
here and win ballgames, people 
are going to be interested in what 
you’re doing.”
Differences between NBA 
and CBA
— No foul-out rule: after a 
player’s sixth foul, the opposing 
team gets two free throws plus 
possession of the ball.
— 10-man roster: at least one 
player must be a true rookie, and 
at least three must have played 
four years or less.
— Seven-point system: league 
standings are determined by num­
ber of total points. The winner of 
the game receives three points; 
the winner of each quarter re­
ceives one point.
WHERE DID YOU SEE THIS AD?The Best Way All Around!
Tartans finish as runners-up in opening tournament
HOW TO GET AHEAD IN COLLEGE:
Please mail request for more information to Marketing Department, PAT, 2235 Beaver Ave., Pgh.( PA 15233
ADDRESS
Wherever you need to ao in Allegheny County, our buses, ® and Monongahela Incline 
can get you there! For tne routes and times best for you, pick up a free System Map and 
schedules at our Downtown Service Center at 534 Smithfield Street, or call: 442-2000.
CITY
REQUEST:.
TIP OFF, from page 9
Tartan’s season record to 1-1.
In Saturday’s first round game 
against Bethany, the Tartans 
started off with strong perimeter 
shooting, knocking down three 3- 
pointers in the opening minutes. 
Behind this shooting, the Tar­
tans jumped out to an early lead 
and were ahead 26—10 at one
point in the first half.
“We started off with a good per­
formance from outside and 
Bethany never adjusted,” said 
Seidl.
Bethany went on a run and 
closed the score to 27—19, but 
sophomore Tracy Coalter hit a 
jumper to end the first half and 
make the score 29-19.
The second half 
started off with 
scoring going back 
and forth. Car­
negie Mellon had 
an answer for ev­
ery Bethany score. 
Kupfer and Gretz 
kept the Tartans 
ahead by scoring 
when it was 
needed.
Bethany went 
on another run in 
the middle of the 
second half to get 
within five points, 
but they could 
never get closer. 
The Tartans ran 
out the clock for a 
56-50 victory.
“We got a little 
lax after we got 
that big lead,” said 
Seidl. “Then Beth­
any started to 
pressure us and 
we responded ef­
fectively.”
The Tartans 
played extraordi­
nary defense in
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Senior Jenny Gretz is one of the Tartans’ co­
captains. She averaged 14.5 points this weekend.
holding Bethany to a miserable 
shooting performance, 17-91 
from the field.
Seidl said, “This team plays 
very well with the talent that 
they have.”
She also complimented fresh­
man Katie O’Leary and McCad- 
ney for playing well. “They will 
be very important to our success,” 
she said.
In the consolation game, 
Bethany defeated Southwestern, 
70-57.
The leading scorers for 
Carnegie Mellon were Gretz with 
15 points and Kupfer with 12 
points. They were also voted to
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Rebecca McCadney and Tracy 
Coalter warm up before one game 
of the Tip Off Tournament.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

? All Wbrk. No Play.
? All Play. No Work. 
m All Work. All Play.
Get the best of both worlds at Microsoft.
On Campus Interviews
Full-time & Summer Technical Interviews _
January 23-24, 1995 ÈÊm^mMËUÊJÊHkéFm J1W ®
See Career Center for details.
Sign-ups due by 12/7/94.
Microsoft is an Equal Opportunity Employer and supports workforce diversity.
Microsoft
01994 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. Microsoft® is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89. Issue 11The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania21 November 1994
T TTTTiT/SrfflHDDniBOpnDLlVllilJ
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
Eclectic acts make local music fun, cool
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
You’ve got your Seattle, your 
Miami, your San Francisco, your 
... Pittsburgh!? Yup, Pittsburgh.
Many people don’t realize it, but 
we’ve got one heck of a music 
scene here, chock full of a more 
eclectic mix of bands than most 
will ever find on MTV anyday.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t really 
reach the campus very much; I 
mean, the Clarks, one of 
Pittsburgh’s most acclaimed 
groups, played in the tent to a 
ten-person crowd earlier this 
year! So, for everyone’s informa­
tion and enjoyment, here’s a run­
down on the local music scene:
The Clarks: A quartet of 
highly-skilled songcrafters a la 
bar rock, these guys rock better 
than Mellencamp or Springsteen 
combined. Their acoustic sets are 
fantastic, and their stage pres­
ence is inviting and compelling to 
the huge droves of people that like hell. Featuring Billy Corgan- 
they usually play to. Sponsored esque tunes and a straight-ahead 
by a really famous Pittsburgh rock'n’roll approach, this band is 
beer company, these guys are a a shining star that seems likely
them a great suc­
cess here in the land 
of the three rivers. 
Their newest al­
bum, Sodom and 
Begorrah, is avail­
able in record stores
The Little Wret­
ches: These guys 
have been through 
a genre blender, 
from doing 4/4 rock 
in their early days, 
to progressive pop 
style tunes in more 
recent times. Their 
most recent release 
is a self-titled disc 
which has no cover, 
and the one before 
that is entitled Be­
yond the Stormy 
jiiii oujruci/ idudii rnuiu cunui Blast. I WOUld list
Most people think of local music as amateurish, but musicians in Pittsburgh are everything they 
surprisingly professional, releasing a wide variety of CDs and cassettes. have out, but the list
is so long, I doubt I
gig constantly. Fusions abound, 
and their drummer just kicks 
butt. No album yet, but keep 
watching.
Pittsburgh must. Their latest re­
lease is entitled Love, Suspicion, 
and Bad Debt, and is available 
pretty much everywhere.
A.T.S.: This trio of musicians 
mix jazz, rock-abilly, pop, 
funk, country, and blues to 
make a mesh of excite­
ment that comes off 
amazingly well, both 
acoustically and elec­
trically. This band’s old 
tapes are really hard 
to find, but look 
around for their dou­
ble CD Sepco (priced 
at about $14), and 
their first national 
release with Shimmy 
Disc, Blood Drive.
Great rockin’ stuff.
to grab national attention. I’ve 
heard some great demos, so their 
release should be forthcoming.
could. Let’s just say, though, that 
I lent someone my copy of Why 
Were Their Poets Silent? and 
never' got it back. Really good 
stuff.
The two most major samplers, WDVE's annual Rock ‘N’ Roll 
and Blue Duck’s Duck Tracks series, give listeners a good 
peek into the wide spectrum of the Pittsburgh music scene, 
and cost $9.99 and $10.99, respectively.
The Frampton Brothers: A
dry sense of humor is featured 
prominently in every track that 
these guys produce for your 
listening pleasure. With 
crass vocals and jangly 
guitar lines, this 
band.takes the cor­
ner market on 
sardonic rock 
here in the city o’ 
steel. They’ve got 
three releases 
out, the latest of 
which is called 
The Fram-pton 
Bros. Hate You. 
Check ’em out.
Dose: Newcomers on the mu- Thickhead Grin: Yup, they re
sic scene, this band’s core con- girls. This alternative band fea- 
sists of two songwriters who met tures three women and two men 
at an open stage and decided to who have a track out on a s am- 
put their heads together and rock pier called “Duck Tracks,” and
Ploughman’s 
Lunch: A mix of 
celtic folk and 
rock and roll, Ploughman’s Lunch 
boasts a sense of humor unique to 
Pittsburgh music. The vocalist 
sounds a little like Tom Waits, 
and their singular style has made
The Distractions: Profes­
sional releases and a terrific 
groove make these guys a suc­
cess. With its professional pro­
duction, this band’s latest album, 
Trip, has been mesmerizing fans 
all across the city. They’re best 
known as the band that did a tour 
of local record stores to promote 
the album, attracting numbers of 
new fans from ordinary browsing 
packs to sidewalk festival crowds. 
They have two albums out, the 
aforementioned Trip, and their 
debut, Blue.
Jef & Gar: This pair of 
songwriters, Jef Garfinkle and 
Gar Misra, have appeared in 
many incarnations. Their now- 
defunct rock band, Burning 
Bridges, made way for their 
acoustic act, which is just the two 
of them, which sometimes flows 
into their new aggresive-style 
group, Dr. Teeth. They have a
six-song release entitled Loud- Meant To Be (OUCH!,) gigged a 
mouth and Jabber jaw, which is little while longer, and faded into 
one of the finest half-hours of the black void that many such 
music you’ll ever hear. bands find themselves stuck in.
Oh, well, such is life. You can still
Rusted Root: O.K. If you find their CDs in select record 
haven’t heard of 
these guys by now, 
you just haven’t 
been in Pittsburgh 
too long. Rusted 
Root is a David 
Byme-style septet 
that got signed to 
Mercury Records, 
has been with 
H.O.R.D.E and is 
currently on tour 
with the Dave 
Matthews Band.
Their current al­
bum, When I Woke, 
can be found any­
where Mercury 
records are sold, 
and a few copies of 
their debut, Cruel 
Sun, can be still be 
found in local 
record stores, if 
you’re lucky.
stores, though.
Gemini 28: This duo consists 
of two lovely twin sisters whose Out of the Blue: The rumors 
interweaving of flute, guitar, and that this band has broken up fly
Rusted Root signed with Mercury Records 
last year, and is now touring with the Dave 
Matthews Band.
beautiful harmonies create a folk- 
blues sound that make Homer’s 
Sirens seem like pitiful wailing 
wenches. They’ll pull you in, but 
you’ll never crash as long as 
they’re playing. If you can catch 
them playing, you might be able 
to snag a copy of their demo, 
Across the Rubicon, but you’ll 
have to wait *til semester break 
rolls around, because, except for 
a few scant weekends, they’ll be 
too busy studying at Cornell. Sigh. 
But they’re worth sticking around 
in Pittsburgh for.
Affordable Floors: Well, this 
band doesn’t seem to be around 
anymore, but they’re definitely 
worth mentioning. The Afford­
able Floors were a much-loved 
Pittsburgh band who gigged the 
hell out of themselves, got signed, 
got dropped, came home, released 
an album called All the Things I
in and out like bats, so I’m going 
to assume that they’re still to­
gether. Basically, these guys 
crawled out of a crack in the side­
walk (by way of Penn State) and 
won the Bud Light Rock Chal­
lenge, earning them a bunch of 
cash to put out their first really 
well produced album.
There’s about nine members to 
this band, makingfor a sonic over­
load that any songwriter would 
be proud to have backing him. 
Led by Michael Bolton lookalike 
Frank Spadafora (but don’t worry, 
he’s cool,) these guys will improve 
any sourpuss’ disposition in sec­
onds. I was in a bad mood when I 
first saw them and was smiling 
like a boy whose prozac had gone 
up about a hundred milligrams 
after listening to Spadafora strum 
for about 15 seconds.
Please See LOCAL, page Lll
Upstage makes excellent getaway for dancing fun
boards are those electronic plastic 
ones. The pool tables get crowded 
pretty fast.
Curiously enough, some of those 
warnings hint at the Upstage’s, 
shall we say, je ne sais quois. I 
mean, there aren’t ever any pesky 
kids there, there is usually a pretty 
good drink special, there are plenty 
of people to meet (or scam on, not 
that anybody would ever go to a 
bar/club for that kind of thing), 
there are bathrooms, there are 
some games in case you need to 
hide from an ex, and there are pool 
tables. I can’t really say I like the 
dart boards.
So what does the place look like?
Well, it’s mostly black. There’s a fairly 
decent lighting setup, and some pretty 
serious speakers (although it seems like
vorite tunes. There are two bars 
(although the back bar isn’t open 
on Friday nights, which are, by 
the way, less crowded and more, 
say, “intimate” than other nights), 
so you can usually get a drink 
fairly quickly.
During the summer, the place 
can achieve impressive tempera­
tures and levels of humidity. Dur­
ing the winter the ambient tem­
perature is usually fine.
What about the music? There 
are basically two DJs who spin 
there — DJ Harry the Wire on 
Friday nights, and DJ Spike on 
Saturday, Monday , and Thurs­
day nights.
The music ranges from industrial to 
goth to hard core to rave to techno to 
house, with the occasional “I’m Too Sexy”
There are many clubs here in the land of Steel and Beer, 
one of them the discotequey Upstage.
they’ve been toned things down over the 
last year — either that, or I’m just 
mostly deaf already) to belt out yer fa­
By JON SLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
I’m going to start this article 
with some warnings: The bouncers 
are really good at spotting fake 
IDs. The drink special ends at 11. Thurs­
day, Saturday, and Monday nights can 
get really really crowded (whether that’s 
bad or not is kind of a personal thing, I 
guess). The bathrooms are pretty, uh, 
minimal, and there is often a frustrat- 
mgly long line for them (curiously 
enough, it seems that the women’s bath­
room line is often shorter than the men’s).
| Although there are some pinball and 
video games there, they aren’t the lat­
est, greatest ones (currently, I think the 
Pinball games are Elvira and something 
else that I can’t recall. I think Road 
blasters is back, though!). The dart
thrown in for respite. Requests are a 
tenuous thing, but you can at least al­
ways ask.
There is a cigarette machine. Some­
times, you can check your coat. In the 
back left comer is some funky vending 
machine that offers a curious selection 
of mixed drinks.
In cans.
Never get a “Three Wise Men.” Well, 
you can get one, just don’t drink it. 
Always tip your wait-staff. Pretty much, 
the winner of a game of pool plays the 
next person in line for free (i.e.: newcom­
ers pay).
Oh, yeah, the cover is generally two 
bucks. You can get away with a night of 
unbridled fun for ten bucks.
I guess that’s about all I have to say 
about the place. Further investigation is 
in your hands!

---------------------------------------------------

\Stud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPf
Professors offer invites for Turkey Day
respite ft°* less»gW*‘ h ho»«-“0^„se coo»
«.onttisof sleep & Uot, «e8‘’by TOon
mere thoug ^ 0T «i*^"oW ¿bäd, *
TT;rtVi\an^eT c ~ five-ye .^n-ntS <
sssas?*':8ta'
{0rtont^ 01 ^^faTetu**» se^*e holiday- t fttthe^
^Sssg&^ss»0,
year, sW Ltiotis'»er® ”!bey were a s®1eincoi®ectm®,ete with“Outto^e{elttto^havetroutìe^ner, comP^ Qf 
coior,beca ¿thatthej jjrçviat&sS1 acco®?*“’,6 e typ'caïly
cataPUB ’ uii togt LtoS*atnoJ® ffair.anà anotber^àaU*eO*erBt^ eàatour ^
“S“ -SPSS,-i, * *»“ *M”
Plans for '95 Beaux Arts Ball swing into motion
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Stafjiuriter
“Beaux-arts Ball is not a rock- 
and-roll ball. It is an arts ball,” 
said Nicholas Hahn, a senior the­
ater major who is the managing 
producer of this year’s Beaux Arts 
Ball. Hahn, who was a performer 
in the last Ball which took place 
two years ago, said, “I hope this 
year’s Beaux-arts Ball, as opposed 
to the last, will be more diverse. I 
am trying to bring other forms of 
entertainment to the Ball, such 
as art and video presentations.” 
He added, “Many people have the 
misconception that the ball is 
supposed to focus on music, par­
ticularly rock music, but the true 
purpose of the ball is to celebrate 
all of the arts.”
The Beaux Arts Ball was 
started in 1915 by the Depart­
ment of Architecture. The Ball 
has gone through some changes 
since its beginning. It still is a 
masquerade affair; however, at­
tendees do not need a date and 
the ball is now open to all stu­
dents. Prior to the last Beaux
but the funds from the adminis­
tration have to be made back for 
the next committee to have some­
thing to start with. He added, 
“We cut back quite a bit this year.
we did at the last Ball.” Money 
brought in from ticket sales will 
pay for bands, decorations, food, 
security, and technical equip­
ment.
Arts Ball, only students in the 
College of Fine Arts were permit­
ted to attend. “The Ball can be 
enjoyed and appreciated by all 
students, not just those in CFA,” 
said Alicia Allen, a senior 
in the Bachelor of Humani­
ties and the Arts program 
who is a production man­
ager of the Ball. This year, 
tickets will be sold to all 
students.
The Ball is funded 
through ticket sales which 
will begin in two weeks at 
the Information Desk in 
the Student Center and at 
various tables around cam­
pus.
The tickets will be $25 
until the week before the 
ball when they will be 
raised to $30. “The Beaux
Arts Ball Committee was _ . „Tartan Filein debt at the start of this Elaborate costumes added to the atmosphere of the last Beaux Arts Ball which
new school year as a result held in the spring of 1993.
of last [committee’s] over
Instead of four stages, there will 
be three, and there will be ten 
bands instead of seventeen. We 
also have a lot less publicity then
spending,” said Hahn. He ex­
plained that Warner Hall pro­
vided money for the committee to 
begin activities like publicizing,
Though the Beaux Arts Ball 
Committee had to make cuts in a 
number of areas, including pub­
licity, Hahn feels certain that this
will not affect ticket sales. “Un­
fortunately,” he said, “it’s the 
bands that sell tickets.”
Despite the fact that a definite 
line-up of bands has not been 
established, Hahn is con­
sidering a number of pro­
fessional bands such as Dee 
Lite, God Street Wine, Hot 
Tuna, Luscious Jackson, 
Meat Puppets, Morphine, 
Max Creek, Milo C, Rusted 
Root, Mslum, Squonk Op­
era, Dead Milkmen, and 
Aquarium Rescue Union. 
The committee is also look- 
ing forward to having many 
local bands perform. AB 
Concerts is funding the 
headlining performer, but 
is not providing money for 
any other aspects of the 
event.
The theme of this year’s 
Beaux Arts Ball is Inner- 
apple: Epicurean Ecstasy 
Exposed. The theme fo­
cuses on a garden motif; how­
ever, Jessica Chalifoux, a junior 
history major who is a Beaux- 
Arts Ball production manager,
said, “We want people to figure 
out the inner meaning of the 
theme for themselves.” She 
added, “The atmosphere of the 
party will definitely make the 
night. That’s the one thing that 
sticks out in my mind about the 
last Beaux Arts Ball, the atmo­
sphere.”
Lisa Sheridan, a junior drama 
major agrees with Chalifoux. “It 
definitely was not what I ex­
pected. Everything about the 
night was amazing, the decora­
tions, the people, the music, but 
one of the best parts was watch­
ing my friends perform. It was 
like this incredible spirit engulfed 
all of us,” said Sheridan.
Allen added, “The last Ball was 
a lot of fun, a month of craziness 
in six hours, but this year will be 
better, much better.” The Beaux 
Arts Ball will take place on Feb­
ruary 11 from 9 pm until 3 am in 
the College of Fine Arts building. 
If you. have any questions or are 
interested in helping with the 
organization of the Ball call the 
Beaux Arts Ball hotline at 268- 
8922.
Old Man Donner spices up dinner table with chicken dishes
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Taking time out of my busy 
busy schedule to send recipes to 
you (yes, just you, my dear). I 
once again failed to retrieve my 
mom’s shepherd’s pie recipe from 
home, so we’ll go an unprec­
edented three out of four weeks 
without potatoes.
Perhaps even more signifi­
cantly, these will be the fourth 
and fifth chicken recipes without 
any significant potato recipes. 
Yes, it’s clear folks: Mr. Perdue 
has been on time with the checks, 
while Idaho has slid clear off the 
counter, foolishly ignoring my 
proposal for the Boise Potato 
Museum.
Lemon Baked Chicken
chicken breasts
lemons
spices
This is a pretty obvious dish, 
but there’s some important deci­
sions to be made when it gets 
down to the particulars. Obvi­
ously you’re cleaning the chicken 
breasts and putting them in a 
baking dish and squeezing lemon 
all over (Note: one of those tear- 
drop-shaped lemon reamers is a 
great tool to get the most out of 
your personal lemon).
The spicing, however, can be 
attacked in several ways: 1) 
lemon, pepper and forget it; 2) 
Fresh pepper, grate your own 
lemon rind; or, 3) fresh pepper, 
basil, oregano, thyme, a wee bit o’ 
rosemary — perhaps some 
freshly-grated rind here as well. 
If you’re taking #3, it’s probably 
best to flip the breasts over and 
swish the juice around a bit, so 
that all those spices don’t cake 
atop the chicken; for number one 
and number two, perhaps just 
save a lemon 'til the end and 
squeeze it over the breasts to dif­
fuse the pepper a bit. Anyway, 
once you’ve come to a solution
you like, cover the dish and bake you getting all this — crumbling 
at 350 for maybe 15 minutes a my own bread. That’s really all 
pound—check midway and make there is to it: toast it, crumble it, 
sure all is moist. addItalian-typespices(youknow
Perhaps this recipe strikes you who you are). If that’s too much
as unimpressive: ______________________________________________
you’re thinking “I 
could’ve figured 
that out! Why’s 
this jerk getacol- 
umn!?” Well, first 
off, because I was 
asked, and second 
off, because I’m not trying to cre­
ate an iiberrace of Jeff Smiths 
and Julia Childses; I’m trying to 
demonstrate how simple and 
cheap real, good cooking can be.
That said, the next one entails a 
bit more effort or expense (de­
pending which you can better af­
ford).
LHF demsoc di DnFiohdeudn 
ti1 hsFAln uoD \tnuA 
enulC ciiD \iifsoc \uo gnG
Chicken Parmesan (or 
Not)
chicken breasts 
Italian breadcrumbs or 
Italian bread and spices 
egg or milk
various cheese and tomato 
products
I’ve often made my 
breadcrumbs simply by —
trouble, invest in a canister from 
the store (I just tend to find it a 
bit ridiculous to pay someone else 
to crumble bread for me). Any­
way, dip the chicken pieces in 
milk or beaten egg and then 
dredge through the crumbs.
Get a good bit of olive oil quite 
hot in a frying pan and throw the 
chicken in until it’s thoroughly 
cooked.
A bit of advice: if the chicken is 
thick, lower the heat a little so it 
can cook through without burn­
ing the bread; it’s easier just to 
slice the chicken thinly. Once the 
chicken is cooked, you’ve a vari­
ety of options: true chicken 
own Parmesan, chicken with cheese 
- are and tomato, even lemon baked
chicken. For the first, top the 
breasts with tomato sauce, grate 
mozzarella and parmesan over 
top, and bake until the cheese 
melts.
For the second, use whatever 
cheeses you want (muenster, 
swiss, cheddar, jack, etc.), bake 
until melted, add tomato slices 
(some might prefer to bake the 
tomato). The last should be pretty 
obvious.
Of course there are many, many 
more ways to top your chicken; 
see what’s in the fridge (mus­
tard?) and go to town.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
aeii 10m7fHPP
Jason Roth is currently going 
through potato withdrawl. His 
head is kind of shriveled up and 
forming grayish-brown spots. His 
head was put in the ground in an 
attempt to revive him, but all he 
could say afterwards was “down 
with the establishment, down with 
the king, down with Idaho!"
Immigration
Services
Cali far a/ree subscriptìon lo olir 
lmini(• ratioii Newsletter.
Ventresca & VentrescaAlloim-} s ;it l;a\v-
530 W in. l’eiin l'lace • Suite 357 
l'illshurgli • Pennsylvania • 1521‘J
(412) 261 • 5366
NO GIMMICKS
EXTRA INCOME NOW!
ENVELOPE STUFFING: 
$600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to...
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave. 
Brooklyn, New York 11230

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPf\G
All-nighters defeat purpose, lower productivity
j3y ALLJE KING
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
It seems that the only difference at CMU be­
tween three o’clock in the afternoon and three 
o’clock in the morning is that at three in the 
morning, the sun is no longer out. Everything else 
appears as a daily scene; there are still numerous 
lights burning in dorm rooms, and the clusters are 
still basically as crowded as they are during the 
day- A regular stream of people files in and out of 
entropy with chips, cigarettes, and caffeinated 
soda in brown paper bags, ready to greet the dawn 
in a few hours, over discombobulated piles of home­
work and notes.
However unnatural it seems for so many stu­
dents to be staying awake until ungodly hours of 
the night, it seems to be happening all the time. 
“Sleep is no longer an option in my life anymore,” 
said Brigid Ryan, a freshman music theater major.
“With rehearsals-for class, there are nights that 
we have to wait really late for a room to be free, and 
then spend a few hours rehearsing. Then we get up 
for classes at 8:20 in the morning.”
Jasmine Jaisinghani, a freshmen directing ma­
jor, has found herself getting about eight to ten 
hours of sleep a week, because she also has to wait 
for rehearsal rooms, on top of other time consum­
ing projects.
“Just look at me. Look at me. I am so tired ....” 
Jaisinghani said that she has gotten very sick 
three times so far this semester from not getting 
enough sleep, and she doesn’t really know how to 
handle it.
Waiting for rooms in which to rehearse at 3 or 4 
am is mostly unique to CFA students, but there are 
many other students that are sitting in the clusters 
at about the same time, studying in Hunt Library 
until it closes or camping out in groups in dormi­
tory lounges, keeping each other awake to finish 
problem sets or English papers.
Alison Lawrence, a freshman H&SS undeclared 
major, has stayed up all night about five or six
times so far this semster, each time for different 
classes. “There’s absolutely no reason why stu­
dents that are 18,19, and 20 years old should be 
staying up all night doing work. It’s ridiculous!” 
It isn’t only freshmen that are having trouble 
getting sleep and getting their work done. Karl 
Lindroth, a junior mechanical engineering major, 
has pulled two all-nighters so far this semester,
But he, like others, still tends to stay up too late 
studying because he feels overwhelmed by the 
amount he has to do, and doesn’t realize that a lack 
of sleep won’t be anything but detrimental to his 
studies.
Anita Barkin, director of Health Services, ex­
plained why all-nighters really are a cause of poor 
concentration and health and will not help a stu-
Vivarin and Mountain Dew are two favorite products 
of their computer monitors.
after never having had to do it in the past two 
years. He also stays up until 4 or 5 am on many 
nights to study. “A lot of us are finding that in 
junior year, the work really bears down on you,” he 
said. Despite the effort, the all-nighters, according 
to Lindroth, have done more harm than good in 
helping him study for his tests.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photographer 
for students like Dave Schimmei, up all night in front
dent succeed in his or her studies. “Lack of ad­
equate sleep or sleep deprivation is directly related 
to decreased alertness and impairment of cogni­
tive and psychomotor performance. We see many 
students who pull all-nighters and come in with 
complaints of nausea, diarrhea, headache, irrita­
bility, depressed mood. They are often surprised
when we tell them their complaints are due to sleep 
deprivation.” Additionally, there can be more im­
mediate physical harm that students can cause 
themselves if they are over-tired and rushing to 
finish work. “There is an increased risk of acci­
dents resulting in injury when one is sleep de­
prived due to a decrease in psychomotor function,” 
Barkin explained. “Students who have studios 
where they are working with motorized equip­
ment, exacto knives, and stage equipment are at 
high risk.”
Why do students seem to have so much work? Is 
it that the professors are overestimating the stu­
dents’ abilities, or that the students are not man­
aging their time effectively? Michael Murphy, the 
Dean of Students, sees the lack of sleep on campus 
as a problem, but he also thinks that students need 
to stop expecting too much from themselves, and 
need to come to a clearer understanding of what 
the faculty expect from them as well. “I believe the 
expectations of faculty are quite fair,” Murphy 
said. “The principal reason why students come to 
Carnegie Mellon is the outstanding intellectual 
and artistic community here, and hard work is the 
investment that pays the greatest dividend ulti­
mately.”
Although hard work is of an essence here, Murphy 
points out that students, in order to remain happy 
and functionable, must understand that there are 
going to be things that won’t get finished, for which 
there simply isn’t enough time to do. “Sometimes, 
I am sure that students simply get excited about 
the work they are cloing and sleep takes a back 
seat.”
But, he added, the faculty is “incredibly under­
standing of special circumstances. I would urge 
students who are having difficutly, or spending 
what they feel is an inordinate amount of time on 
a single class, to discuss with the faculty member 
what actions the student or the faculty member 
might take to help the student manage the load. 
After all, each and every faculty member on this 
campus has been there before.”
WWW entertains
Focus on the Internet
by Kenton Shaver
An easily accessed on-ramp 
to the information highway is 
your Web browser, Mosaic, 
which comes in X-Windows, 
MS-Windows, and Macintosh 
versions.
The “Web” that it accesses is 
a hypertext information utility 
that enables you to access sound 
clips, images (GIFS, JPeGs, 
bitmaps, etc), movie clips 
(MPEGs, etc), and text files. Of 
course, when I say “Web,” take 
it as an invitation to a game of 
Russian roulette.
“Web” means either a Web- 
browsing program, the collec­
tion of Internet sites that com­
prise the World Wide Web 
(WWW), or the convention of 
transferring data that enable 
WWW sites and WWW 
brousing programs to commu­
nicate.
To get to a Web browser, sit 
at an Andrew-connected UNIX 
workstation and type “mosaic” 
at your command prompt. On 
cluster Macs, the Web browser 
for Mosaic is usually grouped 
near the icons which you would 
click to start MacMail.
Networked MS-Windows 
compatible computers can use 
their own version of Mosaic, 
but as popular as this particu­
lar Web browser is, it isn’t the 
only one, or by some evalua­
tions, the best.
W3, for example, is a GNU- 
Emacs “elisp” Web browser 
available on Andrew that, like 
all “elisp” programs, has a freely 
available source code. It is very 
useful if you want to know how 
a Web browser works or if you 
have your own modifications or 
extensions in mind to W3. One 
version is in the directory /afs/ 
cs.cmu.edu/misc/gnu-emacs/ 
common/alpha/site-lisp/pack- 
ages/w3. The only common 
characteristic of Web sites is 
that they are on the Internet. 
CMU (www.cmu.edu), and 
111 any other schools have their 
own Web sites, called “home 
pages,” and frequently, many 
more than one. Each page typi­
cally contains “links” to other 
WWW pages, be they different 
parts of the same document or 
different home pages from other 
parts of the Web, but of course 
not all pages are thus 
interlinked. On Mosaic, these 
links are activated simply by 
selecting them with the mouse.
Some sites like www.ag.com/ 
condom/country/ are commer­
cial in nature, although they 
are browsable like almost any 
Web site at no charge. Of course, 
not all Web pages are in North 
America as the Internet has 
global reach. Users can browse 
www.-mantis.co.uk/pgp/pgp.- 
html (a site in the United King­
dom) to access information 
about Pretty Good Privacy, an 
important public key encry­
ption system that you can use 
to protect the privacy of your 
electronic mail, for example.
Most of them are provided as 
a service to Internet users and 
it is best if the user does not 
contact a site during its time 
zone’s business hours.
Other interesting Web sites 
contain the I-Ching (the book 
of changes) (cad.ucla.edu/re- 
pository/useful/iching.html). 
My primary hexigram today is 
#7 Shih — The Army.
Web-visible on www.census.- 
gov/ Pop music lovers can ac­
cess www.metaverse.com (for­
merly www.mtv.com) My own 
department maintains a Web 
site called english-server.- 
hss.cmu.edu/. Websters can 
even stop in at the white house 
at www.whitehouse.gov.
More sites: for connoisseurs 
of trivia relating to the maga­
zine, www.cis.ohio-state.edu/ 
hypertext/faq/usenet/playboy- 
faq/faq.html; for enviromen- 
talists and other concerned par­
ties, www.envirolink.org; for 
those seeking information 
about non-profit organizations, 
www.ai.mit.edu/people/ellens/ 
non.html; my dad’s alma mater, 
www.carleton.edu; for those 
wishing to take or administer a 
comprehensive nerdity test, 
goldrush.stanford.edu/Archive/ 
Humor/Nerdity-_Test_v5; and, 
for those wishing to know how 
this article should have been 
written, www.ugcs.caltech.edu/ 
~klu-ster/markoff.html.
Kenton is a Junior English 
major and a member of the Zen 
Group of Pittsburgh where ton- 
sure is optional.
Internet offers fantasy pseudo lives
By CAREY CLEVENGER
Tartan Staffwriter 
& PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Asst. Diversions Ed.
I stepped off the curb at the 
500 block of the Strip District 
and got into my car. It was nearly 
sunrise, and I had been out rather 
late: it was time to get a little 
sleep.
I turned the car onto Forbes 
and crossed the bridge out of the 
city. Home was in Carnegie, so I 
had a short drive ahead of me. 
Unfortunately, this was the least 
of the things I had to worry about.
I hadjust moved in recently, so 
I hadn’t time to install the secu­
rity systems yet. Opening the 
front door, my pulse quickened: 
the bay window had been bro­
ken, and glass lay everywhere. I 
heard some bizarre scratching 
noises coming from my bedroom 
door upstairs.
I picked up the phone and 
called a friend of mine, a friend 
that I knew could deal with what­
ever was up there. “Hello?” he 
answered.
“Matrix ... it’s me. I need your 
help. This doesn’t look good.” I 
spoke quickly.
“On my way,” he said, and the 
line went dead.
I hung up, took a deep breath, 
and drew my pistol. Just as I 
positioned myself in front of the 
stairs, the bedroom door flew in 
a fury of splinters. It was a 
hellhound.
“A WHAT?” you ask. “A 
hellhound? Hellhounds aren’t 
real!” No, of course not. But this 
was not reality.
I was playing on “The 
Damned”, a MUSH (Multi-User 
Simultaneous Hallucination) set 
in a Pittsburgh that does not 
exist: a Pittsburgh where the 
person sitting next to you could 
be a vampire, or even a werewolf. 
My character — a vampire 
hunter — was about to meet an 
untimely demise.
This is the easiest way to ex­
plain what a MUSH is: first, take 
any roleplaying system (“The 
Damned” uses the popular White 
Wolf gaming system). Put it 
online, and use a text-adventure 
database, (similar to an Infocom 
adventure game). Finally, add in 
the ability to build and create 
things within this virtual game 
world, through use of a coding 
language (my car, a Bentley, for 
example, was an object that I 
had created myself).
MUSH is only of one several
similar software packages, in­
cluding MUDs (Multi-User Dun­
geons, which generally involve a 
lot of computer-controlled mon­
sters) and MUSEs (Multi-User 
Simulated Environment: these 
are most generally used for game 
worlds set in space or on other 
planets, such as the “Battletech” 
genre). I, however, prefer the 
MUSH environment: it’s more 
user-friendly for coding.
There are, of course, a lot of 
differences between role-playing 
online like this, and role-playing 
with your friends in your base­
ment. Primarily is the size in­
volved with a game of this na­
ture: I have seen as many as one 
hundred players in the game at 
once. Another important factor is 
location. Since this is a site on 
Internet, players can come from 
virtually anywhere (my friend 
Matrix is a student at UCSD; I 
have also met players from Michi­
gan, Arizona, and of course Pitts­
burgh). Another advantage for 
experienced role-players is that 
it really allows you to get into 
your character, since you can see 
them within this fictionalized 
version of the world. Finally, the 
aspect of going into another room 
to discuss “confidential” aspects 
of the game is gone: you don’t 
have to worry about people over­
hearing, because only the in­
tended person will hear it (if that 
is what you desire: if you want 
people to overhear it, you can 
allow that too).
The major downside of a MUSH 
is that you may never even know 
with whom you are playing. Since 
it is such an immersed gaming 
world, you may only know the 
players from who they are in the 
game. I only know where Matrix 
goes to school because he told me, 
I have no idea what his real name 
is.
I have several characters in the 
game, and unless I tell someone 
that they are all controlled by 
me, they will have no clue that
they aren’t controlled by two com­
pletely different people. This 
makes the game a little imper­
sonal in some ways: but it makes 
the role-playing aspect a lot 
easier.
If MUSH role-playing sounds 
interesting, there are plenty of 
sites out there, with varied 
themes and settings. A list of 
sites is available through ftp from 
quartz.tutgers.edu under pub/ 
internet/sites/.cap, with the 
filename “mudlist”. The MUSH 
coding manual (which I would 
highly recommend, even if you 
are not interested in MUSH cod­
ing) is available through ftp from 
romulus.ucs.uoknor.edu under 
src/world-mush/doc, and has a 
filename “mushman” or some­
thing like that.
Incidentally, Matrix arrived 10 
minutes later. Oh well, time for 
another character.
As cool as my colleague’s [Carey 
Clevenger] exploits on the 
Internet are, I’d like to point out 
the more literal aspect of social­
ity on the net. Many people on 
this campus don’t seem to realize 
what we’ve been given for free 
with our 25-grand-a-year fees. 
With the same server you use to 
read messages from your friends, 
you can transfer files and such 
from across the globe! For in­
stance, as I am writing this, I am 
downloading a QuickTime Movie 
of Tori Amos playing “Pretty Good 
Year” from the World Wide Web, 
a network accessible through a 
program called NetScape. And 
you can do this from your own 
Andrew account!
In the normal Messages 
MacMail environment that we’ve 
all been trained in through our 
friendly CSW instructors, we 
have an unbelievably cool forum 
for discussion on a wide range of 
topics.
I myself am subscribed to
boards with discussion on every- 
thingfrom Beavis and Butt-head, 
to Douglas Adams books, as well 
as alt.flame, a board where flam­
ing (a type of internet argument 
which usually degenerates into a 
you-are/no-you-are kind of ex­
change) is free, legal, and far away 
from your andrew quota. Boards 
also exist for special interest 
groups like cmuOUT, WRCT, and 
various fraternal organizations.
The art of discussion is en­
hanced somewhat by the Mes­
sages environment, especially in 
a debate. Everyone has a chance 
to read the argument thoroughly, 
as well as the capability to quote 
exactly from other people’s mes­
sages, and all the time they need 
to think of their counterpoint, 
which makes boards like alt.flame 
that much more fun and chal­
lenging. It eats up the hours, but 
boy, is it fun!
If anyone wants to get involved 
with a board, all they need to do 
is read the board for a few days, 
maybe check out the FAQ (Fre­
quently Asked Questions) post, 
and develop a context before post­
ing.
It’s a great way to start off your 
morning, and it’s a fun break from 
the every-day/every-night study 
habits of the average CMU stu­
dent.
You can also buy tons o’ stuff 
through the market boards, from 
CDs to coffee tables. My first week 
here, I took advantage of the CD 
boards to purchase a used REM 
bootleg and had an interesting 
discussion with the person I was 
buying it from in the process.
It’s amazing, the connections 
you can make, the people you can 
meet. If you ever get a chance, I 
strongly recommend that you 
browse through the network. We 
may not have a whole lot of pic­
tures of naked people, but if you 
want to interact with people from 
all over the world, and from all 
walks of life, this is the place to 
be. Enjoy!
ARE YOU A VICTIM O
]. An Accident
2. Improper Medical Care
3. Dangerous Products
F:
South Hills 
Office
IF SO, THEN CALL THE LAW OFFICES OF 
GARY STEINER ESQ. 
Pittsburgh
One Oxford Centre 
255-3777
Monroeville
Office
bg\

---------------------------------------------------

C • O • M • I • C • S
IVE N0ÍER BEEN TO A 
DESERT.' MOM ANO DAD NEVER. TAKE ME .ANYWHERE 
FON OH VACATTONS/ \T 
THEÍD TAKEN ME TO A DESERT 
SOMETIME, I'D AMW THIS 
STUFF/
THIS IS HOPELESS? Hart AM I SUPPOSED TO CREATE A
desert scene in this shoe 
Box WHEN 1 OohY EYEN 
*m\ WHAT A DESERT \OQK5 
------*»>¦¦ L\K£?/ _-
WW1 0OHT \ AND GO TO ALL
yew get our that mom?
b BCOK? / YEAH.SWE'lO* 
I'M A BUS! GUt' 
^ INE GOT OMR
9ef^K TH\N&S TO DO
ii ., L ww w uft!¿>\ BE5\DE5 fW/S, \ Taj KNOW/
R\Gur. c:l X (Ax Sa
WtöTE TIME \ START; ty 
LEANING, WHEN 20 MlNlllR IGNORANCE IS I ARE ^ 
INSTANTANEAS ?/ GOING ^ 
\ HElP VeJrn ? V °RN0Î»
OK. win you y ^
WRITE DOWN I HOLD OU. MS NUMBER I NEEP 
AND HAVE M\ A PEN. 
CALL ME 7 >^r__^
I HATE 
TAKING- 
MESSAGES
nnYweYeaeapilUvvvv
MOM, Do WE 
HAVE A SHOE 
BOX I COULD HAVE9 ITS 
FOR A SCHOOL 
PROJECT <4
WAT SOUNDS I 111 NEED SSME INTERESTING.) GLUE AND PAPER. 
wrN^tlf W STUFF TOO. ¡0"^ S I'M GOING TO(|L •j ! BU\LD Awhpafs k xmxh,f mbu m
7^fe\ II ROADRUNNER.
I THINK SO. 
LETS SEE.
HERE'S ONE. 
WHAT ARE YOO 
GOING TO DO
862$621
I'M SUPPOSED 
TO MAKE A 
DIORAMA. WERE 
STUDYING THE 
DIFFERENT ECO­
SYSTEMS AND
0/9 536¡5 -:
MME A DESERT
IT WAS DOE V 
TODAY, BUT I 
TOLD THE TEACHER 
I WASNT QUITE -V FINISHED. >
MOM, WHERE Co^ WE DONT WE KEEP THE HAVE ANY . 
PAPIER- MÀCHÉ?
OH GREAT/ JUST GREAT/ 
HOW AM I GOING TO MAKE 
A ROADRUNNER WITHOUT 
—. PAPIER-MÂCUÉ ?/
MAYBE YOU SHOULD VE 
THOUGHT OP THAT 
BEFORE 7-00 AT ( 
NIGHT. YOU'LL HAVE i 
TO MAKE ONE SWE£ ^ OHERWAY. _Æ
THIS IS YM SCHOOL PROJET 
CAW IN. YOU Do THE WORk.
IF I GET A BAD 
GRADE, 1TH.BE 
YOUR FAULT FOR 
NOT DOING TUE VtoRK FOR ME'
0JT MH?.'
rtoW. MOM SURE TURNED INTO 
THE CONNIPTION QUEEN WUEN 
SUE FOUND OUT I UADNT 
EVEN STARTED MY DIORAMA 
PROJECT NWEN IT WAS
¦----AÜ5EAD1 WEtom j
\m IS THE DIORAMA 
- COMING AlONG* ,__-
SO THIS IS ONE 
PAY LATE.' WHATS 
THE B\G DEAL?/y
ITS NOT AS IF LIVES HANG 
IN THE BALANCE, RIGHT P 
THE FATE OF THE UNWERSE 
DOESNT DEPEND ON TURNING 
IN A S>HoE EDX DESERT SCB£ 
ON TIME /
THAT DIDNT TAKE TOO 
LONG.
THAT'S KEEPING ] EVEN IF LWES 
TUlNGS IN DID HANG IN 
PERSPECTIVE. I THE BALANCE,
^ -----A IT WOULD
' ’ DEPEND ON
WHOSE THEY 
^tr\ V WERE".
0 —3¡/2 »«« X »«« 2$«
TUE ROADRUNNER. ] COTTON 
WE8ENT YOU GOINS BALLS I 
TO PUT ONE IN? J GLUED 
______""A DOWN?
THE ROADRUNNER JUST RAN OUT OF 
THE SCENE, LE WTO 
THOSE CLOUDS Of —. DUST/  >
I’M ALMOST
orsrendu mTHAT'S 
BECAUSE I'M 
A GENIUS.
What’s a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
DAN6EHPANSERCONSTRutTlOf 
LooK OUT!
E«alita fy (Pm
I» Mow Than a NewspaperKnVEMBER 21.1«%MONDAY EVENING.
I 'u. lex IT tiF Xt\Z
e*GUSV{ TgflCugTfó,..
I iA/o^oei2. t:Oo LDE:icDSkbN a
TMiV UíV-E 
fi(2i/üí5 A M.
isCa y<9u I
W! YOii -mtHBte L
6ûT 'Uf Uo^ 
tô 6*^
T¿> / JH
07ebvdpnwsb,5sS2t9s9 ifl
^ IY\eOsksUpioU’R 
ofiuyAr*fi-
“2$«®?*
’ -,N6ÍER/0 BT
ST^Î1P6
y lRg 75 -rçAcneK-... y /r—
HEßf's A THAKJytS6i(;if}0 
Tb THose PÊFEPbEitS ôF 
oa(^ (2-lûHT4tv,-THE 6 Û-P- /
(uJw/vr AMa -m\ti//06 oro/tic ) ( OK,.t V HtM6? y
(P&uPutftHi, CHlLOíÍE^^ Ç^>» >
^IW6 SccoMi>-6u.e^^ fty
I'LL éll/E J/cxA 
86c tAsf oiAPcg-;
*7^ W/K A/U ) 71
ui-ßM fMTÈXr sAiicpi5 ' 
V SiiL J pHtftg ^(A.e'ï^wJO f«NNN IVJ
\ yaUii Véa
. i Mf^É (V joß. .ure^ißvo 
*rr l'a fofcT
TO Yo'i
Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Wqtterson

---------------------------------------------------

I AM ÎURB H€ 
VilLL CONSIPER/ 
YOVR OFFER / 
AN HOMtf 
A. MARSHAL.//
om
Vt watt
&(Z'>ehlif'6
UFÉIVHeu-
M£6I(4H£-uw
©w1*-gyr*M, 
Û&1>M
90 voüôet a lifetime JUPPW of 6uTTÊftFl*360îç7{Ç SMTTUEK 6A<j? ? ?yoü SUOULP HAvJE 0.J. 
Si^PSOn} OfOTWE SHOtO. 
boo MOW, CU2- HE'S AsiMPSoro. yoS iS.a
15Au)SoMewik36 Aeoor
\T Ok)TV/ WUEOI U)AS CHAhJtJ£U-JOÊFi»)6 UAJT i 
hJ\GHT.l OlDfJT CATCH / kTHt WHOieTHi^auT / 
\X 60T TH6 GOT OF IT/FANS 
WAHT 
TO (CHOW
I THIWVC I HAVE 
ATO^OfO 96RG.IT s. 9lS0£P6fi.^
WHATS
THAT?
Mo OfiES 6C*WA eaicue x r<A TAWiW6 TO-nÆ 6u4 WHO COCATEOtHe ÇiMPSoJf.Wi u)uot€ folium HAiçÇ aoua shwo •.!.--------7=*=^
TH&H SAW OMTrtC i^Te^ST TMffraou wv uy*jpA ÔARfr) U'JiO 1*0 ATÊEPCE QUIil^G COOG6E. iSTmATTQot ? ?  ------ —-J*T~-, • vflT WftS>\J /«oft£ OFC I A SORT, I /Ty^t^Q \Mftw.V A-7
MAN.PCOfA R£A0«fi6 youe. 
CACTOO*OS I THOUGHT 
JjQu'P lOOfc NgBOlCC.
I wc.oTeaoo-wQ£e\ Siroy ûwr Jou wtviec. \ St^rr we A PCPtONôOF MAÛûÊ SlMPfo») MAKO.
ghSy ATe&Jüy »oèto \
MEOeOLOGlCALS^PCoME \ CHAi2ACrEei2€CJffyOB*)aiO^ 1 REMARK IHPuLSlv/E 8ÉHAV10B,,^amc? 6w, you'£ç oGvty
Tr ovTiAiI tOnyrM SO (ZvJrecÛHy X'MSO IfAPimErOT, lOUy X‘N\ SO A61TATEP, AvlP Utty aoo SHOUU? cEEPiJOUR.s^Gl&yAPSHUT.
^IT EXPLAIN? BOTH My ’vSCoro yoryiSM.iS. 
ApW N\y ovSCoro IkIf’bflTlVlTi. y
PO yw 6GT A'J’i Co'iAtTiec FCOM THOCÇ ÔOOTUGG &AÛX SA^CH£ZP\6oQh€J 
F Com tvjuaioa?J\YX
IS ôC-Af'APA N SlMpSoO 6AW??
FBOfA 1tGgtw nRR7,1
iJOO'tfTHldfc IT UIAÇ 
HOMER. SIMPS» WHO , 
(AaaOEftEP ScAÆfiOD'jj/
po you ySiMt WEAMz Ev/££y FOiWie OF THE 
SiMPSo^Ç 300ÛSELP ?
' B>UT tiCU) -THAT I'Ve \0EMTlPl€PTHE SOURCEof wy TCW­2ory6TCOOÔLEÇ <Ta CW€fi. >
XTHlfO^ X HAVE ATT£>3T\oN 9ÊFICIT 
pisowxfc. too.
WHAT S' THAT?IF aoo Eli Eû. NEEO A ^Eu) vact FOC. HOMCÛ 1' iv\ 
^Oi^.n\Aaî! 1 Lcwe CtowwriiyES,MR.6ocn^! PON'r i 
wAve A coloJ x uiv/E r^\ 
MOTPOe/.' (P'oHHlfjh
rMyouaftlGôCffT FA^J r'JE60TE'/EfivTHi^6 ^ yoo'VÇ. E^ O>0£. uJHftrf TUflTT THEC6?Q----rri
8 -IghM047r-v ^ I IKJ H6LU iasf\ ¦x VSooK:-y r V-
REMtMfteA ABOUT FI^G I 
ytAQÇ AtO U)HEiJ IÛAVG 300THElPEAFoe.TH&/( 
SiMPJoU? A ede.iT
pj£VEû\
H£ACO OF)
V IT- 7
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
hOOcoAm. ngructOIM Uvhwlh hfcfbn kdlxyou Been rtnJuAlLMY? THIS LÜ55K...rPSMY z/l PAYOFF! / ___f
ALTERNATE. GREAT. FUNNY 1SAUJA LOT OF YOU"ALTERNATE "DUTY SHOUIP MHENIPIAYEP MENTIONFOOT- \  -------  _ FOOT­BALL. /
1 THINK I GOT 7HE 616 WHEN ITOU? THEM IHAPNT REAP A NEWSPAPER. IN YEARS. THEY ALL JUST SEEMED TDU6HTUR
ASA MATTER OF FACT, I PIP. AS AN ALTERNATE.
HEUOF IS I 
7HIS THE BOOPSTEIN RES/PENCE?]
BEFORE I
ioSn n; iWA5 ALTER- NATES SIX 
ANPSEVEN!
S/XANPSeV- ENÎ BOCPS/B,
YOU CANT BE WO ALTER­
NATES Aim SAMETIME.
f<weMsm lS.gSJS h W,N <EwNd[: ­H­Hy1 MEAN, EVERYONE MAS BEING SO PARTICULAR./
5MNE! KJONPEREUL. YOU PARE LIKE THECHALLENGE 7RJALS NOT ME7 AWAL700I , I. ALREAW.
OH, RIGHT... PIP YOU GET PICKS??
BOOPS/E, EXCUSE ME,EVEN AN ARE >ÜU THEALTERNATE HUSBANP? CAN CHANGE \THE COURSE OF HISTORY! L
OF COURSE, YOU COULP ALSO START A MAJOR RJCTT. EITHER WAY, OUR LIVES (VILE NEV­ER BE THE SAME' .
COULP YOU MOVE] YOUR CAR? WE NEED TO SET UP ONYOURLAUJN. I
YOU'VE BEEN STARJN6ATn pIxoo n !Io? Yd:w? hxunxlx nwN NdSSnxE ?O d: O!f du?xS:d?xP
NOTHING. UJHATPO YOUMEAN?
fi B.D., WHAT'S 
; GOTTEN INTO YOU? i
IPUNNO..irsjuzr...WELL... .
WANT ME TOPINCH 
-, YOU? rf
MAN/HOU/DTHE MEM FIND OUT YOUHJEREAN O.J.APERNATE SOQWCM? .
]HE CALIFORNIAMOBILE ONE,I'M IN! GET MEA FEEP!
BP, I'M5UFETMEilLLOSEIHTER-
BEAT5ME. THEONLY PERSON I TOLPWAS 
1 LOIS r'
AS SOON AS I GET A BOOK CONTRACT, I’LL SEND FOR YOU AND THE CHILD, r
?kno no SOud:E NxEuxtM pSOIc uxdExS qOS dhY :xyo^ d. TEAM O.J.! ff
SALLY! GOT THREE HOT ESQUIRES FOR. YOUR SHOW! THEY ALL GIVE KILLER PRE-TRJAL \ TALKJNGHEAPf (Z-
1 OUT! OUT, YOU PARA-
SHES USUALLY SO PIS- CREST.
5HE5PROMOT­
INGYOUR.FILM5.

---------------------------------------------------

UH0UCAI-EWC@ rar1“
ong4 JieKolas C«sc»rffa.Tr. ^
Xt VJ US So -pMWrtjÎN
H-a.ro! j Jîivn+çv^n 
Knoy»_ "H-ve p««.l was 
i+tll oh "fK< Wn4t>4^
TKdrkKs^ivih«! 
WÎH +K« ^°'
Xh- L*»S.
G>«vj » Aoes
^4h*fvjvj ^ Ti** «»»A
«jol" "rtkt
cw+tst I;t+le p«oJile\
W»*U hnn.l^ç' 
-P UvJtr
He«- e\|e-
<n.rc s+Ari*^ 
«uO Lat,^]
/w k\l «re vöf \iO«+tk‘>ri» 
•£©«+ k« Il ? poo+t^l]
50 C^ildîiiv J X ?»it
fkerç (\ partie orv? 
~Tktc« haust ke. 
paf«At WDk
jfkii S+thK.
"teak, X^ lo-*t. 
'•bo skove -t-^«.+ 
poocU 
4p ktr...
vkct g,hh 5gb,sn
ysK«*1" vij>, vj«w»oik7
guv... °
C ll da.^ 
lon^l &i 
>i+ «, resV I
‘ fj.2l
/
A7,
r'3 ’p&raJ.€ WD I AnJ vsiç w€X€ 
NvWd-HkiKvj S+w-pid -fiso'Hodllj
Q (^. cb]r'' G-Re«1~\C' ^ (T
OO rEN. . M’W’a .G7r ° ° 6 
o o o c
-J-eo k*ti Freol coulcUfl q> C> /n 
kvmke il-J.-.V^trt's +Ke_ q, B
Jjc«r *¦">,.
The Adventures ofJobMan in the 200th DecadeChristopher P. Nelson
But you hired me as a programmer! How 
am I supposed to write programs without a 
; computer'
THE FAR SIDEBy GARY LARSON
This **>«efcfs cowc d-facon c^rrtv^ut" jv(e-f? . iCia <*f taaAcM*.“Leonard painted that and hung it up just this 
afternoon.... He calls it, ‘It’s My Couch! My Couch! 
Don’t They Understand?”’
~x /A Jl fillj
.ÇT'—_ ] **} a
i———1- .. Ä...J»—1
1 *
W ^ *
TT------—*-----r—r-^
1
Jl
' \ 
i|| 
>
f liA -hcAT^S (Als. Carlyle,W*y \ö_gre<irapf^T
“Look, marriage is OK — but I also want 
my own identity.... I mean, how would you like it 
if everyone referred to you as ‘Chocolate Bar 
and Chocolate Bar’?”
Vera looked around the room. Not another chicken 
anywhere. And then it struck her — this was a 
hay bar.

---------------------------------------------------

/DIVERSIONS
Magical Nutcracker comes to Pittsburgh again
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Nutcracker has been a hallmark 
of the Christmas season since its Ameri­
can premiere in 1940. Whether dragged 
to the theater by their third-grade 
teacher as part of an “educational” field 
trip or having caught a glimpse of the 
1977 Barishnikov performance while 
channel-surfing, it has likely been seen, 
at least in part, by every man, woman, 
and child throughout the country. It has 
become as much a part of the Yuletide 
tradition as department store Santas 
and the White House Christmas tree.
The towering, tinsel-trimmed ever­
green, mysterious, magical gifts, and 
charming young tots of the ballet’s open­
ing scene combine to paint an idyllic 
portrait of seasonal joy and harmony. 
“It’s a fantasy that never seems to be 
outdated,” noted one fan.
Its appeal to children is undeniable. 
Not only is it one of the few traditional 
ballets which calls for the performance 
of large roles by children, but its narra­
tive plot is generally simple enough for 
even the youngest of minds to enjoy.
The fantastical qualities ofthe ballet’s 
score, scenery, and choreography com­
bine to present a wondrous netherland 
of dreams come true — a world replete 
with handsome princes, toys bursting to 
life, and sugary sweets.
The ballet not only captivates chil­
dren, but it also casts a spell over adults 
who yearn for the fantasies of childhood. 
The “ordinariness” of Act I, set in the
family’s drawing room, and the magic of 
Act II, in the Kingdom of the Sweets, 
present a delightful contrast between 
our lives and those of which we dream. 
Indisputable is the delight parents re­
ceive from seeing their childrens’ faces 
light up as the dolls begin to dance and 
snow falls mysteriously on the stage.
“[Tchaikovsky’s music] is just great,” 
observed one CMU music student. While 
Tchaikovsky’s score is not as grandiose 
as those for his other ballets, the music 
of The Nutcracker has a power uniquely 
its own. The delicacy of the Chinese “Tea 
Dance” and entrancing melodies in “The 
Waltz of the Flowers” are just a few of 
the orchestral variations which make 
this ballet so special.
The Nutcracker will be performed this 
December at the recently remodeled 
Benedum Center for the Performing 
Arts. Patricia Wilde, artistic director of 
the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre (PBT), 
says, “For all its Victorian charm, famil­
iar melodies, and beautiful dancing, one 
of the most remarkable things about the 
PET’S production of Tchaikovsky’s Nut­
cracker is its enduring popularity.”
Indeed, Wilde poses an interesting 
question. Why is The Nutcracker able to 
be performed in virtually every city 
across the country, by hundreds of com­
panies, year after year, and still attract 
such large audiences? Its performance 
by professional companies is a guaran­
teed money-maker, often accounting for 
a third or even half of the company’s 
annual profits.
The answer is surprisingly simple: the
sanie ballet is not performed year 
after year. One of the most special 
things about this work is that of all 
Tchaikovsky’s ballets, The Nut­
cracker has always been the most 
open to interpretation.
In contrast to the rigid chore­
ography of Swan Lake and The 
Sleeping Beauty, there is no 
universally accepted set of 
rules which dictate the or­
der, timing, or steps of the 
dances in The Nutcracker. 
Choreographers and direc­
tors are given almost free 
reign over the organization 
of scenery and props, as well 
as in the interpretation of 
the characters’ attitudes to­
ward one another on stage.
Many modem produc­
tions are derivative of 
George Balanchine’s 
1954 staging. Wilde, who 
joined the PBT in 1982, 
studied under Balan­
chine as a member of the 
New York City Ballet 
(NYCB) from 1950 to 
1956; as a result, many of 
the PBT’s productions contain a dis­
tinctively Balanchinian flair.
Balanchine was critically acclaimed 
for his performance in The Nutcracker 
as a pupil in the Petrograd ballet school. 
Upon joining the NYCB, he tried to make 
his production as “Hoffinanesque” as 
possible; he incorporated many of the 
details from the fairy tale by E.T.A.
Hoffman on which the ballet was 
based. By setting the opening scene 
in a drawing room reminiscent of 
nineteenth century Germany, 
Balanchine attempted to 
restore the European heri­
tage of the tale’s author, 
as well as to recapture the 
traditionally “German” 
spirit of Christmas. On 
his own, he added such 
mystical figures as the 
Candy Canes and 
Mother Ginger and 
her Polinchinelles.
In the original 
story, Hoffman goes 
into a lengthy expla­
nation ofthe reasons 
behind the Prince’s 
transformation into 
the Nutcracker and 
subsequent change back 
into a Prince.
As it turns out, the Nut­
cracker Prince is the nephew 
of Herr Drosselmeyer, the mysteri­
ous old man who brings the children 
gifts each Christmas. This element has 
been somewhat replicated in produc­
tions such as Rudolf Nureyev’s for the 
Royal Swedish Ballet, in which 
Drosselmeyer turns out to be the Prince. 
While Balanchine makes no such refer­
ence in his production, others have; 
Mikhail Baryshnikov, in his 1977 inter­
pretation for the American Ballet The­
atre, had the Nutcracker Prince and 
Drosselmeyer vie for Clara’s hand.
Some companies have taken the inter­
pretative aspect oftheballetto extremes. 
Take, for example, the politically- 
twinged performances of the Oakland 
Dance Brigade, which feature black 
South African and Native American dolls 
and wheelchair-bound dancers.
Or Madcracker, performed by the Mid- 
America Dance Company, in which the 
Nutcracker is scantily clad in leather 
and Clara is a healthy young divorcee. 
Nureyev, in his 1968 production, modi­
fied the dramatic elements in the ballet 
in an effort to heighten its appeal to 
adults.
He brought a pyschoanalytic interpre- 
tation to the ballet by making 
Drosselmeyer the Nutcracker Prince and 
having Clara fiercely attacked during 
Act I by bats rather than mice.
This season’s production by the PBT 
will surely be reminscient of Balanchine’s 
classic rendition. The ballet will run 
from December 2nd through the 31st, 
and tickets, which range from $11 to 
$55, can be purchased by calling the 
“Nutcracker Hotline,” (412) 456- 2670.
“It’s always such a joy for us to witness 
the happy parade of toddlers, seniors, 
and £in-betweeners’ enjoying his peren­
nial family favorite,” concludes Wilde. 
Come sleet or snow, it is certain that 
audiences will flock to the Benedum this 
December to catch this season’s produc­
tion of their beloved Nutcracker.
Ed. Note: Check out Bethany Sutton’s 
review of the PBTs production of The 
Nutcracker in the December 5 issue.
Prediction: Warwick’s album will bomb
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Dionne Warwick 
Album: Aquarela do Brasil
The title: Aquarela do Brasil. 
The artist: Dionne Warwick. 
That’s enough for me. The last 
song that I can remember lik­
ing from her was “That’s What 
Friends are For.” I believe that 
the only reason I ever liked 
that song is because it was my 
semorclasssonginhigh school.
Now, don’t get me wrong this 
is just my oh-so-humble opin­
ion, but once you decide to com­
mit your life to the Psychic 
Friends Network, you should 
give up your career. I think 
Dionne should have used her 
psychic connections to tell her 
that this CD was going to suck.
Now, I'm not trashing the 
whole album — no, wait, 
nevermind, I am trashing the 
whole album. The songs are 
generally bad. I don’t want to, 
but in order for this to be a 
properreview; here’s the break­
down, track by track (oh, the 
agony of it all):
The first song made me want 
to get up and shut the CD off. 
That shouldtellyou something. 
But, alas, I’m incredibly lazy, 
so I let it play. The first track
has a cool cello solo for about 10 
seconds, then, Dionne begins to 
sing and ruins the rest of the 
song. But, if I were to give an 
evaluationofthe first! 0 seconds, 
I’d have to say, “Cool!” (See, I can 
say nice things,;
The fourth, fifth, and sixth 
tracks all sound like piano lounge 
songs, I expected to see some guy 
in a pink polyester suit walk in 
from the next room.
The seventh track sounds like 
jungle music. No, I don’t mean
^<1
¦ David Vance
Boy is she badi Count the ways: Track one, Track two, Track ...
Anyway, the second track also 
had a cool intro, this time with 
drums, but, once again, that sing­
ing thing screwed it up. This al­
bum would have been better as 
an instrumental release.
The third song had a great en­
trance by the tom-toms and the 
cello, butthat, unfortunately, only 
lasts for about 20 seconds. (Have 
you noticed the theme yet?)
African music or even Australian 
music. This sounds like someone 
went into the heart of the jungle 
and left a tape-recorder there, 
and came back to retrieve it a few 
days later.
Now, about track eight, I’m not 
sure I should say this, but this 
song “sucked ass.” And that’s all 
that can be said about it.
Tracknine sounds sort of like a
Christmas tune being played 
by a band on acid. And believe 
me, that’s not a good thing.
But it was the tenth track 
that really scared me. I don’t 
know who can call themselves 
a professional musician be­
cause they play the whistle, 
but someone does, and they 
aren’t doing a very good job of 
it.
Track 11 sounds like a little 
child being asked to confess to 
something he did wrong. 
Mumble MumbleMumble. The 
only good thing was I really 
couJdn’tunderstandthe words.
The highlight of the whole 
disc comes with the last song. 
Now, don’t get me wrong, it 
sucks too, but if you hadto pick 
the best of the worst, so to 
speak, this would be it.
The music is nothing spec­
tacular, but the lyrics are very 
reminiscentoftheoldsong“If.” 
You remember that song — 
every TV commercial played it 
at some point or another. “If a 
picture paints a thousand 
words....” And so on and so on.
My final recommendation is 
going to have to be: a six-pack 
and four shots of tequila. Ex­
planation: That’s how much 
liquor one would have to con­
sume in order to actually enjoy 
this album.
Allen’s Bullets
makes direct hit
i ByDANGOLDWASSER
| Tartan Staffwriter
\ What:WoodyAHerisBulletsOver 
Broadway
Who: John Cusack, Dianne 
Wiest, Tracey Ullman 
Where: The Manor Theater, 
Squirrel Hill
Who would take the simple 
story of a struggling playwright 
and give him his lucky break — 
by having the mob fund his play? 
Woody Allen.
In Bullets Over Broadway, his 
25th film, Allen gives us a differ­
ent perspective on Broadway dur-
Woody Allen’s style of humor is 
well-reflned in this film, making 
Bullets Over Broadway a great 
success.
ing the 1930s, told only as he 
himself could tell it.
David Shayne (John Cusack, 
The Grifters) is a playwright who 
writes plays that are “too com­
plex” for the audience.
With David’s luck running out, 
his producer friend talks to Nick 
Valenti (Joe Viterelli, Ruby) to 
fund the production. He agrees, 
but on the condition that his girl­
friend Olive (Jennifer Tilly, The 
Doors) can have a role in the play.
Eventually the whole play is 
cast, with an ensemble of the 
strangest characters, each with 
unique traits.
Aging, drunk, and becoming a 
failure, actress Helen Sinclair 
(Dianne Wiest, Parenthood) is 
flamboyant, eccentric, and, since
her last two plays have bombed, 
willing to take on any part she 
gets with more charisma than 
Rosalyn Russell did in “Mame.”
Famed British Actor Warner 
Purcell (Jim Broadbent, En­
chanted April) seems a bit nor­
mal at first, but the slightest bit 
of nervousness turns him into a 
non-stop eating machine — a 
slight problem when the part 
you’re cast for calls for you to be 
fit and proper.
Eden Brent (Tracey Ullman) is 
a high-strung, overly-cheerful 
actress who, although not as ex­
troverted as Sinclair, comes 
pretty close to making you want 
to turn her off and put her in the 
closet.
And finally, we have Olive, who 
aside from not being able to act, 
can make you want to shoot her 
since she’s so damn annoying.
Jennifer Tilly does a (sadly) 
wonderful job as Olive. She is so 
irritating that she is perfect for 
the role.
Dianne Weist is no longer calm 
and complacent; she takes on a 
role that lets her be so “big” that 
I almost was entranced by her 
performance.
Cusack is the Woody Allen re­
placement for this film; we see 
the movie through his eyes, and 
yet we can’t even begin to under­
stand what he wants to achieve.
He is consistently bantered 
about his works, and we can see 
why: they are too complex and 
deep for anyone to comprehend
— including the actors to whom 
he wants to deliver his ideas!
This is a film that could very 
well mark Allen’s return to con­
temporary comedy with a touch 
of farcical humor. It can easily be 
likened to his other movies such 
as Broadway Danny Rose and 
The Purple Rose of Cairo.
But for some reason, this film 
has a whole feeling about it that 
kept me entranced; there was not 
a boring part in this film.
The plot was fairly predictable, 
but the laughs just kept on com­
ing.
A lot of the jokes would easily 
be missed if one has not seen an 
Allen film before, so I recommend 
not seeing this film until you have 
seen The Purple Rose of Cairo or 
Sleeper.
But once you have, make sure 
you see Bullets Over Broadway. I 
can guarantee that if you like 
Allen, you’ll love this film.
Toots jazzes it up on new album
By BILL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
Artist: Toots Thieleman 
Album: East Coast West Coast
There is nothing I like better than to listen to 
music especially good music, and, boy, did I find 
it in this CD. The CD is called Toots Thieleman’s 
East Coast West Coast. If you even remotely like 
jazz, then this is a must-have album. A stellar 
cast of musicians give impressive renditions of 
many jazz greats.
Musicians from the East coast range from 
Joshua Redman on tenor sax to Troy Davis on 
drums. Both of them—in fact all of the east coast 
musicians (there are eight in all) — give impres­
sive standing ovation performances. Joshua 
Redman gives new meaning to the word mellow 
on some of his instrumental solos. Although few 
in number for a player of his stature, he has to 
compete with the outstanding list of West coast 
musicians.
Headed by the award winning Herbie Hancock 
on piano, the West coast jams to the fullest. Some 
ofthe renditions include classic “Dizzy” Gillespie 
songs among others. There are 13 tracks on the 
album and all are explosive in musicianship.
© wimam uiaxton 
Whatever it is I think I see, becomes a 
Tootsie Thieleman Roll to me! Check out 
this album if you love jazz or even think you 
might like jazz just a little.
Peter Erskine, who plays drums, does 
an adequate job of keeping up with 
Hancock on piano. Hancock, whose nor­
mally subdued and laid-back style, car­
ries a weight all it’s own, breaks tradi­
tion and just lets loose. His melodious 
rhythms carry the majority of the tracks. 
Lyle Mays, who plays the piano for the 
East coast, just pales in comparison. I 
dare say that it’s like comparing 
Beethoven’s fifth symphony to Chop­
sticks.
Tracks on the disc include: “Naima,” 
which was written by John Coltrane, and 
“Groovin’ High,” which was written by 
John “Dizzy” Gillespie.
On the back of the CD case was a quote 
that I felt was appropriate to share, “In 
the world of jazz, (Toots) Thielemans 
remains one of a kind, an artist of unique 
musical and personal charm. An hour 
under his spell is a rare and rewarding 
experience.”— Leonard Feather.
Now, I don’t know exactly who Leonard 
Feather is, but his quote is definitely 
accurate. Not normally an avid jazz fan, 
I was highly impressed with this disc. 
Check it out!

---------------------------------------------------

\0tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPf
Burnt pizza lacks oomph
The Pizza Reviews
by Jon Slenk and the Pizza 
Review Board
Michael G’s
This week we sampled the pizza 
from Michael G’s, located in the 
heart of lovely downtown Oak­
land, where the pizza’s cheap and 
hot.
Seriously, though, they brought 
us two pizzas, one pepperoni and 
one “specialty,” which, after sam­
pling it, would be better named 
the “oddity” of the house. In order 
to not get ahead of myself, I bet­
ter start at the beginning.
The Pepperoni
When we opened the first box, 
we were greeted with the sight of 
a slightly burnt pie. The pep­
peroni itself was actually black­
ened. “Hmm?” we thought, “per­
haps this is the specialty pie — 
some of sort of quasi-Cajun at­
tempt at novelty?” Not really. It 
was just burnt. It did give the 
pepperoni a sort of lively beef- 
jerky-like quality, though.
The cheese fell prey to this 
unique baking technique also. It 
was made rubbery and salty by 
overcooking and didn’t have much 
flavor otherwise. The sauce was 
pleasant enough, though it wasn’t 
very flavorful and lacked the 
usual array of spices found in 
your basic pizza sauce.
Perhaps the strangest thing 
about the whole experience was 
the scent that was emanating 
from the crust. Upon closer in­
spection (i.e. actually sticking 
one’s nose close enough to the 
underside of a piece to get a good 
whiff), we found that it smelled 
somewhat like Pillsbury Crescent 
Rolls, and a reviewer could have 
sworn she smelled cinnamon.
The “Specialty”
When we asked for the spe­
cialty over the phone, they in­
formed us that it would be a sea­
food pizza.
As a result, I was expecting 
some sort of white pizza with 
maybe lots of garlic and some 
baby shrimp and sea legs (faux 
crab meat made from whitefish 
— quite good, actually). What we 
got was a few sea legs thrown 
onto the normal cheese pie that 
was described above. They were 
tasteless and completely dried 
out. Not very impressive.
One reviewer was quoted as
saying, “They taste like a piece 
ofplastic that somebody rubbed 
some crab on.” That may seem 
a little harsh, but it was basi­
cally true.
The Numbers
Crust: We gave a low score 
of 4 and a high of 5.
Sauce: The sauce wasn’t too 
bad, and received 5s all round.
Cheese: Here we have a low 
of 4 and a high of 5.
Pepperoni: The scores here 
ranged from 4 up to a high of 6.
Specialty: Here we have 3s 
from everyone.
Conclusion
The pepperoni pie was, pretty 
much, a bit below what we 
would consider average. If it 
hadn’t been cooked quite so 
much, it would probably have 
scored a couple of points higher 
— perhaps we were unlucky 
and received an unusually 
overcooked pie.
The crab meat pie was, well, 
basically yucky because of the 
poor topping and odd flavor 
combination of seafood and 
sauce.
If we average together our 
team’s numbers, we get an 
overall score of 4.5, which on 
our 10-point scale is just below 
average.
Cyborgs attack again
Bock beer rumors demystified
The Comer Table
by Jim Zelenka & 
Jon Ferro
Sometimes the rumor mill can 
be downright annoying. For in­
stance, rumor has it that we pro­
duce this column because we have 
no lives, and all we do is sit around 
and drink beer. That’s not true; 
we also make our own. The ru­
mor mill is as active in the uni­
verse of beer as it is anywhere 
else, and sometimes it really gets 
our goat (or “bock,” as the Ger­
mans would say).
Now don’t get us wrong: we like 
spreading rumors just as much 
as the next people. After all, if it 
weren’t for spreading rumors 
while drinking beer, there would 
be no Guinness Book. However, 
when it comes to our favorite bev­
erage, nothing less than an ex­
haustive (and repeated) analysis 
will suffice.
Rumor Number One: Bock 
beer is the beer from the “bottom 
of the vat/barrel.”
Status: False.
Bock beers are traditionally 
brewed at the end of the fall and 
spring brewing seasons. Because 
they are generally stronger and 
darker than the brews which pre­
cede them, it is a commonly held 
belief that sediment from previ­
ous brews remaining on the bot­
tom of an uncleaned vat contrib­
utes to the character of this type 
of beer. Like many popular be­
liefs, this is just plain wrong.
Rumor Number Two: The
bock style calls for a dark beer 
that is sometimes strong.
Status: False.
Generally, a bock is a strong 
beer that’s sometimes dark. How­
ever, labelling is often confused 
by legislation, especially in the 
United States, where beer label­
ling laws exist at both the state 
and federal level. For example, 
one of Pierre Celis’s magnificent 
brews is sold as “Celis Pale Bock,” 
despite the fact that it is a pale 
ale. Texas labelling laws forced 
our favorite Austin brewer to 
mislead his customers. If you find 
European bock too weak, you are 
ready to move on to the 
doppelbock style, which by law in 
Germany has a minimum grav­
ity of 16 Plato, usually producing 
an Alcohol Percentage Value of 
not less than 6.7 percent. (Note 
that this is not the same as the 
Belgian doppel which we dis­
cussed in the previous column.) 
Many of the strongest bocks can 
be recognized by their names end­
ing in the letters “ator,” such as 
Spaten Optimator and Dock 
Street Illuminator. (Now that FX 
Matt’s version is being bottled, 
maybe we’ll see some on this side 
of the Alleghenies.)
Rumor Number Three: The
bock style is named after the town 
of Einbeck, Germany.
Status: Who knows?
This may well be true, and 
Einbeck, a brewing center dating 
back to the Hanseatic League, 
has an excellent claim to this 
distinction, but it’s just too long 
ago to be able to decide this one. 
Michael Jackson (the one with an 
actually useful job, reviewingbeer 
and other drinks around the 
world) prefers the theory that, 
over the course of a drinking bout, 
requests for the beer would de­
generate from “Ein Einbecker, 
bitte,” to “Einenbecker!” to 
“Boooock!” Just to keep the ru-
mor mill running, we offer the 
following theory instead: Back at 
the beginning of all this confu­
sion, two gentlemen of a brewing 
bent decided to settle the ques­
tion of whose beer was stronger 
the only intelligent way — by 
drinking each other’s brew until 
one passed out. Several hours 
into the ugly scene, one happened 
to stumble on the way to refill his 
stein. Seeking to avoid any pos­
sible claim of forfeiture, he spot­
ted a goat grazing nearby and 
claimed that he had been kicked. 
“Ha!” the other roared back, “The 
goat that kicked you was brewed 
by me!”
Who are you going to believe?
Jon Ferro is a twenty something 
slacker who is still lobbying for 
“beverage service” at bridge tour­
naments to truly live up to its 
name. Jim Zelenka is a Research 
Systems Programmer in SCS who 
hopes the rumor that Elle 
McPherson is to replace Emma 
Thompson in Jane Eyre proves 
false.
Augusf-Schell Bock
August-Schell Bock is a me­
dium-brown beer with a 
moderately malty body and 
a rich, pleasant, nose. 
There's a bit of a bite to the 
start, but the finish is smooth 
and malty.
Dock Street Illuminator
Dock Street Illuminator is a 
lively, effervescent maibock 
("May bock": a bock tradi­
tionally produced at the end 
of the spring brewing sea­
son). We haven't had the 
opportu n ity to try the FX Matt 
bottled version yet; we hope 
that it lives up to the stan­
dard set by the Dock Street 
brewery. This beer has a 
dark golden body with a 
slightly malty flavour. The 
finish is slightly sweet, and 
the nose has a delicately 
understated hop character.
Cincinnati Bock
Cincinnati Bock is an ex­
ample of the traditional bock 
style being overridden in the
marketplace by labelling 
laws. Labelled a bock, it 
proved to be an adequately 
hopped dark lager.
Rogue Maibock
Rogue Maibock is slightly 
reddish-gold in color. The 
nose is strongly flowery, with 
an almost-hidden hop char­
acter. The body is smooth 
and slightly sweet, without 
being overwhelming. The 
hopping hinted at in the nose 
comes through more strongly 
in the finish, along with a 
sweet, malty flavour.
Penn Maibock
Penn Maibock is a disap­
pointment. Given the Allegh­
eny Brewing Company's 
stated dedication to faith­
fully reproducing German 
styles, I hoped for more out 
of their maibock than a sug­
ary version of Penn Pilsner. 
The nose was weak, the body 
was masked by the sugars, 
and the less said about the 
finish, the better.
Over 10 years ago, James 
Cameron directed a little movie 
called The Terminator. It was a 
big box office smash, paving the 
way for Arnold Schwarzenegger’s 
role in Raw Deal and 
lots of rip-offs in the 
genre. That’s what 
this week’s column 
is about: those films 
which just weren’t 
up to the same level 
as Terminator, or 
even RoboCop, for 
that matter.
“It can’t be rea­
soned with. It does 
not feel remorse.” 
—Michael 
Biehn as Reese in 
The Terminator
In my opinion, one 
of the biggest disappointments 
was Jean-Claude Van Damme’s 
Cyborg. The plot follows Van 
Damme in his quest to assist a 
cyborgfemale in a post-apocalyp­
tic future world....
What’s really cool about this 
film is how utterly preposterous 
it is. Everyone who’s anyone in 
this film has a curved dagger 
with which to fight; although, the 
only projectile weapons available 
are flaming wooden spikes. 
Maybe I can’t suspend my disbe­
lief long enough to believe that 
these goofy daggers are more 
readily available than a police 
.38, but I think it’s pretty silly.
Van Damme gets himself into 
all sorts of wacky situations, like 
the part where he is to be cruci­
fied on the mast of a ship in the 
middle of the desert. The major 
problem with this film is that it’s 
just not very entertaining.
“I am a cyborg: living tissue 
over metal endoskeleton.”
—Arnold Schwarzenegger in 
Terminator 2: Judgment Day
Our next film is a little gem 
called R.O.T.O.R. That’s sup­
posed to be an acronym for some­
thing about a robot officer or some­
thing, but I can’t remember.
The R.O.T.O.R. is a cyborg po­
lice officer designed “To judge and 
execute” in the future, when crime 
has become unbearable. How­
ever, somebody goofs and he gets 
thawed out now, which means he 
spends the rest of the film stalk­
ing a speeder with the intent to 
kill.
Only two people (well, three if 
you count a very obvious stunt 
double in the climactic fight scene)
© 1987 TriStar Pictures 
You know Ah-nold better 
as the Terminator, a cyborg 
from the future.
can stop the R.O.T.O.R.: his cre­
ators. This leads to the symbol­
ism in the film: the woman who 
designed the R.O.T.O.R.’s “com­
bat chassis” attempts to stop it 
with physical force, while the man 
^ - who created his mind (and has 
'"lie 1*5 the amazing ability to change his 
by Carey Clevenger shirt under a jacket while driv- 
HHHHim ing, but you have to watch really 
closely) attempts to outsmart it. 
Of course, if they really wanted to 
outsmart it, they would utilize 
the robot that they have back at 
police headquarters: it seems 
more human than 
most of the other 
characters in the 
film (and it has 
more of a person­
ality and a sense 
of humor).
In fact, it’s re­
ally too bad that 
neither of these 
brilliant scientists 
(who had the time 
to engineer a mus­
tache for the 
R.O.T.O.R. unit) 
realized that the 
robot at police 
headquarters was 
possibly the most 
advanced AI on the entire planet, 
and that it would have been a 
much better selection for the 
R.O.T.O.R. anyway.
“OCP pioneering cyborg tech­
nology. State of the art destruc­
tive capabilities.”
—Unknown speaker in 
RoboCop 2
I was really disappointed with 
Cyborg Cop, largely 
because it was a 
good hour or so be­
fore I even got to 
see any cyborg ac­
tion. Up until then, 
it was just an ex­
cuse for a second- 
rate action romp set 
in Latin America.
But when the cy­
borg action starts, 
it doesn’t quit!
The last 20 min­
utes or so is non­
stop cyborg mania!
A melee between 
two cyberized guys 
follows, and they 
do a lot of damage.
The title is a bit misleading, 
though; the cyborg isn’t really a
fetus, which is apparently being 
held in some sort of external 
womb) from evil cyborgs. As I 
said, I have not seen it, but it 
certainly sounds like it’s worth 
watching.
“If you’re going to dine with the 
devil, then you’re going to need a 
long spoon!”
—Jack Palance in Cyborg 
2: Glass Shadow
This is a first for “File 13”: a 
film that I actually enjoyed. Cy­
borg 2: Glass Shadow was in­
tended to be a sequel to the Van 
Damme film which I mentioned 
earlier; forunately, however, it 
has very little to do with it, other 
than a few brief flashback scenes.
Pinwheel Robotics, an evil U.S. 
corporation, has built a very so­
phisticated cyborg capable of hu­
man emotion, and they are going 
to send her to Japan to destroy 
the board room of their chief com­
petitors.
Helping her escape to an island
— the only place on Earth where 
cyborgs are free — is her martial 
arts instructor and boyfriend Colt 
(played by Elias Koteas, if you 
know who he is). Rounding out 
the cast are Billy Drago (John 
Bly from Fox’s “Adventures of 
Brisco County Junior”) as 
bounty hunter, and Jack Palance 
as an enigmatic (and nearly om­
niscient) man known as Mercy. 
Tracey Walter plays a brief role 
as a medic.
This is one slick film. It really
— without trying to sound cliché
— has it all: a love story, lots of 
violence, suspense, and even some
* •• 
» •
© 1987 Orion Pictures Corporation 
RoboCop is one of them cyborgs you see on the 
tee-vee, yessir he is.
police officer while in that state.
“Come quietly or there will be 
trouble!”
—Peter Weller in RoboCop
I am unable to describe Ameri­
can Cyborg: Steel Justice with a 
lot of authority, because I haven’t 
seen it. I only know what I was 
told by a friend: that it is the 
story of a good cyborg in his ef­
forts to protect the Earth’s only 
remaining fertile female (and her
witty dialogue. Billy Drago is just 
as maniacal as he usually is, and 
Jack Palance is just weird enough 
to be likeable. Cyborg2 is almost 
the Highlander of cyborg films. A 
must see for cyborg fans.
“I’ll be back.”
—Arnold Scwarzenegger 
in The Terminator
Carey Clevenger is a junior cre­
ative writing major. He signed 
the forms, we can do whatever we 
want to, right? So lose the arm.
Generations pulls through
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
Movie: Star Trek: Generations
Who: Patrick Stewart, William Shatner (and most
other crew members)
Where: Squirrel Hill and Monroeville
One of the most eagerly anticipated films this 
winter, Star Trek: Generations is the first film that 
involves the “Next Generation” crew, and the last 
film (we think) that involves the “Original Series” 
crew members. This film was one that could have 
easily bombed. It promised James T. Kirk (William 
Shatner), Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart), and 
both crews saving the universe. Well, almost.
First it was going to have both casts in their 
entirety. Then people started dropping out due to 
salary concerns. The script was rewritten. After 
many negotiations, the entire TNG (“The Next 
Generation”) crew was signed for the film by March 
4,1994. On the other side, only Shatner, James 
“Scotty” Doohan, and Walter “Chekov” Koenig 
signed. Eventually they filmed the thing, and, 
after a few screenings, decided to re-film the end.
Rather than ruin anything for you, I’ll just quickly 
tell you the premise behind the story. The Enter- 
prise-B (with Kirk & Co. on board — but not in 
charge) encounters a temporal distortion, a “Nexus,” 
where time has no meaning and a sense of euphoria 
takes over. Anyway, there is a Doctor Soran 
(Malcolm McDowall, A Clockwork Orange) who 
wants to get back into the Nexus, and he doesn’t
care how. Well, it looks like Picard & Co. will have 
to stop him. Plot-wise, it’s only an okay story, but 
all in all, I was pleasantly surprised. Shatner 
seems to have finally completed his acting lessons 
for this film, and it shows. A truly moving — and 
funny—performance, indeed. Stewart is the usual 
thespian, but he lends an air of seriousness and 
emotion rarely found in the television show. Brent 
“Data” Spiner provided a lot of comedic moments, 
and Malcolm McDowall played a very devious and 
conniving villain for this film.
Industrial Light and Magic have outdone them­
selves with this film. Combinations of miniature 
models and computer graphics made the special 
effects in this film hundreds of times more realistic 
and better than any Trek movie (or show) before. 
The new department on the Enterprise, Stellar 
Cartography, produced “oohs” and “aahs” from the 
audience every minute. If you are not a big Trek 
fan, or haven’t watched much of TNG, then you’ll 
probably be a bit disappointed by this film. In­
jokes, and references to past episodes are scattered 
all over the place. But then again, would you watch 
Return of the Jedi having not seen any of the other 
Star Wars films, and seriously expect to “know” the 
characters and references? I think not.
This week, whether you are at home, or stranded 
here on campus, make an effort to see this film 
(unless you’re one of the people described in the 
previous paragraph). You’ll find that it was well 
worth the effort. Star Trek: Generations is playing 
at The Manor Theater in Squirrel Hill, and at 
Showcase East in Monroeville.

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPf\P
Tannin« * Nails • Waving • Facials 
We Carry
Aveda • Paul Mitchell ? Matrix • Nexxus 
Sebastian * Tri ? Redkin • Gold well 
Image • Sukesha * OPi • Skincare * Makeup 
Open Seven Days a Week and Most Evenings 
813 South Aiken 
682-4063 
Save $4.00 on Haircuts 
9 am to 2 pm Monday thru Friday 
(with select stylist)
Cranes still drone on Perlman disappoints
while Quartet thrills
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Artist: Cranes 
Album: Loved 
Suggested Tracks: Um....
I remember the first time I saw the Cranes. They 
were promoting their first album by opening for 
The Cure on their Wish tour. I remember liking
But, nope, Alison Shaw’s vocals are still bounc­
ing off the walls, and I turned off my CD player an 
hour ago.
She also doesn’t really seem to care—in “lilies,” 
she sings her refrain in a voice that just seems to 
say, “yeah, I got signed, and you’re suffering through 
it with me, so why give a damn about anything, 
anyway, etc.” while her bandmates are, for once, 
really and truly rocking around her, particularly 
guitarist James Shaw, who saved the song (and, in
them a lot, thinking that the vocalist was kind of some ways, the album) by riffing it into the walls, 
sweet, and that the music was quite good. If you want to be mesmerized for no reason, pick
I can’t imagine why I thought 
any of these things, now.
Loved is the presumptuously- 
titled third Arista effort by the 
droney quartet that seems to 
combine the vocals of Cocteau 
Twins with the guitars of Mazzy 
Star and the drums of Depeche 
Mode.
In other words, they have ev­
ery attribute I’ve violently hated 
from virtually every band (and 
their spawn) I’ve violently hated.
Loved features an hour of vir­
tual drone and lethargy that I 
believe they like to refer to as 
“experimental music,” laced with 
long, monotonously over-orches- 
trated symphonies of blah, from 
the fast and boring “shining 
road,” to the slow and boring “in 
the night,” followed by, oh, lucky 
us, extra remixes of “shining 
road,” “paris and rome,” and “lil­
ies.” It’s bad enough that they 
bored us the first time; why do 
they feel that they have to bore 
us again, only with a new vari­
ance on the theme? Ugh.
I wish I could hum in print. Try 
and imagine what four counts of 
one note, followed by four counts 
of another note one step above the first, followed by 
four more counts of the first note (which didn’t 
really impress me the first time), followed by....
Well, you get the idea. I don’t know, some people 
might like this stuff, but it really bores me. I mean, 
by the third time around, you’d think that they’d 
realize that the echo effect can be turned off.
The Cranes, a Cure wanna-be group of four, are moody, natty, broody, 
droney, pouty, and just plain boring. Skip this album, Loved, and call the 
Nields.
up this album. Otherwise, I’ll just ask you to 
support the Nields again, who I still think is an 
excellent independent band.
That number again is 1-800-5-NIELDS, folks. 
Call it now, and save the reputation of music as we 
know it.
Russell talks about comics
Comic Book 
Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
P. Craig Russell’s 22 year ca­
reer in comics is quite a multi­
faceted one. His credits include 
superhero books like Rom and 
Robin 3000, comic book 
adaptations of Michael 
Moorcock’s sword and 
sorcery hero Elric of 
Melibone, adaptations of 
literary classics like 
Rudyard Kipling’s Jungle 
Book and The Fairy Tales 
of Oscar Wilde, and ad­
aptations of operas like 
Wagner’s Parsifal and 
Mozart’s The Magic 
Flute.
In addition, there have 
been various smaller 
projects and numerous 
inking assignments for 
virtually every comic 
book company that has 
existed during his more 
than two decade career.
Russell, upon graduat­
ing from the University 
of Cincinnati with a de­
gree in painting in the 
early 1970s, sought out 
Dan Atkins, then an
number says that] this is a work 
and it counts.”
The first volumes of The Fairy 
Tales of Oscar Wilde are two of 
Russell’s most recent opuses. The 
third volume of Russell’s adapta­
tions of Wilde’s nine fairy tales 
will be coming in the spring of 
1995.
Recently Russell returned from 
a successful tour promoting the 
first two books. “It was good, [yet] 
very busy. I drove everywhere. 
There were good turnouts at most 
stores. Plus, I didn’t just go to
P/UFtr TALES
OSÇfl 
VI LDE
ILLUSTRATED • BY
P. CRAIG *
© P. Craig Kussen 
P.Craig Russell illustrates Fairy Tales of 
Oscar Wilde in addition to many other 
comic book adaptations and superhero 
books.
inker for Marvel Comics, in neigh- comic book shops; I got to visit 
boring East Liverpool about get- friends and some museums,” he
ting into the comics field. Atkins 
took him under his wing and be­
came somewhat of a sponsor for 
Russell. This association with
said.
Russell read the Wilde’s fairy 
tales towards the beginning of 
his career and rediscovered them
Atkins led to Russell’s first pro when, “I was casting around for 
work as penciller on Marvel’s new projects. [I wanted to do
Chamber of Chills and other hor­
ror books. From there Russell 
spent some time on Antman and 
Morbius and then to Killraven in 
the spring of 1974.
Because Russell’s work is 
spread over many companies and 
genres, he has developed a way
something] not so photorealistic, 
more playful, more influenced by 
animation.”
When asked to pick the work of 
which he is most proud, Russell 
laughed and said, “Who’s your 
favorite child?”
Of his “children,” Russell se-
for fans to keep track of his work, lected his adaptation of Clive 
Inspired by composers who do Barker’s Human Remains, 
the same, Russell numbers the Salome, and Red Dog (the middle 
opening page of each of his works volume of his Jungle Book adap- 
with an Opus number. “[Since] tation). Those are only stories for 
I’m all over the map ... [the opus which he adapted and provided
the art. He lists “Ramadan,” writ­
ten by Neil Gaiman for Sandman 
#50, as his favorite art assign­
ment. “I wouldn’t have done ad­
aptations if all scripts were that 
good.”
Gaiman also ranks as Russell’s 
favorite living collaborator, with 
Oscar Wilde and Rudyard Kipling 
as his favorite deceased collabo­
rators.
As far as a “dream collabora­
tor,” Russell’s dream has come 
true with working with Ray 
Bradbury with his adaptation of 
“Golden Apples of the Sun” for 
the Ray Bradbury Chronicles.
As far as influences on his di­
verse style, Russell lists the turn 
of the century French and 
Belguim illustrators and Dr. 
Seuss.
Russell’s favorite part of his job 
is scripting and layout, with pen­
cilling being the most difficult 
part. Inking falls into a some­
what monotonous area: “I’m ink­
ing [The Spring Running, the 
third and concluding book to the 
Jungle Book adaptation] while 
I’m on the phone.”
Not only does Russell ink his 
own work, he is also in great 
demand for inking others’ work. 
“I will ink other people’s work, 
but I won’t let other people ink 
my work.”
Mike Mignola, whom Russell 
has inked on numerous occasions 
(such as Ironwolf: Fires of the 
Revolution and Batman: Gotham 
by Gaslight), is a favorite pencil­
ler to ink. “If I have to ink anyone, 
it would be Mike. We’re very com­
patible.”
Russell’s future projects include 
the continuation of The Fairy 
Tales of Oscar Wilde and the con­
clusion to the Jungle Book with 
The Spring Running, plus an ad­
aptation of Michael Moorcock’s 
Elric novel Stormbringer. This 
time, Russell will be doing the 
scripting, too, rather than work­
ing with Roy Thomas. Russell 
will also be appearing at the Mid- 
Ohio Con in Columbus on No­
vember 26 and 27.
Jason Andracki, a sophomore 
professional writing major, would 
like to thank Mr. P. Craig Russell 
for taking the time to do this in­
terview. It is greatly appreciated.
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week, the Carnegie Music Hall served as 
the concert stage for two different performances 
featuring two of the world’s most renowned musi­
cal collaborations.
On Monday night, the Pittsburgh Chamber Music 
Society concert series featured the Emerson String 
Quartet, and on Wednesday night the Y Music 
Society held the latest 
installment of its recital 
series featuring violin­
ist Itzhak Perlman and 
pianist Samuel Sanders.
With numerous award 
winning recordings and 
performances, the Em­
erson String Quartet 
has proven itself to be, 
arguably, the nation’s 
greatest string quartet.
Similarly, Itzhak Perl­
man, easily the most fa­
mous living violinist, 
has proven his unique 
gift for violin playing 
time and time again.
While both groups had the potential to give an 
amazing performance, only one actually succeeded 
in doing so.
Itzhak Perlman and Samuel Sanders succeeded 
in perpetuating a prominent myth about classical 
music: the notion that classical music is an effec­
tive sedative. Perlman and Sanders began with 
the Suite in the Old Style by Alfred Schnittke, a 
composer known for his rather intriguing use of 
past musical styles.
Unfortunately, Perlman and Sanders quickly 
transformed this work into the Suite in the “Dull” 
Style, as Sanders plod­
ded his way through 
the first of the five 
movements. Perl­
man’s seemingly life­
less playing failed to 
capture any of the ex­
citement this strange 
piece had to offer. The 
performance only de­
teriorated from this 
point forward.
Their rendition of 
the Brahms Sonata in 
E-flat Major (Op. 120,
No. 2) refused to ex­
tract any of the staid 
romantic qualities for 
which Brahms is best 
known. To be played 
successfully, this 
Brahms Sonata, like 
most others, requires 
a great deal of fresh 
energy from both the 
piano and violin.
Sanders and Perl­
man, however, could 
not manage anything 
but a heavy-handed, somber approach. Their 
performance of the three Hungarian Dances 
showed a few hints of greatness but failed to 
escape from the already established monotony.
After the intermission, I had hoped that Perlman 
and Sanders would come alive for the more mod­
em and exciting Bartok pieces. Unfortunately, 
consistency prevailed, and Perlman and Sanders 
plodded through the Bart6k Sonata No. 2 for violin 
and piano, leaving all but the actual notes of the 
composer behind.
Because of the natural vigor of the Bart6k Roma­
nian Folk Dances, Perlman and Sanders had a 
great opportunity to redeem themselves, but even 
the wonderful color of these works failed to inspire 
either Perlman or Sanders. In fact, the most excit­
ing event of this concert was the ineptitude of the 
page turner. Her inability to follow along through 
relatively few pages of music resulted in numer­
ous “accidents” on the keyboard. Amazingly 
enough, these accidents created more suspense 
and interest for the audience than the whole per­
formance did.
: © V Music Society
Itzhak Perlman (left) and Samuel Sanders(right) were 
not at their peak during their performance in the 
Carnegie Music Hall.
Music Society
The Emerson String Quartet gave a refreshing 
and exciting performance.
Perlman’s touching encore of music from 
Prokofiev, Stravinsky, and John Williams’ music 
from Schindler's List was a small gem amidst the 
disappointing events from that evening.
Technically flawless, their performance simply 
failed to strike me as being very musical.
While it is unquestionable that Perlman and 
Sanders are virtuosos of the highest caliber, their 
performance lacked the warmth, energy, and inspi­
ration that usually accompanies their presence.
The Emerson 
String Quartet, on 
the other hand, 
showed themselves 
to be one of the most 
exciting and intel­
ligent musical en­
sembles in the 
world.
The group per­
formed works by 
Beethoven, as well 
as Debussy and 
Paul Epstein, a 
noted contempo­
rary composer.
This particular 
concert was dedi­
cated to Norman Rice, retired Dean of the College 
of Fine Arts of Carnegie Mellon University.
The group’s relentless energy was evident even 
before the concert began. As they arrived on the 
concert stage, the group seemed unusually eager to 
start playing.
This energy acted as one of the driving forces 
behind their outstanding performance. The play­
ers dove into Beethoven’s Quartet in F minor (Op. 
95, “Serioso”) with an unparalleled level of youth 
and vigor.
The particular difficulty of the Beethoven String 
Quartets makes this feat 
even more impressive. 
Violinist Philip Setzer 
did not disappoint in his 
ability to carry the piece 
through some of the 
most trying moments.
Cellist David Finckel 
and violinist Eugene 
Drucker only added to 
Setzer’s inspired play­
ing, while violist 
Lawrence Dutton pro­
vided the group’s cohe­
sion with his warm tone.
The next piece on the 
program, Epstein’s 
String Quartet, “In 
Memory of My Feel­
ings,” was preceded with 
a commentary from the 
composer himself. Dur­
ing this commentary, 
Epstein mentioned the 
influences of Jimi 
Hendrix, Thelonious 
Monk, and Joseph 
Haydn.
While listening to his 
composition, I could certainly identify these influ­
ences. Unfortunately, while I distinctly heard 
Hendrix, Monk, and Haydn, I failed to hear Epstein. 
Though it did contain various interesting passages 
and several highly expressive moments, Epstein 
failed to evoke a convincing portrait of the “Memory 
of My Feelings.” Overall, the piece was an admi­
rable failure.
Finally, the quartet gave a rather stirring and 
inventive performance of the Debussy String Quar­
tet. Certainly the highlight of the show, the quartet 
brought out all of the mysterious energy and pas­
sion that the Debussy has to offer. Their incredible 
technical skill, combined with a sensitivity and 
warmth few, if any, possess, made this particular 
rendition of the Debussy a most impressive feat.
While Perlman and Sanders showed the disas­
trous effects of failing to infuse their own energy 
within some of the most standard works in the 
repertoire, the members of the Emerson String 
Quartet proved themselves capable of achieving 
the most difficult of goals: an exciting and inspiring 
musical performance.

---------------------------------------------------

JilMar kEgeliEt
LOWEST STUDENT AIRFARES TO EUROPE / ASIAnycMrgraduates are cordiallyFLIGHTS'I favour fSEE Student Flight Catalog mall thb coupon I MTERM010NAL STUDENT EXCHANGE 0,P?SxrE k 5010 E. Shea BVd, Suite A • 104 _, Scottsdale. AZBS2S4 USA or Call: V —(602) 951-1700 I 014 MU"
jmation
ivision
We're almost there. Fidelity Investments0 will be on 
campus on Thursday, December 1st. This could be 
the first step in your terrific career path. Intrigued? 
We hope so. If you're a dynamic, hard-working indi­
vidual with an entrepreneurial spirit, there could be 
a place for you at Fidelity. If you're interested, come 
talk to us.
Thursday, December 1, 1994 from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
Student Center (on campus). Room 208 
Refreshments to follow% 1994 at 6:30 PM
The Systems Company of Fidelity Investments* provides development, operations, and technol­
ogy services to the business units of Fidelity Investments. We are currently recruiting graduating 
seniors for a select number of positions in the Systems Company Associates Program. The pro­
gram includes four rotating assignments over a 24-month period in various system areas. It pro­
vides ongoing technical and business training as well as a one-to-one coaching relationship with 
a Systems Company Manager.
Associates will work with information-systems solutions across multiple technological plat­
forms; operate in a progressive information-technology environment; and participate in the 
development and support of technology that is strategically critical to the success of the firm. 
Extensive business and technical training will be provided.
To qualify, you should have experience in one of the following areas: Information Systems, 
Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mathematics, or BSET. Additionally, you should pos­
sess an interest in financial services and securities industries,demonstrate leadership and prob­
lem-solving skills. Related intern or technical work experience is desirable. A minimum 3.5 GPA 
is required.
'ent Activities .Center, Room 206
Fidelity
Fidelity Investments is committed to creating a diversified environment, 
and proud to be an equal opportunity employer.
^ iocp\tev jfj nie crupewr ¿avjree 
wOBOpy Does
CM U
'riice.oeoFT com oveeo 
FAUirA PLArree mcujvee-. 
help ¿ewree, ¿oMP>uriM£ cee-
ViCE5, TELECOH, SOFTWARE 
MAMA££M£Mr, AMP
rue radius nugjtzjro
¿<4i£.i COM COPLEY
Mim\'rmcee.o FT vTMeTmm
PACKAED 
rt-ie bouses crewAer
TACO (H/iUJ VOUfZ OAOtCE OF: 
ADOI3£,Ai-DUS, LOTUS, LOG\TEC(4,
Studetn oe ¿owwecrix
CAMERAS)
nig.ee emcuilada plate
(OM£ bGC, OKIE CUM AMD OM£ 
£W04iLADA)
COMiC i FAEALLOM COtf&O 
PLArree
lOME TALK COMPUTES^ WiriJ 
TUE CYlOI COMPUTES. ÇTOIZE 
AMP au EST V£MDO£S
nor ¿2 ÇPiCY NPPLE
W/CLA(2je fZiCE 
TtidEE AtAEM b£LL 
W/A SiDE OF AT&Timi e>Ae. e> Que
W/dEFQlED ùÇ/z
b£<T.?,10:00AH-5:00T?H

---------------------------------------------------

tud tensec p aencdrgd wdiikc p Sm CkodFAdn mPPfgc
Thursday, December 1
Kiss Me Deadly
Though less well known than its sequel Kiss Me 
French and trequel Kiss Me Sloppy and Wipe Your 
Chin, Kiss Me Deadly is still a wonderful movie. 
Directed by Robert Aldrich, this film is based on a 
Mickey Spillane novel about a detective who pro­
tects Cloris Leachman. However, please note that 
Cloris Leachman is not the character’s name, but 
is in fact the actress who plays a woman who is 
protected by Mickey Spillane’s character, Mike 
Hammer, who is played by a man not named Mike 
Hammer. It stars Ralph Meeker and Paul Stewart, 
who play characters not named Ralph Meeker and 
Paul Stewart.
This one should be pretty good. It has an interest­
ing plot and is in black and white. If you like 
detective novels or Mike Hammer, then you’re in 
luck. If you don’t, don’t look at me, I didn’t pick this 
one.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Friday, December 2
Threesome
I can’t get enough of that Golden Crisp, and this 
movie is no exception. Hoo, hoo, hoo, buster boy! 
There is nudity in this one, as well as sex and love 
and college-related themes, so it should be pretty 
swell. All about three students, Lara Flynn Boyle, 
Josh Charles, and Stephen Baldwin, who are mis­
takenly put in the same dorm room by the shoddy 
Housing Department, the movie deals with love, 
regular old lust, and other college-related themes. 
Directed by Andrew Fleming, this film was in the 
movie theatres for about two weeks, so it can’t suck 
too much.
A good date movie if you’re into lust and other 
college-related themes.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, December 3
The Mask
The Mask is a wacky comedy starring Jim Carrey 
as a wacky guy who puts a mask on his face and 
turns into a cartoon. He also has a cute little dog 
who turns into a cartoon, but just a little. Not 
nearly as much as Carrey.
©New Line Cinemas 
Jim Carrey does that tongue-thlng in The Mask.
Known mostly for his flexible face, Jim Carrey 
makes this hootenanny a scream. Wacka, wacka, 
fiends and neighbors! If you like hilarity hi-jinks, 
this one’s for you. Carrey does funny voices. Carrey 
does funny facial gestures. Carrey does the mambo. 
What more could you want?!
See this movie with someone who has a flexible 
face.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, December 4
Mr. Sardonicus
Yowza, yowza, deputy dog! This one is like a 
Choose Your Own Adventure Novel! Oscar Homolka 
plays Señor Sardonicus, an evil count with a funny 
looking grin who kidnaps a plastic surgeon. How’s 
it sound so far? Pretty good, huh?
Next, we see his little henchman cat who puts 
leeches on people’s faces and hangs out with Mr. 
Sardonicus’ wife! And get this: at one point, you, 
the audience, get to vote on Mrs. Sardonicus’ fate! 
The power, the glory! Imagine, people!
It’s no My Degeneration, but it’s a good date 
movie if you’re into voting in national elections.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Many groups start in Pittsburgh
LOCAL, from page LI 
The Gathering Field: One of the newer 
Pittsburgh folk-rock thingies, these guys 
sprouted up earlier this year with a nice- 
looking CD, and, from 
what I’ve heard, a nicer 
sound. An eclectic mix of 
rockin' originals and cov­
ers makes this band a 
must-see.
Dr. Jones: Acoustic 
and electric clash with 
rock and rap in this group 
which sprang from the 
Art Institute of Pitts­
burgh. Their hard-edged 
groove bakes like noth­
ing else from the moment 
they break into “Prolific 
Lie,” to the end of the set, 
filled with expert guitar 
method and professional- 
status vocals. They haven’t released any­
thing yet, aside from a one-track appearance
them. Hear them.
CFIMassive: Formerly known as Chill 
Factor International, these guys are one of 
Pittsburgh’s most fabled 
Reggae bands. They draw 
huge crowds, and their lat­
est release, extra Massive, 
carries a heavy groove and 
move on it. Go find it.
and
© WDVE
Paulsen and Krenn's unique style of 
Pittsburgh humor comes shining 
through in their annual releases. The 
latest of these is pictured above.
Scott Paulsen 
Jim Krenn: Basi­
cally, these guys are 
WDVE’s morning 
team. One year, the 
two decided to release 
a collection of their 
best stuff to benefit 
the Greater Pitts­
burgh Community 
Food Bank.
The collection, 
Hangin’Out ‘N’Nat, sold out, and paved 
the way for a new collection each week,
Decade (682-1211): Very rarely do these 
guys have an all ages night, but considering 
the roster of rock and roll acts, it’s worth the 
wait. Also an occasional venue for national 
artists. Check out the ring-around-the-build- 
ing list of previous bills.
Electric Banana (682-8296): Tres elec­
tric. Tres punk. These guys have hosted many 
a high school beat-off band, so all-ages nights 
are undoubtedly frequent. Got a band? Need 
a gig? Call Judy Banana.
with a different roster in AIP’s 13 Miles of filled with the best morning show bits
Dreams sampler, but they have gotten studio 
time, so hopefully something will take root 
from this seed.
The Means: Acoustic people who should 
pick up an electric guitar, The Means takes 
root in a duo of guitarist/vocalists, who do just
©Out of the Blue 
Out of the Blue. See them. That’s all there is 
to it.
fine, except that they have really long and 
extraneously speedy solos over really slow, 
droning music. It doesn’t quite sit well with 
me, but they’re good musicians, which comes 
across in their covers, and for that I have to 
respect them.
The Cynics: These guys are Pittsburgh’s 
most notorious guitar-punk style band. 
They’ve been releasing an album about once 
a year for, oh, eons now, and they hold inter­
national acclaim as well! Look ’em up for 
some good rockin’ gitter.
Squonk Opera: It’s rock! No, it’s jazz! No, 
it’s blues! No, it’s ... it’s ... it’s ... THEATRE? 
Yes, Squonk Opera is all of these things and 
more. Their first release, howandever, blends 
atmospheric drone with cool Jazz and a funky 
groove to boot. Find them. See them. Touch
of the year. The real highlights of the 
album, however, are Paulsen’s skill­
fully crafted tunes of humor, such as 
“Shoot Bambi,” “I Love You Dammit,” 
“Pittsburgh Girl,” and “Joe DiNardo 
(Desperado).” Really good stuff for local 
humor, and you can always find them 
gigging around.
There are a couple of different labels 
around here. Bogus Records and Blue 
Duck Records are the main ones, each 
harboring many a wayfaring local act. 
Particularly commendable is Blue Duck’s 
periodical sampler, Duck Tracks, which 
has featured acts like Rusted Root, 
Thickhead Grin, A.T.S, The Distractions, 
The Clarks, and many others, giving a show­
case of just how wide the local music spec­
trum is here. WDVE, however, rivals them 
with their annual Rock W Roll samplers, 
showcasing whatever bands and solo acts 
seem to be hot around the area at the time. 
Definitely worth the $9.99 they usually 
charge for the CD. Well, I won’t claim this to 
be a complete collection of Pittsburgh bands, 
because then we would get angry letters 
from all the groups I didn’t get to see. But 
hopefully, you get the point; the scene is as 
diverse as that jar of jelly beans at the front 
of the store that everyone dumps their extra 
beans into, to make a mesh of colors uninvit­
ing to the palate when eaten all at once, but 
dam nice to admire. The best way for you, 
the reader, to catch them, is probably on an 
all ages night here in Oakland, so here are 
the clubs around here:
Graffiti (682-4210): ROCK ‘N’ ROLL!!!! 
This one is a little out of the way, but well 
worth the trip. Many a Rusted Root/Out of 
the Blue type show was done here, using the 
dance floor to its full potential.
The Attic (682-2050): Located right above 
the Upstage, this place seems to be a nir­
vana for anyone searching for the fabled 
“wonder-bar.” Lots of pool tables, and other 
great stuff.
BEYOND THE STORMY BLAST
The Little Wretches
- j'J
©BammlBamm! Records ] 
The Little Wretches are a study in musical evolution, 
from the standard bar rock to the latest musical 
explorations. Definitely a band to listen to, if : 
you’re into watching a good band get better.
The Upstage (681-9777): Well, they don’t ; 
have much of a band scene there, but there’s ; 
a good amount of rockin’ and dancin’ to be ; 
had. See Jon Slenk’s article on page LI for ‘
» A.T.S. Î
A.T.S.’ albums are filled with rockabilly-jazz- 
country-blues fusion. On the album cover 
shown here, one can also see the extra value 
inherent in the CD, thanks to Evan Knauer’s 
excellent artistic abilities.
more info on this place, 
Pittsburgh’s night life.
and a slice of
The Beehive (687-WHAT): Hosts occa­
sional music acts, as well as a movie theatre 
and a few improv/theatre groups and read­
ings. It’s also quite convenient to campus.
Porter’s Frenchmen needs more energy
By RICHARD SMOLEN
Tartan Copy Manager
My grandparents were alive in 
1929, and, though they were 
barely teenagers, they could have 
seen one of the 254 Broadway 
performances of Cole Porter’s
York ini987. Four years later, a 
concert performance was given 
to rave reviews, and now the Pitts- 
burgh Public Theater has 
mounted the first major staging 
of Fifty Million Frenchmen in 65 
years.
The show’s subtitle, dropped 
from this version, 
is “a musical com­
edy tour of Paris.” 
Though many of 
Cole Porter’s 
shows are of his 
special brand of 
musical comedy, 
the songs of Fifty 
Million French­
men are more dar­
ingly funny than 
his later works. 
“Tale of the Oys­
ter” about a “bi- 
©Ric Evans valve social 
Don Goodspeed and Melodie Wolford play the climber” and 
roles of Peter Forbes and Looloo Carroll in Porter’s “Where Would 
Fifty Million Frenchman, at the Pgh. Pub. Theatre. You Get Your 
Fifty Million Frenchmen at the Coat?” satirize the upper middle 
Lyric Theatre on 42nd Street, class. “You’ve Got That Thing” 
They missed it, but for the rest of abounds with classic Cole Porter 
their lives they would swing to lines such as “You’ve got what
about a bunch of well-to-do Ameri­
cans cavorting around Paris and 
looking for love; it is just enough 
of a plot for director Ted Pappas
the distinctive music of Cole 
Porter’s later hits such as Any­
thing Goes and Kiss Me, Kate, 
that have made him a favorite of 
the musical theatre.
Porter’s score and Herbert 
Fields’s book for Fifty Million 
Frenchmen were thought lost 
until a copy appeared at the Tams- 
Witmark Music Library in New
Adam craved when he / With love 
for Eve was tortured / She only 
had an apple tree, / But you, you’ve 
got an orchard,” and is sung with 
comic sparkle by Michael 
Cummins (Guy Stroman) to Joyce 
Wheeler (Pamela Gold) who give 
delightful performances in their 
supporting roles.
Fifty Million Frenchmen is
© Ric Evans 
Peter Forbes, an American tour 
guide in Paris, sings to his group.
to squeeze in a few jokes about 
Americans’ perceptions of France, 
stage a few dance numbers, and 
keep us awake between songs — 
the real reason we came to the 
show.
Porter weaves a few slower 
songs around the core of lighter 
ones. The powerful “You Don’t 
Know Paree” at the end of Act I is 
one the few times that a singer 
(Don Goodspeed) is turned loose 
to let us see what he can do vo­
cally; not coincidentally, it is also 
the first time that the American 
romance with Paris shines 
through.
Unfortunately, the show fails , 
to evoke a Parisian atmosphere ! 
most of the time — despite a 
giant red Eiffel Tower framing ¦ 
the action. Perhaps part of the • 
problem was the floor of the set, a 
checkerboard pattern reminis­
cent of Ted Pappas’s production 
of Wings last year at the Public • 
which worked so well; but here, it | 
seems to mirror the rigid move- J 
ment and forced choreography.
The 1929 production was staged 
with a cast of over 70 performers, I 
but in this version, adapted by : 
Evans Haile (also musical direc- • 
tor for the Public’s production) 
and Tommy Krasker, there are 
only 15 performers who often 
appear to be holding something 
back.
Even though the Public’s stage 
is rather small, it seems to swal­
low them up. What the show 
needs to get off the ground is 
simply more energy, and it could 
come from more actors (if there 
were more money and space, of 
course). But the main attraction j 
isn’t the staging or the set; it’s ; 
Cole Porter’s brilliant music and 
his witty, clever lyrics that keep 
you tapping your foot from the 1 
jazzy overture to the final “Paree, 
What Did You Do to Me?”i
Fifty Million Frenchmen at the 1 
Pittsburgh Public Theater 
through December 18¡tickets $15- 
$34, student rush available. Call j 
321-9800 for more information.
(

---------------------------------------------------

Reconstruction of an Aazudian Temple will 
be on display through Tuesday at the Hewlett 
Gallery. The exhibit features relics, photographs, 
and other seemingly real artifacts of an imagi­
nary civilization conjured up in the mind of artist 
Beauvais Lyons. For more information, call 268- 
3877.
“Once in a Lifetime”, by Moss Hart & George S. 
Kaufman, will be playing at the Kresge Stage, 
College of Fine Arts, from November 19—Decem­
ber 10. Directed by Greogry Lehane. All show 
times and ticket inquiries can be made at the 
Drama Box Office at 268-2407.
Allegheny’s “Expressions” Art Exhibit will be 
displayed at the Sheraton Hotel at Station Square 
from November 25—30 in the hotel’s main lobby. 
The exhibit features 56 pieces of two- and three- 
dimensional artwork by persons with retardation 
and other developmental disabilities who are from
6 to 86 years of age.
“Jill Stutzman & Wendy Creel: Senior Show”
will be presented at the Forbes Gallery from 
November 29 through December 4. There will be 
a reception on December 2 from 7-9 pm. Gallery 
hours: Monday closed; Tuesday 12-6 pm; Wednes­
day 1:30-6 pm, 7-9 pm; Thursday-Sunday 12-6 
pm. For more information, call 268-2081.
An opening reception for the holiday toy and 
train exhibit will take place on Saturday from 5-
7 pm at the Westmoreland Museum of Art. Light 
refreshments and door prizes will be given out at 
the reception. The exhibit will continue through 
January 15. Admission is free. Museum hours: 
Tuesday-Saturday 10 am-5 pm and Sunday 1-5 
pm. For reservations, please call 837-1500.
“Prekop + Co.”, a three-dimensional exhibit by 
Martin Prekop, will be on display from November 
30—December 21 at the Hewlett Gallery. An 
opening reception will be held on December 2 from 
5-7 pm. For information, call 268-3618.
“Places in the Sun”, by Graper Pasiski and 
Pickering Zimbicki, wiil be showing at the Studio 
Gallery through December 31. Gallery hours are 
Tuesday-Saturday from 11 am-5 pm. Exhibit 
open on Friday, December 2 from 6-9 pm.
A Little Princess, presented by the Playhouse 
Jr. Children’s Theatre Company, will be playing 
at the Point Park College Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Avenue, from December 3-18 and January 7-22. 
Performances are held on Saturdays at 11 am and 
2:30 pm, Sundays at 2:30 pm. Tickets are $6, 
available at the Point Park College Playhouse 
Box Office, or by phone with VISA/MasterCard 
($1 service fee per total credit card order) by 
calling 621-4445.
The Night Before Christmas, presented by the 
Playhouse Dance Theatre, will by presented at 
the Point Park College Playhouse, 222 Craft Av­
enue, from December 8-18 on Thursday, Friday, 
and Saturday evenings at 8 pm and on Sundays at 
2 pm. Tickets are $8 and $10, on sale at the 
Playhouse Box Office, or by calling 621-4445 with 
VISA/MasterCard. Senior citizens and students 
receive a half-price discount. Group rates are also 
available.
University-wide call for artists!!! The Forbes 
Gallery will host the second annual Juried Photo- 
Film-Video Show from November 15-27. A jury 
committee will select the top three entries in each 
medium for awards. All work submitted will be 
exhibited. For more information, contact Forbes 
Gallery Co-Directors, Katie Welty (mw4q) and 
Kristen Uhler (auOO).
Opportunity for Artists! The Hewlett Gallery 
is accepting proposals for its 1995-96 season. 
Site-specific, collaborative, and multi-disciplin­
ary projects in science, visual, and performing 
arts enjoy a special welcome. For application 
forms and additional information, contact Petra 
Fallaux at the Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine 
Arts, #111, Carnegie Mellon University, Pitts­
burgh, PA 15213-3890 or call 268-3877. Deadline 
is December 9,1994.
MEETINGS
days at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning Room 
236. Call Dave Weiner at 431-4047 for more infor­
mation.
The Fencing Cluh meets on Sundays (at 2 pm), 
Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays at 6:30 pm in 
the Fencing Club Room (formerly Activity Room 
B) in the main gym. For more information, email 
cd2b, call 862-2899, or subscribe to 
cmu.student.fencing.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on Mondays and 
Thursday s at 9 pm in Activity Room A in the main 
gym. For more information, email cd2b, call 862- 
2151, or subscribe to assocs.KenpoJKarate.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet­
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in Doherty Hall 
Room 1212. For more information, call 268-2114.
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) 
meets every Wednesday at 5 pm at the Alumni 
House. New members are always welcome. For 
more information, email ks59 or subscribe to 
assocs.SARC.
Kappa chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, the na­
tional service fraternity, invites you to attend our 
meetings, which are held every Thursday at 8:30 
pm at MM103 (Breed Hall). See our bulletin 
board near the front of Doherty Hall for informa­
tion on upcoming activities.
Carnegie Mellon Vegetarians meets at 9 pm 
on Thursday nights in DH1217. For more infor­
mation, subscribe to assocs.cmu-vegetarians.
The CMU Shotokan Karate Club meets on 
Thursdays at 7:30 pm and Saturdays at 11:30 am 
in Thistle Hall in the gym. Advanced classes meet 
on Tuesdays in Activity Room Ain the gym at 6:30 
pm.
Improve your foreign language skills over 
lunch with the Modem Languages Department: 
Tuesdays: French Table at 2:30, Russian Table at 
12:30; Wednesdays: Spanish Table at 11:30; Thurs­
days: German Table at 11:30; Fridays: Japanese 
Table at noon. All groups meet in the Morewood 
Cafeteria with the exception of the French Table, 
which meets in Baker Hall 246A
MUSIC
Nutcracker, a family holiday musical play will 
be showing on the weekends from November 18- 
27 at the Apple Hill Playhouse. Shows are at 7 pm 
on Fridays; 11 am and 3 pm on Saturdays; and 2 
pm and 7 pm on Sundays. Call the theatre for 
reservations and further information, including 
group prices, at 468-5050.
An Irish dance will be held on Saturday at the 
Irish Centre of Pittsburgh, Forward Avenue, Squir­
rel Hill. The dance begins at 9 pm. Music will be 
provided by local favorites Guaranteed Irish. Thé 
admission cost of $10 includes beverages, set-ups, 
and Irish breads. Tickets may be purchased in 
advance or at the door. For information or to 
make reservations, please call 244-8054.
Organist C. John Thickey, from Calvin Presby­
terian Church, Ellwood City will be performing 
“Advent 1” on Sunday at the Heinz Chapel on
tiAppy
Pitt’s Oakland campus on Sunday at 9:30 pm. 
This performance is part of the Pittsburgh 
Compline Choir Series.
Paquito D’Rivera & the United Nation Or­
chestra will be performing at Manchester 
Craftsmen’s Guild from December 2-4. Grammy 
winning UN Orchestra combines exquisite en­
semble work, pulsating rhythms and driving en­
ergy to blend the colors of Brazilian, Afro-Cuban 
and Caribbean music within the jazz tapestry. 
For more information, call 322-0800.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society will 
present Anonymous 4, four female acappella sing­
ers, in concert, December 2 and 3, at 8 pm in Synod 
Hall, 125 N. Craig St., directly behind St. Paul’s 
Cathedral in Oakland. Tickets may be purchased 
at Classical Tracks on the Southside, the Pitt 
Student Union, Ticketmaster, or by phone at 682- 
7262. Ticket prices are $25, $19, $13, and $7 for 
full-time students.
Carnegie Mellon Wind Ensemble will be per­
forming at the Carnegie Music Hall on December 
3 at 2:30 pm. Admission is $5. CMU students, 
faculty, and staff receive a 20 percent discount. 
For more information, contact the Concert Line at 
268-2383.
Organist Steven M. Anisko, from Heinz Chapel, 
will be performing “Advent 2” on December 4 at 
the Heinz Chapel on Pitt’s Oakland campus on 
Sunday at 9:30 pm. This performance is part of 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir Series.
Holiday Concert (Orchestra and Choirs) will 
be playing at the Carnegie Music Hall on Decem­
ber 5 at 8 pm. Admission is $5. CMU students, 
faculty, and staff receive a 20 percent discount. 
For more information, contact the Concert Line at 
268-2383.
Learn to Dance, the Cajun two-step/waltz & 
Zydeco! Next class will run on December 5 and 19 
at Luciano’s, 1023 Forbes avenue, (across from 
Duquesne University). Dance instruction and 
dancing to recorded music starts at 8:30 pm. J am 
session starts at 9:30 pm. Bring your instru­
ments! Beginners are welcome. For more infor­
mation, call 242-4597.
CFA Holiday Concert, featuring the Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic Orchestra, Concert Choir, 
and Repertory Chorus, will be on December 9 at 
the CFA lobby at noon. The program features 
“Gloria In Excelsis Deo (Cantata 191)” by J.S. 
Bach and “Carols of the Season”. Refreshments 
will be served. If you have questions, please call 
268-2349.
The Carnegie’s United We Sing Concert will 
be performing on December 11 at 2 pm in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. A 57-year-old tradition, 
this concert will feature more than 200 singers, 
dancers, and musicians performing holiday tradi­
tions from around the world in their native lan­
guages and costumes. Tickets for Carnegie mem­
bers cost $6 for adults and $5 for children under 
18. Non-members pay $7 for adults and $6 for 
children. Groups of 10 or more receive a 10 
percent discount on advance ticket orders. Tick­
ets can be purchased in person during regular 
museum hours or by calling The Carnegie at 622- 
3131. MasterCard/VISA order are also accepted 
and will include a $1 handling fee.
TT)A|<IkSÇIVJjv!Ç!!!
NOTICES
Jean-CIaude Van Damme’s Sudden Death is
having a colossal car, television, and VCR give­
away on November 21 and 22 at the Civic Arena 
at 6 pm- 2 am. Penguin player autographs, movie 
stunts, free food, and comedians are all part of 
this event.
The International Poetry Forum presents 
Samuel Hazo’s play Solos on December 2,3,9, and 
10 at 8 pm at the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Appear­
ing will be six local actors: Bingo O’Malley, Hel­
ena Ruoti, Nancy Chesney, David L. Early, Dan 
Frezza, and Maggie Stewart. General admission 
tickets are $12. Student and senior citizen tickets 
are $8. Call the International Poetry Forum at 
621-9893.
Come party at the Metropol with the Jewish 
University Center on Monday, December 5 at 8:30 
pm. For only $5, you’ll get transportation, food, 
drink, dance, a d.j., and much more! Everyone is 
welcome. Call 621-8875, or e-mail rsbj for details.
Portuguese poets Pedro Tamen and Nuno 
Judich will recite poems in Portuguese on De­
cember 7 at 8 pm at the Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
General admission is $12. Student and senior 
citizen admission is $8. Group discounts are 
available. For more information, call the Interna­
tional Poetry Forum at 621-9893.
The Oakland Review is accepting submissions 
for its Fall 1994/Spring 1995 issue. Fiction, po­
etry, and artwork can be sent do the Editors; to 
Box 6168; 4902 Forbes Ave.; Pittsburgh, PA15217. 
Include a cover letter with your name and the 
titles of the works submitted. Please do not put 
your name on the works themselves. The dead­
line for submissions is December 15, 1994. For 
further information, contact Eugene Kuo (681- 
5679 or ekli) or Sara Barton (862-2812 or sb65).
Volunteer!!! The Office of International Educa­
tion and the Global Nomads organization are 
coordinating a cultural exchange between Ameri­
cans and international or transnational students 
and scholars. Volunteers are needed for Holiday 
Homestay, a program where Americans invite 
international students and scholars to their homes 
for a meal or overnight stay during Thanksgiving 
or Winter Recess. If you can volunteer your time 
and home to share your culture with others, 
contact the Office of International Education at 
268-3520 or email fsadv@andrew.cmu.edu.
FILMS
Kiss Me Deadly will be playing at Doherty Hall 
2210 next Thursday at 6,8,10 pm, and midnight.
Threesome will play next Friday in Doherty Hall 
2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Mask will be shown next Saturday at 6,8,10 
pm, and midnight in Doherty Hall 2210.
Mr. Sardonicus is playing next Sunday in 
Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a non-de- 
nominational student study group, provides a 
weekly forum for inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are held Tues-
Military Man -
I’m closer than you know. I’d watch out for 
my rear if I were you.
Questioner
Earth to Rebecca!!! Does my coz have to 
wake you up?
RETURN OF THE MUTHAFUKAS 
-SB
We have no life, right guys?
Do you know WHY Leslie?
No, why?!
Look, it has pictures of Tonya Harding’s 
wedding!!!
CMU ROX
n.,
you’re fired 
-1.
ox ir ©pm
eiee of ilie Peojpi
“Lynn-1 had an omlette with smoked salmon, 
myi myi, shrimp, and halibut.
Kissy and Heater - We’ll just have the who- 
who chicken...
“Love Butt,
Thanks for our new light! We would die 
without it. We love you.
- Orville, Wilbur, and their mom”
Devesh stumbles across the room. Shiva 
looks. Two guys enter the room. “Hi. How 
are you?”
Wild and Crazy Guy- 
I still don’t know why 
you put up with me. I 
owe you SO much. I love 
you babe.
— Swinging American Chick
There once was an AEPi frat 
Whose pin we took in seconds flat 
We don’t care to discuss 
Why they don’t think it’s us 
‘Cause it’s Zeta’s pin now and that's that.
E:
Sure.
If you say so!
One month and four days and I love you even
“Melrose Place has been unexpectedly can­
celled this week because Ken and Matt have 
blown up the kitchen. Stay tuned for more 
details.”
Jizz: “Who puked in my bed?”
So you wanna meet my roomie? Get out the 
switchblade and start dicing, huh huh!
Jon, so what time are you going home today?
Jennifer,
We’re going to see each other in a week. 
You’re the only yellow rose for me.
I heard that’s where all the girls were and it 
made me want to come
Brockett, Laura, and Davey - 
cool dance! Yip, Yip.
Zeppelin Quote of the Week:
“Now I’m singing all my songs to the girl 
who won my heart. She is only three years 
old and it’s a real fine way to start.”
Submit Calendar and Vox Populi 
announcements! Announcements should 
be 20 words or less and are due Thursday 
at 5 pm. Drop them off at the Tartan office 
In the Student Center or email to Jcbx.
Graphic by Gabrien Symons
