CONCERT TO BE HELD IN GYMNASIUM
Mosque Ruling Causes 
Relocation of Byrd Concert
February 6, 1973 Volume 73 Number 17
“Super Soldier’ Speaks 
On War Atrocitiesby Joan McGuskey
Lt. Colonel Anthony B. Herbert was a 
“super soldier”; the most decorated G.I. of 
the Korean War. He’d worked his way up 
from buck-private, was due for another 
promotion. Then he blew it. One fine day 
Herbert decided he’d had enough; by 
bringing charges against his commanding 
officers for atrocity cover-ups in Vietnam, 
Herbert put his career, his future in 
jeopardy. That was in 1971. Since then he 
has been subsequently relieved of duty, 
given a disastrous efficiency rating and 
ultimately forced to resign from active 
duty due to harassment and humiliation. 
Today, Colonel Herbert is a PhD. candidate 
in psychology at the University of Pitts­
burgh, and author of the recently pub­
lished “Soldier” (Holt, Rhinehart and 
Winston, Jan. 1973). He is traveling 
throughout the country discussing his
book, and on Monday evening, January 
29th, WYDD Radio and the University of 
Pittsburgh Student Government presented 
Colonel Herbert in a lecture-discussion 
focused on the story of his actions, and 
their results.
The David Lawrence Hall was packed 
when Anthony Herbert began his lecture. 
He looks like a G.I., tall, muscular, short- 
back and sides. It was easy to believe he’d 
been in the service for 24 years, yet he did 
not speak like the typical G.I. Immediate­
ly, the audience seemed to sense the 
sincerity of the man, and their expecta­
tions were fulfilled. Herbert announced 
that though he had originally planned on 
discussing military justice, he’s decided to 
discuss instead our “brave new world”. The 
world we live in, how it got that way, how 
it most probably will end up.
“Where are we going,” asked Colonel
continued on page 5
Engineer Supply Down; 
Demand on Sharp Increase
by Debi Hildebrand
“In a few years, there will be a serious 
shortage of engineers”, reports Dennis J. 
Ryan, Director Bureau of Placements. 
Employment will be unusually high. The 
U.S. Labor Department estimates that at 
least 48,000 new engineering graduates will 
be needed each year for the next decade 
but that only about 43,000 bachelor’s 
degrees in engineering were earned in 1971 
and 1972. Because of smaller enrollment, 
the number of graduates are decreasing and 
the gap between supply and demand is 
continuing to grow.
The ntimber of jobless engineers grew in 
the sixties as the nation’s economy fell, but 
now with a recovering economy, it is pro­
bable that any surplus of engineers will 
vanish as suddenly as it materialized. Com­
panies are hiring more than ever before in 
order to expand their facilities and push 
designs of new products. Growing environ­
mental concerns also create a greater need 
for engineers. Changes in demand will be 
reflected in the number of offers each 
graduate will have to choose from as well 
as in pay increases. Salaries for engineers
with bachelors degrees average $905 per 
month-a $21 per month increase from last 
year.
According to Ryan, the increase in 
employment of engineers became evident 
at CMU over a year ago with an increase in 
job opportunities for alumni. Employers 
first take experienced persons but as 
availability tightens, new graduates begin 
to be hired. From 1971 to 1972, the 
average number of monthly job openings 
rose from 300 to 600 jobs per month for 
experienced alumni and last spring, 
recruiting increased. The number of 
individuals scheduled to be interviewed by 
recruiters has risen 38 percent at CMU over 
the last year alone. Six percent of the pre­
vious Spring’s engineering graduates were 
not employed in December 1971, and in
1972, only one percent of these spring 
grads had not found jobs. Hiring of 
engineers in all degree levels is expected to 
go up another 26 percent in 1973. The 
“Engineering and Manpower Bulletin” 
reports that people who have the interest 
and aptitude “could not pick a better time 
than the present to undertake a career iii 
engineering.”
Bachelor Degrees Granted
Fraternal Merge Results 
In Creation of UFO
by Steven Correll
“1 know I hated fraternities when I 
came here as a freshman .. . you can’t 
imagine how I hated fraternities. Back in 
high school 1 had formed the typical
stereotype,” says John Sisson of SAE.
Sisson is now the first president of the 
Unified Fraternal Organization, formed on 
January 29 by the merger of the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents with the Panhellenic 
Council. He suggests that the merger, 
among the first of its kind in the nation
(the University of Massachusetts has a
similar union), will strengthen all eleven 
fraternities and that the five sororities will, 
in particular, benefit from closer ties with 
the men and less identification with
women’s dorms.
Other newly elected officers of UFO are 
Carol Zacher (DG), executive vice presi­
dent and president of Panhellenic; Stan
Edelstein (TDP), administrative vice 
president and president of CFP; Pam 
Bomba (DG), secretary; and Cecilia Friskie 
(KAT), treasurer.
A number of projects immediately con­
front the new organization. Negotiations 
took place yesterday with the university 
housing office on new contracts that would 
lease the houses to the fraternities, re­
placing past procedure of renting rooms 
directly to individual frat members. A UFO 
court will hear the Beta Sigma Rho case. 
UFO will plan a simultaneous fratemity- 
sorority rush. (Sisson could not predict 
whether “wet” rush will continue.) And 
the annual Greek Sing and Greek Swing 
will take place on March 9 and 10.
Asked about UFO plans concerning 
Delta Upsilon, currently a nonvoting 
member, Sisson answered, “It’s nebulous 
to say what their status will be by the end 
continued on page 7
Mr. Robert McCurdy, Director of Student Activities, making arrange­
ments for the Byrd Concert which will be held on March 3. Because 
of complications with the Syria Mosque, the concert will be held in 
the C—MU gym with two preformances planed. Photo by Frank Stein
---------------------------------—---------------------------------------------------------:---------------1
by Debbie Siegel
Due to a new ruling from the Syria 
Mosque, the Byrds concert will be held as 
an experiment in the CMU gym, on March 
3rd, sponsored by the Activities Board. 
The policy determined by the Board of the 
Syria Mosque prohibits any educational 
institution from advertising off the 
campuses of the various colleges in the 
area. Representatives from the Syria 
Mosque have explained the reasons for this 
measure; “Colleges should be concerned 
with education and leave entertainment up 
to people who do it for a living.” 
Promoters in the city feel that the colleges 
are offering unfair competition as they 
charge lower prices for tickets to concerts.
The Activities Board is facing a dilemma 
of holding the concert at a risk in the Syria 
Mosque with no outside advertising or 
holding it on a campus facility. If money is 
lost on this concert there will be nothing to 
fall back on and use for spring carnival on 
April 13th. At present research is being 
done towards the possibility of a folk 
festival on that date which could be held in 
the gym if the Byrds concert runs 
smoothly. At the Syria Mosque tickets
were to cost $3.50 for CMU students and 
$5.00 for anyone else. This would mean 
selling 1200 tickets to students and 1500 
in the high price range, which would be 
extremely difficult with no campus adver­
tising. If prices had to be raised the school 
would be offering no special service.
By holding the concert in the gym, 
circumstances may slightly change. Tickets 
will remain at $3.50 for students and be 
lowered to $4.50 for any one else. There 
will be one show at 7:00 and another at 
10:00 p.m. The bleachers seat 1500 people 
and arrangements will be made to rent 
1,000 chairs for the floor, totaling a seating 
capacity of 2,500 people at every show. To 
guarantee the best possible sound system 
the Activities Board is working with a 
sound company of New York City. One 
hundred amps of power will be transported 
in and a plastic covering for the floor will 
be laid. The Byrds are costing $7500 and 
although the contracts are only in the 
process of being signed, it would be rather 
difficult to cancel them as they were 
reserved for this commitment.
Legally, the Syria Mosque is allowed to 
place whatever restriction^ th*y want on 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973
editors note
C-MU and the energy crisis.
Last week CBS ran a series of special reports on their nightly news 
show concerning the energy crisis. They reported that the present squeeze 
was due to a complex mixture of different factors centering on corporate 
profit-making interests and recent environmental concern.
Last Monday, C-MU appeared before the pollution board to ask for a 
temporary variance on air pollution standards until the University can find 
an alternate method of heating its buildings.
The energy crisis is a big issue right now. The CBS report suggested 
that a National Energy Council similar to the National Security Council 
should be established. They mentioned that plans are being discussed for 
rationing of gasoline on a national level.
The immediate problem in all this for us at C-MU deals directly with 
our own pocketbooks. To comply with the pollution guidelines now 
would cost the university $200,000 for low sulfur coal. To convert to oil 
heat would cost $400,000 with no guarantee that oil will always be 
available.
What is ironic is that this puts the university in the same position as 
all the corporate interests we’ve grown to dislike and distrust. The 
university isn’t really polluting the air that much, says the 
administration—besides, we can't afford to change now. The students, like 
stockholders, must face the prospect of a profit loss; or in other words, a 
tuition increase. And the administration must again face the problem of 
how high the tuition can go before it drives away more money than it 
brings in.
This is doubly ironic when you consider that a lot of C-MU’s money 
is connected with a corporation called Gulf OH. According to the CBS 
investigation, it is companies like Gulf that are creating much of the 
problem because they aren’ras interested in developing new ways of 
producing energy as in making a profit from the old ways. Like the 
student-stockholder, they don’t want to lose money.
The immediate solution that President Cyert would like to see is that 
C-MU get out of the heating business altogether. He would like to see us 
tie up with the privately owned Belle field boiler system underneath 
Mellon Institute. We should concentrate on those things we do best— 
where we have a "comparative advantage”—and heating isn’t one of them. 
Let the other guy worry about pollution.
Of course, if this idea doesn’t work out, we’re in a bind again. Or 
suppose it works out, but the Bellefield plant goes out of business because 
pollution standards are too hard to comply with. Suppose the prices they 
must charge the university in order to comply with standards forces a 
severe tuition increase.
Imagine a time when a handfull of students meet for a class in a cold 
corner of Science Hall. They huddle around a fire made from scraps of the 
Fine Arts building, which has been torn down for use as burnable fuel. 
Imagine the day this fuel runs out and the teacher and students meet 
together in the cold, cold room and just huddle. Their teeth chatter. Their 
knees chatter. E very body chatters.
Look out everyone, the energy crisis has arrived.
Stephen Saunders
Editor in Chief ... . Stephen Saunders
Business Manager...............Alice Bright
Special Editors.........................Mina Gerall
Jeff Ganek
Special Consultant . . .Stephen Jurman
News Editor............................Gary Singer
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans 
News and Features Staff . Gary Bronheim 
Craig Collins, Steven Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Du la 
Laurel Felix, Marc Field 
Anne Friedman, Greg Fulton 
Mike Hill, Chris Infante 
Thomas Lang, Joan McCluskey 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor...........................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Uollins 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott. Ric Werme
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula.Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor ...................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany
D.R. Sullivan
Political Cartoonist . . . . Jim Margulies
Layout..................................Erica Gees
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ...........................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557
SAISON
BA N K.
btAR6Ui.il*
AND LET US BE PROUD OF THOSE V\H0 SACRIFICED, GAVE TH-ElR LI MBS, SO THAT 
THE PEOPLE OF SOUTH VIETNAM MIGHT LIVE IN FREEDOM."
Letters:
Editor:
As a former recipient of financial aid (I 
was cut off when the school found about 
my Swiss bank account) I was very in­
terested in the article of January 30 con­
cerning financial aid. The seemingly 
paradoxical headlines of “Financial Aid 
Slashed” and “Effects on Students 
Reported to Be Minimal” probably can be 
explained with the all encompassing policy, 
“student as customer”. I fear that this 
cutting of aid, in addition to the other 
great facets of the “customer” policy, will 
grind CMU into oblivion. Yet, things are 
rough all over, aren’t they?
I hope that that no prospective fresh­
men will be sucked into this fair institution 
with the lure of financial aid like I was. As 
I look back at all the fun and games that 
the university has provided me with, 
Cornell never looked better.
Roger W. Peck
(Ed. note: The headline read “Financial 
Aid Budget Slashed”. Under the circum­
stances, I don’t blame you for being 
skeptical, but if what we’ve been told is 
true, the actual aid the student receives 
from all sources should not drastically 
change. The university may be wrong-they 
have been be fore-and in that case the 
students are going to get screwed. But if 
you read the end of the article in question, 
you will find President Cyert saying 
specifically (for what it’s worth) that the
kind of thing that has happened to you 
“has got to stop. ”
Also, I’m not sure I see the connection 
to “Studentas Customer”.)
Editor:
Both my husband, Louis Schwartz, and 
I wish to join in extending to the Univer­
sity our heartfelt gratitude for the magnifi­
cent gesture which was made by no fewer 
than seven members of Alpha Tau Omega, 
who donated blood in my husband’s name 
at a time of great need. The spirit of good 
fellowship appears to exist at Carnegie- 
Mellon. The ideals of the University were 
certainly exemplified at a time when we 
were lucky enough to be the beneficiaries.
Mr. and Mrs. Louis Schwartz
Editor:
We were amused to read Steven 
Rubinstein’s letter to the TARTAN 
concerning the controversial issue of the 
bust on Beta Sigma Rho. We just can’t 
understand why those law-abiding, under­
age, beer drinking frat jocks can’t just get 
stoned and start acting like the rest of us 
pot-smoking hippies.
Michael Baurer 
Jeff Gerstein
RELEVENT ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. TARTAN DEADLINES are now Thursday at noon for all 
stories, announcements and advertisements.
2. THERE WILL BE a meeting of fhe editorial board on 
Thursday, February 8 at 4:30 PM in room 50 Skibo.
3. THERE WILL BE a TARTAN staff party on Saturday, 
February / 7. Contact your editor for details.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 6, 1973—Page 3THE FIRST YEAR EXPERIENCE
Editor’s Note: During the past few weeks the TARTAN has been con­
ducting a poll on the freshman’s conclusions of his or her first year at 
Camegie-Mellon University. The results of this survey appears below, 
listed by school. We would like to thank all the participants and especially 
Steve Correll, Bruce Lindsay, and Erica Gees for their help in compiling 
this survey. Besides providing interesting reading, we hope this poll will 
have the departments and administrators take heed of what their students 
conclude, and act upon this opinion.
1. MY COURSES ARE GENERALLY:
“They totally misled me as to the number of requirements, etc. ”
“I was told H&SS was new and changing, but it is really unorganized and narrow ” 
“I received no impression from the Admission Office. I already knew the school'
6. WHEN I APPLIED TO C-MU I WAS---------------INFORMED ABOUT THE DIFFERENT
COLLEGES TO WHICH I APPLIED:
H&SS
CFA
MIS
CIT
very poor 1 
0 
0 
0 
0
2. MY INSTRUCTORS ARE GENERALLY:
very poor 12 3
H&SS 1 1 7
CFA 0 2 4
MIS 1 2 2
CIT 0 16
3. THE SOCIAL (NON-ACADEMIC) ATMOSPHERE IS:
poor
H&SS
CFA
MIS
CIT
5 very good 
2 
3 
0 
0
5 very good 
1 
1 
0 
0
5 very good 
1 
1 
1 
1
4. THE POSSIBILITY OF MY DROPPING OUT ATTHE END OF THIS SEMESTER IS:
H&SS
CFA
MIS
CIT
none at all 1 
7
6 
3 
5
5 definite
4
5 
0 
0
5. MY IMPRESSION OF C-MU AS RECEIVED FROM ADMISSION OFFICE INFORMA­
TION IS CORELABLE TO MY EXPERIENCE HFRE: 
not at all 1 2 3 4
H&SS 4 7 5 2
CFA 15 5 2
MIS 0 3 2 3
CIT 2 3 5 2
5 completely 
0 
0 
1 
0
not at all123 4 5 very well
H&SS282 5 1
CFA135 2 3
MIS003 4 1
CIT144 2 1
7. IN TERMS OF ACHIEVING MY EDUCATIONAL GOALS, C-MU WILL BE:
of no assistance23 4 5 perfect
H&SS228 6 1
CFA321 6 2
MIS021 4 2
CIT011 6 3
8. IN TERMS OF ACADEMIC PRESSURE. I FEEL THAT C-MU IS:
easy123 4 5 overburdening
H&SS227 7 1
CFA001 6 7
MIS004 3 1
CIT000 7 5
9. (this question dealt with the participants ma|or - used to classify as to school)
10. SINCE SEPTEMBER I AM---------------OF MY CAREER CHOICE.
less sure123 4 5 more sure
H&SS427 5 2
CFA001 6 7
MIS004 3 1
CIT000 7 5
11. 1 HAVE- MY ORIGINAL EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES.
CHANGED MAINTAINED
H&SS513
CFA212
MIS09
CIT47
12. 1 FEEL 1 HAVE ENOUGH ACADEMIC FREEDOM TO INVESTIGATE MY 1
AND ABILITIES:
none123 4 5 very sufficient
H&SS283 3 3
CFA534 1 1
MIS023 4 0
CIT442 1 1
COMMENTARY:
by Gary Bronheim
America has a college in every con­
ceivable location, of every size, and at all 
costs. For whatever reason, you chose 
CMU as the place to get your education 
and diploma. You came for Drama, 
Psychology, Math, English, Design, En­
gineering, Physics or any of the other 
numerous majors offered here. (With the 
vast selection of colleges to choose from, 
what made you pick CMU? Reputation was 
the main reason students gave for coming 
here.) We are world famous, especially for 
engineering and dnma. After a semester 
here, many students were disillusioned 
with that great reputation. Or, if you knew 
of the reputation of CMU as a University, 
but were unsui? of the H&SS program, you 
were probably told that this facet of the 
institution was “new, innovative, changing, 
and exciting”. That was the message one 
psychology major received. But, whether 
you are about to transfer, or are ready to 
face four years here, for the immediate 
present, you are at Carnegie-Mellon 
University reading the TARTAN. And how 
do your peers feel about being here, and 
about their first semester experience?
Based on my numerous discussions with 
freshmen, and based on the surprisingly 
decent turnout on the opinion polls (could 
we be near the end of the Age of Apathy?) 
we come to some interesting conclusions.
It should be stated that due to a fear of
condemnation from their departments, 
many students have asked to have their 
names withheld. Besides my name I have 
seen fit to leave out all names of co­
operative parties. (To those who helped-- 
Thanks-To those who expected to see
their name in print--my apologies.)
Anyway, most students were able to 
find a ray of hope to counteract whatever 
negative experiences that they found in the 
first semester.
More specifically, from the viewpoint of 
a transferring architect, a lot was learned, 
but not without doing a lot of work. From 
the Architecture department, his peers 
agreed that the work was overbearing;
several other architects expressed a desire 
to transfer. With little time to sleep or
truly relax, there are many hours spent
trying to meet the perfectionist standards 
of the department. It is difficult to find a 
really content architect, (correct me if I’m 
wrong). The overworked feeling exists 
throughout the College of Fine Arts. With 
not much room for experimentation in the 
rigid structure, several students were ready 
to transfer. (From experience learned in 
my freshman year, I maintain that talk 
about transferring is usually just talk.) 
Each division of CFA is very specialized, 
but according to one dramat, “that’s what
I want, if I wanted something other than 
Drama I would have gone to another 
school.” The point was made that the 
Drama department only offers two 
educational years. More than that was con­
sidered unnecessary.
P&S opinion went from good teaching
to insutficient supervision. More instruc­
tion was requested, instead of simply being 
given your teacher’s philosophies.
Design too was overworked and under- 
satisfied. To transfer or not to transfer, 
that is the question!
Do not take this article wrong, there are 
people who are very happy with their 
departments, even if other aspects of CMU 
don’t suit their liking. I personally love the 
school--the good with the bad.
Meanwhile on the more technical side of 
CMU, contentment was more evident. One 
Civ. E. found CIT to be “a helluvan 
engineering school once you’ve made up 
your mind”. As compared to CFA there is 
a smaller desire to transfer with a greater 
possibility of doing things outside of the 
department. CIT is a good place to get a 
proper academic education.
Last of the major areas here is the 
college of Humanities and Social Sciences. 
Here the work is moderate and the 
structure is loose in comparison with the 
other schools. The college is .said to be in 
need of cultivation, the potential exists but 
it must be realized. “The school is not a 
whole, it is four separate schools. H&SS is 
an attachment to that school ...” At least 
students in H&SS have the time to get an 
education from places outside of their 
classes--if they bother to take advantage of 
the opportunity.
One complaint registered was that 
admissions gave them a false picture of the 
school, many did not realize the great 
separation between the different schools.
Socially or Non-Academically, CMU
students are again at both extremes. The 
cry came out for more clubs, or for some 
clubs period. “Clubs are as important as 
academics.” More lectures were requested 
during non-class hours, as well as more 
parties, and more things to do in general. 
“Pittsburgh offers nothing.” ETC.ETC. At 
this point in my article on Freshman 
opinion, I slyly insert the opinion of an 
ex-freshman who sides with the people 
who feel there are “an awful lot of things 
to do.” That ex-freshman being ME. For 
those of you who have yet to achieve social 
happiness, my recommendation for your 
first step is find social awareness. The 
students of CMU have taken the trouble to 
put together this newspaper to keep you 
informed of the events that will be 
happening on YOUR campus. We even 
review the movies that are playing in the 
surrounding theaters. And if you only read 
through the TARTAN quickly, you can 
always find out forthcoming events by 
looking at the school’s weekly calendar. 
You say you can’t read, or that your room 
mate threw out your copy before you read 
it, WRCT (bet a lot of you didn’t even 
know we have our own radio station 900 
on your AM dial, and soon going FM.) will 
tell you what’s up. You want clubs-or 
organizations to suit your interests-what 
about the ski club, student government, 
WRCT, the TARTAN, exploreres club, 
sailing club, W3NKI, Two Hands, Scotch 
and Soda, intercollegiate sports of all sorts, 
and more on the 1M level, cheerleading, 
fraternities, sororities, PIRG. Activities
continued on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973
Commentary
Campus Communication
In some circles the definition of the now over used term "generation 
gap” has been attributed to the lack of communication between the 
various members of the various age groups, or in less technical terms: Old 
i/5. Young. At C —MU we suffer from a communication problem which / 
guess could be called the “academic gap” between students and faculty, 
staff, and administrators. Our problem on this campus does not require 
the consultation of a pyschologist, our problem is strictly mechanical.
The infamous Division of Operations, which has been blamed for 
such things as the breaking of the Constitutional law against illegal 
harboring of troops (Navy Reserve Dinner), is now considering hooking 
the dorms, fraternities, and / would like to add prominent academic 
buildings such as the libraries, to the school's telephone extension system. 
This action would considerably lessen at least a few of the troubles of the 
students. It would also lessen the burden of the poor operators who have 
to connect students to extensions every time a call is required. It is with 
great pleasure, although it might sound like / am conducting an award 
ceremony, that / can finally support the Division of Operations. This 
latest move, if acted on, would truly be in the interestof the “customer” 
and the University.
Gary Singer 
News Editor
Activities Fee 
Increases Proposed
WYDD: New Radio
by Thomas Lang
Student Senate has proposed that the 
Student Activities Fee be increased from 
$10 per semester to $12.50 per semester 
for the 1973-74 school year. The reasons 
underlying this motion, which was 
presented by Tanya Allmond, are inflation 
and the increasing demands for better stu­
dent activities. This proposal, which also 
includes the separation of the mandatory 
fee on the student bill, will only become 
effective if the tuition remains at $1240
per semester, and President Cyert can fore­
see no tuition increase.
This issue will be presented to the 
students in a referendum in the spring, 
most likely during student elections.
Other business at the Student Senate 
meeting included the reminder that student 
elections will be held March 15-16, the 
postponement of the State of the Univer­
sity Report, to be given by Mike Garl, to 
the February 6th meeting and other 
bureaucratic odds and ends.
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
We’re new ond we're the bigestl Thousands of 
topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our 
subjects include not only English, but Anthro­
pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eco­
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, 
Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology, 
Religion, Science, Sociology and Urbon Prob­
lems. Send S2 for your catalog of topics avail­
able.
REGAL NOTES 
3160 “O’* Street. N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 20007 
Telephone: 202-333-0201
by Tom Lee
For the last few years, the rot-in-stereo 
sound of WDVE has been about the only 
station in the city which plays anything 
close to “rock” music. But the entrance of 
WYDP onto the dial has changed all that.
Operating at 104.7 on the FM dial in 
stereo, WYDD plays 24 hours a day of 
progressive music. “Progressive music”, 
states WYDD Program Director Dwight 
Douglas, “is the music our friends listen to 
at home. Why should a radio station play 
anything else.”
WYDD is playing more music, which 
means less commercials. “We’ve limited the 
amount of commercials to six minutes per 
hour” claims WYDD Director of Com- 
¦munity Affairs (and former WDVE DJ) 
Jessie. By way of contrast, KQV has 14 
minutes of commercials per hour, while 
WDVE has 8.
The DJ’s are doing all they can to bring 
good music to the listening audience. They 
include: Jay Davis (3 to 6 pm), Jessie (6 to 
10 pm), Dwight Douglas (10 pm to 1 am), 
and Bill “Brew” Bruin (1 to 6 am).
A very nice feature of the new format is 
the New/Old Sides show. Every night at
ARE PHONEY CREDIT CARD CALLS WORTH A CRIMINALRECORD? Plus a stiff fine...a jail sentence...
or both?
Not everyone seems to realize that charg­
ing phone calls to a fraudulent credit card 
number is against the law. And that the 
law sets heavy penalties for violators.
In this state, there’s a fine of up to $500 
—or one year in jail—or both. (In some 
states, fines range as high as $10,000, with 
jail sentences of up to 10 years.)
Modern electronic computer systems are 
making it increasingly easy to track down
offenders. And the Telephone Company 
will not tolerate fraudulent calling, no mat­
ter who the offender may be.
The penalties may seem harsh for some­
thing that may be done out of thoughtless­
ness. But the fact remains: The law does 
not look on phone fraud as a lark.
(§) Bell of Pennsylvania
midnight a new or old album is played in 
its entirety and uninterrupted. Some of the 
albums which have featured include: 
Europe ’72 (Gtateful Dead), the new 
Tommy (various artists), the Duane Allman 
Anthology (Duane Allman and others), 
Made in Japan ( a British import by Deep 
Purple), and Holland (Beach Boys).
WYDD is a very community oriented 
station. If there is something you hear that 
you like, or don’t like, let them know and 
they’ll try to change things. They have a 
feature called “Letter to the Editor” which 
gives the listeners a chance to have views 
read over the air. They are, by the way, 
one of the very few radio stations in the 
region which do this.
WYDD is still in the pangs of infancy, at 
least as far as the new format is concerned, 
so it may be some time before they have all 
of the bugs worked out. But it seems to be 
a step in the right direction.
Faculty Member 
Named 
To Insurance Post
A CMU faculty member has been named 
to the Citizen Advisory Committee of the 
Pennsylvania Insurance Department.
Dr. R. David Pittle, assistant professor 
of electrical engineering and public affairs, 
was named to the post this week by In­
surance Commissioner Herbert Denenberg.
The committee was formed by 
Commissioner Denenberg to provide the 
department with consumer views in 
decision-making concerning such things as 
health insurance, no-fault auto insurance 
and life insurane. It also serves as a liaison 
between citizens and the Insurance Depart­
ment.
“In the past, Commissioner Denenberg 
has acted in the consumers’ best interests,” 
Dr. Pittle said. “I hope that my efforts will 
increase his effectiveness in aiding Penn­
sylvania consumers.”
Dr. Pittle is president of the Alliance for 
Consumer Protection, a 3,000 member all­
volunteer group in the Pittsburgh area 
dedicated to educating and protecting con­
sumers from unfair trade practices.
He also serves on the citizen advisory 
committee of the National Association of 
Home Builders, and is currently developing 
a high-school level consumer education 
curriculum aimed at creating an awareness 
of the technical and safety-related aspects 
of consumer products. The project is being 
carried out under a $343,000 grant from 
the National Science Foundation.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 6, 1973—Page 5
Lt. Colonel Anthony B. Herbert, described by the Army as a 
"Super Soldier" spoke at Pitt, about the atrocities commited 
by the Uhited States during the Vietnam "conflict".
Photo by John Shettel
Merbert Speaks
continued from page 1
Herbert. “What are the reasons for where 
we are-in Vietnam now? Vietnam is the 
cause of nothing. It’s a symptom ... a 
symptom training policies ... a symptom 
of the “man in the grey-flannel suit” 
directorship that the war has had for a 
number of years.” Vietnam was, said 
Herbert, the first war people could watch 
in their own living rooms. Such a small 
area, covered so intensely by the media, 
could not help but cause repercussions 
among the public. Yet whether the 
reactions and views formed by such a 
barrage of coverage were warped or not is( 
) debateable. The army claims only 10 per 
cent of its men acknowledge war crimes. 
On closer examination, though, it was 
revealed that out of say 11,000 men in 
Vietnam, only 7-800 were even involved in 
direct combat - not even 10 per cent of the 
original number. Though many may have 
heard about what was going on, or ex­
perienced it themselves, no one said any- 
^ thing, and that won, in Herbert’s opinion, 
one massive disgrace for the U.S. Army.
Public awareness of the brutalities in 
Vietnam has been hampered considerably 
by massive efforts to reduce “bad pub­
licity” about the government and military 
service. When several million viewers saw a 
small child running down a road, being 
burnt alive by napalm, the response, 
3 Colonel Herbert says, was incredible. 
Letters, phone calls, all demanding what 
would be done to help her. Later that 
week, announcements came that she was 
receiving the best of medical care; that she 
would probably walk again. What we are 
apt to forget is there were 500,000 others 
just like her.
Soldiers seem to be growing completely
* callous towards humanity in general. The 
most awful acts are given “funny” names— 
perhaps just to make them bearable. In 
truth or consequences, two men are taken 
for a ride in a helicopter, the first one is 
asked a question. If he does not answer 
truthfully, he is pushed out of the 
helicopter. The second one is asked and 
they usually expect to get the truth, or at
* least a lie to save himself. Yet to many 
Vietnamese, the cause is more important 
than the individual. There was the “sewing 
party”. While their mother looked on, he 
saw children wired together through the 
heads, the wire looped, attached to a 
helicopter, and flown back and forth over 
an unoccupied pass. Why?- the woman 
wouldn’t answer our questions, said the
*¦ army. The helicopter flew back and forth 
with the loudspeaker blaring, “When the 
army asks a civilian questions, give a 
civilized answer.”
“I want more bodies,” declared General 
Westmoreland, after stating that these 
atrocities “were not army policy”. Yet, 
Herbert maintains they were army policy. 
He said that if at anytime Westmoreland 
r had declared dissatisfaction, the atrocities 
would have ceased. Yet he condoned it, so 
his subordinates, power and promotion 
hungry, followed suit. The results are 
known.
The American public is tired of the war, 
tired of killing. It wants to forget but, 
“ ... we can’t afford to,” says Herbert. 
“Instead of an Americanization of Viet-
* nam, we’re having a Vietnamization of 
America: The countries we tried to help 
sustain democracy-Thailand, Laos, 
Cambodia, South Korea, the Philipines- 
haveall toppled, but to the right. Our 
domino theory is working against us.” 
Colonel Herbert spoke of the ruined 
generals who now badly need a scapegoat 
for their ddefeats. He feels the blacks and
iv minority groups may suffer especially 
under this influence. With the new 
voluntary armv, the majority of soldier
will come from lower socio-economic levels 
if the armed forces is the only employment 
option open. “The army had a plan - 
“Project 100,000”-and with the stupidity 
nobody else could equal, recruited 220,000 
new recruits. Black enlistments went from
11 to 18 percent, yet Black fatalities have 
rated steadily at 22 percent. In a white 
man’s army, “they’re” the ones that are 
losing. Herbert spoke of the empathy the 
Blacks have for the Vietnamese, a non­
white racial group suffering under a world 
power. He said that not one Black officer 
had been accused of attrocities; that they 
had been the first to refuse to participate 
in the horrors now being publicized.
Who is guilty then? Who is to be 
blamed?Herbert named 18 generals, 7 of 
whom attended West Point. Among those 
listed was General Patton’s son; he sent out 
Christmas cards with photos of children 
being blown up. Needless to say these are 
not uneducated men merely professional 
soldiers looking out for their own careers. 
The army is as ruthless as Wall Street in 
weeding out those who can’t compete. 
Enlisted men take an oath of allegiance to 
duty, honor, country; professional soldiers 
are out to be generals.
How did Anthony Herbert fit into this 
picture?He started out as a private and 
worked his way up through the ranks to 
the post of Lt. Colonel. He was the most 
decorated G.I. in the Korean War. His 
battalian, the highest rated in Vietnam, was 
based on a system different from the 
others. Normally, a soldier gets three point 
rewards, leave, etc. for every body he 
brings in. Hence, the incredible “body 
counts”. In Herbert’s battalian, five points 
were awarded for every live prisoner 
brought in. Herbert worked within the 
system, but he tried to change the things 
he wasn’t satisfied with. His behavior was 
irreproachable. There was nothing they 
could get him on when he began making 
the accusations that have destroyed his 
career.
Military justice is not performing its 
function says Colonel Herbert. For a long 
time the United States was renowned as 
the only country that imposed on itself the 
same laws and restrictions that it placed on 
other countries at the Nuremburg trials. 
Their discipline and integrity were un­
questioned. Now, however, Herbert feels 
that the army should be permitted to 
provide only the prosecutor for those 
charged with military crimes. Otherwise, 
the service has complete control over what 
occurs, and what prices are paid for illegal 
actions. This power must be curbed, before 
the United States turns into the military 
stale Herbert is sure it could become.
The government has been instituting 
programs to train servicemen for duty as 
soldiers in the United States itself. Instead 
of hypothetical plans such as “Operation 
Berlin” or “Operation Shanghai”, they use 
“Operation Pittsburgh” or “Operation 
Trenton”. They are being taught to look 
on the citizens of the United States as 
potential enemies; and to react to activities 
with the same actions that they would in a 
war with a foreign power. Referred to as 
“military influence applied to local govern­
ment”, the results are Kent State, Jackson 
State-tragic, violent occurences that 
Herbert feels “will become part of a 
problem of violence which will become 
more pronounced and widespread if not 
curbed soon.”
Near the end of the lecture, a man in 
the audience stood up and announced that 
his daughter, Allison Krause, was one of 
the students killed at Kent State. The 
emotionally charged atmosphere was over­
whelming as Kraus warned the audience to 
fight the military, to back the Congressmen 
who have been fighting this for 20 years. 
He told of being bugged, bribed, followed, 
threatened. He said, “Believe Herbert! It’s 
true ^'Mt hs’s saying!” Encouraged by his
actions, Herbert told of attempts on his life 
while in the service. He told one story of 
how the government tried to bribe him.
“I got a call from Washington. I went 
down and was offered a position as an 
advisor to the military, the chairman of a 
committee of 5 colonels. I said no, that as 
a lieutenant colonel I would have no 
power, and that I was not due for
promotion for two more years. They said 
don’t worry. Nixon promoted the astro­
naut, he’ll promote you, too. I found out 
later they had already told my wife, and 
given the story to two newspapers. How­
ever, I said no. They were stunned—then 
my friend sat back, looked at me, and said, 
‘Well boy, in that case I’m going to destroy 
you’.”
NAVALRESEARCHLABORATORY
WASHINGTON, D.C.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
The Navy’s Corporate Laboratory—NRL—is 
engaged in research embracing practically all 
branches of physical and engineering science and 
covering the entire range from basic investigation 
of fundamental problems to applied and develop­
mental research.
The Laboratory has a continuing need for 
physicists, chemists, metallurgists, mathematicians, 
oceanographers, and engineers (electronic, elec­
trical and mechanical). Appointees, who must be 
U.S. citizens, receive the full benefits of the career 
Civil Service.
Candidates for bachelor’s, master’s and doc­
tor’s degrees in any of the above fields are 
invited to schedule interviews with NRL represen­
tatives who will be in theCarnegie-Mellon
University
PLACEMENT OFFICE ON
Wed., Feb. 14
Those who, for any reason, are unable to 
schedule interviews may write to The Civilian Per­
sonnel Office (Code 1818), Naval Research Lab­
oratory, Washington, D.C. 20390.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973
W
W
' STUDENT 
GOVERNMENTHgi
wan
wwwwww
ELECTIONS
w
Are Coming
Don’t Forget To Vote!!
ananananan
anan
an
SATURDAY, FEB. 17, 1973—8:00 P.M. SKIBO BALLROOM
Tickets are $1.00 with CMU I.D. and $1.50 without
FREE buttons, balloons and candy.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973-Page 7
Student-Defined Major: Not the easy way
by Christine Infante
When transferring is neither desirable or 
practical for the student with a clear idea 
of what he wants to do, what then?
Four years ago John R. Hayes, a pro­
fessor in Psychology, in conjunction with 
Dean Steinberg, conceived the idea of the 
Student-defined Major (SDM) to meet the 
needs of those students who have decided 
on more specialized fields than are 
available here. The SDM is an option that 
claims four faculty advisors, thirty students 
and operates without a budget. Dr. Hayes 
recalled that “some people just detested 
the idea of self-defined majors,” largely 
because they thought of it as an easy way 
out. Dr. Sochatoff, of the English Depart­
ment, says that this assumption was made 
by those “who are unaware of the 
actualities”.
The essential element for the SDM 
student is a goal that cannot be achieved 
through existing departments. Once this 
objective is established the SDM program 
enables him to break out of the restriction 
of any one set area. It is not, however, an 
anything goes alternative, rather it involves 
a great deal of preparation on the student’s 
part. Betty Jean Lloyd, the current advisor 
believes that “SDM is one of the hardest 
H&SS departments to get into because it
takes initiative and requires that the 
student set definite goals.”
Prospective students are required to sub­
mit a two-part proposal that includes a 
statement of purpose and a complete 
program of study. The student describes 
his objectives, explaining why his course of 
study cannot be fulfilled in more standard 
ways, and then explains the courses he has 
taken as well as those he intends to take to- 
satisfy his major. Most often, the SDM 
chooses a cross-section of courses, indepen­
dent studies and applied work off campus, 
all of which require that the student 
explore his field and make any necessary 
contacts. Finally, since the SDM is a part 
of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences the student is also expected to 
meet the core requirements for a B.A.
The proposal is then submitted to a 
subcommittee to determine if a clear focus 
has been established and to decide whether 
the suggested program will meet that goal. 
Proposals are rejected when they too 
closely resemble an existing major or lack 
depth and concentration, or when it is 
apparent that the student just wants to 
avoid certain subjects in his own major.
The fields of study chosen most often 
are pre-law and communications. The value 
of the pre-law option is questioned because 
in many instances law schools are not as
^illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllillllilllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllliiiililllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllll^ 
| STUDENTS INTERNATIONAL MEDITATION SOCIETY ¡
¡ PRESENTS
I AN INTRODUCTOR Y LECTURE ONE
1 Transcendental Meditation ¡
1 AS TA UGHT B Y MAHAR IS HI MAHESH YOGI
¡ WEDS. FEBRUARY 7th at 8:00 P.M. {
1 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo
* Spontaneously Develops fill creative intelligence
* Provides deep rest for increased energy in daily life 
*Unlofds life to a natural state of freedom
-ADMISSION FREE -
—. E 11.
^immimiimwiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiniHiiiiiiimiiiiiiminiiiiMimiiiiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiimiimimiiiiiitiiiiiiimiiiimiiiiiiiiitmiimiiiimiiiiiii
With All Yew Heart.The FTD LoveBundle.
You have a special 
someone somewhere^ 
whether it’s your mom' 
or your sweetheart, 
hoping you’ll remember’ 
her with flowers on 
Valentine’s Day. 
Send her the FTD® 
LoveBundle. A 
bright and beautiful 
bouquet of fresh 
flowers in a special 
container. All 
designed with 
PFebruary 14th 
in mind.
Usually available ' 
for less than 
h*I25°
Find out how easy it is to send the right flowers the FTD 
way. Drop in for your FREE Selection Guide. Wherever 
you see the famous FTD symbol. (Or write FTD, 900 
West Lafayette, Detroit, Michigan, 48226.) Most FTD 
Florists accept major credit cards.
•As an independent businessman, each FTD Member Florist sets his own 
prices.® 1973 Florists' Transworld Delivery Association.
impressed with a B.A. in S.D.M. as in 
economics or political science.
With the help of Tom Kerr a more 
balanced program for pre-law majors has 
been formed which requires that a certain 
number of units be fulfilled in specific 
areas and that the student serve with an 
established lawyer or legal firm for one 
semester. The communications major varies 
depending upon which phase of the field is 
being pursued and is frequently done in 
conjunction with a television or radio 
station.
One problem, according to Dr. Schaefer 
of the History Department, arises from the 
variety of interests of the student-defined 
majors. The chairman of S.D.M. must be 
available to discuss with and direct a 
student in a field with which he may not 
be familiar. In this situation, the student is 
saddled with the responsibility of making
his own contacts in his area of study. 
Another problem is that the mechanics of 
operating the program, i.e. administrative 
red tape, cuts out additional hours that 
could be spent with the student.
The curious thing about the S.D.M. 
program to Dr. Hay^s is “that some stu­
dents see vagueness and leap on it as a way 
not to do much, while others leap on it to 
do a lot.” Of course, it’s not a peculiarity 
of the S.D.M., it is undoubtedly common 
in all departments. Miss Lloyd expressed 
continual pleasure in the S.D.M. students’ 
sense and desire for responsibility.
Like other departments, the S.D.M. has
its own disadvantages. Some students have 
in the past become disillusioned and were 
able to work within an established major. 
Others find a lack of sympathy from 
graduate and professional levels towards 
S.D.M. Dr. Sochatoff mentioned, for 
example, that some universities consider it 
a “dilettante kind of program, which just 
isn’t true.”
So, according to those involved with the 
program, the student-defined major gives 
the student who has established goals an 
opportunity to explore the possibilities in 
realizing them. Moreover, they add, it 
forces the student to distinguish between 
what he wants and what he needs.________
Frats Merge
continued from page i
of the semester.” Noting that outside inter­
ference in the matter could be unwelcome, 
he nevertheless said, “We want them to 
stay.”
Are the Greeks dying at C-MU? 
“Around the nation there’s a definite up­
swing among Greeks,” says Sisson, “and 
we’re looking forward to a couple of good 
years. Our major problem at the 
fraternities is the stereotype students have. 
We aren’t just a bunch of beer-drinking 
jocks... a kind of unity exists here, and it 
really seems to last. The house provides a 
place you can come back to in a few years 
from now-and fraternity people really do 
come back.”
"ÿtevtâ
I couldn't get King Kong to give me 
a whirl. But when I turned on to 
Akadama Plum (the lip-smacking grape 
wine with the natural plum flavor) all 
the College Men started turning on to 
me. Thank you. Akadama Plum, for 
turning the prom glom into the bee's
Akadama Plum
The toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory internafional. Los Angeles. Calif
PLUM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8- -THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973
Announcements:
Room 11 in Skibo (new Student organi­
zation suite) is available for small meetings. 
The room seats about 16 people. Calendars 
are on the door and meetings may be 
scheduled through April. The facilities are 
there-please use them!
The new student activities suite (in Skibo)
has a general campus phone, ext. 155-may 
be used to reach any of the organizations 
there.
Time to begin considering .. . petitons for
Student Government President, Senate 
seats, director Activities Board, director 
Academic Affairs board-all available soon 
at Skibo Information Desk.
The Department of Student Activities is
sponsoring a poster competition in con­
junction with the appearance of the noted 
classical guitarist Carlos Barbosa-Lima with 
the CMU Chamber Orchestra at Carnegie 
Music Hall on March 17, 1973. If you are 
interested, you will find all pertinent data 
below.
Poster size: 14” x 22"
Color: one color 
Stock: See Mr. Ichiyama 
Deadline: Submitted to Design Dept.
Office by Feb. 19
Awards: A maximum of three cash awards 
($75, $50 & $25) will be given depending 
on the number of entries and quality of 
work. Announcement will be made -by 
February 23.
Exhibit: If there are enough entries, an 
exhibit is planned
Winning Entry: Will be printed by
Associates Lithograph and 150 will be used 
for promotion of the concert.
Poster Information: Carlos Barbosa-Lima 
(guitarist) in concert with the Carnegie- 
Mellon Chamber Orchestra; Saturday, 
March 17; 8:30 p.m., Carnegie Music Hall; 
$2.50; Tickets: Skibo, Pitt Student Union
& Kaufmann's
Further Information: See Mr. McCurdy in
Skibo 103 or Mr. Ichiyama
Eligibility: Any CMU student or faculty
There will be a general meeting of the AB
Lecture Committee on Thursday Feb. 8th 
at 4:30 in Room 13 Skibo.
The University of Pittsburgh's Department
of Speech and Theatre Arts and the 
University Center for International Studies 
are sponsoring a four-week Elizabethan 
theatre workshop, July 14 to August 11,
1973, at St. George's Theatre in London, 
England. The program entitled the Tyrone 
Guthrie Lectures and Theatre Workshop, is 
being run in conjunction with St. George's 
Theatre and the City University, London, 
England. Undergraduate and graduate 
students from American or Canadian 
colleges or universities are eligible to parti­
cipate. Cost, which includes tuition, room 
and board, and theatre tickets, is 
approximately $600. A deposit of $100 is 
required upon application. Deadline for 
applications is March 21, 1973. For further 
information, write to Deborah Hornbake, 
Study Abroad Office, University of Pitts­
burgh, University Center for International 
Studies, Mervis Hall, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213, 
or call (412) 621-3500, extension 6500.
Max Lerner, author, columnist and Pro­
fessor of American Civilization and World 
Politics at Brandéis University, will speak 
in the Chatham College Chapel on Wed­
nesday, February 14 at 8 p.m. His subject 
is: “What Is Happening to Our Civili­
zation?” His lecture is open to the public 
without admission charge.
Friends of PIRG. Meeting for all interested
students concerning publicity, project pro­
posals, and establishing PIRG related 
courses. Wednesday, February 7. Room 54 
Skibo. 6:30 p.m.
Students interested in sitting on faculty
tenure réévaluation committees, contact 
Mike Garl, ext. 800, or Skibo 103.
The Design Department is sponsoring a
series of contemporary American and 
Canadian animated films. The series is 
divided into four parts. Each Friday 
(February 9, 16, 23, and March 2) one part 
of the program will be shown in Breed 
Hall, MMCC from 9:00 to 11:30 AM. A 
poster listing most of the films that will be 
shown is available, free and can be picked 
up at the Design Department office, Baker 
Hall 359.
"Women in Industry” A seminar by Mary
E. Kale of the Bethlehem Steel Cor­
poration will be held Friday, February 9, 
1973 at 3:30 Scaife Hall Auditorium.
Ronald McNeisch, a metal craftsman and
former Carnegie-Mellon University faculty 
member, will address the Women's Club of 
the University on Wednesday, February 7, 
at 1 p.m. at the Women's Club House, 15 
Roselawn Terrace.
Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Arts Festival, an
event that attracted over 200,000 visitors 
last year, will return to Gateway Center 
from May 25—June 3. The 1973 Festival, 
sponsored by Carnegie Institute, will 
include an open show, where artists rent 
panels; an invited show; juried crafts show; 
juried photography show; children's 
creative arts center; demonstrations of 
techniques; performing arts; and several 
special features to be announced later. 
Inquiries regarding festival entries should 
specify type of entry and should be 
directed to Three Rivers Arts Festival, 
4400 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213, (412)-687-7014. A large (Number 
10) self-addressed stamped envelope should 
accompany entry requests. Forms will be 
returned to applicants in March.
Classified Ads
Apartment for Rent. Highland Park—4
rooms, bath—complete privacy. $140 
(utilities included). Mark Ivanusic, 
661-2525.
Russia for sale! Educational Holiday - 4
days Moscos—3 days Leningrad. First class 
with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and 
transfers, including Ballet or Circus each 
city. $399, plus 10% for visas taxes and 
services. Departure date March 24, 1973. 
Call Ms. Zhivago at 391-4499 or write 
Scandinavian Airlines, 2 Penn Center, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19102.
* «- * ‘ • . * r 
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Belief ¡eld, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
p.m. 621-8875.
Wanted-Lionel 0.027, Super 0 and standard
guage trains. Call 335-7922 after 7 p.m.
WANTED—family love and Support for 3
college orphans—only Mellons or Scaifes 
need apply. 1 boy, 2 adorable girls. 
Contact immediately at 682-4557. 
Satisfaction guaranteed!
Canoe, Kayak & Sailing Craft. See us at the
Boat Show, Civic Arena, Feb. 7-11. Sawyer 
Fiberglass Canoe/Michicraft whitewater 
alum, canoe, Klepper Folding Kayak & 
Sailboats/Oldtown, Sea Snark, Sunflower 
Sealark, Wildflower, Butterfly. Sailboats 
from $119 to $695. Free demonstration 
and class lessons. 701 Wood St. 
Wilkinsburg, 371-4801.
POCKET ELECTRONIC CALCULATORS:
Improve your grades; take tests faster; why 
hassle with a computer when you need a 
calculator. POCKET ELECTRONIC CAL­
CULATORS FOR RENT OR SALE. Call: 
687-6044 (after 6 p.m.) for
information.
PART-TIME BABYSITTER WANTED:
for 6 month old near CMU Art Gallery. 
Monday, Thursday, and Friday from 3 
until 5. $7.50 per week. Call 621-2600 
ext.228 before 5 or 687-1757 after 5. Ask 
for Lois.
For Rent: Farm house in the city. June
13—Sept. 1. Furnished, 8 room home, big 
yard. $225 monthly. Call 521-4133.
New Records, Cassettes, 8-track. Records
$2.50 or old- 5 for $11.00. Cassettes and
8-track 3 for $10.00. Contact Gary Bron- 
heim 309-E Morewood Gardens, 682-7025.
Mt. Washington home with city view. Ex­
tensive remodeling. Living room with view 
window. Six rooms, moderately priced. 
431-3061.
For Sale: Harmony Rocket, hollow body
electric guitar. $45. Inquire at TARTAN 
Office or call 687-3713.
Large 2 bedroom Apt. for sublet or to
share with call 362-8457.
PERSONALS
Anna,
Well, I'm waiting
Discussions and workshops, a demon­
stration of batik art and a theater 
presentation will be featured during a 
three-day Colloquy to be held by Chatham 
College students on the campus February
9-11. The public is welcome to participate. 
Registration will take place Friday, 
February 9, from 2 p.m. in Mellon Center. 
Detailed information will be available at 
the desk.
Sundays on WRCT (900 AM). "The
Classics Show.” Bob King looks into time 
-tested music from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. "The 
Soul Set.” Warren Epps and Del Vann 
survey the best of Black music-jazz, blues, 
R&B and soul. (3-6 p.m.) "Perspective: 
CMU.” Carnegie-Mellon's newsmakers are 
interviewed by Sue Zimmerman. (6:15-7 
p.m.) "The Oldies Show.” Norm Beck 
revives some great R&R classics and takes 
requests simultaneously. Amazing. (7-9 
p.m.) "Album Spotlight.” The music, life 
and latest release of a rock artist are 
described and analyzed. (9-11 p.m.)
Sundays on WRCT: maybe a busy day for 
you; definitely an interesting one from us.
Poetry beyond classroom: Seminar in
reading and composition; emphasis on 
"beat” era. 687-6521.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society 
presentsMoneti 
Manmu
the world's greatest mime
assisted by PIERRE VERRY
WED., FEBRUARY 14 
8:30 PM 
Heinz Hall
Tickets: $4.50, $5.50, $6.50
at Heinz Hall Box Office 
(281-5000), Gimbels, Horne's, 
Kaufmann's and National Record Marts. 
20% discount to students and senior 
citizens with 10 at Heinz Hall Box 
Office.
Discounts to groups of 20 or more. 
Phone Phvllis Cohen, 281-8185.
Carl
SUMMER JOBS
Guys & Gals needed for summer 
employment at National Parks, 
Private Camps, Dude Ranches 
and Resorts throughout the na­
tion. Over 35,000 students aided 
last year. For Free information on 
student assistance program send 
self-addressed STAMPED enve­
lope to Opportunity Research, 
Dept. SJO, 55 Flathead Drive, 
Kalispell,MT 59901,
.... YOU MUST APPLY EARLY.....
The Activities Board Presents...VIRGIN PRESIDENT
Feb ruay6, Hall-2210 
7:00 and 9:00 5(K with AB card

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, Febryary6, 1973—Page 9
Freshman Opinions
continued from page 3
Board, WDC and MDC, Film Workshop, 
Fencing, Spirit, and if that’s not good 
enough, get off your chair (fooled ya) and 
organize one to fit your fancy. (It is 
allowed.) Don’t let the apathy spread. 
Culturally, we have four drama pro-, 
ductions a year, several studio productions 
a semester, Scotch and Soda, the Student 
Gallery, student recitals, the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra, Pittsburgh Ballet, Carnegie 
Museum, the zoo, numerous on and off 
campus concerts, Spring Carnival, lecturers, 
and if you don’t like any of these or the 
three movies a week shown on campus you 
can try the More wood experience; simply 
sit in the lobby and meet the people and 
talk. If you’re not appeased yet, try good 
ole American Friday night getting stoned 
watching Sanfor and Son. Friends-just 
look around and see the possibilities. If 
you are expecting it to come on a silver 
platter-forgetit.
CMU has many faults that will not be 
resolved immediately, but the ones that 
can be taken care of by you, will only be 
remedied by you. These are the “wonder 
years”, “the prime of your life”. Don’t be 
social donuts, at least make an attempt to 
overcome your shyness and make a friend 
today, and tomorrow. It all lies in YOU!
If nothing else, I hope this article con­
veyed the possibilities to someone-“If you 
don’t like it here you can leave, but 
wherever you go you will run into some­
thing else you don’t like”. Make the best of 
your four years. Thanks.
It was a pleasure to interview two 
students who made comments like, “Thare 
is always something to do if you look for 
it”, or even better. “I love CMU.” r _
^ The new
-—:-—1P
is coming!!!
On December 7th, the Civil Aeronautics Board Abolished Youth Fares 
Please cut out and mail the letter below to let 
Congress know where we stand and that 
proper legislation is in order to 
correct this injustice
\ACT NOW i
Dear Congressman: |
Please take action to save the Youth Fares and Discount Fares which have recently been 
abolished by the Civil Aeronautics Board.
I would appreciate it if you would also write the CAB and request that they delay enforcement 
of this decision until Congress has an opportunity to act on this important question.
Some 5-million students traveled using this discount fare in the past year. This contributed 
over $400-million to cover fixed costs of the airlines. These carriers can be presumed to have 
a full grasp of the marketing considerations involved and are, at least, as interested as the 
CAB in dropping any useless discount fares. Yet, an overwhelming majority of the airlines who 
participated In the CAB investigation are in favor of these fares.
Millions of students have purchased their Youth Fare identification cards with the belief that 
the cards would be valid until their 22nd birthday. Now the cards are being abruptly cut off by 
the CAB's decision.
As one of millions of young voters, I respectfully request that you act to pass legislation that 
will allow the CAB to discriminate on the basis of age by keeping Youth Fares. I will be anxiously 
awaiting the results of the coming legislation concerning this matter.
Mail to:CRADF
(Coalition To Retain Air Discount Fares) 
413 East Capitol Street, S.E. 
Washington, DC 20003
(signature)
(address)
(city, state & zip) 
Co-Sponsors
The National Student Lobby and Continental Marketing Corporation
VALENTINE’S DAY 
FEBRUARY 14th
A Day For Sentimental Remembrance
If You Have The Girl,
We Have The Valentine.
C-MU BOOKSTORE
52SH5HS25SZ52S252SH5H52S2SHSHS252S2S2SffiBHS2
GIRLS...
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1973 camp season, must be able 
to teach one of the following: Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and singing, Archery, Tennis, Golf, Trampoline, Photography, Cheerleading, 
Riflery (N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming Instructor, 
Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor, or general Athletics. Secretary 
and Bookeeper also needed.
*
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADER, must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs, etc. Super­
vise large staff. Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, Baltimore, Md. 
21209.
P
in on / /". . * 
dll commi -Ut <ts s All 
Tlted yricamt^rs.
Çnicr^UcL . . .
Cult 'ktvi l(lopc^ck 
di 3 3 \ ~~ 0 3 L 3 
or Itaby yic ht 
¿1/ Ski bo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973
C.R.A.B. fights architectural barriers
by Christina Infante
Last year CMU saw the birth of the 
Committee for the Removal of Archi­
tectural Barriers, whose immediate purpose 
is to make the campus more accessible to 
handicapped students. The Committee is 
appropriately referred to as “C.R.A.B.”; 
says chairman Mimi Blake, “That’s just 
what we had to do.” The group’s efforts 
have apparently had some effect. Both Dan 
Cillo and Mimi have been instrumental in 
bringing about the curb cuts at the Forbes 
Avenue crossing, the ramps on both sides 
of Baker Hall and the one to Doherty.
Dan, a Delta Tau Delta, was injured in a 
buggy race practice two years ago. Through 
the aid of his fraternity and Alpha Phi 
Omega ramps were installed in his frat 
house and in Doherty. Mimi, president of 
the Women’s Service Organization, saw 
what had been done for Dan and spoke 
about the idea to W.S.O. The group 
adopted and worked on the idea of imple­
menting ramps.
The obstacles to mobility for a handi­
capped student are great, and little assist­
ance is offered in the way of information 
as how to get around. As Mimi said, “I 
didn’t know there was an elevator in Baker 
Hall for a year and a half!”
Essentially, CMU has not been open to 
the handicapped, and does not have the 
facilities to accomodate such students in 
the Fine Arts, GSIA, Design or Psychology 
buildings. Consequently, prospective 
students who are physically handicapped 
often rule out the University.
So far, the committee has drawn up a 
priority list of needed ramps. With the cost 
of $150 per curb cut and $400 per ramp 
* coupled with very limited funds, C.R.A.B. 
has focused their immediate attention on 
five cuts and one ramp to be placed in 
front of Morewood Gardens, Scaife Hall 
and a ramp to Margaret Morrison and the 
stadium, from Skibo.
Working with Frank Colosimo of 
operations, the committee, comprised of 
Mimi, Dan', Benita Rohm, Gary Bacz- 
kowski and Mark Yochum, has placed their 
work order. Yet, no progress is visible. The 
reason lies partly in the fact that only half
of the estimated expense has been awarded 
by independent organizations, (the rest is 
entirely dependent upon the University) 
and partly in the lack of formal admini­
strative statement of policy.
The long range plan of the group is not 
just to modify the physical structure of the 
campus for the handicapped students here, 
but to publicize the innovations, thus 
opening admissions. C.P.A.B. hopes to 
form a permanent independent committee 
that will advise the administration of the 
needs of such students, and will counsel 
other handicapped students as to “ways to 
get around”.
The new love story from Cric ^Rohmer
COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents BERNARD VERLEY ‘ Z0UZ0U
,NA ERIC ROHMER Thecrea,oro,FILM BYMy Night at Maud's" & "Claire's Knee.”
Ch/oeinthe
C/ffjternoon
Selected to open the 10th New York Film Festival.
with FRANÇOISE VERLEY • Cmímjtoírjph» by NESTOR ALMENDROS • Sour«! by JEAN-PIERRE RUH ¦ Scrnnpiay by p . 
ERIC ROHMER • by PIERRE COTTRELL • LES FILMS DU LOSANGE-BARBET SCHROEDER Production “ “NOW SHADYSIDE—Walnut St. Theatre........682-1901
SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS AND SENIORS!
HOW ABOUT $8.33 an HOUR!
ALL ADVANCED COURSE ROTC CADETS RECEIVE $100 TAX FREE ALLOW­
ANCE EACH MONTH. THAT WORKS OUT TO $8.33/HRS. FOR THREE HOURS OF 
CLASS PER WEEK.
HOW DO YOU GET IT? SIMPLE!
TAKE MILITARY SCIENCE
INTERESTED IN A SCHOLARSHIP?
IF YOU QUALIFY, THE MILITARY WILL FINANCE YOUR TUITION, YOUR BOOKS, 
AND YOUR BAL FEES, IN ADDITION TO THE $100/MQNTH ALLOWANCE!
WHAT ELSE CAN YOU GET?
AN EDUCATIONAL DELAY FROM ACTIVE DUTY FOR GRAD SCHOOL, MED AND 
LAW SCHOOL! ARMY FINANCED GRAD SCHOOL IF YOU QUALIFY!
ATTENTION VETERANS!
YOU GET SPECIAL COMPENSATION FOR YEARS SPENT ON ACTIVE DUTY!
YOU ARE ALSO ELIGIBLE FOR 1,2, or 3, YEAR SCHOLARSHIPS!
UPON GRADUATION, YOU CAN EITHER SERVE ON ACTIVE DUTY FOR 2 YEARS 
OR CHOOSE TO ENTER CIVILIAN LIFE AFTER HAVING SERVED 3 MONTHS ACT- 
TIVE DUTY TRAINING.
age2 THEA Tg RNu 2s- dy,Fdyd
ROOM 203 GYMNASIUM
Inter-dorm 
Phones Proposed
Discussion is progressing o‘n plans to 
extend phone communication between all 
dormitories. Two possibilities for establish­
ing inter-dorm contact are being con­
sidered.
One means is installation of three-digit 
campus extensions in various locations in 
all dorms and fraternities. These phones 
would allow 24-hour access to all campus 
phones from any point, and would involve 
a monthly service charge from Bell Tele­
phone.
A second plan calls for linking hill 
dorms to the current Morewood house 
phones. This would provide two-digit 
calling between the hill dorms and More­
wood only. Installation and periodic main­
tenance would be the only expenses for 
this system.
A combination of both systems with 
reduced numbers of each type of phone 
has been suggested. But student opinions 
are needed before any action will be taken. 
Dorm residents are encouraged to express 
their feelings on the above proposals by 
calling Frank Colosimo at ext. 806.
Offers 
Cecture Series
C-MU’s College of Fine Arts will in­
augurate a lecture series February 7 dealing 
with the relationship between artistic 
theory and practice.
Speakers in the 1973 Lecture Series will 
be distinguished faculty members who will 
discuss problems that have developed in 
their disciplines.
“The discussions will have an intellec­
tual thrust,” said Akram Midani, dean of 
the College of Fine Arts, “But at the same 
time they will relate to the problems which 
are emerging from the professional 
education and training in the college.
“I am a believer in the aspect of authen­
ticity in education,” he added. “The 
relationship between the intellectual 
aspects of the arts and the practice of the 
arts ought to be authentic and precise, 
leaving no room for dabbling or super­
ficiality.”
The first speaker in the series will be Dr. 
Howard Saalman, Andrew Mellon Professor 
of Architecture, who is known for his 
studies in Medieval and Renaissance archi­
tecture and the history of cities.
Dr. Saalman, who has been on the CMU 
faculty since 1958, will discuss “Rational 
Architecture” at 8:00 p.m. February 7 in 
the College of Fine Arts faculty room. The 
following week, on February 14, he will 
speak on “Irrational Architecture.”
A native of Germany, Dr. Saalman is 
currently working on a two-volume mono­
graph on the Renaissance architect Filippo 
Brunelleschi. Among his recent publi­
cations is a volume on “Medieval Cities” 
and a study in G.E. Haussmann, “Paris 
Transformed”.
Other speakers in the series will be Dr. 
James L. Rosenberg, playwright and 
professor of drama at CMU, and Dr. Orville 
M. Winsand, head of the University’s 
department of painting and sculpture.
“We are very much interested in the 
relationship between the praxis and the 
poetics of the arts,” said Dean Midani. 
“This constituency of faculty members 
would develop and illuminate such a 
bridge.”
Charles 38,2441
HerhArt Hours byp age ¦ Appointment
Corle XOTARY PUBLIC

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973-Page 11
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL 
EWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Sat. Feb. 10-8 p.m. Sun. Feb. 11- 7 p.m.
SQUARE DANCE GAME NIGHT - BINGO
Duquesne University Student Union B’nai B’rith Hillel Library
Duquesne Room—3rd floor 3rd FI. 315 S. Bellefield
Prizes to tickle your fancy
' 16
Mon. Feb. 12— Noon 
MIDDLE EAST PERSPECTIVES 
Lunch & Lecture Series, Part III 
Topic: The Arab-lsraeli Conflict Today 
Speaker: Dr. Richard Cottam, Dept, of Political Science 
University of Pittsburgh 
Location: Hillel Library—3rd fl. 315 S. Bellefield 
Cost for lunch $.50
ENGINEERS-
Chemical... Metallurgical... 
Mechanical... Industrial...START RIGHT WITH 
N L INDUSTRIES.
If your interest is in research and 
development, technical sales, production, 
accounting or data processing, you should 
consider N L Industries, Inc.
N L’s business is providing essential 
industries with essential products—ranging 
from industrial chemicals and metals to 
nuclear products and services, paints, plas­
tics and oil well drilling services. We have 
27,000 employees operating 
over 200 plants, offices,mines 
and laboratories throughout 
the U.S. and the world. INDUSTRIESNi
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE: 
FEBRUARY 13,1973________________
Wanted!
It you can spend some time, even a few hours, with someone who needs 
a hand, not a handout, call your local Voluntary Action Center.
Or write to: "Volunteer, Washington. DC. 20CB ^\feneedvou.
The National Center tor \¿jpV
Concert Moved
continued from page 1
the conditions for using ttieir facility. CMU
previously sponsored the Allman Brothers 
and Isaac Hayes at the Mosque. For the 
Allman Brothers concert the Syria Mosque 
asserted that CMU cost them over one 
thousand dollars worth of damage. At the 
Isaac Hayes concert there were two shows 
which the Syria Mosque complained caused 
trouble with lateness and overcrowding. 
There is some question as to whether the 
people that attend the concerts sponsored 
by CMU are less mature and more rowdy 
than the usual public audience. The 
Activities Board is trying to appeal to its 
own student body, which is an older 
crowd.
Bob McCurdy, director of student 
activities, expressed this hope for the 
concert. “We are using the gym as an 
experiment and we hope that it will work 
because this would give the Activities 
Board much more flexibility in bringing 
concerts to CMU. We did not want to 
disappoint students who were looking 
forward to hearing the Byrds and with the 
cancellation of Mark Almond such a 
gesture would lead to a questioning of the
Board’s credibility. If the concert works 
and we get enough approval the Activities 
Board might be able to raise part of the 
$4,000 to place a new covering on the 
floor. Right now too many cigarette butts 
could ruin the floor. As the Syria Mosque 
might maintain this policy it would be 
extremely valuable to use such a campus 
facility for concerts in the future.”
Researchers now are working with 
whales, dolphins and porpoises to see if 
they can be taught to “talk” with people as 
well as work with them. The sea mammals 
have been used for some time by the Navy 
for performing a number of undersea tasks 
that include the retrieval of test weapons, 
rescuing frogmen in trouble, and acting as 
underwater messengers for Sealab II re­
searchers. The February SCIENCE 
DIGEST reports that because of their 
ability to go much deeper than men and 
because they can be trained to do a variety 
of underwater chores, these creatures are 
favored as more economical and practical 
than the complicated operations of men 
and equipment. But now some researchers 
claim that several porpoises have been 
taught to vocalize recognizable word 
sounds, Most scientists snort, but they are 
listening.
CLAIROL
The Sound 
of the 
Different 
Drummer
CLAIROL
will be on this campus 
Feb. 19th and 20th 
In Warner Hall to 
Interview UPCOMING
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
For Peimanent and Summer Employment.
PLEASE CHECK PLACEMENT OFFICE FOR DETAILS AND SIGN-UP.
How to tell if you’ve' 
outgrown the 10- minute
hamburger. If you've outgrown the bal­
loons and the clowns. And you're sick and tired of standing 
in line with a million kids You’ve probably outgrown the 
10-minute hamburger. And now - you’re ready - for Arby's. 
Arby’s has a tender, juicy roast beef sandwich we spent 
four hours cooking. And now that you're older you can 
appreciate that. Savory roast beef cooked slowly. Instead 
of ground meat fried quick. So the next time someone 
suggests the hamburger hangout with the kids. Why don't 
you suggest Arby's? Without the kids.
4T Roast Beef * Sandwich
I Buy 2 Arby's Sandwiches | 
I Get 3rd Free
I 
I
COUPON - 
VALID I
ArbyV. NOW ThroughSSdwSr»F'b-i,’i!”3;
5 minutes away. I
‘ Copyright 1971 Marketing4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 6, 19.73
ENTERTAINMENT
Fifois
by Doug StoneSteelyard Blues
Films
“Steelyard Blues”, starring Peter Boyle, 
Jane Fonda, and Donald Sutherland, 
s^Vected by Alan Myerson.
“Steelyard Blues” is a misleading title. 
It evokes images of Robber Baron days and 
union labor leaders revolting against the 
oppression of the workers. This illusion 
however is far removed from the picture. 
“Steelyard Blues” is a hysterical comedy 
about a misfit (Donald Sutherland) who 
can’t find any sort of niche in society. His 
main talents include demolition derby 
driving, and breaking the law.
As the picture opens, Sutherland has 
just left prison again and his brother, the 
district attorney is determined to set 
Sutherland on a worthwhile course once 
and for all. Unfortunately for his brother, 
Sutherland wants only to complete his 
dream of demolishing every model of 
United States car made from 1940 through 
1960 in a demolition derby. After this he 
wishes to escape the rigid world of his 
brother, and find his own happiness.
The story concerns Sutherland and his 
friends, Boyle, Fonda, and others as they 
attempt to escape from the rules that seem 
to oppress them at every juncture. Suther­
land’s group is a bunch of harmless free 
spirits, who wouldn’t hurt anyone, and 
who just wish to be left to their own 
designs. “Steelyard Blues” gives us a 
demonstration of the triumph of freedom 
over rigidly oppressive rules that sometimes 
obstruct us in our lives.
“Steelyard Blues” is a strict comedy, 
and as such demands that we accept some 
outrageous situations in return for a laugh. 
This is fine, but some situations are need­
lessly present in this movie. There are 
several scenes of useless violence that add 
nothing to the movie and should have tjeen 
cut.
Theatergrease
“Grease”, the new 50’s musical comedy 
that is one of the biggest hits of the current 
Broadway season, opens at the Nixon 
Theatre for one week beginning Monday, 
February 12 through Saturday, February 
17, 1973.
“Grease” brings back the look and 
sound of the late 50’s, the first such 
musical since “Bye Bye Birdie” and equally 
as successful. Writers Jim Jacobs and 
Warren Casey, who were both teenagers 
during the 50’s, have steered clear of the 
“camp” variety of musical that this type of 
material so often provokes. Instead, they 
have attempted to recapture the flavor of 
that inane world of the early rockers, when 
the boys wore their hair short, but slicked 
back with grease into the famous D.A. and 
the £irls wore poodle skirts, penny loafers, 
and threw pajama parties where they 
smoked cigarettes instead of pot.
And the music is all there, reminiscent 
of the Elvis Presley heyday, with such titles 
as “Rock ’n’ Roll Party Queen”, “It’s 
Raining on Prom Night”, “Beauty School 
Dropout”, “Look at Me, I’m Sandra Dee”, 
“Shakin’ at the High School Hop” and 
many others that read like a roll of the Top 
Ten of the 1950’s.
The entire production staff of the 
Broadway production has been reas­
sembled to create the National Company 
of “Grease”. Tom Moore is again directing.
In a strict comedy, when a scene is not 
being funny, it should be leading to 
another comic scene. One of the problems 
with “Steelyard Blues” is that when the 
picture is not being funny, it is being stag­
nant and dull. Taking this into account 
however, “Steelyard’s” merits far outweigh 
its flaws, and it emerges a success.
Sutherland, Boyle, and Fonda carry the 
main portion of the film. Sutherland plays 
Jesse Valdini, the misfit with a profound 
disregard for other’s property. Sutherland 
is excellent in this role. This is to be 
expected, however, as Sutherland has an 
uncanny knack when playing a part that
calls for him to act stupid. Ms. Fonda does 
little that any other competent actress 
could do, playing Iris Kane, the prostitute 
and sometimes paramour of Donald 
Sutherland. Peter Boyle is wonderfully 
insane as Eagle, a character who 
periodically checks into a mental hospital 
when not getting into trouble. Boyle 
displays great comic acting, and a superb 
imitation of Marlon Brando’s character in 
“The Wild One”.
“Steelyard Blues” is easily one of the 
most delightful films to be presented in 
some time, and should be enjoyed by 
everyone at least once.
Fonda and Sutherland (above) and the whole gang (below)
Musical supervision, vocal and dance 
arrangements are Louis St. Louis; orche­
strations are by Michael Leonard, and 
sound is by Jack Shearing. Mack Schlefer is 
musical director. Sets, costumes and 
lighting are by Douglas W. Schmidt, Carrie 
F. Robbins and Karl Eigsti respectively.
Patricia Birch, who choreographed the 
Broadway production, has done the same 
for the National Company. Douglas Watt, 
critic for the New York Daily News, hailed 
“Grease” as “the dancingest show in
town”, while another critic called the 
dancing “pure dynamite”. Nothing has 
been spared by the creative staff in their 
attempt to accurately .recreate the mood 
and feeling of the 50’s, which in “Grease” 
is seen through the eyes of the Senior class 
of Rydell High. The characters, in fact, are 
based on real people who went to high 
school with the writers. The high school 
yearbook photographs that decorate the 
proscenium of the set are classmates of the 
producers, from Baltimore.
SOUNDER
by Win ton Snyder
“Sounder” starring Cicely Tyson, directed 
by Martin Ritt, screenplay by Lonne Elder 
III.
“Sounder” was briefly reviewed in the 
TARTAN of January 30. Since that issue 
the film has opened in Pittsburgh (at the 
Fulton-Mini of all places) and a further 
word would therefore seem in order. 
“Sounder” concerns a family of Black 
sharecroppers and their endurance of the 
depression in Louisiana. When Nathan Lee 
Morgan is imprisoned for the theft of food, 
his wife, Rebecca and his son, David Lee, 
maintain their farm. Eventually David Lee 
embarks on an unsuccessful search for his 
father’s undisclosed whereabouts. At the 
conclusion of the film Nathan Lee returns 
home and agrees to allow his son to be sent 
to school.
The film’s importance is two-fold; first 
that it presents it sentimental plot with 
grace and considerable skill, and second 
that it aspires to a level of authenticity 
rarely portrayed on the screen.
'The emergence of the film as something 
more than mawkish nostalgia is a special 
triumph considering that the visual ele­
ments, as well as the facts of the plot are 
weighted toward the sentimental. The 
opening credits and most of the photo­
graphy evoke memories of Walt Disney’s 
“Old Yeller”. Occasionally scenarist Elder 
goes astray-as when David Lee’s quest for 
his father is rather jerkily terminated and 
when the title of the picture is an analogy 
that is less subtle than the film it names. 
Still, the terse dialogue and successful 
pacing replace the near sentimental with 
the impressively honest.
Cicely Tyson’s performance is singularly 
moving, if not awe inspiring. The acting in 
all other cases is competent or better. The 
realism that “Sounder” achieves is due in 
no small part to the strength of the acting.
This realistic quality gives “Sounder” its 
greatest significance. “Sounder” is almost 
revolutionary in its presentation of Black 
life in America as something more than a 
reaction to white prejudice. The family 
relationship of the Morgans commands our 
attention and respect. This relationship is 
the ^dominant theme of the movie. The 
heavy=handed moralizing and crude staging 
of racist events that has plagued every 
Hollywood Black experience movie from 
“Pinky” to “Lady Sings the Blues”. White 
racism is evident in “Sounder” but only as 
a counterpoint to an exploration of a seg­
ment of Black America in the 1930’s. The 
social order, the music, the daily activities 
of living in a specific time and place--these 
are the essential elements of “Sounder”.
Ralph Ellison in his essay “The World 
and the Jug” says in a response to Irving 
Howe: ... American Negro life (and here 
he is encouraged by certain Negro “spokes­
men”) is, for the Negro who must live it, 
not only a burden (and not always that) 
but also a discipline-^ ust as any human life 
which has endured so long is a discipline 
teaching its own insights into the human 
condition, its own strategies of survival. 
There is a fullness, even a richness here; 
and here despite the realities of politics, 
perhaps, but nevertheless here and real. 
Because it is human life.
By avoiding the temptation to make 
“Sounder” simply another example of 
“everybody’s protest movie”, director Ritt 
and author Elder have nudged Hollywood 
in a more mature direction.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 6, 1973-Page 13
Truth? And Falsehood? In Art?
Or
I Believe Your Mother Was An Artist Also.
Didn't She Paint Still Lives?
by Michael Mesaras
The interrelationship of the concepts of truth and falsehood lies nestled in a 
system of linguistics. It was in the development of linguistic systems in Western 
Culture with its preoccupation with analysis and attitudes for carrying out such 
schemes that we began to believe it could and should be discovered in all 
undertakings of value. Truth and falsehood can exist in "statements'’ about things, 
and lingual statements only then only of a particularly “hard edged” type at that. 
The type which was bom of Western analytic tradition-LOGIC. With this approach 
to discover “meaningful relationships” there are boundaries set-up of the most 
precarious nature.
The empiricism of David Hume classifies the propositional world into two 
classes: the “relations of ideas” and “matters of fact”. The claim is that “relations 
of ideas ” exists in logic and pure mathematics because they are analytical and 
cannot be refuted in experience and because they do not make any assertions 
about the empirical world and the whole process is simply a recording of the 
determination to use lingual and mathematical symbols in an accurate fashion.
My purpose in stating where the house is that those fleeting concepts of truth 
and falsehood reside is to distinguish it for the artist because it is in a conceptual 
slum anyway. I am deliniating it for some of the artists I have known, because they 
feel that the investigations that they are undertaking will at the end contain truth 
and show them what is false. Artists do not have to worry about truth because they 
make facts. An artist’s work is an empirical world and worrying whether one’s 
work is true or false is unnecessary baggage on an already difficult journey. A 
painting once painted and a song once sung is like a stone; it is a ‘matter of fact \ It 
has no excuse for itself. The question of good and bad art lies within the history 
and period study of styles and genre. Art can be seen as good and bad only through 
a veil of time and veils have a way of distorting the veiled. How many wrinkles 
must Doris Day have had in those films with vasaline on the lenses!
Records
"Tranquility," "Yes" or No
by Steve Perkins
Theater
The Effect of Gamma Rays
“Tranquility” is a new band out of the 
British Isles with some interesting and 
diverse possibilities. It could be either a 
group of modestly accomplished English 
musicians trying to capitalize on the 
popularity of the “Yes” or a highly 
creative group of instrumentalists and song­
writers whose style has not really matured 
yet. “Silver”, which is as far as I know the 
group’s first album, leaves considerable 
doubt as the group’s intentions.
I nstru mentally, the group sounds 
heavily influenced by the “Yes” although 
it lacks much of the latter’s structural 
complexity in composition. It also lacks 
the mechanized coldness of the “Yes’s” 
recent work, something that is surely a 
point in “Tranquility’s” favor. Tranquility 
also has more of a jazz feeling and little of 
the classical influence of the “Yes”. The 
influence of the’Beatles on the group is 
obvious, too, but then who hasn’t been 
influenced by the Beatles?
The band consists of two lead guitars, 
rhythm guitar, keyboards, bass and drums. 
Most of the six musicians do not seem 
particularly brilliant or outstanding in 
themselves, but the group has a tight, 
cohesive ensemble sound and what solo 
work there is is at least tasteful. If any 
member of the group is individually out­
standing it would have to be drummer Paul 
Francis. His drumming is extremely clean 
and generates a lot of energy though it is 
subtle and restrained, like good jazz 
drumming. Francis is always cooking and 
manages to propel the rest of the group 
through their more mediocre moments. 
The group’s vocals are somewhere between 
Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young and the Bee 
Gees. The harmonies are polished but do 
not reach the point of cold sterility the 
“Yes” often seem to arrive at. Lead guitar­
ist Terry Shaddick does most of the lead 
vocals as well as writing most of the 
group’s material.
The compositions on this album are all 
original and all but one were written by 
Terry Shaddick; they range from mediocre 
to interesting. Most of the material is very 
similar in style; mellow but crisp rock 
music with a certain amount of jazz
influence and simple but often interesting 
chord progressions. This is the group’s 
basic sound and it seems to tread a fine line 
between boredom and exhilaration; this 
album has equal parts of each. There are 
some variations in the basic style, however. 
“Linda” is very reminiscent of Dicky Bett’s 
recent compositions for the Allman 
Brothers Band. The slide guitar on the cut 
is also very reminiscent of Bett’s slide 
work. “The Driver’s Engine” is an attempt 
at sort of a country bluegrass style which 
somehow is just too polished, too English 
sounding, and completely lacking in the 
down-home raunch that could have made it 
come off. “Dear Oh Dear” is a 1930’s 
sounding thing sort of in the same vein as 
the Beatles’ “When I’m Sixty Four” or 
“Honey Pie” and is quite successful. 
Finally, in “The Tree” we have a nice little 
acoustic tune, but it is an obvious imitation 
of Donovan, even down to the vocal style.
The arrangements of the songs are all 
quite excellent, their only weakness being a 
tendency toward long, boring instrumental 
introductions and a few irrelevant codas 
tacked on to things in an apparent attempt 
to sound like the “Yes”. I should acknowl­
edge, however, that on the album’s title 
cut, “Silver”, the group does a “Yes”-like 
series of tempo changes which comes off 
quite well. Actually the arrangements and 
the group’s tight ensemble sound are the 
salvation of most of the songs; it is 
doubtful whether very many of them could 
stand on their own well enough to be 
played in a different arrangement by 
another group. (That, of course, remains to 
be seen.)
“Tranquility” seems to be a group with 
a lot of potential that hasn’t really matured 
yet. They could go on from where they are 
now to become either a highly creative and 
worthwhile band or just another top forty- 
oriented schlock group. Their main 
strength lies in good vocals, good arrange­
ments and a good ensemble sound. If they 
can reproduce these three things in a live 
performance, they will prove themselves a 
worthy band despite whatever other 
weaknesses they may have.*
by Barbara Kiefer
Realistic drama has been acclaimed as a 
medium through which the playgoer may 
view life as it exists for modem man. This 
genre provides man with no distinctive 
capacity for tragic suffering or delightful 
caprice. Paul Zindel has written a tour de 
force, paradoxically, about five people 
experiencing their own wretchedness: “The 
Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-In-The- 
Moon Marigolds”. It is a moving piece of 
drama. It is in production this week at the 
Nixon starring Theresa Wright as Betty the 
Loon.
There is a lot to be said about the per­
formance of each character in this play. 
There is as much to say about the charac­
terization. On one level, Zindel presents 
the lower class family; the people who 
never straddle the circumstance because 
their insight/foresight is lacking. But there 
exists simultaneously a delicate rendering 
of the pedantic forces that have made 
Beatrice what she is, and revolve in and 
around the lives of her two daughters, 
Ruth and Tilly. Objective response keeps 
the play out of the clutches of melodrama; 
that singularly comic voice of the person 
who realizes he is being duped by someone 
or something so much bigger than him as 
to make revolt absurd. Beatrice’s abortive 
attempt to open a tea shop as a measure to 
pull her family out of its misery is just as 
much a farce to her as it is to us; and she 
can only “hate the world”. Her limbo is 
the relentless struggle that the modern-day 
poor have inherited: The struggle for 
acknowledgement; not of peccavi, but of 
humanity.
There is an interesting aspect of this 
conflict which Zindel reveals through the 
portrayal of Tiilie, a plain, humble girl 
awed by science. She conducts an exper­
iment in which several marigold plants 
mutate through exposure to gamma rays, 
and ultimately wins the school Science Fair 
prize for her discoveries. The underlying 
implications are tremendous. We may see 
the marigolds as representatives of all
oppressed people, we may attribute the 
mutated plants (as opposed to the healthy 
one) to Beatrice and Ruth, who cannot 
escape their nightmares-mental, emo­
tional, or literal-as Tiilie can through her 
scientific aspirations. Indeed, Tiilie is 
subtly numbed by what goes on around 
her; she either blanks out or embodies the 
emotional intensity of her mother and 
sister. At the end of the play, Tiilie speaks 
of the potential bad effects of gamma rays 
just as the emotional dam has broken on 
Ruth and Beatrice, and we are left feeling 
the correlation between gamma rays and 
deterred passion.
Ms. Wright’s portrayal of the em­
bittered, desolate Beatrice is commendable. 
She weaves the fragile thread of histrionic 
sensibility for the play, and the audience 
works with her, moving this way and that 
as she carouses about the stage denouncing 
the world and herself. Ruth is dynamic; 
those who identify as her peers will find 
themselves squirming in their seats. Tiilie 
gains our sympathy and praise. She is the 
protagonist, the one whose fate we hope 
will expiate the others, and Ms. Stoddart 
does a fine job. Nanny permeates the stage 
with her ancient silence and does not speak 
although we would want her to. It seems 
her final degradation is muteness in the 
world that has brought her isolation. And 
Janice Vickery is delightfully portrayed by 
Carol Potter as the girl who skins the live 
feline victim of an auto accident to prove 
that “you did something more in high 
school than date.”
Zindel has a good sense of segmentation 
and character change or discovery, which 
helps to create the immediacy so important 
to “Marigolds”. And there are nice theatre 
techniques at work: recorded voice, scene 
black-outs, effective lighting.
Count the reasons why you may not 
like this play. It is all female, it is anti- 
ethical, it is grim. “Marigolds” is one 
exploration in the cataplexy demoralizing 
this century.
Theresa Wright as Beatrice in 'Marigolds'

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, February 6, 1973
SPORTS
EDITORIAL—
I apologize. There weren't seven baskets being wasted. There were only three.
Now on to more current matters.
I said make a sacrifice in the name of sportsmanship, not sacrifice sports­
manship!
As I have it, there is reason to suspect that such immolation occurs in the 
intermediate section of I.M. basketball. I’ve heard complaints from some players on 
the subject of players from a certain league officiating games in the same loop. The 
play calling of these arbitrators has appeared so bad to the plaintiffs that they are 
not sure of the absence of a sort of conspiracy between other teams to keep them
out of the race they are in the thick of. In back-to-back games last week, a referee 
turned in a poor performance one night, robbing them of a victory by allowing 
more time than was left for an inbounds play at the end of regulation play. The 
game was tied up, went into triple overtime, and they lost to the give-us-an-inch, 
we ’ll-take-a-milers.
The next night the referee faced his victims as a player. He was defeated this 
time, along with another untalented official, and a player who walked off the court 
in the midst of play to punch a high school spectator (nothing was said). fine 
play and preparation-for-any thing.
I feel there’s a good reason to believe that it’s not good policy to let 
player-referees oversee contests in their own leagues. I wish the commissioner 
would look into this situation. Some action on his part might check the disillusion­
ment with running of things in I.M. basketball.
Jeff R. Englund
J. J. jumps with all-PAC Russ Drake of Case.
Basketball
Photo by Nick Lardas
Tartans Have Road Trouble
by Roger Geddes
Last week saw the varsity cagers face 
two strong opponents, Case-Western 
Reserve University and Grove City College. 
Their record now stands at 1-11 as they 
lost both games by scores of 90-53 ^nd 
74-65, respectively.
Both opposing teams were among the 
tallest C-MU has faced this year. Case- 
Western boasted a 6’9” center while Grove 
City started a 6’6” center and two 6’5” 
forwards. The tallest starter in both games 
for the Tartans stood at 6’3”.
In the game in Cleveland, C-WRU took a 
30 point lead at the half and the game was 
decided right there. In the losing cause,
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can ba arrangad mm thin 24 
houn and you can rttum homa tha lama day you 1«
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Organization 
opan 7 Oay» a wat»
Tony takes it easy.
Track
Photo by Henry Collins.
Tony McKay Wins at Pitt
Ralph Domenick led C-MU with 18 points.
At Grove City, the Tartans started out 
very cold and fell behind 14-2. At the half 
they still trailed by the score of 40-29. The 
end of the game saw them lose by only 9 
points, but they never really made a strong 
enough comeback to. win. Five Tartans 
shot their way into double figures with 
Gary Rentsch pacing them with 15 points.
In action this week, the Tartans will 
travel to Cleveland on Monday to play 
John Carroll, then to New Hampshire on 
Friday to play St. Anselm’s, and to Boston 
on Saturday for a game against M.I.T.
Chinese archaeologists have uncovered a 
tomb 2,100 years old and found in it the 
remarkably preserved remains of the wife 
of a Chinese aristocrat, and more than 
1,000 artifacts in excellent condition. 
February SCIENCE DIGEST reports the 
50-year-old woman’s body was discovered 
in an ancient burial pit sealed within six 
coffins along with a full complement of 
food, clothing, and utensils for use in the 
next life. The excellent condition of the 
artifacts, many of which might still be 
•used, and the well preserved state of the 
body, prompted Chinese archaeologists to 
label the tomb as the greatest single find of 
the century.
by Jeff R. Englund
Camegie-Mellon University, where the 
computer nerds are the heroes, has a sports 
figure who will reach national prominence 
during his college career. His name is Tony 
McKay, and at the Pitt Track Classic on 
Saturday, January 27, he ran the fastest 
600 yard run in the country for this year. 
His time was 1:10:27.
The Compton, California junior, who 
majors in physics, bettered the standing 
mark of 1:11:01 belonging to Dennis 
Walker of Adel Phi. Walker is a member of 
a world-record holding relay team.
Tony’s coach, Gary Meckley, states that 
Tony is a tremendous asset to the whole 
athletic program. He says that now there 
should be more cooperation between the 
school and its athletic program, and that 
we should be able from now on to take 
Tony to the national meets in which he is 
qualified and deserves to participate-
On Friday the 2nd he’ll run at the 
Western Michigan relays, and a week later 
he’ll go to Michigan St. for a big national 
meet. Then in late February, if all goes 
well, to the NCAA Championships in New
York, both college and university divisions, 
indoor and outdoor. A possible impedi­
ment here is the fact that CMU only 
became NCAA members in November 
1972 and may not be eligible. Coach 
Meckley has written to the head of the 
association to ask waiver of any barriers 
and is awaiting the reply.
Tony runs the 220, 440, 600,880, mile, 
aid 440 relay for the Tartans, and also 
broad jumps. In the fall he was number 
two man on our PAC 2nd place cross­
country team.
He is confident that he can soon* set 
national records. His 600, only the second 
of his career, is three-tenths seconds faster 
than last year’s winning time in the 
nationals and little more than a second off 
the world mark. His best time in the 
quarter mile is :47:2, which is very good 
and shows he has a shot at greatness in 
more than one event.
There is little doubt that Tony will be at 
the ‘76 Olympics in Montreal. He’s already 
qualified. Gary Meckley says only the 
troubles of being a great athlete at C-MU 
kept him from being a candidate at Munich 
this past summer.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing — Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND—3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE—5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900

---------------------------------------------------

Women Zaking 
the Jloor
by Sybelle Mryczko
On January 9th the women’s basketball 
team, coached by Miss Jane Fisk of the 
women’s Physical Education Department, 
began practice. Absent from this year’s 
line-up was last season’s top scorer, Paula 
Vergith, and captain and center, Catherine 
DuBreuil. However, six players did return 
from last year’s team: Juniors Cindy 
Whitmore and Ruthie Potts; Sophomores 
Marty Lisberger, Linda Ackerman, Pat 
Saladow; and Senior, this year’s captain, 
Sybelle “Sam” Mryczko. Welcome 
additions to the team are juniors Pat Berry, 
Sandy La Pietra; sophomore Barb Toole; 
and freshmen Fran Pauley and Eleanor 
Zimmerman.
Despite the promising outlook, the team 
was undermanned, losing four to the flu 
and two to injuries, for its first scrimmage 
of the season against the West Penn grads. 
Nevertheless, the Tech women took 
command of the game early with a success­
ful fast break combination of Whitmore, 
Lisberger and Zimmerman. Never relin­
quishing the lead, the Tech women won 
38-30. High scorer was Cindy Whitmore 
with 12, followed by Ellie Zimmerman 
Marty Lisberger and Sandy La Pietra, 6 
each; and Fran Pauley and Linda 
Ackerman, 4 each.
Flush with victory, two nights later the 
team took on the faculty-grads in a pre­
liminary game before the C-MU—Allegheny 
varsity game. Inexperience and the strange­
ness of the larger men’s gym plagued the 
team and the Tech women were behind 
24-4 at half-time. The second half for the 
C-MU team did not begin until the fourth 
quarter. Cindy Whitmore exploded for 9, 
but it came too late; the Tech women went 
down to defeat 39-17. Scoring: 
C.Whitmore, 11; E. Zimmerman, 4, M. 
Lisberger, 2.
Miss Fisk expects the team to be back 
up to strength for this week’s games with 
Penn State and Pitt. Tough competition is 
expected from Pitt and the women will be 
seeking their first victory against the 
Panthers since 1968.
Looking ahead to the rest of the 
schedule of games with Bethany, Carlow, 
Geneva, Duquesne, California and Indiana, 
the C-MU women’s basketball team should 
come out on the plus side with a possible 
7-3 record. Start the team on its way with 
support at their first home game against 
P.S.U., 4:30 p.m. Tuesday, February 16.
RU6S
for br
wMi ywr ID Gmré
1000 9x12 Rugs 
SIS S19 S29 549
6br IaK IklK IMH «.
• VNOUSAU PHMHTUH * 
KDMOtU, UVIMOaOOttfc CVC 
AVAHABif AT MCAMY IMOtfflKXMU
tanp* «k. lay» fenritantfM
CHASE’S
MUKUWriTMW, IWMTIM
Of** DAILY 10 mi. «• * pm.
(Smtmémf 10 «.«. *• J pjtj 
9m Irfiii i <iii ... Col Ut-l«
by Glenn Campbell
The Tartan hockey team, in first place 
with a 6-0-2 record, is preparing for a 
February 18 doubleheader at the Civic 
Arena. The Tartans face Pitt in the opener 
while Duquesne takes on Penn State in the 
finale. A few years ago this game would 
have been played at Panther Hollow lake 
and been about as exciting as a calculus 
exam. This matchup now has all the 
elements of a classic rivalry.
Last year Pitt won the championship so 
C-MU feels that they are the team to beat. 
The nearness of the schools is also another 
reason for this rivalry. Players from the 
teams know each other so they play harder 
against their friendly enemies. Because the 
game will be played at the Civic Arena 
there is added incentive to look good. The 
players will definitely be “up” and it 
should be an exciting, well played game. 
This will also be excellent exposure for the 
team because of its prime location and 
many more fans can attend. This double- 
header should be a great shot-in-the-arm 
for local hockey for many years to come.
The quality of play exhibited by the 
Tartans is truly remarkable. There are no 
scholarships, of course, and the team pays 
for its own equipment. They practice only
by Eric Johnson
The inexperienced and injury ridden 
Tartans dropped their sixth and seventh 
matches of the season to Case-Western 
Reserve and Waynesburg College.
Coach Paul Stevas’ grapplers have been 
plagued by injuries all season and this has 
meant that his predominantly freshman 
squad must try to make up for forfeited 
bouts. Although emotionally up to the 
task, the young Tartans are grossly lacking 
in experience and in many cases, overall 
ability. Against Case the Tartans had to 
forfeit four bouts. C-MU won in the 118 
pound class, but as the match progressed 
C-MU’s inexperience became evident. One 
freshman was wrestling competitively for 
the first time, and three others were only 
in their first year. Countless times during
about three hours a week because of the 
lack of available ice. That the team’s level 
of play is so high is evidence of the player’s 
love of the game.
A player who typifies the team is Mike 
Kenworthy. Kenworthy is from New 
England, where hockey is king, but noted 
that Pittsburgh will soon be producing its' 
own good players from the budding junior 
hockey leagues.
Kenworthy, not very big at 5’10” and 
130 pounds, relies on skating and finesse. 
“We just skate and keep our heads when 
more physical teams take a run at us,”
Mike said. He also noted that C-MU,
because of its high academic reputation, is 
not a jock school and acquires athletes of a 
more cerebral nature.
The Tartans can possibly be compared 
with the Montreal Canadiens, a team noted 
for its fast skaters and intelligent players. 
The Canadiens have won the Stanley Cup 
five times in the past eight years, so this is 
high praise, indeed. While the Tartans
won’t be playing for the Stanley Cup, they 
will be playing for the championship of 
Pittsburgh, so come out and see what
promises to be a fine evening of hockey.
the match the C-MU coaches shouted 
instructions, but they were of little aid 
since many of the wrestlers didn’t know 
how to execute the instructions.
Although the Tartan grapplers are 
lacking in experience and ability, they have 
an overwhelming wealth of spirit and deter­
mination. These qualities may not be 
winning matches but they add spark and 
excitement to a losing season. The men on 
the team are gaining experience week by 
week and also are maintaining a sense of 
pride and commitment for the team. But 
more important, they are having a good 
time. It may not be long before the Tartans 
gain in knowledge and ability and build a 
winning spirit.
IM Basketball 
Underway
by Dave List
Two weeks ago, C-MU’s intramural 
basketball season got underway. This 
season there are approximately five 
hundred players participating on fifty-six 
teams.
There are three leagues consisting of the 
majors (thirteen teams), the intermediates 
(twenty-eight teams), and the minors 
(fifteen teams). With this arrangement, 
anybody who wanted to play basketball 
could find a team on which he would be 
with players of the same caliber. No matter 
what your ability is, intramural basketball 
is a good way to get some exercise, to have 
some fun, and to get rid of your aggres­
sions (while the referee happens to be 
looking elsewhere).
Though it is not yet halfway through 
the season, some teams have already begun 
to take command of their divisions. In the 
majors, Salt & Pepper has quickly rattled 
off five straight victories with no defeats. 
However, Radic’s Raiders and Scrow are 
also undefeated with 3-0 and 2-0 records, 
respectively. Black Magic (4-1) and Wild 
Bunch (3-1) are always tough and will 
provide much competition throughout the 
rest of the season.
In the intermediate league, few teams 
are out of the race. The Purple Avengers 
and Morewood Gups are trying to move 
away from the rest of the Warriors 
Division. In the Bullets Division, PKT “A” 
has already earned a 4-0 record with the 
Polish Patriots staying close by with a 3-0 
record. The Booahs have taken an early 
lead in the Hawks Division with a 3-0 
record, followed by Black Magic Bloods 
(2-0), PKA “A” (2-0), and the Buds (3-1). 
There is a five team race in the Lakers 
Division with Over the Hill (3-1), Purple 
Gnurples (3-1), Oakland A’s (2-1), Players 
(2-1), and Shrinks (1-1), all fighting it out.
Few games have been played as yet in 
the minor league. However, the PKT 
Rhinos (2-0) and Indecision Industries 
(1-0) have taken the lead in the Bucks 
Division while Skid Row (2-0) and Happy 
Jacks (1-0) have the honors in the Bull 
Division.
On one of those many free nights you 
all have, why don’t you stop over at the 
gymnasium and watch the game? For 
instance, at 8:00, Thursday night, Salt & 
Pepper and Radic’s Raiders go at it in a 
battle of the unbeaten. It should be a good 
game. I think you’ll be amazed at the 
quality of play.
Basketball Not 
Only IM Sport
by Pete Hoysan
There are other intramural sports 
starting this week besides basketball. They 
include bridge, wrestling, handball, and 
water basketball. Alpha Tau Omega will 
again be defending its wrestling champion­
ship. With the loss of their great star E.J. 
Birdy, the Faculty Bulldogs could be hard 
pressed by Hands-and-Balls for the hand­
ball championship. If the play in water 
polo is any indication of what is to come in 
water basketball, Beta Theta Pi “A” and 
the Dolphins should have two exciting 
matches in battling for the intramural 
championship.
The next sports in the intramural 
program will be singles and doubles table 
tennis and call pool. Entries for these are 
due Tuesday, February «S.
PREGNANT?-Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
CaN: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
A Tartan iceman at full speed.
Wrestling
Photo by Henry Collins
Matmen Drop Seventh

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, February 6, 1973
In an effort to improve the advisory system, 
the Student Policy Committe is compiling 
a book of the most frequently encountered questions and problems 
with their corresponding answers and solutions
Please send any problems and questions 
you have had or know of 
to the TARTAN office, Room 50 Skibo 
by campus mail.
The C-MU
Activities
Board
Presents
In Concert
TRANQUILITY
From England
Friday, February 9, 8:30 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom
FREE... With CMU ID 
$*1.50 Without
Tickets at Skibo 
Information Desk
