. '7
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE 
UNION, 9:30 P. M.
C. C. C. ENTERTAINERShrnBgir Ätan
GAMMA GAMMA GAMMA 
SCHOLARSHIP BRIDGE 
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 2:30
VOL. XIX Wo. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1925
The Week 
in the 
World’s News
1. The French Budget.
2. Muscle Shoals Again.
3. A Successor to Sam Gompers.
Again the Senate anti House are 
thrown into a battle of words over 
the exact meanings and connotations 
of the French budget which was laid 
before the Parliament the other day 
and in which the debts of France to 
Great Britain and the United States 
were other obligations of the gov- 
liabilities as were other obligations 
ernment. A memoranda attached, 
written by M. elemental, Min­
ister of Finance, states the new 
position of’ the majority. They claim 
that we were all Allies during the 
war, all fighting for a common cause 
with unity of action and command and 
therefore common justice calls for 
a pooling of war debts and resources 
with general deductions of man loses 
and territory devasted. France feels 
that since she has lost so many men 
and has had so much territory in­
vaded and as we on the other hand 
are so much wealthier In man power 
and resources—as well as Great Brit­
ain—our should be the larger share.
Such a position, while very new 
and seemingly Without precendent 
has much in its favor as a basis foi 
discussion but it was obviously an 
undiplomatic measure for the French 
government to be quite so drastic 5n 
applying t£e new principles and strik­
ing off their books these liabilities. 
France has for a time j*een having j 
trouble balancing her budget, and IT.- 
is wondered whether, from a financial j 
position it wasn’t good business to j 
do tbis in order that their foreign j 
and domestic loans might be the | 
stronger.
GEN. ASSEMBLY 
PLANNED FOR 
NEXT TUESDAY
Roy H. Legate Executive 
Secretary of the Student 
Friendship Fund Will In­
troduce Drive
'OBIE" WILL WARBLE
To Present Football Sweaters 
and Insignia If They 
Arrive on Time
Muscle Shoals is again, in the cen-1 
ter of controversy with two bills, the ! 
Norris Bill and that sponsored by 
Senator Underwood—this it Is claimed 
has the encouragement of the Presi­
dent. The Ford offer has withdrawn 
in pique.
Senator Norris proposes govern­
ment ownership and management not 
more than 25,000 primary horsepower 
to be used for the production of fer­
tilizer—this to be under the Depart­
ment of Agriculture and in an ex­
perimental stage—the main business 
has to do with the production, ¿ale, 
and distribution of power. The dams 
which are in the process of construc­
tion are to be finished and used, look­
ing forward to large scale transmis­
sion and distribution.
The Underwood Bill provides gov­
ernment o’.vnership—the Government 
may take the plant over •in five days 
time for War purposes—the opera­
tors of the plant are to produce '40,-
000 tons of fertilizer a year and sell 
it at not over 8% profit—the Secre­
tary of "War to lease the plant to a 
private concern for a period of not. 
over fifty , years on the above and 
other power conditions if not leased 
by July 1, 1925 a government corpor­
ation to run and manage it.
Thus we have the Senator from 
Kansas—Norris — where little fertil­
izer is demanded advocating govern­
ment ownership for power purposes 
with the power interests fighting 
whereas the Senator from Alabama— 
Underwood—where fertilizer i s in 
great demand advocates private leas­
ing for fertilizer purposes with the 
opposition of the fertilizer companies 
hut the farmers and the South back­
ing it with the East remaining neu­
tral. Th?s general feeling seems to 
be that the Underwood “Bill has the 
Administrative favor and will win out 
in the end.
Much interest is aroused in the 
appointment of the new president of 
the American Federation of Labor, 
William Green, recretary treasurer of 
the United Mine Workers since 1913 
two years in the Ohio State Senate, 
a miner himself and from a family of 
miners, a Baptist, Elk and Mason, who 
was chosen by the Executive Commit­
tee to fill the place of Samuel Gom­
pers until the general election in Oc­
tober.
Sam Gompers was associated with 
the Federation from its founding, 
gave it forty three years of his life, 
and was the autocrat in this organ­
ization. His withering scorn and sar­
casm soon put his opponents to flight, 
his personal dominence was always 
felt and eventually carried the day.
But not so with Green, a man risen 
from the ranks because he has pleas­
ed his associates, he will give more 
freedom to new speech., new ideas 
will be more readily exchanged and 
accepted and the dogmatic labor pol­
icy of the past will follow more close­
ly the trend of the times. Gompers 
was neutral in all the cooperative 
movements, took no part in politics, 
had no program and was not aggres­
sively active but all these newer phas­
es will soon be given a fair trial.
Samuel Gompers, who led the or­
ganization for forty-three years has 
gone. His personal magnetism, force, 
zeal, and dominance has likewise 
gone. The old order changeth, and 
gives way to new men.
The first general assembly of the 
Mew year will be held Tuesday, Jan­
uary1 13, at the Carnegie Music Hall. 
Carnegie is to be honored by the pres­
ence of Roy H. Legate, who will 
speak for a few minutes in behalf 
of the ,Student, Friendship Drive which 
is soon -to be held on the campus.
Mr. Legate is executive secretary 
of the Student Friendship Fund for 
the entire country. He has spent the 
past four years overseas, where ha 
has been endeavoring to better the 
situation presented by the poor, starv­
ing students of Europe. Without 
doubt his wide and varied experience 
will enable him to make an interest­
ing contribution to the program, as 
well as to boost the cause of the 
Student Friendship Drive.
It is customary at this time of year 
to present athletic sweaters to those 
students whom the athletic council 
considers worthy to receive them. 
Buddy Overend, however, reports that 
the sweaters have not yet come in, 
and unless they do within the next 
week they will not be presented at 
the next assembly.
Ben Lubic, basketball coach, will 
instill a little pep into the student 
body bj- talking for a few moments 
about Carnegie’s prospects for bas­
ket ball this season.
Obie Newman will put a little spicc 
into the program with a few vocal 
numbers. He will be accompanied by 
Grace Broderick at the piano. A few 
selections by a popular campus or­
chestra will conclude the program.
The programs for all the Generai 
Assemblies this year have been in 
charge of Obie Newman and have 
been very successful. They have been 
planned especially to suit, the tastes 
of the student body. Judging from, the 
number of the audience they have 
filled the bill. Be sure to bo present 
and remain until the Alma Mater Is 
sung, for even if you do miss lunch 
or are late for a "one thirty,” it only 
happens once every month.
‘A Pair of Spectacles" and “The Fan" GORGEOUS BALL I!.! 
To Be Revived By Drama Department PLANED FOR *
FIRST CHAPEL OF YEAR AT 
LITTLE THEATER THURS.
The drama department will present 
three plays in the next three weeks, 
before the mid-season lull during the 
final examinations.
"The Fan” will resume for a run of 
four nights after the interruption of 
the Christmas recess. The next week 
will see a revival of the French play, 
"A Pair of Spectacles,” which was pre­
sented for two nights in the first part 
of December. The followiug week 
will see the first performance of the 
Plebes, in "Iphigenia.” an ancient 
Greek play by Euripedes.
Those who have not seen "The 
Fan,” the amusing Italian Harlquin- 
ade, during its ' pre-holiday run will 
have.another opportunity when it re­
sumes tonight for three, possibly four, 
public performances. It will be pre­
sented tonight, and Wednesday and 
Friday evenings for the public, with 
the possibility of a matinee Friday
afternoon. Thursday evening a pri­
vate performance will be given for the 
Drama League.
"The Fan," written by Goldoni, an 
Italian, is a comedy writtep around 
the attempts of a bashful youth to con­
vey a token of his affection to a fair 
young maid, whereupon man/ amus­
ing complications arise, 
j The next week a translation of Sid­
ney Grundy’s'French play, "A Pair 
J of Spectacles," will be presented after 
I a lapse of a month. The production 
j will be given the evenings of January* 
| 12, 13 and 11. at the Little Theater, 
i The action of the play, as the title iin- 
| plys, moves around a pair of spec- 
I fades, and concerns the rather tragic 
I event of the changing of a kind heart- 
! ed and credulous old man into a 
| soured synic by a confidence game, 
j The week before the finals will give 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ARABIAN NIGHT
Oriental Tapestries, Bagdad 
Music and Arabian Incense 
Will Provide Atmosphere 
For Elaborate Arts Ball
GAY ENTERTAINMENT
Costume Designs to be Dis­
played in Small Exhibition 
Rooms in a Few Days
The first chapel exercises fol- "J* 
*:• lowing the Christmas hoiltdays * 
will he held in the Little Thea- * 
ter Thursday at 12:30. Dr. -5- 
•I* Thomas It. Thoburn of Christ *>• 
Methodist ICpiscopal Church, will •!• 
probably bo the speaker. *5*
*;• Dr. Thoburn has been invited 
v to speak, and it is hoped that * 
v he will accept. He is one of the
* most prominent ministers in v
* Pittsburgh church circles, and is *1* 
?I* pastor of one of the largest *
congregations in the local Meth- * 
•I* odist conference. His message •!- 
*5* will be of a type that should •!* 
insure a maximum attendance. * 
•!• No special musical program rj* 
'!• has been arranged' because of *»? 
•I- the fact that the intervention 
•I* of the Christinas recess. *
DRIVE TO AID 
EUROPEANS IN 
¡UNIVERSITIES
SIX WOMEN CALLED1 
AT M. M. ASSEMBLY
By Pi Sigma Tau, Journalists’ 
Honorary, For Work on 
Publications
INITIATION THIS WEEK
Puppet’s Prom Issue 
To Be Out This Month
Many Notable Alumni In­
cluded Among Contributors
Puppet appears again In January 
with the ever welcome Prom num­
ber. This issue is dedicated to the 
glorification of the Prom, one of our 
noblest institutions. Special features 
of this number are the several con­
tributions by former Puppet Staff 
men.
The cover design is by Larry Stults 
and Ted Ttepplier. These are the boys 
who are turning out the snappy com­
mercial art work in Chicago, and the 
cover they have done for the Prom 
number is a corker.
As for the interior, such a dazzling 
array of wise cracks has been turned 
in this time that the editors, like 
Darwin, had to turn to natural selec­
tion to determine the survival of the 
fittest. Besides the written copy, this 
issue boasts of several center spreads 
and full page cartoons by Barney 
Goldstein and Dick Beatty. Barney 
was an old timer at Carnegie, Art 
editor of the Puppet some years ago, 
and since then he has been nationally 
advertised by his intensely human 
drawings of exotic women. His name 
ought to sell this issue to thousands.
With thesé rather unsual attrac- 
rrontinupd on Pae« Four.)
At the Margaret Morrison Assembly 
Tuesday, December 16, Pi Sigma Tau, 
the women’s honorary journalistic so­
ciety, called its pledges for 1925. The 
assembly was in charge of the mem­
bers of the honorary who selected the 
new members.
The women chosen were Dorothy 
Diamond, Rose Martin, Margaret Me- 
Fall. Harriet Merwin, Estelle Gar- 
baldi and Nora Willets. These young 
women have been active in class af­
fairs, and have done very good work 
on Carnegie publications like the Tar­
tan. Puppet, Song Book and Shilling. 
They have also maintained a high 
scholastic standing.
The charter members selected the 
pledges after a careful review of their 
records. The minimum requirements 
being two years' service on one, or 
one year’s service on two publications. 
A grade of B must be made in scholas­
tic work. The members can be 
chosen from either Margaret Morrison 
College or the College of Fine Arts.
The initiation will bo held this Week 
in Margaret Morrison. Plans are be­
ing made to make it as solemn and as 
secret as is becoming an organization 
based on such high standards. Tho 
rules of the society are that the mem­
bers are called the last'assembly pre­
ceding tho Christmas holidays, and 
the initiation take place the first week 
of the new year.
Pi Sigma Tau was organized last 
year by the Pi Delta Epsilon, the 
men’s national publication honorary, 
the purpose being to reward those 
women who had done meritorious 
work along journalistic lines. At 
that time eight charter members were 
selected, six of whom are in school 
this year. Membership in this society 
is flne of tho highest honors a Car- 
iiegie woman can achieve.
POST HOLIDAY DANCES 
START SATURDAY NITE
Now that all the nobles and ignobles 
have passed decision favorably on the 
establishing of regular Saturday 
night dances, this week-end will ush­
er in the first of these affairs. The 
song-book committee is sponsor for 
this opening dance, while the Union 
and the Faculty Club Rooms will fur­
nish ample space for the distribution 
j of the numerous pairs of feet.
| The Collegiate Imps have been se­
cured to furnish the necessary mu- 
j sic and the tax, only $1.25 is well 
; within the limits of all interested.
| Special features of this affair are 
! several musical stunts to be furnish- 
j ed by the recently organized Carnegie 
Clef Club. This will be the initial ap­
pearance of this group who aim to 
foster and encourage musical activi- 
| ties on the campus. New Carnegie 
j Songs will be introduced by those 
! who know how, to complete an un- 
! usually varied program.
Results of Optical Experiments With 
Caesium Disclosed By Nathanson
Prof. J. B. Nathanson, of the Dep’l 
of Physics, lias recently disclosed the 
results of investigations which he 
has been pursuing during the past 
two or three years, in regard to the 
optical constants of Caesium. A com­
plete discussion of his work will ap­
pear in the Physical Review, and at 
the last meeting of the Physics Col­
loquium, Prof. Nathanson gave an 
illustrated lecture describing his ex­
periments.
Carnegie Is essentially a school of 
technical instruction, and in compar­
ison with certain other schools such 
as Harvard and the University of 
Chicago, pays but small attention to 
scientific research. To be sure, the 
Metalligurical Research Department, 
recently instituted, is intended “de­
li' for this purpose, but before it was 
established at Carnegie, the encour­
agement given to experimental sci­
ence and engineering was rather 
small. Consequently, such accom­
plishments as those of Prof. Nathan­
son are to he noted with interest.
Opaque materials possess optical 
properties in common with glass and 
other transparent substances. Dur­
ing recent years, the alkali metals, 
by virtue of their Interesting physi­
cal and chemical properties, have 
been the subject of many investiga­
tions. The optical constants are es­
pecially. interesting, for they indicate 
an index of refraction less than unity, 
and a very high rellecting power in 
the case of sodium and potassium. 
For the determination of the optica, 
properties of the metallic elements, 
a smooth bright surface is necessary, 
and is quite easily obtained when 
dealing with the common metals. How­
ever, obstacles are encountered when 
an .attempt is made to study the al­
kali metals, of which Caesium is one: 
because of their tendency to oxidize. 
This gives rise to the necessity of 
(Continued on Page Two.
JUNIOR PROM 0RCH. 
FAVORED BY PRINCE
Oxley’s Musicians Pleased 
Discriminating Ear of 
Edward of Wales
DATE SET IS JAN. 30
The famous Oxley’s orchestra of 
Now York, probably host known for 
their engagement as the official dance 
orchestra for H. R. I-I., the Prince of 
Wales, upon his recent tour of tho 
IT. S. and their New York season’s 
engagement upon the Cinderella Roof, 
have been engaged for the Junior 
Prom. January 30, 1925 at tho Wil­
liam Penn. ,
Although His Royal Shyness, tho 
Prince of Wales came to U. S. solely 
for the purpose of advertising tho 
clothing products of tho British gnr- 
mont guild or to elude tho proverbial 
English siren, he was promptly caught 
in tho arms, lap, or hairnet of our 
American magnet and whisked away 
to the nearest "ballroom whore ho 
shook a nimble hoof despite his in­
tended bachelorhood.
The Prince accordingly engaged 
Oxley’s orchestra who played at n 
number of His Highness’ tea dances 
including the appearance at the Roy­
al Court. Montreal, Canada. If tho 
Prince is a criterion of dance music, 
the Prom is already a success.
The entire seventeenth floor of the 
William Penn, the most luxurious and 
elaborate ball room In Pittsburgh has 
been reserved, making possible tho 
accommodating of hundreds of pat­
rons, both students and alumni.
The favors have boon already high­
ly ton tod, however, the Important fac­
tor has boon disgracefully omlttod- 
tlioy are positively unoxploslvo. Tho 
Prom committee have given tliolr as­
surance that the favors, by virtue of 
their malleability, nonoorroalvonoss 
and tenacity, arq so simple a child 
can oporate. The favors are favor­
able; the cuisine—doloctable; and 
the orchestra Is simple captivating.
The preordained success of the 
prom' is duo to the excellent cooper­
ation and efforts of tho Prom com­
mittee.
Alladin’s Genii lias become the 
“genus loci” of the Art School. To 
the spirit of the lamp every one prays 
for guidance, that the celebration of 
the gay and colorful Arabian Night 
may be marked by fitting ceremony; 
by sound of Joyous music, Indian lovo 
songs and gorgeous costumes of the 
Orient.
On the night of February (5. the 
School of Design will be transformed 
by busy genii into pavilions and gar­
dens like to arouse envy in even the 
generous Jieart of Ilaroun al Raschid. 
In great dim apartments, hung with 
glowing tapestrioB from the vale of 
Cashmere, and strewn with rich car­
pets from Anciont. Bagdad, soft, seduc­
tive music will sound; throb of horns, 
click of castinets and clash of cym­
bals. Through tho scented rooms, 
perfumed by costliest Inoonso of Ara­
bia, will whirl tho figures In tlvo dflnce, 
slim dark-eyod Sidis and Morgianas, 
gleaming with jowols, pearls from 
Ophlr and rubles from Coylon.
Other diversion is being arranged. 
A gay, fantastic entertainment, on 
which the groat Commandor of tho 
Faithful himself would not frown, will 
bo presontod for tho amusement of 
tho chosen children, in tliolr realm of 
everlasting Joy. Thoro will bo, more­
over,' a feast of tho most oxotlo doll- 
cacles, ltko to that with which Slnbab 
regaled his guests.
Tho choice of costumes for this 
event Is tho consideration occupying 
tho attention of almost ovory one, and 
Inspiration for their design will soon 
be available. Every member of tho 
costume design committee has boon 
busy at rosoarch during tho holidays, 
and they promise to exhibit fascinat­
ing and gorgeous designs within a few 
days. 'Phis display will bo hold, as is 
customary, In tho small exhibition 
rooms of the Art School.
The social committee Is trying to 
get a list of llioao who wish to attend 
the ball, but who have not yot made 
an ongngemonl for It. Tho toa dancos 
were Invaluable in getting tho new 
people acquainted, but there are yot 
many who do not have partnors for 
the festivities of tho One Arabian 
Night. Tho committee asks that those 
who wish to employ It. In tliolr behalf 
make known their desire to any one 
of tho committee. A mooting can then 
bo arranged with whomever tho client 
desires,
DANCE FOR M. /VI. PLEBES 
WILL BE GIVEN ON JAN. 9
SCIENCE STAG DATE 
SET FOR MARCH 14
Committee of Interested and 
Active Men Appointed to 
Manage Event
ROSSINI IS CHAIRMAN
The 1025 Science Stag will bo hold 
on March 14, instead of Fobruary 14 
as Indicated in tho Carnegie Hand­
book. Don Gardner has appointed the 
committee which Is to have charge of 
arrangements, and plans aro rapidly 
assuming definito form.
The committee Is bonded by Ros­
sini, a mombor of Kappa Epsilon, 
Tau Bota PI, business manager of 
tho Song Book commltteo, assodato 
odi tor of the Tartan, a mombor of 
last; year’s Science Stag committoo, 
and a member of tho Clef, the musi­
cal honorary.
Tho commltteo itself Is composed 
of men Troni the throe upper classes 
of S’olonco School and consists of: 
J. M. O'Connor, a mombor of Kappa 
Epsilon, Delta Skull, Student Council, 
the 11)25 l’rom committoo, and treasur­
er of tho Selonce Senate; M. O. Bit* 
nor, a member of Tau Bota PI and 
j prosidolit of tho A. S. C. 18.’; H. N. 
Smith, a member of Beta Thota PI, 
Tau Bota PI, the Druids and last 
year's Tennis Captain; W. C. Cl. Win­
ning, mombor of PI Delta Epsilon, the 
Castle, Assodate Editor of the Car* 
j nogle Technical Journal, and Now» 
Editor of the Tartan ; Paul Bow run 
a member of Bota Thota PI, Tliota 
Tau, varsity tennis team, and chair­
man of last year's Soph Hop coininlt- 
leo; 10. J. Cerniti, librarian of the 
Banfi, member (if the Song Booic 
Staff, and a member of last year's 
Science Stag committee; L. .10. Smith, 
a member of Sigma IQpsllon Phi, PI 
Mota Gamma S’donco Club, and var* 
(Contlnuod on Pago Two.
Students Take High 
Honors in Contest
Music Department to 
Present Recital Sun.
Little Theater Will be Scene 
of Pleasing Musical 
Program
On Sunday, January 11, at 8:30 p. 
m. in the Little Theater the students 
of the Music Department will present 
their first recital of the new year. A 
pleasing and varied program has been 
arranged which will well repay those 
who attend. The performance is free 
to the public and it is hoped that there 
will be a representative audience. 
There have been several such reci­
tals during the fall which have been 
moderately successful.
The program follows:
1. Greig. Sonata for Violin and Pi­
ano, Op. 45.
Allegretto especcivo al la Roman 
zen.
Allegretto espressivo al la Roman- 
Raymond Bandl, Alice Nelson
2. Betthoven, Variations in C minor.
Helen Szafran.
2. Beethoven. Variations In C minor, 
piagarmi.”
Marcello. Recilatlo ed Aria "Quel- 
Ia fiamma die m’acccnao,”
Kiz/.ie Murdock 
4. f'iii. Intermezzo;
Rachmaninoff. Barcarolle, Op. 1.0, 
No.
Rachmaninoff. Valse, Op. }0, No. 
2.
Martha Hanlon 
i>. Vleuxtemps. Violin Concerto in 
D minor.
Andante—moderato.
Adagio rellgioso.
Allegro. )
Paul Kleyle 
Accompanists 
Nancy Fast, Matthew FreyI , .' ¦¦¦ .
Maggie Murph Sophs expoct to en­
tertain a largo crowd of good little 
M. INI. Plebes at a dance in the Union 
on January 9 from nine to one. The 
enterprising committee of Sopho­
mores, headed by Elizabeth Lessor, 
social chairman, have secured the 
Steel City Collegians to furnish the 
music. This orchestra is well-known 
at Carnegie and should prove a spe­
cial attraction.
This dance is an annual event, al­
ways anticipated with much pleasure 
by both Sophomores and Freshmen. 
It was hoped that it could be held 
much sooner, but no date was open. 
However it is a pleasure all the great­
er for being deferred as the members 
of the two classes a’l'Q now much bet­
ter acquainted than they were earl­
ier in the year.
The Sophomores hope that all the 
M. M. Freshmen will respond to their 
cordial invitation and attend the 
j dance which is their biggest function 
j next to the Sophomore Women’s Ban 
quet.
Recently Held by the Beaux 
Arts Institute of Design
Four students of interior decorat­
ing, Including Miss Mildred M. Too- 
good, of 1543 Lowrlo street, North 
Side, and Stanley S. Stark, of 102 
Erwin street, Duquesne, Pa., won high 
honors in a recent judgment conduc­
ted by the Beaux Arts Institute of De­
sign in New York city,
Miss Toogood, who is a senior in 
the ¿Department of Applied Art. of 
the College of Fine Arts, won a First 
Mention in a problem in archeology. 
Stark, a junior in the Applied Art 
Department, was awarded a First 
Mention in tho problem for the de­
sign of a mural.
In addition to the honors won by 
the local students, Merdon R. Busier, 
of Williamsport, Pa., and J. Arthur 
Ropp, students in the Department of 
Applied Art at Carnegie Tech, won 
Second Mentions in a problem to de­
sign a dining room.
The competition Included work sub­
mitted from . leading institutions 
throughout the country.
Ambitious Boy Who Saw the Follies 
Wants to Write About the Dollies
(Bye Me)
Editor of the Tartan,
Dear Sir,
Just about this time last year I j 
wrote you regarding me writing the 
articles for the front page of your In­
testinal paper but as you already had I 
another guy what couldn't write worth | 
a hang but that Is neither bore nor I 
there and obviously had the Job thru j 
some kind of pull or politics and novor 
answered the above I tliot I'd let Jt. 
drop but now 1 got« lots of Inspira­
tion I thot I’d write again.
I got a lot of ideas for articles art! 
I been around quite a bit what with J 
having saw the Follies this week and ! 
Gilda Gray last week which practl-1 
cally don't leave nothing to see. By j 
that I mean that what Flo ZIegfield i 
says he does is glorify the American j 
girl and Gilda Gray klnda exhilerat.es 
the American boy so they aint nothing!
I aint seen but the cruclflctlon of 
both of them.
f also got another recommendation 
Which I have been keeping dark for 
tho obvious reasons exposed herein- 
under, Vhu doubtless remember the 
time Bllllo Burke was hero not so 
long ago and f know you saw the 
show because I asked your girl for 
a date that night and she said no 
that she had a Important engagement 
with you which she would not break 
so it must of boon at least a $3.30 
Investment per bead. Well after the 
show I pretty nearly had a dale with 
Bllllo only when I asked her to gc 
on a party she said "no!"
In anticipation of getting the 
signment for these stories I got an 
outline of topics worked out whidi I 
will adhere to strictly and to tlv 
point. 1 want to warn you now thaf 
I am liable to sell them to tho Satur 
Continued on Page Four.)
Student Friendship Drive to 
Raise Funds For Needy 
Students in Europs — Talk 
Will Usher in Campaign
DRIVE BEGINS JAN. 13
Members of the Teknon Club 
Will Again Solicit Funds 
From Student Body
The Student Friendship Drive will 
be openod at the regular assembly 
on January 13 with an appropriate 
talk by a well known speaker. Ho 
will present a word picture of tho1 
great needs of our fellow students 
in other lands who are struggling 
against odds for an education.
Tho drive this year Is again being 
conducted by tho Teknon Club, and 
a greater success than last year is 
the aim of tho organization. Johnny 
Carr, who is in charge of the cam­
paign, has announced Ills committee ’ 
which is as follows: General Chair­
man, Johnny Carr; Secretary-troasur-• 
er, Mary Stuempile; Chairman of 
Sales in Arts, Peg Taylor; Chairman 
of Sales in Science, Eddie Wright; 
Chairman of Sales In Industries, Bill 
Gooby; Chairman of .'7SA In Mar­
garet Morrison, Barbara White.
Carnogio students, for tho past two 
years have joined with thousands of 
other college students In this country, 
in giving financial aid to their less 
fortunate follow-students In lOuropo. 
This cooperative union between tho 
mon and women In European and 
American colleges and universities Is 
very definitely creating a bond of 
good-will stronger than treaties, its 
fnr-ronchlng effect; cannot bo empha­
sized too strongly.
In .11)20 tho World’s Student Chris­
tian Federation organized the Euro* 
poan Student Rollol! and called upon 
the students Of the world to cooper­
ate In meeting a desperate need 
among the university students of Eu­
rope. Each year nince then thousands 
of dollars have boon sent over to Eu­
rope, to onable the students to “car­
ry on.”
Hundreds of rofugoo students aro 
scattered over Europe, Through tho 
Student Friendship Fund they have 
been organized and given work, so 
that they can help themselves.
Tho Student Relief Fund uses two 
methods In helping the students: one 
Is to enable them to earn money for 
their expenses; the other Is to put 
at tliolr disposal the necessities of 
life cheaper than they are retailed. 
In many countries the students hav.v 
organized self-help or cooperative on-' 
torprlsos, These enterprises Include* 
dormitories, feeding kitchens, coop-« 
eratlvo book stores, employment bu­
reaus, students' hospitals, all kinds, 
of repair shops, and printing off,loos-, 
where the students print their owiv 
books. All tlioso ontorprlsos arc spon­
sored and aided by tho Student 
Friendship Fund.
Lust year 590 schools and colleges 
In the U. S. contributed to the fund 
which made It possible for thousands 
of students In Europe and many for­
eigner« in this country to remain at 
their universities. This year It Is es­
timated that tho need cannot be mot 
< Continued on Pago Two.)
Noted Scientist Will 
Lecture This Week
Physicist!Who is "Weighing 
the Earth” Will Speak
Dr. P. R. I-Ieyl, the Physicist at tho 
bureau of standards, who is at present 
engaged in the project of "reweigliing 
the earth,” will deliver a series of 
three public lectures at the Carnegio 
Union on Tuesday, Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings of this week. Tho 
general subject of the series is “Fun­
damental Concepts in Physics in the 
Light of Recent Discoveries.” rfhe 
lectures will be given at 8:30 each 
evening and no tickets will bo re­
quired for admission.
Local scientists, teachers and stu­
dents should bo especially interested 
in hearing this noted physicist speak. 
Dr. I-Ieyl is In chargo of tho govern­
ment commission which lias boon au­
thorized to make redetermination of 
tho constant of gravitation. For tho 
past six months, he has been working 
In a cave, thirty-five foot underneath 
the buildings of the bureau 
of standards, and even yot tho 
real oxporimenl. has not yet begun. 
Previous to this time,. It required al­
most a year to Install tho, extromely 
delicate apparatus so that It would bo 
free from all extraneous Influences.
Tho last determination of this con­
stant was made about thirty years ago 
and was accurate to within about one- 
ilftloth of one per cent. Dr. Iieyl 
hopes to obtain a precision of one five- 
hundredth of a per cent.
The constant of gravitation is used 
in the determination of the weight of 
the earth and the planets, and plays 
nil Important part in many astronomi­
cal calculations, so that very precise" 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1925
ffi Carnai? tartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in thePostoffice of Pittsburgh as second-classmatter.
FRED C. SMITH..
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
...Schenley 9122
•F.-D. ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
A. E. ICROGHE. C. FRAZIER
L. H. Harris
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. F. Carson R. R. SitzlerD. A. Gardner
FRED T. PHELPS
MANAGING EDITOR
W. WINNING .... 
V. B. SMITH..........
NEWS EDITORS
...Schenley 9070 
..Franklin 5547-J
J. M. GOSS..............
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
' R. L. Lepper, M. Hollinshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand. 
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella, M. Cohen, S. Weil. F. L. Grant, E. 
Rosß, H. L. Myers, L. V. Twohig, F. Finn, Wingold Kelly, F. A. Kold.
J. CHRISTOFF ...
ATHLETIC EDITOR
— Schenley 9285
.Margaret McFall, J
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams 
William Bernardi, B. Kristof.
D. M. Davidson,
W. M. GIBSON....
BUSINESS MANAGER
...Schenley 9211
N. C. WESER ....
ADVERTISING MANAGER
...Schenley 9122
ü. MOSKOVITZ ..
CIRCULATION MANAGER
-----Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bäuerle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Carl. B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. 
Ivandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore. R. L. Grlbble.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy o£ 
Managing Editor for the make up.
this paper; the
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the s^dent 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Office—Room 5-A, Industries "Building. Office hours—Daily 12-’30- 
1:20.
M
F 1W n R Y OF TRI-GAM SCHOl ARSHIP RESULTS OF OPTICAL EX- CHEMICAL ENGINEERS TO
L ill U K I Uf Lmvollll PERI M ENTS WITH CAESIUM OBTAIN A. I. C. E. CHARTERBRIDGE THIS SATURDAY „ , — p , , .-----(Continued From Pase One.) After n period of enforced inactivi-
preparing the metal uuder vacuum, ty, the iarneglo chapter of the Amer- 
niul of keeping it ’out of contact with ican Institute of Chomical Engineers 
air during observations. In this casej hold its first meeting of the year on 
use was made of TU "Caesium mirror.*’ I December IS, 1924. At this time, the
CARNEGIE IS 
PERPETUATED
Tile Gamma Gamma Gamma S'orori-i 
ty will hold a bridge party in ¡Margar­
et IMornson Recreation Hall, Satur­
day afternoon, January tenth. TheTo quoto Dr. Nathansou: The cae-hours are iron. 2:.!0 to 5:00 p. m. slum mim,r mls pre,)(ireil b}. flnillR
VI» I.- lwwltv.A i.' Pai. Kn.. .in 11. .Memorial Window Dedicated 
at Creich Church, Scotland 
—Designed and Executed 
by Percy B. Bacon
| This bridge is for the benefit of the 
> sorority scholarship fund. The tick- 
i ets are fifty cents or two dollars a 
• table.
It is hoped that a large crowd will j turn out to help this worthy causo. 
! Saturday afternoon seems to bo an 
c
:i glass cell having two optical glass
club made final arrangements for ob* 
taining a charter from the A. 1. C. E. 
enabling it to function as a full stu-
winflows with liquid caesium distilled i dent chapter. After the business meet- 
umler vacuum, the metal being al-! ing, Professor Weitz gave a short talk
lowed to solidify.
The index of refraction and the co- 
eillcient of absorption were determin­
'd by mentis of the polarimetrie moth-
CUTS
ADDRESS BYplaced in optlcal,eontact with the by-j event scheduled for that time on the 
SMITH campus. potenuse side of a right angle prism.
------------------ .A" "ho o»J»r Uve sos. ¦ s0 th.„ th0 ,,ght cntl,ml om, mA
\ MrtHftrt.1 Window our founder 1 810n °‘ brl<l*S “» '“¡«1» out of 11,0 other. The sl.solutoA Memorial Window to our toundei, oome and brin?: their friends. Those ¡,uiov ,0frnetion wis nht-iined fnurAndrew Carnegie, designed and exe-; *>-- - . .. | maex ot i enact ion \\ as obtained uom
cuted
cated a
Scotl:
At this
interesting address was delivered by
Sir George Adam Smith, who had been j of his many jibes and remonstrances, 
an intimate friend of Andrew Car-1 which were never against religion or !
negie. | God or the life to come, but at what SCIENCE STAG DATE
“By this service of dedication we j he felt rightly or wrongly to be trav S£T FQR MARCH 14
commemorate a man who was at once I esties or caricatures of these. If liis j _____
a great Scotsman and a great Amer- \ judgment, by the way, were sometimes | (Continued From Page One.)
ican; the friend and benefactor 01 j rash and extravagant, this (so f:u‘! sity track toatn: Frank Swaile. a mem-
other nations as well as of bis own,
and the example and pioneer of his
generation along more than one new 
path of philanthropy and service for 
the commonwealth—“a man,” as 
Richard Watson Gilder justly said of 
him, “a man of enormous faculty and 
a great imagination.” Fortunate alike 
in his ancestry, in the place of his 
birth, and in the descipline of pover­
ty in which bis youth was passed, An­
drew Carnegie lived to carry out 
through his manhood the ideals which 
he inherited, and developed, and to
edition of the New Testament—not 
the Old but the New — because ho 
could not conceive of Christ calling 
upon men if they would be His dis­
ciples to forsake father and mother. 
His mind for the moment was . obvi­
ously ablaze with his love and rever­
ence for both his paronts. Or take 
plan, labour, and munificently spend | what recent history has tragically
as 1 was able to see) was because l)61. of Dolt;l Mu, , varsity football 
some noble affection or other high ; SqUad, and Sophomore Senate Repre- 
motive had started his impulsive tern- j sentative, and E. J. Benko. 
per. Take for example liis deciara- ^ Sub-committees will be appointed 
tion oue day to Sir John Ross and my- jn the near future by the chairman, 
self on the need of an expurgated ! \_______________________________
While we are considering the Jiamous improvements which have 
been made around Carnegie Tech, i. e., the Gym, the Carnegie Inn, 
the Tunnel, etc., why not establish a definite system o£ cuts and pub­
lish it in our white, book for the edification and abustf of our stu­
dents? We have now no clearly defined cut rule.
As a matter of fact, the faculty does not recognize them, or 
admit their presence, but nevertheless, every professor will tell that 
there are such things. Students admit it; the faculty admits it, in­
dividually. We should recognize the fact, and decide upon how far 
it is to be countenanced.
There is no system at present. It all depends upon the instruc­
tor. If a man cuts a class consistently, he may be reported to the 
Dean and called up, or he may not be notified and flunk the course, 
lie does not know without experimenting how this particular pro­
fessor regards cutting classes, and by the time he finds out it may 
RTD too late.
How much more simple it would be if we had a rule in the white 
book to this effect:
• “CUTS:
“A student may not cut classes,, that is be absent with­
out excuse, during more than fifteen per cent of his sched­
uled periods in school, during any one semester, in any one 
subject. If he exceeds his allotted number of unexcused 
abscences, his name.wilL be reported to the Dean of the Col­
lege, for faculty action. If he is absent twenty per cent of 
his scheduled periods in any subject during a semester he 
( will automatically be forbidden to take the final examination 
in that subject and must repeat it.
“There shall be no exceptions to this rule.”
I Everything would be simple. A man would know just how 
bften he stood and the penalty for exceeding the allotted number of 
Hits would be so rigorous that it would be very, unusual for a student 
,o do so.
This is a matter which should be decided upon before next 
year. Nearly all the better schools have some clearly defined sys­
tem which is made known to the incoming Freshmen and settles the 
matter once and for all. It would not leave the matter up to the 
different profs, each with a different idea on the subject.
This is a real problem and should be taken up and settled in a 
common sense maimer. _______
Student Calendar
for his fellow-men, with the heart and 
mind with which only that discipline 
could have endowed him;
proved to bo illusions (for the time at 
least) of the speedy establishment of 
Universal Pence, and his mistaken
He was fortunate in his ancestry, ; judgments of the characters and de- 
for they possessed and passed 011 to1 s*£ns those whom he trusted to 
him all tlie fertile contradictions of ! l)rove themselves the chief agents in 
the Scottish nature: thrifty yet ad-1 achieving it. These illustrations and 
venturous: Logical, argumentative, ; uiisjudgments were due to nothing ols«>
and severely practical yet romantic ! than his abounding hopefulness and 
and passionate; emotional (as lie h*9 too generous belief 111 human
DRIVE TO AID EUROPEANS
IN UNIVERSITIES
(Continued From Page Oue.) 
adequately with a budget of less than 
$300.000. of which half should comG 
from the students of America. The 
fields where this help is most needed 
are: Russia, Germany, refugees in 
Central Europe, the Near East, and 
Asia and foreign students in the U. 
S. A.
on what the organization had accom­
plished in the past and what oppor­
tunities the future offered. All stu­
dents of Chemistry and Chemical En­
gineering desiring to affiliato with the 
society should present themselves at 
the next meeting which is scheduled 
for sometime in January.
STUDENTS EMPLOYED
DURING HOLIDAYS * 
ASKED TO REPORT *
•> Students who were employed v 
¦»* during the Christmas holidays 
are requested to report their v 
•I* earnings in the Employment
* Bureau at once. The success
* of this office is dependent to a *
* large extent on the co-opera-
* tion of the students. Will you *
help us to holp you? ?:*
v *
*:• * v * *:• •:* * * * * *
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
011 wido horizons, and in tills I10 Avas 
nn example to us all.
But to faith and hope he added lovo. 
One can only montion and think very 
reverently of his domestic piety, and 
pure love, that carried worship in it, 
more than once records) emotionalj turo- He pew to be a firm believer; for father, mother, wife, and child as £ 
ovon to tears, and withal of a gaiety ,n 1,10 j>,s,ice of the causo of the Al- if tlioy wero his guardian angles. And ' 
and a humor which were among hi* ! lies, and in their duty to fight, for it. then the loyalty of liis friendships!
There were many aspects of re- j Wo thank God, then, for all our 
ligion in which the most religious memory of him, for his personal pit- 
could learn from him: In bin filial on- f rity, his foursquare honesty, his pas- 
joyment of the beauties of nature and 1 ¿ion for justice, Troodom and peuco, 
his reverent feeling of the Power or j his loyalty to the fundamental pieties 
of the time, and to his Mother’s dig-1 Creator; in his pnssion for the of homo and country, and Ills groat: 
nity. refinement, and example of self- diffusion of light and truth and peace, heart, as well as for the frultfuinosf. 
sacrifice ' I atl(^ *n tho lavish use of his wealth I of his plans and works and gifts, the
' Wo know. too. Of. the pootto jnsplr.- 'n "ls| $ve* m 11';1"“ lni")h5*tion and love ot romance lie f." 1,0,10 “ r,,,U' Io!', ^i^oeve,- ,em .methe ahflfiidliw: Konerosltythings are true, honourable, just, pure,! that has dlftused that frultfulnos» ovor 
lovely, and of good report; and in his 1 so many citlos and nations and so- 
firm faith in the progress and high | cured its continuance through the 
destiny of mankind. I-Tls oyo was ever I generations to come.”
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morcwood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. Ml
Preaching (Servioe, 11:00 A. M.
Young Pooplo's Mooting, G:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
SENIOR AND FIVE JUNIORS
ELECTED TO ETA KAPPA NU
The following men have been elec­
ted to Eta Kappa Nit. Senior: D. B. 
Beecher. Juniors: Cavoti, Depue, Har­
rison, Kinghorn, LeBaron.
Eta Kappa Nil is a National Hon­
orary Electrical Engineering Frater­
nity, choosing its members from the 
Junior and Senior Classes of the Elec­
trical Department of the College of 
Engineering. It chooses students who 
have maintained a high scholastic 
standing, exhibited leadership and 
have shown an interest in activities.
The activities of the fraternity are 
numerous. Acting as a committee it 
has charge of the eloctrlcal installa­
tions for Campus Week. The Electri­
cal Smoker, an annual affair is held 
under the auspices of Eta Kappa Nu. 
Each year it. presents a Standard 
Handbook for Electrical Engineers to 
the highest Sophomore of the Electri­
cal Department. The book was award­
ed to air. Kinghorn this year and is 
something for the Sophomore Elec­
tricals to work for.
World’s Largest Picture
The largest picture over painted iff 
the "Paradise" of Tintoretto, which 
hangs in the palace of the doges at 
Venice. It measures 84 feet by 85 feet.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, S P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Grace Reformed Church
Dithrldge and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Blblo Class ...........................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A. M. 
Loaguo of Youth at 6:30 P. M.
own most attractive characteristics. 
We hero know what, he owed, and has 
acknowledged as his debts, to liis 
parents, to his Father's piety and its 
brave revolt from certain doctrines
‘The Fan’
TUESDAY, JANUARY G
...........................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 7
“The Fan”................’.....¦*...........................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, JANUARY 9
c‘The Fan”...........................................................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, JANUARY 10
Saturday Night Dance................................................8:30 P. M., Union
Basket Ball—Penn State.................................................At Penn State
SUNDAY, JANUARY 11
Music Recital...................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
MONDAY, JANUARY 12
“A Pair of Spectacles”.................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, JANUARY 13
'General Assembl}1-.............................................11:30 A. M., Music Hall
“A Pair of Spectacles”.................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
¡Basket Ball—Geneva................ ................................................................1............At Beaver Falls
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14
UA Pair of Spectacles”................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16 
Basket Ball—W. & J.................................-----................At AVashington
The Student Council
OFFICERS
President—Milo Matter, 4921 Fortes Street...................................Schenley 0659
Vice President—V. S. Mollenauer, 4929 Forbes Street.................Schenley 9122
Secretary—Elizabeth Yolie, 34 Southern Avenue......................Lafayette 0933-.I
Treasurer—M. D. KaUfelz, 4S07 Baum Boulevard.........................Schenley 92S5
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Senate President—Mary Stuempfle, 4916 Forbes Street.................Schenley 9079
Senate Treasurer—Edith Warren, 5141 Woodlawn Avenue-----Schenley 0341-R
Senior President—Helen Gillespie, 324 Olive St., McKeesport-----McK. 2156-W
Senior Representative—Bernice Rentz, 4916 Forbes Street.........Schenley 9079
hrnBg hrn iÄ tÄajgGcieg
Student Senate.
M. D. KalL’elz, President, 4807 Baum Boulovurd..................
A. S. Andrews, Vico President, 920 St. Jamos Street........
I). V. Peode, Troasuror, 624 Clyde Streot...............................
I-'. S. Taber, Secretary, 209 South Neville Streot................
D. K: Mims, Sonior Class Representative, 024 diy.de St... 
R. W. Mankier, Sr., Class Representative, 4034 Windsor. 
J. W. Goss, Jr., Class Representative, Henderson Hall...
Athletic Council Representative.
H. E. Dykeman, 624 Clydo Streot.......................................
. .¿.Schenley 9285 
. . .Montrose 4799
......Hllhli)id 95*14
.Schonley 2258-.T
........Hlland 9544
..........lla/.el 8868
...Schenley 9180
.Illland 9544
derived fronrthe history and architec 
ture of the home of his childhood. If 
lie had had his prejudices among the 
humanities, which of us is fwithout 
them? The ear and the heart that his 
S'cots nature and early environment 
gave him for poetry and music he 
trained, as so many poor Scots be­
sides himself have done, by sedulous 
rending of and listening to only the 
best; of them, with that remarkable 
instinct and conscience for quality 
which distinguished him alike as. a 
student and as a manufacturer. In his 
crowded life of action upon every 
stage of poverty and wealth he had 
opportunities, given to few and hard­
ly ever to the merely academic stu­
dent of literature of proving experi­
mentally the truths uttered by poets 
and philosophers, and of feeling their 
force to the full.
And lie was fortunate, too, in the 
discipline of poverty through which 
he passed both in Dunfermline and 
during his earliest years in America.
Nothing else than this, with the var­
ied knowledge, which each stage of 
it and of his rise out of it gavo him. 
of the characters and capabilities of 
infill, could have trained those remark­
able powers of organization, of recog­
nizing and choosing the right kind of 
man, which made him the successful 
and eminent leader in industry and 
business that he proved to be. Noth- Freshmen Class Officers.
ing else than this deicipllne could ;^ Hess, President, 4921 Forbes Street...............................................Schenley 00r.9
IT. Grosskloss, Vico President, 4921 Forbes Street.........................Schonley 0659
C. F. McClelland, Treasurer, 4807 Baum Boulevard........................Schenley 9285
J. L. Davidson. Secretary, 254 Belloileld Avenue.............................Schenley 91.02
Senior Class Officers.
A. E. Mollor, President, 630 Clyde Street...........................................Illland 9380
(!. 11. Carl, Vico President. 203 Botfuet Street...........................Schenley 0393-M
M. Donahue, secretary, 254 Belloileld Street....................................Schonley 9102
K C. Kornman, Troasuror, 220 Main Streot...........................................Flslc 2175-W
Junior Class) Officers.
ft. Jtowley, President, 417 S. Dithrldge Streot...............'
J. F. Christoff, Vico President, 4807 Baum Boulevard.
0. W. Banner, Secretary, 417 South Dithrldge Street...
R. D. Coulter, Treasurer, 417 South Dithrldge Street..
Sophomore Class Officers.
S. Forbes, President, 624 Clydo Street..................................................Illland 9541
C. J. "Odd, Vico President, Henderson Hall......................................Schonley 9180
N. P. Mitchell, Treasurer, 254 Bollofleld Avenuo..............................Schenloy 9102
A. E. Dodge, Secretary, 2822 Baum Boulevard...............................Schenloy 9691
..Schonley 0877-R 
....Schonley 9285 
. .Schenloy 0877-R 
..Schonley 0877-R
, College of Engineering.
Senate President—D. A. Gardner, 5814 Forbes Street..........................Hazel 9422
Senate Treasurer—John M. O'Connor, 4732 Center Avenue..........Schenley 9392 :
Senior President—George E. Slye, 5549 Forbes Street.....................Hazel 3320
Senior Representative—C. H. James, 5218 Fifth Avenue................Schenley 3399 |
College ofl Fine Arts.
Senate President—O. B. Newman, 216 McGill Hall......................Schenley 9068 ;
Senate Vice President—Margaret Taylor. 5052 Forbes Street.. .Schenley 9063 |
Senate Treasurer—J. A. Ropp. 4929 Forbes Street..........................Schenley 9122 I
Senior President—Hoffer Sload, 254 Bellefield Avenue..................Schenley 9102
Senior Representative—V. S. Mollenauer, 4929 Forbes Street.. .Schenley 9122 ,
College of Industries.
Senate President—M. D. Kallfelz, 4807 Baum Boulevard...............Schenley 9285 j
Senate Treasurer—D. V. Beede, 624 Clyde Street............................Schenley 9401
Senior President—A. E. Mellor, 630 Clyde Street..........................Schenle> 9189 !
Senior Representative—A. S. Andrews, 920 St. James Street-----Montrose 4799
Women’s Athletic Association.
President—Rose Morin, 3454 Forbes Street...................................Schenley 2199 j
Men’s Athletic Association.
Representative—
Assistant Secretaries.
Nora Willetts Helen Pierson . Josephine Day ,
have endowed him with the experience 
and sympathy which directed the dis­
tribution of his subsequent wealth.
One naturally hesitates to appraise 
the religion of another. Yet in this 
place and at such a service it is our 
duty to do so, and materials are be­
fore us not merely in our own memo­
ries of Mr. Carnegie's life and con­
versation, but in the express state­
ments of his •autobiography. He and 
the friends of his youth eucountered 
some of the late Christian perver­
sions of the Biblical doctrine of pre­
destination (lie says “including in­
fant damnation”), and it is with sym­
pathy we read that they rejected them 
as increditable, and though “prettv 
wild in theology,” they got to be 
"more truly reverent about religion.” 
In middle life more serious problems 
stirred in him through his reading of 
Spencer and Darwin and the religious 
books of the East, but the result of 
some leisure, in which he had time to 
reflect upon this reading, was, he says,
"a certain mental peace........My mind
was at rest. The word3 of Christ, the 
Kingdom of Heaven is -within you, 
had a new meaning for me. Not in 
the past nor in the future, but now 
and here is Heaven within us, All 
our duties lie in this world and in 
the present, and trying to peer into 
that which is beyond is as vain as 
fruitless.” Yet in another place he 
writes these words about immortality: 
‘‘It would be no greater miracle that 
brought us into another world to live 
forever with our dearest than that 
which brought us into this one to live 
a lifetime with them___Let us there­
fore comfort ourselves with everlast­
ing hope.” Again, while granting the 
difficulties of conceiving the Almighty 
concerned in many of the little affairs 
in which men by prayer seek His help 
and feel that they get it, he does not 
doubt that the belief enables them to 
work wonders as direct agents of God.
One could not live with him for any 
time without discovering that in ad­
dition to the two ascriptions made to 
him by his friend Gilder of "enormous 
faculty and a great imagination;'' 
there should be added a third—of a 
real and sometimes a very bold rever­
ence—reverence, I repeat, in spite
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Acacia—630 Clyde Street ............................................................Hiland 9380
Alpha Tau Omega—254 Bellefield Streot.............................Schenley 9102
Beta Sigma Rlio—2136 Wightman Street...................................Hazel 9310
Beta Theta Pi—5549 Forbes Street.............................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Rlio—1108 Wightman Street.......................................Hazel 9494
Delta Mu—1655 Shady Avenue......................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta—356 Nortlr Craig Street........................Schenley 0721-J
Delta Tau Delta—5064 Forbes Streot...................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon-—4812 Baum Boulevard...................................Schenley 9196
Iota Sigma Delta—5601 Wilkins Avenue..............................Hazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon—4732 Center Avenue...................................Schenley ------
Kappa Sigma—624 Clyde Street..............:..............................Hiland 9544
Kappa Sigma Rho—444 Amberson.............................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha—4807 Baum Boulevard............................Schenley 9285
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—4915 Forbes Street...........................Schenley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi—4929 Forbes Street...............................Schenley 9122
Sigma Nu—1921 Forbes Street...............................................Schenley 0659
Theta Xi—5017 Forbes Street..................................................Schenley 9143
Woodlawn Club—5814 Forbes Street...........................................Hazel 9422
ALL
SEATS
25cRfomdCmu
ALL
SEATS
25cTHEATER
A Theater Beautiful Presenting Family Amusement in Comfort and 
Splendor.
HARRY DAVIS, General Manager. CONTINUOUS 2 to 11 P. M.
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
"THE NARROW STREET”GEORGE BEBAN
•-----with------------in------
DOROTHY DEVORE and"THE GREATEST LOVE
MATT MOOREOF ALL"
Deliciously Humorous--- Intrlgu- 
ingly Mysterious — Appoallng 
Romantic.
The very swootost story of lovo 
and romance. Mr. Rohan in his 
groatost and most lovablo role,
An Aenop’n Fable Latent NewsFollx the Cat Comedy and
Sportllght FilmNews Reel
Eupocially Qulectod Municnl Novelty 
PRINCESS ANGIE AND COMPANY 
Royal Hawaiian Entcrtalnern 
PrlncoNM Angle (a real Hawaiian PrinoOHai I,ho granddaughtor of King 
Kalakaua) In a gout! I no native dauco,
Tho Matlnoo, Htarllng a 2 P. M., offers the nouOBHary dlvondon to the 
•actlvo housewife who craven moderate relaxation and rest—-so owion- 
tlal to the busy home manager who keeps her house In order- and 
who protect» her beauty and physical charm. IT IS THIU PItOPIOR 
PLACU FOR THE KIDDIES AFTER SCHOOL
ADMISSION TO CHILDREN UNTIL 0 P. M. 10 CENTS
MADE IN Tll IO KNGIiLHB WA\ •’¦“¦WB
WATCH FOR EXHIBITS
of our correctly designed MEN’S CLOTHES carefully tailored in the 
ENGLISH FASHION from DISTINCTIVE IMPORTED and DOMES­
TIC FABRICS.
You will serve your pocket book as well as your wardrobe if we 
make your next suit.
NATIONAL TAILORS, Inc.
$29.50
Our representative 
will display our line 
—at—
HOTEL HENRY 
JANUARY 7th and 8th
TO ORDER
"Nationally Khown—Justly Famous”
jLjiBMafiajaa “MA DE IN THE ENGLISH WAyiêgaaefflaial
£ XJf L'liJTIOüx^
of
C‘£0 TJ-CES
n. rrs ^ ),).'¦,<rfr.'h 
s u o p. s
jrfffifliïJEr
Fifth Avenue at 46th St.
NEW YORK
At
WM. PENN HOTEL 
Monday and Tuesday 
January 12 and 13 
JIM BOYLE, Rep.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 6. 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
1 1 )
i &ê ?] J 
1 !PLAID ATHLETICS
J*
'
On the Plaid Screen j
J. F. CHRISTOFF
WE DON'T UNDERSTAND IT
•Our cagers surely put up a miserable game against the Princeton quintet 
on December 29. The Skibo defense was poor, but their offense was even 
poorer. Our boys could not seem to get going at all. The scpre at the first 
half was 30-5. Literally a runaway. Princeton seemed to drop in field goals 
at will.
In defense of our team, however, it must be said that they were not 
ready to play a game, especially with such a brilliant team as that displayed 
by Princeton. The boys had gone home for the Christmas holidays, and did 
not return until a couple of days before the contest. They showed lack of 
practice. Besides, it was the first big.game for several of the boys, and they 
were just “lost.”
Despite the fact that Princeton lost to Westminster by one point, the 
former has a wonderful team. Their coach stated after the Carnegie battle 
that his men far surpassed their showing at Westminster a couple of days 
before. They had a “big” night, and just could not miss any kind of a try at 
the basket.
Coach Lubic will develop a good team as the season progresses. He has 
several men on the squad who show promise, but it will take time to get 
them working together. Wait until February!
GRID SCHEDULE FOR 
1925 IS COMPLETED
Five Games to be Played 
Here and Three Away— 
Three Newcomers
NO GAMES HERE UNTIL FEBRUARY
The next varsity basket ball game in our gymnasium will be against 
Grove City on February 16. The team goes to State College next Saturday-, 
as does Coach John Irwin and his freshies. The varsity will also meet 
Geneva, Wash-Jeff and Pitt away from home during January.
THE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
The 1925 gridiron schedule seems to be better arranged than thj^se of 
the past few years. The hard games come after the easy ones, so that the 
team has a chance to recuperate from a gruelling struggle. That is, it is 
thought easy games precede the difficult ones. In modern football the small 
colleges are making it a rule to spring surprises on their more auspicious 
contemporaries, instead of making it an exception. But from this distance we 
think the schedule is very evenly balanced. With our team practically intact 
for 1925, football prospects for once take on a rosy hue for the Tartans.
THE JOINT LUNCHEON
The Varsity Clan and the Pittsburgh Clan will give their second annual 
luncheon in honor of the football and cross-country teams and coaches on 
January 17 at 1 p. m. in the William Penn ballroom. The unparalleled suc­
cess of the luncheon last year presages even a greater turnout of students 
and alumni this year. Tickets are at first available only to Seniors and 
Juniors, owing to the fact that a limited number of plates can be reserved. 
If the Seniors and Juniors do not respond in satisfactory numbers, the Sopho­
mores and Freshmen will be given a chance to buy tickets. There is hardly 
an event on the calendar which is enjoyed more than the football luncheon, 
at which time the football policy for the coming year is outlined, as well as 
inside “dope” regarding the past year given out. Wally should have a great 
deal more to tell this year than ever before.
INTER-FRATERNITY BASKET BALL
The schedule for the Inter-fraternity-Dormitory Leagues is announced in 
this issue of the Tartan. -The league games are very popular among the 
students, there being a great deal of friendly rivalry between the teams. 
The large silver cup donated by Scalpj:and Blade now in possession of Pi 
Kappa Alpha is the prize sought by the various teams. Sigma Ï
ning the pennant twice keeps, the cup.
i Since the previous issue of the Tar- I tan came out the Athletic Council has 
! ratified the complete football sched- 
I ule for the 1925 season. Three games 
j have been added4 to tne list. These 
| games are with St. Louis University, 
j Mt. St. Mary’s College and Drexel In- 
j stitute.
| The complete schedule calls for 
eight games, with the hard contests 
well separated except for the Wash- 
Jeff and Pitt struggles which come 
on consecutive Saturdays. The open­
ing engagement of the season has 
been postponed until October 3 in­
stead of September 26, for on that 
'day Pitt will play its first game in 
the new stadium and Carnegie officials 
I are co-operating to make it a banner 
I event in Pittsburgh. The second game 
j is with Mt. St. Mary’s of Emmitsburg, 
Md. There are many Mt. St. Mary’s 
alumni in the Tri-state District, and 
j they have long desired to see the 
i Tartans meet this school, one of the 
j oldest and best known in the state 
of Maryland. It is felt that these two 
games will suffice to put the team 
on edge for the Wash-Jeff encounter 
on October 17. This battle next year 
doubtless will be a sensational one, 
judging from those of the past few 
years.
The following week Carnegie will 
meet Pitt in the biggest game of the 
season in Pittsburgh, the one in which 
Pitt will officially dedicate their gi­
gantic hew stadium. It . will be the 
high spot of the season for Carnegie, 
and probably for Pitt, since the Ski- 
bos have taken the measure of their 
friendly enemies twice during the 
past two years. That will be one 
game Pitt feels she must win.
Drexel Institute of Philadelphia will
squads are going to have their girl friends at the football luncheon.
Gossip has it that the Perfect Lover won't take his sweetheart, 
lives too far away.
But we know who is going to accompany “Bull” Yoder.
the electric scoreboard in the new gym on New Year’s Day. The No 
Dame-Stanford game was portrayed. Was worth while seeing, we’ll say.
1925. Should we win, we’ll 
mainder of the season, Bill.
field. Will make the game more interesting, 
will not be tampered with.
on time this year. Each frateri 
early, so as to cause no delay.
19 points look wonderful
Use Mirror to Teach
By the aid of a polished brass mJr- 
ror which catches the sun’s rays and 
generates steam to run toys, pupils of 
schools In Germany are taught the 
principles of heat, energy and engines.
Smiles i* Sight 
^ back, at
WRNUYS
Collegiate Barber Shop
L. Daniele and T. Cicero, Props. 
Quick Service by Four Expert 
Barbers 
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
SHOES SHINED 
HATS CLEANED
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reservo 
System.
Capital.......................$300,000.00
Surplus - -................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
After Every Meal
ill’s llie longest-lasting 
confection yon can buy 
-and it’s a Jielji to di­
gestion and a cleanser 
Ay-* tor the mouth 
^§=¡2 and teetb.
Wrlgley’s means 
benefit as well as 
pleasure.
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT €0.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
iVufhammer & Evans
bi*| Hats and Men’s Furnishings
,hA 6100 PENN AVENUEoffice
¦ furnish the opposition two weeks u£- 
I ter the Pitt game. This will be the 
only game between the Panther con­
test and that with Notre Dame, which 
j was moved up to November 14. It is 
| figured that this will put the Tartans 
i in good shape for the Fighting Irish, 
this year the best team in the world 
byvirtue of their wonderful showing. 
St. Louis University, one of the big 
tdams of the ¡Middle West, will be 
played in St. Louis on November 21. 
The final game of the season will be 
agaiust Lehigh at Pittsburgh. Last 
j year Lehigh defeated the Skibos by a 
I small margin the week after Carnegie 
j had whipped the Panther, 
j The team will make three trips 
| next season, the one to South Bend 
j to meet, Notre Dame, to St. Louis to 
battle St. Louis -University, and the 
j one to Little Washington to meet W. 
& J. The state games has been drop- 
I ped from the schedule.
To take care of the students and 
alumni of the Pittsburgh district on 
the trips to the Mid-West Graduate 
Manager of Athletics Over end-' has 
purchased a gigantic electric score­
board which will portray these games 
as they actually appear on the grid­
iron. This electric score board will 
be installed in the new gymnasium.
An indication of how rapidly Car­
negie has come to the front in the 
football world in recent, years is the 
fact that “Buddy" Overend was 
swamped with requests for games in 
1925. The Sliibos were offered the 
game to dedicate West Virginia’s new 
stadium at Morgantown before Penn 
State accepted the game. In addition 
such teams as Center College, Geor­
gia Tech, Haskell Indians, Marquette 
University, Quantico Marinos, Nebras­
ka. 'Georgetown, Catholic University, 
Dickinson, Bucknell, Davis-Elkins, 
Ohio Wesleyan, Akron, Mercer, 
Creighton, John Carroll, Detroit Uni­
versity, Broaddus and Others wanted 
to appear on the Carnegie schedule. I 
Coach Steffen, liowQver, felt that 
enough big teams were already sched­
uled.
The complete schedule follows:
September 26—Open.
October 3—Mt. St.. Mary’s, here.
October 17—Wash-Jeff, thore.
ROLLER IS APPOINTED 
VARSITY GRID MANAGER
Shortly before the Christmas re­
cess began, the Athletic Council met 
and* selected the football managers 
for next season. E. R. Roller received 
the varsity managership, R. II. Do- 
pue was appointed to act in the same 
capacity for the fresiunan squad, and 
V. L. Wendlaudt was chosen as an 
alternate. These men have worked 
three years for the much coveted 
positions and are to be congratulated 
on their success.
"Russ” Roller comes from Alliance, 
Ohio. He attended Bellefonte Acada- 
my, serving as football manager dur­
ing his last, year*there. After grad­
uating lie attended the University of 
Michigan for one year before coming 
to take the architectural course at 
Carnegie. "Russ” is a member of DeU 
ta 'Skull. Scarab, the Kappa Sigma 
fraternity, and served on the campus 
week committee last year. He is al­
so on the committee which has charge 
of the Junior Prom.
R. H. Depue, the freshman mana­
ger for next season, is a Pittsburgh 
boy and is taking the electrical en­
gineering course. “Bob” is a member 
of the Theta Xi fraternity and has 
served on -'Several committees in sci- 
enco school.
The alternate, “Vern” Wendlaudt, 
comes to Carnegie from Duluth, Minn. 
He is registered in the commercial en­
gineering course and belongs to -the 
Delta Tau Delta fraternity.
Covers Many Things
Moral conduct Includes everything 
In which men are active and for which 
they are accountable.—Emmons.
. October 24—Pitt, there.
October 31—Permanently open. 
November 7—Drexel Institute; here. 
November 14-—Notre Dame, there. 
November 21—St. Louis University, 
there.
November 2(5—(Thanksgiving) open. 
November 2S—Lehigh, here.
Cross Word Puzzle No. 3
The feature of this puzzle is that it contains some words which appear 
twice; one word appears four times. While the definitions are somewhat, 
difficult, look around until you find a similar definition opposite another num­
ber—if you can.
stuuheridan Square 
------------------------------
East Liberty
inter fraternity Basketball Schedule 1924-1925
VNATIONALLEAGUE
e
Beta 
Sigma Rho
Boss
Hall
Woodlawn
Club
Henderson
Hall
PI Kappa 
Alpha
Alpha Tau 
Omega
Delta
Upsilon
¦ü.»--
Theta
XI
Bcta 
Sigma 
e Rho
Thursday 
March £ 
7:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 10 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 2(5 
7:30
Tuesday 
January 13 
8:30
Wodnusday 
'Fob. IS 
8:30
e
Boss
Hall
Thursday 
March 5 
7:30
Wednesday 
January 14 
8:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
7:30
Thursday 
Fob. 12 
7:30
Tuesday 
Fob. 24 
8:30
tTuosday 
March 3 
7:30
Wednesday 
March It 
8:30
e
1 Woodlawn 
Club
Tuesday 
Feb. ¡5 
. 7:30
Wednesday 
January 14 
8:30
Tuesday 
Fob. 24 
7:30
Thursday 
Fob. 26 
8:30
Thursday 
March 12 
8:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 18 
7:30
Wodnosday 
Fob. 11 
7:30
Henderson
Hall
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
7:30
Tuesday 
Fob. 24 
7:30
Thursday 
Fob. 19 
8:30
Thursday 
January 15 
8:30
Tuesday 
March 10 
7:30
Thursday 
March 5 
7:30
s Pi
Kappa
Alpha
Tuesday 
March 10 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 2G 
8:30
Thursday 
Fob. 19 
• 8:30
Tuesday 
Fob. 17 
7:30
Thursday 
Fob. 5 
7:30
Tuesday 
January 13 
8:30
1 Alpha 
1 Tau
Oméga
Thursday 
Feb. 2(5 
7:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
8:30
Thursday 
March 12 
8:30
Thursday 
January 15 
8:30
Tuesday 
Fob. 17 
7:30
Wednesday 
Fob. 11 
8:30
Tuesday 
Fob. :: 
8:30
e Delta
Upsilon
Tuesday 
January 13 
8:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 1» 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 10 
7:30
Thursday 
Fob. 5 
7:30
Wodnosuay 
Feb. 11 
8:30viri
Tuesday 
Fob. 24 
8:30
j i’heta i Xi
Wednesday 
Feb. 18 
8:30
Wednesday 
March 11 
8:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
7:30
Thursday 
March 5 
. 7:30
Tuesday 
January 13 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
' 8:30.I1 '
AMERICANLEAGUE]4
i- - ..Delta Mu
Kappa
Sigma
Beta
Theta
Pi
Kappa
Epsilon
Sigma
Alpha
Epsilon
Sigma
Epsilon
PhiSigma NuAcacia j
' :,r Delta Mu.fi y
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 10 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 2G 
7:30
Tuesday 
January 13 
7:30
Tuesday 2 
March 3 j 
7:30
*:*
*]• Kappa 
*t’ Sigma
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
8:30
Wednesday 
January 14 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
7:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
7:30
Wednesday ! 
March 11 I 
8:30
*j‘ Beta 
X Theta
* Pi
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
7:30
Wednesday 
January 1-1 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 25 
8:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
8:30
Thursday 
March 12 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
7:30
Tuesday J 
Feb. 17 ! 
7:36 IX
j* Kappa 
î* Epsilon
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 25 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
7:30
Thursday 
January 15 
7:30
Wednesday 
March 11 
7:30
Thursday 1 
March 5 ? 
7:30
Sigma 
j Alpha 
- Epsilon
Tuesday 
March 10 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
7:30
i 1
Tuesday 
Feb. 17 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 5 
7:30
Wednesday | 
January 14 j 
8:30
Sigma
Epsilon
Phi
Thursday 
Feb. 26 
7:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
3:30
Thursday 
March 12 
8:30
Thursday 
January 15 
7:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 17 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
8:30
Wednesday * 
Feb. 4 J 
8:30 |
Sigma
Nu
Tuesday 
January 13 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
7:30
Wednesday 
March 11 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 5 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
8:30
Thursday { 
Feb. 26 » 
8:30
Acacia
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
7:30
Wednesday 
March 11 
S:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 17 
7:30
Thursday 
March 5 
7:30
Wednesday 
January 14
8:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 26 
8:30
?
1FEDERAL LEAGUE
lota
Sigma
Delta
Delta
Tau
Delta
Welch
Hall
Delta
Chi
Rho
Delta
Phi
Delta
McGill
Hall
Kappa
Sigma
Rho
Scobell
Hall
Iota
Sigma
Delta
Thursday 
March 5 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
8:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
8:30
Tuesday 
March 10 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 26 
8:30
Tuesday 
January 13 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 18 
8:30
Delta 
Tau 
Df Ita
Thursday 
March 5 
8:30.........
Wednesday 
January 14 
7:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
8:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
8:30
Wednesday 
March 11 
7:30
Welch
Hall
Tuesday 
Feb. 3 
8:30
Wednesday 
January 14 
7:30
Thursday 
Fob. 20 
7:30
Thursday 
March 5 
8:30
Thursday 
March 12 
7:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
7:30
Delta
Chi
Rho
Wednesday 
Feb. 11 
8:30
Wednesday 
Feb. 4 
8:30
Thursday 
Fob. 20 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
8:30
Thursday 
January 15 
7:30
Thursday 
March 1.2 
7:30
Thursday 
March 5 
8:30
Delta 
Phi 
?* Delta
Tuesday 
March 10 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12 
8:30
Thursday 
March 5 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 19 
8:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 5 
8:30
Thursday 
January 1.5 
8:30-
I McGill 
j Hall
Thursday 
Feb. 20 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
8:30
Thursday 
March 12 
7:30
Thursday 
January 15 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
8:30
Tuesday 
Fob. 17 
• 8:30
Thursday 
Fob. 5 
8:30
j Kappa 
! Sigma 
j Rho
Tuesday 
January 13 
7:30
Tuesday 
March 3 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 24 
7:30
Thursday 
March 12 
7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 5 
8:30
Tuesday 
Feb. 17 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 26 
8:30
î Scobell 
\ Hall
Wednesday 
Feb. 18 
8:30
Wednesday 
March 11 
\ 7:30
Thursday 
Feb. 12- 
7:30
Thursday 
March 5 
8:30
Thursday 
January 15
8:30
Thursday 
Fob. 5 
8:30
Thursday 
Feb. 26 
8:30¦
Horizontal.
I1—What some freshmen are known 
as.
10—What an elusive halfback is some­
times called.
11—Promise to pay.
12—Knowledge.
14—One thing you db on the black­
board.
17—Excellent mark in daily quizzes.
19—Pronoun.
20—Wrath.
21.—Against.
22—Mail’d nickname.
23:—In your favor.
25—Either (Al)bit;).
20—Wlutt professors arc supposed to 
bo.
2S—An equal.
31—Margarget Morrison girls.
32—Spongy oxcroscence (PL).
33—Mouthploce of musical instrument. 
35—Important 011 offensive in base­
ball.
30—Southorn state (Abbr.).
38—Rum distilled from molasses.
40—Upon.
‘II—And (Latin).
•12—Ancient Egyptian king (Abbr.).
¦13—A continent (Abbr.).
•14—Thing placed by two or more men. 
•IG;—Moral perception.
•18—A fish.
•19—On the brink.
51—Singular.
53—How a star plays.
Vertical.
—Gawky boys.
-View.
—You and I.
—A drink.
—Arts School girls.
—Not truo.
—To go (Latin).
—A conjunction'.
—How nows in papers is usuall3r 
given.
—A slippory living thing.
—What some 111011 do in the world. 
—Look.
—A woman well-known in United 
Statos.
—Not a liability.
—Intoxicating liquor.
—Conflict.
—That which can be arousod. 
—Pooh! (Coloq.).
—Existence.
--Co-eds are happy if tlioy have one. 
—Girls make them, too. 
—Consumed.
—Toadstools.
—A number; it’ you uro a woman- 
hater that number of women is a 
crowd.
-l)Ioz (English).'
—Where you are when asked a 
question In class and don’t know 
the answer.
—How long you think you wait for 
your Bwootle.
—As slippory as an------.
-Preposition (Latin).
—A division of the Western Homls- 
plioro (Abbr.).
ANSWERS TO TARTAN PUZZLI-] No. 2, 
Horizontal.
I—Maggio Murph, 10—Ami, II Nod, 12...Era, 18-
Lap, 18—Had, 19- ’ ......................................Tart, 15—Boer, .1 (I——
19—In, 22—Treat, 21—No, 25- -Co, 2(! -Ind., 27 An, 28—Un, 
29—Angel, 31--PI, 32—TNT, 33 Sip, 35—Ashy, 37 Domi, 39-~Tau, 40—Art. 
*13—Ran, 44...Engineering.
Vortical.
I. -Matriculate, 2 AMA, 3—-Girl, -I In, 5...IBM, «—MD, 7—Rood, 8 Pro,
9—Harmonizing, 1-1 -Tat, ;I.K- Hat, 17—Print, 18—Hados, 21 Son, 23- -Eng.,’ 
21—Nap, 29—Any, 30—Lid, 32—Thug, 34 Perl, 30—Han, 38—Man, 10 -An, 41- Re, .‘12 -To.
PRINCETON IS TOO 
MUCH FOR TARTANS
Visitors Trim Plaid Quint by 
52-20 Score in First 
Game of Season
The Carneglo Tocli basketball squad 
returned Docombor 27, to got aomo 
much needed practice before the 
Princeton gamo. Two workouts wore 
scheduled and the squad seemod to 
be in good condition for Lhoir first 
game, December 29, but thoro was 
something lacking in the gamo that 
put Carnegie on the small end of a 
50-22 score.
The Princeton team started out 
with a fast offensive that seemed to 
bewilder the Plaid, and “before two 
minutes had passed they had an 8 to 
1 lead on the Skibos. Captain Matter 
called time out to talk things over, 
and when the game started again the 
Plaid seemed to check the Princeton 
team for awhile, but things started 
to boll again and Princeton soon had 
the Carnegie men 25 to 3. Princeton 
at this time made substitutions by 
placing a new team on the floor. The 
Skibos did somewhat better with this 
team, but the whistle soon blew and 
the half ended 30 to 5.
Princeton carried a squad of eigh­
teen men and at the beginning of the 
half started a third and entirely new 
team. The Carnegie men soon broke 
into a strong offensive and began to 
tally points on the Princeton subs, 
but before they got far the Princeton 
regulars were put into the gamo again 
and the tide turned. Coach Lubic 
made several substitutions, but the 
Carnegie squad could not got down 
to a good working order at any time 
during the game. During the remain­
ing part of the game Coach Wittmor 
of Princeton gave his entire squad 
of eighteen men a chance to show 
their merits. The gamo onded 50 to 
22,
This was Carnegie's first gamo of 
the season and might account for
part oin.ho toa'iu’i.i' poor, allowing. .SUY 
oral of I,ho players had a hal’d tlmo 
finding themselves. Mattor and Don- 
aliuo woro about the only two Car­
negie men to account for thomsolves, 
but neither Mhlgo or Donahue play­
ed tlio game they uro capublo of play­
ing.
Couch Lubio thinks his team has 
gained a groat deal and loarnod a 
good lesson playing this game al­
though wo lost by such a largo mar­
gin. The team journeys to Penn State 
noxt wook, and is dotorminod to make 
a good showing thoro and hard work­
outs aro scheduled for ovory night 
this wook.
The lineup:
CARNEGIE 20. PRINCETON 52.
Conrad ................L, F.............. Lemon
Donahue..............R. F............... Hynsen
Mefort .................C.................. Cleovea
Matter .................L. G.......... Anderson
Lynch .................R. G................... Loeb
Score by halves:
Carnegie ... 5 15—20 
Princeton . . 30 22 52
Substitutions: Carnegie — Levinson 
for Mefort, Beode for Levinson, Me­
fort for Beede, Beede for Mefort. 
Princeton—Reese for Alexander, Gart­
ner for Lemon, Bartley for Eben, Hull 
for Cleeves, Labrume for Loeb, Loeb 
for Anderson, Loeb for Gartner, 
Cleeves for Reese Hynson for Mc­
Cabe, Gilllgan for Labrume, Hull for 
Cleeves, McCabe for Hynson, Alex­
ander for Hull. Field Goals—L&mon. 
3, Hynson 5, Cleeves 4, Anderson 2, 
Loeb 4, Reese 2, Donahue 2, Mefort 
1, Matter 1.
Foul Goals — Carnegie 12 out of 
15; Princeton 12 out of 17.
Referee—Cal Bolster.
Umpire—Buck Baird.
Wisdom of Work
The wise man puts the shoulder» of 
other men to the wheel.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESSsurrs to hire
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
fJOO State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pltsburgh, Pa.
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 6, 1925
¿0FCATdt EFNm¿0
F. R. Cogswell Elected 
New Carnegie Trustee
Is a Graduate of College of 
Engineering 1912
CLAN NEWS
Mr. Frederick R. Cogswell has been 
elected by the Carnegie Trustees to 
the Committee of the Trustees o£ the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. He 
graduated in Electrical Engineering 
from the College of Engineering in 
1912, and is the second alumnus to be 
appointed to the Committee of Trus­
tees.
Cogswell was a very popular man 
in his class and was very much in­
terested in the administration of 
school activities as a student. Later 
he served on the Alumni Board and 
was a member of the committee of 
Alumni which controlled the athletics 
of the school and which aided in the 
organization of the present Athletic 
Council. At the present time, Cogs­
well is Traffic Director of the Pitts­
burgh Railways Company.
"A PAIR OF SPECTACLES” AND 
“THE FAN” TO BE REVIVED
BY DRAMA DEPARTMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
the Plebes their first opportunity of 
displaying their talents in “Iphigenia,” 
one of the masterpieces of ancient 
Greece, by Euripedes. The first pro­
duction of the Plebes is an event 
eagerly looked forward to by the hab­
itual theater-goers because it is the 
first glimpse of the new talent.
“Iphigenia” will be produced under 
the direction of Chester Wallace, and 
will be presented for an entire week, 
beginning January 19.
NEW YORK CLAN
Cousiderable interest' is being 
i shown in the regular weekly lunch- 
¦ eon meetings of the New York Clan.
Officers for the coming year have 
been elected as follows:
J. M. Giter, president; J. A. Camer­
on, vice president; S'. A. Smith, secre­
tary and treasurer.
;The Publicity Committee: B. H. 
Goldenson, chairman; E. B. Gage.
The Annual Banquet Committee: 
V. C. Ritter, chairman; G. M. Guter, 
J. A. Cameron, S. A. Smith, B. H. 
Goldenson, E. B. Gage.
Enthusiasm is running high about 
the biggest and best Annual affair 
contemplated for February 7, 1925. 
The larger committee this year is un­
dertaking a very elaborate affair, en­
thusiastically encouraged on all sides 
by the many Alumni consulted.
Those who contemplate attending 
are asked to advise the Committee 
in time so that reservations may be 
made accordingly.
New York Alumni who are not list­
ed in the Carnegie Alumni Directory 
will please send their addresses to 
the Publicity Chairman. Changes o£ 
address should also be made so that 
all bulletins will be delivered.
Correspondence may be addressed 
to any of the officers or committee­
men. It is preferable, however, that 
correspondence pertaining to the An­
nual affair be addressed to the Pub­
licity Chairman. All addresses may­
be found in the Cai*negie Alumni Di­
rectory.
AMBITIOUS BOY WHO SAW 
THE FOLLIES WANTS TO 
WRITE ABOUT THE DOLLIES
(Continued Fi_>m Page One) 
day Evening Post if you don’t use 
them as only .my loyalty to my Alma 
Mater keeps me from getting rich 
instead of making your paper famous.
On second thought to make it a 
square deal for all I will display my 
list of subject at Dean Munhall’s of­
fice from now ad infantile as the po­
ets say rather than not take no 
chances of having" you destroy the 
letter and irrevocably hide the great 
masterpiece from all.
Please answer this quick as I got 
several more irons in the fire ana 
want to know what to do about it.
As always,
JOE DUMM.
Editor’s Note—We have already ad­
vised Joe to throw the rest of his 
stories in with the irons.
Students desiring to do even­
ing shopping for gifts and greet- 
\ ing cards, can get into the Sing­
er Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins 
Arcade, until 9:30 p. m.
Europea» Tours
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Days
$395 nnd up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
For full particulars address
NEW YORK UmVERSITY
Tours Division 
Washington Square- Wev/ Tork
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
TheWkint
"¿Ae master 
dmuxngpendr
17 leads—all dealers
D avion—
“Wliat was the name of tfiat pencil 
Professor Williams was recom­
mending this morning?”
Pythias—
•‘Eldorado—my boy, Eldoradol 
Just tliink of N fabled land of 
ease and happiness—where no one 
Hunks—where pencils are the magic 
sticks of achievement. Then you 
can never forget it.”
Invest Your Savings in Bonds
For personal investment there are 
few things that offer as many ad­
vantages as good bonds. Safety, 
income and marketability are the 
factors that measure investment 
values and in these respects good 
bonds aro rated high.
Invest your money In bonds. 
Whether you can afford one or 
many, you will find here ’ntclligent 
Interest in your requirements and 
a sincere desire to provide invest­
ments that will fit your particular needs.
And remember, you can buy good 
bonds in denominations as low ju i5100.
CITMAS ESTABLISHES
HAAREN PRIZE FUND
SENIOR PRESENTS THESIS AT 
MEETING OF CARNEGIE A. I. E. E.
Mr. J. M. Kelly, Senior Electrical I HINWFR HFI H DFf Hstudent, presented his senior thesis I LWrlnClV IlCLU UEL/. 1J
before the Carnegie Tech branch of i ? ¦ ¦ ¦
the A. I. E; E. on December 3. The | 
subject of *Mr. Kelly’s thesis was 
“The Construction Features of the I 
C. M/and St. P. Electric Locomotive.” | 
antem slides of the construction of 
the locomotive and of the locomotive 
in practice were shown and explain­
ed. Thè lecture was very interesting 
and highly instructive.
Alumni Gathering is 
Held in Berkley, Cal.
Steps Taken to Organize Clan 
on the Coast
FACULTY ALUMNI
Dean Mott Speaks at Dinner 
Given by Science Grads 
and Professors
At the regular monthly dinner of 
the Citmas Club, held at the Hotel 
Ruskin on Wednesday evening, a 
memorial fund, to be Known as the 
Haaren Prize Fund, was established. 
The exact purpose of this fund has 
not yet been decided but it will prob­
ably be used to reward athletes of 
high scholastic attainment. Frank 
H. Haaren was always in sympathy 
with the high purposes of the Cit­
mas club and members of the asso­
ciation feel that they would like to 
do honor to his name through this 
means.
Professor Dunnells officiated as 
toastmaster in his .usual jovial man- 
mer. The first speaker of the even­
ing was Mr. Roy A. MacGregor, 
president of the Crafts ‘Club of 
Crafton. Mr. MacGregor spoke on 
the coming dinner to be held on 
Saturday, June 17, at McCreery's, in 
honor of President Eaton of the Na­
tional League of Masonic Clubs. All 
members of the fraternity at Carne­
gie Tech are cordially invited to at­
tend. The sprinciple speaker of the! 
evening was Dr. Arnold, Professor of j 
English at tlie University of Pitts­
burgh, who talked in a most inter-1 
esting manner on the four, important 
points of Masonry. Forty members 
were present at the dinner.
All Master Masons connected in 
any manner with Carnegie, whether 
as faculty member or student, in 
either day or night schools, are eli­
gible for membership in the Citmas 
Club. All the men interested are re­
quested to communicate with Prof. 
-Kent D. Shaffer, Room, Industries, 
210.
On Saturday evening, December 6, 
a meeting was held in the home of 
Miss Ethelwyn M. Dodson, M .’10, in 
Berkeley, for the purpose of organ­
izing a Carnegie Clan. The following 
Carnegie men and women were pres­
ent: Miss Ethelwyn M. Dodson, M’10, 
Mr. H. P. Fowler, EAssoc., Mr. John 
B. McCool, A’20, Mrs. Agnes McAl- 
pine McCool. A’Assoc., Mr. John R. 
Gearhart, E’13, Mrs. Edith Breisch 
Gearhart, MAssoc., Mrs. Inez Hea- 
cock Pille, M’17, Mrs. Elizabeth Dent­
ing Wharton, M’-17, Mr. Lazer L. Nus- 
baum, A’22, Mr. S. Z. Nichols, I’lO, 
Mr. David D. 'Stark, E'17, and Mrs. 
Madeline Stein Stark, MAssoc.
It was voted that the necessary 
steps be taken to procure a Charter 
for a Carnegie Clan calling itself by 
the name of the Golden Gate Car­
negie Clan, and meetings be held 
monthly. The following officers were 
elected: President, John R. Gearhart; 
Secretary and Treasurer, H. P. Fow­
ler.
The initial meeting was spent in 
renewing old friendships, getting ac­
quainted, and in talking over old 
times. Each member was required to 
give a short talk on "how they hap­
pened to be in California and what 
they were doing at the present time.” 
Dainty refreshments were served by 
the hostess and the meeting was ad­
journed in anticipation of the next. 
There is promise of an even better | 
attendance next time.
Amidst the greeting of old friends, 
a good dinner and a very enjoyable 
evening, the Faculty and Alumni hold 
their banquet at the Carnegie Inn 
December 13^ At the hour of 6:15, a 
crowd of good fellows gathorod 
around the fireplace and discussed 
by-gone days for old time’s sake. Din­
ner which was served promptly at 
7:00 was immensely enjoyed by all.
After the dinner, W. W. Slocum 
’OS called the meeting and introduced 
Director Mott who gave an excellent 
address, concerning the improvement 
in the curriculum of the courses in 
school. This was followed by a few 
impromptu speeches by various mem­
bers of the faculty and the alumni.
One of the most interesting parts 
of the evening’s 'entertainment, was 
a motion picture review of all Car­
negie's football games. It afforded 
many of the alumni, who had not the 
opportunity to see the games, the 
great pleasure in seeing Carnegie’s 
team in action.
Many of the 190S, ’09, ’10 alumni 
were present and they must have had 
a grand and glorious feeling to bo 
upon the Carnegie campus. Among 
the alumni present were A. C. Spragg 
’16. G. M. Porter ’11, G. B. Delzell 
’14, H. Ginsburg '20, A. V. Ritz ’IS, 
W. W. Slocum ’OS, W. H. Buento ’12. 
A. A. Frey '15, B. L. ’’Schwartz ’16, 
W. I. Sivitz ’08, Clarence Oveiond. 
W. J. Blanco '21, H. B. Nickel ’21, and 
G. L. Tilbroolc ’15. Among the faculty 
were Director Mott, Prof. Trinks, 
Prof. Estop, Prof Blaisdell, Mr. Wil 
liamson, Prof. I-Iower, Prof. Crabtree, 
Prof. Work and Dr. Rittman.
At 11:45 the banquet disbanded and 
everyone left, feeling sure that they 
had spent a very onjoyable ovening.
A PROMINENT ENGINEER HAS 
BEEN ELECTED S. 1. E. DIRECTOR
Dr. Walter E. Uittmuu. head of the 
Department of Commercial Engineer­
ing at Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy, has been elected as a director of 
the Society of Industrial Engineers, 
according to an announcement from 
the society's headquarters in Chicago.
Mr. Rittman has served as Assis­
tant head of the Pittsburgh Chapter 
of S. 1. E. and his position as direc­
tor of the National Organization 
should be welcomed by Pittsburghers.
Pop Warner’s Huskies 
Fall Before the Irish
Duties in Common
Good editors and good orchardmen 
have one problem in common—1«> 
prune out words, or branches, Judi­
ciously so as to give proper form; not 
to slash Indiscriminately without 
thought of effcct.—Exchange.
Registration in Night 
Shop Courses Opened
List of Courses Still Open to 
Students Given
TELESCOPE1
Beginning this week, many of • the 
shop and studio night courses at Cur- 
uegie Tech will be re-opened for the 
registration of new students, accord­
ing to an announcement from Dr. 
R. M. Ihrig, Director of the Night 
Courses. Although two weeks remain 
before the second term of the night 
classes begin according to the ollicial 
calendar, special provisions have been 
made to permit any night students 
who enroll before the end of the first 
term to entor. classes immediately 
without tuition .charges additional to 
the regular fees for the second term.
Although a number of the shop and 
studio courses in the College of In­
dustries, and the College. of Fine 
Arts, have been closed to additional 
enrollments because of capacity reg­
istration, the following, it is announc­
ed, will be reopened: College of In­
dustries: mochanical drafting, pat-
tornmaking, foundry, forge and hoat 
treatment of steel, machine practice, 
structural drafting, architectural 
drafting, bricklaying and masonry, 
shoot metal work, plumbing, welding 
heating and ventilating, storage bat­
teries, woodworking and printing.
College of Fine Arts: free hand 
drawing, painting, architectural de­
sign, and sculpture modeling. A few 
students can also ho admitted for in 
dividual lesson« in music.
The office of the Registrar will bo 
open every Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday night, from 7 to 9 o’clock to 
enroll new night students in those
Here we are back again, to start 
another leg of the journey toward 
something of which we always dream­
ed but. at times doubt if we will ever 
realize. This the soliloquy of every 
student except a very few. Somehow 
it. seems that’ the confidence which 
brought us here and assured us that 
we were as good as tile best begins 
to fall below par as we tackle the 
different departments. At first wo 
decide we are going to be a Napoloon 
then we later conclude that we will 
just be a Rockefeller or a Ford. But 
in due time our ambitious target is 
lowered and we aro going to bo lucky 
if we survive Carnegie.
Let’s cheer up! The darkest hour 
usually falls boforo the dawn, if we 
buck up, and keep going we will seo 
the dawn of a new semester. Let’s 
I convince these gloom spreading 
j profs, who say thero is no Santa 
I Claus, that we are back from a vaca- 
! tion to do our stuff.
NOTED SCIENTIST WILL
LECTURE THIS WEEK
Jtt(Continued From Pag« One.)
value of it is of great importance to 
scientists.
The topics for discussion during the 
series will bo: Tuesday. January 6,
"Eighteenth Century Ideas:” Wed­
nesday, "The Transition Period of 
j the Ninteont.li Century,” and Thurs­
day, "Twentieth Century Concepts.”
PUPPET’S PROM ISSUE TO
BE OUT THIS MONTH
(Continued Krom Pace One.) 
tions, Puppet ought to sell in one day 
to the entire student body. But. .it 
won’t. The student body doesn’t buy 
the Puppet. Puppet couldn’t survive 
on the support given by the students 
alono, because only n small number 
of them usually purchase it. It is 
hoped that this issuo will Induce them 
to shako off their indifference.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULT9
Program Being Arranged 
For Varsity Clan Lunch
Annual Luncheon to be Held 
Jan. 17 at William Penn
On January 17th, 1925 the Varsity 
Clan and the Pittsburgh Clan will 
hold a combination Luncheon in the 
William Penn Ball room at 1:00 p. m. 
in honor of the football team. Tho 
cross country teams will be invited 
also, as guests of the Athletic Coun­
cil.
Dr. Baker, President of tho Car- 
nogie institute of Technology; Mi*. 
Camuel Harding Church, President of 
the Board of Trustees; the Board of 
Trustees; Newspaper Reporters from 
all over the Trl-stato district; Presi­
dents of the Rotary, Kiwanis, Lions, 
Cooperative, and Optimist Clubs; 
Captains of tho W. P. 1. A. L. teams, 
and representatives of various col­
leges; will be guests at the Lunch­
eon.
Graduate Manager, Clarence Ovor- 
end has made arrangements to han­
dle over a thousand participants in 
what is expected to be the largest 
Banquet ever held by the Varsity 
Clan.
The program will bo interesting and 
varied, and rightly so for it Is in 
honor of tho greatest, toams that over 
fought for tho glory of the Clan, as 
well as one of the gamost teams that 
over trod the gridiron.
Further and more complete notice 
of the Luncheon will be given in tho 
next issue of tho Tartan
„ 'tmimmmmmmwmmnmmmmT ; 
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artlatr.’ nnd Engineers’ Mate­
rials, Stationery and Genernl 
Supplies for Students,
Halting Terrific Onslaught 
N. D. Proves Her Prowess
NOTICE TO OFFICERS OF ALL 
STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
The Student Council has received 
¦a. communication from the business 
office of the school stating that stu­
dent organizations must not con­
tract bills in the name of the Carne­
gie Institute of Technology.
Merchandise or equipment bought 
by any student organization must be 
made in the name of that organiza­
tion, or, if properly countersigned
by the Student Council Treasurer, 
can be charged to the Student Coun­
cil.
Ancient Tools
Recent excavations In California 
brought to light two tools—a petrified 
bone awl about two inches lohg, and a 
rudely fnshinnpd quartzite pnlm ax.
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 4 
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
ING HYCE 
.O',99GC :,CC 
30HPML .:HB
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fel­
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in­
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
As a fitting climax to a great 
season, the Four Horsemen of- Notre 
Dame firmly established their right 
to the National title of Football 
Champions by decisively defeating 
Leland Stanford; the best team on 
the coast, which was coached by 
Pop Warner, tho Daddy of thom all. 
There was not a little satisfaction at 
Carnegie over the outcome. This 
game brought out several things to 
the advantage of tho Plaid team.
Stanford did not buck ovor a 
touchdown. Their only touchdown 
was made on a forward pass, while 
a field goal accounted for their 
other points. Beede carried over 
two on our now famous spinner 
play.
Lay den made two touchdowns on 
intercepted foreward passes running 
more than sixty yards for both. 
Notre Dame made no long .runs 
against us.
Stanford lost the ball on downs 
with only eighteen inches to go for 
a touchdown. Carnegie made tho 
necessary yardage whenever we were 
within striking distance o? the goal.
Notre Dame did not gain a great 
deal against the Stanford line, yet 
they did not do much better with 
ours. In the Carnegie game, the 
foreward pass was the best weapon 
of the Irish.
When one considers that Carnegie 
has no ripping, crushing fullback 
like Nevers, that they wore smaller 
than Notre Dame, whereas Stanford 
outweighed the Irish sixteen pounds 
to the man it looks as though Car­
negie is not so bad.
We are not trying to compare dif­
ferent conditions and deduce that 
Carnegie is better than Leland 
Stanford, or any,other team for that 
matter. Our record speaks for it­
self. What we do say is this. The 
showing of our team in that never 
to be forgotten game was not a 
fluke. Our team went out on the 
field with lots of fight and played a 
game which would have beaten any 
other of our opponents. We had a 
smart, fast team. We had courage 
and training. Our noys simply did 
not have the physical ability to cope 
with the team from Indiana. We 
scored more touchdowns ' against 
them than any other team, and the 
game yesterday simply substantiates 
our claim that the Carnegie team of 
that game deserves rank with the 
greatest football teams in the coun­
try.
To Whom It May Concern
The following clause has been re­
printed from the White Book, which 
contains the regulations, for the 
guidance of undergraduate students: 
'SECTION 21, PART E.
“No student or group of students 
shall prevent any student or group 
of students from attending classes, 
or interfere with classes in any 
way, under penalty of suspension 
not to exceed one year.”
BALTIMORE—President, Arthur W. 'Crownover, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Bromo Seltzer Tower Building; Vico President, 
G. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments*, Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. Ii. Dielcey, .1.318 Contin­
ental Building.
BOSTON—Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 30 Freeman Street, Wollas- 
. ton, Mass.
BUFFALO—President, 11. G. Townsend, 22 Buhvell Parlnvay; Vico 
President, B. A. Lutton, 288 Saranac, A-'iiiuo; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGO—President, J. B. Patterson, Ravinia, III.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MacCaughey, 515 Vine Street, I'arlc Ridge, 111.; 
Seeretary and Treasurer, 0. Lundy, 5475 Kimlmrk Avenue, 
Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATI—Secretary, J. W. Batman, care Johns-Manvillo Co.
CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN President, Mrs. Eleanor Clark; 
Vice President, Miss Jean Grey; Secretary and Treasurer, Miss 
Catherine M. Allan, 022 East 124th Street.
CLEVELAND—President, George A. Ebeling, Newman-Stern Build­
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. J. Montgomery, 492 East 108th 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 1.2503 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Luiidecn, 13501 Ashburton 
Avenue.
CONNECTICUT—President, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, IC. W. Fin­
lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTON—President, Fred Flader, 2505 West Riverview Avenue; 
Vice President, F. W. Heckcrt, 1127 Grafton Avenue; Secre­
tary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 30.1 Grafton Avenue.
DETROIT—President, W. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse E. & M. 
Company, 1535 Sixth »Street; Secretary and Treasurer, .1. II. 
Miles, Miles-Appleby Company, 4612 Woodward Avenue.
ERIE—Secretary and Treasurer, Edwin Gross, care Hammermill 
Paper Company.
HARRISBURG—President, John G. Todd, 20y2 North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Wood­
bine Street, Harrisburg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20J/i» 
North Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, Ritchie Lawrie, 
116 Locust Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.—Seeretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
JOHNSTQWN—Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
LOS ANGELES—Seeretary and Treasurer, Frederick Kindi, R. D. 7, 
1007 South Stanley Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY CLAN—President, Conrad A. Stone, 
Box 391, Charleroi, Pa.; Vice President, Miss Alice G. Nixon, 
58 Schoonmaker Avenue, Monessen, Pa.; Secretary and Treas­
urer, A. B. Lowstutter, Box 91, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORK—President, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Westches­
ter Park, Tuckahoe, S. Y.; Vice President, M. L. Patterson, 
86 Palisade Avenue, Bogota, N. J.; Secretary, and TreasunT, 
E. M. Gretzler, National Supply Corporation, 120 Broadway.
NORFOLK—President, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt Street ; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
j PHILADELPHIA—President, Paul W. Emmel, 5710 North Seventh 
Street; Vice President, L. E. Exline, 213 South 47th Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, John S. Gieking, 220 Sixteenth St.
PHILADELPHIA CLANS’ OFFICE- -542 Real Estate Trust Bldg.
PITTSBURG/r —President, M. R. Walton, 5838 Alderson Avenue.
SAINT LOUIS -President, Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jefferson Road, 
Webster Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 
Waverly Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Seeretary, M. A. Zeller, 
2128 Railway Exchange Building; Treasurer, Nelson P. J lice/ 
1004 Arcade Building.
TULSA—Temporary Secretary, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 S. Quaker St.
i WASHINGTON, D. C.—President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Miss Harriet Staples, 3G11 S Street, 
N. W.; Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington 
Place. N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN—President, John E. Jackson, 21 Euclid Avenue, 
Struthers, Ohio; Vice President, Harold E. Hildebrand, 327 
Cedar Avenue, Sharon, Pa.; Secretary and Treasurer, Ralph P.
Woodward, 165 Carroll Street, Youngstown, Ohio.
mmtmnmmmmmmmmmmmmu
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announocn n ncrlnti of eight Sat- 
urdny Evening Supper Dnnooti 
In the Rooe Room at 9 o'clock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Davon 
Orchestro.
Call Schcnley 0205 
• for Table Renervatlono.
tmmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmr
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
TYPEWRITTEN AND COPY 
WORK
AT REASONABLE PRICES
Have tlmt thesis typewritten 
and get. a bettor grade. 
Work Absolutely Guaranteed. 
Special Rato to Students 
$1.25 per hour.
Miss Sophie Schützer 
810 Benedtim Tree Building 
221 Fourth Avenue 
Phone Court 4127
unparalleled 
(pok's IndusiveTours 
EUROPE
hrnB giÄ taÄ jiGrGce jRfomaron
Large choice of 
itineraries; tours 
by leading Liners 
every few days 
during season
LF2GVXWoo
Ibnr tvreht all rx/iemr tonr.vbiliftf' Pnrii, Vemilles Brnucls, Antwerp, London, etc.
Our Reputation is Your Guarantee!
THOS. COOK & SON
PHILADELPHIA.
^______130 Soutjt 15th Street______^
Tkat’s the mission of the
Remington Portable
I twill save your time, in college and out of college.
It is the favorite with college students, as it is with every class of user—the recognized leader, 
in sales and popularity.
And the reason is obvious—it is the most compact,complete and convenient portable type- writer. If you take any user’s advice your choice 
wi'l 714 a Remington Portable.
Price, complete with case, $60. Kasy payment 
csrnn if desiretf.
ii today! Call in and let us demonstrate its many ad vantages and superiorities.
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Carnegie Tcch Pout Office 
J. A. DOUGHERTY 
Care Carnegie Tech Poet Office or 
254 Bellcficld Avenue 
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.:£r
flO
be
