Sororities Nominate 9
For Carnival Queen 
t# "It’s spring of leap year, a dangerous season for males, 
but one of opportunity for enterprising young coeds who are 
now asking themselves, which will be it, Miss, Misses or 
Mrs.? ?--------------——"--------------------------
Nine senior sorority girls are 
faced with yet another question, 
which one of them will be Tech’s 
1960 Carnival Queen. Only time 
will givfe the answer to the first«
uestion, but the latter question 
'ill be answered on Call Day of 
Carnival weekend, when the 
queen ana her attendants will be 
announced. -
Leap Year
Leap year or not it will still be 
the male population of the campus 
who will choose the queen. The 
candidates will be officially pre­
sented to the campus on Tuesday,
April 26, at 12:00 on the Fine Arts 
'awn. The sororities will present 
^iheir candidates in a song and 
dance show that will last about 
ten minutes for each group. The 
show's will, of course, all be based 
in the carnival theme, and each 
show will have its individual sub­
theme.
The themes of the carnival 
queen presentations are: Delta
Gamma, Annie Get Your Gun;
Delta Delta "Delta, Pocohontas and 
aptain John Smith; Kappa Alpha 
heta, Sleeping Beauty; Alpha 
Epsilon Phi, Snow White and the
Activity Awards
Sheets for activities points 
toward activities keys and 
awards may be picked up in 
Dr. Strick’s office this week. 
They are to be filled out and 
placed in the Activities Mail 
Box in Dr. Strick’s office or 
sent to Joe Matis, Beta Thefa 
PI house by April 22.
Annual Debate Is 
Won By Duquesne 
With A 7-1 Record
$ Duquesne University posted a 
7-1 record to win the Ninth An­
nual Tartan Debate Tournament 
on March 26 in Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College. Duquesne re­
captured the travelling trophy 
from Pitt, last year’s winner. 
Grove City placed second, and 
Penn State Women third.
Gil McGurl. Tournament Chair­
man, presented the awards at the 
debate banquet at Carnegie Un- 
Hgjon- Both Grove City and Penn 
State won five and lost thnee. 
Mount Mercy and Carnegie Tech 
followed with four and four rec­
ords. Michigan State had a 3-5 
record, and Canisius and St. Vin­
cent finished 2-6.
Student Congress 
Meeting Today
Regular meeting of Student 
Congress today at 4:30 in Por­
ter Hall 100. A proposal for a 
new student judicial system' 
will be discussed. AU stur 
dents who wish activities 
points signed by Jan Chaiken 
should bring them to this 
meeting.
Seven Dwarfs; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, Carmen; Chi Omega, 
Cinderella; Sigma Kappa, a turn­
about on “My Fair Lady” called 
“My Fair Man.”
Only One Showing 
Tuesday afternoon is the only 
time that the shows will be pre­
sented. The sororities will not go 
around to the dorms and frater­
nity houses to put on their shows 
as they have in the past. The so­
rorities did not want to^pend two 
full nights going to all the dorms 
and fraternity houses. Instead 
they wanted to do everything in 
one night, putting on each per­
formance for more than one group 
at a time. However, CFP did. not 
agree to this, so there will be no 
shows at any other time than 
Thursday afternoon this year. The 
queens will be presented as a 
group to the fraternities and men’s 
dorms in the evening of Wednes­
day, April 26. >
Each sorority was allowed to 
nominated two candidates, but 
only ' two did so. Delta Gamma 
has nominated Margie Snodgrass 
and Marianne Hadel. Kappa Kap­
pa Gamma has nominated Terry 
Rudy and Gloria Cofsky. All the 
other .sororities have nominated 
one candidate each. They are: 
Delta Delta Delta, Fran Teviot- 
dale; Kappa Alpha Theta, Jeanne 
Cronin; Alpha Epsilon Phi, Nancy 
Bloom; Sigma Kappa, Mary Knee^ 
land; Chi Omega, Pat Cunning­
ham.
Focal Point 
For Orientation
With fraternity rush and pledg­
ing postponed until mid-semester, 
the familiar pattern of Orientation 
Week will be somewhat altered 
this September. This seems not al­
together undesirable.
In the first place, it has seemed 
in the past that the orientation 
program had no definite focal 
point, especially for freshmen 
men, who were constantly sub­
jected to the diverse pressures of 
rush by the twelve fraternities. In 
fact, I think we can ?»11 remember 
that to the Freshmen Orientation 
Week has been pretty much of a 
mad scramble. This seeming hap­
hazard appearance was quite un­
avoidable despite great effort and 
planning on the parts of past 
Orientation Week Committees: 
there has simply been too much to 
do.
Focal Point
This problem should be effec­
tively eliminated, or at least con­
siderably alleviated in gravity, 
this coming fall, since the only 
fraternity activity will be a gen­
eral Fraternity Orientation Pro­
gram, and rush will be non-exfct- 
ent. Orientation Week will, in 
fact, have a focal point — if all 
goes well—: the new Student Ac­
tivities Center. Not only are sev­
eral orientation events scheduled 
for the Center, but freshmen will 
probably take most of their meals
[coHtinued on page 2]
Easter Assembly 
To Spotlight 
The Resurrection 
«
Tech’s annual Easter assem­
bly will be centered around 
the theme “The Significance of 
the Resurrection.” Tech sen­
iors Larry Campbell, Alan 
Rice, and Dale Weigel will 
give short talks on the evi­
dence concerning the resur­
rection of Jesus, the place this 
event has in theology, and its 
relevance to the lives of all 
men.
' Musical selections “Since by 
Man Came Death” and “God 
So Loved the World” will be 
sung by the Sigma Alpha Iota- 
Phi Mu Alpha chorus. Uur- 
cell’s “Trumpet Voluntary” 
will be played by Charles Tea, 
and BoiTnie Mclntos'h will 
read from Paul’s letter to the 
church at Corinth. The as­
sembly is at 11:30.
Freshman Camp 
Counselors Chosen 
For Coming Year
Personnel of Freshman Camp 
held their first meeting on March
29 between the staff, advisors, and 
the counselors in order to set up 
basic ideas for next year’s camp. 
Serving as advisers this year will 
be Dr. Dale E. Strict, Dr. Robert 
M. Morgan, Mrs. E. R. Swank, and 
Mrs. Virginia Milligan.
Under the leadership of Jackie 
Thurston, Freshman Camp Chair­
man, the counselors will be Pat 
Crecine, Fran Davis, Pat DeRoma, 
Bill Ellis, Steve Ernst, Paul Far­
rell, “Doc” Fetcho, Tom Ference, 
Sally Ganong, Sam Geffner, Andy 
Komer, Nate Leblang, John Lep­
pard, Arlene Logioco, Dave Mears, 
Leila Moore, Betsy Moss, Michael 
Scott Morton, Jan Notopoulos, 
Charles Oberderff, Jean Presnar, 
Barbara Dolland, Larry Rheeling, 
Ann Richter, Jane Scott, Jim 
Sharkey, Kathy Sproat, Despo 
Stavres, Gary Turnquist, Richard 
Uher, Tom Vandersalm, Bob 
Walker, Daniel Whalen, Ted Wil­
liams, and Jean Wilmouth.
Womeit’s Clan 
Offers Aid To 
Senior Women
The Women’s Clan, a local or- 
ganization of Tech alumnae, an­
nually provides scholarships to 
women in the senior classes of 
Margaret Torrison' Carnegie Col­
lege and the College of Fine Arts. 
A committee headed by Mrs. 
Kerschbaumer for the College of 
Fine Arts and Mrs. Thorpe for 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege, will be on campus April 23 
and 28 respectively for interviews 
in connection with the awards.
Students who are interested in 
qualifying for these scholarships 
should, in addition to the forms 
they have submitted to +he Com­
mittee on Financial Aid, complete 
application forms which may be 
obtained in the offices of the deans 
of the respective colleges.
The Women’s Clan would ap­
preciate the return of these form 
by April 13.
Ronnie Grove
Queen of the It’s Military Ball
Bonnie Grove Crowned 
Military Ball Queen
By David C. Pearson
In an elaborated-military ceremony Saturday night, Bon­
nie Grove was crowned Queen of 1960 Military Ball in the 
lush Georgian Room of the Webster Hall Hotel.
Miss Grove, who is Morewood Gardens A-Tower nom­
inee, is a sophomore Biology ma>-----------------------------------------------------------------
jor from Glassport, Pa. Queen of I through the crossed sabers of the 
th4 1959 Military Ball Gloria Cof- j Saber Honor Guard> the five hna}_ 
sky presented the insignia of rank . A ,of Honorary Regimental Comman- j *ts stood ogether on stage as 
der to Miss Grove, and PMST , "ea,led envelope were handed to
Colonel Feeman officially an­
nounced the start of the one year 
reign of Queen Bonnie and her 
court.
Colonel Feeman in ascending or­
der of rank to determine the 
Queen and her court. He named 
Cindy Scott as Honorary Regi-
After being called to the stage menAal Adjutant; Barbara Goetz _________________________________! as Honorary Regimental Execu­
tive; Joyce Clawson as Honorary 
2nd Battalion Commander; Judy 
McKee as Honorary 1st Battalion 
Commander; and Queen Bonnie 
Grove as Honorary Regimental 
Commander.
At the conclusion of thcoro-
onnie
students and their dates arc 
the Georgian Room as the Qut 
first official function. After
Kiltie Band To 
Present Spring 
Concert Tonight
Tech’s famous Kiltie Band will nation ceren>onies, Queen B 
present its 16th Annual Spring j and Colonel Feeman led 
j concert tonight, April 6, aT 8:15 Grand March of all the n 
I p.m. in the Carnegie- Music Hall.
The band, under the direction 
of George E. Reynolds, will pre|-
sent works of Verdi, Sousa, Pro- March, dancing was started 
kofieff, and others, in addition to | again 'with the honored couple 
several lighter works. Features of j starting off with the waltz “True 
the program include numbers by Love.” Good Luck, Miss Grove, 
the colorful Kiltie Pipers, directed : Queen of 1960 Military Ball, 
by Lewis W. Davidson, in his I 
twentieth year in that capacity,! 
and a highland dance by Miss 
Mary E. Davidson. Dr. Frederick ;
Young, a distinguished alumnus, 
will be featured in “Tubby, the i 
Tuba.”
The evening has been declared 
“Men’s Clan Night” and many j 
alumni from the area will be gath- I 
ered together for the occasion. (
The alumni group will present the 
band a check for uniforms and i 
instruments.
Tickets for the concert may be; 
purchased at the door on the'
I evening of the performance.
Student Congress 
Elections
Due to lack of participation, 
the deadline for Student Con­
gress nomination has been ex­
tended until Friday, April 8. 
Those persons interested in 
running for Student Congress 
are reminded to sign up in Dr. 
£trick’s office, A.H. 150 not 
later than this date.
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53—NUMBER 20 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 1960
t

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, April 6, 196®
Debate Club
Carnegie Tech will meet Harv­
ard University in a public debate 
at 100 Porter Hall on Wednesday, 
April 6, at 8:30’p.m.
A two-man team from each 
school will debate this year’s in­
ter-collegiate topic, Resolved, That 
Congress Should Have the Power 
to Reverse Decisions of the Su­
preme Court.
John Berg and Keith Springen 
will debate the affirmative side of 
the resolution for Carnegie Tech. 
Harvard is appearing in Pitts­
burgh during its annual spring 
tour. The debate will be spon­
sored by Hillel and the Debating 
Union.
Alpha Phi Omega
Alpha Phi Omega wishes to in­
form all organizations—governing 
bodys, honoraries, departmental 
clubs, publications, religious ac­
tivities, fraternities, sororities, and 
others—wishing to be listed in 
next year’s “C” Book that forms 
for this purpose are now available 
in room 150 A.H. and should be 
completed as soon as possible.
WRCT
There will be a staff meeting on 
Friday, April 8, to vote on the 
constitution.
UMOC Contest
Fraternities and campus organi­
zations don’t forget to choose 
your candidate for the “Ugliest 
Man on Campus Contest.” A 5” 
by 7” photograph of your candi­
date with his name and the name 
of his sponsoring organization 
should be given to Colin Jones, 
General Delivery, CIT or at A-29 
Donner Hall by this Friday, April 
8. The voting will be from April 
25 to 29 and will be unlimited at 
a penny a vote with the proceeds 
going to the Campus Chest. So 
help the Campus Chest and sub­
mit a candidate for the “Ugliest 
Man on Campus.”
Physics Society
There will be a meeting of the 
Tech Physics Society at 4:30 in 
E.H. 1212 on Tuesday, April 12. 
Members who haven’t already 
done so may pay their dues and 
receive their membership cards at 
that time.
International Club
‘Is dating a form of mental 
prostitution?” *— this topic will 
be discussed by speakers of op­
posite sexes on Sunday, April 10 
at 8:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Union 
Refreshments will be served as 
usual.
Orientation—
[continued from page 1] 
there, and thus be given an op­
portunity for something which has 
seemed gravely, lacking in the 
past: completely informal, unhur­
ried mixing.
Then to picture the coming 
Orientation Week, it is only neces­
sary to imagine the standard pro­
gram with all fraternity rush de­
leted; all the other standard parts 
of the program, such as Freshman 
Camp, Dean’s Reception, Tours, 
Tests, and Sports Day, essentially 
unchanged in form but several 
shifting to the Activities Center, 
and the entire period generally 
somewhat more relaxed.
Omicron Delta Kappa
Juniors who received letters 
from Omicron Delta Kappa are 
reminded to submit their replies 
to A.H. 150 before Monday, April 
11.
W arning, S’nS Publicity 
May Include Elephants
With only five weeks remaining before Spring Carnival, 
Tech students should hang on to" their hats, get a good hold 
on their nerves, and start looking for the signs of Scotch 
and Soda opening night.
Pat Moore, S&S publicity direc­
tor, hints that any student seeing 
such things as a herd of elephants 
on The Cut needn’t doubt his san­
ity. Scotch and Soda advertising
stunts are planned to create some 
of the excitement that character­
ize Tech’s campus in the spring. 
Innovation 
The startling innovation of this
year’s production, “On The Rocks,** 
is a commercially-produced record 
of the show. Released on opening 
night, it will be available in the 
C.I.T. Bookstore and in record 
shops in Pittsburgh.
There will be a special price 
for those attending the show. The 
entire repertoire of musical num­
bers, ranging from Chinese mu|Jp 
to calypso, will be on the record. 
This is one of the first times that 
a college presentation has been re­
corded- on professional discs that 
are released to the public.
IN ITS EIGHTH 
MONTH OF PRODUCTION
Ápril 14
THE GARRETT CORPORATION
AiResearch Divisions
will be on campus to interview
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
B.S. - M.S. - Ph.D. candidates
#"L eappLYY rSphSpaYsSf is one of the most 
diverse research, engineering and manu­
facturing organizations in the aircraft, 
missile and technological fields.
From AiResearch laboratories have 
come pioneer developments in aircraft and 
missile components and systems. Today 
90% of the free world’s aircraft use 
AiResearch equipment.
Other Garrett divisions and subsidiaries 
are creating a variety of products, including
industrial turbochargers and survival 
equipment, as well as supplying sales and 
service to airframe companies, airlines and 
the military.
Project work is conducted by small 
groups in which individual effort is more 
quickly recognized and opportunities for 
learning and advancement are enhanced.
With company financial assistance, you 
can continue your education at fine neigh­
boring universities. *
• TYPICAL PROJECT ACTIVITIES •
Electronic air data computers, pressure ratio trans­
ducers, instruments, electrical systems and motors 
and generators.
Preliminary design, from analytical and theoreti­
cal considerations, for high-level technical work in 
aerodynamics, stress analysis, thermodynamics, heat 
transfer, cryogenics, pneumatics, nuclear power and 
mathematics.
Auxiliary power units and hydraulic and hot gas
control systems for various types of missiles.Air and vapor cycle refrigeration turbines, pneu* matically and mechanically driven compressors.Gas turbine engine and other high speed rotating machinery design and analysis involving gas dynamics, thermodynamics and aerodynamics.Air and spacecraft environmental control systems involving air and cryogenic valves and controls and heat transfer equipment.
• ORIENTATION PROGRAM •
In addition to direct assignments, an eight-, and work with engineers who are outstand-
month orientation program is available to ing in their fields. Your orientation may
aid you in job selection. You participate include familiarization with sales, contract
in Garrett project and laboratory activities administration and production.
• JOB OPPORTUNITIES •
Thermodynamics 
Aerodynamics 
Missile Hot Gas and 
Hydraulic Systems 
Combustion Analysis 
Chemical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Instrumentation Design 
Gas Turbine Engines 
Stress and Vibration Analysis 
Preliminary Design 
Physics 
Gear Design
Laboratory Engineering 
Cryogenics 
Pneumatics 
Mathematics 
Electrical Engineering 
Transistors 
Instrument Design 
Electronics
Analog Computer Design 
Cycle Analysis 
Control Engineering 
Computer Programming 
Space Physics and Ionization 
Sales Engineering
Missile Turbine Accessory 
Power Units 
Magnetic Amplifiers 
Liquid Oxygen Systems 
Air Turbines
Freon Centrifugal Compressors 
Turbocompressors 
Welding Engineering 
Sensors and Servos 
Connecting Networks 
Electronic Flight Data Systems, 
Controls and Transistor Circuitry 
Air Conditioning and Heat 
Transfer
THECORPORATION
«
O
o
a
685 1 «. SEFULVEDA BLVO., LOS ANGELES 48. CALIFORNIA
OIVISIONS: AIRESEARCH MANUFACTURING. LOS ANGELES • AIRESEARCH MANUFACTURING. PHOENIX • AIRSUFFLY 
AIRESEARCH INDUSTRIAL. • AERO ENGINEERIN O • AM CR UlSERS • AIRESEARCH AVIATION 9ERVICK

---------------------------------------------------

ße a Part of "America's Top Collegiate Musical
¦ Join the 
Scotch 'N
First Big Technical Meeting
Lighting, House, Sets, Running, Costumes, efc.
AT 10 A. M. ALL STUDENTS INVITED
SATURDAY, APRIL 9 CARNEGIE TECH GYM
alumni, present students, faculty, 
and administration will gather 
May 7 at 6:00 p.m. at the Colonial 
Manor near Irwin rn Route 30. 
They will enjoy a banquet, door 
prizes, speeches, dancing, and a 
floor show.
Presiding as master of cere­
monies will be Dr. Robert Ram­
say, Assistant Director of the 
Evening Classes at C.I.T., him­
self a teacher of psychology to 
both day and night classes. Dr. 
Ramsay has spent four years ac­
tively promoting the common in­
terests of the evening classes and 
Pittsburgh industry. His visits to 
the educational and personnel of­
fices of companies employing Tech 
^pvening students have made him 
widely known in these circles.
All persons related in any way 
to the evening classes function of 
Carnegie Tech are '.j'rdially in­
vited to attend. The date is May 
Qu so there is still plenty of time
5AM ROSS
TUXEDOS
pri ngofgle ay,d
Mu 2-7310
uml Heart of Oaklandb
Blue and Black 
Tuxedos 
White Dinner Jackets
Student Discount
LEWIS
RADIO • ELECTRIC CO 
Sales - Repairs 
RADIOS 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
HIGH FIDELITY
115 OAKLAND AVE. 
MA 1.4211
enofthM intl ahreyByoM nDDbey Dnl DtlMCyl AyMrbhf
Wednesday, April 6, 1960—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
INTERVIEWS AT
Carnegie Tech, 
April 7 and 8
DpP OmgUPsPcgOcSU cmg sPcgOcSU ISOgUmSI KcHpPkms km
AERONAUTICAL, MECHANICAL, 
ELECTRONIC, ELECTRICAL AND 
CIVIL ENGINEERING
dROI sPcgOcSU ISOgUmSI KcHpPkms km
PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS
^ This page edited by Evening School Students of the
W Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor..................................................................Mary Alice Pererson
epmGckPErISPpmcOSk?I: sPUcS mUW TF€ KkRRkpm wc?kRkS- km fcm AkUsp 
WcI ?PUcSUg IpRUR- wpP SNU dOPdpIU pw dOSSkms rKUPk?c wkPIS cmg 
wcPSNUIS kmSp Idc?UL CUPUu sPcgOcSUI WkRR dcPSk?kdcSU km SNU dPpsPcK 
pw SNU mcSkpm:I KksNSkUIS KkIIkRUu SNU rSRcI beYBu WNk?N dpWUPUg SNU 
bkssUIS IcSURRkSU kmSp pPbkSL nSNUP dPpsPcKI kmGpRGU ROmcP cmg 
kmSUPdRcmUScP- UxdRpPcSkpmL Bcm- KUKbUPI pw pOP IScww Pcmk cKpms 
SNU WpPRg:I RUcgkms cOSNpPkSkUI km SNUkP wkURgI — gkISkmsOkINUg 
I?kUmSkISI cmg UmskmUUPI Sp gkPU?S -pOP ?cPUUP dPpsPUIIL WU OPsU -pO 
p gkI?OII -pOP wOSOPU cS epmGckPErISPpmcOSk?I WkSN OIL
CONVAIR/ASTRONAUTICS
ConvaDivisionGENERALDYNAMICS
ATLAS ICBM
cmg sPUcSR- c??URUPcSUg
SATELLITE
PROGRAMS
cwd Robert Ramsay
To be Master of Ceremonies at 
Evening Student Banquet.
optfißl&cfcg
TECHNICAL PRODUCTION IS UNDERWAY!
Dr. Ramsey Will Be 
Toastmaster At Banquet
Attending the Carnegie Tech evening student’s banquet 
«as become an eagerly awaited yearly event for hundreds of 
people in the greater Pittsburgh area. 
This year the evening family, consisting of friends,? ----------------------------------
to plan. Information on tickets 
may be obtained by calling the 
Offica of the Registrar oi Evening 
Classes, C.I.T.
a

---------------------------------------------------

ml hk, vMhhf, gle Ml .M?w kg?w 
hk, e?--,w,l—, ?" —f,gwf. hk,w,N
kl* WfÎÛS INI
item
Emphasis on philosophy of getting dates. Background of dateless stu­
dents who use sticky hair creams or alcohol hair tonics. Fundamental 
logic of students who have discovered that ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic takes 
care of hair even when used with water. Philosophy of the Enlighten­
ment: one may use all the water one wants with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. 
Students who use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic ¿Ami—therefore they are sought 
after by lovely females. Cause: ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic..Effect: Dates.
Materials: one 4 oz. bottle‘Vaseline’Hair Tonic
•VASELINE’ IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGM-PONQ’S, INC
Pape 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, April 6, 1960
Associate Editor ............................. ........................................................................... Frank J. Baloh
Advertising Manager  ................................................................................... Miles Holander
News Editor...............................................i................................................................. Jan Notopoulos
Assistant, New s Editor :.................................................................................................... Phil James
Sport* Editor ............................................................................................................ C'hurk Vodvarka
Copy Editor ............................................................................................................ Mary Ann Melton
Layout Editor ........................................................................................................ Jim Whalen
Photography Editor .................................................................................................... Steve Putman
Features Editor—Georgia White, Assistant Business Manager— 
Joe Yevich, Secretary—Audrey Dolan, Circulation Manager—Bob 
Miller, Transportation—Bob Gregory.
News Staff—George Logan, Maxine Brown, Vince Freund, Cindy 
Scott, Carla Blank, Andrea Nether, Janice Engeman. Dave Pearson, 
Elaine Grumer, Pat Murray.
Advertising Staff—Allan Kullen, Harvey Berlin.
Sports Staff—John Scongo, Mike Berman, Denny Ross, Sherm 
Shottiner, Bob Reber, Bob Miller, Joe Olfield, Glenn Klepac, Charley 
DeVaux, Bob Walker, Joe Lang.
Copy Staff — Janis Geisler, Judy Slye, Pattie Plate, Maureen 
Marks, Spence Anderson. Natalie Selkovits. Ellen Moskal. 
Circulation Staff—Pete Kost.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inty------^_______" ______ ' ________" ' ~ 1
DON’T BE LEFT 
OUT. JOIN . . .
AMERICA S TOP iOSi TJHlBCOLLEGE MUSICAL! ^ VJ.
'op the rocks
^ APPLIED PHILOSOPHY 221 
Thought Process of Women 
Dr. A. TractChief Justice
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. »
Editor.................................................................................................................... Jeremiah 1). Sullivan
t#"Lea"" pYeYraShhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh h . Mike Balsam
Guest Editorial ?
Kiltie Band---What’s That?
Each year the Kiltie Band presents two concerts at Carnegie Music Hall—one of them 
this evening—and at each concert a mere handful of people are present to enjoy the event. 
It is quite discouraging to members of the band seeing such a small audience in their own 
bailiwick when they have seen large appreciative audiences in Harrisburg, Clevelend and 
New York.
' Fine Concert Program
The Kiltie Band offers the opportunity to hear and enjoy a fine concert program se­
lected from the finest band repertoire, and performed by one of the top bands in the coun­
try, Proof of the prestige of the Kiltie Band is shown by the invitation /given the band 
this year to play for the Pennsylvania Music Educators Association.
Students of Tech should take price in this outstanding organization and give it their 
support by coming to the concert tonight jn the Carnegie Music Hall at 8:15 p.m.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Panty Raids
Editor, the Tartan:V
As most of us know, in the spring of 1959 Carnegie wit­
nessed a panty-raid. The Supreme Court of Student Congress 
wishes to review the consequences of such an act in view of 
the precedence established by the trial held at that time.
As a result of the trial during the spring semester of last 
year, the following conclusions were drawn; (1) A mob of 
Tech students engaging in detrimental activity (e.g. a panty- 
raid) tends to bring derogatory publicity to the name of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. (2) A mob is defined as 
five or more students. (3) The mere presence in such a mob 
is evidence of guilt. (Therefore, if a panty-raid, or other 
detrimental activity, takes place, the spectators as well as 
the instigators will be prosecuted.)
The reasoning behind making the consequences for such 
activity so severe is that some grants made to the school were 
retracted as a result of last year’s incident despite the fact 
that its seriousness was not great. Since no control over the 
ramifications of such activity exists, it is evident that the 
detrimental activity itself must be avoided.
Fruit
Editor, Tartan:
Dear Editor;
This letter is not one of com­
plaint, but rather one of petition. 
The request is to have fruit-dis­
pensing machines installed at vari­
ous places on campus or at least 
in Web Hall. Many of us com­
muters and residents, too, at times 
have only a few minutes in which 
to grab something to eat. Besides 
being healthful and convenient to 
the students, the machines are 
profitable. I have seen them in­
stalled at other schools; one even 
had them located in the class­
room buildings’ hallways. I’m 
sure there are many people who 
will agree with me *vhen I say 
that I’d much prefer spending a 
dime for a chilled apple than 500 
calories of chocolate goo.
Sincerely,
Barbara McCallum.
Sincerely,
Robert T. Anselmi
Sociology
Spin a platter... have some chatter.. * 
and sip that real great taste of 
Sure, you can have a party without 
Coca-Cola—but who wants to!
BE REALLY REFRESHED
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
sfociv nwowi dkdoydkmo tkwwmbuD dkh 
.’TT daelSYA oMah Bb xy’Jxx

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 6, 1960—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
d. ROTC
Guidon
q Editor: Ed Werner
Pershing Rifles Will 
Compete In Capital
The Pershing Rifles Drill Team will take part in the 
Cherry Blossom Festival this week in Washington, D. C. 
Seventy-five drill teams will complete in trick drills for 
tikphies this Friday and Saturday. Saturday evening’s parade
marks the climax of the week-*- --------------------------
long festival.
Parade units will include the 
competing drill teams, high school 
bands, and other organizational 
units from all over the. country, 
attending the festival by special 
invitation from the Cherry Blos­
som Festival Committee.
(IThe gala affair is opened by a 
representative of the Japanese 
Government in commemoration of 
their gift of Washington’s cherry 
trees in the early history of our 
government.
The Tech Drill Team has been 
completely reorganized this year, 
and prospects for a successful 
competitive season are good. This 
(^ek’s competition team is com­
prised of sixteen men and the 
drill master. Four Tech pipers will 
accompany the Pershing Rifles 
Team to Washington and will 
march with them in Saturday’s 
parade. Students attending the 
Cherry Blossom Festival will be 
quartered ,at Ft. Belvoir, Va.
This week’s competition will 
no effect on Tech’s Regi­
mental and Battalion standings. 
The next kegimental Drill com­
petition will be held on April 23 
at Indiantown Gap, Pa. Points are 
awarded for platoon, squad, and 
individual competition. Regimental 
and Battalion Trophies are award­
ed at the end of the seasonal com­
petition on these bases.w~i——"
T1996a0CQTnO9O
Sheraton Hotels 
STUDENT-FACULTY 
DISCOUNTS
CUPU’I KpmU-EIcGkms mUWIfor students, faculty and all other college personnel. Dur­ing weekends and college vacations, Sheraton offers you special low rates — even lower rates when two or more occupy the same room. Special group rates are pro­vided for athletic teams, clubs, other college organ­izations.You get these discounts at any of Sheraton’s 54 hotels in the U.S.A., Hawaii and Canada by presenting a M* Sheraton Card. To get a Sheraton Student I.D. Card or Faculty Guest Card with credit privileges, write us. Please state where you are a full time faculty member or student.
Mr. Pat Green 
College Relation» Dept. 
Sheraton Corporation 
470 Atlantic Avenue 
¦oiton 10, Mat».
TECHNICAL CREWS 
WILL NOW BEGIN
optbefôcks
Engineers To 
Visit Missile Master 
Project Tomorrow
Tomorrow afternoon, the Car­
negie Tech Society of American 
Military Engineers’ Student Chap­
ter is sponsoring a field trip to a 
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ 
missile master project. The tour 
of the project, which is under 
construction and not yet opera­
tional, is open to all interested 
male students, both ROTC and 
non-RC 'C.
Those students interested in 
making the trip will meet the 
bus in front of Administration 
Hall at 1:00 p.m. tomorrow. The 
tour of the Oakdale project will 
last approkimately two hours, with 
return to the Tech campus at 4:30.
The Oakdale Missile Master is 
part of a complex of North Amer­
ican Air Defense Command Con­
trol Centers now under construc­
tion throughout the country. These 
will be tied in with existing radar 
and ground, warning systems as 
protection for prime enemy tar­
gets such as industrial centers.
On Walking Across The North 
End Of The Parking Lot To 
Forbes Street And Sinking 
Up To The Ankles hi Mud
From seas of mud, churned up by wheels and treads of 
countless ’dozers, making parking lots mud swamps to 
traverse;
From endless noise, made by machines which go in cir­
cles, taking dirt from here and putting it ther.e, until another 
machine puts it back;
From alleged sewer lines, requiring apparently years to 
install, blocking access to parking lots and bringing more of 
the omnipresent mud;
From countless holes, wombs of buildings-to-be that are 
born slowly, ever so slowly, fourteen months in gestation 
without having .one complete wall of the one-story building 
to show completed;
From the mud on the streets, the dump trucks parked 
double, the loss of sidewalks to walk on, parking lots to park 
in, cafeterias to eat in, and from the snail-like pace of the 
building;
From George A. Fuller Co., Building Construction
Oh Summer, Deliver Us.
9ocpiv nw*
•vddd - s kyymbd
The most difficult puzzle in the world
cM .M? kgy, g "Mf?h?Ml'
In high school, you may have thought you had 
the solution, only to have it vanish. In college, 
it may seem well within your grasp, only to 
vanish again. But this is not unusual. It’s a very 
difficult puzzle.
The puzzle? How to find your life’s work. The solution? It comes 
only with searching. It may be right under your nose or it may still 
be far away in the future.
But the solution will come. You will very probably find it in the work 
you undertake after college.
This has proved true many times at IBM. For instance, young engi­
neers and scientists — after learning the scope of IBM activities in 
research, development and manufacturing—have found their inter­
ests leading them into sufch vital growth fields as microwaves, circuit 
design, solid state physics, magnetics and manufacturing research. 
Depending on individual talents and inclinations, a college graduate 
may acquire skills at IBM that lead to a variety of careers.
When a person is able to move into areas where his true interests lie, 
and when he has many areas to choose from, it will certainly be easier 
for him to find his life’s work.
After all, it’s easier to find the solution to The Most Difficult Puzzle 
in the World when you have access to all the clues.IBM
t You are invited to investigate opportunities in Research, Development, Manufac­
turing, Programming, and other fields. Your Placement director can tell you when 
our representatives will next visit your campus. Or you may write to: Manager of 
Technical Employment, bept. 873, IBM Corporation, 590 Madison Avenue, New 
York 22, N. Y.
a

---------------------------------------------------

THE ELECTRONICS ARM OF GENERAL DYNAMICS
Provides Opportunity 
for Creative Thinking in 
Advanced Research & Development
Projects at Stromberg-Carlson provide the MS or PhD with 
opportunity to continue investigations into state-of-the-art advances 
in many areas. A professional climate exists which fosters creative 
thinking on original work and individual investigation.
The merger in 1955 with General Dynamics Corporation also 
enlarges the professional scope of the Stromberg-Carlson engineer. 
Through a policy of cooperation among the 8 Generai Dynamics 
divisions, knowledge in diverse fields of endeavor is pooled for the 
benefit of all.
TYPICAL OF ADVANCED DEGREE ASSIGNMENTS:
CIRCUIT ANALYSIS
A. PhD’s in Physics or Electronics. To investigate specialized problems in sys­tem and circuit analysis and synthesis. Knowledge and interest iri information theory, microwave theory and proba­bility studies.
B. MS in Physics or Electronics. To work on systems, circuit analysis and synthesis problems relating to digital communications equipment. Requires strong mathematical preparation with knowledge and interest in digital circuitry.
MOLECULAR ELECTRONICS
A. PhD Physics. To conduct investiga­tive studies on magnetic thin films and semi-conductor high frequency devices. Educational specialization in Solid State physics and interest in micro­wave resonance effects.
ACOUSTICS < 
UNDERWATER ACOUSTICS
A. PhD in Physics. To conduct analyt­ical investigations in the field of acoustics involving electromechanical transducer design, dynamics of struc­tures and properties of materials. Interest in conventional resonant'transducers and coupling structures.
B. PhD in Electronics, Physics. To conduct fundamental studies in hydro­acoustics, in detection and classification. Interest in attenuation, transducers, magnetic fields.
OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS & 
RELIABILITY
A. MSEE,Physics or Math. PhD desir­able. To work on evaluation of major electronic systems and to develop eval­uation techniques. Knowledge of sam­pling techniques, statistical methods, semi-automatic data reduction and pre­sentation. Educational emphasis on Operations Research.
B. BSEE with Advanced Degree in Math or Statistics. To carry out elec­tronic equipment reliability studies by statistical analysis. Should be able to program IBM 650. Will serve as a con­sultant to product design engineers on modern computer methods in design 
analysis.
DIGITAL AREAS
A. MSEE. To conduct studies and per­form advanced development work in areas of binary data transmission. Educational emphasis and interest in information theory, network analysis, transient analysis and servo systems.
B. MSEE with heavy math. To work on problems of analog to digital conver­sion. Background and interest in sam­pling techniques, differential amplifiers and reference voltage sources.
C. PhD in Physics or EE. To conduct research in Solid State digital tech­niques and serve in a consultant capac­ity to product design personnel.
COMMUNICATIONS
A. MSEE, PhD desirable. To conduct advanced studies in radio communica­tions areas. Educational emphasis on Solid State circuitry, modulation and coding techniques.
B. PhD in EE or Mathematics. To con­duct basic studies in communications, using all mediums, but with principal emphasis on water as a medium.
SYSTEMS PLANNING
A. MSEE, PhD desired. To examine, analyze and design new systems and products in the area of high density global and inter-global communica­tions systems. Interest and preparation in areas of multiplex, microwave and high-frequency long-distance radio communications.
B. MSEE or MS Physics with PhD desirable. To analyze system require­ments and conceive new approaches in areas covering real time7store and for­ward message «witching systems. Edu­cational emphasis in transistors, diodes, magnetic core, logic and millimicro­second pulse techniques.
C. MSEE, Physics or Math. To exam­ine and analyze new system configura­tions for sophisticated military global and inter-global communications sys­tems. Heavy math or statistics required for calculation of trunking require­ments on new systems.
PROPERTIES OF MATERIALS
A. PhD in Physics or Doctorate, Sci­ence. To conduct investigative analyses in the utilization of new materials in transducers or speakers. Special em­phasis on plastics and plastic coatings would be helpful.
PROFFESSIONAL INTERVIEWS at CIT
MONDAY, APRIL 11
Make arrangements with your Placement Office now 
to see the Stromberg-Carlson representative.
Or write for brochure to Charles E. Evans.
STROM B E RG - CAR US O N 
* o.v.sion of GENERAL DYNAMICS
1450 N. Goodman St., Rochester 3, New York
6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday. April 6, I960
Tech Fraternities In Midst Of Greek Week
Beginning on Monday of this 
week and continuing until next 
Monday, April 11, Tech fraterni­
ties have been engaged in the an­
nual Greek Week program.
This week is designed to allow
officers of the various houses to 
get together and discuss mutual 
problems and to exchange ideas. 
Already several meetings have 
been held following the opening 
event, the Carnegie Tech Execu­
tive Board-CFP Banquet held on 
Monday.
Remaining events are:
Apr. 6—S o c i a I chairmen— 
BSR, Pledge mar­
shalls— KS.
Apr. 7—R u s h chairmen —• 
SAE; Alumni con­
tact officers—DU. 
Apr. —Greek Week parties. 
Apr. 11—CFP and fraternity 
adviers meeting.
It is hoped that active partici­
pation by all fraternities will im­
prove not only individual groups, 
but the fraternity system in gen­
eral.
S The Famous Student EUROPEAN TOURf €
I 7 COUNTRIES * ft M r all SEE Europe as few I 
| 72 DAYS «nty *945 muitm spenVl TeVfcys 2
P Also available without transatlantic transportation with u family.......®
¦ TRAVEL & CULTURAL EXCHANGE, Inc. Meet students from H 
H 550 Fiftfc Ave., N. Y. 36. N. Y. Tel. Cl 5-0594 all over the world, yI ¦lllMIIIIMIIIMIMIIIMIIliWIIIMIIMIMIIlMMilllllWIMlMilMIWMIl
EE’s, PHYSICISTS, MATHEMATICIANS-WS & PhD
STROMBERG-CARLSON
with 
MsKShnJman
D.’Y"Sp ST lA kaM a #LLfoaBL xvapTJi ,i#"L PafI 
RSgLM ST xSCsL e4,sM:i LYw30
NO PARKING”
*
This experiment—combining dentistry with mining engineer* 
ing—has already been tried at several colleges—and with som« 
very interesting results. Take, for instance, the case of a dental 
student named Fred C. Sigafoos. One day recently Fred was 
out practicing with his drilling rig in a vacant lot just off 
"'campus. He sank a shaft two hundred feet deep and, to hi* 
surprise and delight, he struck a detergent mine. For a while 
Fred thought his fortune was made but he soon learned that 
_he had drilled into the storage tank of the Eagle Laundry. 
Walter P. Eagle, president of the laundry, was mad as all get- 
out and things looked mighty black for Fred. But it all ended 
well. When Mr. Eagle called Fred into his office to chew him 
out, it so happened that Mr. Eagle’s beautiful daughter, Patient 
Griselda, was present. For years Patient Griselda had been 
patiently waiting for the right man. “That’s him!” she cried 
upon spying Fred—and today Fred is a full partner in the Eagle 
Laundry in charge of pleats and ruffles. ®1800 M*x 1
* * *
Speaking of laundries reminds us of cleanliness which in 
turn reminds us of filtered Marlboros and unfiltered Philip 
Morris—both clean and fresh to the taste—both available 
. in soft pack-and flip-top box.
As everyone knows, the most serious problem facing American 
colleges today is the shortage of parking space for students’ cars.
Many remedies have been offered to solve this vexing dilemma. 
For instance, it has been suggested that all students be required 
to drive small foreign sports cars which can be carried in the 
purse or pocket. This would, of course, solve the parking prob­
lem but it would make double dating impossible—unless, that 
is, the boys make the girls run along behind the car. But that 
is no solution either because by the time they get to the prom 
the girls will be panting so hard that they will wilt their corsages.
Another suggested cure for our parking woes is that all 
students smoke Marlboro cigarettes. At first glance this seems 
an excellent solution because we all know Marlboro is the 
cigarette which proved that flavor did not go out when filters 
came in—and when we sit around and smoke good Marlboros 
we are so possessed by sweet contentment that none of us 
wishes ever to leave, which means no gadding about which 
means no driving, which means no parking problem.
But the argument in favor of Marlboros overlooks one im­
portant fact: when you run out of Marlboros you must go get 
some more, which means driving, which means parking, which 
means you're right back where you started.
Probably the most practical suggestion to alleviate the campus 
parking situation is to tear down every school of dentistry in 
the country and turn it into a parking lot. This is not to say 
that dentistry is unimportant. Gracious, no! Dentistry is im­
portant and vital and a shining part of our American heritage. 
But the fact is there is no real need for separate schools of den­
tistry. Dentistry could easily be moved to the school of mining 
engineering. Surely anyone who can drill a thousand feet for
oil can fill a simple little cavity.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 6» 1960—CARNEGIE TARTAN—April 7
Softball D 
Season 
L Starts
CdBrnegle Tartan
­,gh O?gs 
Wins 
Swim
Beta Sig’s Win IM Swim Meet; 
Medley Team Breaks Record
The blue and gold from Beta 
Sig ran away with the swimming 
meet on March 17, behind fine ef­
forts of Andy Merson, Jay Alpert, 
Mike Berman, Dick- Desberg and 
Charlie Marks.
Beta Sig’s closest competition 
came from SAE who finished with 
26 points compared to the winner’s 
39. Besides winning the swimming 
meet trophy, the Beta Sig’s copped 
four of the seven individual 
events. GSIA took third with 14 
points, while Sigma Nu settled for 
fourth with 10 points.
Meet Opener 
The meet started with the Beta 
Sig medley team of Merson, Al­
pert and Berman hitting a record 
time of 1:36 to take the event. 
Charlie Hastings of SN then pro­
ceeded to sweep the 50 yard free- 
for the second straight year 
a time of 26.8. Si Falk of 
then broke the record for
the 50 yard breast stroke with a 
fantastic time of 33.1 Merson of 
Beta Sig then swept the individ­
ual 50 yard back stroke event with 
a record time of 31.3.
Free Style Eventsc 
The Beta Sigs kept up their 
winning pace with freshman Dick 
Desberg winning the 100 yard 
freestyle with a time of one min­
ute flat. SAE’s Bob Reber then 
took the honors in the grueling 
150 yard freestyle event. The win­
ners then took the final event of 
the evening, the 200 yard freestyle 
relay with their team of Desberg, 
Merson, Alpert and Berman.
optjisjödis
­A OTn9T2 u: Onca 
FmQQ ­C 9C66m^mTN
Back Row, Left to Right: Bor Gorden, SAE; sieve Rothenberg, TDP; Bob Walker, SAE. Front 
Row, Left to Right: Owen Johnson,
ONE OF THE MOST 
JOBS IN BUSINESS TODAY
He’s a computer programmer.
:’s a job that didn’t even exist until a few years ago. But today it’s one 
of the most important—and certainly most unusual—jobs that a college 
graduate can do. Data processing systems, with their advanced technol­
ogies and tremendous speeds, offer new challenges to college graduates. 
It is a field for new ideas, new methods, and new techniques.
Setting Up The Problem
A computer programmer analyzes a business, industrial, or scientific 
problem, and translates it into a language which "the computer can 
“understand.” From there the computer goes to work witji prodigious 
speed and accuracy. Often it can solve problems in minutes, which 
take days or even weeks, if done by other methods.
The assignments are interesting. IBM programmers have programmed 
computers to tell businessmen the best locations for new factories; help 
engineers design electronic circuitry; aid manufacturers in finding the 
most profitable potential market for new products; work out payroll 
or quality-control problems at the push of a few buttons; and even 
analyze how other computer programs should be developed.
Your Logical Abilities Go To Work
No previous experience, or even knowledge of the way computers work, 
is necessary to begin a career as a computer programmer. But you 
should have the talent and ability to analyze complex problems, to think 
clearly and to express yourself well. These, plus a college degree with 
two years of college mathematics, are important prerequisites.
If you qualify as a computer programmer, you will be given an inten­
sive training course in the problem-solving methods of the computer. 
The salaries are excellent, and your future could be as unlimited as the 
future of the computer itself. If you think you might be interested in 
becoming a computer programmer, you can obtain more details from 
the IBM representative who can be contacted through your College 
Placement Director.
Or write, outlining your background and interests, to:
Manager of Technical Employment, Dept. 875 
IBM Corporation
590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
menu includes Caffee Ex- 
, Parfaits, Baklava and 
Fine Pastries, Fancy 
Sandwiches. Res- 
may be made for 
afternoon parties. The Art 
Gallery downstairs offers our 
patrons an opportunity to 
view the work of outstanding 
Pittsburgh artists in monthly 
one-man and group exhibi­
tions.
4620 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
MUseum 2-7784

---------------------------------------------------

WHAT A RECORD!!
' 10 GREAT JAZZ NUMBERS
BcPSkcmI* hORRcb- BcP?N nw MNU Mp-I
lp-cR GcPgUm YROUI JOIS r Bppg
fNkmU nm CcPGUIS Bppm 
yPPpRR’I YpOm?U fSL JcKUI bmwkPKcP-
ekPkbkPkbkm Mkm lppw YROUI
WNUm MNU fckmSI Gp BcP?Nkms bm
PLAYED BY YOUR FAVORITE ARTISTS
YUmm- GppgKcm hpOkI rPKISPpms 
yPPpRR GcPmUP fNpPS- lpsUPI 
JpmcN JpmUI AOkU yRRkmsSpm
YUm WUbISUP lUg opPGp k’’:E:::::"*"*E
Ypb f?pbU- YO?k eRc-Spm Ì
Vk? Ak?kUmIpm
lUx fSUWcPS Ru
AOkUI*pw AkxkURcmg
,vkPu o Pbmmbopnku wktoddk dkvIkvowbku 
R,g Cnn
A4#L"MLAAh x: cael#30­ i
IAaY"a "aeH 1a j4"ljYLH''''''Sa34SHU"O 4F l«a nja3LYA Ebdivk“
dopIfn ”oWW GinwbEomh ie3A4"aH LY -xhJJ Ue4 "lY1jR: jAaY"aO 
YeH T a1jl­ EL3aS4­ jY30Yra" F4S aY3« Sa34SHh4SHaSaHh
d4AAara 4S feLMaS"Ll­yyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy Vyhhhh8
This offer good only in U.S.A. Not valid in state« where prohibited, 
taxed or otherwise restricted—expires June 30. 1900.
All-School Bowling Team
Left to Right: Phil Dowd, Dave Harvey, Bob Reber and Ed McEwen. Kent McClean was not 
present for the picture.
Sigma Nu Looking 
For Soccer Crown
Led by Bob Konuch, Sigma Nu#
i bious honor of scoring one of the
slipped past ATO in the sixth i defeated a green SAE squad 2-0. 
overtime and entered the semi- ! Bil1 sProul of SAE had the du" 
finals of the IM Soccer tourney.
ATO broke into the scoring 
first, but Sigma Nu quickly tied 
the score at 1-1. Two free penalty 
kicks by John Oehler gave the 
ATO’s an impressive 3-1 margin, 
but once again Konuch broke into 
the scoring column and tied the 
game at 3-3. The score remained 
tied throughout the rest of the 
regular game. As overtime period 
followed overtime period the score 
remained tied until in the sixth 
Konuch smashed -the ball past 
Fredrickson of ATO for a 4-3 vic­
tory.
Sigma Nu wiW meet the winner 
of the DU-PiKA game in the 
semi-finals this week.
In other action, Sigma Nu “B”
AFTER 8 MONTHS.
YOU WILL SOON SEE
cfifyefbcfg
MARLBORO TV < 
CONSOLE CONTEST 
SWINGS INTO 
ITS LAST WEEK *
A brand new Zenith 21 inch TV console 
will be awarded to the group who has saved the 
most empty wrappers of Philip Morris, Marl­
boro, Parliament, and Alpine cigarettes by Fri­
day, April 8.
Would all groups participating in this year’s 
contest please bring their cigarette wrappers to 
the rear of E&S Hall by 3:30 Friday afternoon. 
Remember all wrappers must be packed in 
units of 50 and an exact count known. The win­
ner will be announced immediately after the 
count has been taken.
W.A.A. Completes 
B-Ball Season
To date W.A.A. has completed 
their club basketball season in 
which they played Pitt, Mt. Mercy, 
Chatham, St. Francis, and Indiana. 
Also the intramural volley ball 
season has just concluded with the 
Independents taking the victory 
trophy.
The activities on the slate for 
the second half of the semester are 
softball, swimming, and tennis. It 
is hoped that many will be inter­
ested in participating in these ac­
tivities.
SINGERS ONLY
Phil Moore, famed arranger-coach for Lena Home, Marilyn Monroe, Diahann Carroll, Sinatra, etc. now inakeMt possible to giv« your voice truly professional styling and broaden your “pop” repertoire at an amazing low cost.
FOi SINGERS ONLY are kits de­signed for yotir voice. You get: 6 special routine* of all-time hits; printed orchestrations and lyrics; an LP with Mr. Moore’* vocal demonstrations alternating with orchestra backgrounds for your rehearsals; a Career Singing Book.
4 Kits in either low or high key are available: Ballads, Torch y 'N Bluo, 
Cool Jazz 'N Rhythm, Sophisticated 
Songs.
Only $12.95 per Kit
(tftecify gSwa, raitfie when Sp­LpsfB0 
Write for complete information.
Phil Mooreua£ “4S0 x5 u
SENSATIONAL RECORD BARGAIN!
12" LP VINYL 
Specially Pressed by 
RCA Custom 
Records
”#"l SaAaY"aH 
F4S Ebdivk“ 
8l«a dLrYSalla 
£Ll«
o wBbucbuD 
pou2n Gbmwiv h 
o npkcbuD 
poun wonwi—
rampue
-the Hottest Jazz 
Record In Years
—and 2 VICEROY Cigarette packages!
Hurry! Hurry! Get this truly great jazz record at a 
low, low price, while the limited supply lasts! Record 
features your top favorite Jazz Instrumentalists—the 
winners in a national popularity survey of American 
College and University Students. Send for Campus Jazz 
Festival today. Use coupon below!
H3fff hhhhhhh
State -_______— —_
Page S—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, April 6. 196«
öfit^f&cks
IS SURE TO BE 
THE BEST YET!
DON’T BE LEFT * 
OUT. JOIN ...
opthei&cks
