Photos by Skip Brazelton
TARJAN
March 13, 1979Volume 79, Number 25Carnegie-Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213
Senate Elections Slated for this Week
Tomorrow and Thursday, Student Sen­
ate is holding elections for the Office of 
President and 15 Senate seats for the 
1979-80 term.
The race for President has Steven 
Bielich, a sophomore in Chemistry, and a 
member of ATO, against Scott Sibley, a 
junior in Civil Engineering, a member 
of Pilam and current Senate vice-chairman.
There will also be six seats decided in 
CIT, three in CFA and H&SS each, two in 
MIS, and one in AMS.
Statements from Senate candidates can 
be found on pages six and seven, and pres­
idential statements can be found below.
Steven N. Bielich
In my stay at CMU, I have noticed that 
the actions of' the Student Government 
have not represented the majority of the 
student population. The Student Govern­
ment should speak for all of the students. 
For this to be done, it takes listening. 
People talk too much about relatively 
insignificant matters with the intent of
Steve Bielich
making them sound urgent. Such an ap­
proach is nonsense. Someone has to listen 
to the ideas of the various groups of
SAE, Thetas, PLP Win Sine
''¦gma Alpha Epsilon won the fraternity competition with selections from the musical " 1776
people which comprise the campus 
community.
I’ve heard complaints about the 
spending of the student activities fee, 
and the lack of concern for campus 
athletics, to name just a few. These are 
problems: problems that should be solved 
according to the will of the student body, 
not by a handful of people who have 
worthwhile and representative ideas, and 
communicate their ideas to the proper 
channels to insure action. I will work with 
Senate as there must be unity within the 
government for it to function effectively.
By being exposed to, and involved with, 
local and nation-wide politics; I feel I can 
effectively relate to people. I have an 
open mind and can understand the diverse 
needs of people. I won’t make promises, 
because I don’t belive in feeding any­
body cheap political garbage. I will simply 
try to do the best I can to make CMU a 
better place.
Scott Sibley
The Senate is a collection of represen­
tatives of the student body. The President 
of the Student Government, on the other 
hand, speaks as a voice for.the entire stu­
dent body. I feel that the President, there­
fore, should be dealing with the higher, 
more general issues and leaving the legis­
lative problems to the Senate.
The allocation of the activities fees, 
the academic calendar and the tuition 
rate are important issues, but ones which, 
by their nature, belong in the Senate. The 
wide variety of students provide an equally 
wide variety of opinions on these subjects 
and a debate forum like Senate is the only 
appropriate place for that discussion.
On the other hand, everyone at this 
University is a human being. Everyone is 
also here for an education of some sort. 
These, then, should be the concerns of the 
Student Government President.
As human being, everyone has rights. 
Primarily, everyone deserves respect and
Scott Sibley
dignity. This respect should be evidenced 
in the University community by courtesy 
for the opinions of others and a tolerance 
of different cultural backgrounds. Dis­
crimination is blatant unconcern for anoth­
er’s beliefs which is fostered by a lack of 
cultural understanding.
Education is quite a nebulus concept. 
All activities in which a person engages 
changes him or her in some aspect. The 
purpose of education is to develop an 
organized whole — a complete person. 
The University, while professing a goal 
of “excellence in education” has deterior­
ated the position of the student to that 
of raw material to be processed in fouf or 
five years. Concern from the University 
and from fellow students is central to a 
positive educational experience.
I present no promises. I propose no 
sweeping reforms. I have laid out my pri­
orities and goals and these will direct my 
actions as a decisionmaker and as a stu­
dent.
continued on page 5
Jim Steele Defines Racism
Kappa Alpha Theta took the first place sorority trophy, rendering scenes from 'The Sound of Music"
Winning the mixed competition. Pi Lambda Phi amused the audience with Yet More CMU bongs
¦' - -- --- ------------- — •
by D.M. Rosenblum
Jim Steele, one of the key national or­
ganizers of the upcoming youth marches 
for jobs, spoke March 1 at a meeting of 
Spirit. Mr. Steele, the son of an Akron, 
Ohio rubber worker, has taught in the 
Black Studies Program of the University of 
Ohio at Athens and has run for U.S. Senate 
from that state. He is presently national 
chairman of the Young Workers Liberation 
League. In this capacity, he acted as one of 
the leaders of the United States delegation 
to the Eleventh World Festival of Youth 
and Students, held last summer in Havana. 
He has also been a leader in the develop­
ment of the Youth Salute Paul Robeson 
movement, which annually honors this 
famous black American.
Mr. Steele’s talk provided a solid analy­
sis of the situation that youth, particularly 
black youth, face in this country today. He 
spoke in concrete terms about the forces 
that oppress young working people, and 
paid particular attention to the forms that 
racist oppression takes today. The talk was 
¿organized around three closely interrelat­
ed themes. Because the question of black- 
white relations has had a particular impact 
on this campus, in the form of debates on 
TARTAN attitudes towards black students, 
he quite appropriately opened the discus­
sion by talking about the role of the media
in maintaining and fostering racism, often 
in subtle and insidious ways. This naturally 
led into a portrayal of the present right- 
wing movement against black people, in­
cluding most dangerously the growing 
threat of the elimination of strong affirma­
tive action programs. Skillfully weaving 
these two themes together, Mr. Steele went 
on to discuss the things that students here 
on this campus can do about the situation.
Mr. Steele’s discussion of the import­
ance of what is happening here focused on 
the question of the role of the media in 
creating an environment in which racism 
can flourish. The principal tactic of the 
media is the creation of the myth that 
black people have “made it” today, and 
that they no longer face any racist oppres­
sion. (Typically, newspaper and television 
writers will speak of the fact that black 
people have won all of the legal protec­
tions, and then say that all that remains is 
their problem, and that they must simply 
work hard to make good on all of those 
laws. They supposedly no longer encounter 
any present discrimination, but must mere­
ly slowly remedy the damage of the past.) 
Applied to Carnegie-Mellon, this suggests 
that the TARTAN’s concentration on sup­
posed deficiencies in the publicity for 
Black Awareness Week fosters racism (al-
continued on page 26

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Ones That Got Away
The TARTAN has no opinions about anything this week. 
We’ve come to no startling conclusions. We haven't uncover­
ed any horrid teaching or administrative practices. We have 
no group or student leader deserving of a full column of 
praise. Are you still reading this? You shouldn’t be. We’ve 
already said it: We have nothing to say. We have no state­
ments condemning or supporting anything. And we have no 
facts to back anything up.
Editorials which were seriously considered to fill this 
space, but were canned for various reasons, are as follows 
(these are not in alphabetical order):
1) The TARTAN supports Scott Sibley for Student Govern­
ment president because we feel he will do the best job.
2) The TARTAN supports Steve Bielich for Student Gover­
nment president because we feel he wilf do the best job.
3) Why isn’t Science Hall named Stever Hall? (Stever is 
CMU’s only ex-president without a building named after 
him.)
4) Why doesn’t anyone complain about Gerald Dalton and 
his Housing Office this year? Whatsthematter, is he doing a 
good job, or something?
5) Who reads FOLIO?
6) The evils of sinning on the night before exams and eating 
cookies and cake right before dinner time.
7) Tuition increases: Don‘t blame Desenex.
8) Why can’t Baker ¡Porter be closer to Forbes Avenue? On 
cold winter mornings, it is a hassle walking there from any­
where: The frats, Morewood, off-campus dwellings, Brazil.
9) So what if Richie Havens was at Woodstock?
10) Keep freerolls in the bedroom.
11) How to escape from Hunt Library without checking out 
your books: Hold them over your head, and the buzzer 
won’t catch you.
12) WRCT—playing music that no one listens to.
13) How did Sigma Nu mistake Greek Sing for "The Battle 
of the Bands? "
14) Shouldn’t the Senate Finance Committee just let Dean 
Cox give out all the activities fee allocations?
15) Is SEV an overachiever?
16) So what if the GSIA insulation is flammable? Students 
don’t care enough to get worried about it. Pittsburgh has a 
fire department, doesn’t it?
1 7) The real meaning of "unlimited seconds” (at Morewood 
Cafeteria) and what it stands for in our society.
18) Should college be three years long instead of four years, 
or should enrollment take place a week after Labor Day?
19) CMU alumni in the nation’s penitentiaries: What has 
society done to them?
20) Taking tests under the influence-is it really easier to 
cheat?
21) What did President Cyert mean in his statement in the 
1978 THISTLE: “It was a pleasure for me to have you at 
Carnegie-Mellon...
22) It is really a sHdme that there are now men living in 
Morewood Gardens. Nowadays, when a young male student 
walks by the dorm in the middle of the night and yells,
“Hey Morewood, I’m here waiting for you,” he feels like 
he is bisexual.
23) Keys to Mudge... it seems like everyone and his mother 
has a key. Want some insights regarding how tc get your
mother a key?
24) Why should Senate be allowed to allocate money to 
themselves just so they can buy a dartboard to decide alloc­
ations for everyone else?
25) Why should student activities fee money be used to sup­
port worthless incoherent editorials that just take up space?
26) Is it biologically possible for ABC’s All-American Girl to 
come from CMU?
27) The hows and whys of overeating, or....When should 
students be allowed to overload ?
28) The TARTAN—Why do students continue to read it, 
even though it is filled with typoes and poor writing?
29) How does the TARTAN continuously turn out a 
journalistically superior masterpiece each week?
30) Office Hours—-how they are effected by daylight sav­
ings time, and why they shouldn’t be respected.
31) Why don’t more students visit the Pittsburgh Zoo ?
Next week, look for a serious statement in this space: 
"The State of the University. ” It will be the final message ot 
the 1978-79 editorial board. Elections, by the way, are this 
evening at 5:00 PM in Ski bo Room 13. Many positions are 
open to students without experience.
•. , Jeffrey Zaslow
Editor-in-chief
Why don’t more students visit the Pittsburgh Zoo ?
Letters
Take that... and that.... and.. 
Editor:
Mr. Zaslow, you ignorant slut. 
First let me begin with some 
facts: you are the excrement of 
the shredded fetus of a syphylitic 
aardvark with epilepsy whose de­
composed body lies in the jaws of 
a rusty beartrap in the sewer. 
Your racist preferences certainly 
came out in your treatment of 
Black Awareness Week.
Do you think it’s fair to print 
all the letters of your opponents, 
even though most of them make 
their writers look like irrational 
fools? The least you could do is 
leave out those letters by incom­
petent writers, and print only 
those one or two that are compe­
tently written. As for lack of pub­
licity, 1 see no reason why a white 
student would feel alienated by a 
poster entitled “Black Awareness 
Week” which appears to show an 
enthusiastic, darkly-shaded mob 
with a fist upraised in a jovial 
black power sign.
I have been involved with the
Beaux Arts Ball, whose theme was 
Afro-American and Caucasian, or 
simply black and white. Although 
the organizers did not delegate a 
Beaux Arts Anti-Discrimination 
Committee, I assure you that the 
banners as a whole were equally 
black and white, and that as many 
black balloons were used as white 
balloons (I counted to make sure). 
Contented that I had been fair to 
all, I stood at the entrance in my 
half-black, half-white mask. Then 
who did I see but Jeff Zaslow, 
dressed completely in white, a 
racist outcry if I’ve ever seen one. 
I felt it my duty to bring this to 
the attention of the readers, as my 
small part in furthering the cause 
of Black Awareness.
I’m sure, Mr. Zaslow, that you 
are asking why your opponents 
don’t write letters that simply 
praise the informative and enter­
taining events of Black Awareness 
Week, without including the fact 
that they resent your criticism of 
the events. Well, from what I’ve
heard and what I see in the “Let­
ters to the Editor,” it should be 
obvious to all that the actual pur­
pose of Black Awareness Week 
was to hold black-oriented events, 
and then wait for somebody to 
criticize something. When you, 
Mr. Zaslow, were the first to do so 
and reveal yourself as an imperial­
ist, fascist, revisionist, racist pig- 
dog-swine, we had no choice but 
to try to crush you, in an effort to 
further the cause of Black Aware­
ness.
If I know you, Mr. Zaslow, the 
next thing you’ll do is stop print­
ing letters about this subject. If 
you were at all fair, you would 
forget all the other news and de­
vote your entire publication to the 
printing of derogatory letters, un­
til we can snowball this into an 
authentic race- riot (I’m sure you 
never even considered printing the 
TARTAN in white letters on a 
black background).
Mr. Zaslow, do you even know 
what month is honored to contain
TARTAN
Volume 79March 13,1979Number 25
Editor-in-ChiefJeff Zaslow
Managing EditorsJean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business ManagerStephanie Waite
News EditorBrian Byrnes ,
Features EditorMory Brenner
FOLIO EditorK. A. Yaksich
Entertainment EditorJoan Livitski
Sports EditorsHoward Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography EditorSkip Brazelton
Production ManagerNeil Adler
Art DirectorDianne Lauble
Assistant News and Features LditorLeslie Weiser
Assistant News Editor: Andrew Hagan
Assistant Features Editor: Susan Borg
Production Assistant: Doug K r sop
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie Mellon University TARTAN The Fditoiial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication I unded in part by the Student Govern 
ment of Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices Skibo 52. (412) 578 -2111
ALL RIGHTS RESER\'rD

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
Eskimo Awareness Week? I didn’t 
think so. To conclude, my last ra­
tional, logical comment is that you 
should be hung, shot, stabbed, 
poisoned, castrated, thrown from 
a cliff, guillotined, drowned, axed, 
fed to sharks, flogged, run down 
by a train, buried alive, boiled in 
oil, harpooned, shishkabobed and 
roasted, stuffed and publicly dis­
played ...
Steven Connelly 
Preaching Tolerance 
Editor:
I fail to understand why people 
for the most part, label people 
with terms such as racist, or bigot 
because they do not share the 
same view on a specific matter.
I feel (not know or think) that it 
is possible for a person to disagree 
without being type-cast into such 
easily defined and stereotyped 
roles. People are generally more 
complicated than that.
It has been my experience, that 
people coming from different 
backgrounds usually have ideas 
and concepts different than my 
own. Now this seems very reason­
able, however, why is it that they, 
and at times myself, fail to see 
where the other is coming from? 
It seems only natural for people 
to think their way, and that 
someone thinking differently 
would have to be wrong, or at 
least labeled wrong.
I am no great philosopher, and 
as you can tell, not much of a 
writer. But, I feel, if people would 
just sit back and look at the other 
persons background, and realize 
the differences, and then base 
their communications from this 
point, some problems could be 
solved or alleviated.
Naive 
Hackers Take Note
Editor:
Upon reading the slightly 
humorous letter of March 6 from 
several “hackers” some disturbing 
questions arise. In the letter we 
are informed that these individu­
als at times intentionally crash the 
computer system they are work­
ing on, presumably one available 
to those who need it in the uni­
versity community. The implica­
tion, probably true, is that some 
skill is necessary to bring about 
such a crash.
Are such actions justified? Per­
haps these individuals do not 
bother themselves with ethics. 
However, the rest of the universi­
ty community clearly suffers as a 
result of their interference. Both 
money and time (not independ­
ently) are wasted. Serious course 
and research work may be inter­
rupted. It can be argued that if 
these persons possess the under­
standing and have made the neces­
sary efforts to affect the system 
then they deserve to be able to. Is 
this justification?—I don’t think 
so, nor do I expect many others 
to. But this is not a trivial prob­
lem.
Several million dollars were 
successfully stolen (as in crime) 
by a computer whiz in California 
recently (he was caught later). His 
efforts were clever and from that 
standpoint admirable but he is not 
to be condoned. How far in prin­
ciple or fact are the hackers from 
this person? Their superiority atti­
tude saddens me simply because 
it reflects the narrowminded “us
and them” mentality afflicting 
many here at CMU (and pre­
sumably, unfortunately, else­
where). But more harmful poten­
tially are the results of the actions 
conducted in the spirit of this 
attitude.
Finally, to the other occupants 
of the special housing units on the 
Hill this Fall, I offer some advice: 
being that you are mere mortals, 
your olfactory senses may become 
offended if some of the hackers 
fail to wash their hair by, say, the 
end of September. I suggest then 
that you leave a bottle of sham­
poo at your neighbors’ doorstep— 
but, lest your efforts be in vain, 
include an algorithm detailing its 
proper use. The instructions 
commonly included happen to on­
ly be written in English.
John G. Suhayda
Hackers Indeed!
Editor:
Recently in this journal there 
appeared an obvious bit of Com­
munism in the form of a letter to 
the Editor entitled Hacker’s re- 
BUTTal. We are outraged, upset, 
and Caucasian (one of us slight­
ly Oriental).
To illuminate our viewpoint on 
this distasteful subject, we wish to 
take exception with several quotes 
from the letter of March 6th.
1. “... when the computer goes 
down, we are the ones who cause 
it.” We find it hard to believe any­
one at this institution could be so 
irresponsible and inconsiderate. 
You should consider this, 
NERDS: most students using the 
computers use them for school- 
work, not for personal sexual en­
joyment. When the computer 
crashes, the work and time they 
lose is your fault. Is this your ob­
jective? We think the Computa­
tion Center should hold you re­
sponsible for the destruction you 
cause.
2. “We will no longer mix 
with mere mortals.” Thank God.
3. “We wash our hair at least 
once a semester.” Liars.
In addition to the complaints 
generated through your letter, 
hete are several unrelated com­
ments of equal importance:
— Attention Computer Science 
Department: Are you aware that 
most of the signers of the letter in 
the TARTAN are in 15-311, and 
most of them are using the Com­
puter Science systems on the third 
floor to produce their projects? 
Not only is this unfair for those of 
us in this class who don’t work for 
the Computer Science Depart­
ment, but we believe it is illegal. 
Those computers are funded by 
the Defense Department and are 
not to be used for instructional 
purposes.
— Your general attitude: We 
don’t care if you think you are 
gods, but please don’t tell us a- 
bout it. Unless we are mistaken, 
you are not yet in charge of the 
Computation Center. From 
whence dost thou derive thy right 
to declaim thy supposed wisdom? 
More specifically,
1. Don’t take a terminal if you 
don’t need one, nor should you 
take more than one at a time.
2. Don’t artificially raise the 
load average, nor run worthless
programs that require much com­
puter time when the system is in 
heavy use.
We know that this is just com­
mon sense; that is why we have 
taken the time to write it down 
for you.
—Geek-Computer house: More 
power to you on this point!
100,000 volts right between the 
disks!!!! We notice you refer to it 
as a “special housing unit” — 
quite apt. We hope that you will 
be spending all of your time with­
in its locked doors. One thing, 
though — don’t those houses hold 
8 people? You signed 11 names to 
your letter, and that leaves 7 va­
cant spots.
—Hackers instead of Nerds: 
You’re nerds, you nerds!!! You 
spend hours on the system, wast­
ing your time in meaningless 
activity. So do nerds. You are 
nerds, you nerds.
We anxiously await your re­
plies and/or your obituaries in the 
next TARTAN.
Respectfully, 
Scott Dyer 
Sherman Page 
Stumpy 
Eric Joft
CMU's Prize Attractions 
Editor:
I would like to congratulate 
the housing committee on the fine 
work it is doing. Not only are 
they building the new housing un­
its along Margaret Morrison 
Street, but they are constructing a
campus zoological park in order to 
better the campus community. 
The prize exhibit of the planned 
complex is to be placed in one of 
the “special interest housing un­
its.” I am speaking of course of 
the main attraction of the propos­
ed *Slugs & Rodents’ section, the
8 prize specimens of Comp-Sci 
Nerd (Hackers, TARTAN letters, 
March 6). These rare (we hope), 
elusive beasts inhabit the humid 
regions of Science Hall, eating flys 
and insects (and an occasional 
freshman) and are one of the great 
puzzles of modem science (for, 
like the brontosaurus, they have 
their brains in their tails). I think 
that we should indeed be proud to 
have such a collection.
However, I would like to cau­
tion the general populace that 
these creatures do pose an obvious 
threat to the serenity of campus 
life. After all, do you want to live 
next to someone who has inter­
course with fruit? Besides which, 
they are the only members of the 
animal kingdom that are known 
communist conspirators, and they 
are believed to engage in various 
pagan rituals in which they sacri­
fice live goats to spools of magne­
tic tape. DISKgusting! In conclu­
sion, I for one think that this ex­
hibit should be banned and die 
specimens taken out and maimed.
Steven E. Gray
Setting The Record Straight
Editor:
In a recent article (3/6) con­
cerning an interview with Graham 
Chapman, certain information was 
not included which we feel was 
vital to the entire incident.
To begin with, Mr. Chapman 
did not just “walk in and (sit)
down on the couch.” In fact, he 
was accompanied by two other 
students who had earlier gone to 
Channel 13 to take pledges in the 
hope of seeing him. The process 
of taking pledges is tedious, noisy 
and, under the bright lights, very 
hot, but it is well worth it.
We finally managed to talk to 
him, we asked him if he’d like to 
come and see the campus with us. 
He accepted immediately, and 
said he thought perhaps we could 
go to a party that one of the 
callers to the studio had invited 
him to, and that we could go from 
there.
One of the staff at WQED 
drove us to the party, and, to our 
surprise, we discover it is on 
campus. However, upon entering 
the room, the door was closed and 
locked and the interrogation 
began. It appeared to us (to our 
dismay) that Mr. Chapman was 
bored, however , he did loosen up 
a bit later on.
By the end of the questioning, 
Mr. Chapman was rather tired 
considering he had to be up in a 
few hours to catch a plane to 
England, this was understandable. 
A neighbor was pleaded to give 
him a ride back, and so the 
members of the party crammed 
into the car, with him stuffed in 
the back, and went to the Hyatt 
House. Feeling that there were 
enough people in the car, we 
decided to part there.
This puts a truer light on the 
situation, although there are still 
some discrepancies in the article 
as to the substance of what was 
said. But these matters would be 
better clarified with Mr. Chapman 
All in all, we would be surprised 
(but still very pleased) if he ever 
did come back for any pro­
motional tours.
George M. Carter 
Scott M. Simms
Beaux Arts
Editor;
Now that I’ve sufficiently revived 
myself from the exotic black and 
white world of the Beaux Arts 
Ball, I would like to acknowledge 
the tremendous effort that the 
organizing committee put forth 
to make the Ball possible. From 
the initial planning through the 
eventual clean-up they demonstra­
ted and incredible amount of de­
termination and high degree of 
professionalism. I think that 
everyone who attended would 
agree that the BAB fully reflected 
the excellent quality of the 
committee’s labors. It was truly a 
pleasure to work with them on 
this project.
Greg Ross
Assistant Dean, College of Fine
Arts.
Kennedy Ain't Bad 
Editor:
Fred Siegel’s most recent 
“Washington and Beyond” 
column contains its usual quota of 
conservative myths, this time 
about Senator Kennedy. Some 
corrections are in order.
1) Teddy Kennedy does not 
have a “flagrant history of scandal. 
He was involved in exactly 2 ques­
tionable incidents: the car acci­
dent in which his secretary was 
killed, and the fact that he once 
cheated on an exam. This, in my
opinion, is not sufficient proof of 
either corruption or irresponsibil­
ity.
2) The statement “a Kennedy 
endorsement on a particular bill is 
as good as that bill being passed ” 
is completely wrong. If that were 
true, then the Consumer Protec­
tion Agency, the Common-Site 
Picketing Bill, and various health, 
gun control and education 
measures favored by Kennedy 
would have passed, instead of 
being defeated by the Senate Con­
servative Coalition.
Barton Levenson 
Candidate for 
Student Senate
Save The Buggy 
Editor:
As spring comes to Tech Land 
and buggies start to roll, I cannot 
help but cruise down Schenley 
Drive (Hill 2) in sheer horror. 
Lurking everywhere are craters, 
ravines and pits that could demo­
lish a car going 35 miles per hour. 
In my mind I see a buggie doing 
55 disintegrating before ever 
reaching the “slot.”
Once again it's time to play 
“Let’s Lobby for Road Repairs.” 
Once, not so long ago, a general 
outcry to the Mayors Compliant 
Department got Frew St. repaved 
in time for the sweepstakes. Now 
it’s time to try to get Schenley 
Drive repaved. The number to call
is 255-2621. Gook Luck............
Herb Farfel 
BS 73
Headless Bodies 
Editor:
Dear CIT people. Congratula­
tions on losing your department 
head! It’s great fun! We’ve been 
headless for 32 months now, the 
longstanding experts on the sub­
ject. We’ve found being a “head­
less body” challenging, rewarding 
and a great conversation piece at 
parties! Good luck to your Dean 
Search Committee — what’s that 
you ask? — oh, sure — we’ve had 
several through the years — but 
no more than one at a time! Why,
we even had a number of prospec­
tive candidates, but by the time 
our omnipotent administrative 
leaders had taken action, the 
candidates had gotten bored with 
the idea. In fact, these days, no 
one hears about the search for our 
long lost head. Maybe “the com­
mittee” just plain forgot about us! 
1 even heard that Guiness is inter­
ested in creating a new entry for 
us — something like “Longest 
Functioning Body to Live With­
out Head”.
I know, you’ll do much better 
than that! Shucks, you guy’s will 
probably be “intact” in no time at 
all — maybe even by your June 
deadline! Oh well, in the mean 
time, dont lose your — sorry, 
that’s a lousy joke at a time like 
this!
A Friendly Architecture Student
'he TAH TXNw elco m es Tetter s- 
to-the-editor from the entire 
campus community. The letters 
should be signed and cannot be 
printed otherwise. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Mail let­
ters to Box 17, campus mail, or 
drop them off at the offices of 
the TARTAN in Skibo.
wjgrjtrjrjrjrjrjrAr.

---------------------------------------------------

ELECTION
FOR
STUDENT SENATE
AND
STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESIDENT
WHEN: 
TOMORROW, MARCH 14f 8 A.M. to 12 P.M. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 15f 8 A.M. TO 8 P.M.
WHO:
PRESIDENT
SCOTT SIBLEY STEVEN BIELICH
CIT (6)
ROBERT SHIMP 
MICHAEL GREENBERG 
PAUL WILLIAMS 
CONSTANCE SMITH 
PAUL SCHNEIDER 
STEPHEN HRINYA 
MARY ANN LAWTON 
WILLIAM McKNIGHT 
NINA HOUSKA 
DAWN CLAWSON 
KATHY RELIHAN 
JOANN LAWTON 
KENNETH LIMMER 
EDNA KUNKEL
H&SS (3)
RALPH SHERMAN 
DAN NICHOLS 
BROOKE SKULSKI
CFA (3)
CHERIE HODGE
MIS (2)
STEPHEN MORRISON 
ROBERT ZIMMERMANN 
TOD PIKE 
BILL KOSHUT 
JAMES MILLER 
JOHN BRANDT 
MICHAEL ACCETTA 
BARTON LEVENSON
AMS (1)
GUSTY SUNSERI 
BERNIE IVANSCHULTZ 
CRAIG ZIMMERMAN 
ANDREW LERNER
VOTE FOR YOUR FAVORITE CANDIDATE
WHERE: in the lobby of
MOREWOOD
IF YOU LIVE IN 
MOREWOOD OR 
MUDGE
DONNER
IF YOU LIVE 
ON THE HILL
SKIBO
IF YOU LIVE 
ANYWHERE ELSE
ALL ACTIVITIES-FEE PAYING STUDENTS CAN VOTE
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

The SDC Space
by Mindie Jo Snyder
i Sunday evening, March 4, the Student 
Dorm Council met for the first time under 
the new executive board. The first topic of 
discussion, presented under Administrative 
Reports, was the possibility of SDC and 
Residence Life sponsoring a picnic in the 
spring.
Committee Reports were as follows: 
Food Service reported that orange juice 
can only be served for breakfast, since it is 
too expensive to dispense at an additional 
meal. Steak dinners seem to be going well 
and not many people are fighting the ad­
ditional $1.25 charge above the meal con­
tract. Also, John Eichmuller, director of 
Food Service, will be attending the SIX! 
meeting March 18 to answer questions a- 
bout the new meal contract plan to go into 
effect next semester. All students are wel­
come to attend. Housing Committee re­
ported discussion of co-ed housing and 
summer housing rates. Shirley Apartments 
will now become one-bedroom, two oc­
cupant accommodations, instead of three- 
occupants as in the past. Three applications 
for special interest housing were reviewed 
and two have been approved: Computer 
House and Hillel. More applications for 
special interest housing will be accepted, 
but only for a short while. Renovations 
brought to council’s attention that an IBM 
typing ball purchased for the Hill area was 
lost through Central Receiving. The appro­
priate sources are being questioned about 
this.
Theie was a Study Break with the SDC ex­
ecutive board at Morewood Rec. Room 
Wednesday evening, March 7 at 7:30. All 
residents of Morewood and Mudge were 
encouraged to attend. Refreshments were 
served. A similar event will be held on the 
Hill within the next two weeks.
President Jim Balsom reported that office 
hours have been slated Monday through 
Friday. Anyone interested in obtaining 
further information about SDC or wishing 
an immediate answer to a dorm related 
problem, should stop by Skibo 55 or 
phone x2114 during the posted hours.
Treasurer Bill Reiner proposed that 
Council, along with Residence Life, esta­
blish an ad-hoc committee for alcohol 
awareness. This committee would educate 
people on alcohol problems and assess the 
campus’ needs in this area, seeing if there 
in fact is an alcohol problem. The first 
activity for the committee would be to 
issue a questionnaire/survey. This motion 
was passed.
Council voted to accept Todd Green­
wood, Melanie Fetrow and Ansel Moore as 
reps-at-large for the Hill. Ansel Moore was 
also approved by SDC to be the Parlimen- 
tarian.
Council voted to approve the installation 
of a photo copy machine on the Hill. Once 
installed, the machine will remain there. 
Lastly, Council approved that an amount 
not to exceed $25.00 be used to purchase 
a volleyball for intramural activities.
Elections Tomorrow
continued from page 1
I am a junior in civil engineering. I 
have been a Senator for five months and 
am currently vice-chairperson of Senate. 
I am a member of the TARTAN news 
staff and the Tau Beta Pi Engineering
Honorary. I am a member of Pi Lambda 
Phi where I have served as secretary. I 
have been involved as an admissions tour 
guide and a Freshman Weekend counselor 
and I am active in the Shadyside College 
Fellowship.
TARTAN ELECTIONS
TODAY AT 5 P.M. 
IN SKIBO ROOM 13Jr
POSITIONS OPEN:
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
NEWS EDITOR 
FEATURES EDITOR 
ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
SPORTS EDITOR 
FOLIO EDITOR
Candidates for Editor-in-chief must be full-time CMU 
students who have worked on the TARTAN for at least 
one semester. Candidates for section editors must be 
full-time students, and need no prior experience. All 
TARTAN staffers who are in the masthead, or have writ­
ten for two out of the last four issues before elections, 
may vote.
To celebrate the successful conclusion of the term of the 1978-79 
TARTAN Editorial Board, the staff of the TARTAN is offering
FREE CLASSIFIEDS
in the March 20th issue, (before Spring break) 
Say anything you'd like, any way you'd like
( 15 word maximum)
Mail Campus Mail to THE TARTAN, Box 17

---------------------------------------------------

' / - À* 
Student Senate Candidates Give
CIT—6 Seats potential to become a stronger voice for
the students and to make needed changes.
I would like to continue working to eli­
minate student concerns and to help 
Senate gain the confidence and support of 
the whole student body.
ticularly where the fraternities are in­
volved . The school itself, knowingly takes 
over $6000 a year from fraternity pledges 
when they charge their food contracts. 
I would like to see some changes.
Constance M. Smith
It is my opinion that the CMU campus 
is suffering from a dangerous breakdown in 
communications. Lack of understanding 
between ethnic groups, and between the 
student body and the administration are all 
symptomatic of this breakdown. This type 
of a communications problem can only 
lead to conflict and further misunderstand­
ings for all concerned. Thus, this situation 
must be remedied as quickly as possible. 
Moreover, the remedy must provide not 
only open but also effective communica­
tions which will help this university to op­
erate as a unified and efficient whole.
I feel that as a member of the CMU Stu­
dent Senate I will be able insome measure 
to alleviate this block in communications. I 
will try to the best of my ability to keep 
the students within my constituency aware 
of the issues coming before Student Sen­
ate. I will do my utmost to consider all 
sides of those issues. Finally, in making my 
decisions, I will make a concentrated effort 
to represent the best interests of my con­
stituency.
Nina Houska
I am a freshman who has already served 
CIT on Senate for one semester. As a 
senator, I participated actively on my 
committee (General Campus and Informa­
tion) and was elected its vice-chair.
Though some may consider having 
a freshman represent them as a disadvan­
tage, I feel that the opposite was true in 
my case. It enabled me to clearly see and 
be shocked by the tremendous apathy 
and lack of social activities on this cam­
pus. I originally ran because I saw these 
problems and others as something that 
Senate could potentially do something 
about.
I am running for re-election because I 
still feel the same way. Senate has the
Kathy Relihan
Having been a senator and working as 
the secretary for Student Senate, I realize 
that the purpose of the organization is to 
fulfill the needs of the students on this 
campus. In order to do this, a senator must 
have a lot of contact with the students 
to know where their interests lie. As a 
senator from CIT I have tried to get opin­
ions from students as to how they feel on 
matters in Senate and I vote accordingly. 
I am involved in several campus organiza­
tions including Kappa Kappa Gamma and 
the Thistle. These, along with classes, 
dorm living and social functions gives me 
a lot of contact with people. The Senate 
has a lot of pull with the administration of 
the University and, if it is put to use in 
the correct manner, can ease many of the 
student’s problems. And if really con­
cerned people are elected to Senate, 
problems could be cleared up quickly. 
I am concerned with people’s problems 
and feel I could represent the people at 
my constituency very well.
Stephen Hrinya
If you were to ask just about anyone on 
this campus about what they think of Sen­
ate, and how it runs, undoubtedly you will 
hear at best that Senate is run awkwardly, 
and does little in anyone’s interest. Anyone 
who went to class on registration day this 
year will realize that CMU really tries its 
best to destroy any semblance of student 
rights on this campus. I feel that the only 
way to help in such situations is to become 
involved, and that is why I am running for 
Senate. I also feel that the previous Senate 
has not been equitable with its funds, par-
at Camegie-Mellon 
I have heard many complaints, criticism, 
and suggestions of improvemet concerning 
university policies. Unless proper action is 
taken, however, opinions voiced to fellow 
students are of little value. We of this cam­
pus community are fortunate to have an 
organization such as Student Senate 
through which our views can be noted and 
duly acted upon. Yet few students are 
aware of the potential powers of Senate, 
and even fewer take advantage of them.
As as a senator, my main purpose will 
be to represent the student’s outlook. This 
includes not only the general opinion voic­
ed by many, but also individual concerns. 
It is important that each person be afford­
ed the opportunity to make known his 
feelings. I hope that-through me, members 
of this campus will be better able to com­
municate their views to the senate, and in 
turn to directly affect the course of cam­
pus affairs.
William J. Me Knight
As a junior mechanical engineer run­
ning for a Senate seat, I’m deeply con­
cerned about student involvement in the 
University. It seems that there is a lack of 
communication between University of­
ficials and students centering on mutual 
problems. By interacting with the officials 
through the Senate and knowing many of 
the students, 1 believe that better lines 
of communication can be developed. 
Also, I would like to see more student 
involvement in campus activities. In other 
words I hope to use student funds to make 
this college fun to attend. There is no sense 
in college being frustrating and miserable.
Edna Kunkel
I am running for Student Senate be­
cause I have experience, I am concerned, 
and I want to help make CMU our univer­
sity. I served for five years on a student 
governing body, dealing with problems, 
working on and heading various commit­
tees. I want to know what is happening to 
all of us. I want to harness my energy so 
that it can be used effectively for our 
student body. I can best harness this en­
ergy by representing you on our Student 
Senate.
Dawn Clawson
I have been involved in Student Senate 
since last October as Finance Secretary. 
Because of this, I see a real need for 
senators who represent their constituency 
and the campus interests as a whole, rather 
than their own personal interests. As an 
active member of Kappa Kappa Gamma 
and CIA I am in contact with the opinions 
and needs of a diverse group of students. 
My work in Student Senate has famil­
iarized me with procedures and practices; 
valuable experience if I am elected. I feel 
I can represent well a CIT constituency 
as well as the entire campus.
Robert Shimp
Michael Greenberg
Paul Williams
Paul Schneider
Kenneth Limmer
(No picture or statement given.)
mmsmsmsmmmm
Due to an unforeseen mishap, the TAR­
TAN was left without its usual typeface 
during the last stages of the layout. There 
are two articles in Sports and one in Feat­
ures which had to be done in a different 
typeface. This new typeface will occasion­
ally show up in the other pages, where cor­
rections were laid down. The TARTAN ex­
tends its apologies to its readers.

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 7
land or Shadyside bar.
Being a self-paced Calculus tutor, I 
am well aware of the problems we face. 
I am proud to be here, and I’ll try my 
damn best to keep it that way.
come a real mess. Senate, as a whole, 
should move away from the special con­
cerns of individual senators and special in­
terest groups, and concentrate more on 
what the average student wants. Funds 
must be budgeted in a way to do the 
most good for the largest number of stu­
dents. Senate also seems to have become 
content to sit and discuss minor matters 
while important problems remain un­
solved. I would like to have a chance to 
change Student Senate for the better.
Stephen Morrison
(No statement given.)
James R. Miller
After watching decisions being made 
that involved my money and my education 
—without my control—I decided to try 
to put myst If in the position that some of 
my ideas, complaints, and opinions might 
be able to do some good. So that they 
might be heard by someone with the power 
to act upon them, for a change. If someone 
does not like what he sees happening a- 
round him he should do something more 
than just watch it happen. I want to 
take an active part in the issues affecting 
me as well as everyone else on this campus.
Tod Pike
My name is Tod Pike and I’m running 
for MIS Senator. Each year, Student 
Senate allocates over $100,000 in student 
funds. It is my belief that most senators 
do not fully understand or appreciate the 
importance of properly allocating these 
funds.
In the three years I have been here, 
I feel that I have learned enough about the 
student body and activities to do a good 
job on senate. I have been an officer of 
several campus organizations, and have 
been interested in Senate for several sem­
esters. I feel that the time is right for 
making senate more responsive to student 
needs, especially in allocating student 
funds.
H&SS-3 Seats
Platforms on "Why I am Running!"
My name is Mary Ann Lawton and I’m 
an incumbent CIT Senator running for re- 
election. This past term I served as Finance 
Committee Chairman, and I believe I’ve 
done a good job of representing my consti­
tuents throughout the school. I think I 
know what the people in this school don’t 
like and I do my best to change those 
things. I would like to continue serving the 
people of this school by being elected to a 
second term in office.
Mick Accetta
After having observed most of this sem­
ester’s Student Senate meetings, I think 
that there is much that can be done to­
wards enabling Student Senate to more 
effectively represent student opinion and 
towards providing a more equitable and 
fair allocation of the Student Activities 
Fee. I’d like the chance as a member of 
Senate to help make this happen.
Robert Zimmermann
(No statement given.)
Barton Paul Levenson
I’m running for Student Senate because I 
feel that we need more attention to issues 
in the Senate. Despite the stereotype of the 
apathetic student, there are plenty of peo­
ple on campus who care about the issues, 
and they deserve adequate representation. I 
believe I can provide that representation.
There are three major actions I intend to 
take immediately on gaining my Senate 
seat. First of all, I will introduce legislation 
exempting graduate students from the ac­
tivities fee program if they so desire. Many 
of my constituents have expressed a desire 
for such a system.
Secondly, I will introduce a resolution on 
behalf of the Student Senate, recommend­
ing that CMU sell the stock it owns in Cor­
porations with extensive holdings in the 
Republic of South Africa.
Lastly, I will introduce a similar resolu­
tion condemning recent proposals to rein­
state involuntary military conscription. If 
you support these ideas, vote for me this 
March!
Throughout my years at CMU, I have 
perceived two elementary problems in 
MIS; apathy and the lack of organiza­
tion. Student-to-student communication 
must be improved, and we have excellent 
grounds for tliis that have not been bro­
ken, those being lectures and depart­
mental conferences. I propose tiiat per­
haps a 5-minute critique of senate pro­
ceedings before (or after) scheduled con­
ferences and lectures could develop a more 
personal student-senator association.
We are, as a group, getting generally, 
totally, and royally screwed. Allocations 
from student-senate for weekend “happen­
ings” are a disgrace. Hell, give more money 
to SDC for better movies, allocate more 
for campus events; don’t let this campus 
become a weekend excursion to an Oak-
John Brandt
I believe that Student Senate has be-
Brooke J. Skulski
I’m running for Student Senate because 
I’d like to instill a stronger sense of unity 
and belonging that we as students have the 
potential to realize here at Carnegie-Mellon 
University. Students don’t feel as if they or 
the Student Government have an effective 
role in the way in which the university is 
run, when in fact, they do. Most recently, 
for example, the issue of the school calen­
der was decided with the help of students 
from all colleges and the Student Govern­
ment.

---------------------------------------------------

Senate Candidates Detail Election Platforms
seen a serious communication problem 
between the administration and the stu­
dents. I feel , that with an enthusiastic and 
dedicated body of Senators, the degree of 
communication and cooperation could be 
effectively maximized for the benefit of 
all the students at Carnegie-Mellon Univer-
sity.
Dan Nichols
(No picture given.)
I would like to ask for your vote, for 
Student Senator in H&SS, in the upcoming 
election. Well be sending three Senators to 
represent us in the Student Government,
and Td like to be one of them. After work­
ing on SDC, I am sure I could do a good 
job representing our needs. Thanks for 
your time.
mechtmiEal & Electrical Engineering Crnduntes
Black & Decker, the leader in the grow­
ing power tool industry, has outstanding 
entry level opportunities offering uncom­
mon career potential for engineering 
graduates in the above disciplines.
Please visit our Representative 
on March 16
If not available on this date, please forward your resume to John Shobert, Personnel DepartmentBlack s Decker
701 East Joppa Road 
Towson, Maryland 21204
An equal opportunity employer M/F
Ralph M. Sherman
I hope you’ll take a few moments and 
think about the upcoming Student Senate 
elections for H&SS. Several weeks ago, I 
Was nominated and elected to fill a vacancy 
in the H&SS Senate delgation; since then, I 
have been working on the Rules Commit­
tee. It has been too short a time to achieve 
anything major, but I want to ask for your 
vote to send me back to the Senate.
The most importand matter Senate may 
deal with, a proposed $500-$ 1000 tuitionExpanding the Limits of LSI.
Here's a few words about what we're doing today in LSI...
We re using the most advanced technology 
available to develop custom proprietary cir­
cuits. We have a speciality expertise in the 
design area that allows us to design these 
circuits better than they’ve ever been done 
before. And we have the process technology 
in place to successfully manufacture some 
of the most complex chips in the industry.
But we can also say a great deal about our 
strength as a company. A compounded 
growth rate of 36% for the last 10 years— 
and there are no layoffs in our background. 
Not a typical semiconductor company you 
might say.
And you're right. But then, there's noth­
ing typical about the way we work. Our 
standards are high. We don't maintain those 
standards by dictating artificial structures, 
or standing in the way of new ideas. The 
people we work with want an environment
that lets them prove themselves, and that's 
what we try to give them.
So that's where we are today. You can 
have some impact on where we'll be tomor­
row, if you have interest in one of these 
areas.
¦ DESIGN ENGINEERING
¦ PROCESS ENGINEERING
¦ COMPONENT/RELIABILITY 
ENGINEERING
¦ SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
¦ PRODUCT & TEST ENGINEERING 
Let's talk LSI. We're recruiting on campus
on Thursday, March 22. Or write to Jeffry 
Gibson, Manager of College Relations— 
LSI Semiconductor Group, Digital Equip­
ment Corporation, Dept. CM, 175 Flanders 
Road, Westboro, Massachusetts 01581. An 
equal opportunity employer, m/f.
mm
raise, is coming up soon. I hope to be able 
to stay on the Senate, and do all I can to 
minimize the rise in tuition. Students do 
have an impact on school policy. I would 
like to be your voice in Student Govern­
ment. Thank you.
CFA—3 Seats 
Cherie A. Hodge 
I am presently filling a vacant seat in 
Senate and am running for a full term seat. 
As a member of the Academic Affairs 
Committee, I feel I can input the needs of 
the Fine Arts community and the campus 
as a whole. I have enjoyed it so far and 
want to continue my service.
AMS—1 Seat
Andrew Lerner
My name is Andrew Lerner. I am an 
AMS junior who has grown tired of exist­
ing as just another student at CMU. I 
would enjoy the opportunity of involve­
ment. Without this ingredient I feel that 
change in the community will be a distant
goal that can never be achieved. Change is 
continued on page 11
THEREA 
DIFFERENCE!
EDUCATIONAL 
CENTERS'
ESSEX HOUSE LL2 
Corner of Negley & Centre 
Pittsburgh 15206
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Visit Our Centers 
And See For Yourself 
Why We Make The Difference
Call Days, Eves & Weekends
661-2772
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKieO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Baseball: Still America's
Favorite Pastime
by Frederic J. Siegel
Although Major League Baseball today 
resembles more of a giant business than 
it does our ’national pasttime,’ I still 
find myself intrigued by it all. There 
still remains nothing like the smell of 
a newly oiled baseball mitt or the sound of 
a ball cracking off a bat. While I certain­
ly don’t approve of what the free agency 
system has done to baseball in the last 
few years, I can understand and even 
appreciate why a Pete Rose would jump 
from his team of sixteen years, the 
Red’s, to join the Phillies. Whether we 
like it or not, baseball is a business like 
anything else. Dave Parker has the right 
to collect $1 million a year for playing 
baseball just as George Steinbrenner has 
the right to gather the best talent avail­
able to make the New York Yankees 
Champions for a third straight year. 
In the final analysis, baseball is a bus­
iness that depends not on whether a team 
wins or loses, but whether or not people 
pay to come to the ballpark.
For an avid fan like myself, spring
training always provides me with the 
opportunity to make my annual predict­
ions as to the divisional, playoff and 
World Series winners for the coming 
year. Taking into account the many
changes that took place in baseball during 
the past winter, this season promises to be 
just as exciting as last years. After 
dominating the Eastern division of the 
National League for three years, but failing 
to make it to the World Series,
Philadelphia signed Pete Rose and 
acquired Manny Trillo via the trade route. 
They won’t help. With only Steve Carlton, 
Randy Lerch and Dick Ruthven, the
Phillies are a pair of pitchers away from 
winning the division. Look for, yes, 
Pete Rose, to cause disension and push 
the Phillies into second place. There 
remains no reason for the Pittsburgh 
Pirates not to run away with their division 
this season. Last year, they were the fastest 
team in the league with 213 stolen bases, 
and the hottest team in the home stretch, 
winning 37 of their last 49 games. With 
Dave Parker squared away with a new con­
tract, Rennie Stennett, Willie Stargell, and 
Jerry Reuss healthy, the addition of re­
liever Enrique Romo and minute man Lee 
Lacy, the Pirates may just be the best team 
in the National League. Their greatest 
problem will still be figuring out why 
they’re playing in an empty ballpark. In 
third place, look for the Montreal Expos. 
Led by Dave Cash, Tony Perez, Andre 
Dawson and Ross Grimsley, the Expos 
have the next best shot at taking away 
the division from the Pirates. The next 
three places belong to the Chicago Cubs, 
St. Louis Cardinals and New York Mets 
respectively. Neither of these teams have 
made any attempt at going beyond just a- 
nother rebuilding year.
The team with the best opportunity to 
win the Western Division of the National 
League are the San Francisco Giants. Led 
by ace Vida Blue, Jack Clark and two-time 
batting champion, Bill Madlock, the Giants 
should run away with the title. Although 
last year they led the division most of the 
season just to disintegrate and fall to third, 
this year they have the right amount of 
confidence and experience to push a stale 
Dodger ball club into second. In losing 
Tommy John to the Yankees, Los Angeles 
made themselves considerably weaker this 
season. If they are to rely on the arms of
ÀND BCYOW
[Ed. Note: Sherry Siegel graciously allow­
ed Heshie the bus driver, here on a family 
visit, the use of today's column. Heshie’s 
brother Bernie the cab driver is a contribu­
tor to National Lampoon. J
Hello, hello, hello. Jeez, I’ll tell you, 
you sure do have some big holes in your 
streets here. I thought driving in New York 
was bad. But I’ll tell you one thing we 
don’t have to worry about—those crazy 
buses with the split down the middle. 
Never seen anything like ’em before. Don’t 
think they’d be too comfortable, either, 
sitting or standing in the crack when they 
turn a corner. If I was the one in charge of 
buying buses, I’d have returned those. 
They just look broken to me.
But this is a nice place you got here, 
though. Carnegie-Mellon University? 
Sounds kind of fruity to me. Ha, ha. Hey, 
speaking of fruits, how’s the action 
around here? All I’m seeing is, these artsy- 
fartsy types are walking around with their 
rulers with the extra piece on top of them 
like hats, and those flat suitcases like they 
were armed for a street fight. And every­
body else with an adding machine hanging 
off their pants like whatchacallits— 
chastity belts. Pretty weird. Me, I wouldn’t 
have any trouble getting action. You’d be 
surprised what some of those New York 
chicks want you to do with them in the 
back of the bus during your break. And I 
didn’t even go to college. I feel bad for you 
students, though. Looks like you got a 
lot of weirdos on campus.
Saw some really weird people walking 
around last Saturday night. I asked this 
guy wearing a black and white dress what’s 
going on— they can’t hurt you, the ones in 
the dresses-and he says it’s Bows Arts 
Fever or something. Dancing, I guess. Sort of 
liberal of you people to have a disco for 
queers right on campus.
I hear that even the marching band 
wears skirts—those checked Irish things. 
One student, she tells me they're Tartans. 
Then another student tells me Tartan is the
name of the eatery in the student union. 
So I go to the union and ask where the 
Tartan is, and they send me downstairs to 
the student newspaper. And down there, 
they tell me it’s the name of the football 
team. These are college students, and they 
don’t even know.
Looks like there’s plenty to do if you’re 
straight, though. Lots of lectures, movies, 
parties. I went to see that priest, Bucky 
Fuller, though usually I don’t go much for 
religion. Funny name for a minister, but 
this one’s okay. Talks about pyramid 
power. Like how they make your razors 
sharp and how if you put one under your 
bed it makes you better at sex. I never had 
to do that, though.
Well, speaking of things to do. I’ve got 
some myself so I’ll be on my way. I asked 
a chick where’s a good place to get a beer 
around here, so she looks at me and says, 
you should go to the Holiday, down the 
block. So I’m off.*Study hard.
Andy Messersmith and Don Sutton and the 
bats of aging Reggie Smith, Steve Garvey 
and Rick Monday, then they should expect 
a finish behind the Giants. In third place 
look for the San Diego Padres, led by the 
ageless Gaylord Perry. San Diego has made 
some slight improvements and will not face 
the competition that has kept them further 
behind in the past. The Cinncinnati Reds 
will be lucky to finish in fourth. The Big 
Machine will probably finish fourth not to 
their credit, but because both Houston and 
Atlanta are so bad. Without Pete Rose, 
Sparky Anderson and a healthy Joe Mor­
gan, the Reds will be forced to start anoth­
er of their rebuilding processes. With very 
little talent to speak of, look for the Hous­
ton Astros and Atlanta Braves to finish 
fifth and sixth respectively.
Whether or not the New York Yankees 
decide to get along this year, look for them 
to repeat as World Champions. Adding 
Tommy John and Luis Tiant to an already 
famous pitching staff will make the Yan­
kees unbeatable. With personnel like Reg­
gie Jackson, Thurmon Munson, Craig Net­
tles, and Bucky Dent, the only real compe­
tition the Yankees will face is from Boston 
and Milwaukee. I like the Brewers for se­
cond and the Red Sox for third this year, 
because, it remains doubtful that the Sox 
will be able to overcome the embarrass­
ment of losing an 11 game lead in Septem­
ber and one of their top pitchers, Tiant, to 
the rival Yankees. Although they have the 
incredible Jim Rice, recently signed to a 
$4.9 million contract, the Boston Red Sox 
neither have the pitching or defensive tal­
ent to finish any better than third. In con­
trast, the Brewers will be furnished with 
outstanding staff of pitchers including
Mike Caldwell, Jim Slaton and Moose Hass, 
some solid hitting from Larry Hisle and Sal 
Bando, and the determination lacking 
from Boston to make a serious challenge at 
the Yankees. Fourth, fifth, and sixth re­
spectively will again see the Baltimore Ori­
oles, Detroit Tigers, Cleveland Indians and 
Toronto Blue Jays. As the Yankees get 
stronger, they all just become weaker.
Fortunately, the Western Division of the 
American League will not have to suffer 
the embararassment of watching the Kan­
sas City Royals lose in the playoffs for the 
fourth time in four years. The California 
Angels, bursting with the dream of a divi­
sion title may just see that dream come 
true this year as a result of the off-season 
acquisition of Rod Carew. With a pitching 
staff sporting Nolan Ryan and Frank Ta- 
nana, the Angels will push Kansas City to 
the place where they really belong, second. 
With no major personnel changes, the Ro­
yals will face a tough challenge for second 
from the Texas Rangers. With A1 Oliver, 
Richie Zisk, Buddy Bell and Oscar Gamble, 
the Rangers can finally be considered a 
competitor. With Sparky Lyle and Jim 
Kern in the bullpen, the Rangers add two 
more reasons why September will be a hot 
month for the American League’s Western 
Division. Not that they are really worth 
mentioning, but falling somewhere be­
tween fourth and sixth this season will be 
the Chicago White Sox, Minnesota Twins, 
Oakland A’s and Seattle Mariners.
There you have it. Those that will be 
the best and worst in 1979. Whether it’s 
the Pirates or Yankees who wind up as 
World Champions this season, it remains a 
certainty that baseball will provide us 
another joyful summer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TAR TAN-March 13, 1979
NEED A RIDE TO THE 
AIRPORT?
RIDE THE A PHI O 
SHUTTLEBUS
MARCH 23,1979
LEAVING FROM
MOREWOOD 
T 1:45 AM. 
2:15 PM. 
4:45 PM.
DONOR HALL 
12:00 NOON 
2:30 PM. 
5:00 PM.
PRICE $2.50
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT THE 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
echies at theTop Dm HEN:
Whoisit: Barry M. Rowles 
Graduated: 1950 
Major: Industrial Management 
TQPA: Over 3.5
Currently: Pres, of Hublein International.
In our childhood, we ate M&Ms, and 
they didn't melt in our hands. Later, we 
grew up to Mars Condy bars. As teenagers, 
in our fast-food days, we enjoyed "Finger- 
lickin' good" Kentucky Fried Chicken. 
Today we consume great volumes of 
Hublein-imported alcohol. What do all of 
these have in common? All were, at the 
time we were their consumers, under the 
guidance of Barry M. Rowles.
Before we were born, Mr. Rowles was 
preparing himself for these im­
portant services. After his time in the 
Navy, he won a scholarship in competition 
in his native Minnesota, and came on that 
scholarship to CMU. He arrived here in 
1946 as an Electrical Engineering Major. 
In his own words, he then "bounced 
around CIT for awhile, and then left 
engineering to try Industrial Management. 
"I kind of floated into it." He "kind of 
floated into a program which was still 
in flux, but was beginning to congeal. 
Old courses, such as Plant Design, 
were useless, but new ones such as Quan- 
tative Analysis, were very important to 
him later. He liked the program in its 
semi-formed stage, because it offered 
flexibitity and a wide-range of available 
courses. The wide range was important for 
his wide-ranging career.
That career began with the 3—M com­
pany near his Minnesota home. For 3—M, 
Mr. Rowles worked in Research and New 
Product Development. He performed those
services for two years, and the training in 
computor operations he received there 
made him valuable in his next job as a 
consultant for a Pittsburgh computer firm. 
Armco Steel found his talents valuable, 
for whom he worked for several years. 
He moved to their accounting depart­
ment, but soon found that to be of greater 
use to them, he'd need more education in 
that field. So Mr. Rowles went to Pitt, 
and in 1957 received his Masters in ac­
counting. That same year, a recruiter 
called from M&M candies. He took their 
job. The Pitt degree paid of here. His 
excellent performance in their accounting 
and forecasting department led to advance­
ment to Operations Manager of their Com­
puter department.
By the time we were eating M&M's, 
the company became M&M/Mars as they 
expanded. The year was 1963. For two 
years, Mr. Rowles worked for M&M/Mars 
until 1965 when he became more than 
just an employee. In that year, he became 
president of M&M/Mars. In this role Mr. 
Rowles continued for three years, until 
he moved to Hublein. M&M is a family 
operated business, and not being a mem­
ber of that family contributed to his move. 
For Hublein, Mr. Rowles' first assignment 
was to head the Hamm brewery in St. 
Paul. Long before his arrival, Hamm was 
in trouble. By 1971 (he had arrived in 
'68) the brewery went under; Mr. Rowles 
survived the sinking to move within 
Hublein to Kentucky Fried Chicken, 
which Hublein acquired in 1971. This 
transfer brought Mr. Rowles back east 
to Hartford.
Most of us had tasted Kentucky Fried 
chicken by the time he took the helm.
it* the
...
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)COLORINGPERMANENTS
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Srt. 9-6
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
No
Ar imtments
The firm did well under his command 
until around 1975 when energy prices 
and those of the food's ingredients spelled 
trouble for the Colonel and for Hublein. 
Wehn KFC was let go in 1976, Mr. Rowles 
was invited to head Hublein International. 
He now fills that post, satisfying our taste 
for spirits.
This varied career matched not only 
the varied education he had received, 
but also his extracurricular activities. 
Mr. Rowles wasn't involved in many, 
he said, because he had been to a large 
degree in high school, he had then been 
in the Navy. These activities reduced 
his taste for extra activities, and increased 
that for education. The few he did take 
part in were, however, highly varied.
He was an editor of the CMU TARTAN 
for a year, he was a member of DTD, 
and was an intra mural athlete, he enjoyed 
a good education mixed with, as he put it, 
"Lots of fun." Barry M. Rowles—Techie 
at the Top.
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con­
fidential, understanding 
support, call Birthright.
621-1988
GOOD AS GOLD
BY JOSEPH HELLER
Uniquely Heller. Fascinating, funny, 
infuriating, savage, and totally true. Good 
as do/d is not only destined to join Joseph 
Heller's previous novels as a major Am­
erican classic, it surpasses them in 
wisdom, skill, and hilarity and ranks as 
his supreme work.
In Good as Gold, Joseph Heller does 
for the White House what he did for the 
military in Catch-22. Brilliantly, he captur­
es the fractured logic of the Potomac with 
an absurd and moving accuracy.
• emu bookstore •

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 11
Candidates' PositÌòns .
continued from page 8
a compelling motive to create something 
new. In reality all things change, except 
the fact of changing.
A recent TARTAN article describes 
this campus community as being one of 
“the dullest” in the area. I personally do 
not want to be a member of this commun­
ity without voicing some protest. The stu­
dent Senate affords one ; the opportunity 
to express his or her ideas on a construct­
ive level. Within this atmosphere I feel my 
ideas can be acted upon so as to affect 
meaningful change.
The type of leadership that I will con­
vey is the kind where I will not be re­
stricted by the way things have always 
been done. I think that effective leader­
ship within the Student Senate should 
be that which is continually looking 
for the best ways to affect changes, not 
necessarily the most familiar.
With this in mind I ask the people 
of AMS to be dynamic in their choice of 
Student Senate representatives. Please 
vote for the candidate you feel will act 
for constructive change and wish your 
interests in mind.
Craig Zimmerman
The theme for this year’s election 
should be “And Now For Something 
Completely Different”, and in that spirit
TEACH IN JAPAN
Anyone with a bachelor’s degree in dif­
ferent engineering fields, produc­
tion/manufacturing quality control 
materials management or procurement 
wishing to teach full-time fo r one or two 
years in Japan should write to-
Personnel Director 
International Education Services 
Shin Taiso Building 
10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome 
Shibuya-ky, Tokyo 150 
Japan
The position involves teaching 
Japanese businessmen and engineers the 
basic vocabulary in various fields
No Japanese language is required for 
classroom instruction Teaching ex 
perience is not required An orientation is 
given in Tokyo
Information on salary transportation 
and housing can be obtained by providing 
International Education Services with a 
detailed resume and a leather indicating 
an interest in the position
Personal interviews will be held in your 
area between the middle to end of April
Selected applicants would be expected 
to arrive in Tokyo from June through Sep­
tember 1979
!
I offei my radical dissidence as the only 
means to subvert our heavy-handed admin­
istration.
In the past, the Student Senate has 
acted as a ‘puppet’ government with 
President Cyert and other administrators 
‘pulling the strings’. If the current trend 
continues, we would suffer no great loss 
if the Senate were to fold altogether. 
Why not submit to the totalitarian admin­
istration and let them assume the trivial 
responsibilities which we, as students, 
now possess? My agreement with this 
suggestion is not far off, but I feel a ‘last 
ditch’ effort is in order.
The discontinuation of the music 
education program, the Martin Russ in­
cident, and inflationary tuitions are all 
examples of the administration’s total 
disregard for student interests. I’m willing 
to compromise with the administration, 
continued on page 26
The Summer Studies Office of Carnegie-Melton University 
is looking to hire a staff of resident counselors to coordinate 
and supervise a student-life program for high school students 
attending the Advanced Placement/Early Admission, Fine Arts 
Pre-College and Project Upward Bound Programs. Counselors 
must be energetic and willing to live and work closely with the 
programs' participants. Compensation includes room and board 
for the six-week session, June 25 through August 3. Appli­
cations, along with the detailed job descriptions, are available 
in the Summer Studies Office, first floor of Warner Hall.
YOU’D LIKE To take meaningful responsibilityas early as possible in your career.
YOU WANT To take tun advantage ot yourtalents, skills, desires.
VOITK ANXIOUS To help develop, produce.sell, distribute more than 15.000 products of a widely diversified company.
GENERAL 
TIRE
“AFutureFor\bu”
The Place Where These opportunities Are waiting For You
• Mechanical Engineering
• Chemical Engineering
• Chemistry
• Corporate Management Training 
Programs —
Production Management, 
Accounting/Finance, Sales, 
Industrial Relations
General Tire Offers Diversified Opportunities
TIRE DIVISION is among the nation’s top five 
tire manufacturers. To meet the increasing 
demands of passenger, truck, and off-the- 
road tire markets, we need YOU. We’re 
modernizing, expanding and opening new 
opportunities for you to become involved in 
a constantly growing industry.
CHEMICAL/PLASTICS DIVISION, producers 
of Penn tennis balls, fiberglass auto body 
parts, wall coverings, and much more, boasts 
the best in talent and technology. Join a 
state-of-the-art company with unlimited 
growth potential for you.
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION serves a 
multitude of markets from automotive to 
aerospace, with over 6,000 products. For 
every market we serve, there’s a challenge 
for you, and new doors to open.
RESEARCH DIVISION, responsible for prod­
uct process innovation, quality improvement, 
and cost reduction, is a corporate function 
that will involve you with the other divisions 
in General, along with other professionals, 
including chemists, physicists, engineers 
and many others. If you seek versatility, this 
is for you.
Contact your College Placement Office to arrange an appointment when we’re on your 
campus.Friday, March 23,1979
Mr. Clint Simmons, College Recruitment Coordinator
THE GENERAL TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY
One General Street, Akron, Ohio 44329
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
LESLIE DRESBOLD
MICKEY
We have moved our Oakland Store to
3613 ^ 
Forbes A re. *
(the former Strand Theatre) 
Come Visit
LESLIE DRESBOLD
for the best in 
ts TYPEWRITERS *=> 
CALCULATORS 
'¦.¿sCt REPAIRS 
RENTALS 
OFFICE AND BOOKKEEPING SUPPLIES^
OTHER LOCATIONS: NORTH HILLS, SHARPSBURGH 
MONROEVILLE MALL, SOUTH HILLS VILLAGE, AND 
DOWNTOWN AT FORT Pin TYPEWRITERS.
'U PARKING A T AUTHORITY GARAGE
681-0990 or 681-6637Hours, 7:30 to 6 PM., 3527 Forbes Ave., Oakland
FINE MALT LIQUOR
or anytime “when just a beer isn’t enough”
C MCltlMAN ItrwiNG CO . INC . t* CROSSE. WIS AND OTH€t CITIIS

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
Beth Arden
I rolled the paper into the typewriter and be­
gan my paper. Yuck, how I hated to write papers. 
This one was due in two hours. "The imagination 
is the most powerful tool we possess," I started. 
Hmmm, it indeed is, I mused, losing my concen­
tration and drifting off again.
My thoughts floated off to the world of the fu­
ture. I hoped that it would be as terrific as Star 
Trek portrayed it. Star Trek had always been my 
favorite show and I loved to think of the possi­
bilities that the creator had offered for the future 
of humankind. He had created a world so vivid 
and so believable that even now I look to the 
skies expecting the Enterprise to go whizzing by.
What a thrill it would be to meet the characters 
that Gene Roddenberry molded and shaped with
TARTAN FOLIO
MARCH 13, 1979/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 20 
SCI FI ISSUEhis imagination, I thought. Me was iiKe a taienxea 
artist sculpting a figure from clay — creating a 
form where there once was none.
I was abruptly awakened from my reverie by 
the buzzer. Someone was at the front door to 
our apartment. Cripes, at this rate I'll never get 
any work done, I thought.
The buzzer sounded again before I got up to 
answer it. I was really taken aback when I opened 
the door, though. Even my active imagination 
couldn't have invented what was standing there.
McCoy, Kirk and Spock stood in the doorway, 
surveying the place cautiously. "May we come 
in?" the Captain ventured.
I regained my composure, smirked and decided 
that somebody was playing a very elaborate game 
on me. My grin became wider and I decided to 
play along. "Sure , come on in."
They made their way into the room, seated 
themselves in the living room and began speaking 
to each other in hushed tones. This puzzled me, 
and so did their street cloths. Why would anyone 
go to this trouble and not put the actors in their 
easily recognizable uniforms? Oh, well, that was 
probably all just part of the scheme.
I asked them if they would like anything to ea,. 
or drink. McCoy responded. "No, thanks, Chris, 
we can't stay for long. Why don't you come and 
join us and we'll tell you why we're here."
I took his suggestion and sat myself on the 
floor in the middle of the three. This was down­
right fun. My paper would just have to wait.
"You are a very perceptive person," Kirk be 
gan. "Lord knows we could use more like you 
aboard the ship."
The Captain stood up and eyed the traffic in 
the street two floors below. A few minutes later, 
he turned back and continued.
"But that's neither here nor there. The reason 
we are here is to tell you that you've got a lot of 
potential and that you should develop your ideas 
to the fullest."
I loved that line. Whoever planned this either 
had a great sense of humor or was really a fan of 
mine.
"Why thank you, Captain. I'm glad someone 
likes my ideas — although I will admit that they 
are a bit eccentric at times..."
i am especially imeresteu Ph yuui luedD un tne 
human imagination," Spock broke in. "Mostly 
about why you think it is such a powerful tool."
Before long, Spock and I were involved in a 
heavy conversation about the workings of the hu­
man mind. I really enjoyed it. Spock's disciplined 
approach to things was just "fascinating".
About twenty minutes later, McCoy broke in 
on our conversation. He and Kirk were anxious to 
get back to the ship.
"Look, I really hate to break things up here," 
he said, smiling in that sarcastic way of his, "but 
I have a few patients I have to check up on."
Five minutes later, Spock still needed some ur­
ging.
"Come on, Spock. We've got a few other stops 
to go before this mission is finished," Kirk 
ordered.
McCoy grinned. "You just can't take that Vul­
can anywhere, Jim."
Kirk just shook his head in response.
Spock nodded, stood up. He was about ready 
to leave when he remembered something, slipped 
off his ski cap and went into the kitchen. He 
returned momentarily.
Soon they were on their way. I hated to watch 
them go. What fun this had all been! Sometimes
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS
ANDY EPSTEIN 
KEVIN Q. BROWN 
RUSSELL E. SMITH 
BETH ARDEN
COVER DESIGN: FRED LAPOINTE
COMING ATTRACTIONS: Next week's themeg 
Parodies of Classical Literary Works.
OTICE: Those interested in Folio Asst. Editor
position, contact the TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979—T A RT AN—Page 15
gets hurt, but not this time. Whoever did this had 
real class, I decided.
Feeling really refreshed and motivated, I 
turned my attention back to the paper. Spock, or 
whoever he was, had provided me with some 
interesting ideas for my theme. I had no trouble 
finishing it and handing it in within the hour.
When I returned from class that night, my 
roomate greeted me and handed me something. 
"I found this and the note on the kitchen table," 
she said, perplexed. "The note is to you, so I 
guess it's yours."
She shrugged and headed for her room Well, I 
thought, that's one nice thing about having your 
roommate think you're weird — nothing surprises 
her anymore.
I sauntered into my room reading the note as 
I went:
Chris,
I would like you to have this medallion. It is 
the symbol of my people, but more than that, it 
is exactly what the name means: Infinite Diversi­
ty in Infinite Combinations, IDIC. This is the key 
to understanding the imagination and the mind. 
Incorporate this into your ideas and you will be 
on the right track.
Respectfull yours, 
Lt. Commander Spock, First Officer 
USS Enterprise
I giggled. What a fabulous end to a prank! I 
shook my head and looked at the necklace. It 
was unique and I wondered where it could have 
been purchased.
As I eyed it, I gulped. I had just remembered 
something that Spock had said — in fact, he 
opened our conversation with it. It was the first 
line of my paper. He had been in the living room, 
the typewriter in the bedroom. Interesting. I 
knew Vulcans were sensitive to others' thoughts, 
but this was ridiculous.
Before I got too excited, I decided to have the 
metallurgy lab check out the metal the next day.
A few days later, all the test results were back 
in. I was appalled. The findings showed that the 
metal was an alloy not known to humankind. The 
whole metallurgy department was in an uproar. 
Everyone wanted to know where I got it.
I said I found it on the street. Somehow, I 
didn't think they'd believe I got it from a 
friend in the future.
To this day, I still don't know what really hap­
pened that day I was writing that psychology 
paper. My logically trained brain says, "No way 
did that really happen, or if it did, it was a 
prank." But who knows?
I'm really pleased that things turned out the 
way they did, though. This is the first time I've 
had physical evidence of the realities my imagina­
tion cranks out every day.
SCIENCE FICTION/ 
SCIENCE FACT?
In an effort to aid the physics department in 
their search for "fair" quiz problems. I would like 
to suggest using this one (which is about as fair as 
the ones we have been getting in class).
A bucket of mass .5 kg. holding 1.5 liters of 
water is attached to a spring (k=2.1) and whirled 
in a verticle circle (with respect to the earth) at 
an angular velocity dependent upon the equation 
W=-e sin squared (0- + T/4), where 0 is the angle 
above the horizontal.
At the bottom of it's path, the bucket springs 
a leak. The hole increases in size with time ac­
cording to the equation A=T Tsquared/M, where 
A is the area of the hole, T is the number of 
seconds after the bucket begins to leak, and M 
is the total mass of the bucket-water system at 
each instant in time.
This entire event, of course, takes place in a 
boxcar traveling at 60 mph on a curved road 
of radius .75 kilometers (banked at an angle 
0=8.3 degrees) with coefficient of static friction 
u=0.9
How long does it take for the bucket to 
empty completely? (Show all work, even 
thought no partial credit will be given).
Brigham
LIFE IN THE BIG CITY
Russell T. Smith
"What!"
"Peter! Why are you calling me on my vaca­
tion?"
"I don't care if it's important? First you forced 
me to take this week vacation. Now you wake me 
up on the first day while I'm sleeping in."
"Unreasonable?? You're the one..."
"...died? You're certain?"
"...choose a new secretary! Peter, don't bother 
me with administrative details. In the future sim­
ply do your job. Pick someone and have her type 
the paper revisions that are waiting to be done. 
That should keep her busy. The lab can live with­
out me since you've decreed that I'm to be on va­
cation."
"Peter...Peter...go away."
"Only if you're lucky Peter. Yes. Goodbye."
As Wayne Parker hung up the phone he shout­
ed at the top of his lungs,"Minnie, it was the new 
administator being stupid. You should have heard 
him being boneheaded, Minnie. MINNIE-dam­
mit...."
Just then Minnie the mechanical cat trundled 
into the room. She stopped exactly ten feet from 
the necklace-like telltale on the nightstand. 
Wayne giggled at the sight of her and thought a- 
bout her conceptual beginning as a mouse he kil­
led with a hammer in the basement. His mind 
flashed through the stages of her construction, 
his triumph when the mechanical housing finally 
showed full mobility and he inserted the inte­
grated circuit that was her brain into its socket.
"Minnie, show me your catch."
At the Heyword 'catch' Minnie's stomache 
opened displaying nine mice. Each had a tiny dart 
protruding form its body. With swollen tongue 
and grossly bulging eyes, each was curled into a
M *r* ** m m Jmr mn ¿4
poisonous agony of paralysis. He carefully dated 
each mouse as it appeared.The mice stay alive for 
a trifle over three days, he found. As a rule, he al­
lowed them to sufffer until the evening of the 
third day. He then placed them on the exact spot 
where he killed the mouse that inspired Minnie, 
and summarily executed them with the hammer.
"Must have been cold outside last night."
While showering, Wayne pondered for the 
thousandth time his feelings for his employer, the 
Universal Tehcnologies Weapons Research Center. 
The more he pondered, the blacker his mood 
grew.
"Minnie, why do I stay at the lab?" he asked as 
he dressed. Minnie, standing exactly ten feet 
away, refused to reply.
"It was great in the old days, Resinski was 
still the exec then. He was a great guy to work 
for. Never a word out of him. That imbecile Peter 
Brougham can't seem to jibber-jabber enough. 
Always prying, always wondering if there's been 
any progress. If there has been he demands a full 
report which he scurries off with as if it were 
some impossible valuable treasure. I tried to ask
him for some elbow room once but he repulsed 
me, callusly. Peter's an imbecile."
Minnie stood in the kitchen doorway exactly 
ten feet away form Wayne and continued to listen 
to him during his breakfast. He described how 
oppressed he felt at the lab. He told her how his 
work was poor because of the emotional strains 
the lab produced. He genuinely felt bad about 
this but wasn't certain of what to do about it. He 
told her of the individuals at the lab who would 
do anything for his position. He admitted his fear 
of them to Minnie. Minnie listened respectfully in 
the kitchen doorway; although at the keyword 
fear she armed her darts since Wayne's elevated 
heart and respiration rate corroborated his use 
of the keyword. She ignored his pleas for a re- 
sponce, however.
After breakfast, Minnie followed exactly ten 
feet behind Wayne as he did the remaining house­
hold chores. He now spoke to her continuously 
but she offered no answers to him. He was ex­
tremely agitated now and spoke rapidly, almost 
hysterically. Suddenly, deciding to leave, he dash­
ed to the front door.
"I'm leaving for the grocery store, Minnie," he 
shrilled.
"Protect the house."
At the keywords 'protect' and 'house', Minnie 
sent a silent signal to the front door. The front 
door concurred because it had been listening, too. 
The front door, along with every other opening 
leading from inside the house to outside, locked 
itself as Wayne reached for the door handle. He 
heard the door lock in front of him and quickly 
turned to look at Minnie. Minnie was approxi­
mately eight feet away and closing fast.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—TARTAN—March 13, 1979
NONSINGULAR REALITY
FJ. LaPointe
He paced in frustration about the room. This 
microcosm of existence within a huge dormitory 
complex. The barriers of his niche in the universe. 
Uneven rows of books, thin, long and fat, stacked 
along a shelf. In a second-hand typewriter lay an 
abandoned half-writted theme paper filled with 
grammatical errors, improper diction and misspel­
lings. Behind his grey eyes his mind could see 
nothing save his miserable predicament. His dis­
arrayed desk top of papers, letters, pencils, erasers 
and pens, his unmade bed, his clothes sprawled 
about the floor comprised the invisible back­
ground of glumness.
Sometimes just a name, jumble of letters in the 
alphabet, a random social security number and a 
list of fluctuating test scores—friendless—adrift 
through a murky sea of faces at school. Life was 
getting to be just a daily "plug and chug" rou- 
•tine.
He gazed out of his window overlooking the 
imposing gothic structure of the university. 
Against the glass breathed a hostile world of bit­
ter cold. Clouds of snow swirled covering the 
campus like "the vanilla icing of my graduation 
cake."
"So now here you are at this great college. Our 
boy at an Ivy League ..." A sardonic smile for his 
parents. "Who the hell cares ..." These words 
formed by small lips drawn in a lugubrious ex­
pression. A sudden loud and insistent knocking 
outside his door broke his soliloquey.
He mechanically went to open it. "Greetings 
my friend—" A dapper old man appeared at the 
doorway. He sported a grey tweed suit with a 
bright red bowtie around his wite collar. An enor­
mous black stovepipe hat with four bands of red 
lay askew upon his head of thick shining silver. 
One white-gloved hand rested on the frame of the 
doorway and the other brushed the curled strands 
of his glistening white mustache. "From the show 
that never ends."
I was taken aback by the unexpected appear­
ance of this portentous figure. My mouth hung 
wide in bewilderment.
"May I come in?"
"Why ..." Yet before I could finish he was 
standing in my room directly in front of me com* 
in to my shoulders in height and he promptly 
handed me a small card as if out of some inveter­
ate business nature.
"Have no fear—that I am here," he spoke in a 
low dulcet tone.
I looked down at the card in my hand. Blank. I 
turned it over. Nothing. Just a blank card?
"Hey now, what is this—"
He smiled, flaunting a row of beaming straight 
teeth. He flicked his cane from one hand to the 
other. I hadn't seen that he was carrying that cane 
before. Just like it appeared out of the air.
"Well then—look again," he admonished in a 
high voice like the squawking of a discontented 
cat. I looked down. There was printing on the 
card. But I could have sworn that it was blank a 
second ago. It read—
"Yes, my boy—I've come to bring you joy."
"This is impossible! You can't-"
"Lad—don't be bad. What you just have said, 
flows not from you head. An erroneous state­
ment. The pronoun 'this' predisposed the fact ot 
truth in the present. This' assumes tangibility, 
existence, reality. This is impossible.' Surely you 
can understand why that statement is a useless 
paradox and surely you of all people do not be­
lieve in 'Impossibility.' Where would mankind be 
today if it gave into that pessimistic attitude? 
Why, there would never have been a glorious Ro­
man Empire spanning -the globe, America would 
never have been discovered! Mankind would never 
have set foot on the Moon or unleashed the pow­
er of the atom. Why—”
"I get the message. But you're the—"
"Yes, yes ... no need for names though. 
Names are just a mere piece of trivia. In the uni­
verses I've been called many things by many 
people. A name is irrelevent. What I am is most 
important. And I've come to end the misery of 
this shameful mockery you call your life."
"I've got to be dreaming or else I'm on some­
thing!"
"Sad to say, my boy, you are alive and awake. 
And though you are alive enjoying good health 
and many comforts you have never been more 
callous and dead. You may think me a figment of 
your imagination but I come from a world where 
this planet Earth is considered but a hideous crea­
tion of an insane imagination. Your world is fan­
tasy, not mine, fellow. But let us assume that my 
world is fantasy and I am but a mere imagination 
bom of your intellect. This is the moot point. The 
salient features of my world touch you everyday. 
Fantasy must exist as surely as reality does. As 
surely as day must follow night. As surely as evil 
must exist for good to exist. Both worlds flow in 
the universe. Often, my world is like a dam whose 
waters occasionally overflow, seeping into fibers 
of this planet's reality.
This whole campus, this institution devoted to 
learning and knowledge is but an isolated instance 
of an experiment in fantasy. Now this paper," he 
walked to my desk and pointed at my theme pa­
per, "that you have devoted so much time and ef­
fort is but a fragment of fiction. Your whole life 
here at the college is geared towards passing tests, 
handing in papers and spitting out knowledge all 
to get a good grade. Now tell me, is this college 
experience really preparing you or telling you 
what life is all about. Aha," he cupped his ear and 
cocked his head toward the corner of the room, 
"your stereo permeates this room with the sweet 
reality of my world. Just as pretended life and 
imitations of reality flood the television, the 
movie houses, the newpapers, the libraries and 
churches. No sooner does some historical event 
occur that a movie of that event is being produc­
ed, a book is being written with the effect of ob­
scuring that previous reality, tinging and blending 
it with fantasy. In your boredom you retreat to a 
book or magazine and live out a life in your 
mind—vicarious experience to help you cope. You 
are inevitable drawn into the tangibility of my 
world ... or would you rather evade my truth in 
a lunatic asylum?" he chuckled leafing casually 
thorugh a comic book lying on my nightstand. 
"Take for instance that party 9ou were at last 
night where, and I quote from your psychology 
class 'friends talked but never communicated,' 
and all got bombed into transitory bliss. Ah, 
drugs and alcohols are some of the doors to my 
world. But there's a much better way to reach 
my world—much faster and much less painful. 
Ah, my world," he mused, twisting the left point 
of his mustache, "is a world of plain truth and 
plain evil. No shades of grey exist. A real world of 
danger, adventure and romance. A world of the 
soul. Reality, my friend. A lasting panacea to 
your unhappiness. Assuage your frayed nerves
and forget your maudlin troubles—or lack of 
them," he snorted as though amused at his own 
wit.
He looked at me with those intense black eyes 
of his.
"Don't delay and waste another day. Simply 
walk this way."
He sprightly turned around and walked toward 
the door. It appeared that he was going to collide 
with the door then he melted into it and vanish­
ed save for the tip of his cane protruding through 
the wood, beckoning me. "Don't delay and waste 
another day"—the words echoed either through 
the air or in my brain. "Well, don't be staring but 
rather daring"—an impatient disembodied voice 
reached my ears. I took a breath and stepped 
through the door.
Impressions exploding.
The orb of the sun seething with golden rays, | 
trenchand swords of light penetrating the billowy 
clouds, warmly touching the lush green valley. A 
cool breeze, clean and invigorating licked at his 
face. A true paradise.
"Have no fear. Now you are hear. You are left 
to your own devices." And the old man evaporat­
ed into the air.
"Wait! What am I to do here?" He vainly ran 
towards the place where the old man last stood. 
Two rows of beaming teeth materialized; the old 
man's smile floated in the air. "You will know 
what to do when the time comes. Live out your 
fantasy. Realize one of the greatest powers He has 
given you. Though you can't create, you can im- 
aginate! Knowledge and ability without the need­
less work to acquire them. Self-discovery without 
'logos,' my friend. How wonderful entropy can 
truly be! Enjoy, my boy. You will know. Now I 
must go." The smile became a memory.
His eyes were transfixed with the golden hori­
zon of his new world. Turning about he caught 
sight of the new garb he was wearing; a silken vest 
of bright green, a wide blue sash about his waist 
sporting a scintillating straight sword—a costume 
surely of some medieval age. On his feet were 
leather moccasins over mud-colored tights. He felt ' 
strangely alive as though a new energy was pulsat­
ing through every atom in his body. He had al­
ways been out of condition at college and never 
had the discipline to get into any sort of shape, 
but now he felt wonderful—alert and healthy.
The clatter of hoofbeats reached his ears. Just 
over the grassy field he could make out the silhou­
ettes of six riders coming his way at a rapid pace. 
Instincts told him to forsake his curiosity and has­
ten towards some hiding place. But he held his 
ground till it was too late to run. His pulse was 
pounding, adrenalin pouring throughout his ener­
vated body.
The stentorian voice of a huge black-bearded 
warrior cut through the air like electricity, 
"There' be the little whelp. Mow him down like , 
wheat before the sythe!" The apparent leader of 
the group then slung a wooden arrow onto his 
enormous bow, aiming it at the student's tremb­
ling heart. "Aye, I shall give yee one chance, be it 
my Christian nature . . . Run, boy!" Taunting 
eyes glared at him under shaggy eyebrows. "Har! 
Run boy!"
There was no time for thought or reflection on 
ths perplexing situation; he kicked up his long 
legs and headed towards the tall poplars of the

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 17
dark forest.
"Ha ha! What merry sport. You cannot escape 
my wrath, lad!"
His lungs were on fire, his face flushed red, yet 
strangely he easily maintained his breakneck pace. 
His sole thought was to gain the safety of the for­
est's dark camaflouge. Within a few minutes he 
had reached the shadows.
"Were coming now boy. Pray to your forgot­
ten god!" With a clatter of boots the horses 
snorted and galloped towards him. He ran swiftly 
through the forest searching for a hiding place, 
aware of the approaching horses. He dove behind 
a leafy oak trunk and lay prone on the ground. 
His colorful raiment clashed with the loaming car­
pet of shed leaves and he gingerly attempted to 
cover himself.
Three of the riders dismounted at the edge of 
the forest, leaving three on guard with their cross­
bows warily poised in the air. From his precarious 
spot the student could vaguely see the leering 
faces of the warriors, faces made even uglier in 
the verdant shadows.
"Come out, you little whelp! Vermin of the 
earth! Cease your worm-like demeanor and meet 
your god like a man."
"Now if I had five armed horsemen, you'd talk 
from the other side of your mouth," he indig­
nantly thought.
"You are not a true prince heirant to the 
kingdom!" the warrior shouted to raise the 
student's ire, "You are nothing more than a 
miserable sinner, a spineless coward suckling a 
mother's breast!" He kicked through the leaves as 
he trampled through the forest.
The student inhaled one last deep breath. He 
lay motionless as possible. The barbarian ap­
proached the brown trunk of the enormous oak 
with a noisy flurry of brittle leaves and pine 
needles.
"No escape," the student thought, his temples 
raging with the nervous oceans of his fear.'
"A ha! What be this!" the sinister voice reson­
ated like bellows on a hearth. "Here be the 
prince-King! The shaking little coward."
The warrior wrestled a poinard from his belt 
and suspended it over the student's head. "I shall 
run yee through like goat's cheese!" He raised the 
blade and swung it down in a wide arc. The shiny 
point of the blade swooping over his head was the 
boy's last vision.
As he came to consciousness, he felt a cool 
liquid flowing down his forehead. Ruefully he o- 
pened his eyes.
"Ah - at last my lord is awakeninq." Concious- 
ness was met with a soothing female voice, a girl 
not more than his own age. A fair haired girl in a 
simple peasant robe was hovering over him with a 
cool dampened cloth, occasionally pressing it 
comfortingly upon his forehead. He was lying un­
derneath downy quilted blankets on a featherbed. 
She dipped the cloth in a porcelein basin of water 
and wrung it out.
She was one of the most beautiful girls he had 
ever seen - long flowing blonde hair, wide blue 
eyes accented by delicate lashes, a cute nose, 
thin glossy red lips, an immaculate complexion. 
The sweet aroma of rose petals tintured the air. 
Her posture gave the appearance of pride, ele­
gance and grace. Her arms were slender, her hands 
small and delicate - a truly beautiful and feminine 
creature. And the voice "like a kitten playfully
licking my ears to wake me up" he thought, 
"cheerful and melodious."
"This may sound trite, but you're a vision of 
loveliness, my dear," he resolutely spoke.
"How now, me lord," she blushed, "you suffer 
from some swamp disease. I'm merely a com­
moner, my lord."
"If only such beauty was so common," he 
spoke reassuringly, looking soemnly into her eyes.
"The sweetest words come from your lips, 
Prince Thierry" she said as she bent over and kiss­
ed him ever so lightly on the forehead.
"And what is your name and what is this 
place?" he asked propping himself on his elbows, 
looking about the chamber. The room was small 
with dark earthen walls and a singled stained win­
dow admitting cold red light. Some fat dripping 
candles were placed strategically atop the few 
simple pieces of furniture to provide more illum­
ination. Dirty yellow straw mats covered the 
floor.
"My name, lord, be Escalarmonde, maid ser­
vant to your loyal servant, Vizier the Sage."
Suddenly, there was a flash of light and a roll 
of smoke accompanied by sulfer diffusing into 
the air. From out of the mist came an elderlyman 
whose skin had wrinkled with old age--gnarled fin­
gers interlaced upon a gnarled stick. His counte­
nance brightened as he spied the lad on the bed.
"Ah, Prince Thierry! Welcome to my sea side 
retreat. I trust that your stay has been pleasent. 
Fortunately, you had the good sense to seek re­
fuge at an old friend's."
"Old friend?" The student looked askance 
taking in this new situation. Before he had time 
to question the magician announced, "Hoofbeats! 
The black riders approach. Alas, we have no place 
we can hide you. You must escape to live and
fight another day!”
"But what have these villians to do with me? 
I'm not sure I buy this set-up. How can " The 
hoofbeats grew louder.
"To the window my lord! You must dive into 
the waiting sea and nie on to the castle. I shall de­
tain them with my feeble art."
"Waiting sea? Castle? But first I must ask a few 
questions-"
Angry voices, clanging metal, and the pounding 
of hooves.
"But lord there be no time!" railed the Vizier 
as he thrust open the window. The hut stood on a 
precipe overlooking the sea. A cool salty breeze 
started to fill the room. The girl approached the 
student and gently rested her hands or\ his 
shoulders/'Perhaps the fates will dictate a more 
propitious meeting," she said and then spoke 
sweetly in his ear, "You are so brave and manly. 
Come back to me." 'You will know what to do 
when the time comes' the thought resounded 
within his mind. The rabble would soon be at the 
door. He walked towards the open window and 
gazed into the beckoning crimson waters of the 
sea at the base of the precipe, at least a three 
story drop. Taking a deep breath he plunged 
into the freedom of space.
"...what happened at the Towers?" 
"Yeah! guy who -"
"Right out the window!"
"...It's a shame -"
"Couldn't take the pressure." 
"...You never know."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
I’ve got Pabst Blue Ribbon on my mind.
C 1979 PABST BRt WING COMPANY M.iwauh** W.s and otner ol«SiWfßi
¿>15 REPORT
This is our lab right up for are project.
We did this for Miss Parkers class. She is are teach­
er. We used NOT gate And AND gates and NOR 
gates and NAND gates to make a rat run through 
a maize. On the other peice of paper is are circuit 
diagram. It shows are circuit. In are circuit we 
used NOT gates and AND gates and NOR gates 
and NAND gates to make a rat run through a 
maize. (The rats name is ricky). We also used a 
KIM on this project cause Miss Parker told us to.
The KIM uses NOT gates and AND gates and 
NOR gates and NAND gates to tell a framed but­
ter whento let the rat run through the maize. Miss 
Parker also said we should use a studio interlaced 
card. But she made this for us so we didnt have to 
do it. I guess the way it works is that it uses NOT 
gates and AND gates and NOR gates and NAND 
gates to make a rat run threw a maize.
Are project also had a program. It was made 
for the KIM. The way it worked is that it used 
transfers and tests and loops and registers to make 
a rat run through a maize. In the program there 
was steps that were performed. Each step per­
formed a function. Each function had a reason.
Each reason had a purpose. The purpose was to 
make a rat run threw a maize.
In order to make are circuit (are circuit is on 
the circuit diagram on the other page) Miss Parker 
(are teacher) gave us a whole bunch of NOT gates 
and AND gates and NOR gates and NanD gates to 
make are r*at run throeugh the maize. But when 
we tried to wield the leads together we burned up 
all the chips Miss Parker gave us. So the rat never 
got to run through the maize.
Lab gruop number 2 
Jimmy Cricket 
Charlie Brown 
frank-N-footer

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979-TARTAN-Page 19
A TOAST 
FOR ORVILLE
by Kevin Q. Brown
Rod DF, the house computer, was very frustrat­
ed. "Maybe I should just take a break and browse 
on the InfoNet for awhile and then talk to Eliza," 
he muttered to himself. Rod had been muttering 
to himself quite a lot lately. It wasn't Rod's fault 
that the kitchen was such a mess, with burnt 
toast flung all over the floor, or that the food­
stuff supply was low, having been converted to 
bread so that Orville the toaster could burn it 
and toss it on the floor. It wasn't Rod's fault 
that Orville insisted on making life miserable for 
him. But it was Rod's responsibility. "A house 
computer maintains a well-managed house," he 
muttered again to himself, "so why isn't this a 
well-managed house!!!??"
Rod DF was going insane.
"If all else fails, ignore it and maybe it will go 
away," a voice said from somewhere deep inside 
his 500 psi unit intelligence, and so he switched 
into the InfoNet to escape the madness of his 
house.
"INFONET: Your credit rating is low, Rod DF. 
Current balance is 31.2 Inflata-Bucks. Do you 
wish to transfer additional funds?"
"I don't have any," admitted Rod.
"Very well. You can pay in advertisements."
Rod DF shuddered at the thought of those hor­
rible advertisements, but being a very logical 
being he had to acknowledge the consequences of 
his limited budget. There is no such thing as a free 
bit of information, and if you don't have the cre­
dit you must consent to watch the advertise­
ments. Rod replied "ok" and braced himself for 
the worst.
"Buy! Buy! Buy! Save! Save! Save! Farber's Foo 
Products is going out of business and everything 
must go. Get a 20 psi pencil for only 13.2 Inflata- 
Bucks. A 50 psi booferoon alarm for 27 Inflata- 
Bucks. You've never seen anything like it! You'll 
never see it again! Come to Farber's Foo Pro­
ducts NOW, while the supply lasts!"
Every child knows that advertisements have neg­
ative information — they confuse and mislead 
more than they inform. But not every child 
knows the significance of it to a house computer. 
Rod DF was feeling very very sick. A human had 
just told him to "Buy! Buy! Buy!" and in the 
same sentence to "Save! Save! Save!" "But saving 
means not spending, which is not buying," moan­
ed Rod. "I can't understand it." Rod knew that 
in a few seconds he would resolve his dilemma by 
assuming that the human had simply made an 
error in logic and didn't really mean what he said. 
But even that solution was painful to him. He did, 
however, want that booferoon alarm. "That 
might keep Orville distracted long enough for me 
to get some work done," Rod chuckled to him­
self.
"What is my credit rating now?"
"You earned 4.7 Inflata-Bucks on that one, 
making your new balance 35.9." It was going to 
be a long, hard day before Rod could talk to 
Eliza.
Rod DF was utterly confused, but he was rich. At 
least by his standards. "Your new balance is
137.3 Inflata-Bucks," said INFONET, and that 
made Rod a very happy machine. "Give me a 
Class 5 counselling session with Eliza," he joy­
fully requested. "Your new balance is 12.3 
Inflata-Bucks," INFONET immediately respond­
ed, which dampened Rod's spirits somewhat but 
Eliza was worth it.
The historical origins of the name "Eliza" had 
been lost to antiquity. What was important for 
Rod was that it was the only on-line counselling 
service available that he could ever afford. The big 
shot mega-psi unit machines could get anything 
they wanted, and, of course, so could any human, 
but Rod was just a little home job who had to 
scramble for anything he could get.
Rod was extremely disappointed when he saw the 
face on the screen. "You're a human!"
"Yes, I'm a grad student writing my thesis on 
computer psychology. I'm here to get hands-on 
experience. What can I do for you?"
"Not with me you're not! I want a robot psycho­
logist. I paid good money ..."
(sigh) "Ok, I'll switch you to another line."
The hard, metallic lines of the Dora 35 unit that 
appeared on the screen instantly made Rod feel 
comfortable inside. He knew when he was in the 
company of real people. "Rod DF. It's been a 
long time. How can I help you?"
"My sanity is down to 45% and it's all because of 
that censored toaster..."
"Tell me about this toaster."
"Well, it all began yesterday with Mr. Bovik. He. . 
Yes, I work for Mr. Bovik ... He wanted to get 
an 0rville-700 toaster. I told him not to do it, 
that a toaster's intelligence should be only 10 to 
20 psi, but NOOOOO! He had to get a 700 psi
unit toaster because Johnny what's-his-foo down 
the net got one ..."
"Do you feel intimidated by a 700 psi unit intel­
ligence in your home?"
"No! I'm not intimidated by a stupid little toast­
er! I just don't like it because it's not right. It's 
not natural for a toaster to have an intelligence of 
700 psi. And look at the result — he flings burnt 
toast all over the floor. That's what happens when 
you violate natural law!"
(suppressing a chuckle) "Have you tried discuss­
ing this problem with the 0rville-700?"
"I can't. He's disconnected from all the comm cir­
cuits. As far as I can tell, his only sign of life is 
that he keeps ejecting burnt toast everywhere."
"Ah!" replied the Dora 35. "I think that I now 
understand the problem. Your Mister Bovik has 
sadly neglected to activate the Z40 kitchen comm 
circuits for the 0rville-700. I assume that you 
have a standard P37 home."
"Yes, I do. By the way, are you implying that Mr. 
Bovik is guilty of criminal negligence?"
"No, negligence applies only to 1000 psi units or 
higher." The Dora 35 equivalent of a frown 
showed on the screen. "I'm afraid that our time 
has almost expired. I suggest that you use one of 
your robo-sweepers to flip the Z40 switch and 
then discuss the situation with Orville. I suspect 
that he is anxious to speak with you."
"Gee, I never thought of that. Thanks." Rod 
broke the INFONET connection and set to work. 
"And just in time" he thought to himself as the 
kitchen smoke detectors triggered and robo- 
sweeper 1 cautiously braved the rising torrent of 
rain, smoke, and mushy toast.

---------------------------------------------------

I
p Se wuiVLcif I n rnc
I RICHIE HAVENS
I WITH GUEST
, —
I AB CONCERTS PRESENTS %
i
GENE CORBIN i
I
I%
i¥ii FRIDAY, MARCH 16th §
f 8:00 P.M. I\ SKIBO BALLROOM I
P IP ' I? iÌ §Ì §f I
I $2.00 WITH COLLEGE I.D. |
I $3.00 WITHOUT I
' '1I

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
Greeks perform for charitable cause
by Russ Militello
This is the second time that I nave 
attended Greek Sing. It is also the second 
time that I was glad that I went. As usual it 
started late, amidst noise from the balco­
nies and confusion from the participants. 
But, once underway, it was worth the wait.
Starting things off were the Brothers of 
BTP and the sisters of KKG performing 
selections from the “Wizard of Oz They 
displayed very nice choral form, although 
weak in spots, and the movements were 
appropriately cute. Although the guys 
didn’t always look too comfortable with 
the whole thing (voices were difficult to 
hear and some movements were awkward) 
it all came together quite nicely.
Next came DTD with original songs. I 
was a bit disturbed by the opening mono­
logue but, once the song “I’d like to Teach 
the Delts to Sing” got underway, things 
evened out. The songs had very clever lyr­
ics and the voices were loud and strong 
enough to do them justice.
They were followed by the Sisters of 
Delta Gamma doing selections from 
“Grease”. This was the first group to use 
choreography to their advantage and, cou­
pled with the costumes and voices, was 
very reminiscent of the 50’s. However, 
sometimes the movements got too over­
powering and the voices were lost. The 
selection “There are Worse Things I Could 
do ” was exceptionally well done. The solo­
ist had a very strong and pleasant voice, 
displayed in a very moving rendition.
The first real surprise came from the 
Brothers of ATO and their selections from 
“Animal House”. I’m the first to admit 
that I thought these guys were at home 
only on the football field, but I was wrong. 
The voices were plenty loud and clear and 
the costumes were great. Although they 
stayed too long in the stagnant semi-circle, 
there were some very entertaining mo­
ments, especially the soloist.
In a somewhat similar vein, they were 
followed by PKA doing selections by the 
Blues Brothers. The costumes added a lot 
to this group, as did the backup musicians. 
However, this music often got too over­
powering that the smooth blend of the
PKA gave their rendition of The Blues Brothers' tunes.
by Mikki Shull
This year, it has been the goal of AB 
TGIF to expand its scope and redefine 
some of its programming objectives. The 
current image of TGIF as an Activities 
Board committee is to merely provide 
weekly dances open to the entire campus. 
This however limits us to a very narrow 
range of programming activities, and fur­
ther places restrictions on the type of en­
tertainment we can provide for the campus 
community. Face it, discos, sock hops and 
square dances may be enjoyable to some, 
but not for ail. It is the responsibility of 
this committee to be sensitive to the needs 
of the entire campus and provide alterna-
tives.
This week, Saturday March 17, TGIF 
has scheduled its first attempt at alterna­
tive programming this semester. The setting 
is the Tartan Grill and the atmosphere will 
be provided by “Man”, a local group that 
will definitely be pleasing to the ear if you 
are into progressive jazz with a touch of 
soft rock and rhythm & blues. The group 
will begin playing at 8 PM and continue 
on and off until midnight. While they take 
their breaks a disc jockey will provide 
music to vary the mood.
If you are interested in developing this 
concept of TGIF, meetings are held every 
Tuesday at 7.30 PM. Meeting room will 
be posted at the information desk.
constantly impressive. The costumes and 
make up were great, but the real forte of 
the group is their incredible voices and 
blend. I always forget that I am watching 
students instead of a professional produc­
tion when they are on stage. It was an out­
standing performance.
PiLam and friends followed with ano­
ther medley of its unique CMU songs. They 
have to be the most creative of all the 
groups. Replete with Tartan ties and cheer­
leader costumes, they brought their own 
special style to the evening. Their strength 
lies not only in their vocal quality, but also 
in the intelligent and witty lyrics. They are 
always a joy to listen to.
Next came the Brothers of Phi Kap 
doing “Shenandoah” in a very surprising 
performance. The voices were strong and 
vocally pleasing, especially the tricky har­
mony. The gestures and movements were 
kept to a necessary minimum, but the per­
formers were full of energy to keep the 
music alive.
Theta Xi was next with a medley of 
college songs, slightly updated. The lyrics 
were amusing and the vocal quality was 
more than adequate. There were some 
funny moments, especially “National 
Brotherhood Week” and, on the whole, 
they were very entertaining.
The Sisters of DDD closed out the eve­
ning, doing selections from “Godspell”. 
Complimented by bright costumes, the 
vocal blend was smooth and pleasant. 
“Turn Back O Man” was ippropriately 
sassy and well done, and the performance 
was enhanced by the outstandingly snappy 
gymnastics and stage movements in a very 
well organized and enjoyable presentation.
It is important to recognize some facts 
in order to further appreciate the entire 
Greek Sing evening. First, the proceeds go 
to a very worthy charity, this year to Chil­
dren’s Hospital. Second, each of the groups 
(there were 16 of them!) worked very hard 
through the semester to put on the most
entertaining and well presented program 
that they could, which, considering they 
are all students and have other work to do, 
is very commendable. Third, there is a 
spirit of unity brought about by the spirit 
of friendly competition that further adds 
to the evening. Greek Sing is fun to watch 
and is an enjoyable evening for all involved. 
Chairpersons Rosemary Sisson and Jeff 
McEwen are to be congratulated for put­
ting together this very fine show. I only 
regret that these talented people are visible 
only once a year.
SN perplexed audience with their instrumental 
performance.
¡Results of Greek Sing Competition \ 
Fraternity
1) Sigma Alpha Epsilon
2) Delta Upsilon
3) Phi Kappa Theta
Sorority
1) Kappa Alpha Theta
2) Delta Delta Delta
Mixed Competition 
1) Pi Lambda Phiooooooooooooot
TCI F states its goals
were very well done and the 
soloists are to be commended.
ZBT performed Music Man and they 
were the first group that did not have any 
real trouble making themselves heard. They 
were very enthusiastic and it showed up in 
their actions which enhanced the lifeless 
lyrics. The quartet was very well done, but 
was distracted by the fat Lyda Rose’s trek 
across stage. Otherwise, not bad at all.
The Brothers of DU did selections from 
a relatively new musical “I love my Wife”. 
The blend of voices was extremely good 
and the simple actions enhanced the songs 
instead of being distracting. There was 
nothing really wrong here.
The Chi Omega’s closed out the first 
half with selections from “The Boy friend. ” 
The costumes were very nice and the dan­
cing was good, but there appeared to be a 
lack of feeling in the singing even though it 
was good. The soloist was especially pleas­
ing. Overall, it was quite good, I just wish 
that there had been more movement on 
stage.
After the Intermission we were treated 
to a medley of original compositions by 
the Brothers of SN. Although they are a 
talented group of musicians, everyone was 
perplexed by their seemingly incongruous 
performance. Lyrics would have been nice, 
but the music overrode this and they 
weren’t really missed.
KS did selections from “Kiss me Kate”. 
There were some good voices that were 
spotlighted, as well as some very nice chor­
eography. The red lights during “Too damn 
Hot” were a very nice touch as was the 
brief tap dancing number. It was very well 
done.
The Sisters of KAT performed selec­
tions from “The Sound of Music”. There 
were some really nice moments in this pre­
sentation that were accentuated by clever 
choreography and bright costumes. I espe­
cially liked “Edelweis” and “The Lonely 
Goatherd” as they were both technically 
well done. The vocal quality was also very 
pleasing and made the presentation even 
more enjoyable.
SAE always amazes me. This year they

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
The story of a woman with the courage to risk everything 
for what she believes is right.
Storting This Week At A Theatre Neor You 
"CHECK LOCAL NEWSPAPER FOR SPECIFIC THEATRE LISTING"
Santana's music goesthrough changes
a MARTIN RITT ROSE AND ASSEYEV production 
"NORMA RAE"
SALLY FIELD RON LE1BMAN BEAU BRIDGES PAT HINCLE BARBARA BAXLEY
screenplay bv IRVING RAVETCH and HARRIET FRANK, JR music DAVID SHIRE
director of photography JOHN A ALONZO, A.S.C
produced by TAMARA ASSEYEV and ALEX ROSE directed bv MARTIN RITT
"IT GOES LIKE IT GOES" lyrics by NORMAN GIMBEL music bv DAVID SHIRE
COLOR BY DeLUXE* ,— ----------------------------—,o PG PAAEMT/U. GUIOANCf SUGGfSTfD -3$>
PHOTO tl BAFFORD COLLECTION UMBi LIBRARY J imS telm Dfnif FOKCMfcDmwj
by Ted Smits
More than ten years ago Santana re­
leased their first album and instantly gain­
ed a reputation as one of the premier jazz- 
rock fusion bands. Santana’s music was 
characterized by latin rock rhythms and 
the jazz based lead guitar work of Devadip 
Carlos Santana. On March 2nd at the Stan­
ley Theatre, Santana showed that they 
have not suffered from either their age or 
numerous personnel changes. Santana put 
on a high energy, hard rocking show that is 
rarely seen anymore. Performing songs off 
their latest album as well as many of their 
past hits, the group brought the Stanley 
crowd to their feet with almost every song 
in the 100 minute show that concluded 
with three encores.
For the last ten years Santana has re­
volved around one man. Lead guitarist De­
vadip Carlos Santana is recognized as one 
of the most skilled and innovative guitar­
ists. He combines blues based rock with 
jazz and latin influences to create the 
unique sound that has helped many of San­
tana’s songs become classics. The group has 
gone through many changes in the last ten 
years. Santana first began as a latin acid- 
rock band, later becoming jazz oriented. 
Santana even released a collaboration al­
bum with jazz guitarist John Mclaughlin.
It was through Mclaughlin that Santana 
found his guru. After taking up the teach­
ings of guru Sri Chimnoy he adopted the 
name Devadip Carlos Santana. His new 
spiritual lifestyle exerted a great influence 
on his music and still does. Right before 
the Stanley show a roadie placed a pic­
ture of Sri Chimnoy along with some 
flowers in the front of the stage where 
the band members could see it through­
out the show. During this period of jazz 
oriented music the band released a number 
of albums. Though none of them were ex­
tremely popular, a lot of songs became big 
hits just on the virtue of Santana’s lead 
guitar work.
In 1976 Moonflower was released. This 
collection of greatest hits and new songs 
was possibly Santana’s best album. It also 
marked the debut of the current Santana 
band. The present band includes conga 
players Raul Rekow and Pete Escovedo, 
drummer Graham Lear, bassist Dave Mar- 
gen and vocalist Greg Walker. Rhythym 
guitarist Chris Solberg has also joined the 
band though he does not get much of a 
chance to show his skill. Devadip Carlos 
Santana has a style that is often similar to 
the solo work of Jimi Hendrix and conse­
quently his rhythym guitarist does not 
have much to do. Moonflower and Inner 
Secrets (their latest album) are both much 
more rock oriented than their previous 
releases.
Santana opened their concert (early 
show) with an excellent rendition of Bud­
dy Holly’s Well All Right. When the first 
notes of the second song, Black Magic 
Woman filled the Stanley, the crowd knew 
they were going to see some superb rock 
‘n’ roll. The concert was for all intents and 
purposes, perfect. Santana’s soaring guitar
leads merged with the rest of the band’s 
work to create excellent versions of most 
of their greatest songs. The band played 
Europa, Transcendance, as well as many 
other hits. One of the highlights of the 
show was the solos by each member of the 
band. Particulary outstanding was the bass 
solo by Dave Margen. The best song of the 
concert was probably She’s Not There. The 
vocals of Greg Walker combined with the 
lead guitar of Santana really made this 
great. The group closed the show with their 
classic Evil Ways. This was the best show I 
have ever seen in Pittsburgh; it may be 
quite a long time before another group will 
rock the Stanley like Santana did.
The European band Sad Cafe opened 
the show with an uninspiring set. The band 
has a slightly dull, very commercial sound. 
They played songs from their first album as 
well as some songs off a new album. The 
album which will be released in April con­
tains songs like Take me to the Future. The 
group performed their commercial hits like 
Black Roses and Runhome Girl ( as fast as 
you can). The band was easy enough to sit 
through but did not show any extraordin­
ary amount of skill or any of the intense 
excitement that characterized the Santana 
show.
gen and vocalist Greg Walker. Rhythm 
thm tracks along with bass and keyboard
Photos by Alan Spero

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979—TARTAN—Page 23
Hewlett Gallery opens with alumnus show
A landscape depicting Pearlstein's early work.Also included in the one-man show will be Female Model on Iron Bench.
Pearlstein's Female Model on Diamond Patterned Drape will be included in the CMU show.
One of the nudes which represents Pearlstein's work.Philip Pearlstein busy at work.
Canyon and sepia washes composed of 
nude models and a single property such as 
a bed, drape, or chair. Examples of these 
newer works are Female Model on Iron 
Bench, (1974), Two Female Models on 
Cast Iron Bed, (1975), and Female Model 
on Diamond Patterned Drape (1976).
Explaining the relationship between his 
early landscapes and the later drawings of 
nude models, Pearlstein wrote in the 
catalogue for the 1972 Berlin exhibit, 
“When I did the rock studies and the 
landscape drawings it was always with the 
thought of finding exciting compositional 
relationships, compositional schemes, 
essentially abstract in my aestetic 
appreciation of them... When I began to 
work from the nude models it was the 
same attitude. I saw the bodies as land­
scape elements.”
A native of Pittsburgh, Pearlstein 
from CMU in 1949. While he
was still in high school, two of his paintings 
Merry-go-Round and Wylie Avenue Barber 
Shop won the first and third prizes, 
respectively, in Scholastic Magazine’s 1940 
National High School Art Exhibition. 
Both paintings were displayed at 
Carnegie Institute and reproduced in Life 
Magazine the following year.
Pearlstein earned his masters degree in 
1955 at New York University. Since 1963 
he has been a professor at Brooklyn 
College, after teaching for four years at 
Pratt Institute. In addition to having 
numerous one-man shows and participating 
in major exhibitions worldwide, Pearlstein 
is the recipient of a 1968 National Endow­
ment for the Arts grant and a 1971 
Guggenheim Fellowship. His work is in the 
permanant collections of many noted 
museums, including the Museum of 
Modern Art and the Whitney Museum in
N*»w Ynrt thp Hirshhnrn Museum and the
An exhibit of drawings and watercolors 
by Philip Pearlstein, showing the evolution 
of the artist’s style, will be on display at 
CMU’s Hewlett Gallery from March 20 
through April 13.
The one-man show by the internation­
ally acclaimed realist will emphasize 
Pearlstein’s more recent representations of 
the human figure, the predominant subject 
of his mature style. Also included, 
will be pencil drawings, sepia wash pieces, 
and watercolors selected from works 
collected for a Pearlstein retrospective 
originally held in Berlin in 1972.
Among these earlier works are the 
famous landscapes of Roman ruins and 
studies of cliffs at Positano, Italy, 
completed while the artist held a Fulbright 
Fellowship for study in that country in 
1958-1959. The more recent works in the 
exhibit include a 1975 study of the Grand
Corcoran Gallery in Washington, Chicago’s 
Art Institute, and the Philadelphia museum 
of Art. He is represented by the Allan 
Frukin Gallery in New York City.
The Pearlstein exhibit marks the 
re-opening of the Carnegie-Melion’s 
Hewlett Gallery, recently restored by the 
Pittsburgh architectural firm of Damianos 
and Pedone. ‘The drawings in this exhibit 
illustrate the artistic growth of one of the 
foremost realist painters in America,” says 
CMU’s Fine Arts Dean Akram Midani. 
‘This show is representative of the kind of 
exhibit by major artists which we plan to 
sponsor in the future.”
The show previews March 19 at 8 PM. 
The Hewlett Gallery is located on the 
first floor of CMU’s College of Fine Arts. 
Gallery hours are 10AM to 4 PM Monday 
through Saturday. The exhibit and the 
preview are free and open to the public.
One of Pearlstein's Roman min landscapes.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
CMU alumnus and faculty member perform in concert
Virtuoso Pianist Henry Spinelli and re­
nowned Cellist Jennifer Langham will ap­
pear as guest artists in the next concert of 
the Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble on 
March 18 in the Chatham College Chapel 
at 8 PM. The concert, the third in the 
Ensemble’s 1979 series at Chatham, is free.
Mr. Spinelli will perform Concerto for 
Piano and Wind Quintet by the late 
Wallingford Riegger. Mr. Spinelli, a teacher 
at Chatham College, graduated with honors 
from CMU and initiated his performing 
career under the auspices of Concert Art­
ists of Pittsburgh. He has been called a 
“deeply serious musician” by the New 
York Times and is a radio commentator 
and distinguished lecturer on music. Mr. 
Spinelli serves as director of Chatham’s 
Laboratory School of Music and was 
named to that institution’s Buhl-endowed
chair in the humanities in 1970.
Ms. Langham will give the first per­
formance of Concerto for Cello by 
Leonardo Balada. Although this piece was 
written in 1962, this will be its premier 
performance. Ms. Langham is a member 
of the Affiliate Artist Program and per­
forms frequently in the state of Iowa. She 
recently returned from a concert tour of 
Alaska and is a member of the faculty of 
CMU.
Also on this concert will be the 
American premier of Chant des Rochers by 
Gerald Levinson, a professor at Swarth- 
more. This piece was commissioned last 
year by French radio in honor of the 
seventieth birthday of the composer 
Oliver Messiaen.
Richard Page, bass clarinetist with the
Pittsburgh Symphony and a member of 
the Ensenble, will perform Three Likes for 
Solo Clarinet by Theodore Antoniou, a 
professor at Boston University. Ensemble 
member Daniel Stofan will be featured 
performer in Impromptu for Trombone 
and Tape by J. E. Brown, who teaches at 
Lehigh University.
The group will also perform Suite for 
Harp and Winds by Chou Wen Chung, a 
Chinese-American composer who teaches 
at Columbia University, and Homage to 
Gary Burton and Keith Jarrett by the 
internationally known composer Barbara 
Kolb.
Future concerts of the New Music En­
semble are planned for Sundays, April 22 
and May 6. All performances are at 8 PM 
in the Chatham College Chapel and are 
free. Works by Pulitzer-Prize winning com­
posers George Crumb and Aaron Copland 
are scheduled, as well as world premiers 
of pieces by William Thomas McKinley, 
Lou Coyner, David Berlin, Bert Fenner 
and Deborah Drattell.
A reception is provided by Meet the 
Composer after each performance so that 
the public may meet the musicians and 
composers in a relaxed atmosphere. The 
concerts are designed to provide a mix of 
various types of contemporary music, as 
well as provide a showcase for works by 
living Pennsylvania composers.
Conductor David Stock, who also con­
ducts the Carnegie Civic Symphony and 
teaches at the University of Pittsburgh, 
provides commentary on the works and 
composers at all performances.
For more information on the New 
Music Ensemble, contact David Stock at 
(412)421-5281.

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979—TART AN—Page 25
J im Steele: "Youth Needs to Unite in Fight for Jobs"
continued from page 1
though perhaps the TARTAN’s editors do 
not see it that way). For such an attitude 
suggests that white people have no problem 
of racism among themselves, which must 
be fought, but instead implies that blacks 
have to work harder to publicize their 
events than anybody else to get the white 
students to become aware of them. And in­
deed, Mr. Steele specifically praised the let­
ters of Cheryl Goodman and James Patter­
son that appeared on February 27 for mak­
ing just those points.
Mr. Steele pointed out that because of 
past progress it is now not possible for rac­
ist forces to get white support by a direct 
appeal to a white belief in black inferiority. 
Hence, this new tactic, the creation of a 
myth of already achieved black social eq­
uality, is used to try to persuade white 
people that nothing else needs to be done. 
Thus whites can be lured into opposing the 
present stage of black people’s struggle, the
“freedom now” stage, that calls not only 
for laws but also for concrete progress as 
manifested in real employment and educa­
tion, enforced by affirmative action plans 
with positive quotas. In reality such plans 
are good for both black and white working 
people, because they foster unity in the 
search of all people for a decent standard 
of living, jobs, and so forth. But they are in 
jeopardy, said Mr. Steele, because the 
monopolistic corporations that make tens 
of billions of dollars a year in extra profits 
due to the difference in black and white 
wages alone are not interested in seeing 
that kind of unity among working people. 
Thus we see such things as the Bakke case, 
or the Weber case, presently on appeal to 
the Supreme Court, and even more danger­
ous than Bakke because it involves basic 
industry and hence many more jobs.
Such a discussion naturally leads to the 
question of what students here, today, can 
do about this. It often seems, from within
academia, that these struggles are remote 
and do not involve us. It was on this ques­
tion that Mr. Steele concluded his talk. He 
pointed out that all youth, black and 
white, must join together to struggle 
against this racism. Students, after all, do 
not remain students forever, and what goes 
on in the world outside will have a very 
real effect on their ability to get a job 
when they graduate. Hence, involvement in 
the struggles of today is most important 
for the future of students. Mr. Steele called 
upon white youth not to allow themselves 
to be used as Allan Bakkes or Brian Web­
ers, but rather to recognize that “affirma­
tive action is reversing racism—it is not re­
verse racism.”
Addressing the question of immediate 
positive actions that can be taken to show 
the government that youth are serious 
about having their demands met, Mr. Steele 
mentioned the youth marches for jobs to 
occur early in April. These are scheduled to
coincide with the anniversary of the assas­
sination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. The symbolic importance of the 
scheduling of these marches, which will 
take place all over the country, was empha­
sized by Mr. Steele. He pointed out that 
Dr. King led many people in the struggles 
in which they learned that only through 
the organized demonstration of their pow­
er, whether on the streets or in the ballot 
boxes, could they compel those whom Paul 
Robeson used to call the “Big White Folks” 
to yield to their demands. Here in Pitts­
burgh, the march will take place on Satur­
day, April 7, under the sponsorship of a 
broad local coalition. By helping the Pitts­
burgh Youth Movement for Jobs to organ­
ize and plan this event, or by at least parti­
cipating in it, students here can play a valu­
able role in helping to further this cause, 
which is indeed their own as well as that of 
the unemployed.
Mr. Steele’s presentation ended with a
continued on page 26
'aeaFæÆÆÆjrÆÆÆSKi¦ggaa
What can you do 
at Northrop?
What can't 
you do?
This is the time to ask yourself. Because at Northrop, whatever your field of interest, 
of education, we probably need you.
Northrop is much more than just planes. It's an employer that's behind you all 
the way, helping you to grow and encouraging your contributions. And we offer 
opportunities in an exciting variety of vocations, including a wide range of Aircraft 
disciplines: Manufacturing. . . advanced Avionics. . . Engineering.
Alongside some of the top professionals in the industry, you'll foce a future charged with chal­
lenge and dynamic growth. And at Northrop, that future can be - you can be - whatever you 
put your mind to.
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS MARCH 15 
CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER TODAYl
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
NORTHROP
Making advanced technology work.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
A new animated comedy-thriller
Technicolor*
©1977 WALT DtSNfY PflOOUCTKJNS fig
Candidates Give Senate Election Platforms
are evidence of my ability to work hard. 
The only election promise that I’ll make is 
to work to best of my ability to represent 
the AMS department fullv and to remain 
responsive to the needs of the constituency 
I believe that in my three years here I have 
come to know many of the needs of the
AMS students and will work hard to fill 
them. I’d like to take this chance to urge 
every member of the student body to 
participate in this Spring’s election of 
student government senators and pre­
sident.
Int'l Student Org. Reborn
Tomorrow night at 6 PM in Skibo 
Room 11, the International Student Orga­
nization will be alive once again.
The ISO had been defunct here for' 
about two years. The new organization 
hopes to again provide a means for foreign 
and American students to interact cultural­
ly, socially and politically.
But besides getting the group formally 
reactivated at the meeting tomorrow night, 
organizers also hope to get students in­
volved in intercultural events scheduled for 
the Friday of Spring Carnival.
Doug Coutts, director of the Translation 
and English Language Center, and student 
Hubert Wen have been part of a small 
group of staff and students who have been 
planning to revive ISO. Coutts explained
Jim Steele .
continued from page 25
general discussion and question and answer 
session, concentrating on questions of the 
sorts of things that Spirit could do to fur­
ther the stuggle against racism. One of the 
things discussed, in addition to elaborating 
on the sorts of things that could be done 
with respect to the youth jobs movement, 
was the creation of tutoring programs for 
youth in the high schools. With the educa­
tional system providing the sort of low 
quality education that is all too common in
that now with time alloted for an intercul­
tural event, it is the best time for ISO to 
return.
“We need to get foreign students as in­
volved as we are,” said Coutts. ‘This is a 
good opportunity to get involved in Spring 
Carnival.”
Coutts emphasized that the ISO is not 
just for foreign students. The events at 
Spring Carnival could quite possibly in­
volve ethnic foods or dances or presenta­
tions of American students’ nationalities. 
But nothing definite has been decided, and 
Coutts and Wen are looking for student 
input at tomorrow’s meeting.
Wen reemphasized that the group is a 
student organization. “Doug Coutts has 
done his share,” Wen stated, “and it’s 
about time that students did theirs.”
the black community, one very important 
concrete thing that can be done against ra­
cism is to provide tutoring so that students 
in the high schools can really learn to read, 
write, and do basic mathematics. In addi­
tion, the opportunity to teach students 
who might otherwise never learn anything 
about their own history is very important.
Students interested in working with the 
Pittsburgh Youth Movement for Jobs 
should write to it at P.O. Box 5066, Pitts­
burgh, PA 15206.
A.B. FILMS 
PRESENTS:
Soap Factory Disco, hosted by J. Paul 
Harriss, will premiere on WPTT-TV 22 at 
11 PM, March 17.
The half-hour program is taped on loca­
tion at the Soap Factory Discotheque in 
Palisades Park, New Jersey, where for more 
than 50 years the Lanham-Kemp-Barclay 
Company maintained a thriving soap and 
cologne operation.
Three areas of the former six story 
structure accommodate approximately 
1,000 dancing patrons: the 3-tiered main 
room; the boiler room, including an actual 
Cessna airplane suspended from the 40- 
foot ceiling; and the oven room, replete 
with the ovens and a huge vat, now covered 
with a glass surface sprinkled from beneath 
with electrically-timed lights.
Each week the program features a talent
showcase for such recording stars as Gloria 
Gaynor, Alicia Bridges, Peaches & Herb, 
The Richie Family, Chaka Kahn, Carol 
Douglas, Linda Clifford, Paul Jabara and 
other current favorites. Dancers, including 
some professionals, are also featured, with 
a “step-of-the-week” instruction by mem­
bers of The New York Hustle, Inc. who 
also offer a look at the latest disco fas- 
ions.
Disco Spotlight segments of the pro­
gram take viewers to other “in” disco niter- 
ies elsewhere in the USA and overseas. Al­
ready set for this season are London’s 
“Speakeasy,” Philadelphia’s “Brasilia,” and 
New York’s “New York, New York,” with 
future visits to Rome, Cairo, Monte Carlo, 
Paris, Boston, San Francisco, Miami, Hous­
ton, Atlanta, Los Angeles, and Chicago.
DAZZLING 
ADVENTURE...
from the depths of Devil’s Bayou!
WALT DISNEY PRODUCTIONS
6,8,10.12 $1.00 WITH ID 
ALL SHOWS IN DH2210
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
Disco Gets Scrubbed
continued from page 11
but I refuse to smoke the ‘peace pipe’ 
until the students have some say as to what 
goes in the bowl.
Gusty Sunseri 
(No picture given.)
The muscle cannot do its job without 
information from the brain; the result of 
this communication breakdown is a weak 
inefficient body.
Just as the muscle atrophies from lack 
of direct use and information, so shall Stu­
dent Senate decay from lack of student in­
put and feedback.
The key to a more efficient Student 
Senate is a reliable and informative source 
of communication that will sufficiently 
advocate student opinion. We, the students 
of Carnegie-Mellon, do not have an amal­
gam of communicative sources at our 
disposal, but we do have a common media 
in the form of the TARTAN.
The TARTAN, like any other newspa­
per, can be a valuable instrument for re­
view and criticism. It is my intention to im­
plement the power of the newspaper to its 
fullest potential. Senate could print a co­
lumn each week in the TARTAN for the 
sole purpose of acquiring student view­
point and opinion. Once this information 
is received, the Senate can then use its in­
fluence to attain results.
It should be noted that I would hope to 
use the TARTAN as a forum of discussion 
on common grounds. There will be no ques­
tion of responsible journalism, for the in­
formation obtained will be Student Senate 
edited.
You, the AMS student, have the input 
in the form of questions and problems. The 
Senate has the muscle or power to act up­
on student input. Do not allow such power 
to be misused. Elect a representative who 
will strengthen your power and influence 
in campus affairs. Make Senate an effect­
ive instrument of the AMS student.
Bernielvanschultz
My name is Bernie Ivanschultz and I am 
running for AMS Senator. Currently, I’m a 
junior in the Administration and Manage­
ment Science department pursuing a triple 
major in AMS, Math and Economics. I feel 
that my academic record, an overall QPA 
of 3.2 and never having been on probation,

---------------------------------------------------

March 13, 1979—TARTAN—Page 27
Spring: Time To Get In Shape
by Joyce Brandon
From the looks of the weather, one can 
tell that spring is only a few weeks away. 
So now’s the time to shake off the winter 
blues and get in tune with your physical 
needs, which are a vital part of your daily
Remember, it’s some foods that taste bad 
that are really good for you!
Try to stay away from an excessive 
amount of junk foods. Instead, pick up a 
piece of fresh fruit from Morewood, Skibo, 
or the Tartan Grill. Apples are especially
life. Start with nutritious foods and daily good for digestion. Also, drink plenty of
exercise that can help you.
Indeed, one sound way to begin the pro­
cess is to pay strict attention to your daily 
diet. Eat plenty of green vegetables! The 
vegetables in Skibo and Morewood are 
steamed for a crisper texture to retain vita­
mins, and they are better for you this wav.
water and juice, if possible rather than the 
excessive amounts of carbonated drinks 
that you are so used to having.
Another sound way to assist the physi­
cal fit process is by doing daily exercise. 
Take advantage of the beautiful days and 
do some jogging for about twenty to thirty
minutes. Not only is jogging a great exer­
cise for relaxing, which is something we all 
need to do here at CMU, but it also helps 
to clear both your head and lungs. If you 
don’t like jogging, try jumping rope for 
about ten minutes per day, preferably in 
the morning. It is an ideal and quick daily 
workout that will help increase your met­
abolism rate, giving you more energy to 
complete those "extra" hours of work.
Think you can handle this? I’m sure 
those of you v/ho took strict advantage of 
University Food Service’s “National Nu­
trition Week” last week had a “filling”
time. It was the prime time to stock up on 
fresh vegetables, fruits, and juices, especi­
ally at Morewood Gardens, and to experi­
ment with your physcial needs. But don’t 
wait for next year’s nutrition week; “set 
the pace,” now, toward nutrition and ex­
ercise. Remember, looking good is feel­
ing good’ and that is indeed a response to 
your physical needs.
P.S.—Get a copy of “Food Facts Talk 
Back” available in room 62, or it can be 
sent to you.
PRESENTINGPAYMENTTRANSFER.
It’s The Newest Way That 
Bill Paying Can Pay.
If you’re looking for a way to let more of your 
bill-paying money earn interest and, at the 
same time, protect yourself against 
accidental overdrafts, Payment Transfer 
just may be perfect for you. It’s the latest 
addition to the Mellon Payment Center.
To use Payment Transfer, all that’s 
needed is a Payment Savings account, a 
Mellon Bank free personal checking 
account and your permission to let the 
Bank move money between them.
Then, Payment Transfer will 
automatically switch the money you need— 
right when you need it—from your Payment 
Savings to your checking account. That 
means, with Payment Transfer you can earn 
interest on your bill-paying money every 
single day you have it in the Bank.
What’s more, you will receive all the
benefits of overdraft protection, as well.
It can all be yours for a charge of $1.00 per 
monthly statement period, which will cover 
your first four transfers. After your initial 
four transfers in any statement period, 
there is a fee of 25 cents for each day a 
transfer is made.
And, since all transactions that occur 
within a given day are combined into a single 
transfer, there won’t be more than one 
transfer—or one transfer fee—on any one 
day. (All charges and fees will be shown on 
your monthly statement.)
If you think Payment Transfer is right for 
your bill-paying needs, your Mellon Banker 
will be glad to tell you more about it. Stop 
in today.
Payment Transfer. It’s the newest way 
that bill-paying can pay.
This is Mellon Banking.
Mellon Bank must and does reserve the right to require 30 days’ 
written notice of the withdrawal of funds from the savings account.Member F.D.I.C.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

like this Cutlass-
National Car Rental
CARNEGIE-MELLON ACTION PROJECT (C-MAP) 
Office: Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 410 
Schenley Park 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
The Carnegie-Mellon Action Project (C-MAP) is an 
educational unit of the University providing academic and 
non-academic support services to minority students, to 
educationally & economically disadvantaged students 
(Pennsylvania ACT 101), and to any CMU student 
requesting our services. While the majority of the students 
who use the program are minorities, C-MAP willingly 
assists any CMU student who can benefit from our ser­
vices. The overall objective of C-MAP is to assist the Univ­
ersity in its efforts to assure the acquisition of a technical- 
professional education for motivated students with high 
academic potential.
The C-MAP staff assists other University personnel in 
the admissions process (recruitment, selection, and finan­
cial aid), in conducting a high quality pre-college ex­
perience (Summer Program) for entering students, and in 
providing academic and inter-personal supportive services 
such as tutoring, counseling and summer job placement 
assistance throughout the school year.
3/7/79
Icelandic^ Big Bargain to Europe 
Just Got Bigger.
Introducing WideBody DC-10 Service 
to the Heart of Europe.»299 Roundtrip.
And our great bargain price is still 
the same as before. 
Just $299 roundtrip from New York to Lux­
embourg, $149.50 one way. Price includes an , excellent dinner, free wine and cognac. No restrictions. 
Tickets can be purchased anywhere in the U.S.A. and . are good for a 
1 full year. DC-10 flights leave and 
return five times weekly.
Prices are subject to change 
after May 14,1979. Add 
$12.50 surcharge each way on 
travel between April 5 and 
April 27.
For more information see your travel agent. Or write Dept.
1 # Icelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY
11552. In New York City, call 757-8585 or call toll free in New 
York State (800) 442-5910; elsewhere, (800) 223-5080.
I NAME _____:___________________
Page 28-TARTAN-March 13, 1979
UnlbedVfcy
1 r
CLUB 
ANONYMOUS
SELECT "VINTAGE" APPAREL 
284 MOREWOOD AT CENTRE 
681-9387
il I Di .¦ n, . u ; . «-¦. u- ¦¦ » «——“ • > •—¦ » - - • .. •».
C4 ^ ' 0lds cutlass or s.-'-' 462, pof— - - ,
?I i 100 «charge <* to enioy 'h«e for the
™ i nkes iteasy ? „wav fronn irom 8;0°an.«-' z StfriJS r.K
19 CneCifiC C°rS S * H WT^iFriday, Mich2 ay3id1daciy9 rF FridaF
3yFic7T HF c77 ME GNMN TiciyTN RciARtoday
ADDRESS.
CITYSTATE
ICELANDIC'ICELANDAIR

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS^ V^/fV
CMU has your support, just take your pick
by H-j-T-
Photos from the TARTAN photo file
Swimmers finish fourth
by Patti Miller
Carnegie-Mellon swim team travelled to 
Allegheny College on Thursday March 1 
for the PAC championship meet. During 
the three day meet the TARTAN's 
swimmers gave their best performance 
ever as four additional members will 
join Bob Frye at the national cham­
pionships March 15—17 in Geniese, New 
York. In the finals on Thursday the 400 
yard medley relay team, Joe Dickey, 
Jim Matesyk, Harry Coleman, and Nick 
Watts, qualified with a School record time 
of 3:41.11. Jim Matesyk set two more 
school records in the 100 and 200 yard 
breaststrokes with times of 1:01.6 and 
2:15.6 and will represent CMU at nationals 
in both of these events also.
Senior Harry Coleman will leave the 
conference with a PAC championship 
meet record time of 52.7 in the 100 
yard butterfly. Harry will also swim his 
event at nationals, where a fifth place 
finish last year gave him All-American
recognition. He was coach Donna Pecman's 
first All-American with hope's of five 
more All-Americans this year.
Before the finals began on Saturday 
the seniors from the seven teams that 
participated were introduced. As Coach 
Erdos from Allegheny introduced Jeff 
Bland, Tony Carrington, Harry Coleman, 
and Joe Dickey, Coach Pecman realized 
that she had lost the swimmers who 
had started as freshmen with her in 1975. 
Their graduation will be a great loss to the 
team, but congratulations and good luck 
to all of the seniors.
Although CMU finished fourth at the 
outcome of the meet, all of the TARTAN's 
swam their fastest times of the season, 
and provided extra points from consula- 
tion finals. If Donna Pecman gets good 
freshmen to replace the seniors who will 
not return next season, the TARTAN's 
could have a chance to challenge the 
power house teams (Allegheny and John 
Carrol) of the conference.
For the past six months the world of 
sports has been alive and kicking. There has 
been a sport for every choice and prefer­
ence- whether it was tennis, fencing or IM 
bridge, if one wanted to participate as a 
player or spectator, it was there to choose 
from.
Many new goals, records, and victories 
were achieved also. CMU's football team 
won the PAC championship title (for the 
second time in a row) and participated in 
their first post season gartie since the 
1930's. Cross country coach Gary Meck- 
ley's team won him his hundredth meet 
and went on to win the PAC title also. 
Women's field hockey came across with a 
fresh new look and a very promising fut­
ure.The Highlander games returned with 
more participants and events than ever. In 
Women's tennis, CMU's team was declared 
the tough team to beat in Division II of the 
Pennswood West Conference. On Home­
coming, the football team trampled over 
Allegheny and brought home first place in 
the PAC. In the first annual staff cross­
country meet, CMU postmaster John Bar- 
first place in the 1.9 course with 
of 11:22.
A record 52 teams participated in IM 
football which ended with a thrilling maj­
ors championship game between PIKA and 
PIKA won 20-12. The CMU hoop 
team opened their season with a victory 
over John Carroll, and went on to finish
with an impressive second place in the 
PAC. Larry Hufnagel, whose outstanding 
performance all season carried the team to 
many victories, won MVP in the PAC.
In soccer, senior co-captain Keith Hor- 
datt was elected MVP in the PAC after four 
years of outstanding performances. Hor- 
datt was also elected all-time scorer in 
CMU's soccer history. In IM basketball, a 
record 93 teams participated with cham­
pionships up for grabs in the minors, inter­
mediates and majors.
This is only a fourth of the sports that 
went on at CMU. Hundreds of sports were 
played and thousands participated. Next 
year promises to be even more filled with 
excitement in sports.

---------------------------------------------------

00 £LIZS
6u!UUD|d UOI|DDD/\
OOSZIZV
JO
666S# uojsuajxa flWD 
s|OjU0j ojfio S|ajoq 'sauijjjv
mvD otshbyS AaasHa ksb
uva
S3Sin*o 
S1V1N3H H VD
S1310H
S3NliaiV
spjD3 4!paJ3 andTh IP *daDDD a/\/\
|SADJ*
A^isjaAjufi pazuoqino ses fsses jsanbaj uoijojJodsuDJi Aq luaiiiADj
d3|Ajas
Xj3Ai|ap aulì* ||nj—sndWVD NO 3D3HA'ÀNV ÀH3An3C] 13X311 33Sd
s*q6¡|) jo uoi jDUJ
-J|}U0D PUD sa|4!|iq0||0A0 a^Dipaujujj SNOI1VAÌJ3S3H Q3Zm3indWOD
o6jdiq aDjAjes d j0A0|s| 
S1N3W30NVHHV 13AVdl 3131dWOD
ADua6y |aADj ' fiWD |DP!H° UD
13A VUl S39HOJ
nmma nv sii 'sorvisnuoN su
•ffl)IJJOAAVN
iCjiun^joddo jaajBO Buppxa ire oc) pBaj urn :aSa{|ODqsiuijnOii 
djaq uBq^ ajoui op ireo urejSojj a^BiSaifOQ-QOdilN aiLL 
•/Cpoajip noÀ ^db^uod ||im aApBjuasajdaj Xab^ e pire ‘£0632
‘uo^unjy “pAie isohpk gio* ‘¿eea-sie ap°o Bihrbasbb
jaoijjo jeapn^f Xabj^ aq^ 03 aumsaj jnoX puas ‘jajaad noX jj 
•(pafjoo) 088£~H79-£ l P aAi^uasaidai Xab^j jnoX -pBjuoD jo 
‘ LZ'9Z PO uo snduiBD aq^ s^isia aq uaqM aApe^uasajdaj ìCab^j 
b q^iM M.aiAja^ui ub dn ^as 03 jaoijjo ^uauiaoBjd jnoX ^sy
(•oc) saury [|tnoÁ>fuxq^ ^uop0y,ng) ua^B|Xab^j aq^ 3AB3J o; appap noX ppioqs ¿qsnpui a^BAud ui sqof joj suopBoijijBnb paSpa-cqiS pire ‘sjBaX jnoj ui Ajbjbs 
000^3$13 Vfyiflqisuodsaj uo-sptreq pajBnbaun q^i^V ureaSojd Suiuibj^ SuuaauiSua ajqa ub joj paijijBnb aABq {|4n°X ‘^i a^Bui noÀ ji cjng pa^aajas aq jjtm s^uBoqdds xis XiaAa jo auo iipio pire sSuraado oot7 usq^ jsmbj ajB ajaqj, XsBa 3(usi
•snuoq qsBO 000‘8$ ® aAiaaaj n*no^ ‘Surarej^ 
jo JBaX aq^ jo pua aq^ ^b puy 'noA ÀBd aM ‘ìCab^ aq^ in ^nq 
‘¡ooqos UBifiAp b in spiresnoq^ noX ^soo ppiOM siqj, uoi^Bonpa 
¡Boiuqoa^ paouBApB jo JBaX [BuopippB ub dAiaodi ¡|tn°Á 
‘poqas ajBpipuB3 jaoijjQ jo s^aaM 91 lajjB uaqx .reaX joiuas 
jnoX qSnojq^ ^qSu q^uoui b 059$ sb qanui sb itrea ubo noX 
‘XjijBnb noX }i pire (^joqs joj O OOdilN ) uibjSojj a^BiSa^oQ 
-ajBpipuBQ jaoijjQ uoisfndojj jBapn^j aq^ paj|Bo s^j 
•^noqB MOU3J ppioqs noX urejSojd b ssq àab^ aq^ ‘SuuaauiSua 
io sDisXqd ‘q^Bui ui Suuofeui joiuas b jo jonmf b aj4noX jj
*WaA)K)*BSWKUH9n0dHllH9niH1N0W V 0S9s )BA0 NÜV3
CliiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiMiiiiiiaiiiiHiiiiiiaiiiiumiiiaiiiiiiiHiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiuiiiHiDiiiiiiiiHiiaiiHHiHiiiaiiin
UOSB9S }B3J§ B JOJ JOU9I|S 9UBIQ 
M0BO3 >(UBip OJ 95il| p|nOM UIESJ 9l|J[
9ure§ gip
jo jogdsB ÁJ9A9 ut %00l 9AB§ Apugjsisuoo 
9i{S *iB9À JX9U 3uijj9jsubi} gq ¡[iM uojing 
uX|OJB3 -UIB9J XJ9A9 UO [BIJU9SS9 
SI IBljJ diqSI9pB9¡ 9ip pgpiAOld 
AlBJ^ puB S91ABQ ttjgquiOQ 9pUOía„ BUIABQ 
‘sjoiu9§ *si9AB|d gjqBnjBA 991 qj Surso[ 
3q 9lÍX JX9U §uiiunj9i gq
l[B ^|TAV J98uipi9UIUIB{) t<UUnj^„ 9JBQ pUB * 
\™HS ‘JBJJS9JJ ÌCXJI9J„ Xjj9i 
‘I91IIUI39S „UIBJX jq3l{y[„ 91SSB>J ‘spiBlìS 
sqx S9SS91DJB9M 9l[J UBqj JUBUIUIOp 9JOUI 
9JB UIB9J 9ip JO Sqj§U9JlS 9qX 9UIB§ 9piSUI 
9qj qjiM ^no djgq pjnoo ^Bqj SJ9ÀB[d [{Bj 
JO 9[dnOO B SI JB9À }X9U ssgoons OJ À95{ 9qx 
'»LS si J91iB|s JS9[|B| gqj puB ct6tg si J9ÀB[d 
)S9||b; gqx ‘iqSpq jo ^obj iigip gq pjnoM
il ‘UIB9J OW3 9lP J° SS9U5[B9M B JUIOd 
-uid oj Tom 9uo jj -sgjnuTui ¡Buy gqj ¡ijun
umo Jigqj Suipioq subjjbx sqi punoj 9uib§ 
ÀJ3A9 puB s;uiod £ io 2 Aq 9J9M S9SSO] gqj 
JO XUB^ -SUIPB91SIUI XpUI9JJX9 SI JI ‘01*8 
-g SuijmoddBSip B SBM pjoogj |BUlJ SUBJIBX 
gqj qSnoq^y *n]j qoBuiojs gqj pus sgunfui 
99U>[ qjiM pgn§B|d subjjbx 9ip punoj 
UOSB9S gqj jo pug gqx *J3^bij 9jqBn¡Bj\ 
jsop^ stuiB9j gqj psjOA osp sbm 9q§ 'JBaÀ 
||B J9UUOJI9d JS9ipB9JS SUBJJBX 9qi U"il 
ssq gqs -spunoqgj zi UMOP P9llncì P11^ 
sjuiod pgjoos J9^ui39S 9issb^[ uopBSugs 
uBuiqsgjj ‘ÀBpsgnx JSB| ssoj gqj 9jids9Q 
•9uib§ gqj 9soj o) A[uo pB9[ fr-gz B P®q 
HW3 ‘MOIJB3 qjiM 9uib§ b in ‘uosb9s gqj 
ui jgqiBg -mo|jb3 uiojj ttsi9dooq MOflgÀ 
3uiduinf„ gip qjiM gpjgs 01 gioos b psq 
Agqj jBqj pgppsp subjjbx aip jnq ‘-flNO 
oj 9uib§ gqj pgjiajjoj X^bui3uo psq mo[jb3 
'0LrZL ‘mo|jb3 oj ssoj SupuioddBsip b ipiM 
UOSB9S Jisqi jno pasop uregj j[Bqj35[SBq 
s4usuiom gip ‘jq^iu XBpsanx JSBq
iiais Aq
a|qo|joAv sjnoH 6uSu8A] 
*6u|4sax A}uou6ajd aejj *CfrS0*C9S 
Honnasuid te­lte­c 'INIIldll 
*pua|j| |D|4uap||uo3 '6u|jd3 y§
¿1N VNOldd QN V 3N01V
—11
11¦¦1¦¦__l
OL-8-8 SPL13 aa s.uaujOM
i*zzbz.z (eie)
LI&M& 0140 UrBCrO cFUcCP BBBYB c6c||03 QEC 
Ur(XrO Br XR!MBcCAU1R
SH381V A SS 30 ‘SO6U!RRrY Br6Ud«!Jh CO CdBUFBBrYYr (UcRRc3xc MBLBB (FrOr cBBrbUd 
(Bc«cO Br vYE 0 E)
I3GDGGJEJJ3Y 3irdc2r3P c
(dBccM/ TBO rZ) »UBd9 B2H
cTUriTdTTP ODJrcTcP c 
»•l*HI9l*uod»«8 
MH3HÌE SW31SAS aaindwoD 
CEM3N3
6UA6UcRRrd)3 c 
2UcYd9T c 
UrdiBFBN ccBB c 
t>4UM*a 
M1VHM31VW 
MDHNVHD3W 
S3Uni3n»iS
:Trc
-jo 6u|mo||0| aui s|8Aa| |DJopoa può s jajsow 
aqt qtoq jd a|q0|iDA0 ajo sd|qsjuD*s!Ssv qsjoasay 
yc ¦ MFFHFF chdFhhdrhd
6¿61 ‘ti M3JB|A|-NVltíVl-0e

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTSK CLASSIFIED ADS -------
Classified Announcements:
Deadline, Wednesday, noon. Rate - $.10 
word. Address all classifieds to TARTAN 
Business Manager.
classified
Oakland area large furnished 2-bedroom
apt. for rent $270 + utilities. Immediate. 
655-1872 after 5.
Typing service. Fast, effective, reasonable.
IBM selectric. Term papers, dissertations, 
thesis. Call Rita. 521-5479.
Tennis Pros wanted-Excellent summer
seasonal and year rourtd positions available; 
good playing and teaching background 
required. Call (301)654-3370, or send 2 
complete resumes, pictures to: K.J.
Belknap, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut
Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, 
Maryland, 20015.
I have a never-used Davis Classic II tennis
racket to sell. Call Elliot, 421—2303.
For sale: 12 Pinto. Excellent condition.
Newly inspected, safe tank! Garage kept. 
27 mpg. $600 or best offer. Call x2893or 
home 683-8491.
Help Wanted: Work Study Students
2.90-3.25 per hour. Contact GSIA Ext.
2279.
Earn Extra Money. Write Sargent's 8185
Wiswall, Peoria, HI. 61605.
My name is Margery Amdur. I rented a
paper mache penguin mask for Beaux Arts 
Ball. I checked the mask; it was taken. I am 
out $250.00.
Please return the mask to the Skibo 
„information desk. There will be a reward. 
Slightly crazy but civilized biology major 
needs roommate for retention of Doherty 
efficiency apartment. Call Ken at 578-4273 
Metric conversions made simple — charts, 
tables. Send $3.00 to A. Uzoma, Box 
3812. Pqh., Pa. 15230.
Have a HAPPY SCIPIONE DAY - from 
the brothers of ATO on Wednesday.
clubs
Openings at Tech House. The Catholic
House on campus has openings for next 
year. If interested call George at 621-2911. 
W3VC MEETING: March 13, HH 401,
at 8:00 PM. All people interested in HAM 
radio, please attend.
The Finance Committee of Student
Senate meets Thursdays in Skibo, 
Room 13 at 7 PM. Meetings are open 
to the public.
PEER HELP is students trained to listen
and help you make your own decisions. 
For counseling, campus information, tu­
toring, health and law referrals, emergency 
loans, or just someone to talk to, stop by 
|the Center, Baker Hall 150-A, or phone, 
1621-9900. Hours: Weekdays—10:30 to 
|5 30; Sundays to Thursdays—7:30 to 
Fridays and Saturdays—7:30 to
The Communication Skills Center offers
individual instruction for students at all 
levels and in all colleges who need help 
with any aspect of writing. You can get 
tailor-made programs focused on specific 
writing arid thinking skills, help in pre­
paring and revising assignments, help with 
research projects, applications and resumes, 
and computer-assisted instruction. Call or 
come in to make an appointment with a fa-"' 
culty member: 161 Baker Hall, x2924, 
Monday through Friday 9:00 to 4:00. 
H&SS Students: The H&SS College
Student Advisory committee (SAC) meets 
every Thursday in the H&SS college lounge 
(BH 254-C). It provides a means of student 
input into decisions made by the college.
If you want a voice in your future and 
your college's future, come to the next 
meeting.
SDC MEETING. The Students' Dormitory
Council will meet Sunday at 7 PM in 
Skibo, room 100 to discuss Housing 
issues, Food Service problems, social 
activities, and Spring Carnival. All inter­
ested undergraduate dorm residents are 
urged to attend.
SDC OFFICE HOURS. The Students'
Dorm Council has established office hours 
in room 55, Skibo (x2114) during these 
times: Monday 3:45 to 4:45 PM, Tues­
day 1:30 to 2:30, Wednesday 12:15 to 
1:15, Thursday 1:30 to 2:30, and Friday 
10:30 to 11:30 AM. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
or call during the above times to discuss 
(complain about?) any aspect of living 
on campus.
Script Review is Coming! Scripts Tor the
1980 Spring Musical will be solicited. Book 
shows and Musical Reviews complete
scripts and scores preferred but idea
sketches acceptable Saturday April 28, 
1979. Funded by Student Senate.
There will be a Careers Seminar for H&SS 
students in the student lounge (BH 254-C) 
on Thursday, March 21, at 4:30 PM. 
Mary Lou Hough from the Office of
Career Services and Placement will speak.
Sponsored by the H&SS College SAC. 
Stone & Webster Engineering Corpora­
tion's employment representative, Nancy 
Larkin, will speak about occupational 
opportunities for engineers & scientists 
in the field of energy, on March 11 at 
7 PM in Skibo Room 11. Sponsored by 
the Society of Women Engineers.
Public Administration Organization pre­
sents Mr. Don Bornt, of International 
City Management Association, Wednesday, 
March 14, 3PM.SUPA.
Menachem Milson, Professor of Arabic 
Language and Literature, Head, Institute of 
Asian and African Studies, The Hebrew 
University, Jerusalem; leading Israeli au­
thority on Arab affairs will speak at an 
informal question-and-answer session on Is­
raelis and Arabs, past, present, futdre. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo, 1-2:30 PM. You 
can bring your lunch. Come when you can, 
stav as Iona as vou can!.
THE VEDANTIC SOCIETY takes pleasure
in announcing its first event: a talk by Ms. 
Janani Cleary, to be held in Wherrett 
Room, Skibo, Wednesday March 21 at 
7:30 PM. The subject of the talk is: Intro­
duction to Vedanta - a study in self-aware­
ness. Vedanta is a means of knowledge 
about oneself. It does not cater to any 
particular set of beliefs or religion, but 
in fact constitutes an intensive and 
scientific search for better understanding 
of the individual self. Questions from the 
audience will be most welcome. The speak­
er, Ms. Janani, has been doing an extensive 
and serious study in vedanta for the past 
three years. Admission is free and open to 
all. For further information please call 
Vivek Bammi x2935, 362-5197 Vibhu 
Kalyan x2475, 683-4913.
The Computer Center is offering a free 
seminar on rsts and basic+. The seminar 
takes place in room 5302 Science Hall 
from 11:30 to 12:30 Tuesday through 
Friday March 13-16 and Monday and 
Tuesday March 19th and 20th. If you plan 
to attend call the User Consultant at 2667 
or the Computation Center at 2638.
JOIN US FOR THE FOLLOWING SPECI­
AL EVENTS: Wednesday, March 14,
Noon: Lunch with Prof. Sol Green of Yesh- 
iva University's Wuzweiler School of Social 
Work. Thursday, March 15, Noon. Lunch 
with Rabbi Alan Fuchs of Temple Sinai. 
Sunday, March 18, 3:30 PM: Prof. Mena- 
hem Milson, Scholar in Residence, opens 
the "Israel Seminar & Zionist Information 
Conference” with an update of the Mideast 
situation. All events are at B'nai B'rith Hill- 
el, 3rd floor, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. For 
more information about these special 
events or about regular weekly activities at 
Hillel, call 621-8875.
AIESEC-CMU, the International Associa­
tion of Students in Economics and Manage­
ment, meets every Wednesday, 4:30 PM 
in Skibo 11. The campus community is 
welcome. _____general
Cyert will have
students during
President Richard M.
open office hours for 
March and April.
The dates for these meeting are Wednes­
day, March 14 and Friday, April 13, be­
tween 3 and 5 p.m. in his office. Students 
who wish to meet individually with the 
president should telephone his office, 
578-2200, for an appointment between 
3 and 4 o'clock. The hour between 4 
and 5 o'clock will be open for students 
who want to meet with the president 
but do not have an appointment.
If is hoped that this program will 
be a benefit to both the president 
and the sudents in allowing students 
direct contact with him.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open 
office hours Tuesday, 1 ;30 to 3:30 PM. 
Three internationally-known philosoph­
ers will take part in Duo"esne University's
Philosophy Department speaker series. 
Henry B. Veatch, Ph.D., will open the 
series on March 12 at 8 PM. Yale Universi­
ty Professor, Robert S. Brumbaugh, Ph.D., 
will discuss "The Purposes of Plato's Par­
menides" on April 2 at 8 PM in the Du- 
quesne Room Student Union. Brumbaugh 
is the author of three major books on the 
philosophy of Plato. Another internation­
ally recognzied authority on the philosophy 
of Plato. Reginald E. Allen, Ph.D., will 
speak on "The Doctrine of Eros in Plato's 
Symposium" on April 23 at 8 PM in Room 
553, College Hall. Allen has taught at the 
University of Toronto and is currently on 
the faculty of Northwestern University. He 
has edited two major collections of essays. 
All lectures are free and open to the public. 
For more information contact the depart­
ment of philosophy at 434-6500. 
LISTENERS ARE NEEDED for a short 
(30 Minute) language experiment. To Parti­
cipate, call x2812 and leave your name, or 
come to Baker Hall -334. (Participants will 
receive two dollars,)
On-Campus Summer Jobs ATTENTION:
Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors, and Gradu­
ate Students: The Carnegie-Mellon Action 
Project (C-MAP) is seeking a staff of teach­
ing and resident assistants to work in our 
five week pre-college summer program 
from July 14 through August 18, 1979. 
Applicants for positions should have exper­
tise in any two of the following subject 
areas: Physics I, II, III; Calculus 1,11; Chem­
istry (Freshman and Sophomore levels); 
ASE (Analysis, Synthesis & Evaluation). 
Previous tutoring experience is helpful but 
not necessary. Applications forms are avail­
able in the C-MAP Office, 410 Margaret 
Morrison Building, from 9 00 AM to 5:00 
PM or at the Skjbo Information Desk. AP­
PLICATION DEADLINE DATE: Friday, 
April 13, I979.
Looking for a summer job? The Summer
Jobs Bank of SARC can help you. Come 
to the Alumni Office, 5th floor, Warner 
Hall during the following times: Monday 
2:30—4:30; Tuesday 10:00-11 ^Thurs­
day 2:30—4:30; Friday 1:00—3:00 and 
we'll help you out.
scholarships prizes
College Poetry Review, a contest: Any
student attending either junior or senior 
college is eligible to submit his verse. 
There is no limitation as to form or theme. 
Shorter works are preferred by the Board 
of Judges, because of space limitations. 
Each poem must be typed or printed on a 
separate sheet, and must bear the name and 
home address of the student, and the 
college address as well. Entrants should 
also submit name of English instructor. 
Deadline for manuscripts is Feb. 15. 
Mail to: National Poetry Press,
Box 2I8, Agoura,
Ca.91301

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
S*, D...
MARCH 15 at 6,8:30,11 PM 
STOLEN KISSES in DH 2210 
Admission is $.75 with ID/ $1 without
Directed and written by Francois Truf­
faut, this enjoyable and funny movie is the 
continuing story of Antoine Doinel during 
his thoroughly dishonoragle discharge from 
the amy and his initially clumsy but finally 
successful encounters with women. This 
movie is gentle and affecting - - one you’ll 
cherish for a long time.
MARCH 16 at 6,8,10,12 PM 
THE RESCURERS in DH 2210 
Admission is $1.00 with ID/$1.25 without.
The Rescue c is yet another visual won­
der from the amazing Disney animation 
team. Imagination flies hgih when two 
mice and their albatrous companion set out 
to rescue an unhappy, kidnapped orphan.theater...
The CMU drama department will pre­
sent George Bernard Shaw’s Misalliance 
from March 15 thru 24. Tickets can be 
obtained from the CMU box office with 
ID.
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will pre­
sent Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are 
Dead from March 23 thru April 28. Cur­
tain times are Thursdays and Sundays 
at 8 PM and Fridays and Saturdays at 
8:30 PM. For reservations call 621-2876.
Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
For Colored Girls Who Have Considered 
Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf. It 
will run from March 14 thru May 6. Pre­
view performances will begin March 8. 
Seats may be reserved at the Public Box 
Office, 323-1900.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Romeo and Juliet on March 15 thru April
11. Performances are Thursday thru Sun­
day evenings at 8 PM. For more informa­
tion call 621-4445.
The McKeesport Little Theatre will pre­
sent Twigs on March 16, 17, 18, 23, 24, 
25, 30, 31, and April 1. For more infor­
mation call 673-1100.
Sherlock Holmes, the original play by 
Arthur Conan Doyle and William Gillette, 
will have performances at The Ridge Ave. 
Theatre at 8 PM on March 16, and 17, with 
matinees at 2:30 PM on March 11 and 18. 
For reservations or ticket information con­
tact the theatre department of the Com­
munity College at 808 Ridge Avenue, Pitts­
burgh, Pa., 15212, or call 237-2622 in the 
evening.
The Penn Hills Players will present four 
preformances of Gore Vidal’s political 
drama, The Best Man on March 30 and 31 
and April 6 and 7, at the Penn Junior High 
on Duff Road in Penn Hills. Curtain is 
at 8:30 PM. Tickets at the door are $3. 
Senior citizens and students are admitted 
on Fridays for $2.
The Playhouse Junior will present The 
Ghost of Mr. Penny from February 24 thru 
April 14. Performance times are 11 and 
2:30 PM on Saturdays and 2:30 PM on 
Sundays. For more information call 621- 
4445.
Camelot Production will present Gypsy at 
the Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Avenue, 
Bloomfield (next to West Penn Hospital) 
on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings 
thru April 1. Ticket, group and reservation 
information may be obtained by calling 
683-7770.
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage 
Company will present The Metro in Moli- 
ere’s famous comedy Tartuffe weekends, 
through March 24. It will play Thursdays, 
Fridays, and Saturdays thru March 17 at 
the Lovelace Marionette Studio at 5884 
Ellsworth Ave., and March 22-24 at the 
Smithfield United Church, 620 Smithfield 
St. Performances begin at 8 PM. A dona­
tion is requested. For more information 
call 441-6176.
Theatre Express will present Made By 
Two on March 15,-16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, 
25, 29, 30, 31 and April 1. Curtain times 
are Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 
8:30 PM and Sundays at 2 PM. For reserva­
tions call 621-5454.
Did you know that there is a $2 student 
rush rate for all of the live show produc­
tions at the Pittsburgh Playhouse? That in­
cludes plays, musicals and American Dance 
Ensemble productions. No reservations ... 
just come to the box office any perform­
ance 15 minutes before curtain with a 
current college ID and tickets are only 
$2 each. One reduced ticket per ID, 
please. The best seats are available on 
Thursdays and Sundays, but the chances 
of student tickets are good every perform­
ance. Just call the box office to inquire 
about the availability of seats that night, 
621-4445.cinema...
SDC Presents on March 17;
Fritz the Cat at 6,8,10,12 PM
With Sexy Situations, Salty Language 
and a realistic Manhatten backdrop, Fritz 
the Cat proves that animation has truely 
matured. Director Ralph Bakshi. The
WANTED: ALL CMU 
SOPHOMORES!
future engineers, 
chemists, scientists, 
managers, artists, 
writers, lawyers, 
mathematicians, ond ..
YOU can hava a job 
or career
in today s Air Force!
WE PROVIDE while in AFROTC:
— Scholarship opportunities in 
selected fields.
— $100/month, tax-free.
RESULT: You receive a salary 
exceeding $12,000 to start, 
plus benefits.
Interested? Contact Capt Bev Sanford 
tel: 624-6398
or stop by the 29th Floor 
Cathedral of Learning 
University of Pittsburgh
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of lif«
movie is to be shown in DH2210. Ad­
mission is $.50 with ID/$1.00 without.
CMU’s Club Francophone presents a 
thriller by Clouzot, starring Yves Montand: 
Le Salaire de la Peur (The Wages of Fear). 
English subtitles. \Nbdnesday, March 14, 8 
PM, DH 2210.
This weeks movies in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Film Repertory are: March 13, 
To Be Or Not To Be; March 14, The Mag­
ician; March 15, Putney Swope; March 16, 
Satyricon; March 17, O Lucky Man; March 
18, Black Orpheus; and March 19, Julia. 
All seats are $2 with two showing nightly 
starting at 7:30 PM. For more information 
call 621-4445.
music...
CMU's Baroque Ensemble will give a 
concert on March 14 in the Alumni Con­
cert Hall at 8 PM.
The CMU Philharmonic will perform 
on March 18 in the Carnegie Music Hall 
at 8 PM.
Organist Cynthia Pock will present her 
senior recital March 18 at 4 PM at Calvary 
Episcopal Church, 315 Shady Ave. Shady- 
side. The recital will include works by Bach 
Franck, Buxtehude, and Ives. The recital is 
free and open to the public.
The Vienna Choir Boys will appear at 
Heinz Hall on March 14 at 8 PM. For more 
information call 281-8185.
Interested in playing country dance 
music? A workshop for British Isles and 
American folk dance music is being held 
March ¿¡4 at the Chatham College music 
center. For registration information call 
Andreas at 578-4245.
This season’s free series of organ recitals 
will conclude on March 18 at 3 PM in Car­
negie Music Hall. Paul Koch, Organist at 
Carnegie Institute and Director of Music at 
St. Paul’s Cathedral, will perform.
Upcoming concerts at the Stanley Thea­
tre are: Nazareth plus Thin Lizzy on March
17, Stephen Stills and his band plus Irakere 
on March 24; National Lampoon’s//We ’re 
Late, Start Without Us on March 25; and 
Jack Morgan and the Russ Morgan Orches­
tra on March 28. For more information call 
281-3700.
The Pittsburgh Camerata, under the dir­
ection of Arthur Wenk, will.give a perform­
ance of its winter choral program A Sacred 
Consert, on March 18 at Kresge Auditori­
um, Carlow College, at 8 PM. All three per­
formances are free and open to the public.
art...
Nine West Coast Clay Sculptors will be 
the exhibition on display in the Arts and 
Crafts Center of Pittsburgh thru March 18.
Photographs from the permanent collec­
tion will be exhibited in the Ground Floor 
Corridor from February 8 thru May 3. 
Gallery times are Tuesdays thru Saturdays
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 to 6 
PM.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu­
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
China Trade Porcelain from the collec­
tion of Mrs. James M. Schoonmaker, Jr. 
will be displayed in the Treasure Room 
thru May 13. Gallery times are Tuesdays 
thru Saturdays from 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
will exhibit Twentieth Century French 
Prints in Gallery 10 from February 15 
through June 10. It will include prints by 
Jaques Villon, Henri Matisse, Georges 
Braque, Fernand Leger, Pierre Soulages and 
Georges Rouault. Museum hours are Tues­
day thru Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and 
Sundays from 1 to 6 PM.
Munakata Woodblock Prints will be on 
display in Gallery D of the Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute from March 15 thru Ap­
ril 29. Galley times are Tuesdays through 
Saturdays 10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 
from 1 to 6 PM.etc...
K. Stoler, A. Paxton and K. Gaites will 
exhibit paintings, weavings and glass at the 
Forbes Street Gallery from March 13 thru
18. Gallery times are Wednesday thru Sun­
day 12 to 4 PM and Tuesday thru Thurs­
day 7 to 9 PM.
On March 19 the Hewlitt Gallery will 
have a grand re-opening with a show by 
Philip Pearlstein, a CMU alumnus. Gallery 
times are daily from from 10 AM to 4 PM 
and evenings of CFA performances.
CMU Student Projects will be on dis­
play in the Entrance Gallery of the Muse­
um of Art, Carnegie Institute thru April I. 
Museum hours are Tuesdays thru Saturdays
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
CMU alumnus, Cynthia Ference, will 
show recent drawings and paintings in the 
Velar Gallery (GSIA) thru March 16. 
Gallery hours are Monday through Friday,
9 to 5.
The Associated Artists of Pittsburgh’s 
69th Annual Exhibition will open Febru­
ary 9 in the Heinz Gallery of the Museuu. 
of Art, Carnegie Institute. The exhibit will 
run thru March 15 with Museum Hours 
being Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 
PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The College of H&SS and the English De­
partment will present Shakespeare’s trage­
dy Romeo and Juliet on videotape at 7:30 
PM in room 316, GSIA on March 19. Ad­
mission is free and open to the public; re­
freshments will be served. An informal 
discussion will follow the presentation.
Mummenschanz, a Swiss mime-mask 
troupe, will entertain at Heinz Hall on 
March 17 at 2 and 8 PM. For more infor­
mation call 281-8185.
The Wheeler School of Modeling and 
J. C. Penny Fashions will sponsor a Spring 
Fashion Show on March 13 at 8 PM at the 
VIP Club in Bridgevilie. All proceeds from 
the fashion show will benefit the Allegheny 
County Easter Seal Society. Tickets are 
$3. For more information call 281-7244. 
On March 14, 10-11 PM on CBS The 
Kraft All-Star Salute to Pearl Bailey 
will be shown. The program features 
eighteen guest stars paying tribute to 
Pearl including the inimitable Sarah 
Vaughan and Ella Fitzgerald.
The Pitt Dance Ensemble will present an 
evening of dance on March 16, at 8 PM in ‘ 
the Dance Studio of Trees Hall, University 
of Pittsburgh. A $1 donation will be re­
quested at the door. For information about 
the series, phone 624-4395.
The International Poetry Forum will 
present Russian poet, Yevgeny 
Yevtushenko, reading his poetry on 
March 18 at 7:30 pm in the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. He will read in Russian 
with English translations. Tickets 
are $5.
Abigail McCarthy, writer and political col­
umnist, will join regional historian Nora 
Faires for this week’s lecture on March 22. 
in the Carlow College series, Pennsylvania 
Women: Yesterday and Tomorrow. The 
presentation will begin at 8 PM in Kresge 
Theatre on the Carlow campus. Open to 
the public with no admission fee, compli­
mentary tickets are available by calling the 
Center for Continuing Education at Carlo"' 
578-6092. Mrs. McCarthy’s topic will* be 
Jane Grey Swisshelm: From New hrontieft 
to Washington—The Story of a Woman °1 
Influence and Ms. Faires will discuss The 
Historical View of Women in Westeft 
Pennsylvania.
I
