- WATCH BULLETIN B0ABD8- 
-THISTLE OUT LATE THIS WEEK 
Distributed From "Y” Club Boom
AT.T. CLASSES »T iraTHT.K poB
COMMENCKBn¡KT BALL 
June 6 $2.00 .. Afta Foyer
VOL.'XXI NQ. 34CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY ¦ 24, 1927:
-WAT-CH-BH 
SCHOOL WILL 
START IN SEPT.
Indianapolis School to Send 
Modem Equipment Here to 
Accomodate New Students
EXPECT AT LEAST 30 
STUDENTS TO JOIN
U. T. A. CoureeB To'Be Con 
ducted Separately Prom 
All Degree Couses.
Tbe United Typotheta of Amer­
ica School which has recently heen 
added - to our present . course UL 
printing« will formerly open next 
September at tbe beginning of tbe 
regular Carnegie school yeaT.
. John C. Martin, head or the de­
partment of printing, epent three 
days In Indianapolis, Inspecting 
the equipment _ln order to deter­
mine the amount of equipment 
¦which will have to be moved 10 
Pittsburgh to accommodate the 
new studentu. '„Mr.-. Martin left 
Wednesday night May 11, and re- 
. turned Sunday, the; ftfteenjb. • • 
The present U. T. A. School in 
Indianapolis ip .-run - o? an entirely 
different taels than other schools. 
The'students spend, 44 hours a 
week in classes which, is equivalent 
to the time spent by men In the 
profession.- The'l^f. A-ietudents 
are now working eight hours a day 
iiut. Mr. Martin is endeavoring to 
have this time shortened, by this 
September. Mr. Martin is ehdeav- 
orlng to install a six-hour day. The 
t A., now in operation at In- 
; until Au-dlanapolle, will cust 15; 1927. \ iAll equipment which will be needed at Carnegie to accommo- ' date the hew students will be brought here this summer fr
1 care of JheTJ. T. A. .students., Sev- ..ecai jni.ett-AW Ji,QW-h,eiflg..«»8W.er|d to fllftbe two chairs created by .the United Typotheta of America. The tl. T. A. recently made'a $225,000 endowment to Carnegie for the pur­pose ot creating and supporting the two chairs., One of the chairs Is for a professor ,ln printing and ite. other for an Instructor in 
craftsmanship training.The courses now offered by f’
'year In length. These courses arc all 'regular craftsmanship courses and include absolutely no academic 
subjects.The students now taking a degree course Jn the Department of Print- :ntlrely separate
ÈLEÇîMM^RESULTS OF M. M.C.C. COMPLETE
Various 1 Organizations Naj 
Officer for 1927-28.
The .different organizations clubs of Margaret Morrison ¦ been busy throughout the week electing officers for Lhe 1927- 28 school year. After sever« votes the following officers 
elected:''Senate.
President, Jean Mather; president, - Jeai Roy; seen Henrietta Apciptter; trgas 
' Gertrude Zenk.'Women's Athletic AssociatePresident. Leah Milkman; president, Sally-Hulick; seen 
treasurer, Gertrude Zenk.
Y. W. C. A.
President, Marjorie Snodgrass; yice president, Charlotte War dale; secretary,-Barbara Renwick; treas­urer, Jean Springer. -.' tlrls1 Glee Club... President, . Mirian Cupps; mana­ger, Dorothy Hoy; assistant mana­ger, Gladys Comer;:- secretary- ¦ treasurer, Helen R<Wd; librarian, Helen Ehni; assistant librarian, Mary Farbaugh.
President, Adele .Halm; vl president,. Louise Roy;^secret»» Evelyn Golderiso'n; treasurer, Ire: 
Tedijojv.,, ,•, Plebfi-'ft'ea'ulatipn .ComfTiltlee. -President, . Annabel .
DrJimljeHcr j^iieìì j y *
.Sora.Curry/ Mary .Ann 
Senior Judge, Phyllis m pL'AY AT *•
! ’blutí; ç
, .ÇaïeCi ....... ------Hááel Máthas; çeç-
.i;etary;treasùrei'jïÎïfttiif^..?Smi&; ¿ó¿íal ’chairm jpL Helen- Bright!
.-tt^àId^É,v^ùrfër porgan;-sà'çr«; vvtâfyi'Whlrley Edelstein; =’.treasuras
MaTgaret Morrison and tbe Art School have announced their Plebe Regulation Committees for. next 
year. The Science and Industries echools will make tbelr appoint­ments this week. .The Margaret Morrison Regula­tion Committee', is composed ot Annabel Wright, .chairman; Sally Curry, MaTy Ann Drumheller,- Helen Whitehlll, and Virginia 
Beam. The Arts Plebes will > have a.B their oversee», Charles Kenny and Fay Kent
Several changes will he, tnade concerning the regulations for the next school year. Each plebe will be required, for tbe first month at least, to carry a small whits card bearing bis name. This step will be taken as an added precaution for correct identification. No cbewlng tobacco will be'given to the plebes at trial.. Wesley Mills haB been appointed by Mark Selb- ert to take charge of the Audi­torium Plebe Stunts.
M. M. Organizations 
Advise Formation of 
Scholarship Body
Recommend Several Or­
ganized Benefits During 
Year For Funds
At a meeting of the presidents of the various classes and organi­zations at Margaret Morrison, held on Menday, Jfty 2, several topics were discussed. The main point stressed was the unresponsive' at­titude of tho students toward the activities in which they should be taking an active Interest. The fol­lowing suggestions were made: (1) That a comjnittee be formed to bo called tbe Women's Scholar­ship Fund Committee; (2) That the members of this' committee consist of representatives of each of the various organizations. (3) That the purpose of this commit­tee shall be to Taisa money for a scholarship fund equivalent to the .amount now, contributed by tbe in­dividual organizations: (4) Thatthrough co-operatlop of the various organizations this committee shall hold a single big benefit for this fund. (5) That class and club ex­penses exclusive of. scholarships 
wlll .be covered.by..¿he c?ass and •cluh^dusB^ViiSV. That, a-'meeting.Jkit. ttiaprealdents-elect of the various organizations he .called to present these suggestions to their atten­tion. : (7); It was furthermore sug­gested that inasmuch as the Guild Carnival has been less and less successful for the past several years that-the Guild might be re­organized to function as a part ot the Y. W. C. A.
At a meeting of old and new presidents of the various organi­zations with the ¡exception, of the now presidents of tbe departmental M., the further eugges-tlonsiade:
(1) That the classes discontinue the practice of giving ‘scholarships and instead act in có-operation with the Scholarship Fund Com­mittee.
(2) That classes at the comple­tion ot the senior year might con­tribute the balance, IE any., in their treasuries to the endowment -
' (3) That the Scholarship Fund 
Committee might hold several ben­efits. df different natures, 1. e,, one big theater-party; oner , big brldgs,
(4) That these suggestions be posted on bulletin boards foj Information of the students.
(5) That, this Scholarship Fund Committee should be forme tho presidents of the varlou ganlzatlons to begin plana this
(6) That a meeting of .the 
dent body be held to determine theContinued on Page Three.)
SCABBARD AND BLADE 
ANNOUNCES ITS CALL
One of thehonorarles sched­uled to make Its call on qualifica­tion1 day of Campus Week, an­nounces the -names of those to whom it has extended membership. This fraternity, Scabbard and Blade, callad these men: Frederick Woods, Richard Connelly. Clyde McKee, John HagaQ, Clarence Red- stonfe and Raymond Ransom, all from-the executive ranks'of the local R_ O. T. C. unit. Dr. Thomas S. Baker and Francis Cothrar rterc-i initiated as associate mem bers.
To Quality for Scabbard jind Blade one.must be a student In ad­vanced courses In tlie R: O. T. C. with the ultimate view of accepting
billty. for Ieader^iiy,
EXHIBITS;,.vR. VyELDON'CO.
\ Priutift^ -Departmeni
plôasçd'to' announce à display- of, 'printing 'and ' hlndlug^ compì ' Abtiej&eads, motto cards, '».me pages, and yari0us.sstylss;0f £ra£t‘ bií. tlTe:!studtìnts: ;qf^thlé * aoï)àrtmerit:V' The cllSplay ^*now4)elng'eiliihltedlnrthe^wln- 'dows ot the J. R. ^elàòn' fccapajiyj j •ll&'Woqii l[íéet,'.riitt3b.urgh, éa.,.:‘;
LUNCHEON AND 
GRADUATION 
BALL JUNE 6
L. R. Esch to Head Com­
mittee Planning Annual 
Senior Functions
^ Carnegie’s annual Senior Week 
will be marked tbis year by two major events, the plans tor which are now being prepared by an all- school committee. The statement in last week’s issue' ot the Tartan that John Carr was to head this Senior Week committee, was er­roneous. Tbe office will be filled by Leonard R. Escb, of tbe Build­ing Construction Department ot
bead.
Tbe Senior Week social func­tions are to take place on Monday, June 6, the day preceding the com­mencement oxerclseB; The Com­mencement Ball will be an open AJI-Carnegie dance and It 1s hoped
enjoy the IaBt event of the year with the graduating class. Paul Williams is.in direct charge of the Ball plans, with Brastow arrang­ing for refreshments-and Bernardl, the. decorations. It has been an­nounced that these affairs are to be definitely informal. The Ball tickets are to be sold for two dol­lars. Ed. Eberman is arranging for tbe Ball programs and Senior Week schedules, while Merrill Hoi- llnshead 1b in charge of publicity.
The other Senior Week funclion ie to. be a luncheon on Monday aft- ernoon. For the planning of this affair, a special women’s commit­tee composed of three Margaret Morrison Seniors, will act in con­junction with the above mentioned men’s representatives; This wo­men’s committee Is composed of “Tweet” Reese, "Al” Rlbblets, and "Bets” Lesser.
In preceding years, it has been e retiring Seniors days Immediately before commencement in a final
found, however, that these exten­sive inroads into tbe time of the graduates was detrimental to their £w_nJnterftste .apd it .3-W dec] dsd
Council Approves 
ÈLE Band Officers
r leadei
At tbe regular meeting ] Tuesday, May 17, Student Coui finished up several important IU of the .year's business. Forcm In Importance was the approval or the ebeer leaders for Mark Sfelbert as head 1 and Henry J. Bell as bi ager. New officers of the Kiltie Band were brought up and also ap­proved. They are as follows: Beryl R. Hill,1 manager; Guy Starr, first assistant; Harold James and Carl Kump, second assistants; James Smiley, librarian, and Jo- seph Chamberlain, secretary.
The rather interesting matter*of the Puppet Staff for the coming year came up for discussion,' whii proved somewhat heated. Ho ever-, -approval- •'af,!-the staff 1 recommended, was the finartesult of the whole thing and the follow­ing men will edit tbo Puppet next year: W. H. Sheik, editor-in-chief; J. L. Austraw, business manager; Howard Baer and G. R. Graham, Art editors; E. B. Ross, advertis­ing manager; O. L. Seibert, circu­lation manager; R P. Bullinger, managing editor; W. P. Albrecht, exchange editor; and R C. Haines, literary editor.In connection with the appoint ment of the editor-in-chief of the Tartan for 1927-28, Mr. Hollli head, who now bolds this offi< voluntarily came before tbe Cot ell to explain his recommend&tio
The elections for the Tartan staff of next year will not be known'ur til Tuesday evening, May 24, whei the names of the'staff’s officers fo next year will be presented before the Student Council for llicir
9 successors, subject /al of the Student Couucll. If roved by the .counci or-in-chief and busli immediately announce.staffs for-the following
.aff biu had ,chai
location.. Ho\
issue ,ot;tho .Tartan for-this s lias-already gone to..press. .•-It.,ls: hoped that U10 ne,\v.T . s,taft ..win .contjnue the excellent policy that' has. been so. evident ii the. JWst. ’ .-.'tyo feci'sure that, the: wiil^coutinue;, tbe. • vast Jniprov;« ments ..that, havo .been .addfed ¦yeai by. yeai'cto- the paper,, thus' .giving Carnegie.'Tartan jjer. .w,oil 'de­served : national, recognitionamiing 
icoUej^.ne'pppaper6.’
Sailing of The Swan
By HAROLD JACOBSON When time has swept us on into thé maelstrom of realities, precious then will be ttyj present moments —. we shall be able. to glance back In our glass with reflections' of remembrance. Glorious as thé Gnale appears, the sparkling la al­ways a bit saddened sentimentally which causes tho jovial efferves­cence ot. the nectnr to Inspissate by the staid departure <jf our most loyal Carnegians—the Seniors.Is event recalls Swinburn’s Sailiog of the Swan in Tristram— “Whore yet the swan swung rast at anchor • • • hoisted her snow bright sails and look tbe glli
-the ;settlmsail on an unknowu and unrathom- able Sargossa which remains as obscure ae the wind whose rush­ing mane no band has been laid and in whose mouth hBS been set no bridle since the world swung out of chaos In a chariot of flame.Since the first swan sang in Par­adise superstition has taught .us to regard this as an inauspicious omen: but that this Is sheervfolly was well shown when Plato made Socrates^ remark in Phaedo that— “at their death, swans sing not out of Borrow or distress but because they are ineptred by Apollo and they sing as foreknowing the good
things that the gods have iu store 
fof-tUem.” ‘t
er? the seniors at all psychical 
would be able to see a future ie crystal,that would astonish- ln£ly assure them of the many “ghod things tliat the gods have in store ,for them.1'- Theirs is. a.genu- ine future: emerging trom the chjysalls with their wings glaized wltli erudition and technical skill tbffy gradually display the trans­mogrification from mero tyros in tb$ world ot art and trade to the dd'ezling figures in public promin­ence.: jjirach, the old suge Id the Apocrypha, adjured; “It tbou hast gathered nothing In thy youth bow caijkst thou -And ' anything In thy £ge?’” Serving'to instill deeper the
uiooth With lymbo-tul Interlude In an oceanic epoch where all I9 filled
molten Bea of be< iliem i
»rflowln-havingthetehptational stab of a Guilli bip'd-tbo arras: of political dissen­sion as strabillously keen as that between the Guelphs and1 Glilbil- lipes; and testaments of loyalty li^e which served as a crucible forinued
MUSIC DEPT. WILL 
GIVE 2 RECITALS
Miss Steenson and Miss Ida 
Waldron in Graduating 
^ Recitals
. The Department of Mu6lc of Car- negio Tech will present, two mem­bers of its graduating class in pub­lic recitals. Tho first of these re­citals featurea Miss Elinore Steen­son, contralto, assisted by Matthew Frey. The secohd recital prosents Mies Ida Waldron, yioilnist, asslstr ed by Lucille Burrell and Charles Shotts. These recitals will be given in the Little Arts Theater and are free to tbe public.
Miss Steenson’B recital Is Thurs­day evening,, May 26th. at S:30 p. m. Her program is as follows: . PROGRAM, - ¦ / IHandel....Dovo Sel, Amato Bene?Durante ....................................'Durante..Dania, fanclulla gentileRossi .....................................
„„.Aria; VML Ri^iPiilVXMitranpl
Poldowskl.
Aria, "Printemps qui Commence" (Samson et Delilah)
BrahmsleiserSchubenBrahms.Heimlich Auff<Ie Mainacht ffordeurung
Colerldge-Taylor.........................
..................The Blood Red RingCarpenter...The Cock Shall CrowRummel .................. TwilightHoreman........... .........................The Bird of the Wilderness Matthew .Frey at the piano.EIN0 Waldron’s recital is S'unday evening, May 29th, at Q::30 p. m. Program is as follows:PROGRAM 1. Grieg—Sonato for violin and ' piano. Op. 45—»Allegretto ex­pressive alia Rom&nza—Ajlle-
Ha Waldron and Mariha Ha'nlon2. Saint-Saëns—Plano Concerto '- in-'G. minor—Andante sostenu-
to—Allegro 6cber2ando..........Ludllc Burrell3. Chausson—Concerto for-vio­lin, piano .and string quartet,• Op. 21—SIcilienne—Grave.... Ida Waldron, Martha Hanlon, Helen Foster, Alice- Harding, Katherine RIckert Grace BazeU4. Rubinstein—Plano Concerto No. 4, Op. 70—Andante—Mod- erato assal........Charles Sbotts5. Sarasate—Zigeunerweisen...;..........'............... Ida WaldronAccompanist, Martha Hanlon.
SURVEYING E208 ON 
JUNE 6 AND AUG.. 24
eau Rogers Qualifies 
orMovieSemi-Flnals
Producer of Campus Week 
( Show. Chosen From 
1 Over 300 *
1 By HAROLD JACOBSON 
r"Tbere Galahad sat with ,manly gface beside love lorn Tristram and Morolt of the Iron mace"— gathered around the dinner table tie other evening like the knlgbtB With their ale mugs at ancient Camelot, the Brothers at Beta Theta PI gave a rousing welcome :<j their fraternal leader, Walter
hlB ]lotion plc- ue dub oftyres had received the knighthood.
.-Having been chosen from over three hundred applicants in many collegeB, Walter Browoe Rogers Ie tbe only student representing Car* negle in the final tests ot which 40 men remain, .This Screen Con- HAfit^BponaoretK by- First' National Pictures and College Humor, baa gained nation wide fame; and it 1b not altogether surprising that Buch a talented person as Walter Browne Rogers should have been selected for tbe finals.
escutcheon already brilliantly studded with achievement, for Wal­ter Roger’s shield blazons forth with a Catnpu9 career that baa been pre-eminently successful: hU distinguished executive ability was demonstrated with last year’s . C. W. Vaudeville, and this year’s C. W. show; his ubiquitous sense of altruism has won for him the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
NEW EQUIPMENT FOR 
HEAT ENG. COURSE
Believe Caxnegip To Have O11I7 
Combustion Tunnel. )
¡qulpm: for 1
day afternoon from the <
weeks’ course In surveying woul be given from June 6 to 18 li elusive, and also the latter part <
period for the drst time this sum­mer. The course is open to stu­dents in commercial, chemical, me- chanical, metallurgical and elec­trical engineering courses, and It
In the Heat and Combustion ot the Department of Mechanical Engineering will be made available to day'students in this course nex year. During tbe school yea 1926-1927, a course in Heat an< Combustion Engineering was givei to graduate students, most of then being combustion engineers of th. Pittsburgh district. The eqult ment will be used from now on li the new day -course in Heat DL glneering, which Is given in the Mechanical Engineering Depart­
ment by Professor W. Trlnks.
¦Tbe majority of Mechanical Eci; gineera think of combustion wl
the@ boiler furnace, whereas t field is very much larger, since refers alike to Industrial furnac used for heating and those used for melting and reAni 
glass and other subst 
Tbe principal part
furnace to which various kinds ot burners and combustion devices can be attached.at one end. It is provided with observation boles through which flue gas samples can be taken and through which temperatures of tbe riazne and^of tbe furnace walls can be observed. Above the rear'end of the tunnel there is a “Calco” recuperator by means óf which- the combustion air can be preheated to about 800 deg. F. The piping and blast ducis are nged that the ti1 the he supplied elthei was! or with 1
alely alter examinations.Ìlio schedule calls for an .eiglit-Iiour day from 3:30-till island 1:00 till C.: Op.. \Yprk: will' be suspended .'oaVTuesdóy- .aitcrnoò’n, .; June • 7; during, the., .commencement. exeV- 
cieesi' which will/necessitate a full' day’s schedule ‘on1 the- following 
Saturday, Provided .the course has bcei?, compjetefl, Iwork..on1 Jj«e;18 will b^£uapended at nogn.,- ;
».being installed 1
- Instruments-have been provided for’ nieasurliig and for: analyzing fuel as'well' as flite gases. 'Air'fuel 
'and air quantities are being ideas'- litei. ' ¦' :: ' ’/At %the present ^tlme' natufai • thr.ee).
PROGRAM IS 
COMPLETE FOR 
GRADUATION
Corbett is Graduation Day 
Speaker, Rev. Black to 
Deliver Sermon
Final arrangerucots for com­mencement have been made. Har­vey Wiley Corbett has been ob­tained tor the commencement ex­ercises. Tbe baccalaureate ser­mon will be dcllvorcd by Rev, Hugh Black. The program begins with this sermon at S p. m. Sun­day, June 5, and ends with a re­ception given to the graduating class, directly following the com­mencement 'exerclscs.
Dr. Black is professor of prac­tical theology at tbe Union Theo­logical Seminary Id Now York City. He Is a native of Scotland, where be was ordained to lhe iuin; Istry. In 1917 tie received the hon­orary degree of D. LHl. trom the University of Pittsburgh. Yale. Princeton, and Glasgow Universi­ties conferred honorary degrees ot D. D. also. The servlco Is to be held In the Carnegie Music Hall, seniors, their Irleuds, and the taculty being invited. Tbe mon graduates are to assemble In tbe emoklng roqrn in the basemei and the women in the Green Rooi on the bnlcony ot the foyer. Tb marshalls are to direct tho marc to the hall. AH seniors who ai to receive documents of graduation are expected to be present.
Mr. Harvoy Corbett, tbe gradua­tion day speaker, has gained world fame as an architect. He Is si graduate of the University of Cali­fornia am? of L’Ecolo do3 Beaux Arte In Paris. At'present he Is a lecturer at Columbia University, 
a member, of the advisory board of the . School of Architecture at Princeton, and- a member -of the (Continued on Page Three.)
Builders’ Exchange 
Gives Scholarships
Six Scholarships Awarded 
to Students in Building 
.. . ^.QonstrufeUon Sv,
Tho annua) Building Construc­tion Scholarship awards were made in tbe Industries Assembly which w^e held May 10.
The awards were made by W. S. Miller, chairman of the Carnegie 
Scholarship Committee. In behalf ot the Pittsburgh Builders' Exchange.! 
Tbe awards were made to Frank Levine, Clarence Udd, James Austraw, Wayne Crouse, Charles W'elty, Jr.. and Frank Thomas.Levino and Udd received $100 chccka, while the. other four receiv­ed checks for |25. The Builders' Exchange makes an annual award of $300 which la divided amon the candidates recommended by the faculty. The Scholarships ar< awarded primarily on scholastic standing but the iltianclal stal the student ia given some com
scholarships havibeenawarded annually since 1922 by th< Pittsburgh Builders’ Exchange. Thi Builders'-Exchange Is planning t( materially increase the sum availa­ble for scholarships —1 -----This contribution on the Builders’ Exchange shows tbe appreciation for the work done by the Department of Building C01 struction In the Held of Building Construction.A joint letter was written by. the recipients of . the scholarships and sent to the Builders' Exchange In appreciation for tbe scholarships.Continued on Page Varee.)
Call at iRoom 3 Ind. For 
Any Articles in List Lost
Tlic following books have Lei turned in- at tho Lost and Foui Office during the current school year:In the Land of Youth, Algebra, Palmer. / . .College Algebra—Ford, Ele. Ital­ian Grammar—Mottl.Int. Col. Chem.—Holmes, Hand­book of Physics and Chemistry.First Course In French—Rouk, Practical Harmony—Buasler. Hymnals, Phonographic Amanuen­sis—Howard.human Physiology, Styles, Chemical Calculations—L. & A.Ele. Economics, Fafrdttfd, Prison­ers of the Temple.Tlie Tragedies of / W. Shakes­peare.Hist, of West. Barope, Cent. Coll. Handbook.Macmillans Tables, Readings in Gr?gg Shorthand.Hygiene AppliedStai ' Ele.n-d. Dictation—Husick. Com
PFirst Course in Crouch, Much Ado About Nothing-..- ' i',
Eng- Prose and’ Poetry—Ninly; Railway Transportation—Miller. ¦" Int. ‘ Coll.' • 'Chemistry,—Holmes, EngJnering -DrawlBg—Ti'each. • •Trin. of- A'ccoùhting,'-K. and M., New Second poùr'Se in Àlgebra, v •
Ele; Calculus;-1'. 8TSOKi arid B.,-Coll!'' Read.' -'lri Eng. Prose^Scott 
• .Còntlàuei^cn 'Pege 'Thrae^ •
AT "Y" CLUBROOM
N Q.,* Thistle has now beeu 
le Dress for the Inst week and 
printer Is working night and' 
)D the book. It should bo out
Thursday or Friday of this week and will be- distributed from the 
“Y” clubroom in the Industries. 
School'.. Persbns who have sub­
scribed should brlng thetf receipts 
and balance due and receive their 
book. Special arrangements have 
been randc'to provide^or persons 
who have lost receipts, so this wilt 
be no obstacle In obtaining the
JAMES AUSTRAW IS 
BUSINESS MANAGER
intirei sub-
scrlbed and tho only opportunity 
for those who have not ordered 
thorn, to obtain one, ie that some- body'win not call Tor hlB hook. 
Perhaps In a few cases persons who orileYed Thistles have dropped out of school.
KUNKLE WILL HEAD 
INTERFRATERNITY
Choose Schmid Vice-Presi­
dent, Seibert Treasurer, ’ 
Hunter Secretary
At tbe annual election of officers 
of tbe- Interfraternity Council, held 
last Saturday.' morning, William 
Kunkle was chosen to lead tbe 
council in Its activities for next 
^oar. . At tbe same-time the coun­
cil elected Joe 9chmidt, vice presi­
dent; Gerald Seibert, treasurer, 
and Harold Hunter secretary.
William Kunkle Is a junior Ar­
chitect, andsllon. He is alsomber ot
Scarab and Dragon, honorary fra­
ternities. During the past yeai; 
he h^s been president of the Tek- 
non Club, and he was one ot the 
assistant chairmen of Campus 
Week,
Joe Schmfdt Is a junior Archi­
tect and belongs to Phi Kappa Fra­
ternity. He Is a member of Delta 
Skull and haB been very atUve. In 
vArsIty- tennis. During the past 
year, he was president of the 
Junior Class In Arts. School,' ...., 
"GteTaidSeibertlajuniorCom merclal Engineer, and a member, of Sigma Nu Fraternity. He is also a member of Thetd Tau and Drai gon honorary fraternities.
. HaTold Hunler Is a junior Ar­chitect and member of ' Kappa Sigma. He has been active In the Bdnd and the Musical Clubs.No definite action has been taken with respect, to the fall rushing season. . Decision as- to whether tho late rushing, as adopted last year, or the method of rushing at the first of the semester, as .was done In years before, will be fol- lowod next semester remains with tbe exocutlve board. It Is not ex­pected that any definite ruling will be made' Immediately.The Interfraternlty Council members noxt year will have a new design in a key to wear. Tho type used tlila year has been found lo be unsuitable for several rea­sons, the', principal one being the large elzei of the insignia. Several attractive designs are being drawn up, and from these the new slgnla will be choeen, although It Is thought possible that! the old keys In a small size would prove suitable.
GLEE CLUB CHOOSES 
NEXT YEAR'S OFFICERS
SCHEICK MADE 
PUPPET EDITOR 
FOR NEXT YEAg
J. R; Graham and H. V. Baer 
Will-be Art Editors-^- 
Haines and AlbrechtonStafT
Boss, Bullinger and Seibert 
Have Important Ap­
pointments for 1028.
Following a tradition that bus 
long beon lo voguo on tho campuB 
aud is In complete accord with.the 
Student sTtLrbbu . the Puppet an- 
nouncos its elections to next year’s 
staff. The following wlte, sages 
nod buffoons will do the cavorting In edltorlpl garb: W. H. '^cheJclJ, editor In'chief; J. H. örahnm'-and 
H. V. Baer, ,-art- .odUtirevifcM Haines, llterary'cdltor; and W;'I*. Albrecht, ^oxctitmge ,'^dltor. Tlip business'staff that wlil don thofr business suits and go hither, .,lhllli- er. yon and .elsewhere about0 thejf: .bUBlneaB-'.ivili be James Austral, business manager; E. B. Ross, ad* vortlelng. mahr----cidatloi;er, imd R\ ; i?dltbr. «
Men’s Musical Olub SecureB H, 
B. Gaul for Director.
At the annual banquet ol Mens’ Glee Club which was May 9 In the Pittsburgh At) Association, the new officers foT next year were elected as follows: Wilbur : Scott, manager; Robert Boyd, Carl Fry, Kenneth Brooke, first assistants; Sidney Warnec, Paul Brantigam, Walter Sickles, Wilfred Worland, James Robert­son, second assistants.
Harvey B. Gaul has already signed a contract for next year and the club Is ?ure of the same good leadership as Mr. Gaul put forlh this year. Charles Shotts probably remain as aceomp with Walter J. Poyntz ae slu director to fill the vacancy left by Merrill Hollinshead who graduate this year. Holllnshead proved ver; capable and much credit ia du< him for the club’s musical success Poyntz needs no Introduction 01 the campus as he has. been pronil_ ncnt in musical production^ and their direction. Wltlji the able di­rectors' sccured the glee club should 6(111 continue, with success, their Idea of “going high brow:'" Perhaps the. students wiif giadu-
r.tripB and wlll > during the.;QUi.making, plan;
.continue to.-d .. _ .,. .m¿r;..mQuÍhs as. this' .is: without doubt a drawing card to the mem-
men'-who will 'be ,- loat' ¦ by- gra'dua-^0' tionsotheroater- néxt.séûBOnvunremain-
llnserì ^mànaglng^ pdltbi
Getting down to the things tha^ the. sl'ddents are really, luterofltoi in, tòt. ScKe.lck. ls.a member;i)'i* .the College of Fino' Arts,. DepfirtiqoDt of 'Architecture; ' Alpha Slg'ma ,phi, Ajphr^ .Rhq. Chl, Pl.Dolta .¿psjloi^ Tail; Sigiaci ,Della ; and tbo Puppet staff.. ;<Mr.. Austraw Is also^on th^ Puppet sbiff-and'ltt a membtìr oi-the Colloge Of Industries. Department ot Dulldlng 'Construclion, Kappa Sigma and Dragon. - •.
Noxt year’s Puppet wlll'be a big­ger, better and' broader publication tban thls year!p magazine, and nlt^ all d,ué apologies' )io/ this .‘year’s staff, òr as many of them: as laeted the. year out,' it Bhofild be a g^c^t magazine.
The Student' Council passed on the clcctlon of the now staff at their regular aèsBloh last Tuesday evening and everything, was hap- ', plly agreed upon. Mr. ’ Schelok'' promises many Innovations^; daring; bltsofsohiiltzBl,: and.inu(l;it'Jdltfi*l^
fully and respecll.vely asked by, members of the staff to leave thelr^ full nameB and summer ' addresses in the Puppet box at the campus post office. There are numerous acanclea on tho staff and aspiringiokemilhB and budding quite eaBlly. become the ] sessors of Puppet keys.
•tist
Fraternities Hold 
Annual Elections
Most of tbe Carnegie Tech-fra­ternities have held their . annual election of officers for the next school year. The others have made arrangements to hold their e1ecT tlons in tbe near future. The fol­lowing is the list of the fraterni­ties and their presidents for.'next
Acacia.....................:..Not ele.ctedAlpha, Tau Omega................................... .T. MooreAlpha7 Sigma Phi..........,.Wm. WareBeta'Sigma Rho...'.H. Teldsteia Bela Thata Pi...... 1. iW;. RogersDelta Ma..............C.’ WlseinanDelta Phi Delta.........p. ParkerDeltfl, Tau Delta.. v 1. J. F. Dlffley DeltA Upsllon.......Wm.' KunkleKappa Sigma............Not electedKappa Sigma Rho...........J. Dean'Phi Kappa...............R. Connelly
Phi Kappa Pal................M. StumpPhi Sigma Kappa........Wm. BellPi Kappa Alpha;.,'..-,.......P. KingSigma Alpha Epelloni .M. Burnside Sigma,Nu.-.V....,'.p. - Cooper Sigma Phi Epsilon...Mark.Seibert Tbeta. XI.. .. ..'.. .R. Follansbee
Alpha Chi Alpha
Initiates Three Girls
journalistic fraternity oh the Car­negie campus, initiated' tiirei girls, Marjorie Snodgrass, ’iSj' XouiSe Koenig, '23, ¿nd Miriam. Meirgolis, ’29. Elizabeth' MaGFa'ddeh' - was pledged wtth theae'.girl’s on Quali­fications day .but was unable to bo Initiated because -of illness. 1-
in -the. Wbin
j gyqi-;
,' held otter the'
Alpha Chi Alpha wiB fourided: in 1919'..at.. thc.VUniversliy^ef'Tein- nessee fqr • the . purpose,-«f reward­ing those.-who had done meritorious iwork^-:-"<ln. collegqs publfcfitfaus. ,Thete;are tiqw tcn;.chap,ter%!1pa.itie roll,-of- ¡this prganjfaiiof), iajefu’Ans those' at the University. ow.SiyjUi- ern jCfillfofjUfi, ' Nortw^sWr^.'^ud Coraeil." ''i riK l$i9‘, 'tlio ' Carnegie local^c orary, Pi Sigma Tau wentrn jfe- th? Thei^;'Ctfapter,
lost'. byrgi^'duiÈê'i^^iieÿf ,-^i e g *ca- ¦ot the. gleç-cliib J^#^ AHV-gflrls ^há.; have^ónè;
imaln-píaotltáll^
i«»* tai feiWT^he,:h|5;a,éiSv¿'n

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAIWaiC TAWTAH
First Chnrch of Obrlst, 
ScientistClyde'8t™et,NeerPIMh Aveni Sunday, 11 A. M. «nd 8 P. M. Wednesday, 8 P. M.. Sunday School, 11 A. M.
BUTLER’S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET We.Deliver; AH Orda». " ¦J. O. BAKERS Manager M«yfl«wer 7944
CATERING
Prices Reasonable-
That our Refreshment 
Entertainment is most de­
sirable for Frateruityuand 
' all other School Affaire, 
experience will convince.
Small orders receive the 
same careful attention as 
the more extravagant
Weddings 
a Specialty
rpycEI 1 CATERING CO.
In Later Life
Early habits are endurlnn onea. Begin new. to acquire those of saving and accumulating money. 
An account with the Mellon Na­tional Ban* will give.you Ne splendid start. Persistent sav­ings will develop financial lnrte>
MellonNationalBankPlttsbiggh. Pa.
ethenthec the New Las and Leathers in all the New Shapes and Shades, in all the New Designs and Patterns—and present all the New Style Pacts. 
And the Regal Price—One Price, $6.60—for all Leathers in all Styles, is now recognized Trom Coast to Coast as a New Standard of Value inStioes.
SHOES
Jageman & Spickert
’ ELLIOTT’S 
1 4010 Fifth Ave.
, Store is Convenient 
for Students’ 
Supplies
Our branch store wae ed for the patronage of neigh, borhood students and la stocked with merchandise required their studies.
We reciprocate your appro?— with low prices and expert at­tention.
Drawing Materials Architects' Supplies U Engineers' Supplies I Artists' Materials
BinocularsField GlassesReading GlassesStill Cameras & Supplici
f —¦ Eye Glasses—Spectacles Oxfords—Lorgnettes
REASONABLE PRICES EFFICIENT SERVICE
Former Instructor 
Of Architecture 
Builds Cathedral
Edward J. Weber -Worked 
Year Under Taylor arid 
Rapp Without Salary
¡ENDOWMENT FUND 
BOOSTED BY 1917 
CLASS, ENGINEERS
Probably no architect ever grad­
uated trom'-Cartegievor anywhere 
eloe without dreainsVof someday 
building' -’a." 30-story skyscraper 
which' will embellish his name and 
lake him famous overnight, Jtisl 
3 the musician dreams of compos- 
ig.a great syphonyor.aTjournol-i 
t. of writing. a bedt seller .which 
111 In <fre time become'a classic» 
Needless lo soy most or, such bub­
bles usually burst'- at 'táó.flrst breath of «disillusionment. How­ever some of tbom uro: blown by uch lusty lungs that tney manage o exist in spite of everything.. «uch was the bubble blown by Ed- j ward Joseph Weber of Pittsburgh j vho was, for a time, during his :areer, assistant professor of ar- ¡bltectural design ot Carnegie Tecb. The bubblo reached tbe sky jout a year ogo when the new lillion dollar cathedra) at Wheel- ig, W. Vo.-, was dedicated.While Mr. Weber now considers mselt a Pittsburgher he lived, as boy la the shadow of the Cincin­nati Cathedral which Ie widely ;ed for the classic beauty of Its hltecture with Its Greek Corin­thian porticos and tower. It was probably 1n this atmosphere that he first became imbued with the Idea of someday building gTeat churches. The young man, then Uvlng on Price Hill, look up art work at the Cincinnati Art Acad- After graduating from this institution Mr. Weber became as­sociated with Taylor & Rapp, Cleveland architects, where he worked hard for an entire year without receiving a cont ot Bal- When his first wages camethoy
Angelo dl Vincenzo, the promis­ing young portrait painter whose works of art, many of which now bang in the mansions ot society's foremost art connoisseurs, has won the praise of leading contempor­ary aTt critl 'j. H4 recently vis­ited Newark, N. J.. to offer as a gift to the Newark Museum an oil painting be recently completed. It
'.production or Leonardo da I M|J ¿"thousbt or
Members Agree to Give 
Total of $17,000 Which 
Wni be $51,000 by 1946
Campus Week mayind go
Afte:timfor
Vlncl s famous Mona Lisa or The, a8 jt p„B8ee except for the person- Sphinx of Beauty. The orlglnel (#1 enJoyment recelved by tbe 
canvas by the I^IIan master, paint- aDd tbe student Body,
ed between 1501 and 1604, now This year a page has been wrlt- 
lAUvre'^n^a^'00^1^™'*-'1'’6' te“ ‘n the hiatory of Carne6le Tech 
tion offered to the local : wa6 painted during the 6un 
dl Vincenzo at his Weat Firty-fltthj lime 38 membere out or a posBiblf street studio in New York Cltr. nulllier ot 85 ]0 PltlBbe arUet’e hobby Is copylne tb,|bu ond a let. m
^ i °rB’ .‘i ““•¡•ntettalnnn.t "'as arroneod b,hlch has won him wide notico.i Tri_ n th t von» hia nUoam.i»Duplicated colors employed by execution of the original 
piece, dl Vincenzo's Mona bears the warmth and . subtle face enameling in pigmonts distinguishes .the original canvas.
piled by M. M. Visit­
ation Committee
Orr that kept his clas: 
'^“?¿"1 bU8y irom tbe tim0 tb°y stepped off the train until the time they, left tbe city.
On Saturday afternoon, May 14,1 1927, they paused long enough their festivities to hold
It dTN painted particularly as a I serious meeting. Ever on the gift to Newark by the artist. TheM? the same os they were at theby. the artist. The Is 22'inches by 30 in size, smaller than the original.isa. DI Vincenzo studied. . , 4 „ , - -.the Grand Central School“10 °r Cannsl« Tech byiCb under1 «“Uns an enltotr— - -----
Weyman Adams, .the portrali painter; Edmund Qreacei Henry Salem Hubbell, also trait painter. Scarcely 21 old, dl Vlnct
of tbi!ed all the the meml¦ help make another page in
lember or their class in the Car-
closer contact, with 
the alumni, is making a gift of a iry 'convenient little card cases,
first year. Every graduate thli June of lhe Engineering school will receive one of these.
Miss Andrews ot the Alumni Of­
fice would like to have news for' thé next issues of the Alumnus. ; If you have anything of Interest, send 11 Li immediately to her. This will be your chief source of news during tbe summer,, since this iB the last Issue of the Tartan, for the year.
Be sure to get tbe next Alumnus, os it will contain all the latest dirt on Campus Week, including some very good pictures taken on the campus.
The retiring Alumni Editors wish to thank you for your splen- Id co-operation during the year, nd wish you the best of success a the future. Keep up the good rork, and keep In touch with your Jma Mater at all tlmeB.S'long until autumn.
Alumni Association Desires 
Cooperation of .Graduates 
in Advisory Work
20,Under the date of EH questionnaire on courese of study offered In the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College was mailed to graduates and former studei This questionnaire was compiled by the members of tbe Visi Committee, a special committee of 
the Margaret Morrie Association, for the purpose oí ob­taining information and opinioni which, when compiled, will enable the Executive Committee of th«
the Administration rocommenda tions lor changes In the curricula with the hope of .better fitting the 
future graduates of our alma mater for the positions they
Stanley-Davis-Clartfs Strand pre­sents Eddie Cantor, well known Broadway comedian, at his beat ln 
“Special Delivery” Wednesday 
Thursday.T.Milan Rich in “Whispering 
Smith,'' a melodramatic thunder^' bolt, foil of mystery, thrills and spills supported by John Bowers 
id H. B. Warner.Monday and Tuesday Harry Langdon, the king of comedy, in "Long Pants.” The story deals' with a giggling, awkward-, bashful boy in knickerbockers pleading for 
his first pair of long pants.
MANOR
Slanley-Davis,Clark's Manor pro­mts an exceptionally line program »ginning Wednesday and Thurs- iy with • “Don Juan,” starring >hn Barrymore and MaTy Astor. Friday Leatrlce Joy in “Nobody's w." Saturday Adolphe Men- jcu la “Evening Clothes” with a good cast such as Virginia Valli, Louise Brooks and others. Monday and Tuesday Eddie Cantor his latest laugh riot, “Special
SCHENLEY
hold.
Upon co-operation rmer students an<depends entirely
the part of
itord, now Hannafoiduring what may be call pprontiCBBhlp, however Mr. Webb did not lose sight of hi: which had beet insplrod by the lofty Cathedral at 
When h< enough from bis men permit, he went. ] rk and Boston. After two years work and stud? in these cities, young orchltect, not coptont with mediocre progress in Amerl- departed for the Beaux Arts School in Paris. During his studies in PaTls he took rambling jaunts through the French pro- >ugh Italy and England. 
His entire leisure on these trips in studying the best de­signed churches In these countries, Weber's first connection In irica--after his--return --from- )pe, was with the late Pro- >r Desire Despradclle, .of the Architectural School of BoBton 1906- he came to Pitts­burgh to take charge of Important building improvements, nnd start­ed out for himself-. He became assistant professor of architectural design at Carnegie Tech, instruct­ing in the College of Fine Arts for seven years. • He held the presi­dency ot the Pittsburgh Society of ArchlLocLs for Among the prominent buildings Mr. Weber has designed Is tl synod bail and chancery addltli to St. Paul’s Cathedral In- Pitl burgh, considered by experts to an exquisite exposition of t: Gothic Slylce of. architecture: '
painting portraits by appoint-1 it. While he has npt given pub- exhlbltlons, hie paintings may, be seen in many prominent |
iously subscribed dr&d dollar bond, Increased t subscription to a total ot thi dred dollars; four other n
»sntJaJJy a paiate;the old school, -dl ent leans toward warmth and life in portraiture. He follows the technique of Titian or Velasquez, and is at his best when employing
mia s Alumnae Obtain Parry 
tYV". Memorial! Books From Hut
Politics is brad
s. State
irly tbe whole of life; and of no other field of activity Is Bergson's saying that “we create the future" more true. Consequent­ly, for a student to confess that he is uninterested in politics Is equiv­alent to his admitting a lack of interest 'in society, in the develop­ment and eyolutlon of the race, in „the dostlnynklnd.
the ;
vllizatlon all over the wot ndergoing n. transformation lat a period of emergency
unately it is becoming les in than it was to ilnd adul ts at the university and ere imbued with that coi ireoccupatlon with their ovi : affairs, that absorption 1the pui
mship by children 
ccessful'
o'rlous a definition of cit! parents who want the! to be what they call "t (forgetting the wise mat that "nothing fails like Nevertheless, Increasing specializ­ation in higher education is tend­ing to prevent the student from cultivating that sense of.4he_r§L lationshlp between.- diverse mat­ters which is the essence of politi­cal understanding.—The New Stu-
Prisoners at the New Haven county Jail have demanded that compulsory dally chapel attend ance be abolished, basing their ap peal on the fact that Yale Univer­sity officials have recognized the unfairness and cruelty of forcing human being6 to be present at re ligious'service .«very day. Cople >1 the petition were shown by i >risoner whose term at the jail ei plred recently. It was drawn u] In the same language and cou talned the same arguments • tha the Yale undergraduates' used is petitioning the faculty to abandi compulsory chapel attendance.— -The Boston Herald.
A free Mechanical penctl wt given to each student who pre­
sents this ad when pureiiaatnfl fountain pen-at Singer Pen 4 Gift Shop, -Jenkins Arcade.' Ooee your 
old pen need repalrlngf Take It to Singer«. ,
agreed to give $500 in 19 some of the men giving ?30 for 10 years which, with interest, will be $500 In 19 yeare. The to­tal subscriptions of $17,000 will 
It should be or interest to the !he grand'fai
Margaret Morrison Alumni tojtal of $51,000 for the endowment 
istlng of. fund, 
the Committee on the PaTry The committi 
Memorial Fund, it was decided nI Office that they have just started 
that the opportunity to eeCure thelr campBiEn and before tlwy 
.„this collection be g.ven! ^ 
i alumnae of CarnegU 
>f Technology, subject 
Tegular- rules-of the-library, 
ning September, 1927,
Since January, 1927, the books 
tave been in circulation among the 
tudent body and this. 1ms in­creased the usefulness of the col-
f the endeavors of tbe Visitation Committee. Oral com­munications with a limited group of alumhne have indicated that there are many constructive crltt- c/oms which will be valuable If in­corporated in our report 
The committee in charge will ap-
gested for the reutm of the pleted questionnaires Is June 15, which will allow sufficient time for tte compilation of the data tor pre­sentation to the Executive Com­mittee before its retirement.
The personnel of tho Visitation Commltto follow Bingaman, representing the Secre­tarial Department; Lillian Cowan, Social Work Department; Dorothy Grant Hoaford, English Minor De­partment; Sue Smith, General Science Department; Charlotte Science Deportment; Elizabeth
this clacs.
unusually fine screes bill is ; presented tbls week at the Stanley-Davis-CIark Scbenley thea- r, ForbeB street, Oakland district, i Monday and Tuesday, May 23 id 24, "Taxi! Taxi!" a hilarious odern comedy starring Edword verett Horton and Marlon Nixon, will have the beadliner's place on the bill.
“Red Mill," starring Marlon Da­vies, Owen Moore, Karl Dane, Lou- lee Fazenda and George Slgmond, be shown on Wednesday and Thursday, May 26 and 26. The plc- re is a colorful film version of the me stage hit by Victor Herbert td Henry Blossom and retains all the charm end drama'of that light- comic opera ot yore. It^howe Davies in an entirely differ-
i vchaialluiand probably the t entertaining comedienne in history. The beautiful Ma-iBlcalledy'tready opportunity toe in the L*n'd of Dykes. The, plot is an entertaining one and thoroughly amusing, and the “Red glitters with thrills, spec­tacles end laughs.nstance Tolmadke. is starring scintillating comedy vehicle,
md .58; in which she . Is auppoked' by Antonio Moreno, Julanne John* ' ston, Edward Martlndel', Michael Vavitch and Hedda' Hopper and which was. directed. . by Marshall 
Nellan from ia story' written especi­ally for the star by Wallace Smith. - Miss Talmadge Is cast as "Carlbt- ta,H a madcap snatcher of purses and hearts along the Venice Ca­nals. One difficulty foUows anoth- Coninle seeks for thevlove of an American- artist1 who. tries his best to reform the little thief, and who gets hlmseff Into.one entangle­ment after another. Complications fly thick and fast, and the way Connie.wonns herself to victory Is 
refreshingly funny.
Peck Mills and his Band, “synco-. patlng.fools,” and the Wnlllsch Sis­ters, famous radio stars, will enter­tain on tbe stage during tbe week.“Evening Clothes,*' , a sophisti­cated fast moving comedy of man­ners starring Alophe Menjou, Vir­ginia Valli, Louise Brooks and 
Noah BeeVy is to be featured on Monday and Tuesday, May 30 and 31. The story has an unusually fine plot concerning a French gen­tleman .farmer, who discovers on their bridal night that his wife has married him to please her parents. He gives her half his fortune' and follows her to Paris whei/e he re­fashions his Hie to attain the standard she desired for him. He meets with brilliant success at first and then dire failure and the most interesting part of the story comes when he finds true romance and happiness at last.Gladys Delmar and Company will entertain / with songs during the week ot May 30.
Comedy, News Reel and short novelty fitms will complete each separate bill. Programs are changed every Monday, Wedueeday and Friday.
Oakland' 
Savings ft Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
, Reserve System
“The Oakland Bank” 
Capital - $300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00.
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men’s, $6.00—Color: Grey. v 
Women’s, $6.50—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
red.Aafhammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
‘Somebody’s Sweetheart’
The Parry Collection consist! about 350 books. The'iiuclouf this' collodion was Miss Parry's 
library, which was.given to the in­stitute at her death. Fr< time carefully chosen .book been added to the original i and the collection, though is one to be proud of and which many ot our alumnae be interested. The books
about 100 new books The Parry Memorial Fun been increased "to approxii $2,500, but tbe final goal hi yet boen reached. .Each year are book scholarships, granted worthy Margaret* Morrison dents, in the amount of $25 ef These books are the perman propertyscholarships this ed to Miss Joseph English MinoT, and Mi: lis. Senior Social Worl 
It is the aim of the Pan Memorial CommiUee'to make tli Parry Collection a part of the ne' campus library should there, ever
time, the A. E. C. H. Honorary or-! Ul ganization (of tlie ^Alumnae) has f, added materially to this fund. Three, years apledged itself to raise $1,000 the goal is about reached. On May 7th, a benefit bridge party was held In the Faculty dining room of the Carnegie Inn, with 22 tables in play, under the auspices of A.E. C. M. The patronesses tor the benefit were Miss Mary B. Breed, Miss Edith Winchester, Mrs. Ed­mond Esqueri-e, Miss Mary E. Hanna, Miss Ethel Spencer. Miss Elizabeth Demarest, Mrs. Malcolm McLeod, Mrs.- Charles Watklno. Mrs. Lydie M. Moo beth R. Stoner and Mrs.Wappat The class of 1919 voted $60 to the Parry Memorla which action took place at thi Women’s banquet on May 13. 'Mis:
She was jusl But oh! wha Her. hair waj
Who dressed suprer he rented his TUX from
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
honoi
graduated elders in this buslnes!»vernmont, and they should ptay it. People are all too apt to confine tbelr political activities to parlor indlgation sessions, leaving matter of voting to whoever the powers can get to the polls, arid students aTe as heir to this, failure as others. When students to Journey to their home towns to cast their ballots, they could hardly be blamed for leaving the voting to the folks back home, thé semi-literate classes, and the vote-Bellera, but now- that the mountain will come to Mahomet and Mahomet can-cast--his vole trom bis own study room, via
. STANLEY-DAMANOR
VIS-CLARK’S
STRAND
Wednesday and Thursday 
May 25 and 26“Don Juan”
JOHN BARRYMORE 
MARY ASTOR
Wednesday and Thursday ' 
May 25 and 26
‘Special Delivery’
EDDIE CANTOR
Friday, May' 27
“Nobody’s Widow”
LEATRICE JOY
Friday and Saturday 
May 27 and 28
“WHISPERING
SMITH”
with LILLIAN RICH“Evening Clothes”
ADOLPHE MENJOUMonday and Tuesday,
May 30 and 31
HARRY LANGDON. 
—in—“Long Pants”
, EDDIE CANTOR in 
“Special Delivery”
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
• STANLsEY-DA VIS-CL ARK'S'SCHENLEY ES" =5theater . *53.3.
Direction Stanley Company of America. Continuoue2to 11 P/M. >Most Beautiful Neighborhood Theater in Plttsburflh. 
WEDNESbAY AND THURSDAY, MAY 25 AND 2« i“RED MILL”
MARION DAVIES
“1
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY} MAY 27 AND '23
CONSTANCE TALMADGE INifenus of Venice"
ON
THE“
STAGEPECK MILLS BAND BFF
and the Wallisch Sisters WEEK
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MAY 30 ANt} 31
ADOLPHE MENJOU“ Evening Clothes ”
C0“EDL. ^ NOVELTIESPlenty of Parkins Space

---------------------------------------------------

xuigw^MÄY^vmr;THI CAHN1QI» TAKTAMyAttrTwm««
ÇîM^RSSU TOFT.CPrg
UNSUCCESSFUL YEAR
baseball Mayv Regain Former 
Place -As-Spring Sport.
CARNEGIE PLACES 
THIRD IN "BIG 4” 
MEET AT WEST VA.
The LftoroBee players at Carne- 
fie bare put op tbelr* sticks fitter 
a: comparatively ujsaceessful *on. " It lfl ettll und«cld£d whether 
this game wlll .be-continued nezt year as an inter-closa sport, or will be discontinued" in I&vor of base­
ball.Little spirit'was ehownin La'- crosae this year, especially by tbe freshmen- or sophomores. It 
this Inch of .Interest coupled very unfavorable weather which caused this season to be less suc­cessful than, last years. The fall- xue to make. this gurae a varelty 8port somewhat discouraged the older players, and. Lacrosse was only maintained thie year as an intor-class contest mainly in the hope tbst some nearby schools would also take up this game.
It Js regretted that Lacrosse can­not gain a good foothold at Carne­gie, because as a game it has no peer, either to play''or to witness. It Is a fast and highly interesting sport; He many fine points^ de­mands as miich, and even more, ftidii end endurance than football. Penn State Is tbo nearest school having a Lacroese-team; therefore the expense ot transporting the of men, who com- t team, Is so prohibitive that it would be too great of a, financial burden to maintain a varsity team, unless, a number ot local -schools should'Adopt the game.
It is a probability that a better athletic field will be available nest year. If such is the case, base­ball may resume its old position a< Carnegie's chief sport. Baseball li 
not on exceptionally popular sport at college, but this hardly explains the lack of enthusiasm .for La- croBse, which is a contest more on the order ot .football.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing
' Last Saturday the first Big Fow 
track, meet was run off at Morgan- town, being won by a good mar­gin by Pitt.- The Panthers scored 103 points, followed by West Vir­ginia with .81%, while Carnegie took. third place with 24 points, and the Presidents grabbed. last place with 14ft points.
The weather was excellent for a track meet, .and the track was in wonderful condition. Both 
these factors combined with- the group oC stars assembled iron best of the Tri-State District i tbe first meet a great success.ipetltlon was dose and the runners were 'as a ^vhole In pink of condition, hence some of the surprising times, established this little get-together.State records were broken in the 220-yard low hurdles and tbe ilng broad jump, while excellent lines were recorded In the 440 md tbe mile. Nimic again broke the Carnegie sbot put record but unable to get more than a JLourth place. A fair crowd assem­bled to watch, the athletes, and ince this was. the first yea his meet, It might even be sa ie a record crowd.
Carnegie was represented In the ueet by a good team, but they rcre not good enough, and though they put up a grand and glorious light they did not place any met higher than third place in any event Monroe and Lockard were Carne gle’s high point men, each' annex log five points, the former getting third in- pole vautt/ and fourth ii the broad jump, while tbe latte took a fourth In the 120-yard high hurdles and third In the 220-yard low hurdles. . ,Islanding event as far a Carnegie was concerned, was th semi-finals of the 220-yard low hui Lockard won the event b the outstanding time of 25 4-5 see­ds, equaling the Carnegie cord tor 220-yard low hurdles 
n on a curved track. On the re­turn trip from Morgantown, thi track team elected ^orkard as car tain for the coming year. Lockard' iber of the senior class In Architecture. He Is a member Scarab, Architectural honorary, lember.of the band, and a me sr >of Clef Club, musical honor*
Saturday ex' Morgai
wllh Lockard. CmThe meet was tbe final one of the season ft________________It.the closing of the college careers of several of the seniors, includ-
Mayflower 7218
FLOYD M. JACOBS
380e</2 FORBES STREET 
Oakland s Pittsburgh, Pa. 
'Around the Corner from 
Forbes Field"
-YOU*
Thé Graduating Seniors
Are facing the question
Of
"WHAT TO DO 
NEXT”
Seme of you are itell fixed; you hkve a family bu&ineu to work with. It will be to your interest • to think «bout the new develop ment. Group Ituurance, which will fet & ftttor^of increuing irapor-
bujinea to ita employees. * Seme of you tune a iuiiti tent.: going to follow way or making sure that you will finuh the course of life you have chosen is to take advantage of Annuity,Endowment,and Straightlife'Ituurance 
So'mt of you ha» wethtd for your education and must earn as . much money as you can.^squidcly
.andas possible. The selling of ]; Insurance gives the moat i quictest return for hard work, uu offen the greatest freedom for original enterprise. It is not a pujfi-button Job. The John Han­cock is looking for men like you Acd would like to hear from you.
Write to us in regard to any of these points. We shall answerC
 inquiries without any. ob* on to you. .Address ' the INQUIRY BUREAU.
MORfc (¿QRONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before the days of Coronatllege * hand thing la typeiten by hand. Now-
ribbon—more
other make* of portables Combined. Come In and see the:latest model. It la the last , word In portable type- writer«. .Standard fourrew keyboard, w twelve’ yard la machine reami ly ether poriabl« ily ««0.00. -*
.ÇaïeCitB u chFrs inotfO . 
b ilh,SlUT LER’
\ M) 
Ì
Heot SignAlpha Epsilon, social fraternity.The emaiietr tbe ethe track meet are as follows:120 high, hurdles, College final- Won by Morrison, West Virginia; second, Maxwell, West Virginia; third, Fyock, Pitt; fourth, Lock ard, Carnegie Tech; fifth. Smith, W. & J. Time—15 3-5 secondi (New state record.)' 100-yard dash, semi-finals, first heat—Won by Wibecan, Pitt; ond. Long, Pitt; third, ffimn West Virginia; fourth, Harris, W. & • J. • Timè^lO eéconds fiat.Semi-finals, second -heat —Wc 
by Zevely,;West Virginia; aecön. Milne, Carnegie Tech; third, Gold­stein, Pitt; fourth, Phillips, Wei Virginia. Time—10 1-5 ' seconds.440-yard dash, Colleges, finals— Won by Montgomery, West glnla; second, Bowen, Pitt; .third, Wick, Pitt; fourth, Cottrell. Virginia; fifth, Peck, Carnegie Tech. Time— 50 2-5 seconds. (New state record.)100-yard dash, Collages, flnals- Won by Wibecan, Pitt; secon 
Zeveley, West Virginia; third, Goldstein, Pitt; fourth, Milne, Ca; negle Tech; fifth, Simmons, Wes Virginia. Time — 9.9 eecondi (New state Tecord.)16-pound' shot, Colleges, flnals- Won by Welch, Pitt; second, Archi­bald, Pitt; third, Linn, Pitt; fourth, Nlmtc,-Carnegie Tech; fifth, Robb, Pitt: Distance—43 feet 8% Inch.Pole vault. College, finals—W by.Picltard, Pitt; second, McG< Pitt; third, MQnroe,. Carnet Tech; fourth, Brinker, PiSchmidt, Pitt and Ferguson, W. & J. tied for fourth. Height—12' feet 6.Inches.One mile run. College, finals- Won by Adams, Pitt;' second, Stender, - West Virginia, third
Gouski, Pitt; Campbell, Cäxriegi« Tech; Fifth, Haz.2lett, W. & JI 2-6.i, finals — Marquis, Pitt, first; Stender, West Virginia, second; Johnson, Carnegie Teel third; Marsh; West Virginii fourth; Carson, Carnegie T^ch,fifth. ..............yard low l semi-finals—First heat: Morrison, Wek Virginia, first; Smith, W. & J., second. Time—26 4-6 Second heat — Lockart, Carnegie
TJmia, secon« e-¿26 4-£4-5 . s:onds.Javelin throw, colleges, finals- Welch, Pitt, first; Taylor, West Virginia, second; Carlin, W. & third; Pickard, Pitt, fourth; Aulta, West Virginia, fifth. Distance, 175 feet 1 Inch.(Llppart, Pitt, won third place in the first heat an4 automatically receives fifth placé tn finals)
College, high jump, finals—Alli­son, W. & J., and Aultz, Weal glnia, tied for first; Peters,' third; Williams, Pitt; Goldstein, PLtt, and Luty Carnegie Tech, tied for fourth.. Height, 5 feet 8V4 •inches.220-yard dash, colleges, s finals, first heat — Wibecan,, first; .Zeveley, West Virginia, ond; Meine, Carnegie Tech, third. Time; 22 2-5 seconds.Second heat—Bowen, Pitt, first; Montgomery, West Virginia, sê ond; Potter, W. 6 3., third. Tim 22 4-5 „seconds.College, half-mile run, flnals- Roy, Pitt, -first; Buvinger, Wei Virginia, second; Morgan, Wei
College finals—Morrjeon. West Vir­ginia, first; Maxwell. . West 
glnla, second; . Lockart. - Carnesle Tech. third: Smith. ' W- & fourth; Llppart. Pitt, fifth. Time. 25 1-5 seconds ¿new state record.) v oU00mt0 . ^ow,.. finalsWelch: 
Pitt, Urst; Kirchner. West Virginia;
On the Plaid Screen
FREDERICK D. WOODS-
’ in the Big Four track meet The Mountaineers placed
outstanding individual stars, but i tbelr competitors do some'high and'fancy stepping t Practically every man who made the trip placed ii-d and Munro doing perhaps the best work.
and Julius Johnston, :
.And althoughifootball season Is - decide whether next»¿I-months' distant, the next t
Coming home on tbe train from lhe “Big Four” track meet on S urday evening. Bill Lockard was elected to captain the track te t year. His selection comes as a reward for two years of h: •k, during which time he has been- of immeasurable assistance Coach Halferty. BUI has never been an outstanding star, but he 1 >ntly good, tying wllh Munro for Carnegie high po
* *5 4» + * * * + * + + +'* + * *
* TENNIS CLUB FEES . *4* ' • , ¦ TV —---- • •• - \ * _«*¦
* jan« 1$ to 9eptember i6* *Day and Night • School stu- v
* dent«, $2.00. *•i* Day and Night School alum* ? OmO sUp d$.LL. . 8 P T$O•5» September 15 to June m$. *}•* .Day and Night School stu- *•§¦ dents, 12.00 .?.' Day and Night School alum* *
* nl,-«.00. ??J* Courts can not be need with* ? + out Tennis Club card. Fees* payable at Graduate .Mana- ** ger’s-Office. ?
(Continued i
with Pitt was postponed <tqost thrilling mal - ' 'and Caffei .11% 12-10.
Bucknell team, showed thaï
mid and Caffee, and Dai
Rudlsell, former Carnegie
i in Point Marion, Pa.
>ek, and defeated Oberlln.
i lettvlDg here by
second; Lewis, West Virginia, third; Archibald, Pitt, fourth;i, W. & J., fifth. Distance- 144 test 2 inches.¦yard dash, finalB — Wibecan, Pitt, first; Bowen, Pitt, second;itgomery, West Virginia, third; Zeveley, West Virginia, fourth; 
Pottor, W. & J., filfth. Time—22 seconds fiat.Running broad Jump, finals— First, Taylor. West Virginia; sec- ond, Welch Pitt; third, MontgOm- ^Vest Virginia; fourth, Mon­roe, Tech;- fifth, Aultz, West Vir­ginia. Distance — 22 feet 10% inches. (New West Virginia rec­ord.)immer throw, finals — First, i, Pllt; second, Gwynn, Pitt; third, Keefer, West Virginia; routU. Monroe, West Virginia; fifth, Hogue, West Virginia. Die- 
:—152 feet 3 Inches.
Sailing of the Swan]
-------;— /(Continued From Page One.) 
tbe apostles in Galilee—they hoist snow brigbt sails, and pulling up the anchor with holy solem ill out in the pursuit of happli In tbe rainbow the arc beingtbet drcle, ::ultlois the snbol•nlly. Essentially I where fi •aged t
Ives theturlty, college has becon hospice .where Youth r< final impulsion to ne weary Alpine climb that •supreme, success and sei Approaching the altar. Youth kneels in divine subllmatlou accppts the chalice of Life which holds within It the sacred con nlon of experience vital to the < of human existence. All car with it the poignant assuranci
witnessed ia tbe. shadow of cross. When the/golden thread ot iito. has tarnlBhed and worn frail, the focus falls and all becomes dim'; the echo supplants the dis­tant .splash ot the fountain and fall, and unforgotteu fragrance ot crushcd flowers becomes distilled with a thousand tears—all swln ffliugly suffused, rising in the ros vapor ot four-square"hopes out t ail unknown pool and vanishing a swiftly with the last twitch, a dreams- diluted withlolet iI intoff-borr
M. 'M. ORGANIZATIONSADVISE FORMATION OF
SCHOLARSHIP BODY
held >esterd :nt chairman a r further.
question about was voted to
ing of the Tartan staff was to I called with tbe object of obtainln the staff’s opinion.
I plan the establlshmei what amounts to practically umnl University of Michigan. I do not Intend to allow another pe son to. graduate. We wiki give the) a'diploma, but we will not let thei get away from us.Tbe.university can help In doing this by presenting in interesting form—on paper in is possible—the u: ealets; its myriad activities in the field of investigation, e and research; its efforts individual, students by more care­ful personnel methods; its dorm­itory problem; its collection ot “menta} chlldreh” of great men— Its libraries; its Investigations. Hundreds of items of this sort should be presented in tbe form of a “Catalogue of the Alumni Uni­versity of Michigan.” ...all this you will have a chance he development of a mental hobby,-an interest in some phase ¿t the. university’s . activities. If you will express Interest In one or njore subjects, we will follow with more detailed information. For this service the alumni could pay an annual' tuition fee, according
ie Interest Is developed, be naturally provided in the form of tontrlbutions. at annual or other Intervals, for the support of one ore projects in which the in-
TARTAN NETMEN 
DEFEAT OBERLIN, 
LOSE TO BUCKNELL
Bain again prevented the Tartan
itmen from playing their regular 
schedule of last week. The var­
sity were forced to give up tbolr 
match with Pitt while the Plebes 
canceled contests with shadyslde High and the Freshmen of W. and 
J. and Pitt
Friday, May 20, on the home courtB, Carnegie was defeated by Bucknell 5-1. ' The match marked by several hard fought sets but the only victory won by Carnegie was In the singles whoa Caffeo defeated Philip 6-3, 6-3. Tech played bard but superior ten­nis gave Bucknell the victory.
Saturday, May 21, the team was more successful and defeated Ober­lln 4-2. The weather was ideal and the talc sized crowd in attendance saw a very interesting matqli. Thi first doubles went 12-10 and wai one of the best exhibitions of ten nls given on the local court this
The Plebes bad scheduled a match with Wllklnsburg High to be played at Carnegie. Wilkins- burg, however, failed to appear with a full team. This, It si gives the glebes a technical vic­tory.Next Monday, Washington ant Jefferson will invade the Tartai courts and It Is quite likely thi W. and J. Freshmen will also be presented to play the last match of the Plebes schedule. These the only matches schedulod for .the
gas serves aB fuel but pump­ing and heating «equipment is oa the ground tor using oil and tar as fuel, and Is now be­ing installed. The Mechanical Laboratory also baa a gas producer that studies can be made with iducer gas. Arrangements are furthermore bolng made to remove - flared section which lies between tbo burner, proper and the combustion tunnel and rhlch Is plainly visible nt the right hand end of the picture an^ to re­place It either by parts of high perature furnaces or else by grates and stokers for the purpose of studying the combustion of coal md of tbe gases rising from the fuel bed.
Is believed that this is combustion tunnel installed ly university or collego In the United States.
Bhould' be particularly useful testing the capacity ot oil burners under different condltloi md for similar work in addition to the teaching for which it 1 tended. ' The. combustion equip- Carnegie Tech should pri> 
duce val&uble research data.
tell Iweek.
0 SlnglRudleill (Bucknell) defeated Schmid (Tech) 6-1, 6-3McCaekey (Bu,cknell) defeated Hooper (Tech). 6-2, 6-1.Frost (Bucknell) defeated Gl< (Tech) 7-5, 4-6, 6-4.Caffee (Tech) defeated PI (Bucknell) 6-3, 6-3.Doubles.RudisiU and McCaskey defeated 
Schmid and Hooper, 6-Frost and Zortmaa defeated Gloser and Caffee, 6-2, 6-4.
vCarnegle 4—Oberlin 2.
Singles-Hooper (Tech) defeated Haw! (Oberlin) / 6-1, 6-3.Caffeo (Tech) defeated Boor! 
(OheTUn) «-S, 6-0.Schmid (Tech) defeated Less' bltz (Oberlln) 6-2, 7-5.Danton (Oberlln) defeated Tci (Tech) 6-3, 6-3.Doubles.Danton and LesaenbUz defeated Schmid and Caffee 6-2, 12-10.Carpenter and Glaser defeated Hawley and Boorbls 6-0, 6-4.Carnegle-Wilklnaburg, Default.
state <if New Yori ment <Tfce
held iu the Carnegie Music Hall. The procession will start at 9:45 a. m. on Tuesday, June 7. Thi marshalls will form the column: in the first floor corridors of th< respective buildings. Candidates for Masteîs and Professional der grees in all colleges are to ai ble in the first floor corrid< Industries Building, immediately behind the faculty. The exerc in Carnegie Music Hall will c mence at 10 a. m. All gradu; must be present.From 12:30 to 1:30 o'clock, lm-
ment exeTCi^es, 
lowed by a luncheon will be'gr by President Baker, the Trustees, Directors, and Deans to the bers of the graduating class, affair will he held in the College of Fine Arts, Seniors being invitee to bring friends and parents. Th< commencement ball will also he held'' in the Fine Arts Building, 9, 'clock, Monday evening, Jui
ireptlop - tol­
lt is> be informal.
(Continued BYom Page One.)At the Assembly, May' 10, forty- five members of the Builders’ Ex­change were present and witness­ed the presentation ot the checks. After the assembly they were guosts of the Department of Build­ing Construction at a luncheon held in the Carnegie* Inn. Elchleay. :,P. E.. .Cochrane., and 
Director. Jewett were the speakers.
(Continued from Page One) 
ne of respect among his asso­ciates; and his gallant manner, Is whispered, has been the cause iauy a maiden to wilt within enchanted tower—which, of ie is not his fault In the least, those who know him better, Walter Rogers is called “Beau”— how well this fits him: with hie perfectly chiseled profile, his1 ex­quisite : ssrtoriol taste, bis curly rn hair, not forgetting his i and smiling personality. Schenley, no «doubt, will always r as a background to happy memories, and to this true had “with manly grace' id our hopes that he will lance fame in the-elneme. with th< deftness of an arrow well directed by the will ot tho Immortal gods.
(Continued UWWkm-pUge One) Infantry'Drill Regs. 1911, Ge nan Scientific Header—Gore.
Le Cid. Bruner. PI. and SphlrJcal 
Trig.—Bauer and Brooke. 
Physics—Stewart. 
•Also^ntfteboobs of all kinds, 
gloves; and ; inany' sundry, -items.
It yon have loat.any of tbe aboTa 
Items, please call for-them Imme­
diately at Lost and Found Office; 
Room. 3, Central Building. : Be­
tween Post Office and •Store Room.
Camel is the modern favorite
MODERN smokers make known 
their preference. And they call for 
Camels. Never in any age was 
there a smoking favorite like Camel 
is today. Camels understand every 
mood of the modern smoker. 
Camel mildness and smoothness 
are supreme with the critical taste 
of present-day people.
A purchase of Camels brings 
you the choicest Turkish and Do­
mestic tobaccos. Blended by skill 
into the world's most popular
smoke, and the best. Quality un» ' 
approached, is the distinguishing 
mark of Cameh
No matter what the price, there 
is no better cigarette than Camels. 
Smoké them as frequently as you 
please. You will never be left with 
a cigaretty after-taste. Camels 
aren’t made that way. That is why 
modem smokers everywhere de­
mand them. That is why this age 
has discovered the tobacco phrase» 
VHove a Cornell”
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALBM, N. C
He’s Still I Telling the Judges
I “The speaker for 
the affirmative, 
ladies and gentle- 
:n, will be Mr. 
M. Laffoon.”
I That line was not 
I unfamiliar to stu- 
| dent groups at the 
i. w*n University of Mis- 
i few years ago.
. Now the undergraduate debater 
of other days is tne Design Engi­neer in the Turbo-Generator Sec­
tion of the Power Engineering 
Department. He is in his eleventh ' year at the Westinghouse Company.
LafFoon today is the builder of 
the fastest things that go, electri­
cally. For those intricate high-speed 
machines, he must not only act as 
designer, but must often assist in 
selling, and must look after the service when problems^ arise in / 
Operation. Because the designer is 
. the man who knows, he is the “speaker for the affirmative.” 
"Honorable judges” are fact-seek- 
¦ ing engineers of electric light and 
- power companies.
fT “What'S the future with a large organisption?” That is what college men want to know, 
>jt of ail. The question is best answered by the accomplishments 
of others with similar training and like opportunities. This is one oj a 
series of advertisements portraying the progress at Westinghouse oj typical college graduates of the * campus some five—eight—ten years. Write for booklet reprinting the
Out of a clear sky one day West­
inghouse called for a high-speed generator for use in commercial 
transmission of radio messages. 
There was no such machine. Laf- 
foon designed one. Then, through an unexpected ..change-in a. trade 
situation,-.'«the machine was not used. Did/jtigo to the scrap heap? 
Read and see. .
Industry had been seeking a 
better way to melt expensive metal 
of high heat resistanc^-ajuminum, 
platinum, certain allpy steels, and 
the like; Ordinary smelting meth­
ods couldn't be used. Properties . 
had to be kept unchanged; and the 
great heat liquefied the ordinary 
crucible as well as the metal. LaF- foon’s discarded radio-generator 
was found to offer an ideal'appli­cation to a new high-frequency 
induction furnace for melting those special metals; and so Laffoon de-' 
signed that machine.
You ¦ can measure the advance 
in high-speed turbo-generator ap­
paratus by comparing the models of 1918 (when LafFoon entered the 
particular field to which he has 
contributed), with' those of 1926. 
Then 25,000 KVA was some ma­
chine, Now,* at 62,000. KVA, ho 
limit is set on the future.
High-speed machines must be fitted to the individual needs_ of 
customers. After understanding 
what the customer wants, the de-„ 
sign engineer must determine the size, weight, dimensions and per-. 
formance, depending on voltage, 
frequency and speed of the instal­
lation. Then he must “follow 
through.”
Men who “follow through” in 
any phase of electrical engineering 
may have confidence in their ca­
reers at Westinghoyse.
Westméhouse

---------------------------------------------------

3&$Mglt3bt«a
¦ PHONE KATFLOWkB MM • :• PaMUM on«* «T»ir mek 4«rlng tb* «riles» ymx tv mriU*» mdutAai Cftntal« leitltuta of Tcehsa}oc. totutd 1* tlM • iPltttbnigh.Pogt Office-«.»arad-eUa» mtHat.______. . .. .
EDITORIAL. STAFF '
Editor-In-Chlaf  ..........Merrill HolllnsheadManaging Editor..;................. ...............Sam WWMews Editor........ ..............................Francis Kolb -- Athletic Editor......................'. .Frederick D. Woods '
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Ellenor Tallmadge Robert M. PewRussell Balllngor Harold JacobsonRalph Hitchcock Barto Grlfflss...A -B. Fisher Eugene ‘Scanlon ' ''!¦W. Bernard ¦*
JUNIOR EDITORS MereiJIth Stomp MHton'Cohen -Fenton fUnn Jean.Roy
- ; ALUMNI^EDITORS . : •. -Margaret Russell .. . . ' Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS '/V 
•Florence McLaughlin ; Helen Reed..;•' Josephine Clark • •John Schneider i- » •
• .REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Bob Toohg - . Clyde Park ,.Joseph G. RlUer Miriam Margolie -W. Hendérao^ Harry Widoá Henry Búnker . -CatharlBe^Soyd Cyril Letzeíter Ruth Bramson . Sid: Warner,.W. H. Worland Eugene Jarema Fani Droste - •William McNeil Helen Whltehill W. ------Thoffias’Liippert“ ze Hyman Levinson • Dorothy Ray W.. J
¦\ BUSINESS STAFFBusiness Manager..........................Arnold Perretoa• Circulation Manager........ ............SopowitsAdvertising
Jamea Seibert- : . T. R-.Zenk R. Nob
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS •
; L. Sacks G. -W. Brahmst J. R. Brown“I Kandell A. leplltz H. L. MarshallC. E. BlaBGM. Mallnlck
Garland-Kerr C. Tompsett S.FIegenbai
¡the legislative and judicial organization which 
_ meets practically every situation. And its
A. Frank_ • G. O-.Harbison S. Blneatone members elected by tbe students themselves,r c. Tompsett S-.Flegenbanm their actions should come under the closest 
12. isdofirice Boiidioe. 00« Eou^-MomUr scrutiny of the^ entire campus.*•, i2:8o-irio. Papei node op Friday. i2 iao-6:w>. Freedom of the-press, on this campus, then,
N" £^^bata#^nt “rt^»*o?^rt^o«oB means more than Young America in Revolt, oribmday. • •• . , > , the permission to publish a dirty joke. It is
—^the function of the Carnegie press, both sati- 
EDFFOft’S r rical and legitimate, to give full notice of allTT-_.__.f_. legislation of the governing body, to commentOOTVTl” .NT,,- . tfrom .time .to time on. any particular piece of
It is of course with a feeling of Tegret that .action which seems either vicious or commen- 
tho-ieods of one staff tuna'the editorial reins dntory. The freedom, to do this should beover to their successors; forits great sport to ¿stoutly contended "for. Milton pointed out, in
fool arounjl..with, words,.to ¡get one's stuff to a famous plea against freedom, that the press- 
look good" in print,' to attempt to stimulate Should have entire freedom, should be allowed 
thoughtand'conurient; 'The new staff, though, Ho say anything it pleased,. and that it should 
whoever, they-may be ,(for it’s still a.secret), .be answered. -Generally speakingj the press iswill be able to run things equellyas well s 
old, so we -wish them *the best of luck and co- 
operation. ; ‘ '.TJo stimulate thought and) com­
ment," by,the, way, is worth, writing a para­
graph or two'about. " '
jhtier than the people it chances to single 
out for comment; yet at CSrnegie things are 
more equalized. The right to give personal 
opinion, suported by testimony and facts, 
should be allowed' the student press on this 
campus.
"When one opens a'formal harrangue about 
“freedom of the press,’’it is usually distrusted
as just ariother manifestation of Youth in v„UJJVJlj vw tllv 14V„
Revolt. • At almost any other campus than this tution, -with its referendum and recall, will
one the administration keeps its eyes and ears take care of such hasty actions as was the re-
wide opened for any expression of opinion, oij - moval of Mr. Sullinger from the nosition of 
any act of editorial maneuvering which smacks editor-in-chief of “Puppet.” If a test case
of. criticism, or even for a hint of honest .in- arises next year, in which the council acts in a
•cjuiry into accepted traditional campus life, summary fashion, giving judgment upon their
But at Carnegie, thank God, we can say that, own legislation, more consideration should be
this year at least, the governing administra- - given' to the idea of the creation of a disin- 
tive officials have grown up with the student terested faculty or student committee,1 to act as
'boflyi—They have kept-what often appears to juty when an unfair decision is handed down.be their none to efficient hands off the entire 
extra-curricular system of student affairs; 
There is a Discipline Committee of some sort, 
but except in cases of stress, it acts only i ’
In other words, the powers of the central gov­
erning body are so supreme that men may be 
promoted or demoted without sufficient cause. 
Politics, in its ugliest sense, may ‘N advisory way. If s^mc one^ were to have the council action,' and yet the bulk of the stu-
affront to ridicule in a- public way any le'gisla- ' dent body may he unaware of any irregularity,
tion of such a committee through some such aid worse still, uninterested in them, 
organ as the "Tartan,” his meager effort . In the last two issues of the "Tartan” the
. + . - . P ignoring ears. This, is the new Council Constitution has. been printed. Itstate ol affairs on thie campus. And students haii been ratified by the'student body, and is
of many a larger institution would be more thus valid fir 1927-28. Student* should readv than willing to exchange, placcs withthus valid for 1927-28. Students should read 
it, and grow interested in local government. Keeping in touch with all legislation, combinedWith this disinterested faculty supervision with inaistanc.e upon fairness and good judg- 
has come a stronger, better organized student ments will make a wise student much wiser, control. The Student. Council at Carnegie is M. T. H.
Ten years ago the freshman .was 
initiated Into campus lite by one 
grand brawl. He was treated like 
& savage by savages’ and came to 
the natural conclusion that a fresh­
man at college was the least de­
sirable of mankind.;...By the time 
. the freshman attended his first 
class he was broken In body and 
-;in spirit.
This year the freshman was 
,treated as the most popular per- 
!eon at the university. Misers, 
dances, and assemblies were giv­
en for his sole benefit. He waB 
welcomed by the president and the 
deans. The . churches made him 
feel at home and the iraUrnitles prized his friendship.
sincere- introduction to college to- . day than by that of ten years ago!___Instead of carrying a bruisein his heart, he has. thankfulness toward his newly made home. In­stead of being a jackass to per­form for the others’ amusement, he Is'made a prince in a strange principality.—The Daily Iowan.
On this droll and delightful planet, this thlDg is most surpris­ing: that a man can shoe a horse, shingle a roof, graft a treev set a .tiré, dress a deer, .set up a -wind­mill, “make a boat and . sail it, too1'—that such a man should be classified as “uneducated.” . Such labeling, even when jnade by a two-S6ted sophisticate, bêtrâÿs a touching confusion of mind; and It becomes fantastic when-made, “to the amazed consideration of men and angels,", by a male soprano who Is bewildered, dismayed jind lost when he ventures beyond the hearing of a policeman’s whistle, who 1« unable to confront the smallest business of life without summoning the aid of “the yokel- jy.’^—rE. M. Rhodes in Southwest Review.
: “Is your husband much of a provider, Mallndy?”“He ain’t, nothin’ else, Ma'am. He's gwlne get some new furniture providin’ be gets the money; he’s gwlne to ¿et the money providin’ he gets the work; he’s gwln$ to work proyl<Jln*rthe'Jobeulte-hlin.~J never- ------------------1 in£U my.iuch a pr< .'’—Exchange.
Percy—’What's the smell In the' library?'' -•Val— Its the /lead alienee they "ìteep ihefe?—Yala'Ttecortr'T——
. AFRAID. TO BE MODERN
(Manitoba Student)..
Educationalists today are .faced 
with a problem that vitally con­
cerns not only the future of our institutions of learning,' but of'our very civilization Itself, end a prob­lem which offers so many difficul­ties of solution and so ¡li^ny dif­ferent angles of approach that It causing concern among educe-Canada and thetlonal leadei United States. The choic technical or vocational training constitutes the problem. What Is tbe true function of a university? To teach a trade and prepare the student for the position he is to occupy in the business or proies» slonal world, or to provide a gen­eral cultural atmosphere and en­courage a mental development that will stamp one ae “an educated
The practical man and tbe old- time classicist approach the ques­tion from two entirely different angles and both offer so many convincing arguments that It can almost/be assumed that there must be a place for both types of educa­tion in the average provincial or state Institution. In the natloB to the south, which has frequently been described as "ultra modern” and whose emblem has at various been Interpreted as the sign
of the, application of more modern ethode of Instruction and practical subjects.' The economics course, as it is at present consti­tuted,- offers very little of per­manent value to those who plan to participate in some phase economic life. The same may be said a valithought, but their practical value
e conservative educational- lome of them at least, view ¡very indication of-horror
of the dollei beginning to lean trainingand
ersltles ¦arde voeâ-
ipeclallzatlon as the bi it preparing tbe youth of the land o participate in the affairs of the iatlon. Always accustomed to do things on the large scale, Ameri­cana have incorporated “Big Bus)-
tlonal
In Canada these methods hav.C. generally been frowned upon and the question naturally arises, “Are we afraid, to be modern?” Voca­tional training in Canadian Col­leges haa, with one or.two excep­tions,.,.been ^limited to jnstrucliojilif la.W,j raedi^ine^enclnoo’ririg^agTj;. <^ltur^./? pharmacy*.,
ancy. Some ; One or two; univer­sities have added1 schools of com­merce, but they are still very ele­mentary, and we have no schools .of Journalism, higher co.urses,'} In finance and banking, norXwittTone exception;. school^ oi. lfietracttorila teaching. • •• « ' f"
What ie becoming mdrf’ evljenti however, is the - .depreciation^ in recognized/value of a Bachelor of Arte degree.' The arts curriculum, statisticians and “successful*-busi- ¦ieeU-hadlyJn.needJ
with
mptslakeiveraUleshie fashionable trade schools. Outbursts are heard' every now and then at the folly of dropping tbe classics as .compulsory Art subjects. One prominent Toronto lawyer ventured to remark that since the classics were no longer :ompulsory subjects In the Arts :ouTse,'that degree no longer pos­sessed any educational significance and the students were now noth- nore than Idlers wasting their and the country’s money, opinions of this type of edu­cationalist may- not be entirely disregarded no matter how :’oil may disagree with them. Most 
>f these.. gentlemen have I telvea been “through the md do not speak without the wls- lom of experience. Still, i large extent their aversion to tlonal training may be set down as due to their mistrust of the ex- ¡me modernity and their atten- n might well be directed to the •rds of Horace, their own mas- ’, who once wrote, “I am Indig- nt when I hear something abused not because rudely o: "acefully framed, but simply be- mee -it Is modern.”
Canadian universities cann< ford to be classed as “afraid i
can they afford established first examining .Wisely the_advantagos of the n<A reasonable compromise belw< ie two schools might be effected nd moderate changes Introduced lat would generally improve landard of education in cvei
.. ---be expected to, devote four years of their life to training whl< ‘ not benefit them in their struggle for existence.iptlon
andafforisake her cultural developm devote her undivided .attention ‘ digging for'¿old^;7. '
More than 350 inmates of t! state prison and reformatory ha^ taken correspondence courses fro the University of Wisconsin Ex­tension iDlvlali
Answers To, Ask Me Another
1. The Campus53%
.2. Forty-four states are repr lented In tbe student body.
3. Approximately 18 religloi 
ire. represented In th* studei 
bedy.
There are five major depart­ments in the College of Fine Art!
6. There are seven men's an. 14 women's dormitories on the Cai negie Campus.-- ••
' 6. Carnegie has 15 national fra ternltleB.
Carnegie has four local fra terni ties.The dimensions of the Gyi floor are 90x175 feet.
MUSIC
ELLA SCANLON
Recital' of 'cello muelc, beater. Sunday evening, Me Miss Ella Scanlon, Lucille Burrell e piano. Tbe program:I.J. S'. Bach....Suite III in C majc Prelude Sarabande Bouree I and II GlgueUnaccompaniedII.Romberg...Concerto II in D majc dante grasioso Salnt-Saens.. Allegro Appassionato.
Brahms. ^Sonata In E mlnor. Op. : Allegro non troppo Allegretto quasi Minuetto Allegro (Fugato)
The LitUe Theat when Ella Scanlon tire .'cello program
and appreclativi
played an en- Sunday night,
the fine play-
The Rainbow—D. H. Lawrence. The Rainbow'* Is ah epic of Im­
potence. Its people are like tiny things engulfed and straggling in great .sea; : but. . no matter 
how far the tide carries them, or -hat depths they, descend, they continue to live, for tbe sea which flows over them and through them is the sea of lire. “Struggle”— Is the word for it All 1he characters in the story are strug­gling blindly and unceasingly to ittain their desires: and almost all of them fall. Tbe heroine, Ursula Brengwyn, rails most miserably, because tbe struggles the hardest, ler mother, her mistress and over strive almost as fiercely —and the author himself, I think, ore then any of them.
But he does not fall.. Of course he strives for so much that he. at­tains only a fraction of his elm: he ie author, poet, ana^st, phllo-
metlm
ind actor all togeth- maket
itrange medley of It.
Ab author be gives us the story A the Brangwyn family—it sally three stories, but it attains inity because tbe same fundai tal problem Is dealt with In each that of Tom Brangwyn en«i his wife, of their daughter Anne and her .husband, and of Anna’i daughter Ursula and lier lover 
there is tbe same urge, and the Bfime failure.
As poet, Lawrence elaborates
ilne to pour down,“So the’weeks passed on, trance­like and pregnant Tbe pearburst Into bloom against the cottage-end, like a wave burst Into foam. Then gradually the blu< bells.came, blue as water standing thin in the levej places under the. trees and bushes, fiowiiore, Ull there was a flood of
And In these words he Pl< he strangeness of people and 
itreets:
“He was as if mad. Tbe hoi of the brick buildings, of the tr of tbe ashen-grey people tbe street made him reeling and blind as if drunk..... .struggling an ssben-dry, cold-world of rigidity, dead walls and' mechani­cal traffic, and creeping, spectre- like people. The life was extinct.
i this; lifeand beauty into it—so much, in­deed, that the reader is continually amazed at the poetic feats hi performed with prose, at' the presslble things he baB a! succeeded in expressing.. As analyst, he probes deep into the harassed souls of his ‘peonle, so deep that, throughout a consid­erable portion of tbe book, he Is plumbing depths to which Xe’ 
novelists have attained, and fe' readers can follow him.As philosopher, he attempts t reveal something of the meaning of the world in which these p exist—or peraps it Is truer tc the meaninglessness. And in this, too, he is a long way from falling.As artist, he paints one glowing picture after ‘another—pictor trees, fields, and gardens, and ot the' sea and the sky. Here there is.no question of failure; his'skill as' an artist is so great that there is little chance of any of his rivals 'surpassing him. Quoting canx him justice, but it would b just not to quote., This Is a frag­ment of a description of spring:“There was a large pear tree bj a waU, and It was full, throngec with tiny, grey-gTeen buds, myrl ads. She stood before It arrested with delight, and a. reallzatl» went deep into her heart. .There was so great a host In array behind tbe cloud of pale, dim gree much to come forth—so muct
__ university exists tor more than 4he-increase of knowledge.. It i for its propagation. If our faculties were to spend :a}-- .their time in, tbelr laboratories/ana; li­braries, the- .Intellectual -level of tbo class room would drop 
than where threshold of 
One university with which I was 
ssoclated discharged with a year's 
lotlce all Its Instructors who were 
tot Pb. D.’s. Among its losses, 
/ere two men In particular who rere both learned and entertain- og, who wero able to stimulate heir students to read as their scholarly colleagues had never been able to do,—who were .re- ibered by all the graduates as green hills in the flatness of col­lege life. They were replaced by young scholars, with Ph.D.’s and collars three sizes tjoo large. Why? Because the scholars publish and
>nlytved Irred !
bene* adv«ct!s9 tUf Nobody reads what th«? wdtef who has the time to keep ap with the learned journanls* But if enr anyone should read • then, he —n • see below their signatures, incapa. HOOKDS. COLLEGE;:. , . _
Thé Prlhcetonlan has asktf «e 
for my opinion about^tbé&bàtliai 
Here It 1Ne ' 1 hav« never known 4 
man to have a clear. Idea 'wUhont being able to express It (Indeed how .could I?).: If one resdn,lav# 
The Origin ofv Species’, (me linds b-book whosè' subject. matter Is m>t only well ’^expressed, Intelligible even to ;the layman, but* iurévèfï> one knows, more ingeniously pro- found than- any which had preceded \ it , Its author apparently ¡did am find his scholarship a bar to bis teaching ability. .
There is no fundamental can0U Between the two.—Dr.-George Bai in The Dally PrìncètoniaiL
Action of Explosives
itood rigid, there was a horrible, clattering activity, a rattle like th< falling of dry slag, cold and sterile. It was as If tbe sunshine tfaa were unnatural light exposing the ash of the town, as if tbe lights at night were the sinister gleam of decomposition."
There are a hundred more pic­tures like that In tblB book. If we had- artlst6 who could put them 
on canvas we Bhonld have some memorable exhibitions indeed.Finally, as actor, lawrence lives 
tbe story he is. telling. It is as If he himself were doing tbe things his. characters do—bb if be him­self were walking in the rain, har­
vesting com, rhapsodizing to the moon, swimming in the sea, gig­gling In chutch, ¡quarreling, going, .to school, teaching, beating chil­dren, making love, getting married, dying. When one of bis characters laments he seems to lament;, when one of Uiem is overwhelmed with agony he is overwhelmed; when 
one oE them dies he almost dies, too.•' Tbe book Is therefore fuU of a startling Intensity; it Is fierce and tender, rhapsodical and starkly sombre, hysterical and sweetly sane by turns. And It is utterly sincere all through: It comes di­rectly from the heart of the man who wrote it; Its Insistent rhythm Is like tbe quick beating of a pulse. Tbe glimpses that It gives us Into the deep recesses of the human spirit are something more than that: they are glimpses into 
the soul of tbe writer himself—a strange, dark end troubled soul, whose desires will never be com­pletely attained, and .whose eei-rets will never be fully revealed.
If Columbus bad been an. adver­ting man he woud have said, ‘More miles on the galleon/'—
Lesson No. J ofBLASTERS’ HANDBOOK
L Stantoneoualy converted by friction» heat, shock, 
sparks or other means into large volumes of gas.. That - 
sounds simple, but this fundamental principle of the ac­
tion of explosives is modified by a host ofcircumstances 
Pint there ore “high” and “low” explosives. Then there areaD the drcumatanca of purpose, methods of loading and firing ^nd han- .. dling end storing. Explosives are measured prinripnlly ...general characteristics: Strength,Velocity, WaterRfcelMdftlfeiffe'* Density, Fumes, Temperature of Freezing, and anaDuration of Flame; “' OJ .';’f' •
ChapterOneoEtheBlastets’Hendbookmakeathis.se&uaglyana* - plicated subject very easily mastered. Charts and -^a^e^ explain - relative energy of different strengths. Other dwactemtio eie . explained in dessoom terms, and amply'illustrated. ¦
Many of the leading technical o _ . are using the Blasters' Handbook in their classroom t its perfect; practicality. Made up by du ftrat B of their own experience in a great many Reids years. TbQ test-book of the “school of a
Opening with the Bach Suite In Miss Scanlon entered immedl- tely Into 'cello music which Is llfferent Just a lilt cllimsy to xecute properly, requiring a cer- ain amount of repose and surety, ts performance was more than redilablc. Tbe show Sarabande was broadly outlined, and exqul- itely phrased. The Prelude and Glgue also well handled. .The en­tire Suite was made to, sound. Any raggedness In certain passages was more than overbalanced by the strength and breadth of the in­terpretation.
The slow movement of the Rom- berg Concerto was played in true consideration of Its tender and lyrical quality. There was no ex­aggeration, no lapses into senti- 
. Again, a tertaln vigor char, acterized the performance. The Shlnt-Saens tidbit was put In evl-. dently for a moment of relaxation,’ lor although, n was excellently played, it was a bit uninteresting. The. same holds for the Gabriel Faure Elegle. }
But it was in the Brahms eonato that Miss Scanlon gave her best 
performance. Every phrase was colored, rounded out, and. delicate­ly finished. Every item was given Us due. But never was' It over­done;, never was It madu to be­come turgid or heavy. In the first two movements, especially, was there an authority which resem- 
bled a more mature performer, which entirely removed the play­ing from ordinary 'cello playing. It was thrilling music, to fa« r*. membered l< shared honor: in the sonata 
Considered as a whole, the' re­cital was of extraordinary musical merit, not merely another student* recital. • j
S. Miss Burrell with Miss Scanlon
The collet athletic coac choosing for dates who w
is not unlike tli. wbo is faced.wUt
time, or his Icnm’s time,- on those who are not of that typ’e: What the college wants to do i ls to de­vote the best ot Its grfeat iaclll-
xMericasoJma @hd tyotelr,!Detroit and ‘¡iitsburgk
Offers Special Student 
Rates at $8 Per Week
Such accommodations are limited 
and reservations for the next school 
term are being taken now.
It is necessary to have a room mate 
to secure this $8 rate, which in­
cludes use of the swimming pool, 
gymnasium, handball courts, indoor 
golf-net, billiard and card rooms.
Make your reservations now for next fall
May, .1 set you soms refreeh- ¡nts?^- p.-
'Yes;' bring me a .fc'oupl* f of H6rflv’’-TWest Point Egto4fc»>«.f-
