GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
— TODAY —
! CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
ARTS BALL PARTY 
— FRIDAY — 
ARTS SCHOOL FOYER
VOL. XXIII, No. 11, PART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1928.
‘The Plaid Song,” Carnegie’s Latest 
To Be Tried For First Time at 
Third General Assembly Today
Men’s Glee Club Will Make 
First Appearance of 
Year on Campus
ACLEAS, NEW HONORARY,WILL BE RECOGNIZED
Helen Hotham of Department of Drama, to Present ^ Group of Several Readings
The third general assembly of the year -will be held today at 11:30 in the Carnegie Music Hall. Ralph Hitchcock, in charge of en­tertainment, has arranged a short musical program. • Miss Helen Hotliam of the Drama Department ¦will present a group of readings, followed by several selections by the Men’s Glee Club. This will be the first appearance of the club on the campus this year.Another Carnegie song will make its debut, “The Plaid Song,” a typical pep song will be sung and played for the first time by the composer, Walter Sickles. If_ the song is received with enthusiasm by Carnegie students and gives evidence of continued popularity it will be included in the next issue of the Carnegie Song Book.The . words of “The Plaid Song" are as follows:When Notre Dame or Pitt or 
v W. & J.V Come along our way, todayJ We 11 treat them right and thenl\ We’ll call their bluffThen we’ll treat them rough! Till they’ve had enough,For we’ll be fighting for the glory Of Carnegie,And our pep will tell the story,Of Carnegie.When the fight is going hard we’ll Get behind the team Let them know we’re fighting, too With all our steam.Because we’re fighting for the Glory of Carnegie.We must never let the boys Forget we’re there,For where the fight goes down in fame,There will stand Carnegie’s name, For we fought and played the game.Carnegie!Mr. Sickles is a junior in the (Continued on page 2)
^ Copies Of Directory ' *: 
jf For Sale In “Y” Office 4
T Two weeks ago the 1928-29 Sfcu- *£ 
dent Directory made its first ap- A A. pearance on the Carnegie campus. ?*. 
It •sras enthusiastically received and ?> 
over three quarters of the issue *j* 
?> have been »old. The remaining 
Y copies are available at the Y. M. *•* 
*f C. A. office in the main corridor
WILLIAM R. WORK HEADS C. I. T. BRANCH OF A. A. U. P.
The Student Directory is a very ?> 
?> handy book to have around. It is O
Y invaluable during fraternity rushing
Y season and especially near the *j*
Christmas holidays, as It contains V
Y the home addresses of all the stu-
*** dents. It also contains a list of *1* 
all the fraternities with a complete £ 
A list of their members. A catalogue *», 
X of the honorary fraternities, sor- A 
orities, class organizations, and A 
?> class officers is included, as well 
?> as a separate list of the members
Y of Student Council. A great deal Y
Y of favorable comment has been Y
Y made by students as to the change
Y in type, paper, and size of the
Y directory. J*
R.O.T.C. Uniforms Receive 
Much Comment from Co-ed
Knife-Creased Smooth Khaki Seems To Be Delightful Feature; Wide Trousers Preferred
The new uniforms of the R. O. T, C. have called forth much com­ment from the co-eds, one of whom submits the following opinion: “The most charming and delight­ful feature of the uniforms now adorning the R.' O. T. C. is the newness thereof. Any thing new has a particular charm all its own, and the knife-creased, smooth-look­ing khaki material in the new out­fits is no exception. It has been many years since such khaki has been seen on Carnegie grounds. But there is still another feature which is a decided relief to all the co-eds, and that is the absence of the skirt-like breeches. Co-eds may copy the men’s habits and styles but they do not like to have the tables reversed.Though the skirtless effect is quite satisfactory, the narrow trou­sers are rather objectionable. Col­legiate trousers are so much more up-to-date. The narrowness makes one tremble when a soldier bends his knee, at least if one has the true Scotch thought in mind, of the cost of those new trousers.As for the brilliant ornamenta­tion on the shoulders, trousers, sleeves, and caps, there is an idea floating about the campus that it is meant to represent the Carnegie colors, but it is difficult to under­stand how any one came by that j . idea. It might be plaid, but never Carnegie plaid. It looks as though the R. O. T. C. Avere partial to Arts School, judging by the excess of red in the pattern. The co-eds- hope the decorations will wear out soon- and that real Carnegie plaid will be substituted in place of the Harvard crimson.
The overseas caps are cocky 'looking but some of the girls are dubious about all the boys having been overseas. The only objection to the dinks is that, because of (Continued on Page 4)
Engineering Smoker 
To Be Held On Dec. 12
A reception smoker will be held for students in the College of En­gineering, on December 12, in Machinery Hall, by Eta Kappe Nu, national engineering honorary fra­ternity and the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.The program will include enter­tainment and stunts. Talks, will be 
included by the heads of the de­partments of Engineering. Each class will be represented by several of its members who have organized and are planning on giving a series of stunts.The smoker is given in an effort to acquaint the students with the department of Electrical Engineer­ing. Any student in E is eligible 
to attend and those registered in Electrical Engineering or intending to enter that course are especially urged to try to be present.The smoker will be held in Room 211, Machinery Hall, at _eight o’clock. Tickets are priced at 35c, and may be secured from Robert H. Seitz, at Machinerv Hall.
Director Jewett Continued 
Lecture Series Last Week 
In Industrial Management
“Labor Policies in Management” and “Wage Rate” Subjects for Lecture Series Talks
The series of lectures being given to Dr. Rittman’s class in Industrial Management continued last week with two-hour lectures by Director A. C. Jewett, who talked on the subject “Labor Poli­
cies in Management.” Director Jewett who was formerly an in­dustrial plant superintendent and a member of the Industrial Confer­ence Board of New York, and who is now the head of the College of Industries at Carnegie Tech, based his Monday lecture on the “Factors of Morale.” He made plain to the class that the old system of driving employees by fear in vari­ous forms has been put in the discard and the system of gaining greater efficiency, by creating in employees a desire to put forth their best effort, has appeared.The practice of providing com­forts and facilities for the worker in a paternalistic manner has not been successful due to the fact that labor does not seem to accept it in the spirit in which it is offered, although, if organized and requested by labor committees, the same practices . meet with un­doubted success. Modern labor satisfaction is based upon comfort, home happiness, and recreation to a large extent. Pensions, group insurance, mutual benefits, club- rooms, athletics, cafeterias, etc., are the mediums through which industry secures labor satisfaction.The largest single factor in main­taining- labor content, however, seems to lie in that age old ques­tion that labor unions the world over have been fighting for,—con­tinuous (or guaranteed) employ­ment. This, seems, justly enough, to be the major concern of the average laborer who has a family, and if any industry can provide such a situation, it takes an im­mense step towards maintaining and building a strong morale amongst its employees.-On Wednesday Director Jewett spent the hour on the subject "Wage_ Rate.” Again, in connec­tion with the wage to be paid, the importance of a steady employ­ment policy was emphasized as the most important factor in determin­ing the wage rate. The wage level depends largely upon the in­dustry and community with which, the particular concern is operating/The subject of determining wage rates for the various types of workers was discussed. Director (Continued on Page 3)
As a recent meeting of the American Association of University Professors, William R. Work, pro­fessor and head of the Department of Electrical Engineering, was 
elected president of the Carnegie Institute of Technology branch of that organization. Other officers selected for the current year in­clude F. Curtis Swanson, assistant professor of history and political science, as vice president; Mrs. Ednah N. Cranna, assistant pro­fessor of secretarial studies, as sec­retary, and Kent Shaffer, instructor in patternmaking, as treasurer.
Edmund Tarbell Wins 
Popular Prize at Exhibit
International Exhibit Will Remain Open Until Next Sunday, December 9.
Edmund C. Tarbell won the pop­ular prize for his painting “Mar­gery and Little Edmund,” in the Twenty-seventh Carnegie Institute International Exhibition. This, is the fifth year that this_ prize has been won by an American artist. None of the paintings which were awarded prizes by the International Jury received many votes from the public.The closest competitors of the Tarbell painting, in order of pref­erence, were:, “Betty as a Gypsy,” by H. E. Schnakenberg, "Evening,” by Frederick J. Waugh, “Sweeping Crests,” also by Frederick J.Waugh, “Aprilea,” by Pietro Gaudcnzi, and "Antonia” also by Gaudenzi.The award was based on the votes of the visitors to the Exhibi­tion during the past two weeks. Each visitor was given a ballot and asked to vote for_ the painting in the Exhibition which he liked the best. All the paintings in the show were eligible for the prize with the exception of those by Charles Sims and the one by Carlota Saint-Gau- dens. These two artists died with­in the past year.Edmund C. Tarbell is very well- known in Pittsburgh. He has been a contributor to Carnegie Interna­tionals since the first one in 1896, and at different times has received all three prizes and medals. In 190. Mr. Tarbell received the third prize for his painting, “The Vene­tian Blind.” In 1904 he received the Second Prize for his “A Re­hearsal in the Studio,” and in 1909 he received the First Prize for his (Continued on Page 3)
Chewing Gum Test Held Not Fair, But
Beechnut Proves to Be Favorite Chew
"Not so hot”—verdict for No. 1.“Absolutely terrible” — verdict for No. 2."Like it. Think its great”—posi­tive verdict for No. 3.“Fair but not so good as the last one”—answer for the fourth try. And Beechnut won again!The chewing gum fad once more has the Carnegie Campus in its clutches, and since the “Old Gold’’ popularity test has become some­what passe we decided to discover for ourselves the why and where­fore of all the various brands and ilavors of chewing gum available around the colleges. Then it was that -the brilliant idea of holding a chewing test, to determine the most popular of “popular chews” struck us!Gaily we bought four of the famous and popular brands of chew­ing gums—Wrigley’s Doublemint, Juicy Fruit, Beechnut and Beeman’s Pepsin—and set about to pick our participants. Having selected four unsuspecting victims, we explained as briefly and1 inexplicitly as pos­
sible and proceeded to curb their numerous questions by Shoving first one kind and then another of'the designated gums into their mouths.Victim No. 1 was rather dubious about the entire affair, but be: grudgingly gave out her opinions— rather weakly, I assure you.—con­cerning each of the chewed pieces.
First I administered Bceman’s Pep­sin, my own special pet among chewing gums, and listened to a “good.” That was followed by Beechnut, and I could tell by the enraptured look upon her face that the verdict would be no other than “grand” or “scrumptious."“Scrumptious” it was, and when the Beechnut was followed by Juicy Fruit and Doublemint in quick suc- c .ssion, I was fully prepared for the "no good”—and "terrible” that our first victim emitted. She stuck to her choice of Beechnut, as I wondered just who it was that dropped her on her head when she was an infant.The second participant was more dubious than the first (if possible) and would very quickly have backed out of the situation if it had been at all possible. Overruling her ob­jections we thrust a nice stick of Juicy Fruit into his mouth and waited the verdict. “Terrible—think it’s awful,” was hushed up by shovijjg Doublemint in to take the first stick’s place. That was conceded to be "fair, but nothing tu rave about," and rather despair­ingly I followed with Beechnut. Such a reaction! It was "grand, simply grand,” and immediately I knew what the opinion about Bee­man’s, the last would be. It was I decidedly “not so good,” and again • (Continued on Page 4)
Carnegie Team to Receive Mudc Department Will Give 
City Championship Trophy Schubert P ogram on Dec. 9
LAST OF THJS DISCUSSION GROUPS HELD YESTERDAY
Monday, December 3. at 4:30, in the Margaret Morrison Assembly Hall, Miss Breed held the fifth of a series of Discussion Groups for seniors. The topic was a con­tinuation of the subject of the dis­cussion of the last meeting, "The Metaphysical Basis of Ethics.” Former meetings of the Discussion Gr ..up have been concluded before Thanksgiving, but this year, owing to the exceptional, interest shown, an extra meeting was scheduled. This meeting was the last of the Discussion Groups for this year/ (Continued on Page 4)
Arrangements Have Been Completed 
For Tartan to Exchange Staffs With 
Pitt Weekly For Next Issue of Paper
Col. Dougherty Honored 
By Scabbard And Blade
Military Honorary Admits Fourteen 
Pledges to Active Member­
ship at Fall Initiation
City Council, Chamber of Com­merce Will Present Cup at Luncheon Dec. 13
Professor Dibble Returns 
’ From Conference in Texas
Professor S. E.' Dibble, head of 
the Department of Plumbing, Heat­
ing and Ventilation, has just re­
turned from the A. & M. College 
of Texas, where he participated in 
the first annual conference : for 
Plumbing and Steamfitting Instruc­
tors. The conference, which lasted from November 12 to 24, was the 
first of its kind in the southern 
part of the country.
During the fuel period of the 
conference Professor Dibble offered 
a short special course in trade 
analysis and methods of teaching 
plumbing and steamfitting appren­
tices. Previously he had assisted 
at similar conferences in Ohio, 
Indiana, Massachusetts and Florida, 
and has conducted four such con­
ferences at Carnegie.
The fifth annual Teachers’ Train­
ing Courses for Plumbing and 
Heating Instructors will begin on 
January 21 and will continue throughout _ the following two weeks. This Conference is spon- scred by the department of Heat­ing and Ventilation of which Pro­fessor Dibble is the head. The lectures will be given in conjunc- ti< with the University of Pitts- bi. ,!i. Many well known speakers have been secured for this confer­ence. As all visitors are welcome, anybody may take advantage of the opportunities which these courses offer.
Dr. Baker Publishes Tangible Results of
Second International Coal Conference
The Coal Conference is over. 
Chemists, physicists, inventors, have 
returned home. Scientists who 
came to Pittsburgh to tell of their progress _ since the first similar meeting in 1926, men who came to learn the results of investigation, of research, all have gone back to their laboratories and workshops, leaving the Music Hall and the Lecture Hall and the Carnegie Union to the morfe aesthetic pleas­ures . of concerts, lectures and dances.
The Conference required a great amount of effort on the part of Dr. Baker; much correspondence was necessary; many details had to be worked out. Was it worth it? Did the results justify this expen­diture of effr'irt and money.
President L; leer, who engineered the program, believes that several important results may be clearly seen. The first is that the coal men of the United States have had a glimpse of the vast amount or scientific work that is being carried on throughout the world. They have • come away from the Coal Conference with greater respect for science and with the feeling that they cannot afford to ignore re­
search in making -plans for the fu­ture of their industry. Many of the papers presented contain ideas
that can be put to practical use in 
our country, and in the Pittsburgh 
district, in the near future.
Again, the Conference shewed 
the clear need of a research labora­
tory for the. study of coal. Pitts­
burgh is the logical place for the 
establishment of such a laboratory. 
Dr. Baker is planning' tc\ found a research bureau for the study of bituminous coal at Carnegie Tech. He is engaged in a search for the right man to take charge of it. 
Although there are not sufficient funds available at present, Dr. Baker believes that money will be found once the laboratory is es­tablished. Soft coal is a subject which is of the greatest importance to the industrial life of Pittsburgh-Coal as a basis of chemical prod­ucts is increasing in importance. Although there is no indication that more coal will be used in the production of power, the coal pro­ducer will find a market in con­cerns who are utilizing the by­product possibilities of. coke. Most of our synthetic .perfumes and many products of whose ancestors we know nothing, are based on the lowly coal.
Dr. Baker, predicting the future of like conferences, says in part: (Continued' on Page 3)
The Carnegie Tech football team will receive the City Champion­ship trophy, one week from Thurs­day, on December 13, at a luncheon given by the Chamber of Com merce at the Chamber of Com­merce building. The City Council, as well as the Chamber of Com merce will award a city champion ship cup to the Carnegie Football Team. Since Westinghouse High School team is also a city cham­pionship team, they will also re­ceive a trophy from the City Council.Dr. Baker, Bob Waddell, Car­negie coaches and managers, coaches and team will be present at the luncheon. This will be the last gathering of the Carnegie football squad this year and the final appearance of seniors of the Carnegie grid as football men.This year is the first year that an official city championship cup has been awarded. The idea of awarding trophies to the city championship teams by the City Council was provided for early last spring. The City Council, in designating the day of _ the Pitt- Tech game, made provisions for an annual "Pittsburgh Football Day.”'
The cup will be received by Captain Howard Harpster. Many prominent members of the Car­negie squad will probably be called upon to speak on this occasion. The city trophy will remain in the Carnegie Trophy room until the University of Pittsburgh can mus­ter sufficient strength to down the (Continued on Page 2)
Mr. Davis Presides At 
Thanksgiving Dinner
Mr. R. V. Davis, Secretary of the 
Carnegie “Y”, acted as host to a 
large group of Carnegie men at a 
Thanksgiving dinner, which was held in the Inn last Thursday. It is an annual»»custom for the “Y”, represented by Mr. Davis, to give a dinner for those men who for one reason or another are unable to go home for Thanksgiving. The “Y” has done and is doing a great many things of this sort for the Carnegie students.
A plan is being developed where­by the Carnegie Student Cabinet of the Y. M. C. A. will hold its meetings every two weeks, imme­diately following the Chapel Serv­ices. The plan will be inaugurated after Chapel Tuesday, December 11. The meetings will be in the form of luncheons, and will take place in the Faculty Dining Room of the Carnegie Inn. It is planned to have the speaker of the Chapel Service attend these meetings as the guest of the Student Cabinet.
Y. W. T O HAVE CANDLELIGHT SERVICE DEC.’ 11
The Y. W. C. A. will hold a 
Student Christmas dinner on Tues­
day, December 11, at 6 o'clock, in 
the Recreation Hall. Irene La 
Londe is in charge- of a special Candle Light Service, while Martha Lou Clark has charge of the din­ner. Christmas carols will be a part of the program.The Candle Light Service will be an innovation, differing from other forms the Y. W. C. A. meetings take. All members are urged to be present in order o carry out the ccremony effectively. This gathering will conclude activi­ties^ the Y. W. C. A. until after Christmas vacation.The Y. W. C. A. sponsors a imilar Candle Light Service, pre­ceded by a dinner, every year just before^ the Christmas holidays, and the girls who have attended have enjoyed it perhaps more than any of the other dinner meetings, held during the year. The service is always very impressive and is well worth attending.
Concert Commemorates Hundredth Aniversary of Well-Known Composer’s Death
The Carnegie Symphony orches­tra and students of the voice de­partment of Carnegie Institute will present a Schubert program on Sunday evening, December 9, 1928, at 8:15'''p. m. in .Carnegie Music Hall.^ The program will be of­fered' in observance of the one hundredth anniversary of the death of that well-known composer of the great B Minor (unfinished) and the C Major Symphonies, both of which will be included on the program. Schubert's reputation as the greatest song-writer of all time will be honored by the rendi­tion of a number of his songs by the vocal students. Tickets are required and will be reserved and ¿ent to, those persons sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope, with their request to the Theatre., College of Fine Arts, Carnegie In­stitute of Technology. Seats will not be reserved after 8:15.Schubert, the world-famous com­poser, was born in the year 1797 and died in 1828. The world of this generation can pay no finer honor to the memory of this di­vine composer than to hear his music, especially his songs, through 
which one penetrates deepest to his innermost essence and work. For song is_ the center and gravity in Schubert’s creative genius, and the lyric is likewise the germ of his instrumental works.The Carnegie Symphony mad its first appearance of the year last Tuesday at the Carnegie Day exercises, in the Music Hall under the direction of J. Vic. O'Brien, (Continued on Page 2)
Colonel A. J. Dougherty, chief of 
staff of the Eighty-fourth Division, 
was admitted to . Scabbard and 
Blade as an honorary member on 
Friday, November 23, at the an 
nual fall initiation. At the same 
time 14 pledges were received into 
the organization as active mem­
bers.
Colonel Dougherty is now a Col­
onel oh the General Staff of the 
84th Infantry Division of the Or­
ganized Reserves at Indianapolis, Indiana. He is a graduate of the University of Illinois and for four years was the State Commander of the American Legion of that 
State. He was the chairman of a committee of eight in charge of the rehabilitation work after the war. During the war. he was on the General Staff in charge of sup- p. s and equipment for the infan­try. Colonel Dougherty made a special trip to Pittsburgh to at­tend the initiation because of his interest in the work of Scabbard and Blade. Of Scabbard and Blade, he says, “it is one of the few organizations which is doing the right work at the right time, and in the right manner."
The other men initiated were: Robert Rhoades, A. W. Miller, WilMam Conwell, Henry Dietz, J. H. Ferrich, Thomas Connelly, Fred Michaelson, W. Irving Smith, Roy Carter, Raymond Johnson, George 
Cooper, Wilfred Worland, John Mc­Clure and Orville Seidner
Agreement is Result of Ove* 
A Year’s Planning By 
Both Staffs
PETTIT. WEEKLY EDITOR,TO HANDLE TARTAN
Carnegie Staff Will Edit the Dec. 7 Issue of Pitt Weekly In First Exchange
Prizes To Be Given
At Arts Ball Party
The Arts Ball Committee has arranged for an Arts Ball party to be held Friday, December 7, at 4:30 in the Exhibition room of the College of Fine Arts. The party is being held to encourage the in­troduction of Arts students to each 
other and to determine the winner of the five dollar prize for the best design of a costume for the ball. The choice will be made by popular vote sometime during the party 
and the_ prize ‘ will be awarded by Dean Keeble, according to the committee. Refreshments and en­tertainment •Will be offered and 
the only charge will be a cheerful countenance. Dean Keeble is also the donor of two free tickets to the Arts Ball which will be given to the persons holding the.winning numbers drawn in a raffle.It is to be remembered that a late fee of twenty-five cents will be charged all those who do not pay the dollar deposits for their Arts Ball ticket before the proper (Continued on Page 4)
KILTIE BAND ASSISTSAT BRIDGE OPENING
Investigation Carried On 
In H. And V. Laboratory
| In connection with the American
I Society of Pleating and Ventilating. 
Engineers and the U. S. Bureau of 
Mines, an investigation is being car­
ried on in the heat laboratory of the 
Heating and Ventilating Department 
to, develop the sizes of wet return 
lines in steam heating systems. A 
return line in a steam heating sys­
tem is the pipe into which the con­
densed steam iroin the radiators 
flows on the way back to the heat­
ing boiler. A wet return is so called 
because it runs below the water level 
in the boiler and the pipe itself is 
filled with water. There is no avail­
able data on this ' subject so that contractors usually, install larger size pipe than is needed. When this piece of research is completed and published it will enable contractors to install the right sizes of pipe, at a saving of. several hundred dollars on every installation. Director Houghton and Professor Dibble have direct supervision over the two re­search engineers who are collecting the data. Special instruments to aid the work are now being made in the Bureau of Mines.It is of interest that the research work done by this department last year has been published and is now generally accepted by the industry. Many manufacturers have made re­prints of the work or have incorpor­ated it bodily into their catalogues and have distributed it to their cus­tomers who use it in their daily 
work.
Last Saturday, December 1, the 
Kiltie Band assisted at the opening 
cf the Thirty-first street bridge. 
The opening of this bridge com­
plétés the $6,000,000 bridge-building program which included the build­ing of the Sixth, Seventh and 
Ninth street bridges and the raising and repairing of the Thirty-first street bridge. Pittsburgh has often been called the City of Bridges as there ^ are approximately five hun­dred in and around the Pittsburgh district.The opening of the bridge was conducted in a different manner than has been the custom in the past. Instead of having the usual land ceremony, consisting of cut­ting a ribbon dividing- the two crowds, a marine parade was held. This was one of those occasions when the large Pittsburgh fleet has been seen together. Marine parades in Pittsburgh have been very scarce and well worth seeing, and last Saturday seemed no exception. (Continued on Page 2)
WM. C. PETTIT
William Pf ff Well Known 
Printer From New Orleans 
to Give Address in January
Professor Gustafson Will Address the Printing Section Meeting In Philadelphia, Dec. 15
Mr. William Pfaff of New Or­leans, one of the best known printers in the United States, has promised to speak to the students of the Department of Printing at Carnegie Institute of Technology, sometime in January. Mr. Pfaff has a very interesting personality and is a fine speaker. He has been mayor of New Orleans and 
has held other important civic of­fices. Last year the citizens of New Orleans presented him with a testimonial to show their regard for the work he had done. Mr. Pfaff1 is at present treasurer of the United Typothctae of America.Professor Gustafson, head of the Printing Department, has been in­vited to give an address at the Printing Section Meeting of the American Vocational Association to be held in Philadelphia, December 13 to 15. Professor Gustafson is scheduled to speak on Saturday, 
December 15.Mr. H. E. Sterling, instructor^ in Advertising Design in the Printing Department, has been asked by the United Typothctae of America to collaborate with Mr. H. L. Gage of New York on a new book on "Design in Printing.” , The book is to be a unit in the U. T. A. Typographic Library of which there has been published forty volumes. This library constitutes a valuable contribution to printing education in' the United States.Mr. Harry L. Gage of New York has recently donated a book on "Layout in Advertising” to the Printing Department. This book is by W. A. Dwiggins and is the latest and best book that lias been published on this subject.The list of judges of the term papers written by the Senior class in English for Printers is now (Continued on Page 4)
THETA TAU TO HOLD SEMI­ANNUAL INITIATION SOON
Plans for the semi-annual initia­
tion of Theta Tau, National Pro­fessional Engineering Fraternity, are being formulated. Members are requested to watch the bulletin boards for notices of a special meet­ing which will be held some time in the near future. The schedule for activities calls for an initiation to be held before the Christmas vacation. Completion of all prepa­rations will be made within a week 
or -10 days.
Pittsburgh Mecca of European Students,
Says Woman Delegate to Conference
The old order is being reversed: European girls are going to work, saving their money,' and then com­ing to the United States to study.That, at least, is what Miss Maria Friedlova of the Prague in Czechoslovakia has done. And 
what Rome, Paris, Vienna are to the American student, Pittsburgh, the site of Carnegie Tech, is to Miss Friedlova.One of the very few women delegates to the Second Interna­tional Conference on Bituminous Coal, Miss Friedlova, not yet out of her twenties, expressed no small delight in the opportunity she has had of hearing the great scientists 
of the age—-her heroes—discuss the problems she herself is engaged in solving. For five years after her graduation from a college of science in her country, she was connected with a laboratory, the Fuel Research Institute in the Prague. Then wanting new and more advanced research work, she came—to Pittsburgh.But though Pittsburgh is a great coal center, her own city has done enough in connection with the coal problems to make Pittsburgh have reason to feel ashamed. Take this matter of smoke, for instance. The Prague is smoky, Miss Friedlova admits, but in comparison with 
Pittsburgh;—!
“The Prague has one district only in which factories are allowed, you see,” Miss Friedlova explained. “The smoke in the residential _ dis­
tricts would be eliminated entirely if we had your gas instead of coal alone for fuel in our kitchens.”But even the smoke from the chimneys of private houses is .bc- inc lessened through a device, in­vented it the Fuel Research In­stitute, which causes the smoke from the stoves to be consumed.In spite of Pittsburgh’s smoki­ness, however, Miss Friedlova de­clares that she is glad she came. She is delighted with the friendli­ness of American girls, and admires their self-reliance.
She has fallen in love with Dean Green, who has befriended the Czck girl. Referring to her dic­tionary to find the word (English is very new to her), Miss Friod- lova said that she was highly "thrilled” when Miss Green invited her to the banquet given for dele­gates to the Coal Conference. She was equally "thrilled” when she met Dr. Baker and "the other ‘known’ people,” by which term she designates the faculty of Car­negie Tech.Miss Friedlova plans to spend two years, perhaps three years do­ing research—in Pittsburgh, the mecca of European students.
The next issue of the Tartan which appears Tuesday, December 11, will be edited entirely by the Pitt Weekly, the newspaper of the 
University of Pittsburgh. In ex­change, the Tartan staff will edit the Pitt Weekly which appears on \ Friday, December 7. This inter­change of the two newspapers has been contemplated for over a year and is at last to be realized. William C. Pettit, editor of the Pitt Weekly, was the originator of the idea of exchanging staffs.It has been chiefly due to the efforts of the Pitt staff that the development of this inter-school interest in journalistic activity has been brought about as far as is known, this is the first time that two college newspapers have made such exchange in staffs. In the past there have been made many ¦ interchanges of staffs of magazines, and humorous monthlys, with in­teresting and pleasant results. Last year one issue of the Carnegie Pup­pet and the Pitt Panther was pub­lished by the exchanged staffs and it proved to be one of the most successful numbers of the humor­ous publications. From all indi­cations the interchanging of the Pitt and Carnegie staffs will be carried through with results that will- prove satisfactory to both staffs. It seems only fitting that two schools so close together should l\ave an exchange of jour­nalistic interests as well as athletic The staffs will be enabled to meet many of the faculty and important student personages on the cam- puses and thus have a speaking acquaintance will people they other­wise would have never known. It is hoped that this intermingling of journalistic _ staffs will do much for the extension of the good will and feeling between the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Tech.
Carnegie Prof. Writes Text 
For Educational Series
Prof. Nyquist’B Book Deals With a New Field—Educational Methodology
Another book will soon be added to those written by members of the faculty of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Professor Fredrik V. Nyquist has completed a text­book entitled "Art Education in Elementary Schools,” which will ( be published from the press pf/ Warwick and /orlc of Baltimore sometime in January. The volume will be included in a new series, The University Research Mono­graphs, the purpose of which is to 
“make available to educators and students reports on scicntific in­vestigations, in various fields of research, conducted at leading American and foreign universi tics.”The volume deals with the aims, content and methods of teaching art in elementary schools, a field of educational methodology in which little previous experimentation has been conducted. Professor Nyquist has attempted in this , monograph to align art instruction in accord­ance with the principles and prac­tices of modern educational theory and reform. The volume is the outcome of over a year’s work and should take its place as a pioneer­ing effort in this phase of peda­gogy.In a forthcoming issue of Edu­cational Administration and Super­vision, a magazine for school super­
intendents and supervisors, Pro­fessor Nyquist will have an article on "The Itinerary of the Special Supervisor.” The paper is a report on one of the many difficulties which commonly confronts super-, visors of art education, home eco­nomics, industrial arts, music, -pen­manship, physical training and other special subjects. The nature of the diiffculty is the making of super­
visory schedules which will meet all the variations in teachers’ pro- rams within a department and yet (Continued on Page 2)
Dr. Baker. Entertains
Children of Faculty
On Saturday afternoon, Decem­ber 8, Precedent Baker will give his annual Christmas party to all of the children of the Carnegie faculty. The party will be held as usual in the Exhibition Room of the Arts Building.Dr. Baker has again extended an invitation to the members of the Social Service Department of Mar­garet Morrison to aid him in mak­ing his party a success. Since the children’s ages vary greatly, it is impossible for Dr. Baker alone to amuse the entire group all after­noon. The Social Workers will devise a program of games that will be suited to children of various ages.
This year the Stringers will as­sist the Social Workers by playing for the guests a program of ap­propriate Christmas music.One of the most delightful fea­tures of the afternoon will be the distribution of Dr. Baker’s gift, boxes of candy, both to guests and entertainers.
i:

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 192&
çfieai promise
Dollar Day Contributions Amount 1 o $400 
Hope To Raise Over $1000 Before January
November 27, Carnegie D a y, opened the campaign for the Dollar Day Fund, which in accordance with the custom established last year, will remain open until Janu­ary 1, 1929. On that day the con­tributions sent in by alumni pre­vious to the actual opening of the drive, for a dollar from each loyal alumnus, exceeded the amount col­lected last year at the same time, but it is nowhere near our goal. To date we have collected over ¡5*100, which is.a fine start, but we are counting upon all who have not contributed • to bring the Fund up to an amount of which any Carnegie Alumni can be proud.
We arc not asking much. Just a dollar from cach of you, and there arc more than five thousand in the ranks of the alumni .organization 
at the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology. Surely you arc not going to let a campaign like this, in which we arc asking for so little, fail? Your Alma Mater needs your help, and this is one of the easiest means of adding money to the En­dowment Fund.Last year we raised $600 for the Endowment Fund. Will you not be ashamed of yourself and your fellow alumni if we cannot double that amount this year? We should triple it! With the fine response we had to our call for dollars before the twenty-seventh of No­
vember, the opening day of the drive, we are confident that the alumni are going to make this an­nual giving plan one of the most worth while things they have ever done for Carnegie Tech.The students will contribute, the faculty members arc sending in contributions, trustees and friends of the school arc showing their interest in making this Dollar Day Fund a success. The clans are sending in their contributions as groups. The Youngstown and Gol­den Gate Clans have contributed and it is hoped that we will hear from the other organizations very iiiortly.The following list contains the names of those who have con­tributed since ' the last list was printed on this page:Walter Y. Yenny, E.Harry Hammond.Mrs. W. C. Chancellor and Mr.Mary McLean Martin.C. C. Dunnclls, Faculty.Dorothy R. Dunnels, M'28.Alvah W. Bryant, E'26.Helen M. Savard, M’19.Morton G. Winslow, A’22.Mary Slcumpilc, M'25.E. J. Hedlund, I'16.M. T. Archer, E’10.Frances V. Rayburn.T. B. Gotham, E’23.GertrUdc M. Snyder, M'28.William W. Murray, E'26.Ruth M. Fornwalt, M’26.John G. Bylcr, E’22,Ray J. Rodgers,' A.O. S. Heck, Flo.H. M. Danner, I'LlIs. B. Tibi rook, E’24.I,, E. Considlnc.Marguerite E. Bftlph, M'27.J. I*'. Col I man.Robert J. K. rod cl, A’26.Eva L. Kuhn, A.C, 11. McCall, E’ll.Edith Scott Glenn, M’10.Mary J.. Rhodes, M’20.A, W, Crownovcr, E’ll.John S. Wilson, i'll.Martha E, Fleming, M'25,Anna Loomis McCandlcss, M'19.E. Gelst, I..1. R. McClain, E’10.[. I). Quinlan.K, L. Groom, I.Charlotte Smith, A'18.Youngstown ClanJ. J). Evans.W. B. Hildebrand.1,. D. Woodworth.R. A. Bookmeyer.T. M. McDonald.E. C. Beedc.D. V. Beedc.G. J. Murphy.
M. C. Kinder.Sidney Forbes.B. F. Anthony.S. D. Stewart.T. H. Stevenson.Andrew Sage.Ruth E. Andrews.Rachel Magill Altman, M’17.R. P. Bascom, E’ll.Homer M. Sinclair, -E’21.O. J. Southwell, A’15. •Fred L. O’Brien,Alfred J. Hanks.Mary 1-Icilig Leonard, M’24.R. P. Avery, I.L. F. Reinartz, E'09.J. Wallace i-lopkin.s, E’25.Fred M, Sickler, 1*10.E. R. Dodson.C. A. Lick, Jr., I.\t. W. Light, E'10.R. H. Watkins.Frederick D. Rossini, E’25.T. David Fitz Gibbon, A.Edward Crump, Jr., A’15.Mr. and Mrs. D. F. Cassidy.John G. Conway.S. E. Dyke.C. V. Carlson, I.Eunice M. Clark, M’27.L. P. Maier, E'1'6.W. H. Ricgcr, E’08.Martha Lloyd James.A. Y. Casanova, Jr., E’22.Edward P. Geary, I'23.Olga Kiefer Morgan, M'21.H. O. Waechter, I'14.Bebckah Shuman.C. D. Hasness, A'12.P. S. Riggs, E'27.C. T. Patterson, E’lS.Hazel A. Mathias, M’28.
Carl C. Gricner, E'21.J. N. Tilbrook, I’27.Paul Cole.John E. Kenney, E'22.Joseph Chalupa, E'27.R. N. Jones, E'20.W. I-L Scaright, E'17.A. A. Lewis.Mr. and Mrs. H. Iv. KirkPatrick, Faculty.
William M. Ball, I’ll.Mrs. William Ball.Billy Ball, III.Betty Ball.Donnie Ball,W. H. Norris, E’17.John C. Snyder, E'08.E. S. Greiner.George B. Baker.E. O. Kaul, E'12.D. K. Reid, E’10.Charles F. Bowers.J. R. Arnold, E'18.Charles T. Lamar.Louis E. Mackoy, I’26.Margaret J. Scott, M'28.Gladys S. Slonakcr, M'21.A. L. Heston, E'17.James F. Tabler, E’13.Walter L. Shively, E’24.Mrs. Asher F. Shupp, M'16.II. G. Gibson, E.Martha E. Colcgrove, M’23.A. M. Stevenson, E’16.M. M. Hills, I’16.Grace L. Hershberger, M'24.Mrs. Clarence Overend. Marguerite Overend.Mary Louise Overend.Joseph Overend. •John Overend.Mrs. C. C. Richards, M'25.A. C. Irwin, 1’22.R. V. Mast, 1'2I.Ralph D. Durbin.William E. Lange.Harry M. Lowery,Jean Mather.Leonidas Barboza. 'Thomas A. Elkins, E'27,Dr. Hazel Inez Smail Bcncckc. , Joseph H. Goldman.P. J. Werner, I'09.J. C. Brewer, E.Golda M. Heminger.Elizabeth Yagle, M’12.Charles Ivrane.R. L, Weaver, E'17.Charlotte Tross, M’18.J. S. Charles, E’10.C. Bryson, E’27.L. H. Singleton.Frank B. Blattcnberger, I'12.T. G. Bixlcr, I.W. W. Wallace.Daniel W. Talbot, E'23.Miss Mary Watson Green, Dean
of Women.James W. Jones, E'10.E. C. Ramagc, E'24.Lt. F. H. Koerbel, E' 12.E, F. Archibald, E’10.E. D. Lambert, E’13.H. Dorothy Kink, M'22.V. Chartener, Jif09.L. W. Nicols, A.P. M. Williams, E’27.Carl C. Pribck, A’20.Albert C. Minctti, E’24.Mrs. Carl Glock, M’15.M. F. Barrett, 1'19.F. W. Manlcer, E’12.C. C. Machcstcr, A.O; A. Dickman.J. F. Jjaboon, E’12.Gail V. Sellers Fettke.Harry Kraft.L. Irene Timms.C. A. Meitcr, E'23.H. D. Skyrn, E’22.G. L. Tilbrook, E’lS.A. Z. Shrnina.V. P. Lewis.Wilbur Carl, E'23,F. H. Noel, I’lO.Marie E. Greenfor Laura, M’12.H. W. Peth, E'23.J. B. Sprague.T. W. Blewitt, E’27.O. Biclcr.Pansy E. Jones.A. Tydfil Jones, M'26.Bertha G. Johnston.
P. J. Unzicker. .Mrs. P. J. Unzicker.J. M. Guthrie, E’25.W. D. Smith.D. W. Wait, A.Harry V. Mason.John P. Fry.
F. S’. Boom, E'21.W. C. Dodge.J. W. Savage.Harold T. Gammon, E Professor Trinks.
Paul F. Maurer, E’22. ,Luther S. Lashmit.G. G. Kelccy, E’14.R. H. Hendrickson, E.Donald C. Jones,B. L. Schwartz, E’16.Mrs. Chaunccy Newton, M’20.H. W. Hartman, E’20.C. F. Wright, E’13.S. M. Sperry, 1-15.C. J. Billmeyer, A’23.Edna W. Hennessec, M’17. Elmer P. Wimmer.Guy Narrancc.John P. Melcher, E’17.I-L Ginsburg, E’20.J. A. Garber, E’08.G. M. Darby, I.Rose M. Morin, M’25.Fcrnlcy B. Phillips, E'28.E. R. Gates.II. 11. Auerswald, E'14.Jane L. Pritchard, M'll.Mm. C. I-Icltzel, E’18.C. Richard Burgis.J. F. Chidester, E'27.N. T. Wellings, I.John L. Womack, I'19.Gerald O. Schoonover. A’22. Albert Henderson, E'08.Paul Johner, E’26.Estelle G. Andrews.Alfred S. Andrews.Edwin M. Herr; Trustee. Josephine Stewart, M'22.G. H. Kann, E.James T. Allen.D. R. Ingalls, E’16.Frank J. Lanahan, Trustee.G. M. Whislcr.Elizabeth D. Wharton,Nana McCullough.
P. GRUTTER ELECTED HEAD 
OF COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
Mr. Paul Gruttcr of Carnegie Tech was elected President of tlie Cosmopolitan Club at a meeting held November 28, 1928. The elec­tion of officers was followed by a program, during which Miss John­son relatod the story of the Amer­ican Thanksgiving in comparison with that of other countries. Mem­bers joined in dancing American dances, fatrioiig which were the Vir­ginia Reel. Miss Nisson, who has just recently come from Oslo Uni­versity, Oslo, Norway, spoke about her first experiences in this coun­try. Mr. Fong of Duquesnc Uni­versity concluded the program by a selection on the Chinese flute.
MUSIC DEPT. WILL GIVE
SEALBERT PROGRAM
(Continued from Page 1)
head of the Department of Music. Their two selections, "March Mili­taire,” and “Walthcr’s Prcisleid” from “Die Meistersinger,” . were generously received by the student body.
“THE PLAID SONG”
(Continued from Page 1)
Department of Music, specializing in voice. He is first assistant man­ager of the Men’s Glee Club and a member of Phi Mu Alpha, Scrifonia. He is at present working over the score for the show to be presented at the Arts Ball this year. He has arranged the song for the Kiltie Band, who will use it during the coming basketball season.Acleas, the new honorary society for Sophomore women, will be publicly given recognition by the Student Council This .society is composed of 15 Sophomore girls from Margaret Morrison and Arts School,, chosen on a basis of high scholarship and leadership in ac­tivities. According to the constitu­tion, Sophomore women who have an average of at least, four quality points per unit, and who have been outstanding in leadership and serv­ice in activities during their Fresh­man year, and who rank high in character are eligible for election.
KILTIE BAND ASSISTS
AT BRIDGE OPENING
(Continued from Page 1)
The opening ceremony began at 11 a. m. with’ those people who assisted in the ceremony aboard the riverboat which led the impres­sive marine parade. The Kiltie Band was on the leading boat also and during the parade played sev­eral popular airs and stirring marches. The Kilties were impres­sive in their new role of public servants to the City of Pittsburgh.
| CLAN NEWS |
GOLDEN GATE CLAN 
We recently conducted our clan 
elections in a picturesque manner 
on a street corner in Chinatown, 
San Francisco, after a dinner and 
evening of exploration following the 
Army-Navy Game. John McCool, 
A, wa$ chosen President, and Agnes 
McAlpin McCool, A, was elected 
Secretary. Their address is 1304 
Bermal avenue, Burlingame, Cal. 
Vice President will be Leroy Emer- ick, address Leeds Northrop Co., San Francisco. •
NORTHERN JERSEY CLAN The Northern Jersey Clan is making an attempt to increase their membership from Carnegie gradu­ates in the Northern New jersey and New York City districts. To all alumni in this section a social calendar and a return postal card has been sent. This calendar is a very good indication of the activ­ity of the Northern Jersey Clan. It is by far the most enthusiastic of all of. the clans. It has a regu­lar meeting place, it holds meetings quite often (in comparison with some of the other clans), it has a /relatively large membership, and b -t of all,, their secretary writes to the alumni office, before and after they hold meetings. If the other clans would only follow the lead of this clan, Carnegie would surely have a wonderful alumni organization.To get back to this folder which was sent to members and possible members of the clan. A very color­
ful cover with all the colors of the plaid, lavender or violet, being the predominating color. Aside from being pleasing to the eye it contains much that is of interest to these Carnegie , Alumni. The name.; and addresses of the officers of the Clan are on the first -page. The second contains the purpose of the clan: To promote sociabil­ity among Carnegie men and wom­en. Their meetings arc always at the Wilkies Coffee Shop, 7 West Park Place, Newark, New Jersey. Here a fine time is always had by those who attend the meetings, for there is always dinner, cards, danc­ing, and othhr things, the most important of which is talking over the days at Carnegie. Absolutely the dnly purpose of the meeting is for all to have an enjoyable time. The dates for all social engage­ments arc given in the calendar. Details arc not given, the informa­tion coming out at a later time. A card was enclosed with a return address on it. If those who re­ceived the calendars were interested and wished to attend the meetings they were to fill in the cards and mail them to Charles W. Gibbs, the secretary of this clan. We wish them much success in their pro­gram for the year.
HIGHWAY ENGINEERING IS CIVIL SEMINAR SUBJECT
At a Civil Seminar held last Wednesday, November 28, in Room 113, Engineering Hall, R. E. Hillmjji senior in the Civil Engineering Department, was the speaker. His subject was “Notes on Highway Engineering.”The discussion covered the subject of n e w road building projects, the way in which they are brought to the highway en­gineer for solution, as well as the preliminary work of running surveys and selecting the best routes for transportation. At a later 
seminar .the methods used by a highway engineer in building roads will be discussed by another mem­ber of the Civil Engineering De­partment.
One of the best helps to the stu­dent is a dependable fountain pen. The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcadc will sell you a pen with "exchange” privileges so you can be sure that your hand is “fitted.” They also repair old pens of all makes. Mention this article for special consideration.
Alumnae Open Art Shop 
For Carnegie Students
Three former Carnegie art stu­
dents—Kathlyn McGraw, ’24; Edith 
Reilley, '22, and Mary Shaw, '21— 
arc developing a unique plan to 
dispose of the handiwork of Pitts­
burgh artists.
Having discovered that the mak­
ing of art objects is one thing but 
that selling them is quite another. 
Miss McGraw, aided and abetted 
by Misses Shaw ' and Reilley, 
rented a three-story house'' near 
the Nixon Theater and went into 
business under the name of "The 
Studio.”
In effect, these three young 
pioneers arc agents for local art­
ists. After several weeks of mis­
sionary work, the trio succeeded 
in securing a miscellaneous col­
lection of art objects from Carnegie 
Tech art teachers, students and 
other local artists, and have put 
them on display in The Studio.
They arc now ready to do busi­
ness and invite all Carnegie Tech 
students and faculty to call. Callers 
will find paintings, etchings, water 
colors, pencil sketches, sculpture, 
pottery, jewelry, small wooden ob­
jects, gift boxes, book-binding, 
Christmas and other greeting cards, 
brass and copper objects, etc., all 
of which is hand made by Pitts­
burgh artists. In addition, these 
young ladies make it clear, any 
one who has an art object to sell 
is invited to use The Studio as 
the agency to dispose of it at 
whatever price the artist names 
less a commission for the upkeep 
of the studio.
CARNEGIE TEAM TO
RECEIVE CIT/ CHAM­
PIONSHIP TROPHY
(Continued from Page 1)
Scotch Plaid and win the City 
title.
On January 12, the official ban­
quet will be given in honor of the 
Carnegie football squad by the 
Varsity Clan and the Pittsburgh 
Clan. This banquet will bn held 
at the William Penn Hotel at 12 
o'clock.
CARNEGIE PROF.
WRITES TEXT FOR 
EDUCATIONAL SERIES
(Continued from Page 1)
make possible an efficient and eco­nomical itinerary of visitation. Pro­fessor Nyquist met this very prob­lem during his administration as Director of the Department of Pub­lic School and Community Art in Winston-Salem and his solution and conclusions .are drawn from actual situations in the supervisory field.
JAMES M'GRATH, SENIOR,
NEW PRESIDENT OF A. R. C.
Alpha Rho Chi, national architec­tural honorary fraternity, held its annual election of officers on the evening of Tuesday, November 6. James McGrath, senior, was elected president of the organization. Thor Loivo, also a senior, was elected to the office of vice president, and Edward Rcidcmcicr, secretary, and Fail Allendorf, treasurer.Alpha Rho Chi calls its members from the department of architec­ture, choosing those who have dis­tinguished themselves in their work.
TECH BAKERY
AND
CONFECTIONERY
323 SO. CRAIG STREET 
Wholesale and Retail 
Fruit and Groceries
All Makes of Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—ATLANTIC 8320 
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg. Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AVE. 428 FOURTH AVE.
Christmas Spending
Don’t let your heart run away with your head, 
folks.
Plenty of gifts—most certainly—but gifts of the 
right kind—Sensible Gifts.
And don't go in debt to splurge.
Give generously within your means, but always 
lceep in mind the limits of your pocketbook.
Remember that TRUE FRIENDSHIP never 
. thinks of a gift’s MONEY VALUE.
The SPIRIT back of the giving is what counts.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes Street
QUALITYSTUDENT PRICES
Daschbachs Restaurant and Dining Hall
3808 FORBES STREET
Intelligence Test
Instructor — "Life Insurance ? ”
The Class (at one man, •without hesitationij—»> 
"John Hancock”
Instructor (beaming n-iih joy)—
'‘Class dismissed. Your I. Q. is 13a."
SStr
Life Insurance Company^r GENREAL SMNNMBY—NTRRN
ALUMNI NEWS
This
Changing
World
95-6 07DHGENERAL ELECTRIC
¦NEW YORK LIFE BUILDING
Reproduction from an old print showing one of the steps toward present day_ Vertical Transportation.
ONWARD AND UPWARD
F
ODAY Civilization marches onward and upward. The development 
of a city requires tall buildings which increase land values by giving 
added income from costly real estate.
The elevator by making the skyscraper possible has in this way added, 
untold wealth to the cities of the world.
Developed step by step from the crudest early apparatus, the modern, 
elevator is a marvel of mechanical genius—speedy, safe, dependable.
Since Elisha Graves Otis produced the first safe elevator in 185a, Otis 
has been the “World’s Word for Elevator Safety^.
T~<lay, you can see big build­
ings erected noiselessly—by 
electric welding.
The structural stecJ. worker is 
dropping his clattering ham­
mer for the electric arc. Silently, 
swiftly, rigidly, economically, 
buildings are being fabricated 
by electric welding, which knits 
steel with joints as strong as 
the metal itself.
Building silently! Nothing 
seems impossible in this elec­
trical age.
Not. only in building construc­
tion,but in every human activity, 
we instinctively turn to electric­
ity to add to the comforts of 
life and to eliminate the wastes 
of production—another evi­
dence that the electrical industry 
is maintaining its leadership in 
this changing world.
Not only industrial equipment, 
but clectric refrigerators, SMODM 
lamps, and little motors that1add 
to the comforts of home, are 
manufactured by the General 
Electric Company. All are identi­
fied by the G-E monogram—a 
symbol of service.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER i. 1928.THE CARS’ EG! E TARTAN
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTSXLhc Carnegie flMaib
THE OFFICIAL 
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PAGE.
¡ross
-•r/, 
/fi k. 
fcht: £bun
rrotVstij.
: s c
Night Student Council If
Thanksgiving Dance j YES
Most Notable Function Ever Staged 
by the N. S. C.
The Night Student Council- Thanksgiving Rcccss Dance was held in the Union Friday evening, No­vember 30. Quite naturally, Thanks­giving time is a time to give thanks. The night student is thankful to the administration for a night off from class work, and he should be doubly thankful that he had the opportunity to spend this evening at such a line affair as the Thanksgiving Dance. Sweet ladies.^ and tine gentlemen made up the greatest crowd that has ever attended a dance given by the Night Student Council. The floor of the Union had been especially waxed .for the occasion and was in excellent condition.
Thanks to Jimmy Zummo’s or­chestra for its splendid performance. Ten pieces, including three saxo­phones and two coronets, harmonized in sweet strains and good tempo to render the very latest dance hits. Their director, a rotound ’ little fel­low, certainly did his utmost to get all he could out of the brass, and he certainly succeeded. The high spot of the orchestra performance was the way one of its members was able to juggle his neck tie on his Adam’s apple while singing “Cin­
namon Cake.”
The program was a dainty little thing done in purple. The Carnegie Night Insignia appeared on the front cover, while the bacK cover was graced by a small picture -of His Barnyard Majesty, King Turkey, as he appears the day before Thanks­giving. The dances were enumer­ated inside the covers, and-each was named some befitting Tech title; for instance, Carpenter’s Walk, Engi­neer’s Strut, etc.
The chaperons for the dance were Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Pfouts. Mr. Pfouts is head instructor of pattern- making in the Industries College. Night students thank them for honor­ing the occasion with their presence.Punch and cakes were served be­tween dances. These were delicious and wholesome. Thanks to the boys who were so kind to serve them.
Many thanks arc due Mr. McDon­ald and his associates for the splen­did way in which this affair was handled. Details such as checking facilities, programs, ventilation, re­freshments, etc., were all that could 
be desired.
But there is one thing for which thanks cannot be* given. That is the conspicuous absence of some of the older familiar faces seen around the 6 night classes for the past three years. Some of the older fellows there looked hard for their friends in an effort to exchange a dance or 
two.Thanks lo the Night Student Couiicil, there will be another occa­sion to get together. Remember the -next dance, Post Holiday Dancc, 
January 12, 1929.Thank you. ^
DR. BAKER PUBLISHESTANGIBLE RESULTS
(Continued from Page 1)
“It would seem to be the natural thine: for the Carnegie Institute- of Technology to organize a similar 
meeting in the course of the next 
two or three years.”
. EDMUND TARBELL WINS POPULAR PRIZE AT EXHIBIT
(Continued from Page 1)
“Girl Crocheting.” He has won practically all the important awards offered in this country and is rep­resented in all the large museums 
and galleries.Mr. Tarbell was born at West Groton, Massachusetts, in 1862. He received his training at the Art School of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. Later he became an instructor in drawing and painting ;it this school, and still later be­came principal of the Corcoran School of Art, Washington, D. C. At present Mr.- Tarbell lives at 
Boston.This is the fifth time a Popular < Prize has been awarded _ in con­nection with the Carnegie Inter­national. In 1924 and 1925 Mal­colm Parcel I won this prize, in 1926 Leopold Seyftert won it, and last year it was won by Carl Mcl- chcrs for his painting “The Hunt­
ers.”The International Exhibition will close this Sunday, December 9th.
DIRECTOR JEWETTCONTINUED LECTURESERIES LAST WEEK
(Continued from Page 1) -----------
Jewett told the class the manner in which the major companies ^ set the pay of their employees. First, the relations of the various classes of skilled labor to the class of actual laborers on a wage basis is decided. That is, the company may decide that a machinist is -worth one and three-quarters the pay of the laborer. Second, a suitable rate must be calculated for the laboring class. The wage rate is then set by multiplying the laborer’s wage by the number set as the relation between the laborer and any particular type of worker. Often, this system is more satis­factory than any other due to the fact that a wage is more easily decided for the laboring class than for the other classes. Types of wage levels such as, a "living wage” and a "luxury wage/’ were 
discussed.What the management should do in the event of a strike was the final topic to be discussed. The basis of settling a strike should be first to come to a general under­standing. then_ to decide the ques­tion of a basis of the companies’ book?. However in industries •which, are properly built up and managed there should seldom be cause for a strike.
Wouldn’t you love 
to just repeat 
The fun you had
last Friday night?
Then don’t forget
to make your date 
For the Night Arts Dance 
in the vcrjr same place, 
On Saturday night,
December EIGHTH. 
And don’t you' think
We’ll .aiT have fun, Wearing crazy hats '-And drinking punch And getting hot?And it's all FREE This affair of ours! .
And now I ask you Will you be there With your best girlto join the gang For Art's sake?.
Night Engineering
Banquet December IS
Additional Information Concerning 
This Function
Final preparations for the Night 
Engineers banquet to be held in the 
Roosevelt hotel on December 15, are rapidly nearing completion,. The offi­cers are striving to. make this affair one of the biggest and best func­tions ..ever sponsored by the Engi­neers and to succccd in this respect will be some achievement since these have been some .very good affairs, in the past.The ticket sales are'in charge of two groups—the Red sales, team of which S. 0. Hough is captain and the Blue team of which E. D. Smith is captain. Each captain has his own team selling tickets and the man who sells the ’argcst number of tickets will receive a prize the na­ture of which is not lo be divulged until the night of the banquet. This feature should stimulate the ticket sale considerably. Patronize your favorite salesman and help him to win the prize. Incidentally, the cap­tains are not eligible to receive the reward.For those who arc new at Car­negie it might be well to mention that each year you pay a dollar for activities and perhaps you have won­dered where it is used. Well, part 
of it goes to defray the expenses for the Election Smoker and the Spring Entertainment Smoker, and part of the expense of the banquet. The smokers of coii££,<?, are held and no charge is made at the door. As regards the banquet however, the ad­mission is $2.50, which covers the cost of the food and hall and part of the entertainment.Last year about ISO men attended and the officers arc anxious to top this figure this year. Malovitch of the Civil group has not missed one in nine years; so draw your own conclusions. Get your ticket now!
Industry—Printing Pro* 
fession a Leading Factor
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Excels in This Department
The word industry is defined as meaning “useful labor in general," and perhaps, no single department at Carnegie more clearly exemplifies this than the Department of Print­ing. Let us consider at this timebut one portion, the machine compo­sition department.In this department we find theLinotype, and other closely related' type-casting and slug-casting ma­chines. The Linotype is no doubt one of the greatest inventions of mankind. Consider what the world would be like today without ournewspapers, books and magazines which arc all composed on linotype machines. Before its invention, about 1885, it required much pain­staking effort,, patience and, at times, many months for a printer to com­pose a book by hand. This branch of production at the present, time can be completed in a day on the 
Linotype.This paper you arc now reading could not be possible in this size were it not for this marvelous ma­chine. All commercial and industrial concerns, whether large or small, use printed matter. Direct mail adver­tising, conceded to be the most ef­fective medium of selling, is to a great extent made possible by the Linotype. Reading, the greatest means of common education, is made economically possible by the use of this machine in the produc­tion of books and other educational 
literature.The Linotype while not the most beautiful machine in the world as far as appearance is concerned, is as intelligent if not more so than the operator. It' never makes a mis­take, never complains of being over­worked, it obeys every command of the operator from the touching of a key which releases a matrix, to the engaging of the clutch that drives the cam shaft. This cam mechanism is the very brain of the machine and governs _ each phase of operation more efficiently and with a better consideration of the time clement than any human being. The machine asks no compensation but if given a little consideration and attention occasionally will last many, many years. Several machines throughout the country have been in constant operation for 30 years or more, and are as efficient today as when they 
left the factory.All of us, directly^ or indirectly, depend upon the printing department as a whole for our news and in­formation but in the final analysis 
it is the Linotype machine that has made possible much of our present- dav prosperity.
. -J. P. L.
Book Review: What the 
Night Arts Are Reading
Say. 'What's all the fuss about? 
Who was it said that Morlcy Calla­
han's book “Strange „ Fugitive" 
(Scribncr’s) was good? What a 
loose screw lie turned out to be! 
Getting off to a slow start, the book 
loses in intensity what it gains in 
plot, and then, there being nothing 
better to do, the author kills off the 
hero. Ho-hum comma and alack a- 
day. Why didn’t lie do that in the first place and make a short story of it? i (Callahan, by the way, is noted for his short stories in one of the higher magazines.)This novel about the foreman of a lumber yard who turns bootlegger and, later, murderer (under circum­stances that could happen only in books) has only oAe tiling to com­mend it. Even this has been done before. Anyway, it is the trick of writing as the characters think, the author leaving out comment. The ending may thrill or disgust you— depending upon whether or not you have eaten previously to picking up the hook. I was thoroughly dis­gusted.Enter the hero! Along conics the house of Duf field with Gcrhardi’s new book, “Eva’s Apples." What a book! What a book! This spark­ling story of the affairs of a group of very modern people readies the heights of the deliciously ridiculous aiid having attained that dizzy height .stays there, to the reader’s delight. Arnold Bennett is reputed to have said that the only thing wrong with Gerhardi is that lie doesn’t write enough books. What truth the Ven­erable speaks! Incidentally, Bennett is in the book—as an author, too, and still writing stories!Gather round people, here is glam­orous seduction. Ben Iieclit is the only other one of whom I know who can raise a seduction scene to a level not obnoxious to the most fin­icky - reader. Here is Rabelaisian humor. Here is a conclusion for you! The story goes berserk in the en^l and leaves the characters with a new and better life to live—making the world over to suit themselves. Don’t laugh. It’s really foolish but intensely interesting.I can’t bear to think of the fact that -the same publishing house would, put out two such widely di­verging books. Along camcs "You" by G. S. Donisthorpe to nauseate a perfectly harmless critic. It is the love story of a modern girl for an unscrupulous bounder. Such mcan- dcrings and ravings as the girl goes through. Oh, my!"You" will thrill the* school girl, unless she is a female Skippy and knows better, and those who read love stories. Something ought to be done about this.Stay away from “Unforbidden Fruit” (H. Livcrlight.) I just got around to reading it and now 1 know that instinct was right; 1 should have kept away. Three girls from different schools told me that Warner Fabian’s “expose" is all wet. And they are each going with differ­ent “sets" and none know the others. Where Fabian obtained his informa­tion is the question. Certainly it is not entirely true. Even some things that arc bandied about among boys, ancnt girl’s schools, ijre not as mor­bid or as perverted as what he re­veals.“A Couple of Quick Ones” (R. M. McBride) is by a new, writer, Eric Hatch. Watch this baby! If his next book lives up to the promise in this short one—oh, boy! This diary of a young man who inherits little money but a big desire for “a couple of quick ones” from his departed njalc relative;, swings merrily along relating how the hero quarrels with his first 'love; how lie drowns his love for- her, or so he supposes; how he wakes up to find himself married to flic leading lady of the musical comedy he is financing; how he settles down; how he comes home one day tj find Jiis wife has gone and lie is free again; how he gets gloriously drunk and inglorious- ly better,- only to'get happily stewed once more; how he makes a silly bet which turns out not to be so silly after all since it was an indirect cause of-bringing back his , first love; and how he finally marries her, 'liv­ing happily ever afterwards.Parts of it arc written with a lyrical sweetness not often found in such books. The part where he comes home and hears his wife sing an “I Wanna Go Back" song is sure
Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student
ning, December .8, In the Union. 
Dancing will be from 9 to 12 to mu­sic furnished by the Black Cat or­chestra which has played several en­
gagements on the Campus and is 
well liked by the dancers. Novelties will be provided for ttic girls and programs for the .men. Tickets will
He distributed this 
you not be able lo lot that keep you dance.
Well, getting like Will Rogers in the respect that all I know is from reading the newspapers, so it seems that Carnegie has been left out of the Tournament of Roses football game. Georgia Tech, instead, has been invited and we ccrtainly wish them luck. One consolation, any­how, is that we found that N. Y. U. was not unbeatable, liarpstcr had the right dope when lie said that football was ¦ nothing more than ups and downs. There’s a right smart lad and we certainly were glad to sec him make the All Eastern team. Now that the foot­ball season is over there is nothing to do but settle down for one grind of study and work until Old Sol returns North again.Speaking of football again brings back memories of seeing the team play in the Carnegie Bowl. It’s some jump from there to the Sta­dium everyone will admit. How­ever, the biggest kick was when you would go out to the old stamp­ing grounds and get a scat down front and then one could hear the signals being called, the players talking and warning cacli other and every play was right under your nose. Every one knew the players by sight and one was not bothered with anything except football. Now you arc continually having both sides caved in, and trying to get a glimpse of the field now and then to see if there really is a game. Progress is need­ed in everything we realize, but still there arc times when there is just a little tingue of homesickness to go back to the old way.Some of the study halls seem to be in pretty bad shape as far as good lights arc concerned. They may be alright in the day time when artificial lights arc not need­ed, but in the night—well, that’s a horse of a different color—An­
other small thing in connection with these rooms is the fact that quite a few of the chairs are brok­en. This would make about the worst combination—poor lights and 
bad chairs—under which to study that we can tlnnk of.
Well, if you were not at the dance, you missed a good time. What a crowd! Never knew you could get so many people in the Union and don’t think you didn't notice it when you were dancing Wonder if there could bo any ob­jection to change the location of this affair to sonic other place where there would be more room. It would cost more money to be sure, but it, ccrtainly would be worth it. To me a dance is more interesting to watch than to par­ticipate in, but the G. F. says we dancc and so wc try to, anyhow. After about three or four danccs, however, she dccidcs that that is about all the punishment she wants and then we go home. Wonder who the two fells were who were wondering who was K. Was stand­ing right beside them and dccidcd to move before they said some­thing that we were not supposed to hear, Hate eavesdropping, any­how. Most of the music was good. 
By most is meant everything but the waltzes. It seems foolish for orchestras to play picces written in waltz time as no one seems to do that dancc anyhow.
Wonder what happened to the offer of Puppet’s. Funny that out of approximately thirty-five hun­dred men not ten or fifteen were willing to help make this a go. Is this any indication that our school 
spirit is lessening or is it just a cose that everybody is so busy that there is no time for such activities? Let’s hope that it is the latter.K.
to make your heart beat just a little 
faster. Read it! And that’s that!
Last minute nolicc! Keep about 
14 miles away from “Boston" (A. 
and C. Boui) Upton Sinclair's latest distemper. The one voter who voted for the Socialistic candidate in Osh- 
gosli, Okla., or wherever it was he lived, will rush out and buy this two volume five dollar rc-cffusion of the Sacco-Vanzctti case. I, for one, am satisfied that it .turned out the way it did. Anyway, why bring up a question that has bccji definitely settled, for the most part, in peo­ple’s minds? If the sale of this book docs not soon fall, it ccrtainly reflects on the intelligence of the American reader to be taken in by such an obviously money-making proposition as this tabloid novel.—E. D. L.
Cambridge, Mass.—The theory that the American college student of the eighteenth century, and the seventeenth centurv for that mat­ter—was “so incurably addicted to studious piety that he found little time for play and none for dissi­pation,” suffered a severe jolt re­cently through revelations of stu­dent habits in diaries and records now in the possession of Harvard university. Brawls, hazing, wrang­ling with the faculty and general disorderly conduct were more char­acteristic of students' behavior at 
that time.Among these records is an in­cident, recorded by one Ezra Clapp, a student at Yale in 1738, who says:.“Last night som'c of the frcsh- inen got six quarts of rhum and about two payls of syder, and about eight pounds of sugar and made it into Samson, and invited every scholar in college into Cur­tis's room, and we made such pro­digious rought that we raised the tutor, and he ordered us all to our rooms, and some went and some tarried, and they gathered again and went up to old Father Mon- sh'cr's dore and drummed against the dore and yeled and screamed so that a body would have thought they were killing dogs there."Other incidents related in Cotton Mather's diarj', while a student at Harvard, show that ministers' sons began as early as 1644 to get their reputations. Mather _ told of an incident where two minister’s sons, students -at Harvard, robbed two dwellings in the night of 15 pounds and, being found out, were whipped by the President of the college.
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
I Bank Where You Live
| There are innumerable advan-
| tages in banking where you are
living.
We offer you every feature of 
modern banking.
Night Arts Dance
December 8th, 1928
First Social Function of Night College Year
In America there is an admittance fee at almost every form of enter­tainment. Therefore, the average cit­izen; accustomed to paying for his shows and danccs believes that any­thing free is not worth while attend­ing. Undoubtedly, ' the School of Drama had this problem to solve when it first opened the doors of its theater. Gradually it has been dis­covered by its audience that its per­formances arc really worth while and so a scarcity of tickets has re­sulted. Now the Social Committee of. the Night School of Fine Arts desires to run successfully a free (lance. The expenses .are paid out of the activities fee paid at registra­tion, so although free dancc is men­tioned, it is not truly the case. Hence, it i.s up to the individual to get his money's worth from the fee already paid.Although primarily a Night Arts affair, the friends of those registered 
in this school arc wclcomc. The af­fair is scheduled for Saturday eve-
week l'l" 
obtain away a«ty
HEAT-
the instant you want it
The moment you are ready for your gas 
flame, it springs into full action!
Likewise, at your will, it is instantly and 
completely extinguished.
When you use gas, there is no carrying 
over of fires during periods when heat is 
not wanted.
Nor is time lost in bringing a lire up to 
the required temperature.
This feature alone of gas for industrial 
uses is important. It represents a val­
uable saving of time; conservation of 
man-power, and economy of operation.
More than that, the flexibility of gas,
which makes possible this very fcafcu' 
insures per/ect temperature control 1 
every manufacturing process.
Quite naturally, this makes for improv 
products and fewer rejections.
Considering all* the many advanta 
afforded by gas—of which these are by 
few—it is no wonder that industry ip 
day employing gas in 60,000 diffcri 
ways!
Your local gas company will be glad 
tell you how gas can be profitably «• 
ployed in your plant. Telephone or w 
to them—your inquiry will not oblij: 
you.
For free cop y of book, “Industrial Gas Heat", address
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City 
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS
W/ifh most honorable
approval"
r'lJV
'I
I
When the Most Honorable Tourist enters a 
Japanese shop, experienced travelers tell us, 
he is instantly struck by the elegant bareness 
of the shelves. The astute Eastern merchant 
discloses his wares one piece at a time, working 
down frorfi the choicest to an eventual sale.
If our local tobacco shops were conducted 
on the Japanese system, we venture to predict 
that Chesterfield would be the first cigarette
offered — and about eight times out of ten 
there’d be a sale on die spot!
At least that’s what the sales figures indicate 
— over six million' smokers keep asking for 
Chesterfield and the salesmen all know it.
And no wonder, you smokers. You who 
have tried ’em know there’s no need to sell 
Chesterfields — that mild different flavor just 
puts itself over.
CHESTERJFIELE
MILD enough for anybody., and yet., THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT * M-rr.ES ;

---------------------------------------------------

First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST.. PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. Mi 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
The Way 
to Independence
The surest method of attain­
ing financial independence is 
through systematic saving, begun 
early. Instead of the false thrift 
that makes you sacrifice much 
happiness, the right kind of sav­
ing. carried on regularly over a 
period of years, will provide th« 
means for happiness now aa 
•well as in the future.
A savings account at th« 
Mellon National Bank pay* 
4% interest compounded 
Bcmi-ftnmmlly.
mm
, Mu'ftpfj- . 'C3' VitUF.5
CimiSTMA/ Edmm
unTna Erbredl
ov)QOtS^ • ¦> and h.>
I Orche/tm ¥P
*'/.¦ -i' A
Wm.Penn BaliRoom 5.50 December. 2$ 
9 till 2 .. .
SCHENLEYSTRANDMANOR
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
WEDNESDAY
WINGS
CLARA BOW 
CHARLES ROGERS
TMUK.SDAY-1'IÏ I ID AY.SATURDAY
RONALD COLEMAN 
VILMA BANKY
in “TWO LOVERS”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
ALICE WHITE
in “SHOW GIRL”
W1ÏDNESDAY-THURSDAYBESSIE LOVE
in “ANYBODY HERE 
SEEN KELLY?”
FRIDAY 
DOUBLE ATTRACTION 
Joan Crawford in “OUR 
DANCING DAUGHTERS”
—AND—
Charlie Murray in “THE 
HEAD MAN"
SATURDAY
KEN MAYNARD
in “GLORIOUS TRAIL”
MONDAY-TUESDAYWALLACE BEERY
in “BEGGARS OF LIFE”
WEDNESDAY
“WINGS”
With
Clara- Bow—Charles Rogers
THURSDAY
LEWIS STONE
in “FOREIGN LEGION”
FRIDAYRICHARD DIX
in “Moran of the Marines”
SATURDAY—MATINEE
KEN MAYNARD
in “GLORIOUS TRAIL”
SATURDAY—EVENINGCONRAD NAGEL
in “Caught in the Fog”
— Hardware — Electric Supplies
aikland Hardware Co.
A 0923 Iroquois Block
Standard Makes of Tires
ISHBY & MINTEER TIRE SERVICE
ANIZING—COMPLETE TIRE SERVICE
rond Street, Ei\»t End Hilnnd 1460
tial Notice Students
let's Renew Old Friendship
'Ready at Allj Times to Solve Your Formal Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories fronv us. 
STYLES ALL SIZES
ecial Student Ratesington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
lantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
Comp¿Lf ii¿ Humtros
nui K TARTAN , TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4. 1928.
A pencil put Peary on top 
of the world
OTHER explorers had great personal 
courage, unlimited energy and vision 
untrammelled; and failed. But Peary had 
one thing more.
He had the grasp of every detail 
— as seen in the care which guided 
the pencil in his frost-cramped hand. 
After each day’s march he calculated 
a methodical course to make sure of
the next day’s progress to the Pole.
To face each day’s reckoning as if it 
were the most important of all days is 
¡i characteristic of men in the telephone 
J industry. That viewpoint, expressed in 
the varied terms of applied science, lab­
oratory research, financing and man­
agement, guides Bell System men in their 
respective fields of public service.
BELL SYSTEM
t/i- nation-wide lyitern tf 18,500,000 inter-connecting téléphona
:al Indian
i'clics Being Sought
it!i* to determine hitherto 
! points in the pre-colonial 
'( Pennsylvania, the Pcnn- 
Indian Survey Committee 
iuled a campaign for dis­
graces of Indians in the 
i<: committee has sent out 
throughout the state re­
alty one who finds Indian 
send information concern- 
,n into headquarters at 
arm, Pennsylvania, 
great historical value lies 
fitly worthless arrowheads, 
ttcry, etc., the Indian Sur- 
imiUce urges that no relic 
of) Iced. The article to- 
villi complete information 
)fi sent in to the committee, 
J. ¡'wishing to determine the
I Indian articles may secure 
Irjn by communicating with 
’ 'ning Historical and Gc-
Socicty at Wilkes-Barre,
p------------------
.n Steinberg to 
cstime Work Shortly
v'ccii'e Van Steinberg, in- of dressmaking in the Economics Departmentof . C. C., who has been ill, is in the St. Francis Hos- icuperating. Upon her ro­om a tour of Europe this iss Van Steinberg resumed cl/ing duties, but her work too strenuous and after a ckjs, she retired to the hos- .lcirc she intends to remain tcir the Thanksgiving vaca- \.f|ter Miss Van Steinberg lpijctely regained her health,II i return to Carnegie to i her work..g Miss Van Steinberg's ab- Miss Richards, Miss Craw- Nd1 Kathryn Stevenson, a n1 the Home Economics i ';rt, arc instructing her It is probable that Miss tei'iberg will be able to kc her work again in the iturc, as reports from the state that she is regain- hcalth rapidly.
Fiction, Romance and Burlesque Crowd
The Lines of “The Pleasure Garden”
Fiction, romance, burlesque, spic­ed with the cruel irony of fate, the hollow, bitter trials of life, literally crowd the lines of the Drama Department’s latest efforts, "The Pleasure Garden," This, the work of Beatrice Mayor, is a feeble, and at tidies a wholly un­satisfactory attempt at a. cross sec­tion of life, undertaking as it does, to include altogether too many and too varied a selection of charactcrs to be complete and entertaining.Throughout the four acts, we find a blundering student of Na­tural History, who has forsaken his book on Crabs, in an effort to discover the "whys” and "where­fores'’ of life. Wandering through a public garden, lie discovers, in his own dumb way, many types and classes of people, rich and poor, good and bad, all apparently disgusted with life. Though some of the situations which arise arc quite entertaining, any continuity, or even a suggestion of continuity that the pTay might have, is lost in the provoking ending. The cumulative story, which this pro­duction fails in any measure to attain, seems nonsense to some who have not studied it and who do not know its importance as the first expression of the succession of ideas and their relative value. With the exception of one, or perhaps two scenes, it is a medi­ocre presentation of ordinary hack­
neyed character#.The difference between dramatic personation and what might be
called sympathetic participation is quite important and it is evident that it is felt by only a few of the Drama students. Personation is on a lower plane, of mere con­trast and excitement, while par­ticipation gives a suggestion of real feeling, a sensing of the char­acter to be portrayed. In the writer's opinion, there were but three in the production who have really readied this point, arid at times showed the spark of rare talent. Thomas Fisher, as a derc- lict actor, came quite up' to ex­pectations, displaying a remarkable versatility in being able to portray a high priest and a hardened actor in the brief span of one month. Irene Tcdrow and Florence Wake­field should share also !n the laurel wreaths for this production. Miss Tcdrow, as Topsy, a woman with a past and no restrictions on the fut' re, gave a brilliant and wholly entertaining interpretation of the character, adding considerably to her growing string of successes.Essaying the part of a crazy woman, a part requiring a mint of patience and even more ability, Florence Wakefield again readied the heights of which she is at all times capable. Through her splendid handling of the part, it was made forceful and convincing. Others whose work was not quite as outstanding but at. the same time 'showed real effort, were, Jack Woolcy, Annabelle Kempton, Gar­land Kerr, William Johns and Arne Bocson. 1C Q. V.
THOMAS SPOONER SPEAKS 
AT A. I. E. E. MEETING, DEC. 5
STUDENTS OF 300 ï'EARS 
AGO THE SAME AS TODAY
TRIAL STUDENT DINNER IN REC
HALL TOMORROW
dustrial Student Dinner for at Pitt, Pennsylvania Col- ' Women, Carnegie Tech, ‘libers of the Girls' Indus- ,lb will be held tomorrow, ir 5, at 6:30 p. m. in the pn Hall under the aus- ^tlVc Y. W. C. A. The 
If under the direction oí fjWagdey. As yet neither 
ler nor the complete pro- W been announced./gs nf this ^ nature are [t'c. or four times annually |-r,iegie women as hostesses, iiiire of these meetings is discussion and denis with yclhi.s and experiences. of ndustry as related to those in qollege,iial appeal is made to Car- imcii In 1>«* present at this
R. O. T. C. UNIFORMSRECEIVE MUCH COMMENT
(Continued from Page 1)
their slantwise cut, a soldier wcar- ing one can never prove, by ap­pearances at least, that he is'‘en­tirely sober.”
THF. CAK.-v
DANCING
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
nosinners Monday and Fridny. Eve­
nings. Advanced',, Thursday nnd Satur- 
dny Evenings. Private lessons by ap­
pointment. Mayflower 7891
See tham on display at
J. R. SCHUIB— MEN’S SHOP 
4314 Center Are., just »hov« 
Craiir St.
M PFAFF, WELL
KNOWN PRINTER
ntiiMied from Page I)
The four men who have jurntiod lo Lif Le judgesK.. ! G. : G rc s s, editor of ric.an Printer; Mr. J. L. editor nf the Inland Mr. I1'. J. Hartman, Di­ll l'Educatimi in the United tai; J Association of Chi­ld Mr. A. C. Jewett, Hi ' I lie College of Industries
jjrnuing Department has Uni|ber of calls from the Hs in Pittsburgh for sub- chers in printing and •ssfully tilled the tom- ancy. On an average i,dents from those who ich year from the De­bí Printing go into Dsitions.uni ni 'of the Printing . have visited Carnegie 'year during the major ?anvcs played in town, anldj N. Y. U. games •ought a number back a Mater. Some of r' who came back are: ixler, O. A. Dickman, , all of New York; F. 5 i of Rochester, Ñ. Y.: jidV^ of Blanchcstcr, O.; I man of Irwin, Pa.: C. h o of Jamestown, N. Y., ,gg of Washington. Most uiinni are now occupying positions in the print -
College , students of today have nothing on their Puritan exem­plars.Brawls, hazing, wrangles with the faculty, extreme dress, excess smok­ing, the reading of bad books, the holding of "senseless” and disor­derly commencements, religious negligence, free thinking, wayward­ness—all such portentous outbreaks and disrespectful conduct, which, we are told, mark the spirit of the Twentieth century collegiate, played as apparently large a part in the lives of the college student three hundred years ago. ,Dr. Henry W. Lawrence, Pro­fessor of History, Connecticut Col­lege, has revealed these facts in his new book, “The Not-Quitc Puritans,” the material for which has been gathered from such au­thentic sources as contemporary church records, diaries and his­tories."We commonly think of the American college man of the Seven­
teenth and Eighteenth ccnturics as so incurably addicted to s.tijdious piety that lie found little time for play and none for dissipation," writes Lawrence. "It is hard to reconcile with this view such an incident as the following—recorded by one Ezra Clapp, in 1738."J.ast night,” this earnest: Yale student has recorded, "some of the freshmen got six quarts of Rlfum; and about two payls fool of Sydar and about eight pounds of sugar and mad it in to Samson, and evited ever scholcr in college into Chnrtis is room, and wc mad such prodigious Nought that we raised 
the Tutor, and lie ordered u? all to our rooms and some went and some taricd and they gathered a gain and went up to old father i*' wisher dore and drumed against the dore and yolocl and screamed so that a bodcy would have thought they were killing dotlgs there. . .""Potting," Lawrence tells us, was quite as much, if not more, of aproblem three hundred years ago than now, although it did not play as large a part in the college boy's life, there being no co-eds and few girls' schools in college vicinities. Hut despite the immediate absence of the fairer sex, the college fopabounded; to such an extent, in fact, that laws had to be made to regulate the clothing worn.For instance, in ‘ 1/54 the under­graduates of Harvard College were forbidden lo wear silk "night- Tlicsc were a sort ofgown of silk or damask,for printers and importers, but lo.» luxurious for eol- students,” writes l.awrcnce, "plain- thinking and high living were not to be tolerated by day or it might seem.”from Little, Brown andCompany's “Puritan Collcgiatcs.’’)
There will be an A. I. E. E. meeting tomorrow evening, Decem­ber 5, at 7:30 p. in., in Room 11, Machinery Hall. The speaker for the evening will be M. Thomas Spooner of the Westinghouse Elec­tric and Manufacturing, Company. His subject will be "Research and Invention."Mr/ Spooner is assistant manager of research at Westinghouse Elec­tric and Manufacturing Company, lie, ¡3 a graduate of Bates College and Massachusetts Institute of Technology and has written several books on Electrical Research in ad­dition to many technical articles.An invitation is extended to all members of the Electrical Depart­ment to attend this meeting.
LOST
Late Wednesday, a diamond sap­phire bracelet was lost between the Arts School and the Central Build­ing on WoodlaAvn avenue. Anyone who can give any information re­garding this bracelet should get in touch with Miss Coggcshall in the News Service Bureau on the second floor of the Central Building.
America’s Greatest
Artistic Era At Hand
Chicago.—The greatest • artistic era in the history of the United States is not far off, according to Professor DcWitt lienry Parker of the University of Michigan, who spoke here. He said:"History shows that periods of eiiigh artistic activity usually coin­cide with epochs of political and commercial pre-eminence and into the latter wc have already come."For better or for worse wc have 
lef the day of the ‘whole man’ be­hind. In the growing complexity ot. civilization the problems of life have become so difficult and so numerous that in order to meet them each man must apply his whole nature to a single? one of them, at the cost of integrity of personality. Losing the'* ‘whole­
ness’ which is so characteristic of beauty, and being only fractions of our possible selves, wc are loaded with longings and repressions and 
disfigured with strange inequalities of charactcr.
"Mechanism will go on its.unre- pentcnt way, but play and art will bring us the freedom which wc lack. There is a child within us' that protests against a clock-driven regiment. Play and art furnish a solution, give us back our whole­ness. Play is the antibody, pro­duced by our ‘diseased’ civilization.“The harmony which wc achicvc through play is accomplished by an exclusion of worry and work. The harmony of art’ is one of in­clusion, in which the- whole' re-: sourccs of our personalities are called into action. But, ‘while in forms of play and sport it is con­ceded that America stands the peer of any nation on earth, in art, if we take the sweep of the last bun­dled years, she lias not matched the most artistically gifted nations of Europe.
“VVc are now fast building a tradition and a culture of our own. 
The mechanical, nature of our civi­lization has created a need for art. And that secure hold on economic wealth so necessary for artistic cul­ture has been won. Need and op­portunity -«’ill combine to make the future of art in America immense!”
ANNUAL CHRISTMAS CHAPELTO BE HELD TUES., DEC. 11The annual Christmas Chapel,1 commonly known as “Dr. Baker’s- Chapel,” will be held Tuesday, De­cember 11, at 11:30 o’clock in the Little Theater of the College of Fine Arts. Dr. Baker will conduct: the services.The program planned . by the Music Department will consist of Christmas music. In addition there will be carol singing by students and faculty.
This chapel is sponsored by the Y. M. C. A. Its purpose is .to unite!, students in the promotion of; Christmas holiday spirit on the1 campus.
'Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Special 
Student Rates
Wis ProTnbpl
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
GOG State Theater Btdr.
Brand of Quality 
in our Service
The qualities women ad­
mire, and men, too— 
Original ideàé—Appro­
priate equipment—^And 
perfection of performance 
are found in our catering 
of all affairs.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
^MEN'S SHOES
CRAIG RESTAURANT
CHEWING GUM TEST
HELD NOT FAIR
(Continued from Page 1)
I wonderingly gave Beechnut it’s crcdit!By this time the third victim was resigned to her fate, and accepted Doublcmint very readily. Without a minute’s hesitation, she dccidcd it was "great." Rather bewildered,1 follow'cd with Bccman’s, Beech­nut’s, and Juicy Fruit, and received three concise verdicts in succession —“not so good,” "alright,” and “fair/’ My dope was completely upset for Doublcmint had scorcd. the third victory!Very determinedly I seized upon the fourth assailant, and peeled off the paper of the four sticks of gum, proceeding in much the same man­ner as before. I chose Doublemint first, and to my inquiry was told that it was “not so hot.” Juicy Fruit received the comment of "ab­solutely terrible,” but toward the next piece, Beechnut, there was a decided change in attitude. “Like it; think it’s great,”- clinched the lest for Beechnut, and I hardly heard the “fair, but - not so good 
as the last one,” which was the verdict of Beeman’s contribution,! Beechnut had won again.Now I know why the girls of the campus are- popular; they chew Beechnut! Yet" I am inclined to doubt the results . of our test— believe it or not. It occurred to me later—it takes time for my brain to function—that maybe our 
contestants had worked in “cahoots” with each other, and knowing that Beechnut was the popular gum, had decided to enthuse over that whenever they got a whiff of good ole’ Beechnut flavor. Probably, all of you are remarking how cynical and unbelieving I am, but you just try it yourself and see if you can’t smell and place every kind of chewing gum there is. At any rate we had a perfectly grand time proving bow much We all like 
Beechnut chewing gum., Aiid you just wait and see if every popular girl and boy too on the campus, aspiring to fame, doesn’t imme­
diately spit out her pld favorite brand and lake to. Beechnut just like the “consumptcrs” took to 
“Old Golds.” Me for Beechnut forever.
ANNUAL MINING
AND METALLURGISTS’
BANQUET DEC. 10
Tho Miners and Metallurgists’ Banquet, an annual event on the Carnegie campus,—will be held in the Carnegie Inn, on the evening of December 10, from 6:30 to 8:30. Professor .Aston of the Metallurgy Department, is arranging a pro­gram for the evening' which will] be announced on the compus . bulle­tin boards. The price per plate has been set at .$1.25: All Mining and Metallurgy students' arc in­vited to attend.
SCIENCE STAG WILL BE
HELD IN UNION FEB. 15:
The 1929 Science Stag will be' held in Carnegie-. Unjori February 15, on the same evening as the Arts Ball.Walter D. Bronson has been ap­pointed chairman of the committee, in charge of the stag. Bronson is- a member of Thcta Xi, social fra­ternity, and of Dragon, Senior honorary society. He was a mem­ber of Delta Skull, Junior honor­ary, last year. Other members of the committee are Daniel Barr of the Senior class; Leon Hartman, E. A. Murray, Frank Foote .and Thomas Brown of the Junior class, and John Boyle, Sophomore, and Robert Reynolds of the Freshman- class. The faculty advisor has not 
been appointed'as. yet.
LAST OF DISCUSSION
GROUPS HELD YESTERDAY
(Cpnfinucd-from ' Page 1)
The topics which have been dis­cussed this year are: “The Mean­ing of the Word ‘Belief,’” “The Reality of - idealism and' Material­ism,” and “The Metaphysical Basis of Ethics.”.
FRANCIS BURNS BISHOP,
JUNIOR CHEMICAL, DIES 1
Francis ' Burns Bishop, of Wash­ington, D. C., junior in the Clicmi- I ica'l Department,' passed away, early Saturday morning, j)ccembcr 1, in the Homeopathic Hospital.Bishop was enjoying good health until on Thanksgiving evening when lie was stricken with- acute gastritis. He was taken to the Homeopathic Hospital,’ where lie remained until his death. Relatives arrived shortly after his demise. -The deceased .was in ' his, first year at Carnegie, having transfer­red from George Washington -Uni­versity. In his short -time here he made many friends, and a sin­cere regret of his untimely . death is felt by all who kncwr him.The remains .'were laid to rest yesterday afternoon, December 3, in Washington, D. C.
Delaware, Ohio.—The originalhard luck man on the Ohio -Wes­leyan football squad, is Ted Franz, halfback, who lias been called back- five times in two games- this sea­son, after scoring perfect touch­downs.
Franz trotted across . the enemy goal three times in . an encounter with the ' University of Cincinnati, only to be called.back by penalties.The same thing happened at Wooster, and Franz is getting, dis­gusted. . -
412 South Craig Street
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
PRIZES TO BE GIVEN
AT ARTS BALL
London Man 
Gives Cool Tip 
Smokers Here
London, England 30th December, 1927 
Larus, & Bro. Co.,Richmond, Va.,U. S. A.Gentlemen:As my Christmas present I pur­chased for myself a pound of your to­bacco (Edgeworth) in ,J^;lb. flat tins. This morning on the tram I met a man with whom I am only slightly acquaint­ed, and filling my pipe produced your tin, at whieh he exclaimed: “I am not a pipe smoker, but occasionally I have a try in that direction and I consider that, the tobacco in your hand is the finest made.”I am in entire agreement with his statement.
Yours faithfully,
J. J. Mason
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
The College Man’s 
First Choice
You mil find here more 
than the average number 
of shoe styles just suited to 
the college man’s taste. 
John Wards are preeminent 
as the shoes 
that college 
men prefer.
(Continued from Page 1)
dales. The second deposit will be due December the fourteenth. It is still possible to pay the first deposit.

---------------------------------------------------

¦TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
ALL-AMERICANMinneapolis, Minn.'—S. Paul po­
lice have agreed hereafter to leave 
cases of psychological nature to 
University of Michigan authorities.Mirko J. Rudman, senior in the College of Education, was appre­hended by the police of the twin- city as he was numbering the 2,664th plank on the High Bridge in St. Paul. It was a clear case of insanity, the officers decided. In addition to .Rudman’s peculiar ac­tion, an egg. was found in. his I pocket.
Convinced that their ''case” re­quired a thorough Investigation, the officers put Rudman in a cell overnight.Somebody had . called the police. A man was on the bridge with a gun. When the officers arrived, they found Rudman on his hands
and knees half-way across the span, 
and watched him write number 
2,664 on the 2,664th plank.
"He’s cracked, all right,” the po­
lice muttered as they bundled him into their patrol wagon. "Crazy,’' Captain G. H. Gates wrote on the dockct, “Hold for investigation.”
The investigation was over with when they found a slip of paper in his pocket marked '”Hcll Week Instructions."
He was just a fraternity pledge.
Ann Arbor, Mich.—In order that co-cds in University o,f Michigan dormitories may have first hand accounts of football games away 
from home, they have begun se­lecting a girl each week by lot to go to" the game and report back.
WOMEN’S ATHLETICS
Varsity and Plebe bas~ 
kctball candidates report 
any afternoon at the 
gym. Freshman man­
agers wanted.. Minnie Opter deserves mention, in that she bowled 48 games throughout the season. The aver­age number of games bowled for practice was about 25. Agnes Power has an average score for practice games of 101, the highest average of any girl. Helen White- hill bowled the highest scorcs of the sea’son, 160.All the girls on the class teams will be given Women's Athletic .Points. A few that did not make team, but attended a majority of practices, will also reccivc some \Y. A. A. points.
BOWLING
Again the class of ’30 won first place in the Bowling Tournament. The Juniors have continued their excellent record of last year, by .again rolling up the highest score in the tournament. The Sopho­mores came in- second. They also had a very good team. The ¿Sen­iors barely obtained the third place over the Freshmen by an average score of 70.5 to 69.2 for the Frcsli- men. The average score in the tournament for the Junior team was 82. The Sophomores had an average of 77.' The champion team was com­posed of Fiances Ludlow, Pat Montgomery, Ycra Finkelstein, Helen Krafchychyn, Mary Crago, Helen Whitehill, Nell Ulrich, and Agnes Power. • The average scorc in the tournament, bowled by each; girl, was Ludlow 106, Mongomery 90, Finkelstein 68, Krafchychyn 82, Crago 106, Whitehill 118, Ulrich 92,: and Power 91.The. girls have been practicing everj- Tuesday-and Wednesday for the last live weeks- preparing for the final tournament, which is al­ways held between the four class teams.-
THOMAS LIPPERTFootball and Fraternities
Bitterly bewailing the over em­
phasis on football and caustically 
condemning the viciousncss of fra­
ternities has become the most popu­
lar diversion, of columnists sorely 
pressed for a column. Wc doff 
our hats to the North American 
Review' for its refusal to follow 
the crowd. Wc are indebted to 
its November issue for a vigorous 
defense, not apology, for both the 
so-called emphasis and alleged vi­
ciousness.
• Pointing out- that oft forgotten 
fact that football supports every 
other sport of the university, in- 
.eluding that pet of the academi­cians, intramurals, and that foot­ball fills a deep need in the non- intellectuals life, the need for color, for excitement, for an opportunity to display ardent loyalty for alma mater (or -how to account for crowds of SO,000), the writer claims that all football is suffering from is bloated publicity, which is hardly a serious disease. The perversion in academic values engendered by such publicity which glorifies the athlete at the expense of the scholar, is, " however, too .rapidly glossed over. ,
In another article Dean Moonn of Lehigh, rises to the defense of fraternities, emphasizing the fact that there are two contradictory and antagonistic sets of values striving for supremacy on the cam­pus. The one, backed by the fac­ulty, calls for an intellectual train­ing, for a preliminary glimpse into the cultured life. The other, more popular and more powerful, is sup­ported by the fraternities, who in­sist that intellectual training is a thing of the past and that the uni­versity is properly speaking one rung in the ladder of business suc­cess. The function of fraternities, Dean Moonn adds, lies in the crea­tion of a desire and an ambition in the non-intellectual, who would otherwise degenerate into a tea hound, to participate in cxtra-cir- ncular activities.
TEARING OUR ATTENTION away from what eleven 
men have done, we begin looking over what five passers are 
going to do. Coach John Erwin has not a whole lot of cause 
to hope for a highly successful floor season, but to use his own 
words, “It can’t be worse than last year’s.” Although we are 
not by nature over optimistic or patriotic, we also have hopes 
of shining a little more brilliantly this season than we have in 
the past two.
UNDOUBTEDLY COACH ERWIN will be working un­
der a serious handicap. The poor showing made by -last year’s 
quint has robbed him of the confidence of a number of the play­
ers and the student body as a whole. No coach can expect or 
hope to be a consistent winner. It never was, and never will 
be reasonable. As long as they develop winners, they are the 
last word, but let them once be confronted with a flock of com­
paratively green men, and drop a few games, and they are the 
subject for much pointed criticism.
CARNEGIE NEVER has been noted for their floor squads. 
Interest seems to center on the gridiron while basketball, track, 
swimming, and the rest, are left to shift for themselves, like so 
many stepchildren in bad graces. In football, Carnegie brag­
garts are in their glory, but are immediately squelched at the 
mere mention of basketball. Curiously enough, student inter­
est in basketball seemed to mount last year, despite the suc­
cession of defeats. Every game saw the gym packed to the 
doors, as much so for the final, as for the initial, encounter.
BASKETBALL
Now that the bowling'season is .over, wc can turn our attention to one of the year’s biggest and best .sports for Tech women—basketball. . Practices arc to start this week. The gym will be open for all those interested in basketball, Tuesday and Thursday afternoons from 4:30 on. If enough girls show interest or should desire it, the gym will be open on Friday afternoons also.Jeannette Wilson, of Arts School, is basketball manager for this year. For any further information, see Jeannette.
RUNNING THE PLEBE HARRIERS in the I. C. A. A. 
A.^ A. (Intercollegiate Amateur Athletic Association of America 
—just to show we are not secretive) meet at Van Courtland 
Park, New York, wound up Carnegie’s cross-country season 
definitel}7- and absolutely. This yearly cross-country derby is 
the classic ..in that sport and decides the eastern champions, 
both individual and team.
Some 104 first year men faced the starting tape with. Price 
coming in 32nd and Reichord 54th. The others rolled in in 
various places from there on. First three places went to Uni­
versity of .PeniV Frosh, who linked hands as they broke the 
last tape, winning for their team first place. That is our idea 
of good sportsmanship in trying not to wrest individual honors 
from their own teammates.
There were ten schools entered; Carnegie placed ninth and 
.Columbia rolled in last. No varsity men were entered in the 
corresponding varsity meet.* * # • '• * Ms * *
THE TARTAN BASKETBALL SCHEDULE calls for 
nine games with the "Big Four” schoolsNincluding Pitt, Wash.- 
-Jeff, and-West Virginia. Penn State is also listed among the 
big games.
The first really important battle is scheduled with the 
Mountaineers on Janttary 5, at Morgantown. The Skibos will 
meet the West Virginians in a return game at the Tartan gym­
nasium February 22.
Three contests are slated with the Panthers. The first of 
the three-game series will be played January 11 at the stadium, 
and the third, February 23. The second is slated for January 
23 at the Tartan court. A pair of tilts is also scheduled with 
the Presidents, the first January J (5,. at Washington, and the 
second here February 20, On January, 10, the Tartans will jour­
ney to State College, Pa., to' meet Pehn State. A return jjame 
will be-played^ with the Nittany Lions February 1(>\
“Howdy” Harpcstcr," unanimous choice for quarterback on the myth­ical all-Eastern eleven and the New York Sun’s all-American squad. He should undoubtedly appear in the final selection.ÉUT, ENOUGH ABOUT PAST. HISTORY, and more 
about coming probabilities. ¦ W.é see material which should 
shape together into one first class collegiate quintet but Coach 
Erwin is going to be hard pushed- to-develop-substitutes of egual 
caliber.
CAPTAIN HARVEY WHITE will lead the Plaid .quint 
for the second successive year. White is one of the best guards 
or forwards' that has ever graced the Skibo floor. Pie will be 
an admirable nucleus around which to build a winner. Crum, 
at forward, High, at guard, and Bond, at the tip-off, constitute 
the remainder of the regulars. • -In addition much is expected 
of Bill Brown, letterman from last year, who came out too late 
to really show his ability.
GEORGE ‘NÉASE, freshman star, is practically sure of a 
varsity berth,’ while ' Merton will; probably: give Bond no little 
scrap for center position. Outside of these there are no other 
outstanding available performers. It is only hoped that hitherto 
mediocre players will find some hidden stride and gladden the 
hearts of everyone concerned.
Unlike previous years, practice will not be held up in the 
hope of some football men turning out. If they don’t, the 
squad will not be disorganized, and if they do, so much the 
better.
Easton, Pai—Was a day when the annual football melee between Lafayette còllege and Lehigh uni­versity, ancient gridiron rivals, meant that the visiting fans must come to town with rocks and mud in their pockets. When they left 
the field, few of the missies were left, except as they were embedded in the skins of the rival fans. 
Times have changed, however, and when the rivals met this year it was with an ultimatum in mind, signed by student councils of both institutions, stating that the rival colleges were on strictly friendly terms, and that anyone believing and acting to the contrary might expect to get in trouble.
What, oh what 
to give??
Every year that question — oo 
easily and pleasantly answered 
this Chmtmas by coming to 
Horne’s.
For the ladies, a world of smart 
what-nots. For men, distinctive 
and sophisticated wearthings, ac­
cessories and novelties — gifts 
with a flair to them—in the new­
ly enlarged Store for Men—dedi­
cated to gentlemen of taste.
One shops easily, quickly and 
pleasantly at Horne’s.
WE REPAIR RUBBERS
TECH SHOE REPAIR
420 S. CRAIG STREET 
Shoe Shining - Hat Cleaning
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near CraigIT SEEMS LIKE every paper and magazine, from the 
Higgen's Corner weekly to the Police 'Gazette, is. blazing forth 
its selection for that highly mythical and also very optional All- 
Eastern, All-American,. or All-What-H-ave-You; teani. These 
selections arc more or less a harmless pastime—custom demands 
it and the piayers, ¦ together with-the followers, must be ^atis- 
fi.ed,. The galaxy of gridiron cornets, .staxs,- and .constellations,, 
which blazed across the sports sky this‘ season lias made that 
task much more difficult, if possible.
Columbus, Ohio.—At the begin­
ning o.f the present football .season 
alumni of Ohio State University and lo.wa Uniy.cr.sity were «crying for the resignations of their re­spective' fdoibail coaches, Jack Wilcc and Mayes McLain, because their teams seemed to have formed a habit of lighting it out for the lower berths in the Big Ten Con­ference football championship con­tests.'
A few days ago the two met here; their teams to fight it: put for the probable Conference champion­ship. Wilcc, - however, already has resigned.
Delaware, O.—Whether Ohio Wes­leyan University ever will aspire to membership in the Western Football Confcrcr.ee is not known, but the football team which represents that
school 'this year is a bit 'puffed up 
foljowing reports tlr«t Coach -Field­
ing H. Yost, of »ichigan,. has ralctj .the Wesleyan aggregation at the top •of the list of those faccd bv ilii University of Michigan cleveii this .year. Such a rating just naturally -leaves .the Michigan coach in the position of saying that Ohio Wes­leyan is better than Ohio State, Illinois,. Indiana, Wisconsin and the (Navy. Of'course, Yost is a former ¦Wesleyan coach, and that may sub-’ jj£ct him to some degree of prejudice in Wcslcyan's favor, but a number of Ohio Conference schools arc ready to verify the opinion. Wes­leyan has won every game this year, with the exception of one, and has on its belt the scalps of both Michi­gan and Syracuse. It remained for Wittenberg to defeat the Methodists 7 to 6 last Saturday.
FRANK BROTHERSLet’s Go ToTECH
Barber Shop
ztxnho 
Ctbln Co
RfiliAvenue Boot Shop
Infsnnu racCo mufpyCCo ^fTnnfe/ Jns HtTg
ON THE ALL-EASTERN eleven Carnegie has two repre­
sentatives. HARPSTER, .at quarter and DRESHAR, at guard. 
Our respect increased for those pickers when we saw Dreshar 
placed. He has not received any too much publicity; being on 
the line prevents him from appealing to the spectators with 
spectacular .work and his performances were taken more or less 
as a matter of course and not commented upon.
THE NEW YORK'SUN puts Harpster on their All-Amer­
ican squad. Other men on their first eleven, familiar to local 
followers, are Donchess, of Pitt, on the end and Strong, N. Y. 
U., at halfback. We see no reason why Harpster should not be 
on the final All-American squad chosen by the leading coaches 
of the country.
Pctw, Fifth, Slanwix mid Duqucsnc lVay
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS 
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETSPittsburgh Shop 
Jenkins Arcade
When a Feller Needs a FriendBy BRIGGS
MERCV SAKS-S ' WHY EUSTAce !MAR s To BE .UTTeRit-J ' UP The 
PLACE WITH THEM 
f|-uge ApVWAH <
C IEUHR P
W) OH SCORGE ! WHAT 
¦%i A shame! AMD
EU^TACE WAD
TuJ Ou6T ^PEJT Tn/Jo 
Hours sorting 
-ffCTTfnp/ ALL out |-
GEO.RGIA TECH is the fortunate school which will do 
battle -with the University of California on New Year’s day, at 
the Tournament of Roses. It should be an interesting contest 
to listen, to, although judging from past experience, McNamec 
will probably wax eloquent on sunsets, mountains and the fair 
sex, and merely mention ¦ such ti'illes as touchdowns. Some­
times we think his line must be' so. much soft soap- in the hope 
of being invited back the following year.
WE WISH GEORGIA. TECH TI-IE'BEST OF LUCK, 
THEY ARE REPRESENTING THE -EAST AND GETTING 
THE GLORY WE HAD HOPED TO RECEIVE.
Road and Railroad Building
Aw,Gee. Pop
!YFLHDE!VR Vi>0 
¿MOKE 9 OLD 
.EXDN , oYT1T
ISN'T A CoUG H 
(W Ax CARLOAD
Approximate method of loading /or sida hill cut and fill
IN A; RADIQ -TALK,' last ¦' Saturday night,. Coach Bob 
Duff)'- of Dickinson. College, said he considered the University 
of Pittsburgh the strongest football college team in the coun­
try?????-.
Speaking off hand we bet 4^e is ^not a W. and J. or Carnegie 
alumnus.
v HARRY (DOÇ) SMITH,' genial instructor in physical edu­
cation at West - High of Akron was at the Notre D.a'me set-up. 
’‘Doc,”\looking whimsically-.into the past^ remembers a. skinny 
kid who insisted on pla)dng\foqtball, -a lad who developed into 
one of the greatest'moleskin artists in thè history of Rubber- 
town football. None else but “Howdy” Harpster.
“Doc” was on hand to see his former protege send the 
Green down to defeat in that memorable clash at Cartier field. 
He saw the heady field general direct the plays that broke the 
’‘Cartier field JinxV’; saw “Howdy” plaster the only defeat on thé 
home field since 1905. Is it strange that Smith wore a grin 
from ear to ear during the entire game?
*******
“ATWATER KENT RADIOS are the- finest.”—Harpster.* * * * * * *
N. Y. U. students crashed from the .heights of elation to 
the depths of despair when the underrated Oregon Aggies 
slammed them for a defeat. All of which goes to show every
team suffers a mental relaxation after all their biggest games
which invariably spells downfall for the majority, unless they 
are very, very, very lucky.. * * * *. * * *
Next week, in the exchange of staffs, J. L. Soloman, Pitt 
Weekly Athletic Editor, will write the Tartan athletics.
Ye Scribe will attempt to cover with some/degree of intel­
ligence the athletic activities of the University. It sure would 
be a prime opportunity -to throw some dirty digs at some of 
my Pitt critics. Kind of an attack from within. It would be.
R
OAD-MAKING calls for about every kind of blasting, 
opening ditches, loosening hard ground in grading, 
blasting for surfacing and ballasting material, opening 
vertical drains, and blasting rock in grading. There are 
“through cuts” and “side hill cuts,” high sides, ridges and 
“thank you mamas,” outfall or discharge ditches, and scores 
of names and strange technicalities that never saw the light 
of day in the average engineering text-book.
All these practical points of road-making are explained, 
fully diagramed and illustrated in the BLASTERS’ HAND­
BOOK. Not a text-book in the ordinary sense, but rather 
a digest of the experience of du Pont field service men in 
practically every industry using explosives. Admirably 
supplements your studies of engineering theories. Supplies 
the kinks and “how-to-do's” that you usually have to spend 
several years in the field to leam. Handy pocket-size for 
quick reference; and arranged for easy study.
Used in the classrooms and dormitories of many leading 
technical institutions.
yIl This cout>on will bring YOUR copy
\\\ without incurring any expense or obligation
i -— (i/c-m)
REO. U. 0. PAT. OFF.. CT12
E. I. du Pont dc Ncmourn & Co., Inc.,
Explosives Department, Wilmington, Deluwaro 
Without cost or obligation on my part, please send me a copy of the ‘‘Blastcra’ Handbook.”The Smoother and Better Cigarette 
not a cough in a carload
Thursday the football men dine with the City Fathers in 
the Chamber of Commerce Building. The championship cup 
will be officially presented at that time. May it rest for many 
years in the trophy room.
*******
We envy the reporters; they just walk away and take a 
¡vacation. The editors can’t do that,
Name.
Dormitory.
Room No.
.State.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1928.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
Published onoe «vory w«k darin» tho 
eolie»« year by undergraduate« of Carnetclo 
Inn til ule of Technology. Entered in the 
pltUburffb Pont Office n» a«eond-clMB matter.
THE
Editor-in-Chicf__‘Plaid Editor.___Busincsr Manager.
Managing Editor.N^ws Editor____Women's Editor- Athletic Editor.«.. Alumni Editor—
8TAFP
.Stewart C. Ralston Edw. E. McDonald__James H. Seibert
___William McNeill-------Ruth Bramson_____Dorothy RoyThomas W. Lippcrt —Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Helen Reed Eugene Jarcma Helen Booth Hyman J. Levinson Helen Whitchill Kathryn O'Donnell 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Nathan Miller Joe B. ¦’attersonSara E. Wonders Alex M. FisherElizabeth Schlesinger 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland Jacob Carpc Iici.ry L, Bunker, Jr.Catherine ^oyd
PLAID NEWS STAFF
News Editor----------A. M. KirchnerA.rt__________________C. CarnivalcEngineering----------E. T. Molyncaux
industries-------------------J. S. Geyser
T. J. Boyle M. Eckels N. Kline G. M. Wilson L. I. Shusset W. L. Myers G. H. Suitt
REPORTERS .
D. K. Tomer I. M. BaughE. J. DattismanG. H. Merrin V. I. Morgan 
D. H. Barr
H. R. Walli. M. Highberger I. Levin 
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Helen Zeleznjak Pearl Goldberg
Ludmilla Allen Mary Gordan
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Mgr-----Robert H. WehrleAssistant:----------;___David H. GenterWillis M. Crosby John Wright 
.Michael Malinich 
Carl Blass__S. A. ButtonariE. G. Miller D. W. Seville
Circulation Mgrs._
Circulation Assts. A Frank 'V. P. JonesH. M. Rosenberg
Offico—Room 12, Industries Buildin«. Of- 
Bce HourB—Monday to Thursdnya, 12:30, 
1:20, Paper mndo up Friday. 12:30-6:00.
To insuro publication on the uucceedinR 
Tuesday, nows Items mui'l be in the student 
post office or Tartan Office before 4:30 
Thursday.
After offico hours, call—
tfrHt'rr __Oakmont 567-W
_______________________..Mayflower 8821
Plaid Editor____________________Atlantic 1300
...Schenlcy 9211Business Manager--------
Advertising Manager...
COLLEGE JOURNALISM
Journalistic activity has long been one of the basic extra-curricu- lar functions of American schools. Interest in preparatory school and college publications has perhaps been second only to interest in athletics, and the present trend is decidedly toward an even _ greater activity in this field. It is quite possible that the reason for this lies in the fact that undergraduate journalism provides an excellent opportunity for studying what may 
later become a regular means of livelihood. No other student ac­tivity graduates so many of its followers into a similar life work. It may be due largely to this train­ing in school that so many stu­dents follow journalism later in life. When such is the case, there is little doubt but that such work in collcgc is entirely justified and that any journalistic experience that can be obtained prior to grad­uation is an asset.The exchange of stalls by The Carnegie Tartan and The Pitt Weekly for their next issues is anexample of what may be done inthe field of collcgc journalism in addition to the weekly routine of editing and publishing one’s ownpaper. As far as is known, this is the first time that two news­papers have completely exchanged their news staffs, and all credit for the idea is due the editor-in- chief of The Weekly. Aside from being a means of expressing friend­ly rivalry between the journalists of Carnegie Tech and The Uni­versity, it will offer an exceptional opportunity for the members of the two groups to demonstrate their ability and resourcefulness in overcoming the difficulties of a new and strange situation. Letters from readers of either publica­tion commenting on the outcome will be welcomed by the respective staffs.The next issue of. The Tartan, appearing on Tuesday, December 11, and edited by the staff of The Pitt Weekly, will be the last issue of Carnegie’s newspaper until after the holiday recess, when The Tar­tan will reappear as usual on Janu­ary 10.
“The Pleasure Garden,” 
An Incoherent Play
, "The Pleasure Garden,” Beatrice I Mayor's four-act play which' the I Drama Department is now pro­ducing in the Little Theater, is a ’'Clsentimental tragedy sandwiched with comedy. As a play, it is a fpfair example of the kind of thing 1 the incoherent school produces, and bad. Around the common­place and platitudinous idea that every intelligent person has taken for granted almost ever since he can remember, that life is pretty cruel, after all, and that happi­ness, most of the time, is ap­parently a phantom illusion, Miss Mayor, with no particular success, has tried to construct a plot. A Man Smoking, played by Mr. Kerr, suggests to a distinctly moronic j student, played by Mr. Woolley, that instead of studying crabs out I of a book, he wander about a 1 public garden observing people.The Student goes walking about, ^ fatuously poking his nose into other people’s business, to come 5’ back at sunset—compliments to the electrician—to the Man Smoking, 1 completely disillusioned by his ob­servation of contemporary life. And the Student, being romantic as well as stupid, fails at the end even to get the very obvious and trite moral the Man Smoking tries
THE NEXT DANCE
“Small thieves lie in towers fas­
tened to wooden blocks; big ones 
strut about in gold and silver.”— 
Cato, The Censor (Latin, B.C. 234- 149.)“Just as Parliament and the Courts are captured by the rich, so is the Church. The average parson does not teach honesty and equality in the village school; he teaches deference to the merely rich, and calls that loyalty and religion. He is the ally of the squire, who, as magistrate, administers the laws made in the in­terests of the rich by the parlia­ment of rich men, and calls that jus­tice. The villagers, having no ex­perience of any other sort of reli­gion or law, soon lose all respect for both, and become merely cynical. They may touch their hats and curt­sey respectfully; but they whisper to one another that the squire, no mat­ter how kind his wife may be at Christmas by way of ransom, is a despoiler and oppressor of the poor, and the parson a hypocrite. In revolutions, it is the respectful peas­ants who burn the country houses and parsonages,' and rush to the Cathedrals to deface the statues, shatter the stained windows and wreck the organ.“By the way, you may know par­sons who arc not like that. Ac least I d.o. There are always men and women who will stand out against injustice no matter how prosperous and well spoken of it may be. But the result is that they are ill suoken of themselves in the most influential quarters. Our society must be judged, not by its few rebels, but by its mil­lions of obedient subjects.“The same corruption reaches the children in all our schools. School­masters who teach their pupils such vital elementary truths about their dut}' to their country as that they should despise and pursue as crim­inals all able bodied adults who do not by personal service pull their weight in the social boat, are dis­missed from their employment, and sometimes prosecuted for sedition. And from this elementary morality up to the most abtruse and philoso­phic teaching in the universities, the same corruption extends. Science becomes a propaganda of quack cures, manufactured by companies in which the rich hold shares for the diseases of the rich who need only useful occupation, to keep them both in health. Political economy becomes an impudent demonstration that the wages of the poor cannot be raised; that without the idle rich we should perish for lack of capital and em­ployment ; and that if the poor would take care to have fewer chil­dren everything would be for the 
best in the worst of all possible 
worlds.“Thus the poor are kept poor by
so hard to suggest: that the only way to secure happiness is to ac­cept the world as it is, and snatch whatever happiness one can get out of whatever turns up.The stage setting for the park seemed to be always hesitating between realism.and expressionism: the flowers, for. example, never seemed to be sur.e whether they were to go on growing, or whether, as simple green circles 
and red squares, they were only to go on suggesting. A com­pletely exprcssionistic setting would almost certainly have been a bet­ter mounting for the play. If the trees had been a little more ob­viously artificial, and a brighter, jauntier, intenser green, they might have heightened more than one emotion mouthed by an actor.Miss Tedrow does such an extra­ordinarily fine piece of acting as Topsy, a high, class prostitute, that comment is useless. Her long conversation with a Clergyman's Wife, played bjr Miss Abbaticchio, although there is too much talk in it about Emile, is probably the most interesting scene in the play. Miss Wakefield plays marvelously her part of an elderly Gentle­woman. Certainly this characteri­zation, so expertly and artistically done, concentrating into posture after so few words the essence of a tragically crushing existence will long be remembered in the De­partment. Mr. Fisher, as an Actor, plays with splendid ease and as­surance, and his diction is more pleasing than it has been in any other play. One would like to see Mr. Sullivan in this part.The other actors play their parts, always satisfactory, but with vary­
ing ease and skill. More than once one is delighted by intelli­gent posture, gesture, intonation, but time and' time again one feels that there is lacking a complete feeling for the realization of the part, and the perfect poise which that feeling, plus a satisfactorytechnique, would bring. For our amusement Mr. Johns and Miss Seybold wander about the Garden as Husband and Wife, wrangling with each other. Miss Kempton and Mr. McKee demonstrate for us idealistic, boyish, girlish love. Mr. Harr, as a temperamentalPoet, is followed in a motherlyclucking way by Miss Hill as his Wife. Miss Tenney plays with humors a rich Grande Dame, and flirts in a stiff middle aged way with Mr. Boesen, a Retired Major. In and out and around the Gar­den these people wander. MissBodycombe, as a Maid, listens for the whistle. At the tea house, Miss McCann, a Girl with a Smile, insists upon spreading sunshine and optimism. Two Neighbors, Miss Gully and Miss Jacobs, come down a path, exchanging the gossip of their quarter. Miss Bauersmithtakes off the completely indifferent Waitress. Miss Cazen and Miss Bell laugh through their briefparts of two giggly factory girls.The audience at times, watch­ing this imaginary spectacle of an afternoon, is bored. At othertimes it laughs. Sometimes it wants to pull out a handkerchief. At the end, it leaves the Little Theater, part of it with a slightly bad taste in its mouth, dqubting and wondering if life-really is like that.^ the other part aware of ennui, and of having seen a medi­ocre play, redeemed somewhat by competent, and, in some cases, by exceptionally fine acting. A. K. N.
their ignorance; and those whose 
parents are too well off to make it 
possible to keep them ignorant, and 
who receive what is called a com­plete education, are taught so many flat lies that their false knowledge 
is more dangerous than the un­tutored natural wit of savages.”“As people get their opinions so largely from the newspapers they read, the corruption of the schools would not matter so much if the press were free. But the press is not free. As it costs at least a quar­ter of a million of money to estab­lish a daily newspaper in London, the newspapers are owned by rich men. And they depend cn tiie ad­vertisements of other rich men. Edi­tors and journalists wno express opinions in print that arc cpposcd to the interests of the rich are dismiss­ed and replaced by subservient ones. The newspapers, therefore, must continue the work begun by the schools and colleges, so that only the strongest and most independent and original minds can escape from the mass of false doctrine that is im­pressed on them by ' the combinedand incessant suggestion and persua­sion of Parliament, the law courts, the Church, the schools and thepress. We are all brought up wrong­headed to keep us willing slaves in­stead of rebellious ones.“You may ask why not only therich but the poor put up with allthis, and even passionately defend it as an entirely beneficial public mor­ality. I can only say that the de­fense is not unanimous; it is always being attacked at one point or an­other by public-spirited reformers and by persons whose wrongs are unbearable. But taking it in the 
lump 1 should say that the evil of the corruption and falsification of law, religion, education and public opinion is so enormous that the minds of ordinary people are unable to grasp it, whereas they easily and eagerly grasp the petty benefits with which it is associated.“Another thing that makes us cling to this lottery with huge money prizes is the dream that we may be­come rich by some chance. We read of uncles in Australia dying and leaving a half a million to a laborer or a charwoman who never knew of his existence. We hear of some­body no better off than ourselves winning the Calcutta Sweep. Such dreams would be destroyed by an equal distribution of income. And people cling all the more to dreams when they are too poor even to back horses! They forget the million losses in their longing for the one gain that the million unlucky ones have to pay for.
_ “But, we must get on to the posi­tive reasons for the Socialist plan of an equal division. First, equal divi­sion is not only .. possible plan, but one which has been tested b^ long experience. The great bulk of the daily work of the civilized world is done, and always has been done, and always will be done, by bodies of persons receiving equal pay whether they are tall or short, fair or dark, quick or slow, young or getting on in years, teetotallers or beer drink­ers, Protestants or Catholics, married or single, short tempered or sweet tempered, pious or wordly; in short, 
without the slightest regard to the differences that make one person un­like another. In every trade there is a standard wage, in every public service there is a standard pay; and in every profession the fees arc fixed with a view to enable the man who follows the profession to live accord­ing to a certain standard of respec­tability which is the same for the whole profession. The pay of the 
policeman and soldier and postman, the wages of the laborer and car­penter and mason, the salary of the judge and the member of Parlia­ment may differ, some of them get­ting less than a hundred a year and others five thousand; but all the sol­diers'get the same, all the judges get the same, all the members of Parlia­ment get the same; and, if you ask a doctor why his fee is half a crown or five shillings, or a guinea or three guineas, or whatever it may be, in­stead of fiye shillings or ten shillings, or two guineas or six guineas or a thousand guineas, he can give you no better reason than that he is ask­ing what all the other doctors ask, and that they ask it because they find they cannot keep up their posi­tion on less.
“THEREFORE, WHEN SOME INCONSIDERATE PERSON RE­PEATS LIICE A PARROT THAT IF YOU GAVE EVERYBODY THE SAME MONEY BEFORE A YEAR WAS OUT YOU WOULD HAVE RICH AND POOR AGAIN JUST AS BEFORE, ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS TO TELL HIM TO LOOK AROUND HIM AND SEE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WHO GET THE SAME MONEY AND REMAIN IN THE SAME 
POSITION ALL THEIR LIVES WITHOUT ANY SUCH CHANGE TAKING PLACE. THE CASES IN WHICH POOR MEN BECOME RICH ARE MOST EXCEPTION­AL! and though the cases in which rich men become poor are com­moner, they also are accidents and not ordinary everyday circumstances. The rule is that workers of the same rank and calling are paid alike, and that they neither sink "below their condition nor rise above it. No matter how unlike they are to one another, you can pay one of them two and sixpence and the other half a crown with the assurance that as they are out so they will stay, though here and there a great rogue or a great genius may surprise you by becoming much richer or much poorer than the rest. You may with the utmost confidcncc take it as set­tled by practical experience that if we could succeed in distributing in­come equally to all the inhabitants of the country, there would be no more tendency on their part to di­vide into rich and poor than there is at present for postmen to divide in­to beggars and millionaires. The only novelty proposed is that the postmen . should get as much as the postmasters, and the postmasters no less than anybody else. If we find as we do that it answers to give all judges the same income, and all nan captains the same income, why should we go on giving judges five 
times as much as navy captains?
[ Play Review j
BLOWN IN THE WIND---
Now N. Y. U. and her goal post raiders know just how the Scotch lads and lassies of Carnegie felt along about 5 o’clock one fair Saturday afternoon not so long ago. On this Saturday, campus fraternities opened Carnegie’s rushing season, and the Strong-arm Violets ended Carnegie’s crushing season. As is very well .known, our Tartans were smartly 
rapped by a 27-13 score.
And just last Thursday, the same Violets, minus Mr. T. N. T. Lass- man, still celebrating their glorious Smoky-town victory, were snowed under by some friends of ours from way out west, the Oregon Aggies, 26-13, in their- own backyard, the Yankee Stadium.
Pardon us, please, if we snicker audibly, and though we know it isn’t polite, we are rather inclined to laugh out loud. For now, Captain Harpster and his mates finish the season with a better record than these Violets, who have also lost to Georgetown, who lost to Carnegie, whose sole defeat was at the hands of the man who only ran to the right, a certain Mr. Strong. Anyway, Carnegie once more sits upon the eastern pinnacle, with only Army and perhaps, Boston College, to dispute any titular claims of the Tartans. For with Yale, Princeton, Harvard, Columbia, and A1 Smith all taking the count in succession, it certainly looks like a Western Pennsylvania year.
So, while we aren’t trying to mb anything in, we’re laughing up our sleeve at those “smart city slickers” from New York \vho thought their Violets were superhuman.*****
“Blindfolded, You Konw The Difference!” Who has not seen these words blazing from the top of most tall buildings in most any big city. We all know that once again Old Gold is telling us that their cigarette is outstanding even when one is blindfolded. We have all read how Mrs. Morgan Belmont, Graham McNamce, “Babe” Ruth; Lou Gehrig, and Charlie (Himself) Chaplin picked Old Gold, while blindfolded, from the four leading brands of cigarettes. Finally, Old Matv/Curiosity be­came our master and we decided to conduct a blindfold test on our own hook. We did—and how! Luckies, Chesterfields, Camels, and Old Golds were used on four victims and the results were decidedly amus­ing. Lend an ear and we’ll tell you all about it.
One poor misguided individual was given four Camels to smoke. The first one he thought very mild, the second was very strong, the third was more like the first, but not quite as palatable, and the fourth did all the things it shouldn't do, for the subject coughed and said his throat was irritated.
Another lad was an inveterate smoker of Luckies, and swore that he'd recognize them in any test given. But—when a Camel was handed to him, he loudly proclaimed that he was smoking a Lucky, and when he was given Luckies, he strenuously objected, saying he always did hate Chesterfields.
The other two subjects both claimed that Luckies hurt their throats. Many more such statements and the veracity of our All-Amer- ican football players, leading coaches and well-known ball players will be questioned by all.
The test did prove one thing, however. Every cigarette smoker picks his favorite brand through habit, and unless he knows what he knows what he is smoking, there is really very little difference. But we haven't seen the fellow yet who couldn’t pick out an Arco Special, even in a slaughter house.* * ' * * *
Vacation snapshots: Howard Harpster’s rather happy smile whenthe N. Y. U.-Oregon score was posted at the stadium Thanksgiving. And McKees Rocks Toby’s one hundred yard dash the same day. Car­negie lads dressed as pigs, roosters, dogs, "Little Queens,” and what have you in the Press Santa Claus parade Friday. Jack Donahue and Marilyn Miller singing “Say So” at Rosalie.” And the ever-present burlesque calliope meandering down Liberty avenue.
Lest any one think accidental 
the delicious humor, the light, bril­
liant style, the conception of im­
mortal heroes as moral—and some­what foolish—men which distin­guished his first novel, John Er- skine followed it up with several novels in the same manner. Themost recent of these is Penelope’s Man.In this novel Mr. Erskinê liftsOdysseus from the pedestal onwhich Homer had placed him.Penelope’s man struts from one
That is what the navy captain would like to know; and if you tell him that if he were given as much as the judge he would be just as poor as before at the end of a. year he will use language unfit for the ears of anyone but a pirate. So be care­ful how you say such things.”“Equal distribution is then quite possible and practicaole, not only momentarily but permanentl}'. It is also simple and intelligible. It gets rid of all squabbling as to how much each person would have. It is al­ready in operation and familiar over great masses of human beings. Apd it has the tremendous advantage of sec iring promotion by merit for the more capable.”“Between persons of equal in­come there is no social distinction except the distinction of merit. Money is nothing; character, con­duct and capacity are everything. Instead of all the workers being leveled down to low wage stand­ards and all the rich leveled up to fashionable income standards, every one under a system of equal in­comes would find her and his own natural level. There would be great people and ordinary people and lit­tle people; but the great would al­ways be those who had done great •things, and never idiots whose mothers had spoiled them and whose fathers had left them a hun­dred thousand a year; and the lit­tle would be persons of small minds and mean characters, and not poor persons who had never had a chance. That is why idiots are always in favor of inequality of income (their only chance of eminence), and the really great in favor of equality.—Bernard Shaw"s 
Intelligent Woman’s Guide to So­cialism and Capitalist
amorous episode to another, 
variably appearing a bit foolish. 
Indeed, the wonder of him is that 
though he is foolhardy rather than 
brave, old rather than young, a talker rather than a doer, selfish usually, egotistical always, never­theless, he intrigues the women. From innocent Nausicaa to wily Circe, the lovely maidens take the travel-worn Ithacan king in, feed him—and give him what he wants. Well, he is handsome, and good looks probably counted for as much then as now.Certainly Odysseus needs his fine appearance, for he lacks many of the qualities demanded of a hero. In fact, he bears a strong resem­blance to—let us say, a man from Main Street at a convention. His assumed modesty, for instance, has a decidedly familiar ring.“I know you’re a great man, but I can’t guess which one,” Calypso says with none-too-subtle flattery.Then Odysseus: “I am . Odys­seus,” he said as modestly as possi­ble.“You don't mean you’re the king of Ithaca? Not the famous orator.'' Not the genius who brought the war to a close?”He thought best simply to nod. And then—can you not see the smirk? Says Mr. Odysseus:"I marvel that you have heard of me, madam.”Not less delightfully satirized in Penelope’s Man are a number of other masculine failings. Odys­
seus’ self-centered disregard for the feelings of others, his irritability when he is hungry, his "slick” plausibility in his excuses, his will­ingness to accept from women without admitting even to himself his debt to'them—these characteris­tics maike Erskine’s Odysseus an honest-to-goodness man.But with all his defets, Odysseus, like other men, has his heroic mo­ments. His self-possession when he is discovered as a spy in Troy, and again when he learns that he has been chosen king of the Lotus Eaters who kill their kings annu­ally, borders on true greatness. And Odysseus is really clever,, both at devising stories and at accepting the valuable bits of others’ stories.If Mr. Erskine has made Odys seus an ordinary man, he has done as much—or as little—for the fem­inine characters of the story. Sor­ceress, goddess, princess, all have very human, very common imper­fections. However, most of the women combine brains with heau-
“Pleasure Garden;” the latest pro­
duction of the Drama Department, 
gave me a very pleasant surprise the 
other evening. I approached the 
portals of the Little Theater with 
fear and trembling, reassuring my­
self that, since I had made up- my 
mind to review ^very production, I 
must take the bad with the good, 
and furthermore, this play if as bad 
as I had been told would be a real 
test of my ability to “take it,” to-re­
vert to the parlance of fistianna.
Two of the players and one who 
had a hand in the production of the 
piece had told me that seeing it would be a waste of time, so picture my feelings, dear readers (if any), to find myself highly entertained, in fact, very well pleased with the play. I’m sure that nothing is wrong with my taste or judgment so I must per­force chalk up an error for each of my informants.
The play has no definite plot— rather, it is a bundle of little plots, in the lives of a number ot people, neatly tied together by the wander­ings of a young student of biology, who has momentarily turned from the study of human beings and their 
peculiar antics. The setting is in a public park, comparable to our own necking grounds across the street.As the curtain rose, a park bench scene was revealed, the bench con­taining a., middle-aged man smoking a pipe, an old hag, and a young 
student, deeply engrossed in a book. On a chair at one side was a wom- !an sewing, at the other side - was another chair, occupied by a man snoring. The smoking man seems at peace with the world, occasionally speaking to some of his companions with an air of kindly understanding.The student, who has been so deeply engrossed in his book, as to be obvious to his surroundings, finds himself growing stiff and cramped from his long sitting .and, stretching, he enters into conversation with the smoker. He tells his tranquil neighbor of the interesting idiosyn­crasies of crabs, which he has been studying and his listener, after hear­ing 'the tale suggests that they ex­change studies—he to read the book on crabs, and the student to study human nature, as found in the Pleas­
ure Garden.The remainder of the play is made up of incidents seen by the student in his wanderings—the meeting of a scarlet woman and a minister’s wife, old schoolmates, and the envy of the latter for the former; the violent quarreling of a young couple on their/ wedding day; the numerous quarrels and reconciliations of an engaged boy and girl; the story of a ham actor, the man who had been snoring on the chair in the first act, who has his moments of greatness and his moments of weakness—such as getting drunk after swearing never to touch a drop again; the pitiful old hag, who is unconsciously snubbed by all with whom she comes in contact; and finally tiie return of the student, worried and wondering, to his friend the smoker.The moral of the play, for it has a moral, comes in the last scene when the student, seeking the secret of his friend’s tranquility, finds that the smoker knows that his life’s course has about reacned its end. In the course of their dialogue the author gives us her philosophy that, the majority of human beings spend their lives pursuing, chasing and wishing with their objective never clear in their own minds, and that the true secret of happiness is con­tentedness with one’s ‘ot, whatever it may be. This is the ancient Chinese viewpoint, and the action of the play, while exaggerated, is neverthe­less sufficiently true to life to lend considerable weight to the moral.The play was exceptionally well cast and directed. It contained three outstanding characterizations—that of Tim Fisher as the actor; Florence Wakefield as the old hag; and Irene Tedrow as Topsy, the ' scarlet wom­an. Fisher fitted his role as though born to it, while Miss Wakefield completely hid her natural beauty to give what was probably the best per­formance of her career as the hope­less, friendless, jobless old woman. To Irene Tedrow 1 doff my ancient smoke-colored fedora. I’ve always considered her as a rather brainy girl who was good at pretending to be an actress, but I now admit that she is a real died-in-thc-wool Thes­
pian.Garland Kerr, as the smoker, ‘ fac­ing the imminent setting sun of life, was very good, as were Jack Wolley as the student; Burt McKee as the male half of the engaged couple: and Arne Boeson as a retired major. Kittie Seybold and Tressie McCann also performed acceptably. In fact, the only false note. I detected was the rich’lady, played by Helen Ten­ney. This was a caricature,• and a poor one, though the fault is of direction rather than Mjss Tenney’s.The piece is by Beatrice Mayor. I can’t say that I ever heard of the lady before, but I understand that she can be classed as a contempor­ary British writer, fairly well known in her own land. She has selected an excellent site for her play and while I can’t say that the result is à masterpiece, I’d recommend it to anybody as an entertaining evening. If the moral were only hammered home with more force, ’twould make an excellent vehicle for Chan- 
ning Pollock.—R. O’R.
November 25, 1928. 
Dear Mr. Editor:
The return of the “Old Carnegie 
Spirit” was heralded on the cam­
pus last week, '’'here was a great 
rejoicing. And why not? The old 
Back - up-the-team-through - every­
thing spirit was going strong. And 
th^n what happened? Is this old 
and far-famed Plaid Spirit a mere 
puff of air, an elusive thing that 
shies and breaks and vanishes when 
up against a gruelling test? What 
happened in that last quarter Satur­
day when the team kept going and 
the crowd went home? The team 
gained — we cheered. They lost 
ground and we sat back and won­
dered why. They fought, they ran, 
they struggled, hurt and exhausted, 
for .us, for Carhegie, while we sat, 
then got up, and went home.
Where was that “spirit-that- 
sticks” * during that last quarter? 
With eleven men down there on 
the field giving their last ounce of 
strength—fighting on after that was 
gone—Carnegie said nothing, yelled 
nothing. People got up and left, 
cheer-Ieaders with their coats on 
ready to leave, dragged megaphones 
around, a few loyal souls in the 
s nd tier still "talked it up,” 
hoarsely, while the team fought on 
to the last gasp—with one-third of 
the school half-heartedly behind them.And then the gun—and the team went off .the field—unacclaimed- by any but a few from the b.ench— after that glorious lighting defeat! Where was that spirit? Why didn't it have Harpy on its shoulders when the game ended? Hurt, but game—fighting to the last drop— then left to walk of.’ the field un­noticed. Great, wasn’t it? What’s the matter, Tech? Ah, yes. Too tired and hoarse to cheer after a gruelling three-quarters of it. But tne team didn’t figure that way.Come on, Carnegie, can't we show them somehow even now, that we’re proud of them for the way they’ve fought for us? Let’s “talk it up” and make the world forget that the spirit weakened in that test—let’s hold it up and carry it on—Cajnegie!* * * *
The accompanying bit of reading matter may not be worth printing, but it at least expresses, however incoherently, the feelings of a num­ber of Carnegie students upon leav­ing Forbes Field last Saturday, and they ask that it be given con­sideration.—The author of the above letter.* * * *
It Ought to Be Explained, or Else There Should Be a Law Against Such ThingsNot that it really matters, but it jars with our inherent sense of order. Besides it is not humane.Weare speaking of the gentleman 
who writes "from th fence.” It was all very well when the weather was warmer. But now with frost in the air, snow on thr* ground, and ice on the fence, it is really unfair to the gentleman to have him sit 
on the ice-covered oak, writing book reviews, reporting lectures at the Carnegie Music Hall, worrying about Campus Week, analyzing the psychosis of co-eds, and what not. The mental strain, the overwork, the worry, the ice-covered seat are certain to bring pneumonia and thi undertaker in their wake. The ve.v thought makes us shudder. We suggest that the gentleman 
give up his hazardous calling._ The benefit will be twofold—to himself and to the public.Ana that reminds us of the rap­turous verse which was witnessed by us in the last issue of the Tar­tan. There ought to be a law against that, too. Not that we ob­ject to poetry as such, or to the authors for not having been able to resist the call of the muse—we are quite aware that the new gen­eration of engineers is going in for culture-—, but we resent the at­tempt of one of the poets to fool us into believing that Scotchmen talk pidgin English., We under­stood that Chinese talk pidgin English, while Scotchmen speak Scotch dialect.Such things ought to be ex­plained, or else there should be a law against them.—J. R-n.* *, * * *
Must do some math for the next class—guess I’ll go to a club room! Need inspiration, stimulus—there’s a seat—no, it’s got ; busted arm, crrmbs on the table, too—ha, there’s one, rotten light but I guess it’ll do. Bare walls, wooden tables,
We’re still choked up with tears 
over the N. Y. U. game. We hon­
estly never had our heart set on 
anything as much as on that game 
and were never so terribly dis­
appointed. But if a team ever de­
served to win, it was that one from 
the great metropolis. We’ve seen 
teams coached by everyone from 
the illustrious Mr. Stagg to the 
equally famous Mr. Yost, but we’ve 
never seen football like that. And 
their cheering certainly put us to 
shame. In spite of that last de­feat, we’re tremendously proud of our , team and think they have every reason to be equally proud 
of themselves.
“The Pleasure Garden” is an ex­tremely interesting production. We had heard almost all about it be­fore we went, and were just the least bit afraid that we ivere go­
ing to be bored. We’ll never jump at conclusions again. The whole thing was perfectly charming. We think Mr. Kerr was very tine, in fact, much better than in any part we have seen him play before. The sets were not quite as good as some we have seen in the Little 1 heater, but nevertheless they cre­ated the desired effect. We are anxiously awaiting the opening of “Trojan Women;” it certainly gives promise of being a splendid thing.
Again we arc suffering from our annual case of melancholia that comes each year with the first snow storm. The landscapes may be very beautiful to some people, but they are never compensation to us for frozen feet and chafed hands. Cold weather is simply cold to us and not invigorating or re­freshing or any of the other love­ly adjectives that less hardy folk like to ascribe to it. Anyway, Pittsburgh snow gets very dirty and is really not at all lovely five or ten minutes after it is on the ground. And galoshes arc such an ungodly nuisance. ¦>. .
Isn’t there something that can \ be done about the ventilating sys- tem in Margaret Morrison? Is it as bad in all the other colleges? We hate to raise sucli awful ob­jections, but it seems that there ought to be some method of im­provement. We go from one class to the next not knowing whether 
we will be overcome by heat or frozen to death. Can’t they at least be consistent? This continu­ous putting on and taking off of coats is very annoying and cer­tainly most unhealthy. It isn’t the least bit pleasant to be so hot that it is an effort to keep awake, nor is it any more enjoyable to be so cold that one has to write with 
gloves on.
Things happening off campus have more or less escaped our . notice this week. About the pep­piest place we’ve been to in a long time was Child’s the night before the N. Y. U. game. There was ab­solutely nothing lacking to make the scene complete. Students, grads, cheer leaders and tickct scalpers were all represented, and they all made themselves very evi­dent. The violet Chiffon scarfs that the New York girls wear with their evening clothes arc very good looking. That’s real school spirit for you, when girls will wear their school colors whether or not they harmonize with the rest of their apparel.
ty, a combination thought rather 
rare nowadays.In fact, the incidents are so simi­lar to one another, and to a certain degree to the incidents in the Odyssey that the principle interest in the story must rest for everyone not in the narrative but in Mr. Er­skine’s interpretation of character. The reader wonders why the au­thor did not invest more than he did of adventure, for on the two or three occasions when he depends on his own imagination, Mr. Er­skine is even more charming than usual. The wholly original episode with Eurycleia, Odysseus’ old nurse, is undoubtedly the most dramatic in the book. And as for Mr. Er­skine’s descriptions of the customs and superstitions of the Lotus Eaters, they are the work of a 
genius'
harder chairs, cold air, noise--fel­low comes in, slams books_ noisily on the table and slouches in to a cr.aky chair—“say, Bill, where ya goin’ tonight, out with Mazic?” From across the room, “Naw, got to study.” Some one goes out. “Didja hear about N. Y. U. knock­in’ off the Oregon Aggies, I mean, Oregon Aggies lickin’ N. Y. U.?” There goes someone out. Why can’t these fellows keep still and stop this everlasting creaking. Some one coming in—who threw that orange peel under my chair—there goes another magazine on the floor —“Hey, were you born in a barn; shut the door!” There goes some one out again. Where’s my slip- stick—who the devil put that news­paper over it? Gosh! Blank walls, dirty paint, messy tables—gotta get these problems done for math next period—this seat’s hard, can't think, must get to work. Some one’s leaving—blank walls, littered tables, b“oken chairs, noise, cement floors, more noise, paper — crumbs — dis­traction and—holy mackerel, there’s the bell and no math problems done yet!—E. F.
BULLETIN BOARD
In order that this column may contain a complete list, students in charge of events are -asked to co-operate by . sending information to Box 407, Campus post office, by Friday noon, preceding the publica­
tion date.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4 11:30 A. M.—General Assembly: Carnegie Music Hall.6:30 P. M.—Dinner and Meeting: Students’ Club of the First Baptist 
Church.7:30 P. M.—Meeting: Student Council.WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 56:30 P. M.—Dinner: Y. W. C. A. Industrial Club. Recreation Hall.
M. M. C. C.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 6 All Day. Costume Bazar: M. M. C. C.6:00 P. M.—Meeting: Teknon Club. Shadyside Presbyterian Church.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7 Tartan Issue of The Pitt Weekly4:30 P. M.—Arts Ball Party: Exhibition Room. College of Fine
Arts.SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8 All Day. Christmas Sale: Beta Pi. Women’s Club Room 
—Gym.12:00 Noon—END OF THE FRATERNITY RUSHING SEASON.SUNDAY, DECEMBER 0 12:00 Noon—FRATERNITY PLEDGING BEGINS.6:00 P. M.—Meeting and Luncheon: Bandhu Club. Shadyside Presby­
terian Church.6:00 P. M.—Meeting: Oxford Club. Oakland Methodist Church.
6:00 P. M.—Meeting and Dinner: Whitehead Club.7:00 P. M.—Meeting and Discussion: Young People’s Club of theSixth Presbyterian Church.MONDAY, DECEMBER 106:30 P. M.—Banquet: Miners and Metallurgists. Carnegie Inn.
8:00 P. M.—Recital: Men’s Glee Club. Peabody High School,
