

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
K fi 1 «Ï 
»§ *Ü « tit
Mosf nice affairs whether 
it be a Ball or Dinner are 
held at The Rittenhouse, 
where every appointment 
is perfect,
m 8
»»i *)t
~0553D;>?^i?SOi5~0S?SO5;^5?S05;SOS5=O3;£S?O“SiO*»r fcrg Next Saturday, March 18th, Two Gandy Specials $
g Peanut Brittle, I c Pound. (Regular price 20c.) g
w Everton Toffy, 33c Pound. (Regular price 40c.) WJ0 —AT—
$ HALLER’S, 3618 Forbes Avenue. „
i0S5iSiiC>2ii0SiS<^S5i<^SiiCeX<>Si;0Sii0S5i0H5?055i
«
4*t4*
4«4-4»4-*4-
Guns, Cutlery, Athletic Goods, Canoes, Fish­
ing Tackle, a Complete Line of Dog Supplies 
and Medicines.”
W. S. BROWN, 523 Wood St., PITTSBURGH.
i *
* £Joseph Horne Co.
5 PENN AND FIFTH AVENUES. X
A Broad Gauge Store
having 80 selling departments, in which the 
live factor of small profits has built a trade 
reaching millions annually.
Some of the accommodations for the public: * 
Large Waiting Room, £
Writing Desks and Materials, ^
Retiring Room for Women, 2
A Public Restaurant, 2
Telephones at East Counter,ôTelephone Booths, K
Room to Check Luggage, 2
Messenger Service, 4.
Taxicab Calls, 4!
A Sub-Post Office, • 4.
A House Physician, 4!
Hospital on Premises. 4.
A COMPLETE LINE
Of
Drawing Instruments and Supplies 
Cameras and Photographic Supplies
£ Eyes Examined, Glasses Ground, Frames Fitted 
***4****
Wm.M. Stieren Optical Co.
623 LIBERTY AVENUE
^ Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or Jj
? gold, any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, 4*
Craig and Forbes. 4!
Special offer—only a few fobs left at 25 4!
cents. SCHENLEY LUNCH. f
§ KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ %
4* ^0 Are now iu their new building, S35 Wood S treet M41 %^ Stationery, Engraving, Artists’ Materials <6
O Draughtmrn’» and Engineers’ Supplies S"i# ^
*u 'ASc "STou.
that we print more books than any firmin the East End ? . '....................................
3Do ~Z~ou -w
that pur Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf­
lets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine
Printing ?........................................................
Mos f«gs§IT
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at­
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .cSo ioiTSCixEEa, 
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mr. H. J. McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at “Tech.”
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
g §I g
***?**+**4*4*?**fff**?4*4*4*4
‘WHERE ALL THE MEN CO" FOE THEIß TOQS
IROQUOIS
Op en Evenings
**4»4*4*4*4*4**?
4«4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. V
(Tl\e tartan
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1911.No. 23
RELAY TEAMS MAKE GOOD SHOWING
The first races of the season in which men repre­
senting Carnegie Tech competed were run under the 
auspices of the Young Men’s Christian Association 
of Pittsburg, at Duquesne, Gardens on Friday night, 
March 10.- The crowd was one of the largest and 
most -representative that has ever witnessed an 
athletic carnival in this city. Teams representing 
business houses and manufacturing firms were en­
tered, as well as competitors from athletic clubs, 
church organizations, colleges and schools, and 
every athlete had at least one friend or relative 
present to cheer him on to victory. A good portion 
of the spectators belonged to the fair sex, and bright 
ribbons, brilliant feathers, and gay fabrics, to say 
nothing of sparkling eyes and flushed cheeks, added 
beauty to the mass of humanity as viewed by the 
contestants.
The program was run off in an excellent manner, 
in spite of the number and variety of events. The 
event of chief interest to the majority of the spec­
tators was a two-mile relay race between teams from 
Pennsylxania and Cornell, which was won by the 
former college. A one mile relay race was won by 
Baker, of Oberlin, with Berma, of Cornell, a close 
second.
The two relay teams entered from C. T. S. both 
secured places, one first and one second, and Sperry, 
of Science, ’14, won the two-lap (thi*ee hundred and 
fifty yards) run. The victories of the relay teams 
are encouraging to the track team and its followers, 
for they give good ground for hoping better things 
to follow.
The first race run was the Western Pennsylvania 
College championship. Teams from Pitt, W. & J., 
Tech, and Indiana Normal were entered but the race 
was entirely between the two latter teams. Murphy 
led off for Carnegie and finished two yards behind 
Myers of Indiana. Crawford ran second and gave 
place to Sperry without letting the Normal gain any 
space. Sperry also kept the race at the same posi­
tion, both teams drawing away from Pitt and W. & J. 
Waite ran the last two laps against Castaneda, In­
diana’s crack athlete, and made the Cuban hustle to 
win by a narrow margin in a whirlwind finish. The 
time for the race was 2:55 for eight laps or 1,400 
yards.
The second college relay race was between In­
diana and Tech, and was won by the Tartan team, 
Colwell, Beekin, Fisk and McCrory ran in the order 
named. The first three relays kept the race close
*********t*******************************************************************
I* DOWHAT? Subscribe to the Tartan. ** *•J®
* WHEN? Now. J
HOW MUCH? Fifty Cents. Feb. 15th—June 7th. *
*5* 4»****t************************************************************************

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
and in doubt, but McCrory finished strong and left 
his man behind at the tape. The time was three 
minutes 6 1-5 seconds for eight laps.
In the two-lap run for novices, Sperry won against 
a large field of entries in 46 2-5 seconds. Van Als- 
den, of Indiana Normal, finished second and made 
the race an interesting one by the close finish.
Other men entered in various other events made 
good showings, but missed getting places. The re­
sult and the appearance of the track team insure at 
least a few laurels for Carnegie Tech in the later 
events of the season.
THE COST OF ORGANIZED ATHLETICS
Dean L. B. R. Briggs of Harvard, in his annual re­
port as Chairman of the Athletic Committee, says 
that “the cost of organized athletics is almost scand­
alous.” He also makes other pertinent criticisms. A 
part of his report is here given:
“The cost of organized athletics is almost scanda­
lous. In spite of large receipts from baseball, and 
enormous receipts from football, the Association, af­
ter moderate payment toward the permanent improve­
ment of Soldiers Field, can barely meet its bills. 
The almost complete abolition of subscriptions such 
as once victimized freshmen is a healthy curtail­
ment of our income; the increased outlay for hos­
pitality to visiting teams is a healthy addition to our 
expenses; the cost of expert medical aid is a duty 
cheerfully assumed: but some expenses bear about 
the same relation to the health and success of our 
teams that a silver-mounted bridle bears to good 
horsemanship.
“Captains, manager, and coaches incline to throw 
side equipment that is highly serviceable and almost 
new, and to buy at great expense something wholly 
new and a shade better; they tend to encourage an 
exaggerated fastidiousness in hotel accommodations, 
in food, and in clothing; they too often require for 
themselves and their men such luxuries of the table 
and of transportation as none but the rich can afford. 
The days when the player bought their own uniforms 
and equipment, and paid their own travelling expens­
es and doctors’ bills are gone past returning; shoes 
and sweaters for players, dinners for coaches and 
committees, taxicabs for busy men who steal time to 
help us without renumeration—these things have be­
come necessary: but shoes and sweaters to wear 
once or not at all, shoes and sweaters as keepsakes, 
souvenir photographs, taxicabs as the sole means 
of getting about, costly dinners with wines and cigars 
—all to be paid for out of gate money—these things 
belong with that theory of training which furnishes 
free automobile rides and theatre trips as a relief 
to the overtaxed nervous system of the university 
squads. It is things like these that give a handle 
to the enemy of athletic sports, and pamper or even 
pauperize strong men.
“I have in mind no one coach, no one team, no one 
college—merely the tendency of modern athletics in 
universities where gate receipts are high. That pet­
ting is not essential to victory, may be learned from 
the athlete history of the George Junior Republic. 
When an athlete feels that victory hangs on gratuit­
ous automobile rides, or on the substitution of squabs 
for chicken at the training table, I suspect that he is 
already beaten. I write this in full recognition of the 
terrific strain put on some temperaments by a great 
contest in rowing or in fotball.
“The establishing of advisory committees (formal 
or informal) in the major sports bids fair to work 
well. In rowing, its benefits are unquestioned; in 
football, it has brought marked gains; in baseball, 
the lack or it has injured our chance of success.
In my last report I dwelt on these offences against 
courtesy and fair play which threaten the very life 
of baseball as a game for gentlemen—offences which 
cannot honestly be laid at the door of the profession­
al player, whose game is often cleaner and quieter 
than that of the college amateur. It is pleasant to 
note that in 1910 baseball at Harvard was free from 
conspicous discourtesy. Yet throughout the country 
this sport and other sports suffer from low ideals. 
It is these low ideals that are responsible for the 
waste of money in nervating luxury to which I have 
already referred. It is they that give rise to the prac­
tices in baseball, scarcely creditable among gentle­
men, which I discussed last year. It is they also 
that have made possible the occasional outbreaks, 
the distrust, and the pathetic diplomacy in the rela­
tions of what should be noble rivals, such as Harvard 
and Yale. All that is needed to lift intercollegiate 
sport beyond the reach of just attack, and to put it 
where it belongs in physical, mental and moral edu­
cation, is simple honesty and common sense.”
INDOOR MEET NEXT WEEK.
The Indoor Inter-School Athletic meet will be held 
on Saturday morning, March 25, starting promptly 
at ten o’clock. The events include the following: 
20-yard dash,
Quarter-mile potato race,
Shot put,
Bar vault,
Three standing broad jumps,
Running high jumps,
Pole vault,
Rope climb.
No school will be allowed to enter more than four 
men in any one event. All entries must be made 
before 6 P. M. on Wednesday, March 22.
Practice will be held for all schools on Thursday 
and Friday of this week from 5 to 6. The Applied 
Science men will use the gymnasium on Monday, 
March 20, from 4 to 6 for preparing; the Applied 
Design School on Tuesday during the same hours, 
and the Applied Industries men will have exclusive 
use of the floor on Wednesday from 4 to 6. The 
object of the meet is to bring out material for the 
out-door meet this spring when the Hamerschlag 
trophy will again be contested for.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
MR. WM. H. STEVENSON SUGGESTS A SCHOOL 
OF APPLIED CITIZENSHIP.
On Thursday of last week Mr. W. H. Stevenson, 
formerly of the Pittsburgh Councils, and a leading 
business man of the city, delivered a lecture on the 
subject of “The City and the Young Man.” Mr. 
Stevenson’s lecture was very interesting throughout 
and is worthy of being printed in full in the Tartan, 
but as limited space precludes this, th3 Tartan here­
with publishes that part of his lecture embodying 
his suggestion that a School of Applied Citizenship 
be established in the Carnegie Technical Schools. 
The extract is as follows:
“Let me impress upon every young man here this 
morning that no other class of young men are 
charged with greater responsibilities in molding the 
future of the city than those who are trained in the 
arts and sciences as you are being trained. Few 
if any large projects demanding the services of men 
with technical training can be carried forth without 
having a corresponding influence on the city and 
city government. The erection of any great struc­
ture, municipal building, hospital, railroad terminal, 
school or high school, manufacturing plant, sky­
scraper, in fact any important architectural enter­
prise affects not only the entire city collectively, 
but employs the rights of citizenship and negotia­
tions with city officials. The same is true in regard 
to all our industrial corporations. If the railroad or 
track line is to be built, if a gas line is to be laid, 
municipal bids are to be sought, services are award­
ed, labor troubles arise; in these and many other 
contingencies the young man finds himself in direct 
contact with those to whom he has delegated the 
power to do the business of the city. With these 
great responsibilities how are you going to apply 
yourself?
When I picked up this morning’s paper I saw a 
column here containing some news from Baltimore. 
“New City in 1920 is Slogan of Baltimore,” and the 
general trend of the addresses that were made in 
the City-Wide Congress which is to have a three 
days’ session is along the lines of improving and 
expanding that city and practically making it a new 
city in 1920, and here are the fundamental plans, or 
the fundamental principles for the plans that they 
propose to carry out:—
First—Provision for a pure and abundant water 
supply.
Second—Proper plumbing of the dwellings and 
efficient drainage and sewerage systems. t
Third—Proper disposal of city’s waste.
Fouth—Proper paving and curbing of the streets.
Fifth—Adequate parks and playgrounds.
Sixth—Proper housing of the people.
Seventh—Proper planning of the city’s growth.
This is a very comprehensive and intelligent plan 
for rebuilding the city of Baltimore. They will need 
technical men in every one of these plans, and here 
is what I want to call youv attention to, the very
next sentence:—“The greatest obstacles in the de­
velopment of municipal public health work are of 
three kinds: First,” and this seems to be very im­
portant, and so I am not going to talk about the 
other two. This is like a young man I heard of 
who took a young lady to dinner one evening. He 
only had enough money to pay for the dinner, and 
he was afraid that she might suggest that they have 
a bottle of wine, and so she did. He said, “Oh, I 
have three very good, reasons for not drinking at 
all.” She said, “What are they?” “The first is,” he 
said, “I haven’t any money to pay for it,” where­
upon the lady said, “Well, never mind the other two 
reasons.” And likewise, I think this reason we have 
here eliminates the other two. The greatest ob­
stacles that enter into the development of the public 
work of a city are, “First—The lack of trained men 
with permanent tenure of office to administer sani­
tary affairs.” All the other reasons need not be 
spoken of, for that is the principal reason. Now, 
they are in demand, these trained men; the young 
men of today will be in demand. Are you going to 
lend yourself to dishonesty, to grind along the old 
lines, or will you trust yourself to men who are dele­
gated to honest public service? Will you perpetu­
ate grafting and its kindred evils, or will you use 
your best efforts and influence to abolish it?
Now, I am only trying to show you what is before 
you, because, as the Director said, I have had a little 
experience in this work. A dishonest contract can­
not be made without a party of the second part. 
You who seek to become skilled in the science of 
engineering, will you pass blindly upon contracts 
that hafe purposely avoided specifications? You 
who will plan great municipal and private enter­
prises in the future, are you shutting your eyes to 
honest policy and justice to secure privileges that 
violate the public rights?
The need of a course in Municipal Government 
has been felt and met. Over 40 universities and col­
leges are already giving instruction in Municipal 
Government. Yale has a class of nearly 500; the 
universities of Harvard, Chicago, Michigan and many 
other important institutions have already recognized 
the importance of this training. William H. Bald­
win has offered an annual prize for the best essay 
on an assigned subject related to Municipal Govern­
ment, confining the competitors to undergraduates 
of colleges where there is a recognized course in 
Municipal Government. This shows how important 
it is that every young man should know and under­
stand the duties and privileges of his rights as a 
citizen as well as to study and practice the questions 
of political economy.
In my experience in Councils I found that the ig­
norance displayed by some men that hold public 
positions is simply appalling. One man said, when 
brought before the Grand Jury, that he did not know 
the names of the committees in Councils. He fur­
ther said, “I am simply a fly in the buttermilk.” And 
Johnny Klein said that the only thing to do was to

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
go on the principle that “You scratch my back and 
I’ll scratch yours.” They had no intelligent con­
ception of the duties that were delegated to them 
when they were elected to that office by the citizens 
of the municipality.
It was reported recently in a public press that 
Mr. Carnegie, whose liberal and keen judgment has 
made possible this great and glorious School, would 
apply $100,000 annually to any practical extension 
of this important work, and that he invited sugges­
tions for increasing the efficiency of this institution. 
Now I want to give Mr. Carnegie a suggestion, and 
if it meets the approval of the young men here I 
hope they will support me in this suggestion, and I 
want to offer what I believe to be a timely one, the 
adoption of which would place the Carnegie Techni­
cal Schools in the van-guard of the institutions of 
learning in the United States, a suggestion, the 
adoption of which, I believe will fit the young men 
of this School to assume the duties and responsibil­
ities of citizenship as they are rarely assumed. As 
you have already established Schools of Applied 
Science, Applied Industries and Applied Design, why 
not have a School of Applied Citizenship, where tile 
practical questions of political economy could be 
taught to the young men who are going out, es­
pecially the trained young men, men of technical 
training, going out to meet all the temptations which 
I sinTply hint at this morning; why not have such 
a course in the Carnegie Technical Schools?
Pittsburgh has made itself a wonderful city in her 
great industrial enterprises. We are proud that 
Pittsburgh is becoming a center of art and educa­
tion, also, and we are proud that our city, among 
the few in the United States, had the courage to at­
tempt to “clean house.” Mr. Roosevelt last winter 
made a speech at the Exposition, and among other 
things said that “We must put the crook out of poli­
tics,” but in my experience it is .easier to put the 
crooks out of politics than it is to get an honest 
man into politics. That is my experience. Of 
course there are exceptions, but it is rare indeed to 
have a thoroughly honest and enthusiastic citizen 
who will sacrifice time and thought and energy for 
the public good. There are so many influences that 
surround a young man who is attached to all these 
various enterprises that require trained minds, and 
that the young men of these departments probably 
will be interested in in the next few years. Why is 
it so difficult to encourage honest men to take public 
office? Is it a lack of civic pride, or is he. ignorant 
of his responsibility? I think it is both, and I be­
lieve that this suggestion which I have made is so 
important that it should be brought to Mr. Carnegie’s 
attention.
We feel that if all these public improvements are 
to be made, and the trained young man is to come 
into contact with the men who have power delegated 
to them, he must know how he is to meet them on 
their own ground, and then he will work for the 
good of the people without regard to the past his­
tory which leads us to believe that most men are 
primarily interested in the corporation that employs 
them. Looking into the future with my dim pro­
phetic vision, I can see installed in the Carnegie 
Schools a department of Applied Citizenship, where 
municipal problems can be studied by the young 
men of today, where the principles of good govern­
ment, civic pride and an orderly and progressive 
citizenship will be taught not only for the direct im­
provement of Pittsburgh, but that this city shall at 
once become the municipal educational center where 
the citizer of all American cities can look and 
profitably take a lesson on progressive, economic 
self-government.”
AN EXPLANATION.
Two members of the Junior Mechanical Class 
have been going around with their eyes badly bung- 
ep up, looking for all the world as if they had been 
the honor guests at a Hungarian wedding.
Now, the Junior Mechanical Class, which, as a 
rule, lays claim to a fair degree of respectability and 
people to recognize its claim, feels that, when two 
of its members attend School with their blinkers on 
the blink, an explanation is necessary, in order that 
its reputation for sobriety and order may be main­
tained untarnished. Hence it has asked the Tartan 
to investigate and explain things to the public.
The Tartan finds that both of the injured gentle­
men are highly respected citizens of the United 
States, although one hails from Norwalk, Ohio, and 
the other from California.
Mr. Harry Holiday is the unfortunate gentleman 
who hails from Norwalk, Ohio, and according to his 
statement he was hit in the eye while playing basket­
ball. Now Harry is a very truthful man, and ap­
parently is held in great confidence by those who 
have seen fit to pay to him their half dollar sub­
scription to the Thistle, hence, although he hails 
from Norwalk, the Tartan is very much inclined to 
accept his statement.
However, it happens that Mr. Alfred Ormston 
witnessed the accident.
No doubt everyone is familiar with the name of 
Ormston, a name that will be forever connected 
with the brilliant and successful career of the 
Junior basket ball team because Mr. Ormston is the 
one, who, as manager, piloted the team on its con­
quering career.
Mr. Ormston is a quiet, unassuming gentleman 
who, as a rule, has very little to say about himself 
or anybody else and it is hard to get Mr. Ormston 
to talk about the brilliant part he took in guiding 
his team to success. However, be that as it may, 
the Tartan interviewed Mr. Ormston relative to the 
disaster to Mr. Holiday’s eye, which he witnessed 
knowing that what he would have to say in this 
direction could be regarded as final.
Mr. Ormston stated that Mr. Holiday was actually 
hit in the eye while playing playing basket ball.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
The Tartan feels satisfied that Mr. Holiday’s eye 
was decorated in the manner stated. Mr. Ormston 
is from Oil City.
Mr. Prank Dalas the other unforunate 
gentleman, the gentleman who hails from 
California, is a married man, and is unusually well 
behaved for such. According to his statement he 
foolishly tried to stop a snowball with his eye. Such 
a performance may or may not have been alright, 
but unfortunately Mr. Dalas neglected to remove 
his glasses before beginning the performance.
The reporter was inclined to disbelieve Mr. Dalas’ 
statement, but Mr. Ryman came to the rescue with 
the statement that' he witnessed the performance, 
and in fact was the other actor in it to the extent 
that he sped the snowball on its unerring course. 
The Tartan gathers that although Mr. Ryman has 
been affiliated with the Junior Mechanical Class for 
this past two years, he is still a very truthful man, 
although it might be said in passing that he is fast 
entering into the rough-neck business and is begin­
ning to tell stories of a questionable character.
The Tartan hopes that the evidence1 herewith 
given is sufficient to vindicate the two above-men­
tioned suspects and is sufficient to place the reputa­
tion of the Junior Mechanical Class on its original 
high plane.
The Tartan takes pleasure in announcing that 
Mr. Holiday’s and Mr. Dalas’ eyes look quite nor­
mal now.
LOST ON A TANGENT
To those gentlemen of a mechanical turn of mind 
who are fond of calculating the “cost per student 
hour” of morning chapel and other academical func­
tions, another calculation is suggested by some sta­
tistics recently gathered at the sister institution 
known as Wellesley College. At Wellesley it was 
found that 25 per cent, of the freshmen are suffra­
gettes, 33 per cent, of the sophomores, 36 per cent, 
of the juniors and 44 per cent, of the seniors. By 
the time, however, that the faculty is reached, there 
seems little hope left. Eighty per cent of the facul­
ty are reported on the suffragette side. Now here is 
an interesting problem in mathematics. A curve 
plotted from freshmen year on through the Gradu­
ate School to the faculty, shows a sharp rise towards 
its latter end. The question which now remaines 
to be settled is whether this curve represents men­
tal development or the progress of environment. 
Measuerd in the standards of efficiency followed by 
the best manufacturing plants is this curve to be read 
from freshman year upwards, or from the faculty 
downwards? Until some scientific business man in­
terprets these statistics in their true sense, it may 
be wiser to refrain from all comment on them what­
ever.—Yale Alumni Weekly.
Clarice—“Your a perfect ass.”
Harold—“Nobody’s perfect, dear.”—Ex.
BASE BALL PRACTICE.
Indoor base ball practice has been held in the 
Field House during the last week, and, while it is 
too early to say that the new men out for the team 
will make the ’Varsity players of last year look like 
that departed period of time, a few predictions, based 
on facts, may be ventured. One is, that the team 
that will represent Carnegie Tech will be stronger 
than any in the last two years. Thirty-five men 
have reported to Capt. “Bill” Moorhead to date, and 
a number of others are waiting for warmer weather. 
Ten of these have had previous experience in pitch­
ing, and this department, which has lacked material 
for some time, should be well filled this season. 
Seven of the old nine are working out and show no 
evidence of having gone stale.
A fine schedule has been arranged for the coming 
season and Carnegie Tech will be able to measure 
up with all the strong college teams of this section.
A letter upon the Panama Canal from Dr. H. S. 
Drinker, President of Lehigh University, to the 
“Brown and White,” the University organ, has been 
entered in the congressional Record as part of the 
proceedings in the proposal to fortify the Panama 
Canal. $3,000,000 has just been voted by the House 
for the proposed fortifications.
R. A. PORTERFIELD GOES WEST.
It is with great regret that we tell our readers 
Mr. Robert A. Porterfield has left Tech to accept 
a responsible position with The Kuhn Irrigation 
Company, of Pittsburgh, and is now on irrigatien 
work in the State of California.
Pete combined the three qualities of excellent 
scholarship, prominence in class activities and good 
fellowship, which, when found in a single man, 
makes it hard to part with him. We wish him every 
success in his new work.
MUTTS MEET.
A few days sin^e there was held a a spontaneous 
meeting of the Mutts. Despite vigorous resistance, 
several members of the Junior Civil Section became 
Fellow-Mutts. Several other men who attempted 
gayety and disregard for the dignity of this organ­
ization were given a fuller understanding of the 
strength and efficiency of the Great Strike. After 
the service, trials, and subsequent administering of 
justice, love-feast was served at the commons by 
Bro. Jack Allen. Then it was that the feeling of 
friendship .and good fellowship descended upon the 
gathering. Papers were read on the advancement 
of good scholarship and views were exchanged as to 
the ways and means necessary to continue the high 
standing of the Civil Department. Up to the pres­
ent time the “Spax” has not been closed, which ac­
counts for the excellent weather we are having.

---------------------------------------------------

sTHE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts­
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
Donald D. Mitchell, ’12................Editor-in-Chief
David Henderson, ’12...........Associate Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13................................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, ’11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, ’11, M.M.C.S., Assis’t Editor 
W. H. Buente, ’12........................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, ’11...................Business Manager
G. G. Kelcey, ’14.................Advertising Manager
CLASS REPRESENTATIVES
Day Classes 
School of Applied Science
R.. P. Bascom...........................................................1911
...............................................................1912
E. E. Duff, Jr.........................................................*1913
H. J. Kennedy .......................................................1914
School of Applied Design
J. H. Barker ...........................................................1913
School of Applied Industries
W. T. Ahlers ............................................................1911
J. C. McCarthy.........................................................1913
Night Classes ,
School of Applied Science
O. A. Grant ...........................................................Prep.
School of Applied Design 
School of Applied Industries
Subscription Rates
Yearly .......................................................................$2.00
Single Copy........... ......................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly  .................................................................$1.00
Single Copy........................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
TARTAN EXCHANGES TO BE FOUND IN 
SMOKING ROOM
The Tartan will in the future turn over to Chair­
man Witte and his fellow committeman the exchang­
es that are received. It is the intention of the com­
mittee to have these papers from the various col­
leges stamped, dated and then placed in the 
Smoking Room for the use of the students. It is to 
be hoped that when placed on the tables they will 
be properly used and not thrown about, not es­
pecially because of their intrinsic value but rather 
because there may be other students who desire to 
read them and because it will also add greatly to 
the neatness of the room if they remain in their pro­
per places.
Through the courtesy of the members of the Smok­
ing Room committee the Tartan has secured an 
office in the Science Building, t is to be located in 
Room 21, commonly called the Committtee Room, 
and it is expected that the desk will be placed this 
week. The room will still All its place for the various 
committees.
THE TARTAN'S OFFICE
We call attention to the new cover on the Tartan 
this week. The design is the work of Miss Louise 
Miller, of the School of Applied Design, and re­
ceived the award of the second prize in the contest 
held recently.
WITH WHICH WE ENTIRELY AGREE.
The Way Pitt Felt About the Third Game.
Below we print in full an article from the Pitt 
Weekly concerning the third of the series of basket 
ball games that were to have been played for the city 
championship. With the sentiment expressed, we 
entirely agree. The article was as follows:
The third game of the series with Carnegie Tech 
will not occur as originally intended by the man­
agers of the two teams. The place of playing the 
third game was the obstacle in the way of peaceful 
negotiations, which barred the friends of both insti­
tutions from seeing the final encounter of the two 
fives. Manager Hurst alleges the contract called 
for the third contest to be played at the Gardens, 
while Manager Blanchard, of Tech, was equally firm 
in his determination that the contract read other­
wise. Regardless of the merit of either side of the 
contention, it is unfortunate that the championship 
of the city could not be determined. The disagree­
ments of this character are more harmful to thé 
community than the managers of the teams can im­
agine. Two institutions the size and prestige of 
Pitt and Tech should be able to conduct their ath­
letic affairs without such petty squabbles.
CHARACTER
Character gives weight to one’s words and perman­
ence to one’s acts: Character secures the confidence 
of those who employ us, the respect of those above 
us, the love of those on our level, the loyalty of those 
beneath. Character is the guinea stamp on the gold, 
the ring of the genuine coin, the signature at the 
foot of the portrait.
FOOT BALL MEN, ATTENTION!
All of last year’s foot ball squad and Managers 
Scott and Lamoree are requested to report at the 
gymnasium at 5 o’clock on Friday evening, March 18, 
without fail,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
I THE DEAN’S COLUMN |
LIFE’S VALUES.
*
If the bridge over the ravine leading to the Schools 
could speak—what interesting things we should 
learn concerning the stream of humanity which 
moves across it daily! We should be able to know 
much about the lagging, discouraged foot,—the 
happy, onward springing march—the weary, feeble 
step—and the energetic assured walk.
This daily procession of youths and maidens means 
an effort, on their part, not only to arrive at the 
doors of the Schools, but, also, at the fountain of 
Knowledge and of Wisdom. This knowledge, if ac­
curate, and this wisdom, which is knowledge applied 
to right ends, should give them some perception of 
real values in life—the worth of knowledge—how it 
becomes power—and where it fails unless united to 
high ideals.
This gives much food for thought—Do these stu­
dents passing over the bridge say, like the old Ger­
man philosopher, “I walk with myself, I talk with 
myself and myself replies to me.”
Whar, answers do they get as to the aim and ob­
ject of life? What do the clouds and the trees say 
to them? Do they realize the beauty of the situation 
of the schools?
The boy Lillo, in George Eliot’s Romola, says:
“I should like to be something that would make 
me a great man, and a very happy one besides,— 
something which would not hinder me from having 
a great deal of pleasure.”
And Romola answers: “That is not easy, my Lillo. 
It is only a poor sort of happiness that could ever 
come by caring very much about our own narrow 
pleasures. We can only have the highest happiness, 
such as goes along with being a great man, by hav­
ing wide thoughts, and much feeling for the rest of 
the world as well as for ourselves; and this sort of 
happiness often brings so much pain with it that we 
can only tell it from pain by its being what we 
would choose before everything else, because our 
souls see it is good. And so, my Lillo, if you mean 
to act nobly, and seek to know the best things God 
has put within the reach of men, you must learn to 
fix your mind on that end, and not on what will 
happen to you because of it. And remember, if you 
were to choose something lower, and make it the 
rule of your life to seek your own pleasure and 
escape from what is disagreeable, calamity might 
come, just the same; and it would be a calamity 
falling on a base mind, which is the one form of sor­
row that has no balm in it, and that may well make 
a man say—‘It would have been better for me if I 
had never been born.’ ”
And so, after all, things apprehended only by the 
mind are not enough—things trained into the dex­
terity of the hand not enough—but both, united to
the feeling of the heart, and then utilized for the 
common good, must be. one of the ways to meet the 
great problem of life—and the will to do this its 
much!
Over the door of the great Hall in Aix-La-Cha- 
pelle is this sentence:
“Three things make one a master of an art— 
knowledge, power and will.”
If the Schools can give the right knowledge—and 
draw out the power of the individual—is it too much 
to ask that individual to will to use this knowledge 
for the largest, noblest and least selfish ends?
Let us hope that the bridge may, more and more, 
hear the steady assured step of controlled power— 
and, as the years go on, rejoice in its part of sus­
taining, and helping across a chasm, a noble hu­
manity.
Clara Linforth West.
WHITE FRIAR PLANS
As was announced some time ago, the White 
Friars decided to make a change in their plans for 
the coming season and substitute a musical bur-f 
lesque and satirical caricature of Pittsburgh for the 
original plan of a Mexican Musical Show. The new 
play is now being written by Messrs. Hagg & Seible, 
of the Post and Gazette respectively, and it is ex­
pected that it will soon be far enough along for the 
chorus to begin their work. Through neglect upon 
the part of the officers of the club the play can not 
be put on as early as planned, but will come off 
about the same time that it has in previous years, 
along the latter part of May.
The management expects to call for chorus candi­
dates soon and all interested are requested to watch 
the bulletin boards and these columns for the dates.
| CRAFTMAN’S CLUB *
4* 4*
The officers of the Craftsman’s Club for the en­
suing year are as follows:
President—Howard Menking.
Vice President—Leon Haas.
Secretary-Treasurer...............Harry Lippert.
Executive Committee.
A. J. Rodgers; C. W. Hogenroder,
S. J. Findlay.
Tartan Representatives.
Alex. Findlay and G. C. Swyers.
Thistle Representative.
Mr. Carr.
At the Smoker to be held on the evening of the 
17th, we expect to have a royal good time with 
plenty of smokes, music, and amusements. Mr. 
Connelly will be kind enough to furnish the moving 
pictures and also a speech. The class quartet will 
perform. Remember, that it will be on St. Patrick’s 
day in the evening, and bring your friends along.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
PROF. TRINKS ON “THE SMOKE NUISANCE”INTER-STATE TOURNAMENT CLOSED.
Before an appreciative audience in the Science 
lecture hall on last Wednesday evening, Prof Trinks 
delivered a lecture on the smoke nuisance. This 
was the third lecture of the Science course, scheduled 
for Wednesday evenings during March and April.
Prof. Trinks showed that, while the entire elimin­
ation of smoke is impossible, by the use of preheated 
air in a furnace and intelligent stoking smoke can 
be reduced to a minimum. He also made clear that, 
because furnace users save nothing by the installa­
tion of smoke consumers, is not reason why such de­
vices should not be used, and gave estimates by 
which the Cleveland Chamber of Commerce placed 
the loss to citizens by damage to property at one 
dollar a head per month. Basing estimate on the 
same expenses,Pittsburgher’s, he said, easily spend 
one dollar and one-half per head in a month. The 
damage to health and plant life was not included in 
these approximations, and would raise the expense 
enormously.
The fact that Judge Schaefer on March 3 last de­
clared Pittsburgh’s present smoke ordinance illegal 
was deplored, but hope for the new bill now in the 
legislature was held forth. Prof. Trinks’ lecture was 
well illustrated by lantern slides and timely copy­
righted jokes.
TWO OFFICERS ELECTED.
At a meeting of the Plebes of the Applied Indus­
tries on Wednesday, March 8, two new officers were 
elected. C. W. Peppell to fill the office of Class Treas­
urer and J. C. McCarthy for Tartan Representative.
The cabinet now stands as follows:
A. E. Hamilton........................................................President
A. R. Veder...................................................Vice President
C. Barnhart ___,..................................................Secretary
C. W. Peppel ..........................................................Treasurer
J. Rogers ................................................................Historiau
J. C. McCarthy ............................Tartan Representative
After many disappointments Nature finally smiled 
in such a way that the Industrial Plebes were able
to have their class picture taken. The picture was
taken on Thursday, March 9, on the steps in front 
of the Applied Industries and is considered a great 
success. It will be used in the coming “Thistle.”
PROMINENT VSITORS OF THE WEEK
Among the visitors of the week were included 
Mr. N. W. Emery, assistant to the President of Le­
high University; Rev. Frank Nelson, Rector of Christ 
Church, Cincinnati; Mr. Hale of the Pennsylvania 
Lines West, and Mr. L. H. Turner, Superintendent 
of the Motive Power of the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie 
Lines.
The Mechanicals call themselves “canners of En­
tropy.” Doubtless, Entropy has “canned” many of 
them.—Ex.
The basket ball tournament in the Inter-Class 
League closed Monday, March 13, with two forfeited 
games. The Middle ^.nd Upper teams of the Ap­
plied Industries School failed to appear to play the 
Science Juniors and Seniors. The Applied Design 
Plebes and the Sophs of the same school were 
scheduled to play a game, but neither team ap­
peared and each was credited with a loss. The 
final standing is:
Class. W. L. Standing.
Science Plebes .................................. 7 0 1.000
Science Sophs .................................... 6 1 .857
Science Junior and Senior............... 5 2 .714
Industries Plebes .............................. 3 4 .429
Industries Middle and Upper......... 1 6 .143
Design Plebes...................................... 0 7 .000
Design Sophs ...................................... 0 7 .000
Design Juniors and Seniors........... 0 7 .000
PLEBES WIN FROM JUNIORS.
Plebes—17
G—Jonap-Wentzel 
F—Little-Turkle-Bromley 
C—Jack-Roberts
Juniors'—9.
Mackintosh-Cushwa
Tawdy-Rutherford
Hollinger-Gerwig
The Juniors, played a good game, but owing to 
their lack of practice they could not do themselves 
justice.
The passing by the Plebes was the best they have 
shown so far.
Goals—Mabel, Towdy 2, Miss Rutherford 2 field 
goals and 1 foul goal. Miss Little, 6 field goals, 1 
foul. Miss Turkle, 1 field goal, 1 foul. Miss Brom- 
ly. 1 field goal.
NOTICE TO TRACK MEN.
All candidates for the track team are asked to re­
port to Capt. Waite or to Manager McCorkle imme­
diately, as the men wili be called out on the track 
this week. Many of the men have been working in­
doors and are already in good condition, and it is 
necessary that the others get the essential prelim­
inary work.
One thing at a time.
“How is the new filing system? Success?” asked 
the agent of the merchant to whom he had sold a 
“system” a few days before.
“Great!” said the merchant.
“Good,” said the agent, rubbing his hand. “And 
how is business?”
“Business?” echoed the merchant. “Oh, we have 
stopped business to attend to the filing system.”
No one has any more right to go about unhappy 
than he has to go about ill-bred.—L. Whiting.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
* ** Next Week at the Theatres |
[Editor’s Note.]—The fact that we owe it to our­
selves in particular and to the theatre going public 
in general to support only such plays and amuse­
ments as have merit, worth, and a right to existence 
has often been pointed out to us. As Mr. C. M. Beggs 
recently stated in a lecture on “The Proper Use of 
the Theatre,” delivered at the University of Pitts­
burgh, the college men and women are the ones who 
should, for reasons obvious, be the most discrimin­
ative in the selecting of plays to go and see, and it 
is in order that Tech men may have some knowledge 
of the attractions to appear in the local houses that 
the Tartan will each week run this column contain­
ing a brief, but to the point, summation of the offer­
ings for the following week. This information is 
gathered from a most reliable source and can be 
depended upon in all cases.]
Nixon.—Robert Hilliard in play, “A Fool There 
Was.” Play has been seen here. Is thoroughly dra­
matic but intensely disagreeable. Another variation 
of the old question of sex.
Alvin.—A Musical Comedy in German, sung by 
German Company, headed by celebrated German 
comedian, Konrad Dieber. Music said to be very 
tine.
Duquesne.—Stock Company will present “Her Own 
Way,” a pleasant little play used several seasons by 
Miss Maxine Elliott.
Grand.—“The Soul Kiss.” A worthless and some­
what offensive mixture of music and specialties. Not 
recommended.
CHOICES IN CHESS.
In the number of possible moves, chess stands 
alone among games; and not only is it perfectly safe 
to say that no living man has ever made, even once, 
every possible move, but it is highly improbable 
that in all the centuries of the history of the game 
has every possible move been made.
The different ways of playing the first four moves 
on each side are so numerous that if every man, 
woman and child in a city of half a million popula­
tion were to set to work playing them at the rate of 
four moves a minute, night and day, it would be more 
than a year before any one would be able to leave 
the chess-board.
PUBLICITY COMMITTEE REPORT
The publicity or “boosting” committee has finaly 
completed the task of obtaining and arranging in a 
definite, uniform and consistent order, the data con­
cerning the high and prep schools now represented 
by students in the Day School of Applied Science. 
A man to man canvas has been made in every sec­
tion or division and in each case the school, the 
names of the principal or professor in charge and 
the student giving the information were secured. 
This data has been given to the office force so that 
catologs and circulars may be sent to the various 
schools, reference being made to the student or stu­
dents in school. In this way we hope to show “prep” 
school men just what is being accomplished at Car­
negie Tech.
At this time of the year high school men through­
out the entire country are deciding upon the school 
or college they desire to go to for the preparation 
of some line of work which will enable them to more 
easily obtain a flying start in this old world. As the 
statistics show, this information will be distributed 
far and wide and will help greatly some of the grad­
uating classes.
The following statistics show a few interesting
facts:
Total Number of schools..................................................160
Penna ........................................................................................69
Ohio ...........................................................................................23
New York ...............................................................................22
New Jersey and Maryland each 6—Mass. 5—West 
Virginia 4—Kentucky 3—Maine, Virginia and Col­
orado each 2—North Carolina, Texas, Washington, 
California, Canada, Iowa, Connecticut, Kansas, Min­
nesota, Arkansas, Oregon, Illinois, Idaho, Holland, 
Sweden and Dennmark each 1.
About 80 per cent of the total student enrollment 
responded. R. Laurie, Chairman
HIS MONEY’S WORTH.
“Sixtane shilluns a da’ did they charrge me for 
my room at the hotel in Lunnon!” roared Sandy, 
indignantly, on his return to Croburgh Burghs from 
a sight-seeing expedition.
“Ou, aye, it wasna cheap,” agreed his father; “but 
ye must ’a’ had a gey fine time seein’ the sichts.”
“Sein’ the sichts!” roared Sandy. “I didna see a 
sicht a’ the time I was in Lunnon. Mon mon, ye 
dinna suppose I was going to be stuck that much 
for a room, an’ then no get the proper use o’t!”— 
Tit-Bits.
l . £ Remember that the Musical Club's Concert will | 
I be held in Carnegie Music Hall on March 28th \
1 - «

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE K I I) DC). . w -1" . . -
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS EOR THE FALL STYLES
AMONG THE COLLEGES.
STUDENT AID BUREAU £*
Manager of electric lighting plant connected with 
hotel in West Virginia. Plant includes two 50 h p 
gas engines driving A C generators and supplying 
light for the hotel and many houses in the surround­
ing borough. Salary $85-$100 per month.
Assistant to Purchasing Agent of large manufact­
uring firm near Pittsburgh. Wages $75 per month.
Chemist on iron and steel analysis. $50-$60 per 
month.
Office assistant for manufacturing firm in Pitts­
burgh. Salary $50-$60 per month.
Assistant foreman in drop forging plant in Pitts­
burgh. Wages estimated at $75 per month at the 
start. V ' ,
Bank clerk. Salary $30 per month.
Structural draftsman, Washington, D. C. $1800 per 
year.
Designer on foundation work. Salary -125-$150 per 
month.
Draftsman and tracers. Connellsville, Pa.
Equipment engineer for telephone company. Dut­
ies include thè placing and inspection of equipment, 
measuring up buildings, etc. Salary at start $60-$70 
per month.
Mechanical engineer on light-house work—man 
experienced in design of pumps, air compressors, 
gasoline and oil engines, hoisting machinery, etc. 
Salary $1800 per year.
Friend—John, wasn’t that a good box of cigars I 
gave you? «
John—I never saw a better box.—Ex.
The freshmen at Cornell receive a novel receipt 
for their class dues. The receipt is a small, round, 
white button with the numerals “1914” and the words, 
“Taxed. Are you?”
At Illinois the athletes who have won the ‘Varsity 
letter two years in succession are awarded a blanket 
with the “I” upon it.
“Darling,” he whispered,
I never loved but thee.”
Said the maid, “We must part.
No amateur for me.—Ex.
It is better to be called down by your friends than 
to be shown up by your enemies.
Candor in the Home—“Your sister’s a long time 
about making her appearance,” suggested the caller.
“Well,” said the little brother, “she’d be a sight 
if she came down without making it.”—Ex...
An Advertisement
Position Wanted—Young architect with two years’ 
experience wishes employment. Air castles a spec­
ialty.—Ex.
Skinner says: When is a chicken drunk? Answer: 
When it’s stewed.—Ex.
H. E. Beck, ’09, Science, is assistant chemist for 
the Carnegie Steel Company at Sharon, Pa. Two 
years ago Mr. Beck made a chemical analysis of vari­
ous grades of cheaper candy, for which he has re­
ceived much praise. The report of his analysis is 
published in a pamphlet entitled,“School-houses and 
School Habits and the Physical Development of the 
Body,” which is issued by Dr. Simonton of this city.
The members of Phi Beta Kappa among the Amer­
ican Rhodes Scholars who are now studying at Ox­
ford University, have organized themselves into a 
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the honorary scholastic 
society, with the intention of extending the society 
into foreign soil as a recognition of scholastic abil­
ity and achievement.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
Jas. J. Flannery, President. J. J. Booth, Vice-President. J. G. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres. and Sec'y
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL­
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS­
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
ALUMNI NOTES.
In a letter to H. J. McCorkle, H. W. Gottfried, 
Science, ’10, writing from Mexico City, promises to 
write a letter of his experiences and impressions for 
publication in these columns. He is working for the 
Company Ingeniera, Importadora Y. Contratista, S. 
A. (if that assists you any), and is enjoying his 
work.
Robert Parsons, Science, ’08, was in town for over 
Sunday from Akron, where he is now working. He 
visited the Schools on Saturday.
Several Alumni and old White Friar men took part 
in the production of “Miss Mistaken,” last year’s 
White Friar play, at the Highland Theatre, where 
recently it was given by a small group of amateurs 
for a local charity. It was said that the production 
was not as good as that of the White, Friars in spite 
of the addition of real girls to the cast and chorus. 
It will be repeated at the same place this Saturday, 
March 18th, and those caring to may see it for the 
small sum of fifty cents.
Ewens—“They secured the mountain tops for here­
tics.”
Mrs. Vermoercken—“It was the Dutch!”
Miss Williams—“Girls, where is Clairton?”
Miss Swickard—'“Isn’t that where the workhouse 
is?”
Mrs. Vermorcken—“What kind of government was 
there?”
Miss Long—“A Commonwealth. I don’t suppose 
the king ruled.”
Mrs. V.—“No,—he had been executed.”
When a woman wants to say anything mean per­
taining to men in general she says they are all alike.
Fame is a glorious thing, but a small regular in­
come is much more satisfactory to the average man.
Don’t tell your troubles. It doesn’t do any good, 
and besides it takes up tre other fellow’s time who 
wants to tell you his.—Sel.
VXNVN*
8 OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET >
^ Dealers in <5o BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE s f AND CANNED GOODS «
J 3714 FORBES STREET 5Bell Phone Schenley
OBSERVATION COLUMN
Prof. Willet always goes to his office between 
classes in order to light his cigar he leaves on 
his desk and which invariably goes out during the 
hour.i . ;
Prof. Trinks is fonder of colored chalk than any 
other member of the faculty and always makes the 
most of his chances to use it.
Prof. Follows is a great angler and has made some 
of his own rods. Prof. Keller says that it is a tie 
race between Mr. Follows and Mr. Leeds in regard 
to fish stories. We, personally, favor the Sage from 
Old Forge with his story of a trout which toWes his 
boat for him every time he goes for the mail.
There can be found, upon search, certain students 
who call the monthly examinations “exdaminations.”
Mr. Lowe, the friend of the Sophomores, professes 
a great fondess for a cocoa-wood pipe.
CAREFULLY THOUGHT OUT
Job was one of the boilers that did not explode.
After praying for goodness some people forget to 
be good.
Sometimes men blow out the gas after blowing 
in all the money.
It is reported that a St. Louis boy ate so much 
honey he was attacked by hives.
Every man has his particular bent—especially af­
ter he gets in the rheumatic class.
When a man begins to go down hill he meets a 
lot of people with their noses turned up.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
raEM3®ajajaiaM^Efajaiaja®a®ajsMaaMaMaMa®aE®si 
M. M. C. S.
e e
SMSMSI3I5I3ISiBJ3MSMSiS®SJ3MiaM5EiSJajaiSI3M5i5ISM31Si
MR. HORNBOSTEL LECTURES TO M. M. C. S.
Last Tuesday afternoon Mr. Hornbostel lectured 
to the faculty and students of M. M. C. S. on the 
subject of “Architecture in Mexico and Yucatan.” 
As Mr. Hornbostel is the architect of the School, 
everyone was glad to see him and hear his lecture.
In opening he gave a resume of his trip into the 
wilds of Mexico and Yucatan. He told how he and 
a friend “ran away for a month” to examine the an­
cient architecture of these countries. They were 
the first architects to examine these picturesque 
ruins. His account of the hardships they encoun­
tered, the poor traveling accommodations, and still 
poorer food, which at least, as he said, gave them 
“fashionable figures,” made a very interesting story.
The lecture was illustrated by stereopticon views. 
The pictures were of very picturesque churches, 
temples, and ruins of arches. These ruins show that 
the architecture of ancient Mexico and Yucatan was 
surpassed only by that of Greece. It was mostly on 
the Spanish order, much of the decorations being 
mosaic work. Arches were much used and the rat­
tlesnake pillars appeared at the doors of many tem­
ples, while the rattlesnake head appeared often as a 
decoration for the walls. One ruin, which was es­
pecially interesting, was that of a large pyramid 
which has recently been discovered.
Mr. Hornbostel’s lecture was greatly enjoyed 'by 
all and all extend him a hearty invitation to return 
soon and tell more of the wonderful architecture 
and sculpture of these countries so near our own.
Coyle, baseball manager at Wiscosin, is arrang­
ing the tour of the Keio University (Japan) team in 
this country. He is reported as sending out letters 
to various American universities asking for con­
tracts for games in the spring. The University of 
Washington, Wisconsin and Chicago are already 
on the list for several games. When the University 
of Washington team went to Japan in 1907 it exper­
ienced no difficulty in winning from the brown men, 
but other teams that have gone there since did not 
have so easy a time. Chicago and Wisconsin have 
both been to the “land of the rising sun” since Wash­
ington showed the way, and each had to hustle to 
beat the fast Orientals. The Japanese have taken 
a great liking to the game and they turn out great 
to the contests. As high as 30,000 persons witnessed 
some of the engagements between American and 
Nipponse teams.
Upon their inspection trip, the Senior Mechan­
icals of Case visit plants in Cleveland, Toledo, Chi­
cago, Milwaukee, and St. Louis. The trip lasts two 
weeks.
Syracuse gives two hours of college credit to any 
student who participates in a varsity debate.
Yale may receive a $50,000,000 endowment if the 
trustees are able to arrange it. The present endow­
ment is about $13,000,000 but is proving inadequate 
with increasing demands on the university.
A college is soon to be established at Fort Hare, 
Cape Province, South Africa.
Lack of participation in athletics, lack of intellec­
tual independence, and moral backbone are given by 
Dr. Faunce, of Brown, as the causes of ^lonesome- 
ness.
Football at Harvard last year netted the Athletic 
Association a profit of $57,108. The only other sports 
that showed a profit during the year ending July 31, 
1910, were baseball and -tennis.
The junior class at Columbia has negotiated a loan 
of $100 from a merchant to help defray temporarily 
the expenses of the junior promenade.
At the Massachusetts Institue of Technology, a 
system has been inaugurated by which all of the so- 
called “college honors” are rated and no man is al­
lowed to have more than a specific number .of points. 
It is said that the activities are no longer embar­
rassed by the overloading of any one or more men 
and that no individual is allowed to identify him­
self with so many interests that his original purpose 
is lost sight of. This system is being considered in 
several eastern universities.
The University of Wisconsin will establish a school 
for forest rangers, the course to consist of two years 
work, including practical work in summer on the 
State forest reserves.
The students of the University of Utah are con­
sidering the practicability of instituting student con­
trol of that institution.
A fraternity man spends $150 a year more than a 
non-fraternity man, according to the figures pre­
sented by a student at Illinois.
AMONG THE COLLEGES
At the first call for candidates for track work at 
Lafayette, 40 men responded. Only two of these 
were veterans.
She was a girl at Vassar
And he was a Princeton man,
And during the Newport season 
They gathered a coat of tan 
Which caused unlimited wonder.
People cried, “What a disgrace!” 
For each of the pair was sunburned 
On the opposite side of the face.—Ex.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
DOES THIS INTEREST YOU?
We have a good position open to a young man of 
character, during the summer vacation. If the applicant 
chosen desires, we can start him now with Saturday 
work. Call at Johnson Studios, 241 Fifth Avenue.
He was Temperate
“Well, Andrew,” said a merchant to a Scottish 
elder who had called to see him, “you must have a 
drop of something before you go.”
“No, thank ye! was the firm reply. “I’ve three 
guid reasons for refusing your hospitality. First, I’m 
chairman of the local temperance society; second, 
I’m just gaein’ tae a kirk meetin’; and third, I’ve 
just had one!”—Ex.
“Oh,” she whispered when he slipped the engage­
ment ring on her tapering finger, “how sweet of you 
to remember just the sort of stone I prefered! None 
of the others were ever so thoughtful.”
He was staggered for a moment and then came 
back with “Not at all, dear. You overrate me. This 
is the one I’ve always used.—Ex.
“Ignorance is bliss.” No wonder so many people 
look happy.
Engineering students of the University of Minne­
sota are constructing an elevated railroad three miles 
long to be used for experimental purposes.
He stood before a cold grave-stone,
I thought his mind was on the dead.
But soon he raised his eyes to mine—
“That’s feldspar there,” he said.—Record.
$ JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY, $
Craig and Forbes St., *
3 Beginners’ Class Tuesday and Saturday.
)» Advanced, Wednesday and Friday. x
PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY. 5^
* RANDOLPH & MoCLEMEIMTS £ 
. . . Floral Experts ... ¡¡f
DECORATIONS FOR ALL OCCASIONS $4*Two Stores /
Baum and Beatty Penn and Highland 4*
* .4* TSubscriptions to the Tartan for the balance of ^
the School Year may be obtained from the Man- £
ager or Assistants at the rate of 50c.
4* jThe old system of using a heated iron * 
4* and a dirty cloth presses the grime and dirt 4* 
| into your garments. Our san'tary machine 4!
steams it all out, and removes permanently 
4* the dirt, perspiration, odor and grime. 4*
4* See Shuman, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 4* 
| Forbes Street. *
Shifting the Burden—Father (sternly)—Can you 
support my daughter in the manner she’s been ac­
customed to?
Lover—Yes, sir; I’m sure I can.
Father—Well, I can’t do it any longer, so take her, 
my boy.—Ex.
Mr. Blobbs dined the other evening with some 
friends. When the guests were seated the host bent 
his head and began speaking in a subdued tone.
“Eh, what’s that?” demanded Blobbs, who sat be­
side him, and who is rather deaf.
The host smiled patiently and began again in a 
louder voice.
“Speak a little louder; I don’t catch what you say,” 
Blobbs persisted.
A low ripple of laughter went round the table. 
The host, his face crimson with embarrassment, 
raised his voice still higher. The poor old man did 
his best to hear, but failed.
“What did you say?” he demanded irascibly.
“Pa.”
“Yes, Willie.”
“Pa, how is it that my hair has grown longer than 
yours when yours has grown longer than mine?”— 
Boston Transcript.
\4>\4>%4>\4>\4>\4>\4>V!>\4*4>%4'\4*\4'\4*\4*\4*\4*\4> 4* *See the Tartan Manager for student rates on 4|
* the following scientific papers; £
^ The Electric Railway Journal
4* The Electrical World 'f.> 4>4. The Engineering Record ^
* 4*
4*4*4-4*4*4-4*4*4*4*
TECH BARBER SHOP
Forbes and Craig Sts.
H. F. VAN CUREN, Prop.
Be a patron of the shop where all the Tech men go
“If you had to choose between me and a million 
dollars, which would you take?”
“I’d take the million; after that you’d be easy.”
—Clipped.
Mrs. Cobb—Was the grocer’s boy impudent to you 
again when you telephoned your order this morn­
ing?
The Cook—Yes, Mrs. Cobb, he was that; but I 
fixed him this time. I sez, “Who the hell do you 
think you’re talkin’ to? This is Mrs. Cobb.”—Life.

---------------------------------------------------

Oswald Werner & Sons Co
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
The ne\y Spring Scarfs and Four-in 
hands are about the smartest we’ve seen 
—great assortments 50c to $1.00.* GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO. *
4» Fine Groceries Table Delicacies «fr
>> Cakes and Candies *
J Two Stores: *
•fr 606 Wood Street, Downtown 4*
Highland and Center Avenues, E. E.
4* *3° *$**!'•*£• 4* ¦$•*$* 4* a$*a^
Hi Bell Phone
& DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO. ft
O 532 Pittsburg Life Building ft
UJ Iyiberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa. W
(jj We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxe dos, PHnce (T( ^ . Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats. O
osceo~.c^^soHc»Hososce:osc'SOso^:^ceoH‘:4i
a%O3CO%O\0%O\D%'0%O^'O\O\O\O%O%C^OSD\C*V 
q' THE SCHENLEY FARMS §
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 HFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
$4,000,000 <3
M. O$3,200,000 '*>
The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and 
profit.
O. C. HENRY 
321 Fifth Avenue
PHOTOGRAPHS 
We make a specialty of School Groups, Class 
and Fraternity Pictures 
Prices the lowest and work the best
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
4* 9.45 A. M.—Brotherhood Bible Study.
11:00 A.M.—Morning Service.
% , 7:00 P.M.—Y. P. S. C. E.4*8:00 P.M.—Evening Service.
* SPORTSMEN’S SUPPLY COMPANY, INC. *
4» Guns, Ammunition, Sporting Goods, Cutlery 4* •it "I*3, and Fishing Tackle 4,
* Cameras, Canoes, Supplies for all In and Out-
| Door Athletic Sports and Recreations 4.
^ 619 Smithfield Street - - PittsburghAll Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome j
The World’s Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the World’s Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING m *
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie. 5 £
)
