Volume 91, Issue 2Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 19069 September 1996
Dining Services receives makeover
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
DingSeir vcsS makS goeoeP alioaer Ioiv ivS eSI NG ,aag panki3
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
With all of the happenings at 
Carnegie Mellon in the last few 
months, one might not notice 
how the dining facilities at Car­
negie Mellon have changed. Not 
only have new dining facilities 
appeared throughout campus in 
the form of vendors in the Uni­
versity Center and food carts
throughout campus, but changes 
have occurred at traditional fa­
cilities as well.
Each vendor has a contract with 
the University and revenues are 
shared based on a negotiated 
agreement. The University Cen­
ter food booths and the negoti­
ated two- to three-year contracts 
are flexible in that new vendors 
can be contracted to replace cur­
rent ones if so desired.
Neal Binstock, assistant vice 
president for Business Services, 
described the revenue sharing 
structure of the negotiated con­
tracts. “Carnegie Mellon must 
recover certain costs that we have 
in the University Center. Those 
things relate to utilities, mainte­
nance, security, custodial 
[costs].... Secondly, we have ne­
gotiated agreements with them 
as a percent of the gross commis­
sions that we receive,” he said.
He added that “the design of 
the budget is not to extract prof­
its from the system.” One issue 
that is being addressed is the 
large debt which dining services 
has amassed over the last five to 
six years. Binstock said, “We have 
some debt historically that we 
would like to eat away at eventu­
ally.” The goal is to eliminate 
that debt in the next ten years.
While the vendors have flex­
ibility in managing their own 
booths, Carnegie Mellon does 
work with the vendors to assure 
that they maintain a set of stan­
dards. Michael Murphy, dean 
of Student Affairs, explained, 
“There are guidelines about 
cleanliness, there are guide­
lines about staff, there are 
guidelines about supply lines, 
and about parking, and about 
disposal of trash, and where 
you store your food.”
The quantity and sufficiency 
of the seating at the University 
Center is currently being ana­
lyzed by the administration. 
As Murphy observed, “Right 
now, I think where we are is 
fine because we are still set­
tling and we still have the abil­
ity to be outside. I think as the 
next couple of wleks unfold, we 
are going to have to make an 
assessment to decide whether 
in fact we need to put another 
50-100 seats both in the exist­
ing dining halls and perhaps in 
a handful of other areas.” 
Murphy noted that there is 
room for such an expansion at 
the University Center. Murphy 
Please see DINING, page 3
Vol VumVue
National rankings 
say CMU slipping
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan News Editor
For the first time in five years, 
Carnegie Mellon’s overall na­
tional ranking, as determined by 
U.S. News World Report, has 
slipped out of the top 25 accred­
ited universities in the nation. 
According to the magazine rat­
ing, CMU is 28th overall, a five- 
notch tumble from last year’s 
ranking of 23rd.
“....When you look at that, [the 
jump from 23 to 28], you can see 
that there’s been some juggling 
with the coefficients,” said Vice 
President for Enrollment Bill 
Elliott. “I’ve been involved with 
U.S. News ... they asked us to a 
conference last December where 
it was said that more public insti­
tutions needed to be included in 
the top 25.... I think you’ll find 
groups of schools that were not in 
the top 50 last year [now are.]”
“When you do well, you tend to
brag about [the rankings]. When 
you do not do so well, you tend to 
downplay them,” said Provost 
Paul Christiano. “It should be 
clear that the universities them­
selves aren’t changing so much 
every year, it’s the measurements 
that they’re being judged by that 
are changing,” he added.
Industrial Management (IM), 
GSIA’s undergraduate program, 
placed third overall in last year’s 
national undergraduate business 
schools, but slipped to fifth this 
year in a tie with several other 
similar institutions.
GSIA’s MSIA program, which 
sports a 96.7 percent placement 
rate three months after gradua­
tion, placed 14th in the rankings.
CMU’s engineering program, 
which tied for third place overall 
last year, dropped to sixth place 
in this year’s poll, where it tied 
with Cornell, Georgia Institute 
of Technology and Purdue. How- 
Please see RANKINGS, page 3
Construction on campus continues
Roberts Hall opening slated for next year
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan StaffWriter
Just when everyone thought the Uni­
versity Center marked the end of major 
construction on campus, a new building 
has sprung up between Hamerschlag 
Hall and the railroad tracks. Construc­
tion on Roberts Engineering Hall began 
in March of last year and is scheduled to 
finish by the end of this year.
Peg Hart, the project manager, said 
that most of the outer construction is 
complete, and that work has started on 
the interior of the building.
The $13.2 million project was prima­
rily funded by equal donations from 
alumnus George A Roberts and Teledyne 
Corporation. Roberts, the former CEO 
of Teledyne, received three degrees in 
materials engineering at CMU.
The building is also called the Elec­
tronics Materials Technology Building. 
It’s slated to contain 28 labs, 43 offices, 
two conference rooms, a multipurpose 
room, and an engineering library.
Officials chose the location because of 
its proximity to the clean room in 
Hamerschlag Hall and because of its 
closeness to the offices of the depart­
ments the building will house.
Jim Williams, the customer represen­
tative for the building, said, “The con­
cept is to integrate the electronics mate­
rials technology that is going on in cam­
pus.” Williams added that the building 
will be interdepartmental, containing 
labs from the ECE, Materials Engineer­
ing, and Chemical Engineering depart­
ments.
Roberts Engineering Hall has four 
floors and a basement. The basement 
contains a loading bay, the physical 
plant, and data storage systems.
The second floor will contain offices, 
labs, a glass conference room, a small 
kitchen space, and a tunnel connecting 
to floor F in Hamerschlag Hall.
The third floor will hold labs, offices, 
and two special copper-enclosed labs that 
are shielded from RF radiation.
The fourth floor has a multipurpose 
room, a bridge, and an outside terrace. 
Among other things, the circular multi­
purpose room will be available for con­
ferences and presentations. A 33-foot 
wide bridge, complete with skylight and 
glass floor, runs between the fourth floor 
of Roberts Hall and floor B in 
Hamerschlag. The fourth floor also con­
tains George A. Roberts’ personal engi­
neering library, which he has donated to
tGyCNyy MUGPRAANNNK A u A A GU A A A A Ad LN L3NALNA
Gaeriknpioae paeioenSr ae fahSkir TcUU• Ivopv or S9lSpiSg ia alSe eS9i bSck3
the University.
The first floor won’t hold anything as 
of yet. University officials split the 
project into two phases in order to save 
money. The second phase involves the 
completion of construction of the first 
floor. University officials are currently 
assessing what research they will de­
vote the unfinished floor to. No date 
has been set for the second stage of 
construction.
Roberts Hall currently has 57,000 
square feet of usable space. When com­
pleted, the second construction phase 
will add 21,000 square feet.
The skylight and numerous windows 
help the building make the most of natu­
ral lighting.
The site’s location next to the train 
tracks was taken into account. Will­
iams said that noise and vibrational 
tests were taken, and the building was
designed accordingly. All of the win­
dows are double paned to muffle the 
sound of the train. If two panes aren’t 
adequate, each window can also hold an 
additional pane.
Another problem was the steam pipes 
running under the construction site. 
The steam had to be diverted until a 
secondary steam tunnel was built un­
der the site.
The construction required that the old 
naval ship bow ornament be removed 
from Hamerschlag. The new building 
has a place to mount the ornament, but 
it is unclear if it will be the original or a 
replica, because the Navy has expressed 
interest in putting the original in a mu­
seum.
When completed, Roberts Hall will 
increase the University’s lab space and 
its capabilities in materials engineering 
research.
Forum
Tax cuts up in smoke 
• see page 4
Residence Life shifts focus to Student Life
MacleJ Matyjas/Tartan Photo Staff 
1cnU 6aIUSk• eSI gokSpiak a, DingSei Lo,S• 
vScgr nl ivS eSI DingSei Lo,S a,,opS3
By JENNY GARCIA de OSUNA
Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
Because of an increase in programs 
and services throughout the years, the 
former Residence Life office located in 
Morewood Gardens has changed its 
name to Student Life in order to better 
reflect its mission on campus.
“A ‘typical’ Residence Life office on 
most other campuses is in charge of 
staffing the residence halls,” said John 
Hannon, assistant director of Student 
Life. “Our programs got so big that the 
name [Residence Life] just wasn’t accu­
rate anymore.”
The Student Life office is in charge of 
activities such as Orientation and other 
first-year programs, and Family Week­
end. It takes charge of Greek and judi­
cial affairs and publications such as 
The Word, The Student Handbook, and 
The Residence Hall Handbook. Added 
to those responsibilities, it creates pro­
grams on scholarship and academic suc­
cess, leadership and personal develop­
ment, diversity and gender issues, and 
programs such as gay/bisexuial aware­
ness week. In addition, it oversees the 
Sexual Assault Advisors, offers com­
munity service through other organiza­
tions, and, of course, staffs the resi­
dence halls.
“CMU has established itself as a pre­
mier educational institution and now 
has a chance to develop all the other 
areas that define the college experience,” 
said Brian Greenberg, coordinator of 
J Student Life at Morewood Gardens. “Our 
office has a goal of promoting these fac- 
! ^rs and working to make CMU a won­
derful place to be.”
“Student Life” is more 
fitting because the office does not 
handle issues that affect solely cam­
pus residents, but all Carnegie Mellon 
students. Non-residential and com­
muter students can also be involved in 
the many activities originating in the 
office.
“There are non-residential students 
who want the resources available on 
campus,” said Hannon. “Kathryn 
McGraw is there to find out the best 
way to let the commuter students know 
what facilities are available and to 
help them have as much of a positive 
experience at Carnegie Mellon as pos­
sible.” [“Student Life expands focus, 
facilities to non-residents,” 9/3]
This year, there are 19 professional 
staff members and 450 student staff 
members that comprise the Student 
Life office. The professional staff mem­
bers include Associate Dean of Stu­
dent Affairs and Director of Student 
Life, Paul Fowler; two assistant direc­
tors, John Hannon and Allison Riley; 
and several coordinators of student 
life. Included in the student staff are 
the resident assistants (RAs), commu- 
. nity advisors (CAs), orientation coun­
selors (OCs), head orientation counse­
lors, desk attendants and managers, 
Greek peer advisors, special interest 
house managers, and leadership in­
terns.
“Together we work to build on the 
overall sense of community at CMU 
and foster heart-felt school spirit,” 
said Greenberg. “With the opening of 
the University Center, the arrival of 
the class of 2000, the largest first 
year class in history, and the found­
ing of such organizations as the Spirit 
of Skibo we are at the pinnacle of 
change. Great things have been hap­
pening over the last few years, and I 
think the most exciting times are yet 
to come.”
“I feel that our job is to unify the 
[students] across campus by way of 
providing opportunities for their per­
sonal and academic growth,” said 
Michelle Vollmar, senior creative 
writing major and community advi­
sor for Morewood Gardens. “Ulti­
mately, we are facilitators and teach­
ers. We need to bring students to­
gether and educate them on what 
there is on campus and on other areas 
of their lives. We need to help them 
teach each other as well and work 
together to provide a well-rounded 
educational experience.”
Inside
Calendar..................................L10Classified...................................11Comics......................................L5
Diversions.........................................................................................L7
Living....................................................................................................LI/orum.......................................4.Sports.......................................12
Features
Get to know your RA 
• see page LI
Diversions
Kids take over Phipps! 
• see page L7
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-Editor

---------------------------------------------------

/
2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996
• • •
Mexican citizens 
burn murder suspect
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 6 (AP) — 
Stunned by a nationally televised vid­
eotape of vigilantes burning a sus­
pected killer alive, scores of police 
raided a rural town and arrested seven 
people for murder.
Throughout the day Thursday, 
Mexican television stations broadcast 
a homemade videotape showing a 
badly beaten man tied to a tree. An­
other man stepped forward, doused 
him with gasoline from a plastic pop 
bottle, then stepped back and flicked a 
match.
Flames erupted, screams could be 
heard and the man writhed a bit as 
dozens of people looked on - some 
smiling and even laughing. His 
¦fcharred body finally slumped, limp 
and dead, against his bonds.
' It was the latest incident in which 
Mexican townsfolk, fed up with crime 
and suspicious of the.police, have taken 
the law into their hands.
Residents of Tatahuicapa in the 
Gulf Coast state of Veracruz on Satur­
day had accused the man, identified 
as Rodolfo Soler Hernandez, of raping 
and killing a woman as she washed 
clothes in a river.
More than 100 officers raided the
village early Thursday and hauled away 
at least 27 of the 1,300 residents. Seven 
were arrested on murder charges.
The national Televisa television net­
work reported that leaders of the vil­
lage had signed an agreement sentenc­
ing Rodolfo Soler Hernandez to death.
“There is no right of the people to 
condemn someone to death,” said 
Veracruz Attorney General Rodolfo 
Duarte Rivas, calling the act an “ille­
gal execution.”
But it was not an isolated incident.
Last Saturday, residents of 
Motozintla in southern Mexico over­
ran the town jail, seizing three men 
and burning two of them alive on lamp­
posts, Mexico’s official Notimex news 
agency reported. The men were sus­
pects in several assaults, including 
the rape of a young girl.
Residents in the Mexico state town 
of Tolman recently beat and then held 
a man suspected of a robbery and 
shooting for more than a day in their 
town square, vowing to murder him if 
any of his victims died of their wounds.
Several residents involved said they 
were enforcing their own brand of jus­
tice because they believed police and 
courts were corrupt or incompetent.
xSml cggkSrrSr Iamce saiSkr
LANCASTER, Penn., Sept. 6 (AP) 
.— Jack Kemp summed up his feelings 
about the federal tax code Thursday 
.with two little words: “It stinks.”
; Courting women voters the GOP 
¡presidential ticket sorely needs, Kemp 
¡told a group of female business execu­
tives that the code is the biggest bar­
rier to the country’s economic growth 
and must be changed.
“It stinks. It’s a shame,” he said 
during a forum held in the stuffy ware-
îouse of The Jay Group, a sales pro­
motion distribution company here.
Kemp said the government, through 
the tax code, unfairly distributes 
wealth by keeping poor people from 
Decoming rich.
This class warfare must stop,” he 
said, adding that the tax code should 
De used “to create a climate in which 
we can create wealth.”
“I am convinced that this 
race ... is of critical impor­
tance to women ...”
— Senator Jack Kemp
“I cannot think of a bigger goal for a 
country entering the 21st century 
economy than simplification of the tax 
code, not to reward the rich but to 
allow the poor to get rich,” Kemp said, 
drawing applause and a standing ova­
tion from about 100 executives and 
other guests.
Kemp also spoke about healing divi­
sions in the country, saying, “we have a 
big stake in each other’s well-being.” 
“I am convinced that this race, this
__________ year, obviously on the
edge and the eve of the 
next century is of critical 
importance to women, 
men, their families, and 
the whole nation,” he 
said.
At least one business 
executive, Virginia Bad­
ger of Rapho, Pa., agreed 
that the tax code is too complicated 
and approved of Kemp’s sales pitch.
“To find a politician who can identify 
fundamental problems that are im­
peding economic growth is very en­
couraging to me,” she said.
Earlier Thursday, Kemp spoke to 
parochial school students and attended 
local fund-raisers before flying to New 
York to raise money for Republicans.
Embassy warns Saudi Americans
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Sept. 6 (AP) 
—Americans in Saudi Arabia have been 
warned to exercise caution in the wake 
of this week’s U.S. missile attacks on 
southern Iraq.
“There have recently been inflamma­
tory public statements directed against 
the American presence on the Arabian 
Peninsula,” the U.S. Embassy said in a 
telephone hotline message.
“In light of these statements as well as 
developments in Iraq, we believe it pru­
dent to remind the American commu­
nity that all Americans throughout Saudi 
Arabia should exercise caution, keep a 
low profile, reduce travel within the coun­
try, and treat mail from unfamiliar 
sources with suspicion.”
The “inflammatory statements” were 
a reference to threats by Osama Bin 
Laden, a wealthy Saudi dissident who 
has called on his supporters to launch a 
guerrilla war against U.S. troops to drive 
them from the kingdom.
UN favors ban on nuclear weapons
UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 6 (AP) — 
Australia has rallied almost 100 nations 
to sponsor a proposed treaty banning 
nuclear test blasts, reviving hopes that 
world leaders will be able to sign the 
historic agreement this month.
The General Assembly plans Monday 
to consider the Comprehensive Nuclear 
Test Ban Treaty, which would for the 
first time ban nuclear test explosions 
worldwide.
Last month, it appeared the treaty 
was dead. After 2 1/2 years of negotia­
tions, India vetoed the proposed treaty 
in Geneva. India, which conducted its 
first and only nuclear test in 1974, ob­
jected that the draft treaty did not re­
quire countries to dismantle their 
nuclear arsenals.
Treaties routinely are sent to the Gen­
eral Assembly for rubber-stamping af­
ter winning unanimous approval in 
drafting conferences.
Australia decided to take the unusual 
step of submitting a draft resolution 
endorsing the treaty to the General As­
sembly without unanimous approval.
There is no veto at the General Assem­
bly. Supporters believe a strong vote in 
favor of the treaty will pressure India 
into abiding by the ban. India said the 
draft resolution must be approved by 
two-thirds of the UN membership be­
cause it involves a security issue.
“I don’t think any of the co-sponsors 
would be afraid of that,” Australian Am­
bassador Richard Butler said Thursday.
He said almost 100 of the 185 UN 
members already had agreed to sponsor 
the resolution. Sponsors will push for 
adoption of the resolution without any 
amendments, he said.
All five declared nuclear powers — the
United States, Russia, China, Britain, 
and France — support the proposed 
treaty.
“Next week we have an opportunity to 
ban nuclear testing forever,” said Dan 
Plesch, an arms control expert with the 
British-American Security Information 
Council. “It is vital that we take it.”
Nuclear powers have conducted some 
2,000 test blasts since the United States 
detonated the first nuclear device in 
1945. About half of those blasts were 
conducted by the United States.
Disney sued over sexual allegations
LUFKIN, Texas, Sept. 4 (AP)—Three 
Texas residents have sued the Walt 
Disney Co., alleging three recent Disney 
films aren’t as innocent as they seem.
The lawsuit was filed in an Angelina 
County state district court by Glenn 
Bickerdike of Lufkin, Laura McClary of 
Huntington, and Tracy Spikes of Hous­
ton.
They accused Disney and its subsid­
iary, Buena Vista Home Video, of allow­
ing subliminal sexual messages into the 
content and packaging of three hit ani­
mated movies: The Little Mermaid, 
Aladdin, and The Lion King.
The lawsuit alleges The Little Mer­
maid contains a scene in which a min­
ister is shown with an erection and that 
the video’s packaging contains a draw­
ing of a male sexual organ, “cleverly 
and carefully concealed as part of a 
castle.”
It also contends Aladdin contains a 
scene in which a background voice or 
whisper says, “Take off your clothes,” 
with noises, music or sound effects con­
cealing the phrase.
The lawsuit alleges The Lion King 
contains a scene in which the word “sex” 
is formed in the background with a cloud 
of dust, grass and flower petals.
The lawsuit, filed Aug. 29, seeks dam­
ages of less than $250 on behalf of any 
Texas resident who purchased one or 
more of the movies.
A spokesman for the Walt Disney Co. 
said the sexual references don’t exist.
Hurricane Fran takes huge toll
Cape Fear, N.C., Sept. 6 (AP)—Thurs­
day just before 8- pm EDT, Hurricane 
Fran was reported to have top winds of 
115 mph. Winds extended out 145 miles, 
making it about as large as Hurricane 
Hugo in 1989. Winds dropped to 100 
mph hours later, and the eye fell apart 
by midnight. Fran was downgraded to a 
tropical storm as it continued to chum
north, spawning tornadoes and pushing 
a storm surge of up to 12 feet. It moved 
into Virginia shortly before dawn, dump­
ing heavy rains and causing widespread 
flooding. At 11 am, the storm centered 
near Lynchburg, Va., with sustained 40 
mph winds and higher gusts. 
CASUALTIES
•Woman killed near Conway, S.C, 
when car lost control in water and struck 
tree.
• Man killed in Andrews, S.C., when 
car hit a fallen tree.
•Woman killed in Onslow County, 
N.C., just northeast of Wilmington, when 
a tree fell on her trailer, trapping her 
inside during the height of the storm.
•Two men killed near Holly Springs, 
N.C., when their truck hit a downed 
tree.
•Two killed in Durham County, N.C., 
a motorist and a firefighter, when a tree 
fell on a firetruck.
•Resident of Johnston County, N.C., 
killed when tree fell on house.
•A 13-year-old boy killed in Alamance 
County, N.C., when a tree fell on a house,
•Three other storm-related deaths in 
North Carolina.
UTILITIES
•In North Carolina, 1,054,000 cus­
tomers without power. In Virginia, at 
least 330,000 customers in the dark. At 
one time more than 60,000 people in 
South Carolina were without power, 
down to about 45,000 this morning. In 
Little River, S.C., 10,000 people advised 
to boil water after main break. 
EVACUATIONS
•More than 500,000 ordered to leave 
coastal areas of South Carolina and all 
or parts of eight North Carolina coun­
ties. Evacuation orders lifted in South 
Carolina’s southernmost counties by 
Thursday evening.
Pitt recruit fights for eligibility
PITTSBURGH Sept. 5 (AP) — Pitt 
recruit Chiffon Allen has won a partial 
victory in his appeal of an NCAA ruling 
that declared him ineligible this season.
Allen, of Passaic, N.J., was stripped of 
his scholarship and freshman eligibility 
after the NCAA decided he took a reme­
dial high school English course. The> 
NCAA requires four years of core En­
glish classes.
On Wednesday, the NCAA’s Academic 
Requirement Committee overturned the 
ruling and said Allen, who had a 3.0W 
grade point average at Passaic High 
School, could practice this season.
He also will go on scholarship but; 
cannot play this season and will have 
only three seasons of eligibility.
Passaic High Principal Carl Creech 
said the NCAA approved the school’s 
core curriculum, including the English 
class in question, in 1992 and 1994.
Allen said he could have enrolled in a; 
summer school course if he had known of 
the problem, but the NCAA didn’t notify 
him until it was too late.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
GUangb3 ToPv a, z*3 
GvcepS a, rvaISkr
Wednesday
1ckiUb pUangb3 ToPv 
a, z23
Thursday8ariUb pUangb3 LaI oe 
ivS 20r3
Friday
GaaUSk3 ToPv ckaneg 
68.
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Oct. 15,1946: 
Carnegie Tech’s Kiltie Band re­
appeared on campus for its first 
year of full scale activity since 
1942. The band gathered to help 
rehearse cheers at a pep rally. 
The event marked the band’s first 
pep rally in three years.
The band opened with 58 mem­
bers, but expected to expand to 
80 members after a period of com­
petitive tryouts. At the time the 
band was nationally famous for 
its fast marching step. They also 
featured a bagpipe section. All 
members of the band were clad in 
authentic Scottish kilts.
25 YEARS AGO, Sept. 23, 
1971: In an outbreak of crime, 
CMU students were the victims 
of eleven armed robberies in a 
two-week span. The crime spree 
peaked at five robberies on a Sat­
urday night, all performed with 
guns and including four burglar­
ies in the hill dorms.
Of the eleven crimes, only one 
suspect was arrested immedi­
ately. After an alert Mudge resi­
dent saw a burglar enter another 
room through the window, the 
student went to the door of the
room and sealed it shut by insert­
ing pennies between the door and 
the frame. The student then called, 
police, who entered the room and 
arrested the suspect.
As a response to the rash of 
robberies, CMU Security consid­
ered changing patrol shifts, 
scheduling Pittsburgh city police 
patrols on campus, and enforcing 
a tougher policy on the campus 
drug traffic.
TEN YEARS AGO, Sept. 16, 
1986: Bad acid hit campus. Dean 
of Student Affairs Brad Walter 
distributed a memo warning resi­
dent students of “dangerous” LSD 
that had been circulating through 
campus.
The memo was in response to 
life-threatening incidents that 
had involved CMU students. An 
example of one incident was when 
a normally “passive” male at­
tempted to break into a car and 
later kicked an escort driver. 
When restrained, he was still out 
of control, delirious, hallucinat­
ing, and repeating random 
phrases with “police” and “acid” 
in them. It was later found that 
he had ingested PCP.
The following Friday, another 
student was hallucinating, out of 
control, and behaving violently 
as he tried to break in a window 
in the Morewood Gardens lobby. 
Another student identified a third 
male as having the same reaction 
to the drug. The three students 
were not expelled, but were dealt 
with through disciplinary action 
and rehabilitation. Another stu­
dent unrelated to these incidents 
was apprehended while selling 
38 hits of acid on campus and was 
immediately expelled.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Sept. 9, 
1991: The financial resource de­
partment cracked down on finan­
cial aid fraud. Vice President of 
Enrollment Bill Elliot said the 
decision came after roughly 10 
percent of applications submit­
ted by students and family con­
tained intentionally bogus infor­
mation. The Office of Financial 
Aid started conducting random 
computer checks on about 30 per­
cent of student applicants.
The process was based on simi­
lar government checks at the na­
tional level. Among the ploys that 
fradulent filers used were students
falsely claiming independent sta­
tus, parents lying about their 
marital status, claiming family 
members in college that were not 
actually enrolled, and underesti-. 
mating bank statements.
ONE YEAR AGO, Sept. 11, 
1995: Graduate Martin Rimm 
continued to draw flak from his ; 
research paper “Marketing Por-.] 
nography on the Information! 
SuperHigway.” Critics chal-i 
lenged Rimm’s methodology in! 
gathering research.
Rimm used data gathered from > 
privately operated bulletin board j 
systems to make generalizations 
about the internet, attempted to ’ 
conceal his status as an under-; 
graduate, and misrepresented j 
himself to private BBS owners to 
gain access to confidential < 
informatation about subscribers. 
In addition, Rimm monitored stu-' 
dent, faculty, and administrative. 
Andrew accounts without permis-; 
sion to see which users had sub­
scribed or logged onto “porno­
graphic” bboards.
Compiled by 
CHRIS CANNON

---------------------------------------------------

DSS pcmlnr 
pamlniSk riakS 
,ak gSicoUr3
Buy an IBM PC 340 or 
350 desktop computer 
and an IBM Multimedia 
Kit. And you’ll get a CD 
software package that includes Windows 95, 
Lotus SmartSuite, Netscape Navigator, World 
Book Multimedia Encyclopedia and the Infopedia 
collection of essential reference software.
Buy a ThinkPad and you'll get Windows 95 and 
Lotus SmartSuite. You can also take advantage 
of special student, faculty and staff financing. 
Just call 1-800-4IBM-LOAN for Information. 
Hurry, visit your campus computer store today.
After all, no one looks ___ _
good in a checkered 2 2-2 ErfE 
apron. TEs®
The Tartan * Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996
CMU expands dining 
options on campus
i DINING, from page 1
I- and Binstock both suggested that some 
I space is not being fully utilized to 
p. capacity. They cited the Skibo coffee- 
I house, with 120-140 seats, and the 
Ij faculty and staff diningroom, which is 
|; open to students only for part of the 
day.
| Binstock said that there is more 
t flexibility in this year’s menu: “[There 
§ are] lots of options. We cover probably 
every ethnic food you can think of.” 
While the variety of different food 
| has increased, the quantity of food be- 
[ ing provided by the campus-wide din­
ing facilities has remained constant, 
f according to Murphy.
| One casualty of the new changes is 
I Piper’s Cafeteria, an a-1- carte sit-down 
cafeteria that used to be located in 
Morewood. It has been displaced by 
the new University Center vendors and 
[ campus-wide food carts. While there is 
no plan to re-open Piper’s, Binstock 
said that the grab-and-go component of 
that cafeteria now exists in the Univer­
sity Center food court. “We have repli­
cated that in several ways. There is a 
grab-and-go server in the University 
Center, second floor. There is a line 
there of coolers, beverages, pretzels, 
grab-and-go kind of items,” he said. 
Eventually, the space formally occu- 
I pied by Piper’s is slated for use by the 
Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center.
With Piper’s cafeteria no longer op­
erating, all block meals must be used 
[ at Highlander. All freshmen must pur- 
; chase a meal plan with at least eight 
I block meals per week and these blocks 
j must be used within one week, or they 
I. are lost.
, Chris Oltyan, a freshman in Indus- 
. trial Management, expressed concern 
about his meal plan. “I am a freshman 
L and I am required to have a certain 
j number of block meals and those block 
! meals have to be in the Highlander. I
don’t want to have to eat at the High­
lander,” he said.
Ira Fay, a freshman in the University 
Choice Program, felt that “in general, I 
would say that it is pretty good, but 
there are certainly some improvements 
that can be made. For example... I think 
we could let Highlander be open a little 
longer for dinner, and on Saturdays [it] 
could be open. I am sure that is a very 
common comment.”
Michael Murphy explained the 
administration’s reasoning behind the 
freshmen meal plans. “Developmen- 
tally, the desire and the dominant 
reason why we have a required meal 
plan for first year students is that we 
want students to go in, to get a meal, 
and to sit with each other, particularly 
first year students.”
Freshmen meal plans can come pack­
aged with some DineXpress as well, 
money that can be used at the Univer­
sity Center and at other vendor loca­
tions across campus.
There have been many changes made 
to Highlander from last year as well. 
Contracting is still done with 
ParkHurst, a division of Eat-N-Park, 
but new changes have been imple­
mented. Murphy suggested that in the 
past, a lack of competition resulted in 
less sensitivity to customer wants. With 
the variety of new vendor food booths, 
Murphy believes that “[Highlander is] 
at some level of healthy competition 
and I think that has really enhanced 
the quality of service [throughout]
According to Murphy, prices were 
up 3 percent this year, slightly above 
inflation, while some changes were 
made to meal plans to add more value.
A comparison between prices of ran­
domly selected food items being sold 
at the University Center food court 
with comparable dishes at the local 
restaurants yielded equivalent prices, 
to within a few cents.
National rankings list CMU 28th
“Everything about us in measure­
ments is better than last year, [such as] 
freshman retention and SAT scores. 
Rankings are nice to fill magazines, but 
the really important issue is how good 
are we in absolute terms,” Christiano 
said. “If you’re trying to choose a uni­
versity in the basis of just rankings, 
you’re crazy.”
RANKINGS, from page 1
ever, CMU’s ECE department ranked 
second in the nation, behind only MIT.
"If you look at the individual data,
CMU is continuing to improve and that’s 
what’s important - not how someone 
else juggles the data,” Elliott said.
Christiano agreed. “The real issue is 
what each of these universities is trying 
to do, trying to be for their students — 
not how a third party ranks them in a 
beauty contest,” he said.
U.S. News surveyed some 4,200 col­
lege deans and department heads re­
garding the 1,422 accredited four-year 
schools in question in the area of aca­
demic reputation. They also judged the 
institutions based on selectivity, or how 
many first-year students were accepted 
for the fall of 1995 class, as well as their 
average SAT I scores, faculty resources, 
financial resources, retention rate, and 
other similar categories.
Overall, Yale was named the best na­
tional university, with Princeton finishing 
second and Harvard rounding out the top 
three. Other universities finishing in the top 
ten were Duke, MIT, Stanford, Dartmouth- 
Brown, CIT and Northwestern.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Elliott said, “We could set up a varfo-i 
ety of rankings in a variety of ways tSjj! 
change the way the absolute values^i 
come out.... Obviously college [rankings^ 
are] a very interesting objective ... but I*' 
don’t think we should get so preoccu*'*-’ 
pied that we run the University in or="i 
der to control the rankings in U.S. News i 
and World Report.”
CMU’s ranking through the years ...
GckeSPoS 8SUUae-r y44* 
ecioaecU kceBoeP or ivS 
UaISri oi vcr hSSe ivor 3 
gSpcgS3
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editqr
CUO’s founding director retires
Ted Fenton, the founding director of 
the Center for University Outreach 
(CUO), announced that he will retire to 
devote more time to his family and to 
several special projects for Carnegie 
Mellon. Some of CUO’s innovative ini­
tiatives since its establishment in 1991 
are role model programs for inner city 
children, various tutoring projects, and 
collaborative instruction programs with 
numerous primary and secondary 
schools.
Fenton will be replaced by Linda 
Flower, professor of English/Rhetoric, 
and Joseph S. Mertz Jr., post-doctoral 
fellow in the Center for Innovation in
Learning. Flower’s part-time director­
ship roles of CUO will be to establish 
the future directions of the center and 
be its chief spokesperson. Mertz will 
be the associate director and will be 
responsible for the day-to-day man­
agement of the CUO and for the design 
and implementation of the center’s ini­
tiatives.
CMU’s United Way campaign begins
On Friday, September 13, Carnegie 
Mellon will kick off its 1996 United Way 
Campaign, with a “Day of Caring.”
Approximately 50 seventh and 
eighth grade National Honor Society 
students from Sterrett School will visit
the University.
The students will be given a tour of 
campus and will lunch in the Univer­
sity Center and attend various other 
activities.
The visit is designed to give the stu­
dents a better understanding of what 
college is like and to motivate them tp 
aspire to attend college themselves. J 
The day will begin with, a brief meet­
ing in Room 210 of the University Cen­
ter to explain this year’s United Way 
campaign, followed by lunch with the 
Sterrett students.
Any Carnegie Mellon faculty, staff, or 
students interested in being involved in 
this year’s campaign, learning more 
about the United Way, and/or eating 
lunch with the visiting students, are 
invited to attend.
Crime and Incident Report
8/30 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL,
10:56 pm. An officer saw a person 
sitting on the wall of a campus 
fraternity drinking from a large 
clay mug. The person passed the 
mugto another person, who made 
actions as if trying to hide the 
mug from view. The officer iden­
tified the people and discovered 
that they were not 'currently en­
rolled at Carnegie Mellon. The 
house was issued a CMU inter­
nal citation for outside alcohol.
While writing the citation, the 
officer endured an onslaught of 
questions from a person who iden- 
j tified himself to be the house of- 
, ficer. The house officer pleaded 
for leniency and wanted other 
fraternity houses to be written 
up for violations too. He would 
not sign the citation. The frater- 
nityfeceived its citation through 
Student Life.
8/31 UNDERAGE DRINK­
ING, 1:46 am. Officers were dis­
patched to Cathedral Mansions 
for a complaint concerning a loud 
party. Upon their arrival, the of­
ficers noticed a lot of noise and 
traffic coming from a room.
They stopped and identified an 
underage person in the hall who 
was holding what appeared to be 
a cup of beer. One officer stood by 
while the other sought out the 
resident of the loud room.
The resident stated that an at­
tempt was made to curtail under­
age drinking by stamping the 
hands of everyone under 21 years 
of age. Officers could find no 
stamp on the hand of the person 
they apprehended in the hallway. 
The resident was informed that 
the residents of the room would 
be issued citations and would be 
called into Student Life for pro­
viding alcohol to a minor.
8/31 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 3:59 pm. While on rou­
tine patrol of the fraternities, of­
ficers observed approximately six 
males throwing oranges at a fra­
ternity house. Upon their order 
to stop this action, the actors all 
fled in different directions. One 
actor was caught and issued a 
CMU citation for disorderly con­
duct. He also identified two other 
actors as fraternity brothers, but 
refused to give any other names.
9/4 MEDICAL, 3:58 am. An 
officer was dispatched to check on 
a student who had fallen out of an 
upper bunk in Morewood Gardens.
The victim awoke on the floor 
with a cut and swollen upper lip. 
The victim also complained of a 
pain in the neck. EMS placed a 
cervical collar around the victim’s 
neck and requested city medics 
for transport.
City medics arrived and took 
the victim to Presbyterian Hospi­
tal for treatment.
• Chief of Campus Police, James 
LaPaglia, reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on the Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi­
tor-in-Chief] the News Editor, 
and the staffwriter typing the 
report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
0 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report
Compiled by 
CHRIS CANNON
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If y ou know of such 
an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. 
Kraemer at 268-2111.
y*
“ Æ
of the hottest
1 800-4IBM-L0AN
ThinkPC 350student, faculty 
làmi staff financing
Hiÿibnd
X
S«fa-Tec?I5(412) 661-2610
Sera-Tec Biological* 
____________________________________5938 Baum Blvd.
IBM and ThinkPad are registered trademarks ol International Business Machines Corporation. Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. 
Other company, product or service names may be trademarks or service marks ol others. ©1996 IBM Corp. All lights reserved.
Become
A Plasma Donor
Who Needs Plasma?
Hemophiliacs, bum victims, transplant and cardiovascular 
patients are people who receive products made from the plasma 
of donors like you.
• Earn at least $150 per month
• Professional medical facility and staff for your safety
• New donors and donors inactive for 30 days 
receive $40 for two donations in the same week
BE A PLASMA DONOR...BECAUSE 
LIFE IS EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
GckeSPoS 8SUUae NeosSkroib4 DSliSmhSk y44*
Dining Services finally 
makes the grade
For those that can remember 
the cafeterias at Skibo Hall, the 
University Center’s eating facili­
ties truly are jewels on this cam­
pus, and finally on par with the 
universities we compete with.
The administration’s decision 
to change Dining Service’s role 
to that of a managerial body, and 
leave the actual preparation and 
selling of food to outside vendors 
has brought the results many 
had anticipated. By allowing 
privatization, the diversity of food 
has skyrocketed as vendors try 
to satisfy as many palettes as 
possible. With such neck and 
neck competition, the food finally 
reflects quality and accountabil­
ity, as students are no longer 
captive to just one eatery, and 
the well-managed vendors offer 
better service as well.
While the administration does 
deserve kudos for its new man­
agement style, there are several 
issues of concern with the new 
eating facilities. Most students 
probably experienced sticker 
shock when they walked in hun­
gry for the first time, considering 
that the average lunch can cost 
more than an hour’s worth of 
work-study pay. Since we can 
only expect prices to rise each 
year, there needs to be a plan to 
hold the line on future price in­
creases before students can no 
longer afford to eat there.
The queue formations at nearly 
all of the eateries are attempts to 
follow the space-efficiency meth­
ods at airports, yet they fail to 
organize large crowds, and do
not allow those who have already 
purchased their food to easily 
walk to a dining area.
More disappointing, the physi­
cal space of the dining areas is 
not large enough to accommo­
date the lunch hour crowds of a 
campus community with 10,000 
people. While the eating facili­
ties do offer soaring views of the 
pool facilities and the outside 
campus, there are few precious 
seats.
The decision to place eating 
areas adjacent to the gyms is 
intended as a means to promote 
interaction among people, but it 
is questionable whether aerobics 
classes want to be watched by 
people eating O fries, and 
whether people eating peanut- 
butter ripple ice cream want to 
smell the odure odor of the fit­
ness machine room. And, while 
the prevailing attitude of the 
building is to lounge around and 
eat anywhere, less people wTill be 
willing to picnic on the floor when 
the weather turns bad, and wet 
shoes and coats dampen the car­
pets.
It is expected that the Univer­
sity Center will go through teeth­
ing problems for several months, 
and that many of the concerns 
voiced are of the physical design 
that can not be changed. Still, 
many issues could be alleviated 
with a reorganization of plans 
and resources. In the meantime, 
everyone should bring their ap­
petites to the University Center, 
and enjoy the better eating op­
tions and facilities provided.
Admissions tours must 
embody campus life
An irate sculptor decided he 
would leave a piece of his mind 
on our campus after a pay dis­
pute. It’s a butt. There is a butt 
cleverly sculpted into one of the 
five niches that make up CFA’s 
impressive facade. It’s just a tiny 
detail that most people on cam­
pus are unaware of, but its one of 
those details that bring color to 
our lives and history and charac­
ter to our University. It happens 
to be one of those details that 
brings life to a building and hu­
manizes it.
For several years students 
working for the Office of Admis­
sions have been seen guiding pro­
spective CMU families around 
campus, showing them the hu­
man face of this University. 
These tours were immediately 
recognizable, as the guides would 
walk backwards, allowing them 
to establish a rapport with their 
charges and share their intimate 
knowledge of CMU legends, such 
as the rear-end sticking out of 
CFA. The guides may have looked 
a bit odd to onlookers —jabber­
ing away and just barely pre­
venting themselves from falling 
over — but they had an obvious 
hold over the people they were 
guiding.
All this has ended. Changes to 
the tours have reduced the num­
ber of stops and stipulated that 
the admissions assistants may 
no longer walk backwards. They 
now walk with their backs to the 
tourists, stopping only to talk at
mwm -
Ohic. y/ouL-P ByGI \ I
Letters to the Editor
Editorial insults 
able first-years
! E83
Letten to tlx Editor 
The Tartan
University Center Rm. 314
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I disagree with the 
paternalistic stance 
of the Tartan’s recent 
editorial (“First-year 
students must re­
ceive housing,” 9/3/ 
96). The author assumes that first-year 
students need the ostensible security 
provided by University sponsored hous­
ing.
This may be true of some individuals, 
but only because the University forces 
them to live on-campus, making them 
dependent.
Students who live off-campus are bet­
ter prepared for the responsibilities of 
adult life: we negotiate our own leases,
pay our own utility bills, buy and pre­
pare our own food, and manage our own 
households.
Although many of us are close enough 
to take advantage of the University’s 
special resources, we also have an incen­
tive to branch out.
There are plenty of public resources in 
the city at large.
On the social front, off-campus resi­
dents can build broader social networks 
because we live in a bigger community. 
As for cost, the University concedes that 
it is cheaper to live off-campus than on. 
According to the 1996-97Returning Stu­
dent Financial Aid Guide, the housing 
allotment is $500 lower for off-campus 
residents.
The author’s suggestion that the Uni­
versity build standard dormitories for 
first-year students is ridiculous. Such 
facilities are outmoded; students prefer
apartments or suites.
Grouping first-year students is also 
short-sighted.
Upperclass and first-year student^ 
benefit from living together — first-year 
students can learn from their upper- 
class colleagues, and upper-class stu­
dents can enjoy the enthusiasm of their 
first-year colleagues.
Instead of building new dormitories or 
trying to displace more upper-class stu­
dents, the University should give first 
year students the option of living off- 
campus.
The incoming class — the smartest in 
the University’s history — is certainly 
mature enough to make its own deci- 
sions.
R. Paul Marcelin 
Fourth-year 
Logic and Computation
Columnist tackles truths of taxation
A refreshing with an increase in rates for the programs inherent in the 
perspective was proposal.
James Stepanek
introduced to the 
public a little 
while ago. It’s one 
we haven’t heard 
in quite a while 
and yet, it is
the pre-determined stops. There 
is no longer as much interaction 
between the guides and tourists 
and there isn’t as much time to 
discuss the details, traditions, 
and legends of Carnegie Mellon, 
although the tour still lasts an 
hour.
The newer tour seems aimed at 
highlighting solely the good 
things about CMU while sweep­
ing the embarrassing — and 
sometimes more representative 
things — under the carpet. An 
indication of this is the fact that 
the only academic areas the tour 
must pass through are Posner 
Hall and CFA — the others are 
given only cursory treatment 
from a spot in the middle of the 
Mall. Posner and CFA are only a 
small part of a student’s aca­
demic life here and certainly do 
not convey a complete image of 
the overall state of academic fa­
cilities at CMU.
But what may be more impor­
tant is that the tours have been 
reduced from a way of conveying 
the life and traditions of CMU to 
merely a pedestal for its physical 
attributes. That should not be 
the purpose of a personally 
guided tour — a map and a few 
pictures in the mail would serve 
that purpose sufficiently. If the 
Office of Admissions really wants 
to give potential students and 
their families insight into life on 
this campus, they’ll listen to the 
following advice; let the guides 
walk backwards.
something that is so obvious that it should not even have to 
be said.
During his acceptance speech at the GOP convention Bob 
Dole made a critical point when talking about tax cuts: It’s 
your money.
Sounds pretty simple, eh? Almost too simple. I mean, 
everyone knows that the tax money is their money. They 
worked for it, they saved it, and they are forced to fork it over 
to the IRS when the due day appears (or simply have it taken 
out of their paycheck).
So why is this concept so novel?
Well, it’s shown in the responses by the Democrats and the 
media. They ask the question, vis-a-vis the cut, “How are we 
going to pay for it?” This question belies their lack of 
understanding of the issue.
The issue is not one of how are we going to pay for it. A tax 
cut is not something you pay for. The government is not 
giving you a damn thing, therefore they aren’t paying for it. 
It’s your money in the first place and any assumption that 
a tax cut is them giving you something is the worst piece of 
arrogance of power that one can witness. That’s like a 
mugger holding you up, taking your wallet, but leaving you 
$20 and claiming that he gave you some money. I don’t think 
so. It was your money in the first place, and the muzzle end 
of a gun did not change your legitimate claim to ownership.
Of course the government is not quite as blunt as a 
mugger. They're a good bit more subtle. They just take the 
taxes out of your pay before you even see it. People don’t 
really feel how much the government is taking from them 
because it is all done automatically. If people actually had 
to write out the check themselves, I imagine the issue of tax 
relief would be dearer to many hearts. It would be especially 
notable if you just paid once a year in a lump sum of taxes. 
Writing out a check for about 1/3 of what you earned during 
the year would be likely to get your attention.
To look upon a tax cut as something that needs to be paid 
for is to accept that the government has a more legitimate 
claim to the money than those who earned it. This is wrong. 
When you look at how a tax cut will affect budgets, you 
should look at it with the question of “How will we get by 
with lesser means?” rather than “How are we going to pay 
for this?” That is the way most Americans would approach 
their own budgetary gaps. One of the key problems with the 
issue of budgets and taxes is a set of nonsensical terminol­
ogy which was written into law back in the ‘70s.
The concept of the “Baseline Budget” was brought into 
being in that era. What it means is that a budget is drafted
This is the baseline. If, for example, AFDC spending is set to 
increase at 10% per year, and the Democrats up it to 13% one 
year, this is referred to as a 3% increase in welfare spending 
(funny how politicians do math, eh?). If the GOP takes charge 
and realize that increasing the rate of inflation is more sensible 
(-4%), this will be called a 6% cut in the program.
Mind you, the program has not lost any money, just not 
gained as fast as they thought they would. This is how the 
media and the Democrats managed to panic so many people 
with rhetoric about the GOP Congress “cutting” Medicare. 
Medicaid, and school lunches. The truth is that none of these 
programs would have taken a decrease in funding. They just 
wouldn’t have grown as fast as the projected rate.
What all of this amounts to is that any attempt to restrain the 
government spending at an ever increasing rate already has 
the d^ck stacked against it in perception: The recipients of a 
given program are going to scream and yell when they hear of 
“cuts,” even if they don’t really exist.
Heck, the proposed tax cut could probably be paid for simply 
by bringing the rate of budget expansion to the level of infla­
tion. I don’t get a raise any higher than the rate of inflation, why 
should the government?
It’s not as if they do a good job. Of course there’s also the issue 
of the tax cut needing to be “paid for” when the slew of 
initiatives by Clinton and his crew are somehow manna from 
heaven that won’t need funding. Things like expanded leave* 
the minimum wage hike, national service programs, and other 
such expansions and intrusions of government are never men­
tioned as things that need to be “paid for.” These are the real 
things that will have to be paid for. Employee time lost will not 
simply be regained through a time machine. Increased cost for 
labor is not going to be magically absorbed by the allegedly 
huge profits of businesses. A slew of “volunteers” getting ; 
federally funded wage are even more obviously a money sink. 
These are all things that will be paid for — right out of your 
pocket. Of course, Clinton has also suggested a couple of tax 
cuts of his own. These do, of course, have strings attached. They 
are all devices by which the government shapes your behavior, 
places where the government has decided that you should; 
spend money (as if they don’t already have enough control of 
your money). Tax breaks for certain activities are really more; 
about control than about tax relief, which is probably why. 
Clinton supports such a thing.
The fundamental point here is that you have to appreciate 
what is yours. The money is yours, not the government’s, not! 
your neighbor’s, and not some bozo’s in Congress or the White 
House who thinks they can make better spending decisions.' 
With almost 40% of a year’s wages being sucked up by the 
federal government, the question should not be “How can we; 
afford a tax cut?” but rather how can we not afford one.
James Stepanek is a PhD student in Materials Science and' 
Enginering. He welcomes any responsible replies to his column
GvSSrS• 5Usor omlkasS ivS rpSei a, pSUShkcioae
Douglas Howe
While all good people are in church, 
praying to the Lord above, and all intel­
ligent people are nestled, all snug in 
their beds, I sit in front of a computer, 
doing a bit of praying of my own. My 
prayer is probably a bit different than 
the ones happening in holy houses this
morning. Mine involve thanks and praise 
that I’m not as hung over as I should be 
and that I didn’t find myself in a position 
less than six hours ago, praying to the 
porcelain god, proclaiming that I’d never 
drink again. I was, as I discovered this 
morning in my bathtub, one of the lucky 
ones.
Avery dear friend of mine once told me 
that all was good and that, luckily for us, 
alcoholism could be a hobby until we 
were twenty-six. Well, Zach, though you 
couldn’t be there, I followed that phi­
losophy last night, as did practically the
entire drama department, and we all. 
thought of you fondly. That is, we would', 
have thought of you fondly, if any of us, 
could have formulated an actual orga­
nized thought after ab out 9:3 0. But, hell, 
what good is a party if you remember' 
most of it?
Last week, on the front page of this; 
publication, there was an article about; 
the new frat party “rules.” No alcohol; 
could be served by the frats, unless by a. 
third party vender. Also, they are only; 
allowed to serve wine coolers and beer, 
Please see CHEESE, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 19965
Barcodes tax tired 
summer librarian
Tom Harper
My summer didn’t entail 
leeching off my parents (that 
much) and loafing. Sure, I 
did my share of that. Most of 
it involved working in our 
own beloved E&S Library and 
volunteering at EnviroLink 
every so often. You’d think
that working in a library can be a bit boring. Weil, I’m here to tell you 
right here and now, it can.
True, there was the Operation: Barcode in J uly that saw a lot of raw 
fingertips. I know it was especially fun in our 1859-1973 section, 
where you can see yourself inhaling dust. (As much as I like to make 
idle jokes about them, the old science journals are a great place to kill 
time. It’s real boffo to see pre-Revolution Russian journals, for 
example. Now if I can only translate them.... But I can read Weimar 
Republic German a bit, and old French).
The purpose of this barcoding thing was to put barcodes on all our 
old journals so we can check them out over the computer, which we 
couldn’t do earlier since there were no barcodes on them. And now 
that we do have barcodes on them, we still can’t check them out over 
the computer. I think it’s my fault. It usually is.
Though I must say that one bright spot of this summer in the 
library was that the preekies(or pre-college students for the unini­
tiated) were nowhere near as obnoxious as the ones we had last year. 
Then, I had to put up with a few who tried to steal books on numerous 
occasion, and one of them said to my co-worker (in what has to be the 
most glaring admission that they don’t belong here):
“These books are old! It’s not, like, that you use them anymore!”
The worst part of this is that I think I’ve seen her here recently, so 
111 be on constant alert for the security gate’s alarm to go off.
Another thing about the preekies last year: They were loud. There 
is nothing to like about six arrogant, obnoxious, disrespectful preekies 
at once in what is supposed to be a relatively quiet area (Note: a quiet 
area over which I rule) just to tick you off. And, of course, these were 
the same preekies who’d try and thwart our security system (They 
were as sharp as a walnut).
For whatever’s left of my sanity's sake, I’m glad that there were 
only a few instances of obnoxious preekies this summer. Some little 
jerkliked to check out up to lOissuesofFiigfa magazine and Aviation 
Week, and we still haven’t gotten some of them back. But otherwise, 
it was a very quiet summer here.
Tom Harper, senior technical writing major, is still working at the 
library and wishes Doug, the coolest boss on the face of the Earth, good 
luck in his new job this month. This is the second of Tom’s three-part 
series on his summer "vacation.” Next week will revolve around his 
social life, which should leave that week's column at about 10 words.
Party provides life metaphor
GT55D5• ,kam lcPS ’
which also would be logged 
on a card, limiting an indi­
vidual to, like, one beer and a 
shot and a half of a wine cooler. 
Everyone there has to be on a 
guest list not exceeding 300 
people. There will be no prac­
ticing of organized religion al­
lowed while the party is in 
progress. The only music al­
lowed to be played will be by 
either Mel Torme or Liza 
Minelli. No one may engage in 
any sexual activity unless su­
pervised by a faculty member 
of the Chemical Engineering 
Department. If someone vom­
its, for any reason, they will be 
immediately escorted off the 
campus, indefinitely, with no 
chance of returning as a stu­
dent. And the kicker is that 
each brother at the frat has to 
wear a button that says, “I’m a 
loser because I OK’d these 
rules.”
All I can say is: What a 
goddamn pity. Where’s your 
spirit? Where’s your sense of 
adventure? Where are your 
balls? One brother was quoted 
as saying, “We have to learn to 
control ourselves.” What, you 
can’t control yourself on your 
own?
You have to have the fear of 
Big Brother watching over you, 
to keep you within reasonable 
bounds? How sad. I believe part 
of the definition of a party is 
that there are no rules, save 
ones out of common courtesy 
and respect. Apparently, the 
only place now to go to have a 
real party is off-campus. So we 
did.
Every year, it is a tradition 
within the drama department 
that the senior class has a semi- 
formal “wine and cheese” 
thingy for the freshmen. It 
gives everyone an opportunity
to meet each other, i.e. scope 
out the fresh meat. That tradi­
tion continued Saturday night, 
and then some. Everybody was 
nice and polite and good hu­
mored. And then the wine ran 
out. So at about nine, the “in­
formal” party was moved to me 
and my roommates’ house, 
where the keg was. Too many 
people, too much loud music, 
too much alcohol, and that’s all 
before the sophomores and jun­
iors showed up.
I can’t say I recall a lot. What 
I do recall, I can’t really write 
about in this paper, out of re­
spect for certain individuals, 
and out of the mere fact that I 
shouldn’t be writing stuff like 
that down. My mommy 
wouldn’t be too happy if I used 
such language. But I will de­
scribe to all what my house 
looked like the morning after, 
hoping to fill in missing pieces 
of the total madness.
Obviously, a bomb exploded 
and left about four million cups 
and beer bottles. That’s be­
cause the keg ran out after 
about forty-five minutes and 
there were numerous beer 
runs, post kick-off. In those 
cups and bottles were enough 
cigarette butts to make the 
Tobacco Industry very happy.
The headshot of our voice 
and speech teacher was placed 
on a Charlie’s Angels poster (I 
think on Kate Jackson’s face). 
Both stereo speakers were 
blown out. My clock and lamp 
won’t work because at some 
point a fuse blew. There’s puke 
in our bathtub. There are a 
pair of random stockings on 
the floor. And then there’s the 
cheese.
Where, what, and why this 
happened I haven’t a clue, but 
there are cheese wrappers ev­
erywhere.
In our fridge, we had a 72 
slice pack of American cheese 
(we like to economize). I say 
had, because it’s all gone. All of 
it. Now, I was roaming all night, 
and spent a bunch of time out­
side. Evidently I missed the 
cheese incident. I did in fact 
make a mistake, there was one 
piece of cheese left, and it was 
on the wall, next to the Velvet 
Elvis, which is kind of appro­
priate, so we’re probably gonna 
leave it there. Oh yeah, and 
then there was the lone strag­
gler body that couldn’t make it 
home and passed out, ironically 
in my roommate’s bed, causing 
him to pass out on the living 
room floor, covering himself in 
cigarette ashes, since we didn’t 
have a ashtray. Overall, I’d say 
it was a success. I certainly 
hope the party made the fresh­
men feel welcome and not too 
bloody scared, because if they 
weren’t ready for that, they ain’t 
ready for the drama program.
Earlier today, as I waited for 
the library to open, I saw some­
one who was at the party. She 
asked me how everything 
turned out. I said, “Damned if I 
know.” She laughed and said, 
“That proves it was a good party, 
because that was everyone’s 
response.”
So frat council, chill out a 
little. Let your hair down, turn 
off your computers, attempt to 
meet some girls, and have a 
little fun. If you can’t do it in 
college, where else are you go­
ing to?
Douglas Howe is a senior 
drama major.
He might smell a little rank 
for the next few days, but 
Marlboro scars do eventually 
wash off.
He welcomes any responsible 
replies to his column.
Anti-tobacco campaign violates rights of smokers
Jon Orris
I have become convinced that any poli- 
i tician who starts a crusade on the theme 
i of “save the children” should be immedi- 
l ately impeached. President Clinton’s re- 
: cent campaign against tobacco is an excel- 
! lent example that clearly illustrates his 
socialist mentality.
Late in August, Clinton gave the FDA 
• the power to regulate tobacco as an addic- 
' tive drug, granting broad power to that 
. already bloated and unconstitutional mon- 
; strosity. In addition, he outlined several 
; proposals to help curb teen smoking: 
Require proof of age for cigarette sales 
i to anyone who looks to be under 27. Ban 
| cigarette vending machines in public 
places. Eliminate corporate sponsorship 
of sporting events. Eliminate cigarette 
logos on caps, T-shirts, and such. Limit all 
billboards to black and white text. Limit 
; all magazine advertisements to black and 
j white text. In addition, ads will be banned 
j in magazines likely to be read by a large 
number of teenagers.
This list of proposals is completely in-
sane, and amounts to nothing more than 
a list of violations of the rights of the 
states and of individuals.
To begin with, states already prohibit 
cigarette sales to minors and already man­
date identification. There is no need for 
the federal government to become involved 
here, nor any constitutional authority per­
mitting them to do so. As to the banning of 
ads, corporate sponsorships, and the re­
strictions on the placement of ads, I have 
to wonder, does the First Amendment 
really say, “Congress shall make no law...” 
or am I just imagining things every time 
I read it? The proposals to severely re­
strict tobacco advertising are a gross in­
fringement on the rights of the tobacco 
companies to free speech.
This, unfortunately, is likely to be up­
held by the courts. The Supreme Court 
has long held, contrary to everything 
America stands for, that commercial 
speech is somehow less protected than 
political speech, and that government may 
regulate it in the name of the “public 
good.”
Already we have seen gross infringe­
ments on the liberties of Americans con­
cerning tobacco, such as regulations in 
some states forbidding cigarette smoking 
in restaurants and other places of busi-
ness, \v)iatever the owners of these places 
may want. Now, in the name of the “chil­
dren,” the government will make things 
worse.
Worse, these actions are only the first 
steps on the road to making tobacco ille­
gal. The anti-tobacco lobby clearly wants 
this, and little communists like David 
Kessler, head of the FDA, will be more 
than happy to give it to them to increase 
their power. This is how it started with the 
other drugs, and it will only lead to the 
same place. If you think that the current 
drug war is bad, with all the violence, 
crime, and gross violations of rights by the 
government, just wait until tobacco is 
banned.
Yes, tobacco is an addictive drug that 
has dangerous long-term consequences. 
So what? What happened to personal re­
sponsibility?
If you decide to use some substance that 
is addictive and harmful, that’s your choice, 
as are the consequences.
“But what about the cost to society?” 
whine the advocates of forced mercy. Yes, 
there is a cost in medical care to those who 
suffer tobacco induced illnesses. Why, 
though, should this be a cost to “society”? 
The cost to society is something we have 
inflicted upon ourselves through statist
regulations on insurance companies and 
monstrous programs like Medicare and 
Medicaid. Eliminate these things, and 
the “cost to society” will be eliminated as 
well.
“But what about their lives?” cry the 
anti-tobacco crowd. What about them? 
They aren’t your lives. If you want to try 
to persuade people to change their lifestyle, 
go ahead. You have no right however, to 
use force to make people change their 
behavior. Nor should we force people to 
pay for the consequences of other’s behav­
ior. But no, we can’t do that. That would 
be mean and uncompassionate. Using- 
guns to force your opinion is so much more 
moral.
It is truly disgusting to see these advo­
cates of compassion and mercy at work. 
They have no compunction about sacrific­
ing whomever they please to their ends. 
Do they have any compassion for their 
victims? These regulations on tobacco, 
along with their precursors, must be elimi­
nated. Otherwise, we will have taken yet 
another large and dangerous step towards 
totalitarianism.
Jon Orris is a fifth-year CS major. He 
welcomes any responsible responses to his 
column.
¦
If music be the food of love, 
go to Starlake. But if you’re 
hungry, go to the first and 
second floors of the Univer­
sity Center. We asked: What 
has been the best meal 
you’ve eaten on-campus?
Dan Feny 
Freshman 
CIT
“I like the salads in High­
lander.”
Sheila Flanagan
Sophomore
OTE
“The pasta with marinara 
sauce.”
LaDale Widmeyer
tneoak
SDS
“I don’t eat here. It’s not in my 
budget.”
W, V / Mm 
v "w*-* Mmi
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Chris Rickert
Junior
Undecided
“The pretzels from CK’s. 
They’re salty fresh.”
THE TARTAN
GckeSPoS 8SooaeHr DingSei FSIrlclSk 
DoepS y40*
5g3VoeVGvoS,33 xSeeSiv t3 xkcSmSk 
8cecPoeP 5g3 EegkSI 8pYSkmaii
OnroeSrr 8cecPSk333333333Emoi xck
FSIr 5goiak333333OSpBb E3GaIrSk
6aknm 5goiak333333333333333tave OoPPr
Dlakir 5goiak333333333331cnU OaaivS
6ScinkSr 5goiak3333333333333DvckmoUc
7SeBcicrnhhce
YosSkroaer 5goiak33333333335ec xvce
GcUSegck 5goiak333333xSeeSiv 6UcPP
YarroSk YrPe3 5gr3Lcnkc 7ckkcpvU
3333333333333333333333331cnUoec OSkpWberBo
YarroSk Loi3 5g333333xSsoe 8SSvce
Eki GaV5goiak33333wchkoSe Dbmaer
Eki GaV5goiak333333333333333333Domaec La
1vaia 5goiak33333tcrae DoSPSegak,
1kagnpioae 8Pk35UoWchSiv FSnmce 
EgsSkioroeP 8cecPSk Gvoeice Dvcv
DbriSmr 8cecPSk33333333333yV1oeP Lo
Galb 8cecPSk333333doeiSk 8crae
Erri3 FSIr 5goiak3333 Gvkor Gceeae 
Erri3 6ScinkSr 5goiak3 333tnUSS dvoiS 
Erri3 YosSkroaer 5g3333 tcb 8UaUUc
Erri3 Dlakir 5g3333333YcIe 1clnPc
Erri3 6aknm 5goiak tSeeb wckpoc 
gS ?rnec
YckBkaam 8cecPSk3333 tom DebgSk 
1SkraeeSU 8Pk3333333335kop DcUWmce
GaeikohnioeP 5goiakr 
8ciivSI DaUoika
DSeoak Dic,, 
woU EUiSkasUiW• tcrae EegkcpBo• 
8cii OcUU
Dic,,IkoiSkr 
DiSsS Gvckeanho• EeeSmckoS 
YSsoeS• fbce Yaeasce• YcsS 
5Umce• jam TcklSk• Egcm xUoscer• 
dUcgomok LchSoBasrBb• EUS9 LSIUe• 
jkSsak 8SbSkaIoiW• YoWWb 8nklvb• 
jkcpb ?gSUU• tae ?kkor• Dngvok 
fSggb• Yce farSehSkP• faecB 
DoePvcU• tcmSr DiSlceSB• tSrropc 
DikSUoiW• EegkSI dceP• Dnrce 
dcirae• OkcgUSb (ommSkmce
Eki
fbce fvacgr
Gamopr
EBokcTcrSPcIc3TokamU TcrSPcIc•
1vaia
Yocec OckiaUaiic• 5UoWchSiv 
xcechS• wnricsa DPceWSkUc•
YckBkaam 
)arS, Ookehaom• Emb Gkoriama• 
5Uocr 6cUUae• Dpaii TSrr• TSUSe 
TnceP• GckUc DSkSeb
1kagnpioae 
DiSsSe Gvco
Galb
Lako OaISr• 8omo GvSeP• Asak 
GUckBS• TSUSec 8pwcvcPce• 7op|
iak ?kiSPc• GcivSkoeS DSegSkUoeP
OnroeSrr 
1cikopoc YowonrSllo• DiSlvSe Trn
tneoak Dic,, 
Gvkor EgnBcoior• 8cii Gnppcka• 
doUUocm TaUiW• doUU ArSevank• xSe|
eSiv FcmBneP• Yocec fnivSk,akg• 
EUUorae DpngoSkS• Emcegc DlSck• 
doUU daag
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University community. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion 
of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the Uni­
versity community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include 
the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright © 1996 by The 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board re­
serves the right to withhold from publica­
tion any copy it deems unfit for publica­
tion.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: 412/268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Car­
negie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #:
0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated PressAp

---------------------------------------------------

Industrial Management Dean’s List, Spring 1996
Seniors
Ramin AbtahiSangita Jinwala*K. Larkin Rogers*
Normarina AhmadSean Keane*George Schmidt III
Scott Barek*Matthew KeatingWee Lin Sim*
Kristine Bonaimo*Jacqueline KingMatthew Simon
Kumar Doshi*Jan KlingenlbergPhillip Swire
Mark FrondosoKathy Liu*Ananda Thananart*
Eduardo Garza*Holly MillerDarren Wan*
Michael Goettsche*Bobby Mukherjee*Porter Welch*
Jason Grieder*Khalil MuriSteven Woyicki*
Hayden Hartland*Allen Posacki*Jian Yu*
Venny HausjahDanielle Proctor*
Juniors
Lawrence Adams*Dana Iacobucci*Vijay Nayak*
Michelle Allen*Geraldine Gauthier*Noritoshi Sano
Richard Bodnar*Kenneth Kraemer*Robert Schultz
Leslie Brown*Sharada Krishnappa*Sameer Sethi*
Samuel Chon*Khanh Lan Lam*Chintan Shah*
Haili Damar*Christine LinCraig Snethen*
Russel DickerAlan Linton*Courtney Spence
Timothy Faulkner*Larissa Longnecker*Brian Vasquez
Dominick Frollini*Katrina Lutz*Patricia Yang*
Christine HalberstadtKelly McCulloughCalvin Yao
Robert Hamady*Melissa Meyers*Lei Zhang*
Jeffrey Hugo*
Sophomores
Raphael Aguirre*Lawrence Cohen*Briank Rhee
John BaeJane Fink*John Stephan
Justin BassKavin HetrakulZakarij Thomas*
Daniel BruceMeredith Knezek*Kimberley Ümeda
Joshua BryantElias Mablekos*Victor Villones*
Hsiang ChenKarim MuriAndrew Yuen*
Kwokchi Cheung*Jennifer Ng*Sofia Zuberi*
Jimmy Chiang
Freshmen
Kathryn Allen*Lin Dai*Fern Lee
Inigo AmoribietaKyle Dupre*Wing Lo
Dashiell Boyer-Olson*Frank EnosElisa Quiong
Chris Butsko*Jason Funkfe*Amit Sheth
Sarah Campen*Allen Go*Achira Taulananda*
Ashok Chachra*Michael HowardShin-Yi Tseng
Jungwon Chang*Gustavo Ioschpe*Chin-Chiang Wang*
Wing-Chun Cho*James Lampe*Latoya Williams*
* High Honors 7/96
HUGH KERR BOOKS
OUT OF PRINT SPECIALISTS WE HAVE THE BOOK! 
Email: hughkerr@interIoc.com
EARN UP TO $1350 PER SEMESTER 
FOR 3 HOURS/WEEK
Male grad, undergrad and professional students 
of all nationalities needed for nationwide sperm bank. 
For information, call 687-0358 To schedule, call 687-0335
Presentation
Career opportunities at J.P. Morgan
J.P. Morgan provides sophisticated financial services 
to corporations, governments, financial institutions, 
private firms, nonprofit institutions, and wealthy 
individuals around the world.
Please plan to attend our information presentation for 
Carnegie Mellon students interested in
Audit Plus 
Consulting Group 
Investment Management 
Private Client Group
Wednesday, September 25 
5:30- 7:30 pm
Madge Lounge. Mudge Hall 
All majors welcome
JPMorgan
Internet http:/Av\vw.jpniorçïun.eom
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer
Regrettably 
all sections 
are full this 
semester for
1
m919,Is2
'Discounts off AT&T basic rates Refers to ATKT honte or ATCT Calling Card accounts. Subject to billing availability Certain exclusions apply 'Subject to credit approval 'Valid for 1 yt Must sign ujnniwHiduseserviceaileasuKaSZE^
<

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996
Are Steelers dead in ’96?
>RO FOOTBALL, from page 9
ill the worse is that two other line- 
)ackers also suffered knee injuries 
ind will be out for about a month.
I So, what’s the Steelers’ progno­
sis? They need to get their wide 
Receivers healthy and stabilize the 
Quarterback situation before their 
Offense can come close to approach­
ing what it did last year. The de­
fense faces the tough task of playing 
'.without its emotional leader and 
top pass rusher. They also have the 
¦luxury of playing in a somewhat 
|veak division, but the teams in the 
SkFC Central are generally stronger 
Bn offense than defense, and the 
feteelers don’t appear to be the team 
jo bet on right now in high-scoring 
¡shoot-outs.
ames of the Week: (Week 3):
an Diego at Green Bay: Two very
ood defenses match up. If it is a close
ame, the Chargers have the edge 
Decause of John Carney, but they will 
have to stop the Brett Favre scoring 
machine first.
Detroit at Philadelphia: The Lions 
try to get their revenge after being 
jlown out last year in the playoffs at 
the Vet.
: The game is on turf and the weather 
should not be cold, so the Eagles will 
have their hands full trying to stop 
Barry Sanders.
Buffalo at Pittsburgh (Monday 
night): This will be a big game for the 
Steelers as they head into their bye 
week. They have owned the Bills the 
last few seasons, and a win would 
give them much momentum. A loss, 
however, could signify the resurgence 
of Jim Kelly’s bunch, who have very 
high hopes for this year.
Ronak Singhal is a senior ECE 
major. Look for his column to appear 
bi-weekly opposite Steve Charnoubi’s 
“4th and 26. ”
Pennant races provide baseball’s big picture
The Hot Corner
by Matt Cuccaro
Prior to 1994, September usually 
meant that seven or eight teams had 
serious chances of playing post-season 
baseball. But thanks to unnecessary 
expansion and the inception of the Wild 
Card, over half of Major League 
Baseball’s 28 teams now remain in the 
playoff picture. This week, I examine 
each divisional race and decide which 
teams are going to the playoffs and which 
teams are going home (sorry, but there 
will be no mention of any cute players).
American League Eastern Division 
With a 12-game lead over the Orioles 
in July, it seemed the Yankees would 
coast to the division championship. But 
a 13-17 record in August, combined 
with spectacular surges by the O’s and 
the Red Sox, has cut the lead dramati­
cally. Through Thursday, Baltimore 
trailed by only four games and Boston 
just six and a half. However, the Yanks 
improved significantly with David “no­
hit” Cone’s successful return from the 
disabled list, and they will (unfortu­
nately) win the East. What about 
Toronto? Well, they’re just glad to be in 
the same division as Detroit.
American League Central Division 
The Indians are still the best team 
in the American League, but this 
season’s Tribe have shown they can be 
beaten. Cleveland will easily win their 
division (unless Albert “Don’t call me 
Joey or I’ll bust your face” Belle gets 
hit by a bus or something) but will 
have difficulty come playoff-time. Chi­
cago has the best pitching staff in the
Central, but can only seriously con­
tend for the Wild Card. The same goes 
for Minnesota, while Milwaukee and 
Kansas City try to remain respectable.
American League Western Division
Incredibly, the Rangers have actually 
increased their lead over Junior’s Mari­
ners in the past month (from two games 
on August 6 to six games on September 
6) instead of practicing their annual 
summertime collapse. Considerable 
credit is due to MVP candidate Juan 
Gonzalez, but it has been Texas’ start­
ing pitching, which leads the majors in 
wins, that has kept the Rangers atop the 
West. Seattle, like Chicago, has a better 
shot at the Wild Card spot than the 
division title, while Oakland and Cali­
fornia are both trying to finish last (I 
give the edge to the Angels).
American League Wild Card Race
Five teams have a legitimate chance 
to win this race, which is currently led 
by the Chisox. Baltimore is one game 
back, followed by the Mariners 
at three behind; the Red Sox 
(thanks to a 22-9 
August) are 
three and a 
half games 
out, while 
the Twins 
trail by five 
and a half. Sorry 
Tiger fans;' Detroit 
became the first team 
in the majors to be 
mathematically 
eliminated from the 
playoffs. My pick: the 
Chicago White Sox.
Trivia: The At­
lanta Braves have a 
chance to repeat as 
World Series champions 
in 1996. Name the last 
National League team to 
win two consecutive 
world championships.
National League Eastern Division
Led by John “29” Smoltz, Denny “I’m 
the happiest guy in the world” Neagle, 
and a host of others, Atlanta will be 
challenged by no one, as they cruise to 
both division and league champion­
ships.
The Expos’ only hope is to win the 
Wild Card race, while the Marlins and 
Mets can only play the role of spoilers. 
All I can say about the Phillies is man 
they suck.
National League Central Division
St. Louis recently won six in a row to 
take a game and a half lead over Hous­
ton, but, provided the ’Stros can re­
bound from their recent four-game 
slide, they will win the division crown. 
The Reds and Cubs, hovering around 
.500, remain in contention, but inju­
ries to Reggie Sanders and Sammy 
Sosa have seriously diminished their 
playoff dreams.
And our Pitts­
burgh “We’re
rebuilding for the year 2047” Pirates 
are firmly planted in last place.
National League Western Division
The Padres cling to a one-game lead 
over Los Angeles, and this race will 
probably come down to the last week­
end of the season (with the Dodgers 
ultimately winning). The Rockies are 
close at six and a half games behind, 
but their 24-47 road record haunts 
them as they play most of their re­
maining games away from Coors. As 
for San Francisco, they’re stuck in the 
cellar, spanking their Giant monkeys.
National League Wild Card Race
Montreal, with the same record as 
San Diego, currently leads the Dodg­
ers by only a game in this congested 
Wild Card race.
The Astros are four games behind 
the Expos, but only one game behind 
the Cardinals. Several other teams 
(such as Cincinnati, Colorado, and 
Chicago) think they can win, but 
they can’t. It’s a tough call, but the 
Expos should pull away with the 
title. Only one thing is for sure: the
Phillies suck.
Trivia answer: The 
Cincinnati Reds were 
the last NL team to win two 
straight World Series. The Big Red 
Machine beat the Red Sox in 1975 
and the Yankees in 1976.
Matt Cuccaro is still a junior 
civil and environmental engineer­
ing student. He really, really likes 
cheese.
Surviving in college is tough enough, right? That’s 
why we’ve designed a package to make things 
easier Choose AIScT and look at all you can get:
AT&T Irue Reach® Savings
Save 25% on every kind of U.S. call 
on your AT&T phone bill when you 
spend just $25 a month.1
Luckily, you can still 
sign up for all this 
great stuff from AIM1.
ATM True Rewards "
Get savings at Sam Goody/Musicland, 
TCBY “Treats” and BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO 
with the Member Benefit Card.
AESCT Universal MasterCard®
A credit, cash and calling card that 
brings you discounts on USAir. And 
" / no annual fee-ever.2
AT&T WorldNet' Service
Get 5 free hours of Internet access 
every month just for having AT&T 
long distance.3
To sign up, look for us on campus or call
1800 654-0471
AT&T
Your True Choice
http ://¦www. att. com/college
>>

---------------------------------------------------

LGATEROV OZ CKYG.WBWES G.M JVBS 
NUVW.a leen dEG.rS 1WSB
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences and the 
College of Fine Arts congratulate our students for their outstanding academic 
performances during the Spring 1996 semester.
•.—Beco
Rebecca Albrecht 
Alexandra Brennan 
Jason Charney 
Andrea Harley 
Rachael Keeler 
Michal Paley 
Pauletta Pan
mA—Beco
Devan Anthony 
Melissa Bower 
D. Renee Hairston 
Jessica Render 
Lisa Kicielinski 
Lisa Marinacci 
Peter Moore 
Robyn Nace 
Jill Sincaglia
•ePleaec.o
Dana Heath 
Elizabeth Irvine
s Dc.ola.—
Sheila Flanagan 
Anne Garibaldi 
5. Marueen McGranaghan
Maria Muti
t Dorian Peters
Jessica Phillips-Silver
Got a _ah yet? 
Wish you had one?
(The Business Opportunities 
Conference is September 2zth)
Bring 45 resumes to the BOC table in front of 
Doherty Hall September 9-13. Make sure they are 
in a manila envelope marked with your name and 
class.
ofh thehsudf sn, ahchlyàmhni
»
Theirs.Ours.
With a running investment of over one-quarter of a billion dollars in research and development, no wonder Oracle is known for breakthrough technology.
If you’re eager to work with this decade’s top graduates on the world’s fastest moving products, join us. Our software solutions are changing the way human 
knowledge is gathered, stored, retrieved, and utilized. With record sales of $4.2 billion and over 40% growth in the last year alone, we’re now hiring over 100 of 
the best of the Class of ‘97. If you have a BS/MS in CS, Math-CS, Information Networking, Technical Writing, Computer Engineering, or Software Engineering, 
you could become an Oracle Software Developer, Consultant or Product Manager and work on any number of advanced technologies and products, including:
Digital Library-',Alexandria" 
Media Objects 
Enterprise Applications 
Massively Parallel Products 
Linguistics Based Products
Internet Products
Object Oriented Development Tools 
Interactive Multimedia 
Mobile Computing 
Data Warehousing & Mining
Object Oriented Databases 
Distributed Computing & Networking 
Data Security Architecture 
Vertical Applications
Learn more about Oracle at the TOC Fair on September 26tb. We'll be interviewing on campus October 8th and 9th. 
Sign up at the Career Center and pick up your copy of "Projects at Oracle” today. E-mailed resumes strongly encouraged.
CD RACILY
Enabling the Information Age
Oracle Corporation, 501) Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: jobsiP’us.oracle.com TAX: -1 15-506-1073 
For additional information, visit our web site at: http://www.oracle.com. Equal talent will always ¿»et equal opportunity.
i

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 19969
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director — Mike 
/jastroianni x8-2214; Assistant.Intra- 
nural Director — Mike Gryzwinski x8- 
>938; IM Secretary — Michelle Matta 
¡(8-2053; IM President — Matt Will­
iams 621-8987; IM Women's Presi­
dent — Pia Soriano 681-1031
IMPORTANT DATES
Monday— Touch football begins. 
Tuesday— Football and co-rec volley­
ball schedules available.
Wednesday—Co-rec volleyball begins, 
ftnnll schedules available. 
ffiursday— Cross Country and chess 
festers due. IM Tennis begins. 
September 17— IM board meeting at 
£.1:45 am in the gym conference room. 
September 19—Water polo rosters due.
TOUCH FOOTBALL
1 Complete touch football schedules 
nil be available in the Intramural office 
gym room 101) at noon on Tuesday, 
jams that play on Monday and Tues- 
ay were notified by phone, but are 
icouraged to pick up schedules in the 
jjtramural Office. Tuesday's games are 
¡so listed in a box at right. A total of 
So teams have signed up for intramural 
Such football, with 31 minors teams, 
six women’s teams, six intermediate 
learns, and seven majors teams. Good 
lock to all teams.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Schedules for co-rec volleyball will be 
»ailable in the intramural office Tues- 
(ay at noon. Games will begin Wednes- 
ly in the University Center. All co-rec 
illeyball games will be played in the 
iw University Center gymnasium. A 
total of 34 teams have signed up to 
lay. All teams are reminded that ques- 
ns about the league should still be 
irected to the Intramural office.
TENNIS
| An intramural record number of 52 
¦ams have signed up for the 1996 
Intramural tennis season. Games will 
pe played on Monday through Thursday 
éVenings from 7 to 10:30 pm at the 
ctempus courts. All participants must 
#ear tennis shoes. Sandals and bare 
feet are not permitted. If.you do not 
Rave tennis shoes you cannot play. 
Games will start on Thursday, and all 
té am captains should pick up a sched­
ule in the IM office after noon on 
fednesday. Any questions should be 
irected to the IM office at x8-2214.
OFFICIALS
Anyone interested in becoming an 
itramural official should contact Mike 
¡Wastroianni in the IM' office at x8- 
•2214. We are currently lookingfortouch 
football and soccer officials. Pay per 
game is $5.25.
Submitted by 
PATRICIA BRUNO
Cowboys and Steelers dying for wins
From the Goal Line
by Ronak Singhal
As I said last week, the Dol­
phins would not have a run­
ning game, the Steelers would 
have an awesome defense, and 
the Packers would win the Su­
per Bowl. Hey, one for three 
isn’t all that bad, is it? The first 
week of the NFL season is al­
ways sure to produce a few sur­
prises, but who could have 
imagined some of this year’s? 
The leading rusher in the AFC 
after one week is a guy named 
Karim Abdul-J abbar; although 
he did also go to UCLA, this 
guy is no basketball center. In­
stead, he leads a pack of tal­
ented rookies that Jimmy 
Johnson is counting on to ease 
Dan Marino’s burden.
The biggest surprise of all from 
the first week of play was the 
performance of last year’s Super 
Bowl participants. Both the Dal­
las Cowboys and the Pittsburgh 
Steelers failed to answer many 
questions after this first game, 
and instead left people won­
dering if both teams will have 
an opportunity to return to the 
title game.
The Dallas Cowboys went 
through a series of difficulties 
this off-season, which really has 
been quite the norm since Jerry 
Jones boughtthe team. However, 
this year was particularly bad, 
highlighted, of course, by the 
much-publicized drug case of 
Michael Irvin. The Cowboys lost 
several key free agents, includ­
ing Super Bowl MVP Larry 
Brown, while the team also suf­
fered many key injuries during 
the pre-season, including inju­
ries to both of their tight ends. 
So, when the Cowboys took the 
field last Monday night, no one 
was quite sure what to expect.
What they got was a fullback 
playing tight end, a cornerback 
playing wide receiver, and a 
bobsledder playing fullback. 
None of this made for a very good 
situation. But as bad as things 
seemed, they would only get 
worse for Dallas, as on a late 
drive, Emmitt Smith landed on 
his neck on a fake run and lay 
motionless on the field for sev­
eral minutes. It now appears that 
Smith will be OK, but what about 
his team?
The Cowboys are lucky. First 
of all, they play in one of the 
weaker divisions in football. 
Philadelphia has a decent-look- 
ing team that 
should 
be able 
to chal- 
1 e n g e 
Dallas, 
espe­
cially if
Rodney Peete performs like he 
did against Washington, but af­
ter that, the other three teams 
in the NFC East really should 
not be a factor for the division 
title. So, if the Cowboys can get 
healthy while waiting for 
Michael Irvin, it appears they 
will have a shot at repeating as 
division champions, and once 
the playoffs begin, just about 
anything can happen.
A much less optimistic forecast 
has been coming out of Pittsburgh 
following the Steelers’ debacle in 
Jacksonville. Everyone knew that 
quarterback would be a problem 
after Neil O’Donnell’s departure, 
but the inept performances of 
Jim Miller,
Korde.ll 
Stewart, 
and Mike 
T omczak 
might have
fans yearning for the days of 
Mark Malone and Cliff Stoudt. 
And as a side note, Miller’s per­
formance is yet another indica­
tion that the quarterback rating 
may be the most useless statistic 
in all of sports. After the first 
week, Miller was ranked ahead 
of four AFC quarterbacks, in­
cluding John Elway, Jeff Blake, 
and Drew Bledsoe.
As badly as the quarterbacks 
played, I wonder why the coaches 
are not taking some of the blame 
for an ill-conceived game plan. 
The Steelers had an inexperi­
enced quarterback playing be­
hind an experienced offensive 
line and two very capable run­
ning backs in Eric Pegram and 
Jerome Bettis. Pegram ended the 
game averaging over six yards a 
carry, while Bettis averaged over 
four yards a carry. Yet the 
Steelers abandoned their run­
ning game, instead of em­
bracing it. It was 
mentioned this 
week that it was 
just two years ago 
when the Steelers 
ran for over 250 
yards in one 
game and ran 15
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-Editor
straight running plays in an­
other. Obviously such an offense 
is not as spectacular as last 
year’s, which featured the aerial 
antics of five wide receivers and 
a Slash, but the Steelers don’t 
really need to be glitzy to be 
adored in this football-crazed 
town, plus they currently don’t 
have the wide receivers to throw 
the ball to. They can’t run the 
ball on every play, but it seems to 
me that they would have been 
better off letting the run set up 
the pass, instead of vice versa.
Now, Bill Cowher has an­
nounced that Tomczak is the 
starter for the time being and 
that there probably will not be 
any more flip-flopping of quar­
terbacks for the next few games. 
Tomczak has experience, which 
should steady the offense some­
what, but with Yancey Thigpen 
still hurting and Ernie Mills out 
for another month because of the 
torn ACL he suffered in the Su­
per Bowl, Tomczak will have his 
work cut out for him.
Pittsburgh was still considered 
a contender in the AFC, even 
with the uncertainty at quarter­
back, because of their bedrock 
defense led by superstars Rod 
Woodson and Greg Lloyd. Well, 
those two players now have some­
thing in common more than just 
being great defensive players; 
they have now both suffered se­
vere knee injuries at the begin­
ning of the season.
Last year, Woodson was able 
to come back for the Super Bowl, 
which was made possible by his 
remarkable healing ability and 
the Steelers’ ability to replace 
him in the lineup. Greg Lloyd 
won’t be in the Super Bowl this 
year, and his teammates might 
have a tough time getting there, 
too. What makes Lloyd’s injury 
Please see PRO FOOTBALL, page 7
ATTENTION GOLFERS: Carnegie Mellon Head Golf Coach 
Rich Erdelyi invites all interested students to try out for the 
Tartans’ 1996-97 varsity golf team. Freshmen are particularly 
encouraged to try out for this year's squad. If interested 
contact Coach Erdelyi by phone at x8-2219.
Tuesday Touch Football Intramural Schedule
LeagueReid TimeTeams
MinorsC6:30A2 - 69er's vs. A5 - Latin GSIA
MinorsD6:30D3 - TX Silver vs. D4 - Bl-Bombers
MinorsC7:30A3 - Slg Tau vs. A4 - Kick-A-Ball
MinorsD7:30El-SlgTau Soup vs. E7-PKTTiajuana Brass
MajorsA8:302 - NP Completions vs. 7 - Heinz
Int.B8:302 - Damn Kids vs. 5 - GSIA
MajorsA9:303 - Gang Greene vs. 6 - Heinz Pickles
WomenB9:301 - Tartan Hoopers vs. 6 - Kappa Krushers
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN A HOTEL ROOM
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES 
INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, CABLE MOVIES, 
FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND RESERVED PARKING 
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYS1DE 2 BLOCKS 
FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 12 DELICIOUS 
RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY LEASES
5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://tig.com/Pittsburgh/
Are you
UNDERGRADUATE
MOCK TRIAL TEAM
. . . thinking about law school, 
and law as a career, or
... a veteran debater interested in 
similar activity at college-level, or
. . . interested in honing your 
public speaking skills?
Then consider joining Carnegie Mellon’s Undergradu­
ate Mock Trial Team.
The Undergraduate Mock Trial Team is open to all CMU 
undergraduates (not just members of the Prelaw Soci­
ety). CMU will host two intercollegiate undergraduate 
mock trial tournaments this year (Saturday, November 
16,1996; and [tentatively] Friday-Saturday, February 21- 
22, 1997).
Organizational and informational meeting: Wednesday, 
September 11, 4:30-5:30 PM, Porter Hall 225b. If
interested but unable to attend this meeting, or if you have 
questions, send e-mail to jdOx@andrew.cmu.edu, or 
tango @ andrew.cmu.edu.
Sponsored by the CMU Prelaw Student Society 
and 
University Prelaw Advising Program

---------------------------------------------------

Goodbye Good-piy Trmr?! j
Apply for a Discover Card, 
get approved and nab a free CD,
Dam to Poe, The Tragically Hip, Goodness, King's X, Rust. Extra Fancy, Dawbox, Frentef and Therm adore. Apply for the , Discover"Card, get approved, s and it’s yours FREE, Better y still, for every CD shipped out, were donating 22$ to promote J music education through the NAR.AS Foundation!To apply call;y-8SS-DISC0VER ext 4C8.
D\SC«VE*
*0ffer available only to new Discover Car 
who call by 9/30/96 to apply. Offer good whi 
last. Must be 18 to apply. Discover Card w 
a maximum of $25,000 to the NARAS Found
IT PAYS TO
NrS oi IvSkS ban 
S ivS F?7ND* roPe3

---------------------------------------------------

FRIENDS DON’T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.THE TARTAN 
268-2111
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. Good 
domestic fares, AVH and EURA1L 
passes. 9-5 M-F, 10-Noon Saturday. 
4608 Winthrop Street, off South Craig. 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........S12.00/wk
51-100 words......S15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon Univerislty 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or check 
before first run date
•On-campus departments and organiza­
tions may pay by journal transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996
USA, Canada vie for World Cup of Hockey
From the Point
by Jason Andracki
The Canada Cup is dead. Long live the 
orld Cup. This year marks the debut of 
3 World Cup of Hockey, replacing the 
Cup, which was last played in 
This international tournament pits 
countries’ premier players against 
. It is also serving as a preview 
1998 Winter Olympics in Japan, 
which the NHL will “close” to 
players to represent their coun­
in the Games.
The World Cup is a mixture of the 
NHL All-Star game and the Olympics. 
Some teams, like USA and Canada, 
contain all NHL players. Other teams, 
like Germany and Slovakia, have a 
combination of NHL stars and ama­
teur stars from their countries.
NHLers versus NHLers is the only 
real similarity between the World Cup 
and the All-Star game. The All-Star game 
is totally finesse hockey with little hit­
ting and few penalties. In the World 
Cup, everybody is playing to win at all 
costs. I’ve seen some of the best open-ice 
hitting ever in this tournament, and the 
gloves have even been dropped. When 
was the last time that even happened in 
the Stanley Cup playoffs?
There are four teams left in the tour­
nament. A single-elimination game 
will decide which two teams will play 
in the best-of-three series to decide 
the champion.
Russia: Of all the teams remaining, 
they are the least likely to win the cham­
pionship, especially with Pavel Bure 
injured again. After going 1-2, they sur­
prised the favorite, Finland, by shutting 
them out with five goals. Russia lost to 
Team USA 5-2 in round one, and round 
three will have the same result.
Sweden: The undefeated winner of 
the European pool and the underdog of 
the tournament must go through Team 
Canada to make the championship. 
Canada will be playing for pride, since 
the last time these two met Sweden’s 
Peter Forsberg scored in an overtime 
shoot-out to win the gold medal at the 
1994 Lillehammer Olympics. This may 
be the most exciting matchup of the 
tournament, with no clear favorite.
Canada: Canada’s only loss thus far 
has been to Team USA. They have more
riding on this tournament than any other 
team. When Germany was eliminated, 
it was simply a loss. With Canada it is a 
matter of pride — they don’t like to be 
bested in the game they call their own.
Canada has the most all-around ex­
perience in the tournament. If you 
look at the stat sheet, you may think 
it’s 1986 rather than 1996. Former 
Edmonton Oilers Wayne Gretzky, 
Mark Messier, and Paul Coffey lead in 
scoring, with former Oilers coach Glen 
Sather at the helm. The talent and 
leadership of these players will deter­
mine the outcome of the matchup 
against Sweden. The superstar in 
waiting, Eric Lindros, has accumu­
lated one assist in four games.
USA: Team USA has the most depth 
of any team in the tournament; 19 play­
ers have accumulated points. Young and 
old are contributing to the scoresheet,
with Brett Hull at the top followed by; 
Keith Tkachuk, who is finally showing 
why he makes as much as Messier. Pat’ 
LaFontaine has only played one gain's 
due to a groin injury, but in that one£ 
game he scored a short-handed goal and, 
had two assists. If LaFontaine and Hull; 
can play on the same line versus Russia« 
USA will ease into the final round. j
USA versus Russia always brings to 
mind that miraculous Lake Placid win.- 
in 1980. The roles are switched this;; 
year, with USA being highly favored; 
over Russia.
[Ed. Note — This column was coml 
pleted before game three.]
Jason Andracki is a senior profes* 
sional writing major. If Gretzky play 
a solid game against Sweden, Jason•; 
may regain respect for the newest Neu£ 
York Ranger.
ollege football players fight for Heisman Trophy glory
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
IA football team coached by John 
jleisman once scored 222 points 
in a single game. For this show of 
sportsmanship, and various in­
novations in the game of football
(such as the forward pass and, 
some would say, the snap from 
center) we honor his name by 
awarding a trophy to the nation’s 
best college football player.
Well, maybe that’s a stretch — 
the “best college football player” 
part. In its storied history, the 
Heisman has never been won by 
a defensive player. Nor has it 
been won by an offensive line­
man. In fact, recently it has sim­
ply been awarded to the nation’s 
most-hyped player.
Consider that three running 
backs rushed for more yards than
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-Editor
last year’s winner, Eddie George. 
Add to that the fact that none of 
the six winners before him are 
currently starting in the NFL, 
and you see my point. Different 
degrees of popularity and perfor­
mance makes this year’s Heisman 
race simple to sum up in two 
words: wide open. Without fur­
ther cynicism concerning the 
Downtown Athletic Club’s selec­
tions, here’s my short list.
Last year’s runner-up, Florida 
quarterback Danny Wuerffel, 
would seem to be the likely choice. 
But coach and former Heisman 
winner Steve Spurrier has 
been displeased with his 
performance. Look for 
Wuerffel’s admirers to run 
for cover when the Gators 
get shelled in an early meet­
ing with Tennessee.
Junior Troy Davis be­
came the first running back 
to rush for 2,000 yards and 
not win the Heisman. De­
spite Iowa State’s presence 
in the rough-and-tumble 
Big 12, he probably won’t 
get much respect this year 
either. Also, look for oppos­
ing defenses to concentrate 
on shutting down the Cy­
clones’ running game.
BYU QB Steve Sarkisian 
has already thrown for 10 
touchdowns and 795 yards 
in two games. The Cougars 
are off to a hot start, look­
ing impressive in an upset 
over Texas A&M and hold- 
ingform against Arkansas. 
Sarkisian put up huge num­
bers last season but got 
little national attention. If 
he can keep them winning, 
heads will start to turn his 
way, despite his playing in 
the WAC.
Running back Curtis 
Enis is already off to a mon­
ster start, rumblingfor 241 
yards and three touch­
downs in Penn State’s victory over 
USC. He should continue to rack 
up the yards until the Nittany 
Lions reach the core of their Big 
Ten schedule. The Penn State/ 
Ohio State game October 9 will 
either serve as his coming-out 
party or silence his supporters 
until next season. The Buckeyes 
returned all 11 defensive start­
ers from last season, but they’re 
the same group that gave up over 
300 yards to Michigan’s Tim 
Biakabatuka.
Despite the awesome numbers 
these players have already put 
up, my favorite is the most popu­
lar choice: Tennessee quarterback 
Peyton Manning. Manning is ... 
well, good. He might not be the 
best college player, but he’s an 
extremely likable choice. But the 
Volunteer QB’s greatest draw­
back may be the region he plays
in. Tennessee doesn’t play a game 
north of the Mason-Dixon line or 
west of the Mississippi River, and 
sportswriters from all over the 
nation vote on the Heisman.
Other dark horse contenders:
Ohio State lineman Orlando 
Pace: He won both the Outland 
and Lombardi awards last year. 
He didn’t allow a sack, and he 
plays both fullback and defensive 
end in short yardage situations.
Nebraska RB Ahman Green: 
He rushed for over 1,000 yards as 
a freshman. The Cornhuskers 
usually have a stable of running 
backs to run the ball, but he’s 
clearly above the rest this year. If 
Nebraska’s still undefeated in late 
December, barring injury, bench­
ing, or the arrest-bug that’s going 
around Nebraska, Green will 
have 2,000 yards and a Heisman.
Anyone from Notre Dame:<; 
Every Notre Dame game will be- 
on television this year, including;-’ 
a game against Navy in Dublin,;:; 
Ireland. If someone gets hot, he;; 
could make enough voters’ eyes;; 
blind to other performers. %
Long shots: Florida State’s" 
Warrick Dunn, Syracuse’s* 
Donovan McNabb, North-;, 
western’s Darnell Autry.
Game of the week: Colorado; 
at Michigan. Saturday, 3:30 pm.;, 
Two years ago, Kordell Stewart, 
beat the Wolverines with a lastf^ 
second Hail Mary to Michael' 
Westbrook. The Buffaloes will put; 
them away sooner this time. -
Chris Cannon is a junior com--- 
puter science major and Assist 
tant News Editor for The Tartari.;- 
He has decided to decline his: 
Heisman nomination this seasoii.\
children and adults. Must be available 
Sunday mornings and early afternoons. 
October to May, 1996 employment. If 
interested, call Young Judaea Regional 
Office: 421-4877 or 521-4877.
Earn $500 or more weekly stuffing 
envelopes at home. Send long SASE to: 
Country Living Shoppers, Dept. C22, 
PO Box 1779, Denham Springs, LA 
70727.
Spring Break '97-sell trips, earn cash, $ 
go free. STS is hiring campus reps/ 
organizers to promote trips to Cancún, 
Jamaica, and Florida. Call 800-648-4849 
for information on joining America's #1 
student tour operator.
Another way to earn extra money. It is 
easy...become a plasma donor. Donors 
inactive for one month or new donors 
receive S40 for your 1st two donations 
in the same week with this ad. Offer 
expires 10/31/96. For more informa­
tion, call Sera-Tec Biologists at 661- 
2610.
One bedroom, furnished apartment, 
Clean. Oakland Ave. Call 766-2069.
JOBS
*9un8 Judaea Zionist Youth Move- 
Oient- Leaders needed for Sunday 
Meetings throughout the Western PA 
region. Lead meetings for 3rd-7th 
graders. Must be licensed driver, 
®njoy working with children, feel 
<ihfortable in front of groups of
DRUNK DRIVING DOESN’T JUST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS
Nicholas Esposito, killed Oct. 13, 1989 at 8:25 pm. 
Next time your friend insists on driving drunk, do whatever it takes to stop him. 
Because if he kills innocent people, how will you live with yourself?
|OR SALE
Spring Break '97. Do it with Sun 
jiplash Tours! With 10 years experi­
ence, reliability, and the highest 
rewards in the market, SST has 
be|:ome the #1 to the hottest destina­
tions! Free trip on 13 sales! Highest 
commissions! Call for free info packet: 
^splash 1-800-426-7710. 
VKWw.sunsplashtour.com
TRAVELJ

---------------------------------------------------

7aUnmS 4y• _rrnS 2jvS jckice• GckeSPoS 8SUUae NeosSkroib• 1oiirhnkPv• 1SeerbUsceoc4 DSliSmhSk y44{
Tennis gets first wins
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon women’s 
tennis team started the season 
last week, losing at home, but 
taking to the road this past week­
end to win two straight matches.
This past weekend, the team 
crushed both Frostburg State 
University and Juniata College. 
The Tartan team walked 
through both matches, winning 
back-to-back 9-0 
sets. These victories 
came after a tough 
loss, as the team 
hosted Grove City 
College last Thurs­
day in its first meet 
of the season. The 
Grove City team 
handily defeated the 
Tartans, leaving 
CMU on the down 
side of a 6-3 score.
Sophomore Keri 
Mills said the loss 
to Grove City really 
helped the team 
pull it together this 
weekend. “We were 
a little more focused 
after our loss,” she 
said, “Also, the 
teams weren’t very 
good.” She said that 
the team wasn’t re­
ally ready against 
Grove City, but the 
loss gave them a 
kind of wake-up 
call. The team went 
into the match ex­
pecting to defeat 
Grove City, based on
last year’s match where the Tar­
tans won 6-3.
“We were terrible,” sopho­
more Jillian Watkins said of 
the Grove City match. She said 
that many players needed a lot 
more match experience, and 
that the team was not mentally 
prepared for the match.
The weekend’s victories were 
a good confidence booster for 
the team, Watkins said. “It was 
a good win for us,” she said.
Yosef Blmbolm/Tartan Photographer 
E,iSk c Uarr ia wkasS Goib Ucri ISSB• ivS IamSeHr iSeeor 
iScm gS,SciSg iIa allaeSeir3
“Beating those two teams gives 
us more focus and direction.” 
The team will need that confi­
dence, as they prepare for one of 
their biggest matches of the sea­
son — a match at rival Roches­
ter University on September 22. 
Watkins said the team is more 
confident for the Rochester 
match, after the weekend wins.
The team is looking strong this 
season, having lost only two se­
niors from last season’s 11-1 
squad. Mills is the 
team’s number one 
player and cur­
rently holds the 
best singles record 
in CMU history.
In the number 
two spot this 
year is freshman 
Christina Sun. 
Watkins said, 
“[Sun’s] strong in 
both singles and 
doubles play — 
she’s going to win 
consistently.” 
Watkins rounds 
out the top three 
for the team.
The team’s next 
match is today, 
when they travel 
to Westminster 
College. Also, both 
teams will host the 
Carnegie Mellon 
Tennis Classic this 
weekend.
The men’s team 
will have their first 
match this Thurs­
day at Allegheny 
College.
Soccer 
up
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
“It’s tough to play good soccer 
in the rain,” said junior for­
ward Jason Buelow about their 
1-0 loss to Mt. Union College 
this past Saturday.
Poor weather conditions and 
controversial officiating made 
life difficult for the men’s soc­
cer team this past weekend.
Men’s soccer coach Nick 
Gaudioso said, “It was a tough 
game.” The teams were very 
even according to the stat sheet
— both teams had about 12 
shots on goal, each goalkeeper 
jiad three saves, and CMU had 
beven corner kicks while Mt. 
Union had nine.
-Ti-The one goal was scored 
early in the game, as the ball 
skipped across the water on 
tlie field, past the Tartan de­
fenders and right to a Mt. 
Union forward who buried the 
ball in the net. Buelow said,
drops match- t.
“They got a pretty lucky goal 
off the inline.”
CMU put together a number 
of scoring opportunities, but 
failed to capitalize on them. 
The Tartans actually had two 
goals called back by the refer­
ees. Both Buelow and fresh­
man back David Huryk put the 
ball in the net, but one was 
called back on a handball, and 
one was called back because of 
a foul on the goalkeeper. 
Gaudioso disputes the goal­
keeper foul, as it is very hard to 
intentionally foul a goal­
keeper while heading the ball 
into the goal.
Overall, Gaudioso said that 
the team played fairly well. 
“We tried to play possession- 
style soccer,” he said. He also 
said that “[Mt. Union’s] hard- 
running style worked better” 
in the wet, rainy conditions. 
Gaudioso added that the team 
went forward in the last 10- 
15 minutes of the game be-
cause, “we don’t think it 
makes a difference if you lose 
by one point or two points.” 
But this late surge wasn’t 
enough to bring the game 
home for the Tartans, as time 
expired without a CMU goal.
Buelow said, “We couldn’t 
produce upfield and put the 
ball in the net.”
The team has a hard week 
ahead of them, with Washing­
ton & Jefferson on Wednes­
day and Case Western Reserve 
University, the team’s first 
UAA match-up on Saturday.
Gaudioso expects both teams 
to be fairly tough match-ups. 
Case will be a particularly in­
teresting match, as Case re­
turns all of their starters from 
last year’s team and is in posi­
tion for their best season ever.
Buelow was more optimis­
tic, saying that the match will 
be tough, but “[Case] usu­
ally doesn’t give us too many 
problems.”
F&M defeats Tartand
jvS jckice gS,SerosS UoeS loUSr ae c 6kceBUoe R 8ckrvcUU kneeSk3
Jason M. Mayland/THE COLLEGE REPORTER
By DAWN PAPUGA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Another season started on Sat­
urday for the Tartan football 
team, as they headed off against 
Franklin & Marshall, who they 
beat last season 28-7. This year 
the game’s score was the same, 
but the roles were reversed. 
Franklin & Marshall defeated the 
Tartans by 21 points, all in the 
first half.
In the first series of the first 
quarter, the Franklin & Marshall 
offense drove the Tartans 69 
yards down the field in seven 
plays. Their efforts were re­
warded when one of their full­
backs rushed five yards for the 
first points of the game, to lead 
the Tartans 7—0. The Tartans 
answered Franklin & Marshall’s 
touchdown with a 13-play drive 
for 52 yards that also ended in a 
touchdown by senior quarterback 
Dave Stolysik on a quarterback 
sneak, tying the game 7—7 by the 
end of the first quarter.
Unfortunately for the Tartans, 
the second quarter of the game 
didn’t go quite as well. Franklin
& Marshall had three more suc­
cessful scoring drives in the sec­
ond quarter. The first of the trio 
was an 80-yard drive for a touch­
down that took 14 plays, giving 
them a seven point lead. The sec­
ond scoring series was only five 
plays in total and 56-yards. About 
a minute and a half, four plays 
and a quick 65-yards later, the 
Franklin & Marshall team had 
moved from a tie game to leading 
the Tartans by 21 points. Senior 
captain Ray Ardire said, “In the 
first half we didn’t execute our 
assignments, especially in the 
second quarter.”
The second half of the game, 
the Tartan’s defense held the 
Franklin & Marshall team score­
less. “We played better in the 
second half, and hope to continue 
that in the game against Case,” 
Ardire said.
Senior inside linebacker Jarrod 
McAdoo had an interception in 
the third quarter, and senior de­
fensive back Albie Fletcher had 
one in the fourth. Despite these 
turnovers, the Tartans were un­
able to convert them to points. 
Senior tight end T. J. Sharpe said, 
“In the first half the team just 
came out flat, and Franklin &
Marshall came out fired up anc 
ready to play... In the second hal 
however, the defense created op 
portunities, and the offense jus: 
didn’t capitalize on those.”
The Tartan running gamt 
proved to be ineffective agains: 
the Franklin & Marshall defense 
The Tartans rushing statistic 
showed 28 attempts for only 6; 
yards. The passing game wasn; 
much better with 14 completion: 
of 39 attempts.
The game total of turnovers 
was four — three interceptions 
two by CMU, and one fumble alsc 
by CMU. Despite this, head coacl 
Richard Lackner said, “The turn 
overs weren’t a huge part of thi 
loss,” but that Franklin { 
Marshall “played with great en 
thusiasm and intensity.” The 
Tartans came up with 154 tota 
yards for the entire game ti 
Franklin & Marshall’s 216 tota 
yards. “We didn’t play up to eAn 
potential. This team has a lot r 
potential, we just didn’t execute! 
said Sharpe.
The Tartans go head-to-hea| 
with Case Western Reserve Uni 
versity next week in Cleveland 
for their first UAA game."
Volleyball splits tourney
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
This past weekend brought tournament play at 
Oberlin College for the Carnegie Mellon women’s 
volleyball team. The Tartans started out their 
varsity season strong, making it to the second day 
of play and finishing 2-2. The Oberlin tournament 
showcased 16 Division III colleges.The players 
started out Friday morning playing Oberlin, and 
losing in four sets. “We had a slow start in the 
morning,” said senior middle setter Stephanie 
Postal, ‘Tt was very early and we had come from the 
farthest away. Scheduling was an issue.”
The Tartans bounced back, taking their next 
game against University of Pittsburgh-Bradford 
in three straight sets. “The team’s defense was 
strong and won our games for us,” said Brittany 
Rutter, a junior outside hitter.
g cross country teams poised for excellent seasons
They continued their drive by defeating Clarl 
State in four sets to qualify for a berth in th 
winners bracket. The Tartan squad was ranked 
fifth out of the 16 teams and advanced to the secom 
day of competition.
However, the brakes were applied Saturdaj 
morning, as Carnegie Mellon faced powerhousi 
Dennison University. A valiant struggle saw CMD 
lose in three straight sets to the Dennison women 
Nonetheless, senior captain Sarah Pacocha saw the 
experience as a “fun tourney; we had a good time.
Both Postal and Pacocha commented that thi 
freshmen were an integral part of the team’s play, 
Pacocha said, “The freshmen were a strong force oi 
the team. Sarah Putaro, right side, and A-u1"’ 
McNeil, outside hitter, played their positions 
Steph Szobota did well hitting in the middle for 
The Tartans next play at the Gettysburg 
Tournment on September 13.
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
0 s
b(“As far as I’m concerned we have a 
»Very, very young team,” women’s cross 
tountry coach Dario Donatelli said in 
regard to this year’s team. Donatelli 
said that the team has no returning 
jimiors or seniors, but “freshmen are 
going to make a definite impact.” 
:iAlthough the team has no upper­
classmen returning, it does contain 
riophomores that should contribute. 
cfMaureen McGranaghan is definitely 
liumber one [on the team], and Marga- 
xet Powers should be in the top three,” 
the coach said. Powers and McGran­
aghan are both sophomores.
-[-•On the men’s side, coach Gary
. Meckley said, “We have a very, very 
large team.” This year’s men’s cross 
country team currently has 42 partici­
pants. Like the women’s team, Meckley 
•said, “We will go with youth this year.”
This year’s team has 18 freshmen men 
running.
Among those expected to help the 
men out this year are sophomore Kristo 
Kriechbaum, sophomore Josh Donner, 
and junior Brian Ingram. Meckley also 
said that seniors Seb Ziesler, Scott 
Moore, and Ron Polcawich could pos­
sibly contribute to the team.
Freshmen who have caught 
Meckley’s eye include Brian Meyer, 
Eric Egenolf, Ryle Goodrich, James 
Gorham, and Kenn Oldham. “If those 
runners get any consistency, we should 
have a good team,” Meckley said.
This past weekend, the teams lined 
up on Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park 
for their first meet of the season. 
The women’s team ran against 
LaRoche, and crushed them 15-50.
Only six members of the team par­
ticipated, .and the Tartans took the 
first six places. Donatelli only ran the 
top six women because he felt that the
rest of the team was not ready, but 
figures to have at least 10 runners at 
the next race.
The men’s team was disappointed, 
as their opponent, University of Pitt- 
Johnstown, never showed up. The men 
simply ran a three-mile time trial and 
went home. Meckley said that he was 
pleased with how the freshman ran, 
but that he wanted to run a real meet 
to see how well the freshmen would 
do. However, Meckley said that he 
feels that the team is stronger than 
last year.
The cross country team’s next meet 
is this Saturday, as they travel to 
participate in the California of Penn­
sylvania Invitational. Donatelli said 
that the meet is going to be larger 
than originally expected, and that it 
will provide a chance to see how the 
team matches up against 15 other 
schools, including a number of Divi­
sion II schools.
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographe^ 
jvS IamSeHr pkarr paneikb iScm USclr ,kam ivS rickioeP UoeS oe DcinkgcbHr mSSi3

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 2 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 9 September 1996
Do you know your RA?
j jj jjy j K8raianraiaraiannra
li y im
By Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-Editor
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Editor
Who is your RA? Or more importantly, 
what is an RA? For most incoming fresh­
men, a Resident Assistant is the first 
person you interact with once you get to 
campus; they’re the ones who tell you 
how dining services works and where 
the bookstore is, and even what to look 
for in these first few intrepid weeks of
son takes on their job is an individual 
process.” During an intensive train­
ing period, RAs learn how to correlate 
their role as an educator and their role 
as a student. Most RAs agree that 
there is no set of strict guidelines for 
everyone to follow.
One general rule of thumb, though, 
is that the RA/resident relationship is 
not a one-way street. An RA wants to 
create a sense of community that al- 
college life. But beyond the scope of lows each resident to contribute and
Orientation, most students aren’t sure 
of how to make use of their RA as a 
resource, they aren’t sure of the actual 
role of an RA.
Trying to balance their job most ef­
fectively, the RA’s generally break up 
i their role into five parts: a crisis re-
• sponder, programmer and peer con- 
i suitor, administrator, community role 
model, and resident.
“Balancing this job is a hands-on
affect others in the area. There needs 
to be an outlet for older students to 
interact with freshmen and for first 
year students to share experiences 
with one another.
The biggest outlet through which 
this is achieved is floor programming, 
but it can be tricky trying to coordi­
nate activities fit for everyone. “A good 
RA gets to know his or her residents 
and what kinds of things will be best
Greenberg finds that a good RA has 
to be all things to all people, but that 
doesn’t mean that he or she has to take 
on the same role with all residents in 
an area. “We by no means expect them
an RA: balancing the needs of first 
year and upperclass students.
“Older students tend to have a repu­
tation that they don’t need someone to 
help them, they don’t need a sense of
We by no means expect [resident assistants] to 
be superhumans. ”
— Brian GreenbergCoordinator of Student Life
for Morewood Gardens
“It’s not about what you do — it's about who 
you are. ”
— Renee Cardelli, senior english major 
and RA in Marybelle apartments
learning type thing,” said Peter 
Barbalias, coordinator of Student Life 
for suiteside housing. “How each per-
suited for them,” said Brian Greenberg, 
coordinator of Student Life for 
Morewood Gardens.
to be superhuman,” he said.
“It’s not about what you do, but more 
about who you are,” said Renee 
Cardelli, a senior English major and 
RA in Marybelle apartments.
Many students see their RA as a disci­
plinary representative, but to what ex­
tent is often unclear. According to
_____ Barbalias, the main reason that
RAs take on this responsibility 
is to give the RA a way to protect 
the rights of everyone in an area; 
the right to study or to sleep and 
to be respected by others. “(The 
role as an administrator] is not 
to create a method of policing, 
but to establish a community 
standard,” he said.
Freshmen tend to be more open to 
this standard than upperclassmen 
which leads to another challenge for
community, but most RA’s don’t ac­
cept that,” said Barbalias.
Barbalias has found in his experi­
ences as an RA that all students want 
a sense of unity between the people 
they live with, but the differences lie 
in how they interact with those people. 
“It’s a matter of finding programming 
that appeals to everyone,” he said.
As students in different areas tend 
to have different needs, RAs try to 
keep in mind what type of students 
live in their area and why they chose 
to live in that building.
Residents of campus apartments 
aren’t looking for a social atmosphere 
or a place to keep their doors open, but 
generally want a quieter, more pri­
vate space, while Donner residents 
are most comfortable with the typical 
dorm room environment. “[RA's in off-
campus apartments] have to link off- 
campus residents to the campus,” said 
Cardelli. “You want to maintain Ji 
sense of privacy for the residents but 
also try to create a campus environ­
ment.”
Cardelli tries to remain acces­
sible for her residents without 
smothering them.
“I was really apprehensive 
about this area at the beginning
— I thought the residents woufd 
be unapproachable, but that’s not
-------- the case at all. When I come home,
doors are open and people af-fe 
socializing.” V
“Resnik has a reputation of being a 
very private dorm,” said Barbalias} “and 
RAs that live there are very committed 
to breaking that barrier.” Added to that 
issue is a physical constraint that limits 
interaction in suiteside dorms.
Housing built from 1986 onwards 
have hydraulic doors that don’t prop 
open very easily, which hinders the 
visibility of residents.
Greenberg understands that each 
dorm has specific needs, but believes 
that RA’s have universal goals, one of 
which is to act as a sounding board for 
his or her residents. i:
“It’s a herculean thing, to be an 
RA,” he said. “Everything [the Stu­
dent Life Office] tries to do as an op­
eration is made possible because rtf 
our RAs.”

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996RA of the Year sets a standard
By ANDREW WANG
Tà'rtan Staffwriter
“It was a lot of work [being a 
résident assistant], but it was 
W#rth it. Basically, I had a few 
simple goals. I wanted to get 
pebple together... I tried to give 
peôple someone to talk to. I tried 
t<5,r'create an atmosphere of re­
spect. Sometimes it worked, and 
sôî’netimes it didn’t. I tried to 
walk the line between not being 
ar6und too much and not being 
arSund too little. I fell off a 
cotiple of times, but I think I did 
O'K.”
Obviously, senior Electrical 
and Computer Engineering ma- 
jol1, Michael Batz managed to 
w-atlk that line pretty well dur­
ing his term as a resident assis­
tant for the Student Life Office. 
B&tz, who was an RA at Shirley 
Apartments, was chosen as the
RA of the Year, a special recog­
nition given to an RA who has 
distinguished himself or herself 
in service to the CMU commu­
nity. Batz found the RA experi­
ence to be both rewarding and 
challenging.
He said that the highlights of 
his RA programs were a pool 
tournament, a trip to the 
Omnimax Theater at the 
Carnegie Science Center, a win­
ter holiday feast, some barbe­
cues, and the First Annual 
Shirley Day, which was a 28 
hour program including two 
movie marathons, four meals, 
bowling in the hall, board games, 
Atari games, aerobics, pool 
games, and ping pong.
Batz was surprised when he 
discovered that he had been rec­
ognized as the RA of the Year 
because it came at a time when 
he had been questioninghis suc­
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
8oBS OciW Icr ivS fE a, ivS bSck Ucri )Sck3
cess as an RA. “I am honored 
that so many people thought so 
highly of me, and I am glad to 
have a reward for all of my hard 
work. But I still have trouble 
wearing something like this on 
my sleeve, because it seems to 
insinuate that I did a perfect 
job, and that’s something that I 
certainly can’t accept,” said 
Batz.
Besides being an RA, he is 
also the chair of Activity Board 
Tech, the coordinator of the En­
gineering and Public Policy Stu­
dent Advisory Committee (SAC), 
and is a sexual assault advisor.
He is a double major in elec­
trical and computer engineer­
ing and engineering and public 
policy. Next year, he will re­
main here as part of the fifth 
year masters program.
“I am a double major because 
... I am extremely interested in
how the resulting technologies 
can impact society.
Technology playjs dramatic I 
roles in our lives, and yet we I 
spend so little time really think­
ing about how it affects us indi­
vidually and as a society,” said 
Batz.
“Personally, I am constantly | 
trying to make myself a better i 
person. I see too much pain an'd | 
sadness in the world around mi, 
and I see no other way of mak-! 
ing it a better place unless I 
start with myself,” said Batz.
The RA of the Year award was 
chosen by a group of community 1 
advisors and and coodinators of 
Student Life from nominations 
made by the Student Life .Com­
munity.
Nominees must show thaft 
they have fullfilled all the roles I 
of an to his or her fullest above I 
and beyond the duty of an RA.
Women deserve proper medical information
Cracking The Myth
by Martha Sullivan
" ' Last year, a friend of mine 
started taking birth control 
pills. She talked to her doctor 
and read all of the available 
literature. She was
led to believe that -------------
she knew all there 
was to know about 
the decision she was 
«making. About a 
year later, she went 
for her annual gy­
necological exam
‘and discovered that ------------
¡since going on the 
¡pill she had developed cervi­
cal dysplasia, a pre-cancer- 
¡ous condition of the cervix.
| She may have to undergo a 
¡very unpleasant procedure in 
¡which the mutant cells are 
¡freeze dried with liquid nitro­
gen.
i As this is one of the most 
[horrifying confrontations a 
woman and her body can be 
faced with, my friend talked 
to a variety of different women 
about it. Her hair dresser
of depleted vitamin B and folic 
acid, and that some birth con­
trol chemicals can reduce the 
amount of these nutrients ab­
sorbed by the body. She asked 
the woman at the health food 
store about this and she agreed 
that leafy greens (a major source 
of B vitamins and folic acid) 
should be every woman’s friend. 
Then she went to her doctor, 
who refused to talk about the 
issue.
I understand the difficulty a 
doctor may have in discussing
folic acid. These are nutri­
ents our bodies need anyway. 
If it doesn’t help to prevent 
cancer, it will still add to a 
woman’s general health.
Most importantly, this may 
give women a sense of agency 
with their own bodies. We 
can feel like there is nothing 
we can do to prevent cervical 
cancer and that the fate of our 
bodies is in the rubber-gloved 
hands of the synthetic phar­
maceutical business. Or, we 
can feel that there is some-
"... it’s my suspicion that when a doctor 
refuses to give you the information you 
request, it’s a sure sign that there is 
some information to be had. ”
health practices that may not 
have the pharmaceutical 
industry’s stamp of approval. 
Actually, that was a big fat lie. 
When prescribing birth control, 
doctors warn women about the 
possible side effects of weight 
gain and lowered sex drive, but 
not about the possibility of low­
ered B vitamin absorption, 
which may be connected to cer­
vical dysplasia.
There would be absolutely no 
harm in suggesting that women
thing we should be doing that 
may help our chances against 
cancer.
We don’t need our doctors’ 
approval to make friends with 
our leafy greens, and it is my 
suspicion that when a doctor 
refuses to give you the infor­
mation you request, it’s a sure 
sign that there is some infor­
mation to be had.
Martha Sullivan is a liter­
ary and. cultural studies ma-
told her that she heard cervi- on birth control supplement jor with a minor in gender 
. cal dysplasia can be the result their diet with B vitamins and studies.
Activities fair grows
By PERRIN ROWLAND
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I remember going to the Activities Fair during 
my freshman year; it was held in a tent next to 
Baker Hall. I think it was raining that year and 
the tent smelled like mildew and the iced tea stand 
that was standard fare during freshman Orienta­
tion. It was crowded, muggy, and with all of the 
screaming from the booths, the free stuff, and that 
popcorn machine, it was a pretty terrifying expe­
rience. This year, the Activities Fair was still loud, 
the popcorn machine was still there, and the free 
stuff was in abundance, but with this University 
Center the only thing missing from the fair were 
the clowns.
Maybe it’s the proclaimed activism of the new 
freshman class, maybe it was the.air-conditioning, 
maybe because it was inside and everything looked 
a lot more dense, but I have never seen so many 
people from CMU in one place before. “It’s crazy! I 
think it is really cool that all these things are here. 
I didn’t even know that there were this'many 
clubs!” said Rita Vosch, freshman IM major .'Spread 
throughout the University Center, the Activities
Fair filled the ballroom, three hallways, and the 
Conn an Room.
Along with well-known organizations such as 
WRCT, the Ultimate Frisbee Team, Spirit, and the 
Filmmaking Club, there were a whole host of clubs 
that I never knew about or were brand new to 
CMU’s campus. For one, there is the CMU Bowling 
team. Started three years ago, they have Club 
Teams and League Teams, made up of mainly 
undergraduates.
A new special interest house named “Haven” 
made its gothic debut by giving out free coffee. 
“We’re here to build up new membership, break 
down some preconceptions,” said Bradley 
Zimmerman, a junior art major. Another new club 
on CMU campus is the Senior Classical League. 
That was the one with the guy in the toga. It is a 
collegiate “Latin Club” where they focus on Roman 
culture and put on Latin competitions. “I love the 
Activities Fair. There is a lot more interest consid­
ering the apathy that CMU usually has,” said Dan 
Saffer, the toga-wearing junior chemical engineer­
ing major.
The apathy of the CMU student body seemed 
1UScrS rSS 6EAf• lcPS LC
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
jvS NG Icr ,oUUSg Ioiv oeiSkSriSg ringSeir Iva ciiSegSg Ucri jvnkrgcb-r EpiosoioSr 6cok3
TN8EFAjA5D
---------- and------------
D?GAEL DGA5FG5D 
m Carnegie Mellon m
Spring 1996 Dean’s List
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences congratulate our students for their outstanding aca­
demic performances during the Spring 1996 semester.
Freshmen
Arthur Ardolino* 
Jonathan Auchter 
Michele Banko 
Maureen Bartek 
Jon Bernardo 
Sarah Biehl 
Nikole Bournias* 
Michael Broom*
Craig Brozinsky 
Alan Charness 
Joseph Chellman 
George Christou*
Becky Cowser 
Carrice Delo*
Lisa Don 
Joshua Donner 
Elizabeth Dragovich* 
Christian Farrell 
Kellie Fenton*
Jennifer Garcia de Osuna 
Brandon Gruner 
Mark Haney*
Janel Hanmer*
Donald Hoag 
Ashley Hunter 
Stacey Jenkins* 
Maria Johnson 
Lisa Kleinman* 
Vivek Kulkarni 
Jack Lam*
Jennifer Lewis*
Kelly Lynema 
Maxwell Mason 
Veena Nath 
Afrodete Neofotistos 
Janies Nickman* 
Tracy Odell*
Shuang Qiu*
Roland Reagan* 
Christina Seeman 
Betty Shea^ 
Alexander Skroupa* 
Emily Spencer 
Michael Subelsky* 
Amanda Tishkoff* 
Yakov Tyutyunikov* 
Robert Watson
Sophomores
Gregory Alexander* 
Daniel Arp*
Samuel Baker 
Diana Bartolotta* 
Ashley Bone* 
Michelle Broge 
Lisa Bublitz 
Carly Cenedella* 
Robert Chittister* 
Julie Dunn 
Jessica Egyhazi 
Amy Eubanks 
Joy Ferguson*
Lori Giarnella*
Maria Gimenez 
Hazlin Hashim* 
James Hawken* 
Chia-Chen Hsu 
Sarah Kelly*
Robert Kyslinger 
Alexandra Landeros* 
Alexander Lewin* 
Tiffany Link
Alexis Lubensky* 
Brian Mancos* 
Gregory Marcks* 
Mindy Marks*
John Muir 
Aiko Muro*
Sravan Narayan* 
Jamie Ogline* 
Jennifer Ragan 
Perrin Rowland* 
Kimberly Sims 
Ting So*
Savit Tewari 
Damerlin Thompson 
Laura Valentine* 
Alex Victoria 
Marshall Warfield* 
Amanda Young 
Winnie Yu 
Richard Zdan
Juniors
Anthony Abeln* 
Michael Ayoob* 
Erika Banuelos 
Vittorio Bernardino* 
Damian Bierman 
Daniel Bonnett 
Peter Boyer*
Jeremy Brooke 
Tracy Coalter 
Derek Davison 
Evan Dean 
Rachel Fields
Jacob Freifeld 
Alisa Gabbe 
Shannon Gibney* 
Jenny Good* 
Jeremy Hanson 
ConalHo*
Kathryn Hoover* 
Esther Jimenez 
Melanie Jones 
Susan Klein 
Reynold Kuo 
Julia LaSalle 
Jennifer Lee*
Huey Lin 
David Liu 
Terry Lumish* 
Adam Malter 
Paul Marcelin* 
Jarrod McAdoo 
Sean McCandless* 
Angela Molloy 
Suzanna Myers 
Aidan Palmer* 
John Rosenberg 
Eric Salzman* 
Andrew Seymour 
Lina Shah 
Michael Sperger* 
Marla Spontak 
Nathan Stark 
Russell Steele* 
Catherine Stergiou 
Brian Surkan* 
Bliksem Tobey 
Beth Trapani 
Michelle Vollmar*
Joshua Wisch
Seniors
Holley Anstatt 
Anthony Babeo 
Jacqueline Biello 
Sonya Brady 
Christy Callahan 
Anthony Chang* 
Cheng-Si Chiang 
Tricia Davis* 
Chong Ee*
Hollie Erdelyi 
Susan Fenton* 
Jessica Flake 
Gautam Gandhi 
Jennifer Goetz 
Jill Goodall 
Michael Grafton* 
Karen Grunberg* 
Anuj Gupta* 
Carole Haggerty 
Lauren Heinz 
Christa Houlahan* 
Lawenda Jones 
Michael Keating* 
Eunjoo Kensinger 
Brad Krepps*
John Lee 
Jamie Lipsky 
Pollyn Lu*
Michelle Malito* 
Alyssa McCunney* 
Jessica Messer* 
Heather Miles
Emily Morris 
Natalie Moyer 
Deena Newsom 
Kristin Nicodemus 
Nicholas Nicolella 
Jason Ouellette 
Scott Pitkin 
Chaliese Poset 
Margaret Puskar* 
Robyn Ratliff* 
William Robertson 
Kathryn 
Rollenhagen 
Eric Schonthal*
Gina Schuyler 
Jon-Anne Sieffert 
Edward Slavishak* 
Heather Stehney* 
Eric Strauss 
Magdalena Strojwas* 
Calvin
Swartzentruber 
Syed Mokhdzar Syed 
Abdul Kadir 
Elizabeth Sylvan* 
Jason Togyer* 
Michael Weidmann 
Gary Wilson 
Jin Yong*
Tara Zane 
Walter Zegers

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996
Student’s project attacks CMU apathy
By AMIT KAR
Tartan Business Manager
Mike Leonard is leaving his mark 
on this University. He’s a fifth-year 
scholar studying management and so­
ciology, having graduated last year in 
math and technical writing. He was 
an Andrew Carnegie Society Scholar 
and is the community advisor for 
Mudge House this year. But on top of 
all that, he’s a man with a mission; 
Mike Leonard has decided to tackle, 
once and for all, the difficult issue of 
improving student satisfaction here 
at CMU. For those of you who remem­
ber this year’s Orientation, he was the 
guy who challenged you to respond 
with the word “bullshit!” every time 
someone said that CMU sucks.
Leonard’s fifth year project proposal 
involves a structured but flexible lay­
ered approach to this seemingly in­
surmountable problem.
His interest in the came about as a 
result of the unique perspective he 
had during his time as an resident 
assistant.
“I noticed that a lot of people gripe 
about this and that, ‘this is what’s 
wrong with this University, this is 
why it sucks, I wish I could leave but 
I can’t for whatever reason,” and I was 
concerned by that,” he said.
But while Leonard’s position allowed 
him to understand the complaints 
heard so often on this campus, being 
an RA also allowed him to see that 
things aren’t necessarily as bad as 
they seem.
“...I saw that there are a lot of really 
cool things going on, there are some 
really neat people doing crazy things, 
whether its academically or other 
things.... It just dumbfounded me that 
people would be so upset about this 
school,” he said.
Leonard’s program tackles the prob­
lem in two broad areas: awareness 
and solutions. The first area refers to 
making students more aware of facili­
ties and opportunities already avail­
able on campus. This part of the pro­
gram was started during freshman 
orientation and revolved around mak­
ing information available to the fresh­
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
8oBS LSaeckg pae,kaeir ivS orrnS a, ringSei 
rcior,cpioae3
man in a novel way that they would be 
more likely to remember later on. En­
listing the help of the orientation counse­
lors, Leonard conducted a number of short, 
entertaining and memorable skits
through which the Class of 
2000 was informed about fa­
cilities such as the Counsel­
ing Center and the housing 
handbook.
“[We were] not expecting 
that they’d remember that the 
Counseling Center was open 
24 hours, even though we’d 
said it, but expecting that 
maybe they’d go, ‘Remember 
that weird guy who was the 
car salesman? What was he 
talking about? Oh yeah, the 
Counseling Center.’That’s all 
we wanted — for them to re­
member that the Counseling 
Center was there,” he said.
Leonard is planning more 
events during Winter Orien­
tation to reinforce the mes­
sages of Fall Orientation and 
a monthly newsletter to keep 
the community informed of improvements 
being made. “Not just the physical [im­
provements], like a new building going 
up,” he said, “but also how Dining is 
trying to change things or how the admin­
istration is trying to get closer to stu- . 
dents.”
The second area of the project revolves 
around establishing a framework through 
which solutions can be discussed for some, .¦ 
of the problems that appear to be respon­
sible for dissatisfaction at CMU. Cur-'- 
rently, Leonard is including some mem7 
bers of faculty and administration as well 
as students. The aim is to provide stu­
dents with a legitimate venue through., 
which their concerns could be 
addressed.“We’re going to talk to people 
in Diningservices, to people in the parkr; 
ing garage, talk to some higher adminis,- 
trators — [we’re not going to] try to solve •> 
everything because I know that’s impos-.1 
sible in one year,” Leonard said.
Leonard is currently trying to enlist the:, 
help of interested students as possible;, • 
the success of his programs rests on stuT-, 
dent involvement and enthusiasm.“I can., 
sit here and idealize all the things I want^. 
to change,” he said, “but if when the cards £ 
are on the table and someone says [CMU. 
sucks], and you turn your head ... you’re - 
saying ‘yeah it sucks, I’m not willing to 
argue.’ ”
Senior laments last year
On My Way Out
by Eric Salzman
Leaving soon. Gonna have to 
get a job, maybe even wear a 
tie. Need to look respectable, 
say things like “please” and 
“thank you.” Sending out re­
sumes and going
to interviews. Do- ---------------
ing lunches and 
taking meetings 
— or waiting 
tables.
Might even miss 
this place a bit.
Won’t get much MBMBMHI 
time with the new 
building — under a year. 
There’s some good people 
around these parts. Gotta keep 
in touch—it’s hard. Long dis­
tance, writing letters, maybe 
through email. It’s still hard. 
One year to go, let’s get it all in 
while we can.
Too busy. No time for the cup 
of coffee. Need to finish my 
paper. Have to send these cover 
letters. Interview at 4 o’clock. 
Internship. Is it paid? No more 
academic credit, please.
There’s nothing permanent? I’d 
prefer it. One week of vacation 
the first year, 12 days the sec­
ond. Virtual office? Not much 
like a cluster. Gonna miss those 
clusters — maybe.
How ’bout that coffee? Pencil 
it in. It’s the only way. This thing 
is my life. Lost it once — got by 
without it. Maybe Tuesday. Af­
ter the seminar, but before the 
party. Have to go to the party. 
Can’t hear anyone there. Need 
to go. Last year for that. Would 
rather have the coffee. Need to 
go to the party. Coffee — when?
“Is that weekly or biweekly pay? 
Monthly! Back to tables. Good 
money on those tables. ”
8? Back by 9:15 though, okay?
No, not that place — too 
greasy. That one’s too noisy. 
That one’s so phony. What! Too 
expensive. Maybe there. Don’t 
even like coffee. Not really 
enough time. Catch up at the 
party. Talk to you then.
Just under a year. Keep in 
touch? Not likely. I’ll miss you 
too. We’ll come back for Carni­
val and compare stories. Oh re­
ally, Chicago. Nice city. Me? 
Maybe Atlanta. You’re staying?
That’ll be fun.
Grad school? I don’t know. 
Lots of paperwork. Interviews. 
Letters of recommendation. 
Need to get to the meeting. 
Coffee? Maybe next week.
Where’ve you been? Your 
friend called. Been days. 
Roommates. Coffee? After ex­
ams. Maybe during senior 
week. What happened to Oc­
tober?
Leaving soon. Maybe take a 
year off. Doing what? I don’t 
know. Europe? Road trip. 
Tables? Grad school? I don’t 
know. Inter-
-------------------- view. Is that
weekly or bi­
weekly pay? 
Monthly! Back 
to tables. Good 
money on 
--------------------- those tables.
Date? Did 
that in college. 
Under a year to go. No time 
now. No money. Spending time 
with myself. Getting to know 
myself. A little bored with my­
self. Date? Cute? Good per­
sonality — no way. Friday 
night? Nothing. Okay, but 
these things never work.
I’m on my way out of here. 
There’s less than a year to go. 
Coffee? Let’s get some today.
Eric Salzman is a senior phi­
losophy major.
Does Your llllflD Race?
For Computar Scianca and Industrial Management Malora, we offer 
satisfying, challenging, long-term carear opportunities:
& Client/Saner Software
Development 
Client/server 
Infrastructure Flanning 
^ Systems architecture 
Design
Systems Requirements/ 
Design/Construction 
Rapid Application 
Development 
-fl System Training/Support 
& Manufacturing Consulting 
-fj Integrated Manufacturing 
Soltwara
Manufacturing Operations 
improvamant 
-'t Industrial Engineering 
Process Improvement
/PutílT¡Z^Accounting Report’s for 1995
1.A•thtíÍPN Ander son & Co.
2.EJhst f.
3^—Slóitte & ^ouche
kPMG Òeat Marwick
dboper^-&vÆ,ybrand
6\PiWat&èhouse
7.-^MC/Simtfey & Pullen
8.Grant Thornton
9.BIX) Seidman
10.Crowe Chliek a Company
11.Baird, Kurtz & Dobsqjj
12.Plante & MorSH^^v^ \
MTCRVIEUM 
September 23 
Ë&reer Center
CROWE CHIZEK 
lor mora Intoimatlon comici Stava Hag Bagan ® bib 752 4201 
or snagoaga@ctowocHl2alLconi
Students get involved
6EAf• 6kam lcPS L2
reminiscent only among upperclassmen. “There 
are definitely more organizations that there used 
to be. The Fair is a little more disconnected because 
it is so spread out 
but... I think there 
really is more school 
spirit than ever be­
fore,” said Austin 
Shifrin, a senior 
psychology major.
The Fair had something for everyone. Like 
SCUBA diving? There is a scuba club. Or go next 
door to the Activities Board. Or if you walked a bit 
further there was the Asian Students Association. 
I overheard a freshman stop by a booth and say 
“ISU. Cool,” and he signed up.
"Like scuba diving? There 
is a scuba club...”
“It’s busy,” said John Hannon, assistant director 
of Student Life. Busy? The place was packed. The 
fair had almost everything: free food, free cups, 
free information, music, the CMU mascot, admit­
tedly no clowns but there 
was still the Juggling Club. 
“It’s kickin’!” said Carl 
Nott, the head mechanic 
of Spirit. “I just wish they 
had nachos,” said 
Zimmerman.
If you wanted to join a club and missed the 
Activities Fair, too bad it’s over. But there are 
always open meetings and advertisements all over 
campus. Believe me, if you are interested in some­
thing, the club exists.
ATTENTION JUNIORS
(& ’th-year students in 2-year programs)
and SENIORS from
Alabama. Hawaii. Idaho. Monmtana. North Dakota, Rhode Island. 
Vermont. Puerto Rico. Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Sa­
moa. and the Northern mariana Islands):
Are you ...
- in the upper 1/4of your class?
- Interested in a career in government or public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should find out more about the 
Harry S.
T ruman
Scholarship
Program
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 
1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the United 
States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Truman's high 
regard for public service, his understanding of government, and his desire to 
enhance educational opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship competi­
tion) seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) who have 
outstanding potential for leadership in public service. Winners receive up to 
$30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for the senior year of 
undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in graduate school [(spread over two 
or three years of graduate study]).
Preliminary applications due: Friday. November 1, 1996. Up to 3-4 stu­
dents will soon thereafter be selected as University nominees, who will 
develop final applications for submission by mid-January, 1997.
Additional information: Information and preliminary application packets are avail­
able In the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. Interested stu­
dents may also contact the Carnegie Mellon Truman Scholarship liaison:—Dr. 
.loseoh Devine. Associate Dean of H&SS. Baker Hall 161 (E-mail is the best 
method for contact. E-mail address: jd0x@Andrew.cmu.edu; phone: X8-6117)
Our clients include: 
Caterpillar 
Fepperidge Farm 
Eli Lilly 
Pharmacia a Upjohn 
McDonalds’ 
Snuare D 
Trane 
little Tikes 
Herman Miller
II

---------------------------------------------------

Here's your chance to enjoy the new ballroom on campust
Din gServrernc smako P leIonNe Gmk,remkp 3mINSrt
1f 5D5Fj jT 5
'v?OD-T i'LIyzy
10,0
l r*~* JL
September y’ (Saturday)8pm - yypm Rangos Hall, University Center Ballroom
.n -v»•33
Don't miss the fun!
Activities Boardbrought to you bySDCStudent Dormitory 
Countil

---------------------------------------------------

.^There's no 
Achilles 
\ here!
What do you 
mean?!Are yoiiW 
more inte-® 
rested in v 
knives than 
jewels. i 
Princess? J%
I've i come here to find Achilles^There’s no 
need to lie, Sir.
Or should I call 
ivou a Prince? 
Take this!
/ 1 know you've been 
entrusted by Achilles’ 
y mother, Thetis, to 
prevent him from 
joining the expedition^
So you’ve 
made him 
disguise as one 
of your daughters,
J t suits
you
better.
Arresthim! M
You can keep 
the sword if you 
like, because 
you’re going to 
need it.
He threw a 
sword at my 
daughter!!
I'm Odysseus! 
, Please come 
with me 
to
\ Aulis. A
i I had no \ 
i choice but\ 
to’ Srieak iri 
like this, Sir.
You refused 
\ me to talk j 
A direct I y to/
itha lo f
Every one\ 
is
waiting te»:« 
there. R’p5
I need to hear ^ 
your answer, 
not your mother's.
tt'i. 'pME Ukffis
MO WAV/ THERE'S iOOSG PX5 awe 6RM& 6Ri1iy AWESBECOE INTWVS ToWKl, ... AsJD TrtWS MiX V
¦ Woiü/ /co 6uys w»kjT \ l"JB úor 
¡BEUEVE &JT LOUGE«. ttAlü,
’ I'MTWE REAL ¿ARMESE ' 8L-ACK CLOTHES,I SEEtle SAtKFtoM ; Amp a mEW6R«a
coitus REftu.y Volu
Hlrt? IpeOuXs^AL 
FbSEfMVtER?
hb Ycsog doe,kasS
y°.' iw with y¡*>, \
GoCÓLCS.1 THAT WE 
IS WAV Too old To 
ge ME/ AW tVS 
CLOTHES ARE HMOR. 
V UNCDiX./ ^
" tOOMT mosr WH, 'epngsCrMo Cts is.' ieer
HE'S REAU/AGIAHC 
SvLVERRSM OUT To 
STEAL cofi, WOMEW/ i
Di NCK CACCIATOUMBILICAL-CORI? FREP
ISUU• vSK• vSkS pamSr3 8b hoiirk^ 
Etf-ólR.LTRíEílD, <W&«\ sozuw; SWELL, 
7 1f3d5 n?Tg \ E8K
K6f51333 d5-f5 WINNING- 
ia t. jT5f5-D NO 
dE) d5 G?NL1 L?D5 
D? A-8 wV?AFR j? L5j 
)?N 1AjGT jTAD INNING.
-"W KEN. THE MEW"' 
foImcI 5J/iN uO4p 
LP°K. LIKE AlJ «W# 
vARr sTuPEi^r
7ÁHDlWAWrM/A6í^ftt7 /J06ENT-vp!Pes 
0$*#/

---------------------------------------------------

Mellon 
College 
of 
Science
Dean’s List 
Spring 1996
The faculty and staff of the 
Mellon College of Science 
congratulate our students 
for their outstanding 
academic performances 
during the spring semester.
Chemistry
Allen, Shannen * 
Bhagat, Noel 
Blanton, W. Bo * 
Daigler, Heidi *
Devine, Annemarie * 
Fishman, Irene *
Fuh, Ru-Chun * 
Gherman, Benjamin * 
Hackney, David 
Kulfan, Anthony *
Lee, Qingliu 
Lcmrow, Shannon 
McKesson, Jason * 
Morales, Carl 
Nair, Pradeep *
Neal, Everett 
Pelet, Serge *
Proekt, Alex *
Sablosky. Rachel * 
Sacco, David *
Sharlow, Nicole 
Sibourd-Baudry, Albane 
Slaby, Emily * 
Smithline, Deborah 
Snyder, James 
Solitro, Matthew *
Sun, Jun 
Wu, Rose *
Zeiszlcr, Lee *
*Dean 's List High Honors
Mathematics
Ambrose, David * 
Angehm, Ivo *- 
Appert, Simone * 
Beatty, Ann *
Carbone, Catherine 
Carmichael, Christine * 
Douglas, Ty 
Fearing, Doug *
Foss, Mikil *
Fridd, Jennifer *
Gaal, Michael * 
Goblesky, Holly 
Hsu. Katy *
Jamison, Ruth *
Kich, Jessica * 
McWherter, David * 
Moreno, Patience * 
O'Shea, Eileen *
Obloy, Julie 
Pivarski, Melanie * 
Rosenberg, Daniel * 
Sakagami, Miyako 
Snyder, Andrew * 
Tilkin, Daniel *
Tobak, Jeffrey * 
Walton, William * 
Weber, Keith *
Weiner. Craig *
Young, Gary
You can also find the Spring 1996 
Dean's List (and the Dean’s List 
criteria) on the Office of 
Undergraduate Affairs web site:
http://info.mcs.cmu.edu/
Physics
Barbut, Sylvia *
Bircher, Alex *
Brady, Douglas *
Cook, Nicole 
Doty, John
Humensky, T. Brian * 
Kersting, Nicholas 
Kuah, Aik-Meng * 
McCann. James 
McGahagan, Helena * 
Merrelli, Aronne 
Miller, Gregg *
Ng, Fong Lui *
Pope, Adrian *
Presby, Andrew 
Purdy, Kirstin * 
Randerson, Patrick 
Santoro, Andrea * 
Schwitz, Dominique * 
Soha, Aron *
Vitek, Jeffrey 
Whittaker, Thomas
Biological Sciences
Baltazar, Romulo 
Bemstein-Hanley, Isaac 
Bhaumik, Apala * 
Bianchi, Nicholas * 
Bluth. Brian *
Bruno. Vincent 
Cassella, Amy * 
Cerrone, Richelle * 
Collins, Keirsten * 
Connor, Rebecca 
DeFilippo, Jennifer 
Deutschbauer, Adam * 
Eck. Jeffrey 
Filippino, Scott *
Frew, Sarah * 
Gamaluddin, Shereen *
Gindin, Tatyana * 
Gokhale, Abhay * 
Greenwald, Mami 
Gunaratnam, Paul * 
Hoedt, Marie-Louise * 
Huang, Miriam * 
Kaufman, Elad *
Lau, Chris *
Leonardo, Teresa * 
Lewis, Bryan 
Lii, Dih-Yng 
Maneckshana, Bejon 
Matcuk, George * 
McNeil. Nicole 
Moore, Jodi * 
Nagendra, Shweta * 
Nargund, Varada * 
O'Malley, Jennifer * 
Patel, Pratik *
Perez, Rosemary 
Phua, Hee *
Rail, Christina * 
Ramaprasad, Saroja * 
Rathbun, Kristen 
Romero, Jennifer 
Saba, Sam *
Santory, Melissa * 
Schwartz, Jennifer 
Shereck, Evan * 
Spadoni, Jena 
Stanger, Michael * 
Stevenson, Todd * 
Stoddard, Victoria * 
Suntoke, Tara *
To, Michelle *
Trivedi, Anjana *
Van, Phil 
Vibhakar, Neel *
Warn, Elin *
Weiss, Holly *
Wemer, Jonathan * 
Zometzer, Gregory *
1A((E!
t THE TARTAN recruit-
ment meeting
Happens at 2 pm
on Tuesday, 
September y0
n The Adamson Wm^
er Hall yC*
there, or ema 
or more info.

---------------------------------------------------

jvS jckice• GckeSPoS 8SUUae NeosSkroib• 1oiirhnkPv• 1SeerbUsceocVolume 91, ArrnS 2
rt hunt ends on fifth floor of library
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Staffwriter
r Though Hunt Library has five floors, 
:w CMU students have ever ventured 
¡ast the fourth floor. Some may have 
fyen wondered why the 
{levator has a button 
jmarked “5.” Others 
may know that the fifth 
floor houses the Hunt 
Institute, but few know 
gvhat this institute is 
jr does.
The Hunt Institute 
Itir Botanical Documen- 
;ation was a gift from 
;Ke late Mr. and Mrs.
£oy Hunt. Mrs. Hunt 
Established the insti- 
iute in 1960 as a place 
;o store her personal 
¡ollection of botanical 
iterature, art, and ar­
rival materials. She 
ioped not only to pre­
serve this collection, 
tfhich was one of the 
vorld’s greatest, but 
also to provide the col- 
iection for scholars’ and 
scientists’ use world­
wide.
i The Hunt Institute 
began as a very stately 
affair. According to Cu­
rator of Art and Senior 
Research Scholar 
James White, “Mrs.
Hunt would entertain guests every 
tVednesday afternoon” on the fifth floor, 
then referred to as the “penthouse.” To­
day the Hunt Institute has lost some of 
the formality and pomp that it once 
entailed, but still remains distinct in 
appearance and atmosphere from the
rest of the library. appointment with one of the librarians.
The institute has five main capacities Of most interest to students are the 
with the most obvious being its library art exhibits Hunt Institute showcases, 
comprised of over 23,000 volumes, spe- The exhibits change about twice a year 
cializing in primary source material pub- and last for two to four months. The next 
lished between 1550 and 1850. The art exhibit, “Contemporary Botanical Art- 
collection, consulted by scholars and ists: The Shirley Sherwood Collection,”
opens for the public 
on September 16. Art 
Curator James White 
said this collection 
“may be the finest pri­
vate collection in the 
world. ” The collection 
features paintings by 
artists from around 
the world as collected 
by Sherwood as she 
traveled while doing 
medical research. Af­
ter it leaves CMU, the 
collection will travei 
throughout the U.S. 
and overseas, ending 
up by this summer at 
the Museum of Mod­
ern Art in New York 
City.
Though the insti­
tute hosts visitors 
from around the 
world, few students 
attend the exhibits. 
White emphasized 
that students “are 
definitely welcome.” 
Additionally, since 
Hunt Institute is 
funded by the Univer­
sity, students should 
take advantage of the resource. The ex­
hibit, once it begins, will be open from 9 
am until 5 pm, Monday through Friday, 
except from noon to 1 pm.
So next time you are in the elevator at 
Hunt, do not be afraid to press the but­
ton marked five.
Courtesy of Hunt Library
jvor or aeS a, ivS enmSkanr lcoeioePr ivci pce hS rSSe ci ivS Tnei 
OaiceopcU AerioiniS ae ivS 2iv ,Uaak a, Tnei Lohkckb3
artists worldwide, contains over 30,000 
watercolors, drawings, and original 
prints with an emphasis on twentieth 
century works and artists. Its other 
functions include bibliographies, ar­
chives, and publications. Anyone wish­
ing to use these resources must make an
Phipps features fall’s latest foliage
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Editor
i A secret garden in our own backyard. 
And unfortunately for most CMU stu­
dents, it’s a secret that’s been kept a bit 
too well. The Phipps Conservatory, lo­
cated across the street from Flagstaff 
Hill in Schenley Park, has recreated the 
fictional playground for children and 
adults in the Children’s Discovery Gar­
den, an interactive exhibition that al­
lows for a hands-on exploration of a 
¡variety of plant life. It offers a horticul­
tural history and lets kids rediscover 
their roots through plants.
; In conjunction with the Carnegie 
Museum’s Beatrix Potter display, the 
phipps Conservatory traces The Tale of 
'Peter Rabbit and The SquirrelNutkin by 
putting plants in a storybook context. 
•Kids can associate the events of a well- 
known story with the plants .that sur­
round them. Kids might not remember 
¡that bamboo is a native plant of all 
¡continents except Europe and Antarc­
tica, but they will recall the type of 
greens that grew in that patch where 
Mr. McGregor lives. 
r “How much alike are you and a 
plant?” it reads in the self-guided tour 
ibook. Its different botanical areas are 
divided into categories like “Bird Gar­
den” and “Bee Garden” and shows howjvS OniiSk,Ub PckgSe or aeS a, SoPvi PckgSer ,ak pvoUgkSe3
K» Paulina Berczynski/Dossier Design Editor
1vollr GaerSksciakbHr eSI PckgSe pkSciSr c ,ne Icb ,ak pvoUgkSe ia UScke3
each animal must interact with 
plants for survival.
The Phipps Conservatory houses 
13 glass displays and a number of 
outdoor courtyards with running 
water and fountain displays. Judg- 
ing from the exterior of the green­
house, it’s difficult to realize the 
huge dimensions of the actual 
space. Once you enter, the path 
through the different exhibits is a 
bit jungle-like, and a bit Mine Alice 
in Wonderland.
Built in 1893, the Conservatory 
acquired a good number of its 
plants at that time from the clos­
ing of the Chicago World’s Colom­
bian Exhibition in 1894. Henry 
Phipps took on the project in coa­
lition with Andrew Carnegie; 
Phipps’ main philanthropy was 
the conservatories while Carnegie 
dealt with the establishment of 
Pittsburgh libraries.
The next show, Fall Flowers, 
will run from Oct. 5—27. Tours are 
held Tuesday through Saturday 
at 11 am and 1 pm.
Apparition tour 
plays the ’Burgh
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Birmingham Gallery in the South Side appears to have once been a church 
of some type. With 40-ft vaulted ceilings, high relief sculptures set into the far 
wall, waxed hardwood floors, and large potted ferns, the place easily wins the 
title of “classiest live venue in Pittsburgh.” When the concert you’re staging 
is possibly the most anticipated line-up of Gothic music in recent history, and 
your audience is an attractive swarm of black velvet, lace, and leather, class 
is the only thing that counts.
The Apparition Tour is a spotlight of what’s new in the plethora of sub­
genres under the midnight umbrella of Goth. From the industrial buzz of 
upstarts Ichor to the nightmarescape darkwave of Malign, the guitar-driven 
dance of Sunshine Blind to the traditional gothrock of headliners Faith and
"We’ve been kicking Goth tuckus from 
hereI to there." 
—Caroline Blind
the Muse, the bands (all based in the Bay Area) provide a radically diverse 
show, which somehow never deviates from the common emotional core.
Ichor opened the show with conviction, and after a slow start got the 
notoriously stoic Pittsburgh crowd to their feet. The audience of approxi­
mately 150 one-by-one caught onto the band’s familiar Skinny Puppy- 
influenced vibe, most noticeably during the track “Is that what you wanted,” 
off the Industrial Nation Fifth Anniversary sampler. Although some of the 
band’s older material is admittedly juvenile and the samples sometimes all 
too familiar, the band is delving deeper into more diverse soundscapes of 
noise and feedback while retaining the dance-oriented grooves.
On the truly darker side, Malign, fronted by tour organizer Xavier Haight, 
created a cacophony of cathedral synths and pounding drums. Xavier’s 
dramatic stage presence and vocal style (a mesh of Alien Sex Fiend and 
Siouxie Sioux), captivated the crowd in an atmosphere of smoke machines 
and red light. Malign’s album, Shatter and Impale, on Xavier’s Anubis 
Recordings label highlights the band’s sonic nightmare vision.
Proclaimed the darlings of New Goth, Sunshine Blind’s performance made 
it clear who the majority of the crowd were there to see. Flaunting their love 
for ’80s synth-pop (as evidenced by their new material for their forth-coming 
second release Liquid) and crushing guitars, vocalist Caroline Blind per­
formed all the vocal acrobatics from their 1995 album Love the Sky to Death 
to a crowd which by this time filled the floor with mystically gyrating bodies. 
This being their third appearance in Pittsburgh in a year, they somehow keep 
maturing and are easily one of the tightest bands around in any genre. 
Thanks to their non-stop work schedule, expect to see them back supporting 
Liquid in a few months.
Headliners Faith and the Muse, weaving Celtic myths, classical and 
eastern influences, and dark theater into a potion which defies pigeonholing, 
brought to the stage a mystique that all but enraptured the onlookers. 
Vocalist Monica Richard (ex-Strange Boutique) and the legendary William 
Faith fronted an all-star line-up which spotlighted the heavier material from 
their new album Annwyn, Beneath the Waves. Although far from typical,
Please see GOTH ROCK, page L9
Courtesy of Apparition 
jvS Ellckoioae iank pamlkorSr sckoanr Paivop kapB ckiorir3

---------------------------------------------------

Dr. Moreau gets two thumbs down
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
It seemed like a really good 
idea. A classic story of science 
gone awry by H.G. Wells, retold 
as a modern feature film with 
high-caliber stars and great 
makeup effects. What they ended 
up with was a film that 
has very little going 
for it.
In the film, Dr.
Moreau (Marlon 
Brando, The Godfa­
ther) is a Nobel Prize- 
winning geneticist 
who, on his quest to 
create the “perfect” 
human, creates ¦¦¦¦¦¦ 
“mammals” — humans with ani­
mal body parts. It’s sort of a ge­
netic mish-mash, if you will. 
Edward Douglas (DavidThewlis, 
Dragonlieart) is a castaway who 
is rescued by Montgomery (Val 
Kilmer, Batman Forever), who is 
Dr. Moreau’s “veterinarian.” Es­
sentially a prisoner on the Is­
land, Douglas tries to escape, and 
in doing so encounters the crea­
tures that Dr. Moreau created.
The rest of the film involves a 
rebellion of the rules that Moreau 
set forth to “his children.”
The acting is mediocre. Brando, 
who was great in his older mov­
ies, is reduced to muttering about 
the perfect human. Kilmer, who 
was never a great actor to begin 
with (Brando was rumored to
“If you really want to see it, 
then wait for video. Even bet­
ter, let someone else rent it 
for you. ”
have told Kilmer “Don’t confuse 
the size of your paycheck with 
your talent.”) delivers a passable 
performance as Moreau’s second 
in command. While I have not 
read the book, I’m sure that it is 
not as hollow as the movie seems. 
Nice visuals from Stan Winston 
Studios and Digital Domain help 
convince the audience of the ex­
istence of the manimals, but does 
little to boost the story. In the
end, you are left with a bit of eye 
candy that isn’t something you 
would want to look at for two 
hours anyway. It seemed to lack 
structure, probably due to the 
mess behind the scenes. Aside 
from changing the script many 
times, the movie got an overhaul 
when John Frankenheimer (The 
Manchurian Candi- 
date) took over the 
production as direc­
tor from Richard 
Stanley {Hardware). 
Rob Morrow, who 
was cast as Douglas, 
left the production, 
and was replaced
--------------- with Thewlis. So, ev-
¦¦¦¦¦¦ erything that was 
filmed had to be scrapped and 
started over again. The conflict 
between Brando and Kilmer 
was pretty nasty, and 6ven 
Frankenheimer had indicated 
that he doesn’t plan on working 
with Kilmer again. The best 
sequence of the film was the 
opening credit sequence. A nice 
montage of images juxtaposed 
withrhythmic music makes for 
an exciting opening to what be­
comes a rather unexciting film.
If you want to see The Island 
of Dr. Moreau, read the book 
instead. If you really want to 
see it, then wait for video. Even 
better, let someone else rent it 
for you.
Paris Frankfurt Madrid Cairo Guatemala San Francisco Seattle
Fmb W WM «fcr HCM nnSMCH MB) CN A n MD*SL fms DO NX KUK KK*U»C S3 MO S4S. cbbon:_____________C0MMIOWCS MO DKCCr ID IOQOI GOAMtfMB.
Call for a FREE 
Student Tnwdt Magazinel
]Travel -Council
118MEVRAN Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-1881
FEMALE STUDENTS:
HOW ARE YOU SPENDING YOUR WEEKEND?
• Novum, Inc., a leading pharmaceutical research 
company, is currently recruiting healthy, non­
tobacco using, fair-complected women ages 18 to 
SO to participate in a study designed to compare 
unmarketed creams and ointments with already 
marketed products used to reduce inflammation 
and itching.
• This study requires that participants stay at our 
facility near the Pitt and CMU campuses from a 
Friday evening through Sunday afternoon.
• A free medical evaluation will verify your 
eligibility for the study.
• You will be compensated up to $170.00 for your 
participation.
• For further information or to find out if you 
qualify, please call:
(’y2) C*CV0’00 ak UVD??Vz2*V222z
There is no obligation if you call, and 
all calls are strictly confidential.
4
Pharmaceutical Research Services 
5900 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15206
It takes a special kind of film to deal with the 
trauma of head injury, the corruption in society, 
and the interaction of criminals and cops all with 
an even-tempered hand. Fortunately, Bulletproof 
is not one of those movies.
What: Bulletproof Director: Ernest Dickerson Company: Universal Pictures
Instead, Bulletproof is an over-the-top action 
comedy starring Damon Wayans as Rock Keats 
and Adam Sandler as Archie Moses. The title is an 
allusion to Keat’s head, which survives a dead-on 
shot from pal Moses during a drug deal gone bad.
Keats and Moses are partners in crime, only one 
of them (and I won’t tell you which) is really a cop. 
The other is involved with a drug lord posing as a 
car dealer (James Caan). He decides to let his 
friend in on his scheme, and the three hold a 
meeting, the end result of which is the aforemen­
tioned drug deal. Wayans’s identity (all right, so I 
told you) is discovered, however, and Sandler acci­
dentally shoots him in the head. This is where the 
movie really takes off.
The next few moments include everything from 
amazing recoveries to new relationships, plane 
crashes to character studies. It’s all taken at break­
neck pace, for comedy is what it’s all about. As you 
can imagine, the transitions between some of these 
scenes (which also include the requisite gunfights 
and gruesome deaths) are rocky, but this is by 
design. After all, smoothing these over would bog 
us down in boring therapy or sitcom drama and kill 
the fast-moving comic plot. Therefore, the only.
© Universal City Studios Inc.
Egcm DcegUSk rlakir ivci ahUosoanr UaaB ivci vS Ar ra ISUU BeaIe ,ak• IvoUS vS rickr 
oe vor eSI masoS Bulletproof.
solution is to treat them all as separate jokes, 
which works to a fair degree.
Aside from the comedy, the movie apparently 
has a serious plot as well, with Moses trying to 
forgive Keats for turning him in and Keats learn­
ing to trust Moses after being shot in the head. This 
only allows the comedy to build, however, and 
provides a spot from which jokes can spin off. These 
jokes are uneven, some hysterically funny, some 
with no impact, and some simply in bad taste. A lot 
of them work because of the chemistry between 
Wayans and Sandler, who play well off of each 
other, or maybe it’s simply because of their famil­
iarity with the subject matter. Sandler gets a lot of
time to talk about strange 
sexual behaviors, bodily 
functions, and drugs, which 
seem to follow him around.
Wayans is relegated to the
straight man role, settingup or enhancing Sandler’s 
jokes.
The rest of the actors do what they can with their 
small roles, but in essence their appearances are 
decorative; the focus is always on Sandler and 
Wayans. An exception is Caan, who does get in a 
few jokes of his own while repeating his perfor­
mance as chief bad guy from Eraser. Kristen Wil­
son is Rock’s girlfriend and James Farentino his
© Universal City Studios Inc.
E,iSk c UaeP vocinr• Ycmae dcbcer kSinker cr fapB xScir oe Bulletproof.
police captain, but their appearances are brief.
Bulletproof is a movie you watch simply to laugK! 
and have a good time. In essence, the plot doesn’t! 
matter at all; it is only a vehicle for the nonstop! 
jokes. Ifyou’re looking for an introduction to the art! 
of cinema, look elsewhere. If, however, you’re look-! 
ing for a bit of relief from the daily CMU grind, this1 
is a safe bet. Just be sure to watch out for people1 
with metal plates in their heads afterwards.
Aliens land at local club
Andrew IVIcDermott/Tartan Managing EditorAndrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor
Dickpknepv koePr ani c UaI E (US,i)• ceg Gapa ivS 5USpikaeop 8aeBSb doWckg (koPvi) UaaBr UoBS c gSSk oe 
vScgUoPvir ci ivS ivSok jvnkrgcb eoPvi PoP ci wc,oiio3
By ANDREW McDERMOTT
Tartan Managing Editor
It was retro dork hell or heaven 
last Thursday at Graffiti, depend­
ing on your definition, and being 
a dork, I had a great time. I was 
thereto see Man... Or Astroman?, 
the crazy surf rock band from 
outer space by way of Auburn, 
and more recently Atlanta.
The first band up was the 
Hentchman, a trio from Detroit. 
The Hentchman were a bare 
bones guitar, organ, and drums 
trio, which proved, without a 
doubt, that garage rock is alive 
and well. The Hentchman tapped 
a pretty consistent vein of song 
material, with songs like “Red 
Hot Car,” a song about drag rac­
ing, and “So Many Girls,” about 
pure unadulterated lust for the 
opposite sex.
The Hentchmen got a mediocre 
reception at first from the early 
evening crowd; most of the audi­
ence hadn’t arrived yet. They took 
it in stride, chiding those present 
with comments like, “Hope you’re 
comfy out there.” The growing 
crowd gave them a pretty good 
ovation between songs, and there 
were even shouts of “Play more” 
at the end of their set, though I’m 
pretty sure the guy yelling was
the roadie for Man ... Or 
Astroman?
After an interminable wait, the 
club filled with strange pulsing 
feedback, signaling that Man ... 
Or Astroman? were preparing to 
take the stage. The crowd pressed 
toward the stage, but things re­
mained calm; after all, this was 
an over-21 crowd.
At this point, televisions that 
had been dormant on-stage 
throughout the Hentchmen set 
flickered to life, and two projec­
tors on the balcony illuminated 
the back of the stage. During the 
set, a variety of films and videos 
would flash by. The presentation 
kept rolling throughout the show, 
with everything from Godzilla 
flicks to ’50s instructional films.
When it comes to actual music, 
the Man... Or Astroman? set was 
surf guitar in fast forward. I could 
swear there was not one mellow 
song in the entire set, but that 
could just be a general impres­
sion of the unbridled energy Man 
... Or Astroman? brings to the 
stage.
The set consisted of some Man 
... or Astroman? standbys such 
as “Escape Velocity” and “PutYer 
Finger in The Socket;” and some 
new songs off their current re­
lease Experiment Zero such as
“Television Fission,” “Planet Col^' 
lision,” “9 Volt,” and “Maximum 
Radiation Level.”
Between songs, the band would! 
stop to talk to the audience. “YoiiJ 
knew we were from outer space',] 
you knew we were susceptible« 
yet you gave them to us,” said!; 
BirdstufF, as he berated the crowd!;, 
for inflicting Earth diseases on! 
the band.
The band hurtled headlong; 
through the set, stopping only fo£; 
a few technical difficulties. ;J, 
The show crashed abruptly to 
halt. Birdstuffs drum set came5; 
crashing down, as did all of th^t 
mic stands, and they dropped! 
their guitars with almost carer!:, 
less abandon. As feedback swelled!i 
over the crowd, every member o^; 
the band ran off stage, except for 
Coco the Electronic Monkey Wiz^ 
ard, the bassist. Coco proceeded 
to drag a tesla coil, which had,', 
remained still for the entire set;^ 
to center stage.
• With manic glee, he began trign 
gering the tesla coil. Little bolts 
of electricity jumped into the aii) , 
in all directions, and then Coco; 
also ran from the stage. As the ! 
crowd cheered for an encore that! 
would never come, I could smelj' , 
the unmistakable odor of a smoljy 
dering electrical fire.
L8 The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996
Bulletproof provides quick shot of laughter
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
(

---------------------------------------------------

GOTH ROCK, from page L7
Faith and The Muse gave a les­
son on all that is mature about 
the gothic spectrum.
From the highly amicable ven­
dors of tour merchandise and 
local ’zines, to all the bands’ 
eagerness to mingle with the 
crowd and receptiveness to in­
terviews, to the good-natured 
crowd, the evening was widely 
heralded as being the best over­
all show in Pittsburgh in recent 
memory. Because the tour is
financed by the bands them­
selves and not a record label, 
the $12 ticket prices were a 
value of the utmost level.
Not to mention, for 
efficiency’s sake, all equipment 
with the exception of guitars, is 
shared among the bands, al­
lowing quick set changes. In a 
tour founded on the friendship 
of the bands, this type of good­
will is all too absent in today’s 
music climate.
Unfortunately, due to costs
and neighbors concerned about 
the volume, regardless of the 
good behavior of the crowd, the 
pristine acoustics of Birming­
ham Gallery will not be used for 
long.
Promoter Manny Theiner’s 
coup in procuring this venue
will go down in Pittsburgh folk­
lore after but two shows. Do 
yourself a favor and experience 
the Gallery on September 19 
when Cleopatra Records’ “Con­
gregation Tour,” featuring 
Christian Death and Big Elec­
tric Cat, rolls into town.
r^lRlSl) VAL
McSbrfeyk
DSli3 yCVy2• y44*
TcU,Icb ia Di3 1cikopB-r Ycb!
I-C Light Amphitheatre and Festival Tent 
Station Square
Frl - 4 pm - Midnight * Sat. -11 am - Midnight * Sun. 9 am - 8 pm
OUcpB ’z 
(6kogcb aeUb!)
OkaivSk
+ GSUiop fapB
+ Akae Goib ceg 8pDakUSb-r ae jcl
* EnivSeiop 6aag• 8nrop ceg YcepoeP 
+ EUU cPSr ISUpamS!
* Yae-i morr 1oiirhnkPv-r hoPPSri Akorv 1ckib!
$6 -Adult • $3 -Children, - 3-12 yrs. (under 3 - free) »$12 -Weekend pass
September 4 (AP)Top five movies and T.V. shows
6AL8D
1. The Crow: City of Angels, 
Miramax
2. Tin Cup, Warner Bros.
3. First Kid, Buena Vista
4. A Time to Kill, Warner Bros.
5. The Island of Dr. Moreau,
New Line
DH 2210
movies you may have seen before..
Ob tave OoPPr
Thursday, September 12
Cries and Whispers
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 September 1996 |_9
xSsoe GarieSk paVrickr cr c PaU, lka oe Tin Cup.
There were these two people, a guy and a girl, 
who went out into the country (in their car) to visit 
each other (get it?). So they’re in the car and a radio 
bulletin comes over the radio that says, “Atten­
tion. A mass-murderer named Smith (or some­
thing) has escaped from the maximum-security 
prison and is at large. He can be identified by his 
blonde hair and the hook he has for a left hand.”
So the guy gets scared but the girl figures, “Hey, 
he’s a patsy,” and tells him to sit tight. They lock 
the doors and wait. But the guy is scared. Then 
they hear a noise in the bushes and suddenly a cat 
jumps onto the hood of their car and then runs 
away. So that freaks them both out major.
So they drive away, you know? And they hear 
this squalling like they must have hit the cat, but 
they aren’t about to turn around and leave a note. 
They drive and drive, and when they get home and 
open the car doors, they find a hook on one of the 
door handles. True story.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight
DH2210
j7
1. Seinfeld, NBC 
2.20 K20, ABC
3. Home Improvement, ABC
4. Walker, Texas Ranger, CBS
5. Friends, NBC Doehcg ceg OkaaB 1oSkpS rick oe First Kid.
Uh oh. Old Iggy Bergman is back in black with a 
moody look at some woman dying. See, it’s pretty 
much like this: This old girl is near death. All her 
family and friends come around to say “hi.” Then 
they talk. And talk. And talk.
OK, now don’t get me wrong. While this movie is 
no barrel of monkeys (although it could be if the 
I monkeys were dead), it’s a wonderful and moving 
„ look at loss. Just take a little Prozac and drink a 
bottle of Southern Comfort ’afore you go, or you’ll 
7 be one sad fellow afterwards.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight 
DH2210
jfe-
Friday, September 13
Mission: Impossible
Outside there’s a boxcar waiting. And you know 
,, what that means. It means Tom Cruise just made 
a movie!
So he runs around shooting people. The govern­
ment is out to kick his arse. He hangs off the ceiling 
using ropes. He’s a daring young man on the 
floating trapeze. Pretty exciting jive.
Anyway, this one goes out to the one you love. 
Fire. Fire. Fire.
>1 r
:c At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, September 14
Top Gun¡rr
ylDid you know that Meg Ryan and Tim Robbins 
starred in Top Gun? I sure didn’t. Boy was I 
- surprised. In fact, Chris didn’t even know that, 
“ and Chris tends to know everything, except where 
he left his shirt. 
ri Chris wonders what would have happened if 
, Robbins and Ryan had played the leads in Top Gun 
instead ofin/Q. I think old Tom Cruise would have 
been pretty cool as a bumpkin with sultry Val 
; Kilmer as his love interest whom he talks to 
.7 Einstein about. The possibilities are staggering, 
let me tell you. 
s* Anyway: planes, guns, Goose, blowing stuff up,
; sex. Nice film. See it with your favorite dog-fighter.¡is
„ Times TBA 
s. DH2210
In
Sunday, September 15
The Blob (1988)
Tour makes impression on Goth scene
Movie compiles acclaimed animation
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
This compilation of several àni- 
mated shorts showcases the 
award winning clay animation 
that has come out of Aardman 
Animation since 1982.
dvci: Wallace and 
Gromit: The Best of 
Aardamn Animation 
YokSpiak: FopB 1ckB 
1kagnpSk: Eckgmce 
Eeomcioae
These shorts are all animated 
with painstaking precision and 
care. It comes as no surprise that 
these shorts are some of the most 
acclaimed to ever come out of any 
country.
The centerpiece of this festival 
is Nick Park’s A Close Shave, 
winner of the 1996 Academy 
Award for best animated short. 
This half-hour adventure stars 
Park’s characters Wallace, a mild 
mannered Englishman, and 
Gromit, his dog. This is the third 
animated short featuring these 
two characters, the first being 
the 1989 release, A Grand Day 
Out, and the second, released in 
1992, The Wrong Trousers, which 
got Nick Park his second Oscar.
In A Close Shave, Wallace and 
Gromit have taken to cleaning 
windows in order to support their 
cheese and cracker habit. The 
pair meets up with Wendolene 
Ramsbottom, owner of a wool 
shop, who is the perfect female 
counterpart to Wallace, and he 
entreaties to gain her affections. 
But there is a more sinister plot
afoot. A wool shortage has struck 
England, and sheep are being sto­
len from the countryside. Preston, 
Wendolene’s dastardly dog is the 
number one suspect, and Gromit 
is hot on the trail.
But once Gromit is 
within sniffing dis­
tance, Preston sets 
him up for the 
crime, and Gromit 
is sent to the pound 
for life. It all ends 
in one of the most 
spectacular • chase 
scenes ever set to 
claymation, full of 
great surprises, of 
which I will give 
none away.
This production 
cost close to $2 mil­
lion to make, with 
about 25 people 
working on the 
film, and it shows 
in the quality of the 
animation. The 
clay figures are al­
most better than 
real actors — they 
are perfect in their 
expressions, cost 
much less than a 
Hollywood star 
(and have more dcUUcpS ceg 
charisma), and 
don’t complain about the cater­
ing. They also make for a half 
hour of hilarious surprises and 
slapstick, and a little adventure 
and romance, just for fun.
Besides A Close Shave, there 
are a plethora of other animation 
shorts shown, including Nick 
Park’s first Oscar winner, Crea-
ture Comforts. It shows inter­
views with zoo animals, who com­
plain about the lack of space and 
about the poor weather. This one 
is also hilarious, if you can get
hell out of each other; two Rex the 
Runt episodes, which you may 
have seen on MTV’s Liquid Tele­
vision, where a dog shows us his 
weird world and all the television
Courtesy of Harris Theater 
wkamoi Ar rvaIoeP ci ivS Tckkor jvSciSk ivkanPv DSliSmhSk yz3
past the sometimes thick and 
semi-intelligible British accents 
and poor sound.
Others included are Wat’s Pig, 
a story of two royal twins sepa­
rated at birth, only to cross paths 
as adults; Pib and Pog, a parody 
of children’s shows, in which two 
characters end up blowing the
clichés that accompany it; and a 
few other short ones.
I recommend this festival 
highly: It is chock full of wit weird­
ness, and if you don’t like it, see a 
doctor. The Best of Aardman Ani­
mation is playing at the Harris 
Theater at 809 Liberty Ave. until 
September 17.
Good for one paid admission. $1 off with coupon and college I.D. 
Present coupon at box office for discount. No cash value.
6ak makS Ae,akmcioae ’y2V’22V2*’26coiv ceg ivS 8nrS or lcki a, ivS Ellckoioae iank3

---------------------------------------------------

MOVIES
SPORTS
Top Gun will be playing this Saturday at McConomy Auditorium.Women’s Soccer will be playing home against 
Allegheny College at 5pm on September 11.
Men’s Soccer will be playing at Washington & 
Jefferson College at 7:30 pm on September 11, and 
at Case Western Reserve University at 3:30 pm on 
September 14.
Men’s & Women’s Cross-Country will be here 
against California of PA. Invitational. Time and 
place TBA.
Women’s Volleyball will be here for the 
Gettysburgh College Tournament at 1 pm on Sep­
tember 13 to 14.
Women’s Tennis will be at Westminster college 
at 3 pm on September 9, and in the Carnegie 
Mellon classic on September 14 to 15. Time and 
Place TBA.
Men’s Tennis will be at Allegheny College at 3 pm 
on September 12.
Silver Eye Center for Photography presents 
Wendy Ewald, Retratos y Suenos/Portraits and 
Dreams, Photographs by Mexican Children. Exhibi­
tion of photographic and written work created by 
elementary school children in Chiapas, Mexico. 
Organized and circulated by Curatorial Assistance, 
Inc., and sponsored by Polaroid Corporation. 
Complemented by an exhibition of photography and 
creative writing by Pittsburgh Northside Children 
who took part in a three-week summer workshop 
entitled Literacy Through Photography. Exhibition 
will run September 18 to November 19,1996. 
Opening reception on Friday, September 27, 5 to 8 
pm. The Silver Eye Center for Photography, 1015 
East Carson Street on Pittsburgh’s Southside. 
Galleiy hours are Tuesday to Saturday noon to 5 pm. 
Literacy Through Photography will run from Sep­
tember 25 to November 9,1996. Opening reception 
on Thursday, October 3,1996. At the Children’s 
Museum, 10 Children’s Way, open Monday through 
Saturday 10 am to 5 pm and Sunday noon to 5 pm. 
For further information, contact The Silver Eye at 
431-1810 or The Children’s Museum at 332-5058.
Silver Eye Center for Photography Call for 
entries for Silver Eye Center for Photography’s 11th 
Annual Members’ Exhibition. Deadlines for entries 
is Wednesday, November 6,1996. No entry fee for 
current members. If you are not a member, there is 
a $35.00 membership fee. Submit up to five original 
photographic or slide pieces. Additional pieces may 
be submitted at a cost of $5 a slide or print. Cash 
award for show given in memory of John Caldwell, 
who generously supported photographers and 
artists. Exhibited January 22 through February 28,
1997 at the Silver Eye Center for Photography. 
Gallery hours are Tuesday to Saturday noon to 5 pm. 
For further information, contact The Silver Eye at 
431-1810.
LECTURES
Fifth Annual McLean Law Lecture: Ben­
jamin B. Ferencz and Henry T. King, Former 
Prosecutors at Nuremberg War Crimes trials. 
Benjamin Ferencz graduated from Harvard in 
1943, enlisted in the U.S. Army and at age 27 
became Chief Prosecutor for the U.S. He is 
currently an Adjunct Professor of International 
Law at Pace University and founder of the Pace
Peace Center. Henry King graduated from Yale 
and Yale Law School. King is United States 
Director of the Canada-United States Law 
Institute, and Professor of Law at Case Western 
Reserve University of Law where he teaches 
international arbitration, and is currently 
writing a book on one of the Nuremberg defen­
dants. Thursday, September 26, at 6 pm. Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh School of Law, Teplitz 
Memorial Courtroom; 3900 Forbes Avenue, 
Oakland. Free admission, for more information 
and to make reservations, call 471-7852.
Carnegie Museum of Art Presents Nights 
Live Lectures and Gallery Talks Gallery talk. 
Meet at the Museum of Art Store. Playing 
Cards, Picnics & Promenades: Paintings of 
Americans at Leisure Beth Roark, assistant 
professor of art history, Chatham College. 
September 13 at 8 pm. For further information 
call (412) 688-8690.
NOTICES
Carnegie Mellon University’s Architecture 
Department will offer a 10 week course entitled 
“Architecture for Children,” September 21 to 
November 23. Class meets from 9:30 am to 11 
am on Saturdays. Taught by professional 
architects for students in grades 3 to 12. Explo­
ration of architectural topics, including basic 
design, building models and city planning. Cost 
is $150.00. Includes materials. Scholarships 
available for students with financial need. Class 
size limited. To register, or for more informa­
tion, call x8-1542.
SDC Buggy will be having its first meeting 
Tuesday at 9 pm in the Henderson Lounge. 
Henderson is located on the hill behind Scobell 
and Welsh. This meeting will provide new 
comers with an idea of what buggy is all about.
READINGS
BEEHIVE READING SERIES for Fall 1996. 
The Best Place to Hear Poetry. Septemberl2, 
Maurice Kilwein Guevara; September 19, 
Benefit Reading for P.O.W.E.R.., Buddy Nordan, 
Jan Beatty, Catherine Gammon; September 26, 
Jonathan Vital, Gwen Ebert; October 3, Ed 
Ochester, Micki Myers; October 10, Barbra 
Edelman, Linda McDonald; October 17, Lisa 
Glatt, Terrance Hayes; October 14, Bob Pajich, 
Brian Estadt; October 31, Eve Alexandra, Lisa 
Phillips; November 7, Denise Duhamel, David 
Newman; November 14, NO READING; Novem­
ber 21, Amy Yanity, Karen Themstrump; 
December 5, John Biggs, Mike Martin. All 
readings held upstais at the Beehive coffehouse, 
3807 Forbes Avenue. 8 pm, open mike; 8:30 pm, 
scheduled readers. For more information call 
441-2859 or email mk57@andrew.cmu.edu
MUSIC
River City Brass Band Opens 15th Anniver­
sary Season features a concert program of 
great marches entitled Marching Along, after 
the autobiography of John Philip Sousa. The 
program explores a variety of popular marches, 
including the college fight songs of the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, Penn State, and Carnegie
Mellon. Marching Along will also feature an 
appearance by In Voice, a Pittsburgh-based a 
cappella group of five young members. Spon­
sored in part by the Bayer corporation. Perfor­
mances: 8 pm on Saturday, Septemberl4 at 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland; 3 pm on 
Sunday, Septemberl5 at Baldwin High School 
in the South Hills; 8 pm on Thursday Septem­
ber^ at Gateway High School in Monroeville; 8 
pm on Friday, September 20 at Carson Middle 
School in the North Hills; 8 pm on Saturday, 
September 21 at the Palace Theatre in 
Greensburg; and 3 pm on Sunday, September
RELIGION
Catholic alumni Club of Pittsburgh sponsor­
ing the Eleventh Annual Charity Dance for 
Pittsburgh area singles. Proceeds benefit Cystic 
Fibrosis. Aproximately 300 people expected in 
attendance. Friday, September 20, 1996, 8:30 
pm to 1:30 am. Greentree Marriott, $13.00 
donation. For further information call 421-8381.
THEATRE
City Theatre Company, Inc. presents: 
Gargaro Productions’ “Schoolhouse Rock Live!” 
September 18 to October 6. Opening/Press 
Night: Wednesday, September 18, 8 pm. Per­
formance Days & Times: Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday at 8 pm; Saturday at 5:30 pm and 9 pm; 
Sunday at 2 pm. For more information contact 
Sara Durkacs, Heather Schumucker. Press 
(412) 431-4400; Box Office 431-CITY.
You can advertise for free in 
The Tartan! If you know of 
an event on or off campus 
that has relevance to the cam­
pus community, email 
tartan@andrew or mail it to 
The Tartan, box 17 in the 
¦ Carnegie Mellon University 
Cneter by the Wednesday 
before the event.
Vox Populi is a forum open to 
the entire campus commu­
nity! To submit a vox, simply 
email it to tartan@ andrew. 
cmu.edu, send it to The Tar­
tan, box 17 in the Student 
Center, or drop it in the Vox 
Populi drop box on the Tartan 
Server. Remember, a dia­
mond may last forever, but a 
Vox is dirt cheap!
¦1 'TH
HÉÉMSPBIBlSl
Cries and Whispers will play this Thursday at 
6, 8, 10 pm, and 12 am in DH 2210.
Mission Impossible will play this Friday at 
7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am at the McConomy 
Auditorium.
Top Gun will play this Saturday at 7 and 10 pm 
in McConomy Auditorium.
The Blob (1988) will play this Sunday at 6, 8,
10 pm, and 12 am in DH 2210
Pittsburgh International Lesbian and Gay 
Film Festival is proud to announce its 11th 
annual Film Festival October 3 through 13,
1996. Rex Theatre, 1602 East Carson Street, 
Oct.3 to October 10,1996 and at the Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers’ Melwood Screening Room, 477 
Melwood, October 11 to October 13, 1996.
Benefit Pittsburgh premiere of Stonewall at Rex 
Theatre at 8 pm and part at 9:30 pm at the City 
Theatre, 57 South 13th Street. $25 Admission 
get you to both. Portion of proceeds benefits 
Shepard Wellness Community. For more infor­
mation call (412) 232-3277. Or visit the website
© 1996 by Paramount Pictures Corporation
SORRY LUNCHBOX, 
YOU’RE THE 
UGLIEST 
MAN IN THE 
BRICKHOUSE... £
55arHEY >
ARON !
>oMSfft. .ERR......... me
o O
o
HEH, HEH, HEH OW K% HEH,HEH. HEH fcTO
Va' 5£
m
• F °" ££
OS' mm
*•* —» Z7 |UHEY |
KATV\MN,
AM I HALF *
WAY 
YET???
LET’S GOTARTANS!
THANK YOU EVERYONE FOR THE 
CAKE AND ICE DREAM! 
YOU GUYS ARE GREAT! :)
IS kceB 
where?!?!?!!?
Becky, I am not a 
beast girl you hippo!
Football our team will be playing Case West­
ern Reserve University at 1:30 pm on Saturday, 
September 14, at home.
