Red "Peace Offensive" 
Significant 
To United States” 
See Page Two
S 'n S President 
Explains 
Television Situation' 
See Page Four
VOL. 4&—No. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., APRIL 14, 195Î
Tartan Staff Elected 
At Annual Banquet
by Fred Sonnenberg
At the annual Tartan banquet last Thursday evening in the 
Carnegie Union, Richard Durstine, IM junior, was elected editor- 
in-chief of the campus newspaper. Jerome Seiner was elected to 
the position of business manager for the coming year.
Durstine is vice-president of4----------------------—--------------------------------------
Pi Kappa Alpha and a member 
of Tau Beta Pi, Pi Delta Epsilon 
and Delta Skull. He has served 
as managing editor and copy ed­
itor during the past two years.
A junior chemical engineer, 
Jerry Seiner will be handling the 
Tartan purse strings for the next 
year. He has served in the past 
as assistant business manager. An 
electrical engineer, Wilson Sick 
was made managing editor.
Two freshman Margaret Mor­
rison girls were elected to other 
editorial positions. Jo For­
sythe will be the news editor and 
Lin Smith, features editor. Sppho- 
more electrical engineer, Paul 
Carmichael, was chosen as the 
new personnel manager. Frank 
Fegley will continue as sports ed­
itor. A1 Susia was named copy 
editor.
Assisting Seiner on the business 
staff will be Stan Rosenberg as 
assistant business manager, Vic 
Shiry as advertising manager, and 
Don Gross as circulation manager.
The Tartan is still eager to re­
cruit additional help from the stu­
dent body since this new staff will 
remain in office until next April.
X-Ray
Students and personnel on 
Carnegie Tech's campus will 
be provided with the conve­
nience of having their chest 
X-rayed on campus as a part 
of the Allegheny County Pro­
gram of Chest X-rays. A mo­
bile unit will be on campus all 
day Wednesday, Thursday, 
and Friday, April 15, 16, and 
17. The chest X-ray which is 
given free of charge to all res­
idents of the county over 15 
years of age will detect tuber­
cular or other chest disorders.
Sororities Plan 
PanHellW orkshop; 
Will Be May 13
Plans are now being laid by 
campus sorority women for the 
PanHell Workshop on Wednesday, 
May 13. The purpose of the 
Workshop, as announced by chair­
man, Ruth Cooper, is to promote 
inter-sorority cooperation and aid 
the individual groups by suggest­
ing projects, etc.
The committee chairmen and 
topics to be discussed are as fol- 
lowsT Publicity and Public Rela­
tions for Cororities, Joan Lucien; 
Pan Hell’s Responsibilities to the 
Individual Sororities, Rita O’Hara; 
The Relationship Between College 
PanHell and the National Organ­
ization, Jane Buckley; Evaluation 
of the Revised Rushing System, 
Jeanne Corcoran; How To Keep a 
Girl Interested in Her Sorority, 
Bonnie Shields.
Alysann Bradburn is in charge 
of general arrangements.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup­
plies and equipment for the 
Spring semester, 1953, can not 
be honored by the Bookstore 
after May 9, 1953.
Scholarship
Three scholarships are to be 
awarded to present freshmen 
in the College of Engineering 
and Science by the Union 
Carbide Educational Fund. 
The successful applicants, if 
they maintain satisfactory rec­
ords, will hold these scholar­
ships for the next three years.
It is necessary that candi­
dates apply specifically for this 
scholarship. If you have al­
ready filed an application this 
spring for scholarship aid, go 
to the Dean of Men’s Office, 
150 AH, and ask to be consid­
ered for this scholarship. If 
you have not previously ap­
plied, you may do so by turn­
ing in an application not later 
than April 24, 1953.
All freshmen students in 
Engineering and Science not 
now holding full-tuition, four- 
year scholarships may apply.
Skibo Flying Club 
Acquires Airplane
Long weeks of planning and ef­
fort have finally paid off for the 
Skybo Flying Club, whose re­
cently acquired two-place Aeronca 
Chief is now completely ready for 
the warm months ahead. By join 
ing the Skybos those who have 
always wanted to fiy but feared 
the cost will be able to enjoy an 
hourly rate less than half the 
standard commercial fees.
Club President Duane Simpson 
also pointed out that the Skybos 
will continue to operate through­
out the summer in order that lo­
cal members will have the use of 
the plane. Because it takes less 
than ten hours to earn solo priv- 
[Continued on page 3]
Jenkins To Direct 
“Shoot The Works”
Throughout the last month while many on campus have been 
arguing the pros and cons of the TV question, the Scotch ’n Soda 
board has been putting the finishing touches on the “Shoot the
Works” script. ?---------------------------------------------------------— -
Carolyn Jenkins, graduate dra- 
mat, has been chosen as one of the 
directors for this year’s show.
Carolyn graduated from Wellesley 
last year where she was active in 
the college theater during her four 
years.
• During the summers of 1951 and 
52 she gained more theatrical ex­
perience with the New England 
Opera company and the Tangle- 
wood Opera company. “Jenks”, 
who hails from Concord, New 
Hampshire, has also served as ra­
dio technician for WNAC-TV.
In line with her Scotch ’n Soda 
work, she plans to direct in com­
munity or groiip theaters when she 
graduates. Among her hobbies are 
piusic, opera, and swimming.
Now that the staging of “Shoot 
the Works” is less than a month 
away, rehearsals are beginning to 
[Continued on page 3]
Printers’ Reunion To Be Held 
April 24 & 25; Many Expected
The annual alumni printing management seminar will be held 
April 24 and 25 on the Tech campus. One of the largest alumni 
groups in the history of the printing department is expected to re­
turn for the seminar. These alumni members, from 48 states and
*ten foreign countries, are em­
ployed in printing and related 
graphic arts industries.
The highlight of the seminar 
will be the annual banquet at Car­
negie inn, where awards including 
the Printing Honor prize and Ad­
vertising Production prize will be 
presented to students in the Car­
negie printing management de­
partment.
This year’s seminar is being 
conducted as a joint venture by 
the printing management depart­
ment uafcler Professor Kenneth R. 
Burchard, head of the department 
and by the Carnegie Tech printers 
alumni, with T. G. Bixler, presi­
dent of the alumni.
Program Chairman, _ Frank 
Sloan of Herbick and Held, Pitts­
burgh, has announced that this 
year’s pr'ogram will be .devoted 
to three major topics: Production 
Problems in.Printing, What’s New 
in the Graphic Arts, and Manage­
ment -Problems.
-Under Production Problems, top 
men in the fields of letterpress, off­
set and typesetting will discuss 
solutions for production bottle­
necks. The topic of What’s New 
in the Graphic Arts will cover 
subjects such as “ColQr Separa­
tions through Color Scanning,”Carolyn Jenkins
S ’n S Director
Appoint Hutchins 
Dean Of Women
Ex-Public Relations Consultant
Succeeds Dean Joan Schaefer
Mrs. Brahna C. Hutchins, former public relations con­
sultant, has been appointed the new Dean of Women, ef­
fective July 1, 1953. She succeeds Mrs. Joan Schaefer who 
resigned as Dean of Women in December, 1952. During the 
------------ ¦¦¦¦------------------------------------------?remaining months until Mrs. Hut­
chins assumes her duties, Mrs.
AVIT Brahna Hutchins
New Woman’s Dean
Annual Tartan 
Tournament Ends 
Debate Season
This Saturday, April 18, will 
climax the season for Carnegie’s 
debate club when they stage their 
third Annual Carnegie Tartan De­
bate Tournament. Information on 
the location of the debates can be 
obtained at the SIA auditorium 
on Saturday morning.
According to tourney chairman 
Jay Claster, an estimated 25 
schools from Pennsylvania, Ohio, 
New York, West Virginia, and the 
District of Columbia will compete 
for the Tartan trophy. The cup 
will be awarded at a banquet for 
all debaters Saturday evening.
Students and faculty interested 
in hearing the debate are urged to 
attend. The subject is, Resolved: 
That the Congress of the United 
States should enact a compulsory 
fair employment practices law.
Carnegie, coached by Richard 
Oswant of the English department, 
took second place in the State 
championship tournament at Le­
high, came out third in the Slip­
pery Rock tourney, and also turn­
ed in fine showings at the Brook­
lyn College contest and the dis­
trict eliminations for the West 
Point Invitational.
Nancy Dickinson has been acting 
as temporary Dean.
The new Dean, a native of Den­
ver, Colorado, was graduated cum 
laude from the University of Co­
lorado in 1926. The following year 
she became publicity assistant of 
the American Institute of the city 
of NeW York. In 1929 she joined 
the Swann Chemical corporation 
as assistant to the director of pub­
lic relations, and in 1931 she be­
came executive secretary and pub­
licity director of the Decorators 
club of New York. She became 
assistant executive director of 
publicity for the national consum­
er retailer council in 1937.
In 1940 she joined the publicity 
agency of Sheldon, Morse, Hut­
chins, and Easton, Incorporated as 
editorial director, became vice- 
president in 1945 and on the death 
of her husband, succeeded him as 
president in 1946. She resigned in 
1952 to become administrative co­
ordinator of ' the center for im­
proving group procedures, Teach­
ers College, Columbia University. 
She recently resigned as adminis­
trative coordinator and is now 
working towards a doctor’s degree 
at Columbia from which she re­
ceived a Masters degree in stu­
dent personnel administration in 
1952.
Mrs. Hutchins is currently serv­
ing as director of the New York 
chapter of the Public Relations So­
ciety of America for a three-year 
term. She has also been active 
on committees for fire gas research 
and fire protection education in 
elementary schools of the national 
fire protection association. In ad­
dition, she is a member of Kappa 
Delta Pi, honorary education fra­
ternity, and is past president of 
the industrial publicity associa­
tion.
“Improvements in Platemaking for 
Offset and Letter Press” and “New 
Developments in the Paper, Ink 
and Chemical Fields.” The Man­
agement Problems topic wiU fea­
ture talks on “Labor Looks at j 
Management,” “PIA Production 
tPARS in Cost Finding and Esti- ! 
mating” and “Selling I^Rnting in I' 
Today’s Market.”
Regional vice-presidents of the j 
alumni group include Henry F. I 
Brayer of Rochester, N. Y., *Wil- | 
liam M. Angus of Chicago, 111., I 
and William H. Egan of Dallas, 
Texas. -
Carnival Booths
Midway plots will be avail­
able during Carnival to all or­
ganizations wishing to run 
carnival booths. Plot rental is 
20, and 10x12 tents may be 
rented for $7.50. Games and 
prizes may be purchased from 
K^nn-Penn amusement com­
pany if needed. All profits will 
go to the organization run­
ning the booth.
If you would like to run a 
booth, please submit an ap­
plication to Richard Dicker­
son, Midway Chairman, Box 
361, CIT.
The letter of application, 
w’hich must be submitted by 
April 17, should include the 
following information: 1) Type 
of booth or exhibit; 2) Num­
ber of plots needed; 3) Wheth­
er or not a tent will be rented; 
4) Whether or not games will 
be rented or prizes bought 
from Kenn-Penn.
There will be a midway 
meeting at the Carnegie Un­
ion, room A, Sunday, April 19, 
2:00, at which time all organi­
zations will draw for positions 
on the cut.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 14, 1953
“Peace Offensive99 Offers 
Many Pitfalls To America
by Professor Hugo A. Meier
The mere promise of peace in Korea is quite enough today to 
electrify a war-weary world. But that same world has grown cau­
tious nevertheless about the sincerity of the new Soviet peace 
offensive now in the headlines.
That caution has several good bases. Although President Eisen­
hower advises that conciliatory gestures by the Communists should 
be accepted at face value until proved unworthy, there is strong 
suspicion that they may be part of a mere tactical shift in a poli­
tical system which can adjust its logic and its tactics to pressing 
needs without deviating essentially from long-range strategy. It 
may, indeed, be that the Malenkov regime actually desires co­
operation with the West, But why?
Must Consolidate Position
On this point, opinion varies greatly. Some feel that the Malenkov 
government may actually surrender the Leninist credo that “im­
perialist” states and Communist nations cannot permanently live 
peacefully together. But Stalin, in 1940, for example, admitted that 
a temporary collaboration with capitalist states was acceptable if 
such could prevent serious disadvantages which more rigid adher­
ence to a policy of antagonism might bring. That makes many ob­
servers suspect that the present conciliatory gestures are aimed at 
easing world tensions—for reasons that will benefit only Russia.
Malenkov, they say, needs more time to consolidate his position 
in Russia, to revamp Soviet war industry in the light of Korean 
experiences and American progress. Also, the mere talk of peace 
may prove enough to cause western powers to relax rearmament 
efforts and to soften psychologically during such a period of Russian 
consolidation. It could undermine American leadership of the non- 
Communist alliance by stimulating trade rivalries, weakening en­
thusiasm for NATO, and encouraging enthusiasm in presently weak­
ened foreign Communist movements.
Demands Could Be Dangerous
Thus, the significance of the “peace offensive” to American 
political and economic policy is very great. Everyone wants an end 
to the fighting in Korea. But will a new armistice prove merely 
to be another “talkathon”—while Communist forces build up their 
power? Government leaders know that ending of the war could 
greatly enhance Republican prestige at least temporarily. If it 
should prove a phony peace, however, the psychological reaction 
could be dangerous.
Demands for reduced military budgets and minimum draft quotas 
could leave the United States without adequate striking power in a 
world where physical strength seems to win the greatest respect.
Meanwhile, what of Communist-inspired tensions elsewhere in 
the world? What the Administration seeks is not only peace in 
Korea but a general pattern of settlement that will insure against 
repetition of Korea elsewhere and permit, at long last, full atten­
tion to the pressing problems of a domestic economy unbalanced by 
the unnatural stimulation of war.
YMCA To Offer 
European Tours 
This Summer
Have you an extra $610 and 47 
days? Then here is your chance 
to “tour western Europe with a 
party of congenial companions.” 
Three tours are being offered, at 
minimum cost, to YMCA members 
and other friends in the summer 
of 1953 by the New York city 
YMCA.
One tour party for older boys 
and girls and two others for men 
and women will be personally 
conducted by a YMCA secretary. 
The air tour, Yl, takes 34 days 
and an all-inclusive price of $915; 
tours Y2 and Y3 by boat require 
47 days and $610.
These tours are a new feature 
of the YMCA program of recrea­
tion, informal education and world 
friendship. All travel arrange­
ments will be made by the asso-
ciation for academic travel abroad 
and the individual tourists busi­
ness arrangements are directly 
with ATA.
All inquiries about any of the 
tours should be directed to: James 
L. Bethune, program director, 
New York city YMCA, 420 Lexing­
ton Ave., New York 17, N. Y.
Many Interesting 
Things To See 
Around The Town
What’s new here and there 
around the town and on campus? 
For theater-goers, “Payment De­
ferred,” a good old mystery thrill­
er, will run through May 9 at the 
Hamlet street playhouse.
* * *
“From Basin Street to Broadway 
Via the Ozarks,” a musical pot­
pourri, is to be presented at the 
Educational Center of YM and 
YWCA for six consecutive Thurs­
day evenings, beginning April 16 
at 8:15 p.m.* * *
On April 13 at 8:15, the Center 
will also sponsor a lecture by Ar­
thur Bevgholz on “Philosophies of 
Existance for Contemporary Man,” 
with a talk on Albert Schweitzer, 
philosopher, theologist and musi­
cian.* * *
Also at the Center will be a talk 
by a duel-lecturing team, Drs. 
Ralph and Lucy Zabarenko, hus­
band and wife, on “Hostility, Di­
vorce and Separation.” It is to be 
given on Tuesday, April 14 at 8:15 
p.m.* * *
The Foreign Film society of YM 
and YWCA in Oakland will pre­
sent a great French film drama 
“Maneges” (The Cheat) on April 
12 at 8:15 p.m. The film is a study 
of human relationships and will be 
given at the Oakland “Y”.* * *
On campus, the first lecture in 
the series “Reason and Its Evasion 
in Contemporary Philosophy” by 
Professor Marvin Farber was given 
yesterday, and the second, “Sub­
jectivism and the New Irration 
alism” will be given at 3:00 p.m. 
this afternoon in the SIA audi­
torium. The concluding lecture, 
also by Professor Farber, will be 
tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the audi­
torium. The topic is “Existence 
and Human Values.”* * *
Don’t forget — the Allegheny 
County Mobile Chest X-ray unit 
will be on campus April 15pl 6, and 
17. Look for location and hours 
on all bulletin boards.
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Syria Mosque 
Will Present 
6Madame Butterfly9
Puccini’s opera “Madame But­
terfly” will be presented as the 
fifth and final opera of the 1952-53 
season at the Syria Mosque on 
April 23 and 25 at 8:15 p.m.
Miss Irma Genzalez, famed so­
prano, will play Cio-Cio-San. Miss 
Genzalez is remembered for her 
interpretation Of the same role in 
a previous Pittsburgh perform- j 
ance.
William Horne, tenor, will play 
Pinkerton; Sharpless, Carlos Alex- j 
ander; Suzuki, Vivian Johns; Goro, | 
Henry Cordy; Yamadori, Andrew j 
Velis.
Leading artists of this district I 
will make up the supporting cast, j 
The production is directed by 
Richard Carp.
The Truth About Voodooisjn; 
Old Records Saved From Nazis
by Zook
With the beginning of World War II came the burning and 
sacking of that magnificent institution so dear to the heart of all 
students interested in the study of Newts, Herbs, and Salamanders. 
I refer, of course, to the destruction of Lower Gorgonzola Tech. 
To the few people who have not# 
studied the science of witchcraft
ON’SM’EX C’G R.CGF’EX don't get soar, but I cooed never love you,” said Sheedy’* 
li«le chickadee. "Your hair’s strictly for the birds! Better remember the tree 
cardinal rules for social success so you won’t be an also-wren. 1. Hop to a toilet 
goods counter. 2. Peck up a bottle or tube of Wildroot 
Cream-Oil, America’s Favorite Hair Tonic Contains Lanolin.
Non-alcholic. Grooms the hair. Relieves dryness. Removes 
goose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail Test.
3. Use it daily and peeple will love you.” Paul got Wildroot 
Cream-Oil for himself and a diamond wing for his tweetie- 
pie. Better buy a bottle or tube today. Or ask for it at your 
barber’s. If you don’t you’re cookool
if of 151 So. Harrts Hill Rd., Williamsvillt, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
and mumification the name Lower 
Gorgonzola Tech means nothing, 
so I shall elucidate somewhat on 
this great university.
This tremendous lyceum of Voo- 
dooism was located in the deep, 
dark recesses of Poland’s black 
swamps, and its teaching staff 
was composed of the finest ghouls, 
banshees, and krupps known to 
mankind. Its courses ranged any­
where from animal husbandry to 
Zulu spear fishing, and its library 
on amulets and charms was con­
sidered the finest in the world.
When the Germans overran Po­
land in 1939, Lower Gorgonzola 
Tech was spared for some strange 
reason. It was rumored that the 
German Army was frightened by 
the lavender gases which eminat- 
ed from the black waters in the 
universities moat. These gases 
smelled like Channel No. 5, tasted 
like Pepsi Cola, and had the kick" 
of a cheap two dollar whiskey. 
However, when Adolf Shickle- 
gruber’s mustache turned a bright 
orange aricb- his left ear lobe a 
shocking pink this apex of edu­
cation was ordered to be wiped
from the face of the earth. It later 
turned out that Herbert W. (the 
“W” stands for Were) Wolf, his 
miniature snails, and a brew con­
taining an assortment of toads, 
snake-eyes, bugs, and Fort Pitt 
beer caps had been responsible for 
the brightly colored Führer.
By a stroke of luck the school 
records and part of the library 
were saved and hidden in a de­
serted wine cellar in the tiny villa 
of Tuxedo Junction, Roumania. 
Here they were found by a Ser­
bian salt miner who had gone a 
little berkshire and refused to give 
up on his escape tunnel to Ameri­
ca. This author, by request of the 
known alumni of LGT, has been 
asked to bring to the public a re­
port on some of the more illustri­
ous students’ escapades, and, in 
some cases, ,the story of their 
lives.
So in the following weeks this 
column will be devoted to this 
task, and we humbly beg the pub­
lic to feed a one winged vampire 
seen floundering in Pittsburgh re­
cently. It’s Esmerelda, pride oi 
the Ancient Anagrams and Coffin 
Building department.
AVIATION’S MOST EXCITING 
ENGINEERING TEAM...OFFERS CAREER OPPORTUNITIES FOR GRADUATE ENGINEERS
Any graduate engineer seeking 
fascinating, long-range oppor­
tunities of more than average 
scope, will find that at Link 
Aviation, Inc., he will be work­
ing with a group of top-notch 
engineers in the design and 
building of complex electronic 
devices, destined to set a pattern 
in the field of jet aviation. De­
pending upon your interests and 
aptitudes, you may be assigned 
to jet engineering work on com­
puter components or systems, 
or in production planning, con­
trol, or plant engineering.
You may find a spot in sev­
eral of the major departments 
in general engineering, testing 
and adjustment, or production, 
where you will work as part of 
a team of electronic engineers.
For the man who prefers out­
side personal contact work in a 
highly technical field, excellent 
opportunities exist in our Field 
Service Department. In this 
phase of Link on-the-job train­
ing, the graduate engineer will 
undergo fonr months of special 
training before being assigned 
to an Air Force or Navy air 
installation.
During its quarter of a cen­
tury of progress, Link has be­
come known as the leader in the 
highly specialized electronic 
and electro-mechanical fields. 
In addition to the world-famous 
Link Trainer of World War II
and the new electronic wonders 
which simulate jet flight, Link 
produces flexible gunnery train­
ers, simulated search and inter« 
cept radar equipment, radar 
navigational equipment, and 
the latest in modern naviga* 
tional training—the High Alti­
tude Celestial Navigation Train­
er. Link is also doing extensive 
research and development work 
in the non-military fields of 
industrial electronic controls, 
scientific instruments, and elec­
tronic medical equipment.
The friendly, informal spirit 
that permeates the entire Link 
organization from President, 
Allan Williford, down, plus em­
ployee insurance, medical and 
vacation benefits, make Link 
the ideal spot for the graduate 
engineer to begin his career.
The Binghamton area where 
the Link plants are located, is 
well known for its diversified 
sports and social activities, in 
addition to good housing facil­
ities, hunting, fishing and water 
sports. 4
If yon, as a graduate engi­
neer, are interested in learn­
ing more about the career 
opportunities at Link, you 
may secure a booklet entitled
“A Link in your Future” 
by writing to:
Mgr. of Industrial Relations 
Link Aviation, Inc. 
Binghamton, N. Y.
7/1#?LItw,
’ FP’FM’UEX’EDT a
r d X-BINGHAMTON,
AGT M’M15N 
l- N8r6 F78,k8lr z8yy ns lr il0V 9,t30I lr
APRIL 22

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 14, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Paee •
HOW CAN THE/ 
TELL SO SOON?
HE OUST «gf? 
? MET HER if 
\ LAST NIGHT I À
On/yjrme, tvi//fell oi>oof-a neiv 
/oi/ef And on/y if me wif/\fe//o6oc/fa 
dgansfle! 75/ceyoi/rfrme...LCVE UNDYING' 
LOVE TILL THE 
END OF TIME! 
m WOW!
-for 30 days
for MILDNESS and 
7 FLAVOR! r-
Womfen Students 
Join The Navy; 
Good Conditions
The Navy is again accepting ap­
plications for ROC(W) training. ; 
Under this program college women ! 
in good standing in accredited col­
leges and universities enlist in the 
Naval Reserve, complete two six- 
weeks training courses given dur­
ing any two summers, and after 
obtaining their bachelor’s degree, 
are eligible to receive a commis­
sion in the Naval Reserve.
Those accepted will receive, in 
addition to housing, transportation, 
food, uniforms, medical care, and 
books, $99.37 per month for the 
first training period and $122.30 
per month for the second period.
For further information contact 
Miss Holmes, EH 206 Extension 
377, or the recruiting officer at the 
Old Post Office Building, EXpress 
1-2560.
William C. Smith 
Receives Award 
For Best Design
The Carnegie Press has awarded 
a $50 prize for the best book jacket 
design for its publication, Funda­
mental Research and Administra­
tion; Horizons and Problems. Re­
cipient of the award is William 
Cullen Smith, a senior iji the de­
partment of Painting and Design. 
He competed against 20 other stu­
dent entries.
The book is a compilation of 
round table discussions held at 
Carnegie by 12 of the nation’s fore­
most industry, research, and edu­
cation leaders at the time of the 
dedication of the graduate School 
of Industrial Administration. It 
deals with problems of securing 
more effective cooperation between 
business and professional school 
in pursuing research activities.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
by Lin Smith 
IT’S A BOID—NO A PIGEON
. . . Morewood girls have been 
arming themselves against raids 
recently. The pigeons of Pitts­
burgh have decended upon the 
dorm with a flurry of flapping 
wings and an eye for an open 
window. One lass awoke to find 
two perched upon her bed. The 
girls have put in a request for 
screens for the windows or diapers 
for the villans.'
THE CASE OF THE CLOTHES­
LINE . . . “What is this I behold 
before my eyes,” said the house 
mother, as she walked into the 
laundry room in Morewood where 
the dripping BVD’s caused her to 
take a mental note that no more 
men’s clothes would be washed in 
the dorm.
DEFINITION OF SPRING . 
When a young dramat’s fancy 
lightly turns to thoughts of fenc­
ing on fine arts lawn.
GOOF OF THE YEAR . . . Then 
there is the dean of women at a 
large co-educational college who 
recently began an important an­
nouncement to the student body as 
follows: “The president and I have 
decided to stop necking on the 
campus.”
OODLES OF ODORS . . . Chem. 
engineer (leaving qualt. lab): 
“What’s that strange odor?” 
Maggie Murph: “Fresh air.” 
HOW TO TORTURE A DRA- 
MAT . . . High school students at 
recent performances of Henry IV 
came equipped with water pistols. 
When the water supply was ex­
hausted, they resorted to pitching 
pennies to the performers. Water, 
water everywhere.
BLEEDING A CAMPUS DRY 
... It is not enough that they want 
our tuition money and brains— 
now they are taking our blood.
But seriously, many thanks 
should go to those who have con­
tributed to such a wonderful cause.
Buhl Planetarium 
Opens Sky Drama 
Of Seven Wonders
Opening April 6 at the Buhl 
Planetarium will be a completely 
new type of sky drama, “Gadgets 
That Shook the World,” based on 
seven wonders of science that 
have revolutionized . our way of 
life. Special visual and sound ef­
fects will dramatize these seven 
wonders of science, from the time 
of their discovery, to the role they 
will play in the fantastic world 
the future.
Selected for this presentaion 
outstanding among the innumera­
ble inventions that have contrib­
uted to the progress of 
are the telescope, leading to 
eventual discoveries of s p a c 
secrets the spectroscope, 
ing the nature and composition of 
stars; the camera, recording a
wealth of information invisible to 
the human eye; radio and
vision, for planetary and inter­
planetary communications; and 
finally, the rocket and atomic 
bomb, man’s most recent steps in 
the world of the future.
Sky show performances are at 
2:15 and 8:30 p.m. daily and 3:15 
and 8:30 p.m. on Sundays.
S’nS-
[Continued from page 1] 
get into full swing. All persons 
in the cast are again urged to keep 
a closeNeye on the Skibo bulletin 
board.
Students who signed up for one 
of the many crews and have not 
received a reply—or who failed to 
sign and still have the desire— 
should also watch the Skibo bul­
letin board.
Flying Club—
[Continued from page 1]
ileges many who did not have the 
time to fly during the school year 
are invited to join now in order 
to fly during their summer vaca­
tion.
It may be reassuring to learn 
that all of the flying is covered by 
a policy so comprehensive that a 
power dive into an orphanage will 
be of no financial concern. In ad­
dition to their aerial activities the 
Skybos also screen a CAA film 
each Tuesday at 11:30 in PH 104 
to which all are invited.
Patronize Our 
Advertisers
Your ’TRT CARD Means15% off
M’A5 SYUB
• Watch Repairs
• Lighters • Gifts
• Watches • Jewelry
• Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
NEWLY ESTABLISHED
Surgical Steel Implement Firm
(SUBSIDIARY OF OLD NATIONALLY-KNOWN ORGANIZATION)
UB5E’EeS vUG S’g A5E FER v’P5 hUA5E 
MU v’NN aoE’UG 5g5DoM’P5 BUS’M’UES
COMMISSIONS - OVER-RIDES - BONUSES - SALARIES
FROM WfXmmm MU WHXmmm FOR PART-TIME 
JUNIOR EXECUTIVES
PART-TIME TRAINEES CONSIDERED
Call MA 1-8167, Mr. Skarzynski
(Qnfy lime willlèll.
7 BEAUTIFUL... 
HE/, THAT WAS \ AND INTELLIGENT/ 
SOME BEAUTIFUL J BROTHER./ THIS 
DOLL X SAW y 7 TIME It'S LCVe!
MY5G5 AoSM C5 F G5FSUE hYL Camel is 
America’s most popular cigarette—lead­
ing all other brands by billions! Camels 
have the two things smokers want most 
—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness 
... pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 
days and see how mild, how flavorful, 
how thoroughly enjoyable they are as 
your steady smoke!
MORE PEOPLE SM0KECAMELSthan anvother ci9a,elle

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 14, 1953
Editorial”
Scot and KofH
»
The most recent issue of our sister pub­
lication, the semi-occasional Scot, contained 
an article which needs some comment and 
analysis. So we shall consider briefly this 
oasis in the midst of the Scot’s “unsullied 
iiumor.”
The editorial, presented under the name 
'That Campus Witch Hunt” was a lament 
it the loss of the King of Hearts campaign,
Afhich went the way of all flesh earlier this 
rear.
First of all, says the Scot, the reason for 
the abandonment of King of Hearts is that it 
was “too much time and trouble to justify 
the few moments of dubious glory which the 
winner enjoyed.” From this came the gen­
eralization that nothing is considered worth 
doing unless it can be set down in “black and 
white.” The Scot concludes, “Things which are 
worth doing simply for the sake of doing, 
seemingly have no place here.”
While the above might be part of the 
consideration made when abandoning this 
activity, we should like to also point out that 
each week is endowed with only 168 hours, 
of which a goodly number are taken up
eating, sleeping, and going to class or decid­
ing not to. There are a lot of things well 
worth doing just for the pleasure that are never done just 
for the lack of time. Just about every student has some pet 
project he would like to do if he had a chance, whether it 
is to read all of Spillane or to bowl 300. And these pleasures
are given up purely for reasons of time, not because of dol­
lars and cents or black and white.
Then the Scot comes to that last resort of all Carnegie 
journalists, school spirit. (When an editor is at a loss for some­
thing to write about, or wants to make some vague point, he 
brings up school spirit.) King of Hearts, says the Scot, was a 
part of school spirit, and it has been snatched from us.
Woe, Woe.
Which brings us to the basic question of whether or not 
we can have our cake and eat it too. When a student is try­
ing to do his schoolwork in even the most half-hearted 
manner, to eat at least once a day, sleep some, and dis­
charge his duties to one or more campus activities (one at 
least, since the primary affectees of King of Hearts are fra­
ternity members), something has to give way some place.
Maybe as the Scot says, we are “getting simpler and 
easier,” but maybe also those who favored abandoning the 
yearly male sex appeal contest decided they had something 
better to do with their time; better not in terms of dollars 
and cents, but just in terms of good old fun, which the Scot 
is all for, if we understand it correctly.
Perhaps the wrong thing was abandoned. Perhaps 8:30 classes 
or evenings at local amusement places or membership in the 
Carnegie yo-yo club should be sacrificed instead. That is the 
1 decision of the individual.
But apparently many individuals decided to sacrifice 
King of Hearts. If the decision was wrong, let it be changed 
next* year, as the Scot has asked. But let’s not blame the 
abandonment of the affair on materialism, lack of school 
spirit, or any other familiar bugaboos which serve to hide 
in whole or in part facts behind the case.
ch*
"KING OF HEARTS NEEDS YOU"
Luring Students f rom their Chores
Letters”
CIT Isolationism
Editor, the Tartan:
Your editorial on “CIT Cultural Center” re­
flected the current isolationism at Tech by failing 
to mention the CIT International Club. In case 
you too have not noticed the posters of our weekly 
meetings, I should start by saying that this club 
meets between 12:30 and 1:30 p.m. every Tues­
day for a combined lunch and talk at the beau­
tiful, quiet Morewood Gardens Cafeteria. There 
are students from more than 17 nations at Tech, 
and this would be an ideal way of meeting them 
and of enabling them to meet more of you Amer­
icans. Unfortunately, there are seldom more than 
a few American students who attend these meet­
ings, or our picnics and parties, which is sad to 
reflect upon when one considers how vital is 
America’s part in world affairs, especially that of 
scientists and engineers in raising living standards 
in the fight against Communists.
We wonder why there is such a lack of attend­
ance by American students? Are they narrow­
minded isolationists of has Senator McCarthy so 
terrorized them that they dare not be seen with 
any foreign student? Russians are pitied for not 
having the freedom to associate with foreigners, 
yet the same thing seems to be happening right 
here.
We have been told that the girls do not want 
to meet foreign students because these are not 
eligible for marriage in the college marriage mar­
ket. If so, we can only pity them for being like 
harem wives since they enslave themselves to one 
person at their most free and impressionable age, 
when they have a unique opportunity to meet all 
kinds of persons and having fun learning about 
other peoples at first hand.
As for the boys, they seem to be over-conscious 
of the superiority of American material wealth 
and technical know-how. May I point out that in 
all countries far more importance is attached to 
human know-how. Material wealth or industrial 
might is no criterion of civilization. The true 
measure of civilized beings is their character, their
Open letter”
A Final Word
Open letter to the Student Body of Carnegie Tech:
I am writing this letter to clarify certain is­
sues that were brought out during the recent dis­
pute of the decision not to allow the Scotch and 
Soda Club’s production to be televised this year.
The show definitely will not be televised this 
year. Most of the objections raised when the or­
iginal decision was made have been ironed-out 
and the way is clear to reconsider anew a contract 
to televise next year’s show. This last statement 
carries with it many hours of discussion during 
the past two weeks on the part of the Adminis­
tration and the Scotch and Soda club. This whole 
issue has been a very complicated one and it 
would be too difficult to give the details here. I 
can just say that as far as the Scotch and Soda 
club is concerned—the wisest course of action has 
been followed. However, we can take out of this 
the satisfaction that the way is clear for recon­
sideration next year. This, I would like to add, 
was due in a large measure to the interest and 
support of the student body.
Further, I wish to defend Mr. Henry Boett­
cher’s position in this whole issue. I don’t feel that 
it is fair to put him, or anyone else, “on the block’* 
for giving his opinions— which is everyone’s right. 
There are many others who harbor objections to 
the activities of the Scotch and Soda club. It isn’t 
fair to make one person the brunt of an attack 
because he is the only one, of many with similiar 
opinions, who has been given the opportunity to 
voice his ideas. Also, Mr. Bottcher has been co­
operative with us this year as far as allowing his 
students, who are free, appear in the show. He 
is more than willing to help our production as 
long as it doesn’t interfere with the activities ot 
the drama department—which is as it should be.
The Tartan stated last week that the club needs 
a faculty advisor—this is not true. Alfred Lehman, 
an instructor in the drama department, has held the 
position for the past two years and has been active 
in the planning of the productions.
In closing, I would like to thank the members 
of the Administration and the drama department 
faculty who have been helpful in the clarification 
of this issue and the Student Council and the stu­
dent body for their interest and support.
Sincerely yours,
Gerald L. Adler,
President, Scotch and Soda Club.
kindliness and hospitality. I know that most 
Americans have all this in full, but they should 
go a little out of their way to demonstrate it. Per­
haps they should try to imagine themselves alone 
in a foreign country and think of what they would 
appreciate in such a situation. Meeting foreign 
students would help remove the barriers to inter­
national-understanding which arise from ignorance 
and lack of experience.
The Carnegie Plan encourages the all-around 
development of students. To be familiar with the 
world outside the States is an essential part of such 
an education, yet the world of most students here 
appears to be bounded within the walls of their 
classrooms, their bedrooms and Skibo. Their 
thoughts are uncritically oriented by the mis­
chievous misrepresentations of the newspapers, 
which publish only the exaggerated accounts of 
events that can be blown up into sensational head­
lines. It is as if the States were represented abroad 
only in terms of gangsters, sharecroppers, poor 
negroes and dope peddlers.
I hope that this letter may skake up and in­
duce some of the Tech students to come to our 
Tuesday lunch meetings at Morewood Gardens an<J 
give us the pleasure of talking with them. Despite 
our faulty accents our minds work towards a better 
understanding of this great nation.
A Foreign Student.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. TELEPHONE: 
SChenley 1-4557; after hours SChenley 1-9846; for advertising and subscriptions 
HAzel 1-5360. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and ex­
amination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 
13, Pa.
Editor-ia-Chief ............................................................................................................ DU* Durstine
Business Manager ......................................................................................................... JerTy Seiner
Managing Editor ........................................................................................................... Wilson Sick
News Editor ................................................................................................................... Jo Forsythe
Sport« Editor  .................................................................. .......... ............... Frank Fegley
Personnel Manager ..................................................................'........................... Paul Carmichael
Eeatare« Editor—Lin Srpith. Copy Editor—A1 Susia. Advertising Manager—Vic 
Shiry. Assistant Kusiness Manager—Stan Rosenberg. Cireulation Manager—Don 
Gross. Phto»raphy Editor—Martin Sftyderman. Assistant Sports Editor—Ted Reuther. 
¦ «porters—Joan Cummerton, Jane Suhder, Marilyn Seiner, Bill Minkler, June Socha- 
toff, Pat Maue, Mollie Rudy, Sally Clark, George Barnes. Bob Livingston. Car­
men Villella. Sports Reporter«—Edward Feigenbaum Jack Alexander, Dick Eppler, 
Jim Gore. Art Staff—Carolyn Copp. Photographer«—Barbara Toia. Don Hand, My­
ron Lewis. Dick Wolfe- Features Staff—Andy Stedry. Judy Storch. Typist—Elfine 
Nord. Headline Staff—Van Andersen, Pat Naugle Dan Byers. Make-up Staff— 
Ellroy Wildhaber, Don Wildinan, Bill Hurley. Advertising Staff—Ronald Green-
* aid. Mimi Stern. Joan Newman. Circulation Staff—Ralph Antonito.
Rí-presentéd tor national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., 
College Publishers Representative. 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription 
*r,10 per year.
Entered as second class matter "on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pitt.-burjfh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879 Accepted for mailing at »pecialrate of postage provided for in the Act of FebriAry 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press, Intercollegiate Pi«ss.
WRCT Presents Week 
Of Classical Programs
WRCT, is presenting, beginning 
April 12 a full wek of programs 
devoted exclusively to serious 
music. Realizing for some time the 
interest in serious music, extend­
ing on the campus, the program 
department of WRCT has arranged 
and scheduled a series of programs 
devoted to the discussion and 
presentation of both classical and 
modern serious music.
There will be programs featur­
ing some of the most famous arias, 
duets, etc., from the grfat operas 
of the world. In addition, there 
will be many other short suites, 
sonatas, etc., played during the
April 12 to 18.
• Record manager Ted Hatch in­
forms us that the record library 
contains some 80 long playing rec­
ords covering much of the great 
music produced in our long music­
al heritage, and .the production 
and program departments-’ assure 
us that Good Music Week will be 
a week ‘for long-hair fans to re­
member for some time to come. 
As usual, WRCT will provide at 
all -time the latest and most com­
prehensive news of the world.
The week’s schedule follows;
Tuesday, April 14
6:00—Lucky Sirike News
6:15—Your Navy ShowWRCT “Good Music Week” from ¡ 6:30—Dinner Music
7:00—Music for Study 8:00—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
9:00—News Headlines with Lacey 
10:00—Dream Time 
11:00—Sports Round-up 
Ill’S—Final Edition 
11:30—Sign Off
Wednesday, April 15
6:00—Lucky Strike News 
6:15—Guest. Star 
6:30—Dinner Music 
7:00—Victor Opera Hour 
10:00—Musical Miscellany 
11:00—Sports Round-up 
11:15—Final Edition 
11:30—Sign Off
Thursday, April 16
6:00—Lucky Strike News 
6:15—Proudly We Hail 
6:45—Dinner Music 
7:00—Masterworks from France 
7:30—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
8:00—Gilbert and Sullivan Hour 
10:00—Lacey 
11:00—Sports and M 
11:15—Final Edition 
11:30—Sign Off
Friday, April 11
6:00—Lucky Strike New.**
6:15—Paris Star Time 
6:45—Dinner Music 
7 :QO»-Music Extraordinary 
9:00—RCA Victor Red Seal Hour 
10:00—Dream Time 
11:00—Sports Round-up 
11.15—Final Edition 
11:30—Sign Off

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 14, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 9
Play Day Set 
For Saturday
Tech W AA Hostess 
To 13 Local Colleges
Women’s Athletic Association of 
Carnegie Tech will be hostess to 
women students from 13 area col­
leges on Saturday, April 18. The 
unusual event will be a Sportsday 
to which all women students on 
campus are invited. Other stu­
dents participating will be from 
PCW, Pitt, Duquesne, Thiel, Grove 
City, Geneva, Westminster, Beth­
any, Allegheny, Indiana, Califor­
nia, Edinboro, and Slippery Rock.
The curtain for the play “By the 
Sweat of Your Brow” will go up 
at 10:00 a.m. with luncheon served 
during intermission. The acts in 
the play day include softball, bas­
ketball, volleyball, tennis, bad­
minton, pingpong, deck-tennis, and 
swimming. A trophy will be 
awarded to the winning team. 
Registration will be held in the 
Women’s Gym.
Bea Cohen is general chairman 
of the play day.
Small Pigskin Toters 
“Show Unusual Spirit
by Jim Gore
Carnegie Tech’s Skibo Bowl has been taken over by some 40 
Techites who hope to make starting positions on the 1953 football 
«quad; thus the 20 days of spring practice have moved into the ex­
periment and scrimmage stage. ? :
In the short time that the boys
— Coming Events —
Carnegie Tech will open its 
Tennis season on April 25 with 
Duquesne ^University visiting the 
Tartan courts. On April 27, the 
Geneva Covanenters will invade 
the Pittsburgh Field Club for a 
match with the Scot linksmen.
have been working out, there have 
been several major changes among 
the returning lettermen. Eddie 
Miller, Homestead sophomore, has 
been moved over to left-half from 
his position as starting quarter­
back. He takes the position left 
vacant by Irv Schecter and Byron 
Eisaman; Guy Carricato will move 
up tr the first string play-caller 
job. Roy DeVries, who saw action 
from the halfback slot last fall, 
will be working out as fullback. A 
Tartan varsity basketeer, Phil 
Jeske, who was All State quarter­
back for Ferguson Missouri high, 
shows good promise so far and will 
probably nail down second team 
quarter-spot behind the more ex­
perienced Carricato.
June graduation or scholastic 
ineligibility has made its mark 
upon the survivors of the ’52 team. 
Good replacements will be needed 
in the line especially where the 
graduation gimmick has taken its 
greatest toll. However, Coach Ed­
die Baker has noticed a remarkable 
spirit in the lads that have turned 
out for the workouts. He says that 
it is something that hasn’t been 
too prevalent for the past couple 
of seasons.
Before the practice is concluded 
the squad will play several spring 
practice games although neither 
the opponents nor the dates have 
been decided yet.
Tartans Defeat 
Jeannette, 72i-58z 
In First Meet
Coach Guy Halferty’s thinclads 
started the 1953 season off with a 
721,4-581/£ victory over a small 
Jeannette squad last Saturday in 
the Tartan Bowl in a practice 
meet.
Captain Bob Caiman set a new j 
track record of 10:00 in the two 
mile; however, he placed second 
behind Horner of Jeannette in the 
mile. Horner also won the half 
mile. Sophomore Chuck Bell won 
the 220 for Tech, and placed sec­
ond in the 100 while Bill Wills 
copped the 440 in 52.5.
Arthurs of Jeannette won both 
the shot and discuss, while Chuck 
Bateman took time out from 
Shakespeare to take second in the 
javelin.
Lively Arrow Sports Shirts 
Add “Local Color** To Campus
Look for a highly-colored style picture this season-— 
thanks to the new crop of Arrow sports shirts. Smart 
solids in rayon gabardine, checks ana plaids in “Sanfor­
ized” cotton and other fabrics, will be seen on campus 
from coast to coast. Available at all Arrow dealers.
ARROW
SY’GMS 4 M’DS 4 oER5Gh5FG 4 YFERc5GDY’5vS 4 SBUGMS SY’GMS ”
ROY VERNER BEESE
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
N5UEFGR S A5EpS SYUB
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
Serving Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
Virginia and West Virginia from
F7sT at Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-180«
Not This Time 
Ed Puchey, Tech center, goes up and spikes one only to have it 
blocked by a Wash-Jeff foe. Backing him up are Ed Possesky and 
Kaye Thomson.
Tartans Take Second Place In 
Tri-State Volleyball Tourney
Openings are available for graduating and graduate 
students in all branches of engineering (AE, CE, EE, 
ME and related fields) and for physicists and mathe­
maticians with advanced degrees. Fields of activity 
include DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT, RESEARCH, 
TOOLING and PRODUCTION. Choice of locations: 
Seattle, Washington, or Wichita, Kansas.
Details of openings, nature of assignments, com­
pany projecta, etc., will be explained at time of 
individual interviews.
These are excellent opportunities with one of the 
country’s leading engineering organizations— 
designers and. builders of the B-47 and B-52 jet 
bombers, America’s first-announced jet transport and 
guided missiles.
vl- ’rw878w0,y F33l8rktsrk Dlrk,9k Ll7V
BNFD5A5EM Uvv’D5
Netmen End Season By Losing First Major 
Tournament Since Their Formation Last Year
tet.
Possesky was selected to the all 
tournament team.
Carnegie Tech finished runners-up in the second annual Tri- 
State invitational volleyball tournament held at the Pitt field house 
last Saturday. The defending champion Tartans coupled a nine 
and three record in round robin play to take a back seat to the host
Pittsburgh squad in the seven#--------—-----------------------------------------------------
team meet.
Tech ran through St. Francis 
15-4, 15-1; Duquesne 15-0, 15-0; 
and Washington and Jefferson 
14-11, only to split verdicts with 
Slippery Rock 15-4, 14-12; Cali­
fornia Teachers 12-10, 10-12; and 
Pittsburgh 9-11, 15-7.
In the lineup for the Tartans 
were Ed Possesky, Ed Puchy,
George Biishey, Kaye Thompson,
Frank Fegley, Jack Hoover,
George Thomas, Bill Boney, Jack 
Alexander, and Roger Cunning­
ham. Earl Birdy coached the sex-
Volleyball
Standings
Team 
Pitt
Carnegie Tech 
California 
Slippery Rock 
Wash and Jeff 
St. Francis 
Duquesne
PERSONAL INTERVIEWS
will be held on CAMPUS
APRIL 20 and 21
byBOEING AIRPLANE COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

______ HI INUMI AND JUItrUNf C*W>««AT»ONFai Re HI LD /fima/tPü/íóum
YFe5GSMUhEX AFGLNFER
Rockets9 ATO Dominate Selections «y 
Hunt and Kolar Receive MVP Aivard
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for 
advancement, and an excellent starting salary await you at 
AtheanhulT if you are one of the men we are looking for. 
We have openings right now for qualified engineers and 
designers in all phases of aircraft engineering; we need 
top-notch men to help us in our long-range military 
program: turning out the famous C-119 Flying Boxcars 
and other projects for the U. S. Air Force.
Atheanhul provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
li,e insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week 
as a base. Premium is paid when longer work week is 
scheduled.
The ’53Intramural 
II Star Cagers
GRADUATE ENGINEERS
An invitation to go places
in
F5GUEFoM’DFN 4 A5DYFE’DFN 4 5N5DMGUE’D 
SMGoDMoGFN BGURoDM’UE
ENGINEERING
Fase 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday,
The All Star Basketball Team
Members of the all star intramural basketball team selected by the intramural panel are, stand­
ing, Larry Settle, Gene O’Reilly, Jack Kane, Jim Miller, Bob Duffus, Chet Kolar, and kneeling, Bob 
Cowan, Frank Fegley, Jim Hunt, and A1 Anaya. Dick Dick is missing from the picture.
— Coming Events —
The Tartan track team will open 
their season at Cleveland, Ohio, 
this Saturday against Case. Their 
first home meet will be April 28 
against Geneva.
All-School Basketball Team
First Team Position Second Team
Jim Hunt, Rockets ...........Forward......................Frank Fegley, BTP
Jack Kane, BTP .......... Forward......................Cowan, Duffus, ATO
Jim Miller, ATO.................. Center......................Larry Settle, PiKA
Chet Kolar, Rockets .......... Guard......................Dick Dick, Obelisks
Gene O’Reilly, DU.............. Guard......................A1 Anaya, Rockets
The champion Rockets and runnerup Alpha Tau Omega squads 
dominated the 1953 intramural all star team, each placing three 
on the 11-man contingent. Jim Hunt, Chet Kolar and “Speedie” 
represented the Rockets, while Jim Miller, Bob Duffus, and 
Cowan were named from Al-^"
Tau Omega. Hunt, Kolar and 
were on the first team. 
Duffus and Cowan were tied in 
the balloting for a forward slot on 
the second team, and as a de­
cision was unable to be made on 
whom to select, both were named, 
thus forming a six-man team. / 
Kane and O’Reilly 
Jack Kane and Gene “Buckshot” 
O’Reilly of league championship 
Beta Theta Pi and Delta Upsilon 
squads rounded out the first team 
selections. Both men qualified as 
top flight rebounders • and profi­
cient scorers. Kane was put in a 
forward berth, and O’Reilly a 
guard.
Most Valuable Players 
A tie again resulted in the bal­
loting for the most valuable player 
award. Chet Kolar and Jim Hunt, 
both Rockets, were named. Kolar 
has been a consistent player all 
year besides being the league’s 
leading rebounder. Only a fresh­
man, Chet may be a valuable as­
set to the varsity in the future. He 
stands six foot one inch tall.
Team captain, Jim Hunt, was 
the leading scorer on the cham­
pionship team. He was the play- 
maker and clutch player. Only 
six foot tall, he was also one of 
the best rebounders.
The school’s leading scorers, 
Larry Settle, Pi Kappa Alpha, and 
Frank Fegley, Beta Theta Pi, were 
selected on the second team along 
with Dick Dick of the Obelisks, 
Anaya, Duffus and Cowan.
The selections were made by the 
intramural panel consisting of
the intramural board, manager’s 
club, Tartan sports staffff, and 
faculty supervisors.
In addition to the all school 
squad, all star teams were picked 
in each of the four leagues.
All-Star Teams 
By Leagues
» American League 
F Fegley, Beta Theta Pi 
F Gillette, Bagdad A. C.
C Settle, Pi Kappa Alpha 
G Kane, Beta Theta Pi 
G Cunningham, Bagdad A. C.
National League 
r Hunt, Rockets 
F Duffus, Cowan, ATO 
C Miller, Alpha Tau Omega 
G Kolar, Rockets 
G Anaya, Rockets
Federal League < I
F Puchy, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
F Minert, Obelisks 
C O’Reilly, Delta Upsilon 
G Dick, Obelisks 
G Branscombe, Delta Upsilon
Republican League 
F Carter, Kappa Sigma 
F Whan, Graduates 
C Blank, Newman Club 
G Shecter, Kappa Sigma 
G Ginetti, Phi Kappa »
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisern
Intramural Roundup
Soccer Competition Underway 
Softball To Begin On Monday
Rifle Club
On Wednesday, April 15, at 
4:30 p.m. at the rifle range in 
Margaret Morrison, there will 
be an important meeting. 
Election of officers will be held 
for the coming year. All pres­
ent members and any students 
in joining the club
AlVs BOUNCE to the U0r9s
by Jack Alexander
The present inactivity in the intramural program is merely the j 
calm before the storm of spring sports. Soccer play is scheduled to 
begin today while softball starts next Monday.
The field of 13 entries in the 
ment appears to be one of the 
most formidable of recent years. j 
Pi Kappa Alpha, Citcom and the 
Obelisks appear to have the i 
strongest teams while Sigma Nu, |
Delta Tau Delta, and Pi Kappa 
Alpha assume the most favorable 
positions by drawing first round 
byes.
In an effort to avoid conflict j 
with final exams, the softball play 
will start a week fearly and a large 
field is expected to enter into the 
competition.
Swimming
By placing first in every event 
in the recent swimming meet, Pi 
Kappa Alpha swam away with 
this year’s title. An amazing to­
tal of 54 points were amassed by 
Pi Kappa Alpha while their near­
est competitor Beta Sigma Rho 
got 22.5.
Foul Shooting
Led by the accurate shooting of 
Dale Kirkbride, Pi Kappa Alpha 
won the foul shooting title with 
a total of 395 shots out of a pos­
sible 500. Second place was oc- j 
cupied by the Obelisks with 378. j 
Kirkbride and Bernstein tied for 
individual honors with 84 out of a ! 
possible 100.
Horseshoes
In the finals of the horseshoe 
tournament, Pete Pandick and Don j 
Woods won the championship by 
taking a three-way playoff from 
Wojtas and Holmes, and Schriver i 
and Pongo.
Softball
Intramural softball wilt” begin 
next Monday, April 20, with 
twenty-four teams striving for the 
school crown. Conspicuous among 
the field of entries are the Beta 
Sigma Rho, Kappa Sigma and 
ASCE nines, each of whom won 
league crowns last year and have 
almost ail of their squads intact. 
Games will be played in the bowl, 
on the cut, and on the soccer field 
behind the barracks.
Sensational New Advance 
in Golf Clubs
They will do more to save you strokes than 
any clubs you ever played.
tJsing an entirely new and exclusive scientific 
formula, Spalding creates these clubs with 
centers of gravity in absolutely coordinated sequence. Every 
wood, every iron, has identical Contact feel . . . gives you 
amazing ease of shot control!
You make tough shots look easy. Your timing is unifonn. 
You get the ball away straighter. You shoot for the pin in­
stead of the green. You get lower scores, consistently.
Sll il0V S3,yw8rK wW,ylV lV Kly- 3Vl-sII8lr,yT
Every club has identical 
contact feel...amazing 
ease of shot control

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 14, 1953—CARNEGIE TARTAN Page t
Are you
eV,w0,ksI -Vlt 321 FtsV89,r 9lyysKsI 
end 0r87sVI8k8sI h,7s I3srk khs8V hlrsiW 
tllr ,k FtsV89,pI 0r8q0» h,7sr sx9y0­
I87syi -lV rszyizswIX ,rw -l0rw khs 
3sV-s9k Ik,Vk -lV t,VV8sw y8-sT Cs,0k8-0y 
9lkk,KsI 8r 9lt3ysks Is9y0I8lr TTT zlr­
wsV-0y ts,yI TTT ys8I0Vsyi ,ktlI3hsVsX 
,rw khs 9lt3,ri l- K,i il0rK 3sl3ys 
z8kh I8t8y,V k,IksI ,rw n,96KVl0rwIT 
Asrk8lr w,ksI ,rw zspyy Isrw l0V hsy3­
-0y MYG55 YUE5LAUUE BNFEST
The Farm on the Hill
Swiftwater 97, Pa.
G5EM F MLB5hG’M5G
»4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
MLB5hG’M5GS SUU.SU
All Kind* u Lew u
American Typewriter Co.
11 hllw SkT (F 1T1m19
Dsr7sr8st 3XV68tPhp 1 Xh’1
,rw NoDc’ 
MFSM5 C5MM5G
Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoyment 
And you get enjoyment only from the taste of a 
cigarette.
Luckies taste better—cleaner, fresher, smoother! 
Why? Luckies are made better to taste better, 
what’s more, Luckies are made of fine 
L.S./M.F.T—Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco 
So, for the thing you want most in a cigarette .. 
for better taste—for the cleaner, fresher, smoother 
taste of Lucky Strike...
Be Happy-GO LUCKY!
Ysy3 h,rksw:
Buhl Planetarium will em­
ploy students for afternoon 
and evening work. Appli­
cants must have schedules 
that will permit them to re­
port at 1:00 p.m. at least 
two afternoons a week. Sat­
urday and Sunday work 
available. Call Mr. Lyon at 
FAirfax 1-4300.
vlV khs C5SM
Photographic 
Equ:pment and SuppliesLiberty
PhotoSupply
1.HfH7 . . f3H hllw SkT
Evening Student CouncilRa^ Schnalm IsElected PresidentSports Lifelong Pair
Engaged Couple Each Hold Two 
Insignia Awards; To Received 3rd
Probably one of the most well liked couples you have seen 
around campus none other than Don Walker and Marcella Sessi.
The inescapable fact is that this newly-engaged couple possess 
charm, intelligence, and an uncontrollable urge to make the most out
of the opportunities given them;4----------------------------------------------------------------
therefore, in whatever they do,
they can only succeed.
Don and Marcella met when she 
was five and he was only seven, 
•j but they refused to say under 
^ what circumstances. This great 
friendship began in a little town 
called Finleyville, where they are 
still residing. Through grade 
school, high school, and now 
through college they have had each 
other’s company. The drafting de­
partment of Pittsburgh Des Moines 
Steel Company has hired this per­
petual couple—Don as a drafts­
man and Marcella as a drafting 
> room clerk.
^ In school you will find both of 
them are active on Student Council 
.—Don is the Vice-President and 
Marcella is the Secretary. Don was 
also chairman of the Engineer’s 
banquet last year and many will 
recall that he worked dilligently to 
make it the success that it was. 
Now, they each have received two 
insignia awards for extra-curri­
cular activities and are already 
'-n qualified for the third awards this 
year.
Next year, however, Marcelli 
plans to give up her mech. engi­
neering work in order to be able 
to better work on her MRS degree 
in caring for Don her future hus­
band.
During his spare time, Don en­
joys fooling with photography.
Marcella, however, says she en­
joys doing most anything—espe­
cially traveling and teaching Sun­
day school. Last summer she found 
time to take a trip to Texas and 
Mexico. “It was wonderful,” sums 
her explanation.
In Marcella’s family there are 
also three brothers and one sister, 
all older than she, while Don is an 
only boy.
There was a time, however, 
when this happy couple was sep­
arated. For Don, as many another 
boy, was called by Uncle Sam to 
help defend his country during the 
second World War. During his 
time in active service, Don spent 
two years in the Philippines. Upon 
his return home, the childhood ro­
mance of yesteryear seemed to 
really blossom forth into a great 
romance. Here’s wishing them 
both the best of luck on their jour­
ney through life together.
Of Student Council
The Evening Student Council 
meeting held on Sunday, April 12 
really showed a lot of progress 
being made. First on the agenda 
was the circulation of the Plaid. 
Letters were read from both Di­
rector Cleeton and Dean David 
assuring evening students that the 
circulation will be improved.
During the recent blood cam­
paign 48 volunteers were pladg- 
ed.
The Springtime dance report 
was not completed in time for 
the meeting, however Ken Pove 
has disclosed that the affair was 
a success.
Election of the student to re­
ceive the Evening School Achieve 
ment Award was then held. The 
result will not be disclosed until 
the evening or the engineering 
banquet.
New officers for the coming 
school year were then elected.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup­
plies and equipment for the 
Spring semester, 1953, can not 
be honored by the Bookstore 
after May 9, 1953.
¿hoose
VOL5s:
îus^any
ratebqsdqyvv ivg
// MW/i I A'/Redd"
y
Page edited by Evening School Students oi the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor .............................................................................................................. victor Sabo1
Reporters.............Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.
They are as follows: President, 
Ray Schwalm; Vice - President, 
Ken Pore; Secretary, Anne Mae 
Legosh; Treasurer, Kathy Gal-
ligan; Social Chairman, Virginia 
Ross. The position of Plaid ed­
itor has been left open till a later 
date.
Prepare for an Executive Career 
in RETAILING — in just One Year!
From New York to New Zealand, college graduates converge on ‘ The 
Tailing Center” to train for an exciting, rewarding career—in just one 
year! Retailers needs you—and look to our graduate school—for fu­
ture advertising managers, buyers, merchandise managers, fashion 
executives, store managers, personnel administrators, researchers. 
Prominent retailers snd their sons and daughters to the ETLToT School 
of Retailing to help carry on the family business successfully. Out 
one-year Master’s Degree probram includes courses in all branches of 
retail-store management, under well-known specialists, plus 10 full 
weeks of supervised executive training, with pay, in leading New 
York stores, plus valuable store and market contacts.
For details, write for BULLETIN CJ# ; - -
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF RETAILING
100 Washington Square East New York 3, New York
hhsVs’I il0V j8rKys?
It’s easier than you think to 
make $25 by writing a Lucky 
Strike jingle like those you see 
in this ad. Yes, we need jingles 
—and we pay $25 for every one 
we use! So send as many as you 
like to: Happy-Go-Lucky, P. O. 
Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
PRODUCTOP
r +e*tbo°^-s *
,XX -swkI
-ro~/^>nyi<vruf AMERICA'S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTESU FT MT Ds¡

---------------------------------------------------

8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 14, 1953
THE DU PONT
Win the race, bag the 
trpphy, and dunk 
the coxswain ... then 
ease up and enjoy 
the pause that refreshes 
with delicious, 
ice-cold Coca-Cola.
CUMMN5R oER5W FoMYUG’ML Uv MY5 DUDF.DUNF COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH
5722 Center Avenueinland 1-7011“It must have been one of your students with a sense of humor; 
the note says, ‘Prof. Snarf, your window is broken’.”© 1953X MY5 DUDF.DUNF DUABFEL'Coke" is a registered trade-mork
For Your Next Fraternity or 
Sorority Affair
THE PINES
Good Food—Cocktail Lounge 
Perry HighwayRoute 19 near West View
WE 1-2131 for Inquiries
Fraternities and Sororities
Open ab Account and esk 
YOUR FULL DISCOUNTOAKLAND HARDWARE
3fmH vUGC5S SMTF eGUh’Ee v’5NR
University Recreation
7/1#,-f
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
Paul D. Kohl (left), B.S. in M.E., Purdue'46, 
checks the assembly of an experimental control 
instrument.
AlwsVr t,r0-,9k0V8rK kVsrwI ,k R0 Blrk nV8rK 
s7sV.8r9Vs,I8rK l33lVk0r8k8sI -lV ks9hr89,y tsr
So you may visualize the scope and 
diversity of the work, here are ex­
amples of instrumentation recently 
developed and designed by Du Pont 
technical men:Do you think of instrumentation as Instrumentation is becoming more
applying only to work in electricity and more important in the chemical
and electronics? industry. In fact, many of today’s
Or would you also include prob- processes and products would not be
lems in chemical processing, mate- possible without modem measure-
rials of construction and materials ment and control systems. The trend
handling, as well as application of toward continuous processes means
equipment — both mechanical and challenging and constantly increas-
hydraulic—for measurement and ing opportunities for instrumenta-
control systems? tion men.
At Du Pont, instrumentation is Du Pont’s instrument program in­
applied to widely diverse areas of eludes research, development, design,
manufacturing operations. It calls for and supervising installation of proc-
many different technical back- ess control equipment. Some of the
grounds. In a typical instrument work is done in the central Engineer-
group there may be men whose formal ing Department at Wilmington,
training has been in mechanical, However, most of the major plants
chemical, electrical or metallurgical across the country now have their
engineering, or in physics, etc. own organized instrument groups.
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
1. A device to measure flow of approxi­
mately 30,000 lbs. per hour of gas at 
more than 10,000 p.s.i. To give 1.2% 
accuracy and be responsive to flow- 
changes of five cycles per second.
2T A device to monitor continuously 
1200 similar temperatures. Equipment 
to record temperature and sound alarm 
at a deviation of 1°C. from desired point.
3. An automatic control system to main­
tain a predetermined pressure-tempera­
ture relation in a large-batch autoclave 
during spontaneous reaction between 
two chemicals.
Thus it can be seen that Du Pont 
instrumentation is limited to no single 
avenue of engineering. Men with an 
aptitude for the work get experience 
in many phases of the Company’s 
technical activities—and an excellent 
background for positions in manage­
ment and administration.
fm7.m9 DGF’e SMG55M 
SDhsrysi 1.93m7
For Better 
Dry Cleaning
1-HOUR
SERVICE
Campus Cleaners
fHm9 vlVnsI SkT
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY
ASK FOR "Chemical Engineers at 
Du Pont.” New illustrated booklet de­
scribes initial assignments, training and 
paths of promotion. Just send post card 
to E. I. dtf Pont de Nemours & Co. 
(Inc.), 2521 Nemours Building, Wil­
mington, Delaware.
12 Inch
A5MFN GoN5GS 
vG55 kl Fyy 
DaTMT Sk0wsrkI
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
... THROUGH CHEMISTRY
G89h,Vw eT a,96IlrX B.S. in Ch.K., Columbia 
'42, and Gregory L. Laserson, Ph.D. in M.E., 
Columbia '49, test an infrared gag analyzer.
Fred R. Struder, B. Metal W., Rensselaer P.I. 
'SO, examines a pressure strain recorder with 
Allen R. Furbeck, E.E., Princeton '39:
Watch "Cavalcade of America” on Television
oMMN5 AFE UE DFABoSCi C’CN5GPatronize Our Advertisers
