* CAR N EG I ETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 64 — NUMBER 26WEDNESDAY, MAY 6, 1964
Tartan Selects Staff Editors;
I ^Cameron New Editor-in-Chief
This week the Carnegie Tartan is in new hands! The staff 
for the 1964-65 activities year has already begun work. 
Chosen last week, it is headed by Nancy-Cameron, editor-iiv
chief.
Assisting Nancy in the position of executive editor is 
Dick Elder. Bill Hartlep will as- ? 
su me the position of managing 
editor and handling the business 
side of the Tartan is Eric Feld­
man. Business Manager.
Other new staff editors are: 
iews editor, Evan Melhado; as­
sistant news editor, Sue Attinson;
uves editor, Marty Hodgson; 
sports editor, Scott McCormick; 
layout editor, Bev Philofsky; copy 
editor, Claire Dzatk'o; secretarial 
editor, Marylu Receo and circu- 
JaUon editor, Tom Johnson. Marti the schooI 1964-65.“ Joe,
Siegel, Dale Chodorow, and Tod 
Johnson will head the Advisory 
Board.
i Nancy Cameron, the new editor- 
in-chief, has worked for the Tar­
tan as both layout editor and ex­
ecutive editor. A junior Home Ec­
onomics major, she is the secre­
tary of Delta Gamma Sorority and 
of the journalism honorary, Pi.
D. E.; she is also a member of 
the Home Ec. Club.
Dick Elder, executive editor, is j 
a sophomore physics major. He , _ _
is vice-chairman of Student Con- | and new Congresses, Mr. R. D. 
i Vty gress and a former officer of Alpha 
Plii Omega, the school service fra­
ternity. A member of SAE Fra­
ternity he is also Thistle Frater­
nities Sales Manager and a par­
ticipant in intramural sports.
The new managing editor. Bill 
Hurt/ep, has been on the Tartan
sports staff for two years. He is j administration and that tuition 
a junior architect, member of i comprises only 50% of the school’s 
Scabbard and Blade, the military ! income. Of necessity, the speech 
honorary, and the swimming team. ; was only an outline of the highly 
!•«* He has played varsity football and j complex financial policy of Car- 
* track. w | negie Tech. At the close of the
The new editors w i lì stress j address there were questions from 
“communications,- coordin- j the floor.
ation, and an extensive, complete After anouneements. the meet- 
covcrage of the news." ling was adjourned.
Sandulli Heads 
New Congress 
For Next Year
At last Wednesday’s meeting, 
Joe Sandulli was elected the 
chairman of Student Congress for
Junior Chem E, has been a mem­
ber of Congress for two years. 
This year he held the positions of 
Chairman of .Freshman Orienta-- 
tion and Chairman of Leadership 
Committee. Dick Elder was elected 
Vice Chairman at the same meet­
ing. Since Ben Porter had with­
drawn from.the race, both were 
elected without opposition. Also, 
at the joint meeting of the old
Strathmeyer, Vice President, of 
Business Affairs, addressed the 
members concerning the tuition 
raise. He reported that tuition 
goes mainly for operational ex­
penses,-59% of which is for in­
struction and 20% of. which is
BTP, SAE Win Race;
'SN Takes Design
Bright and early last Friday morning at 7:30, the buggy 
design judging was held on the walk between the Tech 
stadium and Skibo. Sigma Nu took -first place with their 
sleamlined entry.
The preliminary races followed the design judging at 
10 a.m.. First place went to SAE
I with a time of 2:30.9. BTP took 
second, time: 2:31.5. PKA took 
i third, time: 2:39.5.
iThe dorms along ,with ten of 
the twelve fraternities entered 
[ buggies in each. Excitement 
| mounted during the competition 
| as a result of several accidents, 
j In the first heat, the buggies of 
] ATO and BTP collided while 
j avoiding a DU pusher who fell in 
front of them. BTP’s buggy suffer- 
| ed some damages. No one was 
j hurt and the race was rescheduled 
-a for Saturday.
PKA’s buggy collided with Phi 
KT’s in the sixth heat invalidat­
ing that race. It too was resched­
uled for Saturday. In the same 
heat, ATO's failed to negotiate a 
turn, collided with the curb and 
lost its canopy.
In the reruns on Saturday, 
BTP and PhiKT put PKA out of
the race, and tied for third place.
The deciding race was between 
BTP’s other buggy and SAE’s two 
wheeler. SAE’s pusher stumbled 
in front of BTP's buggy slowing it 
down. Although SAE, time: 2:33, 
came in well before BTP, time 
2:47, SAE conceded first place to 
BTP.
Applications Due 
For Chairmen
Applications tor chairman of 
the following committees should 
be submitted to the new chairman 
of Congress by Friday, May 8; 
Activities, Constitution, Elections, 
Finance, General Campus, Public 
Relations, Assembly, and Student 
Court Positions.
More Events, More Booths Make 
1964 Carnival Tech’s Biggest Yet
Beta Theta Pi’s prize winning buggy.
Spring Carnival of 1964 was the 
biggest in Tech’s history.
On Thursday evening the .mid­
way opened; it was 100 feet long­
er than last year's and featured 
a ferris wheel at the far end.
The Buggy Sweepstakes were 
held on Friday and Saturday 
mornings; several of the races 
had to be re-run because of col­
lisions.
On Friday afternoon a Carni­
val Queen was crowned and 
members were called to honor- 
aries. The Talent Jamboree be­
came an added event! There were 
also faculty egg tosses and sorority 
relays.
. Saturday afternoon there were 
almost three hours of plank joust­
ing.
The Four Preps sang many of 
the old popular songs on Friday 
evening; Saturday evening enter­
tainment was provided by the 
Tony Powell .Orchestra, comedian 
Tony Garland, and the Modern 
Flamingos.
At the “Great Shakes” dance, 
more' prizes were awarded than 
ever before. Because of a short-, 
age of trophies, temporary cham­
pagne buckets, in graduated sizes, 
were given as awards.
First and second place Sweep­
stake winners were Beta Theta 
Pi and Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Beta 
Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Theta 
tied for third place. Sigma Nu 
and Phi Kappa Theta won first 
and second place in buggy de­
sign. Booth design winners were: 
Tau Delta Phi, Kappa Sigma and 
Beta Theta Pi, in that order.
The KKG's, Tri Delts and 
Thetas took awards for their so­
rority queen presentations; in so­
rority relay competition, the Stg 
Kaps and Thetas won buckets.
GSIA won the faculty egg toss 
and Sigma Nu got both awards 
for the plank joust competition.
123,333 votes were cast in the 
UMOC contest. The four ugliest 
men on campus becarqe: Bob the 
Beast; Super Squeaks, SN; Scholl, 
KS; and Harris the Hide, TX. 
Each received a kiss from Carni- 
( continued on page 2)
Carnival Midway Becomes Largest Yet; 
Carnival Midway Features Ferris Wheel;
One hundred feet longer and 
one booth larger, the 1964 Spring 
Carnival Midway became the 
largest ever seen at Carnegie Tech.
The featured attraction, how­
ever, was a neon-lit ferris wheel 
(the first of many future ex­
pected rides) which was rented 
from Ken-Penn Amusements. A 
signpost for the midway, it made 
a colorful rotating advertisement 
at night for Spring Carnival.
Twelve fraternities and seven 
sororities entered booth designs 
in this year’s competition, with 
the added booth by the men’s dor­
mitories.
Heavy rains during the week 
caused a ppstponcment of the 
scheduled opening of the midway, 
and it was pushed up from 4:30 
Thursday afternoon to 7:30 that 
night.
Escorted by Midway Chairman 
Richard Elkman, six judges made 
a formal tour of the midway from 
7:30 until 9:00 p.m., at which time 
they branched off to take per­
sonal lours of the area.
The judges were: Robert Bow­
den, a graphic designer; Tom 
Craig, an electrical engineer; 
Jules LaBarthe, a textile research 
authority; Lawrence Lee, an Eng­
lish professor at the University 
of Pittsburgh; Frank Miller, pres­
ident of the carpenters’ local 
union; and Clarence Wright, a 
mechanical engineer. All were 
from Pittsburgh.
Saturday afternoon between 
1:30 and 3 the entire mid­
way, including' the ferris wheel, 
was open to the Easter Seat chil­
dren of Pittsburgh in co-operation 
with Kiwanis International. Free 
tickets for the booths, rides, and
refreshments were provided for 
the children.
Tau Delta Phi, winning booth, 
punning “To be or not to. be,M 
presented' a gardenful of flowers 
(continued on- page 2)
Student Congress
There will be a meeting of Stu­
dent Congress today at 4:30 p.m. 
in the Wherretfc Room. The new 
chairman and vice-chairman of 
Student Congress will b6 installed 
and Dr. Edward R. Shartz, Vice 
President for Academic Affairs» 
will address the Congress on the 
progress Carnegie Tech has made 
in the past year. All interested 
students are invited to sign up 
for congress committees' at this 
meeting.
p,

---------------------------------------------------

Pag« 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 6, 1964
A lumni Federation To Present 
Carnegie Computer Conference
The computer and its relation to creativity and modern 
society, will be the subject of the fourth annual Carnegie 
Conference on Saturday, June 6, at Carnegie Tech.
The conference is presented by the Alumni Federation 
of Carnegie Tech as a means of informing business, educa­
tional and community leaders
BULLETIN BOARD
about this intriguing machine.
Fifteen outstanding faculty 
members and three industrialists, 
who are graduates of Carnegie 
Tech, will discuss the computer 
and its role in creativity, the arts, 
and thé humanities.
, The guëst speaker will be Harry 
Golden, publisher, editor, author 
and lecturer, whose recent books 
have been regulars on the best 
seller lists. .
A scientific approach to the 
cohfei:ence topic will be presented 
by Dr. Herbert A- Simon, asso­
ciate' dean of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion, who will talk on: '‘Under­
standing Creativity.” He is inter­
nationally recognized as a leader 
among scientists who have. dem­
onstrated computers can be in­
structed to solve problems.
The humanistic view will be 
presented by Dr. John R. Cole­
man, dean of the Division of Hu­
manities and Social Sciences, 
whose topic is: “Of Men a'nd Ma­
chines, or How I learned to Stop 
Worrying and Love the Com­
puter.”
A panel discussion on: “Re­
search on Cognitive Processes,” 
will be moderated by Norman L. 
Rice, dean of the College of Fine 
Arts, with Professors Allen Ne­
well, Walter Reitman and Garlie 
Forehand participating.
Three Tech graduates, who are 
leaders in their fields, will take 
part in a panel discussion mod­
erated by B. Richard Teare, Jr., 
clean of the College of Engineer­
ing and Science. The topic will 
be: “Implications for Industry.”
The participating alumni are:
More Events? 
More Booths
(continued from page 1)
, val Queen, Ellen Schlessinger of 
AEPhi.
Special new awards were given 
for the Talent Show. A first buck­
et award and minalure tape re­
corder were presented to the ‘“En­
lightened Moments,” a singing 
group composed of Lawrence 
“Woogy” Goffney and Adrienne 
Artz. Ten and five dollars in sil­
ver were presented to second and 
third prize winners; Neil Hugu- 
ley and Marty Hodgson, John 
Gulh and Bill Anderson of “We 
Three.”
George L. Baldwin, Bell Tele­
phone Laboratories; Ivan Suther­
land, MIT. Lincoln Laboratory; 
and Robert P. Grago, Washington 
Systems Center. Tech faculty 
members taking part are: Kalman 
J. Cohen and William H. Pierce;.
A panel on the “Implications 
for Education, the Arts, and the 
Humanities,” will be moderated 
by Erwin R. Steinberg, dean of 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College. Faculty members parti­
cipating are: Alan J. Perlis, Gran­
ville H. Jones, Marta Sanchez, 
and John H. Sandberg.
Kiltie Band 
Concert
This is to remind those who 
..’ish to attend the Carnegie Tech 
Kiltie Band Concert, that it will 
be held this coming Saturday, May 
9, at 8:15 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland.
Honoring Dr. and Mrs; Warner, 
the concert is free and open to 
the public.
Carnival
Midway
(continued from page J) 
and honey bees. The game, uti­
lizing a light-emitting crossbow, 
used the photo-electrical p'rinci- 
cal to trigger five - electrical cir­
cuits for music, the buzzing of 
bees, lights, and a taped record­
ing of “Flight of the Bumblebee.” 
Second-place winner, Kappa 
Sigma, was a model Globe Thea­
ter, every bit in scope of the 16th 
Century literature. By tossing 
nickels at the carved statuetts of 
the Shakespearian players, the 
game’s participants exercised an­
other old tradition of compliment­
ing the English actors.
Beta Theta Pi’s third place 
booth design, a take-off on the 
“Merry Wives of Windsor,” again 
used the “dunk-a-Beta” theme. 
The game was a simple roll-the- 
ball trick, but the intricacy of the 
structure made up well for the 
simplicity of the game.
Alpha Phi Omega the usual un­
heralded service organization, 
served refreshments and aided 
those who weve working on the 
idway.
The Spring Carnival Committee 
made 15% of the receipts on the 
ferris wheel.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos — in the City
CARNA CEGI
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
WALLYS
Campus-Favored 
' MEN
HUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSWELLINGTON BOOTS FLÖRSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTYS-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
... and ...
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
Kiltie Banquet
All , members of the Kiltie 
Marching and Concert Band are 
invited to attend the Kiltie Ban­
quet which is being held at 
Johnny Garneau’s in Monroe­
ville at 5:30 p.m. on Sunday, May 
17.
For further information, mem­
bers may contact Dr. Strange, 
Fred Sammel, or Marty Staub.
Pî D E Meeting
There will be a PiDE meeting 
on Monday, May 11 at 4:30 p.m. 
in room 56, Skibo. The agenda will 
be initiation and installation. 
Gentlemen should wear coats and 
ties; ladies should wear heels.
S'NS
Scotch and Soda is now 
ing for a script for next yJJ 
show. Any interested studei 
with or without experience 
eAcouraged to apply by drt 
a note to S ’n S or Regina ] 
via Campus Mail. Any 
material may be treated, and t 
are.few limitations on the ? 
imagination.
Pi Delta Epsilon
The next Peate Corps Test 
be given on May 9, 1964 at 8 * 
a.m.. For further informalio N 
contact the local Peace Con 
office downtown.
CARE
CARE’s office in Pittsburgh has 
announced that it is now accept­
ing donations to send food to Dr. 
Schweitzer’s hospital in Lambar- 
ene, Gabon.
Donations from Pittsburgh will 
be used to send 2,500 tons of rice 
and other commodities to the hos­
pital.
All donations may be addressed 
to CARE, Albert Schweitzer Food 
Fund, Kaufmann’s, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
GET THE HEW 
BIC“F1NE POINT" 
—ONLY 25« !
This is really fine writing. 
Until today, only a spider 
could spin such a fine line. 
New BIC invents a hew “Fine 
Point" pen that writes 
sharper, clearer, thinner lines. 
BIC “Fine Point” with “Dya- 
mite" Ball Point is guaran­
teed* to write first time every 
time because it’s tooled of the 
hardest metal made by man. 
BIC is the world's finest writ­
ing instrument: BIC never 
skips, BIC never clogs, BIC 
never smears. What a pair of 
pen pals: thin-writing BIC 
“Fine Point" with orange bar* 
ret, only 25$; standard line 
BIC Medium Point "Crystal," 
just 190. Both available with 
blue, black, green or red Ink. 
Made in the U.S.A. *For re­
placement send pen to: 
WATER MAN-BIC PEN CORP.
MILFORD. CONN.
A ROBE BY ANY OTHER NAME
With the Commencement Day just a couple of short months 
away, the question on everyone's lips is: “How did the differ­
ent disciplines come to be marked by academic robes with 
hoods of different colors?” Everybody is asking it; I mean 
everybody! I mean I haven’t been able to walk ten feet on 
any campus without somebody grabs my elbow and says, “How 
did the different disciplines come to be marked by academic 
robes with hoods of different colors, hey?"
This, I must say, is not the usual question asked by colle­
gians who grab my elbow. Ordinarily they say, “Hey, Shorty, 
got a Marlboro?” And this is fitting. After all, are they not 
collegians and therefore loaded with brains? And does not 
intelligence demand the tastiest in tobacco flavor? And does 
not Marlboro deliver a flavor that is uniquely delicious? And 
am I not short?
But I digress. Back to the colored hoods of-academic robes. 
A doctor of philosophy wears blue, a doctor of medicine wears
green, a muster of mis wears white,- a doctor of humanities 
wears crimson, a master of library science wears lemon yellow. 
Why? Why, for example, should a master of library science 
wear lemon yellow?
Well sir, to answer this vexing question, we must go back to 
March 14, 1844. On that date the first public library in the 
United States was established by IJIrich Sigafoos. All of Mr. 
Sigafoos’s neighbors were of course wildly grateful—all, that 
is, except Wrox Todhunter.
Mr. Todhunter had hated Mr. Sigafoos since 1822 when both 
men had wooed the beautiful Melanie Zitt and Melanie had 
chosen Mr. Sigafoos because she was mad for dancing and Mr. 
Sigafoos knew all the latest steps—like the Missouri- Com­
promise Samba, the Shays’ Rebellion Schottische, and the 
James K. Polk Polka—while Mr. Todhunter, alas, could not 
«lance at all, owing to a wound he had received at the Battle 
of New Orleans. (lie was struck by a falling praline.)
Consumed^with jealousy at the success of Mr. Sigafoos’s 
library, Mr. Todhunter resolved to open a competing library. 
T his he did, but he lured not one single patron awav from 
Mr. Sigaloos. ‘'What has Mr. Sigafoos got that I have not?” 
Mr. Todhunter kept asking himself, and finally the answer came to him: books.
So Mr. 1 odhunter stocked his library with lots of lovely 
books, and soon he was doing more business than his hated rival. 
But Mr. Sigafoos struck back. To regain his clientele, he began 
serving toa at his library every afternoon. Thereupon Mr. 
1 odhunter, not to be outdone, began serving tea with sugar. 
T hereupon Mr. Sigafoos began serving tea with sugar and 
crram. I hereupon Mr. Todhunter began serving tea with sugar and cream and lemon.
I his, of course, clinched the victory for Mr. Todhunter 
because he had the only lemon tree in town—in fact, in the 
entire slate of Maine—and since that day lemon yellow has, 
of course, been the color on the robes of masters of library science.
(incidentally, the defeated Mr. Sigafoos packed up his li­
brary and moved to California where, alas, he failed once more. 
There were, to be sure, plenty of lemons to serve with his tea, 
but, alas, there was no cream because the cow was not intro­
duced to California until 1937 by John Wayne.)
Today Californians, happy among their milch kine, art 
enjoying filtered Marlboro Cigarettes in soft pack or Flip- 
Top Box, as are their fellow Americans in all fifty states of this Marlboro CountryI

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 6, 19«! — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page *
Photo above left — 'Early 
evening brought out the color­
ful neon lights of the ftrrit 
wheel, biggest feature of the 
1964 Spring Carnival
. Photo above right — Spring
>¦ Carnival Queen, Ellen Schies- 
singer. beams after Dr. Ellis, 
Acting Dean of Men, present­
ed her with crown and bou­
quet.
Photo right ;— The trick was 
to "lay an egg" gently info 
your cupped palms. After 
having travelled about 100 
feet this egg gave this guy 
quite a splattering at the 
Faculty Egg Toss.
J*ud made it difficult for staff to identify these "p^nhsters" i,, Carnival’s 
^Jousting Contest, but we printed this sloppy picture anw y.
— Photos by Jim 1
New perspectives oh Carnival from
height of ferns wheel. Longer and larger, the midway dr.w r.,«lar Mr«** of *ti.d«.rt*—d

---------------------------------------------------

Pace 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 6, 1M<
Editorial
Communications
As an initial step toward preparing for 
the coming academic year, we, the Carnegie 
Tech Tartan, stress extensive and complete 
coverage of news. This can only be accom­
plished through better communications.
Although under one name, Carnegie Tech 
is divided into three distinct parts — stu­
dents, faculty, and administration. Within 
these, there are further divisions — the col­
leges, the departments, and the offices.
Academically, this is a necessity. Why 
must this be so outside the classroom?
Only through an understanding of others 
can a common ground under a common 
name be established. Only through a unified 
effort to establish continuous channels of in­
formation among these areas can we hope 
to promote the ideal of a united student 
body.
It shall be the continuing purpose of the 
Tartan to speak for the students, through
the publication of informative, well-written 
articles.
Presenting mere facts in an article is not 
enough. When controversial issues arise — 
like parking, Thanksgiving vacation, tuition, 
or even the location of. the Carnival midway
Film Close-Up
The Silence, The Most
Readers Write
Readers Challenge Rodd’s View
by Stillwater Pierce
Shadyside’s current feature attraction, is Ingmar Bera- 
- the ™ tuîlent^deservè "tiT know* the Reasons man’s latest venture into filmic Freudiani««, “The Silenced 
behind such decisions. Although our duty is However, a twenty minute short running with it — “The 
to inform, it becomes difficult for us to ac- Most” — comes up a winner, here, and relegates Ingmar to 
complish this when students, faculty mem- second place.
bers, or administrators isolate themselves or - .
act disinterested. In “The Most a young man named Gorden Sheppardson
Co-operation, then, is one of the pre-re- and his friends decided to make a brief documentary study
quisites. We stress better communications 0f Hugh Heffner, Playboy’s founder and publisher. “Heft” 
to foster the United Carnegie Tech. We Obviously dug the idea, let Sheppardson and Company iol- stress it also to promote a better tartan. ./When it becomes easier to sit back and Iow hlm through his daily activities, let them film a Heftner 
criticize than to participate and contribute, party, and gave them lethal doses of Heffner philosophy, » 
the only result can be “nothing ventured, which Sheppardson and Company duly transcribe intact, 
nothing gained.” The result is a hilarious journey into the life of a rich, suave,
Without your support, the Tartan is un- casual, mundane nebbish. We see much more of Hugh Heff- 
able to function., N.R.C. ner in this biography than Heffner ever intended. We see
him face the camera and tell us, “I suppose, by any defini­
tion of the word, you could say I’m a genius, yes.” And later 
Heff candidly admits it may be true he’s made love to more 
beautiful women than any man alive. Watching Heff preen 
before, us, watching him utter colossal vacurities with im­
mense seriousness, watching debauched sycophants praise 
their skinny king — all this Contributes to a riotous comedy,
unrehearsed and sick indeed.- ¦ \
Happily, the makers of "The Most” realized what an 
unintentional comedian their subject' was, and edited their 
film accordingly. Heflf’s given free rein to make as much of 
an ass of himself as he desires. And he’s all for it. In one 
tion* V am* revelatory moment, Hugh lets us know that, as a youngster,the enemy’s bidding? Mr. Rodd s would have been met with mol.e he tried to model himself after F. Scott Fitzgerald, his idol, 
fallacy lies in assuming that the than wl.jtten disagreement in the What Heff will never comprehend is that he’s much closer
enemy is always honorable. Soviet Union, for example. to Fiezgerald’s Great Gatsby than he’ll ever be to Fllz-
Draft laws are not made hastily There aie those about who gerald. How thoro-going is Heffner’s pseudo-sophistication? 
in this country. They arise out of would bargain to no end with the Believe it or not, Playboy’s penny-ante profundity has even 
the opportunity to meet him a few necessity is Mr Rocid's pierog- Communists. This is fine, if you spread to a Negro cleaning woman in the magazine’s office 
weeks ago. He certainly has dem- ative to criticjze them as much as you hal'e. the s,V,®ngt!? t0 sllPPolt building: “Heff is for me .the son I never had,” she tells the
onstrated courage Zl he likeE.' W whUe *h£y "* m£u "The U™ States hasTevVtósi “5“«*- Don’t mlSS "The Most ”
to* oppose all national defense fect’ !t 1S the duty of every citlzen a war or won a conference.” This Bergman’s effort, meanwhile, seems to this reviewer a
with the adamance shown and the in oul democratic society to up- is an accurate description of the tedious and obliqué exploration of sexuality. Two sisters —
reasons cited by Mr. Rodd serves hold them. If Mr. Rodd breaks the si ua r if pi*L££f. one a Lesbian — are seen traveling in an unnamed foreign
only to point out that the Une be- law, he is a criminal. If he rea- ~ produced a good deal country with the seven-vear-old son of the younger sister, lucori cnuraee and ignorance is li7.es this, and would rather go to oiocKaae pioaucea a gooa aeai. r u- - O • r i.- • • x •
iol alwavs so cîear as it should prison than obey the law, then We do not deny your right''to T1?e Lf*jan is dying of consumption, her sister strikes up 
be • that is also his prerogative. For criticize the draft; we do disagree a bnef affair Wlth a waiter, the young boy befriends an old
The army is trained to kill other my Pai't> I sleep much better with your anarchist methods of bellhop. They leave their hotel suite, again board the. train, 
hum *n beings only because men knowing that there are several protesting the law, and with the and “The Silence” ends. In the process, incestuous relation-
with more experience than Mr. winês of. SAC bombers in the air substance of the protest itself. ships are hinted at, Freudian symbolism proliferates, and
Rodd believe this training is nec- a11 the time- and tha* their creJ's> The bulwark of freedom in this questions remain purposefully unresolved; suggested themes 
essary to avoid war. What about contrary to recent opinion and Dr. world is the military strentgh of are never developed, never united into any coherant whole, 
unilateral disarmament? Do men Strangelove, are not made up of the United States of America, and
have the courage to resist any war-happy morons. the backbone of that strength is “The Silence” represents a further striving by Bergman
dictator simply by refusing to co- Robert Fritz the Universal Manhood Conscrip- for The Essence — that is, an ultimate simplification of tech-
cperate with him?' History does " tion. its end would mark the end nique in order to present a pure vision to his audience. In
not support Mr. Rodd. From.the Staila 1 akeïl of your right to object to it. “Thru A Glass Darkly” and “Winter Light,” he self-con-
Jóhn T. Elliott, III sciously shied away from those feats of cinematic genius
Jack É. Pevenstein which had earned him his immense acclaim. In “The Sil-
Richard H. Davis ènee,” he continues his abandonment of “clever direction,”C. William Reeder
Rodd Attacked 
As Criminal
by starving any farmer who work- lion people have come under the 
ed his fields? How about bombing iron hand of Communism. This 
one large city at random if the system is diametrically opposed to 
nation as a whole refused to do our national ideals and - institu-
Editor, the Tartan:
I have read Mr. Thomas Rodd’s 
views in last week’s Tartan with 
interest, particularly since I had
Children’s Crusade of the Middle
Ages to the Hungarian revolt of » « - "O 11
3956, the evidence has always AgiHUSt JaOCHi 
been that courage does no good if
the bad guys have clubs, swords, An Open Letter to
horses, machine guns, and tanks.Thomas Whitney Rodd:
Stephen M. Blue
Mr. Rodd would probably con- xhere ale many 0( us wh0 dis- • w, .
sider the passive revolt of India, agree wjth your position; among W.’li/* * \ ffj/f ¡is I if
led by Mahatma Ghandi, as a sue- QUr groUp are the leaders of every 
cessful example of opposition to a majol. nation in the world 
dictator without the use of foice. wouid like to present an argument 
One must agree with him. But a SUpp01-ting our position, few facts should be pointed out: . .... Among your signatories *....1)England was engaged m a many membe,.s of the Tech his- The editorial called “An Un­
war of survival at the time, and t department; if you and the wanted Change,” appearing in the
had to promise independence to gent|emen who ’ aglee wjth you APril 29 issue, contains a very
keep India in the war effort. w0uid examine history, you would mistaken major premise which I
2) The population of India was see the total futility of pacifism. would like to correct. At issue
considerably larger than that of pacjfism has failure as its testa- , ,
Great Britain. ment. Early Christians followed __^
giving us, instead, a very static and laborious film exper­
ience, which, to this reviewer, is not compensated for by 
any increase in its depth of perception. Why Bergman feels 
guilty about entertaining his audience in these three most 
recent films remains unanswerable. In a sense, he parallels1 (UnwantedchanSalinger in this search for the mystical. He is not there yet. 
>t O and the journey is getting to be a drag.
Editor, The Tartan: ,
H/A An TT«i I
¿m.
not “under God” 
-Pledge of Alle-
3)The morals and religion of the turn-the-other-cheek policygiance. The writers, and I ap-
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
the British people prevented them you mention. In keeping with the Preciat® their signing the articlewell as their moderate tone, 
assume that the two disputed 
words strengthen government and 
the" name reliSicm* The Constitution was adopted in 1789. It was nearly 
1900 before we had to pledge 
our allegiance and it wus only in 
1954 that “under God” was re­
quired. If these two words wore 
so crucial, why (he delay?
A sccond mistaken assumption 
is this: Those who believe in re- 
. . w • i. i i.i ligion are supposed to favor eov-At the moment there is a cho.ce ways ^ ,„U ™an ernmental support. Anyone who
from utilizing mass murder of times, religion has changed some- 
civilian populations as a political what. The Holy Crusades will be 
weapon. remembered as the* wars that
4)After the war, England’s colo- slaughtered children 
nial policies were looked upon of Christ.
with extreme disfavor by the The United States of America 
larger nations and her allies. would not exist if it weren’t for
5) None of the above suasions the .willingness of a few revolu- 
would apply in some future tragi- tionaries to kill and die for what 
comedy starring Uncle Sam as they believed, not merely protest 
India and Uncle Nikita or Uncle their plight.
Mao or both as Great Britain. Neville Chamberlain will al­
to be made between an unsteady who stepped from the plane pro 
peace and total surrender. But Mr. claiming, “Peace in our times/’ 
Rodd feels that no surrender only to yield to the effective lead- 
would be entailed in unilateral ership of Sir Winston Churchill
opposes is 
American 
just not tr
irreligious and un­
it least. This too is 
le. (Note the Council
jf Soviet low-level reconnaissance -Royal Air Force and American
planes patrolled Pittsburgh? He military aid saved Britain and Prayer
says that nothing could make us kept alive the hopes of Europe, GVumj ».i- VLUUM not the nAarpfnl Af iv.*. P°scd to government mterven-
I agree with the girls that re­
bend our wills to cooperate. But n°t the peaceful giveaway of the 
what about stopping our com- Sudetenland.
merce by aerial supremacy? How Since World War II, 5.3 million 
«bout starving us into submission square miles of land and 608 mil-(continued on page 5)
Editor-In-Chief ............................Nancy R. Cameron
Executive Editor ...........................................Dick Elder
Managing Editor ..........................................Bill Hartlep
Business Manager ................................Eric Feldmann
News Editor .............................................Evan Melhado
Assistant News Editor ...........................Sue Attinson
Features Editor .....................................Marty Hodgson
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor .........................Bev Philofsky
Copy Editor ........................................ Claire Dzatko
Secretarial Editor ..................................Marylu Recco
Circulation Editor ......................................Tom Johnson
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, h orbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2--1557; Editcr-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2~88!)5; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
peiiods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

VcMw. Mw fi, 1964 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — F»g« 3
J Library Opens 
Music Rooms
New m u s i c facilities on the 
fourth floor of the Hunt Library 
officially opened lo the campus on 
Monday, May 4.
Although the new department 
riiis only a small selective col- 
lci lion in a special storage room, 
ihc extensive equipment can eas­
ily accommodate an expanded 
tolleclion of records and tapes.
('continued on page 7)
Readers Write
Pastor Replies to 
‘UmvantedChange’
(continued from page 4) 
lijiion is important, that our her- 
iuige is important. But to me re­
ligion is a matter for home and 
church or synagogue — or for 
discussions as part of the school 
curriculum — and for individual 
living. But religion neither needy 
nor benefits from government in­
volvement. And that is what the 
American tradition teaches, too.
? Sincerely,
Rev. Philip A. Silk, Advisor 
Emerson Club
PiDE Elects 
New Officers
Pi. D. E. has chosen its 'two 
major officers for the 1964-65 ac­
tivities season. William Small 
will succeed out-going president 
Ev Janssen, and Marcia Avner 
will serve as vice-president.
Guided by this year’s president. 
Ev Janssen, Pi. D.E. became more 
than just an honorary. It actively 
served to "foster and support 
publications.”
It revived Patterns; each of the 
publications was discussed and 
criticized by members of the or­
ganization and by outside critics.
William Small, past editor of 
the Technical, and Marcia Avner, 
co-editoi-in-chief of Patterns, 
plan to extend the Pi. D. E. pro­
gram. This past year problems 
were discussed; next year the new 
officers will attempt to solve these 
problems through a publications 
work-shop.
Readers Dispute 
Pacifist’s Stand
Editor. The Tartan:
In the TARTAN we read the
* — Thai Tom Rodd has the draft 
i * board blues.
Or was it simply fame he sought, 
j That made him think up all the
! rot?
So in order not to serve his time, 
He conjured up. this pacifist line. 
Bui isn't this cause of which he
speaks
Just covering up those yellow 
streaks?
EV So his old man digs up lots of 
i ' dough.
To hire a lawyer to run Tom 
show.
The news is spread bn the papers 
thick —
Enough to make us pretty sick.
Without our arms and with his
jive,
Wll all be dead by sixty-five. 
But. if his cause grows more and 
more,
3 We'll all be had in sixty-four.
With less good guys and more like 
him.
Our survival chances look mighty
A SUMMER SEMESTER IN THE NATION’S CAPITAL
et The George Washington University
TWO TERMS
June 15-July 21 July 23-August 28
• Air-conditioned classrooms and library
• Housing available in student residence halls
• Urban campus just four blocks from the White House 
write for catalo£ue:
“The George Washington University Washington, £ 20006
Triumph TR-4 
Takes First
Ralph Kilmoyer and Walt Lang, 
driving their Triumph TR-4, won 
Motorsport’s F i rst Competition 
Event Sunday, April 26. The A. C. 
Bristol Coupe of Arrington and 
Neal finished second in the closely 
contested race.
The course, planned by Bob 
Pierce, ran through sixty miles 
of Allegheny and Washington 
Counties. A large part of the 
route extended over rough back- 
country roads, causing slight 
breakdowns on several of the 
competitor’s cars.
All 26 competitors said that 
they enjoyed themselves and 
would be ready for the next 
event, in spite of the protests by 
several local citizens who be­
came somewhat irate at cars rush­
ing past at one-minute intervals.
“The Deputy” 
To Be Topic Of
Discussion
| On Tuesday, May 12, at the 
; 11:30 Assembly hour. Rabbi Rieh- 
! ard Rubenstein. Professor Robert 
j Schwarz, and Father Henry Ten 
j Kortenaar will discuss the conlro- 
j versial drama now playing on 
Broadway, “The Deputy.”
J “The Deputy” is a play by 
[year-old Rolf Hochhuth, a C 
j man writer of the postwar gen- 
| eration. Originally called “dev 
I Stellvertreler” or “The Substit- 
i ute,” the play concerns the respon- 
j sibility of the late Pope Pius XII 
I to aleviate the persecution of Jews 
: in Nazi-occupied Europe. Since 
I the play was first presented pre- 
| sented in West Berlin, prim po- 
j lemics have appeared in the 
j world-wide press, and historians,
I diplomats and churchmen have 
had their say. The primary issue 
of the debate concerns the al­
ledged responsibility of certain 
Protestant and Roman Catholic 
clergy — all the way up to Pope 
Pius XII — in the crimes commit­
ted during the Nazi period. Hoch­
huth himself claims it is not a 
question of the Pope’s “guilt,” bul 
of his responsibility. He ask§: “As 
the leader of half a billion Chris­
tians, 20 per cent of whom were 
subjects of Hitler, was not the 
Pope responsible for the moral 
level of the world?”
Rabbi Rubenstein, Chaplain to 
Jewish Students; Dr. Schwarz, 
Professor of History at Tech; and 
Father Henry Ten Kortenaar, Ro­
man Catholic Chaplain of the 
Oratory, will discuss issues rising 
from the play, as well as the im­
pact of the play itself in the on­
going discussion of “responsibil­
ity.”
The Assembly will be held in, 
the Skibo Ballroom, and is being 
sponsored by the newly formed 
Carnegie Tech Chaplains-Associa­
tion. All interested persons ar 
invited to attend.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
é^xcinôii/e ut fëolertô
SYMMETRYPRICES FROM $136 TO *»600
1SKT. While Gold Solitaire setting high and pretty 
giving maximum brilliance and security. $300 F.T.I. 
Enlarged for detail.
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
JOHN M. ROBtRTS£ SON C»I
Ji WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN
i! East Hills Shopping Center • 731 Washington Rd., Ml. Lebanon
This Week in Pittsburgh
LECTURES
•“Home O Sapiens — a house is not a home,” May 11, 
8:15 YM&WHA “Interior Design’ Nathan Levenson
*“Some causes of Depression” May 12, 8:15 YM&WHA 
Dr. Lucy Zabarenko
*“Karen Horney” May 6, 8:15, YM&WHA Dr. Richard L.
Rubenstein, in the series “Schools of Psychoanalytic 
- Thought”
*“The Deputy,” May 12, 11:30, Skibo Ballroom, Dr. 
Richard Rubenstein, Professor Robert Schwartz, 
Father Henry Ten Kortenaar, panel discussion.
*Falk Lectures, “The Four Futures,” May 6, 8 p.m.
*“The Past and Present”; May 7, 4 p.m. “The Future,” 
Skibo Ballroom, Harrison Brown, Editor-at-large of 
the Saturday Review
*Tech Dames, May 12, 8:15 p.m., Skibo “Never Under­
estimate the. power ...” Dr. Beekman Cottrell, 
Associate Professor of English 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers, May 6, 8 p.m. 
Skibo "Current Technology in the Manufacture of 
Phthalic Anhydride,” Dr. Albert Saffer.
*Dr. and Mrs. J. C. Warner’s President’s Party, May 9, 
3:00 p.m. Skibo Ballroom. All Freshmen and their 
parents are cordially invited.
’League of Women Voters, May 11, 8:30 Wherrett Room, 
Skibo, “Inside Party Politics,” Dr. Edward F. Cooke
’Contemporary Israeli Paintings, continuing through 
May 10, 1-4 p.m. 8-10 p.m., Sun.-Fri. Temple Sinai, 
5505 Forbes Ave.
’Calligraphy and graphic design by Howard Glasser, 
continuing through May 8, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. 9-12 noon 
Sat., Porter Garnett Gallery.
Tennis, Carnegie Tech vs. Duquesne, Home, May 7, 
2:30 p.m.
. Track, Carnegie Tech vs. St. Francis, Home, May 7, 3:30 
p.m.
*Free and open to the public
SUMMER JOBS
for STUDENTS
NEW S’64 directory lists 20,000 summer job 
openings in 50 states. MALE or FEMALE. Un­
precedented research for students includes exact pay rates and job details. Names employers and 
their addresses for hiring- in industry, summer camps, national parks, resorts, etc., etc., etc. 
Hurry!! jobs filled early. Send two dollars. Satis­
faction guaranteed. Send to: Summer Jobs Di­rectory — P.O. Box 13593 — Phoenix, Arizona.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
a MUSTARD• RELISH » ONION• PICKLE
• MAYONNAISE a SAUERKRAUT• CHILE• KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER ¦
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c — PIZZA (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MiMMVM ORDER — 91.AO)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET ¿21-7388 — 682-846«

---------------------------------------------------

Fase 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May S, 1964
Swearingen Chosen As 
Alumnus Of The Week
This week’s alumnus is Mr. John E. Swearingen. A 1938 
graduate of the University of South Carolina, he received a 
Bachelor of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering. For 
the year following his graduation, he attended graduate 
courses at Carnegie Tech, where he obtained a Master of 
Science Degree in 1939.
A prominent oil industry execu­
tive, Mr. Swearingen began his 
remarkable career in 1939. His 
first position was that of a chemi­
cal engineer in Standard Oil Com­
pany’s Research Department at 
Whiting, Indiana. Eight years 
later he transterred to Stanolind 
Oil and Gas Company, an explo­
ration and production subsidiary 
of Standard in Oklahoma. He rose 
rapidly through several positions 
at Stanolind, eventually becoming 
one of its Directors. In 1951 he re­
turned to Standard in Chicago as 
General Manager of production.
The next year he was elected a 
Director. Following his Director­
ship he held two vice-presiden­
cies, becoming president of Stan- 
dard in 1958. Mr. Swearingen's 
professional career extends be­
yond' the oil industry, for he has 
been Director of both the Chase 
Manhattan Bank and the First 
National Bank of Chicago. Today 
he holds directorships in the 
American Petroleum Institute and 
in the American National Bank 
and vTrust Company of Chicago.
Outside the business world, Mr.
Swearingen belongs to several 
professional organizations, among 
them, the American Institute of 
Chemical Engineers, the American 
Chemical Society, and the Amer­
ican Institute of Mining and 
Metallurgical Engineers.
Not only an outstanding indus­
trial executive. Mr. Swearingen is 
one of Chicago’s most noteworthy 
citizens. He holds memberships in 
several Chicago organizations 
such as the Chicago Club, The 
Executives’ Club, and the Chicago 
Athletic Association.
A holder of several educational 
honors and positions with univer­
sities, Mr. Swearingen is a mem­
ber of Phi Beta Kappa. Omicron 
Delta Kappa, and Sigma Xi. In 
1962 he received an honorary 
Doctoral Degree from Knox Col­
lege. Presently he is. a member of 
the citizens’ board of the Univer-
Can Patterns Succeed 
In Their Great Quest?
A vacationing baker, for whom loafing meant hard 
work, not relaxation, decided to look for a mate. One day 
upon spying a maid, whose affection he was certain would 
put him in seventh oven, he accosted her bravely, and with 
a rye grin, said, “Doll, I’ve been here a whole wheat, and 
am suddenly come upon poor luck.* '
Could your ypare a nickel?” He ! from the Tartan? Patterns is rais-. 
hated to bagel for money, but he ing money to sue the author of the
WHAT’S NEW
IN THE MAY
-ATLANTIC?
"The Squeeze on the Liberal u„i.versify" by J. Douglas Brown.the liberal university survive inCan
John E. Swearingen
sity of Chicago and is an associ­
ate at Northwestern University. A 
Life Trustee and Highlander of 
Carnegie Tech, he was honored 
with the Alumni Federation 
Award in 1958.
hoped to enlist her sympathy. 
“No, sir, I can’t,” she said, vis­
ibly affronted. Our baker, dis­
daining to pumpernickel, was 
ever more carawayed by her 
beauty, “I love you, I love you, 
Apple/’ he said. (Her name was 
Apple.) She thereupon turned and 
wept. “Don’t cry. Oh, Apple! 
Turnover and be mine. At least 
let me cake you home. I’ll woo 
you. Icing very sweetly, you 
know.” “No, you doughnut,” was 
her empahtic reply. And so, a 
battered man, the poor baker bid 
Apple a sorrowful “good-pie.”
above, and needs your support.
Early (his month, Patterns 
will go on sale all over campus.
Please contribute! They need 
the dough!
Want to remove trash like this
TYPING
FAST 6 EFFICIENT
O REASONABLE •
Term Papers — Theses — Dis­
sertations — Punctuations — Spelling — Grammar Correct­
ed.
AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
bigness, diversity, and specialization? And what values would be lost if we succumbed to the concepts of the multiversities? 
"tiebling, Libel, and the Press’** Louis Wl. Lyons discusses the respon­sibility of the press, the threat to the 
freedom ol the press from libel suits and inadequate training of reporters' 
“The Computers of Tomorrow’*] Martin Greenberger analyzes the ex. tent to which computers will reach Into our daily lives.
PLUS: “The Mad Strangler of Boston” by Erie Stanley Gardner ••Tokyo and the Olympics*', “Peopl
What happens when an outstanding staff of editors sets out to produce ;
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
¿21-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
DO IT YOURSELF
on your own ^ or US-e°no
”°l4,rSrJírn ¡iCÍiym”eEforythe'(ali term.
Today's Best Buy: 
1961 DELUXE 
VW STATIONWAGON 
$1495
fully equipped, like new
M.W. MOTORS
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: GEORGE KATZENBERGER, JR.
An Assistant Engineer himself only a year ago, George 
Katzenberger, Jr., now supervises two Assistant Engineers. 
George (B.S.M.E.. 1961) is the New Jersey Bell Engineer 
responsible for providing for telephone growth in two im­
portant central office exchange areas near New Brunswick.
On his own signature George can approve expenditures 
for additional equipment and facilities costing up to $3000 
apiece, a significant measure of his company’s belief in 
his thinking and judgment.
George's outstanding contribution as an Assistant Engi-
TELEPHONE MAN-OF-THE-MONTH
neer in East Orange qualified him for his latest promotion. 
He had gained notice for his thoroughness in programming 
equipment additions to central offices and in his handling 
of layout and building work for one of the largest telephone 
buildings in the district.
George Katzenberger, Jr., like many young engineers, 
is impatient to make things happen for his company and 
himself. There are few places where such restlessness is 
more welcomed or rewarded than in the fasl-growing tele­
phone business.
BILL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
WÊÊÊÊ

---------------------------------------------------

Wcdnecdvr. M»j «, 19«4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Ttic 7
SPRING CARNIVAL 
REPORT 
Call Day
Ellen Schlessinger, Spring Carnival Queen, was crown­
ed at Call Day ceremonies last Friday afternoon by Dr 
George Ellis, Acting Dean of Men. The charming Queen is 
a senior majoring in psychology. She is a member of AEPhi, 
and has recently been chosen as one of 35 semi-finalists in 
Glamour’s Best Pressed Girl Con-#----------------------------------------
test.
The-program was held on the 
Fine Arts lawn with Tom Miller, 
president of Executive Council, 
presiding.
Adding formality to the cere 
mony, Scabbard and Blade dem 
onstrated the manual of arms. The 
Tartan Pipers also played and 
several honoraries called up new 
members.
Among them, ODK called the 
following five senior men: Hank 
Werronfen, Joe Sandulli, Ben Por 
ter, Gary Lindstrom, and Keith 
Pierce.
Mortar Board calied the ..fol­
lowing nine women: Marcia
Avner, Betsy Bealke, Sharon 
Brady, Hedda, Bluestone, Ann 
Carten, Pam Wormmgton, Kathy 
Thompson, Marjorie Mathie and 
Peggy Ross.
Other honoraries calling mem­
bers were Phi Tau Gamma (22), 
Delta Skull (18, Cwens (26), and 
Scimitars (13);
VMOC
Preps Concert
Singing ai the Spring Carnival 
Concert last Friday evening, the 
Four Preps presented • a lively 
program.
The quartet reviewed their own 
hits such as “Big Man” and 
“Down by the Station,” sang sev­
eral other favorites, and spent 
much of the evening mimicking 
other singing groups. Among 
those “volunteered” for distant 
iissignments in the Peace Corps 
were the Kingston Trio, the Four 
Freshman and the Platters.
They also satirized the present 
folk song craze, with special ref­
erence to a certain trio of two 
bearded men and an eight ioot- 
Uill woman.
The spicy humor included per- 
linent references to Pitt, Schenlcy 
Ova], and Mrs. Green.
Undaunted by the fireworks re­
sulting from a burnt out spot­
light, they called for “applause 
only."
The members of the quartet, 
Marv Ingram, Bruce Belland, 
Glen Larson, and Ed Cobb, at­
tended Hollywood High School in 
California together. The Marty 
Harris Trio, who travel with 
them on the capital label, ac­
companied them in the gym.
In spite of sealing problems, 
the large crowd of students en­
joyed the concert very ’much and 1 
were very disappointed when : 
cries of “more” went unheeded, i
Fourteen candidates entered 
the highly successful TJMOC con 
test this year. The competition 
was very keen and the campaign: 
were vigorous and lively. This 
year's drive proved that running 
a TJMOC contest can be 
of fun, and if your fund raising 
projects are clever, you might 
even win. The fund raising pro' 
jects were many and varied 
SN’s slave and ugly doli sale, 
SAE’s date raffle, Beta’s car 
smash, Bèta Sig’s dance, and Tau 
Delt’s cookie sale.
The four ugliest men on cam 
pus honored the 1964 'Carnival 
Qùeen, Ellen Schlessinger, with 
a kiss, and the Ugliest Man 
Campus, Bob the Beast of Beta 
Sigma Rho* received the Ugly 
Mug.
Second place went to Supei 
Squeaks of Sigma Nu, third went 
to Scroll of Kappa Sigma, and 
fourth to Harris the Hide 
Theta Xi. The order and votes 
cast are listed below:
T his— SN ,S &, KKG — iide — TX & SJ I — SAE — 5,5 I» — 5,4«o
o-Yo — Cllt O
iss Giambelluca — ATO — 2« Leslor (jzorlcti — PKA — 17«
The amount received for Cam­
pus Chest totaled $1232.70, 
eluding 43 cents—Canadian, 
centavos—Mexican, 1 centavo— 
Dominican Republic, six pence— 
British, and 1 NYC subway token 
(the foreign student vole, 
doubt!).
INSTANT
SILENCE
Study. Anytime 
Anywhere
Sound attenuators" as 
utilized by military 
and commercial jet air­
craft ground crew per­
sonnel are the perfect 
solution. For information 
write:
Academic Aids 
P. O. Box 969 
Berkeley 1, Calif.
JOBS ABROAD
STUDENTS aim TEACHERS
Largest NEW directory. Lists hundreds of permanent 
career opportunities in Europe, South America, Africa 
and the Pacific, for MALE or FEMALE. Totals 50 coun­
tries. Gjves specific addresses and names prospective 
U.S. employers with foreign subsidiaries. Exceptionally 
high pay, free travel, etc. In addition, enclosed vital 
guide and procedures necessary to foreign employment. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Send two dollars to Jobs 
Abroad Directory — P. O. Box 13593 — Phoenix, Ari-
Library Opens 
Music Rooms
(continued from page 4)
There are 39 Koss listening sta­
tions along the south wall of the 
fourth floor, each with a six-chan­
nel selector and volume control.
In the two listening rooms on 
the GSIA side of the floor, one 
on either side of the record room, 
there are four dozen padded arm­
chairs for listeners who make use 
of the four KLH wall-mounted 
stereo speakers. There aré also 
two self-contained record players 
in the- rooms.
The music equipment, all in­
stalled by “Opus One,” includes 
one Garrard and six Thoren turn­
tables, two variable Tanberg.tape- 
decks, and Scott amplifiers.
The library plans to expand 
the present six-channel system to 
eleven channels and periodically 
to borrow and tape rare records 
for the formation of a permanent 
collection.
Although the music department 
will have frequent use of the fa- 
cilities when they need them, the 
fourth floor music section will Be 
open for student and faculty use 
from 1:30 to 4:30 each weekday 
afternoon.
English Dept To 
Offer Courses In 
Creative Writing
Two courses in creative writ­
ing are to be offered by the De­
partment of English in an inno­
vation being established for the 
academic year 1964-65.
Admission to each course is re­
stricted to qualified students, who 
will .be selected by the Depart­
ment of English. Interested stu­
dents are urged to submit appli­
cations for admission no later 
than Monday, May 11. The ap­
plication should be addressed to 
Professor Austin Wright, head of 
the department.
The specialized course “Tech-, 
niques of Fiction” taught by Pro­
fessor Gladys Schmitt and nor-, 
mally restricted to seniors will be 
offered again next year. A. new 
course, “Creative Writing,” open 
to qualified seniors, juniors, and 
sophomores, will be. concerned 
with creative writing in its broad­
er aspects.
Candidates are reminded of the 
May 11 deadline to apply for ad­
mission to either C-i39, “Creative 
Writing,” or C-141, “Techniques 
of Fiction.” Both courses will'be 
scheduled Tuesday and Thursday 
afternoons from 3:0.0 to 4:20 p.m.
Warner Host 
At Frosh Party
Freshmen are invited to join 
with their parents as guests of Dr* 
and Mrs. Warner at the Presi­
dent’s Party in the Skibo Ball* 
room at 3:00 p.m. on Saturday, 
May 9 — Parents’ Day.
Congress Agenda
1. Dean Schatz, Vice President of 
Academic affairs, speaks on the 
state of Carnegie, its progress, 
and its future.
2.Installation of new Congress 
Congress chairman, Joe San* 
dulli, and a statement of his 
policy^
3. A n n o u n cement of com* 
mittee heads appointments for 
the approval of Congress.
4. Sign up for committee work. S
5..Budget of the Student Congress
lor the coming year is pres» 
ented for approval.
fam Batiste gets
M
mfn .
0 ViJivr fD*
an
“ARROW*
Comfortable batiste fabric in the 
college man’s favorite oxford 
weave is sure to be one of the 
most popular shirts this sea­
son on or off the campus. 
Traditional ivy styl­
ing in the handsome 
Sussex button-down 
collar... traditional 
ARROW tailoring 
for perfect fit and 
“Sanforized” labeled to 
ensure lasting lit washing 
after washing. Crisp; cool 
white in short sleeves.
$5.00
Jack and Jill—Cue and Cushion
Broadview Blvd.—Natrona Heights (next to Eat N Park) 
Locations: 5437 Walnut St.—Shadyside (across from Fox's)
4851 MeKnight Rd.—Pgh. 37 (next to McDonald's)
GS TUOFOHLSS Y IOewSp LOUTrL sc Up tiOc sSLLSF LrOH vSH awLr SnUOi SltSFwSHfS
LIVE IT UP — HAVE A BALL — PLAY POCKET BILLIARDS — irS FUN FOR ALL
GrSFS SoSFc right is ladies night

---------------------------------------------------

rase S — CARNEGIE TAKT AM — IfcfctrfiJ, M»y S. MM
mOFLOHp GwH hSSLg 
.SL d .fr,,i ASf,Fep
in 4:43.4 and the two-mile in 
10:36.4. Other first places were 
taken by .Polles, Bednarz. Niedra, 
and Collins in the miie relay, 
Kalogeras in the javelin. Diskin 
in the broad jump, Werroncn in 
the discus, and Crawford in the 
220.
— Photo by Ai HuffmanJoe Thomas enroute to recordnisK ¡n 330 hurdles.
While most of Carnegie Tech was holding Spring Car­
nival on the Midway, behind Morewood Gardens, or in 
Schenley Park, the track team was holding their own car­
nival in the Tech bowl. The warm weather and the fast 
track resulted in two new school records and lopsided victor­
ies at the expense of Geneva and#
St. Francis.
Tony Williams surprised every­
one, including himself, when he 
leaped 6’-l%” in the high jump 
to set a new Carnegie Tech re­
cord in that event. It was a good 
day in the pole vault for Tony 
as well as he vaulted his
best of the season. Joe Thomas 
also cracked the school record in 
the 330 intermediate hurdles, 
flashing across the finish line in 
43.6.
The final team scores were lop­
sided to say the least. The Tar­
tans topped St. Francis by a score 
of 113 to 27 and Geenva by 96- 
42. St. Francis and Geneva could 
only muster up five first places 
between them in the high hurdles, 
the triple jump, the shot put, and 
the 100-yard dash.
Andy Niedra, Carnegie’s mid- 
dle-distance machine was a dou­
ble winner, taking the 440 in 50.8 
seconds and the 880 in 202.8.
Freshman Harry Buckholder also 
won two firsts, taking the mile
Classified Ads
KOOTENANNY!Leara rolk GaitarFred Albitz — Featured at the Casoati and many other Pittsburgh spots — and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood — is giving folk guitar lessons
CaU: 731-1844.
Hushes Scnool of Music.
FURNITURE
to 40% Off
9 x 12 RUGS 
$15 to $49
Chase's
543£ Walnut St.
Next to Shadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.'
Tartan Golfers 
Beat Allegheny 
In Schenley
The Carnegie Tech golf team 
won its third match of the year 
this past week with a to 2Vfe 
victory over Allegheny College. 
This victory moved the team's 
season record to three wins and 
four losses. The Tartans have' 
hopes of winning their last three 
meets with Grove City, Pitt, 
and Duquesne.
Playing on their home course 
for the first time in several out­
ings. the Tartans weathered 
through intermittent high winds, 
and thundershowers to win. In­
dividual match ‘ winners for Car­
negie were Neal DiRito, Dick 
Morrison, and Dale Johnson while 
Dave Kelso salvaged a tie. The 
low rounds recorded by Tech golf­
ers were Morrison and Johnson 
with 80’0 and DiRito with an 81.
Play Cut In 
IM Softball; 
ATO Upset
Spring Carnival, rain, and three 
forfeits limited last week’s in­
tramural softball action to only 
four games.
The big game saw the Trips to 
Win rally for five runs in the 
last inning to topple ATO by a 
score of 7-6. Bill Coleman‘s two- 
out run in the seventh was the 
deciding tally. Undefeated SAE 
and ATO were rained out in their 
big game, but will play later to 
determine who will go into the 
playoffs.
In other games played, the Ma­
rauders nipped PKA 16-14, and 
the Delts topped the Civil Ham­
mers 10-4 with a 5-run outburst 
in the first inning. In jag league 
play, SAE wasted the Ideals by 
a score of 31-10.
There’s a time and place for everything
Right now Shakespeare has you engrossed. But 
when you’ve finished “Romeo and Juliet,” take 
a “telephone break” and call home. Your parents 
would love to hear from you. It means so much 
—costs so little.y
. — Photo by AI lufinitaTarquaits practicing for annual water show.
Tarquans To Present Show; 
Colors To Be Theme In Swim
Tarquans, Tech's synchronized 
swimming club, presents KALEI­
DOSCOPE, their annual water 
show which will be given on Fri­
day, May 8 and Saturday, May 
9 ^at 8:15 p.m. .
Using colors as the theme, the 
men and women in the club have
prepared routines that best show 
the art of synchronized swimming. 
Under the. direction of Jean Me- 
laney and Miss Jane Fisk, KA­
LEIDOSCOPE will unfold its pat- 
terns in the Carnegie Tech pool.
The show is open to the pub­
lic and admission is free.
THE ALPS... made in Italy by FABIANO
Handmade Imported Boots for the Outdoor CA and Woman.
STYLE #436
For Men or Women. 
Suede Rock Climbing and 
Hiking Boot. Leather 
lined. Padded Quarter and 
Tongue, Vibrom lug soles. 
Men’s N ond L—6 to 12 
(Cocoa Brown only). Ladles 
M—5 to II in Ihese Fashion 
Colors: #4364 — Cocoa
Brown, #4361 — Gr«en, 
#4362—Red, #¿365 — 
Gray.
$14.95plus
FABIANO SHOE CO.. INC.DEPT. N, SOUTH STATION BOSTON 10, MASS.
Girl talk. Boy talk.
All talk goes better refreshed. 
Coca-Cola — with a lively lift 
and never too sweet — refreshes best..
things gobetter,|_
WW1U1Coke
Bottled under Uta authority ol Tha Coc«Col« Company byi
Quaker Slate Coca-Cola BoUlinf Conpiar
