VOL.'XXI NO. JOCARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 26, 1927
STUDENT BODY
STUDEDNB ONY
CONSTITUTION
Many Important Changes 
Voted on, Including- Equal 
Representation ; of S c h 0 01 s
BUDGET COMMITTEE 
TO BE SUB-DIVIDED
Men's, W. A. À. and Night 
School Lose Bepresenta- 
tion In Student Coimoil.
At tie Special Assembly, which tt&b hew on Friday, April 8th in the Carnegie Union, the student body present uoanimoueiy voted to 
raUfÿ thé aew constitution of the Student Council. Among: the more important changes is the allot­
ment of flve representatives from each college and the dropping 0f 
tho representatives from the Men’s Athletic Association, Women’s 
ahft.“' i's°cia““1 “a Night 
Formerly there were five repre­
sentatives from the Margaret Mot- riBop Caroogte College, flve repra- »«Jtnuves from the College or Fine 
Arts, four from the CoUese ot In- duatrlea » and four from the Col- 
logo of Engineering. To-m^t the demand lor equal representation 
. fro“ all colleges and to prevent the . Council from being too l»*» 
and unwieldly, the colleges,of En!elneeMBB u4 the Oolle6e „( Iodus.- 
tries were each given an additional
ÎSS1”? “d tts «»«»»aiesmentioned above were not elve& 
representation.As the. Student Council had had 
few matters arising which were of
ÏÏFïîhw. bn"1 9tUient CiüncU and Athlotlc Council, or both stu­dent Council and Night • Student Council, it was decided that when- ever those matters should arise 
they could- be more easlly.handled
tor th^8C 4,C0nmiUtee aPPolhted for that particular purpose wJth- 
out having permanent rebreBenLa
th?^^“/110“6 bod,c>8 BlttlDS Jn the Student Council •}n Article IV,t section 2 (a) V 
retemng id . the . election of the 
°f tb6 StUderit Co»acH a change has also been made o»»
ChT°: by' r>a^t::eac*- a.chooL...Thfi Stiidebi
the list ot candidates by a malorltr o e. The thrçe defeated casdl. datea automatically hecoioe or„. dent of the Senate JQ üielr n-- 
Which A?“"6«- TKs «liege IromWhich be ptejldeit elect Is choaen olecu the MesldeBt or m eenato
When the other oficers of that lege are chosen, ia the old mb. 
tor th«“.hll,ete ”* «WI.IOO£ th. cïn^ “Wastes,
representative of the <*<,!« ot 
T? V st'lil>'<t Council. 'iÎVT *»“ «r-
U.e Snell
ahli0».“”'? Mslsta»‘ sacretar/ea cial«, \ >,ected from tte Junior Class of Margaret' Morrison r**,
oTtha^’r br,, that college. The old conatltu* Uon »TOyiûeâ for tfae
,hf „ ree «ssiaiant secretaries by
M£,rrtso» Student
nSm.?T “ ,lst « «««¡Mates™ Î « bi tho »¡'¦«ctor of Afar- garet-Morrison College._ The president of the Slaàant Couhcl], the' president of t?>e Sen­ate in each college and the prear-
in fif °,ace e*“M as provided to this constitution, 
daiî «'«««on of prest-oTîi.iï. Student Council, t!le candidate receiving the Ueh.. rat number oi votes shall be vice- çresldont of the Council. Pre- «ously a separate election was ke d for the office of vice-president 
In regard to tlie duties of the (Continued on Page Tour )
College Party to Return 
Goodwill Trip to Rumania
Under the auspices of the Insti­tute or. Roumanian Culture of Cor lumbla University and the Carne, eie Endowment for ' International Peace, arrangements are- .being made for a party of professors: and studente to visit Roumonia during . the coming summer and Tepay -.the visit that was made to. the United . States last year by a party ót Roumanian professors and stu­dents.It Is -Intended, that this party - vlU leave New Tort on the »Hoi- \ land American! SS.. yólendam , on Jone 11, and -reach' Boulogne about June 20. The party will éteÿ three ‘days In Paris, and then proceedto Roumonla, stopping off: at,-Vienna . and Budapest. It "will remain about, threp weeks. In Roumanta .audwlll. be given exceptional op. 
ypoftunltles.to travel In all sections •:;^>f Uie, country and familiarize Itself v-with1 the òutstandljig featùres..óf Roumaoian>llfe and-actlvltles, both cultural -'and' Industrial; •'! On ;V; Its 
way homei/.the /party wlir Btop at 'Prague ;and Leipzig and-, remain four days -'iniHoliand! It-wlil salì ^back to. America on the S9" Volen- . 'dam from Rotterdam òiì‘A'ugust ;S.and will' Teach New York about ! .August 12.' •'
GENERAL O. W, OHAIEMAN
DONALD DALTON
Plans Complete For 
Modern Decoration 
Of 8th Campus Week
Fountains Columns, Murals 
To be Features, Work 
is to Start Now
Modern Decoration for the Mod­ern Coljege! The choice of the General Planning Committee Is as appropriate as It will be colorful. .Completed plan's submltted to the Construction Committee indicate that the campus appearance will rival the colorful absurdities of the Arts Ball.
Tho outstanding characteristic Is an Impression of size. Plans call for tall fountains and tall columns. A bevy of laTge murals In the mod* orn theme, which implies contrast and striking brilliancy, w|ll be hung In the gymnasium and the Union. Decoration will be concentrated In the more strategic spots, rather than an attmepted but incomplete ornamentatton/All the details will be effectively worked out to pro­duce tho most .finished appearance.The street lights will not be or­namented this year., Effect Is the primary object of campus decora* tlon, and' since adornment of the steel poles of our thoroughfare! 'serves but to present a rather maudlin . appearance,, the commit^ tee this year has decided to discon­tinue .the practice.Other planar for Campus Week are reaching' their final stage of de^sljajmeptiv.Sltea are-.belag'-dl*. enssed for the \Country Fair; Inas­much' as the ueual lot on Forbes street cannot be used this year. It is expected that nearly' every fra­ternity will have stunts, this year.- The vaudeville, under the direc­tion of Pete Rygg, lias more avail* ablo material than It can lake care of. A number of songs and sketches have • been written by
The coronation play has been written and the coetumes are un*
At' the meeUng of the -Student 
Council last Tuesday, R. P. Bui* 
Unger, Editor-in-Chlet ot the FuP- 
pet was removed from olllce, and 
the Editor-elect and the entire 
staff of the publication were placed 
on probation for the rest of Che 
school year. No reason lor the ac­
tion of the Council has been made
.In a letter to the members of 
the, stall,' dated April, 20. the mo- 
as proposed and carried was 
eta ted-. "Motion carried that the 
Editor-In-Chief of the ‘‘Puppet’' be 
aoved from office,; and that the 
>v „ Editor-In-Chief and staff be 
probation for the rest of tlie 
¡sent school year; that if the 
isod staff and its actions are satisfactory, the staff shall be disbanded.”At a meeting of the Staff last Friday, a new editor' was elected;', his name will be announced later, if approved by the dounclL The removal of Bulllnger from Difice comes just at the eve of the Issuing of the well advertised 'Alilmnl'' Number of the “Puppet,” out today noon on’ the campus, representing sevoral months work m the part of the deposed editor uid bis staff. Although the Issue, went to press under the old. regime, < it appears-today with the sanction of the cdltor-cloct, who assumes •sponsiMUty for its publication. Apropos this "Alumni” lesue, ie cover design has been drawn by Larry Stultz, former Carnegie 
ian, whose designs for the Hup- tobile advertisements - have been :tractlng attention in the circles ’here colored design is noticed and discussed. Slultz Is only one if a number' of Carnegie alumni 
ivHo are contributing to' today’s asue. There will’ be 52 pages In | the number. Practically all the copy has been sent in by graduates. |
R. 0. T. C. Hold Drill 
Competition T h u r s-.
C. W. VODVIL CHORINES 
PLAN MANY FEATURES
Design Stage Setting, Costumes 
for Thursday Performance.
The Campus Week Vaudeville
Slio'Lainlyresslng.
lettingsPlans for costum 
and designs are being formulated 
under the guidance of Pete Rygg, 
chairman of the show. Agnes Bit- 
taker has charge of the costum^ desiguing and she Is turning .-out some very effective creations.Corue work 01 progressing rap­idly under tlie charge of Victor Esker. Training a chorus is very difficult and Mr. Esker deserves a great deal of credit for obtain­ing such wonderful results. The chorus for the show will be so well done that it will rival the Arts Ball chorus, that was considered so
The prologue of the show has heen completed and' will be pre­sented at the show by Ruth Aston and Robert Pike. Pike Is also do­ing the lead In “The Devil’s Den” the Campus -Week Show,' Pete Rygg has written a very , novel song, '"Malndy Lee1' that will be sung by Carleton Toung. accom- panled ’.by a unique trto consisting of piano; banjo and .soprano-’'saxo­phone. A song and dance, -"Why 
Do; The Boys Hang Around He/’ will be presented by Tillle Copas andv the Varsity Boys. Practically all of -the songs and acta for the show were written by. Pete Rygg, and he will personal!/slog “I Pre­fer The Red' Headed. CchEd.*’ Pete will 'accompany,' the song with' a charming'little jdance.', Caleb Hornbostle, Tom Lewis, Leo .Mitchell and: Felix .McClure will present an acrobatic aet that is'’both ; humorous and . -clever. Herman -Greenberg - is ' doing- a sketch,, which- contains aT great 
many tense moments.One of the- highlights' of the evening will bo MUs Ruth Parrott’ presentation of several lovely
Oskar Norbeck will! present 
pantomlne “Dumb" - act-and' Theta Tail ..wlll> glyo . tliolr ' ennual Theui; Tau has not as yet divulged the secret or nature bf \thelr, act,: all tfie? will say 'la- that- It will be bjggfr 6nd better than it year.- •'. - ./Tom
BU LUNGER IS 
REMOVED AS 
PUPPET HEAD
Chief Editor Ousted, StafT¡ 
On Probation on Eve 
of Alúmni Issue
Screen Tests Stir 
National Interest
The annual competitive drill of the Carnegie R. O. T. C. will be held Thursday on the “cut” - at 11:30. instead of the usual com­bined military drill. The three en­gineering companies and' the sig­nal corpB will compete ! for the honors of being the best drllted
Each cadet commander will put s commandery through a series of ovements of his own choice, and will be judged by a board of three officers from the city of Pitts­
burgh.. The board will consist of >nel Brambila, assistant chief- staff of the Niuety-nlnth Di­on; Colonel Dunlap, command, oftfccr of thelOne Hundred and enty-sixth Weld ArUltery, Na- al Guard of Pennsylvania, and ¿tenant Barney, on duty in,the ted States Engineer’s offices, be company winning In the competition will b.e presented with i silk guidon, which will be car- led by them foi(Coii Pagewo)
Mellon Group to Hold a 
Formal This Fri. April 29
Following • a slight lull In the calendar. of social events of Ihe Girls’ Dorms, Mellon - Hall an­nounces its annual spring dance, a formal, to be held this Friday, April 29th, at the dormitory. The hours are from 9-12:30. and tho decorations wlli be la keeping with the spring seslon'. The Collegiate Imps, a popular campus orchestra, will play. The chaperons will be VOL. Hyde and Miss Hoffman ' Mellon Annex and Mellon Hall ai Dean Green.It has been the custom, up un a fow years ago, for the Mell< Group to give a spring formal. .Of late years, however, the practi< of holding a spring dance, an I formal one, bad be£n substituted for the other one, so tbat this y< the dance will be somewhat of Innovation; not only because of the :breach in;custom,but also because of the Interesting program the. so- clarcommittee! In charge le arrang- 
'ing/ . V'" :
subscription at the Tartan offl< Room-.12 In the Industries build: Ing, from 11:30 to 1': 30. every, noon: The prlce of the Thistle 1s $4.50, but-subscribe» : .mayN sign: upV.for ,the year book on payment of one doliar, tb« rest.- to be pald later. : The-Thistle‘sums up the actlvl- ties ’or iheV'campus ac'tlWties: i&r the year, and Is an Interesting d< 
ument to have:in later years.vwheii one’s college'days have almost ta'd- ed from memory.
Mysteries of “The Devil’s Den”
Excite the . Inquiring Reporter
“Who Is the Devil?" The re­
porter didn't know and he wanted 
to find out. /' “What about tho 
startling mystory of the cold­
blooded handing on the balcony?” 
The producer smiled, with his 
most engaging, dramatic ' smile, 
and shook hie head. Such persons 
don’t like to divulge-their fondest 
secrets. Instead, the reporter loft, ore mystified than before.What had the uninvited guest to > with the key to the secret door? id the poisoning—who had placed the deadly cyanide In the Whis­key? Really, could .the existento if such a famous Don Juan be d? ;ecret from anybody? The Book1 f Etiquette couldn’t explain the. situation, and the two tbieves. mrely wouldn’t.'' And—who is'liie •Devil?
>, tho producer, would not tell.' t wait.” he suggested, v He,J did, however, admit that V'Tba.: Devil's Den” would certainly-pnvf < superior to every other$Campm!
Week show in ') 
negle Tech.•; The-first rehearsal of Janney’; new play was held last Sunday 1i Langley Lab, where all prepara­tions for it will lake place. Mr. Janney has been In Pittsburgh much of the time supervising production, and it .Is quite likely 'lhat he will remain until aftor the ;two-nlght run: A distinguishedgroup of New York producers at critics will be hero for the eboi .Ing.' The regalar. Nixon Theat< 'orchestra has been engaged for both play nights, and the tlckots, whlch liave bèen printed, will'be ready for early distribution.
1 Mr. Janney wtote 'The Dovll’ Den” this spring’and of all the plays considered, the Campus Week Committee thought It by ft .thé best Last year's succès '’’Loose Ankles,” was by the sam 'author and Mr. Janney' Is said t :be planning a similar career for “The Devil’s Den” by taking New York for a run on Broadway
COUNTRY FAIR TO 
GIVE ‘STUNT CUPS’
Effort to Obtain Collegiate 
Material For Movies 
Meets Approyal
Nationwide interest In thp colle* ate world has been aroused by First National and College Humor’s imbined effort to recruit collegb en in the movies. Interesting imments on this movement have been pubUshed In leading college jwspapers In the country. - The Dally Princetontan asserts at First National Is planning thlB impalgn to make "their college pictures approach the real condi­tions of campus life more-closely. 'College pictures have hitherto been lurid representations of In­sipid youths In wide pants and coats, with a passion for rac­ers and all-night parties,, to nothing of glorious dtps In cn pools and four-.course breakfast served in true ..hotel ityle.".“The attempt.sounds slnceré" W he Minnesota Dally. “It has none ot the glamour of the.'Beauty-Coàr test* publicity, and none ' ot-''.the balderdash.Ihat promleeB-a rapid *lse to fame and'fortune. -It slpai )ly - 'states. Itself aa .almlng tO '.fiq-! simllate collège men .:lùÊô' a. bns’l“ ness that, carries rewards.for head srk and -personality. . College! en and business. must. work to>! ttber in every endeavor. . A^id. this is the. movie’s attempt to co­operate.”
All publications, - Including the itlmable sponsor, College Humor, agree that this campaign Is a aerl- movement designed to benefit (Continued on Page Two)
The Cut, Instead of Forbes 
St. Field, Will,be Scene 
of Country Fair
SCABBARD AND BLADE 
MEN TO SPONSOR TOUR
Members of the local chapter of 
Scabbard and Blade, national mill* 
honorary fraternity will be 
an opportunity to tour Eu-
i setting of Uie' Campus 
Week Country Fair, has been 
changed from the ForbeB street 
as previously announced, to 
Cut.” Here, the boys’ dor­
mitories as well as the girls’ dorms 
id the fraternities, will present 
ants on a Mg platform whtcb 
will be built In the center of the Fair. ,Even' tents have been or­dered by the committee. In which j hold the various events; and
oe for the best fraternity stunt, ad.one for the prize Mens' Dorm ;unt In addlUon to these awards the cap which Is given every year girls’ dorm, will again be pre- id to the dorm whose girls i to be the cleverest and most original.BeBldeB these events, there, will i Individual stunts, with “fake” >ps as directors;' stock exhibits and acrobatic exhlblUons. An old fiddler wlll'greetus from the wilda ot Virginia, .and those , who attend the :ialr will dance the old* faehioned 'sqbare 'dance,' the Paul and a Scottish Sword dance. The -clown- band, 'at last chosen, will send- forth glad tidings of the biggest, best, and greatest freak show on the face of. the earth, while the greased pig gambols er the grounds. . - 'Novelties, favors and samples of great variety will be. given, awe the falr-goers, by buslnet houses and firmB In Pittsburgh.) will be plenty for all, those who come-should bring auto* ibiles in which to "carry .home 
the bacon.”The prlee events of t,he Country Fair are to be judged by "Cap." Dosey, chairman of the committee;Griffis, Mr, Daniels, and Mrs. Kirkpatrick and Mrs. Cronna, from tho girls’ dorms.
i by i¦ this
Ip sponsored by the national 
inizatlon for-Its-members.The group will leave New York a July 2, aboard the S.. S. Levi­athan for. Cherbourg, France, pro- 
there' to the St Cyr lemy. ,ACter visiting the magnificent -palaces >of Hi chateau country of Fraoco, the Route dea Alpes, famous'military road, will lead the party to Nice, Italyfs military schools, Its his­toric scenes, its beauty spots, and a art centers will be visited, after hich the party will go to Swltt erland. The route will- then lead the beautiful Rhineland with peaceful farm country and pic- isque dismantled N fortresses, m the north coast of Germany, the 'Itinerary will lead the party England'where they will visit) England’s, military schooli
the
ago under the name of th< e, becoming national In the spring of last year. At prés« Includes' 21 men enrolled in the R. O. T. C. course. .........
The Women’s Banquet during Campus- Week will be. held " this .year in-the Carttèglè'inn day.- May. 13th, at 8:30. p. m. This is alwayqv quite' an affair, for ' thé alumni as. well: as . for the students and all the/glrls .on the campus urged to' attend. - .Tickets'-will-'be on' sale soon at tl.25 eac There will be entertal: speeches during .the'coursé of the banquet. A ; definite - program hde not-, yét .been-; arranged but the - en­tertainment. wlll.conelat of stunts or of.: special .- musical- numbers. There wlll be tallm by some ot th« alumni and. students.' T A- welcome to. the alumni will be:glven aud response .made by one of the i Geneviève' Connorq, "prest- Morur Board, .will he- ’ i for the .evening.; Mari Nuttall la the:chairman of the mittee, aided, bye Ruth'. Dawson and- Agnos.Blttaker,
The terrible suspense Is i 
rer! All the curiosity and 
ty which has pervadejl the c 
for the last month will be 
pated after the elections
Between the hours of 
12:30 and 1:30 Carnegie 
iltely docide which of-the three air seniors shall occupy the < lable position of Campus Que for 1927.
Each, of tho three candidates extremely poputar so the outcome the balloting promlsss tc close. Consequently it ,behocat to vote for the lady of bis choice so that the girl elect- actually repro6ent "the will of the majority. Nevertheless
irrles this principal too and votes more than onco In their enthusiasm for a representa- Campus Queen. The usual
the ballot box will be employed guard against this tendency.Coronation ' orrongements are well under way. The sotting has finally been decided upon and the to the main entrance of ,tbe iaium /will be the scene of »remony. It Is thought tbat this plan will enable a large crowd witness the ceremony with lit* tie difficulty. The bank opposite rm will provide ample room k good vantage point—much better, probably than the sloping ground around the sylvan theater which was used as a setting last
The hour Ib again sot for Quarter -twelve - Thursday evening of Campus Week find Is designed to a fitting climax to the Coro­nation Boll. Lee Hilltchell has written the-pageant-wblch will ne> ipany the ceremony, but slnco ho is also, designing .the sets for the shoyr, it may be necessary for Don ^Wilson- to take over the- actual (Continued on Page Two)
CLASS LACROSSE TO 
COMMENCE NEXT WEEK
-lvalry. Practice, which started last week on the cut, will contlnu< ¡very night through the entir
So far the turnout has con listed mostly of Juniors am Seniors, there being' very . fe\ Freshmen- or Sophomores whi put In an appearance.. It is the Freshmen who are especially ¡quested to turn out for Lacrosse, ther L. players or as managers. Starting in this manner the. first year 'will enable them to 'devol years to this sport. Membei of the wlnping team are awarded numerals, making, it one of thi
ioes, are furnished to the play­'s by. the school.As ,In tho preceding season, alt of the gqjmes will be played be- veen' the various classes;' there lil' tie no 'vanity team. State CoUege ls the newest school hav­ing a lacrosse team, which makes pensive to bring contest­ing teams here to play' a. varsity, one.was foraeti. ..The.,first game will, be wlthji e next two weeks,.and there will 
be at least two ¿ames played-dur- loi Campus ^éet.All of these imes will be plàÿeà'on the cut :' in tlie biwl.. /V; • .LacrôSBè is a game which 
qulrea.- even- more ; endurance--, dexterlty than footbail. There.12-.'men on . a team, and the game is played, on. a field about the same stze as that-needed for footbi 
The 30-minûte halves- . combined with the chances .for teamworkl 
and experience In handling, the ball makes it-a sport which'.-ist-hlghly interesting,.' bothto witness : and to: Play.
Winter .^ark,'Fla.—(I,P.)—That he. wants .to-be. the-first college president In the United- States to overpay >¦ his;;professors;': is the declaration of Hamilton Holt, .'re­cently .Inaugurated - as président'of | Rollins coliege. here,
FINAL CAMPUS 
QUEEN BALLOT 
WED. AT NOON
To Use Steps of Gymnasium 
as Setting For Coronation 
Exercises
A taken to) thatCirculation in Durmitories 
and Fraternities is 
Well Under. Way
The big foature of the annual 
campus week burlesque 'sheet, 
Tho Squeak,” will.be the elabor* 
>te picture section. . The current 
happenings of the week of feBllvl- 
wlll be depicted In plotures 
that will be exceptionally enters 
talnlng. The paper will 'feature 
that will, rival that of thé 
best humorous publications of the 
day. .
The “Squeak” will be managed 
and published by thé representa- 
of PI Delta Epsilon, mon’s 
honorary journalistic. fraternity 
and Alpha : Chi Alpha,, women’s 
journalistic honorary. Early In 
the morning on' tho day of féBtlvl* 
i tho paper, will be distributed 
each subscriber.- For the con­
venience of city students, papers ’111 be sold throughout campus ’eek at two. booths that will be locatèd-. bn thé campus; " V :
Girls’ Glee Club to 
Sing at Vandergrift
The Girls’ Glee Club will give a first outof-town ' concert, this year on Friday, April 2a, at Vaa- dergrift, Pa„ in the high. eohool ludltoiium there. The affair Is under the' auspices of one of the ¡hurches of Vandergrift and the members have " promised ire of the girls over night Thè mcèrt has been postponed ber of times on account of school, .ctlvities here, but at last ’enlent date has been et for the girts. The ontlre Glee Club will be taken to Vandergrift In i, *whlch will be sent down late Friday afternoon. After be- shown the town Saturday •ning the glrls-wlll be. driven back to".Pittsburgh. It Is rumored that there will be entertainment for tho girls following the proi and they are anticipating a enjoyable time.Meredith Stump, vlollnlat, ..will > with the glee club and partlc* lpate In tho program. The program follows:I. (a) The Virginia Slumbei Song .................... Max Reger(b) Indian Cradle Song..........H. Alexander Matthews(c) The Years at' the Spring .........Mrs. H. H. A. BeachGlee Club.Vocal solo........Lucille HoughIII. Violin solo... .Meredith StumpIV. (a) Persian Serenade................H." Alexander Matthewi(b) Sweet and Low............................... .. .Joseph Bàmby(c) My Little Banjo....... Wm. DlchmontjGlee Club.V. Reading.......Mary FarbaughVocal solo...... .Marlon PowellVII.'Violin Solo, i .Meredith Stump VIII: (a) Twenty-Eighteen.............. .English Folk SoniAn. by Deems Taylor. ' Soloist', Marion Pòwell.(b) The Green Cathedral.............................Carl HahnGlee Club.IX. Vocal solo... .. .Evelyn HeldX. Plano'solo........
......^..-Margaret GallagherXI. (a) Shepherd Mine Own.. French 'air, 18th century.• ' Àrr. by Deems Taylor. ' Soloist, Evelyn Held;'"(b) Wake; Thee Now Dear- eat. .Czeclio’Slovak 'FolkSong :Air. by Deeins'Taylor.Glee Club.XII. - Alma Matef.".-' "
This Y.'. W. C, ;A, -is asking th« students - of, Arts and Margaret Morrison to : . contribute clothing and bric..a -bra'c,vin' fact anything' for their rummage'sale which will be held on ^Saturday, April 30. The proceeds of'this sale wlll'be used, to ptfy-.the-expenses of the*Eagle< mere'. iConferehce ' and ' for • the| Scholarship Fund.-. Those who have anything to con­tribute should sign the lists on the bulletin,boards In the two’schools before Wednesday;' and someone | will call-for' the '.things' late
WALTEB B. ROGERS
CARTOONS WILL 
FEATURE CAMPUS 
WEEK PAPER
their completed plans-this week.Subscriptions will ,; be ' solicited by the circulation staff. They will canvaa- tha.mon’a.-.'i„ani,.,.wpmen.’a. dormltoTles .and . the fraternity' s. Fifteen cents, will, tie col­lected In ^advance from, each ; atu* .This trivial sum wlil enll* tie him. to. three. deUvereil! Issues bf; the "Squeak.” /It. le expected that very near a hundred- per cont 'subscription will be' obtained be­cause .there Is always . a demand for this highly enterUlnlog publl* cation.i staff for .this Campus Week is composed of Art Seidels,’ editor! Peg' Russell' and Florcncg Me Lau^hlln, associates; Mark Sei­bert business manager;: - Milt Cohen, circulation' manager; Bill K^'nlkie, ’advertising.' Under, the
NIGHT COURSES WILL 
CLOSE FRIDAY APRIL 29
Night courses . at the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology will
next. Friday night, April 
29, after what has bean,. 1n point of enrollment, the .most success­ful year In. the history of the Inatl- The final, enrollment is 3,645 night students for' this yeai This Is a'galn.,of 394 over tho total the end of the'preceding night 
college year ¡'and Is : the. largest night, school enrollment, at 
negle ^Ince evening: courses established 21 years ago.. - A supplementary night ter studente who wish to cither make up certain work or., to work off subjects that will fall due 1n their egular schedules for next year, will be- given for two months fol? lowing the close of the regular ollege year next Friday.;\Thls ilari, which was Inaugurated last jjear.'.ls' .meetlng' wlth such a re spouse, that ' lt will ' probably bi adopted' as ’ a' fixture In ' the regular program at -Carnegie,
PLEBE PROM IS 
TO COMMENCE 
AT 11:30 TODAY
Judging Will Take Place, in 
the Assembly Rpoms of 
thb Respective Colleges
WILL EXEMPT 35-40 
PLEBES AT AFFAIR
Sophomores, NewBpaper Men, 
B. O. T. O. and Olown, 
Band To Aid Plebea.
11::30 this . morning the ' Plebes appoar In costumo, in an effort to gain a reloaee from regu* latlons for the reinalndor of tho -The Judging.is .to take placo immediately, In tho various aesem»: ooms aftor whloh there will bo the parade, headed by n clown band. Tho ceremonies will ond with a skit, given In tho gym., The.Plebes nro to bo.oxcused from tiieir classes at 11:10 A. M., they will go to the locker
1 P. M., and may not bo worn ly o.lQBSee.' participation by f the Plebea la1, compulsory, ond those falling to appbnr will be brought up for trial by tho Sopho* raoreB the following week. Tho- coBtumes must cover all portions of the body, bathing suits ond gym ' 
suits boltkg' barred. 'Ae the Plebes appear before, the isemblod upper classtaen, the choice of the beBt costume wlll'be : denoted by the amount of ap­plause. - Six or eight ot both Engi­neering and Industries Freshmen- 111 be given exemptlve .cards, as>. 
rill' a like, number of women inv Mnrgnret Morrison ' College. All told, about ten will-receive-cards the . Collogo of Fino'Arts. The Industries and Engineering.Plebes . will roport. to the. same ossombly, n ^thot their socLions.^report to1 trial. Tho. others report' to the itnbly rooms of their respeotlve, 
colleges.The parade will be formed at: the Langley Lab,. from where the - procession, will march down1 Wood-., lawn..avenue snd -flnally ^ to the' gym. Here,-under tho dirocttoa of the Plebe Prom committee,, a ten minute-Bklt wlll- be" given-:.. NewBpapers and movie, photogm- ' pherp will be proseat, to take plc^
GIRlS’ SWEEPSTAKES 
WILL BE SKATE RACES
This year the Girls' Sweepstakes ico will be a relay roller skating ice. The .courser will , 'X laia out from Margaret-Morrison to the Central; building and back again- Any girl .who wishes may offer her
:tlce' which will bo held In the from now until tho day of the
___i. We hope no one'will be nr- ;rested for speeding by. tho park policeman.' The. candidates who ihow the most skill and .have the least, number, of spills will-, be se­lected to ekate In the race.Many unique costumes are being, planned for the occasion, just what they^ will be ia still a secret Naturally .a prizo 'wUl.-be awarded .the winner of the raco and an­
other prize will be given I
¦sent their group. will be an* tunced In, a future, edition, of .the. Tartan. In the meantime the girls shoutd show Boma Interest come out for practice so that the Girls’ Sweepstakes will prove;. as IntcresUng and thrilling as the Men^s races.'The committee. 1n .charge ls: os follows: Chairman, Adele'Hahn;Forbes Hall, Louise Roy;. Mellon Hall, 6ara Hullck; Forbes. Street, DormQ, Gertrude Zenk; . Wood- lawn - Dorms,.."Annabel .Wtlght;, Margaret . Morrison . Commuters, itiiy Roy; Arts. -Commuters;- 
Margaret' Deeley. _____________f
Rare Pennsylvania Flowers Now 
On Display at Carnegie’ Museum
Plants which once bloomed^ in I 
the' wooda and fields'.of Western ^ 
Pennsylvania have disappeared 
with the advent of' maji, Into 'their 
domain. ' A 'group of these.' have been collected and: placed on dis­play ’/at...the ..^arnegie .Museum. Rare and almos^éEtioct, they> are viewed >b ' curiosities ?in what was once their native habitat --The.'.A^Hcan 'Glnseiigl'Plén^ Is an' Intere8t'lng'~gr'owth^ ; 'In"':'ap-' peaTance It. reaembles a'wéed. - .'Ac- cordluB' to Chinese' medicine men, this; plant>has remarkable, healing properties;','"-, consequently..:.- i t: sumed;. economic Importance a: export ;to. China, and has adapted itself with little difficulty to" the new; environ ment ' There. , was" a t1mé;;%*íi¿n- numerous» •“sang', hun- 
tcrs/J-' asHheV --were... called;^ could in' tho foréaü 'dlgglng for.
distorted, . moBf ; résembled ” the figure of ¿ man, then; Its.; healing 
power was. greatest.' :- Tbla splant ,1s
A variety of 'the orchid, called the “Showy'- Orchis". Ib now yery rare ,, hero.. „ Another - interesting , specimen'voisi^hlbltlon) is. the 'fWalkliig .Feri^.', Like the straw* \ borry the 'eilds'.of the leaives.pf this.-! (¿ni aiwp ,dowhwai<!al7and:\take ; 
rodt In-* the soir. ' causing, an ever*. . traveling sucfiesBlok' of planjts. The nodding. tTillum, _ . that. ' Shy variety whose' flo'srers . hide under : the.-leaves, can also'he'.! found ...In; the collection;- The • Yellow/Pasf: 
slon "flower was last seea-in this'. Ideality ‘"In • Hdmflstead.*: - Aloiig v with'-jthe- Shooting' Star,;-;jie i CoivV 
non 'Camus Root,. which . thee pi-;. < dlans. UBed fdr iood^^aiid tie Com^

---------------------------------------------------

CATERING ' 
Prices Reasonable
That oar Refreshment 
Entertainment is most de- 
sirable for Fraternity and 
* all other School Affairs, 
experience- Trill' convince.
Small orders receive the 
same careful attention as 
the more extravagant
FRANK BROTHERSlififtAnflueBool Siiop.
Permanent exhibit Shop 
Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh
Tlie position of Etage manager will be a very. Responsible Job and In consideration of this fact ibe itago managership will b.e. under 
the control or the capable Mr. Ken- leth Mnlbolland. 'Although the program for the hcnrla practically complete there Is still epaee for an exceptional ketch and a novelty dancer, with tl ' 
. Vanif Review, the committee' In charge Is planning lo have some good orchestra to help' fill In. At ;ent they have nnt decided what îestra they., will acquire. There 
i possibility that the "Collegl- Imps” will be the favored band.
' WED. AT NOON
(Continued from Page One) , .direction of the play. The period ibosen for the entire ceremony- is Aztec,' -although the costumes of Queen a
’ ELLIOTT’S 
‘ 4010 Fifth Ave. 
Storeis Convenient 
for Students’ 
Supplies
Our branch t
borhood studente and la stock« with merchandise' their studies.
We reciprocate your
of neigh' Is stocked squired In
Oakland
Savings fi Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
“The Oakland Bank”
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----$300,000.00
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
In Later Life
'elop financial/Inde- 'he wcoerlence, to loney Itself,i later IUo. you.
In and talk It <
MeMMoMBanfcih. Pa.
Pittsburgh Clan’s Monthly 
Luncheon Saturday Alay 7
i next monthly luntheon the Pittsburgh Clan Is stated for .turday, May 7, ot the William Penn Hotel. The success or the wo presageB a good turnout 
for this one, and the committee reels confident that the luncheons 111 continue. The monthly lunch- 
on is held In addition lar weekly luncheons 
days. ,
an addition
being planned, which Will not be jng, but Just enough to en- the luncheon. A piano will 
be on band so. that "Dear Old Tech.” "Fight For Tbo Glory of Carnegie,” and the other songs of
There are nev t the luncheoi 
spoke i
Theatre Tips
SCHENLEY THEATER
An unusually fine program of ature pictures and stage attrac- 
''IN have been booked for ap- >arance at.the Stanley-Rowlasd- ark Schenley, Forbes street, Oakland district, tbls week.
r bad j¦ould j1 IIti
April luncheon George President of t Electric Steet Compì Interesting talk
son and Arts are urged to grace ie luncheon with their presence this next one, as they have not ;en very numerous at the two
Being held the Saturday before Campus Week, will bo an excel- :hance to strike up acqualn- 3 for Campus Week, and of the plans for 'Campus Week will also probably be dls:.3.' So all you local alumni, let’s go.
> Schenley on Wednesday and Thursday,-April 27th and 28tb, for ice. an answer 01 provided. Old Dr. Faust sells bis soul to the in exchange for his youth, a youth In whicb be lived solely for knowledge, and allowed “life’' to him by.
ten the destinies of three two women, great political ss and a whole state hang on the shoulders ot one beautiful ig girl there’s sure to be plenty itrong drama, and those who 
"The Telephone Girl” at the lley-RowIand-Clark Schenley on Frtday^and Saturday, April 29th ad 30th, -¡sill get Just tiiat—
Church of the Ascension(Episcopal)_______
Cor.” Ellsworth' and Neville ’
for full particulars . Áddrei 
Carnegie Tartari, Carnéale Tèi
REGAL Direct! 
University Service 
from Coast to Coast
h
Come In and look over the new Regal line of special 
college models. They are recognized as the standard 
of style and value from 
coast to coast.
The Shoe illustrated is the Eli—an English Brogue in 
Genuine Imported T*an 
Heather Grain. The alngle 
hole perforations are a new 
etylo Feature—also in 
Black. "
"RESCO" FièttniServio« ueod ezolua/vefy.
REGALSHOES
v OmDUtb} '
Represented by
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men’s, $6.00—Color: Grey.Women’s, $6.60t—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
. '- red.Auf hammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE ,
ALUMNI PAGE
First Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Firth Avenue Sunday. 11'A. M. and 8 P. M. Wednesday, ,8 P. M. Sunday School. 11 A. M.
C. W. Luncheon to be 
At,Hotel Schenley
Show, Coronation and Other 
Features Under Way 
For Big Week
> Jusl
i Wedm
>rtaim
ampue Week has er week closer. -Money Is be- saved, dates being made, and irything Is being prepared to | make th.|g be, as have been the there, the greatest and best Cam-
By the time this issue reaches rour hands, the 1927 Campus Jueen will have been elected, and >lans will be under way; for her coronation on Thursday night, May 12. The Campu6 Week show, is announced last week, will be 'The Devils Den, ,a specially pre-. jared mystery play • by Sam Jan- ney, the author of last year’s pro-The pia:a fitting, thrilling, clli pus Week. The cast has already 
been chosen, and Walt Ri getber with the rest of bis staff; are .already beTd at work
The show will be held town at the Nixon Theater, where It Is felt the facilities for proper stage Eettlags ire superior to tho of the past. Two performanc will be given, Friday and Saturd; nights. This will enable tho il who cannot remain he Saturday to see^the play Friday. nlgbL Half the. hout red for alumni <
5 drama. Holbrook Blinn Madge Bellamy, Warner Baxter ay Allison and Lawrence Gra: e featured. The story Is a tali politics.On Monday and Tuesday, Maj id and 3rd,.Viola Dana and Ken ith Harlan will be Btarred ' li 'he Ice F]ood”'dlrected ty Geo ' Seitz from tho. story of John ?ne McCulley. The stillness anc ilm of the great forest, th<
ind the whole healthy atmosphere >f out-of-door6 has been incor- >orated In the malting of this pic-
am'of the latest songs and danci nes with plenty of youtb, pep d beauty as the outstandlnj features. The syncopators will bi he entire week of May 2nd.
The bill at the Schenley changed ' each Monday, Wediind Friday. Interesting short films, including ' comi ind novelty fill
1 dally from 2 t< rklng space for automobiles Is plentiful.
STRAND THEATER.
B. De Mllle’e latest ma
Stanley-DavlB Clark’s Strand Tbea* Wednesday and Thursday, April: 27 end 28. Friday and Sat­urday, Leon Errol . Broadway’s funniest comedian in “A Lunatic at Large'’ wllh Dorothy Mackalll supporting him. Errol is funnier than be ever was on ' the stageandinjoy his acting 1Monday and Tuei ¦day, “The Prince of Tempters a story of the world and th church with a splendid cast in­cluding Lois Moran, Ben Ian Keith and Lya De Puttl. Se­lected comedies and news events with eacb change of feature
been
• will 1taturda 
e ample wish to 
attend.
itated previously, the alun luncheon will bo held Saturdi May 14.' at 1;Q0 p. m., and it fa 
beep decided that’the most , suita­ble place for bolding It would be the Hotel Schenley, with wbtcb are well acquainted. Tbls Is one of the Intercollegiate lutnnl Hotels. Alumnae as well 1 alumni aTe urged to attend thlB Talr, which Is exclusively for the umnl. It has been faithfully. 
romlBed that- tbere shall be no og speeches, lest this keep any. ie away, but there will be some itertalnment which will be differ- 
it from the past Reservations r the luncheon may be made long. with the reservations for 
ampus Week- tags. - 
Within Uie next week or so res- •vation blanks will be sent oat > ell "paid up” alumni, upon which they may order Campus Week tags, seats for the show; and the luncheon. No tags will be mailed out, but wlll. be obtained-here on the cam- Campus Week. For? the convenience of. alumni, the umnl Office will be open two enlngs, In addition to the day. will remain' open from. 6 to 9 1 the evenings of either Tuesday and Wednesday, or Wednesday and Thursday; definite announce­ment will be made next week.-. Tbls. year It Is planned to use the Trophy Room In the New Gymnasium as Alumal headquarters In place ot the Hut porch. This room Ib lo­cated JUBt to the left of tbe middle
HENRY S. HUBBELL 
OFFERS PLAN FOR 
COOPERATIVE ART
Former Carnegie Professor 
Connected With the 
Univ. of Miama
In a cityJLke Miami, Florida, 
•bicb sprang into existence over 
Igbt like a fairy village, almost 
othlog is capable ot causing the 
leaet thrill of excitement among 
the habitants. In a community 
s le apt to awaken in the 
and find several ot one's 
ne; where indeed one is 
fortunate to awaken at all, one is 
not likely to be deeply moved by 
anything short of an- earthquake 
or a hurricane. However, when 
Henry Salem -Hubbefl, an artist, 
was asked recently by tbe board 
of regents of the' city to present 
bls'ideas for .the Art Institute of 
tbe New University, of Miami which 
Is beine planned, a glimmer of 
interest asserted itself throughout 
the city. Mr. Hubbell has had ex­
perience In many branches of the 
arts, -having been professor of 
painting and bead of the school or 
painting and decoration in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts at Carnegie, aa 
well as an Internationally known artist If Mr. Hubbell’s plan for co-operative ' art education suc­ceeds In Miami it will create a new American standard. Tbe Mi­ami Herald has quoted-a part of Hr. HubbelVa'-plan ai fallows: 'Hunt, tbe American artist who introduced his friend Millet and the other great painter of the Bai
CLAN NEWS
The Philadelphia Clan is plan­ting,as all good alumni should, to ittend Campus Week, eu masse, rhey have conceived tbe novel ana iriglnal Idea of organizing an auto­
mobile caravan to Journey through 'the barren desert lands between Philadelphia and Pittsburgh to the Oasis in Schenley Park, which' Is -arnegle Campus. Any alumnus ¦eslding In the East should thrill ;o the lure of adventure and Join :he caravan, on the. most novel pit
¦he old Alma Mater. No time ihould be lost in getting In touch with GUmore L. Tlllbrook, 1520 Real Estate Trust Building, Phil­adelphia, to make " arrangements or tbe trip. Sedd to him tbe date and time you could leave Phila­delphia or points west of Phila­delphia on the Lincoln or William nn highways. You may be able Join the caravan along the trail. Also do sot hesitate to ~feabm!t >thei\ information and suggestions rou xnay bave -to help In tbe organ­ization or tbe caravan and the road 
schedule. .impus Week this year Ib going e bigger and better than ever, ould be'no less than criminal 
'OJL it. So put some water In - camel (or. yonr Lizzie) and 
iare to hit the trtil with the van. Watch for tbe May 9 of Tartan, which will be CampuB Week Issue aud which contain' two full pages of iafoi for alumni who plan to alt pus Week. See you there
capitol at Albany were tlu ¦ paintings of that kind tber nerlca said that bis idea of « university education was that 1
onslsts of general edi loo, generally of a few lecture 
ilender course of reading, an caBuel viewing ot some photo- pbs or lantern slide produc­ís. The main appeal 71 still to memory and the Intellect with real attempt to cultlvi understanding and taste,In the founding of a i •slty what has been doi >d enough, and-what It
ate. To meet tbe sltuatli -ould seem that the first step 'ould be tb'e close co-ordlnatl<II of the proposed specialized chools where the arts of Mualc, irama, Painting, Sculpture, Ar chitecture. Decoration and others 
ikll be taught These' should bi ganteed Into a. ColIege of FIn< Arts and a definite program should planned to break down th<
'GymIt I
week will be Issued the an. Tbls will contain al 
>f the events ot. Campui and full , directions fo And tell al] your fello* rder to attend I be ,p»ld u]r they 11
•cmendoue h,It I: Davis
LOYALTY
ray from a dance becausi
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
60024-4 JENK1N6 ARCADE
PHONE:Day—Grant 2S04 Night—Lafayette 4791-1
MANOR THEATER
Stanley • Davis - Clark's .Manor Theater presents a very pleasing program this week starting Wed­nesday and Thursday with "The Telephone Girl” one of the most Interesting pictures of the year with Madge. Bellamy, Holbrook BMnn, May Allison and -Lawrence Gray. . Friday, Bmil Jannlngs the great German actor who made euch a hit in “Variety” now comes to us in '‘Faust1* Saturday,''Leon Errol Broadway's funny man In 
"The Lunatic at l4.rge" and Mon­day and Tuesday,1 “The Prince of Tempters”, with a knockout cast Including Lois Moran, Ben Lyon, Ian Keith and Lya.De PutU.. . Se­lected comedlto and'news events with each'change of'feature.
Once In an age there comes tbe screen a picture that can classed 11 truly epochal. Such production/is “The Yankee -Clip­per,” a tremeru of thegreyhounds battled for glory 
tbe supremacy ot the waves. “The Yankee Clipper” has been booked at the Stanley - Rowland •Grand, beginning Monday, April 25, with William Boyd and Elinor FaiT In the stellar roles. Junior CogU- lan; Walter Long, John Miljaa, Clarence Burton, Julia Faye and Burr McIntosh are seen In th< porting casi The story of Yankee Clipper” Is an origto Denison Clift, author of 1 screen narratives. The production 1 was supervised'by C.. Gardner Sul- , llvan, one of the most prolific o screen writers. Rupert Julian, thi 1 man who made “Silence,” “The , Merry-Go-Round” and 'The Phan- 
tom of the Opera," Is responsible..... ..... .... for the directorial genius expended
combined In tbe "wonderful bill of ln "The. Yankee CllppeiKeith-Albee vaudeville and feature ‘
he DavIS/Theater, Pittsburgh, reek, starting Monday, April i
presenting A Hungarian Rhapao. dy.” Tbe principal | screen. attrac-’ tlon will be xthe dramatic comedy. ••Upstream.-* an; • Intimate and human story, lavishly produced with a great all-star cast.;-Elsa EtbI came to America three years ago. from .Budapest to star with Leon ¦ Errol in. “Loute- the 14th.” 6he\la a blonde beauty of youth and talent, with a voice tbnt has made bor>a eensatlonal success, in prima donna roles. Joe- Fejer is a distinguished. Hungarian vio­linist who hap been-proving a tre- mendQUS.-blt on Broadway for sev. eral years.- -His-Hungarian-Orches­tra is one .of-'the finest groups of musicians: ln. America. <>i£Qle. Erst Is avtalented actress as well, as a singer and besides all this knows bow ta dance. Their, beautifully staged^ production is .expected'-to
will /walk to classes, and if th< is any “heavy lovln*' to do” which must be accomplished on wheels. If will be -done as- the Princeton undergraduates of the'early nine*tier ........ •' • • - - -
ma
student autos.:The action was taken by the Board of Trustees because of the many accidents to student which five students and tw have met their death.; Last year the university passed a ruling requiring students to ob­tain permission from their par­ents if they, were to own or drive cars. .The resolution which the board of.-trueteqs adopted on Feb ruary 18 of this year, declares:"After July' 1, 1927. no under­
graduate shall., while college Is in
Princeton. or ¦> 1n • the immédiat
school i
lUtslde of 1 “Art.aIntereE
, still Iledu.
) will .t
i of 1rowed in.-thi’hole,student body. .The cl< operation of tbe arts will hai Irst good effectB upon the stu n the various- units of tbe Co!- ege (of the Arts, itself. It Is a ommonplace that >est of a college education lies >utslde formal class . work In the ippo^tunltles for intellectual am social contacts wbicH college life osslble. This large]} of Itself In the Academi< Departments but in the spcclal lz& schools the - tendency- ii strongly toward separate groupi and narrow Interests and outlook'.“The duty of the collegc ot th« arts should be to have a vivid, at­tractive life wllh many occasions when this can be shared with' the student body of tbe university as a whole. For this purpose as well aa for Individual training, concerts, ptays, exhibitions, pageants, and fetes, where the talented'students in all of the arts can be called into co-operation, should be a definite part of the system.'1Such Is Mr. Hubbell’s plan In part. However he says in conclu- 
itudy will be required
effects.
naklng of a successful film. - 
Every personality demands p :onal attention and; considerate \ man with blue eyes of one shade holographs decidedly differ« than a man with another shade
with grayishblue, eyes will 
certain lighting conditions and dark eyes.under another.' The idai with dark brown eyes ofttlme looks as if his eyeB were beads o: buttons- under severe lighting an. in soft light the .coloring of th< same eyes photographs a sof gray, permitting tbe slightest' ex pression to register sharply. Th' 
f-'the
A all 11 theby bis knowledge 01 cosmetic and photographic valuei considerably.ind Clark Theatei backing tbe testi
The R01
made In Pittsburgh, as previously announ Tartan, will be grante< pilcante In the trophy &yzn - at 3:00 Frida
la th?
FLOYD IM. JACOBS
¦f 3006^2 FORBES STREET 
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.
“Around the Corner from 
Forbes Field”
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing. CRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and Fri­day Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and SaturdayEvenings. Private lessons by appointment _______Mayflower 7891______
Goodyear Welt System 
4523 FORBES STREET 
WE REPAIR RUBBERS
BUTLEE'S
FOR BETTER. GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH.CRAIG STREET We Deliver All Order«,J. O. BAKER, Mai
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE
ten by> hand. No< Ihlng h ind Co.thing Is typewritten.-. You'lj
combined. Come In and see the latest model. It Is the last Word In portable type­writers. .Standard four-row keyboard, wide carriage, twelve yard ribbon—more big machine features than
only $60?00. P°We also have
S TANLBY-DA VIS - CLtARK’S
CCHENLET
'•»« THEATER • SS-.::“
Moat Beautiful Neighborhood Theater In Pittsburgh. 
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, APRIL 27 AND 28
Emil JannSngs in “Faust”
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 29 AND 30“Tfe® Girl”
MADGE BELLAMY—HOLBROOK. »L1WW
z I FE-WCO /-I ^, stage I MAEM@MIS¥§ | WEEK 
- In a Cycle ot Peppy Songs and Dances
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MAY 2 AND 3
t6Mi@ ;!©&
KENNETH HAUL AN—VIOLA DANA
From the
those tested-rl leges visited ' to Hollywood, paid, and an
is, Ohio—(I.P.) — ’Colui
Ohio Wesleyan Glea Club state championship la' a contest held here, recently between the clubs of 12 Ohio collegeB.
STANLEY-DAVIS-CLARK’SSTRAND
Wednesday and Thursday 
April 27 and 29“Red Diee”
Rod La Roque 
Marguerite DoLaMott
Léon Errol 
’‘Lunatic at Large”
(tPrince o£
BEN LYON 
LOIS MORAN
MAN0H
'THE TELEPHONE GIRL”
Madge Bellamy .. 
JBolbrook Blinn '
Emil Jannings “Faust”
Leon Errol
“Lunatic at Large”
"PRINCE OF TEMPTERS"
Lols Moraft — Ben Lyon
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFtCE
rawn.” In the 1 •atlon of tho 1attcr of admlnls- ' university, MrHubbell believes that- “perhaps tbe greatest advantage might be. found lit leaving each sfcbool as free as possible to make its Individual ap-' peal to-the public with the'bead of the. school and the faculty In full responsibility and authority within that school. Tbe necessary co­operation might be secured by hav­ing, a general administrator, direc­
tor, or. dean, who. would act as a liaison officer between'tbe schools and. who, wllh the ¿leads of the 
schools os -Q. governing , board, would have ,general direction or the :college of artB.
.“With such .'a gronplng and ad­ministration”: Mr.’ Hubbell hopes achieve measurably the co-op-'
ot his
(Continued from'Page One) the next competitive drill, l^st winter this guidon wae presented to the R. O. T., C. bv the ' Pitts­burgh Chapter- 38 of tho'Soldiers’ Club, a - national organization.; It Is iade»of imported silk Carnegl«
A, winner of last year's drill All . the> companies have been 
practicing bard since . spring drlff was resumed, and the eom>etlUon promises to be an . interesting
They’ve found it out!
Nothing can ever take the place of natural tobacco taste in a cigarette 
and smokers have found it out!
More than anything else» -. 
Chesterfield's natural to 
banco ¿»¿¿ accounts for Its 
steady rise to real prestige.Chesterfield
Liggett s Myths Tobaccò Co
and yet, they’re MILD •

---------------------------------------------------

THK CAUNItlI TARTAN
CLOTHES
Aad CM i»Ord«r 
ESTABLISHED KNQLISH UNIVERSITY* 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINÛUI8Htt> 
SCRVIOKvIN THE UNITED STATES«
A
W" BV SPECIAL APPOINTMENT ^am srms is rm
©hwtet louse1
OF PITTSBURGH 
The character of the , suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
MOBBIS’S
Permanent Display Booms 
Suite 270 WebsterjHall
Carnegie Tecta will be repre­sented In the Pena Relays uext Saturday by s picked, ono-mue re­lay team. After several'time trials to select representative men, the following were chosen: Peck, Fengel6, Hughes and\Craw- fos;<l. Lockard makes the trip as illbrnate. The relay team will be 
iccompanled by • varsity manager Wilde and coach Guy HaUerty. men are lo good condition can be expected to make a very creditable showing.The group will leave Thursday night for Philadelphia. The meet will be staged there at Franklin Field on Friday and Saturday. The Technical College mils relay will be run on the latter day.
The Carnegie Bow) last Satur­day „was the scene of a numhea 
aggregation or runners and u shivering handful of spectators, C sharp.; cold wiad and occasional flurries of enow continued througn- out the afternoon. The varsity met a team from the Pittsburgh Athletic Association, while tho Plebes engaged Union High,of Tur­tle Creek. The varBlty dropped their meet to the tuno of 79-47; while the frosh swamped Union High. Crawford, Milne, Peck, Fengels, Bullinger, and Lovewell starred, for the varsity; while Schrodel, Coulter, Robusch and Sablana garnered most , of the points for the P. A. A. Kennedy, McFarlln, Henderson, Ashweil, and McCombs did good work In the plebe events. Summaries:Varsity:
100-yard dash—Milne, Tech; Mc­Coy, P. A. A.; Bohn, P.. A. A. Time: 10.3 seconds.220-yard dash — Milne, Tech; Hsgen,.T<ich: Bohn. P. A. A. Ttme: 24 seconds.
440-yard dash—Peck, Tech; Fen- gels. Tech; McCoy/P. A. A. Time: 54 seconds.Mile run — Schrodel, P. A? A,; Carter, P. A. A.; Campbell, Tech. Time: 4 minutes. 44 seconds.Half-mile run—Crawford, Tech; Carter, P. A. A.; Carr, P.. A. A. Time: 2 minutes 7% seconds.120-yard high hurdles —Coulter, P. A. A.; Sablana, P. A. A.; Crago, Tech. Time: 16.3 seconds.. 120-yard low hurdles — Coulter, P. A. A.; sablana, P. A. A.; Crago, Tech. Time: 16.3 seconds.120-yard low hurdles — Coulter, P. A. A.; flablana*. P. A. A.; Sell, P. A. A.. Time; 14 1-5 seconds.Pole Vault—Robusch, P. A. A.-, Smith, P.' A. A.; Monroe, Tech. 11
Boll ass& Spigot Jolsat
T
HE Bell and Spigot Joint for Cast Iron 
Pipé adopted over one hundred years 
ago, is the preferred joint today.
It is .tight, flexible, easily made and non* 
corrodibte—there are no bolts to rust out 
—it makes changes of alignment or inser*
11 tion of special fittings a simple matter—it 
, can be taken apart and the pipe used over 
agaip, without any injury—it is not subject 
to damage in transit—in fact, it embodies 
practically all of the desirable qualities in "~ 
an underground joint»
ARI ECLG OSXT UFHIY U,.PFBFGD 2,SIC,Y Peoples Gas BIdg., Chicago
CAST IRON PIPE
Our new ¿ooklet/'Pb». ving a tVoinworhs S*s- lem," nhich eooers the problem of water Jar the.
S^ndjot' b°ok^'Caf^
outstanding Tourist '-THIRD CABIN SdV|CC
to
atK.i., ¦ ROUND trip
w >170 (up)
Inour fleets you hdvé the choice of.
¦ Ï. The only ehipis la ihc worUdcrotod. udtuivdy16 ihb type of mvtl [no.elhe pwengen »""I-MinnJwUa, MinTuacta, Win<M^ D«*™' ' aivv'You have the Iradóm «I »11 P«bl*Ç
2. HiewoiId'alAiBenihlp.M.Hfmnd ihewcrW*
3. ' The lugest *hip cAyinf Toun* Thiid CaUn>* to the pora of England. Ireland. Fimtf of.Belgium. '
4, Tie Unjf ship* onrta* du> d» irom and to -
lUt in lm< the tangible évidence« of the ment of • wtvlea which'hú-delighted thousands of »liefe mea andwomenj
4a feent v«an. •' '
Early rumiatfcm of spau is rtammtndtd.
WHITE STAR UNE &UWE LETIAND^UNK
ATLANTIC ( TMNIBOJT IW* 4 B T
A. MILLER,.Manager, Union Trust Bulldln«, Pittsburgh. or 
'¦^v any authorised .steamship agen*- .:.. ¦ ¦
TEAM TO LEAVE THURS­
DAY FOR PENN BELAYS
Lose Saturday’s Practice Meet 
To P. A. A.; 79 to 47.
iches.Shot Put—Bears, P. A. A.; Coul­ter. p. As A.;- Robusch, P¿A.-A. 35 feet, 11 inches. rHammer Throw — Bullinger, Tech; Lovewell, Tech; Mefort, P. A. A. '92 feet', 9 Jochee.
Discus—Mefort, P. A. A.; Love, well, Tech; Coulter, P. A. A. I0t> feet. 7 Inches.
Javelin—Mefort, P. A. A. ; Love: well, Tech; McClelland, Tech. 159 feet, 9 inches.
KAPPA SIGMA AND 
DELIA UPSILON 
WIN TRACK CUPS
gotten hold of for last issue.] .The Intra-Mural track meet, held on the Wednesday and Thursday preceding Easter - vacation, was won by Kappa Sigma,' with PI Knppa Alpha second and Delta Tau Delta third. Delta Upsllon won
On the Plaid Screen
BY* FREDERICK O. WOODS
: CAMPUS WILL BE THÜS SCEÑ^J OP much itenalvfe .athletic activity from now tilt thè eAd of tho school year. The track tefam will be forced to share the Bawl with the footballI be occupied with discus
CARNEGIE WELCOMES THE ANNOUNCEMENT from Buddy'a Ic6 that Notre Dame will be met again in football, beginning In the 1 of 1928. It Is to be regretted that the Irish could not be booked
friendly, rivalry exlstinit much to both schools in the past a
‘team plays-la Pittsburgh.'
Many of the bo:>tween football and I Ae le a mighty tough propoelt Of the varsity track n ill are football players, «
3 gamo will be played 1 We liav s iu Chicago tLo r
ay. yesterday after-
. McClelland and' Love-
TARTAN RACQUETERS 
MEET W.&J. ON FRIDAY
THE VARSITY RELAY TEAM Mill. 1
lerty. Thepe boys hove been making an excellent ¦ ' .....negle's winning 6'treak, broken lest year
live Thursday tor Phlladel- s on Saturday. The team I Hughes, with Lockard as ager Wild ahd Coach Hal-
Georgia Tech wt____ _ ,-ed ia the Technical collegesboing Georgia Tech and Northeastern of Maine.
tilt of practice has not as yet decided on his lineup, out rna* Schmid, last year’s plebe captain, In number 0 also a '29 man. at number two, Captain Ho Sturm or Caffee In fourth position.The team faces a veally slid schedule < quality of material available, this outfit has Tartan team in years to^regain the Trl-Stnte property of Carnegie.
ourts! Coach Hoover will probably find Joe 3 position, with Glaser. >er number three and
the beBt chant
: for themlookei
the relay, and-a separate c1, after
beautiful race .featured by Fio- 
gles* splendid flnUh.
Kennedy of Kappa Sigma and Herbst of Bets ThetA PI did some fine work* In the sprlntB, while Hayes of Kappa Sigma, high point man, did well in every event which, he enLered. Lockard. of Sigma Alpho Epsilon won the two lap and the low hurdles, and .placsfl third In >the high hurdles. TJio mile was a pretty race, Llnbert of Kappa Sigma winning It by virtue 
of a nice sprint •*
The. cloi
IhlE
out by the great work t the1 Delta Upsllon anc'This Is the second c year the ‘‘D.. U’s. . have
.rqints Scored by Teams.1. Kappa Sigma ..........62 1-32. PI Kappa Alpha ..........26 1-2, 3. Delta Tau Delia ........ .23 1-34. Beta Theta PI ..............21 5-66, Sigma Alpha EpBllon...l36. Sigma Phi Epsilon.......107. Theta'-Xi ..................10.8. Phi Kappa  ........;.... 9 -9. Sigma Nu ..........7 •10. McGill Hall ..............611. Delta Upsllon 612. Beta Sigma Rho....... 5
13. Scohell Hall ............. 4 •14. Delta Mu...................... 316. Alpha Sigma Phi....... 2Phi Kai
4. , Munroe .5. ' McFarland6. 'Lovewell
First—Kennedy, ^Képpa Sigma 0 4-6 seconds.Second—Hayc9. Kuppa Sigma.
TH£ CfOTHSS, Ji<J4./B£s,R^D^ASHS'RX 
HC4TS, SHOSS, \4*d> SW^SWe^A^.
DEVELOPED SY FINCHLEY FOR 
COLLEGIAN USA GE FOR SPRING 
WILL BE EXHIBITED BY A REI*- j 
~ RBSENTATIVE FROM NEW YORK
At William Penn Hotel
WEDNESDAY AMD THUBSDA*?, APBH. 27 S 38 
HASST SCHEIN, Representative.
SUITS iAWD ‘TO'PCO'-ATS 
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
. . embbly,on ey Fom,rio
. FIFTH AVENU* IT. F0RTY41XTH ÍT1BFT
Third—Ashweil, Deltn Tau Delta. Fourth—Herbst, Beta Theto PI. Pitth—Milne, McGill Hall. 220-Yard Final- First—Herbst, Beta Thota PI, 24 seconds.Second—Kennedy, Kappa Sigma, third—Milne, McGill Hall. Fourth — Ashweil, Delta Tau Delta.Fifth—Shrlver,sbelta Tau Delta. 
One Lap Pinal- First — Alpermann, Sigma Phi Epsilon. 42 seconds.Second—Kerr, Phi Kappa. Third—Hughes, Theta XI. -Fouich—Flngles, Delta. Upsllon. Fifth—McCombs, Sigma Nu.Two Lap Final—First—Lockard, Sl^ma Alpha 
Epsilon, l minute, 43 'seconds. - Second—Henderson; Phi Kappa. Third—McCombs—Sigma Nu. 
Fourth—Snyder, Kappa Sigma. 
One..Mile Final—First—Linkert-Kappa Slgms, 5 minutes’ 14 2-5 seconds.;Second—Broclo'us, Pi Kappa Al- 
Pha.
Fifth—Carlstedt,.Theta XI.
High Hurdles Final— \First—Hitchcock, Beta Theta PI, i 1-6.- Sec(Delta.Third — Lockard,, Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
Fourth Crago, Alpha"-Sigma Phi. FKlh—Koueman, Slgma/'Phl Ep­silon, '
120 I
Third—Munroe. Pi Kappn Alpha Fourth — McFarland, Delta Tai Delta.Fifth—Donnes. Delta Tau Della
111 1well,iappa Sigm
Second—^.McClelland, PI Kappa Alpha.Tlhrd—Hoyes, Kappa Sigma. Fourth:—Griffith, Kappa Sigma. Fifth—Bulllngor, Dolta Upsllon. Broal Jump- 
First—Munroe, Pi Kappa Alpha, IS feet, 11 Inches.Second—Bunker, Theta XI.Third — McCullough, Delta' Tau
Fourth—Brown, Beta, Theta PI. 
Fifth—McLeod, -Phi Kappa Psl. High Jump—
Ffrst— McF&r&nd, Delta. Tau
. Secotidf-Brown, Beta Theta PI; HoppcT, TtCappa, Sigma, Tied.Third—Snetben, Theta Xi. Fourtti-^-Harpster, Kappa Sigma Shot Put—
First -^-..Melziner, Beta Sigma Rho, 42 feet; 3M Inches. - Second-r-HayeB, Kappa Sigma. Third—lovewell, Kappa Sigma. FourthTT^Grlffltli, Kappa Sigma. ' Fifth—Sweet, ' Phi Kappa.
Hamer -Thpw—
. Firet—Hayes, Kappa Sigma, 103 feet,. 10 Jnchee. - S'econd.-— Kousmao, Sigma Phi Epslipn.. '
. Third—BuUlngei^ Delta Upsllon.Fourth — Marshall,1 Pi Kappa Alpha.- , . 1
..Fifth—Lovewell, Kappa Slgmo.. 
Jayelln Throw—' .' /T
• First—Hayiss, Kappa Sigma, 14$ feet, 3 laches..Second—SheUler, Scobell Hall. ^Third — McClelland,. PI Kappa
Fourth—Mahman, Kappa Sigma. Fifth—Lovewell, Kappa Sigma,
inches.'
Second—Miller. Delta Mu. ' ‘Third—Fuller, McGIir Halil : Fourth—McCullough, Delta Tan Delta; Mohrman. Kappa Sigma: 
Perry,«Beta Theta Pi; tied-' Relay— •• •
First—Delta Upsllon. 2 minutes, 65 1G6 seconds. - - • Second—Kappa Sigma.Third—Phi' Kappa. > '¦ -Fourth—Delta Tau Delta. :,FHtbrrFi; Kappa •Alpha.:;-:
April. 29, by playing AVaahlngton and Jefferson on W. and J's. <This will mean some hardthe part of the coach and play* as (he team baa not been abl< 
to practice outsldo the gym he- > of weather conditions. Men been working on the courts during'the past couple of weoks mmerous rains ' have mad<a dutdoor practice ImpracticaL It h hoped however that the team may
elded? as to Just who will cousit- tute the team. Tho men have log good form with last year’s Plebe team coming through with a good brand of tennis.The Plebe team for this year is also fast rounding Into shape. The squad has not yet been cut aB tiielr first match does not como till Muy 4. ¦ At this time Unlou High of Turtle Creek will Invade the Tar­as courts. Several of the Plebe andldates show excellent form od will undoubtedly present a
The Plebe schedule has not boen ntirely completed as games with rniontown High and Indiana Nor- ml are still ponding. W. and j.
on the schedule fori thisthey have i300.
The schedule to date follows: May. 4—-'Union High of Turtle Creek, hore.
y 7—Royen High of Youngs­town. v May 9—Pitt Frosh', here.May 12 — Shodyelde Academy, here.
May IS—Pitt Frosh. there.May 19 — Shadyside Academy,
ton, N. J.—(I.P.)—Declor-
ienlor council of the university SBt week resigned-In a body. Tho 15 members' Voted unanimously In support of a Resolution taking thts action In the form of a letter ad­dressed to the entire student body.Members of the council emphQ-
:udeots to own .and drive
the principle of student gov­ernment Following the 
nlor council, tho Daily Prince n advocated a general Tetoren t>f the student body to doter
' Princeton, N. J.—(I.P.) — As a protest against the recently enact* ed ban on student automobiles, Juniprs at Princeton University
Mw roller-skaters, some of them wearing' signs inscribed: “They can’t take these away,” or “And mama said 1 could.” Many of those on akatos have abandoned old-fashioned flivvers . they have been driving .about the campus! In spite of the fact that the haa does not go into .offect until July 1.
A fixe Mechanical pencil will be 
given to each'student who pre< 
t>onU this ad v*hen purchasing a 
fountain pgn.at SlnQer Pen A Gift 
Shop, Jenkins Arcade. . Does your 
I pen need repairing? Take It-
FAOK THNtB
n« Wsy T« «• T«»X EUROPE
Comforfcddy - 
andSaveHgse;
ifFLOYDIM .JOOA iormcrlr^nJ cIasjs m o*tl y am id ahipe ooIWb* cnado and ^uppcrj Main Dcdc. The ejtetisicc spazomamMpracticalty *Ae run o/lAoib^i.' 
Also inexpensive (9385 apV SrvpENTand'UNtvznsrrTTovss (with eollego credit if desired) under tho.muiagemait of Us SCHOOL OF FOREIGN IWO, IbL 110 East 42ld Street, fL V. Cflj Specio{ Studmt Summer Snff» ings to and jrom FVtuice ad. England July and August.
BALTIC AMERICA UUE
We Invite You 
to Use Our Cars
the
mine what type of v<&nte—government, ns in the past, by the ssnlor conhcll, govern­ment by a council representativo of the. entire undergraduate - body, or a return to the old government by the administration of the uni­versity.
IE You Are a
MAM
i bluffino? The 
managers. Th
PITTSBURGH, I
G
OING sbmewhere tonight? You'll 
have a better time with a smart 
car at your disposal. And weVe the 
very car you want to make an evening: 
complete.
Step into our station—drive out in. 
two. minutes in a fine private automo­
bile. You drive. No one'tells you 
where to go—or what to do. And the 
cost is low, enough to permit you t<> 
use a car frequently.
The only requirement is that you ber 
qualified and competent to drive a car. 
That’s1 all.
Next time you want to go’some­
where—day, evening or week-ends—r 
we invite you to go in one of our cais. 
You’ll like the service.
Insurance y
When you rent a car from us you become one ol the 
Insured under a public liability insurance policy with, 
limits of 510,000 and $20,000 tor penonal lnjaciea ancf 
91,000 for property damage. This policy ¡6 supplied by 
. one of the largest old-line insurance companies. We fur­
ther protect you against collision damage over $10 tO, 
.rented car and against loss of car through fire or theft.
E225iTg|^St|SLi5MJ:
ITÄTJC^S
CONTROLLED DV YELLOW TRUCK ft COACH MFO.CO. SUBSIDIARY 6CN0RAL MOTORS' CORPORATION.
SUtlon A—61a: WEBSTER AVENUE 1 . •
“Speaking of fine tobaccos 
' —Have a Qamel!”
MODERN smokers find In Ctmels 
» nicety of blending» a friendly 
cordiality of flavor, an inherent
-modem smokers gather. Partial» 
lar smokers-m thu hard4o^pteasei 
age find the best of Turkish and.
goodness.that thrilla from the first- Domestic tobaccos in this:
puff to • the last. That is why famous dgarçtte. They: Jinda con«•
Camels are the favorite -of the 
present age. The warmth of golden 
sunlight or autumn fields gleams
sistent goodness that never 
ao matter how Uberai the taoldug. 
Aad wherevçrtnodenii smoketa
in diar smoke. Cuneb are the -gathe, whertver the convcrMiion 
moacinexpressionofaUthatistKc
j y best, someonr is sure to say:
Camel quality and Camel excel* “Speaking of fine tobaccos • . •- 
lence are recognized wherever .f—Have a Cornell”
A. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALBM, N. C~

---------------------------------------------------

î6®mçli35irtaD
• ; v . EDITORIAL STAFF
BdOor4n-Chlef.......^.'.........Merrill HoUInsheadManaging Editor.............. .......  .Sam Well:Naws Editor............... .................Francis Kolt»Athletic Editor......... ¿Frederick P. Woods
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
EUenor Tallmadge Robert. M. Few-Bussell BùJÜDger Harold Jacobson'Salph Hitchcock / Barto Orlfflee' ,A -J& Fisher Eugène Scanton-W. Bernard ;
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredith Stump Milton CohenFenton. Finn . Jeaa. Roy
ALUMNI EDITORS ¦ Margaret Russell “ Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
-Florence McLaughlin Helen RoodJosephine ClarkJohn Schneider 
REPORTERS Stowsrt Rnlston Rob TouDg . Clyde Park ÎŒBih G. Ritter Miriam Margolls W. Henderson Harry Wldom Henry1 Bunker' Catharine Boyd Cyrtl I^tzelter Ruth Bramson Sid. Warner- W. H. Worland Eugene Jarema Paul Droete William McNeil Helen Whltehlll W. W. Hay- Katharine O’Donnell Thomas Lippert -Jacob Carpe Bower Maze Hyman LevinsonCarl Kumpf
BUSINESS STAFF'Business Manager............................Arnold PerTetofcCirculation Manager................................B. Snpowltzadvertising Manager.....................Shelby McMllllon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS .James Seibert T. R. Zenk R. Noble
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS '
dsa Sacks G.1 W. Brabmst J. R. BrownH. Kandell A. Teplitz H. L. MarshallB. Wpiiner C. E. 6OOS.L M. MallnlckA. Ffcank . 0. C. Harbleon S. BluestoneGarland Kerr C. Tompsett S. Flegenbautn
ÇtcsetüftfAsw'
In the many fraternities houses that I have 
visited I lrnve seen too many instances of a 
false feeling of pre-eminence and too many 
cases of downright depravity to feel that fra­
ternities and fraternity houses are other than 
- ¦ — ~ an absolute evil that should be extirpated.
Editor’s Note : A reprint from a reccnt issue little is ever done about the problem because 
-of the New York Times, the following comment fc,v realize how important the danger is. Most 
•on college fraternities is passed ou a typical of us rate it with jazz-, petting and other post- 
eontribution to the present verbal war which is "ar. cv^.s and smile rather benignly ,when the 'being directed against the fraternity .system. subject i:v brought up. They do not realize; as 
This article cannot be dismissed as the prcju- Rabbi AVise and I do, thcit the whole frater- 
dice of a man who was spunked because of nity system is one of the evils that are rcspoi 
r having been asked to join a fraternity,
the writer has been an active fraternity 
himself. The writer’s conclusions may not be 
pertinent tq this campus, but are interesting
sible for the present state of affairs. It is turn­
ing out year after year into a world that needs 
help a lot of young popinjays and snobs that 
think the world is their oyster and that man­
ners and morals are serious subjects for old 
fogies, but a joke for them.
A lot of very pleasant men, some of whom I
It 6cems almost time that somothing was 
done about the fraternity business. The fact 
that I am a fraternity man myself makes me 
something of an authority. The additional fact 
that daring the war I was persuaded to fill n 
post that made it necessary to help save from 
foreclosure a great many chapter houses that it 
was thought might be lost as a property invest­
ment because a lot of .young men would deserl 
those houses,' makes me a little more familiar 
<with the question and, perhaps, a little more 
'impressed by its dangers.
There is' something almost comic about 'Greek-lcttcr societies. The comedy continues selves by the members is almost unknown 
'beeause they have been, so long established as President Baker of 'Washington and Jefferson 
to have deeply entrenched themselves and to ppints out the general aping of the colleges by
ment, many persons of the first order who are 
officers of college fraternities or genuinely in­
terested in them. Most fraternity men who are 
of any account in the world think of fraterni­
ties with a tolerant smile. Those who have 
first-hand information of what goes on in chap- 
would desert ter houses regret them.
The idea has worked down into high school 
fraternities, which is reducing the whole idea 
still closer to an absurdity, and in these young- 
circles the exercise of any restraint of them-
. -have become a political’power that college offi- 
-gjaln and public officials fear to fight too hard,' 
^md because the non-college group are so much 
in awe of them that, nothing is- done about 
abolishing them or even curtailing their activi- 
With ¦«’hat artfully counterfeited serious­
ness a lot . of politicians, young lawyers, doc- 
iore, bond salesmen,, bank presidents, and life 
insurance agents take, their fraternity piins! 
‘Those, pins are worked hard as' levers for new 
ibnsiness and its pursuit is given such a plausi­
ble look.
Ask Me Another
By~ A. W. TARBELL 
Dean of Men
1. What men are still ot Car- legle who were members of the faculty t^e first year, 1906-1906?
•2. What President ot the Unit­ed States visited tbe campus?
3. How did tbe Tartan plaid como to Carnegie?
4. What department has 6 ated- the largest number of stu­dents?
5. Who'oldest llvi
What large gift has the Alh. lellc council made to the college?
S. What Senior Class has, to date, left the noticeable gift to
allocated to the Student Coun and what to the Athletic Ctiunc 10. What service does the M. C. A. perform for the elude! that requires much time and
¦oft—
' Henry
ivate Papers of Henry t George Gleelng.
'The Private Papere 
Ryecroft” should be better known, 
as all George Glsslng's work should 
but It will certainly never be- 
e popular. It deserves a better' 
fate than that. One thing that wlU 
ilways repel the giddy . public Is 
he book’s beauty of style. It Is too 
eNgiously patterned atter Addison 
ind Pater and Hazlltt aud Lamb to 
empt Uiose crammod with Crane 
ind Natbas and Mencken and Mac- 
Fadden. An excellent style, but It 
te defects. Like Stevenson's,
meticulously cadenced, Is concern­ed too much with rhythm and bal­ance and the choice of tbe right word, to be much more then a pat­tern of pretty^ gems. True, they are gems, but wJth somethlug of their fiery Bparkle^gone. Yet they have a certain mild beauty of their own, and fit well with tbe matter >rve to crystallize. All men ve good-books, who experi­
ence a tbrlU ot joy iu discovering xa shabby old volume or Plato ot Catullus lying unnoticed In a book
they t
call George Glsslng And that they bave a common with hlm. 1 In the Ryecroft Paper
:rasb. will 'lend, and at deal in r will Und
of the Bib- 
liophlle, and much serene wisdom about the great men whose book: tbe Bibliophile loves better thr.c anything else he knows. They will find much, also, about the beauty ot trees and Sowers and clouds, but tbey will find nothing whatever about tbe beauty of comradeship with human beings. This one joyof life Glsswood iclock, 1
F gently t
-theseold wine, and a good bon represent the epiiu;.;« of eatlsrnc tlon for him. H1s life with bli fellows was too dreadfully unhapp; for him to value anything as muul as the possibility of escaping from
This 1Dk, then, giveB us a ] sslng’s Ideal world. Hi apathetic we may be
the' high schools. Before long our grade 
schools may have their fraternities aud frater­
nity houses.
The iben who know about the situation or 
who can find ou,t about it ,and that does, not 
mean the strange, usually atypical men who arc national or. local officers of the fraternities, 
should sit down and thoughtfully talk the 
whole thing over without having uppermost in 
their minds the idea that millions of dollars 
are invested in fraternity houses and that a lot 
of their good friends are member« of frater-
the principal addrc
. 12. Of tbe awards w negle students which i the largest stipend? Note—The answers t<
The. Masonic theory may be comic, too, but nities, and get down either to preserving what- 
rgroups of older men arc held in cheek by ex- ever there is of good in t*hese organizations, if 
•perienee and ide&ls that tiiost boys in college anything, or killing them off and turning over 
>dn not have, especially these days. - their quarters to the colleges and universities
I have sat in on rushing discussions. I know for really serious educational purposes, 
the exalted standards followed in the recruit- ^ JAMES A. FARUELL.
ing of new members. I have seen men rejected x New York, April 5, 1927.
By Dr. Thomas ÏThe class SrBt to receive Carnegie lnetltu Ohio 1s th lylvanla frc
:utive secretaries' dutie
and powers shell be governed by a contract made with tho Student Council. This contract shall be re­newed or changed each year as cir­cumstances warrant by action of 
the outgoing council of that year.
In the Section on Committees,
Musical Organizations , Publications Commit- 
ms and Eligibility Com- Is was done because the isary under tbe-old bud-
-al divisioni,. differ.
added
^Explosives are Tools
Use the right one for each job
plosives should be selected with the.
¦ same foresight as is used in choosing equipment to meet the contract’s require- 
. - ments. Are you thoroughly familiar with 
.. the special explosives designed by du Pont 
- for. the building ot highways ?
. For quick reference by students and engineers, du Pont has prepared a most comprehensive, care- liusnated, compactly written.handbook on :lcedon and use of explosives. The cxpcri-____of du Pont engineers In vailous fields over .a century, and a" quarter ate summed up In the Blaster*’ Handbook. Valuable Information at- • ranged In charts and tables. Coat-pocket dze, ibound in boards,200 pages of practical, everyday /help for students and engineers. • •
"Write today for your FREE copy of the wBlaatthP' 'Handbook. '
The Recall tv the Constitution.Action to recall the pre: vice-president of the Studi ell must begin with a petition ilgned-by three hundred (300) .e oiled students of the InstltntU ind Tecolve a favorable vot« ot fifteen (15) members of tbit
' the scie«
Explosives for Road . 
Construction.-
—wUUonil watrr for,2
 GELATIN SiiCT (Ui—20 to 90%
—^»cUcallT ooa. 
ncommcodtd (at
E3Ä
.. —oct«jtpWd to^iP.
Y GOXG9 fatali•3 DU PONT J STRAIGHT DYNAMITE . StmfiK—15 »40%
125 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP 
IN THE SERVICE OF INDUSTRY><- si VÆ H i i U5 ! _ _________________1
i. Baker, Präsiden of 1912 was th degrees from th
i which thé-most
Loyalty Bonds are. issued by Carnegie Alumni Federatloi the purpose "of adding to th Dwment of the Carnegie Inst of Technology. Ten d<I pay 1i hundredol-bond In ten years. Fifty do! of this pays for a life membei i In tbe Alumni Federation am the other fifty is applied on the ec dowment.4. The Executive Board is the executive body of the Carnegie In­stitute' ot Technology and lacerned with matters of administra­tion. The Educational Senate leg­islates on educational question; and policies;
Confessions of a Young Man—1 ’ George Moore.'
Beside the literary confessions of Cl6slng/ the “Confessions” of George Moore seem childish. We told that “this book 1s n young ij’a attempt to h© sincere.” - It Is t/undoubtedly.' -It le as sincere '¦Hamlet’' or the ‘‘Divine Com- or the braying ot an - ass, the bawl of e famished calf. > reader is left to judge for hlm- t which ot these It resembles
It has something in commo itb the chatteries of a squirrel, whisking about fevi Insisting that' the worl< notice of its excitement G likened to cakinj
outhli
to look, self-coosclousthe subjectthe beauty of wickedness, s cries'of “Humanity be hanged.’1 •Jts painful detailings of callo1 thoughts and passions, its faulty grammar, its original punctuation,- its deification of whim and Its platitudes on thi spectabnily. Its sc bourgeois, its hasty m
insistmpt for schocattlt its. heikeenneSB of tbe writer’s brain,, the sufficiency of bis taste, end the perfection of. his digestion—these peculiarities make of the book exhaustive confession Indeed. 1 it le an Intensely Interesting c fesalon, and there Is much good is it. With It once out of bis we George Moore ' could go ahead a: write his truly, admirable books.Perhaps it he had not been c polled from school when he w 
slxtoen, he might hcve done a b tér Job on this one—or perhaps : might ] '
cfecidedlyP
the newest\:Ml,
and of course/JÄthe smartest
in the
pajama vogueWÊ'
Priced $2.95 toÊÊ$25.00
JOSEPH HORNE GO
îe bnt ! > that oicheri tell• grammaipunctuatioi Bible, our learning shaky and scat­tering, our wit, shallow, and-our tnstes bad, and do it with Impunity. This is the reason why schools are, after all, worth something. They may serve to point out defects In ourselves, which, though shocking.
i befoi
Contribs and Comments
5» CoreBraddock, Pa. Sopb< March 28, 1927.Ir. Holltnshead,
Editor Carnegie Tartan:
Dear Mr. Holllnabead—I wish to
formalthe
lged Freshman regulations 
it Carnegie. They have thelf 
at the beginning of the school 
year In enabling the PJebes to be- 
acquainted Vlth each1 other 
and with the upper classmen — In 
helping the Sophomores to let ofT i and In taking the conceited high school sentor from his high horse—these bnds are accoinplshed by the regulations. But stretched iver an entire year, they be­come a farce that should be ended.
iiBhed with work, Plobos struggling with a bard and strange proposition, both need and should have a let up on restric­tions. The first three xnont school, for ^Instance, would be 
plenty of time for Sophomores 1 exercise their authority and f< PlebsB to learn to know one ai other. Again, a limited period i
those able to make the change. Yours truly,J. A.. Freshman M. M. C. C.
ijxtoister Lather 
iÎVVT*»“ Shaves
TT7ILLIAMS Shaving Cream works up 
VV'fest into a rich bulky lather simply 
saturated with moisture. This super-moisc, . 
saturated lather soaks into the beard 
bristles until they are completely softened.
That’s why there is no razor “pull” with 
Williams, why all blades, seem sharper.
Williams leaves the face^love-smooth. Two
sizesj 35c and 50c. ' ¦
Williams Shaving Cream
The : Design, ofNeiYork CUy, was founded by a group of architects who.had been students of the Ecole des Beaux Arts of Paris, and who organized the institution to en­courage the study of architecture mural painting, Interior decoration id sculpture. It has attempted tobring aboi•opera
mCMe
test*here
Friday, April 29 
luoluindiedinen should turn out
T^fliFirstNational Pictures-OiSge- Humor ScREQl 
atThT e eeeeeeeee
Mffi&WAsnsi:
7LMXaVCn
andDlibaa
¦WLLiPlCU:
CAT Mài
Ü;
GfliejeHumor
tents by juries made 1
Morrison was the
Gabler," by Ieben; “She Stoops to Conquer,” by Goldsrfilth; “The Dance of Life,” by Ould; “The Black Flamingo,” by Janney.8. The department» which haw the largest enrollment are Paint- ing and Decoration. In the Day 199; Mechanical Drafting
sm
10. Three I 
at tbe recent- International Con­ference on Bituminous Coal were Dr. . C. H. Lander. Director Fuel Research Board, London^-England . Dr.-.Friedrich-Sergius. University of Heidelberg.- Germany: General Georges Patart. Inspector General of Powders, -Etench' War - Office:
OP eTH CAMPUS WEBK
(Continued from Page-One) for . the coronation of-the queen has not yet been made^but a num­ber of desirable locations are avail­able.
Roller skates have been •• pur­chased rot the glris'-races-and al­ready.many of the maids may be »eon wlth,>oll cans.-; busy: getting •their. steeds-Jn chape for the big
One man tells another
