I Friday April 11
HOME CONCERT 
j Little Theater 9P,. M. j
Thursday 4 P. M.
TEA DANCE 
Union 50c
VOL. XXIV, No. 26.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 1930.
SOUTH HILLS AND 
LANGLEY SCHOOLS 
WIN AQUATIC MEET
Twenty-six Teams Complete 
in First Annual High 
School Relay
Riflers Win At Phila.
Plaid Shooters Victors in In­
tercollegiate Meet At 
Drexel
Aquatic teams from South Hill's 
and Langley High schools' carried 
off the class honors in Carnegie’s 
^irst Intcrscholastic Swimming Relay 
Meet. The boys from South Iiills 
received the verdict in the -senior 
claSs, while Langley High won in the 
juniors by the smallest possible mar­
gin. In this class the scores of Lang­
ley and Latimer High were dupli­
cates, but the former was adjudged 
the winner by virtue of the most 
number of first places.
The swimming gala was attended 
by no less than 26 teams and about 
200 interested on-lookers. Coach Rise- 
dorph directed 'the meet and was 
assisted by Mr. Moses and the vars­
ity swimmers. The rotund Henry 
Blum filled the position of referee 
and starter with the help of his 
pocket size cannon. Cups were 
awarded to the team winners in each 
class. In addition individual medals 
were given for the first three places 
the finals of each event. The 
seventeen races were run off in an 
orderly manner, and the whole af­
fair was well worth the efforts of 
those who worked to put it across.
The Middle States Division inter- 
r.flllcgialc rifle meet went off accord­
ing to advance dope when Carnegie 
Tcch won the championship Saturday 
at Drexel Institute, Five college 
teams competed on the new Curtis
I Jail range, which • is one of the fin­
est in the country.'
Carnegie Tech scored 1317 points 
out of a possible 1500. Penn State, 
the dark horse of the event, finished 
second with 1303 points. University 
of Penna, surprised by landing third 
with 12S3 points. University of Pitts­
burgh was fourth with 1274 and 
Drexel Institute, the host, ended in 
the cellar position with 1254 points.
Leo Kasehagcn, Plaid captain, did 
not capture high individual scoring 
honors as expected and. the honor 
fell to another Pittsburgh shooter, 
Robert Hemple, of Pitt, who totaled 
279 points.- Bernard Scott, Tcch 
marksman, turned in a perfect score 
of 100, in prone shooting. The final 
team standings:
P. K. S. T.
489 453 375 1317
__ 485 451 367 1303-
483 446 354 12S3
467 431 376 1274
Car. Tcch _ 
ì?cnn State 
U. of Penn 
U. of Pgh,
Drexel Inst. ____ 486 433 335 1254
Educational Group 
Sponsors Conference 
Here April 10 -12
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is a member of the group of co­
operating educational agencies spon­
soring the Western Pennsylvania 
Education Conference to beheld 
in Pittsburgh, April 10, 1.1 and 12.
This annual confererice is, in 
general, held to bring to teachers 
of Western Pennsylvania informa­
tion about changes that arc taking 
place in educational administration 
and methods in public schools. The 
reason for Carnegie’s co-operation 
in this enterprise is that the ma­
jority of students who come to 
this institution are from Western 
'Pennsylvania and have been, or 
are being, trained by teachers who 
-will attend this conference. As a 
result of the meetings Carnegie 
hopes to encourage more friendly 
co-operation between the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, Carnegie and 
¦the public school systems.
Professors Clceton; Nyquist and 
Trilling of Carnegie are acting as 
a committee on arrangements for 
the conference sections which will 
be held on our campus. Professor 
Olds of the Mathematical Depart­
ment Will be a discussion leader 
of the mathematical section. Pro­
fessor Clceton will be discussion 
leader for the Vocational Educa­
tion section of the conference. Miss 
Winchester, head of the department 
of Secretarial Studies, is chairman 
of the Commercial Education sec­
tion. Dr. Will Earhart and Lee 
M. Lockhart, part-time members 
of the Department of Music, will 
participate in the meeting of the 
music section.
All the Vocational Education, In­
dustrial Arts, Home Economics and 
Pine Art sections will hold their 
meetings on the Carnegie Campus. 
One general and 36 sectional meet- 
(Continucd on Page Four)
Program of Music To Be
Given In Chapel Today
The last Chapel service of the 
year will be held in the Little 
Theater today at 12:30 o'clock. 
Instead of the usual sermon the 
program will consist entirely of 
musical numbers, . beginning with 
an organ prelude from the “Suite 
Gothique,” with Nina Miller at the 
organ. A string quartette, com­
posed of Katherine Rickert, Helen 
Foster, Rose Aiello and Alyce Mar­
tin will play a selection from 
Schubert, and Elinore Stevenson, 
contralto, will sing the aria, “He 
Was Despised,” from Handel’s, 
“The Messiah.” The program will 
conclude with Willibald Ryshanck 
and Joseph Patterson playing a 
violin duet by Bach.
C.FAckenheil To Be 
Editor In Chief 
Of Puppet Staff
Nancy Sloan is First Woman 
to Hold a Place on 
Publication
The election of the Puppet staff 
officers for next year which took 
plase last Tuesday in the Publica­
tions Office forecasts a wide-awake 
and live-wire staff for the coming 
year.
Charles F. Ackenheil was elected 
Editor-in-Chicf and M. J. Frank 
was chosen Business Manager. Mr. 
Ackenheil was Exchange Editor be­
fore his promotion. He is a mem­
ber of the Delta Upsilon social 
fraternity, an. assistant tennis man­
ager, a track candidate,- and a chcerT 
leader. Mr. Frank was Advertising 
Manager this year and distinguished 
himself in scholarship last semester 
by making a perfect six point schol­
astic average.
The elections also included the 
minor officers of the staff. Robert 
Green was elected Art Editor. He 
is a Junior in the Painting and 
Decorating Department, whose art 
work on the Puppet has been of 
note this year.
Nancy Sloan has earned the dis­
tinction of being the first woman 
to hold a staff position in the his­
tory of the Puppet. Her consistent 
high quality contributions earned 
her the position of Literary Editor. 
Miss Sloan is a member of the 
Cwens, women’s sophomore honor­
ary fraternity, a member of the 
Alpha Chi Alpha, journalistic hon- 
(Continued on Page Four)
Carnegie Winner Of 
Oratorical Contest To 
Be Chosen Thursday
The preliminary contest for the 
?clcction, of a representative from 
Carnegie. Tech for the sixth Na­
tional Intercollegiate Oratorical 
Contest on the Constitution will 
be held on April 10 at .5 o’clock 
in Room 114 of Margaret Morrison. 
Any regularly enrolled undergrad­
uate student is eligible.
The Carnegie representative will 
meet orators from colleges of 
Western Pennsylvania and Eastern 
Ohio at the regional elimination to 
be held here on Friday, May 2. 
At this contest an orator will be 
chosen to represent the district in 
the Zone and National Semi-Fnals 
where student, orators from Mary­
land, New York, Pennsylvania and 
West Virginia will meet.
Seven cash prizes, totaling $5,000, 
will be awarded in the National 
Finals. Professor Leo F. Lawler of 
the Carnegie English Department, 
will be in charge of the local and 
regional contest. The local elimina­
tion has been changed from last 
Tuesday, April 1, to April 10, be­
cause of the mid-semester exams.
COLLEGIATE IMPS TO PLAY AT GLEE CLUB DANCE, FRI,
Faculty Club Rooms Will Be 
Decorated For Combined 
Club Affair
Concert in Little Theatre 
Will Precede This 
Yearly Event
The “Collegiate Imps,” one of 
Pittsburgh’s most popular orchcs- 
tias, has been chosen to play at 
„the combined Glee Club’s Dance, 
Friday evening, April 11, from 
nine until one. This orchestra, 
long a favorite among Pittsburgh’s 
collegiate circles, has been play­
ing at Webster Hall for the din­
ner dances, and is heard each eve­
ning over KQV. They are well 
known here on the campus, having 
played at Senior Balls for the past 
two years, at the Coronation Ball 
two years ago, and at the most 
successful football dances.
Plans for the dance include the 
decoration of the Faculty Club 
Rooms, as well as the Union,
where the dance is to be held. The 
committee has also announced that 
refreshments will be served. The 
chaperons for the affair are Colonel 
and Mrs.' George E. Fairley, Mr. 
and Mrs. J. Vick O’Brien, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Rollin V. Davis. 
Among the patrons and patroness­
es are Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Har­
den Church, Mr. and Mrs. Frank
J. Lanahan, Mr. and Mrs. A. C.
Jewett, Mr. Glcndinning Keeble, 
Miss Mary Watson Green, Mr.
and Mrs. Alan Bright, and Mr. 
and Mrs. A. W. Tarbcll.
The dance is an annual affair 
which follows the- combined Men 
and Women’s Glee Clubs Home 
Concert, which will be held in the 
Little Theater, and will begin at 
8:15, t-'ket holders only being ad­
mitted up to that time. The pro­
gram consists of vocal solos, in­
strumental novelties, a one-act 
opera farce by the Men’s Glee 
Club and chorus numbers, one of 
which, “Land Sighting” by Greig 
will be rendered by the combined 
clubs under the direction of J. 
Vick O’Brien.
Tickets for the dance may be 
securcd from members of either 
Glee Club for $1.50. Members also- 
liave the' tickets for the concert, 
which may also be had in the 
office of the Department of Music.
TECH CWENS ASSIST AT 
NATIONAL CONVENTION 
HELD IN PITTSBURGH
The national convention of 
Cwens, the women’s sophomore 
honorary, began last Friday after­
noon with the arrival on the Pitt 
campus of delegates from the Uni­
versity of . Missouri, Muskinghum, 
Miami, Penn State, and Alleghany. 
The Pitt Cwens, acting as hostesses 
and assisted by. the Carnegie chap­
ter, helped the out-of-town guests 
to register and settle themselves at 
the various sorority houses.
At four o’clock, a general . as- 
serhbly was held at which repre­
sentatives coming from the local 
sophomore honorary society of the 
University of West Virginia peti­
tioned admittance to Cwens as a 
new chapter. Margaret Hall, the 
national president and a junior at 
Pitt, gave a short address after 
which various committees met for 
discussing of special topics.
(Continued on Page Four)
Conditions In The Grill Causes 
Thistledown To Ask Questions
Why is it that the silverware of 
the Grill is so often put back into 
the boxes after a washing still 
dirty? It is no pleasure to find on 
the spoon which one is about to 
put into his mouth traces of last 
night's bread pudding, or on the 
fork, remnants of yesterday’s pies.
Why is it impossible to get a
5-cent order of toast at the Grill? 
T oast is cheap to prepare.
Why doesn’t the Grill serve a 
big, decent cup of cocoa for a 
nickel? Plenty of drug stores do, 
and on a cold day such a drink 
has a large sale. Probably the 
Grill charges 10 cents for its cocoa 
because it is served in a peculiar 
tall mug with a daub of whip 
cream • on top. But tertainlv for 
5 cents the Grill could give us 
a piping hot big coffee cup of cocoa 
straight.
Why aren’t the tables and chairs 
n the Grill washed clean oftener? 
Out of the layer of grease which 
covcrs them most of .the .time
enough soap could be made to sup­
ply the men's dormitories for an 
entire semester.
Why should cherry pie always 
cost 15 cents, and most other kinds 
10? Is there so' much difference 
in the cost of the materials? Do 
cherries cost a great deal more 
than apples as a pie- filler?
Why isn’t there proper refrigera­
tion for milk at the Grill? Every 
spring and fall, when there is a 
really hot spell, we are given bot­
tles of milk that is slightly spur.
Why do the two or three table- 
spoonsfuls of cranberry or rhubarb 
sauce that the Grill serves as a 
portion cost 10' cents? For 10 
cents one ought to get three times 
the amount that the Grill serves 
of either of these.
Why is that gang of musicians 
that eats so regularly in the Grill 
allowed to annoy every one else 
by their whinnyings and brayings?,
When arc girls going to be al­
lowed to smoke in the Grill?
TO PLAY AT GLEE CLUB DANCE
Election Of Senate Presidents To Be 
HeldToday At 11:30
The election of the Presidents 
of the Senates of Engineering, 
Industries, and Arts is being held 
today from 11:30 to 1:30. Ballot 
boxes have been placed in the 
front hall of Industries and in the 
center halls of Arts and Engineer­
ing, and lists of nominees can be 
found there. The recent nomina­
tions for Presidents of the ' three 
Senates predict a strong fight and 
a close run in the election today.
The greatest number of nominees 
were put up by the School of En­
gineering w'liere L. M. Baugh, 
Frank Mueller, Marvin Fox, A. C. 
Redding, and II. R. Weitzel / were 
named. In the School of Indus­
tries, P. R. Magnuson and B. G. 
Zcilicr have been nominated. Leo 
Dasclibaoh, Latham Flanagan, Willi­
bald Ryshanck and H. Allen'Todd 
are the nominees in Arts School.
All three Presidents become mem­
bers of Student Council on elec­
tion, and from their number the 
President of Student Council will 
be elected. All the members of 
each school are allowed- to vote 
for the offices, 110 matter what 
class thejr belong to.
The election for offices in the 
Young Women’s Christian Associa­
tion and in the Women’s Athletic 
Association will be held today, 
also, between 11:30 and 1:30. The 
ballot boxes for this election will 
be in the usual place irf> the lia'l 
of Margaret Morrison.
(Continued on Page Four)
Cwens & Druids To Hold 
Tea Dance Thurs., Apr. 10
The Cwens and the Druids 
will hold a tea dance at the 
Union on Thursday, April 10, 
from 4:30 to 6. Jerry McGcorge’s 
Carnegiaris, who played for the 
Freshman tea dance, will also 
be the orchestra at this dance.
As a special feature a Paul 
Jones has been planned to make 
the dance more informal. Tickets 
may be bought from the Druids 
and the 'Cwens. As usual,” the 
price for men will be 50 ccnts 
and for women 25 ccnts. Nancy 
Sloan is chairman of the com­
mittee for the dance and Lois 
McGregor and Janet McClelland 
have charge of the tickets and 
orchestra. . >
NEW BOOKS ADDED 
TO PARRY SHELVES
A number of new books for the 
Parry Room in the Hut Library 
have been -purchased on the inter­
est from the Parry fund, and the 
$25 donated.by the C. I. T. Book 
Club. The books probably will 
have arrived by next week.
The Parry fund was created by 
a group of alumnae in honor of 
Miss Parry, a teacher of English 
at Carnegie, who, at her death, 
willed her collection of books to 
the school library. The interest on 
the fund now is used to replace 
volumes in the collection, and to 
purchase additional books. At first 
the Parry books were not loaned 
for home use, but now they may 
be borrowed under the same regu­
lations that govern the lending of 
the regular volumes. The C. I. T. 
Book Club this year donated $25 
for purchasing of Parry books.
Open Forum To Be Had 
By Debating Club April 24
The Margaret Morrison Debat­
ing Club held their regular lunch­
eon meeting in the Faculty Dining 
Room of the Carnegie Inn on 
Thursday, April 3. The subject of 
the debate given at that time was: 
“Resolved, that Sororities Should 
Be Admitted in Margaret Morri­
son.” The debate was won by 
Mary Houser and Edith Turner, 
who upheld the negative side. The 
affirmative was taken by Dorothy 
Alwine and Zarclda Mazza.
The next meeting, to be held on 
April 24, will be an open forum 
meeting consisting of two speakers 
and discussion from the floor.
COACH HOOVER CALLS 
PRACTICE SESSIONS 
FOR TENNIS SQUADS
We all know that springtime 
cannot approach without its various 
kinds of courting. Our fancy turns 
also to that courting surrounded by 
a wire fence, which ultimately lim­
its the area in which we have to 
search for pur badly batted tennis 
balls. In a few days the sap will 
run again; this time to the closet 
to wrest his racket from a covering 
of cobwebs. With a new set .of 
balls - the practice is on, and so 
Coach Hoover is making ready for 
the initial match on April 29 with 
W. & J.
Captain Kambach and Manager 
Pfouts have succeeded, . by means 
of corisidcrable work, in arranging an 
attractive, and also a difficult, 
schedule for this year. It will in­
clude trips to Johns Hopkins, 
Georgetown University, and the 
University of Maryland. Including 
Kambach, the returning veterans 
of last season are Caffee, Hardie, 
and McICloskey. Berghane and 
Julius have been lost to the squad.
(Continued on Page Four)
THREE LECTURES TO 
BE HELD IN UNION
In addition to the numerous lec­
tures delivered at Carnegie Tech 
throughout the past year, several 
more are scheduled for the future.
The first of these is Willis II. 
Carrier’s lecture on “Air Condi­
tioning.” This lecture will be de­
livered by Mr. Carrier in the Union 
April 30.
On May 15, Ralph Modjeski will 
discuss “Bridge Foundations.” On 
May 16, he will treat the subject 
of “Bridge Superstructures.” Mr. 
Modjeski is a consulting engineer 
from New York. As yet these lec­
tures are the only ones definitely 
scheduled, but it is possible that 
more may be added.
Last Thursday and Friday, Harte 
Cooke delivered two lectures on: 
“The Diesel Engine and Its Use 
in Transportation in Marine Serv­
ice and on Railways” and “Tlie 
Diesel Engine and .Its Use for Cen­
tral Stations and Industrial Power.” 
In these lectures lie discussed the 
principle, the development and the 
future of the Diesel engine. The 
majority of the lectures delivered 
at Carnegie are of a technical na­
ture, and the lecturers are authori­
ties in their respective fields.
Industrial Motion Pictures Conducted By Prof. S. Dibble
Professor S. E. Dibble has estab­
lished a scries of weekly- moving 
pictures of interest to all industries 
men. They will be shown at 4p.m. 
every Thursday, afternoon. Pro­
fessor Dibble intends to show two 
pictures each week, usually attended 
by a five-minute explanation of 
the film. Although it is generally 
recognized that these pictures are 
interesting and instructive, in the 
past the long-drawn-out, wait for 
the showing of .the films and the 
changing of reels has made the at­
tendance rather poor. In the future 
all tediousncss* and -waiting will be 
eliminated. Even the speakers will 
be limited to five minutes. If the 
films arc well attended Pr.ofessor 
Dibble : hopes to make them a 
weekly feature of the Industries 
program.
The first picture was “The Magic 
Flame.” This picture was directed 
by Professor Dibble himself in 
Chicago, and shows the uses of 
welding on actual construction 
work, in this case a welded steel 
structure.
On April 9 two pictures, “Fair 
and Warmer” and “The Fountain 
of Youth,” will be exhibited. The 
former picture is issued by the 
American Farm Bureau and deals 
(Continued on Page Four)
JUNIORS TO MAKE 
TRIP TO DETROIT
A group of junior aeronautical 
engineers accompanied by Professor 
Blaisdcll are to leave Thursday 
.evening of this week for a week­
end inspection trip to Detroit and 
Akron.
The group will leave by train 
on April 10 and will arrive in De­
troit Friday morning. The entire 
day will be spent at the Detroit 
Air Show, where the largest ex­
hibit of the. aircraft industries ever 
held in the United States is being 
conducted. In addition, the air­
craft industries located at Detroit 
will be visited.
On Completion of the sessions in 
Detroit the group will travel to 
Akron, O., where they will meet 
those students coming directly to 
Akron from Pittsburgh. Saturday 
will be spent at the Zeppelin han­
gars and the other divisions of the 
Goodyear aviation interests.
Scarab Plans Freshman
Awards and Spring Dance
Scarab, the national professional 
architectural honorary fraternity, 
held its monthly banquet at the 
William Penn Hotel on Thursday 
evening, April 3.
Plans were discussed for the an­
nual Spring Foripal. A week-end 
sketching tour was proposed and 
favorably agreed upon. It was also 
moved and passed that a prize be 
offered to the freshman, architects 
for'their class "D IX” design prob­
lem.
The new’ly-elected officers pre­
siding over the meeting were:K.F. 
Johnson, president; John Raulston, 
vice president; E. . A. Lundberg, 
secretary; C. A. Stoody, treasurer, 
and J. R. McKeever, sergeant-at- 
arms.
SENIORS
Today is the last day to place 
orders for Senior Booklets for 
CommerccmciU. Orders,¡.will be 
taken in the main hall of the 
Commencement. Orders will be 
11:30 and .1:30 and 'must be 
paid for when they arc placed. 
This is also the last day that 
the night school sale is open.
These booklets will take place 
¿of the ordinary commencement 
week program, and will contain 
the names of the seniors who' 
arc graduating from the four 
schools. They will also con­
tain the names of the night 
school students who will receive 
diplomas or certificates. There 
will be a section containing pic­
tures of campus buildings and 
grounds, besides a. section of 
night school activities.
B. Iden Payne 
Directs Comedy 
Of Shakespeare
“Love’s Labor Lost” is Next 
Production of Drama 
Department
“Love’s Labor Lost,” a Shakes­
pearean comedy, will open in the 
Little Theater on Tuesday evening, 
April 15, under the direction of 
Mr. Iden Payne, former head of 
the department of drama. Mr. 
Payne, who is at present associat­
ed , with the Goodman .Memorial 
Theater in Chicago, is visiting 
Carnegie as guest director of the 
Shakespearean production.
“Love’s Labor Lost,” described 
as a “pleasant, conceited, comcdie!" 
is a play that for some time hits 
been neglected and more or less 
despised. TJic modern critics; 
however, arc taking a, renewed in­
terest in it, because of its wealth 
of clever characterization and con 
vcrsation. Although it ‘is a far cry 
from Shakespeare to Bernard 
Shaw, it is thought that it was 
Shaw’s introduction of the play' of 
slight plot that has brought out the 
interest in “Love’s Labor Lo,st.”
The comedy was. written in 1593 
during the . plague for-performance 
at a private home. It is probably 
(Continued on Page Four)
SPRING CARNIVAL 
TO TAKE FORM OF 
PRECEDING YEARS
“The Mask and Face” 
To Be Presented At 
Y.M.&W.H.A. Playhouse
The Y. M. and W. II. A. "Play- 
house” is presenting B. Iden Payne, 
formerly head of the Drama Depart­
ment here, in a modern play by 
C. B. Fernald, “The Mask and the 
Face," this evening and tomorrow, 
April 8 and 9, in the Morris Kauf- 
mann Memorial Auditorium;
Mr. Payne, who has returned to 
direct the production of ,a Shake­
spearean play here at Carnegie, is 
cast in the role of the. hero, a man 
whose weakness is proved by the 
extreme lengths to which he goes 
to escape the ridicule of his friends. 
In this drama of the intrigues of 
frivolous couples for whom flirta­
tion is the breath of life, Mr. Payne 
is supported by an excellent cast 
of “Y” players. Philip Greenwood, 
who graduated from the Drama 
Department here last June, fills the 
role of Georges Almairc, one of the 
wealthy, but slightly decadent crea­
tures, who are interested in loafing.
Carnegie Tech students will un­
doubtedly enjoy this satire, both 
because of its interesting plot and 
the chance to see these two former 
Carnegieites again.
Y. W. C. A. To Elect
Next Year’s Officers
The Y. W. C. A. will elect its 
officers. for the next year on Fri­
day, April 11. The following wom­
en were nominated at a recent 
cabinet meeting: For president,
Imogene Schory and Margaret 
Nichols; for vice president, Betty 
Goodwin and Sally Beatty; for sec­
retary, Dorothy McKcc and Ger­
trude Novak; for treasurer, Ruth 
Brooks and Floy Sample.
The Pennsylvania College for 
Women will have charge of the 
dinner and program at the Student 
Industrial meeting which will be 
held on the P. C. W. campus this 
Wednesday evening at 6 o’clock. 
The manufacture of cork and the 
cork industry will be the subject 
of this week’s program. In each 
of these meetings the college girls 
present some research work which 
they have, done 011 the particular 
industry under discussion and the 
working girls from the factories, 
tell • of their work and the prob­
lems connected with it. The latter 
part of the meeting is devoted to 
a general discussion.
Anyone who is interested may 
attend these meetings. Sally Beatty 
is the Industrial chairman on the 
Carnegie “Y” cabinet.
Interfraternity Migratory to 
Be Omitted From the 
Program
Council Approves Heads
Election For Campus Queen 
to Be Held Around 
First of May
A faculty committee has been ap­
pointed to co-operate with the 
Spring Carnival . Committee in the 
development of certain parts of the 
program including the Pagacnt and 
the Cabaret Dance. The commit­
tee is composed of Allen E. Rise- 
dorph, Milton S. Mulloy, Mrs. V. G. 
Parisi, Miss Anne Porter, Miss' 
Doris Portman, and Miss Louise 
Russell.
Following the ratification of the 
Spring Carnival plan by the Stu­
dent Council and the Executive 
Board, committee heads were ap­
pointed and approved.by the Stu­
dent Council. The officers of the 
Spring Carnival Committee arc: 
James B- • Ashwcll, chairman; Char­
les Sclsaiii and Joseph Cooke, as­
sistant chairmen; Margaret Keenly, 
secretary; and Andrew Ycrina, 
treasurer. The -‘chairman of the 
sub-committees " are: Thomas Lip 
pert, publicity; Ricliard ' Deverall,1 
social; Henry Bunker, -.registration; 
Richard Mayn'e, qualifications; 
David. Tomer, sweepstakes; Robert 
Wright, country fair; Kenneth 
.Owens, Country fair business; J. 
R. Britton, lighting; and L. F. 
Bura'ii,: construction.
The program- as planned will fol­
low,; in general, the programs of 
the . old Campus Week«? wUH the 
omission of the IntcrfraterniK; Mi­
gratory Dance and the Campus 
Week Vaudeville Show. The In- 
tetfratc'rnity Council voted to dis- 
c'ontihuc the Migratory at a meet­
ing- held over a month ago. The 
Mardi Gras will be replaced by) 
a more Scotch-like affair, the High­
land . Fling. An election for the 
Campus Queen will be held about 
the first of May. The girl re­
ceiving the most votes will reign 
as. Campus Queen over all of the 
Spring Carnival event's. Several of 
the girls receiving high votes will’ 
serve as maids of honor. In con­
trast to last year’s farcial momen­
tary reign' of the Canrpus Queen 
this year she will be restored to 
her former power and glory.
Engineers Given 
Opportunity For 
Work In Russia
J0I111 D. Beatty, of .the Bureau of 
Recommendations, has received 
from Arthur G. MfcKee & Co. the 
following letter /Regarding work in 
Russia. Mr. Beatty is referring it 
to Carnegie Senior Engineers inter­
ested in that type' of' work.
'Gentlemen: Wc arc now prepared 
to undertake the immediate contact 
Syitli men who have had good, 
thorough field experience in the 
erection of the component parts 
of a complete steel mill. These 
men should be men without families, 
except their wives, and men who 
will tell us immediately they are 
.willing ' to go to Russia for two 
and one-half to four years.
Wc need men who have expe­
rience .with and are completely 
familiar With the building, general 
layout of plant, installation of 
tracks, sewers,, steam, water, gas 
and electric lines, as applied to 
steel mills.
We will also need men expe­
rienced in the building of concrete 
dams of the minor type, trestles 
and elevated track structures, erec­
tion of blast furnaces, building of 
open hearth and other types of 
special steel mill furnaces and the 
installing of heavy steel mill ma­
chinery such , as rolls, etc., electrical 
installations, including transmission 
lines; transformers, distributing 
panels, motors and with a very 
great variety of hookups and gear­
ing, mining, ore crushing; screen­
ing, concentrating and transporting 
equipment, cranes, crancways, coal 
storage, and handling equipment, 
etc.
These men arc not to actually 
do the work; they must be men 
whose experience is such that they 
can assist the Russian executives 
in the direction of the work and 
know that it is properly dbnc.
It is not ntccssar^ that all of 
them be engineers, although most 
of them, of necessity, must be 30.
The site is on the eastern slope 
of the Ural Mountains on longitude 
58 degrees East and approximately 
(Continued on Page Four)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, 'APRIL' S, 1930.
Frat-Dorm Teams 
Finish Schedule 
For This Season
these teams were able to emerge 
as victors in their respective 
•leagues. In the Federal League 
the Betas proved to be far superior 
to all of their opponents, winning 
(Continued on Page Four)
Carnegie Graduate 
Awarded Prize For 
C. ofC. Plaque Design
First Annual Architectural 
Exhibition to Be Held 
April 7-12
Phi Kappas, winners in the Na­
tional League; and the Beta Sigma 
Rho’s, winners in the American 
League, participating. It was only 
after a strenuous campaign that
Women’s AthleticsClan News
One of the most enjoyable of 
spring sports is baseball. Under 
the supervision of Lois McGregor, 
baseball manager, practices will, be­
gin this week. They will be held 
every noon from 12:30 to 1:30 in 
the Carnegie bowl. When the 
weather docs not permit, practices 
will be held in the women’s gym 
as in previous years. Baseball be­
ing a minor sport, 75 points "will 
be awarded to team members and 
50 points to those girls who have 
attended half the scheduled num­
ber of practices.
Last year/ much interest was 
shown at the games. played in the 
bowl and this year with the de­
lightful spring weather already 
here the baseball season prom­
ises to be very successful.
Cleveland Men’s Clan
The Cleveland Men’s Clan, held 
a meeting on March 21 at the 
Cleveland • Chamber of- Commerce. 
The 12 men who were present de­
cided to hold a luncheon once a 
month to which all the Carnegie 
Alumni of Cleveland arc cordially 
invited. Detailed . information may 
be had .ftom Eugene “Winks" 
Dowling,, at 6300 Euclid avenue.
The officers or this clan are: 
President, C. A. Emery, 3292 Cove 
avenue, Lakewood; vice president, 
M. R. Walton, 12497 Cedar road; 
secretary,, John J. Carr, 1888 Page 
avenue; treasurer, A. C. May, 11786 
Clifford boulevard, Lakewood.
Beta Sigma Rho, Phi Kappa 
and Beta Theta Pi 
Are VictorsGEORGE H. MERRIN
Ulrich Schoonbcrgcr, architect, 
graduate of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, class of 1925, has been
awarded first prize for his de­
sign of the bronze plaque to be 
awarded to the winners in the
three classes of competition in the 
first annual architectural exhibi­
tion of the Pittsburgh Chamber of 
Commerce to be held, April 7-12.
Schoenbcrgcr, graduate of the
Carnegie School of Architecture, 
class of 1925, executed his design 
depicting inspired architecture at 
the junction of the three rivers of 
Pittsburgh, raising its handiwork 
above the clouds of mediocrity to­
ward the star of merit. At either 
.sides of this picture are the rolls 
of honor, on which will be in­
scribed the names of the winning 
architects and the type of build­
ings designed by them within the 
last five years, which won the 
award.
Nearly 200 exhibits have been 
entered in the contest which open­
ed Monday morning, April 7, in 
the auditorium of the local cham­
ber. The exhibition will be open 
daily and will be free to the pub­
lic which will have a vote in de­
ciding the winners in. the classes 
of compction as follow: residen­
tial structures, commercial and in­
stitutional buildings. Entries of 
structures planned and designed by 
Pittsburgh architects within a 100- 
mile radius of the city arc eligible 
for competition.
The exhibition, planned by the 
architects council of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber, is for Pittsburgh archi­
tects only. It was designed primar­
ily to encourage the commission­
ing of local architccts for Pitts­
burgh building, to develop better 
work and to acquaint the general 
public with the architectural talent 
existing in Pittsburgh today.
The regular intra-mural basket­
ball schedule ended last week, and 
the final playoffs are being held 
this week with the Beta Theta Pi’s, 
winners in the Federal League; the
sure... that’s the way they did 
it in ’8j.. . hut act your age!
The Whole School’s 
Talking! . . .
And there’s a reason 1 You’ll talk 
fast and happily, too, when you 
taste one of our much-talked- 
abput charcoaled sandwiches.
Northern New Jersey Clan
On the evening of March 26 the 
North Jersey Clan held its March 
meeting. The party started with a 
dinner at the Hotel Shelton. After 
dinner a visit was paid to the 
Wcstihghousc Lighting Institute in 
the Grand Central Palace. Motion 
pictures taken of the California 
trip of the football team were 
shown..in Ihc auditorium of the 
Institute.
. D. W. Atwater, illuminating en­
gineer, of the Wcstinghousc Lamp 
Company, gave an illustrated talk 
on unusual lightings. A tour was 
then made of the Institute which 
created so much interest that many 
of those present arranged to re­
turn to the Institute at some later 
date to go through it . again in 
more detail.
The next meeting of the North 
Jersey Clan will be held at Wil­
kin's Coffee Shop in Newark.
S. A. E. Formal Dance
The alumni of the Carnegie Tech 
and University of Pittsburgh Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity will hold 
their annual Spring Formal in the 
Venitian Room at Webster Hall 
on Saturday, April 12, Alumni and 
actives of both chapters are eligible 
to attend. A well-known Pittsburgh 
orchestra will furnish music for 
the dance. A number of prominent 
alumni will be at the dance.'
THE boys of ’87 did things in a dif- 
ferent way.
They took buggy rides, of a Sunday, 
behind docile nags (unless the Livery 
Man had a sense of humor!) . . .
They danced the Schottische with a 
slow and easy grace (unless they happened 
to know the disgraceful two-step!)
They wrote laborious letters to thefolks 
back home with stubborn, raspy pens 
(unless they were pressed for time and 
didn’t write at all!)
But listen to what the boys of ’30 dol 
They buzz away over week-ends, behind 
eight-in-line engines that can do eighty 
without half trying;
they fume through frantic fox-trots that 
would make an acrobat green with envy;
they go to telephones and, almost in a 
jiffy, are talking with the Home Folks.
How Tempus does Fugit!
{P. S. This is NOT an automobile ad or 
anad for your favorite dance orchestra/ 
Just a reminder that telephoning Home 
is the modern way of keeping in touch.}
Open Friday and Saturday 
Evenings ’Til 2 A. M.
IMPORTANT
Manager Charles Selsam re­
quests that all varsity basketball 
men report in the Trophy Room 
at 4:30 today, April 8.
Enright Theater Bldg. 
EAST LIBERTY
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
“The Oakland Bank”
NOTICE
The following articles were found 
in the Hut Library and may be 
claimed in the Receiving Office in 
the Central building:
1 girl’s green and white scarf.
1 pair men’s pigskin gloves.
1 light glove (right).
CAPITAL $300,000.00 SURPLUS $500,000.00 DEPOSITS OVER $6,000,000.00Ohio Northern’s Physical Tor­
ture Department is coming right to 
the front like a hand grenade over 
the front line trenches. With the 
slogan, “We build men and reduce 
co-eds,’* it is expanding in all di­
rections like an old inner tube.
C. B. Aylesworth.R. J. Miller______O. C. Young -----
F. W. Cotton____C W. Eh ni______
Adam Roscoe ___
__________President____Vice President_____ Treasurer-
Assistant Treasurer__________Secretary
.Assistant SecretaryDependable
Fof College parties and for Class and Fraternity affairs our service is de­pendable and reasonably priced.
We are glad to furnish the Pastries. Ice Creams, Candies, etc.. for affairs that don’t require cater­ing.
We Rent Equipment 
Tables, and chairs with covers, also linens, china, silver and glassware 
rented in any quantity. 
Try our noon and evening lunchcs when in E. Liberty
Store Hours:8 A M. to 11:30 P. M.
Have you choscn 
your life work?
In the field of health service The Har­
vard University Dentili School—Ihe old­
est dental school connected with any university In Hie United States—offers 
thorough well-bnlnnced courses in all 
branch« of dentistry. All modem equip- 
ment for practicrd work under super­
vision of men high in the profession. 
Write ¡or details and admission require­
ments to I.eroy M. S. Miner, Dean 
HAUVAKD tJNlVHUSITY 
DENTAL SCHOOL 
Loniwood Ave. Bastoni Mam.
DIRECTORSC. B. Aylesworth 
James B. Clark. John Dimling 
Barney Dreyfuss- J. Rogers Flannery
L. II. Gethoefer 
C. -Hr -Kerr - - J. O. Miller R. J. Miller John G. PewA. B. Sheets
Member Federal Reserve System
THE HAVEN OF TECH STUDENTS IN EAST LIBERTY
CANDYLAND
WILL BE OPEN EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT 
UNTIL 2:30 A. M.
6214 Penn Avenue East Liberty
Young Men with Engineering Training
The pause that 
gives poise
There are several splendid opportunities open in 
our sales organization for young men of technical 
training.
The Arco Company manufactures a complete line 
of paints, varnishes, lacquers and enamels and 
sells these products not only throughout the 
entire United States but all over the world.
We are looking for young men whose training 
enables them to appreciate and explain technical 
processes and problems.
Applicants should be willing to travel and should 
have a satisfactory record of past performance in 
selling to industry. Experience in selling paint 
is not essential.
Please give full information about yourself, in 
your first letter—where you live—what training 
you have had, etc. Personal interview will be 
arranged.
David Andrew, Director of Sales,
THE ARCO COMPANY,
7301 Bessemer Avenue,
Cleveland, Ohio
Under New Mnnaccmcnt
3615 FORBES STREET
WEEK OF APRIL 9
Wednesday, April 9 
All Talking“NIGHT RIDE”
Joseph Schildkraut
Talking Comedy Novelties
Thursday and Friday, 
April 10 and 11
All Talking 
Extra Added Attraction- Big Double Bill‘Hungarian Rhapsody’
With a Special Cast, 
and“Barnum Was Right”
With Olcnn Tryon
Talking Comedy
Delicious and Refreshing |
t,w Pausethat refreshesSaturday, April 12 
All Talking“Girl From Havana”
With Lola Lano and 
Paul Page 
First Chapter of the Talking Serial:“THE VOICE FROM THE SKY"
Comes a time (as they eay) every day when 
it’s good to drop things—relax—and, calm, 
collected, cool, seek the hidden meaning 
of life.
Sign off for Jusl a minute, now and then, anti 
refresh yourself with an ice*cold Coca-Cola.
Ready for you—anytime—around the cor­
ner from anywhere. Nino million times a 
day the Thinkers and Doers of the nation 
find the pause that refreshes is what keeps 
the world wagging.
The Cscn-CcU Censpaay, Aliente. G*. r
CW-*
Eduudca t ionll it had to be goo_d to get where jt js
LISTEN IN-«~
Graotland Rica -**' Famous 
Sport* Champion» •»-Coca-Col» 
Orchestri) -—Wednesday 10:30 
to 11 p. m. E. S. T. — Coast to 
Cps»t NBC Nnlwwk -v*»-
Monday and Tuesday, 
April 14 and 15
All Talking
“HOT FOR PARIS”
Victor McLaglen—~ 
Fife Dorsay 
Comedy —N^^

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April' 8, i$3&.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Corner Forben and Craig 
Streets
KT
Go Grade A 
tourist third 
cabin . . . 
LEVIATHAN
This eeason, brand new Tourist Third Cabin on theLEVIATHAN, World’6 Largest Ship... the entire second cabin assigned to tourist Thiyd”... all its beautiful public rooms and staterooms ... its ele­gant, open upper deck social hall which gives you a full sweep of the sea... its charming cloistered smoking hall... its vast open and enclosed decks for play and prom* enades... luxuries and spacious­ness exceeding former standards for this class. Second Class, as a class, abolished . .. new Tourist Third Cabin rated "Grade AMand the LEVIATHAN the only liner to offer this peerless rating! Make ha&te in booking thi6 new, luxu­rious way on the mightiestfiveday flyer to Cherbourg and Southamp­ton. Hates low.
Excellent Tourist Third Cabin 
Accommodation» alto on United 
State* Cabin Lintri . . , for at 
linl* cm flO.25 a day}
OFFICIAL FLEET OF 103 COLLEGE 
ALUMNI ORGANIZATIONS FOR 
EUROPEAN TRAVEL
Consult your local sloatmhip agent or
UNITED STATES
Take the wheel"of your career!
WHY NOT take the time now to think 
this over? To get anywhere in the world 
of business—just as in driving an auto­
mobile— a man must choose a definite 
road and keep on it.
Natural ability gives him power 
¦to go ahead — college tunes him up 
to go faster. But to get anywhere 
he must have a “steering gear” —
a guiding purpose, an ambition in life.
Every man has certain aptitudes and 
interests that fit him peculiarly for one 
kind of work rather than another. A little 
carcful self-analysis will help you to 
get started in the right direction. 
Industry always has room for the 
man who knows what work he 
wants to do and can do.
LINES
W. W. Davidson. General Agant, -70S- Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh,
Phone’f1A CE 1 IZl M A ¡A U F A C X u R 5 £ 5 £ OK. THE B E LL . SYSTEM
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO 
THE NIGHT STUDENTSîlbe Carnegie flMaifc
PROMPT RETURNS FOR 
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY 
TO BE MADE.
Student
Well, talk about your yellow sheet, 
call it pink sheet .if you will, last 
week’s issue certainly gave me a 
thrill. It is no wonder the students 
riot, or Senior' Civil gets Job. Or maybe, those . oisonied . patrons are 
STILL wrecking the Police over 100 
Mash barrels destroyed^ when Sky 
H: was padlocked. All in all it was
an out and out knockout issue and 
will be talked about during the many 
weeks to come.The Maybc-Pcrhaps article is a 
timely one, and should produce many 
and varied results. I have often 
wanted to take a poke at some of 
those individuals who "think they are 
superior to others, and resort to 
that subterfuge of sarcasm. Some­
times this is an indication of defeet, 
only they don’t know it and they 
5,till keep on walking.¦ Every time I sec the word “charett 
1 somehow think cf cigaret; no 1 
don’t mean Old Gold or some of 
those other brands one sees adver­
tised so much' admonising you . that 
you should reach for a thus and so 
when you desire something else. I 
have never been on a cigaret, pardon, 
I should say "charett?” but from 
all indications it isn’t the best or 
most enjoyable predicament to be in, 
although periodically 1 notice that 
the night Architects arc on one of 
these pastimes. Some day I am 
going to try out being on a charett 
and then I will tell you how it feels. 
However, I hope the Night Archi­
tects ;come through with-their prob­
lem in good style.I guess that the Safety light at 
the Cut—Forbes and Morewood— 
won’t be put into operation before 
the end of this school- year. Much 
to my sorrow, as I certainly think 
{this improvement should be installed 
tat all events immediately. Eventually 
'•it will have to be done, so why not 
[¡now. I have often noticed the shelter 
which was erected at the Cut^ put 
to use, particularly on wet nights 
such as we had • during the past 
•week. They are indeed an improve­
ment and are much - appreciated.
I sec they are getting the 1930 
THISTLE shaped up, pictured n- 
evcYything,, and from all indications 
this is going to.be a fine number. 
The night students' are included in 
¦this publication and they‘should sup­
port it. I expect to get my copy, 
real soon.
Any war orphan passing the 
entrance examinations will be edu­
cated at Princeton free of charge, 
it was announced recently.
Let’s Go To 
TECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS
Carnegie Institute of Technology—Night Courses
Courses Offered in the Supplementary Term 1930 
May 5 to July 3, Inclusive, Unless Otherwise Indicated 
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIESI. For students in vocational courses:For students who arc planning1 to' complete one of the four-year courses leading to a certificate, the* following subjects in mathematicsand physics are offered. In each subject the work of the first termwill be given from Islay 5 to June 4; the work of the second term, from June 4 to July 3. Students may register for the work of either term or for the work of both terms. The tuition fee for the work of both terms in any subjtect is $12; for the work of one term, $6. Each subject is scheduled Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 7:30-9^30..
Cn-21 Vocational Mathematics (E.H. 69)
Cn-‘J3 Elementary Alesbra (E.H. 70)
Cn-25 Elementary Trigonometry (E.H. 100)
Cn-26 Plane Geometry A (E.H. 55)
E-99 Vocational Physics (E.H. Ill)II. For students in the general studies course:For each of the following subjects, except Cn-28, the calendar dates, schedule; hours, and tuition fees are the same as those of the subjects listed above. Cn-28 will continue for a period of thirteen weeks, May 5 to August 1; the work of the first term will be given from May 5 to June 18: that of the second term, from June 18 to August 1. The tuition fee for both terms of C-n 28 is $18; for either term alone, $9.
Cn-29 Plane Geometry A, same as Gn-20, listed above.
E-97 Elementary Physics A. (E.H. Ill)
E-9S Elementary Physics B. (E.H. 108)
E-97-98 Elementary Physic3 A-B, 1st term, same as E-97
B-87-9S Elementary PhyBicB A-B. 2nd term, same as E-9S
Cn-28 Algebra B, May 6-Aug. 2 (E.H. 215)
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERINGIt is very important, that students in the second or third 3’ears of the course in civil engineering who have not had E-276 take E-276 sur­veying I during the supplementary term, of 1930, provided they have hadthe prerequisite, C-52. Surveying I (E-276) is prerequisite for furthercourses in the department of civil engineering, is given only in thesupplementary term, and is given only every other year. E-276 willnot be offered again until the supplementary term of 1932.Students following a degree program should schedule one of thefollowing subjects,- in accordance with information on pages 90-94 of the 1929^30 catalog of night courses: C-110, C-351, C-421, C-422, orE-276.The .work of the first term of C-110, C-351, C-421, and C-422 will be given from May 5 to June 4; that .of C-54 and E-20, from May 5 to June-18.- The work of the second term of C-110, C-351, C-421 and C-422 will extend from June 5 to July 3; that of- C-54 and E-20 from June 18 to August 1. The fees marked* include a .$5.00 laboratory deposit..'Any student who wishes information or advice concerning his plans for the supplementary term should call at the registrar’s officc.
I. First Ycor Subjects
. .C-52 Trigonometry. 2nd term, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 201 (?12)
E-176b Gen. Chemistry, rec., 2nd term, M.F. 7:30-9:45, E.H. 216 (39)
E-176b Gen. Chemistry, Lab., 2nd term, W. 7:30-10:30. E.H. 214 (SU)”
II. Second Year Subjects 
C-53a An. Gcom. & Calc. I. 1st term. M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 211 (?12)
; C~53b An.' Gcom. & Calc. I, 2nd term, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 205 ($12)
EMlb Physics I. rec;. 2nd term, M.F. 7:30-9:45, E.H. 209, 212 (?9)'
.IMlb Phyaic6 1. lab., 2nd term. W. 7:30-10:30, E.H. 102. 107- (?6)
E-276 Surveying T, M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, E.H. 60. S (S12) (May 5 to June 13)
. C-421 Drwg. & Dose. Gcom. I, 1st & 2nd terms, M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 318 ($23)* 
III. Third Year (or Upper Year) Subjects 
E-20 Mechanica I. 1st & 2nd terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30. E.H. 71 ($18)
(May 5 to Aug. 1)
G-54 An. Geom. & Calc. II. 1st & 2nd terms, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30. E.H. 207 ($1S) 
iMay 5 to Aug. 1)
C-422 Drwg. & Desc. Geom. 11, 1st & 2nd terms, M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, Ind. 211 ($23)«
E-276 Surveying I, M.W.F. 7:30-10:30, E.H. 60. 3 ($12) (May 5 to June 13) 
IV. Elective Subject«
C-110 English J, M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 115-A (?.I2)
C-351 Economics I. M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, E.H. 72 ($1-2)
V. Special Subjects 
E-572 Refrigeration, M.W. 7:30-10:30, M.II. . 10. ($12).. (May 5 to June 4) 
Subjects with less than twelve-registrants, jnay be withdrawn.
-Registration during the week of April 28 to.May 2 between 7:00 and 9:00 and on Monday, May 5, between 6:30 and 7:15 in the regis­trar’s office. Students-who withdraw the first week will receive a re­fund of tuition fee less $2.00; no refunds arc made after the first week 
I<. M. Ihrig, Director of Night Courses.
THE NEED OF AN 
ACTIVITIES BUILDING
The need-of a building to be used 
for the sole purpose of Student 
Activities at Carnegie is - becoming
more and more. Apparent with each 
successive year. At the present time 
it is hard to arrange dates for af­
fairs to be held on the Campus. 
There are many . social functions 
scheduled by both day and night 
student bodies and dubs during the 
school year and as the Union and
the auditorium of tiie men’s gym 
are the only large halls available for 
such purposes, there have been several 
conflicting dates. A few examples 
of this condition may be worth note-1 
ing. On the evening of the Night 
Engineers’ Smoker last fall, another 
affair" was being held in the Union 
and, as an emergency measure, the 
women’s gym was pressed into serv­
ice by the Engineers. On another 
instance, the occasion of a Night 
Student Council Dance to be held 
in the gym auditorium, there was in­
terference in the decoration of the 
gym by basketball games being 
scheduled. Again, Thistle pictures 
were to be taken In the Union and 
when the photographer and students 
arrived at the appointed time they 
found the Union being used by a 
group holding a smoker.
The addition of a Student Activi­
ties Building on the Campus would 
provide the necessary space for all 
of these affairs and put an end to
all the anxiety caused by conflicting 
dates. <
Next, how is suc'i a building to be 
provided for? Many of the large 
colleges and universities throughout 
the country have Student Activities 
buildings and, with few exceptions, 
the cost of the buildings have been 
defrayed by contributions from stu­
dents and alumni.
As you remember, in the past 
several years each student was pe­
titioned to turn over the unused por­
tion of his breakage deposit to help 
pay the cost of either the Shelter 
House or the Student Activities Build­
ing. These contributions are about 
evenly divided between the two pro­
jects. We now have- the Shelter 
House and the Board of Trustees 
have informed us that the cost of 
erecting this very useful shelter was 
paid by the school and that all money 
contributed by students for that pur­
pose will now be applied towards 
the Student Activ’iies Building.
So you see there is quite an
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
RICHARD K. MELLON 
THUS. H. McCANDLESS . 
HÀRRT S. BROWN_____
OFFICERS
-Viea Pré«, and Caahlar 
--------------&«wlitant Caa&lej
BOARD OF
THOMAS S. BAKER 
Preaidont Carnegie Institute of
Technology 
JOHN G. BOWMAN 
Chancellor Unlvsraity of 
Pittsburgh 
JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhead A Knox. Attorney« 
JOHN CASEY 
President,. John.. F.. Carey Co.
ELMER >. dOLB 
Prssldent, National: Union tf'tr*
, Inauranctf Oompany
HOWARD Mi JOHNSON 
Auditor. Llgonler Valley Railroad
No Service Charge
DIRECTORS
RICHARD Si. MELLON 
President 
Director, Mellon Nation*] Bank 
THOMAS H. McCANDLESS 
Vic« Pm!d«nt and C*»hler 
WILLIAM S. MOOREHEAD 
Moorhead A Knox. Attorn«-» 
HERBERT A. HAY 
Vic« President Union Dramn 
St*eJ Company 
HENRY A. PHILUPS 
R«J Citato 
ALAN M. SCAirS ! V|q« President, Wm. D.fiona 0>wp*By 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director. M«Hon Inatltato eX 
Tndaitrl«] R**e*reh
on Small Accounts
amount of money contributed to­
wards the Activities Building by the 
Night Students. All money con­
tributed towards this projcct is in­
cluded in the Camcgic 1946 Endow­
ment Fund which means that for 
every dollar raised up to that time 
the Carnegie Corporation of New 
York will give two dollars, provid­
ing we raise at least $4,000,000. All 
money spent for buildings previous 
to 1946 will multiply in the usual 
two-for-one way. Here is,an example
of how the contributions grow. A 
night student who was awarded a 
Night Student. Council . Scholarship 
immediately turn I Ins check for 
$30 over to the Endowment Fund 
with the stipulation that it be ap­
plied towards the Student Activities 
Building projcct. At compound inter­
est, sixteen years from now it will 
be worth $66, and when the Carnegie 
Corporation adds its $132, the total 
benefit to Carnegie from this one 
contribution will amount to $198,
DYNAMITE dears tiie way for modem engineering wonders!
NEW YORK 
CENTRAL 
used 
DYNAMITE 
io ici den its 
main Une
from Storm King to Manitou!
T
HE tnpk of clearing the way for additional tracks on the main lino 
of a busy bysteni seems an almost im­
possible undertaking. And yet. tho New York Central Railroad did it.
From Storm King to Manitou, New
York...........a distance of nearly 15
miles.. * new tunnels driven, old ones enlarged, ledges of rock, from 60 to 90 
feet high, removed—whilo 125 trains 
per day sped by within n few feet of 
the operations!
Without dynamite such a feat tvould 
. hnvcbecnpractieallyimpoHsible. With 
the help of du Pont Explosives, tho job of excavating 900,000 cubic yards 
of rock went through and this famous 
railroad improved its passenger and 
freight service!
What a part dynamito plays in mod­
ern life! It breaks grouud for towering skyscrapers. Itbuilds tunnels. Itaida 
in tho construction of bridges, roads.
dams, subways. It digs coal, quarries 
rock. « . unearths raw materials that 
go into tho making of a thousand and ouo cvery-day products.
No engineer of tomorrow can afford noL to know all there is to know about 
this valuable tool . .. dynamite. You 
have a chance to learn more about 
explosives and how to use them . ... 
now . . . while you’re still in college.
All you need to do is to writo tho 
du Pont Company for a copy of tho Blasters' Handbook, This book con­
tains n wealth of information about; explosives—information gathered by 
du Pont in 1211 years* experienco in 
making and improving explosives. So 
valuable is this book ... so compact 
and handy . . . it is used in tho claHH- 
rooniB and dormitoriea of mnny of tho 
leading technical institutions. Your 
free copy in waiting for you. Writo for it.
(gUPDip) EXPLOSIVES
Ê.Ï. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO., INC., Explosive* Depnrtmont, WI!mIi.Klo«.,Do!.
To pipes, 
Men, 
to Pipes!
Tradition A. it that y*
shall know the fellowship of 
pipe3 with seasoned, masculine, mel­
low men of every age and degree.
Some try to join this brother­
hood, yet fail, and are absolved as 
born to pipelesa lives. But honest 
effort is required-each man's own 
test with good tobacco in a good pipe*
That is the formula. Both pipe 
and tobacco must be good. The 
pipe must be pure of bowl, and the
tobacco must be--------
, Well, Edgeworth, if you'll permit* 
—good old Edgeworth, Clans of ’04. 
Tried Edgeworth yet? Now’s your 
chance I Use the magic coupon, and 
we’ll rush right back to you a free- 
for-nothing packet of genuine Edge-, 
worth to fill your good pipe with.
¡<—ifcPttn» , Edgeworth fa o careful 
blend of rfoorf tobacco* 
—»elected especially for 
plpc-nmoklng. Ita quality 
nnclHavornororo/inni/i*. 
Buy Edgeworth nny-, 
where in two form»— 
"Ready Rubbed" and 
f'Plug Slice”—15»! pock- 
ot paclcnae to pound hu­
midor tin.
EIIGEWOIITII
SMOKIN« TOBACCO
{ LAliUS & BRO. CO.
¡ 100 8. 23d St., Richmond, Vu. 
jj T'll try your Kclnewortti, Aud I’ll try 
, it In r ¿ood pipo.
KTamr-
S ...............
Town and Stnte»
Now lot tho Ed¿oworth aomct V ¦
... at the plate it's
Actions IFrida yAplr1 than -words-.
wh*t you want to know about n cigarette is 
how it tost a»
And words can*t tell you much about 
Chesterfield’s taste. Tobacco quality, mild fra- 
grtnce, character—these are only words, until 
you’ve tried Chesterfield; after that, three 
words say it all:
“TASTE above everything'
i/a
UUUVC WCIL/llUILy ^ MILD... and yet
O
 & THEy sAT,sFyhesterfield
FINE TURKISH and DOMESTIC tobacco*, not only BLENDED but CROSS-BLENDED

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURtin. C.KJ1 n, iniCTAWTUESDAY, APRIL 8, 1930.
%ït CamEflisîàrtan
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2S00 
Puhtlnhod once every week durine tho colicúo yciir by underfrrndualofl* „.v. ........ ü....» ..._ ». »»_ ______ of CnrncKl*
Institut« oì Technology/ Entered in Tho PltteÍiurs:h Pont Office nn »iccond-clnnn mutier.
Editor-in-Chicf I Business Manager)'Inlaid Editor—---------Managing Editor-----News Editor-----------Women’s Editor-----
THE STAFF
„Thomas W. Lippcrl 
—Edw. E. McDonald_____Jacob S. Carpe_____Catherine Boyd_____Rosemary Barr
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Wilfred Worland Henry L. Bunker 
Janet Adler Hyman J. Levinson
ALUMNI
Alumni Editor___Ida M. Campbell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
G. L. Borgcrding H. R. Wall 
Isabel Levin John J. Boyle .
J. F. Spencer
BUSINESS
Advertising Manager—David Center 
Paul Wile Irwin Fritz
J. P. Jones William Gesling
R. E. Campbell 
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS, 
Mary Gordan Pearle M. Goldberg 
Floy Sample Dorothy Yingling
ATHLETICS
Editor___«Assistants „
_Dodo Mcrrin „Johnny Alms
Jim SuittReporters_1---------Tank HighbergerBud Hower Mike Michaelson
PLAID STAFF 
James S. Gcyer E. DeLorenzo
E. J. Molyncaux D. E. South
CONTRIBUTORS
F. E. Foote Nancy NewmanHelen Whitehill
REPORTERS
V. McBride 
K. A. Pal en N. Sloan G. M. Jarvis S. Winikolï E. Steiner E. Pearsall M. I-Iauser D. Mather
O. Weniger
G. NovakH. D. Kolb K. L. Grcss '/. Mazza 15. AppleR. Grant 
L. 1-Ioyer H. Maxwell . Gindcr
OiTico—Room 12, Induntrlcn Bulldlnar. OfTlce Hour»—Monday to Thuradny, 12:30- 
1:20. Pnpcr mndo up Fridny 12:30-6:00.
To Innuro publlcntlon on tho miccccdlnK Tuesday .news Items must be in tne 
student post oiTico or Tnrtnn OfTieo before 4:30 Thursdny.
After OiTico Hours, Cnll—
Editor, Mnyflower 7208 ; Pinid Editor, Schcnlcy 2389 
Mnnngins: Editor, Homestend 0785-R; Dusinens MnnnEcr, Schcnlcy 0082 
Advertising MnnnKcr, Schcnlcy 0211
THE STUDENT WELFARE COMMITTEE
• This space has been reserved for a series of short articles fur­nished by the Student Welfare Committee, the members of which arc Dean Green, Dean Tarbcll, Miss Helm, Mrs. Kirk-Patrick, * Mr. Davis, the president of (he Student Council, the president of the Women's Dormitory Council, and Professor Wurts, .chair­
man.
The purpose of these articles is to place before the student body, in as few words as possible, some of the high spots on such subjects as-manners,'customs, ethical standards, behavior, “R. S. 
V. P.”, etc.
It is felt that in any large gathering of young men and women there will always be some who would welcome a plain , word or 
two along these lines.
Questions will be welcome, and, if not too difficult, will be 
cheerfully answered.
CULTURE
Cuture is not an outside finish like varnish. It is something very much on the inside and much more enduring. It is not easily defined, though it is really a part of our being. It is not manners. Manners have to do with outward forms and correspond more to the outside finish. There arc “table manners," “parlor manners," “courtly manners," “bad manners." lj’s bad manners to cat with a knife or to chew gum in public.. It is courtly in maniicrjo rise when a lady enters a drawing room and “good morning" or “how. do you do” are better manners than "hello." But these things are 
all on the surface. They sire not culture.
Culture requires study—reading of good books, observation, travel, a power of appreciating things that arc fine arid bea'utiful in nrt and music, in Nature and in literature. Culture seeks refine­ment and reaches forward toward I he higher things of life. It lias often been likened to the cultivation- of plants. Without go­ing into the science of plant life, it is obvious that for best results a plant must have proper food, good soil and plenty of sunshine, water, etc, So also the human being, for best results, that is to be cultivated must desire, have and be able to assimilate the best menial foods. I-Ic must live in a wholesome atmosphere of thought and conversation and finally lie must he able lo give out (you see this culture tiling comes from within) that which he has 
so earnestly absorbed.
All this will have to come gradually—just as in the growing plant. It must develop, ripen and mellow until we finally have tiie charm of the cultivated man, woman or flower. A cultivated man or woman will talk with ease on any subject and he pppular Avliei'cvcr he goes, He commands attention, lie is looked up lo as broad and a man of affairs, lie is the man that knows and he 
becomes a leader of men.
TECH CWENS
(Continued fmn Page fine)
FI'om 7:30 until 9:00 o’clock the 
girls enjoyed an informal party 
given at the Kappa Alpha Tlieta 
house. The visiting representatives 
spent the night cither at the soror­
ity houses or at the homes of 
girls belonging to the Alpha chap­
ter of Cwcns.
The main convention met Satur­
day morning at 9:30 o’clock. Fi­
nances and activities were dis­
cussed, a revised constitution ac­
cepted, and a new handbook con­
sidered.
At 1:00 o’clock, Dean Green en­
tertained the girls at a luncheon 
• at Mellon Hall, and until .4:30, .the 
afternoon was devoted to group 
conferences. Tea was tlicit served 
in the Kappa Alpha Tlieta house, 
and a model initiation service given.
A formal banquet at the Heinz 
House brought the convention . to 
a close. Martha Burry from the 
Carnegie Tech Music Department, 
entertained with several harp selec­
tions.
FRAT. DORM. TEAMS
(Continued from Page Two) 
most of their games easily. It was 
a different story in the American 
‘ League, however, with the Beta 
Sigma Rlio’s, the Kappa Sigma’s, 
and the S. A. E.’s fighting it out. 
The Beta Sigma Rlio’s emerged 
from the mccle with their record 
free from defeats and were crown* 
cd champions in their league. In 
the National League, the spotlight 
was held by the Phi Kappa’s and 
ilie Pi K A’s, both of whom had 
little trouble in downing all oppo­
sition. Each team had won all
their games up to the last one,
when the two leaders met. The
Phi Kappa's fought their way to a
victory; consequently they were
the final leaders in the National 
Circuit.
National League 
Phi Kappa _________________ 22
Sigma Nu __________________ 18
Delta Tati Delta_____________ 21
Tlieta Xi ____________»______ 15'
Welch Hall ___-........................ 26
Nu Delta Alpha 
S. P. E. ................
American League
Beta Sigma Rho ____________
Scobcl ______*_______________
Kappa Sigma ------------------------
Henderson Hall ____________
Della Phi Delta-------u_______
McGill Hall ________________
Scobcll I-Iail _______________
McGill Hall _________________
S. A. E. ________________
Lam da Chi ________________
Federal LeagueBeta Tlieta Pi ______________
Phi Psi____________________
Phi Sigma Kappa __________
THE NEED OF AN
ACTIVITIES BUILDING
(Continued from Page Three) 
The Night Student Council is now 
working on a plan whereby the nighl 
students will be solicited for contri­
butions to this worthy cause. We 
know that you will support any plan 
that the Council will adopt and with 
your assistance and co-operation a 
very large representative showing 
will be made by the night students 
for the honor of Carnegie.
From the Fence j
In the future, this column, due 
to direct, orders from Mr. Lippcrt, 
will offer advice to weary and shop­
worn souls whose problems of 
heart are too much to, solve. The 
editor has'ordered us to, keep your«, 
most intimate thoughts a secret, so 
we shall write them in this column 
which no one ever reads. Just last 
week, the editor handed us the fol­
lowing letter—the first of many, 
\vc hope, -and we'll endeavor-to do 
our best to prescribe’a sure curc 
for your hcartachcs, large and 
small.
Dear Mr. From-the-Fcnce: I am 
rather perplexed, dear friend, not 
from anything I’ve done myself, 
but because certain unavoidable cir­
cumstances have made life rather 
embarrassing for me. Pardon my 
seeming egotism, Mr. Fence, but if 
I do say it myself, I'm rather good 
looking. Nature has endowed me 
with a wonderful profile, and scv-j 
cral -0,f my friends have told me 
that I am a veritable Greek god/ 
ahd they arc at a loss to under-, 
stand why I haven’t gone on the 
stage.
. Now my trouble is this. Due to 
my good looks, I am very popular 
with Carncigc women, not because 
I want to- be, but nevertheless, I 
am. One little freshman lassie 
only recently went so far as to 
ask me why I hadn’t had a camco 
made of myself. If I had my jvay, 
I’d have nothing to do with any 
of them, but how am I to help 
myself? My own thoughts and 
amorous feelings guide me in the 
general direction of little Wash­
ington, and, due to these circum­
stances, the weather down there 
has become decidedly frigid. What 
can I do to change things? Maybe 
you haven’t guessed it, but I’m a 
Commercial Engineer and a Dragorl, 
a Dragon in name, but not in na­
ture. Thank you for 3'our informa­
tion, and ' I hope you will permit 
me to write again.,
Distressingly yours, • 
Dodo Wright.
Dear Dodo: Your case is cer­
tainly perplexing, but the fact that 
you arc a Commercial and a Dragon 
may help you. Why don’t you 
rally your noble Dragons around 
you, and ask for their advice? 
From what I’ve heard, they arc 
very adept at working their way 
out of situations. And Mr. Ash- 
well, according to his fraternity 
brothers, can certainly handle him­
self when ladies arc involved. The 
Senior Commercial should be able 
to aid and abet you, too. Send 
little Pat Murphy, Russ Kambach, 
or Emery Lutch after these girls 
who pester you. They’ll handle 
them. If you do these things, 
there is no doubt but that things 
will bccomc fair and warmer in the 
vicinity of little Washington. Sure­
ly you may write again, the sooner 
the better. 1 hope I’ve helped you.
Sincerely yours,
F. T. Fence.
Any of the rest of you readers 
with problems of a similar nature 
should drop us a line. We may 
be able to help you in the same 
way we have helped the Dodo.
COACH HOOVER CALLS
(Continued from Page One) 
Workouts arc being held in the 
gym, until the weather man proves 
more helpful. In a Tew weeks the 
courts will be in shape, and then 
intensive work will begin. The 
candidate’s attention is called to the fact that, since the practice 
period is short, attention will be 
given to those who can step right 
in and play the game, in order that 
the best team will be formed. 
Manager Pfouts takes great plcas-
For Your Next Dance— 
Jerry McGeorge and His
CARNEGIANS
For Rates, Phone Schenlcy 1490
Friendly Co-operation
The co-operation of a 
great banking institution is 
available to the college stu­
dent of • modest income as 
well as to great corpora­
tions. You’ll fmd at the 
Mellon National Bank a 
friendly atmosphere of in­
terest and good will and-a readiness on the part of the officers to help you with any 
of your financial problems, regardless of the size of your account.
Mellon National Bank.
putih. Pa.
A Good Place for Tcch Men
Cicero Barber Shop
Oakland’s Largest & Finest
UNIVERSITY
RESTAURANT
Nezuty Equipped. Up-to-date cooking 
4605 Forbes Street, Near Craig
TREAT YOURSELF TO THE BEST
Rent a Tuxedo Suit and 
Accessories From Us
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
ATLANTIC 9395
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Night Phone
LAFAYETTE 4791-K
Enter—A New Artist
B. IDEN PAYNE
(Continued from Pace One) 
bccausc of this that the play is 
of such light characlcr. It was 
later revised for production in the 
theater.
The tickets for the opening per­
formance are to be distributed en­
tirely on campus. There will be a 
student matinee on Wednesday', 
April 16, the day before the Easter 
recess.
The cast is as follows: King, 
Jack Woolcy; Bcrownc, George 
Phelps; Longaville, Ralph Shaw, 
McClellan Shinn; Dumaine, Dale 
Phalcn, Richard Burrell; Boyet,' 
Burtt McICcc; Mcrcadc, George 
Hildebrand, David Grey, Jr.; Ar- 
mado, William Johns; Holofernc's, 
Arne Bocson; Sir Nathaniel, John 
Miller; Dull, Clayton Thompson; 
Costard, Leo Daschbach, Arthur 
Sprcnkle; Forester, Donn Bonhoff, 
George Hildebrand; Moth, Matilda 
Bodycombc, Freda Cazcn; Princess, 
Sally Franklin, Isobcl Ycal-y; Ros­
aline, Trcssie McCann, . Olivia 
Kelly; Maria, Gladys Abbaticchio. 
Helen Tenney; Katherine, Irene 
Price, Kathryn Scybold; Jaqucttc, 
Pauline BauenSmith, Helen Jacobs.
lire in informing the freshmen as­
pirants for the managerial job that 
they* must report for constructive 
duties 1 about the tennis courts 
every afternoon from now on. It 
seems that the managers arc going 
in for an intensive coursc iu fenc­
ing, that kind which is taught with 
an abundance of wire, poles and a 
hammer.
C. F. ACKENHEIL
(Continued -from Page One) 
orary and besides her work on 
Puppet, she is affiliated with the 
Tartan, Thistle, and Tri-Publications.
H. A. Collins was elected to the 
position of Exchange Editor. Mr. 
Collins is also wrorking towards 
Senior Editor of the Thistle and 
was on the Swimming Squad last 
season. He is a member of the 
Delta Upsilon social fraternity.
A. H. Scott was elected to the 
position of Advertising Manager. 
The long list of advertisements he 
had secured for Puppet this year 
insured him of the office. Mr. 
Scott is a member of the Phi Kap­
pa Psi social fraternity/
John “Gibby” Smith . is to be 
Circulation Manager, for the next 
year. Hp , is Fraternity Editor of 
the Thistle and a member of the 
Sigma Nu social fraternity.
E. E. McDonald .was rc-clcctcd 
Night Circulation Manager. As re- 
elections arc few, (his is quite an 
honor.
The new staff has already begun 
work on the last two issues of the 
year. They promise some radical 
changcs for the better in both the 
magazine and its policy towards 
the school.
First Church of Chrisl
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST.. PITTSBURGHSUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. MWednesday evening services 8 to 9
Start Cleaning Up For Spring
Send Your Suits or Dresses to
Forbes Cleaning & Tailoring Co.
4611 FORBES STREET 
The Place IVhcrc Scrviccupud Satisfaction is Guaranteed 
Chas Kuntz, Prop. MAflower 9728
She gives you
THE CHANTS 
OF A 
LIFETIME . .
Lee Morse now offers yon two of the season’s swellcst melodies on 
her latest Columbia record.
The first—hit of a talkie and of every dance floor—Lee croons 
so charmingly that it’s downright disturbing. The second is distinctly 
indigo, and her mellow warbling gives you the full, nutty flavoi of 
its completely goofy lyric.
Hear this corking coupling today—nnd these other entertaining 
discs, too . . .
Record No. 2136-D, 10-inc/i, 75c \
I'm jVOOVL.XI You! (from Motion ) pocats
Lee Morse and Her Blue 
Grass Boya
Picture “It’s n Great Life”)
,No.2,N No 6.X CNV Dance Around iu Your Bones)
Record No. 2I20-D. 10-mc/i, 75c
Imagine / Fox Trots .
AX o ROEG SXT UVVXOGFF 2.IHYP WillOsborncandllis Orchestra
Record No. 2137-D, 10-mc/i, 75c 
Me And the Girl Next Door ^ Vocals
BDG1GX9NE.3Y0 6oYE3To0 2.IWYEddie 'Walters
Columbia Takethhw R© c orcls
Viva-'tonal Recording * The Records without Scratch
ELECTION OF SENATE 
(Continued from Page One) 
Petitions for all class' offices in 
all schools will be accepted at‘ the 
present time and the election-will 
be held soon.
A recent endowment tb the Uni 
vcrsity of London provides for a 
course in American ¡History.
The old staff has prepared i 
Spring Number as their last crown­
ing success, which will knock your 
eye out. This number will be 
placed on sale next Tuesday. - Get 
a spring number of tiie Puppet and 
laugh away your spring fever.
ENGINEERS GIVEN
(Continued from Page One)
54 degrees North, and is near the 
line of the Trans-Siberian Railroad
The plant is to 'be about the 
size of the Gary, Ind., plant of the 
United States Steel Company, which 
is the largest in the world. One 
scclion is to be ready for • opera­
tion in 1932 and the complete plant 
at the end of 1933.
The living conditions, we. are 
told, will be almost as good as 
could be found in our cities here, 
50 far as housing is concerned. The 
houses arc new, modern, multiple 
stores , of concrete. The town is 
just being built. There is not 
a city within 100 miles of the site 
and the location is approximately 
on a parallel with a point about 
150 miles north of Winnipeg, Mana- 
toba, with a climate which is similar 
—rather long ' cold winters and 
warm summers with days 18 to 20 
hours long.
No contracts will be made, but, 
we arc only sending men whom 
we believe will stay for the great­
est part of a period.
The remuneration will be on 
what the men would earn here. It 
is our purpose to have the net 
return to the men who go, ap­
proximately what their gross re­
ceipts would be here and an 
arrangement to .that ¿:nd will be 
made, although the details must 
be discussed personally Avith each' 
man.
We" undertake the transportation 
of the men to Russia and their re­
turn whether they stay for the 
full period, or through necessity, 
must return earlier. .
The writer will interview the 
men interested on this, within two 
weeks, but should have clear drafts
of their experience in his - hands,
before that time.
Yours Very truly,
(Signed) Paul E. Ryan.
Mr. Beatty or Mr. Ryan will be 
glad to supply additional informa­
tion.
EDUCATIONAL GROUP 
(Contii ucd from Page One) 
ings will be held throughout the 
entire confcrcncc.
Teacher training students on our 
campus in fields of Industrial Edu­
cation, Music, Fine Arts, Secretarial
INDUSTRIAL MOTION
(Continued from Page One) with the modernization of the farm 
home. The latter picture was ob­
tained from the Atlas Educational 
Film Company and deals with the 
modernization of the city home.
“From Mine to Consumer,” to be 
given on April 16, is issued by the 
American Brass Company, and gives 
all the steps in the' production of 
copper and brass. “The Heat 
Thief” on April 16 and “Hoffman 
Controlled Heat” on April 23, 
were made up by the Hoffman 
Specialty Company and demon­
strate the uses of steam as a 
heating dement.
“Oxygen, the Wonder Worker,” 
shows how oxygen is used to get 
intense heat for local application. 
It is issued by the Air Reduction 
Sales Company and is scheduled 
for April 23.
“Arteries of Industry,” which is 
set for April 30, issued by the 
National Tube Company, shows the 
uses of pipe lines in industry. For 
the same date the “History of 
Sanitation” has been secured. This 
picture was made by the Bridge­
port Brass Company and it traccs 
sanitation from early times until 
the present.
The two films for May 7 are. 
“'rhe Story of Asbestos” and 
“Manufacturing Enamel Ware.” 
The first picture shows the min­
ing and fabrication of asbestos and 
products. The latter film is issued 
>by the Standard Sanitary Manufac­
turing* Company and portrays the 
manufacture and enameling of 
plumbing fixtures.
“Saving Coal at Home” is schcd-' 
tiled for May 14 and is issued by 
the United States Bureau of Mines. 
Its theme is economical coal con­
sumption in the home. ' For the 
same date there is “The War on 
General Corrosion,” which has been 
filmed by the Duriron Company.
“The Manufacturing of Sheet 
Copper,” which has been secured 
from the American Brass Company, 
will also be exhibited, but the 
date is as yet unscheduled.
Studies, Home Economics and 
Mathematics have been invited to 
attend these- confcrcncc meetings 
where there will be an opportunity 
to hear outstanding speakers in 
their respective fields.
PHOTOGRAPHS
Special Offer to Students 8x10 Portrait in Easel Frame, 
$2.95.Actual $10.00 Value.25% Discount on Other Orders. 
FRANK TOTINO STUDIO 
3710 FORBES ST., OAKLAND
FOURTH CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST'
X PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 
oXXVEXQGF o
Lecture On Christian Science
BY
MISS LUCIA C. COULSON, C. S., OF LONDON, ENGLAND
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF LECTURESHIP OF THE MOTHER CHURCH, 
THE FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST, IN BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1930
AT' 8:15 P. M.
IN CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL, FORBES STREET
SCHENLEY PARK
THE PUBLIC IS CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND
The Corner Stone of Industry
Friction or anti-friction is the differ­
ence between building upon a sand 
foundation or upon a sound foundation 
...“Timken Bearing Equipped.”
Industry either lays itself wide open 
to Waste and pays a heavy friction-tax 
... or sets up a safeguard and reaps the 
resulting profits.
The kind of anti-friction protection is 
important... to select the bearing that 
carries all burdens, whether the load is 
all radial, all thrust, or both in any 
combination ... and student engineers 
will do well to remember that full pro­
tection is based squarely upon Timken 
tapered construction, Timken POSI­
TIVELY ALIGNED ROLLS and Timken- 
made steel.
This group of exclusive Timken ad­
vantages puts production on a modern 
basis. Machine life becomes self-per- 
'petuating. Power loss, lubricant and 
maintenance costs lose their signifi­
cance and dwindle to decimals.
•In lathe spindles or rolling mills; in 
steam shovels or mine cars or railroad 
trains—a wave of replacement surges 
over the nation—a protest against 
Waste—headed by the national symbol 
and safeguard—“Timken Bearing 
Equipped,” the Corner Stone of 
Industry.
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING COMPANY, CANTON, OHIO
fiMKlMSÄEARINeS
