MU Core:
ay STEPHEN VOLAN
tartan Editor-in-Chief
1 The long-anticipated revision of 
Carnegie-Mellon University’s academic 
[tructure is fast becoming a reality.
| pr0f W. Andrew Achenbaum, Associate 
Lee-President for Academic Affairs, has 
leased a thirty page document, entitled 
(The University-wide Core Curriculum,” 
Lhich he will present to the Student Senate 
its meeting tonight in the Wherrett
Achenbaum presents strategy 
for generaI academic reform
The document has already been released 
in earlier versions to the Board of Trustees, 
all Deans and department heads, high-level 
administrators and University Professors, 
and will be presented to Faculty Senate on 
Thursday.
To document describes in deatail the pro­
posed “general educational reform” which, 
if accupted by the CMU community, would 
go into effect for students entering the 
University in August. The document also
the manner in which it would be im­
plemented, and the key role of the Univer­
sity’s present educational infrastructure in 
the Core program’s establishment.
In a statement to The Tartan made last 
Thursday, Professor Achenbaum emphasiz­
ed that a policy change with the magnitude 
of the proposed Core must be discussed and 
accepted at CMU. “There will be no value 
in implementing a University Core unless it 
has the backing of the students, the faculty 
and key administrators [at CMU],” said
Achenbaum. “At this point, it is critical that 
we get input from all segments of this com­
munity.” He also stressed that students 
presently attending CMU would not 
necessarily be affected by the Core program.
If accepted in its present form, all 
students regardless of their majors, would 
be required under this proposal to pursue 
a carefully-monitored course of study.
The most important feature of this pro­
posed sequence, according to Professor 
continued on page 3
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 17, February 19, 1985.
tudents turn out for Pub Preview
KAREN GRAY
Yrtan News Editor
[Over 100 students gathered last Friday to 
[ink punch, eat cheese, and fill out opinion 
rms at the Pub Preview.
(The event, which took place in Skibo's 
jighlander Room, kicked off Pub Commit- 
efforts to create a student lounge there.
| Pub Committee member Seth Kaplan 
[scribed the Preview as “a very good team 
fort. He added that Pub Committee 
pmber and Theta Xi brother Bob Fishel 
elped out a lot” by arranging for the use 
[Theta Xi Fraternity’s kitchen for snack 
eparation.
Phi O members popped corn for the 
kdents, and according to A Phi O presi­
lt Nick Giamaris, provided some “man- 
ver” to set up facilities earlier in the 
lernoon.
t one point during the event, Giamaris 
d on a chair and thanked students for 
ir attendance, asking them to support
r student space.”
General Campus and Information Com- 
ttee chairman Peter Cohen is optimistic 
l^t the Pubs future, but
problems: “The Pub will work out, but if 
people want to drink (alcohol), they won’t 
be able to come here.”
Cohen cited fraternity and Student Senate 
alcohol related incidents as one factor block­
ing the Pub’s acquisition of a liquor license. 
“Right now there appears to be no way to 
get alcohol.”
Kaplan, however disagreed: “Were not go­
ing to have a liquor license this semester, but 
the Pub Committee is definitely hopeful that 
we’ll have a non-hard liquor license by 
semester. We’ll be able to serve beer 
wine.”
Cohen added that the dimensions of the 
Highlander Room might cause some pro­
blems. However, the room’s high ceiling may 
allow for the installation of a second floor 
and “a place to relax.”
Students expressed enthusiasm for pub 
plans as they jotted down their likes 
dislikes on the “Highlander Pub Survey.” The 
survey consistecd of multiple choice and fill- 
in questions on such topics as food, at­
mosphere and entertainment.
“[The pub] is necessary,” remarked
In This Issue:
News
Pro-lifers active......................page 2
Core excerpts........................page 3
Features
Sound explored....................page 5
Cheap survival.......................page 7
Entertainment
Gee to perform..................page 11
Grammy picks.....................page 12
Sports
Basketball wins...................page 15
IM report.............................page 18
Editorial
Campus Pub........................page 20
photo by Mike PilewskiNote:
Due to next week’s mid-semester holi-aySTE tu ucAi rra PTPTHaNTPNVOP uu«
¦ Pub Committee provided free refreshments for those attending the pre-grand opening preview Friday. Some students help day. The Tartan will not publish again 
elves to i___ • < .v _iM. __it pvent (above). until March 5.to snacks (above right), while others socialize at the event (above).

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
CMU Pro-life group active locally
By JOE MURPHY
Special to The Tartan
The Carnegie-Mellon University Associa­
tion for Life (AFL) members have become 
active in various projects throughout 
Pittsburgh.
Six members went through a month and 
a half of training in communication skills 
and techinical procedures to become 
volunteer counselors for Lifeline of 
Southwest Pennsylvania. Lifeline offers alter­
natives to abortion for> pregnant women in 
crisis situations.
Said Wayne Mesard, one such volunteer, 
“1 think Lifeline is the b est thing CMU-AFL 
has ever gotten into. It’s just such a positive 
thing. Rather than saying, ‘Hey, you! Your 
baby’s still alive. Deal with it,’ Lifeline helps 
them to do just that. Rather than sending 
letters to congressmen’s wastebaskets, 
Lifeline is actually saving lives. To me that’s 
more important than any rally.”
Recently, AFL brought in Executive 
Director of Pennsylvanians for Human Life 
Cecile Heckler, who addressed an audience 
of about 50 people on “the Basics of Abor­
tion.” AFL President Felicia Thibeault ex­
plained, “We wanted to increase campus 
awareness aobut the abortion issue, and pro­
mote discussion among the student body. We 
feel the evening was a success; a number of 
people stayed after the program and shared 
their opinions.” Speakers are planned for 
March and April as well.
AFL members are presently working with 
the Red Cross to help elderly shut-ins by do­
ing maintenance work and offering much 
appreciated companionship.
Three students from AFL and three Pitt 
Students for Life painted the inside of an 
elderly couple’s house on Feb. 2. A similar 
trip is scheduled for March 2.
In the coming months the group will stay 
busy with current projects.
Members will volunteer to work as area’s needy.
babysitters and tutors at Mom’s House, a free 
day-care center for young mothers who are 
finishing their education.
In March, the AFL will be working at the 
Jubilee Kitchen, providing hot meals for the
Anyone who is interested in joining ^ I 
Carnegie-Mellon University Association f0r 
Life or in helping with any of the project5 
can contact Felicia at x4827 or Joe at x4log |
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE 
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PM CALCULUS PH 225B
PRE, I, II, III 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY
PH 226B 
PH 226C
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING
Sponsored by Student 
Counseling and Student Development 
Center.
PH 125B 
WeH 5415
Affairs and
Í'
photo by Dina Duhll
Doherty Hall’s C-basement has been plagued by crumbling plaster, peeling paint, j 
and overall deterioration in recent weeks.
ROTC offers full tuition scholarships to students
At least two full tuition scholarships (one 
to a freshman and the other to a sophomore) 
are available to CMU students from the Air 
Force ROTC detachment here. Students do 
not have to be currently enrolled in ROTC.
The scholarships are available to students 
pursuing a technical degree in engineering 
(electrical, computer, mechanical, or civil), 
mathematics, or physics. Minumum
and 2.1
Exciting and Challenging Career Opportunities
Master of Business Administration
A small, highly selective MBA program has 
been designed by The Ohio State University 
to provide professional management 
education to studentrwith nonbusiness 
academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time 
program
• facilitates a high level of student and
faculty-student interaction
• has no prerequisite course work
• is especially attractive to students with
liberal arts, scientific, and other 
nonbusiness backgrounds
• is built upon a tightly integrated study of
foundation management tools and 
concepts
• offers the opportunity to concentrate in one
or two management fields through 
elective course work
• is offered by one of the top 25 schools of
management in the country and is 
accredited by the American Assembly of 
Collegiate Schools of Business
Last year's graduates were very successful in 
finding career opportunities. Examples of 
positions they selected include the following:
• assistant to the chief executive officer.
Midland Mutual Life
• field marketing manager. Ford Motor
Company
• management trainee with an
international assignment. Chase 
Manhattan Bank
• assistant product manager, Pillsbury
• financial analyst, Hewlett Packard
• inventory control manager, IBM Corporation
• account executive, Merrill Lynch
• consultant. Price Waterhouse
• management trainee with an international
assignment, Procter and Gamble 
For a brochure describing this program and 
application information, please 
contact:
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210*1399 
614-422-8511
The Ohio State University
cumalative point averages for scholarsh 
consideration are 2.8 for freshmen 
for sophomores.
In addition to receiving full tuition fort 
two or three remaining years, student 
receive reimbursements for books am 
laboratory fees plus a $100 per month I 
free allowance while school is in session !
Normally, all scholarship selections; 
made at Air Force ROTC Headquarters ii 
Alabma. This year, however, some scholaij 
ships can be awarded by the head of a 
Lorce ROTC at each university.
“I have the authority to award scholarl 
ships to the two best qualified applicants J 
said Lt. Colonel William L. Eubank, CM 
Professor of. Aerospace Studies. “In fad 
because of the quality of CMU students,| 
can probably obtain more than two scholaf 
ships. I encourage qualified students ton 
vestigate what Air Force ROTC and the. 
Force have to offer in the way of exciunj 
challenging career opportunities.’
Students will be notified of scholars!» 
selection in May. No military obligation^ 
incurred until classes begin for the Fall teit 
Interestd students should contact Capt^ 
Michael Lacroix at Ext. 8747 or visit us^ 
Room 15 in Porter Hall.
THE NATIONAL CENTER 
FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING 
PREPARATION COURSES
For: Carnegie Mellon
LSAMBg
GMATffiS
SAT
GRt
5/4 EXAM: Cl««** iln 3/2
6/8 EXAM: Classe* 
begin 5/16
For i free brochure call Toll Free:^ 800-222-TEST
The National Center tor Educational Testini 
3414 Piachfree Rd. HE Suite 526Atlanta. 6A 30326
take the next course FREE

---------------------------------------------------

February 19, 1985—The Tartan—Page 3
The Core: a rationale for reformCMU TV show 
looks for 
student input
y AMY LIPKE
ortan Staffwriter
Dimensions 85, a television talk show pro- 
uced by the Public Relations Department, 
looking for student input.
The show airs weekly on Pittsburgh 
telecommunications, a local cable station, 
overing a wide range of topics. Dimensions 
) explores issues involving C-MU and of in- 
erest to the general public.
Hosted by Keith Moore of Public Rela- 
ions Department, the show begins with a 
ven minute “studio segment” in which 
'oore interviews one or two guests. A taped 
terview follows, usually covering a related 
ue or “twist” on the main issue.
Sheila Quinlan, formerly of KDKA TV, 
roduces the thirty-minute show: “What this 
rted out as was an experiment, with black 
nd white came as from the Audio Visual 
partment.”
She continued. “We’ve got a lot of options 
before I came here they didn’t have a 
rson producing it. . . that’s part of what 
ade it experimental.”
Public Relations Head Don Hale added, 
"\Ve'd like to grow,” but commented that 
mimensions 85 is “limited by resources, 
uipment, and money, in comparison to 
hat some schools can do.”
Topics of recent shows include robotics, 
)llegiate athletics, “What Makes a Good 
lay,” “Socil History and the Elderly,” and 
Lvolving Roles of Womean,” with Mrs. 
largaret Cyert and GSIA Dean Elizabeth 
uley.
When asked why Dimensions 85 is virtu al- 
¦unknown among the student population, 
Huinlan responded that while “the PR. is 
wily good here,” CMU is used to relying on 
le printed media for publicity.
¦“If we had a television department, it 
¦mid be a whole different story. . . people’s 
¦nds would be attuned to that. They’re us- 
I to promoting it in print.”
LMs. Quinlan is optimistic about the future
¦ the show and full of ideas for improve- 
Bnt, including covering two or three topics 
¦rshow. She also wants to get students in- 
¦ved both before and behind the cameras.
¦ I really would like students that have
jnes, she urged, adding that she is also
¦erested in “starting a group of students,
¦naps a club, who wuld be involved in pro­
jection.”
Ttudents interested in appearing on the 
w or helping with production should con- 
j Me Fisher at x2900. Dimensions 85, 
B med up Quinlan, “gives these people 
are doing interesting things. . . a chance 
fay 11 in front of the camera.”
c ONE-STOP
cOcNE-STPN „Xoü
Sales & Servicing
A1he 
1lohe 
eAnonge 
lg-tiAnoe 
c pPdPrvy EQUIPMENT 
I ,NiDUSTRIAL sfTPCMsUr
CALL 
(412)621-0786 
331 S. Bouquet Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Reprinted below are the first six pages of 
The University Core Curriculum: A Ra­
tionale and Stategy for CMU’s General 
Education Reform, ” by Professor W. An­
drew Ac henbaum, Associate Vice-President 
for Academic Affairs. Other excerpts from 
this document will be printed in future 
issues.
Why a University-Wide Core at CMU? 
Why now?
In recent years, colleges and universities 
across the nation have been evaluating their 
undergraduate curricula in an effort to 
redefine what it means to be an “educated” 
person in America today. Faculty and ad­
ministrators have identified a range of issues 
and sought to remedy deficiencies in their 
current rules in divergent ways. Harvard 
University attracted considerable media at­
tention, for instance, when it launched a 
new general education program that* re­
quires undergraduates to select courses in 
nine distribution areas from an approved list 
of several hundred options. This tack hard­
ly exudes the reflective confidence formula 
for training America’s elite to cope with the 
nation’s awsome postwar responsibilities. It 
nonetheless affirms the current opinion of 
the Harvard faculty that the leaders of the
Core to 
reform CMU 
academics
continued from page 1
Achenbaum, is that it is by no means com­
plete. “I am grateful for the interest which 
the student body has shown in the develop­
ment of the Core,” Achenbaum noted. He 
went on to say that he hopes the interest will 
last at least through the week of March 4th, 
when undergraduates will be asked to fill out 
a questionnaire in which they express their 
views on the ideal core.
The first six pages of the document be­
ing released this week, which describes the 
rationale for the new Core curriculum, is 
reproduced above. In the March 5th 
issue of The Tartan, we will give further in­
formation on the student questionnaire, 
designed by the student advisory group to 
Prof. Achenbaum and underwritten by Stu­
dent Senate.
twenty-first century need more exposure to 
the variety of intellectual problems than a 
free-elective system permits. Brown Univer­
sity, in contrast, has no general education 
requirements; officials claim that most of 
their undergraduates create a balanced 
course of study anyway. Stanford University 
has resorted to a set of “Western Culture” re­
quirements after an 11-year lapse. To com­
pensate for biases in its current curriculum, 
Mount Holyoke College now insists that 
every student take at least one course deal­
ing with either third-world countries or 
minorities in the United States. Union Col­
lege in Schenectady has established a 
“Liberal learning program that emphasizes 
the impact of technology on advanced- 
industrial societies. Alverno College in 
Milwaukee has revamped its curriculum 
around five pragmatic “competencies,” such 
as the ability to communicate and ap­
preciate the arts. The State University of 
New York at Stony Brook has established a 
separate learning center that invites 
undergraduates to take interdisciplinary 
courses which build on the research interests 
of its faculty.
That so many different, types of institu­
tions are rethinking their educational goals
at this juncture is no historical coincidence. 
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, many 
faculties abandoned any uniform set of cur­
ricular requirements. Students were en­
couraged to do their own thing.” Now, an in­
creasing number of educators argue that 
such freedom often has confounded efforts 
to instill in their student the sense that any 
sort of coherent intellectual bonds can ex­
ist in a “modern” academic community: to­
day’s “pluraversity” appears to have little in 
common with yesterday’s collegium. As a 
result, the problem of synthesizing and in­
tegrating knowledge and skills to enable 
students to survive in a rapidly changing and 
segmented society has emerged as a major 
educational priority. “Each of the periodic 
re-examinations of general education this 
century,” notes Ernest L. Boyer, head of the 
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement 
of Teaching, “has come at a time when peo­
ple were worried about a society that ap­
peared to be losing cohesion, of splintering 
into countless individual atoms, each flying 
off in its own direction, each pursuing its 
own selfish ends.” Boyer’s interpretation of 
recent trends in higher education is in­
sightful, but it does not tell the whole story.
continued on page 9
Join the New Exciting Innovating
Secretarial Travel Club*
Earn a FREE Vacation While You Are Working
*No Membership Fee 
For Information Call
3955 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
University Travel Service, Inc.
Nationwide USA:Pennsylvania:Pittsburgh:
(800) 245-6203 (800) 242-1742 (412) 621-3492 Ext. 7577
,\\0’
„X oü pS< \?w r a*'6
5^)0' Contact Capt Michael Lacroix, 578-8747PH-15
AIR FORCE
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
\bu ve earned it ! 
...Show it.
available now at
SAVINGS
Minutes of the Student Senate, February 12, 1985.
The meeting was called to order at 7:03.
Present:
Bett, Bianco, Cohen, Cramer, DeMelio, Denburg, 
Goldstein, Hynes, Ickes, Jagerski (alternate), King, 
CcCormick, Miller, Mukherjee, Novak, Salley, Soller, 
Taylor, Weller, Dean Walter, Garrity, Brooks, Kissner, 
Hollibaugh 
Absent:
Bach (excused), Chu, DeBroff, Dorsey, Harrison (ex­
cused), Nichols, Piscitello, Simmons
Audience Participation:
Seth Kaplan announced Friday’s party in the 
Highlander Room at 4:00 and requested assistance in 
setting this up Thursday night at Theta Xi.
Dr. Stem addressed the Senate about the impact of the 
intellectual property policy —aspects of the proposed 
policy were reviewed, particularly with regard to its im­
pact on students.
First, the notion of “substantial use” was defined — a stu­
dent exceeds this limit if he has used university facilities
(labs, computers) at a cost in excess of $5000 if he had 
used nonuniversity facilities (open market prices). In 
the case of the University Computation Center, this is 
easily amassed as tallies are taken every time a student 
logs in.
Whenever sponsorship is involved in the students 
research, the first entity that has access to the resul­
tant product is the sponsor —CMU does not have the 
right to it unless that has been granted by the sponsor. 
If the work a student is doing is sponsored, the general 
default arrangement is that the university receives 50% 
of its net proceeds. If there is no sponsorship agreement, 
then the creator has first rights, with CMU claiming 
right to 15% . In the case of software, the university 
is allowed to utilize it internally, but not sell it — a good 
example of this is the case with SCRIBE. In either case, 
if the university fails to pursue this arrangement, the 
initiative for marketting can fall to either party (the 
creator or the university).
Dr. Stem fielded questions from Senate—one concerned 
a misunderstanding about software. Software is 
copyrightable but not patentable, but the university can
CMC BTCC2/ CAT3LC
THURSDAYS =
anytime 12:00 to 2:00 
in Salads Plus 
EVERYONE WELCOME
n-uy jn?im
Funded by Activities
apply whatever regulations it wishes concerning 
ownership.
In the case of the amassing of substantial use without 
sponsorship, CMU gets a share of the net profits.
Situations at other schools were compared. For exam­
ple, RPI has copied our policy “word for word.” If a 
project at MIT is sponsored, the uinversity then gets 
rights to it—if unsponsored but substantial use is amass 
ed, MIT gets a share. Pitt has no special policy for 
students — administration doesn’t seem to feel the 
students will create much. At Brown, sponsors receive 
royalty-free use of the product.
The university believes this policy is reasonable, Dr. Stem 
concludes, because “many different parties. . . bring to 
fruition a successful product.” The creator is the greatest 
party and thus gets the greatest share (50%). Develop­
ment and marketing contribute a substantial amount 
of cost — thus if the product is self-marketed the creator 
gets 85% of the net profits. In the case of the substan­
tial use threshold, it is clear that the university has con­
tributed something valuable to the project (namely, 
S5000). The license to use is then a “way of enabling 
the university to participate in the proceeds.”
Jeff Soller raised the question of the difference between 
external and internal sponsorship. The university must 
declare itself to be the sponsor—it must notify the poten­
tial creator in advance, and specify what it will claim. 
Dr. Stem declared that the student “always [has] the 
right to know where he stands on a given project”—it 
may be the students responsibility to find out.
Michael Bett asked if the creator, after exceeding the 
S5000 limit, could pay the university the difference. The 
university, according to Dr. Stern, is obligated rr> toU» •* 
President:
Anyone interested in joining the committee that will 
plan commencement should get involved.
The Bremrner House will not be used as the campus 
pub —it can only hold 25-40 people and the basement 
leaks. It is now up to the pub committee to find other
used for it.
Chairman:
Faculty Senate endorsed our petition to move registra­
tion back two weeks but as was discussed last week, it’s 
too late.
Treasurer:
There will be a Senate social hour and dinner at GuUjj 
ty’s on March 1st to be paid for by each senator 
A letter has been sent to organization leaders remit, 
ding them of the 15% rule. In the process, it WjJ 
discovered that Senated does not have an updated ljg 
of these leaders.
An assistant treasurer is needed, and two have bee: 
nominated: Todd Goldman and Karen Wilson 
The Radio Club has finally contacted us again-Us 
mess.” We need to know whether they will participat 
in buggy. A list of club members was not available and 
they have collected no dues and held no meetings 
they want their status to be changed to that of a se, 
vice organization. David Goldstein pointed out that the 
only reason they are still in existence is because of bu^ 
but they have racked up a $250-300 phone bill with no 
funds to pay it, and have threatened to pull out of 
to ‘teach Senate a lesson.” It was concluded that thev 
may be “the biggest group of screw-ups.”
Rules:
The committee met today with Computer Professionals 
for Social Responsibility, an organization that discuss« 
the social implications of computers.
Vote: to recognize CPSR as a nonfunded organization 
The vote passes.
The Arnold Air Society, a branch of AFROTC, attended 
the committee meeting as well.
Acedemic Affairs:
A copy of the new tentative 1985-86 schedule is inti* 
folders. Commencement will be the second Mondays 
May under this new schedule, and Dec. 6th will c’ 
oeading Day, with finals Dec. 9-16. Spring Re 
Days will be April 30 to May 1st and finals May 2nd 
and 3rd, then the 5th through 8th. This meansthert 
are Saturday finals.
Tamal Mukherjee suggested cutting a day of class, whilt 
Jeff Soller suggested cutting one spring Reading Da? 
Peter Cohen, however, would rather see two reading 
days and a Saturday final.
Vote: in favor of two reading days. The vote is nail
The meeting was adjourned at 8:35.
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION 1985
CAMP/CAMPUS 
COUNSELORS
DATF- Feb- 20 & 21 TIME: 10:00-4:00
PLACE:_________________________HERFF JONESDiviaion oi Carnation Company
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
RETURN APPLICATIONS TO DESK 
BY MARCH 1, 1985

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
ponsensus on Campus Security positive
Community perceives crime as minor issue
HELENE NEWBERG
r<lrtan Skiff writer
. Many people around campus have heard 
L read something about the recent mug- Fgs on Forbes and on Fifth. The muggings 
LVe ^een a major reminder to many that 
rme ar°und campus does exist, 
f at( hing the news and reading the paper, 
I get word of crimes that don’t affect us. 
I People getting attacked next to our cam- 
I causes us to sit up and take note of every
I M0H Un^er every bush.I uch has been heard from and about
I njpus Security pertaining to the newly-
P °Vered potential danger lurking. The
I lan Angels have considered bringing¦ squad : rI lr> for our protection.
Many questions are raised and considered. 
Do we really want the Guardian Angels 
around? Is* crime on campus more than 
Campus Security can handle? Isnt Campus 
Security performing well enough now?
Concerning Campus Security, the general 
consensus is positive. Many people share the 
opinion that “Campus Security is here to 
protect us from the Pittsburgh Police.” Our 
security force is visible, and most everyone 
wholeheartedly puts their trust in them. 
Besides a few scattered break-ins and thefts, 
Security hasn’t had much serious to deal 
with.
Muggings in Oakland
Not very many people feel that crime on
campus is a major issue. Most events are 
isolated, and most people haven’t been af­
fected. Crime isn’t considered a serious pro­
blem here. People seem more worried at; jut 
muggings down in Oakland than theft and 
other crimes on campus.
Students not worried
Several people said that when they have 
to be out around campus late at night, 
security people are always around and visi­
ble. Dan Kovacs, a freshman, brought up 
the question of us really wanting the Guar­
dian Angels. “There doesn’t seem to be any 
need. And what if they got hurt? We’d be 
liable.”
According to an informal poll, crime isn’t
a major concern. The concensus seems to be 
that on our type of campus, we’re not over­
ly worried about rooms being broken into 
in campus dorms or being attacked late at 
night.
What concerns some students is that 
bringing up the issue of crime will instigate 
more of it. For example,the cyanide-in-the- 
Tylenol incident “inspired” several other 
poisonings. The issue seems to be a lazy 
hornet’s nest that doesn’t neet to be stirred
— no one I talked to expressed concern 
about protection on campus.
The Guardian Angels squad idea met 
with lukewarm acceptance — nobody seems 
real thrilled.
Auditory Perception
Stern examines sound processing; 
explains direction determination
Lab explores sound
Sound differentiation limited
photo by Scot Allen
Dr. Richard L. Stern
By PETER KELLY
Special to The Tartan
Our ears are constantly bombarded with 
sound. From the second our alarm clocks go 
off in the morning until we fall asleep at 
night, our ears and brains are processing 
sounds of all kinds. Even when we’re not 
consciously listening, our brains are 
monitoring the sounds around us and keep­
ing us informed. How do we make sense of 
all these sounds? Flow does our brain 
organize them so we can understand them?
Dr. Richard Stern, Associate Professor of 
Electrical and Biomedical Engineering and 
Director of CMU’s Auditory Perception 
Lab, is trying to answer just that question. 
He is studying how our brains perceive and 
organize sounds into forms we can under­
stand, and uses this knowledge in working 
with machines that can recognize speech 
sounds. - .
How sound is perceived
Stern, who came to CMU in 1977, earn­
ed his Ph. D. in electrical engineering at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His 
studies in engineering, combined with a 
talent for music, kindled an interest in elec­
tronic musical instruments, and led to his 
present interest in how sound is perceived 
by the brain.
Stern’s research is directed towards two 
main goals. First, he performs sophisticated 
hearing tests to gather data about how 
sounds are perceived by the auditory system.
measure what you can and cannot hear, 
and, from that, try to figure out why you 
hear what you hear.” Although these ex­
periments, called psychoacoustical studies, 
do provide information about what we hear, 
they don’t, by themselves, explain how we 
hear.
The second goal of Stern’s research is to 
relate the results of the psychoacoustical 
studies to the way sounds are actually pro­
cessed by the auditory system. To do this, 
he uses mathematical techniques borrowed 
from communications engineering theory to 
create mathematical models of the different 
aspects of the hearing process. For example, 
the brain’s ability to tell the difference bet­
ween two sounds is' limited by the way the 
ears present the sounds to the brain. Stern 
simulates these limitations mathematically, 
and compares the simulation with the results 
of the psychoacoustical studies. ‘-‘From these 
comparisons, we can construct reasonable 
hypotheses concerning which attributes of 
the neural auditory code are perceptually 
significant.”
Much of Stern’s research on how sound 
is perceived has to do with how we can tell 
where a sound is coming from without see­
ing its source. If a friend calls to you from 
behind, you know immediately where the 
voice is coming from and you turn towards 
the correct side. Researchers know that our 
brains use two cues to position a sound in 
friend calls to you,
say from the left side, your head casts an 
“acoustical shadow”, so those waves enter­
ing your right ear are less intense than the 
waves entering your left ear. Your brain 
notes this difference in intensity. Second, the 
waves arrive at your right ear a split-second
*7------------------------------------|W
>
later than they arrive at your left ear, and 
the brain registers this small time delay. 
These two cues, intensity difference and 
time delay, allow your brain to calculate 
where your friend is standing.
Stern trying to fill gap
Stern’s research carries the study oi these 
intensity and time cues one step further. He 
is interested in exactly how the brain uses 
the cues to generate a perceptual image of 
the location of a sound’s source. “There’s a 
big gap between the physical cues and what 
the nerves actually do to produce the image. 
It’s that gap I’m trying to fill.” Stern has 
hypothesized that, as the sound enters each 
ear, it is separated into its component fre­
quencies, and that each frequency is com­
pared with the corresponding frequency in 
the opposite ear. From these comparisons, 
collectively called a cross-correlation, a 
perceptual image is developed and we 
“know” where the sound is coming from.
Stern’s work is by no means finished. Us­
ing his powerful combination of experimen­
tal data and mathematical theory, he con­
tinues to explore how sound is translated in­
to perception, and, in the process, probes 
deeper into the mysteries of hearing.

---------------------------------------------------

NOW AVAILABLE AT 
THE CMU BOOKSTORE
dnoqo dqi fo ¡¡o udmsuo
I lamentashen (cookies) and Megilah reading on Thursday, March 7th.
Purim Party Tuesday night, March 6th at the Pitt AEPhouse
Purim discussion groups on story and customs, Wednesday nights at 8 pm at l lillel I louse, 133 Margaret Morrison Apartments
See the next Tartan for details
K4ÜMUcmUlLlfl
Page 6—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
n i nim 1* * m Agreement produces attraction;Heianonsnips: Severe initiation promotes unity
By KATHY MURTAUGH
Tartan Staffwriter
In the spirit of Valentine’s Day, expres­
sions of love and sentiment are in abundance 
at CMU. But according to experts, many 
popular beliefs about love and attraction are 
inaccurate.
"I think that initial attrac­
tion occurs between two peo­
ple who have a lot of dif­
ferences.”
One widely held theory is that opposites 
attract. “I think that initial attraction oc­
curs between two people who have a lot of 
differences,” states Wendy, an art major at 
CMU. In fact, nine out of ten students in­
terviewed share this belief. But experts 
disagree with this theory.
Opposites don’t attract
Heidler’s Theory (1958) states separate 
entities similar to one another tend to be 
perceived as a unit relationship. The causal 
relationship between similarity and attrac­
tion was studied by Newcomb (1961). He ex­
amined the development of friendship bet­
ween young men attending the University of 
Michigan and found that when given ade­
quate opportunity to become familiar with 
each other s attitudes, agreement did pro­
duce attraction.
Many students interviewed believed there 
is a tendency to like roommates or lab part­
ners more because we are assigned to these 
people. Heidler’s interbalance theory (1958) 
suggests this tendency. According to 
Heidler, relationships may be formed 
through a perception of proximity, a com­
mon fate, or a similarity among individuals. 
“I usually like partners to whom I am assign­
ed basically because I have more to talk 
about with them. We have something in 
common,” remarks Karen, a junior at 
CMU.
Initiation correlated to attraction
According to psychologists, people who 
undergo severe initiations to become
members of a group tend to increase their 
liking for the group; they appreciate the 
group and find it more attractive than per­
sons who become members without severe 
initiation.
Many fraternity members at CMU 
disagree with this hypothesis. Greg, a 
freshman pledge, states, “When a fraterni­
ty puts you through a severe initiation, you 
are more likely to hate the members.” Most
students interviewed, believe people pU! 
through severe initiations would associate 
the unpleasant experience with the 
members.
Margaret S. Clark, associate professor of I 
psychology at CMU, distinguishs between 
communal relationships, in which benefits I 
are given in the response to a need, and ex­
change relationships, where benefit is given I 
in exchange for repayment. “Members ofa 
communal relationship assume that each is 
concerned about the welfare of the other, 
Clark states. According to Clark, they have 
a positive attitude towards benefiting the 
other when a need exists. She states, “a 
communal relationship will be strained by 
dickering what each of the partners will d01 
for the other.”
Friends don’t expect payment
Most of the students interviewed agree I 
that favors done for friends require no 
repayment. “If a friend pays me back fora 
favor then I feel less close to that friend, 
states Lynn, a senior at CMU. According to I 
Clark the need for repayment depends on I 
the type of relationship. “If a person rides! 
a taxi to the airport, they are expected to I 
repay the driver. If a friend, however, drives I 
a friend to the airport, it would be iraper 
sonal to pay them.” Clark continues, “1 
is the difference between communal and ex | 
change relationships.”
Correction
In the January 22 issue of The Tartan. \ 
Ben Fischer was quoted as saying, “The 
president of one declining union gets more 
exposure to American people than does the 
president of the American steel industry.”! 
He made no such comment.
Which of the following are we supposed 
to do on Purim:
a. Give food to friends
b. hear the megilah
c. get drunk
d. give to the poor

---------------------------------------------------

ÄiLJjytwwuwaii
February 19, 1985—The Tartan—Page 7
Pauper's Kitchen
Student suggests possibilities for cheap survival
By RIC MEDROW
| Tartan Features Editor
The following article courtesy of the U.S.
[ government.
It’s time again to play squeeze the govern- 
Iment for all you can get. After all, they’ll 
[have their turn April 15.
For those of you who didn’t know before 
| now, you get the same financial aid package 
j whether or not you live on campus or off (its 
I far cheaper to live off campus in most cases.) 
¡And, more in keeping with this article, you 
[get the same aid no matter where you eat. 
[So, start thinking now about next year’s 
IpJans. If I hadn’t moved off campus and 
[started cooking for myself, I wouldn’t be able
to afford to write this article.
One-pot-meal
The meat ‘n potatoes lover can eat quick­
ly, cheaply and nutritiously with the ancient 
one-pot-meal. The base of a one-pot-meal 
can vary with taste, but I like to start with 
two red potatoes ($1.39 per bag, as opposed 
to $2.59 for russetts), one yellow onion ($.57 
lb. instead of $.79 lb. for red or white) and 
lots of parsley ($.39 per bunch). Simply rinse 
all of the above ingredients, chop the onion, 
shread the parsley and throw it all into a pot 
with V4 cup of water. Cover the pot, and put 
on medium heat for 35 minutes.
Two possible choices for meat are a pork
symbolics
Symbolics, Inc. is the established leader in the development of symbolic com­
puting systems for advanced applications in Artificial Intelligence, Knowledge- 
Based Systems, CAD, and Software Development. Our 3670 computer system, 
currently the most powerful LISP-based system commercially available, pro­
vides an unmatched software development environment for complex applica­
tions. We currently seek a Field Software Support Engineer for our Pittsburgh 
office.
FIELD SOFTWARE SUPPORT 
ENGINEER
The qualified candidate will provide technical advice and instruction on all 
Symbolic's software features, specializing in distribution and installation pro­
cedures for software products built in the Symbolics software system.
We require advanced programming skills in at least one programming pro­
cedural language, LISP, or equivalent. Significant software experience, par­
ticularly in system and networking software. Possession of good interpersonal 
skills is essential, along with excellent reporting and problem-solving ability. 
A B.S. in Applied Math/Computer Science, or equivalent, is required with 
0-4 years' experience.
We offer an excellent salary and compensation package. Please send resume 
to Donna Weinberg, Symbolics, Inc., 11 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, 
MA 02142. An equal opportunity employer.
loin rib end roast ($1.39 lb.) or fish ($1.89 
lb. whiting or $1.99 lb. croakers). In con­
trast, a strip steak would run you $4.79 lb. 
and haddock costs $3.99 lb.
Mystique not fully faded
Why the price difference is so great is hard 
to explain. Culture is one possibility. The 
upper classes were the only people able to 
afford shipping costs for beef in the early 
days of the West, while pork was eaten by 
factory workers and slaves. The mystique 
may not have fully faded.
Or for those of less imagination, croakers 
do tend to be more bony than haddock. But, 
unless you’re a bonaphobic, go for the 
whiting or croakers. The meat is very light 
and not real fishy like bluefish.
Turnip, collard or kale greens
As for preparation, dump the pork roast 
in with everything else at the beginning, and 
add 10 minutes to cooking time for a total 
of 45 minutes. For the fish, lay it on 
everything else for about 10 minutes.
Any vegetables will do, but string beans 
($1.29 lb.) are good cheap standbys, or for
the more adventurous, turnip greens ($.79 
lb.) collard greens ($1.19 lb.) or Kale greens 
($1.49 lb.) can be cooked and served as 
spinach is traditionally served. The greens 
also make a flavorful addition to soup. You 
can throw the vegetable in when you add the 
fish, or if you’re going with the roast, add 
10 minutes before the meal is ready to be 
served.
When the cooking is done, take the onions 
and parsley out, and put it on top of the fork 
mashed potato. In order to save money, 
calories and cholesterol, plop some sour 
cream on top ($.61 for 8 oz. Food Club sour 
cream and 59 calories per serving).
10 to fifteen minutes of preparation, 5 to 
10 minutes clean-up with only one pot and 
$5.00 later, you have a hearty dinner for two. 
Prices were obtained at Giant Eagle on Cen­
tre Ave. on 2-16-85. For those with spicier 
tastes, check Victuals & Spirits next week.
Itine
Where highly 
talented grads pursue 
high tech careers
You've gotten a good education. Now begin a great career with 
Hazeitine Corporation. We are one of the foremost leaders in the 
electronics industry. Our achievements in electronic systems and software development, signal and information processing, 
microwave and radio communications, VLSI and microelectronic design and antenna research have earned us a reputation for 
innovation and excellence. For example, the FAA has awarded Hazeitine a contract for the design, production and installation of the Microwave Landing System, making us the world's leading 
supplier of MLS equipment.
Since vital new ideas are our trademark, we value your knowledge. Hazeitine Research Laboratories in suburban Long Island, New York is seeking qualified and motivated MS and Ph D. candidates in Electrical Engineering or other related disciplines. Assignments will be in systems analysis and digital signal 
processing. Selected candidates will work closely with senior staff 
members to apply advanced adaptive antenna processing technology to a wide range of government applications The 
ideal candidates should possess a combination of analytical and hardware skills, particularly VLSI forms of digital processing with concurrent or systolic-like architectures
If you fit this description, you'll find challenging projects and 
outstanding career opportunities at Hazeitine
Come talk with our college recruiting representatives on campus
Wednesday, March 6If you're unable tr get together with us on campus, send your 
resume to: Ms. Douen Cassidy, College Relations Director, and tell her of your specific area of interest. Details on the diverse opportunities at Hazeitine are available in your school's placement office
Hazeitine
Corporation
Greenlawn, I.I., NY 11740.
An Equal Opportunity Employer Committed to Affirmative Action 
A Hazeitine Corporate Policy U.S. Citizenship Required
i

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS:
The Senate Rules Committee sponsors this year's
ORGANIZATIONAL SURVEY
All funded and non-funded organizations must complete the survey 
form and return it to the Rules Committee mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
mumsjamxmi xmtxmt
Forms due by FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1985
*y&< y*»- mBtmtmmmmmmBtmm w yrntymc yœ&mcyœo
Failure to complete this survey jeopardizes your status as a 
recognized organization and may result in freezing of funds. 
Forms are available at the Skibo Info Desk.
/SPORTS SPORTS 
EDUCATION^ EDUCATUm
Experts in their fields, over thirty Christian leaders will meet in Pittsburgh 
to address more than 2000 college and university students at JUBILEE 1985 
(February 22-24,1985). Speakers from across the country, Canada and England 
will examine the meaning of the Christian faith in nearly every area of study 
or vocation. The conference is sponsored by the Coalition for Christian Outreach, 
a ministry to students on campuses in Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia.
The featured speaker for the conference will be Dr. Os Guinness; author, 
speaker and television journalist from England. During 1980 he produced a 
documentary for the BBC on the USA presidential candidates, interviewing each 
extensively during their campaigns. He will address the entire conference three 
times on the theme of "Christian Calling and the Challenge of Modernity” in­
cluding the Friday evening analysis of the USA in the ’80’s.
Speakers from across North America will present seminars in various fields 
alongside local experts. Dr. V. Elving Anderson, Professor of Genetics at the 
University of Minnesota and the Dight Institute will address “Genetic Engineering
— The Splice of Life” in light of current research that is hotly debated. Dr. 
Ghillean T. Prance, Senior Vice President of the New York Botanical Garden 
in Bronx, NY, is an Amazonian botanist and will present the challenge of en­
vironment stewardship in our day.
Dr. Theodore R Malloch, International Economist for the United States Depart­
ment of State, will analyze the increasing North-South dialogue and the debate 
over a new international economic order from a normative Christian point of 
departure. Dr. George Marsden, Professor of History at Calvin College, author 
and editor, will examine the Christian Founding of America as a historical ques­
tion in dialogue with Dr. James F. Hitchcock, Professor of History at St. Louis 
University.
Ms Eleanor Tucker, anchorperson and reporter for WJJTV television (the CBS 
affiliate) in Jackson, MS, will question ethics, balanced reporting and the viewer’s 
responsibility to hold journalists accountable in their coverage. Ms. Leslie Ger- 
ding, Technical Staff member of AT&T Information Systems in New Jersey, will 
address the ethical issues associated with engineering and technology. Mr. 
Charles V. Hogren will address the responsibility of lawyers to promote justice 
in contrast to modern legal trends He is the Executive Director of Cabrini Green 
Legal Aid Clinic in Chicago.
Other speakers include those from area colleges, universities and the pro­
fessions. Entertainment will be provided by The Gospel Ensemble of Pittsburgh, 
Pam Mark HaR in Concert, and the Saltworks, who will present a performance 
of / am the Brother of Dragons, all on Saturday evening.
For more information contact:
Clyde Taylor Beth Much ant
Marybetle #18 661-4486
618 Clyde St 
578-8997
MEDICINE/f MlJ 
POLITICSCOMMUNICATIONS APPLIED Sqim*ÌÉ SOCIOLOGY7^
CorMeOJWMMWtATio
'APPLIED SCKNCr 
SOCIOLOGYDUSIN 
SCIE ARTSLAWl DIDLIC AL STUDIES PSYCH0L06YÜ MISSIONS
BUSINESS
S 
DHJlftAlSTUDin 
CHoiooy
:ThNwHISTCr^^^HWTOHYMgME 19Ô5
JUtMl.ft.L WU5 is * (uftfm'ACVdmKiwd t«» examine the meaning t»l the Ltwdship t*f C hn*»t and the |UBH>> «rf i ><>d in our live* as p**»t-resurre% lion believers, Februar^ 22. 2.1, 24, I^HS at the I ittsburj; JmPM »redby the CiMlitum (ur Chrbtun OulrMih f>740 Fifth Avenue. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania I520H (412) >»3-.1.103

---------------------------------------------------

February 19, 1985—The Tartan—Page 9
rationale for academic reformThe Core: a
continued from page 3
Xo my mind, periodic assessments of the 
goals and values of general education are in­
evitable — even in periods of relative tran­
quility or moments in which an institu­
tion is pleased with its overall position in the 
academic marketplace. Reigning assump­
tions about the scope and structure of knowledge itself—and ideas about its cur­
rent limits and limitations — are forever shif­
ting. Hence it is not wholly unexpected that initiatives for constructive curricular change 
typically arise from the professorial ranks, 
for it is they who are at the cutting edge of 
research and are responsible for the quality of undergraduate education. In addition, 
reappraisals of educational objectives may 
prevent a faculty from getting too set in its 
ways, thereby reducing the likelihood of in­
stitutional entropy.
While a major curricular reform is cur­
rently under way, the situation at Camegie- 
Mellon appears somewhat different from 
onditions and challenges that exist 
lsewhere. Unlike our competitors, we never 
bandoned “core” requirements: students in 
ach of our four undergraduate colleges for 
our decades have been trained in a 
liberal/professional” tradition that was set 
orth in the Carnegie Plan. CMUs approach 
o education, to be sure, has been neither 
tatic nor uniform. Departments have long 
njoyed considerable freedom in establishing 
cademic standards for their own 
ndergraduates as their sense of priorities 
nd critical issues evolved. Nonetheless, the 
asis and sense of a genuine “intellectual 
ommunity” here has been vitiated with the 
xpansion and shifting composition of our 
tudent population and as a result of fun- 
amental changes in our corporate identi- 
y. “An intellectual community,” according 
socioligist Daniel Bell, “is not necessarily 
efined by similar readings and a common 
nd of allusions (though this makes 
iscourse easier) but rather by common stan-
spwraf
COME SEE 
THE
GREEK SECTION
BUTTONS 
DECALS 
FUZZIES 
KEYCHAINS 
MUGS 
NOTEPADS 
PILLOWS 
PADDLES 
SHOELACES 
SHOT GLASSES 
STATIONARY 
STUFFED ANIMALS 
TRANSFERS
contiucn
YOUR CAMPUS STORE 
3808 FIFTH AVE. 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONE: 681-7777%A^Ze
dards and values that permit the inter­
change of judgments and opinions on diverse 
matters of experience.” We presently lack 
a fully developed and rigorously enforced set 
of educational objectives that serve all 
Carnegie-Mellon undergraduates, regardless 
of their particular intellectual interests and 
special professional ambitions. But this will 
not be true for long: At a time in which 
CMU is being characterized in the media as 
Computer U,” steps have been taken to 
rethink our basic educational principles in 
light of changing circumstances.
In the spring of 1984, the councils of the 
College of Fine Arts, the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, the College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences, and the Mellon College 
of Science agreed to a new set of University 
Requirements for General Education. The 
University’s Educational Policy Committee 
approved a version of these requirements — 
broken into six groups of courses with a 
minimum number of required units — to 
go into effect for the Class of 1989. (The 
framework originally envisioned for the new
CORE” appears on p. 62 of the 1984-86 
catalog.) In September 1984, I was given the 
task of translating an agreement in princi­
ple into a coherent and workable educa­
tional policy that embodies CMU’s present- 
day educational realities and can anticipate 
future developments here and elsewhere. . . 
Intellectual Rationale for a University 
Core
The key to the relationship between 
“liberal” and “professional” education at 
Carnegie-Mellon University lies in the com­
mon intellectual skills at the heart of both. 
In each of our undergraduate colleges, we 
• have seen that professional objectives and 
problems can be used to delineate an ap­
propriate set of intellectual skills to be 
developed in an undergraduate’s education. 
Contemplating the “fundamentals” and try­
ing to grasp “the big picture” in turn helps 
to get a handle on the most appropriate 
ways to define and address “professional” 
problems. Unlike many institutions, our 
faculty has never argued that the mastery 
of techniques that are useful for one’s voca­
tional advancement should constitute the 
basis of one’s college training. We have long 
presumed that our students have a social 
responsibility to pursue knowledge in ways 
that will be beneficial to their families, pro­
fessional communities and nation, as well as 
for their personal well-being. An effective 
concept of general education, therefore, is 
indispensable to our liberal/professional 
tradition, for it orients us toward the 
representation, architecture and conduct of 
inquirv itself.
No one denies the difficulties in identi­
fying those intellectual skills and overar­
ching questions of value and meaning that 
should serve as a basis of our shared 
academic life at Carnegie-Mellon. Cognitive 
psychologists have demonstrated that the 
transference of general principles from one 
problem area to another is extremely dif­
ficult. At the same time, what is known 
about the intellectual processes involved 
suggests that practice in applying insights 
and generalizations from one setting to 
| continued on page 22
Our Open House 
can open up a world of career 
opportunities for you.
Wednesday (Feb. 27) from 6:30 to 8:30 PM Porter Hall, Rooms 19A and C
Plan to attend. Several 
of our Technical Managers 
will be there to talk 
with you. Refreshments 
will be served.
Harris is a leading producer of state-of-the-art 
communication, information processing and 
microelectronic products for the worldwide 
information technology market. That’s proba­
bly one of the reasons why we consistently 
ranked among the top 25 employers in the 
recent Graduating Engineer Employer Prefer­
ence Survey. And when you come to our 
Open House and On-Campus Interviews, 
we’ll be glad to tell you about all the other 
reasons.
Today, Harris is a Fortune 200 company with 
sales of $2 billion And the outlook for tomor­
row is even more promising. Career openings 
exist with Harris at various locations in Florida. 
We are interested in meeting candidates at 
all degree levels in:
EEx cixctnga Ea
On Campus Interviews 
Thursday (Feb. 28)
See your Placement Office for details.
We are an equal opportunity employer, M/F/H/V 
U.S. Citizenship is required for employment with 
our Government Systems Sector
HARRIS
dChler dEcOepopru sWydOEy

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate Office Hours
CIT
Larry BachTues4:30-5:30
Karen DeMelioWed6:30-7:30
David GoldsteinMon3:30-4:30
Colleen HarrisonMon10:30-11:30
Cherie fagerskiWed11:30-12:30
Michael KingTues12:30-1:30
Edward MillerMon1:30-2:30
Tamal MukherjeeMon11:30-12:30
Steven WellerThurs1:30-2:30
H&SS
Diana BiancoThurs10:30-11:30
Peter CohenFri11:30-12:30
Jacqueline PiscitelloThurs2:30-3:30
Bill SimmonsThurs12:30-1:30
SUPA
Jean NovakMon 12:30-1:30
IM
Hilary DebroffMon 4:30-5:30
MCS
Michael Bett 
Daniela Cramer 
Virginia Ickes 
Jeff Sollet 
Cindy Taylor
CFA
fay Brooks 
Rieh Hollibaugh 
Chrissy Hynes 
Mark Kissner
Tues 5:30-6:30 
Thurs 7:30-8:00 
Tues 11:30-12:30 
Wed 3:30-4:30 
Thurs 4:30-5:50
Tues 3:30-4:30 
Fri 12:30-1:30 
Tues 10:30-11:30 
Tues 2:30-3:30
Student Senate
Working together, 
we get things done.
Bill McCormick (President) Fri 1:30-2:30
CAPRI PIZZA
nNg
$099
ÆBjm LARGÌ
Where Today... ... Tomorrow 
And Every Day... you set the Best Pizza in Oakland at the Best Price!
Eat-In or Delivered
LARGE PIZZA and 2 LITERS OF PEPSI!!
UNBELIEVABLE!!
OUR SAME FAMOUS SPECIAL 
WITH NOW AN EVEN GREATER 
SAVINOS TO VOUf!
oooaxoaxicxxxraxioaxE^*OAKLAND'S FINEST NIGHTCLUB* °
I rCEEESSTUDIC I0 GIGANTIC VIDEO SCREEN ENTERTAINMENT* 0
o »Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.» °
oaxiooaxiaxioaxioa)^^
Whm You r« Onto A Good Thing, Stick With It!!
3415 FORCES AVE. PGM. PA. 19213 PHONE 6S1-22C2

---------------------------------------------------

____________________Entertainment.
George Gee plays swing for the young crowd
George Gee & the Make-Believe Orchestra play swing that rocks.
On a sweltering, humid afternoon in Pitt­
sburgh, George Gee takes a break from the 
final arrangements for the New York City 
debut of his band, The Make-Believe 
Ballroom Orchestra, at the Red Parrot Club 
on W 57th St., June 29th and 30th.
“It’s two shows at a hip club during the 
concluding weekend of the Kool Jazz 
Festival,” George says, “and we are ready for 
it I don’t know if we could have done it last 
year, but, the band has matured, and that’s 
important, especially for a swing band.” 
“You see, swing is hard to put into words, 
i It’s a concept, a feeling, and very important. 
As Duke Ellington said, ‘It don’t mean a 
thing, if it ain’t got that swing.’ We were 
good last year, but, this year we know how 
to swing, and that makes all the difference.” 
Part of the reason for the band’s jump in- 
Ito swing lies in the solid commitment the 
[members have made to the band, and to 
¡George Gee. Active since the Spring of 1980, 
tThe Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra is a 
isteady gig with the band gaining more 
recognition. That helps to attract and hold 
the better musicians, the people in high 
emand.
“When the attitude is professional,” 
;eorge says, “things fall into place. The 
-lake-Believe Ballrom Orchestra believes in 
tself as a unit. They’ve learned they can still 
ave a lot of fun, at the same time they 
ealize they have a serious mission. It’s a 
and now, they think and play as one, now 
e can swing!”
The Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra 
as matured from a group that does big 
and shows to a band that can swing with 
he best bands in the country. A former 
ntertainment Editor of the Pittsburgh 
ess said of the band, “There is not a 
iscemible difference between this orchestra 
nd the bands now touring the country 
nder the names of Tommy Dorsey and 
lenn Miller.”
When did the Make-Believe Ballroom Or-
hestra really begin to swing? Was it 
mething George was looking for and 
ushing the band towards?
I’m always looking for something extra, 
good example is choreography we do, up 
d down movements of the saxes, the trom- 
ones swinging on ‘In the Mood.’ 
horeography is part of the original idea of
On this day in 
Rock and Roll.
In 1974, Dick Clark holds his own 
answer to the Grammy, Awards; the 
American Music Awards. Clark backs 
the idea of letting the record buying 
public pick their favorite performers.
This week marks the deaths of Jazz 
Trumpeter Lee Morgan on Feb 19,
972, former Supreme Florence 
Allard on Feb 22, 1976. AC/DC’s Bon 
^Cott on Feb 19, 1980, and Murray 
The K Kaufman, known as the “fifth 
atle,” on Feb 21, 1982.
^ere is the winner in the “No Respect” 
c°ntest. I received a number of 
disrespectful entries, but I had to pick 
a dinner, so here’s Todd Goldman . . .
My roommates — that’s another thing. LaStweek they tried to get A 
hi O to have me killed as a campus
^rvice.
Second place goes to Jeffrey L.
Kenausis
I tell ya’ I don’t get no respect. My 
?lr I friend says I’m awful in bed.
a swing band. Everybody did it ’cause it’s 
another way of making the music more 
vibrant, yet, most big bands working today 
leave it out of their show.”
“When I first suggested the choreography, 
man , you should’ve heard it, the band 
rebelled. That all changed once they heard 
how much our audience appreciated it. 
Sometimes, we get more applause, just 
thunderous, for the choreography than for 
the tunes. That’s the difference between a 
live swing band and a record. We react well 
to the audience. After all, that’s why we re 
here.”
“I rehearse the band hard,” George says 
with a twinkle in his eyes. “Not too hard, but 
it’s got to be right. I guess I do push them 
in a certain direction. That’s my job. Let 
me tell you a story.”
“Back in December, 1979, Count Basie 
passed through Pittsburgh and I had the op­
portunity to interview him for WRCT-FM, 
where I hosted a big band show ‘The Make- 
Believe Ballroom.’ When we were done, I 
told him I wanted to start a big band. Count 
said, ‘George, that’s great. I can’t really tell 
you anything except, always remember the 
word ‘persevere,’ because that’s what it 
takes.’ ”
“I saw Count Basie several times over the 
next few years and he always asked about 
my band. I would say, ‘What’s the word, 
Count?’ He would answer, ‘Ahh, Georgee, 
you know the word.’ And I did. I still do.”
Perseverance was a tough act for George 
to follow in the early years of the Make- 
Believe Ballroom Orchestra. Making sure 
everything was together for a gig: the equip­
ment, a truck to haul the equipment, the 
band, even a gig itself. All the bad things 
about leading a band, the headaches and 
worries seemed harder because the results 
George sought were often just out of reach.
“Yeah, it could get frustrating,” George 
will admit now. “But then things started to 
click. I remember the Station Square gig in 
November, 1983. We were hired to back 
Patty Andrews of the original Andrews
By KRISTOPHER KOHUTH
Tartan Staffwriter
“Rocky” meets “Flashdance” in this film 
of a high-school wrestler’s romantic pursuits 
and athletic aspirations. As such, however, 
“VisionQuest” provides neither believable 
nor consistent characters, and ultimately 
oversteps its bounds by posing more pro­
blems than it ever bothers to resolve.
The film is based on Terry Davis’s 1979 
book of the same title, which was nominated 
for an American Book Award as the year’s 
“Best First Novel.” It’s story is that of Louden 
Swain (played by Matthew Modine of “Mrs. 
Soffel”), the star wrestler of Thomson High 
School who, for some unclear personal 
reason, decides to drop twenty-eight pounds 
and wrestle Shute, the statewide champ who 
regularly works out with telephone poles. To 
make matters worse, Louden and his divorc-
How can she decide that in twenty 
seconds?
And third place also goes to Todd
Goldman .. .
Yesterday I went to join the Karate 
Club. They asked me if I knew self- 
defense, and I said no. So they beat 
me up.
When I called Todd to tell him that 
he won, he didn’t believe me. I guess 
that’s because he’s used to getting no 
respect...
Sisters. We did everything a professional 
band has to do —in one day we learned Pat­
ty’s material from her original ar­
rangements.”
“Patty didn’t know us at first. She’s a real 
pro, she’s made it, and we were young and 
relatively unknown outside the Tri-State 
area. However, the gig was a huge success, 
and when I called Patty afterwards to check 
out her reaction, this is what she said, 
‘George, I thoroughly enjoyed the show. 
Your band is one of the most solid, swing­
ing, bright fresh-sounding new organizations 
on the music scene today.’ ”
“I knew we were close to the sound I 
wanted, but, when someone like Patty An­
drews can say that about The Make-Believe 
Ballroom Orchestra, man, that’s smooth. 
It’s time for New York.”
If home is where the heart is, then play­
ing the Red Parrot Club will be like com­
ing home for George Gee and his Make-
ed father (Ronny Cow of “Beverly Hills Cop”) 
provide room and board for the dark-eyed 
Carla (newcomer Linda Fiorantino), a 
drifter artist on her way to San Francisco. 
Louden soon finds himself infatuated with 
this independent beauty who is three years 
his senior. The remainder of the film 
chronicles his attempt to win both Carla’s 
love and the big meet with Shute.
Such a plot walks the threshold of 
unbearable corn. . .“will good guy Louden 
get girl and glory?” Davis’s book sidesteps this 
trap by way of skillful character development 
and original insights into the nature of 
teenage love. Unfortunately, screenwriter 
Darryl Ponicsan has reduced most of the 
book’s material to a script short on substance 
and long on cheap dialogue. He gives 
18-year-old Louden the mentality of an 
undersexed pubescent, and throughout 
Loudens affair with Carla, he never allows 
Loudens lust to develop into love. Worse yet 
are the inconsistencies of Carla. At one point 
she expresses a deep concern over Loudens 
malnutritive faintings, but at another, w, ile 
watching him being bloodied on the wrestl­
ing mat, she cheers him on to a barbaric vic­
tory. When Louden and Carla, in the film’s 
most emotional scene, finally expose both to 
each other and to themselves their true af­
fections, Panicsan injects so much unsen­
sitive and foul language (apparently his idea 
of realism) into the dialogue that he suffi­
ciently distracts the viewer and destroys the 
scene.
Director Harold Becker (“Taps,” “The 
Onion Field”) make a bold attempt to save 
such scenes from complete failure, but he
Believe Ballroom Orchestra. George was 
born in the Yorkville section of Manhattan, 
but, more importantly, in New York lives 
the spirits of the swing bands past.
The break is over. George returns to 
bringing the spirit of swing back to New 
York. It’s a spirit alive and vibrant for a new 
audience with a timeless interest in the ex­
citement of swing music.
“I like that band. A lot. They really swing!” 
—Don Pardo 
“George Gee’s band was great! I’d welcome 
them at the Inagural Ball.”
— U.S. Senator Gary Hart
George Gee and his Make-Believe 
Ballroom Orchestra will swing at Graffiti, 
4615 Baum Blvd., this Wednesday February 
20th at 8:30 p.m. George Gee & Co. will also 
appear at this year’s H & SS Spring Fling 
and the Beaux Arts Ball.inconsistent
is held under tight reins by executive pro­
ducers Peter Guber and Jon Peters, who use 
the same production style for “VisionQuest” 
as they did for their cosmetic hit 
“Flashdance.” There, the MTV cinema­
tography was at least somewhat consistent 
with Jennifer Beale’s dancing. Louden 
however, is a wrestler, and scenes such as him 
warming up alone under a single spotlight 
in a deserted gym end up looking like out- 
takes from a Nike commercial.
The film’s score was composed by 
Tangerine Dream, and here their “En­
vironments“ sound is mundane as ever, com­
ing on with all the musical intensity of a 
cameraman sitting on a synthesizer. Also 
featured are the main theme song by 
Journey (which the promotional handout 
claims is the world’s most popular band), 
and other toss-offs from the likes of Don 
Henley, Dio, and, looking rattier than ever, 
pop-singer Madonna, singing her new song 
“Crazy for You.” In fact, she sings it on three 
separate occasions (three times too many).
When the film’s denoument finally occurs 
it becomes a wham-bam affair to end the 
movie and roll the final credits. Louden 
fights his big match (guess who wins) and 
that’s it. No mention of what happens to 
Carla, no mention of Loudens troubled 
friends. Instead, we get a frame-freeze and 
a voice-over of Louden Swain giving us his 
philosophy, telling us how it’s “up to you,” 
and that only “you can make it (your own 
‘VisionQuest’) happen, and to “go for it.” 
I was thinking the same thing halfway 
through the film, only then I wanted to go 
for the exit.
Goldman is now a well-respected man
VisionQuest proves to be

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
Hanin sorts through the Grammys
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Grammys are coming, the Grammys 
are coming! If you are interested at all in the 
world of music, then Monday the 25th is not 
a day to be studying. Instead, give yourself 
a night off and watch the proceedings of the 
National Academy of Recording Arts arid 
Sciences’ 27th Annual Grammy Awards.
But don’t watch them uninformed. In­
stead, try to pick the winners, and compare 
them to those chosen here, and to the ac­
tual winners.
This year’s nominees present a difficult 
choice in nearly all of the categories. 
Although there are always one or two 
nominees that seem to be there more to fill 
the ballot than for anything else, this year 
puts forth strong contenders for each
Perhaps the only sure bet in the bunch is 
the Best New Artist award. Although all of 
the nominees are deserving of this honor, 
Cyndi Lauper is without a doubt the win­
ner here. 1984 has been a banner year for 
her, with her album She’s So Unusual spen­
ding most of its time near the top of the 
charts, and spawning four hit singles, a 
record for a debut album, and quite im­
pressive for any album at that.
Lauper is also a top contender in three 
other categories: Best Female Pop vocal Per­
formance, Record of the Year, and Album 
of the Year. For the female pop award, 
Lauper’s strongest competitor is the holder 
of this writer’s “comeback of the year” award: 
Tina Turner.
In fact, Turner is maintaining a very high 
level of respect from her peers as is evidenc­
ed by the standing ovation she received at 
Dick Clark’s American Music Awards.
Although Lauper’s performance is top- 
notch, Turner has the strength of her com­
eback, the air of a seasoned performer, and 
a solid performance as well. Look for Tina 
Turner to walk away with this Grammy.
In the Record of the Year category, Cyn­
di Lauper again has competition from Tina 
Turner, as well as from Bruce Springsteen. 
Although either of the two could take this 
one, look for Bruce Springsteen to get his 
Grammy in this category.
So, what of the Album of the Year award? 
This category is the most difficult of all to 
choose. There isn’t one nominee that
couldn’t walk away with this one. After qui^ 
a bit of deliberation, the album with the 
most record sales became prominent. Look 
for Prince to grace the stage when he accepts 
this award.
It is possible, though, that Lionel Richje 
could win the Album of the Year category- 
but that’s only a long-shot. Richie does have 
a good chance of going to the awards party 
with two Grammys to his name, for his 
nominations for Song of the Year (a 
songwriter’s award) and Male Pop Vocal 
Performance.
His closest competitor in both of these 
categories is Phil Collins. If Collins were to 
continued on page 14
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION • ANXIETY • LONELINESS • ANGER • CAREER DOUBTS• FAMILY TROUBLES • DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS • SEXUAL QUESTIONS • MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS• LACK OF MOTIVATION • SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi­
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
%
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
Drawing
Painting
Communication Design 
Photography 
Environmental Design 
Illustration 
Fashion Illustration 
Fashion Design
June 24-July 25,1985
For five weeks, full-time courses are offered to col­
lege students desiring in-depth experience in one of 
the fields of art and design. Taking advantage of the 
resources of New York City, the curriculum supple­
ments intensive studio work with field trips and guest 
lecturers. Students register for one course worth four 
undergraduate credits. Limited dormitory space is 
available.
For information and application write or call the Office 
of Special Programs: (212) 741-8975.
Parsons School of Design 
Office of Special Programs
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N Y. 10011
Please send me information about the summer 
session for college students.
Name ______________________—-----------Address._____________________________
C»ty_StateZip
Grammy predictions highlighted
RECORD OF THE YEAR: Bruce Springsteen Dancing In The Dark, Cyndi Lauper j 
Girls Just Want To Have Fun, Chicago Hard Habit to Break, Huey Lewis and the NewsJ 
The Heart of Rock & Roll, Tina Turner What’s Love Got To Do With It.
ALBUM OF THE YEAR: Bruce Springsteen Bom in the USA, Lionel Ritchie Can’t S/oJ 
Down, Tina Turner Private Dancer, Prince Purple Rain, Cyndi Lauper She’s So Unusual] 
SONG OF THE YEAR: Phil Collins Against All Odds (Take A Look At Me Now), Lionel| 
Ritchie Hello, Stevie Wonder I Just Called To Say I Love You, Cyndi Lauper and 
Hyman Time After Time, Graham Lyle and Terry Britten What’s Love Got To Do WWiJf.l 
BEST NEW ARTIST: Sheila E., Frankie Goes To Hollywood, Corey Hart, The Judds, j 
Cyndi Lauper.
FEMALE POP VOCAL PERFORMANCE: Cyndi Lauper Girls Just Want. . ., Sheilal 
E. The Glamorous Life, Deneice Williams Let’s Hear It. . ., Sheena Easton Strut, TinaJ 
Turner What’s Lave Got To With It.
MALE POP VOCAL PERFORMANCE: Phil Collins Against All Odds, Kenny 
Footloose, Lionel Ritchie Hello, Stevie Wonder I Just CaUed To Say I Love You, Johi 
Waite Missing You.
GROUP POP VOCAL: The Cars Drive, Chicago Hard Habit To Break, The Pointt 
Sisters Jump (For My Love), Yes Owner Of A Lonely Heart, Wham! Wake Me 
You Go-Go.
FEMALE ROCK VOCAL: Tina Turner Better Be Good To Me, Lita Ford Danciri ( 
The Edge, Bonnie Tyler Here She Comes, Pia Zadora Rock It Out, Wfendy O. Williams 
MALE ROCK VOCAL: David Bowie Blue Jean, Bruce Springsteen Dancing In The Dari 
Pink Houses John Cougar Mellencamp, Billy Idol Rebel Yell, Elton John Restless. 
GROUP ROCK VOCAL: Genesis Genesis, The Cars Heartbeat City, Van Halen Juml 
Yes 90125, Prince and The Revolution Purple Rain.
College or University
15
The Oakland Review is now accep­
ting submissions of poetry, short fic­
tion, one-act plays, essays, and black- 
and-white artwork and photographs 
for its 1985 edition. Submissions may 
be placed in care of the Editor, 
Oakland Review, at the Skibo Infor­
mation Desk. For any questions or 
special accommodations call 
Cathleen Barnhart at 362-3787. 
Deadline for submissions is March 1*

---------------------------------------------------

February 19, 1985—The Tartan—Page 13
f orbes Gallery features a variety of media
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
to The Tartan 
This week’s exhibition at the Forbes 
cilery features the work of senior artists B 
inning, Debbie Harrison and Margie 
,'euhaus. These artists display works in a 
Lariety of media, including fiber, painting, 
prints, and drawings. The opening is this 
vening from 7:00 to 9:00.
g Dunning exhibits mainly silkscreen 
nonoprints. Monoprinting is a process 
yhich allows the artist to produce only one 
lopy of a print. as opposed to other types 
If printing, which allow for editions.
“The monotone process loosens you up,” 
aid Dunning. “You have to work fast, due 
the nature of the process. The work 
[ecomes more spontaneous.”
The majority of Dunning’s prints are a 
lepiction fo fish, executed in deep mauves, 
¡lues, and greens.
“I chose the fish because I wanted to get 
,vay from doing completely figurative work 
[r a while,” said Dunning. “They’re also 
in.” Dunning believes that her monoprints 
f fish have allowed her figurative drawings
to become more relaxed. “The two media 
have worked well together,” she said.
Debbie Harrsion works in a number of 
media. Harrison’s pieces are frequently in 
fibers, “although I don’t exactly consider 
myself a fiber artist,” said Harrison.
“I’m working formally right now, trying 
to work with flat space as opposed to real 
space, or illusionary, three-cimensional 
space, said Harrison. Some of Harrison’s 
work, which includes stretched canvas with 
paper built into the piece, has its grounding 
more in reliefs than in strict fiber work.
“I see each of my pieces like a sentence,” 
said Harrison. “When my work comes 
together, it’s like a paragraph.”
Much of Harrison’s work is built on the 
security of a “wall.” “A lot of my imagery is 
very architectual,” siad Harrison, “although 
you’re not supposed to look at it and say 
Thats a building.’ You’re just supposed to 
see structure.”
Margie Neuhaus displays paintings and 
drawings which reflect her major in draw­
ing with a minor in architecture. Her pain­
tings of the buildings and streets in Florence,
Italy, were works completed while Neuhaus 
was in Italy last year, studying Italian, pain­
ting, and drawing.
“I was there during the summer, when the 
heat and red sky were very oppressive,” said 
Neuhaus. This heat is visible in the thick 
reds and deep earth tones in Neuhaus’ 
paintings.
Neuhaus also displays a seried of prints 
based on her visits to a nursing home. One 
patient, a ninety-six-year-old named Agnes, 
became one of Neuhaus’ most important 
subjects.
“She didn’t mind sitting for me,” said 
Neuhaus. “She would talk, and I could sit 
and draw. It really improved my drawing 
skills.”
In an ink/ink wash/watercolor portrait 
entitled Agnes, Neuhaus repeats the words
of a story Agnes often told behind the im­
age of the woman. “She had a positive at­
titude and outlook,” said Neuhaus, “despite 
her age and some of the problems she had 
lived through.”
Dunning, Harrison, and Neuhaus will be 
at the Forbes Gallery until February 24. 
Gallery hours are 11:00 to 6:00 Wednesday 
through Friday; Noon to 5:00, Saturday and 
Sunday.
Did you know...
that Ian Gillan, who has provided 
the vocal power behind Deep Purple, 
Gillan, and Black Sabbath portrayed 
Jesus Christ in the movie Jesus Christ 
Superstar* .. .and that Yvonne Elliman 
played Mary Magdeline?
obert Klein is a hit at CMU
ly CURT WOHLEBER
brtan Staffwriter
I Actor and comedian Robert Klein, vetem 
(Chicago’s Second City comedy troupe and 
imerous film, stage, and television ap- 
|arances, came to the Skibo Ballroom last 
Dnday in a sold-out performance 
ented by AB Lectures.
.Klein was greeted by cheers of “Big Irv” 
]>m part of the audience, a reference to the 
iracter he played in “Poison Ivy,” a televi- 
ln movie that aired the previous night, 
tough a forgettable film, Klein pointed
out it was the only network program that 
night not dealing with dead children, run­
ning against “Surviving” and the “Atlanta 
Child Murders.” This led into a routine on 
the banalities of television (“No, Skippy has 
more protein than a pound of dog shit”).
Klein’s musical offerings included rendi­
tions of earlier versions of Tina Turner’s 
“What’s Love Got to Do With It? (“How’s 
Lo-o-ove Rel e vant?”), Gregorian chants, 
and a hilarious heart-felt ode to his home 
town, “The Bronx is Beautiful This Time 
of Year.” For a finale, Klein did his famous 
blues bit “I Can’t Stop My Leg.”
HHB
HHB-Softron has been a pioneer in the development 
of products for the electronics industry. Organized 
in 1977, the Company has consistently achieved 
technically innovative solutions to the challenges fac­
ing the design and test engineer. HHB-Softron is 
now recognized as the leader in design evaluation 
technology, actively involved in the exciting and 
rapidly expanding area of software for Computer Aid­
ed Engineering (CAE), providing state-of-the-art 
design tools to electronics design and test engineers.
The Company was founded as a service organiza­
tion, concentrating in the ATE, design aids, and test 
development software field. A gradual transition to 
a product-oriented firm began in 1982. In 1985, the 
Company offers a number of products and services 
in the design and test development software field: 
CADAT Logic/Fault Simulator, CADAT-IC 
Logic/Fault Simulator, Chipchecker Logic Design 
Tester, Custom ATE Software Development, UNIX 
Portation Services, Test Program Development and 
Consulting Services in Design and Test.
HHB-Softron is looking for top notch individuals to 
fill various job openings in the Company. Qualified 
applicants should have a well-rounded and thorough 
Computer Science education, or optionally, a strong 
Electrical Engineering education with a minor in 
Computer Science. C programming experience is 
preferred. Areas of work would include: Computer 
Modeling and Simulation of Digital Electronics and
ufi
YOU WANT WINGS YOU CRAVED WINGS YOU HAVE WINGS¦ ¦
AT
RIB HOUSE
Ribs • Chicken 
Buffalo New York Chicken Wings
2125 Murray Ave., Sq. Hill 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217521-8827
Systems, Circuit Analysis, Computer-Aided Test 
Generation and Diagnostics, Graphics Software 
Development, UNIX Systems Portation and Com­
piler Development and Modification.
The Company is housed in modern offices in 
Mahwah, New Jersey, containing all the facilities 
needed for continued engineering development in 
its chosen field. Computer capabilities include VAX, 
Apollo, Pyramid, and Mentor processors as well as 
ATE equipment such as Fairchild, GenRad and 
Siemens.
HHB-Softron will be recruiting at Carnegie-Mellon on 
Monday, March 11, 1985. Please see our schedule 
for sign-up and additional information.
UNIX is a registered trademark of Bell Laboratories, 
CADAT and CADAT-IC are tradmarks of 
HHB-Softron.
HHB-Softron
1000 Wyckoff Avenue 
Mahwah, New Jersey 07430 
(201) 848-8000. or 
Toll-Free (800) 526-0680
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
Fresh music from new talent and old friends
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
1. Richard Thompson — Across A 
Crowded Room (Polydor)
If there was ever a musician who deserv­
ed to abandon his cult status and receive 
mass acceptance, it is Richard Thompson. 
Since the late ’60s when he co-founded the 
British folk-rock band Fairport Convention, 
he has churned out deeply emotional music 
with ultra-vulnerable vocals and delicate, 
pointed guitar fingering. On this new solo 
1LP, his third since splitting with col­
laborating wife Linda, sparks fly from the 
appealing, bouncy melodies which color 
stories of deeply felt, universal human rela­
tionships.
2. The Stranglers — Aural Sculpture 
(Epic)
“Wait. I feel something stirring.” This is 
precisely what the liner notes warn and what 
the material on The Stranglers’ ninth album
accomplishes. Since 1977 this British 
quartet, led by charismatic Hugh Cornwell, 
has prided itself on ignoring trends. Moody 
and upbeat soul stylings and subtle political 
commentary give the songs an engaging, 
deadpan quality. Cornwell exudes anger and 
pathetic sorrow while singing about the 
social crimes of his shiftiest characters yet, 
like “Punch And Judy” and “Mad Hatter.” 
3. Billy Bragg — Brewing Up With Bil­
ly Bragg (CD Presents)
What could be more entertaining in a 
pure sense than a guy and his guitar? On 
highly lyrical songs, such as “Love Gets 
Dangerous” and “St. Swithin’s Day,” young 
Billy Bragg gently or harshly strums chords 
on his electric guitar with a burning urgen­
cy. His messages relate to today’s youth with 
unmistakably British locales. Bragg’s 
melodies contain a richness lacking on his 
debut EP, Life’s A Riot, while his poetry con­
tinues to ring with simplistic on his back im­
pressing the hell out of folks at music in­
dustry conventions?
4. Dojoji — Dojoji (Plexus Holland)
Remember Lesley Woods, the brutally 
sensual voice of the Au Pairs? With her new 
group, Dojoji, she has made giant musical 
strides by creating catchy funk-driven songs. 
Hans Rath, one of her new Dutch col­
leagues, peppers the music with jazz sax. 
Crying violins and wacky synths enhance the 
joyful, unpredictable mood initiated by
Woods’ spicy lyrics. The EP’s five tr; 
shake and simmer like there’s no tomorrow 
5. Pablo Moses — Tension (Alligator) 
Praise Jah for Pablo Moses! His new reCorr 
bounces right along with stylish producti0, 
and, more importantly, and intense recogni 
tion of human rights. Moses covers the wori( 
problems of ghetto suffering, pove^ 
government oppression, and the nudear 
threat. Irresistible reggae music like 
should bring his message home.
Adam's Grammy prediction!
continued from page 12
take either of these from Richie, it would be 
for the Male Pop Vocal Performance Award. 
Even though the competition is tough, watch 
for Richie to win both awards.
But Richie isn’t the only artist who has a 
good chance of leaving the ceremonies with 
two little gold record players. Tina Turner,
ooio 
esign
Special Summer Programs
Parsons in Paris—July 1-August 12
Paint on the Left Bank, explore prehistoric caves in the Dordogne, visit the masterpieces of renaissance art In Tuscany. Courses include painting, drawing, printmakmg, art history and liberal arts. Students may choose to spend the last two weeks of the program in the Dordogne or Siena.
Photography in Paris—July 1-29
Study both the aesthetics and the craft of photography in the city that has inspired great photographers for 150 years The program is co-sponsored by the Friends of Photography and the New School for Social Research Guest lecturers and visits to Parisian galleries supplement the curriculum.
Fashion in Paris—July 1-July 29
Study the history and contemporary trends of French fashion design through visits to Parisian museums and costume collections Guest lecturers and visits to design studios and retail outlets are part of the program, as are daily classes in fashion illustration
History of Architecture and Decorative 
Arts in Paris—July 1-July 29
Offered m collaboration with the renowned Museé des Arts Décoratifs, this program focuses on the history of French architecture and European decorative arts Excursions to points outside of Paris are included; last summer, students visited Versailles, Vaux le Vicomte and Fountainbleau.
History of Architecture and Contemporary 
Design in Italy—July 1-July 30
The architectural heritage of Italy is studied in Rome, Florence and Venice, where on-site presentations are made by Parsons faculty. Lectures on contemporary Italian design are supplemented with visits to design studios and production facilities, as well as presentations by guest speakers from the design community.
Graphic Design in Japan—July 26-August 26
Design students and professionals will discover the excitement of Japanese advertising and graphic design through workshops, seminars and presentations by internationally known designers. Studio, museum and gallery visits supplement the curriculum, which emphasizes the sources, in the traditional arts, of much contemporary Japanese design.
Ceramics and Fibers in Japan—July 26-August 26
Courses in ceramics, fibers and the history of Japanese crafts are held under the supervision of master Japanese craftsmen and members of the Parsons faculty in Tokyo, Kyoto and Inbe (Bizen) Workshops are 
supplemented with visits to local museums, the traditional hillside kiln sites, textile facilities and design studios.
Parsons in West Africa—July 4-August 3
Workshops in ceramics and fibers will introduce students to artists and artisans in several Ivory Coast vil­lages, where these crafts can be studied in thar original context A photography curriculum examines tech­niques of documentation and reportage in regions of great natural beauty and cultural diversity The history of African art and architecture and an archaeology curriculum are also ottered
All programs include round trip airfare, accommodations and land transfers Academic credit is available to qualified students For more information, please send the coupon below or call the Office of Special Programs
(212) 741-8975
Parsons School of Des»gn 
Office of Special Programs 66 Fifth Avenue. New York, N Y. 10011
Please send information about:
? Parsons in Paris
? Photography in Paris
? Fashion in Paris
? Architecture & Decorative Arts in Paris
? Architecture & Design in Italy
? Graphic Design in Japan
? Ceramics & Fibers in Japan
? Parsons in West Africa
Name __ 
Address 
City___
seco»
already chosen for Best Female Pop 
Performance, will most likely get the 
half of her matched set for the Female 
Vocal Performance.
In the Male Rock Vocal Performam 
category, Springsteen is a strong contend? 
and could very well walk off the stage wii 
a Grammy here too. However, the heartfe 
Americana of John Cougar Mellencami 
“Pink Houses” could sway the votes 
Academy members. In all possibilii 
Mellencamp will have a statuette to place 
his fireplace mantle.
This leaves both the Pop and Rock Groi 
Vocal Awards. In the Group Pop 
formance Award, look for the Pointer Si 
to bop onto the stage to accept. In then 
category, the competition is much 
Almost any of the nominees could take ii 
but probably the most outstanding vocals 
a group this past year were those of Yes 
90125. No other group but Yes will claim
Vocal Perl
one.
Of course, there are many more majo 
categories, but there is only a small amoui^ 
of space. Good luck in your own predictions 
and may the best performers win!
StateZip10
Correction
In last week’s Tartan in the “Deep 
Purple return as rock’s Perfect 
Strangers” article Rod Evans was 
mistakenly called a guitarist. He did 
vocals.
RESEARCH
Send $2 for catalog 
of over 16,000 topics to 
assist your research e- 
forts. For info., call tw 
tree 1-800*21-5745 jinj- 
_ llnols call 312-922^30®Authors' R»*#«rch, Rm 8<X>K 
S. Dwrborn. Chicago.
RESEARCH ASSOC/A TE POSITION
The Department of Epidemiology, 
Graduate School of Public Health, 
University of Pittsburgh invites ap­
plications for a Research Associate 
position. The position requires an ad­
vanced degree in Statistics, 
knowledge of computer languages, 
systems analysis and statistics 
methods, and experience in data 
analysis of large medical data sets
and computing. The successful can 
didate will be responsible for design 
ing data collection forms and main 
taining data base systems, conduc 
tiong statistical analyses, prepays 
reports, on the statistics j 
methodologies, and interpretation o 
results. The position is available W 
mediately for a duration of ^ 
years. Salary will be commensu 
with experience. Send letter o 
tent, curriculum vitae and the nam 
of three references to: Dr. Kathen 
M. Detre, Department 
Epidemiology, Graduate Scho° \ 
Public Health, University of r \ 
sburgh, Pittsburgh, PA A
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY I'AH’ 
MA TIVE ACTION EMPLOYEP 1

---------------------------------------------------

PAC Standings
"¦ GB Overall
- W&J
Wi Bethany
m CMU
AVi Hiram
5 Thiel
61/2 GCC
61/2 JCU
This Week’s Games ¿ethany 66 Thiel 64
MPg- _____ Sports.
itrong inside defense leads CMU to victory
CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
rtan Sports Editor
Led by strong front line play from Dwayne 
aite and Richard Neff, the CMU Tartans feated the John Carroll Blue Streaks, 
-56, to even their PAC record at 5-5. 
Andy Juhola led the Blue Streaks with 25 ints Waite had 15 points and 15 rebounds 
the best game of his season. Waite stayed 
t of foul trouble (one personal) and led outburst that brought the Tartans from points down early in the game to a four int lead, outscoring JCU 12-1 at one
retch. .
Neff, although he shot just 2-10 from the 
eld, played a quietly strong game, 
lthough at times he looked as if he was not 
volved in the game, he had 11 rebounds, 
,ur assists, two steals, and six points.
The Tartans won the game on defense, 
tting off the JCU inside game featuring 
Harris. Harris was last week’s PAC 
ayer-of-the-week. He had not seen much 
aying time until CMU’s last game with 
U. Lately he has blossomed, scoring career 
ghs of 22 points and 18 rebounds against 
iram last week.
CMU employed a strong 2-3 zone defense 
d a tough man-to-man to force Carroll to 
outside offense. Juhola and leading scorer 
|erb Cunningham were forced to put it up 
rly and often. Juhola was hitting the short 
pers against the zone or when a power
forward was defending him, so coach Larry 
Anderson employed quicker small forwards 
such as John Taormina and George Debski 
to slow him down. Juhola shot 23 times, hit­
ting ten.
Cunningham was watched closely by 
guards David Bart, Rob Brown, and
JCU
Juhola
Cannon
Harris
Cunn’harr
Debeljak
Illig
Combs
Stadtmllr
Berger
Rayl
Wilhelm
Totals
FG*. JCU .365, CMU .365. FT*: JCU .769, CMU . 
Rebounds: JCU 40 (Juhola 11), CMU 44 (Waite 15). 
Assists: JCU 12 (Illig, Debeljak 3 each), CMU 17 
(Stewart 6). Fouled 0«^t: Cannon, Berger. Technical 
Fouls: Bart. Referees: Jim Best wick and Gary Dixon. 
Halftime: CMU 31-25.
swingman Taormina. Cunningham was 
averaging 17.9 points per game, but shot 3-13 
from the floor for only nine points. When 
the Streaks missed, Waite, Neff and Hart 
Coleman (seven rebounds) were ready on the 
boards for the Tartans.
The game seemed over with about five 
minutes to go and CMU leading by eleven, 
but it turned out to be far from over. Car­
roll, led by Juhola, cut the lead to one with 
11 seconds to Dlav and had the ball. But
CMU 58JCU 56
FGFTTP CMUFGFTTP
10-235-525W aite6-103-815
3-70-06Neff2-102-36
2-92-46Coleman3-10 2-48
3-13 3-49T aormina2-94-58
1-20-02Stewart1-51-23
0-20-00Debski2-42-26
0-10-00Bart1-21-23
1-10-02Brown2-25-79
2-30-04
0-00-00
1-20-02
23-63 10-1556Totals19-52 20-3358
CMU 58 W&J 71 W&J 94 Bethany 68 Thiel 82
JCU 56 GCC 61 JCU 77 Hiram 67 GCC 78
-clinched conference title
ld Sciafani (r.
,estling Tourn Page is.
photo by Mike Pilewski
ed second in his weight at the Second Annual “Real Men" 
Full coverage of the tourney plus other Intramural news isj
photo by Mike Kelly
Richard Neff, shown here in an early season game against Mt. Union, had eleven 
rebounds against JCU.
Juhola, who was a hero for the Streaks, turn­
ed out to be the goat. Bringing the ball up, 
Juhola just lost the ball on his own out of 
bounds. CMU’s Michael Stewart was then 
fouled immediately.
The freshman guard from Wilkinsburg 
who sank two free throws to beat Grove Ci­
ty earlier this season, canned the first shot 
to put CMU up by two. But Stewart missed 
the second, and John Carroll came down the 
floor trying to tie up the game.
The Streaks set up a play for their 
freshman range jumpers, hitting just short 
pull-ups off of fast break opportunities. Cun­
ningham was also injured slightly when he 
fell on Brown. Cunningham was called for 
a charging foul. Upon charging, Cun- 
ingham’s lower abdomen hit against Brown’s 
knee, and he had to leave the game.
The Tartans shot poorly, just 37 percent, 
but the Streaks also shot 37 percent. Other 
than Waite, CMU had a very balanced scor­
ing attack. Brown, who had a strong second 
half, finished with nine points, Coleman and 
Taormina each had eight, and Neff and
Debski each scored six.
Coleman was very impressive on one se­
quence at both ends of the floor. Coleman 
saved a rebound to Stewart, then ran the 
floor nicely, receiving a return pass at the 
foul line, dribbling once and deftly dishing 
off to Neff under the hoop.
• • •
Washington and Jefferson College clinched 
the PAC title with a victory against Grove 
City Wednesday night. W & J is 10-1 in the 
PAC with with just one game left for them 
to play. The Presidents lose only one starter 
next year, senior guard John Achille, and 
return their two top scorers and rebounders, 
Tony Torchia and Alan Bradstock . . . CMU 
can clinch a .500 record in the PAC with a 
win tonight at Thiel. The Tomcats are led 
by forward Vic Harp, averaging 23.1 points 
and 8.3 rebounds per game . . . the Tartans 
close out their season Friday night at 8:00 
p.m. against the Bethany Bisons in Skibo 
Gym. WRCT-FM (88.3) will provide radio 
coverage of the game.
Francis sets pool record as 
CMU defeats Hiram, Gannon
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU swimmers celebrated Senior 
Day Saturday with victories over Hiram Col­
lege and Gannon University in a three-way 
dual meet.
Seniors Gina Illig and Mark Flanagan 
were given a pewter mug engraved with their 
names. Head coach Donna Pecman said a 
little about each of the seniors, who have 
both been four-year members of the swim 
team. Illig and Flanagan, both from the 
Pittsburgh area, had their families in 
attendance.
SMHMMINB
“We were all excited for the meet. I was 
excited bacause my family was there,” said 
Illig.
The excitement showed as the Tartans hit 
the water, dominating their apponents. 
CMU defeated Gannon 70 35 and Hiram
70-29.
The individual highlight of the meet
ramp when soDhomore Steve Francis, who
has qualified for the Division III National 
Championships in sprint events, set a pool 
record in the 500-meter freestyle. Francis 
usually does not swim this event, but many 
Tartan swimmers swam different events. “We 
had a little room to play against there 
teams,” said Illig, who along with Flanagan 
were swimming in their last home meet. 
Afterwards, the team gathered with family 
and friends at a reception in Skibo.
Strong performances were put in by Rob 
Summers and Chris Leech, who finished 
one-two in the backstroke. Leech also pull­
ed out a victory in the 400-meter freestyle 
relay with an exhilirating comeback win.
Patty Illig won the 1000-meter-freestyle, 
while Carol Freund took first in the diving 
event, followed by Flanagan.
CMU will now prepare itself for the PAC 
Tournament at W&J February 28-March 2. 
They will go through what Gina Illig called 
“tapering” They will work on form, looking 
to cut a second or two off of their best times 
Last season, the Tartans finished second 
behind Allegheny, which is no longer a

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
Women looking good as PA C tournament awaits
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Will the real Lady Tartans please step 
forward?
The CMU womens basketball team is the 
new show in town, having won three of its 
last five games in the wake of a last place 
season. A team with great potential has 
crawled out of the woodwork, shedding the 
inexperience which has plagued them to 
challenge the more powerful teams in the
ho©ps
According to first year coach Gerri Seidl, 
it was a matter of adjusting to a new group 
of players and a new coach.
“Everyone on the team had to adjust to 
new things,” commented Seidl. “I don’t think 
they believed they could win because they 
had to make these adjustments, and I pro­
bably had to make the greatest adjustment 
of all.”
In the past week, CMU crushed Butler 
Community College while registering what 
is believed to be the highest point total in 
the team’s history, 105 — 81. In a game played 
on Friday, the Tartans were seconds away 
from upsetting second place Washington 
and Jefferson. CMU went on to lose in over­
time by a mere six points, 66 — 60.
“The (Washington and Jefferson) game 
was excellent, but I was a little disappointed 
when we didn’t pull out the win,” remarked 
a pleased Seidl. “The kids really deserve 
credit for the way they played, but I wish 
we could play this way all the time.”
The Tartans stood toe to toe with their op­
ponents throughout the contest, despite the 
fact that three W&J players towered over 
CMU’s tallest player by three inches. Seidl 
used a full court man-to-man press from the 
outset, forcing turnovers which CMU fre­
quently converted into baskets. Nancy 
Dilulio and Joy Braxton played outstanding 
defense while combining for 23 points.
DO YOU 
BELIEVE
.. .today’s technology represents only 
a preview of the possible?
We do too! So, join us in probing the frontiers of science and 
technology with basic and applied research at sophisticated levels. 
We are not probing just a few frontiers. Consider these: laser optics, 
infrared electro-optical systems and fiber optics; microelectronics, 
semiconductors and semicustom IC/hybrid circuits; advanced control 
concepts, signal and image processing, robotics, CAD/CAM; gas 
turbine technology, fluid dynamics, combustion, aeroacoustics; 
materials science; V/STOL technology, aeromechanics, applied 
mechanics; automotive technology; building systems technology; 
manufacturing technology, NDE, industrial lasers; computer science, 
software engineering, artificial intelligence, digital applications and 
operating systems. 
During the remainder of this decade United Technologies plans to 
spend an average of $1 billion annually on R&D. Few other U.S. 
corporations make such substantial investments in their future. 
Think about it!
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES RESEARCH CENTER IS 
COMING ON CAMPUS THURSDAY 
MARCH 14,M 6•HM wt 6Sfm •g Dw wvM TlDcMnMmw pffScM ftH Dm SmwMHvSMw
If you are unable to meet with us, please send details of your 
education and experience to Mr. A. Marcin at United Technologies 
Research Center, Silver Lane, East Hartford, CT 06108.
UNITED
TECHNOLOGIES
RESEARCH
CENTER
Joy Braxton (10) and Maria Bober (54)
With less than a minute to go, CMU was 
up by two points with its most consistent foul 
shooter on the line. Laurie Arendas (17 
points) was unable to convert the front end 
of a one-and-one situation, and W&J quickly 
advanced the ball to tie the score at 54. 
Moments later, Michelle Schlegel in­
tercepted a pass at half court and was ap­
parently fouled in a desperation attempt to 
score. No call was made, however, and the 
game went into overtime.
In overtime, the two teams exchanged 
baskets until W&J reeled off six straight 
points to seal the victory.
CMU’s score of 105 against Butler Com­
munity College on Wednesday was a 
remarkable total, “but we gave up 81 
(points). We were very inconsistent on 
defense, and we always seem to have one 
weak spot. We can’t seem to put together a 
completely solid effort,” remarked Seidl.
The Tartans led throughout the contest, 
taking advantage of a lack of speed on the
line up for the rebound. photo by Eril( Hoi
part of their opponents. Schlegel and Are 
das were high scorers with 26 and 25 
respectively. Most of CMU’s scores came; 
fast break lay-ups, due to the quickness 
Val Sooky and Dilulio, who combined for 
total points.
As the regular season comes to an 
with a league contest against John Carrs 
on Tuesday, everyone is optimistic about li 
team’s chances for success in the PAC tot 
nament. The tournament, held at John Ca 
roll University on Feb. 22-23, is a chance 
avenge the team’s 4 — 11 season record 
quest for the league championship.
According to Seidl, CMU has a chance 
make a good showing in the tournamei 
although the team is basically still 
rebuilding stage.
“I’ve been impressed with the developm 
of our running game, which was almost 
sent before. If we can execute the runna 
game well, we should perform admiraU
32
photo by Er4l
Maria Bober, Michelle Schlegal and Laurie Arendas (1. to r.) were honored by 2 
ing messenger at the game versus Butler CC. Arendas was recently named Aca1 
All-American for the second consecutive year. The three seniors were playing 
final home game.
U.S. Citizenship Required 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
SHROVE TUESDAY —FEBRUARY 19
' PANCAKE LUNCH 
11:30 am—1:30 pm 
$2.00
DONUT MAKING PARTY 
7 pm to ?
ASH WEDNESDAY—FEBRUARY 20
Holy Communion 
Imposition of Ashes 
12 noon and 7 pm
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
(between Craig and Dithridge, 
across from Carnegie Museum)

---------------------------------------------------

February 19, 1985—The Tartan—Page 17
The 
umber 
Sheet
CMU Men’s Basketball Stats
ream
IM Standings 
MAJORS 
TEAM A
TO
igolos
ika
ruise Brothers 
emen
E
ying Turtles
TEAM B
ission II 
K To Start 
ta
¦_ Team 
I
JPA
INTERMEDIATE 
TEAM A
SIA White Knights 
:lta Alpha Lambda 
leta Xi-B 
el City Cafe 
isarchs 
0 Hogs
istined Truculents
TEAM B
th Grads 
dans Angels 
0 Pledges 
ret Squirrels 
ndlelight Lounge 
ta’s Wooglin 5 
P
IA) The Technique
TEAM C:wers
-A
ie Old Men 
ib Squad 
jarlie the Jew 
0 Unlisted 
apnen 
ise
TEAM Dwalkers 
generates 
rning Machine 
Significient 
a-B
Kappa Theta 
|°n Unit Normal 0 Tide
6-1
3-1
4-2 
3-4
2-4 
1-4 
0-6
6-0
5-1
3-1
4-3 
1-5 
0-4
3-1
3-1 
2-1 
2-1 
2-3
1-3
0-3
5-0
2-0
4-1 
2-1
2-3
1-4 
1-4
0-4
5-0 
4-0 
4-1
3-1
1-2 
1-4 
1-4
0-7
4-0 
4-1 
3-1 
3-2
1-2 
1-3 
0-3 
0-4
George Dehski129.4112134.61871/3.654-110291121276.4
Dwayne Waite2053121.438IS.3542Q132/6 653-432314161216.1
_Hart Coleman20852104ft*316647ft171/8.657-ft34841152(111ft.1
Robert Brown16316746324337273(1/1 945-43241116865 4
-Michael Stewart2055155.35518266Q231/1.63.3-ft42
HH[MuHH
51
---a---
ft131286.4
John Taormina20lftfttaar _
David Bart19367548ft1425.56ft42/2.226-ft3ft27ft18864.5
JRichard Neff2059146.404366ft.6(1(1110/5.539-022386141547.7
Tom Franklin18517.2041423.60928/1.634-ft5523115241.3
Steve Jochnau113333ftft.ftftft2/2.(11-ft12ftft22.ft
David Smith100.000ftft.ftftft2/2.ftft-ftftftftft(1ft.ft
John lk-n.de;2ftft00ftft1.ftftft2/1. ft3-0ft1ft1ftft.ft
Luke Demo10T.ftftft221 ftftft1/1 ftft-ftft2ftft22.ft
Rogner De Vries114¿50L_Û__.JM0/0- û=û___JL--JL-ft_û_22.0
CMU
OPP.
20 491 1,157 .424 252 417 .604 836/41.8 410-10 237 356 67 141 1234 61.7
20 569 1,245 .457 282 414 .681 803/40.2 399-12 248 289 35 168 1420 71.0
TEAM E
TEAM F
MINORS
The Doctors 
Pyraliers
Beta’s “Das Boot”
CIA
Kappa Sigma-A 
Metal-Orgy 
Over 200 Lbs.
MI Bio
The Franchise 
Penetrators 
Old Millworkers 
Theta Xi 
Cheysa 
Mothership 
SAE
Pilam 
Buster Highmen 
Skid Row
Misfits SANTANA (S)
Warm Leatherette
SAE-C
Men Without Talent 
N.U.N.
I Tappa Kegga 
Hampshire Hall 
Kappa Sig-H 
DU B
VLS Intellectuals 
Rimmers 
Scobell 
Boss-Doherty
Fletchers 
Jamalots 
DTD
History Grads 
Dudes
AF ROTC 1 
11, 23 D 
Bloody Tourists 
Mungmen 
Dynamic Rams 
Zoo 
ACO
Inner Party 
Lost Cause 
AF ROTC 2 
Future Professors
PATERA (P)
VALENTINE (V)
MURACO (M)
5-1
4-1
3-1
3-2
3-2
2-4
1-5
0-5
4-1
3-1
2-1 
3-2
3-2
1-4
0-5
5-0
4-1
2-1
1-2 
1-2
1-3
0-3 
0-2 
4-0 
4-0 
3-1
2-1
2-3
1-3 
0-3
0-5
31
2-1 
2-1
3-2
2-3
1-2 
0-2
0-3
3-0 
3-1 
3-1 
2-2 
2-3
1-3 
1-3 
1-3
ULL TUITION- 
{SCHOLARSHIPS
Available Now FromCMU ARMY ROTC 
FOR
Sophomores and Freshmen* 
J(Two Year) (Three Year)
»plication: By 22 February 
¦r a two-year scholarship. By 
i April for a three-year 
¡¡Warship. No obligation in- 
lrred by applying. Scholarship 
parts with fall semester.
igibility; 2.5 or better in re­ared disciplines. Full-time stu- nt- Be less than 25 years of e at graduation. Current par­tition not required.
Selection: Based primarily on evaluation of academic achieve­ment, leadership potential and degree of success in college. CMU historical record is that 70% of applicants are recipients.
Benefits: Pays all tuition costs, fees, supplies, and books and provides SI00 per month in school financial assistance (for up to 10 months each year the scholarship is in effect).
For further information, con­tact Captain Perry Colvin, Carnegie-Mellon University at (412) 578-2205 or visit our of­fice at Margaret Morrison Hall, 2nd basement
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! 
JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH 
PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST.
EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! 
FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!
More than 300,000 Americans Japan, Africa, The South
— not including members of 
the armed services — are 
now living overseas. These 
people are engaged in nearly 
every possible activi­
ty...construction, engineer­
ing, sales, transportation, 
secretarial work, accoun­
ting, manufacturing, oil 
refining, teaching, nursing, 
government, etc.-etc. And 
many are earning $2,000 to 
$5,000 per month...or more!
To allow you the op­
portunity to apply for 
overseas employment, we 
have researched and compil­
ed a new and exciting direc­
tory on overseas employ­
ment. Here is just a sample 
of what our International Employment Directory 
covers.
(1). Our International Employment Directory lists 
dozens of cruise ship com­
panies, both on the east and 
west coast. You will be told 
what type of positions the 
cruise ship companies hire, 
such as deck hands, 
restaurant help, cooks, 
bartenders, just to name a 
few. You will also receive 
several Employment Ap­
plication Forms that you 
may send directly to the 
companies you would like to 
work for.
(2). Firms and organiza­
tions employing all types of 
personnel in Australia,
Pacific, The Far East, South 
America...nearly every part 
of the free world!
(3). Companies and 
Government agencies 
employing personnel in near­
ly every occupation, ‘from 
the unskilled laborer to the 
college trained professional 
man or woman.
(4). Firms and organiza­
tions engaged in foreign con­
struction projects, manufac­
turing, mining, oil refining, 
engineering, sales, services, 
teaching, etc., etc.
(5). How and where to ap­
ply for overseas Government 
jobs.
(6). Information about 
summer jobs.
(7). You will receive our 
Employment Opportunity 
Digest...jam-packed with in­
formation about current job 
opportunities. Special sec­
tions features news of 
overseas construction pro­
jects, executive positions 
and teaching opportunities.90 DDy MtmMy ,Dck r•DHDmwMM
Our International Employ­ment Directory is sent to you 
with this guarantee. If for 
any reason you do not obtain 
overseas employment or you 
are not satisfied with the job 
offers...simply return our Directory within 90 days and 
we’ll refund your money pro 
mptly...no questions asked.
ORDER FORM
International Employment Directory 
131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 
Centralia, WA 98531
Please send me a copy of your International Employment 
Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 
days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return 
your Directory for an immed ¡te refund. On that basis I’m 
enclosing $20.00 cash.... check. .. or money order.. . for your 
Directory.
NAME
ADDRESS
please print
CITY
. ..... APT 0
STATE
International Employment Directory 1984
ZIP

---------------------------------------------------

Nashua
Double sided, 
double density, 
soft-sectored 
with hub ring
Page 18—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
IM REPORT: Wrestling and basketball big new:
Gabriel, who scored 22 points. ATO trailed 
by 12 at one point, but cut the lead to one 
late in the game. They never led, however. 
Mission is now 6-0, ATO 6-1, leading their 
respective divisions.
DARTS
In the finals of the darts championship, 
PiLam-A defeated Theta Xi-A.
NOTES
Some teams still have not paid their bowl­
ing fees. Get your checks to Strand Alleys im­
mediately.
DEADLINE—FEB. 21 
Thursday is a major roster deadline day. 
Rosters are due for handball (commissioner 
E.J. Birdy, x2214), water basketball (Austin 
Mayer, 682-3612), individual chess (Ed 
Klehr, 681-4313). call pool (Rob Fleischman, 
687-1465), co-rec badminton, basketball foul 
shooting, and co-rec tables tennis. Thursday 
is also the date of the next important board 
meeting, at 2:00 in the I.M. office. 
RADIO EVENT 
WRCT s Sportsline show will highlight IM 
sports this week. Prospective guests include 
IM president Rob Fleischman and IM direc­
tor Earl J. Birdy. Air time is Thursday night 
from 8:30-9:00 pm.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
and JOE W. KUEFLER
Special to the Tàrtan
WRESTLING
The “Real Man” Wrestling tournament 
was a great improvement over last year. The 
number of wrestlers, wrestling caliber, and 
tournament organization were all at a higher 
level than last year.
This year’s 39 wrestlers were a 69 percent 
improvement over last year’s 24. The lower 
weight classes were well populated, but the 
upper weights were disappointing. There 
seems to be a correlation between weight 
and the ability to out of bed on a Saturday 
morning.
Team scores are now being computed and 
will be posted on the IM board in the gym 
next week and in the next Tartan issue.
Thanks go to E.J. Birdy, Bob Earley and 
all those who made the tourney a success. 
BASKETBALL 
It was a battle of the undefeated powers, 
The Mission II against the ATO Wolfpack. 
The Mission, a re vamped version of last 
year’s champions, defeated ATO by three, 
led by former varsity leading scorer Greg
Second Annual Real Man Wrestling Results
WT. Champion Score Second135 E. Alieva (GDI) 7-5 G Lamb (GDI)148 J. Carfagna (GDI) pin-2:I5 R. Sclafoni (Pika)158 C. Grondwalski (ATO) pin-1:15 S. Hoysan (SN)165 T. Gillmore (GDI) pin-4:10 F. Deleon (Pika)172 R. Ferrerò (Pika) pin D. Lafyatis (GDI)182 T. Frost (Beta) default J. McNamara (SAE)195 G. Marchionna (DU) pin J. McDonald (Pika)HVY R. Butts (Beta) pin-2:58 V. Lynn (Float)
Third place finishers: 135 — J. Pinard, 148 — M, Ross, 158 — P. Viti, 165 — W. Gordon, 172 — P. Peccora, 182 — D. Powell.
West Virginia Wesleyan spoils CAfll 
bid for indoor soccer tourney title
CMU-B, 3-0-1 in round robin play, fjjj 
ed first in their, bracket, just nipp 
Bethany-B on points 22-21. The Tart 
then defeated Robert Morris 4-1 on goals 
Alex Tomlinson, Ted Anderer, Kevin Ja 
and Doug Anderson. Anderson scored! 
goals in the regular tournament games i 
eluding four against Frostburg State inai 
shutout.
The B team went on to defeat Slippi 
Rock 1-0 on a goal by Tomlinson. That 
them into the final game against W 
Wesleyan. Anderson, Tomlinson and Chaj 
Lockhead each scored a goal for the Tart] 
but it was not enough. Lockhead also sea 
five goals in the preliminary games.
CMU-A also lost to W.V.W. in the! 
round of the playoffs, 3-1, after compii 
a 2-1-1 preliminary record. Neal Frink sc J 
the lone goal for the Tartans. j
By ANGELA BELLISARIO
Special to The Tartan
Indoor soccer turned into an all day event 
Saturday as CMU hosted its 1985 soccer 
tourney. 38 twenty minute games were 
played, and the tourney ended with West 
Virginia Wesleyan defeating the CMU-B en­
try 5-3 in the final game.
DSDD48TPI - soft sector
$¦1495Box of 10
DSDD certified diskette may be used where SSSD, SSDD or DSSD is called for.Fifteen teams were competing, including 
two from CMU and Bethany. They are 
broken down into three five team brackets. 
The top two teams in each bracket made it 
to the playoff round, plus two wild card 
teams. Both of CMU’s teams made the 
playoff round.MasterCard
tf any Nashua 
diskette fails 
to perform 
satisfactorily within 
5 years of purchase, 
simply return to 
Nashua for free 
replacement.
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
5482 William Penn Hwy 
Pittsburgh, PA 15235 
(412) 824-3564
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)COLOR
W? never met a h we didn't like
self or herself after the haircut.
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting - 
but a perfect representation 0 
who you want to be.
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for. . .
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many hair­
cutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great ''X'', we look at the 
whole head as well as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures him-
LEARN ... AND EARN MORE THAN 
$900 A MONTH
The Air Force College Senior Engineer Pro­
gram is open to students in selected engineer­
ing disciplines. If you qualify for the program, 
you’ll receive Air Force pay and allowances 
while you complete your final year.NO APPOINT^1Mon, Tues, Wed 10—7 
Thurs, Fri 10—9 
Sat 9—6If you’re an engineering junior, senior or 
graduate student, your Air Force recruiter can 
give you the details. Contact:
Captain Van Jura 
at 644*2705
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

yfU fencers fare well in recent 
am and individual tournaments
MAURA A. SAVINI
n Staffwriter
The CMU fencing team participated in tournaments recently and made ad- 
rahle showings in each.
FENC/NG
he first tournament was a quad meet; 
U fenced against Cleveland State Univer- 
(Division I), California University of 
nsylvania (Division II), and Allegheny 
lege (Division III —club), 
he second tournament was the annual 
U hosted fencing tournament. Sixty-
eight students participated, representing 
Penn State University (Fayette Campus), 
Allegheny College, Indiana University of 
Pa., California University at Pa., and CMU.
In the quad meet, CMU fencers lost to 
CSU, 3-1, but defeated Allegheny, 4-0, and 
Cal St., 2(20)-2(16).
Against CSU, the men’s foil squad was the 
only group to win. The men’s foil and sabre 
teams prevailed over Cal St., and CMU took 
all four weapons from Allegheny.
In the annual CMU tournament, CMU 
fencers placed in three of four classes. Kevin 
Steele took first place in the novice men’s 
division, while Liz Mushot took second in 
the novice women’s division. In the in­
termediate men’s division, Bob Wickanowski 
captured third place.
Unibedway
CMU fencers were very successful in recent tourneys.
photo by Mike Pilewski
Launch hour. Throttles are at full power as a supersonic roar sweeps across the flight deck. And you’re the pilot.The catapult fires and G forces slam you back into your seat. Sec­onds later, you’re punching a hole in the clouds and looking good.Nothing beats the excitement of
Navy flying. And no other job can match the kind of manage­ment responsibility you get so quickly in the Navy.The rewards are there, too. Around-the-world travel oppor­tunities with a great starting salary of $19,200. As much as $33,600 after four years with
promotions and pay increases.Take off for tomorrow in the Navy. With top-level training to help you build technical and managerial skills you'll use for a lifetime. Don’t just settle into a job; launch a' career. See your Naw Recruiter or 
CALL 800-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The students' 
campus pub
The plans for a student pub reveal the most 
organized, innovative student effort to serve this cam­
pus’ social needs in years.
Judging from the Pub Committee’s efforts to put 
together a menu, entertainment, and a pleasant at­
mosphere, along with its enthusiastic solicitation of 
campus-wide input, it is obvious that the individuals 
involved in the project aspire to create something 
more than a ‘teen juice bar.’ Their efforts should be 
commended.
The students on the Pub Committee are not the 
only ones who see a student pub as an important ad­
dition to the campus environment. During a recent 
interview, President Cyert, while discussing CMU’s 
budget priorities, said that the administration is 
prepared to support the pub substantially, so that 
students would not consider their needs to be ignored. 
In fact, not a single party [.sic] in the CMU community 
has yet expressed disapproval of the pub plans, to our 
knowledge.
CMU needs a student “night spot.” We wonder 
whether or not the students came in droves only 
because of the promise of free food, but that may only 
have been because there still isn’t enough in the 
Highlander Room to merit the title of “pub”. Cur­
rently the needs of our gregarious students to gather 
and talk are being served in part by the first floor of 
the Hunt Library, much to the annoyance of those 
who actually go there to read. Why? It’s the only place 
on campus with squashy chairs and real curtains — 
in short, one of the few places which right now can 
truly be called a “lounge”. Clearly the area fills a need 
for creature comforts not found in the terminal rooms, 
the bland, carpetless classrooms of Baker Hall, or the 
hard and hollow surfaces of Skibo Grey Matter.
But the big question is: Do we need a pub with 
alcohol? Is the availability of beer and wine necessary 
to the success of a student lounge? Without delving 
too deeply into the social or cultural implications of 
the need to consume alcohol to enjoy one’s self, we 
note that the most prevalent complaint surrounding 
the pub is that the committee has yet to obtain a li­
quor license. We also doubt that any license will be 
obtained before next semester, because of the difficul­
ty with getting such a license from the state of 
Pennsylvania.
Whether or not a license will be obtained remains 
to be seen, and we do not wish to argue its pros and 
cons. It would be a shame, however, if the need for 
alcohol drowns the enthusiasm over something much 
more important: that we will have “our student 
space,” as A Phi O President Nick Gianaris called it, 
with non-UDS food, entertainment of our choice, and 
lighting and atmosphere which is pleasant instead of 
garish.
Many factors shape our lives at CMU over which 
we have such little control: tuition hikes, housing lot­
teries, lab classes ad nauseum, the SEI. The campus 
pub is not one of those factors. If everyone takes ad­
vantage of this rare situation, it could result not only 
in the realization of a good place for students to 
gather, but in the realization that students can get 
more resources allocated to their needs if they just 
express their feelings through the proper channels.
We encourage every student to participate in the 
construction of the pub, no matter how small the con­
tribution; in that way, the Highlander Room will truly 
become a student pub.
If you would like to add your assistance to the Pub Committee’s efforts, be sure to attend a general meeting open to everyone this Wednesday at 8:30 pm in the Highlander Room, or call Bob Fishei at 682-7508.
ArA
Sure I’d like to go, but that fence is in the way.”
Complaint Dept, cuts hours
By Christopher D. Lewis
Instead of complaining about the lack of com­
plaints, the Dept, is cutting its hours. Keep those 
complaints coming, but the column will be seen 
about every three-four weeks, unless I am swamped 
with complaints.
I thought I might be learning that people think 
CMU is perfect, but I saw the doctor for my condi­
tion and he assured me everything was indeed not 
all right. I was still not assured until I got a letter 
from Mona Smith, who is employed in the CMU 
Security department. Mona says she gets no respect, 
and tells us why.Letters:
Misquoting the Bibie on the Hill
“Why, yesterday as preventive medicine 11 
laxative to keep things running. . .Today I cau| 
stomach virus that gave me diarrhea.”
To Mona, who may just win the complaint-of j 
year award, we award a Rodney Dangerfield \ 
and a bottle of Kaopectate, and a roll of Chai 
I hope you can still run the morning shuttle, 1 
To those who have complaints about teachen j 
your beefs to Ted Fenton. Fenton runs teai 
workshops, has written a teacher’s handbook, | 
runs the teaching center. If you think a memtx
continued on |
Editor:
This letter is written to any in 
the campus community who are 
concerned about the rather ab­
surd pamphlets distributed 
Thursday the 14th in the Ham- 
merschlag, Donner, Welch, and 
Scobell residence halls last week. 
It is to reassure anyone concern­
ed that none of the campus Chris­
tian organizations (for example, 
Shadyside Christian Fellowship, 
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship) 
were involved in their distribu­
tion. The pamphlets made many 
false and unsubstantiated accusa­
tions against the Vatican in an in­
sensitive manner. Because the ac­
cusations were so outrageous, 
some found it humorous, while 
others were outraged at its 
ilanderous content. Apparently 
someone from the Alamo 
organization illegally distributed 
the pamphlets underneath doors 
in the aforementioned residency 
halls.
Several quotations from the Bi­
ble were used in the pamphlet to 
support the accusations against 
the Vatican. They were out of
context and of such a general 
nature as to belie their basis as 
proof. It is this unfortunate blen­
ding of truth (the Bible) with 
falsehood (the accusations) which 
makes the pamphlet dangerous. 
Because the Bible is considered by 
many as authoritative, its content 
has been abused throughout 
history by those who wish to 
manipulate others or take pride 
in their own theories. Common to 
the cults and political rulers who 
have used the Bible to their own 
gain is taking verses out of con­
text to support a point. As a 
Christian, I sincerely believe the 
Bible contains the inspired words 
of God and leads to the Truth 
when taken in context. It is un­
fortunate when men twist the 
truth for their own gain, but this 
makes it no loss true. Paul in fact 
predicts this will happen to the 
church in Ephesus when in Acts 
20:30, he says, “Even from your 
own number men will arise and 
distort the truth in order to draw 
disciples away after them. So be 
on your guard!”
This pamphlet on the Vatican
is clearly an example of 
the truth and is thei 
nounced by Inter-Varsity 
tian Fellowship. I wrotfl 
previous paragraph, thoi 
make it clear that we bell 
Biblical quotes within the 
phlet to be absolutely true 
taken in the context 
message of the Bible. W 
said concerning Christ 
only way to salvation (dW 
from the power and effeCti 
so one can live for God n 
with Him after death) 
believe as true. This, ho'
no means substantiates 
the document, and ourf 
in fact contains Christians 
tend both Protestant and 
churches. We encourage 
the Bible as a book and 
examining it as opp°se 
hearing out of context <1 
eluding mine) which c*® 
to distort theBibH
meaning.
^

---------------------------------------------------

February 19, 1985—The Tartan—Page 21
etterman—not just any talk-show host
Late night TV. Up until recently, when 
ought of late night television, I thought 
Johnny Carson, kung fu, Oral Roberts- 
faith healers, “Love, American Style,” 
^ional wrestling, and Japanese monster 
yjes with English voice-overs so bad it 
Iced like everyone was a lousy ventrilo- 
t Now my life is changed! I have found 
ultimate late-night show—the show that 
s all other late-night television to shame. 
I am, of course, referring to the “Late 
ght with David Letterman” show. Since 
81, this former weatherman from Ball 
te University in Indiana has graced your 
n with his ingenious wit, bizarre feature 
ries, and the ever present mile-wide gap 
een his two front teeth. Where else but 
“Late Night” could you meet Larry 
ud” Melman, the 5’3”, 195 lb. correspon- 
t who speaks to you behind eight-inch- 
ck, horn rimmed glasses about the evils 
skin cancer on the beaches of Florida? 
ere else but “Late Night” could you see 
Shaeffer, ex of the Blues Brothers, lead 
e World’s Most Dangerous Band” 
ough hit after mind-bending hit? And it 
sn’t stop there. For your viewing 
asure, the “Late Night” cast and crew 
bring you Stupid Pet Tricks, Stupid 
pie Tricks, Viewer Mail, The Man on 
Street, Brushes with the Law, Call-In 
s, and, my personal favorite, The Man 
er the Seats.
s you might have guessed, the “Late 
ht” show is a virtual potpourri of com- 
. However, in keeping with the standard 
'night talk show fare, there are also 
ts aplenty. Who could ever forget Dr. 
h Westheimer, author of Good Sex talk- 
about some of the more creative uses for 
garden vegetables? Or Ted Koppel 
BC News doing his impressions of 
ard Nixon, Henry Kissinger, andjiin- 
Carter? Or David Lee Roth of Van 
n explaining the difference between be- 
“Big Hot Dog” and a “little weanie?” 
e infamous “Late Night” battle the late 
y Kaufman (the self-proclaimed “King 
ross-Gender Wrestling”) and profes- 
1 wrestler Jerry Lawler? One finds that
VIEWPOINT: Marc Phillips
"he Letterman show exists mainly to show 
us all just how silly life really can be. In that 
respect, it may not only humor us, but also 
might serve as a frequent “coping device” 
to sooth and relax those of us who may be 
taking life a little too seriously. After a ses­
sion where Dave dons a suit made entirely 
of Velcro and sticks himself to a wall, com­
plaints about your EE lab, the upcoming 
drama production, foreign T.A.’s, Ronald 
Reagan, or Joan Collins just don’t cut it.
So, all you overworked students, there is 
hope! The next time you’re sick and tired
of studying, bad weather, Capri’s “leather 
crust” pizza, the staggering federal deficit, 
that zit that just won’t go away, or just plain 
life in general, bide your time until the clock 
strikes 12:30 and tune in. You will be treated 
to an evening of comedy hosted by David 
Letterman, “a man with a song in his heart 
and a hockey puck in his face,” and maybe, 
just maybe, it will put your mind at ease and 
make you happy again.
Happy viewing!
Marc Phillips is a freshman in Mechanical 
Engineering.
While the aforementioned features of 
“Late Night” have pleased many an au­
dience, the author has neglected several 
which stand out even more. “Dropping 
Things Off a Five-Story Building” has been 
one of David Letterman's most popular 
regular features, along with the occasional 
reappearance of a man who screams that 
Letterman is part of a huge Conspiracy. 
And who can forget the recent show during 
which Letterman donned breathing gear 
and a suit with 3400 tablets of Alka-Seltzer, 
and was lifted by a crane into a 900-gallon 
vat of water? Last Thursday night, in fact, 
he wore a suit covered from neck to foot with 
sponges and weighed in at 190 pounds; 
when the crane lifted him out again, he tip­
ped the scale at over 500 pounds! Surely 
these are the acts of which legends are 
made? —Editor
Viewpoint is a guest column written by 
a different member of the CMU communi­
ty every week. To submit an article for con­
sideration as a Viewpoint, send it typed and 
double-spaced to: Editor, The Tartan, 
Skibo 103, CMU, Pittsburgh 15213. 
Deadline is Friday at 5:00 pm for the next 
Tuesday’s paper. No manuscripts can be 
returned.
Complaint Department cuts hours
continued from page 20
the faculty is steering you wrong, or not at 
all, take it to Ted.
These Valentine sales of carnations and 
candy and stuffed animals are a very nice 
thing, but they are not complete. These ser­
vices should extend past the campus hous­
ing to off-campus university housing. If all 
this work is being done, what’s a couple of 
shuttle trips to make many more students 
happy. This goes for tuck-ins and mistletoe 
cards, too. A Phi O is a wonderful service 
organization, but they should serve all of the 
CMU community, not just those of us within 
spitting distance.
Why does the week always have to start 
off with Monday morning? Just once, I’d like
to wake up after a weekend and have it be 
Friday afternoon at 3:30. At least this week 
I get a little break. It’ll be Tuesday morning.
“Just once, Fd like to 
wake up after a 
weekend and have it 
be Friday afternoon 
at 3:30. ”
I found out why I was having problems 
studying what I had previously read. Some­
one sold me a black highlighter I don’t get
¦O.S.: Central America
any respect either, Mona.
This one may compete for complaint-of- 
the-decade. Joe Hasper pointed out that 
“beer distributors stop home delivery after 
6:00 pm. Who needs beer before that?!” Joe 
then tells me that you can’t get a flight to 
Charlotteville, Virginia, after 8:00 pm., but 
you can fly to Newark, New Jersey at 3:00 
am. Joe asks, “Does this seem like good 
airline policy? Do you want to go to Newark 
at 3:00 am.?” Joe, I don’t want to be in 
Newark in broad daylight, but a night in 
Charlotteville doesn’t exactly sound like in­
credible excitement.
I’m running out of time and space, so I 
think 111 go complain to someone. Until next 
time, have an annoying day!
Christopher D. Lewis is a sophomore major­
ing in Professional Writing and is The Tar­
tan’s Sports Editor.
ene Banares-Alcantara, Richard 
ath, Carlos Zozaya-Gorostiza
^roughout Latin America, struggles are 
rring between established governments 
insurgent forces. Despite widely rang­
ing opinions on the causes of 
these insurgent movements and 
their eventual goals, it is 
generally agreed that their ex- 
e constitutes an important issue. Opi- 
vary from the belief that the struggles 
¡°lelV a result of Soviet-Cuban expan- 
|m t0 belief that they are purely in- 
| titles against United States-backed )r>tarian regimes.
aJ°r reason why there is such a range 
wpoints is the scarcity of information 
s country, and the fact that much of 
** available is strongly biased. It is im- 
P e for one to be aware that news is in- 
e °r biased unless competing stories 
ard. We hope, in this column, to ex 
e reader to news stories on Central 
Ca which he may not be aware of, and 
a dialogue which will 
ness the situation.
^e.ls Substantial evidence of a cam- J|lng waged in El Salvador which has 
widely reported in this country: the 
8 °f c ivilian5 by the Salvadorean Air 
84 e Christian Science Monitor [April
prce StateS l^e Salvadoreanls using incendiary bombs against
improve
the civilian population...” and quotes a 
soldief as saying “. . . usually we drop incen­
diary bombs before we begin opera­
tions ... by the time we enter to the area, the 
land has been burned over and the subver­
sives are pretty well toasted.”
Residents of villages which have alleged­
ly been bombed have described the effects 
of the bombs used—their description fits 
bombs such as 250-pound “Iron” bombs, 
anti-personnel fragmentation bombs, and 
napalm and white-phosphorous incendiary 
bombs. These peasants are uneducated and 
would have no way, aside from direct ex­
perience, of gaining such knowledge. In the 
words of a refugee from the town of 
Guadalupe, “At first the Air Force dropped 
bombs that knocked down trees and houses, 
killed people, and made a three-meter 
crater. Then they began to drop bombs that 
exploded before hitting the ground and 
others that made craters eight meters deep 
to kill us as we hid in our shelters. Now they 
use the worst bomb of all —the flaming li­
quid.”
The bombs are being dropped by the 
Salvadorean Air Force. However, U. S. 
surveillance planes based in Honduras, 
which regularly fly over El Salvador, are 
claimed to identify the targets. These planes 
fly at night using infra-red sensors and are 
unable to distinguish between military and 
civilian groups. In addition, U.S. pilots may 
at times accompany the Salvadoreans. The
New York Times [April 12, 1984] stated, 
paraphrasing the statement of a United 
States military official, that North 
“American pilots were involved in combat 
situations approximately once or twice a 
month during 1983. He said that, to his 
knowledge, the flights were still being car­
ried out.”
Because of the complexity of this situa­
tion, it cannot be adequately covered in a 
single column. There, we hope to follow this 
with a series of articles in which we will at­
tempt to awaken interest in the conflicts in 
Central America. We hope that through 
dialogue with the readers of this column a 
better understanding of the situation will 
evolve.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of th( 
opinion section, and are the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are usually on The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone 
number for verification. Names xvill be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
m
Editor-in-Chief ...................Stephen Volan
Managing Editor.................Mike Pilewski
Business Manager .. John Friedmann
News Editor.............................Karen Gray
Features Editor........................Ric Medrow
Entertainment Editor............... Al Datri
Sports Editor ... Christopher D. Lewis
Photography Editor___Mike Pilewski
Acme Editor ........................Mohan Embar
Art Manager..........Michael A. Sussman
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager _____Jill Clelland
Asst. Business Mgr. ... John Lumpkin
Asst. News Editor............Jennifer Even
Asst. Photo Editor...................Dan Pellish
Asst. Art Mgr...........................Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen, Neil 
Greenblum
Production Staff: John Blanck, Dennis 
Cohen, Matt Davies, George Rtzmaurice, 
Don Gamble, Chris Telfer 
Art Staff: Burton Morris, Joe Tomko, Jim 
Yoorhees, Rob Yaffe
Copyright & 1985 by The Tartan The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 
50, (412) 578 2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, (412) 
578 2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578 2113. Mailing ad 
dress: Skibo 103, Carnegie Mellon University. Pitts­
burgh PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee. Ail rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—February 19, 1985
The Core program: a rationale for academic reform
continued from page 9
another is conducive to acquiring that agility 
of mind and mobility in skills so vital to one’s 
intellectual development. In this context, 
the case for a university-wide core at CMU 
rests on its potential in helping various con­
stituencies on this campus see the common 
conceptual concerns and grounding in 
methods that link college-specific educa­
tional needs and disparate research interests.
“Selling a university-wide core to 
undergraduates will not be easy. Many claim 
that it is unfair and counterproductive to 
burdent this group with an additional set of 
requirements that will surely distract them 
from getting a good job. Ultimately, we 
shall win over our undergraduates only if we
persuade them of the value of intellectual 
breadth and curiosity. Students must 
recognize that increasing their levels of com­
petence in composition, logic, and data 
manipulation are transferable skills that 
they need now and will use for the rest of 
their lives. An ability to write well, exposure 
to multiple uses of the computer as a learn­
ing tool, and the practice gained in making 
connections among various fields of inquiry 
and modes of tackling problems will serve 
them well throughout their training here 
and elsewhere. Similarly, requiring all 
students to fulfill some basic requirements 
underscores the fact that it is no less impor­
tant for H&SS sophomores to acquire a 
lasting appreciation for the impact of
DEBRA ABELL MAUA dermatologist
•student discount available 
• easily accessible by bus from CMU
239 Fourth Ave., Suite 217, Downtown MasterCard, Visa accepted281-4770Call appointment
science and technology on their professional 
and personal development than it is for their 
peers in other colleges to delve into the social 
and normative foundations of the modern 
world.
Indeed, a university core may well func­
tion to counterbalance the impulse to nar- 
ow interests, limit options and accelerate 
one’s progress through college. A general- 
education program affords room for ex­
perimentation, for trying out ideas in 
discrete stages of “unforced intellectual 
maturing.” It should broaden students’ in­
tellectual horizons as it nurtures a deeper 
appreciation for their place in a complex, 
highly interdependent world in which not 
everyone shares the same values and 
priorities. Ideally, the core will encourage 
undergraduates to want to acquire the abili­
ty to analyze and synthesize complex “bits” 
of information in order to appreciate the 
design of the universe in its microscopic and 
cosmic realms or any plateau in between.
The advantages of a “core curriculum” to 
the faculty are equally manifest. The in­
sularity of departments, all preocupied with 
their own parochial problems, often im­
pedes efforts to build links across different
Grumman Data Systems Corporation
Computer Science, Engineering 
and Math Graduates
CAMPUS INTERVIEWSTUESDAY, MARCH 5,1985
Grumman Data Systems Corporation, a national company headquartered on Long 
Island, New York, integrates softv -e and hardware into custom solutions for 
managing information. We are a systems company providing customers with a full 
line of support services including design, development, installation, integration, 
operation and maintenance. As a leader in the information sciences industry, we offer 
excellent career opportunities for Computer Science; Engineering or Math 
graduates (with a Computer Science minor) or equivalent course work. At the entry 
level, you may become involved with challenging assignments in:
• Hardware and Software Engineering
• Systems Development
• Telecommunications
• Software Design and Development
Grumman Data Systems works with a wide variety of software languages and 
operating systems. We are involved with advanced manufacturing technologies, 
mathematical modeling, supercomputers, telecommunications, graphics and 
simulation technology. The company sponsors research and development 
laboratories in Ada software development, machine intelligence, graphics and fault 
tolerance systems. With one of the most extensive computer inventories in the nation, 
we provide professinal growth opportunities for the recent graduate through formal 
and on-the-job training.
Find out more about career possibilities with a company that’s at the forefront of the 
software and systems explosion. Meet with our representatives when we visit 
Camegie-Mellon, Tuesday, March 5. Register for an interview at the Career 
Services and Placement Office now.
If you are unable to meet with us when we re on campus, please forward your resume 
to: Mr. Frank Mandicott, College Relations Dept.,
GRUMMAN DATA SYSTEMS CORPORATION
20 Crossways Park North 
Woodbury, NY 11797
rtfmjinAjiTL—nn—rum.CUSTOM SOLUTIONSlor Managing Information
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citozenshf» Required
GRUMMAN
fields of inquiry. Insisting upon sustaid 
debate over the underlying principles th 
animate our new university core on intel] 
tual grounds, we hope, will stimulate! 
search for unity among diversity in thj 
ing about the design of knowledge. 
university-wide set of requirements in p]a 
moreover, instructors in upper-div 
courses can be confident that all stude« 
they teach have had at least an initial 
posure to a certain set of skills that can ( 
should) be reinforced at each stage of 
educational process. Beyond the advant 
of “vertical integration” of material are I 
possibilities for more explicit “horizontal« 
tegration” of ideas and skills encounte: 
across campus. Many existing logistical; 
conceptual problems associated with a i 
nuinely interdisciplinary approach to i 
pursuit of knowledge can be reduced as c 
leagues and students share a sufficient! 
large vocabulary and tools to facilitate t 
application of general principles, con 
strategies and analogies in different 
fluid contexts.
What this suggests, in turn, is that i 
most important feature of a comprehen 
university core may be that if fosters a coi 
munity wherein social activity need not| 
divorced from intellectual endeavors 
Rather than viewing ourselves as memh 
of six balkan republics ,that happen to tied 
the same heating and plumbing system, j 
might more clearly see broader conci 
that we share. (Even though professors| 
GSIA and SUPA presently have le 
responsibility for teaching undergraduatj 
their deans have promised to play a part 
developing a general-education 
riculum.) The Core thus is an ingredien 
a broader strategy to promote greal 
awareness of this place as a university,] 
need a countervailing force to the frag 
tation of student interests and specializai 
of knowledge that is endemic in 
education today. Knowing that memb 
our community have something in con 
is an efficient way of inviting all who lived 
learn here to share views in an informal! 
ting outside of the classroom. A con 
core nurtures the invironment necessaiy| 
those memorable conversations thati 
with the enduring choices, connections j 
contrarieties inherent in the human eni 
prise. And insofar as our efforts to stre 
our present understanding of the meai 
•of a “liberal/professional’ educatj 
broadens our sense of our position ml 
larger world around us, to that 
we dare to claim that we are indeed m0 
of a community committed to an into 
tual mandate delivered by John 
seventy years ago:
The things in civilization we most prize are 
ourselves. They exist by grace of the doings ai»J 
ferings of the continuous human community 
we are a link. Ours is the responsibility of con. 
transmitting, rectifying, and expanding the 
of values we have received, that those whocoOJ 
us may receive it more solid and secure, mort ¦ 
accessible, and more generously shared, than*| 
received it.
The challenge before us is to build onl 
institution’s past as we seek to increasei 
intellectual horizons in addressingj 
educational needs of tomorrows j 
Our traditions demand that we bra''en 
template our future selves.
MURRAY A. FELDf’ 
ATTORNEY AT LAW
Civil and Criminal
3447 Forbe* Ave. 
Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Wim MfiNZO To 65mU6 
EWOOGH CR£ÛiTS?
avilbenow ISN'T A5 ÎASy A5 |T 
MfEARS, 0 HF OF UTTi^ GMWS//,
By Mark Levine
To fiNO fv\i l‘Qf% KKfflr AMD 
fctCEWJE KOW Hrn THi "iNSTfWftfcNT 
Of meitss Di5TROcfiOW" \N\Th 
VMM yovj MM CoWieTe THÉ 
&E\1ôLüTioN, Fuifiil You*. dosale 
toT\m amo thos Gwme/
Finies.
¿M^nu
LUNCH DINNER
Kiltie CafeMore wood GardensKiltie CafeMore wood Gardens
T - 19Grilled Ham&Ch.StromboliTacosSalisbury Steak
Harhb. StroganoffCalifornia QuicheVeg. TacosCh.Stuffed Shells
Rice&Spinach BakeBuckboard Sand.Ch.&Mush. QuicheBaked Zucchini
W - 20Chicken Sand.Deli BarSpaghetti/ Mt BallsVeal/Gravy
Tuna&Mush./NoodlesBurritosSpaghetti/SauceSweet&Sour Mt. Balls
Carrot LoafBeef TacosSausage OmelettesChinese Dinner
Th - 21HamburgersDeli BarBaked ChickenWESTERN
Ham Ala King 
Pasta Bean Cass.
Gyros on Pita 
Beef Mac.&Cheese
Seafood Creale 
Cheese Souffle
NIGHT
F 22Hot Turkey Sand.London BroilFish AlmondineFlounder Almondine
Beans&FranksBaked HaddockR.Beef Au JusSpaghetti/Mt. Sauce
RatatouilleMt.Ball SandwichRoman Rice& BeansSpaghetti/Sauce
S - 23Hash Browns/Sausage 
Turkey Tetrazzini
EverydayPizza - Plain, Pepperoni 
Lentil Barley Stew
Everyday
Hot Sausage SandwichHot/Cold Deli 
Omelette to Order
Country Style Hamb.Carved Beef or 
Turkey
S • 24Pancakes/Bacon 
Tuna Salad Pita 
Beef&Cheese Quiche
Hamburgers & 
Hotdogs
Short Ribs 
Fried Clam Strips 
Cauliflower Maranca
M - 25Cold HoagieDeli BarLasagnaVeal Parmesan
Chicken Chow Mein 
Pasta Bean Casserole
Turkey TetrazziniVeg. Lasagna 
Baked Fish Supreme
Hamb. Stroganoff 
Spinach Tart
Subject to Change
uds
universitydining
service
Ioe Freshman
îfoindexter
FORBES TRAVEL5875 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh
521-7300
eD®SÉÛ ONE, 10U Mo5T; 
DU? \K!\Th\M
By Maszle and Beyer
'f, yoo*u cw
J0I*I|*J6 THE NMV.
eservations
One call for complete travel arrangements
ree Delivery
tyment
Our staff of full-time couriers will deliver 
documents anywhere on campus or the near­
by area
Transportation ticket request for authorized 
CMU travel, cash, & all major credit cards
ther Services
• discount airport parking
• visa & passport assistance
• vacation planning
• complete group travel arrangements & dis­
counts for organizations
'MU Extension:
>OQQ Business Travel:
CrCr Vacation:
321-9700
521-7300
An Authorized Travel 
Agency for CMU

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Classifieds
For sale a queen sized water bed. Includes: 
a finished frame, headboard, saftey liner, 
water bag, heating unit, and hose adapters 
for a faucet and water bag. $140 negotiable 
call 4562.
Editing Service — 578-3962 — Want bet­
ter grades? Have your reports and term 
papers proofed by an English major (QPA: 
3.75) Rates negotiable.
Lost: Wire-rimmed glasses in a black case 
with name and two phone numbers. Reward 
for return. Call 578-3899.
Female roommate Squirrel Hill area. 
$150/mo includes all utils. Own bedroom — 
large! Call 421-6660 between 9:00 am-5:00 
pm.
Pearl Drum Set hardly used, 5 piece, 
camber cymbol, $500.00, Matthew, x2359 
or 421-8130.
Tired of Work Study? Or Ineligibi^l 
notch marketing firm seeks aggressive 
prising representatives for on-campUs 
Excellent opportunity for right person 
pay! Make your own hours!! Rush name~ 
dress and telephone number to Campai 
teriors, 660 Amsterdam Ave., Suite 517 
NY 10025 or call (212) Sl6-2*4jl
Events
i| Movies:
The Year of Living Dangerous-
ly, starring Linda Hunt, Mel Gibson, 
Sigourney Weaver. Peter Weir’s effective film about a 
journalist who comes to Jakarta in 1965 just before a 
military group against Sukarno, and becomes embroiled 
in politics and love. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Rated PG. Admission 52.95.
Music:
CMU Wind Ensemble, directed by Keith Lockhart. 
Selections include Russian Funeral Music for Brass and 
Percussion, Concerto #2 for Large Trombone and Small 
Wind Ensemble, featuring Byron McCulloh, trombone, 
and Pictures at an Exhibition. Alumni Concert Hall, 
8 pm.
Combinations, a concert featuring recently compos­
ed pieces for electronic music and the piano, inter­
rupted by three rarely performed keyboard composi­
tions by Mozart. Frick Fine Arts Auditorium, Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, 8:30 pm. Admission free.
Sports:
Men’s Varsity Basketball away game against Thiel Col­
lege at 8 pm.
Clubs:
Student Senate meeting. Everyone welcome. Skibo 
Wherrett Room, 7 pm.
Art:
Selected Drawings by Georg Baselitz shown until 
February 28 at the Hewlett Gallery. Gallery hours: 
Tuesday through Friday 11 am to 4 pm; Saturday: 12 
noon to 4 pm, Sunday, 1 pm to 4 pm.
Rubber Stamps and art work made with rubber stamps 
will be on exhibit at Hunt Library until March 15. 
Display features stamps from six privated collections, 
wearable art, mail art, and book art. Also included are 
magazines and books about rubber stamps as well as 
a book by a contemporary Polish artist who carves his 
stamps from rubber erasers to circumvent government 
licensing of rubber stamps in his country. Exhibit 
assembled by Henry Pisciotta and Jill Diskin of the 
Libraries.
Lectures:
Aalto and the Role of Memory in Architecture,
presented by Malcolm Quantrill, RIBA, Visiting Pro­
fessor of Architecture at Texas A&M. Part of the 
Department of Architecture’s Spring Lecture Series. 
Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Works by Kimberly Burleigh, Steve Hankin, Lillian 
Pierce, Mary Weidoff on display at Pittsburgh Plan 
for Art until March 10. Gallery hours: Tuesday through 
Saturday: 10 am to 5 pm; Sunday 1 pm to 4 pm.
Understanding Addiction in Families: educational 
support group for people who are concerned about a 
family member’s abuse of alcohol and drugs. Eight 
Tuesdays. Counseling Center, E-Tower Morewood, 4 
pm to 5:30 pm. More information at x2922.
M m ¦ Movies: 
f ¦ I Fame, starring Irene Cara, Lee Cur- 
ren, Laura Dean. Four years at the 
New York High School for the Performing Arts. Fine 
performances, exciting score and choreography. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. Rated R. Ad­
mission $2.95.
Music:
George Gee and his Make-Believe Ballroom Or­
chestra plays at Club Graffiti’s, 4615 Baum Blvd. this 
evening. Orchestra originated at CMU in 1979 and has 
developed a hip and cool following among swing and 
jazz elitists. A dinner package at Graffiti’s is available. 
For more information call 682-4210.
Clubs:
AIESEC meets in Skibo 11 at 4:30 pm.
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty 2304 at 8:30 pm.
W I Movies:
I Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, star- 
[bbb ring John Barrymore. A classic pro­
duction of Stevenson’s tale. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 
10 pm. Admission SI. Sponsored by Activities Board. 
If, starring Malcolm McDowell, David Wood. Life in 
a repressed boy’s school explodes into revolt. An unusual 
film. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Rated 
R. Admission S2.95.
Plays:
The Birthday Party, by Harold Pinter; directed by 
Gillette Elvgren. A comedy of terror featuring 
treacherous guests and harrowing birthday games. 
Stephen Foster memorial Theater (Forbes Ave. in 
Oakland), 8 pm. Admission $4.50 to $6.50 (price range 
for run of shows). Ticket information at 624-4101. Runs 
until March 2.
Sports:
Fencing home meet against Penn State-Fayette. Skibo 
Gym, 5:30 pm.
Recreation:
Western Night at Kiltie Cafetaria.
Clubs:
Explorer’s Club plans rock climbing and kayaking 
trips. Everyone welcome. Skibo 12, 6:30 pm.
Clubs:
Game Club meets in Skibo 11 at 1 pm.
Movies:
OrchestraOA Uf * B Orchestra Wires, stJn
JL George Montgomery, Glenn Mi»
Carole Landis, Ann Rutherford, Jackie Gleason 
Romero. Small town girl marries singer in thiji; 
highlighting the Glenn Miller Orchestra. Songs i 
“I’ve Got a Gal in Kalamazoo,” “At Last," “ser 
in Blue.” Pittsburgh Playhouse 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
mission S2.95.
Plays:
One-Act Festival, presented by Theatre in the Sqm 
Plays featured are Bag Lady, by Jean-Claude 
Itallic, Before Breakfast, and The Interview, byp 
Swet. Wilkins School Community Center, Charles 
St. and South Braddock Ave., Regent Square, ? 3(d 
Tickets $3 with student ID. For more information] 
241-7474.
Of Mice and Men. Famous Rider Cultural ( 
pm. See listing for Friday February 22.
The Birthday Party. Stephen Foster Mem 
Theater, 2 pm. See listing for Thursday, Febmai
25
8 1 Movies:
Indiana Jones and The Tem- 
pie of Doom, starring Harrison Ford. 
See the film that rewrote the ratings system. Doherty 
2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 pm. Admission Si. Spon­
sored by Activities Board.
The Terminator, starring Arnold Schwarzenegger, 
Michael Biehn, Linda Hamilton, Paul Winfield. Grip­
ping film about a part man and part machine which 
is sent from the future earth to kill a young woman. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. 
Rated R. Admission S2.95.
Plays:
Of Mice and Men, by John Steinbeck. Famous Rider 
Cultural Center, 8 pm. Tickets available at TIX. For 
more information, call 681-1476.
The Birthday Party. Stephen Foster Memorial 
Theater, 8 pm. See listing for Thursday, February 21
Sports:
Men’s Varsity Basketball home game against Bethany 
College. Skibo Gym, 8 pm.
Men's Junior Varsity Basketball home game against 
Bethany College. Skibo Gym, 6 pm.
Women’s Basketball PAC Tournament at John Car­
roll University. ____________
M Movies:
10, starring Bo Derek, Dudley 
Moore, Julee Andrews. Doherty 
2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. Admission SI. Sponsored 
by Student Dormitory Council. Filmed in Cinema 
Scope.
Garbo Talks, starring Anne Bancroft, Carrie Fisher, 
Ron Silver, Hermione Gingold. A dying woman is 
obsessed with meeting the reclusive Greta Garbo. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Rated 
PG-13. Admission $2.95.
Plays:
Of Mice and Men. Famous Rider Cultural Center, 8 
pm. See listing for Friday, February 22.
The Birthday Party. Stephen Foster Memorial 
Theater, 8 pm. See listing for Thursday, February 21. 
Sports:
Women's Basketball PAC Tournament at John Car 
roll University.
Movies:
Indiana Jones and the Tempi 
Doom. See listing for Friday, Feta
22.
Eddie and the Cruisers, starring Tom 
Michael Pace. Offbeat film about the mysterious A 
of the leader of a rock group and of a reporter! 
seeks to find out why. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:301 
9:30 pm. Rated PG. Admission $2.95.
Music:
Carmen Pelton, soprano, accompanied by Ridj 
Bado, piano, performs works by Griffes, Vi 
Barber, Thompson at Campbell Memorial Chad 
Chatham College, 8 pm. Admission $5 at door or jj 
to Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble subscriben,! 
or senior citizens. For more information, call Pitc 
New Music Ensemble, 244-9996.
Clubs:
A Phi O meeting in Doherty 2210 at 7 pm. Eve 
welcome.
If you wish to place an announca 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event ml 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, 1 
Tartan, 10B Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon Univer 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campusj 
to the above address; or drop it off at our fljj 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through) 
puter mail to MEOPat CMCCTC. Only do 
ads will be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following informationi 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor 
description, location, date, and time. 
tion, include the nam^and phone number1! 
person submitting; this information willlx] 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
or validity of any Events listings. In u« 
reserves the right to edit or omit any I 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in °“r
All events are free of charge and o^ 
general CMU student population 
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is ^ 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If yoU 
comments or suggestions, send them toofl j 
addresses listed above.
Unfortunately, TOPSC was down m 
and events mailed to the listed account 
published in this issue. The Tartan 
inconvenience caused by this
CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

VOLUME SIX NUMBER TWO
FEBRUARY 19,1985
Florida deserves only my scorn 
John Casey
Design: Joshua Mutchnick
Filomena’s Anniversary 
Lauren Schneider
Design: James Curl
Response to Whitman’s ‘When I 
Heard The Learned Astronomer’ 
Scott Shaffer
Design: Christopher Johnson
pages 4 7 A Part of Oneself 
Lauren Schneider
Design: Elena Gialamas
R.SVI A Picture Feels Good Sometimes 
Keith Loell
Design: Christopher Johnson
page 9 Ashes 
Alan Hakimoglu
Design: Jerome Guzy
edpan ig n Nights at the Beaux Arts Ball 
Judy Merrill
Design: Jeffrey D. Pacione
page i2 Taking Inventory 
David Yezzi
Design: Jerome Guzy
edpa n A Happy Day in Centreville, Ohio 
Paul C. Workman
Design: James Curl
cover Jeffrey D Pacione 
B ACK PAGE Andy Berman
EDITOR
Michele Keane
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
Judith Merrill 
Terri Swartz
LITERARY STAFF
Christy Casamassima 
Pam Horn 
Steven Katz
DESIGN EDITORS
Jeffrey D. Pacione 
Joshua Mutchnick
PRODUCTION ASSISTANT
Peter Bain
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student enrolled at Camegie- 
Mellon University. All manuscripts must be typed. Please include your 
name, address and telephone number on a separate cover sheet on­
ly. Due to plagiarism laws, anonymous submissions and submissions 
under pseudonyms cannot be accepted.
All submissions are reviewed by at least three staff members, including 
the editor, to ensure a balanced review of the work
Ail unpublished submissions will be returned by the end of each 
semester. Acceptance notices will be sent no later than one week before 
publication.

---------------------------------------------------

:lorida deserves only my scorn
¡sit on your wet 
minsula, heat 
lamping over me 
:e a worn skull cap 
intly stolen from 
old Spanish monk, 
ly pale skin burns to 
bubbly, bright red, 
fhile your tide turns more 
Hue than blue should be.
'ou and I could have 
stormy, torrid 
ffair. Imagine 
ie buried up to 
iy waist in humid 
vhite sand. Think of the 
eadlines, “THE STATE OFt
ORIDA SUES MAN 
>R PALIMONY."

---------------------------------------------------

2
Filomena's Anniversary
Lauren Schneider
"You always know what you got, but 
you never know what you're gonna get."
She likes to think
that just maybe it's the Waldorf
or at least Orsini's
down on Main. Here, even the flowers 
are fake. She traces the string 
of polyester buds flowing over 
the edge of the table, beheading 
each one.
"If / were you, / woulda put a stamp on his ass, 
send him right back where he came from."
Filomena knows better. She has a wife's sense 
of duty.
She would scatter this fire hall 
floor with lilies, dance a flawless 
foxtrot over to the bar 
where he hunches, downing them 
in order: one shot, one beer, 
one married lifetime.
She would pinch that roll
of fat, his eyes smarting,
and drink him down like a gin rickey
perfectly mixed.

---------------------------------------------------

Response to Whitman’s“When I Heard the Learn’d Astronomer”
Scott Shaffer
As red-gold sunset fades out to the west.
Two groups of gazers gather on the ground 
To seek the scene of night that each knows best. 
The beauty of a clear September night 
Is set in patterns fixed against the sky 
For those who only gaze at points of light 
And never think to ask or wonder why.
But those who will inquire about the stars 
And want to research how and why they glow 
Stand awed in view of what they really are — 
They see a beauty others never know.
The heavens reveal wonders to those men 
Who pause to think and ask, then look again.

---------------------------------------------------

4
Part
Lauren Schneider I * V\Si
Bill and Louise Simon saved everything. They were the kind of 
people that could always be counted on to save their cancelled checks for at 
least five years, their grocery store receipts for a jingle can of cat food, every 
sweepstakes notice, the 'bits of string they pulled off boxes from the Park 
Bakery when they got ladylocks or pecan buns, even the little ceramic squir. 
rel that once climbed the pin oak out in.the front yard. When it fell during 
a particularly violent summer storm and the left hind foot chipped off, 
Louise gathered the slivers and glued the foot back on as well as she could 
then wrapped the little statue in tissue paper, saved from last year’s 
Christmas presents, and tucked it away in the hall linen closet. They never 
threw anything away just because it couldn’t serve its primary function 
anymore. A broken vase could make a wonderful penny holder for the top 
of the dresser, and a chair seat without a chair was perfect for when they 
took their long walks to the Robinson Park and wanted to sit on the hillside 
to watch the swimmers at the pool. Louise could remember countless after­
noons bouncing on that bright yellow vinyl seat, slowly sizzling in the bright 
July sunshine and watching those tanned arms cut through the crystal blue 
and clear waves. She thought that they might be the luckiest people in the 
township, because they learned how to make their lives easier by saving 
things. If you knew what you had, or had had, no one put one over on you 
and tell you something different.
They had been saving one thing longer than any of the others. It was a sav­
ings bond for $500 that Louise’s mother’s mother (they called her Bubcha) 
had given to Louise’s mother, who in turn gave it to Louise and Bill when 
Louise got pregnant with Billy. It didn’t help very much at the time, since itOnesel
wouldn’t be worth anything for at least fifteen years, so Louise and Bil
decided to tuck it away under the mattress in the folding sofa bed they kept 
in the basement. They argued long hours about what they’d use it for, and 
finally decided on a vacation. After deciding on a vacation, they had to 
decide where to go, but that was much simpler. Louise had always wanted 
to go to Miami Beach. Her sister Filomena had arthritis so bad that she 
couldn't spend one more winter as far north as Pittsburgh, and lived there 
in a senior citizens’ apartment complex. The stories she told Louise about 
their all-night shuffleboard tournaments and how they’d watch the baby 
alligators come up out of the canals at night to scrounge around the gar­
bage cans made it seem like a cross between the Hilton and the African 
jungle. Louise wanted to see it and she assured Bill that there would be 
plenty to do, since everyone at the complex had their own color TV sets in 
their rooms and he could watch Florida Studio Wrestling, which was much 
better than the fake World Class Wrestling they got on the Steubenville 
cable station. Filomena had lots of friends who could show them the town 
and he could even go fishing in the surf right on. the beach if he wanted to. j
It happened with absolutely no warning. One day they were sitting on the 
deck out back, sipping-their morning tea with lemon and honey and wat 
ching the Phil Donahue Show that had the transvestites, laughing as they 
guessed how Bill might look as Wilhemina, or a tomboyish Billy. The next 
day, Bill got a call at work that told him to come right away to the 
hospital, something happened to Louise. She fell down the basement stairs 
and smacked her head on the antique pine rocker bubcha gave her, the one 
she fought her sisters tooth and nail to get. Dolores Povich was their closest j 
neighbor and the one who called him, but she left the hospital when BillgotJ 
there. She never liked him. She’d come up with an article about familiar 
rape from the February Woman’s Day to show Louise, since Louise was 
always lazy about locking the door when Bill wasn’t there, and heard some 
one crying at the bottom of the stairs.
Louise was stretched out on a bed in the Intensive Care Unit. She looked 
more complicated than the water injection engines Bill had been learning 
about in his night school class at the General Motors Mechanics’ Training 
Center, with all those tubes and wires hooked up to her. Bill thought she 
looked like she* might want to curl up, to make a tight little ball instead o 
lying out flat on her back so the whole world cguld see she was sick. He 
moved toward her instinctively, touching her leg as if he was waking heruP j 
to ask her to stop snoring or something. Her skin felt cold, like she was 
angry with him about something.
There was a group ot white-coated, serious-looking men and women who 
were gathered out in the hall. They spoke in low tones and glanced d°wn 
their clipboards every time there was a lull in the conversation as though 
they had crib sheets. The words they dropped were unfamiliar but 
bad-sounding to Bill. “Cerebral hemmorrhage” was the one that scared 1 | 
and he put his hand on the coat of one of the other doctors, a young sy111 
pathetic looking man that looked a little like Louise’s brother Ray.
Are you talking about Louise? Does Louise have a cerebral hemmorhage
‘Mr. Simon, I’ll come talk to you in the waiting lounge.”

---------------------------------------------------

5
Bill didn’t know what there was to talk about. Louise was probably just a 
stubborn engine, just needed to rest a little before she turned over and ran 
as good as new. No little bump on the head ever hurt anyone. Besides, she 
had just finished packing for their trip to Miami Beach the night before, 
and they were ready to leave. Their bedroom seemed filled with the two 
suitcases. She was busy all evening, emptying the bags she’d brought from 
McCrory’s that were filled with sample size everythings, from shampoo to 
hair conditioner to shaving cream, mouthwash, even soaps. Her humming 
brought Bill in from the TV room, where he had been watching another 
Star Trek rerun, to watch her flit about the bedroom, sorting his socks and 
underwear, wrapping the bottles of liquid shampoo and mouthwash in 
cellophane wrap to protect the clothes in case the bottles came open. When 
she started going through her drawer of nightgowns, Bill waltzed up behind 
her and laid his hands across each of her pelvic bones, and let them rest there.
Take the white one.”
There’s nothing to that white one, I’ll freeze.” Louise threw her head back 
a little and felt the warm breath on her neck. She sniffed. “Bill, have you 
been at my brandy?”
He didn’t say anything, just pulled her back against him and sidled up to 
her, nuzzling the pale, freckled neck as though it were a soft and familiar 
pillow. Louise thought that it might be nice to try that lemon juice trick 
once they got to Miami. She’d put lemon juice and water on her hair, then 
go out into the sun and it would turn white blonde. With a tan, she 
wouldn’t be half bad for 47 years old. She could wear the white nightie 
and it would glimmer against her smooth, brown skin. When Captain Kirks 
voice blared from the other room, ordering Spock to the bridge immediate­
ly, she turned and kissed Bill swiftly, then pushed him away, both hands 
square in the middle of his chest.
“What?”
I ve got packing to do. Private packing.” As she watched Bill leave, she 
caught his eye and smiled a wide smile, and he returned it with a flourish of 
his hand. This is going to be some vacation.
Bill wanted to see the doctors. He squirmed around in the overstuffed 
lounge chair, then settled down again and began flipping through a year old 
Outdoor Life. The articles were the same every year, he thought, only they 
changed the headlines to get you to buy it again. There was a black girl sit­
ing across from him, humming and singing softly as she played with her 
baby> who was crawling on her lap. She dropped the babys rattle when a 
short, thin man strode into the room. He had a hook nose and very little 
hair, and Bill thought he looked like a mean little dwarf as his eyes darted 
hack and forth between Bill and the girl.
Bill? Bill, why don't we go to my office to talk? He motioned to thehall
The
Way and waited for Bill to pull on his windbreaker.
voice was too thin, the manner too gentle for Bill. He stared for a mo-
at the doctor, who looked down for a moment at the baby
8°ne, isn’t she?"
“Bill, my office?” The smile was rigid.
“She’s gone.”
The suitcases never got unpacked. Bill just shoved them to the side of the 
bedroom and forgot them. He didn’t go into the room often enough to be 
bothered by them. He slept on the couch in the living room or on the chaise 
lounge out on the deck when he did sleep, which wasn’t often. It had only 
been a week since he managed to send all Louise’s relatives home after the 
funeral. They’d moved in nearly three weeks ago, to help him, and had 
done nothing but drive him crazy ever since. He certainly learned where 
Louise got some of her stranger habits, like the weird health food cereal she 
ate for breakfast and the way she always heated leftover coffee again and 
again, until it was like low grade tar; her sister Filomena was the exact 
copy. He could have sworn she had come up from Miami Beach to remind 
him of the trip they didn’t make, just to make him miserable. She saved 
things just like Louise did, and Bill was ready to kill her on sight if he spied 
her smoothing out one more plastic bag or rinsing one more styrofoam meat 
tray to stack next to the sink. When she puffed up the walkway to the 
plane, pulling her bag behind her like a little trundle cart, he saluted her.
Bill started through the house the day after Filomena had bustled her way 
back to Miami Beach, getting rid of it all. Both of their sons, Billy and 
Gary, had come back for the funeral and they took turns following him as 
he raided closets and nooks and niches. He emptied drawers, cleaned out 
boxes, even sorted through tall piles of receipts to extract only the most 
necessary ones, throwing the rest away. There were licenses, for the dogs, for 
Louise to drive at age sixteen, for their marriage. Every few minutes, Billy 
or Gary would pull him back and try to talk to him. They would speak in 
an even tone about how they all missed Louise but God must know what 
he’s doing and it must have been for the best and he must believe that, and 
a bunch of other bullshit. Bill just laughed and pulled away, and went back 
to sorting things. When that didn’t work, they would just sit back on their 
heels and watch him. Every few minutes one of them would grab a 
photograph or a yellowed newspaper clipping out from under his hands and 
exclaim too loudly.
“You can’t throw that away!” Gary grabbed a battered stuffed rabbit away 
from Bill. “Mom made me this when I was five, and you even rescued it 
from the Incline when I left it there, want it for my kids.”
“You don’t have kids. When you do, buy them a new rabbit. This one 
smells.”
“Jesus Christ, Dad. God got her. You don’t have to kill her again.”
Bill had heard all that God stuff before, and it just didn’t make sense. He 
wouldn’t have taken Louise if there wasn’t a reason, because He loved her 
like He loved them all. Bill wanted a reason. To him, it looked more like an 
experiment, Louise’s a random nonsensical death just to show that it could 
happen at any time. If it was, he wanted to kill someone. He’d show them 
again. It was too hard to believe that there was something he could blame 
for this gross inconsideration, that something willed Louise to hurtle down 
the stairs and bang her head and die. They had spent their entire lives sav-

---------------------------------------------------

ing everything, making the most out of everything that had the decency to 
come their way, and for what? So he could sit without Louise, throwing out 
stuffed animals and empty pill bottles until he went too? Bill punched the 
rabbit’s head with his fist and felt the plastic eyes grate across his knuckles, 
refusing to close.
Whatever household was left gradually returned to normal. Billy and Gary, 
tired of fighting Bill’s obstinate refusal to settle down and forget about 
throwing everything Louise saved away, went back to their respective wives 
and jobs, in their respective faraway states. Bill was getting thin. He barely 
ate, sometimes heating a can of soup for dinner with some stale crackers. At 
work, he kept ? bag of pumpkin seeds in his toolbox and he lived on those.
He never really ate them though, just sucked the salt off and spat them back 
out. He just went to work and came back every day, and spent his evenings 
and weekends working in the house. He’d finished the basement and attic 
and had to finish up the closets and cabinets in the kitchen and hall, and to 
throw away a few things she’d stored outside near the woodpile he kept for 
their fireplace. After he tackled the bedroom, the house would finally be 
finished, his again.
' Excuse me, sir. May I talk to you for a few moments today?"
Bill looked up from the closet floor where he was sifting through a box of 
matchbooks from all the different restaurants he and Louise had been to.
He saw a couple of unfamiliar ones and wondered for a moment who Louise 
had gone to those places with. Maybe some friends for lunch, maybe the 
mailman, how was he going to know? Anyway, theie was this man tapping 
at the screen door, dying to get in.
May I help you?” Bill poised his body in the door frame, taking up most of 
it, and peered down at the young man. He was skinny and pimply, with 
black hair and black-rimmed glasses, wearing a black suit and carrying a 
briefcase and a stack of bright orange booklets.
I'd like to talk to you about the Lord Jesus Christ. Have you accepted the 
Lord Jesus Christ as your savior? The Bible tells us that we must each accept 
the Lord as our personal saviour, and ask him to come into our lives.”
‘‘The Lord was just in my life.”
‘ That’s wonderful, sir. How?”
‘My wife died three weeks ago."
The young man shifted his weight uncomfortably, and peered through the
screen. He smiled broadly. “My name is Stephen, and you’re,”
Neither of them moved for a moment. "May I come in?”
"Go away."
‘Can I tell you about the Four Spiritual Laws today, sir?
"Please leave me alone.”
Bill stood silently, watching this bright-faced salesman of Christ rocking 
back and forth outside his front door as if he desperately needed to find a 
bathroom. He was sweating and mopped his brow with a yellowish handker­
chief he pulled out of his pocket.
"The Four Spiritual Laws ar^ the laws Jesus intended us to live by. I want to 
tell you about them in the hope that you’ll realize that the light of the Lord 
Jesus Christ."
Bill opened the door suddenly, trying half-heartedly to hit the little bastard 
with it, but instead the guy just slipped in and when Bill turned around, he
expected to see StepYien setting down Viis booklets and briefcase and rolling
MMvM6x HMDd^ StH DmtwVvMH ctmvMHwa lHv6wMDda uvM wttk D dMMg bHMDwOa ,Sll

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

on his own, not even after Louise’s death. Me only wanted to get Stephen 
started, wanted to hear him start wailing away, so he could make him shut 
up and leave. There was nothing more annoying than some smart shit who 
thought he could tell you all you needed to know about the world, when he 
was half your age and never had to put up with half of what you suffered 
with. - —
“The four spiritual laws govern the three selves, which I can show you.” He 
pulled out one of the tracts and handed it to Bill. “There are three drawings 
here. This is the physical self, this is the intellectual self, and this, this is the 
spiritual self." The young man pointed to three circles with lots of little 
dots, a capital S, a capital C, and a chair symbol inside each one. General 
public, Self, Christ, and the King of the Mountain seat.
Cute, Bill thought, religion for the illiterates. He looked at them for a sec­
ond and lingered over the spiritual-self drawing. The C sat on the large 
chair, with the S sidled up to the chair leg. Bill thought it looked like a dog 
when a bitch in heat was around, humping every leg in sight, human or 
otherwise. That’s what it looked like, hanging on so desperately to that chair 
leg like it couldn’t exist without the C. He thought about Louise, her hands 
curled around the curved leg of her grandmother’s rocker, not making a 
sound, maybe thinking about all she had to do that day and how this bump 
on the head might make her dizzy and slow her down. “Looks like my wife, 
when she fell.” Bill almost laughed as he turned away from the drawing. 
“Hanging on for dear life like that.”
“Your poor wife was a sign. God gives us signs when he thinks we need them 
to show us His way. Your wife was a part of the living tableau that Jesus 
wanted you to learn from.”
Bill just snorted disgustedly at him. “She just fell down the stairs and 
bumped her head. It killed her. Kids do it all the goddamned time, and it 
killed her.” Bill pulled out one of the dining room chairs and sat down 
backwards on it, looking tired. He looked at the pile of matchbooks he had 
made on the floor, and thought of the things he'd tossed out. He’d thrown 
away all the pieces of their life together, the notes she’d tucked so carefully 
all around their house that told him she had been there, that she had 
wanted to save the things they made. He was a nice guy, a good guy to take 
a vacation with, a good fuck, but he’d thrown away all the evidence.
Stephen looked up from the floor where he’d been staring at the matches 
too. Bill just glanced over at him and looked away. There was no reason to 
smile.
“Go home.”
“Bill, now how can you resist,”
“Go home.”
After a last look at the young man as he struggled out the walk to the next 
house and hopefully more cooperative disciple, Bill strode into the bedroom 
and set himself down on the floor in front of their suitcases with a dull 
thud. He pulled at the latch for a moment and, when it opened, he sifted 
through the bright, cellophane-wrapped bottles and vaguely recognizable, in­
terestingly shaped packages, smelling them. They only smelled of cellophane 
that had baked in the damp heat of captivity. As he ran his hands along the 
bottom, Bill hit a wide, smooth patch, and pulled it up.
He wrapped the ivory nightgown, mostly satin and acrylic lace made soft by 
many washings, around his mouth and nose and inhaled. Hard. Gardenias, 
smooth and white, brown and warm all at once, filled his head and for a 
moment the Miami sun streamed in the bedroom window, lighting a patch 
on the floor where he could lie down and rest.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

8
A Picture
Feels
Good
By two o'clock the old tin and glass 
thermometer on the South side of the 
barn read ninety. The small milkhouse 
on the West side had a black tar-paper 
roof and the air above it danced and 
twisted in the sun.. One small window 
was set in a fieldstone wall next to the 
low door. It was dark and cool inside.
Tracy squatted in the corner, his 
back against the whitewashed stone and 
his butt just above the wet floor. If he 
turned his. head far enough to the right, 
he could see, between the milk tank 
and a spigot on the wall, the man's pro­
file in the doorway.
Come on out boy, the man said. 
I'm tellin' ya, come on out.
Tracy said nothing. He could 
smell the whiskey and the sweat-stale of 
the man as if he were sitting next to 
him.
It ain't gonna do no good, just sit- 
tin' there. No good at all. The man said 
this and came further inside, shutting 
the screen door behind him.
Don't fuck with me, the boy said 
low, more to himself than to anyone.
He was looking down, trying to 
find the picture. There, between his feet, 
was the dull gold shine. He reached, 
and as his fingers moved under it, the 
frame scraped across the cement. Out­
side, half a mile down the hill, he could 
hear a tractor-trailer whine along the 
blacktop. He listened until it passed, his 
head cocked.
In the dark he squinted at the 
photograph. It was an old one of a 
young woman with her hair pulled 
back. The dress she wore was blue and 
looked uncomfortable; too small maybe. 
She was homely. He ran his hand along 
the glass, trying to wipe off some dust, 
and left a dirty smear. He put his head 
back and tried to remember a time. He 
tried to remember when his muscles 
weren't tight and sore, or the place 
behind his eyes didn't ache and pound 
with hate.
Sometimes
Keith Loell
Lookin' at that pitcher ain't 
do you no good, the man said, it ain 
gonna do you no good and it ain't 
na do nobody no good.
Go fuck yourself.
I'm just tellin' ya.
Tommorrow I'm gonna leave 
said and shook a little. The sweat k 
the hot day was cooling on him.
You'll do just fine, now won't 
you? The man laughed. You're such' 
smart fella' and all. I'm sure there's 
plenty for someone like you out ther*
The boy closed his eyes and 
swung the picture down as hard as I 
could on the wet floor. The frame! 
corner first and bent back almost ini 
The glass shattered across the cemeni 
and one sharp piece sliced across 
knuckles.
Jesus Christ! The man yelled. 
What the hell is wrong with you. Je?
He walked forward a little mol 
trying to see over the tank. The light 
from the small window landed on 
back of his head and shoulders, rimij 
them in red.
That was good. That was real! 
smart, he said.
Ya? And I guess you're so sma| 
You know every damn thing.
I know that you ain't nothing ! 
know a goddamn crazy retard kid 4 
I see one. The man put one hand i 
edge of the tank and stooped over,t 
ing to see under the rounded bottonj 
Tracy could feel the blood runnj 
down his hand onto the floor. He | 
ed his thumb against the tip of hisi 
die finger three or four times to 
stickiness. He was breathing deeply.| 
shaking had stopped.
If you knew anything, Tracy 
thought as he gripped the bent frair 
tight and felt the good sharp of the j 
on his hand and started to get up. I 
really knew anything, he thoughttoj 
himself. You'd run like hell.

---------------------------------------------------

ASHES
Jenny Ketler was about to sell 
Her seven-hundredth shoe-pair, which would make 
Her “High Salesperson of the Week,” and Nell 
O’Brien’s forearms had begun to shake 
(Her twenty-second pushup, just three more),
And Alex Hicks had heard his girlfriend’s phone
Begin to ring, after thirty-four
Busy signals (he sure hoped she was home),
And Bill Trutt drained a Pepsi from its can,
To thirsty to get out a paper cup,
And was about to go meet his wife, Ann,
For dinner out. But then something came up.
Something came up, like a shoe pressing down 
On a cigarette. But this was a town.
Alan Hakimoglu

---------------------------------------------------

10

---------------------------------------------------

11
NIGHTS AT THE
JUDY MERRILL
After World War I, the modern era of abstract themes began with 
the Surrealist Ball. Red lighting, roasting eyeballs, and split per­
sonalities filled the night, surpassing Dali at his own game. Other 
abstract themes have included Black and White in 1979 and Fantasy 
in 1981. The biggest problem with these themes has been choosing a 
costume. Unable to rely upon history, students sometimes became 
bewildered by the infinite possibilities. At least the two women who 
were sent home in 1948 for wearing Balinese costumes that were too 
skimpy knew what they were doing.
ity’s a tenuous con- best, and it’s to see so much ef- bemg put forward to loose from its ngs altogether.1981 Beaux Arts Participant
Leave it to the French to invent the night of spectacle and revelry 
that we know as the Beaux Arts Ball. In gay Paris, the students of 
L’Ecole des Beaux Arts decided that they needed to unwind at the end 
of the year, so they took over the Rue Bonaparte for two or three days 
and threw a huge theme party. Costumes were required to comple­
ment the evenings’ themes, such as Aztec and Incan civilization.
In 1915 Carnegie Tech imported Le Bal des Beaux Arts thanks to 
the efforts of Henry Hornbostel, a graduate of L’Ecole and one of the 
first faculty members of the School of Applied Design (now the College 
of Fine Arts). As an architect, Henry gave us more permanent 
monuments, such as Porter Hall and the Gymnasium. He also har­
bored those madmen who wrote the campus hit “Fight for the Glory of 
Carnegie.” Four Tech architects, who were draftsmen for Henry while 
he designed the gym, used to relax by playing in a makeshift fife and 
drum corps. During one inspired session they came up with the song. 
The Ball is probably the one tradition Henry brought to Tech that 
will forever gain him thanks.
Ready to rattle Pittsburgh, this balding, bearded professor led the 
“Design School Ball.” The ancient Roman theme gracefully matched 
the decor of their building and produced the first toga party on cam­
pus. According to the 1915 Thistle, the party lasted three days.
10:30.We arrive late at the Gates of Delirium, er, the main entrance of the College of Fine Arts. My escort, Smita, has had some last minute trouble with her Egytian Cat Goddess costume; even now, she struggles with recalcitrant safety pins that refuse to stay closed.Hmmm, should be interesting when she’s dancing with wild abandon later. Will the cat come out of the bag?
The spirit of the night has always been dictated by its theme. 
Everything from the stability of costumes to the color of the punch 
revolves around it. Exotic, opulent places from history provided Beaux 
Arts themes for years. Imagine the Fine Arts Building hung with 
tapestries and dim candle chandeliers as the‘setting for the Court of 
Charlemagne, or festooned with palm trees and a twenty-foot statue of 
Buddha for the Balinese Ball. Hordes of actors and artists wore 
pigtails and silk for the Ancient Chinese Ball; Cossacks, concubines, 
and Catherine the Great all appeared at the winter palace of the Rus­
sian Ball.
Since we’ve opened the subject, let’s talk about costumes a bit more. There are lots of famous couples: Romeo and Juliet, fake and Elwood, the X and Y sperm cells . A few imaginative group efforts: u Chinese dragon, the Lock Ness Monster (with accompanying bag pipe player), the principal characters from I Claudius. .
One does not partake of chaos by remaining one’s ordinary self. 
Hence, the costume. Since costumes are judged and prizes are award­
ed, the Beaux Arts Ball does take on a little bit of the character of the 
Rose Parade. One can imagine a judge’s checklist: originality, best 
representation of the theme, best use of roses. . . . Anyway, regardless 
of the prizes, some Ball costumes have become legend. The Black and 
White Ball included a complete chess set, a black and white Carmen 
Miranda, and a generic macaroni box. In addition to the sperm cells 
and Nessie, Le Bal Fantasie included a Jackson Pollock painting,
Nazis, the Empire State Building, and a body wrapped in cellophane.
A little advice for this year’s creative geniuses: 1) There is no such 
thing as “too wild” or “too tacky” when you’re planning your costume, 
but 2) remember that you’ve got to have money to eat after February 
28. 3) Don’t leave much to chance. Make sure your costume is sturdy 
enough to dance in and survive 5 mph crashes. 4) Consider the 
possibility of disaster, and have a backup costume or formal wear 
waiting in your room. Just in case. . .
4:30Once again in the Alumni Concert Hall. I am sitting behind my friend Sue. Earlier in the evening, I observed Sue in an elaborate Mae West costume: now. I note, she has a simple party dress on. I make inquiry concerning her change of venue"Someone threw up on me, Bob ”
The Beaux Arts Ball has a reputation all its own. Some consider it a 
night that legitimizes any behavior, but then again, most college 
students don’t wait for the Ball to participate in group madness. 
Perhaps the air of mystique has heightened the tales of wickedness that 
linger after the event. Or maybe it was only bragging. In any event, 
partygoers will wake up the next day. Like it or not.
Dead and blown away. Busted flat m Baton Rouge Just plain unmitigated tired No way I’m going to party anymore — these other folks, they must be on drugs or something / feel very old.“The party's over . . "
Quotes are from Chance Encounters at the Beaux Arts Ball by Bob Brenner published in Dossier Vol II FOf the Seventieth anniversary Of the Beaux ArtS Ball, the them« IS Nklht\o 4 Additional material drawn from back u*u« of Dossier, the Tartan, and the Thutie Liberal interpretation of the theme in costume is preferred; formal wear is ac­
ceptable Festivities begin at 10 pm on February 23.

---------------------------------------------------

12
Taking Inventory
.The walk’s clogged with leaves this morning.
For an hour, after rain, I watched from the lawn, 
feeling my shoes fill up with mud: birds standing out 
in the trees like stunned lovers when the door is opened 
and the light flicked on, the brick of the house 
and the leaves — on fire for a week — now smouldering 
in a rain turned to fog
Across the field, a mile from the house, I walk 
my usual route along the perimeter of the woods, 
taking this time to talk to no one and remembering 
that when I left, just before dawn, you were asleep.
By afternoon you are up — the light in the kitchen 
your only sign of life — and walking through 
the cluttered rooms. You pause at the window 
to close out this cold month, become confused 
by piles of half-used matchbooks, magazines, 
wool sweaters smelling of mothballs, wet clothes 
and new bought books, silverware and opened 
bottles of wine.
When I cross the field and enter the house again
leaving dirt across the mat, when I see you
and strain to speak, when I receed quietly
to the corners of the house emerging only
to take your pulse and discuss the payment of the bills,
I am convinced by you that I could teach autumn 
a thing or two about dying.
David Yezzi

---------------------------------------------------

!t was a bright and happy day in Centerville, 
ft chirping, the flowers were blooming, the pods 
|puppies were playing. Little Lisa ran down the stairs 
pping up a delicious and nutritious breakfast, 
j“Take this bucket out to the pasture, Lisa,” said Mom, “ me back a heaping bucket of pods.”
“Oh pods!” cried Little Lisa, “thank you, thank you! Now I can their happy songs!”I
 "Yes,” said Mom, “you can, but please try to keep from dripping 
us on them! Remember what happened on the LAST equinox!”
Oh, yes, Mother, I won’t drip one drop!” Little Lisa promised, as Ikipped out to the pasture.
I Dad smiled as he watched Little Lisa happily jaunt out to fulfill 
appointed task which she took so seriously, never once suspecting 
[she would never return. He hugged Mom when he came into the 
|en, being careful not to drip any mucus on her, and then satfor breakfast.
It’s a shame we had to do that to her,” he remarked, “but you 
what the oracle said.”
Well, we shouldn’t feel so bad, ” Mom consoled, “she had to go 
|time, and to be honest, I’d rather the pods get her than the lering Mist.”
II suppose you’re right, Mom,” said Dad, “but I can’t help 
Jlermg what we could have gotten for her if we played our cards
Well, there’s certainly no use crying over spilled milk!” joked 
. as she spilled milk all over Dad’s trousers. The two laughed
ust then Little Billy pranced into the room, wearing his favorite 
ers mitt and tossing what used to be his elder brother’s baseball, 
ferished that baseball, for, since the demise of his brother, it was 
dy true friend, and they often played games together, and 
wies it would even tell Little Billy bedtime stories, depending on 
hase of the moon.
i^ee. Dad, could we play catch before I go to school today?”
¡fd Little Billy.
^e. Little Billy, I’d love to. But I’m afraid that I just can’t un- 
e of my hands grows back. Besides, it’s a school day. You’ll need 
'ur strength to lift those body bags.”
w Dad,” Little Billy whined, “can’t I not lift the body bags forne day?”
^°. Im afraid not,” said Dad, “sending the body bags to the in­
to1' on time is very important. You know how bad the school- 
^rnells after they start decaying.”
ut Dad, it’s just not fair! I don’t wanna lift body bags; I want 
' catch! IT’S NOT FAIR IT’S NOT FAIR IT’S NOT FAIR! ! ! ” 
started to throw a tantrum.
> all right, stop yelling,” said Dad, “here, take this bucket. Go 
r,e Pasture, and fill it with pods. When you come back with 
loh^k to t*le r*m pods, we’ll play catch.” 
ith We^ °h boy.” Little Billy then ran
f e field, not wanting to lose one second.
0n? and Dad looked at each other for several minutes, until Dad
|THATSOmething-he h Wasn 1 50 much °f a loss ”y oth laughed over that amusing little quip, when suddenly a 
Mv ek°n c*oor- ’ -Mom got up and answered it. 
rin at a handsome lycanthrope!” exclaimed Mom, as the 
her thorax from her throat with his long razor-sharp

---------------------------------------------------


