urne 91, Issue 1Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 19063 September .1.996
Jniversity Center officially opens
Opening offers
something for all
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan News Editor
Although the building has been open 
for nearly a month, Carnegie Mellon 
officially inaugurated the University 
Center (UC) last Wednesday with 
bands, banners, and bagpipes. The 
party lasted from morning till night, 
and there were activities for everyone 
included in the festivities.
“The opening of the University Cen­
ter was truly an historic occasion for 
Carnegie Mellon. Until now, the Uni­
versity had never had a central com­
munity center that serves all the mem­
bers of the Carnegie Mellon family — 
students, faculty, staff and alumni,” 
said Robert Mehrabian, president of 
Carnegie Mellon. “I enjoyed being part 
of the excitement and enthusiasm that 
permeated the University Center on 
opening day. It was the first of many 
memorable days I know we’ll share in 
the building.”
Maryann Moore, director of special 
events, cites the community atmo­
sphere of the building as well as CMU’s 
hectic daily schedule as reasons for 
integrating a little bit of everything 
into the day!s activities. “When we 
planned it, we thought about thfe fact 
that there really is no good time in the 
University schedule where we' could 
get everyone. We saw the 4:30 class, 
break where we could get students, 
faculty, and staff. [However] we also 
knew we still weren’t going to get 
everyone, so we extended the opening 
to all day, “ Moore said.
Please see CEREMONIES, page 5
ihmivïv 
* 996
1 ñ
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor
Jnivernst yCoifnc Crv snCyy oefealCnev npe Shergr, Sy npe drgbelsgnc kernel fCsn 
mevresvCcD kud 2lesgvern TSaeln ueplCagCr shS•e Cn npe lgaaSr oeleMSrcD
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Mar,aging.c.., ' 
Uhergr, keleMSrges fCsnev Cff vCct Crv hlSbgvev MCrc Congbgnges ySl yCoifnct snCyy 
Crv sniverns Cfg•eD 3elet heShfe ofCMSl ySl ylee n1spglnsD
UC provides for 
varied activities
By KENNETH J. KRAEMER
Editor-in-Chief
: [Ed. note: See related stories on LI]
. Crowds with cameras assembled to 
: watch a wrecking ball destroy the 
northeast comer of the doomed Skibo 
- early in .July, 1994. Skibo was on its 
way to á landfill, and the ball was 
rolling on onS of the biggest construc­
tion projects in Carnegie Mellon’s his- 
:tory.
On August 1,1996, two years and 
two. months and $47 million later, the 
Carnegie Mellon University Center 
was completed and open for business, 
on timé'and on budget.
1 The UC is a large building. 240,000 
square feet big, to be exact. The space 
allotted among various rooms, many 
Please see UC , page 5
New policy reforms alcohol use in quad
By ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Personnel Manager
Rumor and speculation have hounded 
the new Interfratemity Council (IFC) 
Risk Management Agreement since its 
inception last spring. The agreement 
has completely changed the alcohol policy 
in the fraternity quad.
The policy, which Brendan Clarke, 
IFC president, said passed through IFC 
without any votes against it, changes 
many of the
will receive a wristband and card with 
numbers indicating how many bever­
ages can be retrieved from the bar. The 
only alcoholic beverages allowed in a 
fraternity party, according to the new ’ 
Risk Management Agreement, are beer 
and wine coolers.
Guests are also restricted to bringing 
no more than 12 beers or eight winè 
coolers to a party. Any beverages that 
have not been consumed by the end of 
the party can be retrieved the following
“We have to show that we can con­
trol ourselves and that we can run a 
party without destroying ourselves. ” 
— a fraternity brother
standard 
practices of 
the frater­
nities. No 
longer can 
any woman 
with a col­
lege ID en- g™™— 
ter a party.
According to the new policy, anyone wish­
ing to enter a fraternity party where 
alcohol is present must be on a typed 
guest list which is limited to 300 people. 
Also, any party with alcohol present 
must be a Bring Your Own (BYO) event 
or the alcohol must be served by a third 
party vendor. At a BYO event, guests 
bringing alcohol must be 21 years of age.
With proper identification, the guest
day between one and five o’clock in the 
afternoon. The parties themselves must 
be registered with the IFC council at 
least 24 hours in advance, and no 
postering is allowed for a party at which 
alcohol will be present.
“The policy was written by an IFC 
committee formed to do the task,” said 
Clarke. “The committee was formed at 
Please see IFC, page 3
Space shortage, debt
create parking problem
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Getting parking at CMU has never 
been for the weak-hearted, and some 
say this year is as bad as ever.
“The other day I brought my car and I 
couldn’t find a space. I had to park on a 
side street. It took me 40 minutes to find 
a spot,” said Kristin Wintersteen, an 
employee in the astronomy/physics de­
partment.
“There are less spaces this year than in 
previous years, and demand hasn’t re­
duced proportionally,” said Student Body 
President Bryon Krug, a junior ECE/ 
EPP major.
The addition of the University Center 
has made the parking crunch worse. It 
has reduced capacity and brought more 
cars on campus. “The other day I couldn’t 
find a place to park in the lot, so I parked 
in the permit zone ... and got a $25 
ticket,” said Jessica Stein, who works at 
Ali Baba in the new building. “I can’t 
even find a space in the lot, so I don’t 
drive anymore.”
According to Neal Binstock, Assistant 
Vice President for Business Adminis­
tration, one must obtain a parking per­
mit to park on campus. Permit alloca­
tion is divided into three groups. First,
faculty and staff are assigned permits 
based on seniority. Next commuting stu­
dents are granted permits according to 
seniority. Finally, resident students get 
permits based on their year, with se­
niors getting precedence. Under school 
policy, freshmen are not allowed to have 
cars on campus. Everyone who isn’t as­
signed a parking permit is put on a wait 
list.
Parking spaces for this school year 
cost between $415 and $1,020, depend­
ing on their location.
Last semester the Parking Office dis­
tributed a flyer warning students of the 
“...acute parking shortage on campus, 
due to spaces being lost to construction 
and an increased demand.” The flyer 
said that all resident students will be on 
the parking wait list.
“If you’re a sophomore and a resident 
student you’re unlikely to get parking on 
campus,” said Binstock.
“Last year was the first year that they 
[Parking Services] didn’t get all of the 
wait list, and this year nothing is certain 
[sic],” said senior CS major Michael 
Rosenthal, a student senate representa­
tive on the parking committee. Parking 
Services will be finishing up permit as­
signments this week, so no statistics are 
Please see PARKING, page 3
Family sues CMU over son’s death
By BECKY A. COWSER
Taran News Editor
The parents of a former CMU 
student are suing the University 
in the case of their son’s death
next day. “Joe Gordon’s death was a ter-
“The suit alleges that the Uni- rible loss for his family, his 
versity Health Services didn’t friends, and the entire Univer- 
respond appropriately when he sity community. I have great 
came in for treatment," said Dqn ¿¡inpathy for the many people. 
Hale, vice president of Univer- inside and outside this commu­
nity, who loved Joe 
and continue to 
struggle with tliis. 
loss,” said Michael 
Murphy, dean of stu­
dent affairs. r 
“The staff of Health 
Services are extractt- 
dinarily caring indi- 
sity relations. viduals whose professionalism
Gordon went to Health Ser- and competence is without ques.r 
vices in the early afternoon of tion,” he added.
September 29, 1994, complain- Anita Barkin, director of the* 
ing of nausea, diarrhea, and Health Center, and the parents, 
headaches. He was treated and of Joseph Gordon could not bej 
released. reached for comment.
“The suit alleges that the University 
Health Services didn't respond appropri­
ately when he came in for treatment.'’
— Don Hale, VP of University Relations
which occured September 30,
1994. Joseph Gordon was rushed 
to Montefiore Hospital on the 
night of September 29 where he 
was admitted in critical condi­
tion with meningococcemia, a 
bacterial meningitis. He died the
Dean of Students takes office
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
Dr. Paul Fowler, the new associate dean of 
-. Student Affairs and director of Student Life, is 
the new kid on the block of CMU’s administra­
tion. Born in South Carolina and educated at 
Florida State and the University of Virginia, he 
is the latest addition to our administrative fam­
ily. His resume is fall of previous student affairs 
experience and he, it seems, is ready for the 
challenge of the students, CMU, and Pittsburgh 
in general.
Dr. Fowler has worked as a director of Resi- 
: dence Life, director of Campus Activities, and 
: the dean of Student Affairs at Pfieffer College. 
He has taught psychology to first-year students, 
and his dissertation focused on the Campus 
Crime Act of 1990.
With these qualifications and geographical loy­
alties, one might wonder why Fowler chose to 
come up north.
“I keep moving north. The universities I worked 
for really gave me the opportunity to do anything 
I wanted,” he said. “I’m a student affairs profes­
sional by nature and by trade. It’s in my blood.” 
That, evidently, is why Dr. Fowler took one of the 
most demanding positions at CMU.
“The Dean of Student’s office works within dif­
ferent areas of responsibility. My job focuses on 
five different areas that have considerable overlap 
in terms of mission and function.
“These include community service, standards, 
leadership, and the organization of non-resident 
students.
“I orchestrate the five areas as well as take calls 
from parents and students. I’ve been here for a few 
weeks and already I’ve been involved in safety 
issues, student acclimation, and worked with some 
disciplinary cases,” he said.
Some other interesting services Fowler is in­
volved in include the Office of International Educa­
tion and the Office of Scholarships and Fellow- 
Please see FOWLER, page 4
----------------------------------
Jnside
Calendar................................................................L12
Classified..................................................................9
jòmics...............•••................................................L4
¿¡versions;.............................................................15
living................ ...................•................................LI
fiorum.............................J  ..................................6
Sports......................................................-..........12
Sports
Soccer season starts 
• see page 12
Features
University Center opens with grand celebration 
• see page LI
Forum
Cynics, go home! 
• see page 7
urn ue9ue1

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996
2C,e 9DDD
Democrats convene 
for party in Chicago
CHICAGO Aug. 31 (AP) - More 
than a half-mile out on Lake Michigan, 
outside Navy Pier’s Grand Ballroom, 
Lisa Bemabei was trying to decide 
whether to shell out $250 for a VIP 
ticket to Vice President A1 Gore’s party.
“We haven’t seen too many cute 
VIPs,” Bernabei said with a sigh.
“Democrats know how to 
party.... I’m going to sleep 
for a week after this. ”
—Maria Gonzalez
“There’s a lot of women.”
On closing night of the Democratic 
National Convention, there was time 
for one more blowout. For many, Gore’s 
party Thursday was the place for the 
last bash, a chance to look back at a 
week of free beer and smoked salmon.
For Tom McGuire of Chicago, it was 
a party for women senators at the 
Bank of America: “Good food. Good 
drinks. Good hors d’oeuvres.”
Talk of parties 
past soon gave 
way to the party 
present, though.
Shortly after 
President 
Clinton’s speech, 
which was 
shown on two gi­
ant screens, the rock band Los Lobos 
took the stage. They were joined late 
in their set by Clarence Clemons and 
Stephen Stills.
As the band launched into the 
anthemic “Will the Wolf Survive,” the 
floor in front of the stage in the cav­
ernous, high-ceilinged ballroom be­
came a teaming mass of swaying 
people.
Midway through the set, the band
stopped playing and Olympian Carl 
Lewis came out to introduce Gore as 
“a man who created a new dance sen­
sation.”
Gore did his now famous, self-mock­
ing version of the Macarena, in which 
he stands stone still, to wild cheers, 
before giving a brief speech and turn-
--------------- ing things back over to
the band.
Cesar Rojas of Los Lo­
bos snapped pictures of 
Gore and Lewis, and 
David Hidalgo looked al­
most sheepish as he 
made sure to shake 
___________ Lewis’ hand.
“It’s like your high 
school dance,” said Nicholas 
Apostolides of New York as Clemons, 
formerly the saxophonist with Bruce 
Springsteen and the E Street Band, 
joined Los Lobos on stage. “Only bet­
ter.”
“MUCH better,” said his wife, 
Kathleen, on the floor a few feet from 
the stage. “Democrats know how to 
have a party. We’ve eaten more 
shrimp and drunk more free booze
than you could count. I’m going to 
sleep for a week after this.” Maria 
Gonzalez of San Francisco nodded in 
sympathy.
“So many parties,” she said. “Don’t 
get me wrong, we all worked very, 
very hard. But there was so much 
good food and so many other things to 
do, too.
“I’m tired. But it’s been a great week. 
A great, great week.”
6glhfCre snirn oCises yCnCfgnc
WENDOVER, Nev. Aug. 30 (AP) - 
An airplane stunt went awry on the 
set of Nicolas Cage’s new movie Con 
Air.
One man was killed when a rigged 
aircraft unexpectedly fell, crushing the 
special effects crew member.
Neither Cage nor co-stars John 
Malkovich and John Cusack were on 
the set when the accident occurred, 
the syndicated television magazine 
show Entertainment Tonight reported 
Friday.
Phillip Swartz, 39, of Mountain 
Green, Utah, was pronounced dead 
at the University of Utah clinic Thurs­
day night. •
Police Chief Angel Barboza said in 
a Friday news release that Swartz 
was killed during an industrial acci­
dent and that an investigation was 
continuing.
Although Barboza had no other de­
tails, Entertainment Tonight reported 
that Swartz was a special effects 
worker on the movie.
Killer awarded custody of child
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. Aug. 30 (AP) - 
The daughter of a lesbian and a man who 
murdered his first wife should remain in 
her father’s custody, an appeals court 
ruled Friday.
The decision is not based on the sexual 
orientation of Mary Ward, the 1st Dis­
trict Court of Appeal wrote in its unani­
mous decision.
“The focus of this case is not on the 
mother’s sexual orientation, but on the 
best interests of the child,” the three- 
judge panel wrote.
Cassey Ward, 12, lived with her mother 
until last summer, when a Pensacola 
trial judge revoked Mary Ward’s cus­
tody, saying he wanted to give Cassey a 
chance to live in “a non-lesbian world.”
Cassey moved from her mother’s 
Pensacola home to live with her father 
and his third wife in nearby Milton. 
John Ward pleaded guilty to second- 
degree murder of his first wife in 1974 
and served eight years in prison.
Mary Ward appealed the ruling to the 
1st DCA, arguingthe judge changed cus­
tody just because she was a lesbian.
The appeals court disagreed, finding 
the trial judge’s decision was supported 
by “competent and substantial evidence” 
that Cassey was being harmed by con­
duct she was exposed to in her mother’s 
home.
The evidence - comments and ques­
tions from Cassey on sexual matters, 
bad table manners and personal hy­
giene habits, and a preference for men’s 
cologne - could be interpreted differ­
ently, the appeals court conceded.
But, the court said, a ruling by a trial 
judge about evident cannot be over­
turned unless the lower court clearly 
abused its discretion by reaching a con­
clusion no reasonable person would.
That’s not the case in the Ward case, 
the court wrote. A similar decision might 
be reached in a heterosexual situation, 
the court wrote.
“We are not suggesting that the sexual 
orientation of the custodial parent by 
itself justifies a custody change,” said 
the unsigned ruling.
“This child should be given the op­
portunity and the option to live in a 
non-lesbian world,” Circuit Judge Jo­
seph Tarbuck wrote in his August 1995 
decision.
Citadel women pass Hell Week
CHARLESTON, S.C. Aug. 30 (AP) - 
The four women cadets at The Citadel 
have survived “Hell Week” - the mili­
tary college’s grueling initiation of run­
ning, push-ups and other tests of physi­
cal endurance.
They will join other first-year cadets 
at class Monday, after Sunday’s sched­
uled day at the beach.
As of Friday, five men had dropped
out, leaving 578 freshmen.
“The people who make it through the 
first weeks have made it through the 
most difficult part ... adjusting to the 
military lifestyle,” said senior Charles 
Perreault, spokesman for the cadet regi­
ment.
The college ended 153 years of accept­
ing only male students last year after 
Shannon Faulkner won a court battle 
and became the first woman cadet. She 
fell ill and dropped out the first week, 
citing stress and isolation.
Thirty-two other cadets also quit.
Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, an expert in 
women’s studies from Emory Univer­
sity who opposed coeducation at The 
Citadel, said there is a good chance the 
four women cadets will do well at the 
college.
“They are pioneers,” she said. “They 
are on a mission. They are perhaps more 
motivated than the average male cadet.”
Cadets reported to campus August 24. 
They were up before dawn Wednesday 
for physical tests, and roused from bed 
that night to stand at attention in a dark 
barracks courtyard.
Hurricane nears Eastern shore
WRIGHTSVILLE BEACH, N.C. Aug. 
31 (AP)- After Hurricane Bertha scared 
tourists off East Coast beaches in early 
July, an even more powerful hurricane 
was churning to the north today, threat­
ening to ruin the last long summer week­
end of’96.
An unpredictable Hurricane Edouard 
was expected to give beachgoers a break 
today. But forecasters said the storm 
might shift to the west, possibly bring­
ing tropical storm force winds and heavy 
rain from North Carolina to Delaware.
“The winds in this one should be 
slightly stronger than that of Bertha. 
The storm, if it did make that turn, 
would be moving as slow as Bertha and 
rainfall totals would be similar,” Joel 
Cline of the National Weather Service 
said late Friday. “It’s a wait and see 
type thing.”
Roller coasters cause injuries
Aug. 26 (AP) - When the terrifying 
Timber Wolf came to life in Kansas City, 
the man who built the beast was the first 
to ride it. Soaring over hills and roaring 
into turns, Charles Dinn kept thinking: 
This is a really nice roller coaster.
But on opening day of the 1990 sea­
son, a computer went haywire and one 
coaster train smacked into the back of 
the other.
The ride ended with 48 people writh­
ing in pain from broken bones, broken 
teeth, punctured tongues and twisted 
necks. A boy’s forehead was split from 
temple to temple.
“I looked down and there was blood 
covering my shirt, my jeans, just pour­
ing off me,” said Jennifer Grizzell, wh( 
was 11 when the Wolf broke her leg 
punched out a tooth and left a 3-inch 
gash bisecting her severed eyebrow, “j 
looked back at my neighbor’s friend. She 
spit all her teeth into her hand.”
Dinn blamed the park, Worlds of Fun. 
The park blamed Dinn. The injured 
blamed everyone, including Curtis Sum­
mers, the man who designed the famous 
coasters that Dinn built by hand from 
solid lengths of Southern yellow pine. 
Years of lawsuits ensued. The following 
year, theme park enthusiasts voted the 
Timber Wolf the most thrilling ride in 
America.
What is unusual about the Timber Woll 
incident is that accidents like that are not 
all that unusual. Amusement parks today 
expect minor injuries. Paying for 
customer’s lost wages or doctor’s visit have 
become routine costs of doing business.
“It’s cheaper to pay some nominal 
settlement than re-engineer a ride,” said 
Howard Nations, a Houston lawyer who 
won a 1989 jury verdict of $2.5 million 
on behalf of a boy half-paralyzed by a 
roller coaster.
But when the number of soft-tissue 
injuries and slipped discs climbs too 
high, when broken bones supplant 
bumps and bruises, cumulative human 
injury becomes something akin to engi­
neering data, and parks often retool a 
ride to bring the threshold of pain down 
to more fiscally tolerable levels.
How much trial and error does the 
industry rely upon? “A lot,” Dinn said. 
“Any major new ride, it’s a trial ride. It’s 
a prototype. The first year is a trial 
year.”
Some examples:
In a lawsuit against a designer, Six 
Flags said it spent $1.78 million re­
vamping the curves and drops of three 
roller coasters in California, Texas, and 
Georgia and compensating at least 70 
people hurt while riding them, includ­
ing one woman who broke her neck.
The Fiesta Texas theme park toned 
down the Rattler roller coaster at least 
three times in the four years since it 
opened after scores of people got hurt, 
including three nuns and a curious chi­
ropractor who decided to feel for himself 
the source of a patient’s pain.
The Kentucky Kingdom theme park 
complained that a lap bar popped open 
after the debut of the Thunder Run 
coaster and that all the bars were subse­
quently found structurally unsound. A 
train also uncoupled climbing a hill.
Houston’s AstroWorld added head 
rests to the Texas Cyclone after a law­
suit was filed by 16-year-old Cesar 
Gonzalez, whose neck was whipped so 
badly he ruptured a vein that sent a 
blood clot to his brain, leaving him half 
paralyzed by a stroke.
Fourteen-year-old Ryan Bielby flew out 
of the Timber Wolf last year and was 
killed in the fall. Alawsuit alleges her seat 
restraints came free; the park said that 
was impossible. The park was sold this 
year and the new owners replaced the seat 
restraints in time for the new season.
Four-Day ForecastCarnegie Almanac
Tuesday
JirrcD 3g,p ClSirv 
SO.
Wednesday
2Clnfc sirrcD 3g,p 
gr npe xwsD
4roleCsgr, ofSivsD 
3g,p ClSirv xwD
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Oct. 8 1946: 
Freshman regulations began in 
full force and continued until Oct. 
19, 1946. Every freshman was 
required to wear a name plate, 
greet all upperclassmen, attend 
two freshmen assemblies, earn a 
70% grade on a traditions exam, 
and freshmen were not allowed 
to sit on the “Senior Fence.” Fresh­
men males were not allowed to 
walk on a certain bridge that ex­
isted at the time.
In addition, women students 
were required to wear caps that 
could be purchased at the book 
store for a small sum. Three vio­
lations of the regulations was con­
sidered sufficient to postpone the 
date of the offender’s tradition 
exam. On the evening of the last 
day, a dance was held in honor of 
the freshmen.
The rules were intended to in­
tegrate the new class into the 
student body. Student Council 
instituted the rules.
25 YEARS AGO, Sept. 16 
1971: Wean Hall opened as a 
new building on campus. Then 
named Science Hall, the new 
building housed the campus
“Computation Center.” The 
building contained a “mini-li- 
brary”, now known as the Engi­
neering and Sciences Library and 
was largely anticipated because 
its size allowed for staff mem­
bers to have office spaces. It also 
contained features that other, 
older buildings did not provide, 
including three elevators and 
various small lounges for stu­
dents’ convenience.
lOYEARSAGO, Sept.9,1986: 
CMU’s current ID card account 
system went into effect. The Book 
Store, Art Store, Entropy, Mar­
garet Morrision Co-op, and Scot­
land Yard all began part of the 
network. Students were allowed 
to create a new account with an 
opening balance in any multiple 
of fifty dollars.
Oscar Mayer, then head of Aux­
iliary Services, oversaw the addi­
tion of card reading doors as a 
part of the new system. The new 
doors were added to Donner and 
Mudge Halls and Mayer consid­
ered the prospect of creating a 
desk for E-tower of Morewood 
Gardens. The previous year lami­
nation problems had caused a
bad batch of IDs to be made. This 
caused some IDs to not operate in 
the card readers.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Sept. 3, 
1991: Stemming from Summer 
incidents, CMU police arrested 
three CMU student on charges of 
burglary of the school’s ID ma­
chine. On June 10,1991 at 3:23 
am police observed the students 
carrying away boxes containing 
blank photo ID cards from the 
student storage area in D-tower 
of Morewood gardens.
Upon investigation of the scene 
of the break-in, CMU investiga­
tor William Kaiser discovered 
that one of the boxes opened dur­
ing the theft contained the photo 
ID camera.
Two others accomplices were 
later implicated in the thefts. The 
machine was used to make and 
encode all CMU identification 
cards.
ONE YEAR AGO, Sept. 5 
1995: Dining Services created a 
new meal plan system to help 
the department eliminate its $1 
million debt. Block meals and 
DineXpress meal plans were
made non-refundable. First-year 
resident students were required 
to purchase 10,12, or 14 meals 
per week plans which included 
varying amounts of DineXpress 
dollars.
The meals did not carry over 
week to week and the dollars did 
not carry over to the next semes­
ter.
The changes were made to keep 
income projections accurate and 
to pay off the debt, which grew by 
over $800,000 in the 1994-1995 
school year alone.
The closing of Highlander on 
Saturday, Wok ‘N’ Roll’s non-ac- 
ceptance of block meals, lack of 
vegetarian cuisine, lack of hot 
breakfast in Highlander, and the 
inability to get out of the meal 
plan angered students.
Dining officials cited the low 
turnout at Highlander and com­
petition with the dining in 
Morewood Gardens as reasons 
for these changes.
No plans were announced to 
make Wok ‘N’ Roll accept block 
meals.
Compiled by 
CHRIS CANNON

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 19963
reeks experience changes with new alcohol risk policy
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Manager 
ENlCnelrgnc alSnpels lCgsev GiesngSrs CaSin npe 4Nk CfoSpSf hSfgoc Cn C Meengr, gr npe uSleISSv RClvers 
ffSir,e fCsn mevresvCcD
FC, from page 1
m IFC meeting arid at any point in.the 
inlicv’s creation, new committee mem- 
)ers could join.”
Last week, when word spread through 
;he quad that the IFC executive commit- 
;ee had voted to make the upcoming 
weekend completely dry, resentment 
;oward the new policy resurfaced.
“There’s nothing in this constitution 
;hat says that you can go above our heads 
md make a decision, and that what we 
¦fraternity brothers] are here to do is just 
jive you input on what we think. We have 
;he right to make this decision,” said 
Larry Adams, Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) 
president, at the IFC meeting held on 
Wednesday, August 28. Adams later ex­
plained that what bothered him most 
bbout the vote by the IFC executive com- 
nittee wasn’t the decision to make the 
weekend alcohol free, but that the deci­
sion was made only by the executive 
¡ommittee and not by the IFC as a whole.
Clarke clarified that the decision 
made by the executive members of IFC 
n a vote of three to two with two 
abstaining was just a recommenda- 
ion, not an order, that the fraternities
remain dry this past weekend. When 
the motion to make the weekend of 
August 31 completely dry came to an 
official vote by the fraternity repre­
sentatives, it was defeated by a vote of 
eight to two.
One fraternity brother at the meeting 
summed up much of the popular feeling 
about wanting to prove that the new 
policy could work. “We have to show that 
we can control ourselves and that we can 
run a party without destroying our­
selves,” he said.
Another brother pointed out what has 
been a concern of many on campus since 
talk of the new policies began: “A whole 
dry event,” he said. “I’m sorry, but no 
one’s going to come.”
The vote to reject the dry weekend 
meant that this past weekend would be 
the first big party weekend (theme party 
weekend) for the fraternities under the 
new policy. The fraternities would finally 
have the chance to test out the policy that 
they began working on last year.
“There was no pressure from the Uni­
versity .to change IFC policies,” Clarke 
said. “In general, alcohol use on campus 
was violating state and University laws
“Let me make myself as clear as I can 
about anything. I believe that communal 
living ... is absolutely central to health 
and success.... I certainly believe that 
Greek houses provide that potential.... I 
welcome the fraternities and sororities 
living on campus,” he 
said. Murphy also 
made clear that he ex­
pects Greek organiza­
tions to abide by cer­
tain rules. “If the fra­
ternities and sorori­
ties, individually and 
collectively, do not 
support or abide by 
the standards of this community, then 
they will not continue to be here,” he said.
Part of abiding by the community’s 
standards means following national and 
state laws by not providing alcohol to 
minors, a practice ÿiat IFC is taking 
very seriously. In fact, IFC is co-spon­
soring along with the Offices of the 
President and Student Affairs a four 
week Awareness Program open to all 
students.
IFC will also be busy with enforce­
ment of the new policy as it is completely
and the rules and internal and does not involve Murphy’s 
regulations which office or campus police, 
govern fraternities “We will not monitor the BYOB policy, 
from their national We will monitor violations of the state 
headquarters.” law,” said James LaPaglia, chief of cam- 
“I feel that IFC pus police. LaPaglia said that campus 
should be lauded,” police’s only new policy regarding alcohol 
said Michael is to begin using state instead of internal 
Murphy, Dean of citations. Despite saying that campus 
Student Affairs, police will continue to patrol the frater- 
“The critical issue nity quad on Friday and Saturday nights 
from where I sit is because that is where the bulk of social 
university policy activity on campus takes place, LaPaglia 
and state law, and said that the fraternities are not being 
whatever mecha- targeted.
nisms anybody on “We do not conduct routine inspections 
campus puts in of houses. It has not been our policy or 
place that ensures practice,” he said. “I don’t see in the near 
that their behav- future that we will just be doing unan- 
ior is consistent nounced entering of fraternity houses to 
with that — I feel do checks.”
positively about “If campus police have probable cause
that,” he said. to believe that there is a violation of the 
Murphy also dis- law there or there’s a crime occurring, 
missed some of the we certainly can and will enter,” LaPaglia 
rumors about his said.
feelings toward Accordingto LaPaglia, probable cause 
the Greek commu- is more than suspicion but less than 
nity in general, absolute certainty that a crime is occur­
ring in a certain location. LaPaglia said 
that if an underage person is stopped 
because he or she appears intoxicated, 
that person ought to be asked by the 
officer where the alcohol was provided. 
That person’s word, although any place
"Just because you can’t go to a frater­
nity and get drunk, doesn't mean you 
can't have a good time.”
— Larry Adams, president of SAE
on earth can be named, can serve as 
probable cause for the office to investi­
gate further.
As of August 29, only two alcohol re­
lated citations had been given out by 
campus police since freshmen first ar­
rived on campus on the 20th. LaPaglia 
said that the citations were given to 
individuals and that campus police has 
not cited any of the fraternities so far 
this semester.
With the new policy, IFC monitoring 
teams can enter fraternity parties more
easily than campus police. Campus po­
lice may need probable cause to enter a 
fraternity, but according to article IV, 
section three of the risk management 
agreement, IFC executive officers “shall 
be admitted to any social event with 
positive proof of identification.”
Both the IFC president and risk man­
ager are empowered to fineindividually. 
Potential fines range from $25 for any 
bottle with more than eight percent alco­
hol present at a party to $150 for a 
fraternity purchasing alcohol with house 
funds.
Dean Allison, coordinator of student 
life for greek affairs, pointed out that 
much of the new policy is an effort to 
reduce the liability factor for the frater­
nities.
“When Greeks host an event at their 
house, they are essentially liable for 
everything that happens during that 
event to everyone who attends the event 
especially, but not only, when alcohol is 
served,” he said. “Described in this policy 
are the steps to successfully reducing a 
chapter’s risk.”
Of course, reduction of risk can possi­
bly turn into reduction of social life. Brent 
Davis, social chair of Kappa Delta Rho, 
said that Saturday's party was good, but 
added, “I would say that there were fewer 
people out going to parties.” He attributes 
the lower turnout to the new policy but 
still supports the policy because of how
____________ much it reduces the
house’s liability.
At SAE, Adams was 
happy with the turn­
out at this year’s 
“Dante’s Inferno” 
party. SAE had broth­
ers from its Pitt and 
Duquesne chapters 
come help get things 
started for a party that Adams de­
scribed as “different, but not neces­
sarily bad.”
“Just because you can’t go to a frater­
nity and get drunk, doesn’t mean you 
can’t have a good time,” Adams said.
He also pointed out that he believes 
parties will pick up as the semester 
wears on because people still want a 
place to go on Friday and Saturday 
nights.
[Ed. Note: Eric Salzman is a fraternity 
member.]
'arking scarcity creates problems
PARKING, from page 1
currently available.
The University is working on 
alternatives to parking on cam­
pus. It is organizing car and van 
pooling and has increased the 
number of bike racks on campus, 
Binstock added.
“I think it’s good that the Uni­
versity is trying to help people 
find alternatives to parking at 
CMU. However,, as long as we 
have a parking shortage, we need 
to be looking for alternatives to
the current system,” said Krug.
The Morewood parking lot was 
re-painted this summer in such a 
way that several spaces were added. 
The University is also considering 
re-striping more parking lots.
There are no immediate plans 
for any new parking lots. “We 
want to expand parking without 
impacting the campus’ appear­
ance,” said Binstock.
The current parking garage is 
designed to have one more floor, 
but this won’t be added because
Parking Services, which receives 
no auxiliary funding from the 
school, is in major debt from build­
ing the garage. Approximately 
half of Parking’s income went to 
paying off interest on the 6 mil­
lion dollar garage. Only $3,000 
went to the principle of the loan.
“The University needs to take 
a definitive stand on this, be­
cause parking is up to its ears in 
debt; it’s well beyond its ability 
to fund any projects,” said 
Rosenthal.
A SCIITE FOR LESS THAN A HOTEL ROOM
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES 
INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, CABLE MOVIES, 
FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND RESERVED PARKING 
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENGE, SHADYSIDE 2 BLOCKS 
FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 12 DELICIOUS 
RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSP1TALS.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY LEASES
5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
(412)441-4444
http://tig. com/Pittsburgh/ __
Lowering The Cos 
Of Higher Education... 
Every Day
Come to Office Depot for guaranteed low prices on:
Computers & Accessories
• Software 
•School Supplies
• Printers, Fax Machines, Calculators 
and Other Business Machines
•Furniture
Plus, check out the in-store 
Business Center for all your 
printing and copying needs
Call 1-800-557-3376
for the store nearest you
no 51DPT Tjap 
OJ HP JJUL
12/9"? 03-Q97-00 ¦1

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996
Dean excited for CMU challenges
FOWLER, from page 1
ships, which he urges all stu­
dents to take advantage of.
Fowler made clear that he was 
ready for the responsibilities re­
quired in his new position.
“My background is in provid­
ing opportunities and resources 
for students to excel in all areas: 
academic, spiritual, and physi­
cal. While I’m here, I don’t just 
want to be an administrator. I 
also want to provide opportuni­
ties for students to reach their 
full potentials.
“Students should feel very for­
tunate to be here. With the ad­
dition of the new building, I
think there will be a greater 
community of students. I’m 
looking forward to that. I also 
connect with the first year stu­
dents,” said Fowler. “We’re go­
ing to be learning at about the 
same pace.”
He went on to say that while 
he is firmly entrenched in the 
“old school” support of the aca­
demic mission of the Univer­
sity, he is also interested in the 
students and their well-being. 
This academic mission, Fowler 
explained, is important, but 
without fully-actualized stu­
dents there is no way to carry it 
out.
“A healthy body, soul, and spirit 
will complement a healthy mind,” 
he said. This is the focus that 
Fowler will follow through his 
future at CMU.
Dr. Fowler is looking forward 
to seeing the Steelers play, and 
after years in smaller communi­
ties, he is excited about the op­
portunities for education, enter­
tainment, and relaxation avail­
able in Pittsburgh.
“This is an ideal situation for 
my wife and I. There’s no reason 
for us not to plan on staying 
here. I’m excited to be here, just 
to be in the Pittsburgh and CMU 
communities.”
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Global Change Center 
receives NSF grant
The Center for Integrated Study of the Human 
Dimensions of Global Change at CMU received a 
$5.8 million grant over five years from the Na­
tional Science Foundation (NSF). The Center is 
one of six research initiates funded by the NSF for 
the study of the hum an dimensions of global change.
Carnegie Mellon’s Global Change Center will 
focus on research involving the integration of sepa­
rate strands of research concerning global environ­
mental change. More than 30 scientists from 14 
institutions in seven countries will be working on 
the project.
The Center will provide a framework for analysis 
and work on developing educational resources for 
citizens and schools.
The Center also receives support from the De­
partment of Energy, the Electric Power research 
Institute, the National Oceanographic and Atmo­
sphere Agency, and Carnegie Mellon, totaling $2 
million as an annual budget.
CMU releases C++ 
for Andrew System
Carnegie Mellon’s Andrew Consortium has re­
leased the first C++ version of its Andrew User 
Interface System (Andrew 7.4). The version is an
integrated suite of compound document applica­
tions with which Unix users can create docu­
ments containing combinations of text, pictures, 
graphs, figures, spreadsheets, and other embed­
ded objects.
The new software is available free of charge and 
has been released in binary form to simplify its 
installation. It can be found on the World Wide 
Web at http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~AUIS.
The Andrew User Interface system has been a 
part of CMU’s computing environment since 1986, 
when it was developed as a part of the University’s 
Andrew network, a joint project between the Uni­
versity and IBM Corp.
Andrew is supported on most Unix platforms. 
The binary release can be used on systems includ­
ing IBM’s RS/6000, Sun Solaris, Stfn 4C 
Sparcstation, HP 720, Linux and DEC Pmax.
CMU campaign gets 
Heinz donations
Carnegie Mellon will receive $18 million from 
the Howard Heinz Endowment, the Vira I. Heinz 
endowment, and the Heinz family endowment to 
be put toward the University’s upcoming capital 
campaign.
The campaign will manifest in the year 2000,H 
which is the centennial of the CMUs founding. 
Each foundation contributed $6 million toward the 
$18 million total, and they are the campaign’s lead 
grants.
Crime and Incident Report
8/17 THEFT, 6:02 am. An of­
ficer responded to the Software 
Engineering Institute garage to 
take a bike theft report. The vic­
tim reported securing a blue 
mountain bike to a pole outside 
the SEI garage around 8:00 pm, 
but noticed it missing about 11:00 
pm. The value of the bike is $600. 
No serial number was available 
at the time.
8/17 THEFT, 2:53 pm. A vic­
tim filed a suspicious person re­
port and reported a missing wal­
let. The student’s wallet had been 
left on the floor, behind the base 
of the basketball hoop, in the Uni­
versity Center.
Another student in the gym 
stated seeing two males in the 
gym leave through the loading 
dock. The victim was advised to 
contact all parties about the sto­
len contents of the wallet.
8/24 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 10:24 pm. An officer no­
ticed a truck driving up from 
the rear of Donner Hall. The 
driver, a student, pulled up the 
handicap ramp to the sidewalk, 
drove over the lawn, and then 
up the grassy hill to Resnick 
Hall.
The truck descended the curb 
at Resnick and parked. The of­
ficer identified the driver and 
informed the actor that these 
actions to gain access to Resnick 
were improper. The student said 
normal vehicle access to the side­
walk was blocked. The officer 
issued an internal citation for 
disorderly conduct.
8/25 FALSE ALARM, 9:14 pm. 
A smoke detector went off in the 
living room of a Roselawn apart­
ment. Upon arrival, the officer 
found that occupants of Roselawn 
had a grill set up on the front 
porch. Smoke from the grill had 
activated the smoke detector in­
side. The officer had residents 
close a window on the front porch 
before resetting the alarm.
8/25 MEDICAL, 9:44 pm. A 
student phoned the police dis­
patcher complaining of back pain 
and requested a ride to the hospi­
tal. The pain possibly originated 
from a car accident that the stu­
dent had been involved in the 
previous day.
The student did not feel badly 
immediately after the accident, 
but awoke from a nap the next 
day and experienced lower back 
pain. The officer drove the stu­
dent to Presbyterian Hospital.
8/26 ATTEMPTED THEFT,
5:23 pm. An attempted motor­
cycle theft was reported. The 
motorcycle had been parked on 
Margaret Morrison St. in front of 
Donner Hall throughout the 
night. When the victim returned 
to the bike, the motorcycle was 
running and the lock cylinder had 
been removed.
The battery was also almost 
completely dead. A brake on the 
rear tire had prevented the bike 
from being moved. The victim 
estimates the replacement cost 
for the cylinder at $200.
8/26 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
9:53 pm. An officer took a report 
from a CMU staff member. The 
victim’s vehicle was parked in 
Morfewood Lot at 11:00 am. Upon 
returning at 9:15 pm, the victim 
noticed that somebody had tam­
pered with both locks, making 
the key unusable. No other dam­
age was apparent.
8/27 THEFT, 5:54 pm. Cam­
pus police went to Cyert to hear 
complaints about two stolen 
PowerBooks.
The computers, valued at a 
total of $4,500, were located in a 
large room subdivided into many 
cubicles. The officer was told 
that if even one or two people 
are working in the room, the 
door is generally left standing 
open.
The victims cubicles were the 
ones closest to the door. Both 
PowerBooks belonged to Data 
Communications.
8/29 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF,
5:03 am. Campus police received 
a complaint that unknown per­
sons had spray painted both sides 
of the Shuttle buses, which were 
parked in the Morewood Circle. 
The windshield of one bus was 
also painted with blue spray 
paint. At this time an officer no­
ticed that the retaining wall be­
tween Morewood and Mudge had 
been spray painted black. At ap­
proximately 1:30 am, city police 
had stopped two actors with black 
paint on their hands.
8/29 THEFT, 12:59 pm. A stu­
dent reported the theft of two 
memory chips from Doherty Hall. 
The chips were taken from Dell 
computers, in an area that was 
used by the Governor’s School for 
the Sciences. The area was also 
left open one night by CPS after 
the floor was waxed. The chips 
have been replaced at a a total of 
$576.
• Chief of Campus Police, James 
LaPaglia, reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on the Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief, the News Editor, 
and the staffwriter typing the 
report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report
Compiled by 
CHRIS CANNON
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If y ou know of such 
an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. 
Kraemer at 268-2111.
Carnegie Mellon
ENGINEERING
urne91,9 IesC,CaC9 gi M9loeUvU1t 
ynUa’vt SldeUNv9’19s Mo9 Slr’9w,l 
Slo,9p9w9eC gi Mo9 cUvvUN,e1 
0e1,e99n,e1 6e’9n1nr’arC9s 
3oU mrp9 b99e .rw9’ MU 
Co9 ’9rePs E,sC iUn Mo9
Spring Semester 1996:
SENIORS
Kevin M. Anderson CIV
Rahul Bafna MEG
Phuong K. Banh MSE
Tarek A. Baranski MEG
Nathanael J. Barlow ECE
Talvaldis S. Bauer CIV
Arijit Biswas ECE
John M. Black MEG
Andrew W. Brinkmeier CIV 
Colin J. Brodsky CHE
Kanitha A. Burns MEG
Todd P. Camill MEG
Kyongsoo Chae MEG
John Chen ECE
Li Chen ECE
Sianjin R. Chua ECE
Tahmin O. Clarke ECE
Jason N. Cohen CIV
Joseph C. Costanzo MEG
Chanakya C. Damarla ECE
Keith T. Dickerson ' CIV
Colleen M. Dillon MEG
Martin G. Dixon ECE
John Doan CTV
Kyle B. Driscoll MEG/EPP
David R. Drop CHE 
Stuart B. Ellis MEG
Daniel E. Giammar CIV 
Richard A. Gordon ECE 
Lori J. Gregor MEG
Brian D. Guzzi MEG
Cheryl L. Harris ECE 
Micah S. Hershberg CIV 
Joseph N. Hosteny ECE 
Kevin W. John CIV 
Francis Johnson MSE
Aaron B. Neal 
Shih Chun Ngiam 
Mark A. Nicholson 
Todd R. Okimoto 
Padmanabhan Pillai 
Matthew P. Rubai 
George C. Scott 
Gustavo Sganzerla 
Becky L. Sheridan 
Jeffrey D. Silvey 
Angela L. Snyder
Anshika Karamchandani ECE David T. Stott
Andrew Kim MEG
Mitchel L. Kotula MEG
Ozge H. Koymen ECE
Wesley C. Krsul CIV
Sum Yim S. Kung ECE
Connie Lew MSE
Wee Tee Lim ECE
Ferdinand J. Mack ECE
Cole Marino MEG
Lawrence J. Mathers CHE 
Steven P. Miller CHE
Rose E. Mills ECE
Scott A. Thompson 
Wei C. Tng 
E. J. Tsangaris 
Michael A. Varlas 
Patrick M. Walsh 
Nan Fong Wang 
Shane C. Wang 
Joseph J. Welser 
Andrew N. Westmeyer 
Brian E. Wiser 
Hiyung Yu 
Jeremy M. Zelsnack
CIV
MEG
CIV
MEG
ECE
MEG
CHE
ECE
CHE
ECE
ECE
ECE
CHE
ECE
ECE
CHE
CIV
ECE
ECE
ECE
MSE
CIV
ECE
ECE
JUNIORS
Anuj Agrawal ECE
Gabriel Brenna ECE
Gabriel N. Brinton MEG
Rebecca B. Buchheit CEE
Steven S. Burns MEG
TaekJ. Choi MEG
Bradley W. Dietrich ECE
Indra Djutrisno MEG
Bassem El-Dasher MEG
John G. Dorsey ECE
John W. Faistl ECE
Elias L. Fallon ECE
Stephen R. Fox CHE
Jin Lung Fung ECE
Samuel J. Gerstein ECE
Brian D. Hutsell ECE
Chad A. Jasiunas CHE
Chatchai Khunpitiluck ECE 
Jonathan F. Kleigman ECE
Timothy J. Kniveton ECE Faustino Santana ECE
Ideo M. Krisnanto MEG Vidi A. Saptari MEG
Horace H. Lau ECE Andrew L. Schnitgen CHE
Robert E. Long MEG Christine Shambach CHE/EPP
Stefan Lotter CHE
Sunil R. Maragh MEG
Emmett G. Matthews ECE 
Ann M. Mewherter CHE
Steven J. Meyers CHE
Michael S. Montemerlo ECE 
Matthew J. Myers ECE
Jon P. Nedel ECE
John A. O'Brien MSE
Luis J. Oms MEG
Ronald G. Polcawich MSE 
Stephanie L. Postal ECE
Patrick Rapin ECE
Uwe Remme CHE
Bohuslav Rychlik ECE
Ronak Singhal ECE 
Takefumi Someya MEG 
Michael E. Spena MEG 
Jennifer L. Stokes CHE 
Eugene R. Tabone CHE 
Edgardo Torres MEG 
Paul J. Tracy ECE
Gary B. Trendel CEE 
Stefan M. Walter CHE 
Benjamin L. Wang CHE 
Andrew Widodo MEG 
Andrew G. Willis ECE 
Clifford T. Wood MEG 
Erena Yamaguichi ECE 
Rudolph W. Yeung ECE 
Sebastian H. Ziesler ECE
SOPHOMORES
Bader K. Al-EssaMEGDamien F. DixonECEJeffrey R. MrenakECE
Gil AlterovitzECEKeith E. DuwelECEDilip Mujumdar MEG/EPP
Mark D. BedillionMEGUmar FarooqueCEEGlen C. OngECE
Eugene Z. BertaECEGarth R. GoodsonECEKaren Pinkston CEE/EPP
George A. BlahaMEGErik S. GrossECEPradya Prempraneerach MEG
Gregory P. BylenokECEDongran HaCEESteven SchkolneECE
Bryan G. CampoCHE/EPP Brian T. HoffmanCHE/EPP Timothy A. SeigerECE
Taipang ChaiCEEBrian J. IngramMSEAlan F. ShukairyCHE
Brian M. Christopher CHEElizabeth M. JacobsCEE/EPP Scott J. WeberECE
Lisa A. CookCHEAltug KoymenCHERichard A. Yavorsky ECE
Michael J. CurrieECEBryon P. KrugECE/EPP
Kris N. DahlCHEKendra McCoyCHE
FIRST YEAR
Chon Banphawatthanarak ECE Jeffrey M. HarperECETobin L. McDanielCHE
Michael F. Blackhurst CEEJeffrey D. HemphillCHEAdrienne Messenger CEE
Peter W. BoettcherECEChing-Kai HuangECEChris T. MesserCHE
Roger ByeECEJoseph C. HuangECETrevor C. Meyerowitz ECE
Scott J. CapeECELisa HuangECEJeremy J. MichalekMEG
Michael CarchiaECEDiego L. IglesiasECEAndrew C. MihalECE
Stephen J. ChinECEMohd Z. IsmailECEJohn I. MurrayCEE
Samuel P. ChongECERussell E. JosephECEAmy NgMEG
Kun-Wei ChouCEEWai KimECEKyle A. OppenheimECE
Christina K. ClementCHEBengliang KohECEDavid E. OrmsbyECE
John W. CressmanECEMichael W. KolbECEAndrew B. OxnardMEG
Elliott P. DelayeECEWesley M. KopackaCHEYun Kay A. PauECE
Kevin R. DixonECEKristopher Kriechbaum MEGNatalya PolyakovaECE
Blythe J. DunhamECETham Kriengchaiyapruk ECESkevos T. PsorasMEG
Brett A. FarmeryCHEBryan KruegerECEBenjamin R. PuglieseECE
Michael K. FenwickCHEVolkan KukrerECEJustin A. SerulneckECE
Amit FleischerECEJohn R. LangworthyECEAaron N. SiegelECE
David S. FriedmanECEChen-Li LinECEHarmit SinghECE
Andres GaleanoCOOJeffrey T. LinwoodCHEJacob I. SoboleffECE
Andrew J. CallantECETze Bin LohECEYoshiki ToriiCHE
Marian D. GoebesCEETan LuECEWilliam R. Towcimak CHI
Glen A. GuentherMSEAdam D. MadiganCHEIvan A. TumonovECE
Charles D. HardenECELawrence K. McCartin ECERebecca J. WehrerMSE

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 19965
Campus community celebrates opening of UC
Ceremonies present 
UC to students, staff
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
Jniverns er5Sc hfCcgr, afCo• 5Co• vilgr, oCsgrS rg,pnt pefv gr npe 
TCr,Ss 3CffD Opele ICs ylee ySSv Crv yir ySl Cff grbSfbevD
CEREMONIES, from page 1
Although people could be found 
in the UC all day, one of the 
highlights was the official open­
ing moment, a ribbon ceremony 
held in Kirr commons with an 
emphasis on audience participa­
tion. “I think the climactic mo­
ment was when Paul Christiano 
[CMU provost] had the ribbons 
released and people in the audi­
ence pulled them, and down came 
the banners. It was a great mo­
ment,” said Thomas McConomy, 
chairman of the board of trustees 
of CMU and a speaker at the 
ribbon ceremony.
After short comments by 
Mehrabian, McConomy and 
Christiano, ten long ribbons sus­
pended from the ceiling were re­
leased into the audience. Audi­
ence participants then pulled the 
ribbons, and ten tartan plaid ban­
ners unfurled into the middle of 
Kirr commons.
“We wanted an interactive 
opening ceremony. We wanted 
the community members to par­
ticipate, [since] it’s a building for 
the community, created by the 
community., we wanted to stress 
that ... [to make it] something 
symbolic, where the people could 
participate,” Moore said.
Eric Johnson, Vice President 
for development said, “I thought 
the opening ceremonies were 
wonderful, but I also think over 
the past few weeks, as I’ve 
watched the students arrive, 
[there’s] just been a wonderful 
feeling. It’s a great way to start 
off the semester.”
“I spoke with a number of stu­
dents, and they said they thought 
the entire atmosphere of the cam­
pus had changed, which I thought 
was great,” said McConomy. “Ev­
eryone is using [the University 
Center].”
CMU students, faculty and 
staff who attended the morning 
ceremonies were treated to 
bands of all styles, ranging from 
classical to rock. In the after­
noon, there were activities such 
as athletic exhibitions, Xavier 
the robot and open houses in 
staff offices. Doug Cooper, the 
artist responsible for the sec­
ond floor mural was also on hand 
to provide an official tour of his 
artwork. The ribbon ceremony 
was held at 4:30, and in the 
evening there was a reception 
for UC faculty and staff donors. 
The nighttime festivities took 
on the air of a great party, with 
free t-shirts, free food, and 
prizes. There was a jazz band in 
Skibo Coffeehouse, as well as 
casino games and tarot card 
readers. And cardboard repli­
cas of Andrew Carnegie and An­
drew Mellon were available all 
day for photo opportunities.
“What Til remember most 
about the UC opening day cer­
emonies is seeing a whole lot of 
people with smiles on their faces. 
I think the day was great fun. It 
had something for everyone,” 
said Don Hale, vice president of 
University relations. “Where 
else on the planet could you get 
•your photo taken with two big 
money guys like Carnegie and 
Mellon?”
Johnson added, “I thought it 
was wonderful.... It was a de­
lightful occasion to inaugurate 
what is going to be a real center­
piece of campus activity.”
UC provides many services
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
Ope 2ghe Crv ?liM YCrv ICgn Sinsgve jgll oSMMSrs nS MC•e npegl 
ernlCroe gr npe Shergr, oeleMSrgesD
Do you have an eating disorder?
Ope kernel ySl UbeloSMgr, 2lSafeM .Cngr, FkU2.- 
Cn mesnelr 2scopgCnlgo 4rsngnine Crv kfgrgo see•s 
bSfirneels ySl C leseClop snivc Sy aifgMgC relbSsCD
Ope snivc gs aegr, vSre nS nesn pSI Ieff Cr e7helgMernCf 
MevgoCngSr ISl•s nS pefh hlebern leoilleroe Sy aifgMgC 
relbSsC Sbel Sre ceClD 4y cSi agr,e eCn Crv hil,e Crv 
Cle C,e Bx Sl Sfvelt cSi MCc GiCfgyc nS hClngoghCneD Opele 
gs rS oSsn nS cSi nS hClngoghCneD OS feClr MSle CaSin npgs 
snivct hfeCse oCff 2errc klSssCr Cn 89«1’'x«D
University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center
UC, from page 1
of which are lounges or social spaces. Others are athletic or retail 
spaces.
Overall, the building is meant to fulfill a number of needs that 
Carnegie Mellon has experienced for some time. “It [the UC] was 
intended to be a mixed use building which would serve the body, 
the mind, and the spirit,” said architect Michael Dennis of Michael 
Dennis & Associates, the Boston firm that designed the University 
Center, in a Carnegie Mellon News article.
For the Mind
In the University Center, there are many open, undefined 
spaces where students have been congregating and relaxing. Kirr 
Commons is the first thing you’ll see as you walk into the UC from ' 
the Merson Courtyard. The Danforth Lounge overlooks Gesling 
stadium and forms the cylindrical eastern-most extension to the 
building, and serves as another multipurpose room.
Several other meeting areas in the building include eight confer­
ence rooms on the second floor. Additionally, 40 Student Organi­
zations have offices on the third floor of the UC, while WRCT has 
relocated its studios in the basement.
For the Body
The Adamson Retail Complex occupies the northwest corner of 
the building on both the basement and first floors. In its new home, 
the 9,450 square-foot University Shoppe and Textbook Store 
occupy two floors, and sell merchandise, supplies, and textbooks.
On the basement level of the 
UC lives the art store. En­
tropy, CMU’s convenience 
store, has been relocated to 
the first floor of the UC, adja­
cent to the upper level of the 
University Shoppe.
Dining Options
Dining in the University 
Center affords several chpices. 
Aside from the convenience- 
store items, including coffee 
available from Entropy, the 
University Center is home to 
vendors from around the Pitts­
burgh area. The eateries in­
clude The Original Hot Dog 
Shop, a Pittsburgh staple; the 
Sweet News Cafe, which car­
ries Starbucks coffee; Ali 
Baba, serving Middle East­
ern foods; The Bagel Factory;
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor Si Señor which serves Mexi- 
Jniverns er5Sc uelsSr kSilncClv can foods; Sweet Sensations, 
vilgr, npe IClM IeCnpelD which includes The Cheese-
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor 
jgll oSMMSrs gs CfleCvc hlSbgr, nS ae C sSogCf shSn ySl snivernsD
cake Factory, Dave and Andy’s Ice Cream, Betsy Ann Chocolates, 
and CK’s Pretzel Works; Chic-Hens, a rôtisserie chicken restau­
rant; Papa J’s Italian foods; and Grab & Go fresh salads and foods. 
These eateries are all located on the first and second floors, and are 
flanked by the Hawkins Dining Room and the GM and Foster 
Dining Rooms, respectively.
Other eating establishments include the Skibo Coffeehouse, 
formerly Scotland Yard, and the Schatz Dining Room, the new 
faculty dining room.
Play Time
Aside from the 14,950 square-foot Wiegand Gymnasium, the 
athletics facilities include six raquetball and squash courts (four 
on the first floor and two on the second), a fitness center featuring 
stair climbers, rowing and cross-country skiing machines, tread­
mills, bikes, and a complete circuit of Cybex weights. In addition, 
there is an activity room for aerobics and similar classes.
The Lord Aquatics Center includes a 16,550 square foot Natato- 
rium housing a 25-yard lap pool and a 12-foot nine-inch deep 
diving well. In addition, the area has men’s and women’s whirl­
pools and steam rooms.
For the Spirit
The Wright-Rogal Chapel is a multi-denominational sanctuary 
for services, and features a stained-glass window suggesting the 
Tartan plaid. The area around the chapel is comprised of office 
space for the various campus ministries for administration, busi­
ness, and counseling purposes.
Rangos Hall, the 10,100 square foot ballroom, divides into three 
mutually independent sections for simultaneous programming.
The McConomy Auditorium offers seating for 450, and is suited 
with two Image Light Amplification Projectors, which are capable 
of producing brighter and cleaner images than a CRT projector. 
The facility in its entirety has an intelligent lighting and control­
ling system.
Your homework 
just got easier.
;knfU6l jDOAP'p \f K,
pSMeISl• hlSafeMs Cle rS MCnop ySl npe reI 
lefeCse Sy Mathematica WDUD dse gn Cs eCsgfc Cs C oCfoifCnSlt 
ain nCo•fe oSMhinCngSrs Srfc Mathematica oCr pCrvfeD LSi oCr 
V_f eber sSfbe hlSafeMs vgleonfc ylSM cSil ne7naSS•s Crv Cssg,r1
MernsD Mathematica's reIAppro xiaHrtisf cm integra!
^Approx=!><*>By
Tiát h ffprwMTat WituUy bcknr. 
Xc««4as«ud^*aB»l<>t[2~~!-, Ik. t.Wt, 19|ji
V*
Jails* ¦
f~«L.Ü»
x>D.“
<£)¦ tal
xj.ji - *
ainnSrs Crv hCfennes hlSbgve 
Gigo• hSgrn1Crv1ofgo• Cooess nS 
npSisCrvs Sy yirongSrst ySlMiK
fCst Crv MCnpeMCngoCf scMaSfsD
mpenpel cSil oSilses Cle 
gr er,greelgr,t oCfoifist snCngsngost 
ygrCroet opeMgsnlct hpcsgost agSfS,ct hscopSfS,ct Sl Crc Snpel 
ygefv Sy snivc Ipele oCfoifCngSr gs leGiglevt Mathematica for Students gs 
Ieff signev ySl cSil reevsD 0ess sShpgsngoCnev
neoprgoCf sSynICle hlS,lCMs Srfc Syyel fgMgnevt snlghhev1vSIr snivern belsgSrst ain 
Mathematica for Students ,gbes cSi e7Confc npe sCMe1hSIel Crv yirongSrCfgnc Cs 
Sil hlSyessgSrCf belsgSrt hleyellev Cn feCvgr, oSlhSlCngSrst irgbelsgngest Crv 
,SbelrMern Sl,Crg(CngSrs ISlfvIgveD |gsgn cSil fSoCf oCMhis aSS•snSle Sl oCff 
mSfylCM TeseClop CnH B PtxUU1w«WPw8gf8
WOLFRAMRESEARCH
http://www.wolfram.<om/«du<ation-<np
Mortiemohio foi Students is ovoiloble lo oil currently enrolled full-time students. Student identification required, Mathematica lor Students is ovoiloble on Macintosh, Microsoft Windows, ond Linux systems. 
Aiodemk discounts ore ovoiloble for professional versions of Mathemotico on all personal computers, workstations, and supercomputers, lob ond site programs are also ovoiloble
r mb«htanlnaih ki tWwrrng a a «rierot d HJm Irxxk. to itfnr»: W trami HBftctrti hki tiusdi. I* «h.lre U c4« rcr*! rt^crti cri JaVrcii ti ett pedXM

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
kClre,ge ueffSr drgbelsgncW JehneMael B''8
U. Center gives 
campus new life
Carnegie Mellon has a new cam­
pus focal point. After two years of 
construction and $47 million, the 
University Center, long expected 
to solve many of the University’s 
dining, programming, and other 
problems, is finally completed. As 
the novelty of the UC deterriorates 
and the building begins to as­
sume its daily role in campus life, 
we must take off the rose-colored 
glasses, and take a good close look 
at the newest feature of CMU’s 
campus.
The UC is intended to serve 
many different audiences at CMU ; 
from staff, to administration, to 
students, the UC is meant to exist 
for all.
This strategy begs the question: 
how well does the UC perform its 
multiple roles?
We have noticed that while the 
UC is a great accomplishment for 
CMU and that while everyone 
should be greatful for it, the build­
ing is not without its flaws. It 
seems that while compromises 
were made to try to make this 
building answer EVERY audi­
ence, some of the facilities may 
have suffered.
However, although there are 
problems, with open minds and 
flexibility, we can work out the 
details that seem problematic, 
and, after everything that has 
gone into this building, the cam­
pus can have a true center.
The University Center is a 
great acheivement and ace for 
Carnegie Mellon, and the suc­
cess of the building far out­
weighs the sorts of flaws that 
are starting to turn up.
Furthermore, something ex­
traordinary has happened over 
the last week. Go to Kirr Com­
mons, or to the Merson Court­
yard, or to the GM Dining Room. 
You’ll notice something. Fac­
ulty, Staff Members, and espe­
cially Students. They’re not 
studying, researching, or teach­
ing.
Instead, they’re taking time 
out to sit down and eat, or talk 
with a few friends, or read a 
book in a comfortable leather 
chair. .
And now they have a place to 
do it, finally, after decades. 
Thank you to all those who have 
made it possible.
^ ALvÁté Tell wjjo^
AH iffî&aJ&PM B&ÄU&
\4lOT AUflfll^ !£•••
©
Salutations and Greetings
James LaPaglia Pres. Mehrabian
The Campus Police Department ex­
tends a warm welcome to all Carnegie 
Mellon students, both returning and 
newly enrolled.
Part of the Campus Police mission is to 
provide a safe and secure environment in 
which students can live, learn, and enjoy 
the university experience.
Carnegie Mellon University is a very 
safe campus. Part of the reason ours is a 
safe campus is our strong campus crime 
prevention program. Crime prevention 
requires team work.
We need the participation of all com­
munity members to share the responsi­
bility to make our campus as safe and 
secure as we can. You are an important 
member of that team.
The Campus Police Department looks 
forward to working with each of you 
during this school year. If you have any 
questions or concerns about campus 
safety, our office is located in Room 100, 
Student Center. You can learn more by 
visiting our new Web Page at http:// 
www.security.andrew.cmu.edu.
James LaPaglia is Chief of the Carnegie 
Mellon Campus Police Department.
Carnegie Mellon has earned a position 
among the top rank of national research 
universities. And while we continue to 
build our reputation in research and 
broaden our impact on our community 
and society, we must remain focused on 
our highest priority, the education of our 
students. We must continue to work at 
making the Carnegie Mellon experience, 
enjoyable and rewarding for all under­
graduates.
Robert Mehrabian is President of 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Michael Murphy
Congratulations and welcome to all 
first-year students! You join us with great 
talent and a history of success, and you 
will become an important part of the 
fabric of this institution over your years 
here.
To excel here, you need only maintain 
the standards you have already set for 
yourself. There are three particular quali­
ties which typify Carnegie Mellon alumni, 
students, and members of this commu­
nity: integrity, compassion and hard
work. Maintain these three without com­
promise and your life here, and the lives 
of those around you, will be rich beyond 
compare. You are the best and the bright­
est, and you share this community with 
the best and the brightest. Have a great 
year.
Michael Murphy is Dean of Student 
Affairs.
Peter Stearns
One of the many things I love about 
academic life is the seasonality, with the 
return of students a time of excitement 
and renewal. The opportunity to meet 
and teach a talented group of new stu­
dents is the key ingredient. My own first 
college year was an experience of learn­
ing unlike any I had before or since (along 
with no small amount of anxiety), as I 
realized how much there was to know 
and (on the whole) how invigorating it 
was to get some handle on new vantage 
points. I wish the same friendly chal­
lenge for CMU’s important group of en­
tering students.
Peter Stearns is dean of H&SS. All 
comments were solicited by The Tartan.First-year students kSfiMrgsn e7CMgres MSlCfgnct MSSse pirngr,
must receive housing
To alleviate the traditional 
shortage of campus housing avail­
able for freshmen this year, up­
perclassmen were given the op­
portunity to take on an extra 
roommate for an incentive, or 
move off-campus with a reim­
bursement of their housing de­
posits.
While this solution helped the 
reduce the problem to an extent, 
the majority of homeless fresh­
men were placed off-campus or in 
the Hampton Inn until other ar­
rangements could be made.
While living in a campus dormi­
tory has its benefits for all stu­
dents, it is especially important 
for freshmen to be a part of the 
campus environment in order to 
ease the transition into college 
life.
On-campus dormitories provide 
the necessary environment for 
freshmen to foster good habits 
and strong relationships (it has 
often proven that the friendships 
made during the first year are 
often among a student’s stron­
gest).
Proximity to campus makes it 
easier for freshmen to take ad­
vantage of campus resources, such 
as late night study areas in Hunt 
library or coffee breaks during an 
all-nighter at Skibo Coffeehouse.
Upperclassmen have generally 
settled into a comfort zone, not 
needing the security that often 
comes from on campus housing 
facilities. Yet asking students to 
abandon their housing accommo­
dations after the fact is not the 
answer.
Instead, placing freshmen with 
other freshmen should be a prior­
ity of the University Housing Of­
fice, since upperclassmen gener­
ally tend to have different goals 
and agendas than freshmen. Hav­
ing other freshmen to study for a 
first midterm with, attend a first 
party with, make a decision to
rush with, or to just talk about 
similar concerns definitely 
makes a difference in the social 
development of students.
Furthermore, all freshmen of 
age (or their parents, if they are 
minors) are required to sign a 
legally binding housing contract 
which guarantees them a space 
in a specific on-campus facility 
for the forthcoming year. The 
Housing Office should be ex­
pected to follow through on the 
contract just as all resident stu­
dents are.
An obvious solution is already 
in planning -— to build two new 
dormitories. As these dorms are 
being planned, housing and the 
University Planning and Devel­
opment Office should avoid 
building high-end, hotel-like, ex­
pensive accommodations like 
Resnik and West Wing. Al­
though these residencies are 
quite nice, they are relatively 
unattainable by freshman (up­
perclassmen always get the bet­
ter spaces).
Instead, new dorms should be 
standard dormitories where two 
students share a room and have 
a semi-private lavatory. Thus, 
upperclassmen will not snatch- 
up the new facilities and fresh­
man and sophomores will have 
a chance at newer, more decent 
accommodations.
Each year the housing di­
lemma grows as does the num­
ber of freshmen; it’s time to find 
a solution that takes place now 
instead of sometime in the fu­
ture.
A student’s first few months of 
college life at CMU should not 
be centered around the room- 
service hours of a hotel. Though 
it is difficult for the Administra­
tion to predict how many stu­
dents will accept invitations to 
CMU, emphasis on proper hous­
ing must be increased.
Douglas Howe
For some, I’m anyone even do it? Then I’d say, “Can the Make-A-Wish 
sure, returning Foundation grant a wish like that? When did helping a kid 
to CMU after a fund a trip to the Magic Kingdom turn into an overpowering 
long, boring moral force that decides what’s okay for an eight-year-old kid 
summer of to do?”
working at an After quickly disregarding the legality of it, I thought of the
unrewardingin- humanity of it all. Even if it was okay for moose to be hunted 
ternship where whenever, is that the kind of wish we want to be granting 
you don’t get some kid? Whose fault is that for putting ideas like that in a 
kid’s head? Then of course, the Foundation steps in and says, 
“We’ll give you whatever you want, just as long as it’s okay for 
us to film it all, document each second of it, so that we can get 
more money and investors to support our worthy cause of 
supporting the murder of American wildlife.” Who knows
paid and all your rights are violated, all in the name of ass- 
kissing and progress, is a welcome invitation. All of their 
thoughts, opinions, and theories on the Conventions and the 
Exploding Planes and the Olympics and whether it was 
hotter this year than last and so on, are all burbling inside 
their heads, waiting to rush forth like the mighty rivers of what’s next. Game hunting in Africa? Then the redneck hick, 
British Columbia. Their pens are poised, their computers gun freaks step in, shouting something about rights and 
are reheating, and their fingers are loose. freedom and the constitution, which they repeat over and over
again because their third grade education won’t allow them to 
think of anything else to say.
As a sidebar, I’ll tell you why I won’t continue bashing the 
gun freaks. On my trip cross-country, my roommate and I 
were driving somewhere in Minnesota, in the rain, very fast 
phrases “Unemployment! Waiter! Welfare! Bob Dole for (75-80mph),rightnexttothismiddle-agedgentlemanandhis 
President!” and let me tell you, I was scared. So here I am wife, who were towing a boat behind their pick-up truck. This
Alas, I once again don’t fall into that category. In fact, I had 
an incredible summer. I drove cross-country and then taught 
acting at Northwestern. I was not looking forward to return­
ing to school, with the fear that this is my last year and that 
‘real life” is looming around the corner, whispering the
“So the moral of the story, if you have 
to piss off gun people, learn how to 
weave and duck."
again, staring at a 
nearly empty com­
puter page, wondering 
things like, “What’s the 
meaning of life?,”
“Where am I headed?,”
“Is the woman my 
brother is marrying in 
October as white-
trashy as we all think she is?,” “Where did all the time go?,” 
and “Do I even remember how to use the printer?” So, for 
your viewing pleasure, I decided to answer all those ques­
tions, so I can get over them and start doing whatever it is 
that I do that takes up so much damn space in the paper. The 
answers are as follows: 3, west, yes, out the back door, and 
no. Moving on....
This morning, as I woke up for my noon class, there was a 
story on the radio that could only be coming from the ‘Burgh. 
A child, no more than ten, was a part of the Make-A-Wish 
Foundation. For those of you who live under a rock and don’t 
support PBS, Make-A-Wish is an organization that helps 
children with fatal ailments live out their dying dream. Now 
usually, the kid wants to go to Disneyland or fly in a plane 
before they head out, but this yinzer kid wants to hunt, 
shoot, and kill a moose before his time expires. And because 
the American media is so incredibly starved for interesting 
and important stories, being that bombs exploding every­
where every twenty minutes isn’t that continually exciting, 
they picked up on this tale of tragedy and sorrow quicker 
than a hooker picks up tricks at the Republican National 
Convention. (Which is actually a fact — prostitutes work 
more at the Republican Convention than at the Democratic. 
They say their tips are bigger than Democrats and they like 
more of the kinky, “whips and chains” stuff. Who knew Kemp 
had that ol’ football spirit in him?) So this kid wants to kill 
a moose and there’s a big uproar of whether he should be 
allowed to do it. Some say that it’s wrong to kill a moose or 
anything else, but a bunch of NRA rednecks from the Local 
184 are supporting the kid’s right to a dying wish and even 
had a rally downtown on Thursday for him.
Now, I don’t know much about the rules, regulations, and 
by-laws of hunting, but my first question would be, “Is it even 
legal to hunt moose?” Not that what the government says 
really means much to me, but just out of curiosity, can
guy started screaming 
and honking and waving 
at us, trying to get us to 
pull over and let him 
pass. Well, we weren’t 
about to do whatever, 
we’re told to do, especially 
by some guy towing a mo­
tor boat. I gave him the 
finger out the passenger window, while my roommate gunned 
it. The dude started racing after us, top speed, with the boat 
tow flying all over the road. As he came up along side, he 
looked at me and pointed to the back of his car. Then he hit the 
gas until he passed us a bit, and that’s when I saw it. The 
cuxnper sticker. It said, “Freedom Wasn’t Won With a Regis­
tered Gun.” That’s when we decided to let him pass. We had 
two pocket knives, but chose to let that one go. So the moral 
of the story, if you have to piss off gun people, learn how to 
weave and duck.
If indeed this is allowed or passed into rule or whatever, 
what I’m going try to do is get a hold of this little kid with the 
death wish and tell him a story. A story about another little 
boy who was very sick and asked his mommy and daddy if he 
could hunt, shoot, and kill a big, brown bear before he himself 
kicked it. After much thought and much NRA endorsement, 
the little boy was allowed to have a gun and kill the bear. He 
went out into the woods all alone, except for the seventy Make- 
A-Wish Foundation delegates and two hundred thirty-four 
members of the press, where he found a bear drinking in a 
near-by stream and shot it. It died right there on the spot and 
everybody was happy. They stuffed it and mounted it in the 
little boy’s hospital room before he died. His last words were, 
“Thank you for letting me murder the bear.” Then as he was 
on his way to heaven, he met karma on the way, who appeared 
in the shape of a big, brown bear and ate him. The End!
To quote They Might Be Giants, “I returned a bag of 
groceries accidentally taken off the shelf before the expiration 
date. I came back as a bag of groceries accidentally taken off 
the shelf before the date stamped on myself.” If you don’t 
know, don’t screw with it. And fate and death and karma are 
some of the biggies. Kid, go to Disneyland. Have a last, blast 
blow out, and remember, aim for Mickey’s chest.
Doug Howe is a senior Drama major.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 19967
Bad attitudes shade campus
Editor's Notebook
The phrase echoes through ev­
ery corner on campus, from 
Hamerschlag to Hamburg Hall. 
We hear the words chanted by 
students from every class, every 
college. The “cult” has made these 
words its motto and they spread 
the Word to every incoming stu­
dent they meet: ------------
“CMU sucks.”
And to the few, the 
proud, the strong who 
retaliate exclaiming,
“Bullshit!” I give my 
praise.
If only those “cult”
members could open _______
their eyes to what this 
campus offers. If only they would 
get out of their clusters and meet 
each other, join some of the hun­
dreds of organizations and dedi­
cate themselves to something 
other than textbooks and studios, 
then maybe, just maybe, they 
could catch a glimpse of the 
beauty of plaid.
If only they could get over the 
stereotypes and, for example, 
maybe check out the fraternities 
and sororities. If they were just 
given a chance, you would soon 
find that they are a group of strong 
CMU men and women leaders. A 
group who do a heck of a lot more 
than “party.” .Joining with them 
offers a chance for personal 
growth and friendship.
But, of course, not everyone has 
to “go Greek.”
CMU works hard to continu­
ously have activities available for 
all of us, from an amazing week- 
long Orientation to International 
Festivals to Carnival. We should 
add to that list all the varied
organizations available from ball­
room dancing to Scotch ‘N’ Soda 
and a million more.
How about sports? Okay, so 
CMU is not the hot spot for sport 
gurus, but it does offer the oppor­
tunity to play practically every 
kind. And, isn’t the point to have 
fun? Go see a football game one of 
these weekends and take a friend. 
Be careful, you might just enjoy 
yourself.
And even better than the ac­
tivities found on campus are the 
people here.
“Some of the most amazing 
people we will ever know attend 
this school. Here we find minds 
for every field imaginable...”
Some of the most amazing 
people we will ever know attend 
this school. Here we find minds 
for every field imaginable; people 
who soak up whatever they get 
their hands on, and master it. We 
are surrounded by some of the 
most brilliant and ambitious fac­
ulty and students.
I know that since I’ve been here, 
I have learned so much about 
myself because of the people who 
make up CMU. I have met people 
with so much ambition and pas­
sion, who help me ingnite my 
own. These people have helped 
me realize my potential and, in 
the meantime, have become my 
friends.
I think this school has that spe­
cial spark in its diversity that 
allows us to learn so much, even 
outside of class. We could learn so 
much by just sharing our part in 
the diversity.
We seperate ourselves by col­
leges here and create stereotypes 
for the “typical” CFA, Computer
Science, or H& “Less Stress” stu­
dents. Get over it. Imagine how 
beneficial it would be for a com­
puter scientist to become great 
friends with an artist, or for a 
mathematician to truly appreci­
ate poetry.
This is what CMU is all about, 
if we only allowed it to be.
And beyond academics, there 
are people here from almost ev­
ery culture and background, with 
different experiences, accom­
plishments, and values.
To come to this school and not
________________ learn from
each other is 
a shame. For 
people to come 
to this school 
hoping to find 
what they had 
at home is 
only begging 
for disap­
pointment, because the diversity 
that makes up Carnegie Mellon 
is unlike any other community.
It is incomprehensible for me 
to hear students mindlessly chant 
along with the “cult” without 
truly giving this place a chance. 
People who accept the rumor and 
play along, joining the “cult” along 
with the others never allow them­
selves to see what there truly is. 
Instead of endlessly complaining, 
why don’t these students get off 
their ass and start making a 
change.
I could bet that if these stu­
dents would step out of their 
bubble, join in the diversity and 
taste what this place has to offer, 
they would soon be singing loudly 
when they hear the ever-famous 
chant of “CMU sucks”:
“Bullshit.”
Jenny Garcia de Osuna is as­
sistant Forum Editor. Her opin­
ions do not reflect those of The 
Tartan board of editors.
Writer gains cynicism
Tom Harper
I’ll spare everyone the 
wishes, of happy summers 
and great starts to the new 
semester. Why?
Simple. I am now officially 
cynical. I think this is how 
the administration wants 
you to become: When you’re cynical you tend not to complain too 
much, since you could care less about complaining, and life here 
goes on as usual. It’s all part of the grand scheme of things.
Say, for instance, while I’m writing this column here on these 
spiffy new PCs in Cyert that are corrupted with Microsoft 
Windows NT 4,1 get some stupid message that says instruction 
“0:blahblahblah” has somehow violated some obscure process 
only found in these cursed Microsoft OSs and I either have to 
shut: down the whole blasted system or debug it.
I choose to debug it and then continue on typing my column 
here. Wow, neat. I guess I can’t complain too much then, since 
Windows 3.1 would have me shut the whole thing down no 
matter what.
So, in an attempt to be less cynical in light of that incident, I 
thought I’d tell you of the time I went to Toronto this summer. 
I know I can relate that to everyone without all the cynicism.
Plus, I had a hell of a lot of fun there.
I went to Toronto to, of all things, play video games. I know 
what you’re thinking right now. “Why’d he spend $300 on bus 
fare and accommodations just to play video games?”
There was a Virtua Fighter 2 tournament being held amongst 
people I’d met over the Internet. We even had people coming in 
from Vancouver, and a couple of guys came in from Singapore. 
I thought that was pretty neat, so I decided to go.
The trip up there was a real blast, even though it was a little 
long. I left our local Greyhound terminal around noon. The trip 
was uneventful until we stopped at Mercer about 100 miles 
north of here. That’s when the Amish people got on.Now, for the 
next ten minutes I had to wonder what Amish people were doing 
riding a Greyhound bus. And so in my uninformed fashion I 
concluded that they were ‘‘Liber at ed Amish.” That is, they could 
use technology but still had to wear the basic Amish uniform.
They did speak German. They also clustered around each 
other near the front of the bus. Safety in numbers, I suppose. I 
looked at my collection of tapes I had brought along, and to 
commemorate this momentous occasion,- what better thing to 
throw in my headphones than Weird Al’s “Amish Paradise?” 
And when we arrived at the Erie bus station they sat waiting 
right in front of me, facing me. Now, I was in my black hat, black 
trenchcoat, black pants, and black shoes.
They tried not to make eye contact. Meanwhile I was so close 
to cracking up because there I was listening to “Amish Paradise” 
while actual Amish folk were sitting right in front of me. I also 
sat and stared straight ahead past them for good measure.
Please see TORONTO, page 8
Democrats deflect media flack while Republicans villified
James Stepanek
| Greetings all. This is not only the start 
of another school year, but also of the 
[ campaign season. We are coming into the 
j final stretch of the ‘96 Presidential elec- 
t tion, and it appears that the race has 
I become quite close. Of course, I’d wager 
that it wouldn’t be so close if the news 
j media gave a damn about the truth.
I know, you are going to say I’m just 
having a conservative knee jerk response 
to favorable coverage of the President. 
Fine, you can believe what you will, but 
the facts do back me up. The simple truth 
of the matter is that Clinton seems to be 
able to get away with anything. The GOP, 
on the other hand, can’t even get their 
convention message out without talking 
heads and Democrat responses cutting up 
the message even before it’s delivered.
Take the latest Clinton scandal as an 
example: Filegate (is it me or is everyone 
getting sick of this stupid practice of nam­
ing a scandal “something-gate?”). This is a 
huge crime. Yes, I said crime. The actions 
by the Clinton Administration (or mem-
bers thereof) in this regard are felonies. 
One of Nixon’s staffers went to prison for 
doing a similar act, but only with one file. 
Clinton’s people have about 1,000.
For those of you who haven’t kept up 
with this particular scandal, what has 
happened has been gross violations of 
people’s privacy by the White House. A 
couple of political hacks for the Demo­
cratic party were given the job of doing 
background checks at the White House. 
(In previous administrations the position 
had been filled by a security officer.) Once 
in this position ,they used the power of the 
job to request and receive a large number 
of confidential FBI and 1RS files on people 
for the ostensible purpose of doing back­
ground checks in case they were going to 
visit the White House. Of course one has 
to wonder why most of the files found were 
on Republicans, most of whom are not 
likely to receive an invite from this ad­
ministration before the next ice age. This 
is a blatant example of abusing the power 
of the executive branch to dig up dirt for 
political purposes.
Do you think any Republican president 
could have gotten away with this? It’s not 
bloody likely. There would have been 
screams for impeachment coming from 
every talking head in the news media
following a microscopic examination of 
every issue involved. What have we got­
ten? — just about nothing. The issue, 
which is a colossal abuse of Presidential 
power, has been allowed to wither on the 
vine due to media disinterest.
Now you could make a-lame defense 
that the media is just colossally lazy or 
incompetent, but their bias so easily dem­
onstrated that claims of impartiality are 
simply laughable.
How many of you watched the GOP 
convention? I watched some of it. The 
pathetic way that the major networks and 
CNN covered it was enough to make you 
scream. There was many a speech during 
which the talking head on the tube would 
take us to another talking head to lecture 
us on his impression. Why? I have no idea. 
None of them said anything useful or 
interesting. Why couldn’t we just hear the 
speech? Why couldn’t they save the com­
ments for when the speech was finished?
Then there was the “Democrat Truth 
Squad,” which was probably given equal 
time to the Republican speakers. Heck, 
the networks had the Democrats respond­
ing to speeches before they were even 
over.
Is this occurring at the Democratic con­
vention? Of course not. The GOP has a
person in town who has press conferences 
once a day to rebut things but that’s about 
it. Not a hint of bias here — right?
The simple truth of the matter is that 
the media is so biased that it has effec­
tively become a propaganda wing of the 
Clinton administration. Polls have shown 
that 80% of the news media voted for 
Clinton, and less than 10% voted for Bush. 
When one major player in the media actu­
ally pointed this out, the rest leaped on 
him like a rabid pack of wolves. If a simple 
thing like an unbiased media existed in 
this country, I would have expected the 
Clinton administration to have been given 
the boot a while ago. The sheer number of 
scandals that have plagued the adminis­
tration is almost beyond counting, yet they 
keep chugging along with the press fawn­
ing over everything they say, even the 
blatant falsehoods.
The only bright spot in all this is the fact 
that Clinton’s character has to finally catch 
up with him. I don’t think the electorate is 
likely to. fall for his glib tongue any more. 
Granted, polls don’t show things going my 
way right now. Then again the polls said 
the Democrats would win easily in 1994.
Stepanek is a PhD student in Materials 
Science and Engineering.
While you were away, some- Paul M. Jones
thing strange happened: the 
big hole in the Cut was taken 
over by a building. In honor 
of this occassion, we asked: 
What do you think of the 
University Center?
Senior 
Civ E
“It’s cool to have it, but I’m 
over it now.”
Alec Flett
Senior
CS
“It’s kind of sterile. There’s no 
color: it’s two- or three-tone. 
That’s about it.”
Stacey Swift 
Stacey Levi 
Regan Sotherd 
Sophomores 
Drama
“It’s badass.”
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Sugar
Sophomore
IS
“While it’s no nest made out of 
ripped up carpet or a nice nook 
scented with catnip, it certainly 
is nice.”
A PERSON’S
OPINION
THE TARTAN
Camegle Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
.vD1gr1kpgeyDD jerrenp &D jlCeMel 
uCrC,gr, .vD 6rvleI uo?elMSnn
Yisgress uCrC,elDDDDDDDDD6Mgn jCl
)eIs .vgnSlDDDDDDYeo•c 6DkSIsel
NSliM .vgnSlDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD&Spr Yg,,s
JhSlns .vgnSlDDDDDDDDDDD2Cif YSSnpe
NeCniles .vgnSlDDDDDDDDDDDDDJpClMffC
|er•CnCsiaaCr
?gbelsgSrs .vgnSlDDDDDDDDDD.rC jpCr
kCfervCl .vgnSlDDDDDDjerrenp NfC,,
?Sssgel ?s,rD .vsD0CilC |CllCopg
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD2CifgrC Yelo(crs•g
?Sssgel 0gnD .vDDDDDDjebgr ueepCr
6ln kS1.vgnSlDDDDDRCalger JcMSrs
6ln kS1.vgnSlDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDJgMSrC 0S
2pSnS .vgnSlDDDDD&CsSr Jge,ervSly
2lSviongSr u,lD.fg(Caenp )eiMCr 
6vbelngsgr, uCrC,el kpfrnCr JpCp
JcsneMs uCrC,elDDDDDDDDDDDB12gr, 0g
kShc uCrC,elDDDDDDmgrnel uCsSr
6ssnD )eIs .vgnSlDDDD kplgs kCrrSr 
6ssnD NeCniles .vgnSlDDDD&ifee mpgne 
6ssnD ?gbelsgSrs .vDDDD &Cc ugSffC
6ssnD JhSlns .vDDDDDDD?CIr 2Chi,C
6ssnD NSliM .vgnSl &errc RClogC 
ve UsirC
?Cl•lSSM uCrC,elDDDD &gM Jrcvel 
2elsSrref u,lDDDDDDDDD.lgo JCf(MCr
kSrnlgaingr, .vgnSls 
uCnnpeI JSfgnlS
JergSl JnCyy 
Rgf 6fnelSbgn(t &CsSr 6rvlCo•gt 
uCnn YCff
JnCyyIlgnels 
LSsey YglraSfMt Jnebe kpClrSiagt 
OSMMckpeir,t6rreMClge ?ebgret 
TcCr ?SrSbCrt OSM 3Clhelt 
6vCM jfgbCrst mfCvgMgl 
0Caef•Sbs•ct 6fe7 0eIgrt OlebSl 
uecelSIgn(t ?g((c uilhpct OlCoc 
Uvefft &Sr Ullgst Jivpgl Tevvct ?Cr 
TSserael,t TSrC•Jgr,pCft &CMes 
JnehCre•t &essgoC Jnlegyet JCbgn 
OeIClgt 6rvleI mCr,t JisCr 
mCnsSrt YlCvfec *gMMelMCr
6ln
TcCr TpSCvs
kSMgos
6•glC3Cse,CICt3glSMg 3Cse,CICt
2pSnS
?gCrC YClnSfSnnCt .fg(Caenp 
jCrCaet RisnCbS J,Cr(elfCt
?Cl•lSSM 
6Mc klgsnSMSt .fgCs NCffSrt JoSnn 
3esst 3efer 3iCr,t kClfC Jelerc
2lSviongSr 
Jneber kpCg
kShc
0Slg YSIest ugMg kper,t 4bSl 
kfCl•et ?Cbe .ffMCrt 3eferC 
uoRCpC,Crt |gonSl Ulne,Ct 
kCnpelgre Jervelfgr,
Yisgress 
2CnlgogC ?gRgisehhgt Jnehper 3si
&irgSl JnCyy 
kplgs 6vi•Cgngst mgff 4serpSilt 
jerrenp )CM•ir,t 6MCrvC 
JheClt mgff mSSv
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is aweekly 
newspaper published by students dur­
ing the fall and spring semesters, at no 
cost to members of the University com­
munity. It is printed by Western Pennsyl­
vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available forthe semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons 
are the opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to reject 
or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opin­
ions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publi­
cation must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 500 
words. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter. Copyright 
© 1996 by The Tartan. The Tartan 
editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy It 
deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: 412/268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890
Funded In part by your Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN 
#: 0890-3107. M
TheTartanisamemberof Jnam 
the Associated Press. ^"11^

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan « Carnegie Mellon University « 3 September 1996
Columnist explores Toronto
TORONTO, from page 7
The only bad part about the 
Erie layover was the fact that 
the bus going to Buffalo was 
late. Very late. And what did 
the Amish do?
They took offin a Dodge Ram.
The Buffalo bus finally came 
and I was able to get there in 
. time to catch the Toronto bus 
„ (by two minutes).
Crossing the border when 
, you have surly customs agents 
is also an experience, especially 
when you have a guy with you 
who left his meaningful iden­
tification back in Ireland.
I arrived late 
in the night, and 
for some reason 
I wasn’t scared.
This is one of 
the neat things 
about Toronto 
— you’re not 
afraid to stay 
out until 3 am 
(which I did 
k_ each day I was 
there). Nobody 
, follows you 
around and the 
police tend not 
to run away 
from you if you 
get mugged.
I then lugged 
my baggage to a 
hotel that offers 
discount rates 
to college students.
It was in a neat part of town.
' I had a clear view of Eaton 
Center and the prostitutes. I 
< spent my first, calm night in
• Toronto.
Anyhow, I came, I saw. I 
- played a lot of Virtua Fighter
• 2,1 ate a lot of sushi. And, to 
top it all off, I kept on staying 
.out until 3 am. I wasn’t even
accosted. These people were a 
great bunch of guys. I hope we 
have another one of these gather­
ings real soon.
I also hope I can go back to 
Toronto in the near future be­
cause I didn’t get to see Phantom. 
There’s also a few little differ­
ences between here and Toronto 
besides that I can stay out until 3 
am without fear.
There are some big differences 
between convenience stores here 
and in Toronto.
Here when you walk into a con­
venience store, your eyes are im­
mediately assaulted with pop (or
“soda” for you non-Pittsburghers).
Cans, bottles’, sweepstakes on 
the cans and bottles, their logos 
emblazoned on plastic banners, 
you can’t escape it. It’s like a 
circus of soft-drink advertising.
In Toronto, all the pop is in a 
cardboard box in the freezer way 
in the corner, where it should be. 
There’s no pressure to perform. 
No debating over Coke, Pepsi, or
Josta.
No banners, no logos in bright 
colors, none of that stuff.
Also, convenience stores dif­
fer in their magazine racks. 
Racks here have their maga­
zines jumbled all over the place. 
In Toronto, racks have three 
distinct shelves: men’s,
women’s, and pornography.
I’m not just talking about the 
token Playboy and Penthouse 
you might be able to find here.
That top shelf is full of it. And 
the clerks there don’t mind if 
you buy them, either. Here 
clerks shoot you the “You’re 
buying pornography, you 
sick disgusting loser!" look.
Anyhow, I had the blast of 
a lifetime there, but the trip 
back Sunday night was aw­
ful. Not because I left 
Toronto behind and the re­
ality of all the times I used 
my credit card hit me (I’ll 
tell you somethingright here 
and now — it wasn’t to buy 
pornography), it was be­
cause of the six hour layover 
in Buffalo that night.
Not only was I more scared 
than any other time in my 
life (and that includes Army 
Basic), I also saw my first 
kicking out of a homeless 
lady by a NY transit cop.
So, when I got back that 
Monday, it was business as 
usual for the rest of the sum­
mer, which I’ll tell you about 
next week.
Now that’s when I get cyni­
cal.
Tom Harper is a very cynical 
senior Technical Writing ma­
jor. This is the first of a three 
part series on his summer “va­
cation.” Condolences are wel­
come by mailing him at th2n.
Poor tradition requires restraint
Aji
Matt Ball
Over the sum­
mer, my daugh­
ter turned two. In 
my dealings with 
family and col­
leagues, there is 
often a tension
over how she should be raised. When I look at her, 
I see the tremendous possibility of a new life, free 
to explore the world, to learn and think freely.
On the other side are the limits, prejudices, and 
superstitions put forth in the name of tradition 
that many, if not most, 
would have us force upon 
our daughter.
The word “tradition” 
has positive connotations, 
implying a regard for the 
ways of ancestors, an es­
teem for how things were 
done in the past.
In spite of the many 
social movements in the
past century, society still indoctrinates children 
with values dependent upon gender. Males are 
generally taught to be more aggressive, indepen­
dent, and to base their self-esteem on personal 
achievement.
Females are more frequently taught, subtly or 
overtly, to take a secondary role, to judge them­
selves by their physical attractiveness. These atti­
tudes continue to permeate the etiquette of inter­
action between the sexes throughout adult life. 
Despite the impact of the feminist movement in 
recent decades, chivalry still exists and is widely 
accepted, even expected, by many men and women.
So many facets of our lives are simply pro­
grammed responses rather than independently 
formed decisions, it is hard to believe we are beings 
with “free will.” In spite of the tremendous cultural 
changes wrought by technological advances, the 
pattern of successive generations is remarkably 
similar to those of their parents. How many of us 
believe in the god of our parents, and their parents 
before, as if our family line had a monopoly on the 
nature of the universe? How many of us had 
prayers drilled into us so often that we can recite 
them without any thought as to what they were 
intended to mean? How many of us spent years 
learning the names of every President and the 
T dates of past battles (even when new ones raged 
unquestioned)? How many of us will go through 
the expected amount of school to get a nine-to-five
" ...[we] have been pinned to 
us in assembly-line fashion. 
We have become living exer­
cises in mass-production. "
job for the next 40 or 50 years?
As if we would starve to death otherwise, weFj 
acquire wealth and “security” as we acquire years, I 
leaving for our survivors the material possessions« 
accumulated over decades and a scrapbook of 
photos which, except for the faces, could be inter-! 
changed with those of any number of families.! 
When time runs out, thousands of dollars are1 
spent to house our lifeless forms ill carved ma­
hogany boxes buried beneath engraved stone mark-1 j 
ers. The money spent does not show any respect for 
the memory of the deceased, and could in fact be 
put to construc- 
--------------------------------------------- tive use - but tra­
dition has its de­
mands. The sanc­
tity of the dead 
outweighs the 
needs of the liv­
ing.
Our existences 
have become 
mindless rou­
tines. We allow ourselves to be absorbed into some 
collective amoebae rather than taking the oppor­
tunity to examine and judge our own lives and 
react accordingly. Few ever try to see beyond thé 
constraints imposed by previous generations, to 
explore options besides those given societal ap­
proval. Our sense of morality, our daily patterns, 
our interactions with other people and animals - 
whom we ogle, whom we hate, whom we keep as 
pets, whom we eat - have been pinned to us in 
assembly-line fashion. We have become living 
exercises in mass-production.
Although the process of life itself has proven 
resilient and perhaps unending, our individual 
lives are not. Each of us has a relatively short span 
of time to discover and experience our unique 
existence. We can decide for ourselves what course 
our lives will take, what we consider right or 
wrong, and what is the proper way to interact with 
our surroundings. Doing so in the face of so much 
cultural momentum can be quite intimidating, 
since most people regard true individualism of 
thought and deed (not that which is affected 
through “rebellious” styles or actions) with indif­
ference at best.
But to ignore the challenge is nothing less than 
tragic.
Matt Ball is a Ph.D. student in CIT. He welcomes 
any responsible replies to his column.
Programs prove antithesis to ethical society
¿Si
Jon Orris
The recent 
welfare re­
form bill and 
proposal of 
modest tax
_______________________________ cuts by
presidential
| candidate Bob Dole have caused a great deal of 
| wailing and hand wringing by statist intellectu- 
1 als and politicians.
{ “We’ll have to cut crucial social programs!”
! they whine. “Women ______________________
5 and children will die in 
! the streets!” they 
clamor.
“The Republicans are 
; cutting taxes for those 
i rich, greedy bastards of 
I bigbusiness!” they snarl 
i in hatred.
Let me state my posi-
* tion on these issues 
{ clearly: welfare, and all 
\ other social programs 
} such as Medicare or So- 
\ cial Security do not need to be reformed.
! They need to be eliminated entirely.
! The money that goes to recipients of various
I social programs does not belong to them. It is 
! money forcibly stolen from those who produced 
1 it.
Those who receive it have no right to it what- 
| soever.
; Most people have some understanding that 
J they must respect the rights of others in their 
\ private dealings, that they must deal with one 
{ another as traders, giving value for value.
! Most people understand that if they want food
1 or a car, they must pay for it with their own 
i money, and that they must earn that wealth by 
j their own productive effort.
It is in public life, however, that persons
operate on a different standard. Persons 
who wouldn’t think of robbing their neigh­
bors directly, think nothing of using the 
force of government to steal from them for 
some public cause.
Thus they gain a perverted sense of moral 
stature for their “charity,” while being able 
to evade the knowledge that they are worse 
than criminals.
At least the typical mugger doesn’t put 
on airs of smug self righteousness and
"The only rights a government has are 
those delegated to it by its citizens. 
Individuals do not have the right to rob 
one another. They have no right to play 
Robin Hood, and neither does the govern­
ment. ”
demand your moral sanction when he waves 
a gun in your face.
“But how are people supposed to find 
jobs? They have no education, and the job 
market is horrible!” they cry.
Whose fault is that?
Who has destroyed education?
Who has taxed and regulated the economy 
to the point where growth has stagnated?
Do those who snarl about the “greedy 
rich” and making them “pay their fair 
share” have the slightest idea of where jobs 
come from?
When you steal 28% of a return on an 
investment, why should anyone invest?
When the costs of regulations exceed the 
taxes, and one can be punished on the
whim of some bureaucrat, why do business 
at all?
“But they need it!” cry the advocates of 
compassion, blanking out the fact that the 
victims from whom they extort money both 
needed it themselves and had a right to it. 
One misfortune is not a claim on the life of 
another. You have no right to rob a Unimart 
to pay your rent, and you have no right to get 
the government to rob it for you.
But if the majority seems to acknowledge
_______ that we have some obligation to
the poor, the elderly, etc, then the 
majority can go out and help the 
poor themselves.
The only moral purpose of gov­
ernment is the protection of indi­
vidual rights. It is only in the con­
text of that principle that citizens 
have the right to vote.
It is only the details of imple­
mentation over how the govern­
ment will carry out its purpose,
. protecting individual rights, that 
'sstaamm are subject to majority rule.
The only rights a government has are 
those delegated to it by its citizens.
Individuals do not have the right to rob 
one another. They have no right to play 
Robin Hood, and neither does the govern­
ment.
All forms of social spending, from Medi­
care to welfare must be eliminated in their 
entirety.
They are nothing more than legalized theft. 
That money belongs to those who earned it, 
not to those who “need” it.
Orris is a fifth-year CS major.
He welcomes any responsible replies to his 
column.
HUGH KERR BOOKS
OUT OF PRINT SPECIALISTS. 
WE HAVE THE BOOK! 
Email: hughkerr@incerloc.com
It’s noisy 
out there...
mmm ?Sfe kfgrnSr pnnh Cfgers nlinp fSbe pCne afCo• Ipgne oCMhis 4lCns sSlSlgnges Mer 
ISMer hlSafeMs sSfingSrs &Sas vgseCse ICl yCMgre nSCsn vS,s oCns fgSrs fCMas pCI•s 
vSbes pfhhes kplgsngCrs Teev )eIn ngMe nCgfgr, hCssgr, snSlges sSMe ,ic npgs 
npCnmmm ?Sfe kfgrnSr pnnh Cfgers nlinp fSbe pCne afCo• Ipgne oCMhis 4lCns sSlSlgnges 
Mer ISMer hlSafeMs sSfingSrs 5Sas vgseCse ICl yCMgre nSCsn vS,s oCns fgSrs fCMas 
pCI•s vSbes pfhhes kplgsngCrs Teev )eIn ngMe nCgfgr, hCssgr, snSlges sSMe ,ic npgs 
npCnmmm ?Sfe kfgrnSr pnnh Cfgers nlinp fSbe pCne afCo• Ipgne oCMhis ylCns sSlSlgnges 
Mer ISMer hlSafeMs sSfingSrs &Sas vgseCse ICl FCMgre nSCsn vS,s oCns fgSrs fCMas 
pCI•s vSbes pfhhes kplgsngCrs Teev )eIn ngMe nCgfgr, hCssgr, snSlges sSMe ,ic npgs 
npCnmmm ?Sfe kfgrnSr pnnh Cfgers nlinp fSbe pCne afCo• Ipgne oCMhis 4lCns sSlSlgnges 
Mer ISMer hlSpfeMs sSfingSrs 5Sas vgseCse ICl FCMgre nSCsn vS,s oCns fgSrs fCMas 
pCI•s vSbes pfhhes kplgsngCrs Teev )eIn ngMe nCgfgr, hCssgr, snSlges sSMe ,ic npgs 
npCnmmm ?Sfe kfgrnSr pnnh Cfgers nlinp fSbe pCne afCo• Ipgne oCMhis 4lCns sSlSlgnges 
Mer ISMer hlSafeMs sSfingSrs &Sas vgseCse ICl FCMgre nSCsn vS,s oCns fgSrs fCMas 
pCI•s vSbes pfhhes kplgsngCrs Teev )eIn ngMe nCgfgr, hCssgr, snSlges sSMe ,ic npgs
Get Heard
Write for Forum. E-mail jbdi@andrew.cmu.edu
BE A GOODAmerican Heart 
Association
Fighting Heart Disease 
and Stroke
Volunteer.
NSl MSle grySlMCngSrt oSrnCon cSil fSoCf 6MelgoCr 
3eCln 6ssSogCngSr Sl oCff B1xww16361dJ6B
Celebrate Tradition
With a
Balfour 
Class Ring!
College memories can last a life- 
time, when they’re preserved in a 
Balfour Class Ring. Sports, 
academics, degrees, years of 
graduation and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your 
Balfour Class Ring...a tradition of 
excellence since 1913!
Wednesday, Thursday & Friday 
September 4th, 5th & 6th 
10:00-4:00 pm 
University Shoppe 
$35.00 Deposit
Balfour* Nomiemnembersinsomnyty ways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 19969
Baseball’s little names deliver big results
The Hot Comer
by Matt Cuccaro
My name is “Coox,” and I love baseball 
and the Red Sox.
That’s what I said at my Fanatics 
; Anonymous meeting last spring. It was 
very helpful; the other group members 
: explained that there was more to life 
than box scores and pennant chases. 
1 Then I found out the group leader was a 
‘Yankee fan. So I left.
' I spent the summer scanning box scores 
' and following pennant chases and I dis- 
' covered, as is the case every year, so
¦ many players are having excellent sea­
sons. But while we expect that from such 
stars as Albert Belle and Barry Bonds, 
1996 has brought stardom from several 
unlikely sources. This week’s" column 
takes a look at some of the unexpected
yet outstanding seasons that certain 
ballplayers are having this year.
Mariners shortstop Alex Rodriguez 
may only be nine months older than I 
am, but I worship the ground he walks 
on. “A-Rod” is having one of the finest 
seasons of any player in history. 
Nevermind that he is only 21 years old 
and has yet to complete his first full 
major league season; Alex is The Man. 
Batting .374 with 33 homers, 110 ribbies, 
122 runs scored, 48 two baggers, and 12 
steals (through Friday), Junior will make
1996 the best season, statistically speak­
ing, any shortstop has ever had, ever. 
And he’s cute, too.
Certain Oakland Athletics sluggers 
are experiencing great individual sea­
sons, but the A’s major accomplishments 
lie as a team. With 209 home, runs (in 
their first 133 games) the new-lookbash 
brothers should easily surpass the 1961 
Yankees team-homer record of 240. 
There are some familiar faces leading 
the attack; Geronimo Berroa currently 
has 34 dingers (eight of which were hit 
from August 12-18), Terry Steinbach 
has 31 taters, and original bash brother 
Mark McGwire leads the majors with 
45. Several new players are also making 
major contributions to the record chase.
Jason Giambi has 20 round trippers 
(plus a .308 BA, 75 RBI, and nice teeth), 
Ernie Young has hit 15, and my boy 
Scott “Super-califragilisticexpeali” 
Brosius/has gone yard 21 times 
(in only 329 at bats).
There are many other 
American League play­
ers who are having sur­
prisingly exceptional 
seasons, some of whom 
make my “honorable 
mention” list. They include re­
lief pitcher Roberto Hernandez 
of the White Sox (5-1, 34 saves,
1.03 ERA, one broken Ripken 
nose), Rangers shortstop Kevin 
Elster (23 HR, 94 RBI), and 
Orioles outfielder Brady 
Anderson (.296 BA, 40 HR, 
league leading two side- \ / 
burns).
Trivia: This year Alex 
Rodriguez became the 19th 
shortstop since 1900 (min. 100 
games at SS) to reach the 100 
RBI plateau. Of the other 18, 
three are still active. Name 
them.
There is only one National 
League player who ranks
among the top five in batting average, 
runs, hits, doubles,
triples, h o m e
runs, and 
runs batted in. Who 
is he? Here’s a hint: he’s 
on the ever-growing list of 
all stars the Red Sox let get 
away. Yes, Rockies outfielder Ellis 
Burks is arguably the NL’s most 
dangerous hitter. And while his 
teammates endure criticism 
for only producing in Coors 
Field (a.k.a. Juiced Ball Park 
at Little League Yards), Burks 
leads his team with a .307 
road batting average (inci­
dentally, he’s also hitting 
.369 vs. right-handed pitch­
ers during the day on arti­
ficial turf in ballparks 
whose names contain the 
letter ‘s’).
This season, most 
teams have basically 
viewed pitching as an op­
tion, not a requirement. 
Not so for the Braves, 
whose pitchers once 
again rank first in team 
ERA. The Bravos fea­
ture a staff of aces (including newcomer 
Denny Neagle, but that’s a different 
story) led by fireballer John Smoltz.
Smoltzy began the season 14-1, 
started and won the all-star game, 
and so far leads the majors with 20 
wins and 228 strikeouts. Long con­
sidered to have the best stuff of;all 
Atlanta starters, Smoltz is finally 
realizing the potential the organisa­
tion saw when they acquired l^im 
from the Tigers in 1987 for Dojyle 
Alexander.
Several other National League 
players are producing unlikely yet 
remarkable seasons, such as Mar­
lins pitcher Kevin Brown (14—10, 
1.92), outfielder Oh! Henry 
Rodriguez of the Expos (33 HR, 92 
RBI), and Mets outfielder Bernard 
Gilkey (.315, 28, 102) and catcher 
Todd Hundley (38 HR, 101 RBI).
Trivia Answer: Cal Ripken, Jr., Alan 
Trammel, and John Valentin.
Matt Cuccaro is a junior civil and 
environmental engineering student. 
"Coox" loves baseball, the Red Sox, ctyid 
blames John McNamara for losing \he 
’86 Series.
OJ/A .V. D.
n'; ADMINISTRATION
~ Intramural Director— Mike Mastroianni 
x8-2214; Assistant Intramural Director 
1' — Mike Gryzwinski X8-2938; IM Secre­
tary — Michelle Matta x8-2053; IM 
President — Matt Williams 621-8987;
,. IM Women’s President — Pia Soriano 
681-1031
IMPORTANT DATES
Tuesday— Intramural Board Meeting 
in the Gym Conference Room 
Thursday— Entries due for Touch Foot­
ball, Tennis, Co-Rec Volleyball, and Golf 
' Entries due by 4:30 pm. 
j Thursday—Touch Football rules meet- • 
j ing at 4:30 pm in the small gym.L September 9 — Touch Football games 
begin.
September 11 — Co-Rec Volleyball 
games begin.
NEW ASSISTANT INTRAMURAL 
DIRECTOR
The Intramural Department is pleased 
to announce that Mike Gryzwinski has 
been hired as full time Assistant Intra­
mural Director. Mike has been a fixture 
in the department for a number of 
years. Mike will run all the evening 
intramural activities. His office is lo­
cated inthegym, room. 102, next to the 
intramural office.
UNIVERSITY CENTER
The Intramural Department is ex­
tremely :excited about the opening of 
the new University Center. The gymna­
sium and swimming pool will be used 
fora number of intramural activities. All 
students are reminded that the intra­
mural office will remain in the old gym­
nasium and all sign-ups and correspon­
dence should be directed to that office. 
There will be an auxiliary office in the 
University Center which will be used 
when intramural events take place in 
the University Center.
- If you have any questions please 
| stop by the intramural office, room 101 
in the gymnasium, or.call x8-2214 or 
! X8-2053. i
INTRAMURAL BOARD MEETING
The first intramuraj student board 
meeting will take place on Tuesday, 
September 3 at 11:30 am in the gym­
nasium conference room. All organiza­
tions, fraternities, sororities, and cam­
pus groups are welcome to have a 
representative sit on the Intramural 
Board.
Meetings are held on the first and 
third Tuesdays of each month. The 
board will vote at the first meeting 
whether to have the meetings start at 
11:30 am or noon. Please call the 
intramural office for more details at x8- 
2214.
FOOTBALL RULES CLINIC
A mandatory rules clinic meeting for 
all touch football teams will be held on 
Thursday, September 5 at 4:30 pm in 
the small gym. All teams must have a 
representative at this meeting. All 1996 
touch football officials must be in at­
tendance.D¦
Submitted by 
PATRICIA BRUNO
Columnist recaps Olympic highs, lows
OLYMPICS, from page 12
A quick serve is returned by 
Cuba, and a U.S. player touches 
the net as he attempts to set. 
Cuba won a nail-biter tonight.
July 26,1996: Tonight I am 
enjoying downtown with my 
friends. We go to Planet Holly­
wood, but are turned back be­
cause Bruce Willis and Demi 
Moore have reserved it for the 
evening. Centennial Park is fes­
tive and we see the sponsor 
exhibits of Swatch, AT&T, and 
of course Bud’s “Beergarden.” 
Feeling tired, we leave at 11:30 
pm, just two hours before the 
infamous bomb explodes.
July 27, 1996: We wake up 
early for Track & Field and see
the news of the bombing. Aston­
ished and angry, we decide not to 
let it ruin our day and leave for 
the Olympic Stadium. Security is 
now very heavy; I don’t mind. I 
see the torch burning over the 
stadium and can’t help but get 
emotional. We watch some of the 
heptathlon, and during the high 
jump Jackie-Joyner Kersee walks 
off the field right next to where I 
sit. I yell, “Go USA!” not realizing 
she was injured. Looking up at 
me she smiles but she has tears 
in her eyes. I will remember that 
forever — she won’t.
July 30,1996: Today the park 
re-opens for the first time after 
the bombing. I head down in the 
evening and the crowd is enormous
— outside the park. Security 
checks are now at all entrances 
to the Centennial Park, but ev- 
ery-one’s attitude is still very 
positive. For ten 
dollars I get the 
pnui'/ege of shop­
ping at Coke re­
tail shops. The 
experience 
summed up one 
part ofthe Olym­
pics: commer­
cialism here is 
pathetic.
August 2,
1996: Tonight 
is my last 
chance to be 
downtown dur­
ing the Olympics. I take pictures of 
crowds and more crowds. I also vis­
ited the memorial site of the bombing. 
I felt remorseful and anger at the same
time. Someone has tried to riiin 
Atlanta’s celebration, and two lives 
were lost as a result.
August 4,1996: The last night 
of the Games is sad for 
me. As a resident of the 
Atlanta area, I experi­
enced the Games entirely, 
almost taking them for 
granted at times and ev^n^ 
getting annoyed at sujch 
things as crowds andcojn- 
mercialism. I will remefn- 
ber these Games as one! of 
the greatest experiences 
of my life.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
&CsSr ,Sn nS see OeCM dJ6 Igr npe ,Sfv gr ,cMrCsngosD
Jason Siegendorf is a 
junior ECE major and 
Tartan Photo Editor.
HEY! You want to write for Tartan
The Tartan Sports Department now has openings... a lot of open­
ings. You think you know about football, soccer, 
volleyball, or tennis? Then get in this office Afyi'
and write for Sports. If interested, email pb3s 
or look for us at the Activities Fair and ask 
Eric about the Banana Cream Pie.
Baseball and soccer by Gabrien Symons/ Tartan Art Co-Editor
classified
FOR SALE
Seized cars from $175. Porsches, 
Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's. Cor­
vettes. Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your 
area. Toll-Free (800) 898-9778 Ext 
A-7862 for current listings.
Gov't foreclosed homes for 
pennies on $1. Delinquent tax, 
repo's, REO's. Your area. Toll-free 
(800) 898-9778. Ext. H-7862 for 
current listings.
HOUSING
SouthSide Flats: 3 bedroom, one 
bath, wood floors, free laundry, 
dishwasher, herb garden, great 
light, good sized living room, and 
gigantic kitchen. Rent would be 
$205, $260, or $285 depending on 
die room you take, plus 1/3 bills. 
Share with 2 grad students (GWM 
& SWF). We study and work a lot,
but we like to cook and keep a nice 
place. Looking for responsible non- 
smoker, gay-tolerant, preferably 
senior, grad, or professional. Pets are 
possible. E-mail to goshen@cmu.edu 
or call Jeff at 481-2406
JOBS
ence, reliability, and the highest 
rewards in the market, SST has 
become the #1 to the hottest destina­
tions! Free trip on 13 sales! Highest 
commissions! Call for free info 
packet: Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710. 
www .sunsplash tour.com.
$1000's possible reading books. 
Part-time. At home. Toll-Free (800) 
898-9778. Ext. R-7862 for listings.
$1000's Possible typing. Part-time. 
At home. Toll-Free (800) 898-9778. 
Ext. T-7862 for listings.
Baby-sitter for6ome afternoons and 
weekends. Pick-up at CMU 
children's school. Transportation 
required. Call after 8:00 p.m. 243- 
7530
Spring Break '97. Do it with Sun 
Splash Tours! With 10 years experi-
Classified Rates
1-20 words............$10.00/wk
21-50 words...........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon Univerisity 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
•On-campus departments and organiza­
tions may pay by journal transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
These are the 
individual contributors,
who found the 
hi-tech opportunities.
is a breed apart, a compa­
ny known and respected for 
a history of innovation and 
strength. We're the #1 beer 
company in the nation, and 
we earned that title through 
hard work, responsibility and 
a strong dedication to qual­
ity. To find a career opportu­
nity with a proven leader, a 
company based on innova­
tion and strength, look to 
Anheuser-Busch.
Anheuser-Busch has a proud 
heritage of quality and inno­
vation. which perseveres os 
we continue to meet the 
technological and business 
challenges of tomorrow. In 
order to integrate our business 
processes with information g 
technology, we are migrating ^"3 
our current computer systems 
to SAP and other leading 
edge technologies.
Anheuser-Busch's continued 
growth has resulted In new 
opportunities for technical 
professionals who are excit- ? I 
ed about their work ond 
approach each new project I 
with enthusiasm and the will- 
ingness lo utilize their leader- ' 
ship, business and decision­
making skills.
Opportunities are available 
for individuals with e 
ence In SAP Visual E 
C++. Oracle. PowerJ 
and many other to
requiring outstand­
ing computer skills 
and business 
know-how,
/
¦/with the company 
! that’s setting the 
pace in the 
| industry!!!!
Business Analysts
¡echnical Analysts
letwork Engineers
erating Sys. Specialists
|1IS Team Leaders
Programmers
Network Design & 
Installation Analyst
Make an 1111 pact
with a leader at Anheuser- 
Busch. We offer an excellent 
salary and benefits pack­
age. as well as the opportu­
nity to advance and excel in 
our progressive technical 
environment. Please send 
your resume to:
6rpeisel1Yisop\ uJR\ W8Ww ANHEUSER-BUSCH s Recel\ JnD 0Sigst uU 8WB9Ü
COMPANIESEqual Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon sheds some light on campus security
There’s no reason to be in the dark about campus security. A team of Carnegie Mellon police officers, security guards, and housing and student affairs staff 
members work to keep students, faculty, staff and visitors informed and safe on the campus and adjacent areas. These professionals are concerned with the 
safety and welfare of the campus community and are best able to answer questions about campus security.
kCMhis Jeoilgnc JnCyyYigfvgr, JCyencJCyenc kSMMirgoCngSrs
How many police officers are on campus?
OIerfc1Sre ClMev Syygoels oSrsngnine npe hSfgoe snCyyD Opec Cle eMhSIelev 
nS MC•e Cr Cllesn Sr kClre,ge ueffSr hlShelnc Sl Crc CleCs Cv5Coern nS npe 
irgbelsgncD 6vvgngSrCffct npele Cle 9’ seoilgnc ,iClvst ygbe lCvgS vgshCnopels Crv 
nIS nlCyygo MSrgnSls Sr npe snCyyD NSSn hCnlSfs ac ,iClvs sihhSln npe Syygoels! 
silbegffCroe Sy npe oCMhis CoCveMgo aigfvgr,s Crv lesgveroe pCffsD
What can the officers do in an emergency?
Uyygoelst grofivgr, nplee sel,eCrnst C fgeinerCrn Crv npe vgleonSl Sy 
seoilgnct Cle sISlr Crv oSMMgssgSrev irvel npe RerelCf 0CIs Sy npe 
kSMMSrIeCfnp Sy 2errscfbCrgCD Opec Cle oelngygev irvel 6on 9W’ hlgSl 
nS vinc Crv leoegbe ygleClMs Crv .Mel,eroc uevgoCf OlCgrgr,D Uyygoels 
CfsS leoegbe sheogCfg(ev nlCgrgr, gr oillern oSroelrst siop Cs CinS npeynt 
vli, CICleresst olgMe seClop hlSoevile Crv pC(ClvSis MCnelgCfsD 
JISlr Syygoels leoegbe npegl CinpSlgnc ylSM 6on ’wB Sy npe 2errscfbCrgC 
kSrsSfgvCnev JnCninesD Ope 6on leCvsH PJiop hSfgoeMert sS ChhSgrnevt 
spCff sebelCffc hSssess Crv e7elogse Cff npe hSIels Sy C hSfgoe Syygoel gr 
npgs kSMMSrIeCfnpt gr Crv ihSrt Crv gr npe gMMevgCne Crv Cv5Coern 
bgogrgnc SyD npe hlShelnc Sy npe oSlhSlCngSrD— Uyygoels Cle CfsS nlCgrev 
irvel 6on B9w —uirgoghCf 2Sfgoe OlCgrgr, Crv .vioCngSr 6onD
What authority do security guards have?
mpgfe npec Cle rSn sISlr Syygoelst eCop ,iClv leoegbes SlgernCngSr 
nlCgrgr, gr CleCs siop Cs aigfvgr, seoilgnct •ec oSrnlSft hlSoeviles 
lefCnev nS Cllesns ac Syygoelst Crv olgMgrCf Crv hCnlSf hlSoevilesD 
RiClvs CfsS nlCgr gr sheogCfnc CleCs grofivgr, MevgoCf eMel,eroges Crv 
pC(ClvSis ICsnesD Opec Cssgsn npe oCMhis hSfgoe gr Cff Sy npese CleCsD
How do the security guards supplement campus police patrols?
Ope ,iClvs le,ifClfc hCnlSf CoCveMgo aigfvgr,s Crv lesgveroe pCffs 
ebelc rg,pn Sy npe ceClD ?ilgr, npe vCct nIS nlCyygo MSrgnSls CfsS hCnlSf 
oCMhis hCl•gr, CleCsD
6 JCye kgnc Crv kCMhis
What about crime in Pittsburgh?
2gnnsail,p's lefCngbefc fSI grogveroe Sy olgMet1CfSr, Ignp gns evioCK
ngSrCft oifnilCft shSlns Crv ,eS,lChpgo aereygnst pefhev nS seoile gns 
snCnis Cs npe MSsn fgbCafe ognc gr 6MelgoCD Ope kgnc Sy 2gnnsail,p Crv 
6ffe,perc kSirnc 2Sfgoe NSloest Cs Ieff Cs npe 2errscfbCrgC JnCne 
2Sfgoe Crv npe NY4t Cle npe MC5Sl efeMerns gr C olgMe1hleberngSr 
renISl• npCn grofives npe oCMhis hSfgoe vehClnMerns Sy Cff 2gnnsail,p 
oSffe,es Crv irgbelsgngesD Jniverns Cnnervgr, kClre,ge ueffSr aereygn 
ylSM npe oSShelCngbe lefCngSrspgh kCMhis 2Sfgoe er5Scs Ignp yevelCft 
snCnet oSirnc Crv ognc hSfgoe C,erogesD
What does this cooperation involve?
Ope irgbelsgnc!s ?ehClnMern Sy Jeoilgnc hClngoghCnes Ignp CleC fCI 
erySloeMern C,eroges gr Chhlepervgr, Cffe,ev olgMgrCfs Crv gr 5Sgrn 
olgMe hleberngSr hlS,lCMst nlCgrgr, ofCssest oSMMirgnc selbgoe 
Congbgnges Crv MeMaelspghs 
gr MiniCf hlSyessgSrCf Sl,Crg(CngSrsD
How are crimes on campus reported and to whom?
4n gs gMhSlnCrn npCn Cff olgMes Sooillgr, Sr oCMhis ae gMMevgCnefc 
lehSlnev
nS kCMhis 2Sfgoe nS ersile npCn ChhlShlgCne CongSr gs nC•erD
klgMes Sooillgr, Sr oCMhis oCr ae lehSlnev gr helsSrt Sl ac oCffgr, 
kCMhis 2Sfgoe Cn 98x19W9W Crc ngMe Sy npe vCc Sl rg,pnD
What happens when a student discovers a theft or other crime? 
TehSlns Sy npeyn Sl Snpel olgMes Cle lehSlnev nS kCMhis 2Sfgoe ySl grbesng,CngSrD 
Tesgvern CssgsnCrns Cle •ec gr lehSlngr, olgMgrCf Congbgnc gr npe lesgveroe pCffst 
Crv Cle leGiglev nS •eeh C fS, Sy grogverns Sooillgr, vilgr, npegl spgynsD mper 
ChhlShlgCnet snCyy ylSM 3Sisgr, Sl Jnivern 6yyCgls MCc ae grbSfbev gr CrsIelgr, 
C oCff ySl CssgsnCroeD
What about reporting incidents outside of the residence halls?
Opele Cle W« hSfgoe eMel,eroc hpSres fSoCnev ColSss npe oCMhisD mgnpSin 
vgCfgr,t npe oCffel gs gMMevgCnefc gr oSrnCon Ignp npe kCMhis 2SfgoeD Ope 
fSoCngSr Sy npe oCff gs CinSMCngoCffc leoSlvev Crv leshSrse gs gMMevgCneD
kCMhis 2Sfgoe MCc CfsS ae leCopev ac oCffgr, 98x19W9Wt Sl sgMhfc x9W9W 
Sr Crc oCMhis hpSreD
Are firearms permitted on campus?
)SD Ope irgbelsgnc hlSpgagns npe hSssessgSr Sl ise Sy ygleClMst Cs Ieff Cs Crc 
Snpel IeChSrst gr Sl reCl npe lesgveroe pCffst Sl Sr irgbelsgnc hlShelncD Urfc 
sISlr kCMhis 2Sfgoe helsSrref Cle CinpSlg(ev nS oCllc IeChSrs Ipgfe Sr vincD 
mpgfe Syy vinct rS MeMael Sy npe vehClnMern gs helMgnnev nS hSssess C IeChSr 
Sr oCMhis hlShelncD 2Sfgoe nlCgrgr, grofives vCcfg,pn Crv rg,pnngMe GiCfgygoCngSr 
Ignp ygleClMs nlCgrgr, grofivgr, npe fe,Cft MSlCf Crv hlCongoCf Csheons Sy oCllcgr, 
C IeChSrD
Does the university consider criminal records in admission 
or employment?
Lest ySl sheogygo 5Sa ofCssgygoCngSrst siop Cs seoilgnc helsSrrefD Ope ChhfgoCngSr 
ySl CvMgssgSr nS kClre,ge ueffSr vSes rSn leGiesn grySlMCngSr oSroelrgr, Crc 
hlebgSis olgMgrCf oSrbgongSrs\ oSrseGiernfc npe olgMgrCf leoSlvs Sy ChhfgoCrns 
ySl CvMgssgSr nS npe irgbelsgnc Cle rSn lebgeIev ac npe Uyygoe Sy 6vMgssgSrD
Ope irgbelsgnc leoS,rg(es gns leshSrsgagfgnc nS ersile npe sCyenc Sy npe oCMhis 
oSMMirgnc Crv npeleySle ebCfiCnes Cr erlSffev snivern!s snCnis Ignp npe 
irgbelsgnc gr npe ebern Sy pgs Sl pel olgMgrCf oSrbgongSr gr hiafgo oSilnD
What is the university's disciplinary role if a student is convicted 
of a criminal offense?
Ope drgbelsgnc kSMMgnnee Sr ?gsoghfgre MCc lebgeI npe oCse Iper C snivern pCs 
aeer oSrbgonev gr hiafgo oSilns Sy selgSis olgMesD JheogCf CnnerngSr gs ,gber nS 
ogloiMsnCroes Ipgop oSrsngnine C hSnerngCf npleCn C,Cgrsn npe irgbelsgnc's Cagfgnc 
nS yirongSr gr IpSfe Sl gr hClnDD4r siop C lebgeI npe oSMMgnnee Igff venelMgre 
Ipenpel npe snivern's hleseroe Cn npe irgbelsgnc Igff ervCr,el npe irgbelsgnc 
oSMMirgncD NSl venCgfs Sr npe vgsoghfgrClc lebgeI Sy snivernst oSrsifn npe 
Student Handbook.
How is the campus environment maintained for safe lighting 
and walkways?
Jeoilgnc helsSrref Cssess npe hpcsgoCf oSrvgngSr Sy oCMhis yCogfgnges — 
grofivgr, fCrvsoChgr,t ,lSirvs •eehgr, Crv SinvSSl fg,pngr, — Sr npegl le,ifCl 
hCnlSfs Sy irgbelsgnc hlShelncD 6ff seoilgnc snCyy Crv MeMaels Sy npe oCMhis 
oSMMirgnc oCr lehSln veygogern hpcsgoCf oSrvgngSrs nS npe irgbelsgnc's 2pcsgoCf 
2fCrn bgC npe oCMhis1Igve efeonlSrgo MCgf scsneM Sl ac oCffgr, npe ?ehClnMern 
Sy Jeoilgnc vgleonfcD
How are university facilities and pro grams accessible to students, 
employees and guests?
6s C hlgbCne irgbelsgnct kClre,ge ueffSr vSes pCbe npe lg,pn nS fgMgn Cooess nS gns 
oCMhis Crv nS oSrnlSf Congbgnges Sr npe oCMhisD Yint gr npe shglgn Sy CoCveMgo 
yleevSM Crv ylee e7hlessgSr Sy gveCst npe irgbelsgnc helMgns Crv eroSilC,es 
yleevSM Sy sheeop Crv CsseMafc ac Cff helsSrsD Opgs grofives npe vgsnlgaingSr Sy 
feCyfens Crv hengngSrst Cs Ieff Cs veMSrsnlCngSrs Sl hlSnesns grbSfbgr, sheC•gr,t 
vgsoissgSr Sl npe vgsnlgaingSr Sy grySlMCngSr Sinsgve irgbelsgnc aigfvgr,sD
What restrictions apply to such activities?
Ope Srfc fgMgns Sr npese Congbgnges Cle npe lg,pns Sy npe MeMaels Sy npe irgbelsgnc 
oSMMirgnc Crv npe MCgrnerCroe Sy npe rSlMCf yirongSrgr, Sy npe irgbelsgncD )S 
Congbgnges Ipgop pClM grvgbgviCfst vCMC,e Sl veyCoe hlShelnct afSo• Cooess nS 
irgbelsgnc aigfvgr,s Sl vgslihn ofCsses Igff ae helMgnnevD 2iafgo ebernst siop Cs 
feonilest hfCcs Crv oSroelnst Clet Sy oSilset Sher nS npe oSMMirgnc Sr C ngo•en Sl 
ylee CvMgssgSr aCsgsD
What types of student housing are available?
kClre,ge ueffSr pCs C riMael Sy nlCvgngSrCf lesgveroe pCffs Ignp oSMMSr aCnp 
yCogfgnges Cs Ieff Cs C riMael Sy lesgveroe pCffs Ignp hlgbCne Sl seMg1hlgbCne aCnpsD 
6 riMael Sy sgr,fe se7 CleCs Cs Ieff Cs sSMe oSev yCogfgnges Cle CbCgfCafe ySl 
irvel,lCviCnesD 6s C lifet CleCs MCc ae oSev Sl sgr,fe se7 Cs aCnplSSM yCogfgnges 
helMgnD 6fsS Syyelev Cle C bClgenc Sy ChClnMern shCoes aSnp Sr oCMhis gr 
irgbelsgnc1SIrev aigfvgr,s Cs Ieff Cs Syy oCMhis gr aigfvgr,s lernev ySl 
irvel,lCviCne pSisgr,D
How are room requests handled?
Ope irgbelsgnc!s pSisgr, scsneM gs aCsgoCffc C sergSlgnc SreH Ignp sergSls 
opSSsgr, yglsnt ySffSIev ac 5irgSls Crv nper ac sShpSMSlesD 4r uClopt 
ihhelofCssMer MCc sefeon npegl lSSMMCnes Crv sheogygo lSSMs gr sergSlgnc Slvel 
ySl npe yCff seMesnelD Ope irgbelsgnc nlCvgngSrCffc Cssg,rs aenIeer Btwww Crv BtBww 
ernelgr, ylespMer nS CbCgfCafe shCoesD Ope Slvel gr Ipgop ylespMer hCc npegl 
vehSsgns nS npe Uyygoe Sy 6vMgssgSr venelMgres npe Slvel gr Ipgop pSisgr, 
hleyeleroe leGiesns Cle pSrSlevD Ope irgbelsgnc gs rSlMCffc Cafe nS CooSMMSvCne 
hleyeleroes ySl Cssg,rMern nS sgr,fe se7 CleCst ain Cssg,rMern nS oSev CleCs gs 
rSn CfICcs hSssgafeD
Can students change rooms during the semester?
3Sisgr, Cssg,rMerns Cle bglniCffc gMMinCafe Cn npe ae,grrgr, Sy npe yCff 
seMesnelt ain Sroe grnS npe CoCveMgo ceCl lSSM opCr,e leGiesns oCr ae 
CooSMMSvCnevD Ope aesn ngMe nS MC•e C lSSM opCr,e gs Cn npe erv Sy npe yCff 
seMesnelt Iper npe irgbelsgnc nlCvgngSrCffc pCs Ieff Sbel Bww bCoCroges nS Syyel 
sniverns IpS leGiesn lSSM opCr,esD
How are guests admitted or identified in the residence halls?
6ff irgbelsgnc aigfvgr,s Cle fSo•ev Crv helMgn ernlCroe Srfc nS heShfe Ignp •ecs 
Sl heShfe CooSMhCrcgr, lesgverns I3S pCbe npegl SIr •ecsD 6n npe nplee 
aigfvgr,s Ignp ylSrn ves•st bgsgnSls Cle Cs•ev nS hlesern npegl kClre,ge ueffSr 
hpSnS 4? oClvD Unpel grvgbgviCfs Cle vgleonev nS npe oernle7 nefehpSre nS oCff npe 
snivern IpSM npec Cle bgsgngr, nS Meen npeM Cn npe ylSrn ves•D
How are the entrances of buildings secured?
.belc Sinsgve vSSl gs opeo•ev vCgfc nS ersile npe ernlCroe gs yirongSrgr, hlShK
elfcD Ope irgbelsgnc pCs lehfCoev npe ygle CfClM scsneM gr sebelCf Sy Sil aigfvgr,st 
Ipele npe hfCr gs nS ise Sre vSSl Cs C MCgr ernlCroe Crv e7gn Crv nS pCbe npe sgve 
vSSls ShelCne Srfc Cs eMel,eroc e7gnsD 6ff Sy Sil lesgveroe pCffs Igff sSSr ae Sr 
C sgMgfCl hfCr Ignp Srfc Sre ernlCroe Crv e7gnD Jgve vSSls ISifv ShelCne Srfc 
Iper C ygle CfClM gs hiffev Sl vilgr, C hSIel SinC,e Sl sgMgfCl eMel,erocD
What are the standard security features used in the residence halls?
TSSMs gr npe irgbelsgnc's lesgveroe pCffs Cle seoilev ac npe Yesn 0So•gr, 
JcsneMD 4r MSsn oCsest npese fSo•s Cle aSfn fSo•s npCn hlSbgve Cr ShngMiM ve,lee 
Sy seoilgnc ySl grvgbgviCf lSSMsD mper lesgverns lehSln •ecs Mgssgr, Sl fSsnt Sl 
yCgf nS lenilr •ecs Cn npe erv Sy npe CoCveMgo ceClt npe irgbelsgnc Gigo•fc opCr,es 
npe fSo• Crv gssies reI •ecs nS npe lesgvernsD Ope irgbelsgnc!s hlSoevile Cssiles 
npCn Srfc npe oillern lesgverns Sy C hClngoifCl lSSM pCbe •ecs nS npCn lSSMD 6ff Sy 
npe yglsn yfSSl vSlMgnSlc soleers Cle Pseoilgnc soleerst" oSrsnlionev Sy C peCbc 
Mesp gr ylCMes CnnCopev nS npe IgrvSI ylCMe gnsefyD
Who is “on-duty" at the residence halls?
Ope irgbelsgnc lefges Sr npe snler,np Sy gns oSMhenern lesgvern CssgsnCrn FT6- snCyyD 
Opele Cle ySil yiff1ngMe hlSyessgSrCf lesgveroe fgye CvMgrgsnlCnSlst oCffev CleC 
oSSlvgrCnSlst Crv Üw snivern lesgvern CssgsnCrns IpS fgbe gr npe lesgveroe pCffs 
Crv pCbe C bClgenc Sy leshSrsgagfgnges ySl CvMgrgsnelgr, npe pCffsD
How are student housing residents informed about security 
procedures and enforcement?
|gC Jnivern 6yyCglst npe lesgvern CssgsnCroe snCyy gs le,ifClfc grySlMevt Cs gs npe 
oCMhis oSMMirgnct Sy bClgSis peCfnp Crv sCyenc oSroelrsD 6ff lesgvern CssgsnCrns 
leoegbe Cr e7nersgbe Iee•1fSr, nlCgrgr, sessgSr ySl hlehClCngSr gr Cgvgr, Crv 
Cvbgsgr, sniverns gr Cff rSr1CoCveMgo gssiesD kCMhis!2Sfgoe sCrongSrev helK
sSrCf sCyenc hlCongoes Cle nCi,pn nS npe T6s IpS nper Cvbgse lesgverns nplSi,p 
aiffengr aSClvst Meengr,s Crv ISl•spShs Cs reevevt grofivgr, hlS,lCMs nS 
peg,pner snivern CICleress Sy helsSrCf oSroelrs siop Cs npe vCr,els Sy vli, 
Crv CfoSpSf Caise Crv npe hlSafeMs Sy sigogve Crv CoGiCgrnCroe lCheD Jeoilgnc 
grySlMCngSr hlS,lCMs Cle hlesernev ac seoilgnc helsSrref nS lesgvern sniverns 
Cn feCsn Sroe Cr CoCveMgo ceCl Ignp sheogCf CnnerngSr nS npSse CleCs npCn MCc 
ae e7helgerogr, irisiCf seoilgnc hlSafeMst Cs Ieff Cs Syy1oCMhis lernCf irgns 
gr fSoCngSrs Ipele sniverns pCbe nS ICf• Sr hiafgo snleens nS nlCbef nS Crv 
ylSM oCMhisD
Are there special security procedures during low-occupancy periods 
such as holidays and vacation periods?
?ilgr, OpCr•s,gbgr, aleC• Crv shlgr, aleC• sheogCf CnnerngSr gs ,gber nS MC•gr, 
sile npCn aigfvgr,s snCc fSo•ev Crv seoile Ignp e7nlC seoilgnc MSrgnSlgr,D ?ilgr, 
npe Igrnel aleC• FylSM Mgv1?eoeMael nS Mgv1&CriClc- Cff ain Sre Sy npe lesgveroe 
yCogfgnges Cle fSo•ev Crv grCooessgafe ac npe rSlMCf lesgvernsD uSleISSv RClvers 
gs Syyelev Cs Cr CfnelrCngbe ySl npSse sniverns IpS oCrrSn nlCbef FChhlS7gMCnefc Ww 
Sl «w sniverns-D uSleISSv RClvers gs MSrgnSlev bgC gns ylSrn ves• Sr C 9«1pSil 
aCsgsD Ope kCMhis 2Sfgoe rCnilCffc groleCse npegl hCnlSfs Sy uSleISSv RClvers 
CleC vilgr, npe Igrnel aleC•'s fSb/SooihCroc helgSvD
Whal is the university’s policy on the housing of guests?
RerelCffct ,iesns Cle CffSIev gr lesgveroe pCff lSSMs gy Cff lesgverns Sy npe lSSM 
C,lee nS npe CllCr,eMernD drgbelsgnc hSfgoc helMgns sniverns nS pCbe ,iesns snCc 
gr npegl lSSM ySl nIS vCcs aeySle SanCgrgr, helMgssgSr ylSM npe 3Sisgr, Uyygoe nS 
CffSI FSl C fSr,el snCcD mgnp npCn e7oehngSrt Ie Cle rSn rSlMCffc Cafe nS hlSbgve 
pSisgr, ySl ,iesns Sy sniverns Sl rSrsniverns vilgr, npe CoCveMgo ceClD 
|CoCroges Ipele npec e7gsn Cle Srfc Syyelev Cs helMCrern shCoes nS Snpel 
irvel,lCviCnes grnelesnev gr fgbgr, gr irgbelsgnc pSisgr, ySl npe leMCgrvel Sy npe 
CoCveMgo ceClD Ope pSisgr, Syygoe oCr CrsIel sheogygo GiesngSrs le,Clvgr, npe 
CbCgfCagfgnc Sy CooSMMSvCngSrs ySl sniverns Crv ,iesnsD
How is the campus community informed of the security, safety 
procedures and crime prevention programs?
kCMhis MevgC Crv hiafgoCngSrs sheogygo nS seoilgnc Crv sCyenc gssies le,ifClfc 
oCllc reIs Crv grySlMCngSr ySl npe irgbelsgnc oSMMirgncD mee•fc MevgC grofive 
npe snivern reIshChelt The Tartan, Crv The 8-1/2x11 News. 6 alSopile CaSin 
npe kCMhis 2Sfgoe Syyels venCgfs Sy spinnfe Crv esoSln selbgoes ySl snivernsD Ope 
Student Handbook gs ihvCnev CrriCffc Crv hlSbgves venCgfs CaSin hSfgoges Crv 
hlSoevilesD Ope Igvefc leCv oCMhis oSMhinel aiffengr aSClv gs CfsS isev Cs Cr 
gMMevgCne MeCrs Sy oSMMirgoCngSrD
The Campus Watch Program
Ope kCMhis mCnop 2lS,lCM gs vesg,rev nS groleCse npe CICleress Sy npe erngle 
oSMMirgnc Cn kClre,ge ueffSrD Ope oSroehn Sy kCMhis mCnop grofives nIS 
sgMhfe CgMsH
BD Ope spClgr, Sy olgMe grySlMCngSr ac kCMhis 2SfgoeD
9D Ope grbSfbeMern Sy npe erngle oSMMirgnc gr lehSlngr, sishgogSis Congbgnc 
Sl ConiCf olgMe oSMMgssgSrD
Crime Alerts
kCMhis 2Sfgoe gssies Cfelns nS npe oSMMirgnc CaSin leoernfc oSMMgnnev olgMesD 
Opese grofive olgMes oSMMgnnev Sr npe oCMhis Cs Ieff Cs gr npe reg,paSlpSSvs Sy 
npe ognc sillSirvgr, npe irgbelsgncD Opese Cfelns Cle gssiev CaSin olgMe npCn gs C 
npleCn nS MeMaels Sy npe oCMhis oSMMirgncD klgMe 6felns ,gbe Cs Miop venCgf Cs 
hSssgafe CaSin npe olgMe gnsefyt Cs Ieff Cs Crc vesolghngSr Sy sisheons Sl bepgofeD 
)CMes Sy bgongMs Cle rebel grofivev gr npe CfelnsD Ope Cfelns erv Ignp nghs nS CbSgv 
aeoSMgr, C bgongMD
Newsletters
Ope ?ehClnMern Sy Jeoilgnc hiafgspes C MSrnpfc reIsfennelt npe PCrime Watch. "Ope 
reIsfennel hlSbgves C siMMClc Sy olgMe vilgr, npe hCsn MSrnpD 4n CfsS Cvbgses npe 
oCMhis CaSin leoern olgMe nlervs siop Cs oSr Clngsns Sl pClCssgr, hpSre oCffsD 
JeCsSrCf Cfelns Igff ae hlesernev nS pefh grySlM npe oCMhis CaSin e7heonev olgMeD 
JheogCfg(ev olgMe nghs Igff ae hlesernev CaSin nShgos siop Cs pSI nS sCyefc ise npe 
6inSMCngo YCr•gr, uCopgresD
Crime Prevention Education
OplSi,p npe ceClt npe Jeoilgnc ?ehClnMern!s klgMe 2leberngSr drgn gs CbCgfCafe nS 
hlesern sCyenc Crv seoilgnc seMgrCls gr lesgveroe pCffst vehClnMern Syygoes Crv Crc 
Snpel senngr, aSnp Sr Crv Syy oCMhisD Opese seMgrCls oCr ae nCgfSlev nS Meen npe 
reevs Sy npe ,lSihD Ope nShgos lCr,e ylSM helsSrCf sCyenct lChe hleberngSrt 
lesgveroe seoilgnct Syygoe seoilgnct sefy1veyerse nCongost bepgofe npeyn Crv Snpel 
nShgosD Opese seMgrCls oCr ae CllCr,ev ac oCffgr, npe kCMhis 2Sfgoe Cn e7nD x9W9WD
Crime Information Line
Ope kCMhis 2Sfgoe ?ehClnMern pCs C 9«1pSil klgMe 4rySlMCngSr 0gre npCn ises 
bSgoe MCgf neoprSfS,c nS hlSbgve olgMe grySlMCngSr nS npe oCMhisD Ope klgMe 
4rySlMCngSr 0gre MCc ae Cooessev Cn Crc ngMe ylSM C nSiop1nSre nefehpSre ac 
oCffgr, 98x1««wwD Ope oCffel Igff ae ,igvev nplSi,p C Meri Sy siop nShgos CsH
S Ope MSsn leoern klgMe 6feln
• 3g,pfg,pns Sy Iee•fc olgMes Crv grogverns
• uSrnpfc olgMe hleberngSr nghs
?li,s Crv 6foSpSf
What is Carnegie Mellon’spolicy on alcoholic beverages and drugs?
Ope irgbelsgnc!s yCoifnct CvMgrgsnlCnSls Crv snCyy leoS,rg(e npe leshSrsgagfgnc 
Crv hSnerngCf pClM grpelern gr npe ise Sy CfoSpSfgo aebelC,esD Ope irgbelsgnc 
gs oSMMgnnev nS sihhSln npe fCIs Sy npe kSMMSrIeCfnp Sy 2errscfbCrgC Crv 
leyfeons npCn sihhSln gr gns hSfgoges Crv hlSoevilesD
What is the Pennsylvania law concerning alcoholic beverages?
Ope kSMMSrIeCfnp fCI snCnes npCn C helsSr IpS gs fess npCr 9B ceCls Sy C,e Crv 
IpS CnneMhns nS hilopCset hilopCsest oSrsiMest hSssesses Sl •rSIgr,fc Crv 
grnerngSrCffc nlCrshSlns Crc CfoSpSft fgGiSl Sl MCfn aebelC,es Ignpgr npe snCne 
oSMMgns C siMMClc SyyerseD ugslehlesernCngSr Sy C,e nS C fgoersev veCfel Sl 
Snpel helsSrs IpS seff Sl yilrgsp grnS7goCngr, fgGiSls oSrsngnines C npglv ve,lee 
MgsveMeCrSlD 0g•eIgset C helsSr oSMMgns C npglv ve,lee MgsveMeCrSl ySl seffgr, 
Sl hlSbgvgr, CfoSpSfgo aebelC,es nS C •rSIr MgrSlD
What is the policy for alcoholic beverages on campus or at 
Carnegie Melton events?
Ope irgbelsgnc ySffSIs npe kSMMSrIeCfnp!s fCI le,Clvgr, grnS7goCngr, aebelC,esD 
Jniverns Cle e7heonev nS oSrvion npeMsefbes aSnp grvgbgviCffc Crv oSffeongbefc gr 
C leshSrsgafe MCrrelD 6aisgbe Sl e7oessgbe oSrsiMhngSr Sy CfoSpSf lesifngr, gr 
grnelyeleroe Ignp npe lg,pns Sy Snpel helsSrst helsSrCf gr5ilc Sl vCMC,e nS hlShelnc 
Igff lesifn gr sebele vgsoghfgrClc CongSrD |gSfCngSrs Sy npe irgbelsgnc's hSfgoc oCr feCv 
nS C ygre gMhSsev ac npe irgbelsgnc Crv npe hSssgagfgnc Sy sishersgSr Crv e7hifsgSrD 
Planning Social Events with Alcohol: Things You Should Know\s C alSopile 
npCn Sinfgres npe irgbelsgnc hSfgoc Sr CfoSpSf Crv grofives C ySlM Sinfgrgr, npe 
leshSrsgagfgnc grbSfbev Ignp selbgr, CfoSpSf Cn Cr ebernD NSl MSle grySlMCngSrt 
leyel nS npe Student Handbook Sl oSrnCon Jnivern 6yyCglsD
What about drugs on campus?
kCMhis 2Sfgoe Cle grsnlionev nS nilr Sbel nS npe )CloSngos JGiCv Sy npe 2gnnsail,p 
2Sfgoe Crc sg,rgygoCrn GiCrngnc Sy vCr,elSis vli,s vgsoSbelev gr npe oSilse Sy 
helySlMgr, npegl vincH Ope MevgoCffc irsihelbgsev ise Sl vgsnlgaingSr Sy hSnerngCffc 
pClMyif vli,s siop Cs MClg5iCrCt pCffiogrS,erst CMhpenCMgrest aClagniCnes Crv 
ShgCnes gs gffe,Cf Crv sia5eon nS belc pClsp herCfngesD mpgfe npe irgbelsgnc vSes rSn 
CssiMe npe leshSrsgagfgnc Sy Congr, Cs Cr ClM Sy npe fCIt MeMaels Sy npe CoCveMgo 
oSMMirgnc pCbe rS gMMirgnc ylSM npe erySloeMern Sy npe fCID ?gsnlgaingSr Crv ise 
Sy npese vli,s MCc npleCner npe hpcsgoCf Crv MernCf peCfnp Sy npe iselt Cs Ieff Cs 
npe IefyCle Sy Snpel sniverns Crv npe CoCveMgo oSMMirgncD Ope vgsoghfgrClc hSfgoc 
Sy npe irgbelsgnc helMgns nC•gr, CongSr aecSrvt Sl sehClCne ylSMt Crc Ipgop MCc ae 
nC•er ac ogbgf CinpSlgngesD 6fsSt npe irgbelsgnc oCrrSn Crv vSes rSn verc Cooess nS 
gns hlShelnc nS fCI erySloeMern C,erns see•gr, nS ihpSfv npe NevelCf Crv 
2errscfbCrgC ?li, 0CIsD Ope Student Handbook yilnpel Sinfgres kClre,ge ueffSr's 
vli, hSfgocD
Opgs lehSln gs hiafgspev gr oSMhfgCroe Ignp 
2errscfbCrgC 0e,gsfCngbe 6on ÜWt JeongSr WH
klgMe JnCngsngos TehSlns Crv Jeoilgnc 2Sfgoges Crv 
2lSoevilest Crv NevelCf 2iafgo 0CI BwB1’«9t Ognfe 44t 
PklgMe 6ICleress Crv kCMhis Jeoilgnc 6on Sy B''wD"
NSl CvvgngSrCf oShges Sl MSle grySlMCngSrt 
oSrnCon npe ?ehClnMern Sy Jeoilgnc Cn «B9198x19W9WD 
2iafgspev &CriClc B''’D

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 199611
Scheduling plays havoc with college seasons
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
The biggest moves of the year 
have already been made — by 
athletic directors. Two new foot­
ball conferences begin play, and 
the Western Athletic Conference 
has ballooned to an obese 16 
schools. Is this just a trend for the 
also-rans of college football find­
ing safety in numbers? Not quite; 
it’s about scheduling.
Nebraska is number one, and 
one of six ranked teams from the 
new Big 12. Together, the Big 12, 
Big 10 (which has 11 teams and 
boasts five national rankings), 
and South Eastern Conference 
(with five of the first 18 ranked 
teams) make up over 60 percent 
of the rankings. As the top teams 
in each of these conferences know, 
this is the year of scheduling.
Despite those five other ranked 
teams in their conference, Ne­
braska only plays four ranked 
teams all year and has two weeks 
to prepare for its toughest match­
ups. The Cornhuskers play at Ari­
zona State in their second outing 
and at home in Lincoln against 
Colorado in the last game of the 
regular season.
Last year’s Big 10 champion, 
Northwestern, returns most of 
its stars and figures to have an 
easier road this time around. They 
avoid playing Ohio State again, 
aren’t scheduled for Notre Dame, 
and won’t have to play at Michi­
gan. In their toughest encounter, 
the Wildcats travel to Penn State 
in early November. Runnerup 
Ohio State plays most of their 
toughest games early, but four of 
the first five are at home.
The Tennessee Volunteers’ 
schedule is designed for a na­
tional championship run. Ten­
nessee is home to the largest ca­
pacity stadium in the nation, and 
when not at home, the Volun­
teers are sure to bring plenty of 
fans, since they only play two
games out of the state.
Taking a page out 
of the Nebraska 
calendar, the 
Miami Hurri­
canes have 
pulled off a 
similar feat.
They will enjoy a 
relatively light sea­
son and have 
planned an extra 
week off before their 
first two games 
against ranked op­
ponents (Florida 
State and Virginia 
Tech), both at home. 
They journey to 
Syracuse on 
both teams’
regular season finales, 
which should deter­
mine the Big East 
winner and could 
guarantee a spot 
in the national 
title game.
Who will be in 
that title game?
You can count out 
Northwestern, Penn 
State, and the entire 
PAC 10 already; they will 
play in the Rose Bowl one 
more year before joining 
the Alliance system. 
Don’t bet on Nebraska ei­
ther: don’t let their back- 
to-back national champi­
onships fool you. 
Nebraska’s not that good.
Don’t be unnerved by legions of 
300-pound linemen, eager to 
pound the opponent. Don’t be per­
suaded by the 62—24 squeaker 
they pulled off against Florida 
last January. The Cornhuskers 
will fold.
Instead, I see orange in the 
Sugar Bowl. Look for a Tennes­
see versus Syracuse/Miami win­
ner. Write that down in your own 
schedule.
Chris Cannon is a junior com­
puter science major and Assis­
tant News Editor for The Tartan. 
He loves college football so much 
that he has fourteen télévisons 
and a satelite dish to make sure 
that he doesn’t m iss a single tackle 
or running play.
Pigskin philosophers decide teams’ 1996-97 futures
Gridiron Grapevine
by Steve Charnoubi
The NFC’s Super Bowl dominance is 
no longer just a trivial bit of informa­
tion. It has become a fact — a law of 
nature. Grandparents now gather their 
grandchildren around the in living room 
and recall the time when the AFC won 
the Super Bowl. And the poor, helpless 
lamb that the AFC will sacrifice to the 
NFC in this year’s Super Bowl will be 
little more than a footnote next to the 
champion the NFC will produce this 
year.
NFC East
1. Dallas Cowboys: Despite all their 
hardships and all their problems, they 
are still the Cowboys, and they are still 
the team to beat.
2. Philadelphia Eagles: Look for a slow 
start, followed by a supernatural finish 
flying the Eagles into the playoffs and 
beyond.
3. Washington Redskins: An improved 
year for a team that is still looking for a 
leader.
4. Arizona Cardinals: Rebuilding is 
never easy, especially when you’re clean­
ing up the mess Buddy Ryan left behind.
5. New York Giants: Remember “Ray 
Handley.” Look for chants of “Reeves 
Must Go!” from a disgruntled Meadow- 
lands arena.
NFC Central
1. Green Bay Packers: Look for an­
other high-flying year from Brett Favre 
and his big-play offense. Reggie’s still 
around, also.
2. Chicago Bears: Could be a big year 
if the defense holds. That’s a BIG if.
3. Detroit Lions: Wayne Fontes is even­
tually going to be fired, and when that 
happens the season goes “Ka-put!”
4. Tampa Bay Buccaneers: “I THINK 
I CAN... I THINK I CAN... Keep try­
ing. This could be their first non-losing 
season in 13 years.
5. Minnesota Vikings: Strong passing 
offense backed up by weak defense and 
a questionable running game. That 
doesn’t cut it in this league. Try the CFL, 
Moon.
NFC West
1. San Francisco 49ers: The Cowboys 
may be the Cowboys, but the 49ers are 
the 49ers. As long as they have Rice they 
will still be the 49ers of legend.
2. Atlanta Falcons: The run & shoot 
will be run to perfection by the last team 
that still has faith in it. Strong bid for a 
playoff berth.
3. St. Louis Rams: The Rams play like 
a college football team with NFL talent. 
With that they will have a strong sea­
son.
4. Carolina Panthers: The Panthers 
are the greatest expansion team ever, 
and they should be in a race for a wild­
card spot this season.
5. New Orleans Saints: This team 
needs a new look, and the best way to 
change your look is to change your 
coach. Jim Mora will always be re­
membered, though.
NFC Wild Cards: Philadelphia 
Eagles, Atlanta Falcons, Chicago Bears
NFC Championship Game: 
Philadelphia Eagles over Green 
Bay Packers
Super Bowl XXXI: Phila 
delphia Eagles over Oakland Raiders
Steve Charnoubi is a junior computer 
science major. He was tested for drugs 
after writing this article — the results 
have yet to come in.
From the Goal Line
by Ronak Singhal
The AFC has not won the Super Bowl 
in over a decade. Although there is no 
reason to believe that trend will not 
continue, the AFC does have a few pros­
pects. Here are the teams that will prove 
me wrong if they defeat the NFC beast:
AFC East
1. New England Patriots: For a de­
cade, Dan 
Marino was the
best quarterback in this division. I apolo­
gize to all you Marino fans out there 
(and I know there are a few of you), but 
that’s no longer the case. Drew Bledsoe 
will show this year that he is the best. Of
course, it helps that the Patriots have a 
very good running back in Curtis Mar­
tin, something that Marino has never 
had.
2. Indianapolis Colts: If they can get 
Kordell Stewart to throw Hail Marys for 
them, they might make the Super Bowl.
3. Buffalo Bills: They are led by Jim 
Kelly, Thurman Thomas, and Bruce 
Smith. I could have written that ten 
years ago. The Bills are too old to get the 
chance to lose a fifth Super Bowl.
4. Miami Dolphins: Jimmy Johnson is 
in Miami. Too bad he did not bring 
Emmitt Smith with him. The Dolphins 
are playing for a nice position in the 
draft.
5. New York Jets: Neil O’Donnell is 
the quarterback. Not a bad guy to have 
at the helm if the rest of your team is 
strong, but with no defense and no run­
ning game, lookfor O’Donnell to flounder.
AFC West
1. San Diego Charg­
ers: Junior Seau is the 
best player in the AFC.
2. Kansas City 
Chiefs: This team lost 
almost no one from 
last year’s team, 
which had the best 
regular season 
record in the AFC. 
That’s the prob­
lem. They will un­
doubtedly make the 
playoffs and then 
choke. It’s tough to 
argue with head 
coach Marty 
Schotten- 
h e i m e r ’ s 
record in 
that category.
3. Denver Broncos: John Elway finally 
got a running game last year with T err ell 
Davis. Expect Elway to work enough 
magic to get his team back to the playoffs.
4. Seattle Seahawks: The Seahawks
have Chris Warren and Joey Galloway 
on offense and Cortez Kennedy on de­
fense. But they also have Rick Mirer at 
QB. It’s a tough division.
5. Oakland Raiders: Someone has to 
finish last.
AFC Central
1. Pittsburgh Steelers: The Steelers 
won their first Super Bowl with an awe­
some defense despite having a young, 
immature quarterback whose main duty 
was handing the ball off and not throw­
ing interceptions. Jim Miller may not be 
Terry Bradshaw, but with a strong run­
ning game, Miller should be OK. Their 
defense gets Rod Woodson back and has 
the ability to be the best in football. And 
the Steelers of the ’70s never had Kordell 
Stewart.
2. Cincinnati Bengals: With Jeff Blake 
throwing his patented deep bombs to 
speedsters Carl Pickens and Darnay 
Scott, plus with the potential of a run­
ning game featuring Ki-jana Carter and 
Garrison Hearst, the Bengals will put 
up quite a few points. Their problem is 
going to be in stopping their opponent 
from scoring.
3. Houston Oilers: The Oilers are mov­
ing to Nashville next year, so their fans 
really do not care about them. Watch 
them sing the country blues at the As­
trodome.
4. Jacksonville Jaguars: Give this team 
a few more years and they could be very 
good.
5. Baltimore Ravens: VinnyTestaverde 
is the quarterback. Enough said.
Division champs: Pittsburgh 
Steelers, San Diego Chargers, New En­
gland Patriots
Wild Cards: Cincinnati Bengals, 
Kansas City Chiefs, Denver Broncos
AFC Champion: Pittsburgh Steelers
Super Bowl Prediction: Green Bay 
Packers over Pittsburgh Steelers
Ronak Singhal is a senior ECE major.
'Carnegie Mellon sheds -some ¦ light on earapus seeuaty
Opele!s rS leCsSr nS ae gr npe vCl• CaSin oCMhis seoilgncD 6 neCM Sy kClre,ge ueffSr hSfgoe Syygoelst seoilgnc ,iClvst Crv pSisgr, Crv snivern CyyCgls snCyy MeMaels ISl• nS •eeh snivernst 
yCoifnct snCyy Crv bgsgnSls grySlMev Crv sCye Sr npe oCMhis Crv Cv5Coern CleCsD Opese hlSyessgSrCfs Cle oSroelrev Ignp npe sCyenc Crv IefyCle Sy npe oCMhis oSMMirgnc Crv Cle aesn Cafe nS 
CrsIel GiesngSrs CaSin oCMhis seoilgncD
Ope kClre,ge ueffSr kSMMirgnckClre,ge ueffSr drgbelsgnc ?ehClnMern Sy Jeoilgnc klgMe JnCngsngos TehSln
kCne,Slges Sy klgMe
B''W 
JnCngsngos TCnes
B''« 
JnCngsngos TCnes
B''’ 
JnCngsngos TCnes
uilvel & )Srre,fg,ern uCrsfCi,pnelwwwwww
uCrsfCiCpnel ab )eCfgCeroe'wwwwww
NSlogafe TChe;wwwwww
)Sr1NSlogafe TChe;wwwwww
TSaaelc9Dwwww9BDwww'ww
6,,lCbCnev 6ssCifnwwwwww
Yil,fClc1YleC•gr, Crv .rnelgr,xDwwwÜB8DwwBBWDwwB
0Cloerb1Opeyn F.7oehn uD|D OpeFn-9«WDw99B'Dw999xDw9
uSnSl |epgofe Openn8Dwww8ÜDwww8WDwwwW
Ufpel 6ssCifnsBDwwww'9DwwwB’Dwww’
6lsSrwwwwww
NSlCelb & kSirnelyegngrSwwwwww
NlCivwwwwBtwwww'
JnSfer 2lShelncH TeoDt 2SssDD Yicgr,wwwwWDwwwW
|CrvCfgsM8WDww89BDww9W«DwwW
meChSrst kCllcgr,t 2SssessgSrBwwwww
0gGiSl 0CIsB«DwwB«'Dww’«'Dww’
Je7 Uyyerses F.7oehn TChe & 2lSsngningSr-• wwBDwwww'9Dwww9
?li, 6aise |gSfCngSrs9Dwww9WDwwwWB8DwwB
?lir•erressBBDwwBWDwwwWB8DwwB
?gsSlvelfc kSrvion«’Dw«««Dww«WxDww«
|C,lCrocwwwwww
6ff Unpel Uyyerses F.7oehn OlCyygo-BwÜDwB8’Dww8’ÜDww’
(for the 1994-95 Academic Year)
Niff1OgMe 2Cln1OgMeOSnCf
drvel,lCviCnes«D’Ü9
RlCviCne snivernsBDÜ’w9t8BB
)Sr1ve,lee snivernsw B«BB«B
.MhfScees FrSr1snivern-Wtw9x ’9’Wt’’W
OSnCfBwtxÜÜ
6llesn JnCngsngos
B''W B''«B''’
kCne,Slges Sf klgMesJnCngsngos JnCngsngosJnCngsngos
0gGiSl 0CIs |gSfCngSr9’ «'«'
?li, 6aise |gSfCngSrs9 WB8
V meChSrs 2SssessgSrs |gSfCngSrs B ww
Opgs lehSln gs hiafgspev gr oSMhfgCroe Ignp 2errscfbCrgC 0e,gsfCngbe 
6on ÜWt JeongSr WH klgMe JnCngsngos TehSlns Crv Jeoilgnc 2Sfgoges Crv 
2lSoevilest Crv NevelCf 2iafgo 0CI BwB1’«9t Ognfe 44t "klgMe 
6ICleress Crv kCMhis Jeoilgnc 6on Sy B''wD"
NSl CvvgngSrCf oShges Sl MSle grySlMCngSrt 
oSrnCon npe ?ehClnMern Sy Jeoilgnc Cn «B9198x19W9WD
2iafgspev &CriClc B''8D
CariWie 
Mello
Crime rates are based on the numbers and categories of crime, divided by the university's total number of students and employees. 
Figures are per one thousand headcount.
'The number of rapes reported to Campus Police does not reflect the incidents of sexual assault on our campus, a crime that is 
historically underreported. The Carnegie Mellon Sexual Assault Advisory Group continually works to educate and protect the 
campus communily.

---------------------------------------------------

By PAUL BOOTHE fying force on the court.”
Tartan Sports Editor Webb’fis also looking forward'
& DAWN PAPUGA to the future of the team, as
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor they'have a core of four sopho­
mores a$id five freshmen who 
In addition to the hundreds will be the basis of the team for 
of new faces that have appeared the next^few years, 
on campus in the last week, the The new pool in -the UC isn’t
Athletic Department will be the only change that the swim 
adding a few of their own. Two team; is looking forward to this 
new coaches have been hired: season, as Dr. David Belowich 
Julie Webb, the new women’s assuines the role of head men’s 
volleyball coach, and Dr. David and women’s swimming and 
Belowich, the new swimming/ diving coach at CMU. He was 
diving coach. formerly the University of
Webb comes to Carnegie Pittsburgh’s head women’s 
Mellon from Mprrisville^aton coach for 12 years, during which 
Central High School "'tiewais named Big-East-Coach-
(MorrisVille, N.Y.), where she of-the-Year five times arid pro- 
has been the girl’s volleyball duced 47 Big East individual 
coach for the last two seasons, and relay champions, and 13 
In her . time at Morrisville- All-Americans.
Eaton, the team made it to the , Pitt isn’t the only college at 
I Center State Conference semi-; which Dr.. Belowich coached, 
finals in 1995-96 and finished Prior to Pitt he was the head 
the season with a 1-7—4 record, woman’s coach at the Univer- 
Webb was also the. assistant sity of South Florida and the 
coach of the women’s volleyball men’s assistant at Florida State 
team at Hamilton. College in University.
1995, and the assistant coach Dr. Belowich recently comes
of the men’s volleyball team at to CMU from a head coaching 
Fayetteville-Manlius High j'ob at Seneca Valley High 
School during the’94 season — School in Zelienople, Pa. In 
whfen the team won the sec- their., last season, Seneca 
tional tournament title and Valley’sgirls and boys squads 
competed in the state playoffs, both ^finished among the top 
Webb takes over for Heather five teams in the WPIAL, and 
Hollands,, who after three sea^ produced two individual 
sons as head volleyball coach champions, 
for CMU, went to Georgia In- One of the first orders of busi-
stitute of Technology to become ness for Belowich will be to in- 
an assistant volleyball coach, terview people for the assis- 
Webb, 24, graduated from the tant coaching position for the 
University of Vermont in 1993 team. The assistant coach will 
with a bachelor’s degree in his- be infcharge of the diving team, 
tory. In her . own four-year da-1. Some inquiries have been made, 
reer at Vermont, Webb earned but nothing has been decided 
three varsity letters as a middle thus far. Belowich will also have 
blocker and outside hitter. She to forrn a|te.\y yarsit^teamfrom 
has'twice received all-tourna- scratch. For the first time in 
merit team honors. CMU history, the ¿swimming
Webb is very excited about team will also feature a diving 
the upcoming season and opti- squad. Belowich has received 
mistic afeout the team’s pros- several inquiries, and knows of 
pec|s. She said, “We have im- at least six students of differ- 
proved 100 percent and we’ve ent ¿till levels who are inter- 
only practiced a week.” In addi- ested; in diving, 
tion to seven returning play- With 19 years of college coach-
ers, the team adds five new ing experience, and 25 years 
freshmen and one new sopho- overall, Belowich feels that*he 
more to the squad. has a. “good handle on what
Right now, the team is focus- makes a successful program” 
ing on their serve/receive and and he’s looking to bring this to 
defense strategy, because a6-‘ CMlJ. Belowich said, “Every- 
cordingto Webb, “Defense wins one needs to have a common 
games.” The team is working to goal ... individual, obtainable 
hone their skill and overall play, goals, as well as team goals.” 
and the squad’s “teamwork will Belowich emphasizes the team 
be impressive.” aspect of swimming/diving, as
The team is also working to well as the more traditional as- 
dev.elop the freshmen into the pect of personal competition, 
program. Webb says that the Most of all, Belowich wants the 
freshmen have been very ag-- athletes to enjoy the sport. Be- 
gressive and are ready to start, cause for most swimmers, col- 
contributing to the team right lege is the last level of competi- 
from the start. tion, he believes that their colT
“We will hopefully challenge lege “should be a culmination 
some of the dominant teams,” of a career.” 
she said. “... We have the talent The swim team will begin 
to do something like that.” practices in about three weeks 
The team will be looking to to prepare for the beginning of 
senior captain Sarah Pacocha the season on November 2. The 
to lead the team this season, volleyball team kicks off its sea- 
“Sarah is the center of the team son this weekend with a two- 
on the court right now, “ said day tournament at Oberlin 
Webb. “[Pacocha] is the solidi- College.
Men return from tourney with 2—0 record
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
'The men’s soccer team had an 
excellent start to their season 
this past weekend as they trav­
eled to the Lycoming Valley 
Tburnament and returned with 
at2—0 record. In the first match 
of the two-day tourney, the Tar­
tans went up against North 
Carolina Wesleyan College. 
Junior forward Jason Buelow 
had an excellent game, scoring 
ailKhree goals to give the team 
a;-3-0 win. The team put to­
gether some excellent scoring 
opportunities, and head coach 
Nick Gaudioso said that if not 
for the excellent performance of 
N.C. Wesleyan’s goalkeeper, the 
team would have scored many
In the second game, the Tar­
tans defeated Ursinus College 
5-4.;. The team spread out the 
goals this time around, with 
freshman midfielder John 
Petrillo burying two in the back 
of the net, and Buelow, fresh­
man back Dave Huryk, and 
sophomore forward Harry 
Ulrich each bringing back one 
gdalv CMU dominated the game 
much more than the close score 
indicates; the Tartans were up 
5f-3 with 15 minutes to go in the 
game, and allowed an easy goal. 
Gfaudioso said that the team’s 
pl;ay was shaky in the second 
game, but attributed it mostly 
to fatigue. He also said that the 
team made a number of mis-Atlanta resident provides inside look at Centennial Olympic Games
May 18 - July 18,1996: Pre- 
Olympic hype is inescapable. 
Construction has overtaken the 
city as workers prepare Atlanta 
for a world party. Coke and Nike 
ads overrun the city. Tickets are 
in high demand, especially for 
gymnastics, track, swimming, 
and basketball.
July 19,1996: The first day of 
the games, and all I can think 
about is traffic. Traffic is bad 
enough in Atlanta without the 
largest peacetime event in his­
tory. As I merge onto 1-85 this 
morning I am stunned. No traf­
fic! Everyone has either gone on 
vacation or taken public trans­
portation. I watch the Opening
Ceremonies on TV, less than 20 
miles from the Olympic Stadium.
July 21,1996: Today I am go­
ing to see women’s gymnastics. 
We decide to stop at the Olympic 
Park before the event. After 
months of construction, a run­
down slum has been converted 
into this beacon of unity and cel­
ebration. Making our way to the 
Georgia Dome, we pass through 
metal detectors and bag inspec­
tors. Security is a very large pres­
ence, but once inside the dome, 
the atmosphere becomes relaxed. 
I watch Team USA breeze 
through the compulsory exercises 
with only minor mistakes, and 
Shannon Miller’s beam routine
and Kerri Strug’s floor exercise 
are virtually flawless. The Rus­
sians and Chinese also impress, 
notably Svetlana Khorkina and 
Mo Huilan.
July 25, 1996: I am going to 
men’s volleyball after work. The 
match is the United States vs. 
Cuba, and is completely sold out. 
In the first game, the U.S. is fu­
eled by the crowd and handily 
defeats the Cubans. Cuba retali­
ates with a strong second game 
that sees the U.S. attempt a val­
iant but unsuccessful comeback. 
The U.S. wins the third of the 
best-of-five series, but Cuba 
quickly matches with a victory in 
the fourth game. The fifth game
in volleyball is scored differently, aggressive two straight points, 
so that possession is not a re- and it is now game point for Cuba, 
quirement to score a point, hence Please see, OLYMPICS, page 9
a very fast- ^----------------------.—--------------------- -------------
paced game.
Ogev B’1B’ Y 5yff
ami in-in,i; ...... ........................ > ~
necessary tu 
win by two I 
points, the I 
U.S. team's ¦
Brian Ivie ¦ 
nails a spike 
down tin- |§ 
middle lu H 
put the U.S.
up 16—15. Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor
Cubastrikes Ope kernerrgCf UfcMhgo JnCvgiM ICs ygffev nS 
back with an MC7gMiM oChCognc ySl Miop Sy npe RCMesD
Olympic Report
by Jason Siegendorf
When people ask me where I 
live, I tell them, “Atlanta.” The 
next question is invariably, “Did 
you go to the Olympics?”
I did go to the Olympics. I not only 
went to the Olympics, I lived, 
breathed, and endured the Olym­
pics. So to satisfy all your curiosities 
aboutthe games, Ipresentajournal 
of. my experiences this summer.
SPORTS
Ope OClnCrt kClre,ge ueffSr drgbelsgnct 2gnnsail,pt 2errscfbCrgC
Soccer teams start with wins
Women shut out Walsh for first victory
|SfiMe 'Bt 4ssie BW JehneMael B''8
Two new coaches 
lead Tartan teams

---------------------------------------------------

T TTTT1T/Mnuansararaiannra
I_______________________________;___________________________________________________________________________________
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
University Center
Becomes a Reality
By SHARMÏLA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Editor
i... — r
l-Ping Ll/Tartan Systems Manager
UC 1st Floor Key
4 T.O640 JOUT.J
k362.0
UNN4k.J
ukkU)UuL
6d?4OUT4du
kU))6)
TUUu
kUuuU)J & 
?4)4)R 6T.6J
6O3.0.O4k
N6k404O4.J
For the past two years the typical answer to any number of social 
problems on campus from dining facilities to student interaction has 
been the highly anticipated University Center, and now that it’s here it 
is time to see if it will live up to expectations. Keeping the intentions of 
the building in mind, students and adminsitrators are curious to see how 
space will be taken advantage of throughout the Center.
“The ultimate design of this building was to create something com­
pletely different than anything done here at CMU before,” said Steve 
Sitrin, director of the University Center. “There’s lots of open space and 
light. CMU is usually very functional and dedicated to its purpose.” 
By moving away from such such a clinical image, the administra­
tion hopes to achieve its two major goals — to promote interaction 
among students, faculty and staff and provide a space that facilitates 
academic relief.
“I think the most important aspect of the UC is that no classes will 
be held here,” said Sitrin. “We’re delibrately keeping the focus of the 
building off of academics.”
While quiet study rooms are available throughout the building for 
student use, computer clusters were purposely left out to encourage 
students to make use of the building as a social outlet. “This building was 
meant to be an interactive space. When the architects and 
designers studied the campus as a whole, they saw this school 
as such an intense place,” said Sitrin. Sitrin said extra 
study space will be provided during midterm and final 
examinations, but even then the building should be used 
as a refuge rather than a space to pull all-nighters.
The UC provides many facilities besides just athletic 
space and dining areas; students can watch a movie, take 
recreational classes offered in the activity room, and become 
part of a number of student organizations that are found on the 
third floor. But the problem of visibility for most of these groups 
remains the same. The lack of student traffic makes it difficult for 
groups to make themselves available to those who might be 
interested in taking part. Students rarely frequent the 
third floor, unless they are already involved in an orga­
nization.
Despite the number of organized activities that are 
housed in the UC, one of its biggest advantages is the use 
of undefined space that was designed for students to 
personalize to their own needs. Areas such as the Kirr 
Commons and Merson Courtyard are equipped with 
tables and chairs for eating, studying, or socializing and 
so' far students haven’t been shy about putting their feet 
up and letting their hair down.
“Students have been making themselves at home,” 
said Sitrin. “They don’t hesitate to sit on the floor, even 
if there are seats available. We want people to feel 
comfortable to do what they want.”
Remembering the initial goal of interaction, most of 
the recreational area was intended to discourage cliques 
and seperation of groups in the building, but rather 
socializing between groups that would not usually social­
ize. Before the completion of the UC, a major complaint of students was the lack of a common meeting grounds; the 
UC now provides a single space that everyone has a reason to enter. Interaction now has a chance beyond just the 
departmental or college level.
“The biggest complaint I’ve heard [of the building] so far is that the eating facilities are placed right next to the 
fitness rooms,” said Rob Pietri, a senior communication design major. But, in fact the proximity of the two was 
planned as such so students could come into contact with a greater number of people on campus.
“There’s a different constituency here than in any academic building or dorm on campus,” said Sitrin.
“When I was in college we used the term, ‘facetime’ — it was meant to describe people hanging out with other 
people. The more time you spent in an open space, the more faces you saw, “ said Sitrin. “I think this building is 
really good for that.”
“I believe the University Center has provided itself to be ... a building which has made more vibrant a spirit of 
the community, which has always existed more subtly here,” said Michael Murphy, dean of student affairs.
Sitrin said that eating areas in the building were designed to act as more than just a dining hall, such as 
Highlander; the seating is versatile enough for students to use for purposes other than eating.
Just about every space in the building is available for student use; all second floor meeting rooms can be reserved 
for student organizations or for informal meetings held by individuals.
One area that Sitrin hopes to see students make use of is the Chapel, which he describes as a non-denominational 
room that tends to be downplayed by a facility. “It allows for quiet reflection and I hope students take advantage 
of that.”
Mural reflects Pittsburgh, CMU’s past, present and future
By AMANDA SPEAR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Construction has been a constant theme here at CMU for the 
past two years, with the much anticipated University Center as 
the focal point.The new building has been under construction for 
the last two years, but what most students don’t realize is that 
ideas for the interior decoration were germinating even before 
then. One of the main decorative features in the new building is 
the huge mural on the second floor of the rotunda, along the east, 
west and north walls of the building.
The idea originated with Martin Prekop, dean of CFA, who 
asked Doug Cooper, a professor of architecture here at CMU, to 
execute the project. Cooper, who is also an alumnus (class of 70), 
said, “I knew it would be long hours and hard work from the get- 
go.” He knew immediately, however, that the upper rotunda was 
the space he wanted to use. It took him one year to complete with
the assistance of John Travelli, a art alumnus, and 
Jonathan Kline, a fifth year student architecture.
The mural is 200 feet long and eleven feet high, and is 
mounted one foot off the floor, giving it a total height of 12 
feet. The work was done in Cooper’s studio in Lower 
Greenfield and no one saw it as it wasn’t meant to be 
seen until it was installed in late May of this year, 
although Cooper and his assistants were able to see about 
twenty four feet of the width of the mural at a time. The 
mural is designed to correspond with the way people 
move in the space. For example, there are two columns in 
the mural, on either side of the doors which lead into the 
food court. These are lined up with the actual, physical 
columns of the university center, so it appears that the 
viewer is walking through a natural set of columns.
The mural encompasses past, present and future, show- 
2feCse see udT60t hC,e 09Jason Slegendorf/Tartan F
JnCrvgr, 9ww ac 11 yeen nCff 4r npe drgbelsgnc kernelt nlCoes kud p
111111B

---------------------------------------------------

Magical orientation welcomes Class of 200(|
Hi- [1 AN I? J U L M I* T' I? J ' Hi-1 niDnnotn r*nMrrlir»of [U[ f Cf’lmrlnlo] alen nroi'ontorl mo frnm 1[ANI rQortinn nf m lot tor nnnnorl Hv Anrlv-
L2 The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996
By DAN ROSENBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
There was a sort of magic 
that prevailed throughout this 
year’s freshman Orientation.
It wasn’t the kind of magic that 
illusionist Craig Karges per­
formed when he placed his palm 
on an end table and caused it to 
rise above the ground. Nor was 
it the magic of Mother Nature 
who made sure it didn’t rain 
during any of the outdoor Ori­
entation activities. This magic 
is the spirit of the freshmen 
who, during Playfair, came into 
the bleachers to give hugs and 
words of encouragement to an injured 
classmate; the spirit of the numerous 
first-year students who checked on the
Mac Mirchandanl/special to the Tartan 
NlespMer hClnc 4n ih Sr npe kfghhelspfhD
tire freshman class to break into a chant 
of “CMU! CMU!” following Saturday 
evening’s slide presentation. This spirit 
is the magic of the Class of 
2000.
Both the freshmen and 
the administrative orien­
tation staff believe that 
this magic originated from 
the enthusiasm of the OCs.
Miyuki De-Bruin said 
it felt wonderful to have 
the OCs say “hello” to her 
not only throughout ori­
entation week, but also 
during the first week of 
classes. “It’s nice to know 
they care about you, and I 
bet many other freshman 
Mac Mirchandani/special to the Tartan feel the same way ” she 
Jniverns ofSIr ClSirv vilgr, SlgernCngSr yesngbgngesD said. 
condition of orientation counselor (OC) “The staff brought out the best in the 
Jennifer Olsen after she fainted during class of2000 (and) CMU is a better place 
Playfair; the spirit that caused the en- because of them,” said Kimberly
DiDohato, coordinator of schedule] also prevented me from get- 
Student Life for first-year ting homesick.”
students. A new Orientation tradition created
The OC’s, however, credit the greatest range of emotion among 
the magic to the freshmen, both the freshmen and the OC’s. This 
Rich Yavorsky said, “This year marked the first annual Convocá­
is one of the best orienta- tion, which DiDonato described as “a 
tions I’ve seen (in large part kick off to academic life at CMU [and] a 
due to the Tiigh spirits’ of bookend to commencement.” 
the freshman class) and I’ve The ceremony consisted of presenta-
been through three.” Both tions by both faculty and students in- 
Yuzo Watanabe and Anj ana eluding Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy, Student Body President Bryon 
Krug, Student Body Vice President 
Katie Hart, University President Rob­
ert Mehrabian, and Mark Stehlik, as­
sistant dean of computer science, who 
gave the Keynote Address.
Also included in the ceremony were 
the presentation of the class tile and the
Trivedi believed that a lot 
of the spirit came from the 
freshmen’s desire to be at 
CMU Watanabe, whose 
been an OC for three years, 
said, “The incoming fresh­
men have been a hell of a lot happier 
than previous classes, probably due to 
the rise in applications and a general 
‘I want to get into CMU’ mentality 
that pervades this class... I’ve also 
noticed that they seemed a lot brighter 
and even wittier than usual.”
The activities that the freshmen 
spoke most highly of were the enter­
tainers, namely Karges, comedian 
Buzz Sutherland, musician Jason 
Caldeira (CMU alumus), and comedy 
troupe Selected Hilarity, Playfair; the 
Talent Show; the Slide Show; and the 
Clippership Dance Cruise. They were 
not, however, fond of meal bracelets, 
long lines (for registration and for 
meals), and the “mandatory” testing.
In addition, several students com­
plained of not having enough free 
time. One student said, “Orientation 
gave us no free time to get any neces­
sary paperwork done without skip­
ping events. However, [the crowded
reading of a letter penned by Andre! 
Carnegie.
While orientation did provide mai 
hours of enjoyment for both the fres| 
men and the orientation staff, it j 
served a very important purpose: 
allowed the first-year students to 
come acquainted with college life ar 
with each other 
Perhaps the week can best be d.jg 
scribed by freshman Chris Quirk. “Ti0 
week was a many-faceted, curioi|| 
thing,” he said. Or perhaps DiDonajlj 
summed up the week best, “Exhilara j 
ingly exhausting.”
After speaking to several individua 
involved in the week’s activities, hoi 
ever, there seems to be only one woi 
that come to mind to describe it t}| 
expereince: magical
Director of UC fits into new role
Mac Mirchandani/special to the Tartar® 
UlgernCngSr ae,Cr gr npe ,cM Cs sniverns leoegbev npegl 4?s Crv oCMhis grySlMCngSr!
By ANNE MARIE DEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Feed the world. Stop crime. 
Teach the world to sing.
While most people dream 
about such things, Steve Sitrin 
has them on his list of things to 
do today.
Steve Sitrin once managed a 
restaurant and now instead of 
coordinating waiters and cooks, 
he is coordinating athletics, re­
tail services, dining services, and 
student activities as the new di­
rector of the University Center. 
With his goals as high as they 
¡are, it’s no wonder he’s the right 
;man for the job.
; At the opening celebration last 
Wednesday, you might have seen 
;Sitrin wandering around, ob­
serving the events. In his first 
¡few weeks as director of the UC, 
¡he has already earned a reputa­
tion as the most visible adminis­
trator on campus.
He would like to have big party 
¡events on a regular basis, and he 
¡used last week’s event to see 
¡what worked and what didn’t 
¡work.
; Sitrin oversees many things 
¡in his day to day duties at the 
;UC, including maintenance and 
¡housekeeping, scheduling and
provision of services for events, 
and coordinating the different 
programs and people in the build­
ing. “We want to try to find a way 
to make the University Center 
more than the sum of its parts.” 
he said. “We can make all activi­
ties better by locating them in 
the same facility and encourag­
ing interaction between differ­
ent groups that might not in­
teract otherwise.”
“What’s been constructed and 
the opportunities it supplies are 
light years ahead of facilities at 
other universities,” he said. 
Now that the UC is open, his 
goals include maintaining it at 
“a level that continues to be 
outstanding and to make it a 
community center rather than 
a place where a whole bunch of 
things happen.”
“Everyone sees the Univer­
sity Center as a solution to all 
the problems at Carnegie 
Mellon, but it is not,” he said, 
which makes his job intimidat­
ing in some aspects. “And we 
have already reached a point 
where demand exceeds the sup­
ply of services.”
Seeing students using the Uni­
versity Center and enjoying it 
has been Sitrin’s favorite part of 
working here so far. “The first
two months with the place filled 
with construction workers is hot 
the same as having people use 
it,” he said. If Sitrin could have 
changed anything about the 
opening, he would have made 
sure that the grass was grown 
and not fenced off from students.
Jason Siegepdorf/Tartan Photo Editor 
dk vgleonSl Jnebe Jgnlgr IefoSMes 
sniverns grnS npe reI oernelD
Sitrin came to Carnegie Mellon 
from George Washington Uni­
versity in Washington, D.C. 
There he had served as director 
of the student center for the past
four years. Originally from Al­
bany, NY, his educational back­
ground is in Industrial and La- 
jDor Relations, with a degree from 
Cornell University.
The move to Pittsburgh was 
pleasant for Sitrin. He said that 
he loves the campus, and classi- 
j fies CMU as a suburban cam­
pus since it has access to a ma­
jor city with a sense of seclu- 
j sion.
This was a big change from 
GWU, which is an urban cam­
pus with much less open green 
space, similar to the University 
of Pittsburgh.
“I have had a positive experi­
ence in terms of the campus 
community,” he said, adding 
that everyone he has met has 
been nice and that his favorite 
aspect of his job is that he gets 
to interact with everyone at 
CMU.
So what is the favorite spot of 
the director of this huge build­
ing? The chapel, because it is 
quiet and removed. Pay atten­
tion as you walk along the front 
of the building, and you’ll no­
tice the stained glass window. 
Sitrin called the non-denomina- 
tional room “a really nice space. 
I hope more people will get in 
there and utilize it.”
UC artist makes an impression
MURAL, from page LI
“For me ... it creates a 
sense of the city. ”
— Doug Cooper; 
professor of architecture
ing images that 
run the gamut 
from the old 
Forbes Field to 
downtown today 
and to CMU as it 
will look in the 
future, after the 
construction of
___________________________________________ the Purnell Cen-
ter for the arts. 
Kline is a fan of
the older parts of Pittsburgh that are now gone, such as the mills 
illustrated in the mural. He also particularly likes the large 
foreground sections that show people sitting on their porches. Kline 
has only seen the final installed product once, and briefly (he is 
studying in Switzerland this semester).“...I only know part of the 
thing intimately, so the judgment is premature.. .1 love the old, hilly 
parts of the city and seeing them represented is wonderful,” he said.
Cooper most enjoys the areas that have to do with Forbes Field, 
which was still in existence when he came to CMU. “For me, more 
strongly than anything, it creates a sense of the city,” he said. He 
has also tried to invoke the old industrial character of the city, as 
well as represent CMU’s place, as well as other colleges. Duquesne 
and the University of Pittsurgh Medical Center are visible.
The mural is drawn on acid free paper and glued to particle board 
with an acrylic gel. The drawing was done with charcoal and coated 
with four coats of clear acrylic. There is a reversible varnish over 
the acrylic, which is what gives the mural it’s soft, semi-matte 
surface. It is not, contrary to popular rumor, interactive art.
Men behind UC remember project
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
\ “You have to understand that 
Something as large as this was not 
£ Monday through Friday job. It 
ivas a major part of our lives. It 
literally consumed us and our fami­
lies for three years,” said Tom 
JVIurphy, project manager of the 
hewly built University Center.
! Murphy along with Joe 
preenaway,
Construction 
jnan ager , 
played a funda­
mental role in 
the early de­
sign and con­
struction of the 
building. For 
the past three 
years, these 
two master­
minds have
hurdled ob- Jason Siegendcrf/Tartan Photo Editor were concerned with
stacles so that uilhfgc ConSv Cs hlS5eon was a 73 sewer
construction of rnana£er Ay the dkD line located near the
the center could proceed as effi- job sight. It was a bit of a challenge 
ciently as possible. They have to work around it. We had to find 
worked on the project day and the exact location and send divers 
night beginning in the spring of through the sewer, but the City of
1994. “We were given permission 
to bid the job to the contractors. 
We worked with Turner Construc­
tion Company. When Sldbo closed 
in May, Joe and Turner Construc­
tion then took over all field opera­
tions,” said Murphy.
July 5,1994 marked the demoli­
tion day of Skibo, the previous 
campus university center.
Greenaway said, “The demoli­
tion of Skibo proceeded without 
incident. There were 
some asbestos con­
cerns, but overall it 
was a smooth demo­
lition.”
Following this, the 
foundation was set in 
August. However, 
the construction 
team was faced with 
a problem.
Greenaway said, 
“One of rhe things we
Pittsburgh was very helpful.”
In fact, both men were pleased 
with the overall enthusiasm the 
city as well as workers gave them 
throughout the construction pe­
riod. “We received 
tremendous sup­
port from the city.
They really kept 
us on our toes 
aboutkeepingthe 
streets clean. We 
had no labor prob­
lems or major dis­
putes of any 
kind,” said 
Murphy.
“From day one 
it was an acci- 
dent-freejob site,” 
said Greenaway.
The managers were also happy 
with the support from the mem­
bers of the CMU community. “I 
would say the students and the 
faculty were great. The entire cam­
pus community worked with us,” 
said Murphy.
After they overcame the sewer 
line problem, construction contin­
ued as planned. “From that time 
on we maintained a normal build­
ing sequence. It was on a large 
scale. There were no major con­
cerns,” said Murphy.
Some minor setbacks included 
inclement weather. Time delays 
in getting deliveries 
to the construction 
site resulted from 
bad snow weather. 
“Deliveries of struc­
tural steel were a 
key element in stay­
ing with the sched­
uled completion 
date of the job,” said 
Greenaway.
Though the men 
are thrilled to see 
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor the University Cen­
ter open and in use, 
they are a bit sad
RleerCICc MCrC,ev 
oSrsnliongSr Sy npe dkD
that their work is over. “The day to 
day rush is gone. The adrenaline 
rush is over. I just want to thank 
Tom for giving me the latitude in 
the field to move freely,” said 
Greenaway.
Both men would like to thank 
the many people who worked on 
the project including Turner Con­
struction Company, Lou Ferrara, 
Don Krantz, and Kevin Leskow.
ATTENTION FEMALE STUDENTS
Novum, Inc. seeks:
• healthy
• average weight
• fair-complected (NO TANS!)
• non-smoking
• females
• ages 1S-SOto participate in a 
medically-supervised 
drug research study.
Earn up to $170.00
if you qualify and participate.
Call (412) 363-0400 or \-800-88\-887\
ki«M—iiuvUm
Pharmaceutical Research Services 
5900 Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15206
!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996L3
omen live in fear
CRACKING THE MYTH
By Elizabeth Irvine
One quarter of women in college today 
lave been the victims of rape or attempted 
ipe, and almost 90 percentof them knew 
eir assailants.
One in three dating teenagers are in- 
\olved in abusive relationships.
30 percent of female homicide victims 
I re killed by their boyfriends or husbands. 
These statistics are meant for aware- 
ess. They empower women who have 
urvived assaults and let them know they 
re not alone. They are necessary to cause 
utrage, to illustrate the need for social 
:iange, and to heighten awareness of 
iolence against women. But too often, 
ley have a different effect; they create 
wareness, but also instill fear and inse- 
Urity in women. Somehow the statistics 
ave been turned around on us, and while 
ley are meant to empower, they cause 
*ar.
The fear I am talking about is the kind 
hat makes you nervous to walk home 
ite at night, causes you to be suspicious 
f groups of men or even makes you un- 
omfortable when you are alone with a 
uy you don’t know very well. Sometimes 
:ou find yourself double checking to see if 
iomeone is following you or holding your 
Dreath until you pass a shady guy on the 
oraer. The statistics, the news stories 
md the stalker movies are always in the 
jack of your mind makingyou fearful and 
lot trusting.
The fear I’m talking about is different 
rom the kinds of fear everyone is sub- 
ected to everyday. Obviously men can be 
•aid or feel threatened, but somehow 
¡fear is instilled more deeply in women, 
ot only is there the threat of being at- 
icked or mugged but there’s also the 
;hreat of rape with its dehumanizing and 
ievastating effects. Rape against men by 
ither men is seen as a violent, unnatural, 
.ndrare occurrence. It is seen as a vicious
act, an illegal crime. But rape against 
women is still seen as a sexual act.
This fear is reinforced daily as we see 
images of women as victims on television, 
in newspapers and in movies. The media’s 
ideal of the female body is one that is thin, 
small, and weak. And the opposite, the 
ideal male body, strong, and muscular, 
one that can protect and provide for the 
female. How many movies have we seen 
where the hero fights off several men at 
once while the heroine only stands by, too 
weak and scared to grab the gun on the 
floor or whatever? Especially in Holly­
wood, women ‘need’ men to protect them.
The handling of rape and violence of 
women in movies raises another kind of 
fear. Often sexualized, rape is more often 
than not a punishment for a stupid or 
promiscuous woman and has no conse­
quences for the rapist. The stereotype 
that a woman ‘asked for it’ with her cloth­
ing or stupidity still exists. In fact, the 
way our judicial system is set up, survi­
vors of rape are victimized again with a 
trial process that forces them to defend 
themselves in a courtroom. The legal, 
medical and police steps in a rape case are 
completely degrading, placing the blame 
of the assault with the faults of the victim 
not the criminal. Therefore, the threat of 
rape gives way to another fear, one that 
you will bring this crime onto yourself.
Fear can control women’s lives. With 
fear, women have to monitor their behav­
ior and always be on guard. It feeds a 
dependency on men for protection dating 
back to the Dark Ages. We don’t need 
strong men to protect us, we need to be 
strong ourselves. Letting fear dictate 
where, when, and what we can do is a 
form of enslavement. If fear can dictate 
where we can go at night, it can keep us 
from speaking in a classroom where we 
are the minority, from being angry about 
injustice, or from going to the police if 
someone is harassingus. Fear can infil­
trate women’s confidence, education, 
work, and relationships and keep us sub­
ordinate. Women need to empower them­
selves. We will never gain equality if we 
have to rely on men for security, and if we 
let fear control our lives.
Elizabeth Irvine is a junior BHA 
major in art and english.
Student Life expands focus, 
facilities to non-residents
By ANDREW WANG
Tartan Staffwriter
Non-residential students comprise 
a significant segment of the students 
at CMU. In the 
University’s continuing 
process to try to better 
serve the needs of its stu­
dents, it has established 
a facility for off-campus 
students to ensure that 
Student Life activities 
and programs meet the 
needs of off-campus stu­
dents. In addition, the 
Housing Office has ere- ¦¦¦¦¦¦ 
ated the Community 
Housing Office to serve non-residents 
with housing services as well.
An off-campus student is one that 
does not live in University-owned 
housing,” said Carrie Smith, coordi­
nator of student life for apartments. 
“Students who rent apartments in 
buildings such as Cathedral Man­
sions or Fairfax are considered to be 
residential students, while students 
who rent through the management of 
the Cathedral Mansions Apartments 
are considered non-residential or off- 
campus students — even though the 
apartments are in the same build­
ing.”
Smith said that residential stu­
dents have their phone services, rent, 
and supplies taken care of by hous­
ing, while off campus students usu­
ally have to take care of this them­
selves, blit they can receive advising 
and information through the Com­
munity Housing Office.
The Community Housing Office 
also provides services for non-resi- 
dential students and other members 
of the CMU community in securing 
off-campus housing, finding neigh­
borhood information and maps, as 
well as providing a wide collection of 
comments on different landlords and
“The Division of Student Affairs con­
tinues to expand and grow...”
— Catherine McGraw 
Coordinator of Student Life for 
Community Residents
buildings. Also, it can provide advising for non-residential students as well 
and plentiful information to non-resi- as on-campus residents, 
dential students on leases, landlords, “I will [continue] to coordinate pro­
finding and evaluating off-campus hous- grams and communication links for 
ing, finding inexpensive furniture, and these students according to their
needs. During the next 
few weeks, a electronic 
bulletin board will be 
updated with informa­
tion and announce­
ments for non-residen­
tial students,” said 
McGraw.
“At the Activities 
Fair, we will have a table 
where commuting stu- 
phJrdents can sign in so that 
we can compile a direc- 
lease conflicts. Norma Shaw, the Com- tory for this group,” said McGraw. 
munity Housing Coordinator who McGraw plans to have a reception 
started the office and developed it for at Family Weekend for non-residen- 
over 12 years said the office has grown tial students, 
over the last two years in terms of the
services and support it provides and the For more information, you can reach
number of students it has helped. the Community Life Office by phone 
“The Division of Student Affairs at at x8-4990 or the Student Life Office 
CMU continues to grow and change as it at x8-2142. 
attempts to meet the 
needs of onr stu­
dents,” said
Catherine McGraw, 
coordinator of stu­
dent life for commu­
nity residents.
“In recent 
months, the Resi­
dent Life Office has 
transitionedinto the 
Student Life Of­
fice.... We hope to 
foster the develop­
ment of a campus 
community that of­
fers meaningful ex­
periences, programs 
and leadership op­
portunities.”
McGraw said that 
during Orientation, 
receptions were held
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Oc-Editor
lass of 2000 arrives at CMU
By ERIC SALZMAN
\Tartan Personnel Manager
those applicants, about 6,000 
were accepted by the University. 
The exact number of students 
An awful lot of people showed who then chose to attend CMU 
up on campus on August 20 this will not be determined for an- 
year. Close to 1,400, in fact. They other couple of weeks, but it ap- 
fvvere the newest addition to pears to be hovering around the 
¡Carnegie Mellon: the class of 1,400 mark.
¡2000. Once again, Carnegie Good news for Carnegie Mellon
Mellon admitted its biggest and men is that the male/female ratio 
'statistically brightest class. is changing. At a school where 
The unexpected influx of new seven to three has meant a good 
[students has forced housing to year, this year’s freshmen class 
¡once again employ the services of boasts a male to female ratio just 
;the Hampton 
¡Inn. “The size 
of the class is 
¡obviously not 
what we had 
hoped,” said 
Michael 
Murphy, Dean 
of Student Af­
fairs. “But my 
sense has been 
£hat there’s 
been some ex­
citement as a 
Result of that— 
that first year 
students are 
enthusiastic.”
Murphy said that the large size a bit under two to one. 
of the new class should not be Carnegie Institute of Technol- 
read as an attempt by the Uni- ogy took in the most new stu- 
yersity to expand the student dents with over 400. The college 
body. of Humanities and Social Sciences
To keep the student body at its received about 320 new students 
current sizer, the Office of Under- while both the Mellon College of 
graduate Admissions will have Science and the College of Fine 
¿o turn away more applicants Arts will find close to 200 new 
than it has in the past. Murphy students roaming their halls, 
pointed out that last year, CMU Nearly 110 new students have 
received a 30 percent increase in entered the Industrial Manage- 
applications. Approximately ment college, and over 130 fresh- 
13,300 people applied to become men are now beginning to make 
a part of CMU’s class of2000. Of their way through the School of
Mac Mirchandani/Special 
This year’s freshman class is the the largest class to i 
CMU with 1,400 students.
Computer Science.
Throughout all of the colleges, 
new minority students are mak­
ing their presence known. Sixty 
seems to be the magic number for 
both new African American and 
Hispanic students.
Asian students make up the 
largest minority in the freshmen 
class with over 350 —120 just in 
CIT.
The 109 foreign students in the 
new class represent 32 countries. 
As for the United States, all but 
four states (North Da­
kota, South Dakota, 
Utah, and Wyoming) 
are represented. 
About one-fifth of the 
class is from Pennsyl­
vania.
With the average 
new student having 
ranked in the top 10 
percent of his high 
school class, the 
freshmen’s SAT scores 
are also impressive. 
The average com- 
;ometo bined SAT score for 
new students is 1330.
These new stu­
dents are not just book smart ac­
cording to Kimberly DiDonato, 
coordinator of student life for first 
year programs. “The group seemed 
very socially advanced [during 
Orientation]. I didn’t notice a lot of 
students that didn’t seem to want 
to interact with people,” she said.
The class has quite a bill to live 
up to. This year’s freshmen class is 
also the centennial class for 
Carnegie Mellon.
It is the first class able to enjoy 
the new University Center for a 
full four years.
EARN UP TO $1350 PER SEMESTER 
FOR 3 HOURS / WEEK
Male grad, undergrad and professional students 
of all nationalities needed for nationwide sperm bank.
For information, call 687-0358 To schedule, call 687-0335
Need Extra Money?
Computing Services^__|has part-time openings 
for various Student positions 
Positions Available
Help Center Consultants 
http://www.cmu.edu/acs/acsfront/jobs/help_ctr.html 
Various Cluster Positions 
http://www.cmu.edu/acs/clustweb/cluster-jobs.html 
Financial Services Assistants 
http://www.cmu.edu/acs/acsfront/jobs/std_asst.html 
Network Development Programmer 
http://www.cmu.edu/acs/acsfront/jobs/std_developer.html
Data Communications Assistant 
http://www.cmu.edu/acs/acsfront/jobs/std-assist-data.html
Computer Maintanance Group Assistant
http://www.cmu.edu/acs/acsfront/jobs/std-assist-cmg.html
Benefits
Good Pay
Flexible Hours
Technical toys
CarnegieMellon
Increase your brain size
Skills Needed
• Good written & communications skills
• Familiarity with a computer platform
• Motivated and dependable
http ://www.emu.edu/acs/acsfront/jobs/

---------------------------------------------------

V
CLOSE TO HOME john mcphersonCLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSONCLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON
819Ü
ST WS OAT'S
_ FJYE
FURNITURE
01996 John McPtgragVDgL by Unwtnal Prm Synflaie
“I told you not to pick at it!”
CLOSE TO HOME john mcpherson
“Distressed furniture is very popular these days." 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON
''Cleona, do me a favor and take the 
batteries out of the smoke detector.
I’m going to do some serious drilling here.”
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON
01996 Mt\ UcPhmorvOia. b» Unwui Prtn S»mJat«
DERAIRTIMEINT
OF
IMOTOIR VEHICLES
“Sorry It smells like gasoline. I put it on top of the 
engine so it would stay warm for you."
Njo WAV, Dupe/ kJEw SrtüATiíKlS 
Call nEw Bwod.' a rTtir 
mak): The: M£ki, yaitJ6 òtmtse teens/
‘Our drtvtng examiner is out tick, so you’ll 
be taking your rood test here. You need 
to score 900 points to get your If---------"
“I’ll give you a hundred bucks H you'll watch my 
kids for 20 minutes while I take a nap."
Twisted Peteac ?Cbg v mg r,lSb
%0i
. usmg my -PoAproof you con- Vvxve.
je"i- ¥* fWlHZWQ, you. uxwA- -fer -Hie. pr.ce,
^ of ¿v*sV one. Scw\.
Rriw\ 1+ can <»A\ be your?,
Le^S Kto.r from a.
Cu$Vonvar..
IM
o- ( i1
L
(t\y new Oac(;o 
Okffived. 
ràl "D'onks S4uml
•MX'
¦^pV/E" ItMcre. iloMfoJ .cmu-iijD ci\1» SE COlJnfJUEp/
BEAGOGDAGL BEo
A lthougheb idna
; JOSTl 6DjO?
» GRAPHIC. PES\é,H?
* CAKTDOH ART 7
» Wo étT62+6\es?
; f00UJOT6OgU3?
; 6_|NTOfJNu.)O JnivUolN TfcE URTfcN ART STAFF
yn&Tt uUT. 4)NUTu6O4U) JOU2 Y'í'UüT O6&n. 6O O3. 6kOf|fOn2Jt N64T

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
|SfiMe 'Bt 4ssie BOpe OClnCrt kClre,ge ueffSr drgbelsgnct 2gnnsail,pt 2errscfbCrgCW JehneMael B''8Local hot spots 
highlighted at fair
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Thursday afternoon, Rangos Hall was 
occupied by Pittsburgh’s Zoo, Ballet The- 
p atre, Symphony Orchestra, Opera Com­
pany, and even the Pittsburgh 
Penguins. No, there were no el- 
; ephants waltzing nor any hockey 
players trying to hit a high C.
This diverse collection is just a 
sample of the groups attending 
| this year’s art and entertainment 
fair.
The fair, making its first appearance 
at CMU, was sponsored by the Depart­
ment of Student Activities and orga­
nized primarily by an intern in the de­
partment, senior biology and psychol­
ogy major, Brian Curfman. The fair’s 
main goal according to Curfman was “to 
j show students that Pittsburgh has a lot 
| to offer culturally.” Because it was the 
first year for the event and it took place 
so early in the semester, sponsors wor­
ried that lack 
of publicity 
might have 
been a prob­
lem. But many 
students found 
out either by 
word of mouth 
or through 
posters around campus. Curfman was 
“pleased with the turnout.”
The event was well represented with 
organizations from throughout the city, 
covering the genres of art, theater, mu­
sic, and dance. Representatives spoke 
with interested students and passed out 
pamphlets and schedules along with 
other goodies like tapes, posters, and 
candy.
Several museums and galleries ex­
posed students to the artwork that can 
be found near campus. None could be 
closer than the two galleries on campus, 
Hewlett Gallery located in CFA and 
Forbes Gallery on Forbes Avenue. The
Forbes Gallery is a student run gallery 
that will offer poetry readings and other 
entertainment every Wednesday 
evening, in addition to student exhibits 
on Tuesdays. The Carnegie Museum of
Art, located a few short blocks down 
Forbes Avenue, not only offers student’s 
changing art exhibits but also film se­
ries throughout the year. The series will 
begin with Landmarks of Film in Sep­
tember.
In case your life does not have enough 
drama in it already, opportunities 
abound. Everything from School House 
Rock to Cyrano De Bergerac can found at 
one of the city’s theaters in the coming 
months. Pitts­
burgh Broad­
way Series and 
Gargaro Pro­
ductions both 
have musicals 
scheduled 
throughout the 
year while the 
City Theatre and Pittsburgh Public The­
ater will feature a variety of plays.
A number of groups are beginning 
concert series and some offer student 
subscriptions for their seasons. CMU’s 
music department offers concerts on and 
off campus featuring students.
Nearby on Craig Street, the Renais­
sance and Baroque Society is beginning 
an “unplugged” concert series in Octo­
ber. The Pittsburgh Opera and 
'the Pittsburgh Symphony Or­
chestra will also begin a concert 
series soon.
Plenty of other organizations 
were present offering concerts 
and programs to students at 
CMU.
All encouraged students to 
attend their events and hoped to 
strengthen the relationship be­
tween the University and the city’s cul­
tural venues. The Department of Stu­
dent Activities plans to continue this 
event in the future in order to help 
students discover what Pittsburgh has 
to offer. .
Courtesy of Joseph Mannino
2lesgvern ueplCagCr pCs pgs pCrv soifhnev ac &Ssehp 4|4CrrgrS ySl ngfes nS ae hfCoev Sr npe reI drgbelsgnc kernelD 2Cif 
kplgsngCrSt npe 2lSbSsnt ICnopes npe hfCsnelgr, Ignp ,leCn CMisMernDPresident gets plastered
By ERIC J. SALZMAN
Tartan Personnel Manager
If you can explain in 25 words or less 
why your arm deserves to be immor­
talized, a sculpture of it may end up 
decorating the University Center on 
the same tile as President Mehrabian’s. 
Just send email to 
mannino@andrew.cmu.edu and ex­
plain to the associate professor of art, 
Joseph Mannino, why yOil'wouM like - 
to pose for one of his sculptures.
From the email messages that he 
receives, Professor Mannino will pick 
the lucky arm (preferably a student’s, 
he says) that will be sculpted on the 
same tile as Mehrabian’s. The tiles, 11 
of which are currently along the out­
side wall of the University Center fac­
ing the Cut, will be placed on the wall 
along with nine more arm sculptures, 
in order to complete the project that 
Mannino first proposed almost two 
years ago.
According to Mannino, Martin 
Prekop, dean of the College for Fine 
Arts, has been pushing to get more art 
on campus. A couple years back, he 
asked Mannino to propose a .work of 
art for the University Center.
“As the University Center is to be 
the focus of the University as a com­
munity, it seems singularly appropri­
ate to include human elements on the
building,” Mannino said in his proposal 
which is now enjoying fulfillment. “[The 
tiles’] purpose is to provide humanity 
and warmth to an otherwise imposing 
structure, to send out a quiet announce­
ment that the center is for all to use and 
enjoy,” Mannino said.
The tiles, which are two inches thick, 
ten inches wide, and 32 inches long, may 
consist of any aspect of campus life that 
catches Mannino’s fancy. “I want these 
tiles to represent everyone at the uni­
versity,” he said. In addition to the cast­
ing of Mehrabian’s arm, among the tiles 
are a gardener holding a bouquet of 
thistles and a student holding a basket­
ball that resembles a globe. The tile with 
the student’s arm with the basketball is 
a result of Mannino seeing a student 
bouncing a basketball down the hall of a 
building, finding himself intrigued, and 
then asking the student to pose.
Mannino may pick his models a bit 
randomly, but once he’s picked them, he 
tries to use their own ideas within his 
work. “In the process of casting them, I 
talk to them about what they do at the 
University, what kind of things they 
would see themselves holding in their 
hand or how they would gesture ... so 
there’s a collaboration between me and 
the people that I’m casting for inclusion 
on the tile.”
Although he has been showing his 
students the process of the work he’s
doing on the tiles, Mannino has worked 
solo on the entire project. Each tile 
takes him at least a couple of weeks, 
“but I’ll have several going at the 
same time,” he said. “Even the firing 
takes a week.” The ceramic tiles are 
fired in the kiln for three days on a 
very low temperature and then slowly 
at high temperatures.” Mannino ex­
plained that because the tiles are so 
thick, it is easy to have breakage.
“The project’s been really fun in 
that I’ve gotten to meet and have 
discourse with a variety of different 
types of people on campus that nor­
mally I wouldn’t necessarily meet,” 
Mannino said.
That feeling will be conveyed 
through Mannino’s work for years to 
come. The tiles are not an exhibit on 
the building, they are a permanent 
addition. “The way I really see these 
pieces,” Mannino said, “is that from 
across the Cut, when you look at the 
facade of the building, you just kind of! 
notice that there’s something there on 
the side, but you’re not really sure' 
exactly what it is. But you notice, 
there’s somethingthere. There’s some-' 
thing breaking off the regularity of. 
the facade of that building, something', 
that kind of softens the facade a little. 
bit. And then as you start getting, 
closer to it, you start recognizing that, 
they’re human forms.”
Courtsey of Joseph Mannino 
Opgs ngfet ac &Ssehp 4|4CrrgrSt gs Sy C snivern pSfvgr, C 
aCs•enaCff npCn lehleserns C ISlfvD
Courtesy of Joseph Mannino 
Opgs ngfet ac &Ssehp 4|4CrrgrSt spSIs C sniverns pCrv nchgr,D 
Ope ngfe veoSlCnes npe Sinsgve Sy npe drgbelsgnc kernelD
DH2210 makes a move
By WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
it was. Once it was unveiled, a logical 
and typical development ensued: People 
started complaining about the audito­
rium being reserved four nights a week, 
and in a move reminiscent of Dilbert, 
the powers that be gave AB and SDC six 
nights a semester for each film night. 
The rest of the time, the movies would be 
shown in good ol’ DH2210.
This turn of events consoled many 
misty-eyed souls who foresaw the new 
auditorium 
as “the end 
of an era” of 
movies in 
D o herty 
Hall. And 
as if things 
didn’t 
sound too 
convoluted 
already, 
someone 
noticed that 
some of the 
film nights 
might turn 
out not to be 
reserved at 
all once 
they came; 
So the swell 
people at
nit Kar/ Tartan Business Manager AB and 
SDC decided that if nobody reserved 
McConomy for a given film night (at 
least 2 weeks in advance seems to be the 
deadline), the movie forthat night would 
be shown in McConomy.
Confused yet? Well, hold on. Tradi­
tionally movies in Doherty had four 
showings each; typically 6,8,10 pm and 
Please see DH2210, page L9
Alas, a new year has started at CMU. 
For some, it is the first; others have lost 
count already. But all of them go to AB 
and SDC movies at some point in their 
lives. This year, with the new building 
and all, it is going to be easy to find 
yourself sitting alone Friday at 8 pm in 
DH2210 wondering where everybody is. 
But don’t despair, 
here’s a full guide 
for the uninformed 
and the perenni­
ally clueless.
McNugget?
McConomy?
McCoughnagey?
Yes, we have a 
new building, a 
hub of vibrant stu­
dent life (at least 
until midterms).
Within it, a top-of- 
the-line audito­
rium has been fur­
nished, namely the 
McConomy Audi­
torium (a.k.a. the 
big room with 
LOTS of chairs).
Indeed, this gar­
gantuan hall seats A
450 people, almost twice as many as 
Doherty 2210. It is equipped with really 
nice 16mm, video and slide projectors 
plus who knows what else. According to 
Jill Goodall, the AB chairperson, when 
this hall was designed, it was proclaimed 
that all films would be presented there. 
However, this was some years before 
anyone could notice how pretty and nice

---------------------------------------------------

nv /ar (
L6 The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996
Columnist recomends best bets for game time
sizes strategy. You have control over 
mostly everything, including the pi­
lots and the weapons that the mechs 
have. You even have the option of 
hooking up with a friend and going 
head to head over the network. Pick 
this game up if you can.
_ - _ _ _ Last, but not least, we have TheFRIDAY NIGHT DOOM Pandora Directive. This is the se- 
by DiZZy Murphy t0 Under « Killing Moon, the 
revolutionary interactive movie by 
Access. This time around, the main 
character, detective Tex Murphy, 
must investigate rumors that we 
have aliens in captivity and finds
Hello, game fans and welcome to 
another semester of classes and 
work. I’m back once again to make 
sure you know how to spend some of some exciting results. The game fea- 
your free time playing the 
best video games around.
This time I shall review the 
games that you should have 
gotten over the summer.
To start off, we have AH- 
64D Longbow by Origin. This 
company teamed up with 
Jane’s Simulations to pro­
duce what has got to be the 
best helicopter simulation 
ever made! If you are a heli­
copter sim fan or a flight 
simulator fan at all, this 
game is a must buy. It fea­
tures a beautiful trainer that 
is extremely interactive, a 
good mission generator for 
replayability, and an in- 
depth campaign. Another 
good point is the fact that 
you don’t need to own a Su­
per Pentium to run this 
game. I have a P 75, and it 
runs just fine in full detail 
mode.
In second place we have 
Missionforce: Cyberstorm, a game 
produced by Sierra which involves 
mechs from it’sEarthsiege series. In 
this game, you are the guy behind 
the desk telling the mechs where to 
go and whom to attack. It is a turn- 
-based game which primarily empha-
© 1996 Sierra On-Line Inc. 
Missionforce: Cyberstorm hlSbgves Cr eyyeongbe 
MenpSv Sy hlSolCsngrCngSr ySl snivernsD
tures a good cast and has a lot of 
replayability, featuring multiple 
endings depending on the choices 
you make during the game. For only 
$50 this game is a steal, if you ask 
me.
Next time, I’ll talk about the up­
coming games for fall. Until then, 
study hard and play hard!
Regrettably 
all sections 
are lull this 
semester for
9,I,sC
Thermodynamics
Discounts off Al&T basic rates. Refers to ATST home or ATSJ Calling Card accounts. Subject lo billing availability Certain exclusions apply -Subject to credit approval. 'Valid for 1 yt Must sign up in 1996 and use service at least 1 hc/ma SlSO/Tic for additional hrs. or S1995 for unlimited usage. Customers pay separate telephone charges to reach the service. C1996 ATCT
Comics get rave reviews
COMIC BOOK CHRONICLES
by Jason Andracki
© 1996 DC Comics
Kingdom Come ac uCl• mCgv Crv 6fe7 TSss fgbes ih nS gns ,leCn lehinCngSr D
Compared to previous summers, this 
year’s comic crop was pretty much aver­
age. Only two events really stick out: 
Marvel’s Onslaught crossover and DC’s 
Kingdom Come mini-series. Kingdom 
Come had to be one of the most hyped 
comic events since the “Death of Super­
man.” Fortunately for the readers and 
for DC, Kingdom Come lived up to the 
hype.
Following the success of Marvels way 
back in 1993, DC announced it would be 
giving its characters a similar treat­
ment. First came The Golden Age, which 
rode the coattails of Marvels by retelling 
the origins of DC’s core characters. A 
little later, DC announced it had re­
cruited Marvels painter Alex Ross for 
another fully painted series. Apparently, 
they couldn’t lure Marvels writer Kurt 
Busiak (who’s busy with Astro City and 
Untold Tales ofSpider-Man) but instead 
they got hot writer Mark Waid. Waid 
helped to revitalize the Flash and now 
has written nearly every DC and Marvel 
title.
Take the two most popular names in 
comics today and give them free reign 
over your entire universe and what do 
you get? Four issues well worth the 
$4.95 cover price. Kingdom Come, an­
other of the phenomenal Elseworld’s 
books like Gotham by Gaslight and 
Speeding Bullets, is set far in the future 
with the core DC characters still around 
but with a cabal of new superhumans 
like Magog and Von Bach.
With the glut of super powered fig­
ures, the lines between good and evil 
have become blurred, with innocent hu­
mans caught in the crossfire. This 
premise sets the stage for the classic 
heroes — Superman, Wonder Woman, 
Batman, and others — to make the line 
between good and evil clearer.
While Waid weaves a compelling tale 
Ross is the star of the series. He has an 
amazing command of anatomy (realistic 
anatomy — Wonder Woman’s breasts 
are not larger than her head) and can 
convey emotions so well it seems more 
like watching a movie than reading a 
comic. Ross’s real talent is in the minor 
details that make his work so realistic. 
Take the desk of the United Nations 
Secretary General—most artists would 
put the family picture on the desk, but 
few include enough detail to show that 
he has a wife, two sons, and a daughter.
These are the touches that make. Ross 
an award winning painter.
I admit, I was skeptical at first with 
all the hype surrounding Kingdom 
Come. There are few books that can 
live up to ads quoting Scripture that 
have been running for a year before 
the book’s release, but Kingdom Come 
is one of them. Hopefully, if DC contin­
ues to have Kingdom Come spinoffs as 
Marvel did with Marvels, they will 
keep Waid and Ross and not farm it 
out to amateurs.
Jason Andracki is beginning his fourth 
and final year as a professional writing 
major. He wants this to be the best year 
possible so if you have any comments on 
his column please contact him.

---------------------------------------------------

sell it. cut it. wax' 
draw it. look for n 
it. shoot it.| SB 
design it. proof it.
read it. paste 
dit it. cover it,
cut it. waX it 
' 3raw it. look!
lav
look for it.
t, design it, proof it,- 
write all over
it. paste it. crop it. 
dît it. cover It. lay 
t it, wax:: it. read ' 
aw it. look for it. . 
T öo.t it. sell'; 
design it, proof it A 
lay it out. write all: 
read it. paste it, .erop 
sell it. cut it. wax it.
“eadit p'ast
cut it.
Hover it.
§ ¦f' s*I îq c
I st. paste it. 
edit it, cover it.
wax it.
e. a 11 over it. shoot it. 
crop it.' 3:' it* proof it. draw it, look for 
lay it out. an over it/ snoot it,
/ax it. read it. paste It. crop it, 'design it. 
t, look for it. edit it, cover itY. lay it out. 
. shoot it. sell it. /a.X it., read it paste
;iq'n it. proof it, dravv'it., look for it. write all
Come see us at THE TARTAN Thursday, September 5 at the Activities Fair, 
and next week at our recruitment meeting.
Surviving in college is tough enough, right? That’s 
why we’ve designed a package to make tilings 
easier Choose AW and look at all you can get:
AEKI True Reach;B Savings
Save 25% on every kind of U.S. call 
on your AT&T phone bill when you 
spend just $25 a month.1
Luckily you can still 
sign up for all this 
great stuff from AT&T.
AT&T True Rewards *
Get savings at Sam Goody/Musicland, 
TCBY “Treats” and BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO 
with the Member Benefit Card.
AT&T Universal MasterCard®
A credit, cash and calling card that 
brings you discounts on USAir. And 
no annual fee-ever.2
AT&T World Net" Service
Get 5 free hours of Internet access 
every month just for having AT&T 
long distance.3
To sign up, look for us on campus or call
1800 654 0471
AT&T
Your True Choice
http://www.att.com/college

---------------------------------------------------

Jee oCMhis 
oSMhinel snSle 
ySl venCgfsD
Buy an IBM PC 340 or 
350 desktop computer 
and an IBM Multimedia 
Kit. And you’ll get a CD 
software package that includes Windows 95, 
Lotus SmartSuite, Netscape Navigator, World 
Book Multimedia Encyclopedia and the infopedia 
collection of essential reference software.
Buy a ThinkPad and you’ll get Windows 95 and 
Lotus SmartSuite. You can also take advantage 
of special student, faculty and staff financing. 
Just call 1 -800-4IBM-LOAIM for information. 
Hurry, visit your campus computer store today.
After all, no one looks ___ _
good in a checkered — =—=' 
apron. —
A World of Opportunity
THESE CMU STUDENTS ARE SPENDING A SEMESTER OR MORE ABROAD...,
)6u.u6&UTL.6T0Uk6O4U)
uCloef 6fe7CrvlSbgop4u&TkSherpC,ert ?erMCl•
jCnplcr 6fferJhCrgspJUuCvlgvt JhCgr
?gCrC YClnSfSnnC2scopSfS,c&T2Clgst NlCroe
?Crgef Ylioe4u&TJcvrect 6isnlCfgC
uCl,Clen kS76lnJTOpe )enpelfCrvs
Ji(Crre klCg,.r,fgsp&T6bg,rSrt NlCroe
JCrvlC kifhYgSfS,cJTkCglrst 6isnlCfgC
2Cr•C5 ?CbessCl.oSrSMgos&TkSherpC,ert ?erMCl•
TcCr ?Si,fCss6lnJT6i•fCrvt )eI *eCfCrv
6faeln1Ufgbgel ?lSiCln4?J&TOS•cSt &ChCr
0gC .snlCvC6lopgneonilCf JnivgesJT6g71er12lSberoet NlCroe
?Cbgv .isngoeuJ.JT0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
&eleMc NfenopeluisgoJT6g71er12lSberoet NlCroe
kCMelSr Nleleskgb.JTOS•cSt &ChCr
JpCrrSr Rgarec.r,fgspJTkSopCaCMaCt YSfgbgC
&isngr Rleere6lnJT3Sr, jSr,
kpgC1ugr, 3i4?J&TOS•cSt &ChCr
)CnCopC 3inopgrsSr4uJTuSrnellect ue7goS
jesnC &CMeskpeMgsnlcJTuSrnellect ue7goS
3eCnpel jgM6lopgneonileJT0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
JisCr jfegr2scopSfS,cJTJCr &Sset kSsnC TgoC
&SrCnpCr jfgre6lopgneonileJT0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
Nlev jSepfel?lCMCJT0SrvSrt .r,fCrv
&Scoe 0ee6lopgneonileJTJgr,ChSle
?gffSr 0gr6lopgneonileJT0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
uefgssC 0SnnkpeM.&T6Copert RelMCrc
ugrvc uCl•s.oSrSMgos&TQignSt .oiCvSl
6ivlc uo6yee.oSrSMgosJTuSrnellect ue7goS
kpCv uouCpgffkpeM.&T6Copert RelMCrc
2Cif ugffel6lopgneonileJTuSrnellect ue7goS
&errgyel uSllgs6lnJT3efsgr•gt NgrfCrv
kSfgr Usailr4u&T0gMelgo•t 4lefCrv
uClngr 2Cr,lCoe.r,fgspJTOS•cSt &ChCr
OelesC 2erC2scopSfS,cJTJCfCMCroCt JhCgr
jCnplcr 2gnnMCr.k.&T0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
jlgsner TCnpairYgSfS,cJT6n JeC
.lgr JCf(el6lnJTOpe )enpelfCrvs
?Cr JfSoiMkpeM.&T6Copert RelMCrc
&eyylec JMgnpkpeMgsnlcJUYlg,pnSrt .r,fCrv
kplgsnShpel JheClsRelMCr/YgSfS,c&TTe,ersael,t RelMCrc
kSilnrec Jheroe4uJTuC(CnfCrt ue7goS
0eSr Jngef6ln&TOpe )enpelfCrvs
TSaeln OCcfSl.k.&T0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
6ySfCag mgffgCMs.k.&T0CisCrret JIgn(elfCrv
klC, mSfyekJ&TmSlfvIgve
6)? O3.J. 6T. JUu. UN O3. JOd?.)OJ m3U mUTj.? 6)? JOd?4.? 6YTU6? 4) O3. Jduu.TDDDD
Jason Andracki, Daniel Chang, Christine Chiang, Jason Carranza, Brett Elliott, Zeynep Ebicoglu, Robert Ferry, George 
Helbling, Katy Hsu, Natacha Hutchinson, Jeremiah Jacobson, Kesta James, Jim Kong, Matthew Kraai, Tiffany Link, Bella Lo, 
Brian Long, Paul Miller, Roshini Nibbs, Nicole Shechtman, Jota Shohtoku, Christopher Spears, Nina Sweeney, Tazul 
Tajuddin, Kenji Terakura, Shirley Ting, Karla Turcios, Michelle Vollmar, Matthew White, Joseph Won
SO CAN YOU!! Start planning for your semester or year abroad. Call for an appointment with the 
Study Abroad Advisor, Eva Mergner, X8-4969. The Office of International Education is now located on 
the 3rd Floor of Warner Hall. For additional information, check our bboard academic.abroad.official for 
up-to-date news on programs and deadlines and our new web page: http://www.cmu.edu/intl-ed/.
Welcome Back!
As the world leader in advanced internetworking 
solutions, Cisco Systems offers a world of challenging 
opportunities for young professionals to help us 
develop hardware, software and customized internet­
working products.
We believe in staying one step ahead of our competition 
by continually pushing industry standards and looking for 
new methods of innovation. Our young professionals— 
you and your contemporaries—are a vital part of this 
effort. And in turn, we offer you the ideal environment to 
perfect your abilities, refine your skills and promote your 
strengths. Today’s technological world is expanding. 
So are the opportunities at Cisco.
If you have a strong interest in the internetworking 
industry and will be graduating this year with a BA/BS in 
a related discipline, Cisco offers an environment that pro­
motes diversity and opportunity for all of its employees.
To apply, please send your resume to: Cisco Systems, Inc., 
Human Resources, PO. Box 640730, San Jose, CA 95164- 
0730, FAX (800) 818-9201 (please use white paper with 
12 point plain black font), or E-mail: college@cisco.com 
(ASCII only). EOE
See us on campus 
September 20
Cisco JcsneMs
The Network Works. 
No Excuses.“'
For detailed job descriptions 
of over 1,000 positions, 
visit us on the Web at:
http://www.cisco.com/jobs
IBM and ThinkPad are registered trademarks ol International Business Machines Corporation Windows is a registered trademark ol Microsoft Corporation. 
Other company, product or service names may be trademarks ofservice marks ol others. ©1996 IBM Corp. All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

y«a z.
©1994 New Line Production 
mpSShg RSfvael, leogebes leoS,rgngSr Cn npe .MMc!s ySl pSsngr, npgs 
ceCls UsoCl!sD
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996
Critic picks Emmy winners
By DAN ROSENBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
though the winners in these cat- ing and directing (for the “Soup 
egories will be Stanley Tucci and Nazi” episode), as well as for guest 
CMU graduate Barbara Bosson, actor Larry Thomas who played 
stars of Bochco’s other series, the title role in the episode. 
Like last year’s ceremony, this Murder One)] and direction and Frasier, meanwhile, will win for 
year’s Emmy Awards are coming writing (where ER is heavily David Hyde Pierce’s brilliant por- 
down to a battle between TV’s favored for its “Hell and High trayalofDr. Niles Crane, and for 
most popular doctors and its top Water” episode in which Dr. Ross Shelley Long’s guest appearance
as her Cheers' 
character, Diane 
Chambers. Other 
victories will be­
long to: John
Lithgow (Third 
Rock from the Sun) 
as Best Actor; 
Helen Hunt (Mad 
About You) as Best 
Actress (although 
Cybill Shepherd 
could pull an up­
set); and Christine 
Baranski (Cybill) 
as Best Support­
ing Actress.
Film stars will 
dominate the 
made-for-televi- 
sion movie catego­
ries, with Gary 
Sinise (Forrest 
Gump) winning a 
well-deserved 
Best Actor trophy 
for his portrayal of 
Harry S. Truman; 
Jessica Lange tak­
ing the Best Ac­
tress trophy for A 
Streetcar Named 
Desire (although 
Prime Suspect’s Helen Mirren, a 
dark horse candidate, should take 
the prize); Ian McKellan (Rich­
ard III) as Best Supporting Actor
Photo Courtesy of ABC-TV
kcagf JpehClv snCls gr C reI hlgMe1 ngMe oSMevc Cybil. Jpe gs ih C,Cgrsn 3efer 3irn 
(Mad About You) ySl Cr .MMc gr npe Yesn 6onless oCne,SlcD
cops. No matter who the final 
victor will be, one thing is almost 
certain— CMU alumni will come 
out on top.
Just as the Oscars wrap up 
each year’s telecast with the Best 
Picture winner, the Emmys’ final 
award is for Best Drama Series.
; r For the past three years, the vic- 
i: tor in the category was a surprise 
* but, in retrospect, the best choice. 
This year the top prize comes 
down to two programs, both of 
which feature executive produc-' 
ers who graduated from OMU. 
John Wells’s ER is the favored of 
the two, having lost last year in a 
major upset and possessing more 
nominations than any other 
Emmy contender. Steven 
Bochco’s NYPD Blue should not 
be counted out, however. While 
both shows had their best sea­
sons this year/Blue should win, 
as it is clearly the better of the 
two shows. However, ER is also 
a high-quality program (not to 
mention that it’s one of the most 
popular shows in the nation), and 
it will probably take the top prize.
The programs are also compet­
ing against each other in numer-
saved a boy from drowning in a 
flooded storm drain).
In other drama categories, ex­
pect a win for Chicago Hope’s 
Christine Lahti (although Angela 
Lansbury could earn an overdue 
trophy for Murder, She Wrote), 
Fallen Angels’ Danny Glover, and 
Homicide’s Lily Tomlin.
Before television drama made 
a comeback, the comedy catego­
ries were the most competitive 
areas. Not so this year. Frasier 
and Seinfeld, both of which have 
seen better years, are the only 
two contenders for best series. 
The Larry Sanders Show deserves 
a victory, but a cable program 
has never won a best series award 
and this year won’t be any differ­
ent. Friends and Mad About You 
are nominated simply because 
there is room in the category for 
five nominees. Frasier is still 
television’s smartest sitcom, and 
should win the award, but be­
cause it won for the past two 
years, I think Seinfeld will pre­
vail. Jerry Seinfeld’s sitcom about 
“nothing” has had its best season 
in three years and has only won 
once before (in 1993), so it seems
for Rasputin; and, in one of the 
biggest landslides of the night, 
Kathy Bates (Misery ) as Best Sup­
porting Actress for The Late Shift.
Although movie stars will win 
the acting prizes, a film about 
television will win the Best TV 
Movie award, as well as the award 
for best writing. The Late Shift, 
based on Bill Clark’s novel about 
the Letterman-Leno battle to suc­
ceed Johnny Carson as host of 
The Tonight Show, created the 
most buzz in Hollywood, and the 
Emmy’s like to honor movies that 
stir up a little controversy, like 
last year’s Indictment: The 
McMartin Trial and 1993’s And 
the Band Played On.
Gulliver’s Travels, the lavish 
production starring CMU alum­
nus Ted Danson, _ 
will win Best Mini­
series, Best Direc­
tion, and numerous 
technical awards 
(including art direc­
tion, costumes, and 
visual effects).
In the variety 
categories, expect 
wins for Muppets 
Tonight! as Best 
Series; Sinatra: 80 
Years My Way as 
Best Special;
Whoopi Goldberg 
for her hosting du­
ties at this year’s 
Oscars; The 
Kennedy Center 
Honors for direc­
tion; and Tracey 
Takes On ... for 
writing.
1994 Paramount PicturesRClc Jgrgset Ieff •rSIr ySl pgs ISl• gr Forest Gump, gs gr oSrnerngSr ySl Cr .MMc 
ySl pgs hSlnlCcCf Sy 3Cllc JD OliMCrD
ous other categories, including fairly likely that the top comedy 
best actor (where Blue’s Dennis prize will go to television’s most 
Franz will surely win); best sup- popular sitcom, 
porting actor and actress (al- Seinfeld will also win for writ-
photo © 1989 Tri-Star pictures 
&essgoC 0Cr,e snClev gr C Streetcar Named Desire. Jpe gs ih ySl Cr 
.MMc Cs Yesn 6onless C,Cgrsn 3efer ugller ylSM Prime Suspect.
Now with
http^v/ww. macromedia.com
© 1996 Macromedia, Inc. All righti reiervsd, laBooj optional.
Get 50% off Director®5 or FreeHand" Graphics Studid"2

---------------------------------------------------

LBwThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996
Movies move to McConomy
"... when this hall was designed, it 
was proclaimed that all films would be 
presented there. However; this was 
some years ago before anyone could 
notice how pretty and nice it was. ”
DH2210, from page L5
midnight. However, this 
might change. It is now policy 
that events in the new Uni­
versity Center must end by 1 
am for security reasons. Thus, 
the swell movie people were 
forced to reduce their num­
ber of showings. As of now, a 
typical movie in McConomy 
would show at 7 pm and 11 
pm. Theoretically, this poses 
no real problem since they 
aje able to sit more people in 
the Audito­
rium. Butif 
you are 
kinda slow 
adjusting 
to time 
schedules 
(or if you’re 
not fully so­
ber), you 
mjght end
up, being -------------------------
1-fttje or
early to a movie (depending 
in-how much alcohol you’ve 
had that night). An alterna­
tive put forth by Sunday film 
cliair David Bazelon is to do 
three showings a night re­
gardless of which hall. We’ll 
have to wait and see (just wait 
till Hunchback comes.)
The “Premiere”
Generally, people seem to 
be happy about movies on 
campus this semester. The 
literate and campy British 
movie “Angels and Insects” 
marked the official start of 
the campus film season last 
Thursday. It had a really 
nfce turnout (Thursday 
films tend to be a bit ig­
nored by the general public, 
irfore given to watch Demi 
Moore's breasts than, say, 
“Citizen Kane”). The CFA 
drama mascots/uberfans. 
were there too, so nothing 
really was missing. As I 
asked around, nobody 
seemed to be particularly 
bothered about the nomadic 
nature that films on cam­
pus might exhibit. Every­
body seems to understand 
that this is “very much a 
trial run” in the words of 
tHe AB chair; so if we don’t 
throw hissy fits everything 
will be just fine. You can be 
sure that polls and sugges­
tions will be taken at the 
eild of the semester so speak 
your mind Just don’t scream 
itor spray it on the walls.
Another piece of policy 
that has met with mixed 
reaction is that no food or 
beverages are allowed in­
side McConomy. This makes 
se^nse once you see what 
Dtl2210 looks like on Sat­
urday night. Particularly 
the weekly invasion of in­
toxicated persons will hope­
fully be much rarer (luckily 
Striptease is going to show 
at Doherty, much to the re­
lief of SDC and the mainte­
nance people).
I know where and 
when, I just don’t know 
what...
The folks at AB and SDC 
truly deserve our praise
(and assorted riches) for put­
ting together a great movie sea­
son. For Thursdays, we have 
great movies old and new in­
cluding Gone with the Wind and 
Prospero’s Books, not to mention 
Taxi Driver, Vertigo, and Dr. 
Strangelove. Also, at the end of 
the semester we’ll have a Silent 
Film Festival.
In addition to the requisite 
blockbusters, Friday nights will 
be offering some good films like 
Fargo and James and the Giant
Paris _Frankfurt Madrid CairoGuatemala San Francisco SeattleFmB m UCH 4» ROM hlTHUOi USD 04 A ON» UD¥SL (MB DO KX Klltt ROD* WB CH ffCS c*u»c S3 mo $45, arooc on cb*«km ch CBMOUC OiatCB WO OKTT D R3B3« COkOMieAS.
Call for a FREE 
Student Tratti» Magazine!
Mffllffn Travel - 
118Meyran Ave. 
PilTSBURGH, PA 15213
(412) 683-1881httpdfi
~ ?HL
Peach. On a special note, both 
chairs have assembled a Jeunet 
et Caro double feature: Delica­
tessen on Thursday October 3 
and City of Lost Children the 
following night. Don’t miss 
these.
SDC has also twisted their 
usual Saturday offerings a bit 
by offering some ’80s classics, 
like Heathers and Top Gun. 
Don’t worry, Disney’s latest 
atrocity and Striptease will also 
show. And on-another special 
note, Bob Roberts will play on 
November 2, to fit with election 
time. This is a remarkable, of­
ten prophetic film that is es­
sential viewing if you want to 
understand how this country 
works.
Last, but certainly not least, 
we have the both infamous 
and acclaimed Sunday series. 
Some of the highlights for this 
semester are the British clas­
sic Peeping Tom, the Ameri­
can classics Battlestar 
Galactica and Shaft in Africa 
plus the recent Italian horror 
tale Cemetery Man. And did I 
mention that 
Time Bandits 
is playing at 
the end of the 
term?
Mr. Bazelon 
means busi­
ness this year, 
and to show it, 
he organized 
an All-Day 
—————— Horror Fest
for September 
1st which included not one 
but two Hellraiser movies, the 
quintessential Russ Meyer 
Faster Pussycat, Kill, Kill, and 
lots of other neat stuff.
To coincide with this year’s 
International Festival, the 
swell movie guys put together 
a series of hispanic-themed 
movies: the ever-popular Li,ke 
Water For Chocolate, the un­
derrated saga Mi Familia,the 
classic Stand and Deliver and 
I Walked with a Zombie.
As you can see, it is going to 
be an ecstatic semester of cam­
pus movies. Enjoy!
Danson’s premiere gets put on hold
LOS ANGELES, August 
23(AP) -— Producers have be­
gun an overhaul of Ink, a sitcom 
starring Ted Danson 
and wife Mary 
Steenburgen, that 
will push back its pre­
mier on CBS to late 
October.
Four episodes will 
be scrapped, a new 
executive producer 
will take over and the 
show will debut Oct.
21 instead of Sept. 16 
so new episodes can be 
filmed.
“After we had done 
these four episodes, 
everybody collectively 
looked at the show and 
said it’s good, not 
great, and we didn’t 
want to settle on good,”
Dan McDermott, head 
of DreamWorks SKG 
Television, the show’s
ordered 22 episodes to nab 
Danson after a bidding war with 
NBC. Typically, networks order
production company, said Friday.
Until Ink premieres, CBS will 
use its 8:30 pm Monday slot for 
Pearl, starring another ex-Cheers 
cast member, Rhea Perlman, as a 
blue-collar widow who goes to an 
Ivy League university.
“It was a tough decision,” CBS 
Entertainment President Leslie 
Moonves said.But the show is 
“an important, long-term com­
mitment for the network. There­
fore, it is better to do it right 
than do it fast.”
CBS has a big stake in the out­
come of the series. The network
© Touchstone Pictures
kud 6fiMrg snCls gr C reI kSMevct Ink. Ope spSI!s 
hleMgel ICs hispev nS fCne UonSaelD
13 episodes or less on a new prime­
time program.
And tossing away four episodes 
is quite costly, somewhere around 
$4 million, which will be split 
between CBS and DreamWorks, 
according to published reports.
Ink will start anew with Emmy- 
winning Diane English (creator 
of Murphy Brown) as executive 
producer, replacing the show’s 
creator Jeffrey Lane.
Danson and Steenburgen stay 
on board as a divorced couple 
working at a newspaper where 
he’s the reporter and she’s the
boss. That premise remains basi­
cally the same, although in the 
revamped show the couple will 
have been divorced 
for 10 or 15 years 
instead of just re­
cently, McDermott 
said.
That, he said, will 
allow the show to 
focus not so much 
on the “open 
wounds,” of their 
relationship, but on 
the ensemble cast, 
which may see 
some changes as 
well.
Danson and 
Steenburgen, who 
also produce the 
series, said in a 
statement they 
were pleased to 
get a chance to 
start oyer “rather 
than put on a show 
that we are all less than thrilled 
with.”
Ink's pilot episode was poorly 
received and the stars them­
selves acknowledged doubts 
about that first show with TV 
critics in July, though they said 
they felt it would improve.
The planned fourth install­
ment indeed showed immense 
improvement from the pilot, but 
apparently not enough.
When Ink is ready to air, 
Pearl will then return to its ini­
tial Wednesday night time slot, 
CBS said.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 3 September 1996Lll
DH 2210O"4 Mg 4 4 ; y g e r
movies you may have seen before...,
Yc &Spr Yg,,s
Thursday, September 5
Gone With the Wind
Well, we’re all very excited here at the lab about 
the latest developments in the kinetiscope. We will 
be calling an improved version of our little gem the 
“motion picture projector” and the celluloid film 
will be called a “motion picture.” This, one of the 
latest “films” is a “talkie” and in “full-colour!” Very 
exciting, indeed.
“Starring” Clark Gable, Viven Leigh, and Leslie 
Howard, this is a wonderful cast of actors and 
actresses. Set in the “South,” this “movie” focuses 
on the gentle Sherman and his march to the “sea.” 
We invite you to “sea” it with the Southern “belle” 
of your choice, preferably one who doesn’t show too 
much scandalous ankle.
at 7:30 pm
McConomy Auditorium
Friday, September 6
James & The Giant Peach
Roald Dahl never smoked too much pot. That’s 
why his stories still have humans in them.
Anyway, this is about a kid named James and his 
wonderful insectile friends who go on a journey of 
discovery inside a giant peach. I mean, if thinking 
up that pickle of a plot doesn’t certify you as a dope 
fiend, I’m not quite sure what does.
Anyway, this movie stars a bunch of puppets that 
are meticulously rendered using stop-motion ani­
mation. As wonderfully silly as Nightmare Before 
Christmas and Malcom X, this is one for the family 
of man.
Keep the trolls away.
at 7, 9, and 11 pm
McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, September 7
The Birdcage
Robin “Sparky” Williams and Nathan “Sparky” 
Lane star in this movie version of Le Cage auxFolle, 
a French movie full of love and rockets. Anyway, 
this one is about Williams and Lane, who are two 
ho-mo-sex-u-als. But William’s son wants to marry 
a Senator’s daughter, and that old cranky Senator 
just won’t have his girl marry the son of a ho-mo- 
sex-u-al. Therefore, the two must change the old 
Senator’s mind. Whoomp, there it is.
This is a clever and quick film that did fairly well 
in the free-market. I intended to see it, but I didn’t 
get the chance.
Keep the trolls away.
TBA
McConomy Auditorium
Sunday, September 8
Blazing Saddles
This is a fart movie. It’s directed by Mel Brooks, 
who directed other movies like that one with the 
aliens and the one with the monster. Starring the 
old stand-bys (Harvey Korman, Gene Wilder, and 
Dom DeLuise) and featuring jokes about beans and 
farts, this old West farce is full of mirth and hilari­
ous hi-jinks. Ha ha.
There are Indians. There are cowboys. There are 
guns. There are monkeys (no monkeys, really). 
There’s commmmmehhhhhhhdeeeee!
at 7:30 and 10 pm
McConomy Auditorium
Reggae, rock band not limited by labels
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
“The bottom line is I love good 
music and I try to shy away from 
all these labels that people think 
are so necessary to slap on music. 
It seems like people get afraid of 
a certain music if they can’t pi­
geonhole it to their satisfaction. 
They will be up all night trying to 
slap a label on Sublime. Good 
music is good music, and that 
should be enough for anybody,” 
said Bradley Nowell, lead singer 
and guitarist of Sublime.
mpSH JiafgMe 
mpCnH Sublime 
0CaefH RCsSfgre 6ffec/ 
uk6 TeoSlvs
Anyone familiar with their pre­
vious three releases, Living in a 
Boring Nation, 40 Oz. To Free­
dom and Robbing the Hood, may 
find this album to be a slight 
departure from their unique 
brand of reggae and rock. The 
dance-hall style reggae sound has
become more integrated into 
punk/funk/rap/grunge/etc. They 
have more musical styles than 
there are labels for. The one
thing that most ev- __________
ery song has is a 
sense of celebration 
which comes
through in their up­
beat and, dare I say 
it, groovy music.
Many of the songs 
on this album have a 
heavy reggae feel to 
them, like “Pawn 
Shop,” though
“Pawn Shop” is one 
of the slower songs.
Faster songs like “Same in the 
End” also have a reggae slant to 
them; but they often explode into 
full blown punk. Songs like “Gar­
den Grove” and what will prob­
ably become their radio song, 
“What I Got” (which at times 
sounds like ‘Lady Madonna’ by 
the Beatles) refuse to accept any 
labels. And then, just when you 
think you know what they sound 
like, a song like the Alice in
Chains-esque “Under my Voodoo” 
comes along and shows yet an­
other side of this band.
Their songs don’t just focus on
“The dance-hall style reggae 
sound has become more inte­
grated into punk/ funk/ rap/ 
grunge/ etc. They have more 
musical styles than there are 
labels for. ”
one topic either. They cover love 
and hate, peace and violence, good 
times and bad. There is almost 
always a touch of happiness and 
living for the moment in every 
song. There will come at least 
one moment for everyone who 
listens to this album when a line 
or entire song will make you smile 
like a darned fool.
But what really makes this al­
bum a masterwork of modern
music is the amazing musical 
ability of the entire band, espe­
cially of Bradley Nowell, guitar­
ist and lead singer extrodinaire. ”
__________ Not only does he
play everything fromv 
off-beat reggae 
rhythms to funk and- 
metal solos, but he 
also sings beautiful 
additions to the mu­
sic he plays. He is 
also the driving force 
behind most of the 
songs on this albums 
This makes it sad- 
der to hear that Bra­
dley Nowell died of a 
heroin overdose a few months 
before this album was released, 
leaving behind his wife Troy and
11 month old son Jakob.
With this album, Sublime’s mu­
sic has coalesced into brilliance, 
and with the promotional back­
ing of a big record company, they 
could get success as well. Bradley 
.Nowell’s final gift to the world i§ 
n&{; to be missed by any fan of 
great music.
Compilation sounds dreamy
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
You’re probably reading this 
thinking that you missed the lat­
est scientific breakthrough. Fear 
not, faithful readers, you have 
overlooked nothing.
pSH |ClgSis 6lngsns 
pCnH The Ultimate 
Dream Collection 
g0CaefH 2fCnchis TeoSlvs
No, science has not yet given 
us the power to record our fanta­
sies, or at least not yet. The Ulti­
mate Dream Collection is instead 
quite possibly the first explicit 
compilation of “dream” available, 
or so Platypus would have us 
believe. Dream is trance, a smooth 
breed of techno, intended for a 
major audience. Trance is in­
tended to send the listener into 
another world through hypnotic 
beats under a patchwork of flow­
ing rhythm.
The first track, “Children” by 
Robert Miles, is seemingly noth­
ing extraordinary, though 
vaguely reminiscent of a slew of 
dance tunes. It opens with a re­
peating three-note keyboard se­
quence that gradually builds into 
alargerpiece,foldinginto astrpng 
beat that would move almost any 
dance floor. From this song alone, 
it appears obvious why “dream”
has been labeled trance for the comes noticeable and as the song 
masses. The beat is stronger and goes on and more and more sound 
the song structure is simplified, comes in, it becomes unclear 
However, I was pleasantly sur- whether an explosion is imminent, 
prised with the rest of the album. The rest of the tracks are all 
Starting with 
the second track, 
things get more 
complex. The 
same bass drum 
kick is present 
(as it is in 75 per­
cent of the music 
on this two CD 
set), but is over­
laid with arpeg­
gio bass rhythms 
and smooth syn­
thesized strings.
The Art of 
Trance’s “Octo­
pus” mixes a 
hellishly fast 
keyboard 
melody with the 
beat and throws 
additional tex­
ture on top that 
changes from 
flanged tones 
that rise and fall 
to a hollow 
sounding acidy 
texture to every­
thing in between. Salamander’s 
“Tempest” takes its opening that 
sounds like swirling wind and 
channels it into a mid-speed beat 
interwoven with one at slightly 
higher speed. A sucking sound be-
The Ultimate Dream Collection gs C oSMhgfgnCngSr Sy bClgSis ClngsnsD
similar, sharingthe same compos­
ing instruments, the same drum 
kicks and bass textures, and a lack 
of vocals. In fact, the only voices on 
this album are those found in the 
small samples which are repeated
throughout sections of songs, used" 
for another layer of sound. If used 
effectively, this can increase the 
memorability of a song, but if tKer 
technique is misused, as it is in' 
The Art ofTrance’s 
“Orange,” it only 
creates annoying 
repetition. In con-.' 
trast with their1 " 
other tracks on the'1 
compilation, “Oi*-J 
ange” is annoying" 
with its overuse'd1' 
totally incompré­
hensible sampling? 
and overly repeti­
tive structure.
As a whole, Thev- 
Ultimate Dream" 
Collection is a safè1" 
bet for all thosë’ 
tired of the ravè- 
ish overplayed' 
dance tunes. Thé'1 
songs are similar ' 
to one another^ 
but their various ' 
textures make*' 
them different-^ 
enough to makè1; 
things intereét^' 
ing. A little more!J 
artist varie£y.J 
might have improved things on'1 
this count (10 artists on 21 tracks), 
but it is only one label’s acts. 
Nevertheless, these CDs are sure 
to get you moving while keeping 
you thinking.
Alien sighting at Graffiti nightclub
By ANDREW McDERMOTT
Tartan Manging Editor
Aliens are landing in Pitts­
burgh, and if you don’t go see 
them, you may die.
Man ... Or Astroman? has
in the future are so drastically
creative and different that an
Earthling would die if he heard
them.itExperiment Zero, the latest re­
lease by Man ... Or Astroman? 
includes some ofthe “Next Phase”
Courtesy of Man ... orAstro-man? 
Opese Mer MCc fSS• piMCrt ain npec!le leCffc CfgersD )Sn oSrbgroev? 
&isn fgsner nS npegl MisgoD
been playing its version of hy­
peractive surf rock all over the 
planet ever since the crash 
landed near Auburn, Alabama 
in 1992. The group claims the 
records it has already released
harmonics it says Earth must 
become accustomed to. “We gotta 
see how well you all respond to it. 
(Experiment Zero) might be too 
big of a step, this is very tricky 
stuff we’re dealing with,” said
Coco the Electronic Monkey Wiz­
ard, the bassist of Man ... Or 
Astroman?
But Man ... Or Astroman? will 
not be around forever, though it 
will attempt to ward off the im­
pending doom ofthe human race. 
Currently, they wanderthe Earth 
searching for the missing parts of 
their spaceship, disguising their 
travels as “tours” and their brain­
washing sites as “concerts.”
Man ... Or Astroman? demon­
strates many of its peculiar alien 
devices on stage, although they 
appear to be ordinary objects such 
as televisions, projectors, oscillo­
scopes, and a tesla coil, one of 
their most recent acquisitions. 
“We now have a lethal compo­
nent on stage,” said Coco. “We 
are going to hopefully bring a 
tesla coil. If everything goes well, 
we will be generating lightning, 
and it is lethal. I think we have 
all of the kinks out of it, although 
it did blow a hole in the labora­
tory wall.”
Man ...Or Astroman? continu­
ally adds strange devices to its 
stage show in an effort to retrieve 
the remaining parts of their 
spaceship. They hope to have the 
ship together soon. “We are be­
hind schedule, but we are finding 
pieces,” said Coco. “We planned 
to be out of here around ’94 - ’95, 
it’s pretty disappointing to be so
behind, but we are making 
progress.”
The band recently moved to 
Atlanta in their never-ending., 
quest to return home. “We,., 
needed to position a research 
facility were it wouldn’t attract 
much attention,” said Coco. “At­
lanta has more stuffgoing on to 
distract people, not like Auburn. 
Also with the Olympics coming 
we were able to brainwash the 
world’s population at a central 
location. It’s all very conve­
nient.”
Coco is looking forward to the 
show, but he recently discov­
ered that the show is not for all 
ages. Age restrictions have been 
a problem for Man...Or" 
Astroman? because many of ‘ 
their fans are below legal drink­
ing age.
“We are currently trying to 
change the age limit at the Graf­
fiti show, we already have re­
ceived a lot of complaints. It’s 
hard, they get a large amount of 
money from alcohol and it in­
creases their liability when they 
have an all age show,” said Coco. 
“We have always had a problem 
with that, we’re not Fugazi, if we 
called up and said‘it has to be all 
ages or we won’t play’ they’ll say 
Well then, you won’t play\ Some­
day we can completely dictate 
that stuff.”

---------------------------------------------------

Gone With the Wind will play this Thursday in 
the McConomy auditorium at 7:30 pm.
James and the Giant Peach will play this Fri­
day in the McConomy auditorium at 7, 9, and 11 
pm.
The Birdcage will play this Saturday in the 
McConomy auditorium at 7 arid 10 pm.
Blazing Saddles will play this Sunday in the 
McConomy auditorium at 7:30 and 10 pm.
The Football Team will play away at Franklin & 
Marshall College on Saturday, September 7 at 1 
pm.
Women’s Soccer will be away at Allegheny Col­
lege on Wednesday, September 11. The game will 
begin at 5 pm.
Men’s Soccer will visit Mt. Union College on 
Saturday, September 7. Game time begins at 2 
pm.
The Men and Women’s Cross Country Team
will host Pitt-Johnstown/LaRoche on. Saturday, 
September 7. The men’s meet will begin at 10:30 
am and the women’s is scheduled to startat 11:15 
am.
The Women’s Volleyball Team will be away at 
the Oberlin College Tournament on September 6 
and 7.
Women’s Tennis will host Grove City«College 
this Thursday with the match beginning at 3:30 
pm.
Men’s Tennis will be away at Frostburg State 
University on Saturday, September 7. The match 
will begin at 4 pm.
The Hewlett Gallery will start its 1996-1997 
season with a triple site art installation, Equation: 
Gallery - Art + A Green House = Reclamation by 
Pittsburgh based, Japanese artist Reiko Goto. 
Equation will be on view at the Hewlett Gallery 
and on campus through September 7. A closing 
reception is scheduled at the gallery on Thursday, 
September 5; from 5-7 pm. On Saturday morning, 
the artist will conduct an organized tour of the 
Nine Mile Run area. A bus will be available to take 
people from the gallery to the site. Admission to the 
gallery, the green house, the tour (including bus 
transportation), and the reception is free. For 
more information, call x8-2829.
The Silver Eye Center for Photography is now
accepting photography entries for The Eleventh 
Annual Juried Members’ Show to be exhibited 
January 22 through February 28,1997. The dead­
line for entries is Wednesday, November 6. There 
is no entry fee for current Silver Eye members. For 
non-members, there is a $35 membership fee. For 
more information, call 431-1810.
mMsmHR
The City Theatre presents Gargaro Productions’ 
“Schoolhouse Rock Live!” from September 18 
through October 6. Performances will be held at 8 
pm on Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, at 
5:30 and 9 pm on Saturdays, and at 2 pm on 
Sundays. Ticket prices will range from $10-15. 
For more information, call 431-CITY.
The Carnegie Museum of Art presents A Look 
at Great American Photography, a lecture provid­
ing an exploration of several great American pho­
tographers included in the Made in America: Ten 
Centuries of American Art exhibition. View Ansel
Carnegie Mellon University’s Architecture 
Department will offer a 10-week course entitled 
“Architecture for Children,” September 21 through 
November 23. The class meets 9:30-11:30 am on 
Saturdays. Class size is limited. To register for the 
course or to obtain more information, call 268- 
1542.
Fifth Annual McLean Law Lecture presents 
Fifty Years Later: Reflections on Nuremberg. Ben­
jamin B. Ferencz and Henry T. King, former 
prosecuters at the Nuremberg War Crimes Trials 
will speak on Thursday, September 26 at 6 pm. The 
event will be held at the University of Pittsburgh 
School of Law in the Teplitz Memorial Courtroom, 
3900 Forbes Avenue. For more information or to 
make reservations, call 471-7852.
The Eastern Orthodox Foundation will hold 
Welcomefest ’96 on Sunday, September 8 begin­
ning at 11 am on the Foundation grounds located 
10 miles east of Indiana, PA on Rt. 422 near Penn 
Run. Activities will include a car show, flea mar­
ket, helicopter rides, ethnic food, and more. For 
more information, call 349-4821.
The Times they are a changing. Come gather 
round CS majors, humanities students, engineers, 
and all. The seasons are rapidly aging. Oh how this 
craziness will take us by storm and not release us 
until the fields are sown. Other deep and whimsi­
cal thoughts like this can be found playing in your 
mind, all day, and all night at specific times to be 
announced.
F
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra presents 
Gil Shaham on violin on September 12,13, and 14. 
Music performed will include selections from 
Berlioz, Mendelssohn, and Beethoven. For infor­
mation about special student rates, call 392-4900.
The River City Brass Band struts proudly into 
its 15th anniversary season on Saturday, Septem­
ber 14 at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. Entitled 
Marching Along, after the autobiography of John 
Phillip §ous.g, the concert program explores a vari­
ety of popular;marches, from the pens of Hector 
Berlioz, Jacques Offenbach, .Gustav Holst, Edwin 
FrankpÆoldman, and Jolin Phillip Sousa himself. 
The concert will be performed at 8 pm on Saturday, 
September 14, at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. 
For more information, call 322-7222.
ree advertising in The Tartan! If
you have an announcement that is
related to the campus community, or a 
Vox Populi for one of your friends, send
V; z
it to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu or send
mail to the Calendar Editor of The
Tartan, Box BÜ in the Student Center.
Happy Birthday POOCHFE* \
‘ C&53,
ÜÎTgas^VeSK„ 
lti,0uither0c?D!CojWd0
tfocfo
sy. —‘-«-gi-ass!°oklousv the iöSta-=
My cat’s breath
cat food.
Thanks for the flowers. Ping-
Mel —. t
"Wth yo° f0r^St(/to
n,s year
! forgot the milk. We 
have to go to Ohio.
w Go E5.
""¦'Phy; WO«1
0gSrst« ins« ¡he nn-Kn,
greatest, hun7
Ice cream — maybe?
Mac Mirchandani/special to The Tartan
The class of 2000 has jumped into CMU. This year’s Orientation program was a huge success thanks to the hard work of the entire student life staff. Be aware of these zany people as they may try to get you to wear a name-tag.
Adams’s romantic landscapes, modern life as cap­
tured by Alfred Stieglitz, and other highlights of 
American photography. For more information about 
programs and admission, call 622-3131.
