7
4>
<$\t vartan
Published Weekly By 
Students Of The Carnegie Technical Schools.

---------------------------------------------------

OV>*0*O*0%0*O\O%0VC>V0VO\O%0\0%O\0\0%ñ o
Hotel Schenlev
PITTSBURG, PA.
*O X. 
P 9,0 *0 
*0 *0 *0*0*0*
?0*0*0*0*0*0 »0 
0 g 0 «0 
SX0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0%O*0\0*0*0
ESTIMATES FURNISHED
FOR
0ESTT IMAAFUT
AND
ISA0FT
James Riley, Prop.
0
0*0*0*0*
P00*0*0*
u0*0*0
TyT7vrTyTvT\>TvT;/vVTVTyT;T'T;/T;^VVTyTVTvTy
I ?I RNHDOi sNKLD 0NB 6
Pittsburg’s Great Store j
EVERYTHING
FOR
EVERYBODY
* AND ALWAYS AT THE VERY
i si LOWEST PRICES 40 4»
04*04*0+04*04*04*04*'0+ii^4*04,04,04,0+04*04,0+04*0^
0\O\0\ON0N0\O\0\0N0*0*0V0*0\0\0\0\0*
HEIMERTSES TIMAM FIM UMR NH
00%0%0V0\0\0\0N0\0%0\0\0\0\0%0V0%0%0%
RENIF SIEAFS DRO iDsDUDS ER UKSLERB OAELLERNB 6DU7AE6 DRO VLDRRMLLMFFMS b
RYGC, SCY$,4 50. ,5 01.25 2'.C 1
0i'P'e'4 01n00B 01n50B 02.00 ' S&Y, r
------------------- %D4a k5$ ,C2 RMT AMO UMR MDAL t TELSHR ow 
6HLLDASB FTH VHA D vKDAFMA w
Oakland Agency for the well-known Genuine
HOLEPROOF HOSE.
IROQUOIS BLOCK:*^^' 
OAKLAND HATTER AND HABERDASHER
Open evenings until 9 o’clock Saturday 
evening until 11 o’clock.
0
l
II
P0
1
PI
P0
?
*0*0*
l0*0*0
i
PIa
DANCING
BEGINNERS:
Wednesdays—Saturdays, u P. M.
ADVANCED:
Mondays—Fridays, u P. M.
PRIVATE LESSONS:
Every Afternoon and Evening.
M^Dou^all’s
New $50,000 School—4 doors east of 
Craig on Forbes Street. Clean, Lux­
urious and perfectly equipped.
u—TEACHERSsu
0*0
1%ÍI0o|*
80
P
P
\0\0%0*0%0%0*0\0%0%0%0%0\0\0*0%0%0X0
P w 0 
P 0 
0 
0I 
g

---------------------------------------------------

MARIETTA GAME
®artan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1908VOL. Ill, No. 9TEN CENTS
On last Saturday the team played its only game 
away from home this season. The first half was a 
good example of foot-ball as it should be played and 
Marietta wrould not have scored except for the drop 
kick of Dayton. As it was he was compelled to 
make his attempt from the thirty yard line. Three 
other times during the game he tried to repeat but 
was not successful.
Hatcher had his first experience as quarter in any 
thing but practice and no one can place any of the' 
discredit of defeat at his door. After Herschel and 
Hittner had been hurt and retired the team seemed 
to gradually weaken until at the close Marietta had 
everything her own way. Our forward passes worked 
successfully on two occasions and would have on one 
other if McCorkle had not sprained his ankle again. 
Brown, Ramp and Marshall all played good games 
throughout and if the rest of the squad had been 
able to keep up their pace the result would have 
been different.
Line-up:
TECH. MARIETTA.
Critchlow ..........................L. E...........................................Starr
Ramp—Koken ...............L. T................................... Dayton
Koken—Ramp ....... .L. G....................................... Drumm
Nichols—Gaston ................C............................ Gradinaroff
Herschel-Naismith-Kime.R. G........................... Kennard
Marshall ...........................R. T................... Greene—Miller
Beeken-McCorkle-Halferty. R. E... . Danheimer-Kreps
Hatcher ..............................Q. B........................ Horne—Nye
Brown ..................................L. H................... Reiter—Devel
Hittner—Roe ...................R. H........................................ Ellis
Schmucker ........................F. B................................. Ripner
Referee—Sugden. Umpire—Evaul. Field judge— 
Benner. Head linesman—Cook.
After the game the Marietta boys proved them­
selves first class hosts as well as foot-ball players. 
They entertained the team at an informal dance 
given at the Elks’ Club, at which all the squad that 
were able and several that were not were present. Ev­
erybody had a good time and the good fellowship 
shown us did a great deal to lessen the sting of de­
feat.
CALENDAR.
Saturday. 
CASE vs. TECH.
Sunday.
MEETING OF SPECIAL ATHLETIC CONSTITU­
TION COMMITTEE—11 A. M.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS REHEARSAL.
2.45 P. M.
Monday Night at 7, Assembly Hall. 
MEETING OF ALL CLASS ATHLETIC REPRE­
SENTATIVES. FULL ATTENDANCE 
IMPERATIVE.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
M. M. C. S.
Pure Food in New York.
The recent agitation for pure food has been pro­
ductive of much good, nowhere, perhaps, more so 
than in New York City. More than 22,000,000 pounds 
or 11,000 tons of foodstuffs have been destroyed by 
the inspectors in the last year. The greater part of 
these were fruits and vegetables, but an immense 
amount of canned goods, supposedly fresh meats and 
dairy products, was also confiscated.
The average housekeeper has not so much reason 
as formerly to fear impure foods, as it is daily being 
made more difficult for bad food to get into the mar­
ket. Of course, there are grocery stores where 
adulterated food is palmed off on unsuspecting cus­
tomers, but the number of such stores is small, and 
if the purchaser insists on pure food, it can be had, 
even in the cheaper stores.
The work is done by thirty-eight inspectors, and, 
by a system of rotation, each inspector is made 
familiar with each of the districts into which the 
city is divided. There are, perhaps, no busier places 
in the world than the piers of the Pennsylvania Rail­
road, the pier of the Old Dominion Steamship Co., 
and the Erie Railroad’s California dock during the 
fruit and vegetable season. All goods that show a 
tendency to spoil are condemned and cannot be 
disposed of except by the Health Department, which 
means that they are loaded on scows and sent out 
to sea to be food for fishes.
There is strict supervision over all canned goods 
whether meat, oysters, fruits, vegetables, or con­
densed and evaporated milk and cream. The in­
spection extends to all spices and condiments. Black 
pepper adulterated with almond pits is no longer 
found. Maple syrup with some other reducing sugar 
is not sold, nor is honey with glucose adulteration. 
Sardines labelled ‘ Packed in Olive Oil” are pretty 
sure to be so put up.
Three years ago candy manufacturers used sul­
phites to harden stick candies. Tartaric acid was 
used in lemon drops, and lampblack took the place 
of licorice. Animal fat took the place of cocoa but­
ter and wood alcohol was used in making the cheaper 
soft candies. These adulterations are prevented now. 
Every place where soda water is dispensed is. in­
spected frequently and consumers are reasonably 
sure they are getting real fruit syrups.
Each of the thirty-five abattoirs along the river 
fronts are inspected daily during the hours of kill­
ing, and the greatest care is taken to see that the 
sanitary conditions are wrhat they should be. All 
this has been the result of years of hard work, but 
it will not be long before the Health Department 
will be able to make it impossible to buy risky food­
stuffs anywrhere.
Miss Henderson takes the Hamilton car,
And this she always will,
For at the corner of Penn and Fifth,
On gets her little “Bill.”
Miss Merrill (in Chemistry lecture)—“Prof. Es- 
querre, please talk a little louder; the engine is mak­
ing so much noise we cannot hear.”
Prof. Esquerre—“Well, tell the engine to stop.”
One H. A. Sr. to another—“How d’you like to be 
the laundress?”
Second H. A. ¡Sr.—“O, fine! I ride in the elevator 
every day, now!”
Last Tuesday afternoon we had a delightful little 
heart to heart talk from Dr. Hamilton Wright Mabie 
whose charming essays wre know and love so well. 
He said:
“I never hesitate to address 'a body ot students 
when I know I am taking time from their regular 
lessons—for that sort of thing is always popular! 
But today 1 realize that whatever time I t-ike will be 
keeping you from your pleasures, so I shn’l not keep 
you long. If I were to take a text for this talk it 
would be the title of one of Emerson's essays—- 
‘Works and Days.’ By this expression Emerson 
meant to intimate correlation of work with life, with 
that larger and richer experience which we call life.
“Work is not merely a separate skill, not simply 
a distinct ability. Work, if real, is an expression of 
one’s entire personality. The secret of success is 
to put one’s spirit into one’s work, to press it to one's 
heart, to put into it the living power of one’s soul. 
The works of all great men are distinctive and origi­
nal because of thè skill, the confidence, affection, and 
fidelity which flow out of themselves. Mr. Arnold 
once said, ‘If I have had any success in life, it has
been because 1 have put my heart into my work.’
It is love for one’s work, not talent, that makes the
artist; so all work, from the merest routine to the
highest creative activity, can bear the artistic stamp.
“There are three or four great characteristics of 
good work; skill, which is the command of material; 
character, the hand that holds the tools; ease, the 
flower that blooms from the root of labor.
‘No matter what kind of work it is, it must be 
the expression of character—it is the language of 
the soul. Don’t shrink from any drudgery or self- 
denial to acquire that language—get its whole vo­
cabulary. Then you can pour yourself into your 
work, give it the force and vitality that will count 
for your own success and advancement. For work 
brings its own reward in that deep sense of satis­
faction which comes to every artist. Remember 
that it is not a question of what pleases others in 
your work, but of what you yourself put into it. 
That is what impels us onward to the complete un­
folding and developing of character. Let us remem­
ber, too, the words of the poet—

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
‘In the elder days of Art 
Builders wrought with greatest cai'e,
Each minute and unseen part 
For the gods see everywhere.’ ”
Our friend, Capt. Jack Crawford, has not forgotten 
us. Last week we received a copy of a song en­
titled, “Sunshine of My Soul,” the words oi which he 
has written. On the first page in his own handwrit­
ing is this inscription, “To the dear girls of Tech 
who have been such an inspiration to me. J. W. 
Crawford—Capt. Jack.”
Do You Know Her?
A macaroon 
A cup of tea 
An afternoon 
Is all that she 
Will eat—
She’s in society!
But let me take 
This maiden fair 
To some cafe,
And then and there,
She’ll eat the whole 
Blame bill of fare!
—Detroit Free Press.
Juniors Entertain the Plebes.
Friday afternoon, before Hallowe’en, the Juniors 
entertained the Plebes at a Phantom party. The 
gymnasium was decorated in yellow and white and 
numerous pennants from other schools and colleges. 
Silhouettes of black cats, watches and jack-o-lanterns 
on the white walls gave a wierd. and decidedly 
“spooky” effect. Promptly at three o’clock, the 
ghostly guests arrived and were received by the 
equally ghostly hostesses. A grand march and danc­
ing, with nuts and candy sandwiched in between, 
afforded entertainment. Every ojie reported as hav­
ing had a fine time.
A Plebe was overheard remarking the other day, 
“There will be singers, players, and violiners.”
Miss Henderson thinks Lochinvar should have 
let Ellen alone when she was about to marry another 
man. She doesn’t think he was coming to see her 
when he was “wooing” her.
Mr. Church—“How do you designate the direc­
tions?”
Miss Wiley—“Well, if I face you, that would be 
north, wouldn’t it?”
Just a Feminine Trait.
“The habit of looking under the bed for burglars,” 
the young woman said, “ is something that folks 
laugh at, but I never have been able to get myself 
out of it. 1 never feel perfectly comfortable unless
I look, no matter where I am. To my mind there
isn’t any place but a safety deposit vault, where burg­
lars are unlikely to be.
“In fact, the habit is so strongly ingrained in me, 
that one night when I was staying in a small country 
hotel where there was nothing but a folding bed in 
the room, I took it down and then looked under it 
before I got into bed! That’s a fact. I laughed at 
myself the minute after.”
Miss Black has a new kind of “tickler” which
comes in handy in a crowded street car. Ask her 
about it.
Miss Lesley (answering roll call)—‘Here; I’m 
here.”
The Senior Lit. Problem.
An easy verse in simple rhyme,
Requiring neither thought nor time ;
The proposition, so they say 
Is little more than children’s play.
Tho’ thoughts may flow as fast as ink,
’Tis not so easy as you’d think;
For such profusion have we here,
Of figures of speech to charm the ear;
The most impressive ones to use,
To clothe your thoughts—what words to choose 
For metaphor and simile,
Synecdoche, hyperbole,
Apostrophe, metonymy—
Bewildering variety—
Allusion, irony, and all 
Tangle us in an endless ball.
To make a choice from these—and more 
The problem’s simplified no more,
But growing at a rapid rate,
Assumes proportions very great.
Elizabeth Harman.
Miss Fisher wants to put the Plebe C’s to sleep 
in pantomime.
Last Tuesday, Miss Fisher inquired of the Senior 
H. A. girls which of the poems in Book I of the 
Golden Treasury had most impressed them. When it 
came to Miss Ihmsen’s turn, she promptly responded 
with these suggestive lines:
“Never love unless you can 
Bear with all the faults of man.”
’Tis not hard to tell whither her thoughts are 
trending.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
Conundrums.
When is an elevator not an elevator? (When it’s 
a loft.)
Why is an oyster not an even tempered animal? 
(Because he’s usually in a stew.)
Why is buttermilk like something thae never has 
happened?
Because it has never a curd (occurred).
An H. A. “Yell.”
Needles and pins,
Test tubes and tarts,
Dust pan and broom—
Household Arts!
The Gym is shrouded in an air of great mystery 
these days. Wonder what it means?
| NINETEEN-TWELVE |
To Be or Not to Be.
I’d rather be a Could-be 
If I cannot be an Are;
For a Could-be is a May-be,
With a chance of touching par.
I’d rather be a Has-been
Than a Might-have-been by far:
For a Might-have-been is a Hasn’t-been,
But a Has was once an Are.
“Common Sense” is a little magazine put out by 
the advertising manager of The Electric Controller 
and Supply Co., of Cleveland, Ohio. Here are a few 
choice extracts from a column of Philosophy headed 
“Bait:”
“Economy is fashionable this winter.”
“Some of us fit in—others butt in.”
“A pull may get you a job, but it won’t help you 
make good.”
“We have more trouble hunting trouble than we 
have after we have found it.”
“Luck is largely a matter of courage and nerve 
(sometimes called ‘brass’).’'
“Learning is frequently a drug on the market 
while doing always finds ready buyers.” ..
“Spend and you’re a good fellow; save and you're 
a ‘tight-wad.’ ”
Farmer Brown was sitting on a bench in the park 
(it matters little which one) eating a banana, and of 
course, carelessly tossed the peelings on the promen­
ade.
A rather short and broad lady, somewhat over­
loaded with bundles, stepped on one of the innocent 
looking objects, and immediately proceeded to do 
what any one else would probably have done in like 
circumstances.
Of course, it was all an accident, but nevertheless 
Brown laughed. Not silently, but boisterously. He 
didn't mean to but he simply couldn’t help it.
Rising to her full height and giving him a look 
which ought to have squashed him, she said, “Sir, 
you are no gentleman!”
“Neither are you, judging from what I have seen of 
you,” answered Farmer Brown.—Ex.
A certain rural village not many miles from Pitts­
burg, boasts of a very remarkable cow.
Her owner advertises in the town weekly as fob 
lows:
“For Sale: A cow who gives good milk, a load of 
hay, a dozen chickens, a set of bedroom furniture, 
and a cook stove.”—Ex.
They say:—
That Joe McCreery’s moustache is past rounding 
into a recognizable condition.
That Merten’s moustache went out to have its 
ends curled the night of September 12th and has 
not returned.
That Hess would like to get back to school, but 
does not believe in mixing sentiment with education.
That Lonergan visited us last Friday evening 
and when asked to explain his many absences, said, 
“If sentiment interferes with your education, cut 
out the education.”
That the Class of 1913 has a crack foot-ball squad 
and will beat us to a frazzle Thanksgiving morning 
—but we don’t believe it.
That it is a heinous and„unpardonable sin to multi­
ply by pi three or four times when once irf sufficient.
That some are so bright that they can turn in notes 
on Electricity expressed precisely as Swope express­
es tnem.
That Prof. D-------- will sit the next fellow falling
asleep during his lecture on the sill of an open win 
dow.
NOTICE.
The 1912 squad will play the Avalon ex-High 
eleven Saturday, November 21st. Kickoff at 2 P. M.
Come out ye ’12 men and root, and rooc, and root. 
’Twill give you good practice and ’twill be at the 
Conservatory of Music for cultivating thi voice.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
| INDUSTRIALS |
Early in the season the Industrial School elected 
to support class teams. The support was rather 
feeble so the matter was again taken up and per­
manently settled. Each class shall elect a collector, 
wrho shall collect the sum agreed upon each month, 
and turn it over to the treasurer.
Of late there has been a tendency to violent gym­
nastics, in the lower hall. Now no one cares very 
much whether some “village cu-t-ups” butt their 
heads against the brick walls, so long as they do not 
block the passage way. It is unpleasant to be forced 
into a game of that kind, as most heads can not 
stand the pressure. If the fellows who enjoy this 
sort of pastime will get together in one end of the 
hall and stay there no one will object. Just remem­
ber, fellows, that the corridors are student thorough­
fares. Let us use them as such.
¡Said Steinmetz: I read so much Latin that the 
numbers on this scale look strange.
Said Werner: Well, why don't you give the Roman 
numerals on the clock a rest? ,
How about a smoker for the whole Industrial 
School ?
yard line and were only prevented from scoring 
by time being called.
Line-up: —
INDUSTRIALS.SCHOLASTICS.
Thompson ................................ G. Northey
___L. T____........................... Davis
Sutherin ............................................. Smith
. . .R. T___
......................... Harriet
MacGregor ..............___Q. B.............................. McNulty
White ......................... .R. H. B. ............. Buchanan
Two minutes more would have given us the game.
Saturday evening Miss Ruth Barr, of Carnegie, 
entertained in honor of the industrial team. The 
evening was spent in dancing after which a lunch 
was served.
What was the cause of so many taking peeps into 
the hall, in the direction of the stairway? Ask the 
doctor and Miss -----------.
Slingerland—How much is one hundred feet of 
wire?
Kester has given up Scotch broth. Let’s rejoice.
It would be very convenient if the Industrial 
classes would have distinguishing names other than 
first year and second year.
INDUSTRIALS VS. CARNEGIE SCHOLASTICS.
On a strange field covered with six inches of snow, 
which hid all the holes and other disadvantages, 
with which our opponents were familiar, the Indus­
trials last Saturday played a no score game with the 
Carnegie Scholastic’s team.
The Scholastics kicked off to Industrials at 3.30. 
The game lasted about an hour and a half, being 
played in halves of twenty and fifteen minutes, with 
plenty of time taken out by both teams to allow the 
players to dig the snow from their eyes and ears.
The slippery condition of the ball was the cause 
of many a fumble, and right here is where our new 
man, Kriedler, shone, for the way in which he was 
always there to fall on the ball, was the leading 
feature of the game.
Rugh, White and Walton also did their part by line 
plunges and runs around ends; in fact, the whole 
team played the game from start to finish. Toward 
the end of the second half, the Industrials began to 
find their opponents’ weak places and by a series of 
steady gains carried the ball to the Scholastics ten
Mi-. Steen—“What is an abridged dictionary?”
Taggart—“An abridged dictionary is one that has 
index letters cut in the edge of it.”
McEwen—“Stale is an old word.
Mosellen—“Cats’ fur and glass will create elec­
tricity.”
Mr. Calderwood—“Yes. In one sense a cat and 
glass is a small elective dynamo.”
Schroth—“Did you ever see an electric dynamo 
turn around and scratch one?”
Where was Mr. Payne w’hen the lights went out?
Schroth has found out a new relish which he wish­
es to offer to the M. M. School. It is, Pickled Tin.
Silverman—“What is an ‘element disturber?’ ”
Alexander—“You are. See? Um?”
The B-l class is becoming quite popular here of 
late. Two of a class of twelve were already bap­
tized, and the rest were driven to shelter.

---------------------------------------------------

8THETA RTAN
hed hWkhWy
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu­
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
F. I. Gaston, ’09—Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nicols, ’10—Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, ’10, Night—Associate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.—Associate Editor 
J. Roura, ’10—Business Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ....................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
WILLIAM A. WOOD.
On the cover page of this issue we are printing 
a likeness of Mr. William A. Wood, a member of the 
M. M. C. S. Faculty who has been instrumental in 
working out the curriculum of his department along 
original lines.
Mr. Wood is a native of Southern Ohio. His edu­
cation was acquired in the public and normal schools 
of that state. After five years apprenticeship as 
“The Village Schoolmaster,” he moved to Pittsburg 
and took a commercial course in a local school. After 
graduation and one year’s experience as an instruc­
tor in bookkeeping, Mr. Wood accepted a position 
as a bookkeeper for a small manufacturing plant. 
From that position he gradually worked up to the 
position of auditor for one of the largest iron and 
steel interests of the city. He came to the schools 
after three years’ experience at general auditing 
and is familiar with the methods employed in most 
of the big interests of the district.
Mr. Woods has made good use of his business 
training by introducing into the Secretarial Course 
offered by the Carnegie Technical Schools, many 
practical commercial features not heretofore attempt­
ed by schools of this character.
One of these features is a well equipped Banking 
Institution, regularly organized, having a capital 
stock, the students being the stock holders. The 
bank has a full quota of officers who perform the 
routine work of a bank, handling and making out the 
various papers and vouchers used in a bank, making 
the proper entries on the books and balancing and 
proving their books every day the class is in session.
Another of these features is the method used in 
teaching bookkeeping in which the student is requir­
ed to make out all of the business forms used in an 
ordinary commercial house. An account is opened 
with the bank; deposits are made, notes discounted, 
and drafts collected. All accounts are paid by checks, 
and at certain stated intervals the student leaves 
her bank book for balance, receives her cancelled 
checks and checks her bank balance with her books, 
thus getting the practical a? well as the theoretical 
training.
A cataloging and filing room has been added in 
which the students are trained in the best methods 
of taking care of correspondence and in letter press 
and mimiograph work.
The game with W. & J. on Thanksgiving will be 
the last played on the Tech Field. The lease at 
present operative, ceases to be in effect on December 
1st, 1908, and after that time the field will be en­
tirely in the hands of the Pittsburg Base-ball Club. 
The grand stands now in place are the property of 
the Athletic Association of the Schools, and will be 
taken down and moved to the new field ready to be 
put up in the spring, between November 27th and 
December 1st. The contract for the moving is in 
the hands of the Athletic Association and will be let 
in plenty of time to have the work completed before 
the latter date. Inasmuch as any such contract will 
not include the taking down of the score board, the 
woodwork of the dressing quarters and the ticket 
booths, it is necessary to have the active assistance 
of a number of students. All the men who feel they 
can spare some of their valuable time between the 
above mentioned dates are to report on the field to 
Mr. Pfouts. What work there will be to do will be 
light, and a good turnout will greatly help the mov­
ing.
Lest we forget: the suggestion of having some 
place other than the class rooms, where a fellow 
can sit down when he has a few spare minutes, 
has been coming to the Tartan from a number of 
sources in as many ways. Near the begining of the 
term, the popularity of such a place was made evi­
dent by the manner in which the drawing tables, 
temporarily stored in the first corridor, were used 
to sit on. We need benches in their place. A fellow 
can’t stand up all the time, and there are times 
when it is desirable to sit down and talk to some 
one; the library is a long distance away, while the 
only remaining hope is that of finding a class room 
vacant. There can certainly be no objection to 
benches as far as appearances go. The scheme would 
largely remove the present temptation for rough- 
housing in the halls when several sections find it 
necessary to stand around to pass a half hour or so.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
THE OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY '$TRIES TO TREAT ITS PATRONS JUST A LITTLE BETTER THAN ANY OTHER BANK 
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00 '
OFFICERS :JAS. J. FUNNERY,JAMES J. BOOTH,JOHN G. PEW,
C. B. AYEESWORTH, -
President 
Vice President 
2nd V. Pres, and Sec.Treasurer
1913 FOOT-BALL.
After considerable practice the 1913 foot-ball team 
has gotten into fairly good shape and the men all 
expect to give a good account of themselves when 
they get into the game. Nelson, the quarter-back, 
has been elected captain and as he has had two years 
and also played on the Bellefonte Academy team, he 
should be able to run the team in good shape. The 
members of the team are doing their best to them­
selves to get into condition for the game on Thanks­
giving morning when they are to disprove the state­
ment made by 1912 that “1913 will be attended to on 
Thanksgiving morning.”
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.
The first meeting of the Athletic Association Com­
mittee was called to order by Prof. S. S. Keller on 
Monday night. After briefly outlining the work be­
fore the committee he appointed “Buck” Thomson 
temporary chairman. Taking the chair, Thomson 
at once declared an election of officers to be in order. 
This resulted in his being elected president, and Billy 
Hittner, secretary. A committee consisting of Rog­
ers (Night Architect), Harrison (Day A. S.), Robin­
son (Night A. S.), Frampton (A. & J.), with Thom­
son and Hittner, was appointed to consider all pro­
posed constitutions and draft one for recommenda­
tion. This committee meets at 11 Sunday morning 
and will have things in shape to report to the meet­
ing of all Athletic representatives elected by classes, 
in thé Assembly Hall, Monday night at 7. The im­
portance of the attendance of all these representa­
tives at this meeting cannot be overestimated.
BOSTON TECH’S NEW PRESIDENT.
The executive committee of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology last week elected Professor 
Richard C. Maclaurin, now head of the department 
of Physics at Columbia, President of the Institute.
Professor Maclaurin is a graduate of the Univer­
sity of Cambridge, England. He took two degrees 
at that institution, Bachelor of Arts and Master of 
Arts. Returning later he was awarded the McMahon 
Law Studentship. He won two of the most coveted 
prizes at Cambridge University in two distinct 
branches: law and mathematics. And withal is yet 
a young man.
COURT DERBY
TECH-N EGI E
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT©tto Getting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES

---------------------------------------------------

IOTHE TARTAN
CH>0:CH^OOC^O<>CM^Oi^O
| PLEBE CLASS |
Billy Hittner was elected Plebe Representative to 
the Athletic Board. We feel sure that Bill will fill 
the hill.
Stone says that he is a victim of the unscrupulous 
press, “Can’t say nothing around here, but what 
they go and put it in that gol-darned Tartan.”
Prof. (explaining sketch)—“Gamble, is this the 
back yard of your house or a micrometer?” Warn­
ing: Always label your drawings.
Sophs were quite excited one day last week over 
a rumor that the Plebe banquet was to come off that 
evening. They wanted to donate the cigars, per- 
shoes to keep his feet warm.
Prof. Willett—“What will I talk about this morn­
ing?”
Osborn—“Talk about two minutes and let us go.”
The Plebes of Applied Design have elected the fol­
lowing officers:
President—R. R. Reeves.
Vice-President—F. X. Keally.
Secretary-Treasurer^—Wm. Burkhart.
Tartan Representative—T. M. Schmitt.
Thistle Representatives—J. M. Jeffers, T. M. Jones.
Athletic Representative—R. L. Mullen.
Aeronaut Mench comes from the planet Mercury. 
We might suggest that he wear a heavier pair of 
hsoes to keep his feet warm.
Ask F. X. Keally for a pretzel. He spent part of 
the other morning in Oakland.
The Architects, after five weeks’ work, will spend 
this week cleaning the prespiration from their draw­
ing boards.
That was an awful “lemon” handed to us last week 
by Doc. James.
Ti’aver has been elected president of the most 
honorable Society of Muts.
With four inches of snowr on the ground the Fresh­
men foot-ball team beat the Ben Avon Scholastics 
to the tune of 5-0. Throughout the game the Fresh­
men had the best of it, the two ends, Traver and 
“Paw” Atcheson, doing work of a star-like order. 
“Paw” Atcheson scoring the five points by falling on 
the ball behind the opponents goal line. Mullen 
failed to make the extra point by missing the goal.
Considering the amount of arguing that was in­
dulged in during the game, it is still an open question 
as to whether the game was a foot-ball contest, or a 
debating match.
Spirit of Labor.
Look for the spirit moving
’Mid the din of the work-shop wheel;
Deep in the glow of the forging,
Under the glare of the steel.
You see not a dainty spirit,
Sombre and black is its mien;
Yet it has made for the nations 
The beauty it never has seen.
J. O. C.
The good and bad qualities of a street paving 
block made of iron slag may be summarized as fol­
lows: It has a hard and durable surface, does not 
absorb moisture, and may be readily cleaned. The 
abrasion being but small, it makes very little dust 
or mud. When it is properly laid it presents a true 
surface, and consequently the traction is easy com­
pared with that of some other types of pav­
ing. On the other hand experience has shown 
that it wears to a slippery surface, making it 
hard on horses, and there is a tendency to flake off 
at the surface, in which case hollows are worn, and 
the street presents an unsightly appearance.—.Scien­
tific American.
A generating unit of novel design is being built for 
the Interborough Transit Company by the General 
Electric Company. One of the present 5,000 kilo­
watt reciprocating compound engines will be ar­
ranged to deliver its exhaust to a 5,000 kilowatt low- 
pressure turbine of the Curtis type. The turbine 
will be directly coupled to an induction generator, 
which will be connected to the leads of the recipro­
cating engine governor. There will be no governor 
on the low-pressure turbine, which will be con­
trolled in speed by the generator, the latter being 
controlled by the governors on the reciprocating en­
gines. It is expected that a far larger output will 
be obtained from this triple-expansion combination, 
as compared with that obtained from the reciprocat­
ing engine alone.—Scientific American.
It is reported that the Erie Railroad will soon be­
gin the electrification of its main line between Jer­
sey City and Suffern. The plans are being drawn 
up and it is expected that electric trains will be run 
over this 32-mile section within a year.—Scientific 
American.

---------------------------------------------------

OV> O*%O*\11
WATER POWER DEVELOPMENT AT GREAT 
FALLS, MONT.
Plans are oeing perfected by Charles T. Main, en­
gineer, Boston, Mass., for the immediate develop­
ment of two powers near great Falls, Mont. The 
upper development is to be made at the falls known 
as Coulter’s, Crooked and Rainbow, situated about 
three miles down the river from Great Falls. At 
this point the head will be about 105 feet high. A 
crib dam about 25 feet high will be built, with ma­
sonry head gate, and waste-gate structures. A steel 
penstock 22 feet in diameter and about 2,500 feet 
long will extend from the intake to the power house, 
the latter will be of masonry construction, contain­
ing about 30,000 hp of wheels and electrical ap­
paratus.
The lower development is about 12 miles below 
Great Falls. Here the fall is about the same as at 
the upper development. The dam will be of the 
same construction as at Rainbow Falls, the canal 
being 500 feet long, and directly below this the 
power house. The equipment will be a duplication 
of that at the upper development.
The engineering corps already organized by Mr. 
Main is now busily engaged in making surveys and 
in the preparation of plans. The work on the coffer 
dams is already begun and it is expected to push 
the work of development to completion as fast as 
possible.
A considerable portion of the power developed 
will be used at the Boston & Montana Smelter, at 
Great Falls, Mont. The balance will be transmitted 
to more distant places.—Electrical World.
A company has been formed to bore another tunnel 
connecting Switzerland and Italy. This tunnel will 
run through Mt. Blanc, starting at Martingly, in 
Switzerland, and coming out at Courmayeur, Italy. 
It will be 28 miles long and it is expected that it 
will be completed in three years.—Scientific Ameri­
can.
Electric generators were first adapted to be cou­
pled to reciprocating engines, and hence were de­
signed for comparatively slow speed. When it came 
to coupling the generator to a turbine it was neces­
sary to operate it at a lower speed than was eco­
nomical, so as to accommodate it to the slow-speed 
electro-generator. Recently generators adapted for 
high-speed service have been designed and a special
type of. turbine, known as the double-flow turbine, 
is used to operate these generators. There are sev­
eral 10-000-kilowatt two-pole machines now under 
construction adapted to operate at 1,500 revolutions 
per minute.—Scientific American.
The quartz lamp represents the latest development 
in mercury vapor illumination. It has been found 
that the mercury arc increases in efficiency up to a 
certain degree with the rise of temperature when in­
cased in a glass tube. When a quartz tube is used 
instead of glass the temperature may be raised still 
higher because the quartz resists a higher degree of 
heat than does the glass. The new lamp consists 
of a tube from 2V2 to 5 inches long and from 0.4 to 
0.6 inch in diameter. The arc is started by tilting 
the tube so that the mercury will connect the two 
electrodes. The tilting is accomplished automati­
cally by an electromagnet. Instead of the bluish 
light given in the glass tubes the quartz lamp yields 
a yellowish green light of much greater intensity, 
and a glass globe must be used over the quartz tube 
to protect the eyes from ultra-violet light. At the 
start the lamp absorbs 25 to 30 volts, but as the 
pressure increases the voltage rises to about 180.— 
Scientific American.
t
****4b4B4b***4b4B4b
In the game with |
*3,000 Students}
Mr. Merchant, there are over three 
thousand students at Carnegie Tech 
who are spending money every day. 
Do they know who you are and what 
you have to sell? Are you talking 
with them through the advertising 
columns of The Tartan? Better make 
arrangements for space if you want 
your share of Tech money. If you 
want to “get in the game,” write to
Advertising Manager “The Tartan”
Carnegie Technical Schools
*4b4b4b*4*
Î4S4b4B4*t4S4bE
Î
•I* 4* •I* •X" •!* •X*1

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
PERTINENT
AND
IMPERTINENT
Dr. James—If 1 should turn on the carbon dioxide 
now it would kill the men in the first row.
Cummings (in top row)—Turn it on then.
Brill (in Electric Lab.)—Let’s magnify this knife 
with the magnet.
Mr. Lowe—Gentlemen, do you use Kent’s Pocket 
Book?
Class—No.
Mr. L.—Whose pocket book do you use?
Class—Nobodys.
Neel (after watching (?) Mr. Smith cover the board 
with a proof in Calculus)—That is a “very simple 
case,” is it not, Mr. Smith?
Taggart—“Say, Mitchell, how can I dry this 
vacuum and get the thing to atmospheric pressure 
at Oo C?”
Automobile in the distance during French—“Honk 
—honk—honk—honk.”
Prof. Collett—“Who was that said 333?”
November, Friday, 13th, has been and “wented.” 
No mishaps occurred in our class.
IT’S WHAT AN ENGINEER READS
that largely determines his degree of suc­
cess. Every young engineer should read 
the leading journal in his chosen field.
THE LEADING
ENGINEERING JOURNALS ARE:
Electrical World
The foremost authority of the world on all 
branches of electrical work.
Weekly Edition, $3.00. Monthly Edition, $1.00
The Engineering Record
The most valuable paper published for 
the civil and mechanical 'engineer.
Published Weekly—$j.oo a Year
Electric Railway Journal
The undisputed authority on the construc­
tion, operation and management of city 
and inter-urban railways.
Published Weekly—$3.00 a Year
Special Copies on Request 
Special Rates to Students
Our Book Department can supply any engi­
neering book published
McGRAW PUBLISHING CO.
239 West 39 StreetNew York
’CASOSO:
space available)—Now, gentlemen, just see how this 
is coming; isn’t it beautiful. (Class moans and 
groans.) But really, gentlemen, it is indeed beauti­
ful. (Claes beautiful) (?).
Porter, formerly a Tri-Junior Electrical, has been 
forced to don the “goggles,” probably due to over­
study (?) while in the “select” (?) bunch.
We understand from good authority that Alan 
Bright is elegible for the “Fussers’ Gild.” How about 
it, “Dicky?”
The returning of some of the Juniors reminds one 
of the “Prodigal Son,” for like him they have wasted 
their brains in riotous study and are also welcome 
back “home.”
Mr. Smith (in Math, after proving one of those 
long Calculus theorems which require all the board
Prof. Collette—When you try to change English 
to German your mind is a big blank.
Johnson (bright student)—My mind is always a 
blank.
I
The Soph. Civils wish to thank the Civil Engineer­
ing Society for the good time last Saturday night. 
The “foder” and pollacks were also enjoyed.
Any student wishing to join the Labor Union see 
Prof. Hokanson.
Why does Horton always ride on the Garlick Ex­
press or some other Fifth Avenue Car? Prize for 
1st correct solution.
If you wish a subscription to any engineering pub= 
lication they can be gotten through “The 
Tartan” at student rates.

---------------------------------------------------

THETARTAN
MEETING OF THE C. E. SOCIETY.
The Civil Engineering Society held its regular 
meeting Saturday night, November 14tli. As this 
meeting was of special importance on account of the 
election of officers for this term, and the taking in 
of new members from the Junior and Sophomore 
classes, there was an unusually large attendance.
Mr. Beck, acting President, presided over the meet­
ing, and introduced the speakers of the evening.
Prof. Thayer warmly welcomed the new men and 
earnestly requested them to ¡prepare themselves 
for the work of taking over and promoting the in­
terest in the Society’s aims when the present Sen­
ior members now in active control, shall become 
Alumnis. He remarked that he was especially 
pleased and the Society highly favored, to have 
with it two of the present Alumni, “Scotty” Hender­
son and C. A. Niles, both of whom were jailed upon 
later to address the meeting.
Messrs. White and Horton responded in a few 
well-chosen remarks in behalf of their respective 
classes.
The following men signed the pledge for the pro­
motion of good fellowship and interest in the So­
ciety, both as active and Alumni members:
Theron Wasson, W. F. Glosser, Chas. C. Allen, 
R.M. Barnes, G. A. Bell, W. A. Dittman, J. Lloyd 
Elliott, R. P. Bascom, L. F. Baker, C.E. Snyder, H.
B. Cornelius, R. H. Horton, Ritchie Lowrie, .Jr., H. A. 
Warne, H. C. Witte.
The election of officers resulted as follows: —
President—C. W. Beck—Sr.
Vice-President—Theron Wasson—Jr.
Treasurer—B. J. Watrous—Sr.
Secretary—G. A. Bell—Jr.
After the business of the meeting was concluded, 
Prof. Foss was called upon, and gave an extremely 
interesting description of a trip to the summit of 
Mt. Washington. He showed some excellent lanterns 
views of different points of interest on the journey 
to the top. The railroad passed through many cuts 
with slopes almost perpendicular and fifty to a hun­
dred feet deep. The steepest inclines, which finally 
terminated at the summit, are traversed by a track 
on which an engine pushes one car by means of a 
cog drive placed in the center of the track. The 
grade in some places is as steep as 37% %.
A peculiar and novel mode of traveling down these 
long inclines is by use of a slider. This is fashioned 
something like a sled with a lever brake on each 
side operated by the man riding. A mile per minute 
is not an unusual rate of travel. This cannot be 
a misstatement as the Professor was repeatedly ask­
ed to confirm his remark.
Following this narrative, the entertainment com­
mittee served a fine lunch of coffee, sandwiches, ice 
cream, cake and cigars, after which the meeting 
adjourned.
i ** I am the only dry cleaner in Oakland that 2
4» o§ does his own work. I guarantee you satis- £
faction. See Shuman at 3911 Forbes street. 2
^ His customers are pleased. jjj§
BLACKBURN’S ACADEMY
—of—
BALL ROOM, FANCY, STAGE and STEP
DANCING........................................................
Physical Culture, Grace and Deportment 
401-403-405 Liberty Avenue, PITTSBURG, PA.
1925 Court—Phones—9231 Court
O *£** WELL PRESSED IS WELL DRESSED Cj
'i Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co. |
301 South Craig Street ^
4* o
FOR EXPERTS—ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, 
DRAUGHTSMEN — EXPERTS OR STUDENTS
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists’ Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
tCt Wood St., tth Ave.
JAKES DANCING ACADEMY$ JAKES DANCING ACADEMY %
^ Craig & Forbes Sts., Charles Bldg. ^
P CLASSES—Wednesday and Saturday Evenings O 
O PRIVATE LESSONS—By Appointment £
^ 5 Lessons, $2.C0 0
nOnfTCnarCnanynfnfnOgSOSOSfcOSOnCnCnb
PHILLIPS & MANNING 
STATIONERS
MAGAZINES POST CARDS
3702 Forbes Street
CIGARS TOBACCO
R. W. MEDICK
CHOICE HOME
Both Phones
O * o *
DRESSED MEATS AND O 
POULTRY
3804 Forbes Street $
o\o\ovo\ov>v>\o\o\osov>vo\o*ovova*o* 
§
§
§*
*
SO\O\O\O\O\0\Ci%0\O\O\O\0\0\O\O\O\0\O
oso\i:>^oso\c>\o\o\o\os<>\0s0\oso\o\o\oy
1 MURDOCH=KERR CO.
? PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS f
Ample Facilities Large Experience ^
r Satisfactory Service o
£ STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS *
o\a%os0\o%0s0\0\ososa\c>%^%0%'o\osos0%

---------------------------------------------------

14THETA RTAN
HEAVY TAN OIL GRAIN BLUCHER SHOES 
FOR THE YOUNG MEN, $4.00 AND $5.00
6027 Penn STOEBENER'S
6222 Fraimkstown EAST END
USE ON SUPERHEATED STEAM IN AN 
INJECTOR.
Strickland L. Kneass.
(Paper read at Indianapolis meeting of American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers.)
In a large proportion of boiler plants it is custom­
ary to apply an injector to each boiler, either for 
continuous use, or to supplement or take the place 
of the feed pumps when temporarily out of service. 
Both the original cost and its keep-up are less than 
that of the pump, and the injector has the further 
advantage of always being ready for instant use.
The internal construction is simple, consisting es­
sentially of a guiding nozzle for the jet of steam, a 
converging combining tube in which the steam im­
pinges upon the entering water, and a diverging 
delivery tube to transform the energy of the com­
bined jet into static pressure. The action of the 
injector is due to the transfer of the momentum of a 
jet of steam moving with a high velocity to a hollow 
cone of water, drawn into the tubes by the partial 
vacuum caused by condensation. The special con­
struction of the tubes obtains intimate contact be­
tween the steam and water, and almost perfect con­
densation of the steam, with a reduction of the 
transverse area of the combined jet proportional to 
its increase in velocity; the resultant energy of the 
mass enables it to pass through the reduced area 
of the final tube of the apparatus and enter the 
boiler against initial pressure. Its action therefore 
depends not only upon the impact of the jet of steam, 
but upon its efficient and complete condensation, 
which occurs during its passage through the com­
bining tube. At 180 pounds boiler pressure the jet 
must attain a terminal velocity of 163 feet per sec­
ond to enable it to lift the check valve and enter the 
boiler. If the total length of the converging combin­
ing tube is 7V2 inches, the interval of time during 
which the steam may be condensed is only 0.008 of a 
second and the acceleration is 20,000 feet. It is 
therefore obvious that any condition which tends 
to diminish rapid condensation, operates against ef­
ficient mechanical action. An increase in the tem­
perature of the water supply, moisture or superheat 
in the steam, all tend to reduce the proper ratio 
between the weight of the water delivered into the 
boiler, to that of the motive steam.
It is therefore essential that the condition of the 
steam permit instant and complete condensation and 
also that its velocity reach a maximum at the instant 
of impact with the water. Many experiments have 
been made by the writer to determine th.? most effi­
cient shape of diverging steam nozzle and also the
SIRE’S JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
JAMES B. SiPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
at the Pure Food Stores ofNMHB ’B SFMVMRSHR t 6Hn
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East End
§ TECH BARBER SHOP *
o .Wedkd hed BUyCe Gnda” £
^ And where you can alvva3’S get first-class work. £
^ H F. Van Curen, Proprietor, ^
g
 CkWIG WyT FnkBda %&
W. S. BROWN
523 Wood at., PittsburP
*
* GUNS, CUTLERY, ATHLETIC GOODS,$ OF ALL KINDS. A COMPLETE LINE $ OF ICE AND ROLLER SKATES.
Î ARTISTS MATERIAL *
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
I B. K. ELLIOTT COMPANY
b 1ru aixth atreet ( Bessemer BldP.) PittsburP. a
* PICTURE FRAMING ^
% AMATUER DEVELOPING AND PRINTING Q 
CUT FLOWERS %IB. SMITH Z
114 Atwood Street, bet. Fifth and Forbes 3
TECH LUNCH ROOM,
5101 Woodlawn Avenue, next to M. M. C. S. 
Short Orders a Specialty.
MEALS 15c and 20c. 
Confectionery, Tobacco, Etc.
MRS. W. LORENZO.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
terminal velocity of the discharging jet. Results of 
experiments with saturated steam prove that the flow 
is in accord with the well known formula based upon 
adiabatic expansion. The velocity of superheated 
steam is slightly higher as it follows the law of a 
perfect gas until condensation, due to expansion, 
commences; the velocity of the combined jet would 
consequently be increased, but this advantage is over­
balanced by the shorter interval of contact and con­
densation, during which the additional heat in the 
steam must be abstracted. The mechanical efficiency 
is lowered; if there is no loss from radiation, the 
thermo-efficiency will still be 100 per cent To obtain 
good results from an injector with superheated steam, 
it would be necessary to modify the design and pro­
portion of the tubes and nozzle.
The practical effect of superheated steam upon the 
action of an injector is to reduce the maximum ca­
pacity, increase the minimum capacity, and to lower 
the limiting temperature of the water supply with 
which the injector can operate. Further, with high 
pressure and superheat, an inefficiently designed in­
strument is inoperative. It is therefore advantag­
eous and usually practicable to have a special pipe 
to supply the injector with saturated atoam.
APPLIED DESIGN.
The second problem of the Decorators, in design, 
was judged last Friday evening. The subject was 
“The Decoration of the End of a Wooden Bench.” 
Twenty-four drawings were submitted by the stu­
dents in day and night classes. Of this number the 
following received mentions at the hands of the jury 
consisting of Messrs. Hewlett, Ferrand, Campbell 
and Goodwin:
C. Hoffman, Miss Miller, Miss A. M. Shuman, Miss 
M. E. Williams, L. A. Withers, E. S. Hollingsworth, 
J. C. Kilroy, W. Nies, G. A. Weishaupt, J. D. Wilson.
The second Rondu of the year in the Department 
of Architecture came on November 8t.h. At five 
o’clock on that day there were expressed to the 
Beaux Arts Society in New York for juügment the 
following designs submitted by day and night stu­
dents in Architecture:
30 Order Problems.
25 Class B Plan Projects,
11 Projects in Archaeology.
G Class B Esquisses.
2 Class A Esquisses.
The judgment of these problems occurs in New 
York on Thursday, November 19th. Of course, all 
the Architects are hoping to get mentions for their 
work.
i Oe fi '-s* 1
^ne' Best Store
FORBES & ATWOOD STS.
OAKLAND
Special Values in Underwear at •§• 
$ $1.00 and $2.00 a Suit *z ---------------------------- %O Union Suits or Two Piece Garments ^ 
O\0\OS0\O\OSO\O\O\O\O\O\O\O\O%OSOSO\
HAND TU R N E D
COLLARS
3 STEVENSON AND FORBES STREETS « 
g Bel IPhone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main 8
o.bocgSCoCoCocScgSCoCoCoCoCoCococoCoCof
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
ESTABLISHED 1867
DESIGNERS OF SHOES
Penn & Frankstown Aves. 
E. E.
%P\O\Oy>\O%O\O\O\O\O\O\O\O\O\OV3*O\0
¥
£ Successful Student Gatherings are
$ those where Haller’s Ice Cream,
4sCakes, and Candies are served.
§
8
| HALLER’S BAKERY
# 3618 Forbes Avenue Iroquois Block.
* $ vTWTWT'/TVTvWTyvywTVTWTWvVTyTyTyT^

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TA RTAN
4^X*C*X4-O\4*OX4'VX4‘OX4”}\4>OX*OX4<>X4‘vX4-0\04*
* 
« ? * Ö •I* 
«1 * % I4** $ 
g 4* K
BEST EQUIPMENT
Highest 
Grade 
Work
Prompt 
Service
Both Phones
X<*X0*X0*XO*X0*X0*X<&X0+X0*X0*X0*S0*
0X0S0S0\0\0\OS0SO\0X0X0X0\0X0X0\0\0S
A, S. SPALDING & BROS,
The Largest Manufacturers in the 
World of Official Athletic Supplies
FOOT BALL, BASKET BALL
*§P enFrPai mk§nPsi tkow
GYMNASIUM APPARATUS
Spalding’s handsomely illustrated catalogue of all sports contains 
numerous s-ggestions, mailed free anywhere
A. G. SPALDING & BROS. *
0 4!>9 Wood Street Pittsburg, Pa. ^
OXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXvXOXOXOX'OXOXOX
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL,$4,000,000
.SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 41 MILLIONS
\o\oxo\oxo\o\oxov:*\ov>\ov>\«>\o\o\o\o
De ~2T013. -w
that we print more books than any firm 
in the East End ?........................................
X>o "2‘oia. 25133.0-w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf­
lets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine 
Printing ?.......................................................
X)o Tou 3£:23.o-w
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at­
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
cS& 7>0PITSBU7>0SR 
t117=t119 Kirkwood atreet
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
4b4b4b
*
**
**
*
*
*t
*
*
*f
B. & B. |
Newest Waistcoat styles arrived—styles * 
that will be shown at Christmas, $1.00 to 0 
$10.00. *
BOGGS & BUHL *
e
QXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOX
KAERCHER’S DRUG STORE
H. R. SCOTT, Manager 
Confectionery, Cigars, Stationery, Etc.
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
0*0*
&I
*I$0*
0 *8XO*XO*XO*XÖ*%»*Xö*XO-|-XiH*XÖ*XO*XO«i*XO*
4<ö'4<i4<>4*C^.4<'4<';4<>4'O4'O4‘O4‘O4<>4‘04*D4-O4*O*0
* O
¥ so?0
Cor. Forbes & Craig Sts. Pittsburg, Pa.
Phones—Bell, 1456 Schenley; P. & A. 303 Park
0ggI
P§I
'S
*o
*¦o
*0*0/
FToWçrs
«
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select.
The prices are reasonable and con­
sistent with the best quality.
A. W. SMITH1
345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA. j
4b
JHE RITTENHOUSE j
BALL ROOM HAS A 
CUSHIONED FLOOR 
PERFECT G,A DANCING
* * 
* 
* 
* 4b t * 4B 4* 4b_____ 4»
* Kuhns in the Rittenhouse |
•Ib bIe bIe b1b b1b b1b b1b b!• •Xb •Jb
PRIVATE DINING ROOM
FOR CLASS DINNERS 
IS A DREAM
