* CAR N EG I ETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
____________________________¦_________________________VOLUME 64 — NUMBER 26 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1964
Carnival Midway Features 
40 Shakespearian Booths; 
Ferris Wheel Adds To Fun
Can Automation Replace The Brain? 
Scotch ’n Soda’s Answer Is ‘Evnod’
Introducing the Midway! This* 
year the Midway will be bigger ‘ 
and better than ever, with the 
twelve fraternities and the dorms 
each entering in thè booth com­
petition. Also, the sororities will 
again have their booths, which 
.¦^represent the skits to be per­
formed this Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
in the Gym. There will also be 
a big ferris wheel at one end of 
the Midway, WRCT at the other, 
and A Phi O selling refreshments. 
Sounds great, doesn’t it?
Herewith follows the various 
booth themes and a snort descrip­
tion of each:
Sisma Nu has a maze — a laby­
rinth — favorite device of psy- 
*£hulogisis ancient and modern — 
*?a tesi of intelligence and strength 
ol' drjve. This year Sigma Nn 
pictoriuliy traces Amazing Willy 
Shakespeare's admission to Car­
negie Tech through a maze. 
Through tortuous passages with 
bewildering branches, Willy 
strives toward admission or bodily 
rejection. Will he get in? Well, 
.Willy?
Beta Tbeta Pi reveals the ribald 
/.antics of Falstaff Shakespeare’s 
'comic lover of “Merry Wives of 
Windsor.” Spring Carnival en­
thusiasts attempt to warn Lord 
Ford that the wily Falstaff's mak­
ing time with Lady Fove on the 
castle balcony. If they succeed, the 
Lord is alerted, rushes to the res­
cue, and Falstaff meets a watery 
end in the moat.
Theta Xi is using “The Mer­
chant of Venice.” Portia’s. suitor, 
-Antonio, is given a choice of 
’^hree caskets — one silver, one 
gold., and one lead. If he selects 
the casket containing Portia’s por­
trait, he wins her hand in-mar­
riage. No matter which casket is 
selected, yoii win a prize. How 
ever, if you open the correct cas­
ket you win the additional satis­
faction of seeing . “fair Portia's 
counterfeit/' So study your Shake­
speare and find out which cas- 
*ket to select. Antonio was able 
' (continued on page 5)
Admissions 
Plans 3-Day 
Conference
- There will be no Candidates’ 
this year for prospective Car­
negie Tech students. The Admini­
stration has instituted instead a 
program which focuses its atten-tiouon secondary school guidance
counselors. Earl Davis, of the Ad­
missions staff is planning a three- 
day conference to be held on May. 
21-23, when approximately 22 
counselors from all regions of the 
United States will visit the Tech 
, campus. Counselors are selected 
/f<on the basis of the prominence of 
their school, the type of school, 
and and its geographic location. 
During their stay they will be 
given the opportunity to talk with 
faculty members and students, to 
attend classes, and to get the gen­
eral “feel" of Carnegie Tech. Stu­
dents from each of the school’s 
three colleges will be present ait
* casual breakfast discussion with 
(continued on page 2)
Artist's drawing of Carnegie Tech's new administration building.
Girls Entice 
Frosh Attempt 
In Pantv Raid
Incited by either a lack of any­
thing better to do, or perhaps, 
as Dean Ellis put it, “spring le­
ver.” or maybe as a protest against 
the impending tuition raise, a 
small group of highly imaginative 
Carnegie Tech Freshmen planned 
and attempted a panty raid on 
Morewood Gardens. At approxi­
mately 10 p.m. last Thursday eve­
ning, a small group of Frosh 
gathered in front of Scobel Hall. 
Tom Miller, president of the Dorm 
Council, and three of his coun­
cilors attempted to keep order. 
Although only twenty students 
originally went over to Morewood, 
their group snowballed rapidly, 
reaching a peak of over two hun­
dred. The raiders received rein­
forcements from a group of dra- 
mats, led by a grad student, vari­
ous fraternity men, and even a 
group of Pitt students. Tom Mil­
ler, Dean Ellis and Brown, aided 
by the Security Police managed 
somehow to keep the students 
across the street. The girls, how­
ever, apparently disapproved of 
these measures, because they 
were inciting the boys to action 
by throwing various articles of 
lingerie out the windows, lower­
ing ropes, and other pleasant­
ries. Two attempts were made at 
entering E Tower, but were 
stopped by the above-mentioned 
administrators before anything in­
teresting developed. Due to an un­
fortunate (or fortunate, depend­
ing on how you look at it) lack 
of organization, the raiders tend­
ed to disperse. At about two 
o’clock the remaining 70 raiders 
returned, discouraged, to their 
dorms.
Tech Lost in Darkness 
As Power Fails Friday
(See Photos Face 6)
Last Friday at 6:25 p.m., a two-and-a-half foot power 
conduit behind Engineering and Science Hall snapped and 
tugged main power lines out of the earth for several 
hundred yards.The campus was left completely dark after the break——----------------------------------------:-------?occurred on the south side of
^ % j Engineering Hall where they areCarnival 
Announces 
Activities
Last minute plans are now be­
ing made for all the activities of 
Spring Carnival Weekend. There’s 
still time to enter the Talent Jam­
boree. Contact Justin Polulack 
(682-9252) if you’re interested— 
especially you girls.
Egg toss and plank joust­
ing are being handled by 
Frenchy Langlois (632-1474) this 
year. Any group who wants to 
get messy in two easy lessons 
contact him before April 29.
Nancy Harvey (682-8824) is or­
ganizing the Queen presentations 
and sorority relays. The former 
will take place this Friday, April 
24, at 4:30 P.M. in the Gym. Bal­
loting for the Queen will be next 
Monday at various places on cam­
pus. Sororities who want to be 
relayed should contact her before 
April 29.
Anyone interested in entering a 
Jab buggy in the Sweepstakes 
contact Bill Faircloth (682-9211 
immediately, if not sooner.
Tickets are now on sale at var­
ious spots on campus, in the 
dorins (counselors), and in the 
fraternities. Cost is $5.50, which 
admits one couple to all the ev­
ents of Friday and Saturday. Get 
(continued on page 3)
doing excavation work for a two- 
story -addition to the physics de­
partment.
Power lines were severed to 
GSIA, the Fine Arts building, 
Skibo, Engineering and Science 
Hall, the. Hunt Library, Admini­
stration Hall, and the men’s dor­
mitories.
The reason for the failure was 
blamed on workmen who „had 
driven trucks over a concrete housing for the conduit, which 
because of the excavation work 
was unsupported below. •"
Crews were immediately called 
in from the Duquesne Power and 
Light Company to repair the dam­
age. Beginning work late Friday 
evening, the crews worked fev­
erishly through the week-end un-r 
til early Monday morning, when 
power was restored. They laid out 
the wires on the E & S and Fine 
Arts lawns in an- effort to trace 
and match the lines.
Although most of the lines have 
not been reconnected, some esti­
mate that it will take about a 
month to make complete repairs 
in the power set-up.
While they worked, emergency 
lighting, which by Pennsylvania 
state law is required in all public 
buildings, was put into use where 
it existed.
Fraternity houses over the 
week-end were packed with 
freshman pledges and actives, as 
they sought light in the frater­
nity complex across Forbes Street 
which was unaffected by the 
power break.
?. On Monday evening, .April 27»
Scotch, ’n Soda will open its 
nual production, EVNOD. Each 
year Scotch 'n Soda presents an 
original musical comedy. All.dia­
logue, lyrics, and . music is writ­
ten by Carnegie students. The en­
tire cast and crew is comprised 
of students who dedicate long 
hours from already tight sched­
ules. The all night crews, copy 
sessions; and script-polishing ses­
sions have this year produced 
EVNOD.
Evnod is a computor; EVNOD 
is the story of what happens when 
the brokerage firm of Dalrymple, 
Heater, O’Malley and Smith hires 
a computer expert to build a com­
puter that handles the purchases 
and sales of negotiable securities. 
The. computer p l a y s the stock 
market, money rolls in, and all 
is well for a while.
But the show would be much 
too short that way, so, problem? 
arise. Problems creep in among 
the office staff, between the of­
fice staff and Evnod, and even in 
Evnod himself. Himself? Of course 
Evnod is human; ask any Scaife 
Hall inhabitant. Thus the show 
concerns itself with a two-phase problem: will automation replace 
humans in the business world 
and are computer geniuses really 
more -human ' than their compu­
ters?
In spile of the serious satire 
in EVNOD, the show has IS ex­
cellent musical numbers. The mu­
sic this year is considered to be 
the best in several years. It is 
due mostly to the efforts of musi­
cal directors Denny Kahle and 
Sherman Himelblau, who paid at-? 
tention to styles ranging from 
neo-Beatle . tO‘ Copland. Chore- 
graphically, the dances range front 
(contimied from page 6)
Festival in Arts 
Features 117 
Divisions
The Third Annual Carnegie 
Awards Festival in music, drama, 
and dance, sponsored by the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, Carnegie Tech, 
will be held on Friday and Sat­
urday, April 24 and 25, on the 
Tech campus, and will feature 
1,315 participants.
The Festival will feature 117 
classes of competition and wilt 
include a special division for 
schools in orchestra, band and 
vocal ensemble; as well as sec­
tions for voice and instrumental 
soloists, ensembles, vocal chorus, 
church chorus, drama, and dance. 
The purpose of the two-day event 
is to foster artistic advancement 
through performance, evaluate 
performance, and recognize and 
reward outstanding performance. 
Class sections will be held for 
all age groups. Winners will be 
honored at the Carnegie Awards 
Festival Concert to be held on 
Tuesday, May 19, at 8:00 p.m. 
in Carnegie Music Hall.
The entire festival is open to 
the public and there is no ad­mission charge.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 22, 1964
The
Delphic
Oracle
Just as the Globe Theatre was 
William Shakespeare’s solution to 
the problem of effectively present­
ing his plays, an abstraction of 
this unique playhouse is Kappa 
Sigma’s solution to the problem 
of comprehensively expressing thè 
Carnival theme. The greatest char­
acters from the Greatest Shakes 
make their entrances onto the 
stage to bow in gratitude for the 
resounding applause arid the coins 
thrown stagewardby the midway 
crowds.
Churchill Valley Country Club 
•was the scene of Delta Upsilon's 
Sweetheart Formal, Saturday, 
April. 11. The evening was high­
lighted by the announcement of 
DU’s 1964 Sweetheart, Sue Anne 
Steiner, who was presented with 
the DU sweetheart pin and a bou­
quet of roses .The Pledges of Delta Tau Delta 
will hold their spring Pledge Party 
April 25. The theme is “HELL’V— 
and that is all they'll tell us about 
it.
This Saturday, April 25, 
there will be a car smash, spon­
sored by Beta Theta Pi. The car, 
whjch used to belong to Jack 
Gr.osko and John Heierman will 
be smashed by anyone who wants 
to show off their physical prowess 
to the rest of the campus. Every­
one is invited and you are en­
couraged to bring all of your 
friends.
The dirty work will be done 
by a twelve pound sledge hammer 
which the Beta's will provide. 
Those wishing to participate will 
please bring 25 cents to entitle 
them to 3 swings of the sledge at 
any part of the car that they wish.
The location will be announced 
later this week on posters around 
campus, and all proceeds will be 
given to Campus Chest for SAM 
for UMOC.
Plans 3'Day
Conference
(continued from page 1) 
the counselors, the deans of the 
colleges, and the admissions staff. 
Three selected students will for­mally describe “Carnegie Tech as 
we see it.”'This program is expected to 
prove much more beneficial than 
Candidates’ Day. To quote Mr. 
Davis, “Candidates’ Day was 
pleasant and interesting but at­
tended mainly by local students, 
who could have visited the cam­
pus independently.5' This past fis­
cal year approximately 1500 pros­
pective undergraduates had inter­
views on campus. By inviting the 
college advisors themselves, the 
administration hopes to make 
Carnegie Tech better known in 
order to attract more applicants 
in futureyears. Such a program 
has proved highly successful at 
numerous other schools. *
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY! l*&rn Folk Guitar
Fred Albitz — Featured at the Casbah and many other Pittsburgh spots — 
and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood — is giving folk guitar les
For rent — second floor room with ad­joining bath, community kitchen, park­ing. On Baum Blvd. near Aiken, walking distance to Tech. Call 661-9911.
parking no problem. Call 521-2497 after
Wanted — 1 bedroom apartment
Hovlng to Europe: Miscellaneous lorsale: air conditioner, TV Zenith portable, Radio amplified, 2 tape recorders, mixer, filter, loudspeaker, etc., etc. Leave ^jpiessage 621-4030.
SN Holds Annual Auction for 
Campus Chest; Buy a Sigma Nu
—Piloto by JMon owoits Sigma Nu auction.
This Saturday the ‘ brothers of 
Sigma Nu will have their An­
nual Homan Slave Auctions at 1 
P.M. on the Sigma Nu lawn. The 
goal of the auction is to raise 
money for Sigma Nu’s U.M.O.C. 
candidate “SUPERSQUEAKS.”
Over sixty brothers will be 
“sold*’ to the highest bidders, who 
then get their services for a maxi­
mum time of two hours. The 
sieves can do such useful duties 
as wash cars, shine shoes, wax 
floors, iron clothes, drive down­
town in their cars and many 
more.
So if you want a slave for your 
very own, (for two hours any­
way) come early and beat the 
crowd. The Delta Delta Delta 
Sorority will provide both enter­
tainment and refreshments. The 
picture above shows you just 
what you can get, if you’re a high 
bidder.
CARN
UGH!
EGIIS ETCUOF
Men . . . when you want to 
express yourself in a tangible way ..... why not get her a College Ring with either a simulated ruby, or blue spirel stone at $8.00 ... or a Charm at $4.75 . . .
We have those perennial fav­orites in good supply . . . Charms with C. I. T. Seal in Sterling Silver or Gold Filled . . . at $1.95.
A recent arrival that sure to please . . . Scotsman Charms in Sterling Silver or Gold Fil­led ... at $1.49.
SENIORS . . . don’t forget to come in for your Degree Ring . . . a good supply in stock . . . 
no waiting,. . .
GHLHYHMIIBEYIOF
Jewelry subject
+ **%+ "A BIZARRE LOVE AFFAIR"
-Wanda Halt, Daily Neui*
“AN ABSORBING AND CHILLING FILM! SUSPENSEFUL, 
MACABRE! A triumph for Mr. Mattsson, tfia director. 
A FINE PSYCHOLOGICAL MELODRAMA!”—Judith Crist, Herald Tribune
“THE DOLL' IS CONVINCING EVIDENCE THAT A NEW 
CINEMATIC GENIUS HAS EMERGED IN SWEDEN. ARNE 
MATTSSON IS A MASTER OF AN IMAGINATIVE CAMERA, 
WITH AN INSIGHT INTO WARPED LIVES!”
—A Uon Cook, World
ORIGINAL UNCUT SWEDISH VERSION
thedoll
BANNED IN ENGLAND
2nd Great Week'Guild MURRAY AT BEACON SQ.HIU.
BULLETINBOARD
Modern Dance
A concert of modern dance, di­
rected by Joanna Gewertz and 
performed on Wednesday evening, 
April 22 at 8 p.m. in the Fine 
Arts Theatre. The program con­
sists of works by the students and 
Miss Gewertz. Music for the pro­
gram is under the direction of 
Thomas Witt, a sophomore in the 
Department of Music.
Scimitars
Scimitars society would like to 
announce the followihg members 
of the freshmen class that it has 
seletcted for membership: David 
Altman, Peter Bair, M&rion Bau­
man, K i m Cassady, Thomas 
Clements, Robert Glaubinger 
Jeffery Kalin, David Kifer, Rich­
ard Londergan, Joseph Nirschl, 
Joseph Orens, David Simons, and 
Frank Vigliotti.
Fellowship
The Continental Grain Coir^v 
pany will award four gradual?* 
fellowships, three in business ad­
ministration and one in food re­
search, to graduating seniors. 
Further information may be ob­
tained from Mr. Jones in the Dean 
of Men’s office.
LEWIS t
Sales - Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
WALLYS
Campus-Favored
MEN 
HUSH-PUPPIES LOAFERSWELLINGTON BOOTS FLORSHEIM
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
- SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
... on d ...
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
CRAFT AVE. THEATER
OPENS SATURDAY, APRIL 25lh 
William Shakespeare’s
Sun.-Tues.-Wed. at 7:30Thurs.-Fri.-Sat. at 8:30
THEATER UPSTAIRS
HELEN WAYNE RAUH 
— IN —“OH DAD, POOR DAD"
Seats $1.50 Sat. $2.00
HAMLET ST. THEATER
BERT CARR
— in —
‘NAUGHTY NIFTIES”
A MUSICAL!
All Tickets $2.00
Seats $1.50 Sat. $2.00 Tnes.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30 
Tickets on Sale at Pitt Book Center 
Reservations 621*4445

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 22, IM« — CARNEGIE TARTAN — ran !
UMOC Candidates Arrive on Campus
Russ Gia.mbelluca Lester Gzortch Harris the Hide
u:'
Crude Carl
Bob the BeastRank TranqSuper Squeaks Quaddley Yo-Yo Traumatic TomSchollSam
Gad, are they UGLY! These ugly men are obviously 
the ugliest Tech has seen in years. They are: Bob the Beast 
— Beta Sigma Rho, Crude Carl — Tau Delta Phi, Gasp — 
Mens’ Dorm Council, Harris the Hide — Sigma Kappa and 
V iPheta Xi, Harry Bovik — Die Wasserspielerbeobachtergesell- 
^schaft, Lestor Gzortch — Pi Kappa 
Alpha, Quaddley Yo-Yo — Chi 
Omega, Ranlc Tranq — Kappa 
Alpha Theta and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Russ Giambelluca — Al­
pha Tau Omega, Sam — Beta 
Theta Pi, Scholl — Kappa Kappa 
Gamma and Kappa Sigma, Super 
Squeaks — Delta Delta Delta and 
Sigma Nu, Traumatic Tom—Delta 
Tau Delta, Ugly Duck — Phi 
Kappa Theta.
I Grads Win
ij Fellowships
I» Seven, graduate students of Car­
negie Tech have received co-op- 
jj erative graduate fellowships from 
./•¿rfce National Science Foundation 
| for the academic year 1964-65. 
j They are: Joan Biordi (chem- 
j isiry, Glenn Julian (physics), Ed- 
| ward Kramer (metallurgical en­
gineering), James Layland, Mar­
tin Lichenslein, David Thompson, 
end Alan Washburn (electrical en 
gineering).
National Science Foundation Co­
operative Fellowships are awarded 
on the basis of ability to citizens 
of the United States who have 
demonstrated ability and special 
aptitude for advanced training in 
the sciences. The award provides 
for a basic twelve-month stipend 
of $2400.
$240.00
is all It costs to fly by jet to Europe 
and back. That is, 11 you purchase a 
Volkswagen and apply the savings of 
al»out $159.00 — compared with the 
price la Pittsburgh — towards the 
cost of the air fore. Sounds great? It 
IS great. Go on your own, or join 
us on M. W. Motors Tour, leave on 
August 4, Teturn In time for fall term. 
For more information call Mr. Paul 
Muxfeldt at M. W. Motors and ask 
for tl\6 March Issue o£ Bee*l« Talk 
and Tourist Delivery information.
Today's Best Buy:
*6Z VW St at ion wagon 
fully equipped, lihe new, 
all white
$1295
M. W. MOTORS
731 Huiler St. Boute 9, Etna
Pittsburgh, S3 
ST. 1-5071 HU. 6-1810
This year sponsoring organiza­
tions have gone to great lengths 
to help insure the posterity of 
their ugly man. Sigma Nu will 
have a Slave Sale (against the 
expressed wishes of A. Lincoln) 
in which one may bid for the 
ownership for one afternoon of 
any one of sixty of the Zoo’s in­
mates. Sigma Alpha Epsilon is raffling off dates with the choicest 
chicks in Morewood. Beta Theta 
Pi is having a gala Car Smash. 
Here’s your chance to bash in the 
roof of a hunk of Detroit iron, 
three smashes for a quarter, come 
one, come all! These are just a
few of the possibilities to raised- 
money for. UMOC and. Campus’ 
Chest.
The voting for the King of the 
Uglies will be held next Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs­
day from 9:30 to 4:30 in front of 
the Hunt Library and Skibo. You 
can definitely buy votes at lc and 
ballot box stuffing is encouraged. 
Join in the fun and enthusiasm 
of the Ugliest UMOC ever.
Carnival 
Activities
(continued from page 1) 
yours now, because this is going 
to be the Best Spring Carnival 
Ever.
Tommy Payne has a six-piece 
orchestra plus a vocalist who will 
entertain the crowd from 9:00 to 
10:30 P.M. on Saturday, May 2. 
Tony Garland, comedian, will 
perform until about 11:00 P.M. 
And then, the Modern Flamingos 
will make the place really swing 
until awards are given out at midnight. And, if the weather 
permits, the dance will be out­
doors under the stars.
And don’t forget Scotch ’n Soda, 
which opens Monday, April 27 
and closes Thursday evening.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
• MUSTARD• RELISH• ONION• PICKLE
• MAYONNAISE• SAUERKRAUT• CHILE• KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
"" SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDEE — $1.50)
621-7388 682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c-PIZZA (perçut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM OBDEB — $1.50)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 621-7388 — ¿82-8466
EGAD! 
UMOC is Here
from our University Shop 
LIGHTWEIGHT ODD JACKETS
for wear right into Summer
(shown) Bold Striping oj Navy on While in Cool ArneP^ Triacetate and Cotton Blend, $37. JO j in Solid Shades oj Blue, Green or_Taiif$35
Navy Orion® Acrylic and WodfBlazersTt J0 
Natural or Red Datron^Polyestef: and Flax Jacketsf$^2.S0(c
Striped Cotton Seersucker Odd Jacke(s^$27.50
. Hand-woven Cotton India Madras' ’ Jackets, $39.SO
And a wide choice oj Odd Trousers, jrom $11 , 
¦sruusHiBin*
Bgei« ¿r^oyd' ftimtetUnga,
600 SMITH FIELD STREET'*’ MELLON SQUARE;
) PITTSBURGH* PA. 1S222.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO • SAN FRANCISCO • LOS ANCELEtf

---------------------------------------------------

T»ge 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, Apri] tt, 1M4
Where The Extra Money Will Go
Raising tuition is one decision in which 
the student has no part. Even his opinion is 
not solicited. However, realizing that we 
should be informed of the reasons behind 
the recent decision, the administration dis­
cussed the matter with student representa­
tives.
Students supposedly pay 50% of the cost 
©f the educational budget. The money is ap­
propriated to seven items:
1. Instruction — The salaries of the staff 
(deans, secretaries, professors, etc.) and the 
cost of classroom supplies are by far the 
Jargest items.
< 2. Administration — This items includes
such student services as athletics and stu­
dent activities and comprises the second 
largest expenditure. -3. Operation and Maintenance - - It has 
been estimated that it costs $33,000 to $35,000 
in electric power to run the library for a 
year. Carnegie Tech also spends about 
$12,000 per year in replacing electric light 
bulbs. Although this item is the third largest 
expenditure, Carnegie is supposedly noted 
in Pittsburgh for its efficiency in running 
buildings. (They must make it up by cutting 
salaries.)
4. Student Aid — One-fourth of all under­
graduate aid is appropriated from this bud­
get. This item does not include loans made to 
students.
: 5. Auxiliary Services — This item in­
cludes residence halls, food services, the 
book store, office services, etc.
6. The Library
7. Research
Probably the biggest change effected by 
the tuition increase will be faculty salaries, 
though no across-the-board increase is ex­
pected soon.
Carnegie Tech is a leader in diverting 
more money to professorships to attract top 
men and raising faculty salaries to keep 
good men on this campus. In this position, 
we are highly competitive with such schools 
as M.I.T., CalTech, and the University of 
Chicago. Between now and 1972, the college 
population will double. It will be increasing­
ly difficult to get and hold Ph. D’s for this 
coming crowd. To face the extreme com­
petition for teachers that will arsie within 
the next five years, Carnegie Tech is plan­
ning to divert more money to faculty salar­
ies and create opportunities for new young 
Ph. D.’s.
Another area in which Carnegie Tech is 
progressing is research. However, the 
amount allocated toward research is not
Readers Write
likely to go much higher than it is at pre­
sent. We are saturated with projects now, 
and do not have the room nor the graduate 
students to accept more. We receive our 
share of government fundamental research. 
It should be kept in mind, however, that 
Carnegie Tech does not compete for the 
same research dollar as other schools who 
compete for developmental rather than 
fundamental research. For example, Car­
negie does not want the same research that 
would be accepted at M.I.T.’s Lincoln Lab­
oratory, CalTech’s Jet Propulsion Labora­
tory, or the University of Chicago’s Argonne 
National Laboratory. Even the nuclear re­
search at Saxonburg is considered funda­
mental.
Carnegie will only accept research that 
meets three criteria:
1. A professor must request it.
2. Graduate students must be able to re­
ceive aid from it.
3. It must offer an opportunity for a grad­
uate thesis.
In this light, Carnegie joined in the form­
ation of the MPC Corporatoin. (Mellon-Pitt- 
’Carnegie) which was founded exclusively to 
bring research projects to the Pittsburgh 
area.At the present, it is impossible to relate 
any one item to the tuition rise, but faculty 
salaries is a strong point. Carnegie Tech will 
continue to attract the best men to this 
campus and expand our graduate and re­
search programs in the next ten years.* M.L.S.
The following is a list comparing tuition 
at major women’s colleges to that of Car­
negie. All figures are for the academic year 
1963-1964 except those marked * which are 
for the 1964-65 year.
Bryn Mawr ...................................1,550
Chatham ......................................*1,600
Douglass (state) .................................. 500
Goucher ........................................*1,500
Hood .........................................1,200
Mount Holyoke ......................... 1,600
Radcliffe ....................................*1,760
Sarah Lawrence ......................... 2,020
Skidmore ................................... *1,700
Smith ..............................— ... 1,700
Vassar ....................................... 1,500
Citizen Raises Citizenship Query
Reader Praises " . ===
“The Thinker” Carnival Schedule
Editor, the Tartan:
It is inspiring to discover that, 
in this age of general apathy, 
there are those students who ac­
tually take time out from their 
individual travails and think.
The student body, the faculty, 
and administration of Carnegie 
can be proud of the presence of 
Mr. Richard (C) Anderson in 
our midst. Mr. Anderson not only 
thinks, he writes.
A double threat, to be sure;
Mr. Anderson ‘‘thinks” it 
would be wise for the Negro to 
understand himself before having 
the Civil Rights Law imposed on 
the American citizen. Evidently, 
the terms “Negro” and “Ameri­
can citizen” are somewhat di­
verse.
And certainly, we should think 
before we let the Negro impose a 
law on the rest of us English, 
German, Scandanavian, Czech, 
Slavic, Oriental, Catholic, Pro­
testant, Jewish Americans which 
would assure him rights equal to us citizens.
1 think Mr. Anderson thinks nks.
Craig Schiller ('67)
TENTATIVE WEEK-END SCHEDULE 
MON. - THURS. 8:30-4:30 UMOC voting 
MON. - WED. 8:30 p.m. Scotch ‘n’ Soda 
THURSDAY, APRIL 30
4:30 p.m. — Midway opens, first booth judging 
8:30 — Scotch ‘n’ Soda 
9:00 — Final booth judging 
12:00 — Midway closes 
FRIDAY, MAY 1
7:30 a.m.. — Buggy design judging 
10:00 — Sweepstakes races — Schenley Park 
12:00 noon — Midway opens
1:00 p.m. — Coronation and calls (Fine Arts lawn)2:30 — Eggtoss 
2:00 — Sorority relays
3:00 — “Talent Jamboree” — Skibo Ballroom 
9:00 — The Four Preps — Gym 
12:00 — Midway Closes 
SATURDAY, MAY 2
10:00 a.m. — Sweepstakes finals — Schenley Park 12:00 — Midway opens 
2:00 p.m. — Plank joust behind Morewood 
9:00 — Dance Outside, If weather permits, or in 
Skibo Ballroom 
9:00 - 10:30 — Tony Powell Orchestra 
10:30 - 11:00 — Tony Garland, Comedian 
11:00 - ? — The Modern Flamingos 
12:00 — Trophies awarded 
12:00 — Midway closes 
SUNDAY, MAY 3
3:00 a.m. — Morewood Curfew
2:00 - 5:00 p.m. — Open House In All Dorms
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Tuition And A.H.
Last Wednesday the Tartan carried the announcement 
that in 1965 tuition at Tech will be $850 per semester. When 
compared with the tuition of $500 per semester just four 
years ago such a steep rate of increase is bound to bring 
forth protests. Should it?
Every year more persons apply to colleges for admis­
sion (so magazines say anyway); every year it gets harder 
to get in. Could not tuition increases be used as a rationing 
device? Those students able to pay the increase, but unwill- $ 
ing to, will choose to go elsewhere, giving those applicants 
who feel it is worthwhile to pay the increased fees a better 
chance to get in. In this way total satisfaction is increased 
(some decrease on the part of the student choosing to go 
elsewhere, but a greater increase — assuming this can be 
measured in monetary terms — by the. student paying the 
increase). The monetary assumption seems justified: If two 
persons are equally able to pay, but make different choices 
because of a change in fees, is it not reasonable to explain 
this decision as it has been explained above?
It should be noted that this analysis does not apply to V- 
students who are not able to pay or those already in school.
It can be hoped that it will be no harder for a worthy 
student to get a scholarship furnishing the necessary part 
of his expenses in the future than it was in the past; in 
fact, perhaps some of the increased tuition can be used to 
make them easier to get.
Such an equitable solution will probably not be made 
for students already committed to Carnegie Tech — those in 
the process of getting an education. They may not have ex­
pected to have their expenses increased so rapidly. The 
equitable solution would seem to be to make the increase 
payable only by new students. But perhaps this is not fair 
either: The school says its expenses have increased, and 
there is no reason to think otherwise — it is getting harder 
to buy professors, etc. If all students did not p^y the same 
tuition, not only would there be discrimination, but some 
students would be getting something for nothingl All this 
points again to the rationing system described above: Stu­
dents choose whether to pay for “good” professors when 
the increased demand for them sends salaries up.
On another subject, it is my opinion that whoever made . 
the decision about the location of the new A.H. — at the 
front of the cut as near as I can tell — made a good choice.
Of course, this will break up the cut, but taking conven­
ience and aesthetic considerations into account, it is hard 
to think of a better location. It would be nice, though, if 
the land behind the present A.H. could have been added to 
the campus. This would allow for expansion without the 
new buildings crowding grass off the campus. But you 
can’t have everything.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CANNCOIENSTITUTB OF TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor .................................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor .............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager................................Michael McCoy
News Editor ........................................ Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ..............................Alma Rock
Features Editor......................................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor ...........................................Drew Lippay
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...........................Eric FeldmannSecretary Editor ..................................   .Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ..................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, torbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editcr-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa,
Advisory Board: John Blue, Frank Brady, Charles Ho Fook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva, Martha Siegel.
^L°b £ri\z- J?1°b Cr,scom- EHsa Parker, Gretchen Smith.Be-Wrlte SlalT: Mark Ferdman, Callie Gillcland. Morris Goldstein.
Features SlalT: Susan Attinson, Leslie Buchman, Becky Emerson, MirJam Gillespie, Jane Keeler. Sharon Shuttleworth, Nancy Cameron.
fiporU staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Biduja, Dick Elder, A1 Green. Bill Hartlep, Chris Macosko.
Business Staff; Eric Feldman. George Merrlman, Dick Moore.Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder. Drew Lippay. Beverely Philotsky. Ted 
Pierce, Barbara Thornton, Merylu Recco, Sharon Shuttleworth. Dave Klein.
C0Pyc^ilB:r."ele".S“ll:i- Barbara Brown. Mike Greenwalt, Verna Ream, Ginny SaJko, Ginny Uljss, Lorraine Vinograd, Rick Shriner, Ed Checly.
Secretarial Hazel Bakarlan. Eolh Canen, Janls Cummings, Pat Hartman,Carol Karnell, Karen Kutner. Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vino- graa, Carol Young.
Circulation SlalT: George Kail. J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin.

---------------------------------------------------

WeflMsday, April 22,1964 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Tmt* •
Carnival Midway 
Features Booths
(continued from page 1)
¦jo make the correct choice. Are
t you?
At the Dorm booth, see the 
peasant horde slaughtered. See 
King and Mrs. Macbeth shud­
der under the violent assault of 
their castle. Visitors to the booth 
will assist in the storming of 
Dunisinane.
“All the world’s a stage,” and 
phi Kappa Theta presents the 
world — the world in the form 
^ vof a twelve-foot globe — out- 
lined as it was known in the. time 
of Shakespeare. The revolving 
globe encloses an Elizabethan 
stage, upon which players strut 
and fret their parts in the cus­
tomary manner. The actors may 
be pelted with the traditional of­
fering of overripe fruit by en­
thusiastic patrons. A suitable re­
ward will be presented for di­
rect hits.
$ Pi Kappa Alpha will let it be 
known that upon the Skibo heath, 
where fair is foul and foul is fair, 
Hecate and her graymalkin do 
gather at the Booth to bestow 
their favors upon Macbeth and 
all other worthy oncomers.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon's “Comedy 
of Errors” gives everyone a chance 
to create their own colorful 
Shakespearean characters. .Beat 
^ *the Bard’s incomparable imagina- 
“ lion and laugh at the sometimes 
hilarious results. Watch four of the 
Great Shakespeare’s famous per- 
sonnages — Puck, Juliet, Fal- 
stafF, and Julius Caesar — take 
on new forms and win a souvenir 
of Spring Carnival for successful efforts.
Tau Delta Phi thinks that at 
times Billy S; ;,is a very punny 
man. They’re getting even: “To 
Bee or not to Bee?” Come on 
over and see if you can pick the 
Bee Bill was writing about.
Delta Tau Delta invites every­
one to “Guess the Ghost.” Par­
ticipants will step up to banquet 
table in Macbeth’s dining hall, 
and be challenged to determine 
where Banquo’s ghost will make 
its next appearance in the hall. 
A quick eye and a firm hand can 
make anyone a winner.
Just as the Globe Theatre was 
William Shakespeare's solution to 
the problem of effectively pre­
senting his plays, an abstraction 
of this unique playhouse is Kappa 
Sigma's solution to the problem 
of comprehensively expressing the 
Carnival theme. The greatest 
characters from the Greatest 
Shakes make their entrances on­
to the stage to bow in gratitude 
for the resounding applause and 
the coins thrown stageward by 
the Midway crowds.
The rats will be running again 
this year at Delta Upsilon. Wil­
liam Shakespeare will provide the 
setting with his “Taming, of the 
Shrew,” giving everyone a chance 
to tame a DU shrew.
Alpha Tau Omega is utilizing 
the various Shakespearean Come­
dies as their theme.
Beta Sigma Rho attempts to de­pict the Roman forum, where 
Caesar meets his fate. However 
Caesar adds a new and unexpect­
ed twist as he seeks his revenge 
on the unsuspecting Brutus.
Your Man
In Congress
by Tim Hiss
Last Wednesday’s beer and pretzels meeting of the Stu­
dent Congress Committee Chairmen began at 4:30 with a 
brisk round of bottle cap removing and glass filling. Since 
the next meeting of Congress will not be until April 29, it 
was suggested that the chairmen prepare reports on their 
committee's work to give to the new chairmen.
Almost immediately the administration’s latest finan­
cial decision came up for discussion. It was pointed out 
that one school, whose name wasn’t mentioned, applies its 
tuition raises only to the entering freshmen and succes­
sive classes. This allows the student to plan his finances 
for his education without worrying about unexpected tui­
tion rises.
In connection with this controversial issue, R. D. Strath- 
rneyer, vice president of business affairs for Carnegie Tech, 
will speak at the April 29 meeting of Congress in an at­
tempt to clarify the issue. The entire student body is 
invited to attend what should turn out to be a most inter­
esting meeting.
During the week Tom Pyke received a letter from the 
-2 student congress at Penn State, They are sponsoring a 
motion to be presented to the State Legislature to repeal 
the 5% sales tax on text books. Last year, when the sales 
tax was still 4%, there was no tax on text books. The tax 
was instituted along with the increase to 5%. The motion 
will be introduced at the next Congress meeting.
The latest news on Spring Carnival is interesting. A 
New York film company which distributes to television 
stations and movie theaters will be filming the buggy 
races and possibly other events of Spring Carnival.
^ Dick Elder has been interviewing members of the ad­
ministration and faculty and has not yet found any opposi­
tion to the proposal to change the calendar to have first 
semester finals before the Christmas vacation. The plan 
does not involve switching to a quarterly or trimester 
plan. However, at the price of starting classes the Wed­
nesday after Labor Day, it would be possible to end the 
school year in early May.
Committee heads, after another round of beer and 
") pretzels, were adjourned.
— Photo by A1 Huffman
Repairman works on emergency cable to try 
Q. restore electricity to campus buildings 
and men's dormitories.
— Photo by Walter GraymanBroken cable carrying conduit lays scattered on the hillside; evacuation tor the new addi­tion to E&S undermined the conduit causing 
it to break. is« stoiy me i>
W"W.
- --4M-,, H
Meet Gerald Bourland
c U "
Ca
Computer Systems Associate at WE
Gerald Bourland, B.S., Central Missouri State 
College, ’61, picked Western Electric because it 
offered many interesting and challenging oppor­
tunities in his favorite fields—automation and data 
processing. Gerald’s work here consists of writing, 
.testing and documenting computer programs — 
each one a different and exacting assignment.
Also of great interest to Gerald when he joined 
Western were the Company’s numerous manage­
ment courses and paid Tuition Refund Plan. He 
knows, too, that we'll need to fill thousands of su­
pervisory positions within the next few years. And 
he’s getting the solid experience needed to qualify.
Right now, Gerald is working on a verification 
sub-system for maintaining production control. It 
consists of seven distinct computer programs that
operate as one routine which performs the func­
tion of tying together and verifying forecasted with 
actual customer orders.
If you, like Gerald Bourland, set the highest 
standards for yourself, enjoy a challenge, and have 
the qualifications we’re looking for—let’s talk! 
Opportunities for fast-moving careers exist now tor 
liberal arts, physical science and business majors, 
as.well as for electrical, mechanical and industrial 
engineers. For more detailed information, get your 
copy of the Western Electric Career Opportunities 
booklet from your Placement Officer. Or write: 
Western Electric Company, Room 6405, 222 
Broadway, New York 38, N. Y. And be sure to 
arrange for a personal interview when the Bell Sys­
tem recruiting team visits your campus.
Western Electric MANUFACTURING AND SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SYSTEM 
AH EQUAL OPPORTUNITY CHPLOYEH
principal manufacturing locations (n 13 cfti 
Engineering Research Center. Princeton, fvm

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April it, 19«
S'nS east relaxes during break.
S V S Casts 
New Male Lead
S'nS players rehears* for opening night. _ Artits by j¡m pawiey
Craig Schiller
Scotch and Soda wishes to an­
nounce that Craig Schiller, a 
freshman Graphic Arts major, has 
been cast as Bud Burns in their 
current production "Evnod.” A 
week ago, when the part of the 
second male lead fell vacant, 
Craig was cast as the playboy of 
the office staff. Craig says that he 
is very excited, about “Evnod,” his 
new lead part, and Scotch and 
Soda.
Scotch ’n Soda’s 
Answer is “Evnod
(continued from page I) 
neo-primitive to later Radio City 
Music Hall.The doors open at 7:45 and seat­
ing on a first come, first serve 
basis begins; the curtains will 
rise at 8:30, Monday through 
Thursday nights. Tickets are on 
sale in front of Skibo and in Ad­
ministration Hall throughout this 
week. Any remaining tickets will 
be sold at the door.
TYPING
FAST • EFFICIENT 
• REASONABLE •
Term Papers — Theses — Dis­sertations — Punctuations — Spelling — Grammar Correct-
" AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used Exclusively
FURNITURE
to 40% off
9 x 12 RUGS 
hol Q. hfr
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.
Next to Shady6ide Post Office 
621-1025 
BUa 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
THE VflLO HOT-LINE SUSPENSE COMEDY!
, Y'?/ '***
if Why did U.S. H-Bombers attack Russia?4r Where was the Red Premier when the hot-line rang?
•fa Why did Dr. Strangelove want ten women for each man?if Why did U.S. Paratroopers invade their own base?
it Why did the fate of the world hang on a Coca-Cola machine?
i?eterSÂs-GeorieîC;Scôtt4 -/i
^ Je^StanlÄuhrick’s^M, '*\* \ \
or. How l leariid To Stop Worryino And LoveThe Bomb
Sterling Hayden Keenan Wynn Slim Pickens^^^^Sfanley Kubrick, Peter George 6 Teny Southern Stanley Kubrick^nSSMMs»;
FORVM
THEATRE
SQUIRREL HILLNow Showing! CAII™AY
DOWNTOWN

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 22, 1964 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Face 7
Tech Golfers Hold 
2-2 Season Record
Carnegie Tech’s varsity golf team, bolstered by three 
returning lettermen from last year, two promising Freshmen, 
and the return of the golf team’s Most Valuable Player of 
the 1961-1962 season, has now completed 4 dual matches 
with a 2-2 record. Matches completed thus far have been ith Waynesburg, St. Vincent,#-----------------------------------------------—_
Western Reserve, and Washington 
* & Jefferson. '
The two wins were registered 
at the expense of Waynesburg 
and Washington & Jefferson. The 
score of the Waynesburg -match 
was to 2Vz. as returning
MVP Neal Dirito and returning 
lettermen Dick Morrison and Roy 
Gingery won their matchès. 
Freshman John Moholland play­
ed to a tie. The W&J match was 
won by a score of 5 to 4 as 
? Dirito and Moholland, along with 
returning lettermen Dale John­
son won their matches. A tie was
WAA Sponsors 
IM Swimming
WAA, the Women’s Athletic 
Association is again sponsoring 
\,J sg intramural swimming for both 
teams and individuals. Any team 
of five members or more may en­
ter, or individuals may* enter and 
be assigned to a team for the final 
meets.
The swimming meets will be 
held May 11, 12, and 14 at 4:30 
p.m. on those days in the Tech 
pool .Two practices are required 
during the week of'-May 4.
All entries are due today in the 
gym office.
registered by Freshman Bob 
Blazier.
The team’s two losses were at 
the hands of St. Vincent and 
Western Reserve. The score of the 
St. Vincent match was 6 to 1 as 
Tech’s only winner was Mohol­
land. In a four man match in 
Cleveland with Western Reserve 
the final tally was 11% to 4M> as 
Johnson registered 4 points and 
Gingery registered
Upcoming matches are with 
traditional rivals Geneva and 
Westminster.
Tennis Team 
4-0; Meefs , 
Grovers Next
Last Wednesday, the Tech ten­
nis team travelled to Westminster 
expecting the worst, for they had 
lost lo the Titan netters the pre­
vious season by a score of 7-2. 
Their worries were unnecessary, 
however, for they coasted to an 
easy 8-1 victory, winning five of 
six singles matches and sweeping 
the doubles. This was the third 
straight 8-1 win for Tech,, the 
previous two being at the expense 
of Waynesburg and St. Vincent.
This Saturday, the Tar­tans will visit Grove City, re­
ported to be the roughest team on 
the schedule. Tech was victorious 
in last year’s match (5-4), but 
rumor has it that Grove City has
THIS FAMOUS YMCA iQW HOMil
Be convenient to the World’s Fair, theatres, i 
shops, cultural activities. For young men 1 
and groups; All facilities in | 
building-laundry, cafeteria | 
and coffee shop, barber, TV j 
loom, newsstand and tailor, j 
Rates: $3, $3.10, $4.50 s 
Single; $4.70, $5.10 Double.1 
Free tours and programs.
WELCOMETO
NEW YORKMB THE
WORLD'S 
FAIR
WILLIAM SL0ANE 
HOUSE Y.M.C.A..
3S6 West 34th St. (nr Ninlh Ave.) I 
New York, N.Y. Phone: Oxford 5-5133 A 
(One Block From Penn Station)
picked up a few fine freshmen and I to be the most exciting match of 
transfer students. It should prove I the year.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
entô
OM 9100 TO 91BOO
18KT. White Gold Solitaire setting high and pretty 
' giving maximum brilliance and security. $300 F.T.I. 
Enlarged for detail.
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
JOHN M. ROISI RIS' SON f"
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN
I East Hills Shopping Center • 731 Washington ltd., Mt. Lebanon
iiiiiiuiiïiilïii
DON’T BE B BEAST OF HHi
dragging your winter 
clothes back home.. •
It just doesn’t make sense to go through all the fuss and 
bother, and expense, of taking your winter clothes home. 
You’ll only have to repeat the process when you return, 
come Pall 1
Play it smart and safe. Store your garments with us the 
economical Box Storage way ! Our jumbo box holds up to 25 
garments. Simply fill it with such wearables as woolen skirts, 
shirts, slacks, sweaters, jackets. We’ll do the rest — dry- 
cleaning, storing, insuring everything, and pressing every 
item right before delivery in the Pall !
Our Convenient BOX STORAGE 
costs You less than 2c a day!
Costs you only a penny or two a day 
plus the standard drycleaning charge 
which you'd pay, anyway! Nothing to 
pay/till Fall!
The folks back home will be mighty 
glad for the extra closet space. Call 
or see us about using our Box Storage.
CAMPUS CLEANERS4909 FORBES STREET
Open Daily 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.MU. 1-1288

---------------------------------------------------

rxt S — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. April 88, MM
Rain Falls To 
Daunt Play In 
IM Softball
In last week's IM softball action, 
the game between the top-ranked 
Brave League contenders resulted 
in ATO leading KS by a 10-9 score. Rallying in the first inning 
behind Grieco’s lead-off double, 
ATO scored four runs to gain a 
lead they never relinquished. But 
in a later game, KS demonstrated 
their power with a 48-10 trouncing of the "Organization.” SAE show­
ed potential threat to league-lead- 
ing ATO by coming' from behind 
to defeat “Trips to Win” 9-8 and
then defeating the “Commuters” 
6-1 in a rain-shortened game.
After losing to the Firik “Beau­
ties” 18-10, TDP defeated the Met 
Grads 11-5 behind Dudash's 
hits. But the Met Grads were able 
to defeat the Fink “Beauties” 7-6. 
In other league play, the Grad 
Eagles “G” got by Sti with a 9-6 
score, then took a forfeited game 
from DU.Yankee League DTD showed 
more slugging power by defeat­
ing TDP “B” 27-11 .after losing a 
slugfest to the Dorm-Trojans 18- 17. BSR “Mets” defeated the EE 
Grads 14-1 on balanced hitting 
and . Balzar’s .fine pitching. The' 
Mets” lost a previous game last 
week to the Civil Hammers.
In Giant League play, the BSR 
“Yankees” edged the “Marauders’
Heed the still, small voice of conscience
Call home now! It’s easy, it’* inexpensive, and ths 
folks’ll love you for it!
10DISCÛUNT
on your
mOu GnFUiLiv
and
EeLOY nUCimOu
When you present your Tech I.D.
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 FORBES AVE.
OPEN DAILY FROM
8 A.M. to 8 P.M.
14-13 in a shortened game. The 
win from Fink "B” and a 31-4 
Grad Eagles "E" got a forfeited 
win over PKA.
beat the “Ideals” 8-3 behind Rob­
erts’ pitching and hitting.. Roberts 
again led ATO’s hitting against 
the SAE “J,” but SAE managed
'in the^jag Met League, ATO “J” to drive across one more run than
ATO. Although SN “j** was out- 
hit in their game against the BTP 
“J,”, they refused- to be “out- 
jagged” in the biggest jag game 
of the season as they lost 41-2.
The “Progress Corps” 
comes to the Fair
General Electric men and women 
have been gathering at the New York 
World’s Fair, bringing the latest de­
velopments from the wonderful 
world of electricity.
They’ve made their pavilion — 
Progressland — entertaining. It’s a 
bright show, enhanced by the master 
showmanship of Walt Disney.
But, more than that, it’s your 
chance to see, as in no other way, the 
career opportunities offered in the 
electrical industry. For here, under 
one huge dome, is assembled a full 
range of the electrical ideas that are 
helping millions of people throughout 
the world progress toward better 
lives. Ideas that come from the people 
at General Electric, who form a real 
“Progress Corps.”
There are new electronic ideas for 
medicine that promise better patient
care in our hospitals. Ideas for more 
efficient factories, less-congested 
transportation, better community 
lighting, increased highway safety, 
and more comfortable living at home. 
And there’s the first large-scale pub­
lic demonstration of nuclear fusion 
—the energy process of the sun.
For you, Progressland is a rare 
chance to see what General Electric 
can offer in terms of a meaningful 
career in engineering, finance, mar­
keting, law, sales and many other 
specialties.
If this looks like your career path, 
talk to your placement director. He 
can help qualified people begin their 
careers at General Electric.
Progress A Our Most important Product
GENERAL^) ELECTRIC
