football DftBw Wdiy Might
HUBIO BY GEORGIANS
Dancing Starts 9:00 P. M. Admission $1.26
VOL. XXI NO. 11li CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER. 23,. 1926
CARNEGIE IS 
EASY WINNER 
OVER WEST VA.
Donohoe, Letzelter and Mé­
fait Star ib Attack Which
.. The Junloi under', way. 
have been appointed In eadi school 
to functlon- .ic- .-'the» • preparation. OUt'er ¦ in^ortant-'eub-commltteeB will be formed'In the near future. The name of the1 orchestra has not yet been announced.• The first preliminary ticket 6ale I wlh be conducted .during tbe week C December 13. the price ot the Sub-
HOLD 1ST COAL 
CONFERENCE 
AT CARNEGIE
CROWD O F 1,200 
SEE SKIBOS WIN
nmph.iPlaces/Tartans Sec- 
ond lit Tri-State "Big 
Four” Standing.
Mid tbe chilly blasts ot a typical 
winter .day, Carnegie’s courageous football -warriors downed the We« Virginia ¦ University eleven last Saturday - afternoon. vat. Forbes Field lo the tune bf'2G-0. With a running attack, that was as power­ful as It was deceptive, with a de­fense that was Impregnable, and with a stream’Of Harpster's beau­
tiful passes all combined In one spectacular -trained', combination, 
the Ploid mechine worked its way to another glorious victory. over . another; strong' and formidable "op­
ponent" ' /.
. The retuni of Melzlecer and Me- 
fort to tho lineup strengthened the forward wall a great deal, and al­though Melzlener was forced to quit" early when hie : Injured nose commenced to bleed, he' demon­
strated during his short stay that he has lost none of bis old cun­ning, and will be a tower of strength for next. Snturday's'clash 
against the Irish if the injured - member only permits. Mefort ic his first game'since the- Detroit battle proved.again to be oneof 
the brlgl'-t lights of the: Sklbo at- .'tack, hla repeated thrusts around . West Virginia'^lett-flank furnish­ing one of the rare treats of the 
apir/ted melee. N
. . The Tartans, started out In-muchthe same whirlwind fashion that characterized ' their 'brilliant bat­
tles. with th^ other two members of the Trl-state foursome, Pitt and Waeh-Jeff. Taking the klckoff.on their own goal line, Carnegie started a "drive that proved un- : stoppable.i-'unlll Inside the . Wo.Bt Virginia-25-yard, line. 7_ Here the Mtfpa.taineer Jforwiiole bracedtheir' took the ball on downs own 24-yard line. Unable to pene­trate the Plaid defense, West Vir­ginia punted to the: Sklbp 40-yard line, and the Scots started on an­other offensive which- could not deny them their objective. Don<> hue dashed- 22 yards on- the first .play, only to have the ball'brought back, for the Infliction of another of these penalties, so dlshearten- • ing to Carnegie adherents through­out the fray. Undaunted however, little Bill lore around right end on the next.play. for another , 22 yards, and then Letzelter dashed off tackle - on the erstwhile famous ‘'spinner*' the remaining : 30 yards for a touchdown. Letz* piece kick for the extra point was- perfect' 
The. second touchdown was acored'iljortly after the first one. Harpster kicked off tor Carnegie Tech’to' Ryan and the Morgantown lads, •..then -• went-.on' the -oifenslve.- Driving-;their, .way.' up ’the center of the .' , field; the .-Mountaineers were'retaliating with a vengeance; jrhen the alert Letzelter Intercept-1 
v ;^d a long forward paaa and starV 4' eti the SklboE optheroid
sale.2 cha
Any suggestions - from . upper-' .claeBmon will be considered by the Junior' Prom Committee. Regulfr weekly meotlngs will he held In Industries' 111, every Tuesday at Uipo of the Prom.
1927 ARTS BALL 
IS TO BE RUSSIAN
:20 until-(
Arts Students Already Busy 
Preparing Fpr Huge
GIGANTIC PROJECT
and.daithe cloistered corridors >ned hallways of the Arts school, a once-faint rumbling has been gradually . Increasing^ t thundering roar; and nervously excited students are . aproaching varying stages of hysteria ff the Impending crisis approaches. Rev­olution is , in the alr,: and unre­
stricted riot, threatens the staid college ot Arte. Occasional fiosbes of -brilliant and dashing - color plorce the gloom of saspens the peasant forces marshal for .the. conflict, suggesting war-llke
mory of all' that has gom e. The Arts Ball! Described the v .annals. of-Carnegie with >ry known superlative, this coli
jiasEres.'iaîl'-'prèvibua"*Russian themof this, year's'Ball
ill leave the spectator li of daze, upon; full /realization strikingpf. their moaning.,' Vlylri. etril motifs predominate throughout d immeui 
«
plans and the grand Immeusity the whole project le çltiioet beyond 
cofflprobenâion., colors in decorations and - cos­tumes, lighting effects extraordin­ary, and the individual inspira­tions of a, well-managed and" eft!(Continues on Page, Two)
Successful Sessions of Inter­
national Meetings on Bit­
uminous Coal ClosesThurs.
Carl Sandburg Poet, Summarizes 
His Book on Abraham Lincolri
Chicago.Carl Sandburg, fai poet,' spoke last TMi ber 18, at Mellon Hall, University of Pittsburgh. He was brought here under the auapi«9 of the So­cial Science Club of Uia.t school.* talked on-Abrahainri<Incolr.. 
- trying-to summarize hie
book
TO ESTABLISH NEW 
RESEARCH BUREAU
Carbonization, Liquefaction and 
Smoke Problem Prove . 
Important.
Old King Coal sltB on a new 
throne today.
The International Conference at Carnegie last week polished up tho.mlghty.monarch. It ¿hows-the pathways to’the cornucopia of this carboniferous ruler who' for years has languished with only heat to do its bidding. From cloistered lab­oratories, from actlve'jndUBtrles and from the institutions' of learn­ing come noted men to Toveal.and 
to coalesce the existing 'knowledge of this.'bountiful servant That the effect will be a far .reaching one
Volc<by all
tton of. the Conference every per­iod of years.
Although retrospection has yet to show the true worth of the un­dertaking, the Conference revealed that a new era of coal investiga­tion Is at hand. In the future the fundamental Btudles in connection 
with coal wlir be concerned with tbe ' composition, reaotlvlly, sol­vent analysis, thermal decomposi- rtlbn, structural ' modification and. synthetic expansion into, fields that are fascinating In tbelr possibili- tins and-as bewildering as they aro Inviting. Already, the.JIfiuefactlpnOf COal- ---------------------------tie) been hldd< producing fertilizers, oil, gas and a vast number of associated pro­
ducts. 'At present the world-is pn the threshold of" a new era In utiliza- tlon ot coal, and the possibility foreshadowed, of refining the na- 
turatj>joduct,.. o^^centratin^-}.^: ìnirinsÌc’vaiuo and >f applying It In novel ways, is rapidly changing the-'conception of-its potentialities and riarks the beginning of a.revo­lution In the application . of our 
principal so«
Snndburg-'fenld,¡member that his-life was .-lived- i ihree distinct periods of Amer­ican history. The first part of hia- vos spent, iu the latter co­lonial period, an age of no ma­chinery. -The' second part In a orlod of transition and unrest; nd the lust years ¦ of his life larked that perio4d -in American Istory when, the civilization ' was basod on a s,et'of tools, appliances Dd methods undreamed of fifty aars previous.iShndburg said (hat when he started to write this biography of Lincoln he intended to make it a' 
work tut when ho was soon’ gripped by the. charm of the' 
strango personality of the m&n. There ia probably no character in ijfltory who possesses such aninge.
P. R. R.. Quartet Will 
Sing at Assembly
Famous RedArrow Singers 
Much in Demand by All 
Leading Stations
md the
GUILD CAHNIVAL DATE 
IS CHANGED TO MAR. 18
Tho’ date for the annual Guild C^rnival’hefl. been:: chan£^d'\ from December 4 to SL Patrick’s' Bay, ch 18, because of a conflict with the fraternity-rushing period, 
the paat. It has been- customary
COMMITTEE IS CHOSEN 
FOR INTERFRAT FORMAL
Schenleyor Webster Hall To 
Provide Betting1 For Affair.
change' tlie.^cernlval
Impérative I Puppet.- A.
The Interfmteniity Formal, will he held at- the Schenley Motel or Webster Halt! The date listed In the Plebo Bible is February 11 but m^ybe'changed to January-:7. ' Tho committee .In charge of the sparatlon are: Bol» Shrh :hiteçt who is chairman belongs the Kappa Sigma frat; Abbott, ateinity of th'
The other members
and lloaohuo workÿ the P'raWn ...j,,, 0( thc .-Mlr.fllnB or the tra-' 
: TUleäl -wiiieU. çam.o t this semester.- The girls,
rom tnldfleld to the three-yard, line, from wbefe 'Donohue circled ^ ^West yirginte.’s right .end for the aVfeVrinT^TlMV 
second aLi-pointer. . 'Igaih-the undivided sppport <
' TIio- second' and third quarters f.-aternlty men'on the campui wvere nlp-and-tuck jvlth neither l ^jg piijianthroi
aity.
of the Slgm
ioiisly threatening. Mountaineers showed their great- r (Contlnnod on Page Three;.),
:eeds fi 
o the Frc
li>the aluinnl and t
Alpha Sig’s Enjoined 
From Any. Rushing Dur- 
ing ' First Week i of,
‘ ,| The wealth of Irish tradition forViolating the rushing rules^¿ved SaJnt’s Day will give adopted this year by the fraternl- tlie memher3 o£ the Guild an op:- : ,uea... Alpha- Slgmi Phi fraternity ,niaPee the scope
enjoined from- holding any I ¿e carrilval, und to make changes rushing »fffjrs during, the Orat ¿„j „¿^velty beo-J.3, thew. ,,Wuc «ea„r.. at the^¦ and the 'stunts. Th=
Board plans to have a play pre- 
SS of! «">••'1 hy .^rt «tudi'Wa. The stot- jsldep.t oc | jg rtjjjj.:.njp being-appropriate.;for
f the commilt Itord, a memb omraltt.ee and nd Boebel, a m Phi Epsilon fra The -orchestras being considered are: “Whftey‘r Kaufman's'orches­tra, Ben. Bernie and his orchestra,. Ted -Weem’s orchestra, Don Beetor. I nd orchestra, Zez Confi ey’s orches- I tra, Coon-Sanders' Night-Hawks. The last three are Vlctoi- recording 
orchestras. CoohrSanders’ Night popular
-adloSupper wlll .be night And excellent cuisine.will, be arranged. Anyone who is afilllated witU any fraternity Is.eligible for admittance.- Tho ‘ adintsslon , will probably be $6 per couple as It 
Vas last'year.- . "
meettns council 1jbchaxd vJjT; Jones, ^
?hé;UniyóráU7"of;%ñpÍ¿;^^^^^^ ^líííé
terpjty cpupcll, attended .the .ip^-.’obollshedi dancing will ,be substi; ; ing'and -.gaye-;a-.very •.murnlnating..j¿te^ •" ' • 
talk on rushing . systems
Glee'Club First
Concert Last Wed.
'the/United'•••¦• iatBcV'unlv.erslUes
siifiw...1' •-:\'Mr. Jones .has made a yer? thor- . oùgh study of this subject.'during tfie: last i?ear, and ls now.. ,óñ; hl3 : . wíy^’to tiie nnHoiial fraternity: conference :to: be /held in New 
: -York, where he will make a. comi piete*'report of bis syryey.. :He;.ls . armed ; with data from the deans - ór many 'large echoola. and haa 
• ;, nado. pérsónàl.’. Inqiilry at -. many , • eciioois ¿ñ hís lfip oast. . :.V-'Ìt'.waà ’thé' sentiment of the fra* teraity^representatiyes '-that..-.the •..vfpiejMs'- ;are7Jointly responsable ^with ^ tiie fraterniUefl for the successful •and' honest ¿dminlstiaUon of; the 
rroshlng reguiaUoñfl. í. 'fCT¿e' Councli. wlil. hold- its - next ¿íBnÍMUng: on Dccember * ' '
‘GEORCIANS7 TO ‘PLAY .. ‘ Âf LAST FOOTBALL'•'.•'•'•O-'-' DANCE OF SEASON
season -will bè bVld.. Friday nlglit, November :26,; in the b^ dance,; will • be a veryf peppy, affair as' the committee has accured the. 
‘‘(Georglane'» the : best: órchestra at Pitt . to /urniali the music.- TheBßda^ such' «.j dèddedfsucceàs during- th(football.' wi lV b e ^conti nued
throughout' ’ Uic.^ winter ^inonth.e' uns der the name of ba'ske tball .danceSj The^' yaame^ in
-charge. -'- ! ’'u-'-'. . Everyone is urged to attend this, llntiirevént tf it'will bfe’ aii' ex.ce|i;
The first concert appearance .of 
the Men’s Glee* Club was last -Wed­nesday, night,-. November 17, in th« North Sl.de Carnegie Music Hail a1 thp. corner of Federal and Ohio 
streeés. '.The'; singers.: have made tb'r« appearances, ihls^ fall.under thi ne\y regime. They gave credita­ble performances ‘ >t Chap.el and General; ' Assetnbly, and wpre. .es­pecially good over thè radio last Sunday-on-thè Réd' Crosa^rSgram 
Yr^in S^tlon .'W/C. A.'"B.:'";'V.',‘. 'The ' progra.ni . for 'the first con-
arà.bèlDf ue,edi and of 
pafticular• notice is 'I Hear bafl D
' ' siniffiii® r” ^ •'WT.Ï ttWäs bÿ V M r/v p.äül
as published last » life of this man.
.ÇTUDENTS AND BAND 
TO PARADE TO HALL
¡ember 14.
The ñon who compose this quar- et have cach 'been In..the.service if the. P. il. R. for at least.five years* They formed .the quartet l' tiet^own imotlon ànd arè gii'eri 
D?e . off by thé -company tç 'sing T gatherings of frleuds and fel- w employes.
By special, invitation the quartet singing-at the annual banquet-ot the Rotary Club of New. .York on vening of December 7 at the. Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
Is said that the quartet Is a. er.. favorite;.with, ¿th’é.f: puUlç tlián-Is any'other musical organl- i -formed exclusively of em­ployes of any one greet industrial rn In tho United : States. Their popularity Is ovldent by the fact that they bave a standlng In­vitation to broadcast from all the loading stations.
new. stunt has been arranged the assembly. The Blind will n in front of the Central Bulld- and lead the student parade to Carnegie Hall. All Freshmen áre eqnired to march In this parade md it is desired to. have as many ither etadents as 'poEBlble to turn
NEW BAND UNIFORMS 
TO APPEAR NEAT TERM
The question as to whethc it .the: Kiltlti; Band will .have uniforms' this year has been id Since the eilorts of ‘ Overend, Clarence Udd.John Carr, failed to. produce the de­sired uniforms in time for the Pltt game, tbe Band will ma,ke. Its
, the concern whc had taken order was warned that'the or- 
would be automatically can­ed, if the kllta did not arrive time for tills game. No word been received since that date, and the order is. considered can­celled.- .
tbable that the unl- hàd they been ordered from
it,' was Impossible. Only t bid for tiie order, one them being located i
binaUoi
and laughter; such a com- of the tragic and the imic. Ho sounded the depth3 of 
islancMly tmd the heights of tragedy.-About no man In American his­tory has so much been wr^teii as about Lincoln. Moró than 2700 books ure avnilQble asv authorities' on his life. Sandburg spoke.of sov- eml biographies - in particular 
which are'telling. He related lit- idd incidents, in Lincoln’s life, litde drolleries ' characteristic of bich make , him so In­teresting. There Is a danger that Lincoln, as have many others in history, become an empty idea.wo have .' now documentary )( of his humanness on which false legend can be built. He. go down in. history aa a per­
sonality such - as Cótiíucius. and Lro-Tze in Cbineso legend. Probably Ifie most te'iiiiig dncu- leat ,Lincoln has deft, the one hli ir r^vpals moat of "hio- charuO- ier Is his letter to bis wife, re­vealing bis "tone of voice” toward her.Lincoln, defied President Folk when he was in Coiigross,.and-in- Tcd popular , dislike to such an tent thpt ho thought he woe through VUh politics. He retlrod devote his time to law, but ho 
16 later cnllcd back.Sandburg touched on the druma of.-his debates with Douglas—"tho drama of Douglas and' Lincoln nnd thn people/' One. ot these.debates was held on tho Knox College cam» i. iu tialesbui-g, 111., Sandburg’s
'If Art- Is the way of everyday lifo, if It is grace of b-.hivior, II it.hfts Bw ilo with keeping the heart and tho mind troubled,; then Lln- s the Supreme "American Art­ie emboólos the spirit, ot de- icy. lie embodies that ab- étractlon-Americanlsm.’1 ..including, Sandburg read a few selections from that chapter Vf hia book.he'had In mind whon s’uuis up
Tuition Fees For New Stud- 
ents to b£ Increased $100 
Starting September 1927
' .4----— • '
PRESENT STUDENTS 
FEES UNCHANGED
3waile Announces 
Science Stag Chair­
men and Committee
., has'd 'the' following men tVfiis' 
ilttee:insurer, R. F. Connelly; pub­licity,' F. H. -Finn; cats and smokes, G. 0/ Wessanauer, E. A. Vlijrow; program, F. A. Kolb, J. M. Schneider, T. F. Braetow,. Q. L. Seibert; popularity contdtt, R. H. Lobr; property- and - stage, B. R. Hill, E. H. Gellfues, L .J. Hart­man; ticket sales, W. P. Simpson.Eta Kappa Nu .has appointed J. R. Power and. J. T.- Chldester to mpervise the lighting.All of the abo\e men are active n school affairs and each Is well ible
mmlttee haye served cSto^ committees and are well acquainted with the problems that arise oul ot the , 'succcasful managing, of auch a social event. The committee represents all four classes in Science School.I¦ The Science Stag.ptfers.an.eve­ning of relaxation and light.eater- tainment .for the Science men. Ac­cordingly, every attempt is. made to fill each minute/just as full as possible with merriment class stunts will be of a kind as only men from, the Engine school. can present; the faculty and alumnl stunts witi be none less Interesting,' for' it wlll .be meniliered that at last year's party the faculty stunt Included nearly all the Sclenco School “Profs" and for the alumnl stunt "AI" Mlnettl (Continued on Page Two)
Picture Proofs For
Thistle Are Available
other in Niagara Falla, N. lection.
. The proofs of-tne ploturea which Were.recently taken by the “Wlilte Studies” .fc»' the Tlilstle are avail­able, and have been avaijablo foi the'past week. As is usual, how­ever,'many of the. studente have failed to co-operate or shew enough Intersst in tneir own ciaas.to, call- thi proofs and make their sè-
As the Pittsburgh company price almost double that of the ' (Continued on Page Two)
te 'annual.-.T-hanksglying Marfc conducted :.t»y the Household i.omlcs Club of Margaret Mor- rlspn íj'tó bja held tomorrow', Wed- nosday, November 24, in the M: M. Tea-Room from 11:30.on.. -s.. ¦’' The articles on sale will. indude delicious: ModieB. /copklea, plum puddings, .and ' trult ' cakes-r^'ekta:'
jiig 'season: - All- the wórtf of';in¿Ú- ìng these aweeta; h'as ,lbeen_done t>y girls In thé' Hou^ehold. Economlca Department and .lias entailed - quite 
a:b'it of- effort-and time on their' 
part- - ? • ' ¦ o-:‘ •It ha£ beea the;experience pf the clubwïthsmarkéta of preyious yea«; that nearly overylhlñg was out^ within a few. honra aftér th^í 
saie began. S'p those ' who are - tn^ W^sfed .'wlll want to. be on>hand
allnot: called for.by then wlll nel be available until after Christmas. The'Thistle staff will malte thé se­lection of the picture to -bo used- in the:year twok;- hence-if.those iwho have not' called for ihcir proofs -wish any., voice in the selection rhey!.wiJl hay« to culj'at-tlie in Industries wliera , (he pi< wvre taken befor
overy studc-nt to ' nit onoe'.Bs orders Christines dellvei
thesbtalu-the^piclure maybemfidcfor y If desiied.
- A éhort meeting' of . the Student 
CpuncJI.wM'hold.onTu^BiiaVj'No: vemlxBc 16, - following the' dinner given ^le mèmbers tiy Dean (ïreen
IN GRE ASE IM 
TUITION FEE 
NEXT YEAR
Increase Instituted By Board 
of Trastees Essential To 
Further Progrese.
Board of Truetoes and the oxocO- body of tho school they have decided .that an Inqreaso in the a fee lor nnw students Vould be nccossnry. The need of such Increase has 'been felt tor the past years but has been delayed as : as possible. However, tbe matter has reached a point whore the further success and progress of the- school 13 largely dependent i such action.The increase In tuition -\vlll ap­ply-only to those sludont9 who are registering for »tho first time alter Septomber 1, 1927 or tor thoso who wt>re.former full time students but mve not.bee'n registered Blnce August 15, 1926.Those who uro Bubjoct to tho In­crease will pay a tuition .fee of $150 for the first semester plus activities fee of $10 dod a break* a doposit ot $6. The second 
ncster tuition fee will be $150 plus a breakage deposit of $5.- The total 'under the new rules will then be,S300, Tuition-fee for the year plus tbe activities fee and b^eak- deposit.of $10. This is an In- croase of- $100.over the rates wolch prevailed up until September
11*25-20 or 1926-27 and whoso courses are uninterrupted after September, 1927, will be subject tÇie old tuition fees.Nitre will be a^ iiicioase In tho tulUcn feo of those students who. tnkkin'g less than eighteen - of work but. arc ’ registered for ,tiiç semçst^ ' Tho: new feiea -will' bcT'i'eS iof both^ flrsï Snd sec- nd setqestcr, making a total of 130 for the. term plus a $5 break Be dtpqsit ‘Tlie changea bave been modo with thé-viewpoint of .bèîïeflilng the. achooL Tho financial condl- s in connection -with the funo- s. of. a BchpoI.'the size , of .Car­le have Increased enormously (Continued on PagA Two)
Frosh Urged to Make Rat­
ing Scale to Insure Pre­
cautionary Choice
LOYALTY RATING, 
CONTACT NECESSARY
the request of the Intorfra- 
lernlty Councli, Dean.Tarbell and Dean Keeble epoke on fraternity rushing to an assembly ot men,
.the opening of the rudbing sea*, season about two mouths later than .before. This Is! a muoh tairer sya- than the-old one, in which neither tho fratornltles nor the propsr opportunity to decide .what theiy wanted, which' resulted In many unhappy sltua* Hone. Dean Tarbell suggeated tbut met), who were hid. to h'.aternl- > consider ’ In' making their ilea >the fratjamity's 'loyalty' to the college, it?: scholarship, par- 
s.oniUltyi balanced Interests, ilnan.- clftl standing,- national standing,' whethor or not it has a clean, well* kept house, and the geniality
SCIENCE HONORAMES 
CALL NEW PLEDGEES
Theta Tau Eta Kappa Nu Fra- 
termties Bid Nine Men 
Tuesday.
At the Sclcnce Assembly hqld last TuQsdky, pledges.were called 
jfqr t^fo. honprary .engineering fria- lernities. Theta Tau and Eta Kap-' pa Nu. Profe'Bsor Work made the call for Eta Kappa /Nu. Thos<
A. C. Hough. The Juniors were, M. R. Bricei J. S.. Baughman, D. H. Calien, B. R. Hill, D. S. Putt, and ¦J. M. Sherman, ¦' • -
. Professor =. c. Dennlaon, date professor of electTlcal c eerlng, was called- as. an associate 
mcinher- He is a graduate .of Cor­nell University where, ha also served as an instructor in electrir cal engineering.' - became . aninstructor at Carnegie in 1910. 
Professor Dennison has written several books and papers on elec­trical engineering. He. is a mem­ber of the Aaierican Institute of Electrical Engineers, the Society for PromoLion- of Engineering. Ed- (Continued on Page Two)-
PHI KAPPA PLAYS HOST AT 
CONVENTION - IN LATE DEC
The t<venty-nlnth annual con­vention of Phi Kappa, naUonal-'so- clal fraternity, will bo held in Pittsburgh the last three days of December, with 'the Carnegio and' tt chapters' as hosts.
The preliminary prcpamipus 11 . start on Vpeccmber. 4 wlth .a viarslty banquet at. ISTebstec ftaii. At. tills' time the memb’era of. ath? lctlc teams..of the two schoola who are members of Phi Kappa will be honored by tho Pittsburgh Alumni
Since the '»warding of the con­vention, laa^ December, at the Uni­versity uf-’lillnois every effort, has been, made tp stage In Pittsburgh t^e-; J finest' ' conveiition: :V possible. Thei meetings ;wiii--^.be'V scheduled 
for oi - •••' -’¦ • "•¿itjr-ister’Hail will thevce^ter:Of'the social events which will c»na).Bt; of a banquet pn the iilght;^ b^r aO'and alform^&n^'^iafn^'t nlght whlch Is ' New': Y^rs'.eye;_ "' Slnco'the founding pt Ui^ frat» nlty;Hn: 187^
CARNEGIE DAY 
EXERCISES IN 
MUSIC HALL
Dr. Suzzalo, Ousted Pres, 
of Washington Univivereity 
to AddressStudenls, Faculty •
PROCESSION LEAVES 
CENTRAL BUILDING;
DR. SUZZALO
DEANSTALK ABOUT 
NEW RUSHING PLAN
ntbers.make arating scale,
counting eo inany: per cent for loy- aud- to choose tho fra ter- Qity with -tiie ^highest rating in the no8tvloglcaT-máthod:-of-docldin¿- 
vhich to enior. .:Dean. K^eblo’Sr subject was, "If 
%u are bid. to a fraternity,-is :lt idvleable to join, and whyr.*Why ire we at colloge, anywny? Osten* ilbly It. Is • to learn avt,. or engi­neering, or whatever It may bei but 
rcally.lt Is to broadeu.our lives, to learn how to,reach happiness. •' We havó a long time of preparation for lltel Home. life. Is the. simplest, fundamental preparation... Col­
illa ie more complex, is in fact, a small model of tho: world. Wo have to ftrrango’ properly all the factors in oiir life, academics, cam- 3 activities, and social activities. id.smlcB arp important, of- course,' (Continued on page .Two). -
Cornogio Doy cxorclaca axo be- 
g held today, at cloven o'clock at 
'fcnrnegio #MiwUc' Hall. . Ail classes 
>111 he. suspended for 20;20 to. 
:30 o’clook lu order that nil stu- 
enls mny atlond;
The followlug. order of ranrch. 
,U1 be obsorved: The Band, R.
Ô. T. C. and Colot6, Faculty, and 
Students. Tho Band and IL O. T. 
i meet in Lünglôy Labora* ; 
Thé fftciilty will oflaerable 
|n tho first floor corridor : of the lndustrlos building,: head, at .main -. entrance. • The' students, will moot
toiloM s:. Seniors, first floor cor­ridor,'. Industries Buijdlng, west 
half, nearest Carnegie Library.: Juniors," first flrior corrldôf; Indus* tries Balding,r east' half, nearest Langîey Laiwrotbry -; Sophomorosi ,nd‘ 'floor vcorridori lndiistxleB 
Building, west, half, .nearest' Car- heg|e Library. Freshmen, .i
tory.Dr. Henry BuszqaNo. who wUI ad* dress thov BtudentB. faouity and elumni ol Cainegle on the occasion e fòurieénth annual oh's'orv- >f-ths-Wrthday of Androw Cai*"" ue$lo, founder of.thls:insUtuio is rv otéd ¿d«catpr,.ftó(l-. wa9.a^ one time.'
dismissal from ' the .esldency. ,bf> the University: of WaHhisgton haB been followtd by a flaro of populai- reeejitment'-Unia- mouAt to that of a revolution. Four •housed Htudonts._ ftstoitnded by 
his. unexpected ;d^^ ie|ere^ttr.-6ua2aiipy:iihoi^o'n>^» i Hhiipus.fliid declared ia. '8trike, 'volc- ng triil|Ute .to their pi^sld^nt Dr. Su^zalio has uidde a spcclal' 
tudy.ot polUlcail'economy.. Ho. Is . i: rnambor of th.e Amerjcan Academy f .Poiltiesi^and; Social Scienco, .. ^(Cohtl)piued. on Page Two) ' V
HILL WILL REPRESENT 
FRATS AT CONFERENCE
STUDENT DIRECTORIES 
OUT TUESDAY NOV. 30
The student' directory,' .thei most epoch making volume to strike the Carnegie ¦ campus sluce tlie Civil War will be out very shortly. ' No &an afford to be without -this' companion volume to tho .Plebs' Bible, The, Works ot Shakespeare, and the ppems of Carl Said burg.
The Student Handbook win i lndlspenslhle in the securing’of dates. Under the latest approved system (approved by tho deans) the g|rla:aie not poly listéd alpha­betically, but socially aud other­wise. Various marks are ilsed to denote their.proficiency in various lines. For. Instance,',all girls who neck, pot, or entertain have an asterisk. Those who smoke and drink will be blessed with' a mond. ' The ones who make'200 P. Q’s. will be glvon a biack mark '-while any other, faults auftlifiçatlons will he prôperly. noted. - ' :
.In the girls sççilon, of the boj arid thttlr activities of cpiirae, e of the.boys will have their- ow brands, just like the cattlo tin so many ot . them prove to b Those with çoon coats',"^ those , with cars, the snappy danccrs/ th© town men (if that means anything)- and these with' the ,best. clothes will havo very clever hïarkg; ' A gli without: a .directory Is-liable .to ‘draw a-flat.tjre,at'any.-timQ'.V Another feature wlli lié the hon­orary fraternity; sectipn; This sec- 
'(Continued1 on- Pago.TT7'o)': : ;-'
ROWLAND-CLARK STUDENT TICKETS AT TARTAR pFIf jCE
{Student’s tickets/w ,the various' Rpwl^nd. and Cjárk 'theftera'. may­be obtained Jjy any- student of'Cai>:
trips Building. . . . . _ ........proferatrly.-'duringy.tlje -hour'or on :Fridayyaït^rhçons;.; ;-(-Tlie8etickets mu8t be -slgned for ..whenreceived in tha Tartan office. These.^qe'pui.ed.be^^^pfficcBofsthè'theaters, ^ntltiëfi.thé?tjidcnt;beflrertp'pur^for: '¿ny - Veet; ¡day/ with tW cscep^tlon of Weiinpsdays'. and- Saturdays,at.,the spéçlâl^fàngè^'of prlc^sKiiBb,',SO.à 25c) Vccordlng to Uie theater.pt wbich tho tlcket is presented.
Privata Donor Scholarship 
AwaniB For 1826 -1327 
Will Be Annoanoed.
National Interfraternity Oon- 
ferenoo Will Be Held In 
New York Olty. •
B. R. Hill. 'Sigma Pht Epsilon representative and presldent of the 
local - interfraternity Council, -. baa bees, appolnled ae deteffate to the Interfrater n ity Conference.:,^ Tii^;\annual.-: Inj^rffo[tern|.ty Con- ifprence,"''-^o&po&d ' of 'delegates frpm tii.e'National .fraternises, of. the .United.-''^lateB and ' Caueda, 
will meet at Ve Hotel Pennsyl­vania hore. the Friday ond Satur­day after Thanksgiving,' Novemberi 27. ;More than 200 of tlie officers of 
the various • fraternities wjll. ,be preaeut,- as- «roll ns prominent od-.; ucators from an parts,of tho, ^uii' try\ Several college and uniye^relty' .prbsldente- wlil tie on hand; among them the head of Qeorge Wash­ington University,.: Dr» ; William-• 
:Mathey Lewis,'wlio; will make.’: oner; of the. principal Addresses.. ; President-\yilllam H. J. Faunco of ®row’n, who iuspired .thc forma; 
tiou of' the Interfratrenity. Confer- enofi eighteen . ?eara ago, 'is. also ; expectcid. ,A6. a reault of .his idea; fraternities have been encouraged to lay 'aside mutual -jealousies and rivalries ; for the advancement-o£ ‘. (Cofltluuei' oh Page: TW"p)' '" :V;
SPORT NUMBER OF PUPPET 
OUT TODAY, KEEN NUMBER
The Sports Number of; the Pypi pet makes ita appeaxonce on the' cnmifus today, reputed:-to^ be the-: best' product of this years,staff.;V •.Anythjng pertaining; to football,.^ cross sountry, r'so.ccer5:': footbail/: necking, or, any other of the 'fall spores-Vflll. receive, ihb.. most; cart-' ' ful attentlpnyiandf iconsl^ewlipn. ; : d^ed.j^duceiiient-t
:pageè;;th^nienÿ;në;^;^ have; beon ,added-. to> thö n^Oarge • staff'; '¿atbotii ÇolÎegeHumof^^vV 
^iieg^Cpmics,tw;a »lleeisuppliçd U^magaiines,':?àre^-^ 
fjBhCAn^ . jy£Sí^T,-':'-rpr.,ihe.: rjght. ;tov.p^ii6^^':^p'píí*$V-:'material T .
•^R^:^!^iV';;^íélit.^e ;aay:;^¿ip^; you:.:want-a-^ he^W^;^laughs, if you want tp: make.ííhltv, - the Ignesoutfe party Vt'h'onw1;lee^jhVviceeh'fS^'C cuU'iíyóú^yó;;éyéh';l)^ 
by,¿;fté^bVÍ-.alWm«l^s^ or no(, Uka home /copy «f th* Sports
*u^*'' Pw"'ï..BIS

---------------------------------------------------

;PAOECAIWfllgTArrÁw
ni6tory I*n>L: Upon what does 
tie tame ot-Roger Williams ret 
iVotce (in tbe hack row): 
founded the Rhode Island Rida.
MOhc. CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE
«liegeby
last word 'In portable ty| writers. .Standard four-r. keyboard. wir
STANDARD TYPEWRITER
cuBsed ht thls year’s ! be tbe paramount Issue of echoiai ship) rusblbg and Initiation,' end : plan to develop regional teroily confereaces.'ln. òli the^prla- clpftl centere of the-cOùntryf :- Tbe conference wlllbe .presided 
over by Hemy R. Johnston, one' cf tho vice-presidents • 6t : the ' Chat- banv and Pbenix bank. a member of pplta Kappa Epelloii from Wil­
liams! The- eecretaxyle Robert' H. Nellson; a well known lawyer, a Delta-Phi from Rutgers. • Dr. H. Sheridan Bakatel, physician'and.ed­
ucator, a Beta TfletaFi rrom Dart­mouth is vice chairman. Es-Judge William- R. Bayes, a Phi Delta Theta from Ohio Wesleyan, is
^addition to tbé sessions of tho Conference, which will take all or Frlday.and Satarday morning, there ie a dinner..of fraternity of- at the Motel Pennsylvania 
Friday night and a dinner ot frater. illy inagaziDé editors at the same ilace . Saturday night. -
FELLOWSHIPS FOR j tut i snnm 1 1 rr &N NFWS FRANCE. GERMA.NÏ I THE t*P.°_flL! I CLAN NEWS
Car/iieg^e Álumni! Here's 
Your Chance to Study on 
• the Continent
BOTH MEN, WOMEN
CARNEGIE DAY
EXERCISES
THE MUSIC HALL
(Continued prom Page One.) 
dltor of-the Rlverelde Educational Xlo&ographs.a member of tbe Insti­tue of International Education and n elector In the Hall of. Fame.Tho.following program has been irranged by the Student Council: Organ ;Preludenezzo l’rom Sixth Syi
[CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That pur-Refreshment En- 
tertainment is moat desir- 
, able for Fraternity and 
ali other School-1 Affairs, 
ezpcriencc ¦will convince. 
Small 'orders rqteeiye the 
same careful, attention, as 
,the . more extravagant
beddings 
a SpecialtyBL
*pY(
Elliott’s 
Two Stores Headquarters For Practical Gift Things
CUarles A, H..Poi
. ;W!doi •22
irchestiii, Department ‘of Muele .dagletto from the finiteVL'Axleslenne" .......... .BlzotInder Direction ot Professor Karl Al Malcherek
:atloii McLeod, D. D. ter. Sliaùyslüe n Church »
;Henry Suzzallo, Ph. : President of Univers; .Washington
President, .Carnegie Institute j Technology Alma Mater ......V. Vick O’BiWords by Charles J. Tayloi Or^n PostluueCarlllon-Sortie ....................M'Professors Blaisdell, Kenley, Kirkpatrick, . Lawler, Swanson, Stanton .anil .Walker are the Fac­ulty Marshals.
( Frai’27, Raymond Walt« Hurd ’27, John Evons .Mueller ’2?. William Hunt Scheick ’27.
There havo always 'beenoppor- 
unlUee .for ouibltlous men'and 
vomen. to continue their post-grad­
uate work in the United States or 
There are more than a 
usual number of fellowships avail­
able during the year 1927-28, ¡Tor 
advanced study on the contlnen 
especially in France and German: 
The fellowships obtainable f< itudy In France are awarded by the Institute-of International Edu­cation in New York. Eoeh will carry a stipend of $1,200 and .will be tenable for one year with possi­bility of renewal for a second year It 'circumstances are favorable. These fellowships are offered WBw tho following fields of study: Agrlcuttui
mercial Engineering, was appointed last week as one of the three' mem­
bers of the new air board.to'ad­minister Rogers Field, the Pitts­burgh clly-county airport in O'Hara.wnship near Asplnwal).-Lieut. Barry Is also first vice president of the Pittsburgh Aero Club, of which he has been a mem ; ber since Its' inception In 1921. He Is an ac^ive pllot and holdB a first
ron of the Ninety-ninth Division.During tbe World War, LIooL Barry .was a; pilot in the'‘Unlted Slaton Army AJr Service, and trained at Barron'Field, Texas, and Langley Field. Va.Barry .spent several years at Car-
> .before the ', buttered
: History of iropology.
Archaeology oi Architecture.Astronomy.
Biology.Botany.Chemistry.Classical Languages and Lltera-
Engllsb Language" and Lltera-
QeogTOphy.Geology. 1History.
Law.Mathematics.Medicine and Surgery. j .Oriental Languages and Lltera-
Philosophy.Physics.Political Science and Interna- tlonal Law.• Psychology.Religion.
Romance, Languages and Lltera- 
Semitlc Languages and. Lltera- 
Slavic Langunges nnd Lltera-
when . tbe U. S. 
tered the war. After the A tice, Barry returned to llalsk 
course.,He was a momber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and was quite active in clasB athletics. He. was secretary and treasurer of the Tech Flying Club, an organization 
Instituted shortly after the war. -
ie during vacations.'.Alunni ' who contemplate npply- for thedc fellowships should » to Carl J. Friedrich, Amer- German 'Student Exchange, lue., Instilute of International Ed­ucation, 522 Firth avenue. New for application blanks and 
specific Information; ai assignments will be made by a Committee appointed by tbe alo of Intel-national Ed- >n alter consideration ot the cts'.of study chosen , by the applicants. Application blanks,
The students finally e fbe ¡permuted tó expr
sé preferences mu: ted byadequatí
.Sociology.
Zoology!A.candidate 
lowships
t the:i Fran«
tlnued From Page One) 
and Sigma Xi, an honor 
ratifie society.
nity. The Seniors were, W- Vaug­han, T: Braatow, and E. Toblasz.- The '.Juniors were represented by'
: fraternity which . calls its I from among the three up-, ssen of the College of Engl- Eta Kappa Nu is a na-
! fel- able
the.following stipulations:(a) ,He must .be'a citizen of the ;Unlted States or one of the United States' possessions..(b) Must ot the time of makii the application'be a graduate of¿zed standing < of. a professional school requiring Ihree ypars.of study for a degree;luallfled ieither 24 year? of
are in work requiring high t 
cal skill. , .(c) Must be of good moral c ter and intellectual ability,
(d) Must have a practical abn-' ,ity .Ip u^e French books, bothidral subjects and in ble o
PLAN'
(Continued From Page One) 
because they will be our profes­sions. Campus activities are very useful because they give more re­sponsibility to us. Social activ­ities, however, are probably .the' moat important, for they are behind both tho .others. The se>ifish man, the hermit, will not succeed. Wo have to live a social llCe. We get only a-very small amount .of first-
All applications must be se the Executive Secretary'of tl slitute ot International Education, 622 Fifth avenue. New York, N. »fore January 1, 1927. Addi information and application 6 also may bë obtained tre
German Student- ic„ Institute of Inti icatlon, New York City, that a limited ni
ny of them « 
Eye Glasses
¦atemity Is like tho pso ' contacts . leach .late you. Joining a ird.lug to Dean Kee-
t.only temporary .dii
.oilier,/and with
Oakland 
Savings ft Trust 
Company
. : Member Federal 
./ v í^ser^e. Sys.téiu. ;
"The Oakland Bank;*
Capital - r .. $300,000.00 
Surplusr - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over 
$5,000,00000
ietd.Theriabsolul
eetabUehed by
German studeni
iiLy, which' im-
CANTON
enry W. Seldou, '10, of 
131$ Tontb street, N. W., enter­tained'guests at .luncheon, Thurs­day, November 12, in her .home, honoring Mrs. Virgil W. Whltmer, a bride of the late summer. . Tbe guests, numbering' eight, were wives of tbe members of the Can­
ton Clan.Bridge was .^layed during the af­ternoon. The guests Included Mrs. M. W. Hatton, Airs. O. C. Heffner, Mrs. J. P. Paca, Mrs. F. L. Sals- giver. Mrs. Kenneth A. Spltler, Mrs. "Whltmer,. and Mrs. James
PITTSDURGH
The Margaret Morripon Evening Bridge held Wednesday eve November 17. at the Carnegie lan, 
was- the greatest success of bridge held up to this time. Thirty 
tables were ln pW, and all pres­ent spent a very enjoyable nlug.. This annual event Is be ig more popular each year, luch 'credit Is due the committee, 
hlch was composed of Irene ack, chairman; Jane Han-old, 
jina Dodds, Bertha Steiner, Mi Ewarts, and Lydia Glock.
New Membier is First Alum­
nus to be Member 
¦ of Board
u, ............ r-w0ns for tho__in order to be considered.
The llortunnte‘ winners of the reign awards will be required'to por,t at the universities *.o which ey. ara assigned at tho official «nine, about October 16. and to 
reside in Germany at least .10 onths.The American German Student Exchunge hopes by tbe .exchange fellowships between tbe United States and German universities to
.ernational friendship between the. wo countries and toj establish - a radltlon of co-operation and rsc- iprocily between them iu the study >t Institattons and psychology of he iwo countries.Carnogle aluranl. should ,<bc eape- laliy. interested In the advantages 
'or etad^ abroad which are of­fered. by these opportunities.
MANOR THEATER
Slanloy-Rowland - Clark’s i 
Tho^ter offers the following pro- 
thls coming week starting 
Wednesday with Mary PIcktord "Sparrows", in ¡which Bhe plays 
the part of Mother Molly t chlldron of.the; baby a great human Interesi and will hold yonr ini 
start to finish. Thursday and Friday Adolph Menjou the dressed man on the screen appears 
n "The Ace of Cads” his latoel riumph. Alice Joyce and Norman ’revor support him and art qually as good in their respective parts. Saturday Harold Lloyd li his greatest comedy triumph “The" 
Freshman" with Jobina Ralston iupporllng him. Monday end 
Tuesday Richard Barthelmess In latest “The Amateur Gentle- ” with a strong supporting and Dick in a perfect role, i selected comedies and news 
its with each change of fea-
Page One) 
t time and : t the-tuitlor ;
itinued Fro 
aatlvely alt view of the fact tl 
Carnegie even unc a smallamount reqalrtd to meet the total i. of ' the school,
i rates are not in any
ther instiiairons of :Jn iact .the increase icen true of all colleges in the past tow years, and t Carnegfe win »ÌQ bly lower than tliat otlior collego in. the east.
(b) Working German.;(c). Ability to &
plies at least ./t American college or uni(d) Ability to do ii atudy and research.(e) Good moral cliai adaptability.(f) Good health.
Preference in selection will be ven to applicants between;es of twenty and thirty vand _ ¦Ucnlarly to those individuals who H shown themselves.' in tlieir munlty and college^lite to be potential leaders in public life. ••• The fellowships are . offered in ic following .fields oDstudy:
Tliooiogy .-Literature' • •; Psychòlogy • / 
History '- : - •..Education/.-';. Iulernatlonal law
-(Continued From Page One.) 
tlon moans that every man on tlii campus can have his name in thi book at least twice, and If he hat influential fiatemity brothers di ii somewhat of a. handshaker, there ie no limit to number of times that his name may be inscribed Directory.
International, national and local clubs will be listed, and the ,d< brothen " copies
ELECTED FOR LIFE
to students of Car­
negie, and of especial Interest to the alumni, is the announcement of Frederick R. Cogswell’s elec- le Board of Trustees of Carnegie Institute. Mr. Cogswell elected to life membership on the -board which administers the 
itltule. including the Library, Music, -Fine Arts, Museum, and.i' Tech 6’chool.Mr. Cogswoll has tbe dlstlncti of being the first graduate of Car­negie Tech-to-be placed upon the 
board of trustees. He has..served since December, 1924. upon is known os the Tech School inittoe, but which 1f not as i 
ral part- of the hoard. He the place on tbe board left vacant by the death recently of Judge 
Shafer.In atempllng to concur with the 
wishes of the Alumni Association and the Alumni as a whole, the board is to be complimented on its selection of'Mr. Cogswell as the new member. Mr. Cogswell's inti­mate association with tho affairs of the Institute for tbe past few years makes him well fitted for a place on the board.Mr. Cogswell graduated in 1912 In the Department of Eloctrlcal 
Engineering. While In school, his chief activity, was In the manage­ment of athletics. He was Treas­urer ot the Athletic Association during the period of reorganiza­tion of athletic' affairs. He -was nlso a membor of Theta XI frater­nity.with the ipony inHe became count Pittsburgh Railway:1910, :two' years befpro his gradu­ation and remained with this com­pany otter his graduation, until now he hold6 the position of Di­rector of Traffic Promotion.
During the World War, Mr. Cogswell served with the Fifty- third Infantry, - Sixth- Division. , In ie he rankod as captain, and then as adjntonL.... Cogswell takes bis place onthe hoard wilh the. well wishes of both the student body and the larger "group.of
STRANO THEATER
q'akland/hi id ^unusually
th,e Strand Theater, interesting »gram ahead of. them .this coming ,w?ek; starting Wednesday with Mary PIcktord in "Sparrows'' her latest and great-, it saccess Of all times.Picture. Mary as Mother Molly of the ten little, ill treAted chll- ren on the baby farm. A great
ind Friday Bebe Daniels In “The !ampns Flirt" the greatest college topy .ever barring none. • Picture fefcre as the snob just home from Jurope and how she changes from be'moBt unpopular girl in Colton College to the most poptflar. Sat-!iyd in his most popnTar comedy, sucesa “The Freshman.” . Be sure and see Haf- ild as the great gridiron star, you wQf raogh. and laugh and laugh. ~Don’t miss it. - Monday , and Tues- iay “The Eagle iof the Sea," Frank Lloyd's greatest sea picture since 'The Sea Hawk"' starring two ot
Vido/ sirites Ricardo Cor-
SCHENLEY
SWAILLE ANNOUNCES
SCIENCE STAG CHAIR­
MEN AND COMMITTEE
.Tiie:;'fellowBhlpa Tor study in Germany-;çoyër tuition,bbard and lodging' during .thé 'acadomlc year atid are tonaible for on<i y.cnr. Stu- 
dènU;to lwhqm the feUowBhips are award^^wui-'.be¿'.«¿i^cteidrlto'iu^ ^ìa.h'r:,aÌBÌ ramo^t .oti^ •uÄl- t for .traTellng erpenset to iad
.(Continued -From ! 
provided -practically s for ]iim3elf.Carnegie’s will be on ha talks; movies
! show'
popular men 1) the .best of
grains, and favors^ .-will'- be parsed around-^in short, nothing will he' lacking .that could' possibly cons ti- .k'lng - of this stag
Scler
u*ual-.(ountaln ptn wrvlee by catl­ing ; at tile . bran'ci) 'vjitorë .-'of .QIngiir Pen- .«nd .Glft Shop, )^0. - 3»f1 
ydMgh ptr«et,.'8eh«nley Apartment felocli, er 4h« Main ttor* In Jonk- ta» Arcada.
Anniversary week iu the ScHen- ley Theater, Forbes street, Oak­land district, Is coincidental with -Thanksgiving Week. Consequent­ly, in celebration of this double event. General Manager Harry Davis has arranged a particularly fine line-up of motion pictures and stage .entertainment. Monday and Tuesday, November 22 and 23, 
brings Lon Cbaney in his -wonder­ful picture, “Shadows." Wednes- day and ' Thursday. November 24 and will bvlng tlie massive pro­duction, "The Lily” whfeft has been aciiioying a sensational cess. It is. 'Considered a particu­larly fine choice for/the hoNday. Friday and Saturday, November 
id 27, will, see the screeningot ‘f Apriunder t DeMllleCecil B. with. ; Josepr Schlldkran Love, Rudolph Schitdki Bryant ' Washburn.' . A- special 
added attraction throughout tho week la the Grant and Wail: vue presenting a company^ c er. singers; .dancers and - mental musicians. Mondi Tuesday,' iioyember 2? and 3.0, ^111 
.bring - ‘•Prlvatè' lazy Murpliy wondorful ' picture ot mirth, mànce and .heart ..throbs. : v
j.tnke-Persìi-
isal>l<
to. giva- the • order There is no need for more uz forms at present, as the membei of the band steadily drop ont afU Itfr the football teai r. Owing to the fa< iber will go home. i
ment parts wIIT bo pra< soou, and there-is irttre do' lhat the band- will Be fully equipped)>-lng. a; havThese difficulties, ot 1 marred thé . success of the and. In fact, Director E. F. Sul­ivan, considéra . this band a very r-ell-baldnted group. The KfTtreascelved an < t the. out;of-t.athui¡epllo
irmistice day, the Klltfes one of the largest bamlo ii ade. Directly' in front o: the Carnegie band .was tbe West Bag-pipe ba.nJr .the tw< wond'erñiT appearance, rsals áre being directed •k. lii pitlon for thetnlng .
ndia.niJooRftrg 
ward to t'ho aunual trip .State Normal', where’ thé KfTtie and' the - Normal. School . baud’ wii combine1 for concert wortr.
(Cpntluued Fr.om Page One) 
clent force—all tend toward snccess of 'the finest Arts Ball in the history of Carnegie- .From the Wodlawn avenue en trance of the building,.the-ylslioi to the court of Russia will pas: Brat throoglt the dungeons of th< Volga castle. Ae he follows the wfading. stairways upward and in to the Gordon of Light, he will fim
FEL or promenade, richly décorât ed with elegant tapestries and con iinental finery. High over hea( throbbing strains of thunder musli will lure' him through tjie. .vaulted archway and Into the r.oyai palace court. * T,o the right will be !a sec­ond brilliantly arrayed courtroom and on the left heavy doors ¦ wlli .open into tho palace audito^um. -pownstalrE.-. Ju the spacious ban­quet halis, rich food and drink will await the. opportunity to refresh the' royal revellers/ :The Spirit .of the old Russia 'tyili dominate • .the ..entire -, Ball in-’ • xità every phase and feature.-. aud the reyoli\Uonary: . influence of this, theme . Is 'remarkably, noticeable tUroijEhout; the Plans and arrange-, ments that ,are. rapidly ; being - de- '•-loned.- to .perfection/
CRAIG AMD 
FOBBES
Hardware Paints Electrical Supplies
OAKLAND HARDWARE CO.
IROQUOIS 3606 FORBES STREET
ê>i«ô?nts
FOR YOUR NEXT
FORMAL AFFAIR
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE . ''
Day Grant 2604—PHONE—Night Lafayette 4791-R
STANLEY-ROWLANO-CLARK'S
MilMQi
Wednesday. Noveinber 24 Thursday and FridayMary Pickford
“SPAjtRQiWS*t
November 25 and 26Adolphe Menjou
“Tbe Ace OS Cods’*
Harold Uoyd
“The Freshman”
Monday ând Tuesday November 29 adn 30 .
RICHARD BARTHELMESS
“The Amateur 
Gemtlesnan”
STEAM»
Mary Pickford 
OWSHIWIPWR
Thurofox and,Friday.Bede Daniels
“The CaEopiBB Flirt”
Harold Lloyd
“The jS
"THE EAGLE OFTHE SEA”Florence Vidor’* Ricardo Cortez
Schenley Theater
Continuous 2 to 11 P. M. HARRY DAVIS, GeneralMost Beautiful Nelflhborhood Theater In Pittsburgh.
“THE OLY”
FRIDAY. AND SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 26 AND 27.
«¥OUN© APRIS.”Cecil B.. DeM.llle’e .lataet euc^ess-with 
JOSEPH SCHlLDKRAUTj BESSIE LOVE, RUDOLPH.SCHLLDKRAUT AND BRYANT.WASHBURN . V 
Saturday Matinee—“THE RADIO-.DETECTIVE/' Serial.
ADDED ATTRACTION ' ALL WEEK
THE GRANT and WALLACE REVUEsentation. < ntalMualcClever Artlets Iintatlpn. of Singing, OandniS)
MONDAY AND TUESDAY,.NOVEMBER 29 A^D 40“Private Izzy MucphyHwith: •. —
GEORGE JESSEL, PATSY RUTH MILLER, VERA GORDON, NATT CARR
Qrophecy—
On icot runy day, you will turn. 
down your hat and thank God
CLOTHES "
Raady*mado 
- And Cut 1« Order ^ 
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNtVEASITV] 
STYLES; TAILOREO OVER YOWKFW.1 
CHARTS SOLCLY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.'
®K%rt«v House
........... ..... _ 4
?y SPECIAL APPOINTMENT ^ 
OUR STORE IS THE
V Representative '"for. BltteburQh'4 :> Next'Display at'.william Penri^Hotel THURSDAY AND FRIDAY; DECEMBER 2 AND 3
The character of the suits and:
.. overcoats tailored by.Charter House • - 
will earn, your most sincer.e liking;' ;
. MORRIS’S

---------------------------------------------------

Sports Spasms
• Carnéele Tech II team that I» the notbear cor p rtferit gavthe all-powerful Riti ¡udent body. Just-v '
CARNEGIE, NOTRE 
DAME MEET SAT.
Immense Throng Expected 
To St^B SkiboB Battle 
National Champs
Swimming femt Cmd ktttes 
Practicing Dally at Pool
Class Meet To Be Held Decem­
ber 11, To Select Teams - . 
On December 4.
great city of Pittsburg.'¦ . RITZ DEFEATED 14-0Rite eleven loses to Carnegie. Tech.-Yesterday, afternoon.'In ,the new .7,000,000 dollar Rite stadium the. strong RIU eleven was held «corelees by a brand of football tha‘ surprised.and startled.the great, Rite tearrsolved the.ball v
plaÿ—«f the Ritt . ______-full yard—picked up another two__- play+-ran-wild aroun^ the Carnegie left
_ . . .... * flrvt•ough the opposing line for almost.ailte easily ci well «
> the'-opposlngtal most; two• yarde—
IheRltz 35iyard line, left end for 9 'yards ai This Rite, line has'been picked bys east as the .........................Pittsburgh pe
who, received 
>pped
»etest si net
play Goodwin ' ie out'was calle illow.the Carnegie team tò. ac¦only 18 to allow and magnitude of the opposing1 team then
handily stopped i
yards but h . . "On^th who happei
managed to.kick goal.
, stopped by the Rite Gibraltar'Ina Play.Juge Wally Stef
' coachlng,- 
sry little.
gained another 11 
r Chicago, Illinois,
> ffiory in. This marveLteam ol d cannot'we men, ançj even we it such splendid publicity? Aye
(other; touchdown. Harpstei
Rite University—
md for
HOLD FIRST COAL
CONFERENCE AT 
' V . CARNEGIE
•ronllaued From Page One) outstanding subjects presented.¦ .Th'7 conversion of coal Into oil 
Is more particularly a European problem owing; to thé scarcity of natural oil in Europo. In connec- . lion with the policy of "conserving supplies of natural oil, however, it Is also or Interest to the United States. Of tlie three methods of obtaining oil from coal, one, name­ly destructive distillation of the 
CÔàl iB already well-known; but the quantity. of oil obtainable by this process 16 small In proportion
'Male .piano dent, i
' lar per hour.
1 piano fairly- well,' by a vocal i - • 3 Bongs on '
STUDENT SUPPLISSI 
C.M.STAUFT
FORBES AND BOQUET STS. 
OAKLAND
4605 FORBES ST. (Near Craig)
BUTLER’S
POR BBTTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET Wé Deliver All Orders.J. O. BAKER, Manager• 7644
First Chufch of Christ! 
Scientist \Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue Sunday, U. A. M. and 8 P. M. Wednesday, 8 P. M. i Sunday School,' 11A. M.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing; CRAIG AND FORBE9 STS.
Be'giimers Monday* and Fri­day • ^Eybnjngs^. Advanced, Thursday and : Saturday -Evenings. - Private lessons
THE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLACET. FOR j
SNAPPY CpLLEQIATE TOGS 1 
; '4¿Í8!/¿ FOpBES STREET !
Fitzsimmons
Restaurant
i 120 OAKLAND AVE.
5’ Special Meals and ;: 
Kates to {Students
CRAIG 
¡RESTAURANT
..'412 SOUTH CRAIG vSTREET .
Try Our 
Regular Dinners ; 
. ‘ 40c and 50c
to’ the amount of coke .produ< simultaneously, and the process therefore only, applicable wit) >ertaln limits.
A second method starts i ’rom products of gasification he . coal, '. particularly water-g rom which alcohols and hytl corbons can be produced .e thellcally.by passlng.the gas, eltl at ordinary or under high pressi over suitable catalysts. At pt ent this' proc<* Is only. likely, to successful . commercially If Blrirted' to ' the ';manufacture methanol and products of relatl ly high commercial value. The Iremely careful purification wh the gases' must undergo prior contact • with the catalyst adds greatly to the cost of the proc that-the method Is scarcely worth copsideratjon as a. means of pi diiclngcheap liquid fuels.
The third method, the so-called Bergius process, Is based oi
400-500 degrees, the compoun high molecular weight of which the coal is.composed, are split up into Btnaller groups which are ca­pable, without the intervention of i catalyst, of combining .with hy­drogen to form saturated, com- pounds.' In this manner, a complex mixture of- liquid hydrocarbons is formed—similar . essentially ... to mineral oil;' Also, In smaller Quan­tities gas on the one hand and pltchrllke products on the other.Tbe fundamental reaction was c served .as: ]ong:sgp;ss 1913, but t technical :developmental the pi cess emended’over nearly 10 yeai iThe main, difficulties were encou tered in attempting to render the 'process completely contln
Field In the final .game.of the son. It wlU be a solemn! occasion 
>r: several. of. tbe Tartans, who 111 /be fighting lor tbe glory of Carnegie for' the last timé. - Bill Donohoe, Mike Goodwin, BUI llan- by, and - -Lloyd Ycder<;wlll write finis. on their college footballca- 
brUliont as any in Car­negie history. And' ' tiiese. four icn in particular will fight theu ¡ry. heads oil to finish up right. f winning from Noire Dame., 
Tbe /'Fighting Irish” will come 
here , with what 16 perhaps the best team in their history, unbeat­en and aiming for the National Championship. Natnndly, ¦ they doped'to win. but that.does mean a thing, for many a 
Plaid team has copped cv game ’hlch. it- was doped to lose. Two years ago,-when Knute Rockne 
bis “Pour Hprsemen,” they to Pittsburgh figuring on an easy victory, and got á scare which they have not yet forgotten. Their vaunted running attach failed to approach the Tartan goal 
while the ‘'spinner" end a one pulled by. Ben Krlstof the Sklbos 12 points in the halt However, Stuhldreher and his mates' «ssayed a basket* tbe second half, and pulled the game out of the fire. '• 
Noire Dame has proved Its xength this year by downing orthwestern. procpectlve Big Ten champs, by a 6-0 score, . and' by 
Immlng Army’s greatest' team 7-0. In Flanagan, Rockne has one of the speedtest ball carriers , extent, is proved 'by bis 62-yard dash 
touchdown against the Army. Carneglo followers who journeyed South Bend last yíar have no difficulty la remembering this gen- lemán, who'time and again tore 
>ff long gains against the Tartans.But the realiy tough part of it 1t that Flanagan Is just one of a at horde, of stars on the Notre
these problems upon as solved. As was necessary to construct pumps which would be capable of forcing the coal continuously into reac
lhAn 200 atmospheres.
Today the liquccactlon of co a fully developed technical cess producing not only oils of
nia, lii large? quantities < than are obtained by the' destructive distil Iailon: of coal. A . special process lias been developed for the manu­facture of the necessary hydrogen, at a sufficiently cheap , rate, from the gaseous hydrocarbons produced 'by^ the Bergln proceai
One ton; of bituminous coal will ield an average *pf -140 gallons of ¡I.\ Dfiductiag tbe coat consumed i the .process' the net yield ts 104 gallons per ton of coal. Of Uils, 35 gallous consist of aromatic com? pounds, suitable for "no .knock“ and thp remainder is gasroll, lubricating oil and fuel oil. The problems of -hlgh pressure, cpntlnuous .feeding of ! coal, re­moval ¡of; residue and temperature conti ol have' been ' solyed. A method of maniifiacture of hydro: gen bas been, worked out employ­ing- the gaseous by-products in the llquefacilon of tbé coal ltaélf. ÈK: cppt 'antbraclte, nearly-ali grades of ijgnite and coal', èapecially screenings; .can lie liquefied." "Sòme mìllióna of dollars and 12 iarspf.research
coalsMnajte the liquefaction of
In -.thie' discussion of carboblza; tion;.it .was shp\Tn that the belief tilat '.the dlr.ect': consumptiou of fiiel lilgh' in y.pjatile such .^a many bituminous'cpeja^ is: rapidly gaining. ground. As: a result of this opinion which ap- paara to 1)e' well founde'd much tention isvheliiig: given; to the' j s|bllltles pf ecooomii^ily remov a,ppr.tlpn of the volaUle: inatenala ’from .cpaL prlpr ' fp ^bwnlng; '• • 'Thei;tf:'arp>Yof 'course; many pus';advantages:.of ^ucli: 
dur.e. the ^principal- obstMjes.;belng
giVen-'prc
‘GEORCGIANSC‘ 7TO GOP LC7TO
Men’s, $6 00—Color Giey. 
iWomcn ’b, $650- .Colors: Blue, Lilac, Qieen and 
red.Aufhammer and Evans
ai
,100P^AVEMUE_
Candidates for the varsity' and freshman swimming teàma have 
been busÿ practicing at .the pool- sliace CoacS-Beukema. issued Isis 1 several w«eks ago.. In order to t tbo cailber of 'those already , and to bring other prospects und, it has been decided to hold on ' lhterclass meet on December 
11-The.program will consist of.the ual list of evehts. Inciudlng' 
sprints, longer distances, relays, and diving, and anyone is eligible i compete.The tryouts to determine who will swim on tne ciass teams will n off at thé pool on Saturday, December 4. All men Interested in 
immlng are' requested to report Coach Beukentà àt once.The men who show, up well In the-most will be given considéra tionvln the selection of varsity and freshman teams. Letters and nu­ls will be awarded this' yesi he members of these teams,1 end the varsity will probably take trip.' Under these conditions ere is no reason why every plmmer In Bchool should’not be it for the tuam.Colin Mcllnnes, a senior In In- istrles. is the varsity manager, 
and Robert Giles is' Freahman iRg^r.. Jim Hughes and Boobel 
the first assistants.
Damthisstill works hlB old trick of starting second team, then sending In regulars, and finally the third and fourth eleven's, any one of i a class' A football outfit
'ever, the Irish have not yet ear faced a team like them- , a light, fast machine with a good forward'pass attack, and It llhin the realm of possi­bility that they may be beale Saturday. The Camegle: team ’1th the szceptlon' of Melzine; i good physical -çondlUpn a the hard won. victory over ^Weqt Virginia last'' Saturday, • and. irlug. tp: spUl the dppe bucket 
?it- SaturdHy. : • - •. ^ .
The ticket sale for. the game has beea so brisk that Baddy Ovrfrend predicts a record crowd for Satur- iwever, & number of good i as yet unsold, and those wanting to get them may. still d< 
o by placing their orders Imme liately at the Graduate Manager’s ifflce In thé gymnasium. The ients will uso the .bleachers which lave h.nsn erected. atong the side­lines, thus being ablp to ee< 
game better than from .the heretofore used, in thé grands
perts on the snioke Probli id lhat in cities where n ilnous coal must be the basis of fuel supply, smoke abatement i achieved only by the closest, supei i ot melhode. and equipmenl educational effort,, and the mot Hw 
Uplanting vigilance in following up operation.
This iu effect, impos 
immunities, based oi il location, which tax f:m have spen fit to pay. Thus' progress has ii.een slow ' and, 
ng as.the necessity of using raw ¿1 exists, it will remain so.Hope' of complete smoke abate- ent\' under . present conditions ets mainly with the lorge plant;' id the Smoke problem of the fu- ire Is Ihe problem of the small heating plant . .. !
While the' great mass, of the peo­ple kpow nothiug of improved methods op firing, there aré, as a t£or of'fact, standard methods that have been developed for handling soft coal ^rhlch will bring ?ut a great Improve; 
t Is possible to reduce visible oke '7C per cenl wlth thosV ithodd .wllhout alteration' of fur- ces-or change of .fuel, otherl'ln Itself hardship; .Inasmuch as the] ally cost less .money./; • ' > 
small resldentiai areas'' when live educational . effort . haj 
made smoke densities have 'been readily reduced 60' 'to' 60 pei
discussion of smokeles: fuels brought out that gas, sem^ :olte and coke’are' smokeless fuels made' ¡from , bituminous coat at, f
pppfatlng 'and fpi plant investment but pue arising also. from losB of total avaliable freab. in the products.' • 
r1-It. ts . necessary,' ^therefore; to;I cotnponsate these "losses by an eotvj hancfld unit value, in- the product! 
and . byproducts, and:' establish .{ niargln for - tiroflt an^ contingent
the Plaid clev«
> of'the beet tines In the
In speaking of the great work of the Carnegie line, It Is interest' ing to note that-the Sklbo goal>lln»’ has been crossed but-twice- this«- year. This in itseU Is a-record to be proud of. when'one considers the caliber of the teams'that the Tar tana have encountered. Adrian, U.. Juniata and West-Virginia wero all al line wlth-W. & J. the'only one that wns > onty hoped that the great detonse work, vllt continue :through nert Saturday to offset the terrific drlvo of the “Fighting lrish”.from Notre Damo. ,
Carnegie schedule V with a spotioM do'battle, while the Cnrneglo squad pasted this season. T favorite. But bigger
CARNEGIE ISEASY WINNEROVER‘WEST VA.
(Continued From Page Oho) est form in the third.period. They more stubborn on the defen­sive and Ryan and Keefer were naklhg. Inroads into Carnegie teir- Itory,. although they got no forth- ir than tbe Tartan 30-yard line.- In the- fourth period' Donohue icorod his, second touchdown oh a :lever pieco . of running.' Follow- ng a punting duel bolween Hai> iter and “Sleepy" Glenn.'the Scots, vere In possession .of the ball on heir, own 30-yard line. Mefort iwunfc into action and on three luccessive plays, carried the. ball veil into Mountaineer territory, ^efzelter kept boring and boring through five yards or more at a. time, and .then Dohohuo dashed oC first «own on' the ¿hre&ryard marie At this stage an- emed Imminent; on the fourth down, however, there vere still five yards Intervening o the goal posts, apd Bill -Donohue vns sent around the cpd.' Enemy 4icklers seemed -Crowding In on ill sldos,; BUI changed, his course, deftly crossed up a couple of tbem,- ihd sild over the tinal chalk line.' Letzelter added the\ extra point. Defensively,. Captain Lloyd- Yi
here, - there,- and .'doing'-the • right:thing at-the t time.' Goodwin and Tony ^Bo adepb at breakingrlgi Sw«up thB'Móüntáinéer attach Carnegie Tech—20. West Va.—0Sweet' ...... ..L B....... MurrinMelalnger .^..L. T:........ :LpughCowan .........L. G. ‘ (C) McHenryManhy
Mefort  ......R. B......... GarrettHarpstor .......Q... ..... KeeferDonohoe .......U H........ ,Ryan7oodwln .....H.H.......... GlemMorrlsoiby quarters:Carnegie 13 0.0 7—2i; Substitutions—English for .- Me-, fort,: Mefort for Engllsb,. Meyers fot Melslnger, Patrick for Murrin, Lough, Loughi for Nixon, Ballard' for. Gairott. Hamilton foi Ryan; Jonnewlne for Lewis.
.^etzeltei
Touchdowns—L<
Missed go Letzelter. -. Time : of
, Donohoe
Officials—Crowell, Swnrthmon feree; Sharpe, Yale, umpire 
Very, Penn -State, linesman;- Mòi flt, Plnceton. fleld judge.
CARL SANDBURG. POET, SUMMARIZES HIS BOOK <DN ABRAHAM LINCOLN
(Continued UTom fage One) the character of Lincoln iu . i phrase, “a strange friend and a lendly stranger.¿Ci\ through his talk, Sandburg 903 essentially the poet, hot - an irator; He Is master of the ver mcular, in which, lie related: hli itorieS'' about Lincoln' and which Lincoln'told. He .Is compUtely sympathy with the man of whloi he spoke that we. f<>el no. other man could lia?e so adequately and reverently- expressed so great life:
capital to cover promqUori and the 
risks of ruarketvuncerlalnty,’ inter­ruption of operations, price fluctu- atlori, etc., tiiey are unwllli'ug to go far in iaying out capital.. The Incentive presented by the products of low temperature bonlzatlon pf coal, has not reachèd such , a margin. , ; It mfry- come when -the. ; puWlc. demands the virtues of thpse products«lien.ofbrought lpw<
• The 'usa of gas eas a.rdomesUc ligating a^ent.wni g^ow rapidly lt^ prico la -reduced .thrpugh siiltat bie cháñséa. in' ra^y^^^^ 
quality'standards,, and.-by . use larve 'coptral prpduclng sUtipi
STUDENT CALENDAR
TUESDAY." NOVEMBER 23 • ¦ :M.^CarneQle. Day Exercises.. . . . .Carnegie Mi
. THURSDAY.'NOVEMBER 25 -TH^KMrVlNOMCESSBEG|NS\
- FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 26 8:00 P. M.—Football Dance-. - -8ATUPDAY.VNOVEMBER27 2 00 P M — Nolra Dpme Gameuu isnmr&N[CLATGtTceaoIty Rushlpg perlod^Begln*.
On the Plaid Screen
By wiuuiAM R. BERNARDI
Field .this year. The' 1
powerful. Mountaineer elevi
arty part of this seat
ind of football tivlouely this year.' To-Donohve and' Lctsetter- (joee victory, but let'iis not forget Harpstor and Goodwin
r. days away. The Notre Dami
i Carnegie victory .season ci upsets. Prepare yourself for the she liable as riot that. Carnegie wilt ^>s t*ie conquerors oT Rochno's gre^t team from Soiithi.Bend. ¦
Donohue’s clever run for the last, touchdown was a thriller to say the: least He appeared, to be tackled three or tour times but by squirming and twisting ho stayed dear and croaeud tho last chalk mark standlngjip. . i ¦
Notre Ii 'In this
i of the pteb'e footbal
medy and Sohmld should make good ;ball team while Hendereon. Talbert, tvelcomo additions to Coàeh Halforty’e
PIGSKINPICKUPS
The gridiron season 1t fust lasBing from ' the active to the lentlmental stage.-'The,time when 
men loquaciously replay In : a pulseless manner all the lm- lortknt game of the . season. [*he time when the sportswrlt- 
bW bewail tho . effrontery of iome sterltng athlete to graduate vhen they (Kniite) hftve only 14 lubs for hl6. position. The time when Kiltie’s knees no longer dwadle gently In thé breeze.Our game with Notre Damo *nd the Army-Navy game Tu Chicago
itb treated i Saturday, overwhelm-
heartening. Wost Virginia waited 
irs. for that defeat; let's hope
carried the ball. at the beginnlng of, tbe- second half' made, one wondar
. after, too trniny excursions •.Tartans gre^r tired', of his ika and stopped him dead. -
tt did not play so their team Invited to come over .and see tain they had beaten' by the . e of 17 to .7 trimmed more thoroughly as is the wont of the. 
mpsging Sklbos.,Kicking goals . after touchdown means winning. gameB these days, Michigan tied with Northwestern tbe Western Conference, title 
when they won/over Minnesota 7 6, and Ohla State beat' Illinois 
by the'same Bcore.
It.was ^oraecpmlng day in South and, and Rockne . had hls^ Four Hundred around to meet; Dr's^e- LB.usual the .vlsitora were cpurie:. iusly received, sho.wn about the campus and then taken out to the fleid. , Yfh.cn-th.e game, was o'er 
the hoys from Drake'examlned the board to And eheniselres on the debit side of a 21 to 0 render-' Those playful Irlah! !
Alaskan elimination ended tho winning streak of the eastern-;o the «tune of 15 to 7. When they.! passed . through Pittsburgh 
yesterday it was reported that one <! the University players had been 
rdrined ..up..'
Pop Warner's Leland - Stanford team knocked a nugget or two oil California’s Golden. Bes>s when they cinclicd the Coast Champioi 6, Andy Smith ,iuu< d oyer in bis grave.
Lafayette'closed an undefei iason. wlien Wllsou, leading :orer of thé east, ran wild for irea touchdowns, against Lehigh.
Army and Navy won.their games 
against tqinor colleges- and' wait for tlie Titanic Struggle tliis weelc. Sijme of the- seals sold for.|2,000.
3t'bo a lot-Warmer than at the Dreyfuss Plant . •uld .suggest that the Kli-
Good Old Ktltlei
Fresbmen Victorious In 
Girls’ Bowling Tournament
Well |ts over, and with the Freshmen on tbo. top, too.. The bowling tournament held on Tues­day and. Wednesday of lost wooh won by them In a. very de­cided, manner. Their score was 984 points for three ' games per r. . The Seniors wero next a score of 880, followed by the Juniors with -829 points In theJj favor nnd last, the. Sophomores 
witli 790 poluls.
j teams wore composed of the following girls: 1
Freshmen: Sky, O'Donnell,Power, Ulrich.
Sophomore: Dlxson, Roy, Zenk, Reed.Juniors.: Timms, Rlegler,- Ma­thias, Servlck.Senior;. Clark. Douglas, Lenlng- ton, Milligan.
other side.—Ex.
PLEBE GRIDDERS 
END FAIR SEASON
Win Three; Lose Pouc to 
Local Opponents With 
:Very Good Teams
The record for the Plebe season; which ended Thursday,. Is as';tol‘ lows:
Carneglo .....................V.V,.!.• 0Slippery Rock.......;............13-Cornetrte ....i*..............i i8' Cathedral Pr^p '......... 0Camogle •................................ 0
W. & J. FMBh..............10Carnegie ............................... 0Pitt Fresh .;...............10(^Lmegie' .................25
St Vlnceut’s .........:............ 0Carnegie ......................... 12. :Kiski ..............................aaCernegiè .......J.......20
- Calltornla Normal ............ 6This record is far.from impress­ive, especially in viow of tlie rec­ord made by. their Immediate pré* decessors, tlio undefeated Plebe outfit of 192C; but lb nearly all. cases, the score does not indicate the closeness of the gsmos lost, thVnotable example of Lhls belug the KisKi game, tho prep sohool boys winning because of getting some lucky breaks, and because of. several misplays on.the part of tbe Plaid Yearlings.: -Klski eleo .de­feated Dean, Eastern Champs, 20-0.
On tho whole, football' support­ers at Carnegie feel ^ttiBfied, for. several promising lads have been, uncovered-, for future varsity loams. Tho chief shortcoming, of the Pleb^s was their incurable tendency to. fumblov whlah was evident in all games played.
The. team consistod of Captain Bowers and Glathart, ends, who playoir consistently good ball all season. • Both are very.'good de* fenslye men. while Bowora is somewhat better offensively, on tbo !‘end around”, play. Thsse boys should make strong bids' for varsity bertha nest your,
• At tackle,. Schmidt, Terlna ai^d 
Nunnslly 1 perfompd .very- accoptà- bly. Schmidt PLt injurod .In a mid season game, aftur which Nun- nally performed rogularly, huit nil three are about on a par, and will, make things interesting for the 
varsity linemen at Tralulng camp
.' The guards, wero Smith,’ Bowser and Griffiths, who with Haug, cen­
ter,. made .things 'rathçr tough for opposing backs who came their way. Qriffltbfl also made a mighty good-center when\the occaslon .de-
The . Backs wero Hayes, Lefler,'
PrellBlDirr Mfe Try­
outs Fired Last Week
Final Triftli How Progmriny; 
To H&vo Plebe Team.
All men .who; wish to try'put for 
.the rifle toaarwlll find-it. advisable , 
to do so at1 once, since this la tba 
second week of tlie: preliminary:' 
trials 'by which tho team - Is chosen." 
The. first , varsity match Is: to be 
held immediately; after Thanksgiv* 
ing vacation; Looklns over'the re* 
suits of lost week’s trtels, we find 
the’ foltowltos; mén- wltt. hlgh- 
scores: C. H. Wtmthorell, 37G; W. 
R.' Si’oadner, S7S; IL E. 'Baynë.v, 
362;: A. M, Fisher, 3DG; and G.: W. 
Fisher, 355. Due to the fact that 
Rhoades lins-loft school, Campbell 
Is now- president of thoTlfle^olubi Perhaps there' are ' Freshmen. who do . hot know thnt there is'to be a plebo team thls;year and who,’ cohaequeutly,. have’ 'nob ' tried, out -for the team. ' Thor© dre a good many matches slated for thé 'plebe- team, however, and there are-still' several vacancies to he filled. Candidates will pleaso report this :
- Tho Bcoree turned In by.the girls, compotlug for the trophy 'cup lost . week, indicate that tho^women wlU have' a very good. team. this. year. The Freshmen girls, especially; havo heen- turning. In. excellent, scoresi The. first match, for; the 'womens' tétun will occur during ' the.-week,éei)ocemhér.lli •
Mprblto, Kennedy, and. Herbst. Hayes Ynsv.inJurod ln.; ihe: flnsfc game, with.’slippery Rock, and waa unablo’ again to play until-'the.' flnnl game. Howover; he looks ' liko a mlghty good for tho var* .elty ;next -year., Leiler. played’, a .. steady game at the- defenslye; halt-: back position. Morblto-proved; to bo a ygry coDsIstont ground galn: er, bolng. a good line. p)iwgor,. and 
also possesssd of enough speed to.
the regular slj^l barker: after' Hayes wasTinJiired; and starrod in- 
every gume, IfO inaJn desot bolng his ,speed on; end runs,; Herbst; ; fullback, was thiB'p^jaato of-.the. backfleld. : At.tlmos. ho played ,re^. tball,. .»earedsure: of himself,’ He should. make a; strong bid for a varsity .'Job liext. year, If he plays cohsUtentiy.. - On.’ the -whole, ¦ Coach Al Irwin 
deserves a lot'of credlt for-.the un­covering oC some good futuro var* :. 
slty material, as .. dees Manager Lyle, Sheppard . for. his.-' efficient work at., the Heldhouae and on trip?. . •
We Have Learned That it is ^ 
Better to Use :
idles Rent a Car Service
For . All Occasions •
THREE STATIONS :
'0107 Bread Street ' -. ' 60S Sixth Avenue. Hlland .1300; ..;':'Grant..1900.
129 Seventh'Street i -Sludeut' Pasaos; Iasuod; al
?1NQTRÊ DÀMÉ’S”.4* REGORD TO DAI
* Noire : Dame' ;V.. - - V. ;Beloit .......v..........* Nôtre Dame :^ •/ '•Minnesota .•itV'Np.tréV Dame ’-. !
•ÏV'Penn'State íriNci.reÍDáme.’?.I./,•:: .Northwestern¦ •.
4'Notre ;Dame'.;\1.. .. Ï2 ?';v;;'^^ô^àTTe«:'fi .- P'.*•fcVNotr'e Dame . . iI-.'... ‘ 26 * f^Vl-Ìntìàn^:v^-t •¿''NÓtre'‘Dama'v..y....".. ; .‘.;.' ^7;<*:
i. ^^Arm^ ,'0 .Ì1. ¦î*.Noire Damé"''.'...+ Dra^e 0 *+ + * + * •?+ + * + + *+ + ? +
Everythings\^
qoinqtobe
all right
THAT’S the way P. A. talks to you in the bowl 
of a pipe. This , great: national gloom-chaser 
stabs ihe darkest clouds with a ray of sunshine. 
Buy a tidy red tin of Prince Albert, today and 
see. Tamp a load of this ’b,endly tobacco into 
your jimmy-pipe and light up.
Cool as a subrcellar.. Sweet as the breath of 
fresh-cut violets. Fragrant in the tin and fra­
grant as you smoke it. Never a tongue-bite or 
a throat-parch. mild you can hit it up from 
t sun-up to sun-down, yet witha body that satisfies 
completely.
There’s iqore philosophy in a pipe-load of 
P. A. than in the average Doctor-s thesis. No 
matter, what brand- you are. smoking now,: you. 
don’t know how much your. jimmy?pipe can 
mean to-you: until you pack it with good old 
. Prince Albert, Get started nów; >
Fringe Albert
-?bo other tobacco is (ike vil/-':

---------------------------------------------------

mmà
ï&(&n»5ttîàmn“RUSHING SEASON**
Pitta tro rah Ferai 0
•I. EDITORIAL STAFF '
Editor-In-Chief ..........;....,.... .Menili -HolllnsheadManaging Editor..........................Sam, .WellNews 'Editor................................. .Fronds Kolb -Athletic. Editor.... . ; .V. ¡William -R. Bernardi 
V ' CONTRIBUTING -EDITORS, .
• Tölimadge "" •' Robert M.,FewRbssell-Bulllnger Ralph .Hitchcock•Harold Jacobson Barto .Qrifflss '•
Meredith Stomp Milton'CohenFenton Finn • Jean Roy
ALUMNI EDITORS Margaret Russell ' Herbert Groo
JUNIOR. ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin HelenJosephine Clark .Charles Hartong.Jobo Schneider 
REPORTERS .Stewart Ralston R. H. Snyder . .Fred.WoodsJoseph G. Ritter William McNeil Harry WIdom — * 'Cyril Letzeltei'Eugene Scanlon
BUSINESS. STAFF Business Manager........: . .Arnold PeristiCirculation Manager;iwitzAdvertising Manager.................. .Shelby'McMUllon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert. R. NobleT. R. Zook A. M. :Brow
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L, Sacks ' G. W. Bnihmst J. R.Brown H. Kandell ' A. Teplltz . ' H. L. MarshallB. WednerC- E. Blass M. Maltnlck
> further editorial
BUSHING EEGITLAT30NS
N MINE SAHS FOR THE QUEER —— ...................' • ' ‘ Richard N. Jones, president of the Univer-
Carnegie Day, the Occasion for celebrating sity of Illinois Interfratemity Council, who 
Andrew Carnegie 's birthday, haß teen saved has made an extensive survey of deferred rush; 
from ft .threatened postponement this year. As ing in a number of the larger universities of 
everyone knows, Her Majesty, .Queen Marie of the United States, visited the Carnegie Inter- Roamamu.hBs seen fit to eoneel'her P.ttsbnrgh frolcrnity Coimd, nt its t mcetin nnd prc. 
engagements, iet ns Ständen, our eo leetive /£ew ^ to the report he
thative^ t^inklessof theQi^en.butüfät^ve •«“ N““™1 Fraternity Confer-
think more of onr Carnegie Day, encein New lor*. . ..... ,
Our attitnde is, and W been, that it would 
be.a,most sities and having confidentially conferred with
^.the deans of thÄe respective schools, he states 
JS «¦<“ »"’y *•>"* of this number indicted that
&£ SÄo'Sdetached or ~tional interest at the most. proved. We may boost the scholastic rating of
;Bnt the interesting phase of the whole affair. fhe during the initial portion of the
¦will be to watch the manner in which the stu- Bemester but low scEolarship, retarded during 
dent body observes its resurrected Carnegie tiliB iod ¡„evitably appeared in coincidence 
Day. We never realized until this tradition with the rushing season, was 3eopardi&ed„how deeply we cherished it— 
that is a trick of human natnre. ButOne of his major‘issues adverse to deferred
InftooîAWMv • a« oTô*ftnt îw n+iwir t rushing :.was unfavorable financial conditions!
ways.. For instance, will 
fighting for Carnegie Day, cool to apathy, 
that the event is once more assured?
If we objeeted to the interference with Car­
negie Day, let ue^.now piovc Ythe sincerity of 
our resentment by observing our founder’s 
birthday wholeheartedly.
J. J. CAHB.
BEASS BANDS AND BUNTING
the rushing seasou, since a non-replenishment 
of fraternity timber -tended, to extend frater­
nity financial obligations. He later 
his arguments .by . stating that deferred rush; 
ing as awhole was unsuccessful.
. In spite of this arraignment .of the deferred 
rushing.plan, there still exists' suffic^ént proof 
of strength and soundness in .the system. One 
of :its most forcible objectives is in granting
'*'* * * between-.two rows of American the campus and an abundance of ti|ne for dc-
flags, six feet by iour feet, placed thirty feet liberation before liis final choicc. Fraternities,
apart ? • **' read the original proposal for -likewise, are recipien.ts,of an equal portion of
Pa-Ma day.,and much to our chagrin it iaa . benefits that were unobtainable under the .old
been .carried out. To find .that even-.our na- regulations. :This retardation enabie's fraterni-tional flag, the .emblem which symbolizes the : ties to judge, more extensively, the prospective 
very highest ideals of our country, which we material .on the ca,mpus and'it elimmates fre-
have «
’.country, which ______________________________________
^striven-to maintain sacred, has .been ¿juent .qnfayorable consequences to the-plebe
tne-fraternity, that are usually incurred 
the hurry scurry of rushing during the first 
few weeks of school.
The deferred rushing plan permits freshmen 
to acclimatize themselves to scholastic require­
ment at Carnegie. Once this is accomplished, 
he will have little difficulty in withstanding ed-. 
ucational pressure the remainder of the year'l
cheapened on the Carnegie campus to the 
tent of k..'being - used :as a mere decoration, is 
most humiliating.
The colors have always meant a great deal 
to; us. \ They typified the »unattainable goal, 
pure and virginal, which stood not only for the 
ideals' .of a mighty nation, but. were, also the 
inspiration of its greatness. To'seethem float- 
ing.from the SateiStiM wiU now ¿e“a“™ed £tlTi£and ;8ordidness of the .earth las .always.ereated mMtei ¿, indidators of;
a feeling of- rejer^nee within us. ¿nd^eB -fl,, scholastic ability of prospective pledgeswe.lower the flig:to..multiply it huudred-fpld ^ *conailjUeIItly through proper selection,
and thousand-fold. -so. that ever Caliban may SeHolarahip standai'ds will be advanced matefhaye.one to wave like.any .tawdry bit of tinsel s, .
This usage is hut ,one of the marks of an y • . , . .-, • • • v
.^balff?ed ,i»n Developed materiajly „“'that ^diSS'
a by-product of deferred rushing. This pre-far. beyond .to philesophioal capacity. Je 5»,^“
strive for a radio in every home and mention 
proudly the population of New- York, the num­
ber: of cars per capita ;in .California, and the
dieament may be true this semester, since fra­
ternities were caught unaware By the new 
Pl»j were-unableto rea^ust.themselves
BRITISH MINERS’ 
COAL STRIKE IS 
NEARING AN END
Coal Strike Which Lasted 
About 29 Weeks Ends in 
Defeat to Coal .Miners
BEST TALES
(By EDGAR ALLEN ?OE) More, perhaps, bos' been' wrUten 
ibeul Edgar Allen Foe from a prej­udiced point oi view than; about, any other.man of iettere'Jn the nlneteeDtb century. Intemperate as 
ie -was-himself 'iin like-inattere, he eceived more than' his share or iolent abuse , masquerading under he name ' of ^criticism—chiefly, of burse, In tho notorious ‘Memoir’ if the Reverend Rufus Wilmot Grle- wold, a vindictive hypocrite of 
tenlh-mte’xapdcities who wouldnow imbed In his own obscurity lrnd .be not crept into tho'light to his 'dead' friend. ..Intemper- 
i, in their praise, .have many of his critics been; -uitliough it may be said that cool, judgment le dif­ficult* intlie.case of this, of OU oi;r merlcan> writers thé. most loyed 
id the .most hated. ..ifet critics dot/ agree that there have been few: in oui* literature who aày. be considered Lis equnl, and inly one who may. In the judgment of posterity, be placed above him. That he is our greatest writer, of -hort stories no judicious critic will eny. And none' will deny either hat in his own realm he has never >cen surpassed—a realm, of fear ..nd horror, .inhabited by beings .ever, of this, earth, who. steal iur- Ively about their rotting ancestral 
•astlee; behind black velvet car- lalns which rustle in the curiously unqulot air; fearsome places where things uamontlonable, - and Death stalks tended by a nameless ;rew. Perrerslons strange .nnd rightful—Insane desires, end sights tn sear ono’s eyee—^things mon- 
trous and incredible happening un- tor moons which, never set but over l murder—all; the trappings of the Romance Macabre are In ¿Je Tales, la Shadow and SOunce; In Ush<OPERATORS MAKE 
ALL MINERS. AGREE '£S£-ÄT
Strike OanflOB . Huge Direct 
Losses Both To Goal and 
Other Industries.the hci
s recent reports h-om.Engleind 
Indicate that the qtrike .of. the 
British coal miners Is nearing an 
end. The striRo has lasted about 
aa weeks with huge direct losses 
to the coal industry and still 
greater lndlrectJoss.es .to other in-
iBlack Cat and In The TeU-Talt Heart, we are given the unique lvllego: of a . glimpse into the dreadful world wherein the author id and moved. He Is 
»very one of his stories: erly true 1t this,' thatlong tbe details of his fantastic creations have. faded from our mlnde, he remains, a haunting
to howgreat an influence Poe's miserable life had upon hiB work, but thevo |is little doubt .that few of hlB char- wretched .as he. or
There can be no doubt as to hich side won the strike, as the miners were defeated on the moat important points .-of contention ['hey were resisting' all attempts if tbe , mice owners to reduce 
wages and .to . lengthen the hours orkln thocoal mining Indus- 
tiy, and they were, furtheriiiiofe, dealing, as a unified group of Ia- jorers with all .mine operators, 'if hey had 'been successful the xe- lult of the strike would have'been some form of national agreement .between' the nnlon and .the ¿m- ployere. whlcti woiild 'havgrapplied uf all laborers and employers in' coal Industry. There would probably _ have been .concessions.i.ade by both sides, 'but even with' large concessions from the miners the defeat’ would not have beea as •mple.te as 19 the actual stale of affaire.
The result of the strike is that the mint
» dogged by. ad cruel compulsions. Thorough ive6tlgation shows that: he PLt nt, at least addicted to opJum;
but he was a helpless dlpsomaali was harried by extreme* emotional 
crises ell his life; was plagued by hallucinations and'delusions of per­secution; and died In fever and de-
1 do noftwlatt to'stress Foe"s ob- 
normalitles undply. Debplte his tre- idous handicap, he was .throogh t of lils life'- a hard/ falthfnl -and- offlcient worker—Iso efficient,. ir and eo -brilliant, that largely 
through his unaided efforts In' journalistic positions, American literary criticism raised nonentity to -a position of 
authority.Yet for most of us the fact of his abnormality, his "degeneree'cei 
old Nordau ‘called It, remains of the. greatest Importance when w< consider .the traits of. his genius. He was not quite.an^asylym Inmate and he barely missed, being, a phll 
lopher . '. . bat he had much, in common with . both. Tho-relatioi )en the deluded 'psychopath tinder medical supervision, who has onstructed.hls own ideal world ;of- 
fancy . .¦. and the philosopher who buUde a "system,’' or. the poet who eliigs of far-off fairy roalms, Is not 
ufficlently realized or understood. !t is a narrow bound indeed which separates -a certain type of unsta> ble, "temperamental artist from thi nervous" person,. or the. patient -her cannot seem to get along home, but dreams all'day. Given the piyeterious somethlog which nakos bis fulfillment-of bis panic tier seeds Into poetry, or "philos­ophy/’ the genius Is very lar from recognizing in his divine fire any- hing related to thot. torturing 
fame which seara thei spirit of the vretched patient, wrapped in his jioody meditations in.a comer of he hospital: It remains for. future hvostlgators to' discover' that rela­
tion—and in no case, perhaps, will hey find it more apparent, and, for hat very reason more baffling, than in the case of Poe.It. is obvious that % found ways 
f .satisfying his needs which re- erable in many respects the eolu- ions arrived at by the army of eurotlcs, psychopaths, and “degen­erates,’’ who bear their hereditary tamp without any mark of genius. Ie. paid the fearful price of his nherltance to the full, and paid it 11 his-life; because of It he led an i nhappy and blighted existence, the lctlm of powerful forces over .'hich he had no control; because f It, too. Ae was able.to “coin his. rain Into silver'’ and give a great rt and a splendid gift to the world t/hlch he found so hard and'tL un* Ind. ._ —A. E. Fisher.
ARTS PLAYS
A REVIEW
. ‘'SHE STOOP© TO CONQUER11
From 6Very polnt .of view, it wa a splendl^ production—this lu oiferlng of the Drama deparlmen and PLt worthy, of the .enthueieai shown by-the auclienco. Whatever. ".She S.toops, .To Conquer" may lack in the 'way ot modern techni­cal perfccti.
i stiu remains. ;i of 1most entertajnii fying plays In stage literatun these days when fdY much drai filth Is being dished up ovei___footlights, ‘JShe Stoopa” com«
finding themselves' a refreshfng breath .of cool aii 
district agrew ‘ J ‘ ‘ '
annually in Pittabuigh. And consequently, the
.the pre-rushing period,
- In. continuance of thi? i.oint of yiew5 it may 
be said that financial conditions -mil actually
_____ better themselves under the new-regulations.
sufficient culture “and conservative'taste that With the-selective process, highly developed,
towel-rra piece of cloth ijescryed for; special 
.caaions. ' .
The act is not unique m ;our. materialistic 
but hitherto .college authorities have possessed
they refrained from subjecting the flag to this fraternities .wiD.be able to,choose men of high- 
indignity on the. campus. But now Carnegie, ^ 1 ** 1 v “ ^ J il'Mater, must make the initial move tality of^any_partieular group and advancing 
in- advancing educational institutions another ~1
scholastic caliber, thus decreasing the 
group and advai 
at school the follow^number who 
a inescapably Babbitry. Already lngj-.ear.
-we have commercialized athletics, and salaried
press agents. More secretaries and fewer pro-......... e____________________________ ____
fes6ors is the cry of modem education. And- issues, pro and con, will be advanced, prcpara- 
in the meantime we are becoming a nation of i-Uve in determining which system, outranks the 
Philistines whose capacity for abstract thought other. Yet with its indefiniteness, it behooves 
> feeble from undernourishment that to everv fraternity on the campus to give the plan
prod it excites only the anathema.t 
highbrow !” 
i—-The above is reprinted from :
. a fair. trial and to plav it straight to the letter, 
and. law .of the new regulations..
M C
Belasco Presents Interesting View on Influence
That the Modern College Bears Upon the Theatre
t>avid Belasco. -who: mar. easily be compared, to..-the -controlling . Olympian deity of old. as>to»th<., coobpIcuoub place that ho .holds In the theater of today, has seated Borne -voiy Interesting views on the lnllaence .that' th^.^modern college heftTB. upon pie coptampor-
. and luter.vlewlng the gOda has al­ways 4jeen.one of my highest ambl- Upas;, and flnaaiy . .thlB:iambition - was realized- ikst week’ when- it ««ie about that: a portion of the • Olympian realm-VsB'transpl^ntad 
from.,the helghta-'to7 a'fashionable hostelry of thls.'clty^' ‘“ '-'.”i.
' -After, being-breezed” up to' the heights , by .T-a :-swift, bronze.‘'en- 
closed'Uft, I .stepped/out on /he : flfteentli.^ floor, -. beautiful In its' 
Louis XIV appointments, and walked over to the door that had oa^t the symbol chat «tablfstied tk* ua ot 4u OivmpU* liauitr
After announcing my mission ¿o 
T after:.crpj$ín:
vellous
tbo.. concierge, ing. certain f.foots tlnue which serve as
gaard.-rr-suddenly as .act of; legerdenaln;i fouud myself In: a yast. room. There I saw,-sit­
ting heh.lnd-.a-huge carved: table,' 
graced-by .a. big bouquet-of golden chrysftnthemums,.his /-Eminence,' David Belaico. Dean, of .American' play pcoducers <
¦ ^lth; the eKpr.eflBlon <of.i sweet-' ness on hie radiant face' he begged me to be seated, :Mr. Belasco hav­ing; adopted.-.the-'clerical garb be: .cause .of early ecclesiastical^ con- nec.tioM, i<s. i.;inost strlklpganj». viduol. jWjthsils long r-.WhHe'iwavy 
halr whlch fella. Jwith Insouciance' ibout bls?head.1 s v 
. The collego as being aa J^nport*.
'I At be arrested most «mphatical lr The one y—aminy hope, oiaee
the : road" loLH been practically ofcli4©i?t.edi.i;estfl;!Fithi,the^C9Bii9JW! ty Theaters -which from now oi must, serve-the ’ "hinterland*; th- -Communltv Theaters, • of course- being, the'direct outgrowth of th. : drajha-.ln the colleges. :- iiCollegea that take ' a- special tn terest if the field of Drama, wer. 
hlghlyrconmented by Mr. Belascc: In .that respect . Carnegie "is ex tremely honoured by the fact tha it was the first college In thé work to .offer a degree-, course It dromi and sUll” remains eminently pro : #clect .lo -Jta .compandlng.*osltio>.
,Che; saijxe success ïy copying- It. methods 
A short course In Drama Is e senUal tovall Individuals;/ It nc only gtves one poise, (stage-pre en.«), : and good > diction.-hut d: -
with the mine operators, which Ici- dioates that the union will suiter, decided loss of pre'stlge a wer. aa a national organi,2atl< irlng the last few weeks of the strike; many «of the mlneT ready' returned' to1 work under 
these dtetrict 'agreetnenie5 In eplte ‘ the fact that officially tho strike is still In progress. In- these die- ct .agreements they'have agreed' work longer hours and to ac­cept. less pay.
the. - most unfortunate things, about the results of .the strike Is that the fundamental problems, which the coal 'mining- 
industry ,has faced; in England
the summer of 1925 the Govern­ment.arranged a subsidy, .to he given to the coal industry for the purpose of continuing the existing wages and hours for miners. The apparent, purpose of this subsidy was to give the Government an op­portunity to make an extensive study ,of the coal industry so that tlioy .could arrive at some conclu­sions as justification of the claim!’ 
of .the miners.and operatora and so. that they would -hé'- .able ¦ tobring about 
whole industry if necessary.. report .of the commission *h<
Again the department play that was flawless in its pres­
entation. As Mr. Hardeaatle; Leon Ford portrayed tlie .eighteenth century, gentlemen -with - dlguity and reserve, retaining.'the lormal- ittni of the P.oHod, even under stress of great humiliation7 when -young.'. >HastIngs.' nUetook /htin for an' Inn-keeper. The Mia. Hardcas- tie of Clarita Stevens was a' treat Her rantings when the'jewelslost, 1Joy.iTony and Miss Neville, he: in the garden end her pom manner abou.t the house wer< doae -with a touch .of shrewish .de­
light. Irene Konslnskl and Katii- ne Mansfl^d. the Misses Hard- itle and Neville-of the evening, 1 little to do except to be sweet
barrassm«and the Inliibltlona that coi 
the reallzutlon of tho Inadequacy 
elf has caused the gods, many, times, to change lelr choice of an: indlvldUat- Davfd'.'Belaaco - pointed; rout the fact that experience playa an 1m.-
theao tools for. 
that..the ;pionacle of salisfnctlon pyrean of ended : struggle.
some of the poorer mines not able to! pay the existing >f wages, and there were sug-; gestions in the report concerning -ganlzation of tlie industry through governmental .action. • .s After tbe lapse of thé subsidy: ie 6trlke .took place^ with great >ss. to. both sides, and it is ¿Iffl-
tf. than Hhey would have: been Ithout -such -intervention-, as >the Oovernmont made.. The .dlssatis- faction of the .voters in regard to if there be any; policy^ o? the Conservative Party was reg­istered jn ths municipal .ele.cUonis__n .which .the. Labour Party made
msclousueca largo.gains.at the .expense of th<party In poi
. BARTON. GRIFFITH.
CHALIAPIN
Is attained.
The old sago of the theater now 
baying attained that ’ empyreal'-------orCHy.mp.ua ¡can look downlow others that the game is not altogether, futile.*- and ; what'Hid'
RoaSiui a conn? • masterpiece, • The Barber oi Seville:" will pre-' 
sent .Feodor .Chaliapin and-a spe­cially .organized grand opera com­pany in-a: gala performance'at Syria -Mo&que .on Friday^. Decem­ber a, under Ohe -pienagemcnt of Mav Beeg'e >
.Chaliapin will:be,supported bv a- cas.t In keeping Vith his own high standard. . --The role of; •‘Roslna” 'irtll- be sung hy BJyira De Hidalgo, a. part ia which she h^s. attnlned
and girlish; but ne u said to their credit, they did jU6t that-charm- ingly. DurbinHomer and Leo Mitchell, seemed a bit restrained as lovers—evon for tho eighteenth century, yet their -performances were marked with youthful gaf ontry that was appealing. The awkaTd and • impish Tony , Lump­kin, played . by Newton Cowan, scored throughout. Some ten or twelve other students gave ade­quate Bupport in minor’ports. . 
i it would he fair lo close without adding a' -frord 'of praise to Mrl 
Payne who Is responsible for the production and to the technical staff who assisted him. '
K. I. P.
Notes of MusicBy Allan V. JVem
MACMILLEN TONIGHT
Francis Macmlllen, the.noted vio­
linist, will' give the first violin re­cital of the seoson'.tonlght at.Car-, negle Music Hall,'the"occasion be­ing the 'second concert' .of^ the 
Edith Traylor Thompson eeries.' ..Macmillen will .ploy npdn^his Stradivorias', considered by r con-; coissenrs to bo one,«f the finest in existence. It Is of the grand model 
and bears the inner label “Anton. Stradlvariue, Cremona,172L'V
Macmlllen -. is .- one' of the few American vlollnlisLs to have ’.won great -success abroad afid he has appeared there with every Import- lyiaphony orchestra' and In -- rocjtala. . ®ince. his last 
Pittsburgh appearance'.- several' i ago, he has grevra invhie art and Stands, today .in ,tho very fore-.' front among musicians.'..His - pro­grams for Pltteburgfi next Tues­day is well-arraneed and .widely interesting. . " ; J . .
DÇ RESZKE.SINGERS
with Will Rogers at Carnegii uelc Hall on Thanksgiving,. No- imber 25, are four;American boys ho received their first. musical education. ' in . the United. States.
rent abroad and coached DeReszke, • the famous' Polish- tenor, who for many-,years reigned supreme' at the - Motro- polltsn opera. ’Will Rogers, a distinctive Amer-1 
an character, and one of tbe.greatest entertainers before thepublic today, and probably themost-popular because of his hu- nan qualities, has ,ch'o6en for his »ufcjecls “Europe—As You Do Not Find It in the Guide Books,” and “All. I Know Is. What I Read in
MR. CLAYTON HAMILTON
LECTURES ON IBSEN
¦ Cla'ytoiHamilton.- well-known 
writer and lecturer- brought out 
tie fact, .In à^ short- .talk to. atu- 
denta risi- ' .thé ' - Art’s Collège, last 
Tufsdayi ^that Ibsen Jias employed 
a “high-brow'.’ technique 1q ; 
plot development'.of his. plays. ' Mr. HamUton' has of late given 
up ÌiIb journalistic work; and has 
adopted- the peripatetic; method of going . about. from . place to/ place, entertnìtìlWg ladies antìliàry 'soci­
eties and' high school, assemblies in- "Dlsedlflcatlons ¦ot I.bsehlBin.’.’ .Being a ventricular figure among critics, wearing , thé formal swal­low. tailed-coat, - and carrying an éxprosslon of joviality on his rubi­
cund featores that are topped by a sheaf of grey: htilr; MrV Hamil­ton''might, easily, he taken for a niridecapal. personage Instead of ' Individual that he is— 
representing the true art of the theater. ¦ •¦¦ ¦
.Thè lecture that lie delivered to the students-was-one. of hie favor- orlte homilleB. chosen Jtrom hia ex­repertoire; ..: concerning Ghoçts and Ita Struc­tural Qualities." " •'Ghosts’’ having h«en built on I retrospective method, or the 
ans Ly. which the* main action ‘ of the drama. occUTB Deiore the 
opening : of the . play, Is «onslderod "hlgh-brow” technique- .by.'. Mr. 
Hamilton and, thus, not'sanctioned by him. . He brought out the fact that the plj)t structure of ^Ghosts1' was 'similar' to; that' of' the Greek 
tragedies which ^employed -thie ime retrospective method to un­fold plot • ¦ :Ibsen not . having been Informed 
by Mr. Hamilton of . Ihis outstand­ing fact, . remained until death unaware ' that "his ancient' prede* had "put one over on him.” 
So that, after-.all, both Sophocles md Eurlpldos mu6t receive the Tedlt for being the. first -writers >f '‘hlgh-brow”,'dramas; as , 'Sir. lamilton would .term It.
Ts8%ed®s
—rof correct style, reflecting the new 
broad shoulders, 
snug hips and wider'lapelg^
Stobe ’ot 
Men*36
Joseph Horne Jo
A Tbuly Metbopol,tan Stobe
o.nài ; aucce.ee, ' .Signorltà 
Is-pleaaanUy remeinijeredj r.*v.*'* ««.oui uievtin. t'utsburgh.-. having-' appeared •'TOr^..°ra .ÇÇHege Æd^çattob^;.le ;al.l:;--.hcTe>in:. Concert ^R-ithVDePàchman i he more striking becauea he has,. two seasons ago--.when-she'-came ¦ 
..Wt!,afying 8uç.T.to America to. join thé:'Jïe'tropoïi:‘ tte .theater tor:j tan Opejw . .company. .-'Hidalgo
.eupert-ap^çM, : |•
Inito praise believes In- and 
ere/y understands '{artistic
HAROLD H. JACOBSON 1 Chaliapin.
ichleyed. the ] es of any t
iay,-without the: eld of that fai
,or *hlch h0 l““d» Mtl ,uch ln | The orche.Lm I. under the dlreo 
Uop of Kugeae FloLnlkoff long an 
the.-gTei^t
The Sidewalks 
ofNetvYork
HAVE becoine for most of us 
thac very short space be-, 
tween going up and goirig down. 
We do not travel much, on the. 
surface these days. If our minds 
were a reflection of our trip 
.through a modern city, weshould 
. be at once the most profound and 
the most, ethereal, racc in the 
world, . . \
The escalator and elevator carry 
us from the subway to the' sur- • 
• face*- from the surface to the ele- 
vated subway. The baggage hoist 
lifts our trunks from level to level. 
We.enter a building and mount to 
the fiftieth story. Indeed^ we have 
almost abandoned the horizontal, 
and the force of- gravity seems 
just a bit old fashioned. The 
OcisEIevator.CompanyhaspIaced 
at our disposal an entirely new 
:.direction.
\ . The Otis Elbvatpr must acccpt a great deal of the responsibility for the crowd- 
. lng ofNcw Yprk s sidevaTks in the congested district.- This seems fancifiit't>uc 
neverchelcsa it ia true. Ncwapapcrs and maga2ines-continually deplore the in- 
. cr.easingly pVCT^ovvdcdiondition of these sidewalks, due to thebver-increa«ing ' 
. height ofbuildings. If ic w.cre not fpr. the developments in the elevator industry 
madc by thcpcis Elevatcv: Gopipany:as-a pioneer, it woiild noc have bcch poc- ; 
eiWe.tper^tbui.Idin^p/rhcstupendousheighK which arc now iflvbgue^Ic is'
; - - -the-highspeed^¿arless.jEleyato^pow culminating in;the 8oo;fc; speed auto­
matic signal control .dcvator. 'which has made the fiftieth flooralmost as avait 
abie'm point p£ time as thf ^vencicch fioor,.and t^a<hMV chcrcfotf,-ma(ie it -
feasible to p4e office on office high into the air.v ^ <• ^
ELEVATOR CO
0£es iq all Prwe^ptl Citu^ of the Vofil •- -
