ilias^
Tbe Tartan
Published Weekly by Students of the
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
----------------------------------------------------¦¦...r.r..-^--^r- .|r^|ri1.rr1rfftirr||rnt .) :ir|iT^m--------------------r-ni|||)|jii; -|,,|rrT- nj1|rT nr JirT—gn;u-.;-THTrii nr him. . l hi .
Ä? SEPTEMBER 29, 1909

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
0\O*O%0*O\0*OX0SO%0%0%0*0*OV0\0%0%0* 
* 0o *« r^. ___________________________________8o*THE RITTENHOUSE
Affords Superior Facilities for 
Serving Dinners, Balls 
and Banquets.
*
o * o K803 0 g 0 X g 0 g 0 *0 X 0
1 0 X
8 0 X 0 
§ 
g 
0 
8 
g 0%0X0K0*0*O*0%0*O*0X0*0KOX0.%0%0*0X0X0 
0*0%0*0%0*0%0*O*0%O%0%0X0*O%OXO*0*0X g s 
g 8
The Ball Room floor is cushioned 
making it perfect for dancing.
Special Inducements to Students 
of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
—IN THE RITTENHOUSE—
I
§
ggi?0gg
g
*
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 47 MILLIONS.
g1gg
g
gg0
%0*D*0%0*O*0VO*0%O*0%0S0*0S0*0X0%0%0
[sifgjgjgjgjg 3ilasal^alP^laubh ed^lhlalalalPWkWsaWPlkl^WhlPW^lPlaWay
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Florists and Decorators
Flowers for ail occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG­
EST ASSORTMENT
East End Store:Bell 5500 Highland 
P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:Bell 1101 Court P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
i >O0OOWOO0StnStofTHHTHTTTTTTTE
MR. ADVERTISER
Do you really know the advertising 
value of a school paper? Do you 
realize that Carnegie Tech is the larg­
est technical school in the United 
States—not going to be any more, but 
IS? Do you realize that 2500 students 
are enrolled here—enough to make a 
good sized town with no children or 
old people? Do you know that The 
Tartan is its only student paper and 
appears 36 times during the school 
year? Now, Mr. Advertiser, don’t you 
think it would pay to let these young 
money spenders (three-fourths are 
men) know what you have to sell? For 
rates address
NORMAN BENEDICT
-¦¦. r^|ri11f tn|))n 
):tn )Tfm j^nnt;,|Jm j:—
>00000000000000000000000000003000000
*gugHgH***gu***gugu**gu4*ghgug*gugugugu
Tech Boys' Attention !
You will want White Overalls and Jackets. 
They are 50 cents each.
Corduroy Pants, $1.50 and $2.00, for general 
wear.
ATHEIMER T 'S
Where all the Tech men go. 
3614 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block.
i
*tgugu
gjgI2J3J3J3J2ISMSJ3M3®SMSJSM3MSM3JïüM3JSJBJB I3J3ISJ3M3
SERVE
HÀLLER’S
ICECREAM
AT YOUR 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS
3618 Forbes SI.

---------------------------------------------------

THE SCRAP
The annual set-to between the Plebes and the 
Sophomores which took place on the athletic field 
Friday afternoon was a well managed affair. The 
day dawned bright and clear and by the time the 
events were schedule every bit of fog had been 
dissipated, leaving the weather conditions ideal.
In the morning, many attracted by the fight at Pitt, 
went over on the adjoining hill to see the Fresh­
men try to pluck the Soph flag from the top of a 30- 
foot greased gas pipe. By noon the faces at Tech- 
mont described elsewhere, was at its height am] 
served as a grand introductory overture to the 
events of the day.
Careful and elaborate preparations had been made 
bv both classes. A brass band dispensed lively airs 
and led the procession of battle arrayed Sophs and
VOL. IV, No. 2TEN CENTS
tartan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1909
THE FLAG RUSH
A Thrilling Moment in the Flag Rush. Note the Two at the Right of the Picture Getting in Fighting Trim

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
Plebes as they impressively entered the arena of con­
flict and marched by the grandstand and lined up 
on the opposite sides of the gridiron.
Spectators from near and afar filled the huge struc­
ture and many a mouth was agape as the tense sec­
onds preceding the calling of the first event slowly 
ticked off. The windows at the rear and side of the 
M. M. C. S. building were lined with the horror 
stricken faces of the inmates, who were not per­
mitted to enter the stand.
After exchanging several volleys of cheers the 
classes prepared for the tug-of-war. This year’s 
version was notable on account of the absence of 
any anchors or electric batteries. With 80 picked 
men on each side, the starting whistle rang out 
on the calm but slightly ruffled air. The spectators 
were able to watch the movement of the rope’s center
The Sophomores Caught by the Camera at Close 
Range During the Tug-o’-War.
in the intervals when Decker’s portly form did not 
block the view. The snapping and creaking of the 
cable made it evident that considerable force was 
being exerted. Just at this moment the smaller of 
the two pictures of the events was taken. The 
Sophs say they had the stretchy end of the rope 
and that was what moved its center over the mark 
and the Plebes say they pulled the hardest. The 
judges decided in favor of the latter.
The push ball was rolled to the center of the 
field and three terrific rounds of five minutes each 
were fought. In the middle of this event we began 
to notice a change in the costumes worn by the. par­
ticipants. Once more victory perched on the heads 
of the Plebes, who smollocked all over themselves 
when the decision was announced.
The flag rush was the most formidable affair. A 
piece of timber about two feet long having two small 
flags ’12 and ’13 cn it, was the bone of contention. 
The class having the most hands on it at the end of 
the time were to be declared the victors. When the 
signal for the start was given, two flying wedges of 
Plebes charged the main body of Sophs from op­
posite sides. Football tactics were employed by the 
defense and the opponents first onsalught was com­
pletely blocked. It then became a hand-to-hand af­
fair as the photo taken at the height of the scrim­
mage shows. Many interesting side shows such as 
the one at the right of this picture, were in opera­
tion and proved an interesting supplement to the 
big event. The ground soon looked like a rag picker’s 
back yard as the remains of shirts and other articles 
of wearing apparel were thought to be superfulous 
adornments and promptly removed. This event was 
the most difficult to follow for the spectators. Not 
until the whistle had blown several times and the 
judges, committees and bystanders had untangled 
some of the combatants and were sitting on the rest, 
cculd the referee get to the stick to count the hands. 
Score: 9 to 8 Plebes.
The eats chariot, with a cargo of sandwiches and 
lemonade, broke its back axle in the car tracks on 
Wcodlawn avenue and was lightened several pounds 
by members of Sigma Tau and Woodlawn who then 
appeared on the scene. The free feed was served on 
on the hill as soon as the refreshments were trans­
ferred to another wagon and hauled to the scene. No 
injuries resulted as the contests were cleanly athletic.
IRRIGATION PROGRESS IN AMERICA.
When the national reclamation act was passed in 
1902 there were in the government’s name, in the 16 
states affected, 600,000,000 acres of arid land, of 
which it was estimated possible to reclaim sufficient 
to support 50,000,000 people. By 1911 the reclamation 
service will have reclaimed nearly 2,000,000 acres, at 
an estimated cost of $70,000;000.
The construction cost of irrigation is returned to 
the government from the sale of land, the proceeds 
to be again used in furthering irrigation. The work 
of the irrigation congress is yet in its infancy, yet it 
is making a garden spot and an empire of the “Great 
American Desert.”
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.
THE SOPH END

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
FOOTBALL.
Our football team has been getting in some fine 
practice the past week and is fast rounding into form. 
In the practice games with the scrubs they have 
shown themselves very speedy, especially in the 
backfield.
Marshall is playing great ball in the line, being 
very fast and is always in the game. Kime, of last 
year’s squal, came out Monday and although he is 
not in condition yet, has shown up well. He and 
Marshall certainly bolster up the right side of the 
line. Dolin has been playing at end lately and has 
been doing good work. He is heavy and fast and 
follows the ball well. In the game Saturday, w'hich 
the varsity won 33 to 0, Flick and Capt. Hittner 
carried off the honors for long runs. Right at the 
start of the game “Billy” caught an onside kick and 
ran 50 yards for a touchdown.
Flick certainly shines at picking holes and going 
through them. In the second half he took the ball 
from the middle of the field and ran through the 
whole field for a touchdown. Robinson took it over 
three times on line plunges and was always good for 
8 or 9 yards when given the ball. McCorkle played 
well at right end, getting several pretty tackles. 
Coldren and Hatcher have been doing good work 
in the backfield. Coldren is fast and very clever at 
dodging in an open field. He features at running 
back punts. Coach Snitjer expects to put a fast 
team on against Westminster on Saturday and al­
though he has not made any direct statement about 
the outcome says that he will be ready for them 
and that the game will be worth watching. Every­
body should turn out to see this first game and 
help the fellows win. A good start means a whole 
lot, so all out for “Tech.”
BASEBALL.
Fall baseball practice was not held last week on 
account of the inclement weather. Capt. Coldren will 
have the new candidates out some time this week 
and get a line on promising material. This fall prac­
tice saves lots of time in the spring, because the 
coach and captain can start right in to work on
those who show up well in the fall. Captain Coldren 
and McKinley are about all last year's team back in 
school but there are reports of good material in 
the Plebe class.
TRACK.
Cross country running will commence the first of 
next week and all candidates for the track team 
chould hand their names to Captain Charles before 
Saturday, October 2. Tech is well supplied with 
high jumpers this year. Griffith, who won so many 
points in the high jump two years ago, is back in 
school. Flood and Crawford are also good in this 
event. Crawford, who is president of the Plebe 
class, is all good in the dashes, running the 100 yard, 
220 yard and 440 yard events' in fast time. He 
should make the relay team if he gets into form this 
year. Capt. Charles is in great condition and will 
no doubt break some collegiate quarter-mile records 
this year. Don’t forget to hand your names in be­
fore Saturday, October 2.
HOCKEY.
The members of last year’s hockey team met last 
Saturday afternoon and unanimously elected “Ray” 
Dornberger captain for the coming year. Last year’s 
team is practically all back in school with the ex­
ception of Close. Engstrom, who played goal the 
first year when “Buddy” Overend captained the 
team, is back in school. Those who were here then 
remember his great work in goal against Yale and 
Toronto University. He will be out for hockey and 
will make all candidates for goal hustle.
A state law has been passed in California making 
it an offense to use the American flag for advertising 
purposes. The penalty is a $200 fine or a year’s im­
prisonment.
The 4-light Gothic windows for the Liverpool 
cathedral will be 76 feet high and 38 feet wide, 
probably making them the largest windows in the 
world.

---------------------------------------------------

t>THE TARTAN
->¦ -t. -f- .t. J- J. .t. -t. .>¦ -t. -t. .t. t. .t- -t. -t. .t. .t. .t. .t. t. A .t. .t. .t. .t. -t.A
t*
I M. M. C. S.
School work has begun with a vengeance, so those 
of us who are inclined to look backward to the 
summer months, must forget the past and settle 
down to a winter of good hard study.
In a week or so we won't know these laughing, 
fun-loving girls of the M. M. C. S. In their places 
will be solemn young ladies strolling around at the 
noon hour merely for exercise. Already the girls 
have taken on something of that martyred expres­
sion typical of school life, but it is hoped, by those 
who are interested in our welfare, that this is only 
temporary.
As long as the school work is to be done, we might 
as well get to work at once and accomplish some-’ 
thing. We have had our vacation, and now it is 
time to forget about it; so let’s get down to busi­
ness.
One of the most pleasing features of our reassem­
blage was the return of Miss Harding to her classes.
Last year it was feared that she would be unable 
to continue her history classes on account of ill 
health, but now that she is back, we who know the 
charm of an hour spent with her, are simply de­
lighted.
Not many improvements in the school have been 
made, but we appreciate those that have been ac­
complished. It was rather difficult at first to become 
accustomed to the change in class-rooms on the main 
floor, but now that we are used to it, we see how 
much better is the new arrangement.
Dean West objects strongly to the girls carrying • 
their lunches from class to class during the morn­
ing. Consequently, a way of dispensing with them 
has been devised, which suits all parties. Mr. Mat: 
thews, in charge of the store-room, is overrun each 
morning by a crowd of girls waiting to deliver their 
lunch-boxes into his safekeeping. These lunches 
vanish from our hands at nine o’clock, in the base­
ment, and reappear at noon on the fourth floor, 
where they are given back to us at the door of the 
lunchroom.
When we first looked at Mr. Woods, this year, 
we did not know why it was he had changed so. 
After racking our memories and staring impolitely, 
it suddenly occurred to us that he had removed his 
mustache.
Miss Baldwin’s girls are very glad to have her » 
with them again after so long an absence. It seems 
like old times to have her back in the studio. "Al­
though she came back occasionally during the spring 
to see how we were progressing, she was unatile
to teach; so it is with pleasure that we see her in 
her old place.
None of the classes have done anything, so far, in 
the way of organizing for this year. The Plebes 
have been requested to await the supervision of the 
faculty.
Foutana McCullum and Mary Steel are the only 
girls who did not come back to join the Senior class. 
Foutana McCullum has gone to St. Louis with the 
rest of her family.
The class rush on Friday was enjoyed at a distance 
by every girl in the school. All the windows over­
looking the Tech field were filled with students and 
teachers. Of course, we would have liked a good 
seat on the grand stand, but that was impossible, 
owing to the rules of the board. However, we saw 
everything that happened from our vantage points 
and were as well pleased as though we had had our 
own way.
There were no classes after one-thirty, for no 
one could sit still in class, when a band was playing 
popular airs just outside our very windows, and 
hundreds of voices were being raised in school 
yells.
The department of Household Arts is doing credit­
able work in the lunch-room. They are proceeding 
very cautiously and gradually, but they will succeed 
in the end. In the meantime, it is wise to rein­
force ourselves with our own lunches.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS.
The Glee Club has secured the services of Mr. 
Ernest Lunt as musical director for the coming sea­
son. Although Mr. Dorington is responsible for. 
bringing the club to their present high standing, and 
we hate to see him go, Mr. Lunt has been well re­
ceived by the boys.
Mr. Lunt is also the director of the Mendelssohn 
Male Chorus. He has succeeded in making that or­
ganization one of the best in the country, and should 
work wonders with ours. Mr. Lunt has the reputa­
tion of being second to none. He is not only known 
fcr his work in Pittsburg, but enjoys a reputation 
throughout the country. He came here five years ago 
from England where he directed at different times 
three different male choruses, One of these choruses 
was considered the best in England. He has been won­
derfully successful with all of his previous under­
takings, and it is not unreasonable to believe that 
the glee club season will be a series of consecutive 
successes.
The need of a Banjo Club was keenly felt during 
the past season by the Glee and Mandolin Clubs. 
There surely must be enough banjo players in Car­
negie Tech to form such a club. It is hoped that 
we may secure enough players the coming year

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
to make a bang-up club. It is intended that this 
club travel with and take part in the concerts by 
Glee and Mandolin Club. All candidates are request­
ed to report in the general assembly room, A. and J. 
building at 3 o’clock next Sunday afternoon, October
3, and bring their instruments with them, if they 
have them.
In persuance of the wishes of the members of the 
Glee Club, Mr. Emil Paur, director of the Pittsburgh 
Orchestra, has written the music to a school song. 
This music is quick and snappy, and reminds one 
somewhat of the French Marsailles. It will make a 
rousing good school song.
The Glee Club feels quite honored by this favor of 
Mr. Paur, and shall exert itself to find words. It is 
the desire that the words which shall ultimately be 
used will be written by a student, or an alumnus. 
Shortly it will be arranged that all students, who 
so desire, may secure a copy of this music, and try 
his hand and head at words. In the meantime, any­
one who wishes to submit words may get information 
from any officer of the Glee and Mandolin Clubs.
TRAINING NEWS.
In connection with what has previously been said, 
in the last issue of the Tartan, regarding the relation 
nr responsibility of the football candidate to his fel- 
low-students, we consider it wise to outline a few 
of the things required of every candidate.
It is absolutely necessary for every man to be at 
every practice. No injury, lameness or disinclination 
can be offered as an excuse. Business or pleasure 
must take second place, unless the candidate makes 
soecial arrangements with his coach. Very often, if 
a man feels that his chances of making the Varsity 
are slim, he will remain away from practice. This 
he must not do, for as long as he is a member of 
the squad he must conform to its rules. We ask the 
co-operation of the student body in seeing that in­
fluence is brought to bear on every member of the 
squad regarding this matter.
Alcohol and tobacco in any form are strictly pro­
hibited.
Every man should be in bed at 10 p. m. unless 
he has studying to do. This does not mean for him 
to sit around or go out for an hour or so, and then 
begin studying, which will keep him up later than 
customary. Lack of sufficient sleep will get on a 
football man's nerves, and injure his game, quicker 
than anything else. However if it is a question be­
tween “study or sleep,” let it be “study” every time.
Right here it might as well be said that it is as 
much a breach of trust towards the student-body 
for a football candidate to be removed for lazy 
work in his studies, as it is for him to quit the team 
because of a disinclination to conform to its training 
rules. In both cases the man should be condemned 
severely by his fellow students in no uncertain terms. 
On the other hand, the classmates of a low-stand man 
can be of inestimable value to their football team
this fall by continually stimulating him to greater ef­
fort. Keep your eyes on the class room work of your 
candidates. Tech should rather have it said that she 
lost a man from the squad through muscular in­
ability, than through mental deficiency, or whatever 
you may call it.
This fall a football man may eat almost anything 
that appeals to his appetite. It is however wise to 
avoid soups or anything that wt!l wafh around in 
his stomach during the game or practice; anything 
especially greasy, or pastry stuffs. It is also unwise 
to eat more than one dish of ice cream. Many a 
football man has severely injured his system by 
eating too much cold stuff while still under the in­
fluence of the stress of a hard game or practice.
Tech has before her the prospect of a remarkable 
eleven, playing unusually fast football. Let’s all 
work hand in hand that the chances of this year’s 
team, of all teams, is not injured by our being 
dilatory, where we might have saved things had we 
used our influence wisely and in time.
Your coach,
E. N. SNITJER.
AT 323 CRAIG STREET.
The gallant Sophs were planning to give the Plebes 
a treat, when up came Schmucker running, and his 
face was flushed with heat; his shirt was torn and 
bloody, his trousers were awry, but his spirit was un­
daunted,—there was murder in his eye. His com­
rades gathered ’round him and he was heard to gasp, 
“The Plebes are led by Traver, and victory’s in their 
grasp; our boys are fighting nobly, but unless you 
lads are fleet, there’ll be a jail delivery at 323 Craig 
street.” Forth issued then the Sophomores in all their 
gallant clans; forth issued Stone and liittnar and 
Henderson and Sands; the distance soon was covered 
the “pink tea” was in blast; it wa? a small and 
early, and, oh, but it was fast. With the Sophs in 
decollete and the Plebes in “full undress”—are the 
Sophs good entertainers? Hear the Plebe class 
answer, “Yes.” The crowd to view the conflict drew 
the cop from off his beat, and the fun was fast and 
furious, at 32? Craig street. The Plebes were bold 
and husky, they came from front and back, and 
as they came, benoath their feet, we heard the plate 
glass crack. There were Freshmen in the bath­
tub, there were Freshmen on the floor, and eveiy- 
where there was a Soph, there were twenty Plebes, 
or more. They were breaking in the windows, they 
were smashing down the stairs, lets hope that next 
year, maybe, they’ll not fight us in our lair. But 
if there ever should be another such a treat, I hope 
to be invited to 323 Craig stree*.
RHYMING RUBE, ’12.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu­
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, ’11—Editor-in-Chief. 
Howard P. Mason, ’10—(Sporting Editor. 
Donald D. Mitchell, Associate Editor. 
Eugene B. Taggart, Associate Editor. 
Josephine Mandeville, ’10, M, M. C. S.—Associate 
Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, ’10, M. M. C. S.—Assistant.
H. J. McCorkle, ’11—Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ..................................................... $2.00
Single Copy ..........................................10 Cents
Kor Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
LEEDS FIELD
Following the announcement made last week that 
the “Tartan” would receive and publish all names 
suggested for our athletic field, comes a hearty re­
sponse. Like a great storm that has been gathering 
for some time and at last breaks forth with all its 
fury come the suggestions desired. Judging fr^m 
the trend of opinion as expressed by these, there 
will be little time lost quibbling over an appropriate 
title; no other name than that of Leeds Field has 
been suggested. We learn that the Alumni Associa­
tion as a whole and the classes of ’08 and ’09 were 
unanimous in their vote on the question.
Surely no more appropriate name could be found 
than that of the man who found the way to make 
the field possible. Since his first connection with 
Carnegie Tech, Mr. Leeds has done more for the 
cause of athletics than any other man here. Devot­
ing much of his time and all of his thought and 
energy during that time to the sensible, reasonable 
and practical solution of the problems oi vhe atLietic 
association he has won the everlasting grat'tude 
of every student familiar with his part in its. affairs, 
and it is to commemorate this gratitude that it is pro­
posed to give the field his name. He steered the doubt­
ful destiny of the association through the most tem­
pestuous times that we hope it will ever see, and did 
it only because he knew he was doing all in his power 
to make ends meet. It is only after a crisis is pass­
ed that the work of the level-headed is recognized 
and only after that that it is apt to be properly 
appreciated. It is up to the student body to see that 
Mr. Leeds receives this small honor for his invalu­
able services.
THE WESTMINSTER GAME.
The first game of the present football season, and 
for that matter, the first scheduled game of any kind 
to be played on the new field is the one with West­
minster scheduled for Saturday. The field will be 
dedicated with appropriate ceremonies and the only 
uncertain thing in the way of making it a success is 
the attendance. If every student who could attend 
that game came with a friend or two, the grand­
stand would be full. The student body owe it to 
themselves to see that the dedication of their field is 
properly attended. It is hoped that by thus calling 
attention to what a trivial matter the most uncertain 
factor of the season’s success will be, that the 
appeal will result in the transformation of an un­
dependable quantity into a dead sure thing.
Folansbee was removed from Sigma Tau on Wood- 
lawn avenue to the Mercy hospital late Monday night. 
The first serious symptoms of pneumonia had just 
developed.
The faculty have expressed their pleasure at the 
way the contests on Friday were conducted.
Borschneck was seen using a slide rule to figure 
out the probable outcome of the pushball contest. 
Bickley assisted.
Coach Snitjer says no more Neville street. Mc­
Corkle take notice.
SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS.
Those in charge of the athletic management de­
sire to make it clear to the student body that the 
season tickets issued by the Athletic Association are 
subjected to the following conditions as regards 
football:
There will be seven games played on the Tech 
Field and two played elsewhere. The ticket issued 
is good for any five of the home games, but for the 
Thanksgiving and Lehigh games it will be accepted 
as general admission only. This arrangement was 
adopted, since it places the night and day men on 
equal footing. A full understanding of this simple 
arrangement by everyone will save any misunder­
standing later.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
The work of the fall term in the Schooi of Applied 
Design began Tuesday, September 21, with very en­
couraging registration in all departments. The 
entering class in the Department of Architecture 
seems notably promising in the number and char­
acter of the students admitted. Both these and 
the students entering in the Departments of Decora­
tion and Illustration show a degree of maturity and 
preparation which promises well for their future 
work in the school.
The most of the students of last year have re­
entered the schccl or have signified their intention of 
doing so in the near future.
A large number of the architects were employed 
during the summer in offices in various parts of 
the country. Those who have returned are in good 
health and spirits and declare themselves ready to 
settle down to business.
Messrs. Rigaumont and Burkhart who spent the 
summer traveling in Europe, sailed from Holland 
September 6 and are expected to arrive at the schools 
very shortly.
Mr. Rigaumont suffered during his absence a 
terrible loss in the death of his father some weeks 
ago. In this loss he has the deepest sympathy of 
the faculty and his fellow students.
The faculty of the school have all returned and 
resumed their work with the exception of Mr. Fer- 
rand who has spent the vacation with Mrs. Ferrand 
in France. A cablegram was received from Mr. 
Ferrand stating that Mrs. Ferrand had just under­
gone a surgical operation in Paris and that his re­
turn would be delayed.
Mr. Sparks, who will take charge of the new course 
in Illustration, has returned from Algeria where he 
spent the vacation painting.
Mr. Campbell spent the vacation as designer in the 
office of the Supervising Architect in Washington.
Mr. J. Stanley Raush, formerly one of the most 
talented of the night students in Architecture and 
employed at present in the office of Messrs. Janssen 
& Abbott, architects, has accepted the position of 
night instructor in the Department of Decoration and 
will enter at once upon his duties.
THE HIGHEST FLIGHT OF A BALLOON.
The unprecedented elevation of 95,250 feet, or 18 
miles, was attained by an unmanned registering bal­
loon which was recently released at the Belgian 
meteorological institute at Uccle. At this elevation 
the barometric pressure is only 2-5 inch. The great­
est height ever attained by a manned balloon is about 
6.7 miles, or 35,400 feet. The Berlin aeronauts 
Berson and Suering, who established this record, 
were unconscious when they reached the highest 
point of their flight.
The Belgians adopted Hergesell’s plan of attach­
ing the instruments to a small and partially inflated 
balloon, suspended from a larger and fully Inflated 
one. The large balloon rises until it bursts, and the 
small balloon falls slowly, so that it can be easily 
observed and brings the instruments safely to earth. 
At the maximum elevation, 18 miles, the thermometer 
recorded a temperature of—82 deg. F., but a lower 
temperature,—88% deg. F., was registered at the 
comparatively small elevation of 8 miles. These ob­
servations appear to support the hypothesis that 
some of the ultra-red solar radiation is absorbed by 
the higher strata of the atmosphere, but additional 
observations will be required to solve the question. 
—Scientific American.
-------HIGH LOW--------
Jack and the Game
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENER’S
tSL Frankstown EAST END

---------------------------------------------------

10THET A R T A N
O*>\O\0\O\0\O\O\O\OVO\O\OV>\O\O>OSO\O\O\O\0\O\O\O\O\OVO\O*O\*&\a*OV0*O*O%O*2
GET STARTED
RIGHT FOR FUTURE COMFORT AND HAPPINESS—OPEN A BANK ACCOUNT
WITH THE
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
Capital, $200,000.00 Surplus, $126,000.00
*a*0X0\0*0*O*OVOOVOSO\ONOVO\<AOSOS<AO\O\O\O\ONO\O\O\O\O\O\O\O%O*d%O\0VONO\O\
BURNHAM’S DREAM FOR CHICAGO.
The Report for Chicago is issued under the title, 
“Plan for the City of Chicago.” It is the fruit of 
about three years’ work, the Merchants’ Club having 
appointed in 1906 a committee on City Plan. Through 
merger, the organization’s name has since been 
changed to Commercial Club; but the committee con­
tinued. Its members, all of them busy men, have 
been indefatigable, holding, it is said, more than 500 
meetings, besides devoting much time to investiga­
tion. This committee retained Mr. Burnham; spaci­
ous draughting and work rooms were arranged on 
the top of the Railway Exchange building, and there 
for many months a large force of men have been 
at work. It is common report that six figures are 
needed to express the cost of preparing the Report, 
the fact represents a degree of public spirit on the 
part of the subscribing business men of Chicago of 
which no other community can properly make light.
Many of the most striking features of the Chi­
cago plan—such as the proposed Plaza on Michigan 
avenue before the Field Museum, the boulevard to 
connect the North and South sides on the lake front, 
the yacht harbor, and the lagoons to the south— 
have been known for a long time. But these plans 
are now unfolded in their detail. With them are 
plans for a great Civic Center, at Congress and Hal- 
sted streets, for redeeming the river, for improved 
railway terminals, for a better system of highways 
inside and outside the city, and for outer parks and 
their connection. One chapter of the book is de­
voted to an account of the vast improvement schemes
that have been undertaken in other cities, notably in 
Paris and London; and Paris is repeatedly cited in 
the report as an example of the financial reward that 
awaits courage and lavishness in municipal improve­
ment expenditure. Describing the plan as “an ideal 
project for the physical development of the city,” 
the text says: “It is fully realized that a plan call­
ing for improvements on a scale larger and more 
inclusive than any heretofore proposed seems, on 
first consideration, beyond the financial ability of 
the community. If, however, the plan meets public 
a,DDroval it can be executed without seriously in^ 
creasing present burdens. The growth of the city, 
creating, as it does, wealth greater than mines can 
produce, gives a basis for bond issues in excess of 
the utmost cost involved in carrying out this plan. 
It is quite possible that some revision of existing laws 
may be necessary in order to enable the people to 
?arry cut this project, but this is clearly within the 
power of the people themselves.” Probably the 
feature of the plan most likely to be executed—and 
a very great feature it is—-is the construction of the 
lagoons along the lake front. Grant Park has al­
ready given proof of the practicability and economy 
of this. This has been created, as most everybody 
knows, by constructing a breakwater far beyond the 
Illinois Central right of way, and filling in with city 
dumpings the section inside the breakwater. This 
was the cheapest disposal of the dumpings, and it has 
been reclaiming, on an average, twenty-seven acres 
of land a year, raising it seven feet above the waters 
of the lake. As it is assumed that in the coming 
years the waste material of the city will be no less
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
TECH-N EGI E
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.Otto Getting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANli
in quantity, and it is known that north and south 
along the lake front of the city the like general depth 
of water obtains, it appears that the dreamed park- 
bordered lagoon, can be readily constructed. The 
proposed street changes, civic center and redeeming 
of the river would involve enormous outlay and are 
likely to make less appeal to the popular imagina­
tion. But they were inevitable parts of the plan, 
and it is good for a community even to think about 
such things.—The Architectural Record.
NEW ELECTRICAL THEORY.
Prof. Wurts received the following letter during 
the summer and it is through his courtesy we are 
able to print it. The envelope bore the address, Pro­
fessor for Electrical Research, Carnegie Institute of 
America. It was mailed in Russia.
“Electricity and Its Conditions.
Magnetism is of many kinds. Electricity can be 
considered as its outflow. It has succeeded to con­
vince the public that vegetation prospers in Elec­
tricity, but the contrary remains that the diminu­
tion of Magnetism in the air lessens growth. Elec­
tricity cannot be produced in quantity in a closed 
chamber, it must collect and it does it from all 
directions. It collects what is a dire necessity for 
humanity and vegetation. It collects nature’s store 
of magnetism and mixes it until it come forward 
as a poisonous stream. It can be said the yearly 
growth will be diminished by 14=100+ of 300. Elec­
tricity is dear, too dear. The magnetism atmosphere 
is coarser downwards. The movement of the earth 
collects certain qualities magnetism on the west­
ern coasts, enormously strengthened with above nam­
ed poisonous stream, where it like lightning causes 
earthquakes. The many recent earthquakes are 
caused by the many electric generators. Continued 
use of electricity produces the catastrophe mentioned 
in the Christian Bible 2 Petri 3 Kap. 10, and other 
places.
Can an all world society be founded to prevent 
the use of electricity, and its consequences—the 
suicide of the world.
All metal masses in motion produce magnetism.
An ideal state' is country life (here follows a word 
we cannot make out) and organic matters chiefly 
in use.
Let us by all means strive to maintain the equilib­
rium of the magnetism atmosphere.
Magnetism ought to be a prohibited subject.
Be good enough publish for discussion.
Karlskrona 30, 6, ’09.
(He signs his name followed by ’57)
The writing is fairly good, and his spelling has 
been duplicated.
The Bible verse mentioned is “But the day of 
the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the 
which the heavens shall pass away with a grpat 
noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, 
the earth also and the works that are therein shall 
be burned up.”
Before going out get a shave 
and massage at the TECH 
BARBERS. Two chairs all 
the time.
*
The Standard of Excellence
MacDonald’s
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice Cream—Fancy Boxes—Baskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
Manheim Slide Rules—5, 8, 10, 16 and 20- 
inch Duplex Polyhase, Log, Log-slide Rules, 
Circular Calculators, Halden Calculex.
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz ,
606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279. ^
1 Well Pressed is Well Dressed I
LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO. * 
301 South Craig Street ^
OXOX^XOXQXQXOXOXOXOSOXQXOXOXOXOXOXOX
1 R. W. MEDICK 1
£ CHOICE HOME DRESSED MEATS AND & 
g POULTRY
# Both Phones 3804 Forbes Street && $xoxoxoxoxaxrjxoxaxoxoxoxoxoxo’xoxox^xo
o GOOD THINGS TO EAT
* at the Pure Food Stores of
GEO, K, STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Higland and Center 
East End
AUDITORIUM bating
n?) ;)tn 5411|m tr:n)t :Tf 
S,t^M ^T n?) tn:n)—
2.000 Pair Skates. 25,000 Sq. Ft. Surfact
MIF— ;FIEL EDL 4EFR09F :A9—
-¦. r^¦.|i.1 ftn):
THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and 
profit.

---------------------------------------------------

12THETARTAN
*O%O*ÖX0*ONO%O\DOX0XO*«*OS0\O*OVO*OVO\O\O\O%O%O\O*O\O*OVO\O\O\O\0\OVOVOXD\OX
I :f>. ludebuehl ¿3 so MR. I
g PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. g
$ The New Creation for Men $
$ “TAN VIKING CALF” Button and Blücher §
| $4.00 and $5.00 the pair |
O\O*O\O\O\O*O\OVO*O\O\0\O\O\O\O\O\O\O*OXO%O\O\O\O\O\O%O\O\O**a\OX0V>\O\0\O\O
WHAT IS DECORATION?
That the objective in decorative art is the achieve­
ment of effect seems to be one of the most difficult 
facts to impress upon the popular mind. If the sub­
ject be architectural decoration there is an addi­
tional consideration, utility, which is perfectly well 
understood by all, but there the comprehension 
ceases. Show a person a piece of decoration which 
bears the stamp of antiquity and he is at once ap­
preciative—of the antiquity—not of the decorative 
value of the piece. It is pointed out to him that the 
object is entirely hand-made; he examines it more 
closely and discovers for the first time that its execu­
tion is not, as he took for granted, absolutely without 
variation or blemish. The defects are attributed to 
age. It is an antique and that is sufficient for him. His 
minuter examination has not aroused his imagination. 
He has none to arouse. Again, show him another 
decorative piece, a mosiac panel which is avowedly 
new w'ork. His standard of judgment immediately 
changes. He becomes critical, perceives that the in­
dividual pieces of mosiac are very irregular in shape, 
the cement jointing is uneven and the lines wiiich 
are supposed to be straight do anything but main­
tain the same direction. The colors which form the 
patterns are spotted where they were supposedly 
intended to be all of one color. He can see no art 
in that sort of work—because he has utterly missed 
its purpose, decorative effect. The subject is men­
tally reconstructed with the blemishes corrected and 
the decorative effect is condemned because unappre­
ciated.
This lack of appreciation of effect is especially 
notable in the realm of the tile worker whose beauti­
ful product goes to often unappreciated and con­
demned for the very qualities which are its chief as­
sets for decorative art—accidental variations in the 
texture, color and shape of the individual pieces, 
produced by the process of manufacture—variations 
which never occur identically during any two burn­
ings of the kiln and which cannot therefore be dupli­
cated.
In a recent pamphlet on the qualities of tile, Mr. 
Binns, director of the State School of Clayworking 
and Ceramics at Alfred University, Alfred, N. Y., 
treats of this matter of decorative effect in an inter­
esting manner. In our opinion he touches effectively 
upon a phase of artistic appreciation to which we 
Americans are, as a race, remarkably unresponsive. 
—The Architectural Review.
SCENIC PICTURES OF POSTAGE STAMPS.
The walls of the Saint Jean de Dieu hospital at 
Ghent, Belgium, are decorated with gorgeous land­
scapes, glowing wTith color, formed entirely of can­
celed postage stamps of all nations. Palaces, forests, 
streams, and mountains are represented in this 
unique scheme of scenic reproduction, while flitting 
butterflies, birds, snakes and other animals are in­
dicated here and there with consummate skill. The 
pictures are in the Chinese style, and it is estimated 
that the monks have used nearly 12,000,000 stamps 
in the scheme.
John J. Flanagan, one of the stars of the American 
Olympic team, threw a 16-lb. hammer 180 feet in a 
New York contest, breaking his own world’s record 
by more than 5 feet.
CAMPUS NOTES &
Records of College Expense can 
be kept with ease in a
McCLOY’S
tM?114 t|T M144)J) 
)Vj)Tt) ;11r
ENOUGH PAGES TO LAST
THROUGHOUT A FOUR
YEARS’ COLLEGE COURSE
Green Velum de Luxe Binding
leaf 8y2 X II
$1.25 post-paid everywhere.
McCLOY’S Headquarters for school supplies 
642-4-6 LIBERTY AVE.
AD VET ISVy.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
WIDTHS OF COUNTRY ROADS IN AMERICA AND 
GERMANY.
According to Robert J. Thompson, U. S. Consul 
at Hanover, German country roads are perhaps sub­
ject to a hundred times more traffic than are Ameri­
can country roads, yet the former range only from 
20 to 30 feet, in width, while in the American western 
states especially, where the traffic is comparatively 
light, land of an average value of $100 an acre, is 
cut up with roadways 66 feet wide. Practically two- 
thirds cf this is given over to weeds, which furnish 
an inexhaustible supply of seeds for the adjoining 
farm lands.
The farmer in Germany who has conquered the 
weeds on his ground need have no fear of their being 
started again from uncultivated or uncared for land 
along the roadways. There are no weeds, no mud 
or chuck holes, no sand stretches in the roads. 200\O 
ing into the valleys from one of the thousands of 
lookout towers, which have teen placed on the sum­
mit of nearly every high elevation of land or moun­
tain in Germany, the reads lie before one’s view like 
bright white ribbons, running past squares of greon 
or brown fields, along the verges of cultivated woods, 
binding village to village—a solution of the first 
and most important problem of human economy and 
evolution, that of transportation.
Mr. Thompson estimates that in 13 of the great 
agricultural states of the Middle West there is a total 
of 700,000 miles of country roads. By reducing the 
width of these highways from 66 to 36 feet, there 
would be given back to the farmers for cultivation
2,500,000 acres of generally tillable land, which, at an 
average valuation of $100 an acre would mean the 
restoration to the producing values of the states men 
tioned of $250,000,000. This sum has an annual in­
terest value of $12,500,000, an amount which might 
be recovered, and, if applied to the proper scientific 
construction of roads, would in a few years give the 
United States the most extensive and finest country 
road system in the world.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you can’t 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.
I B. & B.
; men’s clothing
I This store confines itself to no one or few
i tailoring houses because each has its own
S particular ideas which in their own peculiar
’ way are more perfectly adapted to certain
! builds than others—so we choose the best of
f many—thus the ease and perfection with
I which we are able to fit men of all propor-
. tions.
I BOGGS & BUHL
For
MEN
For
WOMEN
SHOES THAT ARE 
BETTER AND LOOK IT
HANAN & BAKER SHOE COMPANY
435-437 Wood Street
< v w v v.vv Cm^vvOC^OC^OOOOO.OOOOOOC 0O0OOO 8
LEARN ESPERANTO
the world language, and make friends all 
over the world. It is making wonderful 
progress. The official headquarters in Pitts­
burg for Esperanto textbooks and literature 
(Esperanta Oficino), where information 
will fcp cheerfully given, is
Henrici’s Book Store
NEAR EAST END POSTOFFICE
4* O
A. W. SMITH CO.,
FTorfsts
$ Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es- 
^ tablishment in America.
* Represented in all large cities
£ KEENAN BUILDING
*Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
O

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
COME OUT NEXT SUNDAY.
Everybody capable of showing the least musical 
ability whatever should turn out next Sunday, Oc­
tober 3, at 3 p. m. for the try-out of the Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs. As told in last week’s Tartan the 
boys will have an excellent opportunity of participat­
ing in a number of pleasant trips.
If your musical ability is singing or instrumental 
you cannot help but be benefited by belonging to 
either or both of these clubs. The training one re­
ceives in our clubs is of the very best and is equal 
to that acquired by paying money to an individual 
music teacher. You will learn also many c »liege 
and comical numbers that you perhaps havre never 
heard before. You will catch the true college spirit 
which makes one loyal to their Alma Mater and will 
no doubt help you to fully enjoy every moment of 
the few short years of your college life. In short be 
a good fellow and come out next Sunday.
Remarkable results have been obtained by an elec­
trical ozone-generating apparatus recently installed 
at the public library on Michigan avenue and Wash­
ington street, Chicago. It appears that complaints 
had constantly been made of the unpleasant odor 
from accumulated human emanations, aud this in 
spite of an excellent purified-air •'entilatioa system, 
the nuisance becoming such that an attempt had 
to be made to counteract it. Direct current at 110 
volts is converted to alternating at 120 by a rotary 
converter, and the latter stepped up to 8,000 volts 
by a transformer. This high-tension secondary cur­
rent discharges betw'een the plates of the ozonizer, 
through which is drawn the air led to the ventilat­
ing apparatus above. Enough oxygen is converted to 
free ozone to kill any living organisms in the air 
and neutralize any kind of odor. The most remark­
able result of the installation appears to be the 
substitution for unpleasant if not actively unwhole­
some air of an atmosphere actively healthful.
mt -»-A Art Art Art Art Art Art Art
^ne'Best' Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST.
OAKLAND
WHITE OVERALLS 
for the Tech Students—all sizes. ,{,
$1.00 A SUIT %
^ Best Garments Made. *
The Electrical Review suggests that “trackless 
trolleys,” such as are successfully used in Austria and 
elsewhere in Europe, that is to say, electric vehicles 
running on ordinary roads, but taking power from 
overhead wires, might be advantageously used to 
take the place of horse-drawn stage coaches, which 
still connect with the railroads numerous villages 
having no other means of transportation, even in 
the most populous parts of the country. It is pointed 
out that such stage lines rarely have a traffic which 
would encourage the projection of electric railroads 
to take their place as a profitable venture; but 
figures are quoted to show that of the cost of road­
bed, track, and electric-line construction in electric 
railroads, only 15 per cent, or less is for overhead 
conductors and poles; considering therefore that 
electric road vehicles are obtainable for a much 
lower cost than railway cars, and that the power- 
generating plant would be so much less for a little 
line operating only three or four stages back and 
forth per day, it is obvious that such a trackless 
trolley system could be undertaken for a tenth of 
the cost of an electric railway, and with a much 
better chance of profitable operation.—Scientific 
American.
*
*?Football practice every afternoon 3.30==
6.00. All candidates report immediately as 
the first game is only three days off.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
WORK OF THE WIRES AND WIRELESS.
In communicating with each other by telephone and 
telegraph, the people of the United States used, in 
1907, more than 15,000,000 miles of single wire, of 
which 12,999,369 miles were telephone wires, and 
2,072,851 were telegraph wires. Over the telegraph 
wires there were flashed 368,470,509 messages, of 
which 5,869,317 were cablegrams.
The telegraph was established in 1844, while the 
telephone did not come until 32 years later, yet, in 
1907, the telephone wire mileage was eight times as 
great as that for telegraph service. All this in­
formation is contained in the report of the Depart­
ment of Commerce and Labor, which is the third of 
its kind ever issued. According to the bulletin, the 
wireless telegraph was operated at a loss of $47,628 
in this country in 1907.
The tug “Grayling,” which started out from Seattle 
on May 27, in an attempt to reach Panama, has not 
been heard of 61 days after leaving port. She had 
provisions for only 45 days.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during 
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for 
the year. See the business manager.
Charles S. Philipp has produced a variety of glass 
which is a good conductor of electricity by fusing 
together 32 parts of sodium silicate, 5 parts of borax, 
0.8 part of lead oxide, and 0.2 part of sodium anti- 
moniàte. The glass is not attacked by acids. Its 
electrical resistance is about 1,000 times smaller than 
that of ordinary glass. It is used chiefly for the 
disks of electrometers and electroscopes. Filaments 
of the new glass may even be substituted for the gold 
leaves of an electroscope.
GET THE SOUVENIR.
Special program issued for the inaugural game 
on our new Athletic Field next Saturday. New rules, 
new photos of team and coach, and score card. At 
the game, 5c.
sswwsswwwwwsswwwws^ssssss* %I KAERCHER S DRUG STORE ?> *£ H. R. Scott, Manager
$ Drugs, Cigars, Soda Water, Stationery, Poet 
g Cards, Etc., Etc.
SS PRESCRIPTIONS
£ Full Line of Fancy Smokings
£ Cor. Craig and Forbes St. - Pittsburg, Pa.
** Phones: Bell 1456 Schenley
£ P. & A. 303 Park.
*^\S\NN\\\\\VNNVWV^N^V%V^ XSSXX» 
* »« %£Do You Knowthat we print more books than any firm in 
the East End ?.............................................
Do You Knowthat our Programs, Topic Cards and leaflets elicit the admiration of lovers ol Fine Print­
ing? ............................................
Do You Knowthat we are prompt, and that an order for a 
dollar receives as much care and attention
as one for a hundred dollars?....................
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt 
and efficient service, come to.....................
SPAHR & RITSCHER,
6117 Kirkwood St., East End.
'Ê
I?o
v:>v:>sov:>v:>v:>v:>\ov:»v:>\c>\ov:>\<.AO\o\oxo 
Ö *
§ BRACE BROS.**Ï Launderers, Cleaners and 
Dyers
ft 608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg. 
*«6102 Penn Avenue, East Liberty
Both Phenes.**+i*£
v.Ta rt A AAA ¦% (Art A rt Art A rt i,T> rt Art A A Art Art Art A rt Art ^
I ¦**' I? (ft I ti ©V T
2 JACQUES
ri DANCING ACADEMY
* COR CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS
J; PITTSBURG, PA.
£ Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley.
» CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND 
*.¦ SATURDAY
i* Private Lessons Daily
* „WTWTWvMTMTyTwTvTyvyTyvyTMVyTwvwTyTyT

---------------------------------------------------

WHAT DO YOU WANT?
QUALITY OR QUANTITY!
Advertising is just like eating: it is 
not the quantity you eat; it’s the qual­
ity that gives the nourishment to our 
body.
“THE TARTAN”
is a paper of quality, and, therefore, is 
the best place to advertise. With
2,500 readers, among a class of men 
and women who know, and that have 
the money to spend,
ADVERTISE
in the “TARTAN,” and you will read­
ily see the real value of a school paper. 
For rates, address
NORMAN BENEDICT, Adv. Mgr., 
6117 Kirkwood St., E. E.
