LAST CHANCE 
TO
BUY THISTLE(lilt (Jarían
GET PRELIM.
TICKET 
FOR PROM. NOW
VOL. XVI. NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1922
A. E. F. SPORT 
DIRECTOR AT 
LAST CHAPEL
Mr. Elwood Brown Who 
Had Charge of Inter-Allied 
Games at Paris Talks on 
Athletics
GOLD MEDAL 
AWARDED THE 
ARCH. DEPT.
DISCUSSES ORIENT
An. exceptionally interesting chapel 
service was lield Monday at 12:45 a. 
m.f with a large attendance. The 
speaker was Mr* Elwood Brown, 
World Secretary for the Y. M. C. A., 
in physical education and athletic 
sports. Mr. Brown was in charge of 
athletics and recreation for the A. 
E. F. in France, and was the direc­
tor of the great Inter-Allied Games 
in Paris in the Pershing Stadium, 
which he built He is at present di­
recting the introduction of American 
sports in the various, foreign coun­
tries.
Mr., Brown’s subject was "The 
World at Play,” which he was very 
capable to discuss, since he has lit' 
«rally taught the-Eastern people our 
American games. During his visits 
abroad, he noticed that in all the 
Far East, there was the very greatest 
need for athletic games. The Chi­
nese are physically very undeveloped, 
due to the traditional habits of their 
forefathers1. The reason that the 
Chinese did not iplay games, was 
that there was no underlying basis 
to induce them to play games. The 
slogan now is “Everyman in the 
Games.”
Beginning with this idea, Mr. 
Brown Introduced the first volley ball 
and the first indoor baseball- to the 
Philippines. At the present time, 
more volley vails „are sold in the 
Philippines than in the United 
States. The underlying basis for all 
these games is the spirit of competi- 
(Continued On Page Two.)
Good Stunts Planned 
For Science Smoker
Committee Promises Some 
Novel Prizes
The Science stag smolcer commit­
tee this year promises to have some 
good stunts, and some good prizes for 
the best stunts are to be awarded.
There were some errors in the per­
sonnel of the committee as announced 
last week and the following is the 
•corrected list: T. W. Plante, clialr-
man; P. C. Gannon from the Junior 
class, K. Landis, Sophomore; Harry 
Smith, Plebe, and A. E. Sedlachek, Se­
nior.
Committees from each class are to 
“be appointed immediately, if they have 
not already been appointed, and these 
men will have charge of their class 
stunt. As far as is known, the Seniors 
and Juniors have their stunt well un­
der way and the lower classmen are 
urged to do the same if they have not 
already done so. The Sophs have car­
ried away the honors for the last few 
years, but it is hoped that the Plebes 
will show the Sophs that they have 
the “Up and at ’em spirit,” and will 
give‘the otlier classes a close race for 
first prize. • The prizes are unusual 
iind unique and will not be known to 
any one, except the committee, until 
the night of the smoker, when they 
will be awarded.
The Plebe orchestra will furnish 
the music and will have something 
new to offer. There will be a few 
.good speakers with the emphasis on 
the few, as some new special stunts 
.have been, arranged for. The Varsity 
Clan Cafeteria will furnish the eats. 
The date is February 18, in the Union. 
The date is announced far enough in 
advance so that every Science man 
•can mark that date down in his book 
as being an important one for next 
month.
Musical Club Season Opens
PSYCHOLOGY DEPART­
MENT TO CONDUCT
SCHOOL FOR SALESMEN
Dr. Benjamin W. Robinson of the 
Bureau of Personal Research, and 
Mr. Paul M. Stinchfield, a former 
student at Carnegie Tech, will spend 
the next three or four months con- 
ducting school for salesmen througii-j Led A1, Architectural Schools 
out the country. Their work will be 
under the direction of Mr. William 
Maxwell, vice president of Thomas 
A. Edison, Inc. Dr. Robinson will 
return to the Personal Bureau at 
the end of this time.
“THE CORTOLA OF 
GRANADA” AT ARTS
Date Fixed, Feb. 17—Work 
Started on Decorations
The date of the Arts Ball, has been 
definitely set for Friday evening, 
February 17th, and will last at least 
until four a. m.
The type of ball has been the cause 
of considerable discussion as it al­
ways is and the type chosen is one 
that "will be of more or less educa­
tional value in addition to the great 
pleasure and exliiliration for it is 
such that much thought must be 
given to the costumes and their cor­
rectness. Being stricUly a period, ball 
will necessitate care in the selection 
of costumes, but nevertheless there 
will be considerable scope for choice 
so that there will no doubt be al­
most as great a variety as last year.
The “Cortola of Granada” as the 
ball is officially stamped, dates back 
to medieval times when from 750 to 
1,492 the Moors of Africa inhabited 
Spain and in particular the city of 
Granada. During the latter part of 
this rule it was a custom to hold big 
gatherings called portolas and out of 
these grew the “Cortola of Granada,” 
the largest and best being held in 
.the city of Granada about 1487, just 
before its fall—when the city was at 
the height of its glory, having vic­
torious armies and navies. It was the 
largest seaport In that section of the 
world and people from all parts of 
the world were In the city at all 
times, but especially so at the time 
of the big “Fete.” There were the 
'Spanish, Moorish, Saracens, Engilish 
and French crusaders, slaves, sailors 
and so on, all of which provides a 
wealth of material for costume selec­
tion—for there were tihe fifteenth 
century costumes from aJll over the 
world.
The modern Spanish costumes— 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Y. W. C. A. HAS BUSY WEEK
“Candy Week” in all four schools 
will be conducted beginning Monday, 
January 16 and last until after Friday, 
the 20th. Y. W. C. A. girls will be 
stationed in each school. The money 
is being raised to help the association 
to reach their goal—their amount 
pledged to the Student Friendship 
Fund. Watch for these girls and get 
your candy from them. You will be 
helping some fellow over there to live 
for another day or week. Isn’t that 
worth while?
The meeting this afternoon will be 
a part discussion meeting on “What 
Makes a Real Girl?” and will be led 
by Eleanor Wilt. This meeting is to 
be followed by several meetings of a 
missionary nature—but of a different 
kind than usual. They will be of 
countries we know and countries we 
don’t know. They will deal with the 
girls and women of these countries— 
with their thoughts, their play, their 
social conditions—to see how closely 
these girls come to what makes a real 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Tech Men Employed As
Salesmen Instructors
The first concert o£ the Musical I 
Clubs will be held in Tarentum to-1 
morrow night. Having recovered' 
from the trip tq Mayview the clubs 
have been working hard and are 
leady to present the following pro-, 
.gram:
1. a—Land-Sighting. .Edward Greig 
b—Plantation Lullaby... .Stevens
Glee Club
2.—March—Our Director..................
.................................F. E. Biglow
Mandolin Club
3.—When Our Dreams Come True
, ....................................W. Bishop
. Glee Club
4.—Selected
5.—Song of India, Jlimisky-Korsakow
Mandolin Club 
INTERMISSION
6.—Novelty Orchestra
7.—Legend of the Chimes..............
..................................R. DeKoven
(from “Robin Hood")
Glee Club
8.—Selected -
9.—Excelsio r.................M. W. Balfe
\Glee Club
10.—Serenade'.....................F. Schubert
Mandolin Club
11—Dear Old Tech..................C. I. T.
i^nsemble
' Beside this 'propram a bunch of 
(Continued- On Page Two.) |
Mr. William Maxwell, first vice pres­
ident and ,general manager of the 
Thomas A. Edison, Inc., visited Car­
negie Tech on January 14 and inter­
viewed a number of faculty members 
and advanced students regarding posi­
tions with the Edison Company. He 
is projecting a series of schools of 
salesmanship to be held in various 
cities throughout the country.
As instructors in these schools he 
engaged Paul M. Stinchfield, Indus­
tries graduate of ’21, who is at pres­
ent with the traffic department of the 
Pittsburgh Street Railways, and Dr. 
B. W. Robinson, Research assistant in 
the Bureau of Personal Research, who 
has a leave of absence to engage in 
this work. Dr. Robinson and Mr. 
Stinchfield leave for Orange, New Jer­
sey on January 21 to begin prepara­
tions for this course.
This experiment in teaching sales­
manship is being closely watched by 
a number of-large Industrial concern# 
engaged in marketing automobiles, of­
fice appliances and similar lines.
During Year 20-21—Also 
Receives One Out of Five 
Silver Medals.
FOR WORK 1920-21
On January 12, Director E. R. Bos- 
sange of the College of Fine Arts, re­
ceived a letter from the Société Des 
Architects Diplômes, stating that the 
Architectural Department of the Car­
negie Institute of Technology had 
won fame in Beaux Arts circles as 
having sent in the best work of all 
schools during the season of 1920-1921, 
and therefore had been awarded a 
gold medal in recognition’of their dis­
tinguished work.
The gold medal of the Société des 
Architects Diplômes par le gouverne­
ment Français, which was put in the 
hands of the American group for 
award to that institution which dis­
tinguished itself dui-ing the season 
1920-1921, in architectural teaching, 
according to Beaux Arts principles, 
was awarded to Carnegie Tech.
The work of the department last 
year was indeed worthy of such dis­
tinction. In the majority of the judg­
ments Tech came out on top. If there 
were any first medals given, Tech was 
on the list. If there were publica­
tions awarded Tech won out over all 
other schools represented. So excel­
lent was the work that the committee 
of the American group said in a let­
ter to the director > “Allow me to of­
fer you, for our group, our congratu­
lations on the really excellent results 
of the serious work shown by your 
students.”
Five silver medals were also award­
ed to the students who showed the 
highest standard in their Beaux Art 
work. These were distributed as 
follows: R. A. Fisher, “T” Square
Club, Philadelphia; A. E. Westover, 
Jr., “T” Square Club, Philadelphia; R. 
F. Larson, University oil Pennsylva­
nia; R. B. Thomas, Yale University, 
(Continued On Page Two.)
TAU SIGMA DELTA
INITIATION BANQUET
On Friday evening, January 13, tho 
Tau Sigma Delta Honorary Fraternity 
held their Initiation banquet at tho 
Hotel Schenloy.
Mr. C. J. Taylor,, a member of the 
faculty of the College of Fine Arts, 
was Initiated Into honorary member­
ship. Mr. Taylor is prominent iii tho 
artistic world, being a very capablo 
artist. As a professoi’ he is loved by 
his pupils and none c*\n say enough 
about his pleasing ways. Tau Sigma 
Delta is indeed fortunate in having a 
man of such calibre as one o£ tholr 
honorary members. Studonts initiated 
into membership were: E. W. Klee, C. 
J. Pellegrinni and Otto M. Olson, all 
of the Architectural Department, and 
Miss Martha Levy of Painting and Il­
lustrating. Miss Levy has the distinc­
tion of being the first woman to be 
initiated into Tau Sigma Delta.
Short talks were given by Messrs. 
H. Ilornbostel, I-I. Sternfeld -and J. 
Taylor.
MUSICAL DEPARTMENT
TO GIVE A SERIES OF 
SUNDAY EVENING RECITALS
A second series of Sunday evening 
recitals will Be given by the Music 
Department as follows: January 22
and 29, February 19 and 26. The pro­
gram for the 22d will he given by the 
Woodwind Ensemble Class. On Feb­
ruary 12 the Symphony Orchestra will 
give a concert in Carnegie Music Hall. 
The program for the 22d follows: 
Quintet for Flute, Oboe, Clarinet,
Horn aud Bassoon.........'... Pessard
Prelude and Minuet.
Alvin Hauser, Kiri Brietenbacli, Er­
nest Marina, Bernard Marini, Bene­
dict Brennan.
Trio for Three Flutes..............Rossini
Andante Pollacca, Andante, allegro. 
Alvin Hauser, John Ingram,
J. Merle Hosdowicli.
Trio for Flute, Violin and Piano...Cui 
Badinage, Berceuse, Scherzino. 
Bessie Hinebaugh, Marie Kleyle, 
Helen B. Johnson.
Duo for Two Clarinets.........Beethoven
Allegro sostenuto.
Theme and Variations.
Allegro assai.
Leo Hierholzer, Harry Aschenbrenner. 
Scene Des Champs[| Elyseos d’Or-
phee (Op. 43)  .................. Gluck
Alvin Hauser, Francis Kleyle, Allen 
Smith, Edward S tribray, Charles
Krane.
Quintet for Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, 
French Horn and Bassoon..Le Febre 
Alvin Hauser, Karl Brietenbacli, Er­
nest Marini, Bernard Marini, Benedict 
Brennan.
ANNUAL PROM. 
OF MEN’S JR. 
CLASS, FEB. 3
Mason-Dixon Seven Engaged 
For Occasion — Committee 
Orders Novel Favors -Pre­
liminary Tickets Out.
TICKETS ON SALE
TARTAN TO TAKE 
DISTINCTIVE NAME
Will Be Changed to “The 
Carnegie Tartan.”—New 
Banner Designed
With ttic nlglit oC Februury 3 but 
a few weeks off, more and more in­
terest is being shown in this year’s 
Junior Prom.
The announcement that the Mason- 
Dixon SeVen of Clarksburg, W. Va,, 
will play has brought forth approval 
from all sides and has been the de­
ciding factor for many whose deci­
sion to . attend “hung fire.”
Several of the favors wore re­
ceived a few days ago and they aro 
oven better than was expected—they 
will add a touch of distinctiveness to 
the dance.
Tho preliminary ticket snflo is 
well under way but lias noti mot with 
quito the desired respon^o. Juniors 
and Seniors both—will aid groatly in 
making the Prom a lml success il! 
they buy their preliminary ticket 
now—so como across! They may be 
secured from any of tho following: 
Industry, Reppller, McDonald, Fish­
er; Design, Bowers', Kreisol; Science, 
Bowman, Aiulorson, Brlllhan, Thomp­
son. Quite a .few Juniors have not' 
as yot paid their $1.50' assessment. 
Design is, ¡LOO per cent, paid up—how 
about Science and Industry?
Remember Juniors: “Tho biggest 
and best Prom over hold by .Carne­
gie Toch.”
PRESIDENT KENNEY MAKES
REPORT ON NATIONAL MEET 
AT SESSION OF C. M. E. S.
At the regular meeting of the Car­
negie Mechanical Engineering Soci­
ety last Thursday evening President 
Kenney gave a report on the National 
Meeting of the Student Branch of the 
American Society of Mechanical En­
gineers held in New York City during 
the Christmas 'holidays. All the tech­
nical schools of any moment east of 
the Mississippi were represented at 
this meeting.
There was considerable discussion 
on the question of appointing a com­
mittee from tihe three classes of Me­
chanicals to handle all matters be­
tween the Mechanicals and the Fac­
ulty. Motion was made, seconded 
and passed that such a committee be 
appointed. President Kenney will 
make the appointment some time this 
j week.
Then four reels of movies were 
shown. The movies were taken of 
the Mexican Oil Field around Tampi­
co. Pictures of one well were shown 
which, during the war, furnished 50,- 
000 barrels of oil daily to the British 
Navy and which on November 11, 
1918, Armistice Day, turned to a well 
of sailt water, a remarkable coinci­
dence. These movies .were distributed 
by the United States Bureau of 
Mines.
SCIENCE JUNIOR CLASS MEET.
At a meeting of the Junior class on 
last Wednesday several important 
affairs were taken care of.
A stunt committee for the Science 
stafe was appointed, composed of Bal- 
dus, Brumbaugh and Tostason. Gan­
non is the member on the general 
committee.
Bowman gave some information 
about the Junior Prom. Jack Evans 
talked about Thistle News and told 
of the new subscription campaign.
Porterfield reported that there will 
be a Junior Tea on Tuesday, JaDuarv
f-
Probably one of the most important 
actions taken by tho Student Activi­
ties Board at its last meeting was 
In regard to Tho Tartain. The 
board passed on the recommendation 
of The Tartan staff that tho name of 
tho weekly publication be lioreafter 
known as “Tlio Carnegie Tartan.” A 
great deal of discussion took iplaco 
before tho final motion cihanglng the! 
name was made, but tho words ofi 
one of tho member^ of the board, I 
“Our future Is far ahead of our short | 
past,” expresses in a fow words tho 
advisability of changing tho tradi­
tional “Tartan” to a name more dis­
tinctive of tho school. College pa­
pers throughput tho country om- 
body the name o£ tho school In tlio 
name of the paper and “Tho Carnoglo 
Tartan” will mean a great deal moro 
In connecting up tho paper with tho 
school than just, “Tl)o Tartan.”
Tho now Carnoglo banner was on 
hand and Is now ready to bo used 
at student gatherings. Tho design 
of the bannor Is very attractive and 
the battle grey "Carnoglo” on tho 
background oE Tartan Plaid Js very 
distinctive oE tho school.
Tlio Y. W. C. A. reported that Its 
name has been changed to tho “Car­
negie Tech Y. W. id. A.," and that?1 
organization will lioreafter be known 
on the campus by that name.
Various reports wore approved by 
tho board and a fow held over for 
investigation. Among those accepted 
were included tho following: C. I. 
T. Technical Journal, Tartan, Musical 
Clubs and tho Carnegie Band.
The board also passed a motion 
which embodied its revision of the 
inventory in the hands of the Budget 
Inventory iCommittee so as to include 
all property o£ the S. A. B. on, the 
campus. Under this motion, the in­
ventory will include all property held 
by organizations under the supervi­
sion of the 'Student Activities Board.
A motion refusing a girls' club 
the use of the Union was passed as 
well as a. motion granting the Stu­
dent Friendship Drive the free use 
of the Union for Its dance last Fri­
day evening.
(Continued From Page One.)
The Thistle Board ¦will be author­
ized as to the number of 1922 This­
tles to order -by the Student Activi­
ties Board according to a motion
MINE OFFICIALS AND
ENGINEERS INSPECT SCHOOL
It Is interesting to noto that no leas 
than flEtoon mino ofllclals and ongl- 
noers have vlsltod tho school alnco 
Decomber 9 for tho purposo oE In­
specting tho now mining laboratories. 
Theso men woro sent hero by mino 
operators who had visited tho school 
on Docombor 9.
Y. M. C. A. NOTES
DR. FARBER AT CHAPEL
Last Monday .Dr. B. F. Farber of 
the Sixth Presbyterian Church of 
Squirrel Hill, spoko at the weekly 
chapel in tlio Little Theater. He 
spoke on Christ's contribution to civ­
ilization and what we.owe to Him in 
education, art and engineering.
The number attending these- meet­
ings is about one hundred. It should 
•be larger, . the meeting place should 
be filled for at every meeting a 
j worth-while speaker talks on a sub­
ject which is of vital Interest to each 
and every student. Come out! Get 
; the habit—it’s only for a b'ief half 
j hour. You can spare it to show 
j these men the real Tech Spirit!
The “Y” has secured several fine 
speakers for the future weekly 
chapel meetings. These chapel meet­
ings are' for the students and it does 
not seem right to procure a good 
speaker for a small group. To war­
rant bringing men and women of 
note to the meetings it is urged that 
the student body come out and show 
a greater interest in the services. 
Now let us show Tech Spirit in the 
chapel.
Remember that the swims still con­
tinue at the Schenley High School 
every Wednesday evening. Good in­
struction is available to students that 
cannot swim. A good swim is a erood 
cure for a dull, dopy feeling, after a 
hard day’s work In studies.
The “Y” club room Is rapidly be­
coming a center of quiet study and 
a center oI activities] Organizations 
can- secure the; use of the room any 
day or evonlng by placing a reserva­
tion with Mr.'Davis, the Y. M. C, A. 
secretary. Room 124 B Industries.
Professor- Simpson continues with 
his class in Ancient Manuscripts 
every Wednesday atj 12:30. It is well 
worth the while ofv the students to 
at tend - these discussions. Professor 
Simpson is well v.ft'sed in the sub 
ject having don •Icons Iderable re­
search work at th tjniversity of Chi- 
‘cago along these
(Jniversity of Ch
T
ENTERTAINING PROGRAM 
AT GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Tlio Student Friendship Drlvo for 
studonts In Europe was Inaugurated 
at tho General Assembly in tho Music 
Hall Wednesday,
Professor Ilowor’s experiences In 
his travels In Europe this summer 
onabled him to explain vividly tho 
conditions oxlstlng among studonts in 
Europe at tho prosont time. Frank I. 
Olmstond, of tho national headquar­
ters oE tho Student Friendship Fund, 
acquainted tho students with the pur­
pose oE tho drive, Mr. Olmstoad Is 
chairman of tho Penn State Y. M, 0. 
A.
Tho annual award oE tho lntorfrator- 
nlty scholarship cup for tho year 1921- 
22 was made to Bota Thota PI, Doan 
Tarbell announced that Sigma Kpsllon 
Phi ranked socoiul with Delta Upsllon 
third.
The .Girls’ Gloe Club, togothor with 
band, furnished the assembly with 
plenty along the musical lino, tho 
band adding a great deal of pep to 
the occasion.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUBS
OF PITT AND CARNEGIE
TECH COMBINE
On January 6, the lai/t stop was 
taken toward the union of tho Pitt 
and Carnegie Tech Cosmopolitan 
Clubs. The twd clubs, on that date, 
held a meeting at which a board of 
management was elected comprising: 
Miss R. Paige (Pitt), Miss L. O. Da­
vies (Carnegie Tech), D. J. McTighe 
(Pitt), M. Tirona (Pitt), P. J. Svabek 
(Carnegie Tech), J. Bendler (Pitt), J. 
R. Poloma (Carnegie Tech).
Several days later the board elected 
the officers for the new club. The 
officers are: President, J. R. Poloma; 
vice president, Miss Paige; secretary, 
D. J. McTighe; treasurer, M. Tirona.
Friday evening, January 13, a meet­
ing was held for the purpose of in­
stalling the officers.
The new club will be a chapter of 
the Corda Fratres’ Association of Cos­
mopolitan Clubs. The Carnegie Tech 
Club had been a member of the asso­
ciation. At the convention of the na­
tional association, held at Minneapo­
lis, tho new club was granted a char­
ter. Last year the Carnegie Tech 
Club was the vice presidential chapter 
of the third district. The new club 
will still hold this position.
OFFICIALS EXPLAIN MID-YEAR 
ADMISSIONS TO HIGH SCHOOLS
Applications aro being received at 
tlvo offico of tho Registrar for ad­
mission to tho Freshman class at 
tho beginning of tho second semos- 
ter which opens February 6. Nearly 
fifty applications have boon rocolvod 
and it is expected t;liat there will bo 
a sufficient number admitted to form 
at least threo sections. Heretofore 
the Institute has not encouraged tho 
admission of Freshmen at mid-year 
and, in order that all the high 
schools may understand the new ar­
rangement for tho admission of 
Freshmen students In February. Dr. 
Barto and Mr. Bright, plan to visit all 
the local liigli schools during the 
month of January.
BETA THETA PI WINS 
SCHOLARSHIP CUP
Cup Awarded At Assembly 
Sigma Epsilon Phi INext 
Delta Upsilon Tnirc
Beta Tlieta PI Is tho winner of 
tho 1920-21 Interfratornity (Scholar­
ship Cup after having taken perma­
nent possession of tho cup proviously 
given for high scholarship. Sigma! 
Epsilon Phi ranked- second In tho 
competition with Delta Upsllon a 
close third.
The scholarship cup was first do­
nated by tho Faculty Club in 1915 
when it was won by Bota Thota PI. 
In 1916 tho cup was again won by 
Bota. In 1917 and 1918 it was vrçïth- 
drawn from competition on account 
of tho disorganizing of fraternities 
by the S. A. T. Cj Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon took tho cup In 1910, only 
to loso .It, to Bota who camo back 
strong tho next yoar. As Beta 
Thota PI had won tho cup throo 
tlmos it tlion bocnmo tho permanent 
possossion of that fraternity.
Tho now cup is now n/?aln in tho 
hands oE Bota though this fraternity 
rocolvod a great deal or competition 
by Slgnm Epsilon Phi and Dolta Up­
sllon.
Tho method) oC a,ward each yoar 
consists In adding all tho ipolnts of, 
quality scoured by tho mombors ot 
tho fraternity and dividing by tho 
numbor of mombors. Only tho Ini­
tial grados obtained by tho students 
are considered.
Owing to tho faot that, only six- 
toon ot tho nlnotoon social fratorul* 
ties at Carnoglo at prosont woro In 
oxlstonco In tlmo to ontor into tho 
competition for tho cup this your 
tho ontlro fratornlty onrollmont Is 
not roprosontod.
PLAID FIVE 
WINS FROM 
LAFAYETTE
Burst of Speed in Second 
Half Clinches Game—New­
man, Potter and Dosey 
Sturs.
SCORE WAS 55 TO 37
Tho strong Lafayette basket ball 
team went down to defeat last Sat­
urday nlglit at Motor Square Garden 
before the Tech cagomen by tho 
score of 56-37. The atack was led by 
Newman and Dosey and those two 
scored enough points alone to defeat 
Lafayette. s
Tech got the jump on Lafayetto 
shortly after the game started when 
Dosoy shot the first basket for tho 
Plaid and Lafayette never gained the 
lead during the remainder of tho 
game, only once succeding in tying 
the scoro. At the end of the first ha'lf 
Tech led by the score of 28-20> duo 
to the splendid playing oE Dosoy, who 
scored five field goals and fivo free 
throws In that many attempts.
The Tartans opened tho second half 
with a burst of speed and LaEayotto 
never had a chance of stopping them. 
Newman's work during thiis luilf was 
simply wonderful. Ho was all over'tho 
court and the Lafayette guards found 
It Impossible to block his shots, ho 
scoring six baskets in this half and 
moro than once breaking up tho op­
ponents’ offensive. Tho work of tho 
wholo team was exceptionally good, 
tho LaEayotto Cage men being unable 
to break through tho Carneglo Tech 
do Con so duo to the dose guarding of 
tho Toch team. Longacro and Crate 
starred for t'lio visitors, while Reeves' 
shooting of 'I'oulls Was ronmrknblo, 
making 15 out. of 19 attempts. In thin 
respect Dosey was Just as good, ho 
(Contli'uod On Pago Two.)
IND. JUNIOR MEETING
Tho Junior class hold a mooting 
Thursday, January 12, at which four 
Important I tom's woro brouglul, up.
Tho total ostlmatod expenses of 
tho Prom woro given which amount­
ed to $2,175.0.0, Tho assessment of 
.$1.50 of each Junior was shown to 
bo woll supported by tho other 
schools, luit tho percentages el' tho 
Industries Juniors Is very low.
Suggestions! on tho (ianibol of tho 
Ou lids aro now rocolvod «by tho oofn- 
mlttoo consisting of C. F. Johnson, 
L. T. Johnson, M. N. lloabach and 
Slillllnger.
President R. W. Marshall appoint­
ed A. F. Elchorn to organize a 
(basket ball team.
. President Marshall also urged 
everyone to buy a Foreign. Student’s 
Relief Tag to aid in making the 
drlvo 100 per cent.
Employment Bureau Denies 
Rumor Regarding Banquets
There have been many rumors 
started by students who use the serv­
ice of the Employment Bureau in re­
gard to waiting jobs such as report 
ing banquet dates for the Bureau and 
also giving out reports that certain 
banquets have been cancelled. The 
Bureau wishes to state that all In­
formation in regard to banquets will 
be given out from the office and 
furthermore urges that “YOU” do 
not rely on reports that are passed 
along on tilio campus This causes 
trouble for the student, the employ­
ment bureau and the hotel. The Bu­
reau is your agent, so please depend 
upon Its service and we will be re­
sponsible to the other party.
J. W. BATMAN, 
Assistant Alumni Executive Secy.
ARCHITECTS FINISH
PROBLEMS FOR BEAUX ART8
The Junior« ¦completed a design of 
a “Casino In the West Indies" and 
tho Sophomores a '"Commemorative 
Monument." Five Juniors completed 
“An Archaeology" entitled "A Span­
ish Doorway."
INSURANCE MEN MEET TO
CO-OPERATE WITH TECH
There will be a meeting of the offi­
cers representing twenty or more life 
Insurance companies at Cincinnati, O., 
on January 19. They will develop 
nlans for co-operative research at 
r’arnegie Tech. Dr. Yoakum and Dr. 
Hansen will represent the school at 
this discussion.
MR. KIRKPATRICK DI8CUSSES
INDIA BEFORE TEKNON CLUB
Pi Kappa Alpha Gets 
Chapter At Tech
The Zeta Delta Fraternity to 
Hold Installation Jan, 23
Tho Zeta Delta frntornlty ha» Just 
rooontly boon gmntod a charter In ri 
Kappa Alpha. PI Kappa Alpha Is a 
nalilonnl fratoni II, y, wlth forty-flyo nc- 
tlvo (¡Implora. Untll 11)09 Lilla frator­
nlty was dlstlnoMvoly soUthorn, hut 
slnoo thut timo, thoy huvo oxpandod 
lo tho north and west, Tho Installa- 
tion of tho locai chaptor w11 1 talco 
placo 011 tho twonty-thlrd of Janunry.
MENORAH 80CIETY MEETING
Al. tho. liu.it meeting of Ilio Mono- 
rnh Hoclotiy, .lanuary 8, Mr, Charles 
.Joseph d'IsciUMiocl Ilio subjónl oC 
'‘Env.lronmont." W'hon ho 'had llnlsh- 
od tho moni hors purlloUpatod in a 
generai dlscusslon.
Tho uext meeting of Ilio socloty 
¦wlll ho on Jnnuàry 22, Room 102 
Arts Building. All mombors aro 
urgod to corno to tho meeting a» 
Mr. Joseph wlll ho thoro wlth an 
lntorostlng talk. At tho samo timo 
lmportant announoemont wlll ho 
mudo. All aro welcome.
THE M. M. C. JUNIOR PROM
Why are the Seniors all heaving 
and the Juniors all a-twitter? The 
Junior Prom Is fast approaching, in 
fact, It’s right ahead!
Animated girls talk about him—new 
fans, new combs, lovely dresses. It’s 
going to bo a real gala occasion.
Juniors talk mysteriously about 
favors—all tho information one can 
get Is that they are “very nice” and 
thoy think the Seniors will like them.
The Schenley, Friday, January 20th, 
nine o’clock—the “psychological mo­
ment” for which the Junior, Senior 
and S. I. V. girls are waiting.
Electricals Hold Smoker
Mr, Klrkpatrlck of tho English De­
partment, gavo a very Intorestingi 
talk at thè meeting of thè Teknon 
Club last Thursday evenlng on con-i 
dltions in India. Ho spont I wo years 
teachlng In India and so ha» al 
broad Inaigli!, of thè condltlons thoroI 
and Ilio causo of thom. Ho spelte 
of tho casto system and tho rnany 
other thlngs that prevonl, tho mon­
tai as woll as tho spiritual dovelop* 
ment of tho periplo, 'l'ho rolalion 
betwoen tho Englls'h peoplo and In­
dia through Britlsli rulo was also 
brouglit out, Brillali rule and Chris- 
tianity havo mado vast Improvemonts 
thoro and it is thè duty of all Chris-1 
tian peoples to aid thoao peop'e hold 
down by Ignorante and superstltlon.
The Teknon Club is maklni? pian.-* 
to hold a ploighing party somotimo 
in tho Immediato future.
Now you see it1; now youi don’t. 
Cards, coins—in iact everything dis­
appeared .before your eyes and ap­
peared again out of the air before 
the Electricals assembled at the de­
partmental smoker last Friday night. 
Prol’easor Ely held the interest of 
the crowd for more than an hour 
with his great variety of sleight-of- 
hand tricks and most of those who 
saw him perform aro still wonder­
ing at his skill.
But Prof, Ely’s entertainment, was 
only one of tho many numbers on 
the program. Movies, three rocls, 
were ono of the numbers. Hugh 
Sprinkle, tho heavyweight and Red 
Cummins, tho lightweight, exchanged 
tholr Lltlos, tho former champion, in 
tho rcforoos’a decision, going down to 
defeat.
Tho real wrestling -match, of tho 
evening wmj the Jack.on-Cummlns 
number, Sophomore and Junior alike, 
after struggling for a quarter of an 
hour failed to gain a decision and 
tho match resulted In a draw, 
j “Primary" Bryan and “Secondary” 
Johnston iput on a boxing exhibition 
that showed that both of them should 
have been named "Secondary.”
Wherever Electricals congregate 
there ;is always music and 4 Friday 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANWEDNESDAY. JANUARY 18, 1922
— m Gfariatt
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered In the Postolflco of Pittsburgh as socoai-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES ............................................................ Editor-in-Chior
Telephone, Ilascd 9398
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................. Business Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211
VIC. II. STROMQUIST ............................................................... Managing Editor
Telephones—Schonloy D180 or HUand 858
.HELEN V. LEWIS ......................................................................... AflBoelato Editor
Telephone—Schonloy 9079
Jj, J. WHITEHEAD ..................................................................... Associate Editor
Telophono—Schonloy 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND..............................................................................News Editor
Tolophono—Schonloy 9070
II. F. SIMPSON...........................................................................Athlotlo Editor
Telophono—Schonloy 9070 
p VV ddYTON ......................................................................... Photographer
a A llltlKMAN ‘.V. ¦ ¦ ¦................................................................ *«*"»*' W).!^
OL.X SONNIOMANN ............................................................. Advortlolng Mamigfcr
Telophono—Schonloy 9211
E L RIELLY ....................................................................... Circulation Manager
I N 1.OV7COAR AEEOEVAGVE
Gladys Boguo, M. Schumachor, H. F. Dletor, A. Lubin, Vincent Roy, 
p. 0. MnoKoiulo, II. II. Lothowltz, H. II. WllBon, K. b. McKoo, w. . . Bdton, 
h. Hsruuitn. F. 'I'. I'holpH. IS. J. MttlMt, K. P. Hay, .1. A. Uougliorly, M. H. 
Downes, W. G. Sullivan, II. W. Browall, F. C. Smith, H. J. McCormick, L.
Byorly, L. M. Klllnl.l.._______________________________________________________________-
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. M. Cooper 13- Sowors W. B. Cunningham
Tho Edltor-ln-Chlof Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing, Editor for tho make up._______________________
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest. If signod, 
signature will bo withhold If desired. All nuws items must bo in tho student 
post ofllco before 4: <10 Friday.
Tartan Olilco—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Olllce hours—Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00._________________________________________
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Spread over the country, there are many technical schools oil 
varying degrees oJ! importance. In the community in which they are 
situated they aro known as “Tech,” as we are known in Pittsburgh. 
The newspapers term us Tartans, Skibos, Lairds, the Plaid, Carnegie 
Tech and mostly, just “Tech,”
To Andrew Carnegie we owe the major part of our education and 
ho lias given to this school his name. Officially, this school is known 
as the “Carnegie Institute oi! Technology.” If we are going to ab­
breviate, let us embody the name “Carnegie” in whatever abbrevia­
tion we may use.
To the public and our friends let us be known, not as “Tech,” 
a name common throughout the country, but as Carnegie Tech and if 
we must abbreviate further, let us use “Carnegie” alone, rather than 
“Tech” alone. The word “Tech”, may mean any of the technical 
schools and if we wish to impress the public that wo are different 
from our contemporaries, wo must stamp tho name “Carnegie,” our 
trade mark, on all of our work and organizations that come before 
the public.
Tho Tartnn. lias taken cognizance of these facts and with the 
approval of the Student Activities Board the official name of this 
weekly paper will bo “Tho Carnegie Tartan.” The necessary change 
in the title-head will be made as, soon as a now design is completed.
MORE CULTURE
Few, biit those who attend the chapel services in tho Arts realize 
the real value of this new institution upon, our campus. Living 
essentially in a world of science at Tech, we arc perhaps too often apt 
to forgot the cultural side ol! our education. All should therefore 
welcome tho opportunity to spend a pleasing, profitable and different 
•hour at the wookly chapel services.
Tho attendance in tho past, with a few exceptions, has not been 
what one would expect. With ministers of widely different denom­
inations, and people of international roputation presenting thoughts 
filled with educational and. moral value, tho capacity audience should 
bo the rule and not the exception. In short, there should bo evidence 
of tho dosiro for moro culture at Toch.
“BARE CIVILITY”
“Things which aro regarded with bare civility by tho local col­
ony of odiiiors.” If it is tlio King’s English we use, then the truth 
hurts, but if it is bocauso tho Shilling receives no froo advertising or 
tho Tartnn did not notice their first issue, wo havo a reason-—not 
m.itil two clays ago woro wo able to got hold of a Shilling.,i Wo had 
tho nooossary chango in our pockets, and more than ordinary curi­
osity, but that couldn't procure the much-covotod mogazino.
STUDENTS’ CALENDAR
STOUGFO7EOXUHYY AG. L,PCE.AYB WAGPACY FO, AG. in
(“Tho Prince That Was a Pipor”
Theater, 8:15 P. M.................................(“Tho Death of Tintagilos”
(“Tho Unrecorded Tale” 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 20
4:00 I*. M......................................(“Tho Prince That “Was a Piper” and
8:00 P. M‘......................................( “Tho Unrecorded Tale”
9:00 P.M.—Dance, Woman’s Junior Prom................................Schenley
!) :00 P. M.—Dunce, Four-School Plebe.:..................................Arts Foyer
Basket Bttll—-Toch vs. Grove City....................................................Away
SATURDAY, JANUARY 21
8:15 p. M.—Three Plays as Above.........................................Arts Theater
Basket Ball*—Tech vs. Allegheny......................................................Away
SUNDAY, ‘J ANUARY 22
8:15 P. M.—Music Recital.......................................................Arts Theater
MONDAY, JANUARY 23
12:50 P. M.—Chapel.................................................................Arts Theater
TUESDAY, JANUARY 24
4:30 P. M.—Dance, Four-School Junior Party......
7:30 P. M.—Faculty Dancing Class.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 27
8:15 P. M.—Basket Ball—Tech vs. W. & J....1......
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28
8:15 P. Mi—Basket Ball—Tech vs. Grove City......
SUNDAY, JANTJAHY 29 
8:15 P. M.—Music Recital...
MONDAY; JANUARY 30
12:50 P. M.—Chapel ..............................................
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3
.................Union
.........Tech Gym
...Motor Square
....Arts Theater
... Arts Theater
The M. M. C. Shilling 
A Unique PublicationROAMIN’S
Re-enter, Tho Shilling!
Heralded by no more fanfare of 
trumpets thftrt this unpretentious an-' 
nouncement would indicate, recently 
occurred one of the most important 
events ot the school year, irom an 
undergraduate point of view.
Tills little magazine Is devoted toj 
everything which one would hope toj 
find, emphasized In publications of 
our school; things "which have been 
regarded with bare civility by the 
local colony of editors.
In spite of the important place 
given to tne alpplled art» on tho 
Tech curriculum, In spite of tho fact! 
that much excellent work in composi­
tion and the graphic art is done oni 
tho campus, nowhere, except in tho 
monthly impertinence, Puppet, is 
space given to the arts, except critic­
ally; and it can hardly be said that] 
Puppet regards tho arts or anything 
else, even itself, very respectfully.
Tho apipearance, then, under new 
management, of this journal particu­
larly devoted to the arts, and espec-i 
ially to tho art of literature, means 
moro than, the publication of just! 
"just another magazine." It means 
that tho school has a type of publi-j 
cation not elsewhere provided; one! 
which commands the respect—and 
should receive the support—of every 
student who desires a broader and| 
better school.
Tho first number of the -rejuven­
ate^ Shilling presents hopeful omens. 
A brace of excellent short-stories, 
two creditable ones1, a number of sin­
cere — and sometimes effective— 
verses; theBo are among the literary 
wares, to be found in the newly 
opened bazaar. Nor is the lighter 
side of school life entirely neglected, 
as "Lazy Limericks,” and "Found in 
a Professor’s Folio,” witness.
While tho//management of the pub­
lication is in the hands of a board 
of editors-composed1 of Margaret Mor­
rison students, the columns of the 
paper are open to any student of 
Carneglo Tech who has anything to 
say in tlio form of essay, fiction or 
verse. Provided, of ..course, that it 
Is well enough said. The members 
of tho board are as follows: Editor,
Marion MflComibs; Associate Editor, 
Dorothy Grant; Assistant Editors, 
Gladys Boguo, Helen Duicom.be, Anne 
Kirker. The business end of the 
magazine ¡being hanaled by Isabelle 
Winner, business manager and her 
two assistants, Lillian Coleman and 
Blair Jessop.
—CONTRIBUTED.
MUSICAL CLUBS OPEN
SEASON AT TARENTUM
(Contlnued From Page One.) 
surprlses wlll ho sprung in tlie na­
turo of noveltios. Among theso will 
ho tho black-faco «tunt by O. B. 
Nownmn and Web Cunningham. 
Thero is also an umstrung rjuartet in 
proparatlon which wlll play anythlng 
from opera to blues. Tho novelty 
orchestra wlll ho on hand to llvon 
tfiiings up and tho ali-star trio will 
play, For furthor detalls as Lo ollgi- 
b 111 ty and1 Instruiotlons watcli thè bul- 
lotln hoards.
The lioxt concert on tho illnorary 
I» Now Konsington on tho 27th of 
Ibis monti) and thon tho Olilo trlip 
starila on February 15. The cltlos 
!;o ho vlBlltod on l.hls trip, aro Alcron, 
Orvlllo, Palnsvlllo and Cleveland. The 
woeliMmu fojlowlng thafc wlll ho oc­
cupici by tho Erio trip. It is 
hopod tliat all mon wlll ho ollglblo' 
for l:lio«o l.rlps bui; 0110 thlng whichI 
Illusi; ho Uopi; In mlnd D, thut goodj 
'ttchobiriihlp and porfoct attorniai) co 
nt rohoaimle aro tho maln requistos 
l’or ollglblllty.
Old Damo Rumor. Is now strutting. 
Around the campus. With the sad 
tidings. That Ship Ahoy and the 
Extravaganza. Are to have. No 
rivals. This year. In short, The arts 
show is to be. Abolished. Roamer 
hopes this is only a rumor. For we 
look on tho show. As an Institution. 
Just as tho football team. And more 
because it ftpelled. Tech from begin­
ning to end, We would not stop ouj* 
engineers from shop visits. And ypt 
wo abolif/li. Tho onfly chance the stu­
dents of Arts. Have to face. The cold 
world on a commercial basis. Is not 
tho time lost in school work. Well 
repaid In profitable experience? Be­
sides we aro dropping another Toch 
InHtitutlon. Something which other 
colleges cannot put on. And some^ 
thing we havo always supported. Let's 
hope. It's only a rumor.
Speaking of Institutions. When 
will Tech have a commons. Instead 
of a beanery. Ninety per cent of a 
Yale man's , spirit. Is Injected with 
food. At die commons. The place 
where you gather. And talk with your 
daily companions. Of the wonderful 
grit of the team Oast week. Or the 
latest news from the Student Council. 
Of topics of interest in general at 
school. But at Tech it's entirely dif­
ferent. You grail) a tray and grab 
some food. Then you run for the near­
est seat. You gobble your food and 
•beat It out. And they call that a 
college man’s meal. No favorite table 
do you choose. No constant group 
do you form. It’s just the cold busi­
ness. Of eating. And then they won­
der why. «Spirit sags at Tech.
EXCUSES
As we meander through thiis school, 
Wo notice many different kinds of 
folks.
Some types are quite agreeable 
But there are many which are not. 
Among the ones whom we don't like 
Are those who always have excuses 
For everything that they don’t do. 
Of course it never is their fault 
But things just seem to happen wrong 
And so he must excuse himself,
Or you will think that he’s to blame. 
These are the kind who sit and waste 
’Bout half their time during a test 
Making themselves an excuse 
Which they can give if they don’t 
paBS.
When these folks show up on a date 
And when they'ro late (they always 
are)
They always have some poor excuse 
To tell wihty they were not on time, 
But this excuse won’t make up time 
The .show’s half over when they 
come.
No wonder all the girls steer clear 
Of fellows who waste precious time 
In telling why they are so late.
And when this type gets into sports 
They merely change the word around 
He now has alibis instead 
And everything ¡that he does wrong 
Is not his fauHt, as hie can prove 
If you will only let him tell 
Just how It happened on the field. 
You know some fellows just like that 
Or maybe you yoursolf are one.
In that case there's one thing to do 
And that Is quit. And from now on 
When you are wrong don’t say a word 
Although you havo a good excuse. 
.Tust keep excuses to yourself,
And if they ask you to explain 
Why, just explain, do not excuse 
And take whatever comes your way. 
Woll soon that habit will be gone 
And you'HI be nearer by a mile 
To what we cnlli a real Toch Man.
—F. C. S.
9:00 P. M.—Dance, Men’s Junior Prom....................Hotel Schenley
!fi5M3MM3Mc!Mc!Ji5Mc!ÍSÍ0[é!Mc!MDlMc!MSJSÍSÍ3MSMMSfSÍSMM3MSMSMSMSMMSJBílSMSJSJ
Oakland Community House
TAKEVOIRCHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers.Pool Tournament, jii Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play mul sing.
Club, fail ; or committee meetings.
“Just visit.”
I SUNDAYS
| Bible Study Classes.......... .............10:00 A. M.
[| Quiet......................................Sunday afternoon
ij Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young people’s meeting............5:30-7:S0 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time. 
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQUET STItEETS
PLAID FIVE WINS
FROM LAFAYETTE
(Continued From Pago One.) 
making in out of 18 attempts from 
tho foul line.
Tho crowd was small, but although 
they wore lacking in numbers they 
made up for it in spirit. The hand 
played several selections between the 
halves while the cheers were led by 
“Ducky” Allen and Henninger.
The lineup:
Tech—55 Lafayette—37
Dosey...............F. .....................Longacro
Newman............F..............................Crate
Pot ter...............Cl. .................Brennen
Allen..................G..........................Reeves
Bell...................G...............King
Substitutions—Goden for Bell, Repa 
for Crate, Crate for Brennen, Howells 
for King. Field goals — Newman 9. 
Dosey 7, Potter 2, Allen 2, Bell Crate 
5, Longacre 4, Reeyes 2. Foul Goals— 
Dosey 13 out of 16, Reeves 15 out of 
19. Referee — Dougherty. Umpire— 
Baird.
SIGMA EPSILON PHI
Sigma Epsilon Phi announces pledg­
ing of G. McCandless Porter of the 
Electrical Department; J. J. I-Iorrity, 
Science, ’2-1; V. M. Mollernauer. De­
sign, '25; E. P. Couse, Design, '24.
Captain and Mrs. Edward Steidle 
were guests at the cliaJpter house 
on Sunday, January S.
XI SIGMA UPSILON
On Friday evening. January 13, 
Mr. Frank J. Lannahan was initiated 
into the fraternity of Xi Sigma Upsi­
lon. He is a member of the Board 
of Trustees and a prominent! Pitts­
burgh business man.
Recently he was appointed by the 
hoard as their repretsentative 
the Athletic Council.
A. E. F. SPORT DIRECTOR
AT LAST CHAPEL
(Continued From Page One.) 
live skill. With this idea in mind, 
thero is always one man who is 
host, and a largo number who aro 
almost; as good.
Ono of tho groatost benefits of tho 
"play system" is to creato friend­
ships between the pooplo and nations 
participating In those games, This 
system will eventually broalc down 
tho casto system in India, and has 
alroady creatoci regret, for the Filipi­
nos by the Japanese, who are not 
so physically fit. Tho Roumanian 
Army has adopted this syjjtom, and 
ilnd It much to their advantage by 
permitting a man to remain out of 
sorvlco If bo is physically lit.
Mr. Brown’s address was highly ap­
prodai od by all who were able to 
boar It. and certainly left with a 
( greater appreciation for the Amori- 
¡| j can system of fair play in games and 
Ì1] athletic, sports.
ARTS THEATER
NEWS OF THE DRAMA
Those interested in a varied pro­
gram of one-act plays will have little 
difficulty in finding entertainment this I 
week at the Little Theater, where an 
unusual interesting bill is being 
given every night this week. The 
three one acts are: "The Death of
Tentageles,” an allegorical play, in 
five scenes by the famous Belgian, 
Maurice Maeterlinck. The play is full 
of intense emotion and suppression 
which is even carried out in the stage 
settings. This is the first time on the 
Tech Btage where the "new” theater 
staging has been tried out. The sec­
ond is a very colorful and vivid melo­
drama laid in old Persia, "The Unre­
corded Tale,” is really the thousand 
and second Arabian Nights' Tale. 
This playlet should prove very popu­
lar to all people as it contains all the 
human emotions The last is the first 
Freshman production, "The Prince 
That Was a piper,” a fairy play in one 
set. Tills will be the first production 
the entire drama Plebes have acted as 
an entire body. This should prove in­
teresting. We hope much new talent 
will shine forth as has been the cus­
tom each year the drama Plebes will 
go to triail to be sentenced for their 
terrible acting in their first production 
and will serve punishment each noon 
at one o’clock in the foyer of the Arts 
Building. This will commence next I 
Monday and continue all through the 
week. All. those Interested in Plebe 
regulations should see7 these stunts 
each day.
Old students should know—new stu­
dents may be glad to learn—that 
Pittsburgh has a store which special­
izes on Greeting Cards for all pur­
poses—Friendship, Birthday, Anniver­
sary, Wedding, Convalescent, etc., 
namely, the Singer Pen and Gift Shop 
in Jenkins Arcade.
Shadyside 
Barber Shop
JOS. E. KRUMM, Prop. 
5522 WALNUT STREET
'SJSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSSMSieMSJSMSMSS]
There’s only one place to skate in Pittsburgh—
•BUT
It’s the best place in the world— 
DUQUESNE GARDEN
Special session for students on Saturday morning. 
Special student rates 3:30 daily. Best music.
AND—
In the big ballroom upstairs, the best floor 
and the best music (Harrison-Hollins) in 
-Pittsburgh.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MEN’S FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
Next week is the three hundredth 
anniversary of Moliere, the famous 
French writer and actor, and the 
Drama Department is one of the few 
schools in the world that are celebrat­
ing it. Two of this author’s plays 
will be given to run every other night, 
Don Juan” and "Learned Ladies,” 
two very worthy and' highly amusing 
comedies,.
Miss Lois Shore, an ex-member of 
the Drama Department, is playing a 
leading role In "Miss Lulu Betts,” a 
current attraction at the Pitt theater 
and was a guest of that department 
last week. She is a very clever child 
actress and has great success waiting 
for her.
NOTICES
The weekly swims at the Schenley 
High School will continue, and all the 
men students are invited to come out 
and swim, Wednesday, at 7:30, at the 
Schenley High School, under the aus­
pices of the Y. M. C. A.
Professor Simpson’s class in An­
cient Manuscripts will meet in the Y. 
club rooms, 124-A Industries, Wednes­
day at 12:30, and all are asked to meet 
with the group.
Al Mays’ discussion group for the 
Freshmen meet Friday in the Y club. 
This is of great interest to all Fresh­
men.
Friday at 4:00 the Drama Depart­
ment will give “The Prince That Was 
a Piper” and “The Unrecorded Tale,*' 
to which all the students are Invited 
to attend. No tickets are required.
Sunday, at 8:15, the Music Depart­
ment will give another of its musical 
recitals for which no tickets are re­
quired. Music by tho Wood wind en­
semble.
All organizations are requested to 
notify L. Hut’/man, Box 173, care of 
the Tartan,’ C. I. T. Post Olllce, of all 
mootings and gatherings on and off 
tho campus.
JACQUES DANciNG ACADEMY........I
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET X
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year. ???
BELL PHONE *:*
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
THE HIPPODROME
NEW YORK CITY
|CVEW people know that the two Hippo- 
drome stages are gigantic Otis Elevators, 
whose plungers have a total combined lifting 
capacity in excess of haif-a-million pounds. 
The main stage may be lowered to be used 
as a tank, giving a depth of thirteen feet of 
water.
This may surprise some who know Otis 
only as makers of elevators. The Otis 
institution, reaching out into every country 
of the .civilized world, is a gigantic engineer­
ing organization devoted to the vertical 
transportation of men and materials. Nothing 
in this field is too big for Otis—nothing so 
small that it has not been included in their 
accomplishments’.
Pioneer in the elevator industry, leader from 
the first, Otis still keeps years ahead and is 
even now planning,' building, inventing and 
designing for a future leadership as sure as 
that Otis now holds.
Most of.ific famous building!; of the world 
arc equipped with Otis Elevators.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Oflicc« In all Principal Cltic« of tbc World
TAU GAMMA PHI
Last Saturday thirty members and 
pledges of the Gamma Sigma chapter 
of Delta Tau Delta were entertained 
at a smoker held at the house. Music, 
stunts and refreshments aided in 
making the evening a success. Plans 
for a basket ball game between the 
two fraternities were discussed.
Dean Scales of Margaret Morrison 
and Mr. Ashe of the Painting and Il­
lustrating Department, were guests 
at the house for Sunday pinner.
Unfortunately Tau Gam dropped 
the first game to Kappa Sigma. The 
game was a fast ono, but the former 
champs did not show their usual team 
work.
Herb Spencer called Monday even­
ing for a short .time.
CITMAS CLUB TO MEET
[g Tho Cltmos Club will meet Thurs- 
g day evening, January 19, 7; so, in 
b'SM2J2MS/SMaiaMSM the Y. M. C. A. Club Room.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
ARCHITECTURAL DEPARTMENT
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
and B. Diorks, Carnoglo Toch.
It Is Indood va groat honor to bo ca­
pable of competing and triumphing 
over such schools as tho Universities 
of Columbia, Cornell, Syracuse, Kan­
sas, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, 
Chicago School of Architecture, John 
Huntington Polytechnic Institute, Yale 
and Harvard.
From all the results this year Car­
negie Tech seems to be on top. And 
if t;lie men will only do as they have 
dono thero is no doubt that Tech will 
be picked for tho season 1921-1922.
The committee of the American 
group consisti», of Messrs. Lloyd War­
ren, Edwin I-/ Deubv, James Gamble 
Rogers, W. n Delano, Joseph H.
Freedlander ¦[ John M. Howells*
In Architecture—
THEN you go after your first big commission, you’ll
V V need something more than a knowledge of stresses 
and strains, periods and piping. You’ll need the atmosphere 
of success, and the air of knowing your way ’round. One 
evidence of this familiarity with the world’s good things is 
the habit of preferring that citizen of the world—
cMelachrino
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over ”
Remember that Melachrino is the master blend 
of only the finest Turkish Tobaccos as origin­
ated l^yMiltiades Melachrino. Egyptian cigar­
ettes are simply those that originated in Egypt. 
But the tobacco is what you want to know 
about—and if it’s Melachrino—it’s right.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1922THE TARTANTHREE
FIVE TO TAKE
SECOND TRIP
Will Play Grove City and 
Allegheny Away
The Carnegie Tech basket ball 
team will take its second trip of the 
present season this week, when 
games will be played witb Grove City 
and Allegheny at Grove City College 
and Allegheny College respectively.
Both of these games will give Car­
negie Tech perhaps the hardest tests 
of the present season, for it will be 
remembered that Gove City won the 
sectional championship of Western 
Pennsylvania last season’ and Alle­
gheny in both games played forced 
the Plaid floor men to play perhaps 
as hard as they played in any game 
during the season. Grove City won 
both games from Tech by the scores 
of 32-29 and 43-20, while the reverse 
was the case in the Allegheny games, 
Tech Winning 31-27 and 31-29.
This year Grove City has the same 
team on the floor as last season, and 
predictions are strong for them to re­
peat last year’s successes; but, to re­
peat over the Plaid team will call 
forth much better basket ball than 
was necessary last season, for it is 
believed that the Carnegie Tech team 
has hit its stride, and frohi now on 
will give all opponents a battle from 
the beginning to the end.
Much satisfaction to the student 
body was evident by the fine show­
ing made against Lafayette, which 
was a compdete reversal in form from 
that shown the previous night 
against Wash-Jeff. The appearance 
of the band and cheer-leaders did 
much to help cheer the team to its 
victory, and it is hoped that this good 
work will continue, and thereby ma­
terially aid in • swelling crowds to 
the Motor Square Garden capacity.
W. & J. CAGERS’
WIN LOOSE GAME
Carnegie Tech lost a loosely played 
basket ball game with Washington 
& Jefferson down at Washington last 
Friday night, January 13tli. Wash- 
Jeff cannot boast of having put up a 
good game, and that being the case 
their victory was more result of dis- 
spirited play by the Plaid rather than 
good play by themselves.
For Carnegie Newman was by far 
the best, with the Conn brothers 
showing up best for Wash-Jeff. Prac­
tically the entire scoring was done 
by these three men for both schools. 
Sawyer was missed veiy much by 
Carnegie Tech.
The men played as if they were 
tired, which is the whole story of the 
defeat. ,
The lineup:
Dosey-Godden.. ,F.
Gibson-Anderson F.
Bell..’..................C.
Newman...............G.
Potter-Allen___G.
Field Goals — Dosey, Potter. NeW- 
man 3, Walker 3, C. Conn 4, K. Conn 
3. Foul Goals—5 out of 11 for Dosey. 
Iff out of 20 for C. Conn. Referee— 
Bolster. ,
Walker-Eaten
........C. Conn
..............Lyle
........K. Conn
....... .Sanders
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
Grove City 3G, Waynesburg 25.
Grove City 29, W. Va. U. 33.
W. Va.. Wes. 29, Morris (Harvey 19.
Lafayette 37, Duquesne 30.
Allegheny 57, Alfred 21.
Professor "N. E. Bode:” (Wednes­
day morning, coming into any class) 
—One, two, three, four, five, six 
seven, eight, nine, ten—Ten Tartans 
in the room. All present.
Guess The Tartan must be a pret­
ty popular paper after all!
DO~YOU KNOW
The quantity of copper wire in an 
elevator motor and controller?
It is interesting to know the amount 
of wire in- the motors and controllers 
of two of the largest installations in 
New York City—The Singer Building 
and the Hudson Terminal Buildings.
The former installation consists of 
fifteen Otis Gearless Traction Eleva­
tors. The total* length of wire in the 
motors and controllers, not including 
any of the hatchway wiring, is 456 
miles, or about fourteen tons of cop­
per wire.
The latter installation consists of 
thirty-nine Otis Gearless Traction Ele­
vators and the total length of wire 
in the motors and controllers, not in­
cluding any hatchway wiring, is 1,118 
miles, or about thirty-six tons of cop­
per wire.
In other words, the wire in the mo­
tors and controllers of these two 
equipments, if in one continuous 
leiigth, would reach from New York 
City to Chicago and almost back 
again.
DEBATING CLUB FORMED AT
OAKLAND COMMUNITY HOUSE
In connection with the Oakland 
Community House the students have 
organized what is known as the Oak­
land Senate, a debating club for both 
men and women, in which the leading 
questions of the day will be discussed. 
At the last meeting the debate was on 
the “Open Door Policy in China,” and 
representatives of the Pittsburgh Chi­
nese Club were present. Next Friday 
evening the question will be "Resolv­
ed, That the United States should 
recognize the Soviet de facto govern' 
ment in Russia.” Three senators will 
appear on each side of this question, 
and then an opportunity will be given 
for discussion by the entire body. 
Visitors are welcome, also new mem­
bers up to the membership limit. A 
good time is assured. Meeting begins 
in the Community House at eight 
o’clock Friday evening, January 20th. 
All student's who are interested in de­
bate or in discussion of this subject 
are invited to attend.
New Scholastic
Coaching Plan
This plan is based upon the belief 
that the average'student who enters 
C. I. T. comes to gain an education 
aJlong technical lines, and further that 
when he tries for the "team” in some 
branch of intercollegiate activity, he 
does so because he likes the sport 
and has the desire to do something 
to add to the prestige of his alma 
mater.
It is recognized that participation 
in inter-collegiate sport requires a 
great deal of a student’s time, conse­
quently he has less time at his dis­
posal than other students in which to 
study and prepare his lessons.
The following plan is devised on 
the theory that it is easier for the 
student to ke£p up in his studies if he 
is looked after right from .the begin­
ning of the college year, rather than 
after he has fallen behind; with thtis 
assumption as a basis'we must have, 
first, co-operation on the part of fac­
ulty and students; second, some 
agency which willl attend to the ac­
tual coaching of the team men need­
ing aid; third, some device or ar­
rangement whereby the coaching 
group may be promptly notified when 
an individual is in need of attention.
At the beginning of the season of 
any sport the graduate manager shall 
furnishi the director of each college 
(concerned) witb a list of the men 
from his college who are on the 
squad.
The director may follow either of 
two plans: First, he may appoint one 
member of the faculty to act as scho­
lastic adviser for this whole group of 
students, or, ho may appoint his of­
fice assistant as scholastic adviser 
for the Freshmen of the group, find in 
the case of upper classmen consult 
with the head of each department 
concerned so that the department 
head will assign a member of his 
staff to act as scholastic adviser for 
the members of the squad who are 
registered in his department.
These various scholastic advisers 
by either plan will through various 
agencies keep track of the work of 
this group of students and just as 
soon as a student shows signs of 
needing help his adviser shall at 
once notify the coaching group to as­
sign some one to take care of this 
student.
It is suggested that the actual 
coaching work be handled by a com­
mittee of students in each college. 
The president of the Student Council 
being authorized to appoint the chair­
man of this committee.
Upon notification of appointment 
the chairman shall promptly form the 
committee from volunteer members 
of the Senior class. The size of the 
committee to be dependent upon the 
number of students needing aid.
In practice, when the chairman of 
the coaching committee receives the 
notice blank, he shalll assign a mem­
ber to the duty of coaching, this mem­
ber to be chosen on the basis of qual­
ification, natural aptitude and place 
of residence.
It must be borne in mind that 
about all a coach should do is to sug­
gest and give general explanations, 
but UNDER NO CONSIDERATION, 
is he to do the work for the student. 
It is very possible that in a number, 
of cases all the help needed will be* 
for the coach to get after the student 
and in a tactful way oblige him to 
put in his study periods conscienti­
ously. It is also suggested that the 
coach may be able to handle the stu­
dent to better advantage if he will 
consult with the student’s instructor 
where necessary.
It is desirable that the scholastic 
adviser shall report to the graduate 
•manager (as frequently as may be 
necessary), so that he may be con­
stantly in touch with the coaching 
work.
Some of the advantages o’f the 
above plan are: Team material may 
be kept together continuously for a 
period of years permitting a certain 
continuity in the instruction of the 
sport coach, the, maintenance of a 
good scholarship standard among the 
men on athletic teams, the possibil­
ity of weakening the team at a crit- 
cai period owing to scholastic defici­
encies is largely removed, if the new­
comers in college know of the sys­
tem it is probable that more of them 
would try for the various teams; as 
many of them keep away for fear 
of getting behind in their studies.
In general, any plan which in a le­
gitimate manner helps to keep up the 
scholastic standard of the student 
body is of advantage to the students 
and to the institute.
A Suggested Custom.
The following proposal is suggest­
ed under the belief that it may be 
found valuable as an aid in improv­
ing the morale of the student body, in 
developing a fine tradition and inci­
dentally in helping men who give 
time to athletics also to maintain 
scholarship of a high standard.
It is suggested that we attempt, to 
interest the undergraduates in the fol­
lowing plan, that, beginning with the 
Freshman students and continuing 
through later years, the custom be es­
tablished of a section of students as­
suming certain responsibility for any 
member or members of this" section 
who shall make the "varsity squad” 
of an athletic team.
To ilustrate: Section C of tho 
Freshman class is represented by one 
man on the football squad, the mem­
bers of this section shall assume that 
it is their duty and their privilege to 
do all in their power to see that their 
representative shall be encouraged to 
keep up in h:is scholastic work and
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
A STEP FORWARD
Carnegie Tech has taken another step forward in the athletic world. This 
step came in the adoption of the Migratory Rule by the Athletic Council, to 
go into effect this coming fall.
This is a most important rule for the advancement of Carneglo Tech 
athletics in the athletic world. In other words, it is necessary that Carnegie 
Tech put into force the same rules governing her athletics that, other col­
leges throughout the country have, before her teams can claim the rating that 
they deserve. Although Carnegie Tech may place a team on the field the 
equal of the best in the country, claims cannot be made for an equal rating 
with them unless her rules are the same as theirs. Therefore in placing the 
Migratory Rule in effect, one of these necessary steps is taken, leaving the 
only remaining one—The Freshman Rule—to be adopted.
In substance, the Migratory Rule states that a man who transfers—mi­
grates—from one school to another, entering as an upper-classman—other 
than a Freshman—will not be eligible for athletics until he has lived one 
year at that school transferred to. But, if that man enters as a Freshman, 
without the Freshman Rule being in effect, he will be eligible for athletic 
competition. The Freshman Rule states that no Freshman, no matter where 
he comes from, can represent the school on a varsity team.
The primary purpose of the Migratory Rule is to preveut one school going 
after an athlete who has made good in another college. Also to prevent an 
athlete transferring because he wishes to take advantage of ahother school’s 
athletic reputation. ,
Inter-Fraternity
Dorm Basket Ball
ATHLETIC COUNCIL HOLDS
REGULAR MONTHLY MEETING
Tlio Iuter-fraternlty Basket Ball 
League opened their season last 
week. All games will bo played ac-
Cording to schedule on tho Toch Doan Tanbell. Lnboon, Loo, Weber,
The Athletic Council held its regu­
lar monthly meeting at tho Chamber 
of Commerce at 1 p. m. Saturday, 
January 7th, 1922. Professor Leeds,
IT’S UP TO YOU, FELLOWS!
Examinations are drawing near. What are you going to do to them? 
Upon the manner in which you handle them depends whether or not you 
will represent Carnegie Tech during the coming semester. This column has 
written upon the importance of the athlete to the school, and it would be su­
perfluous to make a further treatment at the present time.
But, it is believed that a statement can bo made regarding eligibility 
rules. These rules will be stated as clearly as possible and in that way, put 
the question up. to each individual student.
Upon the outcome of these examinations beginning on January 30th is 
depended entirely your eligibility during the first half of this coming semes­
ter. If you make good now, you are eligible until the mid-terms; if you fail, 
you are compelled to wait until the mid-terms for another chance. Every 
man who is eligible at the present time can ruin his chance by failure to 
take these finals seriously. Any man who is not at tho present time eligible 
can make himself so by making good now.
To make good, one has to turn in less than seventy-one (71) doficioncy 
points. Of course this not making good in the truest senso of tho word, for 
the above requirement leaves must to be desired along the scholarship line. 
This Is only "making good” for athletic competition.
See where the glass back-boards In the Tech gym had a short life. 
AGAIN
Last week this column commented on a certain dance held In tho Union 
last Saturday, a week ago. Just as was desired, this article started quito a 
discussion. A letter was received on the subject, and in acknowledging same, 
it must be. admitted that it was right In certain phases, but at the same time, 
it is not believed that this column was wrong. This column is further glad 
that the letter was written, for it is only through such letters that a real and 
true understanding can be acquired. So, thanks!
The Plaid Screen wishes to answer this discussion with a suggestion,, 
which is a result of what the writer has heard Is being done in other schools, 
and also In accordance with suggestions given by interested students.
Why not make one admission charge for both tho basket ball game and 
the dance afterward, and hold this dance on tho lloor ijpon which the game 
is played? This, is the policy generally practiced by other schools in tho 
country. Also why not make the total admission reasonable? This will 
tend to both increase the attendance at the game, and indirectly swell tho in­
come in actual cash received on the dance for the benefit of the C. I. T. A. A.
gym lloor There are some good 
teams out and there will bo so mo 
hotly contested games for the cup.
American League.
Kappa Sigma Rlvo 2G, Delta Mu 4.
Wood lawn Club 20, Scobell llall 11. 
Beta Tliota PI 23, XI ‘Sigma Upsl­
lon 7.
National League.
Sigma Nil 29, Boss Hall 5.
Delta Upsilon 39, Henderson Hall 4.
Iota Sigma Delta 30, (Square and 
Compass S.
Federal League.
Delta Epsilon Omega 24, Plil Epsi­
lon Pi 9.
Kappa Sigma 21, Tan Gamma Phi 
13.
Theta Tau IS, Delta Phi Delta 3.
Dr. Marks, Henderson, F. J. Lana- 
ban, President Ovorend, and Secre­
tary Haareh were prosont.
The meeting was caiiled to order by 
President Overend, minutes were 
read and accepted with ono correc­
tion; Mr. Liiiboon’s name having boon 
omitted by mistake from tho minutes 
as originally presented.
Discussion on tho elimination of
industrial teams from tho holiday 
basket ball trip was had. Tho mat­
ter was tabled until next .meeting.
Professor Leeds presented a revis­
ed scholastic coaching plan, which 
was accepted by. tlio Council, and 
sent to tho registrar with a request 
that it bo published in tlio next 
White Book to bo isuod.
The matter of resurfacing our pres­
ent field and t providing additional 
seating capacity was dlscused fully, 
with Mr. Lalboqn displaying for the 
benefit of tho members of tho Coun­
cil several plans for a stadium, in­
cluding tlio ono to bo built at. Co­
lumbia.
After a rather long and general 
discussion of tho above points it was 
moved and seconded that the meeting 
be adjourned.
GAMES NEXT WEEK 
Tuesday, January 24, 1922.
7:00 p. m.—Scobell Hall vs. Bota 
Theta PI.
7:20 p. m.—Henderson Hall vs.
Square and Compass.
S:30 p. m.—Kappa Sigma vs. Thota 
XI.
Wednesday, January 25, 1922. 
7:00 p. m.—Delta Ulpsllon vs, Iota 
Sigma Delta.
7:20 p. m.—Tau Gamma Phi vs. Phi 
Epsilon Pi.
S: 30 p. m.—Xi Sigma Upsllon vs. Sig­
ma Alpha Epsilon.
Thursday, January 26, 1922.
7:00 p. m.—Thota Xi vs. Thota Tau. 
7:20 p. m.—Alpha Pi vs. Woodlawn 
Club.
8:30 p. m.—Square and Comlpass vs. 
Zeta' Delta.
In tho Intor-fratornlty basket ball 
schedule In last week's Isslio tho 
fraternity listed as Pi Kappa Alpha 
should havo boon Zeta Dolta. Tills 
error was due to a misundoratanding 
by tho 'Selleditlo Committee.
OUR BIG SEMI-ANNUAL CLEAN-UP
"We’ve Fitted Feot For Fifty Years”
All Fall and Wlntor Boots for Men and Women Reduced in Price.
Values $S to $14.
Men's—$5.85 to $10.85. Wom'cn’s—$3.85 to $10.85.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Penn and Franlsstown East Liberty
g'ii)U!iiiiiii!iiigiiiiii]inliiiuiiiniiiinniii!imni[iU![iiiiiHiiiiiiiiRiiiiiii«iniiiiiiiiittiiitim!i;imiimiiiaui!iu!iii!!i.>iniiMiiiinoi;iiiiinii!iiiuin!Uiiiiiiiiiiliiii!iiiui>iiiiiiaiiiiu»iiiianiiini!iij
cANDERSON’S
HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
ir
ABOUT CAMPUS WEEK
The Graduate Manager’s office Is up against a hard proposition—not 
only hard but disconcerting. This comes in tho effort to chango tho Campus 
Week date from May 18th, 19th, 20th, to May 25th, 20th and 27th.
The trouble comes in the fact that all arrangements have been complotod 
for three good baseball games for Campus Week as originally sol., and if tho 
dates are changed, it will be necessary to go to tho great trouble of re­
arranging dates and games. This not only disarranges plans of Carnoglo 
Tech, but of the three schools Involved.
This column while appreciating the reasons for desiring a change in 
dates does not think them of sufficient importance to warrant the change 
when the above is considered. Perhaps tho committee doos not fully ap­
preciate the trouble and effort involved In the signing of contracts for base­
ball games, and will therefore treat' this comment lightly. If such is tho 
case, it is at least hoped that said committee will consult tho Graduato 
Manager's office before anything final is done, and make an honost offort to 
co-operate with them.
"KNOCK ’EM COLD, FELLOWS!”—meaning those exams.
self to got into a position where Ills 
scholastic standing or his physical 
condition may bo questioned.
Wo believe that, tihle average stu­
dent would consider it an honor to bo 
ono of the representatives of his 
class. Further, wo feel that a stu­
dent’s classmates are In a position to 
know very intimately whether tholr 
representative Is doing well in his 
studies. If at any time the section Is 
unable to help their representative 
maintain his scholastic standing, then 
they shall at once report the case to 
the scholastic adviser for “tholr col­
lege and the coaching work will be 
handled under regular procedure of 
the Scholastic Coaching Plan.
‘THE CORTOLA OF
GRANADA”
VARSITY BASKET BALL
SCHEDULE CORRECTION
W. & J. game whanged from Jan­
uary 27 to January 20 and West­
minister from February 4 to Feb­
ruary 2.
This is for tlio ladies as well as 
the gentlomon. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. Wo wlll call for it 
anti dolivor It. Our work Is tho 
best, our sorvlco quick, our prices 
roasonablo. Miss O’Leary, 3933 
Forbes street.
OContinued From Page One.) 
velvet' trousers, red sash, short 
jacket, wide skirts, • tight bodice and 
big comb—will not he allowed and
there wiif be no fantastic costumes. I distance away. With a game played 
The amusement will be different | In Motor Square Garden, this is fur-
Report of Lafayette Game 
Broadcasted by Radio-Phone
Several schools throughout the 
'Country sent out their football sctfrofi 
'by radio-tolephono last fall, iCarnoglo 
Tech being among the first to do 
this. Tho basket ball game of Sat­
urday night with Lafayette was tho 
first time, wo ibellevo, that a Colle­
giate basket ball game has boon 
sent ouit play by play. Through tho 
kindness of the Signal Corps of tho 
It. O. T. C., a radio-telophono sot 
was secured for tihe purpose and In­
stalled in Machinery Hall Tower.
In order to send out an Interesting 
account of the game an observer fa­
miliar with. the players was at tho 
edge of the floor and gave an account, 
of tihe progress’ of the, game during 
the playing time. To do this, it was 
necessary to have a means of trans­
mitting on a set in Machinery Hall, 
information given at a point some
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME 
FOOD
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
SEE US 
About our Special Offor 
Four Suits Pressed $1.50. 
AIKEN FORBES TAILORING 
COMPANY 
5817 FORBES STREET 
Phone Hazel 3601
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Caplt.il......................*200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Ovor - - $<1,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
RADIO
HEADQUARTERS
PRICES RIGHT
BEST OF SERVICE 
COMPLETE SETS 
$10 TO $105
Coneovt ovory evening.
General Lamp and 
Fixture Co.
0014 CENTER AVENUE 
EAST LIBERTY 
Hilantl 33B1
LA
from any attempted in past years. A 
one-act musical comedy 'in which 
there will be new chorus casts, scen­
ery and music, will be presented in 
the Little Theater. It will take, how­
ever, 5 scenes to show “The Princess 
Slip,” and if it “goes across” suc­
cessfully it is hoped that it may be 
enlarged and taken to the Schenley 
Theater later on.
Attendance at the ball will be lim­
ited to graduates, all students who 
have attended at Arts one year and 
all present students, including the 
Pitt part-time students if accom­
panied by an Art student.
At present the committee is busy 
getting a list of eligible costumes and 
working on the designing of decora­
tions, etc.
Y. W. C. A. HAS BUSY WEEK
ther complicated by having to send 
the messages over the lines of the 
Bell Telephone Company. By a 
combination of good apparatus and 
hard work, an arrangement was made 
whereby telephone conversation 
could he taken directly from the 
line and put on the radio set for 
transmitting. In reporting the La­
fayette game this worked beautifully, 
although some trouble was experi­
enced Irom telephone operators, who 
cut in on the line to see how the 
game was coming along.
With the rafpidly increasing popu­
larity of the small receiving sets for 
“listening In” on such broadcasting 
service as is- maintained by a local 
company, any such information as a 
local football or basket ball game is 
listened to by many thousands of 
people throughout a radius of sever-
pSJSJSJSJEISJSIEIBJEIEMiSMSlEfaiSlGM
Plione—Court 3656 »
Honus Wagner Sporting* Goods Company
438 WOOD STREET
Sporting Goods of Every Description.
Liberal Discounts to Students.
THOUSANDS of smokers have proved it—and now give the verdict 
to you—Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced — none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes—
None has the delicious
FLAVOR of the finestTurkish- 
None gives the ENJOY­
MENT of the finest Turkish— 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish— 
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD.
To enjoy 100% pure Turkish 
at its VERY BEST—to reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
— you have but to smoke 
MURAD—
Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself—/ ’
---------¦ al hundred miles. This is the very
(Continued From Page One.) best kind of advertising for Teqh, as 
girl. You will not only be interested, 1t serves to give many people who 
but you will gain a more international have no real connection with the 
outlook. Come. school, a very pepsonal interest in
Dean Scales told a delightful Hindu the welfare of our athletic teams.
story la'st week at the meeting—a sac-, —---------------------
riflce story. We learned again that ELECTRICALS HOLD SMOKER
to get we must give. For everything ---------
we get in this world, we must pay. I (Continued' From Pago One,)
The more we pay, the moro we suffer night was no exception. Tho strains 
—in many more times that amount we of a real Electrical Orchestra rover- 
are repaid—and are happy. berated through tho big Jab. K.DKA
------------------------furnished tho music while tho or-
Recently Colby College held an old- cheslra rested andi tho daily Woet- 
fashioned spelling bee in their chap- Inghouso musical program added to 
el. The building was packed to the the electrical atmosphere of tho oc- 
to keep himself in perfect physical i Umit with spectators, and partlci- casion.
condition. 1 pants. The first word to be missed Tho eats, always a big thing at a
Sedtion C must let their represen-'| was “cinch," while they ran on un- smoker topped off the good time and
tative or champion feel that they take til the words “syndicate” and scaria- it was near Saturday morning when
pride in him and his welfare and tina,” each of which finished one the crowd broke'up and wont home
that to represent them and to merit of the last two persons left stand- to dream of the next Electrical
this honor he must not allow him- ing. ( Smoker. \try \ r

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 18, 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
The Frances Parry 
Memorial Library
Room in Hut Set Aside—To 
Give Text Book Scholarships
About tho find- of February tlio 
JOO89D aouthoawt room of tlio Carnoglo 
Toch Library wlll bo oponod and 
known an tho Parry Ilooin. Mini» 
Parry’« own private library, donated 
by her family, will form tho nuolouij 
or fjlio collection of book«, and now 
book« pui'ChaHod from tho Memorial 
Fund will bo added from tlrno lo time. 
It 1» not tho Intention of tho com­
mittee to add reference book», but to 
fill tho room with good literature Bo 
that tho Btudo/it may go thero for 
relaxation rathon than Htudy. MIbh 
Pany’B Influence wan ,7 fltrongly folt 
by tho Ktudonl.il In tho forming of a 
tan to for good lltoraturo that her Mo- 
morlal Room nhould carry nemo Im­
press of till« fact with It,
Tlio Memorial Fund will also bo 
UBod to support froo text book 
BcholarfiliilpB, tho books to bo given to 
neody students for (heir uae wlillo In 
Bchool and then to bo turned back for 
other studonts.
Cl I ft« for the room aro still earnest­
ly .solicited. It Is hoped that tho 
plodgeB for money which aro out­
standing will be taken care of as 
soon as possible so that a good finan­
cial showing can be made at the time 
of the opening. All money should bo 
sent to Alan Bright, treasurer, at C. 
I. T. at the earliest possible date.
PROPOSED AMENDMENT
BY ALUMNI FEDERATION
Tho following amendment to Ar- 
tlclo 4 of tho By-law» of tho Alumni 
Federation Is proposed by tho Alumni 
Federation Board.
Scotlon 7.
Where man and wife aro both elig­
ible to mombor»hlp In tho Alumni 
Federation. "Joint Membership" 1» 
hereby provided. Tholr annual joint 
duo» shall be $3.00, fifty cont» for 
each to bo paid by the Federation 
Treasurer to tho respective 'associa­
tions of which they aro members, 
delinquent "JOINT MEMBERS" 
may bo roln»tatod by each paying 
throe-fourth» of tho regular delin­
quent rate, one-fourth of tho amount 
paid by each to go to tho proper an- 
soclatlon.
"Joint Membership" wlll apply only 
where payment 1» mado jointly. In 
otlior cases regular rates as sot forth 
In tho other sections of Article 4 aro 
applicable-
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRAI}Y
r.ttmmmmtmtmtimiiimimmtmmm
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcaponJcncc. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
®lj? lututrsiiij of (Eljhagn(
30thCHICAGO. ILLINOIS Y„ar
CLAN NEWS
NOTICE
CLAN MEETING DATES
Harrloburg Clan.
Luncheon» aro held every Friday 
at tho Ponn-d.-IarrJa Hotel,. All visit­
ing Teohltoa aro cordially Invited to 
attend.
New York Clan.
The annual Now York Clan meet­
ing will bo held In the Green Room 
of the MacAlplu Hotel Saturday, Feb­
ruary .25, Tho Now York Clan Is 
preparing for tho best annual meet­
ing that they havo ever 'held and it 
1s their desire to interest all neigh­
boring Clans to have a» many repre­
sentatives thero a» possible. Vari­
ous subject» will bo discussed at that 
time and there wllll also be a social 
program arranged.
Pittsburgh Clan.
Tho next meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Clan wlll be hold during tihe latter 
part of January In tho Assembly 
Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel. Defin­
ite date will foe announced later.
Washington Clan.
The next meeting of the Washing­
ton Clan will be held at the home of 
Carl Zobel, 701 Rock 'Creek, Church 
road.
Youngstown Clan.
The regular monthly meetings will 
be hold the third Monday of each 
month at 7:30 p. m., at the Y. M. 
C. A.
ALUMNI SECURE TICKETS
FOR JUNIOR PROM
Tho preliminary tickets for Junior 
Prom are now on sale and may be 
secured from any of the committee 
or through the mail from H. A. 
Bowman, 4921 Forbes street.
Alumni! Mark tho date on your 
calendar, February 3, and come to 
tho Junior Prom.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN ELECTS
OFFICERS FOR NEW YEAR
On Monday, January 9, the Youngs­
town Clan hold a very] Interesting 
mooting at tho Y. M. C, A., at which 
tlrno the following officers were 
elected:
President—Fred Beede, I., '19, 1324 
Hillman street.
Vice President—N. L, Jackson, S., 
'17, 20G Warren avenue.
Secretary-Treamirer—W. S. Scott, 
S., '14, 03 East Earl avenue.
Two Years Board of Control—F. 
Round, D., 2214 Ohio avennue.
One year Board of Control—J. C. 
Siogel, S., '13, 1354 Elm street.
The constitution was amended to 
read that the regular meeting date 
should 'be the third Monday of each 
month. It was voted to have a mem­
ber of the faculty come to Youngs­
town to talk to the Clan at the next 
regular meeting, Monday, February 
20. Mr. 'S'cott, the secretary, report­
ed that he had gotten In touch with 
Mr. Marceaue of Now Castle, who 
saAv twelve of Tech Alumni and stated 
that they would be glad to attend 
the next meeting of the Youngtstown 
Clan. After each business meeting 
an informal get-together is held. The 
Clan reports much interest in Tech 
affairs. With the new organization 
they are . in a position to help out 
the General Alumni Association.
The Alumni Federation Board will 
hold it» regular monthly meeting in 
the Alumni Office at 7:30 p. m., 
Monday, January 23, 1922.
Washington
Conference
*¦«
ONE BRAND- ONE QUAUTy-One Size Package
All our skill, facilities, and lifelong knowledge of 
the finest tobaccos are concentrated on this one 
cigarette—CAMEL.
Into this ONE BRAND, we put the utmost qual­
ity. Nothing is too good for Camels. They are as 
good as it’s possible to make a cigarette.
Camel QUALITY is always maintained at the 
same high, exclusive standard. You can always 
depend on the same mellow-mild refreshing smooth­
ness—the taste and rich flavor of choicest tobaccos 
—and entire freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
And remember this! Camels come in one size 
package only—20 cigarettes—just the right size to 
make the greatest saving in production and packing.
This saving goes straight into Camel Quality. That’s * 
¡one reason why you can get Camel Quality at so 
moderate a price.
Here’s another. We pnt no useless frills on the 
Camel package. No “extra wrappers!” Nothing 
just for show!
Such things do not improve the smoke any more 
than premiums or coupons. And their added cost 
must go onto the price or come out of the quality.
One thing—and one only—is responsible for 
Camels great and growing popularity—
That is CAMEL QUALITY.Camel
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.
Third Article
By William Hard 
I The most notable circumstance 
albout tho Washington Conference 
this week has been the transfer of 
interest away from the Washington 
Conference to the Conference at 
Cannes. At Cannes the Supreme 
Council of the Prime Ministers of the 
Allies has been working out a plan 
for safe-guarding France against a 
renewal of German aggression, while 
at the same time insuring to Ger­
many and to all Central Europe, an 
opportunity for financial and general 
economic recovery. At Washington, 
meanwhile, the negotiations continu­
ed between tho Chinese and the Jap­
anese regarding tho terms on which 
tho few surviving members of Jap­
anese influence in Shantung could be 
extinguished. The Chinese have tri­
umphed distinctly over the Japanese 
in tlio Shantung affair, without over 
spending the life of one Chinese sol- 
dlor on it. They, little by little, from 
1915 to date,' have built up such a 
propagandist 'back fire throughout 
the world against Japanese posses­
sion and 'Japanese use of the rights 
formerly belonging to Germany in 
Shantung, that now wo see the Japan­
ese hoping dosporately that they will 
bo .at least able to retain over tho 
railway in Shantung, bliio mere finan­
cial superiority rights which British 
foreigners exorcise over sevoral rail­
ways in otlior parts of China. The 
Chinese victory in Shantung is really 
vlrtuadly complete; Besides Shantung 
ono other subject lias ongagod tlio 
attention of tho Washington Conl’or- 
onco. The naval and other oxports 
havo boon drafting tho details of tho 
flvo-powor treaty limiting tihe naval 
armaments of Britain, the United 
States, Japan, Franco and Italy. It; is 
foarod Chat certain of those details 
cannot be satisfactorily set down 
until in Franco there is a ministry 
formed to succeed the ministry of M. 
Bt'iand, and to issue detailed instruc­
tions to tlio FrOncli delegation in 
Washington^ on disputed and unset­
tled points. If M. OBriand should suc­
ceed himself and should himself be­
come the head of a new solidified 
ministry; the instructions from Paris 
to the French delegation at Washing­
ton might be resumed promptly, but 
they also might contain certain 
changes in matters regarded as al- 
roady fixed The accord between M. 
Briand and Mr. Lloyd George, for a 
harmony between French interests 
and British interests in Europe might 
lead France to make concessions in 
the matter of submarines, and to ac­
cept a lower limit on French subma­
rine power than has hitherto been 
thought possible. French policy re­
garding submarines is based really 
on the possibility of a break between 
France and Britain. If that possibil­
ity of a break is succeeded by the 
certainty of a sort of entente, then 
the French might be able to think 
of abating their submarine prospec­
tive and potential power. Thus by a 
great irony, a stroke of old-fashioned 
diplomacy—a defensive entente be- 
twoen France and Britain—may pro­
mote the new-fashioned limiting of 
armament at Washington, Cannes, be­
sides boing a rival to Washington, 
may in fact bo an assistant to it.
NOTICE OF LITTLE *
THEATER PLAY *
There aro a limited number 
of tickets still available for tho •!* 
Alumni of Tech, for tho perform-
aiice of three : ono-act plays.
•> "The Death of TIntaglles." "The *:• 
*•* Prince that was a riper.” and 
•I* "The Unrecorded Tale,” which * 
•!- will be presented the evening of *:•
* Saturday ,1 unwary 21. Any alum- *
* ui who wish to attend this per- * 
*:• romance shou’d send a self-ad- *
- dressed envelop^ to the Secre- * 
tu y’s Office immediately with a * 
'•••'nnesi for the ¡desired number * 
nf tickets. I .
* I,
FACULTY PERSONALS
President and Mrs. I-Iamerschlag 
will Bail on the George Washington, 
from New York, on the seventeenth. 
They1 expect to go through Paris di­
rect to the Mediterranean, arriving 
at Cassa-Blanca about February 1. 
They will take the North African 
route, through Algiers and Tunis. 
They have made no plans beyond 
that point.
In tho absence of President and 
Mrs. I-Iamerschlag, Miss Katherine 
Ream will handle all personal cor­
respondence, and wlll know where to 
forward any communication.
Dr. Baker will be acting president 
during the absence of Dr. I-Iamer- 
schlag.
Prof. R. Z. Virgin has been granted 
a month’s leave of absence to make 
certain iechnical investigations 
abroad for* the Carnegie Steel Com­
pany. J. O. Durkee of Pittsburgh!, at 
one time editor of the Coal Industry, 
will take hi» classes.
The following members of the In­
stitute staff were marriel during De­
cember: Miss Jean Kirk to James
F. McKillips, of Pittsburgh, at the 
First Presbyterian Church, Pitts­
burgh, December 16.
Miss Gail Sellers, M. M., ’17, aftd 
Professor Charles R. Fettke, of the 
College of Engineering, at Dunns 
Station, Pa., December 27.
Professor Frederic C. Clayton, Col­
lege of Fine Arts, to Miss Mildred 
Louise Pew, of Pittsburgh, at St. 
Mary’s P. E. Church, Pittsburgh, De­
cember 28.
Walter L. Remlck, College of En­
gineering, to Miss Flornce Erminie 
Ayer, at Portsmouth, Va., December
29.
Miss Elizabeth Berry, executive 
secretary to Ara J. Miller, Industries, 
17, at the Little Church Around1 the 
Corner, New York City, December
30.
The first issue for the year of tlie 
Carnegie Technical Journal contains 
article on “The New Division of 
Co-operative Research’’ by Director 
Bingham and on "The Technical Man 
and the New Army Policy” by. Major 
Bragdon of the R. O. T. C. Mr. P. 
S.. Donnell of the College of Engi­
neering, is Faculty Associate.
S. E. Dibble of the College of In­
dustries,, lias received the nominatdon 
for second vice president of tlie 
American Society of Heating and 
Ventilating Engineers. The election 
will take place this month.
The Executive Board gave a fare­
well dinner to Dr. Hamer sell lag at 
the University Club Monday. evening, 
January 9.
Leonard p. Fox, director of re­
search of the State Chamber of Com­
merce, formerly assistant professor 
of Political Science of the Carnegie 
Institute oiC Technology, lias 'been ap­
pointed hy Governor Sproul as a 
member of a commission of seven to 
inquire into a (pilan for the reorgan­
ization of the (State government. Mr. 
Fox has been making for the State 
'Chamber of Commerce a study ¦ of 
tho budget syBtem in other states 
with rnferemco to their application 
in Pennsylvania.
R. B. Lockwood, Science, '11, rep­
resented the Institute at the inaugu­
ration of Guy Potter Benton as 
President of the University of the 
,Philippines on December 1G, 1921. Mr. 
Lockwood is engaged in business in 
Manila.
Organize Carnegie 
Clan at Cincinnati
Alumni of Cincinnati and Vi­
cinity Hold Meeting
,A get-together meeting of alumni, 
former students and friends of Car­
negie Tech was held Thursday, Jan­
uary 5, 1922. at 8 o’clock in the Li­
brary of the Social Agencies Build­
ing, 25 East Ninth street. The pur­
pose of the meeting was to organize 
a Carnegie Clan in Cincinnati and 
vicinity. Those present were:
Elizabeth Gitt, 21; Amy Jonap, '13; 
Phyllis McMarlin, ’19; Agnes Russell, 
’21; G. C. Smith, '15; Marion Pitched 
Weihl. '16, Mary Zarobsky, ’21.
Winton Kelly, former student; Eliz­
abeth Porter, Who received her M. A. 
degree at M. M. C. C. in '18, and Mr. 
and Mrs. Conrad, former instructors 
at M. M. C., were also present.
Tlie meeting was called to order 
by Mary Zarobsky, who presided until 
the election of Mr. G. C. Smith as 
chairman.
Nominations for secretary were 
then in order, res'ulting in the elec­
tion of Mary Zarobsky.
A discussion as to whether a vice 
president should be elected as sug­
gested in the "Proposed By-Laws” of 
the Alumni Federation resulted in a 
motion that the members proceed 
with nominations for vice president. 
Motion carried.
Mr. Kelly was elected vice presi­
dent.
Miss Russell 'and Marion Pitchel 
Weihl were then elected as the two 
members of the executive committee.
A suitable time and place for meet­
ings of the Clan were discussed. On 
motion, the members decided to meet 
the first Thursday of each month. No 
definite place for meetings was de­
cided upon, hut it was suggested that 
the Clan' meet at the various homes 
of the members; that the first part 
of the meeting be devoted to busi­
ness and the remainder to social en­
joyment. Mr. Smith invited the mem­
bers to his home for the next meet­
ing, February 2, 1922. The inyitatlon 
was accepted with thanks.
The secretary was instructed to 
write up the proceedings of the meet­
ing and send it to the Cincinnati pa­
pers so that Carnegie Tech Alumni 
and students, not present at the 
meeting might learn of the existence 
of a Cincinnati Clan. „
On motion the executive committee 
was authorized to go over the "Pro­
posed By-Laws” and revise them 
where deemed advisable.
It was also suggested that the ex­
ecutive committee should arrange to 
meet before the monthly meetings 
and decide upon suggestions and 
questions for discussion at the Clan 
meetings. ,
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
| Cor. Craig and Forbes 
| Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFIELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service............8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c 1 o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
DO IT RIGHT!
With the Goodyear Welt System
TECH SHOE REPAIRING
FORBES (Near Craig)
Fifilfî Avenue Boot Shop
. near 48îh Street, Mew York, 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Exhibit Shops 
In all the larger cltieB.
Colonel. Fairley, superintendent of 
Buildings and Grounds, has been 
elected a member of the American 
Institute of Electrical Engineers.
VALENTINE DANCE
Plans for this dance are reported 
well under way by Marion Keefer, 
Chairman of the Dance 'Committee. 
Dinner will be served in the cafe-
MARGARET MORRISON
ALUMNAE NEWS
The Executive Board held Its reg> 
lar monthly meeting at the home of 
Mrs. Gaston on the evening of Jan­
uary 12. We had a “full house” in 
more than one sense. Plans for the 
coming dance were discussed, also 
the possibility of joining forces with 
the students to give some kind of 
party during Campus Week. The 
resignation of Eliza Dickey Blair, I 
Chairman of the Ways and Means 
Committee, was accepted and Mary| 
Craighead Brinton was appointed to 
fill out the unexpired term. A pro­
posed amendment to the Federation 
Constitution was voted on. This 
amendment will be published in the 
next Alumnus. The February meet­
ing of the hoard 'will be held at the 
home of Mary Cummings Keaney, 
5460 Broad street.
-------X--------------
LOST
REGULATING YQUR 
EXPENSES
Every big corporation so 
regulates its operating ex­
penses as to give a profit.
The same regulation ap­
plied to your income will 
leave a surplus each month 
which we shall be glad to in­
vest for you, be It small or 
big.
Mellon National BankPittsb^gidh. Pa.
The lower part of gold fountain 
pen, Monday, January 9. Please re­
turn tio Dean Tarbell’s office.
dance, but reservations* MUST be
made before February 10. You will 
receive notice by mail later and it 
is earnestly hoped that you will re- 
teria preceding the dance, the exact '-ply promptly as we simply must 
time to be announced later. Dancing know how many to prepare for. 
will be from eight-thirty to eleven-j There will be good eats and good
thirty. It is ^permissible to bring music and we anticipate a large
friends to both the dinner and the turnout.
DIRECTORY OF TECH CLANS
De]UXe,
Student Note Books
—give you better value 
for your money.
—they work better and 
wear longer.
—all sizes and rulings. 
—ask to see them.
m
After Euery Meal'’
VKRON—Secretaiy, A. C. Sprague, care Chelsea Club, 829 East 
BOSTON—Secretary, Mary Wight, Harris Hall, Deaconess Road.
BUFFALO-r-Secretary, W. H. Rieger, Sizer Forge Company.
TIICAGO—Secretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wriglitwood Avenue.
CINCINNATI—Secretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
'LEVELAND—Secretary, Merten G. Kingsley, 17817 Cannon Ave.
)ETR01T—Secretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co.
ERIE—Secretary, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street.
HARRISBURG—Secretary, Ritchie Lawrie, 206 Market Street.
IARTFORD—Secretary, L. M. Bloch, 304 Garden Avenue.
1UNT1NGTON—Secretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
'OlINSTOWN—Secretary, C. L. Carroll, 220 VineoStreet.
\rONONGAITELA VALLEY—Secretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing- 
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
\7EW YORK—Secretary, J. A. Cameron, 431 Riverside Drive.
NORFOLK—Acting Secretary, W. H. Sands, Bank of Commerce I 
Building.
’ MIL AD ELPIIIA—President, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building.
’ITTSBU.UGll—Secretary, j. W. Batman Carnegis Institute of 
Technology.
ST. LOUIS—Auting Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
\VASHING TON—Acting Secretary, Miss Kathryn Harris, 1505 La 
mont Street, N. W.
YQUNGSTOWX Secretary, W. S. Scott 65 East Earl Avenue. j
M. M. Clan Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street. —
THE C L A N.-...C O LIJ M N , EVERY, w R F, R 2AVC7GOM1 7PC A.n1CVOE1CE
/ i ( l i,
CENTS
DTbs Flavor Lasts!
>V ATCMI
