/&C O r-
U1IJVJ
?
r-JANURN YAThRhehN la gNstAlclUow dRhhTveJUtw dNAATocp-AR-Vol. Vool .bl &BJANUARY 23, &9&3l
WHoTE FRoARS SMOKER
Preparatibns fbr &9&3 Seasbn Discussed
JU.oOR PROM A..OU.CEME.T
The largest crowd that ever packed the 
Field House witnessed the opening basket 
ball game of the season last Saturday 
night. Penn State was the victor, but 
the losing fight put up by our boys never 
dampened the loyalty nor subdued the 
cheers of the rooters, fair and otherwise. 
And the beauty of M. M. C. S. and Pitts­
burgh formed a large part of the gathering. 
The bank of seats and all of the chairs 
were occupied by the owners of bewitch­
ing faces, while their escorts filled every 
available inch of standing room or sat on 
the floor in proper attitudes of subservi­
ence. The band, from its place in the 
balcony, sent forth stirring strains of mar­
tial music or of cheering “rag” during every 
lull in the main activities, and after the 
game supplied such melody as made every 
man who could obtain a partner go whirl­
ing over the floor in forgetfulness of the 
score.
The game itself, as the score of 34 to 14 
shows, was a contest of a tried veteran 
team with a five experiencing their first 
battle. What our boys lacked most was 
the team-work that comes only after sever­
al games. That they were never beaten 
in spirit was shown by their repeated 
rushes which the heavier State team broke 
up only by extending themselves to the 
limit. The game, while not excessively 
rough, was lively enough to satisfy the 
most critical spectator. Metheny and 
Captain Hartz clashed once, but nothing 
serious resulted. Hartz was punished a 
short time before for some roughness on 
Colvin. Binder was the star performer 
of the contest, scoring a total of seven 
goals from the floor. Two of his five made 
in the second half were from difficult
angles and drew sounds of applause from 
the Tech partisans.
Criswell, although outweighted by fifty 
pounds by his guard, played a brilliant 
game. He was aggressive in both offen­
sive and defensive work, and kept the 
speed up at the highest notch. Tumpane 
also played well, but experienced con­
siderable hard luck in shooting. Several 
times the ball went inside the basket only 
to pop out again. Heisel’s work at guard 
was good, and he succeeded in keeping 
his man very much out of the game.
Criswell scored the first two points on 
fouls in the first four minutes of play. 
Binder tied the score with a field goal two 
minutes later, and drew ahead on a foul 
soon after. The foul shooting on both 
sides was equally poor, each team scoring 
only eight points.
The line-up—
Carnegie Tech—&4 Penn State—34
Tumpane............ F................................Park
Criswell............... F.............................Binder
Colvin (Capt.).... C..............Hartz (Capt.)
Heisel................... G............................ ..Hay
Hines................... G...........................Walton
Substitutions — Metheny for Colvin, 
Williams for Heisel, Yahres for Tumpane, 
Craig for Park, Davis for Walton.
Field Goals—First half: Binder 2, Park
2, Hartz 3, Criswell 2; Second half: Bin­
der 5, Craig, Tumpane.
Foul Goals—First half: Criswell 5 out 
of 11, Binder 4 out of 8; Second half: 
Criswell 3 out of 9, Binder 4 out of 13, 
Colvin missed 2
Score —First half: C. I. T. 9, State 18; 
Second half: C. I. T. 5, State 16.
Referee—Dr. Flint, U. of P. Time­
keepers—Quinlan, Tech, andBevun, State.
THE THoSTLE
Great activity has been shown this 
past week in connection with the Thistle. 
An organized campaign of advertising has 
been instituted and the results prove the 
old saying “It pays to advertise.” The 
contracts for. engraving and photography 
have been let and from now on a definite 
program of events in connection with get­
ting photography and material for 'I he 
Thistle will be in force. From the interest 
shov.n by the Camera Club, the indica­
tions are that there will be a great number 
of good local Snapshots of every descrip­
tion and well as some of decidedly uni­
que characteristics. Advance reports in­
dicate a record breaking circulation this 
year and it is to be hoped that each man 
will realize his responsibility in helping 
the Board to realize their expectation.
Many new and unique ideas are in store 
for the purchnsers of The Thistle.
ot bnly takes bne bean; bne simblebn 
br bne cartwheel—in bther wbrds 
bne lbnely dbllar tb insure that ybu 
get ybur Thistlel Attend tb it nbwl
MUSoCAL CLUBS APPEAR AT 
HOMESTEAD
The “Musical Clubs” appeared in a 
concert at the Carnegie Library, Home­
stead last Monday night and acquitted 
themselves admirably before several hun­
dred people. Several prominent ladies 
acted as patronesses and after the concert 
a dance was given for the Musical Club 
men.
After the pronounced success of last 
year and the esprit de corps created, (as 
evidenced by the veteran turnout) a 
prosperous season is assured. A new play 
has been written especially for the club 
by an experienced author of amateur 
plays, formerly connected with a famous 
college organization. The libretto will be 
fully up to the high standard set by pre­
vious years and the possibility of retaining 
many of th£ old cast, as well as the ac­
quisition of new talent, makes that feature 
of the production a certain success. The 
dancing chorus will produce a number of 
this season's fancy steps. A certain lack 
of shorter men to take the part of women 
is evident and we strongly urge such men 
to turn out in large numbers. This is 
equally true of taller men. In fact all can 
be used, the chief requirements being en­
thusiasm and perseverance. The fine 
performance of the opening tryout shows 
that we have ample talent of a good order, 
but we wish to call out all who can come, 
for we can use the best that we can get. 
We need a large selection of a hundred or 
so. Good cast men are especially welcome, 
as all selections for parts will be upon a 
competitive basis. No stone will be left 
unturned to produce a perfectly homo­
geneous and well balanced cast. Singing 
will be at a premium in both cast and 
chorus work. The Glee chorus will be 
selected with care, for the introduction 
of good songs will be a specialty of the 
show. Practice notices will be posted in 
all the Schools, and those who have not 
yet turned out will be fully informed of 
the time of the tryout. Work of the pull­
ing together of the show starts immediately 
and rehearsals will be commenced as soon 
as cast and chorus can be chosen.
The rapid increase of interest in the 
club, the enthusiastic work we have got­
ten out of our members and new men, 
shows that the time is not far distant 
when the club will occupy a position in 
amateur stagecraft excelled by no similar 
organization.
A smoker was held at the Schenley on 
Friday, January 17. A large number 
turned out for the festivities. Several 
older men addressed the crowd, giving the 
neuveaus an idea of the progress and the 
prospects. One of the most welcome was 
our consistent and generous patron, Dean 
Connelly, who, as usual, rose gallantly 
to the occasion. An exhibition of fancy 
stepping was given by Harrison Town­
send, Jr., Premier Dansuese of the Mask 
and Wig, and was much appreciated by 
those present. We have.now fairly started 
on our career and we ask undergraduates 
to support us as heartily as before in this 
new and promising year.
The final arrangements for the Junior 
Prom are about completed and the com­
mittee have promised us a dance that will 
be a real dance, in fact, a dance that will 
be the last word in terpsichorean extrava­
gance—or words to that effect. It was 
feared for awhile that many of the upper 
classmen would be unable to attend for 
lack of the pocketbook noise after the 
projected inspection trips to New York and 
Niagara Falls, but we are pleased to an­
nounce that this fear has been entirely 
dissipated by the good tidings of great 
joy that the school is going to pay almost 
all of the expense of these trips—that 
is, all but about forty doll ars which is a 
mere bagatelle. Practically every man 
in the Junior class has assured the com­
mittee that he will attend the Junior Prom 
and as a large body of the Seniors and 
Alumni are expected to be present this 
year, the committee are making prepara­
tions for a larger crowd than usual. It 
has finally been decided to hold the Prom 
at the Schenley Hotel on the 28th of Febru­
ary. This date is somewhat later than was 
first intended but was ultimately chosen 
to accommodate the Design School men 
and furthermore it will be possible to hold 
the affair at the »Schenley on that evening. 
The committee are spending more money 
on the programs and music this year than 
has been customary and are going to keep 
the other items such as decorations, ap­
pointments, lunch, etc., up to the usual 
standard, expecting to make it up from 
the larger attendance. At a class meeting 
held last Wednesday, it was voted by the 
members of the Junior class not to take 
flowers, and the committee requests that 
Seniors and Alumni who expect to atttend 
co-operate with the Juniors in this re­
spect. Tickets for the Prom are now 
purchasable from the members of the 
committee and it is urged that any who 
can do so. purchase their tickets now as 
there are bills which the committee will 
have to meet before the dance is held.
CUP PRESE.TAToO.
Following the general lecture on Thurs­
day morning several members of the Oak­
land Board of Trade took the platform in
209 to present formally to the schools the 
silver cup awarded us for the excellency of 
our turnout in the Halloween parade last 
fall. President Scarborough of the Beard 
made the presentation speech and Connell 
of the SeniorClass accepted tor the Schools. 
The trophy is a beautiful silver cup, 
standing some 18 or 20 inches high and 
bearing the folio wing inscription: “To the 
Students of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology from the Merchants of Cak- 
iand in appreciation of their Good Will
1912.” »

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTA.
THE TARTA.
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
PoTTSBURGH, PAl, JA.l 23, &9&3l
BOARD OF EDITORS. 
Donald D. Mitchell, ’13.Editor-in-Chief 
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14.. Business Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13..........Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, '09..Alumni Editor 
Albert E. Ball, ’13.... Science Editor
A. H. Good, ’14.............Design Editor
Guy Elliott, ’13.... Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14...................
.........................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, ’15. Exchange Editor
Charles E. Gilson, ’14.....................
...................Assistant News Editor
W. I. Wilson, ’16.............................
Assistant to the Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, ‘15................................
........Assistant to the Business Editor
Last Wednesday morning the Cup pre­
sented by the merchants of Oakland was 
formally given over. In another column 
will be found a description of the brief 
ceremony. The handsome cup will now 
find its place among the other trophies 
of Tech and will serve as a lasting remind­
er of the beginning of that spirit of co­
operation and appreciation between the 
students of this institution and their good 
friends, the merchants of Oakland.
The giving of the cup brings us to an­
other point. We have, scattered around 
in various quarters of the buildings, many 
trophies of various kinds. Would it not 
be a good plan to have these trophies 
collect 'd and put together in one place 
where they would make a decent showing? 
We understand that the Student Activi­
ties fund would subscribe money for the 
purchase of cases in which to put these 
various articles. If we had our student 
building about which We have heard so 
much, we would have the ideal place to 
put the cases. Since we have not, the 
next best place, it would seem to us is the 
student room in the Science Building. 
That room has more nearly reached the 
ideal back of a student building than any 
other room in the institution—unless it 
be the faculty Club Room. It really is 
too bad to allow these trophies to be mis­
placed and since the Student Activities 
fund has offered to assist in the collecting 
of them, The Tartan urges that their offer 
be accepted and a temporary place be 
provided for our trophies.
A SECO.D SO.G COMPEToToO.
the Carnegie Institute of Technology. The 
song should be cheerful and inspiring in 
character.
Any member of the Alumni Association, 
member of faculty, student, or Pittsburgh 
friendJof the Schools may compete, in 
collaboration with others if desired. 
feS-The Institution reserves the right to 
use any or all songs submitted, by publi­
cation of the author’s name. Songs will 
not be judged if received after March 31st, 
1913, and should be sent sealed to Wm. P. 
Field, Secretary, Room 101, Applied In­
dustries Building. The manuscript and 
words should not disclose the name of the 
competitor, which should be submitted 
at the same time in a sealed blank enve­
lope separately.
Members of the jury are :—
C. Russell Hewlett 
R. J. McDowell 
Chas. Heinroth 
Arthur Burgoyne
The jury reserves the right to withhold 
all prizes in case a sufficiently high stand­
ard is not maintained.
BASKET BALL LEAGUE
January 20th
DoRECTORYl
RESULT OF THE SO.Ç COM­
PEToToO.
The first song competition closed on 
January 1st, 1913. A second prize of 
$15.00 was awarded to Messrs. Edwin 
Schwingenstein of 5444 Forbes Street, 
who wrote the music, and George A. 
Robitzer a student in the Electrical course 
in the Industries School who wrote the 
words.
The Jury decided to withhold the first 
prize, as they felt that insufficient time 
had been allowed for a satisfactory com­
petition. They believed it best to hold 
another contest, to close March 31st, 
which affords an opportunity for many 
students to enter and for songs of a reason­
ably high standard to be submitted.
SECO.D SO.G CO.TEST
A first prize of fifty dollars,- a second 
prize of fifteen dollars and a third prize of 
ten dollars is offered for the best song, 
original words and music, appropriate to
• Won Lost Percent.
Xi Sig....................... 6 0 1.000
Sig Rho.................... 6 1 .857
Sig Tau.................... 4 1 .800
Zeta Lam................ 4 1 .800
Beta Theta............. 3 2 .600
C. E. vSoc................. 3 3 .500
Theta Zi.................. 3 3 .500
Mech Club............ 2 3 .400
Mho Club............... 1 3 .250
Fulcrum................... 1 4 .200
Mid Mach............... 0 5 .000
T. A. C.................... 0 6 .000
The following games, which were post­
poned, because of the holiday recess, have 
been scheduled for the following dates:— 
January 31st—-
C. E. Soc. vs. Mid Mach..........5:00-5:20
Zeta Lam vs. Fulcrum C..........5:20-5:40
Sig Rho vs. Sig Tau..................5:40-6:00
February 3rd—
T. A. C. vs Mid Mach.............5:00-5:20
Xi Sig vs; Beta Theta..............5:20-5:40
Theta Xi vs. Mech. Club........5:40-6:00
February 4th—
Beta Theta vs. C. E. Soc.........5:00-5:20
Fulcrum C. vs. Mech Club..........5:20-5:40
B-2 Industries vs. Zeta Lam....5:40-6:00 
February 5th—
Sig Tau vs. Xi Sig....................5:00-5:20
Because of forfeiture of three games by 
non-appearance, the Mho Club team has 
been dropped from the league and the 
B-2 Industries team substituted.
CLASS HoSTORoA.S—.OToCE
Get ybur class histbries in such 
shape that they can be turned in tb 
the Thistle Bbard at bncel Dbn’t 
put this bffl ot is up tb ybu tb have 
ybur material in if ybu want it pub­
lished;
BASKET BALL
The decision of the jury in the first 
song contest was in many ways an ad­
mirable one. They felt that insufficient 
time had been allowed to afford the com­
petitors a chance to do their best, then 
too, it was believed that many more would 
have entered the contest if a longer time 
had been given. So as elsewhere an­
nounced in this issue, the jury made an 
award only of the second prize and de­
cided to renew the offer of three prizes of 
respectively fifty, fifteen, and ten dollars 
for a second contest. The date set for 
closing is March 31st, which will afford 
plenty of time for those who wish to enter 
the contest. It is hoped by the members 
of the jury that many excellent songs 
will be submitted by that time, and that a 
particularly high standard may be attain­
ed in these songs. The Tartan trusts 
that the student body will take a lively 
interest in this matter. The rules permit 
of collaboration between club and society 
members, and also among musical organi­
zations within and without the Institution. 
From all these facts we feel that most 
excellent songs could and should be sub­
mitted, and we hope that among them 
may be such especially good ones as will 
be appropriate for incorporation with the 
other well beloved songs of this Institution.
“Patrbnize bur Advertisersl”
Before a large and enthusiastic audience, 
the Carnegie Tech Plaids defeated the 
Canivan Club Juniors by the score of 
23 to 11. Stepadus and Fletcher starred 
for the Plaids while the Larkin brothers 
played a good game for the Juniors.
McNamara was forced from the game in 
the early part of the second half by in juries. 
Plaids Junibrs
Walberg............... F ....................D. Larkin
Fletcher............... F ....................B. Larkin
Stepadus.............. C ..............................Rice
McNamara......... G ............................Duffy
Colbert................ G .........................Kearns
Field Goals—Fletcher 3, Stepadus 2, 
Colbert 2, McNamara 1, Walberg 1, D. 
Larkin 2, B. Larkin 2, Rice 1.
Foul Gouls—Stepadus—5 out of 6.
Duffy—1 out of 5. 
Substitutes—Roy for McNamara.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth pressrs the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers­
piration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
ATHLEToCSl
Fbbtball—El L. Clair, Capt.
F. H. Haaren, Mgr.
5437 Avlesboro Ave. 
Baseball— J. R. Gearhart, Capt.,
E. H. Grotefend, Mgr.,
5437 Aylesboro St. 
Basketball—
R. W. P. Colvin, Capt.
W. J. Corbett, Mgr.,
5141 Woodlawn Ave. 
Track— C. M. Crawford, Capt., 
Thor Engstrom, Mgr.,
237 N. Dithridge St 
Tennis Assbciatibn—
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Mgr.
5141 Woodlawn Ave. 
SE.oOR CLASSESl 
Science— C. M. Crawford, 
ondustries—Al E. Hamilton, 
Design— J. b. Hi/s, Jr.
Ml Ml Cl Sl—
Tri Senior, Margaret Eggleston, 
Senior, Laura Green, 
SOCoEToESl
Musical Clubs—
R. M. Crawford, Pres.
L. E. Griswold, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
White Friars— H. C. Franks, Presl 
Walter Jones, Jr., Mgr.,
309 Oakland Ave.
Seannachie—F. S. Crawford, Pres., 
Carnegie Band- Clete L. Boyle, Mgrll
9 Mawhinney Street.
Tl Al Cl—M. G. Kingsley, Pres.,
Tl Ml Cl—Guy Elliott, Mgr.
Tl Dl Cl— Eleanor Tener, Pres.
Civil Engineering Sbciety—
O. N. Hetle, Pres.
Fulcrum Club—
Thos. O. Carlisle, Pres.
Mhb Club— R. W. Freeland, Pres. 
Crucible Club—H. G. Texter, Pres.. 
Mechanical Club—J. E. Haines, Pres 
CLUBS A.D FRATER.oToESl 
Beta Theta Epsilbn-
5437 Ayle boro Ave. 
Schenley 2508.
Sigma Rhb—4619 Forbes St. 
Schenley 9271-J.
Sigma Tau— 5141 Woodlawn Avel 
Schenley 9373-J.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi—
237 Dithridge St., 
Schenley, 9143. 
Wbbdlawn Club—
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
_____________Schenley 9020_____
Xi Sigma Upsilbn—
311 McKee Place. 
Schenley 9253.
A dbllar wbn’t make ybu br break 
ybul Let lbbse bf bne fbr ybur Thistle 
receiptl
Zeta Lambda Epsilbn—
4513 Forbes St.
9052-JSchenley-_______
Alumni Ass’nl bf Applied Science and 
Design—
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room 204 A. & J. Bldg., 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Student Senates—
Design—Al H. Good, Pres. 
ondustries—Guy Elliott, Pres.
Athletic Bbard bf Cbntrbl—
Wm. L. Moo rehead, Pres.
Dan Kornblum, Secy.
514 Neville St.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTA.
The Shape bf Bbttbm 
.EW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBE.ER
Man With Quality StibeB
6227 Penn Avenue 
6222 Frankstown AvenueEast End
*......—¦....... !............................................................ ..............*
Current Events j
+————-------------------------—4*
Labbr
“Gov. Sulzer on Minimum Wage 
Boards”, “How a Minimum Wage Law 
has Worked”. Such a law has been in 
force in Australia since 1896 with very 
happy results. Outlook, January 11, p. 
52 and 53.
“The Garment Workers’ Strike”—Ibid, 
p. 54. Over 100,000 workers are involved 
in this struggle. This short article states 
all the causes leading to it in concise form.
“Government by Dynamite”—Ibid, p. 
62. A brief history of the dynamite 
conspiracy. The trial resulted in the con­
viction of thirty-eight out of forty ac­
cused men. “What labor organizations 
and most men who backing to them would 
shrink with horror from such actions as 
the convicted men have been found guilty 
of under the sworn verdict of a jury which 
has spent months in patiently considering 
the evidence.”
“End of the Dynamite Conspiracy”— 
Literary Digest, January 11, p. 57. Gives 
newspaper comment and very good half­
tone portraits of Judge Anderson and six 
of the most.prominent prisoners.
“The Workers’ only Hope: Direct Ac­
tion”—The Independent, January 9, 1913, 
p. 79. By Andre Tridon. A Discussion 
of the Methods used by Labor to bring 
Immediate Pressure to Bear on the Em­
ployer.
T ranspbrtatibn
“The Federal Hand on Express Busi­
ness”—The Independent, January 9, 1913, 
p. 95. By Franklin K. Lane. Shows 
need of greater regulation of the Express 
Companies by the government.
“The Greatest Railway Terminal in the 
World” Outlook, December 28, p. 901. By 
Edward Hungerford. A description of 
the New York Central Terminal in New 
York City. “The problem was both engi­
neering and architectural.”
“Railway Accidents”—Outlook, Janu­
ary 4, p. 4. Speed and equipment, the 
human factor.
“Solving the Motor Wagon Question”-—- 
Literary Digest, January 11, p. 82, by H. 
W. Perry, Secretary of the Commercial 
Vehicle Committee of the National Asso­
ciation of Automobile Manufacturers.
The Balkan Dispute
“Germany’s Balkan Defeat”—Literary 
Digest, January 11, p. 68. “A new empire 
has arrived in the Balkan Peninsula. It 
stops the route to German expansion in 
the East, and absolutely wipes out by 
taking its place, that old Turkey, once 
the friend, if we may not say the vassal, 
at any rate, the dependent, of Berlin. 
The roar of Servian and Bulgarian can­
non seems to have really checkmated 
all the Oriental machinations of Ger­
many.”
“How to Save Face”—Outlook, January
11, p. 55. Turkey’s “ingenious bluff.”
“The Balkan Woman’s Part in the 
Balkan War”—Hid, p. 56.
“Americanizing Turkey”— Youth's Com­
panion, January 2, p. 3. By the late Wil­
liam T. Stead.
“America in the Balkans”—Ibid, p. 6.
“The Map of Europe”—Outlook, Janu­
ary 4, p. 8.
“A Bulgarian Election”—Independent, 
January 2, p. 31. Presents a different
view-of Bulgaria from the one we get from 
the reading of their military exploits.
Literature and the Drama
“Where to Begin a Play”—The Book­
man, for January 1913, contains an inter­
esting article by Clayton Hamilton. In 
this article the writer shows that the author 
of a play must choose the right moment at 
which to begin his play. Any story of 
human life that is worth telling in a novel 
or a play must concern itself with a pro­
cession of events that in reality is limitless, 
but the novelist and dramatist laboring 
under the difficulty of restricted space 
and time can exhibit only a bounded pic­
ture of the eternal sequence of causation 
and result. A novel or play must assume 
a beginning and end; but life knows 
neither.
The author attempts to show how, owing 
to conditions of the times, the Greek 
tragedy was constructed upon the prin­
ciple of* the modern short story, whereas 
the Elizabethan dramas were mostly 
dramatized novels. The modern drama 
returns more nearly to the Greek meth­
ods of exhibiting the story in a single act; 
it is more what Maupassant terms: “Slices 
of Life.” Thus Ibsen’s “Ghosts” which, 
from a technical standpoint is one of the 
very greatest of modern plays is construct­
ed according to the methods of Sophocks 
instead of the methods of Shakespeare.
“American Plays Old and New”— 
Outlook, December 28, p. 945. By Hamil­
ton W. Mabic.
Ecbnbmics
“An Unshrinkable Dollar”—Outlook, 
January 11, p. 68. By Professor Fisher’s 
remedy for the increasing cost of living. 
Professor Fisher is not only a political 
economist, but a mathematician of the 
first rank. He is in the faculty at Yale. 
Will adding to the amount of gold in the 
dollar solve the problem?
“Immigration in the Light of the Cen­
sus”— Youth's Companion, January 9, p.
19. By E. Dana Durand, Director of the 
Census. This is one of the articles the 
student of affairs cannot afford to omit 
reading.
“The Money Trust Investigation” and 
“Mr. Morgan’s Testimony”—The Out­
look, January 4, p. 2.
“Shall the States Own the Forests”— 
Outlook, December 28, 0. 935. By Henry
S. Graves, the Forester of the United 
States. A strong argument for national 
protection and conservation.
“A German attempt to lower the high 
cost, etc., by the manufacture of a vege­
table milk”—Illustrierte Zeitung, Decem­
ber 19, 1912, p. 1262.
The Panama Canal and the Tbll Ques­
tibn
“The Question of the Tolls”—1 Youth's 
Companion, January 9, p. 22. “Perhaps 
the most of us will think that, all things 
considered, the best thing to do is to keep 
faith with England, keep our pennies in 
our pockets, and let our ship-owners pay 
their tolls themselves.”
Editorial on “America’s broken pledge 
to England with regard to rate-discrimi- 
nation on the Panama Canal”—Nation, 
January 9, 1913, p. 26.
“A Christmas in Panama”—The Inde­
pendent, January 16, 1913. p. 129. By 
J. A. B. Scherer. An interesting account 
of points of interest in the construction 
of the Panama Canal.
“Our Canal Treaties”—Independent, 
January 2, p. 28. Suggestion that there
is yet time enough to enable Congress to 
rescind its action which has produced un­
friendly relations with England.
Gbvernment, Law and Pblitics
“President-elect Wilson’s Cabinet mak­
ing”—Outlook, January 11, p. 65. Is 
Mr. Bryan a menace? Others who have 
been “prominently mentioned.” See also 
Ibid, p. 60.
“Tljp Executive Department”—Youth's 
Companion, January 9, p. 22.
Woodrow Wilson’s Ideas of the Presi­
dency—The American Review of Reviews, 
January, p. 47. By James W. Garner.
“Will the Democrats Reverse our For­
eign Politics?”—-Review of Reviews, Janu- 
ary, p. 83. An attempt to outline the 
foreign policy of the United States as 
•interpreted by a high Democratic author­
ity.
Editorial on our queer position to re­
cognize the Republic of China—Nation, 
January 9, 1913, p. 23. .
Unclassified 
' “One Hundred Years of Peace”—Out­
look, December 28, p. 921. By' Henry 
Cabot Lodge, concluded in the issue of 
January 4, p. 30. A review of our rela­
tions with Great Britain since 1812. An 
extremely interesting narrative that should 
be read by every one who hopes to appre­
ciate to the full the approaching celebra­
tion of a century of peace among the 
English speaking nations of the earth. 
It is written by the most scholarly man 
in politics of our time.
“The Difficulties of a General War”— 
The Revue Bleue of December 28, 1912 
contains an article by Paul Louis. It 
shows that for numerous reasons a general 
war is a very remote probability. “A 
general war would put about twenty-six 
million men into the field.” In case of 
war the expenses of the six great nations 
would about two hundred and twenty- 
four francs a day.
An article on the “Distribution of the 
Nobel prizes for 1912.” Of interest to 
Americans: “Dal’en, the Swedish engi­
neer, whose automatic lighting system is 
to be employed in the Panama Canal”; 
and “Dra. Carrel of the Rockefeller Insti­
tute of New York, who has been substitu­
ting living tissues of animals in injured or­
gans, thus revolutionizing modern sur­
gery”—Illustrierte Zeitung, December 19,
1912, p. 1256.
FRoDAY FESToVoToES
Judging from the number who have 
bought tickets for the Track Hop, to­
morrow night’s affair will be the biggest 
and best dance held by any Tech aggre­
gation for a long time. Track Manager 
Engstrom, who is behind the event, has 
been racking his brains for ideas that will
If you don’t trade here we both lose
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
-b—Flbral Experts—b-
B936 Penn Avel, near Highland 
Private Branch Exchange Hiland 2B
The Tangb
McDbugall Dancing Classes
Shady and Penn 
Wbbd and Bth 
46&6 Fbrbes Street
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburgh’s Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO. 
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
make those attending remember the twen­
ty-fourth of January for the remainder of 
their natural lives, and his success will 
be in evidence when the music starts. 
Signor Scalzo has charge of the melody 
end, and has arranged a program that 
includes all of the best and most popular 
dance tunes. Under his personal direction, 
the orchestra will be the big feature of 
the evening. Mr. Engstrom has arranged 
for checking facilities for the ladies’ wraps 
and other details usually lacking in the 
gymnasium have been supplied. Tickets 
will be on sale at the door, if you have 
missed those selling them around school. 
Come out and enjoy one night of the 
school year. On with the dance! Let 
joy be unconfined .
WED.ESDAY MOR.o.G LECTURE
At the general lecture hour last week 
Mr. John C. White, of Chicago gave a 
most interesting and entertaining talk 
on “Direct Legislation.” His main point 
was that in spite of the popular and jeal­
ously guarded notion to the contrary, 
we of the United States are not self- 
governing and independent. This he 
sought to prove by citing a number of 
pointed and humorous examples of how 
our public affairs are managed. His way 
of putting things was unique, endeavoring 
to emphasize his points by skillful and 
humorous satire. His method of improv­
ing on the way things are managed is the 
logical one of administering public affairs 
in the same way that private individuals 
manage theirs. This can be done only by 
adopting the initiative, referundum and 
recall, and Mr. White gave a very clear 
and comprehensive definition of each, 
and an enjoyable hour was spent by all 
the students who attended.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTA.
THE SCHOOL OF MUSoC o.AUG­
URATED LAST WEEK
During the past week, another step in 
the development of the School of Applied 
Design was taken. With the beginning 
of the new course in Music, the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology is far nearer one 
of its ideals,—the novel undertaking of 
an institution affording instruction in all 
the arts. Art and Architecture have al­
lied themselves with Music to create an 
atmosphere in which culture may be bred 
and fostered. With the admittance to 
the group of Drama and Sculpture, al­
ready planned for, and encouraged by 
their sister arts, there will come into actual 
existence a school, the first of its kind, 
where all these varied, and yet fundamen­
tally related Arts will progress and achieve 
hand in hand.
The course in music has taken its place 
with little ado, and vouched for by such 
men of reputation as Victor O’Brien, Ar­
thur Burgoyne and Karl A. Malcherek, 
shows every sign of holding its own beside 
the courses that have been offered in the 
Design School previously. Despite the 
handicap of a late start, students have 
displayed great interest and enthusiasm 
and it was with deep regret that admit­
tance had to be refused to some because 
of the limiting conditions, quite naturally 
existing at the start of the course. Over 
seventy-five applicants for admittance 
presented themselves,while it was possible 
to accept little more than half this num­
ber. Previous musical training, capa­
bility, interest and ambition had all to be 
considered in accepting the applicants.
The following is a list of courses offered 
with a brief account of the object sought 
in each.
Thebry, Harmbny and Cbunter­
pbintl A complete course in harmony 
and couterpoint, leading to composition 
for those who show talent in this direction.
Sight Singingl Elementary training 
in sight reading and appreciation of 
rhythms and intervals as a basis for all 
musical study.
Ensemble Wbrkl As soon as their 
advancement warrants it, students take 
part in ensemble work, one hour a week 
through two years, in vocal and instru­
mental performance.
Public Perfbrmancel At intervals 
throughout the course students are re­
quired to perform before their fellow stu­
dents, and a jury will pass upon such per­
formance, awarding mention or special 
mention according to merit.
Aesthetics and Critical Cbncert At­
tendancel The aesthetics of music re­
lating to programs offered in this city 
which are discussed and analyzed. Criti­
cal notes on the performance are required 
of all students.
Histbry bf Musicl A series of illus­
trated lectures on the history and develop­
ment of music throughout the ages.
Acbusticsl A course of lectures on the 
scientific principles of acoustics, which 
should be the foundation of all intelligent 
musical performance.
Appreciatibn bf the Dramal A 
cultural course of lectures.
Direct Technical Wbrkl The propor­
tion of direct technical instruction in­
creases throughout the course and for this 
season includes class lessons, two students 
to a class, on the violin or viola, with en­
semble work.
There will be both day and night courses
offered in Music as in the other courses of 
the School. Lectures began last Thursday 
evening for the night classes. Better 
permanent accomodations and severai 
weeks’time are all that are needed to give 
the new course the appearance of being 
a fixture and not at all a novelty.
.OToCE
The authorization blanks for the sale 
of this year’s “Thistle”are in the hands of 
solicitors who will make a thorough can­
vass of all the students. It is up to you 
to help out the Thistle Board in the publi­
cation of the book, by not only promptly 
paying down your dollar, which insures 
you a Thistle, but also by turning in ma­
terial.
Anything in the way of pictures, taken 
about the school or any grinds or other 
matters of interest are of the utmost im­
portance to the Board and should be 
turned in. We must have the co-opera­
tion of every student and must have it 
at once. Don’t hang back, but jump in 
and get your dope lined up. •
Ml Ml Cl Sl
-----o-----
“The Sbcializatibn bf the Cbllege”
Dr. Walter Libby, Professor of History 
of Education, Pedagogy, and Psychology 
in the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School 
has recently written an article on “The 
Socialization of the College”, which is 
well worth taking the time to read and 
even to study. This article was printed 
in the Popular Science Monthly, January
1913. For the past few years Dr. Libby 
has been connected with the Northwest­
ern University, when, we understand, he 
has done some excellent work in his de­
partment. In explanation of his article, 
he said that “The expression socialization 
of the college is here used not to indicate a 
process to be set going at some time in the 
future, but to denote a development which 
can be observed in the history of institu­
tions of higher learning and which educa­
tional leaders as the conscious guides of 
evolution may now further, direct, and 
render consistent with itself.”
He then compares the Oxford Clerk of 
the fourteenth century to the English 
student of today, and the Harvard man 
of the seventeenth century to the Harvard 
man of the twentieth century.
Dr. Libbey explains that to prepare 
citizens for a democracy the organization 
of the college itself must be democratic, 
and then, in a very graphic outline, he 
shows just what is necessary in the college 
curriculum for these changes which are 
indispensable to the socialization of the 
college.
However, as in the case of Solomon, 
the “half has not been told”, and it would 
more than repay every student to avail 
himself of this excellent opportunity, and 
read Dr. Libbey’s article.
-----o-----
Why will Marion Pichel and Marguerite 
Menges insist upon coming to a school in 
a machine and making down right in front 
of the boys’ fraternity house.
JU.oOR SOCoETY ORGA.oZED
p..owNotch COLLARS
sk P^NXS,TVLE i£FOL'R tNRUthTin* BELMONT 2% in. MEDORA 2Vs in. CHESTER 2 in.g for 25 Ctg. C' UETT, PEABODY & CO..
THEMES
Theines! Themes! Lovable Themes!
How we adore them,
They fill all our dreams;
Discourses on nature, books and men 
And other subjects beyond human ken. 
Every Sunday, discouraged the attack 
we begin,
Every Monday, with tremblings, we hand 
the things in 
At the end of the week, so discouraged 
are we
That our ghosts we relinquish, Ah, woe is 
me!
LO.G DoSTA.CE CHAMPoO.SHoP
Marguerite Menges has the school cham­
pionship for long distance sliding. Ty 
Cobb isn’t in it. To see our little Margie 
skidding along the kitchen floor, a hot 
dish of macaroni in one hand and a table­
spoon of flour in the other fills one with 
wonder and awe. What wre can’t under­
stand is-- How does the floor ever hold her?
Katie had a little worm,
She cut it up one day,
Now she eats no more spaghetti,
So the Dorm girls say.
We’re not mentioning any names, nor 
saying one thing about engagements, but 
have you noticed one very radiant face 
in the Plebe Class. You can’t miss her. 
She has all the symptoms.
O.CE AGAo.
The melancholy days have come, 
The saddest of the year 
Exams are only two weeks off 
And our hearts are full of fear.
Are you curious? Yes? No? Well, 
why is a mouse when it spins? Buy a 
Thistle receipt and find out..
Thbse Thistle bbxes are nbt brna­
ments! Make use bf them by putting 
in materiall
BUTTER, EGGS, 
COFFEE, TEAS, 
POULTRY, ETCl
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver
oce Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See-us about the “eatin’s” for ybur“dbin’s’
THE HALLER BAKERY l
36&8 Fbrbes Avel, orbqubis Blbck
Wunderlich Co.
Hatters and Mens Furnishers
3723 Forbes St. Cor. Oakland Ave. 
—Nearest Tech-
Chbice Delicatessen
fbr late lunches and suppers
STEVE.SO.’S STORES
606 Wood Street Highland & Centre Aves. Down town East End
Young Men
are cbrdially invited tb jbin the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Chbrus Chbirl See
MRl MAYHEW 
at the church, cbrl Bth Avel and Bellefield 
Street Saturday evenings at 7:30l
Enterprise Pressing Cbmpany
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’ Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Offiec 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
Mellon National Bank
B&4 Smithfield Street 
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
Bell pKbrve 346B Grant
Standard Desks, Macey Filing Cabinets and Sectional Book Cases, Steel Book Units, Filing Devices and Safe Cabinets
Jl Gl Marshall Cbmpany
Office and Library Furniture 
959 Liberty Avenue Pittsburg, Pa.
‘Patrbnize bur Advertisersl”
Formal notice is hereby given of the 
organization of a Junior Society at the 
Hotel Schenley this past week. The 
society is known as Delta Skull.
Junibr Prbm
Friday, Febl 28, Hbtel Schenley
Fraternities and Clubs wishing booths an;ply 
to Holzworth, Chairman.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTA.B
| BUREAU OF RECOMME.- j 
DAToO.Sl 
Full Time Emplbyment
Assistant in Purchasing Department of 
Electrical concern. Clerical experience 
and knowledge of electrical supplies de­
sired. $60 to $75 per month.
Tracer and Detailer; for steel concern. 
$60 per month.
' Foundry Clerk; for manufacturing com­
pany near Pittsburgh. Some foundry 
experience desirable. $60 per month.
Clerk; in Order Department of machine 
company. Knowledge of machine shop 
work desirable. $40 to $50 per month.
Topographical drafting; for land com­
pany near Pittsburgh. $70 to $70 per 
month. .
Surveying work; for railroad company, 
here and in Columbus, O. $60 to $70 per 
month.
CAR.EGoE MECHA.oCAL E.Go.­
EERo.G SOCoETY
The next meeting of the C. M. E. S. 
will be held Wednesday evening, January
29, 1913. There will be a talk on some 
engineering subject by an interesting 
speaker, followed by a discussion by all 
interested. There will be “eats”, of course 
and a large turnout is expected,for a num­
ber of the alumni will be present. There 
should be no excuse for not coming be­
cause the examinations do not come until 
the following week for the day students 
and the night students will have flunked 
all theirs the week before.
The Junior Mechanicals are to be enter­
tained by a “moving picture show” by 
Mr. Cannon during the earlier part of the 
evening. The box office opens at about 
6:30 P. M., so come early and stay as long 
as you want to.
VARSoTY GOES O. TRoP
The varsity basketball team leaves to­
morrow afternoon for a short trip east, 
Two games are scheduled for the trip: 
the first with Juniata College at Hunting­
don, Pa., on Friday night, and the second 
with Penn State on Saturday night. The 
team will return on Sunday.
The next home game will be on Friday 
night, January 31.
THE SE.oOR Do..ER A 
BoG SUCCESS
Last Thursday evening fifty-eight of 
the sixty-three members of the Day Science 
Senior class gathered in the Delph Room 
of the Hotel Schenley for a good time. 
The management served an excellent 
Dutch lunch at 8:30, with the diners 
seated about one long table. After the 
refreshments, cigars and cigarettes were 
indulged in and N. G. Parry, chairman of 
the arrangement committee, called upon 
C. M. Crawford, president of the class to 
act as toastmaster. He called upon a 
number of the men identified with class 
and school activities for impromptu 
speech, the following men responding: 
Simpson, Hettle, F. 3. Crawford, Gear­
hart, Griswold, Rose, Mitchell, Greenwalt, 
Taylor, Duff, Welker, Sweitzer, Siegle, 
Stubnitz and Butler.
After the speeches Kuchovitch got a
quartette together, then followed general 
singing and dancing around the piano. 
The atmosphere was so delightfully in­
formal that a number of “stunts” were 
performed by various artists of the class, 
not the least humorous of which was 
Wehr’s demonstration of a trip in the 
clouds in a flying machine.
Those few members of the class who 
were not present missed a very pleasant 
and congenial evening, and should avail 
themselves of the opportunity of attend­
ing the next gathering, as it was voted 
that one should be held each month from 
now until graduation time.
Have ybu gbt ybur Thistle receipt 
yet? of nbt, why nbt? There is a rep­
resentative in each classl Dbn’t waitl 
Tempus fugitl
o.TERCOLLEGoATE .OTES
All Rutgers men are proud of the fact 
that the first intercollegiate football game 
in history was won by Rutgers. It was 
played in New Brunswick on Saturday, 
November 6, 1869, with Princeton, and 
the final score was Rutgers 6, Princeton 4. 
But few of us know anything about the 
members of that memorable “team of 
’69.” William J. Leggett,’72, was cap­
tain, and before the game was called he 
met with Captain William S. Gummer, 
’70, of Princeton, and drew up the first 
code of football rules on record. A foot­
ball team was then not an “eleven,” but a 
“twenty-five,” for there were twenty-five 
men on each side. It is known that at 
least twenty-six Rutgers men played in 
that first game, and possibly there were 
others used as substitutes of whom there 
is no record. Of those twenty-six, twenty 
are still living and have represented Rut­
gers widely in the professional and business 
world for the past two-score years.
According to the Amherst Student 
the cost of living in the college world 
is increasing. Interesting statistics ob­
tained show an average increase of slightly 
more than 40 per cent, in the cost of tui­
tion over that of 20 years ago. The cost 
of board has also increased, but not so 
uniformly as to make possible an exact 
statement. The country-wide interest in 
the increased cost of living has stimulated 
this informal investigation of this cost of 
college living.
The Honorable Whitelaw Reid, Am­
bassador to England, was an alumnus 
of Miami University, having graduated 
with the class of ’56.
The Yale libraries contain over 900,000 
volumes.
The following interesting statistics from 
the report of the U. S. Bureau of Educa­
tion :Teaching is now the dominant pro­
fession for college graduates, with 25 per 
cent.; law, 15 per cent.; medicine, 6 to 7 
per cent.; engineering, 4 per cent.; minis­
try, 5 per cent.
The Harvard athletic authorities have 
reported a total of 982 men who took 
part in athletics during the first three 
months of the college year. One hundred 
and ninety-seven men reported for foot­
ball at Soldiers’ Field and 153 were call­
ed out for crew. Tennis tournaments 
brought out 149 competitors and 117 men 
were engaged in track. The minor sports, 
soccer, fencing, hockey, swimming and 
gymnastic contests attracted 316 athletes. 
—The Pennsylvanian.
“Descrip”
When everything goes dead wrong,
And you’d sell your life for a song,
Why, throw out your chest, don’t give a 
rip,
Be happy, be joyous, you’re through with 
“Descrip.”
If your drawing is on the hummer,
And your “Quiz” average is “bummer,”
Why, laugh, dance and the honey of hap­
piness sip,
Just think for a moment, you are through 
with “Descrip.”
When you feel that gloomy feeling coming 
o’er,
And even your “jimmy” pipe is a bore,
Throw open the windows and scuttle the 
ship;
Come what may, you are through with 
“Descrip.”
-—Fulcrum.
Speaking of gas-producers—during 1911 
West Virginia produced 200,000,000,000 
cubic feet of natural gas, valued at $28,- 
452,000, most of which was piped to Pitts­
burgh, Pa., at the rate of about forty-two 
miles an hour.
A handy method for determining the 
sign of an electric current is suggested by a 
helpful contributor. In operation it is 
very simple: place one terminal on the 
•tongue, the other in the hand; if the wire 
tastes acid then that is the positive termi­
nal, but if caustic or alkaline your are 
tasting the negative one. Although we 
have never used this means ourself, still 
it sounds reasonable; however, we won’t 
recommend it for excessively high voltages.
Estimates are now out for a hydroelec­
tric power plant to be built in Norway. 
It will harness two mediumly large rivers 
by means of a dam 140 feet high; will 
develop 200,000 horsepower; cost $10,-
000,000, and be the largest in the world.
ECHOS OF THE GET TOGETHER
From the “Cornell Chemist”
Instructor 1916
How can you prepare nascent hydro­
gen?
By electrocuting HCE.
Instructor 1916
Where is HC1 found free?
On the laboratory reagent shelves. 
Instructor 1916
What is a stable compound?
One that will stand without hitching. 
Instructor 1916
What is an allotropic compound?
One found near the tropics. 
Instructor 1916
Why is nascent hydrogen more active 
than molecular hydrogen?
Because it is looking for an affinity. 
Instructor 1916
What is mineral wool?
The shearings off a hydraulic ram. 
Instructor 1916
Who is “Billy O?”
The man that put the form in for­
maldehyde.
PlERPONT, Si VITER & CO.
ENQRAVINQ PRINTINQ
EMBOSSINU
Monograms and Crest Stationery promptly- furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social and commercial purposes
117-119 SHADY AVENUE
YOU’RE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shbp
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-A
Hl Al BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE 
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC 
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
^ner^fMpJr .l Sl, Pittsburgh,Pal
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
4&4 Wbbd Stl
Stbp at
STAUFT’S
.ews—Statibner—Tbbaccb 
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
THE BOSTO.
will be taught in class Wednesday 
evenings at 8 P. M. at the
Jacques’ Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
THE ST A NDARD OF EXCELLE NCE
Mac DO.ALD’S
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, Dainty Lunch. 
Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, 
Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pal
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Cb*
orbqubis Blbck 
Cheerfully, prbmptly and bn the 
best bf terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
Ol Cl HE.RY
339 Fifth Ave.
P HOT OGRAPHS
We make a specialty of school groups, class 
and fraternity pictures. Prices the lowest and 
work the best. — Telephone Grant 3581.
Themes that you write as you ought to 
write
Are never as themes should be 
But themes that you write in the dead of 
night
When you’ve been out with the boys 
And are two-thirds tight 
Show great care and deep insight 
And are good for at least a C.
—Ohio State Lantern.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTA.
Pl Ludebuehl & Sbn
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
“GEE=WHoZ,==at $4l00”
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Men’s Boots. This is strictly a young 
man’s boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
^fBuilt for us by a famous Brockton Man­
ufacturer.
Step in Our Men’s Department
True Values b & B True Values
ybung men’s clbthing
Young men’s $25.00, $30.00, and $32.50 suits—fancy mixtures, light and dark 
colors—blue and black unfinished worsted—sizes 32 to 48, $18.50.
Double breasted Ulster Overcoats, $13.50.
50c neckwear, 25c.
Cut silk and knitted ties in variety of excellent patterns—50c ties, 25c.
Bbggs & Buhl, 
Pittsburghf Penn'al
GREGORoO SCALZO
-----Leader Carnegie Tech Mandblin Club-----
Music fbr all bccasibnsl Exceptibnal Dance Orchestras at
reasbnable pricel
Address—Atwbbd & Cable Telephbne—Schenley &638-R
“Just Right” Clbthing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
“Just Right” Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemen’s profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & COl
Wbbd and Sixth Street
HOTEL SCHE.LEY
PoTTSBURGH, PAl
Under the Management bf the Schenley Hbtel and Restaurant Cbmpany 
Roman H Heyn, President 
ROOM RATES $2l00 PER DAY A.D UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge °f our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support" 
ers, and we are therefo.e in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phbne 2 e h schenley
City Office; East End Office;
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Wbrks
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Wbrks: Cbrl Bryant, StlClair and Mellbn Stsl
o Theaters Week bf Janl 27l o
—---------------------——-—*
ALVo.—“Ready Money”, a farce that 
had long runs in Chicago and New York 
will come to the Alvin with a strong com­
pany.
.oXO.—Viola Allen in Pierre Lotis 
oriental spectacle and drama, “The Daugh­
ter of Heaven”, will be at the Nixon.
DUQUES.E—Miss Mary Hall will say
good bye to the Stock Company in a re­
vival of Henrietta Crosman’s old comedy,
‘ ‘ All-of-a-Sudden-Peggy ”.
GRA.D—Tabloid musical comedy will 
head the bill of vaudeville.
LYCEUM—“ One Day” a dramatiza­
tion of one of Elinor Glyn’s novels will 
be at the Lyceum.
The Thistle bbxes are tb be fbund 
by the bulletin bbard in each buildingl 
See if ybu can’t get ybur “dbpe” in 
them quickl
REPORT O. &9&2 “THoSTLE”
Receipts
On Sale of Books.............................$1,473.00
Returned on Cuts......................... 73.50
Ad. (Student P. B.)...................... 340.00
$1,886.50
Interest from Bank....................... 1.76
Total..........................................$1,888.26
Expenses
Printing.............................................$1,216.00
Engraving.......................................................... 487.39
Ribbon (B. & B.)............................... 42.00
Photographs...................................................... 66.00
Prizes.........................................*..... 15.00
Stationery, etc., (minor ex.)......... 31.50
1,857.89
Cash on hand................................. 30.37
$1,888.26
Cash on hand ......................................$30.37
Accounts receivable............................. 32.50
Net Gain.......................................$62.87
J. C. SIEGLE, 
Business Manager.
AT COR.ELL
The following is an authentic (?) ac­
count of the proceedings which must be 
gone through with to get the Doctor’s 
degree at Cornell, as given by the “Cor­
nell Chemist” of January, 1913:
Inasmuch as the examination for the 
Degree of Doctor of Philosophy is conduct­
ed with so much secrecy here at Cornell, 
it seems desirable to let the general public 
in on the mysteries. Therefore, the next 
number was a playful playlet entitled, 
“To be or not to be.”
The Dramatis Personae were:
G. I, R. Sumkemist, a humble applicant 
for the doctoral appendage..A. E. Parmelee 
Herr Professor Doctor Tetramethyldia- 
midotriphenylcarbinal, examiner for one
of the minor subjects..........F. E. Carruth
Doc. C. P. Buzylene, examiner for other 
minor subject............................A. R. Hitch
Prof. Bankrupt, examiner for major sub­
ject......................................H. W. Redfield
Scene, Recitation Room A, Horse Hall. 
The title of Sumkemist’s thesis is “Stud­
ies on the Electrolytic Preparation of 
Positive Colloidal Oxygen Atoms and the 
Liberation of Asymmetric Carbon Atoms 
from a Solid Solution of Cobalt by Means 
of a High Current Density, using Glass 
Electrodes.”
The opening curtain discovers Tetra 
and Bankrupt waiting patiently for Buzy­
lene and the Candidate. Finally Sumke- 
mist enters bearing a bound thesis the 
size of an unabridged dictionary. The 
candidate appears somewhat nervous and 
goes over to the board and proceeds to 
write structural formulas of fantastic 
design. Finally Buzylene enters and apol­
ogizes profusely for his tardiness. Then 
the examination proceeds. Buzylene and 
Herr Tetra match to see who should quiz 
first. For the sake of those who are now 
studying for the Doctor’s degree the editor 
has decided to put down some of the ques­
tions and the answers.
Q. What is the difference between a 
primary, a secondary, and a tertiary alco­
hol?
A. A primary alcohol is one that was 
used in primitive times; a secondary alco­
hol is one that was used in mediaeval 
times; and a tertiary alcohol is one used 
in modern times. It is thought that 
Peruna contains some quaternary and 
quintary alcohols.
Q. What is a keytone?
A. Middle C.
Q. What aldehyde is CHO?
A. That ain’t no aldehyde, that’s sea 
water.
Q. Give some well known examples of 
optical activity.
A. A Radiometer is active in sunlight, 
Eva Tanguay is active in limelight, Rube 
Marquard is laevo rotatory and Christy 
Matheson is dextro rotatory.
Q. Who was the originator of the Law 
of Boyles?
A. ' Job.
Q. State Archimedes’ principle.
A. He didn’t have any.
Q. . What happens if you add an acid 
remark to a basic principle?
A. Hot air will be evolved and trouble 
may be precipitated.
Q. In terms of the phase rule define 
a bachelor.
A. A one-component system with in­
finite degrees of freedom.
Q. A married man.
A. A two-component system with no 
degrees of freedom.
Q. When may a stude at the Dutch 
be said to be in equilibrum?
A. When he is in that state which un­
der the same conditions is unchanged by 
time.
After the satisfactory answering of these. . *questions and many more, the victim is • 
allowed to depart while the Profs debate 
his case. This they do by discussing the 
World’s series, gold, etc., etc., and finally 
toss up a coin to see whether the candidate 
gets it, or gets it in the neck. Luckily it 
falls right and everybody’s happy.
o.TERCOLLEGoATE .EWS
Arrangements have been completed for 
a race between the Pennsylvania and 
Harvard crevvs on Charles River, May 10. 
If Princeton enter as the rowing author­
ities of both universities hope, it will be a
triangular race. Princeton rowed in a 
triangluar race with Harvard and Cornell 
on the Charles River last spring, and 
came in a quarter of a length behind Har­
vard, who finished second.
The graduate coaching system for Yale
football teams is a thing of the past. Cap­
tain Henry Ketcham announced last week 
that for the first time in its history, the 
Eli eleven will be instructed by a paid 
football coach next year.
“Patrbnize bur Advertisersl”
