'SUL^Meeting 
Tartan Staff 
Thursday, 4:30Qm (3ari m
Don’t Forget 
The Straw Vote 
Today.
VOL. XIV. No. 14.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA.JANUARY 14, 1920.
Fourteen Tech Delegates Attend 
Student Volunteer Convention
Almost One Thousand Colleges Represented 
Eight Thousand Present
(By Tartan Representative at 
Des Moines, Iowa.)
The Student Volunteer Convention 
which open here Dec. 31, Wednesday 
afternoon was probably the most re­
markable affair ever held in the way 
of conventions. Over eight thousand 
delegates, representing almost one 
thousand colleges and forty countries 
attentded the session daily. Carnegie 
Tech was represented by fourteen, 
two faculty members and twelve stu­
dents which as announced before 
were:
Faculty—G. T. Miller, Miss Le- 
norah Honecker.
Students—Miss Mary Bechtel, M. 
M. ’20; Miss Eleanor Cox, M. M. ’20; 
Miss Eleanor McCarson, M. M. *21; 
Miss Gladys Ramsay, M. M. ’22; Miss 
Lillian M. Coleman, M. M. ’23; Mr. 
R. D. Foxon, Science ’21; L. E. 
Emerich, Science ’21 (Tartan repre­
sentative) ; Mr. J. K. W. McAlpine, 
Science ’21; Mr. L. DePre Fontaine, 
Arts ’20; Mr. Marshall Muir, Science 
’22; Mi*. J. B. de M. Carvalho, Science 
’20.
In conveying such a large number 
of delegates to Des Moines it was 
necessary to run special trains of 
which 19 arrived Wednesday morn­
ing. The Pittsburgh delegation was 
fortunate to make the trip on one of 
the trains on which were the dele­
gates from Yale, Harvard, Princeton, 
Columbia, Brown, Rutgers, Mt. Holy­
oke, Vassar, and many other eastern 
schools too numerous to mention. The 
citizens of Des Moines showed the 
visitors every cordiality and “Wel­
come, Student Volunteers’' on large 
placards were noticeable over the en­
tire city. The meetings were very 
impressive and instructive.
In seven international conventions 
the student volnnteer movement has 
increased its attendance from 680 in 
1891, when the first session was held 
in Cleveland, to 8,000, which is the 
total registration for the meeting in 
Des Moines.
The rapid, progress of the move­
ment during the intervening years 
was described by John R. Mott, chair­
man of the executive committee, in 
his address.
“The great war has revealed as 
never before the limitless capaci­
ties of the students of our genera­
tion,” Dr. Mott said. “The mis­
sionary program alone furnishes 
an adequate outlet for these new­
ly disclosed and well night bound­
less energies.”
Dr. Mott presented a report show­
ing that 8,140 volunteers have been 
sent into the foreign fields. Of this 
number 2,524 went to China alone. 
Indiana, and adjacent fields, come sec­
ond with a total of 1,570.
Text of Speech.
“The Student Volunteer movement 
for Foreign Missions, which had its 
rise at Mount Hermon, Mass., in the 
summer of 1886, has rounded out in 
the year just closed the first full gen­
eration of its life.
“,At the outset it si well to remind 
ourselves of the well-established pur­
poses of the Student Volunteer move­
ment—purposes which have been held 
in prominenece and steadfastly adher­
ed to through all the years:
(1) To awaken and maintain 
among all Christian students of the 
United States and Canada intelligent 
and active interest in foregn missions.
(2) To enroll a sufficient number 
of properly qualified volunteers to 
meet the successive demands of the 
various mission boards of North Am­
erica in their effort to give all living 
me nthe oportunity to know the Liv­
ing Christ.
(3) To help all such intending 
missionaries in preparing for their 
life-work and to enlist their coopera­
tion in developing the missionary life 
of the colleges and of the home 
churches.
(4) To lay an equal burden of re­
sponsibility on all students who are to 
remain at home as ministers and lay 
workers, that they may actively pro­
mote the missionary enterprise by 
their intelligent advocacy, by their 
gifts and by their prayers.
Thousand Colleges.
“The field embraces fully 1,000 in­
stitutions, which have in them today 
approximately 800,000 students. The
movement has brought within the 
range of its helpful influence more 
colleges than has any other national 
or international student movement, 
save the all-embracing World’s Stu­
dent Christian Federation.
Because the Student Volunteer 
movement is a movement and because 
it is a movement for foreign missions, 
the principal test of its efficacy is 
found in the going forth of its mem­
bers to the foreign mission fields. 
Since the movement was organized, 
the records show that 8,140 of the stu­
dents whom it has enrolled as volun­
teers have gone out to the mission 
fields. Of this large number, 2,203 
have gone out since the Kansas City 
convention six years ago.
“The 8,140 volunteers who have 
sailed have gone to virtually all of the 
battlefields of Christianity through­
out the entire non-Christian world.
Countries Represented.
“They have been distributed over 
the world as follows:
Africa ............................................... 867
Arabia ............................................... 31
Central America ............................ 60
China .................................................2,524
India, Bermuda and Ceylon.........1,570
Japan and Korea............................. 987
Latin and Greek countries of
Europe........................................... 42
Oceania ............................................. 63
Persia................................................. 76
Phillippine ....................................... 216
Siam and Straits Settlements... 155
South America................................ 571
Turkey............................................... 270
West Indies ..................................... 226
Other countries ............................... 275
Total .............................................8,140
“It would be difficult to overstate 
the far-reaching influence on the 
world’s evangelization and Christiani 
zation exerted by the movement thru 
the going forth of these more than 
8,000 volunteers.
“What have they not accomplished 
in the way of pioneering new fields 
and widening the limits of Christ’s 
Kingdom; in the planting and devel­
oping of Christian schools, colleges 
and universities; in the opening up 
and conducting of missionary hopitals 
and dispensaries and the instituting of 
other measures for the relief of the 
physical sufferings of countless mil­
lions of mankind; in the bringing to 
bear of the principles and spirit of 
Christ upon the economic, social, po 
litical and racial problems of nations 
and peoples in the waging of a cease- 
less and well-nigh world-wide cam­
paign of personal and social evangel­
ism in the planting of Christian 
churches and the enlisting and train­
ing of leaders of the Christian forces; 
in the shaping of missionary policy 
and the exercise of Christian states­
manship !
Study of Missions.
“One of the outstanding features of 
the Volunteer Movement, which has 
(Continued on page 4.)
archecturaT'students
arc hertuT 'ssueud np ie!cT™'circuci!l 'rl ™'.
Final judgment on the designs for': 
a gasoline service station presented to 
the Transcontinental Oil Company by 
students of the School of Architecture' 
was held on Saturday, December 20th. 
At that time a jury of nine men drawn 
from the executive forcé of the com­
pany, from the faculty of the Division 
of the Arts, and from prominent arch­
itects in this city awarded the fol- 
lowin gprizes:—
L. F. Lashmit, 1st prize.........$300
W. N. Holmquist, 2nd prize.. 200 
Barry H. Dierks, 3rd prize.. 100 
L. E. Considine, 3rd prize.. 100
J. L. DeYoung.......................... 50
John B. McCool..................... 50
C, W. Hunt.............................. 50
P. F. Simpson.......................... 50
C. E. Silling............................. 50
J. P. Morgan.......................... 50
After the judgment the officials of 
the company expressed great satis­
faction with quality and the character 
of the designs submitted.
MiiiKHiffliBWiHnmnaniiiBinniiiiiimiiBminniRiiunwiimìiBnni iiwinii i ¡r
SENIORS!
The 1920 Thistle Board wishes to thank you for 
your help in handing your write-ups in on time and 
for your promptness in reporting for photographs.
Now make a good job of it and return those -i
proofs to the photographer as soon as you get them.
Take them back in person or mail them to the photo­
grapher. Sign your name on the back of the proof 
you want published.
These proofs must all be in the photographer’s 
hands by January 17.
?f ' |
......................................................................................................................................tin....
arciue QU!eiue a'eK 
ariH srVu G''d hl!pT
JUcr'e he'M hl!cT 
!lM'Ti ™'Mhluiud
Science and Design
Organization Members!
Be on hand for the Thistle photograph today. 
If you are prompt all will run smoothly. Look at 
your bulletin board.
The Friday afternoon performance 
in the theatre last week was one of 
unusual merit—both in the quality of 
the plays and of the acting. There 
were two one-act plays both by Ken­
neth Sawyer Goodman. The second 
on the bill was “Back of the Yards”, 
which was first presented by The 
Drama School last fall and has been 
fully discussed in The Tartan pre­
viously. Let it be added, however, 
that the force of the original produc­
tion was in no wise lessened in this 
last performance. It was not “stale” 
from Christmas storage but seemed to, 
have gained more surety and smooth­
ness and the general shape of the 
play was splendid. Individually the 
acting was excellent, with Mr. Smith, 
Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Thompson in 
the most important roles. Again 
nevertheless Mr. Thomson was not 
completely convincing in his biggest 
dramatic movements. He seemed 
afraid to let loose the emotion that 
the obviously nerve-wracked condi­
tion of the boy would justify and 
which was necessary to cap the cru­
cial climax to a terrifically tense play.
The first play of the bill “Dust of 
the Road” was presented before by 
the school on December 19, just be­
fore the Christmas vacation but has' 
had no comment in this paper. This 
is also by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman 
and might be called a modern moral­
ity play. It takes place Christmas 
eve at midnight. The characters are 
Peter Steele, a Middle-Western farm­
er and Prudence Steele his wife, re­
spectable people of a conscientiously 
virtuous and hypocritical type who 
attend church religiously but turn 
away poor tramps from their door. 
The Uncle, an old man is of a kindlier 
mould who serves to offset the cruelty 
of Prudence Steele. She and her hus­
band contemplate the silent retention 
of a sum of money entrusted them 
by a friend. The friend is dead but 
the son should have it and that is the 
temptation of Peter Steele. The 
tramp who calls himself just “Dust 
of the Road” stirs the conscience of 
Prudence and frightens her by his un­
canny vision of herself. To Peter 
Steele too he appears to show the man 
his own soul which Peter is afraid to 
see and is ready to sell. Then jingling 
silver coin in his pocket the tramp re­
veals himself—“The one being that 
knos best the priceless value of the 
thing you’re so ready to sell—Judas 
of Kerioth.” The play ends with a 
renascence of souls and a little too 
forcible flourish of reform.
The performance of the play on 
Friday was much more finished than 
the first appearance. Miss Rubinstein 
as Prudence Steele did a good bit of 
repressed acting in a difficult role. 
Mr. Buchanan as Peter interpreted 
the matter of fact smug character 
convincingly. Mr. White Deade, a 
querulous but kindly old man. But 
the play, as the part of the “Dust 
of the Road” demands depended large­
ly upon Mr. Church. As Judas of 
Kerioth, Mr. Church did a beautiful 
piece of work. His voice possesses 
the lyric quality necessary to the un­
reality and abstract symbolism of the 
part. His rendering of the lines gave 
full measure to the poetiy—of the 
lines—“It’s one thing to die in splen­
did agony and save the world. It’s 
another to drag the weight of a name 
like mine from century to century”— 
There was an eloquence of feeling 
coupled with the expression under a 
well-arranged light that was sublime. 
One suggestion to Mr. Church is to 
be’ careful of the end of his speeches. 
His last words always fall.
This play was produced under the 
direction of Mr. Stevens, the other of 
Mr. Wallace. The winter quarter has 
indeed begun well.
----------B----------
ARTS PLEBE DACNE.
The plebe class of the Division of 
the Arts will give their long antici­
pated dance on Friday the 16th. .A 
cordial invitation to attend is extend­
ed all students of the Division of the 
Arts. The dance is to be held in the 
foyer of the Arts building, and the 
plebes promise a good time to the up- 
I per classmen who come.
Plans for the Junior Prom have just 
about been completed and everything 
will soon be in readiness for M. M.’s 
biggest social affair of the year. The 
annual custom of having the Margaret 
Morrison Prom separate from that of 
the other three schools was followed 
this year. A proposition to have a 
four school prom was brought for­
ward but was rejected by M. M. after 
a class vote had been taken on the 
matter. There would be many points 
of advantage in having a four-school 
prom but the reasons against such a 
plan seemed to be stronger than those 
for it.
The prom will be held the night 
of March 5th in the Hotel Schenley.
The Schenley was chosen in place 
of the Rittenhouse where the prom 
wa sheld last year. The chairmen of 
the various prom committees arc 
Amelia Schade, music committee; 
Agnes Russell, hall committee; Vivian 
Schmucker, refreshment committee. 
Each committee is composed of three 
girls. Louise Irvin, as social chair­
man of the class, is general chairman.
auTi VreGrcr! srVu Hueu T!iUed!p crGHi
The strong West Virginia five will 
be Tech’s next opponents on Satur­
day night. The contest will certainly 
be a heated one and will probably be 
one of the most interesting of the 
season. The game also marks the 
resumption of relations with West 
Virginia. After last Saturday’s score 
things look bright; so everybody 
ought to see the Mountainoers. A 
dance will be held in the Union after 
the game.
After this game the schedule re­
mains as follows:
Jan. 21—Allegheny .................(home)
Jan. 24—Allegheny .................(home)
Jan. 28—Open.
Jan. 30—Grove City ...............(home)
Feb. 6—Allegheny .................(away)
Feb. 7—Grove City.................(away)
Feb. 18—Westinghouse..........(home)
Feb. 20—W. & J........................(away)
Feb. 26—Franklyn & Marshall (away)
Feb. 27—Rutgers .....................(away)
Feb. 28—Lehigh .......................(away)
Mar. 4—Colgate .....................(home)
Mar. 13—Open.
VrTrircGTu™eui!ep 
i!KuT cua h'Trir'c
Robert J. Peters, Visiting Secretary 
of C. I. T. has been appointed by 
Commissioner C. B. Connelley, De­
partment of Labor and Industry, 
Commonwealth of Penn’a, as consult­
ant in the adjustment of the State 
Bureau of Employment, which is un­
der the supervision of that depart­
ment. Mr. Peters will probably secure 
a leave of absence from C. I. T. to 
undertake this work for the Common­
wealth.
----------U----------
ALPHA ALPHA NU
.HOLDS DINNER MEETING
On Wednesday evening last the 
members of Alpha Alpha Nu congre­
gated at the “Far East” to participate 
in their first social meeting. After a 
delightful spread ,a short business 
session was held at which plans for 
the extension and work of the organi­
zation were discussed. The meeting 
adjourned early enough to allow the 
party to attend a theatre performance. 
As to toastmaster, W. M. Burke serv­
ed in the capacity quite fittingly. 
Many hopes were expressed for a rcp- 
itition of the evening soon.
----------P>----------
Put that snap-shot in the Thistle Box.
----------0----------
The result of a straw vote taken in 
Princeton on the League of Nations 
was 542-297 in favor of the League.
Plaid Tossers Defeat Strong
Westinghouse Club 36-21
Plebes Also Win From Reserves by 32-30
Tech Loses Relay.
Coach Bianchi’s pastimers uncorked 
a real stellar brand of basketball last 
Saturday night at Wilkinsburg when 
they copped off both victories in a 
double-headed clash with the West­
inghouse soft-shoc artists.
The plebes staged the curtain raiser 
with the Westinghouse Reserves and 
came galloping home with the bacon 
after McCaw and Gibson had ferried 
nine field goals thru the hoop and six 
tallies from the foul line. McKenna 
and Anderson rounded out the total 
with a pair apiece.
The Varsity quintet then took up 
the fray with the Westinghouse reg­
ulars and led them a merry chase thru 
the two snappy periods finally closing 
the set to on the long side of a 31-26ore.
The work of Lynn at guard and 
Hamman in the forward trench was noteworthy thruout.
Windy was infallible on the foul 
line, derricking the sphere thru the 
ring fifteen times out of seventeen chances.
Between the games the Westing­
house runners defeated Tech at an in­door relay.
For the opponents Reed and Cas­sidy played the leads.
The line-up.
Plebe Game.
Carnegie, 32. Reserves, 30.
Gibson ...................F...............Thompson
McCaw..................F..................... Rider
McKenna..............C.................MinnerarTrimble .................G......................Dazell
Anderson..............G.......... Westergard
Field goals, Gibspn 5, McCaw 4, Mc- 
Rider 2, Minnerar -1. Foul goals Me
Caw 6 out of 11. Thompson 8 out of 14.
Varsity game.
Carnegie, 31. Westinghouse, 26.
Hamman ...............F....................... Reed
Dosey.....................F....................Cassidy
Wier.......................C...................... Ciepp
Lynn ......................G.............. Robinson
Carey .....................G.................. Renaux
Substitute Moon for Wier. Field 
goals, Hamman 3, Dosay 2, Lynn 2, 
Moon 1, Reed 3, Cupp 2. Fouls, 16 
out of 22. Referee Begg Snyder. 
Time of halfs 20 minutes.
np hHr uhTrl'c hr
At the great Victory Convention of 
Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity, recently 
held at the William Penn Hotel, Pitts­
burgh was signally honored by the 
election to important national offices, 
of two members from this district. 
I. E. Ecker, U. of Pgh., ’18, was the 
unanimous choice of the delegates 
present for the important post of 
grand recording secretary, and M. J. 
Krause, U. of Pgh., *12, the unanimous 
choice for grand treasurer. Eugene 
Obordorfer, Jr., of Atlanta, Ga., was 
elevated to the post of Grand Superior 
of the fraternity, William Sprend of 
Boston, was chosen Vive-Grand Su­
perior ,and Attorney Edward Davis of 
Philadelphia, was made grand corre­
sponding secretary.
The Victory Convention was by far 
the most successful in the annuals of 
the organization, as was unanimously 
attested by the largo number of dele­
gates who attended from the 20 chap­
ters constituting the fratornity. Tele­
grams of felicitation were received 
from many high national officials, in­
cluding a personal wiro from Presi­
dent Wilson, “Wishing success to the 
Victory Convention and to Phi Epsi­
lon Pi in its work of the ensuing 
year.” Among the list of prominent 
men who addrosscd the different ses­
sions of the Convention was Mayor 
Babcock, who extended the welcome 
of the city at the formal banquet, hold 
on Monday evening, December 29, in 
the William Penn Hotel. On Sunday, 
December 28, Congressman John M. 
Morin spoke at a smoker at the Zeta 
chapter house. Chancellor McCorm­
ick of Pitt spoke at the Tuesday 
morning session on “The Fraternity’s 
Value to a College,” concluding with 
a warm welcome to the Phi Epsilon 
(Continued on page 2.)
TiUduciT H!Vu ™H!eGu 
's sreTi !TTuMnlp
The first assembly of the new year 
was turned over to the students in the 
absence of Dean Breed who usually 
conducts the first assembly. Miss 
Breed is ill and is unable to be at 
school. Miss Harriet Stone conducted 
the assembly. Informal reports of 
the social side of the trip to the Stu­
dent Volunteer Convention were given 
by the school delegates to the con­
vention. The formal report of the 
convention will be made at a special 
meeting to be held this week some­
time.
Announcements from the different 
school activities were made. Miss 
Amos, Dean of Women at the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh will speak at the 
next assembly.
—-------P----------
Put that snap-shot in the Thistle Box.
euh'ei GrVuc 
TiUduci
At the servico held principally for 
students at tho Sixth Presbyterian 
Church at Forbes and Murray, five 
delegates delivered a summarized re­
port of tho recent Student Voluntcor 
Convention held at Des Moines, Iowa. 
Tho featuro was tho sparso attend­
ance of Tech studonts. The speakors 
and their subjocts woro:
“What is tho Student Volunteer 
Movomont”—G. T. Millor.
“To and from tho Convention City” 
—Miss Mary Bechtel.
“What tho Student Voluntcor 
Movement Has Done”—L. E. Emor- 
icli.
“Tho Challongo from Foroign 
Lands”—-Miss Loonora Honecker.
“What II; may mean to Pittsburgh” 
—Miss Eleanor McCarson.
A repetition of student night will 
bo hold next Sunday evening at which 
time Dr. J. Ross Stovonson of Prince­
ton will speak. Why not bo thoro?
president!™ letterse'M s'eMue rcTieU™i'e
My Doar President Hamorschlag:
Your good wishes arrived at a vory 
opportune time—tho day before tho 
Judgment at tho Beaux Arts Salon. It 
was a most sovero judgment, only 
four medals being awarded—though 
about three hundred or more designs 
woro submitted, from Paris, Lyons, 
Marseilles, and other cities. I am 
very happy to be able to inform you 
that I was awarded one of those four 
medals and that my design was ranked 
first. It was a tremendous surprise 
to me, for I had a hard time with the 
problem, doing everything a French­
man would not do, and nearly driving 
the Patron of my Atelier (M. Jaus- 
sely) frantic with my “curious” Amer­
ican logic and ideas. The project was 
a museum for Arts and Trades, and 
called for the most exacting and mod­
ern interpretation of modern build­
ing materials and construction, as well 
as an economic arrangement on the 
terrain.
The next day, the very important 
Godeboenf Competition started. This 
competition is the complement of the 
Rougevin Competition, which Mr. El- 
lengton won in 1913. The difference 
is that instead of being purely decora­
tive, it is a combination of construc­
tion, science, and decoration. And 
this year’s program is the most diffi­
cult they have ever given out—a Steel 
Bridgehead on the Rhine, marking the 
end of a steel bridge and the begin­
ning of the French frontier, and com­
memorating the recovery of Alsace 
Lorraine and the triumph of French 
taste over German Kultur. Not being 
a Frenchman, the last requirement al- 
(Continued on page 2.)
NOTICE!
Any organization not appearing in last year’s 
Thistle can be placed in the 1920 Thistle by notifying 
J. J. Rudisill, Photographic Editor, Box 165, C. I. T. 
Post Office.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1920.
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Gc the copyCanada, $1.75
Bditor-ln-Chicf.................................................................................LcRoy E. Emcrich
Phone Hazel 9422
Business Manager ............................'................................................T. W. AllsworthPhone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Associate News Editors 
W. D. Hall
Athletic Editor 
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athletic Editor
Circulation Manager 
II. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffon
Science...................f. K. W. Macalpine
Industries............................I. R. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
H. C. Haldcman 
R. G. Welsh 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
J. R. Barrow 
Gertrude Baton Margaret Stolzenbaugli 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF 
I). A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
M. I. Cohen
Must be bad when old men can't come. Rehearsal every Thursday at 4:30. 
If you play a band instrument let us hope the spirit will move you to attend. 
Clean the Pittsburgh 'SUUL' out of your horn and blow it louder than ever 
for “Dear Old Tech”. Think of it, man, you might be able to learn to play 
that piece correctly, simple as it may seem.
THE NEW ATHLETIC PLAN.
A a result of the recent conferences on the athletic situation, a new plan has been developed.
The entire charge of athletics now remains with a committee on which 
the following servo: Two Varsity Clan members, two from the general alum­
ni, three from the faculty and three from the student body. This committee 
will have charge of expenditures for equipment, etc., as well as being re­
sponsible for the financial support of athletics.
This new scheme evolves four possible sources of finance, (1) student 
fees; (2) institute; (3) alumni subscription; (4) gate receipts.
The committee has power to elect a graduate manager and in any event 
the administration has no authority to dictate unless the new plan shows 
plain evidence of failure.
These plans have been under discussion for a long time and every one 
is sure that the right and best thing has come forth.
----------&----------
PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Contributed)
Are you interested in photography? Tech has no club, as some other 
colleges have. How would you like to organize one? Think it over. Discuss 
it with other students and faculty interested.
Such a club would fill a big gap in our student life. We have many 
organizations, but none which offers the distinctive taype of instruction and 
pleasure which would me obtained in this manner. Darkroom space would 
be furnished by the school, and apparatus bought or made by the club. Thus, 
means would be offered for the making of prints, enlargements, and lantern 
slides, which could be exhibited at meetings with open discussion. Other 
meetings to consist of talks by members or outsiders. Occasional trips would 
also be on the program of events.
We have the hearty agreement and cooperation of interested faculty 
members. Watch The Tartan and the bulletin boards. If you are interested, 
co-operate.
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All businoss communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, beforo 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT.
A few years ago there existed at our institution an organization which 
was called the Y. M. C. A. Although many spurned it and its morning 
meetings were sparsely attended, the organization kept going for awhile. 
We are sorry to say it had a short existence and is now recognized as one 
of the so-called extinct organizations on our records. It is easy to admit 
th(it this is not a theological seminary, but will the leading of a good life 
be a discredit to any am*?If never before, the recent Student Volunteer Convention has success­
fully demonstrated our one failure and probably this is not the only one but 
on outstanding one. It was remarked that Carnegie Tech was the one 
school in the United States that did not have any religious organization. 
A.ro such remarks in any way promoting our reputation? On one other 
occasion, a prominent Pittsburgh minister remarked that Tech was the 
most “un-godly” school that he had ever heard of. These remarks could be 
supplemented by many others which any of us would not like told but are 
nevertheless true.The Convention acquainted us with the needs of the foreign countries 
not only for preachers but for engineers, physicians and business men. How­
ever we are satisfied to say that the saying, “Reform the reformer, before 
you start to reform”, can be well applied and missionary work must be 
begun at once among the heathens at home. The revival of the Y. M. C. A. 
ought to bo but a small item on our program.
In an institution of our kind, one cannot be partial in such a question 
as this. Therefore, the return of the Y. M. C. A. might offer incentive for 
the founding of a branch of the Y. M. II. A. and the IC. of C, Both would 
be welcome in our estimation since we believe that the common purpose would 
be for a better Tech,
The athletic program has boon furthered. The program of our institu­
tion is changed from time to time. Should we spurn this question for th< 
common excuse that “We haven’t the time.” Surely a few minutes of a 
day of of a week can bo spared if you really want to do it.
It is also recalled that Pittsburgh churches are sparsely attended by 
Tech students. 1^ then the question of this editorial out-of-date, uncalled-for 
or unnecessary?To Uni students of Carnegie Tech there comes a special challenge. Not 
one of going to India, China or Africa to do missionary work but to start 
at once on bettering our own “heathen-solves". These facts have boon 
presented to sot you to thinking. When the time comes, which it is hoped 
will be in the near future, to organize the Y. M. (!. A., Y. M. 11. A., on the K. 
of 0. are you going to say, “The II with it”, or are you going to be 
ready to do your bit and start the ball arolling. Which would look best 
to the general public?
ARE YOU BLOWING YOUR HORN?
“At the Pitt-Georgia-Tech football game last month, the writer was 
greatly impressed with the appearance of tin? Pitt Band. All the players 
wore neat blue uniforms with yellow striped trousers, and marched with mili­
tary precision. They were well trained and gave a very favorable public 
exhibition. The writer who always has the best interests of Carnegie-Tech 
at heart, could not refrain from noting the vast contrast between the Pitt 
and Tech Bands, and is sorry to admit the odds were against the latter.
“It is the opinion of many persons that Engineering schools do not 
usually have as good athletic teams as the regular colleges or universities, 
because of the severity of the curricula which prohibit long practice sessions 
after school hours. But the same argument is not applicable to an organiza­
tion like the band, which can rehearse in the evenings.
“The writer saw and heard the Tech Band perform in the Tech-Case 
game and felt anything but proud of its straggling appearance and the im­
pression it must have made on the public, though no criticism is to be made 
of the playing. Every member of the band wore a different colored suit and 
hat. The individual or board that is responsible for the Tech Band must be 
held accountable. We would not think of putting an athletic team on the 
field without uniforms. There is no apparent reason why Tech should not 
have as well groome dand as well trained a band as any other college in the 
country. If we are to have a band at alii tmust be representative of the Tech 
standard in every particular. For next year, may we suggest that the band 
be provided for at the beginning, rather than in the middle or at the end 
of the term.”
The above is quoted from issue No. 2 of the C. I. T. Alumnus to present 
the opinion of the Alumni regarding our band. It would be a necessity now 
to ask if there is such an organization. Wonder why? An explanation will 
be offered.
This criticism from an alumnus seems just a trifle unjust at the time that 
it was written. It would be altogether fair now from a different viewpoint. 
Granted their attire was not of gold braid type and their marching not of 
military precision. Is it a question of exhibit or performance? You must 
admit they could furnish music. From Cornell we hear the popular state 
ment “Where did you get that band?” Surely, they are worthy of some credit.
Lately the handmen have fallen down on their end of the work and have 
shown vory little enthusiasm and interest. Is there any reason for this at 
titudo? The opinion is that the band should continue to thrive, since it is 
understood that they even receive laboratory credits front the institution for 
their labor, something which is not done in any other activity, athlete or non- 
athletie. On the other hand to be able to render good music is a talent 
which many would cherish and is hardly a discredit. WViy is this editorial 
necessary?
Uinois, Penn State, l’itt. and every school take pride in and shout the 
praise of their band. Of course we would like to do that also but unless 
evidences are forthcoming soon we will have to say that this is also one of 
our former organizations:
A new bandmaster has heen appointed who is deeply interested in the 
work and is spending most of his spare moments to establish a real band, 
Are you going to keep your horn polished or let it rust and tarnish? The 
band is as essential as any of our athletic teams. Are you wasting your 
time in receiving good instruction and receiving credit for it. The manage­
ment requests new material to come out and the old men to “stick” out,
NOTICE.
To Federal Board Students:—
It has been arranged that the East Liberty Branch Y. M. C. A. can 
give all Federal Board Students one year’s membership without any cost to 
the student. All that is necessary to join the Association is to fill out the 
application which can be procured at the office of Dean Tarbell.
If you have not received a membership fill out the application and bring 
it or mail it to me, and I will issue your yearly membership ticket. Please 
arrange to do this at once so that you may be getting the benefit of what 
we have to offer here. Yours very truly,
S. A. ARMSTRONG, Membership Secretary. Y. M. C. A., East Liberty Branch.
PRESIDENT RECEIVES 
LETTER.
(Continued from page 1.) 
most put me out of the running. I 
almost gave up several times. The 
Judgment was held yesterday, and 
again I am happy to inform you that 
1 was awarded a medal. Eleven med­
als were given, the two designs rank­
ing one and two respectively, being 
given a prize. My design ranks seven. 
This competition has just about drain­
ed my vitality, and I am taking it easy 
for a couple of days beforo starting 
the current Project,
I am allowed two years in which to 
gain eight required values to complete 
the course. Owing to my good luck, 
1 have gained four values in three 
months. I shall try hard to gain the 
rest this year so that I can be free 
to go to Rome next year.
1 have received a kind invitation to 
reside at the American Academy in 
Rome during the year 1920-21. There­
fore, if 1 can clean up my values at 
the Ecole des Beaux Arts—and what 
is more difficult—-if I can save enough 
out of my allowance to make the 
change, I shall proceed to Rome and 
do some research work there under 
Mr. Philip Gorham* Steven.
I shallflbe loath to leave Paris, how­
ever, for in spite of physical discom­
forts, caused by the war, it is truly a 
paradise for me. It’s inspiring atmo­
sphere is doing much for me—though 
I must confess it makes one’s efforts 
seem ridiculous, when one regards 
what can and has been done,
Pleaso remember me kindly to any­
one you would deem interested,
HARRY STERNFELI).
43 Rue de Boulainvilllers.---------P----------
Put that snap-shot in the Thistle Box.
ALPHANNU.ODSIN ERM
SERVICES OF H. J. McCORXLE
WHEREAS, It is realized that Mr. 
Henry .1. McCorkle has been largely 
instrumental in fostering, promoting, 
and encouraging not only the Harris­
burg Clan of the Alumni Federation, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, but 
all Carnegie Clans throughout the country—and 
WHEREAS, It is realized that the 
Alumni Federation have had in Mr. 
McCorkle a tireless, conscientious and 
efficient worker, a staunch and true 
friend at Headquarters, a man with 
the interests of the Alumni and the 
Schools at heart—and 
WHEREAS, Mr. McCorkle has 
tendered his resignation to become ef­
fective January first, Nineteen hun­
dred and twenty, in order that he may 
take up important duties elsewhere,— 
BE IT RESOLVED, By the Har­
risburg Clan, on the ninth day of De­
cember, Nineteen hundred and nine­
teen, in regular meeting assembled, 
that an expression of appreciation, of 
thanks and of esteem to be extended 
to Mr. McCorkle in recognition of the 
splendid services he has rendered to 
the Alumni and to the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology—and 
BE IT RESOLVED, That the best 
wishes for continued success, prosper 
it y, and happiness in his new field of 
endeavor be extended to Mr. McCor­
kle by the members of the Harris­
burg Clan—and 
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, 
To spread these resolutions upon the 
minutes of the Harrisburg Clan and 
copies be sent to Mr. McCorkle, The 
Tartan, and The Alumnus.
RITCHIE LAWR1E, JR.,
Chairman, Resolutions 
Committee.
KATHRYN M. HO AY, 
Secretary, Harrisburg Clan.
---------&---------Put that snap-shot in the Thistle Box.
See Daily Papers for Information of 
our 25% Clearance Sale.
GOODLOW’S GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool—¦
Of finest Make—
Durable—
Lasting—
Of latest Styles—
Wonderful values—
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlow’s Good Clothes—
Opportunity’s
Offer of Style-perfection—
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them— 
Ladies admire Men who wear them— 
Others envy them—
This is your chance—
Here is your selection—
Even now awaiting your visit—
SERVICE FIRST !
PITTSBURGH HONORED BY
PHI EPSILON PI.
(Continued from page 1.)
Pi men. Judges Joseph Buffington 
and W. H. S. Thompson were speak­
ers at the Wednesday afternoon ses­
sion.
Many social events were scheduled, 
including a smoker at Zeta chapter 
house on Sunday evening, December 
28, a banquet at the William Penn o,n 
Monday evening, a theater party at 
the Davis, followed by a dinner djance 
at the Port Pitt Hotel on Tuesday 
evening, and a formal ball at the Wil­
liam Penn on New Year’s Eve, at 
which the Grand March was led by 
.Chancellor and Mrs. S. B. McCormick. 
A buffet luncheon was held at mid­
night, and many novelties were staged 
in celebration of the advent of 1920.
Among the important business 
transacted by the fraternity was the 
^hoice of Boston for next year’s con­
vention, the election of national offi­
cers, and the granting of a charter at 
the University of Florida as the only 
successful candidate out of a score 
of petitioning fraternities. A beauti­
ful loving cup was presented by the 
Grand Council to Eta Chapter, Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania, for its high 
standing during the past school year. 
This cup is awarded annually on the 
basis of the chapter’s standing in 
scholastic work and school activities 
and will become the permanent pos­
session of the first chapter winning it 
three times.
The visiting delegates from various 
sections of the country were unani- 
mou sin their praise of the arrange­
ments that had been made for them 
for their convenience and comfort 
during their four-day stay in Pitts­
burgh. A vote of hearty thanks was 
extended to the hostess chapters, Phi 
of Tech, Zeta of Pitt, and Theta of 
Penn State.
---------Ct----------NEWMAN CLUB MEETING.
A special meeting of the Newman 
Club was held last Sunday afternoon. 
Matters pertaining to the establish­
ment of a social settlement in St. 
Paul’s Chapel on Parkview Ave, lower 
Oakland .were discussed. Classes are 
to be formed among the younger chil­
dren of the neighborhood. These 
These classes will be held Saturday 
afternoons. Later in the year classes 
fo rthe older people of the district 
will be held in the evening.
The monthly dance held in the 
Knights of Columbus Hall, Monday, 
January 12 was very well attended by 
both Pitt* and Tech students. The 
affair was quite a success. The next 
regular meeting will be held the last 
Sunday of the month in St. Paul’s 
High School, Craig St.
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
SUNDAY, JANUARY 18th, 8 P. M.
STUDENTS’ NIGHT AT
SIXTH PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
DR. J. ROSS STEVENSON OF PRINCETON 
has a special message.
Dr. Stevenson is one of the foremost speakers in the country. 
Don't miss this opportunity.
Tartan Staff Meeting
An important meeting of the 
Editorial Staff will be held on 
Thursday afternoon at 4:30 in 
the office, Room 162 Design. 
Candidates for Assistant Ath­
letic Editor should report at 
this time as well as candidate 
for. Industries, representative. 
The following must report if 
they wish to continue work 
with the staff. Otherwise their 
name shall be crossed from the 
list.
H. C. Haldeman,
R. G. Welsh,
L. A. McCardell,
J. R. Barrow,
J. R. Rudisill,
L. E. EMERICK,
Editor.
A
NY tobacco — every tobacco—tastes better in a W D C 
. Pipe. Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected 
1' rench briar makes it so. Add to this the supercraftsman­
ship of the Demuth workers, and you’ll not wonder that we 
claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. AsTc any 
good dealer.
M^e DEMUTH 8t CO.. NEW YORK
a'eld’T l!eGuTi M!KueT 's srcu hrhuT
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LE880N8 CLA88 AND PRIVATE
JACQUES’ DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBE8 BELL PHONE
iiniiiiiiiiiiiiüiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiüiiiiiiiiiiiiimeiiiwniiiiiiiiiirtiiMiiiiirtÿ
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Broad and Sheridan Ave.
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
Éllll!lll!lIIIIHinilll!!llillllI!IIlllIiH9IIUUIIIUIUIll!lini)[1IIIHinHlliilllllllllllll!lll!llllllil!llltliUllllll!lll!i!lll!l!llll!ll!!IHIIlll!l!!ill[llllllII!lli;il!l!ll|l!!!U!l|iH!llHIU!!UU[UlilllUI!lii 
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
BATTERY
“Exide"
SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1920.PAGE THREE.
There is always | 
a reason why! “1
MURADS are made of 100 % pure Turkish 
tobacco — the world’s most famous tobacco for 
cigarettes—grown about the Black Sea, in the 
Orient.
MURADS are also the world’s largest selling 
high-grade Turkish cigarette—and their greatest 
increase in sales in any year was in 1919.
Now don’t you agree, there is always a 
reason ?
\ It is true that “ordinary’ cigarettes cost a trifle less.
|| Judge for yourself—!
MakKqFtiieHiohestCfoide'lwtish. 
and E^plianG^nilesmllieMèrid
Grace Church
(Reformed)RAYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET8 FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. SERVICES:Sunday School—9:45 A. M.Morning Worship—11_A. M._Social hour and Luncheon for stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
i BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 5 X CHURCH -
^ Bellefield and Fifth Avenues
X, Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.,•j* Minister.
.j« Preaching Services 11 and 8.
X. Sunday school at 10.»j* Christian Endeavor at 7.
X. We want the Tech boys to at-.j. tend our services and learn to •J* know us as the congregation oi M "Friendly People»” A heartywelcome awaits you.I
rcTiriUi!
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
A8CENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant.Sunday Servioes, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men’s Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.All Students Genuinely Welcome.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P. M. Pew 68. Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu­dent.*.
OAKLAND EXPRESS 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Bell Phonea 578 & 9169 Schenley 
P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and 8hlppe<J.
Bell—Sclienley 389
MISS O’LEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANING—REPAIRING 
Ladies’ and Men’s Clothes, Carpets
Work Guaranteed and Turned Out on Short Notico.
Will call for all pressing and cleaning at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland)¦DTn'T’C'DTriJ f!tr -DA
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.—Adv.
THE CAMPUS ANVIL
Our brown derby contest must have 
thrown out a wicked scare into the 
bunch last week. The Campus was as 
free from a “boner” as Skibo is from 
a coffee berry. And of course with 
all this.leap year stuff a guy has to 
watch his step. However, we hope 
to present some one with the nobody- 
home crown next week.* * *
The stuff that dreams are made of: 
Mince pie,
Welsh rarebit,
Beanery fish.* * *
The Weekly Gamble.
Getting your laundry back at a 
fraternity house.* * *
Dear Anvil Ed.
Can you give me any dope on how 
to do these new jazz dances? GUS.
Yes, Gus, about all you’ll need is 
a close shave.
Ponies,
Famous Aids.
Hot air,
Moonlight,
Raisins.
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
EVIDENCE
Muriel Loves me 
How do I know 
A gossipy daisy 
Told me so
I love Muriel 
How can I know 
A dog-eared check book 
Has told me so.
—J udge.* * *
Too bad we always pick on Tiny 
but then we got to pick on somebody. 
You’ve got to hand it to him though 
for the way he treated the boys who 
stayed here for Christmas.* * *
OH! LOOK, GIRLS!
Most modest of all lasses 
Is little Dolly fry.
For Dolly wears smoked glasses 
To shield her naked eye.* * ?
A BROWN DERBY POSSIBILITY
An old lady after waiting in a con­
fectionery store for some time grew 
impatient at the lack of service. Final­
ly she rapped sharply on the counter, 
“Here, young lady,” she shrilled, “who 
waits on the nuts?”
Here’s one reason why we’ll never 
graduate from Boston Tech. This is 
the way Mary’s lamb looks over there 
as a local poet has it:
’Tis said that Mary had a lamb— 
a wonderful possession. He did not 
wildly run abroad in search of self 
expression. He chased his little 
owner’s heels in blind and loving fer­
vor. He liked to proffer and parade 
his willingness to serve her. He also 
liked to keep in rather constant ex­
hibition his fleece of alabaster tone 
and purified condition.
One day Miss Mary chose for her 
,attractive destination the public in­
stitution for initial education; and 
yet the lamb would not consent to 
tether or detention but set himself 
against the rules in ruthless contra­
vention. The faculty evicted him in 
anger weak and mortal but still he 
lingered with his baa outside the 
schoolhouse portal.
This roused the curiosity according 
to the story of growing minds in that 
extremely famed informatory. “What 
is the source and origin,” they asked, 
“of the affection the lamb so obvious­
ly pours in Mary’s dear direction?” 
“I think,” the faculty replied, “that 
thus it may be stated: Attachments 
flourish rapidly when love’s recipro­
cated.”----------D----------
AMONG OTHER COLLEGES.
A united campaign for a $5,000,000 
endowment fund is being made by 
nine colleges of Wisconsin under an 
organization called Wisconsin Col­
leges Associated. The group includes 
the privately supported institutions, 
both co-educational and female. State 
and national attention is focused upon 
this striking development in educa­
tional finances. The U. S. Bureau of 
Education is officially endorsing and 
assisting. This revolutionary evolu­
tion demands attention because of the 
possibility of larger application. Ac­
cording to the U. S. Bureau of Edu 
cation, there are 93 publicly support­
ed and 77 privately supported insti­
tutions of learning in the U. S. About 
62 per cent of the college students in 
the country attend voluntarily sup­
ported colleges, and the private col­
leges have about 68 per cent of the 
educational funds of the country at 
their disposal. This includes, of
course, such schools as Harvard, Yale, 
Printfeton, Cornell and Stanford.* * *
Three Slav universities in Central 
Ik.rope, Prague, Krakow and Lem- 
burg, bo fore the war, and now thir­
teen universitiesJn the same territory 
t striking demonstration of the 
contrast between the educational pol­
icy of Austria-Hungary and the new 
Slav Government.* * *
Phillips University has recently 
passed a new ruling requiring all 
freshmen to wear freshmen caps.* * *
Michigan State purchased a twen­
ty-acre tract of ground upon which 
site the new university hospital will 
be erected.* * *
Columbia has recently acquired 
three new buildings which will be 
used as dormitories. The names which 
have been given to these University 
buildings are the names of famous 
English schools, Harrow, Eaton and 
Rugby. The two latter ones will 
probably be used as dormitories for 
women.* * *
Syracuse University has added 
swimming to the list of inter-frater­
nity athletics.* * *
Nebraska State is planning on add­
ing from 40 to 50 new instructors to 
faculty next year.* * *
Michigan is making plans for a 
new campus theatre. The building is 
to cost $250,000. The fund already 
has been started.* * *
Twenty-one men were eligible for 
football letters at Dartmouth this 
year. The prospects for a good team 
next year are very good.
The salaries of the professors at 
Oberlin have been increased 50 per 
cent. The increase will date back to 
September.? * *
Ohio State has published a direc­
tory of the student body. The book 
contains 6,600 names.
The Sophomores at Franklin and 
Marshall have agreed to wear Sopho­
more hats to distinguish themselves 
from the rest of the students.>t< * *
The members of the Masonic Lodge 
at the University of Alabama are 
formulating plans for the construc­
tion of a Masonic Homo on the 
campus. All the lodges in the state 
have very heartily co-operated with 
the plan and it is likely that soon the
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE
Masons of the University will have a new home.* * *
At Denison there is a “Greater 
Denison” project on foot which per­
haps will materialize in building of 
a new library, laboratories, and two 
girls dormitories in the near future. 
The new buildings will be erected on 
fraternity row, and will commence as 
soon as the fraternities take up the 
offer made them. Denison is also per­
fecting a new and increased salary 
scale for the professors.? *
Muskingum College has just com­
pleted its new Gymnasium and it is 
now in use. Two hundred thousand 
dollars has been approprited for a 
new executive building for which the 
excavating has already been done. 
Other buildings have been promised 
the college and a new athletic field. 
With these material improvements 
Muskingum has a very promising fu­
ture.* * *
Miami University is putting on a 
campaign for a new hospital. The 
medical reports for October show 
that there were an average of 27 
treatments given daily and that the 
present facilities are inadequate.* * *
At the fall election of the Wesleyan 
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the na­
tional scholarship fraternity, five can­
didates for initiation were chosen.* * *
The Radio Society of M. I. T. has 
recently installed a new long wave 
receiving apparatus, with which it ex­
pects to receive signals from distant 
stations such as Panama and Lyons, 
France, as well as many of the larger 
stations along the coast. There are 
now three receiving sets being used 
and members of the society stand reg­
ular watch every night. They are all 
commercial operators, and, working 
in turn, stand watch from 6 o’clock in 
the evening until 2 o'clock in the 
morning. The society expects in the 
near future to become a member of 
the American Radio Relay League.* * *
Tho co-eds 'of the University of 
Cincinnati have a Man-Haters Club. 
Two girls wore recently requested to 
resign on the ground that they had 
not lived up to the ideals of tho or­
ganization. After the business of the 
club had boon transacted, an interest­
ing paper on “Why Wo Hate Men 
Until we Have a Dato” was road by ono of tho mombors.
Rochester Univorsity intonds to in­
stall a complete radio station, by 
means of which communication may 
be established with eastern and mid­
dle-western colleges and experiment 
stations. Tho installation of tho sta­
tion will place Rochester among tho 
pioneer eastern cologos to experiment 
with this most modern moans of com­munication.* # *
U. of P. co-od freshmen aro re­
quired to carry powder for the upper­
classmen and for each violation thoy 
are lined ono nickel.
Tho first picture of the University 
of Kentucky and of tho city of Lor- 
ington ever taken from tho sky was 
taken Novombor 8 by Todd Croon, of 
Lagrange, senior in the College of 
Agriculture, Mr. Green holds tho po­
sition of snap-shot editor for tho Uni­
versity year book and this picture will appear in tho annual.
Mr. Green asked for and was given 
the privilege to fly over tho city in an 
aeroplane, being used there by tho 
government aeronautic demonstra­tion.>H * *
Unless something unforeseen hap­
pens, there will be no R. O. T. C. at 
Rensselaer. Lt. Col. E. W. Putney,
C. A., who was in charge of the R. O. 
T. C. there, has recommended that 
military activities be dropped.
The authorities of the Institute 
wished to have either a Signal Corps 
unit or a Motor Transport unit and 
were willing to accept the Coast Ar­
tillery unit in conjunction with either 
of these. The officials at Washington, 
however, offered the Coast Artillery 
unit alone, and this was thought un­
suited to the Institute courses.* * *
Flannel shirts and cordurorys will be worn hereafter by the male Juniors and Seniors of Idaho University for “economy and comfort”.* * *
More than one hundred and fifty students of the University of Penn­sylvania are giving at least an hour a week of their time in social serv­ice work of the Christian Association.Some are leading small clubs of boys, others teach classes of foreign­ers the English language and still others have gymnasium classes.“Social and religious organizations in all sections of the city are receiv­ing the aid of Pennsylvania men,” says a statement of the Christian As­sociation. “The University is becom­ing known in many districts for the ^ood which it accomplishes in these lines.”----------D----------
Put that snap-shot in the Thistle Box.
----------Kf----------
ART NEWS.
Prof. Rainsford, dean of the School 
of Architecture, has resumed his dut­
ies after an extended absence on ac­
count of illness.+ + *
The comimttee appointed to make 
preparations for the annual Design 
Ball is hard at work, and some an­
nouncements as to date and character 
arc expected soon.* * *
Latest reports have it that K. E. V. 
is “missing in action.”
The students of the Division of the 
Arts ran their semi-weekly dansant 
last Wednesday afternoon. Many of 
the familiar faces were missed.
Put that snap-shot in the Thistle Box.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14, 1920.THE TARTÁNÌ>AGE FOUR.
FOURTEEN TECH
DELEGATES ATTEND.STUDENT CONVENTION.
(Continued from page 1.) 
in turn been one of the principal con- ] 
tributary causes of its growing fruit- . 
fulness, has been the evolution of its ( 
plan to further the scientific and pro- , 
gressive study of missions. As a re­
sult of much experimentation in the , 
pathway of its promotion of mission- j 
ary reading and discussion during the 
early years of its history, it -was lead j 
in the year 1894 to establish a mission . 
study department and to set apart a , 
specialist to develop a comprehensive ' 
missionary study program.
“At the time there were less than . 
a score of groups of young men and 
women in the colleges engaged in 
what might properly be called mis- ! 
sionary study, and these were work- : 
ing apart from each other, without a ! 
concerted plan and without expert 
guidance. In contrast, hint year, in , 
the student field of North America, 
47,006 students in nearly 3,000 classes ( 
were engaged in the study of mission- , 
ary subjects under trained leadership. , 
The number in such classes today is 
nearly twice what it was ten years , 
ago. The Young Men’s and Young . 
Women's Christian associations and , 
the church boards have had a large j 
and valuable part in making possible 
this marked advance.
“The character of the leadership of 
this work has steadily improved, as a ( 
result of normal classes in the various 
colleges and at the summer training 
conferences, of the cooperation of ( 
hundreds of colleges and seminary , 
•professors, and, above all, of the wise j 
guidance by the educational secreta- ' 
ries of the movement.
Financial Forcc.
“From the beginning, the movement 1 
has been a financial force for missions. ¦ 
A generation ago the combined mis­
sionary gifts of the colleges and sem- 1 
inaries were less than $5,000 a year. 
As a result of constant emphasis on 
the importance of missionary giving, , 
the gifts of university, college and 1 
seminary constituencies of the two 
countries have increased year by year 
until last year they amounted to a 
little over $300,000. It is a striking 
fact that during the war period, when 
the number of students was greatly 
diminished, the scale of missionary 
giving was augmented.
“This is all the more remarkable 
when it is recalled that during the 
last three years of the war period 
the American students gave such large 
sums in connection with waht is 
known as the Student Friendship 
Fund, the gifts for this purpose, not 
to mention other war gifts, being over 
$200,000 in the year 1916-17, $1,295,000 
in the year 1917,18, and over $2,300,-
000 in the year 1918-19. Scores of uni­
versities and colleges have been en­
couraged by the movement to adopt 
the plan of supporting entirely or in 
largo part their own representative on 
the foreign field.
“Never were so many other col­
leges planning to undertake similar 
obligations. Some of them, such as 
Yale, Princeton and Oberlin, maintain 
(intire mission stations or establish­
ments, each having on its staff SUti 
cral missionaries. The giving in some 
colleges and schools has been so gen­
erous and even sacrificial that it has 
put l,o shame the missionary giving 
in the churches. In some institutions 
the undergraduates have given on the 
aVerage of $.10 to $20 each per annum. 
Were the giving of the ehurchos on 
the same scale the financial problem 
of missions would bo solved.
Lesson from War.
“The great war revealed as never 
before 111«' limitless capacities of the 
students of our generation. There 
were disclosed within them latent 
powers of courageous and unselfish 
effort, of capacity for extreme sacri­
fice, of ability to lose themselves in 
great cliuses, of power of initiative, 
leadership and cooperation, which, if 
released and related to the great plans 
of Christ for all mankind, would make 
possible an absolutely unprecedented 
and hitherto unbelievable expansion 
of His kingdom.
“The missionary program alone fur­
nishes an adequate outlet for these 
newly disclosed and well nigh bound­
less eneregies. It is not surprising 
that the strongest students, under 
the spell of the attraction of hard 
things, have been dedicating them­
selves in increasing numbers to the 
missionary career.
“It has been the custom of the 
Student Volunteer Movement to hold 
a great international convention once 
in each student gener of approxi­
mately four years.
Previous Conventions.
“The chain of these gatherings is as 
follows:
Cleveland ... .1891, attended by 680
i Detroit .............1894, attended by 1,325
’ Cleveland .... 1898, attended by 2,221
! Toronto ..........1902, attended by 2,957
I Nashville . . . .1906, attended by 4,235
PENN AND ro'MKSTOWN AVENUES
After a hearty 
meal, you’ll 
avoid that 
stuffy feeling 
if you chew 
a stick of
CUT DOWN YOUR 8HOE EXPENSE by buying better Bhoen. You will find them far cheaper to wear than tjhoeo which are not no high In quality.
Our new modclo for FALL and WINTER are now In, and they are full of onap—Juut oultable for the college man.
WRIGLEY5
1) THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
jK Take their shoes 
¡1 Bellefield
| Shoe Repairing Co,
\[[ Across from the Library
Other benefits: to teeth, 
breath, appetite, nerves. 
That’s a good deal to 
get for 5 cents!
Sealed Tight—Kept Right
it M JWRIGLEVSTH
The Flavor Lasts
Right trainino- win.s the race.
l&fB/S/8/S/SJS/i5/13/Z9/B/3/i5US/Si3&nSJQJSJSIS3/S/5ifi/Bf3Lfj TRANSITS AND LEVEL8?1 ALL SUPPLIES FOR THEDRAFTING ROOM
-aa--
Dixon s 
Eldorado is 
the choice of 
the world’s greatest 
engineers. It should be 
r yours now.
That’ s as true in 
life as on the 
cinders.
Made in 17 leads, one for every need or pref-// erence. ^Engineer«' Equipment, Instru­ment« of Precision, Blue Print and Drown Print Pnpcra and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
the master ftwmô pencil'
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddaby’s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. JV1. Every School DayWALL PAPER 
Wholesale and Retail 
Books furnished Paperhangcrs 
and Dealers.
Picture Framing a Specialty 
3618 FIFTH AVENUE 
At Atwood
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel
I AM SERVING
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c
--------------At--------------
STANDARD RESTAURANT 
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
iiiiniiiiiiuiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuiininiiiiinniniiinimijiiuuiiuiiiiiiiinimuiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiHiiiniiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiuiiiiiiiiniiiiiigiiiiiinuiiiiiuiiiiiinii 
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENT’S LUNCH §
3807 FIFTH AVE. §
BiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiB
............................................................................................................
DON’T MISS THE
BIG HOUSEWARMING
OAKLAND COMMUNITY HOUSE
3904 Forbes Street.
MONDAY, JANUARY 12............COMMUNITY NIGHT. |
TUESDAY, JANUARY 13.................STUDENT NIGHT, jj
"A GOOD TIME FOR EVERYONE.” |
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES 
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap­
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty 
Written guarantee with each 
machine.
Victor and Fox agency.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office
Phone Court 866.
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
sûiaiiiuiiiiuiiiuiiiuiiiiuiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiuniiiiiuuiiuiiiiuiiiiuiiiuuiiiuiiiiuiiUiiiiiiiiuiiiiuuiiiiiiiiuiuiuiuiiiiiiiUtiuiiuiiimmiiuiiiiuiiuiiutiiiiuuiiuuiimiuiiuiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQiimii&iiiiuiQiiiiis
