VOL. 30. NO. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25* 1935
RIVAL CÁMPS TENSE AS THANKSGIVING GAME NEAR§~
School Hails Anniversary of Carnegie's B
Plaid Rested 
For Bird Day 
Tilt With Pitt
Loser of Battle Drops 
To Cellar Position 
In Pittsburgh
PITT IS FAVORED 
OVER SKIBO TEAM
Game in Schedey- Stadium 
Will Close Football Days 
Of 7 Tartan Seniors
By Ed Mulligan
Fresli from a 6-0 victory over the 
Cornhushers in the game, last 
week in the Schenley - oval. Pitt’s hard-fighting and heavily favored leam meets Carnegie’s Scots in the Tlmuksgiving struggle, -which has been an annual event for the past
In holding the Pi thers and pushing over fci few! quick scores, the iglily touted Oak- . land club Will be forced to accept ' the bottom position.
Carnegie hps the advantage of .a two weeks1 rest . going Into the game. Since the. afternoon spent at Worcester two weeks'ago Sat­urday, they have been drilling Pitt plays and Generally marshalline 1 forces for the. „big" day. Although 1 Pitt put In a grueling'p. m. 'last week, the Nebraska team left i no ; major injuries on tlie^Pjtt squad.Bandour, Pairlck“^9he'iiloaky, and ' all the boys should- be . ready- to show some tricky -running and ..all —Aev trimmingfl;WJti^iefcjyJio.-.has - been going, great .guns ...in the ‘backfleld,-seems yt'o--be?'the- -only1 Panlber who definitely'.'will not be By uniform. Patrick, Pitt’s out- (Conllnued on Page Five.)
SAE Is Guilty 
Of Violating 
Rushing Jiules
Pres. Bender Claims His 
House Was Given 
“Rotten Deal”
Sigma Alpha' Epsilon' fraternity was found guilty of violation of the rushing rules by Interfra­ternity Council • Saturday morning and was fined fifty dollars. The charges were" brought ¿y Delta Epsilon. The fraternity must drop , the man who was ilegally pledged and will not be allowed to partici- 1 pate-In- anyr-'-liitermural.activities. Failure to pay the fine will result in suspension.' ' •
Arthur Hughes it was found pledged Delta Upgilon and later.
signifying that he wished to severe i connections with DU. He. then! Pledged SAB and DU brought! charges. • ....
I ' Counter charges against DU were |, threatened by Vincent Bender, SAE representative: But none were made. Mr. Bender stated’that . there had been a misinterpretation °f the time rule that a semester i must elapse before a man may be{ pledged after breaking a formerj Pledge. Hughes was pledge at the! beginning of the semester which| was within the letter of the law. ••In speaking of the charges, Ben* der said, “We consider it a. rotten { deal against, our fraternity, by the (Continued’oh Page-Five;) '• v
Important Articles. 
In This Issue v
WifnksBlvinif I 
»rima ri
Grid .Coritejrt «I-l--
Cr«k Nol¿* ~ :------------------
E iciorl -_
IS,'r:_._-
S
Greeks Begin 
Annual Rush 
Next Week
Fraternities Paint And 
Decorate Houses For 
Contact Period
CLOSED RUSHING 
STARTS ON DEC. 2
Fraternity men this week.will be 
putting finishing toucnes and mak­
ing last minute changcs 011 their 
hunting equipment for Carnegie's 
great open season — the rushing 
period —• which begins next Mon­
day. Preparations in the form of 
painting and redecorating the 
nouseB, the addition of new fur­
niture, and the iustruction of in­
experienced men in the fiDC art of 
rushing have been going on for 
^ome time, but it will be tbiB week 
before the Greeks will be .able to 
put their best foot forward.
Optimism everywhere is the key­
note among all fraternity men, ac­
cording to Interfraternity council 
president, Delos Branhing ’36. Mr. 
Branning also said that the .fresh-
i this > Ínteresr have shown a' great u fraternities before
be unable to join. a - fraternity because of financial reaapne; Tlfe number of fraternities rushing this year will -also be .less, than in the past,' thereby increasing ,the,.nma; bei* - which-~-wlll—¿jilädge ¿at-each: house. . ... ..
/Phe^rushlng season •' will be ;4i-
>f the restricted period, which will last uhtil'December 6. Dates with the rushecs during this time will be completely under -the jurlsdlc* tion of the Interfraternity council. No-fraternity alone may make a date with a freshman as all' dates have been previously arranged by the. council. On December 6 fra­ternity men may begin . nmklng dates for the open rushing season which starts December 10 and con­tinues through' December 15.
December 10 marks the first day that fraternities may extend
which there shall be 110 communica­tion between the fraternity men and the. freshmen. Following the silence period will be open rushing again, which will prevail for the remainder of the semester.
Dean €, B. Connelly 
Tells of Original 
Intentions for Sckooi
Is Only Living Member 
Of “Plan and Scope” 
Committee
Has Spent His Life 
Fòr The Students
Trade School Perpetuates 
Name of This Famous. 
Industrial Educator
Dean Clifford Brown Connelly is one of Ihe very few men livIng:to- day who remembers the original
and - body, has' b'een singularly de­voted to the school ever since its founding. - 
.iftr. - Connelly. was . one of the three.members of the original com­mittee “on plan 'and scope." In go­ing about their work thtBjeonimIt- tee conducted a series ofJlOl lec­tures within a local radius of 30 miles, to sound out the attitude of the people In respect to'the -found­ing of this school. They sought io.flnd what the people wanted dud when their campaign was done one, and over'7,000 applications were re­ceived, they set about planning a
pie's applications.
' Mi-. Connelly-says. “Our coi tee., subdivided the Carnegie hicnli*-Schools Into foui*, dli heMs. - .They'were;-,the. Schc_ Sclenc.e..ûndTëçhnologÿ1ttië'Schoôl of 'Mechànics^ànd -. Artfaajq.'y tbè •Sclftn^Tor:'Fàë‘ranaT^i^irë'd--Arts? and the ' • Women’s industrial School:^' •- Our ; purpose- ' • in^ ~*do-. ing this - was " to have thetilles of the courses of instruc­tion directly appeal to the widely diverging elementmunity- which they were intended to reach, and to allow for the feel­ing of'prejudice which might ex* iet'among, these schools. We felt that, each of these four schools would‘attract to-its doors different types of individuals with different
ferent degrees of intelligence and capacity for training.”
Mr. Connelly is universally rec- ognized as one of the foremost in­dustrial educators of the country. He has been connected with nu­merous schools in .the western Pennsylvania district.'/.
He has always in his work: for this school tried to evolve a tern of education in accordance with the Carnegie idea, which would make its appeal at once to the worker In Industry, the em­ployer, tlit sociologist, and the ed­ucator. ________________________
Torch—Lig-h^ 
Parade Begin 
Pitt Pep Rally
Followers of Tartai 
Gather in Carnegie 
Bowl Wednesday
NUMERALS RUSE 
TO FEATURE EVENT
Freshmen, Sophomores. Wil| 
Battle for Possession ;• 
Of Class Emblems
• •Toi chiIiBht' parade, .• ,nu 
rush, tug-of-war,' KUtJe baud 
cheers,- songs and all 
with' a'pep .'.roily-, will program tor the get-together fore the Pitt game..-On'-Wednesday uight at seven,; Carnegie’s - suppor t era, will gather’ in the ;VCuruegt£ bowl, for the biggest football rally of the seesi 
Messr the Depai Lion will
¦tha£»;go0Ìjj 
be ;pn ;tb¿
r me uiggesc lootuaii rany laeson.
a. -Risedorph and-'Moses ot artment of Physical-Bduccy. 11 supervise the' 'progretfi
freshmen.-, Bophomore. '•numeral^ rush: an event that after'being in­troduced three-.years. ago, ' Js.: bç bomlng.^a campus tradition.'vThrImpoertoâ^Pfnsthe'plsbe.xre£TjlfftIoii3^pi will be the sophomores' last chance to. humble'-. the -plebes, - and the freshmen’s last chance to get eVen with the class (hat. is supposed to be the bane of their , existence.
- The conflict will he staged In the same manner as iu past'years. One sophomore, surrounded by .the re­
starting slgnal. the freshman class will descend upon ; the group and endeavor by fair or foul means to CApture the numerals. Following the numerals rush will "be a tug- of-war between the two classes.
To get the student body and the team In. the proper frame'of mind for the football« game is the pur­pose of the pep rally. With the
fires,- the .leaders, will attempt; to lii6tair'in: the student'body ;such. a spirit that will cause Carnegie’s cheers at the game to drown out those of 'Pitt. Everyone Is urged to attend the rally and show the
Carnegie victory Thursday.
Alpha Kappa Psi? Beta Sigma RhoyScohell 
forhes Hall Wi n Scholarship Trophies
Scholastic Ratings of 32 
Campus Organizations 
Are Made Known
.- With' a scholastic ' average of 2.3703 Beta Sigma Rho social fra­ternity was presented the Frater­nity Scholarship*cup this.morning at the Carnejgie Centeuuial Exer­cises by acting president Charles Watkins.
The cup donated by the Faculty Club to the Men’s Dormitory hav­ing the highest factor average was awarded to Scobell Hall which ‘maintained an average 'of 2.1272.-;..Among the Women’s dormitories a factor of 2.474 gave to Forbes Hall the Women’s Scholarship Cup.Alpha Kappa Psi ranked first among the seven sororities! in. the College of Fine Arts. . The trophy TMsa-aw-arded-i-for -a.schoJastt.aver­age of 2.663. This average was the highest attained, by any of the wlu- ners in the four groups. ;
The cup for. the highest frater­nity standing . "was donated ¿two years ago by the all-college honor: aiy Bociety,- Phi Kappa. Pal.. r'A previous trophy was. permanently awarded 16 Beta Sigma Rho when that organization won '.the cup three times. Last year Sigma Nu topped the fraternity 31at. - — -Alpha-Kappa Psi sprorlty, highest
award for. five consecutive years. This trophy is not permanently awarded. - ¦Last vear the Dormitory cup for. men was won bv Boss Hall. . Al­though the cup has been awardedDeans Mary Watson Green and Arthur W. Tarbell, pictured with 
the four schelarehlp awards pretented at (he. centennial celebration to­
day All scholarship decisions.pata through their offices.. • •
OUR FOUNDER
Turkey Dance 
On Wed nesday
Jack Mason’s Orchestra1 
Will Furnish Music
On Wednesday evening. Novem­ber 27, the^Annual Thanksgiving dance will be held in Thistle.Hall. The feature of the evening will
key dinners' at Sklbo lnn any time during the Thanksgiving recess. These prizes will be awarded dur­ing the'donee and the winning numbers, corresponding to the check-room stubs,', will be drawn from a hat. Many of the students witnessed a large live turkey on the campus' last Thursday, and this same bird will be dressed anu Swarded'.' -
Music will be furnished by one of •the-campus favorites. Jack Ma­son and his orchestra. Upperclass- men will remember Jack Mason as one of the orchestras that played
Pittsburgh, and at many of the fraternity houses.’ Dancing will begin at nine and
Fraternities 
Print Booklet
Çopies Will Be Given To 
: Freshman and Parents
• Inferfraternily co- ncll'a new handbook on fraternity life will be. put into circulation-on Novem­ber .23. according to. Editor-In- .chief -AMn...fluraha...The..booklet which -will be dedicated to the freshman class, Is being published for the purpose of explaining to the freshmen* and-their parents what fraternities me^n In the cam? pus life.of the students.--- . • ^Copie of 'the.'haudtook will be distributed, to all freshtnen and. in addition are to' be -Bent to the parents of every.- plebe living out of.town.. iFraternity men believe that.the principal reason why many out-of-town' men'' do not join - fra­ternities is that they do not -have the opportunity to discuss the mat; ter .with their parents. According­ly. thls vear the'pamphlet .is being
eluding the - cost fit becoming
Begin Eighth 
Campaign For 
Carnegie Fund
Graduates and StudentB 
Asked to Contribute 
On Dollar Day
Carnegie Day marks the eighth anniversary of Dollar :Day. Since 6,200 students have graduated dur*
present total collected since 1927 Is 12.311.85.: The contribution for this year is higher To far than past years. There has been $740 col-
graduates. students support the endowment fund this year as In tht paBt. The success of the two for one plan offered by the Carnegie Corporation depends upon everyone's support, dM turn In your dollars to the Alumni Of­fice. or make out your checks , to the Carnegie endowment fund. This
KDKA Broadcasts Program 
In Honor of Sch ool’s FOundep-
Pulitzer Prize Winner Discusses “The Stewardship 
Of American Wealth”---Orchestra, Band Play; 
Honorary Fraternities Call Members
Between 1,500 nud 2r000 people, including faculty students ’¦ 
mul ulitmni, assembled in Cumcglo Music hnll this morning, to 
celebrate the ,one hundredth birthduy of Andrew Carnegie. All i 
dosses were suspended from 10:30 to .1:30 in order that ;$tu> :
dcnls might ftttond, ...*
Dr. Douglus S. Frcopatm, l?Ji;D., LL,D., editor of the '{Ricii- ¦*motid News-Leuder/' and winner"oi :;
Girls Paint 
Senior Fence
Seniors Make Freshies 
Remove All Paint
Plebes Paddled
Freshmen Not Observing 
fillies Are Punished
The plebos may buffalo the timid 
sophomores but they havo found the seniors less backward. . When yearlings painted Lhe class numorals on the senior fence one night Inst week, they - failed to reckon with the dignity of this year s graduating class. Alter sov- al days of due consideration and
Seniors congregated around the during the dny and
> pirt t
day night~fhe eacred ?ence.-,Wofl' restored-to Its normal condition.
But. the seniors were not fully appeased and Friday saw them In action again. With paddles In hand and aided by sophomores - and
New Deadline 
For Pictures
Thistle Sets December 14 
As Final Date
Keith McCutcheon ‘37. editor-ln- chlef of the.Thistle, has extended the time limit for ell pictures to bo
this time, the charge will be fifty nts for a sitting and $1.00 down payment on the Thistle: If they are taken after this date, there will a charge of $1.00 for a sitting d $1.00 down payment on the Thistle. Pictures may be turned iu the Christian Association office . Monday and Wednesday from 12:30-to 1:30. and from 11:30 to. 30 any other day. ________
Misguided Messiahs Menace| 
American Christian Ideals
Dr. Ross Says the President of theA.A.U. Is Making 
Religious Question Out of Sports Problem 
By Advising Olympic Boycottof Germany
"Blackball Germany, rt is domi­nated by bigotry and hate.” Such is the battle cry of-Judge Jeremiah T. Mahoney."This is not a religious or a racial question.", says the Judge.• -This is . a
humanity and
v tions.” - 
.Lest the reader believe that these re^
• from, a 1917 speech to in- . cite enlistment In: a throat-, cuttlng.cru- sade against
hut..athletic, games •
swlvel-chair general, but a former dispenser of even-handed justice who 1d now president of the Ama­teur Athletic JUnion. .Judge Mahoney says 11 Is not "a religious-question: but in the hands of Judge. Mahoney.,or any-other Christian a course of action such as he advocates becomes: a relig­ious question. In. striving-to aid
ellgliJudge'Mahoney is not a believer In-God and a Sunday -Christian. He is an everyday Christian.. ouOo
post ln order vto get.back into: the world." where he gives his tlme^and energy In directing the world s af­fairs upon ; a proper path. Such ,devotIon;-to -righteousness is -rare; Though the Judge Is too modest* to admit H.' he-is a-modern mlsslon- 
(Contlnued • on Page .Four) v
the 1996 Pullteer prize for the best . biography of the year, “Robert E. Lee," gavo- the- principal, -iddrasev I His subject was “The Stewardship; of American Wealth.’*Dr. .Charles Watklus, noting proo« ¦
orohesU'ft. as woll as the .speakers : were, scatod on- tho stage during the entire program.As n special fenturo of the oser cises, pluld memorial buttons with pictures of Audrew Carnegie were given to everyone attending. Pro-
ship lioldors.- and two Illustrated*: articles entitled. "Andrew Carnegie and the Founding" and “TheFound«* or and tho Studonts." were. d1a- : tributed. -.The Founder and -tho Students- describes C&rnegle'a;llve : visits to tho school. A chrftnology of tho institution, giving, the ont- standlng events of each year from
lets have a four color - embossed--- renroductlon of the officiai aenUnf rtarnAi 
tne institution. At ^he end
with a PïocesHiona! - by- e-. bagpipers This was followed by ‘lAmericü, - sung-by -the -audleiMie:' SnmucrHürden^hiirch^tlmU'man..;-''
the Founder."The Kiltie band, seated In .'the center section of the. first balcony,.; played two Scottish airs, '.’Bonnie
i address. The Stude^t Syiù*:'
olrt\ adwhich was broadcastDr. Watkins then presented scholarship trophies to the :.lr^ 'ternlty, sorority, men’i dormitory, (Continued on Page Foar)
55 M.M. Girls ^
Accept Bid @ 
To Sororities_
Alpha Theta Sigma Lem!i- 
With 19-Two Others 
Follow With 18
Morrison, with 65-girls answering; : the bids extended by the thrco' “ sororities. Only a very slight-de* I crease-was Bhown in a comparlaon:; •with the pledges . of Hiie' iaS«5^ season, 68 girls having, -been /-;
of pledges, with 19 rusheea ac- - ceptlng their bids, while Gamma / Phi Sigma and vKappa Phi Delta * followed with lS:pledges each,--.
----------Arts. - Statements - frpxn .'-the/preal>:^JibI dents of the various: sororities pressed the . complete eatlflfacUon-. ^ -^--- of all concerned. Said man. president oI'Gamina'PM';SIgi.S^K ma, ‘’In my. opimon. the Tushlng .^q: season was so successful this'yeaV>|^&) <
tions than we had during oar 6a* >j previous rlt nc In official i I'ushing’’ *'\ i W 11n r pr fll^nt «f Al i pha Theta Sigma; saild, i’Ope • pecially good; feature of'the:^ueh'?
the sororities "rh pr 11 nt rf K ippa l*bl Del^ i ta. Dorotha Bateman;-'‘expressed^ her belief that; aside Irom-the^fa^
Recent ; complaints the:ru0hing:syBtem?and^ plans for.ca'>ev1alo'níoí thi régulations and hadget. a].. (Contlnued on Page.

---------------------------------------------------

Bobbin-Boy to Riches 
Story of Carnegie’s 
Remarkable Climb
Traditional Highland Airs 
As Played By Kilties 
Entertain Crowd
Started at $1.20 a Week 
: Yi t He Gave Away 
|325(000,000
FOUNDEK DEEPLY 
INTERESTED IN C.I.T.
^My Heart Its in the Work” 
Said Carnegie in. Letter 
. To Pittsburgh Mayor
- From an immigrant stripling who started work- in America as a bob-- bin-boy for $1.20 a week, to 9. mar^ Svho gave away $326,000,000 during ¿is--lifetime, "for the advancement of mankind1'—thie was the remarlc-: able' rise of- our founder. The Jong [ road between these two extremes hied many stepping-stones for An­
drew Carnegie.
An old whaling ship, tho .Wiscae- sett, brought the Carnegie family of four to the United States in- 1846, a voyage of seven weeks irom Glasgow to New York. The under­taking was made poslble, in part,'..by-a.loan of twenty'pounds from a friend. The displacement of the single, loom, hand-operated in - a weaver's cottage;-by the multiple • machine loom, caused hard times in the Scottieh Highlands, in the eighteen-forties, * •' 'i%--
, Carnegie pare;
and -forced : the leave Dun­
fermline. Relatives who had pre-
C. C. A. Gives 
Dinner Thurs.
made the Upper Ohio Val-.
• . ley their objective.
. : When the lad from Dunfermline arrived on the scene in the middle . of the lBSt century, Pittsburgh had ! a population of 46,000. The city at that time was approaching tho : threshold of its astonishing devel­opment aa a great Industrial cen­ter. The decades from I860 to .1900 wfflHheperiodin which An V drew Carnegie played such an lm- •. ; p6rtant a role.
¿ After working as a bobhhi-boy.' Andrew Carnegie Was a telegraph . messenger, a telegraph operator,¦ assistant of the Pittsburgh division’ •; 'of. the Pennsylvania Raftroad, su­perintendent of that division, as- aiatant in charge of military rail­roads and telegraphs for the gov- . orrimeut at the beginning of the .¿•war between the states, bridge- v-:builder, iron manufacturer, and . 1 finally, the chief figure In steel pro* -v.,ductloiL More than anyone else •^fce- broushi 'about ithe> adoption o£steel as the principal structural material throughout' the United 
States.
. .It was not, however, his accumviiiation of jhilllons in business that gave Carnegie his .deepest satisfac­tion. It was the consciousness , .that he had concurrently succeeded . In- developing himself from a' lad !of .little .learning to an educated man' and a useful citizen of his -adopted country.'. This was accom- :".'l)liBh^d't)y omnivorous reading, by . y cfa#<rel,. by Authorship, by public 1’'-^peaking, and' by. association with ^ :t>e foremost'men of his time. ' '
He had, moreover,'won the' in- .> teresL and .approval; of his con- ‘: •. temporaries' by the point of view, .. vflrst widely publicised by him, that .' -surplus wealth was a-trust to be I, expended for the benefit of others, and that "to die rich is to die dis- '-¦grae'ed!" To convert this belief •-. > iii toa achievement he made librari 'arid organs available for a m , titude of communities, created- foundations for .human welfai .'-acientlflc research, gave many.gifts ’to colleges and universities, worked- devotedly in the.cause of intema- tlonai peace, and found his great est pleasure in bringing relief and-.happiness to hundreds whose- ' ".names were nevev revealed,, oldfriends'with whom he had’touched ' •lives'along the way, and .to whoi ; adversity in some form had brougli ‘ ,V 'distress of mind or body.
-¦•Of his innumerable benefactions '. ¦’ (Continued on Pagie Seven)
• Mrs. Carnegie 
Sends Regards
Andrew - Carnegie, wife of the founder of the school, mad«» the following statemei
Carnegie's centennial:- “You .may- be sufe’ the'In­stitute of Technology is very close to my heart, as it was to Mr. -Carnegie’s,, and I 're­joice ito: know of the celebra­tion at' Carnegie ' Tech in . honor of this occasion.
deeply interested I am In the splendid' work the Institute is accomplished in develop-
:ountry and the Carnegie tra­dition.“With good wishes for each and every member of this gréât institution, believe me,
MARCHING , LED BY 
COMBINED BANDS
All Playero in Pipers Band 
Were Ooce Associated 
With KiltietjBand
Students Will Be Guests 
At Thanksgiving Meal
In Carnegie Inn
Open House at Cedar Hall 
To Be Held in Evening
Out-of-town students will bo the 
guests of the Christian Association 
at the annual Thanksgiving day 
dinner to be held, in Carnegie Im 
Although the dinner Is arrang­
ed principally for students
remain at school during the 
Thanksgiving recess, any students 
who live in' the city are cordially 
invited. The dinner will be served 
p. m. so that the students may attend the football game before-
e Thanksgiving dinner lias been a traditional affair at Car­negie ever since the Christian As-
Is to provide a dinner equal to that might be obtained at home In v'a ' Thanksgiving atmosphere'.. Half-of the expense will be . paid by the Christian Association and the students will be assessed only fifty cents. '
After dinner, Miss E. Belle' Myers, house ' mother of Cedar Hall,* will : he hostess at an open, house which will be held In the dormitory. -,
’ •' In' order to secure accommoda­tions, students are asked to make their reservations before 4:00 o’clock Tuesday, Nov.embér 2 the Christian s Association office. Tames Layton ’37, is in charge of arrangements and ticket sale. Last year-about fifty* students were served, .and a large attendance is expected this year . also.
Dormitory girls will not be 'chargcd for the dinner, as it Is in­cluded in. their board.
BagpipersPläy 
Scotch Tunes
Traditional Scotch bagpipers and-! drummers led. students and facul­ty, in the parade from the campus, 'the Carnegie Music Hall this
|Sed. all. parades and victory'celc> brations on the campus.
The pipers were, secured ;for. the centennial celebration through.thé efforts ôf À. .W. Tarbell, déan of and Mr; William Frew, mem-: b'er of the board of trustees. ' / Scotch airs .in the highland man« ;r were played by the ‘ pip.ers as the .parade formed. With the Kil­tie band playing the parade reach* . — « -• street where the bag- 
ched into the lobby of the Music Hall and played until the celebration program started.1Mr. John'Blackball, instructor in the Department of Commercial Works headed the band .as pipe major. Mr; Blaçkhall also wao re­sponsible ' for the.:'selectlon ofthe bagpiper band personnel. He was time-a member of the forty- eighth' Highlanders of Toronto, Canada and 1b still a charter, mem-
All of .the members of. the. band ero at one time associated with Carnegie Tech. Through an' arr .ngeiqent with the administration
LOUIS SQUITERI WITH HIS ‘‘NANA?
Carnegie Instructor-po6ee with his-latest work which le being ex­hibited In the first exhibition of the Pittsburgh Society of Sculptors. Mrï'Squltlerl'has taken the -title of Zola’s famous “Nana,” and hae sHown-her character with fine-Insight.
for. the lise of practice facili­ties. Demands for thé pipers, were so heavy that in 1928 they were, forced -to disband.Commenting on the pipers in the parade Mr. "Sully” Sullivan director! of the Kiltie Band stated that “we 1 need the bagpipers to' .round out the Kiltle:Band and make It an or­ganization truly representative of . Scotch traditions.”
instructor Shows Work 
In Pittsburgh Exihibition
Louis Squiteri Offers Fine Statue of “Nana” As 
His Newest Creation; Carnegie Tech Is Well 
Represented in Showing of 14 Pieces
THISTLE NOTICE
Thè1 Advertising Staff of the!
i* Freshman is eligible.
Three Honoraries Call 53 
Students For Membership
Phi Kappa Phi, Tau Beta Pi, Tau Sigma Delta, Call 
New Members; Chpsen for High Scholarship, 
Integrity, and Unselfish Activity
Students Give 
Three Plays
Groups Under Direction
Of Prof. Loyejoy
Three one-act plays will he given
George Kittredge. ’36. The cast In­cludes Peter Stetle. Norbert'Kelly; •Prudence, Virginia MaTtln; .‘Mail/ William Dayis; ajid Tramp, De Lisle Crawford.
The second <playj. “Stray Sheep,” by M. Creagh-Henry. ha.8 ’ cast; -Ben, Thomas Koehler; Nan, Jane Prancey; Shepherd, .Goe Nor­ton; A Woman, Sarabel Brownar- sky. This play..is being staged by Mary Qheffey ‘38.
“Three Lepers, of' Suk-EI-GareV is the play'which is being staged by Carl Dozer ’36. The cast .In­cludes: Achmeil. Malcoln)- Milli­gan- Foread, Hugh Overturf; and Dub. Brinton Turkle. ,All of these plays are under the supervision of- Professor Albert Lovejoy of the Department
Carnegie Enters 
Debate Tourney
Speakers have been chosen represent Cariiegle in a debating Westminster College in New Wilmington,- Pa., on December. 7.A .meeting is scheduled' foi morrow- iu. the Commons ar 00 to 7:00, following a t. this time there will be debate,'“Resolved: Mercy Killings should be legalized.” Maxwell Con-'
Fifty-three students wire called I to'. three honorary fralernitles this I ; : uiornlng ’at the Carnegie Day ex-1 ^.;u. :-;;^rclse3 in'Carnegie Music Hall. I • -¦‘¦cDr:--RoBCoe M. Ihrig, dean of ^¿ 'iFresihinen In-the College of En-1 pineerlng, made his call for Phi ¿¿V^Kappa Phi, Richard W. Dennison rr r —for Tau Beta PI, and Frederick S. Crocker, for the Tau Sigma Delta.
Hlgli Scholarship 
- ;High scholarship, integrity, and • - : unselfish activity are requisites for .membership in these honoraries. The choose only / those who by as -studeete. ¡aati? ifest eiceptiooal interest and , rrnnrVM • flbilltv in . their respective, «•"^flelds. The purpose of . .the honor: ir^^aries ifl to.reward.exceptional stu- •'.'flenta and to allow closer coopera- don among, and mutual benefits to, V;'vA;v;the:Student3., . . i- .r:
7 ' ^Phi Kappa Phi was established1 on, the Carnegie campus two years ^ »ago,^ifollowing the amalgamation '•-:, >>:-otrthe colleges' of Industries , and f$K'=i-EngTrtroevlng;--..Its membership ; is. -^^'-•::<jhoaen from, those.: in the upper '.v^enth>: of-the graduating -class -In -.-.each of. the -four colleges twice .at s^year
^ Two Calls Each Year .^•:^.v.^.'.‘:Tau Beta PI, national engineer- ^lnphonoraryi' makes two .calls.each ^y^-yoat. 'One in the fall and the other ^,';7.-:''ia',.the spring. - During the- first- si?:V-a^i*eine8ter:only three men are chosen *$'--:^iromv the - junior, class: .These P ^^ust he in the upper eighth"*
from the upper quarter of the class.The members of Tau Sigma Del­ta, natioual art society, are chosen from the College of Fine Arts.' Those who were called this n ing^were:Phi Kappa'.. Phi—from Margaret Morrison Carnege College—Louise E. Melxner, Emily O. Kramer, Edith M. Ostermau, Helen E. Neid, Ethel E. Berez, Rosemary B. Pierce, Faith M; Frary, Mavy K. “lliott.•From the College of Fine Arts— Louise E. Wingold, Nancy V. Leittli;-: Florence Pyle, Eugene ,J. Mackey, ''Marguerite A- ’ Drdyn,
Conn, Maud L.' Bowers.From the College of Engineering. —Jafek E. McKee, Robert C. Mc- Maater. Rtchard .W. Dennison, J. Roland Hill. Gustav ¿L.^Levlnsou, Paul J. Stein, Barle-E. Unger| Rob­ert' J. McFarlln, Johu J. Keilen. Owen.C. Coho. -, ..- .•••• • ••Tau-Beta- PI' . JuhioTs-r-LewfB -D. - Brlnev,- Wil­liam: J. Close, and Edward J.' Kreli,
Gilson, S. Donald Herahey, J. Nel- eon Jones; Peter ^M. Kalaldzaic, Clinton B. K Impel, Robert C. Krapf,
Cups Awarded^ 
By Dr. Watkins
Presents Scholastic Trophies 
At Centennial Exercises
.(Continued From Page. One)
Is .the second successive Club of- the Men’s Dormitory hav- year that Forbes Hall has received the Women's dorn "
New Yorkers 
To Celebrate
the first , exhibition of. the Pitts­burgh Society of Sculptors.
In. this piece,. Mr. Squiteri, has taken the title .-figure of 3ola‘s fa­mous'story Î and has showii- her character with unueuolly fine In­sight. In choosing; for his subject •mail whose life.was such a mixture .of -the high and the low. the reQned and the coarse, he cut
able manner, successfully caught the delicate balance between the higher, dramatic .side of her, and her. sensual yoluptousnees. :
Gets Effeet of Marble Although • casting the piece in plaster, Mr. Squiteri has gotten the effect of marble. This is mostly 10 doubt, to the extraordinar­ily smooth, finish that h'e"has«iveh This smoothness is especially fine in the, arras/the-thighs, and in conventional, liquid folds of the draping. ) The smooth finish-
of hie
Carnegie - Well . Represented The'Pittsburgh Society of Sculp- are was organized lAst April, hortly after the Associated Artists exhibition. Ini this their first ex­hibition as a group; fourteen picces showD. Over half of the exhibl i ârë either graduates of Car negie or. are associated with it a: members of the faculty..
Professor Joseph Bailey Ellis head of the Department of Sculp­ture, had originally intended to submit his new 'piece- “Wingless Victory,” bnt instead lie is showing
“Pan’s Secret;'” Margaret Grier Brink with “Youth,” a horse’s head done In wax; Clarence -Dei Courtney’s fine, erect nude i'Cassan* dra;" Eugeue Gatthig’s “Peanut
nude. If a drape were ’ added it iuld look as though it' we after-thought.”
Faculty Member For 15 Y< Coming here in 1920, Mr. Squlllerl is «served on the faculty tars. Previously, as a student, he took some work here, and then- served his apprenticeship with Me-
Program Honor6 lOO’th 
Anniversary of Birth 
Of Carnegie
3-DÀY EXERCISES 
COMMENCES TODAY
Concert, Addresses, Dinner 
Scheduled, Notable 
Figures Speak
by the'Carnegie Corporation ofNew| York In celebration of the one hun­dredth anniversary of the birth of Andrew Carnegie.
The celebration will-begin this evening with a concert in' Carnegie Music hall in New York by the New York Philharmonic Symphony! orchestra and the New York Ora- toria society. The program will con­sist entirely of selections from the first program ever presented in that hall. Walter Damrosch, famous throughout the. world as a teacher of music and a director of sy: phony orchestras, will deliver brief address. Twenty-seven hun­dred people' have been invited to attend.
Tomorrow evening Sir James Ir­vine, principal of SL Andrews uni­versity, St. Andrews, Scotland, rep­resenting the various -British Car­negie trusts, will deliver an address at a meeting to be held at the New York Academy of Medicine. Nicholas Murray Butler, president of Columbia university, will preside.
A “Family Dinner” will be held at the Waldorf-Astoria, Wednesday evening at g:00. Addresses will be delivered by Dr. Frederick Paul Keppel, president of the Carnegie CCorporaUon, representing tt~~ various foundations; and Dr. Jami Bryant. Conant, president of Har­vard university, representing the academic world.
Carnegie Men 
To Convention
for several years, then called to Carnegie. He has done a great ¡deal of work th' scale models. Among .some of these, the Allegheny General Hospital, the Pittsburgh Medical
perlmental Laboratory, andfor the Chicago World’s Fair, arc outstanding. •exhibition of thè Sculptors Society has been shown for the last two weeks in the . second lounge of the . Chamber of Com­merce Building., On Saturday,.No-member 23, it was. removed Congress of Women’s Club on lower Penn Avenue, where it will
the exhibit Mr. Squiteri said, “It is one of the Icest collections of work-that has- yer been done or shown by local
Women Riflers 
Awarded Trophy
Championship Team Gets 
intercollegiate Piacque
Mary E. Wettach, captain of the women’s, rifle team, received - the Women’s Intercollegiate Rifle T<
Exercises.This award-is made annually by the' National Rifle Association
is the Ilrst time that the placque has been won by the' women's rifle
,with “Steel Age.”
“Miss America 1935” Withdrawn Also exhibiting Is Rowena ICos* tellow, wife of Professor KosieUow, of the Painting and Design Depart­ment She lias submitted a. bust done In a conventional manner, with a. great deal of feeling aud
1 1935,” withdrew It because lie was not. able to, complete it due to the' great amount ot.publicity.. It has received of late.- Instead he submitted ¦ “Mussolini,” a bust which was shown previously at.the- county fair.
Asked his opinion of the draping of “Miss America 1935,” Mr: 
Squitiei
Choc e your Sank 
as you ’would choose 
afnend 
?
MELLON NATIONAL 
. BANK
begun in 1926
i the competition forfour' consecutive -years, 1927-3(
Centennial Address Criticizes 
High Taxation of Fortunes
Douglas Freeman Says That Confiscation Is Pjtsi 
Step Toward Economic Ruin-Pays Tribute To 
Andrew Carnegie for His Benefactions
Douglas S. Freeman, editor of 
the “Richmond News Leader” and 
of the 1935 Pulitzer prize 
for the best biography of the year, 
criticized the high taxation rate 
large fortunes in this country in his address, “The Stewardship of American Wealth,” delivered at the Carnegie Day exercises, in cel­ebration. of tho centennial of An­drew Carnegie. The exercises were,] held this morning at 10:30 In Car- :gie Music hall.
Maintaining that the confiscation of large estates by the government the first-utep toward economic ruin, Mr. Freeman said, “It must be plain to thoughtful men that if Federal appropriations continue to at staggering figures in the expectation of large revenues from the estates of the rich, the ex­haustion of those estates will-not___ reduction of the cost ofgovernment but a widening of the bracket of taxation. The destruc­tion of the wealth of any class is Invitation to assail the wealth of those who have a little, less, and then of those who have still less.” 
Are Fortunes Harmful According to Mr. Freeman thewhole matter ithe quesr
tlon, “Will the destruction of great fortunes help the average man and his children more than it will hurt them?” In bis opinion It will not.
“Try to picture-to ^yourself,’’ he said, “the state of American educa­tion and American culture without these gifts. Seven of the eleven leading universities In the United States aré privately endowed and receive little or no state supportThey <
Scarah Names Hoffman, 
Gable As Delegates
iegie Tech will be represent- . _ . the annual - convention of Scarab, national honorary architec­tural fraternity, by Gilbert Hoff- — i ’36, president of ! the Iocs’
heldher.24, 25, andthe conference is to bring the bers from different colleges and universities into closer connectloi 
At the conference, sketches en* tered In the national contest will judged and prizes awarded’. The sketches may be in pencil, litho- ¦ • * :ol-
shown In-the various schools..Donald Courtney ’38, Is the only Carnegie contributor • to - the con­test this year.Scarab fraternity, to quote the con­stitution, “was organized in order to provide for attaining a-broader knowledge of architecture and the allied arts, secure (through associ­ation) the advantages of a more
arts, promote friendly compctitio among tlie students and schools of.
within, the fraternity.” .
iduct the most and, in many subjects the moBt advanced courses. In certain arts and sciences they provide in­struction which .a man could not procure elsewhere; and in their laboratories they advance searches of infinite and continuing value to applied as well as abstract science. • '
RooseVelt.'Pays. Tribute “President - Roosevelt: . himself paid the highest possible iribute to these universities when he. re­cruited from them so large a per­centage of the men who are fash: ioning the .New Deal. It may fair­ly be. questioned whether, with the Cqnfiscatlon of wealth, any of his. succesors, a generation hence, will be able to find a like number of. men, Bimilnrlly equipped, in uni­versities whose endowments have been reduced forty.per cent by de­valuation at the same time that their source of large gifts has been .destroyed.
Government Gives “Take the' cultural aspect« American life. ,We sometimes fleet that government contributes nothing substantial to the promo- tiohvof American
MARTZ UNES
Express Bus Service
York ClevelandYorK Akrontrolt south Bend 
r Fares Everywhere
it ToU
to
home t»*
TAMO** 
voutt ^9'
-ïrfl fco® " .
.SAVE AFTER SEVE
,Siallon-lo 
SÏSE» ;
ICO miles lot «Oc-i
great masterpieces to < the last generation of 
millionaires added ÎUl.OQoÔoô'"*
poverished European__ullidggprovide id their budgets for greal orchestras. What our government been unable or-unwilliug io<j„ ate philanthropy has achieved Quite apart from annual subven­tions for our; orchestras, the 
¦enty years have witnessed the establishment of the JuilVard Fc dation and the Curtis School o( Music which, .with lesser gifts, rep. resent capital .endowment oi anFl 000,000; To-.th'e enrichment of through donations of «ej. resf ^ 
museums * lerisan
twenty-seven years.
Mr.' Freenjan also quoLed numer- le other examples of valuable services rendered by libraries, h«.pltals, orphanages, —------search laboratories, ______
tutions, playgrounds, and mani] others, all'of which have beea I tabllshed through the generoBll; of these same men whose foctoa« I are to all Intents and purposes be-1 ing coafiscated by the govermaem.'
Praises Carnegie In conclusion Mr. Freeman paid ibute to Andrew Carnegie for bis numerous benefactions to mankind all over the world; “If tho age #f Andrew Carnegie,“ he said, "enda with this century; -if his appeal must be from New Deal to pco terity, then I think he would k willing to . face, that last tribunal with those words which were i\ once his warning to the elothtol rich and hie. fullest expression rt his own ideal;
'This, then. Is held to be the duty of the man of wealth: To set ,ple of, modest, unoalenU-
ly for the legitimate dependent upon him; and after ing so, to consider all surplus i
slmplj
lot wealth thuB becoming »' trustee and agent for bia poorer brethren.’
Honest Prices; Faithful Promises)
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
' TAILORING CO.
. MAyflower.9728 
Corner Forbes and Craig
7<tihiona.ltly hottest
oMiEmy 
6g-- 0mvnn and cgtvyMn
There is a defining vogue for "midnight blue" 
(winch appears blacker than, black in the 
night light) Tuxedos and Full Dress. Hand* 
eomely trimmed with lustrous satin or rich 
grosgrain lapels. For that aifair..better be at« 
tired in a style-instiled Howard «vetoing suit.
Tux” or Tails m
Dress Vest *2 73
HOWARD^
CLOTHES

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Tech History 
Is Short but Eventful
School Has Risen to High 
Rank in 30 Years Existence
Youngest Httsburgh College-Founded in 1905, 
financed by Andrew Carnegie and Erected 
On 32 Acres Presented by CityCout cil
Carnegie Tech is relatively a riéwcomer in Pittsburgh col- 
beiate circles. Thè University of-Pittsburgh (Pittsburgh Acad- 
JL Western University) Vas founded in 1787—Duquesne Uni- 
versity (Pittsburgh Catholic College) began in 1878-r-Pennsyl- 
vanift College for'-Women started in 1870.- Thè position which 
farnogie enjoys among the nation’s, technical.schools indicates 
background upon 'which it^jtbe fi' ¦ • -vresls and which men such o:
¿rew Carnegie made possible.
Tte idea of a technical school 
]CU as Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology was conceived by Andrev 
Carnegie and in a letter, to the 
of Pittsburgh lu 1902 he 
11 offer to aid financially in 
iha founding of such a school IH coopei'ation of the city ol 
Pittsburgh.
hy November 10, 1903, Arthur A. lamerscWag was appointed. Di­rector or the Carnegie -Technical
Schools.feershe e:___schlug' in preparing Díaos and selecting the email fac­ility needed to open .the schools. April o, 1905, ground, was broken br Mrs. Hamerochlag for the first group of buildings, the College oí idustrics (ihen' called the School r Aunrentices and Journeymen).Classes Start In 1905 Otlober IS, 1D0S, Industries build­ing.was partially,, completed . and classes opened in spite of hammers jod saws, with 120 engineering stu- denis entered in a .three-year course leading to a diploma. *All rouv schools (colleges)..orking in the three • completed «nils of Industries during the next (vo years and night courses in all four schools had -begun.Tho first issue of the" "Tartan” appeared October 24/ 1906. A copy be seen in the recorder's
ivas during these flvst few___tliat the Tartan was adoptedinr ihe Tech colors. • A remnant
tog. -Margaret Morrison Carnegie School — named after the found- mother — was 'finished in 1907 and the Women’s - school trans­ferred to It. •No Streets on. Campus ' campus at-'this time we lion of building material itul (there' was-; no street ben) leading-from Margaret M01
Forbes and thé hollow, was filled there were only vo approaches to the college,wind swept Sch.enley. Park ridge and the other along Wood- i*n Avenue and up the “Muddyran.” • '
Tlic present science buildings «recompletedin 1908 and prompt- occupied by the engineering- atn- als mid faculty.. In the same ar 5S diplomas were granted to ta charter classes in; engineering l architccture; TK6;‘ faculty, all caps and gowns, marched to ' ; Music hall for Carnegie':
ndunting classes.".In 1910-11 four year courses wei (Continued on Page Seven)
Sorority Pledge 
TotalEncouraging
Jargarct Morrison Pledging 
Surpasses Art. School
1 pledges who accepted the ifls of the various sororities are^ follows:Alpha Theta Sigma: Betty Brit; Katherine Garrahan *36,¿a, Katnenne Garrahan oe, «Olyn Gilbert. '37, Evelyn; Gilles- 6 '36, Betty Gleason .’38, Sara "Mhoy '37, Betty Jarrett *36, Dov- «y Mapnaon '38, Ann McCullough, *•> Lucille - McIntyre *36,' Nancy wsselman ’37, Betty Nied '36, Catherine O’Neill ’36, Vida y erl '33, Pbyllls RosaelU '38, El- ^or RockweD '38, Adelaide Rem- 8oa *-27, -Irene Snyder -'-38,-aiid-
a^nor Stanton.*38. S.,5amma Phi Sigma: Katherine *jiina ’38, Betty ..Crawford' '37, ^¦evleve Polin • -’38; Florence 'neve '33, Betty Hook' ’38^ tois er ’37, Margaret-: Kieiter '38; ^ Kyak. ’38, i' Gene, McCullough J Jane Moss ’37,?Mary, Louise sett '37, Ruth Siegle ?38,.Gene- Slroesaley. '38, Margery, Tajr- Katherine Thomas '38,- Da- «3 Thnmpuen ’36,- Margaret-Trim •l./8. and Agnes Walsh;’38.A... 
ton>P>a Delta; .^d’elalde Asch-. nJ* . Mary . iBrnggeman v'38. “«anna Coutiney .'38,' Riti:Fitz-' 38, Maxine Foster'.'38^ Mar*'Jû. maïine Fosterwar* J C,Mg Fuller .’38,. JeânneYHàyes J cannette Kelly^38Ï Joan Kuhn 
» ,,u0san Lloyd '38| Eleanor Low- ¿3 Jane .McLean '>38, - Jane i38- Ruth: : Mntikan ’38. 
liE Pac® ’38- Virginia Pence Ç Yorke ’38, and Mary Belle.
30 YEARS AT TECH
Business (Manager Frank Orbin 
set week rounded oub 30 year: 
orvlce on the Carnegie'eampui
600 Students 
Aid Charity 
Fund Drive
Cwen Tag Day Nets #35 
'As Student ^ Total 
Slowly Climbs
The Cwen Tag Day- held last Wednesday netted thivty-flve dol lars for the Community' Fund, bringing the student total a. hun­dred dollars more than last year.* Six hundred students contributed to the drive although the - college quota was. not reached. 'C.I.T. .quota ......$ 6,0Facuty and staff .....$3,408.08 Students .. 377.02 ,Carnegie Institute . 893.50
Three hundred and fifty mem bers of thB staff and faculty have icnt in contributions as compared 0 four hundred last The drive this year started much earlier than the one la?t year and.the fact ths ..............reached casts no reflection upon the organization of the drive at Tecb. Mr. Beatty, Mrs. Moore, Mr. Davis, and Richard. Hi
redit for their unstinted ef­forts' to put the drive o'ver at Car-
New Tainting 
Booklet ¡Out
Students Issue 16-Page 
Folder about Course
To meet the demand for inforni
terested students aud others out-, side the college who make inquiries about the scope of the course.Under the. title, "Unique -Col­lege Goers," the folder contains
completeof the subjects tudied by printing students. Jer- E. Kappel-’36, business man-
Frank Orbin 
On Campus 
For 30 Years
Business Manager Came 
Here When School 
Was Founded
- Mr. Frank Orbln, business man­
ager of Carnegie, has been on ^ the 
campus since the 6chool was 
founded—30 yeare ago.
“My chief work here has been more along the line of sticks and 6tone6>" said Mr. Orbin when Inter­viewed about his years on the campus. “I am -mainly interested in making Carnegie into a better place for students to' live aDd work. When an organization-' or class wants to 6lage a dance or some other' .afftir, they come . to '.' and I try .to *.slp them along.
my job as electrical supervisor then to see that, all the rooms fully and comfortably .equipped for occupant
According- to* Mr. Orbin, .who votes Republican, he was. grad- Hated from Penn State, in 1772. The date seems a little hard to be­lieve. but he did , receive hiB B. S. in' Mechanical Engineering from Penn State. • “After I finished Penn .State, I'soldiered, for a y at Johns, Hopkins, then I. did elec­trical work ¿or. the Westlnghouse Company,'.’ Mr. Orbin. said. November, 1905, I, came to negle. to ¿0 some eltctrlcal .work and I have been here , ever Blnce in one'position or another.
that Ia banquet in 2913. Sometimes take It off. during the summer sc son,' but mostly I wear It all year round. Occasionally I forget and sleep with It Mr. Orbin's work lids been chief­ly concerned with' the physical, -king aspect of the school, but
(He wants particular say, “I don’t want anybody to take anything too seriously."
Dorm Council 
Proposes Club 
For Students
‘Dorm”, New Men’s Club 
* To Assume Present ' 
Council Duties
Council President Says Club 
Should Satisfy Need 
. Of Organization
Naine Dollar 
Contributors
Two Hundred Alumni 
Support Dollar Day
Ikor, D. M. Gray, John A_. Tejan, Francia V. rie, Alan Btight, Pau 3. Sebastian. E. Gun at, Sidney Wein, Geo 
^W^Smaltólf^-Mervti Mrs.. A. F. - ShuDP, J . Sheppard, T. Master
r L. Rhoads, Howard Harpatcr.
arris, Mary Wight, 
i Campbell, H.
PòstRAté; :
__________-TC.-H.-Miehot.cr,Ende, Ralph Mtinn,:"Agnes Bird, Spencer, Q. F. Sheen, C. B.' Stanter Rogers, Hallle Hydi, Virfdnta. Alej T. F. Rockwell. Alen Rlsedorrh, .
M^n,Me’cifwIgh, BsfaR6Bc«eSn>lUi.lrMarT -H«lcn KllnHcnsihSthl Anna'.C." McBride,' -Edriah N.. Cranna, ; Marguerite F. Abbott. Webster N. Jonas, N. C. Rlffita, S. B. Ely. Katherine E.- Schultz, Walter W.
gioup of practical problem^ as signed to senior, students in . the Printing Production class. The design,', color scheme, composition and presswork of such projects- must be doue'indivldually by the 
students/The folder reveals several sig­nificant . facts about .Carnegie’spriiitlug -course. ’'-Graduatee <sf-thc:i • D^eTi ïivÿàonly collège. In thé country ^hicll Gelst,. MarRaict- Marthena,' gives a degTee in printing and with Harriet Fi GlenJoij, Captain A._n. enir 
a training that they could not re I ciendinnina KeeWen?R w ^owmBn^i ceive in the industry itself, these Esteman, Edith M. Witchestêr. W. J Carnegie -Tech
,. R. Whit-.
in. important positions in printing plants' tbroiighout the" nation. Em­bryo' printing executives when thay graduate,- these men soon work themsialves: into key positions in 
the-industry; *“Armed with - his -Bachelor of Ssclence.' iegreer, the printing, stu dent is -ready, för the. world. But Is the^ world; ready for him.?- Tbe:best. answer'tV'this.and a very substan­tial argument.for’ the course ‘
this, is higber. than the _ .othèr typés, .of. atúdents entering industry: .during ‘üiè ;aàme; period.1’:
ikcy.W.
: HsmliUin. Mlw. Satah ,; Thomaa F.-Coailej
to. A'disturbing'fact is that much
liàm Feather.; '!
At the. Men’s Dorm: j il
meeting last Monday r rt d 
steps were taken towai I th 1 r 
"(Jon of-a new dormlUr 0 1 a
-tion to be. known as lu« wmi, 
Proposing- to draw Its members 
from the junior and senior classes, 
the "Dorm" has as Its-objectives: 
“To provide strong and active stu­
dent government in the dormitor­
ies; ond to promote the weUave'of 
dormitory men."
A complete' constitution of Iho' new organization has been drawn up and will be submitted to Stu­dent council for its approval . at. .the meeting tomorrow night, council has jurisdiction .ovei day student activities and under­graduate organizations
ficial existence;.According to Dorm, council pres­ident, J Roland Hill, plana call for the “Dorm” to assume all the pow­ers of the Dormitory council ns outlined in the' council constitution. It is also to supervise all dormitory, activities/and proVlde-adeqiiato dis
One -of the prerequisites foi
For 1935*36,- however, < didates will be accepted If' t have lived there' for one y< Other qualifications will include
TWO QUINTUPLE-TBREAT MEN
vili, also be required.
has'been evident for the last two or three years because of the dis­organized government, moral spirit and organization of tho dormitories. Both he and Ralph Herbert; sec letary of the Dorm, council, felt' that the duties of the council were too strenuous for its few members; In taking over the council duties by tbe new organization, the work would be spread over a larger n ber of men.The insignia of the Dorm..,” stated ih-its constitution, is to be- a cloth coat, maroon in color with an -embroiflered^inonogT&m - of gold and green over the left breast.
Hold Style Show 
Here on Dec. 11
Students. Will Model New 
Costumes in Display
Why. have the “Maggies" done 
away with the debutante’ slouch- 
and adopted the head-tilgh-cbin-iii 
erect posture? .Here's tbe secret. 
The Costume .Economics club as­
sisted by Mrs. Hale of the Ven- 
jiome shop in Kaufmann’s, is spon­
soring a style show which will be 
held December li from 3; 30 to 6 
in the Margaret Morrison Assembly Hall.The models will be chosen from the girls in all the departments of Margaret ’ Morrison by Mrs.. -, Hale and a committee selected-by the Costume Economics' ciub.The clothes.featured by Vendome, in the show, will not- only Include the newest Palm Beach outfits for those who are packing their wafd- robes tor the-Florid^ .aun. .but sport suits,' evening apparel-and Access­ories for those who plan to Bpend their Christmas -vacation In the city.And here’s the' answer ‘to college girl's prayer. Mrs.-Hale Is 'going to explain how to make -four different costumes but of one
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5823 FORBES STREET
C. S, EDMAN
PRINTERHAzel Û193 .
6470 Monitor Street
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
: For a Real Delicious 
: Home-Cooked ICeal
EAT AT
Mary’s Restaurant
327 South Craig Street
Near Forbes Street 
'. Try p>ur: Special-25c. Luncheon. 
CAT WHERE YOUR FRIENDS ;TW5ET>
"Rip" Van Vaulkertberg and “i each, other under, friendly smiles < Tartari-Puppet struggle at 10 o'cloc
iocs!' Boutelle mask their hate for ; they make plans for the tltantl< Thanksgiving morning.
Tartan-Puppet Footbawlers 
Clash in “ Toikey”Day Classic
Thousands of Students Eagerly Await Forthcoming 
_ Struggle: Harpster Reported on Hand to Gain 
Pointers as Newshawks Round into Shave
By Toby Cross 
¦ Headlining the.sport ©vents 'of 
Turkey Day will1 be 'the. clash- of 
tbe Tartans aud- the Puppets on 
the gridiron. . Ten o’clock • Is the 
timo and. the Bowl'the place of the 
.classic; Crude estimates placd the 
crowd which will be, on hand to. Witness football at lls best at many thousands.. 'Feverish activity has been going
JioiirV in . perfecting ' the newest thing in trick plays.' Even as close- ly.guarded as the practice sessions have been, information has leaked out from the1 Puppet office that they have a honey called the 
“statue of liberty," which will take the football world by storm.
In trying to decide . which of his four teams he would start. The Tartan roster this year is heavily padded with -. ex-stars of ' gi’ade school inter-claBS teams. Head­liners of the Tartans will include such- flashes as “Bronco Al” Schwartz,, one of . the Murray Ave-'
i boys, and “Aqe’’ Mulligan from
hasn't mnde a bad pass from ¦
the. Canadian Flash,. swears be will turn tho affair Into a,hockey game before- the end of the first quar>
. “Nutley" Gardner from Nut, N. J., Is- one thei-Tartan-guards ' who will- be hard to crack. When “Squeeze" Gruber gets'his hands on anythlng or body he never -turns
down by .those Bturdy stalwalts, •'Butterfly1'. Shear, and “Whlzbang’’ Byrne, who never missed a man or woman.'
. The less said-about those deplor­able Puppets, the better. However,
and “Goose” Reed, ceded sòme mention. “Barfly” Weinberg Is - as yet undecided
nection' whatsoever with him.
TYPEWRITERS J14.95 TO $75.00
. Liberal Terms . . Free Trial •
RENT A TYPEWRITER. First Tb^ee Months' Rental Applies to Purchase Price.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
Rushing Rules Presented 
By Interfraternity Council
Restricted Period From 
Dec. 2 to 6; Open 
Rushing Dec. 10
1. The rushing season shall bo 
divided into three - perteds, a re­stricted, rushing period, a contact* ing period, and an open rushing pe­riod; There shall be no rushing of contacting of any kind from the beginning of school to tbe begin- nlng of 'the first rushing- period. Contacting .shall be defined as any 
communication with, an Individual with Intention to- further fraternity interests.
2. Tho restricted period shall extend from 11:20*a. m., December S, to CiOv i>'.' iu.,.'December 6. Dates with .the rushees during the strlcted period shall be completely under the jurisdiction of the Inter- fraternity -Council. No fraternity alone may moke a date with rushee for any time during the i strlcted period. Each fraternity ahaU cause its rushees to be readv to leave its house at the expiration of the tlute'of ils dates during the rostrlcted period.o. The.dating period shall begin4:20 p. m., December 9. Contact­ing consista of the fraternities mak­ing dates jvlth rushees for the optm rushing period. No contacting shall' be done In buildings where students aro assembled for Instruc­tion, or in dormitory roomB. . No •nlty-may make a dnte with q before this contacting period begips. No contacting shall be done nfter'9:00 p. m. on nlgbts preced­ing a school day.4. The open rushing season shall begin at -11:20 n. m„ December 10. and shall continue until 12:a0 a. m.. December 15. On any evening pre­ceding a school day. rushees. must of tbe fraternity houses bv 8:30 p. m.. On Friday evening. De- comber 1,3, rushees must be out of the fraternity houso .by 1:30 a. m. On Saturday evening. December 14. .riishees must bo out of fraternity houses by 12:00 midnight, and out of thé presence of fraternltv : men by 12:30 a. m.6. Bidding may begin at 4:30 p. m„ December 30.6. There shall be a silence pe­riod from 12:30 a. m.. December 1C. until 6:30 a. m.. December 17. Dur- Ins rthls silence period, boglnnlng at 8:30 a. m., Decembor i5. rushees may pledge to a fratornlly bv ap­pearing at the house of their choice. From that time on; nil n)cni pledged shall wenr pledge but­tons that shrill be strictly lionorod by. all fraternities. Pledges-shall then be subject to tho same rules •nlng the conduct of fraternity No fraternity mnv speak to contact ' a rushee during this
lence perIo<l on December 17. open rushing shall' provnll for the rc-
11. Any fraternity guilty of the Infraction of these rules shall he penalized a maximum of '$60.00, for each Infraction. In addition, any fraternity found guilty'of violating the silence perlod'trom 12:30 am, December 16.; to 8!30'a. m.. Decern- . ber 17,. shall lose the privilege of competing in Intramural or.Inters rratemlty competition for: the re mainder of the school year.12. .. All <tharg9S‘Of .vlolfttlcs Sh®y.“ be put'lb writing by tbe fraternity rooking the charge and shall be pro- sented to tho President of -Interfra- torolty Council by Jannary.7. All power of decision and Infliction of penalties of cases arising out of the Interpretation and application of theso regulations ehalhbe'-vested In tho Interfroternity Council.'Rushing of second semester registrants mav begin April 7. at - 4:20 p. m.. and shall bo considered open. _________________
Arts Graduates 
Join New York 
Theatre Group
wo former student? In tho. De­
partment of Drama havo completed 
negotiations to work with tbe As­
sociated Actors Theatro; Inc;, this
Frank Crenshaw has joined tbe ¦oup at High View. New York,
sliaw will haVe promlnont roles I botl* productions, which are "Qai- lory Gods-’ mid -Dr. Knock."
Martin Fallon will. act. as do* slKuer and head of production for the company. Mr. Fallon-,special­ised In technical stogo design Ayhlio n undorgraduate.
The company will .tour tbe East' and tbon start on a tour to the Pa*.
WEDNESDAY IDINE.^DJLNCE
GEORGIAN 
io ho ROOMXinllllaltnqMaSierf . . rflU2ZY*'KOUNT£ ¦ tinti hit Orchestra*. ' rCATUR'NG THE NEW HAMMOND . OR&AN -
....
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
9 6
Member Federal Deposit "Insurance Corporation -
Oakland BranchForbes and Meyran
"THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
e
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Ï:S
Í
EASY WAY TO S^ÜÎ^LAW OF GRAVITY
..AND AN EASY WAY^ 
TÖ ENJOY A PIPE

---------------------------------------------------

S cholHai sAnahlv erlyhfC g'B.V EFC STCF
arhe Carnegie 3Tartaw.
PHONE MAYFLOWER
Editor-In-Chief .
AdrtrthlBf Mnn»t*r_--
1 Published weekly during Uie ’college j
Ftttibnmb Post (
Eòlh>r-ln-Chkf_
AUVBRTISENG.MANAGER: Robert IPHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: *----"EXCHANGES: Rosemary B. CIRCULATION MANAGER: TYPISTS: Mar? Lou Schley _. CTAFF-ARTIST*? t' O. S'-“ F 
, JUNIOR EDITORS: Louise
sepb ”1
REPORTERS:
SPOUTS STAFF:
ftli
Our Founder,
The Incredible Carnegie ,
HERB was a vibrant under-current of ex- 
:/JL citement on. the campus the day of Octo­
ber 27, 1914- Andrew Carnegie, the almost 
mythical founder of our school, was to tour 
the grounds, and buildings thé next day. Lights 
glowed far into the night as rooms were made 
spotless and corridors carefully swept. “Uncle 
Andy" must see his school -at its best!
Furnishing a touch of pathos to preparations 
¦was-the wheel Chair which authorities had on 
hand should the “grand old man” feel tired.
The next day Andrew Carnegie inspected 
every inch of the school. Perhaps sometimes 
the footsteps of the fiery little Scotsman fal-. 
tered, but the indomitable will which made him 
•roler of America’s largest industry held him 
doggedly to his intention of seeing just what 
tiua school of his was like.
Andrew Carnegie scorned the wheel chair 
that day just as he had scorned difficulties and 
softness all his energetic life. .
The story of Mr. Carnegie's rise to fortune 
is fascinating but after all, many men have 
risen to such heights and have soon been for- 
. gotten. He had a definite goal; to accomplish 
good he must possess money, so he earned the 
money. Then he set about accomplishing good. 
^ . Andrew Carnegie gave away $350,000,000 
during his lifetime. The greater part of this 
--wip-for popular education for ha believed édu­
cation to be the foundation of an enduring 
Civilization. Iristèad .of promoting share-the- 
. wealth campaigns, he shared his wealth and 
set an example of intelligent philanthropy tlmt 
has never been equaled.
• Mr. Carnegie inspired the people with whom 
he came into .contact. Political conditions in 
/Scotland gave him an. early dislike for heredi­
tary privileges and aristocracy. He loved de­
mocracy and the common people and mixed 
• with them as much as possible.
lit seems paradoxical that such a lover of ed­
ucation should have received so little schooling 
¿iiBsèlf. He attacked culture with as much 
vigor as finance however, and from his person­
al studies realized the lieed of mass education. 
:'It was to satisfy that need that he appropriated 
-the funds necessary to start our school and its 
-continued success' was one of his greatest de­
sires.
Andrew Carnegie was an incredible man 
whose name will live as long as civilization and 
education survive,. “We, as students of Car­
negie Institute of Technology, are privileged 
to have him as our founder.
,¿Let’s Mot Mix 
Politics With Athlete cs
HE HUE and crv being raised throughout 
i.i A. .collegiate circles on the question of Amer­
ican Participation 111 the Olympic Games has 
leached a tate of emotional hysteria. Editors’ 
desks have been littered with pamphlets en­
titled Preserve the Olympic Ideal, setting forth 
-the case.against American participation. The 
editors have made no . attempt to distinguish 
between sports and politics.
The Olympic Games are to encourage the de­
velopment* and extension of international 
amit Success of the games has been achieved 
by precautions against entanglement in polit­
ical, racial, or religious controversies. We fail -to" flee anv attempt to “preserve Olympic 
ideals” of international amitv bv bringing Old 
^ World hatreds into, an America that already 
fom its share of internal hatred Onl when ¿four own house isvin order are we lustificd in 
l Venturing advice to our neighbor
By Jio sane stretch of the imagination can 
l^prttendftnce .and' participation-in the. Games at 
^Berlui’-be construed as un endorsement: of- the 
policies of Adolf Hitler’s government b the 
TTntfed States Consideration of American par 
iHjn.vshould^bcïbased -upon- nothing- bat Athletics and -sporting requirements. ‘With­
drawal whould-'be.only for athletic -reasons and 
reasons have been forthcoming 
o'nsiderations have no bearing upon tlie
6 Gaines have been made the political 
_ ^individuals and organizations;.which 
^^^Imowledge of the^aims or ideals o£ nor do thty aecm to understand
the meaning of '"sportsmanship. Propaganda 
based upon emotional hysteria, race and creed 
hatreds has found reception in the minds' of 
some college students who have not yet 
learned to distinguish between politics .and 
athletic sportsmanship. They will be hard put 
to give a sound explanation for their stand 
after the dizziness provoked by selfish propa­
ganda has subsided.
As a member of the American Olympic Com­
mittee has phrased the issue we might put a. 
check after the most logical reason why the 
United States should boycott the 1936 Olympic 
Games in Germany.
.......Because bull fighting is still permit- _
ted in Spain.
.......Because Russia has abolished all forms
, of religions worship. ’ ... .
* .......Because lynching is tolerated in thei
United States.
.......Because there is slavery-in Ethiopia.
.......Because racial discrimmation-in sporls
in America is common.
.......Because Japan keeps invading China
and seizing provinces.
r......Decause the British have--failed to end
the cast system in India.
.......Because many hotels, clubs and res­
taurants in the United States bar 
flews. - - '
The Olympic Games which will be held at 
Berlin axe in no way controlled by the Ger-i 
man government. They are international in 
character and are controlled by an interna­
tional committee. • Germany has complied with 
all the stipulations of this committee.
American Withdrawal won’t be a blow at 
Nazism, boycotts won't change conditions in 
Germany. - What is right or wrong- in that 
country has nothing to do with our athletes. 
We hold that American athletes should not be 
martyred under the colors of false sportsman­
ship compounded of religious, racial, and po­
litical poisons.
We repeat let America support the Olympic 
ideal of international amity. -Let our athletes 
participate—in athletics. In all other contro­
versies let us mind our own business.
Plcbes Taught Regulations 
At “Eleventh Hour”
A
T LAST the sophomore class seems to have 
wakened to the fact that the duty of see­
ing to it that freshmen regulations are en­
forced is theirs. Although they have waited 
until the “eleventh hour” to force diciplinary 
conduct upon the freshmen, their interest and 
action in the past week or two should be com­
mended.
Whether or not regulations as they' now 
stand are for the best of all, the fact,remains;* 
that THERE ARE REGULATIONS;'and the 
sophomore'-class as a body should feel the re­
sponsibility of seeing their enactment. The 
students’ feeling towards the school is deter­
mined by the impressions he gathers during his 
first year here. If there is no distinction made 
between the different classes, surely the. stu­
dent cannot be expected to develop a feeling 
of school spirit as he advances, through the in­
stitution. College traditions bring memories 
that will always live, and in most schools, the 
rivalry between the freshman and sophmore 
classes is the greatest of all traditions.
• Wednesday night the annual numerals rush 
of the two lower classes will take place. This 
event bids well to become an outstanding Car­
negie tradition. For the last. time,..the sopho­
mores will have the opportunity te>;humble-the. 
plebes, and for the first time, 'the plebes^have 
the chance-to. even up past scores. Every 
member of the two classes should, feel duty- 
bound to take part in the skirmish.
Can you take them over, plebes?
Will you let them, sophs?
The most optimistic man in the world : 'Em­
peror Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, who even re­
fuses to let motion pictures of war be sent into 
his country for fear the people might get ideas.
Those who defend the constitution had bet­
ter do so bv making it meet the needs of mod­
ern times. A hungry man without a job is not 
much interested in tradition.
lem Is one concerning the selfishness and discour­tesy of a few students. We who eat lunch at the Grill are confronted with an ever increasing num­ber of students who boldly step m line ahead of us. or who give several orders to a fneud already In line. As a result those of us who wait our turn are forced to remain in line an undue length of time. It Is .a common thing' to see many--people leave, the counter while you remain In the same spot—at the end of line—for.ten minutes. There [s\ constant flow of giggling, "ladlea" who dash in
privileged to do. anything. Of course, a fair share of the.men have taken up this same practice. At the present., time the scramble appears to be a atrug- gleWra place in lineahead of. everyone else..
^ And at the same time these unprincipled animals have adopted the. practice of placing-their books .on a.vacant table, thus ¦•reserving-' it' I haveraeen men ¦waiting for a table to be'vacated while çpveral were occupied onlv bv booke or one liaughtv • girl hold­ing- a'table for others who were in line.
In all .fairness, these practices should be stopped.
courteous.people-to either -leave or:adopt the procedure in. defense. • The practice of reserving tables Is selfish and unfair. No.'table can.be re­served .in .a, cafeteria..- Everyone pays'.the same rprlce. and ls. entitled to the same privileges, -iislncerely hope that/some solution .can be found.. . Very truly- pours.
RUSHING—EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS
VO L.30N 9 A -«fiBGCJW
News Review of Current 
Events the World Over
Japan Suddenly Squelches North China Autonomy 
Scheme—Italy Struggles Againef Economic Sanc­
tions—President Talks to Mayors About Taxes.
By EDWARD W. PICKARD
norti^h'provinces-T?bf- - dhlnB'i? to& tered by the Japanese army, com­
manders, was like­ly to prejudice her 
case In the naval 
conference- soon to open. In London. 
Therefore the army high command In 
Tokyo told Its sub­
ordinates ' on the' continent to “lay 
off” and the ambi­
tions schemes of 
n.ik»^ MaJ. Gen. KenJI KenJI Dolhara M]M
nasght, a* least for ihe present .That,. plotter,' who had become knbwrits'-''thi-Lawrence of Ohlon.”; 
quietly departed from Peiping,' and hisv early return' was not expected?- 
Thus, for the first time In re-- 
cent years, the Japanese militar­
ists hove been checked, by the. cMw feyd government, ' which-informed 
them that- the mission of the Jap­
anese army- In Manchuicuo did not 
include Intriguing for separation of the Chinese provinces and that It 
Would not be permitted . to - pass 
south of the great wall without an, 
imperial.order.
CQMETH1NGunder the s 
^ Is now being tried out— 
economic war to put a stop to military war. Fifty-two nations f 
united In the Im­position of sanc­tions against Italy, which became an 
¦outlaw .nation . ..on November 18 ' by 
decree of the 
League of Nations.Four Jeagtte p.fl- , tlnns. nil unlnipor- I 
-tnnt; refused to I 
participate. They, are Austria. Hun- pnr.v, Albania and 
Paraguay. Indirect the. league +>.v two
porta nre closed to Italian goods, 
and exports to Italy of arms, war materials and a ions list of key products has stopped. Loans and 
credits for the Italian government, public bodies, corporations and In- 
dividual* are forbidden, .Should this momentous action 
succeed. It would «pern that the end of Rrnilto Mussolini and the Fascist 
regime' in Itnlv Is In sight. Should It fail .the League of Nations falls, 
the British communications in the 
Mmliterriinean would he threatened, and the recce of the world, would be 
monacc'd.
Standing steadfast against the 
sanctions. Premier Mussolini pro­claimed the dn.v on'which they*, were 
established "a day-o'f Ignominy and 
iniquity.” naHinil-boon declared‘•’ by the l-asrist crund council. The da; wns made a holiday, flags flew from 
all buildings and there were numer­ous angrv demonstrations against 
t«e member.-natlnns.o/..the league.
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT has 
gone to Warm Springs, Ga., for his annual visit, and for ..three wcel« -will divide his time among 
rest, politics and. work.- He was to deliver one speech at. Atlanta; and 
after- his. return to Washington;he 
will lournev to Chicago to deliver en'<-addresa on December, ft whkh 
¦probably.'will. be an argument fer a permanent AAA. •,- Following his Chicago speech. 
President Roosevelt will go to South Fend. Ind.. to, accept an hon­orary degree and make a brief ad­
dress- at the University of Notre - Dame. The acceptance of this In­
vitation was considered an adroit 
political move because of bis re­
cent > refusal to take-., any action concernin'» the Catholic persecu­
tion* fti Mexico.-¦. C
w::v «=¦_rcusrf the'-tiork • rellef^rogriuu^caned.' on the President, he talked chiefly about taxes, which 
- he said “have grown 
np like Topsy In this country.” Ho 
then announced
call a conference 
.of city and state 
officials late In the winter for the pur­pose of studying the whole system 
of taxation which, he said, ahoiiid be 
simplified.-' Concerning theof continu-of rel tef, iJ r.'' ¦RooseVeit-'’ told' 
the mayors ^li is a Question thot "you have' 
to combat. Us answer, and 1 
sure yours will be the same 
city governments, Is that we do not 
propose, to let people starve. Some people will be surprised to find 
that the - gigantic works program will be substantially carried out by 
the end of November, "Just as it 
¡was planned last spring.”
’ The mayors elected F. H. ,fk 
Suardla of New York president of 
their ' flnfrual > conference. and . Ed-, 'ward J. Kelly of Chicago 'vice 
president.
C
HAIRMAN HENRY P. FLETCH­
ER of the Republican national 
committee Issued a call for a meet­
ing of the committee In Washing-
^convention :of-1936 .nnd^ta consider 
-the apportionment of delegates. It Was reported that Chicago was In 
-the lead among the cities seeking 
,the convention.
DAVID A. REED former senator from Pennsylvania; heretofore 
^considered a possibility for the Re­
publican Presidential nomination, itias eliminated himself -from the .'osmpetUlon,. .explaining,, that he 
iiacfcs "polltical-sex appeal;1'.: 'What 
?that is he couldn’t exactly define, :”but-he said: “Roosevelt 
i But I discovered Iasi venr that I ¡didn’t." He was benten last year ¦for re-election to the. senate. -
PRIME MINISTER STANLEY BALDWIN and his Conservative igot'ernment party won an Impres­
sive vlctorv In the British par­liamentary elec­
tions, although the Laborltes succeed­
ed lu decreasing the Conservatl ve major­
ity Id the house by 
about 60 seats. Baldwin himself, 
-was unopposed for re-election, bo t Ramsay '. MacDon­
ald, >lord president 
of the council and former, prime, mln- •4eterk-was-liadlT. de­feated. as was his . eon. rfalcoltn! who has been, minister of colonies. 
The elder MacDonald left the La­
bor party to form:the!natlonal gov- -eminent, and the Laborltes had been after , his scalp -ever - elnce. The 
government party will have a ma­jority of. about 250 In the neii house of-commons.- 
- "It was a .splendid: result." .Bald­win said-In a statement.-. vThe coun­
try has .renewed Its support of the national government, 
pressed decisively-its confidence In 
our will.and ability to contmue work for. national restoration • 
world peace.- . .- The newly elected members parliament meet at Westmlii
alleglfo tho <-take their oalh of
HANGOVER
THE LATEST FROSH -REBEL- liou comes from the Field House wheve “Koxy” Kapscak was taken ‘ r a royal ride by a baby basket- >r. Sez “Koxy’’ . . . Hey Plebe! ow come no regulations, you’re ) football player, .ma fran.
TEXAS JOE WILKINSON brought 'tack somethin' besides a dying Irawl and a pair of boots ... he :alls it "bird-dogging” . . . first you hunt your quarry . . . when sighted you .point ... if your
AT LAST WE’VE found why Bill Doc” Carlson is such a popular water boy . . . it’s that big bucket
TOSS A BONE to the only two males in the cast of the latest play . . . they’re "Snitzer" Ken­nedy and “Poodle” Koehler . . . tbey play the part of the howl in the phantom dog scene.
ORCHIDS. OR WHAT have you. to the Dramat Dept, for finally put- play enjo: strait' to. follow the plot or dialogue, t Its a sure 'cure for falling asleep . . . the show is .so fast 'ing that the.janitors removed
whether there B. a football game c
atmosphere for all thè Stage-door Johnnies . . . two charming, princi­ples of the show received bouquets
THE ‘ COMING , THANKSGIVING oamei "Kas m'ost;' of' "the-- -plg-skin' s - thoughtfully worried . . . not that man of “Might” Pow- der-Puil Patt ... his total abstrac­tion . . . whether to use crepe-de-
“MUSCLES” SUFON look the count in a physics lab the other day . . . anything going up or down igpkes him dizzy and out he goes . . . the Beta Slge should
rushing season.
RUSH1N.G STARTS. .NEXT week .' . . we predict” -big houses will get many-.pledges . . . tough go­ing for the small fry . '. any plebe who can go greek and doesn’t is missing half of what Tech can give.
ODD NOTES ON THE situation . . . some of the ATO boys plans to hide Blackwood's “nigger blue” t . . . but the others want to t it up mis with a little azure d make: a. banner for the front II . . . the Betas have been out the backyard used car lot fixing
that the directory Itself was so funny, but it was that apal- llngly ‘long list of .Belt names . . . Everyone rated full name . . . and jhe officers had. the singular dis­tinction of having their tltltes In ¦tot©.-..
MY GAWD AGAIN . . . Chet Wil­liamson will be back to help out Kappa Slgs Munster and Knapp . Van Valkeqburg i
plans to entertain the, freshmen
ifeo Scoops
Eraorv university, structor hypnotized a student for demonstration purposes and alter
cise and activity were prescribed for the victim, and after three days of being walked around the campus and taken for rides, be suddenly blinked and asked what had hup-
BALLS RETURNED BY PROXY Robot tennis seems to be. the latest fad in school sports. Tbe •University of IJorth Carolina cently purchased .a robot machine- which shoots SO-balls to every ner of the- court, at intervale of a few seconds apart. It may be placed at anv position, according to the tvpe of shot a player wishes to practice.
THE BAREFOOT BOY
it- supposedly being a faster and safer game than the Tegular shoe- clad variety. ' CulbAck .plays arc usually avoided- because the. shoe­less wonders can't hold the ground for. shift work. The passing .'at- tatk must be fast, for the thrower, is usually hounded by a pack of fast-charging -linemen. The usual equipment, consists of a jersey, trousers called "sailor-makers" and a sailor's hat.' Barefoot team: organized in leagues, according to the weights of players, from 100 to 170.pound8.
the Pi K A’s wants a fireplace built he hires two bricklayers and when both arrive at the same time wiih the materials ready to go to work Boutelle has to flip a coin and fire
Dragons in caps and gowi
THAT 25 POUND gobbler Add Gil­more was hauling'around was bor­rowed from Dick’s Poultry Mart on Penn Avenue and didn’t come from the Clyde Street hen coop . . tbe boid is a 'door prize and will be uressed to satisfy tbe deans ami the wiDner at the Pre-Pitt Game Thankegiviug dance, Wednesday night.
plebe lockers section
MINNIE GLEESON came back to Dramat Dept, and practically broke up the show . . . besides George Kittredge . . . her 6how iu Fhllly is. reported good.
KAPPA PHI DELTA bid 18—got 18 . . . the Gamma Phi Sigmas bid 19—got. 18 and the- Alphas
please tell-us poor fraternity -men what the secret of 'succes is.
NUMERALS RUSH JUST AHEAD ... it has.taken tbe Scimitars two months to get up the necessary
will be allowed- to Bit in wheel chairs and .watch the dance after­wards . . . big bonfire- if someone olse doesn’t burn up the pile as the field house boys did last year . . . Prendes et Co. those speechless cheerleaders will make-, motions for rniiro "enfhusiaBih.-
Ing Beta or Delt? . . . Gun Chew Greiner with Helen . . . Eleanor Bright . . . Harvey Nels . . .
Greek Notes
The Hotel Schenley last Friday was host to about 40. couples froi the Duquesne and’Tech chapters of Alpha Phi Delta. Their dance was a great social success. Before the Christmas holidays both chapters plan to hold a formal dance to which atuinnl end graduates will 6e • ylted.Wednesday .• night '.will • find the Pc’Td kicking the gong around. In Thistle Hall (Dragon adv’t.)
the addition of a new ping-pong table to their collection of sport- ing equipment-vfor'-.their/renqvated gameAlpha' Sigma Phi 1d both happy
post of faculty adviser to the fra-
and then to the -dance in Thistle Hall. Most of the brothers' who live nearby are going ..home for Thanksgiving vacaiiou -(no-kiddln)
Sweet whose wife died -November 19. 1935.. A tea Is to be held this week-end at the house for the girls
tv is to be held on Thanksgiving night. The affair is a barn dance, sorta. Decorations and coBtumes are in accordance with the dance title.Kappa Delta Rho is beginning Its rushing season with an Alumni s-ag dinner and smoker Decern-
splurging
firenlaces (wrecking bv Brother Duffy), new wall paper, new drapes, curtains, etc. The pride of the house Is a newlv decorated subter- raman game room finished in nau­tical style. Members plan to In­vade Thistle Hall in a-body follow­ing the pep rally.Time out Is being taken hy the D. U 's from social activities • to condition the house, for ruBhlng. Painting and decorating is- taking up most of their time. •Attention of the Tn-Pub staff Is called to the fact that Sigma Phi Eosilon was omitted in the frater­nity classification at the rear of the student directory. - . There was a full turnout at sAE night at the Chatter Box Monday, November 25.- Both Tcch and Pitt chanters welcomed SAE Brother Rudv .Vallee of the .-University of
Our Department of Drama di« plays versatility, if nothing else u its swift transition from Dllzabeli an history-tragedy to twentieth century mystery melodrama.
Those who like the euspeaee and excitement of a mystery thriller- (and -there-are few -*ho do not! will find la this week’s production “Ladles-in-Walting,” a swimi. 
paced,, actionrfilled „drama. Macb
of its success is the result of it^ presentation, for the play Ueelf while theatrically effective u nothing more than a pot-boiler.’with- iblnatlon of much of the nrin
able country house party 
stormy night, superstitious serv ants for comedy relief, the flurried society matron, the self-reliant and' clever detective, and with all that, an amateur .spiritual medium’ 
Cyril Campion, the author, ha«-
to originality .lies in the fact that its cast of characters Includes onlv' nine women. It Is safest not to dissect this play, for upon any careful analysis of situation, no. tive, or character, it woold almost: certainly fall to pieces.. Happily a- melodrama does not require careful anojysis. and apparently the audj. ence on the opening night, at least, resolved to take the play for what it was and concentrate upon solvi Ing the mystery.
The' mood of -the production lg-- set immediately, as the curtain rises upon complete blackness, re­lieved only by weird flashes of' lightning. The appearance of two form$ silhouetted against the win- do*w lf 'deVer èxpteined^but'serves'. Its chill-producing purpose. Tbe-' original situation, that of a house party stranded on a country es­tate on the eve of the marriage of the hostess’ niece, is absurd, bat manages to be acceptable.
The ploy concerns Itseir with the apprehension of the person In the- house who attempts to murder ths bride-to-be. This arch-villainess ft- discovered by an all-knowing lady detective, who always manages to- be at exactly the right spot at the right moment and whose services eyen go so far.as to. include a bit 'of -PQllyanna. advice, 'to*, the- bride. The guilty one' ia the 'Sne'leàsrBÜa- pected, of course, and her discotr ery really surprises the audience, which prefers very wisely to ignore • the many discrepancies of the play, particularly In the last act..
The cast Is well- bailanced and' unified. Three, persons In particu­lar aroused considerable comment. The prychlc Janet Garner, played' by Barbara Kocyan, was a most believeable neurotic, remarked by someone in the audience to bear a birong resemblance In several trays' to La Garbo. The cook, Mrs. Davi­son—-‘Emma SuesB—does an amus­ing mit of Yorkshire dialect. The hostess. Lady Spate—Marq Hubley" —ie the stock caricature of a filgli' ty .English lady.; ' She is so conviac-/ Ingly frivolous and Innocent, that' by Intermission half the audience, apparently trained- in solving mys­teries, suspects her of the crime. The other characters, almost with' exception, are adequately done.
swift and perfectly . timed, since melodrama has long been Professor Wallace’s forte. We feel that Mr. Gamplon owes much'to the Depart­ment of Drama; for making hiB play* effective*, for it Is In itaelf mediocre^ ' ‘cal of a certain“ weV modern drama.. EMILY KRAMER.
Dr. Ross Disputes 
Stand of A. A. V-
(Continued From PageJOne.) evy and Messiah. To. give nx- guldance, he has.come, unto u£- from the bench.Like Judge Jeremiah Mahoney.- St. Fraucis of Assisi also forsook a lucrative life “to get back iuUr the world’’ and do good. He, too, dispensed, guidance with a lavish hand, but upon different principles/ One day three thieves attempted to ¡rob his chapel. Instead of fcquYging- them, St. .Fraocfs.invited 
them’ to share a' 'pitcher of winu - ond a loaf of bread, which was all that remamed of his meager aUp'. plv of food; The thieves stayed the night and In the morning de-
His methods contra^ 
with those of the first missionary and Messiah, the founder of Chrl- tianitywho advocated compaaaio-- and the turning of the other cheeK, Our modern Jeremiah , wishes to make the Germans feel uncoin fortable. After we have hurt ibe.r feelings and-insulted .them, be pects to convert them to his way of thinking: and thus* to wean them from bigotry and hate. ,, He might'have better suited b- battle cry to liis principles had he made it "An eye for an eye a..a » Jew for a'Jew," though both tue 
principle and the cry -ill ttent Obviation even In flae-Bfild 
letics.
VCAREG Broadcasts 
| Centennial Program [
r------------------ uonUnucd From Page 1and women's- dormitory having u» highest standing for tlie P^t.J,.c?.. Dr. Roscoe M. Ibrig called thirty three new' memnera to -Pbi-Kai-P- Phi, all-school -jiatioual honorary Eighteen- were -called to-.T-u D PI: national engineering hono.J^bv Ricli&rd W. Deunlson ^6. i-
Sgrna -Delta, national arts called two-member». The cal- made by Frederick Crocker The program was concluded the singing of “Auld'Lang Syne 
by the-audience and an °rg^*,Lfiiplude-an allegro from-Wider s i
Symphonv.-played, by Clyde

---------------------------------------------------

Pla i d a R
SAUCE
?
By Scatty Charles
Ili mat '
cles MOpE THE TARTANS grasp their helrpets firmly and di 
under dog. Against the Pitt plgsklnnersthe Sklboe are given 
Oriental opportunity of emerging wl^the bacon. The 
- BB,S ia fcs Tach artd ten though the University gambler: 
very confident that their employes .will take the Fracas by at leas 
,touchdowns and the dressing.
THE FIELD HOUSE FIENDS nre really fueling pretty good about 
Ljini&e1® and tbis ljft in spirit may help iinmensely. it is readily Ljtled that the Panthers are «not up to last year's caliber and si 
Lie of spotty games make it look even a little better for the Car- 
i8 Merriwells. Also to be considered is the fact that at th&_time 
Caraepie students and football players (professional courtesy) \v 
¿tapping H*e books for midsemesters, the Gold and Bluers were hitting 
C lop of tlielr stride. They are- a tough bunch to beat In late Nov 
CrDon>«ller how the figures add up. '
PARAMOUNT AMONG THE FIELD HOUSE social ltem6 Is the 
Id Loveless Sanford has been promoted to floating end by 
sent. With this Is mind, Lehman has taken up swimming 
Sanford as the mentor. The burning question at present Is 
jffftat will happen to Rlsedorph with Sanford at floating end?”
ANOTHER ONE OP THOSE unconfirmed rumors is’afoot s 
lus It on to you ns such. The boye in the know have ft that this will 
Luielast PiU-Tech Thanksgiving fray as the University ie unsatisfied 
JjiS the total and groBB-'profits derived In years past. With a nasty 
1» to lucre they are putting on. the Carnegie game and another time 
lei having the Panthers play Peon State on Thanksgiving . . ‘
i'UeirBnyb»dy-Wto]d>yoii.- ' .
CONCERNING LAST WEEK’S RUMORS they persist in 6plte, of 
itnlats from people who should know. At this time of the yeafr alt 
Eilada of juicy dirt floats about but we can’t print It without a reason 
Ibltdtgree of surety, For further details you might as well write'to 
r Congressman.
A LAST MINUTE CALL FROM THE PITT NEWS gave us. little 
Unnatlon about the oncoming game except that Bobby' LaR.ua, a neat 
Ettle halfback, will probably be out'of the melee due to Injuries and 
pending Southern Cal game. On the Tartan side of the books— 
? are still saving Anderson for the Rose Bowl.
bp IBSoc op!p q.BOpWqP'1p'Pcq­,qGSqto -theiamateur gridders. 
¡tut Saturday the boya from the Art School exchanged blows In the 
¿owl as the Dramate and Architects mixed It up. As we went to .
Sfift tally was not yet In but we . can. certainly say that Georga Lloyd 
jbofttd like all-American stuff. Ae to striking nearer home, the Tar 
neere and the puppets mix It upln the Bowl on Thanksgiving mo 
g, The guests departed for their respective homes at an. early hou 
r. Boutetle poured.
Skibos Ready 
To Meet Pilt 
' Thanksgiving
Continued From Page One.)’’- 
standing sophomore, who sparkled 
st week and. against the Army, 
111 he In at full. . '
The line-up for Carnegie w 
probably remain the same ns In tl 
Holy Cross game. Charlie Spisak 
is a cinch* for the signal bark- 
Napotnlk is the logical choice 
for the fullback position, with Grad 
or Douglass spelling him off. LeU- 
raay be In'shape'for. the eeme, 
but his hands and side, which have 
been bothering him all year, .will 
probably' keep him out of tl 
starting Hoe. Matelan will see 
great deal of action, if his per-
break into the hopes of a repeat combination with Jerry Matelan in the overhead at­tack, co-captaiu Sputzie Terebus. who is playing his laBt game under the Plaid, will probably alternate at half with Matelan. Coach Harp* eter has been using Terebus da a spot player In most of the games.
Co-captain Steve Trbovicfc. also making his last stand for the Skibos, wilt lead the line from the center hole on the offense, and as­sume bis usual duties of backing up the line on the defense. Jock Sutherland •• stands to take over the office of left guard on his able play so' far this season. Frank Chyzowski holds down the other guard post. Nestor.Henrlon should climax a splendid year’s record at left tackle. The other places' are open, tt> conjecture,. but Hall will likely be In -there'-at'-tackle,” and Sanford, Keller and Moore alter­nating at the terminal posts.
Pitt and Carnegie will be de­pending somewhat on sophomores.
Carnegie's - Matelan - and Rosen­thal have filled very well the places left last year by graduation. Pat­rick flashes for Pitt,
The comparative scores of the season so far this year rates tho Scots several markers better than the Pitt luggers. The Plaid made a flying trip to Purdue several weeks ago to upset the dope all over the place. Pitt went to New York .a little later and engaged the Fordham Rams In a hair pulling contest to finish, 0-0. This looks good' for the Laddies, for Purdue walloped the rambling ' Rams earlier -this season. ,Some citizens discount this logic, however, li I view of the fact that Pittsburgh re | cently gave the boys a raise. The
Panthers Unimpressive 
In Early Victories 
This Season
* —Courtesy of Pittsburgh Preai
The gentleman lugging the leather In this pleasing tableau Is one I boys. In the above scene Mr. Rnndour started around an end but stop- Mr. Randour oF the Pitt Panthers. The Skibos expect to see a great peri for a bit after a few of the boys showed **•- * deal of Hub.-thls.TJHirs.day pnd hope that he will atop a bit with the I The gentleman on the left tackles
Miscellaneous Dope On Pitt-Carnegie Game
3—itfotre Dame.14 6—N. York U.. .26Carnegie......... 0—Temple ----13Carnegie........ 7—Purdue...... 0Carnegie......... 0—Duquesne .. 1Carnegie........ 0—Holy CroBS. 1
Panther Contest Sees 
SevenAivaitFinalBattle
M[otte',:i&tiiefl‘ showed ,tha.t-the. t' teamB should' be '‘about as evenly] matched as two teams can be. The Carnegie lads bowed 14-3, and. the HllUboye from Oakland watched the Ramblers mark up. 9 points to thelv six.
This Installment of the annual affair Jooks like, the best, for nt years, with ; the . lads | from Ihe park In a position ' »-from Befilnd and humble the •I high-flying Panthers.
CARNEGIE
Patt .......
Hennon .... 
Sutherland . 
Trbcmoh 
ChyczewBki .
Hall ...........
Moore ........
Spieak____
Terebus . :.. 
Lehman .... 
Napotnik .. .
.L. E.. 
L. T.. 
.1. 6..
QB
H.B.. 
.H. B.. 
.P. B..
PITTSBURGH I
......... Souohak
............Danieli
.........Glassford
I......... Eliskey
___Dalle-TesEe
....... Detzel
............ Sites
....... Michelaon........ Randour
....... Shedlosky
___ Patrick
. We learn by remote control that I will please not answer, cnlls."- 
it* (Iris In a nrteln kMriloel. *
nò,.se' at the Dniveralty órwisco,,.1
sin now have, placed little placai ds e(j the.boarding houne and iv deep 
up beside the phones J» the house. mAsc»IJ»e voice answered, "Third 
The placards say, “Gentlemen | Floor."
.. G—Noire Dame . p-—Penn Slate . .. 0—'Fordham.29—Army ........ R—Nebraska .,
Probnbly the most uhique uchol- arsfclp in America- is one offered by Hamilton Collegq. Worth $600, it Jle opeii to alHfhen-In -America by tho name of Leavenworth.
Just after passing out papers for a philosophy final, a Fordham pro-
Pitt Schedule 
Shows Victory 
Over Teams
Notre Dame Downs 
Pitt„E"k, Dö-J ___rìla ut UUUlll ÜCUU
Gold and Blue Defeats Army» 
Nebraska, Wayneeburg, 
W. Va. aod W. & J. •
hen Jock Sutherland took his 
1936 foothnll squad to Camp-Ham*- 
llton early this fall, the hopes of. 
another uudefeated Beason wore.. 
indeed small. However, the Pan­
ther’s showing todato.islmprca- 
slve in spite'of one setback.
The opening gume of tho season - enled many defects 'In a aoph-
Improvcd, though they managed to . roll up only ' two touchdowns against n mediocre W&J aggrega­tion. ... ..•
The Mountalneors eyed the 1936 contest ns n great opportunity to. trip' up tho Ponthers In what ap­peared to be on off-scasoQ. How* ever, the West Virginia game marked the start o ‘ the upturn toe Pitt. The team's blocking and tackling had Improved, and an ex­cellent exhibition of football re« •BUlted'^BS thB'Mountalneers were crushed, 24-6.'
Notre Dame, with a wealth ot.
victory over the Plttsburghors xrtth one of their sonsatlonal last min­ute comebacks In which Peters kicked n field goal that won the game by 9-6.The following week-end Penn- State brought to Pittsburgh their host team since non-subsidization set In and they held the Panthers- -
pbovich, Spisak, Moore. 
Sanford, Bowser, Boyd, 
Rugged Sophomores
in Last Game for Plaid; 
Kohout also Through; 
Expected to Fill In
donned the Plaid for the list time, will run. along Bide o( lads who; havevseyeral.more sames to play before- fianging.'up
Among these players will be co- aplain Steve Trbovlch, a worthy tenter whose càrèer ' - has«-been Barked with spots of glory and aedlocrecy Steve has always teen bard worker At the middle of the ne, and several opposing back­ed men will be glad to learn that * Is ready to call it quits.Paul Moore is also giving his breweil appearance for the Skibos. ff little of the glorious, side, ame until this year, his first mons on the squad being most- ptmdèrsliidiea. for?thoae.ace .ends, [fb 'Lewis and'Re'd Stewart-1 This " however, saw Moore play- r? Quite regularly and quite ef-
Tho versatile Charley Spisak PW adieu next Thursday with prd he can feel well proud of result of his efforts.- Charley always been the answer to
Harp’s prayers, filling in at any position left vacant by injury or other jinxes and always doing as well or even better In his new job. The most outstanding of, these fetes-.was: in.;.the only, bright spot of 'Carnegie’s--1935 football* séàsotì when he quarterbacked a seeming­ly outclassed Plaid eleven to a glor­ious 7-0 victory over thè then un­defeated Purdue Boilermakers.
Always giving a fine account of himself In any encounter he was In was the popular Goon Sanford, an end of no disputable prowess, who-iym say goodbye to the Field House too. Frank was'ftlways con­
sidered rugged by the brain power behind the pigskin wan-iors and he well lived up to the faith put in him. He was in there wheneven he could, breaking up' runs before they started and giving the passii flashes no end of difficulty.-
Owen Bowser was ,one of the most outstanding stars on the Plebe team in his first year at Tech. Much was expected of him 'by Harp'ster for his:future. Owen did not quite live up to these great expectations; Possessed with a world of speed plus a quick work­ing football, mind, Owen could never quite overcome a sort of jlt- teryness which resulted In several costly fumbles. However, this year it'seemed as if he had finally got­ten rid of this fault for-he gave
Women’s Athletics
By Margie Green
By Margie Green
; If you don’t hilnd, dear readers 
Wlmlsm), i am about to request 
‘ Personal favor that is contrary 
^ convention of the. press. How
uid YOU like to pretend that J** w last Friday, just to, help rt .-a Poor, harraeaed reporter, *w, try as she wlltf flhds it im- «« We to play “prophet’’ There ? I confess.; when I may , :6 unintentionally exaggerated •OKnce bit of news.v padded space en new5 was scarce, and even ¿‘ten up an event before it o* «Ted—an merely tricks of the 
Jz*' my little ones: This week. , erer, i frankly admit, defeat, 
, imagination.has reached its c concerning the: moat import- jj news of the week.r the' W.AiA. ^ent.on. The chief . difficulty j?ln fact f at the convention ¿*\ (or took) place: on NoVem- ^ 22 and 23, at Penn: Stace Col- • It will be history, of. course. . you read about It - but how ^e world shell.I report on It be- 
aclually happens? • Let’s W ? then, ae I .suggested.- .h^ v "- l“at today is last Friday, and
I shall give you the low down the plans ' at least 
v.Three W.A.A. representatives from each of several colleges will Cvngregate at State College on Fri­day morning, .at 11 o’clock — an excellent'' opportunHy Mr a few bare-faced cuts (of classes, you goon); After, registration,,luncheon will be served>to all. delegates, fol-; lowed by a general business meet­ing There will bfe ft formal din-, ner that evening (more speeches), and so to bed (maybe). Brjght and earlv next mom we shall partake of mountain, scenery , at a meeting 
in the ’ W.A.A. log cabin,. with good, healthy hike to boot,. I hope
diatelv bv a Mortar Board installa- of which spells ; the local coeds, that yours truly 
is about to shuffle ofTfor a pretty big one herself, accompanied by, President Wettach and Dotty; Booth- 'With, the trusty, little V-8 (adv.) - and . three houra 
were off!
| Boyd, a swell center, and Howie Kohout. a guard, who was always In their fighting, although-he was not quite rugged enough to make the grade. .
Fraternity Bushing 
StartsJDeeeinber -2
— ConUmrfEpiiilPwJ.—T. DU’s to bring this unpleasant pub­
licity to a head just before rush' 
ing season." He-asked why charges ! 
were made so late for an offense! 
committed in September. - i
William Holliday answered for 
Delta Upsilon by Stating that, the 
matter hud only recently1 cotire to the attention of his fraternity. < 
The case was investigated • by. Henrv Lehne. Pi Kappa Alpha, and Irving : Gruber. / Beta .Sigma Rho. who was absent.
Mr. Lehue urged that the matter be settled immediately and-not allowed to..rest..
¦ At the time the. infraction waa -made SAE was not'under, the-jur­isdiction of ; Interfralernity Coun- ciL Only recently was the frater- |_nity reinstated.
Four. years ago similar -charges of rushing- rule misconduct were leveled at Delta TJpsilon bv Delta Tau Delta. The -charges were proved and DU was fined and lost the privilege of intramural compe­
tition.

---------------------------------------------------

Turkey Days Are Here AgainKiltie Band Lines Up to Have a Picture Taken at the Half of the Duquesne Game
A Grange sight at the Administration when the spon- 
i or^ of the Thanksgiving Dance tied their door prize to a 
' moil box.
Pipe the Fipemajo r
Mr. John Blackball, Department of Heat Treating and 
Forging, headed the nine Scottish bagpipers.in tho centennial] 
parade thia morning. He is a. charter m*mbex :oi the fasnoro 
48th Highlander Regiment of Toronto, Canada, and saya that 
yon have to know your pipes to play them.
School vf Apprentices and Jouurneymen (1906)Powers Behind Plays of Tartans, Panthers
The uLadies From Hell” Who Will Attempt to Twist the Panther’s Tail
Front row, 16ft to'right1—G.Spifl^-Chyczeiwski, Patt, Henrion, Boyd, Moore, Co-Captam Trbovich, Oo-Gaptain Terebus, Bowser, Kohout, Sanford, Lehman, Kelly, Hall. Second row—As­
sistant Coach Irwin, Schmidt, Ch&llinor, Gartz, Napotn ik, D waresky, Slaminko,: James, Lorenz,. Kopcsak, Miscevics, Yeknich, Douglass, Magee, Head Coach Harpster. Third row—Manager 
Schmid, Assistant Coach Mihm, Irwin, Sutherland, Eos enthaJ, Kawcb&k, Dubrayn, Keller, Didomenico, Fryer, Miklaucic,- Grad, Matelan,. TrainerMunhall.. These boys will go into the game
u the tinder dogs but may ---------------------—1----'—'--------
come out on top. The Tartans 
have been pointing7 for Pitt 
during the last two weeks.
The First Home of Andrew Carnegie
Carnegie Waves Farewell to Pittsburgh
rV oottlg« lll DTunfwUM BootUnd, wiiM« *lldr*w O»m«ei* vu bom ud lived The it«el wimd wivei * fond farewell u ha and Hn. Carnegie leave Bait Liberty tta- 
' *ge of thirteen. -... - Ition in 1914 on hu lart vuit to the city when ha ohmbid the ladder of auooetf
Our Founder’s Skibo Çàstle]
The magnificent oastle on Scotland’s Donoch Firth wh®1* 
Carnegie spent his summers A far ory from the tiny cottog® 
in Doaferhne where he vu bont
-

---------------------------------------------------

glamorous Evening Fashions 
Herald Holiday Season; 
Accessories important; Too
buttons Interesting Point 
OF Dress; Suggest 
New Headlights
By Elva Hendel .
The Holiday Season Bd certainly
«mouocii'g its arrival by means 
. lte glamorous oveing fashions! 
eI0S as it our very dreamB are 
. w|tjl tied. ‘Remember that 
gorgeous gown isn’t all you need, 
lake oar breath away! The eye-
¦iea are important, too, 
^ mere are ' so many stunning 
novel things, you . shouldn't be 
„id 10 please.
Your white matelasse satin inrmal with the 'flattering cape 23 bas drama in line ns well color. The. pleated, shirred d the rhinestone clip' at i If
[UU, — sequin hag, accented by ulnule gold-threaded glass beads ^¡11 match the shimmer, ot your ojtAt Of course, you must have .ures, and six-button evening -(-¡ores of lusciously eoft kid are
more P°Pu,ar than ®yer-Should you' chooae the gnm-metal trinhled lame gown which features lie daring decolletage of this ex- ilUsg season, you will want, one of these new fans. They are made ’ot large pressed velvet' leaves,
Bing. The Blender shoulder straps
ed lo match. The dress doubles, ita invitations with- a hip length jacket, set off by a stand-up quilt­ed collar. To make yourself even more different, wear a chenille braid of bright green, clasped with
with the braid, choose the gold bracelet of mesh strands with glowing green stones. As a final iltractlon, don’t resist the trans­ient velvet wrap: -.with- the ¦nook's hood that changes to a m\ collar at will.We all crave for a dress with plenty of Z1ZZ. ..and''the '.“p.ebiiit" Uet Vogue talks about for debut­antes certainly has it. It is a per­fect dream of a costume. The dieBB alone is banded-Wlth..velvet and 11 bas a goddess-like grandeur.
closely in the front. The metal- embroidered flared jacket with long, flowing sleeves and buttons half-way down make it 100-proof in charm and usefulness. A- cluster bracelet of tiny seed, pearls would be the lonch for this creation.Chihon still holds the spotlight for formal evenings.. In the whirl o( gay night life they stand' out as amonc the loveliest of the eve- nine fashions. Styled with a float- ing grace and ravishing in color, ibey have a youthful elegance and a smart sophistication. A beautl- fol model is in a gorgeous shade of Imie green and. for all its sim­plicity, it Is formal in the grand manner. The wisp of a bodice is molded close to the bodv- and be-
WUi y•l-coloi1 brilliantly gleam
•tone di e 
C°¿p ]
tog sloi
New Button Trimmings fluLons have come a long, long *ay—il0w they are the- most ill- ¡ng pomt oi your simple day* s. Fasten yourself into s with lobster claw?.belt with scallop shells, uicsnns at your WTlst and Jiecklinc. studs are the solution to laundry and cleaning- problem. Jou can take them out of the wesa or costume so they are never «u»hed or ripped off. There are ,Ma iiiadc of leather, of real nuts of cabachon stones, gold mask, a key. a padlock, a porcelain flower—real- o end to the Intriguingto there Mon*
aii of difference __________Evening Hed Llahts 
oh1 the winter evenings bv .^nglug your appearance in gay. «1 ways. It doesn't take a new ¡J®3 t0 make jou.Iopk fr<=sh— 
A7„ a. cliai'§e in head-lights. Part •fw ha., m the center and clip a -sior of tiiiy gardenias over each 
¡T' or. 'vear a bracelet of them eacl, wri»t. If you wear rib- «n- well, fasteu a narrow band of 
.¿I61.. nlJbon around your head ..n the Prince of Wales' three ^aers mounted over vour . left
iiM«/ g 0 f holly—<jr.a'spray of IcoT 0a *eav®s--' Wear 'a; golden ovci your hair when you go 
MCN; dinner—it forms a- capeWn r shouldera and is as in- j. a0 a new wrap. Wear , a 
rto n° vluueaton birds on one iKiv c,er> 01 a tiny rhinestone robin 
Therf ’ rert breast.:-Goodness!. V k7 “re °o many-lngenious ways, 
Uat uUl cllve no~wonder^hin mlsse9 *>i today- artt'so
;SDa-o0Uo Thanksgiving to you all. turkey—remember, your
ihe small BChool'a prob- tna<•c.0,-'tainHig. enough football .Qn.ii -1- flye Iowa higl* schools of e-Mollment have - formed a 
e an<* agreed, to develop 'Wiyer 0 a*K rather • than eleven
Miles Bouton 
Presented At 
F or um Lecture
American Correspondent
Lived for 25 Years In 
Nazi Germany
¦*I have lived under a dictator-, 
ship fpr one and a half years, and 
I say with.all my heart that De­
mocracy with all its faults and in. 
efficiencies, is infinitely superior to 
any substitute yet offered out 
world.”So speaks S. Miles Bouton, Amer-
Economic and Political Affi in Europe at last Monday night’s Community Forum meeting it Schenley High School.
League of Nations 
A strong believer in the League
Our fear of foreign entanglements is a lot of bosh. These enangle-' ments are here and cannot be avoided—every American ship, ca­ble, and tourist is an entanglement To prevent war we must work for the ’'over-throw of. :Mus9ollnl'' and' Hitler, (and Join the League pf Nations. Democracy will have to be defended or we will have to give up being tree.’’do not join the League
him; and not to the millions of
try and life.
Rule of Terror In Germany 
Mr. Bouton was forced to leave Germany last, year because he re­ported too much of the truth, and 'telling the truth is not in line with. Hitler’s policy. Mr«.Bouton knew Hitler well, he describes him as the most insignificant in appear­ance of all the statesmen in Europe—"very round arms and legs, large hips, brown hair and
savage antl-semite, Ignorant ot fi­nance and economics, mystic and believes himself sent
not stand much more of the medieval terror -and horror, that Hitler is forcing on them. If there seeips. to be unity, in Germany. -, it is the unity of the chain - gang. And where there a free press and an honest election in. Germany. Hitler would not even-get 50 per cent of the votes.
Sovlent. Union For Peace 
"speaking of the Soviet Union. I am satisfied that she is for peace, and will never fight unless she is invaded. She needs peace to carry out her plan of rebuilding: which seems to be successful although I am not.m sympathy with-it.--
Tcch’s Brief History 
Oue of Rapid Growth
(Continued From Page Three) 
adopted. In the following year the name Camegio Technical Schools was chauged to Carnegie Institute of Tcchnoloey. The school of-Ap- plied Design (now College of Fine Art«) was completed and for the first time all fouv schools were housed in their respective build­ings. Machinery Hall was com­pleted’ in 1912-1913,Was -^9The growth of Carnegie^. Tech during the first five years was truly lihenomenal. The student enroll­ment had risen to more than 3.000. the Faculty to over 200. and Mr. Carnegie’s endowment and build­ing fund had increased correspond­
ingly.During the war two long rows of barracks were built from Wood-
the Quadrangle and thousands of soldier» came from distant training camps to.re­ceive classroom instruction. .One of the “Y” huts built during the war' uow contains ouv campus li­
brary.The seven men’s dormitories fin­ished in 1919 were named for Tech students who fell in the World War. War memorial trees were
Carnegie, passed away.Dr- Hamerschlag’s resignation .Tulv 1. 1922. was followed by the installation of Dr. .Thomas S. , Ba­ker as acting president and then as president early in i»2a.Gym Completed In 1»24 The Gymnasium building was opened for use- in - February, 1»24, September of the same year the athletic field house was remodelled Carnegie Inn.
with the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology March. 1930. The following month Dr- Charles Watkins was appointed alslstant to the presi­
dent: The first professor • appointed to the faculty. Alexander Jay Wurtz, died January. 1932. In the same month "Thistle Hall • was com­pleted and first-used. The Brown
property “ ................chas« ' ’ her.
Architectural 
Plebes Find 
Going Tough
Juniors Skirmish With 
Freshmen When Skibo 
Duty Is Shirked
LOWLY ONES HAVE 
SPIRITS DAMPENED
Traditions of Department 
Resume Despite Timid 
Sophomore Group
By Joe Thomas 
As a result of a skirmish be-, 
tween the members of the junior 
class and themembers of the 
freshman class in the Department 
of Architecture, the aforemen­tioned freshmen are again observ­ing the formalities of plebe regula-
last fall the freshmen in that de­partment have gradually dlscard- the distinguishing marks of
I by the timid looks <I the second year boy,. The sophomores, having the small­er amount of manpower, had come lo the Btage where they dared not suggest that the plebes should un­dergo their regulations, although it must be said to their credit that once in a while one of' the boys would slip up to ' tie ' freshman
from the freshmen.For some tifne, this condition was allowed to exist with no: particu-
“Skibo Duty.”' (“Skibo. Duty" is a time-honored tradition In the Architecture department the ob­servance of which causes the fresh­men to take orders for. and deliver refreshments and' supplies for the
weaker sisters of the sophomore class. After a hurried consultation, the juniors decided' to award: the plebes some sujtfrble'-trophy as- a
without further-cefemony the fresh­men were presented with several Iiie-size busts—in the mouth. The plebes likewise-had a.few busts
honor in itself, for -before this oc­casion the sink had been reserved solelv for those students who had distinguished - themselves by • re­ceiving first mentions- ' from the Beaux Arts Institute of. Design.With-thelr spirits., among: other things, dampened the now lowly plebes retreated to their own lines. Needless to say. the architectural traditions - of the school are : once more observed.
Music Recitals
Open to All
Phonographic Concerts 
In Exhibition Room
The Department of Music con­
tinues Its series of phonograph re­
citals held at 4:a0 on Monday; and 
12:30 on Wednesday and-Fpday in 
the Exhibition room of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts. ; -
On Mondays. Dean feeble, con­
ducts recitals- presenting -in suc­
cession compositions of Bach. Mo-> 
Schubert . Beethoven, and 
ms. On Wednesdays. Mr. Pear­
son presents recordings of cham­
ber music. In the Friday recitals. 
Professor O’Brien is tracing - the 
development of opera;
The programs were planned In 
response to the requests of stu­
dents who attended the first of 
them. These recitals are open -to 
all who~ wish to'attend. - -
Former Students 
Now on Stage
Manv former Carnegie Tech" drama- studentB Are-now-employed professional. actors. • Patti Llt-
Theater. - Don Bennett, whom know as. Don Bonhoff. is cast In "Tobacco Road. ’ Mr. Bennett left Tech in 1932 without graduating. The • leading character in "Play, Genius. Play.” Is Hardie Albright ’26. Mary RIcard. '20. . a recent performer in ^-The Old-Maid, - is In Nesr- -Yori-^reparteg-T^Toy.--aiwifees- play. Miss RIcard is the .wife of actor Charles Romano. Don Will- at the Nixon last week in “The. Old Maid/’ In the cast of "If This Be ^Treason-/ Is Regis Joyce ’35. Rosemary Car-
can beauty. Paul Pauersmlth jf1, la in the cast of -:;Let ¦ Freedom 
Ring.’
Honor Course Students 
At M; I; T. More Successful
Study of Honor-Group Graduates Shows Per Cent 
Of Unemployed To Be Small; Employers Give 
High Ratings; Students Approve
setts Institute of Technology, the conclusion has been, reached that engineering students trained- to in­dependent thinking and Investiga­tion in so-ceilled' honors - courses have been generally more'success- ful i'n finding.jobs and in making
recitation method.
.These results are the more Re­markable, since in the past stu­dents .who attained high marks un­der the old methods were some: times actually-avoided by. the em­ployer; Distinction was more like­ly to come to those who had spent tlielr time for independent obser­vation and thinking.A Pioneer Adventure •The success of the "honors” plan at M. I. T.. is noteworthy also ^s
applies during the junior and nior year to selected students who have made application for the privileges. The student is not re­quired to attend regular classes but is expected to advance himself through laboratory work, through extensive reading, by attacking more comprehensive problems, and by more intimate contact with staff members.
pal subjects of the students' field. Instead ot the usual term examina­tions - and miscellaneous quizzes, there are two comprehensive ex-
atninutions, one at the end of the 'junior year and one at the end ot the senior year. A two-week period is set aside for writing answers to these, examinations.Brlofs Also Required
pers designed..to test - the knowl-
results under pressure of limited time.'" . -
Res.ulte of the Plan ¦ The number who have completed
notable number who have pursued their education .further, a notable number of contributions ouch publications and invent!
method of education. u - Only two of the graduates unemployed, and the employers re­plying have rated 85 to .95 per cent of the men as eltl "outstanding” in tec Initiative, resourcefulness, judge: ment, .willingness, to apcept-respon­sibility, and willingness to cooper­ate. With.-a few exceptions, the oldest men on the list are about thirty yearB of age.
America Will Be in Next 
European War Say Students
Statements from Students Selected at Random 
Indicate That Country Will Be Forced'Into 
Entanglements by Selfish Financiers
Thé following statements were 
made - by - students selected - at 
random to answer the question, 
"Do you think America can keep 
oiit of the -next European war?”
“I do not think the people of 
United States are - intelligent enough to avoid war if a few in­dividuals bring one about to sat: isfy their own intereBt”—Robert McMaster '56, Eugineerlsg.“If the United States army were kept on United States soli and the
into "consideration; I donbt-if-Unltfr ed States would be involved In the European conflict '-rrStuart Q. Bal- Un '38 Englnering.“United' States can’t. Btay out of this world war. if the. capitalists continue to consider their, super­fluous wealth .more-important than the lives of the youth of America. —Eugene 'Simons. f7. Engineering."Yes.- we have'learned a- lesson from the losses In • other wars/ — Rose.serrao f7. .Arts."We can stay out-of the next war onlv as long as .the. munition manufacturers . and :.stdel makers are kept satisfied with- their pres* ent profits.”—S. Lowell Stine ofi, Engineering.
'«6. Engineering.
protect their own interests,, the fl- nanclalclass. just as tliev have done in the past, will try to drag in the masses of people in any strug* gle.- Onlv the- protests- of all- peo-
the belligerents she will, eventual- lv be drawn m.-—Elizabeth Ram- sev •»?. Arts.••United States can preserve Amerlcau 'peace' by- refusing to be affiliated with the League.-—John Cacheris -aa. Arts."No. When the World War start­ed United States satd she would not enter but was drawn in bv pro­paganda. It'll be the same if an-
—Dolores Thompson :a9. Margaret Morrison."If the capitalists • are satisfied with - their present amount of wealth. America - can stay- out of the next European, war."—fl . Wal­ter Gogglns -d8. Arts. .. . . ."No. No such thing as Isolation!
America’s affairs and interests bound too closely to those of European countries. America has had her finger in the pie too long lo take It out now.”—Mary AlklnB ’38, Margaret Morrison. - 
. “The majority of people do not
Bobbin-Boy to Riches 
Was Rise of Carnegie
. ----ConlinvedfnimPaml.-___ -.
two Interesting particulari
and it Is the only one of-his foundations the products of which are not books, or scientific- form­ulae. or awards for heroism, or pen­sions for teachers, or proposals for peace, but generation after genera­tion-of young men and women com­petently trained to play their parts
providing funds for a 'Bchool of technology in Pittsburgh;:::-;Ins his letter of gift to the mayor. of-Pltts• burgh were the words. -My. heart is in the work.” a phrase that wae later given permanent» significance;
teen -years that passed-belween tli opening of the school fM la05. and his death. Carnegie made five vis its-: to the campus^Andrew Cavnegie-died on August
Aeronautical 
Course Needs 
Development
One Hundred Students 
Versed in Theory 
Lack Practice
GLIDER TRAINING 
AIDS NEW PILOTS
Stucents Who Have Received 
. Soarmg Lessons.Make 
Better Progress
By Victor Saudek 
Aeronautical ‘Engineering Is a 
popular course at Carnegie Tech— 
a course with & definite future» and, 
-although it .^‘cannot be'given undue 
prominence; it is necessary to de­
velop this department until it has 
the respect of every other college
long-in the country.The future of aviation Is er in doubt. It Is the coming method of transportation, and America now leads the world In that field. There are nearly one hundred studenta uow at Carnegie Tech taking Aeronautical Engineer- given . excellent
is comparable to a blind painter if
iveral airplane and pay flight instructors, but there ST an­other way,- and- that Is through the' ancient art of gliding. Here are n few opinions: . v. . •.Colonel J. Carrol Cone, Assistant Director of Air Commerce in the U. S. Department of Commerce, has said, “I am informed the pilots who
airplane course in CO per <
mere sport and fun.”
i otherthe controls. There reasons—”Carnegie Tech has a glider club which needs the support of the whole college If it Is.'to. progress. The glider club Is willing to train Aero students,'to carry on-Valua­ble research work In meteorology.
the Germans* world distance rec­ords of 313 miles or their altitude record of 14.600- feet above point of take-oft.Carnegie Tech. with its wind tunnel and shops, with-the Bpirlt of its' professors' and ' students.' with Its excellent location. Is able to become the country's leading aeronautical engineering school
The years had - taken their in­evitable toll on his streneth. and the World War. to a man who had worked so long and so devotedly in the cause of peace, did much
spent his summers a*t' Skibo Castle, for three years. His grave Is in; Sleepy Hollow Cemetery. Tar- rytown. N. Y.. overlooking the Tap- pan .Zee. one of. the nioBt beautiful reaches of the Hudsou. river. •
SCREEN DEBUT OF THE GREAT BASSO
FEODOR CHALIAPIN:* 
a* “DON 
QUIXOTE”
Student Tickets at Christian • Association and - Mr. Kenyon'e office..
NOW-SHOWING •
ART (¡I1CMR
i oiilblrt Uàvî;îj
SKIBO INN• 6100 Margaret Morrleon Street
• Delicious Breakfast, Lunch and Supper 
• Soda Grill Service
Under: Management of
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOMForbes Street and Oakland Avenue
MILK
. DRINK PLENTY . . ; . it's a 
healthy habit'for winter days 
-when the Summer Pep runs low.
BusCK’S TVl I r-^9 
'TA ILIOrIRrN 
AO^G LO^ICO' A.D
RIECK’S
ICE CREAM
NOVEMBER SPECIALS
1 At Your -Dealers
ICE CBEAM OAEE BOLL
. . (All Uurlng the month)
ICE CBEAM PUMPKIN PIE
•(Thanksgiving D*y only.)----•..
for Quality
Electrical Engineering Professor
Devises New Static Eliminator
New Yorkers Start Drive 
For Suppression Of 
Needless Noise
By Philip MorrUen 
Mid-cemester Just having been 
completed, many, a poor deluded 
C-l to -5 student is wondering 
Just whnt: there is to this mathe­
matics. Good news for this class of fellows has Just arrived.. To n meeting last -week of the New York section of-the .Institute of Radio Euglneers, Major. Edwiu H. Armstrong, professor of electrical engineering ' tit Coiumbiit. - and 
vontor of the regenerative .. “blooper1’ creutt, which is the most essontltal circuit in radio work, nounced a real' discovery. '
Signals from the Empire State building. have consistently been found, static-free when the new Armstrong devices were used. In the midst of lightning Btorms when broodcasts were filled with crash­ing noise, the two-and-a-hair meter signal he generated was clear a bell at its maximum range, • He uses a system for static elimina­tion which, to quote him, “flies di­rectly in the face- of nil previous mathematical deductions.” Ordin­arily expertB have considered that the narrower the band ot frequen­cies passed ,by a. receiver, ‘ the
quartz crystal filter cuts .out of tho noise. But Armstrong uses a band md wide as he can poBslbly make It, so wide that he sends facsimile pictures and musio'at the same time without Interference. And still he eliminates nose of the same amplitude as his signal! Tech­nical data are not yet In print, but the writer suspeots that the meth­od involves frequency modulation. 1. e., Instead of producing sound by varying the strength of the radio .carrier wave. Its frequohcy is vo led. At all events, it looks like .victory . for the non-mathematlcal.
Much ado lo made today about
:essary noise, (which unkind persons have -suggested be­gin by suppressing Mayor La Guardla). ¦ So in London' a study of city nolseB is being made. They find that the most unnecessary racket is the noise of the motorcy­cle. a quiet, new motorcycle at top speed has. a nolBe level of 106 db. This is about the Baroe qb i well-conducted boiler works.- Sport
among vehicles.' So you . fellows
Instrument, called the capsule'type.
Mr. Schonvlzner. of the Depart-
ment ot »Electrical Engineering, 
with his student'.assistants, has' 
cpnstructed a noise meter, and is 
contemplating the construction of. 
a noise analyzer, which will record 
the level .of all the components of 
any sound, E noise survey of Car« 
negle will be interesting.
All things change with (Jmo. Even the telephone, as familiar as your name. Is going to be different. U is nn.outgrowth of the instrument used as niicrophones-ln radio- prac-
; It passes sounds -from-160'to 6,000 cycles per seoond with almost uniform intensity, - variation only hgtlf a db., or about half the!small­est variation poBslble to notice with the oar. The new transmitters will be self-contained, eliminating the wall-box. They are still. It Js thought, . of the carbon-granule type, We hope this will ellmimito a lot of cohfuBlon about Identities!
the sciences, astronomy. Aside from a scattering of student-mlrror-. makers (none of whose mirrors have we actually seen), we don't- 'And much association between: Car» negle. and the stars. • Of course, astronomy is hardly an englnoerlne-
joint paper on the results ot work: he has done at the Allegheny' Ob> servatory on the speotrum of elnc.
The fashionable research-In asn- tronomy today Beems to bs in the matter of island unlverBOB. or gal* axles. Theae are entities, incal­culably remote and fabulously large, similar to. our own Milky Way. Recent Btudles at Blorafon*
field of theee objects. Soven thou- . s.nnd-eight hùnrre'd and eight-nlno have been located in a region of about one per cent of thé sky. This 1s very dense, figuring to. about one : galaxy every five thousand trillion - cubic light yearsl Many of these:.
A few - days ago an announce* msr.t ¦pas mad5 tc, student9 on tt»— McKliilock. campus of - Northwest­ern University.' Ä' voice class for- amateur harmonizers was to be opened op the ninth floor of the
V;SÍl
yii
>4
F
AR above the cloudy on all the leading airlines, your 
pilot is always within hearing and speaking distance 
of airports—via Western Electric radio telephone.
This equipment,made^^by the manufacturing unit of the 
Bell System, is helping the airlines to set a notable record 
for fast, safe transportation. Teletype -another Bell System 
eemce—rspeeds printed weather information -to airports. 
Long- Distance and local telephone ..facilities, too, -play... 
. important parte m airline operation
Bell Sy tcm services reach out in many directions to 
the benefit.of industry and commerce ,
You, cnn nflyn home by telephone, in 
a couple of minxttes. Wh not do it 
tonight? Station-to Station rate» an 
lowest after 7PM• _ _
lin I Tl I I I'HOM SVSTI M
f'i

---------------------------------------------------

Night School Section- of Tartan
General News-Editorial Com­
ment—Fraternal Organizations
Thanksgiving
'On-'.' Thursday/ve wlll' delebrate 
the festival of Thanksgiving, a day 
•BBt apart • annually tot the render­
ing of thanksto Cod: tor the bless­
ing® oL the year: ’ Through the 
greed of man, the occasion has gradually, taken on more ot a com- . mercial aBpect and the -true spirit and meaning of Thanksgiving day1 has been discarded. People have become so money-mad that they have forgotton that there Is a God m Heaven and that at the slightest nod of His head they may be stripped of their wealth and rendered. penniless.
In this day of economic chaos, 'with millions of - destitute, and | starving , people in a land of plenty and:-with .politicians . trying ev.ory .conceivable means to .revive biisl: ness and put the unemployed .to work, how many of us have ever thought., of directing our prayers toward’-Heaven for a solution to
Edward F. White Selected Holiday Dance
To Head Night Arts <College To Be Held By
Night Council
Thanksgiving Dance Friday 
A Linie Scotch—Editorial
Appearing ¡„ 
This Week's 
Issue
to be thankful for or have ' ing to look forw.ard to. On- the other hand, however, they have their health, which In Itself priceless and-they should get down
riches mean little without heal In'addition] we owe a debt.Jo. <t Almighty for having created and placed us on this earth and we should thank Him for . haying guided us and assisted u v successful completion of
Tboseof us whose lot in life has been! more fortunate should not only render thanks for our health
less fortunate fellow citizens. Per­haps we. could share our Thanks­giving dinner with some of the peo- plo wbo' have been victims of it economic plight. In thlB way, could at least lighten 'their hearts
tire- Night student body and Fac­ulty, Its best wishes for a pleasant Thanksgiving day.
A Lillie Scotch
• It ÌB Interesting to note how cer­
tain ideas follow along certain
’ trends and how particular * group­
ings attract ' other groups of o 
like or kindred nature. It is also 
interesting to note how an idea 
of a special nature will attract 
' other ideas- and. become- the. au-j 
cleus of still greater 1deas,.all.pred-| lcated'upon the orlglnai idea. ' 1
. This transition and assimilation I• is v particularly.. apparent.- on ' campus. *' We cannot refer tc •¡institution', without the thought ofthings Scotch. We ' have imbned >;-the- splendid, sturdy traditions ot V.thlà hardy; thrifty, progressive Cel- '' tlc'race -and have clothed our .col- : lège with. Ideas of. .the heath and : heather-ìand. .
.. There is no denying the fact that ivolent forinder and gener- Bfactor, Andrew Carnegie, was a true Scotchman .and that this fact became the Kernel which gave to Ufo. the-magnificent institution
ditlons were added and everyone of them savorled ot Scotland. -' Looking aroundua we And our Tar- tan, our- Plaid, our Thistle; '' Songs and our KUtle band; Each one serves all the students • in particular way, but of all the ti ' dltlonal groups the KUtle band 'the most outstanding one.
iomentous day’for
witjtvits truly authentic uniform. There is no college In the coiipt •'which can Snatch this group of-.i dents who go out to" represent \ Institute whether it be on parade, i. footba.il' .same,.. or jperfoi
Successful Candidate Is 
Also Editor of The 
Carnegie Plaid
(Editor’s note: This Is the first 
of a series of articles whose aim 
Is to aqualnt the student body 
with the Night school officers.)
For the second successive year, 
Mr Edward -White is 'serving as 
President of the night College of 
Fine. Arts.. ‘He has been on the 
campus 'Mr a niilnb'e’r 6f years and 
at present is registered in the de­
partment of Painting and Decorat­
ing of the College of Fine Arts. 
Mr. AVhlte is well qualified for his 
present oflke, having served bis 
college for three years previous to 
this. Iu addition he has been : member of Council for three yeav and bps served as vice president! of that body.
During his matriculation at Car­negie, Mr. 'White .has. taken . active interest .in; Night school . tivlties and has been awarded four Insignlns for his efforts. Because of his service to the Night school irnegle, he vcall Ilie is now a member.
Besides being an officer of his college, EJd White controls tho destinies of the Plaid as' the Ed­itor. His experience as a member
position. Too much be given him for
necessary
n his pi' credit cohis unselfish attitude nr when It
ganize the Plaid stalt in m. In the setup of the paper for the last semester, Ed '•irved as News editor. - ' '
During tho year 3034-35 he was varied the Night student council scholarship in recognition of his scholastic and activities records. Ed has taken )>p singing sb a hob­by. At the age of thirteen, he won scholarship with -the famous Paullst choJr of New York City,, which Is under the direction of I Father Fla. His favorite sport is I tennis, at which he spends-quito I bit- of -spare time with. Art '-Qrlmm.
The students of the Arts college he proud of their president who is a capable leader and earnest worker.
Art Giles’ Orchestra To 
Furnish Music For 
Initial Function
Student Workers Will DecorateOnThursday
Workers for the Night Stu­dent Council Thanksgiving Re­cess dance•are asked lo report In Thietle lia.Il, Thursday after­noon, nt 1:00 o’clock^to assist in preparations for tlie dance on Friday evening.All students, interested in earning the NJght student coun­cil Insignia award are given this opportunity to obtain points to­wards the award. Three work­ing periods are assigned for the affair. Student workers are also requested lo report In Thistle holl at 8:00 o'clock the evenlug of the event to aid In-executing the various duties that are nec­essary during the dance.This being the first function to be sponsored by Council for the present school year, a large
Arrangements have: been.. conis| 
pleted for the Thanksgiving Re­
cessdauice which is the opening 
event on the current social cal­endar of the Night student coun­cil.* The affair wll be held in Thistle hall on Friday evening. 
~ Rrogress, from
As was hinted in a previous is- ie of the Plaid, Art Giles' or. chestra hus been engaged to;fur­nish the music for. the occasion. After several conferences and au­ditions,, the committee finally de- 'c- Giles’
Warning Is Given Prof. McCully 
Parking Vidators Becomes? E E
Society Head
Introduction of Latest 
Trends in Teaching 
Is Group’s Aim
the Business administration of the ¦school has asked the Plaid to call to the attention of Night students the fact that .parking in prohib­itive spaces might lead to embar­rassing circumstances. The• Plaid again calls attention to the pro­vided parking spaces: the Drive Sordsrisg . Scheniey Park at the school; Margaret Morrison Street; the improved lot off Margaret Moi
We shan’t say what collegc pu 
per thie item came from, but it goes like this: “We regret to state that we .did not have the informa­tion about John----------- correct.He is not an instructor, but a. fel­low. Dr. Wolf is not.'liead of the botany department. There Is no botany department. It’s biology.
cided'that
about the finest obtainable and de­cided to Slart the year with a bang. Mr. Giles* orchestra. Mr. Giles* - 
well known 1
per dances of the Pittsburgh Ath­letic club and Is well known to Pittsburgh music -lovers.
The decorations for tjie affair wilj be carried out in autumn col­ors in keeping with the spirit of the harvest season. Several-stu- deuts from the night College of Fine Arts hove been assistlng-wlth the plaus for decorating and“ who pttend the' dance .will' be treated yj something now and el in the way of decorations.
A new type-of.check tag will be inaugurated at this function; The
outsiders attending tb© affair.
Among the guests who have been invited to attend the function are: Deans. Mary Watson Green and A W. Tarbell, Mr. and Mrs. Charles 
~ Stanton, Air. and Mrs. Michael S.. -Schonvlzer; Mr. and Mrs. John ‘ Kohl, Mr. and Mra. R. T. Gab- ; Mr. and Mrs. John W. Daniels, Mr. and airs, Roy M. Hilton, Mr. n'nd Mrs. W. A. ¿Readio, "Mr and •Trs. G. O. Wcssenaer, Mr. and Mrs. Kent D. Shaffer. Mr. amli Mrs, Edward Saibel nnd Dr. and1
and, , - - -- the.driveway or In the court between the Industries' building -and - Ma­chinery hall is • positively prohib­ited, and violators are likely to' And flat tires on their cars-when they return;
Parking on the Schenley Park lawn Is trespassing, and violators are liable to assessment of towing charges. Possibly, most violations, could be avoided by scheduling the I time of arrival a few minutes soon-1 er so that If necessary, the drl' ttill have lime to park his i properly arid walk a few steps. Walking is really, healthful atlon.
Professor H.-M. McCully, bead, of the Dept, of Eniglneeving Draw­ing and Descriptive Geometry, has recently been honored with the presidency-, of the Allegheny dl vision of the-Society, for the Pro motion of Education in Engineer ing, which ie a national organlza tion. of educators and engineers,, in­terested *in* the Advancement’ in both the educational and profes­
sional phases of engineering. Pro-, tQ travel j^ew Yeav 
lessor McCulJy presides at the dM rjve on the‘ campus for the vision, which includes the TJnlver-1 sum3ti0n 0f school on January alty of Pittsburgh,, University of, „ ' always been t
West Virginia, Bucknell, Penn I « £®te Sght school »_
day school vacations simultaneous*
Christmas Recess 
Has Been Changed
Executive Board Action Fills 
Day Student6’*Reque8t
By. vote of the executive board, 
the Christmas Recess for 1936-36 
has been changed from the period 
extending from December 19, to 
January 2, to the period extend­
ing from Saturday? December 21, to 
Mouday,. January 6. Christmas 
cation wiU begin' Saturday,' Decem­
ber 21 at 4:30 P. M. Classes 
resume on January 6 at 8:30 A. M.
The change, was made, primarily, 
for the day school students, 
der the old schedule those students 
living* imtslde 'the '• immediate tvl- 
B^al'9WeB~7f‘^lDm1nrrnlbll,V3F wo forced------------------- " the dl "
NKBT LIGHTS'
State and Carnegie Tech.
iety has for i 
hlchproblem
’Tis Said
THAT there are 14,800 shop­ping .minutes .until Christmas. Do your shoplifting early.THAT we hope you’ll all wad­dle out and gobble Art Gllee muele at the Turkey dance next Saturday night 
THAT last week’s edition "Think and .Work” might put the tabou on this column.' THAT Neil Blochinger's most
> boysITHAT that heard last Sunday afterno WJAS was not a baby reci a beating but E^i White < ing.THAT slam-taker of contributor. 'THAT this
hn Page the pet I yejir is now a
been widely discussed’ necessary^ action has never 
it important
the
taken. The
the formation ofitionpl- standard which will, tend tU stabilize the teaching' ' engineering profession. Tfil8 In­cludes the sifting into various classes new information, conclu- sions and developments after their validity has been ascertained. In doing this the society will deter- mine the new material which in their opinion ehoud be -added to the currlcuum of the engineering colleges. In line with this subject' a greater uniformity is anticipated in order to raise materially the recognition of engineering.
A problem which assumes a gi proportion is that of guiding __ engineer- in': Ihe/ proper, direction through his college and profession­al career, in general, many po­tential engineers fall by the way­side, due to the lack of guidance which must he continually exerted by means of advancement in edu- ation in line with modern. pro
To cope "with the problem of j modernization. Prof. McCully has
Iy, this new arrangement will also effect' night school students. In­stead of the former fourteen day respite, they will now have six-, teen days. On the other hand they do not have as many. shopping I days before. Christmas'as they for­merly had. If . the old schedule were in effect, they could devote five days or nights to stalking the bargains on department store ters in search of-a suitable ti Uncle Dan. Now they have onlythree days to ~ * ‘ ...............This curtailedmight well be used _______when Uncle Dan knits thé hrow upon regarding the tie in all its ghastly' fioridness. Still, there is compensation for this. Had the change not been made the night school student would have been I forced to January 2nd classes, I rwith the holiday spirit still heavy
Instituted'' a plan ' lowing at pres'
make an exchange of in an effort lo combine ious methods of teaching
alibi
upon him.
Since Mlea Banch iQvad&tfpS 
WT^pattlck'^.iThtfrodey njght g*
LUh class '(she's the only fenul 
it's rumored that he doesn-t? 
of his Interesting experiences J 
more. . . The Carl ScholUeg (¿e 
an electrical hocus-pocus) haifjB electrical outlets in tbelr 
roon alone! . . . ElUa 
claims that since her nu&e j 
peared In this .column, her 
larity has increased 2S ierc6aTs 
• Bvelyt! .HU1 has tts^nawjj 
herculean 6aak of kQopiog j Shields awake in class b; t gently pokJng<hliD in the ribaei,6 miDUtes . . . Art Grimm la la* Ing to say pretty speeches ¿1 
ladles* . .-Prof. Prlne-myslpoint quite clear the other c wh^n'he rfiald Hbot' the truth &i certain statement was as ^ as the nose on his face; . .
Greek met. Greek at 
dance when Night-LJgbtc wt troduced. to the editor ot pourrl, from the Pitt weekly . Poor, hard-working Earl Mel mott didn’t know what be • stepping into when he tried i convince thoae ardent Roputiilcd Bob Graham and Russ Lahr, ¡1 they ought to go Cemocra.Us ,1 
Herb Stone added the elgMVil friend .to hie 'list of “The eg I’ve Let Go by Me," when UFH his former sweetle-pies aonooiS her ' engagement to someone e{§ Anyone wanting parllculg-----•- BWiBtdng. Bigstampea, i
on '’Blochlnger’sder” should, send i____ m
addressed envelope to the edlloiB
Registration Increase 
Shown by Lale Figures |
The latest registration figures, of November 15, show an increase of 134 students over the figures fori the previous month. The enroll-1 ment by colleges is: College ofjFine Arts ,729; College of Engineer­ing 1032; College of Industries 914, ] W.J.Nolgot and Margaret Morrison College 47.ThesesflgureB represent an increase I “* 18% percent over the figures'for period during the year I
:e editad 'T Might'S 
Î BdUorì™ Board"“
Editor EDWARD F. WHITE News Editor CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINQE^ 
Associate Editors Mildred Qerson Edmund DreosS ¦« William Wessely
StaffR.A.Lahr G. McCormack I _ . B. E. McDonald! D.O. Davis A.J.Lola C.E. Blochlngor J. J. Page J.S;Geyser -' M.G.Scholü I A.C. Grimm . E. L Hill W: A. Vensel
¦ways ready to serve the student body and: responds unstintingly ;."«hen called:upon-.to assist In any
, students really • appreciate the true ’.value ot; this canxpus group, and the efforts they are putting fortfc
aromatic Turkish tobaccos 
used in Chesterfield give 
them a mote pleasing aroma 
and taste ...
Every year we import; thousands of pounds 
from Turkey and Greece
THE IMPORT DUTY alone is 35 cents a 
pound—but Turkish tobacco is necessary to 
"a. good, cigarette.
The right smount of Turkish tobacco, 
blended with our mild, ripe home-grown to­
baccos helps to give Chesterfields more aroma, 
helps to give them a more pleasing taste.
RJIPE HOME-GROWN AMD AROMATIC TURKISH TOBACCOsI
—
