HOME CONCERT 
THURSDAY 
MUSIC HALLShr Otarían
SCIENCE BRAID 
INSPECTION 
FRIDAY
VOL. XII. NO. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAMARCH 20, 1918
EAPT. MCCORKLE WRITES 
OF TECH WAR ACTIVITY
MetDeans Connelleyand Mott 
While in Washington
Fort DuPont, Del., 
March 10, 1918.
To The Tartan:
How delighted I am to read in your 
columns of the part Tech is now play­
ing in the Nation’s War Program. It 
is inspiring to read of the many activi­
ties now being conducted on the camp­
us to bring the full resources of the 
Institution to the assistance of the 
Government. The president, faculty 
and students are to be congratulated 
on their splendid efforts.
The military training which is now 
so effectively organized under Major 
Lyle will not only be of great value 
to the individual physically, but will 
develop within each one a greater 
measure of self respect and a. recog­
nition of responsibility as a citizen. 
I sincerely hope there is net a man 
on the campus who refuses to take 
part in this program. If there is, he is 
unworthy of being a Carnegie Tech 
man, or a citizen of our country. No 
man should enjoy the privileges of a 
government unless he is willing to 
share its full responsibilities1. There 
are so many opportunities to render 
service in the present struggle, there 
seems little excuse for any one not 
fitting into the war program some­
where. - The training now being given 
at Tech will help the student to under­
stand the duties of a soldier, will give 
. him a knoweldge of army organiza­
tion. about which Americans know so 
little, and will prepare him in a meas­
ure to perform soldierly duties.
It is a pleasure to read about the 
many special courses now offered to 
train young people for service in gov­
ernmental departments which are so 
overburdened with duties and the 
maiiy courses designed particularly 
for men already with the colors. All 
of these activities are truly in accord 
with the spirit of service of the iusti- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
A THOUSAND DRESSINGS 
SHIPPED BY AUXILIARY
At: the military assembly, didn’t it 
thrill you, Avhen glancing around, you 
saw all Tech in uniform?- Didn’t you 
also realize that many right there, at 
that assembly, in not so long a time 
would be in battle “somewhere in 
France;” But wasn’t that vision soft­
ened when the Red Cross girls in uni­
form filed in? Although they turned 
in their first; one thousand surgical 
dressings last Wednesday, what 
that, compared to Uncle Sam’s great 
need. From across the seas comes a 
voice calling: “Dressings, dressings, 
more dressings.” It would not be just 
to say that France has done her “bit” 
for France has given her “all.” Eng­
land and her colonies have done far 
more than their “bit.” Then why 
should American just do her “bit” and 
ho more. We want America to do her 
“all”, for the cause ~that gave her 
birth. You can help her do this right 
here at Tech by becoming an ACTIVE 
member of the Tech Red Cross Aux­
iliary. (Any further information may 
be obtained at the M. M. C. S. and the 
Design ¡School). Let us make Mrs. 
Hamerschlag proud of her children 
by following Sergeant Arthur Guy 
Empey’s example of saying, not “Why 
don't they do something?” but “Why 
don’t I do something? For it is going 
(Continued on Dage Four.)
FORBES HALL GIRLS 
ENTERTAINED MAR. 15
The Forbes Hall girls entertained 
in honor of St. Patrick on Friday, 
March 15. The lower floor of the main 
building was thrown open for dancing 
and was prettily decorated in sham­
rocks, green crepe paper and flags of 
Erin. The dance programs were 
bright green with a folder in shape of 
a shamrock, and the name, Forbes 
Hall, and the order of dances written 
in white ink.
The refreshments served during, in­
termission, continuing the suggestion 
of St. Patrick, were frozen punch 
with a green flag raised in the center, 
green and white mints and little 
cakes in the shape of shamrocks and 
covered with green icing. The music 
was provided by a pianist from 
Riehl’s orchestra.
This was only the sêcond entertain­
ment given by Forbes Hall, but more 
are planned for the future. A contest 
between the main house and the annex 
is planned in which each will give a 
^party in honor of the other. At each 
party several faculty members will be 
present to judge which is the most 
cleverly planned. The house which 
presents the most unique idea will 
later be the guests at a dance held by 
the houses in the contest
FIVE ORIGINAL PLAYS 
PRODUCED IN DESIGN
Unusual interest was manifested in 
the two performances of the five one- 
act plays, written by students of the 
Department of Dramatic Art, on Tues­
day and Thursday evenings of last 
week, in the theater of the School of 
Applied Design.
The first of the group was “Just 
Women,” by Colin Clement. A bit 
of Northampton atmosphere, rather 
too chatty and with little action, but 
nevertheless, interesting.
This play was entrusted to the 
Night students, who gave a very good 
account of themselves at the Thurs­
day night performance. The role of 
‘Mrs. Warren,” was very creditably 
done by Alma Lotz, who lerit to the 
chatty old lady a certain quaint charm. 
“Miss Betty” was quite delightfully 
done by Anne Cochrane, while “Mrs. 
Romney” (Miss Mea Sweeney) had all 
the assurance of the city-bred person 
who goes to live in the country town. 
Mrs. Lawty (Margaret Carnegie) an/d 
Mrs. Pickering (Alyse Tawber) were 
two very clever and amusing charac­
terizations. Margaret McClean played 
“Lady Bloshire” with dignity. The 
most direct play so far as appeal is 
concerned and the best written in that 
it hits the mark in the least possible 
time, is the propagandist play “Booze” 
by Mr. William Viehman. The title 
explains itself and the cast drove the 
truth home. No one would be expect­
ed to like the play. It is too solidly 
real, but its purpose is unmistakable 
and the work sincere. The solid ap­
plause that followed the drop of the 
curtain was a sincere tribute to a sin­
cere work—shall one say of art? 
Here is a question. Mr. Theodore 
Viehman’s “Jim” the victim, of 
“Booze” was most convincing and Mr.
(Continued on Page Three)
Home Concert Program
Scalzo to Play and La Marca Sing-Sec­
ond Half of Program, Written by 
Tech Man, Being Kept Secret. 
Formal Dance Afterwards
SENIOR BANQUET SHOWS 
PROSPECTS OF PEP
The old Senior Banquet problem is 
being forced to the ropes slowly “by 
the committee. Some minor details 
must still be corralled, but by suffi­
cient "cutting the men in charge should 
be able to overcome them-, too.
One. item of great importance is 
that every Science Senior pay up fully 
by Thursday evening at; the latest. 
Each section treasurer is to collect 
a. total of three' iron men from each 
man under him and to pay this in to 
Arnold not later than Thursday even­
ing. Each of the forty Seniors is sup­
posed to be there, and a tentative or­
der for that number of places has been 
ma:de. . Any former members of the 
class who care to attend must get 
their assessment in with the others 
in order to be assured of a plate.
Several firms in this district have 
been asked to contribute souvenirs, 
more or less useful, as in the case of 
shaving cream. Also, there are to be 
some rare speeches by fellows who 
have ideas all right, but who have only 
infrequently expressed them publicly.
The place won't be hard to find af- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
WILLIAM POEL SENDS 
REGARDS TO FRIENDS
5 Amersham Road, 
Putney, S. W., 
January 30, 1918. 
Dear Dr. Hamerschlag:
I am sending two more of my 
Monthly Letters, as you are good 
enough to say that you find them of 
some interest, and I hope that they 
will reach you. The progress of the 
war is now reaching a critical stage, 
and in a few weeks events on the 
West front may move rapidly.
I hope my countrymen will face the 
ordeal with courage and clear sight­
edness. Russia's attitude although un­
settling for the military issue at the 
moment, will advance the cause of 
democracy especially among the Ger­
man Socialists.
I hope that the Dramatic class at 
“Tech” continues its studies in 
spite of present drawbacks. I am more 
than ever convinced that the theater, 
in competent hands, is a powerful in­
fluence in the making of character. 
Please give my best regards to all stu­
dents and friends.
Yours very truly,
WILLIAM POEL.
In the Home Concert, the program of the Mandolin Club will 
contain several high class numbers, such as the “Serenade’’ by Drigo, 
“0 Sole Mio,” and the “Cradle Song," by Hauser. The Drigo “Ser­
enade'’ and “0 Sole Mio” played with all the fineness o£ detail that 
Signor Scalzo can bring out of a stringed instrument have occasioned 
numerous eucores in the concerts already given this season. The 
program will start and finish with martial numbers, the “March of 
the Bersaglieri” being the opening;selection, and the popular “Amer­
ican Patrol, ’ ’ the finale. •
Beethoven’s “Worship of Goci in Nature,” is a wonderful num­
ber especially adapted for male voices, and the Glee Club renders this 
masterpiece in a manner which speaks well for the work that has 
been put on it by the director. ¡Another selection written by the 
popular male chorus composer, Dudley Buck, which has evoked much 
favorable comment in previous.'concerts, is entitled “On the Sea.” 
In addition to the more classic numbers, several popular songs and 
sketches are on the program.
In the second part of the program, a special number will be pre­
sented, the lyrics and music of which’ has been written especially for 
the Home Concert by Weninger, a student at Tech. The details of 
this number are absolutely unknown to anyone except the members of 
the Glee Club and they will not divu^ *e the nature of it until next 
Thursday evening. A trio of “Strings^ will play several numbers in 
true Hawaiian style—a steel guitar and two guitars as accompanists. 
In addition to the regular prograjn, Signor Scalzo will play a solo, 
by reason of the many requests of ulumni and friends ol? the director. 
Signor Scalzo is so well known to music lovers in this vicinity that no 
comment upon his style is needed, Mr. N. E. LaMarca, director of 
the Glee Club, will sing as a solo |‘Las Donna e mobile” (Rigoletto) 
by Verdi. Mr. LaMarca has a high tenor voice that has won approval 
in numerous places throughout thej country.
The eighth annual formal dance of’l'ihe Muslcal'Clubs will be held 
at the Hotel Schenley immediately after the cbncert. As only 150 
couples, will be admitted there has been a rush for tickets. Tickets 
for the concert are on sale (at S. Hamilton *s Music Stone, every day 
this week up to the night of the concert.
MDS. PICKENS ANSWERS I NEW BUILDING PLANNED 
LETTER OF CONDOLENCE TO DISPLACE BEANERY
Three weeks ago. news was publish­
ed in The Tartan of the death of Mr. 
Frank M. Pickens, of Poland, Ohio, the 
first Tech man to die in Franco while 
serving his country. The following 
touching letter was received by Dr. 
Hamerschlag from Mr. Pickens’ moth­
er, answering the president's letter of 
condolence:
Dr. Hamerschlag,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Sir:
Your very kind letter has been re­
ceived. Thank you so much for the 
sympathy expressed from yourself aud 
my son’s friends.
Such things are a comfort to us, al­
though they cannot take a\^ay the 
awful agony of our loss. But we are 
so proud of Frank’s noble life, and his 
conscientious dedication to the cause 
for which he gave his life. We would 
not have had it otherwise.
We have received wonderful letters 
from the Director of his unit and the 
Chaplain, telling of the grief and sym- 
pathy of the French people of the 
town—how many aged French women 
preceded the funeral procession to the 
cemetery, a distance of three miles, 
weeping for the boy who had come to 
help save them and his loved ones 
away at home. In addition to the 
1 slender white cloSs with his name and 
rank (Sergt..), and unit on it, stands a 
trellis that these French people put 
there, hung with- the most beautiful 
flowers and beads.
I have heard that Frank is the first 
one from Carnegie Tech who has gone 
to the great beyond for his country. 
I wonder if that is correct.
Thanking you again for your letter, 
I remain.
Yours sincerely,
(Mrs. J. C.) IDA L. PICKENS.
New Restaurant Will Proba­
bly Accommodate 1000
Another buildiug will soon, appear 
011 the Tech campus, between the In­
dustries School and the Central Build­
ing. The purpose of the new structure 
will be to offer increased luncli-room 
facilities, the need of which has been 
so evident recently, because of the 
large nunfber of soldiers that have 
been sent to .Tech. It will consist of 
three sections, one for the kitchen, 
one to be set aside for the faculty, and 
the other to be used by the students 
and soldiers. It is estimated that one 
thousand people may be accommo­
dated at one time in the new res­
taurant, which will displace the 
“beanery.” The "beanery” will prob­
ably be used for storage purposes.
The surveying of the site for the 
new building lias been completed by 
Civil Engineering students of the Sci­
ence School, who have also done the 
necessary surveying for the Langley 
School. The plans have been com­
pleted and are now in the office of Mr. 
Harold, in the Bureau of Buildings.
COLONEL BROOKS HAS 
SECURED EQUIPMENT
Colonel Brooks has returned from 
Washington and anounced that his 
trip was a complete success. The 
Colonel has secured all the equipment 
necessary for trench digging, and this 
material will be sent to Pittsburgh im­
mediately. Trench work will be start­
ed within a week or two if good 
weather continues.
OFFICERS PLAYING IN 
LAST CLUB CONCERT
It has been an anxiouS time during 
the last few months for members of 
the Musical Clubs and the Executive 
Committee because they did not know 
at what time President John F. 
Sweeny would be called into the ser- 
ice. “Mike” enlisted last December 
in the Naval Aviation Corps and has 
been waiting for a call ever since. 
This is “Mike's” sixth year in the Mu­
sical Clubs—it’s a good thing the four 
year rule does not apply in student 
activities. He graduated from Indus­
try School in 1915 and now is a Junior 
in Science School. When he first tried 
out for the clubs back in 1912, Direc­
tor Scalzo hesitated about taking him, 
but now John is the best mandolin 
and mandola player that ever played 
for the Carnegie Musical Clubs. John 
has held about every office in the Ex­
ecutive Committee from Librarian to 
President. He can play five different 
stringed instruments and now he is to 
be heard playing a- steel guitar in the 
Home Concert. If the government 
will hold off that call till after the 
Home Concert, it will relieve the 
strain on lots of followers and sup­
porters of the Carnegie MusicaL Clubs.
The Home Concert this year will 
probably be the last time the Student 
body will.have a-chance to hear Mr. 
R. W. Cost play his Hawaiian ‘Guitar. 
He graduated last year from the In­
dustry School,( but this year is tak­
ing an advanced course in Automobile 
Work. “Smoke” Cost has been in the 
Musical Clubs four years, and with­
out doubt has been one of the most 
valuable men the clubs ever had. Not 
only has he been faithful in the ac­
companiment work with the guitar, 
but the Jast couple of years has done 
considerable solo work upon the steel 
guitar. The last two Home Concerts 
have been successful from the spec­
ialty standpoint largely by the - splen­
did Hawaiian Music rendered by Cost 
and his colleagues. This year in ad- 
dition to the regular Hawaiian Music 
several popular numbers will be play­
ed in the Hawaiian style.
TECH PARTICIPATES IN 
SCHOOL CONFERENCE
The Education Association of West­
ern Pennsylvania and the Classical 
Association of Pittsburgh held a. con­
ference at Tech last Saturday, March
16. The general topic was, “How can 
the schools, through the medium of 
subject matter and method, most ef­
fectively contribute to the winning of 
the war.” The chief address was de­
livered on this subject by Dr. John 
Withers, superintendent of the St. 
Louis schools.
Margaret Morrison girls acted as 
ushers, and luncheon was served for 
two hundred guests by Miss Shaw in 
the M. M. C. S. lunch room. The pro­
gram in the various sections included 
the following C.. I. T. instructors with 
topics as indicated:
(1) Mathematics Section. “The 
College and University Teacher,” Prof. 
N. C. Riggs.
(2) Modern Language Section. 
“What Modern Language Can Do to 
Help Win the War,” Prof. Colette.
(3) Physical Science Section. 
“How Can Secondary School Chemis­
try Contribute to the Winning of the 
War,” Dr. E. P. Harris.
DRAMATIC CLUB STAGES 
“HANS AND GRETCHEN”
Tryouts for parts in the play “Hans 
and Gretchen’' will be made this week 
by the Margaret Morrison Dramatic 
Club. The club is planning to give 
the play once in the school and then 
take it around to various institutions 
for children in the city.
SCIENCE SENATE AMENDS 
FKESHMtl REGULATIONS
At the last meeting of the Science 
Senate, several very important 
changes were made in the By-Laws of 
that school. The changes affect the 
Freshman Class and it is very impor­
tant that the new regulations he en­
forced. The changes were made un­
der Freshman Regulations. Art. IV. 
Section III., No. I., II., IV., to Section
III., No. XIV., has been added.
No. I. has been omitted and in its 
place a new regulation has been add­
ed, that: Freshmen shall be required
to wear one and only one, one-half 
inch black braid, three inches from 
bottom of each coat sleeve of regula­
tion school uniform.
No. II. has been changed as follows: 
Freshmen must wear black ties ex­
clusively.
No. III. has been changed as fol­
lows: Freshmen must wear their
coats while on the campus, except In 
class rooms and laboratories. Corri­
dors are considered parts of the cam­
pus.
No. XIV. has been added: While
on the campus, Freshmen must not 
walk or talk with any member of the 
opposite sex.
NAVAL RESERVE FORCE 
INTERESTS THIRTY MEN
Thirty studonts have signified their 
interest in the plan of the Naval Re­
serve Recruiting Officers to onlist un­
dergraduate , students of approved 
technical colleges, as described in the 
preceding two issues of The Tartan. 
It is understood that students enlisted 
in this way will not be called for ser­
vice before they graduate, unless a 
great national emergency should arise, 
which is not foreseen now by the 
Bureau of Navigation. Only students 
between 18 and,21 years of age, and 
physically fit, are eligible.
In response to a request from the 
Bureau of Navigation, Dean Mott has 
notified the District Enrolling Officer 
of the number of men lntersted In this 
plan and has received the following 
reply:
Mr. W. E. Mott, Dean,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Sir:
Your telegram of March 14 was for­
warded to me at State College from 
Philadelphia, Pa. In reply, would say 
that the Regular Navy Recruiting Of- 
<Contlnued on Page Four.)
DR. M’GOWAN TO SPEAK 
AT SERIES OF MEETINGS
Plans have been made for the hold­
ing of a series of “Inspirational Meet­
ings,” similar to those held last year 
during the weelc preceding Easter. 
This year the meeting will be held 
from 8 to 8:20 on March 25, 2G, 27 
and 28 in Room 104, Industries Build­
ing. The meetings are open to all the 
students and a cordial invitation is 
extended to the enlisted men who are 
stationed at Tech to attend these ser­
vices. Those in charge have been 
very fortunate in securing Dr. Mac- 
Gowan, pastor of the Bellefield Pres­
byterian Church, to give a brief talk 
each morning.
INSPECTION OF BRAIDS 
WILL BE MADE FRIDAY
In accordance wtli the action taken 
by the School Senate, every student 
in the School of Applied Science must 
have the required braids on his coat 
sleeves. A list will be taken of those 
not complying with this order and 
these students will be severely pun­
ished.
KESNER’S FATHER GIVES 
LATEST NEWS OF “SUNNY”
Sunny Kesner’s father visited Tech 
for a short time Monday. Mr. Kesner 
says Sunny has entered the Aviation 
Service in France. He has also- 
gained about twenty pounds,,weighing 
now about one hundred and seventy. 
The service evidently agrees with 
Sunny.
RED CROSS UNIT TO GET 
PROCEEDS OF BALL
The tickets for the Tech Military 
Ball are out. They may bo obtained 
from any member of the hand or at 
the school post office. The proceeds 
of the ball will be*turned over to the 
Tech Red Cross unit.
The present plans are to run the 
dance until two a. m. This, of course, 
depends upon the action of the city 
authorities.
Night men need not wori;y about 
the rule that each man must wear a 
uniform for this cannot apply to them.
This will be the biggest affair at 
Tech this year, April 19 at the Hotel 
Schenley.
MAY FESTIVAL PROGRAM 
FOR MAY 17, COMPLETED
Aa previously announced In The 
Tartan, M. M. C. S. is making exten­
sive preporallons for the May Festival 
to bo hold Friday, May 17, in the rear 
barn of Mellon Hall. It is hoped to 
have all classes excused at 2:30 tho 
afternoon of the Festival.
Florence Bechtel, tho Student Gov* 
eminent Association President, halt 
been chosen May Quoon. Each class, 
with the exception of tho Plobes, will 
have a solo dance. This class will fill 
in, in the Morris and Maypolo dances. 
Ida Richter, Helen Sonn, Luclllo 
Wakefield and Carrie Freese, all oC 
the Senior VOL..X will dance dn tho 
“Woodland Sprltos*” danca. Phyllis 
McMnrlln and Marion Keefer, Juniors, 
will take the part of tho Queen’s 
pages in Uni “Jack of tho Green's” 
daneo. The Sophomore Class will be 
represented by Emily King, Blanche 
Sheppard and Glolm Sheriff in “The 
Wave” dance.
As soon as the elaborate costumes 
have been completed, little else will 
remain, aside from the almost dally re­
hearsals of the dancers.
Illustrated programs are ready to be 
placed In the hands of the printer.
(Continued on Page Four.)
BATTERY MEN BEGAN 
PRACTICE SATURDAY
The first baseball practice was held 
Saturday morning in the gym. Al­
though tliis practice .was only a be­
ginning for the battery men, Tech 
baseball is started. The outlook for 
this year is not discouraging. There 
are seven men from last year’s squad 
still In school, including Doherty, 
Gretzler, Cosgrove, Shumway, Zehfuss, 
Osborn and Hird. Doherty and U atz- 
ler are infield men, “Doc” cutting them 
off in short, and “Reindeer” cov­
ering the, first corner. Osborn and 
Hird are-'ljox artists, while Shumway 
and Zehfuss receive. Cosgrove plays 
the field.
Much difficulty in arranging a 
schedule has been met, as many col­
leges are not putting a team in the 
field. However, Manager Todd has ar­
ranged some games and has several 
more games pending. Two games with 
Bethany and two with Waynesburg 
are almost sure. Westminster, Hiram 
and Muskingum are still on the cor­
respondence list, while a game with 
the Pittsburgh Collegians , Is very 
probable.- Again, Tech may play inorae 
teams made up of soldiers.
Coach McCulloeh said that if the 
weather continues as It is, the base­
ball squad will start outside work 
sometime this week. Ho also hopes 
that any man who can play the game 
at all will come out for the team.

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, March 20, 1918
(jfartan
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
Entered in the postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, Ç1.75
Business Manager
Phone Grant 388-R. 
Phone Schenley 2206-J
É «CONCERT TICKETS
EDITORIAL
AGflistant Managing Editors 
IN23I Levin 
F. .i. Smith 
School Editors 
M. M. C. S.—Salome Stamm 
Design—
Industries—w. D. Hall 
Science—
Night—Julius Foster 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marguerite I-Ialdeman
Margaret Lappe 
Anne McCandlass 
Lydia McCarthy 
Other Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
A. A. Meinhold 
J. A. Bingham 
I. Sissman 
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manager 
Charles H. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
H. W. Anderson 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
First Floor —All seats except last four rows....................$1.50
—Third and fourth rows from back..........$1.00
—Last two rows ........................................... 75c
First Balcony —First three rows...............................................$1.50
—Next two rows .............................................$1.00
—Next two rows ........................................... 75c
—Remainder .................................................... 50c
Second Balcony—First three rows........................................... 75c
—Remainder .................................................... 50c
DANCE TICKETS
Those holding two $1.00 or $1.50 tickets are privileged to 
secure dance tickets for $1.00 additional. Dance tickets may 
he had from Manager Faville or any one of the executive 
committee.
1 n ! « T « 
::
We have ready for immediate delivery
Caps, Leggins and 
Uniforms
Complete, with braid and plain buttons, in all sizes
I
PITTSBURGH UNIFORM TAILORING GO.
3037-40 JENKINS ARCADE
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—2:00 to 4:00 Mon uays.
4:30 to 5:00 Wed nesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of thiB paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should ne sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.______________________________________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postofilce, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays.
THE HOME CONCERT
The Home Concert is an opportunity which no “human being” 
can afford to miss. Former years have set a/ standard for that affair 
—a standard oi: large attendance, oil novel program, oil excellent per­
formance.
With only fifteen men who were in the clubs last year back at 
school in the beginning oi: the season last September, it looked like 
an almost impossible task to break in so many new men and still up­
hold the unusually good quality oi: the ¡clubs. However, under the 
careful instruction by the two directors, Signor Gregorio Scalzo of 
the Mandolin Club, and Mr. N. E. LaMarca of the Glee Club, an or­
ganization has been produced that is in no way inferior to the clubs 
of former years, and as much can be expected of their concert as of 
previous ones. The fact that the management is having very little 
trouble in filling up the schedule of the season, especially in such try­
ing times as these, speaks well of the reputation they have already at­
tained. Home Concert—tomorrow!
A RIDGE IN FRANCE
We believe that the following has more than passed muster from 
a literary standpoint. Certainly the sentiment which it expresses is 
worthy of a second and third reading, and even then it will doubtless 
contain much that is still unintelligible except to those who arc ac­
tually in view olf that “ridge in France.”
“Tlnjre is a ridge of France,
That, rises out of the level like the prow of a battleship;
Shaking itself I'ree from some gigantic wave.
The dark green pines away from the morning sun,
Seem like the shadowed side of the ship itself.
And the base side ol! the hill, slightly dotted with brush,
Drops into the light.
And everywhere from our mushy, miry, muddy plateau are blue hills, 
And there are white-tnsked poplars thjere,
Bearing big balls oil mistletoe;
Mountains, gentle , \ t us,
And in the descending steep some times a church spire rises up 
And round it are white homes with shining red roofs,
That show warm hearts beneath.
And when the wind is against the guns,
One can forgot.”
By Oliver Wilkins,
Junior Architect, 15th U. S. Engineers in France.
By action of the Administrative Council February 25, night 
classes will be omitted on Thursday evening, March 21, in order that 
faculty and students may have an opportunity to attend the Annual 
Home Concert of the Carnegie Musical Clubs. This action follows 
the custom of previous years.
A. W. TARBELL, Secretary,
Administrative Council.
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh
MEN IN THE SERVICE
Will be interested in our
HOMEC NRCTU NMUSO
A reliable timepiece with Walhtam 
movement—radium dial and hands, 
non-broakable, semi-darkened crystal, 
wrist, band of moisture-proof khaki.
$22.00 to $27.00
The HARDY & HAYES CO.
Wood St. at Oliver Ave. Pittsburgh
u 1111 n 1111 n i rm-mn minimi ttttttt
M. M. C. S. HAPPENINGS
Mrs. Frank Aimie, head of the so­
cial service department, returned ori 
Monday, after a trip to New York with 
her husband who sailed for France 
with the Aviation Corps.
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association basketball game tool< 
place last Friday night at 8 o'clock. 
Refreshments wei-e served after the 
game and all the girls did Red Cross 
knitting.
Dean Breed, after being absent on a 
combined business and pleasure trip, 
will return to school on Thursday.
A movement has been started in 
Margaret Morrison school to gather 
books and literature for soldiers and 
sailors. Requests are made for good 
books—books that are valuable to any 
library. Put your contribution in the 
center faculty parlor and you can be 
sure that some of Uncle Sam’s sons 
will enjoy them.
.The girls from the Margaret Mor­
rison dormitories acted as ushers at 
the big Suffrage Meeting at the Pitt 
Theater last Sunday afternoon.
•J* 'i*
-I* Have you got your tickets for *
? the Home Concert and Dance? *
? Everyone is going—you’ll be *
missed. ?
SENIOR COMMERCIALS 
GUESTS OF HELTZEL
On Monday evening, March 11, Wil­
liam G. Heltzel entertained several of 
the Science Seniors, including the 
Senior Commercials, with a most 
sumptuous dinner at his{ home on 
Monticello street. To say’ that the 
dinner was a fine one is altogether too 
mild a statement. The meal was just 
about the best that any of those pres­
ent have had an opportunity to put 
inside their belts for many days sin 
As it later developed, the affair was 
in honor of “Bulgie’s” birthday, and 
was indeed a most enjoyable occasion.
ANNUAL ALUMNI GAME 
WON BY THE VARSITY
The curtain was rung .down on the 
1017-1018 Basket Ball Season at Toch 
by the annual clash between the 
Alumni and Varsity. The latter de­
feated the old hoys, 50 to 49, in a game 
which was not marked by an excessive 
display of teamwork or effort on the 
pari, of any of the players.
The Alumni presented a fast lineup, 
which was out to take the measure of 
the aggregation that had defeated 
Pitt. Tumpane at forward and Robin­
son at center were able to hit the net 
consistently. “Tubby” Lain, who for­
merly confined liis exhibitions to the 
diamond, had his hands full guarding 
Jimmy Doherty and turned the trick 
in far better fashion than has been 
done in preceding games.
The Varsity played a very loose 
game and were evidently doing their 
utmost to forget their team work so 
as' not to put the Alumni at too great 
a disadvantage. Gretzler was the prin­
cipal scorer, making eleven successful 
shots from the floor.
“Dink” Merrill and a number of the 
old guard were out to support the 
Alumni, but the contest was marred 
by the small attendance. Lineup:
Alumni—49. Tech Varsity—59-
Tumpane ...............F..................... Doherty
Waite .......................F..........................Hoban
Robinson ...............C.......................Gretzler
Lain .........................G..............................Wire
Mason ....................G............... Cosgrove
Substitutions—Shuckman for Tum­
pane, Hobbs for Mason, Wallwortli for 
Waite, Steinmetz for Lain, Kruse for 
Cosgrove, Wolf for Hoban. Field
goals—Doherty, 5; Hoban, 3; Gretzler, 
11; Wire, 4; Cosgrove, 4; Kruse, 1; 
Tumpane, 5; Robinson, 13; Wall- 
worth, 1. Fouls—Doherty, 3 out of 11; 
Robinson, 5 out of G; Mason, 2 out of 
7. Referee—Eyman.
quesne University court.
The Dinwiddie Club eliminated the 
Pl6b.es from the tournament Thursday 
evening at the East Liberty Y. M. C. 
A. Gym, the final result being 45 to 
26. The Plebes fought gamely, but 
were no match for their heavier oppo­
nents. Lynn played his usual good 
game at center.
Summaries of the games:
Plebes—42. Homewood M. E.—26.
Riblett ....................F...............................Miller
Hamman ................F..................... Sandford
Lynn ........................C............................ Kurtz
Nichol ......................G..........................Hysong
Leet ...........................G.......................... Beatty
Subestitutions — Maurer for Ham­
man, Good for Nichol. Field goals— 
Riblett, 4; Hamman, 3; Lynn, 6; 
Nichol, 3; Leet, 1; Maurer, 1; Miller, 
1; Sanford, 5; Kurtz, 1; Beatty, 1. 
Fouls—Lynn, 0 out of 1; Nichol, 6 out 
of 9; Kurtz, 8 out of 17. Referee— 
Bonnert, Duquesne University.
Plebes—2(5. Dinwiddie Club—45.
Riblett .....................F.................H. Levine
.Hamman ...............F............................. Scott
Lynn .......................C.................. A. Levine
Nichol......................G................. L. Mervis
Leet ........................G............... Silberstein
Substitutions — Maurer for Ham­
man, Good for Lynn. Field goals— 
Riblett, 1; Lynn, 2; Nichol, 1; Leet, 1; 
H. Levine, 6; Scott, 4; Mervis, 1; Sil­
berstein, 3. Foul goals—Nichol, 16 out 
of 19;Silbertsein, 17 out of 29. Ref­
eree—Bonnett. Umpire, Daugherty.
STUDENTS
We rent and have for sale Full Dress, Tuxedos, single and 
double breas-ted frocks, and all accessories for day and even­
ing dress. Prices reasonable, efficient service.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-2-3 JENKINS ARCADE 
Both Phones
M.M.C. S. STUDENTS GIVE 
ST. PATRICK’S DAY TEA
The Seniors oi the Household 
Economics Department gave a tea 
Friday afternoon in Lhe practice dining 
room at Margaret Morrison for the 
Science, Costume Economics and So­
cial Service Departments. The re­
freshments, consisting of a green ice, 
oatmeal cookies and tea, with the 
green candles oh the table, carried out 
the idea of Saint Patrick’s Day. Dean 
Breed and the heads of the various de­
partments were present; Miss Pape 
and Miss Weber poured.
Music was furnished by a Victrola.
NOTICE. *
No flowers are to be worn to •!* 
• the formal dance of the Mus>lcal 
¦ Clubs on Thursday night.
AFRICAN EXPERIENCES 
RELATED BY DR. LOEN
A most interesting meeting of the 
Y. W. C. A. was held last Thursday 
evening at 6 o’clock in the M. M. C. 
S. recreation hall. Miss Browning 
had charge of the devotional. Dr. Loen, 
a returned missionary from Africa, 
was the guest of the association. He 
spoke of the huge task confronting the 
missionary upon his arrival in the 
African field. 1-Ie emphasized the fact 
that the Christianization of the Afric­
ans is attended by a. social uplifting 
of their women.
PLEBE DRAMA CLASS 
WILL GIVE IPHIGENIÁ
DAY S FliRNISHINGS
6 IOO PENN AVENUE. V
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAI 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.
Vesper's on Sundays at 7:30 P. M 
Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu­
dents.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS,
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:4Fi | 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed. |
1 GET YOUR HAIR CUT ¡B 3 h¡3 ----------at the----------
1 TECH BARBER SHOP I
Nearest to Tech
tj COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
1 FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
a
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
PORBE9 AND ATWOOD STS. 
Phonea 160—3161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
8TUDENTS
BELLEFI ELD PRESBYTERIAN " 
CHURCH 
(Fifth and Bellefleld.)
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN 
M. A. (Glasgow)
D. D. (Pittsbugh) 
will preach at 11 and 8.
Bible School 9:45.
Christian Endeavor 7.
Dr. MacGowan is here to help 
the students. For conference 
ring Schenley 3447.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
3:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
PLEBES ELIMINATED FROM 
A. A. U. TOURNAMENT
The Plebe basket ball team won one 
and lost one game in the A. A. U. Tour­
nament duirng the last week and were 
thus eliminated by the loss. They de­
feated the Homewood M. E. team 
handily by the score of 42 to 26. Lynn 
at center and Riblett at forward both 
played exceptionally good games and 
caged the ball on numerous occasions. 
This game was staged on the Du-
Euripide’s “Ipliigenia in Tauris” will 
be played next Friday In the Little 
Theater by the members of the Plebe 
Drama class of the Department of dra­
matic Arts. This is the second pro­
duction by the Plebes and will prob­
ably be even more successful than 
their first production. It is a Greek 
tragedy of the highest type and will 
give each member of the cast an op­
portunity of showing what he can do 
in the way of tragedy.
It lias not yet been determined 
whether it will be given in the after­
noon or in the evening. However, the 
posters will tell you in plenty of 
time.
* *
BRAID
* ---------- *
•b It is absolutely essential that 4*
* upperclassmen be distinguished 4* 
4* from the plebes by the two black 4*
* bands on each sleeve. The Sci-
•b ence Senate asks each upper- * 
•I* classman to see that that is done *
* this week at the latest. *
* * 
*****************
MAKE SHADYSIDE PRESBYTE­
RIAN CHURCH 
YOUR CHURCH HOME 
Amberson Ave., Near Fifth. 
Church School, 9:45 A. M. 
Margarget Morrison Class, Mrs. 
Frederic B. Shipp, Teacher.
Young Men’s Class, Mr. Harry S. 
Calvert, Teacher.
Morning Service, 11 A. M. 
Evening Service, 8 P. M.
Become a Tech student affiliated 
member of Shadyside Church. 
HUGH T. KERR. D. D., Minister.
TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
, Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac­
tory Rebuilt Ma­
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
Ü ÜRODEF SHALOM TEMPLE §
4905 FIFTH AVENUE m
Near Morewood 
Saturday Services—10:30 A. M. 
Sunday Lectures—10:30 A. M.
Visiting Rabbis from the lead­
ing congregations of the country 
will occupy the pulpit this win­
ter. A different Rabbi each 
week.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School—9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship—11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
VENUS? PENCILS
These famous pen­
cils are the standard 
by which all other 
pencils are judged.
17 black degrees 
6 B softest to 9II hardest 
and hard and medium copying 
Look for the VENUS finish
/FREE !
Trial Samples of 
VENUS Pencils 
and Eraser sent
Plenso enclose 6c in Btampa for packing 
and postage.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
217 Fifth Avenue. .N. Y.
Dept, w n
C. cTVI. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
STATIONER AND 
NEWSDEALER 
Phone 9076 Schenley.
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY 
All this week
“The German Curse 
in Russia”
The greatest of all War Pictures. 
Matinees—1, 3, 5 Evenings—7:30, 9:30
^

---------------------------------------------------

(Continued From Page One.) 
tution. Our hearts are surely in tliis 
work. So let the good work continue. 
It is only by a united effort on the 
part of the forces of the nation that a 
decisive victory will he ours.
I have also heard of the appoint­
ment of our President, Dr. Hamer- 
schlag, to an important post on the 
staff of the Quartermaster General in 
Washington. The organization of this 
department of the war program calls 
for men with special abilities, partic­
ularly constructive thinkers—men 
with imagination—and in this quality 
of mind our president excells.
Since my arrival at the post my du­
ties have been many and varied. In 
turn I have been a company comman­
der, acting quartermaster (for ten 
days only) and am now personnel of­
ficer. The duties under this last des­
ignation are along lines similar to the 
work I was engaged in at Tech last, 
year. I am hoping I may get a com­
pany soon to whip into shape for the 
big game over on the other side.
A few weeks ago I had the pleasure 
of meeting Deans Connelley and Mott 
in Washington and hearing at first 
hand about Tech’s war activities. 
Every son of Tech is proud of his 
Alma Mater.
Regards to all friends,
HENRY J. McCORKLE, 
Captain C. A. R. C.
(Continued From Page One.)
James Church, as "Johnny,’’ his un­
happy son, made that character very 
appealing, while Miss Anna Dice as 
“Mary” the hopeless, listless, poverty- 
stricken wife completed the dismal 
picture.
This was followed by a concise bit 
of fun. with just a touch of pathos, 
called “That Strange Girl Zisco,” by 
Miss Brownwen Chubb. “Brevity's, 
the. Soul of Wit,,” and the author 
seems to have borne this in mind in 
writing this play, which deals with a 
family in Maine, that helps out the 
family income by going about with a 
side-show in the summers to the fairs 
and by keeping boarders in the winter. 
Of course, there is the inevitable 
boarder, who falls in love with the 
“strange girl” known to him as “Al- 
lie” and to the side-show world as 
“Zisco” and it ends happily. The idea 
is novel and very well worked out. Mr. 
David Gaither’s “Joel,” the elder 
brother was done with the languid 
air usually associated with the “down- 
east” drawl. Bishop Dickinson’s “El­
mer’' had all the nivete of the rural 
swain, who is not quite sure of any­
thing but his “feelin’s.” He always 
succeeds with this cnaracter type. 
Miss Ellen Crowe as the “Strange 
Girl Zisco,” made a very favorable 
impression. Her work is always con­
scientious. One caught just a hint of 
her vocal ability in the fragment of 
song, with which she seeks to hide 
her regrets at having to give up go-.1 
irig to the fair with Elmer.
Mr. William Mulligan’s “Myron” the 
younger brother, was one of the most 
striking characterizations of the even­
ing and created much laughter.
The art: play of the bill was Sara 
E. Bennett's “Shadows of Uldane,” an 
episode oi’ Lapland in the eighth cen­
tury. Its appeal to the imagination 
was instant and the illusion continued 
to the end. The stage setting was 
wonderfully effective considering its 
simplicity, the lighting being one of 
th<3 very important fnctors in its suc­
cess.: The weird atmosphere of the
far North was caught and sustained 
throughout. It is a play, about the 
plot of which one does not concern 
oneself. It is lovely in color and in 
content and has a certain power. The 
lines are beautiful and one immerses 
oneselt in this story of primitive emo­
tions. Violante Bollinger’s “Kilnara,” 
the queen, had all the strength of 
unbridled emotion and suggested Ama­
zonian power. Mary Ricards as “Naia," 
her foster child, made this character 
delightful to remember. Her lines 
were read with artistic understanding 
and poetic feeling. She possessed a 
strange charm, with which the imagi­
nation might easily endow a Lapland 
maiden.
George Trabert ’s “Vicking,” complet­
ed the illusion; he brought, the very 
breath of the North with him. Mis 
makeup was most effective, while his 
muscular physique lent a sense of 
great physical power to the role. He 
read his lines with a keen sense of 
their dramatic value. It is one of the 
best things ho has done.
James Church as “Conan,” the serf, 
was in keeping with the other char­
acter and his voice has a quality 
which tends to intensify the mystery 
of mysterious things.
I-Iugo Tostine and W. M. McAteer 
as "Messengers” completed the very 
excellent cast.
The ultra modern contribution to 
the programme was Miss Brownwen 
Chubb’s "After the War,” which may 
be termed a Shavian comedy in one 
act, with plenty of "verve,” and many 
amusing speeches given largely to one 
character, "Connie,” the Fifth avenue 
bus driver, (Miss Chubbs). The" suc­
cess of this part is assured from the 
first, the military clothes cry aloud 
to willing' ears,—what chance ha.ve 
skirts,in, competition with soldier's 
leggings and all the other togs,—and 
then “Connie” smokes like a veteran 
and to crown it all, the garb is stun­
ningly becoming.
The cast gave a much better balanc­
ed performance on Thursday night, 
playing.in a higher key. “Jane” was 
an entirely too subdued female edi­
tor” for these strenuous times, in the 
first performance, but in the next per­
formance “Jane” (Violante Bollinger) 
rose to the occasion and gave the 
character real vitality.
Mr. Norwood Engle’s “Walter” the 
man who finds himself engaged to 
"Connie” and "Jane” at the same time 
(which he does not mind so much) 
but who is driven to desperation at 
the idea of two wives, was a very 
clever bit of work calling' for much 
laughter. He was so delightfully tan­
gled up and nervous over it all. Miss 
Hazel Beck's "Aunt Sue,” who believ­
ed in matrimony at any price was 
quite convincing, while Minette Bud- 
deke, as the “Maid,” completed the cast-
The play is clever in conception 
and in execution and an excellent ve­
hicle for the display of the author’s I 
literary as well as her histrionic tal­
ent.
The school has reason to congratu­
late itself and felicitate its students 
upon this very successful revelation 
of creation genius as shown in these 1 
five plays.
FINAL CLEAN-UP SALE
Men’s Shirts
—THIS WEEK—
ILMREThese are two of the 
24 popular shapes in which you can get the >.A Stratford ,
$1.00 and up
W D C 'Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each a"fine pipe, 
<with sterling silver ring 
land vulcanite bit. 
ILeadingi dealers.in 
itown carry a full. as­
sortment. Select your 
favorite style. (
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York •
World’s Largest Pipe Manufacturere
Nobody Can Complain of High 
Shirt Prices With Such a Sale 
As This Going On.
It will be to your interest to 
make selections at once as this 
sale is our Final Clean-up and 
will be discontinued Saturday, 
March 9th—
$1.50 and $2.00 SHIRTS—All 
sizes, all materials; soft or stiff
stiiea.Cl"0iCe....................$1.00
$2.50. $3-00 and $3.50 SHIRTS 
—All sizes, quarter sizes includ­
ed: all styles; Russian Cords, 
Crepes, Madras, etc., "7C
your choice......................Bn I O
3 for $5.00
WARNING — You’ll not buy 
shirts in mid-summer or next 
fall at anything near these 
prices; neither will we, but our 
new stock is bought, and we 
must make shelf room—BUY 
NOW.
Mellon
¡National
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smithfield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.. 
Capital------ $6,000,000
Genuine'
French
Briar
DO YOU DANCE?Resources Over
$100,000,000 I
ni!l>ll!l!»lilllí:n!i;ini!!:illl¡!lll»!!lllllin!llltlll!]|!llllU!llll¡!l!lll!in!lllll!nillllUIII!¡IIIIUllll
g DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
g Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon- 
r: day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
jg JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
J CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
f.ji^ig/gj^fg]2jgfgj2JS/3M^wrarar3rH)Fr^^~^r_^r^rafpJ.fgjioj3f3Jiii[HirafHiP!rarararar^^''=irarafS]|WILLPYLE¿iSJSMSM3JSMe!MSM3MS®c!ISMSISieliSni!lG3I
 WEBER EXPRESS AND | 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. 1 
Moving, Packing and Storing | 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen* 
eral Hauling Baggage to and E 
from Depots. [|
4616-18-20 HENRY. STREET | 
PITTSBURGH |
THREE STORES 
910 Liberty Avenue 
125 Fifth Ave., Jenkins Arcade 
105 Union ArcadeBATTERY«¦Continued from Page One.-)
ter the banquet gets started, but for 
the pioneers it might be well to say 
that the banquet room will be on the 
second floor of the Colonial Annex 
Hotel, opposite the writing room. The 
Colonial Annex, as remarked last 
week, is still at Sixth street and Penn 
avenue.
Nothing real wet will be served, 
but there will be plenty of smokes, 
and perhaps the menu may be padded 
out with a few extras if other expens­
es don’t run up too high.
Finally, if there ¿are any Seniors 
who don’t know that they are to make 
speeches, they should find out at once 
what their subjects are.
436 Seventh Ave.
All Kinds of BATTERIESMISS ANNE O’LEARY
wishes to announce that she has 
embarked for herself in the clean­
ing, dyeing and pressing buisness 
and solicits the trade of old and 
new friends. She offers special 
rates to students and soldiers.
3933 Forbes Street
Phone 389 Schenley
SERVICERepaired and Recharged 1
Beliefield Shoe i 
Repairing
FORBES STREETE:Opposite Carnegie Library. [u 
High class work done while you & 
wait.
S LOW PRICES TO TECH £ 
i STUDENTS
Give us a trial.
c!fciJcilSlnJ/3ISMG]i3J3MEMSMSM2M3ri£jiiiJCiM3i2MSM3MSMSM3M3M2MSMSMii,fSMSM3JI
 STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS jlj 
New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at g 
Bargain Prices.
BANJO MANDOLINS Special for This Week ¡g
Ten inches diameter, with fine calfskin head, machogany neck a 
and metal rim. Every instrument tested and guaranteed true scale, M 
and powerful tone. Value $12.00. N
Special this week..................................................................................... ^GALLINGER’S I
929 LIBERTY AVENUE Established 1854 nl
iH i?D[3 Bell Phone 3465 Grant. ^
I J. G. Marshall ¡ 
Company |
® OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
Oh, Boy! The Dance in the 
Ballroom of the Schenley lasts 
till three o’clock. Great life!
TRANSITS AND LEVELS; 
ALI* SUPPLIES FOR THË 
DRAFTING ROOM
BERT’S FATIGUE SQUAD.
If you cannot buy a dollar 
ticket, there are lots of them at 
two bits plus your student book. 
Get the Old Tech Spirit and be 
there!
LIBRARY FURNITURE.Bert Munhall reports that the 
fatigue squad are very efficient. He 
hopes that more men than before will 
oversleep or overeat, since the track 
needs rolling. It is a cinch that our 
friend 'Bert doesn’t answer roll call.
959 LIBERTY AVENUEAnd no bond 
in closer union knits two human 
hearts
Than fellowship in grief.
PITTSBURGH, PA.
J|] Engineers' Equipment, lnst.ru- !; 
qD ments of Precision,1 Blue Print {j
(•’j and Brown Print Papers nnrl ;!
j|] Cloths. I
p B. K. ELLIOTT CO. ;;
$ 126 SIXTH STREET
Have You Seen the New Gillettes 
Specially Designed for the Fighting Man?
rTHESE models were designed by members of the
Gillette Organization who have seen service with 
the Colors and know what the soldier is up against.
Hundreds of officers and men are buying- them—the 
U. S. Service Set in metal case, and the new Khaki- 
covered sets for Uncle Sam’s soldiers and officers.
The Gillette is the one razor for the man who is do­
ing things—the one razor with world-wide use and 
reputation.
When a man wants new Blades he can get them at 
any Post Exchange or Y. M. C, A. Hut — here in 
America or Overseas.
Our Paris Office carries stocks—is constantly sup­
plying the American Expeditionary Forces. Gillette 
Safety Razors and Blades on sale everywhere in 
France, England, Italy and the Eastern battle fronts.
¿j A good place to get a good m<|nl.
Meet your friends here on' 
Sunday evening.
I FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor.
CRAIG AND FORBES
j[HjQiji3/inJciniiraiR2/s/s/s/sjs/sjs/sjnijQifcin3inijniiuirn!rni
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENTThe Army of the United States 
Is Shaved Clean
1 10 matter how a man shaved before he went into the Servic'e, he is pretty sure to 
come out of the war a Gillette user.
The first thing he’ll note among his camp mates is that more of them are shaving 
with the Gillette than with all other razors put together.
He’ll see Gillette users in his squad lather up, shave clean, splash the soap off, tuck 
the razor away, and be standing at attention in the inspection line—all in five minutes.
When he gets Overseas, everything is the Gil- itself under extreme conditions—as no other
lette. from the left flank of the British line in razor has or can.
Belgium clear around through France and Italy It has thrown the spotlight on the Gillette
and on the battle fronts of the East. Blades—on the Gillette principle of No Strop-
Soon or late, every man who is doing things ping—No Honing—on the Gillette idea of a
comes to the Gillette. They belong together. simple, compact shaving outfit, no strops or
Ten million up and doing men all over the world hones to clutter up the kit—on the Gillette con-
had discovered the Gillette before the war broke tention that a man’s daily shave should be an
out. The war simply made the Gillette prove incident and not a ceremony.hrRrYt
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple In conatructlon 
and operation that any­
one can use It without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUND8 
Price $50
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR COMPANY
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
Gillette Safety Razor Company, of Canuda, Ltd. 
73 St. Alexander St., Montreal 
Gillette Safety Razor Société Anonyme 
27 Bis, Rue La Boetie, Paris, France
Gillette Safety Razor, Limited 
200 Great Portland St., London, W., England 
A. G. Micheles 
53 Liteiny, Petrograd, Russia
Watch for the last number, * 
which was written for the Home * 
Concert by a Tech student, L. K. * 
Weninger. It will please you and * 
give you a different viewpoint of 
certain places around the school. *5*
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE ; 
FREE DEMONSTRATION 
OPEN EVENING8
Vedova Tosi Quirino & Figli 
Via Senato, 18, Milan, Italy
Wednesday, March 20, 1918 THE TARTAN Ps.ge TllTCO

---------------------------------------------------

Page FourTHE TARTANWednesday, March 20, 1918
CIGARETTE
Makers of the Ihn host ' Crndp Turkish andßqijbiian 'Çigdivïies mïhetyirld.
REMEMBER-
There are no other 
iihe Murad.
cents
SPECIAL
VICTROLA OUTFIT
Viefcrola DC.
Records, rraïiae of.
Other Vidrolas $20.00 to $400.00
Victrola With a Selection of Records Sold 
on Convenient Terms
Instant Record Service 
First Floor at the Door
P. LUDEBUEHLfi SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PEI HUD FRANKS» 
Footprints Lead to Detection
MUSICAL CLUBS SEASON 
PRONOUNCED A SUCCESS
The standing of a man is as oftr- 
as not told by hio footwear—if he i- 
careleso of that, he's apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. I) 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you arc “all right.” Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Fair Special Men’s Dent.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
1
$200,000.00 § 
$200,000.00 L1
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
millllllllllllllllllll!llllllll!llllllllllllllli!ll!|lll!!:m
“A National Institution; ;
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
l1illllinill!linillHI!lltllllllllllllllllliniltKIIII!UI!!ill1!!llll!IIIIIII!inilllll[llllllllillllll!llllllini!lllilllllinil!llllllllillllllllllllll!llll!l!lll:i]!llllllll!!lllllllll!!llllni!lllllllli!!Hllllillllllll!!llIllin!llllllUIIII)lUlin
ALL WORK GUARANTEED PROMPT SERVICE E
a aJAMES PARISI
MODERN ELECTRIC SHOE REPAIRING 
2U/Z ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA,
BEST LEATHER USED 
[ijin/jajjilJiajjiijiiijgjcyiiijinfinjsjcifinniM
McDOUGrALL’S DANCING CLASSES
SHADY AND PENN—DANCES MONDAY, THURSDAY, SATURDAY 
4616 FORBES STREET—FRIDAY EVENINGS 
Private Lessons and Beginners' Classes every day and evening. 
Jazz Fox Trot Ramble Waltz Mirimba Orchestra
At the initial'tryouts of the Musical 
Clubs last October, It was noticeable 
that only a few of the last year’s men 
were back in school and were out to 
make tlteir positions on the clubs 
again. The total count showed that 
not more than fifteen men were back 
who had been in the clubs the preced­
ing year.. New officers had to be elect­
ed to replace those who had not come 
back to school. J. J. Pannabaker was 
elected manager In place of Mr. Reid 
who had entered the service. After 
several months Pannabaker himself 
entered the service and then the man­
ager’s work was taken care of by Mr. 
F. B. Treat and F. A. Faville. , Then 
Treat left school shortly after the sec­
ond semester began and Faville was 
unanimously elested manager. The 
work and the number of concerts that 
he has arranged in the few weeks 
since he has been manager has show­
ed that he will be one of the best man­
agers the clubs have ever had.
Rehearsals have been held every 
Sunday afternoon since last October, 
and the Lime comes this week when 
the fellows will be rewarded for the 
sacrifices they have made during the 
preceding months. The Home Con­
cert., at which all their friends 'are 
present, and then the annual dance 
afterwards at the Schenley, is the re­
ward for the service tendered through­
out the season. It is not much, to be 
sure, but if the fellows are willing to 
do that much for their school, it sure- 
|| ly is the duty of the student body to 
come out and help fill the music hall, 
tomorrow evening.
On November 24, the management 
tendered a smoker to those of the old 
clubs who yet remained from last 
year, with the invited guests consist­
ing of all who had tried out for the 
clubs this season. Old songs were 
sung, spieeches were mad|e by the 
members of the executive committee, 
and several stunts pulled off by vari­
ous ones who were trying out for the 
specially numbers on this year’s pro­
gram.
The concert season opened on the 
fourth of January, with the annual 
Charity concert at the Pittsburgh City 
Home at Mayview. This was one of 
the most successful opening concerts 
the clubs ltave ever given. On the sev­
enth of February, the clubs gave a
concert in the Latrobe High School 
Auditorium. Here they made a decid­
ed hit, and the townspeople said that 
without a doubt they would be able( to 
give a concert there next year. After 
the concert the clubs were given a 
dance at one of the city clubs.
The clubs made the trip to Taren- 
turn last Tuesday evening and gave a 
concert in the Y. M. C. A. under the 
auspices of the- Junior High School 
class. The house was filled and some 
seats were sold twice so that the man­
agement had trouble in accommodat­
ing the people. Although the fellows 
had to leave Tarentum early, there 
was time enough to méet and dance 
for a half hour with some fine young 
ladies.
This year the management changed 
so often that the matter of booking 
concerts was delayed, so that the most 
of them are yet to come. Such places 
as New Castle,. Youngstown, Warren, 
(Ohio), Erie, Swissvale, and several 
local concerts are yet to be given. On 
the nineteenth of April the clubs will 
be one of the attractions at the big 
benefit to be given in the Syria 
Mosque. There will be about 4,000 
people there and this bids fair to be 
one of the largest undertakings the 
Carnegie Musical Clubs have ever par­
ticipated in.
NAVAL RESERVE FORCE
INTERESTS THIRTYiMEN
(Continued From Page One) 
fice in Pittsburgh has been instructed 
to enroll such students fro^your Col­
lege as may apply there. They should 
have a letter from you stating that 
they are bona fide students taking 
technical course at your colelge.
I wilL thank you. if you will so in­
struct the thirty students referred to 
in your telegram to report to the Re­
cruiting Officer in Pittsburgh.
Thanking you for past favors, I am, 
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) M. S. TUCKER. 
Lieutenant U. S. N. R. F-, 
District Enrolling Officer.
Lieutenant Tucker was in charge of 
the recruiLing party which toured to 
State College last week. As announced 
in the last issue of The Tartan, there 
was a possibility of the party’s visiting 
Tech, but the reason for its failure to 
do so lies, doubtless, in the small num­
ber of men that have responded. The 
thirty men have all necessary informa­
tion in the above letter. Any ques­
tions that may arise will no doubt be 
answered at the Navy Recruiting Of­
fice in Pittsburgh.
ATTENTION!!!
Your uniform and equipments can be secured at 
a very low figure. All U. S. Regulation goods. We 
have on hand a full supply'of:
O. D. WOOL BLOUSE AND BREECHES... .$18.00 
O. D. COTTON BLOUSE AND BREECHES. .$6.25 
Caps ............$1.50-$2.00 TRENCH CO ATS. $8.50
SHOES ............$6.50
SHIRTS .. .........$3.50
HATS................$1.75
MILITARYBOOKS
OVERCOATS
MACKINAWS..$16.50
SWEATERS ....$4.00 *V
GLOVES................90c *
INSIGNIAS ..15c *
PUTTEES....$2.00 up %
V
Army & Navy 
Store Co.
Incorporated 
LARGEST MILITARY OUTFITTERS 
REMOVED TO
623 Liberty Avenue
Bell Phone Court 4450
A THOUSANDNIDRESSINGS
SHIPPED BY AUXILIARY
(Continued From Page One.)
to take the I’s of the world to win 
this war. What good will art, mu­
sic, drama, etc., be if we lose this 
war—so
Be a sport and not a slacker 
Not Kaiser Bill’s, but'Wilson’s backer, 
and
Join the Red Cross Auxiliary 
at 
Tech."
More than 1,000 surgical dressings 
were delivered to headquarters last 
week and for this week's delivery 
there are ready 100 sheets, 80 towels, 
and 6 hospital shirts. This is the 
second shipment this winter, proving 
the industry of the girls of the M. M. 
(,!. S. and of the School of Design. As 
a further proof of their earnestness, 
we submit the schedule of the two 
schools:
School of Design: Surgical dress­
ings daily from 11:30 a. in. to 2:00 
p. m.
MVT. M. C. S.: Tuesday morning, 8:30 
to 10:00 o’clock; Wednesday after­
noon, 1:30 to 5:30 o’clock; Thursday 
evening, 7:00 to 9:30 o’clock.
MAY FESTIVAL PROGRAM
FOR MAY 17, COMPLETED
(Continued From Page One.)
T^he committees in charge of the 
Festival consist of:
Executive Committee—
Ida Richter, Pres. A. A.
Mary Bechtel 
Ruth Ross 
Harriet Stone 
Costume—
Bernice Kruger 
M. Harner
Dorothy Turkle, for'Morris Dance 
Helen Senn, for Woodland Dance 
Emily King, for Wave Dance'
C. Trogs, for Minkmaids Dance. 
Irma Friedman, for Fiddlers’ Dance 
R. Tobert, for Garland Dance 
Marion Bach, Village Children 
Helen Hewit, Maypole Dance 
Program—
Phyllis McMarlin, chairman 
Barbara Endres 
G. Crawford 
S. Hamin 
I. Davis 
Properties Committee—
Helen Clark, chairman 
Blanche Sheppard 
N. Curtis 
A. Scliade.
A fiat” and Chopin’s “Waltz, op. 42.” 
Her performance was very cordially 
received.
Beethoven’s “Romnce in F,” (for 
violin) Miss Dorothy Manor, was one 
of the most interesting numbers on 
the programme. She evinces an ar­
tistic understanding of her instrument 
which always renders her work en­
joyable.
The group of piano numbers: Novel­
ette, op. 21, No. 1, Schuman; Etude 
No. 7, Chopin: Rondo .Brilliant, Weber, 
played by Miss Florence Warren, was 
among the best numbers of the even­
ing. The performance showed finish 
and musical understanding.
Mr. ueovge Curry, ’cello, assisted 
by Miss Edna Tilghman, piano, gave 
a very enjoyable performance of 
Greig’s “Sonate” or ’cello and piano: 
The number was most cordially re­
ceived, the 'cello being a favored in­
strument with the concert going pub­
lic.
Miss Ethel Shuman played Beeth­
oven’s Sonata op. 81, No. 2, for piano. 
She was at her best in the last two 
movements. Her phrhsing was intel­
ligent, but her tone wanted vitality.
She has been heard to better advan­
tage on former occasions.
The “Fassacaglit” for violin and 
viola by Handel-Halvorsen. Mr. France 
Kleyle and Mr. Roland Bellingham 
was a novelty and they deserve great 
credit for making the experiment. 
“Passacaglia’s” are like olives, an ac­
quired taste. The- number received 
hearty applause.
Mr. Robert McGowan concluded the 
programme with the following group 
for piano: “Serenade,” by Levantine;
Etude, op. 64, No. 2, Cyril Scott; 
Rhapsody, No. 6’, Liszt. His best work 
was in Etude 64 Scott. His attack 
was sure and tone, crisp and clean. 
The rest of his work lacked spirit and 
certainty. Mr. McGowan has been 
heard to much better adantage on for­
mer programmes.
The next concert will be given 
April 14.
Ask any upper classman about -I- 
the concert last year. He will -> 
advise you to go. -I-
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
GIVES SUNDAY CONCERT
The Department of Music, School 
of Applied Design, gave an interest­
ing programme, in the theater, on Sun­
day evening. March 17, before a large 
and appreciative audience. The pre­
ponderance of piano numbers made 
the programme seem rather lengthy. 
Miss Helen Eyles opened the pro­
gramme with Reinecke’s “Ballade in
