i
Cwens, Scimitars 
Lay Plans 
For Next Year 
See Page 2—
VOL. 48—No. 23
Track Team 
Wins 29th 
Consecutive Meet 
See Page 5—
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., APRIL 19, 1955
Dr. Warner's Annual Report 
Expresses General Satisfaction
i
In the recently released fifty-first annual report of the presi­
dent, Dr. J. C. Warner expressed satisfaction with the school’s record 
for the academic year 1953-54. He commended the faculty for 
continued achievement in professional activities, research, and
other creative work? as well as in#------—---------------—----------------------
teaching. Many of the faculty
have been honored for their ac­
complishments during the past 
year.
President Warner made special 
mention of the accrediting com­
mittee which visited Carnegie’s 
campus in the fall of 1953, and 
made suchm a thorough inspection 
of everything from the buildings 
down to committee minutes and 
exam papers that it took them a 
year to evaluate their collected in­
formation. However, their report 
was extensive and satisfying when 
it was released, and in addition to 
full accreditation, Tech received 
many valuable suggestions for im­
provement.
In the realm of future planning, 
much progress is being made. 
Carnegie’s past development and 
present status has been carefully 
analyzed. A trustees’ committee 
on development is now defining 
our needs in plant and finances. 
Work on the fraternity housing 
plan is scheduled to begin this 
summer. Donner Hall has already 
provided a much needed improve­
ment in the men’s housing facili­
ties.
Concern Over Development
However, Dr. Warner expressed 
deep concern over the personal 
[Continued on page 8]
Unique Lending 
System Expected 
To Encourage Art
Funds have been provided for 
the establishment of a Pittsburgh 
Plan For Art. The first objective 
of PFA will be maintenance of a 
continually varied showing in 
plan headquarters of a cross sec­
tion of every style of painting 
and sculpture by regional artists.
The constantly changing dis­
play will serve as a center where 
citizens of the Pittsburgh area 
may come regularly to select a 
work of art which they would 
like to consider in their homes or 
offices at leisure.
Dean Rice Director
Funds for PFA are being ad­
ministered by Carnegie Tech. The 
Plan is being directed by Norman 
L. Rice, Dean of the College of 
Fine Arts. An advisory committee 
of interested citizens is in the 
process of formation and will be 
announced soon.
Norman L. Rice, arrived in 
Pittsburgh last September to as­
sume his new duties at Carnegie 
Tech. He was born and educated 
in Illinois, taught at the School 
of the Art Institute of Chicago, 
and eventually became its dean 
and a member of their museum 
staff. Following active service in 
the USNR as Lt. Commander, 
Rice in 1946 became Director of 
the School of Art at Syracuse 
University and later a member 
of the Board of Directors of the 
Syracuse Museum of Art.
In discussing the plan, Dean 
Kice said, “Although numerous 
art rental plans are in operation 
in various parts of the country, 
to our knowledge, no other free 
lending plan of this sort exists. 
I am hopeful that Pittsburgh 
Plan For Art will develop a new 
®nd effective pattern to encour­
age the growth of art under­
standing. Eventually, it may pro- 
[Continued on page 8J
Mr. Kyaw Than 
To Speak On Asia 
Tuesday, Apr. 26
Students and faculty are invited 
to an open assembly on Tuesday, 
April 26 at 11:30 a.m. in the SIA 
auditorium to hear Mr. Kyaw 
Than from Burma. Mr. Than is 
the associate general secretary of 
the World’s Student Christian 
Federation. He is the first Asian 
ever to hold that post, and is vis­
iting numerous campuses across 
the United States and Canada.
His topic will be “The Revolu­
tionary Ferment in Southeast 
Asia.” Asia has been exposed to 
the vigorous impact of the dy­
namic Western world with -'its 
technological emphasis, conse­
quently its whole concept of life 
and its political and social struc­
tures have been thoroughly dis­
turbed. The changes taking place 
in Asia are- evident, and their 
ramifications are felt in almost 
all spheres of Asian life.
Wide Experience
Kyaw Than graduated in the 
field of history at the University 
of Rangoon, and has also served 
there on the faculty as professor 
of history. Besides this, Mr. Than 
has traveled extensively in Eur­
ope and most of Asia. Last sum­
mer he served as a consultant at 
the World Council of Churches 
Assembly held in Evanston, Illi­
nois.
Freshmen who cannot hear Mr. 
Than speak because they are ex­
pected to attend the Engineering 
and Science assembly, will be 
able to have lunch with Mr. Than 
in the Blue Room of Morewood 
Gardens.
Kiltie Concert A 
Success: Laivn? yConcerts Planned
The Kiltie Concert Band pres­
ented its annual Spring Concert 
under the direction of Robert 
Cantrick Friday evening in the 
Carnegie Music Hall. The program 
opened with a selection by the 
Kiltie Band pipers and proceeded 
with March Slav by Tschaikow- 
sky, Pictures at an Exhibition by 
Moussogorsky, Hanson’s Chorale 
and Alleliua. Borodin’s Prince 
Igor Ballet music. Four marches, 
the Apollo Morch by Bruckner, 
Sea Songs by Williams, Hanson’s 
March Carillon and Prokofieff’s 
March, Opus 99, closed the pro­
gram.
The Kiltie Band, which includes 
65 Tech students, will play at 
Spring' Carnival Call Day and is 
tentatively planning a series of 
lawn concerts this spring to be 
held on the Fine Arts lawn during 
the Tuesday noon hour. They are 
now rehearsing about three times 
a week in the Fine Arts Exhi­
bition Hall. Bill Watso is the stu­
dent manager of the organization.
Midivay Meeting
The final Midway Commit­
tee meeting will be held Wed­
nesday, April 20, at 4:30 at 
the ATO House. All organi­
zations planning to have a 
booth on the midway this 
Spring Carnival should attend.
Bob Russell
New Tartan Editor
New Officers 
For Tartan
By Paul Carmichael
Bob Russell, sophomore electri­
cal engineer, was elected Editor- 
in-Chief of the Tartan for the 
coming year it was announced at 
the annual Tartan banquet held in 
the Park Schenley restaurant on 
Monday evening* April 4. Vic 
Shiry, junior chemical engineer, 
was named as business manager. 
These appointments and other 
staff positions were the result of a 
recent election by the editorial 
staff of the Tartan. The new staff 
assumes their duties with this
Bob is the first sophomore to be 
elected to the editorship in many 
years. A search of old Tartans 
found no record of a sophomore 
ever having held this position. 
Well qualified for the job, he has 
served on the Tartan as copy 
editor, copy and headline writer, 
and on the layout staff. Active in 
extra-curricular activities, he is 
secretary of Pi Kappa Alpha fra­
ternity, member of the Tech 
YMCA. Techon, and representa­
tive to the Student Christian Fed­
eration.
[Continued on page 3]
Big Carnival Week 
Scheduled For Tech
Amusements, Booth Competition,
Dances, And Egg Throw To Be Held
With Easter vacation firmly tucked away under their belts, the 
Spring Carnival committee is working rapidly to complete plans for 
the big weekend. With, a bit of the new to add variety and interest 
to the traditional events and a dash of internationalism for season-
----------------------------------------------------?ing, the recipe for a really great
~ . | carnival seems assured of success.Student Council 
Prohibits Combos 
During Carnival
A motion was passed to pro­
hibit any professional musical 
aggregation from appearing on 
campus during Spring Carnival 
with the exception of the regu­
lar scheduled Spring Carnival 
dances at the last meeting of Stu­
dent Council held Wednesday, 
April 13. This action was taken 
to prohibit fraternities from hir­
ing outside musical organizations. 
It was felt that these combos 
would be in competition with the 
Spring Carnival dances and this 
has been the case in the past sev­
eral years.
Action was also taken on a mo­
tion ‘ tabled from the previous 
meeting that changed Article 3, 
Section 2, Paragraph E of the Stu­
dent Council Constitution. The 
wording was changed to read that 
Student Council has the right to 
schedule social events and stu­
dent rallies except during class 
hours. Before change this part of 
the article had read Student Coun­
cil could schedule activities any­
time. It was made to fall in line 
with recent decisions handed down 
by the administration.
It was announced that letters 
will soon be sent to the social or­
ganizations on campus requesting 
information about future social 
activities for the social calender 
for next year. It is hoped that the 
required information will be* re­
turned on time in order to make 
the committee’s work easier.
SAE To Show Top Sport Cars 
At Annual District Car Meet
On Wednesday, April 20, the SAE Student Branch here at Tech 
will hold its annual Sports Car Meet at 7:30 p.m. in the newly re­
finished lecture room, Porter Hall 100 (formerly PH 104), with a 
display of the finest in the line of sports and sports-touring cars in
the parking lot immediately to the*-----------------------------------------------------
rear of Porter Hall. The society 
cordially extends an invitation to 
all who are interested in this meet­
ing to attend.
Realizing the swiftly growing 
American interest in the fast yet 
exceptionally safe auto which pro­
vides the utmost in driving pleas­
ure, the SAE is holding this meet­
ing to further this interest, and to 
provide those who like fine cars 
with a chance to view the best 
the district has to offer, as well as 
to present an exhibit of fine engi­
neering and craftsmanship.
Guest speaker for the meeting 
will be Mr. G. P. Schuck-Kolben, 
presently chief of information at 
the Pittsburgh Consolidated Coal 
Co. Research Laboratories, and a 
member of the Steel Cities Region 
of the Sports Club of America.
Two excellent films are being 
acquired for showing at this meet­
ing. One of the films will be a 
[Continued on page 8]
PiDE Initiates 
Fourteen Members 
At Special Meeting
Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
journalistic honorary, initiated 14 
new members on Monday eve­
ning, April 18, at the Carnegie 
Union. New initiates, chosen for 
their contributions to campus 
publications, included: Victor
Shiry, Jack Recker, Tom Wright, 
Terry Sharp, Barbara Moore, Kay 
Egan, Mary Tinker, Joan New­
man, Robert Russell, Joel Levin­
son, Marjo King, Evelyn Alessio, 
Stephanie Mackay, and Pat 
Mitchell.
The president of Pi DE, Stan 
Rosenberg, officiated at the ini­
tiation; other officers are: June 
Sochatoff, vice president; Nancy 
Davis, secretary-treasurer; Don 
Gross, social chairman.
The midway will take on a “new 
look.” The Ken Penn Amusement 
Company is bringing six rides for 
the cut; one of them is completely 
new and will be used first here at 
Tech. In addition, fraternity 
booths on the cut will be judged 
for the first time. The basis for 
judging will be:
1. Appropriateness of decora­
tion and display to the theme.
2. Effectiveness—intrigue, qual­
ity, craftsmanship.
3. Originality of display.
These criteria were set up by
the midway committee and fra­
ternity representatives. Compe­
tent persons have been selected to 
judge the event. Judging will 
take place Thursday, May 5, at 
9:30 p.m.
Faculty Egg Throwing
Again the faculty comes out of 
their shells to make a big hit-or- 
miss-in the egg-throwing contest 
to be held Friday at 3:00 p.m. on 
the Fine Arts lawn. This event, 
inaugurated last year, was such a 
success that the carnival commit­
tee felt it worthy of being staged 
again. Any faculty team desiring 
to enter this competition can do so 
by calling Mike Driscoll at Schen­
ley 1-9313.
Who will be crowned Carnival 
Queen? The winner will be pre­
sented on Flagstaff Hill Friday, 
May 6. During the same program, 
beginning at 1:00 p.m., the campus 
honoraries will call their new 
members, and other campus or­
ganizations will make their 
awards.
Bob Livingston, a senior in the 
Department of Drama, known for 
his antics, will serve as master of 
ceremonies.
Name Band Will Play
This year as last a street dance 
will be held Friday night in front 
of Engineering Hall. A really great 
local band will provide the music 
for dancing from 9:00 to 12:00.
Each year the question arises— 
do we want an expensive big name 
band or a cheaper, less well-known 
group? This year’s committee, 
looking back at the success of Lio­
nel Hampton last year and believ­
ing that Tech students want and 
deserve a big name band, decided 
in favor of the big band. However, 
we’re keeping the name a secret 
for one more week.
Tickets
This week, tickets for 
“Adults Only” will go on sale 
in Skibo for $1.80 each. Al­
though an enterprising printer 
has circulated pieces of paste 
board marked “Exclusively 
For Children,” all holding 
these tickets are warned that 
only tickets bearing the mark 
“Adults Only” will be hon­
ored at the door, whether pre­
sented by children or adults.
Scotch n Soda’s production 
will run May 2, 3. 4, and 5, 
the week preceding Spring 
Carnival.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 19, 1955
Ì DICK FETTER joined G.E. in 1947 after 
I receiving a B.S. from Bucknell Uni* 
£ versity, and serving 32 months in the 
1 Air Corps. At G.E. he completed the 
I Business Training Course, class of ’49.
Cwens, Scimitars Pool Ideas, 
Plan For Next Fall’s Freshmen
Busy with the choosing of next year’s members, Cwens and 
Scimitars have also been active in laying groundwork for the new 
groups. On Apiil 5, the Cwens and Scimitars met to discuss this 
year’s successes and failures, their causes, and how they can help 
next year’s groups avoid the same* 
pitfalls. Dick Aiken, president of 
Scimitars, led the meeting. The 
Scimitars added their ideas and 
criticism to those which the Cwens 
brought with them from their last 
meeting.
In previous years the biggest 
problem of the sophomore honor - 
aries has been lack of cooperation 
on the part of both faculty and 
upperclassmen. Freshman regula­
tions were put into effect to ac­
quaint the freshman with the 
school, the student body, and the 
traditions, to create school spirit, 
and to give the freshman class a 
feeling of unity and belonging.
It is difficult to create school 
spirit in the freshmen when the 
upper classmen have so little. The 
Cwens and Scimitars feel that one 
of the biggest reasons that there 
isn’t more school spirit is that it 
isn’t “fashionable” to have it.
With the support of CFP, Pan Hel, 
the various honorary organizations, 
the Young Men’s and Women’s 
Associations, and the faculty and 
administration, freshman regula­
tions can be made effective.
Ideas On Enforcement Discussed
Various means of enforcing reg­
ulations, and making the orienta­
tion program enjoyable were dis­
cussed. The two groups would like 
to publish or post pictures of all 
the freshmen, so that they may be 
readily distinguished, and can have 
the opportunity of meeting more 
people. The power to enforce the 
various freshman duties will be 
extended to all upper classmen.
Parties which include the whole 
freshman class, and probably one 
to include the sophomore class may 
possibly be held in the recreation 
room of Morewood Gardens.
The two honoraries are discus­
sing their tentative plans with the 
administration, and plan to hold 
a meeting for both old and new 
Cwens and Scimitars after Spring 
Carnival so that the sophomores 
may offer their advice and ideas 
to the new groups, and so the new 
groups may ask questions. They 
are looking forward to the success 
of next year’s groups.
Room And Board 
Rates Increased
Dr. Douglas F. Miner, Director 
of the Division of Student Per­
sonnel and Welfare, announced 
recently that the room and board 
ratés at Morewood Gardens will 
be increased $25 a semester com­
mencing with the fall semester of 
1955.
Although it was known last 
year that increases in labor costs 
and fixed charges would increase 
the total operating cost, a change 
in rates was postponed until it 
became certain that a substantial 
deficit is being incurred for the 
year 1954-55. The rate increase is 
necessary because Morewood 
Gardens, like the other CIT dorm­
itories, is operated on a no-profit, 
no-loss basis.
Cheerleading
Preliminary c h e e Heading 
tryouts will be held on Tues­
day and Wednesday of this 
week at 4:30 p.m. in Thistle 
Hall.
April Scot Has 
Best of Humor 
Of Other Schools
The April issue of the Scot, 
currently on the stands, is what 
the Scot staff calls the exchange 
issue. They have done diligent 
research in many other humor 
magazines to find the be§t articles 
for the entertainment of Tech 
students. Careful not to plagarize, 
obviously, the Scot honestly gives 
credit for most of the material 
which is lifted. To avoid becom­
ing merely a digest' the Scot has 
filled the remaining space in the 
magazine with its own brand of 
humor.
It is necessary for the staff to 
obtain its original material from 
the lower strata of humorous 
ideas in order to keep the circu­
lation up to par. Also, this mat­
ter of sex is an ever timely one, 
and affords unlimited supplies of 
crude humor for quick consump­
tion and for last-minute filler 
material.
Many Amusing Reprintings
For those who are humor maga­
zine subscribers, there is in this 
issue of the Scot an interesting 
and cute, if rather risque, article 
of the various types of coeds, 
from the Ohio Green Goat. Other 
articles are taken from such pub­
lications as the Columbia Jester 
and Punch. There are three or 
four original articles and the 
usual assortment of jokes gather-
ed far and wide. The extravagant 
color scheme (courtesy of R. J. 
Reynolds Tobacco Co.) is espec­
ially noteworthy.
The sixth and final issue of the 
Scot this year will be the Spring 
Carnival issue.
Cwens, the sophomore women’s 
honorary, helps orientate and ad­
just freshmen girls to college life.
T echnical
An advisory board meeting 
for the Carnegie Technical has 
been called for 7:30, April 26, 
at the Carnegie Union. Mem­
bers are urged to attend with 
their suggestions for possible 
subject matter. **>
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society presents the
PHILADELPHIA
ORCHESTRA
EUGENE ORMANDY Conducting
SYRIA MOSQUE, MAY 3
8:40 P.M.\
This is the first Pittsburgh concert by the Philadelphia Orchestra since February 11, 1950
PROGRAM
HOWARD HANSON..............Sinfonia Sacra (Symphony No. 5)HINDEMUTH ............................ Symphony, “Mathis der Maler”
YARDUMIAN............................................... Armenian DancesDEBUSSY ......................:....................................................... La Mer|)
STUDENT TICKETS
*1.00 and 75^
REGISTRAR’S OFFICE-Mrs. King
What young people are doing at General Electric I tmsts m \
English Scientist 
Leading Speaker 
At Tech Meeting
Dr. T. F. Hoar, famous English 
metallurgist, will address the 
Pittsburgh business and industry 
representatives at Tech’s Re­
search Conference 15 Friday, 
April 22.
The conference will deal with 
“Electro-Chemistry in Metal­
lurgy,” and Dr. Hoar will speak on 
selected topics in this field. Now 
a professor of metallurgy at 
Cambridge University, Dr. Hoar 
received international recognition 
when his thesis research became 
a classic on the corrosion of 
metals. It was the last quantita­
tive proof of the electrochemical 
nature of corrosion in equeous 
solutions.
Prior to Dr. Hoar’s address, the 
Pittsburgh representatives will 
hear Dr. G. Derge discuss the 
chemistry of metallurgical slags 
and Dr. G. M. Pound will talk 
about electrical characteristics of 
molten copper and sulphide. He 
and Dr. Derge recently discover­
ed that molten copper sulphide 
behaves like a semi-conductor, 
conducting electronically rather 
than ionically.
Other speakers will be Dr. 
Ling Yang and Dr. M. Simmad 
both of this school. Dr. Robert 
F. Mehl, head of the metallurgy 
department at Tech, will preside.
The research conferences are 
part of the school’s plan to serve 
industry with new basic knowl­
edge through cross-fertilization 
of scientific ideas.
Vaughn Monroe, famous band 
leader, was a music student here 
at Tech in 1931.
Young manager 
handles finances 
for building of 
$5,000,000 plant
In the next ten years, the demand for General 
Electric industrial heating equipment will 
double. To meet this demand, a giant new 
plant (model at right) is being built at 
Shelbyville, Indiana.
The plant will cost $5,000,000, and the 
man responsible for handling finances for 
the entire job is 32-year-old R. E. Fetter.
Fetter’s job is important, responsible
Dick Fetter’s work as Financial Manager of 
the Department began long before General 
Electric started building the plant. He and 
his group first had to estimate probable op­
erating costs and predict whether the plant 
would be profitable.
Now, during construction, Fetter’s chief 
concern is keeping track of all the expenses 
on this multimillion-dollar project. When 
the plant is completed, he will set up a 
complete financial section and manage 
everything from tax, cost, and general ac­
counting to payrolls, budgets and measure­
ments, and internal auditing.
25,000 coHege graduates at General Electric
This is a big job. Fetter was readied for it 
in a careful step-by-step program of devel­
opment. Like Fetter, each of the 25,000 col­
lege-graduate employees is given his chance 
to grow, to find the work he does best, and 
to realize his full potential. For General 
Electric has long believed this: When young, 
fresh minds are given freedom to make prog­
ress, everybody benefits—the individual, the 
company, and the country.
Progress Is Our Most Important Product
GENERAL ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

# ______________________________________ Tuesday, April 19, ’955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page S
--------------------------------------- " ^
Religious Activities
Tuesday, April 19
Westminster Foundation: Dinner meeting 5:30 at the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church. Speaker—Rev. Kim, Western Theological Sem­
inary, formerly minister in Korea.
Wednesday, April 20 
Wesley Fellowship: 6:00 p.m. Lunch at Skibo cafeteria fol­
lowed by program at the Christ Methodist Church with guest speaker 
Dr. Arthur Kannwischer of Pitt’s department of Philosophy. 
Thursday, April 21 
Roger Williams Fellowship: Square dance 7:30-10:30 p.m. Gene 
Clawson calling. Admission $.75.
Sunday, April 24 
YMCA: Branch Council meeting 4:00 p.m. at Carnegie Union. 
Officers for next semester will be elected.
Monday, April 25 
Westminster Foundation Seminar: 1:30 p.m. in AH 132F. Group 
leader will be the Rev. Vin Stratton and the discussion leader will 
be Jay Early.
Tuesday, April 26
Westminster Foundation: 5:30 Dinner meeting at the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church. Speaker Dr. Robert J. Lamont of the First 
Presbyterian Church.
Dr. Leyesmeyer 
To Discuss Russia
This week Dr. Karlis Leyes- 
meyer, the world famous author­
ity on Russia and its satellites, 
will deliver a series of lectures at 
pitt on the only successful way to 
combat Communism. In addition 
§to these, and of special interest to 
Tech students, will be the talk 
“How to Solve the Three Fateful 
Problems of Present Day Life,” 
which he will give at 8:00 p.m. 
Friday, April 22 in the West Penn 
Nurses Residence, 4900 Friend­
ship Avenue.
Dr. Leyesmeyer knows what he 
is talking about. He was born and 
raised in Latvia. He saw the Com­
munists take over his country. 
gjTwice he was before a firing 
squad: the first time the com­
mands “Ready . . . Aim . . 
were given—but the final com­
mand was never started. Dr. Ley­
esmeyer gained an extremely 
thorough education in Latvia 
where he taught in a college. He 
has earned numerous doctor’s de­
grees in his main field of study— 
philosophy and psychology.
He later came to this country 
where he spoke before members 
of Congress and other influential 
people concerning Communism 
and how to combat it. As of now, 
he is traveling around the country 
speaking at colleges and before 
groups o f community leaders 
about the Communist menace. His 
answer to creeping Communism is 
powerful, meaningful, alert 
Christianity.
Ticket Sellers
Anybody wanting to sell 
tickets for the rides on the 
midway during Spring Carni­
val is asked to sign up in the 
Dean of Men’s office. The pay 
rate is $.70 per hour.
Omicron Nu is a national home 
economics honorary whose mem­
bers are taken from the top 
20 per cent of the senior home 
economics class.
New Equipment 
Set For Printing 
Summer Session
Facilities and equipment being 
installed in Tech’s School of 
Printing Management will be 
available this summer to students 
taking the six-week course being 
offered from June 27 through 
August 6. Summer session stu­
dents will also be permitted to 
participate in 16 technical ses­
sions, part of a five-day confer­
ence on graphic arts this summer.
Summer Courses Open To Many
The summer courses in printing 
are desi§ne(i to aid teachers of 
printing, commercial shop em­
ployees, and others working or 
interested in the graphic arts who 
cannot attend normal academic 
sessions. Individual courses in 
planning, design, estimating, cost 
accounting, and management will 
be offered, as well as skill-devel- 
opment courses in typography, 
presswork and photolithography.
Professor Burchard, who is in 
charge of the summer printing 
program, pointed out that sum­
mer students may take one or 
more courses as desired. Fees will 
be on the individual course basis, 
ranging from $38 to $58, de­
pending on subject. Applicants 
will be considered on the basis 
of previous education, training 
or printing experience.
Advanced applications may be 
filed with the Director of Sum­
mer Sessions, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa.
Mr. Sawyer Tells 
The Urgency Of 
Housing Problem
Mr. Roland Sawyer, Director 
of the Pittsburgh Housing Asso­
ciation discussed the problems of 
adequate housing for minority 
groups last Sunday evening at 
the April discussion meeting of 
the Panel of Americans.
Mr. Sawyer pointed out that 
the problems are becoming par­
ticularly acute because of the 
new plans for the lower Hill Dis­
trict redevelopment project. This 
project will include a giant audi­
torium seating 19,000. But the 
project cannot be undertaken un­
less adequate substitute housing is 
found for the families now living 
in this area.
The problem of rehousing these 
people is particularly serious be­
cause 5/6 of the families involved 
are colored, it is virtually 
impossible for a negro to 
build or buy a home or lot in 
suburban Pittsburgh, and almost 
as impossible for a negro to ob­
tain a mortgage even if he is able 
to find a lot and builder. Some 
of the reasons for this are: the 
refusal of many white owners to 
sell properties to negroes; the 
conservatism of realtors; and the 
refusal of many banks to consider 
loans for negroes.
New Housing Units To Help
The problem will be somewhat 
alleviated by the new public 
housing units of South Side and 
Spring Hill. Discrimination in 
Pittsburgh’s Public Housing has 
been completely eliminated.
In conclusion, Mr. Sawyer 
warned that the present housing 
situation is the ultimate test of 
the Pittsburgh renaissance, for 
unless racial barriers can be 
torn down enough to house these 
8,000 people, the redevelopment 
movement will be stopped. We 
must now decide whether the 
Pittsburgh Renaissance is to be a 
project only for the huge indus­
trial enterprises or whether it 
will be a grass-roots project for 
evei'yone.
Pi DE Party
Pi Delta Epsilon, national 
journalistic honorary frater­
nity, is having a party for all 
people working for and in­
terested in student publica­
tions at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 
April 26. at the ATO house.
New Staff—
[Co itinued from page 1]
Vic Shiry has served as assist­
ant business manager for the past 
year. He is a junior chemical en­
gineer and a member of Tau Delta 
Phi fraternity. Tom Wright was 
elected sports editor. He is a 
junior in printing management 
and a member of Alpha Tau 
Omega.
Others named to positions were: 
News Editor, Marjo King; Fea­
tures Editor, Stephanie Mackay; 
Assistant Business Manager, 
Marty Ostroff; Copy Editor, Rich­
ard Fox; Circulation Manager, 
Harley Bernbach; Advertising 
Manager, Bob Sorkin.
Thistle
The last opportunity to ob­
tain a subscription for the 
1955 Thistle will be this Wed­
nesday and Thursday. They 
will be sold in Skibo from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on both 
days. The price is S5.00.
Anyone who has paid the 
down-payment may finish 
paying the balance at this 
time.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, naijied for Andrew Car­
negie’s mother, was opened in 
1906.
On CamposwithMaxôhuiman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek,” etc.)
SCIENCE MADE SIMPLE: NO. 3
Once again the makers of Philip Morris, men who are dedicated 
to the betterment of American youth, have consented to let me 
use this space, formally intended for levity, to bring you a brief 
lesson in science.
It is no new thing, this concern that the makers of Philip 
Morris feel for American youth. Youth was foremost in their 
minds when they fashioned their cigarette. They were aware 
that the palate of youth is keen and eager, awake to the subtlest 
nuances of flavor. And so they made a gentle and clement smoke, 
a suave blending of temperate vintage tobaccos, a summery 
amalgam of the most tranquil and emollient leaf that their 
buyers could find in all the world. And then they designed their 
cigarette in two sizes, king-size and regular, and wrapped them 
in the convenient Snap-Open pack, and priced them at a figure 
that youth could afford, and made them available at every 
tobacco counter in the land.
That’s what they did, the makers of Philip Morris, and I for 
one am glad.
The science that we take up today is called astronomy, from the 
Greek words astro meaning “sore” and nomy meaning “back.” 
Sore backs were the occupational disease of the early Greek 
astronomers, and no wonder! They used to spend every blessed 
night lying on the damp ground and looking up at the sky, and 
if there’s a better way to get a sore back, I’d like to hear about it. 
Especially in the moist Mediterranean area, where Greece is 
generally considered to be.
Lumbago and related disorders kept astronomy from becom­
ing very popular until Galileo, a disbarred flenser of Perth, 
fashioned a home made telescope in 1924 out of three Social 
Security cards and an ordinary ice cube. What schoolboy does 
not know that stirring story — how Galileo stepped up to his 
telescope, how he looked heavenward, how his face filled with 
wonder, how he stepped back and whispered the words heard 
round the world: “L’etat, c’est moil”
Well sir, you can imagine what happened then! William 
Jennings Bryan snatched Nell Gwynne from the shadow of the 
guillotine at Oslo; Chancellor Bismarck brought in four gushers 
in a single afternoon; Hal Newhouser was signed by the 
Hanseatic League; Crete was declared off limits to Wellington’s 
entire army; and William Faulkner won the Davis Cup for his 
immortal Penrod and Sam.
But after a while things calmed down, and astronomers began 
the staggering task of naming all the heavenly bodies. First 
man to name a star was Sigafoos of Mt. Wilson, and the name 
he chose was Betelgeuse, after his wife Betelgeuse Sigafoos, 
prom queen at Michigan State College from 1919 to 1931.
Not to be outdone, Formfig of Yerkes Observatory named a 
whole constellation after his wife, Big Dipper Formfig, the 
famed dirt track racer. This started the custom of astronomers 
naming constellations after,their wives — Capricorn, Cygni, 
Orion, Ursa Major, Canis Major, and so forth. (The Major girls, 
Ursa and Canis, both married astronomers, though Canis subse­
quently ran off with a drydock broker named Thwaite Daphnis.)
After naming all the heavenly bodies, the astronomers had a 
good long rest. Then, refreshed and brown as berries, they 
undertook the gigantic project of charting the heavens. Space is 
so vast that it is measured in units called “light-years.” These 
are different from ordinary years in that they weigh a good 
deal less. This, of course, is only relative, since space is curved. 
As Einstein laughingly said, “E=:mc2.”
Well, I guess that covers astronomy pretty thoroughly. But 
before we leave this fascinating topic, let us answer one final 
question: Is there life on other planets?
The answer is a flat, unequivocal no. Recent spectroscopic 
studies have proved beyond a doubt that the atmosphere of the 
other planets is far too harsh to permit the culture of the delicate 
vintage tobaccos that go into Philip Morris Cigarettes . . . And 
who can live without Philip Morris?©Max Shulnian, 195a
This heavenly column—like the author & more earthy ones is brought 
to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS cigarettes-who feel you’ll 
find real enjoyment in their product.
_________________• i-V*') U
K li si
EASY LIVIN'? v-''
IT'S A PICNIC IN A FINE ARROW MERE-LAN
When relaxing time rolls around, the most comfortable shirt 
you can own i9 an Arrow Mere-lan. Mere-lan is cotton at its 
finest, but looks and feels like cashmere. You know the minute 
you slip on an Arrow Mere-lan ... here is the most luxurious, 
smoothest feeling shirt in the world.
Mere-lan is available in long or short sleeves, in muted cash­
mere tones, original patterns, and solid colors.
Wear your Mere-lan with a pair of Arrow walking shorts, and 
you own the perfect combo for the casual life.
Your campus dealer has Arrow M»re-lan now; priced from 
$3.50. Arrow slacks, from $5.00.
ARROW
CASUAL WEAR
SHIRTS & TIES 
UNDERWEAR 
HANDKERCHIEFS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Pa*e 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 19, 1955
Editorial—
Student UnionLITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibtar
Quite some time ago, almost a year in 
fact, we began to hear vague but enthusiastic 
plans for great expansion, remodeling, and 
reshuffling of the present physical facilities 
of our campus. Although nothing really de­
finite ever showed up, or if it did it was for­
gotten, at the time talk was heard about a 
student union. This was said to be of ut­
most importance and to be considered in the 
near future.
Well, according to the president’s an­
nual report, (see page one) “we are now in 
the midst of defining our needs in plant and 
finances.” If this be, then we must be farther 
than ever from that proposed union. Realiz­
ing that investigations of this magnitude un­
dertaken by big committees usually require 
a maximum amount of time to complete, a 
student union for Carnegie Tech seems about 
as remote as a two week Spring Carnival.
Meanwhile time passes, as it has a habit 
of doing, and the need for some centralized 
building to house student activities and a 
cafeteria is ever increasing. Beloved, time­
worn Carnegie Union partially performs that 
function, but every group from Student 
Council and the seven sororities to the multi- 
ferous honoraries and fraternity mothers’ 
clubs clamors for its use.
The Union is a nice old home, but wasn’t designed for 
the purpose it now has. It is a well known fact that only 
one major activity can be held there at a time, unless the 
second one can be confined to a upstairs room. Also, it doesn’t 
make for the best inter-group relations when a parade of 
assorted, casually dressed people tramp periodically through 
a Newman Club lecture or a sorority mothers’ tea, enroute 
to some office in the basement or attic.
As for the need for a new cafeteria, that remodeled 
temporary airplane hangar named for a Scottish castle which 
now houses the campus food service is not only ugly, but 
too small. Many people can be found studying there as 
well as playing bridge and occasionally reading the Tartan, 
and with all this congestion it is often impossible to find a 
seat, especially at noon and in mid-afternoon. But, the truth 
is, Tech’s great population of commuters has nowhere else 
to spend their between-class hours.
Perhaps the greatest need is for a place to spend an oc­
casional half-hour in the evenings. The men’s and women’s 
dorms have their own recreational rooms but there is no 
halfway meeting place. Then for snacks, for many people 
it is a matter of lower Forbes Street, Woodlawn Pharmacy, 
or starvation. A student union could provide some recrea­
tional facilities and an evening snack bar.
Student Council distributed a questionnaire on a union 
three months ago, and the results (Tartan, February 8) in­
dicated that there is a great deal of student interest in this 
matter. Now it seems we have to convince the administra­
tion that we need it now, not six or eight years hence.
At any rate, three things are apparent: the present facili­
ties are inadequate, a new student union is needed, and the 
students want it as soon as possible. We hope some defin­
ite, concrete proposal will soon be forthcoming from the 
administration.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9430, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-chief .................... Robert Russell
Business Manager ................................... .......... .................. Vic Shiry
New» Editor ........................................................................................................................ Marjo King
Sports Editor  ..................  Tom Wright
Copy Editor ........................................................... ................. ......................... Richard Fox
Features Editor .............................................................................................. Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business Manager—Marty Ostroff. Advertising Manager—Bob Sorkin. 
Circulation Manager—Harley Bembach. Repftrters—Evelyn Alessio, Marilyn Casey, 
Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Joan tie Babbitt. Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, 
Carolou Fidder, Jane Moore, Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Dolores Chidester, Kay 
Melcnyzer. Sports Staff—James Lacey. Dick Swaney. Photographer»—Barbara Toia, 
John Russell, Don Falk. Bill Sailing. Art Staff—Carolyn Copp, Don Carter, Robert 
CoAnell. Copy S'aff—Ed Rogers, Jack Recker Carol Millson. Features Staff—Joe 
Szev. c, Marshall Pheil. Typist»—Anne Barnes Mary Langdon. Copy Runner«— 
Ho i Kohl. Ji Plugge. Circulation Staff—Alan Hodel, Ira Levine. Advertising 
Staff—Herbert Kriendler, Edwerd Rosenblum
Entered as second class matter on October 4. 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pitt burgh, Pa. under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates 
of postsro provided for in the act of February 28, 1S25
Me- bar of the Associated College Press.
I* pre cnted for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10 
per year.
Over The 
Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
And they’re off and running. The fraternities 
are out enmasse in an effort to pick the best runners 
for their buggy, the sororities are running through 
the numbers for the queen campaign coming up, 
and Scotch ’n Soda is running along frantically in 
a hope of getting better revues than “Oklahoma.” 
Plans are being laid for the traditional competition 
between the groups at Carnival, and fraternities 
are constructing planks in their back yards to get 
ready for the joust. All we need now is for the 
Dean of Men and the Dean of Women to get up at 
five in the morning to practice their egg throwing 
and we’ll have everyone beating their brains out 
early.
* * *
We have arrived at that time of year which is 
the most confusing. Formals are being held by 
practically every organization on campus and the 
question always arises, Shall you wear a white 
dinner jacket and rush the season or shall you go 
along with “Esquire.” and continue to wear the hot 
tux? Or should you stay home because you really 
can’t afford the time or the money. I prefer the 
cocktail party-dinner-dance type of formal. At this 
kind of affair the girl that bought the new formal 
feels a little more justified An the spending of her 
father’s money and the guy doesn’t feel his ten 
bucks for the rented tux was wasted.
* * *
The surprise of the year has been the number of 
girls who received engagement rings the past few 
weeks, especially over Easter vacation. What is it 
about the springtime that makes guys lose their 
heads I’ve always wondered if it’s the girl or the 
time of year. Anyhow, I’ll bet a lot of guys would 
be a little more careful before taking this step if 
they knew that matrimony experts claim that 95% 
of quarrels in marriage are started by the woman. 
Does this prove the rule that “true love never runs 
smooth ”4t He *
Little Quickies . . . Congratulations to Don 
Hrosik for being elected president of the Varsity C 
Club . . . Congratulations to Johnny Muller for 
setting a new record in the quarter mile. Johnny’s 
record time of 50.8 seconds was set on Saturday 
against Slippery Rock . . . Quote of the week: Some 
women are like blotters. They soak up everything 
but get it all backwards . . . Experience is the mis­
takes we like to remember . . . General consensus 
of opinion has it that the last issue of the Scot was 
pretty good . . . Quetsion: Who is liked better on 
the Tech campus. Jackie Gleason or George Gobel? 
I prefer Gleason. His show is more colossal and he, 
as a comedian, is far more versatile than Brother 
George. But, to each his own.
* * *
And finally a bit of rhyme.
I had a few well chosen words 
With which to say goodbye,
But I never got to use them «
For she hit me in the eye.
“Parting is such sweet sorrow,”
I guess she never heard,
She kicked me down the stairs
WRCT
SCHEDULE
Tuesday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World andCampus News
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 7:15 p.m.—Adventures in Research 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Kiltie Band 
Concert 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Wednesday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—U. S. Navy Band 
7:30 p.m.—Encore 8:00 p.m.—Greek Sing 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Thursday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Guest Star 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Ye Old Curiosity 
Shoppe 9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 "p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Friday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
•Y
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Serenade in Blue 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Musical World 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—TGIF Club 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Saturday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
3:00 p.m.—Matinee 
6:00 p.m.—670 Club 
7:00 p.m.—News 7:15 p.m.—670 Club 
9:00 p.m.—Reverie 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Reverie 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Sunday
1:45 p.m.—Sign On, News 
2:00 p.m.—Show Time 
3:00 p.m.—Sunday Pops 
Concert 
5:30 p.m.—Proudly We Hafl 
6:00 p.m.—News 
6:05 p.m.—Album of Favorites 
7:00 p.m.—Penthouse
* Serenade jV
8:00 p.m.—Freelance 
8:30 p.m.—Concert Hall 11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Monday
7:30 a.m.;—Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World andCampus News 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Interlude 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation »I 8:00 p.m.—211 Club 
8:30 p.m.—Masterworks from 
France 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
The Kitchen 
Sink *
When I was little, people used to ask me what 
I wanted to be when I grew up. Being a minor 
joker in those days, I would generally pop up 
with some potentially filthy remark that would 
make my parents wince and their friends think 
me nuts. My answer to the question is no longer 
cute; and furthermore, it is no longer just poten­
tially dirty. I like to say dirty words. Not just 
the old-fashioned four letter ones either ... I 
know some real dooseys that have more letters .« 
than that. You’ve just got to be alert and listen " 
for them. That’s the way you learn. All my price­
less secrets can be found in a book I’ve just finished 
writing: “Dirty Words for All Occasions.” So don’t 
hang back. Be the life of any party, dorm con­
clave, or fraternal function. Have just the right 
comment to make. You too can be witty. No need 
to watch others get the limelight, be a slob in 
your own right!
Don’t put it off! Send for this daring, amazing, 
unexpurgated book right now! Get it before The 
Scot steals it, or the dean’s office bans it. And while 
you’re at it, you’ll naturally want my latest: “How 
ti Influence Friends and Make People.” Trot right 
down to the drugstore today and tear the top off 
of our friendly college druggist. Send it, along with 
a stamped, self-addressed Cadillac convertible, to: 
Dirt, thot is D-f-R-T, care of Ernest Hemmingway, 
5036 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh.
With a dash—U-----M—
(It’s un-American, this censoring)
-----------------------KK— d
Letter—Natrat
Editor; the Tartan:
I would like to take this opportunity to express 
my appreciation for the Natrat last week. I found 
the humor to be much better than I expected. The 
staff is to be congratulated.
In my opinion the Natrat was much better than 
the reecnt issue of the Scot. The Scot was supposed 
to contain the best of college humor taken out of 
other humor magazines. If this is the case then 
something is lacking in college humor across the 
country. Only one of the articles was the least bit 
funny and the jokes were terrible. I hope the 
Spring Carnival issue is better.
Signed, - 
Laughing Sam
Before I spoke a word. 
Breaking up a love affair 
Is such an arduous chore 
It isn’t safe to love a girl 
Taller than five foot four

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 19, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 9
^SfARLtSS^OSDICK
Red Hot Thinclads Cool Off Rockets
Muller Sets Bowl 
Record In 440 Yd.; 
Leads In Scoring
By Dick Swaney
Once again the Tartan Thin­
clads proved themselves the team 
to beat in district track circles, 
as they downed a very strong 
Slippery Rock outfit, last years 
Tri-State champs, 71%-59%, and 
extended their winning streak to 
29 straight dual meets and 25 
inter-collegiate meets, a skein that 
is now in its fifth season.
Coach Bob Carman’s charges 
collected seven out of nine firsts 
in running events and enough sec­
onds and thirds in all events to 
overshadow the Rocket’s field tri­
umphs.
John Muller, the speedy quarter 
miler from Princeton, N. J., and 
Mai Gillies, the “Youngstown 
flash,” paced the team, as Muller 
led in individual scoring for the 
afternoon with 14 % points. “Rock” 
won the 440 and in so doing set 
a new mark of 50.8 seconds, bet­
tering the mark set by Bill Wills 
in 1953, then went on to win the 
high hurdles, place second in the 
880 and come from behind on the 
last lap of the relay to win.
The mile and half mile events 
went to Mai Gillies, who also ran 
third leg on the relay squad. 
“Dad” paced the 880 with a dandy 
2:00.6, and ran away from the 
opposition in the mile as he paced 
the first half with a 2:08, and thus 
served notice to Homer Weaver to 
be at his best when the Geneva 
Covenanters meet here on April
Tech Linkmen 
On en Season 
With Prexies
The Tax-tan golf team opens the 
season at Alcoma Golf Club Tues­
day, April 19. when they face a 
good W & J team which has al­
ready won its first match against 
Duquesne.
Qualifying rounds for positions 
on the team were held last week 
at Alcoma. The first five men will 
be the same as last year, Cipro, 
Schorr, Fedor, Wilton, and Ekiss, 
with a newcomer, freshman Marty 
Fertal, taking over the sixth spot 
on the team. Marty did well in the 
qualifying rounds and should be 
a real asset to the veteran team.
Coach Rogers will present a 
stronger and more experienced 
team to the opposition this year 
and they should do well in Tri- 
State competition.
The team will play again on 
Friday at West Virginia on the 
first match away from the home 
course.
Tech Netters 
Open Season 
At Ducfiiesne
This coming Friday, April 22, 
the Plaid netters will open their 
season against Duquesne and try 
to continue their tennis reign in 
the city, which they have held for 
three years. Last year Tech had a 
win streak of 22 straight broken 
by Penn State, and then went on 
to win the remaining four games 
on the schedule and the city title.
Despite the heavy losses in man­
power Coach Moses is very optim­
istic about this year’s team, espe­
cially in light of some very fine 
varsity prospects that have come 
out, most of whom are freshmen. 
Most impressive thus far in their 
attempt to make the varsity have 
been Larry Dussair, Alex Federo- 
wicz, Charley Schaul, and Karl 
Yu.
The starting lineup for Friday’s 
matches would appear to be Miller, 
Glaser, Rugheimer, Rowley, and 
Wickham, with Miller and Glaser 
probably teaming up for doubles, 
a team which consistently won in 
the 1952 season, when both were
John Muller breaking the tape on the last leg of the relay.
cus and placed second in the shot 
to lead the field crew.
The Bryant twins again came 
in one two in the two mile grind 
that found both of the Monaca 
lads lapping several of their op­
ponents. Bill Bryant also nailed 
down a second in the mile, finish­
ing in a sprint duel with Slippery 
Rock’s Mandel.
A newcomer to the team, Bill 
Heinecke, gave a good account of
himself in the 440 and the relayi 
as he raced neck and neck with 
Austin of the Rockets losing at 
the wire.
TRACK EVENTS
Mile Run— 1-Gillies (CT); 2-W. Bry­
ant (CT); 3-Mandell (SR). Time 4:32.7.
440-Yard Dash—1-Muller (CT); 2-Aus- 
tin (SR); 3-Heinecke (CT). Time—:50.8.
100-Yard Dash—1-Smith (CT); 2-Bax- 
ter (SR); 3-Fleming (SR). Time—:10.3.
120-Yard High Hurdles—1-Muller (CT);
2-Stofen (CT); 3-Block < SR). Time :17.
Half-Mile Run—1-Gillies (CT); 2-Mil­
ler (CT); 3-Austin (SR). Time—2:00.6.
[Continued on page 6]
freshmen. The other doubles team 
will probably consist of Rug- 
heimei and Rowley.
SMART MOTHERS k 
GROOM HAIR AND 
REMOVE LOOSE 
DANDRUFF WITH f 
WILDROOT CREAM- 
OIL, CHARLIE.f.r-
I BUT U 
I THAT'D J 
? BE V
B-BUT I'M WAITIN' L 
FER ME OLD MUDDER.?
-BUT IT KILLS 
ME TO SEE 
MESSY HAIR— 
AND i&Ho£>oERr) t 
LOOSE 
DANDRUFF.? j
I WILL HAVE TO 
ARREST YOU 
FOR ILLEGAL. 
RARKING.'T’
PARDON ME, 
MADAM — I 
USUALLY HATE
- TO SHOOT 
j ANYONE'S ¡ 
j MOTH ER.r-;
ILLEGAL- 
HIS NAME'S SH ERWIN"
Slippery Rock proved to be the 
powerful field event machine that 
had been expected. Taking firsts 
in every field event but the dis­
cus, the Rockets compiled 36% 
points in the field to make up a 
majority of their scoring. Big gun 
for SR was Harry Spak, last 
year’s Tri-State pole vault champ. 
He won his specialty and also 
coped the javelin. For Tech, Ward 
Jones, vho doubles as a lead off 
man on the relay, won the dis­
CWLY CREAM-OIL Gf?OOM5 AND 
CONDITIONS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY
And Pop comes through with 
some spending green.. •
M-m-man, 
that's PURE
When you're flat broke 
and feeling kind of meanPLEASURE!
For more pure pleasure... SMOKE GAJVIELS f
No other cigarette is so rich-tasting
yet so mild!
P.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive 
blend of costly tobaccos — one of the reasons why Camels are America's most popular cigarette!
B. J. Beynold» Tobacco Co.. Wlniton-Salcia, N. 0»

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 19, 1955
Tech Finishes 2nd 
Behind Pitt in TSVT
Carnegie Tech’s volleyball team, for the third time in as many 
years, took second place in the Tri-State tournament behind Pitt. 
The round-robin affair was played at Tech this year with a number 
of teams not showing up for play.
Only four teams took part: In-^---------------------------------------------------
diana, Slippery Rock, Tech and
Pitt. The Tartan team consisted 
of Rugheimer, Rees, Licht,* Fahle, 
Coffen, and Oburg.
In the first round playeo. in the 
morning, Pitt downed Indiana 
15-3 and 15-1, and then turned 
around and took the measure of 
the Tartans 15-8 and 15-3, while 
the Tartans laced the teachers 15- 
4 and 15-8. In the second round 
Tech fared no better as they lost
IM All-Star Hoop 
Team Chosen; MV 
To Mike Pascarella
The all school intramural bas­
ketball team for the 1954-55 sea­
son was selected by the combined 
votes of the IM Board and Man­
agers’ Club and the sports staff of 
tV Pitt by”score^^ri5-13'and '¿5- ithe Tartan, and was completely 
11 after having beaten Indiana |dominated by the Rockets and
twice moro 15-2 and 15-7.
The third round, which was 
played in the afternoon, found 
Slippery Rock replacing Indiana, 
with the result that both Tech and 
Pitt beat the Rockets. On the basis 
of games won Pitt retained the 
Tri-State title.
Standings:
W
Pitt...........................,10
Tech......................... 6
Slippery Rock .... 2
Indiana ............ 0
Due to lack of interest on the 
part of the Tech students the trip 
to Binghamton will be canceled 
even though Tech is the defend­
ing Eastern champions. This tour­
nament generally attracts the best 
volleyball teams in the east, and 
has been won by Tech three out 
of four years; yet there was not 
enough interest by Tech students 
to get enough men for one com­
plete squad which would consist 
of two teams of six men.
Kappa Sigs, who placed four men 
and three mem respectively on the 
first ten. Two points were given 
for a first team vote and one for a 
second team vote. On that basis 
Mike Pascarella received the most 
points and was named the out­
standing player for the 1954-55 
campaign.
All School Basketball Team 
First Team 
Heep—^Rockets 
Pascarella—KS 
Hyams—KS 
Branscombe—DU 
Bracken—KS
Second Team 
Hrosik—Rockets 
Norman—DU 
Hoey—Rockets 
Kolar—Rockets 
Daniels—ATO
Alpha Phi Omega, a national 
service fraternity, assembles col­
lege men in the fellowship of the 
Scout Oath and Law.
Water Safety
Please pick up Seniors and 
Instructors cards and patches 
in Room 104 in the gym. The 
canoe trip will be on May 1 
as planned.
MANAGEMENT JOBS!
If you’re graduating this year 
you may qualify for this unusual offer
The opportunity—To join a few men in a training program 
which will prepare you for a plaice in management with a 
growing organization that must maintain the highest type 
of intelligent administration. It is an opportunity in man­
agement operations in the Home Office rather than sales 
or sales management.
The job—If you are selected to join us, you will spend your 
first eight months in comprehensive training designed to 
qualify you as a Company management consultant. You 
will be trained in procedure analysis, production planning, 
management surveys, quality control, cost control, con­
ference leadership, public relations, report writing, inter­
viewing technique, and life insurance principles.
The future—Immediately following completion of training 
you will be assigned to consulting work within our Home 
Office organization. There you will be expected to develop 
ideas for the improvement of the day-to-day operation of 
the Company.
The salary—The starting salary compares favorably with 
those of other organizations. In addition, salaries are re­
viewed every six months, even while in training. We also 
maintain a well-rounded insurance and retirement pro­
gram and other benefits for our personnel and their 
dependents.
The requirements—Personality, appearance, creative ability 
and initiative are essential qualities. Evidence of leadership 
as demonstrated in scholastic and extra-curricular activities 
is considered important in the selection of qualified men. 
Preference is given to those who hold a graduate degree in 
industrial engineering or business administration.
If the facts in this brief description interest you, write 
directly to Management Education, Coordination Divi­
sion, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
1 Modison Avenue New York 10, N, Y.
T rack—
[Continued from page 5]
220-Yard Run—1-Baxter (SR); 2-Smith 
(CT); 3-Fleming (SRI .Time— :23.4. 
120-Yard Low Hurdles—1-Muno (SR);
2-Mihm (CT); 3-Fair (SR). Time—:14. 
Two-Mile Run—1-L. Bryant (CT); 2-W.
Bryant (CT); 3-Mandell (SR). Time- 11 .10.6. - 
Four-Fifths-Mile Relay—Won by Car­
negie Tech (Jones, Heineke, Gillies, Mul­ler). Time—2:43.2.
FIELD EVENTS 
Pole Vault—1-Spak (SR); 2-Smilek 
(CT); 3-Logue (SR). Height—11'2".
High Jump—1-Boring (SR); 2-Tie 
among Palumbo (SR), Frank (CT), Szewc (CT). Height—5' 8".
Shot Put—1-Wall (SR); 2-Jones (CT);3-Herald (SR). Distance—43' 2 
Javelin—1-Spak (SR); 2-Fetter (CT);
3-Quinn (SR). Distance—158' 6".
Discus—1-Jones (CT); 2-Palumbo (SR)* 
3-Blose (SR). Distance— 114' 7". #
Broad Jump-—1-Boring (SR); 2-Pa-lumbo < SR) ; 20’ 7%"3-Smith (CT). Distance
Schedule
Tennis
Apr. 22—Duquesne...............Away
Apr. 25—Grove City .Home
Apr. 30—W&J .............. .Home
May 2—Duquesne...............Home
May 4—Westminster ...........Away
May 10—West Virginia.........Home
May 13—Penn State..............Away
May 14—Juniata ....................Away
May 17—Geneva ....................Away
May 21—Pitt ..........................Home
Golf
Apr. 19—W&J ........................Home
Apr. 22—West Virginia.........Away
Apr. 26—Grove City ............Home
Apr. 29—W&J .................f ..Away
! C « 38 0-8« sSS S?5 ¦ ’¦ ' :: •* '}¦ * ÿ * S> «ÎS *¦ » *«-s? i ® '-S'." Ai. <¥'» ** *. si? * «*»*«•«»«s - v.... „.„.I_____________„_____~ »•«
«SW»' i•V • '• ' ' '
The duo of A1 Glaser and Jim Miller, who haven’t played to« 
gether since 1952, may be a winning combination.
May 3—Geneva ..................Home
May 10—Duquesne .............Home
May 12—Invitational Tournament 
at Meadville
May 13—Westminster ........Home
May 16—Grove City............Away
May 20—Pitt .........................Away
Track
Apr. 23—Case ............... Away
Apr. 26—Geneva..................Home
Apr. 30—Grove City ..........Away
May 3—W&J ....................Home
May 10—Westminster .... .Away 
May 14—Tri-State Meet at Mead­
ville
Entries!
Entries will be due for 
horseshoes and softball Wed­
nesday, April 20, at 4:30 p.m. 
The intramural track meet 
will take place Wednesday, 
-April 20, with the prelimin­
aries having been run on 
Monday. The five best times 
in each event on Monday will 
compete on Wednesday. The 
softball competition will begin 
Monday April 25.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE—APRIL 19
A Campus-to-Career Case History
He keeps up with
440,000 customers
“I used to think accountants jvore green 
eye shades and sat on high stools,” John 
Merrick will tell you. “That’s before I 
started working in a modern accounting 
department.
“I trained for about a year and a half 
in different phases of telephone ac­
counting. Then I was placed in charge 
of the section which maintains tele­
phone service records. I have more 
than 60 people in my group with four 
supervisors reporting to me. Our job 
is to keep a running record of monthly 
charges for 14-0 exchanges in Central
Massachusetts. That comes to 440,000 
different customers.
“Customers expect their bills on time 
and they want their charges to be right. 
So on my job my primary concern is to 
maintain constant and rapid production 
and at the same time keep our work ac­
curate and reliable. One of the best ways 
to do this is to be sure that ‘the right 
person is on the right job at the right 
time,’ an old cliche. But T found it works 
and it gives me a chance to use my 
Sociology training since it means han­
dling all sorts of personnel situations.”
John finished Bates College in 1952 with a degree in Sociology, 
and started with the New England Telephone and Telegraph 
Company. His work is typical of many assignments in the 
Bell telephone companies. The opportunities open for col­
lege graduates with other operating companies of the Bell 
Telephone System are many and varied — also with Bell 
Telephone Laboratories, Western Electric and Sandia 
Corporation. Your Placement Officer has full details.
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 19, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
"I've got HIM...and 
IfM's got everything!
^CABIEGltJ ./)
* \\ if PM ill
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ......................................................................................... Dolores Neff
Circulation Editor ....................................................................... jim Soltis
Reporters..............Kathy Galligan, Frank Polma, John Van Holt, Jr.
Editorial—
Why?
With the spring semester slowly 
but surely coming to a close, we 
find that the active social life of 
evening students has been far be­
low our expectations.
The parties responsible for this 
situation of laxity and complete 
indifference are deserving of noth­
ing more than pity. The meagre 
number of students who feel that 
a program of social activities is 
an asset to a well rounded and 
complete college education are re­
warded by nothing but dismay for 
their earnest efforts.
How does such a situation de­
velop and become malignant? 
Here are a few of the many pre­
vailing conditions: The evening
student ^n most instances is en­
gaged in a full time vocation by 
day and a schedule of evening 
classes that leaves little time for 
leisure. This combination of a de­
manding schedule of work and 
school takes its toll of mind and 
bo<±£. The married students, espe- 
ciaity those with family respon­
sibilities, have just cause to feel 
that their family is deserving of 
prime consideration of whatever 
leisure time that can be availed.
If these situations were true in 
the majority of the cases, one can 
readily understand why a some­
what dormant social life exists. 
Such, however, is not the case. In 
order to please the majority of 
student enrollment, Student Coun­
cil, with the aid and support of 
the student social organizations 
who firmly believed and worked 
towaius what they believed to be 
a stimulating schedule of social 
activities, decided that activities 
arranged for Friday .and Saturday 
nights would be less conflicting 
¦with class schedules. Sad to re­
late, even this propitious bit of 
timing failed to impress more than 
a handful of students.
If social activities were abbre­
viated or curtailed due to the lack 
of justifiable attendance, protesta­
tions of injustice and discrimina­
tion would be shouted from the 
roof tops. Yet, those students who 
would shout loudest and longest 
are conspicuous by their absence 
at these effairs, and their un-co-* 
operative attitude toward promo­
tion and aiding the aims of such 
programs denotes a childish self­
ishness that would do justice to 
a spoiled baby.
The time for indiindual and per­
sonal re-appraisal is better late 
than never. Procrastination can 
become habit forming. Too long 
has the brunt of planning and op­
erating social activities been car­
ried by a sincere few for the bene­
fit of an indifferent many.
The $64 question! What are 
YOU doing to further the goals of 
social activities?
The drama department’s cos­
tume collection includes a number 
of costumes worn by Richard 
Mansfield in his best known roles, 
among them “Cyrano,” “Beau 
Brummel,” and “Monsier* Beau- 
caire.”
Newman Orphans 
Party Is Planned
Plans for the Newman Club 
orphan’s party are moving right 
along. The party, scheduled for 
Sunday, April 24, 1955, from 7:00 
to 9:00 p.m. at the Carnegie Un­
ion, hosts 30 little boys and girls 
from the St. Paul’s Orphanage. 
Kathy Galligan, who is chairman 
for this party, has arranged with 
Miss Diane Dimon to present a 
puppet show, “Jack and the 
Beanstalk.”
After the show, there will be 
games and gifts for all the chil­
dren. To bring the party to a 
happy finale, Elvira Loreski, re­
freshment chairman, has planned 
to serve refreshments about a cir­
cus theme.
Super
Snooper
On Sunday, April 3, the Eve­
ning Student Council held their 
regular meeting at the Carnegie 
Union. Plans were formulated for 
a forthcoming social. Since many 
students have asked to have an­
other Monte Carlo party, it has 
been decided to hold a combined 
Monte Carlo and dance on Sat­
urday, May 21, at Thistle Hall. 
Admission will be $.75 per per­
son. Emily Muhic is to be in 
charge of the decorations while 
Matt Bertovich, Jim Soltis and 
Ed Daly are in charge of the mis­
cellaneous equipment.
Remember the date, May 21, 
1955 at Thistle Hall. Come oh out 
and enjoy yourself.
“People who fly into a rage 
always make a bad landing.” 
With spring in the air and this 
semester fast drawing to a close, 
the election of officers is the item 
of prime importance among the 
various evening school organiza­
tions. Your Student Council offi­
cers for next year are: 
president, Matt Bertovich; vice 
president, Jim Soltis; recording 
secretary, Mary Alice Peterson, 
treasurer, Ed Daly; handbook 
editor, Ralph Czernik; Plaid Edi­
tor, Dolores Neff; social chair­
man, Vince Golobic with Ray 
Kilmas as assistant.
“A man is what he thinks 
about all day long.”
The evening school Newman 
Club roster for the coming year 
includes: president, John Van
Holt, Jr.; vice president and so­
cial chairman, Dolores Neff; re­
cording secretary, Chuck Labee; 
corresponding secretary, Elvira 
Loreski; treasurer, Ed Daly; his­
torian. Emily Muhic, Catholic 
action chairman, Theresa Defino; 
membership chairman, Ross 
Klingensmith; and the delegates 
to PIFSCO will be Kathleen Ken­
nedy and Joe Morgan.
“We cannot do what we 
cannot. But we can do what 
we can.”
The results of Phi Gamma Pi’s 
election will be made known at 
their annual banquet to be held 
on Saturday, May 28, 1955 at the 
Gateway Plaza.
"If we have not peace 
within ourselves, it is vain to
Iseek it from outward 
sources.”
On Saturday evening, April 
23, the Newman Club Federation 
is sponsoring a bowling party 
that promises to be one of the 
highlights of this semester’s so­
cial calendar. Now, all you 
bowling fans, gather round. 
Here’s the info—.It’s to be at the 
Strand Alleys on Forbes Street— 
Saturday, April 23, 195o—at 8:00 
p.m. Got it?? Now don’t forget.
“Let no two people call 
themselves friends until they 
have dared to be silent to­
gether”
Veterans
Requisitions by World War 
II Veterans for books, sup­
plies and equipment for the 
Spring Semester 1955 cannot 
be honored by the Bookstore 
after May 15, 1955.
rHii-Cih BtitHai O*., PMtabvrgfc 11, ft.
CAMPUS “STAND-OUTSReal Gone Gal
THIS IS IT! L&M’s Miracle Tip's the greatest—pure and
white. And it draws real e-a-s-y— lets all of L&M’s wonderful 
flavor come through to you!
No wonder campus after campus reports L&M stands out from 
ail the rest. It’s America's best filter tip cigarette.
VV OL..488 & Mvtts —No22N 3NC
Extremely High Discounts 
and Trade In Allowances
Arranged For Carnegie Tech
Students and 
Faculty Members
On New 1955 Ford Automobiles 
and Used Cars of Every Type
Contact Wally Donoghue
103 Welch Hall — Box 337 CIT
MU 3-0242

---------------------------------------------------

Page S—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 19» 1955
Report—
[Continued from page 1] 
development of Tech’s students. 
He stated that the development of 
a personal philosophy and a sense 
of values are of vital importance 
to the individual in laying the 
foundation for a useful and satis­
fying life.
Dr. Warner classified the efforts 
made by the school to develop 
these characteristics into three 
areas: the curriculum itself (the 
humanistic and social studies pro­
gram), organized campus activi­
ties (which unfortunately have not 
been very well coordinated with 
the first area. A committee was 
appointed some time ago to in­
vestigate this), and religion. Con­
siderable improvement has been 
achieved in this latter area through 
the creation of the Inter-faith 
Council and the appointment of 
Mr. Sam N. Gibson as coordinator 
of religious activities. But much 
remains to be done in all three 
areas.
Finances
Again Carnegie’s financial situ­
ation was such that total expenses 
were met and even slightly sur­
passed by income. Total expendi­
tures were approximately $3,538,- 
000 and income, after some pur- 
sestring tightening here and there, 
exceeded this figure by $6,700. 
This amount was credited to the 
Income Reserve Fund.
Alumni contributions for the 
past year exceeded those of the 
year before by some $20,000, and 
totaled $110,415, which is an all 
time high. President Warner stated 
“The importance of this generous 
help cannot be overemphasized, 
and the fact that it represents a 
tripling of the fund total only four 
years ago shows how alumni in­
terest is growing The administra­
tion deeply appreciates both the 
confidence in Carnegie demon­
strated by the graduates and the 
help they are giving.
The student financial aid pro­
gram is ever increasing, and “dur­
ing 1953-54, there were 433 awards 
made, the total value of which 
was $170,458.
PFA—
SAE—
[Continued from page I] 
coverage of the 1952 Le Mans 24- 
hour endurance race, and the 
other will be a presentation of 
rally or cross country driving com­
petition. Discussion and questions 
from the floor will be invited dur­
ing the meeting.
Many Unusual Cars For Display
Many of the cars that the SAE 
hopes to be able to display are un­
usual in that they are the only 
one or ones of just a few of their 
kind in the whole Western Penn­
sylvania district. On display will 
be both domestic and foreign pro­
ducts* including Nash Healy, Aus­
tin Healy, Chevrolet Corvette, 
MG-TF, Jaguar roadster, Sun­
beam Talbot, Allard, Mark V 
Jaguar Sedan, and the new and 
comparatively rare A. C. Ace.
Other cars whose owners have 
been contacted and have expressed 
interest or willingness to exhibit 
are Mercedes Benz 300SL, Fer­
rari Type 212, Porche Speedsters 
and Americas, and Ford Thunder - 
bird. SAE also hopes to be able 
to display several of the cars be­
ing prepared for use in the Cum­
berland Races scheduled for May 
15 of this year.
Tau Sigma Delta’s membership 
is called from students in painting 
and design and architecture who 
have outstanding scholastic 
records.
[Continued from page I] 
vide a broader support in Western 
Pennsylvania for creative ar­
tists.”
Art Lending: Service
The Plan was approved in 
principal last November by the 
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh 
and numerous individual artists. 
As soon as necessary alterations 
and details of operation are com­
pleted, any responsible citizen of 
the Metropolitan Pittsburgh area 
may visit the plan headquarters, 
select a work of art which interests 
him and take it to his home or 
office for a specified time. PFA 
headquarters will be open to the 
public.
PFA will also serve as a clear­
ing house or information center 
for art events of interest, it is de­
signed to supplement, not com­
pete with, the excellent work of
individuals, institutions and or­
ganizations which have been work­
ing in the interest of art.
Tht Carnegie Theater opened in 
1914 on Shakespeare’s birthday 
with a performance of his “The 
Two Gentlemen of Verona.”
Plank Jousting
All organizations and fra­
ternities who wish to enter 
a team in the plank jousting 
competition at Spring Carni­
val must have a representa­
tive at a meeting to be held 
11:30, April 26, in EH 1112.
At this time the official 
rules will be distributed and 
explained. The entrance fee 
this year is $7.00 which must 
be paid at this meeting. Make 
checks payable to the 1955 
Spring Carnival Committee.
Patronize Our Advertisers
• •
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Day Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS CLEANERS
See it— 
Drive it
WIN IT!
You’ll find a world of new fun at 
the wheel of a new Chevrolet—and 
the exciting discoveries you make 
can help you win one!
Driving a beautiful new Chevrolet is 
thrill enough any time. It is more 
rewarding right now, because the 
things you find out on your drive 
can help you win a 1955 Chevrolet 
plus a $1,000 U. S. Savings Bond!
For instance, your drive will show 
you what it means to sit in a luxuri­
ous Fisher Body, to see all four 
fenders from the driver’s seat, and 
to get a man’s-size look ahead 
through a Sweep-Sight windshield.
You’ll learn that Chevrolet puts 
new comfort in going! New Glide- 
Ride front suspension and Outrigger
rear springs. New ease to guiding 
the car with Ball-Race Steering. A 
new smoothness to all stops with 
Anti-Dive Braking Control. A con­
stant flow of outside air from the 
new High-Level ventilation system.
You’ll discover new fun whether 
you drive Chevrolet’s new 162-horse­
power “Turbo-Fire V8” or one of 
the two new 6’s. (All with the onl$ 
12-volt system in their field.) You 
can learn about the smoothness of 
three great transmissions—automatic 
Power glide, new Overdrive (extra­
cost options) and Synchro-Mesh.
Come in soon. Pick up your entry 
blank and get the complete details 
on Chevrolet’s big Miracle Mile Con­
test. It’s easy to enter and you’ll 
enjoy yourself. So drop in while 
there’g still plenty of time left to winl
COMPLETE and OFFICIAL figures show that again in 1954 —for the 19th straight year—
MORE PEOPLE BOUGHT CHEVROLETS THAN ANY OTHER CAR!
See Your Chevrolet Dealer
