¦ tartan
Beta wins IM Foot bai......................................page 17
An Interview with Penelope Gilliatt .... page 12
Writing a resume..........................................  . page 6
Unofficial f unnecessary...................................page 2
this week
October 28,1975 Volume 76 Number 8
Board Looks at Scale
The shortage of natural gas has forced Columbia Gas to request that the glassblowing furnaces in the 
basement of Dogherty Hall b* shutdown for the winter.Photo by Elliot Popowitz
Gas Cut Off Closes Shop
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Glassblowing at CMU will be replaced 
with glass staining for the months of Dec­
ember thru February in order to conserve 
^fuel. If the glass staining project is success­
ful, it will be continued into the semester. 
The change will keep one furnace on in­
stead of five. The furnace will be used for 
making plate glass for staining. Students 
will have an opportunity to leam how to 
make glass.
Jan Zandhuis, a glassblowing teacher, 
“hopes to incorporate glassblowing into 
glass staining” and vice versa. In this way, 
students could make works that have ele­
ments of both crafts. A demonstration of 
glassblowing by three artists is planned for 
before the shutdown.
Students in the degree program will not 
be affected by the temporary shutdown. 
Glass classes will continue as scheduled 
next semester, but will use the first part of 
the semester for staining.
Questions of scale and problems result­
ing from overcrowding were examined by 
the Board of Trustees at its annual October 
meeting held October 19 and 20. Also 
considered were: the present policy of 
locking up the Fine Arts building, the 
recognition of three new fraternities and 
the effectiveness of the present academic 
advising system.
Of greatest importance of the matters 
considered by the Board was the question 
of the proper size for the university. After 
a lengthy discussion of the issues involved, 
the Board requested that Dr. Cyert prepare 
reccomendations on scale to be 
presented at the October meeting of 1976.
Problems resulting from overcrowding 
were considered by the Board’s committee 
on Student Affairs. Doug Konopka, Presi­
dent of Student Government and student 
member of the committee commented that 
many of the trustees were surprised to hear 
of the overcrowding which has been 
presently occuring. “They were not aware 
of the tripling and quadrupling of rooms
which has been resorted to” Konopka 
said. Trustee John M. Depp requested that 
a study be made to determine if there was 
any relationship between overcrowding and 
the rate of attrition. Members of the com-
Senate Rejects Harder Elections
Student Senate met last Wednesday, 
and discussed issues relating to the upcom­
ing election and to the recent meeting of 
the Board of Trustees.
Gerry Digennaro made two motions, 
both of which were defeated, 1) to require 
that all senate candidates reply to the 
TARTAN Candidate Questionnaire and by 
to increase the number of votes needed to 
be elected to Senate.
The first motion called for changing the 
By-laws to require that all candidates for 
Senate be required to answer questions 
provided by the TARTAN. The argument 
in favor of this motion was that the po­
tential senators would thus be required to 
“think”, according to Senator Amy Mill- 
man, something that is not necessary in the 
present petition system. Willie Thompson 
replied to this argument by saying that it 
would be very easy to just write a simple 
statement that complied with the require­
ments but did not reveal any “platform” 
statement by the candidate.
Digennaro then offered the motion that 
candidates be required to receive a mini­
mum of 1% (or five votes , whichever is 
greater) of the total number of students in
their constituency in order to be elected. 
It was argued that although seats would 
remain vacant, the people present would be 
“hard workers, not free-loaders.” 'Willie 
Thompson argued that no matter what you 
try, it is not possible to increase the num­
ber of people voting in any given election 
and made an analogy with U.S. President­
ial Elections.
Other issues discussed included a report 
by Dean of Student Affairs Earl Swank, 
describing Vice President of Business 
Affairs Richard Van Horn’s recent com­
plaint about the vandalism occurring in the 
steam tunnels. This has included the re­
moval of a safety valve which could have 
resulted in the death of anyone who had 
been in the tunnel. Dean Swank reported 
that as of Friday the renovation of the 
steam tunnels would be completed. He 
further reported that Security has been 
instructed to bring any students found 
wandering around in them before the Dis­
ciplinary Action Committee which then 
would take appropriate actions. According 
to Swank this might include Social Pro­
bation.
President Doug Konopka reported on 
the actions of the Student Affairs Trustee 
Continued to page seven
mittee suggested the possibility of the uni­
versity getting into the apartment market 
to alleviate crowding in the dorms. Con­
cern was expressed that continuation of 
the trend of housing undergraduates in 
graduate housing would push graduate 
students off campus. Members of the 
committee also were concerned about the 
present policy of locking up the Fine Arts 
building.
The Student Affairs committee also 
formed a committee to study the request 
for recognition made by three fraternity 
groups. Because each of the groups is pre­
dominantly black, the committee 
must consider certain racial issues. Comment 
were made by committee members express­
ing concern that acceptance of the fraterni­
ties would be encouraging racial segration. 
But it was pointed out that bringing the 
groups into the Unified Fraternal Organiza­
tion would be a step towards greater int- 
gration of the fraternities.
Konopka reported to the committee 
that Student Government is undertaking
two important re-evaluations. The first of 
these is a study to be made of a possible 
reorganization of Student Senate. Konopka 
feels senate is presently too large to func­
tion efficiently. The second study concerns 
the value and need for WRCT, CMU’s 
student operated FM radio station. 
Konopka commented that “WRCT can 
not continue to exist in its present form. 
The high turnover in leadership forces the 
existence of the station to be on a day to 
day basis.”
Other decisions made by the Board 
include approval of the budget as submitt­
ed by Dr. Cyert and changing the name of 
the former Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College building1 to Margaret Monrison 
Carnegie Hall.
As of this meeting, Donald C. 
Burnham has taken over as the Chairman 
of the Board of Trustees. Burnham has
served as both the President and Chairman 
of the Board of the Westinghouse Electric 
Continued to page five
Cohen Moves to Warner Hall
by Claire Lee
Mr. Steve ¿alewski (Director of 
Campus Services) announced last week that 
Ms. Rita Cohen “has been appointed Assis­
tant to the General Manager of Campu- 
Services for Food Service Planning with 
emphasis on longer range issues-menus, 
contract forms, locations and styles of 
service.” She would be part of a Campus
Services Board’s study initiated to “de­
termine the most appropriate and bene­
ficial styles and range of food services to 
be offered to the University community.” 
Zalewski stated that “We will be asking a 
number of consultants and food service 
organizations to visit the campus and
24 Hour Lare Dropped
by Thomas Kendig
As of this semester, the health 
se.-vice is discontinuing the availability
* of a bR hour infirmary service located in 
Morewood Gardens. All students who need 
24 hour care will now recieve it in Shady- 
side hospital.
Previously there was a nurse avail­
able so that if someone was in the infir­
mary overnight, she could stay over. A 
study was done over the summer by Dean 
Swank’s office which showed 1) The per 
hour use expense of t^<* infirmary was
comparible to the expense ot a semi­
private hospital room. by In order to give 
people the necessary raises and purchase 
the additional medication needed, the 
ickCooo budget was no longer sufficient. 
To keep the same budget something had to 
be cut and the infirmary seemed to be the 
least 'critical part of health services. After 
mentioning this to Student Senate, the 
Faculty Council on Student Affairs and the 
Trustee Council on Student Affairs it was 
decided to drop the infirmary.
Continued to page five
Rita Cohen Photo by Gregg Lebovitz
prepare recommendations or proposals 
for us. In addition, we expect to talk 
with as many employees as possible to 
seek comments from students, staff and 
faculty.” He further stated “ Mr. John
Eichmuller would assume all operating 
responsibilities as acting Director of 
University Food Services during the 
evaluation period.”
Bill Dillon ( Business Manager 
for CMU) said that for the past 5 years 
(since CMU has taken over its own food 
operations instead of employing contract­
ors ) food services here has been “standing 
still” in most aspects. Many questions 
and criticisms have been voiced, but only 
small changes have been enacted. Now 
Zalewski and the Campus Services are 
determined to undertake an intensive 
study of the food situation and, during the 
evaluation period, to come up with some 
definite goals and changes for improving 
food service. As to the time-span of this 
study, Dillon personally thinks it will 
last from now till Christmas-hopefully 
having by that time reached some definite 
decisions concerning the spring semester. 
Students who are on the food committees 
of the Student Dorm Council and the 
Campus Services Board will participate 
actively in this study.

---------------------------------------------------

editor’s note
•fr.» * f
The Value of A Degree
In his address to the freshmen, Dr. Cyert list three rea­
sons for choosing to pursue a higher education: "One might 
be for economic reasons to improve your ability to make a 
living. Another might be because your family believes in 
higher education and your parents want you to be here. A 
third reason could be a great interest in some field of study 
you wish to pursue." The question^ though, is whether a stu­
dent actually considers the option of not going to college.
The Carnegie Commission on Higher Education recom­
mended that policies be developed which permit students 
to move in and out of postsecondary education at any time 
in their lives, shorten the time required to obtain degrees and 
create better alternatives for high school graduates not going 
to college. It is the responsibility of every student at this and 
other universities to seriously consider why they are at their 
respective institution and to assess whether this is the best 
route for them.
The Carnegie Commission stressed that instead of offer­
ing the traditional four year degree programs, Colleges and 
universities should evaluate the individual capabilities of each 
student and plan the degree program accordingly. The 
Commission further recommended that students be allowed 
free access in and out of a university. If a student wishes to 
“stopout” for a few years he should be allowed to do so and 
should be allowed to reenter whenever he wishes. Students 
should also be allowed to defer their acceptance to a school 
for a few years so that they can gain other kinds of exper­
ience.
Higher education is expensive as well as time consuming. 
Instead of most students pursuing the traditional educational 
patterns, they, together with educators and employers, 
should seriously consider the actual utility of a college 
degree.
It is currently estimated that over 25 percent of all 
college graduates will have to obtain jobs that have tradition­
ally been filled by persons with less than a college education. 
It is also well known, particularly on this campus, that 
certain degrees are not particularly marketable for immediate 
economic enrichment. Thus it is no longer true that a college 
degree is the gold&n key to prosperity and the outlook is even 
more dismal for the holders of graduate degrees.
Employers should reevaluate what is implied in a college 
degree. For example, it has been charged that a degree is 
simply certification of the owner’s persistance, not capabili­
ties. A good case can be made that postsecondary education 
does not contribute to later success except, of course, in 
areas where the student is taught specific skills. Industry 
must consider, then, what attributes they are expecting 
when they require a college degree. Why is a college graduate, 
for example, more qualified to sell copiers that an aggressive 
nondegree holder.
/ am not implying that higher education is worhtless but 
rather that certain assumptions about the value of such an ex­
perience are currently only myths. Of Dr. Cyert’s three 
reasons, only the final one can continue to be substantiated; 
college is still a place to pursue ideas. What a student must 
resolve is whether it is the ideas or the supposed economic se­
curity that has driven him to attend a university. There are 
too many students complaining about the “insignificance” of 
their education for one to conclude that they have indeed 
resolved this question. For some, college is just a further 
delay in the attainment of full adult stature.
Gary Singer, Editor
"Of the many things we have done to democracy in the 
past, the worst has been the indignity of taking it for
granted"
DON'T TAKE STUDENT SENATE FOR GRANTED"
The TARTAN invites all candidates for Student Senate to pick up 
the TARTAN questionaire at the Skibo Information Desk and to re­
turn it to the TARTAN, Skibo 50, NO LATER THAN NOVEMBER 
4th at TWELVE NOON.
Artf' • MrV 1 W'*?* iPU ¦¦ ¦ -J-,, __________y -
V seaua(h*i«l ttpeeefzaaid him jo onte school crfhiahe??^, ' U ’
letters
stafficial t sttecessary 
Editar:
I am a hard working CMs 
freshman, paying a tuition of 
$2900. Considering the time and 
expenses many other freshmen 
and I have given towards receiv­
ing the best education possible, I 
should like to think that our 
professors have the responsibil­
ity to give us a valid analysis of 
our efforts by issuing accurate 
mid-term grades, despite their 
being strictly unofficial reports.
However, two out of my five 
professors have decided to turn 
in a “blanket” grade for the en­
tire class. One such professor 
gave the impression that he sim­
ply couldn’t see putting in the 
time for averaging his class’ 
grades if the resulting mid-term 
grades were unofficial and 
unrecorded. However, that the 
grades are unofficial doesn’t nec­
essarily mean that they are val­
ueless. The other professor just
couldn’t afford the time to 
“accurately grade our mid-term 
examinations” (though most of 
his students certainly afforded 
ample time to prepare for the 
exam. ^
It is reasonable to question 
the issuing of mid-term reports 
if they do not perform the des­
ignated task of informing the 
students and their parents of 
their performance, as a misrepre­
sentation of one’s performance 
cannot be beneficial to the stu­
dent in any way.
Name Witheld 
Big Daddy Midati
Editar:
The letter appearing in the 
October 21st issue of the TAR­
TAN concerning the Fine Arts 
building lockup seemed to me 
to lack the proper respect for 
the serious art students who are 
paying $2,900 to be able to use 
the facilities at this school. If
Dean Midani had made safety 
the issue and protested that, 
even though we were willing to 
take the risks of working late 
at night in the FA building, the 
school would not take such re­
sponsibility, the regulations 
would make sense. But to imply 
that we, as responsible adults, 
may not schedule our own time, 
and we must use a certain eight 
hours for our “rest and ... 
sleep” is insulting. To have ‘Big 
Daddy’ telling me what is good 
for me, and implying that I am 
a “cliche” because I happen to 
have the urge to create between 
the hours of eleven and one, is 
really a little hard to take. Sure­
ly the University’s main concern 
is not whether we are all in our 
classes bright and early at 8:30 
am, but rather the quality of our 
work. I assumed that such pre­
occupation with conformity 
ended in High School. For so 
long, everyone has been com­
plaining about the general apa-
continued on page three
Volum« 76tartan
October 28. 1975Number 8
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor :Chartes Mitch 
Entertainment EditorMarfc Chiiraky 
Trapeze Editor:Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor:Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: EMiot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Jonathan Eiten, Tim Fabian, Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Gregg Lebo- 
vitz, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasic, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie —Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carne­
gie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; 14121 682-4557.
_____________________________________________________ALL RIGHTS RESERVED_____________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975-Page 3
letters
continued from page two
thetic condition of the students. 
And then when we do become 
concerned over an issue that 
affects us directly, and protest 
that condition, we are put down 
for it.
Claudia Fouse 
Painting Student
Plato Inaccessible
Editor:
I am writing this letter to 
alleviate a misunderstanding 
within myself and a good per­
centage of the students attend­
ing this university. In an earlier 
issue of the TARTAN a new 
computer system was brought 
to the attention of the residents 
of this university, namely Plato. 
In the article, I got the idea 
that the system was a wonderful 
educational tool, free to the 
campus community to use and 
to learn from. I’ve now found I 
was not the only one with 
this idea, in fact all the people 
I talked to had this same naive 
viewpoint. The system was of­
fered, for a while in its intended 
form, but abuses of the system 
closed it to the public. The 
only people who are allowed on 
the system (when the room is 
unlocked) are a privileged few 
with courses using the system. 
The abuses of the system were 
determined not by the physics 
department (who are in charge 
of it), not by a committee of 
physics faculty, but one lone 
professor who can do with the 
system as he pleases with no 
checks on his actions.
The system is a worthwhile 
project with many advantages 
to it, but improper management 
has rendered it useless to the 
campus community. The follow­
ing suggestions are being offered 
to help us regain this system:
1) Set up a Plato committee 
or board where all decisions will 
be made fairly and not on the 
whims of one man.
2) Establish a monitor system 
where someone looks in occa- 
sionaly to make sure students 
with priority have the terminals.
3) If the first two suggestions 
can not be realized, the facilities 
that were available in the begin­
ning be “turned on” during a 
non-prime time basis.
Again I say that the system is 
good but it becomes worthless 
if no one can use it. We, the 
people of CMU, would like to 
hear the other side of this story 
and would like to see some sort 
of action to “free” Plato.
Name Witheld 
Comments on Buggy Comment 
Editor:
As a member of the Student 
Senate Finance Committe, I 
would like to take exception to 
the comments stated in your 
October 21, 1975 issue entitled: 
Opinion : Buggy Comment. This
article was not signed by the 
writer. Additionally, the article 
contained many erroneous state­
ments and interpretations of 
events that occurred at the Fi­
nance Committee and at the 
Student Senate meeting. I make 
the following points in regard to 
the opinion:
1. It has been the policy of fi­
nance committee to require or­
ganizations to raise income for 
their events. The finance com­
mittee has enforced this policy 
by requiring organizations to 
raise dues, entry fees, or charge 
admisssion to events. In line 
with this policy the finance 
committee has raised the fees 
of W3VC radio club, Spring 
Carnival Midway, Cheerleaders, 
Gaming and Simulation Club, 
and Karate Club, to name only 
a few. These fee increases are 
in addition to requiring other 
organizations such as the Tartan, 
U.F.O., S.D.C., and A.B. to in­
crease their income contribu­
tions to programs which Senate 
has funded. Therefore, the abil­
ity and right of Finance Com­
mittee to require fees and spec­
ify income is firmly rooted in 
the history of Student Govern­
ment.
2. In regard to the number of 
freerolls to allow, the finance 
committee asked the chairperson 
to state the number held during 
1974-75. the chairperson stated 
that nine (9) freerolls were held. 
However, in fact only seven (7) 
were actually held. Thus the 
committee allowed die Buggy 
Committee to hold nine (9) 
freerolls which is more than last 
year or in any of the last six 
years.
3. In regard to the statement 
concerning the necessity of 
drivers to obtain as much prac­
tice as possible and to teach new 
drivers, the chairperson did not 
know how many new drivers 
there were this year, nor could 
the chairperson estimate how 
long the drivers needed to train 
safely. Thus it was the responsi­
bility of finance committee to 
determine if the benefits of 
additional freerolls was suffi­
cient to justify the increased 
costs. Our decision was that this 
was not the situation and nine 
(9) freerolls was sufficient to 
train any reasonably intelligent 
percon
4. In regard to the specific 
fee level set by the finance com­
mittee and allegedly forced on 
the Buggy chairperson and 
committee, it must be stated 
that the buggy chairperson was 
invited to present the commit­
tees view on the equity of the 
fee. The full Senate listened to 
the views of the chairperson of 
Buggy and the opposing view of 
the finance committee. Thi& ma­
jority of Senate upheld the view 
of the finance committee.
5. Finally, the Buggy com­
mittee does not have to accept 
the funds or fee schedules posted 
by the Student Senate. The 
group may elect to seek financial 
support from other organiza­
tions. However, if the committee 
choses to use the Senate funds, 
then it must charge the rates 
specified by the Senate. In addi­
tion, more freerolls may be held 
by the committee by merely 
assesing its members an addi­
tional fee.
As-a former chairperson of 
finance committee, I would like 
to say that the Finance Com­
mittee has the right to define 
levels of income and expendi­
tures for any organization which 
Senate funds. This is consistent 
with the committees obligation 
to maintain the financial stabil­
ity of Senate, and as with any 
governmental organization, the 
usage of our funds or facilities 
carries the requirements that 
your organization accepts our 
rules and restrictions on the 
funds.
Willie Roy Thompson
Concerts for Entertainment Not 
Profit
Editor:
Referring to the article in last 
week’s TARTAN about the 
money the Activities Board lost 
from their Homecoming Con­
cert, there is one point I would 
like to explain. When the Activi­
ties Board is deciding which 
•concert they will put on, they 
do not generally use all of the 
same criteria that other concert 
promoters use. These promoters 
decide to do a concert because 
they really feel they can make 
money on that show, assuming a 
certain ticket price (usually
between $5 and $9).
This is not the general policy 
of the Activities Board. The 
Concert Committee has received 
a certain allocation from Stu­
dent Senate, who is responsible 
for allocating the money collect­
ed from the Student Activities 
Fee. The Concert Committee 
ises this money to subsidize 
their concerts. For example, 
they may produce a concert 
which costs $4,000, charge 
$2.50 a ticket to CMU students, 
and only collect $2,000 in tic­
ket sales, even though the Ball­
room is packed. By subsidizing 
this concert $2,000, they have 
brought a quality group to CMU, 
kept ticket prices for CMU 
students much lower than they 
would ever find in any non-CMU 
show.
In the case of the Home­
coming Concert, this policy was 
also in effect. Had the concert 
sold very well, there was a 
chance that the show would 
break even, or even make mon­
ey. But there was also the pos­
sibility that the show would 
have to be subsidized, and this 
the Activities Board was willing 
to do to a certain point. There­
fore, the money that the 
Activities Board actually lost
above the amount they had 
planned to subsidize the concert, 
was only about $1,000, rather 
than $4,000 as reported in the 
TARTAN last week. Likewise, 
the reported $1,000 loss from 
the Tracy Nelson concert last 
spring reflects the amount of 
money the Activities Board 
subsidized that concert.
If there are people who dis­
agree with the present policy 
concerning concerts, I invite 
them to air their feelings. I’m 
sure all Student Organizations 
would welcome input from more 
of the students on* this campus. 
Many times it is very hard to 
come by.
Patty Aemi 
Director of the Activities Board
If you can't say anything nice ... 
Editor:
The following letter was directed 
to Mark Evan Chimsky, the 
Entertainment Editor
Have you ever seen a movie 
that you liked? Even just a lit­
tle? For as long as I have been 
reading your reviews I can’t re­
member you having anything 
even civil to say about any mov­
ie you have reviewed. 7
I imagine you took on the 
job of entertainment editor be­
cause you enjoy it. I would 
really hate to think that you 
were spending 2-3 hours every 
week in misery for the sake of 
the student body.
Didn’t your mother ever 
teach you that if your can’t 
say anything nice, sometimes it’s 
best not to say anything at all?
Please don’t take this letter 
the wrong way. It is meant as 
constructive criticism. Thanks 
for listening.
Amy Boyle
The TARTAN welcomes com­
ments from any member of the 
CMU community. Letters to the 
Editor are due by noon Wednes­
day during the week prior to 
publication.
"" *» ,v
EUROPE
Attettiat:
Saphamares atd Jutiars
Spend your 1976 spring semester 
studying in Austria, England, France, 
Germany or Spain.
The Institute of European Studies has 
programs that provide excellent 
preparation for:
careers with international organiza­
tions such as the UN and UNESCO 
jobs with multinationallirms 
law school, graduate work, and post­
graduate training 
teaching foreign languages
Study opportunities are available in 
a wide range of subjects in the hu­
manities and social sciences. Inde­
pendent study, special business 
programs, student teaching in Euro­
pean schools in France and Austria 
and courses in comparative law are 
available.
Language and other prerequisites 
vary. Curriculum in Vienna taught in 
English (with exception of German 
classes).
Financial aid is available.
See your study abroad advisor for 
full information. Write us today for 
detailed catalog, program descrip­
tion and application materials.
The Institute of European Studies 
Department C 
710 North Rush Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60611
The Itstitute af 
Kurapeat Studies 
Outstatditg Academic 
Pragrams it Eurape

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975
announcements
Mr. W. Richard Harold, Manager - Orga­
nization Development, U.S. Steel Corpora­
tion, will be the guest speaker at the dinner 
meeting of the Pittsburgh Chapter of 
ARMA (Association of Records Managers 
and Administrators) on Monday, Oct. 20,
1975, at 7:30 pm at the Hospitality 
Motor Inn. Rodi Road, Penn Hills.
Mr. Harold's topic will be "A Look at Our 
Behavior And How It Fits With Others”. 
The Chapter meets once each month (soc­
ial hour-cash bar: 5:30 pm; dinner: 6:30 
pm; meeting: 7:30 pm); for reservations, 
phone 563-3322— public welcome.
"Living with Nature" will be the next free
public lecture sponsored by the Semple 
Street Food Co-op. The speaker will in­
clude discussion of arthritis and ways of 
improving it through correct diet. Nick 
Jurich will present the talk on Tuesday, 
October 21, at 8:00 pm, at the Pitt Annex, 
located at the corner of Sennott and Bou­
quet Streets in Oakland.
Scotch 'N' Soda will hold auditions for its
spring musical, "Glitz", on Sunday, No­
vember 9, from 1-5 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo. Auditions are open to all 
CMU students who act, sing, or «dance. 
Students are requested to bring their own 
sheet music. For further information call 
John Mangano (687-I368).
Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University Center,
315 S. Bellefield Ave., will present "En­
counter with Chabad", a <?hassidic evening, 
on Sunday, November 2-at 7:30 Dm in the 
Hillel Lounge.
Is An Ounce of Prevention Worth A Pound
of Cure? Lester Lave, Professor and Head 
of the Department of Economics will speak 
on Preventive Health Care: What can you 
do to improve your health? 12:30 Thurs­
day, Oct. 30th in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo. Bring your lunch and a friend. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
in cooperation with the Department of 
Student Activities.
The uerman Table meets every Tuesday
for lunch from 11:30 until whenever, in 
the Kiltte Cafe. Everyone welcome who has 
an interest in German; fl-uency is not neces­
sary.
Yoga and Human Evolution. Monday,
November 3, 1975 at 7:30 pm. 4401 Fifth 
Avenue at Bellefield, Oakland (University 
and City Ministries Building). The speaker 
will be Swami Sarvagatananda from The 
Ramakrishna Society, 58 Deerfield St. 
Boston, Mass. 02215. Exhibition and sale 
of books: 7:00 pm.
Thomas J. Ward, Esq., Vice-President for
Administration and General Counsel, Dis- 
ston, Inc., will talk to Pre-Law students, 
Wednesday, November 19, 3:30 pm in the 
GSIA Lounge.
He is recruiting for Admissions at Villan- 
ova Law School. Of course, he will be 
willing to answer all general questions of 
interest to prospective law students.
On November 17 the Bookstore will begin 
returning textbooks to publishers. Students 
are advised to purchase needed textbooks 
by that date. The Bookstore will not ac­
cept any textbook returns after that date. 
The Activities Board Executive Committee 
will hold elections for the next A.B. Direc­
tor on Sunday, November 2, at 7:00 pm in 
Room 33, Skibo. The requirements for el­
igibility are the following: the person must 
be a present member of the Executive Com­
mittee, or have at least a semesters active 
involvement as a committee member, or 
have a recommendation from a member of 
the Executive Committee. Any eligible 
person who is interested should contact 
Patty Aerni at 683-5106 by Thursday, 
Oct. 30.
The Coffee House will host a Halloween
Party in the Wherrett Room on Friday, 
October 31, 9:00 pm. Admission is with a 
costume only. There will be apple-bobbing, 
refreshments, and charades. Prizes will be 
awarded for the best costume.
A Crime Prevention Workshop. CLASP is 
an organization teaching people creative 
crime prevention. The workshop will doc­
ument its history and teach the basics to 
Block Organizing. It will be held on Sat., 
Nov. 8, 1975 from 9:30 am-3 pm at the 
Kingsley House, 220 Larimer St., East 
Liberty. It's a chance to deal with com­
munity problems in the city. For more in­
formation call Emma Thompson at 
281-7380.
The Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University
Center will have a graduate social on Sat­
urday, November 1 at 9 pm in the Hillel 
Lounge, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. Come meet 
grads from other campuses.
Having trouble with your courses? FAST—
Free Academic Student Tutoring is now 
available in most CIT, MIS, and Architec­
ture lower-level courses, as well as some 
H&SS courses. Stop by Peer Help, 
BH 150-A or call 621-9900 for further 
information.
The Bnai Brith Hillel-Jewish University
Center, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., will present 
a Holocaust film, "The 81st Blow", on 
Tuesday, November 4, at 8 pm. The film 
will be followed by a discussion led by 
Dr. Shimon Redlich, of the University of 
Pittsburgh, in the Hillel Lounge.
Searching for meaning in your life? What
happens after you die? Does life go on for­
ever? For answers to these, call or visit 
Library Baptist Church, Rt. 88, Finley- 
ville, Pa. 15332. For transportation and In­
formation call 348-6991.
"Sudden Infant Death Syndrome," will be
this week's topic at Central Medical Pavil­
ion, Thursday, Oct. 30, 1975 at 7:30 pm. 
The speaker will be Cyril Wecht, M.D., 
Allegheny County Coroner.
The Central Medical Pavilion is located 
directly across from the Civic Arena on 
Centre Avenue. Enclosed parking is avail­
able in the adjoining garage.
Program on Human Sexuality. Wednes­
day, October 29. This lecture will dis­
cuss the use, types, and results of more 
permanent methods of contraception: 
vasectomy, tubal ligation, abortion. The 
speaker will be Dr. Judith Tyson, Depart­
ment of Obstetrics and Gynecology, West 
Penn Hospital.
Spring Carnival is starting up! We need
people for midway, publicity, arts and 
crafts fair, entrance way, design, power, 
tug of war, and lots more. Also we need a 
carnival secretary. Everyone is welcome, 
freshman thru grads. Call Mike Katz- 
carnival chairperson at 687-0628*or leave 
a note at Skibo Information Desk.
Law and Justice Workshop Series. Work­
shop III—Constitutional Issues: Individual 
Rights and Victimization. Tuesday, 
Oct. 28, 9 am to 5 pm; and Wednesday, 
Oct. 29, 9 am to 5 pm. University Room, 
Webster Hall Hotel, Oakland. Workshop 
coordinator: Beverly Cohn.
The Philosophy Department of Duquesne
University is pleased to announce that 
Dr. Richard Samuel (University of Mel­
bourne, Australia) who is the critical editor 
of Novalis'Works and Visiting Professor at 
fhe University of Pittsburgh, will speak on 
the topic "Nietzsche's Six Challenges To 
Tradition."
The lecture will be held on Wednesday, 
Nov. 5, 1975 at 7:30 pm in Duquesne 
University, College Hall, Room 105.
Every year Student Senate allocates a
certain amount of money to a Campus 
Programming Fund, which is administered 
by the Activities Board Executive Commit­
tee. This fund exists as an opportunity for 
campus groups other than the A.B. to pro­
duce programs that will complement al­
ready existing activities. Any organization 
recognized by Student Senate, or any 
group of individuals that has interest in 
producing a program may petition the Ac­
tivities Board for an appropriation. A 
group wishing to produce an event should 
first explore the possibl¡ties of doing so 
through already established organizations 
such as the Activities Board and other 
programming bodies. The program should 
be an open event and should be planned 
for the campus community as a whole. 
Anyone interested in petitioning for mon­
ey from the Programming Fund should 
contact the Director of the Activities 
Board through the mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk for further details.
"Lay Advocacy in the Catholic Church" is 
the subject that will be addressed by the 
Rev. Donald Mcllvane on Monday, Nove- 
ember 3rd at 8:00 pm at the Passionist 
Monastery, 148 Monastery Avenue on the 
South Side.
The meeting is sponsored by the organi­
zation, Reconciliation for Remarried Cath­
olics and is open to the public. For further 
information, call RRC, 391-9225; or 
write 1224 East Carson St., Pgh. Pa. 15203.
The Women's Collective is sponsoring a
discussion of women's health problems and 
community services, on Thursday, Oct. 30 
at 6 pm in Skibo Room 11. The speakers 
will be Elizabeth Davidow, a community 
outreach person and Frankie Kizzie, a 
counselor, from the Pittsburgh Free Clinic. 
Everyone is welcome. Refreshments.
A program on "Federal Employment
for the Technical Graduate” is to be 
presented on Thursday, October 30, 1975 
at 4:30 pm by Mr. Stanley Brem, Assistant 
Area Manager, and his technical staffing 
specialists, of the U.S. Civil Service Com­
mission.
The program, will be held in the Wherrett 1 
Room and include presentations on Fed­
eral employment opportunities for engi­
neers and scientists, information on proce­
dures and forms, salaries, progression, 
and a question and answer session.
All interested students are encouraged 
to attend.
Classified
Black puppy found on Campus. Call
682-8891.
EARN UP TO $1800 a school year or
more posting educational literature on 
campus in spare time. Send name, address, 
phone, school and references to: Nation- , 
wide College Marketing Services, Inc., 
P.O. Box 1384, Ann Arbor, Michigan 
48106. Call (313) 662-1770.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon­
day through Friday. 682-3190. j
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pay 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help, Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874.
GIVE THE PRESIDENT 
A CALL,
OR JUST LISTEN TO:
The first CYERT Show on Wednesday. 
October 29th from 7 to 8 P.M.
More wood 101,102 621-9728

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975-Page 5
Infirmary Becomes Dorm
Efficiency in the use of popular foods minimizes leftovers.
Food Service Examined
Continued from page one
Dean Swank explained how the 
change was instituted. “We had 3 full time 
nurses last year and having a full time RN 
is expensive.” Over the summer one of the 
RN’s resigned leaving only 2 full time 
nurses on duty. As a result of the deci­
sion to drop the infirmary, the RN was not 
replaced and the funds used for her salary 
were redistributed over the needy areas of 
the Health Service budget. The current 
CMU Blue Cross plan pays for any stays 
at the hospital. According to Dr. Edward 
Bamonte, head of Health Services, “WeVe 
only had Blue Cross for 3 years” and so 
far he is very pleased with its plan.
T rustees
Continued from page one
Corp. and is a life member of CMU’s Board 
of Trustees. Burnham’s predecessor was 
Fred C. Foy.
The Board of Trustees meets three 
times a year, each October , January and 
April.
The information contained in this 
article was given to the TARTAN by Doug 
Konopka and Richard Barnhart, Assistant 
to President Cyert.
Dr. Bamonte also feels, “ In general 
kids are more mature and take better care 
of themselves today”. This has alleviated 
the necessity of having the infimary and 
over the last few years it has been used 
less and less. “Two months have gone by 
and we’ve had no problems at all”.
If someone does get sick at a time 
when the health center is not open, Dr. 
Bamonte suggests that the RA be con­
tacted first, they have been informed as 
to how to proceed in such situations. In 
any kind of emergency health problem, 
don’t fool around, call security immedi­
ately. The Health Services office is open 
between 8:30-5:00, Monday through Fri­
day and there is a doctor on duty between 
11:00 and 4:00 on all of these days. No 
appointments are necessary. There are 
gynecological services available on Thurs­
days and the health center also distributes 
free medicines such as aspirin, cough syrup, 
or penicilin.
The two rooms of the infirmary 
have been turned over to housing and Dean 
Williams, head of Residents life com­
mented, “I was glad to get the rooms”, 
both are being used as triples to help al­
leviate the housing shortage.
bv Claire Lee
After almost 2 months of operation. 
Food service is in satisfactory condition 
for both Rita Cohen (Director of Food 
Services) and students. Ms. Cohen says 
that she feels “comfortable” with both 
the present budget and menu. She hopes 
to break even in relation to food, labor
costs and income this school year. When 
comparing the food costs for the first 
month and a half of this school year with 
that of last year’s same period, she has 
found that last year’s expenses were actual­
ly higher. (With her present 5-entree din­
ners instead of the 3-entree type last year, 
one might have expected greater costs this 
year.) Even though unconfirmed,. Ms. 
Cohen feels that one plausible reason 
would be that the food service organiza­
tion is much more efficient this year, in 
the use of more popular foods with a mini­
mum of left-overs.
In relation to student response concern­
ing the present menus, she is quite opti­
mistic. Most of the comments, which she 
has received on a one-to-one basis, are 
favorable; most are “fairly satisfied.” Bill 
Jacobs (Pres, of Student Dorm Council) 
agrees with Ms. Cohen that students are 
generally satisfied with food service and are 
not so firm in their desire for a “seconds 
line” at the Skibo cafeteria. The SDC food 
committee will meet soon with Ms. Cohen 
to plan a questionaire or survey which will 
ask students for general and specific com­
ments concerning menus, “seconds,” 
service, etc. Ms. Cohen feels that the “sec­
onds line” proposal will need much more 
serious consideration— concerning costs, 
extensiveness and whom it will serve- 
before any decisions can be made. She 
she advises all those who want seconds to 
eat at the Morewood Cafeteria.
Ms. Cohen is also pleased with her 2 side 
projects: “the Doughnut Hole” and “The 
Last Slice” Pizza Shop. The former is oper­
ating “extremely well” in that it is serving 
many students who drop by in the morning 
for a doughnut or two. The sale of boxed 
doughnuts has, however, not been reaching 
expectations. Ms. Cohen will try to build 
up this part of sales, since the operation 
needs a combination of the 2 businesses to 
come out even, financially.
The pizza shop is now breaking even 
with average sales of 75 pizzas per night. 
She is planning a sales promotion campaign 
(soon to be announced) with discount 
coupons and prizes such as free dinners.
As of yet, Ms. Cohen has no definite 
projects in mind, but she hopes that next 
summer some changes can be made in the 
Tartan Grill to make it more of a “Social 
Center which we don’t have.” She would 
like it to become a more comfortable and 
sociable meeting place where people not 
only can eat, but also talk to friends oi 
even enjoy some forms of entertainment.
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES 
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES
215-449 - 2006
by Ryic yk CoocsRckta Ckd 
savc tyurscof syic iykcta We
affer a wide variety af discautt 
travel plats with big savitgs far 
graups atd itdividuals.
TRc Libcrtt Farca Yau cat ga 
hame atd a lat af ather places 
besidesC with utlimited travel at 
ate law price. Yau get a chaice af 
3 platsC taa—7 days far i1bcC 1R 
days far i 1Rc atd b1 days far i 17c. 
Gaad everywhere we flyC except 
Catada.
bryup 10a Save up ta 33lA% 
rautdtrip (up ta bo% ate wayy. 
Graups af 1o ar mare save whet 
they purchase tickets R8 haurs it 
advatce atd take aff tagether. Atd 
yau cat each returt separatelyC if 
yau like. Gaad everywhere we fly.
bryup 4-9a Save up ta bo% 
rautdtrip. Graups af R ta c save 
whet yau make reservatiats R8 
haurs it advatce atd fly tagether 
ta atd fram selected cities. Stay at 
least 3 but ta mare that 3o days.
Leave befare taat at weekdays— 
atytime at weeketds.
Wcckckda Save up ta bk% at 
yaur rautdtrip ticket whet yau 
ga atd returt at a Saturday ar 
Sutday.
Far camplete itfarmatiat at 
all af aur matey-savitg discautt 
travel plats atd flight reservatiatsC 
see yaur Travel Agett ar call yaur 
lacal Alleghety Airlites reserva­
tiats tumber. Atd get ready ta ga 
hame ar atywhere else.
NY
America's 6th largest passenger-carrying airline.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975
Career Notes: The Resume
by Robert H. Nelson 
Assistant Director 
Career Services & Placement
This is the time of year that finds many 
seniors and graduate students wrestling 
with the task of creating an employment 
resume that will fairly and accurately 
portray their qualifications in the highly 
competitive job market that faces them. 
For this reason, I have summarized my 
thoughts about the basics involved in the 
preparation of this document. - You will 
notice I have not included a sample format 
or outline since I believe a resume should 
reflect an element of individuality and 
creativity. You should be cautious however 
so as not to allow this aspect of the resume 
to overshadow its basic purpose . . . that of 
presenting the qualifications of the appli­
cant in a brief format that is organized, 
objective and complete. In addition to its 
use as a data sheet for employers, the 
resume should also be able to successfully 
market your qualifications in your absence 
as an employer compares you with others 
interviewed or with a norm previously 
arrived at. It’s only logical that the more 
thoughtfully and carefully you present 
your qualifications, the more successful 
will be your employment search.
Persons who possess educational or ex­
perience qualifications that are in de­
mand during a certain period usually at­
tract job offers with even a very poor re­
sume. These individuals, However, can ma­
terially enhance their employment hori­
zons by consciously developing a self-mar­
keting compaign. The resume is a very 
effective tool in this instance to gain the 
attention and interest of employers.
There are four principal sections includ­
ed in a resume. Additional information 
such as personal data, honors and awards, 
personal interests, a statement about 
references, etc., is regarded as optional, de­
pending on your priorities and the space 
available after including the following four 
kdy parts.
The Contact Information Section should 
include name, address, and telephone 
numbers-in a neat, consise block which will 
be easily located and read by employers. 
The name, local address, and phone num­
ber should appear preferably on the upper 
right hand side of the page for greater visi­
bility with your home address and phone 
number (if these are different) placed to 
the left. Area codes should always be in­
cluded with telephone number^.
The Objective is a statement of your more 
immediate job interests and should tollow 
the contact information. Employers usual­
ly pay particular attention to this item to 
determine if your goals are consistent with 
current or expected staffing needs. The ob­
jective should be specific enough to show 
direction but general enough to keep your 
options open and should be effectively 
supported by information in the sections 
that follow. You are not expected to be 
able to specifically name that job or jobs 
you are seeking but it should be clear from 
your statement that you have thought
through your career goals and have a basic 
functional interest (or two).
The Educational Section in most cases 
should appear next and should show your 
most recent degree program first and be 
followed by other degrees awarded and/or 
other colleges and universities attended in 
reverse chronological order. A mention 
of your high school program is optional 
but if used should not be overdone in com­
parison with your current degree program.
The statement about your current 
degree program should include the name 
of the university, degree that you will earn, 
and your enrollment dates (e.g. Carnegie- 
Mellon University, September 1972—May 
1976, BS Chemical Engineering). Inasmuch 
as your education is probably the most 
valuable qualification you have right now 
and since it has required a substantial 
investment of time, effort and money to 
complete, you should include a fairly 
comprehensive statement in this section. 
You should not assume that just stating the 
degree will sufficiently explain to employ­
ers th» content of your program. One or 
more of the following suggestions could be 
used to give a potential employer a better 
understanding of your academic experi­
ence:
1. A statement about the direction of 
the program or a summary of 
strengths of the degree program.
2. A list of key courses you’ve taken 
(not with grades) to give employers 
an idea of your individual academic 
exposure.
3. A statement of a particular option, 
major, or special program you’re 
interested in or a statement of areas 
of interest or emphasis.
The Wark Experitce Sectiat begins with 
a summary of your most recent experience 
and should be followed by previous posi­
tions held (shown in reverse chronological 
order). A position, whether summer or 
part-time, that was closely related to your 
educational preparation or to what you 
might want to do, should show the em­
ployer’s name and address, your job title 
and a brief description of your job and 
responsibilities. Related experience can 
make you more valuable to an employer 
and could lead to a position of greater 
responsibility and a higher starting salary. 
Work experience that is not related to your 
job objective should be stated but not 
elaborated on. As in the educational sec­
tion, some items shown here could be 
strongly supportive of your job goal.
Da Nat Itclude
1. A date on the resume - this would 
limit the period of time your resume 
could be used.
2. Irrelevant information that has no 
bearing upon your fitness for the job 
your are seeking.
3. Actual names of references. (It is 
usually better to give out names of 
references when there is mutual 
interest shown or during a later inter­
view.
4. Self-praise statements.
iKediate .ob interestlX 
is in the^general feeld
l?tâ°èPgmS^ÿ.W°rk f0r
previous work Experience: 
Skibo tar tan grill for 
2 weeks. RBXUig Resigned 
after near-fataL greeze
Also, some lite typingfor...
Awards:
Best dressed(Gil^ girl of¿'67-^presented by the HoroJ-he club of Greater
¿ast liberty on sept. 2,1975.
LeoK OVT AACpottALVÏ
5. Quotes about you which are attribut­
ed to others.
Tips ta Remember
1. Write the resume yourself - No one 
else really knows your backround.
2. You may wish to consider having all 
the letters capitalized in certain key 
words such as your name, key words 
in objective, Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity, major, and former employers.
3. Don’t be too humble in describing 
your backround, Be aggressive in 
marketing your capabilities on the 
resume - but avoid being boastful or 
arrogant.
4. Obtain good copies of your original - 
offest or Xerox processes are better 
than “greasy” papei^copies.
5. Limit to two pages - one page if 
backround is not extensive. One 
or two full pages are better than par­
tial pages.
6. If a resume is being mailed to an em­
ployer, it should always be attached 
to an individually typed cover letter.
7. A resume should be in part a fact 
sheet and not be speculative. You 
should emphasize the positive. The 
resume must not be misleading or 
dishonest, but deliberately designed 
by you to market you most valuable 
qualifications.
8. Proofread for spelling and typing er­
rors.
9. After completing the final draft of 
your resume, read it over and see 
if you are comfortable with it. Do 
you feel it will help you in your 
employment search?
10. We encourage you to call upon the 
staff of the Office of Career Services 
and Placement for help in reviewing 
your resume for possible further 
suggestions in its preparation.
Get the facts first then you can distort 
them as much as you please
-Mark Twain
| UNDERGRADUATES and GRADUATES:
Buy your gifts and prescriptions at
"Cathedral Pharmacy”
683-2033
4701 - 5th Avenue Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
10% OFF all prescriptions and health and beauty aids.
Just show us your I.D. card first.
Frat Rush
by Laurie Trask
The fraternity rush of ‘75, after weeks 
of mixers, cook-outs, study breaks, and 
piano smashes, recently ended, with one 
hundred eighty-five men pledging the 
twelve fraternities on campus. The new 
pledges were officially admitted on Satur­
day, October 4th, by a series of special din­
ners and parties held at the fraternities.
At last count, Sigma Alpha Epsilon led 
the frats with twenty-five joining. Close 
behind were two of the smaller houses, 
Tau Delta Phi and Beta Theta Pi, with 
twenty-four and twenty-three respectively.
Most of the frats seemed very pleased 
by this year’s rush. They commented on 
the resurgence of the frats on campus. One 
frat (Theta Xi) admitted two women as 
members.
At the beginning of the school year, a 
number of freshmen were living in the 
frats, due to overcrowded conditions in the 
dorms. Now, most frats have so many 
members that all the brothers can’t stay 
there, and some will have to stay in the 
dorms until after this semester. And there’s 
at least one frat that is already planning on 
pledging several more members in the 
spring semester.
VIDMUK
Jt CO.
Artist's
Supplies
209 S. Craig St. 
Oakland 
621-0529
9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Daily
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays

---------------------------------------------------

THE TAflTAN—October 28, 1975-Page 7
Grades
.No one seems to know the old songs anymore and students should be writing new ones.Photo by Elliot Popowitz
Band Tours Instead of Marching
by Laurie Trask
CMU’s Kiltie Band has begun its last 
year under the directorship of Philip 
Catelinet. Catelinet will retire on June 30th 
of next year, and will return to England.
The ninety-four member band will have 
its first concert of this season on November 
16th. The second prize winner in the 1975 
Harvey Gaul Competition, “Manifesto”, 
by Jeffrey King, will be the featured piece, 
In March, the Kiltie Band will again 
go on tour. This year, they will be playing 
two concerts in Pennsylvania, and one in 
Carnegie Hall in New York City. The band 
will be playing “Shivaree”, by Robert 
Jager, the first place winner of the 1975
Harvey Gual Competition. This will be the 
world premire of this work, written in 
honor of the bicentennial.
During Homecoming, many alumni 
were asking about the lack of a CMU 
band on the football field at half-time. 
Catelinet explained that there were many 
reasons behind this There was a problem 
with the girls wearing the kilts, so the 
girls had wraparounds made several years 
ago. Also, after each field rehearsal the 
football field had to be relined, and this 
was considered an unnecessary expense. 
“I would like to have our band play, but 
I don’t mind having the high school bands 
come. The kids who come really enjoy 
themselves, and it gives them a chance to
see Carnegie,” Catelinet explained.
Catelinet raised the question of the 
school songs. “No one seems to know them 
anymore,” he continued, “And they are
FORBESSTREETGALLERY
ROBIN GREEN 
ROBERT JACOB 
LOsIS WELSH
NOW-NOV. 7
Philip Catelinet Photo by Gregg Lebovitz
the same songs we’ve had since it was just 
Carnegie Tech.” He mentioned that while, 
he’d rewritten some of the old songs, 
he’d like to see students writing some new 
ones.
BEST RESUME
RESUMES 
• Special Student Rates 
• Confidential, fast service
« Guaranteed Satisfaction
Why miss an opportunity to begin 
your career by presenting yourself 
with a poorly prepared resume? 
Ouf staff is composed of highly 
trained and experienced 
professionals who know how to 
market your talents and skills. Our 
resumes command attention. They 
produce results. They can help you 
get that interview so essential to 
your job search. Don't risk your 
future by being unprepared. Call us 
today for information or write for 
free brochure.
-Our Services- Effective Creative 
Composition, Editing and Styling, 
IBM Executive Typing, Custom Of­
fset Printing, Employer Mailing
Lists _ _391-0644
"Pgh's oldest service"
The Penthouse 
625 Stanwix St.
BEST C 
RESsME 
SERVICE
OHices Coast to Coast,
by Paul Smith
The rumours that CMU was going 
to + and - grading were caused by the 
adoption of new grade cards for the benefit 
of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration. The new cards carry all 
possible grading systems from the pass fail 
Honors in H&SS to the + and - for GSIA. 
Instructors were not told that the cards 
only applied to GSIA, causing speculation 
¦ about the adoption of a new grading 
policy. It was not until October 22, 1975, 
two 4ays after grades were due, that this 
was clarified by a note from Registrar 
W.L. Rogers to the effect that the + and - 
applied only to GSIA. Mr. Rogers ex­
pressed his apology for his ommission of 
a clarification note in the instructions for 
the Mid-Semester grades.
CampusServices
by Steve Warren
Campus Services is organizing its 
housing program to insure that CMU will 
be able to accommodate, next fall, all 
students who desire resident housing.
Mr. Steve Zalewski, General Mana­
ger, noted that modifications in food 
service and residence life programs are 
also being considered, so they will stay 
acceptable to campus life.
Fine opportunities exist here, ac­
cording to Mr. Zalewski, who formerly 
was executive director of auxiliary ser­
vices at State University College of Buffalo.
The manager began work at CMU 
this semester; already, he notes that there 
are many similarities between Campus 
Services and the department where he 
perviously worked. At Carnegie-Mellon, 
Mr. Zalewski is responsible for the planning 
and execution of University housing, food 
service and the book store.
Now, he is reviewing operations 
and projecting goals which might best 
benefit the students.Senate
Continued from page one 
-inmittee which requested that the Uni­
versity prepare a study of the attrition rate 
including an assesment of whether the cur­
rent crowded conditions are having any 
effect on the drop-out rate of this year’s 
class.
FREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY- -SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 661-8811

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975
lUOENT SENATE ELECTIO
will he held w november 13.14
1. net up petition al Skido infornatimi desk
2. have it signed by 25 CMU stulents win date nnt signed 
am eider pdtliidd id ide sene ceestlldddcy
3. relerd II Id idles codinlllee cdairvdrsdd. Sklho ldî, 
addirne delween Ocldder id add 3d
ide cddstlldddcids add available seats are as leilows
IMS I 
FI 8

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—October 28, 1975—Page 9
.PAT AND BILLY AND BOB AND SAM
Dear Mark,
I’m afraid that an intelligent review of 
Pat Garrett and Billy the Kid is impossible. 
There are so many different artistic levels 
to that movie that I don’t think that I 
could organize them into one review. Di­
rector Sam Peckinpah tried to bring to­
gether themes of law and lawlessness and 
display them in such a way as to make 
viewers think twice about what is really 
right and wrong.
Peckinpah, who is famous for his vio­
lent films (Straw Dogs and The Wild 
Bunch), used the Old West as his vehicle 
for commenting on the modes of accept­
ance within society. Billy the Kid (play­
ed by Kris Kristofferson) is an outlaw who 
is threatened by his old pal Pat Garrett. 
Garrett is about to assume the position of 
sheriff and he is being pressured by the 
governor to eliminate the Kid.
Now Billy is technically a criminal but 
he is an honorable man who is loved by 
many of the territory’s inhabitants. Gar­
rett, on the other hand, is supposed to re­
present the law but Peckinpah depicts him 
as a man motivated by money and prestige. 
The main reason that Billy the Kid has to 
be eliminated is because big business in­
terests (i.e. the railroad and the cattle 
ranchers) view Billy as a threat to the grow­
ing prosperity of the New Mexico area.
To add to the complications, many oth­
er outlaws become deputies to Garrett. At 
one point in the movie, it becomes impos­
sible to determine the law from the outlaws 
without a score card. Peckinpah is using 
this theme to draw parallels to modem day 
Heroes and villains Without mentioning 
any names, just imagine contemporary 
draft-dogers as Billy the Kid and a few na­
tional politicians as the big business inter­
ests.
Billy the Kid is aided by various charac­
ters throughout the movie but the most im­
portant character who sides with Billy is a 
young bearded stranger named Alias. Alias 
is played by Bob Dylan and the singer con­
tinues to steal the show and also add great
soundtrack. This is a question that could 
be tossed around for weeks. The awkward­
ness that Dylan’s character portrays is not 
necessarily done on purpose. My own per­
sonal guess is that Sam Peckinpah wanted 
Dylan to stick out like a sore thumb. Alia? 
was just as sarcastic toward the other mem
touches of contrast 
brings me to another problem with why 
this film is so difficult to review. Dylan 
does the music for the film and many 
people argue that Dylan was only allowed 
to act in the film because he wrote the
Rita Coolidge plays wife Maria to Kris Billy
to the film. This bers of the film as Dylan is towards other 
people in real life.
Getting back to the music, the sound­
track is simply beautiful. Dylan’s quiet 
acoustic guitar gives a lovely background 
to the film. The single Knockin ’ on Heav­
en ’s Door comes at one of the most cruc­
ial scenes in the movie. A terrific gun- 
battle takes place and a man is badly 
wounded. This lawman was trying to stay 
out of any such fight and when he is shot, 
he walks away from the scene with a look, 
of “What was it all for?” The New Mexico 
sun is setting and the man is on the verge 
of dying. Dylan’s voice appears and the 
words fit in beautifully with the intense 
scene.
The violence and the senseless killing 
paint a pretty gruesome picture of the Old 
West. All the preconceived notions of the 
Old West as a chivalrous epic are complete­
ly washed away by Pat Garrett and Billy 
the Kid.
There are tons of other ideas to work 
with, but I really wanted to stress the dif­
ferent artistic levels that Sam Peckinpah 
tries to achieve within the framework of 
the movie. All the role-switching and 
senseless killing really say something 
about our country’s past, present, and 
future.
Many artists fail to create a successful 
balance with their product because it is so 
difficult to merge various art forms at 
once. If your can manage to forgive Sam 
Peckinpah for his poor time-lapses which 
are due mainly to faulty editing, you might 
be able to see how much genius was needed 
to turn this conglomeration oC counter­
culture ideas into a superb and breathing 
piece of art.
Quiff
P.S. I hope you can see why this is such 
a tough movie to review. 1 couldn’t turn in 
anything that I didn’t think was up to par. 
A quote by Billy in the movie sums up my 
thoughts best,
“Times may have changed but I haven’t.”
Irish atd Americat falk music will
be featured at the Magic Theatre Cafe Cof­
feehouse in a Halloween extravaganza Fri­
day, October 31 from 8 p.m. to midnight 
at the Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave. Produced by Larry Edelman, 
originator of the Magic Theatre, the show 
will introduce Jim Coor, originally from 
Ireland and more recently seen at the Cafe- 
lena in Saratoga, N.Y. Coor accompanies 
himself on the five string banjo and plays 
the fiddle as well. Also featured will be 
Nick and George, two local artists who 
have appeared at Chatham and Camegie- 
Mellon. Locally produced films and a 
theatre group will complete the program.
The Coffeehouse has been a tre­
mendous success in previous years and has 
provided a variety of entertainment for 
those willing to open their minds for a few 
hours. Fine foods will be available and add 
flavor to the Magic Theatre - coffees, exot­
ic teas, cider, and home-made pastries are 
included. A great time can be had for all, 
for the small fee of $.50 and your mind.
SAVE MONEY
Make and store your own 
delicious extranutritious pan­
cake biscuit mix, many uses, 
instructions and recipes are 
254 plus stamped envelope.
Recip-ex Box 18084 
Pitt( Pa. 15236
“Hsian P. Shipman: One-parson show" featuring 
paintings, prints, and sculptura. November 8th 
through 23rd. Pittsburgh Artists, Inc.
Women's 
Healthcare:
Problems and Solutions
H/a/werrsCollecN/e
Discussion by Elizabeth Davidow, 
Community Outreoch person and 
• Frankie Kizzie, director from 
the Pittsburgh Free Clinic
Thursday, Oct. 30: 6 pm in 
Sklbo Rm 11
Refreshments 
sponsored by the Women's Collective
Enseignement des systèmes logiques 
à l'aide de htors logiques modulaires : les « logidules
fAppareil Auger
.... Biet ettetckiC taus les frais d'itscrip­
tiat et de séjaur a l'EPFL seratt à tatre 
charge. AussiC dats l'espair d'ute respatse 
favarableC veuillez agréerC Mademaiselle 
Brigitte BardatC tas respectueuses 
salutatiats.
Cartegie-Mellat stiversity attautces at utdergraduate exchatge pragram with Ecale 
Palytechtique Fedérale de Lausatte (EPFLyC Switzerlatd far selected studetts in etgiteeritg 
atd applied scietce. This pragram represetts the first ittertatiatal exchatge established 
betweet calleges af etgiteeritg it the stited States at a farmal atd recipracal basis. Na 
additiatal expetses are atticipated. L'EPFL is exquisitely situated at the shares af l.ake 
GetevaC surrautded by the Alps atd Jura mauttaitsC it the fretch-speakitg regiat af 
Switzerlatd. Academic departmetts withit EPFL clasely resemble thase withit Grr, where 
emphasis is at etgiteeritg atd applied scietce rather that at pure scietce characteristic 
af maty classical eurapeat utiversities. The pragram affers exceptiatal educatiatal and 
cultural rewards ta selected utdergraduate studetts as well as excititg employment opportuni 
ties fallawitg graduatiat. Far further itfarmatiat cattact Prafessar C.L. Bauer, Science 
Hall R3b3 it persat ar telephate 6b1-b6ooC extetsiat 3k8* >
-—i—4---------\—\----------------------------------------\-----X-----<-1—

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-October 28,1975
lib
//Condoi":THE SHLOCK OF RECOGNITION
by Randell Hunt
Three Days of the Condor is the type of 
film which, upon leaving the theater, you 
either congratulate yourself for anticipat 
ing the plot twists or start disputing the 
vehement claims of your friend that he 
knew all along what would happen, Thi: 
Dino. DeLaurentiis production is a medio­
cre diversion, with Robert Red ford as an 
employee of the CIA who stumbles onto a 
secret he shouldn’t know, resulting in the 
entire CIA (as well as a few others), trying 
to kill.him.
The acting is better than you might ex­
pect. The supporting cast is fine, especially 
Max Von Syndow who handles the film’s 
“heavy”, Jobert with deft underplaying.
Faye Dunaway is quite good, rescuing 
lines that might have drowned in less 
skilled hands. In one scene Dunaway goes 
into a tirade about how abused she is. 
Redford asks, “Have I raped you?” Dun­
away shoots back, “The night is still 
young!” I know that sounds as witty as 
what you would hear on Family Affair, 
but, trust me, she makes it work.
Faye Dunaway has become an excellent 
actress, although this movie doesn’t utilize 
all her abilities. From a weak beginning in 
The Happening, (where she looked like a 
bad imitation of Sue Lyons), she has 
showcased herself in After the Fall on TV,
and in recent quality motion pictures.
Robert Redford is another story. He is 
competent in Tnrte Days of the Condor 
but this isn’t the perfect vehicle for him 
that it should have been. He has only a 
few scenes where he has to show a human 
side and he doesn’t play these well. When 
he comes across the corpse of his dead girl­
friend, Redford doesn’t convey despair— 
the emotion he shows is more like the 
distress of constipation.
Redford should have soliflified his posi­
tion in stardom with this movie. He isn’t 
extremely talented as an actor but he does 
well in roles which require someone icy 
and beautiful, electric and ethereal, much 
like a blue diamond . He was good in The 
Way We Were as the crystalline WASP. He 
is quite capable in action movies like The 
Sting, where all he needs to be is striking­
ly sexy, but he can’t handle roles which re­
quire a depth he can’t provide, (i.e., The 
Great Gatsby). It’s impossible to remain a 
matinee idol forever, but taking jobs he 
can’t handle won’t do his career any good. 
He will last much longer in safe pictures 
like Condor, as long as they are inter­
spersed'with mildly dramatic roles such as 
Hubbell Gardiner in The Way We Were.
Sydney Pollack’s direction is uneven but 
is aided by nice camerawork. The camera 
shakes almost imperceptibly, splicing 
nerves like a well-honed knife. However,
most of the directing is stock for this type 
of movie. Three Days of the Condor is
well-paced at the start, but climaxes unsat­
isfactorily. It’s as though you’re allowed to 
read the first three-fourths of a book and
are then given the facts of the ending rath„ 
er than allowing the author to finish. It 
seems like they ran out of money, so any 
ending that made sense was pasted on. 
Everything collapses and you feel cheated 
because you feel there should have been 
more.
The love scene is particularly atrocious. 
Dunaway shows all the desperation of a 
woman who realizes that her life is empty,, 
and thinks that Redford is the man to fill 
it. Redford doesn’t play a“love” scene; he 
resembles a hooker trying to turn a 
fast trick. Pollack fumbles by breaking up 
the scene with the desolate pictures which 
Dunaway (as a landscape photographer), 
has shot rather than relying on any sort of 
acting. What might have been great is lud­
icrous.
The scripting is generally poor. The onl>r 
good aspect is that the humorous lines are 
often used as both tension relievers and 
character builders. The author has some 
good ideas but doesn’t develop them ad­
equately. He relies too much on fate (Red­
ford avoids death by literally being ‘out 
to lunch’). The writer’s attempt for rele­
vance is right from life’s Pentagon Papers, 
but comes across as sophmoric. *
The last half hour of the picture dam- v 
ages the first ninety minutes, with a result 
that is only fair; but fans of the stars will 
probably like this film.
afternoon iIÜNCHE0N FORUMS
12:30 
Wherrett Room 
Bring lunch 
and a friend
Sponsored by CMU Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975
Sunday, Bloody Sunday-A brilliantly 
crafted film by John Schlesinger, con­
cerning love and compromise and three 
people who learn about it. the hard way.
Peter Finch is magnificient as the homo­
sexual doctor who shares his lover, named 
Bob} with an attractive divorcee (Glenda 
Jackson in a wry, emotion-charged per­
formance). With this film, homosexuality 
was turned from a grotesque joke '(The 
Boys in the Bandi into something wholly 
commonplace and natural The art of 
screenwriting was enhanced by Penelope 
Gilliat's sharp, sophisticated script. A 
flawlessly executed film, with a score 
that makes ironic use of the aria for a 
trio from Cosi fan Tutte.
-Review printed in the Tartan, Feb. 5,
1974.
Penelope Gilliatt even lounges with style. As she 
curis up comfortably on her sofa, sipping a Tab, one is 
aware of a slangy sophistication, a poise that speaks 
of civilized discretion. A “Thank you” seems forever 
on the tip of her tongue; she is alert, enthusiastic--as 
ready with a question as any interviewer. On stage, in 
the Chatham College chapel (where she spoke on 
“Heroes and Filifi”), she seemed like some articulate 
twin of Glenda Jackson In the dimming light of her 
suite, she appears less stony than Ms. Jackson, more 
genteel, but just as striking. Red hair combed back 
without fuss, she wears a white suit, with a scarf which 
she tucks up around her neck Hepburn -style, the gesture 
serving to emphasize the curious, intelligent face. She 
has written for The Observer and The New Statesman, 
and for the past eight years she has alternated with 
Pauline Kael as The New Yorker's film critic. She views 
films with a practical, compassionate eye; her writing is 
tough, precise, and fascinated enough with form to 
risk overturning a few stylistic conventions. She is 
perhaps known better for the film she has written rather 
than for the many films she has written about. “Sunday, 
Bloody Sunday” was a tremendous success in her native 
London and critically acclaimed in the United States. 
Like her novels and short stories, it has attracted i 
steadfast cult following.
Ms. Gilliatt is the Renaissance Man as 20th Century 
Female. She speaks with all the informality and care 
of a woman who takes great delight in learning. She 
posesses those two gifts of the natural writer: a constant, 
demanding hunt for just the right word, and an informed 
eloquence that inevitably provides it. She used the 
afternoon lecture on Heroes to sort through America’s 
attic of cinematic gods and goddesses. (On John Wayne: 
“Jane Austen and George Elliot run rings around him.” 
On Marilyn Monroe:“We admire the waif-likeness, the 
simply-new; we do like bunglers better than power 
figures.”) Her speech portrayed American culture as 
reflected in its superstars, a culture that now opts to 
side with the “gifted go-between,” the James Dean sort 
of silent watcher, whom fate plays its own game of 
tug-of-war with. It is an easy, fatalistic role to adopt, 
but as Ms. Gilliatt notes, “We don’t believe in genius-
we believe in luck.’?
Entertainment Assistant Brad Haymond and I met 
with Ms. Gilliatt shortly after her lecture, in one of those 
well-kept campus apartments reserved for incoming 
guest-speakers. Following are some excerpts from that 
interview.
CHIMSKY: Do you think that Bob is the “gifted go- 
between” in Sunday, Bloody Sunday'] Is he the 
“silent watcher” that brings Daniel and Alex togeth­
er?
GILLIATT: I think that’s true. Yes, maybe it is true. 
There’s something curious structurally, of course, 
in that*film-that one desperately wants Alex and 
Daniel to meet and to get on. And it’s not simply 
because they’re both in love with the same boy. 
You just have a curious feeling, I think, that becomes 
stronger and stronger because of the stfucture of the 
film, that in a way that they’re made for each other, 
that they’re going to fall in love. I mean you know 
perfectly well that they’re not going to, because it 
doesn’t make any sexual or physical sense, But 
they’re awfully alike in lots of ways, partly, of 
course, because they’re both in love with Bob.
HAYMOND: They’re each in themselves such entities.
coincidental.
HAYMOND: It was the train ride.
GILLIATT: It was the train ride. An eight hour train 
ride. It was very peaceful and I love writing on trains. 
It’s impossible to write on aeroplanes, but a joy to 
write on trains. (To photographer, Elliot Popowitz) 
Would you like some different views of me?These are 
pretty boring. Would you like me to stand on my 
head?
To go back to “Bloody Sunday”, when I finished 
writing it, which I did in Boston . . .
CHIMSKY: Excuse me, did it only take you ten days?
: GILLIATT: Yes, the first draft. I mean I worked for 
ages on next drafts, and long, long discussions. Long 
discussions, too, while we were rehearsing. Long 
discussions about casting, of course. Glenda and Peter 
both suggested themselves to John and me very 
quickly. The one whom we had trouble casting was 
Bob, because it seemed awfully important that he 
should be a character who’d in a sense dropped out of 
nowhere, like somebody without a passport, you 
know, or with a passport to everywhere. He’s like 
Ariel in The Tempest, you know?
MEETING WITH 
MS. GILLIAT
GILLIATT: Yes, and they’re both people of such sub­
stance, aren’t they? A lot of people have been wor­
ried theoretically that Bob was too wispy a character 
for people of such substance to fall in love with.
CHIMSKY: That was the biggest criticism of the film.
GILLIATT: It’s partly because we apply different rules 
to art than we do to love. And we wouldn’t say 
that about life, would we? Endlessly in life, one 
says: “I can’t see what he/she sees in him/her.” And 
you know one’s used to situations like that, where 
people seem out of bounds. But one does ask the 
question: “Are they of equal weight?” I think it’s 
partly because the character of Bob was technically 
not as well-played as the character of Alex or Daniel, 
that one is left with that feeling. 1 think it’s more in 
that than in the writing.
CHIMSKY: I was wondering how much influence you 
had over the film, because the screen-writers who talk 
about the film say its almost a writer’s movie, and 
speculate that you must have had a lot of influence.
GILLIATT: I did. An emornous amount.
CHIMSKY: Did you? It’s very uncharacteristic of John 
Schlesinger’s work. It’s so-like Pauline Kael says- 
“So modulated” and you really feel that.
GILLIATT: Yes. Well I’m interested you should say 
that. He was very responsive, I must say. John was 
very good about, extraordinarily responsive about the 
way he dealt with the script, which, you know, he 
was very closely involved in. He didn’t write any of it, 
didn’t have any ideas in it. He instigated it to the 
extent that he commissioned me to do an original.
CHIMSKY: Oh, he asked you?
GILLIATT: Yes. Yes, it wasn’t something I just shopped 
around with.
HAYMOND: The novel had been written before, which 
he had read?
GILLIATT: Yes he had. Oh, you’re very well read.
HAYMOND: I did my homework, yes.
GILLIATT: I started writing it (Sunday, Bloodv Sun­
day) going on a train to see Nabokov, whom I was 
doing a profile of.
CHIMSKY: What kind of influence did Nabokov have on 
it, if any?
GILLIATT: I don’t think any at-all. It’s just purely
by Mark Evan Chimsky
HAYMOND: One reviewer brought up a point about 
a certain schizoid quality between American and 
British in Bob. Is that what you feel, commuting 
constantly as you do between London and New 
York?I
GILLIATT: Ever since I was fifteen, I’ve been coming 
here quite a bit. I have an awful lot of American 
friends. You know it’s very easy because of our 
common language and because of movies, among 
other things, to feel very much at home in America. 
I went for a year to Bennington before I went to 
Oxford.
CHIMSKY: Does having so many friends, especially in 
the film business, make it harder for you to be 
objectively judgemental? You know so many film 
people-how does it work for a reviewer?
GILLIATT: Well, it seems to be allright. If I ever do find 
myself embarrassed by knowing somebody terribly 
well, I opt out and ask Pauline (Kael) to do it. I 
mean, I couldn’t, for instance, review anything by 
John Osborne because he and I were married, and 
that, that would be a very curious situation, I think. 
But there are masses of other people whom I do 
know very well whose work I find it perfectly easy 
to do. You think it’s going to be difficult until you 
actually start writing it, and then you start getting 
so absorbed in the piece itself, in the act of writing, 
in the film that you’re addressing yourself to, that 
that’s not really where your thought goes. When you 
said objective, I’m not really sure there is such a 
thing as objective criticism. Don’t you think one 
always writes subjectively? I think it’s inevitable. 
You carry around with you such an enormous 
amount of handbaggage to do with your own past, 
other pieces of work that you know, other pieces of 
work that have influenced you. I believe that say 
Pride and Prejudice can influence you as much as a 
great friend, that it’s one of the most powerful in­
fluences in one’s life, that there are sort of sue or 
eight books that you love best.
CHIMSKY: By now, it’s becoming movies I look back 
on. It’s now what movies have influenced my life 
the most--just like friends.
GILLIATT: Yes. Yes. Which ones do you find?
CHIMSKY: I think Scenes From A Marriage and, most 
recently The Mother and the Whore.
HAYMOND: And Middle of the World.
CHIMSKY: It seems like the triumverate'of the three 
fllrtts-’-Sce/i« From A Marriage, Middle of the World, 
and The Mot he/ and.. th£„Whore are like a triptych,

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN-October 28,1975-Page 13
^ . .. .I'm not really sure there is such a thing as objective criticism. 
Don't you think one always writes subjectively? I think it's inevitable.
three pieces of art that all clue into the same thing.
GILLIATT: The Middle of the World is such a marvelous 
film. Really first-rate. And it’s a joy to see a quotes 
minor film that’s so perfectly achieved. It’s made very 
modestly on a small budget by people who don’t 
show off at all, but it’s so minutely intelligent. It 
really is like coming across the company of somebody 
who’s had something in common with you all your 
life. That feeling of recognition.
CHIMSKY: Have you seen The Mother and the Whore?
GILLIATT: Yes, yes, indeed I have.
CHIMSKY: Did you like it?
GILLIATT: Yes. Very much. Marvelous picture. Haven’t 
those last few films of Bergman’s been extraordinary? 
The last, say, five. It started with Persona, I think, 
don’t you? That quite different way of making films.
CHIMSKY: And Scenes From A Marriage just complete­
ly floored me-a totally different shift from the ba­
roque eloquence of Cries and Whispers.
Photos by Elliot Popowitz
GILLIATT: Yes!
CHIMSKY: Are you excited about it?
GILLIATT: Tremendously. I don’t know him at all. It’s 
nothing personal. It’s just that I think that even the 
slightly less successful of the last five or six, The 
Touch, is a work of real filmmaking genius. What 
else have we got that’s on a par with that? It’s beyond 
ever the best of Antonioni, beyond Fellini, beyond
anything. He’s the equivalent of a sort of Tolstoy, 
don’t you think?
HAYMOND: He’s our great novelist--he’s our Proust, our 
Joyce.
GILLIATT: Exactly. Yes. Proust is much nearer it.
HAYMOND: Perhaps you can tell me-I heard that 
Losey and Pinter were getting together on a version 
of Proust’s Remembrance of Things Past. Will it 
materialize?
GILLIATT: Well, the thing that stops it from material­
izing is loot, as usual. It’s going to cost nine million 
pounds. There’s an enormous obstruction because of 
the money for such a difficult subject.
HAYMOND: Could you get the Russian government to 
finance it-another War and Peace?
GILLIATT: Exactly! I haven’t read the script, but I 
believe it’s fine. I hear from two people, whom I 
trust, who are writers, that it’s a really first-rate 
piece of work. It’s almost an impossible thing to do.
* John Russell, do you know, one of the art critics of 
The New York Times-he thinks terribly highly of it; 
he’s got very good literary judgement and would be 
very demanding.
CHIMSKY: It’s really a shame. I would think especially 
having Pinter as a ‘name’ for the screenplay, that they 
could raise the money.
GILLIATT: It’s bewildering how many advantages you 
can have to a film project that seem saleable, or 
bankable (that awful word!), and yet you still can't 
get it off the ground. For instance, it happened with 
Jean Renoir. He was out of work and perfectly well 
then for about six years at least. He had four projects 
that he terribly wanted to do and all the most finan- 
ceable actors you could imagine wanted to do them. 
Jeanne Moreau wanted to do one; she’s obviously 
somebody you’d think a film company would want 
to back — Renoir just wasn’t able to raise the money 
for it. And this is terrible for Renoir-almost beyond 
belief, isn’t it? It’s as though Mozart weren’t able to 
work, hadn’t got the paper to write on. It’s not just 
a shame-it’s a scandal to our culture.
CHIMSKY: Because we cheat ourselves. That’s the sad 
thing.
GILIATT: Exactly. When one thinks of the junk that 
gets made.
CHIMSKY: Especially recently.
GILLIATT: I know. They’ve been dog days of film for a 
long time now.
CHIMSKY: Do you consider yourself a journalist? How 
do you think of yourself in terms of writing?
HAYMOND: Where does the critic stand between jour­
nalism and art?
GILLIATT: Well, you’re a journalist to the extent that 
you meet deadlines and cater fairly much to a partic­
ular audience. I do write differently for a New York 
or an American audience than I would for The 
Observer. So to that extent, it’s journalism. I write 
such a lot, as you know, that isn’t film criticism, and 
I don’t think of myself as being purely a film critic 
at all. In fact, often when writing a piece of film 
criticism, I’m aware that I’m almost turning in into 
a short story, and then I stop. They’re interesting- 
more than interesting--they’re sort of terrific fun, 
and energizing to do, to fool around with the form a 
little bit and see whether you can’t attack the prob­
lem of writing critically about a film in quite another 
way, so that you don’t simply do an argumentative, 
computative piece.
HAYMOND: Film criticism is not literary criticism in 
the sense of T.S. Eliot or John Milton or Henry James 
writing about their peers. It’s a whole different art 
form.
"/ don’t think of myself as being 
purely a film critic at all. ”
GILLIATT: Yes. Yes. You have to start from scratch, 
of course, every time. I guess one always feels that 
about every endeavor; that you never learn every­
thing. But there are particularly few ground rules 
that have been laid down that are of any help. If 
you’re doing drama criticism you have the great 
Shaw, the great Leigh-Hunt, the great Hazlitt for 
you, and there are models that one can follow. But 
you’re in the dark with film because it’s midway be­
tween a verbal and a visual art, so you have to think 
of ways of writing about it that will be evocative in a 
literary way, and yet also be responsive to what’s, 
going on visually and technically in the picture with­
out overloading the piece with technical knowledge. 
It’s always seemed to me that one of the most impor­
tant things you can do in criticism is not the evalua­
tive work, (not saying it comes here in the ‘pan­
theon’ ), and trying to avoid too many of those 
adjectives, but much more to write evocatively. 
To make people feej, “Oh I see, that’s what the 
experience of seeing that picture is like;” and if 
one can succeed in doing that, and recording how 
that particular film struck that particular mind on 
that particular day, then one’s succeeded in doing 
something.
PLATIGNsM ITALIC SET
12538M5a 8 k2e538M5 nd5s kMtd 
M38oMr 5Myas 85u M5a3wer3M25 
l85e8M8k1 k2w25ki ckx22xxx 
p3 8w3 l83rwM81­bbd5 am2nas 
r2M,r,br y224 a32wdaxxx 2w ad5u 
rmdr4s 32 v.d538kMr 12wnxs 3cS 
itda3 SS S3xs N.y.C N.y. 10011 
puu ko rd53a k2w MM85ukM5gx
The Amos Tuck School 
of Business Administration
Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H.
Men and Women seeking 
EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT 
are invited to discuss the
TUCK MBA
With
Dean David J. Evans 
Tuesday, October 28
Career Services and Placement
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
24H ourrLae
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS • RESUMES • CATALOGS • POSTERS 
LETTfcXHEADS • BUSINESS CAROS • FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS • BOOKLETS • SCHEDULES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975
The Old Man and The Book
by Rick Costa
He had always been a safe, methodical driver, so 
when he drove through two lawns, over a wall and into a 
row of bushes while touring Oakland, he was more sur­
prised than anyone. He could not recall the exact steps 
which had led his car into the bushes and would lje the 
last one to blame the accident on his age. He slumped 
against the steering, momentarily stunned, muttering. 
He could almost believe that thè entire accident was 
a dream, since it seemed to him that he had just driven 
past two purple and orange lions. The bushes ihat push­
ed against the hood of his car belonged to a CMU frater­
nity and one of the brothers came out ot look at the car 
in his front yard.
“Hey old man, are you OK?”
“Sure I’m fine. There s no damage, is there?”
“Don’t worry about Ihem bushes. Come on in and sit 
down awhile.”
Howard did not want to, but he did feel tense, so he 
let the younger man lead him inside. They went through 
a short hall and then into a living room. Howard pushed 
a pile of dirty clothes off a sofa and sat down. He could 
hear loud music coming from three different directions 
at once. All three stereos were booming out “The 
Haltertop Blues,” the nation’s ntimber one song at this 
time, although Howard was not aware of this fact. 
There was a bag of unopened potato chips on the floor 
.and it looked like someone had stepped on it. There 
was cheese dip smeared on the color tv screen.
“.What kind of place is this?” Howard asked.
“This is a fraternity house, pops.”
“Looks like a swell place for a bunch of young 
fellows.”
“Hey pops, you want a beer?”
“Alright.”
The student went into the kitchen. Howard, fingering 
a pile of dirty shirts next tb him on the sofa, began to 
sweep the room in wide, rapid glances. He knocked over 
a full ash tray and the fraternity’s stuffed water buffalo 
head. The head was hollow and one of the polished 
horns was a disguised spigot. On the black vinyl nose 
were embossed the words “Eat, drink, and be a water 
buffalo” and “Souvenir of Atlantic City.”
The student returned to the room and tossed a can 
of Budweiser to Howard, who missed it. It hit him on 
the ankle and rolled across the floor until it bumped into 
a chemistry book spread half-open on the floor. Howard 
unobtrusively got up to get the beer, but the other man 
got to it first and carefully handed it to Howard, who 
took the can quickly and sat back down."FMC IS COMING
“That’s real nice of you not to say anything about 
the bushes. I can’t understand how that could have hap­
pened to me.”
“Don’t mention it.”
Howard started looking around the room again, 
trying to think of something interesting to say.
‘The girls today don’t wear much in the way of 
clothes, do they? Miniskirts. No bras. Back in my day 
the boys had to strain their eyes just to see a bit of an­
kle.”
“I like today better,” the brother answered.
“My granddaughter goes to CMU.”
Howard had been saving this fact until last.
“What’s her name? Maybe I know her.”
Howard told him her name and noticed a merry
Moldy
Slices
gleam come into the young man’s eye.
“I’ll be back in a second pops.”
He came back with a volume bound in brown leather 
and handed it to Howard.
“Turn to page sixty four.”
Howard did so and there he found a column of names 
and his granddaughter’s was second from the bottom.
“What is this book?”
“This book has a long history. It goes all the way 
back to nineteen thirty eight. It’s offlcal property of my 
frat.” ,
Howard did not immediately understand what this 
meant.
“What’s this number seventy six doing next to her 
name?”
“She was trying to get into the Guiness Book of 
World Records.”
The student continued, “On a scale of one to ten, I’d 
rate her four, maybe five. No more than five.”
“You filthy punk.” Howard threw h/s can of beer at 
him.
Hey you old son of a bitch. You’re getting beer all
NOVEMBER 4,1975 Our Recruiter will be on campus
to interview Seniors and Graduates in
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
«FMC
FMC CORPORATION
INDsSTRIAL CHEMICAL DIVISION
An Equal Opportunity Employer
B'NAI B RITH HILLEL-JEWISH 
UNIVERSITY CENTER
ilhedn
GRADUATE SOCIAL
Saturday November 1 9 p.m.
Hillel Lounge 
Come meet grads from other campuses
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

TRAP
THE TARTAN—October 28, 1975—Page 15
over the posters. What are you getting so hyper about.
I said she was at least a five.”
“I’m going to kill you,” Howard announced and he 
lunged at him. The student yelled for help and immedia­
tely four of his brothers appeared from the adjoining 
rooms. They pried Howard from their friend and threw 
him out on the front lawn, locking the door behind him.
Howard went to the trunk of his car and got out a 
length of thick black hose he had carried with him since 
the riots when Martin Luther King was assassinated. He 
leaned on his car until his breathing subsided, at the 
same time noting that he had driven past two purple 
and orange lions. Then he went up to the frat house and 
smashed in the front window.
The brother who had been attacked shouted, “Some­
thing’s got to be done with this crazy old man. First he 
drives into our yard and then he tries to kill me because 
his grandaughter’s so friendly.”
By this time Howard had crawled in through the 
front window, with the length of hose clenched threat­
eningly in his fist. The brothers pinned him to the 
ground and took off his trousers.
“Hey get a load of this old guy’s underwear. It
reaches down to his knees.”
They pushed him through the door and out into the 
street, where they dumped him down. Several minutes 
later, the campus security police picked him up for 
indecent exposure.
“The Haltertop Blues”
You’ve got your haltertop on today 
Half your tanned body is on display 
But no matter what I do or say 
I know you won’t ever want to play
I see bouncing hemispheres of joy 
Since I was a kid, ain’t seen such toys 
Just what’s needed for a curious boy 
And now you have to start acting coy
Whenever you decide to bend or stoop 
Your promontories really sway and droop 
Putting pressure on fragile, colorful loops 
And then I get the full, uncensored scoop
Everywhere that I care to stare 
Nubile bodies bare beyond compare 
Sunny country women with nothing to wear 
I got to frollic with one of these mares
I know the flesh the haltertop hides 
Will rot away soon after you’ve died 
But right now I need solace for distracted eyes 
Something to make me tap dance inside
I can tell by the outline they’re fine 
Let’s remove that tiny piece of twine 
To delay now would be such a crime 
We’ll make good use of our valuable time • 
(Chorus)
I should be learning how to run my gun factory 
Or reading the footnotes in my book of biology 
Or changing the spark plugs in my old Chevy 
But ’til I tickle and tease I won’t never be 
happy
Soon it will be quiet and we’ll be alone 
We’ll shut the doors and windows and discon­
nect the phone
We’ll neglect to pay the loans on our suburban 
homes
You’ll be the queen and I’ll be the drone
Won’t you make me feel at ease 
Won’t you help me cure this disease 
Won’t you hand me that pillow, please 
Let’s go out under the willow trees 
(Chorus^
“CHORUS”
Baby, they’re dangling so loose 
My mind feels so very confused 
And it’s time now to pay your dues 
Cause 1 eot the haltertop bl"ps
BOsNDARIES
by David Cates
This is wind country. Horizons 
break open; sand scours the brain. 
Every line you have ever known 
is blown from your'memory.
You’re spilling yourself 
to the wind. It pulls 
at your blood like the moon 
wrecking tides on the shore.
Mountains edge closer. The wind 
is causing this. Your lungs 
pump like nervous hands 
guarding a sackful of secrets.
There is no hiding 
from wind. It carves 
valleys from stone. It is tunneling 
under your skin.
What hand is this
carving your life from the wind?
You shiver and scatter. This is no land 
for the living.
Tumbling down the border 
between wind and breath 
you find there is 
no finer line
i m
B N Al B'RITH HILLEL-JE WISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
“Encounter with Chabad"
a Chassidic evening 
Sunday November 2 7:30 p.m.
Hillel Lounge 
*************************** 
'The 81st Blow", a Holocaust film
Tuesday November 4 8 p.m.
followed by discussion led by 
Dr. Shimon Redlich, University of Pittsburgh 
Hillel Lounge
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE 
(ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875
FLORENCE
LONDON
MADRID
Syracuse University
1976
Spring Semester Abroad
Italian, Fine Arts History,
Political Science
English, Political Science, Drama, 
Art, Communications 
Spanish Language & Literature, 
Economics Anthropology 
STRASBOURG French Language & Literature,
Religion, History
AMSTERDAM History, Fine Arts, Anthropology,
Dutch Culture, Sociology
APPLY NOW
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 
335 Comstock Avenue 
Syracuse, N. Y. 13210 SCHOLARS*'
(Tel. 315-423-3471) AVAILABLE
i

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975sports
IT STARTED WITH THE SEMIFINALS . . .
Photo by Paul Williams 
Major league champions. Beta Theta Pi, in the semi-finals against the Oakland 
DolphinsHSCHER LANCES DOLPHINS
by Roger Geddes
Beta quarterback, John Fischer, threw 
five completions to John “Lance” Lank­
ford, three of which were touchdowns, in 
a semi-final victory over the Oakland 
Dolphins, 41-26. The game was much 
closer than the score indicated as the 
championship hungry dolphins nearly 
pulled a major upset.
The first half was dominated by the 
Dolphins who only let up on a 29 yard 
touchdown pass to Lankford for Beta’s 
only sizeable gain of the half. A fierce 
rush led by Rupnick of the Dolphins 
sacked Fischer continuously. Throughout 
the half he was chased out of the pocket 
and never had time to find open receivers.
A 32 yard pass to Ralph Domenick 
set up the first Dolphin score as quarter­
back Audie Stokes ran it in from the 
seven yard line. Dolphins led at the half,
9-6.
The second half immediately took a 
turn as "Beta, a second half team most of 
the year, scored right away on an 11 -yard 
pass to Bruce Bickar. The Dolphins came 
right back with two passes to Joe Dickey, 
the second one being a 13 yard touch­
down pass. The lead was short lived how­
ever as a defensive holding penalty kept the 
next Beta drive alive and an 18 yard pass 
tc Bickar gave Beta a 19-14 lead.
The Dolphins could not capitalize 
on an illegal block in which they received 
the ball at the Beta seven. But they did 
capitalize on a short punt that gave them 
the ball on the nine yard line as Stokes ran 
it in to tie the score at 19-19 with 4:50 left 
in the game.
Beta scored on their next two pos­
sessions on a 10 yard pass to Jeff Grube 
and 23 yard pass to Lankford. With 1:15 
left in the game, Rich Bamburak caught 
a 20 yard touchdown to pull within five 
of Beta.
A Dolphins on side kick was recovered 
by Beta and Lankford caught a two yard 
pass for the clinching score. Beta’s final 
points came on a 40 yard interception 
return for a touchdown by Bob Schulman.
For awhile the game had shades of 
three years back when Beta went unde­
feated in regular season only to be upset 
in the semifinals. But the most potent 
offense in the league went to work and 
scored 17 points in a span of three minutes 
to eliminate all doubt.
KS AND IX TAKE SEMI'S
by Jim Balik
The Intramural tootball season 
ended for the McGilldoes after a heart 
breaking loss to Kappa Sigma in the 
intermediate semifinals, with tiie score 
of 19-18. As the score indicates, it was a 
close game down to the final seconds.
Kappa Sigma began the game by 
receiving the kickoff. Their inability to put 
together an effective offense forced them 
into a punting situation. In the following 
four downs, the McGilldoes displayed the 
best offensive plays in the game. Guy 
Farruggia, McGilldoes’ quarterback, passed 
for 20 yards to Paul Landis to set up the 
McGilldoes first touchdown. The first 
quarter ended with Kappa Sigma getting 
on the scoreboard by Mark Allman’s run, 
good for 25 yards, and a touchdown pass.
An exchange of interceptions fol­
lowed the first quarter action with the
McGilldoes intercepting at the KS 15.
On the first down, Guy Farruggia hit Paul 
Landis for a perfect “thread the needle” 
touchdown pass. This was the third recep­
tion by Landis with two good for TD’s.
» The McGilldoes offense fell to
pieces in the second half. On the first 
set of downs, a tipped pass was inter­
cepted by KS. This was easily converted 
to a TD. After the KS kickoff, the 
McGilldoes continued to have problems. 
Kappa Sigma intercepted again and this 
interception turned the tide. After an 
exchange of position by each team by 
failing to convert fourth downs, KS 
finally scored again, leaving the final score 
19-18.
In the other intermediate semi-final, 
Dave Brazon hit end Mark Pozzi in the 
closing minutes of the game for a three 
yard touchdown pass to give Theta Xi 
a 26-19 win over Red Death.
The entire Theta Xi offense consisted 
of Brazon passing to Pozzi as Pozzi caught 
touchdown passes of 30, 21, and 8 yards 
to give Theta Xi a commanding lead 
through most of the game.
Red Death came back with inter­
ceptions by Mike Gibbs and Roger Geddes 
to set up a seven yard touchdown pass 
to John Faber and a three yard touch­
down fun by Terry Neely to pull within 
one point of Theta Xi. But in the fourth 
quarter, Theta Xi received good field 
position when Red Death was stopped 
short of a first down. They then drove 
down to the three to set up the winning 
catch by Pozzi.
by Mike Pochan
Defending major ¦ lea'gue intramural 
football champions PIKA nudged Coaches 
All-Stars 27-18 in a semifinal playoff game 
that was plagued by interceptions, contest­
ed calls, and penalties.
The All-Stars exploded after receiving 
the opening kickoff, initiating a 50-yard 
drive that was capped wjth a touchdown 
catch by A1 Kobiin, Mike Hill quarter- 
backing. PIKA’s offense took control of 
the ball, and it looked as if the All-Stars 
defense would be 'just as explosive with 
Pyzdrowski and Conners putting on a 
fierce rush, PIKA turned over the football 
after three quick plays to put the All-Stars 
on their own ten.
The momentum of the game changed 
suddenly as PIKA’s top defenseman, Mark 
Vranderic, grabbed a tipped pass and ran 
35 yards for a touchdown. The touchdown 
was called back on a clipping penalty, but 
PIKA quarterback, Jay Harper, connected 
to Paul 'Minor to establish good field 
position. Emmett Reed made a diving 
catch at the one to set up Harper’s conver­
sion to Minor for five points, the score stand­
ing at 8-7.
The All-Stars rolled again, Hill to Koblin 
for 25 yards, to the one-yard line. Mark 
Vranderic intercepted in the end zone on 
the next play to destroy the All-Star’s scor­
ing opportunity.
Harper moved the PIKA offense with 
short passes to within 20 yards of the 
goal, but Dave Nakles broke up a key pass 
and then intercepted to kill the drive. 
Vranderic returned the favor and inter­
cepted another tipped pass to put PIKA 
back in scoring position. Harper scrambled 
to the 10, then completed to Minor on the
one. The All-Star’s Ted Stem intercepted the 
next pass in the endzone, but had it 
nullified by an offsides penalty. Harper 
hit Emmett Reed for the touchdown.
Hill to Schiffman for 40 yards gave 
the All-Stars another shot at scoring, 
but they were unable to convert as time > 
ran out in the half.
PIKA struck first in the second half as 
Loeffler pulled the ball out of a crowd 
in the endzone to make the score 20-10. 
The PIKA defense dominated the All-Star 
offense to force a turnover.
Jay Harper ran the ball for a 30 yard 
gain, but was nailed for a 20 and then a
10 yard loss by Pyzdrowski and Conners.
A 15-yard roughing penalty cut the loss in 
half, but PIKA still had to punt.
Mark Vranderic intercepted yet another 
pass to snuff the All-Star’s offense. The 
short-pass attack of PIKA could not 
convert and the All-Stars finally got on the 
board again with Hill to Schiffman for a 
35-yard TD.
The PIKA offense moved as usual with 
short passes, but on a run to the right, 
QB Harper was violently knocked out of 
bounds and out of the game.
Chuck McConnell took over the helm 
and moved to the five with Emmett Reed. 
All-Star’s Bob Dax snagged the ball in the 
endzone to wipe out another sure-scoring 
opportunity.
Schiffman was interfered with on a long 
pass play, moving the All-Stars from their 
20 to the PIKA 20. Chuck D’Angelo saved 
the day for PIKA as he made the game’s 
seventh interception.
Harper returned to the game and 
received a poor welcome as he was tagged 
in the face, drawing a personal foul.
The PIKA offense went nowhere and 
the PIKA defense held firm to destroy 
the All-Stars hopes, 27-18.
the only way to truly remember that
ifTHESE ARE
THE GOOD OLD DAYS"
Subscriptions for Thistle '76 are going 
on sale only once this year:
NOVEMBER 11-14 
9 am-5 pm 
BAKER HALL
Seniors $9.00 All others $10.00 
(minimum deposit $5.00)
DON'T MISS OUT! THIS WILL BE 
YOUR ONLY OPPORTUNITY 
TO ORDER YOUR COPY OF

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 28, 1975-Page 17
. . . AND ENDED WITH BETA AS CHAMPS
Photo by Carl West
Pika's quarterback. Jay Harper, being pursued by Beta's , Tim Ottie, in the finals.
UNDEFEATED KS, NOW 7-0
by Larry Mieczkowski
In a game that was viewed as a re­
match of their first meeting, Kappa Sigma 
defeated the brothers of Theta Xi, 39-28, 
to become IM intermediate league champs. 
In comparison to the first meeting, which 
was played in a pouring rain, the two teams 
and a hundred or so followers were 
welcomed with a warm and sunny Friday 
afternoon.
Kappa Sigma received the opening 
kick-off and set their offense into gear as 
Mark Allman combined on passes to Larry 
Mieczkowski and Alan Brown netting them 
a first down at the TX 14 yard line. Allman 
then found Mike Zidanic in the right cor­
ner of the endzone for a touchdown and 
KS went in front 6-0. The two teams 
exchanged punts with TX netting one 
first down and having their offense stalled 
with interceptions by Sandy Richards and 
Larry Mieczkowski. Kappa Sigma could 
not hold down Theta Xi’s speedster, Mark 
Pozzi, for long though, as he and his 
quarterback Dave Brazon teamed up for 
a 30 yard T.D. and Theta Xi went out in 
front 7-6. As the half was coming to a 
close, Kappa Sigma picked up a first down 
and the two teams retired for a break to 
regroup and plan their strategy with the 
score tied at 7-7.
Scoring in the third quarter was 
limited with Theta Xi scoring a touch­
down on another Brazon to Pozzi pass 
and adding several points on Bill Fedarko’s 
receptions. Kappa Sigma could only 
muster a few points on Allman’s running 
and his passing to Gerry Pierone and Keith 
Gordon, though an opportunity at a TD 
arose when Kappa Sigma found themselves 
at the TX 10 yard line but suffered a 
penalty setting them back to the TX 35 
giving KS a fourth goal. Allman then sent 
Mieczkowski long on a flag pattern which 
connected and Mieczkowski went out of 
bounds at the half yard line, just short
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
of a goal. The quarter ended with TX in 
front 15-9.
The fourth quarter had to be one of 
the most exciting periods of IM football 
this year as Kappa Sigma racked up 30 
points. Theta Xi could only muster 
13 points with Kappa Sigma putting on 
a display of their offensive ability. The 
barrage began as Richards picked off 
another TX pass. Allman took his team 
down the field and connected with Keith 
Gordon for an eight yard TD. The Kappa 
Sig defense, with the fine defensive play 
of Bob Stevens, Bob Komamicki, and 
Kevin Handerhan, held TX to no gain. 
Again, Allan dropped back, dumped 
off a pass to his halfback, Gerry Pierone, 
who then found Richards in the endzone 
for a 12 yard TD making the score 20-15.
Continued on page eighteen
by Roger Geddes
After eight years of waiting, Beta Theta 
Pi has finally regained the title of intra­
mural football champs with a convincing 
23-9 victory over rival Pi Kappa Alpha.
Beta, winner of many championships 
in the mid sixties lost the crown to Pika 
in the late sixties. Pika’s dynasty consisted 
of five out of six championships up until 
this year and participation in seven of the 
last eight championship games. Beta had 
lost two straight championship games.
The 14 point win over Pika was the 
most lopsided victory in the finals in the 
last 10 years. In finishing with an un­
blemished record of 9-0 Beta had the top 
offense in the league averaging 29 points 
per game and the top defense allowing 
only 12 points per game.
Pika received the kickoff but their 
drive was halted early by a Bob Schulman 
interception. Quarterback, John Fischer, 
who engineered Beta’s earlier 39-20 win 
over Pika in regular season ran for a first 
down to Pika’s five but the Pika’s defense 
tightened and took over the ball when 
Beta could not move. Pika scored on 
their next possession primarily on the 
running of quarterback Jay Harper. In 
the earlier meeting between these two 
teams the field was muddy and Harper 
was stopped on the ground. The rush on 
a dry field did not stop Harper from 
gaining sizeable yardage in the first half.
Two runs by Harper and a pass to 
Emmett Reed were good for first downs. 
A short pass to Paul Minor brought it 
to the seven and the first play of the 
second quarter Harper ran it in for the 
score. Pika led at this point 8-1, but this 
was all the Beta defense would give up and 
in the next three quarters held the Pika 
offense • to an amazing one point.
Beta’s next drive consisted of an 
interference call for a one point and a 
17 yard pass to Jeff Grube for another. 
But Pika’s defensive back Mark Vranderic
came up with a clutch play, intercepting 
Fischer in the end zone to give the ball 
to Pika. This was equalled however when 
Schulman intercepted his second pass 
from Harper. Two runs by Fischer for 
a first down set up a touchdown catch 
by Steve Berry, in a crowd, from the eight 
yard line. Pika could not muster a drive 
before the half ended as Beta began to rush 
two men on the quarterback and shut off 
Harper’s run completely. The half ended 
with a Jim Goodwin sack of Harper and a
10-8 Beta lead.
With a victory in sight Beta came out 
rolling as passes to Bruce Bickar for 19 
yards and Rich Kucik for 25 set up a five 
yard run and a score for Fischer. Pika got 
their last score of the game on their only 
double pass completion of the day from 
Chuck McConnell to Tom Loeffler but 
were forced to punt as they could not 
move the ball.
This turned out to be the most highly 
contested play of the game as Bickar
fumbled the punt in the end zone and 
players from both teams touched it
before it rolled out of the end zone. The 
referees ruled that a Pika never had
possession so their was no touchdown or 
safety and Beta took over at their 10. 
Fischer then hit Bickar with a 40 yard 
bomb to the 10 to end the third quarter 
18-9. Beta was stopped at the three 
by a determined Pika defense but this 
did not carry over to their offense as
they were forced to punt after three 
plays. Beta again moved down the field to 
the two but the Pika defense again stop­
ped the drive. With three minutes left and 
Pika in a do or die situation Jim Goodwin 
sacked Harper in the end zone and the 
game was clinched for Beta. On Pika’s last 
effort Dennis O’Connell intercepted and 
Beta ran out the clock to finish their 
perfect season.
The game ball definitely had to go to
Continued on page nineteen
Refreshercourse.
From one beer lover to another.
«’HE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 4S226

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN—Octobef 28, 1975
CMU CRUSHES CASE
Photo by Carl West 
CMU's Soccer Team easily defeated St. Vincent, 
7-3, last Tuesday at home. Saturday the team 
played W&J and tied 2-2 in double overtime, 
leaving their season record at 3-4-1.
SAE WINS 
X-COUNTRY
by Mike Pochan
The latramural cross country meet was 
held Tuesday, October ?4 on Flagstaff 
Hill with twelve participants. SAE’s Ray 
Smith and Roy Parker tied for first 
place with a time of 11:40, SN’s Pete 
Hoysan came in second with 12:12, 
George Welsh of PKT third with 12:21, 
and Jim Van Sciver of PKT with 12:28. 
The final outcome was SAE taking first 
place with eleven points.
by Gerry Fraley
With all the subtlety of a train wreck, 
the Carnegie-Mellon Tartans crushed the 
Case Western Reserve Spartans, 26-0, in 
a President’s Athletic Conference game at 
Cleveland on Saturday. The win raised the 
Tartans’ record to 3-3 in the conference, 
4-3 overall, while Case’s record dropped to 
0-7.
Chuck Wepner had a better chance a- 
gainst Muhammad Ali than Case did against 
CMU. The Tartans completely outplayed 
the Spartans. Tech’s defense limited Case 
to the trifling figure of 50 yards total of­
fense in the game. Tech’s running back, 
Dick West, alone had more total offense 
than that, picking up 94 yards on 16 car­
ries. More impressive than the Tartans’ 
statistical edge was the physical beating 
they inflicted upon Case. It hurt just to 
watch.
Tech’s first score was set up by their 
aggressive defense. Midway through the 
first quarter, Case was forced to punt from 
their own 29 yard line. The Tartans eight 
man rush attempted to block the punt and 
they succeeded as tackle Bob Hantz deflec­
ted the Joe Herold punt, giving Tech pos­
session on the Case 28.
Three plays later, West burst through a 
gaping hole created by the left side of the 
Tartan offensive line and then rambled for 
an easy 16 yards to score. Left guard Mark 
Uram and left tackle John Bielich have to 
be given credit for the touchdown. They 
blasted open a hole so wide that the team 
bus could have gotten through. Tom Mc- 
Meekin was successful on the conversion 
and Tech had a 7-0 lead with 5:57 remain­
ing in the first quarter.
The Tartans continued to handle Case 
throughout the remainder of the first half 
but failed to put any more points on the 
board until just before the end of the first 
half. Pete Antamarino was in at quarter-
HUMAN SEXUALITY
Contraception —
Continued
Wednesday 
Oct. 29
in Breed Hall 
Margaret Morrison
Sponsored by 
Dept, of Stud't Act.
—« ¦
back in place of Jay Duquette and was 
faced with a third and ten from the Tartan 
32. Antamarino aot only got the first 
down, he got everything on the play, as he 
hooked up with tight end Rick Schademan 
for a 68-yard scoring play. Schademan 
had a step on the Spartan secondary and 
Antamarino made the most of it with a 
perfect toss that hit Schademan in full 
stride. The conversion attempt failed as a 
result of a high snap from center, but the 
Tartans’ lead had stretched to 13-0 with 
0:38 remaining in the half.
Tech’s offense failed to score in the 
third quarter but the defense continued to 
manhandle the Case offensive attack. 
There had been some pre-game concern be­
cause two starters, comerback Tom Robich 
and linebacker Keith Baker, could not 
make the trip due to injuries. The game 
proved that the concern was unwarranted. 
Linebackers Bill Reppa and Mark Balent, 
the only seniors on the squad, played some 
outstanding defense as they consistently 
denied Case outside running room, the 
only big offensive threat that the Spartans 
had.
The defense was directly responsible for 
the next Tartan score. Case quarterback, 
Bill Vaughn, hit tight end Terry Butler over 
the middle from the Spartans 25. Butler 
could not hang on to the ball as he was 
tapped by safety MikeHaupt. The ball 
glanced off Butler’s hands and into the 
grasp of linebacker Rich Lackner at the 
Case 32.
Antamarino, who had been alternating 
with Duquette throughout the game went 
to the air immediately. He first connected 
with split end Bill O’Mara for a 22 yard 
pickup. Two plays later, Antamarino again 
found Schademan for the score. Schade- 
man’s catch was nothing less than sensa- 
tiona. He Caught the ball while stretched 
out in mid-air, completely horizontal to 
the ground. McMeekin was able to get the 
conversion attempt off and it was good, 
giving Tech a 20-0 lead wih 6:07 left in the 
game.
The Tartans added a meaningless score 
when Antamarino plunged one yard on a 
quarterback sneak with 1:34 remaining. 
Antamarino again showed a strong passing 
arm when he hit Gary Bonn for 16 yards to 
move to the Case four.
The 1975 edition of Tech football will 
come to a close this Saturday when the 
Allegheny Gators come to Tech Stadium 
for the season’s finale this Saturday.
CMU CWRU
First Downs 13 6
Yards Rushing ^ 172 42
Yards Passing 116 8
Passes 5-20 4-16
Passes Intercepted by 2 1
Punts 5-22.8 10-31.0
’nimbles Lost 0 1
Vards Penalized 7-54 5-49
Rangers
Whip
Sabres
by Elly Zimmennan
On Thursday, the minor league finals 
were played between the ROTC Rangers 
and the SAE Sabres.
The Rangers were tremendously fast 
and agile. The Ranger’s quarterback, Ronnie 
Carter, went to the air early in the game. 
Carter connected with Marvin Brown 
several times. Marvin Brown, the MVP 
of the game, intercepted three passes 
and ran one back for a touchdown. A 
second touchdown was scored when 
Brown caught a bomb passed by Carter.
The Sabres quarterback, Mike Zelen. 
passed and connected with Jim “Shif:, 
Schiffman, several times, but to no avail. 
The Ranger’s defense held the Sabres to 
just 14 points for the game. Outmaneuver- 
ing and outplaying the Sabres, the Ranger’s 
offense scored 38 points.
The final score of 38-14, Rangers in­
dicates and rightly so, that this was an 
easy victory for the ROTC team, coached 
by Sgt. Adderly.
KS Takes It All
Continued from page seventeen 
In the ensuing TX series, they came right 
back as Brazon hit Pozzi for a big gain 
and then connected with Mike Guido, 
open over the middle, for a TD. KS 
behind in the game by 21-20, scored 
again as Allman hit Pierone with another 
halfback pass. Again, Pierone looked 
down field and this time saw Mieczkowski 
over the middle and hit him with an 18 
yard TD pass with KS regaining the lead. 
KS’s defense held TX again and as Allman 
went back to pass, he hit Mieczkowski, 
all alone on a cross flag pattern, with a 
35 yard TD pass, the score was now 32*21, 
Kappa Sig. Before the cheering of the 
crowd had even died down, TX came back 
as Pozzi went deep and Brazon hit him for 
another touchdown which closed the gap 
to 32-27, Kappa Sigma still in the lead 
with three and a half minutes to play. 
For the third time in the afternoon, All- 
man utilized his halfback, Pierone, and as 
Pierone looked for an open receiver, 
Alan Brown snuck into the left corner 
of the endzone. As TX defenders sought 
vainly to tip the ball, Pierone’s bomb was 
complete, putting the game away for 
Kappa Sigma. The game ended with the 
score of 39-28 as Allman ran out the 
clock. .
Kappa Sigma has reached the finals 
in intermediates three times in the last 
four years, but this time was different. 
They came home with a victory.
EARN $10 FOR TAKING A PHYSICAL EXAM ...
if you are a healthy MALE, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds. Volunteers 
are needed for Bioavailability Testing Program on absorption rates 
of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted under strict 
medical supervision.
-Program involves small blood samples drawn at various 
times throughout the study.
-Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 
9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in Room 335, Hotel Webster 
Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking our physical exam, in­
cluding complete blood chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50- 
$500, depending upon time requirements of the i+udy 
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, INC.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue 682-2022 
-Or come directly to the Physical Exam - 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)
(Do not eat breakfast)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-October 28,1975-Page 19
HOCKEY TEAM WANTS 
MORE COMPETITION
by Dave Girdany
Cincinnati, Kent State, and Villanova 
are just some of the new teams on the 
1975-76 CMU hockey calender. The 
Tartans, along with Pitt and Duquesne,
season’s Rotary Tournament champions 
will ice (field) another strong team. The 
graduation of Mike Kenworthy and John 
Hauser and Rich Eastman’s probable 
absence will definitely hurt the team. 
However, several new players look prom­
ising. The most notable new player ishave dropped out of the WPIHA (Western , Jeff ..preppie.. Jacobs> who is not reaUy
Pennsylvania Intercollegiate Hockey Asso­
ciation) to pursue an independent, but 
more difficult schedule. Other teams facing 
the Tartans this year are the Philadelphia 
Junior Flyers, Denison, Penn State, 
Gannon, St. Vincent, and probably St. 
Bonaventure. The season will end in mid- 
March with a tournament involving Penn 
State, Pitt, Westchester, and CMU.
Under returning coach John Davies, last
new-he played for the Tartans two years 
ago, but left for a year’s sabbatical. The 
most valuable players returning from 
last year are: top defenseman, Larry 
“Pappy” Stuever; leading scorer, Dave 
Cornelius; leading goal scorer, Matt “Mad 
Dog” Goldsmith; Rotary Tournament MVP 
and goalie, Frank Sciulli; and team captain, 
Mike Gallaway. All in all, this season prom­
ises to be the best ever for CMU hockey.
X-COUNTRY DROPS TWO
by Elly Zimmerman
“It was the worst defeat ever suffered in 
my life. It was humiliating, absolutely 
humiliating,” Cross-Country Coach, Gary 
Meckley stated when referring to the loss 
CMU’s cross-country team suffered against 
Case-Western Reserve. The cross-country 
team has been plagued with illnesses. Two 
or three runners have been sick with the 
flu, at every meet.
The season’s record is 8-2, after drop­
ping meets to Case, 50-15, and Allegheny, 
42-18. CMU also ran against Duquesne, 
Bethany, and Thiel and the scores were 
28-31, 26-33, and 28-31, with CMU 
winning all three. Two teams, Washington 
and Jefferson, and John Carroll, forfeited, 
which is an automatic 15-50 score for 
CMU.
On Thursday, October 23, CMU ran 
r>against Thiel. The weather was beautiful
-ERRATA-
Due to a layout error, the following 
paragraphs were unorganized in the article 
titled 'Buggy Comments’, which appeared 
in the October 21st issue of the TARTAN: 
A quick perusal oFthis section of the 
Bylaws reveals that the Finance Committee 
has the power only to question, challenge 
and recommend changes in budgets. 
Despite this, the Finance Committee, 
would not permit the Sweepstakes budget 
to go before the full Senate until the 
Sweepstakes Chairperson agreed to change 
the entry fee. This brings up another 
interesting point since the Sweepstakes 
Chairperson does not have the power to 
change the entry fee. This fee is set in 
the Sweepstakes Rules and can only be 
changed by a majority vote of the buggy 
chairpeople.
In the future, the Finance Committee 
should confine itself to the duties and 
powers granted to it by the Student 
Government Bylaws. It is certain that 
the founders of our Student Government 
did not intend for it to operate as a 
dictatorship.
Due to an oversight, the team called 
Chicken Coupe was omitted from the 
article titled *Franks All-Stars Win Co- 
Rec Finals', which appeared in the October 
21st issue of the TARTAN.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH 
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS ... *.........................................7:00 P.M. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS.............................10:30 A.M. — Science Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Frl.).......................................3:00 P.M. — Tech House
Fathers John Walsh or Bob English 
Tech House 5123 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
and the course was excellent. After the 
runners started, the tension mounted. As 
the stopwatches approached twenty-two 
minutes, everyones’ eyes shifted to the top 
of Flagstaff Hill. The question was, who 
would cross the top of the hill first? How­
ever, what determines the race is the num­
ber of team members that place. Thiel’s 
runner, Homitsky, finished first with a 
23:21 time, Dave Barby from CMU fin­
ished second with 23:24. Third went to 
Thiel. Larry Gordon, a freshman at CMU, 
finished fourth with 23:49. Sixth, seventh, 
and eighth went to CMU’s Daily, 24:28; 
Kauffman 24:42; and Lewandowski, 
25:01. The meet was close, down to the 
final runners. CMU barely won with the 
final score of 28-31.
When asked about the team’s ranking 
in the PAC’s, Coach Meckley stated, “First 
will go to Case-Western Reserve, second to 
Allegheny, and CMU could take third but 
it would be surprising.”
The next meet is away at Hiram on 
November 1st. It is the PAC champion­
ships and will end the season.
BETA WINS 
FINALS
Continued from page eighteen
the Beta defense for their excellent per­
formance against a strong Pika offense. 
Pika was held to one drive for a score and 
managed only one point for the remainder 
of the game. One would have to go back 
quite far to find a game in which Pika 
was held under 10 points. Pika was also 
held to two complete passes over ten yards 
with the double pass almost being non 
existent. Harper was completely stopped 
on the ground after the additional rusher, 
Goodwin, was put in the game. It was 
a totally frustrating game for the offense. 
If not for a good performance by the Pika 
defense, the game would have been a 
Beta slaughter. Twice Pika stopped 
Beta within the five yard line and also 
intercepted a pass in the end zone to 
thwart scores. The Pijca jinx which consist­
ed of four playoff wins over Beta in the 
last six years has ended. This season Beta 
retains the ball for their trophy case.
Photo by Paul Williams 
Women's Varsity Volleyball team practicing for 
their first home game again>t Chatham , Tuesday 
October 28, at 4:30 in the women's gym.
WATER POLO RESULTS
Through Thursday, October 23rd
AWinLossSwamp Man10
Fringe20
Muff Divers01
Pika21
Theta Xi02
Kappa Sigma01
B
PK (Fighting) Turtles 20
Dolphins20
Beta Theta Pi01
Water Nymphs02
Down Town Dunks 11
Titan tic01
CMU SHOOTS 
EM DOWN
by Mark Smith
In beating Washington and 
Tefferson 1270-1192 the rifle team dis­
played some definite potential. Last 
Friday’s score was nearly as good as the 
team’s high the previous year.
The five team members that 
contributed to the overall score were all 
veteran shooters. Smith with a 272 and 
Strom with a 261 were high scorers for 
CMU. W&J’s high individual score was a 
250. Williams, Beebe, and Klemencic also 
made top five for CMU.
Two new members turned in encouraging 
performances at the match. Azinger
turned in a 237 while Pontius was only 
one point behind. These two can be 
expected to improve considerably by mid­
season, providing the team with more 
depth than it has had in several years
________Jyt TRis Down_____________
Table Tennis: Schedules are now available 
in IM Office.
Soccer: Sign up on the IM Bulletin Board 
for practice time. Practice will start Oct. 31 
and be continued to Nov. 4. Matches will 
begin Wednesday, Nov. 5. The Commis­
sioner is Pat Wallace from SAE.
Chess: Check IM Bulletin Board for match 
schedules.
Bowling: Check IM Bulletin Board for this 
season’s schedule. Matches will be at the 
Strand Alley on Forbes Avenue. Practice 
time should be set up by the teams at the 
alley. Season will begin Nov. 1. The Com­
missioner is Kevin Clark this season.
Six-person Volleyball — Matches will begin 
Oct. 29.
SERA-TEC 
BIOLOGI CALS
ANNOUNCES 
THE OPENING OF
EVENING HOURS
Monday thru Thursday 8:45 am to 7 pm 
Friday 8:45 am to 4 pm ' 
Evening Hours begin Monday, Nov. 3
You can earn up to $80.00 per month 
in as little as 4 hours per week
FOR MORE INFORMATION. CALL
682-3190
3407 FORBES AVE. IN OAKLAND (Next to Arby's)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—THE TARTAN-October 28,1975
DAVE MASON 
SPLIT COCONUT
including:
Two Guitar Lovers 
She's A Friend/You Can Lose It 
Give Me A Reason Why/Long Lost Friend
Dan FogelbergCaptured Angel
including;
Next Time/Below The Surface/Old Tennessee 
Comes And Goes/These Days/Man In The Mirror
StiU csutyif, ajfte'i ail tUeAe. yeaAA
including:
My Little Town 
Gone At Last/Have A Goojd Time 
Silent Eyes/I Do It For Your Love
including:
My Little Town 
I Only Have Eyes For Y<5u / 99 Miles From LA. 
Looking For The Right One 
I Believe (When I Fall In Love It Will Be Forever)
PC 33700
PINK FLOYD WISH YOU WERE HERE
including:
Shine On You Crazy Diamond 
welcome 010 n® wacninc 
Have A Cigar/Wish You Were Here
The Flying 
Burrito Bros.FLYING AGAIN
including:
Easy To Get On/Building Fires/Hot Burrito =3 
Why Baby Why/You Left The Water Running
herbie hancock man-child
including: 
Heartbeat/The Trait or/Sun Touch 
Steppin'ln It/Hang Up Your Hang Ups
TED NUGENT
including:
Stranglehold / Storm troopin''
Jdst What The Doctor Ordered 
Snakeskin Cowboys/Motor City (Madhouse
RAMSEY LEWISDONTiTFEEL GOOD
including:
Fish Bite/Spider Man/Can’t Function 
Something About You 
ThatfeThe Way Of The World
Taj Mahal MUSIC KEEPS ME TOGETHER
including:
My Ancestors/Further On Down The Road 
Why?... And We Repeat Why?... And We Repeat! 
Aristocracy/West Indian Revelation
DRIVE ON
including:
By Tonight/Monte Carlo/Love Now 
Here We Are/IHTeH You Something
PC 33801
Bruce Springsteen 
Born To Run
including;
Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out/Jungieland 
Backstreets/Thunder Road / She's The One
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN:THE WILD, THE INNOCENT & THEE STREET SHUFFLE
including:
Rosatita Come Out Tonight)/Incident On 57th Street 
Kitty s Back/Wild Billy s Circus Story 
4th Of July. Asbury Park (Sandy)
Bruce SpringsteenStephen Stills Stills
including:
Myth Of Sisyphus 
My Favorite Changes/Shuffle Just As Bad 
Turn Back The Pages/As I Come Of Age
including:
Blinded By The Light/Spirit In The Night 
Lost In The Flood /For You 
It's Hard lo Be A Saint In The City
PC 31903
Loggins & Messina "So Fine”
including:
I Like H Like That/Splish Splash 
Wake Up Little Susie 
Hello Mary Lou/A Lover's Question
Labelle*Phoenix
including:
Messin With My Mind/Slow Burn 
Far As We Felt Like Goin /Take The Night Off 
Action Time/Cosmic Dancer
Toys in the Attic
including:
Waft This Way/No More No More 
Toys In The Attic/Sweet Emotion 
You See Me Crying
including: 
At Seventeen 
In The Winter
When The Party’s Over
Light A Light
Bright Lights 
And Promises
COLsmBi A-EPiCEilHOP"
are featuritg a
$6.98
DOWN TO
$3.99 rfUbEiaa OCC. 27¿ALE...
