The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 6 Carnegie Mellon University October 6,1987
FEATURES......Page 17
CMU collects awards and “The Raven,” 
or not...
SPORTS........Page 28
The football team squeaks out another 
close one
Thefts Plague 
Hill Dorms
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter 
Recently, there has been a string of 
thefts in the east section of the Hill 
Dorms. The thefts started two weeks 
ago, and the places affected were Ros- 
elawn Terrace Apartments, Spirit 
House, and Woodlawn Apartments.
The theft that took place at Roselawn 
happened in the afternoon of Septem­
ber 22. An intruder entered one of the 
apartments and took a 12" color televi­
sion set and a CPX Dual Cassette Port­
able Radio. One of the residents was 
sleeping at the time. The theft occurred 
between 1:30 and 4:15 pm.
The following day, another robbery 
was reported; this time from the Spirit 
House, located next to Roselawn. This 
one took place between 4 and 6 pm. The 
valuables taken included a portable 
B&W television set and a jewelry box, 
estimated value totalling $250.
James J. LaPaglia, the Chief of CMU 
Security, observes that these two inci­
dents are alarmingly alike. In both 
cases, there were no signs of forced 
entry, an unlocked door, similar valu­
ables stolen, and similar time and areas.
In the Spirit incident, a telephone 
repairman was apparently working in 
the basement the morning of the rob­
bery. Supposedly one of the house­
mates let him inside. When questioned 
later, he claims to have had nothing to 
do with the theft. LaPaglia is neverthe­
less concerned about imposters intrud­
ing into the residence houses and apart­
ments. He warns “Don’t let anyone in, 
I unless they show you ID. They’re 
suposed to have a photo ID with 
them...not locking doors is also a very 
unsafe condition.”
No suspects have been apprehended; 
campus police reports “nothing defi­
nite yet.”
DU Brothers Injured in Fight with ATO
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor 
In an assault that could end in court, two 
Delta Upsilon (DU) brothers were injured by 
unidentified Alpha Tau Omega (ATO) broth­
ers while trying to enter ATO’s porch pledge 
night, Friday, September 29.
Bill Richardson, a senior, received lacera­
tions to his right eye and right side of his face. 
Evan Klein, a junior, was hit twice in the nose. 
Klein’s broken nose might require surgery. 
Both refused to comment.
Richardson and Klein were members of a 
group of 30 to 40 DU brothers and pledges 
going to other houses in a pledge night “tradi­
tion.” On pledge night, about half the houses
get all their brothers and pledges together and 
go to the other fraternities and sororities. 
When they get to another house, they make a 
lot of noise and charge the porch. After attain-
“It was a fight and they lost.” 
—Gary Como
ing the porch, they “usually just get a beer and 
leave,” said DU President Eric Dusenbury.
According to Dusenbury, DU started out 
with about 70 people but were separated be­
fore they got to ATO. When half the group did
arrive at ATO, they were told to stay off the 
porch. Ignoring the warning, DU charged the 
Morewood-side steps. They were stopped by 
ATO brothers. When DU charged again, ATO 
started punching. This time DU retreated to 
ATO’s grass where smaller skirmishes broke 
out again.
“I don’t know why they did it; it doesn't 
make any sense to me...It pretty much is as­
sault and battery, no matter how you look at 
it,” said Dusenbury.
This incident occurred between 10 and 11:15 
pm, according to a Campus Security report. 
Earlier that same evening, ATO and Pi Kappa 
Alpha had charged DU's porch together.
continued on page 5
One Hot Car...
Firemen extinguish a burning car on Margaret Morrison Street near Donner Hall last Thursday at 8:08 pm. The driver was 
not affiliated with the University; he pulled over there to avoid traffic. There were no injuries.
DryRush: Some Fraternities Not Affected,Others Complain of Inconsistency
By JEFF HAVRILLA
Tartan Staffwriter 
Friday, September 25, marked the official 
end of Carnegie Mellon University’s 1987 
fall fraternity rush. Although there was some 
concern about the consequences of imple­
menting a two-week dry rush period, its 
impact was not felt in terms of the number of 
students that pledged.
There were mixed reactions to this year’s 
dry rush policy, however. Kappa Sigma 
president Jim Gard felt, “Because wet rush 
preceded [the dry] rush, we had a period of 
t wet rush to show them what a fraternity party 
was like.” Eric Swenson, president of Theta 
Xi, felt similarly: “Some people thought the 
stronger fraternities got stronger.”
Others, however, saw the dry/wet msh mix 
as more of a mixed blessing. Keith Stopen, 
president of Pi Lamda Phi, was more critical 
of the inconsistencies in this year’s rush poli­
cies. “Even though our house did not do as 
well this year in the number of students we
rushed,” stated Stopen, “I don’t think dry msh 
was a factor. We were much more selective in 
terms of the quality of the pledges we received. 
It was not a critical year for our house in terms 
of numbers. An all-dry msh next year would 
not bother us in the least. In fact, it might be 
preferable to the way things were run this year. 
By alternating the dry and wet rushes the way 
we did, many freshmen figured that there was 
no reason to come to the dry parties. But it is 
during the dry parties that we [the fraternities] 
are best able to get to know our future brothers.” 
Phi Kappa Theta president A1 Margarella 
went even further. He stated, “My personal 
opinion is that dry msh made no difference in 
the number or quality of the students who 
pledged. Although the wet msh draws the stu­
dents over in greater numbers, dry msh is the 
time to actually meet the freshmen we’d like to 
msh. After all, during the wet parties brothers 
and guests alike are more interested in relaxing 
and having a good time than worrying about 
actual pledging.”
Pi Kappa Alpha’s president, Eric Tenbus, 
added, “Nobody liked the dry msh this year. 
The rules were too vague and too much ‘rule- 
breaking’ went on. Three fraternities gave out 
bids before the msh ‘officially’ began.” Eric 
Dusenbury, president of Delta Upsilon, con­
curred, “It was not really a dry msh, this year. 
It wasn’t a wet msh, but there was alcohol.” 
The number of bids that went out remained 
fairly constant, as compared to previous years. 
One notable exception was Kappa Delta Rho, 
which went from 20 pledges last year to only
9 this year. President Bryan Roessler ex­
plained, “Since it’s only our second year rush­
ing, it’s not certain if it [dry msh] had anything 
to do with the decline.” Dusenbury felt if a 
decline were seen, it was due more to demo­
graphic changes. He stated, “It seems as if 
there are fewer freshmen this year. In fact, 
there’s been a general downward trend in the 
number of pledges we’ve seen for the past 
couple of years. It’s not indicative of this
continued on page 3
ITC and IBM 
Begin Contract 
Negotiations
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
The Information Technology Center 
(ITC) and IBM have begun negotiating 
a new contract to replace the current 
one, which expires at the end of the year. 
This new contract will have the effect of 
“continuing the CMU/IBM relationship 
indefinitely,” according to ITC’s direc­
tor, James Morris.
This contract, the third between ITC 
d IBM, will be less detailed than its 
predecessors. The 1982 and 1985 agree­
ments dealt primarily with development 
of the Andrew computer system. This 
deal will allow for various other re­
search projects.
The research that Morriscited involves
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—October 6,1987
//«Tu iwni>\v it*¦»«*¦ mmzj m wwn^f tn#f n9#
Senate Votes To Ban 
Imports From Iran
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The Senate voted 
unanimously to place an embargo on all im­
ports from Iran.
Iranian oil exported to the U.S. accounts for 
more than 90 percent of all trade between the 
countries.
The legislation to ban imports, offered by 
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole, a Kansas 
Republican, comes as an amendment to the 
Defense Authorization Bill that spells out 
defense spending for the new fiscal year.
The Commerce Department data on oil 
imports revealed that Iran is the second-largest 
supplier of oil to the U.S., despite the two 
nations' recent hostilities in the Persian Gulf.
In July, Iran supplied the U.S. with 19.65 
million barrels of crude. All but about 520,000 
barrels was light crude.
More than half of the oil entered the U.S. via 
the Virgin Islands, a U.S. possession in the 
Caribbean.
Russians Tested New 
Missiles Near Hawaii
WASHINGTON (AP) — Despite U.S. pro­
tests, the Soviet Union conducted two tests 
this week of a new long-range ballistic missile 
by targeting an area of the Pacific Ocean about 
500 miles north of Hawaii, the Pentagon and 
State Department said Thursday.
One of the tests was an apparent failure, but 
the second ended with dummy warheads 
splashing into the Pacific Ocean closer to U.S. 
soil than ever before, officials added.
“We protested this," said State Department 
spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley, explaining the 
Russians had informed the United States on 
Sept. 26 through diplomatic channels of their 
plans.
“We made known to the Soviets through 
diplomatic channels our serious concern about 
missile tests being conducted so close to U.S. 
soil. There is always an element of danger in 
tests like these.”
Fred Hoffman, the Pentagon's chief spokes­
man, said the Soviets had originally indicated 
an intent to “bracket” the Hawaiian Islands 
with their test shots. The Soviets warned ships 
to stay away from a large trapezoid-shaped 
target area about 500 miles northwest of 
Hawaii and from a smaller, circular area only 
about 360 southwest of Hawaii.
If the Soviets had fired a missile toward the 
second target area, it would have actually 
flown over the 50th state, Hoffman added.
Major Earthquake 
Shakes S. California
LOS ANGELES (AP) — At least seven 
people were left dead and 100 injured after a 
strong earthquake and a dozen aftershocks 
struck Southern California Thursday morn­
ing, cracking buildings and freeways and 
touching off small fires.
There were extensive reports of minor dam­
age within a 20-mile radius of the quake’s 
epicenter 15 miles south of Pasadena. There 
did not appear to be widespread major damage 
from the tremor, which knocked out power to 
downtown Los Angeles for nearly an hour.
Initial reports of the quake’s magnitude esti­
mated it at 6.1 on the Richter scale.
Los Angeles fire officials said that within the 
city there were at least 24 injuries and two 
deaths, a woman killed by the collapse of a 
wall of a parking structure at California State 
University and a person electrocuted in a 
church fire.
Los Angeles Fire Chief Don Manning said 
the department had responded to 46 fires 
caused by natural gas leaks, 26 structural fires, 
36 heart attacks, 21 elevators with people 
stuck in them and 14 traffic accidents.
Key Senators Oppose 
Nomination of Bork
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The Supreme 
Court nomination of Robert Bork was thrown 
into jeopardy when key moderate Republican 
Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and three 
Southern Democrats said they will vote 
against him.
All four senators had remained undecided 
throughout the Senate Judiciary Committee 
hearings that ended Wednesday, and they 
represent groups of senators whose support is 
pivotal to the success of the nomination. The 
trend threatens to derail President Reagan’s 
most important appointment to the nation’s 
highest court and to deal the President a devas­
tating political setback.
Congressional Republicans reacted by beat­
ing a strategic retreat. They said they would 
duck an up-or-down vote on the nomination in 
the Judiciary Committee next week and in­
stead support sending the nomination to tlje 
Senate floor without a recommendation. - 
But they continued to maintain that the 
nomination battle is “winnable.” Reagan ap­
peared before reporters late Thursday after­
noon to insist that he wouldn't withdraw 
Bork’s name, and that the nomination wasn’t 
lost. The President also said that Bork didn’t 
give any indication, in a conversation at the 
White House Thursday, that he wanted to 
withdraw his name. f
Mayor Caliguiri Has v 
Possibly Fatal Illness
PITTSBURGH — Mayor Richard Caliguiri 
disclosed Friday that he suffers from a rare and 
incurable disease, but said he will continue to 
be mayor and may consider re-election in 
1989.
The illness, amyloidosis, causes the body t3f 
produce more proteins than are necessary. 
This overproduction can cause irreversible 
damage to vital organs and possibly death.
Caliguiri said at a press conference that the 
disorder has affected a portion of his heart. He 
has lost about 10 pounds and must avoid 
overexerting himself.
He has been mayor for 10 years.
a
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
Two great ways to cruise through the semester.
The hand on the left is poised on what could be the most essential part 
of your education.
A Macintosh™ computer.
And the hand on the right is gripping pure, simple, unadulter­
ated fun. *
A Honda Scooter. One we re giving away.
All you have to do for a chance to drive it away is visit your campus 
computer center and fill out an entry form. While you're there, take a 
Macintosh for a test drive.
Because Macintosh can help you write term papers, categorize 
elements of the periodic table, plot the rise and fall of pork-belly 
prices, compile computer code, and talk to other computers.
And the first 250 people on campus who get behind a mouse, so 
to speak, will receive a free Apple* memo board.
So head over to your campus computer center today. And ask 
about (rnr Student Financing Program.
W ho knows? \bu may soon find yourself cruising a little farther 
than vou cxoccttxl.
ft Test drive a Macintosh. You may ride away on a Honda Scooter.
Enter September 1 - October 16 
CMU Computer Store
HONDA
____
l\ registered students and faculty are eligible ft) win Odds of winning vary depending 
. The Macintosh i> a trademark of Apple O imputer. Inc Elite is a trademark of Honda
—————

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 3
photo by Glenn Schuster
Work continues on the controversial GSIA trailers as Physical Plant constructed a 
fence around the Shakespearean stage.
Dry Rush Causes Concern
Elliott, Keating Speak at Senate 
About Updated University Plans
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
Director of University Planning, Patrick 
Keating and Vice President of Enrollment, 
William Elliott presented campus plans at the 
Student Senate meeting last week. They de­
scribed the changes that have been made to the 
master plan since last summer.
The new dorm, which would have been lo­
cated on the IM field next to Donner Hall, will 
now be located behind Donner facing the new 
athletic field. Keating explained that the dor­
mitory would not fit in the space they had left, 
and the move leaves more room for the IM 
field. The new dorm will hold 260 students and 
should be complete for occupancy by Fall of 
1989. Included in the dorm will be a dining 
facility with nearly the capacity of Kiltie Cafe. 
The cafeteria will be located on the eastern end 
of the dorm towards Forbes Avenue. The com­
plete dorm is expected to cost $13 million.
On the north side of the athletic field will be 
a new parking garage with 260 parking spaces. 
It will be three or four stories high and will 
contain the stands for the field. An extension to
the parking garage will be possible to increase 
the number of spaces to 700. The cost for the 
combination garage and stadium is $6 million.
The parking garage and dormitory will help 
to get the bearings on the athletic field. The 
field will have an artificial surface. The intra­
mural field will be large enough for two soft­
ball fields and have lighting for evening use. 
However, Elliott made commitments for nei­
ther the lighting or the artificial surface. The 
total cost for this would be an additional $6 
million. The present stands will begin to be 
dismantled this December after the football 
season. Elliott explained that the dismantling 
shouldn’t take too long, “since they came on
16 wheelers they can go the same way.”
Other plans remaining are the University 
Center, the theater, and the ravine. One Sena­
tor asked where the Naval Reserve Center 
was, pointing to the map. Elliott pointed out 
that, “to build a theater we need to own that 
building and tear it down.”
The Student Senate meets tonight in the 
Wherrett room at 7 pm.
Crime and Incident Report: 9/24 to 10/1
9/24 THEFT 8:36 am Cigarette machine 
broken into on first floor of Baker Hall. Ap­
proximately $248 stolen.
9/24 THEFT 7:43 pm Victim lost pop-off 
wheel cover from Sunbird while parked in 
Area 16 behind the Bureau of Mines.
9/25 THEFT 12:33 pm Blue nylon knapsack 
stolen form Tartan Grill. $187 loss. .
9/25 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 9:55 pm 
First row seats uprooted from floor in Doherty 
Hall 2315.
9/25 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:45 pm 
Persons unknown pried window pane free 
from 312 Margaret Morrison. Nothing miss­
ing or destroyed.
9/26 RECOVERY 9:01 am Recovered 
CMU Cushman cart from below Panther 
Hollow Bridge.
9/26 THEFT BY DECEPTION 3:20 pm 
White male wearing blue shorts and white tank 
top, asked student for money because he ran 
out of gas on Bigelow Blvd. Student called Se­
curity. Security responded, found perpetrator 
with student in Skibo parking lot. Student had 
$20 from MAC Machine, ready to give it to 
perpetrator. Security arrested perpetrator. 
Perpetrator taken to Public Safety Building;
continued from page I
year’s dry rush.”
The pledge numbers themselves look as fol­
lows: Beta had 14 pledges two years ago, the 
same number last year, and dropped by only 
one pledge this year. Delta Upsilon had a 
gradual decl ine. with 32 pledges two years ago 
relative to 26 last year. They pushed up to 29 
pledges this year. Kappa Sigma usually sends 
out between 10 and 20 bids during fall rush. 
They sent out 15 this year. Phi Kappa Theta 
sent out 18 bids and received 16 pledges, as
compared to 21 pledges initiated last year. Pi 
Kappa Alpha did slightly better this year with 
20 pledges, gaining three more than last year. 
Pi Lambda Phi's pledge roster included 21 
students two years ago, 17 last year, and 
dropped to 9 freshman for this year. Theta Xi 
has remained constant for the last three years 
with 23 pledges rushed each year.
Alpha Tau Omega, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Delta 
Tau Delta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, 
and Sigma Tau Gamma were unavailable for 
comment.
hearing Monday.
9/26 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:25 pm 
Six individuals shaking stop sign in More- 
wood Gardens parking lot. Shook sign loose 
and chipped base. Cited for disorderly conduct 
and criminal mischief.
9/26 ARREST 11:36 pm Vehicle traveling 
down Forbes at a high rate of speed and ran red 
light at Forbes and More wood. Officer tried to 
stop it; vehicle ignored officer. Vehicle hit 
student on moped at 5030 Forbes—student 
taken to Presby and treated for leg injury. 
Warrant issued for driver of vehicle. Driver is 
from Carnegie.
9/26 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 1:13 pm Sus­
picious black male on porch of house next to 
Woodlawn Apartments looking in back door. 
Man was young black male, early twenties, 
close cropped hair, wearing long red rugby 
shirt with three yellow stripes, bluejeans, and 
running shoes. Security searched for him; no 
results.
9/27 PROPERTY DAMAGE 3:29 am 
Flood in A Tower Doherty Apartment lounge. 
Security met by R A and another student. Stu­
dent reported two white males running from
continued on page 5
Election ’88 News
7^A![S/ /ofsrfr?
Robertson Enters Race; 
Confronts Protestors
NEW YORK (AP) — Longtime televi­
sion evangelist Pat Robertson, confronted 
by chanting protesters, entered the 1988 
Republican presidential race Thursday 
with a pledge to “campaign for all people” 
and be “strong for freedom.”
Robertson declared his candidacy from a 
platform in front of the Brooklyn brown- 
stone where he lived briefly in 1959 when 
he was a young minister. Several days ago, 
he resigned as a Baptist preacher and also 
severed ties to the Christian Broadcasting 
Network, the religious ministry that made 
him famous.
Several hundred people, about half of 
them black, stood in front of the platform 
and he often had to struggle to be heard over 
the chants of “Down with Pat." His sup­
porters countered, “We back Pat.” 
Robertson has said he has raised more 
than $11 million for his campaign, a figure 
that would place him second only to Vice 
President George Bush.
Dukakis Aide Gave 
Biden Tapes to Press
BOSTON (DJ) — Michael S. Dukakis, 
governor of Massachusetts and a Demo­
cratic presidential candidate, said his cam­
paign manager, John Sasso, personally 
gave videotapes to the press that showed 
that Sen. Joseph Biden, who has since with­
drawn as a Democratic presidential candi­
date, was quoting other speeches without 
attribution.
Dukakis said Sasso offered to resign but 
that Dukakis had refused the offer. Sasso is, 
however, taking a leave of absence for a 
few weeks.
Dukakis said, “As a candidate, I have to 
take responsibility and 1 do so. This was a 
very, very serious error of judgment.” 
Dukakis said Sasso told him yesterday 
afternoon that he had given tapes to the
New York Times and the Des Moines 
-Register and to NBC television.
Dukakis previously said none of his staff 
was involved and threatened to fire anyone 
on his staff if he learned they were in­
volved.
Schroeder Decides 
To Stay Out of Race
DENVER (AP) — U.S. Rep. Patricia 
Schroeder said she will not seek the 1988 
Democratic presidential nomination.
Schroeder, 47, told a crowd gathered in 
the city's Civic Center Park: “I learned a 
lot about America and 1 learned a lot about 
Pat Schroeder (this summer). That's why I 
will not be a candidate for president. 1 
could not figure out how to run.”
At this point she stopped, breaking into 
tears and wiping her face with a handker­
chief. Then she went on, “There must be a 
way, but I haven't figured it out yet.”
“I could not bear to turn every human 
contact into a photo opportunity,” she said.
Election Scorecard: 
Republicans
•Vice President George Bush (will an­
nounce October 12)
•Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole of 
Kansas (will announce November 9) 
•Former Gov. Pete du Pont of Delaware 
•Former Secretary of State Alexander M. 
Haig, Jr.
•TV evangelist Pat Robertson 
•Rep. Jack Kemp of New York
Democrats
•Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachu­
setts
•Sen. Paul Simon of Illinois 
•Gov. Bruce Babbit of Arizona 
•Rep. Richard Gephardt of Missouri 
•Rev. Jesse Jackson (will announce in 
October)
•Sen. Albert Gore, Jr. of Tennessee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—October 6,1987
Student Senate Meeting Minutes
Meeting called to order 7:15 pm
Senators present: Berger, Christina, 
Clark, Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar, Goldstein, 
Graupera, Hausman, Jainchill, Kombrek, 
Levine, Levy, Liu. Mukherjee, Steppel, 
Trinh, Trull, Zapf.
Absent: Berkowitz, Bostin (exc), Green­
berg, Sherlock (exc).
Ex-Officio Members Present: Cox, Ro- 
bitshek, Skolkin, Matsko.
Audience Participation: Bill Elliott and 
Pat Keating discussed layout and develop­
ment of the campus. 10-15 year plan in­
cludes: new University Center, new walk­
way across campus, rotated football field, 
new theater, new dorm, ravine near Dough­
erty Hall, colonades along narrower Cut. 2- 
5 year plan: Stadium down in December, 2 
new dorms by Fall ’89, 3 story parking 
garage on far Skibo parking lot (Midway) 
built in two stages, rotated athletic field, 
new University Center construction starts 
Fall ’89 and will take 18-24 mos. Models 
are in Fine Arts building. Student input 
needed.
President: Andrew Robitshek: Home­
coming barbeque on cut. Senate will split 
cost with SDC. Students needed to help 
with SAMS-Students Against Multiple 
Sclerosis. Article on what Senate has done 
in next Tartan. Meeting on Tech House 
Thursday October 15,4:30 in Blue Confer­
ence Room 6th floor. Need to decide how to 
improve it and where to relocate it. Need 
help from students with fundraising- 
$250,000.
SDC: none.
GSO: none.
IFC: none.
Student Affairs: Dean Cox: Faculty 
member Dr. Fetkovich will go to Senate 
meetings once a month. GSO rep. on Fac­
ulty Council-Student Affairs committee.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: none.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: none.
Academic Affairs: Celeste Clark: 
Spring Andrew class scheduled for Jrs. and 
Srs., 7 wks, 1.5 units, 5 sections. Letters out 
to faculty for “Last Lecture Series,” Oct. 
20, Nov. 10, Dec. 1, Gregg Hall. Read 
proposal for Jan. term in Senate office. 
Student Core Advisory Committee meet­
ings starting soon. Art course fee investi­
gated and justifications for amount found. 
Celeste attended Educational Affairs (Fac. 
Sen.) meeting on 9/24 concerning question 
of putting failing grades on transcripts once 
class is taken again.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: 
none.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Mukherjee: No meeting this Sat.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: 
Meeting Monday 4:30.
Rules: Shep Bostin: Definition of reli­
gion discussed at last meeting.
Old Business: none.
New Business: Table Constitution.
Changes made.
Points of Discussion: Comments needed 
on list of ideas from retreat, passed out at 
meeting. Trustees Board roster on office 
bulletin board next week.
Announcements: Rules Thurs. 6-7 pm. 
Senate next Tuesday 7 pm.
Meeting adjourned 9:00 pm.
SLEPT WITH ANYONE NEW 
LATELY?
7^A Mmsum & mmmf
THERE ARE FOUR DIFFERENT SLEEPING BAG 
WEEKENDS THIS FALL:
OCTOBER 11-12 (CIT/MCS) 
OCTOBER 25-26 (H&SS) 
NOVEMBER 8-9 (CFA)
NOVEMBER 15-16 (CIT/MCS)
YOUR NAME.
DORM_____
ROOM #____
BOX#
MAJOR
PHONE
CIT/MCS WEEKEND OCTOBER 11-12 
I WOULD LIKE TO HOST______STUDENTS
____I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
H&SS WEEKEND OCTOBER 25-26
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST_________STUDENTS
___I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
CFA WEEKEND NOVEMBER 8-9
I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
___I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
CIT/MCS WEEKEND NOVEMBER 15-18
I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY
Please return to the Admissions office or phone x2082.
Escort, Shuttle Services Extended •
By DAVID LEVY
Tartan Managing Editor
In recent memos to the Carnegie Mellon 
community, Sergeant William Ricci of Cam­
pus Police announced some extensions of the 
Escort and Shuttle services. The first an­
nounced that an additional shuttle bus was 
added during rush hours. The second was a 
new pick-up from the Hunt Library right after 
it closes Sunday through Thursday.
The secohd shuttle bus added during the 
morning and evening rush hours changes the 
shuttle schedule so that a bus leaves every 
fifteen minutes from Skibo between 6:45 am 
and 10:15 am and 3:30 pm and 6:30 pm 
Monday through Friday. This is in addition to 
the regular schedule of approximately every
thirty minutes from 7:00 am until 11:30 pm.
The second addition to the Escort/Shuttle 
service has been a special run that leaves from 
Hunt Library at approximately 3:05 am, Sun­
day through Thursday. The Escort is picking 
up on the Frew Street side of Hunt. This 
eliminates the necessity of students having to 
walk from the Library to Skibo Hall in inclem^T 
ent weather.
This year also brought some changes to the 
actual route of the shuttle. Previously the bus 
would make a turn onto Ellsworth Avenue at 
the comer of South Aiken anbd Ellsworth. 
Now, the Shuttle continues up South Aiken 
and turns at Fifth Avenue. This change was to 
allow for the new housing contracted for the 
over-abundance of Freshman this year. ^
ITC, IBM Negotiating Third Contract
continued from page 1
videodisc technology and a “personalized 
electronic newspaper.” The video technology 
would use a multi-media workstation that 
could be available in three to five years. The 
electronic newspaper would “add journalistic 
judgment to the bulletin board system.”
One reason for this change is the maturity of 
the Andrew project. “I believe IBM will an­
nounce Andrew as a product this year,” said 
Morris. He bases his belief on a meeting in 
November 1986 in which IBM stated inten­
tions of marketing the Andrew system to col­
leges in 1987.
From IBM’s point of view, the new contract 
will be worth approximately $5.5 million a 
year. This figure includes employees and 
equipment supplied by IBM’s Academic In­
formation Systems (ACIS) division. Morris
said the first three-year contract was estimated 
to be worth $20 million.
Of ITC’s 40 full-time staff, 33 are paid by 
IBM. Under the present contract, 10 of these 
are to be IBM employees. The actual numbed 
ranges from six to nine, according to Morris. 
Seven additional employees are funded by a 
National Science Foundation grant.
According to Vice President for Business 
Affairs, Fred Rogers, IBM has donated to 
CMU over $10 million in equipment.
The new contract will be negotiated for IBM 
by Walter Schmik, based in Milford, Conn. 
CMU will be represented by Morris and Vic^ 
President for Academic Services William Y. 
Arms.
The contract, whose length has not yet been 
determined, will be signed by President Cyert 
sometime in December.
He was just this guy in 
my class with cool- 
looking hair. I never 
thought we had any­
thing in common— 
until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta­
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple, Class of ’87
HO APPOMTMEMT
CHPCCTftTitnSPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
l TheThe---------------------
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only S25.00only $ 1 3.00only $8.00
Complete with written 
guaranteeComplete with shampoo 
and blow styleCut only
r
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~SÄVE~$2.Ö0
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED!
Great Styles Start at ... .~Gjt£HTEKPCcnmtns
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
Som eFraat nFissF 
eNiaAA Ffs AFissF ciad 
,OhCOpt laAF ,ccINsComplete with shampoo 4 styling
Offer Expires 
October 31687-3500
*>
<

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 5
Crime and Incident Report Con’t
continued from page 3
area. Security found perpetrators were stu­
dents visiting students in B Tower. Visitors 
broke water pipe while playing pool. Floor, 
tile, rug, and pool table damaged.
9/27 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 7:35 am Per 
son unknown painted “This is a crime” on ends 
c Volum trailers in red letters and “Save the 
wall” on trailer number 3.
9/27 ASSAULT 4:06 pm DU brothers at­
tempted to enter ATO patio. Upon entering 
patio, ATO brother started punching DU 
brothers. DU pledge struck in right eye, re­
ceived lacerations.
9/28 ARREST AT CHATHAM 4:18 pm 
Chatham police arested CMU student who fell 
c !wn on Quad. Student appeared intoxicated. 
Student employed by WYEP, got intoxicated 
while working, issued citation by Chatham 
police for public drunkenness, taken home by 
friend.
9/28 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 1:23 pm SEI 
parking garage, unknown persons tried to 
remove right taillight of complaintant’s 
Chevy Celebrity.
*/29 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS 9:41 
am Routine patrol saw persons campaigning
for Lyndon LaRouche on campus. Officer told 
them they had to get permission from Student 
Affairs. Permission granted by Cox and Wal­
ter.
9/29 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 9:15 pm Un 
known persons broke out left rear vent win­
dow of silver Toyota Corolla Tercel in Clyde 
Street parking lot. Glove box opened and 
contents threw around car. Nothing else re­
ported damaged or removed.
10/1 THEFT 10:53 am Unknown persons 
took three pictures from wall of Morewood 
Gardens Cafeteria. Pictures titled “Soup,” 
“Salad,” and “Bread.” $125 approximate 
value.
10/1 FIRE 8:08 pm Car on fire in driveway 
of Tech House. Victim no affiliation with 
University; pulled over to avoid traffic. Fire 
extinguished, taken away by Craig’s Towing.
Be aware...
On the early evening of Tuesday, September 
29, an attempted rape was reported in the Sch- 
enley Park area.
An 18-year old female (not a CMU student) 
was jogging behind the nature museum in 
Schenley Park around 6:30 pm when a man 
surprised her from behind. He threatened her 
with a piece of broken glass and told her to 
undress. Fortunately, another jogger in the 
area saw this and came to help but the man got 
away after a chase.
The man is described as a black male, about 
25 years old, 6 feet tall, 190 lbs., muscular 
build, dark skin, flat nose, round face, with 
short hair. He was wearing a black jacket with 
“NIKE” gold lettering at the time.
The campus police warns students who 
might jog in that area to be cautious.
ATO and DU Fight on Pledge Night
continued from pagel
Dusenbury said his fraternity allowed ATO 
on their porch peacefully, so he didn’t 
expect any resistance when they went to 
ATO later.
Ben Miller, President of ATO didn't 
agree. “When we came up on their porch, 
they weren’t letting us up; they were stop­
ping us from coming up on their’s and we 
were just sort of pushing a little. Pika was 
with us—so when Pika pushed behind us, 
DU couldn’t hold us and we went up on 
their porch and yelled around and then left. 
There were no incidents there.”
Dusenbury stated that ATO was unpro­
voked and no DU brothers threw any 
punches. Again, Miller did not agree. 
Miller said, “That’s a total lie—either he 
doesn’t know or what, but that’s a lie.” 
Gary Como, Treasurer of ATO and a wit­
ness to the incident, concurred. “One of the 
reasons one of the kids [a DU brother] up 
there got hurt is they jumped somebody 
from behind—one of our pledges—and 
another pledge hit him because he jumped 
a guy from behind.”
“Eric Polkas [an ATO brother] got hit in 
the head, another one of our pledges got hit 
in the head—he was a couple guys back. 
And the guy who is bringing charges 
against one of our pledges was, we think, 
one of the guys who was holding one of our 
pledges when he was hit; he was actually 
holding one of the guys and that’s when one 
of our guys went against him.
“DU caused trouble: they came up on the 
porch. We told them not to and they pushed 
their way up. So if they’re going to do
something like that and something hap­
pens, that’s too bad,” said Miller.
Dusenbury said he felt the aggression 
stemmed in part from DU’s handing out 
bids early. Two weeks ago, DU and Sigma 
Mu were penalized by the Council of Fra­
ternity Presidents for giving bids before the 
official start of Dry Rush. Miller said the 
two incidents were unrelated.
When asked who would pay for Klein s 
medical attention, Dusenbury said ATO 
would. Miller, on the other hand, said he 
initially had agreed to pay, but on further 
examination “we don’t feel we are obliged 
to pay those bills.”
Ron Campana, Greek Advisor, said, “All 
I can say is the matter is still being 
investigated...It’s unfortunate what hap­
pened but I guarantee you we will get to the 
bottom of this.” He added that the incident 
would be investigated by the IFC (Inter 
Fraternity Council) Court and, pending its 
results, could go before a University Disci­
plinary Committee.
Dusenbury said he wasn’t sure whether 
Richardson or Klein would take the ATO 
brothers to court. He said DU could do 
nothing to ATO as a whole, but Richardson 
and Klein haven’t ruled out the possibility 
of a personal legal case.
“It was a fight and they lost. If they want 
to start trouble on campus or anywhere in 
life, if you start a fight with somebody, you 
got to be ready to defend yourself and pay 
the consequences. They came up and 
started trouble, and since they lost, they’re 
trying to pin it on us and make us the bad 
guys,” said Como.
yOiFOp ’srA
On the cutting edge
News meetings: Monday. 6pm in the 
Tartan Office
16 INCH PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.»^,
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
Congratulations to the 23 New
02 Pledges:
ufiIAFOIp ­aiFfOTisBscc MgdHT
wiOpF uOidINfOsCnFsvfsp ENwarOp
lOgC uafOpRO:It ENlfsiAap
­OiF ugttTlfICCIvs EsNh
9OI RadIpIh9IAfais /Oa
nsOp 2:Opa:INfyst /OCvfA
4 EINfOsC 1s/spNsEINfOsC /aAA
9sppsFflINhsTufiIA ndIFf
yrI0 wOCCsdaisBapOFfOp nFONh
nsOp -IiANf’sIC yOCAOpIO
/adsC BOgpFauOC:Ip bap0
-The Brothers of UV
Meeting to save 
5125 MM St.
(formerly known as Tech House)
Thursday Oct. 15 
at 4:30 pm 
Blue Conference Room 
6th floor, Warner Hall
Open to all who are 
concerned
questions? call Andy Robitshek at x2115

---------------------------------------------------

Salomon Brothers Inc_________
Market Makers and Investment Hankers
One V1" V>rk l*ta/j. \cw V>rk V» \«>rk KMNN AlblU. lioMim. ( Ita.i^o. Dallas. Unkkm (altili.nc). I**« SATIFCON Sun 1-raiKiM.o. l<ik\o (.ithli.ilcl. Zurich
There's a new career option for todays quantitative graduates.
Its not in academia Its not in G )q*>rate America. Its not in die 
Silict >n Valley
Its on Wall Street.
Today Wall Street “quants are literally shaping die future of 
high finance. They re developing a new generation of investment 
products, pioneering nevv ways to improve profitability and 
creating new opportunities for investors and issuers. And for dieir 
quantitative creativity diey're Ix^ing recognized widi qualitative 
rewards. Widi challenge, responsibility and recognition.
Yet you might be surprised to learn diat many of Wall Street s 
most successful “quants have no prior experience in finance or 
economics. They come from backgrounds in math, physics,
engineering, operations research, computer science, and odier 
quantitative disciplines.
Today Wall Street firms are hiring more quantitative graduates 
dian ev er, and Salomon Brodiers Inc. is no exception. A major invest­
ment banking and market-making firm, we re Wall Street s leading 
employer of “quant graduates. And since our research and tech­
nology management departments are die most respected in die 
industry you’ll be working w idi some of die top talent in your field.
Want to leani more about the cliallenge of working widi a Wall 
Street leader in one of today 's most rew arding quantitativ e careers? Don't 
miss die Salomon Brodiers presentation scheduled for your campus: 
ygsAtOTP ,NFaHsi SUPk'qm. uOips0Is EsCCap GpI:siAIFT 
nhIHa -OCCP /aad kS. ).UU*>WUU v“d“
HERE’S WHY

---------------------------------------------------

This week inScottOKdYard
Wednesday October 7th 
Movie—"Absolute Beginners 
8:30 pm and 11:30 pm 
Friday October 9th 
Jazz Band—"Axent"
Saturday October 10th 
piano man—"Scott Eggert 
9:30 pm and 11 pm
rr
ff
BNRI
WHERE FINE MINDS MANAGE INNOVATION.
As the R&D subsidiary of Northern Telecom, 
Bell-Northern Research is involved in shaping 
tomorrow's telecommunications innovations. 
Our past successes have helped make 
Northern Telecom the worlds largest 
manufacturer of digital telecommunications 
systems. And the future? Perhaps you can tell 
us.
Let us tell you about our industry and our 
opportunities at an information session:
October 7th
Or come speak with us about the possibilities of 
your own future at BNR:
October 8th
If you can't attend, send a resume or letter 
outlining your goals and qualifications to the 
lab of your choice:
Professional Staffing 
Bell-Northern Research 
HRM-1213 
Research Triangle Park 
North Carolina 27709
or
Professional Staffing 
Bell-Northern Research 
HRM-1213 
100 Phoenix Drive Ann Arbor 
Michigan 48106-1609
We are an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

You are invited to a 
presentation of Merrill Lynchs
FINANCE AND CORPORATE STRATEGY GROUP
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS OCTOBER 12,1987 12:30 TO 1:30 PM 
MASTERS AUDITORIUM GSIA BUILDING 
To discuss career opportunities for MBAs within the various divisions of this Group
Merrill Lynch
Your world should know 
no boundaries.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
uEG uagpAsCIp0 x nFgtspF Rs:sCavdspF uspFsi S>q* S'SS
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff member on call.
u,’yeuy lIFFAHgi0f““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““ mqS*)USo ^
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Rig0 uappsNFIap“““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““ qV))zmUU
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
ysC*eIt“““““““““““ ““““““““““““““ ““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““““ Sqk*)>>)
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues, j. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
What happens when you’re given the freedom to be creative?
When you work at Printronix, youil know.
When the only rules are the laws of science. When 
teamwork and individual effort co-exist in an atmo­
sphere of mutual trust. When the spirit of discovery 
prevails. Then your imagination, and your career, 
can soar.
I)
Who is Printronix?
We design, manufacture and market a comprehen­
sive line of printers for use with micro-computers, 
mini-computers and mainframe computer systems. 
Our unique printer technology encompasses non­
linear magnetics, high-speed electromechanical 
dynamics, graphic architectures, logic design, circuit 
design, VLSI design and software design. We’re 
located in Orange County, California’s fastest grow­
ing high-tech community, offering the finest educa­
tional, cultural and recreational opportunities.
Printronix is also a company with an entrepreneurial 
spirit and a vast regard for high achievers. We are 
seeking people with Electronic Engineering, 
Mechanical Engineering or Computer Science 
degrees who can help us achieve new heights in 
printer systems technology.
Are you interested in creative freedom and the 
rewards that go with it? Then see your Campus 
Placement Office to arrange an interview. Or send 
your resume to: Manager of Employment, Printronix, 
17500 Cartwright Road, Dept. C-019 , Irvine, CA 92714. 
An equal opportunity employer.
I)
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS October 15th & 16th
PRINTRONIX
The first line in printers.

---------------------------------------------------

Senate Elections
petitions are due
Monday October 26
at the Skibo Info Desk
CIT......4 seats
CFA......2 seats
MCS......2 seats
IM1 seats
H&SS......3 seats
SUPA......1 seat
GSIA......3 seats
CS......1 seat
Petitions can be obtained from 
the Skibo Info Desk
Elections will be held November 11 & 12

---------------------------------------------------

Fleeting Traditions: A Thing of the Past
While it’s necessary to plan for the Carnegie Mellon of the future, the 
administration is neglecting, nay, doing away with the Carnegie Mellon of the 
past. It’s no wonder school spirit is so low; we have no traditions to speak of.
Who can be sure what next week’s logo will be? First they got rid of the thistle, 
then the C and M inside a U (to represent the merging of the Carnegie Institue 
of Technology and the Mellon College of Science). And if that wasn’t good 
enough, they threw a 14-degree square at us, the significance of which has still 
not yet been explained.
The steam tunnels were closed, rather than repaired; the hyphen in “Carnegie 
Mellon” was dropped, as was the word “University.” The former Tech House’s 
future is uncertain.
It seems that the only things left to hold onto are Spring Carnival and the fence, 
but even those are endangered. Completion of the “Master Plan” will force a new 
location for Midway, and will there still be room for a sixty-five year old Fence 
on the best-designed college campus in the nation?
(Notice that even though everyone admits Warner Hall is ugly, no one is 
attempting to tear it down!)
Even if the short-range plans will leave the Fence intact, what will happen in 
the year 2000? That’s the expiration date on the mandate that no structure be 
built between Hunt Library and Forbes. Will the Fence stand that test of time?
If the Powers-That-Be refuse to protect what little the students hang onto—the 
only things that provide continuity from generation to generation—let them at 
least create new traditions in the process.
ROTC can rappel off the new parking garage; instead of Sweepstakes, we 
could have crew in the Ravine; we can have the tailgate party in the end-zone, 
instead of on the hill.
Maybe we should put Waner Hall on a 14-degree angle.
Letters:Pressler Worried About SEI’s Influence
Editor:|While I am sure that Josh Ruben did not 
intend to misrepresent my opinions in 
“Pressler Claims SEI is Promoting Arms 
Race" (The Tartan, 9/22/87), his article does 
not accurately portray my views on the Soft­
ware Engineering Institute (SEI). I do not 
think that SEI activities will inevitably con­
tribute to an arms race, and I am sure that the 
University does not want this to happen. 
However, I firmly believe that we need to 
study and evaluate CMU’s relationship with 
the Department of Defense (DoD) in order to 
ensure that the University does not find itself 
in a position that is both imprudent and mor­
ally problematic. On the face of it, there are 
several worrisome facts about CMU’s ties to 
DoD. For example, CMU currently receives 
more than $35 million a year form the DoD. 
This means that the University depends on the 
Department of Defense for over 40% its an­
nual research budget. Because of this depend­
ence, there is a real danger that CMU will 
actively oppose cuts in military spending for 
research and development. Do we really want 
Carnegie Mellon to lend its voice and prestige 
to the chorus of companies that already lobby 
for high military spending? In general, the 
more connections that CMU has to the mili­
tary-industrial complex, the more likely it is 
that the University will adopt a pro-defense 
posture to protect its funding sources. When 
matters as grave as our national military 
budget are at stake, we need to ask whether it 
is appropriate for the University to take a stand 
on the basis of narrow self-interest. ^
To the extent that CMU is financially de­
pendent on the DoD, it will be in the interest of 
the University to defend high military spend­
ing levels. However, it is far from clear that it 
is in Carnegie Mellon’s interest to maintain 
(let alone increase) its dependence on the 
DoD. Changes in the political climate can 
have substantial effects on the military budget. 
If Pentagon spending is cut, schools that rely 
heavily on military research grants will be 
faced with significant financial difficulties. 
Moreover, in light of CMU’s relatively small 
endowment and its relatively heavy reliance 
on military funding, the financial problems
that it will face are likely to be particularly 
severe. These considerations need to be given 
appropriate weight in University policy mak­
ing. It is all too easy to pursue short-term gains 
at the expense of long-term interests.
In addition to the concerns I have just ex­
pressed, I am worried about the connection 
between CMU’s DoD-sponsored activities 
and actual weapons systems. Although it 
appears that the SEI will not be building mis­
sion-oriented software, SEI Director Larry 
Druffel has said that “It is very likely that the 
technology developed by SEI ... will find its 
way into SDI” (a.k.a. Star Wars). More gener­
ally, official SEI literature states that one of the 
Institute’s “primary directives” is to “bring the 
ablest professional minds and the most effec­
tive technology to bear on the rapid improve­
ment of the quality of operational software in
Student criticizes Student Affairs...
MCCR systems.” According to Druffel, 
“MCCR” stands for “missile-critical com­
puter resources.” “It is a designation for sys­
tems incorporate computers essential to some 
mission .... For example, computers as part of 
an early warning system, as part of flight 
controls, as part of a command and control 
system.” In short, there is a clear link between 
SEI and the kinds of sophisticated equipment 
that play a crucial role in warfare. The exis­
tence of this connection raises obvious and 
important moral questions. Yet, so far as I am 
aware, very few people at CMU have taken 
these questions seriously.
Ultimately, CMU needs to implement a pol­
icy which ensures that its relationship with 
DoD is both prudent and morally responsible. 
However, before such a policy can be drafted, 
various issues (including those I have men­
tioned in this letter) need to be explored in an 
open, sensitive, and rational manner. Any and 
all of the following mechanisms could con­
tribute to this exploration: (i) a lecture series^ 
colloquium, or course in America’s military- 
industrial complex (perhaps sponsored by 
CMU’s International Peace and Security Pro­
gram); (ii) an informal seminar which delves 
into past and present relationships between 
universities and the military establishment; 
(iii) a joint faculty-staff-student committee 
which investigates Carnegie Mellon’s con­
nections with the DoD and disseminates ita! 
findings to the entire CMU community: (iv) an 
annual, publicly available report on DoD- 
sponsored research at CMU.
Jonathan Pressler
Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Leaflet Distribution Policy is Meaningless
Editor:
In the article concerning freedom of speech 
in the September 29th issue of The Tartan 
there were several quotes from Dean Walter 
concerning the current policy towards the 
distribution of leaflets on campus. I found 
blatant inconsistencies in his statements as 
published and the policies themselves.
To begin with, the article quotes Dean Walter 
as saying, “members of (CMU) have a right to 
protest anything they want unless they ob­
struct campus walkways or make obsceni­
ties.” He makes his statement in support of his 
requirement that a person show a copy of his or 
her leaflet to Student Affairs before they begin 
distributing them. How Dean Walter expects 
to know if a student will obstruct campus 
walkways by looking at a leaflet is unclear and 
doubtful. It is the job of the campus Police and 
Security to make sure that people do not block 
walkways for any reason, including leaflet- 
ing—not Student Affairs. I also wonder why 
Student Affairs must spend its time looking for 
obscenities in leaflets? If Student Affairs is
charged with keeping such things from our 
ears or eyes then they will need to expand their 
review process to include such things as cam­
pus movies and locker room conversations.
Further, in the article Dean Walter is quoted 
as saying that he “wants to know what’s going 
on” (presumably with regard to leafleting on 
campus). This is again offered as reasoning for 
“leaflet registration” with Student Affairs. 
However, if Police and Security are instructed, 
as he says, to inform Student Affairs of all 
“unregistered” leafleting, why bother requir­
ing registration at all? Since Police and Secu­
rity are willing to question leafleteers at the 
request of Student Affairs anyway, then they 
could certainly pick up a copy of the leaflets 
being distributed and mail it to Dean Walter.
As a supporting example for the “leaflet 
registration” policy, Dean Walter cites the 
case of a man (presumably not a student) 
banging a cross on classroom doors to provide 
a “little Christian message.” Here we have an 
example of someone who actually contacted 
Student Affairs, was given permission to leaf­
let, and proceeded to disrupt classes (but not 
block walkways or distribute obscenities). 
How this has connection to “leaflet registra­
tion” is not clear. I can see it only as an 
example of how Student Affairs’ policy does 
not work to protect the campus community 
and of a situation that Student Affairs is not 
equipped nor is chartered to handle. Why 
Dean Walter would choose to present a failure 
of his office in support of its policy is beyond 
me. I would have been more interested in 
knowing how well Police and Security were 
able to respond to this problem.
The gist of Dean Walter’s statements is that 
it is the responsibility of the faculty, staff, anw 
students to inform the administration of the 
campus “goings on,” as opposed to having the 
administration keep an eye out for themselves.
For my part, I will distribute leaflets on 
campus as I see fit, gladly saving an extra copy 
for a Campus Police office or Dean Walter 
should either happen by and ask for a copy.
Daniel Kahn

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 11
Y Conservative CornerReaganomics Works
By THOMAS A. HEIM
The new United States Census report on 
Money Income and Poverty Status of Families 
depicts a rosy picture for the income of Ameri- 
of what is heard from 
the media, and par­
ticularly the lobbyists 
for the poor, Re­
aganomics has 
clearly reversed the 
desperate situation that remained after the 
Carter years. To start with, the figures from 
1982-1986 show a median family income ris­
ing 10.7 percent in constant dollars. During 
^ this period, the incomes for blacks and other 
races rose 45 percent faster than whites, to post 
a gain of 14.8 percent. The Carter years (’77- 
’81) show a 6.4 percent fall in income for 
whites and 4.1 percent for blacks, contrasting 
strongly with the Reagan years which have
already posted an 8.7 percent white gain and a 
12.7 percent gain for blacks and other races.
Perhaps the most important aspect of these 
statistics is their breakdown—precisely where 
the gains were made. What the chart below 
shows is a clear trend towards availability of 
high paying jobs, and a clear refutation of the 
“need” for an increase in the minimum wage. 
The percentage of families in the lower in­
come bracket is rapidly diminishing, along 
with the middle income families, and they are 
together heading to the top upper income 
bracket. All this is happening despite a de­
crease in the rate of social spending by the 
federal government. It seems to me that these 
facts, not the misinformation spread by the 
special interests, ought to be the basis for a 
concerned voter to decide which political 
party, hence economic policy, is really benefi­
cial to the American family.
UPWARD MOBILITY RETURNS
Percent of Families By Income Level 1970-1986
(In Constant 1986 Dollars)
Income197719811986%Change
Under $12,5001977-811981-86
Whites13.9%15.9%14.7%+14.4%-7.5%
Blacks34.7%36.6%33.5%+5.5%-8.5%
(& Others)
$12,500-50,000
Whiles70.9%67.5%63.3%-4.8%-6.2%
Blacks61.3%56.25154.5%-8.3%-3.1%
(& Others)
Over $50,000
Whites17.9%16.6%22.0%-7.3%+32.5%
Blacks8.1%7.1%12.0%-12.3%+69.0%
(& Others)
Median Family Income
Whites$30,28928,35230,809-6.4%+8.7%
Blacks18,35117,59919,832-4.1%+12.7%
(& Others)
Source: U.S. Census Bureau P-60 #157
.Eric’s Tips For A Good Night’s Sleep
By ERIC WITTLE
All of the Quality of Life discussions I have 
been involved in have focused to a large extent 
on the culture of CMU. Most people feel that 
in order to make significant changes in the 
Quality of Life here, 
the culture of CMU 
must evolve in some 
way. In fact, these 
two ideas are inter­
twined, meaning that as the culture here 
changes, the Quality of Life must change too.
The culture we have now, focusing to a large 
extent on competition, achievement, and iden-
> Points to Ponder
By ANDREW ROBITSHEK
•SAMS, Students Against Multiple Sclero­
sis, is looking fora student coordinator hereon 
campus to help coordinate MS events here on 
campus this year. With a great coordinator, 
this campus could 
once again raise more 
money than any uni­
versity. If you are in­
terested in becoming 
a coordinator or just getting involved please let 
me know.
•Are you interested in saving the Wright 
house, formerly ‘Tech House”? There will be 
a meeting for all people interested in saving the 
house Thursday, October 18, in the Blue 
Conference room (6th floor Warner). There 
^ have been many suggestions as to some of the 
uses for the house, including student meeting 
rooms, a forum for student debate, a place for 
Carnegie memorabilia, a room for the om­
budsman, and even a new location for Scot­
land Yard, complete with a dance floor.
•Student Senate has been working hard for 
you this semester. They have set up a 1.5 credit 
Andrew class next semester for those upper­
classmen who have never used Andrew be­
fore. They are working with SDC and other or­
ganizations to provide a free homecoming 
lunch on the cut before the game this weekend, 
Saturday from 11:30-1:00.
•Did you notice that we have an extra day off 
before Thanksgiving? There are no classes on 
Wednesday, so enjoy the extra day at home.
•The Board of Trustees are having their 
meeting October 23-25 this year. One of the 
1 main topics is the Quality of Life reports; 
another is the University Center. Every year 
the Student Government President gives a 
speech to the Trustees. If you have any ideas or 
suggestions that you think are important to the 
campus, talk to me. This is a very important 
input to the trustees, and students' concerns 
must be expressed.
Andrew Robitshek is the Student Govern-
* ment President.
tification with small subgroups of the campus 
community, can grow in many different ways. 
In fact, it seems to be growing in good ways 
already. Not, perhaps in anything you can see, 
like increased attendance at football games, 
more student involvement, greater admini­
stration commitment, but more in subtle 
changes in attitude.
Students seem to be slightly more interested 
than in the past. The University Center issue, 
and other Quality of Life issues, seem to have 
sparked some interest among most students. 
There is still a great lack of action, but at least 
interest seems to be increasing.
After reflecting on this perception that inter­
est is increasing, I realized that this is probably 
a small healthy sign for both the culture of 
CMU and Quality of Life. The first step in 
changing a culture, or improving Quality of 
Life, has to involved interested people. If no 
one is interested, any effort in this area cannot 
be successful.
An increase in student interest about Quality 
of Life related concerns is a positive step, but 
a small positive step. If this interest does not 
continue to grow, then we will not have 
achieved anything. From interest, we must 
move to action, and then we can accomplish
true change, and growth.
As a student, you can contribute to Quality of 
Life in many ways, some requiring only a 
small effort. If you can project a positive, 
interested attitude for a day, or a week, you 
will be improving someone’s Quality of Life, 
including your own. If you can spend three or 
four hours helping your RA or SDC rep do a 
floor event, you will also help to improve 
Quality of Life. If you can spend several hours 
every week, being an SDC representative, a 
Tartan reporter, or a contributing member of 
any student organization, you can make a large 
difference in everyone’s Quality of Life.
At least spend 15 minutes to an hour each 
day, thinking about things that would improve 
your Quality of Life. If you can do that, 
chances are that you can find a way to improve 
your own Quality of Life, or insure that next 
time someone like myself asks what they can 
do to improve your Quality of Life, you'll have 
an answer.
Remember, I can be reached through the 
SDC office (x2114), through campus mail 
(Box 576), or through electronic mail 
(ewlk@tb).
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief...............................Russ Seligman
Managing Editor............................David N. Levy
Business Manager.........................Mark R. Benish
News Editor......................................Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor......................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor.................................Mary Murphy
Assistant Features Editor.........Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor....................................Stewart Levine
Assistant Sports Editor........................David Brill
Diversions Editor...............................Bruce Kasrel
Assistant Diversions Editor..............Leslie Griffin
Photo Editor....................................Glenn Schuster
Art Editor.................................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor..........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager.............................Drue Miller
Ad Manager.......................................Celeste Clark
Copy Manager................................Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors.................................................
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
The Tartan is a student newspaper of Carnegie MeHon University N 
is a weekly newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fait and 
spring semesters by students at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press, Inc Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opm.on of The 
Tartan editorial board Cohwnqs are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessanfy on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letter« 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually 
members of the University community A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan re­
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
1987 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the nght to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee, AH rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
HERBLOCK S CARTOON
" I DON'T KNOW WHY THEY BON'T SEEM TO HOL’D US IN AWE THE WAY THEY USEPTO"
^*$87

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—October 6,1987
Inquiring Minds Takes A Look At A Book
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
The following is an excerpt from Bob 
Woodward’s new book, Fail. Unfortunately, 
this excerpt was cut due to lack of space.
Casey, at that point, started to describe his 
first meeting with 
President Reagan.
“He closed the door 
to the Oval Office be­
hind me and told me 
to sit down. Ron then said, ‘Bill, by now I 
guess you’ve gone over the intelligence re­
ports. We’re really vulnerable to a cut off at 
any time of our strategic jelly bean supply. 
Most of our jelly beans come from unstable 
third world communist countries like France 
and Italy. We must secure a stable flow of jelly 
beans in case of a future embargo.’”
“It took me almost eight months to put to­
gether a plan that satisfied him. Every week 
we’d show him something new, but it just 
wasn’t what he wanted. Slowly it dawned on 
me; the President was obsessed with this jelly 
bean gap. What we needed was something 
radical: a covert, jelly-belly suicide squad 
composed of men willing to give their lives for 
country and jelly beans. But who? The obvi­
ous choice, the Marines. Finally, we discov­
ered a secure source of jelly beans in Lebanon, 
so we sent Marines there to secure the jelly 
bean perimeter.”
The supply operation was run out of the 
Beirut embassy until the morning of October
23, 1983, when Shiite extremists bombed the 
Marine barracks. This much was publicly 
known. Hidden from the public was the real 
motive for the bombing: the United States had 
just picked Iran over Iraq as a long term Mid 
East supplier for jelly beans.
The Administration wanted to continue the 
operation, but public opinion was far and away 
against it so a new plan was sought out. Casey 
explained, “In early 1983, Col. Oliver North 
approached H. Ross Perot in an attempt to 
persuade him to buy an overseas jelly bean 
plant. Perot found one in Grenada, but could
not get access to the airport’s one runway 
because it was constantly being used by Cuban 
tourists. We saw only one real option, 
Operation G-Day. Finally, the day came and, 
honestly Bob, it was the most fun I’d had since 
skimming the stock market while chairman of 
the SEC!”
Things went well for a while, until the 
American demand for jelly beans increased 
during the economic recovery. In early 1985, 
President Reagan came up with his “hostages 
for jelly beans” plan. The CIA planned on 
sending the Iranians Alexander Haig, but they 
held out for the CIA Beirut station chief. It was 
a tough choice, but the spy game is full of 
them.
In a later interview, Casey justified the pro­
gram, “The plan worked well in the beginning,
but the Iranians quickly discovered they had us 
in a bind. Each month they’d ask us for an 
increasingly important hostage, first Terry 
Waite, then Charles Glass. It finally became 
too much when they demanded Vanna White. 
It took Vanna to make us realize the immoral­
ity of it all.”
“Then the Walker spy case broke. We real­
ized the Soviets had probably been passed 
information about our heavy dependence on 
jelly bean imports. The President decided this 
was the last straw. For the evil empire to gain 
such knowledge was unacceptable. We 
needed a spy to get the jelly bean dossier back, 
someone the Soviets would never suspect. Ed 
Meese would be too obvious, like using a 747 
for reconnaissance. Then fortune smiled upon 
us in the form of little Samantha Smith. We
hurriedly trained her in stealth, assassination, 
and French. Bravely she flew off with her 
suicide Barbie doll and teddy bear. She was 
unable to locate the jelly bean dossier, but she 
did return with a list of Gorbachev’s ten favor­
ite Slim Whitman tunes.”
After Samantha’s mission, Reagan needed a 
rest. While vacationing at his ranch in Califor­
nia, the President chatted with James Watt. 
Since Watt hadn’t found a job yet, Reagan 
offered him the directorship of the JBIG (Jelly 
Bean Intelligence Group). Watt didn’t under­
stand.
Casey related, “Watt asked, ‘Why don’t we 
just make our own?’”
Casey said, “We hadn’t thought of that.” 
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, and R. Wilson.This Guy’s Really Into Money
By RUSS COOPER
If the predicted gloom of the federal deficit 
isn’t enough, there may exist another monster 
of the “gloomsayers” to inspire us to trade 
greenbacks for gold. Foreign investment, the 
growth of foreign 
banks, and their 
spread to our shores 
all spell the end of our 
economic way of life, 
right?
Wrong. There are certainly understandable 
circumstances to account for such intrusions. 
First, we’ve been running record trade defi­
cits, and the money that flows out has to go 
somewhere. It shouldn’t be surprising that it 
returns here. The U.S. provides some of the 
most salient, liquid markets in the world in 
anything from real estate to bonds, with infini­
tesimal political risk, compared to other coun­
tries. The petrodollars of the 1970’s found 
their way home didn’t they? Also, until that 
same decade, our domestic interest rates were 
consistently lower than those abroad. This is
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
"ANYHOW, WE PI WT SELL THEM THE MINES"
no longer the case, and as long as exchange 
rates remain even somewhat stable, the U.S. 
will continue to offer sound investment oppor­
tunities in the world market.
The protectors of our economy say we 
should be fearful; the growth of foreign banks 
in our country, notably Japanese, and the in­
vestments they promote will erode our stan­
dard of living. They’ll devaluate our currency. 
And if that isn’t enough, those fiends may just 
pull out any time they please, leaving the entire 
fate of our democracy at their disposal!
Let us look at an analogy. American banks 
following WWII were slow to invest in other 
areas of the world (one of the factors leading to 
the Marshall Plan). However, because of this 
plan, and the shear strength of an American 
economy left intact following a war of great 
destruction in other industrialized countries, a 
great deal of the world’s trade and transactions 
were soon dollar dominated.
Because of this, American banks started to 
expand abroad, opening branches and agen­
cies in foreign markets, much the same as large 
foreign banks are now doing here. At first, 
other countries feared devaluation of their cur­
rency as well as irreversible trade imbalances. 
Doesn’t this all sound familiar? Can you actu­
ally picture an equivalent of Richard Gephardt 
in a developing nation screaming “Please 
America, please don’t invest money in us.” 
American banks found themselves largely
serving American multinationals, who them­
selves were making acquisitions and invest­
ments in the host countries. Again, much the 
same as a Volkswagen plant in Ohio, or a ^ 
Japanese electronics firm in California.
Surprisingly, the world did not end for these 
countries. They found these American invest­
ments raised their GNP, improved job oppor­
tunities, increased exports, and more. It also 
relieved domestic capital markets.
In turn, this allowed for increased investment 
without the difficulties of effecting the poor or 
stimulating inflation. These all seem desirable ^ 
results; enough that even the US might 
“lower” itself enough to succumb to them.
Before we take any reactionary measures, be 
they legislative barriers or demagoguery by 
the Business Roundtable, we should let events 
proceed in an unhindered, natural course.
Moreover, it may not be within our power to 
stop this phenomenon. It should be just as easy 
for Japanese investment in this country to 
occur as it was for American investment in 
other parts of the world a generation ago. As 
Joseph Schumpeter once put it, “Capitalism is 
by nature a form or method of economic 
change and not only never is, but never can be, 
stationary.” That’s what free enterprise is all 
about anyway, isn’t it? If the Japanese sur­
pluses make it possible for them to provide 
capital here more cheaply than we can provide $ 
it ourselves, why shouldn’t they?
Slightly to the left...Why “Gay” Doesn’t Mean “Happy
By MICHAEL WITZBROCK & 
MICHAEL FRANZINI 
While one might argue about the extent of 
actual change in people’s lives, the last two 
decades have seen an enormous increase in the 
official recognition of the rights of minorities.
There are now federal 
laws protecting 
women, people of 
color and ethnic mi­
norities from dis­
crimination. It has been determined that where 
these characteristics do not directly affect a 
person’s ability to do a job or pay for some 
service, there is no justification for discrimina­
tion based on them.
Carnegie Mellon University, for instance, 
“...does not discriminate on the basis of race, 
color, national or ethnic origin, sex, or handi­
cap in the administration of any of its educa­
tional programs and activities....” One minor­
ity group is conspicuous in its absence. Lesbi­
ans and gay men are unprotected by Carnegie 
Melton’s policy. With few exceptions, they 
are also unprotected by this nation’s civil 
rights programs and legislation.
People can be fired from their jobs, denied 
housing, insurance or health care, deported, or 
discharged from the military if they are, or are 
believed to be, gay or lesbian. In most states, 
gay men and lesbians can be arrested and
convicted as felons merely for having sex. 
Last year, the Supreme Court confirmed the 
right of states to control what goes on in their 
citizens’ bedrooms. The Court ruled that the 
right to private sexual relationships depends v 
on marriage, not on consent The United S tates 
is one of the few remaining western democra­
cies with such an archaic view.
Not only have things not improved, they 
threaten to get worse. Conservative interests 
are attempting to use AIDS as a justification 
for discrimination both against its sufferers 
and against the larger gay and lesbian popula­
tion. This attempt doesn’t just threaten to * 
make the lives of millions miserable, it threat­
ens to force gay men back into clandestine, 
anonymous, unsafe sexual encounters.
The forces which threaten lesbians and gay 
men threaten the rights of every citizen. On 
October 11, people from across the country 
will march in Washington for gay and lesbian 
rights. They will be demanding no special 
concessions, no favors, simply the the rights i 
which are due to all citizens; they will demand 
legal recognition of relationships, freedom 
from capricious laws and unfair discrimina-' 
tion, care for the sick and an end to sexism and 
racism. By supporting this march, the Ameri­
can people can show the lawmakers that they 
truly value liberty, that they truly believe that 
“none of us are free till all of us are free.”

---------------------------------------------------

October
^îi¿/ .f.bftöf* '>¦*ÍB31 mon %nmjyut»
Sponsored by SDC and Student Senate 
Saturday 11:30pm-l :00pm

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITYELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar 
fall, 1987
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of 
final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6. 
7.
all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for
exam purposes of any kind;
faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so 
that people can leave earlier.
no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given 
finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving 
conflicts;
no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes; 
papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes; 
take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the 
student's choosing during the final exam period.
18133INTR TO DIGITAL SYSWEDDEC16130-4:30PMDH2315,P«pi;
18201FIELD ANALY & ENGRWEDDEC16130-4:30PMPH100
18217SIGNALS & SYSTMS IFRIDEC11830-11:30AMDH2315
18221AN DES ANALOG CIRCMONDEC14130-4:30PMDH1112,DH121Ü
18233INTR TO SOL ST PHYSWEDDEC16830-11:30AMHH B103
18247INTRO COMPUTER ARCHMONDEC14530-8:30PMPH100
18301FNDMNTLS OF CONTROLTUEDEC8530-8:30PMHH B103, HH B]
18313C-C TST MEA SYS DESTHUDEC10130-4:30PMSH324
18335MOS FLD EF DEV TECHTUEDEC8830-11:30AMSH206
18441LOGIC & PROC DESIGNTHUDEC10130-4:30PMWEH7500
18701ELECTRMG FLD THEORYTUEDEC8830-11:30AMWEH6423
18771LINEAR SYSTEMSTUEDEC8530-8:30PMHH B103, HJI B]
18791DGTL SIGNAL PROC ITUEDEC8830-11:30AMSH125
18805S T MAG OP DAT STORWEDDEC16830-11:30AMSH324
MATHEMATICS
NOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY OR
ALTERATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED 
TO THE APPROPRIATE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
THIS FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IS ALSO FOUND ON THE TOPS BBOARD SYSTEM 
UNDER "REGISTRAR-INFORMATION".
BIOLOGICALSCIENCES
03121MODERN BIOLOGYTHUDEC10830-11:30AMDH2210,
03130BIOLOGY OF ORGANISMTHUDEC10830-11:30AMDH2315
03240CELL BIOLOGYFRIDEC11830-11:30AMMI355
03243EXP TCH GEN MOL BIOTUEDEC8830-11:30AMDH1209
03331BIOCHEMISTRY IWEDDEC16830-11:30AMHH B131
03380VIROLOGYFRIDEC11830-11:30AMSH324
03392ELECTROCHM BIOPHYSTHUDEC10130-4:30PMDH2122
03438PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYTHUDEC10130-4:30PMDH2200
03442MOL BIO EUKARYOTESWEDDEC16830-11:30AMSH422
03742MOL BIO EUKARYOTESWEDDEC16830-11:30AMSH422
03780VIROLOGYFRIDEC11830-11:30AMSH324
21105PRE-CALCULUSTUEDEC88:30-11:30AMDH2200
21111CALCULUS IWEDDEC161:30-4:30PMDH2210, 1
21112CALCULUS IIWEDDEC161:30-4:30PMHH B103,
21121CALCULUS IFRIDEC111:30-4:30PMDH2210, 1 
DH12"2* 121122CALCULUS & LIN ALGMONDEC14530-8:30PMDH2210, 1
21127DISCR MATH CMPTR SCTUEDEC15830-11:30AMDH2315
21257OPTMZTN SOC SCI ITUEDEC15830-11:30AMDH2210
21258OPTMZTN SOC SCI IITUEDEC15530-8:30PMDH2210
21259CALCULUS IN 3-DMONDEC14130-4:30PMDH2210, !
21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSFRIDEC11530-8:30PMDH2210, 1
21301COMBINATORIAL ANALYWEDDEC16130-4:30PMWEH7500,
21341LINEAR ALGEBRATUEDEC15830-11:30AMPH100
21369NUMERICAL METHODSMONDEC14130-4:30PMHH B131,
21371FUNC CMPLX VARIABLEFRIDEC11830-11:30AMWEH6423
21441NUMBER THEORYWEDDEC16830-11:30AMWEH8^7
21442NMRCL LIN ALGEBRATHUDEC10130-4:30PMDHl^A
21455ADVANCED CALCULUS ITHUDEC10130-4:30PMDH1217
21473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTTUEDEC8130-4:30PMHH B103
21480SPECIAL RELATIVITYTUEDEC8830-11:30AMDH2105
21483OPTIMIZATIONFRIDEC11130-4:30PMPH225C
21484APPL GRAPH THEORYTHUDEC10830-11:30AMDH1212
21551MATHEMATCL LOGIC IMONDEC14830-11:30AMADAMSON
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
CHEMICALENGINEERING
06101PROC MODELING ANALYFRIDEC111:30-4:30PMDH1112
06151THERMODYNAMICSTUEDEC81:30-4:30PMDH1112
06201PRINC TRANS PROC IIWEDDEC161:30-4:30PMDH1112
06204PROCESS THERMODYNAMMONDEC141:30-4:30PMMM14
06301CHEM ENGR KINETICSFRIDEC118:30-11:30AMDH1112
06302PROC ENGR & SYNTHWEDDEC161:30-4:30PMMM14
06703ADV FLUID DYNAMICSTUEDEC88:30-11:30AMDH2122
24102STATICS DFRM SOLIDSFRIDEC111:30-4:30PMSH125
24112FLUID MECHANICSTUEDEC158:30-11:30AMSH324, SH422
24208MANUFACTUR SCIENCESFRIDEC111:30-4:30PMWEH5427
24213VISCOUS FLOWTHUDEC101:30-4:30PMSH206, SH220
24223THERMODYNAMICS IIFRIDEC118:30-11:30AMHH B103, HH Bl:
24233HEAT TRANSFERWEDDEC168:30-11:30AMSH206
24258 NUMERICAL METHODSTHUDEC101:30-4:30PMHH B131, HH B1C
^ *y-ik: 3JX cÜCHaÜMETALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
CHEMISTRY
09103 ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNG MON DEC 14 1: 
09105 MODERN CHEMISTRY I WED DEC 16 8:
09106 MODERN CHEMISTRY II WED DEC 16 Is
09107 HONORS CHEMISTRY WED DEC 16 8 s
09117 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I MON DEC 14 8:
09218 ORGAN CHEMISTRY II TUE DEC 8 5:
09245 PHYS CHEMISTRY I THU DEC 10 Is
30-4:30PM WEH7500
30-11:30AM DH2210, DH1212, DH1112, 
WEH5403 r WEH5427, PH19A, 
PH19C, PH20, DH A317 
WEH540330-4:30PM 
30-11:30AM SH125 
30-11:30AM DH2315 
30-8:30PM 
30-4:30PM
27131INTRO MATERIALS SCITHUDEC10830-11:30AM
ADH1112
BWEH7500
27313THERMODYNAMICS IIFRIDEC11830-11:30AMDH A317
27331PHYSCL METALLURGY ITHUDEC10130-4:30PMPH125C
27441DFRMATN OF MATLSTHUDEC10830-11:30AMDH A317
27529ADV CHEM METALLURGYFRIDEC11130-4:30PMDH A317
27531MTL ASP SMCND DEV IWEDDEC16830-11:30AMDH1217
27765SP TPCS STAT THERMOTHUDEC10130-4:30PMWEH5205
27779STRUCTURE OF MATLSTUEDEC8830-11:30AMDH A317
27782PHASE TRNS SOLIDS IFRIDEC11830-11:30AMDH1217
27788THEO & APPL DEFECTSTHUDEC10130-4:30PMDH12*J
WEH5427 
DH1112, DH1212PHYSICS
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12100INT CREAT ENG/INNOVMONDEC14830-11:30AMDH1212
12110INTRO ENGR ECONTUEDEC15130-4:30PMSH12512207STATICSFRIDEC11130-4:30PMPH115
12241INTR CMPTR APP C EFRIDEC11830-11:30AMPC CLUSTER
12300ENGR SYNTH & DESIGNFRIDEC11130-4:30PMPH125B
12320STRUCTURAL MECH ITHUDEC10130-4:30PMPH107A
12330FLUID MECHANICS IWEDDEC16830-11:30AMPH11512623STRUCTURAL DESIGNTUEDEC8830-11:30AMPH19C12627GEOTECH ENGINEERINGTHUDEC10130-4:30PMSH212
12636ENVR ENGR AIR POLLUWEDDEC16830-11:30AMPH125B
12637PRB ENGR PROJ EVALUFRIDEC11830-11:30AMPH125B
12704RELIABL RISK ANALYFRIDEC11130-4:30PMSH324
12720WATER RESOURCE CHEMFRIDEC11830-11:30AMSH20612771ANALY OF STRUC SYSTTUEDEC8830-11:30AMPH125B
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15200SRV PRGMNG MTH APPLMONDEC14530-8:30PMWEH5427
15211FUND STRUC CMP SC IFRIDEC11130-4:30PMWEH7500
15212FUND STRC CMP SC IITUEDEC15530-8:30PMDH2315
15312PROG LANG DES PROCFRIDEC11130-4:30PMPH100
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVWEDDEC16830-11:30AMWEH7500
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSFRIDEC11130-4:30PMADAMSON
15451APPL ALGRTHM DESIGNFRIDEC11830-11:30AMWEH7500
15453FRM LANG & AUTOMATATUEDEC8830-11:30AMDH1217
15462COMPUTER GRAPHICSTUEDEC8530-8:30PMWEH7500
33115INTRODUCT PHYSICS
A,B,C
D,E
FRIDEC111:30-4:30PM
HH B103 
WEH540333121PHYSICS I MECHANICSTUEDEC88s30-11:30AMDH2210, 
WEH7500 
SH 22033122PHYSICS II HT WV OPTUEDEC155330-8:30PMDH121233123PHYSICS III EL MAGTUEDEC85:30-8:30PMDH2210,
DH111233127PHYS III HNR EL MAGTUEDEC8830-11:30AMWEH520533130PHYSCL MECHANICS ITUEDEC15130-4:30PMDH111233435MODERN PHYSICS IITHUDEC10130-4:30PMWEH731633437INTRMD ELEC & MAG ITUEDEC8830-11:30AMWEH540333441THERMODYNAMICSWEDDEC16130-4:30PMWEH731633445MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYSWEDDEC16830-11:30AMWEH520533449ELECTRONICS IITHUDEC10130-4:30PMDH A32533453INTERMEDIATE OPTICSMONDEC14830-11:30AMWEH842733463SPECIAL' RELATIVITYFRIDEC11830-11:30AMWEH520533755QUANTUM MECHANICS ITUEDEC8830-11:30AMWEH731633757CLASSICAL MECHANICSTHUDEC10130-4:30PMWEH642333759INTRO THEO PHYS IWEDDEC16830-11:30AMWEH731633765STATISTCL MECHANICSTHUDEC10130-4:30PMWEH842733769QUANTUM MECHNCS IIITUEDEC8830^11:30AMWEH842733783THEORY OF SOLIDS IWEDDEC16830-11:30AMWEH6423
%DH2315i
STATISTICS
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19100 TECHNOLOGY & PEOPLE MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM PH100, WEH7500
19319 LAW & THE ENGINEER MON DEC 14 8:30-11:30AM WEH5427
19431 TCHNLGY & ARMS RACE TUE DEC8 1:30-4:30PM 
19701 RSCH METHDLGS EPP I THU DEC 10 1:30-4:30PM
PH125C
PH19A
36101STAT CNCPTS CMP APPWEDDEC168:30-11:30AMDH2315
36209PRB APP STA MG SS ITHUDEC105:30-8:30PMDH2210,E
DH1112,Vi
36211PRB APP ST PH S&E ITHUDEC105:30-8:30PMSH125
36217PROB THEO RNDM PROCTHUDEC105:30-8:30PMDH2315
36225INTRO PROB & STAT ITHUDEC105:30-8:30PMPH100
36325PROB & MATH STAT ITHUDEC101:30-4:30PMPH126A
36702APPL STOCH PROC ITUEDEC88:30-ll:30AMPH19A

---------------------------------------------------

12
12
B131
B131
76241DISCOURSE HST CHNG
A
THUDEC108:30-11:30AM
BH235B.
CIT INTERDISCIPLINARYBPH125C_
RL TMCOMPUT IN LAB MON DEC 14 1:30-4:30PM PH10076242RDG 20TH-C CULTURETUEDEC8530-8:30PMBH229B76244SHAKESPEARETUEDEC15830-11:30AMADAMSON76245SHAKESPEAREWEDDEC16130-4:30PMBH235B
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING7633119TH 20TH C EUR FICFRIDEC11130-4:30PMBH231B76332MEDIEVAL LITERATUREFRIDEC11830-11:30AMBH231A
42100INTR TO BIOMED ENGR MON DEC 14 5:30-8:30PMDH121276391PRESCRPT LINGUISTCSFRIDEC11830-11:30AMBH131B
42500PHYSIOLOGY TUE DEC 15 1:30-4:30PMWEH542776441ERO S HST 16TH POETTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH255B
42609FERMENTATN TCHNLGY THU DEC 10 1:30-4:30PMDH21057673119TH 20TH C EUR FICFRIDEC11130-4:30PMBH231B
42636ENVRN ENG AIR POLLU TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AMPH126B76732MEDIEVAL LITERATUREFRIDEC11830-11:30AMBH231A
42677REHABILITATION ENGR TUE DEC 8 5:30-8:30PMDH220076791PRESCRPT LINGUISTCSFRIDEC11830-11:30AMBH131B76819COMPUT £ RHTRCL STDTUEDEC8830-11:30AMWEH520276827PROCESS OF RESEARCHTHUDEC10130-4:30PMBH229B
ARCHITECTURE76841ERO S HST 16TH POETTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH255B
48100 DESIGN STUDIO I 
48140 INTRO ARCHTCT HIST 
48430 ADVANCED STRUCTURES TUE DEC 
48520 PROFESSNL PRACTICE 
48530 INTRO BLDG TYPES
WED DEC 16 8:30-11:30AM STUDIO 
TUE DEC 8 8:30-ll:30AM DH2315 
8 8:30-ll:30AM PH126A 
THU DEC 10 1:30-4:30PM CFA211 
TUE DEC 8 8:30-ll:30AM CFA206
HISTORY
HBH1000, SH125 
, HH B131 
DH2315, HBH1000, 
PHl^C 
DH2315
DH2315, SH125 
DH2315 
, PH125C
DESIGN
51400 DES PRINC PROF PRAC TUE DEC 8 8:30-ll:30AM DH1112
54785 COLLOQUIUM
DRAMA
TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM MM310
, HH B103
Û
131
103
57100HARMONY NON-MAJORS
MUSIC 
FRI DEC11530-8:30PMMM127
57101SOLFEGE NON-MAJORSWEDDEC16830-11:30AMMM127
57102EURHYTHMICS NON-MAJTUEDEC8830-11:30AMMM112
57103HSTRY MUSIC NON-MAJFRIDEC11530-8:30PMCFA160
57109ELEMENTARY THEORYWEDDEC16130-4:30PMCFA160
57121ENGLISH DICTIONTHUDEC10130-2:30PMCFA157
57127AWARENESS OF SOUNDWEDDEC16830-11:30AMMM14
57129TUNING OF THE WORLDMONDEC14830-11:30AMMM310
57161EURHYTHMICS ITUEDEC8830-11:30AMMM119
57173HISTORY OF MUSIC IFRIDEC11130-4:30PMCFA157
57175SOLFEGE MUS THEA ITUEDEC8830-9:30AMMM127
57177SOLFEGE MUS THE IIITUEDEC8930-10:30AMMM127
57181SOLFEGE IFRIDEC11830-11:30AMMM127
57204HIST OF MUSIC IIIWEDDEC16830-11:30AMCFA157
57223THEORYTUEDEC8530-8:30PMMM103
57257ORCHESTRATION ITHUDEC10230-4:30PMCFA157
57271ORCHESTRATION IITHUDEC10130-4:30PMMM127
57323THEORYTUEDEC8830-11:30AMCFA157
57332INTRO TO CONDUCTINGMONDEC14830-11:30AMACH
57344INSTR MTH BR/WW/PERFRIDEC11830-11:30AMCFA160
57347ELCTR & CMPT MUS ITHUDEC10530-8:30PMACH
57376SECONDARY METHODSTUEDEC8830-11:30AMCFA16Q
57847ELCTR & CMPT MUS ITHUDEC10530-8:30PMACH
57883SECONDARY METHODSTUEDEC8830-11:30AMCFA160
57893INTRO TO CONDUCTINGMONDEC14830-11:30AMACH
79102SHAPING WSTRN CIVWEDDEC168:30-11:30AM
BPH21
CBH235B
D,EMM103
FPH125C79103AMERICAN CIVILIZATNTUEDEC81:30-4:30PMBH131B79104INTRO TO WORLD HISTTUEDEC81:30-4:30PMPH100, PH225C79120DEV OF AMER SOCIETY 
A
C,E
F
TUEDEC85:30-8:30PM
PH226B
PH125C
PH225C79121CMP ISS US LAT AM HMONDEC14830-11:30AMSH32479123PTRN CHNG 19TH AMERTUEDEC8530-8:30PMADAMSON79124IND AMER 1880-1945TUEDEC8830-11:30AMMM310A79206CHINESE CULT & SOCTHUDEC10830-11:30AMBH255A79215DYN EUROPE SOCIETYTUEDEC15530-8:30PMPH107A79221HSTRY AMER URB LIFETHUDEC10830-11:30AMBH231A79222TPCS AMER BUSINESSWEDDEC16830-11:30AMBH237B79233MKNG OF MDRN FAMILYMONDEC14130-4:30PMBH255B79236WORK AND LEISUREMONDEC14830-11:30AMPH125C79250INTRO APPL HISTORYFRIDEC11830-11:30AMPH126B79251INTRO SOCIAL HISTMONDEC14530-830PMBH237B79261DEV LTRCY WSTRN SOCMONDEC14130-430PMSH22079262WOMEN IN AMER HISTTUEDEC8130-430PMPH226B7930720TH-CENT AMERICATUEDEC8530-830PMPH226C79308REC AMER FOR POLWEDDEC16130-430PMPH2079313PROFESS IN SOCIETYFRIDEC11130-430PMBH254A79320AFRO-AMER HISTORY IMONDEC14530-830PMBH131B79338GAUCH IND LAT AMERFRIDEC11130-430PMPH2279359TCHNLGY & ORGNIZATNTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH231A79362WAR REV EUR 20TH-CTHUDEC10830-11:30AMDH1211
79370MDRN RUSSIAN HSTRYWEDDEC16830-11:30AMPH225B79444SEM CMP SOCIAL HISTTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH254A79727PROSEM IN US HSTRYTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH242C
80310 LOGIC COMPUTBLTY I 
80510 SEM LOGIC & COMPUT
INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
PHILOSOPHY
TUE DEC 15 1:30-4:30PM PH125C 
TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM BH131A
MODERN LANGUAGES
131
, HBH1000, 
3, SH212,
5, DH1212,
70101ELEM INDUSTRL ADMINTUEDEC88:30-11:30AMPH20
70121FINANC ACCOUNTINGMONDEC148:30-11:30AM82101ELEMENTARY FRENCHFRIDEC11130-4:30PMBH235A
ASH12582103PROGRAMMED FRENCHTUEDEC15830-11:30AMPH225C
B,CHH B103, HH B13182121ELEMENTARY GERMANTUEDEC15530-8:30PMPH100
70150FNDMNTLS INSURANCEFRIDEC111:30-4:30PMBH131B82123PROGRAMMED GERMANMONDEC14530-8:30PMBH235A
70311ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR IMONDEC145:30-8:30PM82141ELEMENTARY SPANISHWEDDEC16830-11:30AMPH226B
A, BWEH750082143PROGRAMMED SPANISHFRIDEC11530-8:30PMPH21
CSH12582161ELEMENTARY ITALIANTHUDEC10830-11:30AMPH225C
70335BUSINESS AND LABORTUEDEC85:30-8:30PMSH12582171ELEMENTARY JAPANESETUEDEC15530-8:30PMPH226B
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAWTUEDEC81:30-4:30PM82201INT FRENCH CULT SOCTHUDEC10130-4:30PMBH235A
ADH221082203INTER PRGRMD FRENCHTUEDEC15530-8:30PMADAMSON
BDH231582221INT GERMAN CULT SOCTUEDEC8530-8:30PMBH231B
70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCFRIDEC111:30-4:30PM82241INT SPAN CUL & SOCFRIDEC11530-8:30PMPH226C
APH2082261INTERMED ITALIANTHUDEC10830-11:30AMPH225C
BPH2182271INTERMED JAPANESETHUDEC10830-11:30AMPH226B
70381MARKETING IWEDDEC168:30-11:30AM82301FRENCH CONVER COMPTUEDEC8530-8:30PMBH235A
A,BPH10082321GERMAN CONVER COMPTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH235A
CADAMSON82341SPANISH COMPOSITIONTUEDEC15530-8:30PMPH21
70391FINANCE ITHUDEC108:30-ll:30AMADAMSON82415STUDIES FRENCH LITFRIDEC11530-8:30PMPH226B
70422COST ACCOUNTINGFRIDEC118:30-ll:30AM82428GERMAN CLASSICL LITFRIDEC11830-11:30AMPH226B
APH225C82441SURV SPAN LIT CULTTUEDEC8830-11:30AMBH235B
B,C
70440 STRATEGIC MANAGEMNT MON 
70451 MGMNT INFORMATN SYS FRI 
70637 CMPTR GRPHCS CMNCTN FRI
DEC 14 
DEC 11 
DEC 11
8:30
1:30
1:30
-11:30AM
-4:30PM
-4:30PM
ADAMSON, PH125C 
BH235B 
BH237B 
DH2122
SOCIAL AND DECISION SCIENCES
ECONOMICS
73100 PRINC OF ECONOMICS THU DEC 10 1:30-4:30PM
A-H
I-M
DH1212, 
WEH7500
73250
73300
73355
73360
73365
73370
73430
INTERMED MICROECON 
A,B 
C,D
INTERMED MACRECON
A,B
C
RES ALLOC POLIT PRO 
ECONOMETRICS
A,B
C
INDUSTRL ORGA IZATN 
INTERNATL ECONOMICS 
TPC ECO UNCERTAINTY
TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM
TUE DEC 8 8:30-11:30AM
MON DEC 14 1:30-4:30PM 
THU DEC 10 1:30-4:30PM
TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM 
WED DEC 16 1:30-4:30PM 
MON DEC 14 5:30-8:30PM
DH2315,DH2210 
MM14, MM103, 
SH125, HBH1000
HH B103, HH B131 
PH125C, PH225C
MM14, WEH5427
DH1212
WEH5427
PH100
WEH5427
PH125C
PH225C
PH226C
88102DEC PR AM POL INSTFRIDEC11830-11:30AMDH2210,
88200STRUCT ANALY & DESTHUDEC10130-4:30PMADAMSON
88220POLICY ANALYSIS IFRIDEC11530-8:30PMPH100
88223DEC AN DEC SUP SYSTTUEDEC8530-8:30PMPH100
88240EMPIRCL RSCH METH IWEDDEC16130-4:30PMADAMSON
88260ORGANIZATIONSTUEDEC15130-4:30PMADAMSON
88302BEHAV DECISN THEORYWEDDEC16830-11:30AMDH1209
88312POLITICAL PSYCHFRIDEC11130-4:30PMPH226C
88342MKT ORG BUS BEHAVMONDEC14830-11:30AMPH19A
88352ANTHROPOLOGYTUEDEC8830-11:30AMPH226B
88364CULT VAL TECH INNOVTHUDEC10130-4:30PMPH223D
PSYCHOLOGY
ENGLISH
76102 READING TO WRITE THU DEC 10 1:30-4:30PM
A BH231B
76230 BBLCL MYTH BKGR LIT TUE DEC 15 8:30-11:30AM BH237B
85100COG PROC THEO PRACMONDEC148:30-11:30AMDH2210,
DH1112,PH225C, MM14
85110INT TO SYMBOL COMPTUEDEC151:30-4:30PMDH2210
85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYFRIDEC115:30-8:30PMPH125C
85213INFO PR PSY ART INTTUEDEC88:30-11:30AMADAMSON
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTMONDEC145:30-8:30PMPH21
85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTUEDEC155:30-8:30PM
APH125C
BPH225C
85310RSCH MTHDS COG PSYWEDDEC168:30-11:30AMPH126A
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYTHUDEC101:30-4:30PMBH336B
85393HUMAN FACTORSTUEDEC88:30-11:30AMPH21
85411COG PROC PROB SOLVWEDDEC168:30-11:30AMBH235A
85420PRCPTN & PRCPTL DEVMONDEC141:30-4:30PMBH340A
85711COG PROC PROB SOLVWEDDEC168: 30-11:30AMBH235A

---------------------------------------------------

The
1987
Thistle
has arrived!
nivy t(,-nu 10 ttmuio / fiuonuo fens iriieup a yru>
Distribution of pre-ordered books:
Tuesday - Friday 
lpm - 5pm 
Skibo, Room 53
Please bring your receipt
The Thistle has sold out, however a waiting list 
has been instituted in the event that books be­
come available. See Room 46-A for details.
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Features
ft
(*
Who’s Got the Right 
Words, Poe or Toe?
Carnegie Mellon cleans up on awards...
Chairs Awarded to Three Professors
Many people have been using the wrong 
words. A certain word is needed, in writing 
or conversation, and the speaker will just 
make a substitution. He or she will make 
sounds similar to the sounds found in the 
f word, regardless of the traditional semantic 
meaning. This liberal attitude can be confus-
SPECTACLES
­j ne/e 1Mj’’
ing or amusing.
George Michael’s hit song, “I Want Your 
Sex” has been translated several times by 
employers of this Word Replacement Tech­
nique. My mother created one version when 
she asked, “Why is that man singing ‘I‘11 
wash your socks’?” Later in the summer I 
heard another, more hip, mother singing to 
the same tune: “I love your checks. They buy 
my food. Ooo. Ooo.”
It’s not only Mothers who participate ac­
tively in word switching. Sometimes editors 
and proofreaders switch words at random, 
often creating innovative meanings. “The 
Raven,” by Edward Allen Toe is one of the 
first works which helped establish this tradi­
tion in the world of publishing. Here is the
text, from Mr. Toe’s original manuscript
found in the Carnegie Institute.
Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pon­
dered weak and weary
Over many a quaint and curious volume of 
forgotten lore 
While I nod­
ded nearly nap-
* ping, suddenly 
there came a tap­
ping
As of some 
one loudly rap­
ping, rapping at 
my chamber 
door 
“ T i s R u n 
^ DMC,” I mut­
tered “ rapping 
on my More- 
wood floor.”
Only this and nothing more.
Ah, distinctly I remember, it was in the 
bleak September
And each separate living student brought
* all his friends to the floor
Eagerly I wished the morrow—vainly I 
had sought to borrow
From my roommate earplugs—earplugs to 
drown out the steady beat
To try to create the heavenly effect the 
angels name dull roar
Nameless here for ever more
** And the yelling screaming holler from 
each young and able lung
Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic ter­
rors never felt before;
So that now, to still the beating of my head,
I stood repeating 
“Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my 
chamber door;
Some late visitor looking for a party some- 
*r where on this floor
This it is and nothing more”
Back into my Psychology reading, to all 
experiments dull and boring.
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat 
louder than before
“Surely” said 1 “Surely that is a football
game in my corridor
Let me see, then, what Pavlov’s dog did, 
and this mystery explore
Let the noise be still a moment— tis surely 
the ATO’s next door
Yes it’s them and forty more
Open here I flung the shutter then with 
many a stumble and mutter
In there stepped a stately fellow of the 
saintly days of yore
Not the least of explanation made he, just 
stopped and stayed he,
And with the grace of a hungry boar, he 
searched around my chamber floor—
Searched the dirty laundry above my desk 
drawer
Searched then sat and nothing more.
Then this handsome boy beguiling my sad 
fancy into smiling
By the large and strange letters on the 
sweatshirt he wore
“Though thy hair be ebony and shaven, 
thou,” I said, “art sure no craven
Ghastly slim and grinning Raven wander­
ing from the noise next door
Tell me what is this entering and searching 
of my drawer?”
Quoth the Raven ‘nevermore’
But the raven still beguiling all my fancy 
with his smiling,
Straight I threw an album of “Quiet Riot” 
aiming for boy, and door
Then upon the record breaking, I betook 
myself to thinking
Fancy unto fancy thinking whether this 
drunken boy of yore
Would leave me to my studying. Or was
that what he
Meant 
in croaking 
“Nevermore”
This I sat 
engagedin 
guessing, but no 
sy llableex- 
pressing
To the 
stranger whose 
fiery eyes now
burned my diary’s core 
This and more I sat divining, with my jaw at 
ease reclining
My teeth were grating on the floor, with the 
lamplight gloating o’er
But those notes sat unread, waiting, with 
the lamplight gloating o’er
She shall study, ah, nevermore.
Then methought the air grew denser, per­
fumed from kegs galore
And songs by Motorhead caused pounding 
of the walls and floor
“Wretch,” I cried, “Thy God hath sent thee, 
by the devils he hath sent thee
Get out. Get out and let me to my memories 
of tests and score
Get out, Get out and leave me to memories 
of my S.A.T. score
Quoth the raven “Nevermore”
And the fellow never flitting, still is sitting, 
still is sitting
On the wobbly dresser amongst my dusty 
knitting
And his eyes have all the seeming of a 
demon’s that is dreaming
And the lamplight o’er him streaming, 
throws his shadow on the floor
The lamplight never reaching, to my dull 
old Plato reading,
Shall be lifted nevermore.
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Staffer iter
Three new, chaired professorships have 
been created at Carnegie Mellon. Two of 
the chairs go to psychology department 
professors Patricia A. Carpenter and Mar­
cel A. Just, whose research on reading has 
advanced the understanding of how we 
comprehend languages. The third chair 
has been awarded to Herbert T. Olds of the 
art department.
Carpenter and Just use computer technol­
ogy to track the eye movements of a reader, 
and have compiled data on how humans 
extract and comprehend the written word. 
Their book “The Psychology of Reading 
and Language Comprehension” is the re­
sult of over 10 years of research. They 
have been married for 16 years.
Earlier this year, the two received a Ca­
reer Development Award from the Na­
tional Institute of Mental Health. They are 
the first team of two researchers from the 
same institution to receive the five-year 
award.
Carpenter received her bachelor’s degree 
in psychology from the University of Iowa 
and her doctorate from Stanford Univer­
sity. She is awarded the Lee and Marge 
Gregg Professorship, named in honor of 
the late Lee W. Gregg and his wife Marge. 
Gregg was the Head of the Psychology De­
partment and Associate Dean of the Col­
iege of Humanities and Social Sciences at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Just received his bachelor’s degree in 
psychology and mathematics from McGill 
University in Montreal and his doctorate in 
psychology from Stanford. He receives the 
D.O. Hebb Professorship, which honors 
the late Professor Hebb of McGill. Hebb’s 
work as a cognitive and neurophysiologi- 
cal psychologist attained an international 
reputation.
The art department’s Professor Olds re­
ceived a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree at 
Camegie Mellon in 1960, and went on to 
obtain a Master of Fine Arts from Ohio 
University in Athens, Ohio in 1962. He is 
a past recipient of the University’s Ryan 
Teaching Award, and has taught drawing 
at CMU since 1965.
Olds will occupy the newly-created Stu- 
bnitz Chair. The chair is the first endowed 
art chair at Camegie Mellon and one of the 
few art chairs in the country, according to 
Orville M. Winsand, the head of the art de­
partment.
Dorothy Stubnitz, a former student of the 
department, recently donated the $1 mil­
lion endowment which created the chair. 
Winsand tributes Harvey Cohen, Director 
of Capital Giving for the University, with 
obtaining the award.
V.P. Given Fulbright Grant
PITTSBURGH—Keith Moore, vice 
president for University relations at Came­
gie Mellon University, has been awarded a 
Fulbright grant to study public relations and 
fund raising in Great Britain.
The award was announced by the Board of 
Foreign Scholarships and the United States 
Information Agency.
Moore will spend from January to April at 
The Open University in Milton Keynes 
near London. He will review uses of com­
puter technology and satellite television in 
public relations and fund raising at the 
university and several others in England.
While in the country he also will share 
information on institutional advancement 
procedures in the United States through 
workshops and small-group presentations.
Moore has held university and college 
advancement positions for the past 17 
years. Before entering the public relations 
field, he taught English at Burrell High 
School near Pittsburgh and was a reporter 
for the Valley News Dispatch in Tarentum, 
Pa.
Moore, his wife Janet and their three 
daughters. Kirsten, Tracy and Kelli, live on 
Burlington Road in Forest Hills, Pa.
AT&T Grants Support Research
PITTSBURGH—AT&T has awarded 
Camegie Mellon University four grants 
totaling about $200,000 for research and 
facilities improvements.
The AT&T grants included:
—$100,000 of the $500,000 the company 
has pledged goes toward construction of a 
new Electronics Technology Building;
—$58,000 to Dr. Jose M.F. Moura of the 
Electrical and Computer Engineering De­
partment for the purchase of an array proc­
essor with which to conduct research in sta­
tistical signal processing and communica­
tions;
—$35,000 to Drs. Paul K. Sides, Edmund 
I. Ko and Subhash Mahajan of the Chemical 
and Metallurgical and Materials Science
departments for the purchase and construc­
tion of apparatus to support education and 
research in advanced semiconductor mate­
rials;
—$6,000 to Dr. Paul Frattini of the 
Chemical Engineering Department for the 
purchase and construction of equipment 
used in research in rheo-optical studies of 
polymeric liquid crystalline materials.
“It is extremely important that business 
and industry continue to give its full support 
to our colleges and universities,” said 
Ronald Levy, president of AT&T Founda­
tion. “These grants specifically support dis­
ciplines we have identified as vital to the 
future of advanced technology and the 
nation’s economic viability.”
Stats Prof Receives Teaching Award
PITTSBURGH—Joel B. Greenhouse, 
assistant professor of statistics, has received 
Camegie Mellon’s highest honor for excel­
lent teaching, the 1987 William H. and 
Frances S. Ryan Teaching Award. The 
award encourages and recognizes unusual 
devotion and effectiveness in teaching 
undergraduate students.
“Joel Greenhouse is a remarkably gifted 
educator with a strong commitment to 
undergraduate education.” said Camegie 
Mellon President Richard M. Cyert. “He
displays a warmth and caring about all 
students, both inside and outside the class­
room."
Greenhouse came to the University in 
1984 after receiving his doctor’s degree in 
biostatistics at the University of Michigan. 
He holds a joint position as adjunct assistant 
professor of epidemiology and psychiatry at 
the University of Pittsburgh and has won a 
National Research Service Award in Psy­
chiatric Statistics from the National Insti­
tute of Mental Health.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—October 6,1987
Panel discussion:Is High Technology the Answer to Unemployment?
Buck Up for the 
Buckwheat Festival
OHIOPYLE—The nearly forty-year tradi­
tion of the Ohiopyle Buckwheat Festival con­
tinues on the weekend of October 9 and 10. 
The event is sponsored by the Ohiopyle 
Grange 1933 and the Ohiopyle Volunteer Fire 
Department.
Workers are prepared to serve thousands of 
homemade dinners to festival attendees. Lo­
cally grown apples are hand pressed into cider 
while you watch. Visitors can buy crafts made 
by local artisans and treats baked by local resi­
dents. Guided tours of the area can easily be ar­
ranged.
For the more athletically inclined, bicycles 
are available for rent and several groups host 
“crossfire” (survival) games. The fall foliage 
is at its peak during the festival. In addition to 
the beauty of the changing leaves, visitors can 
tour the world famous Frank Lloyd Wright 
home known as “Fallingwater” which is lo­
cated within 3 miles of the town of Ohiopyle. 
The historic site of George Washington’s 
“Fort Necessity” is a few miles to the South.
Ohiopyle is located on the banks of the 
Youghiogheny river which is the site of the 
best whitewater rafting in the eastern United 
States. Over 118,000 rafting trips were made 
last year. Camp sites, cabins, chalets, local 
rooms and rooms in national chain motels are 
available nearby.
The Buckwheat Supper menu includes: 
Buckwheat cakes, maple syrup, “Whole Hog” 
sausage, home fries, apple sauce, and a bever­
age. Buckwheat dinner prices are $2.00 for 
children and $4.50 for adults. Food is served 
Friday and Saturday from Noon until eight 
p.m.
Ohiopyle is on Route 381, easily accessible 
from the Pennsylvania Turnpike (Exits 8,9, 
and 10). For more info call 329-4981.
PITTSBURGH—Will high technology 
help solve Pittsburgh’s unemployment 
problem? This will be the topic of a panel 
discussion presented by the Pittsburgh 
Chapter of Computer Professionals for 
Social Responsibility.
The panelists will include Thomas N. 
Canfield, President and CEO, The Enter­
prise Corporation; Gordon Clark, Profes­
sor, School of Urban and Public Affairs, 
Carnegie Mellon University; Jim Gay, 
President, Expert Technologies, Incorpo­
rated; Charles McColIester, Tri-State Con­
ference on Steel; and Evan Stoddard, 
Ph.D., Director, Economic Development 
Dept., Urban Redevelopment Authority of 
Pittsburgh.
The discussion will be held Tuesday, Oc­
tober 6, 1987 at 7:30 pm in the Adamson 
Wing, Baker Hall, Carnegie Mellon Uni-
PITTSBURGH—The Pittsburgh Zoo is 
hosting the exhibit “Cargo to Extinction” un­
til December 10, 1987. Funded entirely by 
the World Wildlife Fund-US, the exhibit is 
part of its campaign to better educate the 
public about wildlife trade problems.
On display are various artifacts that were 
part of illegal shipments confiscated by the 
United States Government, such as a leopard 
pelt full of bullet holes, ivory statues made 
from an elephant’s tusk and tortoise shell 
jewel boxes. Unfortunately, the animal spe­
cies from which these items were made, as 
well as many others, are becoming much too 
rare. “Cargo to Extinction” serves as an edu-
versity. The program will consist of individual 
15-minute statements by each of the panelists, 
and then a 45-minute question/answer period 
among the panelists and with the audience.
In recent years there has been great emphasis 
on the development of high technology busi­
ness in Pittsburgh. It has been asserted that 
these businesses will enhance the area’s eco­
nomic position and help compensate for the 
loss of jobs in other industries.
The focus of this discussion will be what 
Pittsburgh can realistically expect from high 
technology business. Who will be employed 
by these businesses, who will ultimately bene­
fit from their growth, and who can expect to 
see little or no benefit? What will be the overall 
impact of high technology business and will 
there be areas in which it may do more harm 
than good? How is a change from heavy indus­
try to high technology actually accomplished?
cational reminder to the public about the 
status of many endangered species before 
they are pushed to extinction.
Zoos across the country have hosted this 
display which can now be seen in the Aqua 
Zoo lobby, which is open regular zoo hours. 
Weekday hours are 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; the 
hours on Saturdays and Sundays are from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission to the entire Zoo, 
including the World Wildlife Fund display, 
“Cargo to Extinction,” is $3.00 for adults and 
$1.00 for children, ages 2 to 15. Parking is 
$2.00 per vehicle.
For further information, call the Pittsburgh 
Zoo at 665-3639.
Computer Professionals for Social Re­
sponsibility (CPSR) is a non-profit, tax-ex­
empt, educational organization of computer 
professionals concerned about the impact of 
computer technology on society. Decisions 
on the use of this technology often have 
serious and far-reaching consequences. 
CPSR strives to provide the public with re­
alistic assessments of the power and limita­
tions of computer technology, and to en­
courage discussion, debate, and critical ex­
amination of social and technical issues 
regarding the application of this technol­
ogy.
CPSR is a national organization. This dis­
cussion is being sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
chapter of CPSR. For additional informa­
tion contact Dr. Ravi Kannan, President, 
Pittsburgh Chapter of CPSR, (412) 268- 
2586.
This week at PPG Place...
•Today, October 6: In conjunction with 
National Respiratory Care Week, free 
pulmonary function tests will be offered 
at Two PPG Place, Upper Retail Level, 
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
•Monday, October 5-Friday, October 9: 
Learn fire safpty and shop for home fire 
safety equipment in PPG Plaza. In the 
Food Court, see an exhibit of prize-win­
ning fire prevention posters, all part of 
National Fire Prevention Week. 
•Wednesday, October 7:In the Winter- 
garden from noon to 1:15p.m., pianist 
and vocalist Jeannie Allen presents 
"Jazz & Blues."
Zoo Exhibit Focuses on Extinction
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ECONOMICS
ACADEMIC WRITING
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107-B 
PH 225-B 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH5409

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 19im 13(lotoO~nfinfiT hrfl—HI njii -
Carlow Kicks Off Lecture SeriesDancers: Sign 
Up for Fall 
Classes at Alloy
1987 LECTURE SERIES
FOCUS:
WOMEN
ON ©¦AH'
WOMEN
KRESGE THEATER
10th AnniversaryL \i
Carlow College
PITTSBURGH—Faith Daniels, co-an- 
chor of the “CBS Morning News,” will be 
the first of three prominent speakers in 
Carlow College’s FOCUS: WOMEN ON 
WOMEN lecture series beginning Friday, 
October 9, at 8:00 p.m. in Kresge Theatre on 
Carlow’s campus in Oakland.
Daniels, a native of Washington, Pa., and 
former anchor and reporter at WTAE-TV 
here in Pittsburgh, joined the CBS news 
team in May, 1985. At CBS, she began by 
anchoring the newsblocks for the “Morning 
News.”
The other speakers to appear as part of the 
lecture series will include: on October 14, 
Doris Kearns Goodwin, author of the ac­
claimed biography The Fitzgeralds and The 
Kennedys: An American Saga; and on 
October 21, Mary Frances Berry, an attor­
ney, historian and reinstated commissioner 
of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
This year marks the tenth anniversary year 
for Carlow’s Focus Series, offering audi­
ences a direct expression of the special 
achievements of women.
Throughout her career, Daniels has re­
ceived many awards for her hard news 
reporting. She has been the recipient of two 
Golden Quill Honorable Mentions in 1985, 
and of the West Virginia Associated Press 
Award in 1980. In 1984, she wrote a report 
on the rights of children conceived through 
artificial insemination by donors. For the re-
port, she received the Matrix Award from the 
Pittsburgh Chapter of Women in Communica­
tions, the Golden Quill Award from the Pitts­
burgh Press Club, and the Ed King Memorial 
Award for excellence in broadcasting.
Doris Kearns Goodwin is known for bringing 
history to life through her writing. Her exami­
nation of the Fitzgeralds and Kennedys, one of 
America’s most famous dynasties, is not a 
portrait of a presidency as much as a discussion
of a family. Formerly a professor at Harvard 
University, Goodwin is also the author of 
the best-selling book Lyndon Johnson and 
the American Dream.
Mary Frances Berry is a professor of 
history and law at Howard University in 
Washington, D.C. In 1983, she was fired by 
President Reagan as a commissioner on the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights; how­
ever, she was reinstated by a Federal Dis­
trict Court affirming the independence of 
the Commission from presidential control. 
Subsequently, she was reappointed by the 
Congress to the reconstituted Commission. 
She is presently one of the leaders of the Free 
South Africa Movement. Formerly, as U.S. 
Assistant Secretary for Education in the 
Department of Health, Education and 
Welfare (HEW), Berry supervised nearly 
$ 13 billion of Federal education programs.
Berry has received numerous honorary 
doctoral degrees and several awards for her 
public service and educational activities. 
She is the recipient of the NAACP’s Roy 
Wilkins Award and Image Award and the 
Rosa Parks Award of the Southern Chris­
tian Leadership Conference.
Tickets are $3.00 per lecture. To order, 
send check, made payable to Carlow Col­
lege, to the Office of Special Programs, 
Carlow College, 3333 Fifth Avenue, Pitts­
burgh, PA 15213, or call (412) 578-6094 
for more information.
PITTSBURGH—The Dance Alloy, 
Pittsburgh's premier dance company, re­
cently announced their Fall, 1987 schedule 
of dance classes. Classes for beginning 
students through advanced dancers will be 
held at The Carnegie, 4400 Forbes Ave­
nue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Principally taught by company members, 
classes are available for both children and 
adults during morning and evening hours.
In addition to creative movement, ballet, 
jazz, modem, shape-up, and its special 
re lax-recharge class, the Alloy will be 
offering beginning tap, taught by former 
Alloy member, Patty Goldman-Maloney, 
and ballroom dancing taught by 
Pittsburgh’s finest, Howard Ziegler.
Advanced dancers may study at a profes­
sional level with the company. Company 
class is given daily by Alloy dancers and 
the Alloy’s guest choreographers.
This fall, Mark Taylor, director of Mark 
Taylor Dancers in New York City, and 
instructor at Princeton University, taught 
from September 16 to September 18th. 
Sam Costa, former director of the Ram 
Island Dance Company in Maine, and 
popular New England choreographer, 
taught from September 20 to September 
25th. Other guest artists will be an­
nounced.
To register for the classes, or to obtain 
information by mail or phone, contact the 
Dance Alloy at The Carnegie, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 15213 
or call the Alloy office at (412) 621-6670.
bOpF Fa Ass Tagi pOds Ip viIpF?
Want to write for the Tartan?uads Fa Ffs AFOcc dssFIp0want to write for Features? ¡ESLiiSSr.1““
?,3Uia$SS«T"
FOR 
WOMEN ONLY
“CONTRACEPTIVE OPTIONS”
AND
NEW WOMEN'S HEALTH PLAN/FEE
WHAT CAN OUR HEALTH CENTER 
OFFER WOMEN????
Information and Discussion: 
October 6,1987
Donner Reading Room 7:00 P.M.
October 7,1987
Morewood Rec. Room 7:00 P.M.
’cCR,’cDM
enn,u&ey&,’“ &’u
PRESENTS ITS
1987 STUDENT MINI-CONFERENCE
&
JOB FAIR
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1987 
8:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
WYNDHAM FRANKLIN PLAZA HOTEL 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA
held in conjunction with
THE NINTH ANNUAL NBMBAA 
CONFERENCE AND EXPOSITION 
OCTOBER 14-18, 1987
Minority students pursuing graduate or undergraduate dis­
ciplines are invited to a free one-day mini-conference from 
8:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Corporate representatives will 
examine:
• Selecting the Right MBA Program
• Financial Aid Sources
• Job Search and Interviewing Techniques
. . . and more!
The Job Fair will be held from 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 
p.m. Recruiters from over 100 major U.S. firms will 
be on hand to interview and recruit.
ADMISSION PRICE: A dean-typed, one page resume
i.

---------------------------------------------------

Thirteen years ago, personal computers 
had 8-bit data paths and held a paltry7 
64K RAM. Thirteen years from now, who 
knows?
We think someone at this school 
might know. And we want that someone, 
and this school, to have a shot at winning 
the exciting Apple Computer competi­
tion to Design the Personal Computer of 
the Year 2000.
So we’re having a kick-off event, to 
give any interested students, regardless 
of major, a head start. There will be a 
presentation from Apple on the program, 
its distinguished judges and dramatic 
prizes.
Join us as we begin our assault on 
the future:
Thursday, October 8th at 
4p.m. 
Wean Hall, Room 7222
For more information, contact Brad 
Myers, extension 5150.
©1987 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 21 |
Glickstein Explains Time Warp in Doherty Hall
Ó
'0
&
By BOB GLICKSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter 
One of the thrusts of Albert Einstein’s fa­
mous theory of relativity (didn’t know theories 
had thrusts, did you?) is that two inertial 
frames of reference in motion relative to each 
other perceive 
each others’ tem­
poral and spatial 
displacements as 
different from 
their own.
Let me clarify.
An event occur­
ring in an inertial 
frame of refer­
ence at a given 
location and time 
will be perceived 
from a distinct 
frame of refer­
ence to have oc­
curred at a different location and/or time, based 
upon the relative velocity between the two 
inertial frames of reference.
This should clear it up: If an event occurs at 
postion x and time t in frame reference S then 
in reference frame S’ (whose velocity relative 
to S is u) the same event occurs at position 
x'=(x-ut)/( 1 -uVc2) 1/2 
and at time
t'=(t-ux/c2)/(l -u2/c2)l/2 
where c is the speed of light.
In other words, if you’re moving faster than, 
say, Frank (keeping in mind, of course, that 
“faster” is a purely relative term), then time will 
seem to pass more slowly for you from Frank’s 
point of view. Of course, from your point of 
view time will move exactly as quickly as it 
always has (at a rate of one second per second), 
except that it’s different because Frank’s 
watching you (check your fly).
The reason I bring this up is that I had the 
occasion to witness this very phenomenon in 
action not three days ago. As I walked into 
Doherty Hall to see a movie in room 2210,1
passed a clock in the hallway. The clock re­
ported the time as 2:37.1 purchased a ticket and 
sat down in 2210. There, again, being a child 
of an industrial society and unable to help 
myself, I looked at another clock. It said 5:04! 
“How could this be?” I first thought to my­
self. I was con­
vinced that the 
time spent be­
tween the first 
clock-sighting 
and the second 
clock-sighting 
was not greater 
than 90 seconds. 
And yet the 
clocks in 
Doherty told me 
that nearly two 
and a half hours 
had elapsed. 
v***>,c*rir? Had I blacked 
out?
I turned to my movie-viewing companion, 
who wishes to remain anonymous, but let’s 
call him Wenceslaus. “Wenceslaus,” I said, 
’’did I black out in the last ninety seconds?” 
“No,” said good Wenceslaus.
That settled it. I had clearly experienced a 
Relativistic Phenomenon! Now, although it 
had seemed to me (from within my personal 
frame of reference) that I had been travelling 
at my normal walking speed of about 5 miles 
per hour, my observed speed from the point of 
vie w of a stationary bystander must have been 
vastly different. “How different?” I idly won­
dered.
The answer came to me as I sat there waiting 
for the show to begin. I recalled the formula 
(t|-t0)=(t'|-t"0)/( 1 -uVc2)1/2 from Physics II 
and did some quick mental algebra, solving 
for u (my speed relative to Doherty Hall). I 
plugged the estimated values into the formula 
((tj-^8,820 scconds, (t'1-t'0)=90 seconds, 
and c=299,290,000 meters per second [the 
speed of light]).
OWJIr-h* ben
y iz — is
l960%glJ#llU3fc. ?
)ls-
t V M Hfl L
Ltz0
P® R C S Lito
S*T\ T J ') fj X\ ') 
h >Jfc<7K * LTh 
u tz ;,t <7) t V * * £ I* f
Jls- h 12^. UrlSfëÀ£ 
£ T
Recruit Co., Ltd. employment openings currently include opportunities in 
Tokyo, New York and Los Angeles for Application Analysts, Market 
Analysts, System Engineers, Sales Engineers and Administrative 
Coordinators.
For more information, call our toll-free numbers listed below or 
write Recruit U.S.A., Inc.
e82,2
O RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.
725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor 
Los Angeles, CA 90017
TOLL FREECalifornia (800) 423-3387 
Other (800)325-9759
Say someone had been sitting in the hallway
reading Einstein’s Allgemeine Relativität­
stheorie und Bewegungsgesetz. If he had 
looked up as I passed, he wouldn’t have even 
seen a blur as I sped past him at 670,719,584 
miles per hour (99.99479% the speed of light).
I wondered how I could have reached such a 
speed when I had felt like I was only moving at 
five miles per. I attributed it to the severe slope 
of the Doherty hallway. Then I thought of the 
tremendous amount of energy it must have 
required to accelerate me to 670,719,584 miles 
per hour (and then decelerate me to zero after­
wards). Where did this energy come from? 
Was it the Tartan burger I had eaten? Perhaps 
we can do away with nuclear power plants once 
and for all if we only learn how to tap the 
potential of these unassuming sandwiches. On
the other hand, maybe I should keep my mouth 
shut. Just imagine the tremendous Tartan- 
burger-bomb the DoD would build if they 
knew about this energy source. (I’m just kid­
ding, of course. The actual solution to where 
the energy came from is left as an exercise for 
the reader.)
When I came out of 22101 passed by several 
other Doherty Hall clocks. Each one gave a 
vastly different reading, more or less confirm­
ing my theory. Recently, I began carrying a 
radar detector while walking in the streets, just 
to be safe.
Then again, maybe the clocks were wrong.
[I owe a sincere debt of gratitude to Physics 
Professor Hugh D. Young. Without his sage 
counsel, this article would have made less 
sense than it does.]
PAYlfSS
CAR RENTAL
ALSO DBA HOLIDAY“ PAYLESS* RENT-A-CAR
Our Name Says It All.
• Low Daily - Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials
• Must be 21 or over
• Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents' cards accepted.)
•15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also
• 1/2 mile from Campus 
Worldwide loi free Reservations—1-800-237-2804 or Cal Your Travel Agent
521-5700
5600 Wilkins Ave.
Pgh. Pa. 15217 
(Squirrel Hill)
Wefemture Fords Or other finte
“The Best Place 
In Town For A
Wing Out!
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to 
Death Sauce!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10 
F-S till 11 
Open Sundays - till 8
PALL*
421-WING
Our R|bs?
“Best in the City
—Mariam’s Coast to Coast Dining Quida
SkSV 
EG//ej c 
eL2’G2 
7n8“ -&MMzRIB HOUSE
Ribs • Chicken • Barbecue Specialties
cc

---------------------------------------------------

WOW!
A Jamaican Lunch just a few minutes from campus!
Embassy Caribbean Restaurant
5824 Forbes Ave. 
(between Shady & Murray Ave.
in Squirrel Hill) 
521-7770
featuring authentic Jamaican style lunches 
such as
Beef loaf platter 3.95 
Patties platter 3.25
Dumplings with Saltfish and plantains 4.50
many other delightful lunches - please call
Lunch served within 3 to 5 minutes
Got any spare change accumulating 
spooge in your room?
Well bring it to class Friday, October 9th becuase
AAA, KA@, and 0H
are sponsering a Mini-Miracle-Mile between Doherty 
and Baker Halls to raise money for:
Multiple Sclerosis 
Childrens Hospital 
and the Karin Johnson Memorial Asthma Fund

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 23 !
Even Though U!_s Six Weeks Away ;Men’s Hoops Getting Ready For Season
win, and then let them play their game. Home 
games are of particular significance in the- 
PAC, where more than one loss on the home 
court could cost a team a shot at the champion­
ship. Anderson feels that the biggest compe-| 
tition will probably come from John Carroll, 
which just keeps pulling “players out of the« 
woodwork,” and Grove City, which lost noi 
starters from last year’s team. He also notedr 
Washington and Jefferson, with a bigger andi 
stronger lineup, and Bethany as teams on thei 
rise. (
Of additional interest this year should be thei 
Tartans’ participation in the UAA as well as 
PAC. The UAA is likely to bring more na­
tional attention to Carnegie Mellon which will 
benefit from the major markets in Chicago,] 
New York, Boston, and Atlanta. Already, a» 
rivalry appears to be developing between the] 
Tartans and Rochester, which is probably i 
beneficial to both schools. Anderson looks at! 
the squad as having an improved attitude thisi 
year, but said that what he would like more 
than anything else is to see the gym packed for 
opening night. If the Tartans perform as ex­
pected. Carnegie Mellon fans will miss out on 
exciting basketball if they don’t attend.
Cross-Country 
Wins Continue
continued from page 24
Saturday’s victory. He’s already preparing for 
the conference meet, “Since we have a week 
off,_we’U have a hard week workouts thed 
we’ll taper off." As for the competition, “It's 
hard to judge the competition, but Rochester is 
my pre-race favorite.”
By DAVID WILLIS
Tartan Staffn'riter
Coming off a third place finish last season in 
the Presidents’ Athletic Conference, the Car­
negie Mellon basketball squad is looking to 
contend again this year. Coach Larry 
Anderson’s squad returns all but three of last 
year’s varsity players, fielding a strong nu­
cleus for the upcoming season.
The Tartans main strength is in the front 
court, led by senior captain Hart Coleman at 
center. Coleman was sixth in the league in 
scoring last year (15.5 points per game), and 
second in rebounding (8.9 rpg). Anderson is 
looking for him to be a dominating force on the 
boards once again this year. Ideally, Coleman 
could score 15-20 points per game, but he may 
not have to if forwards Daren Moffatt and 
Darryl Long fulfill expectations.
Moffatt will most likely see action at the 
power forward position, where Anderson 
hopes he can make significant contributions. 
Long’s athletic ability provides a great deal of 
flexibility at the other forward spot. Anderson 
can call on him to score the tough inside points, 
or have him shoot from outside where he is 
equally capable; his defensive play is an added 
plus.
Unlike last season, when injuries to Coleman 
and David Bart were nearly disastrous, this 
year’s squad has much improved depth in the 
front line. David Sikora and David Smith will 
most likely see plenty of playing time in re­
serve and should be capable of filling in for an 
injured starter. Anderson noted that Sikora 
could become the emotional leader of this 
team. His dedication in practice and aggres­
sive play are contagious and could make the 
difference in close games.
photo by Andy Oulespie
Senior captain Hart Coleman goes up for the slam. The men's basketball team is already 
getting ready for their season opener on November 20.
If there is an exploitable weakness on this 
year’s roundball team, it is in the backcourt. 
Scoring from the guard spot could be a serious 
problem, but Anderson has several options 
open to him. Look for Senior Tom Franklin, a 
four year veteran, to see most of the action at 
point guard. His talents are particularly suited 
for that position where the emphasis is on 
playmaking and not scoring. Franklin took 
just 36 shots in 22 games last year, averaging 
1.5 points per game, but can be counted on to 
be among the team leaders in assists.
Several underclassmen will compete for the 
other guard spot, with Harvey Beckham hav­
ing the inside shot at this juncture. Beckham,
a sophomore, could be the key figure in the 
Tartan’s hopes this season. Anderson believes 
all the ability is there, and hopes that more 
playing time and a year’s experience will al­
low him to emerge as a strength. Several 
freshmen will be vying for the remaining 
backcourt openings; including Mike Reed, 
Keith Morgan, and Louis Jackson.
In evaluating his team's chances for the up­
coming season, Anderson felt the keys will be 
an injury free year and strong performances 
from the frontcourt. He stressed the need for 
patience with the younger members of the 
team, and he acknowledged that his dual role 
as coach is to make the team believe they can
VILLAGE PIZZA
687-3357
MIDNIGHT MADNESS
October 6-8 and October 12-15 
1/2 OFF ALL DELIVERED ORDERS
Y)“UU dIpIdgd cai tsCI:sist aitsiA
ssions
v_
ir.i1 I'liSv-r.A.C'.vv.ik ;ii ¡roiusuhm: ' '¦ v t . y i. V V . .i i >. /. v. i \ vi v . . ;
;pi. i :0I O; 1. J W. V.*' V.* -1.
i O'- i¦ ir. iviv. v;.\c *-»i\ >•
. !............. ; _ ' ! y
> • • ¦. v .---N "r.'\
> i i..¦ W.m'v ii,..,!;, i > I. i ;. v. v.. v... ! I •. v_ i i. . : v
>
» ..»¡v. i. ..;iu i-v.v. .-.v, i. ;•. . . ‘ ( h—; C
'• • v .. ; : ... t v 11 >. . • v '* • i < i v. .’*•> . i l< in *
i ; ' . i ' iy . i • : v ‘ a.c :% ar.vi
v.'i .»i.v.. * ;v .* ¡».w*.ry v * . v.v.iu»i.\
i!**;;*'. ; u. dossier S7/SS is underway and wclcomcs literature
... . . j from any student enrolled at Carnegie Mellon.
• V \ * • * • Ì * * • Ì i * * . • \ * . . v *
* . 1 \ 1 ! .. . . *Ut! i A\*.\ .. ...! % i.
To submit work (preferably on a macintosh disk):
Ì yellow !<wy llsvii!;.’.»»; • send through campus mail to
, • • i i dossier;;tycr ¡r.iWìi kn# K .\on*:CWii;u .¡kc .i c/o The Tartan
103 Skibo
: :;;!c, * :•-'<ui ivOV, **;Oi »drop off at
.............. • ... •• The Tartan office
* i'K>% .......... Skibo room 50
... ‘ .,...........................* contactj i:c i-•*•'3*5 w;:.\ — *• MicheleOsherow
i.v .: \:o: !:as 681 8075

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24—The Tartan—October 6,1987
NSA will be <>n campus Oct 121 li 
interviewing ftrad tint i nr. seniors 
for 1*1 ni neei i n/>„ Computer Scicnce 
and Math positions Limited Summer 
positions available for those who 
have completed junior year
Tartans Run Past Hiram
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
The cross-country teams continued their 
mastery of the President's Athletic Confer­
ence on Saturday. The two squads travelled 
to Hiram to take on the Terriers in prepara­
tion for the University Athletic Association 
Championship in two weeks and the PAC 
Championships later this month.
Runners from Hiram took the number one 
spots, but Tartans in each of the races took 
the next five positions to win handily. The 
men defeated Hiram 20-43, while the women 
beat the Lady Terriers 20-41.
Hiram’s Dave Taylor ran even with Keith 
Stopen for three miles, but poured it on over 
the final two miles for the victory. Following 
Taylor across the line was last year’s PAC 
champ Dave Supp. According to Supp, “He 
(Taylor) put on an unbelievable surge in the 
the last mile.” Taylor now looks to be the 
person to beat in the PACs this year.
After Supp. a host of Tartans followed. 
Leading were: junior Pat Noll, sophomore 
Len O’Neal, and senior Paul Camine.
Tartan Head Coach Gary Meckley is start­
ing to feel better about his team’s perform­
ance. “I have a better feeling about this team 
than I did two weeks ago,” he commented. 
Camine is optimistic but warns, “We’ve got 
to make sure everyone's healthy.”
Although the Tartans will be competing at 
the Fairmont State Invitational next week, 
they’re already looking ahead towards the 
UAA Championships the following week­
end at Case Western Reserve. Four teams in 
the UAA are ranked in the top 20 of Division
III, but as Camine says, “We’d like to finish 
higher than fifth.” Supp also feels that 
there’s a special grudge against the host and 
former PAC rival Case Western. “Coach 
really wants to beat Case,” he said.
The Lady Tartans performed just as well as 
their male counterparts. Lady Terrier Missy 
Greene won the race, but was followed by the 
Carnegie Mellon trio of Pat Fall, Sue 
Johnson, and Kristin Burgard.
Lady Tartan Coach Dario Donatelli now 
has two weeks to prepare for the UAA's at 
Case. “We’re in good shape...We looked 
good as a team,” were his reactions to 
continued on page 23
V-ball Sweeps
The National Security Agency is looking. We’re in search of new professional relationships with both Mr. and Ms. Right. What we offer in return is a unique career that may well be the answer to your personal desires.What we offer is certainly different. At NSA, our threefold mission is critical to our country’s security. We process foreign intelligence infor­mation. We safeguard our government’s communications. And we secure our nation’s ‘computer systems. A mission of that propor­tion requires a diverse range of leading technology and talented professionals.Currently, NSA Is searching for Mathe­maticians, Computer Scientists, Language Specialists and Electronic Engineers.Our work with applied andpure math. They apply—and create—a host of advanoed concepts from Galois theory and combinatorics to probability theory and 
astrodynamlc8.Computer Scientists discover a variety of projects and technology that is virtually unpar­alleled. We use Utenlly acres of computers, including hardware from every major manu­facturer. Applications Include everything from oommunclatlons software to artificial 
intelligenceLanguage Specialists In Slavic, Near East, and Aslan languages contribute to our mission in many ways. N8A linguists tackle the 
challenges of translation, transcription and analysis. They use both their language skills and their knowledge of world events.
Field Hockey Splits Pair
continued from page 28
Juniata. Carnegie Mellon managed just one 
victory against West Chester 3-2, while losing 
to Gannon 3-0, Gordon 3-1, Slippery Rock 3- 
0, and Juniata 3-0.
This week’s wins put the Lady Tartans at 2- 
1 in the PAC and 8-9 overall. Games this week 
include John Carroll with LaRoche at the 
Skibo Gym tonight at 6:00 and at Hiram, on 
Friday, October 9, at 6:30.
most of the afternoon, managed to even up the 
score on a nice pass from Lisa Vandermeer to 
Maya Sternberg, who slipped by the defender 
on the far right and fired a bullet on the run past 
the goalie. Her score with five minutes left in 
the half knotted the score at 1-1 going into the 
second half.
Hiram came out smoking in the second half 
as their offense controlled the ball for most of 
the time. On one Hiram drive, a partly- 
blocked shot hit Aelan Tierney square in the 
forehead. She had to be taken out of the game, 
but fortunately didn’t suffer any serious inju­
ries. After the game had resumed, Hiram 
scored to go ahead 2-1.
The Tartans started to play well at this point 
but no matter how hard they tried, they 
couldn’t score. Hiram put the game out of 
reach with a late goal to end it at 3-1.
Earlier in the week, the field hockey team 
played Washington & Jefferson at home and 
defeated them 4-1. With the win, they upped 
their record to 4-2-1.
The game was slow-paced from the begin­
ning because the teams weren’t of equal cali­
ber. Every time the Tartans would mount a 
drive. W&J would just look to clear it away to 
chew up the clock and this resulted in lack of 
action.
Early on, Sue Moll received a centered pass 
from Sarah Fay but she missed wide to the left. 
A few minutes later she took a shot on goal 
from twenty yards out that the goalie blocked 
with her legs. But Lisa Vandermeer took the 
rebound and scored unassisted.
W&J put together their lone impressive drive 
in the game to knot the score at 1 -1 with eleven 
minutes left in the half. This seemed to snap 
the Lady Tartans out of their sluggish dol­
drums as they started to play with some inten­
sity. They put pressure on the First Ladies as 
Moll fed Vandermeer who just missed when 
the shot went wide to the right. Fay had one 
last shot in the half that was stopped on a nice 
defensive play.
The second half proved to be more exciting 
scoring-wise for the Lady Tartans. They 
quickly regained the lead when Fay hit a low, 
hard comer shot in front of the net that Moll 
flicked into the net.
Carnegie Mellon started dominating the play 
as they continually took shots on goal and put 
heavy pressure on W&J’s defense. They 
scored again as Eirene Yamamura assisted 
Vandermeer 14 minutes into the second half to 
make it 3-1. A minute later Yamamura con­
verted a Fay comer shot that Vandermeer 
assisted on to close out the scoring.
Solid defense by Hetal Nanavati made sure 
that the First Ladies didn’t score again and the 
final score was 4-1. Overall, CMU had 31 
shots on goal and W&J had five shots on goal.
Their next game will be at Washington and 
Jefferson on Oct. 8.
Rubgy Wins 3rd
Special to the Tartan
The Carnegie Mellon Rubgy Club crushed 
Hiram Saturday by the score of 32-6 to lift 
their record to 3-0. Tries were scored by Dom 
Ianno, Mike Kleha, Pete Wolcott, Brian Roth, 
Kevin Finnegan and Joe Villarreal.
National Security Agency
Attn: M322 (ABE)Ft. Meade, MD 20756-6000
NSA. The opportunities are no secret.
ep s6gOC avvaiFgpIFT sdvCaTsi“G“n“ NIFI(spAfIv is6gIist cai OvvCINOpF Opt IddcFII%OI cOdICT dsdHsiA“
By SHAFI KHAN
Tartan Stajfwriter
The Lady Tartans were riding high. They 
had just beaten a very good team in an over­
time thriller and they were in first place in the 
President’s Athletic Conference (2-0 and 3-1- 
1 overall). Then they skidded to an abrupt halt 
as Hiram hit them with a brutal 3-1 loss.
CMU had beaten Hiram earlier this season at 
home. But this was a different field, a different 
time and a different team. Hiram looked sharp 
from the beginning; their level of skill may 
have been the same, but their mental intensity 
had risen a notch. They were ready to play as 
they worked together and responded to the 
unusually large crowd that cheered them on.
Hiram played aggressively throughout the 
game as they fought after each ball. The Lady 
Tartans, on the other hand, seemed a bit flat 
after their big win against Bethany. They 
dribbled well, but were always one step behind 
Hiram in the level of play.
Hiram put steady pressure on Carnegie 
Mellon and finally scored 11 minutes into the 
first half. Back Eirene Yamamura played 
excellent defense as she broke up several of 
Hiram’s threatening drives.
The Lady Tartans, who weren’t sharp for
Electronic Engineers also find a vast array 
of specialties from Signal Processing and CAD/CAM to Speech Processing and Computer 
Security.The mission is vital, the variety staggering. And the benefits are also impressive. Our employees enjoy competitive compensation plus the many advantages of the Baltimore- 
Washington area.If you’re In search of a meaningful career with variety and distinction, look to N8A. Schedule an interview through your College Placement Office. Or write to us at the address 
below.

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page 25
Soccer Squad Splits 2 UAA Games
By JUDY GROSSMAN and SHAFI KHAN
Tartan Staffwriters
The Tartan soccer squad has had the oppor­
tunity to travel to battle University Athletic 
^1 Association rivals. Last week, the Tartans 
returned the favor hosting Case Western Re­
serve and the University of Chicago.
The Tartans took on the Spartans Wednes­
day afternoon on wind-swept Tech Field and 
lost in double overtime 1 -0.
Three injured players returned to action, 
including junior back Bob Stefanowicz. Sen­
ior co-captain Alan Mayr, who was injured in 
O last Wednesday’s Allegheny game, is under­
going arthroscopic knee surgery Friday and is 
out for the rest of the season. Mayr holds the 
school record for most points in a game (7), 
and was an all-conference selection last year. 
He will be sorely missed by the Tartan offense.
Tartans’ Head Coach Nick Gaudioso said 
that his main concern is getting all of the 
injured players healthy. The team is still 
Ta missing three of its starters, including goalie 
John Semler.
The first half was a midfield battle. The 
Tartans took only two shots on goal while the 
Spartans took none. Sophomore midfielder 
Eddie Park attempted both shots for the Tar­
tans. The second half saw six goal shots by 
Carnegie Mellon and six by Case Western. 
But neither team was able to convert their
shots, and regulation expired with the game a 
scoreless tie.
Finally, in the second overtime, with nine 
minutes left in the game, Spartan senior for­
ward George White took a pass from team­
mate Mohamed Saad and converted it into the 
game’s only goal. Case Western held off 
several late surges by the Tartans, who had 
several opportunities to score in the last nine 
minutes but failed, and the game ended a 1-0 
Spartan victory.
Gaudioso felt that his team should have come 
out with a win. “We had a couple of chances 
that we should have put away. We just 
shouldn’t have lost this game,” he said.
The men’s soccer team edged Chicago 3-2 at 
the Tech Field on Saturday in cold, blustery 
conditions. The play was very physical and 
was marked by several injuries on both teams.
Early on it was Carnegie Mellon with good 
ball control and steady pressure against Chi­
cago but it was the Maroons who scored first. 
Midfielder Andy Brown scored the first goal 
on a dribbler that just eluded keeper Glen 
Hoogerwerf. The Tartans had two drives in
which there were nice center shots but the team 
couldn’t convert on any of them. They missed 
a golden opportunity to score when Arie 
Winograd received a nice cross which pulled 
the goalie out of position but he booted it just 
wide of the net. On the succeeding drive 
midfielder Chris Kasabach went down on a 
collision with a Chicago player and injured his 
right ankle. He later returned to the game after 
being taped up by the trainers.
Chicago upped its lead to 2-0 early in the 
second half and it was set up by a nice pass to 
the midfielder who headed it in.
Camegie Mellon fought back with a nice 
tally by forward Eddie Park who scored from 
twelve yards out. He raced past a defender and 
chipped it past the goalie. The Tartans’ 
second goal came on a direct kick by Kevin 
Jung that was placed over the keeper’s out­
stretched hands.
With 13 minutes left in the game, Eddie Park 
blasted a shot over the keeper’s head into the 
far comer to put the Tartans up 3-2 . Glen 
Hoogerwerf made sure the game ended with 
that score as he preserved it with some crucial 
saves late in the game.
The Official Word
continued from page 28
that game. Because the players and the of­
ficials are students, elimination of bias is 
“not always possible given who’s ref.”
The only area that has real potential for 
dissension between the officials and the 
players is in the area of judgement calls. 
This is where the human element makes a 
large difference. Bad calls “happen no 
matter what sport—no matter who’s call­
ing,” according to Jeffries, and there isn’t 
too much that can be done about it. He feels 
that “complaints are to be expected,” and 
some problems are because the officials 
“don’t explain what they’re doing.” Jef­
fries says that he “ha[s]n’t seen any prob­
lems this year, overall.”
So should the Camegie Mellon referees 
be strung up by their toenails and be pum- 
meled with the orange cone markers? Only 
if they fit the criteria of consistently making 
bad calls, being biased, and having abso­
lutely no clue as to what the rules are. This 
screening will keep out the “cruel refe­
rees.” It can be expected that even with 
threats of death by IM equipment there will 
always be some complaints about the offi­
cials. But hey, they’re only human...
Tennis Finally 
Plays, Splits 2
continued from page 26
City where CMU was defeated 6-3. Coach 
Dave Lichtman commented, “We played well, 
( but we were just beat. Grove City played a fan­
tastic net game, and the net is one of our weak­
nesses. I think if we can have just a 10% 
improvement in our game between now and 
the PAC’s, we should be able to take the 
championship.”
After the defeat by Grove City, Camegie 
Mellon crushed John Carroll, 7-2. Apparently 
John Carroll lost a lot of people this year; this 
{ team did not have the quality of the team the 
Tartan’s faced last year. Wins were tallied at 
all single’s positions except #1 where Suzy 
Dottor struggled with last year’s #2 PAC 
champion Liz Hanna.
The big surprise, however, came at #1 
doubles where Cavanaugh and Dottor were 
defeated for the first time since they started 
playing together by Liz Hanna and Daniela 
Lungociv. Both teams had been undefeated 
before the match, yet, in an extremely close 
match John Carroll won 7-5, 5-7, 6-4. The 
team was disappointed by their loss, however, 
they will now concentrate on winning the 
PAC’s.
Coming into the stretch the women are play­
ing extremely well. Both Beth Cavanaugh and 
freshman Alice Garber remain undefeated at 
#2 and #6 respectively. Beth Cavanaugh has 
won her last 12 consecutive matches making 
her career record 13-1. Her only loss at singles 
came in her second college match last year 
against Pitt. Alice Garber has won her last four 
matches since joining the line-up against W&J 
and promises to continue to be an important 
part of the team in the future. Amy Fibus at #4 
and Tracy Boyd at #5 have only lost one match 
£ this season.
The Lady Tartans in-conference record is 
now 1-1 with the suspended match against 
Washington & Jefferson and a match against 
Thiel College still to be played. Hiram has 
refused to reschedule their earlier rained out 
match. The Lady Tartans’ overall record is 
now 4-1. The tennis team next faces Califor­
nia University of Pennsylvania at home Thurs­
day at 3:00.
Before you choose a long distance service, take a close look.
You may be thinking about 
choosing one of the newer 
carriers over AT&T in order to 
save money.
Think again.
Since January 1987, AT&T’s 
rates have dropped more than 
15% for direct-dialed out-of- 
state calls. So they’re lower than 
you probably realize. For infor­
mation on specific rates, you 
can call us at 1 800 222-0300.
And AT&T offers clear long 
distance connections, operator 
assistance, 24-hour customer 
service, and immediate credit 
for wrong numbers. Plus, you 
can use AT&T to call from 
anywhere to anywhere, all over 
the United States and to over 
250 countries.
You might be surprised at 
how good a value AT&T really 
is. So before you choose a 
long distance company, pick 
up the phone.
AT&T
The right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26—The Tartan—October 6,1987
M) MOTOROLA INC.
Semiconductor Products Sector
Tennis Survives 
Week With Split
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffer iter 
The Tartan Women’s Tennis Team just 
finished what will probably be their tough- , - 
est regular season week. After shutting out 
Robert Morris College with relative ease 
last Tuesday, the team travelled to both 
Grove City and John Carroll. Carnegie 
Mellon was defeated 5-4 by Grove City, 
proving that the Lady Wolverines are once 
again the team to beat this year in the PAC 
Championships. Two days later, the Lady 
Tartans were on the road again, this time to 
Ohio, where they defeated the John Carroll 
Blue Streaks in a 7-2 tournament.
Although Carnegie Mellon lost to Grove 
City, thus ending the Tartan’s undefeated 
streak, the women played a very tough 
match. After the singles matches, the score 
was tied 3-3. Singles wins were recorded at 
#2 singles by Beth Cavanaugh (6-4,6-4), at 
#5 by Tracy Boyd, and at #6 by newcomer 
Alice Garber. Carnegie Mellon needed two 
wins at doubles to take the tournament.
At #1 doubles, Beth Cavanaugh and Suzy 
Dottor pulled out a very close win against 
their opponents Julie Caruso and Linda 
Lex. According to Cavanaugh, “We were 
really taken by surprise. This was the 
toughest team we had ever met. They 
played very strong net and we couldn’t hit 
any winners. We just didn’t know what to 
do with them.” The team lost the first set 6- 
2; however, with a change in strategy it was 
able to pull out the rest of the match 6-1,7- 
5. When the team discovered they were not 
going to be able to get the ball past Caruso 
and Lex, they decided they would have to 
play smart, consistent tennis. “We just 
outlasted them,” Cavanaugh said.
The other doubles matches did not go as 
well. Andrea Benowitz and Tracy Boyd 
lost at #2 with a score 6-1, 6-3. Similarly, 
the freshman tandem of Alice Garber and 
Mary Beth Ashbaugh were unable to beat 
the net attack of Debra Cairns and Chris 
Martin losing their match 6-1, 6-2.
Carnegie Mellon showed great improve­
ment over last year’s match against Grove 
continued on page 25
We mean business..
Columbia University’s 
location in New York City 
makes it the ideal place for 
graduate study in busi­
ness. A representative 
from Columbia Business 
School will visit your 
campus to speak with stu­
dents from all majors who 
are interested in the 
M.B.A. and Ph.D. pro­
grams in Business as well 
as joint degrees with Law, 
International Affairs, 
Public Health and other 
disciplines. If a graduate 
degree in Business is part 
of your future, start plan­
ning for it now by talking 
with our representative. 
Contact your undergradu­
ate placement office for 
further details.
Date of visit: 
,NFaHsi kSPk'qm
ColumbiaBusinessSchool
±_________
We’ll be on campus
October 27, 1987
8gOCIcIst NaCCs0s AFgtspFA Ois Ip:IFst Fa dssF rIFf gA Opt sKvCais Ffs NOissi 
avvaiFgpIFIsA“““ Ffs Ippa:OFI:s FsNfpaCa0T“““ Ffs IptgAFiT CsOtsiAfIv FfOF IA 
EaFaiaCO•A nsdINaptgNFai liatgNFA nsNFai“
,p*NOdvgA IpFsi:IsrA rICC Hs fsCt cai 2M2uy/&ueM 2’w&’22/&’w 
EeB,/n“
bs rICC OCAa ONNsvF isAgdsA cai E2u-e’&ueM 2’w&’22/&’wP 
u,ElGy2/ nu&2’u2P Ee’G1euyG/&’w 2’w&’22/&’w Opt 
u-2E&ueM 2’w&’22/&’w vaAIFIapA“
1ai dais IpcaidOFIapP AFav HT Tagi uaCCs0s lCONsdspF ,ccINs ai riIFs Fa 
EOpO0siP uaCCs0s /sNigIFIp0 OF Ffs OvviaviIOFs OttisAA HsCar“
eiI(apO ,vvaiFgpIFIsA ysKOA ,vvaiFgpIFIsA
Motorola's Semiconductor Products Sector Motorola’s Semiconductor Products Sector
725 South Madison 1112 W. Ben White Blvd., Suite 200
Tempe, AZ 85281 Austin, TX 78704
(602) 994 6394 (800) 531-5183
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
PHI Co-Players Of_The GameYounger Players Leading Tartans
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan StaffM'riter 
Carnegie Mellon defeated the John Carroll 
Blue Streaks on a last second field goal, but 
that was only a small piece of the Tartan win. 
Inspired play by young starters has thrust 
Carnegie Mellon back into the Division III 
limelight. Scott Bamyak. a freshman half­
back, and Gale King, a sophomore center, 
have been just two of the reasons the Tartans 
are playing so well. Their play against John 
Carroll earned them PHI Co-Player of the 
Game honors.
Bamyak, a 1986 graduate of Penn-Trafford 
High in nearby Harrison City, was expecting 
to see some playing time in his first year as a 
Tartan, but he has been used much more than 
he expected. “Coach [Lackner] told me at the 
beginning of the season that I would be rotat­
ing in. I figured that I would get my share of 
playing time, but nothing more than a run here 
and there, and doing some blocking. I am just 
glad to contribute as much as I have.” 
Bamyak has seen a lot of playing time this 
year, getting the call for 16 runs from scrim­
mage for a total of 60 yards. Scott has also 
been on the receiving end of three passes, but 
the pass he caught Saturday was his most 
impressive. The catch was a 52 yard pass from 
senior quarterback Mike Hensel to Bamyak, 
who had beaten his coverage by two steps. 
“Mike (Hensel] and I read that the defense was 
putting linebacker coverage on me. On the 
play, Mike saw me in single linebacker cover­
age again, and he just hit me deep. There is no 
reason a running back can’t beat a linebacker 
in coverage.”
Bamyak also showed off his arm on a trick 
play early in the fourth quarter. Hensel pitched
PHI Co-Player of the Game Scott Barnyak 
quarter to tie the game 7-7.
the ball off to the freshman halfback, and then 
he scanned the field and let off a 36 yard pass 
to fellow freshman Rob Schmitt. “It is a play 
we don’t work on too much in practice, but it 
worked today,” remarked Bamyak. “I just put 
the ball in the air and Rob just happened to be 
in the place where the ball landed. He did a 
good job coming back to the ball.”
Gale King, a sophomore from Latrobe, has 
been the starting center since Kai Mebust went 
down with a knee injury early in camp. Gale 
faced tough competition in the first three 
games, but Saturday he faced his. toughest 
challenge in Ohio State transfer student Mark
catches a pass from Mike Hensel in the third
Sullivan. “Sullivan gave me fits the whole 
first half,” commented King. “He was doing a 
lot of stunting all day, but I handled him pretty 
well.” Sullivan was contained very well by 
King, managing only four solo tackles during 
the 40 minutes the Carroll defense played.
Bamyak also had a few words about the rest 
of the Tartan season. “We really controlled the 
game, and our wins have proved that we are 
good,” said Bamyak. “We are not looking 
ahead to Washington and Jefferson yet, but we 
would love to go into that game undefeated. 
Just one game at a time for now will be 
enough.”

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
i»
Tartan Sports Calendar
October 6: Volleyball vs John Carroll, LaRoche at Skibo Gym, 6:00 pm
Sportsline on WRCT (88.3 FM), 8:30 pm 
Guest: Former St. Louis Cardinal John Stuper 
October 7: Soccer vs U. of Rochester at Tech Field, 3:30 pm
Baseball at Butler Community College, 3:00 pm 
October 8: Field Hockey at Washington & Jefferson, 4:00 pm
October 9: Women’s Tennis at Thiel, 2:00 pm
Soccer vs Grove City at Tech Field, 3:30 pm 
Volleyball at Hiram, 6:30 pm 
October 10: Homecoming 5K Race at Panther Hollow, 8:30 am
Football vs Hiram, 2:00 pm (WRCT-FM 88.3 FM)
Men's Cross Country at Fairmont St. Invit., 11:00 am 
Rugby at Allegheny Rubgy Union Tour, at South Park
IM Standings
IM News
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Please play all games as scheduled and check 
IM Bulletin Board for make up schedules.
TENNIS
Team standings are enclosed. Commissioner 
is Mike Hayes x4086. Please play all games as 
scheduled and turn in the scores to IM office.
GOLF
On Sunday, September 27th the 1987 E. J. 
Birdy Open Intramural Golf Tournament was 
held on the Schenley Park Golf Course. When 
the last putt was in the cup, Pilam was the team 
champion followed by PhiKap and the Fear­
some Foursome.
The individual honors went to Doug Rem- 
minton of Pilam who shot a score of 73.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner—Mike Grzywinski 681 - 
2826.
WATER POLO
The Water Polo schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the room 101 gym, the IM office. 
If you have any questions pertaining to CMU 
IM Water Polo, please contact Commissioner 
Hal Levine at x5981.
FACULTY AND STAFF TENNIS
The Intramural Faculty and Staff Tennis 
Tournament is under way! The first round 
should have been played last week. Please 
play matches as scheduled and turn in results 
to IM office room 101 gym.
TEAM VOLLEYBALL
A grand total of 68 Intramural Volleyball
Teams! Included in this total number are four 
Major League Teams, 28 Intermediate League 
Teams, 32 Minor League Teams, and 4 
Women Only Teams.
Commissioner Stuart Fox x4226
BOWLING
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501. All 
games will be rolled at Strand Lanes on Satur­
day mornings at 10 a.m.
League games will start Saturday, October 
10th. One half of the bowling fees must be paid 
before the first match.
IM TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner Bob Koca x8975 informs us 
that the last day to sign up your Intramural 
Team Table Tennis team will be, Thursday 
October 8th at 4:30 p.m. Every team must 
attend a table tennis rules clinic to be held 
Thursday, October 8th at 5 p.m. in Room 201 
Skibo!
If you plan to play IM Table Tennis you must 
attend this important rules clinic!
CHESS
Commissioner is Matt Murbach x3934. 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in IM 
office. Please report your scores to Commis­
sioner Matt.
RACQUETBALL
Intramural Racquetball games will start this 
week. Please play the best out of three singles 
matches and report scores to IM office. Com­
missioner Carl Bell x5509 would like to have 
all matches played as scheduled and schedules 
can be picked up in IM office room 101 gym.
ALL SPORTS STANDING
Standings for seasons ended 10/2/87.Minors-Big 10WonLo s
PTS.SCHLAG BOYS21
SUPA 126FLINTSTONES21
Phi Kappa Theta 90DELTA UPSILONI1
Computer Science 63KDR11
Orange Dots 43THE CLAN WITH A “C”12
AFROTC 43PROUD PETE12
Old Guys 43
LYTP 39Majors IndependentsWonLoss
SDC 26DYNAMIC RAMS30
No Names 26PIKA-C20
Pi Lambda Phi 24BOSS 2ND FLOOR00
Dynamic Rams 217-ECSTACfES12
CIA 14BOINGERS02
Basketball A 14ARMY ROTC02
TOUCH FOOTBALLMinors-AllWonLoss
PILAM40
MajorsWonLossMONKEY PUS21
ATO20DTD01
CRUNCH BUNCH20MUDGE MAULERS02
BETA11LONESOME LOSERS02
PIKA-A11
GSIA02Minors-UAAWonLoss
KAPPA SIGMA02BONE CRUSHERS20
NP COMPLETIONSI0
Intermediate-EastWonLossZBTI1
EASY MONEY50MARYBELLE APTS11
ECE-DRAMS40SAE-C03
THETA XI31
PIONEERS31TENNIS
MEAT DOGHOUSE12MajorsWonL oss
CIA-A12GSIA NOT MBA20
NASAL VOMIT03PHI KAPPA THETA20
CAMPANA’S MISFITS05KSAI0
PHI KAPPA THETA03MIS-N-MATCHI0
GSIA’S BIG BOYS00
Intermediate-WestWonLossTHE B.A.M.F.01
SAE-B30GSIA PLUS01
THE SQUAD41SEI02
DEFECTS2IEUROPEAN TEAM02
SUDSUCKERS21
D.U.21Intermediate AWonLoss
THE ZOO22PILAM30
THE TWITS13THE ZOO00
M. E. GRADS03ATO00
SEI04GOLDEN SHOWERS01
CSO-B01
Minors-Pac-10WonLossTUDOR01
SIG TAU30
SMODNOCS21Intermediate BWonLos,
BEN WA BALLS21SIG TAU1>Ail •
NAVY ROTC11SUPA FUZZBUSTERSI2
AFROTC02OUR AD12
BEER TEAM03SHIRLEY SLUGS01
MUDSLINGERS0I
Minors-SECWonLossCSO-A03
CIA-B30
DRAG FORCE20CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
SCHLAG ASSYLUM22
WAWAWS III12MajorsWonLoss
ZOO1221630
AE PI03THE WAVE21
COMPUTER SCIENCE04
SPORTS DUE OCTOBER 22ND 
Darts and 3 person Volleyball.
NEXT IM BOARD MEETING 
Will be held Thursday, October 15th 1 p.rr 
in the gym conference room.
Pirates Finish Season, “Can’t Wait For ’88,;
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
THREE RIVERS STADIUM, October 4: 
The Pirates’ season ended at 3:58 pm today. 
But it was only the end of the beginning.
Eighth inning lightning out of Barry Bonds, 
Jose Lind, and Andy Van Slyke, plus an error 
by Philadelphia right fielder Milt Thompson 
propelled Pittsburgh to a 4-2 win over the 
Philadelphia Phillies in their season fmale.
After left fielder Barry Bonds snagged Steve 
Jeltz's line drive to end the game and the 
season, the exuberant crowd of 26,734 ex­
ploded into chants of “Lets Go Bucs!’' The 
Pirates acknowledged the chants by taking 
their only curtain call of the year and tossing 
their caps in the stands.
The Bucs finished at 80-82, just short of the 
lofty .500 goal set for them by General Man­
ager Syd Thrift in spring training. And by 
virtue of a 27-11 finish and final weekend 
sweep of the Philadelphia Phillies, Pittsburgh 
grabbed a tie for fourth place in the NL East.
It was also an important win for starter Mike 
Dunne. The victory moved the rookie's record 
to 13-6 and ERA to 3.03, second best in the 
National League. Dunne is a contender for NL 
Rookie of the Year honors, and finished as a
cornerstone of the Pirate starting staff.
There was champagne in the clubhouse 
Thursday night. The celebration wasn't for the 
win over the Cubs; it was for guaranteeing that 
the Bucs would not finish in the cellar for the 
first time since 1984.
Even in the final days of the season, Leyland 
couldn't resist tinkering with his lineup.
Catcher Tom Prince, who saw his future 
blocked by the solid figure of Tony Pena in 
spring training, gained a new lease on life. 
Pena departed, and prospect Reuben Ro- 
druigez had a miserable year, giving Prince his 
shot. He saw extensive work in the final 
games, and is trying to make an impression for 
next year.
Darnell Coles was trying much the same 
thing. Normally an outfielder. Coles is seeing 
time at third base due to an injury to Bobby 
Bonilla. While his fielding skills leave much 
to be desired, he has regained his batting 
stroke. The former Tiger slammed four hom­
ers and collected 10 rbi’s over the final homes- 
tand.
Also with one eye to the future, Felix Fermin 
replaced A1 Pedrique at shortstop in the final 
games. Fermin,24. played most of the year for 
the AA Harrisburg Senators and is a major
contender for the Bucs shortstop job next year.
Unlike “last days” in the past several years, 
the mood at Three Rivers is one of anticipa­
tion. Before the final game with the Phillies, 
the team sponsored a “Can't Wait For ’88" 
party.
That attitude is exemplified by the unprece­
dented 11 major leaguers heading for the Flor­
ida Instructional League right after the season.
So many players, minor and major, are head 
ing for Pirate City in Bradenton that the or 
ganization is fielding two teams in the Instruc 
tional League. That contrasts sharply witl 
1983, when Pittsburgh couldn't even affor* 
one team.
In fact, the whole organization contrast 
sharply with 1983. But the job for 1988 will tx 
to maintain the momentum created in 1987.
Special Value from Mister Donut
O'
<N
:zw
o
MISTER
oir ioir
any delicious 
Deli Sandwich
Includes homemade 
jiala d_^FRE Iwlo nu _______
OIT
our Soup 
of the Day
DONUT
PHONE ORDERS. 681 -7985
DOLLAR
OcC»*
s J a Dozen Donuts
~or~ 
a 6pak of
Muffins
v_y a Large Coffee 
and a Donut
THE BEST COFFEE IN OAKLAND
O$a
to
Ig
Ö

---------------------------------------------------

'r HATE fìA'N !
Volleyball Sweeps Week
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
Things are looking up for the Lady Tartans. 
Despite the injuries to Monica Zalevsky and 
Chris Mauro, the women’s volleyball team 
took to the road this week and returned home 
with three tallies in the win column. Carnegie 
Mellon’s victims included PAC teams Wash­
ington and Jefferson and Thiel, and non-con­
ference opponent Westminster.
On Thursday, the team travelled to Mead- 
ville, where the Lady Tartans handily defeated 
Thiel 2-0(15-6, 15-12). In the second match 
of the evening, it took Carnegie Mellon three 
games before securing the victory against 
Westminster. The Lady Tartans won the first 
game 15-10, fought back to within two points 
in the second (13-15), and came back to win 
the third game, 15-9. Carnegie Mellon got 
good hitting from freshman middle hitter 
Nicole Hanak and senior setter Marianne
Smith. There were also fewer receiving errors 
than there were last week. According to one 
player, the team played more as a team this 
week than it has in the past. The girls seem to 
realize that Zalevsky and Mauro are not there 
to take charge, and in order to do well, they 
have to do it themselves.
Washington and Jefferson College was the 
site of the Lady Tartans' first win of the week. 
Carnegie Mellon took the best of five match 
from the First Ladies 3-1 (15-9, 15-10, 6-15, 
15-7). Changes in the starting court positions 
helped the Lady Tartans play an overall better 
game. Offensively, the team made good use 
of placement shots, meaning that the ball hit 
the floor where the W&J defense wasn’t. 
Better communication on the court allowed 
for better teamwork.
Last Friday and Saturday, the Lady Tartans 
played in the Juniata College Tournament at
continued on page 24
The Official Word on The Officials Club
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter 
“Kill the Umpire!!! The Ref is out to 
lunch!!! Get some glasses!!!”
Ah, sports. It wouldn’t be a proper athletic 
contest if someone didn’t scream at the offi­
cials. Players and fans alike have developed 
this deep seated hatred of the people who 
make the calls, mainly because the officials 
can determine who wins or loses the game.
Even at Carnegie Mellon this tradition of 
“ref hatred” exists. Lately there has been 
rumor of dissatisfaction with the officials in 
IM games. It seems that some teams feel 
there is a problem with rules interpretation 
between referees and players, bad judgement 
calls and bias on the part of the officials. The 
question becomes: Why is this happening?
To be an official, a person must be an 
undergraduate or graduate student of Carne­
gie Mellon and attend rules meetings. Offi­
cials also receive four dollars per game. Ac­
cording to Pat Jeffries, President of Officials, 
the rules meetings are set up to eliminate 
problems such as interpretation by making 
clear the rules that IM adheres to. It is up to 
the officials to comprehend the game. Jef­
fries admits that interpretation could be 
helped, but that could only be done through 
a major session, but there is no time or place 
to do so. When asked if people were just 
taking the position because of the money 
involved, Jeffries said that for some “money 
is a lure, but nobody would take that harass­
ment solely for the money.” The refs must be 
people who are interested in sports and want 
to be officials for that reason.
Jeffries also explained that they try to 
eliminate bias by switching the refs accord­
ing to the game, so that if someone has an 
interest in a particular team they won’t be on
continued on page 25
The Tartan
PORT
VARSITY • IM REPORT • SPORTS FEATURES
Tartans Escape John Carroll as Time Runs Out
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor
It took only four seconds for Jim Kelly to go 
from goat to hero.
The Tartan kicker had missed field goals 
from 38,31, and again 38 yards, two of those 
in the fourth quarter. But with five seconds re­
maining, in a 7-7 deadlock against the John 
Carroll Blue Streaks, Kelly booted an 18-yard 
chip shot to give Carnegie Mellon a 10-7 
victory Saturday.
But it was a win the Tartans (3-0-1) seemed 
destined to go home without. Twice before in 
the fourth quarter, Carnegie Mellon came 
close to the John Carroll end zone. Twice the 
Blue Streaks escaped on dropped passes and 
missed field goal attempts.
It looked like the Tartans wouldn’t even get 
far enough downfield to threaten on their final 
drive. Trying to break CMU out of a 3rd and 9 
stall at his own 45 yard line, Mike Hensel set 
up to pass. But linebacker Dave Rastoka led a 
JCU rush that soon saw Hensel surrounded by 
Blue Streaks. Just as it looked like he was 
going down. Hensel connected with tight end 
Tim Kelly across the middle for a 26 yard gain.
“I was in the wrong place at the right time,” 
smiled Kelly.
After the pass, Carnegie Mellon tried to 
punch the ball in with the ground game, but 
were faced with a fourth down and less than a 
yard to go. With only :05 left in the game, 
Lackner felt he had no choice by to try for the 
field goal.
The Tartan offense had more first-half prob­
lems than usual, scoring no points and to­
talling under 100 yards. But the statistics were 
fattened up in the second half. Tartan rushers 
banded together for their first 200-yard game 
of the season, led by freshman fullback Fran 
Bellante’s 60 yards. QB Hensel passed for 121 
yards, but completed only 8 of 21 passes. One 
reason for the low completion percentage and 
the high rushing totals was that John Carroll 
concentrated their game plan on stopping 
Hensel.
“Their game plan coming into the game was 
to put pressure on me and contain me and they 
were doing it for a while,” noted Hensel.
For their part, the Tartans were most worried 
about containing the aggressive John Carroll 
defensive line, especially nose guard Mark 
Sullivan, a transfer from Ohio State. Part of
that responsibility fell on co-PHI player of the 
game Gale King.
“He was giving me fits the first half,” said the 
sophomore center. “I thought I had a decent 
first half, but a better second half.”
The John Carroll offense was the reverse, 
scoring their only seven points in the first half. 
Taking over on the Carnegie Mellon 48 after 
two sacks of Hensel and a bad Lazio Buda 
punt, the Blue Streaks had only 1:11 left in the 
half to score in.
Two passes by quarterback Greg Debeljak to 
Pete Landino moved JCU to the 26. One play 
later, Debeljak connected with fullback Tom 
Curtis at the edge of the end zone to take a 7-
0 lead into the locker room at halftime. Inter­
estingly, it was Curtis who was pushed aside 
from his primary rusher role when Landino 
transferred in from Youngstown State.
CMU got the touchdown back early in the 
third quarter. Fran Bellante and Boomer 
Schmitt (9 rushes, 38 yds.) ran the ball from 
the Tartan 31 out to midfield. Then disdaining 
the mundane, Hensel connected 52 yards deep 
with freshman halfback Scott Bamyak, who 
highstepped into the end zone. Kelly con­
nected with the extra point to make the score 7- 
7.
Bamyak, co-PHI player of the game, was a 
triple threat. He rushed for 35 yards, caught the 
touchdown, and passed 36 yards to Schmitt on 
a halfback option.
Overall, Carnegie Mellon controlled the 
tempo of the game, if not the scoring. The 
Tartans time of possession added to 41:52, 
compared to only 18:08 for the Blue Streaks.
Credit for that stat goes to the CMU defense, 
which was once again left with the task of 
keeping Carnegie Mellon in the game. Rob 
Arthur, Kent Hess, and Tom Moul all stalled 
JCU drives by picking off passes, Moul’s 
killing the Blue Streaks’ sole fourth quarter 
rally.
The Tartans also put pressure on quarterback 
Greg Debeljak, a replacement for injured 
freshman quarterback Kevin Krueger. The 
former wide receiver had to use his pass- 
catching speed all afternoon as he was fre­
quently flushed out of the pocket. But De­
beljak threw well in a hurry, completing 15 of 
30 passes, including a 23 yard touchdown 
hurled on the dead run.
John Carroll’s running game was not nearly
./Ino The rtnS «wtv/vued ¿ot% m to fwi me wfe Ns EdoAS revm^TEAM HUAIG-THEiK HCADS (N C£F£AT£r) mEzmjhu HA\JÍI\JG O/VCE fáhlÑ
&ÉÉ/V 8£At£AJ ßV Al OTUCz A/AlVRë.
photo by Andy Gillespie )
IF AT FIRST YOU DON'T SUCCEED. Jim Kelly kicks a field goal with 5 seconds to go 
to beat John Carroll after missing three earlier attempts.
as potent. Steve Prelock’s 32 yards led Blue 
Streak ground gainers, and the JCU total of 38 
was well under the 170 yard average allowed 
by the Tartan defense.
Bits and Pieces: John Carroll's Mark Sulli­
van, the 27 year-old transfer from Ohio State, 
is the last active collegian who played under 
Woody Hayes. Sullivan received a final year 
of eligibility from the NCAA to allow him to 
compete this year...Call it bad luck or just slow 
starting, but the Tartan offense has yet to score 
in the first quarter this season...Quarterback 
Mike Hensel may not have had a banner day, 
but his 1 yard pass to Bill Heiser in the second 
quarter moved him into third place on the 
Tartan all-time completions list...Although
Laszlo Buda’s average yards per punt figure is 
modest, opponents are averaging less than one 
yard per return.
Next Week: The Tartans and many alumni 
will return to Tech Field next week for the 
Homecoming contest versus Hiram (3-0, 2-0 
in PAC) College. Hiram, possessor of the most > 
potent offense in the PAC, was nationally 
ranked earlier in the season. The Terriers at­
tack is led by QB Ron Devorsky, averaging 
248 yards per game, and PAC scoring leader, 
running back Bobby Starks. Although the 
Tartan defense is tough, they cannot com­
pletely shut down the Hiram offense. This will 
be a critical week for the Tartans to put points 
on the board. J

---------------------------------------------------

D
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
IINSIDEI
y2M2L&n&,’““““““““““ lO0s RV
A day-by-day review of all the new Fall
Network programs
E,L&2n““““““““““““““““
Both The Princess Bride and Like Fa-
ther Like Son are winners
Maazel Highlights Pittsburgh Symphony Fall Season
Left: The Mendelssohn Choir will sing on 
two fall subscription concert weeks 
Below: Choir director Robert Page
will conduct the symphony and guest soloists 
are soprano Wilhelmenia Fernandez and pian­
ist Bruno Leonardo Gelber who will perform 
what some critics consider to be Schumann’s 
highest achievement. Schumann’s Piano 
Concerto was written during the first three 
years of his marriage and the influence of his 
happy home life is apparent in the romantic 
glow and exuberance in his work.
November 5, 6, 7, 8 
The Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh will 
highlight the program for November 5 at 8:00 
pm, November 6 at 8:30 pm, November 7 at 
8:00 pm, and November 8 at 2:30 pm. The 
soloist will be baritone Peter Lightfoot and 
Lorin Maazel will be conducting. The musical 
selections are Bizet’s Symphony in C, a Pitts­
burgh Symphony first performance of On 
Freedom’s Groundby William Schuman, and 
Mozart’s Overture to The Impresario. 
Mozart’s work was commissioned as a one act 
farce by Emperor Joseph II. The Overture was 
a deliberate parody of the style of Mozart’s 
competitor, Salieri, who was the Emperor’s 
favorite composer.
November 19, 20, 22 
On November 19 at 8:00 pm, November 20 
at 8:30 pm, and November 22 at 2:30 pm Yuri 
Temirkanov of the Kirov Opera in Leningrad 
will conduct the Symphony’s performance of 
Mozart’s Violin Concerto No. 3 in G major, K. 
216, Tchaikovsky’s Manfred Symphony, 
based on one of Lord Byron’s lesser known 
poems depicting a man who spends his life 
wandering in the Alps because of his unre­
quited love for a beautiful woman, and a first 
Pittsburgh performance of Dawn over the 
Moscow River from Khovanschina by Mus­
sorgsky. The feature soloist is violinist Elmar 
Oliveira.
November 27, 28, 29 
Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos of the National 
Symphony Orchestra will conduct the Sym­
phony on November 27 at 8:30 pm, November 
28 at 8:00 pm, and November 29 at 2:30 pm. 
The program for the concert is Brahms’ Piano 
Concerto No. 1, performed by pianist Andras 
Schiff, Stravinsky’s The Fairy’s Kiss Diver­
timento, and Ravel’s Bolero which, in the 
words of the composer, consists “of one long, 
very gradual crescendo.” Ravel’s composition 
caused quite a sensation in its American pre­
miere in 1929 when one critic stated it “would 
surely have been encored, even at the risk of 
mass damage of the nerves,” and Bolero con­
tinues to be a popular symphonic piece today.
continued on page D2
By LORI MAURER 
Diversions Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra concert 
season began on September 18 and will con­
tinue for a 24 week subscription series at Heinz 
Hall. The Orchestra’s vice-president and man­
aging director, Marshall W. Turkin, describes 
the season under Lorin Maazel’s leadership as 
“an exciting spectrum of music encom passing 
many of the greatest symphonic works from 
the repertoire” and states that the Symphony is 
“offering one of the finest rosters of distin­
guished concerts and illustrious performers 
anywhere.”
The ’87-’88 season under music director- 
designate Lorin Maazel will feature an array of 
guest conductors, vocal and instrumental solo­
ists and concertmasters. The season will also 
include 13 Pittsburgh Symphony first per­
formance compositions.
Lorin Maazel, who will become musical 
director of the Symphony in September of 
1988, will conduct four weeks of symphony 
concerts. Maestro Maazel will conduct four 
pieces that are Pittsburgh premieres: 
Gemiani’s Concerto grosso in G minor, Opus 
3, No. 2; George Rochberg’s Symphony No. 
6; William Schuman’s On Freedom Ground 
and Nielson’s Flute Concerto.
Notable guest conductors for the ’87-’88 
season include great Russian conductors 
Gennady Rozhdestvensky and Yuri 
Temirkanov who will be making their local 
debut appearances, Charles Dutoit of the 
Montreal Symphony, and Rafael Fruehbeck 
de Burgos of the National Symphony Orches­
tra in Washington D.C.
The Pittsburgh Symphony season will fea­
ture a variety of guest soloists. The most dis­
tinguished of these are James Galway and 
Andre Watts. Renowned flutist James Galway 
will make his subscription concert premiere 
with his solo in the Nielsen Flute Concerto. 
Andre Watts, an internationally acclaimed 
pianist, will perform the Beethoven Piano 
Concerto No. 2.
Five exceptional violinists will appear as 
guest concertmasters with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra. They are Andres 
Cardenes, Eliot Chapo, Mark Huggins, Rich­
ard Roberts and Jan Mark Sloman.
The complete ’87-'88 Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra subscription concert season for the
remainder of the semester is as follows: 
October 16,17,18 
On October 16at8:30pm,October 17 at8:00 
pm, and October 18 at 2:30 pm Lorin Maazel 
will conduct two subscription first perform­
ances of Concerto grosso in G minor, Opus 3, 
No. 2 by Geminiani and George Rochberg’s
again on October 22 at 8:00 pm, October 23 at 
8:30 pm, and October 24 at 2:30 pm. The guest 
soloist will be renowned flutist James Galway. 
The musical selections are Weber’s Overture 
to Euryanthe, Bruckner’s Symphony No. 3, 
and a Pittsburgh Symphony first performance 
of Nielsen’s Flute Concerto. Weber’ sEuryan-
Lorin Maazel will lead the PSO in four weeks of subscription concerts
Symphony No. 6. The concert will also feature 
Stravinsky’s The Rite of Spring from the 
composer’s ballet which deals with the wor­
ship of the forces of Nature by primitive man. 
Stravinsky’s composition is separated into 
two sections: the adoration of the Earth and a 
sacrifice to Nature.
October 22, 23, 24 
Lorin Maazel will conduct the Symphony
the is based on an opera which received unfa­
vorable reviews and is now rarely performed. 
The overture remains as a staple in the orches­
tral repertoire.
October 30,31, November 1 
The concert program for October 30 at 8:30 
pm, October 31 at 8:00 pm, and November 1 at 
2:30 pm includes Schumann’s Piano Concerto 
and Mahler’s Symphony No. 4. Lorin Maazel

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—October 6,1987
Af 8:00pm at the new 
Benedum Center.
Ticket Price is $6.00 
Tickets will go on sale Friday, Oct. 12 
at 9:00am at the Skibo Information Desk
A Night at the Ballet
¦MMMM
The Great Gatsby
Slides
nvIiIFgOCIFT“ liaNsAA nNgCvFgisP Opt nTdHaCIAd
Final Junior Show This Week
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions 
Tonight marks the opening of the final junior 
show for the year. On display will be the work 
of Debbie Barkun, Joanne Filmer, Kristan 
Weiss, Robin Lee Garber and Todd Bross.
Spirituality 
Debbie Barkun will be showing woodcut 
prints and mixed media drawings where she 
works with the figure and architectural struc­
tures. “I’m trying to discover something about 
the human spirit,” states Barkun. Through her
At Forbes Gallery 
This Week...
mark-making she hopes to reveal “why some 
people persevere and go on with life after great 
trauma and why some don’t.” Recently she has 
been studying the work of the Neo-Expres- 
sionist, Anselm Keifer (available at the Carne­
gie Museum), and is inspired by his use of 
texture, surface and the medium as a form. 
Also, like Keifer, Debbie hopes to put together 
a “vocabulary of symbols” in her work “with­
out being blatantly obvious.”
While in England over the summer, Barkun 
was strongly influenced by Gothic architec­
ture and the extremes of wealth and poverty. In 
regard to this she is also interested in depicting 
ruins (steel mills included) and the kind of 
spirit old architecture can emit.
Process Sculpture 
Joanne Filmer gets ideas for her sculpture 
from anything, particularly forms which in­
trigue her, but once the piece is under way it 
begins an evolutionary process. Just as she 
collages her materials, Joanne also “combines 
her ideas” so that as she works she lets the
textures, forms and surfaces she has created 
suggest new ideas and directions. Filmer will 
be showing one ceramic piece, metal and 
multi-media sculpture and cast paper. Last 
semester she began looking at the work of Eva 
Hesse and found her ideas especially akin to 
her own. In her work, Joanne is striving t<0 
achieve “a continuity, a molding. I want there 
to be a synthesis of materials even though it’s 
made up of many medias.”
Symbolism 
Kristan Weiss will be exhibiting drawings 
and paintings where she tries to use simple 
shapes, symbols and objects to show a feeling. 
While there is not a consistent theme through­
out her work, Kristan seeks to create different 
moods sparked from personal feeling. “At this 
point,” Kristan says she is “using ideas to learn 
to paint.” Mostly she is working on color; 
expanding her palette and getting them to 
“click” together. Her influences include the 
work of Bonnard for color, Gustav Klimt for 
simplicity and flatness of shapes and Milton 
Avery for both color and composition.
Ritual Objects and Nostalgia | 
Robin Lee Garber explains that she is “a 
collector. I have a habit of keeping every­
thing.” This is reflected in her work as she 
deals with old or ancient objects and their past 
histories. While not using them for their reli­
gious content, she is interested in ritual objects 
of ancient civilizations and with relating them 
back to her own culture. “I have a very ethnic 
kind of family,” states Garber, explaining tha^ 
she has often visited her relatives in Europe 
and had the opportunity to collect objects from 
Russia and Israel during her travels. Robin 
will be showing drawings and glass sculpture. 
Todd Bross was unavailable for comment.
Cimini Hair Design
2 Blocks from CMU
406 South Craig St. Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
HAIR CUT 
10 BUCKS!!
Walk-ins Welcome
PSO Fall Concert Season
continued from page D1
December 11,12,13
On December 11 at 8:30 pm, December
12 at 8:00 pm and December 13 at 2:30pm, 
Michael Tilson Thomas of the Great 
Woods Center for the Performing Arts will 
conduct a Symphony first performance of 
Dahl’s Hymn. In addition, he will conduct 
Haydn’s Cello Concerto in C, performed 
by cellist Matt Haimovitz, and 
Beethoven’s Symphony No. 6 {Pastoral). 
Beethoven’s sixth symphony was inspired 
by the composer’s love of country life. 
Beethoven treasured simplicity and felt 
that the country was the only place where 
his deafness was not an obstacle.
December 17,18,19
Michael Tilson Thomas will conduct the 
Symphony again on December 17 at 8:00 
pm, December 18 at 8:30 pm and Decem­
ber 19 at 8:00 pm. The Women of the Men­
delssohn Choir and the Children’s Festival 
Chorus will perform in Mahler’s Sym­
phony No. 3. With this symphony, Mahler 
fully established his highly individualistic 
method of symphonic composition and 
expressed his philosophies through his 
orchestral music. Mahler describes the 
emanation of the soul from soulless matter 
and relates messages that he received from 
flowers, animals, men, angels, and love in 
his work.
Now produced by Instructional Technology
Hunt Library, Lower Level x2430
Michael Tilson Thomas will conduct the last of the fall season concerts

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page D3
WRCT Reviews: Intriguing Alternative Music Albums
By MANNY THEINER AND FRANK 
BOSCOE
Special to Diversions 
As WRCT exists to serve the campus and the 
city with alternative music, it’s gratifying to 
see a positive response. We have been asked 
where in the world can one purchase the music 
played on WRCT and recommended in this 
article. The answer is in your neighborhood - 
Jim’s in Bloomfield and Eide’s on Penn 
downtown regularly stock what we play. Also, 
don’t hesitate to call us if you have any ques­
tions about what you’re listening to. Here are 
some records that intrigue us:
Einsturzende Neubauten Fünf Auf Der 
Nach Oben Offenen Richterskala (Relativity) 
This German quintet has slowly evolved from 
an industrial noise outfit to a well-oiled angst 
machine and in the process created a cult 
legion of fans. Their fifth effort is well-pro­
duced and exhibits a new dichotomy. Whereas 
in previous releases the conflict seemed to 
occur between rhythmic and melodic tenden­
cies, now the songs are constructed mainly 
either in a slow gloom or bouncy rock format. 
“Zwölf Städte” and “Zerstörte Zelle” are gru­
eling and dark. “Ich Bin’s” and “Kein 
Bestandteil Sein” hearken back to their first 
record with its metallic clanging. Then the 
other tracks offer a danceable rock beat; even 
a Grateful Dead cover is included. Altogether 
Fünf is varied and unpredictable. Put that in 
your drainpipe and smoke it. Highest position 
on WRCT Top 55: #12.
Skinny Puppy Cleanse Fold and 
Manipulate (Nettwerk/Capitol) Major label 
releases are often regarded with suspicion at 
WRCT because they tend to sacrifice quality 
and originality for mass appeal.
However, an exception can be made in the
case of Vancouver’s Skinny Puppy, which has 
successfully penetrated the mass market with 
a collection of powerful electronic dance-ori­
ented music. Some of the songs, especially 
“Addiction” and “Tear or Beat”, exhibit a 
distinct Euro-disco influence from the likes of 
Cabaret Voltaire. Others are more atmos­
pheric or simply thick, pulsating electrobeat. 
Skinny Puppy put on a multi-media horror 
show, and their fourth album should provide 
interim chills and thrills until their next tour. 
Top 55: #2.
Flux (of Pink Indians) Uncarved Block 
(One Little Indian, UK) It’s been about five 
years since the last record by Flux and the time 
has brought about a change. The music is 
essentially rock oriented and could easily 
appeal to fans of Peter Gabriel or Talking 
Heads. Percussion is heavily emphasized 
here, often to the exclusion of all else. Tribal 
rhythms ensue, evoking a primitive warlike 
environment, and echoing the dark imagery of 
the lyrics. Uncarved Block is truly amazing 
and a welcome addition to any aborigine’s 
collection. Top 55: #7.
Tar Babies Fried Milk (SST) This is the first 
full LP from the Madison, WI trio spiritually 
akin to the Minutemen. The band combines 
rock, blues and funk in a fun and furious 
manner. Nineteen songs in all are crammed 
onto the disk, a bargain at any price. Highly 
recommended for a rockin’ good time. Top 55: 
#3.
Shrubs Take Me Aside For a Midnight Ha­
rangue (Ron Johnson, UK) Another debut LP, 
this one by a London foursome. An unusual 
guitar sound dominates the album, heavy on 
the quirkiness, almost bordering on improvi­
sation. Vocalist Nick Hobbs’ multioctave 
whining lends the record a definite Captain
Beefheart quality, though that’s about as close 
as the comparisons come. The Shrubs are 
certainly one of the most challenging and 
unique bands in the UK. Top 55: #27.
Cassiber Perfect Worlds (Recommended, 
UK) Cassiber is a three man project led by 
former Henry Cow member Chris Cutler. The 
LP fits into the avant-garde Recommended 
style, combining imagination and wackiness 
in a fascinating combination. Styles range 
from sparse percussion to mystic chanting to 
squalking art-rock. An incredibly diverse 
recording created by artists stretching the 
conventional boundaries of music. Top 55: 
#6.
By a stroke of good luck, the Membranes, 
whose record we reviewed last time, will be 
appearing at the Decade on October 15. They 
had been on the visa waiting list for over two 
years, so reward them for their perseverance 
with your presence.
Other WRCT artists breezing into town in­
clude the Celibate Rifles on October 11 at the 
Decade, reggae dub poet Mutabaruka on Octo­
ber 12 at Graffiti, and blues guitarist Lonnie 
Brooks at the Decade on October 13. Also on 
October 11, three local bands of note - The 
Garden, Silent Prayer, and Lost In Eden - will 
play at the Electric Banana. Enjoy a week 
filled with great music.
This Week
Oct. 6
THE EFFECT OF GAMMA RAYS ON MAN IN THE 
MOON MARIGOLDS
Coming Soon
JUNIOR REP — 6x6
For more information call: 268-2407
STUDIO THEÀTRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama
FUTURE
TALK
If you’re talking about a future in information management, you’re talking Northern 
Telecom.
We’re the world’s largest supplier of fully digital telecommunications systems. And 
we have careers for MBA’s in our Business Systems Management and Financial 
Management Programs. Besides competitive salaries, we offer superb benefits and 
great locations.
Let’s talk about your future. A representative from our headquarters will be on your 
campus Tuesday, October 27, 1987. Contact us when we visit your campus, or consult 
your placement office. We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/h/v.
ixt
northerntclocum
P(QABEM (QILIUIB
Now you can afford our NEW NON PRIME-TIME MEMBERSHIP at half the price of 
our regular membership
CMU'S TOTAL FITNESS FACILITY
OUR EQUIPMENT INCLUDES: NAUTILUS
POWERMASTER 
DUMBBELLS 
STATIONARY BIKES
ALSO AVAILABLE: TOWEL SERVICE
CLEAN SHOWER FACILITIES 
LOCKERS
EXPERIENCED PERSONNEL ALWAYS AVAILABLE 
TO ADVISE AND ASSISIT YOU.
COME BY FOR A TOUR AND SIGN UP FOR YOUR 
COMPLIMENTARY ORIENTATION AND WORKOUT.
LOCATION: MARGARET MORRISON PLAZA 
PHONE: X-8876 CALL TO SET UP A FREE APPOINTMENT!
BRING THIS COUPON FOR THREE FREE VISITS
‘NEW MEMBERS ONLY PLEA
meiion
Thursday October 8 
6, 8:30,11
Friday October 9 
6, 8:30,11
Sunday October 11 
6, 8,10•K*w!S&
------------A
all movies shown in Doherty 2210 
$1 with CMU I.D.
$2 without fyncled by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—-The Tartan—October 6,1987
In a new series of 
informal lunch hour 
discussions, key 
Carnegie Mellon ad­
ministrators and 
faculty will tell the 
campus community 
“What’s New at 
Carnegie Mellon.” 
These one hour ses­
sions will offer:
¦ ¦ An in-depth 
look at the university’s 
new programs and 
building projects.
¦ ¦ Background 
information on major 
newspaper stories 
about Carnegie 
Mellon University.
mm An update on 
the latest policy and 
benefits changes.
Hacker Fu Gets Out of Control in Tei
“Daddy, somebody at school told me the 
labor movement is Communist. Is that 
true?”
“Of course not, Son. The labor movement 
is a great American institution. You’re too 
young to remember, but there was a time 
when football players made less than 
$200,000 a year and had to work six months 
out of the year.”
Joe Bob Goes 
to the Drive-In
“Was it greedy industrialists. Daddy?”
“It was evil men, Son. Men like Tex 
Schramm who wanted us to be slaves. Some 
days we were forced to practice, too.” 
“What’s practice, Daddy?”
“Practice is something very cruel. We had 
to get rid of practice. It was like playing a 
football game but without any network TV.” 
“Not even ESPN?”
“Not even ESPN.”
“Why did they do it, Daddy?”
“they said it was good for us. They said we 
couldn’t play the game on Sunday unless we 
agreed to slave practice.”
“Why were the games on Sunday,
Daddy?”
“In those days we played EVERY week.” 
“A whole game every week?”
“Some of them were more than three hours 
long.”
“Gee. How did you ever stand it?”
“Some of us didn’t. Son. We got injuries 
that were only worth $300,000 a year, 
instead of the $3 million we get today 
whenever we need arthroscopic surgery.” 
“Did it happen a lot, Dad?”
“It hurts me to think about it, but yes it did. 
We actually touched each other in those 
days.”
“In the middle of the game?”
“Oh yes, we tried to knock each other 
down.”
“How long did that last?”
“We finally got humane working condi­
tions in 1988. That was the first season we 
used the triangular paper football which is 
thumped from one end of a desk to another.” 
“Did you have field goals, too?”
“No, Son, we didn't actually thump field 
goals until 1992. That’s when the teams 
were enlarged to 148 players with an 
average salary of $7.2 million. And, of 
course, we finally got the six-hour work 
week.”
“Why did you do it for all those years?” 
“Why did we take the abuse? Why did we 
accept those fixed-figure salaries? It’s hard 
to explain, Son. I guess you’d have to call 
it...well...something like character. Football 
builds character.”
“Gee.”
“And of course, we loved the game.”
“I love the game, too, Daddy. Daddy?” 
“Yes, Son.”
“May I be excused? I just remembered— 
The Giants and Cowboys are on TV, and the 
Giants have a new 62-year-old rookie 
linebacker.”
“Sure, Son. You know, there was a day 
when they tried to make linebackers retire at 
58.”
Speaking of people who want everything, I 
saw this great high school sex comedy 
action adventure computer movie about 
world terrorism called “Terminal Entry,” 
which is playing about five minutes per city 
across the country. The basic idea is these 
dingbat California kids go out in the desert 
one weekend to play computer games, but 
they end up tapping into the communica­
tions network of 250 Gadhafi suicide hit 
men who all have bad beards and mossy
Patrick Labyorteaux as Bob the dorkhead
teeth. So the class nerds think it’s a game 
and start ordering people to blow Russian 
heads off and explode oil refineries and 
confuse the American government by doing 
stuff like calling up Domino’s Pizza and 
GIVING THE WRONG ADDRESS.
Unfortunately, the only people trying to 
stop the terrorists are Edward Albert, 
recently recovered from his self-inflicted 
wound in “Getting Even”; Paul Smith, 300- 
pound star of “Jungle Warriors”; and Yaphet 
Kotto, the black sidekick. Every movie for 
the past two years has to have a black 
sidekick. So these three weenies run around 
blowing up rugheads till they find out it’s 
JUST A BUNCH OF KIDS HAVING A 
LITTLE FUNSIES.
The first of these 
discussions will take 
place at 12 noon on 
Wednesday, October
7, in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo. Dis­
cussion will center 
on the latest plans 
for the University 
Center but will also 
include other topics 
of current campus 
interest.
The University 
Relations Division 
will provide free 
brown bag lunches 
for the first 75 
attendees. Pick up 
your lunch in the 
lobby of Scotland 
Yard. (You’re 
welcome to bring 
your own lunch, of 
course.) Free soda, 
coffee and tea will be 
available.
University Relations 
Carnegie Mellon University 
5017 Forbes Avenue
in Terminal Entry
If you feel that you 
want to know a lot 
more about what is 
happening at 
Carnegie Mellon, 
come to the October 
7 discussion. And 
mark your calendar 
now for the future 
sessions in the 
Wherrett Room from 
12 noon to 1 p.m. on 
Wednesday, October 
28 and Monday, 
November 23.
Faculty, staff, stu­
dents and friends are 
cordially invited.
Call it “Those Dam Nerds.” Four breasts. 
53 dead bodies. Aardvarking. Two explod­
ing cars. One exploding human. Terrorist 
pep rally. Exploding warehouse. Gratuitous 
chain saw. Kung fu. Bear trap fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for Edward 
Albert, for pulling a gun on his girlfriend 
and saying “You know, you’ve got that film- 
at-11 look in your eye again”; tracy Brooks 
Swope, the gratuitous girlfirend, for saying 
“Why don’t you just kiss me and shut me 
up”; and Patrick Labyorteaux, as Bob, for 
causing the deaths of hundreds of people by 
a computer mistake, then jumping into his 
car and saying “Bye! We’re sorry officer.” 
Two and a half stars. Joe Bob says check it 
out.
What’s
New
at
Carnegie
Mellon?
12 noon 
Wednesday 
October 7 
Wherrett Room

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page D5 i
A Close-up Look at the Fall T.V. Season
By ANGELA TAYLOR
Diversions Television Critic
Each and every year since the dawn of time, 
the American people have been tested by 
those who hold our nation’s keys to power: 
Network executives. In the summer it is pa­
tience that is tested—how many re-runs of The 
Love Boat can one person watch and still 
maintain some degree of sanity? But the real 
test comes in the Fall. It is in the fall that 
America’s intelligence is being tested. Net­
works ask themselves, ‘Will they buy a talking 
chimpanzee or an alien from Melmac who eats 
cats?’ But they also ask, ‘Will they know a 
good thing when they see it?’ This Fall is no 
different than any other, and our diligent pa­
tience has paid off; we have made it to the test 
of the New Fall Season.
¦¦¦HI SATURDAY ¦¦¦¦¦
Once a Hero—ABC. There’s this comic 
book character, Captain Justice (Jeff Lester) 
who is fading out of existence because no one^ 
reads him anymore. His mission: to cross the 
forbidden zone into the 3-D world—where he 
has no powers—and make people remember 
him. Sent to get him back is another character, 
a “private dick” called Gumshoe (Robert 
Forster), one of the few assets to the show—he 
brings sarcasm to new heights. The reason 
Captain Justice is fading out of existence, 
according to twelve-year-old Woody (Josh 
Blake) is that he’s sappy. The kid hit the nail 
on the head. Not only is he sappy, but boring. 
What could be more boring than a super hero 
with no powers, who does nothing but drink 
whole milk and preach for an hour?
Frank's Place—CBS. Frank Parrish (bril­
liantly played by Tim Reid), a Bostonian col­
lege professor, inherits from his father Chez 
Louisiane, a creole restaurant in New Orleans. 
See the Cheers analogy? It’s there, but it does 
not detract form the sincere humor of the show 
(which, praise be, is unaccompanied by a 
laugh track). The characters are a rich en­
semble of types, from legal bar-flies to loud 
chefs to curse-placing voodoo grandmothers, 
each with their own riotous Loiusiane accent. 
Another great attribute to the show is the 
chemistry, both romantic and comedic, be­
tween Reid and his real-life wife, Daphne 
Maxwell Reid (who plays lovely mortician, 
Hanna Griffin). The series was created and is 
directed by Hugh Wilson, who wrote, di­
rected, and created WKRP in Cincinnati. With 
the rich cast and humor heritage, Frank's 
Place is sure to be one of the season’s winners.
[ism sunday mmmmimi
My Two Dads—NBC. Thirteen years ago, 
Michael Taylor (Paul Reiser) and Joey Harris 
(Greg Evigan) went on Spring Break to the 
Bahamas. There they both met and fell in love 
with Marcy Bradford. Well, she apparently 
loved them both, as well, because in her will 
she leaves them shared custody of sad-eyed, 
twelve-year-old Nicole (Staci Keanan). Ei­
ther one of them could be her father, Marcy 
never kept tabs, and biologically the father is 
“indeterminate.” Sure, it happens every day. 
Marcy was also unaware of the fact that thir­
teen years later Michael and Joey hate each 
other. Michael is a financial adviser who suf­
fers heart failure when he loses his appoint-' 
ment book, and Joey is a sort of artist who lives 
in a loft with only two bottles of champagne in 
his refrigerator. It’s The Odd Couple with a 
twist. The show has some cute moments, but 
due to the mediocrity of the talent (when 
Keanan is unable to stir up any real ability, she 
falls back on a whine or a pout) and the 
writing, it isn’t worth a half-hour investment.
Dolly—ABC. In the premier episode of the 
show, Dolly Parton came on and stated her
goals: “I’m just trying to be myself.” She is. 
Dolly is warm and human and has the most 
infectious laugh in America, and she can sing. 
Unfortunately, personality is not enough to 
carry a variety show. Despite a host of big 
name guests, there is just nothing to it. There 
is a lot of singing going on, which shouldn’t 
surprise anyone, but the majority of it is 
hokey, written-for-the-occasion stuff that 
always rears its ugly head on variety shows 
(i.e., “Headlock on My Heart,” which she 
wrote because The Enquirer predicted she 
would; nobody can ever say that Dolly can’t 
laugh at herself). The skits are even more 
moronic than those on most other shows of the 
genre, and to top it off the woman can’t act. As 
much as we would like Dolly to do well, this 
is not the way.
Buck James—ABC. Dennis Weaver comes 
out of semi-retirement and returns to televi­
sion. Buck James is a crack top surgeon in 
Texas. Or, is he a tough, savvy rancher? Sur­
prise! He’s both. Things were a little boring 
around the network so they took to molds and 
blended them into to one. The result? A disas­
ter. This man is just too good to be true. He is
TUESDAY
Jake and the Fatman—CBS. Jake Styles 
(Joe Penny) is an investigator working for the 
D.A.’s office in what I would guess is Los 
Angeles. He works exclusively for the Fat­
man, J.L. McCabe (William Conrad), an 
unkempt, roly-poly D.A. The characteriza­
tions are apt. Penny is effective as a playboy 
PI, at least he looks the part. Conrad brings out 
both the sensitive and tough sides of McCabe. 
The problem here is a lack of pizazz. They, 
like other TV investigators, spend a good deal 
of the show trying to prove the guilt of the 
party they know is responsible. However, 
there is nothing outstanding about Jake and 
the Fatman. The material is there, it just needs 
to be developed further.
JJ Starbuck—NBC. Don’t Texans ever get 
tired of this? JJ Starbuck is a billionaire oil 
baron who wears a cowboy hat, boots, a bolo 
tie, and a gold nugget ring, cruises the country 
in a big white Lincoln convertible with steer 
horns on the hood, and quotes the proverbs of 
his “daddy.” Sound familiar? It should, it’s 
been done to death, in everything from
good at everything—medicine, ranching, and 
fathering. His wife walked out on him because 
he was too devoted to his work. What happens 
if we get tired of this? Is Buck also a talented 
pianist? A world class gymnast? A gourmet 
chef? It wouldn’t surprise me in the least; Buck 
James is more of a cliche machine than a 
television series. Dennis should have gone 
fishing at Tahoe.
BB£I— MONDAY — ¦
Everything s Relative—CBS. Jason Alex­
ander and John Bolger play brothers Julian 
and Scott Beeby. Julian is a divorced con­
sumer products tester (an unparalleled oppor­
tunity for TV writers to challenge their wits at 
coming up with stupid consumer products) 
who wears a suit on his day off. There is no 
mystery about why Julian is divorced; he is a 
real nudnick. Scott is your standard studly 
construction worker who keeps Levi Strauss 
in business. The Beeby boys have at least one 
thing in common: their mother, Rae. Rae is 
one of those mothers who knows everything 
even before it happens. I think she’s supposed 
to be spirited, but what she is is annoying, like 
a toothache that keeps coming back again and 
again.
last without losing the interest of the audience 
or the players?) involving career, marriage, 
and the polyester content of their shirts. At 
times the show looks like a beer commercial, 
at other times like a Beatles video, and at other 
times a soap opera. The biggest problem here 
is that this show should be a parody and isn’t. 
During very human scenes where people are 
revealing their innermost feelings, one has to 
bite one’s lip to keep from laughing at the 
incredible shallowness of the characters.
The Law and Harry McGraw—CBS. Ellie 
Maginnis (Barbara Babcock) is the law, a 
lawyer who has taken over her husband’s 
business and means to prove herself. Harry 
McGraw (Jerry Orbach) is a loose-tie private 
investigator originally seen on Murder, She 
Wrote. Harry and Ellie have offices across the 
hall from one another, and share a friendship 
that borders on romance. Harry invariably 
ends up investigating some mystery or other to 
help a client of Ellie’s. Harry is aided by his 
niece, a smart, down-to-earth, matter-of-fact 
young woman. Ellie is aided by her nephew, a 
pompous, stuffed shirt with clean fingernails 
who does not like Harry at all. And. of course, 
what detective show would be complete with­
out the hard-nosed police lieutenant making 
trouble? The show is well-acted, Babcock and 
Orbach are veterans of TV, and the mysteries 
are at least mysterious if not intense.
WEDNESDAY
MacMillan and Wife to The Flintstones. Even 
the twist—JJ’s hobby is murder —has been 
done. This is Hart to Hart from Texas or Matt 
Houston 35 years later. Beside all these han­
gups (and they are more than enough), JJ 
doesn’t really seem that skilled at crime-solv­
ing, he just gets lucky that all the criminals are 
so stupid. Case in point, Robert Conrad, 
knowing murder is JJ’s hobby, tells him that 
the spare office used to belong to a beloved 
employee who “killed herself.” Why? Any 
intelligent criminal would have just said “this 
office is empty” and left it at that. But maybe 
the ability to make criminals unwittingly 
expose themselves to another trait of the mil­
lionaire detective from Texas.
Thirtysomething—ABC. Presenting the 
tales of a generation that is “completely ful­
filled and well-paid.” Yes, friends, we are 
talking about Yuppies. The central theme of 
the show seems to be the new baby of Hope 
and Michael Stedman (Mel Harris and Ken 
Olin), who is cramping their style in a big way. 
They can’t go hiking with friends, they can’t 
go to lunch, or shopping or any of those 
people-on-the-go things. Around this central 
theme revolves several other micro-scenes (in 
the age of microwave, how long could they
The Oldest Rookie—CBS. After 25 years of 
organizing golf tournaments and accepting 
awards for the Police Department, Ike Porter 
(Paul Sorvino) gets out of the PR racket be­
cause he wants to be a “real cop.” Back to the 
academy he goes. Upon graduation he is 
teamed with a lazy, John Travolta of the 80’s, 
whose hair is too long. After about three days, 
Ike decides he doesn’t like being a real cop, 
and calls the mayor (whom he knows from his 
PR days). Just like that, he and his partner are 
detectives. I hope the press never gets hold of 
that, or the mayor is history. Since their lieu­
tenant doesn’t like them, they get auto theft 
detail instead of homicide, like they wanted 
(guess the mayor couldn’t fix everything). But 
as fate—and Nielsens—would have it, their 
auto theft turns into a homicide. Do you see the 
pattern? Anything Ike wants, he gets. The 
entire concept of the show is contrived and 
predictable. His partner says, “this isn’t 
Adam-12.” Give the man a cigar.
Hooperman—ABC. Who would have 
thought that below the stumbling, wise-crack­
ing, girl-chasing facade of Jack Tripper there 
was hidden a real actor. John Ritter has come 
leagues since his Three's Company days. 
Hooperman is hard to classify. It's a half hour, 
which leads us to believe that it is a sit-com. 
But, there is no laugh track, no insipid one- 
liners, no pratfalling. Hooperman is a San 
Francisco police inspector whose landlady 
leaves him the apartment building in which he 
lives when she is murdered. The ensemble of 
the show is great; there is an out-of-the-closet 
gay cop, a lovely lady cop (who never stops 
making passes at the gay cop), a street-hard­
ened homicide inspector, and, feeling obli­
gated to put his wife back to work, Steven 
Bochco cast Barbara Bosson as the tough-as- 
nails captain. Despite the originality of these 
characters, and the talent of the supporting 
cast, there is no doubt left as to who is the star. 
This is Ritter’s show and he has proven the 
ability to take it very far.
The Slap Maxwell Story—ABC. Poor Dab­
ney Coleman always get stuck playing the 
most detestable characters. But he is so good 
at it. Coleman is a master at characterization; 
after the first two minutes, we know who he is.
continued on page M

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6—The Tartan—October 6,1987
NBC Looks to Still Dominate Network Ratings
continued from page D5
Slap Maxwell is a sports columnist who 
spends a lot of time in court, and flat on his 
back because he steps on toes a little too often. 
He offends everyone from football players, to 
golfers, to nuns. Slap isn’t quite as obnoxious 
as some of his other parts, most notable being 
Buffalo Bill. He is arrogant, rude, and a slob, 
but he’s also slightly insecure and determined. 
Like Hooperman, Slap Maxwell is hard to 
categorize. While Slap is definitely more on 
the humorous side than is Hooperman, it is 
also lacking the earmarks of a traditional tele­
vision sit-com. I suppose we should be thank­
ful that the mould is finally being thrown 
away.
A Year in the Life—NBC. While we can 
definitely see the soap-like qualities in this 
show, it is far from the classic genre of prime­
time soaps. A Year in the Life is more of a 
family drama. The Gardners don’t have old 
secrets, mistresses, or credit at Cartier. They 
are real people with real problems, both little 
(“your cholesterol level must be off the 
charts”) and big (“you don’t care about any­
one but yourself’). The talented cast portrays 
a blend of familial relationships—parent- 
child, husband-wife, and sibling-sibling— 
with real events and real humor (“Your father 
does not make me nervous, he just makes me 
think he makes me nervous”), not the stuff 
conjured by a team of writers targeting an 
audience of teenagers. And a final word: 
Kudos to the producers for finding and casting 
Trey Ames, one of the most talented teenaged 
actors television has seen in a long time.
A Different World—NBC. On a lighter note, 
there are the misadventures of Denise Hux- 
table at college in the first spinoff of The 
Cosby Show. Denise (Lisa Bonet) has moved 
into the dorm at Hillman College with a 
twenty-six year old divorcee, and a talkative, 
hyper Army brat. While at college Denise has 
joined the Epiphany of the Week Club. Every 
week Denise comes to a realization about real 
life and growing up. The show has some cute 
lines, but they aren’t genuinely funny. I think 
they stole the laugh track from some old Carol 
Burnett shows, the audience is absolutely fall­
ing apart with laughter. Another drawback to 
this show is that Lisa Bonet, the “actress of the 
80’s,” couldn’t act her way out of a paper bag. 
Sorry, I realize that’s shocking news to some 
of you. Bonet falls way short when measured 
up against Dawnn Lewis (who plays Jaleesa)
intermittent night jobs and were willing to 
move in and help take care of his kids. His 
brother-in-law, Jesse (John Stamos) is a musi­
cian. Danny’s best friend, Joey (David 
Coulier) is a comic. In exchange for free rent, 
the guys move in to take care of little D.J., 
Stephanie, and Michelle. Not only are these 
children (D.J. and Stephanie; Michelle is an 
infant, and therefore innocent of this charge) 
sorry excuses for actresses, their characters 
are bratty, annoying children that I, for one, 
would not want to live next door to. Joey is 
annoying, too. If all comics are this obnoxious 
in real life, it’s a wonder any of them live past 
25. But aren’t these stories cute? D.J. runs 
away from home and moves into the garage. 
Everybody say “awww.” Dad goes down to 
get her. They talk, they embrace. Everybody 
say “awww.” This show promises lots of
Fall Television
WgjMÊÊÊBÊÊÊÈÊÊÊÊÊÊM
ABC —CBS —NBC
whose biggest restriction is the comball lines 
she is given.
FRIDAY
THURSDAY1
Tour of Duty—CBS. The only challenger to 
the time-tried NBC Thursday night line-up is 
the absolute antithesis of Cosby. The charac­
ters are right out of a comic book: the New 
York street tough who says killing is old hat 
for him, the timid kid from Nebraska who 
thinks he’s doing his duty, the philosophical 
youth who would much rather be at Berkeley 
protesting, the combat green officer who 
hasn’t the slightest idea of how to lead a 
platoon into battle, and the sergeant on his 
third tour whose men would follow him to 
hell. The plots, of course, deal with combat in 
Viet Nam. And that, more than anything will 
decide the fate of this show. Can viewers stand 
the death of a major character every week? Is 
America really ready to have Viet Nam 
splashed across the television screen and into 
their living room?
Wiseguy—CBS. Vinnie Terranova (Ken 
Wahl) is an undercover investigator for the 
DEA. His cover is as a thug/driver for a crime 
boss by the name of (what else?) Sonny. He is 
so far undercover that his mother thinks he has 
joined the mob and won’t speak to him. His 
brother knows, but as a priest, is sworn to 
secrecy. Undercover work is straining Vinnie 
in other ways as well. He has to deal with 
harassment from cops, flirtations from his 
boss’ niece, back-stabbing from the boss’ 
right hand man, Tony (who has a real attitude 
problem), and his own moral code. Vinnie is 
forced to weigh his cover against his personal 
sense of justice—which falls far below what is 
outlined in the Constitution: he takes part in 
the beating of a bookie, but gets squeamish 
when it comes to killing two over-eager cops. 
Wiseguy promises a lot of action, suspense, 
and machine-gun fire...and beatings. Clubs 
and sticks seem to be a very prevalent way of 
getting your message across in this show.
Full House—ABC. Danny Tanner (Bob 
Saget) is one lucky guy. When his wife died he 
just happened to know two guys who had
Award Winning Filmmaker Manny 
Kirchheimer Films to be Shown
By JOHN GINSBURG
Diversions Film Critic
Since his first film, “Claw,” in 1960, Manny 
Kirchheimer has proved his talent to the inde­
pendent film industry. This talent can be 
viewed this weekend at Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers and the Fulton Theatre.
Award-winning “Stations of the Elevated” 
will be shown this Saturday at 8:00 at Pitts­
burgh Filmmakers in Oakland. Nationally 
acclaimed “We Were So Beloved” will show 
this Sunday at 2:00 at the Fulton Theatre, 
downtown.
The first film, “Stations of the Elevated,” 
examines the graffiti on New York’s elevated 
trains. People who see and ride the trains are 
appalled and disgusted and call the graffiti 
vandalism, while they put up with the “legal­
ized vandalism” of billboards.
The graffiti messages, such as “Earth is 
Hell,” “Hell Never Dies,” and “Slave” are 
direct messages to the people outside of ghetto 
life. The billboards, however, are outnght lies, 
euphamisms promoting hamburgers and ciga­
rettes. Their artists are not expressing feel­
ings, but following orders. Yet, billboard art­
ists get paid, while graffiti artists go to jail.
A very different, poignant film, “We Were 
So Beloved,” examines the attitudes of survi­
vors of the Holocaust by interviewing resi­
dents of Washington Heights, in New York 
City, to which thousands of Germans and Jews 
emigrated between 1933 and 1941.
Family, friends, and neighbors are inter­
viewed by Kirchheimer, who fled Germany in 
1936 at the age of five. Many different atti­
tudes are examined and some are quite contra­
dictory and shocking, as the film interviews 
both Jews, who escaped Nazi Germany with 
their lives, and Germans, who were too fright­
ened by the Nazis to help Jews in peril.
Kirchheimer wants people to be disturbed 
and provoked to ask themselves what they 
would do if a minority were being threatened 
today. “A victim is not necessarily a hero,” 
Kirchheimer says. He says he wants the public 
“to evaluate each person (in the film) on indi­
vidual merit and not to generalize.”
Cost for “Stations of the Elevated” is $3.00 
and cost for “We Were So Beloved” is $4.00.
opportunities for everybody to say “awww.” 
There is some really funny stuff hidden below 
all of this sweetness, but because the show has 
a chronic case of the contrived plots, it isn’t 
worth looking for.
I Married Dora—ABC. To save his house­
keeper, Dora (Elizabeth Pena) from deporta­
tion, Peter Farrell (Daniel Hugh Kelly) offers 
to marry her. After careful deliberation, she 
accepts. This is strictly a marriage of conven­
ience: Dora still sleeps above the garage and 
still acts as a housekeeper. Good thing, after 
all, all they have in common is Peter’s chil­
dren. Pena is incredibly funny and cute as a 
pin. Kelly is acceptable and believable as a 
businessman-dad. Jason Horst, who plays 
Will Farrell, is typical of sit-com child actors. 
Juliette Lewis, who plays Kate Farrell', is a 
little on the lousy side, but it’s difficult to tell 
if it’s the fault of Lewis or of her character. 
Kate is a walking stereotype of the American 
teenager. She has bushy blonde hair, pouting 
lips, a little button nose, and is as dumb as a 
stump. Unfortunately, this generally good cast 
is the victim of a bad script. There are some 
good deliveries of good lines, but they are 
very, very, few and far, far between.
Beauty and the Beast—CBS. And now for 
something really different. Attorney Cather­
ine Chandler (Linda Hamilton) is saved from 
certain death after a gang beating by the 
mysterious man-creature, Vincent (Ron 
Perlman with a marvelous make-up job). 
Now, Catherine is an assistant D.A. well- 
trained in self-defense. She can take care of 
herself, but when the odds are too much 
against her, Vincent senses it through this t> 
spiritual rapport they’ve developed, and 
comes to the rescue. Vincent is a kind-hearted 
creature who comes from a city below the city, 
where they talk in deep, philosophical terms 
(“unspoken words are sometimes the truest”). 
Perlman is an actor of considerable talent and 
is possessed of a sensational voice; it is eerily 
calm, along the lines of Vincent Price or Orson 
Welles. Hamilton, on the other hand, is mar- I 
ginally talented with the voice of Minnie 
Mouse. This is definitely one everyone should 
see at least once, as a breather from the typical 
detective, hospital, and family shows on tele­
vision every night on the week.
Private Eye—NBC. When I heard that this 
show was an Anthony Yerkovich creation, I 
expected a cross between Miami Vice and f 
Crime Story. Much to my surprise, Private 
Eye, is a genuinely suspenseful crime-drama 
right out of Dashielle Hammett, that is a fan­
tastic addition to the pastel Friday night line­
up. Jack Cleary ( Michael Woods) is the title 
character, a former cop who took over his 
brother’s PI business when he turned up dead. 
Along with the business, Jack inherited 
Johnny Betts (Josh Brolin), a leg man with a | 
lot of street smarts, who gets beat up a lot while 
on surveillance duty. The producers use a lot 
of the technique of the classic 40’s detective 
stories. There is very little dialogue, the char­
acters (particularly Cleary and Betts) commu­
nicate with body language and meaningful 
looks. Shadows are used a lot, and every one 
has the potential of harboring a ne’er do well 
of some sort. And, wonder of wonders, Cleary ^ 
doesn’t always get his man. Sometimes the 
guilty party slips through the red tape, and all 
Jack can do is stand in the shadows, grinding 
his teeth, smoking a stub of a cigarette.
So, all of these shows get put into the great 
sifter of television, and the bad ones (and 
sometimes the good ones) fall out. And the 
good ones (and sometimes the bad ones) hang ^ 
on for a full season. But then, they get the real 
test: Does America like it enough to watch it in 
re-runs over the Summer?
Look for a review of Star Trek: The Next 
Generation in next week’s Diversions.
WRCT TOP TEN PLAYLIST
SEPTEMBER 11-25, 1987
Artist — Record — Label
1. Billy and the Boingers — “U Stink” Flexi — Little, 
Brown and Co.
2. Skinny Puppy — Cleanse, Fold & Manipulate — 
Nettwerk/Capitol
3. Tar Babies — Fried Milk — SST
4. Dead Can Dance — In the Realm of A Dying Sun — 
4AD(UK)
5. P Children — “Aura”/”Social Life” — Electro-acoustic
6. Green River — Dry As A Bone — Sup Pop
7. Cassiber — Perfect Worlds — Recommended (UK)
8. Dinosaur — You’re Living All Over Me — SST
9. Happy Flowers — My Skin Covers My Body — Home­
stead
10. Tenko — Slope — Recommended (Switz.)
Tiirn to the center of Diversions for a complete listing of 
the WRCT Schedule

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page D7
Rob Reiner’s Grown-up Fairy Tale Makes a Delightful Movie
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Film Critic
Director Rob Reiner has an uncanny ability 
to make the unlikeliest of films work. His first 
film, the rock parody This is Spinal Tap mer­
cilessly spoofed Heavy Metal music in docu­
mentary form, and in his most successful film, 
last year’s Stand by Me he did something no 
other film maker has been able to do in over ten 
years; successfully adapt a Stephen King work 
to the screen. It comes as no surprise then, that 
the director’s latest film takes a stab at another 
unconventional genre. The Princess Bride, 
based on William Goldman’s novel of the 
same name is a tongue-in-cheek tribute to the 
swashbuckler films of Hollywood’s golden 
age. It is a funny, thrilling and delightful film 
to watch.
The film (scripted by Goldman) twists the 
traditional fairy story around enough times to 
maintain interest without being confusing or 
contrived. The story begins simply enough; a 
farm maiden named Buttercup, who happens 
to be the most beautiful girl alive, is engaged 
to the handsome Prince Humperdinck. Com­
plications arise, however, when we discover 
Humperdinck’s true evil nature and 
Buttercup’s longing for her true long lost love, 
the handsome farm boy Westley, who was 
killed by pirates... or so we are told. To give 
any more away would spoil a film that in­
volves revenge, true love, international in­
trigue, pro wrestlers (Andre The Giant, in his 
first film role), swordplay, torture, suction
The Princess Bride
Directed by Rob Reiner; Written by 
William Goldman; produced by An­
drew Sheinman and Reiner; released 
by 20th Cent. Fox; rated PG 
Cast: Cry Elwes, Mandy Patinkin, 
Chris Sarandon, Andre the Giant
cups, poisoned goblets and old wizards who 
long for a good deli sandwich. Reiner is able to 
weave all of these elements into a fantastic 
adventure which delivers both laughs and 
thrills with equal ease and charm.
The film’s protagonists, Buttercup, played 
by newcomer Robin Wright, and Westley, 
played by British actor Cary Elwes, play their 
bland hero and heroine roles with a striaght 
faced dignity among the chaos which makes 
them very appealing. However, it is the sup­
porting cast which makes this film, most nota­
bly Mandy Patinkin, as the Spanish swords­
man Inigo Montoya. He is easily the best 
developed character in the film, and the one 
with which the audience sympathizes most, 
this character is strong enough to carry a film 
of his own. Patinkin endows him with a 
likeable, rougish charm which is irresistible.
The rest of the film’s supporting cast reads 
like a Who’s Who of comedy: Peter Cook from 
Britain’s Beyond The Fringe, Wallace Shawn, 
a veteran of many Woody Allen comedies, 
Billy Crystal, Peter Falk and Cristopher Guest,
Movie: Swapping Souls
By TAMMY WILLIS
Diversions Staffwriter
Picture a typical brown-haired, athletic irate 
teenager yelling at a short, cultured guilty 
father. Something seem wrong here? The 
scene is taken from Tri-Star Pictures’ Like 
Father Like Son where the son and father have 
switched bodies accidentally. This storyline 
should sound familiar because it’s the mascu­
line version of the movie Freaky Friday. And 
if you’re a Dudley Moore or Kirk Cameron 
fan, the movie will be a sure hit.
In the movie, the teenager Chris Hammond 
played by Kirk Cameron (“Growing Pains”) is 
a likeable senior in high school who is pres­
sured by his father to follow a medical profes-
Like Father Like Son
Directed by Rod Daniel; Written by 
Lome Cameron & Steven L. Bloom; 
produced by Brian Grazer & David 
Valdes; released by Tri-Star; rated PG-
13
Cast: Dudley Moore, Kirk Cameron
Dudley Moore
sion. However, unknown to his father, Chris 
becomes nauseous at the sight of a sterilized 
frog in biology class. The father is Dr. Jack 
Hammond, a heart surgeon who is favored to 
take over the Chief of Staff position at a world 
famous hospital. Widowed for several years 
now. Dr. Hammond still hasn’t been able to 
balance a relationship with his son with his 
job. Both of them suffer a common parent- 
child relationship-they can’t communicate 
with each other.
The movie begins with an introduction to 
Chris’ best friend Trigger’s uncle. It is from 
Trigger’s archaeologist uncle that the two
best known as the Bassist for Spinal Tap. 
Guest delivers the year’s stand out deadpan 
performance as the evil Count Rugen, the six 
fingered master of torture. The final Conflict 
between Guest’s Count Rugen and Patinkin's 
Inigo Montoya is the film’s greatest moment, 
pairing the film’s two best performers in a 
spine tingling confrontation.
Not everybody in the film’s cast fares as 
well. Chris Sarandon is saddled with the role 
of Prince Humperdinck. Significantly reduced 
from his stature in the novel, the character of 
Prince Humperdinck in the film comes off as 
a cowardly and unintimidating foe, a far cry 
from the original work’s mighty villain. This 
is one of the greatest flaws in The Princess 
Bride, the film’s supporting cast at times casts 
a shadow over major characters which later 
suffer because of their lack of development. 
However, because of the film’s excellent sup­
porting cast, the twists and turns the plot takes 
because of them, and bland but charming hero 
and heroine who lead them, this flaw is but a 
lingering aftertaste in what is an engaging 
story.
But the film’s cast is not the only reason for 
the film’s success. The film’s look and feel 
evokes fond memories of the films for which
it serves as a tribute while spoofing them. The 
vistas are wonderful, from the many sunrises 
and sunsets which conveniently appear at each 
romantic moment, to the Technicolor unreal­
ity of the castles, costumes and fields in the 
film, this film looks as if it came straight out of 
the late 1940’s. However. Reiner allows us to 
have fun with the conventions of the swash­
buckler genre, for example, in a scene where 
Westley and Inigo Montoya fence atop the 
Cliffs of Insanity the characters take turns in 
executing dizzying turns and leaps from a 
conveniently located tree branch wedged be­
tween two rocks. Goldman’s script is filled 
with creative insults, double meanings and 
farcical speech impediments. Mark 
Knopfler’s score provides the appropiate 
“Drama” in the film; when the music reaches 
a crescendo, we are both moved and moved to 
laughter by its obvious manipulation of our 
sensibilities.
This is the secret to The Princess Bride, it is 
a film which allows us to laugh at ourselves 
and our romantic notions of heroism while it 
feeds these very ideals. It is a gentle spoof 
which gives even the most “Sophisticated” of 
minds the opportunity to return to the thrills 
and spills of youthful adventure.
teenagers siphon a small amount of “mind 
potion” that enables a person to swap bodies. 
Accidentally, Trigger (played by Sean Astin 
“The Rites of Summer”)leaves the potion in a 
Tabasco bottle that Dr. Hammond uses to 
flavor his drink with. What happens is that 
Chris is literally put into “his father’s shoes” 
and vice versa for Dr. Hammond.
For Dr. Hammond, this bizarre event is only 
a nuisance to be tolerated until Trigger can 
contact his uncle for an anecdote; after all, 
what’s a couple days in his son’s body? He 
only has to attend high school-piece of cake. 
For Chris, all he has to do is call in sick and 
watch tv-definitely a breeze.
What both characters find out is that their 
role-reversal is harder to cope with than they 
expected. Jack attends school and unabash­
edly shows off his knowledge of medicine and 
his ignorance of teenage peer pressure. As a re­
sult, he makes his “son” an outcast. In addi­
tion, he ruins a track meet for Chris and he 
cancels his son’s chances of ever dating his 
dream girl, Lori Beaumont (Cami Cooper), the 
classic boyhood dream of blonde hair, blue 
eyes and lots of curves.
Chris, in turn, finds out what it’s like to play 
the rules in the game for advancing in a com­
petitive field. He tends to the wishes of his 
father’s boss, Dr. Armbuster (Patrick O’Neal) 
and fends off the advances of Dr. Armbuster’s 
wife played by Margaret Colin. Ultimately, he 
kills the possibility of attaining the Chief of 
Staff position for his dad.
The theme of the movie is centered around 
the understanding of lifestyles that both par­
ents and offsprings’ lead. This is a serious 
theme that is put into a comical light with 
actors Kirk Cameron and Dudley Moore. Both 
actors play their respective double roles suc­
cessfully. They have captured the essence of a 
teenager and a parent.
This Week in DH2210
Thursday, October 8
yfs yIp Rigd
The film version of Gunter Grass’s bizarre tale of a three-year-old Oskar, who refuses 
to grow because of the Nazis rise to power in Germany. Oskar expresses his outrage of the 
adult world of sex and violence by banging on a tin drum. The film has a disturbing 
dreamlike quality. It is often haunting and startling. Academy Award Winner for Best 
Foreign Film. In German with English Subtitles.
Director: Volker Schlondorff
Stars: David Bennent, Mario Adorf, Angela Winkler
Showtimes: 6,8,10
Friday, October 9
ufICtisp ac O MsAAsi wat
One of the finest films of 1986. Film adaptation of Mark Medoff’s Tony Award Winning 
Play which tells the story of a beautiful deaf girl and a unorthodox teacher of the deaf. The 
two get involved in a complicated love affair. The film treats the relationship between the 
two with refreshing simplicity.
Many touching and uplifting moments. Both William Hurt and Marlee Matlin put in 
Oscar caliber performances. Director Randa Haines presents the love story in a hauntingly 
beautiful manner.
Director: Randa Haines
Stars: William Hurt, Marlee Matlin, Piper Laurie 
Showtimes: 6,8:30,11
Saturday, October 10
­gi0COi
This film stars Whoopi Goldberg in her first starring comedic role. Although she is a very 
talented performer, the film rarely gives her a chance to show any of it The storyline, a 
stupid tale of a repentant thief suspected of a murder she didn’t commit, takes up too much 
valuable time that could have been used more usefully, like giving Whoopi room to let 
some of her own material shine through.
There are a few funny moments, but it is not really worth the effort to sit through 90 
minutes of some studio exec’s bad ideas.
Director Hugh Wilson 
Stars: Whoopi Goldberg 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, October 11
-sOt
If you loved the T.V. Monkees (Davy Jones, Michael Nesmith, Micky Dolenz, Peter 
Tork) then you will probably love their only movie. The film, co-written by Jack 
Nicholoson, was originally aimed at a more sophisticated audience than the typical 
teenybopping Monkees fan. However, the film is not high art, instead it is like a wild 
episode of the series with lots of stars in cameo roles. It is often confusing and uneven, but 
there are a few funny moments - like when the Monkees become dandruff on Victor 
Mature’s greasy hair.
The film is somewhat of a cult classic and despite its flaws, is worth a buck.
Director Bob Rafelson
Stars: The Monkees, Frank Zappa, Carol Doda 
Showtimes: 6,8,10 
By A.E. GREEN

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT Fall 1987 Schedule
SUNDAY
12:00amNight of the 
Living Emu
Dr. Tielovich
Electronic, space, experimental. 
Electrocosmic space jam. It'll 
raise you up, throw you around, 
unnerve you, and calm you 
down.
MONDAY
12:00amFamous
Tomatoes
Dan
From folk to metal, with no 
improbabilities excluded. 
Things go twang.
TUESDAY
12:00amWhite Jelly 
Fungus
George
Synth/dance, rock, mellow, and 
new. "Music with a beat, with 
an edge, and with love."
88.3 FM Stereo 
5020 Forbes Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 1* 
Request lines: 
621-WRCT or 26
WEDNE
12:00am
Acid bitter wine kiss th 
tree tops hiding the prin 
sounds of the darkened 
forest. Funky, danceable 
ambience.
3:00amIt’s Classic
Eric
Classical music in the wee 
hours of the morning.
3:00amSlots soon to 
be filled!
3:00am3:00am
6:00am6:00amMorning
Wretch
Jodi
Post-punk, punk, and independent 
new releases.
6:00am6:00am
9:00am
10:00amVanna on Your
Classic 80’s alternative 
rock, drone, and dance. 
Dreamy vowels. 
Delicious consonants.
Breath
Garrett
9:00am
10:00amPsycho Dance
Do you like a touch of the J
bizarre in the music you 
dance to? Or do you just Ike music 
that gets you outta your seat and 
jumpin' on your head? "Psycho Dance," 
for punk, blues, jazz, and dance music.
9:00amSafe Sex
Page
Jazz, fusion, and new age.
9:00am
12:00pmRadical Dada 
Music
Ovid
Chrome coated velvet 
pumpernickle, experimental, 
jazz, hardcore, poetry, 
industrial, reggae, and rock.
12:00pmMakropsychotic 
Diet
Stucco Toast
Kick the industrial 
process food habit, and cleanse 
yourself in a rite of purification 
featuring blues, experimental, noise, 
and a healthy balance of the seven 
main sound groups.
The Nuuj
Head banging, thrash core, and Chic.
12:00pm
1:00pm
Liven up your bootie - Do it to 
your Rudi! with reggae, african, 
ska, carribean. Don't play with 
strangers. Not even Billy.______
Dub Torment
Rayro
12:00pm
1:00pmMixed
Blues, punk, and rock.
3:00pmCooperative
Anarchy
Vadim
Independent cassettes, includes 
"Tape That Band," which features 
45 minutes of a different artist 
each week.
3:00pmUpper Nairobe
Debbi
A cacophony of screaming 
guitar rock, blues, jazz, and a 
plethora of other musics which 
defy classification. "Now here's 
some kick-ass jammin'!"
3:00pmSlender Regular
Queen of Radio 
Pornography
Regular fun, happy, pop, music for 
people who act like children.______
3:00pm
Face the music and he; 
experimental, jazz, and 
charring sounds. Tune ii 
weekly Crisis Concert fe 
different artist recorded
6:00pm
Newest independent 
rock and related 
releases from US and 
UK. Register here for 
common sense.
Ultraviolet
Catastrophe
Frank
6:00pmDark Rock
Stormin' Norman
A three hour excursion into the 
darker realm of modern music 
within the genre of rock and 
beyond. Sometimes its classical 
and minimal, other times it can 
be tribal. But it is always DARK.
6:00pmMontezuma's
American and European Revenge
pop, rock, gothic, dance, Brian
and Elvis impersonators.
8:30pmSports Line
The leaders in Tartan sports coverage bring 
you interviews and stimulating discussion.
6:00pmNo
Enjoy mind expansion 
without loss of short-teri 
memory with avant-gard 
jazz, and everything fr< 
be-bop to funk to punk.
9:00pm
Experimental, electronic,
and classical music......
MMMMM-GOOD.
Endive
Daniele
9:00pmDerek’s Club
Mr. Glich
Electronic, rock, and sometimes 
disturbing sounds.
9:00pmSirens and 
Silences
Elisa
Open your ears to the 
sounds of jazz, experimental, 
rock, and folk.
9:00pm
Does your life feel like 
of endless nothingness? 
into the abyss, only to 
you? Help relieve your 
and purify your motives 
"Lunatic Fugue" with eli 
classical, and highland

---------------------------------------------------

reo
Ave,
A 15213
3.
r 26^ 2883
Cries and 
Whispers
Sally
;ÌS5 tht
e primal
<èned
:eable
The WRCT Radio Calendar 
and Concert List can be heard 
daily at 8am, 1pm, 7pm, and 
11pm.
ESDAY THURSDAY
12:00amNext 13 
Miles
Crow
Psychedelic rock and California sounds.
The WRCT News can be 
heard everyday at 5pm and 
9pm.
FRIDAY
12:00amRap, Rock, 
and Reggae
Lalit
Pretty self-explanatory.
WRCT will begin broadcasting 
a 24-hour schedule in the near 
future. WRCT is funded by 
your Student Activities Fee.
SATURDAY
12:00amMoon-Base
Alpha
Yary
On Friday night conditions are 
right to tune in Moon-Base 
Aplha. Listen in bewilderment as 
electro-dance degenerates into 
droning noise. _____
3:00am3:00am3:00am
jjjSfc 6:00am ~ '¦E 6.00am ¦¦ , _6:00am
mm
ixed-Up Madness
Sean
ock.
Fear Is Never 
Boring
Lisa
id hear the blues, 
and other soul- 
une in for a 
;ert featuring a 
rded ¡ive.
Not Necessarily 
Stoned, But 
' Beautiful
Daveîion
Drt-term 
t-garde, 
ing from 
punk.
9:00am
12:00pmIs it Dead 
Yet?
Angelo
Do you have nerve endings?
If not, then listen to Angelo for a varied 
and sundry potpourri of brain stompin' 
experimental and industrial.____________
3:00pmSpitting
Deviations
Hank
He's not your father or your 
brother, and if you listen to 
your sister, she'll tell you to 
listen to Hank's choice of 
industrial, minimal, electronic, 
and alternative dance music.
6:00pmFunk
Dungeon
Ishtar
Experience angst and suffering at 
the hands of Ishtar, mistress of the 
"Funk Dungeon" with the best in 
alternative rock.
9:00amStewed Jazz
Stew
Your chef Stew serves up the freshest 
and tastiest jazz in Pittsburgh, including 
prime cuts of the album du jour.______
12:00pmYo Mama
Nuuj
Do U work nights, or are you just lazy? 
"Yo Mama" will blast U with that chunk- 
wail, bone-crush, wang-groove-thang.
2:00pmEcco Homo
Josh
Can you find your way to the 
Pittsburgh zoo? Learn how by tuning 
in to "Ecco Homo" for a cavalcade of 
be-bop and vocal jazz.______________
5:00pm
Ambient, dark music.
Elle
7:00pmSchizoid 
Cowboy Hour
Music for that little Ken
stirrup-in your ear. Classic country, 
cowpunk, cajun swamp music, polkas 
and other alien rhythms.________________
9:00am
10:30amCheap Laughs
Mike
Are you sick of Saturday morning cartoons? 
Do you need something entertaining that will 
jump start your thought processes? The latest 
in the world of comedy.
11:00amElegy
Michele
New, minimal, and experimental 
musics, "Music as big as your hair."
3:00pm
If fish gives you 
indigestion, maybe you need 
more dairy products in your diet. 
Sample Cheeses of Nazareth for 
hardcore, industrial, experimental, 
and rock.
Cheeses of
Nazareth
Slumpy and 
Cartridge
6:00pmJazz and
Looking for a way to Computer
get a computer science Science
education and hear cool jazz Melodius 
at the same time? Listen to Thunk
Mel for the newest and oldest in 
jazz, plus a recap of his computer 
science lectures of the week. Take 
notes, there may be a pop quiz!
Lb.latic Fugue
Vindicator
I like a vast slime pit 
ness? Have you gazed 
ly to find it gazing into 
your karmic burden 
otives by harkening to 
ith electronic, gothic, 
iland hardcore.
9:00pmSpermblast
Ralph the Wonder 
Llama and Lenny
The worship of things with strings, be 
they four or six; punk, new rock, metal, 
oil, loud guitars, and noisy crud.________
9:00pmShameless
Noise
Simon
Destroy your hearing, listen to 
music that insults the intelligence 
of a flea. Hardcore, thrash, metal, 
self-indulgent guitar feedback and 
brain smashing drums are featured.
9:00pmSpastic Music for 
Spastic Children
Marcela
Metal (speed and sludge), thrash, 
hardcore, Bananarama, Cheap Trick, 
and the blues.

---------------------------------------------------

Paj*e DIO—The Tartan—October 6,1987
Smokey Robinson to Appear at the Mosque on Sunday
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffer iter 
Motown legend, Smokey Robinson, will 
appear at the Syria Mosque on Sunday, Octo­
ber 11. Robinson, noted for such hits as “Shop 
Around,” “You’ve Really Got A Hold On 
Me,” “Tracks Of My Tears,” and “Tears of a 
Clown,” will be promoting his new album, 
One Heartbeat, featuring his hit single of the 
same name.
William “Smokey” Robinson, a Detroit na­
tive, began his career under the auspices of 
Berry Gordy, founder of the Motown record­
ing label. Smokey says of his early days with 
Gordy that, “At Motown we tried to combine 
rhythm & blues and pop, jelling the two into a 
unified sound. We wanted to tell stories that 
would touch everyone, black and white.” 
Smokey Robinson and the Miracles had their 
first hit with “Shop Around.” A succession of 
hits followed, and Robinson continued to 
develop his songwriting abilities with his own 
music and by contributing to hits by other 
Motown artists such as Mary Wells, the 
Temptations, and Marvin Gaye. Robinson’s 
songs were influenced by his real life experi­
ences. Smokey’s motivation to write “I Sec­
ond That Emotion” came from a verbal slip 
that a friend made in a Detroit department 
store. Stevie Wonder inspired Robinson to 
write “Tears of a Clown” because Smokey 
thought Wonder to be similar to Pagliacci, a
clown who hid his own sadness by making 
others laugh. Robinson defines his song- 
writing abilities as “a gift from God” and 
hopes that his songs will continue to be re­
corded by other artists. Diverse musicians 
such as the Beatles, Michael Jackson, Aretha 
Franklin, Frank Sinatra and Blondie have 
covered Robinson’s music during the past 25 
years.
Smokey Robinson broke away from the 
Miracles in the early 70’s to begin his solo 
musical career which has spawned such hits as 
“Being with You” and “Cruisin’.” He was 
recently inducted into the Rock ‘n’ Roll Hall of 
Fame, earning him an eternal niche in the 
history of American music. Robinson says 
that his songwriting has been altered by the 
course of time but asserts that “The evolution 
is natural, there is something that will never 
change - a good song is a good song is a good 
song!” After his successful and enduring 25 
year career, Smokey’s mastery of “good 
songs” is apparent and he certainly has an 
abundant supply of material to perform in 
concert.
Tickets for Smokey Robinson's performance 
on October 11 at the Syria Mosque are $22.50 
and are available at the Syria Mosque box 
office Monday through Friday 10-6, and at 
Kaufmann s, National Record Mart, Oasis 
Record Stores, Record Outlet, the Listening 
Post, and Heads Together.Popular with all age groups, Smokey Robinson is one the most successful Motown artists
Poetry Forum Begins With D.H. Lawrence
By LORI MAURER
Diversions StaffM riter
The 1987-88 International Poetry Forum 
will begin on October 7 and continue until 
April 13. Three readings will take place during 
the fall semester featuring the poetry of D.H. 
Lawrence and contemporary poets, Irving 
Layton, Carol Jane Bangs and Sue Ellen 
Thompson.
On October 7, one of Canada’s foremost 
poets, Irving Layton, will read his works. 
Layton is the author of over 40 books of poems 
and a Nobel nominee. He is noted for the 
energy and vitality of his work which is tradi­
tionalist in technique yet unconventional in 
subject matter and his harsh and angry im­
agery. Layton’s poems express his varied 
moods and passions and examine the relation­
ships between humanity and nature. In addi­
tion to being nominated for the Nobel Prize, 
Layton received the Governor General’s 
Award in 1959 for A Red Carpet in the Sun .
Carol Jane Bangs and Sue Ellen Thompson 
will read their poems on November 4. Carol 
Jane Bangs is the author of The Bones of the 
Earth which deals with basic themes such as 
birth, death, ancestry, childbearing, love and 
work. Bangs is strongly influenced by her 
home in the Pacific Northwest where her 
family has lived for four generations. She 
describes this area of the country with power­
ful imagery and makes analogies between her 
environment and life. Bangs also examines 
human intimacy and the feminine experience. 
She resides in Port Townsend, Washington 
and directs literature programs for the Cen­
trum Foundation there.
Sue Ellen Thompson, a native of Mystic,
One of the most political reggae singers since Bob Marley, Mutabaruk will bring his 
mellow sounds to Graffiti on Monday, October 12 at 8:00. Call 682-4210 for info.
Connecticut, will also read her poetry on 
November 4. Thompson won the Samuel 
French Morse prize for her first book This 
Body of Silk and also won first prize in the 
National Writing Award in 1984.
On December 9, the Poetry Forum will pres­
ent its last reading for the fall semester. This 
reading will feature the poems of D.H. Law­
rence read by best actress Academy Award 
winner, Ellen Burstyn. Lawrence, an English 
novelist, short story writer, poet, essayist and 
critic, is primarily known for his novels Lady 
Chatterly's Lover and Sons and Lovers . He 
was a controversial figure in his lifetime be­
cause of the explicit sexuality of his work. 
Lawrence used sexuality as a symbol of life as 
opposed to the dehumanizing affects of indus­
trialization. In his poems, he delved into the 
psychological mysteries of love and desire and 
was more concerned with expressing moods 
than ideas and the physical instead of the 
spiritual. D.H. Lawrence, who died of tuber­
culosis in 1930, is now considered to be one of 
the twentieth century’s most significant nov­
elists.
All three readings will be at 8 P.M. in Carne­
gie Lecture Hall. Tickets are $8 and $4.50 for 
students and senior citizens and $ 10 and $6 for 
the December 9 reading by Ellen Burstyn. 
Subscription prices for the entire year (which 
includes 6 readings) are $45 and $25. For more 
information, call the Forum office at 621 - 
9893.
&pFsisAFst Ip riIFIp0 OHagF Ffs 
OiFA? -ar OHagF -sOr EsFOC? 
,i dOTHsP FfsOFsi? &c Tag Ois 
IpFsisAFst Ip r iIFIp0 OHagF OpT 
OAvsNF ac spFsiFOIpdspF Ffsp 
AFav HT Ffs“““
Diversions 
Staff Meeting
ygsAtOTP ,NFaHsi > (a qWUU vd 
eCC AFOcc dgAF OFFspt“
Baroque Music
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffwriter
The Renaissance and Baroque Society 
of Pittsburgh will feature six interna­
tional touring ensembles and three con­
certs by the Baroque Society’s en- 
semble-in-residence, Music’s Recrea­
tion, in its 1987-88 season. The Baroque 
Society is dedicated to the recreation of 
Baroque music with the authentic in­
struments of that period. The concerts 
will take place in Synod Hall in St. 
Paul’s Cathedral, noted for its vaulted 
ceilings and excellent acoustics. Synod 
Hall is located near Mellon Institute on 
Fifth Avenue in Oakland. The Renais­
sance and Baroque Society will present 
three offerings for the fall semester.
On October 10, the Tafelmusik Ba­
roque Orchestra of Toronto with harpsi­
chordist Colin Tilney will perform 
Vivaldi’s “The Four Seasons” as well as 
works by Handel and Marcello. Vivaldi, 
a prolific Italian composer, completed 
more than 40 operas and 400 concertos 
in his lifetime. “The Four Seasons,” 
comprised of four concertos represent­
ing each season of the year, is his most 
famous work. The Tafelmusik Baroque 
Orchestra will perform Vivaldi’* work 
with the original instruments of his era.
The Baroque Society’s Ensemble-in- 
Residence, Music’s Recreation, will 
perform on November 7,1987. Music’s 
Recreation is a quartet of a flute, violin, 
viola da gamba and harpsichord. They 
will be joined by three guest musicians 
who will play recorders, violin and 
viols. The 7 member ensemble will 
perform the music of 17th century Eng­
land, featuring instrumental suites from 
the operas, “The Fairy Queen” and 
“King Arthur” by Henry Purcell, 
England’s greatest musical genius of the 
post-Restoration period.
The last concert for the fall semester 
will feature the Newberry Consort and 
their presentation of “A Medieval 
Christmas.”
For ticket information, contact the 
Renaissance and Baroque Society of 
Pittsburgh at 682-7262.

---------------------------------------------------

Student Events Coordinated by
/<M. ILvW ^
mnv 
nciu
"A GATHERING OF THE CLANS" 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1987 
Student Events
4:00 PM - 6:00 PM, On The Cut (Financed by Student Senate) 
FREE REFRESHMENTS TOO!!!!
Highlander Games - Scottish athletic events: Caber Toss, 
Tossing of the Sheaf, and Throwing of the Stone.
Tricycle Races - The Grand Prix of Tricycle Races.
Powder Puff Football Games - The Tartan women will show 
their stuff while the Tartan men cheer them on to victory.
6, 8:30 and 11 Is6 Doherty 2210
Movie: Children of a Lesser God (Sponsored by ~S Films)
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1987 
Student Events
Carr ns6 Phipps Conservatory 
5K Race
ggair ns M garr Is6 On The Cut 
Student/Alumni Luncheon, Free to all Students with
CMU ID. (Financed by Student Dorm Council and Student Senate)
garr Is6 On The Cut
Homecoming Parade - Parade route along the walk 
between Warner and Doherty Halls.
gair Is6 Stadium 
Pre-Game Ceremony
Uarr Is6 Stadium 
Carnegie Mellon vs. Hiram
Halftime
Crowning of Mr. and Miss Varsity, Kiltie Band 
Performance
6,8,10 and midnight, Doherty 2210 
Movie: Burglar (Sponsored by SDC)
Carr ns M varr Is6 Daily,
ity Floor, College of Fine Arts.
"The Great Tartan Myth"

---------------------------------------------------

^ BLOOM COUNTY
By Berke Breathed Funded l»y SJD.C.
Nwtf gW77p pWSS7w. convince An WfwsoNdSsRATIONAL WOMAN TOP/SPLAY HER PRIVATES TV THE MILLIONS OF PIMPLY FACEPgWAAsMs LW.S nnREAP THIS STVFF 7
'HEF AIMING NO, IA FLAME UNPERSTANP THROtMER FREEWILL AT HER IS INVOLVE?. PARENTS' /HEAPS? /-'n
S omeeFra tatn nismNAN fcdFrm,cOmn infhmeemf.. Cptm lhde cI NASA'.
FO ec echhy Fp Oiep tfnm ’emmn a,Iidu cip ptmhmuN
SoSmeFraten NNN Omanfmh­ncNNN dcep Fn a rhmapFTm Odfmhu nmee ,Fptcip fihfcemB f­hmrp,nNN ch mTmn a erhFfp
ecinfe dFMm hFgtpCa HfcnOa ,cf C OcTFm mTmn wmppmh I _ / ptanptmfmOcrhap ' ' N Ompaftchv
,mddNFp ,ae nc ephciN Fn a wmf cI hceme
yciChm
HOME. F aOeuE tcOm
YOU'VE BEEN REPLACEP. WE HAVE A NEW MISTER SPOCK WITH A NEW PER­SPECTIVE ON THE % CHARACTER.
ap ptm OcOmnp a tmCe taTFnR anm, pyfFrad fFeauefcrMpNC RhmmOmnp E ,Fpt fhN O:rcyN
BONES, I HATE YOUR ï&mtm. HUMAN OUTS— sFerieeFcnIFhep cIIFrmh efcrM warM IhcO etchm dmaTm anf hmfchpFnR Ichfipyv
itucn wmtadI cI ptm wchn OaFn OmOwgh9 cI Omafc,ecrFmpyN pf iMm yci pc Mnc, ptap fmef­pm cih mahdFmh wmtaTFch pcie yciFd ad,aye wmW- „
mim/t/j- 
msm ik:i,L£WHO'5 60NNAearn mu
cih RccfIhFmnfN ptanMeN
FO a nciTmai TidranC anf FCO paMFnR cTmh ptm etFfN ,mChm nc, cn a IFTmuymah OFeeFcn Ich rtmaf fdmaeihme earhFdm/m2
eidi wmaO if emTmhad fhinM echchFpy RFhde ,Fpt eOaiN ncemeN W
eidiB Tidrane chImprt fcnCp eayOm a fhFnM CImprtOahpFnFN wcc4mN I
tiOch tFO ,tappa FCdd 9mnf,m cip 1­ fverhmpm fc 0 fvephmeeCrcfmNN B
,tyya dccMFnA apOm iMm ptap 0
tmyB -pe rccdNNN uptapCe omeevr1­ tatnNCC
F aONFCO a hFRtpmcie Rcf ImahFnR fifm
fdaywcyC0 b ptciRtp yci ,mhm fchn aRaFnN 1DO.Inks potsKurt Shaw
Untitled Stuff.
M2yn SEE ‘abi Eise C4M TUSSLE 
PIPES KILL !
W PiPes N, 9iG”59L u3y U&T «ÇRT
­T nNaFF 1siFI0
H^GuysîAfW (tf-U 
C1UVSPk 'xw Q ^op«„,P3«^V
FoituMe.' 57-AA^G^aND3*Z' AIKS. y-&b>” rIG“_T3feSt=__________,
& FfIph Ffs OiFIAF IA FiTIp0 Fa Nads Fa 0iIvA rIFf fIA isOCIFT“
By Danny Fahs
TWe u*re*j«eLo/u ¿r^mses at Buck
Ogq rrs Mar n TouvMep O,c Px^nerXdB
'q::.q kG) took > Ass/a^e^r <? lock1,
Voo DiOM'T 6£T -*q GG-> o W SaSqC isNn -“ 'OM't evFM I
^'AeCpP^^ b1, ms face!! A
u*U-, I SAW HIS .HOS£, MVtW.i
s>bO‘RE LETTING 6»ßtSP BLIkJD 'NJep,v:>u-x I thought kGc coeee N 
\ Of= MUCH OG>:qS epcrM d
e “qP“q““ I,s;/u elcFB,eu-ECciFae0ala I'Vp MAC*? 
PeseftVÀTTO*^ AT TH€I I' Horec. PV ..8 .e..8.
coc*Arn/ems,ac/Hs* ' r 
HK*5 W» ueu. ovecf, uvu/eOF THAT .\pucK\ y
I UJOOCONT
pfeyRjs, actuau-V

---------------------------------------------------

By Jim Vorhees
IT*5 PR1 DAY THE 137* 
BtfORi HALLOVJEEN u-E’neb I
PSYCHO Qf \
MASS ACREA,» «R 
6V THE
LIVING f[
OEA'D.l A ifl/1
k 3UST WHEN) YOÜ 
THOUGHT IT WAS 
\SAFE TO m AT 
\THr MOVIE5-
UELLO. 
shoo' - oNuy 
^ at*eam.
By Craig Schlechter
fcftAV hi IP, LET'S SEE HOW USEFUL 
YOU ARE. WE'ffF ldokihg FOR A GUV) 
WHO CALLS HIMSELF 'THE PUTRIP / 
5KULLJ. GOES AROUND IN A LAB / 
COAT.. LONG HA I fi, GLASSES, s'fCarnegCiMeln oclsuuppp­T bICCIOd ­OipsA x
EOFFfsr RIOdapt
TH\S> fcOfc.T>£fcS ÖM THt 
UNCONSTrroWNftt'. <ae>u.te 
%ISCCIMIN<¥T1MCr SWJELiJ ON TH£ BOWS OF HOOi M»*»BcomEbs ooc. peifTEeNmi, 
'******,CICI
HOW CftW SaO^JL tVPtCT TO RtWWN NÌMBECS OFTHglFC 
C,iF- ,’ML3 yb, nUVb>/n ?
9UT Tf//>r 50CWPS t»H£' MLF i”Z u->ee
(X&tiT 
EcF92 
En 
MeG>- "
& R,E;y q2*GCZL I“
O,2b9 x
aou.lL 7wdoO “T“KtCVT » y
JiX 0=p’3 lOO/VG gtSseee :
/V/Arr.JL,<EQQ£c7wLfwtfGUY THERE?J
fIGmr*EtfiCTVf^LiKEHi/A/,
G-*,LI“ M,,9n G92“ 
R”:F -FsF ‘A -cb&’ci 
M^ßTHte SWUK 1 
cFyuC TuE£ u3Fc3XP bIF?
SOU. STILL HAVfi. 
A HOOSt *!7.SomeFFF 'aESifiUiOj THS. 6f«TH 
IS FLWT. 8Mò, X SOU COUUb USE 
cCyLbhQ“““
COHCMLXXXV/H
^ B«EW=5
A Look WithinBy Kneep Debends
f\ ¿astirdl^ ewldoer is tcavc.lli^’ 
faster than -¿hd S peec/ Arm è .
I lous'd appfe/iend h«*M ana s«e 
ttaé /ic i: p^csh«! ~to -the. CxUit of ¿h<r /auD -for X (Jodi s rr^rejevifat,^ idr-^ a nei J ¿re rto£ /><5tìf~ -¿he scorci /Vi /a/V?,caD
1 CdfirtcL d_o it. To hirKt
X too wusf :GHV­ 'èAtf S/*7 crTexceed^ the speed Mi #ä e* 
¿oeS’ "tine inenni. T ivjus~/ea^r t £ ft t/i^ ooraM oJ' (?CaC/(
/é is ujri^en( "Vir^eatnce /& /*!•/€,
rWAiT HERB, 9&l“ LB2 w,y THINGS TO Pd.
how GUG Al A RED 
!VS! ftPsTeR WAV 
,l yF*h1/u ? B
HG^JCf Trie MA6NCTÌC 
FieuO &n =@C2EyIcR 
PeRPENOICOLAR TDThC 
PtANG OF OCTBTER1-2(

---------------------------------------------------

FREDDY FLASHBACK & MAX
^Tkis iS Hfc^pofoU.
\\6 sWuj oi
+V« (Ku^ .two^u^
Coo^ntiw t* Sfi*rcU *
Ul 22..
Tke,r nA«t* hRdsrr^
By Dou£ Lamperski
Fr^y fUh.dC ßfY_!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!“J nLL fne ‘b cNsthI: ‘IaV ,s 3* bteW, sk(
^‘fU'FlP <Kr*^ S41/C ‘H'C 
Univ/^rse evervy u^eK.^r<3»n 
badi 3«"CH'
^Uf
H»erc$ j-k&^L
^^bSfcK
The ££AI WorldBy Andy Durkin
. V$u ftepTTfcttA.^f/JtWtzot fWSfob 
ifevsMk ^
Weilib
pn&kU 3- KVVa*c I y \Are i»n tor
N<?xrf W€4f 
^,c?'Vun<5-tK,
CrKy HalC^ 7 t- i JQfid are, \rt> rW^Y
Um GW "taire ,
'&* A*n
-«nwSclfj END
ANT FARM AID
collegiate crossword
m
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW8701 
ACROSS
1 Meditators 7 Drink taken after a drink13 Church in Rome
14 Natural environment16 Former
17 City in California18 Gives a bad review19 Chess pieces21 Overly proper person22 Part of TGIF23 Kith and --24 Horse25 Nuremburg no27 Detroit athlete29 Ticket sales for an event30 Dessert item 32 Defamed34 Louisville slugger35 -- Yat-sen
36 Propriety of behavior40 Loses weight44 Man from Mecca45 The devil 47 Store sign
48 Nod off
49 American league team (abbr.)50 Part of MPH51 Patron
53 African capital55 Take a bride56 Persist at, as a point58 From Lhasa60 Religious recluse61 Flatter62 Conditions63 Cuddle
DOWN
1 Sea mammal2 Kitchen device3 Tennis match parts4 Gad's son5 Highway part6 Enter furtively (2 wds.)7 Station8 Dutch painter9 Former pro league10 Nitwit11 Rome, The --City12 Show joy
13 Moving like a horse 15 Having a label 20 Toupee26 Important person27 -- Andronicus28 Ascended29 "Trivial Pursuit" edition31 Feather's partner 33 Lou's partner36 Vienna's river37 Schoolroom need
38 Short, sleeveless garment39 Becomes due, as a note40 Rutgers' river41 Balance sheet section
42 Lift up43 Peaceful46 Metric --52 Hindu deity53 -- board54 ---order55 Whip mark57 -- part59 Ralph Kramden's vehicle
BBGBOQ BBBOHB BEDDBBOB BEBEBBBl BI100BD0 nnnrmnn DCBGß ODQOCI ilBB BBC HOBOS ODBD BOB BOOED QBOOBl OBGOBBB BBEJBB I BBBB BIDQQ BOOBE 0EDQÖUÜ CQGGB UEBGB UUU DBBO C3DOBQ UUU BEO BEHOB ??UUU BOBCBBO ????QJUS DBOOBBB ÖUMLÜÜLIU BBBClBn BSDBBU
These are the answers to 
last week's puzzle.

---------------------------------------------------

October 6,1987—The Tartan—Page D15
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, Octo­
ber 7. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Papyrus, Pens, and Pixels Exhibit. The 
ways that changing technology have altered 
f jur alphabet. Letterforms have changed with 
the inventions of the steel pen, the printing 
press and the computer. Tools of lettermaking 
shown. Exhibit designed by five CM senior 
graphic designers. Hunt Library, 4th floor, 
Fine & Rare Book Room. 1:30-4:30, Monday 
Graphite: Homage to the Pencil. Through 
October 12. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, 
6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Gallery Hours 
< are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Drawn to the Surface: Artists in Clay and 
Glass. Through October 11. Pittsburgh Cen­
ter for the Arts, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna­
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
( organized by the Walker Art Center in Min­
neapolis. Through November 8. Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm 
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw­
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal­
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Through November 8. Gallery Hours are 10 
am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 
pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Six Artists: Two and Three Dimensions.
An exhibition on the interrelationships of the 
drawings and three-dimensional work of 
Mary Bero, Dale Chihuly, Anne Currier, 
Christine Federighi, Peter Gourfain and Mark 
Kobasz. Through November 8. The Society 
for the Art in Crafts; 21st and Smallman 
Streets, the Strip District. Gallery Hours are: 
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm 
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings by Old Masters, 16th through 18th 
Centuries. Through October 25. Hewlett 
Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st floor. Gal­
lery hours are: 11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday through 
Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Attention Catholic Singles!!! Are you look­
ing to be part of a group that has a little bit of 
everything for your activiteis, social, reli­
gious, sports, community service, etc. If you 
would like an organization that has all these 
qualities, plus being with people that share 
your own ideas, educational and employment 
background, and other interests, call the 
Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh at 341- 
4070 or 461-2247.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are dealing with attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
CLOTHING MEN AND YOLING MEN SINCE I9M
_ondonDock
Our new collections have arrived from 
Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy’Z, Polo, 
Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill421-5710
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads781-0811
r$ c>
n
ÇN 68: 
»0
nrico shili'iiiiihi>niil
682-3738
CRUISE SHIPS
Now Hiring. M/F Summer & Career Op­
portunities (Will Train). Excellent pay plus 
world travel Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, 
etc. CALL NOW¿206-736-0775 Ext. 536H
or
119 Meyran Avenue (Oakland) 
Between Forbes & Fifth ^ 
|^Mon. 9-3:30 Tues.-Sat. 9-5:30
O
Now..
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Fulton Building 
Pittsburgh, f* 15222
Services« (412) 562-1900
Women's
Health
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and 
instructions. Confidential counseling available.
vS-
------------------------------!
Save $2 on 
wash & cut only 
with this ad
« Jit.
0
i____
Walk-in or 
by Appointment 
682-3738]
Buhl Science Center.
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
Murder in the Planetarium. Friday, Octo­
ber 30. Call 321-4302 for information.
First Light. 2 pm, Monday through Thurs­
day; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4 
pm, Saturday; and 2 pm, 4 pm, Sunday. Co­
lumbus Day, Monday, Oct. 12: 11 am, 2 pm, 
3:30 pm.
Introduction to the Planetarium. 3 pm, 
Saturday; 1:15 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Color. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm,
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pir, - 5 
pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Theatre. The
Ghost of Mr. Penny. Mr. Penny has disa >- 
peared-and for ten years his secret has been 
hidden in his “haunted” house. Four adventur­
ous children and an amiable but shrewd hobo 
join forces to explore the old Penny 
mansion...and solve the mystery! 11 am, 2:30 
pm, Saturday; 2:30 pm, Sunday. Through 
November 8. For ticket info, call 621-4445.
Be a part of
The new addition to The Tartan, where you can put 
anything you want in print! For FREE!
• Let that special someone know how you feel...
• Thank all those people you’ve been meaning to...
• Vent frustrations against your roommate...
MIAOPep0IsP
/sdsdHsi FfOF pI0fF Ip FfswCOt Tag cagpt ds OF Ffs
Cagp0s“““Tag fsCvst ds daisFiOIp AFOFIap“ bs fOt O 0isOF
FfOp Tag rICC hpar“FIds ap Ffs fapsTdaapP
ÌEstItp•F rs?
ÌRO:s
9spP
wsF Tagi NiOv acc Ffs cCaai/sO0Op sOFA ta0caat“
Hscais & Ffiar IF agF"
• 25 words or less 
• No advertisements 
• Keep it clean, please 
Just jot your message on a sheet of paper, and send it via campus mail to:
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Information Desk
SONO'016?V1
ccM
110 Bouquet St. 
Oakland
621-2087
ruessW® rat
?( SK\o •

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16—The Tartan—October 6,1987
Events
6Tüesday
Ea:IsA
7Wednesday
Ea:IsA
Koyaanisqatsi. A fine visual film about 
America. The film is based on the Hopi Indian 
word meaning “life out of balance.” Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
MsNFgisA
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Pierre Zo- 
elly speaks at noon in CFA 206.
Dept, of Mechanical Engineering Graduate 
Seminar. Dr. E. Sanchez Palencia, Universite 
Pierre et Marie Curie, speaks on “Topics in 
Singularity Theory: Elasticity Problems” at 
3:30 pm in Scaife Auditorium. Refreshments 
are served at 3 pm in SH 322.
ECKANKAR, The Ancient Science of Soul 
Travel. Western PA area ECKANKAR, pres­
ents a lecture and discussion on “Masters 
Among Us” at 7:30 pm in the Pittsburgh Eck 
Center, 413 Semple Street.
nvsNIOC 2:spFA
What’s New at Carnegie Mellon? In a series 
of informal lunch hour discussions, key Car­
negie Mellon administrators and faculty tell 
the campus community. The first discussion 
centers on the latest plans for the University 
Center. Free brown bag lunches for the first 75 
attendees are provided by the University Rela­
tions Division. Pick up your lunch in the lobby 
of Scotland Yard. Free soda, coffee and tea is 
available in the Wherrett Room.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language Dept, 
sponsors a Spanish Language table at 11:30 
am in the Morewood dining hall.
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
The Taming of the Shrew, starring Elizabeth 
Taylor, Richard Burton and Michael York. 
Splendid, rousing version of Shakespeare’s 
lively play about a strong-willed man who 
tames an equally strong-willed woman. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
MsNFgisA
Dept, of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Dr. Kurt F. Wissbrun, Celanese Research 
Company, speaks on “Dynamic Mechanical 
Properties and Creep of Liquid Crystal Poly­
mers in the Solid State” at 11 am in DH 1112. 
Coffee and pastries are served at 10:45 am in 
DH 1102.
Dept, of Architecture Lecture. Pierre Zo- 
elly, Visiting Andrew Mellon Professor of 
Architecture, CM, speaks at 8:30 pm in WeH 
7500.
baihAfavA
Career Decision Making Series for Seniors.
Have you had second thoughts about your 
career goals or do you not really know what 
your options are? This four session seminar is 
designed to help you assess your interests, 
abilities and values, explore current career 
options as well as new ideas, and clarify short 
and long range goals. 3:30 pm in Skibo room 
112.
nvsNIOC 2:spFA
French Table. The Modem Languages Dept, 
sponsors a French Language table at 11:30 am 
in the Morewood dining hall.
8Thursday
Ea:IsA
Five Easy Pieces, starring Jack Nicholson and 
Karen Black. A musician gives up his career 
to work on an oil rig. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Tin Drum, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission 
$1.
baihAfavA
Career Decision Making Series for Seniors.
Have you had second thoughts about your 
career goals or do you not really know what 
your options are? This four session seminar is 
designed to help you assess your interests, 
abilities and values, explore current career 
options as well as new ideas, and clarify short 
and long range goals. 3:30 pm in Skibo room
112.
nvsNIOC 2:spFA
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Dept, sponsors a German Language Table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Champagne Flight to the Dog Races, CM
Student Reading Series. Todd Sanders and 
Marshall Klimasewiski are reading original 
works of poetry and Tom McConnell is read­
ing an original piece of fiction. Forbes Gallery 
at 7 pm.
9Friday
Ea:IsA
Harold and Maude, starring Ruth Gordon, 
But Cort and Vivian Pickles. A comedy clas­
sic about a young man and his 79-year-old 
girlfriend. Hilarious. Excellent Cat Stevens 
soundtrack. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Children of a Lesser God, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $ 1.
MsNFgisA
Academic Computing Seminar. Nathaniel 
Borenstein speaks on “The Andrew Message” 
at 3:30 pm in Hamburg Hall Auditorium. 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center Semi­
nar. Dr. Richard Swift and Dr. Nick Camp, 
Alliant Computer Systems Corporation, speak 
on “Alliant FX-8 Approach to Parallelism” at 
4 pm in the PSC, 4th Floor Training Room.
10Saturday
Ea:IsA
Roxanne, starring Steve Martin, Daryl Han­
nah and Rick Roosovich. Funny and delight­
ful American version of Rostand’s classic 
“Cyrano de Bergerac,” with Martin and his 
nose helping his friend woo lovely Daryl 
Hannah. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Burglar, sponsored by SDC Films. DH2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
nspt eppagNsdspF Opt uOCsp»
tOi AgHdIAAapA Fa uOdvgA 
uOCsptOiP NJa GpI:siAIFT /sCO»
FIapAP VUkm 1aiHsA e:s““
nvsNIOC 2:spFA
The public is invited to celebrate the opening 
of Pathfinder Books at its new Garfield loca­
tion. There are refreshments, speakers and a 
party. 4905 Penn Ave. at 7:30 pm. For more 
information call 362-6767.
nvaiFA
Football. Home game against Hiram College,
2 pm.
U
 Sunday
Ea:IsA
You Can’t Take it With You, starring James 
Stewart, Jean Arthur, Lionel Barrymore and 
Ann Miller. Wonderful Kaufman and Hart 
comedy about an off-beat family. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Head, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 
pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
nvsNIOC 2:spFA
The Sculpture of Schenley Park. Join Ver­
non Gay, photographer for Discovering 
Pittsburgh’s Sculpture and president of the 
Sculptural Heritage Society, as he conducts a 
walking tour through Schenley Park examin­
ing sculpture composed of bronze, marble and 
foreign granite. 2 pm-4pm. Meet in the front 
entrance of Phipps Conservatory, Advance 
payment and reservations due by October 7. 
Call 471-5808 for details.
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Housing
"I ^ Monday
£“ B­ Ea:IsA
Lord of the Rings. Ralph Bakshi’s part ani­
mated, part live action film of the J.R.R. Tolk­
ien fantasy saga of Middle Earth. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. Admission
$2.95.
3 MsNFgisA
Dept, of Art Lecture. Karin Broker, print- 
maker, speaks on her work at 7 pm in WeH 
7500.
nvsNIOC 2:spFA
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Dept, sponsors a Japanese Language Table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella­neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to Campus Calendar / University Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus mail to the above address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The
house between AY and ATQ).Please include the following information when submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief description, location, date, and time. In addition, include the name and phone number of the person submitting the entry; this information will be used only to confirm the event.All events are free of charge and open to the general CMU student population unless otherwise noted.Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes­day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
Telephone Sales: Part time position 6-9:30 p.m. 
Call from our Shadyside office for non-profit or­
ganization. 6-10 positions. 363-4953 - afternoons.
Waitress, experience preferred. Weekends. In­
quire in person at Murray St. Cafe, 1720 Murray
Ave.
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for home­
workers to perform mail services. Incentive pro­
grams available. For information send large self 
addressed stamped envelope to U.S.A., 24307 
Magic Mtn. Pkwy., Suite #306, Valencia, CA 
91355.
Feature Film Producer wants part-time computer 
programmer, Coraopolis area. Knowledge of D- 
BASE III PLUS necessary. Flexible hours, nego­
tiable salary. Call Ingrid, 264-2920.
Mise
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Year’s, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata­
log $2.00. Research. 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, Ext. 33. 
Visa/MC or COD.
Drive a Car Anywhere Free. Pay gas only. A-l 
Auto Movers. 828-4813.
“Good Software’s Celebrity” Word Processor 
Plus for IBM P.C. & compatibles. $69.95 Call 
Danny Wright 521 -5718. Dictionary, Appointment 
Calendar, more.
Interested in Peace Corps? Information sessions 
Oct. 8,7:00, Skibo 13 or Oct 13,4:00, Forbes Quad 
4E51 at Pitt.
Free Rent and Growing Equity. 3 unit house— 
Shadyside, near Walnut. Separate utilities. Occu­
pancy permit. Walk to Pitt or CMU. $79,900 sale by 
owner. 621-0814 day, 767-9942 eve.
Five minutes from Pitt and CMU. Two bedroom 
furnished & just remodeled apartment. $380 plus 
utilities, parking available $20/month. Call 655- 
1872.
Services
Typing/Writing Services - Term papers, disserta­
tions, thesis, resumes. Spelling & grammar in­
cluded. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 486-8577.
Help with computer graphs. If you have IBM, HP 
Plotter, Chartmaster software. $10-12/hour. Est 1? 
hours. Call Frank 521-3401 or 562-8457.
