Natalie Wochele/Tartan PhotographerTartan Rie Photo
; Inside Sports Features Dossier
\ calendar.....................................L14 The Tartan is going
j S5?1 - ."::S on hiatus. Our next Mens basketball Explore CMU in the Read and see
' .......u issue will come out keeps their winning year 2000 see students works in
j SSS . . 'v 9 on January 23 streak  see page 9 page LI this weeks rag! v/wPnnuli...................................LI 3 , Vox Popull.
R ___
Ins IidIie
Acar with flat tires has been outside of Donner hall for years. This week, students 
moved the car onto the sidewalk and it was finally towed away.
SISp orti FauDFuC c.Tc
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Personnel Manager
This past weekend marked CMUs 
Greek systems first open attempt at the 
bring your own beer (BYOB) policy. The 
fraternities Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) and 
Delta Tau Delta (DTD) took the initia
tive to try two BYOB partieslast Friday 
and Saturday night.
The issue of BYOB on campus has 
been circling the Greek system for the 
past few years.
Questions ofliability and finance have 
turned fraternities at other schools to a 
policy where the fraternity will not have 
to provide beer for everyone who attends 
their parties.
The Interfratemity Counsel has this 
semester begun to look at ideas and 
suggestions about BYOB, but PiKA and 
DTD decided to sponsor the parties on 
their own. The two houses made it a 
joint effort from the beginning, having 
one party at PiKA on Friday, and the 
second at DTD on Saturday. Posters
went up on Wednesday of last week to 
advertise the party, and it specifically 
said it was a BYOB party and any ques
tions about how it would work, could be 
answered by a brother in either frater
nity.
If a non-fraternity member attends 
the party and wants to drink, that per
son must bring his or her own beer, in 
cans only, to the door and will be issued 
tickets for the number of beers brought. 
To redeem these, the tickets are pre
sented to the bartender.
JeffBricker, PiKAs Social Chair said 
that at Fridays first party, about six 
people brought cases to the party. 
Bricker said the number was fairly low, 
but because of the short notice, not as 
many people were encouraged to BYOB.
Reaction to the party was fairly posi
tive. Kristy Partovi, a freshman in MCS 
said [the party] really wasnt that dif
ferent. Kara Yamot, a Senior Policy 
and Management major, and the presi
dent of Delta Gamma sorority said that 
the reaction she heard from members of
her house was it didnt really seem to 
matter, they still had a good time. As 
far as turnout goes, Melissa Murello, a 
freshman in H&SS said, I thought it 
was definitely a smaller party.
DTDs party Saturday night was de
scribed as very crowded, by several 
students and Vanessa Novissimo, a 
sophomore rench/Creative Writing 
double major said, I was having a really 
good time ... and there was not at all a 
difference [because of BYOB]
Eric Nemoseck. the TFC President 
said that IFC thought wed look into it 
because its a trend. But IFC has so far 
not received any pressure from the Uni
versity itself to try a BYOB policy.
Some members of the administration 
have even said they are opposed to the 
idea. Nemoseck said some fraternities 
hve gotten a little pressure from their 
nationals.
CMU has been different because on 
most BYOB campuses, it is the 
universitys administration itself that 
Please see BEER, page 3
SrDrDy Wuhhrggff lugfF gu Fgua cwrmrDy S uum WuwCg
By MAX CHETTISTER
Tartan Staffwriter
On November 17, a propos 
was passed by the Presidenti 
Committee on Dining (PCOE 
jvhich requested that the pr 
posed move of the Wean Hall fo( 
jcarts to Building D would n 
Jjccur, and CMU administratic 
has approved the proposal.
Instead of moving the enti 
setup, the committee proposed 
'move Wean Wok. According 
;the proposal, the carts which a 
pow in the fifth floor lobby 
'Wean Hall will be streamline
by moving both cart operatioi 
!to one side of the lobby. T1 
proposal also stated that tabli 
and chairs could be placed in tl 
vacated area. These tables ai 
chairs would not overcrowd tl 
lobby, but merely provide son 
places to sit, work, and/or eal 
The carts will also be accepting 
pampusXpress and DineXpress 
beginning next semester.
According to Brenden Mielke, 
a freshman IM major and chair of 
the Presidential Committee on 
Dining, the decision was made to 
propose to stop the Building D 
move after the opinions of people 
jnvolved were considered. Mielke 
d, There was a lot of student 
'and faculty and staff outrage 
.[about the move]... a small group 
decided to move [the carts].
Morewood Gardens has gone a long way from what it looked like at the start of the semester. (Left) The main entree was served only on chaffing 
dishes, and there were no other alternatives for food. (Right) Now, Morewood provides salads, deli sandwiches, and frozen yogurt.
The combination of the carts also a factor. Mielke said, We 
will be handled in conjunction need a west campus solution ... 
with the operators of La Prima this is [a] short term [solution] 
Espresso. Director of Dining Ser- with possible long term [effects]. 
vices Mark Hamlin said that it The other main option was en-
plaints about the amount oftrash 
generated, in addition to odor. 
Residents of Wean dont care for 
it, Mielke said. The PCOD is 
currently surveying possible
ter would be a good location for a 
dining area, but he did not have a 
comment on moving Wean Wok 
to Baker/Porter. He did say that 
there will not be a deli cart [in
will be at minimal cost to the closing the Atrium Pavilion and sights along with Hamlin. Hamlin Baker/Porter] ... guaranteed,
University ... Were not talking moving the carts in there. How- feels that the Baker/Porter com- 
about decreasing menu options, ever, Mielke said, due to cost plex is a good location... tomain-
and time ...it is being considered tain the process. But, he also 
as a long term solution. said, We dont have a location
It was decided that Wean Wok yet. 
should be moved due to com- Mielke agrees that Baker/Por
If anything, they will increase. 
With the exception of the food 
carts, there is nowhere to eat on 
the west side of campus. This was
due to the fact that Wean will 
retain deli-style food.
Installing CampusXpress and 
DineXpress in Wean has been 
delayed until next semester since 
there would be a large increase in
the use of CampusXpress and 
DineXpress. Hamlin said that 
speed of transaction will offset 
increase in volume. Both types 
of payment will be made avail
able next semester.
The Wean food cart situation is 
not the only issue on which the 
PCOD is working. In the same 
proposal which dealt with the 
Wean carts, it was proposed to 
upgrade the vending machines in 
various academic buildings, to 
include serving hot coffee and 
fresh sandwiches.
Possible locations for the new 
machines would be the Baker/ 
Porter complex and the Scaife 
area. There is a possible leasing 
plan already in place to obtain 
the machines. In order to allow 
sufficient time for the leasing and 
stocking of the machines, the pro
posed rollout would be around 
the middle of the spring semes
ter.
This is an option which Hamlin 
feels is quite viable. Im confi
dent [about its success] from 
past experience, he said. Appar
ently, there is a somewhat neu
tral feeling from the campus popu
lation about this. There is also 
some concern that fresh foods 
such as sandwiches and milk 
could spoil. However, there would 
be great care taken in dating the 
food.
Please see DINING, page 5
orgg Fbwggf hfCyfF vrgb oiI kwF
PAT feels Pitt shuttle will conflict with their route
Natalie Wochele/Tartan Photographer
Students use the PAT buses to go to many parts of the city of Pittsburgh. PAT has 
fold the University of Pittsburgh that its shuttle infringes on their route.
By HEATHER ZINDLE
Tartan Staffwriter
As of the first of the new year, the 
University of Pittsburgh shuttle service 
that serves the Squirrel Hill and 
Shadyside areas will no longer be run
ning. Port Authority of Allegheny 
County, (PAT) has determined that those 
Pitt routes directly conflict with its own 
routes, and are taking riders off of PAT 
buses.
The Pitt shuttle system uses coach 
buses through a private line, thus there 
is a private system on public ground. 
According to Michael Grant, a masters 
student in public policy and manage
ment who is studying this problem, PAT 
basically has authority over all bus ser
vice providers in Allegheny County.
This does not affect any other routes, 
such as North and South Oakland, or 
Carnegie Mellons own shuttle service
routes.
This change, however, raises many 
questions for both Pitt and CMU stu
dents.
According to Julie Crowell, Pitts Stu
dent Body president elect, it had been 
proposed before that Pitt students could 
buy discounted bus passes for those 
routes, but the number of students that 
wanted to btiy the passes did not give 
enough of a discount.
Right now, Pitt students pay a $40 fee 
for transportation, and now that money 
for the Squirrel Hill and Shadyside 
routes will go directly to PAT.
Pitt students will be able to ride to 
Squirrel Hill and Shadyside areas using 
the PAT buses by showing their ID.
Starting January 1, 1995 this pro
gram will be implemented on a trial 
basis, and, if it works out, the system 
could becom a permanent concept. 
Crowell is anxious to see how this pe
riod goes, but is also apprehensive, 
because on the Pitt shuttle buses, be
cause it was a private line, students 
knew the buses were clean and safe. 
There are also concerns about crowd
ing and adequate service.
Right now, Tony De Simone, a junior 
civil engineering major who uses the 
Squirrel Hill Pitt buses to get to his off- 
campus apartment, said some nights 
the Pitt buses are already really 
crowded.
The riders on the Pitt buses would be 
combined with the PAT riders, as a re
sult of the combined system, the buses 
could become overcrowded making it 
uncomfortable for many of the riders 
who frequent the bus line.
This also raises some questions con
cerning CMU riders.
According to CMU police, students 
will still be able to ride Pitt buses next 
semester.

---------------------------------------------------

Insi ndeSdp o rdepitFi aiuuDp C c .iTiyWie hggf
In,x -jxI ,eMl
xwFafzg rmfDgrArfm 
rD S[bhfC F[]rDy
PORTAGE, Wisconsin, November29
 It is believed that serial killer Jef
frey Dahmer, imprisoned for mutilat
ing and eating his victims, may have 
been murdered by a fellow inmate who 
thought he was the son of God. The 
attack took place in a bathroom at the 
Columbia Correctional Institution.
Christopher Scarver was named as 
the number one suspect in the prison 
toilet beating which lead to the death. 
Scarver is a 25-year old black man 
who has a history of mental problems. 
In 1992 Scarver was convicted of an 
execution-style murder in Milwaukee.
Scarver was workingjanitorial duty 
with Dahmer and another inmate, 
Jesse Anderson. Anderson was also 
injured in the attack. The suspect was 
found with blood all over his clothes.
The officials at the prison do not 
believe that the attack was racially 
motivated even though both victims 
were white. Scarver had been in the 
mental ward of the prison and was 
treated.
Officials, though, never felt he was
antisocial or violent.
There will not .be a rush to charge 
Scarver since he is already serving a 
life sentence.
The two inmates that may have ob
served the attack were being held with 
Scarver in segregated units at the 
maximum security establishment. The 
actual attack is stitl under investiga
tion. It is unsure if fellow inmates 
helped in the attack or set it up.
Anderson was discovered beaten in 
a shower stallin the gymnasium while 
Dahmer was barley alive nearby. He 
died from multiple skull fractures, and 
brain trauma.
Even though a bloody broom handle 
was located at the scene, officials say 
that the walls may have been used for 
the attack.
Dahmer had confessed to the mur
der of 17 males over the span of 13 
years.
Experts feel that Dahmer may have 
been singled out because of his celeb
rity status and the media circus over 
the case.
WuDyCfFF a[FFfF :iII
WASHINGTON, D.C., December 2 
(D J)  The Uruguay Round of the Gen
eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 
(GATT), ratified by the U.S. Congress 
yesterday, includes a number of signifi
cant business tax changes aimed at off
setting the pacts $11.9 billion cost over 
the first five years.
The GATT legislation raises $800 mil
lion over five years by reducing the in
terest rate the government pays on cer
tain corporate tax overpayments of more 
than $10,000. It will also raise $95. mil
lion by stiffening the penalty for a corpo
rate tax underpayment attributed to a 
tax shelter.
The provision relating to the change 
in the rate of interest is actually fairly 
significant, said attorney Kathleen 
Ferrell of Davis, Polk & Wardwell. Its 
a pure revenue grab. Theres no policy 
justification.
The bill would raise $211 million over 
five years by taxing, with certain excep
tions, partnership distribution of mar
ketable securities.
Ferrell described the provision as 
fairly generic, noting it does not hit 
any particular industry.
Some $1.39 billion in revenue will be 
raised by provisions that tighten the 
way the government taxes so-called Sec
tion 936 companies, which have manu
facturing operations in U.S. territories.
An additional $900 million will be 
raised over five years by instituting plans 
to reform and strengthen the Pension 
Benefit Guaranty Corp. The bill, among 
other things, will increase employer con
tributions to the PBGC and require com
panies with underfunded pension plans 
to replenish them more quickly than is 
the case now.
Peter Sutherland, head of GATT, said 
that U.S. congressional passage of the 
agreement was a triumph that will 
help make the world a more prosperous 
place.
This is a day for particular celebra
tion, Sutherland told journalists.
The successful culmination of this 
debate proved that common sense still 
works.
U.S. congressional clearance of the 
new world trade accord is expected to 
encourage ratification by other coun
tries, allowing the mammoth export- 
boosting pact to take effect as planned 
on January 1.
Large and small nations alike are try
ing to rush the 22,000-page GATT agree
ment through national parliaments, of
ten in low-key processes compared to 
the rocky ride through Congress.
Accident finishes 
players career
KIRKLAND, Wash., December 1  
Seattle Seahawks tackle Michael Frier 
was paralyzed Thursday from the waist 
down when the car he was riding in hit 
a utility pole.
Star running back Chris Warren was 
driving the vehicle.
Warren was released early Friday 
morning after only suffering two cracked 
ribs. The third person in the car was 
running back Lamar Smith. He was 
hospitalized overnight due to chip frac
tures in his ankle and spine.
Friers neck was broken, and he dislo
cated his neck between the fifth and 
sixth vertebrae. There was also severe 
damage done to the spinal cord. Doctors 
said there was no chance he would play 
football again. Frier was expected to go 
into surgery on Friday.
The crash occurred around 8:40 pm 
near the Seahawks training facility. 
According to Smith, Warren was driving 
faster than normal whichwas especially 
dangerous on the rain-slick roads.
When the car hit the pole, the pole lit 
up in flames. Warren was arrested at 
the scene on charges of vehicular as
sault.
Passers by and firefighters had to help 
pull the victims out of the car.
Neither Police nor the coaching staff 
would comment on whether drugs or 
alcohol were involved in the accident.
Employment rate 
rises in New York
NEW YORK, December 2 (DJ)  
Jobless rates dropped slightly in the 
New York region in November, with the 
city registering a drop of 0.7 percentage 
points from the previous month, the 
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics said.
In his monthly repdrt, Regional Direc
tor Samuel Ehrenhalt said 7.5 percent 
of the citys civilian labor force was un
employed, down from 8.2 percent in Oc
tober. Statewide, the jobless rate 
dropped to 6.3 percent from 6.5 percent, 
while New Jersey showed a drop to 6.6 
percent from 6.7.
In raw figures, New York City had 
243,000 unemployed in November, com
pared with 271,000 in October. The state 
had 538,000 people out of work, com
pared with 561,000 in October; New 
Jersey had 266,000, down from 277,000 
in the previous month.
The civilian labor force is the total 
number of people working and those 
actively seeking employment. Ehrenhalt 
said the figure for New York state in 
November was 8.58 million, with 3.23 
million of those in New York City. New 
Jerseys was 4.05 million.
Jobless rates have fluctuated in re
cent months, with the citys ranging 
between 8.4 percent and 10.8 percent 
between January and August and drop
ping to a low of 7.2 percent in Septem
ber. That month saw 6.2 percent, also a 
low, statewide.
The figures are based on sample sur
veys of 2,200 households in New York 
City, 5,200 statewide, and 2,300 in New 
Jersey. They are seasonally adjusted 
and subject to unspecified sampling er
ror.
Ehrenhalt said the statistics are not 
directly comparable with previous years 
because the survey was redesigned last 
January, and incorporates population 
criteria from the 1990 U.S. Census.
President meets 
with Republicans
WASHINGTON, D.C., December 2, 
(DJ)  President Clinton indicated he 
wouldnt rule out working with Republi
cans on some of their ideas for cutting 
taxes, but said any tax cuts must be 
offset by other items in the budget to 
prevent increasing the deficit.
In a speech to the National League of 
Cities, Clinton said we need more tax 
fairness in the tax system for working 
citizens. He said the middle class should 
receive a dividend for the end of the 
Cold War and the downsizing of the 
government that has taken place.
But most hard-working Americans 
have an interest in keeping the deficit 
under control, said Clinton.
He said that while he favors doing 
something for the middle class and 
wouldnt rule out working with the Re
publican Congres s on some of their ideas 
for changing the tax code, he will insist 
that any tax cut benefit the middle class 
and be paid for so as not to boost the 
deficit.
Kuwait builds up 
defensive force
KUWAIT, December 2 (DJ)  U.S. 
and Kuwaiti military commanders will 
start a command and control exercise 
billed as the largest of its kind since the 
Gulf War, the army announced.
The emirates Deputy Chief of Staff, 
Maj. Gen. Fahad al-Amir, told reporters 
the five-day exercise, code named Ulti
mate Resolve, will begin Saturday.
Commanders from Britain, France, 
Arab Gulf states, Syria, and Egypt will 
participate as observers.
Al-Amir said the exercise is designed 
to tackle the difficulties and obstacles 
that occur in real operations, and dem
onstrate that the spirit of the 33-na- 
tion U.S. led coalition that fought Iraq in 
the 1991 Gulf War to liberate Kuwait 
still exists.
Last month, Kuwaits western i 
rushed troops, warplanes, and warships 
to the region to counter an Iraqi military 
buildup near the border that was per. 
ceived as a threat to the tiny emirate 
which Saddam Husseins army invaded 
in 1990.
Iraq pulled back its troops and recog. 
nized Kuwait as a sovereign state after 
Russian mediation.
Al-Amir said that the first phase of 
Ultimate Resolve will be restricted to 
planning sessions at high command lev
els, but the exercise will later expand to 
joint maneuvers in the desert with the 
allies that could continue, on and off, for 
two years.
He conceded that while Kuwaits small 
military cannot deter an Iraqi threat on 
its own, it will in the next few years be 
capable of engaging aggressors until its 
allies can deploy forces to support it.
Govt plans new 
nuclear inventory
WASHINGTON, D.C., December 1 
(DJ)  The Energy Department will 
require annual inventories of high-risk 
property as part of a new effort to pre
vent dissemination of hardware or in
formation that could contribute to 
nuclear proliferation.
The new interim guidelines, outlined 
in a November 10 memo and two accom
panying booklets, were issued in re
sponse to an August 3 Wall Street Jour
nal article about a Pocatello, Idaho used- 
car dealer who purchased major parts of 
a nuclear reprocessor from the 
departments Idaho National Engineer
ing Laboratory. The used-car dealer, Tom 
Johansen, also obtained blueprints and 
other data about the reprocessor from 
the Idaho lab. Neither the hardware nor 
the data were classified, but the sale 
caused considerable concern at the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the 
State Department, and the Energy De
partment. The memo, written by En
ergy Undersecretary Charles Curtis, and 
the two booklets were made public by 
the Energy Department yesterday.
Under the interim guidelines, which 
are expected to become permanent after 
a period for public comment, employees 
of the Energy Department and its pri
vate contractors are required to deter
mine whether material to be sold is 
proliferation-sensitive. If so, it must 
be rendered unusable for nuclear pur
poses prior to sale, and in some cases 
must be destroyed rather than sold.
, News Briefs Courtesy 
Dow Jones News Service
Briefs Compiled by Edward Hayes
MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
MERIT AWARD SPECIAL AWARD
Please help honor MCS's staff members by submitting you nomination for our newly 
established MCS Merit Award. Nominations are also being solicited for the Special Award 
described below.
One Merit Award, designed to salute excellence, will be given each year to recognize 
a staff member (or team) who has shown outstanding meritorious service to the College. 
(For the purpose of this award, team is defined as a group organized to work together.) In 
addition, the committee will review nominations for and reserve the option to confer a 
Special Award to honor someone outside MCS for outstanding service to the College.
Nominations are solicited from the entire CMU community - including adminstrators, 
fellow staff members, faculty, and students. (NOTE: Committee members are not eligible 
to be a nominee or nominator.)
Nomination forms are available inthe MCS Dean's Office and in each department office 
and should be submitted to Everett Tademy, Whitfield Hall, or via email to etl9@ 
andrew.cmu.edu. You may submit more than one nomination.
THE DEADLINE FOR SUBMITTING NOMINATIONS IS JANUARY :U, 1995
The awards ceremony will be on May 1,1995. If you have any questions or suggestions, 
please bring them to the attention of any member of the MCS Staff Recognition Commit- 
. ,tee. Your support of this program will help promote excellence in MCS.
THE MCS STAFF RECOGNITION AWARDS COMMITTEE:
Valerie Bridges, Chemistry Francine Johnson, Mathematics
Daniel Farkas, STC Robert Kraemer, Physics
Helena Frey, Chemistry Patsy McCarthy, Mathematics
Sue Haslett, MCS Dean's Office Elvira Prologo, PSC
Everett Tademy, EEO/AA (ex-officio)
greenhouse
m>
><o7}
80S Ivy Street 
(Pitts6urgh, (PJ4 15232 
(412) 688-0512
...AND MORE...SHADYSIDEBBBieS MTdsBBB
Receive a FREE SPECIALTY DRINK when
another of equal or greater value Is purchased. 
(Flyer must accompany promotion.)
Cafe Hours:
Sun. thru Thurs. 7am - lami
Fri. and Sat. 7am - 3am!

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfw
WMj gfFgF Dfv rDgfCD[gruD[ gf[zbrDy a[D
By GIL ALTEROVITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last week, on November 28, Carnegie 
Mellon and the Monterrey Technical 
Institute (Instituto Technologico y de 
gstudios Superiores de Monterrey), a 
prominent Mexican University, demon
strated a pioneering and innovative me
dium for teaching. Through a combina
tion of satellites, broadcasting stations, 
and more than 10 receiving stations
 across Mexico, Carnegie Mellon and 
Monterrey Tech have established the 
CMU-ITESM Institute for Strategic De
velopment. It may sound like a scene 
from Star Trek, but last weeks demon
stration showed that teachers can be 
literally put on screen, where they can 
been seen and heard by students in a 
class thousands of miles away.
Last weeks demonstration, in which
President Rafael Rangel of ITESM and 
President Robert Mehrabian of Carnegie 
Mellon participated, displayed one of 
the classes that began this fall as part of 
the Institute for Strategic Development 
program. The class, titled Managing 
Software Development, is being taught 
by James Tomayko, professor of Com
puter Science.
Unlike other classes at CMU, the Sat
urday sections of Managing Software 
Development have no students in the 
class, at least not at Carnegie Mellon. 
Students attend the class in Mexico. 
This is made possible by broadcasting 
the class live via satellite to the 
Monterrey Campus of ITESM. Accord
ing to Tomayko, the signal is then sent 
up to another satellite which transmits 
the signal to Mexico City. From there, 
the signal is relayed to the same satel
lite again to 14 of Monterrey Techs
campuses.
Students attending the class can ask 
questions during the class session or 
turn in homework via computer link, 
fax, or phone. Through a computer link, 
Tomayko can also stay in contact with 
the Assistant Professor of the class, Ralf 
Eder Lange, a computer science profes
sor at ITESM. As with other classes, 
homework is graded and credit is 
awarded toward a degree, a masters 
degree in this case.
Through the Institute for Strategic 
Development, there are also graduate 
student exchanges and cooperation be
tween the faculty of the two universi
ties. In the future, Tomayko said that 
there would be other courses taught 
through the program as well as joint 
teaching of classes via satellite with 
professors from Mexico. Professor Paul 
Goodman, who is affiliated with the
Graduate School of Industrial Adminis
tration and serves as CMUs director for 
the Institute for Strategic Development, 
said in a press release that he believes 
that ITESM and Carnegie Mellon can 
work on future programs that will have 
an impact throughout Latin America, 
and ultimately the world.
According to Tomayko, the purpose of 
the program is to work cooperatively 
with industry in Mexico and the U.S. on 
joint research and development [as well 
as on] various educational projects. 
According to the press release, 
Goodman sees the program as a step
ping stone to an envisioned virtual uni
versity which bridges space, time, and 
physical facilities such as classrooms 
and libraries. Goodman noted that in 
the future, we will be able to give stu
dents around the world an opportunity 
to learn from the best teachers no mat
ter where they are. Tomayko sees th 
program as beneficial for ITESM in that 
students at 14 of its 26 campuses will 
have an opportunity to take a cours 
that does not exist at their home univerj 
sity. He sees long term gains for 
Carnegie Mellon as well, stating, I think 
the main advantage for CMU is working 
with very bright people in a different 
country because you get different per
spectives. The Institute of Strategic De
velopment is not the only program at 
Carnegie Mellon through which students 
outside of Carnegie Mellon can attend 
via satellite.
Another program is run through th 
National Technological University based 
in Fort Collins, Colorado.
Carnegie Mellon is part of this vir-i 
tual university which consists of a group 
of universities which broadcasts classes 
via satellite.
c.Tc yfDfC[gfF 
A[luC[kf CfFwgF
BEER, from page 1
has set the policy. Here, if the 
campus were to decide to follow 
this policy, Nemoseek saiditis 
an 1FC issue and we would de
cide.
The question of liability has 
surrounded BYOB. If someone 
drinks at a fraternity party and 
gets hurt after they leave, in
vestigators want to know who 
provided the alcohol and the 
place to drink it.
By going BYOB, some of the 
responsibility is taken off the 
fraternity because they did not 
provide the person with the 
beer.
There is also a financial ques
tion involved. As it is now, fra
ternities are consistently 
spending money buying cases 
of beer to serve to their paity- 
goers but Bricker said, 'with 
the money we save on beer, we 
could do different kinds of par
ties.
He said they would make the 
effort to not have your average 
fraternity party.
He said ideas about theme
parties and live bands have 
been discussed and also creat
ing an environment where you 
can talk to people  not just 
dance with loud music."
The sororities on campus 
have also supported the idea of 
BYOB.
Yamot said, my house is 
very supportive of the BYOB 
policy and we hope the steps 
toward it will continue.
Yarnot sees the advantages 
of BYOB as cutting down on 
risk management and creat
ing more innovative program
ming. Parties could revolve 
around things other than 
drinking, said Yamot.
BYOB would also not affect 
frternity/sorority pre-mixers. 
As long as it is a closed mixer, 
the fraternity can serve what
ever they want.
After the parties, the IFC 
and members of PiKA andDTD 
will evaluate how they went. 
Brieker said they want to wait 
and think things over. He said, 
Were keeping our minds 
open.
dfaCumwzgrlf 
nuChuDfF 
8 xgCfFF
Healthy women 
between the ages of 18-35 are needed for a study. Women with and without regular periods (menstrual cycles) will be Included Qualified women may receive free testing and may be paid up to S600 For more information, call Kerry at 641-1483
Magee-Womens Hospital
Immigration
Services
Call for a free subscription to our 
Immigration Newsletter.
Ventresca & Ventresca
Attorneys al I^aw
530 Wni. Penn Place  Suite 357 
Pittsburgh  Pennsylvania  15219
(412) 261  5366
LAW OFFICES OF GARY STEINER
-Y IMMIGRATION LAW - Permanent Residence (Green Cards), Work 
Permits,. Change of Status
INJURIES - Accidents, Improper Medical & Dental Car e, Dangerous 
Products - No fee unless we collect 
Ct FAMILY - Divorce, Custody, Pre-nuptial Agreements
BUSINESS - Contracts, Start-ups, Negotiations, Joint Ventures, Real 
Estate & Business T ransactions 
iY EMPLOYMENT LAW - Wrongful Discharge, Discrimination, Sexual- 
Harassment 
Y ENTERTAINMENT, ARTS, & MEDIA LAW
ONE OXFORD CENTRE - PITTSBURGH 255-3777
eT :,MM,Wtx 
s9Idi ,eWTMs eT"
ENVELOPE STUFFING: 
$600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to...
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave. 
Brooklyn, New York 11230
mtwmw m m wwm
SOPHOMORES- ITS NOTTOO LATE TO IOIN OUR TEAM
+ miio w WM oi?m mmn<i m summ + turn oux lowno mm fit fi }uium 
+im-ym uwwm m wmm i
CONTACT THE DEPT. OF MIUTARV SCIENCE FOR MORE INFORMATION: 
STOP BY 2902 C. OF.L. OR CALL 624-61 07 / 61 98
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craiq in Oakland]
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
rduu mhfbgg
Crime and Incident Reports
11/19 MISSING PERSON,
2:34 am. A father contacted cam
pus police to report that his 
daughter had not yet returned 
home. He said she should be work
ing in Hamburg Hall and her car 
would be in the back parking lot. 
A survey of Hamburg Hall and 
the parking lot resulted in nega
tive results. A description of the 
girl was then broadcasted. The 
father was notified and told to 
call Campus Police again in case 
the daughter returned. By 4:15 
am, the daughter had still not 
returned home. Police began to 
search for the female. With the 
assistance of a student, the police 
discovered that the missing girl 
had not logged on to her e-mail 
account since November 18 at 
12:33 pm.
11/19 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATION, 6:41 pm.
- Campus police were dispatched, 
to Morewood Gardens where a 
female reported that she had re
ceived sexually explicit e-mail 
from a male that she did not know. 
The letter was sent to the victim 
and four other females, none of 
whom the victim knew. The let
ter said, Hi there! You probably
dont know me, but I think youre 
sexy and I want to fuck you all 
night long. I want you to suck my 
big fat dick and then I want to 
shove it up your ass. PLEASE 
respond to this letter. My e-mail
address is ____. I want to lick
your luscious tits and eat your 
cherry pie. Romeo and Juliet 
never fucked this way. Vous lez 
vous couchez mois mademoiselle. 
Je vous aime oh la la.
11/22 UNDERAGE POSSES
SION OF ALCOHOL, 2:29 am. 
Campus police responded to an 
excessive noise complaint in 
Mudge C-Tower. When police ar
rived, there was an empty case.of 
beer in the hallway. One of the 
rooms had a tabletop that was 
full of empty cans of beer. The 
resident of the room said that the 
noise was from people leaving
the party. He was reminded it 
was a school night by campus 
police. The residents breath 
smelled of alcohol.
11/26 PUBLIC DRUNK-
ENESS, 4:16 am. A female stu
dent was crossing Forbes Ave. 
when she encountered a male 
with a dark coat. He asked her if 
she was a movie producer. She 
got scared and ran into Morewood 
Gardens where she called cam
pus police. Police caught up with 
the actor who was obviously 
drunk. He was told not to return 
to the campus or he would be 
placed under arrest.
Later, police received a call 
that the same man was on the 
steps of Warner Hall shouting 
and talking to himself. The man 
was immediately placed under 
arrest.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident report under 
the following guidlines:
 Chief of Campus Police, James 
LaPaglia, reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
EDWARD HAYES
Dziitwrinp The Frfct Pizzat
682 - 7272 (PAPA) 
4643 Baum Boulevard
Free Delivery!Gift Certificates!
Finals Week Special!
r-i
L.
LARGE ONE 
TOPPING PIZZA
only $5-99 + TAX
2 Weeks Only!
Free Delivery
Offer Expires 12/18/94
Free Pepperoncinis and Special 
Garlic Sauce with every order
-j

---------------------------------------------------

Eartique Savings.
$ 100 off standard hearing aids300 off Starkey Tympanette or
Octicon MultiFocus 
40% off batteries
Ar
is he 
to 01
Save^Cl' 
in-stock adult or children's 
frame*, non-prescription 
sunglasses, contact lenses 
and hearing aid supplies.
for two weeks only!
eulB 25 P SfzB 10
;SH ADYD IE6S 
822-7H(PD() 
4HYH3(D6-B2a
The saleis only 16 days, 
so hurry in for best selection 
(and for delicious re freshmen ts)!
See you here!
Complete vision and 
hearing examscall for 
appointment. Mon-Thurs, 
9am-9pm, Fri & Sat 9am-6pm.
Eartique Savings! $I00 off standard hearing aids  $300 off Starkey 
Tympanette or Octicon MultiFocus  40% off batteries
Wish you could buy the world's greatest 
eyewear at 40% OFF? You can!
xj,ddsG n,GG s.sI,js2242 Murray Ave.  422-5300
Pittsburgh's finest collection of unique fashion eyewear. Complete vision and hearing testing/hearing aids.
* Cartier, Gaultier, Oliver Peoples, Paid. Smith40% off lenses only. Previous purchases, special orders, disposable contact lenses excluded. No other discounts apply.
 Your wish 
is my 
command! 
l wish everyone 
would find 
the glasses 
of their dreams 
at HUGE savings!

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfc
WMSx zuDgrDwfF gu zb[Dyf
dining, from page 1
Dispensers for hot beverages, 
such as coffee, are another possi
bility about which Hamlin feels 
positive. Id like to have hot bev
erage dispensers in all high traf
fic areas, he said. They pay for 
themselves.
There is a possibility of outside 
dining establishments other than 
Dominos Pizza becoming acces
sible through CampusXpress and 
pineXpress. The contract with 
Dominos is being researched. If 
it is not an exclusive contract, 
Hamlin would like to provide 
some competition for Dominos.
Hamlin is also looking at invit
ing other outside establishments, 
both local and national, on cam- 
. pus. We want to have a local 
business presence on campus, 
he said. Mielke added that na
tional chains such as Pizza Hut, 
McDonalds, and Boston Rtis
serie Chicken are being consid
ered.
He is also looking to the future 
with the opening of the Univer
sity Center in the fall of 1996. 
We will have a combination of 
national and local brands in the 
University Center, in addition to 
Scotland Yard. According to stu
dent body president Declan 
McCullagh, Scotland Yard is 
going to open January 20. The 
location is in the Faculty/Staff 
Dining Room. McCullagh said 
that there will be a smoking sec
tion as well. The delay in open
ing is due to the fact that the 
original decorations could not be 
located at this time.
Corrections..
griI'x WTTt,e'O
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Students wait in line to receive the variety of food that the Highlander 
Cafe has to offer.
Mielke said, the PCOD will be 
looking at food plans for next 
year. These plans include new 
vegetarian options, extended late- 
night hours, and an improvement 
in food quality.
As always, student input is 
encouraged. Recently, Dining 
Services has been accepting com
ments through yellow note cards 
placed in Morewood Gardens and 
Highlander Cafe.
People can get their point 
across using the yellow cards, 
Mielke said. They do get acted 
on.
Theres been a lot of positive 
input, said Hamlin. Sometimes 
people think the comments would 
be snide ... [but] eight out of ten
[suggestions] have a comment for 
improving the business.
When improvements are made 
according to student comments, 
there will be cards indicating that, 
in order to assure the students 
that their comments are being 
considered.
There has been substantial 
change concerning dining on cam
pus in the past semester.
Mielke feels this is a positive 
thing, and he attributes it to 
Hamlin, who is concluding his 
first semester as Director of Din
ing Services.
[Hes] been a really good re
source ... Weve appreciated the 
support from administration and 
faculty, Mielke said.
xf[yC[hF WsT lrFrgF WMj
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
A press conference was held 
on Monday afternoon in the 
Hillel Center on South Craig 
Street for Edgar Bronfman. 
Bronfman, who is the chair
man and chief executive officer 
of Seagrams Company Ltd., 
was speaking on campus life 
for the Jewish people.
Bronfmanis a substantial do
nator to the Hillel International 
Center, from which the Hillel 
Center inPittsburgh is directly 
funded. Art Donsky, Director 
of Pittsburgh Hillel, said, Mr. 
Bronfman is one of the biggest, 
if not the biggest, contributor 
to the Hillel Foundation.
Bronfman invests a lot more 
than his money, though. He is 
the President of the World Jew
ish Congress, and is an active 
member of the Jewish commu
nity.
He has spent the fall making 
a tour of campuses and trying 
to find ways to improve the 
campus life of the Jewish stu
dents. According to Donsky, 
there are about 400,000 Jewish
college students in universities 
all over North America and the 
Hillel Foundation spends about 
$50 per student on activities and 
campus relations. Mr. Bronfman 
says he would like to see that 
amount doubled. said Donsky,
Speaking to the General As
sembly Council for the Jewish 
people, Bronfman outlined his 
intentions iorthe type ofimprove- 
ments that hed like to see in 
campus relations for Jewish stu
dents. 'There are three major 
Jewish organizations spending 
millions of dollars tracking anti
semitism in America right now. 
We need to stop counting the 
swastikas on the walls of mens 
restrooms and start spending that 
money where it will do some good, 
on the Jewish college students 
around the country.
In following up on his state
ments, Bronfman went online on 
Monday to send a message to 
thousands of Jewish students at 
once.
.Ruth Slater, the programming 
associate for CMU from the Jew
ish University Center said, Were 
absoIutelythrilledthatBronfman 
is taking such an active role in
the Jewish campus community. 
We also have every confidence 
that he will continue to bring to 
us a new era in student involve
ment across the nation.
For the press confexence on 
Monday, Donsky has contacted 
only a few small publications. 
Were tryingto keep this from 
becoming a big TV production. 
Weve invited all of the stu
dents that wish to attend, and 
The Pittsburgh Jewish Chron
icle. which is a small newspa
per publication here in Pitts
burgh. We want to keep things 
on a personal level for the stu
dents. The Jewish population 
has one of the lowest, if not the 
lowest, birth rates of any major 
group in; the United States. On 
average the couples that have 
child-bearing capabilities only 
have about 1.7 or 1.8 children 
per household. This is much 
lower than the national aver
age for other groups in the U.S. 
In addition to the 3:30 pm 
press conference and the on
line message, there was also a 
luncheon for Bronfman in the 
Student Center on the drill 
deck. Monday.
Tuesday
Four Day Outlook
Wednesday ThursdayFriday
The Tartan correets all known errors offact. Ifyou know ofan errar, please contact th Editor- 
in-Chief Andrew Sproule at x8-2111, or write him in care ofThe Tartan.There will be variable The wind will pick up a bit There will still be a chance Clouds will continue with 
cloudiness with lows in andtherewillbeachance of showers with the low a chance of showers, 
the high 30s. of showers. in the 30s. Highs in the mid 30s.
iDDw[ nurm[] WuDzfCg 
Af[gwCrDy gbf trgrf c[Dm
also performing ~ the CMU Jazz Choir
IwfFm[]p SfzfhkfC 6gb 
6-7 aBhB
[zwg] SrDrDy duuh
EMuCfvuum :[CmfDFK 
dfACfFbhfDgF vr kf FfClfmB
xauDFuCfm k] gbf 
Sfa[CghfDg uA xgwmfDg izgrlrgrfF

---------------------------------------------------

FORI IM
imhrDrFgC[gruD ryDuCfF 
FgwmfDgFp A[zwg]p Fg[AA
In response to the recent deci
sion by the administration to 
-censor sexually explicit bboards, 
the Faculty Senate, the Student 
Senate, and the Staff Counsel 
lhave all passed resolutions say
ing that the University made a 
mistake and should reconsider. 
Hence, the Administration set 
up a committee to make recom
mendations to the President. 
Instead of a representative and 
voluntary committee, the Uni
versity designated its chair, Vice 
Provost for Education, Erwin 
Steinberg, and in turn, he hand- 
selected the other members. 
Steinberg only chose two stu
dents to sit on his committee. 
The rest of the members are 
faculty and staff.
This committee is not exactly 
representative of the students 
ofCMU.
Not only has Steinberg stacked 
the committee against students, 
he will not allow any concerned 
students or reporters from the 
Associated Press and the Tar
tan to attend meetings.
The minutes posted to the 
cmu.official.news bboard are ap
proved by the committee before 
they are released, therefore, 
they do not include all of the 
meetings discussion, only what 
they want us to hear.
With so many students, fac
ulty, and staff all making rec
ommendations to the Univer
sity about the bboard decision, 
why havent they responded? 
Where is President Mehrabian? 
The last we heard, he stepped 
out five minutes before the 
Freedom in Cyberspace rally 
for an important lunch.
The administration doesnt lis
ten to the students who attend 
CMU. For the bboard issue, the 
university seems to have side
stepped the real issue by setting 
up a committee that will have 
no real student input  not to 
mention that the committee is 
not allowing information from 
the meetings to be given to any
one not on the committee.
We would recommend that the 
administration conduct more 
surveys and open forums. They 
set up Student Advisory Coun
sels like the Presidents and Vice 
Presidents SAC but again, these 
students are hand-picked. When 
the purpose of SAC is to get 
interested and concerned stu
dents involved, anyone should 
be allowed to attend and every
one should be encouraged to 
participate.
This is a strong and presti
gious University and the stu
dents who graduate from it are 
intelligent and independent. Its 
about time CMUs administra
tion acknowledged that, got in 
touch with the student body, 
and listened to what we have to 
say.
jDrlfCFrg] FbuvF kr[F 
k] aCuhugrDy CfryruDF
The Christmas and Hanuk- 
kah decorations in dining halls 
and other buildings on campus 
commemorate only two of the 
many holidays celebrated by the 
diverse student body. The festi
val of Kwanza is overlooked, as 
are the beliefs of all the non- 
Jewish and non-Christian stu
dents of which there are many.
Since the University cant deco
rate for all religions, beliefs, and 
customs, the University 
shouldnt decorate at all.
This is not to say that religion 
should be discouraged, or that 
the University should not pro
mote it. Religion certainly 
should be. But there are many 
clubs which do make religious 
observation accessible, and trees 
and tinsel do as much to teach 
one about Christmas as eggs
smrguCr[ SrFFfDg
teach one about Easter. The Uni
versity should not emphasize 
decorating with these commer
cialized symbols-leaveit to stu
dents in the privacy of their own 
rooms.
The University must be more 
sensitive to the diversity of its 
students. Though a Christmas 
tree isnt the same thing as a 
cross, it is still seen as a reli
gious symbol, having religious 
connotations, not the least of 
which is the acceptance of Jesus 
as the Savior. The University 
should not take any specific re
ligious stance; however, it 
should provide an open and tol
erant environment for all reli
gious beliefs. Displaying deco
rations from a few select reli
gions displays bias and favorit-
It seems to us that the only 
thing offensive in the above 
editorial is its stench of political 
correctness. Since when do shiny 
silver decorations offend any
body? Since when does the im
age of a fat man in a red suit 
make people want to file a legal 
suit of their own? Since when do 
domestic trees upset anybody 
but extreme environmentalists?
Where were the animal rights 
activists on Thanksgiving when 
turkey images were plastered 
around campus? When red 
hearts pop up everywhere in 
February, will there be com
plaints because Valentine hap
pened to be a Saint?
The Universitys decorations 
dont infringe on anyones reli
gious freedom, and they dont 
carry any offensive political or 
religious messages. Nobody wor
ships Santa, tinsel, or trees. 
Their only purpose is to bring 
about a festive mood. Hundreds 
of business owners seem to feel 
the same way. If Santa offends 
you, better not go shopping for a 
while.
Of course, turning religious 
holidays into marketing oppor
tunities may rightly be consid
ered offensive. But more offen
sive is turning harmless tinsel 
into offensive propaganda. This 
bickering over a non-issue is 
best left to politics not educa
tion.
 Edward Haye, Richard 
Smolen, Eric Strauss
Wuhhrggff zfDFuCF rgFfA
Declan McCullagh
The administrations committee cre
ated to review the censored Internet 
bulletin boards now has censored its 
own members.
At the December 1 meeting, a major
ity of the committee, prompted by the 
chair, voted to gag its members from 
releasing information about what the 
committee discusses.
This gag order is 
alarming, for the group 
of people who suppos
edly represent the cam
pus communitys con
cern about access to in
formation have now 
made detailed informa
tion about their discus
sions unavailable to the 
community.
The gag order was levied because 
Jackie Koscelnik, the Universitys at
torney, refused to speak unless it was 
off-the-record. She said she was afraid 
her comments might implicate the Uni
versity  a fear that is unfounded, ac
cording to lawyers specializing in online 
liabilities.
However, the committee not only cen
sored her comments, but stopped com
mittee members from discussing the 
remainder of the meeting. This violated 
the committees original policy, decided 
during the first meeting, to allow full 
disclosure of discussions.
President Robert Mehrabian created 
the bboard review committee last month 
after students, faculty, and staff pro
tested the administrations decision to 
censor almost 100 Internet bboards con
taining sex-related material. The 
committees voting members include two 
representatives each from Staff Coun
cil, Faculty Senate, and Student Gov
ernment, and the committee is chaired 
by Vice-Provost Erwin Steinberg, who 
has defended the current censorship 
policy to the press.
can access the banned bboards by using 
special software and connecting to other 
schools collections of the banned alt.bi- 
naries.pictures.erotica Internet bboards, 
the current policy isnt censorship.
Hes wrong. Take TV broadcasts of 
movies, for instance. When a TV station 
bleeps out certain obscene words from a 
movie, its still censorship even though 
you can rent the movie from a video 
store.
Steinbergs refusal to admit that the 
bboard ban is censorship shows in the 
way he runs committee meetings. One of 
the items he placed on the agenda  
without the consent of committee mem-
According to Steinberg, since students
The group of people who supposedly rep
resent the campus communitys concern 
about access to information have made 
detailed information about their discus
sions unavailable to the community.
bers  was, Is there no difference be
tween Joyces Ulysses and D.H. 
Lawrences Lady Chatterlys Lover on 
the one hand and the alt.binaries pic
tures on the other?
Is there a difference? Sure  the nov
els are composed of text and the 
alt.binaries.* trees carry images. But 
the danger of making this analogy is 
that the administrations censors are 
trying to judge the quality of the mes
sages posted to the Internet. Okay, a lot 
of the images on the banned bboards are 
poorly-photographed. But if the censors 
dont like the alt.binaries.* tree because 
of the quality of the photography, whats 
to stop them from banning grammati
cally poor discussions of Ulysses on 
netnews.bit.listserv.literary?
Steinberg has confused the issue fur
ther with another agenda item that read, 
If posting posters or calendars of scant
ily clad women is considered sexual 
harassment or creating a chilly climate, 
how will a picture of a bound woman 
being raped by a ski pole be considered? 
To dramatize his point, he passed around 
a green folder with that image in it, 
allegedly taken from one of the banned
bboards.
His argument, essentially that CMU 
should ban the bboards because images 
on them can be used to harass women, is 
misleading and deceptive. Carnegie 
Mellon University already has a policy 
in place prohibiting sexual harassment 
(Sexual harassment could be, but is not 
limited to... displaying sexually explicit 
pictures or other materials in a work 
environment.) If a male administrator 
stood in an office and quoted passages of 
Ulysses discussing penis lengths to a 
female co-worker, that could be harass
ment. But is that a reason to ban Ulysses 
from the library? Is that a reason to ban 
collections of porno
graphic artwork?
Because the commit
tee is becoming side
tracked by irrelevant 
issues like this one, it 
might take months to 
reach a final decision. 
For that reason, the 
members must con- 
sider the Faculty Sen
ate and Staff Council resolutions and 
bring back the censored bboards until 
the committee can investigate the issue 
in detail.
The original decision to ban the 
bboards was made in haste, in a single 
closed meeting of the Academic Council, 
without adequate legal advice, and at 
the insistence of Bill Arms, the same 
Computing Services vice president who 
went before the Human Relations Com
mission last year and tried to get the 
bboards banned. There is no legal, moral, 
or academic reason to keep the ban.
The committee should not uphold the 
administrations original arbitrary and 
flawed decision. It should reverse the 
ban and resist the urge to censor.
Declart McCullagh, student body presi
dent, is one of the two student members of 
the Bulletin Board Committee. More de
tailed information about the committee i 
can be found in /afs/andrew / usr/ sbpl 
Censorship and on graffiti, bboard-cen- 
sorship. Also, the Clitoral Hoods, a 
womens anti-censorship direct action 
group, is meeting today at the Craig 
Street Arabica at 7 pm.
Student faces bureaucratic nightmare
The Editors Notebook
Editors Notebook presents the individual opinion of the 
author only, not necessarily the opinions of The Tartan or of 
the Editorial Board.
Last week, I decided it would be cool if I could watch a movie 
with some friends in Doherty Hall 2210. Here is my story of 
dealing with the University. Last Monday, I went to the 
Registrars Office to try to reserve a room. I left a message 
with the receptionist (first university person). Later that 
evening, I had a message on my machine saying, What did 
you want this for? and Who are you?
So Tuesday afternoon, I called the Registrar and spoke with 
the woman in charge of room reservations (second university 
person). I said I wanted to reserve DH 2210 for myself and a 
bunch of friends to watch a movie. She seemed a little 
confused that a student would want to reserve a room and 
said that only student organizations, faculty, and staff could 
reserve rooms. She said I would have to talk to Student 
Activities. I asked if someone from Student Affairs would be 
fine, since I know Student Activities is usually pretty busy.
She said okay.
The receptionist at Student Affairs (third university per
son) sent me back to talk with an Assistant to the Dean. I s 
spoke with him (fourth university person) for a while and he 
expressed amazement that I was having so much difficulty. 
However, he was not sure if he was allowed to reserve a room 
and said I should talk to Student Activities.
So I walked down to Student Activities and talked to one of 
the folks down there (fifth university person). She was able to 
set up a meeting for me with Dean Witchner later in the day. 
While waiting to meet with Dean Witchner, I walked over to 
Instructional Technology (IT) to find out about the VCR in DH 
2210.
At the front desk, I was directed by the receptionist (sixth 
university person) to the equipment room. There, I was 
greeted by a friendly IT person (seventh university person) 
who asked me what I needed. I told him and he asked me what 
organization I was with. I said just me and a couple of friends.
He said he wasnt sure whether I could use the VCR, and got 
his supervisor (eighth university person). This supervisor 
was the most antagonistic person I had to deal with on my 
entire trip.
I was told that students could not use IT equipment, except 
for the carrols in the library; IT equipment was only fr 
instructional purposes, not recreational purposes; and even if 
Please see BUREAUCRACY, page 8

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfv
SuzguCF z[D'g F[lf wF ACuh uwCFflfF
Matt Ball
After a recent column questioning com
mon pediatric medical practices, I re
ceived a berating email message: If you 
have concerns about a vaccine, tell your 
doctor and let him decide. After all, he is 
the expert.
Looking to experts for answers is a 
common crutch for most people. In this 
case, the pediatrician allegedly knows 
everything, while we as new parents 
know nothing. This doctor, however, did 
not know that while children continue to 
catch polio from the vaccine, no one in 
the Western Hemisphere has contracted 
polio, naturally, in years, and there has 
not been a case of wild polio in the 
United States for 15 years. He did not 
mention that children who died less than 
24 hours after receiving a set of vaccines 
are generally put down as cases of sud
den infant death syndrome (SIDS), de
spite protestations of parents and oth
ers. He never considered that vaccines 
might have less than perfect efficacy,
although, for example, the New England 
Journal of Medicine reported that in states 
with comprehensive (K-12) immunization 
programs, 61-90 percent of measles cases 
occur in persons who were vaccinated.
Yet this is the expert into whose hands 
I am to blindly entrust the life of my 
daughter.
The point of my columns has never been
to force someone to hold a cer- ________
tain opinion. It is not possible to 
convey in a few thousand inked 
characters that vaccines de
serve scrutiny, that abortion is 
more complicated than the 
rhetoric of life, that sentience 
is the only consistent basis for 
granting rights, or that consum
ing the corpses of murdered ani
mals is destructive, cruel, and -------------
immoral. 
Rather than being propaganda espous
ing a particular world view, these essays 
are typed with the hope that people will 
question.
Lets face it, many make money because 
most do not question the status quo. The 
drug makers and doctors get rich because 
people do not take responsibility for their 
own health through diet and exercise, but 
rather expect a pill, shot, cut, or tuck to
cure whatever ails them. The medical in
dustry is Big Business based on people 
being sick.
The news is constantly filled with the 
latest medical breakthrough  research
ers find genes that cause diabetes and 
breast cancer, cancers cure is right around 
the corner, heart disease is vanquished by 
oat bran, red wine, fish oils, etc.but no
The drug makers and doctors get 
rich because people do not take 
responsibility for their own health, 
but expect a pill, shot, cut, or tuck 
to cure whatever ails them.
one has the guts to report the truth: that 
what we eat kills us. The cures to the 
diseases that will shorten most of our lives 
lie in what we choose to eat.
Dr. T. Colin Campbell of Cornell Univer
sity has extensively studied the Chinese 
and found that the less flesh, eggs, and 
dairy they consumed, the lower their inci
dence of heart disease, cancer, and other 
degenerative diseases of the West. There
was no threshold to this effect. Another 
study, of Seventh Day Adventists in the 
US, showed that those who followed a veg
etarian diet lived five to seven years longer 
than their meat-eating counterparts. This 
year, the British Medical Journal reported 
that, after correcting for other risk factors, 
vegetarians were 40 percent less likely to 
die from all cancers. Yet, the researchers 
____________ vacillated on endorsing a veg
etarian diet.
Why? In part because meat 
is an incredibly ingrained 
aspect of our culture, associ
ated with affluence and 
abundance. This myth, in 
turn, is fed by the advertis
ing budgets of those who 
make a handsome living
------------------- butchering animals and cloe-
ging peoples arteries.
And we, on one dying end of this murder
ous scheme, feed the cycle by turning our 
minds over to those with the glossiest pages, 
the fanciest titles, and the biggest words. 
In the end, we pay the price.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in engineering 
and public policy who wishes everyone a 
thoughtful and compassionate holiday sea
son.
[g g[V FulfF aCukfhFp h[UfF afCAfzg FfDFf
M1 Ronak Singhal
Imagine this scenario: You buy 
an appliance and decide to pay 
for it over the course of one year. 
You make a payment each month, 
but at the end of the twelve 
months, the company informs you 
that you have overpaid them and 
now you get a refund.
Of course, this doesnt happen 
often  people arent willing to 
spend more money than they need 
to. Yet this form of money collec
tion is still practiced in America 
on a very large scale. The culprit 
is the United States government, 
which withholds money from 
peoples paychecks, later realizes 
that people have overpaid, and 
gives them back a refund. This is
one drawback of our current tax 
system, and it could be remedied 
along with various other prob
lems under a new taxation 
method.
The current tax system in this 
country is a graduated income 
tax, in which people who have 
more income have to pay a 
higher percentage of taxes. 
Income is not limited to 
personal earnings from a job; 
it includes other revenue, 
such as dividends and sale of 
stock. Under this system, 
there exists a great incentive 
to either under-report earn
ings or shelter money in
incomes.
These problems have prompted 
two new ideas for taxation, both 
of which have been discussed in 
recent weeks. One proposal in
volves a consumption tax that 
would basically tax as you spend.
argue that higher-priced items 
should be taxed more. (This 
sounds a lot like the luxury tax 
that was imposed several years 
ago, and ended up being a miser
able failure.)
Another problem with a con-
The current system of income taxation in 
this country discourages risk-taking 
among investors who create jobs, encour
ages cheating on taxes, and penalizes 
people for being successful.
places where Uncle Sam can
not get,his hands on it. As a -It would be either anational sales 
result, the government collects tax or a value-added tax (VAT), 
less money than expected. A The proponents of a consumption 
graduated income tax also acts ,tax say that it would encourage 
as a disincentive for investment people to save money. Opponents 
by penalizing those with higher say that the tax is regressive, and
sumption tax, especially a VAT, 
is that its hidden from the con
sumer. We have no way of seeing 
exactly how much of the money 
being spent is going to the gov
ernment.
Another proposal is a flat tax. 
Representative Dick Armey of 
Texas has proposed that the cur
rent system be scrapped and re
placed with a true flat income 
tax. Every working person in 
America would pay the same per-
 centage of their income to 
the government. Obviously, 
people with higher incomes 
will have to pay more than 
people with lower incomes. 
There would be no yearly 
tax form, like the current 
one due on April 15. Instead, 
every month people would 
fill out a form and pay their
 taxes; the proposed tax form 
is about 10 lines long, and
about the size of the postcard.
Armeys idea would result in 
great simplification. People would 
pay taxes just on the money they 
earned by working. They would 
Please see TAXATION, page 8
East End Tutoring Program enlightens students, tutors
Beth Gariano
Two weeks into the semester I real
ized that I needed to drop one of my 
classes, but somehow keep my number 
of units in a safe range. I began scouring 
the course catalogue for a feasible an
swer. After almost finishing the book 
and exhausting all possibilities, I went 
past the CSW listings to the last item  
Tutoring, Mentoring, and Role Model
ing (99-200). I found out that I could 
earn six units just by tutoring once a 
week and going to class every other 
week. As a pass/fail course, it seemed too 
good to be true.
The truth is, it turned out to be even 
better. We had a choice of tutoring at the 
elementary, middle school, and high 
school levels. I chose high school, even
though it meant helping students with 
algebra rather than English, as I had 
hoped. I was nervous the first morning as 
we rode to Allderdice High School, but 
when we arrived I quickly relaxed. We 
were assigned to groups of four or five 
students in the classroom. They were work
ing on problems from 
their textbook, and many 
needed our help. They 
were quick to ask ques
tions and by the end of 
the period one student 
asked me if I wanted to be i 
a teacher. When I asked why, he responded 
that I should be one because I really helped 
him understand the problems. That mo
ment was one of the greatest feelings I 
have ever experienced.
In addition to the fulfillment of helping 
someone learn a concept, there were the 
friendships we developed with the stu
dents themselves. One student in particu
lar, Mike, really caught my attention. Af-
ter we finished the problems he began to 
ask me all kinds of questions about CMU 
and college in general. He had a sense of 
humor that immediately warmed up the 
conversation, and asked extremely bright 
and intelligent questions. The first two 
things he asked me were What colleges
As well as getting to know the students, 
I have begun to understand the problems 
these kids face every day of their lives.
did you want to go to? and  I still laugh 
about this one  Do yall run around 
without your panties on? (referring to my 
sorority). Since then, I have always gone 
out of my way to work with Mike, though 
I do enjoy helping the other students as 
well.
The East End Tutoring Program (so 
named because tutoring is carried out in 
east-side schools in Pittsburgh) has really
made me open my eyes to what goes on in 
the local schools, and the needs of the stu
dents there. As well as getting to know the 
students, I have begun to understand the 
problems these kids face every day of their 
lives. Because the program includes train
ing and education for us as well, I was 
brought out of my shel
tered little world to real
ize that even in what ap
pears to be a safe school, 
gangs and violence are
______________ very real. With security
guards walking the halls 
and the threat of past disturbances still in 
the air, its hard to ignore the tension among 
the students and the administration.
Not only have I learned a great deal about 
the kids and their lives through this pro
gram, I have also come to many realiza
tions about myself. The most important 
aspect I received from tutoring is the dis
covery of what I have known most of my life, 
Please see TUTORS, page 8
A PERSONS
OPINION
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
CMUs Greek system gives 
students the opportunity to 
join a fraternity or a sorority 
for social and extracurricu
lar purposes. But these insti
tutions arent popular with 
everyone. We asked students: 
What do you think of the 
Greek system at CMU?
Christine Allard
Freshman
H&SS
Im sick of abrasive stereo
types. The Greeks are people 
too.
Eric Silinsh 
Fifth year Senior 
Architecture
On the whole, I dont deal 
with them well. Person to per
son, theyre fine.
Alexis Sottile
Freshman
BHA
No matter how bad things 
are in my life, no matter how 
hard this school is, at least Im 
not in a sorority.
Anne M. Donovan
Sophomore
IDS
Fraternities and sororities 
give students the opportunity to 
meet more people. Ive really 
enjoyed my experience in soror
ity life.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
'A
Editor-in-Chief....Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed. .Samuel Greenfield
Business Manager........Amlt Kar 
News Ed..................Edward Hayes
Forum Editor...............Abby Schiff
Sports Editor..........Eric Strauss i
Features Editor......Eric Salzman
Diversions Editor ....Kathy Wright
Calendar Ed.......Jonmichael Moy ,
Dossier Literary Ed. Lauren Heinz  
Dossier Dsgn. Ed.Brockett Horne 
Art Co-Editors...........Mark Eggert;
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor................Jim Snyder ,
Production Mgr.....Katie Swango
Personnel Mgr......Angela Moiloy
Copy Mgr...........Richard Smolen
Systems Mgr.....Chad McDaniel
Asst. Forum Ed.......Kris Hlnrichs
Asst. Sports Ed. Matthew Solitro
Asst. Features Ed.........Allle King >
Asst. Div. Ed. ...Paul Tabachneck
Asst. Prod. Mgr......Derek Wahila
Darkroom Mgr.....Evan Shechter
Photo Staff Manager. David Perry
Senior Staff 
Matt Ball, Ken Kraemer, Declan 
McCullagh, Andrew McDermott
Staffwriters 
Jason Andracki, John Biggs, Steven 
Burns, Max Chittister, Carey 
Clevenger, Mahua Dutta, Shan
non Glbney, Dan Goldwasser, Anuj 
Gupta, Tom Harper, Jason Heinleln, 
Vladimir Labeikovsky, Deena 
Newsom, David Osorio, Ronak 
Singhal, Jon Slenk, James 
Stepanek, Bethany Sutton, Bill 
Vandermark, Sharmila 
Venkatasubbeen, Dawn 
Wallhausen, Susan Watson, John 
Weber, Heather Zindle
Art
Justin Carroll, Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Robert Brunskill, 
Nick Casciato Jr., Matt Goldberg, 
Mark Kantrowltz, Christopher 
Nelson, Jackson Tam, David White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Tushar Dubey, Rob 
Earhart, Bassem El-Dasher, An
drew Flores, Janet Lee, Pat 
Prasangslt, Jason Siegendorf, 
JacksonTam, Marla Valenti, Cheryl 
Viaud, Natalie Wochele
Darkroom 
Rachel Noack, Margaret Stallings
Production 
Roula Abdel-Baki, Heather 
Alexander, Kathy Liu, Jason Ma, 
Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Shantanu Rana
Copy
Lee Abernathy, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Winter Mason, 
Diane Ohm, Ed Siavlshak, Roger 
Wang
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
David Brannlng, Seth A. Covitz, 
Manoo Halati, Adam Klivans, Ron 
Kurti, Rolf Neill, John Fletcher, 
Lester Manzano, Suzanne Pad
dock, Nicole Poisson, Emily 
Rosenthal, Caleb Sidel, Danieiia 
Topol, Daniel Yanger
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Cam-, 
egie Mellon University. It is a weekly newspa
per published by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, at no cost to members of 
the University community. It is printed by West
ern Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions 
are available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that letters 
be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright  1994 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
>t

---------------------------------------------------

mnsi ndeSdp C rdepitFi aiFuDp o c .iTiyWie hggf
SESSION: JULY 5
Student tutors gain perspective
TUTORS, from page 7
but refused to admit. I have always pushed 
myself toward the money-making ambition, and 
that isnt a bad thing, but the project has made 
me realize that I have always been happiest 
helping others, especially kids. For myself, the 
quick million isnt a realistic lifelong goal  not 
that Id mind, of course! But teachinghas always
struck a chord within me and I can no longer 
ignore it.
The East End Tutoring Program helped me 
realize that teaching, when done with enthusi
asm and devotion, can be just as fulfillingif not 
more so  than a high-profile corporate job.
Beth Gariano is a junior creative writing major.
efv g[V[gruD aCuauF[ 
uAAfCF A[rC [gfCD[grlf
TAXATION, from page 7
not have to pay for items such as 
dividends that have already been 
taxed at other levels. This would 
eliminate the double-taxing of 
items in our economy. Also, the 
only deduction would be a stan
dard one, based on the size of 
ones family, so that people 
wouldnt be penalized for having 
children.
The main argument with 
Armeys proposal is that it would 
almost definitely cause revenues 
to fall if the percentage were set
at a rate similar to our current 
one. But a revenue reduction may 
finally force our government to 
cut back on needless spending. 
Taxes would probably increase 
for some people under a flat tax, 
but for the majority, taxes would 
stay the same or decrease. Fi
nally, with the elimination of 
withholding tax, people might 
start holding our government ac
countable for the personal checks 
theyd be sending to the IRS ev
ery month.
The current system of income
taxation in this country discour
ages risk-taking among investors 
who create jobs, encourages 
cheating on taxes, and penalizes 
people for being successful.
The flat tax proposal eliminates 
these problems, and it makes 
sense. Representative Armeys 
proposal is a sound one, and it 
should receive serious consider
ation.
Ronak Singhal is a sophomore 
ECE major who prefers his drinks 
shaken, not stirred.
Bureaucracy proves ineffective
BUREAUCRACY, from page 6
I could use the equipment, it 
would cost me $50. Keep in mind
I only wanted a cabinet unlocked 
in DH 2210  the equipment is 
ready to use. I do not think $50 is 
worth getting someone to unlock 
the cabinet.
So then I asked the supervisor 
if a dean could reserve the equip
ment and I was asked, Why 
would a dean want to do some
thing like that? I decided DH 
2210 was a lost cause so I asked 
about the media classroom next 
door. I was told, That classroom 
is only for staff meeting and for 
classes. I declined to tell the su
pervisor about the time I had a 
staff meeting where the staff 
member showed his copy of an 
episode of Star Trek: The Next
Generation. So I thanked the su
pervisor and left.
I then cancelled my appoint
ment with Dean Witchner. I also 
called the Registrars office and 
left a message with one other 
person (ninth university person) 
and said that I would not need 
the room. There is no point in 
reserving a room if I cant get the 
VCR.
What other alternatives were 
there? Well, I could have reserved 
a TV in a residence hall and pos
sibly gotten a VCR from SDC, but 
Im not a resident, and I dont 
really want to watch a movie in a 
residence hall. And I could have 
really raised a big stink, instead 
of trying to be polite. It seems 
that when dealing with the ad
ministration, being mean can
usually get you farther than be
ing nice.
The people I spoke with at Stu
dent Activities and at Student 
Affairs said what happened was 
ridiculous, and they said they 
would work on a place where com
muter students could do things 
like watch movies. The folks at 
Student Activits and Student 
Affairs were very friendly and 
helpful.
The University pisses me off 
sometimes, and last week was a 
pretty good example. I guess I 
should be happy because the 
University is preparing me to deal 
with all sorts of asinine bureau
cracies when I leave. Ah, well.... 
Maybe I can watch a movie an
other day.
 Sam Greenfield
Washington, DC
GRADUATE  UNDERGRADUATE 
STUDY ABROAD  HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS
For information call 
(202) 99 4 - 6360
or write us at 
2121 I St., NW  Washington, DC 20052 
for our Summer Sessions Announcement.
GW is an equal opportunity institution.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
I[Cg[DF wa vrDDrDy FgCf[U gu gbCff
j}y JOHN FLETCHER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens basket
ball team had a very successful two 
weeks, as they went 32 to improve to 5-
2 on the season (11 in the UAA). In
cluded in that stretch were two big wins 
this past weekend, as the Tartans de
feated UAA rival Emory 75-67 Friday 
night and Dickinson College 75-64 on 
Saturday night. The two losses suffered 
by the team were close contests which 
could have been won by either team.
12 points and senior guard Steve 
Athanas with 10 points. Junior forward 
Jon Blanciak had a double-double with 
12 points and 14 rebounds.
In the overtime loss to Alma in the 
first round of the Thanksgiving Classic, 
the leading scorer and rebounder was 
Blanciak. He had 22 points and a season 
high 22 rebounds in recording his sec
ond double-double in as many games. 
Athanas and Bodnar gave solid perfor
mances also. Athanas scored 21 points 
on 10 of 16 shooting, and dished out six 
assists. Bodnar scored 19 points and
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Senior guard Steve Athanas directs the Tartan offense against Emory.
They were defeated by Case Western 
Reserve 83-78 on November 22 and lost 
to Alma College 91-89 in overtime on 
November 26. Since those two losses, 
the Tartans have gone 3-0, with their 
other win coming last Sunday against 
SUNY-Oswego, 88-80.
In the loss to Case Western, the lead
ing scorer was junior forward Kevin 
Byrne. Byrne scored 18 points in the 
contest. Also scoring in double figures 
were sophomore guard Rich Bodnar with
hauled in 11 rebounds. The Tartans out 
rebounded Alma 60-43, but it wasnt 
enough to offset a poor shooting perfor
mance. Alma shot 52 percent to the 
Tartans 37 percent.
In the consolation game of the Thanks
giving Classic, CMU defeated SUNY- 
Oswego 88-80 to take third place. The 
leading scorers in this contest were Byrne 
and Bodnar. Byrne had 16 points and 19 
rebounds in picking up for Blanciak, 
who missed the game due to a mild ankle
sprain. Bodnar scored 16 points on 5 of 
10 shooting, and dished out five assists 
in leading the Tartans. Also scoring in 
double figures were junior guard Gregg 
Lassan with 15 points, junior forward 
Eric Ronzio with 10 points, and Athanas 
with 15 points. The Tartans out-re- 
bounded SUNY-Oswego 56-38, outshot 
them 44 percent to 42 percent, and at
tempted a season high 51 free throws, 
making 31 of them.
On Friday night, the Tartans defeated 
UAA opponent Emory 75-67. Leading 
the team in scoring and assists was 
Athanas. Athanas scored 21 points on 7 
of 10 shooting, and handed out six as
sists to lead the team. Also scoring in 
double figures was Bodnar who scored
17 points on 5 of 10 shooting, including 
three 3-pointers. Byrne registered a 
double-double with 15 points and 19 
rebounds. The Tartans out rebounded 
Emory 43-33, and shot 45 percent, while 
holding their opponent to 37 percent 
shooting.
We had a very good run for the last 
five minutes of the first half, and then 
we let them back in the game early in the 
second, said head coach Tony Wingen of 
his teams performance. In the second 
half the Tartans made only 17 out of 
their 29 free throw attempts.
We had a good stretch from about the 
eight minute mark to the three minute 
mark at the end where we extended the 
lead to 12 or 14 points, said Wingen on 
the poor free-throw shooting. Then we 
ended up missing 9 out of our last 14 free 
throws, which, if youre trying to extend 
a lead and win a game, youve got to 
make your free throws.
In Saturday nights 75-64 win over 
the Dickinson College Red Devils, the 
Tartans played what seemed to be the 
best defense they have played all sea
son. The leading scorer in the game was 
Bodnar with 22 points on 9 of 15 shoot
ing.
I thought Richy played really well, 
said Blanciak on the performance of his 
teammate. He is starting to hit his 
shots. Registering double-doubles were
Blanciak and Byrne. Blanciak had 16 
points and 11 rebounds, while Byrne 
had 13 points and 12 rebounds. Also 
scoring in double figures for the Tartans 
was Lassan, who scored 10 points off the 
bench. Athanas handed out a season- 
high 11 assists, in leading the teams
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Junior forward Kevin Byrne battles to block out an Emory 
player for a rebound.
offense throughout the game.
Steve had another good night tonight. 
Eleven assists is tremendous, and his 
performances continue to be outstand
ing, said Wingen about the 5'11" point 
guard. The Tartans out-rebounded 
Dickinson 4435, as they continue to 
dominate their opponents on the boards.
We are continuing to rebound well, 
said Wingen. We are double figures in 
rebounding advantage on the season, 
and thats terrific.
The Tartans also forced 23 turnovers, 
a sign of their improving defense. Thats 
a lot, and that is a goal of ours: to force 20 
turnovers a game, said Wingen.
Defense picked up tonight. Weve not 
been playing so well defensively. Today, 
it was better, said Blanciak about the
teams defensive effort. The Tartans shot 
only 41 percent from the field, but took 
19 more shots than the Red Devils, who 
shot 45 percent.
This was as close to a full game of 
good team defense that we have played 
all year, said Wingen. The Tartans also 
made 79 percent of their 
free throws compared 
with Dickinsons 65 per
cent. The upside to
night was that we made 
our free throws, but if 
we are going to compete 
well in the UAA, weve 
got to be able to handle 
things down the stretch 
better than we have the 
last couple of games, 
said Wingen on turn
overs made late in the 
game.
The Tartans have two 
more games remaining 
before the Christmas 
break. They are away 
against Juniata College 
on December 8 and at 
home against LaRoche 
C ollege on D ecember 11. 
Were real happy with 
two wins over the week
end. Weve got to keep 
improving everyday, and hopefully we 
will go 7-2 at the break, said team 
captain Athanas about the teams sta
tus.
The Tartans, who were picked to fin
ish near the bottom of the UAA, are 
slowly trying to prove the rankings 
wrong.
Were 5-2, but were not playing the 
best ball we can yet. I think we are going 
to sneak up on some people, said Bodnar.
Were making little steps and little 
progresses everyday. Were 5-2 right 
now, with two games that we can win 
remaining. I am real pleased with our 
position, commented Wingen on his 
teams overall performance this season.
The Tartans return to action Thurs
day at Juniata College.
WMj vrDF [g M[Crfgg[p FgCwyyfF rD jii
Andrew iVIcDermott/Tartan photographer 
Sophomore Kelly Gaitens looks for an open player 
while sophomore Rebecca McCadney posts up.
By STEVEN BURNS
Tartan Staffwriter
and a champion- 
ship at the 
Marietta Tour
nament.
The women 
first traveled to 
Cleveland to 
face Case West
ern Reserve 
University in 
their first UAA 
matchup of the 
year. They kept 
the score close 
through the first 
half, going to the 
locker room tied 
30-30. How
ever, CWRU 
pulled away in 
the second half 
to win by a 65-52 margin. We 
had an up and down game, said 
head coach Gerri Seidl. Turn
overs really hurt us in the second 
half.
Freshman Katie OLeary scored
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
basketball team has seen a lot of
action over the past two weeks. _________ _ .
They played five games, compil- a game high 18 points while puli
ng a 2-3 record to give them a 3- ing in 12 rebounds. Other high- 
4 record overall. Their matchups lights for the Tartans included 
have featured two University seniorJennyGretzwithl2points 
Athletic Association matchups and sophomore Rebecca Mc
Cadney with nine rebounds.
The Tartans next traveled to 
Marietta for a tournament dur
ing Thanksgiving break, and 
came away with the champion
ship.
The women faced Denison in 
their opening round matchup. 
Denison jumped out to an early 
lead, but the Tartans kept it close 
throughout the game. They man
aged to pull ahead with about 
two minutes left to go on to vic
tory. Gretz led the Tartans with a 
career high 25 points while 
Kristen Kupfer added 14 points 
and OLeary and McCadney 
teamed up for 17 rebounds.
Hannover was the Tartans op
ponent in the championship 
game. The Tartans started off 
very well and took a 24-12 lead 
into half-time. From that point 
the teams played even and 
Carnegie Mellon took home the 
championship with a 5949 vic
tory. Gretz again led the Tartans 
with a game high 21 points. 
Sophomore Kristen Kupfer added 
18 points and pulled in 16 re
bounds.
Winning this tournament was
very good for us, said Seidl. We 
played very well defensively and 
that helped us. The Tartans held 
Denison to a 32 percent field goal 
percentage and allowed Hann
over a meager 
31 percent 
from the floor.
Gretz and 
Kupfer were 
named to the 
all-tourna
ment team, 
and Gretz was 
named the 
tournament 
most valuable 
player. As a re
sult of Gretzs 
performance 
in the tourna
ment and the 
previous game 
at Case West
ern she was 
named UAA 
Player of the 
Week. She av
eraged 19.3 
points per 
game during 
these three
games. Seidl praised Gretz in 
saying, Jenny plays a great 
game. She is a real team leader 
and plays all aspects of the game. 
The Tartans then came home
Andrew McDermott/Tartan photographer 
Senior Jenny Gretz puts up a jumper in a crowd of 
Emory Eagles as sophomore Daphne Harris looks on.
to face Waynesburg on Wednes
day. Waynesburg brought a pow
erful outside game with them as 
they shot at a 51 percent clip 
from the floor and at an amazing 
55 percent clip from behind the 
three-point arc. The Tartans 
werent able to keep up with the 
attack as Waynesburg pulled 
away for a 75-53 victory. Kupfer 
scored 26 points and grabbed 15 
rebounds in a losing effort.
The Tartans then faced their 
UAA rival Emory on Friday. The 
Tartans were able to keep the 
game close during the first half, 
but Emory used its fast transi
tion game to pull away from the 
Tartans and win by a score of 73 
50 and drop the Tartans UAA 
record to 0-2.
OLeary led the Tartans with 
12 points and 13 rebounds. Kupfer 
added 11 points and nine re
bounds. Gretz and sophomore 
Kelly Gaitens each added 10 
points.
The Tartans played William 
Smith College at Skibo Gym yes
terday. Their next action is at the 
Ohio Northern University tour
nament on December 2930.
Wu[zb af[Ffm vrgb rDmrlrmw[ afCAuCh[DzfF
By DAVID OSORIO
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Men and 
/^omens Swimming team traveled to 
Baltimore last weekend to compete 
against Johns Hopkins and Gettysburg 
111 a meet that would decide some of the 
swimmers who would qualify for theNationals.
The womens team swam well accord- 
jjjgtohead coach Jim Cutrone, although 
hey were a bit tired because of the 
rigorous training.
Junior Rebecca Fruehan swam excep
tionally by getting second place in the200-yard individual medley and the 100-
yard freestyle event, and first place in
the 200-yard freestyle event. Her times 
for these events were recorded as provi-
Training has been incredible, 
and this is the most dedicated 
team I have ever coached. 
 Jim Cutrone, swim coach
sional national qualifying times.
Sophomore Christina Hagopian and 
freshman Carly Cenedella also gave fine 
performances in the 500-yard freestyle
event and another prime performance 
came from senior Sarah Broadley who
________________ swam a 400-yard
freestyle relay split 
of 57.00 seconds.
Even though 
Carnegie Mellon 
placed third in this 
event with Johns 
Hopkins on top and 
Gettysburg second, 
Cutrone said he was 
very pleased with 
our fall season. 
Training has been incredible, and this is 
the most dedicated team I have ever 
coached.... I look for the commitment to 
swimming fast to continue until Febru
ary. It is a long six-month season.
The mens team performance was ex
cellent according to Cutrone, they had 
their fastest time of the year for the 400- 
yard medley relay (3:43.15 minutes), 
the 400-yard freestyle relay (3:17.08 min
utes), and the 200-yard freestyle relay 
(1:29.43 minutes).
These three events were a combined 
effort by freshman Jake McGuire, junior 
Matthew Moe, junior Geoff Waller, jun
ior Mike Berty, freshman Mike Foster, 
and sophomore Chris ORourke.
Jeff Milton had an exceptional meet, 
performing excellently in the 200, 500, 
and 1,650-yard events.
Geoff Waller placed second in both the 
400-yard individual medley and the 200-
yard butterfly.
The teams next meet is the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh Team Classic, which 
takes place on Saturday.
The team travels to Florida from De
cember 28-January 12 to train. While in 
Florida, they will swim in the Hall of 
Fame Classic at Fort Lauderdale on 
New Years Eve.
On January 11, they will swim against 
UAA foe New York University, also in 
Fort Lauderdale.
On January 13, the team hosts the 
University of Rochester and hosts Hiram 
College and Mount Union College the 
following day.
UAA championships are February 16-
18 at Emory University.

---------------------------------------------------

Wnsio G,:nIx^
Fly standby.
Its like camping out for concerts, 
but the people bathe.
Buy your tickets in August.
That's when airfares are lowest. 
Consider reserving a vegetarian meal.
>)- Look into courier flights.
Ask what you'll be delivering. So you 
dont end up in a Third World prison.
Organize a charter.
Bring your friends. If you have none, 
classmates and relatives will do.
Get a Citibank Classic card.
Youll get discounts off domestic and 
international* flights.
*Get an ISE International Student I.D. card to qualify for international 
flights and other travel related savings.

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfhh
If[hF rDf wa gu mfgbCuDf Wuvku]F
Quarterback Sneak 
By John Weber
This is the last printing of the Tartan 
in 1994, so its time to start thinking 
playoffs. In fact, we wont be back until 
January, so Ill tell you now whos going 
to be playing in the NFC and AFC cham
pionship games.
Lets start with the NFC, because thats 
easy. The Dallas Cowboys and the San 
Francisco 49ers will meet in Candle
stick Park for the NFC Championship. 
There is almost no doubt that these two 
teams are destined to meet again, and I 
dont think anyone is going to be able to 
stop them. As far as the Super Bowl 
goes, everyone knows that the Cowboys 
have the ability to win their third, but 
four obstacles stand in their way. First 
and most important: injuries. Emmitt 
Smith and Troy Aikman top the list of 
injured warriors. If Smith is unable to
play in any playoff game, the Cowboys 
will lose. If Aikman is unable to play in 
any playoff game, the Cowboys chances 
of advancing are slim. Along with 
Michael Irvin and Alvin Harper, these 
two are essential to the Cowboys suc
cessful offensive attack. Second, the Cow
boys venture into the playoffs without 
Jimmy Johnson. Now is 
the time when well find 
out what kind of coach 
Barry Switzer is. Third, 
the Cowboys must try to 
do something that hasnt 
been done by any team in 
history, win three Super 
Bowls in a row. Finally, 
the Cowboys must get 
past the 49ers for the third consecutive 
year.
The third times a charm, and this 
could very well be the year for the 49ers. 
By beating the Cowboys in the regular 
season, the 49ers have the opportunity 
to win home field advantage throughout 
the playoffs. The offense speaks for it
self, but there are still some question 
marks on defense. Deion Sanders has 
helped, but the defense has still not 
elevated itself to the next level. Oppo
nents can still push the 49er defense 
around, demonstrated so well by the
Rams in their comeback attempt a few 
weeks ago. Unlike the Cowboys, how
ever, the 49ers dont have many inju
ries, and their banged up offensive line 
is beginning to come back together. (Be
lieve me, theyll need it against the Cow
boys front four.)
The NFC playoffs should still be inter-
This year Im predicting the downest 
and dirtiest [AFC] Championship 
game in a long, long time: the 
Browns and the Steelers.
esting, even if no one seems to be able to 
match up against the Cowboys or 49ers. 
The Eagles have made vast improve
ments this year on both sides of the ball, 
but they cant win the big games. The 
Vikings have an incredible defensive 
line, but Warren Moon has not been able 
to deliver a consistent offensive attack 
yet. If the Packers could clone Reggie 
White, they wouldbe Super Bowl bound, 
but they cant, so they wont. And as for 
the Cardinals, Bears, and Falcons, they 
may make the playoffs, but if they do, 
they will be on the road in uphill battles.
The AFC playoff picture, as usual, is 
not so cut and dry. This year Im predict
ing the downest and dirtiest Champion
ship game in a long, long time: the 
Browns and the Steelers; two teams 
with incredible defenses and just enough 
offense to get them there. Sure, it isnt 
going to be easy, but it could very well 
happen. Both teams are 
very much alike. Both have 
incredible defenses, two av
erage quarterbacks, and a 
punishing running game. 
One of the two teams, how
ever, to make this champi
onship game come true, 
cccccca will be a wildcard team and 
will have to win on the road 
at least once, probably in San Diego or 
Miami.
In the East, the Dolphins have the 
upper hand, and then some. Defensively, 
the Dolphins have the usual concerns 
going into the playoffs, but hey, at least 
Marinos healthy. The Bills are not go
ing to go to their fifth consecutive Super 
Bowl. The Bills offense is still effective, 
but opponents have learned to contain 
Bruce Smith and attack the Bills de
fense.
Finally, in the East, we have the in
consistent Jets and Patriots. (The Pats
also lack a solid defense.) Either team 
could sneak into the playoffs, but not 
very far.
In the West we have the incredible 
story of the San Diego Chargers. They 
have beaten the Chiefs twice, in essence, 
winning the West. The Chargers also 
have a very solid defense built around 
Junior Seau. In addition, they have what 
the Steelers and Browns do not  an 
effective offensive attack both on the 
ground and through the air. Stan 
Humphries provides the air attack while 
Natrone Means provides the ground 
game.
As long as Humphries stays healthy, 
the Chargers chances in the playoffs are 
very good. However, since I dont expect 
the Chargers to be in the championship 
game, you can guess what I think of 
Humpries chances to remain uninjured 
the rest of the season.
The Chiefs are down but not out. Mon
tana may not have the magic going right 
now, but the playoffs always seem to be 
a different story. The defense is still 
centered aroundNeil Smith and Derrick 
Thomas, who have been slowed down by 
Chief opponents recently.
John Weber is a senior civil engineer
ing major.
IbCff FzbuuF lrf AuC D[gruD[ zCuvD
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter
As the college football season 
winds down, the debate begins to 
heat up: Whos number one? In 
a season where voters in the As
sociated Press writers poll and 
theUSAToday/CNN coaches poll 
have penalized number one teams 
for not winning impressively 
enough, no one can be sure ex
actly how the voters will vote on 
January 3rd. There are two un
defeated teams and a once-beaten 
staking their pre-bowl claims to 
the title. Unbeaten and current 
consensus number one Nebraska 
will play third-ranked and 10-1 
Miami in the Orange Bowl, while 
number two Penn State puts its 
unblemished record on the line 
against Oregon in the Rose Bowl. 
Will an impressive Penn State 
win in the Rose combined with a 
lackluster Nebraska victory over 
Miami in the Orange Bowl leap
frog the Nittany Lions back over 
the Comhuskers in the final polls? 
Will Miami have a legitimate 
claim to the title if they beat Ne
braska and Penn State has
trouble with Oregon in the Rose 
Bowl? Lets take a look at each of 
the top national contenders and
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art
their chances for the national 
championship, in order of their 
current ranking.
Nebraska: win the Orange
Bowl. A victory over Miami at the 
Hurricanes home stadium will 
be good enough for Tom Osborne 
to bring home his first 
national championship. 
A strong defense and the 
number one-rated rush
ing offense in the country 
have helped to compen
sate for the loss of 
Heisman trophy candi
date and starting quar
terback Tommy Frazier, 
who went out early in the 
season with a recurring 
blood clot in his right leg. 
Frazier dressed for 
Nebraskas season-end
ing victory over Okla
homa and may split time 
with Brook Berringer 
New Years night. Os
borne has suffered sev
eral hearbreaking de
feats at the Orange Bowl, 
including the last-second 
loss to Florida State this 
.o-Editor past January \ and the 
31-30 loss to Miami at the end of 
the 1983 season, both of which 
kept the Huskers from winning 
national championships.
Penn State: beat Oregon in the 
Rose Bowl and hope for a Ne
braska loss. No matter what any
one says, Joe Paternos Nittany 
Lions will not win the national 
championship without help from 
Miami. The Nits actually dropped 
from the number one spot in the 
AP poll after a 49-point win over 
then-16th-ranked Ohio State 
when Nebraska beat Colorado. 
One of the most prolific offenses 
in recent college football history 
is led by quarterback Kerry 
Collins and running back Ki-Jana 
Carter, who will both finish in 
the top five in voting for the 
Heisman Trophy. However, vot
ers question the strength of the 
Lions banged-up defense, which 
has given up over 30 points in two 
of its last three games. Penn State 
must also fight the coaches who 
vote in the USA Today/CNN poll, 
many of whom have stated they 
would like to see Osborne win his
first championship. A Nebraska 
tie and a Penn State win would 
also give Paterno his" first title 
since 1986.
Miami: win in the Orange Bowl 
and pray for an earthquake. The 
least likely of the three national 
championship contenders, the 
Hurricanes likely blew their title 
hopes in one quarter in late Sep
tember. That period saw Wash
ington score 25 points, erasing an
11-point Miami lead on the way 
to a 38-20 victory which also 
ended the Canes national record 
of 58 consecutive home victories. 
The nations number one scoring 
and yardage defense is led by 
junior tackle Warren Sapp, who 
last week won the Lombardi Tro
phy, which is annually awarded 
to the countrys outstanding line
man. Quarterback Frank Costa 
proved he can win a big game 
when Miami spanked Florida 
State 34r-20 in October, but still
makes too many bad decisions. If 
the Hurricanes win, they will still 
need one of the biggest major 
bowl upsets of all time by the 
Ducks in the Rose to have a 
chance, even if Hurricanes play
ers and coaches seem to feel an 
Orange Bowl triumph should give 
them at least a share of the title.
Regardless of who wins the na
tional title, the question of 
whether or not there should be a 
national playoff system has once 
again come to the forefront. As
suming Penn State and Nebraska 
both win their bowl games, one 
(almost certainly Penn State) will 
not win the national crown, de
spite going undefeated.
With two split polls in the last 
four years and the possibility of 
an unbeaten team in a'major con
ference finishing second in the 
polls this season, perhaps it is 
time to seriously consider a play
off system.
z[FFrArfm
Come to Boston 
this summer, 
explore a career in Accounting, 
and take home this souvenir.
ttars a*"*0.oooQouac;SOn 4
SSS ftmanaJ^,
The Bentley College Minority Scholars 
Summer Institute in Accountancy.
Bentley College, a nationally-ranked 
business specialty school, is seeking 
applicants for a unique, 
all-expenses paid 
program. The program 
is designed to provide 
academically 
competitive minority 
students (sophomores 
and juniors), who have 
no prior accounting 
with a solid foundation in accounting 
principles. Upon completion, each 
participant will be given 3 undergraduate 
academic credits and a $2,000 stipend.
This intense learning program runs 
from mid-June through July and involves 
a number of visits to corporations and 
firms, creating opportunities to develop
mentor relationships. Deadline for 
applications is February 1, 1995 and
space is limited. If youre 
interested, we urge you 
to send the coupon or
fiS* \ call 1/800/442-4723
immediately.
Please send me more 
information and an application for
m~i
I
B Bentley Colleges Minority Scholars Summer |
expenence,
I Institute in Accountancy.
I NAME_____
I COLLEGE________________________________________ I
fi ADDRESS ________________________________ I
I CITY______________________STATE____________________ |
I ZIP____________________PHONE________________ I
I Mail to: Bentley Graduate School of Business, Admission I 
U Office,175 Forest St., Waltham, MA 02154-4705.
 Attn: Minority Scholars Summer Institute.
I
gj BENTLEY
WALTHAM, MA 02154-4705
ADOPTION
Loving Caucasian couple 
seeking to adopt infant. Call 1- 
800-585-8014.
HOUSING
Shadyside- Large sunny studio. 
Air-conditioning, dishwasher, 
ceiling fan, garbage-disposal, 
new floors, carpeting. Secure 
building. In great conditionl 
$425/mo. Call 362-8381.
Female medical student seeks to 
share security furnished apart
ment at Webster Hall, Fifth Ave. 
Everything included/reasonable. 
To see, call office at 621 -4132.
Faculty or grad student, 3 
bedroom home, A/C, newly 
remodeled, custom kitchen, 
new laundry and bath, all rooms 
fully furnished, short drive from 
Oakland. References required. 
Call 461-3114
JOBS-
"Spring Break 95**
America's #1 Spring Break 
Company! Cancn, Bahamas, 
Daytona & Panama! 110% 
Lowest Price Guarantee! Orga
nize 15 friends and travel freel 
Earn highest commissions! 
(800) 32-TRAVEL
Teachers needed! The nation's 
leading test preparation com
pany is looking for bright, 
enthusiastic instructors for the 
SAT and MCAT. Great part-time 
job with flexible hours and 
excellent pay ($10/hr undergrad, 
$12/hr grad). Having a car and 
being willing to travel is a plus. 
Serious inquiries only. Please 
send resume and cover letter 
(MCAT applicants also send copy 
of transcript) to: The Princeton 
Review, PO Box 81123, Pitts
burgh, PA 15217.
Wanted!!! Individuals and 
student organizations to pro
mote Spring Break '95. Earn 
substantial money and free trips. 
Call Inter-Campus programs 1- 
800-327-601 3
SERVICES
International Students: DV-1 
Greencard program by U.S. 
immigration. Greencards 
provide permanent resident 
status. Citizens of almost all 
countries are allowed. For info & 
forms: New Era Legal Services, 
20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, 
CA 91306, Tel: (818)-998-4425; 
(818) 772-7168, Monday- 
Sunday 10a.m.-11 p.m.
Architecture/Engineering Stu
dents: Enhance your skills by 
learning AutoCad at the Pitts-
burgh Technical Institute. 
Short-term (6-weeks) evening 
classes start monthly. For 
information, contact Carmen 
Sporio at 471-1011
JTIAVEL
Travel free! Spring Break 95! 
Guaranteed lowest prices. 
Jamaica, Cancn, Bahamas, 
Florida. Book early & save 
$$$! Organize group travel 
free! 1-800-426-7710
Hitch the skies with AirHitch - 
Carrib/Mex $189 R/T. Europe 
$169, Coast to Coast $129. 
Call for a free program 
description at 800-327-2009.
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$5.00 /
wk
21-50 words........$8.00 /
wk
51-100 words......$10.00/
wk
Classifieds must be paid 
in cash or by check before 
the first-scheduled run 
date.
 Due by 5 pm the Thurs
day before publication.
t

---------------------------------------------------

$8,595.*
? M etro Coupe gets an EPA est. M.PG of AA in the city an d 49 on the highway.
:
'? A warranty covers jMLetro from one end to th e next.
- '
And that s with no deductible. . . zero. . . none whatsoever.* ?
? ^MLetro conies wi th first-time buyer assistance."* ?
? Get to know the newest Geo. JVLetro. At your Chevrolet/Geo
? Want to know more? Give us a call. l-SOO- G et-2 - Kno. ?
len nd r.dL
m etro
*58,695 Al.S.R.P. of .Metro X-Si Coupe a sbown. -M..S.R.P includes dealer prep and destination charge. Ta*, license and optional equipment additional.fSee your *Up to 5500 down payment najistancc for qualified first-tinic new car buyers financing With GM-&C. Chevrolet and Geo are registered trademark* and JVletro is a trademark of the GM Corp. 199

---------------------------------------------------

design  literary rag
issue 4
dec ember 5, 1994
U
IIP
III:

---------------------------------------------------

Four issues of Dossier over and done. This semester went really 
fast, so wake up and send me stuff for spring before that 
semester's over too. Good luck with all your end-ofthe-year crap 
and enjoy the winter siesta!fiesta. See you next year. Lauren
Cathexis
words by Jesse Klemmer 
design by Chris Graefe
Salty, In Darkness I Sit Alone and Dead
words by W. R. Berrey 
design by design
Sagittarius: (nov 23 dec 22)
Still running late? You are the children playing hopscotch in our 
playground. You try to jump from one munber to the next on 
one leg backwards and you wonder why youre falling down? 
Can you say aoverextended? Well, the great thing about you is 
that you are full of fire and enthusiasm you think big and I like 
that. If jumping backwards on one foot helps you balance your 
load-good for you. fust every once in a while, when you do fall, 
do me a favor and laugh. Laugh out loud and real hard and if 
anyone hears you and stares just laugh even more.
Coming next semester... 
page numbers!Stay tuned... 
lovely from brockett
Achoo
words by Greg Marcks 
design by Lisa H. Kim
Back Porch Empire
words by Troy Benowitz
La Trutina from Carl Orffs Carmina Burana
Lisa Vitalbo
On the Pulse of Mourning
words by Phil Andrews 
design by Renee Grebe
Marriage
words by Brian O. Bozarth 
design by Judith Park
Style
words by Irli 
design by Ravi Hampole
literary & design ragdossier
Migration
words byAli'Ai-Shakir 
design by sycamore
volume 4 
december 5, 1994

---------------------------------------------------

, WHEN THE FIRE OF TIME BEGINS TO CLOSE AROUND US
[WE'LL BRAVE THE DARKENED CREATURES OF OUR ENVIES,
FRIGHTENED BY THE SWORD OF OUR COMPASSION 
YES, YOU AND 1, WE WILL STORM THE CASTI.E OF OUR TREPIDATION,
AND STEAL THE SILVER CHALICE OF OUR AFFECTIONS.
_WE'LL LIGHT THE FIRE THAT BURNS OUR INTENTION 
[AND SPARK THE CONFLAGRATION OF OUR LOVE.
WE'LL SUBDUE THE DRAGON OF OUR DESTITUTION 
[AND KEEP HIM AS OUR PET VICISSITUDE.
WE'LL DIVE BELOW THE OCEAN OF OUR UNCONSCIOUSNESS,
1141!v /w4Pui I3P /!,w! I,i4/ PwVI.3P vPw4o/x
"WE'LL SAIL TO THE ISLANDS OF OUR ISOLATION,
* AND FLOAT BOTTLED MESSAGES TO THE MAINLAND OF OUR FRIENDSHIP. 
.WE'LL WALK ALONG THE SHORES OF OUR CONTENTMENT,
AND GATHER LITTLE SEAS HELLS OF OUR SMILES,
^ WE'LL CRY WHEN WE HAVE FOUND WHAT WE WERE AFTER,
AND TIME WILL ONLY WAIT FOR ONE LAST BREATH-
WELL PLANT THE SEED OF OUR APOTHEOSIS,
AND SPEND FOREVER AFTER AS FLOWERS OF OUR HEARTS.

---------------------------------------------------

1 roll in cool pastures or pungent and dare 1 say salty amorphous shapes 
twisting and winding round me in abysmal aspect.
The briny Ellusion depths of my soul are plumbed but I am alone...and dead. I 
see the flowers of salinity as my salty tears wreak Eccliseastese wrath.
Salty and in sanguine repose I ponder how alone and without life I sit and how 
salubrious my tears run upon unfrettered streams of limpid blue.
Twirling alone (but still declaritively dead) in blackest space, darkness 
permeating my innermost thoughts I am one... with loneness... and death... and
The vibrato of angelic cords sings dissonant in a choir 
hither and yon through mediocrity and saline youth.
My eyes sting with the salty mendacity of the sanitizing corpo 
feel alone and gamy in a crowd of carrion none deader than I
and bile and glue and pnumbraimmersi
I am perished and in tenebrous ni. 
gained her facade.
in darkness I sit
W.R.Berrey (poet,

---------------------------------------------------

e
 -o  "3
u
(
^o sv
For your Pal?
If you believe in him, 
Let him speak 
For himself and
Greg Marcks

---------------------------------------------------

Back Porch Empire
by Troy Benowitz
My chubby hands position pre-cut balsa, 
cramped over my worktable on the back porch,
I push pieces together to form a fuselage, 
scrambling for Jet glue to dribble over the frame 
as Mom makes chicken soup inside, throwing whole carrots 
into a flowery white pot with a broken handle.
I study plans for the wings, the rudder,
the stabilizer, as glue dries, sharpen X-Acto blades,
look for ships through the torn screen,
admire the river, brisk late autumn winds forcing
the black water to make foam whitecaps at its surface.
I lay wax paper over the plans, pinning balsa strips 
to them, gluing balsa together as two wings materialize,
I give them depth, me two hands never enough,
always too much balsa, too much to glue, too much to cut.
I imagine the plane when its completed; blue tissue 
paper covering the balsa frame, rubber band engine 
and sleek plastic red propeller. I imagine it soaring, 
out over the river, over the shipping lane, more free 
than the ships that pass underneath it ever will be.
,s
The new house, up the river, as my grandmother put it,
miles from her pork pies and loud mouth,
rests on the shore of the St. Lawrence,
the only year-round home in a sea of camps,
their happy blue and pink pastel particle board walls
a contrast to our brown and beige abode.
I had insisted on colonizing the screened-in 
back porch for my ever-
expanding balsa model empire, begging my grandmother 
to donate her big cellar table only used annually 
for wrapping Christmas presents.
I set up my own private hobby shop, 
arranging my equipment perfectly, positioning 
everything within easy reach.
I even made a sign, reading, Balsa Haus, 
and wired it to the screen.
Mom supported my habit, buying
me endless glues, X-Acto blades, brushes,
paints, and balsa stick-and-tissue model airplane kits.
It was everything Id ever need.
,
I finish the wings and gently sand away the excess glue, 
smoothing the surface enough to apply the tissue paper. 
Its getting cold, but I remain on my back porch 
in stocking feet and short-sleeved shirt 
determined to coat the wings in tissue paper 
before I indulge in chicken soup.
I apply the thick, clear adhesive to the balsa frame 
with a little brush. I cut out the tissue, using the pattern 
in the instructions. Carefully, I start to press the tissue 
onto the wings, cautious of any bubbles or gaps 
I may accidentally cause.

---------------------------------------------------

I glance inside through the storm 
window, Mom looks up and flashes a smile, 
causing me to look down at my wings, 
oddly embarrassed at feeling so close 
to her and so happy.
IV
I break for chicken soup, telling Mom 
the latest developments on the back porch.
She listens intently, pretending toe interested. 
Her mind is on other matters.
I can see it in her eyes, all spacey and glossy.
Her soup, as ever, is wonderful, despite 
the yogurt, wheat germ, and powdered vitamins 
and minerals she has undoubtedly added to it, 
as she does to all her cooking.
\
It is dusk when I prepare to coat the fuselage in tissue, 
being careful around its curvy bottom.
I touch the tissue to the coated balsa, turning the fuselage 
as fast as my hands can follow, pressing down 
only after all is positioned.
I can never do this part fast enough, my fat hands 
always working, somehow, in slow motion, my mind 
always working at double speed, tissue gets caught up 
inside, bubbles form, and it starts to rip.
I push in on the balsa, gently at first, then, upon 
seeing the blue tissue fumbling inside the balsa frame, 
harder, feeling balsa crunch between my fingers, 
feeling the meticulously-glued pieces snap in my hands.
I squeeze the mess in my hands, glue, balsa, and tissue 
wadding up into a ball of disaster before my eyes.
I eye the wings, dried, completed, but before I can resist, 
my fat fists come down on them, crushing them, 
destroying any chance they would have at being airborne, 
any chance they would have at sailing over the Lawrence.
\,
I watch Family Ties later that night with my Mom. 
Mallory's having boy troubles.
Shes asked two boys to the same dance 
and the choice is now driving her insane.
Shes part of a world she cant control, 
a world alien to my little back porch empire, 
where, on a whim, I can smash everything 
and begin fresh in the morning, 
a world which really cant refuse me, 
for I am its emperor.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

On the Pulse of Mourning
by Phil Andrews
A Rock, A River, A Tree 
Under such things I buried thee.
Giants who left glittering tokens, prizes 
To be found and treasured; Gold with the Midas 
Touch, all covered :by the consuming gloom, 
Lost in an aged, dusty tomb
Cry out you may,
But we sealed you tight today 
Stamped the soil, to pack you down 
Stole your light, destroyed your crown.
Meter, Hhyme, Vocabulary,
ilitist tools, suppressor of the masses.
Deadly bones, maintainer of the classes.
 : 
Th Pulse of Mourning slips away,
To Death we pray on this new day.
Homer sat on Ithaca's boulders. :
lip 
lilil
ppRrRpL_ B
\ I
Shaw stood on Shakespeare's shoulders,
But now we are taller than any of them,
We've buried deep all of those DWM. 
Byron, Keats, Blake and Shelley, 
Have Gray write your Elegy !
As Mourning's pulse shatters with silence 
The Last Rite Priest looks to the supplicant 
And says simply
Very sirgcly- _eu buafP
Good Night

---------------------------------------------------

OF INNOCENCE 
COUPLED
BY DARKEST PERVERSITY
THE MARRIAGE
OUR PUPILS THAT 
BREATHE WITH 
EVERY SCREAM,
EVERY CRY,
EVERY ACCENT OF TORTURE ...
THAT IS YOURS AND MINE ...
EYES
LOCKED
UPON EYES 
THAT FLICKER BENEATH THE CANDLES

---------------------------------------------------

When we walk down the street
And you
But the Platinum Blond Hair 
Just did not go
with my Slanted Eyes
vet V nne ,t burps.When we TalK 
in that respect,
Than any wall can

---------------------------------------------------

For lack of a tree, 
a red and blue wood-pecker 
pecked my kitchen window 
to pieces.
Ali Al-Shakirmi*
The fragments of glass
performed a cannon-ball
dive for a plate of
steak and mashed potatoes.
Fearing for itself,
the plate jumped
off the table
and ran screaming.
Upon hitting the ground, 
the steak groaned, 
and died again.
The mashed potatoes went 
flop on the linoleum.
Disgusted with this slop, 
the linoleum slithered 
out of the kitchen.
After tugging at the seams 
of my flesh, I covered 
the kitchen floor with my skin. 
Embarrassed at being seen, 
my vital organs left 
for Toledo.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

 IIII,I&eInsi de
uwhf *)B ,FFwf /NIbf I[Cg[DB W[CDfyrf MfuD jDrlfCFrg]p orggFkwCybp ofDDF]l[Dr[? SfzfhkfC /))4
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Editor-in-Chiefthe student
The year 2000 is only five years and 26 days away; however, 
the year inspires expectations of great change in people. Given 
thatprediliction, pundits around the globe try to 
be different at the turn of the century. I won t take *at^dfor 
two reasons: I think its stupid to try Mid predict what will be 
what and, if I am willing to wait those five years and 26 days I 
will know the answer without having had to.waste: anythoug^ 
on the matter. I do, however, have hope  hope that the CM 
student will be a different creature.
The phrase, Im so tired, or I have so much work to do, is the 
stock reply to the often-asked stock question, How are you 
doing?
Ererybodys tired anl has a lot of work to do. Is it possible for 
us to talk about anything else? The second runner up it.conver
sation amongst students is, I hate the weather in ^sbur^.
That conversational ploy is as stimulating as watclnng hair 
grow We are college students. There has to be something more 
exciting going on than our sleep/work habits or the weather. And 
if there isnt, something has to be done.
Students of the future need to learn to do one *ing-lie.Not 
lyinginthe sense that students say, I'm not bred, or, Hove the
weather in Pittsburgh. Imeanlyingin the sense that they make
up something interesting about their lives. It may be a 
some, but it would really make college a more wardmgexp* 
rience. Students have the built in capacity to he  just listen to
the things they tell their professors Hifff,rent
Students of the year 2000 could have a totally different 
memory of school than we do.
Mike, how are you doing? asks Sally. p ,lv annA
Mike looks over his shoulder and then answers, Really good, 
thanks. The feds didnt catch me.
What happened?
Mike tells her, Well remember 
South America? I had a little deal set up wiui uu* 
some firearms All I had to do was fly them down there and he
you want to go get some coffee?
Sally says, Sure.
Thats it, the story is already gett 
if he takes the conversation any further, he will nave  
how tired he is from staying up all night fighting cops .
Actually what Mike did the night before was stay up trying to 
finfsfes the net with pictures of naked people so he couU 
download them. That would be aboring and slightly embarassing 
tale to relate to Sally. Now Sally is going to have co 
and mavbe theyll embark on a lovely little affair.
The point is, if students want their college experience to l- 
m^nrable they have to take an active part in creating, or 
Sng the experience. I can only hope that students of 
Stoe mil know this and make this campus an interest-
ing place to be. ___________  -
uwC FgwmfDgF 
aCfmrzg gbf AwgwCf 
uA WMj
ByABBYSCHIPp
fartcm Forum Editor
Gentle readers * SOC/a///fe
smell in the Wea!n Hall this quest>n: Whats that  article. What r m 7 Andrew cluster? at Weird
>rces,,o t J Sti0n bu* also a .
in t0 Say isin the year 2000?
Of the word intim 3 f UncertaintyWill th ruptiy casting 
techno,ogytenfcTilr1- to anOgf^FFrr3^
m <mumTartan Assistant Features ^
= fnr the first time in two years,I pass through the campusfoH wftlkway and a
which now consists of a Ponnected by dark over^
5 when I firstcame to this sch
, the fthe weath-
By CHAD RAY McDANXEL aCademjCS
Tartan Systems Manager
beep beep beep. Your alarm iscUmboutofyourbedasyo^ro^atost^^^^^.
you from theirs. You turn 0 y desk You brush your
robe as you take slow steps y ^ ^ slip the headset
hair and try to rub yo ^resa the start button,
on, adjust the microphon , P ^ pear;
The screen buzzes and the  ^youwontbeluckily yourprofessorhasn hgr fece app
1, Carnegie M.lta h*> d 
dynamic of a lecture cou actually walk across
professor. You -"^JfffiyHaliaa0.
campus just so you can fal P taught through
All of the big lecture cla^3 fesaor>s office to the dorm
video-conferencing fiom one/headphone and sit in
rooms; just put on a microphcharts, 
front of the display as y ^iedbycaptionssoyoucan 
pictures, and video isi accomp English for
understand them nQW
two years. Slacking is ^ name instanta-
your professor can match yo g bboard or
neously, so no >tmakeyou interact
playing dumb. Of course, in y lecture in the
ask your question, so be aderoany realiza-The administrations atCMUha
tions. One of which was *at when aup^. ^ ^
student body either ha in onyy one
aidnt make gm to have^ |g| ^ ^ 
department. That y ^ ACADEMICS, page L5

---------------------------------------------------

kInsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggf
WuuUrDy ywCw FfClfF wa bug CfzrafF AuC vrDgfC
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 /9. crrpon npnnpr r*Virmrorl nnwrlar n-nrl/nr A/Tayipsti rViili nnwrlpr d TTiq nlivp nil mpnmhpr tnmfltn nnion mnolir..
Old Man Donner
by Jason Roth
Clip, save, and laminate this one, folks: 
Were ending the semester with a bang. 
Ive made these recipes over the last two 
nights, and I havent eaten so well since 
Mother fired the cook. Well start off 
with a classic:
Chili
2 lbs ground beef
big can o kidney beans (32 oz)
2 big cans o whole tomatoes
1 onion, chopped
1/2 green pepper, chopped
1 can tomato paste
2 Tbs. chili powder
oregano, garlic, pepper
This ones courtesy of fellow architect 
Rick Sabeh, and its a winner. Brown 
the beef, drain well, add the pepper and 
onion, fry it up a bit. While 
this goes on, chop up the 
tomatoes (theyre real 
mushy, so this is easy; but 
watch out, they spit), then 
add them, the paste (one of 
those little cans), and some 
salt & pepper. After 15 min- 
utes or so, add everything else, and sim
mer the hell out of it.
Now, you can mince the garlic or use 
powder (guess which way Im biased), 
and put it in, in addition to freshly 
ground black pepper, a red and black 
pepper mix. Add the tomato liquid, but 
not the bean liquid. Finally, the big 
issue in chili: spice.
This recipe is very mild; I used twice 
as much chili powder, half a jalapeno, 
and Im a wuss. If you want any real bite 
at all, use at least 6 tablespoons of chili
powder and/or Mexican chili powder. 
Finally, a word of warning: this is a big 
recipe  at least two and half quarts of 
chili. Either invite a lot of friends, or 
make certain youve a big storage bowl.
Heres something I just discovered: 
Jiffy mix in an 8" pie pan in a toastRoven 
set a little high and preheated.
... this here is a real meal from the 
days when a face shiny with oil was 
a sign of health and wealth.
The outside gets pretty dark (let it), 
while the inside remains moist and amaz
ing.
From a New World classic to a Medi
terranean tradition,
Greek Roast Chicken with 
Potatoes, or 
Kotopolou Fournou
Roasting chicken (2-3 lb)
2 lb potato, skinned and wedged 
1 large lemon 
oregano, pepper
4 Tbs. olive oil 
1/2 cup hot water 
21/2 sticks butter
Yes, you read that last ingredient right; 
stay away fat-weenies, this here is a real 
meal, from the days when a face shiny 
with oil was a sign of health and wealth.
Preheat the oven to 
425 and put the 
chicken breast down 
(upside down) in a 
large pan.
Add the potatoes,
______ sprinkle a fair amount
of spices about, pour 
on the oil, squeeze the lemon, and put 
the butter all over the place. Lastly, add 
the water in a corner of the pan and put 
it in the oven for 30 min. After this time, 
flip the bird, baste, and add a lot more 
spice (thyme is also appropriate). Go for 
about another hour, basting at least 
once, and its ready. This is so good its 
amazing  the potatoes roast in all 
these juices, acquiring great flavor. The 
contrast between butter and lemon is 
out of this world. Yow.
A good complement is a salad with
cucumber, tomato, onion, mushroj 
and feta (also mozzarella); try mal^ 
your own vinaigrette, which is simply! 
lot of oil, some vinegar (either kj^ 
although red wines better), and van'o^ 
appropriate spices, all mixed up. ^ 
artichoke (boil or steam until tender) 
would go nicely, especially dipping^ 
leaves in the lemon butter.
Thats it for now. I guess Ill be ba 
next semester, if only because Ivea{ 
least another two good recipes to p; 
on. Happy holidays, dont get yourselve; 
killed, and, for Gods sake, get 
sleep.
Jason Roth expresses great concern 
over what is going to happen to all /s 
loyal readers during his sabbatical, fa 
was thinking ofproviding his home nun\. 
ber for emergency situations; howe% 
this could prove highly impractical q.$ 
recipes are just not the sort of thing that 
can be rushed. For now, one word mu 
have to suffice to get all ofthefollowersof 
Old Man Donner through the winter: 
leftovers, baby, leftovers are the wayt0 
go. Don't worry though, hell be back next 
semester with a vengeance.
nurm[]p FrkrDy ulfCFb[muv zuwhDrFg'F krCgbm[]
ting diluted presents. Ifl wanted some- covered the whimsical ways of auto- 
thing really cool I had to ask for Birth- matic mechanical dishwashers. She 
day and Christmas gift! Really cool in- started to use one four years after dis- 
this case meaning anything over $60. Of covering them.
course, my little brother has a roomful of This Thanksgiving was kind of special
remote-control cars. I have three draw- since my older brother came home from
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
Well, my birthday was a couple Mon
days ago. I turned an ominous 20. Now 
that Im a full-fledged member of Gen
eration X, the many people profiting 
soured also.
My birthday never really created a 
furor at my house mostly because of the 
fact that my 8-soon-to-be-9 year-old 
brother has his birthday eight days away 
from mine, and Christmas is less than a 
month away, so I always ended up get
ers full of sweaters.
My birthday is also a 
subtle reminder for my 
mom to get all the 
Thanksgiving stuff in 
order.
Ah, Thanksgiving  
what pleasant memories
 like when my mom 
grabbed me and my 
older brother by the 
hand and told us she 
wanted us to volunteer 
to do dishes.
Considering that dishes made up about 
40.3 percent of my and my brothers 
home life, at the time we were more than 
reluctant to do so.
Its a good thing my mom finally dis-
Korea after a full year there.
new. Guys with leaf blowers were every
where. There was a freshly fertilized 
patch of grass on the Mall. Also there 
was the giant mosh pit in the middle of 
campus.
Even the CFA parking lot has changed
 its no longer a pedestrain thru way.
My birthday never really created a furor at my house 
... because of the fact that my 8-soon-to-be-9 year old 
brother has his birthday eight days from mine, and 
Christmas is less than a month away so I always end 
up getting diluted" presents.
Immediately after doing so he bought 
a Chevy Beretta and stayed out until 3 
am. Well, it seems that nothing has 
changed that much....
Then, when I came back to school, 
campus almost seemed kind of, well,
So if you see some pedestrains in that 
parking lot, you tell em to get the hell 
out of there.
Pedestrains are simply not allowed in 
there.
What also strikes me as odd is the
recent weather.
Im accustomed to white-grounded 
birthdays and Thanksgivings, but this 
was one of the weirdest Novembers on 
record.
Despite our strange climate hereii 
Western Pennsylvania, we can almost 
always look forward to snow by my birth
day. We had a light dusting the 23rd; but 
thats it.
We did have a lot of wind, though..
So remember, keep those pedestrains 
out of the CFA parking lot. And if you 
want to, pray for snow, good Christmas 
presents, peace on Earth, good gr 
on finals, and maybe sanity in general. 
If youre Generation X, pray for a 
job and all that.
Despite what depression has in. 
for him, Tom Harper, sophomore phys
ics/CS major and English minor, "will 
do his darndest to survive this semester. 
And finally, some gratuitous shots of 
penises for the censors ....
xrzf aCuyC[h bfaF z[CffCF
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffwriter
With the first semester quickly 
coming to a close, preparations 
for this years Slice of Life confer
ence are well underway. The con
ference, sponsored by the Office 
of Alumni Relations in partner
ship with the Career Center, will 
take place on Saturday, Febru
ary 18,1995 from 10am to 4 pm at 
the Holiday Inn in Oakland.
Slice of Life, which is now in its 
sixth year, offers a chance for 
students to hear from alumni 
what life following Carnegie 
Mellon is like. Just a few of the 
topics featured in this years Slice 
of Life are: A Five-Step Process to 
Career-Decision Making, What 
Management Expects of Your
First Year on the Job, Money 
Management: Investing for Be
ginners, Issues for Working 
Women;Yes,You Can (Assert
iveness), and Dual Career 
Couples.
In addition to the various infor
mation sessions, the keynote 
speaker will be 1966 College of 
Fine Arts graduate, Iris Dart. 
Dart is author of Beaches, and 
just finished writing a new novel 
titled Show Business Kills.
Slice of Life offers programs 
presented by a diverse group of 
alumni, which will appeal to the 
diversity of current students. 
While in the past Slice of Life was 
only open to seniors and juniors, 
this years program is open to the 
entire student body. The confer
ence is completely free to attend,
with a complementary shuttle to 
get you to the Holiday Inn, plus 
complimentary breakfast and 
lunch.
Here are a few of the comments 
garnered from students who at
tended last years Slice of Life: 
Probably the best thing Carnegie 
Mellon has done forits students, 
This program truly surpassed 
my expectations, The present
ers are amazing  they were all 
dynamic and realistic speakers, 
and This is a great program, and 
a valuable way to get in contact 
with alumni.
Registration for this years Slice 
of Life will take place in front of 
Doherty Hall the week of Janu
ary 16,1995. For more informa
tion contact Shelley Brozenick at 
268-2060.
Write-a-thon tries to aid prisoners
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
On Thursday, December 8, 
three Amnesty International 
groups from the Pittsburgh area 
will sponsor the Amnesty Write- 
A-Thon for Ten Prisoners of Con
science. The organizations spon
soring the write-a thon are Pitts
burgh Group 39, South ---------
Hills Group 345 and 
Sewickley Group 524.
The Write-a-Thon will 
take place atthe Calvary 
Episcopal Church on 
Shady Street and Wal
nut Street in Shadyside 
from 6:30-9:30 pm. Any
one interested in human ______
rights is welcome to par-  
ticipate in the annual 
event.
The Write-a-Thon was started 
nine years ago to create an aware
ness of worldwide human rights 
in the Pittsburgh area. We want 
to acquaint a larger number of 
people with the observance of 
human rights, said Geraldine 
Malmberg, a coordinator of the 
event. Malmberg feels there is a
need to create this awareness 
because human rights violations 
are escalating rapidly.
This year the letters will focus 
on the liberation of prisoners from 
China-Tibet, USA, Indonesia, 
Rwanda, Turkey, Pakistan, 
Burundi, and China. Each pris
oner will have a brief history of 
his or her case which will be placed
"The Write-a-Thon ... will 
create an observance of 
human rights in the Pitts
burgh area.
 Geraldine Malmberg
on one of ten tables in the church. 
The Freedom Writers, the Write- 
a-Thon participants, will have the 
opportunity to read each of the 
prisoners accounts prior to writ
ing their letters. Writers will then 
write a letter on behalf of the 
prisoner that they choose.
Based on the success of the past 
events, Malmberg feels the up
and coming Write-a-Thon will be 
beneficial to Amnesty Interna
tional as well as the community. 
She said, The Write-a-Thon will 
not only work towards freeing 
prisoners of conscience and end
ing torture, but it will create an 
observance of human rights and 
human rights issues in the Pitts
burgh area.
Malmberg also hopes-to 
increase the membership 
of local Amnesty Inter
national organizations. 
Over 2,000 people are af
filiated with Amnesty In
ternational groups, and 
200 people are active in 
community group work 
to stop human rights vio- 
BB lations.
Malmberg is also 
pleased with the growing num
ber of Amnesty International or
ganizations on local high school 
and college campuses.
If you have questions pertain
ing to the Write-a-Thon, or if you 
are interested in joining Amnesty 
International, call Geraldine 
Malmberg or Bill Joyce at 731- 
3608.
No kidding. More and more students 
are telling us how much they enjoy math 
after they start using Malhemalica.
Whether you're in engineering, 
computer science, physics, economics, or any 
other technical major, you know how critical 
your knowledge of math is to your future.
Now students around 
the world are discov
ering that Malhemal
ica makes learning 
math really exciting.
Mathematica
The Essential Tool for Math and Science Learning
Students use Malhemalica to 
understand topics better and fin
ish homework faster. Malhmal
ica speeds you through tedious 
calculations, and is a great tool 
for making sure your answers 
are accurate. It's ideal u(y
for any course where 
the assignments involve 
algebra, calculus, linear algebra, 01 
differential equations, statistics ... and the 
list goes on.
Malhemalica isn't just fastit's easy. 
You'll start getting answers the moment you 
type your first equation on the screen. And 
Malhemalica: The Student Book is included to 
help you quickly through the basics of the
program and beyond. It shows you 
how to use Malhemalica to solve equa
tions, make spectacular 2D and 3D 
plots and graphs, and write reports 
tpAY that will impress even your
toughest professors.
Students everywhere 
approach math with a 
whole new attitude when 
they use Malhemalica. So 
treat yourself to this Holi
day Special and ring in the 
new year with Malhemalica 
on your desktop.
f
For more information or to order from home, call 
1-800-441-MATH {6284}
Wolfram Research
Muhetnua la Students a available to all currently enrolled lull-iurc students. Student identifeation lequied l.'jthmita ta Studenti is a lull-function version ol Mitheauxj and is available on Macintosh and Mtnnolt Wndcrws systems Nurore coprocessor surxxi not eluded Ulthlmt ' support not included cn the Windows vet son Audemc discounts aie available for dessinai venais ol Atil/enulGJ on all personal computis. wtkstat*ns. and supercomputers lab and site programs am also available

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfkw
Lewis" Hair Salon
rim[hFuD [v[CmF AuzwF [ggfDgruD uD WMj vCrgfCF
Ln0y KATHY WRIGHT
u 1p|Tartan Diversions Editor
I y!cp jri; Drum roll, please! And the winner 
t'/ciis- On the last day of each spring se- 
,o jester, Carnegie Mellon holds its own 
I ^version of the Oscars, complete with all 
If j ofthe excitement, pinache, and elegance: 
The Adamson Writing Awards. 
bL The Adamson Writing Awards are 
sponsored by the English Department, 
|c ,B(which leads most students to believe 
I? , /ithatthe awards are open only to English 
1/ Ttrfitudents. I would like the campus com
munity to see the awards for the whole 
[ community, for recognizing the... excel- 
fr ^'Jence of what is being done throughout 
b \ the community, said Richard Young, 
\ Thomas S. Baker Professor of English 
[i iuand Rhetoric. In 1981 and 1982, as the 
I yohead of the English Department, Young 
fe, \worked with Clarence Adamson to cre- 
| ,i\fate these awards to acknowledge 
p < ^achievement in writing across the entire 
l p-campus.
f' Adamsons wife, Pauline, diedin 1980. 
f /After this loss, Adamson wanted to cre- 
I .-.ate a permanent memorial for her, so he 
[ looked towards Carnegie Mellon, his 
alma mater (actually he graduated from 
fche Carnegie Institute of Technology in 
lfl915 with a degree in mechanical engi
neering). Pauline was a mathematician, 
but she read constantly; Adamson 
panted to acknowledge this life-long pas- 
ujsion-0  Adamson was not sure how much 
money to give or what should be done 
; cjtfith it. I made a dozen proposals, said 
js ;n(Young. We finally settled on the 
H u-Adamson Wing, which was a very ex
pensive proposition. Adamson also 
wanted to do something special to af
firm the value of all different kinds of 
Bf vriting, said Young. In addition to the 
Adamson Wing and the Adamson 
w JU.wards, Adamson made one other dona- 
! ,bjjion to the English Department in the 
pR-iform of a scholarship to help selected 
^undergraduates finish their degrees in 
four years (as opposed to the eight years
it took his wife).
Each year the Adamson Awards are 
held in the Adamson Wing in Baker 
Hall, but the Adamson Auditorium is 
no longer large enough, said Young. 
Students fill the aisles and line up 
against the walls, but, the issue remains 
the same  the majority of these stu
dents are English majors.
We dont want it to be perceived as an 
English Department thing, said Jim 
Daniels, assistant professor of English. 
Were hoping the awards might be an 
impetus for other students to improve 
writing and consider submit
ting.... The categories are pretty 
open.... We can accept most writ
ing done on campus. The only 
restriction: you have to be an 
enrolled student at Carnegie 
Mellon.
English students understand 
that these awards are open to all 
students, but many are quite 
possessive of them. Speaking 
from experience, it is certainly 
true that creative writers would 
feel animosity towards a non- 
English major winning an award 
that is traditionally in their 
field, said Micki Kochanskyj 
(English 94), who walked away 
with two first-place awards last 
year for the first time in the 13 
year history of the Adamson 
Awards. To say they consider 
the awards exclusively theirs is 
an understatement.
Sharon Dilworth, assistant 
professor of English, sees the 
awards as a good learning experience for 
students, especially English students. 
... [particularly] for creative writers, 
[the Adamson Awards are] a good lesson 
about how the world of writing works 
because, as a writer, youre always en
tering contests, ... grants,... and submit
ting works.... This is probably the first 
contest students will enter. Every stu
dent who enters cannot win, and its 
good practice to compete with students
outside of the English department be
cause that is the real world.
The outcome of the Adamsons can be 
extremely disappointing, said Broc 
Yusef Hamlin, a senior English major 
who won an award in Magazine Writing 
last year. Last year, a bunch of seniors 
left the room with nothing but crushed 
hopes, a heartbreak, and fake smiles. 
Think about it. Youre a senior. Youre 
smug and wise in class, and youre going 
to be a famous writer someday. Blah 
blah blah. Then along comes some non- 
English major or a talented  yet un
Clarence Adamson donated over a million dollars to the 
University. IVIost of this money was given to the English 
Department in memory of his wife, Pauline, pictured above.
knownsophomore or junior, and they 
blow your stuff away. Theres no excuse 
because the judges dont know whos an 
English major, whos a senior, or whos 
Smelvin from Melvin. They just pick 
who they think is the shit.
Daniels thinks that the Adamson 
Awards are especially a good learning 
experience for those students who dont
keep going and to keep writing.
The one issue everybody agrees on is 
the ceremony itself. The presentation of 
awards always takes place on the last 
day of class in the spring semester. The 
air is filled with building nervousness 
and excitement until that day, for both 
the people who entered and the English 
department as a whole  and hopefully 
the entire campus community. Each year 
there are different judges for the catego
ries, usually writers who have previ
ously read at Carnegie Mellon, so it is 
very difficult to predict the winners even 
if someone is expected to win. 
Theres always an air of mys
tery surrounding the awards. 
The Adamsons are also more 
than just an award ceremony. 
Each year a distinguished 
American writer comes to 
speak and announce the 
awards, including such greats 
as Raymond Carver, Jamaica 
Kincaid, James Tate, and 
Carolyn Kizer. This year, poet 
Robert Creeley will be the 
guest.
Its really exciting for me 
as a faculty member to see the 
awards, said Daniels. I usu
ally dont know who has won.... 
I get goose bumps when I see 
[the winning students] get up 
and walk down that aisle. 
[The Adamsons] are like 
the Oscars: people dress up, 
certain people are considered 
leading nominees, [and] there 
is a star-quality atmosphere 
given the status of the guest speaker, 
said Kochanskyj.
Yusef also said, Theyre like the Os
cars of the English department with the 
pre-Adamson hype to match. What story 
did you submit? Who do you think is 
going to win poetry? How did he win, 
that story sucked! Its an intense scene 
for us normally laid-back English ma-
win.... They have to be able to deal with jors. 
rejection, he said. Its a challenge to If the ceremony isnt enough, cash
prize awards lure many students to en
ter.
The majority of prizes are honorable 
mentions, but there are cash awards.... 
[Submission] is financial gain, said 
Dilworth. First place winners walk away 
with a $300 check, with smaller cash 
awards for second and third places.
After each ceremony there are also 
several parties, the first of which is held 
in the lobby ofthe Adamson Wing (where 
it is rumored that every year one of the 
paintings hung on the wall is bumped so 
security has to come over to check things 
out). Marty Riker, a senior English ma
jor, said, I always tell people I only 
enter for the money, which is an abso
lute lie, and I only say it because I know 
no one will believe me anyway. I also 
make a resolution to not go to the cer
emony every year, he says, and then 
decide at the last minute it would be a 
waste to miss all that free wine andbeer. 
Show me a brass ring, and I turn into a 
giddy school girl. Its quite embarrass
ing.
On a more serious note, Riker said, I 
think were fortunate to have something 
like the Adamsons to look forward to ... 
[but] I dont necessarily like the idea of 
writing as competition, though I must 
say Ive mellowed quite a bit on that 
front. I realize in my own work that its 
not so much writing as competition, but 
rather writing and competition, mean
ing the existence of a contest doesnt 
affect the content of my work, only the 
time by which it must be completed.
As a reminder, all work has to be 
submitted to the Adamson Awards Com
mittee by the first day after spring break: 
March 27. Everyone is encouraged to 
submit; there are categories rangingfrom 
creative writing and poetry to technical 
and magazine writing.
There are several categories for both 
graduate students and undergraduates, 
regardless of school, department, or 
major. For more information and sub
mission guidelines, contact the English 
Department.
We need your help in a stand by me case.
Our law firm represents a college student who was seriously and permanently 
injured on or near the railroad tracks that run through Panther Hollow, near the CMU 
and Pitt campuses. Our client had been walking along these tracks, which run from 
downtown Pittsburgh to the CMU campus, when the accident occurred. The accident 
happened on the bridge that crosses over Boundary Street, in Greenfield (near BIG JIM'S 
RESTAURANT).
The railroad denies knowledge of people walking on or near the tracks. If you have 
ever walked along or used these tracks in such a fashion, or if you are aware of people walking 
on or near these tracks, please call George at 281-1970. Thank you.
HEY CMU STUDENTS!
Are you looking for some 
LIVE ACTION this winter?
SUadyside 
Tanning * Nails ? Waxing * Facials 
We Carry
Vveda ? Paul Mitchell ? Matrix * N,exxus 
Sebastian ? Tri ? Redkin * Golriweil 
Image * SukeshaOPi * Skincare * Makeup 
Open Seven Days a Week and Most Evenings 
813 South Aiken 
6X2 - 4063 
Save $4.00 on Haircuts 
9 am to 2 pm Monday thru Friday 
(with select stylist)
SCHENLEY PARK 
ICE SKATING RINK
Please mail request for more information to Marketing Department, PAT, 2235 Beaver Ave., Pgh., PA 15233
 gives you some exercise
 is cheap
 is a great group activity
 has a pumping sound system!
You can also rent the ice for parties 
and hockey. There is a party room available for 
fraternity and sorority functions  whatever! 
It's cheap and within walking distance of Skibo.
(For more information, call 422-6547)
WTGGs:s ,BSB e,:nI
FROM 9:30 to I 1:30 EVERY TUESDAY NIGHT
and also l:30-3:30pm EVERY WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON
nT IT :sI insiS ,e WTGGs:s^
ISIransit
The Best Wav All Around!
The special rate Is $ 1.50 for admission 
and $ 1.50 for skate rental.
TOTAL OUTLAY: $3.00
CALL 422-6547 FOR A COMPLETE 
LISTING OF RINK HOURS.WHERE DID YOU SEE IHIS AO?
Wherever you need to qo in Allegheny Counly, our buses,  and Monongahela Incline 
can get you there! For the routes and times best for you, pick up a free System Map and 
schedules at our Downtown Service Center at 534 Smithfield Street, or call: 442-2000.

---------------------------------------------------

kfnsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggf
CfFbhfD [mjwFg gu zufyf rAf W[CDfyrf MfuD Fg]f
By SUZANNE PADDOCK
fTartan Junior Staffwriter
oiWith finals creeping up and winter 
break just a few weeks away, the end of 
the semester is near. Another fall se
mester is drawing to a close and stu
dents are looking forward to the novelty 
pf the spring semester.
All this seems routine to upperclass
men but what about the freshmen? They 
have been here almost an entire semes
ter; has college life been what they ex
pected?
First year music major Carrie Walsh 
>vas interviewed for The Tartan in the 
beginning of the semester [Freshman, 
senior, and graduate student discuss 
different approaches to semester, Sep
tember 6] regarding her expectations for 
jthe coming semester. Now that she has 
been fully integrated into college life, 
she was asked some of the same ques
tions again to see if her perceptions have 
changed.
In the previous article Walsh men
tioned that she expected to work hard 
... meet new people, and make a lot of 
new friends. One of the ways Walsh 
met new friends was through the Greek 
system. I joined a sorority because of 
the male to female ratio, in order to meet 
good female friends. Walsh feels her
adjustments to CMU have been posi
tive; shes pretty satisfied with her life 
here.
Dave Schimmel, a first year graphic 
design and business major, is also in
volved in the Greek system. Schimmel 
joined his fraternity because he feels 
CMU lacks a substantial social atmo
sphere. His fraternity provides him with 
an outlet for stress.
First year creative writing major Dani 
Barnard believes CMU turned out bet
ter than her expectations. Barnard
wasnt enthusiastic _________________
about moving to 
Pittsburgh. She 
now enjoys the so
cial life Pittsburgh 
offers.
One of the unique 
characteristics of
CMU is the number ---------------------------
of students who
come here from foreign countries. 
Sanghoon Won, a first year IM major, is 
one such student.Won was bom in Ko
rea and has been speaking English for 
three years.
Naturally, he expected language to be 
a big problem when he came here. How
ever, Won found language was only a 
minor problem. His biggest challenge 
was understanding American issues. He
felt often that his professors used ex
amples that were indigenous to Ameri
can culture. Because he does not have an 
American background, he found such 
issues as political correctness very for
eign.
Meeting new people and making new 
friends are some of the challenges first 
year students face. Bobby Lee, a first 
year undecided H&SS student, feels that 
it is nice to get to know new people but 
its much easier to deal with people who 
already know you. Barnard found her
It's nice to get to know new people, but it's 
much easier to deal with people who already 
know you."
 Dani Barnard
friends early. Most of the people she 
hangs out with live in her dorm. Won is 
glad he met most of his friends through 
orientation. He finds it difficult to meet 
people in class because all you do is 
listen and leave.
Adjusting to campus cuisine is an
other concern first year students have. 
Schimmel feels Highlander food is not 
homecooking, but it is not pitiful. He
believes the main problem with campus 
food is that there arent enough op
tions. The Highlander, Co-op, and 
Morewood Gardens all serve the same 
thing. Shimels main staple food has 
been turkey sandwiches.
Walsh ventures to the Highlander once 
in a while but when Im in that hallway, 
I smell that Highlander smell and I lose 
my appetite.
Walsh adjusted to her dislike of the 
Highlander odor by eating at the Com
mons or just by making stuff in her
___________________ room. Barnards
views are similar 
to Walshs: She 
often makes food 
in her room. She 
feels ice cream is 
the Highlanders 
only redeeming 
------------------------------ quality.
First year stu
dents do not face college adjustments 
alone. The office of Residence Life pro
vides faculty and other students as re
sources for helping first year students to 
adjust.
One resource is freshmen orientation, 
organized this year by Kimberly 
Didinato. Working along with Didina to 
were many Orientation Counselors and 
RAs who came back early to campus in
order to make freshmen orientation a 
success.
Lynn Pausic, a junior design major, 
was one of the head Orientation Counse
lors during this years freshmen orienta
tion. Pausic feels the way that orienta
tion is most beneficial for freshmen ad
justment through the exposure of as 
many issues as possible. Orientation 
concentrates on social and academic as
pects, as well as health and safety con
cerns. Pausic believes that such expo
sure helps to prepare them for the expe
riences they will most likely face.
This freshmen class was smaller than 
in previous years, but this did not cut 
down on the level of enthusiasm. Pausic 
noted that there was more participa
tion by the students. It wasnt necessar
ily that the numbers were higher, but 
those involved were more eager to par
ticipate.
Orientation occurs not only at the be
ginning of the fall semester but at the 
beginning of the spring semester as well. 
This year, Winter Orientation takes 
place on January 22,1995.
Winter Orientation differs from Fall 
Orientation because it is open to all 
students. The main focus in Winter Ori
entation concerns issues that students 
have encountered now that they are 
integrated with college life.
WuwhDrFg aCulrmfF [mlrzf AuC zuDAwFfm rDgfCDfg jwDUrfF
Focus on the Internet
by Kenton Shaver
Before the year winds down, Id 
like to take some time to pass 
along queries Ive received from 
my readers to a local expert: 
DrNet. Dear DrNet. Im an Art 
major and I used the 
alt.binaries.erotica tree a lot for 
still life modeling. Now that the
group has been banned by CMU, 
do I have any recourse? Sign me, 
Techno Artist.
Well, Techno Artist, I recom
mend that you check out the Cen
sorship at CMU World WideWeb 
page (http://www.cs.cmu.edu: 
8001/afs/cs. cmu.edu/usr/kcf/ 
www/censor/), find yourself a 
public NNTP server, and dig up a 
news reader. Get to work!
Dear DrNet, I have really 
tough Calculus classes this 
semster and noticed that theres 
a group called netnews.sci.math 
with a lot of really smart people 
on it. Do you think theyd mind if 
I asked them about integrals? 
Sign me, Calcophobic.
Well, Calcophobic, ifthese ques
tions are on homework problems, 
its a misuse of the net to ask 
them. Of course your TA may be 
a sci.math reader too, in which 
case you had better not be asking 
homework questions there! (http 
//www. c2. org/re mail/by - 
www.html) Its perfectly OK to 
ask him or her course-related 
questions, though, but maybe 
between the hours of midnight 
and 5 AM. Good luck.
Dear DrNet, I find that hang
ing out with my good buddies on 
our Internet Relay Chat channel 
is much more fun than studying 
for any of my six final examina
tions. Dont you think so? Sign
me, Procrastinator.
I agree, Procrastinator, espe
cially since we are probably not 
in any of the same classes. How
ever, the surest way to fail is to 
avoid trying. Power that CPU 
down. Attaboy!
Dear DrNet, I found these re
ally great bootleg games on an 
FTP server in Idaho. Ive been 
having my scruples about down
loading them, but 60s Free Love 
is just like the 90s Free Soft
ware, right? Sign me, Happy 
Gamer.
Well, Happy Gamer, the 60s 
werent really that great but in 
any case, I dont think they jus
tify software piracy, even if the
book of love was temporarily 
thrown out. Even if you think 
that you can get away with it, its 
still an abuse of the Internet. 
NetScape and Web Explorer (OS/ 
2s WWW browser), which was 
used while writing the last col
umn, are both commercial prod
ucts.
W3 and Mosaic, on the other 
hand, dont cost you anything to 
legally use. which is why I only 
mentioned them last week. CMU 
has site licenses to a lot of soft
ware, and many other applica
tions, like EzMail and MacMail, 
were developed in house. These 
can be cheap or free. Take advan
tage of campus resources.
Dear DrNet, my girlfriend says 
that my dirty frat room horrifies 
her but that when my mind is in 
a similar state, it often has quite 
the opposite effect on her. Why is 
this? Sign me, Loco. PS: Ive got a 
Mac in my room.
Loco, I dont know that your 
question has much to do with 
Focused on the Internet, but 
why not try painting your com
puter lime green and buying a 
cactus for it.
Kenton is a Technical Writing 
major who just cant play WRCT 
loudly enough. DrNet is a 
freelance consultant reachable at 
ks3l+@andrew xmu.edu
MONITOR COMPANY
,eTdMiI,Te se:,essd,e:
-----------------Our idea of a Software Development Environment: 
Object-Oriented Cappucino Maker
Jeans and T-shirts Mind Bending Business Models
Graphical User Interfaces Fun and Games
sVzffDg x[[CrfF
______ - ______ . ________ - ; - - - - - ~ :  ~  ~ ' ~ ~   " ~ 
Information Engineering is the software development division of Monitor Company, a world-wide man
agement consulting firm. We are currently searching for top-notch programmers and decision support 
consultants to join our rapidly growing group.
See our binder at the CMU Career Center to find out more about this exciting opportunity. We will be 
accepting resumes from interested CMU students until February 1,1995.

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfkc
WMj aurzf vuCU uD Cf[gruDF vrgb hrDuCrg] FgwmfDgF
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Staffwriter
,j Last Thursday, members of Spirit 
met with administrators and Campus 
.jpolice officials to discuss alleged harass
ement of blacks, specifically males on 
campus.... They charged Campus Police 
,,with harassment and discrimination.
These words were written by Tartan 
.(Stafiwriter Michael Ewedosh, in [ Blacks 
-;charge security with harassment, 
March 21, 1989.] Although the events 
^described in the article occurred just five 
jyears ago, most of us have no knowledge 
oof this past history. Relations between 
Campus Police and students, particu
larly students of color, have been a heated 
jissue for many years at CMU, though 
-the majority of us exist in utter igno
rance of this fact.
-r Back in 89, the University had such 
oserious problems with Campus Police 
..land its alleged treatment of students of 
2Color that black student leaders joined 
forces with alumni and the NAACP to 
{launch a major campaign against them. 
I,The medias response to this action forced 
-administrators to enact a series of cam- 
Kpus-wide diversity workshops, the ma
jority of which ended a few years back, 
due to limited student participation, the 
minority of which have remained com
ponents of basic training for campus 
police officers.
Although no new major charges of 
cdiscrimination and harassment have 
^been filed since the incident, the ques
tion remains: have relations between 
9Campus Police and students of color 
?really improved since 1989, or have ad
ministrators and students alike simply 
re-adjusted back into the status quo of
race relations at CMU?
When I was a freshman I remember 
upper-classmen telling me stories about 
cops stopping them and asking them for 
their IDs, and if they went to school 
here. It doesnt happen anymore, and if 
it does, its a rare occurrence, said Will 
Motley, a senior civil engineering major 
who was arrested by Campus Police ear
lier this year, due to a perceived alterca
tion between he and his roommate. The 
charges have since been dropped.
As far as cops go, I never really had a 
problem with the way that Campus Po
lice do their busi- ______________________
ness.
Except that in 
certain situa
tions where 
theres a minor
ity involved they 
tend to be less 
flexible. The per
ception received
by me and a lot of other people of color on 
this campus is that whites can get away 
with a lot more on campus than we can, 
said Motley.
At the last Spirit party one of the 
CMU officers walked up the stairs to the 
house with a night stick visible in his 
hand. Im sure that when there are fights 
in the frats you dont see the same offic
ers walking into a frat house with a 
night stick in his hand. This is represen
tative of how the cops treat a situation 
with a black involved differently than 
they would treat a situation with a 
white, said Motley.
Of the people (police officers) that I 
work with, I dont think that anybody 
here has it in for students, or students of 
color in particular, said Bill Kaiser,
Campus Police detective.
As far as race-relations go, its a touchy 
subject because were dealing with 
peoples perceptions, and sometimes 
these are correct, and sometimes theyre 
not....
When Im in the field I have to con
sider tactical law-enforcement, public- 
safety, and officer safety issues.... A lot 
of this is judgment. A lot of this stuff can 
be perceived in a way that it was never 
meant to be, said Kaiser.
Ive stopped all kinds of people: blacks, 
Asians, Indians, whites. Its very diffi-
Of the people that I work with, I don't think 
that anybody here has it in for students, or 
students of color in particular."
 Bill Kaiser, campus police detective
cult when I have a complete description 
of somebody and I have to go approach 
someone and talk to them. A couple of 
times people thought I was stopping 
them because they were black and they 
accused me of being a racist. But I stopped 
people because they fit a description, not 
because I wanna walk all the way over to 
a certain area and question a black guy, 
Kaiser added.
Speaking about these issues, Gloria 
Hill, director of CMAP said, I honestly 
believe that Chief Lapaglia has been 
real responsive to situations that have 
come up, and that he has tried to sensi
tize the police force. But what happens 
around here is that the attention to 
diversity and sensitivity goes in cycles. 
We focus on it when something happens
and then we dont deal with it until the 
situation comes up again. Were in a 
reactionary rather than preventative 
mode.
Hill said that Campus Police officers 
have a dual responsibility to protect 
students, and to respect their rights. 
Students arent always aware of what 
their rights are. Its critical for students 
to become familiar with their rights. Its 
particularly important for students and 
black students here, because typically 
they have not had a lot of experience in 
dealing with the police.
_______________ Contrary to stereo
types about people of 
color, by and large, the 
ones on this campus 
dont fit the stereo
type. Theyre good stu
dents, theyve done 
community service, 
theyre good kids. 
 Therefore, when they 
get into a situation with police it be
comes very threatening, because they 
havent had experience, said Hill.
Hill offered suggestions of actions that 
the University could take to improve 
student/police relations. You have to 
educate the campus community about 
what behaviors and situations can get 
you into trouble with the Campus Po
lice.
If the Campus Police go into a situa
tion in which they just get to know stu
dents better, and this takes place on the 
other side (students) too, then students 
will become familiar with what campus 
security is all about. Education is the 
key, said Hill.
Chief of Security James Lapaglia ex
plained recent pro-active measures the
security department is employing, in 
conjunction with Student Affairs, to 
improve student/police relations. Were 
looking at three primary areas: traiii- 
ing, department policies and procedure^, 
and direct communications.... As far fs 
training goes, were focusing on internal 
training with the sensitive crime unit, 
training in dealing with diverse groups, 
and in dealing with hate crimes. Interns 
of policies and procedures, our primt 
function is to give guidance and instruc
tion to our officers in particular situa
tions, said Lapaglia.
One thing thats been lacking th&t 
were starting this year is direct commu
nications. With that in mind, some of the 
things were doing in Student Affairs fs 
working with different student groups 
in educational conference meetings. It 
started in November and is running 
throughout the rest of the year. Were 
assigning liaison officers to groups that 
express an interest in having direct com
munication with our department. Weve 
already assigned one of our officers, 
Martin White, as a liaison with Spirit, 
said Lapaglia.
This relationship with different 
groups would give input to our policies 
and what were doing, thus it would be 
more likely for people to accept them as 
being fair.... Wed like to solicit any stu
dents reading this article to provide their 
input to any available media, be it e- 
mail, phone, or just stopping by, said 
Lapaglia.
Motley expressed his opinion on this 
matter: I think its good that there aie 
some officers that want to come to our 
meetings and talk to us, but if those 
officers are not the source of the problem 
then its not gonna help matters much.
WMj Fuzr[ rAf hwFg yu gbCuwyb ulfCb[w AuC ]f[C N(((
SOCIAL, from page LI
as am onward.
The independent party scenes 
future is less certain. Dorm room 
1 gatherings, while increasingly 
rrare, should con
tinue to be popular 
as long as theres 
fsomeone around 
i whos old enough to 
buy insane quanti- 
| ties of alcohol.
| Large off-campus fetes are an- 
j other story altogether, owing 
mostly to the fact that CMUs 
current underground alterna- 
crowd consists mainly of youths 
from suburban New Jersey who 
(1) discover that theyre differ
ent from the mainstream; (2) get 
their noses pierced; and (3) flock 
to underground parties and 
drink cheap vodka until they 
throw up.
This scene has already begun 
to annoy people, and all signs
point to its continued decline.
Datings future also looks grim. 
Currently, the dating picture at 
CMU is decidedly gloomy; 95 
percent of the undergraduate
Very little information can 
found on the current state 
fairs of sex at CMU...
be
of af-
population either hasnt had a 
date since the prom or is en
gaged to be married. This statis
tic will not change significantly 
as we approach the millennium, 
but in order to deal more appro
priately with the situation, Stu
dent Affairs may begin handing 
out airline-style sick sack vomit 
bags in the freshman orienta
tion packets.
On a related note, the number 
of geek couples on campus will, 
in all probability, multiply be
yond all reasonable proportions; 
numerous public displays of af
fection will incense the campus 
to revolt. A grassroots Stamp 
Out Ugly Love movement will 
gain widespread 
popularity and na
tional attention, 
but the problem 
will nevertheless
___________ continue to plague
the student body.
And what about the future of 
sex? Its a tough one to predict. 
Very little information can be 
found on the current state of af
fairs of sex at CMU, perhaps be
cause so little activity exists in 
the first place. To wit: in a recent 
poll that asked CMU students to 
rate their sex lives, respondents 
described their typical partners 
as being at- arms length and 
reliable; major turnoffs included 
hangnails and carpal tunnel syn
drome.
In any case, the sex problem all you doubters who said your pus will have the opportunity to 
will only get worse in the coming sex lives couldnt possibly get engage in hot, steamy cybersex 
century as cybersex gains ground worse  soon youll be whisper- whenever the urge strikes! And 
over the exchange of bodily fluids ing sweet nothings to your hard you thought the Wean cluster 
currently in vogue. So take heart, drive. In fact, everyone on cam- smells bad now....
Interdisciplinary classes guide 
future of CMUs academic path
ACADEMICS, from page LI
i departmental. You can study sub
jects like: The History of Physics 
and its Influence on the Papacy, 
Artificial intelligence and Theat
rical Interaction, Psychological 
Foundations of Modern Economic 
Theory, or Music, Sculpture, and 
the Prime Number.
Most of the classes are taught 
by one professor, but imagine how 
hard CMU had to look to find 
them.
As always, CMU is still at the 
forefront of digital networking. 
Because of recent technological
developments and the sudden 
increase in interest because of 
the courses offered, the student 
body has grown to 20,000. Most 
of them never set foot on the cam
pus. Instead, they are tele-com- 
muters that log onto Andrew from 
around the world and watch 
classes. They have to ask ques
tions and do homework through 
electronic mail. This isnt nearly 
as interactive so such students 
actually earn virtual degrees that 
they receive through email. But, 
hey, they probably get fed a lot 
better.
It may sound like technology 
has taken over the classes. It has, 
well, most of them anyway. There 
is something of a retro movement 
in the older fields from the col
leges of MCS, H&SS and CFA. 
You will occasionally see theEth- 
ics class in Philosophy wander
ing around campus.
The professor wearing a long, 
white robe, spouting syllogisms, 
is surrounded by students bent 
on his every word. The Social 
Reactions to Technology class is 
studying the ethics class for their 
next homework assignment.
Campus appearance evolves into 
futuristic, computer-like machine
jCAMPUS, from page LI
electronic equipment. It was only 
a few days before the news got 
around to me that the U.S. Gov
ernment was sponsoring the 
building of an experimental labo
ratory on our campus, which 
would replace the entire Cut.
i There was some top-secret 
agenda that we as students 
werent to know about, 
j Yet the evidence of its pre sence 
crept in as the year progressed: 
the university buildings were 
quickly condensed into a single 
tarea to make more room for the 
government laboratory, and we 
i!?egan to see officials and people 
ln white coats as we walked
through the campus. Classes be
gan to be held over the Internet 
system, so that there was less of 
a need for classrooms.
It was all revealed in the mid
summer of1996, the entire story 
of what had initiated on our cam
pus surfaced world-wide, the 
whole thing dubbed The Revolu
tion.
A group of computer scientists 
and biologists within the univer
sity had been working under a 
government grant to successfully 
arrive at what was one of the 
largest technological advances of 
the day: the ability to duplicate 
human life form through a com
bination of computer program
ming and controlled gene-cultur
ing.
At that point every stone, brick, 
and cement building had been 
knocked down as if in a breath of 
air, and the years of time that 
had brushed the walls was 
dragged away in broken chunks 
in large tanks. The solar-pan
elled monsters stood in place, and 
the dark block of the university 
was surrounded in its entirety by 
a laser shield.
Soon the gymnasium, the li
brary, the football field, and the 
cafeterias were gone as well, and 
we were left immobile in the dark 
andimpotent womb of future gen
erations.
mm us
Mi ,I Tn 
ITSM
m VOUA TOHCU-C OH A HOI TAIPI 
wow in vou valid (my i.d. caad and wil 
m 2e% oh o m limen imnu mm. 
ALSO. (AKA OUT OU* NOT LOCATION 
INTA NOM AI Hi, NOW OWN. 
Y0ID UNDISPUTED m WAN AOTUAANT" -BY 
0TA IN PIMM AND PITTIMA 1ACAZIH-E.
,o
gre hrV
n T4ii mm o fliwooD t. and mu it. in ojmd. gbi eccc 
OH nWIHIGJITM. -KM 001 ITldHTMM UflM. 3CC-ECEC

---------------------------------------------------

6o&u ifJ6
MT\,sx ,'M :T,e: IT Mits nse , :dT jo
Bs w\n.
Uee*!
INTERVIEW 
WITH A 
3-3EAR-OLD 
VAMPIRE
iw
l?T *\Mt'
(fcOSJ i
ARE Hoo A VAMPiAE?
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
W1E NEVER UKD A!* OBUGAT\OU, 
AN ASSIGNMENT, OR ^ DEADLINE IK 
ML W UFE.' to WME NO
Na a a tlieWoichc/cTcli
I AT AU..' IT MUST
6.1 01- Pun. of 
LWING N'SELS IS 
THAT SOO SET TO BE SMUS ABOJT IT.
" JNTIL YOU STALK 
AND OVERRUN, 
YOJ CANT DEVOUR ANNONE,"
~toU NEVER KNOW HCW L0N6 
tWVE SOT ' *W COUU> 
STEP INTO THE KM TT*0RSW 
AND-MM/MCW GET HIT BN A CEMENT TRUtlt.' TMEN 
WD BE SORW NOU PUT OFf 
tiJR PLEASURES;
t&l j
loo y
TUE W,AV
IVE DECIDED 
I DONT WANT 
10 BE FAMOUS
HAU. y IDIOT CAN SE 
FAMOUS. I FIGURE IM more tue legendaryTPE.'
/V^ 
V<-< -
J UH HU j
WELL I D\DNT MEAN R\GUT TU\S SECOH0 l e g %fX~r'
' ^ i  ' '
CAN Vit BURN n 
TUESE LEAVES ? I JBUT HOW CAN WE 
APPEASE TUE MlGHTX 
SNOW DEMONS IF
Y1 2846 3-50clc51
AW LE KM ES dl 
WE'LL HAVE A WARM WINTER /
 DONT KNOW WHETHER 
\<X)R GRASP OF THEOLOGY 
OR. METEOROLC&'i IS 
TUE. MORE APPALLING.
I GUESS I LL GO 
L\GUT SOME CAUDLES 
ARDONO TUE TOBOGGAN AND BEG R MERCN
Ta y
DO NaJ THINK TIGERS GO To 
TUE SAME HEAMEN TUAT PEOPLE CO TO
1 WEAN. \N HE AMEN, EVEWONE 
IS SUPPOSED TO BE HAPPY 
RIGHT 5 BUT PEOPLE WOJLDNT 
BE HAPPN IV' THEN WERE 
ALWAYS IN DANGER 
a- BEIKfe EATEN
BN TIERS'
I
;-4M
ON TUE OTHER HAND. HEAUER 
WOULDNT 3E MERS N\CEmmur tigers either .I WOJLDNT W\?Pi IF 
TUEQE WERENY ANS UGES 
VPM\S&TUEM. ______-
WAHBt TIGERS ] BUT THEN ar 
JUST DONT EAT \ WOJLDNT BE. 
PEOPLE \N 
HEANEN
y DAT), ILL ( MM... OK. 
GUESS y I l*Mt GOT IT. 
NUMBER foU'RE 
THINKING OF lGO AHEAD,
A NUMBER.'
So TOMORROW. I D L\KE THE 
JEU-N PUT IN A SEPARATE 
CONTAINER W\TU A KN\FE, 
SO I CAN SPREAD TUE JEUM 
AT THE LAST PCfcS\Bl MOMEuT 
BEFORE I EAT TUE SANDWCU.
/
I .33 EE
AVSO, 10U KEEP USING BREAD 
FROM THE KVDinJE OF THELOAF 
I ONU L\K THOSE 
PCES FOR. TOAST.
FOR SMWMCRSS, 1 
WANT 0HI1 TUE EHQ 
P\ECES, BECAUSE 
THOSE DONT ABSoeS 
AS MUCH JEI . .
586 a6^

---------------------------------------------------

f CAN YOU X 6AN You HELP
oeyA N. oLplvim m ip* ms ics 
vRontviss, / hqm^o^T pt-^a,
.. FELLA? / ^ PM LI Alfe-.
Wttf'S THE. OTTD
U3^
V^=^v'rt^T SNELLS 
-------------^ yc,-? 
G/dEM O
oTHfct2- ) // %* ^ s' "N
TIME.) P/VU / 1 [SoKK'iA
^ ir- ^" MM./
ttS NI CE TO 
EE AMERICA'S 
YbaTH Au. /YwTohsA UP POK TFiE KEAL. 
. WoKU7.
^PV PLE^vSt y'
iora > N
_X'M BROKELadtV !wkI3!m
CAW 'OVA TLL*
, r^E: V^o THl <~.
\ NeTC)N &U^ IS?
Whats a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
V/endeH, I ve created
new invention. Iti 
CK s(ior+~disf<*nce pinone.
;nOW,
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
... rtn PesolMgSf wnigo &mwem>Si m>rPgin rtn< Mo7 }JuC+ }Ju-CyJuhp7
1 ...TOSEEK HISFORTUNE. |
KNOW WHERE /OUR Beer
\ k\ couu? dpC is IpCCcIFTHDABED* ARRESTED.
fAM ! LOOK ME CALLATAU~ TUB THAT AREA TRAN5- NICOLS-xMIS&ON VILLE- IC:,}Lhv rlt
IT'S SORT OF A SUBURB OF O.J. CITY-A PRIVILEGE? ENCLAVE OF AIR CONDITIONING AND OXTERED BUFFETS...
HERE, IME VE GOT ALL THE PROBLEMS OF ANY CITY-NOISE, POLLUTION, POOR SANITATION-.EVEN
.ALONE JOURNALISTARRIVES..FOREIGNJOURNAL-
ISTS-ALLSTARVEDcmi IHEfR I AN- : 
CHOR! I
I fZlCK, NEWLY ARRIVED IN O.J. CITY, IS SOON BESET 
I BY TUB VOICES OF COMMERCE.
NO! PON'T PO GE3, IT, RICK! ITSTHAT A SCAM! OFF SOUNPS WITH YOU, KJP! FAIR... \ ^
NO PROBLEM. I WHEW! DIDN'T WANT YOU THANKS, TO MAKE THE SAME ROLANP MISTAKE I PIP
THESE PEOPLE ARE UNDER? ALOTOFFRES6URS' THEY j 
WORK HARDANP THEY PLAY HAR... HEY, LOOK! J 
'~1i A COCK FIGHT! J0
^1 O.J. CITY ISFULLOF S* ROUGH MEN, RICK- 
 ANP ROUGHER IMO- Tl MEN! BEST TO KEEP 
1 YOURWiTS ABOUT YOUj,
WHAT YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER IS THAT EVERYONE HERB IS AFTER THE SAME THING-INFORMATION-ANP SOME OF THEM WILL STOP AT NOTHING TD GET IT!
ME, NEITHER. JUPGE ITO SPECIFICALLY BANNED THEM1
MY GOP- I PON'T BELIEVEIT.A.......
MISTER'.YOU WANTTO BUY NICOLE'STRAIN- 
ERS DIARY? ONLY *25!YO.BUPPY!SHIRSHERE'
.17771
WELL ACTUALLY} IHAPN'T J WORKED THAT\ OUT YET... I
W ROLANP! 
-f NICE TO ti SEE A pfi FAMILIAR 
Afc FACE! t
WELCOME TO O.J. CITY, GUY! WHERE YOU r STAYIN6? J
WELL JHEN YOUBETTER 
BUNK WITH MEINMY MAKE-UP \TRAILER-
EVERYOhE DAMN BETCHA ! mNKS ..\OdL+ mS<srfc? COMPETITIVE STORY, /  GUY! YOUSAYANY-' THING IN YOURSLEEP, I'LL BREAK IT LIVE BEFORE YOU
I GATHER. THE CONDF WNS THERE ARE A LITTLE PRIMITIVE. 1 JUST HOPE YOUR FATHER IS TAKING CARE OF HIMSELF
THE ONLY. . THINGCHEAP 
HEREtSLfFE -i RICK, j-t
MOMMY, NOT FOR A WHILE. WHEN'S HONEY. THE O.J. DADDY TRIAL COULD COMING TAKEMONTHS. 
HOME 7 ' ----------------N-
I'VE ALREADY 
GOTTEN THREE SCOOPS THAT WAY...
WHERE'S HE STAYING?
AT A BIG MEDIA ENCAMPMENT CALLED O.J. COY..
OdUCKSx FOR A 
POTATO?
Cy\Lh\ FOR THE : WARNING.
(OKAY. WERE STILL TALKING ' 
\ ABOUT SPEAKER-IN-WATTING i NEWT GINGRICH! IS THE , I CALLER THERE? r~-----
HIS SICK WIFE AND MAN, TWO DAUGHTERS BE- j;raNj CASOSO DESTITUTE, ,MA6!NE THEJR PASTOR HAD TO ASK THEIR FELLOW jyaT
CHURCH MEAJBERS PiTiFUl1 FOR ASSISTANCE. mihUL
I IMAGINING A SCENE THAT PITIFUL^ MARK. GINGRICH SAYS ' THE LIBERAL MEDIA ELITE HATE HIM BECAUSE HE'S CONSERVATIVE. MYTH OR REALITY?
TOTAL AJMYTH...
\NEWT PICKS HIS MOMENT. |THE MEDIA PONT LOATHE NEWT BECAUSE HE'S CONSERVATIVE -WE LOATHE HIM BECAUSE HE'S GENUINELY LOATHSOME1 A
FROM THERE, CALLER,IT WAS ALL DOWNHILL! 
NEWT FIGURED THAT*100 A WEEK SHOULD BE SUFFICIENT SUPPORT FOR HIS FORMER FAMILY... ^
T RIGHT. M ACTUALLY, WE'RE STARTING TO WARM TO CONSERVA- 
 TIVES! M*.
f I SHOULD A \JUSTPUT'EM 
i IN AN OR- J PHANAGE'J-
1ST US NOW PRAYFOR1HE GINGRICH CHILDREN...
DIVORCE? BUTI-.I HAVE CANCER--
PRESS HARD. YOU'RE MAK1N6
a EPyN
SO WHAT POES THE NEUTT-MAN HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THE PI5MR- TTY BETWEEN HIS PROFESSED VALUES ANP HIS OWN BEHAVIOR ?
MARK, I HEAR THE NEWT- MEISTER SLIP INTO CCN6RESS USING THE WORST SMEAR TAC ]!CB SINCE NIXON/N'46! TRUE ?
ANP HERE'S NEWT ON WHY HE WON'T PISCLOSE TH.E NAMES OF HIS PACS DONORS..
WHEN I ASKED HIM IN AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW 
OUTSIDE HIS OFFICE, THIS WAS HIS RESPONSE... S
ABSOLUTELY! AND THAVS BEEN THE HALLMARK OF HIS PUBLIC LIFE EVER SINCE! A RECKLESS DISRE6ARDF0R TRUTH, THE DEFAMING OF OP- PONENISAS TRAITORS...
AS FOR HIS IWOULPNT, PRIVATE EXCEPT HESUFE, WELL, MADE ITGER- 
PONTASK! MANE. PISH
MmSk
THINK BILL n 
CLINTON-ONLY WHOUT STATE
WOW...SO HEREALLY DOES PJTTAXPAYER?.FIRST!
LATER, WHEN I CALLED TO ASK HIM ABOUT THE ETHICS 
COMMUTEE INVESTIGATION OF HIS POLITICAL ACTON COMMITTEE, HE HAD THIS TO SAY...GET THE HELL OUT OF MY 
FACEI
PERVERT'
TRAITOR :iQJKH
I JUST WANTED TO r THANK YOU FOR AN ABSOLUTELY SPLENDID EVENING CF- PUBUC AFFAIRS PROGRAMMING1
g fpCCcI CJ LJ. p.C777IMAGINING SUCH A SCENE.BEFORE YOUR SHOW. I WOULD HAVE SAID THATGINSRICH IS; JUST A RI6HT-WING NUT. NOW 1 KNOW HE'S A MEAN, VICIOUS, HYPOCRITICAL RIGHT-WING NUT' HATS OFF TO YOU AND NPR <
IT HAPPENED WHEN HIS WIFE WA5 STRUGGLING WITH CANCER. RI6HTAFTER HER OPERATION, GINGRICH SHOWED UP IN HER HOSPITAL ROOM AND PRESENTED HER WITH A DIVORCE SETTLEMENT!
1 OKAY, WE'VE GOT TIME FOR JUST ONE MORE. IS THE CALLER \ THERE ? r'
DO YOU 1 FOLKS I ACCEPT ^ Dowim-\ 
)W$HOULD'\
> 'WELL. THANKS, . MAN! WE DO ! TRY TO BE [ EDUCATIONAL
BUT THAT'S...THAVS 
APPALLING/1 CANT EVEN IMAGINE SUCH A SCENE! -
DAMMfT, XM.NV STOP WHINING AND SIGN1
MARK, I UNDERSTAND MR FAMILY VALUES HAD A 
PRETTY MESSY DIVORCE...
NEWT, I'M.. I'M TOO
YOUMIGHT
SAY
THAT...,

---------------------------------------------------

CtaN VEUe nV expc-n-y 
THe i
v To PH& se^T,,.
A>o Vw. t-\KC THE.
I SI6H. Mfi.. MA'/oit'?
1^u>pu, 'blotiJto,
bHoP >>j
} TUBE CiTYi
forse V\tf+tK'r\ <yJi 
-fourt* N/
TWfc;^ -*** (*&> ^
pouN^OuiiJ M.
tf&T Thea rt TUftf CITV, nisgo j S5
1 1 fcPPA &ET A UfcW 
_ \ vee>E vofr lbNgeV ft.
( ''y '"  U) eaj -to
r^^5;Og: r-iSMpv R^e e^t.y
fue 'Oaw*J-C>trJ MEKtMfyoXi'' Afeto^-. ) 
uiMfrT, ^y^gM'f ycu. <Ok? y
^0 I'M- fw SPAAU/fc6M -fhi&N 
------s=^jar-.. \^$IDE \-itI>,
I [ T^/(Uv ,^ ^gt 
1 I 5cm1- 5^fE,,, IK-' 14
^YfAt/? pfxE3 U-'f u.jtl 
lyouf?- !?^'T''t nfd(
da- -v 
I ( ZoM Su.fi-& l0irr i-
I ^ fiAoae^ U>iftrQ^.__________'
^ ioei^r^l JUT x>AT^\ /
g|666, PE&L 8 (AT > ) I'^PIfr'-
fc* fc. jj^-CT^ 
nt-n.e' djjf 7L <53li^') "")^(\p- wr(&^j T-Cmb**)/ 
Th I ^e^.rfiS fTT r> V ''V
By GARY LARSON
Therere some, folks! These rare and lovely creations 
have no natural enemies, but balloon animals 
never last too long in this harsh land.
"Remo! Lift with your knees, not your back!"
"OK, crybaby! You want the last soda? 
Well, let me GET IT READY FOR YOU!"
uogs and alcohol: rhe tragic untold story."Hell, Ben, you catch a few bullets through your 
hat during every holdup, and Im finally gonna 
say I aint ever been much impressed."
By simply attaching the new ACME Wingbaby, 
airlines can significantly improve their 
passengers overall comfort.
"OK, thats pretty good!... Now! I want everyone 
on this side of the aisle to come in rubbing 
their legs together when I signal!... And

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
,Dmr[D [Cg yC[zfF nwDg
By NATALIE WOCHELLE
Tartan Staffwriter
Rajasthan is the desert state in 
northwest India, from which six 
artists have come to the Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documen
tation to retell the history and 
tradition of their country. As is 
customary in India, artists learn 
their painting skills from their 
fathers and grandfathers. Many 
of these skills have come from 
copying photographs or other art 
works reproducedin books, which
Mahaveer Swami 
MahaveerSwami paints a portrait 
of himself painting a portrait of 
himself....
tional painters. Indian artists 
do not view creative and copy
ing as different. They are two 
words that come together in the 
paintings executed in watercolor, 
gouache or tempra, as well as in 
pigments from earths and semi
precious stones.
Folk art or fine art, I ask. 
This is such a different exhibi
tion because one must not enter 
it with a Western perception  
thinking it is only pure plagirism. 
As said one of the artists, If a 
Westerner hears the beginning 
of a familiar story, he is likely to 
say, Oh, no, not that one again. 
Ive already heard it. But to an 
Indian, the recognition of a famil-
Damodadr Lai Gurjar 
This picture, sketched from a 
book, is considered original.
have been displayed at Hunt.
Copying someone elses artwork 
may bring many problems in the 
West. Since in India the idea of 
copyright infrigement is equally 
dangerous, these artists use 
Western films, videos, pop music,
books, carbonated beverages, and iar story, theme, or painting is a 
even shoes as their targets. cause for a great delight, Oh, 
In a BBC documentary on In- good, its that one! 
dian art, the interviewer asked a Please see ART, page Lll
J aipur artist, How 
much of your work 
is creative? The 
artist replied that 
all of it is creative.
Not content with 
the reply, the in
terviewer said that 
how could that be, 
if she recognized 
some of the artists 
paintings as copies 
of older works. The 
artist looked puz
zled and said, If 
we dont copy old 
masterpieces then 
were not tradi-
Jaggu Prasad
The subject of these paintings are often simple 
bits of nature, as shown above.
Fuente entertains
By PAUL TABACHNECK
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Play: Fuente Ovejuna 
Place: University of Pittsburgh 
Starring: Howard Williams Jr., Laura Smiley, 
William A. Thomas, III
Written by Frey Felix Lope de Vega Carpio in 
the early 17th century, Fuente Ovejuna is a 
retelling of an infamous incident in a Spanish 
village of the same name; 
the peasants of the town got 
together and killed their tyr
annous commander. When 
brought to trial, all they told 
the royal judges was that it 
was Fuente Ovejuna who had 
commited the crime. Today,
Pitt Theatre has chosen to 
retell this age-old story to us, 
the theater-goers of 
society.There is an inherent 
challenge posed in directing 
a production of a play writ
ten before the early 1900s; 
prose style so often used in 
that day is natural, and its 
very tempting to just slip into 
it. It was written that way; 
its comfortable.
Unfortunately, this pro
ducti on lacks, at times,; ofthe restraint so essen
tial to this type of play. There are times when it 
is appropriate, such as the: singing of songs, but 
once it is revealed that the rhyme scheme goes 
beyond those moments, the audience finds them
selves subdued in the attempt to parse the other 
lines into the A/B/A/B rhyme scheme.
This, combined with a kind of general feel of
amateurish theatrical interactionyou get the 
feeling that the actors are thinking to them
selves, OK, I've said my line, and now, hes 
gonna say his, and then..."makes the first act 
go down somewhat poorly. When both of these 
disadvantages work together, you get a play 
that was written to flow endlessly, but wont 
flow at all because no one is working on the same 
wavelength.
After the intermission, however, the real 
dramats stand up. When Laurencia, played by 
Laura Smiley (Jeffrey, The 
Only Jealousy ofEmer 
) bursts into the scene in 
her state of broken innocence, 
one finally feels the sting and 
the reality of the situation. 
Fuente Ovejuna is in dark 
times, and something must 
be done. Consistently excel
lent performances were also 
given by Lori Anne Sharpless 
as -Jacinta and David 
Pellegrini as the oafish 
Mengo, as well as the trio of 
actors who represented The 
Rulers, who, when not in ac
tion, remained still in their 
regal postures (Andy 
avlinsky st ands at atfenHoh : 
for the full duration as Don 
Manrique.) seeming to over-
K'Pioe*lyPasr<e 
Christina Petrillo and John Ayers 
divinely witness the romance 
between the lovers played by Laura 
Smiley and William A. Thomas HI.
see the entire play. A smile for that detail goes to 
the director, graduate student Kevin Wetmore, 
Jr.
All in all, its not a bad play; although lacking 
in the first act, it does shape up to produce a nice 
finale. Just dont go expecting the great cultural 
experience; some theat re is just entertaining for 
entertainments sake.
e,e afCAuChF rD orggFkwCyb AuC [DyFgPArfm ]uwgb
By JASON ANDRACK3
Tartan Staffwriter
November 26 drew probably the larg
est crowd of disenchanted, angst-filled 
youth to the Civic Arena ever to see the 
man who makes his living selling his 
personal suffering, Trent Reznor of Nine 
Inch Nails.
The evening began horribly as I 
watched the two opening groups, Marilyn 
Manson and The Jim Rose Circus, from 
my vantage point in the undisputed worst 
seat in the house. Actually that was a 
blessing in disguise; Im glad I couldnt 
see the openers too closely.
Marilyn Manson has been causing a 
little bit of a stir with their disturbing 
no, disgusting  lyrics, and rightly so. 
Song titles like Cake and Sodomy and 
a not-so-negative view of child abuse 
have earned them this.
Their music was unimaginative. All 
you had to hear was the first song and 
you heard all that Manson had to offer. 
The bright points of their performance 
weren?t even original. They opened by 
reciting the haunting poem from the 
boat ride in Willy Wonka and the Choco
late Factory which they played to open
ing verse of the Eurythmics Sweet 
Dreams. Even though the lead singer 
named is Marilyn, you cant dispute his 
manhood. He displayed it to the crowd.
Second up was the Jim Rose Circus 
which was slightly more entertaining, 
yet I still couldnt see too much because 
of my horrid seat. Jim Rose has as
sembled a freak show if there ever was 
one and, being a Nineties kinda guy is 
multicultural about it.
The circus consisted of a female who 
laid on a bed of nails (topless, which I 
found completely sexist and useless,) an
Asian pseudo-Sumo wrestler who laid 
on razor sharp (so they say) swords, an 
Armenian contortionist, and a guy with 
so many tattoos you couldnt distinguish 
his race. There was also the All- Ameri
can white boy, Mr. Lift-O, who lifted 
things with various parts of his pierced 
body. All of these tricks were done while 
Rose provided sportscaster-like banter.
Finally, after two opening acts that 
didnt nearly provide my $26 worth, it 
was time for Nine Inch Nails to take the 
stage.
Their performance began with a ex
tended version of the instrumental Pin-^ 
ion, and then Rezrior shot through the 
drapes covering most of the stage and 
started into Mr. Self Destruct.
The crowd on the Arena floor, the 
general admission pit, surged toward 
the stage for a better view of the rather 
puny Mr. Reznor. The crowd swarmed
about as one large moshing mass during 
the MTV hit Wish.
Although the music was clearly enter
taining, I found myself mesmerized by 
the spectacular light show.
This was clearly worth the wait and 
the money.
It was often difficult to decide what to 
pay attention to, Reznor as he raced 
about the stage hopping on monitors 
and wreaking havoc on the equipment, 
the mesmerizing lights that pulsed to 
the beat, or the crowd full of people that 
looked more like one living organism as 
it moved in its chaotic path.
Also, during Eraser and Hurt, the 
screen that covered the stage during the 
opening acts fell once again for a movie 
that I was unfortunately unable to see 
thanks to my seat on the far right of the 
stage. The only thing I could make out is 
blood covering the screen at the begin
ning of The Downward Spiral.
Anticipated songs like Sin and Head 
Like a Hole from NINs first album, 
Pretty Hate Machine, brought on the 
most crowd response, but I enjoyed the 
more obscure songs like Gave Up and 
Reptile.
Following Head Like a Hole, the 
band took a break and returned for a 
four song encore consisting of Closer, 
Dead Souls, I Do Not Want This, and 
Something I Can Never Have for what 
Reznor called, The closest thing I have 
to a hometown crowd, since hes from 
Mercer, Pennsylvania.
Nine Inch Nails easily made up for the 
disappointment of the two openers. It 
was well worth the money (it has to be 
expensive just to compensate for the 
equipment Reznor destroys in a night!) 
If you have a chance, check them out 
when they come to your town.
nf kCf[UF uuFf rD Killing Zoe vrgb lrufDzfp h[]bfh
By WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Boys today are having pretty weird fantasies 
with call-girls; Remember True Romance1? In Kill
ing Zoe, Eric Stoltz is the American safe-cracker 
who gets invited to Paris on business. At the 
beginning, things go very well; his wife for the 
night is Zoe (Julie Delphy), an art student that 
works days as a bank teller and nights as a call-girl 
to pay her tuition. Obviously they like each other 
since they both have z names, Zed and Zoe. But 
sooner than youd expect, Eric (Jean-Hugues 
Anglade) comes in, greets Zed, and throws Zoe, all 
in about three minutes. You see, Eric is in a hurry 
because they are robbing a bank tomorrow.
What follows is mostly an exercise in distorted 
camera angles and whimsical focusing. Zed gets 
introduced to Erics gang, a bunch of trashy drug-
addicts you would never rob a bank with. After 
spending about five minutes planning the heist, 
they go out and stone their brains out; after all, this 
is living life. Next morning they go to rob the bank 
and (surprise, surprise) all hell breaks loose. You 
see, nobody would make a movie about a bank 
robbery that works; there wouldnt be enough 
blood in it.
Now mind you, this cant be your ordinary heist 
movie. For one, it was directed by Roger Avary 
whos a pal of Tarantino back from the ol film-buff 
days. From this, we know that Avary must be 
pretty knowledgeable in film. And he has to be, 
since Killing Zoe features tricks used by Carax, 
Melville, and Walt Disney, plus footage from 
Murnaus Nosferatu. In this case, no amount of 
tricks can save this mess. You see, not every film- 
buff can make a decent film.
Theres a considerable fraction of the fans of the
neo-violent films that enjoy them purely for the 
violence. They get a thrill each time a chainsaw or 
a katana is shown on the screen. They ponder at 
the possibilities. They wait for the cool thug to blast 
away the un-cool thug to see his intestines. Well, if 
you give them a movie like Le Samourai or Reser
voir Dogs, they are missing out big time. You see, 
movies like these have actual content. Theres a 
reason behind the violence first of all, and the 
violence is real.
Now Avary doesnt seem to have learned that 
lesson. He seems to be one of the fans of blood for 
bloods sake. The whole movie plays like a bad trip. 
This could mean potential, but Avary is just way 
too clumsy to take advantage of it. The montage in 
some scenes will literally make you squirm. And 
the acting may do so too. Stoltz is almost dead. 
Julie Delphys fans, myself included, will be glad to 
see her, but I recommend renting White instead of
watching this. And I thought it was always good to 
see Anglade. Hes one of my favorites, being the 
free-as-a-bird tender intellectual that gets the gor
geous French girlfriends. But as a crazed criminal, 
he can get a little annoying, especially with the 
repetitive, clumsy dialogue. You see, not even good 
actors can save a script like this.
However, not everything can be bad, even in 
todays cinema. In a sense it is good that indepen
dent movies like this get made. And that feel of 
hard-core filming is especially necessary these 
days. We need as many independent filmmakers 
out there as we can get. But they must remember 
that they are making movies, not videos. Avary 
probably forgot this when making a sex scene that 
cuts to Nosferatu in the TV. Having lots of gun
shots and chaotic situations does not make a movie 
good. Youve got to have a tale, and the skill to tell 
it.
The Nutcracker zb[ChF zbrmCfDp [wmrfDzf uafDrDy Drybg
By BETHANY SUTTON
Tartari Staffwriter
An audience of all ages came to the 
Benedum this past Friday to ring in 
opening night of the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatres (PBT) annual holiday produc
tion of The Nutcracker.
Upon arriving at the recently reno
vated Benedum, I was awe-struck; its 
cathedral ceilings and brass chandeliers, 
Patrons in tuxedos and velvet gowns, 
and everything from dolls and orna
ments to hand carved, hand made Nut
crackers piled high on a table in the
Over 100 local children, as well as 
members of the PBTs internationally 
acclaimed troupe, make up the cast. 
This includes both students of the PBT 
School and pre-professional students 
from the Scheneley High School Pro
gram, all chosen as the result of an 
extensive audition with PBT School Di
rector David Holladay.
These children make a commitment 
that they must see through from the 
first rehearsal to the last performance, 
even when the going gets tough, re
marked Artistic Director Patricia Wilde. 
Rehearsal begins the day after audi-
all day at the theater for both matinee 
and evening shows.
As the curtain rose, it became clear 
that The Nutcracker is indeed a ballet 
for children first. Or, as George 
Balanchine, who choreographed the clas
sic 1954 version for the New York City 
Ballet on which PBTs production is 
based, once said, The Nutcracker at our 
theater is for children young and old. 
That is, for children and for adults who 
are children at heart... In every person 
the best, most important part is that 
which remains from his childhood.
A----------0------------------------------ ---------*_________________j_________ Indeed, the entire ballet is set from
iobby like gifts under the tree combined tions, and continues every weekend un- the perspective of a child, Mary, who is 
to create an irreplaceable holiday glow, til the curtain goes up. Once the perfor- given a nutcracker by her mysterious 
*ne inside of the theater was equally mances begin, many ofthe children must Uncle Drosselmeyer during her parents 
unpressive. participate every night, often spending holiday party. She sneaks downstairs
later that night to play with her new 
doll, and is transported into a magical 
world where the nutcracker becomes 
life-size and the adult dancers perform 
for her and her prince (who actually 
turns out to be her Uncles nephew) in 
the Land of Snow and Kingdom of 
Sweets.
The artistry of British designer Peter 
Farmers set and costumes was spec
tacular. It took Russian tailors three to 
four days to make each tuxedo for the 
parents in Act I, as well as 
Drosele.meyers wine-colored cape and 
coat, and the PBT Costume Shop spent 
more than 70 hours in creating the seven 
unique rag dolls in the party scene.
The 25 pounds of flame-proof white 
confetti, 150 pounds of dry ice, and 4,440
tiny twinkling lights used during each 
performance are just a few of the many 
special effects which make this produc
tion so awe-inspiring for both children 
and adults.
The flowering silk tent which slowly 
grows in height during Act II is unique 
as a centerpiece in the Kingdom of 
Sweets; no other company in the world 
features such a backdrop in their pro
duction of the ballet.
Tiffany Knoll, a sophomore at the 
University of Pittsburgh who has stud
ied ballet for the past 10 years, said, 
The technical superiority of the danc
ers amazes me. Out of all the produc
tions of The Nutcracker Ive seen, none 
has impressed me quite as much as the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatres.

---------------------------------------------------

k,xnsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggf
Junior FwCaCrFfFp mfrybgF
By BELL VANDERMARK
Tartan Staffwriter
The new Ivan Reitman movie 
Junior was actually enjoyable. 
Yes, I said enjoyable. Once you 
look past the fact that Arnold 
Schwarzenegger not only gets 
pregnant but also dresses up in 
drag, this becomes a rather pleas
ant movie.
The movie stars Arnold 
Schwarzenegger as the 
stuffy Dr. Alex Hess, 
who only cares about his 
work, Danny Devito as 
the carefree Larry 
Aberrgast, Hess part
ner, and Emma Thomp
son as the lost-in-space 
scientist who takes over 
Schwarzeneggers lab at 
the college where hes 
working.
There are two wonder
ful supporting charac
ters who have appear
ances throughout the 
movie. One is the ever 
charming Pamela Reed, 
who plays Devitos ex- 
wife, who also happens 
to be pregnant. The other is the 
stern-looking Frank Langella, 
who plays Noah Barnes, the ad
ministrator of the University 
Labs.
The gist of the movie is simple; 
Devito and Schwarzenegger are 
working on a medication that will 
prevent miscarriages.
When they present the idea to 
the FDA, they are turned down 
flat. Langella gives their lab space 
to Thompson. Schwarzenegger 
decides to go back to Europe and 
start another project.
Sounds like a cut-and-dried 
plot, right? Wrong.
Devito has a Canadian firm that
ence. All they need to do is carry movies and pairing old co-stars
the embryo through the first tri
mester of pregnancy to glean 
enough data to sell the drug.
The complications, and there 
are quite a few, begin popping up 
almost immediately. First the 
pair need an egg to complete the 
experiment. They steal one from 
Thompsons character, with 
whom they are now sharing lab 
space.
Bruce McBroom
Is that a Terminator in your pocket, or are you just 
pregnant? Arnold Schwartzenegger and Danny 
Devito create a man-bourn child for the love of their 
science in the new Ivan Reitman film, Junior.
The plot only gets wackier from really knows his stuff.
together. Danny Devito and 
Arnold Schwarzenegger were co- 
stars in Twins. Schwarzenegger 
and Reed worked together on 
Kindergarten Cop. Langella re
cently starred in Dave, another 
Reitman comedy for which Th
ompson was almost cast.
The only surprise in the cast 
seems to be Emma Thompson. 
The usually serious stage actress 
sheds her intelligent per
sona to play a scientist 
who is hopelessly lost 
both inside and outside 
of the lab. The direction 
itself, however, is excel
lent. Reitman has come a 
long way since his early 
days as a director when 
we received such garbage 
as Cannibal Girls in 
1973.
One nice thing about 
the movie was the fact 
that the boom mike al
ways seemed to operate 
so expertly. I believe that 
the credit for this goes 
solely to Ravi Bruce the 
boom operator. The man
there. Now dont get me wrong, I 
dont believe for an instant that 
any of this could happen, but, 
hey, if I followed that philosophy, 
Id have never seen Star Wars 
either. So ifyou buy into the whole 
pregnancy joke, you get a really 
funny movie with some utterly 
hilarious moments.
For instance, Schwarzenegger, 
who by now is almost seven weeks 
pregnant, is standing in the lab 
and for no reason whatsoever just 
decides to tell anyone who cares, 
Boy, my nipples are sensitive. 
As if that wasnt odd enough, 
the comments that follow will 
will be willing to back the drug if keep you laughing even if its
they had some kind of data say
ing that it would work. Not being 
able to legally give it to a woman, 
Devito convinces Amie to become 
pregnant all in the name of sci-
only at the sheer absurdity of the 
whole thing.
Ivan Reitman, who directed the 
film, has once again captured 
magic by going back through past
If youre thinking about going 
to see this movie and cant decide 
if youll be able to look past the 
fact that Schwarzenegger is preg
nant, then go just to see the excel
lent boom work by Ravi. Im sure 
hell appreciate your praise and 
gratitude.
Hes so down to earth and he 
doesnt get a swelled head like 
some of the other so-called ex
perts in Hollywood. This man is 
a gem and it makes the movie 
twice as enjoyable knowing that 
Reitman and the producers chose 
Ravi to do the work that he is 
famous for.
Final recommendation: go see 
the movie, but dont take the kids. 
If little Johnny thinks there is 
even the slightest chance that it 
could happen to him, hell be 
scarred for life.
Artists commended
COMIC BOOK CHRONICLES
by Jason Andracki
Since this will be the final installment of 
Comic Book Chronicles for 1994, this is a perfect 
time for a wrap up and pseudo-awards shindig.
Best Ongoing Series  Without a doubt, 
this has to be John Byrnes Next Men. Over the 
past three years, Byrne has woven an intricate, 
character driven story that gets better with 
every issue.
While other artists are putting all the bells 
and whistles they can into their art, Byrne has 
trimmed his style down and placed focus on 
more important details. I can actually identify 
all the characters of this book without relying on 
fancy costumes.
Runners Up: Superman: Man of Steel, Shadow 
of the Bat. Both of these are head and shoulders 
above the rest, of the Superman and Batman 
lines.
Best Limited Series  Shadow Empires: 
Faith Conquers. Chris Moeller has produced the 
best original science fiction story since Walt 
Simonsens Star Stammers.
Moeller provides extensive background forhis 
universe in this limited series that hopefully 
will be continued. Also, Moellers painting gives 
the characters much personality and emotion. 
Runners Up: Danger Unlimited and Babe. Both 
of these limited series brought back the joy that 
initially got me into comics. I hope to see more of 
them, too.
Best WriterThis was clearly the easiest to 
decide  John Byrne. With John Byrnes Next 
Men, Dariger Unlimited, and Babe, plus the 
Action Comics annual, how can you dispute that 
he is the best?
Clearly, he is the only creator worthy to follow 
in the late, great Jack King Kirbys footsteps. 
Im eagerly looking forward to his Darkseid/ 
Galactus crossover.
Runners Up: Peter David for his revamping of 
one of my old favorites, Aquaman, and Alan 
Davis (ClanDestine), for making me buy a Mar
vel comic again.
Best Artist  This was a little tougher to
decide, but just on consistency and a large 
output, Im going with John Byrne again. Hes 
no Stephen Platt (thankfully), filling every panel 
with detail after detail, but he has the most 
realistic portrayal of people and commonplace 
things.
Runners Up: Mike Mignola was some stiff 
competition with his beautiful work in HellBoy 
and the covers for many of DCs annual this 
year. (He also won for most times mentioned in 
this column.) Jim Lee is the only Image founder 
that I can tolerate, and Ive been a fan since his 
days on PunisherWar Journal. But since hes on 
hiatus now, he was out of the running.
Best Inker  Ill have to go with the legend, 
Dick Giordano. Ill always treasure his work 
with various Superman and Batman books. I 
just wish hed take over on one of the those books 
regularly rather than just as a guest, like with 
Superman #96.
Runners Up: Brad Vancata was great on 
Aquaman but he seems to have disappeared. 
Also.MarkFarmeris helping Alan Davis regain 
some of their glory from Excalibur with 
ClanDestine.
Best Graphic Novel  P. Craig Russells 
second volume of The Fairy Tales of Oscar 
Wilde.
Hey, its one of the top recommended gift 
books for children this holiday season. Buy it for 
a kid you love. Runners Up: Castle of the Bat. 
Tales to Astonish.
Best Black & White Book  Bone by Jeff 
Smith. Dont be skeptical about all the hype, it 
is that good. Runners Up: Milk & Cheese, Dark 
Horse Presents.
Best New Series  ClanDestine which isnt 
as good as Excaliber, but itll do. Runners Up: 
Aquaman, Judge Dredd.
Best Publisher  Dark Horse. No one even 
compares, so there are no runners up. Their 
Star Wars books, as well as others like Badger, 
plus their publisher credit for the Legend guys 
almost givesthis company an unfair advantage.
Well, there you have my picks. It would be 
nice if everyone agrees, but its a lot more 
interesting if you disagree with me, so let me 
know what you think!
JasonAndracki, sophomore professional writ
ing major, would like to be very Politically 
inCorrect and say Merry Christmas and Happy 
Chanukah to all who will listen. If this offended 
anyone, IU have an even merrier Christmas.THE TARTAN
fmDfFm[] 
SfzfhkfC 7 
4^4? ah
Ibf xgwmfDg WfDgfCp duuh NN/ 
i Fg[AA hfhkfCF z[D lugf"
smrguCPrDPWbrfA 
M[D[yrDy smrguC 
afvF smrguC
' Q .v
uCwh smrguC 
xauCgF smrguC 
f[gwCfF smrguC 
SrlfCFruDF smrguC 
W[fDm[C smrguC 
iCg smrguC 
obugu smrguC

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfkuu
Paradise lost
I By PAUL TABACHNECK
S Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
\ Movie: Trapped In Paradise 
I Starring: Dana Carvey, Nicho- 
! las Cage, Jon Lovitz
I I was sick. I was tired. I wanted 
nothing more than a bed and a 
bottle of NyQuil.
I was having the time of my life. 
! This movie puts Dana Carvey 
and Jon Lovitz together as two 
brothers who just got out of prison 
I on parole.
[ Carvey is a diagnosed klepto
maniac, and Lovitz is a patho- 
| logical liar. They get picked up 
by their oldest brother, played by 
Nicholas Cage, and they convince 
j him into going on a journey from 
their warm, snug, minimum- 
wage life in New York, to Para
dise, Pennsylvania.
A small-town bank carrying 
$750,000 and no security awaits 
I them, ripe for the picking. They 
get the money and decide to leave.
[ The problem is, they cant.
Their car is run off the road, 
and theres tons of snow every
where, as well as a ton of friendly 
I townsfolk who are all willing to 
take in a stranger off the street.
As the night passes on, they 
find themselves getting to know 
the very people they robbed, and 
i their consciences start to ache.
But will they ever get out of Para
dise? Will they evade the law? 
What about those wacky crimi
nals that break out to find them 
and get the money back? What 
about their mother, who is taken 
hostage by said criminals? What 
about the foxy daughter of the big 
criminal?
Most importantly, can the citi
zens of Paradise find their Christ
mas back?
The only thing that really bites 
me about this movie is the bla
tant use of formula all over the 
place; theres a lot of character 
characters, the kind that are just 
cut out and put in the middle of 
the script, and it makes some of 
the wrap-up just a little predict
able.
In its defense, however, I actu
ally liked it. Garveys character is 
hilarious, and JonLovitzs trade
mark style is recognizable from 
frame one.
Cage plays an excellent straight 
man, and their mother, played by 
Florence Stanley (My Two Dads, 
Night Court), was a terrific 
smartass, despite the fact that 
her character was just as much a 
formula as many of the others.
Its a great wacky flick, but not 
one to see if youre a plot stickler. 
If youre sick and need a cheer- 
up, though, I would recommend 
this movie in an instant.
orzz[ C[gfF bryb
viewers
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Staffwriter
While watching six short 
plays in about two hours may 
sound like a chore to some, City 
Theatre made it more like a 
pleasant diversion with their 
production of David Ives All In 
the Timing-, a sort of cerebral, 
fast-paced, and fairly funny 
sketch comedy show. Starring 
three actors from Chicagos 
Northlight Theatre and two lo
cals, this quick and interesting 
piece was less detailed and se
rious than last seasons City 
Theatre fare, but still a rousing 
good time.
From Trotsky to brave new 
languages, David Ives moves 
through a series of odd and in
teresting ideas that are full of 
wit and physical antics; For 
example, the fourthplay, Philip 
Glass Buys a Loaf of Bread, is a 
farce of avant-garde theatre
that forces the actors to chant 
single words to make simple sen
tences, using only a few phrases 
such as "Do you know that
Wbrcfe .The cast, a versatile group, 
played their various characters 
with sin-prising grace and ease. 
Douglas Rees and Kate Young 
shone as Mr. and 
Mrs. Trotsky and 
Joe Depsey, aSec- 
ond City member, 
played a fairty 
amusing chimp. 
Also featuring 
Chicagos Jimmy 
Ortlieb and Kris
ten: Swansonjthe 
play was well- 
rounded, and,
____________ above all, funny.
 , .   ^ , TomJefferson This serieg of
Kristen Swanson (Left) and Joe Dempsey, . was a t 
togetherwlth a wide ensemble, amuse audiences , ,, ...
with City Theatres All In the Timing. enC0 and ;s gug]
woman? and Id like a loaf of gested fare if you are interested 
bread, as the basis for a slew of in professional performances. The 
unconnected ideas. Then imag- director, Brian Russell from the 
ine three monkeys typing into Northlight Theatre, pulled the 
eternity; and you have another cast together sharply and well. 
David Ives play Words, Words, The only complaints I have are
concerning the sound and the 
set. A far cry from the City 
Theatres usually detailed and 
well-constructed sets, the 
painted flats and mildly inter
esting perspectivesof this back
drop seemed uncreati ve, as well 
as the sound, which was a mess 
of synthesized piano and drums. 
However, the lack of sets does 
not take away from the story or 
the actors, and it still allows 
the comedy to shine through.
Ail In the Timing runs from 
November 30 to December IS 
and show times are Tuesday 
through Friday at 8 pm and 
Saturday at 5:30 and 9 pm. On 
Fridays and Saturdays, the 
ticket prices are $25 and on all 
other days $21; reduced prices 
are avaible 15 minutes before 
showtimes. Cali 432-CITY for 
more information, and have a 
nice time, because, as you know, 
comedy is all in the timing. 
Nyuk Nyuk.
King Stag fhau]F rh[yrD[gruD
THE PIZZA REVIEWS
by Jon Slenk and the Pizza Review Board
Vincents Pizza
This week we review pizza from Vincents Pizza Park on Forbes 
Ave, in Squirrel Hill. We had heard of Vincents from acquaintances 
before the Squirrel Hill franchise opened, and the general consensus 
was that the pizza was very good. After examining the pies we got, 
we would concur. They were, for the most part, excellent.
The pies came not in boxes, but wrapped in paper which was 
stapled to a cardboard base. I must say, I was somewhat flummoxed 
by this configuration of multiple layers of paper, but in the end, I 
prevailed and managed to get the pepperoni pie exposed. Phew!
The Pepperoni Pie
After opening the package, we took a look at the wonderfully 
aromatic pie. It was very large, considering that it was supposed to 
be a medium. It looked somewhat over cooked, which causes some 
trepidation on the part of at least one reviewer who doesnt like the 
cheese to be browned.
Still, the pepperoni chunks (yes, big, hunking, slabs of meat) 
looked good, if quite greasy (mmm ... grease!), and we each took a 
piece and began our gastronomic evaluations.
The crust was puffy and somewhat soft. It was good if you like that 
kind of crust, which not all of us do. If you are the kind of person who 
likes to gnaw on the crust edges of slices, youre in for a treat. The 
sauce was quite good, in a non-overpowering yet distinctly tomato- 
ey way. The cheese was plentiful and, over-cooking aside, was de- 
lish. Finally, the plentiful pepperoni was a welcome change to the 
few, anemic slices one finds on some other pies. Overall, a good pizza.
The Specialty
Another member of the Pizza Review Board opened the special 
pizza (with, I might note, significantly more aplomb than I could ever 
hope to muster,) which proved to be topped with sausage, mush
rooms and roasted red peppers. Mmm! Im salivating just writing 
about it! The sausage was generous, not the small kind that reminds 
one of rabbit excrement.
The mushrooms were fresh, which is always good, and the peppers 
were great. We should note that they werent the sweet variety, 
rather they were of the vinegary family. This isnt bad, just perhaps 
not what one would have expected.
I think we managed to eat only two or three pieces total, each, even 
though we were all starving. The pizzas are huge! They should keep 
you and yours fed for quite a while.
On another note, we chatted with a high government official 
(whose wish to remain anonymous we will honour) who apparently 
frequented the establishment in question, and who mentioned that 
I one may ask for extra toppings (although they give you quite a lot to 
j ^gin with) generally with no extra charge. Could be true.
The Numbers
; Crust: We gave a low score of 6 and a high of 8. 
i Sauce: 8s all round.
Cheese: The low score here is an 8, the high 9.
Pepperoni: Our numerical opinions ranged from 7 to 8.
Special: Here, we thought a low of 9 and a high of 10 was in 
i order.
j Conclusion
If we do some mental calculations to get an overall numerical 
I jating for these pies, we get: 8. One of the reviewers went so far as 
; 0 say that it was the best pizza they had ever had in da Burgh. Damn 
&od pizza, well worth any extra cash you might fork over for it. Wed 
Suggest, however, that since the pies were so large, you start with a 
i medium and work you way up from there.
By JON SLENK
Tartan Staffwriter
Play: King Stag
Group: Timespace Theatre Company 
in cooperation withThe Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts 
Admission: $8
This play is described as an Italian fairy 
tale, a fable of good, evil, love, hatred, re
venge, magical powers, and slapstick comedy. 
Inherent in such a play are themes of loyalty, 
honesty, justice, and heavenly powers  good 
child-raising stuff.
I arrived at the Center, parked, and then 
was directed into a part of the main building I 
never knew existed  downstairs, following 
the occasional sign, to the basement where, 
apparently, there is a theatre.
While waiting for the house to open, I sat 
down and perused the program. The first thing 
I noticed was that the production was quite 
large in terms of the number of actors in
volved, numbering eleven in all. They vary 
from CMU and University of Pittsburgh stu
dents to natives of Louisville, Kentucky, to a 
visiting actress from France (who attended 
drama school in Singapore). A diverse group, 
indeed.
At the back of the program was a quick 
description of the company: Timespace is a 
new theatre company in Pittsburgh, PA whose 
mission is to produce experimental (works 
that challenge theatrical conventions) and 
exploratory (A process by which artists in 
differing media can collaborate to establish a
common vocabulary) theatrical works. There 
you go.
Eventually the theatre opened. We walked 
in (Id like to note that the theatre, although 
down a small flight of stairs, is wheelchair 
accessible via a chair lift  as is, presumably, 
the entirety of the center.) to find, basically, a 
large hall of hardwood floor and steel beams. 
Not an inherently atmospheric room for a 
classical show.
Orange cables were strewn all about the 
white walls and ceiling to the fairly extensive 
lighting system. Again, not something I would 
think of being conducive to suspension of dis
belief. The stage consisted mostly of a large 
area of bare floor, and then a raised platform 
area in back.
The story began with a monologue by 
Cigolotti (David Hugar), a student of the ma
gician Durandarte (Matt Gaydos), describing 
King Deramo (Ben Moore) and his trusty advi
sor Tartaglia (Eric Andrews). Kind Deramo is 
given two magic secrets by Durandarte which 
are key to the development of the tale.... I 
wont spoil the secrets by telling you what they 
are.
The overall plot involves: the search for a 
wife by the King who, after beginning inter
views with any and all eligible females of the 
realm, has rejected several thousand candi
dates; the machinations of Tartaglia, driven 
by unrequited love and dreams of power; the 
unfolding of Durandartes predictions that his 
magical gifts to the King will be critical to the 
triumphant success of good over evil; and a 
variety of comedic subplots to keep things 
bouncing along.
Yes, I detect you thinking, but where 
does the damned title come from? Well, if 
I were to really explain it to you, Id have 
to give away one of the magical secrets, so 
I will only say that the title is not in 
reference to some kind of royal bachelor 
party.
At first, my reaction to the production 
was that it reminded me a lot of the best 
high school productions Ive seen. I felt a 
sense of overall detachment for quite a lot 
of the play; it seemed that the players 
were, for the most part, never fully in 
character, and that the set was just a bit 
too minimal to draw you into the world of 
kings and magic, treachery and true love.
Still, this could be due to my expecta
tions of a more elaborate production. Had 
I gone looking for more of an intimate 
production, where one can really feel like 
the play is being put on just for you, I think 
I would have been more satisfied.
After all, this is a fairy tale, not neces
sarily something one expects to develop 
full, three dimensional characters.
Not to detract from any of the other 
characters, but, I must say, I liked the 
parrot quite a lot. I thought it was the most 
subtly humorous character, if not the most 
dimensional.
So, in the end, if you go looking for fun, 
you can find it herein. Sit back and enjoy 
the nefarious evil character, the good and 
honest king, and the entanglements of 
everyones search for love.
Theres a just, even happy, ending for 
all!
d[j[Fgb[D [Cg fhau]F ju] rD CfafgrgruD
HRlj IfUKI U3
Even though they are cop
ies, there is always the plea
sure of trying: to analyze the 
differences of interpretation. I 
recognized many differences in 
the paintings from those in the 
original works.
The paintings have more de
tails and a brightness to them 
that make them real. As to the 
photomechanical reproduc
tion, the image seems to be 
stuck to the piece of paper.

>/
 " w &
bomehow tne cop- and human ngures tnere is tar 
ies seem to have a moretoconsiderthanjustwhat 
greater effect, a is seen, 
greater liveliness Is it Folk or Fine art? Are the 
that does not exist new works inferior because 
in the original there is no originality?Do these 
works. art works deceive you? Is there 
The new deriva- any skill involved? Are these 
tive works have works capable or worthy of an 
more appeal than exhibition? Perhaps, it is time 
those that inspired to check out the fifth floor of 
the artist. In these Hunt Library and answer the
Damodar Gurjar
Rajasthan works often exercise In simplicity.
simple artworks of many questions that may enter 
plants, animals, you.
Need a Friend?
Coping with an unplanned pregnancy?
Turn your crisis into a plan.
Licensed
Agency
Free counseling, support 
& personal attention
Call Today734-2662
hea 1-800-BETHANY
WS
IdiSsd
VISIT A NEW KIND OF MUSIC STORE...
Alternative, blues, jazz, imports, pop/rock, reggae, ska, 
techno, world plus 50 other categories...
10.000 new and used CD's,
hear any CD before you buy it,
low prices, buy or trade program, 
cheap large posters,
and the best deals in the area.
N(/ xuwgb WC[ry xgCffg 
T[U[Dm 
6*7P66N6
Mcor\day' Saturday
ln Frl^ 11 am to 5pm10am to 6pm

---------------------------------------------------

? All Work. No Play.? All Play. No Work. 
m All Work. All Play.
Get the best of both worlds with a Microsoft internship.
On Campus Interviews
Full-time & Summer Technical Interviews M
January 23-24, 1995 
See Career Center for details.
Sign-ups due by 12/7/94.
Microsoft is an Equal Opportunity Employer and supports workforce diversity.
Microsoft
01994 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

---------------------------------------------------

nsi ndeSdp l rdepitFi aiuuDp l c .iTiyWie hggfkhw
Thursday, December 8
Fanny and Alexander
Not only is this film directed by Ingmar Bergman, 
but one of the major characters is named after a 
body part! What more could you want?! Maybe if 
both of the characters were named after body parts, 
like Fanny and Nose, then Id really like it. I mean 
that would be great.
This film is all about a family in Sweden that 
moves quite grandly through the trials and tribula
tions of life and love. Bergman won an Oscar for 
Best Foreign Film for this one, so its a pretty big 
deal. The plot is secondary, dearies, because this is 
Bergman. This aint your daddys art film, big boy.
Starring Pernilla Allwin, Ewa Froling, Erland 
Josephson, and a whole bunch of other people with 
extra or missing consonants in their names, this 
movie is super-fly TNT. See it with someone whos 
filmed in black and white.
At 5, 8:30 pm, and midnight.
Friday, December 9
The Client
While this movie is no Pulp Fiction, it still has its 
good points. Starring Susan Sarandon and this 
little kid named Brad Renfro, this film is all about 
this little kid who sees a murder and is defended by 
Sarandon in court from nasty mafia types and a bad 
lawyer.
Based on a John Grisham novel, this has just 
enough pulp to count as sort of pulpy fiction. The 
pulp of the movie appears between the wonderful 
Sarandon and new comer Brad Renfro, and the 
chemistry is no fiction, by any stretch of the imagi
nation.
Though this is not a true story, and therefore 
fiction, the gripping courtroom drama will keep you 
glued to your seat as if your fanny were stuck there 
by some pulpy substance. See it with someone who 
has a background in law, so he or she can keep 
making little remarks about the mistakes in the 
movie.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, December 10
Natural Born Killers
Starring Woody Harrelson, Robert Downey Jr., 
and Juliette Lewis, this film is not an animated 
movie about lions, but tis certainly a king among 
violent films, and I aint lion. Directed by Oliver 
Stone, evidently this is a commentary about the 
horrors of the media and a tirade on desensitiza
tion. Or maybe its just a nice story about a son who 
follows in his fathers paw-steps, but I doubt that.
Violent and all funked up, this movie is disturb
ing and wacky. In fact, Harrelson and Lewis wacky 
a lot of people during the course of the movie. They 
also shoot them.
If its horrible, its disturbing, and it hurts to 
watch, its gotta beNatural Born Killers. See it with 
someone who knows a lot about anatomy, so he or 
she can tell you which artery just got gouged open. 
Pulp. Fiction. Fanny.
At 5, 7, 9,11pm, and lam.
Sunday, December 11
Fire Maidens from 
Outer Space
This is the last DH2210 film of the semester, and 
evidently they wanted go out with a bang, or down 
in flames, as the title suggests. OK, here it is: guys 
go up in a space ship. They land on a moon of 
Jupiter. They find lots of women who want to get a 
piece. Hoo-yah, you got yourself one helluvah film..
Directed by some cat named Cy Young, this movie 
was made in 1955, and evidently, allowed Cy to 
exploit young women in search of movie roles. And 
exploit he did. But its not all that bad, and theres 
no nudity or other bad things, so it should be kind 
of funny to see a bunch of crazy kids hamming it up 
on-screen. And who knows, you may even see a 
fanny! See it with someone... hell... I dont care who 
you see it with.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
c[m hulrfF kCrybgfD burm[]F
File 13
charming little film called Christ
mas Slay (A theme I will be touch
ing on later).
So, it is up to Ernest and his 
runaway jailbait sidekick (possi
bly the only runaway j ailbait side
kick I have ever seen in a Christ
mas film) to save Christmas by
John Hughes remake of Miracle 
on 34th Street is now playing. 
Help John cash in on his latest 
money making scheme and go 
see the cute little kid! Its des
tined to be a hit, just like Home 
Alone, Home Alone 2, Curly Sue, 
Dennis the Menace, and Babysby Carey Clevenger putting on stupid costumes and Day Out. So go see it! Hell be glad 
1^HHHBHB trying to make us laugh at the you did.
Ho ho ho! Its that time of the incredibly zany, madcap, and When I think of Christmas, I
year again, when all of us 
forget how wretched and 
miserable our lives are by 
buying things for our loved 
ones that we know theyll 
most likely shove into a 
box and hide in their clos
ets.
Whats that, you say?
Dont have the Christmas 
spirit? Well, fear not, oh 
faithful reader! Just run 
down to your local video 
store and rent one of these 
babies, and youll be in the 
spirit in no time flat! Lets 
see what ol Santa dragged out of 
the trash and has dumped into 
our stockings this year!
Lets dispense with the good, 
wholesome family fare first:
The funniest thing about Ernest 
Saves Christmas isnt the tremen
dously intellectual plot, or the 
hysterically funny dialogue, or 
even the inspired comic acting of 
virtuoso thespian Jim Varney. 
No, I would argue that the funni
est thing about this film is that 
anyone would bother making this 
movie, much less putting it on 
video.
The basic plot is this: Santa 
Claus is thinking about retiring, 
and is going to pass the torch to 
some new blood. However, things 
dont go as smoothly as Saint Nick 
would have liked (the most amaz
ing thing about this is that Ernest 
has nothing to do with the mix- 
up), and his intended successor is 
more interested in filming a
Shelley Gazin
Look, Mom, I'm really funny! Check It out... Hey 
VERN! HAHAAAA!!!! Isnt that great? Jim Varney 
is just one of the wasters of holiday film.
think of Christmas trees, 
mistletoe, stockings, and 
manical killers dressed in 
Santa suits. Thats right! 
What are the colors of 
Christmas? Box office dol
lar green and bloody crim
son red! So lets move on to 
horror....
The first film in this 
genre is the all-time clas
sic, Silent Night, Deadly 
Night. This movie has it 
all: parents who leave 
their young son alone for a 
few moments with his
sitcom-ish situations that the mentally deranged grandfather; 
characters constantly find them- a Santa who enjoys robbing li- 
selves involved in. quor stores, killing, and raping;
Ithinkmyroomatesaiditbest: nuns; lots of pointless sex and
Mr. Varney certainly thinks that 
he is funny. He apparently also 
thought that this movie was 
worth watching. Oh well, rest 
assured that someday he too will 
achieve the incredible comic tal
ents possessed by the likes of 
Jerry Lewis.
Also worthy of note, although 
only briefly, is Santa Claus: The 
Movie, starring Dudley Moore as 
an elf, and John Lithgow as*an 
evil business man. I think the 
whole movie is some sort of meta
phor for drug use: Lithgow spends 
the film pursuing the secrets of 
the Magic Candy Canes that 
allow Santas reindeer to fly, only 
to float into orbit after ingesting 
too many of them.
Before I move onto the good 
stuff, let me also mention that
nudity; Linnea Quigley; nuns; a 
deaf priest, who becomes a dead 
priest at the hands of an inept 
deputy; bizarre Christmas- 
themed murders (impaled on deer 
antlers, strangled with Christ
mas lights, et cetera); nuns; an 
ending that assures you that 
there will be a part two; and a 
Catholic orphanage. There are 
also a few nuns.
In other words, theres a little 
bit of something for everyone. 
Clearly a film for the whole fam- 
ily.
But the fun doesnt stop there! 
In Silent Night, Deadly Night II, 
its time for Billys little brother 
Ricky to take up where his brother 
left off. I think if you sat down 
with a stopwatch you would real
ize that the entire plot of the film
is introduced and resolved in the 
course of about 40 mintues, with 
the other 50 or so being mostly 
flashbacks to the first movie.
There are a lot of classic bits in 
this film: my favorite sequence is 
when Ricky procures a police re
volver and goes on a walk-by 
shooting, causing a car to ex
plode with one bullet to the grille.
The people responsible for these 
films apparently know that you 
cant get too much of a good thing. 
Ricky is back again in Silent 
Night, Deadly Night Part III: 
Better Watch Out!
Although he was shot dead at 
the end of the second film, a doc
tor has managed to surgically 
re-form his brain, which is now 
encased in a piece of transparent 
plexiglass.
Ricky bascially stumbles 
around through the duration of 
the film with what looks like a 
plastic spaghetti strainer on his 
head, with a few electronic gizmos 
hanging off th back. (The funni
est sequence has to be just after 
he escapes from the hospital: he 
walks down a rather busy street 
in his hospital gown, brain ex
posed through the plastic casing, 
and no one seems to notice.) 
Rickys mission is to find the blind 
girl he has been telepathically 
communicating with.
So, until later, Merry Christ
mas (or Happy Hanukkah) and 
Happy New Year! See you next 
semester.
Carey Clevenger is a junior cre
ative writing major. You might 
hear some reindeer on your roof
top, or Jack Frost on your win
dowsill. But if someones climb
ing down your chimney, youd 
better load your gun and shoot to 
kill! Weird Al Yankovic, 
Christmas at Ground Zero. 
Good gift idea: The Bare Facts 
Video Guide.
Fanny and Alexander zuhfF gu WMj
By WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
It rarely dawns on people how hard it is to 
actually make a film, especially if it is big 
enough to not be the kind youd make with a 
guerrilla crew. It is even harder to make 
good films, mainly because good ideas are 
the first to be rejected. Working with a 
number of people doesnt help either.
So, once in a while, some directors find 
theyve lost their patience and they just go 
on and retire, some examples are Antonioni, 
Kieslowski (rather recently), and Swedish 
cine-meister extraordinaire Ingmar 
Bergman. Bergmans good-bye to film before 
retiring to the world of theater was Fanny 
and Alexander, an extraordinarily beautiful 
tapestry of memories, dreams, and some 
good ol magic.
The film begins and ends with parties. At 
the beginning we get to meet the extended 
family of Alexander and his sister Fanny, a 
delightful bunch of eccentrics who, in the 
majority, just love life big time. Alexanders 
father is the director of a theater company
and both his wife and his mother are renowned 
actresses. Shortly after Christmas, Alexanders 
father passes away and his mom marries a 
priest.
Fannys and Alexanders lives then turn into 
a Dickensian mode and plenty of tricks, ghosts 
and even a few miracles find their way in. This 
would be an offensively short and simplistic 
synopsis, but Fanny and Alexander belongs to 
the precious genre of film that relies on the 
beauty of detail. Also, the film is structured in 
episodic form and, being quite autobiographi
cal, at moments it feels like small vignettes of 
memories.
For this, his last film, Bergman seemed to 
abandon the nihilism and philosophical de
spair that seized his previous and most fa
mous works (The Silence, Persona) and to 
make a sentimental celebration of life. How
ever, this being Bergman, we know it is not 
just that. This film can actually be considered 
as two different films, and the story as Bergman 
tells it has many layers, almost too numerous 
to mention here.
There are plenty of echoes in this film which 
is partly a family saga and partly a ghost story.
Part of the echoes come from some of 
Bergmans own previous films. Vergerus, 
the priest, resembles the authoritative vil
lain of Torment and Alexanders mom em
bodies the Bergman woman, half virgin and 
half seductress. There are also references 
from the nostalgic atmosphere on Wild 
Strawberries and the gothic myths from 
Hour of the Wolf. Although Fanny and 
Alexander is not at all a self-homage, it is 
definitely the perfect farewell from Bergman. 
He even manages to throw in a nod to the 
Bard and to Dickens which is perhaps an 
homage to storytelling itself.
The film is thus a big gathering as well, 
not only of people, but of stories. And 
Bergmans good-bye feels more like a transi
tion. He seems to remind us how beauty is 
immortal and how the magic of art saves 
us from the occasionally bleak reality. Thus 
the closing line of the movie (from A Dream 
Play) is more than appropriate: Anything 
can happen, all is possible and probable.... 
On an insignificant foundation of reality, 
imagination spins out and weaves new pat
terns.
oxPopmli
V oice of tLe PeopL
perdirsymfan! PIPP!!!
Tartan editors and staff, 
thank you for everything and 
good luck. You were all great! 
 Andrew, ex-E-i-C.
Dave,
Sorry, please try again!
A - congrats on a hard job 
well done - but, like, go take a 
bath or something, Babe :-)
Rebecca -
Gee, youre not only short but 
boy are you OLD!!!
Okay Chintan, shove him in 
the corner!
Uh, that doesnt look like 
Palatino. Its Helvetica!
Opti = one huge Farmer 
Brown problem that will 
detrimine the rest of your
life!
Leo, your mom called.
PRE-VICTORY PARTY!!!!!!!!
Yellow Rose:
She loves me, 
she loves me not...
J,P, & S: Sorry about the crazy 
glue/door thingy. I wont do it 
again ... not til next break 
anyway.
-M
Youre a dork.
Tina,
I think of you being gone and 
am saddened. However, I am 
fortunate to have you in my 
life. Love.
Little Mermaid-
Would you like to take a dip
in my ocean?
ham: oh what a burden
little bear
little bear
you are my
little bear
please stop smoking crack ... 
i love you!
steve- you will always be my 
Big mermaid, why dont you 
show me some tail?
hey joe s. with the red hair: 
you are the best guy, hows- 
about-a-piece of my y.i. pie
hey BoBo get out of the head
lights!
Cheers to the men of Donner 
who moved the red Triumph! 
It looks much better on the 
sidewalk.
Congrats to all booth chairs 
on their selections, carnival 
will be amazing this year. 
Keep up the good work!
Especially look out for the 
Smurfs and Fat Albert - they 
will be incredible - as usual!!!!! 
Eric, what a way to leave
with a BIG BANG!!
Times are in favor of forgiv
ing and moving. Lets have 
dinner.
Ahh, the vain nescience of 
the ignorant fool who knows 
not the idiocy of the garbage 
he spews.
Has your soul been suffi
ciently trampled by the time 
you have spent at that ridicu
lously shallow insititution ?
Hey buddy, you been eating 
them ?
Naw, Ive been shoving em 
up my ASS !!!
WAIT, you mean Chintan ... 
okay, were definitely going 
out for sushi then!!!
Come now .... enough 
floccianaucinihilipilification.
Zeppelin quote of the week: 
I havent had, lord, my right 
mind, since my riders been 
gone.
Hey, Doofy! Youre 
doofiest of all doofs.
the

---------------------------------------------------

M
 your instruments! Beginners are welcome. For Ruoti,NancyChesney,DavidL.Early,DanFrezza, Easter seals will use the proceeds from the event
more information, call 242-4597. and Maggie Stewart. General admission tickets to support its programs and services for children
are $12. Sudentjmd senior citizen tickets are $8. and adults with disabilities in your community :n,
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic will be Call^eJtternftbnlPoetryForumat621-9893. that they may lead mor rewarding lives. Ifyou
Prekop + Co., a three-dimensional exhibit by performing Monday atthe Carnegie Music Hall at ^P*.)' have any questions, please call 281-7244.
Martin Prekop, will be'on display through Decem- 8 pm. Admission is $5 for CMU students, faculty, Pon|gpigte f^Pcdro Tamen and Nano
ber 21 at the Hewlett Gallery. For more informa- and 3taff and $4 for senior citizens. JudfMnrill reps'poems in Portuguese on Operation NatVeT&int 1994 wjl take place
tion, call 268-3618. WedeBdgfe.atg:pm at {he Carnegie Lecture Hall, atthe AdamsMarkHotel, City Avenue and Monu-
Brass Quintet Recital will be performed on General- admission n%l 2. Student and senior ment Rad, in Philadelphia, on December 27-28
Places in the Sun, by Graper Pasiski and Tuesday at the Mellon Institute Auditorium at 8 citmt admission is $8. Group discounts are from 9 am-i pm. No pre-regiBtration necessary.
Pickering Zimbicki, will be showing at the Studio pm. Admission is free. availablfTFornroreinformation, call the Interna- No admission fee ($1 fee for the NT Employer
Gallery through December 31. Gallery hours are tional Poetry Forum at 621-9893. Handbook). Bring20 copies ofyotfrresuffle. More
Tuesday-Saturday from 11 am-5 pm. The CMU Contemporary Ensemble will be details and an Opportunities Index are available
playing on Thursday at the Alumni Concert Hall Help celebrate the season of giving! Donate in the Career Center Library-Job Fair binder.
A Little Princess, presented by the Playhouse at 8 pm. Free Admission. toys and/or money (in the form of checks) to the
Jr. Childrens Theatre Company, will be playing 1994 Spirit Toy Drive from November 30-Decem- DET T/^TAXT
at the Point Park College Playhouse, 222 Craft CFA Holiday Concert featuring the Carnegie ber 9. Donations should be placed in bins around ....mw-H III "i un.............. KcLilljR 111
Avenue, from December 3-18 and January 7-22. Mellon Philharmonic Orchestra, Concert Choir, campus or dropped off at Spirit House. For more
Performances are held onSaturdays at 11 am and and Repertory Chorus, will be on Friday at the information, contact Shannon Gibney at sg4q or
2:30 pm, Sundays at 2:30 pm. Tickets are $6, CB'AFoyer at noon. The program features Gloria 687-4058. s The CMU Muslim Students Association con-
available at the Point Park College Playhouse ; In xlsis Deo (Cantata 191) by J.S. Bach and * ducts midday prayer at 1:40 pm in the Student
Box Office, or by phone with VISA/MasterCard Carols of the Season.nFVee admission. Refresh- Th^^aMarid Re^ew is accepting submissions Center 224 every day, from Mndy through Fri-
($1 service fee per total credit card order) by ments will be served. If you have questions, ^pna^^'.^/Sprjilg^lSiStissue. Fiction, po- day. We also have study circle on Saturdays at the
calling 621-4445. please call 268-2349. etiy, an^rtwrk ca\he3m^othe Editors; to same time and place. All are invited. Email
.. Box6168;49(pForlfevfi;;Pitt4>rgh,PA15217. msa@andrew.cmu.du for more information.
The Night Before Christmas, presented by the Electronic & Computer Munie Concert wilP Trtdude letter withy our name and the
Playhouse Dance Theatre, will be presented at be playing on Friday at the Alumni Concert Hall titleSffif the works do not put Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 Bigelow
the Point Park College Playhouse, from Decem- at 8 pm. Free Admission. ^aMmijKame on the work^tnemselves. The dead- Blvd., holds five daily prayers, as well as Friday
ber 8-18 on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday .jMtfe'-'feirBiAmissions^.BeCcg^ff: 15,1994. For Prayers at 12,pm. Contact 682-5555 for more
evenings at 8 pm and on Sundays at 2 pm. Tickets Regent Theatre presents a seasonal celebratioi further information, contact Etigne Kuo (681- information on weekly study circles and other
are $8 and $10, on sale at the Playhouse Box featuring Paul Winter Consort, Bela Fleck & orlSara Barton (862-2812 or sb65). activities.
Office "i by calling 621-44B With VISA Flcttones and Trio Globo on Friday at 8 pm This
MasterCard. Senior citizens and students receive even will be stage at East Liberty Presbyterian Vmunteesfttl Tt Office ofntemational Educa- Bible Study will be hosted by Tech House
a half-price discount. Group rates are available. Church located at the corners of Penn and South tionTsBJ tlffi Qjdlii'famads organization are (Roselawn 15) every Sunday evening at 8 pm A!!
Highland Avenues. Advance tickets are available coordinating a ctnturSTexchange between Ameri- are invited. For mor information, please call
Opportunity for Artists! The HMett Gallery at all TicketMaster ticket centers or by phone at cans and international or transnational students 268-2484.
is accepting proposals for it|tolB95i-96 season. 323-1919. and scholars. Volunteers are needed for Holiday
Site-specific, collaborative, and multi-disciplin- Homestay, a program where Americans invite The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates
ary projects in science, visual, and p&fejjfhing University of Pittsburgh Mens Glee Club intemationalstudentsndscholarstotheirhomes Mass daily on campos at 12:30 pm in Student
arts enjoy a special w^Itome. inapplication 105th Annual Fall Concert will be performing on forameal.orovrnightstayduringThanksgiving CenterRoom224,MondaythroughFriday. Week-
forms and additional;.^format^^CTtact' PWa^. Sundayat6pmatthFrickFineArtsAditnum or Winter Recess. Ifyoii'can volunteer your tim end Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am and 8 pm
Fallaux at the Hewlett Gallery, College of Fin at the University of Pittsburgh. Admission is free and home to share your cultur with others, every Sunday in Posner Hall. For more informa-
Arts, #111, Cafnegie Mellon University, arid open to the public. contact the Office of International Education at tion, call the Newman Oratory Center at 681-
Pittsburgh. PA 1521 :-38ii0 or call 2d8 3877 268-3520 or email fsadv0iandrew.cmu.edu 3181
Deadline is December 9, ;94. The Jew With Horns avant-garde klezmer
ti festival will take place at Rodef Shalom Temple, Easter Seal Annual Volleyball Marathon will Hillels Jewish UniversityCenter,4551 Forbes
TheForbesGalleryhoststhe2ndAoual Juried rath and Morewood Avenues, on Sunday at 8 pm. take place on January 21, 22, and 23 at the Avenue, atop Cafe Arabica, celebrates Shabbat
2d Show from December' 6-1. ^cptbnvSuP1 On the bill are New Yorks Hassidic New Wave Y.M.C. A in downtown Pittsburgh. You can sign with good food, good friends, and good times at 6
announcement of wmnferfi will fmteplnce on Yi- and Krakauer Trio, and San Franciscos Ben up by registering a mle, ferhale, dr co-ed team. pm. Call 621-8875 for more information or email
day from 7-9 pm. For mof^^sgmta&lpjease Goldberg Trio. Regular admission is $14 and League teams or pick-up teams are welcome. hc89.
contact Forbes Gallery Co-Dtcters^at Welty student tickets are $7. Call the Pittsburgh New
(mw4q) or Kris Uhler (au00). Music Ensemble at 261-0554 for more informa-
Jellys Last Jam, playing at the Hemz Hall from
December 27-January 1, combines the excite- Palmer Shepherd, GradtrfeBaoonRecital
ment of New Orleans jazz with the syncopated will be pe^ptp^;mSl^feylat tmVtllon Insti-
beat and roof-raising choreography of the Broad- tute Auditorium at 7 pm; Frie Admission,
way stage. Tuesday through Sunday evening :-
performances are at 8 pm and Saturday and Organist H. Preston Showman, from Third
Sunday matines are at 2 pm. Tickets on sale at Presbyterian cWrch;jmjll be performing Advent
the Heinz Hall box office and at all Ticketmaster 3 on Sunday at th He^:hpel>mfSunday at
outlets. For tickets orinformation, call 392-49$. 9:30;pSi. ^his pOrfopaaneo i's partd$|ne Pitts-
Groups of 20 or more, call 392-2887. it. burghlCompline Choir Series.
HP v Theartn ivj rue crupeiv/r ^ fl
Kioe>opv Poes u\<e
CMU
The Three Rivers Arts Festival, an activity of
the Carnegie Museum of Art, is accepting 
for its 1995 Juried Visual Arts Exhibitior^^ 
1995 Artists Market. The entry deadline i^^^ 
ruary 4,1995. The Three Rivers Arts Festival is 
a multidisciplinary visual and performing 
even which t$kes place in downtown Pittsburg 
for lT^^^^ch^une. The categories for the;
ture, Crisis', Ph^p^^^aS^deo. The date 
for 36th-'|||&^evKivers &;s are June 2-^
June 18. i'jFor an entry foi^-.or ^rnrther informa
tion, please^write or cali^lie. Three Rivers Art 
Festim, 207 gweetbriar Sgfiet, Pittsburgh, PA 
152JU, tejepftone (412)^81-7040. Please specify 
the Visual Arts or
*t will 
negie 
ncert
LO^day traditiosi 
r native language 
rnmimemb ers c
members pay $7 for adults and $6 for children. 
Groups ofl 0 ormore receive aid percent discount 
on advance ticket orders. Tickets can be pur- 
iadiiperson dunSg regular museum hours or 
y casing The Carnegie at 622-3131. MasterCard/ 
VISA order are also accepted and will include a $1 
handling fee.
HiCZOeOFT OW Q.UE50 
FA3irA PLArree ^cLvvse-. 
.paO ewree, oMi^unw^ see.-
ViCeS, TELECOM, eOFVWP\<ZE 
HAMA(ZSHEhrr, AMD 
TUe fZAPius uaziro 
U\L\ COW OFLGV
W/rOGT\LLP\e VE HEWLETT 
PACKARD
T^e bouetAS crewAer 
taco voue cuoice JA7
ADOe>e,Ai.DU5, rtnisa rtgojeS5i 
dOMPAQ, oe OKIMECTiX 
AMe(2AS)
TU(2E EWCUiLADA PLAre
(owe bed, owe cuw NL) owe
K)G eWCtiiiADA)
COWiC & FACALLOW OM&O 
pLArree
oMe talk conjures tA/r4- 
r<4e d'nui oMwree croee 
AWP auE6T \JEUVOQ3Pittsburgh Early Music Ensemble presents 
its holiday costume-and-candlelight concert on 
December 17 at 8 pm at the Chatham College 
Chapel. For information, call 381-9321.
Fanny and Alexander will be playing in Doherty 
Hall 2210 Thursday at 5,8:30 pm, and midnight.nor & PCY ApPLe
W/CLPxQie (ZiCE 
TUE ALALM 7>6LL
W/fi\ e\VE OF ATi2T
inn e>Ae & oue
W/dEFfZlED /2
all, be playing 
l^fhursday at 
lege onSpnday
TheClient will play Friday^ Doherty Hall 2210 The mens bad
at 6,8,10 pm, and midnight. away against J^i
7:30 pm andben h( 
Natural Born Killers -will be shown this Satur- . at 2 pm. _ jjfe 
day at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight in Doherty Hall 
2210. The womens bas
in the Ohio Northe
Fire Maidens from Outer Space is playing December 29 at 6 e
Sunday in Doherty Hall 2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and at 1 and 3 pm. |
midnight. "'WOB %
The men#and w<
be competing iait 
WI I Team Classic altdi
itball tea]
Universit; 
18 pm and
10:00AM-5:00PMg. team will 
^Pittsburgh
Holiday Concert (Orchestra and Choirs) will \ rifHV
be playing at the Carnegie Music Hallon Monday W\J 11 vJJ/0
at 8 pm. Admis.sion.is $5. CMU students, faculty,
and staff receive a 20 percent discount. For more Come party at the Metropol with the Jewish
information, contact the Concert Line at 268- University Center on Monday at 8:30 pm. For
2383. > only $5, youll get transportation, food, drink,
dance, a dj, and much more! Everyone is welcome. 
Learn to Qance the Cajun two-step/waltz & Call 621-8875, or e-mail rsbj for details.
Zydeco! . Next class will run on Monday and
December 19 at Lucianos, 1023 Forbes Avenue, The International Poetry Forum presents
(across from Duquesne University). , Dance in- Samuel Hazos play Solos on December 9 and 10
struction and dancing to recorded music starts at at 8 pm at the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Appearing
8:30 pm. Jam session starts at 9:30 pm. Bring will be six local actors: Bingo OMalley, Helena
