CAMPUS WEEK 
COMING 
MAY 25, 26, 27
VOL. XVI. NO. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1922
PUBLIC WILL 
VISIT SCHOOL 
FRI. EVENING
Pittsburgh People Invited to 
Inspect all Colleges From 
7:30-10:30. Students Must 
Co-operate
PLAN GOOD PROGRAM
STUDENTS ARE INVITED
TO ATTEND DOWNTOWN
EXHIBIT BY LOCAL CLUB
On Friday, April 21, tlie Carnegie 
Institute of Technology will hold its 
annual “open house” from 7:30 to 
10:30 p. m. At that time students 
of the day and the night schools will 
be at work in all the studios, labor­
atories and shops. In the College of 
Fine Arts, in addition to the work 
in the studios, there will be various 
exhibits of the work of students of 
Art, Architecture and Sculpture. Fur­
thermore, the Department of Music 
and the Department of Drama, will 
give a joint program consisting of 
one-act plays, musical recitals and 
a symphony orchestra concert.
Invitation cards and programs have 
been mailed out by the administrative 
offices and distributed by students. 
The program is a four-page folder, 
showing the location of the various 
buildings on the campus and indi­
cating the nature of the work being 
done in each room.
The purpose of the exhibition night 
is to acquaint the citizens of the 
Pittsburgh district with the wide 
range of technical instruction that 
is given on the Carnegie Tech Camp­
us. Both day and night students 
are urged to co-operate by bringing 
this matter to the atf.ention of their 
friends and acquaintances. Students 
who desire additional invitation cards 
and programs can obtain them at 
the office of the Registrar. This is 
an opportunity for each student to 
make new friends for Carnegie.
Poverty Day Program 
Includes Plebe Parade
Freshmen From Four Schools 
at Assembly
Students are invited to attend the 
spring exhibition of paintings and 
sketches, by members of the 
Cordova Club, held in the Beaux 
Arts Galleries (Old Thaw Home) 120 
Stanwix street (across the street 
from Horne’s new building.) The 
galleries will be open every after­
noon from April 17 to 27, during 
this time members of the club will 
entertain the visitors, by serving tea 
and also offering any information re­
garding the display. On Saturday aft­
ernoon the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh will be guests of the 
club. »Students are also invited to 
attend and become acquainted with 
the exhibitors and their guests*.
The following are the exhibitors: 
Sarah C. Beatty, Eleanor S. Black, 
Anna B. Craig, Mabel K. Day, Lillian 
G. Henius, Frances V. McCommon, 
Florence E. Newcomer, Elizabeth B. 
Robb, Helen O. Whitmer, Sarah C. 
Wilson.
ADD NEW FEATURES 
FOR CAMPUS WEEK
Co-Eds Plan Banquet For 
Women Students 
and Alumni
MUSICAL CLUBS 
DISCUSSED AT
M. M. D. ALUMNI ASSOC. PLANS 
BRIDGE PARTY FOR BENEFIT
OF SCHOLARSHIP FUND 
t
The Margaret ^lorrison Alumni As­
sociation hopes tjliat many convorsa- 
P A 1\H rrTTMn tions with the same trend as the fol-
^ jj iV\ tfLl 1 1JN lo'ving j place between now
Reorganization of Musical 
Clubs Urged, to Take Con­
trol Out of Hands of Any 
One Group
TO FORM NEW CLUBS
Beggars 'who carry a look of dis- 
pair, clad in garments long ago disr 
carded by the original wearer, tramps 
with the proverbial tin can and 
bundle wrapped in a red bandana 
’hercliief, and crippled, blind men, 
character from the slums, one and 
all will pass 'before the general as­
sembly of the students at the annual 
Poverty Day exercises at the Music 
Hall.
The date has been set as April 26 
and the committee expects a more 
fitting observance of the day by the 
Plebes of ’25 than has been shown 
by previous Plebe classes. The idea 
of Poverty Day is still in its youth 
at Carnegie and this annual day on 
which Plebes attempt to disguise 
themselves according to their ideas 
of poverty is 'regarded as a red let­
ter day on the calendar of eveiy 
Carnegie Tech student.
Immediately before the assembly 
the Plebes, attired in observance of 
the day will parade to the' Music 
Hall. About twenty of tho most fit­
tingly costumed will be picked from 
the parade as candidates for exemp­
tion from Plebe regulations. From 
that number the ten best will be 
picked, those ten to immediately be 
released from regulations for the re­
mainder of the year. This will mean 
exemption one month previous to 
Qualification Day, the day when all' 
Plebes are freed from the yoke.
To the Plebes Poverty Day should 
mean two things: A chance to be re­
leased from regulations and 
chance as a class and an individual 
to build up the traditions of Carne­
gie Tech. Either is worth the effort.
The dates for Campus Week are 
May 25, 26 and 27. < Plans and prep­
arations are well advanced. It is 
hoped to make this the best event 
yet. The program is not yet finish­
ed,. but in general it will be similar 
to that of last year, -with a few 
changes. The main differences are: 
There will be no circus this year, 
but in place of it, there will be a 
show at ¡Schenley Theater, on Satur­
day evening. This performance is 
to be for people connected with 
school. The show is to be produced 
by the Drama Department and will 
have special attractions which will 
be a fitting dose for Campus Week.
Among the new attractions is the 
gills’ banquet which will be* held 
in the Margaret Morrison lunch 
room on May 27.
This is an entirely new idea which 
promises to be a big feature for the 
fairer $ex. Another new addition is 
the inter-fraternity dance on Wed­
nesday evening, 'preceding the open­
ing date. The plan is to have open 
house at all fraternities, which means 
that members from the various 
houses will be privileged to visit any 
other place during the evening.
The program will include events 
of last year, such asi: Vaudeville 
show at the Carnegie Music Hall, 
interfraternity sweepstakes, Mardl 
Gras, athletic events, qualification 
day, the call, alumni banquet, May 
dances and musical feast.
The program has not been com­
pleted but will be interesting enough 
to please to most fastidious.
Students Speak to A. I. E. E
ARCHITECTS HOLD MEETING
AND ELECT OFFICERS
At a meeting on Monday, April 3, 
the architects organized and elected 
officers. The new officers are: 
I-Iighberger, president; Lake, vice 
president; Minnick, secretary; Pat­
terson, treasurer.
The advisability of holding some 
kind of a social event in the depart­
ment was discussed. They decided 
to hold a dance on the 28tli of April. 
The following committee was ap*- 
pointed: Kreisle, chairman; Vincent,
Bowers, Rank, Cousins. This will 
not be an ordinary tea dance but 
will call upon the ingenuity of the 
committee.
What promises to be a revolution- 
ization of Musical Club affairs wras 
started at the semi-monthly meeting 
of the Student Activities Board. A 
great deal of the discussion which 
has been taking place on the campus 
and int collegiate :circfes the past 
month brought definite action wiien 
,a committee was appointed from 
members of the Board to investigate 
matters pertaining to the Musical 
Clubs.
It was clearly brought out in the 
discussion that took place that re­
organization was the essential work 
necessary in the action to be taken on 
the Musical Club. In a large meas­
ure the clubs are a means of adver­
tising the school and any dissatis­
faction that takes place in their or­
ganization is bound to reflect on the 
school.
With these points in mind the 
board voted that a temporary mana­
ger of the clubs be appointed by that 
board from a list of nominees sub­
mitted by the Musical Clubs with the 
provision that a permanent officer be 
elected In the fall. This action was 
taken to give new men who come out 
in the fall a chance to have a voice 
in the selection of their manager and 
prevent matters from coming under 
the control of any one body or group 
of men, an evil which has long tend­
ed to disrupt the clubs and which has 
caused dissatisfaction among its mem­
bers and the school at large.
It is hoped by the board that ac­
tion will result in a complete reor­
ganization of the Musical Clubs in tlie 
fall and that a new Carnegie Musical 
Club with the talent of the old, but 
without its evils, will be formed, ad­
mitting all seeking a place on the 
clubs on the same basis, giving new 
(Continued on Page Two.)
¦ and the 22ud of April:
“Where are you going, my pretty 
maid?” !
‘‘I go to the bridge, kind sir," she 
said.
“May I go with you. my pretty maid?” 
"You may if you wish, kind sir,” 
she said.
V
And you will be most welcome at 
tlie benefit bridge to be given by the 
Margaret Morrison Alumnae for their 
scholarship fund on April 22, at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel. Tickets at $1.00 each 
may be secured from Miss Stewart in 
the Alumni Office.
Help us, that we may help you!
FELLOWSHIPS OFFERED IN 
MINING ENGINEERING DEPT.
SCHOLARSHIP OF 
$300 ESTABLISHED
Students of Building Con­
struction Will be 
Given Reward
The Pittsburgh Builders' Exchange 
has established a scholarship for 
$300.00 at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Under the terms this 
amount will be available each year 
during the life of the scholarship to 
be awarded to meritorious students 
in the Department of Building Con­
struction, College' of Industries.
Awards will be made on the basis 
of cliolastic standing, good character, 
and evidence of ^exceptionable prom­
ise for success, ill the building con­
struction industry. The scholarship 
may be divided at the discretion of 
the faculty.
PROMINENT MEN 
WILL ASSEMBLE 
AT CONFERENCE
ii ---------------
Convention Will Open Here 
May 1. Representatives of 
All Large Schools Will be 
in Attendance
TWO DAY SESSION
List of Research Work
Distributed to Faculty
Cosmopolitan Club of Pitt 
And Carnegie to Give Dance
The Co-operative Department of 
Mining Engineering of C. 1. T. an­
nounces the offering of two fellow­
ships in mining research and two in 
teaching and research, in co-opera­
tion with the Pittsburgh Experiment 
Station of the United States Bureau 
of Mines. Appointment to the posi­
tion of research fellow is for 
period of ten months beglning July 
1, 1922; to the position of t6aching 
fellow is for a period of ten months 
begining August 1, 1922. Fellow­
ships are open to the graduates of 
universities and technical schools 
who are properly Qualified to under­
take research investigations. Tho 
value of each fellowship is $750 per 
year of ten months. Fellowship stu­
dents will be candidates for the de­
gree of Master of Science unless an 
equivalent degree has been previous­
ly earned.
The purpose of the fellowships is 
for tlie solution of mining problems 
in mining and utilization of fuels 
which are of special importance to 
the bituminous coal industry. The 
following subjects have been sug­
gested for investigation:
1—Acid Mine Waters—
a. Physical-chemical study of the 
mechanism of corrosion in acid mine 
water.
b. Neutralization with limestone, 
blast furnace slag, etc.
(Continued on Page Two.)
At the last meeting of the organi­
zation, held Thursday evening, April 
6, in Machinery Hall, three of the 
student members gave interesting 
talks.
L. J. Whitehead discussed “Super 
Power Transmission,” and showed 
the advantage and economy of such 
a system designed to connect the 
large power houses of the New Eng­
land States, New York, New Jersey 
and Eastern Pennsylvania.
Lazich entertained the audience 
with music received by his radio out­
fit. With a diagram he described a 
method of “connecting up” a simple 
receiving set.
Bill Andrews showed some photo­
graphs taken during his travels in 
'South America as a wireless opera­
tor aj.d recounted some interesting 
incidents.
At | the close of the meeting re­
freshments were served.
On Saturday evening of this week 
the combined Cosmopolitan Clubs of 
Pitt and 'Carnegie Tech will give a 
novelty dance in the Union. Hughes’ 
Orchestra will furnish the music for 
dancing, which will last from 8:30 
to 12:00. The assessment will be 
$1.50 per couple. The Cosmopolitan 
Club is one of increasing popularity 
and influence among the students of 
both Pitt and Tech, and this assures 
the success of the dance.
Add to list of new clubs the “Clean 
Dozen” of Defiance College, an organ­
ization,; whose members have agreed 
to chew soap if caught indulging in 
profanity. Chance for our Skibo to 
make 4 fortune in soap.ie -it f i
WORK OF CARNEGIE PROF.
PLACED ON EXHIBITION
For the past two weeks the paint­
ings and drawings of Prof. Harry 
Sternfield, Acting Head of the De­
partment of Architecture, Carnegie 
Tech, have been on exhibition in the 
School of Fine Arts, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. The 
drawings and paintings wrere done by 
Prof. Sternfield while studying in 
Paris.
During the month of February they 
were on exhibition at the Annual Ex­
hibit of the Architectural League of 
New York.
CARNEGIE REPRESENTED AT
INAUGURATION CEREMONIES
The Division oE Co-oporatlvo Re­
search lias prepared and distributed 
to the members of tho faculty, a com­
plete list of the research work which 
is now in progrosB in the various de­
partments of Carnegie Tech.
Tills report has revealed many In­
teresting facts pertaining to original 
work being carried out at Carnogio 
Tech. Nearly one hundred mombors, 
of the faculty and studonts upon ono 
or more special problems, and many 
widely divergent Interests are repre­
sented. Several members of tho fac­
ulty have as many as three or four In­
vestigations under way.
Some commercial investigations are 
being carried out In co-oporatlon with 
business and Industrial concorns. Pro­
fessor Dibble’s work on jointing ma­
terials for vitrified clap pipe Is typi­
cal of this kind of work.
There are other studies being car­
ried out in tho Hold of pure science, 
such as Professor James’ exhaustive 
research on the constitutional analy­
sis of crude petroleum.
Soveral members of tho faculty are 
assisting Professor Rlttman In his 
commercial onglnoering -study of tho 
Pittsburgh district. Others are co­
operating with tho Bureau of Minos 
in carrying out investigations of mu­
tual interest.
The members of the Bureau of Per­
sonal Research and the Research Bu­
reau for Retail Training are at pres­
ent engaged In intensive research on 
the special problems of those bureaus.
Under the head of Educational Re­
search a great many interesting topics 
are listed. They include new methods 
of teaching which certain depart­
ments are working out, and are said 
to be distinctly Carnegie Tech prop­
ositions, as they are not duplicated 
anywhere else in the country.
This list indicates that there is 
good deal of activity going on in the 
laboratories and offices, in addition to 
the regular work of instruction.
ANNUAL NEWMAN CLUB
FORMAL WED., APRIL 26
Plans are rapidly talcing shape to 
make a big success of the second 
convention on Commercial Engineer­
ing called by the U. S. Commissioner 
of Education for May 1 and 2 at Car­
negie Institute of Technology. The 
announced object of the conference is 
to investigate business training for 
engineers and engineering training 
for students of business.
The relative Importance that com­
mercial engineering has in industry 
Is reflected by the enthusiastic re­
sponse with which invitations to at­
tend have been accepted. Invita­
tions to appoint delegates have 
gone out from Washington to col­
leges and universities maintaining 
courses in commerce or engineering, 
to engineering professional socie­
ties, to individuals, and to more than 
fourteen hundred chambers of com­
merce and trade organizations.
If the response to these invitations 
is a barometer this conference 
should be even more constructive 
than the flrst held two and a half 
years ago In Washington.
Dr. Glen Levin Swiggett, of U. S. 
Burear of Education is chairman of 
the general committee. Other promi­
nent members include: A. S. Bedford, 
chairman of the Board of Directors, 
Standard Oil Company of Now York; 
Hon. Coloniali DuPont, U. S. Sonate, 
Washington, D. C.; Gon Goorgo W. 
Goethals, New Yory City; John Hays 
Hammond, Washington, D. C.; Sam­
uel Insull, prosldent of Common­
wealth Edison Company. Chicago; 
Dexter S. Zimball, dean, Collogo of 
Engineering, Cornell Unlvorslty; C. 
R. Marin, chairman of Oporatlons and 
Training Division, War Dopartmont, 
General »Staff, Washington; Francis 
C. Pratt, vico prosldont, Gouoral Elec­
tric Company, Schenectady, N. Y.;
(Continued On Pago Two.)
PLEBES AND SOPHOMORES 
STAGE SCRAP ON CAMPUS
DIRECTOR BOSSANGE MAKES
ADDRESS AT UNIVERSITY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
Director E. Raymond Bossango, of 
tho College of Fine Arts, Carnogio 
Instituto of Technology, addressed 
tho Eloventh Annual Meeting of tho 
College Arts Association of America, 
at the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Thursday, April 15. His 
subject was “Freehand Drawing In 
tho College Curricula.”
INTER-FRAT-DORM MGRS.
TO MEET NEXT THURSDAY
On Thursday, April 27. at -1:30 P. 
M., there will bo a meeting of the 
Inter-Fraternity Dormitory Basketball 
managers in the “Y” Club Room. All 
representatives are urged to be pres­
ent for thoro is important business to 
be taken care of and the election of 
officers for next year will take place.
(SIGNED) H. m WILSON, 
Secretary-Treasurer.
PROF. STEVENS 
WILL DIRECT 
YA. PAGEANT
Tech Graduate Assistant 
Director. Depicts History 
of State. 300 People to Par­
ticipate
SEEN BY THOUSANDS
CUP AWARDED AT 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Entertainment Furnished 
by Students From 
Drama Dept.
On Thursday, April 0, tho Plobo 
class, doubtless enthused by tho 
Spring air, put up a klto ovor tho 
campus, which boro tho numbers 
’25, Tho klto was too weak l’or tho 
prevailing winds and soon collapsod, 
It soom» that tho Plobos agreed that 
ovory Froshman was to socuro a 
piece of tlio kite as a souvenir. In 
tho rush that followed tho collapse 
of tho klto sovoral Sophs who woro 
standing noar tho klto whon It foil 
woro roughly handled. Tho Sophs 
mistook tho playful mood of tho 
Plobos for ono of sorloufinoas and 
ondoavorod to dlsporso tho crowd of 
Freshnion 'by moans of a lioso from 
Drama School. Tho Plobos did not 
desire an Involuntary bath, and did 
not wish to dlsporso so they sailed 
In to get possession of tho hose.
At tills polnl liostliltlos became 
general and a serious free-for-all re­
sulted. The upperclassmen, fearing 
that the Plebes were getting too up­
pish came to the aid or the Sophs 
and finally managed to subduo tho 
scrappy Plebes who had counted on 
no Interference from the upperclass­
men.
The Freshmen were now dispersed 
and the ringleaders were firmly led 
to the “sink” where punishment was 
given. Some unlucky ones were 
sheared but this was not general.
PSYCHOLOGIST FROM N. Y.
VISITS PROF. BINGHAM
The Carnegie Insitute of Technol­
ogy will be represented by Mr.
Charles Si. Crawford, ’13, Engineer- and Charles Degan of the University
All plans ax-e completed for the 
holding of the annual Newman Club 
Formal Ball in the Knights of Col­
umbus Ballroom on Wednesday even­
ing, April 26. The contract for dec­
orations has been let with one of the 
large floral concerns and the commit­
tee assure^ that the ballroom will be 
appropriately adorned for the occa­
sion. Dancing will continue from 9 
until after 1 with an interruption at 
midnight long enough to allow sup­
per to be served. The Grand March 
will be at 9:30 when the- souvenir 
program will be distributed. .Dr 
Arthur Hamerschlag, Chancellor 
John G. Bowman and Henry Carr, 
Grand Knight of Duquesne Council,, 
Knights of Columbus will be the 
guesLs of the club on the evening of 
tho ball. Patrons and patronesses 
are Mrs. Elizabeth J. Galvin, A. C. 
Dean, Mr. and Mrs. D. F. Shanahan, 
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Carey, Mr. and 
Mrs. Francis A. Keating and Miss No­
ra B. King. The committee for the 
ball includes: Miss Helen Murphy 
and Miss Anne Brennan, Henry Breh- 
er, Joseph Berno of Carnegie Tech, 
Miss Helen Conley, William Curley
ing, w'ho is now located in Los An­
geles, at the inauguration ceremonies 
of Rufus Bernhard von Kleinsmid as 
President of the University of South­
ern California, April 27 to 29.
of Pittsburgh, Miss Agnes Dempsey 
of Colfax Training School, Charles 
V. O’Connor of Duquesne University.
James P. Maloney of the University 1 retary, Clara 
of Pittsburgh is chairman. John Douglas.
J. McKeen Cattell, president of the 
Psychological Corporation, recently 
organized in New York City, was a 
visitor at Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology April 3. Mr. Cattell spent 
some time with W. V. Bingham, di­
rector of the Division of Co-operative 
Research, who is also a director of 
the Psychological Corporation.
This organization created much in­
terest when first formed because of 
its intended lines of activities. Its 
object is to advance psychology and 
to promote the useful applications of 
psychology. The original announce­
ment contained the provision that Its 
earnings must be devoted to scien­
tific research. So far as It known, it 
is the first corporation to be organ­
ized under the provisions outlined.
The Board of Directors Is made up 
of James R. Angell, president of 
Yale Unlvorslty, and other represen­
tative psychologists.
RESULTS OF ELECTION
OF ARTS PLEBES
Tho final election of new officers 
for the Plebe Class of Design ¡School 
was held on Friday, April 7, at 1:30, 
in room 102, President Mallory pre­
siding. The following officers were 
elected:
President, Waynes Koppes, Vice 
President, Dorothy Diamond; Sec- 
Pierce; Treasurer,
METALLURGISTS AND MINERS 
SOCIETY ELECTS OFFICERS
The Metallurgists and Miners So­
ciety held a smoker on Tuesday, 
April 4, at which time several new 
members were initiated. Mr. George 
B. Lane, a graduate in the Class of 
’16, and who now is employed by the 
A. M. Byers Co., gave a very inter­
esting talk on “Wrought Iron, Its 
Method of Manufacture and Its Uses.” 
Mr. Lane is a graduate of the Metal­
lurgical Engineering Department and 
was one of Tech's star football men. 
Installation of officers followed, at 
which time the following men were 
elected:
President, Chas. W. Jeffers; Vice 
President, Franklin H. Allison; Sec­
retary, Herman L. Griffin; Treas­
urer, Leslie Schweitzer.
Music was furnished by the Five 
Musical Mets, after which refresh­
ments were served.
Tho last general assembly before 
the Easter vacation was ono which 
will not be soon forgotten by thoso 
who attended. ,
To quote Director Bossango, “The 
days of Importing an artistic talont 
are past.” Tho program put on by 
the Arts School was conclusive 
proof of this statement. The pro­
gram for tho assembly was entirely 
carried out by tho Arts’ studonts 
and faculty, and It is to bo hoped 
that they will soon have charge of 
another assembly.
Director Bossango pointod out 
that tho moro fact, that the Colloge 
of Flno Arts at Carnogio Tech Is 
tho only ono of Its kind in tho coun­
try is sufficient reason why It must 
oniploy methods that differ from 
thoso used by other collogos.
Individuality Is a matter of prlino 
Importance, uniformity and largo 
scalo production methods, aro im­
possible in tho education of real 
artists.
Director Bossango, In closing, ox* 
prossed his dosiro that tho Arts 
School would provo worthy of tho 
sympathetic co-oporatlon of tho rest 
of tho Institution.
Miss Gertrude Fraloy, accompunlod 
by Mathew Froy, sang a fow sclbc- 
tlons that woro well rocolvod by 
tho audience.
Tho championship cup of tho 
Intor-Frat-Dorm 11. D. League was 
formally prosontod to lota Sigma 
Delta by tho Scalp and Hlado.
Prosldont Nation called the atten­
tion of tho studonts lo tlio now rules 
concerning voting which appeared 
In Tho Carnogio Tartan of April 5.
“Safety’' First announced that Pov­
erty Day would bo observed thin 
year and suggested that tho IMobos 
got busy and produce some original 
Ideas.
Dummy Szold interpreted a fow 
Italian lingo readings which brought 
down! tho hoitso.
A dramatic exposition of tho tragic, 
“Hoclc of tho Rosperus,’'' was stagod 
by Ross Hertz, Carl Rold, Adelaide 
JSello, Jack Will lard and Phil Thorn,
Carnegie Institute of Technology is 
to bo well represented by tho produc­
tion of the Virginia Historical Page­
ant, in Richmond, Va., May 22, to 
May 26. Prof. Thomas Wood Stevens, 
head of the drama department in tho 
College of Fine Arts, at Tech, is di­
rector of tho pageant; Howard For­
man Smith, a graduate of the drama 
department, is assistant director, and 
tho latter’s wife, Sara Bennett Smith, 
a former student at Tech, is in charge 
of tho costume designs.
Professor Stevens is writing tlio 
pageant, and spends week ends in 
Richmond working on its production. 
During tho week Mr. Smith Is in 
charge of the direction. Both men 
have had wide experience in this 
work. Professor Stevens lias been 
identified with pageants throughout 
the country.
Mr. Smith was graduated from tho 
drama department In 191S. During 
ills collogo years ho wrote two of tho 
best one-act plays ever produced at 
Carnegio Tech. They wero “The Hel­
met" and “Blackborrylng.” Since 
graduation ho has been active, chlelly. 
In Little Theater work In various 
cities. Ho was director of tho Little 
Theater in Now Orloans last soason, 
was a member of tho cast of “Tho 
Spring," produced last spring in Now 
York, and recently was director of tho 
Little Theater in Lynchburg, Va.
Tho Virginia Pageant will bo par­
ticipated In by citizens from all sec­
tions of tho stat.o. Its prosontatlon 
(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
FORMER DEAN SPEAKS
AT INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
C. B. Connolly, Stato Commissioner 
of Labor and Industries, was tho 
speaker yesterday at the Student As­
sembly, College of Industries, Carne­
gie Institute of Technology.
Citmas Has Pumas Club of 
Pitt as Guest at Smoker
PROF. HORNBOSTEL NEW
BILLIARD CHAMPION
Tho student body and alumni will 
bo interested to know that tho seven- 
ty-lnch diamond bolt, which goo a to 
the Billiard Champion of tho Admin­
istration lof v/hlch Dr. Balter has 
been tho proud possessor for some 
time, has changed hands. In a hotly 
contested match at the P. A. A. last 
Monday night Professor Hornbostel, 
after many skillful plays, emerged 
the v/Inner. Dr. Baker's only coment 
was, “The darned thing was too 
small;” Professor Hornbostel says, 
"It is too large,” so we may hear of 
further changes.
John S. Taylor, superintendent or 
the forge shop, gave an interesting 
talk at the Citmas Club smoker held 
Thursday, April 6, at the Beta 
House. And fish stories, oh boy! 
We wish Mr. Taylor would take us 
along some time.
The Pumas Club of the University 
of Pittsburgh, was represented and 
extended an invitation to the mem­
bers of the Citmas Club to attend a 
dance to be held on April 21. Tick­
ets for this dance may be had from 
any of the officers of the club.
The next meeting will be held on 
Friday afternoon, April 21, In the 
Y. M. C. A. club room,: Be there.
President Hamerschlag 
Left For Home Apr. 12
Sailed From Cherbourg on 
Ship Resolute
Word VOOOL boon rocolvod by tlio ml- 
ministration that I’rosldont I-iamor- 
BOhlag flallod for America from Cher­
bourg, Franco, April 12, on the ship 
ItOHoluto, Owing to tho fact that 
llils trip Is Iho Inltul voyage of tho 
Itono’luto to tho American shores, tho 
doflnlto time of -docking cannot be 
assured, Under tho best of weather 
conditions It Is not likely that ho 
will reach here before April 2-1, but 
definite time of landing will likely 
bo announced from the steamer pre­
vious lo docking in Now York har­
bor.
NON-DEGREE MEN
TO GIVE DANCE
In order to promote a closer rela­
tionship than has existed In the ¡past 
botwoon dogreo and non-dogroc> men, 
the non Degree Association will hold 
a dance In tho Union on April 28. Tho 
various committees have boon selected 
and further preparations are under 
way.
The Non Dogreo Association has be­
come quite active on the campus late­
ly, and is helping to boost tho school. 
It lias passed the resolution, formu­
lated by the Student Council, concern­
ing cribbing; nnd now realizing tho 
lack of co-operation between the non­
degree and degree men, It has de­
cided to try and establish a better un­
derstanding between the two.
The dance is a direct result of its 
efforts, and many special features are 
promised. It is to be made an an­
nual affair and is expected to attain 
considerable prominence. The prof­
its will probably be used to purchase 
cheerleaders' uniforms.
RESEARCH FACULTY NOTES
John M. Holcombo, Jr., the new 
business manager of the Life Insur­
ance Research Bureau, has been 
spending the last week visiting a 
unmber of large insuraneo companies 
in tho United States and Canada,
Two new and valuable additions to 
tho Bureau of Co-operative Research 
are tho Metropolitan Life Insurance 
Company of New York, and Western 
Union Company of Spokano, Wash.
Dr. B, W. Robinson is spending sov­
oral weeks in New York City with 
the W. T. Grant Company.
The average intelligence of the 
United States is equal to that of a 
pupil In the sixth grade, says Prof. 
H; L. Willett of the University of 
Chicago.
Commissions For R. 0. T. C.
Tho Military Department wishes to 
announce the reporting for assign­
ment to units of the National Guard 
or Organized Reserves of the follow­
ing men who will have successfully 
completed the four R. O. T. C.
course on June 16, 1922, and who 
have been recommended for commis­
sions In the Officers Reserve Corps:
(1)—To the Adjutant General,
Pennsylvania National Guard, Har­
risburg, Pa,: Motor Transport Corps: 
Alfred Harold Anderson, Donald
Saunders Harding.
(2)—To the Adjutant General, Ari­
zona NaLional Guard, Phoenix, Arizo­
na, Signal Corps Unit: Albert
Meredith Elliott.
(3)—To tho Chlof of Staff, 94th
Dlv, Org, Iios., Custom House, Bos­
ton, Mims. Signal Corps Unit: Fred­
erick Osborno Stebblns.
(4) To Iho' Chief of Staff, 100th
Dlv., A. G, O., Charleston, W. Va. 
Motor Transport Corps: Earl Cran­
ston Bolton.
(5)—To the Chief of Staff, 77th
Div„ Org. Res., 39 Whttehill street, 
New York City. Motor Transport 
Corps: Henry Arthur Beck.
(6)—To the Chief of Staff, 98tb
Dlv., Org. Res., Federal Building, 
Rochester, N. Y. Motor Transport
(Continued on Page Two.)
\

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEG IE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1922
B« «OHM 1031» tUYini swrrrÜ.KtlîSK«f»tirare» sum
Most of the famous structures of the world 
are equipped with Otis Elevators.
\JBR\SU
rrsSfaaMBl
X& Carnegie jTartati
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in tlie Postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES .......................................................... Edltor-ln-Chloi
Telephone, Hazel 9398
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................... Business Manager
Telephone, Schenley 2053-R
VIC..II. STROMQUIST ................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone, Hiland 858
HELEN V. LEWIS ....................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9079
L. J. WHITEHEAD ...................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND............................................................................. News Editor
Telephono, Schenley 9070
II. F. SIMPSON.................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9070
R. H. GUYTON..................................................................................... Photographer
O. A. DICKMAN.............,...............................................................Exchange Editor
II. D. SONNEMANN .............................................................. Advertising Manager
Telephone. Schenley 9211
E. L. REILLY ........................................................................... Circulation Manager
* " EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Gladys Boguo, M. Schumacher, II. F. Dieter, A. Lubin, Vincent Roy, 
V. C. MacKenzie, H. II. Lofkowitz, W. .T. Bolton, L. Hertzman, E. J. Maust, 
It. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. Downes, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. 
Byerly, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Mattson, R. J. Kredel, F. D. Rossini, V. L. 
Spencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS’
II. H. Wilson, II. .T. McCormick, J. A. Berno, L. D. Allsliouse, E. C. Frazier.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
.T. M. Cooper, E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhausor, J. C. 
Major, F. II. Allison, A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schuclcer 
and T. J. Dempsey.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All news items must be in tho student 
post olllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan Olllce—Room 5-A, Industries Building. Olllce hours—Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
EXHIBITION NIGHT
The Annual Exhibit oil Carnegie Tech ¦will be held Friday night 
of this week. Carnegie Tech will be thrown open for inspection. 
We are proud oJ! our school, its buildings, equipment and methods. 
The public, except for our athletic contests, knows little of our 
school. "We want them to know the other side of our life; how we 
are preparing for our life’s work.
Bring your friends out; personally conduct them through the 
school. If you are not engaged in that way stick around and help 
your department with their exhibit or stand in readiness to assist 
the visitors. People who come to inspect tlie school are visitors, treat 
them as visitors to your own home. Information kindly given or 
assistance rendered, which carries an interest of personal duty, will 
make friends for Carnegie Tech.
Invitations and programs may be obtained at tlie Registrar’s 
office. Send them to all of your acquaintances. Insist that they 
come. Public opinion is an index of a school’s standing; let us have 
Carnegie Tech stand high-in tho opinion of the people of Pittsburgh.
Calendar of Student Events
MUSICAL CLUB DISCUSSED
AT S. A. B. MEETING
(Continual From Page One.) 
men a chance equal to that of the in­
signia men.
The board further recommended 
the «election of a non talented man as 
manager of tho Musical Clubs and 
voted to Include it as a recommenda­
tion to the club» as worthy of Includ­
ing in their constitution, which is 
now about to be made up for the first 
time. It is felt that the position can 
be more efficiently filled by a man 
who is not called upon to spend any 
of his time in the performance of his 
duty as a talented member of tlie 
club.
Additional business taken up at tho 
meeting Included acceptance of the 
port of the Carnegie Tartan and 
the election of Mr. Porterileld to tho 
office of business manager of tho 
Student Handbook, which Is being 
published by Alpha Alpha Nu.
The board also voted that all or­
ganizations receiving appropriations 
from that body 'have all methods 
used In supplementing their budgets 
approved by that body. This action 
was taken in vlow of the manner in 
which some of the organizations 
have attempted to raise funds in ex- 
cesa of tho amount set forth in the 
budgets outlined by the board,
Mr. Ame» was elected as a delegate 
to the Student Government Confer­
ence to be held at Lexington Ky.
Mr. Jeffers, a new member on the 
Student Activities Board was elected 
to the office of vice president.
FRIDAY, APRIL 21
Baseball—West Virginia vs. Carnegie...............................................Tliere
Exhibition Night.....................................................................Four Schools
Dance—Cosmopolitan Club .............. ......................8:30, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, APRIL 22
Baseball—West Virginia vs. Carnogio...............................................Thoro
Dance—Department of Applied Art..............8:15, College of Fine Arts
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2G
Basoball—Swarthmore vs. Carnogio .............................................. There
THURSDAY, APRIL 27
Basoball—Dclawaro vs. Carnegie .................................................... Thoro
FRIDAY, APRIL 28
Triangular Debate........................W. & J., West Virginia and Carnegio
SATURDAY, APRIL 20
Basobnll....Navy vs. Carnegie...............................................................There
Dance—Scalp and .Blade Dance...............................8:30, Carnogio Union
FELLOWSHIPS OFFERED
IN MINING ENGINEER­
ING DEPARTMENT
(Continued From Page Ono.)
<•. llecovory of iron oxide for gas 
purification and other purposes.
(I. I'urlficatlou for .XIN In bolloiu
2—-Shootlnfl Coal—
a, (Factioni In <\hot firing which 
favor the production oC lum'p coal, 
h. Effect of location, ul’/.e and 
depth of boro holes, 
e. Kind of explosives;
d. Sequence of firing,
e. Method of charging and firing.
1!, Method of cutting coal.
3— Spontaneous Combustion and Coal
Storage—
a. Effect of -size ol' coal.
b. Effect of moisture.
o. Effect of authraxylon and uttrl- 
aus.
d. Action Qf various forms of
sulphur.
A—Geology—
a. Relation of relative proportions 
of anthraxylon and attritus in coal 
to its coking properties and by-pro­
duct yield.
b. Correlation of coal seams by
microscopic characteristics.
c. Constitution of coal seams in
Western Pennsylvania,
5—By-Product Coking—
a. Determination of the heat of
carbonization of coal.
b. Determination of the volatile 
matter in coke at various tempera­
tures.
6— Utilization of Coal—
a. Study of the economic utiliza­
tion of the roof coal of the Pitts­
burgh seam, including structure, com­
position, coking properties and by­
product yields.
7—Coali Mining—
a. Determination of tho compros' 
Hive strength of coal from various 
beds.
Tho above named subjects won 
proponed by tho advisory board o 
tho 'Co-operative Division of MlnluR 
Engineering. The school will fur 
nlsh tlio follow; the U. S. Duronu 
of Mines will furnish the laboratory 
facilities, and tho mining Industry 
will furnish tho funds and faollltli 
for carrying experiments into the 
mlnos thus giving practicability to 
the experiments.
The offorlng of such fellowships by 
C. I. T. started last year and four 
men are completing such courses, 
Henry G. Borgor, a graduate of tho 
University of Illinois, is making "A 
Study of the Gas, Oil and Other Pro­
ducts of tho Bono aud Gunnel Con­
stituents of tho Freeport Coal Bed; 
John F. Byrne, a graduate of the 
University of Utah, is studying “Tho 
Relative Tendencies of Pennsylvania 
Coals to Fire Spontaneously;" George 
M. Enos, a graduate of the South 
Dakota School of Mines, will give 
“A Report on Investigation, of Acid 
Resisting Equipment lor Use in Coal 
Mines;” A. W. Voorhees, a graduate 
of Princeton University, is malting 
“A Microscopic Study of the Freeport 
Coal Bed."
This is the first time in the his­
tory of the country that coal opera­
tors are 'aiding and co-operating in 
such investigations. It is hoped that 
with such investigations readjust­
ments which are necessary in tlie 
mining and using of coal will soon 
ibe accomplished.
ROAMIN’S
PROF. STEVENS WILL
DIRECT VA. PAGEANT
(Continued From Pag9 One.) 
will include period parades, tourna­
ment and the Pageant of Virginia dur­
ing what will be known as “March of 
Progress Week.”
The Pageant is a sweeping histori­
cal drama of the great events in the 
story of the Old Dominion. It is not a 
procession, nor a masque, but a play 
of many episodes presented on a large 
outdoor stage.
Its story is Virginia’s history from 
tho landing at Jamestown to the pres­
ent day. Its characters are the great 
men of America—Captain John Smith 
and the pioneers of the first settle1 
ment; Patrick Henry, Washington, 
Jefferson, and the leaders of the Rev­
olution; Lee and the great figures of 
the Confederacy, and a host of others.
’lie Pageant will be presented each, 
night, beginning May 22. A huge au­
ditorium near Bryan Park will be 
use/l. It will have a seating capacity 
of more than thirty thousand and a 
stage to accommodate at least three 
thousand participants.
Five cities in Virginia have been al­
lotted special nights. Their represen­
tatives are to assist in the presenta­
tion, eacli having tlio privilege of se­
lecting an episode from local history 
to bo propared for the drama by Di­
rector Stevons.
On each day tliere will bo a parade, 
roprosenting “The March of Progress 
Parados.” The week’s program Is: 
Monday, Coronation of the Queen, and 
Coronation parade; Tuesday, Colonial 
Day; Wednesday, Revolutionary and 
Wor of 1818; Thursday, Confederate 
and Floral parade; Friday, Spanish- 
Amorlcan and World War; Saturday, 
Groator Virginia Day (commercial 
floats).
Bill was right about the slumbering 
Sophs. It .strikes, him that had it 
not been for the thoughtfulness of the 
Juniors and Seniors some of the 
Sophs might still bo slumbering, but 
it would be that peaceful sleep from 
which there is no awakening.
The 'Plebes did attempt something 
original when the kite bearing their 
numerals rose to the breeze during 
the noon hour several days ago. To 
say the least things looked pretty 
cloudy for the few Sophs who had 
enough spirit to respond to the call. 
Every one will agree that the Sopho­
mores were unable to cope, unaided, 
with the mutinous crew.
Tradition alone was probably re­
sponsible for the Plebes submitting 
after they had had their fun. This 
fcoupled with the timely interference 
of the upper classmen saved many a 
Soph from a watery destination.
But tho Sophs always win. You 
know that. They congregated in 
groups and as the Plebes alone and 
one by one left for home "after class, 
they chastised him. Half a score or 
more Sophs were actually able to 
make a Plebe walk across the Cut to 
the tune of “No Metal Can Touch 
You.”
Plebes, you have the spirit and the 
organization which the class above 
you lacks. You scored this time. 
Watch your step.
Sophomores, there was an excuse 
for you last year, but now you’re 
Sophs, you know your duty. No other 
Plebe class in the history of the 
school had the Sophs guessing as had 
tlie Plebes of '25.
Recent Issue of Journal 
Contains Articles by Faculty
The third number of the Carnegie 
Technical Journal appeared on the 
campus Tuesday, April 4, and those 
who secured a copy will admit that it 
is the best issue that has yet been 
published. The editors of the Journal 
are doing theiiv utmost' to improve 
each issue and to make it a truly 
worth-while technical paper, but, in 
order to secure the best results, the 
student body must give them greater 
co-operation and support.
This issue of the Carnegie Techni­
cal Journal contains articles which 
should be Interesting to all engineer- 
ing students because they deal with 
matter which an engineer encounters 
In his daily work and because they 
portray the future work of the' engi­
neering student. The article by W. 
P. Hirschberg, president of the Fed­
eral Engineering Company, Milwau­
kee, Wis., on the problems facing an 
engineering student on graduation, 
merits the attention of all prospective 
engineers.
Prof. J. N. James, head of the De­
partment of Chemical Engineering, 
lias contributed an article on “Some 
New Petroleum ’ Products,” which 
should especially interest tho chemi­
cal engineer, as it treats of a practical 
phase of the oil industry. Major J. F. 
Bell, Corps of Engineres, U. S. A., 
gives a brief outline, with sketches 
and graphs, of tho development of 
traffic on the Monongahela river and 
suggests Improvements which should 
bo made on the upper pools of the 
An article on ¦ "Business 
Cycles," by Paul W. Ennnel, a Car- 
Tocli engineering graduate, now 
tho Collins Service, Philadelphia, 
gives graphical methods of studying 
tlio fluctuations of conditions in tlio 
business world.
Prof. W. R. Work, of tho Depart- 
of Electrical Engineering, has. 
In tills/ issue, a condeflsed table of 
exponential functions which will 
valuable to tlio electrical engl- 
in tho determination of exponen­
tials and hypehbolic functions. Jose 
Poloms, Senior Mechanical, de­
scribes with pictures, the Sperry
Ever since I was a kid, I've always 
heard my people say, “My lad, if you 
must lose, lose good; believe us, 
that’s the only way. For when your 
luck Is running poor, just meet re­
verses with a smile; for luck, like 
worms, will turn some day, and so will 
yours after awhile."
Good winner is another term that’s 
just as much to be desired, a quality 
that’s in a man which every other 
man admires. It is not spoken of so 
much, but did you ever realize, the 
fellow whom you want to win is one 
whose head stays down to, size?
When I at last pass in my checks, 
my carcass it wrapped in a shroud, 
f I could have this epitaph upon my 
grave I'd sure be proud:
"Beneath this sod a sinner lies,
He died in a forgetful mood;
Just one good quality he had,
That is, he was a Winner Good.”
The pre-vacation fracas, between 
the Plebes and a couple of Sophs, 
was anything but an event to be de­
sired. At least in the form, or rather 
lack of form, under which it took 
place. Just a general melee with no 
end. In view except/ The tank. 
For a few recalcitrant. Ones. A i 
number of Plebes met this fate. Al­
though the number of Sophs. Who 
should have accompanied them. Were 
in far greater numbers.
Now how did it start. And what was 
it all about. Is there any one who 
knows. Was it just for the purpose. 
Of spoiling the grass. Or exercising 
the hose. Or showing pour girl. How 
nice it was. To get your shirt all 
ripped. And your clothes torn off your 
back. Or maybe to be an official. To 
break up the more. Serious scrap.
Such unorganized. Unregulated. Un­
necessary. Scraps. Do not promote. 
Carnegie spirit. But rather create. 
Local hatred and enmities. Which be­
come quite lasting. And dangerous to 
a unified Carnegie. If we must have a 
safety valve. For class rivalry be­
tween tlie two. Lower classes. Let us 
conduct it. In a manner more colle­
giate.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MEN’S FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
A number of colleges. Use the or­
ganized rush. For the defense of a. 
Flag. Cane. New iS'opli hat. A-spot on 
the campus. Or other traditional ob­
ject. But the rush is organized. Su­
pervised. Regulated. And planned. By 
the local governing. Student council. 
It) provides a means. Of giving vent. 
To the rival feelings. Of the two 
classes. At periodic. Intervals. A code 
of sportsmanship. It traditionally es­
tablished. And the feelings. Of all. 
After the rush. Is generally most 
friendly. The casualties are few. The 
whole thing is more satisfactory. And 
school spirit benefits. Greatly. Let’s 
get away. From this rough-neck Bcrap- 
plng. And down to the standards of 
American Colleges.
f.....JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY \
.j. CRAIG AND FORBES STREET A 
V Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year. V
X BELL PHONE X 
i* Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
X A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL *
f SKI BO INN |
| Remodeled and £ 
£ Enlarged g
| MISS O’LEARY
? CLEANING AND PRESSING 
! Ladies’ and Men’s Clothes.
¦ Call Schenley 389. 
j 3933 FORBES STREET
u l i.I i-cYiN, ...
¦k WHOLESOME X
CAAM :j:
1 Served at best prices '4 
| CIGARS CANDY |
H A R R V ’ S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
COMMISSIONS FOR R. O. T. C.
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
Corps: Frank Loon Balthazar,
orn Michael Froy.
(7)—To tho Chief of Staff,
Dlv., Org. Res., Columbus 
Columbus, Ohio. Corps of Engineers:
Ta.ppan iColllns. Motor 
Corps: Louis Goorgo Gottfrlod
Molt.
(S) -To the Chief of Staff,
Dlv., Org. 29LCA 8929 Butlor 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Corps of Engineers:
William Itobort Cutlmorc, .Innios Ken­
neth Elliott, Julius Joseph Pan nek,
Sydney Goodsell Richards, Earl Gas- 
kill ltoyston. Motor Transport Corps: ¡Coml>puii<l Ulosel Englno nnd com- 
Tlioums Josopll Ktdklor. Slgnall1’111'08 11 "'lth 1,10 Single nnd Com- 
Corps Unit: .lolin Beatty Mooro. pound RVEGSVLC Prof. S. E. Dibble, oC
(9)—To tlio Chief of Stull, 79til| 0 Collogo ot Industries, gives the
Dlv., Schuylkill Arscntul, Phlladel-|rQ??1ia, ot 8erloa ot <"iportant ‘ests 
phla, Pn. Corps of Engineer»: Mer- "1,10,1 ,m™ 0 uml8r his >Ul'e0‘
lyil Fowler Stephens. Slgnul Corps fr l° th° °f «tu-
Unit: William Curtis' Seuley, MUtonl“’1^8 J°llltins compounds for vitri-
Predorlck Itlchenbnlcer. * S°"'n P,Pe-- ,
(10)—To the Chief of Staff, 02nd ar,tIoles ,lnrnv niv 07 w «. |paper which is rapidly becoming anCay. DI>„ 27 W Washington. street,Lltegm, nnd balanclng. part otbc,u,
neerT* Tohn 2 ¿?^,' negie Tech school life. As a technical
Corns TTnlt * t'oIqo Y 6 i F school, we should support a technical Corps Unit: Lessesne Richardson journal Th0 only way t0 makQ
Carnegie Technical Journal the best 
of its kind is for the students to give 
it their whole-hearted support. Do 
not end your activity in this respect 
by just securing your copy, but talk it 
up—get that individual interested who 
hasn’t read the Journal. Show him 
its good points, and forget its fail­
ings; for, with the aid of the faculty 
and the students, the staff of the 
Journal will eliminate all Its short­
comings and make it the best college 
technical paper there is.
CAMPUS WEEK 
-----------------is COMING
PREPARE!- Send Your Ideas I 
and Suggestions to the Committee 
Cy Unzicker, Tech P. O.
PILAR INCLINE
CITY OF BAHIA. BRAZIL
B
AHIA is divided into an Upper and 
a Lower City. One section is on the 
top of a cliff—the other extends between the 
foot of the cliff and the waterfront.
Four Otis Electric Elevators in two large 
vertical towers and the Otis Incline Railway 
pictured here, carry the people and freight 
up and down tlie cliff. The Incline Railway 
is built at an angle of 40 degrees; there arc 
two cars working alternately, each with a 
capacity of 20 people and 1500 pounds 
freight and the trip is made in 90 seconds.
Otis engineering has successfully linked these 
two parts of Bahia. This achievement, big 
as it is, is but one significant detail of the 
world-wide service given by Otis.
Allison.
PROMINENT MEN WILL
ASSEMBLE AT CONFERENCE
Oakland Community House
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers.PAAG EATWOHCRONI
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings.
“Just visit.”
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes............................10:00 A. M.
Quiet ....... t...........................Sunday afternoon **
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young people’s meeting...........5:30-7:30 P. M. s
Information and friendly help any time. |
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS 
rBH5iaa5EJ5EI5ia5J5fSf5J5J5I5H5EI5EEI5GySJSH5EH5i5i5EEfSJ5EEI5Jc
(Continued From Page One.-*
A. W. Shaw, president, A. W. Shaw 
Company, Chicago; Charles A. Stone, 
Stone & Webster, New York City; 
A. E. Dinwiddle, president Tulane 
University, New Orleans and E. M. 
Herr, president of the Westingliouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Company, 
Pittsburgh,
Dr. Swiggert is due to arrive in 
Pittsburgh this week to assist in the 
conference plans in conjunction with 
ofilcials at Carnegio Institute of Tech­
nology.
In addition to a national commit­
tee which includes representatives of 
all interested in Commorcial Engin­
eering, an Advisory Committee of 
prominent Pittsburgh men has been 
Invited to serve. Tho members are: 
Mayor W. A. MaReo, E. M. llorr, A. 
\V. Thompson, Homer D. Williams, 
Samuol A. Taylor. R. M. Mellon, 
James A. McCrea, William L. Clause, 
John S. Bowman, Goorgo S. Davison. 
Dr. William M. Davidson, William J. 
Jones, A. C. Fielder, A. I. Humphrey. 
William M. Walker, Julius Kennedy, 
Ralph W. Harbinson, Samuel Mund- 
lielrn, Hurry Graham, John R. Me- 
Cune, A. E. Braun, James B. Yolie, 
George M. Macrum, W. W. Mudgo,1 
Rev. Ralph L. Hays, W. M. Church, 
William Frew, John S. Herron, 
Frank L. Lanalian, Augustus Iv. Oli­
ver, John L. Porter, Judge James I-I. 
Reed and G. I. Scaife.
The program for the two days lias 
been outlined, but no announcement 
of speakers lias yet been made. Each 
day there will be a morning and af­
ternoon session. Monday night a
The Other One.
Altruism Is a game two must play 
at, and it must ,be played cheerfully. 
You must not try to be altruistic all 
the time, you must take your turn 
being the other. It Is your duty to 
make him happy, and It Is equally Ills 
duty to make you happy. You must 
give him the opportunity. If you re­
nounced the “miserable alms that end 
with self,” It Is praiseworthy In him 
to do the same. Encourage him to 
have worthy alms that end In you.— 
Samuel McOhord Grothers In "Among 
Friends."
smoker on the campus is scheduled 
and a banquet will dose tho conven­
tion on Tuesday night.
Tho discussion topics are: May 1,
morning; "Current Practices in Col­
leges and Universities Relating to 
Business Training for Engineers and 
Engineering Training for Business 
Men’1; afternoon. "Co-ordination of 
College Training with Industrial De­
mands”; May 2, morning, "Civic and 
Social Training of the Engineer and 
the Business Men’’; afternoon, group 
conference on each of the above and 
also on “Training of the Engineer 
for the Management of Over-Seas 
Engineering Projects.”
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Office* in all Principal Citici of ibc World
MURAD
EDS EY,L19D 21X&,SEES
Every day MURADS art held 
higher in the estimation of the men 
who smoke them.
They are the standard of Taste.
They never disappoint—never 
fail—never change—
They are 100% pure Turkish to­
bacco—of the finest varieties grown.,
You are proud to smoke them 
in any company—on any occasion.
They are the largest, selling high- 
grade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers of America 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
Judge for Yourself -

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1922
PLAID ATHLETICS
Let’s survey the prospects for our 
varsity team. Some of our last 
year’s first string men have taken 
advantage of the asphalt courts in 
various parts of the city. If you ex­
pect to try out for a position on 
the team let your name and experi­
ence be lcnown to Colonel Brooks-. If 
you can produce the goods you may 
bo sure that the Colonel will be im­
partial in his choice for the squad. 
Through graduation wo lose Captain 
Ilarkness and Schemertz, but will 
hear more from them during Campus 
Week when the alumni play this 
year’s team.
As a nucleus about which the 
Colonel will form his now squad 
there are Captain Neville, Keil and 
Schwartz, all three letter men from 
last year’s tri-state championship 
team.
Our schedule has a few pending 
dates due to cancellation. On ac­
count of financial difficulties Bethany 
announced that they must drop ten­
nis as an intercollegiate sport this 
year. That leaves us with thirteen 
matches, among which are Syracuse, 
West Virginia. Lehigh, Wasli.-Joff, 
Bucknell and Michigan, which in it­
self forms a most interesting sched­
ule.
PROSPECTS GOOD AS 
TENNIS SEASON NEARSPLAID WINS FIRST 
GAME OF BASEBALL
the job in good style, and ought to 
fill the position satisfactorily. Hed- 
lund is a conscientious worker, show­
ing good fielding ability, but is a bit 
weak with the willow. With sound 
coaching by Enos Kirkpatrick, it is 
expected he will develop into an im­
portant cog in the Plaid machine. 
Ray Doherty continues to hold down 
first base, and it seems useless for 
any aspirant to try and oust him. 
His game this year is even better 
than last season, when it was ranked 
good. Our old friend ‘'Red’ Godden is 
holding down, ose of the outfield jobs, 
aided by Joe Mills', a one time aspi­
rant for mound duty, and McCaw, 
alternating with Cappe,. both good 
pitchers who can hit, and snag in the 
flies, which explains their usefulness. 
They, when on trips, can be used reg­
ularly as outfielders, and when calam­
ity befalls the regular moundsmen, 
can offer them first class relief. The 
catching assignment naturally falls to 
“Al” Irwin. Without a doubt, Irwin 
is one of the best catchers seen in 
collegiate ranks of this or any other 
section of the country. “Red” God­
den, will act as relief hurler.
All in all the team is composed of 
a terrifying array, of sluggers, who 
are enough to cause any pitcher to 
worry quite a bit. Everyone of them 
can be counted upon to hit the old 
pill for close to the three century 
mark.
But, to get back to the games of 
this week, last season, West Virgin­
ia succeeded in annexing 3 out of 3 
games, from the Plaid. The scores 
were 7-1, 10-2, and 4-0. The first two 
games were played in Morgantown. 
wrhile the last was played on the Car­
negie Tech diamond. As the scores 
show the weakness of the last year 
Tartan team was in the pitching box. 
This weakness has been repaired in 
such a manner as to make the pitch­
ing department on a par with the 
strength of the rest of the team. 
Smith, a newcomer, is showing the 
real goods, and with a little addition­
al training, ought to hold his own 
against any of them. He will be ably 
supported by Warrick, Weiss, Cappe, 
and McCaw of last year’s team.
2 BASEBALL GAMES 
THIS WEEK AT W.VA,BY H. F. SIMPSONAll racquet enthusiasts are opto- 
mistio enough to believe that the 
heavy spring rains are over. Come 
what may the courts are in good 
condition and the managers are anx­
ious to see them played on. Why? 
This is a sport in which the player 
receives the maximum amount of ex­
orcise and pleasure from the mini­
mum amount of time and expense.
If your racquet needs stringing do 
it. now or at least get it out to use. 
The spring tournament and try outs 
are not far oil’ so got the jump on 
the other follow and practice at 
every vacant 'period. You may not 
be a Tilden in one season but you 
can help stimulate the sport and at 
the same time work out the spring 
fever germ.
There is no reason why wo 
shouldn’t also develop tenuis players 
out. of our girls, and there is no rea­
son why we shouldn’t in time, if not 
next season, have a girls’ tenuis 
team. There are some good players 
among the girls, so take a chance 
and challenge them to a match.
Defeat Westminster Easily 
by 8-3. Smith Pitches 
Good Game
Tartans Hope to Annex 
Couple More. Team 
Looks Good
OVER THE HOLIDAYS
We couldn’t go home for the vacation, so did the next best thing—stuck 
around the campus, and watched.
We saw these things:
First, we had the pleasure of watching the baseball team knock West­
minster for the proverbial goal. ’Twas a great start—-there’s no denying 
that! The team showed up great in every department. The hitting strength 
was something worth while! The fielding was good.-and when one takes 
into consideration the condition of the field; well—their fielding was fine! 
And the pitching of Smith—it was the best Carnegie Tech has had in many 
a day!
The Plaid Screen feels that a great season is in store for us in all 
branches of spring sports. Coach Kirkpatrick has welded together a great 
baseball team. Hal Iddings has the greatest track team in the history of 
the school. Colonel Brooks has the makings of another championship team. 
Forsooth, it does seem as if we might yet get to print that caption, “SIX­
TEEN SUCCESSIVE VICTORIES”! So far we have to our credit eleven 
straight victories—get that: ELEVEN STRAIGHT! This is for the informa­
tion of the spring sport teams, hoping they will be inspired to carry on with 
additional efforts. Really, there is no reason why we should stop at SIX­
TEEN!
Carnegie Tech baseball team got 
off to a gooct start by defeating the 
Westminster College nine by the 
score of S to 3, on the new field on 
the afternoon of April S. Both teams 
put up a rather slow game because 
of the soggy field.
The Carnegie lineup was greatly 
changed from that of last year. Joe 
Doherty was moved over to the short 
field and Durkin was brought in to 
the hot corner. Rube Hediund held 
down second base and Ray Doherty 
was at liis old station. The outfield 
was also shifted about, “Skinny" 
McCaw was in right field, Warrick 
in middle, and Shook in left. Al 
Irwin was behind the 'bat and Smith, 
a newcomer, was on the mound. This 
lineup, however, is not by any 
means the one for the rest of the 
season as "Red’’ Godden was out 
because of an injury and Joe Mills, 
Cappe and Robertson are now eligi­
ble, having removed their deficiencies 
at mid-semester.
The game was slow throughout, al­
though there were several plays 
worthy of note. In the first inning, 
Joe Doherty was on third when Al 
Irwin lined a vicious drive at Camp­
bell, the Westminster third sacker, 
who s'peared it and dived into third 
for an unassisted double play. It 
was one of the prettiest plays ever 
seen on a Tech diamond and Camp­
bell received a good hand for it. 
Granger, the Westminster captain 
and shortstop, turned in a pretty 
shoestring catch, and Joe Doherty 
also pulled a pretty play when he 
scooped out a hard liner and made 
the play at first.
The real feature of the game was 
the hitting of the Tartan nine. They 
seemed to hit anything the opposing 
pitchers could offer. Guthrie, who 
started for Westminster, was lifted 
in the fifth inning, and Cleary, who 
succeeded him, was in hot water all 
the time. Two-base lilts were fre­
quent, tho Carnegie stickors getting 
live all told.
Smith, pitching his first game for 
Carnegie Tech, showed lota of stuff, 
Ice oping tho hits well scattorod. 1-Ie 
had eight strlkoo'uts to his orodil. 
Tho only Westminster man to con­
nect regularly was Brown, tho right 
fielder, who had three hit.» in as 
many trips t.o tho plate. The rest 
of tho Westminster team wore easy 
for Smith, who had thorn swinging 
wildly.
Score by innings:
After a successful start to their 
baseball season, the Plaid diamond 
stars mil tackle their old diamond 
enemies, West Virginia University in 
two games at Morgantown. These 
games ought to bring out the best of 
the season, and the winner should 
only be declared after close games. 
Heretofore, the Morgantown tossers 
have won out, but this year, it seems 
as if the tables might be turned. But 
there is not a single note of overcon­
fidence; withal, there is plenty of con­
fidence. The team ‘believes in it­
self, and has a right to do so, for 
without a doubt, Coach Enos Kirk­
patrick has gathered together, and 
welded into a most formidable team, 
the most promising bunch of ball play­
ers ever to have graced the Carne­
gie Tech diamond.
The lineup will be different from 
that of last year in many respects, 
but at the same time, very few new 
faces will be seen. Coach Kirkpat­
rick has shifted his men around in 
such a manner, that it seems as if 
the best position for each man has 
been assigned.
For instance, Joe Doherty, last 
year’s second' baseman, has been 
shifted to shortstop, which is prov­
ing day by day a wise move, for with­
out a doubt, “Little Joe” is the surest 
¦man on the squad when it comes to 
picking up fast grounders, and get­
ting the ball off to first in record 
time. Joe is, as last season, lead-off 
man—this because of two reasons, his 
natural hitting ability, and the fact 
that his small stature makes him an 
especially hard man to pitch to. Dur­
kin, last year in center field, is found 
this year covering the hot corner of 
the infield in jam-uup style, and is ex­
pected to have his best season. A 
man, new to the varsity, but exper­
ienced as a ball player is found on 
second base in place of 
Joe Doherty. Hediund so far 
has shown he can handle
A BENCH WARMER SAYS:
Little Joe Doherty ran way back of third base and snagged a foul fly, 
for the prettiest play of the game.
McCaw hit a triple, a double and a single—all good solid blows, too.
Joe Mills hit a double and two singles.
Durkin and Joe Doherty collided trying to get their hands onto a high 
fly—neither one got it.
“Red” and “Al” double-crossed the rest of the team and didn't connect 
even once.
Smith pitched good ball—Cappe didn’t get a full chance to show wrhat he 
could do—his game only went two sessions.
In the Westminster game, Campbell of Westminster made the prettiest 
play of the game, when he snagged "Al” Irwin’s hot liner, and beat Joe 
Doherty back to third base for a neat double play.
Understand the Plaid football team for nineteen twenty-two is going to 
step out in glaring red jerseys and stockings. Psychological reasons are 
quoted.
Red signifies “DANGER”—here’s hoping it proves that way!
Speaking of a conference—how ’bout an All-Pennsylvania Conference? 
There could be included such schools as Penn State, Penn, Pitt, Carnegie 
Tech, Wash-Jeff, Bucknell, Lehigh, Lafayette and Swartliniore.
What’s the matter, PITT? Are Southern teams too strong for you?
SOME MORE OF “OVER THE HOLIDAYS”
We got side-tracked before finishing this subject.
Have you taken a look at the baseball diamond, the tennis courts and 
the football field? Progress has-been made on all three. The diamond is 
beginning to resemble a baseball field—the tennis courts are in almost per­
fect shape—the football field is progressing nicely—plans for the new gym 
are being drawn up fast (maybe we’ll live to see work actually started, who 
knows?)
Credit for work performed on the baseball diamond and tennis courts 
must be given to a mere handfull of managers who stuck around over the 
holidays to do this necessary work. They showed the stuff of which mana­
gers are made and are deserving of a bit of extra credit.
They are: Assistant tennis managers, Rogers, Kreistle and Fergorson,
Manager “Bob” Nation of baseball, and his assistants, Schoerke, Powrie, 
Henninger and Craighead.
Aside from these, certain students not out for manager jobs helped work 
on the tennis courts—perhaps through a desire to play, but nevertheless,
the fact remains, they worked. They are Selleclc, Sealey and Fitzsimmons.
Maybe if more tennis players did some of this, the old game would prospor 
even more.
Face Flora. Whiskers 
is inelegantI
F a Prof. taught a course in Whisker 
Crops and their Removal, he’d probably 
call them Face Flora.
Is there an easier way to remove them— 
the whiskers, not the profs.?
Razor edges were never keener than they 
arc today. - Then why do some shaves still 
make the tears come? Especially tender 
upper lips and chin corners?
Here is plain reasoning: Hairs can't pull it 
they’re properly softened by the light lather. Any 
lather won’t do. You know that. Williams’ Shav­
ing Cream softens the toughest bristle. Its un­
usually heavy lather _^<©3Siai»w
softens the beard ilozvn to 
its very base. Few soaps 
can do that.
Try it justoncc—and  W/ / “k '
you will never be with- /' 
out Williams’ Shaving r .
Cream near your razor. / ¡Sr u/
I ¿C Trv it—
/ J tomorrow boforo
' jy clmpol.
Now—and Then.
When a young man meets a girl and 
falls in love with her, he should avoid 
saying, as one used to say, "Will you 
be mine?” It is more tactful in these 
days to whispor. “Mn.v T be yours?”
WHITE SHIRTS NOW
THEY’RE RIGHT!
TYSON ARROW ROTARY
Collar attached and neckband styles—$2.00 to $3.50. 
SPECIAL 
The famous Cheney Silk Mills Cravats—75c, $1.15, $1.35.
Davies & lioghes
“DEPENDABLE”
HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES Phone Schenley 5468 M. Next to Strand Theater.
Let’s hand the Mountaineers a row of eighteen goose-eggs!
And while you’re doing it, be sure that W. Va. don’t treat you the same 
!
A double-win is what we want!
GO AND GET IT!
He: “Why didn’t you answer my 
loiter?
She: “I never received it.
He: "You didn’t?
She: “No, and besides I didn’t like 
some of the things you said in it”— 
Burr.
CARNEGIE NINE DEFEATS 
W. VA. WESLEYAN, 10-7
The Plaid baseball nine came pret­
ty close to annexing both ends, of a 
double header last Saturday after­
noon at the expense of West Vir­
ginia Wesleyan. The first game 
went to the Tartans, 10 to 7, while the 
second was on its way to the same 
persons, when it was called in order 
to permit Carnegie Tech to catch a 
train for home. Tho score at that 
time was 2 to 0, with Cappe in the 
box, and hurling tho old pill in a 
masterful sityle.
But, to get back to the game that 
was played. Smith , was tossing tho 
a'pple over for the proteges of 
Coach Kirkpatrick, and needless to 
say, ho had plenty of stuff on tho 
old ball. This is shown by tho fact 
that he made ten men whiff the 
ozone three times. His hits were well 
scattered, and scores by Wesleyan 
were only made after the Plaid had 
the game sewed up.
The brightest feature of the fame 
was the terrific slugging of the bat- 
ters: J. Doherty, R. Doherty, J.
Mills, McCaw and Smith, each man­
aged to drive out three hits, Mc­
Caw driving one of his for three 
bases, another for two, and the other 
went for only one. Mills also 
knocked the old pill far enough to 
get around to the keystone sack. 
Durkin chimed in for one hit, while 
the remaining members of the team 
went hitless.
Carnegie scored five times in the 
second frame on successive hits by 
I McCaw, Smith, R. Doherty, Durkin 
’ and Mills, with J. Doherty coming in 
with a walk. Another tally was add­
ed in the fourth, when Smith, J. Do­
herty and R. Doherty drove out sin­
gles in rapid succession. Two more 
were added in the eighth, when Mc­
Caw opened up with a double, fol­
lowed by a single by J. Doherty. 
Singles by McCaw, (Smith, J. and R. 
Doherty added two more in the 
ninth.
Wesleyan scores came in the first, 
seventh and ninth. With one down 
in the first inning, Johnson received 
four wide ones, and came {iome on 
singles by Monahan and Beech Dunn. 
In the seventh, Young received life, 
when Durkin hobbled his grounder. 
He came home together with Lo- 
rentz, Johnson and Monahan, when 
the latter three singled. In the 
ninth, Wesleyan added her final two 
tallies, upon a triple by Ross, a life 
given. Knight when Hediund erred, 
and Hillard and Alexander, pinch- 
hitting for B, Dunn and Swisher, 
drove out singles. .
In the second game, Cappe was 
holding Wesleyan, tight, and at tho 
same time, Carnegie Tech batters 
were knocking them hard. In the 
second, they proceeded to sew the 
game up, when, with one down, Ir­
win was safe on an error by Leets, 
in left field. Hediund made the sec­
ond out, but MctCaw came across 
with a triple, followed by a double 
by Cappe, which drove over the two 
| runs.
Carnegie Tech.........1 0 1 0 8 1
Westminster .........0 1 0 0 0 0
Summary:
Two-base lilts—Irwin, Warrick, 
Hediund, J. Doherty, Durkin, Gold- 
Btrolim.
Base on balls—'Smith 1, Guthrie 2, 
Cleario 3.
Double iplays—Campbell (imuuslHl- 
cd.)
Struck out—Smith 8, Guthrie '¿, 
Cleario 1.
Hit by pitcher—Smith (Hoozlo )
TECH 8TATIONER 
NEWS, CIGAR8, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENSC. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES 8TREET
This Junior is learning
to be a banker
J
F you are putting in three hours a day in the electrical 
lab, don’t be surprised twenty years later to find your­
self promoting a public utility bond issue. Or if you start 
in newspaper work, as like as not later on you will turn to 
manufacturing or advertising or law.
You don’t know where opportunity or inclination will 
lead you. This fact l\as a great deal to do with your work 
at college—not so much the things you learn as the way 
you learn them.
Don’t think of education as a memory test in names and 
dates and definitions. That knowledge is important, but 
onl}- as an incidental. Of far greater value is the habit of 
getting at underlying laws, the basic principles which tie facts 
together.
The work of the pioneers in electrical experiment, at 
first glance confusing, is simplified once you realize that 
much of it hinged upon a single chemical phenomenon, the 
action of the voltaic cell.
Analyze your problems. Look for fundamentals. Learn 
to connect a law or an event, with what went before and what 
comes after. Make your education a training in logical 
thinking.
This ability to think straight, whether acquired in 
Engineering or .Arts, is the biggest tiling you can get at 
college. Its aid as a means to success applied equally to 
whatever work you take up—since mental processes are the 
same everywhere. It is the power which enables a mechanic 
to become sales manager, a lawyer to head a great industrial 
organization. Develop it, if you would be ready when your 
big opportunity comes.
In Medicine
W
HEN you get out into the medical world, you’ll find 
young doctors are judged by something more than 
diagnostic ability and knowledge of their subject. The at­
mosphere of success pl,ays its part—the evidence that you 
have “arrived.” And among the little details that indicate 
success, there’s the habit of preferring
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
y Published in \
the interest of Elec­
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what- 
ever helps the 
V Industry.
Remember thatMclachrino is a masterblend 
of the finestTurlcishTobaccoK as originated 
byMiltiadesMelnchrino, Egyptian cigarettes 
are simply those chat originated in Egypt. 
But the tobacco is what you want to know 
about—and if it’s Melachrino—it's right.
The executives of this Company have been 
chosen from all branches of the organization. 
It doesn’t make much difference where you 
learn to think straight, so longas you learn.

---------------------------------------------------

Sons Co., East Liverpool, Ohio, wìhIiqb 
to annnounce that ho has recently 
accepted) a poaltlon a» porcelain en­
gineer with the WéStinghouse Elec­
tric and Manufacturing Company. Ilia 
reHldon'ce addroöH in Pittsburgh hi 
3317 Dawson Street.
M. M. C. Alumnae to 
Hold Card Party
CARNEGIE GRADUATE
WITH WE3TINGH0USEState-Tech Alumni 
Party on April 22
A prominent Pittsburgh manufac­
turing concern will have a steady 
year round position open June 1st for 
a graduate woman chemist, straight 
analytical work, in a modern well- 
equipped laboratory, located in the 
central part of the city—one who has 
a practical knowledge of mineral oils, 
fatty oils and their compounds.
Apply by letter, stating age, experi­
ence and salary expected. Address P. 
L., this paper.—Adv.
Mr. O. M. Whistler, graduate of 
science 1020, who has been connected 
jn the capacity of Assistant Electri­
cal Engineer with tho It. Thomas &Campus Week, May 25 th, 26th, 27 th
Alumni Banquet, Sat. Eve., May 27
English Room, Fort Pitt Hotel
Annual Scholarship Benefit 
Will be Held at the 
Fort Pitt April 22
Alumni of Two Schools 
Hold Joint Luncheon 
at the Fort Pitt
The annual card party for the ben­
efit of the sdidiarship fund will be held 
at 2:30 o'clock, Saturday, April 22, in 
the Assembly Room of the Fort Pitt 
Hotel. Tho object of holding the 
benefit at tho Fort Pitt instead of on 
the campus Is to facilitate attendance 
for suburban members and thus in­
crease our profits. Also to make It 
possible for our members to attend 
the Clan luncheon which will be held , 
in the same hotel at 12:80 o'clock. 
This luncheon Is to bo held jointly 
with the Penn State Alumni who are 
our very good friends, and It is ex­
pected that several hundred will be 
present. There will be music and 
special entertainment and an excep­
tionally good time. Why not make a 
day of It and attend both functions? 
You will eat 'lunch some place—why 
not the Fort Pitt instead of McCree- 
ry’s? 'Come and see what a live bunch 
of Tech boosters we have.
Como to the benefit anyway and 
bring a friend with you, male or fe­
male, Tech alumni or otherwise. Gen­
tlemen are invited to this benefit, al­
so the genoral. public. We need the 
money iror more scholarships. Call up 
Mrs. Carl E. Clock, 622 Whitney ave­
nue, Wllldnsburg, and make your be­
lated reservations. Everybody out! 
Let’s show the town what a real col­
lege benefit is like.
Tickets $1.00 each; tables ?4.00, 
including refreshments.
Students, to get a reliable fountain 
pen, Eversharp pencil, “Tech” recog­
nition or seal pin, brief case, school 
ring, personal stationery, etc., should 
call at tho Singer Penn and Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
The next big date on the calendar 
for the Pittsburgh Clan is April 22. 
when Penn State and Carnegie Tech 
Alumni will meet in the English Room 
of the Fort Pitt Hotel for a joint 
party. This party will be in the 
form of a luncheon and will begin 
promptly at 1 P. M. The committee 
is composed of Mr. George Dike, pres­
ident of the Pittsburgh Branch of the 
Penn State Alumni, Mr. W. N. Given, 
Secretary-Treasurer Pittsburgh Branch 
of the Penn State Alumni, Mr. J. C. 
Hobbs, President of the Pittsburgh 
Clan and Mr. J. W. Batman, Secre­
tary Pittsburgh Clan, met last Wed­
nesday and outlined a program for 
this meeting.
The speakers for the day will be ; 
the Honorable H. W. Mitchell, judge , 
of the Orphans Court in Pittsburgh ' 
and president of the Penn State 1 
Board of Trustees, a graduate of 
State, 1890, and Mr. J. JEL Leete, who 
is now Director of the Carnegie Pub­
lic Library and who for eleven years 
wag a member of the IStaff at State, 
then came to Carnegie Tech and was 
here for eleven years. Mr. Leete will 
be-able to act as a connecting link 
between the two institutions.
The Collegiate Six Orchestra will 
furnish the. music and provide enter­
tainment. This promises to be a great 
day for State and Tech Alumni and 
we are anxious to have every Tech 
man and woman in the City of Pitts­
burgh present. The idea of this meet­
ing is to become better acquainted 
with this neighboring institution and 
to promote intercollegiate affairs 
among the alumni in Western Penn­
sylvania.
The assessment for this party will 
be $1.10 per person. Remember one 
P. M. sharp, Saturday, April 22.
SYSTEMATIZE YOUR 
FINANCES
System in handling your 
income is essential.CLAN NEWSDeposit regularly — pay by 
check — periodically increase 
your saving account — set 
aside each month a fixed sum 
for investment.
Tomorrow’s Tie
CLAN NEWS
Are you on the job, Alumnus? Did 
you attend the last meeting of your 
Clan? Are you familiar with the 
work your clan is doing? Do you 
know who your Clan secretary is ? Do 
you expect to be back at Tech for 
Campus Week? These are vital ques­
tions that every graduate and former 
student in the various Clan cities 
should ask himself. In order that you 
may be an up-to-the-minute Tech man 
or woman it is necessary that you at­
tend the various Clan affairs. The 
Alumni Association is making this ap­
peal to you because we need your 
support and know that you will re­
ceive benefits from your Clan. If you 
are not already a member, get the 
name of the secretary from the Clan 
directory published every week in the 
Tartan and make application now. By 
all means put forth every effort to be 
on the campus for the three days of 
May 25, 26 and 27.
/Conrad, 343 Bryant avenue. Those 
present were Mr. and Mrs. Conrad, 
Elizabeth Gitt, Elizabeth Porter, Ag­
nes Russell. W. F. Kelly, Dick Town­
send, and Mary Zarobsky. The meet­
ing was more of a social gathering 
and therefore no business was trans­
acted. Miss Agnes Russell is now 
working at the Associated Charities, 
Fulton Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
English Twills make these 
bat-wing ties, in striking 
colour combinations, pro­
duced for the first time 
in America. Smart styles, 
original patterning—
We cordially welcome your 
account, even though it be 
small.
Capital and Surplus 
$12,000,000.
Tidewater Clan.
The Tidewater Clan of Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology held a very suc­
cessful "get together” last Saturday, 
April 1, 1922, at Norfolk, Virginia. 
The members assembled at the Bank 
of Commerce building at the office of 
the secretary and then adjourned to 
the Hotel Fairfax, where supepr in a 
private dining room was held. We 
learned that we had considerable mu­
sical talent in the organization and 
with the assistance of a victrola, bor­
rowed for the occasion, the Tech rec­
ord was played over and over and 
copies of the Tech songs distributed. 
It was one of the most enthusiastic 
meetings ever held. After a delight­
ful supper and short talks by some of 
the younger members, the Clan again 
adjourned to the Colonial theater, 
where box seats had been provided 
for a light, musical comedy. Every 
Tech man in Norfolk and Newport 
News was present and the only regret 
was that we did not have any visiting 
members with us. This is the only 
aggregation of college men in this 
vicinity which attempts to hold 
monthly meetings and dinners and 
that fact is becoming known and is a 
good advertisement of the Carnegie 
Tech spirit. W. B. Rudolph of Design 
School fame, has offered to the Clan 
the use of his cottage at Virginia 
Beach for the summer for whatever 
purposes they desire, and a commit­
tee has been appointed to investigate 
the advisability of regular week-end 
meeting?
Dancing
Every Saturday, 9 P. M. 
“THE 
RITTENHOUSE”
“Giles.” Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
“The Sextons”
All Genuine Cheney Cravats have 
the name stamped in the neckband
SOLD BY
C. A. HEIMERT, 3614 Forbes Street 
CHAS. OCH, Atwood and Forbes Sts.
NEW YORK CLAN 
New York City Clan Meeting.
Regular monthly get-together meet­
ing to be held on Tuesday, April 25, 
at G.:30 p. m., at Yoenig’s, Forty- 
ninth street and Broadway (Church­
ill's old place.) This- is an excep­
tionally good place to dance and 
has wonderful eats. Send reserva­
tions to J. Guter, 38 Park Row, New 
York City, Telephone Court 7506. If 
you are not sure until the last min­
ute drop in anyhow. Anyone visit­
ing New York at the time, drop in 
and get acquainted.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
ALUMNI COMMITTEE FOR 
CAMPUS WEEK APPOINTED
Remember the date of April 25, the 
next meeting of the New York Clan. 
This Is to be a social get-together, not 
a business meeting. There will be 
lots of eats, music and dancing. Any 
Tech man or woman in the City of 
Now York is cordially invited to at­
tend this meeting.
Alumni make plans to -be at Car­
negie Tech for Campus Week. May 
25, 26 and 27 are the dates selected 
at which time all Carnegie Tech 
alumni and friends will celebrate the 
third Annual Campus Week. Every­
one remembers what a wonderful cel­
ebration this was last yeai‘, the suc­
cess of which was greater than ever 
expected. Plans are now well under 
way for an even greater celebration 
this year. This is one time of the 
year set aside for alumni, therefore 
all Tech Alumni should make every 
effort to be present. It is the time 
for you to return to your Alma Mater 
for class reunions to meet your old 
friends and become better acquainted 
with the students now at Tech. The 
third annual alumni banquet will be 
held on Saturday, May 27, at 12 p. 
m. in the English room of the Fort 
Pitt Hotel. Plans are well under’way 
|to make this the biggest banquet we 
I have ever held. . There will be quite 
I a few notable men from the State of 
Pennsylvania present at this affair, 
w An attempt will also be made to get 
¡several members of the Carnegie 
Commission here. All amusements 
will be furnished by Tech talent and 
quite a few surprises will be in store 
for you.
Other important events that you 
cannot afford to miss are the qualid­
eation day exercises and tap day, 
fraternity sweepstakes, baseball 
games, tennis matches, dances, pa­
rades, Mardi Gras, theater party at 
Schenley.
Let May 25, 26 and 27 be your an­
nual visit to Tech. Campus Week is 
for you and it is up to YOU to be 
here.
The committees for Campus Week 
and the alumni banquet are as fol­
lows: Campus Week, G. L. Tilbrook, 
chairman, and F. J. Nuttall, Science; 
Mary Williams and Florence Bechtel, 
Margaret Morrison; L. H. Lee and J. 
W. Batman, Industries; Mrs. J. I. 
Johnson and Harry Aspinwall, Arts.
Alumni Banquet, J. W. Batman, 
chairman; G. L. Tilbrook, L. T. Kelly, 
Helen Stewart, Edna Smith, Mrs. J. 
I. Johnston and J. B. Sprague.
O. K. RESTAURANT
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUEYOUNGSTOWN CLAN
Monday,, April 10, Youngstown 
men's clan, invitecjJ the girls’ clan to 
meet with us at the Brittany Inn. The 
meeting place was changed from the 
Y. as the Brittany Inn is operated in 
part by Miss Adams, a former Marga- 
rot Morrison, girl, and we can say that 
we were served n very fine lunch.
We are indebted to "Bob” Waddell 
for tho talk of the evening, and those 
who turned out were treated to an 
ontlmslastlc “Carnegie Tech” talk. 
Youngstown clan wish to thank Mr. 
Waddell for the time and effort he 
devoted to our benefit.
The attendance of 27, shows that 
the interest in thin district is not lag­
ging, although some of tho girls were 
kept away by the very inclement 
weather that we had that evening.
Plans wore informally discussed for 
holding a joint meeting with the Penn 
State Alumni in this district. They 
have a mooting April 17, and the idea j 
will bo brought up for discussion.
THE CLAN—WHAT IS IT?
There seems to be some misunder­
standing among the girls as to what 
the Clan. is. The Pittsburgh Clan in­
cludes all Carnegie Tech graduates 
residing in tho Pittsburgh district. 
There aro noi dues.no hystic rites. To 
join you simply walk in and eat with 
tho bunch and inscribe your name in 
a little book carried by one “Pinky” 
Batman. If you like us, you pay two 
dollars to cover the cost of postage on 
tho notice that will be mailed to you 
monthly for the rest of your life. The 
luncheons are hold at a downtown 
hotel onco a month and questions of 
Interest to all Tech alumni are dis­
cussed. If you are Interested in the 
school, come and join us. Girls are 
welcome and there is always at least 
one table of Maggie Murplis, so you 
need not be lonesome. Come to the 
next luncheon Immediately preceding 
tho card party.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh.
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ............................8 to 9
|T y *rieres whyCAMELS arethe quality cigarette
ìhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhIhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhihhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhqbH
Tech Barber Shop |
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
§ 1 Fred Fargel, Proprietor | 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.BECAUSE we put the utmost quality into 
this one brand. Camels are as good as it’s 
possible for skill, money and lifelong knowledge 
of fine tobaccos to make a cigarette.
Nothing is too good for Camels. And bear 
this in mind! Everything is done to make 
Camels the best cigarette it’s possible to buy. 
Nothing is done simply for show.
Take the Camel package for instance. It’s the 
most perfect packing science can devise to pro­
tect cigarettes and keep them fresh. Heavy 
paper—secure foil wrapping—revenue stamp 
to seal the fold and make the package air-tight. 
But there’s nothing flashy about it. You’ll find 
no extra wrappers. No frills or furbelows.
Such things do not improve the smoke any 
more than premiums or coupons. And remember 
—you must pay their extra cost or get lowered 
quality.
If you want the smoothest, mellowest, mildest 
cigarette you can imagine—and one entix'ely free 
from cigaretty aftertaste,
It’s Camels for you.
TECH DAY AT THE FORT PITT!
ERIE CLAN
The Erie Clan is going to hold a 
luncheon on April 26, in honor of Dr. 
T. S. Baker. In the evening Dr. Ba­
ker will be the principal speaker at 
the banquet of the Senior Class of 
the Erie High School.
Tech-State luncheon at 12:30 in the 
English room.
Margaret Morrison benefit bridge 
at 2:30 in the assembljr room.
Make a day of it and get inoculated 
with the Tech virus!
Meet and eat with the Clan! Get 
your vamping equipment, girls, and 
see how many victims can be enticed 
into the card room.
Let's go.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service......... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
CINCINNATI Cl^AN
Tho last monthly meeting of the 
Cincinnati Clan was held April 6, 
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Sherman
INDUSTRIES BOARD OF
GOVERNORS MEETING
GENERAL FACULTY NOTICE
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
An important meeting of the Gen­
eral Faculty will be held in the De­
sign School on Wednesday, April 26, 
at 11:30 a. m. All members are urged 
to be present.
The monthly meeting of the Indus­
tries Board of Governors was held in 
the Alumni Office, Monday, April 3, at 
S p. m. Present: Messrs. Little, Kel­
ly, Ivontz, Miller, Rabenstein and Bat­
man. By proxy: Mr. Ingham. Ab­
sent: Messrs. Lee, Yost and Mesta.
The minutes of the meeting of Feb­
ruary 16 were accepted.
New Business: Question of elec­
tion of new officers for 1922-23 dis­
cussed.
Motion made, seconded and carried 
that the office of Vice President and 
the offices of the Board Members, Mr. 
Rablnsteln, Mr. Ingham and Mr. 'Mil­
ler, elected in 1920, be declared va­
cant In order to comply with the new 
by-laws of the association.
Motion made, seconded and carriod 
that tho nominating committee elect- 
od last year bo lcept intact with tho 
exception of R. P. Woodward, who is 
now out of Pittsburgh.
Motion made, seconded and carried 
that Mr. W. H. Oakley bo elected to 
the place made vacant by Mr. Wood­
ward.
Motion made, seconded and carried 
that tho Board recommend at the 
next meeting of the Alumni Federa­
tion the following:
First—Alumni registration booths 
for Campus Week.
Second—That badges be worn by 
the various Federation Board mem­
bers of the individual college asso­
ciations.
Meeting adjourned.
J. W. BATMAN,
I \ ; Secretary.
ALUMNI NOTESTHAT CARNEGIE TECH SONG
The Alumni office has just learn­
ed of the death of Mr. Casper Peppel, 
Industi’ies, r13, who was (seriously 
burned at his home and died ten days 
later in the West Penn Hospital. We 
extend our sympathy to his wife, Mrs. 
Louise Peppel.
It is a shame that in a school the 
size of Tech that we do not have a 
large set of school songs. It is a 
greater shame, however, that now 
that we realize this fault, and are 
trying to remedy it, that we get such 
a poor response to the call for 
songs.
Everyone of us has a warm spot 
in our hearts for our school and to 
do something that will praise it and 
make 1t seem more dear to us, is sure­
ly a lofty motive—yes, as lofty as 
playing football or basket ball for it. 
And as for reward, can. there be any­
thing greater than the approval of 
one’s college for work well done and 
your own satisfaction of having serv­
ed your school?
WRIGLEYS
Harold C. Knapp, Graduate Sci­
ence, 1919, is now connected with the 
Fiberland Corporation, Indian Or­
chard, Mass., as a chemist in their 
laboratory.
Mr. and Mrs. Irvin W. Humphrey 
announce tho birth of their daugh­
ter, Lyda Mary, on March 16, one 
thousand nine hundred and twenty- 
two, (nee Marguerite Iialdeman, M., 
'19.)
NewestCreation
Show Eggs Are All Right.
X-rayed eggs are the latest wrinkle 
Introduced by one of the largest gro­
cery organizations In the city. To 
satisfy patrons of tho purity and high 
quality of the eggs, it has installed 
in each branch store a patented con­
tainer having a capacity of three 
dozen with a separate place for each 
egg. The container is filled with eggs 
picked at random from a case, after 
which a brilliant electric light Is, 
turned on beneath the eggs, and any 
“rots or spots’’ are revealed at once. 
It is the ordinary system of candling 
eggs, but sounds better when called 
X-raying.—Ne»v York Evening Post.
Campus Week
is COMING
MIES MAY 25,26 27 
PLAN TO COME
Peppermint fla» ^ 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
“melts in your . 
mouth,” leaving ff 
the deliciously B 
flavored gum M 
center to aid n 
digestion, \ 
brighten teeth \ and soothe \ mouth and throat.
PUSWE
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, W
PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. APRIL 19, 1922
