TheTech Tartan
Volume 64 — Number 30Wednesday, May 20, 1964
Exec Council Elects 
Lindstrom President
The Executive Council has 
elected Gary Lindstrom as its 
president for the 1964-65 season.
The council is composed of 
eleven members not in Student 
Congress with the exception of the 
chairman of Student Congress: It 
reviews the proceedings of stu­
dent government and evaluates 
the government system at least 
once each academic year. It acts 
as liason between administration 
and student body on non-academ­
ic matters; it supervises all publi­
cation activity on campus and all- 
school* functions. Student Court 
members are ‘ appointed by the 
Council. ' .
Members of 1964-65 Executive,
• Council will be: Hank Werronen, 
CFP; Lynèlle Torno, Panhel; 
Hedda Bluestone, women’s dorm; 
Justin Polulack, men’s dorm; Ted 
Pierce,/scholsatic honoraries; Gary 
. Lindstrom, activities honoraries; 
Joe Sandulli, Congress Chairman; 
Bill Small, Pi D E; Pete Hotz, re­
ligious affairs and A1 Pollock, 
miscellaneous activities.
At the election,, outgoing pres­
ident Tom Miller-gave a “State of 
the Council*' message.
New president, Gary Lindstrom, 
feels that a more extensive use 
can be made of thé representative 
nature of Executive Council: 
“Rather than a group of indi­
viduals deliberating from personal 
viewpoints, we hope to maintain 
the atmosphere of an all-campus 
fot'um brought together to discuss 
matters pertinent to all.” Gary 
hopes that the relationship be­
tween the Council and the ad­
ministration “can be developed 
into an effective ’bridge between 
them and the student body.”
Gary Lindstrom
GSSA Students 
Given Awards
For the fifth consecutive year, 
students of the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration have 
been ’named among the winners in 
the Annual Ford Foundation’s 
competition 'for doctoral disserta­
tions in business administration 
and the related disciplines.
The Foundation has named 26 
winners in its five yéars of exis­
tence and eight of the award re­
cipients have been from GSIA, a 
record unmatched by any other 
school in the country.
This year’s winners were Oliver
E. Williamson and Frederick S. 
Hammer, who were seletted for 
dissertations completed in the 
1962-63 academic year. Both men 
received their Ph.D.’s from GSIA 
last June.
The purpose of the Ford com­
petition is to emphasize the im­
portance of doctoral dissertations 
of high quality prepared by grad­
uate students in business admin­
istration. It is intended to to pro­
vide widespread professional rec­
ognition for those students whose 
doctoral r'esearch is not confined 
to careful description of current 
business practice, but is disting­
uished by its analytical content 
and strong theoretical roots in the 
disciplines underlying the profes­
sion of business administration.
C-Book
All student organizations are 
urged to send a list of their offi­
cers for the 1964-65 school year to 
C-Book, Box 282. In addition, any 
organizations not listed in last 
year’s C-Book and wishing to be 
listed next year should notify A 
Phi O of this fact. Your coopera­
tion will help insure an early date 
of issue for the C-Book next fall;
Policies Set 
On Fraternity 
Dorms9 Funds
After four years of discussion 
thé CFP and administration have 
agreed upon fraternity financial 
and housing, requirements. Ac­
cording to the agreement:
1. Fraternity chapters are al­
lowed under existing .CIT policy 
to move non-members into their 
houses. Financial crédit for the 
occupancy of these non-members 
will be granted to the chapter in­
come. However, credit for occu­
pancy of non-members will not 
be considered in calculating, the 
occupancy rale. Beginning on Sep­
tember 16, a chapter will be re­
quired to maintain à moving oc­
cupancy rate of 90% membership 
based on the best three years out 
of four.
2. No fraternity chapter will ex 
ceed an accumulated deficit or 
projected accumulated deficit in 
house operations of more than 
$10,000. This deficit will be calcu­
lated from September 1, 1962.
Fraternity chapters, not meeting 
any one of the requirements will 
be considered of insufficient 
strength to remain active, on. the 
CIT campus; they will be required 
by appropriate administration au­
thority to disband.
At present, no houses have a 
deficit, of more than $10,000. It is 
hoped that the agreement will act 
as incentive for fraternity mem­
bers to meet requirements by at­
tracting more members.
Thistle Announces Editors; 
Johnson, Carten Head Staff
• The Thistle has announced its staff editors for the 1964- 
65 season:
Tod Johnson, this year’s editor-in-chief, will remain in 
that position for the coming year. Tod is a sophomore major­
ing in graphic arts management. He is a member of Delta 
Skull and is vice-president of$- 
Tau Delta Phi fraternity.
Ann Carten, a junior clothing 
and textiles major, will be asso­
ciate editor. Ann is a member of 
Mortar Board, Kappa Kappa 
Gamma and Student Congress.
Other staff appointments are:
Karen Berman,-layout editor; Jay 
Bradbury and Tom Clements, co­
photography editors; Elissa Parker 
and Joyce Reiser, co-copy editors;
Pete Saklas, activities editor; Ann 
Smith, faculty editor; Marty 
Oring, Greeks editor; Judy Lit- 
man, seniors editor; Dick Morri­
son, sports editor; and John Lie- 
berman, business manager.
Since all members of the staff 
have had experience working for 
the Thistle, they understand more 
fully the problems of producing a 
yearbook. They hope to coordinate 
staff activities through weekly 
meetings in order to make a co­
hesive, well organized • yearbook.
Student Missing
Anyone knowing the where­
abouts of George Merriman is 
asked, to immediately contact 
Captain Rocco of the Pittsburgh 
Police, Precinct 1.
Merriman, a sophomore physics 
major from McKeesport, was last 
seen on May 9.
Tech Face Lift 
Begins In Fall
The campus will have a slightly 
altered look next fall.
The new administration build­
ing is planned for the site of 
Forbes Hall. Thus, the old dormi­
tory might be torn down during 
the summer.
Grading work will be done on 
the grass slopes bordering on 
Forbes Avenue. A main entrance 
plaza is planned for the area be­
tween Forbes Hall anil SIcibo. 
Eventually, concrete walks and 
small park-gardens will be in­
stalled.
No works will be done on the 
proposed dramatic ails center; the 
tennis courts will therefore re­
main available.
Sabine Vaccine
Since the school year will be 
completed before the scheduled 
date for the third polio vaccine 
administration, the vaccine will 
be available at the health office 
during regular hours.
Thorpe Replaces Green 
As Head Of Mo re wood
Mrs. Thorpe
Tech Plans 
Pilot Project
Mrs. Alan M. Scaife and Her 
family, Koppers Company, Inc., 
and Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com­
pany have joined in the support of 
a recently , announced community 
program to aid under-motivated 
children from culturally disad­
vantaged areas to attend college.
The pilot program, a joint ven­
ture of Carnegie. Institute of Tech­
nology and the Pittsburgh Public 
School system, was established 
last month as a result of a $106,-
000 grant from the Carnegie Cor-, 
poration. The new funds, $12,000 
from Mrs. Scaife and her family, 
and $2000 from both Koppers and 
Pittsburgh Plate Glass, will en­
able Tech toi begin plans for the 
first summer of the program im­
mediately.
This phase calls for about 40 
tenth-grade boys and girls from 
the publié schools to begin in­
struction in June. The program 
will continue for six weeks; the 
subjects ùf the program are math­
ematics, English, and biology.
The institutions joining forces 
in this community endeavor are 
particularly interested in those 
students who have college poten­
tial, but, who, because of poor 
motivation, low level of aspira­
tion, or poor preparation, and eco­
nomic status, would not think of 
entering college.
Senior Banquet 
Tonight
The Senior Banquet, sponsored 
by the Alumni Federation will be 
held today- at 5:30 in the SIcibo 
Ballroom.
Advised by Mr. McCurdy, ex­
ecutive secretary of the Alumni 
Federation, the Senior Banquet 
Committee has planned the eve­
ning’s program. Following a free 
steak dinner, William G. Swain 
of the Class of ’52, will speak on 
“What It Means to Be a Tech 
Graduate.” Dave Crantz, Class of 
*48, a popular TV personality, will 
act as master of ceremonies.
Morewood Gardens will ha Vs a 
new resident head this coming fall 
semester.
Mrs. Louise Green, who lias 
been resident head at Morev>*.od 
since 1957, will hand over tier- 
post to JVTrs. Harriet Thorpe on 
July 1.
Mrs. Thorpe has had much ex­
perience in administrative and 
student affairs. For three years 
she served as. a resident .head at 
Ohio State University; at this tijnc 
she also completed her.: master's 
degree in higher education and 
student personnel work. She also 
has held administrative posts ia 
business.
Mrs. Thorpe's official duties as 
resident head will lie in three 
major - areas: administrative,
group and individual counselling. 
She will be responsible for the 
overall management', of the dor­
mitory. Complaints about house­
keeping, medical services, and 
food service wil be. brought di­
rectly to her attention by More- 
wood residents.
Since February of _ this year. 
Mis. Thorpe has served as resi­
dent head elect. In : this capacity 
site1 has worked with floor coun­
selors and with dormitory gov­
ernment. Both of these groups, 
she feels, “are very influential 
towards the attitudes and. general 
morale of dormitory occupants.”
As resident head, Mrs. Thorpe’s 
goal will be to make dormitory 
living as much of a higher edu­
cational experience as possible. - 
She plans to encourage informal 
student-faculty discussions ia 
Morewood lobby rooms. She will 
also attempt to strengthen dormi­
tory governing facilities.
Under her direction, the 
women’s dormitory • regulations 
booklet is being rewritten and 
curfews revised.
: The room drawing system will 
also undergo alteration. Possibly, 
listings will be made of those old 
tower rooms reserved for fresh­
men.
Counselors 
Meet at Tech
On May 21, the CIT Guidance 
Counselors’ Admissions Collo­
quium will begin. Twenty-siic 
counselors from high schools in 
twenty-three states will attend 
the three-day conference.
In order to give the counselors a 
“feeling” for Carnegie Tech, they 
will be given an opportunity to 
meet with admissions officers, stu­
dents, faculty and administrators.
On Friday, the counselors will 
attend classes and hear an address 
by Dr. Fenton on “Advanced 
Placement Curriculum Develop­
ment.”
On Saturday, they will meet 
with three students representing 
the three colleges. Later they will 
participate in a discussion, led by 
Mrs. Mildred E. Fox of Evanston 
Township High School, on “The 
High School Counselor and Col« 
lege Admissions.”
Fern Horne of Mount Lebanon 
High School and Ruth Manning* of 
Thomas Jefferson .High School 
will act as program consultants 
for the program. .
Those attending are: Mrs. Thomas ©. Bagnoli, Boston; Massachusetts; Louis R. Bcrges, New Orleans,- Louisiana: John E. Bromine, Highland Park, Illinois; Roy. E. Black. Raritan/New Jersey; Vir- ' ’ i C. Hiserman, - Charleston, West
(continued on page 2)

---------------------------------------------------

face t — CARNEGIE TECH TAMAN — WèdMsIftï, May *#> 1*«
The brother of Alpha Tan Omega 
beld their annual Senior Dinner 
Dance on Saturday at the ATO 
bouse. The seniors were presented 
with gifts from the sophomores. 
These gifts ranged from a gavel to 
Joe Hartman, the former Worthy 
Master, to a drivers manufil ,for 
Joe Sheldrick, the former buggy 
driver. Following the dinner the 
ATO?s held their sweetheart cere­
mony at which Janet Cain was 
pinned as the sw„eetheart for this 
coming school year.
Rho Chapter of Phi Kappa Theta
was host to the Northeast Re­
gional Convention of Phi Kappa 
Theta National Fraternity. The 
convention covered the states of 
New Jersey, New York. Ohio, 
Pennsylvania, and, the District of 
Columbia. The one day discussion 
included pledging, rush, and house 
finances-
Tau Delta Phi concluded its so­
cial season last week-end ai Le 
Mont, Pittsburgh’s most cele­
brated restaurant, above the 
Golden Triangle.
Dining on lobster tails and 
prime ribs of beef, the eighty peo­
ple in attendance feasted like 
“kings of the royal court.'’ After 
dinner, Tau Deli honored its sen­
iors with individual gifts and be­
stowed upon Jon Borofsky and- 
Pbil Cohen, a scholarship award 
and an athletic award, respec­
tively.
Marty Skowron. past consul,
SAME Elects \
New Officers i
!Carnegie Tech's student post of 
the Society of American Military 
Engineers (SAME) elected its ofli-. 
cers for the 3964-65 school year; 
last Wednesday evening. |
Allan Bishop, newly elected I 
president, is a senior majoring in 
Mechanical Engineering. He is. 
presently commander of the; 
ROTC Band, and will be commis-j 
sioned a second lieutenant on; 
graduating. Next year he will be. 
doing graduate work here at Car-; 
negie under a NASA fellowship. '
Harvey Shapiro, vice president.! 
and Harry Midgley, secretary- ‘ 
treasurer, are both freshmen ma-! 
joring in electrical engineering. }
was presented with an engraved: 
gavel in. recognition by the 
brothers for his superb leadership 
within the past three years.
Neal Huguley, for his masterful 
direction of the first-place win­
ners in this year's Greek Sing 
competition, was given special 
thanks before the presentation -of 
the "Sweetheart Awards,”
Joan Berliner, junior humani­
ties major, was pinned as Tau 
Delta Phi’s 1965 Sweetheart. 
Housemother, Mrs. Helen Cum­
mins, our closest sweetheart, was 
given a beautiful broche by the 
j brothers. Both received a bouquet 
1 of flowers.
After the presentation of 
! awards, dancing continued until 
early morning.
The following evening, the Tau 
Deits had a ‘"Clean Out the Bar" 
party and everyone romped. That 
goes without saying.
Special attractions at the party 
included barbecued hot dogs, and 
live band music from across the 
'street. Both added a great deal to 
the party, and both helped to 
make Tau Delta Phi’s final party 
a very successful close to a very 
successful social and award
Women Get 
Sports Awards
The Annual Awards Presenta­
tion of the C.I.T, Women’s Ath­
letic Association was held on May
19, along with the election of offi­
cers for the 1965-65 season.
Outgoing president, Monica 
I Gosse, presented trophies to the 
I following winners in season 
! sports: Pam Meyers, badminton,
| Jeannie Osman, bowling; Chi 
: Omega swimming team; Nancy 
j Mayberry, and Doris Briggs, indi- 
| vidual swimmlhg and Monica 
| Gosse, tennis.
I Special awards of silver charms 
j were given this year to those who 
j were felt to have contributed out-
¦ standingly to the W.AA. club or 
; intramural. program during their 
! years of participation. Silver 
! charms were presented to: Pat 
| Mills, Barb Brown, Barb Johnson, 
Lee Weller and Monica Gosse.
Bulletin Board
Teare To Act 
As Moderator
B. Richard Teare, Jr., dean of 
: the College of Engineering and 
I Science at Carnegie Tech. will act
• Pi Chapter of Tbeta XI Frater­
nity has elected Russell Steinbach 
president for the Fall Semester, 
1964. Other officers are: Vice Pres­
ident, William Merrits; Controller, 
Michael Bender: House Manager. 
Edward Wagstaff; Steward, Leo 
LaMay: Corresponding Secretary. 
Gordon Bare: Pledgemaster, Rob­
ert James; Treasurer, Lynn "Trow­
bridge.
Commencement
Faculty and staff who will at­
tend Commencement, June 8, have 
been requested to park in theii 
regularly designed areas, except 
in the case oi the Skibo reserved 
lot. That lot will be reserved for 
candidates and guests. Those who 
regularly park there have-been 
iircpri to use the lot adjoining the 
Edwards property.
WRCT ’
WHCT has 10 to 15 1964 Greek 
Sing records. They may be pur­
chased in the afternoon at WRCT, 
room 48, Skibo, for $3.50 apiece.
STEINBERG TO SPEAK
Dean Steinberg will speak on 
May 20, at 8:00 p.m. in the High-; 
lander Room, Skibo, to all sorority 
women, alumnae, and others in­
terested in the subject “Margaret 
Morrison in the Future and the 
Cultural Atmosphere on Carnegie 
Tech’s Campus at the Present 
Time.”
McCabe Given 
Honorary
Degree
Counselors 
Meet at Tech
('cowrifliiod from page I) \
Virjrinis: Wary Hencharik. Ii-haca. Nev ‘ York: Rev. Edward J. Krov&k. Spring- . field. MassBchu.<CTt<: Dr. Edith Lawton. ; Darien. Connecticut: Catherine Cock- :bum. Belhesda. Maryland: ¡«Frances Cooper. Melbourne. Tlor- j Ida: Ted Cooper. Denver Colorado: !Charles 3_ Cummin? Jr.. Spamanbxirp. * South Carolina; Mrs. Freda Ehrenreieh. i Philadelphia. Pennsylvania: Miidrcd E. |Fo»*. Evanston, niinoi.«: Janies A. Ger.- I raria. Wilminfnon. Delaware: Burl E.Gilliland. Oak Ridge. Tennessee: Eunice .
Margare; Tay:
Dr. Charles L. McCabe. Dean of 
Graduate Studies at Carnegie 
Tech, is one of six prominent per­
sons to receive honorary degrees 
at Dickinson College's commence­
ment exercises on June 7.
Dr. McCabe, a 1943 graduate of 
Dickinson, is also Tech's "vice- 
president for research. A metal­
lurgist, he began his teaching ca­
reer at Harvard in 1943 as an in­
structor in chemistry and has been 
at Carnegie Tech since 1951. Dr. 
McCabe a native of Port Deposit, 
Md„ is a member of Phi Bet£ 
Kappa and Sigma Xi and hold? 
the Pittsburgh Award of ihe 
American Society for Metals.
i as moderator on a panel that will 
¦discuss the role of the cortiputer 
i in industry at the annual Carnegie
¦ Conference on Saturday, June 6.
: The conference topic is: *‘The j
i Computer, Creativity and Modern 
; Society." On the panel, headed by 
| Dean Teare. will be: Kalman J.
I Cohen, associate professor of eco- 
; nomics and industrial administra- j 
i tion at Tech: William H. Pierce, > 
assistant professor in electrical! 
J engineering at Tech: George L.' 
Baldwin, head of machine aids de- j 
| velopment, Bell Telephone Labo- \ 
: ratories: Ivan Sutherland, consult- | 
: ant, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, and ’ 
. Robert P. Crago, manager of sys- 
: tems development, Washington 
: Systems Center;
Tech Clan
The Carnegie Tech Philadelphia 
Clan will hold a dinner honoring 
Dr. and Mrs. Warner on Friday, 
May 22.
A reception will be held at 6:30 
p.m. with dinner at 7:00 p.m. in 
the Haverford Hotel, Montgomery 
Àvenue at Grays Lane, Haverford, 
Pa.
W3NKI
The Amateur Radio Club 
(W3NKI) of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, has an­
nounced the election of its offi­
cers for 1964-65.
The new officers are: president, 
Jerome L. Cross; secretary-trea- 
surer, Patrick E; Crago; chief-op- 
erator, Leroy C. Richardson; and 
technical chairman, William 
Kramer.
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk GailarFred Albitz — Featured at the Casbah and ' many ' other Pittsburgh spots — .and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood — is giving folfc eviitar lessons at The -Peter Hughes Scnool o! Music. Call: 731-1844. .
Apartment to share for thè sunir Squirrel Hill. $45 per month. Call 7232 7-11 p.m.
Tartan To Publish 
On September 16
On September 16, 1964, the Car- 
negie Tech Tanan will publish: 
its first issue for the academic: 
year.
Included in that first issue will'! 
be complete coverage of freshman j 
' camp, besides more news, cleaner j 
layout, and better type selection, i
Through study and consultation I 
this summer, the editors hope to | 
introduce next year a strong yet 
flexible policy in accordance with 
the growing concern of the stu­
dents for expanded educational 
and extra-curricular activities at 
Carnegie Tech.
Sleep
Well,
Flsieil Epuras 
Next Week
Pat terns
Champús
JÀUrar^ M 
40«
daaztne
FURNITURE
to 40% off
9x12 RUGS 
$15 to S49
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.
Next 1* Shadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
ExecCou0683-6992.L^
--------- NOW SHOWING —
SOPHIA LOREN 
"Two Women'
— also —
"The 
Conjugal Bed'
Oakland’s 
Only Theatre
Between Classes or at Stvdy Break . . .
-SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . ..
ROUTE A. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
Campus - FavoredWALLYS
MEN
HUSH-PUPPIESWOMENLOAFERSHUSH-PUPPIESWHITE SHOES FORLOAFERSMEDICAL STUDENTSFLATSFLORSHEIMDRESS SHOESu. s.KEDS3612 Forbes Ave.(Across from Strand Theater)
Ä supersonic-thrlíler !"’
Peter Sellers • George C. Scott
Stanley Kubrick’*Dr. Strangelove
to Gap « Teny
5th
Big Week!FORVMM

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, M»j 2», — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Page 3>>' ' : ~ ------------Hear Ye! Hear Ye!
A Proclamation
A herd of fresh and unlikely Sucklings have strayed within the 
confines of our Institution> which none of the ignoramuses can ever 
appreciate. Their presence is an affliction from which the Institu- 
tion may never recover. Surely, to teach them a?iytliing is a hu­
man impossibility. To keep them within their sphere of civilized.
Your Man 
In Congress
by Elissa Parker
pfebians is an unwelcome and a 
condescending task.
Here,' as in times past, the 
Mighty and Unsquelchable Sopho­
more class comes to the rescue. 
We propose to assist the Faculty 
¿•n their endeavor to transform 
this crude mass of ignorance into 
intelligent human beings. Not in 
the hope of teaching anything to 
J) these Upstarts do we propose to 
enforce the following Code of 
Conduct, but simply that their 
conduct may be such that their 
presence can be tolerated by the 
upper classmen.
.— Heads Up, Ye Freshies! —
In behalf of our good intentions 
we hereby publish the Code of 
Conduct which must be followed 
devotedly by you youngsters- if 
you would escape the INEVI- 
^ TABLE punishment of disobedi- 
ance.
Code of Conduct
1. To insure effectual distinc­
tion and relegation of freshmen,
a. dinks shall be worn during 
the Orientation Program and the 
first week of classes.
b. Name tags shall be pinned 
on the front of these dinks at all 
times.
^ 2. To insure proper respect for
* granted privileges, we deny fresh­
men men the right to walk 
through MMCC or to be seen loi­
tering about the school.
3. The freshman is required to 
learn 5 Tartan cheers and attend, 
in: best of form, all home football 
games.
.4. To insure satisfactory aware­
ness of and concern for the school 
rules, policys, and traditions the 
. freshman shall read the Student 
P Handbook, the Tartan and bulle­
tin boards, and take a Traditions 
Test on Saturday morning, Sep­
tember 19.
5. The freshman is required to 
learn the Alma Mater and one 
other school song and shall be 
subject to sing them in good voice 
upon the request of an Upper­
classman.
6. The freshman will not be per- 
«.initted to act unseemly, as is their 
Picture, in Skibo or Morewood
Gardens. Such acts will not es­
cape the eye of the Omnipresent 
Upperclassman.
7. All freshmen must have their 
overalls washed at least twice a 
month.
WHAT’S NEW
IN THE APRIL
ATLANTIC?
“Must (he Colleges Police Sex?*’: John T.'Rule, former Dean at In a provocative article, says “To deny a student the right to have a girl in his room Is to punish him for what he might do with her”.
’‘U.S.A. Revisited”: John Dos Passos .takes a new, kaleidoscopic view of bur country — its turnpikes, motels, huge publicity parties, and some of the men who have formed the sinews 
of our society.
Phoebe>Lou A«lams: "A Rough Map of Greece*': The first of a new series on traveling in Greece alone by car. 
Real caviar.
Gerard Pie I: "Abundance and• the Future of Man**: American surpluses can be converted Into dynamic bene* fits for India, for other log nations in the free and for the American eiconomy.
The pursuit of excel* 
lence is the everyday 
fob of The Atlantic’s 
editors be it in fic­
tion or fact, poetry 
or prose. In ever- 
increasing numbers, 
those In pursuit of 
academic excellence 
find in The Atlantic a
challenging, enter*talnlng and enlight­
ening companion.
Get your copy today.
Original Freshman Dink from 1905
8. When a freshman couple is 
seated in MG all four feetmust be 
on the floor. (Note: Unfortunately, 
we cannot restrict all rules to 
freshmen).
9. In chemistry laboratory the 
plebes (freshmen) shall refrain 
from pourng hot metals upon their 
bodies as the screams disturb 
studying Upperclassmen.
10. The freshmen, upon dis­
obeying one of the above rules, is 
subject to consequences relative to 
the severity of the disobedience.
As part of an extensive spirit- 
generating program for Freshman 
Orientation in the fall, the arch­
ives of Carnegie Tech were 
searched for programs of the past. 
The. search produced the . hazing 
practices of the past and posters 
of the Orientation of 1908 which 
will set the theme of the week 
and the entire first semester. Its 
presentation here is to make the 
school aware of the program in 
order that ignorance will not de­
feat the purpose of the week. Al­
though upperclassmen are not ex­
pected to he a part of the week, 
their enforcement of dink-wear­
ing and the general Code of Con­
duct is essential to the week's 
success.
From the 1908 program, with 
additions for the new orientation 
week, comes the Proclamation and 
the Code of Conduct.
6Mademoiselle9 
Names Bowie 
Guest Editor
Joyce Bowie, a junior P&D, has 
been named a 1964 Guest Editor 
by Mademoiselle magazine. She 
will be^brought to New York City 
for the month of June to edit the 
August, 1964 college issue of the 
magazine and to be photographed 
for the issue. She will receive 
round-trip transportation to New 
York and will be paid a salary for 
her month’s work.
Joyce has already gained ex­
perience in her field doing gallery 
display, illustration and layout 
work. She is active in the Ski 
Club, International Club and 
Ceilidh.
Entries submitted to Mademoi­
selle's Competition by Joyce in­
cluded a combined photographic 
and- verbal essay of Pittsburgh. 
Another entry was a layout for a 
suggested college issue of the 
magazine complete with draw­
ings, photography^ and copy. The 
literature and tastes of medieval 
England set the theme for copy, 
fashions and art work on the 
projects.
Joyce will work with one of the 
Mademoiselle editors. The twenty 
Guest Editors will interview noted 
artists, writers, and designers and 
will visit advertising agencies, 
publishing houses and the fashion 
market. Parties will be given in 
their honor throughout the month.
A bonus trip to Great Britain 
will be a special feature of the 
month’s activities.
Smith, Dobosh 
Re-elected
Die Wasserspeiersbeobachters- 
gesellschaft would like to an­
nounce that Duane H. Smith and 
Paul A. Dobosh have been re­
elected, by acclamation, to the 
posts of Oberwitzbold and Ober- 
spassmacher, respectively, for the 
school year 1964-1965.
Applications for membership 
are now being accepted. Letters 
stating your reasons for consider­
ing yourself worthy of member­
ship should be sent to Box 570, 
campus mail. Due to the expected 
deluge of mail, replies may be de­
layed.
Listen To WRCT 
900 On Your 
Campus Radio Dial
The Committees have begun to 
act: policies are swerving, revers­
ing, ideas are emerging, traditions 
are being stifled, others are re­
constructed, revitalized, and posi­
tions on the committees are still 
open to everyone.
With a budget that has been 
quadrupled for next year, the As­
sembly Committee has already 
contracted for Drew Pearson, Sen­
ator Scott, and Mme. Diem's 
father. There will be a concentra­
tion of efforts and finances this 
year, cutting down on the number
concern for the committee; it is 
examining, for example, S’nS ex­
penses, the tuition raise and pro­
posing that any tuition raise apply 
to entering freshmen only.
The Freshman Orientation Com­
mittee is planning an extended 
and intensified program, intended 
to perpetuate the freshman camp 
spirit and to instill within the - 
freshmen greater concern for the 
school traditions. It is striving for 
upperclass cooperation in enforc­
ing freshman policies during • 
Orientation Week.
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
a MUSTARD • MAYONNAISE• RELISH • SAUERKRAUT• ONION • CHILE• PICKLE • KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORNS
(MINIMUM ORDER — SI.GO)
621-7388 682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER — fl.CO)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 621-7388 — 682-6466
of guest speakers, and devoting 
more programming to the relig­
ious affairs department, and 
drama department.
. The General Campus Committee 
has been doing very constructive 
and successful work with the ad­
ministration in efforts to modify 
existing structures. Definite prog­
ress has been made towards ac­
cepting a change in the calendar. 
As the proposal stands, the first 
semester would last from the first 
of September to just before 
Christmas, second semester to 
begin the second week of January, 
continuing to the first week in 
May. The committee has made ad­
ditional progress in its efforts to 
procure extended library hours 
during the week, or at least to 
employ rooms in Skibo as studÿ- 
halls after the library closes. They 
may also obtain permission for 
undergrads to remove reserve 
books from the sometimes very 
noisy and distracting reserve 
room. It intends also to publicize 
the Suggestion Box in the library 
and make greater use of the Tar­
tan a communicative media. Stu­
dent expenses is another area of
The Homecoming Committee, as 
its title suggests, will replace Fall 
Festival with à Homecoming 
Weekend that will be more im­
portant, with a stronger and bet­
ter financed program and empha­
sis on alumni.
Other committees have not as 
yet clearly outlined their pro­
grams. The Rules Committee will 
be enforcing a stricter policy to­
wards attendance at Student Con­
gress Meeting; the Finance Com­
mittee will be reviewing the bud­
get with the administration at the 
very beginning oi next year, elim­
inating- many existing problems; 
the Activities Committee will be 
improving its publicity and its ap­
plications for activities’ keys; and 
the Public Relations Committee 
will be concerned with publicity 
for the activities.
Only half of the applications al­
ready received for committee po­
sitions have been from Congress 
members, indicating a greater in­
terest and participation from the 
general student body. The chair­
men are still encouraging and ex­
pecting applications for these 
positions.
m:-
Refreshment anyone? 
Game goes better refreshed. 
Coca-Cola! With its lively lift, big bold taste, 
never too sweet... refreshes-best.
things g©better,!
^withCoke
Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company byi

---------------------------------------------------

I’M* < — CARNEGIE TECH TA*TAN — WcdMsdu, M»y », MM
Editorials
A Cïàrification
Neglecting to separate into distinct areas of news con­
tent, The Tartan advanced a policy last week which was 
readily assumed to refer to every type of -information con­
tained on our pages, including the letters-to-the-editor 
column. ,. ¦ ¦ ¦
The prime attack was against our proposed curtailment 
of “freedom of speech” and relevant opinions. Irrelevant 
content was meant to refer to comments which lack useful 
information to our local reading public.
This editorial board has a limited control over its staff. 
It has no control over its audience. Admittedly, its only con­
trol is over the presentation of information.
As a thinking body, however, the newspaper staff must 
exercise certain preferences within the bounds of its purpose
— to present factual information.
Tartan’s first preference, one of news value (not agree­
ment or disagreement), is to be fair to every reader, and 
this means to grant, as space allows, equal opportunity to 
opposing factions for the expression of their viewpoints.
To do this, we had to adopt a measurable standard by 
which a presentation of these opinions could be made. Tech­
nicalities in the wording provoked some unexpected (yet en­
lightening) response, and caused us to re-evaluate our posi­
tion.
Although on many occasions we are in agreement with 
administrative decisions, this newspaper is written, edited, 
and published by students of Carnegie Tech. There is no 
administrative control.
Our Tartan policy last week was intended only to clarify 
the stand on what our news and editorial presentation was 
to be based.
It meant-not to hint at any limitation or stifling of stu­
dent expression.
Re-affirmed Recommendations
. Each day, there appears this note in The Pittsburgh 
Press: “This column is for expression of readers’ opinions 
on current issues. The Press reserves the right to condense 
or reject any letter.”
As we stated in the May 13 issue of this paper, “It shall 
be our choice to print only those letters which conform to 
(specific) recommendations. All letters of irrelevant content 
will be rejected, and those which seem repetitious may be 
quoted in part. No letter will be edited or re-worded.”
Although ours is more specific than that of The Press, 
it is quite liberal when compared to the regulations set up 
by The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which read:
"Letters of less than 250 words will be given preference, 
and all letters are subject to condensation and editing. Letters 
containing obvious misstatements or lacking in good taste 
and fair play will be rejected.”
With a word-limit of 300, The Pitt News endorses the 
Gazette policy in its entirety. We do also, but we believe 
that a paper has no right to re-word, or delete partial 
thoughts from, an author’s main idea.
And in the future, no letter received in our office will be
singled out for public answering unless it deals specifically
with journalistic or Tartan policy.
|««-si®The < .F Carnegie Tech. Tartan r
Editor-In-Chief ............................Nancy R. Cameron
Executive Editor ..........................................Dick Elder
.. Managing Editor ..........................................Bill Hartlep
Business Manager ...................;..........Eric Feldmann
News Editor ........................................................ .Evan Melhado
Assistant News Editor ....................Sue Attinson
Features Editor .................................Martha Hodgson
Spoils Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor .........................Bev Philofsky
Copy Editor ...................Claire Dzatko
Secretarial Editor ......Marylu Recco
Circulation Editor......................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 Sfcond Class Postage Piiid at Pitlsbus'Sh. Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, In«.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-8897 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9079; Managing Editor, 341-3443. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
attd examination periods by the students oi Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Advisory Board: Dale Chodorow. Martha Siegel, Tod Johnson. Jim Pawley.News .SUIT: Bob'Fritz. Bob Cri.«eom. Elisa Parker. Gretchen Smiih.Re-Write Staff: Mark .Ferdman, Morris Goldstein, Vicki Adler.Feature* Staff: Leslie Buckman, Becky Emerson, Mimm Gillespie, Sharon 
Shuttleworth.
Sport«* Staff:-Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, A1 Green, Bill Hartlep, Chris 
Macosko.
Business Staff: Dick Sexlro, Ginny Salko
Circulation Staff: George Kail, J. E. Miller, Tom Chamberlin
Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Beverly Philoiiky, Ted Pierce, Barbara Thornton, 
Marylu Recco, Dave Klein.c«py Staff: Helen Beatly, Barbara Brown, Mike Greenwalt, Verna Beam, Ginny 
Salko, Ginny Uliss, Lorraine. Vinograd, Rick Shriner. E<1 Cheely.Secretarial Staff: Hazel Bakarlan, Belh Carten, Janis Cummings, Pat Hartman, 
Carol Karnell. Karen Kutner, Leslie .McKinley, Mary Sloll, Lorraine Vino- 
trad, Carol Young.
t^eaderi lAJrite
Water Fight 
Groivs To Riot
Editor, The Tartan:
This letter is actually to the 
administration and is written for 
the purpose of clarifying a seem­
ing misconception which cer­
tain members of the administra­
tion apparently hold. It concerns 
the “riot” iwhich was to be held 
Friday afternoon, May 8, at 4:00 
p.m. Of course, the wild flights 
of rumor AVftich swept the cam­
pus are difficult to distinguish, 
from what was actually, planned, 
but I will try to proceed slowly 
so as not to lose anyone in the 
back of the room.
A few weeks earlier, a few 
students sitting in the snack bar 
were commenting, between long 
.apathetic silences, that spring 
was finally here and why dont 
we do something to celebrate? 
At long last the group decided 
to hold an informal water bat­
tle - in front of Morewood, on 
May 8, There all organized ef­
fort ended; “spread the word” 
was the parting remark.
By the next week the “riot” 
had reached unbelievable pro­
portions. Chatham, Pitt, and the 
One Hundred and FourtySecond 
Airborne had been “invited” 
supposedly, and, anticipating a 
crowd of 3,000 people who would 
storm Morewood Gardens and 
destroy all vestiges of Western 
Civilization on the edge of 
-Schenley Park, the school had 
mobilized a huge force of city 
and campus police, called emer­
gency sessions of all campus 
governing bodies, and threatened 
the “organizers” with expulsion 
or worse. Came 4:00; nothing 
happened. Yet 5 people have 
been recommended for suspen­
sion from school. Worse, the ad­
ministration seems unaware of . 
the first amendment, that guar­
antees right of assembly. This 
school may be known for its 
apathy, but perhaps it^s because 
any spirit that is shown is im­
mediately stifled.
Martha Hodgson 
Sylvia Floyd
MUSIC
*Piano Recital of Jacqueline Vacco and Phyllis Cohen, 
May 20, 8:30 p.m., Exhibition Hall, CFA (PCC).
fpiano Recital of Marilyn Taft, May 22, 8:30 p.m., 
Exhibition Hall, CFA (PCC).
*Cello Recital, May 24, 3 p.m., Exhibition Hall, CFA, 
Snee, Ewing and Thompson (PCC).
*Nicolai’s “The Merry Wives of Windsor,” May 23, 24, 
25, 8:30 p.m., Fine Arts Theater, CGA. Saturday and 
Monday, Sandra Fogelsanger and Kenneth Tuma; . 
Sunday, Judy Zabetakis (PCC).
LECTURES
?Schools of Psychoanalytic Thought Series, May 20, 
8:15 p.m., YM & WHA, “Hartmann, Kris, Lowenstein 
and Contemporary Ego Psychology,” Dr. Richard L, 
Rubensteiri.
MEETINGS
‘Student United Nations, May 23, 9 a.m. 
Auditorium.
12 noon, GSIA
MOVIES
Film Arts “The World of Apu,” May 22, 4:30, 7:00 
9:30 p.m.,- Porter Hall 100.
*Free and open to public
decide for what they need this 
unusual freedom. That is the 
freedom to choose what I read. 
If they feel they need it, then 
why not have the freedom to 
determine my clothes, courses, 
job, income, and' life span?
Nilo Niccolai
Reader Protests 
Policy Editorial
Editor, The Tartan:
I suppose this letter will not 
be printed, since it is only my 
opinion. It is unfortunate, but 
I have always thought that my 
opinion and everyone else’s opin­
ion is public opinion. Apparently 
I must revise my thinking, since 
it is now clear that the Tartan’s 
editorial staff will determine 
public opinion. The editors claim 
to believe in freedom of the 
press as practiced by many other 
judicio"« publications. But I 
have yet to see a publication 
which is not impregnated with 
conjectures and opinions though 
at times these are cleverly dis­
guised as facts and knowledge. 
However, since the Tarlan will 
no longer print irrelevant (to 
whom?), matter, I assume that 
everything I read from now on 
will be relevant (to what?).
I have long been an unadmirer 
of Mr. Axelrad’s opinions. But 
I have long admired him for the 
courage to publish his views 
despite the ridicule of many. 
Now Mr. Axelrad and many 
others find themselves in the 
same position as people behind 
the iron curtain: desiring to ex­
press their opinions but unable 
to do so. The editors are plan­
ning a practice which, as many 
other practices in our society, 
will have the same long term 
effect on our freedoms as cen­
turies of soft breezes and gen­
tle rains have on mountains of 
solid granite.
I challenge the edilors to prac­
tice what they preach, namely, 
to re-evaluate their stand and
Rights of Minority 
Views Stressed
Editor. The Tartan:
I should like to comment on 
an apparent confusion which ap­
peared in some of the letters 
about Tom Rodd and flowered 
luxuriantly in last week’s edi­
torials. The letter - writers of 
May 6 advised Rodd that it was 
his duty to obey every law, re- 
gardless of his belief in its mor­
ality, and that a totalitarian con­
quest of this country would put 
an end to his right to object. 
This is balderdash. The United 
States Constitution claims to 
recognize rights that man al­
ready has, not to create them 
for him. Mr. Rodd’s opportunity 
to assert his rights would cer­
tainly be curtailed by a more 
dictatorial state than ours, but 
if they are inherent rights, no 
government has the ability to 
cancel them.
The same is true of duties, 
including the duty (recognized 
as such by many people, at 
least) to refrain from the tak­
ing of human life for any pur­
pose whatsoever, not excluding 
self-preservation. It'is simply a 
question of what such a person 
chooses to place first — loyalty 
to what is right, as his con­
science sees it, or loyalty to the 
state. Like many wViters of 
letters-to-the-editor, the Tartan’s 
correspondents seem to disbe­
lieve that any conflict between 
the two can ever be possible in 
this country Yet every American 
who professes a religious faith 
is committeed to respect'the law 
of God above the law of man. 
The two are seldom officially 
professed to be identical.
The difficulty, it seems to me, 
lies in the assumption that there 
is an easily accessible standard 
of truth and justice to which all 
political and moral questions 
may be referred for immediate 
decision, disputable only by the 
specious, the craven, and the 
wicked. This assumption seems 
also to underlie the editorials 
“Tartan Policy” and “Wrong on 
Rights.” We are told that opin­
ions, to be worthy of publication 
in the Tarlan, must be based on 
“truth, not false assumption^11
and that those who respect or­
der must- set the dissenter 
straight as to “his true rights 
and responsibilities.”
But what happens in a con­
flict which finds (as does the 
present controversy over non- 
viólènce) so many rrieii of in­
telligence and good will taking 
diametrically opposed positions? 
To those who feél as the Tartan 
staff evidently does, opposition 
to the majority view is possible 
only by those who are morally 
unworthy. I might point out that 
thè only letter taking this posi­
tion on the Rodd case was a 
piece of barbarism which might 
have served as a testimonial to 
either Dr. Strangelove or Lord 
of tiic Flies. Similarly, Mi*. Axel­
rad is charged not with monot­
ony or repetitiousness, his obvi­
ous journalistic failings, but 
with "contrived facts and false 
accusations.’ ’
Ladies and gentlemen, this Is 
not decent behavior in a plural­
istic society. If every opinion 
presented to the Tartan is to be 
accepted or rejected on the 
grounds of its agreement with 
what the editors regard as truth, 
this is not a newspaper but a 
propaganda organ for its edi­
torial establishment. And if the 
voice of the United States gov­
ernment is by definition the 
voice of God, our country is 
morally indistinguishable from 
those whose ideologies it now 
quite rightly regards as evil.
Instructor in English
Charles Bowen
Reader Criticizes 
Editorial Stand
Editor, The Tartan: ..................
Last week’s editorial seemed 
to express the administration^ 
attitude toward student demons­
trations, and this is rather typi­
cal of the Tarian as well as 
other “student.” organizations. In 
better schools such as Harvard, 
Yale and Princeton the school 
paper is rather independent of 
the administration. It also 
seemed presumptous for a pa­
per to answer a letter that did 
not relate to the paper itself.
The editorial seemed to make 
a rather unfair analogy between 
the mobs at the U. of Miss, and 
possible “mob” action at Tech. 
But maybe the administration 
really believes that we would 
behave that way, and so keeps 
a rather formidable (and prob­
ably quite costly) armed police 
force in constant readiness. Since 
they carry guns I asume they 
(continued on page 5)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May *«, 1»64 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — face S'"
'^Reader Criticizes 
Editorial Stand
(continued from page 4) 
are allowed to use them, and I 
do hope that that isn’t really 
necessary.
I believe that the list Of “ap­
proved” methods of protest are 
t approved because they are..in- 
y effectual. On several occasions I 
have spoken to deans and they 
nod, mutter and ignore my ques­
tions. I’ve never had one ques­
tion seriously answered.
I was shocked to read that 
"Free thought and action are-en­
couraged under proper authori­
ties with permission.” (Does that 
mean, a “permission slip from 
home?”) “Fi'eedojn is not dis- 
v regard for established -orders,” 
like Nazism, or the British Board 
of Trade in 1776.
When one goes to’ an Ameri­
can university one hopes ’that 
its policies do not violate U.S. 
law. Our “Student” Court by 
its oyvn admission acts as the 
prosecutori - defense and judge 
at the same time. Under it, the 
burden of proof is upon the ac­
cused, and court stenographers 
are viewed unfavorably. If one 
is prejudiced by thè bill of rights 
these violations as well, as the 
denial of freedom of assembly 
seem peculiar.
Howard R. Cohen
Studnet Weighs 
Tartan Policy
-¡i Editor, The Tartan: 
v* When I first read your edi­
torials on Tartan policy and let­
ters, I reacted strongly against 
them, positive that unwarranted 
censorship was going to be the 
policy in the future. After many 
more careful readings, I have 
decided that it was only the con­
notations the articles carry in 
my mind and such statements 
y-hf 35 "* * * those (letters) which seem repilitious may be quoted 
in part. No letter will be edited 
. . which had upset me. Na­
turally, being practical, every­
thing submitted to the Tartan 
is not worthy of being printed, I 
and it is your function to make 
value judgments concerning what 
is worthy. I am worried, though, 
that your judgments will be con­
siderably out of phase with my 
°Wn*I am sure you considered the 
matter carefully.— with others 
— before ostpping Axelrad’s col­
umn. I have to say I disagree 
with your decision. While I was 
far from agreement with most 
of his articles, I noticed they did 
accomplish, to a large extent, 
his purpose — to stimulate (or 
provoke) the rather apathetic 
Tech students into consideration 
of numerous important issues. At 
' * his worst, he provided humorous 
entertainment at the lunch table.
But this is over and . done. 
Something still in the future is 
the matter of letters to the edi­
tor. If a letter is lo be printed 
at all, it should be printed in its 
entirely. I can see no valid jus­
tification for any omissions — 
it is too easy to affect the con­
tent.
H. Paul Davidson 
Mech. E. 1966
Open Debate Between Students And VP
Seniors Try To Clear Strathmeyer Claims
School’s Hypocrisy Information Tentative
New Policy 
Stuns Student
Editor, The Tartnn:
Upon reading your editorial 
comments in the May 13 Tartan 
I was unable to comprehend 
^ how our. c o l 1 e g e. * newspaper 
could adopt such a policy. Pre­
vious to the publication* of this 
“Pseudo Tartan” I was under 
the impression that this campus 
was extraordinary in the fact 
that a person could pursue his 
own opinions without social or 
formal censorship. Even I have 
dissented numerous times to my 
brother’s (Jeffrey Axclrad) opin- 
(continued on page 6)
We, as graduating seniors, write to set right flagrant 
campus talk of administration hypocrisy. This talk is merely 
misinformed and misdirected and we feel that we can suc­
cessfully confute all the arguments.
First, there is Skibo. Some that have read the Carnegie 
catalog say that that publication misrepresents our Student 
Union. We say it is “the hub of extracurricular college 
life.” Its recreational facilities, the two ping-pong tables (we 
guess), are an integral part of student life — although 
damage to one of them could cut facilities by 50%. True 
enough, there are no facilities for storing the Scotch ’n Soda 
equipment and, true enough, TGIF often had trouble find­
ing a room in which to TG, but it would, be hard to please 
everybody at once. For that matter campus groups could, 
like the non-campus organizations which often occupy the 
rooms, sign up a year in advance for space, then everyone 
would be happy. We suppose that you really can’t call Skibo 
a student union, but you can call it a college union.
People have, often called our maintenance staff incompe­
tent, heedless of student needs, and the like. This is easily 
confuted by a quote from Mr. Strathmeyer himself in his 
1964-65 Budget Réport to the trustees, p. 11:
“A recent follow-up to our 1963 comparison of CIT non- 
professional (clerical, technical, custodial, and mainten­
ance) salaries and wages with comparable positions in 
the Pittsburgh labor market area indicates that our dis­
tinctively lower position has not changed appreciably.” 
With superb wit and flashing satire he follows this revel­
ation with the adjuration that:
“We must constantly remind ourselves thát the retention 
and addition of good support personnel to complement 
the academic program and its progress is necessary so 
that the best interests of our faculty and students might 
be served.”
Even though it may not show superficially, the adminis­
tration does care that the student needs be met by competent 
and dedicated men.
Voices have been heard saying that there are hostile 
elements in the men’s dorms, like rats and roaches. The 
voices say that appeal to the administration does not move 
either the administration or said rats and roaches. Firstly, 
these rats under Boss Hall porch or these roaches may not 
be the same rats and/or roaches which were seen each 
time — there may be more than one so that even if the 
first ones were killed, others may have immigrated, and 
certainly, the exterminators cannot come every day. Second­
ly, rats and roaches are hard to kill; they burrow and hide.
The biggest topic on campus has been the proposed 
tuition increase which — everyone being human — has 
caused complaints. On this issue’we know that CIT plans 
to bring in new and renowned professors and to expand 
their facilities; this will cost money. Mr. Strathmeyer has 
said recently to Student Congress that the students them­
selves pay only 53.2% of the cost of their education — a 
paltry amount. This humble understatement is backed up 
by the 1963-64 budget reports, Exhibits A and B:
Total expenses (63-64): .$7,509,779.
Total income from tuition and fees (same year) $5,250,-
500.
Thus the students pay 697« of the costs, conforming 
rather favorably with Mr. Strathmeyer’s figuring. We also 
understand that tuition income barely covers instruction 
costs. This is confirmed by the budget reports, Exhibits A 
and B:
Total income from students tuition and fees $5,250,500.
Total instructional expenses $4,065,209.
Obviously income from students covers instruction ex­
penses and then some.
In closing, we feel that the administration has been 
maligned about their concern for student life in general. Is 
it the job of the school to provide non-scholastic diversion 
for students and to enliven the existence of the Independent? 
Is it the job of the school to provide other than the necessi­
ties of existence for those students that live on campus. 
Should the dorms finish any other than the most Spartan 
comforts for people who have come to CIT to learn a pro­
fession? This is a college, not a pleasure garden.
Specific paragraphs of the above report have been de­
leted because the information contained in them was of 
personal and, therefore, confidential nature.
The Tartan has also felt that it is in the best interests 
at this time to withhold the names of those students who 
have compiled this report. —Ed.
Miss Nancy Cameron 
Editor, TARTAN
The data presented by me at the Student Congress meet­
ing on April ¿9, 1964 were drawn from the last audited finan­
cial statements of Carnegie Institute of Technology, state­
ments for thé 1962-63 academic year. The data presented by 
the writer of the letters is someone’s estimate only for the 
1963-64 academic year as yet not completed. Even if this 
estimate were correct, its use to imply a general condition 
produces significant distortions and cannot be considered to 
be representative since the author has chosen a year in which 
a tuition increase was first effective. Historical data avail­
able in the Annual Report of the Vice President for Business 
Affairs confirms from audited data the statements made from 
time to time by the Administration.
R. D. Strathmeyer 
Vice President for Business Affairs
Ixiay 18, 1964.
stampede'son
BRASS RINGER
Go see Kolonel Keds fly 
with the BeH rocket belt 
at the N. Y. World's Feir 
Wonderworki Show!
Hop to H. meet the new “Brass Ringer," It really fiats around. IVs 
clean and lean. With man-six« brass eyelets end wraparound toe 
guard. Leng on looks, strong on comfort, great on wear. Made of 
washable cotton duck In a new smoky white chlno, also In white. 
Medium width, sizes 5 to 12, 13, 14.
Stampede on down lo your nearest store 
and let ’em rustle y’ up a pair. As£ for 
“Brass Ringer" Keds® today) It’s a (
United States Rubber
RocHtfoller C«nt«r. NawYork 20, N«wYoih

---------------------------------------------------

Page « ^ CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, May £t, UN
Student Union Might 
Solve Discontentment
by Martha Hodgson
Carnegie Tech is a school without a student union. It 
has millions of dollars of endowment and no all-càmpus 
auditorium; no ballroom large enough for an all-school 
dance; no general gameroom with any recreational facilities, 
such a bowling, billiards, or ping-pong. What Carnegie Tech 
does have is a “Campus Activities Center,” which is for the 
mutual benefit of faculty, alumni, and students.
In 1960, Skibo was built. It is not, and was never in­
tended to be, a student union. A glance at any of the daily 
bulletin boards shows its purpose. There are a few student 
meetings, Mass, and several organizations which are classi­
fied as “On-Campus” because they have been sponsored by a 
faculty member. Any organization, such as the American 
Chemical Society, Ford Foundation, Ladies Sewing Circle, 
or the League of Women Voters can reserve a room in Skibo 
if they have a faculty or administrative sponsor, or a “charit­
able or educational” purpose. Fees for an entire day are $20 
for the Ballroom, $10 for Wherrett or Highlander rooms, 
and $5 for one of the seven meeting rooms downstairs, plus 
$4.50 per hundred chairs to be set up. This price is ridicu­
lously low; a hotel ballroom the size of Skibo’s would cost 
over $1,000 dollars.
. Yet student opinion has indicated that the situation 
which causes concern is the scarcity of rooms and conflicts 
between on and off-campus scheduling. It has long been the 
policy of Dean Stri.ck’s office to give the room to campus 
organizations over off-campus ones; but this policy hinges on 
the definition of a “Campus” organization. All of those men­
tioned above are classified as “Campus” because they are 
sponsored by a faculty member or are faculty organizations. 
Thé sewing circle, for instance, is composed of wives of Tech 
alumni and faculty, and therefore is ranked equally with 
any student organization.
Further, students have found themselves forced to use 
Skibo food service when holding a tea or party in. Skibo. 
When buying food in quantity, one expects a slight discount: 
however, Skibo coffee costs $1.96 per gallon or 12.2 cents 
per cup; it would be cheaper to hold the party in the snack 
bar, where each person could purchase a 10c cup of coffee, 
except that few persons would want to hold any parties in 
the snack bar, the only room in Skibo designated for student 
use exclusively. The place does not seem to have been de- 
signd with a student population in mind. There are no 
booths; every table is family-sized; there is no place to 
dance; and it lacks all feeling of intimacy, leaving few stu­
dents who would prefer it to the Greeks for a coffee-after-a- 
date (assuming it were still open after a date).
The problems Scotch and Soda faces every spring are a 
household word on the campus, primarily because Scotch 
and Soda, in addition to being one of the most active groups 
on campus, is also one of the loudest. Yet the numerous small 
groups, who are less voiciferous, suffer just as much. Isn’t 
it time Carnegie Tech devoted some of its cash for a Student 
Union? It might go a long way in curbing discontent on 
the campus.
New Policy 
Stuns Student
(continued from page 5)
ions, but found pleasure in the 
fact that he or anyone else could 
express himself freely.
The students on this campus 
are no longer children. They do 
not need anyone to form their 
opinions for them. You propose 
to print the truth1, do so by all 
means. I only wish I could be as 
faultless as you seem to be in 
separating fact from fiction.
You and your staff have sucr 
ceeded 'in transforming the Tar­
tan into an information sheet 
that any staff of junior high 
school could assemble. Good 
luck. For myself I would rather 
read the bulletin boards.
Michael K. Axelrad
Reader Cites Mill 
To Defend Axelrad
Editor, The Tartan:
It is nice to know that we 
have an editor - and staff that 
can determine “common sense.” 
In determining this they seem 
to feel that “common sense” only 
reflects the views of the major­
ity. This is not true. If every­
one shared the views of the ma­
jority there would be little or 
no social or political progress. 
Fortunately though, minorities’ 
views do contain “common 
sense." The minorities’ opinions, 
might eventually become the 
opinions held by the majo'rity. 
This is how progress has' been 
made.
Jeffrey Axelrad wrote from a 
minority viewpoint. Whether we 
agree or disagreed with his logic, 
his views stimulated the thought 
of Carnegie Tech students. It 
was my understanding that this 
was his purpose. Last week he 
was the subject of two articles 
in the Tartan. There has not 
been a Wednesday when I 
walked around this campus that 
I did not hear conversation re­
garding his article. Because some 
people found them disagreeable, 
they should not be eliminated.
Thomas Mills once said:
1. If an ' opinion is compelled to silence it is assuming that our own is infaUible.2. Even if in error, an opinion will contain some truth. Sincc any
f t! ! if I’llJ
On SJe
Oki6 Weei
Poets Write 
To Clarify Stand
Editor, TJic Tartan:
We resent being labeled 
“name-callers” in letters in last 
week’s Tartan. Our only “apol­
ogy to thfe* academic commun­
ity” « fw oar poor poetical 
mechanics. Our verse, however, 
did not seem to convey to some 
people the feelings which pro­
voked it. We did not think that 
anyone would take our doggerel 
word for word, but apparently 
some people did not recognize 
our use of exaggeration as illus­
tration of our belief that Tom 
Rodd’s ideas are completely im­
practical and fairly ridiculous.
We point out that absurdity 
and exaggeration have been and 
are being used by political car­
toonists and by various respected 
satirical writers.
We are not, as some people 
think, ignorant of Rodd’s views 
both moral and-political, and in 
fact we discussed .them at length 
with him during his visit to the 
campus. We respect Mr. Rodd 
for being a well-informed and 
perserverent young man, but we, 
like many others, cannot agree, 
with him,peter Jansson 
William Krall
ATTENTION 
GRADUATING SENIORS
?YOUR DIPLOMA IS ENOUGH SECURITY FOR US*
Your diploma indicates to us what you have the ability to work, th ecapacity to leam, and the iniative necessary to succecd. Now that you are only a few short weeks from graduation, wc would like to take this opportunity to wish you “God SPeed" orr your journey to success and happiness. May we suggest that you begin your journey in a brand new 64 Rambler.
WITH NO DOWN PAYMENT
WE HAVE ARRANGED FINANCING FOR THE CAR. INSURANCE. AND ALL TAXES — PLATES —
220 SEDAN $1790 
330 SEDAN $1871
44ft HARD TOP $1977 
440 CONVERTIBLE $2206
CLASSIC 660 $2039
AMBASSADOR $2515 
990 H, 2 Dr., H Top 270 hp
* ITS ECONOMICAL
* IT DEPENDABLE
* ITS MADE BETTER & SELLS FOR LESS
* ITS “RATTLE FREE”
A-P AUTO SALES INC.
4175 Perysvllle Ave., Pittsburgh 14, Pa.
WE. 1-1148 W. F. Piltenger, Jr.
Open Mon. thru Thurs. 8 a.m. to 9 p.m.At Perrysville & Franklin — jusl 1 milt from West View Park
Fri. & Sat. 9 a.m. - 6 p.m.
"in Pa. !fs A-P for the best deal on a new Rambler"
8ervlng oar friends since 193?
opinion Is rarely the’ whole truth it is only by adverse... opinion we improve it.
without rational feeling.4. Then the meaning ot will be lost or., enfeeble* conviction from reason,
Axelrad’s column stimulated 
us, and caused us to. think more 
logically by contesting some of 
the views we once held in a 
manner of prejudice. His articles, 
in questioning our views, made 
us rationally examine our opin­
ions. It is only by adverse opin­
ion, according to Mills, that we 
can strengthen our opinions. To 
think rationally is one of the 
primary points of the “Carnegie 
Plan."
The vast majority of the Tar­
tan's material concerns campus, 
activities. A more mendane col­
umn, such as Axelrad’s would 
add variety a n d enhance our 
(the students’) Tartan next 
year and in the years to come. 
Perhaps the “Tartan Policy” 
ought to be re-evaluated.
Michael Malakoff
Arts Festival 
Opens May 29
Carnegiè Institute’s annual 
Three. Rivers Arts Festival will 
open in Pittsburgh’s Gateway 
Center on May 29 and will con­
tinue through June 7.
For the fifth anniversary, the 
Festival Committee has planned 
performances of music, drama, 
and dance for every lunch hour 
and ten evenings.
Students from Carnegie Tech’s 
Chorus, Orchestra, Drama De­
partment, and Dance Workshop 
will .participate in the festival. ,
-Musical and dramatic talent, as 
well as exhibiting artists and pho­
tographers, are drawn from the 
areas within 110 miles of Pitts­
burgh. All performances and ex­
hibitions áre free to the public.
SPMTS cnü i§âi ÜMIS
87th Annual Lake Erie Invitational
NELSONLEDGES
ROAD COURSE
PRACTICE SATURDAY • . • RACING SUNDAY#The Sound end Spedatk of Sportt 
Cm at Spsti.,. *
Sanctioned by Regional SCCA
ON OHIO ROUTE 305 AT NICHOLSON ROAD 
NEAR NELSON LEDGES PARK • • • 12 MILES WEST OF WARREN, OHIO NORTH Of OHM TVRNNXE EKJT H
FREE PARKING CHILDREN under 12 FRB
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH SCHOOL IDENTITY CARD
NELSON LEDGES SEASON SPORTS CAB RACE PROGRAM
• JULY 35-30 STEEL CITIES REG.« SEPT. 12-13 MAHONING VALLEYREG.• AUG. ? FORMULA VEE • OCT. »-4 NORTH EAST OHIO B«(.NATIONAL CLOSED • OCT. 34-35 STEEL CITIES REG.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832
é^xcfuâive ut fëolertô
PARI31ENNE . PRICES FROM »IOO TO $1200 
18KT. White Gold Solitaire setting high and pretty 
giving maximum brilliance and security. $235.00 F.T.L 
Enlarged for detail.
REGISTERED JEWELER 
AMERICAN GEM SOCIETY
Charge Accounts and Deferred Payments Invited
•JOHN: Mi ROBERTS'-SON f"
WOOD ST. at FORBES AVE., DOWNTOWN
East Hills Shopping Center • 731 Washington Rd„ Mt. Lebanon

---------------------------------------------------

LWednesday, May H,1N4 — CAKNKGIE TECH TARTAN — P»*e 7
SPORTS
Change Intramurals 
A Proposal
Sports Editorial by Scott McCormick
After participating in and reporting oh Carnegie Tech’s 
intramural" program "for two years,, one short-coming has 
become increasingly apparent to irie. That shortcoming is 
the lack of inter-fraternity athletic competition.
Witii the present system of scheduling and the large 
iSúmber of independent teams, some houses gó an entire 
year without playing several other houses in major com­
petition. On the average, each, fraternity plays every other 
fraternity in football, volleyball, basketball, or softball, 
once a year.
It is nbt hard for me to use two houses as examples to 
point thsi .out. ATO has not played Beta Sig, Sigma Nu, 
PiKA, the Delts, or Theta Xi in any of the above sports all 
year. They have played SAE, the Phi Kapps, the Betas, and 
Delta Upsilon once, the Tau Delts twice, and Kappa Sig three 
times. The same situation holds for SAE, who has played 
?TX and PiKA, and has played each of the other houses 
but once. ,,
There is nothing more satisfying to an ATO or an SAE 
than coming out on top of the Sigma Nus or the Betas, and 
I am sure that the feeling is mutual. A basketball game 
between ATO and Sigma Nu would have brought out be­
tween fifty and one hundred vociforous spectators. When 
ATO pláyed the Finks and the Grad Physics, less than ten 
spectators showed for each game.
v Fraternities comprise around 5Q% of the intramural 
'program and any stimulus to more participation by frater­
nities would be a shot in the arm to the intramural program.
Í would like to make a suggestion to the Intrámural 
Board and the Council of Fraternity Presidents to remedy 
the present situation. Basically, this suggestion is for the 
Intramural Board to place fraternities in separate leagues 
and for CFP to award annual first, second, and third place 
all-sports trophies to the top three athletic fraternities. These8
 trophies would be separate,and independent of the all-sports 
trophy awarded by the Intramural Board.
T^> This would provide the impetus for a large increase of 
healthy fraternity rivalry and at the same time stimulate 
more houses to enter teams in the minor and intermediate 
sports.
-To determine the winners of th^ese three new trophies, 
points would be awarded to .the top four fraternities in 
each sport in the same manner as it done now for the.all- 
sports trophy. Fraternities would be scheduled to play in 
their own leagues, with a play-off schedule to decide the 
top four houses.
-¦» Major sports would have, enough fraternity entries to 
'-'Bll two leagues. Some minor and intermediate sports would 
have enough teams for one separate fraternity league. Sports 
like rifle, swimming, and track require no leagues at all. 
Minor difficulties may be encountered. in sports like water 
polo where there are usually about six Greek teams and 
two independent teams. This problem could be ironed out 
by scheduling a few extra matches between fraternities to 
determine the top'four places.
To determine an overall school champion, in sports 
where the leagues were separated, the fraternity chámpions 
would play the independent champions for the title. This 
should place a burden on no one, since the top two teams in 
each sport are usually one independent team and one frater­
nity team. All in all, details would not be difficult to work 
out and problems could be handled on an individual basis for 
each sport.
I can see no reason at. all why this intramural set-up 
would not be desirable or practical. It would generate much 
more enthusiasm than there is now, and the increased frater-( 
nity rivalry would be healthy for all concerned.
It is a little late to make any changes right now, but it 
^is,not too late for some serious thought and discussion be­
fore the year is over. I wholeheartedly urge fraternity men 
to talk these ideas over and come up with, a firm proposal 
to present to the Intramural Board in the fall. I further urge 
that the Intramural Board consider this proposal and make 
the necessary changes to the intramural program.
Tennis Team 
Beats Pitt 
Jn Finals
In their last meet of the season, 
Saturday, the Tech tennis team 
defeated Pitt by a score of 7-2. 
The Tartan netteVs swept the 
singles matches, 6-0, but could eke 
out only one of three in doubles 
competition. This marked the 
sixth victory for the tennis team. 
Othier schools defeated by Tech 
this year were St. V i n c e ri t, 
Waynesburg, Westminster, Wash­
ington and Jefferson, and Du- 
quesne. With only one letterman 
graduating, John Jackson, the 
Tartans are looking forward to an 
even better season* next year.
The set scores, in Saturday’s 
meet were:
Singles: Ted Engelmann (CIT) 
defeated Sam Donatelli, 9-7, 6-0r 
Doug Love (CIT) defeated Dick 
Solyn, 6-3, 6-4; Bill Jones (CIT) 
defeated Larry O’Loughlin, 6-4, 
6-4; Jack Hershey (CIT) defeated 
Joe Guzzardi, 6-2, 2-6, 6-2; Curt 
Chandler (CIT) defeated Adrian 
Hartman, 7-5, 7-5; Dick Donder- 
gan (CIT) defeated Dave Orth, 
6-2, 6-1.
Doubles: John Jackson and
Londergan (CIT) defeated Solyn 
man and Orth (Pitt) defeated Bob 
and O’Loughlin, 6-3, 6-4; Hart- 
Harvey and Arleigh Halfer, 6-4, 
.6-4; Guzzardi and Barber (Pitt) 
defeated Fred Stone and Jim 
Kamm, 6-3, 6-0.
INI Softball Final To Be 
SAE, Grad Eagle Contest
An eight team entry, comprised 
of first and second place teams of 
the leagues, went into a single 
elimination play-off to determine 
the winning team of 1964 IM Soft­
ball. SAE and the Grad Eagles 
showed why they were the favor­
ed teams as each battled their 
way to the final game.
SAE rolled to a 16-6 victory 
over the Met Grads in their first 
game. They capitalized on 3 errors 
and walks plus 2 hits to push 
across 6 runs in the first inning 
and then got one run per inning 
until their last time at-bat when 
they collected 6 more runs on 
seven hits. Koch and Pinkerton 
each managed 3 hits for the 
winners.
In their first encounter of the 
play-offs, . -BSR “Mets” defeated 
BTP 5-?. A1 Margolis provided the 
big bat for Beta Sig with a double 
and 2 singles, scoring 3 runs. In 
higher scoring game, TDP. 
whipped past the Dorm-Trojanis 
by a 11-10 tally. Dobin led the 
victors with 3 hits.
The Grad Eagles, winners of the 
Giants League, almost had more 
than they could handle in the 
‘‘Trips to Win” team, second-place 
winner in the Braves League. 
With the score tied 3-3 at the end 
of 4 innings, the “Trips to Win” 
jumped to a two-run lead on 2 
home runs, but the Grads came 
back with 5 runs in their half to 
get a lead they didn’t lose.
In the semi-finals,. SAE met
BSR and the Graid Eagles played 
TDP. The SAE-BSR game looked 
for a while like an entirely - de* 
fensive game as pitchers Gammon 
and Blaker battled each other in a 
Pitcher’s duel. But Gammon’s 
SAE team jelled ,defensively and 
went head on a two-run triple by 
John Mulholland; Gammon con- 
tinued to master the BSR batters 
and. won 6-4.
The Grad Eagles gained the 
right, to play for the championship 
by defeating TDP 7-2. A last inn­
ing rally by the Tau Delts fell 
short of victory but put them in 
the runs column with 2 runs.
IM Man of Year Harvey Gammon
Job Offered 
By IM Board
The Intramural Board is in need 
of someone to take over- and run 
the Officials’ Club, the job pres­
ently handled by Bob Mercer. The 
position entails the obtaining, 
training, and scheduling of offi­
cials for football, volleyball, bas­
ketball, soitball, and several 
minor sports.
Here is the chance for fraterni­
ties or any other organization who 
are dissatisfied with the present 
set-up to put a man in and try to 
do something about it.
The Officials’ Club is more or­
ganized than it ever has been, but 
with Bob Mercer leaving» some­
one is needed to run the program. 
Anyone interested should talk to 
Bob at the ATO house or see Mr. 
Boyer in the Athletic Department.SAE*s Wiehe batting against BSR in playcffs
LEWIS
D Sales r Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES , ' ¦ RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
TYPING
FAST • EFFICIENT 
• REASONABLE O 
Term Papers — Theses — Dis­
sertations — Punctuations — 
Spelling — Grammar Correct-
" AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
Big weekend on campus coming up?.
:\~u y"
hong Distance is the quick, sure way to make arrangements with your date«

---------------------------------------------------

.S tange logvaGp «nTTy 
>anGp ' :t~ -IN SooH
A host of CIT intramural track records fell last Tuesday 
as BTP and the :Grad Eagles fought it out for the' annual 
track championship. There were two double winners during 
the cold, windswept meet and they were Livengood of BTP 
in the 100 and 220 and Shockey of the Grad Eagles in the 440 
and 880. Records feil in the 440*
lace s — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wedaesditr, M»r 8*, MM
where Shockey .eclipsed the old 
standard of :57.1 set by Foels • o'f 
ATO in 1962. Shockey lowered the 
record to a very respectable :53:6. 
In the 120 yard low hurdles, Buck, 
a Grad Independent, clipped two 
tenths of a second off the old rec­
ord, lowering it to :14.5. McClean 
of SN had set it at :14.7 in 1959. 
Still more records were set. as 
Probala of PKA set. a new high 
jump record of 5’9.5” passing Rob­
bing’s record of5'8” set last year. 
In thè broad jump, Ramey of the 
Civil Hammers, smashed the old 
mark of 19’9 by leaping 21*5”. 
Hartman of BTP held the pre-
vious record., Livengood shko the 
record books in his specialty, the 
dashes, by tying the 100 record at 
:10.8 and missing the 220 record 
of :24.3 by one tenth of a second. 
The grads continued to put their 
marks in the books, though, as 
Armstrong set a shot put record 
with a heave of 45’9”, and Shock­
ey plummetted the 880 record 
from 2:15.57 to 2:06.5:
Final finishers for- the meet 
were: BTP and the Grad Eagles 
tied with 38 points each, PKA. 
with 34, DU with 15 *n'd H. Buck, 
independent, with 13.
Attention Seniors!
Big Things Are Starting To Happen 
At Carnegie Tech
^jext 'L^ear, Stay ^Qtt^ortneJ. 
Subscribe To The Slew Tartan
$2.50 per year. Write name 
and next year's address to .
Carnegie Tech Tartan, Box C,
Campus Mail.
THE ALPS...madein Italy by FABIANO
Handmade Imported Bools for the Outdoor Man and Woman.,*
STYLE #91
Por Men or Women, Siena. 
Brown Malian Suede, soft 
and suppl«, will never 
crack or harden. For Rock 
Climbing or Hiking.Podded 
Tangue'and Quarter' far 
«¦treirie comfort at th® 
ankle. Vibram lug sole«
' i- Mer»> N and L—
4 to 14, Ladies N and M-»
5 to 111 (Sices 13 to 14 
$3.00 Enlra), '
Write for Free Brochure$23 95
FAB1MO SHOES CO., IffC.
Depi. CT, South StationBoston 10, Maas.
Carnegie Te©li Men
A Special Summer 
Employment- Opportunity 
For You 
*600 Guaranteed Minimum 
Income Plus Up To 
$350 Scholarship
NATIONAL CORPORATION HAS 
OUTSTANDING JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS
SEE MR. FAYAD
AT PLACEMENT OFFICE 
Thursday, May 21 and Friday May 22 
? A.M. - 5 P.M.
Sigma Kappa out in lead of Kappa Sigma in Easter party last Mareh 21. As you may call, this photo appeared upside down in the March 25 issue. As a final note to this 
we wanted to make the correction. The end.
sciiM’s sisi.
Right now, graduation seems way off in the 
wild blue yonder. But it’s not too early to start 
planning. In the future, you’ll look back on 
decisions you make today with satisfaction... 
or regret.
What can an Air Force career mean to you in 
tangible gain? The opportunity to take on ex­
ecutive responsibilities you might otherwise 
wait years to attain. And a head-start into one 
of a wide range of possible careers in the 
exciting Aerospace Age.
As an Air Force officer, for ex- ¦ j His* 
ample, you may be flying a su- Ua$a All
personic jet...helping to keep America’s 
guard up. Or you may be in an Air Force 
laboratory, working to solve an intricate sci­
entific or technological problem.
Doing jobs like these, you can hold your Jiead 
high. In addition to being essential to your , 
country, they're the beginnings of a profes;1 
Sion of dignity and purpose.
For more information, see the Professor of 
Air Science.
If there is no AFROTC unit on your cam-«vago
pus, contact your nearest Air 
Force recruiter*
