Vol. 69, No. 42C-MUFRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1970
Cavanagh Wins Presidency; 
1400 Vote, Record Number
Pat Cavanagh, Psychology, 2nd Year Grad
Winners—
Director of Activities Board 
BILL IACONO
Director of
Academic Affairs Board
% KEN FRIEND
AWS Senators
IRENE ABRAHMS 
TRICIA COLT 
BETH DAVIES 
JUDE HELLER 
JULIE JOHNSON 
JOAN KODISH 
GERRI SPILKA
Dorm Senators
BOB BROCKMAN 
TOM BOGGAN 
GERRY GLASER 
JOHN HOLOBINKO 
JAMES JORDAN
Fraternity Senators
JAMES FENNEL 
ROBERT LeMAY 
CARY SCARBOROUGH 
MICHAEL SUGARMAN
Commuter Senators
STEVE BORTH 
DENNIS MORABITO 
*MIKE GARI 
?GEORGE GASPER 
?JOHN MESSERVY
Graduate Senators
JUDITH GIBBONS 
LESLIE FOLGAR 
MURRAY SINGER
Graduate Representativ
TOM BURGESS
Commuter Representative
HOWARD RICHMAN
College Council—H&SS
JENIFER DIGBY 
DENNIS MORABITO
College Council—CIT
DAVID BALLENTINE 
JAMES TETER
College Council—MMCC
SUE RICKLEY
*These three have tied. 
The Senate must determine 
outcome for the two seats.
Senate Defeats Judicial System
by Murray Singer
Jot“ Duckworth's year-long attempt to institute a new 
student-run judicial system at C-ML met with unexpect­
ed defeat at last Tuesday's Senate meeting. The project 
had been given extremch careiul consideration and had 
been discussed in great letnth until it appeared that all the 
bugs had been eliminated. A brie! struggle initiated and 
conducted by Tom Burgess led to the ultimate defeat ol 
the motion.
When the proposal linalh came to the Senate floor. 
Burgess urged his tellow senators to table it until the elec­
tion and inauguration ol the new Senate. When this endeav­
or failed, however. Burgess began a lengthy speech which 
liad all the aspects ol a filibuster except in that it was ex­
tremely cogent and pertinent. His objections to the motion 
centered around the fact that the new judicial system 
would have made students the mere enforcers ol a set ol 
bylaws which are not then own. He objected to the lact 
that Senate has put oil the formulation of a new set ol by­
laws till a later date. Furthermore, he pointed out that 
the administration still would retain linal sav in anv mat­
ter. for President Stever was named by the motion as the 
linal appeals court. Coupled with the lact that a student 
lound innocent ol a charge was still liable to prosecution 
b\ one ol the appeals courts, students would have been 
laced with a situation in which the administration of the 
school still held the upper hand
Burgess objections were manifold. He reminded Sen­
ate that no assurance had been received from the admin­
istration that civil charges would not be laid against any 
student disciplined bv the University, as had been urged 
by the proposal. Students would also be exposed to in­
creased liability in that any student would be free to bring 
charges against any other. Burgess expressed the opinion 
that laws do not provide protection lor people.
Burgess summed up his opposition to the motion by 
declaring that the new Judicial System would not be an 
expression ol student power but rather that students 
would lall into the position ol having to act as house nig­
gers lor the administration, doing their disciplinary dir­
ty work. He challenged the quorum at the meeting and 
then left the room, accompanied by Stever Rosenberg.
The quorum was met. but. stunningly, the subsequent roie 
call vote indicated that few of the senators disagreed with 
Burgess thesis. The "yeses" did not approach the three- 
lourths of those present necessary to pass the motion.
Student Senate did indicate that it is prepared to lol- 
low up this year's work by reconsidering the motion when 
Senate recovenes alter the elections. A motion to recon­
sider the motion was passed with the two-thirds vote re­
quired. and the motion was finally tabled
The second item of note last Tuesday involved a mo­
tion to ban Armed Service recruiters from Skibo. In the 
light of the close consideration that this issue appeared 
to merit, this motion was tabled after an amendment to 
ban all recruiters from Skibo was defeated.
Other items of business involved the allocation of 
lunds to different campus organizations. Spirit received 
the $1.000 it had requested, and the Tartan was allocated 
its entire budget of $15.789 In addition, campus radio 
WRTC received $7.750 and $500 was granted for lireworks 
a spring carnival.
New Lighting
by Scott Tilden
The problem is lighting.
Tuesday evening at 7. Mr. Kerr 
ol Physical Plant demonstrated 
one possible solution to that prob­
lem—floodlights. Representatives 
Horn WRCT. The Tartan, CFP. 
AWS and MDC attended the un­
veiling.
Two lloodlights. one ol a thou­
sand watts and a smaller. 500-watt 
lamp are presently sitting on top 
ol Skibo. bathing the area in light 
that was previously absent. These 
lights are a temporary installa­
tion. being used as an example ol 
an interim lighting plan to be used 
lor the rest of this year until an 
upgrading ol the permanent lights 
is possible. A total of 15 lights, at 
an approximate cost of tour to live 
thousand dollars each, have been
recommened to illuminate the en­
tire campus. Also, upon WRTC s 
suggestion, an attempt will be 
made to turn around the flood­
lights on the football field in an at­
tempt to illuminate the danger­
ously dark rear Skibo area.
The mercury vapor lights on the 
rool ol Skibo. which were remov­
ed Wednesday night, is one of two 
interim systems being considered 
lor campus lighting. The other, 
erection of telephone poles with 
large light-banks at a number ol 
places on campus, was consider­
ed to be less desirable than this 
system.
The administration has indi­
cated that they are open to sug­
gestions and opinions from stu­
dents about the new lighting sys­
tems.
SCHOLARSHIP...............
Application blanks for the PITTSBURGH WOMEN S CLAN SCHOLARSHIP are now avail­
able in the Financial Aid Office. Any JUNIOR WOMAN in good standing is eligible to apply for 
this scholarship, which is based on good scholastic standing, personality and activities. Appli­
cants must also submit a statement of why they think they ore qualified for the award.
Completed applications and statements are due in the Financial Aid Office, 210 Warner 
Hall by Friday, April 3.
Interviews will be conducted for women students in Margaret Morrison by Mrs. Martha 
Wayman, engineering and science students by Dr. L. Campbell, and fine arts by Miss Ruth Eb- 
kin. All interviews will be held on SATURDAY, APRIL 11, IN MOREWOOD GARDENS. An appoint­
ment will be arranged by the Financial Aid Office when the application is submitted.
MDC President Elected
On Wednesday. March 4. Mens Dormitory 
Council elected oflicers. They are Sam Frenkil. 
president: Roger Dooley, vice-president: and Chuck 
Vukotich. treasurer.
Mr. Frenkil (Civil Engineering. 1972». who was 
elected president ol B-wing. Hammerschlag House, 
earlier this year, is presently head of MDC s Dor­
mitory Improvements Committee.
Mr Dooley iChemical Engineering. 1971» is cur­
rently president of Henderson Hall and MDC s Pub­
licity and Public Relations chairman.
Mr. Vukotich Chemistry, 1971». who was 
one of the early backers of Co-Ed housing at C-MU. 
will be starting his second term as treasurer. Step­
hanie Roth is the new secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

LETTERS TO THE EDITOREDITORIAL
Despite Joe Duckworth’s conscientious and admirable work 
to develp a student-run judicial system, the Senate voted Tues­
day afternoon to defeat the proposal, primarily because of Mr. 
Burgess’ eloquent statements that the new court system did not 
improve the present diciplinary system.
Although we have supported Mr. Duckworth's efforts in past 
editorials, we find it hard to disagree with Mr. Burgess’ objec­
tions. The problem, however, seems to be twofold. Number one: 
the senators, during the past several months of deliberations— 
including Mr. Duckworth’s invitations to attend open meetings 
to discuss the new system—did not deem it necessary to attend 
to voice their objections. Mr. Burgess is as much at fault as any 
of the other representatives, probably more. In addition, it 
seems as though the surprise vote came as a result of the sena­
tor’s shock that the system, as proposed, was not perfect. Any­
one who spent time developing the system would have know that 
none of its proponents thought it was perfect. The objections 
brought before the Senate Tuesday should not have come as a 
surprise if the senators had been thinking seriously of the impli­
cations and meanings of the proposed system.
Our purpose here is not to blame particular senators for the 
system’s defeat, but rather to inform the campus of exactly why 
Mr. Burgess’ objections were positively received.
Mr. Burgess' objections merit comment. His statement 
students are not sure whether or not they want the University 
to assume the role of loco parentis, despite their rhetoric, is 
quite accurate. Although students often claim to want the re­
sponsibility for their actions, many would also admit that they 
would rather have Dean Swank slap their hands than to be pro­
cessed through the new system. It is hypocritical, but it is true. 
Students tend to think of our administrators as being more fair 
than their fellow students. Sad—but accurate.
The fact that what the new system was doing was simply 
taking over the administration's dirty work is also, in many 
ways, true. For according to the proposed system, the prosecu­
tion could appeal and appeal until the system reaches the desired 
verdict. Of course, we recognize that, as in civil courts, an ap­
peals body can refuse to hear a case. But the grounds on which 
the Student Appeals Board or Dr. Stever, as the final appeals 
level, could refuse is very nebulously defined. Even the present 
system does not permit appeals to the presidential level. We are 
giving the administration, in fact, more power than they pre­
sently have.
Mr. Burgess further stated that although the present system 
does not have students’ approval, by voting for the new system 
students would be somewhat obliged to support it. Supporting an 
imperfect system would be as bad as the present system which 
has not gained its legitimacy from those over whom it governs.
These and other problems were inherent in the proposed 
system. We are sorry that the Senate did not consider them be­
fore the proposal was brought up for final approval. Certainly 
there was ample time for objections to be raised during the long 
deliberations which involved not only Mr. Duckworth, but also 
the Faculty Senate, members of the administration and about 20 
senators. These people must be commended for devoting many 
long, hard hours considering other proposals, such as last year's 
UAC recommendation, and for consulting legal counsel, among 
others. The delay caused by Tuesday’s vote will only result in a 
time lag, which, if events such as the September demonstrations 
reoccur, will prove damaging to student interests.
Tuesday’s discussion seemed to revolve around whether the 
system should be based on student power as Mr. Purgess advo­
cated, or whether it should be based on student pressure, mak­
ing it sufficiently awkward for the University to interfere, as 
proposed by Mr. Duckworth.
We urge the new Senate to put this item on the agenda as its 
first order of business, to resolve the above differences and to 
hammer out a judicial system and corresponding campus code 
which will insure and guarantee to the student his rights.
As Mr. Burgess stated, laws can oppress. But laws can also 
free.
TQRlQN
Fashionft fdfy. Dafotu. uvt eyitu.
Editorial and Business Offices—Skibo 103 
rnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, rtipbylivlmnif,
obkiupf rtipby Jenifer Digby
siness guvucfy Sue Cattano
-ucivc rtipby Wayne Barron
. ?o rtipby Jamie Edlin
ea fares rtipby ............................................................................................\ Chuck Daly
jorfs rtipbyo Alan Letzt and Larrv Brean
wfoV rtipbyo Meredith Hall and Harriet Nadel
FnbpbcyuEn. rtipbyo William °ence
and Joe Tyler
Page 2—THE TARTAN—Friday, March 13, 1970
MDC President Urges Retention of Young
Editor. The Tartan:
As president of Men s Dormitory Council. I ieel 
that I should express the concern of the residents 
regarding the resignation of William D. Young, di­
rector of Security, and the acceptance of same. Dur­
ing the past year. I have served as chairman of the 
Dormitory Improvements and Security Committee, 
and thus have been thrown into frequent and close 
contact with Chief Young. Through this. I have come 
to learn a fair amount about our Security Depart­
ment.
The C-MU Security and Safety Department has 
been personally developed and molded by Chief 
Young into an effective and thorough system that 
in some regards is unique to C-MU alone. What 
other university has seen a major and sensitive 
demonstration planned and carried out in full con­
junction with the campus security division in such a 
way as to assure order and safety tor all involved! 
Where else has such a coordinated and commend­
able job been done in such an emergency as the Ski­
bo food poisoning of Jan. 27V
It is my understanding that Chiel Young's resig­
nation came as a result of a failure in the intercom­
munications and the lack of coordination between 
the Security division and the administration. This.
indeed, is undesirable, for open channels of com­
munication generally allow for most problems to be 
satisfactorily resolved. Last year, for instance, it 
was decided that daylight Security officers would no 
longer wear sidearms. On the force this was an un- 
po.ular decision, but after it was properly present­
ed. the system worked itself out. Subsequently, the 
force continued to maintain a high level of morale 
and self-esteem.
Director Young has developed the division into a 
iorm that has been used as a model for other uni­
versities. and which has received commendations 
Irom national police organizations and federal agen­
cies. The present budget for the department is on 
the order of one quarter of a million dollars. This in 
itself merits close coordination at all times, yet the 
department must function as an entity unto itself.
I personally urge an immediate review and eval­
uation of the situation in conjunction with the needs 
of students, faculty, administration and Security, 
ultimately resulting in the retention of Chief Wil­
liam Young as director of Security and Safety.
Sincerely.
Samuel Frenkil 
President. 1970-71 
Men s Dormitory Council
Shocked That Technical Has Been Killed
Editor. The Tartan:
I'm shocked to read that the Technical has been 
killed by Student Senate on the grounds that it does 
not benefit the campus community at large' (Tar­
tan, March 6. page onei. With the quality of student 
writing steadily improving and more and more 
courses switching from exams to papers. I should 
have thought that nothing could be of greater bene­
fit to the campus community than a magazine tor
student articles. In my opinion Student Senate 
would do better to subsidize the publication of the 
fresh ideas of students than to pay exorbitant fees 
tor the stale rhetoric of speakers like Senator Thur­
mond.
Harold L. Burstyn 
Associate Professor 
History of Science
Panhellenic Council Supports Chief Young
Editor. The Tartan:
We as a representative group would like to join 
in support of the growing concern over campus se­
curity. We feel that the security force should be in­
creased and lighting improved. We encourage that 
actvn be taken immediately in obtaining these addi­
tional security measures. In addition. Chief Young's 
resignation is viewed as a campus loss. Although 
we realize the pressure he is under, we laud his ef­
forts and urge the University not to accept his resig­
nation.
Panhellenic Council
True of South Vietnam? Or United States?
Editor. The Tartan:
I was very glad to hear from the silent majority 
recently, and I hope they continue to speak out. How­
ever. I must disagree on several points in Mr. Chris­
toph's letter.
I find it increasingly difficult to believe that we 
are in South Vietnam mainly to "defend its people 
from the many evils of Communism. Mr. Chris­
toph goes further to describe the repression of po­
litical liberty and a denial of human dignity. I really 
thought he was describing the present conditions in 
our beloved United States of America! However, 
seeing that Mr. Christoph believes in a system of 
absolute morals, it is not hard to concieve of this 
point of view. Especially since My Lai was "grie­
vous aberration " not reasoning that other such mas 
sacres have occurred and will continue to occur as 
long as we remain in a war in which we commit 
genocide.
I would now like to point out some facts about 
the war which make it inconceivable to warrant jus­
tification and involvement. For one thing. I don t 
regard napalming villages, defoliating forest, and 
massacring civilians as protecting the freedom and 
liberty of the South Vietnamese. I don t believe that 
stationing troops and bombing the Pathet Lao and 
North Vietnamese in Laos will save American lives. 
Furthermore. 1 don t believe that we are protecting 
our financial investments in Southeast Asia by pre­
serving this area as part of the American Empire. 
Yes. Mr. Christoph, if you believe we are in Vietnam 
to save the Vietnames people and also will volunteer 
to go anywhere to give life to maintain the Amer­
ican economic dominance and control over a coun­
try. then all 1 can say to you is * Hell. no. 1 won't 
go!" and must praise Mr. Friedman for his patriot­
ic and courageous stand
However, it seems to me that yqu must compre­
hend that the United States is an.imperialist power 
standing in the way ot social transformation 
throughout the world. We stand for the status quo 
and reaction. By doing this, we are able to keep con-
trol ot the raw materials and markets which we 
have over the Third World Countries. Our exploita­
tion of their natural resources and labor and our 
ability to keep their economy underdeveloped by 
keeping it in foreign debt enables our companies to 
maintain economic as well as political control. If 
they fail, we send troops, start coups, and do what­
ever else is needed to maintain the proper control. 
There are economic reasons for staying in South 
Vietnam. For one thing. South Vietnam has the po­
tential to become one of the richest countries in 
Southeast Asia. In case you didn't know, it possesses 
the potential to become an exporter of cotton, sugar, 
rice and rubber. In order to develop this potential 
capital is to be required, whether the socialist or 
capitalist kind. That's why Chase Manhattan and 
Bank of America opened branches in Saigon, and 
why. in this war. businessmen have a much greater 
profit realization in the Third World than on the 
domestic scene. In other words. Vietnam offers a 
wider frontier of opportunity for this investment.
That is why I cannot support a government 
whose policy disregards human life and stands for 
the quest of the profit. In this situation commun­
ism served as a good excuse for intervention only 
unfortunately for the United States government it 
did not realize until too late that this is a war of in­
ternal dimensions. It is not one of outside interfer­
ence. but a national civil war with nationalistic 
goals.
The Comino theory is just untrue: South Viet­
nam and North Vietnam are two separate countries, 
they are one country arbitrarily divided.
The thing that scares me is that after Vietnam, 
what next, for surely there will be more Vietnams 
threatening the United States empire. Therefore. 
Mr. Christoph, maybe you'll take another look at 
Vietnam before you fight. 4n other wars which you 
are so willing to do.
Peace.
........ Peter Fusaro
History.1972

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, March 13, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 3
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Editor. The Tartan:
This letter is a response to the 
article by H. A. Christoph in the 
last issue ot The Tartan (which 
was a response to an article by 
Steve Friedman».
It is important to make several 
points clear about the position held 
by Mr. Christoph and those much 
like his. Let me proced in a loose 
structure, point by point.
1) Although he later talks about 
the freedoms we enjoy in Ameri­
ca. he starts out by telling us why 
we are in Vietnam. ". . . to pre- 
ent the . . . extermination . . ."I 
don't agree. Do I also have the 
freedom to tell people why we are 
there? If I do. do I then have any 
kind of freedom to influence my 
reaction to the situation—or is the 
•freedom " academic? If ration­
alizations such as his are used 
land suffice yet! » to explain draft­
ing people to kill and die. then my 
reasons (you can even call them 
rationalizations, it's all the samei 
are good enough for revolution.
2» He is right that Amerikan 
atrocities do not excuse VC atro­
cities. It works both ways: the ar­
gument is symetric. As a student 
of human behavior, however. I 
can better understand the savage 
response of Viet troops than that 
of foreign invaders. No lessening 
of abhorrence—only a questioning 
of why.
31 ". . . there is in fact no valid 
comparison between what we are 
doing and what the North Viet­
namese are doing . . . " Right on! 
He says the other side is "pur­
poseful.” we try to avoid civilian 
deaths. Air bombing raids, na­
palm. search and destroy, free- 
fire zones, pacification, and ¦‘em­
ptying the sea from the fist (i.e..
the guerrilas»" are a few of the 
ways Amerikans go out of their 
way to avoid civilian casualties. 
Compare any estimate of figures 
for civilian deaths. Also — are 
there any civilians in the north? 
Or are they all commies up there 
—deserving to die? Dig it Mr. 
Christoph—who is purposeful and 
who isn't is the other way around.
41 Mylai was not an aberration! 
We all wish it was—to the point of 
.saying so. some of us. Mylai. like 
the Vietnam fiasco itself is a log­
ical. natural, and repeatable <! i 
outgrowth of the state of this coun­
try.
51 Nixon regrets Mvlai. Ho re­
gretted Hue. Sure we can give 
reasons for Mylai—the VC can for 
Hue too (you haven't heard of 
them I'm sure»that does not make 
them disappear. That is war. It's 
not my war—FUCK IT. It's Nix­
on's war. your war. it belongs to 
those who support it and to those 
who don't oppose it.
61 'We are also in South Viet­
nam to defend its people from the 
other many evils of communism. "
a. See < 1 >.
br No communist ever called me 
nigger tried to get me killed 
tried to put me in jail etc. I put 
up with that shit here.
c. Go to hell.
71 Mr. Christoph asks Fried­
man if he would wish a system 
(i.e.. "harrassment of religion, no 
free enterprise, no political lib­
erty and a denial of human digni­
ty"» on this other country that he 
would not want here. I won t speak 
for Friedman, but for myself:
a. Only certain types of religion 
are not harassed in Amerika (har­
assment of religion is the rule in
the south of Vietnam».
b. I wouldn't wish free enter­
prise on a dog.
c. In Amerika you have political 
liberty within a small range, the 
range is so small that people can­
not even imagine that people lie 
outside it (or don't call it poli­
tics». I refused induction, that was 
politics baby—like you never saw 
before. Five vears in jail and $10.- 
000.
d. Don t talk to me of human 
dignity, soldier.
e. If you wish to impose a sys­
tem (or de-impose a system» on 
some other country it is still not 
your duty to go kill for it—and it 
certainly is not my duty to let you 
force me into helping you do what 
you want to do to someone else. 
Question: or isn't that included in 
this "political freedom and hu­
man dignity " that you speak 
about?
8» You are right: struggle for 
freedom is better than peace with 
slavery. Support the Panthers, 
support resistance, revolution 
now!!
9» "Give me libertv or give me 
death.' Right on! MY FREEDOM 
has more to do with revolution in 
this country than with fighting for 
a corrupt regime on the other side 
of the world. MY FREEDOM has 
more to do with deciding on my 
my own to go into the army or not 
than it does with suppressing the 
struggles of the peasants in the 
Third World.
10» Again you are right, the 
South Vietnamese government 
needs our army. I need money for 
a lawyer—would you be willing to 
pay taxes to help me?
Ill . . it would still be in the
“The last word 
in thrillers. 
Terrific.”
Gene Shalit. Look Magazine
best interests of the freedom of 
which we are the prime protector 
. . Hereafter I will refer to this 
as "The Idiot's Burden."
12» Second (he goes on) we 
must "draw the line." (Read at 
this pointvssubvocally—"coun­
tries are like dominoes."» I can 
only presume that the commies 
aren't allowed to do the same. Or 
maybe Mr. Christoph feels that 
Vietnam is on "our side" of the 
middle of the world. (Could it be 
that Amerika wants to have more 
than half, that they want to take 
territory away from them, that 
we want to conquer the world—no. 
no. sorry those are the guys with 
black hats.»
13» ". . . the entire world is 
watching. " Right on! And do you 
really think the world sees us in a 
better light because of this war?
14» ". . . defiling of our national 
character." ("Treaties, pledges, 
men and ideals." i I flount by de­
filing of your treaties, pledges, 
and ideals. I indict you for turn­
ing your back on everything that 
is at the core good about this land 
in favor of those fucking treaties, 
as inine pledges, and bassackward 
ideals.
15) Mr. Christoph, what is this
“victory" of which you speak? 
("Carry on to victory.") Do you 
see no standards above the mili­
tary ones involved? And if so how 
do you keep them from conflict­
ing?
16) “I believe in an absolute sys­
tem of morals based upon the 
Bible, and I am certain that my 
position is in total accordance 
with this system.” Groovy. I’ve 
got my own thing. If your moral 
system allows you to advocate 
forcing others to act in accordance 
with it, then it ought to allow me 
to advocate forcing you to act in 
accordance with mine. In lieu of 
your support for my position you 
can expect me to physically at­
tempt to restrain you and other 
‘ educated” young men from en­
tering the active army.
Thomas D. Burges, II
Academy Award Nomination-Best Picture of the Year
EDI
TODIREA
25< Indoor Parking! Evenings 
öfter 5 pm. Sat., Sun. & Heli-I 
days after Ì pm. Indoor The­
atre Entrance from Garage| 
Red Uvei.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN—Friday, March 13, 1970
L__2E_RDE CDEA OLRP
Fashion of today. Do you have a hair problem, taking care of 
your long- hair? Do you want to be a new you? Visit ENRICO, 
he’s a genius in that field, because it requires Ability and Tech­
nique as a Talented Artist like ENRICO. Haircutting isn’t just 
a matter of snipping1! This famous hairstylist actually shapes 
each section of your hair, to suit your own facial contours. And 
to give you that casual look of ''ROMEO/7 and the CAESAR, 
the "SHAG," the "WIND BLOWN" cut of today fashion. Every 
man should know about Thinning Hair ... is your Hair weak or 
flimsy? Do you suffer from dandruff, itchev scalp, “because you 
have been using the wrong shampoo?” Why worry? ENRICO, 
he’s a genius. He can advise you to condition yourTiair and scalp 
with RX Acid Balance Protein Shampoo. Also Customized in the 
new Julius Caesar hairpieces._O2 E2I 2EPRND TLCDE
CLOSED MONDAYS
DLWCLEB OLPBILP2 S _DH ND&
CMlTs Convenient Headquarters for Hardware
? Desk Lamps i Key Service ? Artist Brushes
? Hot Plates ? Poster Paints ? School Supplies
3606 FORBES AVENUE OAKLAND PHONE: 621-0923
"Students for Israel" will be 
sponsoring "Israel Day" on 
March 16 from 11 a.m. to 4 
p.m. in the Skibo lobby. Fea­
tured will be Israeli films, na­
tive food and music.
8.00 p.m. -12 p.m. 
except Monday
V«“*_ t«’1
709 Belief on te Street 
Shedyskk
207 OAKLAND AVE below Forbe*BY APPOINTMENT 682-3738
CEDAR POINT
LEED*EN2T 
_ORPB LEE*LC
TAIÆNT 
T2LPNO
SCOIIKTI2SY CORKS
RE_2PVR2IT,1970,
L AP2L_ T*..2P 
2.GCDH.2E_ DGGDP_*ER_H
AREA AUDITION WRITE:
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
I WEDNESDAY, MARCH 18CEDAR POINT
WEBSTER HALL HOT& * LIVE SHOW DEPT.
Georgian Terrace 
Interview« 3:00 p.m. 
Auditions 5:00 p.m.
SANDUSKY, 
OHIO 44870
NRICp DOr’r qC gA’r Ae” The Wide, tojw Wild World of New Film
' in
eorgooi Nanccoc UK nr TrY,4 eKon8
-SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
391S FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE t, NORTH OF ETNA 791 • PENN AVENUE
FREE —INTOLERANCE,
by D. W. Griffin, Sunday, 
March 15, Carnegie Lecture 
Hall, Carnegie Institute, 7:30.
HOMEWORKERS WANTED
Envelope addressers; send Self Ad* 
dressed. Stamped Envelope. OVER« 
SEAS JOBS; HIGH PAY, List of Com­
panies Hiring; $1.00. The Elliot Co., 
748 Washington Ave. Miami Beach, 
Florida 33139.
VISIT THE...
TARTAN COFFEEHOUSE
27oK4 TnrYK,n4 E0ro” 
0i rho _nKrni AK0aa
8:30 p.m. till 1:00 a.m.
EU L,d0cc0Ui NhnKtoj wKoo NU””ool
Sponsored by 
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
& MEN'S DORM COUNCIL
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos & Pipes in the City
ePRLP eDIC
3725 Forbes St. 681-6045
Nationally Advertised Pipes
OUg _U Aor L 
BUfrUK D” B070i0r4 BotKoo
Doctor of Divinity degrees are issued 
by Universal Life Church, along with 
a 10-lesson course in the procedure 
of setting up and operating a non­
profit organization. For a free will 
offering of $20 we will send you, 
immediately, all 10 lessons in one 
package along with the D.D. certifi­
cate.
UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
BOX 6575 
HOLLYWOOD, FLORIDA 33021
Peter Whitehead’s Swinging
“TONIGHT LET S ALL MAKE LOVE IN L0N00N”
with Michael Caine, The Rolling Stones,
Julie Christie, Eric Burdon, others.
Albert Lamorisse’s elegant "VERSAILLES”
and 5 other surprises
KINETIC ART-PROGRAM TWO-Wherrett Room
Saturday, March 14th—7:30 and 10:00 
Sunday, March 15th-2:00, 4:30, 7:30 and 10:00 
TICKETS—$1.00—at Skibo Information Desk
Sponsored by The Activities Board
3oinAMERICAN AIR TRAYALAIRS
^J~(u Do J-ort cjCauderdafey ^so ^jrori c*t-a uaeraaie
INCLUDES: ONLY $100 COMPLETE
TAM MEMBERSHIP ROUND TRIP AIR FARE
BREAKFAST AND BOXED LUNCHEON ON PLANE
LEAVE 9 A.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, COUNTY AIRPORT, WEST MIFFLIN 
LEAVE FT. LAUDERDALE AIRPORT, 10 A.M. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1
HURRY - ONLY 35 RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE - HURRY
PHONE: 824-5001 - After 6 P.M. McKeesport - 672-7485
%
R_FT NOW rho SQUIRREL HILL rhonrKo

---------------------------------------------------

Shuttle Bus March 18
Friday, March 13, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 5
by Gary Straus
It you are one of the many stu­
dents who takes advantage of an 
inexpensive ride to the Greater 
Pittsburgh Airport, you probably 
take for granted the shuttle bus 
service provided by Alpha Phi 
Omega on the last day of classes.
On March 18. numerous stu­
dents whose only desire is to flee 
the campus routine as quickly as 
possible, will eagerly board buses 
at Morewood Gardens and Donner 
Hall. This is simply the end result 
of months of preparation by the 
service fraternity.
Soon after the beginning of the 
spring semester, the shuttle bus 
chairman < this year Stan Britt- 
man. junior electrical engineering 
major from Norfolk. Va.> begins 
planning the Easter bus service. 
He has. as do all other Alpha Phi 
Omega committee chairmen, near- 
lv complete autonomy over his 
service project.
What makes his job easier is 
the unique work organization of 
the service fraternity. Just about 
every brother is chairman of some 
project or another but rather on 
the brothers helping each other.
¦ This is the basis of our fraterni­
ty." stated one of thsbrothers.
Even though Mr. Brittman is 
chairman of the shuttle bus. the 
project is often discussed among 
the brothers. Ideas and sugges­
tions for improving the service 
and making it more convenient to
the students who use it are fre­
quently incorporated into the final 
plans.
Departure times from the cam­
pus are set at noon. 2 p.m. and 
4:45 p.m. becuase these times are 
best for catching afternoon and 
early evening planses. During the 
past year the one stop at Skibo has 
expanded to two. at Morewood and 
Donner. The Morewood pickup is 
15 minutesbefore departure time 
in order to be convenient for the 
increasing number of women stu­
dents taking advantage of the 
service.
The per person cost is figured 
on the basis of a filled bus. aiming 
to just break even with bus rental 
and publicity charges. Increased 
bus rental this year has forced the 
price of the trip up to $1.50. 
which is still far cheaper than air­
port limousine or taxi cab.
In spite of all the planning and 
publicity, there is a planned finan­
cial loss built into the project. A 
bigger bus than the demand calls 
for is always ordered so that last 
minute students can still get a 
seat. Alpha Phi Omega's aim is 
not to make money but rather to 
provide the most convenient 
transportation to the airport.
Only after all this planning does 
the shuttle bus roll out from the 
campus, carrying students to the 
airport to begin their Easter va­
cation.
2EARE22PREA APLB*L_2T
The Inland Steel Company, Indiana Harbor Works, East Chicago, Indiana, 
invites you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the speci­
fic job description in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will 
be on your campus on
THURSDAY, APRIL 2, 1970
RECLEB T_22C ND.GLEH
INDIANA HARBOR WORKS
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
The CPA, a quiet revolutionary.
In the last few years business has 
changed as much as skirt lengths. So 
has the work of the CPA.
Today the CPA helps solve a host 
of problems rising from new technol­
ogy (including the computer) and the 
changing social scene.
He must be able to develop and 
interpret a wide range of economic 
data as a basis for decision-making 
and corporate planning.
If you are a creative thinker, with 
a strong analytical ability, account­
ancy may be the profession for you.
You might join an independent 
accounting firm, serving a varied list 
of clients, perhaps becoming a part­
ner eventually. Or you might start 
your own practice.
Or you might become a key man 
on the management team of a busi­
ness, or join a non-profit enterprise, 
or work in education or government.
What other profession offers so 
many choices? Talk with your faculty 
advisor or. .
I Tf you’d like to learn more about the work | 
I of a CPA, clip this coupon and mail to: Dept.
| PI2, PICPA, 1100 Lewis Tower Bldg., Phila., |
Pa. 19102
Name:______________________________________I
Address:
Pennsylvania Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants I

---------------------------------------------------

Sigma Nu Meets EJ Bruins Tonight 
IM All-Stars vs. Steelers At 8:30
The stage is set for tonight’s big intramural night. Sigma Nu will battle the EJ Bruins for 
the IM basketball crown at 7 p.m. After award presentations, the big Steeler team swings into ac­
tion agains the IM All-Stars. Admission is free by ID card.
Sigma Nu topped Kappa Sigma in the semi-finals by a score of 51-45. SN pulled ahead by 
six points in the first half but two buckets by KS in the last 25 seconds of the half made the score 
27-25. Sigma Nu “held” Ed Peretich, who had scored 17 in the first half, to six in the final two 
quarters—and went on to win by
Page 6—THE TARTAN—Friday, March 13, 1970
six. Stevens and Hal Shaffer each 
scored 12 points for SN. Mark 
Wood and Mike Kuhnel had 11 a 
piece for KS.
In the other semi-final game, 
the EJ Bruins defeated the Old 
Men. Down by eight points in the 
final quarter, the Bruins staged a 
big comeback to knot the score, 
and send the game into overtime. 
With the Old Men ahead, 42-41, 
Jim Selevan scored for the EJ’s 
and was fouled. Selevan missed 
the free throw but Sam Hickmen, 
who did a great job for the Bruins 
off the boards, grabbed the re­
bound and scored the bucket that 
put the EJ’s in front by three, 45- 
42. The grads scored one basket 
to make the final score EJ’s 45, 
Old Men 44. Selevan and Bob Burn­
er shared the scoring honors for 
the EJ’s with 11 each. Rich Mull­
ins led all scorers with 20 points 
for the Old Men.
Surprisingly, both of the teams 
in tonight's final game finished 
second in the regular season
league schedule. The Bruins came 
in second in the Knicks League, 
losing the Beta Theta Pi. 42-38. 
while playing without the services 
of Denny Kavchak. Kavchak was 
lost for the remainder of the sea­
son with a broken finger. Sigma 
Nu came cut of a three way tie in 
the Hawks League to finish sec­
ond behind the Oakland A s.
The second big basketball game 
tonight pits the Pittsburgh Steel- 
er’s “ton of beef” against the IM 
All-Stars. The Steelers have such 
names as Roy Jefferson, Dick 
Hoak and Ben McGee playing un­
der coach Bernie Regan. The All- 
Star team is composed of the best 
players in the intramural program 
and will be coached by former 
Tech varsity star Don Keefer.
In addition, stewardesses from 
an Australian Airline will pass 
out programs and act as host
esses.
Between halves of the charri 
pionship game. Harold Herre will 
present awards to winners of com-
Paul Leads Rifle Team 
To 5th Place In I.S.S.S.
by Jon Arnold
Carnegie-Mellon's winningest 
team has come home with some 
more trophies. Last Saturday the 
Tartan riflemen shot in the Inter­
national Shoulder-to-Shoulder sec­
tional meet held at Pitt. The teams 
took a solid fifth place, winning six 
medals, and Wray Paul, the amaz­
ing freshman shooter, took second 
place in the individual competi­
tion.
There were 20 teams entered in 
the meet, including Gannon Col­
lege, Bowling Green, Bucknell, 
Scranton, Grove City, Xavier, and 
Penn State, but the top five teams 
in the International competition 
were from our own league, the 
WPIRL. In order, from the top, 
they were Clarion, Pitt, Duquesne, 
Indiana, and C-MU. This will give 
the casual observer some idea of 
the quality of competition that the 
rifle team is against in the WPIRL.
Wray Paul's second high score 
is even more noteworthy. He shot 
a 280. one point behind first place. 
There were 193 shooters in that 
individual competition, and some 
of the best shooters in the coun­
try are from this area. Since 
scores in this range are typical of 
All-American shooters Tech 
might have a future All-American 
in Paul
The Tartans meet Geneva this 
Friday and have a juel match with 
Duquesne and St. Francis this Sat­
urday for their final league match. 
We re now in second place and if 
we win these next three, first 
place here we come!
TRY OUT FOR 
SPRING FOOTBALL
ALL STUDENTS WELCOMED
SIGN UP NOW-
ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT
GYM 102 
Practice Begins—April 1st 
Ends—April 18th
ILE_2B
FOOTBALL & TRACK 
MANAGERS
Gym 102
Round-trips to Europe by Jet, some for $199.00
Information and reservations: Prof. Paul Krumenacker, 510 
Estelle Drive, Lancaster, Pa. 17601; Tel. (717) 898*2700. 
Also "GRAND TOUR OF EUROPE" including Russia, 50 days 
all expenses paid, for $1,098.00.
ORIGINAL HOT 006 SHOP«
D7oK m' .0aa0Ui OU”M
WITH THIS- i
between th*fcMMof&ium. amf
PatCavPvvnghvt
oft ÍME|Íl|SW®U«f«$ FOR $1.00 
¿ . , OR FISH SANDWICHES FO« $1.001
\r ^ VAUD UNTIL MARCH 20th
• YOUR CHOICE •
OPEN 24 HOURS3901 FORBES AVE.
¦—Tech
pleted IM sports. Any team re­
ceiving an award is requested to 
send a representative to the gym 
by 7:30 p.m.
The program is under the direc­
tion of Earl J. Birdy. director of 
Intramural Athletics at C-MU. 
Better come early to get a good 
seat. This fine evening of basket­
ball entertainment is free to C-MU 
students, faculty, employees and 
their guests.
IM All-Star Team
Forwards
Name Team
Bob Burner—EJ Bruins 
Ken Petrosky—BTP 
Reggie Bennett—Reggie Show 
Hal Shaffer-SN 
Rich Sehlin—Old Men "A 
Henry Ryan—Black Magics 
Mark Wood—KS 
Tony Bugei—ATO 
John Cornuelle—GSIA
Guards
Richie Mullins—Old Men 
Andy Onda—BTP 
Ed Peretich—KS 
Charles Fields—Black Magics 
Dave Aber—SAE 
Jim Selevan—EJ Bruins 
Sean Cassidy—BTP 
James Jordan—Black Magics
Tartanettes 
Now 8-2
Victory once again came to the 
C-MU women's basketball team 
on Saturday after tasting defeat 
at the hands of Pitt and Indiana 
last week. By outscoring Califor­
nia in the second quarter. C-MU 
chalked up the eighth win of its al­
ready winning record which now 
stands at 8-2 with one remaining 
game.
On Saturday. California came 
,to defeat at the C-MU home court. 
Initially they seemed to pose a 
threat as the first quarter score 
showed a tie of 9-9. Their defense 
weakened under the shooting ac­
curacy of C-MU. however, and at 
the half California trailed. 30-11. 
In the remaining two quarters, 
scoring was balanced but the dam­
age had been done. C-MU was able 
to control the game as California 
was forced to play catch-up ball. 
The scoring in the 57-38 win was 
done by Nancv Chandler (24 pts. i. 
Paula Vergith (14 pts.». Linda 
Hood (14 pts. i. Karen Wise (four 
pts.». and Evie Litwok (one pt.i. 
The defensive work by Chris 
Adamow and Karen Wise proved 
to be key elements in the win. The 
last game of the season will be 
against Point Park at home.
TäRTANSportS
Voll. 6l9o,N4V V92C2 
9-M2UlF
Fnbpb s. guyp. Tuafy 
SIGMA NU players Lewis (44) and Dolbow battle for rebound with Kap­
pa Sig’s Wood as Kuhnel and Peretich (14) look on. Sigma Nu won the 
semi-final game, 51-45, and plays the EJ Bruins for the championship. **
Intramural Semi-final Games EJ Bruins vs. Old Men
EJBRUINSOld Men
FG FT FPts.FGFT F
Selevan3-115- 8111Sehlin4-172- 2
Burner5-111- 2411Mullins8-194- 5
Hicken3- 94- 6110Yalch1- 40- 0
Beer3- 51- 217Perkins2-101- 2
Modzelewski2- 72- 416Oosterhaus2-120- 0
Kopko0- 00- 000Adams0- 30- 0
Stalker1- 41- 1
Totals16-4313-22845Parti0- 20- 0
Totals18-718-10
EJ Bruins7 148 12
10
20
2<5
4
0
1 3
Old Men
17 44
9 12 14 6 3-44
Sigma NuVS.KappaSigma
SIGMA NUKAPPA SIGMA
FG FT FPts.FG FT FPts.
Dolbow2- 61- 13 5Petretich10-20 3- 5423
Mastrian3- 83- 43 9Wood3-12 6- 9211
Lewis4-121- 34 9Collins0-2 0-010
Stevens6-140- 12 12Eckner0-3 0-200
Shaffer6- 90- 01 12Kuhnel3-11 5- 5311
Ringler1- 40- 01 2—
Kneisley0- 02- 21 2Totals16-47 14-211045,
Sigma Nu13 14 1014--51Totals22-537-1315 51Kappa Sigma 12 13 713--45
I.M. REVIEW
Handball Quarter-Finals
The Faculty Bulldogs whipped 
the Old Men Physics and the Old 
Men Lithium No. 6 beat ATO. The 
seni-finals will have the Physics 
Dept, playing 3E-4A and the Fac­
ulty Bulldogs battling Old Men Li­
thium No. 6.
Wrestling
ATO won the team chamption- 
ship and BTP came in second.
Individual Results
288
286
281
WinnerTeamWeight
SummersPKA126
NotaryIND.134
KohanIND.142
TurnerBTP158
O BarskiATO167
VenturaATO177
EvanokaATOUnlimited
Foul Shooting
TeamShots/500
Old Men A405
EJ "Butterballs'*392
SAE388
ATO372
BTP -A369
SN365
KS325
PKA321
TDP320
DU300
BTPrB” * -,297
PKT
Oakland A s 
Old Men Ardvarks
Individual Winner
Petris. Oakland A s—90 100
BASKETBALL 
MINOR LEAGUE
Semi-Finals
Sludge beat the EJ Bandits. 50- 
37. as Vessley scored 12. Karl 
Marietta had 15 for the Bandits
All-School Ballots
All-school basketball nomina­
tions were taken Tuesday. Ballots 
must be returned to the IM oft ice 
by Tuesday. March 17. at 4 30 
p.m. Each organization fielding a 
major league team has one vote.
IM Due Dates
Rifle and team badminton ros­
ters will not be due until next 
Tuesday. March 17. A minimum 
of five and a maximum of 10 may 
compete in rifle matches and the 
fee per man is $2. Practice ses­
sions will be held March 31. 
April 1. 2 and 3 with the match 
scheduled for April 7. Teams may 
sign up for practice at the range 
in Margaret Morrison.
Team badminton rosters re­
quirements are lour minimum 
and eight maximum. - 1

---------------------------------------------------

Would You Like 
To Become A Minister?
ORDINATION is without 
question and for life. LEGAL 
in all 50 states and most for­
eign countries. Perform legal 
marriages, ordination, and 
funerals. We need your help 
to cover mailing, handling, 
and administration costs. 
Your generous contribution 
is appreciated.
ENCLOSE A FREE WILL OFFERING 
Writ* to: UNIVERSAL LIFE CHURCH 
80X 8071 
FT. LAUDERDALE,.FLORIDA 33314
FASSINGER RETIRESI
by AL LETZT, Tartan Sports Editors 
and Larry Brean
University of Pittsburgh Theatre
PRESENTS
ROSENCRANTZ AND GUILDENSTERN 
ARE DEAD
by Tom Stoppard
Directed by F. Curtis Canfield
MARCH 6, 7, 11 -14, 18-21 
8:30 P.M.
STEPHEN FOSTER MEMORIAL 
Call 621-3600 ext. 331 for reservations
On The Sports Scene
Friday, March 13, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 7
Three weeks ago, the C-MU basketball team went to Cleve­
land for back-to-back games with Case and Western Reserve. 
The news reports that informed us that the Tartans lost the first 
game and won the second were of little surprise. But the concur­
rent news release of Coach Moe Fassinger s retirement came 
ps a surprise to everyone.
Coach Fassinger has been with Tech for 21 years (like a 
lot of us, he has a tough time remembering to call the school 
Carnegie-Mellon). Moe graduated from Pittsburgh’s South Hills 
High School and had played ball in the Municipal League until it 
disbanded in the mid 1940’s. He coached the St. Casmir High 
School team to an 11-0 section record. Later he coached an 
all-star team (which included Mel Cratsley) to three straight 
tournament victories. When Cratsley accepted the coaching job 
at Tech, he asked Moe to join him.
f Fortunately for Moe, his employers at Triangle News knew 
that he really enjoyed basketball and allowed him to adjust his 
working hours to fit in the new coaching duties.
When Mel Cratsley left Tech to become athletic director at 
Point Park, in 1966, Fassinger took over as head coach. Although 
the Steffans Scholarship, which had enabled alumni funds to be 
used to recruit talented athletes, was disbanded the year before, 
Moe's first season at the helm resulted in a 12-10 season. As the 
school followed its new “de-emphasization” policy, the talent 
phinned out and the victories harder to come by.
But, as Moe stated this week when discussing his retire­
ment, ' The people at Tech treated me well and we always had 
a lot of fun.”
Some of his most exciting moments included the Tech vic­
tories over big time colleges.
The win over Pitt last season, after a 14 year draught, was 
one big thrill. Other memorable moments included the two con­
secutive seasons in which we defeated West Virginia, with their 
ptar Hot Rod Hundley, three out of four times. The one loss came 
at their court, a 96-91 double overtime victory for WVU.
Once on the topic of past Teach teams and players, the name 
of Bill Soffa had to be mentioned. Fassinger personally scouted 
Soffa, who was one of the top players in the area in the late 
1950’s. Bill told Moe that CIT was his only choice, but his grades 
were on the borderline. Duke and other big colleges had offered 
Soffa basketball scholarhips. But he rejected them all and play­
ed for Tech when the Athletic Department helped him get ac­
cepted as an academic risk (one bad semester could have caused 
*him to be dropped >. Soffa went on to set every Tech scoring rec­
ord. But, in addition, he constantly improved his grades, made 
the Dean’s list by junior year, then went on to Oxford and earned 
his Masters degree.
Moe derives a lot of enjoyment from victory and likes to 
have talented ball players on his teams, but he stresses the im­
portance of the desire to win and team play. However, he thinks 
basketball should be fun too, and stressed this to every team he 
has coached.
I When asked at what time had he decided to retire, Moe re­
plied, “bout three or four years ago, however, my wife kept 
convincing me that I really didn't mean it."
After making his final decision this winter, he decided to 
wait to announce it until near the end of the season. “So my boys 
wouldn't think I was giving up on them.'' He informed Mr. 
Haynes first that weekend, then broke the story to Rege Ebner, 
the C-MU publicity director. Moe thinks that Jim Brown, who 
played on the Tech team of 1966 and was his assistant for four 
years would be a fine, dedicated coach. However, he said the 
the decision is up to the C-MU Athletic Department who must re­
view all applications submitted.
Coach Fassinger decided to retire so he can spend more 
time with his family. He will alos have more time to devote to 
his job as manager of Triangle News. However, he will continue 
his part time job as a “bird-dog” for the Cincinnati Reds base­
ball team.
C-MU lost a fine coach when Moe Fassinger decided to re­
lire this year. In addition, they lost the employment of a fine, 
Sincere person with a lot of class.
Fnbpb s. ­fyy. CioVivt
MOE STOPS TO chat with his friend, Pitt coach Buzz Ridl, before this year’s C-MU-Pitt game. Pitt won this 
year, although the Tartans (minus Bob Brown) gave them a good battle tor most of the game.
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
We Rent and Repair Ttypewriters \ ¦ w,
; CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items 
3711 FORBES AVENUE Phone: 683-2181
Photo by Jerry Siskind
HERE’S THE COACH in his most recent moment of glory—being carried off the court after C-MU beat Pitt
last season, 68-64, at our gym.
Fnbpb s. mnuoH mbhf-uv 
WHEN THE FIGHT broke out during that amazing 
Tech victory over Pitt, Moe, and his assistant coach 
for four years, Jim Brown, were out on the floor try­
ing to calm down the players.
Fnbpb s. ­fyy. CioVivt 
EVEN WHEN AN opposing player gets hurt during 
a game, Coach Fassinger was the first one off the 
bench and to his aid.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Friday, March 13, 1970
INTERVIEW SCHEDULEu
Wednesday, April 1,1970
B0t0rna 29Y05doir 
Ao0t4 Nhod0fna NUd5ni4 
Eog 2itani, C0”o Ric& NU& 
G0rrc1YKth wUKt0itc NU&p 
2itFt _U5UtKn5h0fna Cn1&p 
wo,oKna O0thgn4 L,d0i&p 
Dh0U Bo5rj U” O0thgn4cp
Thursday, April 2,1970
LdoK0fni InroK IUK8c 
eanf8j T07naac S eK4cUip
eY,, NUd5ni4p
Riani, Trooap
|o””Ko4 .0i0it .nfh0ioK4 NU& 
|UhicUi ToK70fo NUd5ni4p 
.orKU5Ua0rni C0”o Ric&
.UUKo GKU,Yfrcp
IocroKi *i0Uip
LKd4 TofYK0r4 Ltoif4p
Friday, April 3,1970
eoaa U” Gn& scYddoK—p
NUo .niY”nfrYK0it NU&p 
NUKi0it Aanccp
WnY”dniiFcp
CY1K0vUap
.orKU5Ua0rni C0”o Ric&
Eog HUK8 B070c0Uip
.UiUitnhoan GUgoK NU&p
Enr0Uina Tod0fUi,YfrUKp
E& H& Trnro 2aoo& S Anc NU&p
|Uhic OU580ic *i07oKc0r4
L55a0o, Gh4c0fc Cn1&p
Monday, April 6,1970
AoioKna _0Ko S PY11oKp
|Uc& OUKio NUd5ni4 
|UhicUi S |UhicUi 
GoKcUina GKU,Yfrc B0 7&p
CUK, NUK5&
Eo70aao Nhod0fna NU&
TYi Nhod0fna NU&
Bo”oico TY55a4 Ltoif4 
En7na L0K Bo7& NoiroKp 
eYKonY U” rho eY,tor
Tuesday, April 7,1970
NUirKUa Bnrn NUK5UKnr0Uip
BoTUrnj Rif&p
OU””dni:CnPUfhop
2& w& OYrrUi NUd5ni4 
GoU5aoc EnrYKna Anc NUd5ni4p 
G0rrKUi
Pn4dUi, RiroKinr0Uinap
Po5Y1a0f T4crodc
eYKonY U” .0iocp
Eog HUK8 Bo5rj U” _Knic5UKrnr0Ui
En7na Th05 Poc& S Bo7& NoiroK 
Inch0itrUi B070c0Uip
Wednesday, April 8,1970
N0if0iinr0j Rif&
2Kicr S 2Kicrp
AUU, OYdUK scYddoK—
W0itc5UKr GKoccp
.orKU5Ua0rni C0”o Ric&
LfrYnK0na B070c0Uip
L0K wUKfo PofKYrr0it _ond
Thursday, April 9,1970
GY1a0f ToK7& 2aof& S Anc NU&p 
Nao7oani, GY1& TfhUUacuDh0U 
L0K wUKfo PofKY0r0it _ond 
LKd4 PofKY0r0it _ond
Friday, April 10,1970
|Uc& Tfha0rv eKog0it NU& 
Trnf85Uao NnK1Ui
* Indicates Citizenship or permanent residence 
visa required
I'
£
