Vol. X. No. 27Glhf Glarla
Vol.XN2X 7.TF2FPFX Hi TFPHi^oTnr^v ^i.nrvFvo.n is)
_E ESl22 CI CGCR
THESCIENCE i:SSUE
_________________________THE SCIENCE GROUP__________________________
DEAN LEETE REVIEWS HISTORY Of 
THE SCHOOL Of APPLIED S(IEN(E
TAD BETA PI INSTALLED
Pennsylvania Gamma Chapter of Na­
tional Honorary Fraternity 
Welcome.
The founding of a Chapter of Tau 
Beta Pi Fraternity in Carnegie, on 
Saturday night, February 19, 1916, 
marks another step toward the top. 
Tau Beta Pi, an honorary fraternity 
in engineering, was founded at Le­
high in 1885. Carnegie’s Chapter, 
called the Pennsylvania Gamma, is 
the third in this state, the others be­
ing at Penn-State and Lehigh. The 
charter was the culmination of the ef­
forts to have some good honorary 
fraternity, such as exists at the best 
Technical Colleges of the country, in 
order to mark in some fitting way 
high scholarship.
The ceremony of initiation was fol­
lowed by an installation banquet at 
the Hotel Schenley. Professor R. C. 
Matthews, President of the Univers­
ity of Tennessee, made the principal 
speech of the evening. Dean Leete 
and others of the faculty followed. 
Of the one hundred and fifty or so 
members in the vicinity of Pittsburgh, 
about twenty were present. No doubt 
more would have been present had 
an earlier announcement been pos­
sible.
Membership to the association is 
drawn from the Junior and Senior 
classes of the Engineering School 
only. The man standing highest in 
his class as determined by his first 
two years’ work is eligible at the be­
ginning of his Junior year, the upper 
eighth of the Junior class are eligible 
at the beginning of the second sem­
ester, and the upper quarter of the 
Senior class as determined by their 
first three years’ work at the begin­
ning of the Senior year. From these 
men, the membership is chosen by the 
chapter.
The charter membership at Tech 
is made up of sixteen Seniors whose 
names appear below:
In Facultate-—Dean J. H. Leete.
In Collegio—'Harold M. Bischoff, 
’16; Paul N. Bossart, ’16; Andreas 
Bowland, ’16; William N. Espy, ’16; 
Claude Ettele, ’16; Julius M. Guter, 
’16; Karl S. Henning, ’16; Morito 
Hirai, ’16; John E. Kirk, ’16; George
Continued on Page 2
The very earliest days of the School 
of Applied Science are unknown to 
me except in the form of lurid and 
harrowing narrations from the lips 
of those members of the faculty who 
were first on the ground. I Our ener­
getic Director, impatient toBehold in 
tangible form the vision which had 
possessed his soul since the first con­
ception of the undertaking, had 
opened to students of this School the 
doors of the building now occupied 
by the School of Applied Industries 
before the carpenters and the plas­
terers and the plumbers and the other 
minions of the contractor had given 
up their reign. (This statement must 
not be taken too literally, for if ac­
counts are true, there were no doors 
to open.) Those first days were lit­
erally a contest between mind and 
matter. Upon the arrival of the hour 
of a lecture the professor was com­
pelled to push the aforesaid minions 
into an adjoining room, from whence 
came the unsubdued racket of ham­
mer and saw as realistic and convinc­
ing demonstrations of dissertations 
upon energy, work and the evolution 
of an orderly universe from universal 
chaos. VThe survivors of these prim­
itive days now represented in our fac­
ulty, Professors Follows, Keller, 
Trinks, Work, and Wurts, are fully 
entitled to honorable mention in this 
connection. From such humble be­
ginnings (this doesn’t refer to the
faculty) have we sprung to our pres­
ent achievements in a short ten years.
The first courses of study to be of­
fered in the School of Applied Sci­
ence were those in Chemical, Civil, 
Electrical,^Mechanical and Metallur­
gical Engineering, all these courses 
being maintained in both the Day and 
the Night Schools. In them were en­
rolled 123 students as the charter 
class in the Day School, 169 students 
in the regular courses in the Night 
School and 162 special and prepara­
tory night students. These charter 
classes, though they did not have 
some of the opportunities now en­
joyed by present students in t'he way 
of equipment and wTell-defined courses 
©f study, were favored in the one re­
spect, at least, of having all their 
work under the Heads of Depart­
ments. They had, moreover, certain 
pioneer traits and a degree of initia­
tive which not only enabled them to 
make the most of their training, but 
has also made them particularly suc­
cessful in their engineering work.
Within a couple of months after 
the opening of the School, the base­
ment and first floor of the south and 
east wings of Machinery Hall were 
ready for occupancy by the Depart­
ment of Mechanical Engineering. The 
other departments of the School re­
mained in the Industries Buildings 
until 1908 when they were removed
Continued on Page 9
SCIENCE NIGHT SCHOOL OT ENGINEERING
“Tech” Affords Working Men Un­
usual Opportunity to Acquire 
Professional Training.
The Night School was the pet of 
the Carnegie Technical Schools fam­
ily. The pedagogical nurses engaged 
to superintend the birth and nurture 
of this infant prodigy held many and 
anxious consultations. The days of 
preparedness were strenuous.
Once the Day Science School had 
been set upon its conquering way, all 
thought and energy turned to this 
new task of fitly launching the night 
school.
The theory had been that the prac­
tical experience that was to be de­
manded of the thirsty aspirants to 
the wisdom of the night school, would 
cover a multitude of sins—of educa­
tional preparation. This theory like 
others that foMowed it, seemed to 
develop a decided limp when led out 
upon the track of practice. However, 
as a theory it has certain beauties of 
its own. Entrance examinations, in­
sisting stubbornly upon the delivery 
of certain more or less relevant facts 
not always encountered in so-called 
practice, were manifestly inadequate, 
so the personal interview was called 
in to sit in judgment upon the candi­
dates; also an ?ge limit promising 
greater maturity, was fixed.
Under these conditions it was as­
sumed that five years of night attack 
upon the strongholds of science 
should be approximately equivalent 
to the three-year day course then in 
vogue.
Back in 1905, word went abroad 
that on a certain night candidates for 
the Night Engineering School should 
present themselves for diagnosis. And 
they came. All ages, occupations, na­
tionalities; in eager variety and in 
somewhat embarrassing numbers con­
sidering the slim accommodations. We 
were occupying the west end of the 
Industries Building, with our fron­
tiers pushed to the very heels of the 
nonchalant builders, who saw no 
great urgency for haste, while the 
competition of a daily hammer chorus 
improved the instructors lung capa­
city if not their dispositions.
Jt was the original plan to employ
Continued on Page 10

---------------------------------------------------

2Site ©artatt
DEVELOPMENT OF FRATERNI­
TIES AND CLUBS.
Favorable Attitude of School Respon­
sible for Rapid Growth.
It is a most interesting thing to 
trace the growth, development, and 
history of the Fraternities and Clubs 
at Tech. In a short article of this 
kind it is not possible to go into de­
tail as a complete history of each 
club would make quite an interesting 
article in itself. The rapid growth 
of these organizations can be traced 
largely to the attitude of the school 
administration regarding them. In 
the early days of the school, when 
our dreams of dormitories were some­
where in the distant future, it was 
the most natural thing for students 
to form a group with the purpose of 
renting a house and establishing liv­
ing quarters to reduce the cost of 
living and to promote a spirit of 
good fellowship among their particu­
lar group and the student body at 
large.
As a necessary part of such an un­
dertaking, capital has to be obtained 
to finance the proposition. Here is 
where our good Director came to the 
aid of the aspiring students with per­
sonal loans which established the 
groups in comfortable quarters. The 
fostering of such groups has been a 
wise policy as the Clubs and Frater­
nities at Tech have always stood for 
a democratic school life; to them the 
welfare of Carnegie Tech comes first, 
and personal ambitions second.
The first club established was the 
Pioneer Tech Club at 5143 Woodlawn 
avenue. It was followed soon by the 
Woodlawn Club at 5137 Woodlawn 
avenue. Then came the Techmont 
Club on Beeler street. In the mean­
time other organizations were being 
effected, and while not conducting a 
house, they maintained their body a 
number of years, announcing their 
colors in the Thistle.
The above mentioned Clubs have 
since become Fraternities. Pioneer 
Tech became Sigma Tau. Woodlawn 
Club it still known by that name, 
although announcing itself as a fra­
ternity. Techmont Club became 
Gamma Kappa Club, and later was 
granted a charter by Theta Xi, a Na­
tional Fraternity. The order of the 
establishment of the Fraternities was 
agreed upon by the Interfraternity 
Council, and this order is adhered to 
each year in the Thistle. It is as 
follows:
Sigma Tau, Sigma Rho, Beta Theta 
Epsilon, Xi Sigma Upsilon, Zeta 
Lambda Epsilon, Pi Chapter of Theta 
Xi, Woodlawn Club, Sennachie (Sen­
ior Honorary), Delta Skull (Junior 
Honorary), and the Lawtochfrarie 
(Sophomore Honorary).
All of the Fraternities and Clubs 
are now well established. Practically 
all of the fraternities are petitioning 
National Fraternities. The next few 
years will add many interesting chap­
ters to the life of Fraternities at Tech.
DORM TEA.
On Sunday, April £th, Miss Coll- 
ingwood held her monthly tea. Miss 
Agnes Wright was chairman of the 
committee. Quite a number took the 
opportunity of calling.
SCIENCE SCHOLARSHIPS.
Many Generous Awards Encourage 
High Scholastic Standing.
The last few years have seen quite 
an activity both on the part of the 
institution and of the Alumni to es­
tablish scholarships in 'the school. 
The Science School has had the good 
fortune to receive three entrance, fif­
teen upper class, and six Alumni 
scholarships. The need of such help 
based upon real worth has long been 
felt and to meet this condition the 
institution and Alumni have respond­
ed generously. The Alumni have 
been particularly interested in this 
cause and it has almost become a tra­
dition that each graduating class 
award a scholarship. The basis of 
the award varies with the require­
ments fixed by each class but in gen­
eral, scholarship, need, personality, 
and interest in student activities and 
Tech form the standards.
The following awards are made by 
the Institution:
Three entrance scholarships, based 
upon the results of entrance examina­
tions and a personal interview with 
the Dean, are awarded to Plebes. The 
first prize consists of tuition and a 
cash gift of $100.00. The second and 
third prizes consist of tuition fees.
At the end of the Plebe year tuition 
scholarships are given for excellence 
in Mathematics, Chemistry, English 
and German. The second prize in 
each of these consists of half tuition.
At the end of the Sophomore year 
the same conditions obtain in the 
following subjects: Methematics,
Mechanics and Physics.
In the Junior year a first and second 
award is made to students in each 
engineering department based upon 
the work of the entire three years. 
These prizes are tuition for the first 
place and half tuition for the second.
The Alumni. Association has estab­
lished the Geo. H. Smith Scholarship 
of $100.00 to be awarded to a member 
of the Junior class each year.
The following classes have estab­
lished scholarships to be awarded to 
members of the Senior class:
Class of 1912 
Class of 1913 
Class of 1914 
Class of 1915
One individual tuition scholarship 
has been established by E. S. Rawle, 
’15, in honor of his mother, to be 
awarded to a member of the Sopho­
more class of the Hebrew race.
TAU BETA PI
Continued from Page 1
D. Lain, ’16; Benjamin Schwartz, ’16; 
Thomas F. Shea, ’16; Andrew M. 
Stevenson, ’16; Donald P. Swisher, 
’16; DeForest L. Trautman, ’16; Ther- 
on Wasson, ’16.
Fraters in Facultate of Other Chap­
ters—Prof. F. M. McCullough, A. H. 
Blaisdell, F. A. Simmons, Prof. H. 
S. Hower.
Elections from Junior Class—F. E. 
Orr, E. G. Peterson, D. A. Curtis, F.
C. Wilson, J. E. Borland, G, H. Jacob­
son, C. F. Hofstetter
THE HISTORY OF THE 
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.
First Games Played at Old Friendship 
Park.
There was a time when even foot­
ball was tolerated only as a necessary 
evil at Tech. It is natural, perhaps, 
that for a short period after the 
founding of the school it was very 
difficult to arouse any general enthu­
siasm for athletics. But although that 
fact must be considered, it is also 
true that the enthusiasm of those who 
did take an active interest was almost 
without limit. In spite of the fact 
that there was little or no organiza­
tion, they succeeded somehow with­
out it.
When the Director first organized 
the Athletic Association, the Board 
of Control consisted of a representa­
tive from each class of each school, 
both day and night—a total of about 
twenty-five members. From this 
number Bert Colmery was elected the 
first president. That position was no 
easy one, as there was always diffi­
culty in obtaining a quorum of the 
twenty-five members. During most 
of the early period, Prof. Leeds was 
treasurer of the board. Students were 
not charged the present activities fee 
of $5, and the board was compelled 
to rely almost entirely upon gate- 
receipts for their income. Naturally 
this income was so small that the 
whole early history of the associa­
tion may be expressed in one phrase, 
“a search for money.”
The first few years, the athletic
field was on top of a knob just above 
the spot where the Design School 
stands now. The condition of the 
field was such that it was impossible 
to hold anyibing like a successful con­
test, but the players managed some­
how to practice there. Old Friend­
ship Park was secured for the games; 
but in spite of the better conditions 
which that afforded, the athletes
were seriously handicapped by a lack 
of adequate practice. Practice, of
course, is of little value when the 
field is neither level nor free from 
rocks. The next step, therefore, was 
to obtain a good field of our own; 
and when an opportunity came to 
rent the ground where Forbes Field 
now stands, the men in charge lost 
little time in accepting it. About this 
time the Sesquicentennial was held in
Pittsburgh. For reviewing the parade 
on that occasion, there was a large 
stand erected along Fifth avenue in 
the Schenley Farms district. Tech 
managed to obtain that stand prac­
tically for the cost of the lumber, and 
it was easily pransported to Forbes 
Field. A board fence was built around 
the lot, and the field was ready for 
use. That year Tech bad a very suc­
cessful season. In football, Penn was 
brought here on the promise of a 
large guarantee. The attendance was 
large; and in spite of the size of the 
guarantee, the school made money. 
In baseball Tech had probably the 
best team that she has ever had. The 
Pittsburgh Collegians, who were then 
counted among the best, were de­
feated after sixteen innnings of fe. 
pitchers’ duel, in which the total 
strikeouts numbered about thirty- 
eight. The condition in all sports, 
therefore, had taken a turn for the 
better, and the outlook for the future 
was bright.
This outlook was all changed in a 
moment. At the time when Forbes 
Field was rented, the owner had re­
served himself the right to sell if he 
should receive a good offer. He now 
calmly announced that the field had 
been sold to the Pittsburgh Baseball 
Club. The Athletic Association was 
taken rather by surprise, for real es­
tate conditions in Oakland had been 
poor and it had seemed as though 
Tech might retain the field for many 
years. But now the Association was 
confronted by rather a desperate situ­
ation. There seemed no available 
field to be had; so Tech set out to 
make one for herself. It was found 
that ground from the excavating 
about the spot where the first field 
had been could be transfered at com­
paratively small expense to the site 
of the present field, and thus our pres­
ent field was planned. The small ex­
pense involved, however, was too 
great for the resources of the Asso­
ciation, and it became necessary to 
borrow money. Prof. Leeds evolved 
the rather unique plan of borrowing 
f/rom st|Ud)cnts. Elach student lent 
the school as much as he could with­
out interest for as long a time as he 
could. In this way the Association 
was able to meet its expenses.
Meanwhile part of those expenses 
were cut down by bringing the old 
Continued on Page9

---------------------------------------------------

OUheS ©arlatt
SCIENCE STAG DANCE GREAT 
SUCCESS. 
Sophomores Win Prize. Prof. Trinks’ 
Play Presented.
Last Saturday night the Union was 
the scene of a festivity seldom equal­
ed during the school year. The an­
nual Science Stag was even better 
this year than last year, and the 
crowd that was present was alone a 
testimonial to the success of the 
event.
The Plebes with their take-off on 
Shakespeare’s “Merchant of Venice” 
created quite a sensation.
The Juniors depicted with much 
wit and humor the breaking in of a 
green Plebe.
The Sophomores also chose to pick 
on the greenness of the new Plebe. 
Their beanery scene was the best of 
all. The Sophomores won the com­
petition for the best performance of 
the evening.
The Seniors put on a lively stunt 
showing life in the underworld.
Professor Trinks was hailed as a 
second Shakespeare when his playlet 
of a Tech grad hunting a job was 
produced before the students for the 
first time.
Professor Follows was leading man 
with the part of the head of a firm 
producing smokeless, self-feeding 
cleaning furnaces, used as refrigera­
tors during the summer. Doctor Har­
ris took the part of an office wage 
slave while Mr. Van Dyke was the 
Tech graduate.
After the play every one went to 
the beanery, where the ladies of the 
faculty served ice cream, cake and 
coffee.
ENGINEERING COMPETITION.
In the Fall of 1914, the Engineers’ 
Society of Western Pennsylvania 
adopted a plan to interest schools 
having Departments of Engineering 
in a competition involving the solu­
tion of practical engineering prob­
lems. Five institutions entered the 
contest the first year. Three prob­
lems were set by a Committee of the 
Society, one each in Electrical, Me­
chanical and Civil Engineering, for 
which members of the Junior and 
Senior classes in the departments 
were eligible. When the awards were 
announced, Tech had received the fol­
lowing places: Second and third and
four honorable mentions in Mechani­
cal Engineering, third place in Civil 
Engineering and one honorable men­
tion in Electrical Engineering.
In the Spring of 1915, the competi­
tion was again conducted and Tech 
received first, second and third 
awards in Electrical and Mechanical 
Engineering, and third award and one 
honorable mention in Civil Engineer­
ing.
Interest in the competition has been 
growing and this Spring fourteen in­
stitutions have announced their inten­
tion of entering. The Society has also 
added a problem in Metallurgical En­
gineering for solution.
As a part of the educational pro­
gram such a competition cannot be 
too highly recommended as it in­
volves a study of the practical side 
of engineering work together with a 
determination^n'Jnithe proper design 
based upofeuy bee
Pensylv yvean isGm 
ChpCtrof
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs gave 
a highly appreciated concert at the 
North Avenue M. E. Church last Fri­
day night. Though but two rehear­
sals have been held since the Home 
Concert the Clubs were in good shape 
and rendered the entire program with 
unusual spirit.
Plans are now being launched for 
a combined concert with W. & J. to 
be given in Pittsburgh. The date will 
probably be set for April 26. A root­
ing contest is a probable feature.
M. M. C. S. DEMONSTRATION IN 
PHYSICAL TRAINING.
On the evening of April 7 the in­
structors in Physical Training, (Miss 
Elizabeth R. Stoner and Miss Ruth
S. Mason) of the Margaret Morrison 
held the annual demonstration in the 
gymnasium. The chief participants 
were the Sophomores and Plebes. The 
Juniors gave one dance, however, and 
several Drama Students from Design 
also danced.
Honors in Physical Training were 
awarded—the following girls receiv­
ing chevrons: Sophomores, Misses
Freese, Bechtel, Austin, Richter, 
Crawford, Wakefield, Mason. Plebes, 
Misses McCandless, Haller, Fleming, 
Herron, Fire, Hair, Lloyd, Toeburg, 
Stormm, and Monroe.
CLEVERNESS.
Cleverness should prove the condi­
ment, not the meat, of the intellec­
tual feast. Cleverness piques the 
taste, only that, and should simply 
lend flavor to the repast which is to 
satisfy the intellectual appetite. It 
seems sometimes in these latter days 
of merely clever writers, and clever 
talkers, and clever performers, that 
cleverness has become established as 
an end in itself.
But just here lies the great danger. 
The fact that mere cleverness is high­
ly entertaining, that the clever per­
formance catches more quickly super­
ficial applause, is a very dangerous 
menace to efforts directed towards 
more serious ends, where the way is 
long and hard. Under the temptation 
of the easier, quicker way of attain­
ing recognition it is easy to suc­
cumb. The college man must realize 
that cleverness is superficial. The 
man to whom the future will look to 
direct its bigger tasks, to whom it 
will intrust positions of real respon­
sibility, is the man of depth and 
solidity. Let your reading, let your 
studying, let your real efforts be di­
rected toward serious ends. The 
way may not be so pleasant nor en­
tertaining, it may be longer, but at 
the end lies the real rewards.
The editor of the Princeton daily 
hits the nail squarely on the head in 
the following paragraph:
“A college is full of men who are 
clever; it is so much easier than be­
ing thoughtful. But though super­
ficialities pass in undergraduate world 
at a high rate, they will do little in 
most cases to earn bread and butter; 
it is truer now than it was, and in 
the future it will be truer still, the 
reliability and solidity count tremen­
dously. The renaissance of reality is 
at hand.”—Vanderbilt Hustler.
AN EXPERIMENT CONDUCTED 
BY SANITARY ENG. 
STUDENT.
Bacteriological Examination of a 
Drinking Fountain After 
Improper Use.
In a great many communities the 
bubbling fountain has replaced the 
old-time drinking cup which was such 
a familiar object a few years ago. The 
reason for this change is quite appar­
ent—the drinking fountain, when 
properly used, is a great advance and 
is in keeping with many other laud­
able movements for the protection 
of the public health. It behooves us, 
however, to know what we mean 
when we employ the expression 
“properly used” for many such im­
provements when improperly used 
may be a greater menace than the 
old method itself. Many persons use 
a bubbler imporperly—in some cases 
the writer has witnessed persons put 
their mouths on the dome of the 
fountain before turning on the water, 
or bring the lips in contact with this 
surface sometime during the act of 
drinking. In many cases the drinker 
himself is not to blame—he knows 
by experience that just when the bub­
bler is turned on the water shoots 
high up in the air and to protect his 
clothing from getting wet, he fixes 
his lips on the fountain before turn­
ing on the water. In other instances 
he is no more to blame, for the stream 
has been regulated (in order to save 
water) so that he cannot drink with­
out touching his lips to the metal top. 
The stream of course should be two 
or three inches high and the drinker 
should touch his lips only to the top 
of the stream. A bubbling-fountain 
improperly used is more of a menace 
to the public health than is the old- 
time drinking cup, for in the latter 
the drinker had several places from 
which he might choose to drink, while 
in the former only one place is avail­
able. So it must be apparent that the 
chances of drinking from exactly the 
same place as the person before you 
is greatly increased when one uses a 
bubbling fountain instead of a cup.
With these ideas in mind, the writer 
undertook the following experiment 
to determine the length of time dur­
ing which a drinking fountain could 
be considered as potentially danger­
ous after it had been imporperly used. 
It must be remembered that in many 
cases of infectious disease the causa­
tive agent is in the sputum and the 
improper use of a fountain by a per­
son so infected may be the cause of 
spreading the disease. While con­
sidering the possibilities for epidemics 
spread through the use of drinking 
utensils, we might in passing, con­
sider the use of glasses or cups for 
the serving of punch, tea, or other 
beverages at social entertainments. 
The glasses, if any attempt is made 
at washing them, are too frequently 
rinsed in cold water (instead of being 
scrubbed in hot soap suds) and this 
dirty practice cannot be too highly 
deprecated. When the glasses are 
improperly washed, the time elapsing 
between the use of such utensils by 
two individuals is a most important 
factor. If the time is sufficiently long
such natural agencies as temperature, 
light and dessication greatly inhibit 
or even kill the micro-organisms in 
question, but it too frequently hap­
pens at social entertainments that this 
time is so short that resulting infec­
tion may be considered as contact 
infection rather than by fomites. The 
use of the individual drinking cup 
should be encouraged under all con­
ditions.
In the following experiment, the 
writer infected his mouth with Bacil­
lus prodigiosus which is not a patho­
genic (disease producing) organism. 
Following the practice of many care­
less persons, he placed his mouth 
very near the outlet of the fountain 
and allowed the water which had 
come in contact with his mouth to 
flow back on the top. In this way, 
the test organism was communicated 
to the top of the fountain in just the 
same manner as a disease germ would 
get there when the fountain was im­
properly used by an infected indivi­
dual. In order to determine how long 
the test organism could be found upon 
the fountain, the water was turned on 
at intervals (as given below) in order 
to approximate the conditions under 
which the second person would drink. 
While the water was flowing, a germ- 
free platinum needle was introduced 
into the stream and some of the water 
removed. The needle was then in­
oculated into tubes of sterile broth 
(a material in which micro-organisms 
grow readily) and the tubes were sub­
sequently incubated for one week at 
a suitable temperature. Bacillus pro­
digiosus forms a red pigment and at 
the end of the incubation period those 
tubes containing the test organism 
were easily recognized by their red 
color. It was necessary to exclude 
the presence of the red pigment pro­
ducers in the tap water and this was 
done by making control tubes before 
the bubbler was infected. The follow­
ing table gives the results of the ex­
periment—the time as stated is the 
interval elapsing between the time of 
the infection and the taking of the 
sample in the manner described
above:
Time (Minutes) Result
Just after infection...............Positive
2^2 .............................Negative
5  Positive
.............................Positive
10 .............................Negative
15 .............................Positive
20 .............................Positive
25 .............................Negative
30 .............................Positive
Control No. 1 ........................Negative
Control No. 2 ........................Negative
Control No. 3 ........................Negative
The above data demonstrated the 
following points:
1. There were no red pigment pro­
ducers in the water, therefore the 
positive results recorded must be due 
to the organisms which came from 
the mouth of the investigator being 
deposited upon the dome of the bub­
bler and then removed therefrom when 
the water was subsequently turned on.
2. The negative results are easilv 
accounted for by the fact that the 
amount of water taken for examina­
tion at each time interval was leso 
than an ordinary drop.
Continued on Page 8

---------------------------------------------------

4Sh? tartan
®arta«
Published every Wednesday by un­dergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Entered in the post office of Pittsburgh as second class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES. Yearly $1.50. Canada $1.75.5c the copy.
Editor-In-ChiefHarold L. Heilman, '16.Phone Schenley 9022-J. 
Managing: Editor Edgar G. Hamilton, '17.Phone, Schenley 9070.
News Editor A. M. Staehle, '17.Phone, Schenley 9067 
Athletic Editor Charles H. Meredith, '17.
Art EditorA. Brady McSwigan, ’17.
EditorsC. F. Peters, ’16.P. N. Bossart, ’16 Geo. A. Cook, ’18Marguerite Menges, ’16M. J. Wohlgemuth, '16. 
Associate Editors W. M. Swan, ’18. R. E. Vernon, ’18.Beatrice E. Heinrich, ’18.J. R. Hoxworth, 17. Sue Smith, 17.R. E. Dake, ’18.Alex Sharove, ’18
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this papér, the Managing Editor for the make-up.All news items should be in Tartan boxes in the various buildings or in the student mail by Monday noon.The Tartan welcomes all communica­tions of student interest if signed, the signature to be withheld if desired.
Business ManagerPaul W. Emmel, ’17 
Circulation ManagerB. M. Battey, ’18.
Advertising ManagerA. J. Walker, ’18.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager.Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported to the Business Manager at once.
PITTSBURGH, PA., APR. 12, 1916
THE TARTAN RECORD.
Its Early Struggle and Its Standing 
Today.
The “Tartan” was first edited in
1906, and during its days of swaddling 
clothes, was dragged through the 
mire-pits on the road to student favor 
and a permanent foundation. It has 
always existed as a private enter­
prise,—it was originally conceived 
and founded as such. Each member 
of the “Tartan” board has served be­
cause their interests have, to a large 
degree, been centered in the work. 
They have given the paper the best 
their minds and pens could afford. 
Freedom of speech has ever been the 
ideal of the “Tartan.” ’ It exists as 
an organ through which any student 
may speak his mind. No restraint is 
made. The paper as an entity of our 
school life exists for the pleasure and 
benefit of the student body; and it 
is yours, to neglect or value, as your, 
poorer or better, judgment may dic­
tate.
One can scarcely realize how ex­
ceedingly difficult it is to originate a 
new paper, establish it upon a work­
ing basis and meet all situations to 
the satisfaction of the readers. In­
difference, destructive criticism and 
the march of erroneous ideas, are a 
few examples of the approbation usu­
ally heard. Once in a while some 
saint will arise and say, “Well done.” 
The members of the early board came 
to realize that power and authority
could not be begged as alms by an 
impoverished and defeated paper. 
They MUST suceed,—there was no 
alternative. And let us believe that 
it took all the enthusiasm of youth to 
found a paper that should be prompt 
in attack, ready in defense and full 
of resources.
The undernamed men have served 
as Editors-in-Chief, and Business 
Managers respectively since the paper 
was founded in 1906. They have as 
they are today, always been choosen 
because of merit. Personal patron­
age or fraternity connections are 
barred from the board’s considera­
tion. Merit is the key.
Fred E. Foster, and James M. 
Sampson, 1906-’07, F. J. Gaston and 
Joseph Roura, 1908-’09, Lowell Nicols 
and H. J. McCorkle, 1909-’10, Theron 
Wasson, J. H. Lamoree, D. D. Mit­
chell and H. J. McCorkle, 1910-’ll
D. D. Mitchell and D. W. Wait, 1911- 
’12, D. D. Mitchell and G. G. Kelcy,
1912-’13, C. E. Gilson and G. G. Kelcy,
1913-’14, E. S. Rauh and A. H. Cowan.
1914-’15, H. L. Heilman and A. M. 
Staehle and Paul W. Emmel, 1915-’16.
The early issues brought in little 
money. The exchequer was lean 
and the “hole’’ never looked bigger. 
But, have you noticed that in such 
powering circumstances, someone 
usually appears at the criticle mo­
ment; presents his ideas, tells us 
what to do, and we call him a genius. 
The genius came, and talked, and ad­
vised. The Student Activities Fund 
was tapped, and for one year the 
“Tartan” Was given to the students 
free of charge. Every one read the 
“Tartan’’ those days.
Mr. Foster, the founder and first 
Editor-in-chief, must have been an in- 
genius fellow. At that time the 
school was new; not even the faculty 
seemed to know or understand one 
another. Foster decided to meet 
the situation as adequately as pos­
sible. The “Tartan” began to run 
front page cuts of the faculty mem­
bers, with a biographical write-up of 
each instructor. A short sketch of 
their life and education was given 
each week: the desired resulted,—the 
faculty began to take an interest in 
the paper.
The early issues, from 1906-1912. 
were printed in magazine size, most 
of them being 12 page copies. Their 
content was unique. Aside from the 
general school news, a daily class 
schedule occupied a whole page. That 
in itself throws a little side light upon 
the attendance, for, were we to run 
a daily schedule, we *nouId have to 
print a weekly schedule and not a 
weekly newsapaper. It was during 
these days that our old friend the 
slide-rule, came into vogue; and we 
find these earlier copies of the “Tar­
tan” with one or two pages devoted 
to exercises in the use of the slide- 
rule. A cartoon page gave the paper 
a push and go to it that was bound 
to take. The Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie School also ran a section at 
that time.
Each founders day a special issue 
has been arranged. Originally it 
was a color issue, filled with cuts, 
programs and speeches of that days 
exercises. The board is now running 
four feature issues. One issue for
each of the schools. They form a 
review of the school’s history and 
are crisp with interest.
Today the “Tartan” stands in equal 
rank with any of the present day col­
lege and university publications. It 
covers the entire cycle of student ac­
tivities, no phase of school life i& 
too meager for its columns. And al­
though, we may say, that it is not 
thoroughly hardened into the bone of 
security, yet we are proud of it.
HISTORY OF THE THISTLE.
Year Book a Fine Example of “Tech” 
Progressiveness.
While the Thistle is an all-school 
activity, one of those recognized by 
the Student Activities Board, yet its 
history as a part of the Science Is­
sue is appropriate inasmuch as it was 
in the School of Applied Science that 
the first Thistle originated. The 
Thistle is Tech’s oldest publication 
for this will be the eleventh year 
in which one has appeared. The Tar­
tan began the next year, while other 
publications such as The Shilling of 
M. M. C. S., Industries Bagpipe, The 
Alumni Bulletin, and Puppet are of 
considerably later birth.
As a student activity, our year 
book is the most representative of all 
the publications, for it is the only 
one whose board is composed of 
members elected by the students 
themselves. In all others, the Board 
elects its own members. The task 
of putting out a creditable product is 
also greater for each board makes 
only one, the complete personnel 
changing every year; so that the ex­
perience gained one year must be ac- 
qhired again the next. In spite oi 
this the constant improvement of the 
volume shows that each board is able 
to profit by the mistakes of its 
predecessors.
At present the Thistle Board is 
composed of three members from 
each of the four day schools’ Junior 
Class, and two each of the night 
schools from that class which will 
graduate the next year. In addition 
one member who has all the privi­
leges of the Board except a vote is 
elected by each Sophomore Class 
from their number, with the idea that 
the experience he gains may make 
him a valuable man for the next year’s 
board. The office of Editor-in-Chief 
rotates among the three men’s 
schools in the order Science, Design, 
Industries, while M. M. C. S. fur­
nishes each year the Associate Editor- 
in-Chief. These two members are 
elected by their class directly to the 
office, but the other positions includ­
ing the Business Manager are elected 
ber. The only restriction in choos­
ing a Business Manager is that he 
may not be from the same school as 
the Editor-in-Chief.
One notable difference between 
Tech’s annual and those of other col­
leges is the fact that in the Thistle 
it is the graduating class who are 
given the prominence of individual 
pictures and writeups, while practi­
cally all other schools accord this to 
the Junior Class members. Since it 
is the Juniors who put out the vol­
ume, the latter plan seems reason­
able, but Carnegie’s plan secures the
active interest of not one class alone, 
but of the upper two. Incidentally 
practically every man buys at least 
two thistles, as a Junior and as a Sen­
ior, while with the other plan, there 
is much less interest to the Seniors.
From the time of the first Thistle 
in 1906, the book has made wonderful 
advances. Toward this the influence 
of the Design School and more re­
cently the Printing Department has 
exerted great force. The first This­
tle had scarcely two hundred pages, 
while the last had over five hundred, 
and the art work in the 1906 edition 
had not shown the effect of the illus­
trating department of Design. Last 
year the writer was told by the en­
graver that the art work for the This­
tle was as fine as any that ever came 
to his shop.
During these last eleven years the 
appearance of the volume has greatly 
changed. What used to be a thin 
volume considerably wider than long, 
is now a volume weighing over five 
pounds and with a standard 7^4x10^2 
inch page printed on the finest quality 
paper.
Among the dedications may be 
found the names of a few of those 
persons who should be known by 
every true “Techite” as the ideals to 
which they must strive. The first 
edition is laid at the feet of the 
Founder, whose philanthropy is re­
sponsible for the institution we en­
joy today. Others are in honor of 
our director, the genius who could 
translate Mr. Carnegie’s ideas into 
the school we have today, Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie, the founder’s 
mother, Louise Whitfield Carnegie, 
his daughter, “Uncle’’ John A. 
Brashear, whom every Tech man 
loves because he loves them, Judge 
Joseph Buffington, who rendered 
great service at the start of the in­
stitution, and then Secretary Wm. P. 
Field, Dean Charles Russell Hew­
lett, and Dean Clifford Brown Con- 
nelley, whose services have been all 
devoted to Tech from its beginning.
The year book that does not ad­
vance, is going back; and we may 
be sure that the 1916 Thistle which 
will make its debut in the last days 
of this month is going to be the best 
one that ever bore the name of Car­
negie. The cream of all the preced­
ing ones and all the good ideas of 
another board of thirty heads is go­
ing to be presented to an eager stu­
dent body.
COLUMBIA RECOGNIZES AP­
PLIED SCIENCE.
Last year the faculty of the School 
of Applied Science were very much 
gratified to receive a communication 
from Columbia University tendering 
a fellowship to a graduate of the 1915 
class for post graduate work in its 
Engineering Department. As only a 
limited number of such fellowships 
are awarded the School warmly ap­
preciates the recognition and is great­
ly pleased to learn of the continuation 
of the fellowship for another year be­
cause of the excellent work of the 
appointee, Mr. Juîi on Pcrzo.

---------------------------------------------------

(Tartan5
SCIENCE SCHOOL DEPARTMENT SURVEYS
EARLY DEVELOPMENTS AND RECENT HISTORY SKETCHED
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING. 
DEPARTMENT.
Unlike most institutions, the first 
professional course offered here by 
the Chemical Department was Chem­
ical Engineering. We entered the 
educational field at a time when it had 
been demonstrated in the experience 
of other institutions that the training 
of young men for operating work in 
the chemical industries demanded 
more than the usual chemistry, phys­
ics and mathematics.
There are many advantages in start­
ing an institution for technical edu­
cation with funds sufficient for com­
plete equipment and staff at the very 
outset. This was of particular advan­
tage in arranging the subjects re­
quired to make a well rounded course 
in Chemical Engineering. The chem­
ical engineer needs, outside of his 
chemistry, physics, mathematics and 
cultural subjects, a certain amount of 
training in the fields of mechanical, 
electrical and to some extent civil 
engineering. Since his work is al­
ways to be in the field of operation, 
as far as mechanical and electrical ap­
paratus is concerned, it is evident that 
it would be a waste of time for him 
to go into the stud\- of such apparatus 
to the extent demanded for the mech­
anical or the electrical engineering 
student, who must consider the de­
tails of design as well as operation.'
Hence, the scheduling of minor 
courses in the foregoing subjects in 
other departments for the chemical 
engineering course, and the co-opera­
tion on the part of these departments 
in developing such courses from the 
very beginning of the institution’s 
history has injected an element of 
strength into the chemical engineer­
ing course at Carnegie, which is prob­
ably not surpassed in any other in­
stitution in the country.
In the early years of the school, 
the number of students electing 
chemical engineering was low. This 
was lergely because there was not at 
that time the demand in the immedi­
ate district for men with such a train­
ing. However, even before the out­
break of the European war, chemical 
manufacture and other manufactures 
based on chemical reactions had be­
gun to develop, so that we have had 
a steady increase in the number of 
electors.
Counting the present Senior class 
(12), we have graduated fifty-one stu­
dents from the chemical engineering 
course. With the exception of three 
or possibly four, these graduates are 
all engaged in chemical work, as 
chemists, chemical engineers, chemi­
cal salesmen, chemical foremen, su­
perintendents, etc. In the night school 
only three men have graduated, and 
two of these are in chemical work.
CIVIL AND SANITARY 
ENGINEERING.
The first ten years of the history 
of the Civil Engineering Department 
have naturally been marked by more
or less radical changes in ideals and 
practice.
Designated first in the catalogue 
1908-’09, as the Department of Civil 
Engineering practice, emphasis was 
laid especially upon the application 
of principles to Civil Engineering 
work.
In later years the scope of the 
work give in the Department has not 
only expanded, but the primary aim 
in the class room and laboratory is 
to teach the important principles of 
the underlying branches of the pro­
fession introducing the applications to 
illustrate these principles but subor­
dinating practice to theory.
Under Professor F. E. Foss, first 
designated as head of the Department 
in the 1908-09 catalogue, surveying 
and railroad work occupied a promi­
nent place in the. curriculum. Sur­
veying was given to all Plebe stu­
dents in the Science School, until 
1910.
At present all field work is given 
at Camp Louise Carnegie during the 
summer following the Sophomore 
year and is taken by all Science stu­
dents except those in the Department 
of Chemical Engineering.
Instruction in Structural shop me­
thods and practice, involving the use 
of tools, was at first a part of the 
course of instruction in Structures 
but this laboratory work was later 
given up.
The materials Testing laboratory, 
originally under the direction of the 
Professor of Mechanical Engineer­
ing, later passed to the Professor of 
Mechanics and finally six years ago 
was designated as a part of the Civil 
Engineering Department. As re­
gards equipment and number of stu­
dents in attendance. This laboratory 
is the most important single branch 
of the Civil Department. The addi­
tion in the near future of a 400,000 
lb. Olsen testing machine, will be of 
great assistance not only for regular 
instruction but more especially for 
research work.
In order to supplement the class 
work in Hydraulics a small hydraulic 
laboratory was equipped three years 
ago and so far as the limited space at 
our command will permit, the appara­
tus installed affords the student an 
opportunity to verify the laws and 
constants about which instruction is 
given in the class room.. The plans 
for expansion in the future, includes 
a large steel canal which will broaden 
the scope of the undergraduate and 
research work which may be carried 
on in this laboratory.
Because of the location of the In­
stitute it has in recent years, be­
come more and more difficult to give 
field instruction in surveying and rail­
road work. Our students are not per­
mitted to use the Schenley Park for 
field exercises so that farm property 
at Glencairn gave us a much needed 
opportunity to develop the courses 
involving field operations.
Beginning in a modest way in 1912, 
our work at Camp Louise Carnegie 
has grown so rapidly that in June and
September, 1916, two periods of camp 
instruction will be given, the first 
one for Civil and Mining Engineers 
especially, but night students and stu­
dents in courses other than Civil En­
gineering whose work makes attend­
ance in September impossible, will be 
taken in June. All other students 
in surveying will attend camp in Sep­
tember.
Eight years ago a course in Sani­
tary Engineering was inaugurated. 
The fundamental idea of this course 
is to give a thorough grounding in 
the principles of Civil Engineering, 
but instead of carrying the work in 
certain of the branches, as railroad 
and structures to an advanced point, 
the time is devoted to Chemistry, 
Biology and Bacteriology. When the 
student has acquired a good working 
knowledge of these sciences, he then 
takes up the question of water puri­
fication, sewage disposal, garbage col­
lection and disposal, street cleaning 
and other importnat phases of pub­
lic health and sanitation. Few stu­
dents realize the importance of this 
work in Sanitary Engineering and 
the great and varied opportunities it 
offers for useful service and rapid 
advancement as a result of the broad 
training afforded by the course.
COMMERCIAL ENGINEERING 
DEPARTMENT.
The Commercial Engineering De­
partment is the youngest of the De­
partments of the School of Applied 
Science. It was started in the fall 
of the year 1911. It enrolled in it* 
day classes in the first year six Jun­
iors and fifteen Sophomores. Since 
that time it has had a modest growth 
in numbers, some twenty-five Plebes 
entering the course at the end of 
last year.
The first night class was admitted 
in 1913. The night course is open 
only to graduates of this school or 
of some other institution of approved 
standing. The work in the night 
school is given the rank of graduate 
work.
The idea of the course is to give a 
combination of technical and com­
mercial training which will fit a man 
especially for executive positions in 
connection with engineering work. 
Some of these positions are in the 
nature of commercial work, others 
are efficiency jobs in connection with 
shop management. In the early days of 
the department the attempt was made 
to offer special technical work in 
some one department as Mechanical, 
Chemical or the like, and commercial 
and production work. This was the 
option system. Experience show­
ed that this policy resulted in an ex­
cessive subdivision of the students 
of the department, and in excessive 
cost of instruction. Last year the 
option plan was abandoned. Now 
all students take the same course, the 
technical work being confined largely 
to the mechanical and electrical de­
partments. In the second semester 
of the Senior year is offered the one 
and only option, the choice between 
a certain amount of Production work 
or a certain amount of Commercial 
work. It is believed that this divi­
sion corresponds more closely with
the difference between the production 
and the commercial fields of employ­
ment.
The nature of the work for which 
the department prepares may be 
learned from an examination of the 
kinds of positions held by the gradu­
ates of the day school. They are en­
rolled with various concerns in the 
efficiency, the advertising, the esti­
mating, the selling and the auditing 
departments, while one represents the 
Standard Oil Co. in India, and an­
other is preparing to go to South 
America in the employ of the Na­
tional City Bank. Our night school 
graduates occupy various positions of 
responsibility in commercial and pro­
duction work at home and abroad.
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING.
It is not always easy to remember 
dates, but the most vital we cannot 
forget, we were born about Septem­
ber, 1905. It happened down in the 
Germania Bank Building, No. 313 
Sixth avenue, where Director Hamer- 
schlag had his offices during the con­
struction period of the Applied Indus­
tries buildings. And it was in the In­
dustries Buildings that the Charter 
Class began work in October, 1906.
In those days we did not have the 
splendid equipment found in our pres­
ent laboratories, but we had the ma­
terial—fine fellows they were—a class 
that has not yet been excelled. It is 
a real pleasure to think of the “good 
old times” and recall men like J. L. 
Hunt, who was the first president of 
the charter class and who ever since 
graduating has been with the Car­
negie Steel Co. And then R. D. Par­
sons, who is with the Diamond Rub­
ber Co., and W. W. Slocum, with the 
Johns-Manville Co., of this city. And 
a lot of other fine fellows, too numer­
ous to mention. What a pleasure it 
would be to see them all back here 
at some reunion!
But the stars of the Electrical De­
partment were not all in the Charter 
Class. We like to remember such 
men as C. E. Wilson, ’09, now with 
the Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co. 
Alan Bright, ’11, with Macbeth-Evans 
and J. R. Cosgrove, with the Pitts­
burgh Railways Co. And then there 
is . W. Gottfried, of the Night School, 
’10, who is a contracting engineer in 
the City of Mexico. And though the 
honor roll does not end here, an 
imaginary sigh from the Tartan Edi­
tor bids us halt.
In the fall of 1908 the department 
was moved to the Science Building 
in the quarters now occupied by Prof. 
Follows. And during the summer of
1913 we moved into our permanent 
quarters in Machinery Hall. The 
space is ample for many years to 
come. The laboratories are probably 
as fine, if not finer than any of their 
kind in the country and the equip­
ment is the best that money can buy. 
Some of the notable features, besides 
the General Laboratory, are the High- 
Tension Laboratory, equipped with 
a 100-K.W. 200,000-volt 60-cycle trans­
former and auxiliary apparatus. The 
Electrical Transportation Section,
Continued on Page 6

---------------------------------------------------

fiQIartatt
DEPARTMENT SURVEYS
Continued from Page 5 
with its railway equipment and the 
Radio Station for experimental and 
instructional use.
The changes that have taken place 
in the Staff of the Electrical Depart­
ment are indicated in the following:
1905-06, A. J. Wurts.
1906-07, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work.
1907-08, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
F. M. Denton.
1908-09, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
F. M. Denton, W. E. Reed, S. M. 
Lucas.
1909-10, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
F. M. Denton, W. E. Reed, W. P. 
Hurley.
1910-11, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
B. C. Dennison, H. Riddervold, C. E. 
Putnam.
1911-12, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
B. C. Dennison, A. B. Holcomb, J. 
H. Cannon.
1912-13, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
B. C. Dennison, A. B. Holcomb, J. 
H. Cannon.
1913-14, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
B. C. Dennison, A. B. Holcomb, J. 
H. Cannon.
1914-15, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
B. C. Dennison, A. B. Holcomb, A. F. 
Van Dyck.
1915-16, A. J. Wurts, W. R. Work, 
B. C. Dennison, A. B. Holcomb, A. F. 
Van Dyck.
Mr. Libot, the mechanician, has 
been with us since 1906.
A more congenial, earnest and cap­
able set of men than the present Staff 
would be difficult to find and let us 
trust they may long remain, not only 
as teachers of Electrical Engineering 
but as an uplifting influence among 
the students of Carnegie Tech.
Ninety-seven Day and eighteen 
Night students have graduated from 
the Department of Electrical Engi­
neering. These men are now out do­
ing their share of the world’s work, 
carrying the name and fame of Car­
negie Tech across the seas and over 
the mountains. May they look back 
to their Alma Mater with something 
of that pleasure and pride with which 
their friends in the Electrical Depart­
ment look out to them, and may we 
all work together to uphold the stan­
dards of this institution and to honor 
the name of our benefactor and foun­
der, Andrew Carnegie.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
The department of Mechanical En­
gineering started on the first day of 
“Carnegie Tech” with a strength of 
materials class room in what is now 
the club room in the Industries build­
ing, near the blacksmith shop. Af­
ter three weeks it was moved into 
what is now the sheet metal shop in 
the Industries building. This shop 
then was the combined “Materials 
and Mechanical Laboratory” for two 
years; in it and in the class room 
across the hall the Mechanical En­
gineering department worked out its 
destiny. In the first year the depart­
ment consisted of Prof. Trinks and 
Mr. O. Bear. Early in the second 
year Professor J. C. Sproull joined 
the faculty and late in the second year 
Mr. Geist came into the department.
Towards the end of the second year 
an “L” shaped corner of Machinery 
all was built and was set aside for 
the use of the Mechanical Depart­
ment and of the Fuel Analysis de­
partment of the Bureau of Mines. 
This was the beginning of the suc­
cessful efforts to permanently locate 
the Bureau of Mines in Pittsburgh. 
During the summer 1907 the Mechan­
ical Department was moved, while 
the materials laboratory remained in 
the old location. Professor Trinks at 
that time asked to be relieved of the 
work in connection with strength of 
materials, so as to devote all of his 
time to the mechanical department. 
Mr. Bear had in the second year left 
the schools. His place was taken 
partly by Mr. Setz who taught ad­
vanced prime movers and partly by 
Mr. C. Jones, who took charge of 
the mechanical engineering of steel 
works. In those days all of the en­
gineering courses were of three years 
duration, and the third year saw about 
twenty-five mechanical seniors. This 
is a larger number of seniors than 
the department ever had later on, but 
in the early days scholarship require­
ments were “liberal” enough to allow 
almost all of those who entered to 
become seniors. The “weeding out” 
process of to-day had not yet been 
introduced.
Some of the machinery put down 
in the mechanical laboratory in 1906 
is still in the same place, and that 
is more than can be said of the ma­
chinery of any other department. 
Originally all of the ground floor of 
Machinery Hall was intended to be 
Mechanical Laboratory, and some of 
the machinery was installed with that 
end in view, but "something always . 
happens.” In the summer of 1908, 
a steam power plant was planned for 
the schools. It was to be erected 
in the hollow just below Machinery 
Hall and near the B. & O. tracks. 
But the B. & O. objected. That rail­
road has filed a bond against the 
property in question, and the original 
very beautiful plans of the architect 
had to be abandoned. Instead, the 
present power plant was built in its 
present location, to a certain extent 
spoiling the plans for a “grand” me­
chanical laboratory. A temporary | 
boiler house was built, and the equip- \ 
ment of boiler house and engine room 
was made available for studies of the 
mechanical department.
The year 1910-’ll saw the first 
group of “night-seniors.” They were 
indeed a memorable group of picked 
men who had been waiting for such 
an opportunity as the Carnegie Tech 
night school offered. In 1910 Mr. 
Setz left us. He now is chief me­
chanical engineer of the Fulton Iron 
Works, St. Louis, (with about twice 
the salary of a professor). His place 
was taken by Mr. Taylor, a steam tur­
bine enthusiast. In the same year the 
whole mechanical faculty had a nar­
row escape. The window of the of­
fice was blown in by a storm and 
smashed tables, chairs, desks, etc. 
Fortunately, the instructors saw the 
storm coming, and since it was near 
quitting time, hurried to get home 
before the shower.
Continued on Page 7
HAMILTON’S
Pianos and Player Pianos
The magnificent Mason & Hamlin, the 
A. B. Chase, the Fischer, the Kingsburg, and 
other grand and upright pianos.
COROLA AND EUPHONA INNER PLAYERS
Uprights—5175 up 
Grands—5445 up 
Players—5350 up
S. HAMILTON CO.
815-817 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh 
VICTOR EDISON COLUMBIA TALKING MACHINES
Prices
New Pianos
1660*9X6
Fifty Six Years of Fair Dealing
STOEBENER’S
The Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave., E. E. 
6222 Frankstown Ave., E. E.
TAKE ELEVATOR—SAVE $10.00
Full Dress and 
Tuxedo Suits 
$15 & $20. 
For Hire 
$2.50Just 2 Prices2 Just Prices
Entire Second 
Floor 
241 Fifth 
Avenue 
Above 
Walk-Over 
Shoe Store.
There are no $15 & $20 clothes in this store. You 11 get actual $25 & 
$30 values and not simply clothes which look like $25 & $30 Values. 
We cut Qround Floor Rent and other big expense out of your cost. 
THAT’S WHY YOU SAVE $10. MAURICE GOLDMAN, Prop.
fO_ud gVfuadup7 
BARBER SHOP AND POOL ROOM
NEW TABLES 
AND NEW MANAGEMENT
Herman H. Adam
GROCER
405 S. DITHRIDGE ST.
OCH’S
ORE FORBEFOR EASTER
THE BEST STOREFORBES <£ A TWOOD
New Shifts $1.00 Each 
New Neckwear 50c Each
New Hosiery, New Underwear

---------------------------------------------------

QJfje tartanr
DEPARTMENT SURVEYS
Continued from Page 6
Removal of the Bureau of Mines to 
the Arsenal about 1911, freed the sub­
basement for a sophomore and junior 
laboratory of the mechanical depart­
ment. In 1912, Mr. Taylor left us; 
his place was filled by Mr. Maclntire.
Difficult conditions arose in the 
year 1912-1913. Machinery Hall was 
to be completed, and the mechanical 
department had to use class rooms 
and drawing rooms in the Industries 
building, while its office and labora­
tories were maintained in Machinery 
Hall under great difficulties. The 
only heater in the combined office 
and store room was an old rheostat 
borrowed from the electrical depart­
ment; and it made “fire works” quite 
often. It must have known that it 
was in the wrong department. To 
get a book out of the book case, re­
quired the services of a steeplejack. 
Instruction naturally suffered some­
what, but we managed to get along. 
In 1912 Mr. Jones resigned and Mr. 
Coryell took hold of the steel works 
course. The department was “re-en­
forced” by a granite assistant, who 
has to be assistant to everybody and 
serves for one year only.
In the fall of 1913, Machinery Hall 
was finished sufficiently to have the 
department go back to it with very 
much enlarged quarters. Machinery 
Hall has probably given more thought 
by the architects than any of the 
previous buildings, because the build­
ing was designed with a definite pur­
pose in view. In the ¡summer of 1913, 
Mr. Maclntire resigned and Mr. Es­
tep joined the faculty.
The rapid changes in the mechan­
ical faculty were apparently caused 
by improper arrangement of the 
work. The option and advanced work 
required many years of practical ex­
perience and this the younger in­
structors cannot possess. Conse­
quently Professor Trinks took charge 
of the advanced prime mover design 
in 1912. Likewise it became neces­
sary for him to take charge of the 
course in steel woi*k engineering in 
1914, after Mr. Coryell had resigned. 
In 1914 Mr. Blaisdell became a mem­
ber of the department and Prof. 
Sproull was given the teaching of all 
general prime mover and automobile, 
work. From that tinw on the depart- . 
ment has gained a certain stability, 
and the period of rapid evolution ap­
pears to have passed. All news steps 
are taken very deliberately. The de­
partment has graduated more stu­
dents than any other department in 
the science school. It is particularly 
strong in the night work; in the last 
year from 40 to 50 per cent of the 
graduating night students were mem­
bers of the Mechanical department.
METALLURGICAL AND MINING 
ENGINEERING.
Metallurgy and mining are neces­
sarily very closely connected because 
of the dependence of one upon the 
other. Metallurgy requires mining 
operations to furnish the required 
materials such as ores, fuels, and flux­
es, which are in turn made valuable by
metallurgical processes. That a de­
partment giving itstruction in these 
two subjects should have its place in 
every technical school is realized fully 
when it is considered that metallur­
gical and mining practice contributes 
so much to the world. Especially is 
this true of our school since it is lo­
cated in the largest iron and steel pro­
ducing section of the world.
Prof. Crabtree has been at the head 
of such a department here since the 
establishment of our school. Very 
few changes have taken place in the 
group of instructors, which at pres­
ent include besides Prof. Crabtree, 
Prof. Griswold, Assistant Professor 
of Mining Engineering, Prof.- McIn­
tosh, Assistant Professor of Metal­
lurgy, and Dr. Fettke, Instructor in 
Geology.
Practically all of our professors are 
doing work aside from their regular 
duties in School, but this is particu­
larly true of the metallurgical depart­
ment. Prof. Crabtree, for example, 
has been experimenting upon the use 
of natural gas as a fuel in the cupola 
in the place of coke. These experi­
ments have been made for the Jones
& Laughlin Co., and have not yet 
been made public. Prof. McIntosh 
has been working with alloys of iron, 
maganese and silicon. Prof. Gris­
wold recently headefl an Investigation 
of the oil and gas fields of Oklahoma. 
Dr. Fettke is preparing a bulletin 
for the Pennsylvania Geological Sur­
vey on the glass sand resources of the 
state, and upon the manufacture of 
glass.
There are present six laboratories 
devoted to the work of the depart­
ment:
1. The laboratory for general 
metallurgical work and assaying, 
which are fully equipped.
2. The ore dressing laboratory 
equipped with the various types of 
ore dressing machines.
3. The metallurgical laboratory 
with equipment necessary for study­
ing alloys and structure of metals.
4. A laboratory devoted entirely 
to instruments of precision used in 
metallurgical work.
5. The mineralogy and geology 
laboratory with equipment for deter­
minative geology, lithology and 
petrography.
6. The electrometallurgy laboratory 
equipped with a 75 K. V. A. variable 
voltage transformer switchboard for 
both alternating and direct current, 
two arc and one induction furnace, a 
small cupola, facilities for making and 
handling steel up to 600 pound heats, 
and provisions for building experi­
mental electrical furnaces.
The students of the department 
may take mining engineering or spec­
ialize in ferrous, non-ferrous, or 
electro'-metallurgy. > iVery recently 
they have been granted the privilege 
of becoming members of the Affiliated 
fBtudent Society of the American In­
stitute of Mining Engineering.
THE SCIENCE COURSE.
The Science Course which Plebes 
are able to elect this year for the first 
time, includes options which enable 
the student to fit himself for research 
Continued on Page 8
P. LUDEBULHL & iON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstown
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair
FOOTPRINTS LEAD TO DETECTION
The standing of a man is as often as not told 
by his footwear—if he is careless of that, he s apt 
to be negligent of more important things. If you 
will buy your shoes here, you may be certain of 
looking all right, feeling all right ar<d impressing 
other* with the fact that you are “all right.” 
Our Shoes are built by some of the most repre­
sentative Shoe Manufacturers in the world.
Special Men’s Dept.
’TW1XT CUP AND LIP
that awful slip is rendered harmless by our 
most efficacious system of dry-cleaning. We 
can render unto you like new the soiled, 
disfigured, discolored and stained garments 
of yesterday.
The cost is small for the service.
J. E. T. SHUMAN
391 1 Forbes Street
Schenley 875
“A NATIONAL INSTITUTION”
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
BELLEFIELD AVENUEFIFTH AVENUE
SCHENLEY FARMS
Schenley Farms with its restrictions and wide, 
well lighted streets, 
its nearness to all parts of the City, 
make it the ideal home location.
We build and finance for you.
oNm ­yNmHvmF WlcPn C.P“lHF
1414 Farmers Bank Bldg., CityPhone Grant 3
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
6033 BROAD ST., E. E.
BATTERY
SERVICE
ALL MAKES OF BATTERIES 
REPAIRED AND RECHARGED
WEBER EXPRESS B«"ph»"* 
and STORAGE CO. SCHE"LEY
Moving, Packing and Storing of F urniture 
and Pianos. General Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depots
4616-18-20 HENRY ST., PITTSBURGH
Modern Dances
CLASSES AND PRIVATE
R. E. JACQUES
(All CASTLE’S Work) 
Forbes and Craig Sts., Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

8Stye Glaríatt
“THE BEST AMERICAN MAKE’
an‘DoncasterARROW COLLAR2 for 25cduett, Peabody & Co., Inc., Makers
THE CHURCH OF THE 
ASCENSION
ELLSWORTH AVENUE 
AND NEVILLE STREET 
24C ORLAA N4DOEU 4PHIYS
Sunday Services 1 1:00 A. M., 7:45 P. M. 
Splendid Music, Short Sermons
Expert Cleaning 
and Pressing
W.O.BRECKON
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Streets 
Phones 160—3161 Schenley 
Special Prices to Tech Students
BRACE BROS.
LAUNDRY
TRENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone. Wilkins 23
DEPARTMENT SURVEYS
Continued from Page 7 
or for teaching in Physics or Chemis­
try.
There have been many requests foi 
graduates possessing more training 
in science than can be included in 
an engineering course. Good teachers 
are constantly in demand for the 
Science courses of our secondary 
schools. To prepare such teachers 
there is now offered a five year course 
in which the student may choose 
either Physics or Chemistry for his 
major subject. During the Post- 
Senior year of this course, much of 
the work will be directed by the De­
partment of Psychology.
In addition to the demand for 
teachers, there is a call for men to 
fill postions in Industrial Research. 
Some years ago, the steel industry 
was almost revolutionized when 
chemists were first regularly employ­
ed. Today, many of our large cor­
porations are starting research labora­
tories in which their own physicists 
and chemists are solving the difficul­
ties peculiar to the special processes 
involved. Very great advances have 
already resulted from this more in­
timate connection between science 
and the industries, for example in the 
production of artificial indigo by th«1 
research chemist and the gas filled 
tungsten lamp by the research physi­
cist.
For the man who prefers pure re­
search without teaching or commer­
cial connection, there is a wide field 
of activity in the numerous scientific 
bureaus and laboratories of our gov­
ernment service.
To prepare students for such re­
search positions is the object of the 
new four year course in Science in 
which the student chooses either Phy­
sics or Chemistry as his major sub­
ject.
Students contemplating electing the 
Science Course should give special 
attention to mathematics, physics and 
chemistry.
S
ERVING Banquets and 
Parties is a feature quite 
apart from the general run 
of hotel business. We have 
specialized in this business so 
long, and are so thoroughly 
equipped, you are sure of satis­
faction.
Monongahela House
J. B. KELLEY, Manager 
Smith field and Water Sts., Pittsburgh
“TECH” BRINGS U. S. GEOLOGI­
CAL SURVEY STATION TO 
PITTSBURGH.
EXPERIMENT CONDUCTED
Continued from Page 3
3. From the above results I con­
clude that a bubbling fountain when 
used improperly may remain a source 
of danger for at least thirty minutes 
after such use. As the observations 
were not continued after one-half 
hour, it is impossible to state just 
how long the test organisms could be 
recovered.
The experiment emphasizes the fact 
that everyone should (exercise the 
greatest care in using a bubbling 
fountain, for through its improper use 
it may become a real danger to the 
health of other individuals. It must 
be apparent that from a strictly sani­
tary viewpoint the continuous type 
of bubbler is to be preferred to the 
intermittent type, for in he former 
the chances for the removal of saliva 
and micro-organisms in a given time 
is much greater.
D. V. SHERBAN, 
Sanitary Engineering Course, 
(1918.)
The first Pittsburgh station of the 
U. S. Geological Survey was estab­
lished in 1907 in the basement of Ma­
chinery Hall at Tech. Those tem­
porary quarters were provided by the 
school in the hope that Pittsburgh 
would see the value of the station and 
would do something to persuade the 
Government to locate it in the city 
permanently. At that time several 
other cities were rrying to wrest the 
station from Pittsburgh; among the 
most determined of these was Chi­
cago, where the Chamber of Com­
merce offered the Government a site 
for the plant. In housing the station, 
therefore, “Tech” was rendering to 
the industrial interests of the city an 
extraordinary service, the results of 
which can only be measured by the 
subsequent work of the survey in this 
city, particularly the erection of the 
new Bureau of Mines Building just 
across the valley from our campus.
When the station was established 
at Tech, the staff consisted of seven 
investigators with Dr. J. A. Holmes, 
of the Ohio State University, at the 
head. Part of the work was con­
cerned with the investigation of fuels, 
and especially of the different grades 
of coal mined in this section. An­
other investigation was in regard to 
the manufacture of coke and the salv­
age of valuable by-products. Still an­
other part of the work was the testing 
of structural materials, and the analy­
sis of all minerals which were sub­
mitted to the survey. This work was 
naturally of *he utmost importance 
to every coa1 mining company, to 
every steel works, and in fact to every 
concern whicn is at all connected with 
minerals in the Pittsburgh district.
The combined musical club of 
Northwestern University will give a 
series of concerts in Central America 
this year. This will be the first tour 
of Central America by college men in 
real clubs.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
“The Oakland Bank”
Capital $200,000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $2,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
GREGSON’S
TEA ROOM AND CAKE SHOP
LUNCHEON 
i2 to 2 P. M. 
AFTERNOON TEA 
3 to 5 P. M.
Phone 2052 Hiland 5909 Penn Av.
Bell Phone 
4180 CourtP. & A. Phone 
1751 Pitt
If you want to RENT the best 
FULL DRESS SUITS—up to
date in style—call the
PITTSBURGH
DRESS SUIT CO.
440 Wood Street
Second Floor
FOR RENT: Full Dress, Tux­
edos, Princed Alberts, Cutaways, 
Silk Hats. All new stock.
PIANOS and ORGANS SHEET MUSIC CUT RATE
H. A. BECKER
MUSIC HOUSE
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
601 OHIO ST., CORNER OF MIDDLE, N. S.
Bell Phone Cedar 2797 P. & A. 952-A
PHONOGRAPHS ARTISTIC REPAIRING
Boxing has been officially added to 
Harvard sports, and candidates for it 
have already started to report among 
them are several football men. There 
have been three boxing instructors ap­
pointed to handle the men.

---------------------------------------------------

(Th? ® art an9
DEAN LEETE REVIEWS
Continued from Page 1 
to the Science Buildings then just 
finished. In 1913 Machinery Hall 
was completed, providing permanent 
quarters for the Departments of Elec­
trical and Mechanical Engineering. In 
addition to these general moves in­
volving the School as a whole there 
have also been necessary many shifts 
of individual departments and instruc­
tors by reason of the rapid growth in 
enrollment and the expansion of the 
curriculum. Each September one had 
to relocate the various teachers and 
departments, and so kaliedoscopic 
were the changes that the sign paint­
er whose business it was to letter 
the doors of the various classrooms 
and laboratories soon gave up his job 
in disgust. Now we have again out­
grown our quarters and are shortly 
to acquire another building—a Head 
House for the group, in which will be 
located, permanently we hope, in ad­
dition to the Dean’s offices, the De­
partments of Machine Design, Mathe­
matics and Commercial Engineering.
These additions to the buildings 
have been made necessary not only 
by reason of enlarged enrollment, but 
also to provide room for the many ad­
ditions to our equipment which have 
been accumulated during the past ten 
years. There has been practically no 
time since the opening of the School 
when our departments have not been 
engaged in the purchase and installa­
tion of apparatus and machinery. The 
students of our first classes is always 
particularly impressed by this fea­
ture of our growth. We must still 
add much equipment if we are to keep 
pace with modern industrial practice, 
but the bulk of the material assets 
necessary for a thorough engineering 
training are already available.
The growth of the School has not 
been due to the expansion of its work 
into a variety of courses of study. In­
deed, the only additions to the five 
standard courses offered at the open­
ing of the School have been: The
courses in Mining Engineering and in 
Sanitary Engineering offered first in 
1909, the course in Commercial En­
gineering in 1910 and t'he courses in 
Science and for the training of Sci­
ence teachers offered this year for 
the first time. It must not be in­
ferred, however, that our growth has 
not been rapid; as a matter of fact it 
has been so rapid that it has taxed 
the powers of the administration and 
faculty to keep pace with it. Starting 
with a day course of three years it 
was soon found that the amount of 
ground to be covered and the effi­
cient sequence of studies required 
four years of exacting study and 
training, and in 1908 the schedule was 
revised in conformity with this opin­
ion. Since that time there has been 
frequent revision of all courses based 
upon our own experience combined 
with a careful study of the practice 
followed at other engineering insti­
tutions. This has affected the con­
tent of our courses, the method? of 
instruction, the forms of administra­
tion. and, indeed, all the conditions 
that determine the efficiency and at­
tractiveness of our courses of study.
The net result has been a tendency 
toward standardization with estab­
lished engineering instruction, but 
with the retention of certain charac­
teristic and distinguishing features 
which have stood the test of actual 
practice and the addition of other 
new factors and methods which have 
been developed by our own investiga­
tions. The underlying idea of many 
of these changes and developments 
might be characterized as an effort 
to emphasize the value of thorough 
training in the fundamental sciences, 
and to distinguish what is genuine 
technical education from mere train­
ing for a job.
It is difficult in so brief an ar­
ticle to give an adequate summary 
of the history of the School of Ap­
plied Science; only the general trend 
of events can be noted. Moreover, 
space is lacking for a discussion of 
our development of certain intangible 
factors which mean much to the life 
of the school—of the spirit that has 
been developed and the standard of 
scholarship that has been maintained. 
Only the material growth can here be 
outlined. Much has been accomp­
lished and better still the future holds 
out the promise of more to be done, 
for neither the Director nor the fac­
ulty has as yet developed that unfor­
tunate state of mind which leads them 
to rest content upon past accomplish­
ment. It appears, therefore, that the 
student of today will find some fur­
ther changes when he returns to the 
School ten years hence.
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
Continued from Page 2 
stand from Forbes Field. The design 
of the stand was improved by raising 
the seats so that one might be able 
to see over the head of the one in 
front of him. Because of a mistake 
on the ball club’s part, the Associa­
tion was able to obtain the fence, 
which surrounded Forbes Field, for 
the cost of carrying it away. (That 
is the only time on record that the 
Pittsburgh Ball Club gave away some­
thing for nothing.)
Of course, the Association occa­
sionally made mistakes. But in the 
main, affairs were very successful and 
finally all the money which had been 
borrowed from the students was paid 
back. The organization of the Asso­
ciation was continually being im­
proved, the number of members on 
the Board of Control was decreased, 
better coaches were obtained by the 
school, and last year the office of 
Graduate Manager was introduced.
Under the guidance of the Associa­
tion our athletics have grown and 
prospered and the fair play policy of 
the organization has won a splendid 
reputation for “Tech” in the field of 
athletics.
The University of Wisconsin is to 
have a four-story physics building 
Political economy and commerce 
courses will also be held there.
The Great American Smoke
Fall in line with hundreds of thousands of red- 
blooded smokers of the good old U. S. A. Smoke 
the cigarette tobacco that’s been an American insti­
tution for three generations—“Bull” Durham. The 
rich, relishy, star-spangled taste of “Bull” Durham 
puts the national spirit of get-up-and-hustle into your 
hand-rolled cigarette. “Bull” Durham is the freshest, 
snappiest, liveliest of smokes.
«1GENUINE*
Ask for^FREEpackage of‘'paper»”
with each 5c tack
Bull TecNlP
SMOKING TOBACCO
“Roll your own” with “Bull” Durham and you’ll 
find a far greater satisfaction in smoking your ciga­
rette than you ever did before.
Made of the richest, mild­
est leaf grown, “Bull” Durham 
has a delightful mellow-sweet 
flavor found in no other tobacco.
Men who never srr ked 
cigarettes before are now “roll­
ing their own* with “Bull”
Durham.
| .^1 117 TP* An Illustrated Book­
ie iX ¦ «P. let, showing correct * 111 ** A way to “Roll Your 
Own’’ Cigarettes, and a package of 
cigarette papers, will both be mailed, 
free, to any address in U.S. on request.
Address‘'Bull” Durham, Durham, N.C.
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
n n i in 111 ii111 niiihim mrrr11mini iiiiii.iip aidingJtfile tic Goods
M 11ITTT1111 ED
PRICE QUALITY BEAUTY
FLOWERS
E. C. LUDWIG FLORAL CO.
710 EAST DIAMOND ST 
“OPPOSITE CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL"
NORTHSIDE PITTSBURGH
For EATS Come to US
We want to furnish the Baked Goods 
for your Frat. May we?
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the Center of the IROQUOIS BLOCK, Oakland
A regular 35c Hair Cut for 25c
Tech Barber Shop
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor 
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS
3 lowrra
For All
Occasions
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland Ave.
Enterprise Cleaning Company
CLEANERS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work in Ladies’, Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
401 EAST END TRUST BLDG . PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland: Works 4912 Hilan
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

---------------------------------------------------

10(Tartan
clothes—easter b. & b.
Not a bit too soon to be thinking about the Easter Clothes, and 
whether it be for man or miss this establishment is amply provided 
with a splendid showing of the newest fashions. Particularly choice 
in the assortment of $25.00 Suits for men, including Stein Bloch, 
Society Brand, Brokaw Bros, in all the advertised models. There 
seems to be a dash to the tailoring of the suits—which at once 
puts them above the average—a fact you will at once recognize if 
you investigate.
vZ, BOGGS & BUHL IZ,
Omees } Bryant & s, C|air
Men’s Sack Suits cleaned, Old Price $ 
Boys’ Sack Suits cleaned, Old Price $ Women’s Two-Piece Cloth
Suits Cleaned, Old Price $
OSWALD WERNER 8c
REDUCED PRICES Telephone» j
6400
!.00 to $2.50; New Price $1.00 
.25 to $1.50; New Price $ .75
5.50 to $3.00; New Price $1.25
SONS COMPANY
Let the Beans Spill!
Such jars as those irk me not at all. I tie 
the can to care and bid misfortune go roll its 
hoop. You ask me whence the source of all 
this swank, swagger and supreme sassiness?—
The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigcrette
Smoke “Tux” for serenity, comfort and con­
tent. No other tobacco will please your taste 
so thoroughly and so permanently—you’ll 
never tire of “Tux”.
That’s because it’s made of Barley leaf—full of 
sweet flavor and rich relish. And because it’s had 
all the harshness and “bite” taken 
out of it by the original and ex­
clusive “Tuxedo Process,” so that 
you can smoke it all day long 
with increasing pleasure and no 
regret.
YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE
Convenient, glassine wrapped, C _ 
moisture-proof pouch . . . OL
Famous green tin with gold 1 
lettering, curved to fit pocket 1.V/L
lrt Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c 
In Glass Humidors, 50c and 90c
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
GROGAN COMPANY
JEWELERS & 
SILVERSMITHS
WOOD STREET 
COR. 6th AVENUE
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 3245 Grant
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital, Surplus and Profits 
$9,000,000
THAT 
GRADUATION 
PICTURE
We pay particular at­
tention to graduates pic­
tures, for graduation is 
an important EPOCH 
in the life of a boy or 
girl.
JAMIESON STUDIO
242 S. Highland Ave.
BUY A BOX OF
HARRIS BROS.
VPF tBHyXlT
YOUR GIFT WILL BE APPRECIATED
CHOICE 
ROSES. AMERICAN BEAUTIES 
CARNATIONS AND VIOLETS
HARRIS BROS.
Cor. Market and Liberty Ave.
BELL PHONE 4125 GRANT 
P. & A. PHONE 72 MAIN
ANDREW G. W1RTH
BOOKBINDING
Binding of Magazines and Rebinding 
of Books a Specialty
109-111 Federal Street, Northside
SCIENCE NIGHT SCHOOL
Continued from Page \ 
a separate corps of instructors for 
night classes to be superintended by 
the department heads. This plan has 
also long since joined the ghostly 
company of the good that die young. 
During this first year, however, the 
force was so small that the majority 
of the instructors operating at night 
consisted of more or less erudite 
young engineers collected from the 
numerous establishments in this dis­
trict supplying the needs of a needy 
world—for a consideration. Some of 
these young gentlemen became in­
fected with the pedagogical microbe 
and have renounced the prospect of 
becoming millionaires for the cer­
tainty of becoming paupers in the 
cause of education. Several are still 
with us. It soon became evident that 
practical experience, however satis­
factory, could not supply a certain 
preliminary acquaintance with mathe­
matics and science that was impera­
tive for a prospective engineer. So 
the Schools were driven to organize 
a preparatory department for night 
students.
This department grew with aston­
ishing rapidity, until it almost over­
shadowed the regular night school. 
It involved an immense amount of 
labor on the part of the instructors. 
Some of the candidates had received 
a sufficient preparation some years 
previous, but had industriously for­
gotten this academic lore—sometimes 
staying up nights to accomplish it. 
Others were guileless of anything like 
adequate preparation, and still others 
needed additional applications aided 
by intellectual massage. The organi­
zation of this school required more 
thought and more heart-breaking, 
sleep-destroying labor, than almost 
any department of the schools. But 
it was done, and made possible a sub­
sequent engineering education to 
many for whom otherwise no such 
salvation was to be had. It was 
finally arranged several years ago to 
transfer this useful work to the Indus­
tries school and there the good work 
goes on. With a sigh of relief we 
gave it our blessing and ran, for fear 
the deal might be called off.
There have been many cases of 
truly heroic endeavor on the part of 
those seeking engineering enlighten­
ment in the night school. Men of 
middle age with families (sometimes 
of no race-suicide dimensions), long 
unaccustomed to the mental contor­
tions incident to the higher mathe­
matics, for example, have hung on 
with the grim determination to a for­
lorn hope and have won. Many a 
younger man has scarcely been on 
speaking terms with our old 'friend 
Morpheus during the five years of his 
engineering pilgrimage and has come 
through with a skeleton intact and 
the skin to decently cover it, but suc­
cessful.
Doubtless, it has all been worth 
while. The organization of the Night 
School of Applied Industries which 
followed shortly after the inception 
of the Day classes in that school, had 
problems of its own. The matter of 
mere numbers soon became a fear­
some thing. Many who could not 
quite meet the scholastic requirement
of the Science School, found a retreat 
in the Night School of the Industries.
Implacable and unsentimental reali­
ties have made many changes neces­
sary in the somewhat fragile theories
of night instruction held in the be­
ginning. We trust that all these 
variations from original specifications 
have tended toward the best for the 
greatest number.
