The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Photo by Dick Bingham
Honorary Cadet Colonel Lucille Orr is shown above receiving the insignia of her 
rank from Cadet Captain Nelson Crooks. The presentation was made last Saturday at 
the Scabbard and Blade’s annual Military Ball. ,
Cwen Chapters Meet 
Here for Eleventh 
National Convention
The Carnegie Tech Cwens will be 
hostesses at their eleventh national 
convention this Friday and Satur­
day. Approximately thirtyrfive dele­
gates are expected from the Uni­
versity of Kentucky, University of 
Missouri, Allegheny College, Miami 
University, Penn State, Muskingum 
College, and the University of Pitts­
burgh.
The convention will officially 
open Friday morning with registra­
tion between eight and nine o’clock 
at the Union. Panel discussions 
will be held Friday morning at ten 
and Saturday afternoon at one. The 
discussion on Friday will concern 
“Selection of Cwens” with emphasis 
on how to know freshmen better. 
On Saturday the Cwens will discuss 
contributions of the individual 
chapters to the defense program.
'At 2:30 p. m., Friday, the host­
esses will conduct a walking tour of 
Tech’s campus and the Pitt Com­
mons Room and Chapel. Plans have 
also been made for a dance in the 
Union in the evening. On Saturday 
afternoon at 2:30, there will be a 
discussion on business procedures, 
chapter reports, records, etc. At this 
meeting the invitation will be 
issued for the next convention. The 
girls will be guests at the All-Car­
negie Dance Saturday night and a 
pajama party in the dormitory 
where they will be staying.
Josephine Loeffler, who was pres­
ident of the Tech Cwen Chapter 
when the last convention was held 
in Muskingum, is chairman of the 
arrangements for this convention.
Harvest Scene Set 
For All-Campus Hop
A Mammoth Harvest Swing will 
be the theme of the All-Carnegie 
Dance to be held this Saturday 
night, October 24, from 9 to 1, in 
Thistle Hall. The novel thing about 
this affair is that fusses and frills 
are out—but definitely out. In fact, 
old clothes must be worn. So, Tech- 
ites, you can dig up those faded pur­
ple jeans you were going to throw 
away last summer, you can remove 
your moth-eaten varsity sweatei 
from the cedar chest, or you can 
just don the oldest dress you can 
find. And, girls, the most outland­
ish hairdos are in order—the more 
you look like Sis Hopkins or Cin- 
derella-before-the-ball, the better. 
In fact, the committee decrees that 
boys and girls must look their shab­
biest in order to be admitted to the 
dance.
Cornstalks, leaves, pumpkins, and 
other fall decorations will enliven 
the hall. In keeping with the in­
formal atmosphere, doughnuts and 
apple cider will be served. The af­
fair will really be modern, though, 
for regular swing music will be pro­
vided by Len Malvern and his or­
chestra. To please all those farmers 
and farmerettes attending, however, 
there may be a square dance or two.
The dance committee, of which 
Verne Spitaleri, ’43, is chairman, 
is composed of the freshman and 
sophomore class presidents of Mar­
garet Morrison, Arts, and Engineer­
ing Schools. Admission to the dance 
will be $1.10, including tax. Tickets 
will be sold in the Administration 
Building, and also by members of 
the committee.
War Stamp Booth Nets 
Over $150 in 2 Weeks; 
Girls’ Dorms Take Over
The U. S. S. Tech, better known as 
a war stamp booth sailed on its sec­
ond successful voyage last week 
with a crew of Dragons. They were 
really draggin’ ’em in to the tune 
of $42.85 in stamps. The Cwens 
“selled” into port the previous week 
with $110 in stamp loot and credit 
for a $100 bond. Not included in 
the Dragon loot are the receipts for 
the “sail” of war stamp corsages 
for Military Ball on Friday. Lucille 
Rosenfeld, head of the War Stamp 
Committee of the Defense Council, 
also directed the selling of corsages 
last Saturday and at Military Ball. 
Quoting Lucille, “We have been do­
ing very well, but we can and will 
do better!”
Members of the crew for today
Photo by Dick 3ingham
... U. S. S. Tech
and Friday will be representatives 
of Women’s Dorm Council. En­
thusiastic sailoresses will be selling 
from the portholes of the boat prow 
and advising you to buy early to 
avoid the rush. We’d rather you 
would be stamped on than tramped 
on.
America
CALLING ROME
America
CALLING ROME
Listen, Mussolini, you big fat spa­
ghetti twirler—listen to the message 
Carnegie Tech is sending to its stu­
dents :
Hello Studes,
Do you have that slow, sluggish 
feeling that comes after a hectic 
night before? Do you feel tired and 
sleepy from going to all of the 
dances and movies within a hun­
dred miles? Do you have that run­
down feeling that only comes after 
weeks of socializing? Do you feel 
that if you don’t stop and take a rest 
you won’t be able to make another 
8:30 in your life?
If so, we know what ails you—what 
you ought to do is give all of your 
spending money to the UNITED WAR 
FUND CAMPAIGN! GIVE DOUBLE!
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942
Wave Campbell Speaks 
At Women’s Assembly
Ensign Josephine Campbell, Pitts­
burgh’s first officer in the WAVES, 
will be the feature speaker at to­
day’s All Women’s Assembly spon­
sored by Mortar Board. The talk 
will be delivered to the Tech wom­
en on the WAVES program at 11:30 
in the Theater of the College of Fine 
Arts.
Ensign Campbell has been assign­
ed to the office of Naval Officer Pro­
curement to assist Lieutenant Rob­
ert D. Seltzer in interviewing young 
women for service in the Women’s 
Naval Reserve. She has just return­
ed from training in the selection of 
officers and enlisted personnel un­
der the supervision of Lieutenant, 
Margaret C. Disert at the Fourth 
Naval District headquarters in Phil­
adelphia.
For eight years previous to her 
enlistment in the WAVES, Ensign 
Campbell was Director of Public 
Relations and Admissions Officer at 
P. C. W. She holds an A. B. de­
gree from Irving College and a B.
S. degree from Simmons College.
Marion Morris, program chair­
man of Mortar Board, feels that all 
v/omen students will be interested 
in knowing more about the program 
of the WAVES.
ROTC Receives Jeep and 
Five Additional Staff Men
The newest addition to the Car­
negie R. O. T. C. Unit is what is 
officially, listed as a “Yj-ton truck, a 
Willy’s truck” or as it is commonly 
known, “a jeep.” Although it is as­
signed to Captain Layton, the jeep 
was sent here for the use of the Sig­
nal Corps. According to Captain 
Layton, the Signal Corps needs the 
truck to carry its new equipment 
which includes several 180-pound 
radios and switchboards.
Although not in the same field, 
the R. O. T. C Department has al­
so been given five new staff mem­
bers. These men are all corporals 
in the Army of the United States. 
They are: Corporals Burgess, But­
ler, McCartney, Oyster, and Sciacca.
First Aid Instructions 
Will Be Offered Again
Red Cross First Aid classes are 
being offered again on the Tech 
campus to members of the admin­
istration, faculty, and student body. 
The schedule of classes is as fol­
lows:
Elementary
Monday nights
7 to 9.....................................Women’s Gym
Miss Russell 
Tuesday afternoons
3:30 to 5:30................MMCC, Room 114
* Mrs. Blackmore
Wednesday nights
7 to 9.......................... .MMCC, Room 114
Professor Carroll Advanced 
Friday afternoons
3:30 to 5:30..........................Women’s Gym
Miss Russell
Eight students per class is the 
minimum number, and fourteen is 
the maximum. Each applicant will 
report for registration directly to 
the instructor in charge of his class.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942
pmned down 
because
YOU ARE ASLEEP
*7<4e £ditan.i /I'uncltcU'i
The SituationFor the three and three-quarter years that we have been a 
student at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, we have heard 
about the democratic form of student government which pre­
vails on this campus. We have heard it from members of the 
administration, from members of the faculty, and from the 
members who hold positions on Student Council. We hate to 
contradict anyone, but we are of the opinion that the form of 
student government which is now inexistence is about as demo­
cratic as Jersey City is under Mayor Hague. Perhaps that is 
an overstatement. In Jersey City, Hague controls all of the 
political offices; at Carnegie Tech, the fraternity combine only 
controls 97 per cent of the political offices. In other words, 28 
out of the 29 positions on Student Council are held by frater­
nity men or by their political henchwomen from the sororities. 
The Men’s Dormitories have no representation. The com­
muters, by far the largest group of students, have one vote in 
the person of Allan McDonald.
How Does T'^e Combine Operate
Any group representing roughly one-fourth of the student 
body that can totally control the student governing body must 
have an efficient organization. The Combine has exactly that. 
We don’t know the minute details of the set-up, nor do we have 
any proof that any such organization exists, but the following 
facts should convince any doubting Thomas: Each fraternity 
puts up a $25 bond which insures 90 per cent of that fraternity’s 
vote. This bond is in the form of a check made payable to the 
treasurer of the Combine. All checks are destroyed after each 
successful election. All positions are rated numerically, with 
the top positions (President and Treasurer of Student Council) 
worth 16 points, tapering down to the lowest positions (Treas­
urer of Sophomore Class) worth 1 point. No fraternity can have 
positions totaling more than 16 points and candidates for each 
position must be approved by an 80 per cent vote of the Com­
bine. Each fraternity must get at least one vote on Student 
Council.
Well, we’re not printing an expose—these are just some of 
the more important essentials.
Election by such a Combine does not mean that some of the 
members of Student Council aren’t deserving of their positions.
We don’t believe that any student in this school could do a 
better job as Council President than Jack Van Arsdell. We are 
certain that in any election, members such as Bob Reisacher, 
Ed Munyer, Peg Carver or Lucille Orr would be entitled to the 
majority vote. But we are equally certain that some of the 
members now on Council would not have a ghost of a chance 
of being elected if it were not for the Combine. We are sure 
that some fraternities have more than one man who should be 
a voting member of Council.
The fraternity men contend that there is nothing illegiti­
mate about their system. They say that the other groups on 
the campus can organize if they so desire. They say that the 
voting is honest and that there is no evidence of disorder at the 
polls. To all of these points we agree.
However, we still insist that it is unfair for one organiza­
tion which, at the most, represents but 25 per cent of the total 
enrollment of the school to control 28 out of 29 positions of the 
governing body of that school. It is also a fact that the men 
now on Council are not the best men from the total fraternity 
group, let alone the best men from the total student body.
How Can The Situation Be Remedied
There are two possible methods of improving the present 
situation. The first is by getting the Independent faction or­
ganized and to the polls at election time; the second is by revis­
ing the present method of Student Council representation and 
organization.
The first solution has little chance of success. Evidently, 
commuters and dorm men feel that attending classes is all that is 
to be derived from a college education. Attempts have been 
made to organize them, to get them interested in all-school func­
tions, to interest them in extra-curricular activities, but, with 
one exception, all attempts have failed. We feel that any plans 
for organizing this group are hopeless. Therefore we must 
resort to the second method.
In order to insure fair representation of the student body, 
we have considered several plans for Student Council reorgan­
ization. Space does not permit any discussion of these plans 
this week, but in the next issue of the TARTAN we shall present 
a democratic and practical method of student representation 
for this campus.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
HELP WANTED
All Day Saturdays and Monday Evenings
IF YOU ARE INTERESTED 
IN WORKING
AT KAUFMANN’S 
COME TO OUR 
EMPLOYMENT OFFICE ON THE 10TH FLOOR
AT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
FOR AN INTERVIEW
KAUFMANN’S
FIFTH AND SMITHFIELD
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
MPMHNTto roi. PhotbPhy hbDicotktPb 3n After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief......................T. sc. 9070
Business Manager.........................SC. 9855
gaighmo • 3bmobP • Lot hPmiytm R mhP OPhPgtmgb Advertising1 Manager................BR. 4759
Entered as seconc-ciass matter In tbe Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Snbscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief................................................................................................Leonard ChotinerBusiness Manager...................................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors..................................... ..............................................................Jack ShoreWalter Haller
Co-Copy Editors........................................................................................Stanley A. Rosencrans
Jeanne King
Staff Secretary................................................................................................................Pat Elman
Sports Editor..............................................................................................•____'-----Don Watkins
Personnel Manager............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
“We’ve been ‘goin* steady* a 
time, you and I. You see, 
m a symbol of the life and 
sparkle of Coca-Cola. There­
fore, I speak for Coke. I like 
your company. I offer some­
thing more than a thirst* 
quenching drink. It's re­
freshing. Yes siree...it*s 
got that extra something 
you can’t get this side of 
Coca-Cola itself. Let’s get 
together. Make it a Cok® 
date.”
•OTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
almost one of the boys
This typical product of the expe­
dited program has attained em­
inence as design and production en­
gineer in charge of paper aircraft. 
Though some of the faculty (guess 
who, Prof. Saylor!) fail to appreci­
ate his designing genius, most of 
the students in Mechanical Engi­
neering have become his ardent dis­
ciples.
. . . Jacques Holloway
imagination. At first our hero mere­
ly turned in his class coupon and 
did his nightwork regularly, al­
though he appeared absent when 
called upon for recitation. Things
Aside from his engineering career, 
Jacques is majoring in Social Rela­
tions and expects to receive a dou­
ble B. S. degree in December. When 
extra-curricular activities are con­
sidered, he practically rates as a B. 
M. O. C., having found time to be 
second vice-president of Student 
Council, past ,editor of the Whistle, 
joke editor of the Pottie, and last, 
but least, varsity end on the tiddly­
winks team.
Music Dept's Record 
Recital to Feature 
Wagner and Beethoven
This semester the music depart­
ment reinaugurated a program of 
record recitals held on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays at 12:30 P. M. To 
date these recitals have been at­
tended by few people considering 
.the good selections.
Today the program will consist 
of selections from Richard Wagner’s 
opera, “Tristan and Isolde.” The 
Thursday program will be a group 
of selections from Bach and Beeth­
oven. Mr. Pearson and Dr. Dorian 
supervise the Tuesday and Thurs­
day programs respectively.
Wagner wrote the operas “Tristan 
and Isolde” while he was working 
on “The Ring of the Niebelungen” 
and completed it in 1859, having to 
wait six years before it was per­
formed for the first time. Of all the 
Wagnerian operas, “Tristan” is the 
least clear having many subtle 
meanings which are often missed, 
even by the people who love it most.
The score for “Tristan” is very 
much the same as that of the other 
operas; it is definitely Wagner and 
could not be mistaken for the work 
of any other composer. The fiery 
spirit of Siegfried is as much in 
evidence in this opera as is the ten­
der touching soul of “Lohengrin,” 
or “Tannhauser.” This is great 
music, and commands the atten­
tion of the large majority of music 
lovers.
Especially liked by him are the 
Beanery food, the Army (even if he 
is in class Z-ll), intelligent women, 
and Tech girls. His pet hates in­
clude E-452, high altitudes, and 
wolves who keep calling his honey 
child at WA. 0847 (ask for Evelyn). 
To prove his patriotism, Jacques has 
just donated 15 pints of blood to 
the Red Cross.
The truth is, however, that Jac­
ques is but the figment of the Aeros’
began to pile up, however, when a 
quiz was announced. Did Jacques 
let his fellow students down then? 
Now he appeared (supposedly from 
nowhere) and passed it trumphant- 
ly. In fact, the Professor was heard 
to exclaim, “Well done, Jacques!” 
the next day. So here’s to Jacques 
Holloway, may his career be as long 
as it has been brilliant.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
On Reca'id
Kilties and Glee Club
Record Tech Songs
At last! For many years untu­
tored Freshmen have struggled to 
master the intricacies of Tech songs. 
For ages Alumni have complained 
that there was no way to keep alive 
the songs of their beloved Alma 
Mater. Why, even the present stu­
dent body sometimes flounders 
when asked to render “Here Where 
Spangled Wilderness”!
Comes the Men’s Glee Club to the 
rescue. With the help of the Kiltie 
Band, they have secured the back­
ing of Student Council to make a 
12-inch record of a medley of Tech 
songs, including such favorites as 
the “Skibo Song,” “Fight For the 
Glory of Carnegie,” and “Dear Old 
Tech.” In fact, Council has already 
appropriated $180 to make the mas­
ter recording and the initial copies.
But listen here! They want it 
clearly understood that these are 
not to be home-made affairs. The 
discs are to be regular commercial 
recordings, made by a New York 
firm.
Alumni may purchase their rec­
ords through the various Men’s and 
Women’s Clans, while students (for 
whom they are primarily being 
made) will be notified when they 
go on sale.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942
We wish to commend those of you who wore defense stamp corsages 
at the Military Ball. Also, bouquets to Scabbard and Blade for cooperat­
ing in selling the corsages, and allowing them to be sold at the door!
Some universities have eliminated dances from their social programs 
for the duration, others have passed “no corsage” rules, therefore we don’t 
consider it too radical to suggest permitting only defense stamp corsages 
at future Tech Balls. Students have said that holding dances in the ap­
proved pre-war fashion helps to build morale. This is a nice nationaliza­
tion for the business as usual attitude, but the morale builders usually 
concentrate on adjusting people to the wartime situations that confront 
them rather than giving them dabs of what they used to enjoy.
It is rather silly having to justify selling stamps thru the defense cor­
sage idea, but the speed with which students have jumped at the scheme 
has been unencouraging. Disapproval of the defense committee’s plan of 
selling stamps and bonds on campus has been forthcoming from both fac­
ulty and student body. They feel that students do not as a rule have any 
money above that needed for essentials. It seems strange from this argu­
ment that so many advertisements should be aimed directly at college stu­
dents. They do control a small portion of the family budget, and they still 
are spending that portion on clothes, and shows, in addition to necessities. 
One of the purposes of the war stamps, in case anyone is interested, is to 
cut unessential spending to a minimum. When you can blend the spending 
of money on a corsage, and buy stamps at the same time, what valid ob­
jection can there be?
The United War Fund Campaign is now under way, and new groans 
are heard on all sides. Brother, you don’t appreciate how privileged you 
are that you have been able to stay home and give. YOU ARE NOT DO­
ING ENOUGH FOR YOUR COUNTRY BY GOING TO SCHOOL.
Before you call Long Distance, 
please ask yourself:
1. Is it really necessary?
2. Will it interfere with war calls ?
rpELEPIlOiNE lines — especially Long Distance circuits 
X —are crowded as never before, these war days. Mate­
rials to build new lines — copper, rubber, nickel — are 
needed for the shooting war. So we must get the most 
out of present facilities.
You can help us keep the wires clear for vital war calls 
if you will do these two things: (1) Don’t call Long Dis­
tance unless it’s urgent; (2) Call by number if possible 
and please be brief. Thank you!
Meet Keok'i. s
Small Group Maintains 65 Acres, 
Specialization Helps Efficiency
By Walter Darby
Not including the fraternity 
grounds, the Carnegie Tech cam­
pus covers sixty-five acres, the care 
of which is placed in the hands of 
eighty-eight men, under the super­
vision of Mr. Frank M. Keck. Arith­
metically, this would give each man 
about three-quarters of an acre to 
care for, heating, cutting grass, sup­
plying power, and doing the innum­
erable amount of odd jobs attendant 
upon the care of such an area. Act­
ually, the allotment of manpower is 
much more efficient, placing some 
men in the office, some in the power 
plant, some on the grounds to cut 
grass and rake leaves, some in re­
pair work, and some in electrical 
work, so that each man has his own 
specific duties.
Another duty of this department 
is the repair and maintenance of 
buildings and equipment, under 
which category falls the cleaning- 
up of the swimming pool after such 
debacles as the last Senior Duck­
ing, keeping the walks in good re­
pair, replacing broken windows, 
and fixing the damage done in the 
dorms when the men get too bois­
terous. According to Mr. Keck, 
however, the men’s dorms aren’t as 
bad as some have pictured them, 
with respect to the annual damage 
done, about the worst damage com­
ing during the snowball season, 
when the window breagake runs 
fairly high.
Also coming under this depart­
ment are the night watchmen, 
whose duty it is to prowl the lonely 
night hours from nine to five, driv­
ing out bums, keeping the noise at 
a minimum, and seeing that local 
residents have no reason to com­
plain about the proximity of so 
many college students. They do 
not try to hold a club over the men’s 
heads to accomplish their duty, 
either, but, rather, try to assume an 
attitude of friendliness and helpful­
ness toward the students. Their 
job is made especially difficult by 
the lack of people and excitement. 
The one that guards the fraternity 
houses says that his sole companion 
is “Pike,” the PiKA’s dog, who goes 
everywhere with him. Of course, 
walking around eight hours in sub­
zero weather helps to keep up the 
spirits, too, but come rain, snow, 
hot, or cold, the night watchmen 
must be on their beat.
By far and large, the biggest head­
ache of the department is the prob­
lem of supplying all Tech with 
enough power to keep it going. A 
thirty-year-old plant doesn’t aid the 
situation any, for “Continuity of 
Service” must be maintained. Yet 
with all their troubles there, they 
must supply two-thirds of all the 
power for Tech—some 7500 kilo­
watt-hours per day being used 
around here. Ten men take care of 
this job, and the heating also falls 
under their list of duties. Tech con­
sumes 22 tons of coal for light and 
hot water on a nice day. When the 
thermometer hits zero, 65 tons are 
used each day. The measure is one 
ton per degree day—that is, take 
the temperature of the day and sub­
tract it from 65, and the result is the 
number of tons used for heat on 
that day. Since electric power is 
used by the entire campus, more 
strain is put on the lines than orig­
inally planned. In the dorm sys­
tem, for instance, the power used is 
even now wavering close to the 
maximum which the lines can take, 
what with everyone owning a radio 
and running all kinds of lighting 
systems.
Write for chart picturing 
18 beautiful all-smooth 
models, telling benefits of
AmericaCL ImNiGNiR OMcNie’ A Isa same styles, all-etched, 
with Eagle or " Vn engraved 
PATRIOTIC EMBLEMS j; j j specially designed for men in 
engraved on ]H service as well as civilians.e
jiffy a_______Wm Dtmuth 9 Co.. Inc.. N. Y.J,;ETCHED BOWL

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
On the Lighter Sideby Art North
Darn you Gebelow, you’re out of step again
Wold&L lAJaiciifouueA.
By WALTER HALLER
. . . On The Campus
“On the Campus” is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. 
O. Box 409 by Friday noon of the week 
before publication.
A. I. E. E. and E. K. No Socialize
The A. I. E. E. and E. K. N’s will 
open their social season tomorrow 
night at 8:00 P. M. in the student 
Union with a color-sound movie. 
The title is: “Lying a Submarine 
Power Cable.” This film, incidental­
ly, shows construction or the world’s 
largest power cable across Puget 
Sound. Refreshments will be pro­
vided the Electrical Engineers after 
the motion pictures. Sorry, but the 
meeting is only for E. E.’s.
Freshman Debating Society
Do you have a propensity to­
wards argumentation, expostulation 
and elucidation? In other words,
do you like to debate? If so, the 
Freshman Debating Society will in­
terest you. This group is holding 
its organization meeting in Room 
229-B, Industries Hall, today at 3:30 
P. M. They’re going to start the 
season discussing “The Federal 
Union Question.”
International Relations Club 
For women oniyl The Interna­
tional Relations Club will meet 
tomorrow afternoon, October 21st, 
from 3:30-5:00 in the Union. All 
women students on campus are in­
vited to come to Room. B and join 
in the discussion.
Tech Discussion Group
For men only! This sounds like 
a burlesque! Anyhow, the Tech 
Men’s Discussion Group comes back 
with the snappy retort that they 
will meet this afternoon, at 12:30, 
in room 225-B of Industries Hall.
ON YOUR LIST 
TO REMEMBER
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
BOWLING
—at—
UNIVERSITY 
RECREATION
Craig Near Forbes
Last week the Scottie staff put 
their second issue of the current 
school year on sale. Hungry for 
light reading matter, I plunked 
down my 15 pennies and purchased 
a copy of the magazine. Just as so 
many times during the past three 
years, I was disappointed with what 
I found inside.
This latest product of Pi K. A. 
genius contained 36 pages, including 
cover. Three pages of the cover 
were full of color national adver­
tisements, and sixteen inside pages 
were syndicated government pub­
licity releases, all of which comes to 
the Scottie staff already printed. A 
page of Government Postal Regula­
tions and five and one half pages of 
borrowed cartoons and jokes help­
ed fill out the remaining portions of 
the magazine.
Allowing lor masthead and local 
advertisements, eight and one half 
pages remained to be filled with the 
flower of Carnegie Tech literature. 
Four and one half of these were al- 
' loted to gossip, but apparently the 
Pi K. A.’s and Beetles aren’t dating 
quite as much as usual, since it be­
came necessary to allow the “Fleas” 
plenty of white space in which to 
scratch, with an occasional stock cut 
of a Scottie dog relieving the drab 
monotony of the long jaunt be­
tween items. A full page of car­
toons by a Freshman P. and D. was 
the sole artistic effort at home­
grown humor.
The current issue of the SCOT­
TIE is no exception to its predeces­
sors, but only the latest in a long 
line of abominable literary efforts 
which somehow have been sought 
by students because of curiosity 
more than any other factor. The 
main objections in most student’s 
minds are the following:
1. Too much “canned” material: 
syndicated publicity releases, and 
borrowed jokes and cartoons.
2. Monopolization of the “Fleas” 
columns by a few fraternities and 
sororities.
3. No attempt on the part of the 
Scottie staff to encourage student 
literary effort.
These defects seem to be inherent 
in the system domination of a cam­
pus publication by one fraternity. A 
gossip column could hardly be of in­
terest to all the students, the writers 
of which make no effort to include 
groups other than their own. At­
tempts at improvement are hardly 
to be expected on the part of those 
whose future staff positions are al­
ready secure. Encouragement of 
campus-wide literary effort might 
be dangerous in that it would take 
the privilege of writing articles 
aw^y from the chosen few. As long 
as advertisers continue to pay a 
large portion of the expenses of 
publication, as long as Student 
Council grants the staff an appro­
priation, and as long as the stu­
dents continue to buy the magazine 
regardless of whether or not they 
get their money’s worth, the general 
attitude of the staff is “Why disturb 
the goose that’s laying the golden 
eggs?”
CLASSIFIED ADS
THE
PLACE TO EAT
------in------
OAKLAND
------is------
BILL’S LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
QUALITY FLOWERS
IN
UP-TO-DATE STYLING
THE ROSERY
MAyflower 5®^
Consult Us For Your Flower Needs
For Freshman All-Carnegie 
Style Your Hair at
HELENE BEAUTY SALON
1825 Murray Ave. HA. 1661
Open Till 9:00 P. M.
------------- LOST AND FOUND
LOST—ONE BETA 
SIGMA RHO 
FRATERNITY PIN 
Reward SChenley 9855
TOMARELLI
SUPER
CLEANING and TAILORING 
Phone SChenley 0348
---------------- EMPLOYMENT
Wanted—Job for 
Saturday Afternoon 
J. Jacobs SChenley 9933
FOR THAT WEEK-END DINNER 
MUSIC with your MEALS
------at the------
BETSY ROSS
Forbes and Atwood Oakland
Have you found anything?
Have you lost anything?
Do you want to sell anything?
Do you want to buy anything?
THE CLASSIFIED SECTION 
CAN HELP YOU
Call Howard Gartner 
SChenley 9933
All copy for the Tuesday issue must 
be in on Friday before publication.
LOOK YOUR BEST AT FRESHMAN 
ALL-CARNEGIE
MOLLA BEAUTY PARLOR
5878 Forbes Street JA. 1418

---------------------------------------------------

êTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942
Off The Cuff
Don (Juice) Jordano, sharpest 
senior printer of them all, and Pat 
Walker, sweetest sophomore dra- 
mat the Beetles have, exchanged “I 
do’s” at St. Philomena’s Church in 
Squirrel Hill this past Saturday 
morning. The church was also the 
scene of big brother Frank’s mar­
riage to the former Aida Squiteri a 
year ago.
When people start going to 
church together it begins to look 
serious—witness Lucy Deily and 
Dick Franks.
It ain’t fair—some, people just 
have all the luck! We mean Kay La- 
boon, who’s off next week for the 
Navy-Notre Dame game. Will some­
one please tell us what a gams looks 
like outside the Pitt Stadium?
Memo to Marg Woodburn and 
Dolly Willison: What or who)
does Pitt have that Tech doesn’t, 
you deserters?
If you want to know why every­
body has been hanging around at. 
the hurdles lately, talk to Alpha 
pledge mistress Marie Schurko. 
She’s getting her little pledges in 
condition for a race with the Gam­
ma pledges.
Pat Elman and Wally Hirsch will 
put on the dog for their big formal 
redding at the Savoy-Plaza in New 
Fork City tomorrow. The happy 
pair will return to the Smokey City 
so that Pat can finish her studies 
and graduate in December.
Council Minutes
Student Council is of the opinion 
that the most important activity in 
this school is Student Council. How­
ever, the TARTAN feels that tribute 
should be paid to our allies, and we 
are certain that Council will not 
object if the minutes of its meetings 
are used for such a worthy purpose. 
Accordingly, we are presenting this 
week’s minutes in Polish— at least 
we think it’s Polish.—Ed.
Zebranie otworzono o godzinie 7:15 
wieczorem.
Nieobecni: pp. Fitzgerald, Landerman, 
Munyer, Shewitz oraz panna McKee. 
SPRAWOZDANIA KOMITET6W 
Komitet Towarzyski
P. Spitaleri przedstawil tymczasowy 
budzet dla Freshman All Carnegie. 
Wskutek rozbieznosci z budzetem zeszlo- 
rocznym, p. Schatz zazadal pozwolenia 
rozwazenia budzetu.
P. Schatz pozniej postawit wniosek, 
aby Komitet Wykonawczy Rady zostal 
upowazniony do przyjecia tego budzetu.
Wniosek przechodzi.
P. Spitaleri stawia wniosek, aby ta- 
niec Freshman All Carnegie odbyl si§ 
w Thistle Hall.
Wniosek przechodzi.
Komitet Budzetowy
P. Schatz stawia wniosek o przyjgcie 
kontraktow na druki i roboty rytowni- 
cze dla 1943 Thistle.
Wniosek przechodzi.
P. Schatz stawia wniosek o przyjecie 
budzetu Omikron Delta Kappa stowa- 
rzyszenia.
Wniosek przechodzi.
P. Schatz stawia wniosek o przyjecie 
budzetu dla CWCA.
Wniosek przechodzi.
Zgromadzenia
P. Reisacher podal do wiadomosci, ze 
tradycyjne egzaminy freshmanow mgs- 
kich odbeda si§ we wtorek 20-go paz- 
dziernika.
Wybory
P. Beatty stawia wniosek o zatwier-
“Fit to be tied,?’
If you’re “fit to be tied” with shorts that hitch and 
bind you, change to Arrow Shorts, with the patent­
ed seamless crotch construction 
. . . there’s no binding or chaf­
ing, and there’s plenty of room!
The Arrow Sanforized label is 
assurance that the garment will 
stay your correct size. (Fabric 
shrinkage less than 1%). Get 
Arrow Shorts 
today!
Tops, 55c up 
Shorts, 75c up
* BUY V. S. WAS BONDS AND STAMPS *
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
Arrow HEADQUARTERSGREEN BROTHERS
440 Wood StreetDowntown
Fighting Tech Team Defeats Weak 
Grove City Outfit by 19-6 Margin
By Mike Capebianco 
Reid “Clumpo” Byers played 59^2 
minutes of the best fullbacking 
played by a Tech tailback in-a- 
long-time, and Carnegie swamped 
the Crimson of Grove City on the 
latter’s muddy gridiron to the tune 
of 19-6 last Saturday. Byers, tearing
dzenie wyniku wyborow na wice-prezy- 
dentke klasy freshmanow w Margaret 
Morrison: Evelyn Kane.
Wniosek przechodzi.
CIT Rada Obrony
P. Curry podal do wiadomosci, ze CIT 
Rada Obrony odbywa swoje zebrania 
w. czasie, w ktorym nie moze on brae 
w nich udzialu. Prosil o zwolnienie go 
z tego stanowiska. P. Van Arsdell 
wyznaczyl p. Boyce na jego miejsce. 
STARE SPRAWY
P. Dolan zlozyl sprawozdanie w spra- 
wie Who’s who among students in 
American Colleges and Universities. Po- 
stara si? przyniesc egzemplarz tej ksiaz- 
ki na nastepne zebranie aby czlonko- 
wie mogli si§ z nia zapoznac.
Kroki podjete przez zeszloroczna ra- 
de odnosnie drukowania protokolow ra- 
dy w Tartan zostaly odczytane. Nasta- 
pila dyskusja.
P. Spitaleri stawia wniosek o odwo- 
lanie uchwaly rady z 14-go pazdzierni- 
ka 1941, ktorej pierwsze wymaganie 
stwierdza, ze protokoly Rady Studentow 
powinny bye drukowane w pelni w Tar­
tan w tekscie, ktory ma bye dostar- 
czony personelowi Tartanu przez sekre- 
tarza Rady Studentow.
Wniosek przepada.
P. Reisacher stwierdzil, ze nie rozu- 
mie dlaczego Komitet Publikacji, ktory 
mial sie skladac z bezpartyjnych re- 
prezentantow publikacji, ma w swym 
skladzie czlonkow reprezentujacych de- 
finitywne grupy. P. Van Arsdell stwier­
dzil, ze sprawa zostanie rozwazona przy 
rewidowaniu regul Rady Studentow.
P. Nierenberg stawia wniosek, aby Ra­
da zaj?la sie mozliwoscia zniesienia za- 
kazu ogloszen browarow w pismie stu- 
denckim, gdyz ogloszenia te sa powaz- 
nym ¿rodlem dochodu.
P. Van Arsdell zawiadomil Rade, ze 
poczynil starania dokonania rekordowa- 
nia piesni szkolnych. P. Schatz sta­
wia wniosek aby Rada Studentow za- 
mowila 250 rekordow kosztem $180. 
Rada Studentow, jako producent, ma 
przyjac na siebie odpowiedzialnosc fi- 
nansowa i'praw autorskieh; zas wszel- 
kie dochody ze sprzedazy w jakimkol- 
wiek czasie b§da prizelewane do Kasy 
Rezerwy Rekordow. Jedynym wydat- 
kiem, ktory b§dzie mogl bye dokonywa- 
ny z tego funduszu moze bye koszt sta- 
lej wlasnosci uzywanej przez Men’s 
Glee Club wzglednie Kiltie Band.
Wniosek przechodzi.
Posiedzenie odroczono.
LUCILLE ORR, 
Sekretarka
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
holes at will in the Grover’s line, 
consistently roared through for 
gains of 8 to 15 yards. In addition 
to scoring twice, he personally made 
six first downs.
The Tartans had the victory 
formula memorized and outclassed 
the home team in all departments: 
punting by Carnahan, passing by 
McLaughlin, receiving by Neu­
mann, blocking and tackling by 
Captain Don Burns, Purcell, Lind- 
hreg, and Pantell, line-backing by 
Jones, fancy running by Pash, smart 
quarterbacking by Weise, and pow­
erhouse line-smashing by Byers. 
Tech rolled up 16 first downs against 
two for the Grovers, one on a pen­
alty the other, a ruled interference 
on a pass. The score shields the true 
story as Tech was stopped three 
times on the Crimson one yard line 
twice by fumbles and once on 
downs.
Byers paved the road for the first 
score with a 34 yard off-tackle 
smash. After a fumble on the one 
yard stripe and an exchange of 
kicks Tech stormed back and Mc­
Laughlin flipped an aerial to wing- 
man Carnahan in the end zone. The 
second score was set up when Mc­
Laughlin, again passing, chucked 
a 40 yard heave to Manny Neu­
mann on the Crimson four. Byers 
smacked the line three times and 
on the fourth try he carried half 
of the Grove City line over the goal 
line and dumped them in the mud. 
In the last quarter Tech marched 
down the field with deep reverses 
by Pash and McLaughlin, the Tar­
tan line opened up hole after hole 
and then Byers “swan-dived” over 
guard to ring up the final score.
The two standouts for the losers 
were Graham and fullback Mervyn 
Nugent whose good kicking kept 
the Grovers in the game. Grove 
City’s touchdown was made possi­
ble by ruled interference on a pass, 
good for 18 yards. Another pass 
Nugent, to quarterback, Machesney 
tallied.
Early in the second stanza Pash, 
on an end run skirt got into the 
open, cut back, reversed his field 
and galloped 54 yards before being 
stopped by the opposing' safety man. 
The goal line thrust was halted by 
a fumble. Quick kicks by Ma­
chesney warded off the fighting Tar­
tans till the third quarter.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

HR
EMri *i ,*p"
CAMELS EVERY TIME. 
THEY'VE GOT WHAT I 
WANT-. MILDNESS 
AND FLAVOR APLENTY
Intramural Football Sees Upsets 
As To Teams Face Early Playoffs
With exceptional ball playing on 
the part of several of the intramural 
football teams, the end of the sea­
son is rapidly drawing nigh. A few 
of the ball clubs have surged forth 
with startling speed to upset play­
offs which were practically taken 
for granted. Underdogs have toss­
ed the leagues into ties. Witness the 
game between the Zoot Suits and 
the Citcoms. The fine passing of 
A1 McDonald, Citcom star, was ex­
pected to net a victory in their favor, 
but great difficulty was encounter­
ed; namely, the passing of Bulbert- 
son which evidently was superior 
because the final outcome showed 
that the Zoots defeated the Citcom- 
ers 32-23.
In League I, the powerful little 
team from Clyde Street, namely the 
Kappa Sigs, threw their league into 
a tie between the Phi Kaps and the 
Beta Sigs by beating the Phi Kaps 
in the last few minutés of play on a 
pass intercepted by Ed Chipman, 
who outran long-legged “Itch” Hen- 
nesy the full length of the field for a
touchdown. This game was prob­
ably the fastest and most furious 
yet played this year. At the half, 
the score was 15-7 in favor of the 
Phi Kaps. In the third period the 
Kappa Sigs made two touchdowns 
to the Phi Kaps one, fixing the tal­
ly at 20-17. Then with a Kappa Sig 
touchdown and two first downs on 
the part of the Phi Kaps, the score 
was thrown into a 22-22 tie in the 
last few minutes of the final quar­
ter. The Phi Kaps, striving to re­
lieve their precarious position, re­
ceived the kick-off from the Kappa 
Sigs and started a touchdown march 
which carried them to the one foot 
line. Here Chipman intercepted a 
fourth down pass and sped to pay 
dirt and a Kappa Sig victory. This 
victory by the Kappa Sigs now 
necessitates a play-off between the 
Beta Sigma Rho pile drivers and 
Phi Kaps to determine the winners 
of League I,
The top teams in the leagues at 
present are: League I, Phi Kaps and 
Beta Sigs; League II^Theta Xi and 
Pi K. A.; and League III, the Zoots.
Soccer Team Bows to 
Slippery Rock in Opener
In the soccer season’s opener, the 
Tartan team was defeated by Slip­
pery Rock in a hard battle. When 
the final whistle blew, the score 
was tied at two all, but the authori­
ties decided to play two five minute 
over-time periods, and with two 
minutes left in the second of these, 
the boys from Slippery Rock scored 
and won the game, 3-2.
The first two quarters saw no 
score by either side, but the Tech 
team was the most aggressive and 
had the ball in enemy territory dur­
ing most of this time. However, 
the Tartans lacked something; 
whenever they had the ball. inside 
the enemy eighteen yard line they 
were seemingly powerless. Like­
wise, when the ball was inside their 
own eighteen yard line they 
couldn’t get it away from their op­
ponents.
The third quarter saw vigorous 
action by both sides. Rebell of Slip­
pery Rock scored, but Connolly of 
Tech matched this. Cassidy of Slip­
pery Rock scored and pushed his 
team into the lead by the score of 
2-1. In the last period Nick Yarn 
tied up the game for Tech when he
Tartans Meet Allegheny
It has been officially announced 
that Carnegie will journey to play 
Allegheny College on November 14. 
The remainder of the season’s sched­
ule lists games in Buffalo this Satur­
day, Pitt at the stadium on October 
31, November 7 open and Allegheny 
on November 14th.
Intramural Swimming
The Intramural Board has an 
nounced that any individual wha 
wishes to swim for an organization 
in intramural competition must be­
gin practice soon in order to be eli­
gible for participation. The rules 
are that each person must have six 
hours of practice. Events to be held 
consist of the 25 and 50 yard free­
style, the fifty yard backstroke, 100 
i relay, and diving.
scored on a free kick. It was then 
decided to go into over-time periods. 
The score remained tied through 
the first and all but two minutes of 
the second over-time. With about 
two minutes left in the second 
extra period Cassidy again scored 
for Slippery Rock to win the game.
This week, the Booters travel to 
Grove City, with high hopes of 
scoring their first victory.
B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
IN THE TANK CORPS they say__
COWBOY for tank driver 
SLIP THE CLUTCH for complain 
"BUTTON UP for closing the turret cover 
"CAMEL" for their favorite cigarette
? With men in the Army, Navy, Marines, 
and Coast Guard, the favorite cigarette 
is Camel. (Based on actual sales records 
in Post Exchanges and Canteens.)
The T-Zone"
where cigarettes 
are judged
The "T-ZONE"—'Taste and Throat—is the prov­
ing ground for cigarettes. Only your taste and 
throat can decide which cigarette tastes best to 
you... and how it affects your throat. For your 
taste and throat are individual to you. Based on 
the experience of millions of smokers, we be­
lieve Camels will suit your "T-ZONE" to a"T/' 
Prove it for yourself!
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1942 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1042
<3The (fTarnctjie plaid
President of Council Compelled 
To Appoint New Evening Officers
^ /5
Whether the large proportion of 
the enrolled students were not in­
terested, or whether they were not 
aware that a Council election was 
being held, is the greatest mystery 
on the campus. It was our hope, 
originally, to be able to report at 
least a modest turnout and a hotly 
contested election but to be forced 
to relate such disappointing results 
is a most distasteful task.
Of 1,472 students attending school 
this fall, to have had only 28 pres­
ent at the election is difficult to com­
prehend. Never in the history of 
Student Council has so small a 
crowd attended this most important 
affair of the school year.
The men and women elected to 
these offices represent the student’s 
choice, but under the circum­
stances, we had to forego the usual 
procedure of a secret-ballot vote 
and inaugurate a new system.
A motion was put before the 
electorate to grant authority to the 
new Council President, Stephen W. 
Marcinizyn, to appoint Council 
members from the eligible students 
present, and this motion was car­
ried.
The School of Engineering had 
sufficient men presented to fill all 
of their offices and the following 
were appointed: Albert Kerstukos, 
President, Robert Aungst, Vice 
President, Edward Macha, Secre­
tary, and Albert C. Flanders, Treas­
urer.
The College of Fine Arts has only 
one eligible member, and in view 
of this fact, Nancy E. Lewis was 
appointed President of this group.
The School of Industries, which 
comprises all registrants in Mar­
garet Morrison and non-degree 
courses, had no candidates present 
and, therefore, no appointments 
were made to represent that group.
Most of us cannot appreciate the 
many services benefitted from rep­
resentation in the form of a Student 
Council, and it would be a serious 
handicap to all should we be forced 
to dissolve such a worthy organiza­
tion.
Our Council has been in operation 
for the past eighteen years and in 
every sense of the word has been an 
asset to the student body. Since it 
has complete control over all 
evening student activities, it would 
only seem natural that all students 
would be interested in who will 
represent them, and feel it their 
duty to elect persons worthy of the 
office vested to them.
.'iMHilKIMÉ
TOOL and DIE MAKING 
INSTRUMENT MAKING 
Courses 3 to 12 Weeks
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
Expert Individual Instruction 
Write, Phoneor Call 9 a.m.-9:30p.m. 
---- We employ no solicitors ——
METROPOLITAN
TECHNICAL
SCHOOL
2*0 W. 41 St.. N.Y. LOngacre 3-21S0
LHVMrd by Stal» of New York
Balance of Survey 
Uncovers Rurals
Space did not permit our printing 
the full Geographical survey in last 
week’s issue and only Allegheny 
County figures were given. The fol­
lowing completes the survey pre­
sented by the Registrar’s Office. 
PENNSYLVANIA — Armstrong 
County: Apollo 2; Beaver County:
Aliquippa 1, Ambridge 14, Baden 1, 
Beaver 5, Beaver Falls 3, Freedom 
2, Monaca 1, New Brighton 3, Ro­
chester 1; Butler County: Butler 2,
Evans City 1, Mars 1, Zelienoplel; 
Fayette County: Belle Vernon 2, 
Fayette 1 Greene County: Syca­
more 1; Lawrence County: New
Wilmington 1, New Castle 1, Ell- 
wood City 1; Washington County: 
Burgettstown 2, Canonsburg 5, 
Charleroi 2, Donora 10, Elrama 1, 
Finleyville 1, Jaffre 1, McDonald 6, 
Midway 1, Monongahela 3, Venetia 
1, Washington 11; Westmoreland 
County: Arnold 7, Export 2, Grape- 
ville 1, Greensburg 9, Herminie 1, 
Irwin 9, Jeannette 7, Larimer 1, La- 
trobe 3, Manor 1, Monessen 4, Mt. 
Pleasant 1, New Kensington 43, 
Webster 1, West Newton 2. OHIO— 
Jefferson County: Steubenville 1,
Toronto 1.
6‘Share A Ride” Program 
Is Now Being Formulated
The editorial office has been de­
luged with inquiries in connection 
with the article printed in last 
week’s issue of “Carnegie Plaid” 
concerning the “pooling of cars.” 
The idea seems to have taken hold 
in a big way as many students have 
indicated willingness to share their 
cars with some other students in 
their adjacent vicinities.
It has been suggested that the 
“Plaid” inaugurate a column listing 
the names of those who wish to offer 
these rides. If you are interested in 
this plan, please write your name, 
address, and phone number on a 
sheet of papers and indicate also the 
route you travel to school. Deposit 
this information in the post box in 
Administration Hall addressed to 
The Plaid, Carnegie Union, 5075 
Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. (No 
postage necessary). Upon receiving 
a response to your ad, we will get in 
touch with you and contact may be 
established between the two inter­
ested parties.
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Leonard Judd is mighty proud of 
his daughter . . . Has Finleyville 
yet captured the heart of Bob Mc- 
Featers? . . . Basil Leggin and Har­
ry Gray are really getting around 
since the Army has taken their 
rivals into service . . . Dick Lynch 
is out of school this semester but 
will be back next term if “Uncle 
Sam” doesn’t beat him to the draw 
. . . George Rau is overseas—we 
hear he’s getting fatter—it must be 
far easier “rolling” around than 
walking ... Ed Tiepel (the rat) 
deserted Th this year for Pitt (we’ve 
cut him off without a penny).
Aside to Junior Pettigrew—what 
kind of a “Frat” brother are you? 
Not even an introduction to that 
lovely on Thursday night — must 
have been instinct to keep her away 
from those wolves because they 
were wearing muzzles and you 
couldn’t possibly have heard their 
“howls” . . .
Wonder whether Margie’s still 
kindling the idea she needs a repair 
job on her nose—we like it just the 
way it is . . . No one has seen Bob 
Lenigan or Jim Flaherty lately — 
maybe they got lost in the “Black­
out” and are still groping in the 
dark—could be . . .
Nancy Morrison is forever bring­
ing her five PIGS to class—it’s al­
right tho’ since she’s making a 
bracelet of the little silver animals 
— (the first time we heard her men­
tion “puffing them out” we had the 
urge to report her to the Humane 
Society).
At jdait! cJia+u&booJzA.
Every student enrolled in the 
Evening Colleges who has not re­
ceived one of the Handbooks dis­
tributed at the Election Party last 
Saturday is eligible to receive, with­
out charge, a copy upon the pre­
sentation of a Registration Card at 
the Registrar’s Office in Adminis­
tration Hall. Be sure to secure one 
without delay.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Stu­
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
All views or opinions expressed in edi­
torial column are not necessarily endorsed 
by the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor of Engineering 
Robert C. King 
Staff
June Apel S. Marcinizyn
John Castellano D. Pettigrew, Jr.
Albert Kerstukos Pearl Pettola
Edward A. Macha Joseph M. Rymar
Gigantic United War 
Fund Drive Enlists 
School’s Cooperation
October 19th to November 6th 
has been designated as the time for 
the United War Fund Drive. The 
goal set this year for this annual 
Community Fund Campaign, for the 
Pittsburgh area, is $4,500,000. The 
Community Fund consists of 
eight-two member organizations. 
When you make your donation to 
this fund, you are giving, in part, 
to each one of these member agen­
cies, as about half of the amount 
asked for is to be set aside for their 
maintenance. The balance of the 
amount is to go to the United Serv­
ice Organization and the various 
war relief funds of our allies.
In order to attain this goal, it 
will be necessary that everyone give 
more generously than in the past, 
and we know that the students of 
Carnegie Tech will desire to do 
their share in this great endeavor. 
It is hoped that each student will 
find it possible to make a contribu­
tion to this worthy cause and will 
arrange to do so through Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
The Evening Student Council has 
volunteered to assist in soliciting 
subscriptions to the United War 
Fund and it has been arranged that 
a representative will address each 
class.
Theater Tickets Now!
Tickets are now available for the 
second production, “Heartbreak 
House,” presented by Day Students 
in the Little Theatre. It will run 
from Saturday, October 24th, 
throufih Saturday, October 31st. 
You may obtain a ticket upon pre­
sentation of your Registration Card.
Switch to66 Baffle Filter Thrills Smokers
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, 
AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New York—The scientific, absorbent filter has contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions of men anc women who have switched to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 “baffles” before reaching the mouth. Flakes and slugs are trapped; and the smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds its way through the filter.
