Junior Class Banquet 
“The Pines” 
Friday Evening-
Alumni Federation 
Dance 
Union April*!
VOL. XVI. NO. 27CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1922
ANNUAL JUNIOR 
BANQUET TO BE 
FRIDAY NIGHT
RULES CONCERNING CLASS 
BANQUETS COMPILED BY
STUDENT COUNCIL
The Pines to be Turned Over 
to Juniors. Special Cars Will 
Leave atDowntownStation. 
Class to Meet at 8 o’clock
THREE PROFS TO TALK
All is in readiness for the annual 
tliree-school banquet of the Junior 
Class of Carnegie Tech, on Friday 
night at the Pines.
The entire establishment of the 
Pines -will be turned over to the serv­
ice of the Juniors. This is an ideal 
place for the affair, as it is large, has 
quite a secluded atmosphere, and is 
far away from prying eyes.
The class will meet at eight p. m. 
at the Stanwix street station of the 
Butler and Harmony Lines, at Stan­
wix street and Penn avenue and take 
special cars out to the banquet hall.
The Novelty Orchestra will enter­
tain from the time all assemble until 
the time all depart, save for the time 
that the special talent that has been 
provided from the School, and also 
from the outside entertains the group. 
The music will also stop to give the 
guests of honor a space of time to say 
some words.
The guests of the evening are to 
consist of a professor from each of 
the three colleges. They are Profes­
sor J. R. Rittman of the Commercial 
Engineering Department of the Col­
lege of Enginering, Prof. C. J. Taylor 
of the P. & I. Department of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts and Mr. Pfouts of 
the Machine Production Department 
in the College of Industries.
Tickets for the banquet will have 
to be purchased by tomorrow noon, 
so that the exact number of plates 
can be prepared. Tickets are avail­
able from any of the Junior Section 
leaders, or any member of the Junior 
Class banquet committee at the cost 
of $3.50.
Dir. Mott Addresses 
Plebes at Assembly
Advises on Selection 
Engineering Course
of
In a speech to the Science Plebes, 
last Wednesday, Director Mott gave 
considerable good advice concern­
ing the selection of a course in En­
gineering. The customary assembly 
was omitted for this occasion, and 
Director Mott presided.
After some advance information 
concerning Poverty Day—which 
comes on April 26—was given by 
“Safety First." Dean Tarbell asked 
for assistance in determining a stu­
dent’s expense at ¡Carnegie Tech, 
and distributed blanks to be filled 
out with the desired figures. These 
will1 be used for the benefit of new 
students.
Dr. Thurstone of tlio Psychology 
Department, next outlined his work 
for determining a . student’s ability. 
He has already given psychological 
examinations to entering classes, 
and it is now his intention to quiz 
(Continued on Page Four.)
R.O.T.C. Gets New Radio Set
The Signal Corps: of the R. 0. T. 
C. announces the arrival of a radio 
transmitting set, S. C. R. No. 130, 
to have a range of over two hundred 
and fifty miles. This set will be 
put in operation soon under the di-
• rection of Captain Walker, and will 
use the new fan shape, V-type 
aerial, to be placed from Machinery 
Hall to the Science Building.
Another set whdch will soon be in 
use also, is a 200 watt C. W. trans­
mitting outfit, to be constructed by 
Messrs. Elliott, Kirkpatrick and 
Sleath, students of the Signal Corps. 
This set will be used not only by 
the Signal Corps, but also by the 
school.
All R. O. T. C. students are re­
quested to consult the combined for­
mation for the Engineer and Motor 
Transport Units in drill. These for­
mations are reported on the bulletin 
board, and should be examined at 
once.
The Signal iCorps will start their 
¦drill practice on April 4.
ARTS SOPHS TO GET
UNRULY FRESHMEN
Arts Plebes will do well to wfatch 
their step, for drastic action will be 
taken if regulations are not strictly 
observed. Penalties and the new 
ruling oC the Senate allowing hair­
cuts wave discussed at the meeting 
of the \ Regulations Committee on 
Thursday. While there will not be 
many hair cuts, there are certain 
Plebes who deserve them and the 
committee is going to present their 
cases to the Senate for approval, 
and, if possible, do the clipping at 
Assembly.
The preliminary report of Febru­
ary 2Sth was sent to the presidents 
of the Plebe and Sophomore classes 
in the three men’s colleges. As a re­
sult ot the views expressed by these 
classes the rules have been changed 
to conform as closely as possible with 
the majority of the sentiment. A list 
of these rules as they now read are 
as follows:
1. The banquet should be held on 
Friday or Saturday night preceding a 
holiday.
2. The Plebe banquet shall be held 
some time between the end of football 
season and the first. of the second 
semester.
3. The place of banquet and all ac­
tivities having to do with the banquet 
should be confined to a radius of fif­
teen (15) miles of the school.
4. No class officer shall be molest­
ed in any manner that will cause him 
to miss more than one day of classes.
5. No interference with registration 
cards.
G. No interference with organized 
recitation classes.
Respectfully submitted,
(S) W. R. MILLS.
DEBATERS PREPARE 
FOR TRIANGULAR
Sales Tax Question to be 
Discussed With W. & J.- 
W. V. U. on May 8
MID-WEST CLUB 
STAGES SMOKER 
SATURDAY NITE
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
WILL GIVE RECITAL IN
ARTS THEATER, APRIL 2
Play Given by Members of 
Association. Tilbrook and 
Batman Speak on Organiz­
ation of Sectional Clubs
LUNCHEON ON APRIL 1
The Debating Association of Car­
negie Tech met on Thursday even­
ing, March 23, at 7 p. m. Matters 
of importance were discussed and 
the teams gave their views and opin­
ions of the Pentagonal Debate of 
which they won two. The teams 
deserve a great deal of credit for 
their showing and in their presenta­
tion of argument.
The association is now preparing 
for a triangular debate with W. & J. 
and W. Va. Thisi debate will be 
held May 5 with the negative team 
traveling to Mest Virginia and the 
affirmatives meeting Washington and 
Jefferson here. The subject for the 
debate is Resolved: That Congress 
enaJct legislation providing for a 
sales tax similar to the Canadian 
tax.
PROF. DIBBLE WRITES 
PLUMBERS’ HANDBOOK
"Plumbers’ Handbook," a handy 
compact reference volume from the 
press of McGraw-Hill, which has 
jst made its appearanco, is edited 
by Samuel E. Dibble, head of the 
Heating, Ventilating and Sanitation 
Department of the College of Indus­
tries, and Includes among its con­
tributors five other Tech faculty 
members and a Pittsburgh metallur­
gical engineer, F. N. Speller. The 
faculty contributors are Robert B. 
Leighou, professor of chemistry; R.
B. Ambrose, assistant professor of 
power plant operation; H. S. Light- 
cap, assistant professor of mathe­
matics; Allen H. Blaisdell, assistant 
professor of mechanical engineering, 
and Harry R. Graham, instructor ih 
plumbing.
SCARAB ARCHITECTURAL
HONORARY INITIATION
The Tech chapter of tne Scarab 
Architectural fraternity initiated 
eight new members on Tuesday 
evening, March 21. Those who were 
initiated into membership are O. M. 
Olsen and G. N. Pauly of the Sen­
ior class; John J. Keil, W. A. 
Staples, E. W. Klee, E. O. Ander­
son, G. A. Brink and C. E. Landefeld 
of the Junior class.
The Scarab fraternity chooses its 
men each year from the Architect­
ural Department on merits of schol­
arship, personality and good fellow­
ship. The aim3 and ideals of the 
fraternity are to' promote higher 
scholarship and good fellowship 
amongst its members.
INTER-HONORARY DANCE TO 
BE HELD IN UNION APRIL 7
The smoker started off with a bang. 
Every one got the spirit when the six- 
piece orchestra rendered a few of 
their jazz selections, and immediately 
after the get-together music a fly 
swatting contest was staged. It was 
a hit and take affair and the referee, 
in order to keep the peace, called it 
a draw.
Professor Ely then gave some of 
his sleight of hand tricks that were 
beyond the eyes of those present. A 
number of song hits were sung by 
Emilio Strizzi which were received 
with evident enjoyment.
The climax of the entertainment 
was a play, “Love, the Locksmith,” 
written by Thomas Kennedy, one of 
the faculty members of the club. The 
actors were all members of the asso­
ciation and put the professional per­
formers to shame.
Eats, drinks and smokes were dis­
tributed with a will by the committee, 
and for once every one had plenty.
Mr. Tilbrook gave a short talk on 
“Organization” which was taken up 
by Mr. Batman, who spoke on the 
good such clubs as the Mid-West 
brought to the school and encouraged 
every one present to join, saying that 
(Continued on Page Four.)
C.T. FACULTY ADDRESS 
EDUCATIONAL BODY
Six Carnegie Tech faculty members 
read papers or lead discussions at 
the various section meetings in con­
junction with the general meeting 
of the Education Association of 
Western Pennsylvania at the Schen- 
ley High School last Saturday morn­
ing.
Mrs. Laura W. L. Scales, dean of 
women, reported to the advisers of 
girls and women section the recent 
Chicago conference of college and 
university deans of women. Miss 
Jane Fales, professor of costume 
economics, spoke to tlio home eco­
nomics section on developing a sen­
sible homemaker. Dr. W. V. Bing­
ham, director of the division of co­
operative research, read a paper to 
the research and measurements sec­
tion on ,;Some Recent Advances in 
Menial Measurement.” Charles R. 
Fettle, associate professor of geol­
ogy, read a paper to the biology sec­
tion on “The Geology of the Pitts­
burgh Region.” Glenn James, asso­
ciate professor of mathematics, road 
a paper to the mathematics section 
on "Tlio Relation of College Prepa­
ratory to Vocational Mathematics.” 
Norwood MacGllvary, associate pro­
fessor of painting and illustrating, 
discussed painting before the fine 
arts section.
Prof Virgin to Collect 
Data on Coal Mining
Plans are well under way today 
for the annual Inter-Honorary Fra­
ternity Dance, whichi will take place 
in the Carnegie Union Friday, April 
seventh.
A preliminary sale of tickets is 
now being carried on. The price of 
these tickets is one dollar, and the 
final cost will depend on the number 
of tickets sold, but it will not ex­
ceed two dollars.
Hughes’ Collegiate Six Orchestra 
has been engaged for the occasion, 
and as preparations are being made 
to insure a complete success of the 
affair, the ticket sale wilt be large.
The dance is given annually by 
the Honorary Fraternities at the 
school. This year it is under the 
charge of the Druids, the National 
Honorary Fraternity for Sophomores.
Prof. R. Z. Virgin of the Coal 
Mining Department ofCarnegie 
Tech, together with Prof. H. H. 
Stoek of Urbana, Illinois, and Prof. 
C. M. Young of Topeka. Kansas, 
have been asked to co-operate with 
the Special Committee on Coal Min­
ing Methods for the American Insti­
tute of Mining and Metallurgical En­
gineers of New York.
It is the intention of the commit­
tee to prepare an outline of coal 
mining, similar to that which has • 
been prepared for metal mining. 
Later on they will try to secure spe­
cial papers on various phases of 
coal mining, and also collect data 
on the labor and other costs requir­
ed for different mining conditions. 
Professor Virgin has consented tc 
serve with the committee.
COALITION DISCUSSED
AT ARTS JR. MEETING
The Department of Music will 
give a recital in HU© theater of the 
College ot Fine Arts, Sunday, April 
2, at 3:15 p. in.' Tickets will not 
be required for admission. The pro­
gram follows:
1. Beethoven. Violoncello Souata
Op G9
Allegro non troppo 
Charles C. Krane
2. Mozart. Symphony Concertnnte 
Raymond Dool, Adolph Herzberg
3. Giordani. Caro mio ben
Claire Trabert
4. Handel. Minuet
Popper. Tarantella 
Stewart Blackmore
5. Saint-Saëns. Rondo Capriccioso
Henry 1-Iary
6. Mendelssohn. Second Piano Trio
Allegro energico e con fucco 
Oscar L. Helfenbein, Max Silverman, 
Joseph Replogle 
Accompanists 
Alice Kirk, Dorothy Cummings, Oscar 
L. Ilejfenbein
PGH. ATTORNEY AT 
C. M. E. S. MEETING
Will Discuss Patent Laws. 
Good Program Including 
Four Movie Reels
The Carnegie Mechanical Engineer­
ing Society will hold one of Its most 
important meetings of the year to­
night in Room 104 Industries at 8 
o’clock. The speaker of the evening 
will be Mr. E. A. Lawrence, a patent 
attorney prominent in tlio Pittsburgh 
industrial district. Mr. Lawrence has 
had a long and wide experience In 
dealing with patent laws and his dis­
cussion will bring'out the features of 
the patent laws which every engineer 
should know. Actual practice cases 
will be cited in the course of the lec­
ture In order to illustrate the method 
of taking out a patent.
Many other matters of lnteresi are 
on the program for tonight. Four 
reels of pictures ! illustrating Indus­
trial projects will be shown and In­
teresting reports arc promised by va­
rious outstanding committees.
Radio Club to Hold Smoker 
And to Open Club Room
On March 22 the regular meotlng 
of the Radio Club was hold In tlio 
Tower Room in Machinory Hall. A 
short business mooting was held pre­
vious to the opening of the malq dis­
cussion of the evonlng. The club de­
cided to hold a smoker In commemor­
ation of the .opening of their club 
room in Henderson Hall, tho smokor 
to be held before Easter, If possible.
The main discussion of tho evonlng 
was conducted by Captain Walker, of 
the Signal Corps. Ills subjoct was 
“Aerial Calculations,” which ho de­
veloped in a vory logical and scientific 
manner. He discussed tho aerial 
from three standpoints: Inductance,
capacltanco and resistance.
Club room keys woro issued to tho 
members at this meeting.
PLEBE TRIALS DISCUSSED
AT ARTS ASSEMBLY
At the Arts Assembly last Wednes­
day the chief subject was the recom­
mendation of the y Student 'Senate, 
which was unanimously passed by the 
student body, to the effect that in 
cases where the jury of Plebe trials 
recommended haircuts for Plebes and 
the Senate approved them, the Plebe’s 
hair will be cut.
Another matter brought up by the 
Senate was the misuse of Arts Li­
brary books. There are books of con­
siderable value in the Arts collection, 
many of which cannot be replaced. 
Mr. Williard, president of the Senate, 
urged that students exercise proper 
care in the use of these books.
COLONEL BEGGER SPEAKS
AT INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
ARCHITECTS FIND PEN­
ITENTIARY INTERESTING
On Friday afternoon the Seniors 
of the Architectural Department 
made preliminary sketches for "A 
Penitentiary.” The final solutions 
are due May P» at 12 midnight. The 
Juniors were engaged in an Es­
quisse or 10-hour sketch for “A 
Loggia" as an architectural feature 
for a mansion.
Thursday at 1:00 p. m., the Jun­
iors of the College of Fine Arts met 
for the purpose of discussing the 
possible union of' the four classes 
of 1923.
The meeting was interesting 
throughout and after some discus­
sion on the question several resolu­
tions were passed. The expressed 
desire of the class to have this 
movement become a reality thereby 
creating a new spirit of friendship, 
also to remove the attitude of 
strangeness and misunderstanding 
between the various colleges.
This condition shall not interfere 
with the internal functioning of the 
classes of the separate colleges. In 
the event of a joint meeting one of 
the *clas3 presidents will preside and 
if any officers are necessary for the 
'Ijoint organization these offices shall 
rotate between the various colleges 
each year.
There is no doubt that the move­
ment will succeed as the Juniors of 
the various colleges are heartily in 
favor of it.
An outline of the work being done 
by the Citizens.’ Committee on City.' 
Planning was given by Colonel Beg- 
ger, a member of that committee, 
before the Industries Assembly last 
Wednesday. Colonel Begger began 
his speech by showing the various 
factors which enter into the making 
of a good city. He then traced the 
development of Pittsburgh from its 
beginning to the present and showed 
why the city is in its present con­
dition.
Continuing, Colonel Begger gave 
a short resume of the plans of the 
committee and explained how Pitts­
burgh would be benefited if the pro­
gram is carried out. Some of thG 
provisions In the plan include regu­
lations for recreational grounds, 
widening and lengthening of streets, 
bettor electric car service, better 
transportation facilities, restrictions 
on height and location of buildings 
and the districting and zoning of 
unoccupied areas.
Another very Interesting and 
amusing event of tho assembly was 
the dramatic attempt of two Plebes 
who were being punished for dlso- 
Ibeying regulations. They gave a 
one-act reproduction of the play 
“Romeo and Juliet." Juliet received 
many compliments in the form of 
cream puffs hurled from the audi- 
enuce while Romep concluded the 
scene by doing th[H frog walk out 
of the assembly hall.
SCHEDULE FOR 
SUMMER WORK 
IS COMPLETED
Teachers’ Training, and Un1- 
dergraduate Courses Will 
be Offered in Four, Six and 
Eight Week Periods
FEES REASONABLE
Plans for the coming (Summer Ses­
sion are practically complete. All 
courses in the Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College and In the Collego of 
Engineering and the great majority 
of courses In the College of Industries 
will run eight weeks, June 26 to Au­
gust IS. All the courses in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts and the special 
work for teachers of manual training, 
given in the College of Industries, 
will cover a six weeks’ period, July 5 
to August 12. The several courses iu 
surveying are scheduled as follows: 
(1) Six weeks’ course for Sophomore 
Civils and Freshman Miners, June 19 
to July 29; (2) Three weeks’ course 
for Sophomores In Building Construc­
tion, June 19 to July S; (3) Two 
weeks’ course for Sophomore Eloctri- 
cals, Mechanicals and Metallurgicals, 
August 30 to September 13. A short 
Intensive course in coal mining, given 
in co-operation with tho Unltod States 
Bureau of Mines, will extend from 
June 2(5 to July 22.
Most of the summer courses fall 
Into two groups. (1) Those arranged 
primarily for undergraduate students 
of tho Institute and (2) those planned 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
MAY 12 AT WM. PENN, 
DEFINITE FOR SOPH HOP,
At tho mooting of tho Sophomoro 
class of tho Sclonco School, last 
Thursday, March 23, It was definitely 
announced that tho Annual Sopho* 
more Hop will bo hold this year In 
the ballroom of tho Wlllllain Penn 
Hotel. Tho date 1» Friday, May 12. 
Eve Hughes and his 'Colloglato Six 
have been ongageu to furnish tho 
music.
The assessment will bo $2.50 por 
couple, with preliminary tickets out 
right aftor tho Easter vacation. This 
Is tho biggosi danoo of tho Sopho- 
mtiro yoar, and ovory person who 
attends Is assured of tho time ot 
his life. Those eligible to attond 
includo Sophomoros, Juniors and 
Seniors. Ono of tho best floors In 
tho city, and tho music of tho Col- 
loglate Six aro two of tho best rea­
sons why no ono who Is ollglblo 
should miss this dance.
AVO CLUB TO HOLD DANCE
IN UNION FRIDAY, MARCH 31
On Friday night, March 31, tho Avo 
Club will hold a dance lu tho Carnoglo 
Union. Some novel oloctrlcal docora- 
tlons will be ono of the features of 
tho . evonlng. The Tartan Entórtala- 
era will furnish tho music.
Tech Co-eds From Ohio 
Form Girls' Buckeye Club
The girls from tho State of Ohio 
organized a Girls' Buckeye Club sim­
ilar to the Men’s Buckeye Club last 
Thursday, March) 16. Officers were 
elected and they are planning on 
different affairs which will strength­
en their organization as a Junior 
Clan.
The girls from oither sections of 
the country are urged to organize 
Junior Clans and co-operate with 
the other ones in their purposes.
CHESS CLUB MEETING TONIGHT
A meeting of the Chess Club will 
be held tonight at 7:30 in the Y. 
M. C. A. club room.
All men entered in the Chess 
tournament who have not yet played 
off all the games on, their schedules 
are expected to do so before the 
meeting tonight.
It is especially important that 
these games be played off on time, 
because a second tournament is to 
be arranged between the two high 
men in each group.
Prizes will1 be awarded to the win­
ners of this second tournament.
The team which is to represent 
Carnegie In this pastime will not 
necessarily be picked from the win­
ners of tills tournament, but the abil­
ity shown will be an Important fac­
tor In choosing tho men.
JR. BANQUET DISCUS8ED
AT INDU8TRJE8 MEETING
Announcement and discussion of 
tho features of tlio coining Juulor 
Class Banquet were In order at a 
short meeting of the Industries Jun­
iors held just after assembly last 
Wednesday. The proposed combin­
ing of the four schools Junior Class­
es was also discussed, and Dutch 
Zelt was elected to represent the 
Industries Junior Class in a com­
mittee which will meet to consider 
the merger.
SCIENTIFIC DEVELOP­
MENTS DISCUSSED AT
PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
Tho meetings of tho Physics Collo­
quium during the month of March 
have been of great interest. On 
Thursday, March 1(3, Dr. J. B. Nathau- 
son gave an account of a method used 
by Hull of the General Electric Com­
pany to control thermionic currents 
by means of a magnetic Held. The 
new device is called a “magnetron.” 
It constitutes the last ot a quartet of 
thermionic vacuum tubes, tho other 
three being known as tho kenetroll, 
tho pliotron and tho dynatron rospec- 
tiveyl.
On Thursday, March 23, Professor 
IT. S. Iiowor gave an account of somo 
of Foote and Mohler’s recent work on 
soft X-Rays from electric arcs. This 
work Is highly interesting as covering 
a range of wave lengths from about 
25 Angstrom units to 700 Angstrom 
units. These wave lengths aro long­
er than those usually measured by X- 
Ray spectrometers, and are shorter 
than usually measured by gratings or 
prisms. Mr. R. H. Humbert gave an 
Interesting account of Coblentz’s work 
on the. measurement of stellar radia­
tion. A vacuum thermocouple Is used 
(Continued on Page Four.)
OHIO STUDENTS PLAN 
BUCKEYE BANQUET
Prominent Buckeye State 
Men Included on List 
of Speakers
The men and women from Ohio aro 
to hold a big get-together soon and 
plans are well under way. It is plan­
ned to have several noted men of Car­
negie spoalc, Including Socrotary 
Baker, Mr. Pfouts, a woll known 
Ohionn, and Mr. Batman.
Tho object of tho bnnquot 1V to 
bring tho studonts from Ohio together 
and to have them carry back to their 
rospoctlvo cities tho latoat nows of 
tho campus.
Tho Buclceyo Club has boon very 
activo around school this yoar mid It 
Is hoped that all Ohioans will turn 
out to tho mootings. Notices of thoso I 
will bo posted around tho campus.
PRELIM. PLANS 
FOR NEW GYM 
ARE APPROVED
Will be Gymnasiums for Both 
Boys and Girls. Big Swim­
ming Pool in Rear of the 
Gym. Rooms for Offices
SKETCHES PREPARED
SECOND ISSUE OF SHILLING 
APPEARS ON CAMPUS
Tho Shilling mudo Its appearanco 
on tho campus again yostorday. This 
publication is tho socoud this year. 
Tho Shilling Board has aimed In 
this Issuo to produco moro material, 
woll-balnncod and of general Interest. 
It Is tho board's unanimous desire 
that this publication will not havo 
an "chilling” an effect as our more 
humorous contonipornrloa pronounce 
it,
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT
OFFERED TO STUDENT8
On Wodnonday afternoon at 4:30 
p. m., In Room 104, Collego of In­
dustries, tiioro will ho hold a dem­
onstration and an explanation of tho 
products put out by tho Woar-Evor 
Aluminum Company, Now Kensing­
ton, Pa. Mr. P. J. Jottor will have 
charge of tills mooting and will bo 
vory glad on that day to Interview 
studonts who dosire work during 
tho tmmmor months. This company 
has done a wonderful work for col- 
logo studonts. During the summer 
of 1921 thoro wero 918 college men 
working for them who averaged 
$12.72 per eight hour day or $1.59 
an hour. This in Itself Is a sample 
of what students can do If they are 
willing to work and work hard. The 
Employment Bureau is anxious to 
have a large attendance at this meet­
ing. For further Information please 
see Mr. J. W. Batman.
ART SUPERINTENDENT
ADDRESSES ART DEPT.
Last Friday afternoon Mr. C. Val­
entine Kirby, superintendent of Art 
Education in Pennsylvania,, spoke to 
the students of the Applied Arts and 
Painting and Illustrating Depart­
ments. ' Mr. Kirby made a special 
trip hiere from Harrisburg to put 
before the students the urgent need 
for art teachers and art supervisors. 
He briefly outlined the growth of 
art education In tho United States 
and pointed out the necessity for 
everybody to have some knowledge 
and feeling for things of beauty, 
harmonious color combinations, 
agreeable surroundings, attractive 
business displays and so forth. Un­
der a recent act of tho Pennsyl­
vania Legislature, art 1* a required 
subjoct In all schools of tho State. 
This alono Improves the field for 
teaching of art, and heretofore It 
has never been crowded so that op­
portunities aro unlimited, Besides 
Just the teaching of art In public 
schools there is great nood for In­
structor!. In designing, craftsman­
ship, commercial art and tho fine 
arts.
The ono fact Mr. Kirby brought 
out, was the opinion ot many of 
the great manufacture™ and employ­
ers that the chief lack of studonts 
and teachers of today Is that- of 
thoroughness; which is the reason 
so many things of beauty and real 
fineness have to be imported from 
foreign lands.
Carnegio Tech’s new gym, upon 
which work will begin soon, has ten 
tatlvoly been decided upon. Tho 
plans have been considered, the gen­
eral layout appearing In tills issue. 
The gynr will bo located on tho cor­
ner of Woodlawn avenue, and tho 
road leading to Scheniey Park in 
the roar of Design 'School1.
There will bo four main entrances 
to tho gym, ono at each corner. On 
the first floor, that side of the build­
ing facing Woodlawn avenue, will bo 
used for the Girls’ Gymnasium. This 
room will bo 40 by 70 feet, amplo 
space being provided for lookers and 
apparatus.
Immediately back of this room 
and separated by sliding doors, runs 
a long hall. On tho loft hand side, 
facing tho park, are located rooms 
which will bo constructed so< as to 
bo suitable for various games, such 
as hand ball, soccer, etc. On tho 
right hand side, a largo locker room 
will bo provided for tho men. Rooms 
for offlcos, trophies and various 
other purposes will also bo placed 
In a convenient position on this first 
floor.
Innnodlnloly back of tho gym, next 
to tho Design School, will bo located 
tho s'wlmmlng pool. Tho pool will 
occupy a space of 40 by 70 feet, ex­
tending longthwlso from tho roar 
of tho gym. A glass roof will covor 
tho entire spaco of tho pool, provid­
ing appropriate lighting at' all times 
of I ho day.
Tho entire socond floor will bo oc­
cupied by a largo gymnasium, 90 
by 200 foot. This will provide am­
plo room for all our uiihlcot hall 
games, with sufficient soatlng capac­
ity for tho spectators.
Tech Needs Song Book. 
Students, Write For It!
Write at Least One Song' and 
Make This a Reality
Tills has boon tho subjoct of much 
talk and writing. Sovoral pleas havo 
boon made throuKh Tho Tartan for 
contributions to It. So far little re­
sponse has boon mudo.
The nood of such a book In iinfluos- 
llonod by ovory man and woman who 
wants our college to rank among tho 
best in tho land.
Carnoglo already holds a most en­
viable position among tho collagen of 
our country In athletics, scholarship, 
all typos' of activities and i’lOPJ Up 
to now wo havo boon talking Car­
noglo praises, why not also SINO 
them?
Our campus publications givo amplo 
proof that thoro aro many students 
hero who could give to Tech a real 
song If they only took tho time.
Tills book certainly Is woll worth 
supporting not only for the prize of­
fered, but Just Imagine for a moment, 
having your namo appearing as tho 
author of a rousing song which would 
(Continued on Pago 4)
Actions by Student Council
The Student Council took tho fol­
lowing action In regard to social 
events held on the campus: Commit­
tees of all organizations for any so­
cial event supported by the students 
of more than one division shall be re­
quired to submit a financial report to 
the Recorder of the Student Council 
within ten days from the date of the 
event. The Recorder of the Council 
will file the report or bring to the at­
tention ot the Student Council any 
question raised by the report. The 
purpose of tills action is to keep a 
record of these events so that any 
committee wishing to hold a similar 
event In the future will have some In­
formation and data on which to work.
The plans of the Senior Privilege 
Committee for a Senior fence were 
approved by the Council. The plans 
will be submitted to the various Se­
nior classes for approval. The feneo 
Is to be thirty feet long, built In six- 
foot sections. Tlio site 1s undecided 
as yet but will possibly be located be­
tween Science School and the walk 
leading to Machinory Hall on Wood­
lawn avenue. Dedicatory exercises 
will ho hold during Commencement 
week, It will bo oroctcd as soon as 
tho trustees docldo definitely on tho 
location. Tho Student Council will 
pay for tho fence.
P. J. Unzlckor submitted a tentative 
program for Campus Week.
Council passed a resolution—the 
same that Is to. bo acted upon by 
other campus organizations—putting 
Itself on record as bolng opposed to 
cribbing in any form, as cribbing Is 
contrary to the purposes for which 
higher education is organized.
Some discussion was had on the 
proposed uniform voting regulations 
for the four schools. The final report 
will be submitted at the next meeting.
4

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1922
%\\t Carnegie ISartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie InBtltute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In the PoHto/Uce of Pittsburgh OL second-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLUK .......................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Hazol 9398
WILLIAM It. MILLS ................................................................... BuBlnGSB MiuiugorTelephone, Scheniey 2053-11
VIC. II. STHOMQUIST ................................................................ Mamtglng Editor
Telephone, Hlland 858
..X.IXN V. LEWIS ....................................................................... Associate EditorTelopJione, Sehonloy 9079
11. J. WHITEHEAD ..................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone, Scheniey 9070
0&WARD A. UKAND ............................................................................. Nowii Editor
Teloj)hone, Scheniey 9070
II. F. SIMPSON .................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Tolephono, Schonley 9070
It. H. OUYTON.................................................................................... Photographer
o. A. DICKMAN ........................................................................Exchange Editor
31. j). SONNEMANN .............................................................. Advertising Manager
Tolephono. Scheniey 9211
E, L. REILLY .......................................................................... Circulation Manager
" EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Gladys Bogne, M. 'Schumacher, H. IT. Dieter, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
V. O. MacKonsiie, H. H. Lofliowlt'/-, 11, H. Wilson, W. .1. Bolton, L, Hertz,man, 
E*. J.' MauBt, R. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. Dowhob, W. Q. Sullivan, F. C. 
Smltl), L. Byorly.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
H. H. Wilson, H. .7. McCormick. J. A. Berno, L. D. 27V.CAOVAR
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. M. Cooper, E. Soworn, W. B. Cunningham; C. C. Kaltenhauser, .T. C. 
Major, J'1. H. Allison, A. ID. Young, W. L. Miller, L, M. Landis, P. JP. Schuclcor 
and IT. J. Dompsoy.
The Editor-In-Chief .V reBponBlble for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcome» all communications of student interest. If Bigned, 
signature will bo withheld If doslred. All nows items must be in tho student 
jiost oiiice before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan OlIIco—Room 5-A, Industrlos Building. Oillco hours—Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
WATCH YOUR VOTE AND VOTE STRAIGHT
The average American does not take the interest’ he should in 
public affairs, public offices and men •who are elected to hold such 
offices. The student body of Carnegie Tech. runs true to form. In 
the last few elections held in Science School not enough votes were 
cast to elect any of the candidates. And besides that, and this is the 
disgraceful part, the ballot Avas stuffed.
Once more we must say tlmt such things are not characteristic 
of our student body. It may be the policy of sotae individual or 
some small group of individuals, but of the majority of the men and 
women at-Carnegie Tech it is not the policy. Although it is looked 
on lightly in circles other than ours, we can not tolerate such actions 
at this school, nor can we allow such individuals to remain among us. 
If allowed to operate successfully unproven and incapable men would 
be found directing student activities and in time distrust would 
spread. This would lie disastrous to activities and to our school.
We hope that this will be a warning to those who have and those 
who might indulge in such practices as stuffing the ballot. It may 
flecm easy to get away with and possibly you may think that nothing 
will come of it. But the unexpected will happen and the man may 
not have the chance to repeat his act, not at this school at least.
Calendar of Student Events
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY MARCH 2i). 30. ¡1.1, APRIL 1
Pi'nmn—“tlrcut OalÉjrino”..........................................Arts Theater, 8 :15
FRIDAY, MARCH 111.
.llnmm—“Clrcnl; gathermo” (Alumni).......................Arts Theater, 4:00
.l.limqupt— Junior Classen............................................................ The Pines
*........ À v'» < :lult...................................................(larnegie I'iiion, 8:S0
Danse -Alumni Foclomtion......................... Arts Foyer 8'30SATURDAY, Al’RII. 1
l’iirty- Munis Deportinoli!.......:............................................ Music Rooms
MONDAY, APRIL :i
(-¡Impel..........................................................................Arts Theater, 12:50
FRIDAY, APRIL 7
Dimco Intor-llonovary Frutornitiiis.......................OnÉfoRio Union 8-110
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, APRII, (I, 7, fi
Drama—Night School................................................Avis Thou lor. 8:15
SATURDAY, APRII, fi 
Illuminili WostminBtor vs, Cnriiòffio ...................... Itero
WEDNSAY,YSNTH,,DD, 'J 8’T0 'n,HSDAy’ Àran7jT(x»dSdvo)
MONDAY, APRII, 17
Ohapol ... ......................................................Art* Theater; 12:50
Smokor—Niglit Studonts.........................................Carnegie Union, 8:00
IBRIDAY, APRII'/ 21 
............................................................. ....................Cnrnogio Union, 8:90
8TUDENT GOVERNMENT
Within the next month we will he 
in the proceBB of the organization of 
our student governing bodies for next 
year. If wo are to make any progress 
in the organization of our student 
government wo should plan during 
the next month the form which that 
organization should take.
The control of our student activ­
ities Is vested at present In two 
bodies, the Student Council, and tho 
Student Activities Board. Undor’Hhe 
present constitutions of those bodies 
their dutloB and control conflict and 
overlap. In only onewof those bodlos, 
tho Student Activities Board, is any 
provision made for continuity of 
members from year to year, which is 
necessary to secure leaders of th0B0 
bodies versed in tho work and pre­
vious policies of the councils.
Wo cannot, in tho limited time 
available, create a new system of stu­
dent government which will revolu­
tionize completely our present organ­
ization. And still we must realize that 
only through such a complete reor­
ganization can wo secure a student 
government which will co-ordinate 
logically tho various phases of our 
campus activities and give us a per­
manent system for the future.
Changes in the present system at 
this time must be looked upon as tem­
porary, and only for the purpose of 
giving us a more efficient control with 
which to create and inaugurate a per­
manent system.
Changes necessary at this time in­
clude:
1. Rewriting the constitutions of 
both bodies to state definitely the 
duties and powers of each organiza­
tion, and the proper relation between 
the two.
2. Changes in the membership on 
both of the bodies to secure better 
representation and continuity of some 
of the members from year to year.
If the experiences of this year’s 
council are to be used to advantage 
by the council of next year, it is my 
belief that such action as mentioned 
above should be taken immediately. 
This should give us a more efficient 
tool with which to shape the future 
organization and co-relation of various 
-campus activities.
JOHN G. BYLER.
ROAMIN’S
ARTS FACULTY OBJECTS
TO GYMNASIUM SITE
NOTICES
STUDENT NOTICES
ECG Friday evening, March 31, at 
8:30 p. m., there is to bo a meeting 
in Room 104,' Industries,- un­
der tho auspices of tho C. I. T. 
Generators at which time Mr. F. R. 
Phillips, Superintendent of Equip­
ment of tho Pittsburgh Railways 
Company, will give a lecture on D. 
C. machiuery. All Carnegie Tech 
students and faculty members are 
cordially invited to attend.
Professor Simpson’s Discussion 
Croup will moot today at 12:30 at 
the Y Club Room In discussion to 
talk on old Biblical manuscripts.
All Mid-Western students aro 
asked to be out for luncheon Satur­
day at; 1:00 o’clock in the King Ed­
ward' Apartments Dining Room, cor­
ner Neville and Bayard streets.
Meeting of tho Chess Club tonight 
in Room 124-C. The room directly 
opposite the Y Club Room, at 7:30.
The Discussion Group under Al
Science School Elections
Last Wednesday an election of 
officers of the Science Plebe class 
was held.
The following men were elected:
Secretary, Slye; trensurer, Matter.
A president was not elected duo 
to no nominee securing a majority 
of ballots. Moessner and James re­
ceived the highest number of votes. 
Ono of thoso men will bo choson by 
IbaJlot today.
Each Freshman should nil out ono 
of the following ballots and leave it. 
in tho box jit tho Plobo ontranoo.
Mark your choice with an X 
FOR PLEBES ONLY:
PLEBE CLASS PRESIDENT
I
T. .P. Moessner 
Chas. James
I I
FOR SENIORS, JUNIORS Aî 
SOPHOMORES:
JUNIOR REPRESENTATIVE, 
S. A. B.
'S. E. Brillhartfl.
C. W. Jeffers
Maya, for tho Plobon, will moot to­
night at 7:110, In tho Y. Club Room.
Y. M. C. A. ACTIVITIES
The Lenten services at “Y" Chap­
el lilave shown a gratifying increase 
in attendance. On next Monday the 
last of these services for this year 
will be liejd. The "Y” has been ex­
ceedingly fortunate in obtaining 
such capable and noted sptakers as 
Dr. Van Etfen, Dr. Robertson and 
Dr. Beetham. These men have 
brought messages of great import­
ance, and this last service will be 
provided 'with an equally good speak­
er. Come and make it a record- 
breaking meeting.
Come to the Swim.
Now that the weather is getting 
so warn, an hour or so spent in an 
invigorating swim should be wel­
come. • Tho usual opportunity is 
open to all Toch men ovory Wednes­
day ovoning at 7: SO. Attendance at 
tbls event has been steadily Increas­
ing, hut. there Is always room for 
more. Don't fail to give it a try, 
and como again.
CAMPUS WEEK
is COMING
PREPARE!- -Send Your Ideas 
and Suggestions to the Committee 
Cy Unzicker, Tech P. O.
Helping the Committee You 
Aid Your Alma Mater
The Chairman,
Gymnasium Committee of the Board 
of Trustees, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology:
Sir:
Representing the Faculty of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, we bog to submit the 
following formal protest against the 
selection of the site for tho now gym­
nasium, as reported in the press. At 
our instanco, Director Bossango has 
written on this subject under dates of 
December Oth and 12th, 1921, and on 
Docembor 15thi we personally appear­
ed before your committee und stated 
tho reasons for our bollof that the 
slto selected was an unfortunato one; 
at that time we wore assured by 
your commlttoo that tho matter of the 
Site would bo given further study, 
and that wo would bo Informed of the 
results; we have hoard nothing fur 
ther from your committee, but wo 
learn from tho public proas that; tho 
slto just oast of tho Arts Building 
has boon choson, Wo also loarn, un­
officially, that the argument for tho 
slto is founded purely on expediency 
In tlio morn economical founclatlonlng 
of tho building.
Wo aro Just as dooply Interested in 
tho prompt erection and success of 
tho new gymnasium as any of tho 
faculties and nothing is further from 
our thought than to hinder tho con­
summation of. a work which has long 
boon needed.
Wo fool, however, that In tho pres­
ent plan tho expediency and oconomy 
of the foundations on this site is 
bringing your committee into a grave 
¡error. At. a time when Princeton, Cor­
nell and Yale are taking every ad­
vantage of their extensive sites to en­
hance their groups by careful plan­
ning toward the most ideal results, 
Carneglo Tech, with its limited site, 
should make the most definite efforts 
toward the best possible campus. The 
site is illogical for a gymnasium in 
relation to the plan of the campus as 
a whole, and inconvenient to the Ath­
letic Field, where we hope to see an 
important stadium erected in the near 
future. The Athletic Field is really 
a great outdoor gymnasium and it is 
absurd to separate it from the indoor 
gymnasium. The closest proximity 
between these two is everywhere rec­
ognized as the best plan and we see 
no reason why Carnegie Institute of 
Technology should have less than the 
best'.
The present plan is unfortunate, 
not to say objectionable, to the Mar­
garet Morrison Carnegie College, and 
the protest of their director has been 
filed with your committee. It is fatal 
to the future development of the 
building of the College of Fine Arts. 
It. will produce a huddled and un­
beautiful group of buildings. It will 
leave us with a, future problem of 
wrecking and reconstruction when the 
stadium is finally planned.
1 In view of those considerations, we 
fool that a protest must bo mado at 
this tlmo, Wo are all dooply and vital­
ly eoncornod with the future of tho 
Carnoglo Instltuto of Technology. Wo 
cannot, therefore, accept, tho decision 
of your committee in silonoo nor lot 
pass without; protest a. plan which 
will Inevitably fall to glvo to Car­
negie Institute of Technology tho host 
plan that can bo devised on which to 
build Its futuro.
Respectfully submitted,
(Signed) By the Director and Fac­
ulty of tho College of Fine Arts. 
March 9th, 1922,
Student Discourtesies.
Impetuous. Unthinking. Discourte­
ous. Lack of respect for old age. 
These and a host of others. Are the 
present day. Phrases. Applied to the 
youth. Of our country. And often the 
college men. In particular. Against 
such charges. We militate. Especial­
ly here at Carnegie. Because we 
think. Our daily routine. Is sufficient 
refutation. But stop for a moment. 
And think of how. Those impressions 
get around. The observing visitor. 
Sees us not at work. With our daily 
problems. Reports and whatnot. Till 
the wee small hours of morn. But 
only for a moment. At General Assem­
bly of Chapel. And there he gets his 
impression. One cannot help. But no­
tice. The growing tendency and creep­
ing in. Of little acts of discourtesy. 
Alibied best as forgetfulness. Try to 
remember you are scrutinized and 
judged. By your conduct in those few 
moments. Don’t let the relaxation. 
Caiise any one vexation. Obliterate 
the need for excuses. By those who 
are host. To our honored visitors. 
Conduct yourself like college men. 
And relax when you won’t be dis­
courteous.
Roamer was glad. To hear the 
news. That the Senior Fence. Is prom­
ised and soon 1 to be realized. We 
shall revel in this. A new little fad. 
Which will make the place more col­
legiate. But from D. A. N., of Science, 
10. Comes a “spontaneous outburst 
of irony.” Summed up best in his own 
four words. “Good Lord! What’s 
Next.” Now there’s a piece. Of con­
structive (?) criticism. That we just 
delight (?) in getting. Listen here D. 
A. N. What do you remember most. 
Of your college days. At Carnegie. 
The formula you proved. On the third 
of March. Or the first day you. 
Walked down the science ramp. When 
you became. A lordly Soph? Why con­
demn. A modest start. Let’s see how 
tilings develop. When a new art 
arises. You do not upbraid it. But you 
wait and watch. How it will develop. 
We've bothered too long. About 
points of quality. And forgotten the 
things. That make college life inter­
esting.
The post script to the letter. Pre­
sents a problem. For a new commit­
tee. "How many points under the new 
point system does it count if a Senior 
sits on the new fence every night?” 
I would solve that with the answer. 
It all depends. Upon whether or not. 
She’s blonde or brunette. D. A. N. 
probably has ii better. Solution. 
Among his chemistry. Notes.^
Wbat next? Sure, here’s one: The 
debaters came back. From Geneva. 
O how they rang. That old college 
bell. When the visitors. Had been 
defeated. It is a time old. Custom. 
Among regular colleges. To proclaim. 
Tho news of victory. Other than 
through the Weekly. Why not some­
thing. On the campus. To proclaim 
a victory for Carnegie. To remind the 
laggard. Or greasy grind. That he’d 
missed the treat of his life. To remind 
tho one wild. Doesn’t care. That a 
General Assembly. Is being held. 
Across tho Schonley Bridge. Or of 
Chapel in the Arts. Or would that ap­
peal. To our staid and technical 
alumni. As another pidce of frivolity.
ROAMER.
M. M. C. NEWS
M. M. ASSEMBLY
The girls in Margaret Morrison 
Assembly last Wednesday were very 
much pleased to have Dean Breed 
talk to us again. After a long 
period of illness she has returned
to us and we hope will be with us 
more often from now on. She told
of her experiences in the East and
suggested to us a possible topic 
for thought, "The Degradation of 
Democratic Taste.” Perhaps soon 
she will give us some of her own 
ideas on that subject.
The assembly was also honored
1»' the presence of the Tartan Enter­
tainers. They rendered several se­
lections and it was hard to let them 
stop, but the 'beanery was calling 
even above our applause. There is, 
however, a very grave mistake be­
ing made over there in Industries 
School. Those Entertainers have 
[been taught that the Aim a Mater 
was not what it is. At least when 
asked to play it they played "Dear 
Old Tech.” Perhaps M. M. is dis­
illusioned Instead.
COSTUME PARTY
A kid party! Imagine our Cos­
tume Department dressed up as 
"little” kids, but so they were, and 
they had a most hilarious time. The 
Seniors even forgot their dignity 
and the Sophomores were themselves 
again.
Oakland Community House
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings.
“Just visit.”
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes........:....................10:00 A. M.
Quiet......................................Sunday afternoon
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young people’s meeting...........5:30-7:30 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time.
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS
Y. W. C. A. PARTY
The Y. W. C. A. has for its guests 
this afternoon the Y. W. girls of 
Pitt and P. C. W. NoUilng more 
need be said. You will all be there, 
at 4:30 in the Rec. Hall.
GET-TOGETHER SMOKER OF 
MINERS AND METALLURGICAL 
HELD SATURDAY EVENING
Miss Bowman, our W. C. A, 
faculty advisor, is ill at her home. 
The Y. W. girls all join in wish­
ing her a better day coming.
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME 
fOOD
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
MISS O’LEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladies’ and Men’s Clothes. 
Call Scheniey 389.
3933 FORBES STREET
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT AND 
' LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable
prices. 
3719 Forbes St.Oakland
INDUSTRIES STUDENT
OPENS ART STORE IN
OAKLAND DISTRICT
Mr. Jadeja, a student in Indus­
tries has made arrangements to 
open an Oriental Art Store in Oak­
land, to meet the increasing need 
and demand for art goods. He has 
traveled more than 22,000 miles dur­
ing the last summer vacation for 
the purpose of getting art goods 
from the Orient.
He invites' all who have an artistic 
taste to visit "The Orient Art 
Store” at Fifth avenue and Atwood 
street. The store will open for busi­
ness April 1.
SCIENCE SOPHS GIVE
TEA DANCE IN UNION
Last Thursday afternoon the Soph­
omores of the Science School gave 
a tea dance in honor of the Margaret 
Morrison Sophomores. The Sopho­
mores of tho other schools and the 
Margaret Morrison Freshmen were 
tine guests of the occadion.
About one hundred and fifty cou­
ples danced to the music furnished 
by four members of the 'Collegiate 
Six, whoso part in making the af­
fair a succes® cannot be over-esti­
mated. The class has made plans 
for several more of these sociable 
aftornoon affairs In the future.
"DOLLY JORDAN” CRITICISM
On Saturday night the alumni and 
students togothor with tho faculty of 
tlvo Mining and Metallurgical Engi- 
noorlng departments' hold a smolcor in 
tho faculty club rooms. About thlrty- 
11 vo alumni wore present.
Prof. S. P. Ely gave some of his 
popular Hloight of hand tricks. Re­
freshments were served and all de­
parted with a closor fooling existing 
botwoon alumni and studonts.
JUNIOR CLASS HOLDS
TEA DANCE IN UNION
The tea dance held in the Union 
last Monday by the Junior classes 
of the four-scliools was a real suc­
cess. The attendance was smaller 
than usual but wasi compensated for 
by the pep of those present.
1 ' v
Plebe regulations are a necessity 
for any school. We all admit this 
fact, even the ones most concerned, 
the Plebes themselves. Without these 
regulations the Freshman does not 
learn the traditions of our school, 
does not experience the difficulties 
that other men who have gone before 
him have felt.
There has been much feeling that 
Plebe regulations have not meant as 
much this year as they should mean. 
Upper classmen have complained that 
many of the Plebes are getting away 
without any regulations. The blame, 
of course, falls on the responsible 
party, the iSophomores. That the 
Sophomores have not been strict 
enough is true. Part of the blame 
rests on the Sophomores, and part 
on the upper classmen.
There certainly has not been 
enough co-operation upon the part 
of upper classmen. This has been 
shown in a number of cases, and has 
become consistently more prominent. 
Tiie culmination of this fault was re­
cently reached when the regulations 
committee of tho College of Science 
and Engineering formally decided 
upon a haircut for certain unruly 
Plebes, who were boasting of their 
conduct, Tho case came boforo the 
Sonat.o, and was so strongly opposed 
by the uppor classmen, that the de­
fault lug Plobos considered them solves 
justified in their disregard of Plebe 
regulations. Such conditions aro vory 
discouraging to thoso in whose charge 
tho regulations aro kept.
In tho Drama Department, uppor 
classmen oponly protect tho Plebes 
in their department who have broken 
regulations. Those conditions certain­
ly must bo altered. Without the 
proper co-operation from the upper 
classmen our Plebe regulations will 
have lost all their value, and will in 
time be considered a joke in all four 
schools.
Baby—I want my bottle.
Mother—Shui up; you sound like 
your father.
Owing to the limited space the 
"Arts Theater” criticism on Dolly 
Jorden” was held over. The editors 
suggest tlmt these articles be shorter 
to Insure publication.
THE CAPITOL BUILDING
BUENOS AIRES. ARGENTINA
Most of the famous buildinp.s of the world 
arc equipped with Otis Elevators.
I
F architecture be “frozen music” this is 
indeed a symphony in stone! ' Certainly it 
is one of the most beautiful buildings in South 
America. And quite naturally it is equipped 
with Otis Elevators.
The aim of the Otis organization is a world 
scrvice in vertical transportation. No country 
is “foreign” in this respect. If there be any 
demand from any race in any country to build 
upward—one of the sure signs of advancing 
civilization—the Otis institution is ready to fill
It is a unique position for one firm to hold in 
any industry; to have been the first in the field, 
to have made practically all the improvements 
in the conception and mechanism of vertical 
transportation and to maintain a leadership that 
lias never been seriously challenged even in this 
day of industrial competition.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Ofiiccs in all Principal Cities of the World
%\ t\Sc\eerc\S—
%
HEN you come to apply for that 
job let's hope the chief will say:
He’s a hard worker—clean, cut—well ed­
ucated—with a scientific bent—and he 
knows his way ’round, because he smokes
cMelachrino
The Cigarette Elect of All Nations"
Remember that Melachrino is a master blend 
of the finest Turkish Tobaccos as originated 
by MilciadesMelachrino. Egyptian cigarettes 
are simply those that originated in Egypt. 
But the tobacco is what you want to know 
about—and if it’s Melachrino—it’s right.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
NEW $400,000 GYMNASIUM AS DESIGNED BY MR. HORNBOSTEL 
VIEW OF THE BUILDING AS IT WILL LOOK WHEN COMPLETED
BASKET BALL TEAM 
RECEIVES LETTERS
BY H. F. SIMPSON
Steffens to Visit School. Keller 
Elected Basket Ball 
Manager
THE NEW CUP
Thanks are due the Scalp and Blade for their splendid show of generosity 
! in presenting the new Inter-Fraternity basket ball cup. There has been a
I crying need for this new trophy for quite a while, and it is to the everlasting 
credit of these men from Buffalo that they came through with the satisfying 
of it.
ALL OF WHICH REMINDS US
The post season games to decide the first holder of this new cup finished 
its first week in a grand mix-up. The Iota Sigma Deltas won and lost. The 
same happened to the teams representing Kappa Sigma and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon.
Iota Sigma Delta lost to S. A. E., who in turn were defeated by the 
Kappa Sigs, who earlier in tlie week had lost to Iota Sigma Delta. Maybe 
this week will clear the situation somewhat. At any rate, let's hope so!
BUT, IN THE MEANWHILE
Let’s get out and see these games. You may not be a supporter of either 
one of these teams, but if you like good basket ball, you surely ought to see 
these games. No admission is charged. Games are properiy handled by 
efficient referee and umpire. Each team is represented by good players. 
The teams are evenly matched. Games are played on Tuesday and Thurs­
day nights, and Saturday afternoon at 2:30 p. m.
Swimming pool to be located in the new gymnasium. Of course we 
don’t believe it will be ready by next fall, but let’s take it for granted, and 
get ready for that good swimming team we’re going to have. Every day 
this summer, take a trip to the old swimming hole, and swim, swim, swim.
Cheer leaders’ class is going good—go to it, fellows—we’ll need you 
soon, and we expect to see you do good work when the proper time arrives.
SOOTHING TO MANAGERS
There are.some who say that student activities are a waste of time— 
others say they are the best part of a college education.
Kegardless of what you think, read what a great business concern has 
to say on the subject. This is from a Western Electric Company advertise­
ment, and therefore should demand respect:
“BUT HE’S REALLY TRYING OUT FOR SALES MANAGER
“The Freshman who comes out for baseball manager and who sticks is 
learning a lesson which, whether or not it wins that honor for him, should 
win some honors in after life.
“He will learn that his plugging on the diamond, his efforts four years 
hence to get the upper hand on his first job, and after that his striving to 
climb into the managerial and executive class are all part of the same game.
"Now, just as ten years from now, he will have to do many things that 
are hard, many things that are unpleasant. The more willing he is, the more 
work will other men put upon him. But by that he grows.
“The rewards after college are given on about the same basis as now. 
They go to the man who besides doing his main job well, still has the time 
to reach out after other work and the spirit that masters it.
“Here is where this comes home to you. Don’t be content with standing 
high in the classroom. Support your college activities and go after some 
campus honors, too. This broadening of your interests will become a habit 
that in after life will prove a mighty big help.”
Wonder if any steps are being taken for that girls’ cheer leader?
A girls’ tennis team here at Carnegie Tech would not be a bad idea— why not try it? •
The Athletic Council held their 
regular meeting last Saturday night, 
May 2th, in the home of President 
Overend.
Minutes of the previous meeting 
were accepted, after which a discus­
sion on a means to replenish the 
funds for athletic support. It was de­
cided that letters would be •written to 
all subscribers of the C. I. T. A. E.
F. of two years ago, asking them for 
whatever aid they saw fit to give.
A letter from Wally Steffen, foot­
ball coach, was read, in which lie in­
dicated his interest in the coming 
season and his intention to visit the 
school during campus week.
Major “C” was granted to the fol­
lowing members of the basket ball 
team: R. C. Gibson, H. W. Dosey, W. 
IS. Bell, N. E. Allen, O. B. NeWman, 
J. C. Anderson. Managerial “C” was 
awarded Robert H. Carew.
1925 numerals were awarded the 
following members of the Freshman 
basket ball team: M. Matter, F. D. 
Brooks, W. F. Koppes, H. W. Oles.
H. R. Murray, E. M. Gilbert, while O. 
J. Horger was granted a minor “C” 
-with a bar for managerial services.
Sydney Keller was elected manager 
for 1923, with R. H. Humbert and S. 
E. Bittner as first assistants. G. H. 
Dyke, E. W. Duggan, E. S. Miller and 
R. W. Beardslee were appointed sec­
ond assistants.
Motion was made and passed that 
student members' of Athletic Council 
are not to receive major “C” with 
bar.
The question of granting “C” to 
head cheer leader was again brought 
up for discussion and tabled until the 
next meeting.
It was decided that a varsity hat be 
given to all varsity men who have 
paid initiation, fee to the varsity 
clan.
«gii
PERSPECTIVE VIEW FROM M. M. C.Tie Still Exists in 
Inter-Frat. Contest
Each of Three League Lead­
ers Strikes Slump
The completion of the first half of 
the series for the Inter-Fraternity 
basket ball championship still leaves 
a doubt as to which team is the best 
of the three. Each team won a game 
and then struck a slump, each losing 
a game last week.
An error was made in publishing 
the schedule last week. According to 
the correct schedule, Iota Sigma Delta 
plays Kappa Sigma on Tuesday night, 
S. A. E. on Thursday night and then 
Kappa Sigma plays S. A. E. in the 
final game on Saturday afternoon.
S. A. E. Beats lota Slgma Delta.
On Saturday afternoon in Tech 
gym. S. A. E. took over Iota Sigma 
Delta by the score of 28-14. S. A. E. 
went into the lead at the start, and 
with Alexander running wild, hold a 
comfortable lead with the score at 19- 
8 at end of first half. Iota Sigma 
Delta came up in the second period, 
•but were unable to cope with the; 
heavy S. A. E. passers. For S. A. E., 
Alexander and Temmel did good work, 
while Wilson and Kennedy starred 
for Iota Sigma Delta, 
lota Slgma Delta Wins First Game.
Opening the post season series on 
Tuesday night of last week, Iota 
Sigma Delta decisively trimmed Kap­
pa Sigma 25-11. Starting off with a 
rush the Iota Sigma Delta team took 
the lead and was never stopped. At 
the end of the first half they wero 
leading 16-5. In the second half Kap­
pa Sigfna braced up and mado an 
oven break of it. Byerly and Wilson 
were the stars for the winners, while 
Bob Smith 'and Rhodes, who wont in 
in the second half, did good work for 
Kappa Sigma,
Kappa Sigma Wins From S. A. E.
In the second game of the series 
for the Intor-Fratornity basket ball 
championship, Kappa Slgma defeated 
S. A. E., 18-6. The game was fast 
and hard fought all the way through. 
In the first period the teams wore 
about evenly matched, the half end­
ing with a score of 4-4. Coming back 
strong in the second half, Kappa 
Sigma rolled up 11 points while S. A.
E. scored 2. Bob Smith and McCaw 
showed well for Kappa Slgma while 
Temmel and Alexander starred for 
the losers. *
'-T'WKjinriw
¡¿»SSSSIhstíimamT-
VIEW FROM W00DLAWN AVE
Studonts, to got a reliable fountain 
pen, Bvorslmrp poncll, "Toeh" recog­
nition or soal pin, brief caso, school 
ring, porsonal stationery, otc., should 
call at the* Singer Penn and Qii't 
Shop In Jenkins Arcado,
TO YOU 
who are just assuming the 
responsibilities of life, the 
experience. Interest and 
kindly advice our officers are 
glad to put at your service 
can be made to mean much. 
We cordially invite you to 
come to our bank that we 
may get acquainted.
Capital and Surplus 
$12,000,000.
Dancing
Eveiy Saturday, 9 P. M. 
“THE 
RITTENHOUSE” 
“Giles.” Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
“The Sextons”
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
8urplua and Undivided
Proflta...................$300,000.00
Doponlto, Over - - $<1,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
6100 PENN AVENUETECH SHOE REPAIR
Wo use the 
Goodyear Well; System 
4523 FORBES ST.
Open All Year.
How do they get that way?The Carnegie Tech Girls’1 Varsity 
closed a season that was not so suc­
cessful as regards games won, but 
was indeed fine so far as spirit and 
good times were concerned. While 
the final reckoning shows but one vic­
tory out of five games, the girts re­
gard the season as one which was 
well worth the effort.
Much of the credit for this har­
monious spirit should go to Miss Bow­
man, the coach, who leaves after this 
year to take charge of a husband. She 
was a tireless worker and her person­
ality and spirit had much to do with 
bringing forth the utmost effort on 
the part of each girl on the team.
The lineup of the team was as fol­
lows: Forwards, Helen Reed, captain, 
and Isabel Winner; center, Florence 
Montgomery; side center, Jean Eakin, 
manager; guards, Eleanor Thomas 
and Bessie Bulmer. Other combina­
tions were filled quite successfully 
by the following: Margaret Markey, 
Ruth Snyder, Maude Cook and Elea­
nor Craver.
No doubt most of the defeats were 
due to a lack of suitable practice 
time, all practicing being done at 
noon and a lack of -sufficient games 
to give seasoning to team play. There 
was also the- difficulty of various in-, 
terpretations of the rules met in dif­
ferent places.
These things, however, are not of­
fered as alibis, but as simple state­
ments of fact.
MURAD
ASK the mail with the big income his “secret of 
XJk. success;” and you will generally find that it is 
some copy-book maxim known to everybody.
“lie sure you are right, then go ahead.”
“If anything is in your way, go over it.”
“Learn something about everything and every­
thing about, something.”
Trite! Anybody could give you as good advice. 
It simply means that success is not a problem of 
discovering some obscure short-cut. The path is 
plain enough, but only alertness, energy and self- 
discipline will push you along it.
All tlijs holds a special force for you because 
what you do at college will influence what you do 
afterwards. If you start right, the chances are you 
will finish right.
You can begin now to earn your place in the high-, 
salaried class. Each honest day’s work in laboratory 
and lecture hall will bring you nearer. It will help 
you to master the fundamentals of your profession 
—so that later on you may handle problems more 
easily and make decisions more <|nic-kly and surely.
Then and on I v then, in proportion as you clear 
your mind of detail, can }’ou give time and energy 
to those larger questions of policy in engineering, 
selling, management and finance which fix the execu­
tive’s market value.
8PA 8GETWOP HWCREA88A
Every day MURADS are held 
higher in the estimation of the men 
who smoke them.
They are the standard of Taste.
They never disappoint—never 
fail—never change—
They are 100% pure Turkish to­
bacco—of the finest varieties grown.
• You are proud to smoke them, 
in any company—on any occasion.
They are the largest selling high- 
grade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers of America 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
“Judge for Yourself—/ ”
m«Hi
y Published in \
the interest of Elec­
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what­
ever helps the 
\ Industry.ATTENTION! SC. SOPHOMORE
At the last meeting of the Soph­
omore das*, .SLL than 30 per cent 
of the mombers were In attendance, 
This showing was very poor The 
important business of the class can­
not be carried on correctly1 unless 
there TU more of a turnout for class 
meeting:; and discussions. The next 
meeting will be held on Thursday, 
April 6. Let’s have every man of 
’24 out for the meeting so that we 
can accomplish something.
An organization whose products and services 
apply to all fields where electricity is used—in 
the power plant, in the shot), on the farm and 
in the home.
iCai/hkk
OaunhVMd

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FOURWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN JunioruJ Cl uoas Boqre 
HOLDS PARTY APR. 10 0RGANIZED IN JR-CLANS
ALUMNI FEDERATION 
PARTY MARCH 31
PENN STATE ALUMNI 
MEET LOCAL CLAN
LOST — Beaded bag, in the Arts 
theater or on the way to the car line, 
Saturday evening. Please return to 
Dean Tarbell’s office.CLAN NEWS
The students oil Carnegie Tech are 
now being organized Into Junior 
Claus which are similar in purpose 
to the Alumni Clans. These Cluns 
will enable the students to take 
their places in the Alumni Clans 
A cordial Invitation Is extended when they graduate and It Is hoped 
to all student«! from Youngstown, 'that by the co-operation of the two, 
Niles, Warren,. Sulom, Sharon, New Carnegie Tech will, soon have a 
Castle, etc., to attend the April 10 strong alumni body something which 
meeting of the Youngstown Clan In has been a sore need of the past 
the Y. M. 0. A. at 0:45 p. m. The years.
charge will bo seventy-live cents At present there are about twenty­
per person. Tills promises to ho live Alumni Clans throughout the 
a real live affair and the Alumni United States extending from FACCH 
Offlco would like to see as many ton In the Bast, to Virginia In the 
students an possible attend this South and St. Louis In the Mid- 
meeting. The speaker on this oc- West.
caslon will be 11. N. Waddell, as- The Mid-Western Club Is the first
slstant football coach. He will give to organize Into a Junior Clan. The
a talk on present day athletics and students from the Mid-West who at 
our prospects for next fall. All present comprise about twenty-live 
alumni In the vicinity are asked to per cent of our student body were 
support this mooting as It will give not organized until this year and 
thorn an opportunity to meet the they now have one of the strongest 
students now attending Tech. sectional organizations on the camp-
Tlito Youngstown Clan held a very us. 
interesting mooting Monday, March The .members of the Buckeye Club
20. Eleven members were present, are to be furnished' with lists of 
Chiqfy things of interest taken pp alumni who live In their locality 
wore the affairs of 'Campus Week, and during the Easter recess "will 
Youngstown Clan expects to turn call on them and glvo them some 
out 100 per cent for Campus Geek, first hand Information about the
GIRLS' YOUNGSTOWN CLANwas married Saturday, March 4. She 
resides in Youngstown.O. K. RESTAURANT
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Discuss Means of Promoting 
Better Athletic RelationsEntertains Students Home 
For Easter Recess
Dance and Theater Party to 
be Held in Arts Building
Saturday afternoon, March 18, the 
Sharon girls of the Margaret Morri­
son Youngstown Clan had a very 
pleasant card party In the home of 
Miss Florence Flinn of Lorain ave­
nue, Sharon. Fourteen of the Clan 
members were present. Large bas­
kets of spring flowers formed attrac­
tive decorations throughout the 
rooms. At a later hour a delicious 
lunch was served by the committee 
composed of Mrs. C. A. Ferguson, 
Mrs. A. E. Abel, Miss Jessie Bell, 
Miss Eleanor Kerr and Miss Flor­
ence Flinn.
Those attending from Youngstown 
wore Mrs. Chas. Martin, Mrs. John 
Eaton, Miffs Clare Todd and Miss 
Elizabeth Stevenson. New Castle 
was represented by Mrs. Welty 
Hugh and Mrs. James Pollock, Jr.
Mrs. Florence Dean Seiple of 
Greenville, is the mother of a baby 
girl born in February.The next big social affair to be 
held by the Pittsburgh Clan will be 
a joint meeting with l-enn State 
Alumni in the English Room of the 
Fort Pitt Hotel, Saturday, April 22, 
at 1 p. m.
In addition to this luncheon the 
Margaret Morrison girls will hold a 
benefit bridge party the same after­
noon in the Assembly Room of the 
Fort Pitt Hotel.
The idea of a joint meeting with 
Penn State is to bring about a bet­
ter feeling among institutions and 
to start the ball rolling in this city 
for having intercollegiate affairs 
more often. A good live program 
will be arranged and it will be a 
party that no one can afford to 
miss.
Penn State has an alumni asso­
ciation in Pittsburgh approximately 
five hundred and they expect at 
least fifty per cent to be present at 
this luncheon. Therefore Tech 
alumni, it is up to you to come out 
and support your Alma Mater and 
make our attendance just as strong.
Remember the Clan party held on 
January 28. This is going to be 
something similar.
There will be music, speaking and 
a general good time. More details 
of this meeting will be published in 
The Tartan next week.
Everybody out for the Alumni Fed­
eration theater dance party, Friday. 
March 31—College of Arts.
•Remember at 8:15 the play called 
"Groat Katherine” will be presented 
In the Little Theater. At 0:30 dancing 
Jn the Arts Foyer. Music furnished 
by Magglo. Punch and cako will be 
served. Admission $1.50 per couple. 
Tickets now on sale at the Alumni Of­
fice. Support Carnegie. Be there.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST - 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh.
SUNDAY SERVICES
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ............................8 to 9
DAYTON CLAN
The regular monthly meeting and 
dinner of the Dayton 'Club was held 
Friday, March 17, at the Dayton En­
gineers' Club. Those present were:
F. Heckert, F. Flader, R. Cunning­
ham, G. Paulson, G. Song, a new­
comer in Dayton, E. Bosler, C. Alt- 
schul and L. Slegler.
After the dinner the meeting was 
open f6r business. Topic uuder dis­
cussion was “An entertainment for 
the members, their wives and friends 
for the purpose of getting better ac­
quainted.”
A motion was made that the Clan 
hold a dinner sometime during the 
Easter vacation to which affair Day­
ton students now attending Tech be 
invited.
There are at the present time six­
teen members of thisi Clan and the 
coming dinner should certainly be 
a live affair. The date will be an­
nounced in a later issue of The Tar­
tan. This Clan has only been or­
ganized a few months but it is cer­
tainly progressing rapidly and in 
proper time should become one of 
the best of the Alumni organizations.
Too much credit cannot be given 
to the Dayton Clan members for the 
interest and hearty support that 
they are giving Carnegie.
inimiiiiiiiniiniiiniiniiiniiiiniinHiiiiiiniiiniiiiniiniiiiiiiiifliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHuiininninnii 
Tech Barber Shop | 
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor | 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency. |
TAU BETA PI WILL HOLD
BANQUET AT HOTEL CHATHAM
The Spring initiation and banquet 
of Tau Beta PI fraternity will be held 
Saturday night, April 1, 1922, at the 
Chatham Hotel, Proceedings will 
start at 0:00 p. m.
Any Tau Beta Pi man who lias not 
mado Ills reservation Is urged to do 
so at once by notifying A. D. .Tenner, 
4902 Forbes street, or telephone 
Schonley 9143.
Youngstown Clan News Items.
Miss Corinne Adams has opened 
a tea room on Phelps street, Youngs­
town, Ohio. Her overseas chum, 
Miss CoFbach of Iowa, is associated 
with her.
BELLEFIELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The Church of Friendly People” 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School...... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service........ 8:00P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
progress of Carnegie Tech. This is 
being done in order to encourage 
the alumni to be more active and 
to impress upon them that they did 
not become separated from Carnegie 
Tech after completing their course 
here.
The main purpose, of the Junior 
Clans are:
1. To aid in the organization of 
a strong alumni body.
2. To hold dances for the benefits 
of Scholarship funds.
3. To have strong sectional or­
ganizations which will create better 
conditions among the students and 
encourage promising high school 
graduates to come to Carnegie Tech.
Miss Agnes I-Iaurr of New Castle, 
was marrjed December 16, to James 
K. Pollock, Jr., Professor of HIstorj 
and Political Science at Geneva Col­
lege, Beaver Falls.Davies Sc Hughes
“Dependable”
HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS
Cooler Underwear for Warmer Weather.
J leadquarters for College Neckwear.
3615 FORBES ST. Next to Strand Theater
Miss Edith Pearson of Youngs­
town, has accepted a position as as­
sistant superintendent at Memorial 
Hospital, Morristown, N. J.
Miss Ester King of Youngstown,VARSITY CLANRENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAEALUMNI NEWS
The Varsity Clan executive com­
mittee held a meeting in the club 
room in the gymnasium Wednesday, 
March 8tn, and discussed matters 
pertaining to the Clan policies and 
actions. Plans were made for carry­
ing forward the purposes of the Clan 
and to make the organization func­
tion as it should.
One thing in particular was' brought 
out by the discussions. When the Clan 
was originated paid up membership 
entitled the members to free admis­
sion to all athletic contests on the 
home grounds. Then came the ath­
letic reorganization and the necessity 
for much more money that was avail­
able. The athletic council and the 
athletic authorities belie,ved that the 
varsity men would be first in sup­
porting the team financially. The 
value of the season ticket had risen 
from three dollars to more than four 
times that value. The number of Clan 
members actually in good standing 
was small. Thus Clan members were 
charged admission similarly to the 
other alumni.
During the past year the secretary 
has been compiling a complete record 
of letter awards and varsity men that 
the Clan might have records which 
are essential lo it. When this record 
is completed the Clan is going to 
make an effort to reinstate every 
member upon the payment of one 
year’s dues, so that Carnegie may 
have a real representative varsity as­
sociation to voice the sentiment of 
the ex-varsity alumni. The secretary 
will appreciate any information you 
can send regarding dates of letter 
awards or names or addresses, which 
will be useful in compiling the rec­
ord.
Secretary, Frank I-I. Haareu, Car­
negie Institute of Technology. 
SCHEDULE FOR SUMMER
WORK IS COMPLETED
(Continued From Page One.) 
especially to meet tlie needs of teach­
ers of technical subjects. In the for­
mer group each subject is scheduled 
for twice the usual number of hours 
a week; this plan makes it possible 
to cover, in the eight weeks’ Summer 
Session, the work of a semester in, 
any subject. The usual maximum 
schedule of a student in tiie Summer 
Session is fifty-four (54) work hours 
a week (or twenty-seven semester 
units). In the second group there are 
courses planned for teachers and su­
pervisors of art and of music, given 
by- the College of Fine Arts, as well 
as courses for teachers of manual 
training and industrial arts, given by 
the College of Industries. All courses 
for teachers are scheduled for the six 
weeks’ period.
Mimeographed sheets, showing the 
summer work in each of the colleges, 
have been prepared and can be ob­
tained at the office of the Registrar 
or at the offices of the directors. 
These sheets give a .list of all the 
subjects which are offered, showing 
the hours scheduled and the number 
of semester units of credit for each 
subject.
The fees for the Summer Session, 
as explained on the mimeographed 
sheets, are worked out on the “zone” 
plan and vary with the total number 
of semester units carried. For the 
summer work in surveying, an in­
structional fee of $15, $9 and $G will 
be charged for the courses of six, 
three and two weeks, respectively. 
PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSIONS
Please!
Please m&kle your reservations 
promptly for the card party on April
22. We sigh for magic words to 
get that idea across. Last time we 
asked to have reservations made by 
a certain date; three persons were 
considerate enough to respond by® 
that time! It is impossible to have 
a smoothly functioning, irreproacha­
ble party under such conditions. 
The committee begs you to be more 
considerate this time!
The Wireless Electric Company 
wishes to announce to the students of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
and- the many readers of the Tartan 
that they will supply their customers 
through the wholesale department 
until the retail store is open, which 
will be about May 1.
All materials and radio equipment 
furnished by the Wireless Electric 
Company will have their guarantee 
as to quality and accuracy.
Panels will be made to specifica­
tions and engraved at a unit price per 
character.
|Mr. Meredith Elliott, their produc­
tion engineer, will he at the institute 
until May and will ho pleased to fur­
nish all information.
Temporary quarters — Second floor 
20G Stanwix street.—(Adv.)
Benefit Card Party At Fort Pitt Hotel,
One of our members recently re­
marked that "this seems to be a 
year of evperiments. In order to 
live up to this tradition we are go­
ing to try the experiment of having 
our card party outside the campus. 
The prime reason for this is that 
we want to stage a bigger party 
this year than can be accommodated 
on the campus. It is time we 
branched out and made our benefit 
a real one, not just a re-union for 
our own good time. Another reason 
is that we need the publicity of the 
'bigger party.
However inexplicable the reason, 
it must be admitted that benefits 
held at the larger hotels carry a 
certain prestige that the more mod­
est home grown variety never 
achieve. The day is coming when 
our Alma Mater will require us to 
give substantial proof of our loy­
alty. In order to be in a position 
to give practical help our association 
must establish ltsolf with the public. 
We need more faith and less mod­
esty. Soi this experiment is just a 
glance toward the future. Lot every­
body help Whether you approve or 
not. Let’s try it out and see if we 
can't do something big! Let every 
girl1 make therself responsible for 
filling one table. Hunt up the 
“bridge fans” among your acquaint­
ances and sell them a ticket. They 
patronize other college benefits—why 
not ours? Husbands are invited too 
—also would-be husbands. There will 
be a Clan luncheon the same day at 
the Fort Pitt. Meet your husband 
downtown and have lunch with the 
other Techites then move over to 
the card party, thus killing two 
birds with the same sling-shot! 
Don’t forget! Saturday, April 22 at 
the Fort Pitt. Make a day of it!
WANTED—The Alumni Office is 
very anxious to get a copy of the 1919 
Thistle. If any alumnus has an extra 
copy, please send It to the Alumni 
Office, C. O. D.M
ETROPOLITAN busi­
ness men hav been 
buying their shoes of John Ward for these twentv-five years. Collej men wno ai* 
particular, ar equally enthu­siastic over the smart styling, 
unusual wear and moderate prices which distinguish ev­
ery John Ward production.
Shown by
GEORGE E. WELDE 
at the Fraternities 
March 31 and April 1.
DIRECTOR MOTT AD­
DRESSES SCIENCE PLEBESrieres whyCAMELS arethe quality' cigarette
(Continued From Page Ono.7 
Individual students whom he has 
chosen.
Director Mott now took the floor 
and explained1 the basic essentials 
to bo consldorod in choosing a vo­
cation, stating that the Froshmon 
have been here J,ong enough now, 
to have a general Idea of tho vari­
ous engineering fields..
He advised all students not really 
Interested In their work, to leave 
school this Juno; for the work 
should appeal to tho worker, and 
he should bo happy when engaged 
in it.
Student gossip should not bo given 
too much credence, since all the 
courses have the same foundation; 
yet Director Mott considers student 
sentiment reliable.
For further information he dis­
tributed pamphlets containing the 
merits and: possibilities the various 
fields offer, and referred the Plebes 
to the heads of the departments. 
Each Freshman must announce his 
intentions after Easter .vacation and 
must first consult the head of the 
department he chooses.
B
ECAUSE we put the utmost quality into 
this one brand. Camels are as good as it’s 
possible for skill, money and lifelong knowledge 
of fine tobaccos to make a cigarette.
Nothing is too good for Camels. And bear 
tliis in mind! Everything is done to make 
Camels the best cigarette it’s possible ,to buy. 
Nothing is done simply for show.
Take the Camel package for instance. It’s the 
most perfect packing science can devise to pro­
tect cigarettes and keep them fresh. Heavy 
paper—secure foil wrapping—revenue stamp 
to seal the fold and make the package air-tight. 
But there’s nothing flashy about it. You’ll find 
no extra wrappers. No frills or furbelows.
Such things do not improve the smoke any 
more than premiums or coupons. And remember 
—you must pay their extra cost or get lowered 
quality.
If you want the smoothest, mellowest, mildest 
cigarette you can imagine—and one entirely free 
from cigaretty aftertaste,
It’s Camels for you.
General Offises : i'll Duane street New York. City
Slores in Ji4anhal fan, Brooklyn,'Philadelphia
rENUS
PENCILS
TpOR the student or prof., 
the superb VENUS out­
rivals all for perfect pencil 
work. 17 black degrees anti 3 copying.
American Lead 
Pencil Co.
220 FlfthAvc.
NcwYork y
TECH NEEDS SONG BOOK;
STUDENTS, WRITE FOR IT!
(Continued From Page One.) 
be handed down to posterity furnish­
ing honor for our Alma Mater and 
pleasure to all those following us. Is 
not that a large enough commission? 
We who are in college at this time 
are given a rare privilege in getting 
up this book. The responsibility of 
making this a good book is great as 
it is one which will be used regularly 
in the future.
GET OUT YOUR BAG-PIPE AND 
TUNE UP!
Show your good old Tech Spirit; 
make this book a reality. Give us 
some music, poems or both!
OH! LORDY, HELP US SING CAR­
NEGIE TECH TO GLORY!
FINKELHOR VISITS SCHOOL
Robert Finlcelhor, architect, ’19, 
visited the Alumni Office last week. 
Mr. Finkeihor is a member of the 
finn of Schumacher X: Finkeihor, 
architects and engineers, Sioux Falls, 
South Dakota. Mr. Finkeihor states 
that business conditions have im­
proved a great deal in the Middle 
West and that they are now doing 
a splendid business. Mr. Schumach­
er, the other member of the firm 
is also a graduate of the Architectur­
al Department, ’19.WRIGLEY5of the School," bringing in the fact 
that he was very proud to be at the 
smoker and among Mid-West men.
Mr. Lundy then closed the evening 
by inviting every member present to 
join tho club, stating that a luncheon 
would be held at 1:00 o’clock Satur­
day, April 1, at the King Edward 
apartments, Noville and Bayard 
streets, at which time any man from 
the Mid-West should come.
NewestCreation
MID-WEST CLUB STAGES
SMOKER SATURDAY NIGHT
(Continued From Page One.) 
by joining a porson could get tho 
spirit, of tho association and could 
bring good to tho school as woll as 
to thomselvos.
Dean Morris spoke 011 the “History
(Continued From Page One.) 
in these measurements at the focus 
of a large reflecting telescope. With 
a 3-foot reflecting telescope it is pos­
sible to detect an amount of radiation 
equal to that given off by a caudle at 
a distance of 500 miles.
On Thursday, March 30, Mr. C. O. 
Williamson will describe some of the 
most recent experimental work bear­
ing on the electron theory of metallic 
conduction. Mr. Gerald Harper will 
speak at the same meeting on scat­
tering of light in quartz crystals. The 
meeting will be held at 4:30 p. m. in 
113 Science. All -interested are cor­
dially invited to attend and to take 
part in the discussions.
Do You Love Oriental Art Goods?
------------------------- COME AND VISIT OUR STORE --------------------------
Silk Shawls and Scarfs, Pearl Bead Necklaces, Oriental Rugs and Per­
fumes, Marble Pieces, Inlaid with Mother of Pearl; Hand-Carved 
Cigar Boxes and other Antiquities.
K. Kumar Sc Co.
------Managed by a Tech Student------
FIFTH AND ATWOOD OAKLAND
Peppermint fla- ^ 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
‘‘melts in your . 
mouth," leaving M 
the deliciously / 
flavored gum § 
center to aid I 
digestion, % 
brighten teeth \ 
and soothe \ 
mouth and throat.
t“oTu
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Win.ton-Snlem, N. C.
h“oTuP
