The Carnegie Tartan
XTn\ 36 No. 22f!ÄPVP.ßTli! TOR'I'TTTTTT?. nv TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 0, 1943
The Women s Guild Dance really invites you!
Women’s Guild Dance 
Theme: Latin-America, 
Orchestra: Bill LeRoy
By Alan Schneider
“Step up and buy zees leetle bou­
quet for your beautiful senorita,” 
demures a jewel-bedecked South 
American beauty. “And over here 
we have zose gen-u-yine Souse 
American popcorn balls,” shouts an­
other. A third appeals to those of 
you whose un-Latin blood craves a 
good ol’ coke.
Yikes! Have I forgotten to tell 
you when, where, and what this is? 
It’s that gala affair, the Women’s 
Guild dance, to be held this Satur­
day, March 13, from nine to one, in 
the men’s gym, the tickets costing 
$1.40. Whew, that was a mouthful 
for one breath, but it gave all the 
facts, and I have enough space left 
to tell you a lot more about the guild 
and the things they are planning 
for the dance.
The Women’s Guild, to begin with, 
is made up of all the women’s or­
ganizations. They put on a series 
of events during the year to raise 
money, which they donate to the 
upperclass women’s scholarship 
fund. Virginia Brucer in charge of 
the dance, says “We’re out to beat, 
last year’s record of $250.”
Her confident wink and my un­
failing crystal ball both say that the 
dance will be one of the best. Every­
one’s going. There’s a mile-long 
line behind the Whitfield Hall phone. 
—it’s the girls, you see, who get the 
dates, and what girl is going to pass 
up this golden, golden opportunity? 
(If he wishes, a fella can bring his 
own date, too.) And speaking of 
golden, just wait till you here the 
music of Bill LeRoy’s orchestra. 
Man, oh man—does he send you!
That Souse American atmosphere 
is being provided by Barbara Smith, 
Sally Moir and crew. Righht now 
they are having carpenter trouble, 
but rumor has it that those re­
sourceful women have an “in” in 
the men’s dorms. (I’m sure Mrs. 
Yon won’t object to a few Scobell- 
ites being seduced to the gym to 
build palm trees, especially since 
their products are going to add to 
the success <?f g social affair.)
Board Member Dies 
After Long Sickness
Frank J. Lanahan, veteran of 21 
years service to Carnegie Tech as a 
member of the board of trustees, 
died in Mercy hospital last week. 
Mr. Lanahan, a recognized figure in 
industrial, civic, and religious or­
ganizations, is known best around 
here for his interest in school af­
fairs.
In addition to being a trustee, he 
was a member of the athletic board. 
“Buddy” Overend, athletic director, 
says, “He showed a special interest 
in the football team, often buying 
whole blocks of tickets for friends 
and business associates.” The an­
nual dinner-dance he put on for the 
football team and their dates was 
almost a tradition before his illness 
necessitated its discontinuance a 
few years ago. Mr. Lanahan was 
often found at the ATO fraternity, 
of which he was an honorary mem­
ber.
English Shakespearian 
Director to Produce 
“Romeo and Juliet”
Returning to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology from England where he 
has been director of the Shakes­
peare Memorial Theatre at Strat­
ford-on-Avon for the past eight 
years, B. Iden Payne, formerly pro­
fessor of drama in the Carnegie 
Tech College of Fine Arts, is di­
recting a production of “Romeo and 
Juliet” which will open a two-week 
run in the Tech Theatre next Satur­
day, March 13.
Associated with the Carnegie 
Tech Department of Drama for 
many years and at one time its head, 
Mr. Payne achieved a notable rep­
utation both in this country and 
abroad as an authority on Shakes­
pearean productions. At Stratford- 
on-Avon he has directed eight or 
nine plays each season. Since the 
outbreak of the war the program of 
the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre 
has necessarily been curtailed to a 
great extent because of the difficulty 
of securing actors, shortages of ma­
terial, and dim-out regulations re­
quiring all theatrical performances 
to be concluded by 10:00 p. m. When 
Mr. Payne indicated that he might 
be available to direct the annual 
Shakespeare production at Carnegie 
Tech, the Department of Drama 
welcomed the possibility and urged 
him to make the trip to this coun­
try which he negotiated under haz­
ardous conditions aboard a freight­
er.
Costuming of “Romeo and Juliet” 
will be particularly elaborate. Be­
sides the student-designed costumes, 
the Carnegie Tech drama depart­
ment also as a large collection in- 
Continued on page 5
The first woman student to be ad­
mitted to a regular degree course in 
the College of Engineering at Car­
negie Institute of Technology is 
Julia Ann Randall, 17, of 288 Mid­
way Road, Mount Lebanon. This 
was announced March 7 by John M. 
Daniels, Chairman of Admissions. 
Miss Randall will enter the College 
of Engineering in May as a fresh­
man in the department of physics.
At present a senior in Mount Leb­
anon High School, Miss Randall of­
fered an exceptional record; she has 
been named on the highest honor 
roll and has received honorable 
mention in the Westinghouse Sci­
ence Search Test. Miss Randall 
chose the department of physics at 
Carnegie Tech, she said, because of 
her interest in mathematics and 
sciences and because of present op­
portunities for women in the field 
of industrial physics. In addition 
to achieving honor grades in all her 
high school subjects, she took part 
in orchestra, library and other ac­
tivities at her high school and was
MISS JULIA ANN RANDALL
. . . physicist, class o/ ’45 . . .
awarded a key in recognition of 
these interests.
Her father, Winslow H. Randall, 
attended Northwestern University; 
her mother was graduated from the 
same, institution in the School of 
Speech.
Navy Y-12 Tests 
To Be Given Here
Carnegie Tech has been selected 
by the Bureau of Naval personnel of 
the United States as one of the cen­
ters to administer qualifying tests 
for the new Navy College Training 
Program, which is known as the 
V-12 program.
The tests for the preliminary se­
lection of the men to be given this 
college training will be held in vari­
ous centers throughout thè United 
States on Friday, April 2, between 
the hours of 9 and 11 A. M. Carnegie 
students who qualify for the tests 
will be excused from regular class­
es that morning.
The purpose of the V-12 program 
is to produce Naval Officers. College 
students, high school graduates, and 
high school seniors who appear to 
have potentialities for ultimate se­
lection as officers will be chosen for 
college training.
The plan contemplates that this 
college training will be carried on 
while the men are on active duty, 
in uniform, receiving pay, and un­
der general military discipline.
Only the following groups are eli­
gible: (a) High school and prepara­
tory school graduates who will have 
attained their 17th birthdays on July 
1, 1943, regardless of whether they 
are now attending college (b) High 
school and preparatory school sen­
iors who will be graduate by July 1, 
1943, provided they will have at­
tained their 17th but not their 20th 
birthdays by that date (c) Students 
who will have attained their 17th 
but not their 20th birthdays by July
1, 1943, who do not hold certificates 
of graduation from a secondary 
school but who are now continuing 
their education in an accredited col­
lege or university.
Each applicant must be a male 
citizen of the United States, be mor­
ally and physically qualified for this 
program, including a minimum un­
corrected visual acuity of 18/20 for 
each eye, be unmarried and agree to 
remain unmarried until commis­
sioned, unless sooner released by 
the Navy Department, and evidence 
potential officer qualifications, in­
cluding appearance and scholarship 
records.
Men now enlisted in any branch 
of the armed services, including V-l, 
V-5, V-7 reserves on inactive status, 
are not eligible to take this test. Ap­
plication forms and information rel­
ative to the rooms where the test 
will be held will be available at the 
office of Charles E. Wangman, head, 
Bureau of Placements.
Dr. J. M. Porter, of the Bureau of 
Measurement and Guidance, has 
been named to supervise the tests 
at the Carnegie Tech center.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1943
•A’uttcJuU’i
Memo To Whom It May Concern
Re: United War Fund
One of the most rotten things we can imagine has been brought to 
our attention. Carnegie students who pledged to the United War Fund 
have apparently welshed on their honest debts. The final payment of 
these pledges which we accepted in good faith by the Fund Committee 
was due in January. Mr. Kent Schaffer turned the total Pledges in to the 
City War Fund Committee and now he is “stuck” for $337.45. This situa­
tion is giving Carnegie Tech a black eye in addition to putting a swell 
person on the spot.
If you have just forgotten about your pledge, pay it immediately; if 
you can’t pay, let Mr. Schaffer know. If you are waiting for us to pub­
lish a list of the 300 welsher’s name, you may not have long to wait.
Re: Red Cross Fund
It looks as though Dean Murphy and his little student “brain trust” 
hit the right formula in launching the Red Cross drive. Already a num­
ber of tags indicating 50 cents contributed are blossoming out on our 
campus. Don’t forget to give your nickel a day and to get your tag when 
you have given a total of 50 cents.
Re: President’s Student Conference Committee
Upon occasion (said occasion usually being a bull-session) when Pres­
ident Doherty’s Student Conference Committee is mentioned, we are 
amazed that most students do not know that such a committee exists. 
That such a committee does exist and actively functions should be known 
to all students.
The committee consists of the Presidents of Student Council, the 
Dorm Councils, I. S. C., I. F. C., I. H. C., Citcom Clan and Scotch and 
Soda, Secretary of Student Council and Editors of the Technical and 
Tartan. These students meet once a month with President Doherty and 
Dean Warden attends every second meeting. Through this agency the 
President and the students exchange viewpoints and the students bring 
questions and suggestions to the Administration.
This Committee has discussed many things and accomplished much 
during the past. Subjects range from the crowded front door at Mar­
garet Morrison to the Social Relations program and results include the 
abolition of the Saturday classes during the expedited summer program. 
Any or all students who have a suggestion, question or just plain gripe 
that he feels this group should consider may send it to them in care 
of the Tartan.
Re: Scotch And Soda
Apparently the Scotch and Soda Club is deader than we thought. We 
were under the impression that when a newspaper called a person lazy 
and incompetent, the American tradition dictated that the person horse­
whip the editor. Regarding last week’s editorial we have not received a 
feeble protest or even a note of explanation, much less a horsewhipping. 
We thought we might be able to build a fire under the S. and S., but 
we refuse to attempt to resurrect the dead.
Re: Books For Soldiers
A well-conceived and well-propagandized program that has shown 
poor results is the book drive. We aren’t going to repeat what has already 
been said about the urgency of this drive, but we want to plead to each 
student to bring in at least one book.
Re: Student War Effort
Here is what students in other colleges are doing:
More than 800 Smith College loan library books have been sent to 
Canada to be distributed in war prisoners’ camps.
Vassar college sophomores voted this year to give up class rings and 
buy war bonds instead.
Susquehanna university students in a three-day campaign sold $1,125 
worth of war bonds and stamps.
How long has it been since you bought a war stamp?
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
CMrnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 260« PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
MMUCNTID rom NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY„ , , c • » „ After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief............................SC. 98„
420 Madison ave. new TheCa n. ra Business Manager........................BR. 4759
BOSTON • Lot ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
PK/Ian óÌ^heSÌnior Fence
Entered as secona-ciass matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
F.ditor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor....................................................................................................... Jeanne King
Staff Photographer.............................................................................................................Lew Klein
EDITORIAL BOARD: Helena Aronson, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, E. Goldstein,
T. J. Harmany, Elaine Levin, Dave Neuss, Louisa Saul.
Sports Staff: Don French, Editor; Ashe Etkes, John Lindberg, Bill Beamer Stu Lee, 
Bill Ferguson.
Business Staff...................................Martha Wagman, Lee Greenwald, Lawrence Schutzer
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Racusin, Mort Cohn, Aron Beck, 
Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris 
Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton, 
Dorothy Rutkin Alen Schneider, Alice Softs, Mar gee King, Marty Gross, Dotty 
Greiner, Marshall Nurenberg. . __________________
For two years I’ve been wonder­
ing about the house over on Mar­
garet Morrison Street that serves 
as an experimental station for the 
Home Economics department. I 
went over to see Sally Gehrett, a 
senior in that department, and, after 
talking to her for about two min­
utes, I forgot all about the house.
Kappa Sally Gehrett, who is Pres­
ident of the Margaret Senate, said, 
“I always thought that when you 
became a senior, you could relax— 
but they don’t work it that way! I 
have never worked so hard in my 
life.”
But enough about the house, I 
want to tell you about Sally! She 
was very proud of her Senate. For 
one thing, it is absolutely free of 
any campus politics. She regrets, 
however, that it can’t make several 
progressive changes in Maggy 
Murphy itself. What is her fondest 
memory during the past four years? 
She answered that in a flash. Spring 
Carnival of two years ago! Why? 
“Pink champaigne out of blue glass­
es!” That seems to take care of that.
Immediate plans? She wants to 
work in a chemical laboratory for 
national defense. When she said that 
I noticed a flash in her eyes. And 
then I got the story. “Frankly,” she 
said, and then that light in her eyes 
returned, “I wanna get married!” 
The party of the second part has 
had his present standing for a long 
time, but Sally tells me that he is 
off to the wars these days.
“Dowager” Sally was a member 
of the Queen’s Court of this year’s 
Fall Carnival. As she said, “It was 
all most unexpected.” Unexpected! 
After knowing Sally for only a few 
weeks, I’d bet on her if she ran for 
the Supreme Court!
Some day I’ll find out about the 
Home Ec house on Margaret Morri­
son Street.
MISS SALLY GEHRETT
. . . she hates to cut classes . . .
Department of Music
To Give* Memorial Concert
The Department of Music will 
present the following concert by the 
Student Chorus and Orchestra, con­
ducted by Dr. Frederick Dorian, 
Wednesday, March 17, 1942, at 8:15 
P. M. in Carnegie Music Hall in 
memory of the late Harold Geoghe- 
han:
1. Prelude in B Minor.............Bach
2. Requiem ......................... Mozart
Requiem aeternam 
Lacrymosa
3. Mass in C minor (unfinish­
ed) ............................... Mozart
Kyrie eleison 
Gloria
4. Te Deum....................Bruckner
Soloists will be Isabel Munster,
soprano; Allison Meyers, contralto; 
Raymond Smolover, tenor; and Jack 
Manheimer, bass.
Tickets may be obtained in the 
music office, Room 153-Arts.
News Item—SWAC Is Giving Silver For Copper
ii. 'ft *»
OCT it! Witt 
M PITCH
VI 1 's
rtt

---------------------------------------------------

¦ .«gip 
pi °Vt* r«Ekartell
{ MlL°e* Berrei,heirlci,°n sWs „ C,*eR TACrt-)n,v ., 'ne'VS n;cf,„. “Oj£
, m cigarette . es andon.n,~ .
Bgww-a
Copyright
Act,'on shots *'T£R TheTWsW *Är* •«**««, and ,ASr*l^s£7
Chest*rfields urp A /Af/l*>Sfi. oWmnm
°”d ship 0„d pin e‘ng sAi*Pe<l 6y tr EB'Tast^G
rnf? more pCsure°kers evciîÎ ci«a-
;H£ C'G4Rfrrf £ 1 Waites,
îîï* SMo,ffRs
1943, ngit366 N or33. 2hf!tth Ox
TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Dave Lloyd drops his Red Cross donation to Dottie King.
Brad Hunt Will Play 
For Military Swing
This semester the Scabbard and 
Blade will again stage a military 
dance, known as the “Military 
Swing”, for all students at Carnegie 
Tech. The dance, to be held in the 
Men’s Gym on March 20, will fea­
ture the music of Brad Hunt.
Tickets are now being sold by all 
Scabbard and Blade members and 
will also be sold in the Beanery and 
Administration Building for $2.20 
per couple, including tax. One of the 
added features will be favors given 
to all who purchase tickets. Al­
though uniforms are not required, 
they are strongly recommended for 
all those in the Reserve Officers’ 
Training Corps.
Contrary to the procedure of pre­
vious years there will be no formal 
ceremony for Scabbard and Blade 
pledges nor will there be any hon­
orary officers appointed, since the 
pledges were’initiated last week. 
This “Military Swing” will be the 
first dance for the new members, so 
come on out and make it a success.
Student Artists Aid 
SWACS In Campaigns
Orchids are definitely in order for 
the Painting and Design committee 
of the Student War Activities Coun­
cil. Although P. & D. posters have 
been of vital importance for many 
worthwhile campaigns, this organ­
ization has received little recogni­
tion for its splendid efforts. No 
doubt all Carnegie students have 
noticed the excellent publicity 
which this committee has contrib­
uted for the book drive, the cam­
paign for pennies, and for war 
stamp corsages to be sold at the 
Women’s Guild Dance. Important 
visual material, such as maps and 
charts, have been given to discus­
sion groups.
Robert Lepper, the head of the 
Painting and Design Department 
and a member of the C. I. T. War 
Committee is faculty advisor of the 
group; Irene Waichler is chairman. 
Unfortunately, the speed with 
which these students must work to 
meet demands limits the artistic 
touch they would like to apply to
their work.
The members of the committee 
are Allen Rosenberg, who has work­
ed hard, Edward Golden, Eliot 
Twery, Marian Costa, Phillip Perl-
stein, Grace Dallas, and Peggy Cole. 
Special thanks is offered by the or­
ganization to Mr. Wilfred Readio, 
who has donated a special room for 
the committee’s use.
ALL OVER THE WORLD
America’s 900,000 aviation workers
combine their skill and experience to satisfy today's 
demand for vital war necessities. Thanks to our air­
plane makers, ground crews and pilots like Capt. 
Haakon Gulbransen (shown here), of Pan American 
Airways, needed supplies are flown to our fighting 
men all over the world.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1943
AU Carnegie Students 
Eligible for Local 
Oratorical Contest
An oratorical contest for high 
school and college students is being 
sponsored by the Pittsburgh Sun- 
Telegraph in conjunction with the 
Hearst newspapers. This contest, 
called “The Thomas Jefferson Bi­
centennial Oratorical Contest,” is 
operi to both men and women stu­
dents.
All the Pittsburgh finalists will be 
awarded War Bond prizes ranging 
from $25 to $250. The National win­
ner will be presented with a $1,000 
War Bond and a free trip to Wash­
ington, D. C., on April 13, the an­
niversary of the great statesman’s 
birth.
The preliminary trials to select 
Carnegie Tech’s representative in 
the contest will be held Thursday, 
March 18, at 1:30, in Ind. 235-A.
Students who want more informa­
tion or who wish to enter the con­
test should report as soon as possible 
to Mr. Parshall, Ind. 229-G.
Two Chinese Students 
Study Metallurgy Here
In accordance with the policy of 
good feeling between the United 
States and China, the latter country 
has sent thirty-two young men over 
here to study in our colleges and 
universities. Of these , two have 
chosen to attend the Metallurgy De­
partment at Carnegie Tech. They 
are Yuan Hsi Chou and Lo Ching 
Chang, graduate students in metal­
lurgy. Recently flown to this coun­
try under the auspices of the Nat­
ural Resources Committee of China, 
each has a President’s Scholarship 
which was given to them by Gen­
eralissimo Chiang Kai-Shek.
In perfect English, Mr. Chou ex­
claimed that he and his colleague 
are very much pleased with Tech. 
He says that the few modern schools 
which China had have been de­
stroyed, and the students work in­
dustriously in caves back in the 
mountains. Upon being asked why 
they chose Carnegie Tech, they ex- 
Continued on Page 7
RecfUt&i A/(uu
WHICH would you vote 
“most likely to succeed?”
"The Aircraft Warning System gives a single plane on ground 
alert the equivalent striking power of 16 planes on air patrol.” 
This startling statement comes from England.
Our country’s Aircraft Warning Service — quite similar to 
England’s — keeps a constant check on the flight of all aircraft. 
Should the need arise, it is prepared to send fighter planes aloft, 
to mobilize and direct ground defense forces, to warn endangered 
areas. Every step in its operation requires the fast, accurate 
communication of the telephone.
This is just one of the many wartime jobs that are keeping 
telephone lines busier than ever before. To help us keep lines 
clear for vital military and industrial calls, please avoid using 
Long Distance to war activity centers unless the call is urgent. And 
please keep all your telephone calls as brief as you can. Thank you.
W4Ç CALLS CO/Ht F/RSTf
American Men Invited 
To Union In London
College men who will be with the 
American Armed Forces in the Brit­
ish Isles are invited to register at 
the American University Union, 1 
Gordon Square, Bloomsbury, Lon­
don, W. C. I.
The Union, as in the last war, is 
a meeting place for both officers and 
men of university connections, and 
for their friends. It provides read­
ing and writing rooms, a complete 
file of current catalogues from both 
American and British universities, 
a lending library, and detailed in­
formation on educational opportun­
ities in Great Britain and Ireland.
Those who may desire to read in 
the British Museum, in the public 
Record Office, or in other archives, 
whether in the London area or out­
side, may obtain from the Union 
readers tickets which will enable 
them to begin reading on their day 
of application.
Programs of special courses are 
being conducted for American 
troops (on leave) during the cur­
rent academic year at Oxford, Cam­
bridge, and London universities may 
also be seen at the Union. Men ex­
pecting to be stationed near any of 
the British provincial universities 
can likewise find at the Union such 
edu*ational information as may 
meet with their individual needs.
Insufficient Support 
Stalls Red Cross Drive
With the Red Cross drive at the 
half-way point, Tech has collected 
so far only one-fourth of its $859.50 
quota. In order that Tech may real­
ize its quota, it is necessary that 
each student contribute fifty cents 
to the drive.
At present the showing made by 
the dormitories is very poor. Scobell 
Hall is the only boys’ dormitory that 
has made a contribution, and only 
half of the girls’ dormitories have 
handed in a part of their quotas. Of 
the fraternities and sororities, only 
Delta Tau Delta and Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon fraternities and Gamma 
Gamma Gamma sorority have 
reached their quotas.
Engineering Students 
Now to Be Deferred
National Headquarters of the Se­
lective Service System has changed 
its requirements for occupational 
deferment to include many students 
now attending Carnegie Tech. In ac­
cordance with the amendments of 
Occupational Bulletin No. 11, stu­
dents who will graduate by July 1, 
1945 and whose undergraduate 
work is in the fields of chemical, 
civil, electrical, mechanical (includ­
ing aeronautical, heating, ventilat­
ing, and air conditioning), and met­
allurgical engineering, chemistry, 
mathematics, or physics may be 
considered for occupational classifi­
cation upon successful completion 
of such courses of study.
This new ruling includes fresh­
men who entered in the semester 
beginning August 27, 1942. It is im­
portant, therefore, that freshmen 
carefully note the following instruc­
tions:
1. Freshmen who have been 
classified by their local boards in 
Class 1-A and freshmen who have 
returned their questionnaires to the 
local board but have not yet been 
classified are requested to report to 
the Office of the Director of the Col­
lege of Engineering immediately.
2. Freshmen who have not re­
ceived selective service question­
naires are requested to report to the 
Office of the Director of the Col­
lege of Engineering as soon as ques­
tionnaires are received.
Greek Sing And Swing 
Features Two Events
Thistle Hall will be host to the 
Tenth Annual Greek Sing and 
Swing this March 26 and 27. This 
year’s affair will set a precedent by 
presenting a two-day program.
A singing tournament among the 
Men’s and Women’s Dormitories, 
Fraternities, Sororities, and organ­
ized independent groups will be fea­
tured the evening of the twenty- 
sixth. Bernie Armstrong’s orches­
tra is scheduled to play at the dance 
the following evening, at which 
time winners of the various contest 
divisions will be announced and will 
sing.
--------ON THE RECORD---------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will present the fol­
lowing phonograph program:
Symphony in C-Major___Schubert
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of the fol­
lowing program:
Classical Chamber Music
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
WHY WALK A MILE
25 Feet to Barber Shop and Beauty Parlor. Courteous Service.
Campus Barber and Beauty Shop
Corner Margaret Morrison and Forbes Streets MAyflower 3921

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1943ÎÜE CARNEGIE TARTANè
. . . On the Camp
“On the Campus” is conducted for the 
benefit of the entire Tech student body. 
If you have any notices for the column, 
just type them up and drop in Tech P. O. 
Box 409 by Friday noon of the week be­
fore publication.
Chapel Today!
Today at 11:30, in the Little The­
ater, Pastor Louis Sittler of the 
Trinity Lutheran Church, North 
Side will speak on “Dead End Street 
or Highway?”
Bom in Nebraska, Pastor Sittler 
attended the Theological Seminary 
at the Capital University, Colum­
bus, Ohio. Before coming to Pitts­
burgh, he was pastor at Ohio State 
University and then chaplain at the 
, Ohio State Reform School for seven 
years.
Financial Aid Available!
j Carnegie Tech or Government 
scholarships and loan applications 
for students returning in May or 
August are now available in the Fi­
nancial Aid office, I. H. 246. They 
must be returned by April 1, to in­
sure prompt consideration. Interest­
ed students should see Dean Mur­
phy as soon as possible.
Special Notice To Local Bards !
This is final notice to all interest­
ed students. The “Bard,” publica­
tion of the Literary Honoraries, will 
close its offer to publish all accept­
ed work of students by March 15. 
The type of writing is un-specified, 
thus enabling you to use your own 
discretion. It can be a poem, short
US
story, essay or almost anything. 
Come on, chullun’, get in there and 
write!
I.R.C. Meeting
Who Are the United Nations? If 
there is any doubt in your mind, 
why not drop in Room 112 M. M. 
today and get the “low down?” This 
is the first of a series of five meet­
ings based on this subject, which 
promises many interesting debates. 
Civil Engineering Seminar
Tomorrow at 11:30 the “civil-ized” 
section of the Engineering College 
will hold a Seminar in Ind. 104. The 
program will consist of colored 
sound movies on the “Manufactur­
ing of Plywood From Douglas Fir” 
with a discussion period following. 
All Juniors and Seniors in this de­
partment are expected to attend. Be 
prompt!
S.W.A.C. Meets
Today, at 4:30, the Students War 
Activities Council is meeting in Arts 
107. All groups are requested to 
send a personal representative to 
participate in the discussion and to 
make this an all school affair. Come 
on, students, if you’re proud of your 
group you’ll have a representative 
there. And .this means you!
Open Discussion for Students
The Carnegie Students Discussion 
Group will discuss the topic “Four 
Freedoms After the War” today at 
12:30 in Ind. 229-C. This meeting is 
open to all. Why not take a chance 
and drop in? Why not?
• • •• • •
T°p Hat, MemoT WmThPK and tales
— Dots Dashes
by Dot: Greiner
Some of us gals will have to pull in our fangs when the contingent of 
service men hot foot on the hallowed ground of the campus, ’cause we hear 
that the policy regarding these lovely specimens of male humanity will be 
strictly one of hands-off. What we have ever done to deserve a blow like 
this has probably been very obvious right long. We women are allegedly 
disconcerting to members of the opposite sex; just why, is a military secret 
which isn’t going to be expressed until somebody finds a copy of “Personal 
Help for Designing Young Women” and turns to the chapter on mystic tech­
niques. Who’m I kidding anyway? We also show them the fastest way of 
tossing their money to the winds, they say, by wanting to go to the play at 
the Nixon instead of the play at the Arts Theatre (no offense to dramats), 
and by mooning at a taxi ’till the poor date reluctantly suggests taking one 
rather than riding the rails. Then we pretend that he has just demon­
strated superior intelligence in his coup-de-brain storm, and climb into the 
taxi contented as a cow. Most cows, however, don’t ride in taxis. To add 
insult to injury. It is also contended by military authorities that “wimmin” 
prevent men from thinking about their work—in its academic aspects, that 
is. The Tech co-eds feel something like an accident waiting to happen; 
they do not desire to interfere with the war effort unless it interferes with 
then first. The solution to this dire and pressing problem has been offered 
by the N. M. T. R. C. G.* organization which in importance is second only 
to the Girl Scouts. This committee says, “Wear your face guards and car­
ry your welding torch—just to keep things hot.” Well, it has its advan­
tages.
Have you ever heard this announcement on the radio? “I’m Madge 
Madison; I work in a Defense Plant, and consequently have grimy hands 
at the end of each day.” It all sounds like a lot of malarkey about a girl 
with an alliterated name and a pair of dirty hands—just another piece of 
propaganda. But we well know that it isn’t, for women these days mean 
business, even if it involves doing a man’s job. Who would ever have 
thought two years ago that our crop of Lux and Palmolive-using women 
would now be in the market for a caustic soap to wash the dirt of industry 
from their hands? They are doing a job that has heretofore been consid­
ered too difficult and fatiguing for members of the fair sex to attempt, but 
it seems that they’re fooling the experts, for home they come each day 
from having worked over a hot torch with no worse affliction than being 
able to sleep nights.
These preliminaries h^ve been leading up to a central point—the role 
we as college students can play, one requiring the least amount of effort, 
too. We must buy WAR STAMPS! This isn’t the first time you will be 
hearing this routine, nor will it be the last, for we’ll have to give, give 
until we’ve done our utmost toward promoting the war effort. Buying 
stamps may seem at the outset to be a very trivial contribution, but if every 
student at C. I. T. had an album completed, ready to be turned in for a 
bond, the contribution would not appear meagre. So come on and put 
your quarters and dimes on the counter and fill that stamp book for victory.
ROMANCE WINS! March 13 is 
the date for the weddings of Kappa 
Louise Phillips and Kappa Sig Bob 
Schwerin and that of Gamma Ginny 
Bruce and ex-T. X. President Dick 
Walker. And then on the 27th, our 
Jean West is weddin’ with a Pitt 
Pre-med!
WHAT WE WANT TO KNOW is 
all about Fred Rousseau’s mysteri­
ous correspondence through the 
Thistle office? The envelopes just 
say “Vassar” . . . Also we are won­
dering what Reid “Clumpo” Byers 
goes out to the cemetery so often 
for?
ZOOM! ALL OVER CAMPUS we 
see Marie Sunseri and Rich Arm­
strong. The same goes for “Honey” 
Volk and Chuck Troy.
MORE ROMANCE: Margie 
Woodburn visited Zeke Brill in 
Youngstown for the weekend prior 
to his induction . . . Little Peggy 
Cole is happy because her George is 
back ... We keep seeing Babs 
Burns and Clare Ramsey all around. 
Could be?
PIN SESSION for Ed Rudisill and 
Tina La Chimia ... But it was an 
engagement ring for Bunny Hanff 
and Pres. Doherty’s son, Jimmy. 
Guess Chuck Mundo served his pur­
pose . . .
WE ARE SORRY TO HEAR those 
nasty rumors that Jack Mighton and 
Patty Werner are breaking up that 
beautiful friendship.
BIG TIME OPERATORS are Kap­
pas Mary McCarthy, Sally Moir, and 
Ruth Beall. Madamoiselle ran their 
pictures in this month’s issue! (Page 
125) . . . And there’s Ed Goldstein 
with a write up in Charlie Danver’s 
column.
FUNNIEST STORY OF WEEK 
occurred when a freshman tore up 
to Doug Casbard and said, “Is your 
name A1 Platt?” How about that, 
Tistie?
FLASH! The military department 
needs a new secretary. The only re­
quirement is that she MUST be 
pretty . . . Flash! Kenny MacDon­
ald who faints at the sight of a 
needle, finally got around to giving 
his blood.
THOSE SMOOTH FRESHMAN 
GALS Jean Hyde, Marge Loeffler 
and Evelyn Kane know all about 
military secrets. At least all their
Let's go lo
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
‘National Movement To Répulsif y College Girls.
men are in the Army . . . And then 
there is Frankie Creelman, who was 
the guest of a PiKA for the Penn 
State Soph Hop!
MAKIN’ MONEY HAND OVER 
FIST was freshman dramat Lois 
Schweitzer of Birch Hall, who got a 
dollar per scream at the J. P. Har­
ris every time the trailer of “Frank­
enstein Meets the Wolf Man” came 
on. Among her funny experiences 
was the one where the man who had 
been sitting next to her went up to 
the usher and said, “Honest, I didn’t 
do a thing!”
Romeo and Juliet...
Continued from pape I
eluding a group donated by William
Poel.
According to the custom of the 
drama department all of the roles 
have been double-cast to afford ex­
perience to as many students as pos­
sible. Nearly every student in the 
department is connected with the 
production in some capacity, either 
acting or technical.
Since 1914 when the Carnegie 
Tech drama department was organ­
ized, the first in this country to 
grant a degree in this field, 29 of 
Shakespeare’s plays have been pre­
sented, a record equaled perhaps 
only by “Old Vic” in London. “Ro­
meo and Juliet,” although a Shakes­
pearean favorite, has been produced 
at Carnegie Tech only twice previ­
ously, in 1921 as a major production 
and in 1927 by members of the 
freshman class.
There will be sixteen perform­
ances including four matinees of 
the present production. The closing 
performance will be given March 27.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
*r+Nù"
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

êTHE CARNEGIE TARTÁNTUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1943
/Ia nó /Ìó^heaSih
The Week In Review 
;By Don French, Sports Editor-
Girls’ Basketball Takes Over
War has caused many changes, one of which is the replacing of men 
by women in the various occupations. In fact this effect seems to have 
fettled upon Carnegie Tech and it probably won’t be long before Lulu 
Bell and Rosie, training to become a riveter, will star in Tech’s basket­
ball lineup. As a start, the gay lassies have already staged their first 
varsity game and in true Tartan fashion of late, came out the losers. The 
victor, to the tune of 24-15 tally, was Mt. Mercy College. Although ham­
pered by the illness of Mary Pollis, the squad fought gamely with Bille Mc- 
Ilrath and Lola Patton playing an outstanding game. Scheduled to play 
both Pitt and P. C. W. in the forth-coming weeks, the girls are practicing 
under a rigid training program.
Band Indifferent
It seems a gay weekend looked too inviting for our coveted band. Al­
though they were not notified until Wednesday, they deemed other things 
more important than coming to the basketball finale and playing for the 
benefit of all. We hope they enjoyed their weekend.
Captains ElectedWith the ending of our two winter sports, came the election of their 
captains for the next season. The basketball players cast their votes in 
favor of Bob DeBortoli, this seasons first string guard. Even though se­
verely handicapped by a leg injury he had the highest score per number 
of shots than any other man on the squad.
Besides holding top honors in scoring, this year’s Captain, Dave Brinn 
really held the team together with his excellent teamwork and fighting 
spirit. In his last game of his college career last Saturday, he climaxed 
the season by scoring 12 points in the last ten minutes of play.
Precedence was broken last Saturday when the swimmers elected 
freshman Bill Feruson to lead them next season. Bill, a Westinghouse 
man with a near 4 point factor was a consistent winner on the team. Be­
sides being high point man, he broke the pool record in the 100 yard 
breaststroke against Western Reserve a week and a half ago.
Hoopsters Close Losing SeasonA terrific team on paper but even so the bitter results were 10 losses 
as against 4 wins. Heartbreaking losses seemed to take its toll upon the 
varsity after they lost three games by a total of a mere ten point mar­
gin. The result was a losing streak which lasted for the rest of the season.
Bowling and Volleyball 
Seasons Near Finish; 
D.T.D., Citcoms Lead
Bowling scores for this last week; 
the game between Delta Upsilon 
and Sigma Nu, a postponed match, 
was played off February 20th.
Citcom B ............... 3Delta Tau Delta... 3Scobell Hall.......... 3Sigma Nu.............. 2McGill Hall ..........3Pi Kappa Alpha... 3
Citcom A .............. 2Beta Sigma Rho... 3 Delta Upsilon___ 2vs.vs.
Boss Hall ...............0Theta Xi ..................0SAE ............................ 0Phi Kap .................. 1Alpha Tau Omega.. 0Kappa Sigma ..........0Delta Upsilon.......... 1Beta Theta Pi..........0
Sigma Nu ................. 1
The way things look now, it seems 
that the Beta Sigma Rho boys and 
the Citcom B gang are going to fight 
it out for the title of their league. 
League I. In League II, the Delts 
have overwhelmingly swamped all 
their opponents, not losing one game 
out of 15, to cinch the title of their 
league. The winner of the Beta Sig 
and Citcom B match will meet 
the Delts to decide who is going to
For Victory
Bowl for Health 
and Enjoyment
.cojggvo^
y>
orPFcKdPtl ^csKcatPor
New Alleys and 
Latest Equipment
On Craig Off Forbes
be the champs of this bowling sea­
son.
Volleyball
Among the volleyball teams there 
are only three teams that are un­
defeated so far. These teams are Cit­
com A, Citcom B, and McGill Hall. 
In League I, Citcom A and McGill 
Hall will play off to meet Citcom B 
as the likely contestants for the 
championship. The only undefeat­
ed team in League II is the Cit­
com B men. They highlighted this 
last weeks play by beating the 
PiKA’s 2-1. The Beta’s beat the 
Kappa Sigs to bring them from the 
ranks of the undefeated by a score 
of 2-1. Looking the volleyball situ­
ation over, it seems that the two Cit­
com teams, Citcom A and B will be 
the two teams to play off for the 
championship. Both of them are un­
defeated—promises to be a good 
game when they get together, if 
they do providing the Beta Sigs 
don’t upset this prediction.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT-------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE'
Near Craig Street
Picture taken after our swimmers had defeated Western Reserve. Everyone was 
happy and many of the squad were thrown into the pool. Judge for yourself what a 
victory will do for our mermen.
Swimmers Complete 
Disasterous Season, 
Summary of Results
The Carnegie Tech swimming 
team finished a rather dismal sea­
son in a final burst of glory by de­
feating Western Reserve 47 to 29 
after seven consecutive losses. In 
the first meet Oberlin triumphed 49 
to 26, and the next day Penn State 
won 43 to 32. The next meet was 
the 39 to 36 heartbreaker with West­
ern Reserve which was completely 
avenged in the final contest. Fenn, 
another Cleveland team, was the 
fourth conqueror and they won 43 
to 32. Scheid of Westminster es­
tablished a new pool record in the 
200-yard breaststroke as his team­
mates scored a 55 to 20 win over the 
Skibos. Case was the sixth oppo­
nent to aid the unlucky Tartans in 
maintaining their string of losses 
which was quite impressive by this 
time. The next to last contest was a 
57 ^ to 17 Vz slaughter in which the 
Carnegie men were unable to take 
first place in any event. The final 
meet with Western Reserve has al­
ready been mentioned.
Our team compiled 239 points 
during eight meets as our opponents 
gathered in 360^ markers, which 
shows that they were not out-scor­
ed 7 to 1 in points even if that was 
the ratio of losses to wins. The team 
was weakened first by the loss of 
all seniors, then by ineligibility, and 
finally by the grippe, sinus trouble 
and associated ailments.
Tech is planning to continue 
swimming next year if opponents 
can be found, and this should not 
be too hard because five meets are 
already completely or partly ar­
ranged. Predictions about next 
year’s teams would be foolish now, 
but we hope for the best.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
THE
PLACE TO EAT 
OAKLAND
-is-
BILL’S LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Cagers End Season; 
Lose To State, Geneva
By Asher Etkes
Closing an ill fated season, the 
Carnegie Tech basketball team fol­
lowed up its loss to Penn State 
earlier in the week by dropping 
their last contest to Geneva last Sat­
urday night at Skibo Gym, thus 
adding two more notches to their 
string of five straight defeats.
Starting the Geneva fray with a 
will to end the season on the right 
side of the ledger with a win, the 
Hannum men got off to a good start 
literally knocking the coventeers 
off their feet. As prosperity seemed 
to disagree with them (or vice ver­
sa) wild passes, poor shots and gen­
eral confusion followed with the ap­
parent result of points scored by the 
opposition. This proved more the 
fact during the second and third 
quarters as Geneva outscored Tech 
36-17.
The game started at a fast pace 
with both teams missing shots. Tech 
forged ahead 6-2, as Tom Culbertson 
made good on a one handed shot. 
Capt. Dan Visciarelli of Geneva 
quickly retaliated with a lay up 
shot. Three quick scores by Rayz, 
high man with 24 points, followed 
by Visciarelli’s two pointer sandr 
wiched Hughy Smith’s score and 
made the count 11-7 (lucky num­
bers) Geneva. Two efforts by the 
new captain Bob “DeBort” were not 
enough as the quarter ended 15-11. 
Things started popin’ (in Tech’s 
hoop) during the second period as 
the Co vies outscored the Skibos 19 
to 9, due to a 10 point spurt at the 
start of the period.
Tech proved a more capable foe 
to the “Gin”eva men during the sec- 
ong half as they managed to out- 
score them 31-30. Credit for this 
feat goes to the departing captain, 
Dave Brinn, who led the assualt 
during the fourth quarter with 12 
points. Tech scored 22 points dur­
ing this riotous stanza and had the 
crowd on it’s feet during the last 
Continued on page 8
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
i

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
... Council Minutes ...
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., March 2, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Dolan and Thompson
and Miss Gehrett.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget
Mr. Shewitz moved that the Cwen bud­
get for the Soph Hop proceeds be ac­
cepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that the budget for 
the Scabbard and Blade Military Ball be 
approved.
Motion carried.
Social
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
the Newman Club for the use of Thistle 
Hall on Friday, March 5, from 9 to 12, be 
approved.
Motion defeated.
It was moved that Council grant the 
Newman Club permission to use the Wo­
men’s Gym or the Art’s School Exhibi­
tion Hall for March 5, if they so desire.
Motion carried.
Assemblies
Mr. Culbertson reported that there was 
still an unassigned date for an assembly. 
He asked Council’s opinion on the idea 
of having Pitt’s new coach give a talk at 
this assembly. Anyone who has a sug­
gestion for this assembly is to talk with 
Mr. Culbertson and the Assemblies Com­
mittee.
Publications
Mr. Ross moved that unclaimed and un­
sold copies of the Thistle be kept on hand 
by the Thistle for five years, to be sold or 
given out upon receipt of an unused sub­
scription ticket; and those back issues
which are older than five year» be given 
to the Alumni Federation to be used in 
gathering contributions to the Endowment 
Fund.
Motion carried.
Points and Keys
Mr. Whiteside said that if the lists of 
keys of the various organizations are not 
turned in soon, it will be impossible to get 
them keys.
OLD BUSINESS
It was moved to accept the Constitution 
of the Carnegie Chapter of the United 
States Naval Reserve Corps.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Shewitz moved that $75 be placed 
in the hands of Mr. Murphy, which he 
can give out to the officers of the S. W.
A. C. to buy war stamp corsages to be 
sold at dances for the rest of this year. 
He is to receive receipts and therefore he 
can have constant check on this fund. 
Motion carried.
Mr. Jones moved that at any time a 
school publication conducts a straw vote 
on a poll at which the Student Body is 
privileged to vote, the Chairman of the 
Election Committee and the Chairman of 
the Publications Committee of Student 
Council shall be present at the counting 
of the ballots.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.
The meeting was called to order at 4:30 
p. m., February 26, 1943.
Absent: Mr. Heller, Mr. Sher, Mr.
Carnival To Feature 
Selection of Queen 
By Hollywood Actor
At last, students! You can stop 
pulling your hair and worrying 
about Spring Carnival. It’s going to 
be! The executive board has said 
“yes” and the date has been set. So 
reserve Friday evening, April 9 and 
all of Saturday, April 10, for this big 
occasion.
As yet all plans are not definite, 
but they are rapidly being complet­
ed, according to Chuck Jones, chair­
man of the carnival. A production 
by Scotch and Soda or some other 
similar organization will be given 
Friday night. On Saturday after­
noon a campus queen will be crown­
ed and the honoraries will tap new 
members. An informal dance will 
be held that evening and will fea­
ture a band that has not yet been 
selected.
Wjhiteside, and the Misses Bruce, Carver, 
and Zonge.
Mr. Galbraith appointed Mr. Jones as 
Spring Carnival Chairman. He asked for 
Council’s approval on the appointment.
Appointment approved.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.
The highlight of the Carnival will 
be crowning of the Queen to be se­
lected by a prominent Hollywood 
actor. Yes, girls, thats right. So 
get out all your glamour goo and 
petitions. Any girl is eligible who 
hands in a petition signed by ten 
boys and ten girls. The petitions 
must be in the Student Council Of­
fice by 4:30, Tuesday, March 16, and 
the preliminary election will be held 
before the end of that week. The 
pictures of the favorites will be sent 
to some famous Hollywood actor 
who will select from one of these 
pictures our Queen of Beauty.
The committee chairmen have 
been selected, but volunteers are 
still needed to work on these com­
mittees.
Chinese Metallurgists
Continued from page 4 
plained that the school has an ex­
cellent reputation in Chinese indus­
try, a tribute of which we may well 
be proud. Both Mr. Chang and Mr. 
Chou are hard-working and serious, 
a credit not only to their country, 
but also to their department. China 
expects these young engineers to 
play an important part in their war 
effort.
The favorite cigarette with men in the Navy, 
^ Army, Marines, and Coast Guard is Camel. 
(Based on actual sales records in Canteens 
and Post Exchanges.)
^ _ IN THE NAVY they say: £
II RPAii p|n0F%H UillTTI/ for the box a sailor uses to keep
for meal pennant w personal possessions
TOP SIDE' for the highest full deck CAMEL* for the Navy man’s favorite cigarette
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-S»lem, N. C.
’ CAMELS ARE 
TOPS WITH ME— 
they've GOT WHAT 
IT TAKES IN
RICH FLAVOR
AND
MILDNESS!
whcKc sPgaKcttcd aKc judgcd
The "T-ZONE"—Taste and Throat-is the 
proving ground for cigarettes. Only your 
taste and throat can decide which ciga­
rette tastes best to you...and how it affects 
your throat. For your taste and throat 
are absolutely individual to you.
Based on the experience of millions of 
smokers, we believe Camels will suit your 
"T-ZONE" to a "T." Prove it for yourself!

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1843artwit plaid
Louis Miller Named 
Secretary-Treas. of 
College of Industries
Lou Miller, Vice President of Sig­
ma Delta Phi, has recently become a 
very active and popular man on 
the campus. He is a member of Nu 
Sigma Alpha and Secretary-Treas- 
urer of Industries.
A stimulating and widely varied 
job as an operating metallurgist is 
his day-time occupation. Altogeth­
er different from the ordinary con­
ception of metallurgy, his work con­
cerns cast iron and non-ferrous met­
als rather than the steelmaking pro­
cess usually connected with metal­
lurgy. Linked up with his work are 
the courses he is taking at Tech, in 
foundry. This is his fourth year in 
Night School and his enthusiasm for 
the place has increased yearly.
Those now impossible camping 
trips, with the emphasis on fishing, 
used to be his main relaxation, but 
he also likes to swim and to dance. 
He is a lover of music and is an ac­
complished guitar player, spanish 
music and rhumbas being his favor­
ite. He is very enthusiastic about 
Tech dances and the parties that 
have recently been held and com­
mends highly the friendly atmo­
sphere at these affairs.
“Wet” Fun Galore At 
Council Party In Pool
The weather-man said snow, 
wind, cold, and ice, but this did not 
keep a crowd of enthusiastic sport­
sters from attending the Council 
Swimming Party Saturday, March 
6.
The party was held in the Gym­
nasium Building in the beautiful tile 
pool. The heated rooms and cold 
water made for rigorous swimming. 
No races were held, as experts 
would have had a time deciding the 
winner.
There was, however, quite a dis­
play of “sightly” diving by all the 
swimmers. The idea was that the 
person to make the biggest splash 
would be the champion. What a 
time!
Water basketball was the hit of 
the evening. “Cookie” Knoll was a 
very charming forward, making 
many goals for her winning team. 
Of course, the game was no push­
over, because some of the opponents 
were Ed Williams and Peggy Ken­
nedy. After swallowing* half the 
pool, Ed felt it was time to call it 
quits. As a matter of fact, all the 
players were quite water-logged by 
that time and were only too eager 
to stop for a while.
After the swimming, everyone 
went bowling at the University Rec­
reation Alleys. Here, the champion 
was Frank Stepka, who can really 
“knock ’em down.” Strikes and 
spares were none too few as “Mitzi” 
Kitchen rolled six or eight of them 
all by herself. The others were pret­
ty good, too, as the totaled scores 
showed.
By this time people were begin­
ning to look worn-out and hungry, 
so they all trooped off for home.
From Bob King’s unintelligible 
and unusual conversation last week 
methinks he spent the first part of 
the evening with Bob Burns’ “Uncle 
Zeke” (that’s one of his drinking 
uncles) ... If Ches Biscup doesn’t 
soon make that promised trip to the 
“map makers” we’ll just die—lots 
of space to print it, but no picture 
of Ches . . . Gee Whiz—with the so- 
called shortage of men wouldn’t you 
think that A1 Etchison could find a 
girl, somewhere, to date him. May­
be things aren’t that bitter yet “for 
the gals” . . . Ed and Virginia 
Tiepel were a welcome sight at the 
Frat party—haven’t seen much of 
them since Ed switched to Pitt— 
The Grande’s, the Markes’ and the 
Hurtt’s?? also found time to attend 
. . . Aside to Ed McDonald—if any 
of your play money is missing I’d 
suggest you investigate A1 Flanders 
—I’m sure I saw him pocket some 
of it . . . The Social Committee and 
Plaid Staff are anxiously awaiting 
John Hundertmark’s party — inci­
dentally, John, how does your head 
feel after all the bumps it received 
while retrieving the ping pong balls 
the other Saturday in the Union? 
. . . Bill Hurtt leaves on Wednes­
day for the Air Corp—His friends 
held a bang-up “going away” party 
for him in the Schenley Hotel last 
Saturday Night . . . Horrall Har­
rington leaves soon for the Seabees 
—His wife Jocelyn (Pearsall to most 
of you) has taken training and will 
soon be a U. S. O. worker . . . We 
wonder about the punctuality of Mr. 
Hush—wonder boy metallurgist of 
the Cyclops Steel Company and Car­
negie Tech—who passed out cigars 
to Physical Met Students over the 
head of a new arrival—the catch is, 
the free cigars in February were for 
a baby born in December . . .
Books Needed for 
Our Fighting Men
To those who have not been called 
to arms, we wish to explain why the 
boxes have been placed in the halls 
of the various Tech buildings. Our 
boys at camp should have complete 
civilian support in everything that 
will be of benefit to them. At the 
present time, there is a nation-wide 
drive for the purpose of securing 
good reading matter to aid the sol­
diers in making good use of their 
time during hours of recreation. 
This is one way of keeping up the 
morale of these fighting men and 
we all know the importance*of doing 
just that. All of us should be grate­
ful for the opportunity of helping 
wherever and whenever we can.
To give books, books that are both 
interesting and educational, will 
give all of us a fine chance to show 
the men of our armed fbrces that 
we really appreciate the great sacri-
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order 
at two-thirty P. M., February 7, 1943. 
All members present. Mr. Biscup 
who replaced Armybound Bob 
Aungst as Vice President of the 
College of Engineering, and Mr. 
Louis Miller, new Secretary-Treas- 
urer of the College of Industries, 
were welcomed into Council.
NEW BUSINESS
The point system was under con­
siderable discussion, with the fol­
lowing outcome as motioned by Mr. 
Kerstukas: A student does not have 
to earn the required number of 
points as of previous years, but will 
be awarded an insignia if he has 
earned a minimum number of points 
in ratio of the number of points 
available this year to the number 
available in previous years.
Mr. Marcinizyn is to head a com­
mittee composed of Mr. Flanders 
and Mr. Macha to meet with the 
business manager of the Tartan in 
order to decide on the amount to 
be paid for the Plaid portion of the 
newspaper.
Considerable discussion centered 
about the Enigneers’ Banquet. Due 
to rationing and decrese in enroll­
ment it was thought that a smoker 
could probably be substituted. How­
ever, a committee consisting of the 
officers of the College of Engineer­
ing will decide all issues at a spec­
ial meeting.
Plans were discussed for parties 
on March 6th and 20th in the Car­
negie Union, as well as a dance on 
April 3rd in Thistle Hall.
Discussion concerning the hand­
books followed. A saving of the ter­
rific expense of having a new hand­
book printed every year was sought. 
It was thought that a small supple­
ment could be printed every year 
instead of the regular handbook. 
Mr. Macha was appointed to look 
further into the matter and suggest 
any change that may be feasible at 
the next meeting.
Adjournment at five-thirty P. M.
Respectfully submitted,
Edw. A. Macha, 
Council News Reporter.
Tech Loses Last Fray
Continued from page 6 
few minutes cheering the team on. 
The “goal” asked for, and achieved 
was the 50 point mark. Since the 
final score is still the thing they pay 
off on, Geneva won 64 to 51.
Last Wednesday, the Carnegie 
Tech cagers were routed by Penn 
State, 65 to 28 at State College. 
Everything tried went wrong as the 
fast State quintet broke time and 
again through our zone defense to 
score. Jack Biery established a new 
State scoring record of 22 points. 
Hugh Smith was high man for Tech 
with 9 points.
fices they are making for us. Don’t 
you feel that a few good books plac­
ed in the boxes in the halls is a 
small matter compared to the blood 
these boys are giving to protect us 
hore at home?
We have been asked to remember
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening scnool Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School staff.
Editor Nancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost
Albert Flanders Mary Hensler John Hundertmark Edwari A. Macha Robert Bassett
StaffS. W. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew. Jt. Pearl Pettola Robert Poznanski Albert Kersturkos
Observed Third 
Anniversary on Feb, 27
Celebrating their third anniver­
sary, Sigma Delta Phi held an an­
niversary dinner party at the Car­
negie Union, February 27. The 
members and friends had a very en­
joyable time. Everybody, even 
those who had never tried it before, 
played ping pong with enthusiasm. 
The few lucky souls played cardsrpr 
roulette with zest. Too, a few cou­
ples were caught sneaking in a last 
dance as the clock struck twelve.
A delicious chicken a-la-king top­
ped off the evening.
Sigma Delta Phi was organized 
February 24, 1940 starting wjth 
about twenty-five charter members 
and now has about forty-five mem­
bers, including those with our arm­
ed forces. This was the first social 
fraternity on the campus to include 
both day and night students amolig 
its members.
Sigma Delta Phi called to its 
ranks Charles C. Colyer, Jr., Alan
D. Etchison, Albert C. Flanders, and 
Joseph M. Rymar. These men were 
pledged into the fraternity at this 
affair.
MARY JO WEBER ... a new­
comer to the Evening School cam­
pus but still one of the most ac­
tive ... A full 110 lbs. of feminine 
charm, 5 ft. 5 in. tall with blonde 
hair and green eyes ... Is register­
ed in the College of Industries, tak­
ing secretarial studies . . . Has had 
several jobs . . . Working at pres­
ent for W. A. Stoeltzing—Empire 
Building . . . Received hher pri­
mary and High School education at 
St. Raphael’s and graduated in 1939 
. . . Has attended Night School at 
Peabody, Schenley and Pittsburgh 
Academy . . . Interests include let­
ter writing, sewing and having fun 
. . . Hopes to get a degree someday 
—even if its “Mrs.” . . .Is one of the 
most faithful and talented Plajd 
workers — her interests running 
mostly to the writing and reporting 
of the Eight-Ball (gossip) column 
... Is one of the first students to 
be invited, under a new plan in­
augurated by Council to ask active 
students to attend discussions, to sit 
in our future Council meetings.
that the request is for good books, 
not ones which are dull and unin­
teresting and in bad condition. Do­
nate a book that you have read 
yourself and that you know will be 
worthy of the time and attention 
of our courageous young men.
