ttUbUSHED-UEEKLBBTUDEflTS
OfTHE
(AmE(ilE-TEflini(AL-S(H®Li^S
tUbSHE DtFEBRUARY 16, 1910-SHKEL BT
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TAKTAN
^0X03^X03^X0X0X0%0X0%0%0%0*0*0X0X0£ 
$ p 
O THE RITTENHOUSEl
0------------------ --88
Affords Superior Facilities for 0 
Serving Dinners, Balls | 
and Banquets. g
*_ o
&
The Ball Room floor is cushioned g 
making it perfect for dancing. *0
 1 ?- -f. .?_f. .t. »9« A »f« »Tg if « gf« «f« »fitft A iff iTl ItiSt Jaaltill rTg ftSt fetfl22TTTTTHE2TTTTviVVTVVVvVVT2TfTTTTTTT
*0«o*
go?o«0X8o«0«g
0
1 0 * a x ö « 0 « 
8 0
Special Inducements to Students g 
of Carnegie Tech. gM
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE—
« 3« *%0%0%0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0S0%0X0X0
IROQUOIS ßLO
Where all the “TECH BOYS” go.
A Gold Enamel Tech Button free with all pur­
chases of $3.00 and over.
Open Evenings
k.r¿7Q
c?i?i?i?««
AA««i?ß17
a
If you want to be well drest let us be your J£ 
^toggers’’ i?
SOCIETY BRAND SUITS & OVERCOATS « 
$20. — $22.50 — $25. — $28. — $30. «
Stetson, and Crofut-Knapp Hats—$3. and $4.
McILWAINE’S
434 WOOD STREET 
509 MARKET STREET 
542 LIBERTY AVENUE 
Swell Haberdashery - Every Day Prices
SiSiSÎSttÜÎSÜÎSiSiïtti5i5ÏSttOttÜÜÎSÎSÜi5ÜÜÎSiSiSi5ÜÔÎ5i5i>£ïî
>:^0O0C00C^0000e00000D0000ce?00C000:C
MR. ADVERTISER
Do you really know the advertising 
value of a school paper? Do you 
realize that Carnegie Tech is the larg­
est technical school in .the United 
States—not going to be any more, but 
IS? Do you realize that 2500 students 
are enrolled here—enough to make a 
good sized town with no children or 
old people? Do you know that The 
Tartan is its only student paper and 
appears 36 times during the school 
year? Now, Mr. Advertiser, don’t you 
think it would pay to let these young 
money spenders (three-fourths are 
men) know what you have to sell? For 
rates address
BUSINESS MANAGER TARTAN,
6117 KIRKWOOD STREET
EAST END, PITTSBURG, PA.
fit ¥ ¦5»,11/ I W 
*. J »
****** *
JACQUES 
DANCING ACADEMY
$ COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
/ PITTSBURG, PA.
£ Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley.
X CLASSES TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY AND
& SATURDAY
2ft Private Lessons Daily
W^NN^NNVWSWWWWWVW^WW \VW\V
G*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*0* n X* 0
BRACE BROS. %VX
% Launderers, Cleaners and | 
i, Dyers
g 608 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsb'jrg.
É00000000000Omcemce30*33^^0O0000000
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
ft 6102 Penn Avenue, East Liberty •£
0 Xft Both Phones. 4»0 X
i^C^O+C^O+O4*04-04*04-04^4«0+04*0«l*0<*04»0+0
YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. IV
®(\c Partati
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1910Number 19
A WRITTEN ADDRESS TO THE STUDENTS OE THE CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
BY DR. H. SCHAPPER.
(The following article on the subject of Esperanto is 
Fellow Students: —
With pleasure I seize the opportunity to address 
you, hoping thus to reach the greatest number of you, 
and to find you at your leisure more so than I could 
were I to speak- to you.
No one but the student, and the teacher (who was 
a student himself, and is a student all his days) can 
realize so well the severe task that makes strenuous 
the life of the earnest student (and our school au­
thorities take good care that we have here none but 
earnest students). Being myself in the midst of it 
all, I do therefore know how little spare time you 
have at your disposal, and how ingenious you have 
to be to make use of your free moments intelligently 
and profitably. I should consider it a crime if anyone 
would induce you to waste the few free hours that 
are so miserly alloted to you. Supposing that such a 
reproachable undertaking could succeed. I admit it 
would be difficult to determine beyond doubt what, in 
every case, is to be considered as profitable (taking 
the word in the widest sense). But there are cases 
where you can see on the face of it, if a thing con­
tains that which of necessity will make it the pursuit 
of serious, high-minded, wide-hearted people of high­
er or mediocre education, and inspire them with 
warm and noble enthusiasm.
I come to you with a proposition which, in case 
you accept it, will mean a thoughtful sacrifice of 
some of your free time. From what I have just said 
you will give me at least the credit that I honestly 
believe in my proposition as a true one, and worthy 
of the sacrifice I am exacting from you. But I am 
quite sure that I am not mistaken this time, as the 
cause for which I want to gain your support has al­
ready proved its right of existence.
earnestly recommended to the student body.—Ed.)
To say it squarely: I have no less ambition than 
to recruit you for the study and propogation of 
Esperanto, the international auxiliary language.
This is the crucial point of my address, and I am 
glad to have arrived at it so quickly, for you wnl 
thus see that I do not intend to deceive. I say 
it is the crucial point, because I know that those who 
are prejudiced will leave me right here without a 
further hearing. It is too bad for both parties. And 
yet, in spite of this, my human nature asserts itself 
strongly, and it makes me hope that some will hold 
for a while in check their prejudices until I will have 
finished—which is all I want. For by that time, I 
am sure, they will be convinced, and I shall have 
them on my side. Such is the natural history of 
prejudice. Its only remedy is reasoning, and in order 
to induce reasoning there must be pleading.
I said my intention is to get your co-operation for 
the cause of Esperanto. But I must first prove to 
you that there is a demand for an international 
auxiliary language, and only after convincing you of 
this can I speak about Esperanto and make you see 
why Esperanto, and none other, is to be the inter­
national language. Granted I have succeeded in 
these points, it still remains for me to answer the 
question which you undoubtedly will throw at me: 
“Now, and what of it? What have we, as students, 
got to do with it?” It will be the main point in my 
thesis to bring out clearly that it is up to the student 
body to pay serious attention to the problem of an 
international auxiliary language, and to its solution, 
which is—Esperanto!
I think we may assume without fear of contradic­
tion that mankind has long ago reached the stage 
of a lively interest in affairs international and cos­
mopolitan, although never before to such an extent,

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
and not in such a friendly spirit as at the present 
day. But the problem of mutual understanding be­
tween different peoples has started, we can easily im­
agine, from the time when tribes of different lang­
uages have first approached one another with other 
than beligerent intention. However, records of an 
intelligent attempt to devise means towards a mutual 
understanding between nations in Europe dates back 
to the seventeenth century. In those days travel was 
necessarily limited and slow, so that the need for an 
international language was not so keenly felt. Never­
theless, the learned world of the middle ages had its 
international language: Latin; later on the political 
world introduced its international language: French; 
and philosophers busied themselves with the solution 
of the problem on a grander scale. Their idea was to 
invent a universal system of writing, such that any­
one of no matter what nationality should be able to 
read and write it. For although the spoken languages 
differ among themselves, yet a thought maintains its 
meaning no matter in which tongue it be expressed. 
The solution of this problem, which goes by the name 
of Pasigraphy, is still waiting, notwithstanding„the 
many ingenious and laborious attempts made by 
many men during the last three centuries. The only 
branch of human knowledge that seems to have 
solved this problem is Mathematics (and in a more 
restricted sense, Music also), so that a man, no mat­
ter of what language, may write on a mathematical 
subject using nothing but symbols, and he is under­
stood by the whole mathematical world. (“Le formu­
laire mathématique” is the official organ for this 
mathematical Pasigraphy.) In this manner much 
labor, paper, and space is saved.
We must admit that Pasigraphy would be a fine 
thing, for through its help we should be able to cor­
respond with anyone without the necessity of know­
ing any other but our own language. But, supposing 
this problem solved, it still remains the need for a 
spoken international language, because we are globe­
trotters, with us distance does not count, we are no 
longer provincials, we are learning to look upon this 
earth as our universal home. Commerce, industry, 
science, art, literature, etc., and humanity create for 
us the necessity of international intercourse. With 
us an international means of mutual understanding, 
both in writing and through speech, is a necessity, 
a real necessity, no idealism as it was more or less 
with our forefathers; because it is again with them 
that the problem of an international spoken language 
has started. For about tnree hundred years many 
men have struggled with this problem, too, and 
luckily here the solution has been attained. Not 
more than two men have succeeded in this, and the 
success of one of them being but half. Those of us 
who have penetrated some into the spirit of a few 
languages will realize what hard work Genius had on 
hand in meeting the task of creating a language to 
meet all conditions that an international language 
must fulfill in order to live, and find adheernts every­
where.
Some of you might ask: “Why this vain labor? Are 
there not enough languages to select from, and to
appoint one of them as the international language? 
Isn’t English the language for this purpose?” All ex­
perts, and all those who know something about for­
eign languages agree, without an exception, that 
there is no national language, classical or modern, 
that would not be too hard for anyone to fully master 
in a short time, besides his own mother-tongue. 
Aside from this difficulty there is also an ethical 
aspect of the problem, leaving out of consideration 
the political part of the question. We must not for­
get that it is in a friendly spirit that we strive to­
wards a universal means of mutual understanding. 
How then, we must ask, can one even nourish the 
thought of having his language imposed, directly or 
indirectly, openly or hidden, on the rest of the world? 
It is a fact that every nation is proud of its language 
and literature, and it will struggle to the last against 
any foreign impostor ( Look to Austria, as an in­
stance). I think the humane element is too much 
neglected, only the political reasons being considered 
why a national language could not become interna­
tional. Never, never can a national language become 
international so as to serve the world! From every 
standpoint it can be shown that this assertion Is 
inviolably true. It is significant that in England the 
Esperanto movement is perhaps more flourishing 
than in any other country with less pretentions to an 
international recognition of its language. It is also 
significant (a sad significance though) that in our 
own counry, in America, there are a few people who 
still dream of English becoming the international 
language. This denotes narrowness from every point 
of view.
There is no doubt that we need an international 
auxiliary language, and there is no doubt that no 
national language can, or ever will, fulfill this of­
fice, because no national tongue fulfills the conditions 
we must impose upon an international idiom. The 
grammar of such a language must be the easiest and 
simplest imaginable, and its syntax such that any or­
der of the words in a sentence be permissible so as 
to convey the correct meaning independently of the 
nationality of the user; there must be no exceptions 
to any of the few rules, and no irregular forms; the 
language must be phonetic; easy to pronounce; 
melodious; rich and flexible; it must contain all the 
international roots possible, and it must be elastic 
enough to allow growth and expansion.
Had it been for the grammar alone, that is if the 
only condition to be fulfilled were an easy and 
simplified gramma,r and phonetic spelling, the prob­
lem could have been considered as solved by the 
appearance of “Volapiik”. But this language had 
solv6d the problem but half, and as soon as Es-
THE JUNIOR PROMENADE. 
THE RITTENHOUSE.
FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIRST
* * * * ? * * * ? * * ?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
peranto has come into the world it gained its ad­
herents even from among those who before were 
ardent students of Volapiik. The author of Esperanto 
had his language invented independently and without 
knowing of the existence of Volapiik.
The ease with which Esperanto can be acquired, 
its unquestionable beauty and its perfect elasticity 
mark it as being truly the work of Genius. Es­
peranto counts among its adherents most of the great­
est men of the day. The majority of international as­
sociations have accepted Esperanto as the official 
language of their congresses. Think of an inter­
national congress with representatives from among 
all of the civilized peoples! Very few are able to un­
derstand and to speak all the important foreign 
languages that might be used at such a gathering. 
As a matter of fact interpreters are always employed 
to translate the speeches into at least three of the 
more important languages. Think of the loss of time, 
of misunderstandings and bad feelings at such con­
ventions, and all this because of the lack of a uni­
versal language. As in all other cases so here, too, 
Esperanto helps wonderfully.
If men who are acknowledged as great by the 
whole world; if men of business; men engaged in 
serious work; serious men of all stamps, trades, and 
professions; if even governments consider the ques­
tion seriously and send official delegates to the Es­
peranto congresses—in face of all these facts we can 
have no patience with the person who would ignorant­
ly discourage those who work for the cause of Es­
peranto.
Some maintain that a “manufactured” language 
must needs be mechanical, and lack the beauties of 
a national language; and, furthermore, who can tell 
but tomorrow another “manufacturer” might spring 
up with a new product. Oh, ignorance! Why do 
some people not take the trouble to think for them­
selves, to investigate for themselves, and not to 
imitate in the manner of parrots? Esperanto is one 
of the most beautiful languages we possess, which it 
clearly ought to be, because it is the product of logic 
and not the result of fancy and chance. Those who 
know assure us with powerful logic that Esperanto 
is the last word in the inventing of new languages. It 
has taken three hundred years of effort until Es­
peranto was born, and the vast literature it already 
possesses, the hundreds of Esperanto journals, and 
the many authors all over the world who write in 
this langauge, is reason enough not to forsake it for 
“improved” or “reformed” Esperantos which adver­
tise themselves once in a while. People who can 
bring no more than a grain should be pious enough 
not to try to throw the Master down, because such 
an act brings their littleness too much out in relief. 
From the very elasticity of Esperanto it follows that 
improvements can always be made—not by every ir­
responsible individual. Similar to the “Academies” 
that regulate the national languages of the different 
nations, an “international academy,” comprising au­
thorities in the field of linguistics, has recently been 
appointed to regulate the international auxiliary 
language Esperanto. So there is no fear from the
side of the petty “reformers” in Esperanto—a lot of 
narrow people who wish to become “famous” at any 
cost.
Some people fear that Esperanto might w'eaken the 
study of the national languages. The best we can 
do is to leave them a prey to their fears until they 
will have grasped the import of Esperanto. We may 
perhaps gently remind them that language is only 
a means to an end.
Others ask what is Esperanto to them? They never 
go abroad, so that they will never have any use for 
it. While it is undoubtedly true that Esperanto, like 
everything else, is only for those who need it, yet 
attention is to be called to the fact that Esperanto is 
of value beyond the small needs of the individual, for 
it aims at the lofty ideal to serve as an instrument 
in the hands of mankind towards a bond of universal 
brotherhood. Even if we stay at home all during our 
life, yet we can put ourselves, through the blessed 
gift of writing, in communication with any civilized 
person no matter how far and peculiarly different 
from us. In this rests to a great extent the fascinat­
ing possibilities that are opened to us through the 
study of Esperanto; to enable us to correspond with 
any civilization on earth.
I purposely ^eave out the thousand and one facts 
of the commercial and industrial utility Esperanto 
has already attained, for I do not want to win you, 
students, on a bread and butter basis.
The student has always been the bearer of the 
ideals of life, and it is only proper that the student 
should be the paramount factor in a work of such 
international importance as is Esperanto. The 
spreading of Esperanto should lie entirely in the 
hands of the student body of the world. What a beau­
tiful work for the student, and of what great pleas­
ure! How different is the task of the students in 
Russia, for instance. They give their lives for the 
cause of emancipation of that small portion of man­
kind living within the borders of Russia—not one 
whit different were the actions of the student body in 
uermany during the period of struggle for national 
freedom, and emancipation. Happily enough there 
are no such sad problems to agitate our student body, 
thus being able to help carry the torch of universal 
illumination and to spread its sacred beams among 
the whole of the human family: a mutual understand­
ing! Understanding releases compassion and toler-
JUNIOR PROM.
FEBRUARY 21, 1910 
Rittenhouse

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
ance, and widens our horizon from every point of 
view.
Sports are all right. I am myself actively engaged 
in sports, so that I know more than from mere theory. 
And I would suggest that sports, although undoubted­
ly putting us in good bodily “trim,” are utterly in­
sufficient to engage our attention exclusively. To 
be in good “trim” is only a means to an end: it is 
what we need in order to be able to engage in work 
worthy of beings of intelligence. Sports, literary so­
cieties, clubs, fraternities and similar associations, 
are too local, too exclusive, and of limited interest. 
\vnat we want is something, vast, lofty, something to 
fill our souls to overflowing with noble enthusiasm, 
and to inspire thoughtful action. If an action that 
makes for universal understanding, for a friendly 
appreciation of the nations of the wrorld, for an actual 
exercise of the sentiment which is dormant in every 
human breast, that is the brotherhood of mankind, 
which only after recognizing this voice of our heart 
can we hope for a true fulfillment of our mission on 
this earth—if an this be not ideal, then what is 
ideal? One of the most potent tools, perhaps the 
most potent, to reach this aim is undoubtedly Es­
peranto. And it is not a thing that need take years 
and years for its completion; if we all but want, and 
within a few months the whole world is Esperan- 
tistic.
The students begin to see more and more their post 
in the concert of the world; and the holy office of 
Esperanto among mankind has impressed them great­
ly and reminded them of their role in this sacred 
affair.
The “Universala Studenta Unio” (the universal 
student association) has been recently formed, and 
its aim is (as it naturally ought to be) to bind to­
gether the student body of the world, and to win 
every student to the cause of Esperanto. The head­
quarters of the U. S. U. are in Budapest, Hungary. 
An unparalleled activity will soon start from there. 
The hopes of the Esperanto world are great, and its 
expectations keen.
Fellow students, I leave it to yourselves to draw 
the conclusions. I sorely realize it how weak my ex­
position is, how insufficient, how incomplete, and how 
little clear. Were it not that I thought of your keen 
imagination, your lofty idealism, and your indulgence,
I never would have had the courage to write this 
address. If I have failed to convince you of the 
greatness of the cause of Esperanto, I know it is en­
tirely my fault. For this reason I would ask you to 
inquire for yourselves, get more complete informa­
tion, and so become convinced that my efforts are not 
groundless.
The “Esperanto Society of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools” has been formed but a very short time ago, 
and those students who had a chance to hear a few 
appropriate words concerning the matter, are now 
enthusiastic members. I trust that you all will now 
take it up, and so get ahead of the other schools in 
the country, and be among the first student Es­
peranto societies in our schools.
The “Esperanto Society of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools” is bound to become one of the most im­
portant of all the student organizations in the school, 
because it stands for the furtherance of the final ideal 
of mankind: to remove the obstacle that stands in 
the way of a successful co-operation in the problems 
of life on this earth
NIN ETEEN-THI RTEEN NIGHT.
The “First Informal.”
Everything’s ready for the “hop.” Are you cornin'? 
The Social Committee has been working over time, 
completing plans and selling tickets besides plotting 
helical curves, and reading some on heat theoretics. 
The indications and predictions are for a big night. 
Inasmuch as the date is February 22nd, Washing­
ton’s Birthday, appropriate decorations will be in 
evidence, and very pretty dance programmes have 
been selected and ordered. At the outset, the ticket 
scheme met with much criticism. Howrever, it is 
the best, undoubtedly, since it is the surest way to 
make the first affair a success. Can we make it a 
success? Was the theater-party-banquet a success? 
Let every man display his social spirit, now, which 
was so much in evidence that evening, and which 
was wholly responsible for the enjoyable time spent. 
Let him make it possible for his fellow-workers to 
meet his “outside-of-school” friends. Remember, it 
is an effort well spent. Friendship is a safe invest­
ment. So get busy, and tell your friends to tell 
their friends, who are yours as well.
N. B.—The Class tenders every Tech man a most 
hearty invitation.
ATTENTION GLEE CLUB!
At a meeting of the club held last Sunday, Wil­
bur P. Gettman was elected Manager of the Club, 
and Harry A. Woellmer, Secretary and Treasurer 
since both of these offices were left vacant by the 
resignation of their former occupants. The Club’s 
future prospects have been seriously clouded by the 
recent disturbances in management, and if the 
troubled skies are to be cleared of dark clouds, let 
every member rally around the new manager and 
give him the confidence necessary to make his work 
effective. The attendance at the past few rehearsals 
has been very poor, and must improve before the 
new manager has the confidence to arrange more 
dates for the club’s appearance.
On next Sunday afternoon at 2:30, both Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs will rehearse for the concert to be 
given the following Monday evening at the Armory. 
The new Director of the Club will be present, and it 
is therefore necessary for every member to put in 
appearance to show him that the Clubs mean busi­
ness. The new manager is working hard, and will 
have news of other concerts and trips.
EVERY MEMBER BE PRESENT AND SHOW HIS 
LOYALTY TO A TECH ORGANIZATION.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
**•
I
M. M. C. S.
THE TAIL.
After dinner on winter evenings a favorite pastime 
of my sister was tearing off long strips of news­
paper and pinning them surreptitiously on the backs 
of the older members of the family. I had only just 
been initiated into this pleasure and did not yet 
know the knack of bending the pin, and then putting 
it in. Consequently, when I pinned my first tail to 
my big brother, I crept softly up behind his chair 
and then jabbed—the entire length of the pin!
The conclusion of this incident is best passed over 
in silence. G. Cushwa—’12.
The Glee Club has been at work for some time 
preparing for a concert to be given at some future 
date—probably in May. The songs are all pretty 
and well suited to the voices of the Club.
Last Tuesday our school was visited by Mr. Her­
rick, of the William Penn Vocational High School, 
in Philadelphia, who expressed himself well pleased 
with the course of studies given here.
Later in the week one hundred women, wives of 
the Brick Manufacturers, came in special cars to 
visit our school. They were shown through by mem­
bers of the Faculty and some of the Senoir girls, 
who explained the system at length.
Absence makes the marks grow rounder.
Miss Shook, at Heinz’s factory—“Look! canned 
pie!”
Miss Lyon—“What else about tapioca?”
Plebe—“What else do you want me to tell you?”
Silently, one by one,
In the record books of the teachers,
Blossom the little zeros—
The forget-me-nots of the Seniors.
—Exchange.
WHITE FRIAR TRIALS. FEB. 22, 2:30.
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY TO MEET HERE.
A lecture of unusual interest will be given in the 
Carnegie Technical Schools on Thursday evening, 
February 17th, under the auspices of the Pittsburgh 
Section of the American Chemical Society. Mr. 
Henry A. Gardner, Director of the Scientific Section 
of the National Paint Association will present the re­
sults which have been obtained on the field exposure 
tests as carried out by the National Paint Association,
acting in conjunction with the American Society for 
the Testing of Materials.
About two years ago, a large test fence was erected 
on the hill directly back of the Technical Schools, for 
the purpose of trying out in a practical way, the 
action of various paints as a protective coating for 
wood in the Pittsburgh District. At the same time, 
fences were erected at Atlantic City and North 
Dakota, these three districts giving vastly different 
climatic conditions.
These fences have been inspected from time to 
time and the pigments subjected to various laboratory 
tests and at the present time much valuabel informa­
tion can be given. The work of the evening will take 
up these results and the microscopic work which has 
been done bringing to view the actual conditions 
which are present, and wiiich confront the architect, 
decorator and painter. The paper of the evening will 
be followed with a discussion by various men who 
have been intimately connected with the work since 
its inception.
CRAFTSMAN’S CLUB.
At the last meeting of the Craftsman’s Club which 
was held in the club rooms last Friday evening, of­
ficers were elected for the ensuing year. In the con­
test for president, much interest was manifested 
which fact attests the growing amount of honor con­
nected with serving as the head of this live ograniza- 
tion. After close balloting for all the other positions 
the following were declared elected: President, Chas. 
Tomlinson; vice president, P. J. Witman; secretary 
and treasurer, O. A. Kirkman; executive committee, 
U. A. Breem, Harry Lippert, Fred Noel, M. C. Gra­
ham, and J. R. Kegel.
The Craftsman’s Club is one of the oldest organiza­
tions of its kind in the Schools and in the past sea­
son has enjoyed the well earned prosperity of a well 
founded and managed club. Over 25 new members 
were taken in at this meeting, which speaks well for 
its standing and wide influence. The charter of the 
club will be held open for only a short time and 
any student in night sections B, C, or D is still 
eligible to become a charter member. For the 
benefit of any not knowing the purpose and aim and 
desiring 'to join, information may be had by apply­
ing at the club rooms the first and third Fridays of 
each month or by attending the next meeting of the 
club to be held Friday, February 18. The constitu­
tion and by-laws will be read at that time.
One of the features of the recent election was the 
able manner in which Mr. Peters, honorary member 
and instructor in English, handled the counting of 
the ballots, which was no small job. The club rooms 
were taxed to their extreme capacity to accommo­
date those present. The meeting did not adjourn 
until a late hour.
Many splinters are attached to the “Big Stick.”
Mr. Peters and Mr. Williams were given a vote 
of thanks by the club.
The Dean’s absence was noted with regret.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu­
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, ’11—Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell— Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. Taggart—Associate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, ’10, M. M. C. S.—As­
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, ’10, M. M. C. S.—Assistant. 
H. J. McCorkle, ’11—Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ......................................................10 Cents
Student Raites
Yearly ............................................................... $1.00
Single Copy........................................................ 5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must 
be signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
will not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
OUR EXCHANGES.
We have had in mind for some time, some sort of a 
statement regarding the papers constituting our ex­
change list, and the purpose to which they are put. 
For a paper only three and one-half years old, we 
are of the opinion that our “Tartan” is exceedingly 
fortunate in having so rapidly accumulated as large 
a number of collegiate exchanges as we have.. To a 
young publication, older exchanges are at once a 
source of guidance and inspiration. They are living 
sermons on right methods and good ideas, or de­
ceased but not buried samples of what to avoid in 
college journalism. The sparkling ones make us 
conscious of how flat and painful are our attempts at 
wit and subtlety; the poorer rather tend to encour­
age by the consolation that age is not the only quali­
fication for excellence.
We learn what the trend of thought on various 
topics is; how student activities fare; the different 
opinions and attitudes toward all branches of 
athletics; how Carnegie Tech stands among other 
educational institutions, and last and perhaps best, 
that every student body of any size is just the same 
crowd of fun-loving human beings as we have here. 
Exchanges tend to unify sentiment, and encourage 
free expression of opinion.. They broaden by con­
tact, helping both parties and act as a certain 
equalizing factor of ideas, for without them each set
of students would have no means of keeping abreast 
of the times.
Our particular exchanges cover the East, Middle 
and South-West fairly well.. The news of the North 
and West comes to us chiefly through “The Daily 
Maroon” of the University of Chicago, to whom we 
are indebted for the majority of our “News of the 
Colleges” items.. In a few years there is no doubt but 
that “The Tartan” will have all of the college papers 
of importance on its mailing list. One of the things 
the Schools need badly now, is a place where these 
exchanges can be made accessable to the student 
body.
DOCTOR VINCENT TO LECTURE.
Dr. George A. Vincent, Dean of the College of Edu­
cation at Chicago University, is to give a lecture at 
the Rittenhouse February 18th, at 8 o’clock p. m. on 
“The Sense of the City.”
This lecture is conducted under the auspices of 
the Allied Boards of Trade, having a membership of 
about 1600.
Dr. Vincent needs no introduction to Pittsburgh as 
many here have had the pleasure of meeting him be­
fore, A short time ago he gave an inspiring address 
before the Traffic Club of Pittsburgh, which is well 
remembered. Last spring Dr. Vincent acted as toast­
master at the banquet given by the Western Federa­
tion of Yale Culbs at which President Taft was a 
guest. President Taft, following the brilliant pre- 
sntation speech of Dr. Vincent was heard to say 
“After i^.at I feel like sitting down before I begin.” 
As the President of the Chautauqua Association his 
fame became national through the Chautauqua Insti­
tute meetings. Under his leadership the Chautauqua 
has become the mecca each year for the discussion of 
many of the active and progressive problems that 
concern education and good citizenship.
After graduating from Yale in 1885, Dr. Vincent 
traveled in Europe and the Orient. Returning to 
America he became associated with Chatauqua move­
ment and has been one of the leaders in this move­
ment since that time. In 1892 he was called to Chi­
cago Univeristy as an instructor. Today he holds the 
position of Dean of the Faculties Art, Literature and 
Science. He has written many pamplets and articles, 
among the best known of which are “Social Mind 
and Education”, “An Introduction to the Study of 
Society,” etc., etc.
The custom has been established among the Allied 
Boards of Trade for one board to act as host for 
the lecturer in the course conducted under their 
auspices. Under this arrangement Dr. Vincent will 
be a guest of the Civic Club.
This is the only visit of Dr. Vincent to Pittsburgh 
this year and extra accommodations have been pro­
vided at the Rittenhouse for the large number who 
have already signified their intention of attending.
WHITE FRIAR TRIALS. FEB. 22, 2:30.

---------------------------------------------------

WHITE FRIARS
THE TARTAN»
Another Call for Candidates
Owing to the extremely poor showing of candidates 
attendance at the trials for the cast and chorus of 
the White Friars held last Monday night in the As­
sembly Hall of the A. & J. officers of the club have 
found it necessary to issue one more call. This will 
positivly be the last trial, and will take place on the 
afternoon of the twenty-second at 2:30 in the As­
sembly Hall of the A. & J. Building. This date being 
a holiday of the day and night schools was selected 
with a view of securing a time most convenient for 
the attendance of all. The applications of any can­
didates after this date will not be considered. All 
old men who nave played in the show in past years 
come under this ruling, and it is definitely announced 
that they will be held to it. This trial will decide 
the giving of a play this year. So far, not enough 
men have put in appearence to fill the chorus, and if 
more than enough are forthcoming the show for this 
year will be declared off.
In case the cast and chorus can be selected and 
will warrant going ahead with the present plans, a 
trip to the followings places is more than visionary: 
Youngstown, Greensburg, Butler and New Castle. 
These trips will be taken before the three Pittsburgh 
performances in the Carnegie Music Hall on April 21 
and 22. For the Pittsburg dates, a complete set of 
scenes and lighting effects will be built together with 
a full-sized working stage complete in every detail. 
Arrangements have been made for the making of cos­
tumes which, together with the stage effects and 
general ensemble, will excell anything heretofore 
attempted by the White Friars.
The setting of the stage for the second act will 
typify an evening garden sceen in the idealistic Aca­
dian retreat, and will have a specially constructed 
practical porch gaily illumined and festooned with 
garlands and Japanese lanterns. It will be the scene 
of a masquerade ball, and offer opportunity for many 
novel specialties.
The management has been criticized for scheduling 
the play at the Music Hall, but with the arrangements 
to be carried out, it will be an ideal show place. Su­
perintendent Cunningham has given the club permis­
sion to build a stage to suite its needs and arrange­
ments have been made with a prominent local theatri­
cal manager to do the constructing and equipping 
it with all the up-to-date appliances. This together 
with the special scenery to be used, will make the 
Music Hall equal in every respect, if not superior 
to any local theater that the White Friars could play 
in at this time of the year.
While many rumors to the effect that the Friars 
would have no trip and would be at a disadvantage 
by using the Music Hall have been going the rounds, 
the foregoing information should certainly make it 
clear that it will be a successful season.
THE FACULTIAD.
(The Impressions of a First-Year Industrial.)
Let me write, in classic rhyme,
Of what occurs ’most all the time 
Within the walls of Dear Old Tech,
Whose class rooms I, at times, bedeck.
Oh, patron Muse, do me inspire 
With breathings of thy sacred fire;
And, prithee, let it not be seen,
That—still a Freshman—I am green.
Oh, noble group of learned men,
You’re at the mercy of my pen.
I'll not your little foibles spare,
But shall each lot of them lay bare.
And, should I take thy names in vain,
I trust it will not give thee pain.
For, after all, in fun ’tis said,
And comes but from a Freshman's head.
The learned sage who o’er us rules 
May well add lustre to our schools.
Strange—though we Scotchmen claim to be, 
Of green, old Irish blood is he.
The Dean has, too, a Satellite,
Who gives the erring ones a fright.
When in the hall, of him beware,
Should you be calmly smoking there.
In Pattern Shop, one Lord doth sit—
Beware ye of his caustic wit.
We learn much, when to him we go;
Yea, even how to shovel snow.
A pleasing person is his Aide,
On hand when every pattern’s made.
As raconteur he’s a delight,
And makes the gloomiest hour bright.
An “Old Grad” of a year, is he 
Who holds the power in Chemistry.
And we would hate to have him think 
That we throw solids in the sink.
In “math” though it be most abstruse, 
We’re made to “Stiddy,” like the deuce.
The “Prof.” in calculation shines.
We act on Geometric lines.
WHITE FRIAR TRIALS. FEB. 22, 2:30.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
% FIRST YEAR INDUSTRIALS
*+
hibition of models will be held. All students are in­
vited to attend.
Mr. Calderwood in lecture on magnetism: “How 
may we experimentally prove the molecular theory of 
magetism?”
Letsche: “By experiment.”
Mr. Calderwood in same lecture “How does a tem­
porary magnet differ from a permanent magnet?”
B. B. Taggart: “A temporary magnet is only perma­
nent for a little while.”
BASEBALL A CERTAINTY.
Schedule is Arranged.
The subscription sale for baseball was very suc­
cessful, over $200.00 being netted. This means that 
baseball at Tech is a certainty. This money will 
cover all the guarantees and will, under the new 
athletic regime of Dr. Savage, permit Manager 
Keally to arrange a schedule. As nearly as can be 
announced at this early date it is as follows:
March 30—Lehigh at South Bethlehem
March 31—Ursinus at Collegeville.
April 1—Bellefonte at Bellefonte.
April 2—State at State.
April 9—Pittsburgh Independents at Tech Field.
April 16—Allegheny at Tech Field.
April 22—Kenyon at Tech Field.
April 23—Dennison at Tech Field.
April 30—Open.
May 7—Bethany at Tech Field.
May 14—W. & J. at Washington.
May 21—Western Reserve at Tech Field.
May 28—Waynesburg at Waynesburg.
May 30—State Normal at Indiana (2 games).
June 4—Grove City at Grove City.
June 11—W. & J. at Tech Field.
Dr. Savage has made arrangements for fitting up 
a cage in the Science Building for indoor practice. 
A1 candidates for the team are requested to report 
to Captain Coldren on Thursday afternoon of this 
week. It is expected that, with the old men, a good 
sized squad will turn out, and a team developed 
which will maintain the good name of Tech on the 
diamond.
WIRELESS CLUB FORMED.
About fifteen students of the Industrial School 
held a meeting last Wednesday and formed a Wire­
less Club.
The following officers were elected: R. S. Bowen, 
President; W. J. Vance, Vice President; K. Ewing, 
Secretary and Treasurer.
AERO CLUB.
A meeting of the Aero Club will be held in Room 
104, A, & J. Building, Friday a>t 4.15 p. m. An ex-
CLAYSVILLE H. S. LOSES.
Captain Johnson and his band of tossers defeated 
Claysville High School, at Claysville, in a fast and 
interesting game. The boys from Tech took the 
lead early in the game and were never headed. 
Solomon had the jump on Claysville’s big center,
who stands about 6 feet 6 inches in his basket ball
suit, and the forwards covered the ball well. The 
guarding on both sides was very close.
Blair was forced to retire at the end of the first 
half on account of injuries.
Tech Ind. Claysville H. S.
Johnson, capt......................F.....................................F. Nuss
Mandeville ...........................F......................................... Miller
Solomon ................................C..................................... Grimes
Williams ...............................G.......................G. Nuss, capt.
BlairiStiffey .........................G..................................... Grimes
(Field Goals—Johnson, 2; Mandeville, 2; Blair, 
Williams, Solomon, F. Nuss, 3; Miller, Grimes.
Foul Goals—G. Nuss, 5; Williams, 3.
Referee—Dodd, of Grove City.
Timer—Egan, of Claysville H. S.
Scorer—Vance, of Tech.
PLEBES.
Prof. Doyle (asking Blair if he wants to say any 
more for his side of the debate)—“Mr. Blair, what 
will you do?”
Blair—“Oh, I pass.”
Dr. James (in Chemistry)—“Duff, what are the 
three most important bases?”
Duff ( a great baseball player)—“First, second 
and third.”
It seems that every one in the Plebe Class got a 
raise at the same time. They all have new suits and 
new caps to match.
A. M. Vatz has been elected captain of the Plebe 
basket ball team.
George Blair, Secretary and Treasurer of the 
Aero Club, while attempting a flight at Claysville, 
Saturday, fell to the ground and was forced to re­
tire from the game.
WHITE FRIAR TRIALS. FEB. 22, 2:30.
I THE JUNIOR PROMENADE. ¡5
£ THE RITTENHOUSE. %
!§ FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIRST. ffi

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
| PERTINENT f
| AND |
| IMPERTINENT f
The University of Pennsylvania has issued invi­
tations for an aero meet. Can’t some of our aviators 
assist?
Woodlawn’s latest thriller—“The Midnight Plunge, 
or, Lamoree in the Snowbank.”
Dr. Herman Schneider, Dean of the University of 
Cincinnati, has been forwarded at his own request, 
drawings of the model girder in the Civil Engineer­
ing Department.
O. P. Swartz, who has recently undergone an oper­
ation for appendencitis, returned to school last week, 
but decided to re-enter the Plebe class next year, 
as he has missed so much of the work.
, Instructor Campbell, of the School of Applied De­
sign, has decided ideas concerning the combination 
of daily and weekly current literature when applied 
to Architecture before 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
Dean Leete was in Cleveland last Thursday at­
tending the funeral of Mrs. Foss.
The White Friar freeze-out took place last Mon­
day.
Kindly notice the baseball schedule in another 
part of this issue. It came mighty near not happen­
ing.
Dance cards are all the rage in the upper classes 
this week.
MHO CLUB MEETING.
At the meeting of the Mho Club last Wednesday 
evening, the following officers were elected for the 
second semester:
President—R .Ehrenfeld.
Vice President—A .C. Dyer.
Secretary-Treasurer—J. A. Clark.
Executive Committee—G. M. Porter, W. H. Sands, 
Jr., W. C. Klingensmith.
After the “inauguration speeches” a large quantity 
of business was transacted. The Constitution was 
amended admitting graduates of the Electrical De­
partment to honorary membership. Graduate mem­
bers are to be entitled to all the privileges of the 
Club without payment of dues, but are not to vote, 
hold office or represent the Club on any athletic 
team.
A vote of thanks was given Prof. Wurts for the 
Carnegie pennant, and to Waxman for the Mho Club 
banner. The Room Committee for the semester is 
composed of McClain, Kennedy, Schmucker and Un­
derwood. A committee consisting of Oetting, Cul 
bertson and Clark, was appointed to see that we are 
well represented in the Thistle.
“Gov.” Stone gave a talk on “The possibility of 
telephonic comunication between an electric, inter- 
urban car and city office.’ This aroused considerable 
discussion, after which the meeting adjourned, when 
the refreshments were disposed of.
CRUCIBLE CLUB.
A meeting of the Crucible Club was held on Wed­
nesday evening, February 9th. Walter A. Jacobs, 
Tech, ’08, spoke on the various phases of Technical 
Gas Analysis and furthermore gave a very interesting 
description of the work of the Technologic Branch of 
the United States Geological Survey as carried on at 
the Pittsburgh Arsenal. The meeting was well at­
tended by students, alumni, and faculty, and all took 
much pleasure in listening to, and visiting with the 
speaker, one of the first members of the club.
Several excellent speakers are being secured for 
future meetings and all members and friends of the 
club are urged to share in the benefits and pleasures 
to be derived from attending the gatherings. That 
the local alumni may be duly notified of the meet­
ings, it is requested that they mail their present ad­
dresses to “Crucible Club,” 15 Mawhinney street, city.
WHITE FRIAR TRIALS. FEB. 22, 2:30.
---------HIGH LOW----------
Jack and the Game]
Have you'seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENER’S
6227 Penn6222 Frankstown END
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

RESOURCES OVER ONE MILLION DOLLARS 
DEPOSITS OVER NINE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS 
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS 
A bank that is strong in Assets, in Men, in Courtesy.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
12 THETARTAN
BOARD OF CONTROL NOTICE.
There will be a special meeting of the Board of 
Control of the Athletic Association on Wednesday 
evening, February 16, in Room 125, of the A. & J. 
Building, at 7:30. The meeting is being called for 
the purpose of deciding the eligibility of the candi­
dates for the assistant managership of the baseball 
team. The notice of the details of the general elec­
tion will appear later. Since this is the first time 
that anything of this kind has been held in connec­
tion with the election of manager for any of the 
teams, it is of special importance for all members 
of the Board to be present, and for the student body 
in general to take an active interest in the election.
NEWS OF THE COLLEGES.
Iowa has scheduled seventeen baseball games.
The winter enrollment at Ohio State University 
numbers 2,611.
Cornell announces a gift of $50,000 from Andrew 
Carnegie.
Cornell’s candidates for the crew have started 
work, 110 strong.
Yale University is preparing to educate foreign 
students in their own language.
Self-government regulations have been drawn up 
by a student committee at Iowa.
iSince 1892 John D. Rockefeller has contributed 
$93,485,000 to American Colleges and Universities.
A new college is to be established at Portland, 
Oregon, and will be an institution of about the same 
rank as A^nherst.
Ill health has compelled Dr. Angell, president 
emeritus of Michigan University, to go South for 
the winter.
He (after half an hour’s hard work)—You didn’t 
know I danced, did you?
She—No. Do you?—The Harvard Lampoon.
James G. Lathrop, former coach of Harvard’s 
track team, will take charge of Wisconsin's cinder 
path artists this year.
Funds are being raised by Yale students for the 
equipment of a hospital vessel for the settlement of 
Dr. Grenfell on the Labrador coast.
Student journalists at Missouri will be the guests 
of Governor Hadley at a ball in connection with the 
state meeting of the Missouri Press Associations.
President Butler, of Columbia, has declared him­
self in favor of granting collegiate credit to student 
managers of college publications, clubs and athletic 
teams.
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to $8.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
“THE THISTLE.”
At the last meeting of the “Thistle” Board, Busi­
ness Manager Wallace reported on the amount of 
space that can be had in the book. At the next 
meeting the apportionment of this space will be 
discussed, and a committee appointed to do the ap­
portioning in accordance with the ideas of the mem­
bers. The contract for the engraving for the book 
was signed with the Northern Engraving Co., of 
Canton, Ohio. Printers and photographers are at 
present under consideration.
The pages of the book will be 7x9% inches, and 
the printed portion (actual size of full page plates) 
4%x6% inches. All drawings are to be made a third 
or a half larger than the latter dimensions.
DEATH OF MRS. FOSS.
Mrs. Foss, the wife of Prof. F. E. Foss, the former 
head of the Civil Engineering Department, died on 
Tuesday morning, February 8th, in New York City. 
The funeral services were held at the home of her 
father in Cleveland, Ohio, last Thursday afternoon.
“The Tartan” wishes to extend its sympathy to 
Prof. Foss.
Tobogganing is a popular form of sport on the 
Cornell campus.
The trustees of the Rhodes scholarships have is­
sued a statement showing that 179 men were recipi­
ents of Rhodes honors last year. Of this number 90 
were from the United States, 78 from the British 
colonies, and 11 from Germany. All but.one of the 
American students have returned to the United 
States for employment.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you can't 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbe? 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
You should see the fine line of Cards, Valentines, 
etc., at Singer’s, 216 Oliver avenue.
Why use a bad—leaking pen? 
can fix you up “siure.”
Singer Pen Store
A challenge to a contest in aeronautics, issued by 
the Aero Club of Columbia, has been accepted by 
Harvard, Amherst and Pennsylvania, and arrange­
ments are being made for an aviation meet in June.
Vi§5 THE JUNIOR PROMENADE. Ä
THE RITTENHOUSE.
FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIRST.
! I^V\e“Be st" Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST. £
$ OAKLAND§
 Phone: 1554 Schenley. V
ALTERATION SALE O
J BIG REDUCTIONS *
g BIG BARGAINS J
Come—See the Money you can save. ^
THE DON SEELE PHOTO STUDIO
FORBES BUILDING, OAKLAND 
Forbes and Atwood Streets
Forbes Street Cars Pass the Door Filth Avenue Cars One Block North
SIPE’S JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
North Side, Pittsburg, Pa.
HERMAN H. ADAM ‘
Dealer In 4,
CHOICE FAMILY GROCERIES J
No. 405 Dithridge Street jh
Bell Telephone 178 Schenley 4.
P. SCHIEFER CO.
Dealer In Sausages, Puddings, Etc. 
CHOICE BEEF, PORK, LAMB AND VEAL
Stands 144-146 Liberty Market, E. E., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bell 2572 Highland P. & A. 1271-X
4**4*4*4»***
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
Beginning with the first Sunday night in Feb­
ruary, Dr. Coyle will give a series of Bible 
studies in the Book of Genesis.
Subjects.
E^eb. 6th—The Creation of the Heaven and the 
Earth.
Feb. 13th—The Creation of Man and the Garden 
of Eden.
Feb. 20th—The Origin of Evil and the Dawn of 
Hope. i f
Feb. 27th—The Conflict between Good and Evil.
*4»4*4**4*+4*4*4*4-*4***ÿ4*4*4-4*4*4*
$ OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET $
•f, Dealers in
BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA AND *
$ COFFEE $
fi 3714 FORBES STREET £ß Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley £
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
I 3=- LTJDEBUESL <2z SOIT |
* PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. g
? The New Creation for Men g
§ “ TAN VIKING CALF” Button§ $4.00 and $5.00 the Dair I
^ , --------- anti Blucher$4.00 and $5.00 the pair
The Aero Club, of Pensylvania, has issued chal­
lenges to several other universities for an aerial 
race. The first aeroplane for Pennsylvania will be 
finished in a month.
The undergraduate student affairs committee at 
California has recommended to the Faculty that a 
Senior caught cribbing be dropped from the rolls.
Harvard will have a chair of playwriting.
Ann Arbor boarding houses have raised the price 
of board.
Two hundred candidates reported for the track 
team at Stanford University.
Three of the men’s dormitories at Yale were bur­
glarized recently.
A rumor is afloat that Gifford Pinchot may suc­
ceed Dr. Angel as the President of Michigan.
The University of Virginia will adopt Walter 
Camp’s suggested revision of the football rules next 
fall.
President Jordan, of Stanford, University, believes 
that no football reform will be possible so long as 
interference plays are allowed.
President Benjamin Ide Wheeler of the University 
of California, was entertained recently by the Ger­
man Emperor.
Joy Miller, the disgraced Michigan football man, 
is reported to be wandering in British Columbia in 
an insane condition.
During an examination given recently at the Un­
iversity of Missouri, the professor in charge passed 
around cigars and allowed the students to answer 
the questions at leisure.
Kansas has voted to abolish football temporarily, 
pending modifications of the rules which will ren­
der the sport less dangerous.
Dean Benjamin, of Purdue University, addressed 
the students and faculty at convocation last week 
on the subject of “Slang.” The Dean produced lit­
erature of all ages containing slang expressions.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
The Standard of Excellence
MacDonald’s
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice Cream—Fancy Boxes—Baskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.
DRAWING AND 
ARTISTS MATERIALS
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279.
$ Well Pressed is Well Dressed |
LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO. 
301 South Craig Street
8 IR. W. MEDICK
MEATS ANDCHOICE HOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
Both Phones38C4 Forbes Street&?0
\ox0\oxo\ox0\oxoxoxoxosoxoxoxrjx0xrjxo
$ GOOD THINGS TO EAT ^
at the Pure Food Stores of
GEO, K, STEVENSON & CO.
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East End
I flE (AlEmbEi n®LH^
)|| THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and 
uj profit.
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND 
DANCES. ~ 
Phone 248 Schenley.
YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
LIES.
A lie is a falsehood, but nevertheless sometimes 
good enough to shield a defenseless head. It is the 
lot of man to lie. By day he lies by nature and pref­
erence, by night he lies in bed to rest from his day’s 
work of—lying; when he dies, he lies even in his 
grave! He can’t even put a pipe in his mouth, but 
it lies in his teeth! Of course, if they are false, this 
peculiarity can be accounted for.
But consider the novelist. It has been said, “Truth 
is a stranger to fiction.” No matter how many 
“novel sensations” he produces, they are not true 
ones. He is in a bad way. Lies! all, all, lies!
If somebody tells you you will go to heaven, that’s 
a lie,—not because there is no heaven, but— Lies 
are white and black; that is they are different degrees 
of the same thing—and, here we have it again, that’s 
just where the difference lies!
Again, they say that “Figures never lie.” We 
take strong objection to that statement. If figures 
never lie, why they bustle? Why the—hm!— We 
do not desire to be inquisite, but why?—The Har­
vard Lampoon.
FRESHMAN PHILOSOPHY.
Tell me not in mournful numbers 
Descriptive is an easy-stunt,
For the fool who sleeps and slumbers, 
Wakes up after he has flunked.
•—Purdue Exponent.
Michigan’s baseball coach advocates allowing 
team members to play for money in the summer.
The Navy football team is seeking a game with 
Illinois in the coming season and has promised the 
Illini team a return match next year.
The Board of Managers of the University of Penn­
sylvania Daily give a smoker each year to the candi­
dates for staff positions on the paper: The smoker 
is used as a means for the Board to get better ac­
quainted with the candidates before the election.
Jubilee Day will be celebrated at the University of 
California, May 17. President Hadley, of Yale, will 
deliver the address.
Or a Balloon Ascension in Abstract.
Aspiration;
Expectation;
Preparation;
Inflation;
Elevation;
Exaltation;
Perforation;
Evaporation ;
Trepidation;
Gravitation.—Clipped.
Mother—“Why, Bobby, what do you mean by mak­
ing baby eat that yeast cake?”
Bobby—“Boo-hoo. He swallowed my fifty-cent
piece and I'm trying tor aise the dough.”—Ex.
There was a young lady named Banker,
Who slept while her ship lay at anker;
She woke in dismay,
For she heard the mate say:
“Now, hoist up the top sheet and spanker.”
—Ex.
Two dance hall musicians in Butte 
Were paid to play cornet and flute,
But they drank lemonade,
Beer and whisky, which made 
Those two footers to tight to toot.
0X0?TO\0\0*0*0%0X0X0*0S0%0X0N0*0X0*03*o OA 
i*Tech Barber Shop
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STREETSV,
8 REYMERS/< There are no other
* candies quite so gocd as
À R E Y M ER S
<À ^
a\o%oya%oxovo%o%o%a%D\D.*o%o%0vaxox0**£OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO. 
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest Dyeing and 
Cleaning Works
City Office—631 Penn Avenue 
East End Office—S. Highland Ave. & Baum St. 0*
s .... T ,
OX0V0%0V0X0X0V0%0X0X0X0\0X0X0X0%0\0?
-t- .t. ^ tf. i-S J, A A iiT«AnT« A A A ^ .t. r-v J. J. ^ J. -t. J.vTvTWvvTVTwTVTVTVTVTVTwTvTvTWTyTWTvT
B. K. Elliott Co
PERFECT FITTING EYE X 
GLASSES AND *
0 SPECTACLES X* j08 Sixth St. (Bessemer Building) 0
^ PITTSBURGH *
vVvVvTvVvVVTVVvTVTvTVTv'TVTvTVTVTVTVT
1 VALENTINE POST CARDS, 1c, 2c, AND 5c jg
Cute novelties to sen dto your friends,—5 
cents and up. Pretty favors for Valentine 
parties-—Tally Cards; Place Cards; Ice Cream 
in Heart Shapes, $1.-50 a dozen.
HALLERS’
3618 Forbes Avenue,
m 
§ 
i £ 11 
1 
1 is1Iroquois Bldg. £•
vas*
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU’RE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
fiISlSM3MSJSM3ISMSIS13JSMSI3J3M3J3EI213MSMcIM3iSMBÎ5Ii
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Florists and Decorators
i4*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04*04'04*O4*04*04*04*O4-O4*O.
B. & B.
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG­
EST ASSORTMENT
East End Store:
Bell 5500 Highland 
P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:
Bell 1101 Court 
P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
Ì3J3M3I3J5
A.G. SPALDING* BROS.
BUT ER,GS.PO
TRADE MARK
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarani«« of 
Quality.
Ar« the Largest Manufacturers in the World oi
OFFICIAL 
EQUIPMENT
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
IT Vflll are interested in Il IUU Athletic Sport you 
should have a copy of the 
Spalding Catalogue. It’s a 
complete encyclopedia o f 
WHAT'S NEW IN SPORT 
and is sent free on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa.
>T>The S. Hamilton Co.
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
531 Wood St., - PITTSBURG, PA.
0~0S0~0S0S050S0S0S050S0S0S0SOS050S0~
0X0*0*O\0*0*0*0%0\0%0\O%O\O\0V0\0*0*
5 0f MELLON NATIONAL BANK 1
§ 514 SMITHFIELD STREET jjj
6 409 F IFTH AVENUE 2
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL - 
SURPLUS & PROFITS
$4,000.000 
- $2,900,000
0 New Goods filling lip shelves, tables 
^ and eases fast. *
All latest Dress Ideas from the East. 
BOGGS & BUHL
O O4>04*O*ï*O*ï*O«î»0404*O4*04*O4*0*l*04‘04»O*ï*O4*04*04* Ö
4*4*4* *1**1. 4.*|.4..S*4*4*4**l**I*4*4**I**I*4**l*46*I**I*4*4*4*4**l**a*4* 4**1* *S**I'**t*^* 4* v
4**4*4**?4*?4*4*4*4*4=4*4*4*
For
MEN
For
WOMEN
BETTER AND LOOK IT
HANAN & BAKER SHOE COMPANY
435-437 Wood Street
§
4>4*4*4,4*4*4*4‘4*4*4,4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4*4**î,4*4,4*4*4*4*4*4,4*4*4*4»
4»0%4*0VI*03W,03*4*OVi,0VI,0Vi*0%4*0Vi‘OJ*4‘O%4*OS
/
0
3Dc "2"o\3.
that we print more hooks than any firm in the East End ?...........................................ID© "2"0"U- IS33.0-W
that our Programs. Topic Cards and Leaf­
lets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine
Printing?............................................................
CD© ~2T©-u. 32:n.©-w
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at­
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service’ come to .
SF-A-HE, cSs EITgCHXE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street
McI LI WI MANEc’SBU Mgr , Tartan, is our representative at ‘ Tech.”
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
0O\0V0%0*0V0*0\ON0S0\0K0V0\O\0V0\OK0X
4*04»04*04*04*O4*O4*O4*04*04,04*O4*O4*O4*O*i*O4*O4*O*i*O 4* o
I A. W. SMITH CO., I
I Florists I
Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es- $
tablishment in America.
Represented in all large cities n
KEENAN BUILDING O
Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa. 5
%0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0S0S0X0X0X0X0X0O4*O4*O4*O4,O4*O4*O4*04*04*O4*04*04*04*04* O4*04*O4*04*TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU’RE FROM TECH.
