Senate Preparing for 
November Elections.. 
Plenty of Seats OpenIDI tartan
Student Senate has begun distributing 
nominating petitions for its fall elections, 
to be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, 
November 13 and 14. Any student belong­
ing to a constituency having Senate seats 
available—and seats are open in all consti­
tuencies but one—can be nominated by 25 
legal signatures on a petition.
Petitions are available at the Skibo In­
formation Desk and must be completed by 
October 30.
Senate is the official body representing 
student interests on campus. Its main 
functions are communicating student 
opinion to the administration and allocat­
ing about $100,000 each year (obtained 
through the $12.50 per semester activities 
fee paid by all full time students) to organi­
zations ranging from the Activities Board 
to the Sailing club. Senate elects a chair­
man from among its members and works 
closely with the President of Student Gov­
ernment, who is elected by popular vote of 
the campus in the spring.
For election purposes, the student body 
is divided into categories, or constituen­
cies: graduate students, commuters, frater­
nity members, men’s dormitories, women’s 
dormitories, and independent undergradu­
ate campus residents. Each constituency 
elects one representative for every TOO 
students belonging to that constituency. 
Half the seats open in each constituency 
this fall will carry full year terms; the other 
half carry terms that expire next spring. 
The candidates with the higher vote totals 
will receive the full terms.
Dave Meixner, Senate Rules com­
mittee chairman, says that the latest 
reapportionment, based on this semester’s 
enrollment, gives the following numbers of 
representatives: graduates 12, commuters
10, UFO 6, men’s dorms 10, women’s 
dorms 5, and independent undergraduate 
campus residents 1. The following seats are
open in this election: UFO, 2 full and 1 
half term; men’s dorms, 5 full and 4 half 
terms; women’s dorms, 2 full and 1 half 
term.
Meixner outlined several changes he 
intends to propose. The most important 
would divide the student electorate by 
college rather than residence. If this were 
done now, CIT would elect 12 senators, 
CFA would elect 11, H&SS 8, MIS 8, GSIA 
2, AMS 2, and SUPA 1.
This could be the last election held 
under the system of rules described above. 
The Senate Rules Committee is preparing 
to consider major revision or complete 
replacement of the Student Government 
constitution. “It’s inadequate, it doesn’t 
cover many cases, it’s full of 
redundancies—in short, it’s outdated,” says 
Meixner of the current constitution.
Meixner would abolish the executive 
council, contending that the council 
doesn’t do enough to justify its existence. 
He would also make the Activities Board 
an organization like any other (that is, 
comparable to WRCT or Sailing Club) in­
stead of a standing committee of Senate.
The opening meeting of Student Senate this year. Tanya Allmond, Student Government President is
second from the right, facing camera. Frank Sacco, Senate Chairman is at her right.
Photo by Ed Levine
New Staging Shops and 
Practice Rooms for CFA
by Steve Calhoun
The expansion of the College of Fine 
Arts, which began earlier this semester with 
the addition of rooms in Margaret Morrison 
Hall, will continue with an addition to the 
studio theatre, modifications in the main- 
stage theatre, additional practice rooms on 
the mezzanine of the Fine Arts building, 
and new studios in Doherty Hall for Paint­
ing and Sculpture.
The bulk of the actual reconstruction 
won’t begin until May, 1974, but construc­
tion of the studio theatre addition is slated 
to begin on November 26, 1973. Painting 
and Sculpture will begin to occupy Do­
herty Hall areas on the same date.
The Fine Arts building itself has been
undergoing renovation over the past year, 
including general refurbishing of the main 
floor of the building and repairs of the roof 
and gutter system.
As part of the new reconstruction, the 
mainstage theatre will get new lighting fa­
cilities. Once ceramics, metal crafts, and 
sculpture move from the basement of Fine 
Arts into Doherty, the entire basement can 
be devoted to workshops for theatre 
design.
Parts of the mezzanine formerly 
occupied by Drama will be given to music, 
with new practice rooms being added.
The basic philosophy of the renovation 
is to accomplish it without interrupting 
studies for Fine Arts majors, while 
nevertheless making use of remodeled areas 
as soon as possible.
Rash Limits Claimed 
Unfair to Small Frats
by Michael Scott Baum
A new U.F.O. rule whose purpose is to 
equalize the contest for freshman pledges 
has instead given big fraternities an edge 
over weaker ones, according to some 
fraternity sources.
This rule states that freshmen shall not 
be permitted to visit any fraternity house 
except during the designated official rush 
social functions. This rule purports to give 
the smaller houses an equal chance at solic­
iting freshmen by damping the larger and 
more efficiently mobilized rush organiza­
tions, which have greater financial re­
sources available. Supposedly, limiting the 
number of scheduled events would help 
compensate.
In addition, the rule supposedly pre­
vents freshmen from taking unfair advan­
tage of the fraternities. One fraternity pres­
ident stated, “Many freshmen come in half 
drunk and say, ‘Where’s the beer tap?’ get 
their beer and then leave. Some have also 
had many meals with us without any inten­
tion of joining, not to mention taking ad­
vantage of the many other social 
functions.”
The smaller fraternities, which the fresh­
man rule was supposedly made to benefit, 
.have complained that the. freshman rule is
unjust. They assert that because they can­
not throw rush parties of the same magni­
tude as the larger fraternities, they need 
extensive leisure time for freshmen to com­
municate with the brothers. George Kane, 
President of ATO, stated that some larger 
fraternities are satisfied with the rule.
The existing rule expires at the conclu­
sion of rush this year. (Monday, October 
29 is pledge night and also marks the end 
of rush.) John Sisson, President of the 
U.F.O. stated that there will probably be 
some change in this rule for the next year.
October 16, 1973 Volume 74 Number 5
Housing Might 
Inspect Rooms
by Kevin Turcotte
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank 
and Director of Housing James Curl are 
considering a plan to reinstate periodic 
room inspections in all dormitories. Both 
emphasized that the plan is not final, and 
Dean Swank said the Men’s and Women’s 
Dormitory Councils would be asked to 
comment on the proposal before the uni­
versity takes any action on it.
“It’s certainly not a witch-hunt,” said 
Dean Swank, “The inspections are for the 
purpose of checking on the students’ safe­
ty.” The housing contract that every dorm 
resident signed contains a clause that gives 
the University a right to make periodic 
inspections.
The inspections, as Dean Swank puts it,
John Furganic, Rush Chairman.
« YW«V#W * (ASii - Photo by Bruce Ed&Jston
Dean of Student Affairs, Earle Swank.
are for the safety of the students. The 
“inspectors” will supposedly lookr for 
things like frayed extension cords, Christ­
mas tree outlets, faulty radiators and other 
hazards. They will also see that each stu­
dent has his allotted furniture. “Unless the 
students report them, we don’t hear about 
these problems.”
The inspections would not be a random 
sampling of rooms, but rather a 100% ef­
fort. Officially, the Dean of Men and the 
Dean of Women are supposed to make 
them, but because this just isn’t possible, 
the inspections are going to be made by 
Housing personnel, instead. Dean Swank 
said no extra employees would be needed, 
because the inspections would occur only 
once per semester and could probably be 
incorporated into the job of area 
supervisor.
Curl said he had mixed feelings about 
the proposal. “It could potentially be of 
benefit to the students... in terms of more 
rapid service. My reservations would have 
to do with the time it would take, and with 
student reactions. .. I don’t want it to be 
perceived as some kind of police action. ’ 
Asked what the inspectors would do if 
they found marijuana or drugs in the room, 
Dean Swank replied, “If the quantity is 
such that we suspect the student is dealing, 
then we have to resort to disciplinary ac­
tion. I doubt if this would ever come up 
though, because the students are going to
.¦.v.vv. v.'.'.’. . ; »*"¦ continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16, 1973
EDITOR’S NOTE
Spiro who ?
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust; as ye came, so shall ye return. As quickly 
as he had become a household word, Spiro Agnew was thrust forcefully 
from the White House spotlight. Friday night in the East Wing he was 
nowhere in sight.
/ wonder what color TV Spiro was watching Richard Nixon’s smiling 
face on? Or did he deliberately avoid afflicting himself with the painful 
experience. No, Spiro was never the one to take the easy way out. He 
watched it alone in the den of his lavish Maryland home and gnashed his 
teeth. ”Bastard, ” he says.
And what a scene it was. As carefully orchestrated a scene as the 
inaugural ball. First came the House dignitaries. Then the cabinet. Then 
the President’s family, with David bringing up the rear and sitting halfway 
down before realizing that everyone else in the room was standing. Didn’t 
he say the Phillies were going to win the NL East?
Then a blast of trumpets and the President himself entered the room, 
pausing dignifiantly and distractedly while waiting for the band to play 
Hail to the Chief. And one two three four five six-how many steps-and he 
was home, behind the podium, behind the camera. Smiling.
"This night marks the beginning of a new era .. . ”
Oh, dear God Spiro, what is he talking about?
"... and I’m not goint to let you know who my choice is until ten 
minutes into my speech. I’m going to tease you all. ”
Meanwhile, ten million Americans are screaming out names: William 
Scranton . . . Strom Thurmond . . . H.R. Haldeman ... John 
Dean . . . Thomas Eagleton . . . Jacquelin Onassis.. .
And the answer is patently obvious. In a situation so controlled, so 
utterly and completely planned for the maximum public relations effect, 
who would Nixon be announcing in a room full of Congressional 
dignitaries? How many loyal Republicans can there be who would have 
these people as their selected perfect audience? Well, Dan Rather knew. 
Did you know, Spiro? Could you guess?
Yes, it was the kind of scene Richard Nixon thrives on. All the cards 
in his hand and nothing to worry about but his delivery. Like Bob Hope at 
the front. It didn’t matter that the substance of his talk was embarassingly 
meaningless. The rhetorical tone is king. Spiro is dead. Long live Gerald 
Ford.
Then somewhere, wherever he is, Spiro switches off the set - he 
certainly wouldn’t want to watch the instant analysis. And after a full 
measure of pondering, the full irony of his burial overcomes him. He 
breaks down in tears, ‘Dammit, / was twice the rhetorician he is,” he 
wails.
Well. . . such is the fate of those who ply their trade in demagoguery. 
Such is the fate of those who practice evil-hearted, devious-minded 
rhetoric. Such should be the fate.
Unfortunately, Spiro is the only one who has met his fate so far.
It seems like we’re living in a time of unprecendented deviousness. 
The Nixons, Mitchells, Haldemans and Ehrlichmans have set the tone for 
this era. This grim period of American history. The early 1970’s.
And Richard Nixon’s burial of Spiro Agnew is only the latest benign 
example of such devious orchestration.
"We need a man who is irreproachable, a man who has buddies in 
congress, a man who has shown he can lead, and most of all, a man who 
will agree with everything / say. ”
/ suppose there’s nothing wrong with this. Maybe / only object to the 
look on his face. The pompous way he addresses the American people. 
The real sincerity he shows for false generalities-New Era? Bullshit.
Then again, I’m sure content doesn’t mean a lot to most people. They 
just want to see if the President is happy or sad. If he still looks like he’s 
about to crack. Does he dye his hair? Did he ever get over that bad cold he 
had? Pnuemonia? And yet....
Beware! Yes, beware! Beware of the devious rhetorician. It’s up to us 
to keep our eyes on him. As the intellectual elite of this country, it falls 
upon us to peerthroughthe heavy mist and try to discern the truth. Be on 
the lookout. Examine these very words for their underlying truth, don’t 
be swayed by the rhetoric. It’s up to you. Leaf through old issues of the 
TARTAN. Can you find it? Last week’s debate? Who won?
Try to find the truth.
'x
Letters:
Dear Editor:
Anybody who’s been around knows 
that there is no relationship between units 
and class hours, workload or difficulty of 
any course. The reason is that whoever 
accredits colleges decided that to be a 
semi-competent starting engineer or scien­
tist, a graduate should have taken about 40 
courses. For Humanities, they were less 
specific. They knew that graduates should 
be well-rounded, so they require some sci­
ence, math, history, literature, art and a 
Modern Language. In addition, eight or so 
courses in your major are required to justi­
fy the field of study that is stamped on 
your diploma. All this could be accom­
plished in far less time, so about 32 
courses, (4 per semester) are required, just 
to make sure you keep busy for four ex­
pensive years. Ths unit system, with all its 
injustices, is only for accounting purposes 
and not to be taken seriously. It will 
probably last forever.
Poindex ter Moony
continued on page 7tartan
Administrative Editor
Christine Infante
Editor in Chief
Steve Saunders
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
Business Manager
Dywane Smalls
News Editor..........................Steve Correll
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans
Head Reporter ..... . Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff............................
Marcia Abernathy, Michael Baum 
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
James Russell, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Kate Stainton 
Kevin Turcotte, Lois Wholey 
Chip Yeager
Entertainment Editor . . Susan N. Klein 
Events ......................................Jay Cohen
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Cay wood
Craig Collins, Nonie Dempsey 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimbell 
Debbie Weiss, Hynk Levy, Sharon Neustein 
Steve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt 
Mark Evan Chimsky/Doug Stone
Sports Editor ......................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff ..... . Glenn Campbell 
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffman
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Stephen Saunders Photography Editors
ATTENTIONThe TARTAN will sponser a writer’s 
workshop featuring writers from the 
Pittsburgh Press and CMU’s Public 
Relations office on Thursday, October 
25 in the TARTAN office. All those 
interested in joining the staff are 
invited to attend.
Further details will be announced in 
next week’s TARTAN .
Photography Staff
Layout Staff.................Arlene Berkowitz
Catherine Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
Copy Staff............................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs. Cyndy Schmidt
. . Elliot Arons 
Ed Levine 
. Bruce Edelston 
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland 
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz 
Rod Reilly, John R. Rose 
Frederick A. Shamlian, John Shettel 
Courtney Larson ,jBryan Smith, Frank Stein
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government corporation of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines 
are 12 noon for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles 
and display ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business 
offices are located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.
Cartoonist............................Ron Wiggins

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16. 1973-Page 3
by George Bias
We are now facing what might be 
referred to as a full-blown political crisis in 
this nation. The resignation of Spiro T. 
Agnew causes possibilities that are difficult 
to comprehend. Thè first event to be con­
templated is whether or not this opens the 
possibility of forcing President Nixon to 
resign. It seems shockingly clear that it is, 
indeed, possible for Nixon to be forced to 
resign. Federal Prosecutor Archibald Cox is 
an adept a lawyer as any, and with some 
degree of perseverence, he will un- 
doubtably find sufficiently condemning 
evidence to bring Nixon to trial and force 
him to resign.
Where would that leave us? Now with 
the appointment of Congressman Gerald 
Ford, the House Minority Leader, to the 
position of Vice-President, we may find 
ourselyes worse off than with Agnew. 
Although Ford has risen to the position of
House Minority Leader in his twenty-five 
years in the House, he impresses me as not 
being as capable a President as many others 
who might have been chosen. It seems that 
Nixon’s only prerequisite for choosing 
Ford is that he was one of a few people to 
whom Congress would not object. Congress 
should, however insist on a person who 
would be more than capable of serving as 
President.
In general the state of politics in the 
nation is extremely discouraging. Although 
the situation has not been terribly different 
over the years, the ethical standards of 
most politicians are deplorable. It seems 
that there are few politicians who have any 
right to claim any honesty, and the most 
honest politicians are those who make no 
claims to their honesty. Let us all hope that 
this scandal in Washington will cause the 
much needed reforms in the United States’ 
political system.
(In the interest of informing the student 
body of the activities of Student Senate 
and at the request of Senate Chairman 
Frank Sacco, the TARTAN is publishing a 
short rundown of what took place at the 
Senate meeting on Tuesday, October 9. 
The article is written by News Editor Steve 
Correll, who was present at the meeting.)
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9
Senate Chairman Frank Sacco remarked 
that he barely had a quorum.
Senate recognized the Association of 
Women Scientists and Engineers, the 
Young Socialist Alliance, the Club Latino 
Amercano, and the Yoga Society as official 
student organizations. Student Activities 
Coordinator Sue Christian suggested the 
Yoga Society change its name to avoid 
confusion with the Yoga Club, a group 
already recognized by Senate.
Arthur Fisher was elected to replace 
Dave Weintraub as chairman of the aca­
demic affairs committee (AAC). Dave 
Meixner was elected to replace Mark Sadok 
as chairman of the rules committee. Both 
were elected without opposition.
Senate passed a motion to send a letter 
to the administration requesting repair of 
the senior fence, which is reportedly infest­
ed with termites.
The information committee was in­
structed to take a survey of student inter­
est in a yearbook.
Meixner secured passage of motions 
scheduling fall elections for November 13 
and 14 and setting October 30 as the 
deadline for ominations. Voting machines 
will not be available.
Dean Swank (Student Affairs) reminded 
Senate that the Faculty Senate Committee 
on Disciplinary Action has urged the 
creation of a court, similar to the Men’s 
and Women’s dorm courts, to try cases 
involving commuters. No action was taken. 
Dean Swank also asked Senate to advise 
him on a request by B’nai B’rith Hillel of 
Pittsburgh for permission to solicit dona­
tions for two days on campus, with pro­
ceeds to be used for war relief. Swank 
noted that approval would set a precedent 
for requests by Arab groups, if any such 
requests are made. Willie Thompson object­
ed that action would set a precedent for 
solicitation in general, which he opposes. 
In the absence of general opposition, Dean 
Swank announced he would grant the 
request for the two day period (with ex­
tensions possible).
On recommendation of Dean Swank, 
the general campus committee will comment on 
a proposal to charge 15 cents per check at 
the cashier’s office in Warner Hall. Swank 
said he had twice blocked attempts by the 
Treasurer to institute the charge before 
students had a chance to comment.
Ira Picker, Director of the Activities 
Board, announced that the Kool and the 
Gang concert made a profit, an unusual 
achievement. Responding to criticism from 
Senators who felt few students benefited 
from the concert, Picker said,“We didn’t 
book [it] in the interests of serving the 
Pittsburgh black community-we felt this 
was a type of music the students should 
hear. In fact, we made one of our heaviest 
within-campus publicity efforts.”
Senate authorized Director of Student 
Activities Robert McCurdy to investigate 
how to lodge a suit against the Byrds to 
recover the $2,671 lost when that group 
failed to appear in concert here last year. 
McCurdy will return to Senate for instruc­
tions on major questions.
Arthur Fisher reported that the investi­
gation of the firing of John Flaherty is 
stalled because GSIA Dean Arnold Weber 
claimed he did not to know the facts in 
the case. The AAC will pursue the matter 
further once Dean Weber has had a chance 
to find out what happened.
Student Government President Tanya 
Allmond reported that the President’s 
Advisory Committee will meet on October 
16 to consider graduate student salaries, 
parking, maintenance, the Flaherty firing, 
campus security, financial aid, tuition 
rebates, the Presidential mansion, the 
H&SS language requirement, and use of 
electronic calculators.
Senate defeated a motion by Edward 
Simon that would restrict spending of the 
Student Government President’s discretion­
ary fund.
A motion concerning the filling of seats 
vacated between elections was tabled for 
discussion at the next meeting.
Frank Sacco asked the senators to 
suggest what could be done to make the 
TARTAN give Senate better publicity.
commentary
PRO-JUDAISM
b^ayTohen
In talking with a number of non-Jewish 
students in class or informal situations, one 
thing has become painfully apparent in the . 
face of the current Middle-East crisis: that 
passion which now directs itself to Israel 
from all parts of this nation, and which 
takes the form of monetary contributions 
or donated blood or just an anxious con­
cern, is either equated with the Israeli war 
effort and thus evaluated with the same 
callousness that judges it validity, or it is 
dismissed as undue anxiety by those who 
cannot perceive real reasons for worry in 
their frame of reference. Having argued 
heatedly over the truth (if there is one) of 
the war effort, I cannot hope to convince 
those skeptics of Israel’s right to their 
territory. I will say that the real politics of 
the crisis must be accepted and be the basis 
for any action, any point based on what 
should exist, being irrelevant and 
stubbornly blind. However, knowing that
there will be those who will not accept 
this, I will confine my remarks to the 
elements of the Jewish psychology which 
are so greatly misunderstood.
It is not hard to see that Judaism is not 
simply a religion. It is a culture. Perhaps 
more so than any other in the world, the 
Jewish culture has been meshed and tightly 
held together. And under the spectre of 
Holocaust, the years after WWII have seen 
an even tighter community. In this sense, 
Israel has the heightened symbolic value of 
a haven against future atrocities. It is a 
symbolic bulkhead; a strong Israel is 
equated with a strong Jewish community. 
Recognize it for what it is: in the past 
thirty years, Israel has been the manifested 
hopes of Jews throughout the world that 
they would be rid of their Romans and 
their madmen-conquerers.
Now if you believe in the boring and 
ignorant stereotype of cunning, wealthy 
Jews, you will not understand this fear. 
But the fact remains that anti-semitism is 
not dead by any stretch of the imagination. 
While there is, perhaps, little of the Nazi 
type drive to purge left, there is a subtle 
and dangerous condescension among the
Gentile world, especially acute in the 
various evangelical revivals and religious 
movements which add up to the one point 
that the Jew cannot be right with god until 
he accepts Christ as his savior.
As I have said, it would be silly to deny 
the existence of anti-semitic sentiment. 
And to an extent. Jewish youth shares the 
same fears of its parents and grandparents 
as a direct result of personal experience. 
Even in areas of Jewish predomination, 
anti-semitism can still be found in the 
school, and it is amazing that in areas 
which have few Jews, myth and 
superstition type thinking are the frames of 
reference from which Jews are regarded. 
But the passion for Israeli survival among 
our youth goes deeper.
Simply stated, Jews are a highly success­
ful segment of many sections of the nation. 
The tendency therefore, is to identify with 
Israel—Israel is a psychological outgrowth 
of success among American Jews. Israel’s 
success is naturally associated with 
personal success and this equation is 
strengthened with the many avenues of 
financial contributions available. In that 
sense, attacks on Israel are seen as attacks
on the right to personal success. Not only 
do Jewish youths see their parents give 
money but they also give, and this makes 
the link with Israeli prosperity and survival 
more vivid for them.
Hopefully, some insight has now been 
provided into the thought process involved 
in Jewish support of Israel. Of course, not 
every kind of reason could be discovered in 
such a small space, for each individual 
motivation will differ slightly.
The question has been posed to me of 
why I have not, prior to this, gone to Israel 
to fight or support its efforts in person. To 
this challenge, let me answer that it is 
probable that not only would Israel not 
want every American supporter, but would 
not be able to accomodate them. Though 
many have already moved to Israel, it is a 
morally trying question for any Jew to 
ponder the switch, involving not only 
location but citizenship, a commodity 
which is still valuable to many. Besides, it 
is a strong argument that the most strategic 
place for American Jews is in the U.S., 
comprising the most important lobbying 
group that Israel has.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 16, 1973
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The increase in the Student Activities Fee
this year from $20 to $25 caused some 
confusion at fall 1973 registration for 
those students who received tuition remis­
sion. The Student Activities fee for the 
second semester is $12.50 and full tuition 
is $1,240. Ten dollars of the Aqtivities Fee 
is covered by the remission allowance of 
$1,250. The remaining $2.50 is to be as­
sessed and paid by all students who are 
entitled to full remission of tuition. In 
1974-75, when the tuition will be $2,900 
as announced previously and when the re­
mission of tuition will be related only to 
the tuition charge, the total Student Activi­
ties Fee is to be paid by all students 
including those who have been granted 
tuition remission.
All Varsity athletes who did not pick up
their awards for the 1972-73 season may 
stop in the athletic office. Gym 102.
Anyone interested in working as a 
varsity athletic manager, please stop in the 
athletic office, Gym 102, as soon as 
possible.
College-age Jewish youth-18 to 24 years of
age-are being asked to help in the current 
crisis in Israel by volunteering for six 
months of Non-Military duty in Israel. 
Only those who are ready to volunteer for 
at least six months can be accepted at this 
time. These efforts are being sponsored by 
the American Zionist Youth Foundation 
which requests that:
1) Volunteers will need to pay for their 
flight tickets; about $450 2) They must 
have prepared a validated passport and 
medical form such as is used for school or 
camp 3) They will be working on 
Kibbutzim.
For information call Giora Sharir, Israeli 
community representative, at 621-6500 or
683-7277.
There will be a Student Senate meeting on
Tuesday, October 23rd at 4:30 pm. in Ski- 
bo. All CMU students are invited, and 
encouraged, to come and find out what 
Senate's all about.
CWENS annual mums sale, 1973. Orders
will be taken Monday, October 
28-Thursday, October 31 in Baker Hall, 
from 9:30-3:30. Mums will be distributed 
and sold Friday, November 2 and Saturday 
November 3 in Skibo from 9 to 7. Mums 
priced at $1.25 each.
Martin Neary, brilliant British recitalist and
Organist and Director of Music at Win­
chester Cathedral, will make his first ap­
pearance in Pittsburgh on the famous 
Beckerath Organ at St. Paul's Cathedral, 
Oakland, on Tuesday evening, October 23, 
at 8:30. The recital is open and free to the 
public. For further information: Paul
Koch, at 621-8525.
The new 1973-74 Pre-Law Handbook, the
official law school guide, prepared and 
published by the Association of American 
Law Schools and the Law School Ad­
mission Council, has been issued. Students 
may find a copy in the Reference Room of 
Hunt Library or Tom Kerr's office.
The National Research Council announces
the Research Associateship programs for
1974. These programs provide scientists 
and engineers with opportunities for post­
doctoral research on problems in the fields 
of Chemistry, Space Sciences, Physics, At­
mospheric and Earth Sciences, Engineering, 
Life Sciences and Mathematics. Appoint­
ments are made on a competitive basis and 
are open to recent recipients of the doctor­
ate and in some cases to senior investiga­
tors. Some are open to non-U.S. citizens 
also. Applications must be postmarked by 
January 15, 1974. Awards will be an­
nounced in April. Further information con­
cerning specific research opportunities and 
application materials are available from the' 
Associateship Office, 2101 Constitution 
Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20418.
The Saint Vincent Community Camerata
will offer two performances of Renaissance 
Vocal and Instrumental music on October 
20 and 21, Saturday and Sunday, at 8:15 
pm. in the Science Center Amphitheatre, 
on the Saint Vincent College Campus, La- 
trobe, Pa.-The group will perform in cos­
tume on an environmental set, using instru­
ments from the period. This will be Camer- 
ata's first appearance of the 1973-74 
season, following the production of their 
first long-playing album. For information 
or tickets write Professor Richard Wissolik, 
Camerata, English Department, Saint 
Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa. 15650, or 
call 412-539-9761, Ext. 355. Prices of tick­
ets are: $2.00 per adult, $1.00 per student 
or child, $1.50 for adult groups of 12 or 
more. Tickets are also available at the door.
The Dante Society of Pittsburgh will
present an illustrated lecture on the Sistine 
Chapel and the Vatican on Tuesday, Octo­
ber 16, at 8:30 pm. in the Student Union 
of Duquesne University. The speaker is 
Brother Gilbert Sicundio, general adminis­
trator of Maryknoll College in Rome. The 
general public is invited.
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center
announces:
1) A Lunch and Lecture Series entitled 
"Perspectives on the Jews of Eastern Eur­
ope.” Monday, October 22, Professor 
Michel Roublev of the University of Pitts­
burgh will speak on "The Communist 
Phase." It is held at noon in the Hillel 
Library, 3rd floor. Cost for lunch is $.75.
2) An Intercampus Graduate Social will 
be held on October 20 at 9 pm. in the 2nd 
floor lobby, Y-ICK Building, 315 S. Belle- 
field Ave. There will be a live band and 
refreshments. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel-Jewish University Center.
3) A Jewish Philosophy Series spon­
sored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish Universi­
ty Center is held on Sunday nights at 7:30 
pm. in the 3rd floor Hillel Lounge in the 
Y-ICK Building on Beliefield Ave. On Oc­
tober 21, Jonathan Broido of the Universi­
ty of Pittsburgh will speak on "Can There 
Be a Faith of Reason?”
4) Israeli Folk Dancing sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
is held every Monday night at 8 in the first 
floor Ladies Lounge in the Y-ICK on 
Belief ield Ave.
The Book Store will begin returning unsold
Fall semester books to the publishers on 
November 9, 1973. No textbooks will be 
accepted for exchange or credit after Octo­
ber 31. The Book Store policy on returns 
within two weeks of purchase date is being 
strictly enforced now, so the November 9 
date does not mean that books purchased 
early in the semester may be returned now. 
Students are urged to anticipate their needs 
of the remainder of the semester because 
special orders will not be processed for 
texts that have been returned. Reorders 
will be placed for sold out titles as long as 
time permits.
Interested in becoming a Senator? Petitions
for Student Government Elections may be 
picked up at the Skibo Information Desk, 
now through October 30th. Completed pe­
titions must be returned no later than 
October 30th.
WRCT, enjoying its last days as an AM
radio station, is having a contest. Prize: 
$25 savings bond and 25 albums. The per­
son who designs the best "logo” for the 
station wins. A "logo” is a visual symbol, 
like the one on the large WRCT speaker 
that you've seen outside Skibo. Our new 
logo must include the call letters 
"WRCT-FM" and our FM frequency, 
which will be 88.3. To enter, pick up an 
entry blank at WRCT, the Main Desk of 
Mo rewood Gardens, or the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Invitation to all CMU and Chatham
Freshmen to attend Breakfast on Sunday, 
October 21 at Third Presbyterian Church, 
5th and Negley, 9:15 am. and invitation to 
worship at 11 am. service.
Design Issue Series: Expanding Frontiers of
Design. "Human Factors” Speaker Neils 
Diffrient, Henry Dreyfuss Associates. Octo­
ber 19th, 10 am. Breed Memorial Hall, 
MMCC. Sponsored by Department of 
Design.
The Government Study Commission of
Baldwin Borough invites applications for 
the position of writer to prepare the report 
of its proceedings, as required by law, in­
cluding the final draft of its Home Rule 
Charter. Appl cations should be mailed to: 
Borough of Baldwin, Government Study 
Commission, 3344 Churchview Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15227. All applications are 
requested by November 14, 1973, and shall 
include a resume of qualifications and 
expected salary.
The First meeting for all Women's
Consciousness-Raising Groups at CMU for 
students, staff and faculty will be held 
Tuesday, October 23 at 6:30 pm. in the 
Faculty Lounge, Skibo. If this time is in­
convenient and you are interested, contact 
Susan Christian, Student Activities, Ext. 
214.
W.R.O.A.C. is a free educational service for
Welfare recipients and the general public 
on their rights, regulations, and policies 
under the welfare system. We need volun­
teers to help us with a tag day on Thurs­
day, November 1, to collect money. Call 
471-0180 to volunteer.
Students interested in taking the Engineer
in Training exam should apply in room 110 
Scaife Hall before October 31. The exam 
will take place from 8 am. till 5 pm. on 
December 1. Eligible students are those 
who will graduate in the winter of 1973 
and the spring of 1974. Graduate students 
will also be able to,take the exam.
College Student's Poetry Anthology-The
National Poetry Press announces its Spring 
Competition. The closing date for the sub­
mission of manuscripts by college students 
is November 5. Any student attending ei­
ther junior of senior college is eligible to 
submit his verse..There is. no limitation as 
to form or -theme. Shorter works -are pre-± >- • - "v.i* \>fr- .
ferred by the Board of Judges, because of 
space limitations. Each poem must be 
typed or printed on a separate sheet, and 
must'bear the name and home address of 
the student, and the college address as well. 
Manuscripts should be sent to the office of 
the press: National Poetry Press, 3210 
Selby Ave. Los Angeles, California. 90034.
Bluegrass Coffeehouse. Fried chicken and
watermelon. Thursday: free. Friday and 
Saturday: 50 cents. From 9:00 on.
Wherrett Room.
Experienced Editors and writers needed to
kick off new magazine in Tri-State area. A 
very attractive offer will be made, if you 
are the right individual. Call B.R. Maclean, 
11:00 to 5; 323-0773. *
Classified Mk
Custom Print Processing- Color and B/W
from 8 mm. to 2%" by 3%" negatives and 
35mm slides. Dry Mounting, Retouching, 
Special Effects. Darlene Covaleski, ext. 847 
or 441-2766.
1965 Dodge Dart Convertible. 68,000
miles. Excellent Engine. Best offer. Eve- 
nings-362-7320.
French Tutoring by native speaker. All
levels. Very reasonable. 687-9682.
Mother's Helper: room/board exchange for
light duties and baby care, private quarters; 
references required; call 363-5888.
PERSONALS
Dear Anna,
Once upon a midnight lonely, while hoping 
For a one and only 
I wondered what on earth this life was for. 
As I nodded, nearly sleeping, suddenly 
there came a creeping 
There was someone almost leaping—leaping 
through my chamber door.
It was a blonde, with big blue eyes, 
standing there upon my floor—
Only this and nothing more.
I could only ask her plainly, are you 
quite for real, my lady?
"Isn't Tri-X always grainy?” she answered 
as if she knew more.
Her soft and gentle voice was kind: "I've 
come to save you from your mind, 
Here's the contract to be signed—sign it 
right here on your door."
So it began and so it is, together now 
upon the floor—
Together now, forever more.
Carl

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16, 1973-Page 5
Child care center-necessary, beneficial, and fun.
Photo by Bruce Edelston
CMU Day Care Center
by Lois Wholey
In the spring of 1971, Carnegie -Mellon’s Women’s Group realized a growing need for a 
child care center for the children of CMlfs students, staff and faculty members, and 
alumni. That fall, the Women’s Group 
working with concerned parents esta­
blished achild care center in the basement 
of Morewopjd Gardens, licensed by the 
state to carg foir forty-five children. The 
initial purpose of the child care center was 
to enable mothers to maintain or start a 
career, or to further their education. The 
founders of the day care center feel that, 
since the parent of the child attending the 
center is serving the university in a number 
of roles, the un»' ersity should offer some 
provision for tfye qare of their children.
Group Consciousness
Presently there are twenty eight 
childreft enrolled in the child care center.
The center offers an environment in which 
social, emotional, intellectual and physical 
growth can occur simultaneously, and in 
which a child can develop his potential as a 
unique being. The youngsters develop a 
group consciousness, an awareness of the 
feelings of others, and a deep sense of 
achievement from sharing the 
responsibility for helping others. Those 
involved feel it is beneficial for the children 
to know that their parents, like themselves, 
are also students or somehow related to the 
CMU community.
Support Needed
However, the “child care center cannot 
operate self-sufficiently. In a recent 
interview with Ms. Mary Irwin, director of 
the child care center, she stated, “Day care 
is mandatory, there’s no way around it.
The center needs the CMU community 
support. I feel day care should be regarded 
as a benefit, no different than Blue Shield,
Blue Cross, or Major Medical.” Ms. Irwin 
went further to explain that very few day 
care centers are self sufficient. The 
competition in the university area is for the 
most part funded by benefactors other 
than the parents.
Day care is an expensive proposition. In 
order to function, a well qualified staff is 
needed, as well as equipment and supplies, 
food for the children and funds for rental 
of facilities. At this moment the child care 
center is trying to pull itself out of a shaky 
financial position. Ms. Irwin comments,
“We’re trying to go from operating in the 
red to not only operating in the black, but 
also having a financial cushion. I’m 
skeptical about this .... but I hate to see 
parents assume full responsibility-that’s 
impossible.
Staff Council
The 1973-74 Staff Council is pleased to 
announce its members and officers.
Chairperson: Carol Zera, Architecture. 
Vice Chairperson: Ethel Sltrasser, Car­
negie Education Center
Recording Secretary: Nancy Froehlich, 
Physics
Corresponding Secretary: Harriet Mer­
rill, Statistics
Treasurer: Victor Lechowicz, Mechan­
ical Engineering
Fringe Benefits Chariperson: Thelma 
Sheaffer, Physical Plant;
Members: Leatrice Abrams, Mellon In­
stitute; Gilbert Arnold, Mellon Institute; 
Richard Barnhart, Public Relations; Vir­
ginia Bloom, GSIA; Alvin Brannick, Devel­
opment; Grace Evans, Hunt Library; 
Carolyn Hendrix, Mettalurgy; Carol Kauf­
man, Fine arts; Karen Mack, Mellon Insti­
tute; Robert Matthews, GSIA; Robert 
McCurdy, Student Activities; Louise Neg- 
ley, Mellon Institute; Anthony Parker, Mel­
lon Institute; Sidney Pollack, Mellon 
Institute; Sally Rosemeyer, Hunt Lobrary;
Francis Samuels, Mettalurgy; Virginia 
Schenck, H&SS/MMMC; Robert Thumm, 
Mechanical Engineering; Hans Tuche, 
Chemistry.
The Staff Council was formed in the 
Spring of 1972 to represent staff interests 
on campus. Last year the council estab­
lished itself as a viable organization, form­
ulated a constitution, determined its 
identity, and defined the principal areas of 
concern to staff members. As a result of 
the response to a questionnaire circulated 
last year the council set as first priority 
pension benefits. Since there is some urgen­
cy to the pension situation, the Fringe Ben­
efits Committee will continue to press this 
issue. However, the Staff Council intends 
to expand its efforts into all areas of staff 
concert. Any staff personnel who are inter­
ested in serving on committees; who have 
suggestions, criticisms, or information; or 
who would like to aid in the communi­
cations network please contact and Staff 
Council member or write P.O. Box 20, 
CMU.
The Staff Council will meet the first 
Thursday of each month at 12:00 noon in 
Skibo 45. Minutes of all meetings are on 
file in the reference department of Hunt 
Library.
Why would anybodytakeROTC?
"With me. it ci11 
came down to one- word. 
Money. 1 needed a 
scholarship to "o to 
college. And I j»'ot one 
in>ni Army R() K 11 
pays lor all mv tuition, 
books and lab lees... 
it s really a m>od deal.
y
V
S
'M\ reasons arc 
basically sellish. 1 uuess 
Jobs aie really pettini; hard 
to "et illesi* days, und I 
kiu m l< >r a lai t that a l<>l t >1 
emp!o\ ci s think an R( ) I (. 
t£uv's "ot .i head stai 1 in 
management and tilings 
^ like that:'
I ne\erconsidered imsrll rspn iall\ 
pal riot ii . but I ilo I eel that everyone s 
<;ot an obi it^at ion to his < ount ry. \nd b\ 
taking \i im R( ) l ( , I II "et to serve 
mine as an oil " ei It s that simple!'
¦ M avbe I’m dll lei enl. 
but l\e been i oils idei ill"' the 
\i im as j < ji i*i*i 1 reall\ 
think I ran < out li bui t 
somethin”. ( bailee tlunus. 
make them bet tel you know
ARMY ROTC
RM 203, GYMNASIUM 
Carnegie Mellon Univ.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 16, 1973"i*- • n -f à 'Bàoloò tfATRAT 3HT
The Making ofa Lawyer
by Sharon Curcio
The pre-law option was introduced 
three years ago to CMU by Dr. Sochatoff 
of the English Department, Dr. Schaeffer 
of the History Department, Thomas Kerr 
of AMS, Dean Steinberg of H&SS, and Dr. 
Hayes of H&SS. These instructors felt that 
a student who intended to study law 
should have the opportunity to prepare for 
the legal profession on the undergraduate 
level. Dr. Sochatoff stated that law schools 
want students to develop three basic skills: 
the ability to read analytically and com- 
prehendingly, the ability to think clearly, 
and the ability to express oneself both on 
paper and orally. CMU’s pre-law program is 
designed to help students acquire these 
abilities. Currently twenty-three students 
participate in the pre-law program as either 
self-defined or double majors. Dr. 
Sochatoff said that the pre-law program 
does not directly prepare students for the 
LSAT and is not a cram course, but 
provides the student with the basic skills 
necessary for creditable performance in law 
school. Reputable law schools closely 
examine a student’s undergraduate grades 
his LSAT score, and his charactei 
references. Dr. Sochatoff mentioned that 
professional law schools emphasize 
“breadth”, or the scope of a student’s 
abilities.
Mr. Thomas Kerr, an advisor for pre-law 
students and known for his work with the 
American Civil Liberties Union, told the 
TARTAN that the interest in post-graduaft 
legal studies and the professional law at 
CMU has grown in proportion to the 
nationwide increase of the last five years 
According to Mr. Kerr, CMU’s pre-law 
option is not a general or inspecific area oi 
study for graduate law schools only want 
the undergraduate to be prepared to study 
law. They will provide the actual study and 
train the undergraduate (or graduate 
student at this time) within the structure 
of their programs. Mr. Kerr specified: “One 
can get an excellent preparation for law 
school at CMU, no matter whether one 
chooses corporate practice, patent law, oi 
private practice. For instance, the electrical 
engineer could supplement his pre-law 
courses with .administration and manage­
ment courses and build a fine background 
for patent law. As for general practice, 
H&SS undergraduates acquire a good bases 
for this within the coursework of that 
school. When asked how he approached 
law in the classroom, Mr. Kerr responded: 
“I teach law, not a point of view; my work 
with the American Civil Liberties Union 
comes into play in the classroom only if 
perhaps an interesting case illustrates con: 
stitutional law.” Mr. Kerr does not “grow 
stale” in the classroom because, “Pm 
directly involved with law outside of the 
classroom; thus I keep up with the changes 
and developments in the legal process.” 
Students in the pre-law program have 
only two basic requirements: a “Founda­
tions of Law” course and “Government 
and the Law”. Dr. Sochatoff added that 
British history provides valuable insight 
into the historical development of law 
since common law is not only the pre­
decessor, but the foundation of our con­
stitutional government. Besides the core 
distribution of H&SS, the pre-law students 
are advised to take “Law and 
Technology,” “Readings in Law,” and
“Law in Modern American Society.” The 
senior pre-law student must submit a major 
written study on an approved aspect of law, 
or participate in field work. A pre-law 
internship, participation in the pre-trial 
justice program, or in Welfare Rights Legal 
Aid and Neighborhood Legal Services 
constitutes a field experience. Most pre-law 
students prefer the field work. Mr. Kerr 
explained that the pre-trial justice program 
is supported by various grants and allows 
the student to study the question of bail, 
to do research for a practicing lawyer, or 
work in conjunction with the American 
Civil Liberties Union. In 1972 one pre-law 
senior chose the Neighborhood Legal 
Services, a program of legal aid for the 
poor, as her field requirement.
A Students View
Kerry Greenwald, a senior majoring in 
pre-law and economics, feels that CMU’s 
loosely structured pre-law option allows 
the student to structure the program for 
himself. He stated, “I think the pre-law 
option is a good foundation for law school; 
it maximally exercises one’s reading, 
writing, and thinking abilities.” /
Formerly an electrical engineering 
major, Kerry entered the pre-law option 
under the advice of Dr. Sochatoff. Last 
semester Kerry experienced the Washing­
ton Semester, an intensive governmental 
study, conducted by the American 
University in Washington, D.C. Sixty 
students representing a national «-cross 
section were selected for this semester. 
Requirements for the Washington semester 
are a high quality point average, a serious 
interest in political science or governmental 
studies, and personal recommendations 
from one’s professors. The intense study of 
the Washington Semester fell into three 
segments; three or four weekly political 
science seminars, an internship in the 
governmental department chosen by the 
student, and an independent investigation.
The independent investigation is the 
student’s research of the topic submitted 
with his application for the semester. The 
Washington Semester familiarizes the 
students with the operation of each 
branch.
The participants interviewed the key 
officials of various departments and 
bureaus, and examined the aspects of each 
piece of the governmental framework as 
well as the operation of the federal process 
as a whole. In addition to the seminars, the 
participants poured over innumerable 
political science texts, the Congressional 
Record, the Washington Post, and other 
political journals; students lived with these 
vital information sources.
According to Kerry students in the 
Washington semester received frank, off- 
the-record honesty from the justices, 
senators, congressmen, experts, legal 
counselors, aides, and bureaucrats, whom 
they questioned. Moreover, if one of the 
students were to breach this mutual 
agreement of confidence and reveal or 
publish an “off the cuff’ remark, the 
student and his respective university would 
be prosecuted. Kerry said that the 
Washington Semester compressed four 
years of political science into four months; 
it was a “dynamic experience” for him.
Kerry’s investigative study probed the 
operation of the*National Student Ldbby. 
The National Student Lobby was founded 
at the University of California at Berkeley 
over three and one-half years ago. The 
purpose of the National Student Lobby is 
to represent students on the national level 
on issues of student concern, affecting 
students as students. The NSL gauge what
issues students are concerned about fromI jiimirteji
The Missing 
Deposit
Due to a mixup in the housing office 
last spring, freshman dormitory residents 
weren’t asked to pay the $25 security 
deposit along with their housing reservat­
ion deposit. The letter assigning freshmen 
to their rooms supposedly requested them 
to pay up, but apparently few have.
The security deposit is normally refund­
ed when a student leaves the dorms. In the 
meantime, the cost of keys that a student 
loses, furniture that he damages, fire 
extinguishers he discharges, and other such 
items, gets deducted from the deposit.
If a student fails to pay the deposit, no 
action will be taken against him, according 
to Housing Director James Curl. But Curl 
notes that if a student owes housing money 
but has not paid the deposit, the university 
will put the amount on the student’s billing 
record. If he does not pay promptly, his 
grades might then be withheld or he might 
be barred from registration.
If you just feel like talking-Drop in or call 
Peer Help. Baker Hall 150 A 687-7414.
the response they receive on ’the" nat 
issue referendum distributed to campuses 
throughout the country. The top issues 
include such vital matters as the Higher 
Education Funds, student loans, the 
minimum wage bill, and student airfare.
After seven months of research, Kerry 
compiled his findings in a 250 page 
document. Last month the document 
received a copyright from the Library of 
Congress, as it is the first extensive work 
on a unique and little known topic.
NEW DIRECTIONS PRODUCTIONS'4NCj. 
is a newly* formed production company, 
managed by youngdudes. which will produce 
avant garde forms of music. Not that we 
dislike hard driving rock, but we do prefer 
more natural, backwoods, deep root, earthy 
forms of music. Our first concert is what's 
happening in popular music today
THE NASHVILLE SOUND
a big evening 
prices:
of top stars at reasonable
Don Gibson Skeeter Davis 
Barbara Mandrell Country Cavaleers 
Friday, October 26, 8:00 P.M.
Syria Mosque, reserved seats $5.00; $4.75; 
and $3.75 at Skibo and all National Rec­
ord Marts.
C-MU Lecture Series on Human Sexuality
REPRODUCTION AND PREGNANCY
Dr. Marilyn Goldsmith, Dept, of Biology, U. of Pgh.
Oct. 17, Wednesday
Breed Hall, MM Bldg.
8:00p.m.
j|e
A discussion of the male and female reproductive systems, reflections 
by a couple who has experienced a pregnancy, a film of an actual birth.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TART AN-Tuesday, October 16.1973-Page 7
•Letters:
continued from page 2 
Dear Editor:
Your interview with Dr. Gregg, the new 
Psychology department chairman, touched
? briefly on students’ desire for clinical 
psychology courses at CMU, as well as 
what the role of the Counseling Center is. 
Let me offer more precies information. 
Within the psychology major, there are five 
tracks, or specialization areas available, one 
of which is the 
personality/abnormal/clinical track. Within 
this track, available courses include per-
? sonality theory, research methods, abnor­
mal, and advanced seminars in intervention 
(psychotherapy, counseling, biofeedback, 
behavioral therapy, and so on.) Further­
more, courses in neuroanatomy, behavioral 
pharmacology, statistics, child develop­
ment, learning theory, and cognition are as 
pertinent to clinical psych as they are to 
any other kind of psychology.
r The interview indicated that CMU’s lack 
of a medical school was somehow an ob­
stacle to providing clinical courses. This is 
simply not the case. Clinical psychologists 
are no longer tubercular writers of Inkblot 
horoscopes, solemly obeying the instruc­
tions of mental hospital physicians. Fur­
thermore, the department has working a- 
greements with dozens of community agen- 
h cies for the placement of students 
interested in clinical experience for course 
credit.
As for the Counseling Center, the inter­
view says, “even the staff of the oounselfng 
center never performs the diagnostic 
testing for mental problems.” In fact, 
CMU’s counselors are trained and experi­
enced in diagnostic testing and perform it 
^ whenever circumstances require. The pri­
mary role of CMU’s counselors is to work 
with clients (faculty, staff, students, etc.) 
on problems of adjustment. The “adjust­
ment problem” category includes every­
thing from vocational uncertainty to test 
phobia to depression to acute psychosis.
I would like to assure students that they 
have ample opportunity to learn the busi­
ness of clinical and counseling psychology 
despite the shortage of manpower within 
that area of the psychology department.
John Sappington 
Psychology Department 
Counseling Center
Dear Editor:
I apologize for not responding to your 
* survey. I didn’t think it would have been 
appropriate since I haven’t been forced to 
take a modern language course since high 
school. Also, I seldom answer TARTAN 
surveys because I hate to cut up a good 
newspaper. As for the modern language 
proficiency requirements, my dictionary 
says that English became a Modern lan­
guage in 1475. H&SS is bound to catch on 
soon being experimental and all, so what’s 
the hassle?
Poindexter Moony
Editor:
A month ago, my husband, three year 
old daughter and I came to Pittsburgh from 
California. We are farm workers: my hus­
band has worked the vineyards for many 
years. We have been members of the Uni­
ted Farm Workers Union since 1965. We 
have traveled 3000 miles to ask you for 
help.
We, the farmworkers, have formed the
United Farm Workers Union because no 
one worker can change the discrimination 
and inequality that has existed for decades 
in the California farm system. Only by 
working together can we gain the basic 
rights of human beings that other people 
take for granted.
But the growers are powerful. Since 
they could not stop us from forming a 
Union, they are now using their wealth to 
destroy our union. The growers are using 
the courts, police, and Teamsters as their 
weapons. When we went on strike this Ap­
ril to protest the sweetheart contracts of 
the growers and Teamsters, the growers 
were able to get court injunctions that se­
verely restricted our right to free speech 
and peaceful picket lines.
When we were picketing in Delano, 
Calif., there was a court injunction that 
said we could only use bull horns one hour 
a day. (To talk to workers who have not 
yet walked out of the fields, it is necessary 
to use bull horns since many work more 
than 50 feet from the picket lines.) One 
day when we talked past the one hour 
restriction the police came and started ar­
resting the men. When all the men were 
arrested, we women took over the picket 
lines. But before they took our men away, 
we blocked the road. We told the police 
that since we had used the bullhorns, we 
should be arrested too. The police started 
pushing us out of the way. But we 
wouldn’t run. The women closest to the 
police were beaten.
One policeman started pushing me in 
the back with his billy club. Then he grab­
bed my arm, twisted it behind me and hit 
my upper arm with his billy club. I still 
suffer flashes of great pain, and since com­
ing to Pittsburgh, I have found out that he 
fractured a bone in my arm.
Throughout the strike, many men and 
women were beaten worse than I was, not
only by the police but by thugs hired by 
the growers and Teamsters. All of this 
hatred just because we are standing up for 
the right to determine our own lives.
Our peaceful picket lines never received 
any protection from attacks. When two 
farm workers were murdered, it was clear 
that the violence would not cease. Rather 
than risk more lives, we decided to call off 
the picket lines and go across the country 
on the boycott.
The boycott of head lettuce and grapes 
is the only way that we can win back our 
protective union contracts. Without UFW 
contracts, we must return to a system of 
race and sex discrimination and hopeless­
ness. With UFW contracts, we gain dignity, 
and hope for a better future for our child­
ren, because we have a say in what affects 
our daily lives. But in order to win the 
boycott, we need your help. Without your 
support we can’t win. University students 
across the country helped us win the first 
grape boycott in 1970 by getting their uni­
versities to support the boycott, by 
standing on picket lines, and collecting 
donations.
We need your support by not buying or 
eating head lettuce and grapes in or out of 
school. We need your help with picket lines 
and food and clothing for all of us here in 
Pittsburgh.
We also need your support in boycot­
ting all Gallo wines. Following in the foot­
steps of the grape and lettuce growers, the 
Gallo wine company signed a sweetheart 
contract with the Teamsters. The Gallo 
Workers were formerly covered by a UFW 
contract, and now have also lost that 
protection.
And we need your support by forming a 
university committee to aid the Farm 
Workers. My husband and I have been talk­
ing to interested students and classes on 
campus and a committee is already form­
ing. We would like to see it grow into a 
large, well represented group. I would like 
to personally invite all CMU students as 
well as faculty and staff, to attend the next 
meeting on October 17, Wednesday, at 
6:00 pm. in Skibo room 39.
Only with your help can justice be won.
SI SE PUEDE!
(Yes, it can be done!)
Tomasita Rodriguez 
Pittsburgh Boycott Committee
(To help, or for more information, please 
call us at 521-6781, or visit us at 1443 
Severn St., Squirrel Hill)
+Sign of the good neighbor.
The American Red Cross
o#»ortto««| contribute for pottle foo* If
cxóa/yé
PART TIME WORK AVAILABLE MANY LOCATIONS VARIED SCHEDULES
APPLICANTS MUST BE 
18 YRS. OF AGE & OLDER
Call Mr. Alwine for additional information 
682-8181 
Between 10 A.M. & 2 P.M.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Dear Akadama MamaMama’sLove Potions.
Dear Akadama Mama:
Have you any interest in 
Women’s Lib?
President, Showgirls’ Lib, 
Las Vegas
Dear Ms. President:
I’m more interested in Mama’s 
Lib and Mama feels if you do right 
by your Daddy, he’ll do right by you. 
Now my Daddy, I treat him right. 
When he comes dragging home at 
night I fluff up his ego. Slip off his 
shoes. Hand him his pipe. And head 
for the Akadama wine. Forget those 
tooty-fruity wines. They’re for boys, 
not for my Old Man. So I get out my 
Akadama recipe card and mix him 
one of my love potions. You’d be sur­
prised how fine a Saturday can be 
when you start it off with Akadama 
Red and orange juice. And the sec­
ond best way I know to end the day 
is with Akadama Red and cham­
pagne. So if you want my advice, Ms.
Imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. California
President, just keep passing that 
Akadama. Take it from Mama. 
FAME & FORTUNATE.
Lately a lot of Akadama fans 
have been sending me their favorite 
recipes. Fortunately there’s enough 
roomleft in this week’s column to 
pass some of them on 
to you.
Akadama Red and bitter lemon tonic.
Akadama Red with 
apple juice.
Akadama Red with ginger ale.
Akadama Red and tonic water.
Akadama Red with cream soda.
Akadama Red and lemonade.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama, the wine 
that tastes a lot more than it costs.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TART AN-Tuesday, October 16, 1973
OVENS’ Role 
Re-evaluated
by Debbie Siegel
“CWENS is the national honorary 
society for sophomore women dedicated to 
the purpose of fostering leadership, scholar­
ship, and fellowship among women of the 
sophomore class; of promoting leadership 
among freshman women; and of serving the 
interests of the college or university in 
every way possible.” This is the philosophy 
of the honorary sophomore group which is 
trying to assert a greater presence on the 
campus of CMU. CWEN is an Anglo-Saxon 
word that means lady or queen.
Historically, the organization of CWENS 
goes back to 1922 when it was first estab­
lished at the University of Pittsburgh. It’s 
presence on Carnegie's campus began with 
an honorary society for sophomore women 
called Acleas which was recognized by the 
Carnegie Tech Student Council on 
November 13, 1926. Acleas was
recommended to the National Society of 
CWENS on March 19, 1929 and in May of 
that year Acleas became the Eta Chapter of 
CWENS. In this spirit, CWENS trys to 
preserve traditions by continuing certain 
activities such as the mum sale for the 
campus and community before home­
coming.
In re-evaluating its role at CMU, CWENS 
is seeking to be a service organization as 
well as helping individuals grow through 
participation in service. They are con­
sidering a blood drive in the spring, a 
Christmas party at a children’s hospital, 
tutoring, and running another candy sale.
Selection for CWENS is based upon a 
grade point average of 2.5 or greater in the 
first semester of the freshman year. In the 
case of pass-fail students, entrance is based 
on a recommendation from the dean. 
Selection extends to all colleges within the 
University.
This year, CWENS plans to initiate its 
members at the end of their freshman year 
instead of during the sophomore year in 
order to get them accustomed to the 
concept of the group earlier.
Although CWENS has elected officers, 
everyone in the group is delegated a certain 
responsibility. Dean Milligan serves as the 
official advisor and Sue Christian, assistant 
director of student activities, serves as an 
advisor for certain functions. Karen 
Fredricson, a CWENS from last year, serves 
as a junior advisor.
Inspection
continued from page 1
be notified before the inspections actually 
take place. The only time we wouldn’t 
notify the student is when we have reason 
to believe an emergency (exists.)”
Dean Swank added,“There isn’t much 
privacy in a dorm room anyway; you don’t 
need people from the housing office 
wandering in at will.”
______
for 
lessRUGS
0 with your ID Card
9x12$ $15. $19, $29, $39 
^ also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
\ Alio wall Indian rufi
furry rug* an« badipraadt. Low 
>' pricot oriantal ruqi in many tiiat 'v
ASK AIOUT DISCOUNT FURNITUHE 'i
'' r u a c E'C 5426 Walnut^ CHASE S Shadyside
\% 10 a.m. . I p.m. Sat. ‘til S
'v For diraction* call 421-I OK
Eightfantasticsubscriptionflicks.
KATHARINE HEPBURN PAUL SCOFIELD LEE REMJCK KATE RED JOSEPH GOTTEN BETSY BLAIR
EDWARDALBEES
DELICATOBAKWWl
—AFHM OHBCTED BY«—TONY RICHARDSON
STACY KEACH 
ROBERT STEPHENS 
HUGH GRIFFITH
JOHN OSBORNES
-»AFW DIRECTED BY—GUY GREENN ew SOIEEfLAYBY — i .EDWARD ANHALT
ZERO MOSTEL GENE WILDER AND KAREN BLACK
EUGENE IONESCOS
-“A FltM DKKTED BY-TOM OHORGAN^"•SCREETfLAY BY-JULIAN BARRY
THE NATIONAL THEATRE CQMB\NY OF ENGLAND ALAN BATES LAURENCE OLIVIER JOAN PLOWRIGHT
ANTON CHEKHOVS
Studet nahsbn ar—» LAURENCE OLIVIER
CYRIL CUSACK IAN HOiM MICHAEL JWSTON VMEN MERCHANT TERENCE RIGBY BMIL ROGERS
HAROLD^PINTER’S
—AfXMDKECTUMPETER HALL
BROCK PETERS MELBA M0DRE RAYMOND ST JACQUES
KURT WEILL G MAXWELL ANDERSONS
—AF«WD«®CTEDW—iDANIEL MANNMMSCKEmAyBYaHiALFRED HAYES
LEE MARVIN FREDRIC MARCH ROBERT RYAN JEFF BRIDGES BRADFORD DtLLMAN
EUGENE*1ONEILLS
KFIM DRECTED BY-JOHN FRANKENHEIMER
RICHARD OCALLAGHAN 
SIMON GRAY'S
»AFVM DKECTED BY-HAROLD PINTER
Great plays transformed into 
great new movies by your 
kind of writers, directors, 
stars.
One Monday and Tuesday 
a month, October through 
May. Four showings, two 
evenings and two matinees, 
and that’s it.
Starts October 29th and 
October 30th at a local 
popcorn factory (see theatre 
list below).
SPECIAL COLLEGE DISCOUNT
Seats are limited. Get down to 
the box office (or Ticketron) 
with a check. Eight evenings: 
$30. Eight matinees: $16 for 
students and faculty, $24 for 
everybody else.
THE AMERICAN FILM THEATRE1350 Ave. of the Americas, N.Y.. N.Y. 10019 Phone: (212) 489-8820
THE AMERICAN FILM THEATRE IS A PRESE NTATION OF
AMERICAN EXPRESS FILMS. INC.
AND THE ELY LANDAU ORGANIZATION, INC.
IN ASSOCIATION WITH CINE VISION LTEE (CANADA)
HERE'S WHERE YOU GO TO JOIN 
THE AMERICAN FILM THEATRE
Pittsburgh Araa:
CHESWICK 
Cheswick West 
McMURRAY 
Crest 
PITTSBURGH 
McKnight
PITTSBURGH 
Penn Hills 
PITTSBURGH 
Strand Oakland 
WEST MIFFLIN 
Cinema World 
VERSAILLES
Eastland 2
EXHIBITION DATES
Monday SeriesTuesday Series
Oct 29.1973Oct. 30. 1973
Nov. 12. 1973Nov 13.1973
Dec. 10.1973Dec. 11.1973
Jan. 21. 1974Jan. 22.1974
Feb. 4.1974Feb. 5.1974
Mar. 11. 1974Mar. 12.1974
April 8. 1974April 9,1974
May 6.1974May 7.1974

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16. 1973-Page 9
Don't missFilm Arts Society 
presents
theTHE LORDtrialOFOrson Welles
Thursday October 18 ;THE FLIES
4 7:30 9DH 2210
DH 2210Thursday 
October 25
Admission: 750! 4:00 7:30 9:00 Admission: 750
$7.00 year pass$7.00 year passL «**, <¦'—^ ^ \S4.00 semester oass ;$4.00 semester pass
BUSINESSsportsphotography
FEATURESNEWS
JOIN THE TARTAN
room SO skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16. 1973
entertainment
The classic tale of Cinderella opened the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theater’s 7th season to a 
large and enthusiastic crowd at Heinz Hall 
this past Friday night. With the help of 
guest artist Peter Schaufuss as the prince, 
principal dancer Dagmar Kessler as 
Cinderella and a lavish outlay for costumes, 
scenery and special effects, the ballet 
promised to be a full-out extravaganza, 
appropriate for a fairy tale so loaded with 
magic and imagery. Unfortunately, 
director-choreographer Nicholas Petrov 
seemed to expend the majority of his 
effort and imagination on the first Act. 
slowly declining into an anti-climactic 
finale in Act III.
The ballet opens at the home of 
Cinderella, where we witness the greed of 
her two ugly stepsisters, comically 
portrayed by Kenneth Johnson and Orrin 
Kayan. as they fight over a shawl they are 
sewing. The goodness of Cinderella is soon 
displayed as she takes pity on a visiting 
beggarwoman (fairy godmother in 
disguise). A hilarious scene ensues in which 
a dance teacher attempts to teach the ugly 
stepsisters and step-mother some grace for 
the upcoming ball. The next scene, 
Cinderella’s transformation into a beautiful 
princess, is dwelt on in great detail and I 
found it the most enchanting part of the 
ballet. The Fairy Godmother, complete 
with cascading blonde curls, waves her 
magic wand and a series of fairies appear, 
each representing a season of the year and 
each presenting Cinderella with a part of 
her costume. The dancing in these inter­
ludes was generally good on the part of 
each fairy (the Autumn Fairy, danced by 
Jordeen Ivano, deserves special praise for 
her flair and finesse) but only mediocre on 
the part of the fairies’ retinues, who never 
danced quite in step. The costumes were 
impressive throughout the Fairy God­
mother’s scene, calling forth more than a 
few laughs when the winter boys came out 
dressed in bulky snowmen suits to perform 
a rather roly-poly but clever dance.
Twelve little dwarfs, played by children 
who study ballet at Point Park College, 
circled Cinderella with glittering numbers 
from 1 through 12, warning her of her time 
limitation at the ball. At a wave from the 
Fairy Godmother, a huge clock descends 
and lights up slowly until it hits twelve, 
accompanied by appropriate percussive 
sounds from the orchestra. Finally, after a 
very brief disappearance, Cinderella 
reappears clad in her new costume and 
rides off on a white coach led by four 
white reindeer along a path of swirling 
white mist, leaving the audience spellbound 
and eager for the ball.
What a letdown it is when Act II opens 
on a ballroom with the same forest scenery 
that surrounded Cinderella’s house and no 
indication of royalty other than a rather 
inconspicuous-looking chair placed way off 
stage right near the wings and supposedly 
representing the throne. My first thought 
was that the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater’s 
rather serious financial situation had hit 
home right after purchasing the sets and 
costume material for Act !. It seemed
highly unlikely that the set designers could 
have forgotten that the contrast between 
Cinderella’s humble hut and the 
richly-embellished palace was essential to 
the story, but frankly, I didn’t understand 
why Cinderella would want to leave her 
homey-looking hearth to live in that ugly 
palace. (Maybe that’s why she didn’t look 
overjoyed during the finale?) The costumes 
during the ball scene were late-eighteenth- 
century-Americana which I found con­
fusing. especially in light of Prokofiev’s 
quote (reprinted in the program), that: 
“Although the fairy tale of Cinderella is 
found among many peoples, I wanted to 
take it up as a genuine Russian fairy 
story ...”
The saving grace of the poorly- 
conceived ball scene was the spectacular 
dancing of Peter Schaufuss, making his first 
appearance in the ballet as the Prince. His 
leaps brought gasps from the crowd and his 
multiple pirouettes were so well-controlled 
that he seemed almost reluctant to land 
when the music called him on. The Pitts­
burgh Symphony Orchestra was somewhat 
disappointing during Schaufuss’s dancing, 
plodding along with nary a crescendo, 
insensitive to his dynamic explosions of 
energy alternating with his more low-keyed 
moments of fluid grace.
Although Kessler’s clean technique and 
elegant poise gave the role of Cinderella a 
royal dignity, her cautiousness, especially 
as contrasted to Schaufuss’s exuberance, 
marred the emotional quality of the part. 
In the final Act, as Schaufuss searches all 
over the world for his beloved princess 
(which, by the way, was done in a rather 
gimmicky fashion with projections ~ot 
spinning globes on the backdrop), the 
audience gets a sense of his desperation 
which is not followed-up on in their some­
what hasty and not particularly joyful 
reunion at the end. Everybody knows that 
fairy tales end happily with gala 
celebrations among the reunited loved 
ones, etc., but when the curtain fell, I 
found myself asking, “Is that it?”
windowless, sandy-colored building behind 
Fine Arts is, raise your hand. If you think 
it’s the Studio Theatre, you’re right and 
you are welcome to stay and read this 
column. If you don’t know and/or don’t 
care, you may turn to the comics or 
perhaps you should read this and learn 
something.
I would guess if you spend a lot of time 
in Science Hall you might not know that 
the Studio Theatre exists, unless maybe 
you spied it on the map they gave you 
when you were a freshman. Anyway, with 
some degree of regularity, about once a 
week there’s a different production in the 
Studio Theatre which usually gives three 
performances. The bill of fare is varied. 
Sometimes there are a couple of one-acts, 
sometimes a master’s degree project, or a 
senior project, or a scene or two from a 
play, or an original work. There are things 
like Hedda Gabler, or Moliere’s The 
Imaginary Invalid; the people who know 
the schedule are dramats, so you’d have to
find it out from them. The tricky thing 
about the Studio Theatre is that it seats 
maybe seventy-five people, so what 
happens is a thing called A Mad Rush To 
Get In, and you don’t have to be a dramat 
to know what that is. By the time the 
doors are opened and you run like hell to 
get a seat, you have been plastered against 
someone’s back on line for forty minutes or 
so, and have been otherwise suffocated and 
stepped upon. While you sit in your 
precious seat for fifteen minutes waiting 
for the play to start you can think about 
how civilized the theatre is.
Lincoln Center has its own experi­
mental studio theatre called The Forum, 
which was in danger of being closed two 
years ago. It’s underneath Lincoln Center’s 
mainstage, The Vivian Beaumont Theatre, 
and it’s really a cute, jazzy little place. The 
problem with it was that it never made 
much money, so they were ready to turn it 
into a movie theatre with a couple of 
structural alterations, until the theatrical 
community in New York got all up in arms 
and wrote all kinds of threatening 
letters... It was a wise decision to 
maintain the theatre as it was; everything 
we’ve ever seen there has been well-done.
All this was in the Jules Irving era of 
Lincoln Center, an era that is gone with the 
arrival of Joseph Papp in his most uptown 
venture to date. There’s a kind of role
Irving, with last year’s production of 
Streetcar Named Desire moving down to a 
Broadway house. Irving left and he seems 
to have taken most of LCR’s old reliable 
performers with him, with Papp moving his 
people in.
We wonder about what will become of 
the familiar LCR performers. Perhaps they 
will just job around with people like Irving, 
or stay at Lincoln Center under Papp. 
From the looks of things, there is likely to 
be a whole new casting pool up at Lincoln 
Center, since actors like Ray Fry, Lois 
Nettleton and Phillip Bosco don’t seem to 
want any truck with David Rabe’s In the 
Boom-Boom Room or other Pappian pro­
ductions. Perhaps they will return later in 
the season, but they’ll certainly be missed 
by the old Lincoln* Center patrons. Papp’s 
audiences will be happy to see their 
favorite faces perform;ng on the classy 
Beaumont boards. These are two entirely 
different types of audience; there’s more 
than likely to be some kind of bitterness.
The last time Rene Aubeijonois worked 
at Lincoln Center was two seasons ago as 
Malvolio in Twelfth Night. But this 
summer he worked with Papp’s New York 
Shakespeare Festival in King Lear, and he 
therefore stands as an example of an extra­
ordinarily gifted performer bridging the 
imaginary gap that is said to be forming 
between the Irving/Papp factions. There 
should be more performers like
Auberjonois. We don’t know if Auber- 
jonois will ever return to Lincoln Center’s 
Rep. Company. He’s cast in Neil Simon’s 
latest for this coming season, and was 
recently seen in an abyssmal ABC Movie of 
the Week. It would be disappointing to see 
actors of his calibre sell themselves to The 
Industry for lack of decent repertory work. 
We might suppose that a lot of the pre- 
Papp Lincoln Center Alumni will be driven 
to this, but perhaps this is overly
pessimistic. Perhaps the whole look of the 
Beaumont and the petite Forum will 
change for the better under Papp’s 
direction.
Which somehow brings us back to the 
little box behind Fine Arts. If we don’t go 
to New York and observe the difference 
between Papp’s Lincoln Center Rep. 
Company and Irving’s for ourselves, we 
should certainly not accept anyone else’s 
judgement about it. The Forum is virtually 
unaccessable to anyone living in Pittsburgh. 
The Studio Theatre productions are as 
equally unaccessable to anyone not in the 
theatre department. That’s the way things 
are. So if you can’t get into the Studio, 
you should certainly allow yourself the 
privilege of seeing the mainstage work, 
which is open to the public. This is the first 
time I’ve ever seen posters up around 
campus advertising a Drama Department 
play. I suppose this is a promotional act of 
some kind, considering all the empty rows 
in Gutchrider last year. Anyway, the first 
production of the Drama Department is 
Does A Tiger Wear a Necktie?, which is about 
a drug rehabilitation center near “a large 
industrial city.” The director, Israel Hicks, 
has returned from a successful summer in 
New York to sort of guest-direct this, so 
it’s a treat, boys and girls. If you forgot to 
get a ticket when they were being dis­
tributed, you get to stand on a Special Line
wait you can think about how civilized you 
are.
-SNK-
by Mark Evan Chimsky
A Touch of Gass has been touted for all 
the wrong reasons. Yes, it is a cool, crisp 
comedy about the vulnerability of the 
human machinery; but in that happy 
vulnerability lies a far greater world of 
tragedy. A Touch of Gass captures per­
fectly such a funny, sad world as it details 
the affair of a rather frazzled, married man 
with a bright divorcee. Both initially seek 
nothing more than a healthy, lusty fling. 
But events veer from their desired course. 
Each rendezvous is bungled. Then love 
enters, like an unexpected party guest, and 
complicates even further, the brisk affair. 
The film is a moving exploration of two 
people who would be totally right for each 
other if circumstance didn’t deem them 
totally wrong. Directed with intelligence 
and verve by Melvin Frank, the film 
features a frantic, charming performance 
by George Segal, and a witty, sensitive 
portrayal of a woman in love by the finest 
actress of this decade, Glenda Jackson. All 
in all, a many-layered parfait of a film- 
rich, sweet, and thoroughly satisfying. It’s 
at the Forum.
The Nixon Theatre has announced 
that Butley which was scheduled 
to open this week, has been 
postponed until early December.
reversal taking place between Papp andon the night you want to go, and while you

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16, 1973-Page 11
Art World
by Cyndy Schmidt
Go to the show currently at the Student 
Gallery. It’s a refreshing, vital experience, 
consisting of works by students from the 
entire university; I think this is especially 
responsible for the variety and the lack of 
pretention in the show.
Everything hung this time is original and 
presented with such honest intentions that 
all the pieces are exciting to see. And that’s 
the only flaw; there’s so much to see and 
so much happening in the paintings and 
drawings that you finally feel like a 
weathervane in a windstorm, buzzing from 
one drawing to another while sneaking a 
peek at that painting you saw earlier. Some 
of the quieter pieces may be overlooked 
because the paintings are all eye-grabbers.
This show is obviously a student 
exhibiton, not because of the quality of 
the work (any of which would enliven a 
“pro” gallery) but because the drawings 
and paintings give the impression of being 
steps in progression toward even better 
work. There are no blatant cop-outs to 
generally accepted popular trends in con­
temporary art; you can see where two or 
three artists’ work had an influence way 
back before the student painting was 
begun, but you $an’^ say that anything 
actually resemb^a certain axUst’s certain, 
work.
There’s an honesty about this work that 
was lacking in the previous exhibit. There 
are no monster egos on display, just 
students who are doing what they like best 
and making no pretentions about being 
artistes. I get the impression that everyone 
^ht^has^somethii^hun^o^inemo^^^l
charge from painting or drawing and that 
charge is relayed to the viewer.
The first painting just assaults the 
senses. This painting proves that naturalism 
isn’t dead, it’s changing, and becoming 
more exciting. A Wyeth would look like a 
calendar picture next to this one. Some 
other stellar works: “Thighs,” “Daylilies,” 
the big orange painting, the big stripe 
painting, the paintings in the back room 
and the drawings in the front room and 
Spike and Angora Honey’s painting. Look 
at everything; it’s difficult to concentrate 
on one piece because the magnetism from 
everything else is so strong.
It’s an excellent show totally and in­
dividually, and it’s just fun to be in the 
same room as all those paintings and 
drawings. A friend at the opening said it in 
two words: “Good stuff.”
Some unidentified friends 
of the CMU Student's Gallery.
EVENTTS:
Mott the Hoople
a slick rock group from England whose 
album All the Young Dudes is catching on 
fast, will be in concert at the Syria Mosque 
on October 18th. This group has been ban­
ned from Albert Hall in London. Call the 
Mosque at 621-3333 for information.
The American 
Film Theatre Series
has just announced a special college sub­
scription rate for the matinee performances 
of only $16.00. To take advantage of the 
special rate, students should go to the local 
participating series theatre and show their
I.D. cards. I suppose the closest local thea­
tre would be the Strand in Oakland, 
although many theatres in the suburban 
area are participating in the series. This 
series is probably the most ambitious and 
creative venture to come along in a long 
time and I urge everyone to take advantage 
of the discount price. For further informa­
tion, you may contact Ms. Carol Sloan at 
261-2883.
The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Chamber Orchestra
composed of 32 members of the big band 
itself will make its Heinz Hall Debut on 
October 19 and 21, under the direction of 
William Steinberg. They’ll be doing up 
some Haydn, some Bach, and some R. 
Strauss. Some tickets are still available at 
the Box Office. Call 281-5000 for 
information.
Exhibition
There will be an exhibition of privately 
owned art from the Pittsburgh area down 
at the Carnegie Museum starting October 
18. All them rich folks in the hills are going 
to let us see what they have festooned 
behind their castle walls all these years. 
The gallery will be open 10-5 Wed. thru 
Sat., 10-9 Tuesday and 2-5 Sunday. 
They’re closed Monday.
Poetry Forum
The next guest at the Poetry Forum is 
Adrienne Rich on Wednesday, October 24 
at 8:15. Tickets are available at a pretty 
reasonable price ($1.75 for students) at all 
those big department stores and down at 
the Forum office in the Carnegie Library.
Big Secret
The Entertainment Editor informed me 
that The Divine Miss M. is returning for 
another engagement at the “Syria 
Moskowitz” (a direct quote from Bette) on 
November 11, and that it’s already sold 
out. The Editor tells me if the Mosque 
were really smart they’d book in The 
Pointer Sisters who are the latest rage in 
New York of the boys in the band who 
know who to watch.
The Pennsylvania Ballet
performance here in Heinz Hall on October 
25 will be conducted by Maurice Kaplow, 
who is the Musical Director of that organi­
zation. The ballet troupe will be per­
forming Balanchine’s Symphony in C and 
Rodham’s In Retrospect. Call 281-5000 for 
more information.
by Stacey Robin Kimbell
I ate in the Taco Hut at 1 pm. Frijoles 
which is beans in gravy, but at the Taco 
Hut is gravy with a few beans and some 
cheddar cheese bits on for 37 cents. 
Thirty-seven cents is the only excuse for all 
that gravy. At 7 pm. without having eaten 
anything since the frijoles, my stomach was 
blown out to a five month pregnancy level 
at least and I began to panic. Either I was 
involved in the world’s quickest gestation 
period or that gravy was so starchy the 
yeast was rising in my stomach. For sure it 
was the yeast and I didn’t flatten out til 
the nexr morning. I didn’t like the idea of 
my stomach being big enough to cradle and
I didn’t like the Taco Hut, a place I never 
would have ventured into if I knew from 
the outside that there were Color on Velvet 
By Number Mexican paintings of matadors 
on the inside. The Taco Hut is a franchise 
of sorts of Mexican food. They say that 
they serve tacos and burridos and tortillas 
and salads and frijoles. What they really 
?serve is gravy. And they serve it for cheap. 
This vile lunch in its entirety cost 56 cents. 
That was with a syrupy root beer and tax. I 
don’t understand how Taco Hut survives. I 
have eaten chicken fat with rock salt on 
matzo and assumed that my stomach was 
lead because it digested and perhaps I am 
weakening because my partners in indiges­
tion not only liked what they ate at Taco 
¿Hut but eat it often and they insist if I try 
again I may not be so dismayed. I’m not 
going to try again but you may, but this is 
fair warning if 6 hours later you have the 
stomach of a Biafran child. (Taco Hut is on 
Forbes Avenue next to the King’s Court 
Theatre.)
Down the block is the Pancake Kitchen. 
(Forbes Ave. off Atwood St.) The enter­
tainment editor accompanied me on this 
trip and we had full intentions of eating at 
McDonalds until two TGIF outcasts insis­
ted otherwise. This leaves me still being the 
only non-kosher American to have never 
eaten at McDonalds. In spite of the course 
of events, Susan ate a hamburger anyways. 
It was a good hamburger on a good sesame 
bun and with whatever she drank it only 
cost 96 cents. Twenty cents more than a 
Big Mac and just as good for sure. Being in 
a pancake house though, I had to eat pan­
cakes. Banana pancakes- 2 big pancakes 
stuffed with banana pudding and folded 
over like omelettes with whipped cream 
down the middle (separating the two pan­
cakes), and confectioners sugar splashed 
everywhere. It was either going to be this 
or the chocolate delight which was with 
chocolate ice cream and syrup and whip­
ped cream. Whipped cream is awful on 
pancakes and so is banana pudding, but 
maple, strawberry, blueberry and honey 
cinnamon syrpus on banana pancakes is 
not so bad, although honey cinnamon syr­
up tastes like liquid penicilin. Also I had an 
endless cup of coffee for 20 cents. This 
experiment in eating only cost $1.97. The 
pancakes themselves were good and very 
big. Pancake Kitchen makes good potato 
pancakes except they serve them with saus­
ages which is all wrong because potato pan­
cakes are a Chanukah food. Their milk 
shakes are nothing more than milk and the 
western omelettes are big and stuffed and 
served with 3 small pancakes. The pancake 
dishes all looked like Better Homes and 
Gardens centerfolds. Pancake Kitchen is 
another Oakland spot that reeks of sub­
urbia with that wall paper that has fake 
velvet designs on it. Not so bad though 
considering the price and how full we all 
were after we had eaten.
In Sunderland, England Alan Collinson 
and his family cut short their camping trip 
vacation because their pug dog Marty 
snored all night in their tent and they got 
no sleep.
Ebony Fashion
There will be a fashion show at Heinz Hall 
sponsored by Ebony magazine on October 
22. Call that same number, 281-5000 for 
information, all you young dudes.
The Moody Blues
concert at the Civic Arena is selling out 
fast, so if you want ticket information call'* 
up quick, 471-1312.
WANTED
ACTORS FOR 
MOVIE
being made in Pittsburgh. Please send 
resume of acting training or experience to 
Mr. Robert Murphy c/o 17 Unger Lane, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16, 1973
by Arnie Kan
The birth of Steely Dan marks modern 
rock’s Second Coming. Both of the group's 
records, “Can’t Buy a Thrill” and “Count­
down to Ecstacy” are so creative, so mu­
sically enjoyable, so lyrically daring and 
yet so commercially potent that I at last 
sense that the rock world may finally be 
ready to stop mourning the demise of the 
Beatles and start celebrating a renaissance 
of the unpredictable excellence that they 
continually achieved.
“Can’t Buy a Thrill,” the first Steely 
Dan relaese, includes two of the best sin­
gles we’ve heard this year. The intelligent 
use of percussion and the unique philo­
sophical stance of “Do it Again” make it 
an irresistable record, but it took the fol- 
low-up, “Reeling in the Years,” with its 
“shuffling” piano and coordinated double 
lead, to convince me that Steely Dan un­
derstands instrumentation, rhythm, in­
ventiveness and, primarily, the sensitivity 
necessary to turn ordinary (if not monoto­
nous) progressions into musical adventures
or complex chord structures into well inte­
grated songs. Every cut on “Thrill” works 
well. “Midnite Cruiser” and “Fire in the 
Hole” are two of the best, both featuring 
Jeff “Skunk” Baxter’s crisp, sharp guitar 
leads superimposed over the agile piano of 
Donald Fagen. Producer Gary Katz and 
engineer Roger Nichols compliment the 
music throughout.
“Only a Fool Would Say That,” de­
scribed in the liner notes as “East Coast 
cynicism” and “a message cha-cha,” is the 
lyrical highlight of the album. Lines like “I 
heard it was you/Talking ‘bout a world/ 
Where all is free/lt just couldn’t be/And 
only a fool would say that” make you take 
notice of the harsh, bittersweet words that 
give each song its individual context and 
definition. Not since James Taylor’s first 
album, dubbed the “Apple Record,” have I 
been so compelled to understand what a 
record had to say. Both “Thrill” and 
“Countdown” prove that the rock lyric is 
actually capable of avoiding obscurity and 
distant second billing.
By the time “Countdown” was released 
late this summer, Rolling Stone and the 
promotional* department of ABC/Dunhill 
had made certain things obvious. Steely 
Dan was named after an iron phallus in the 
novel Naked Lunch since producer Katz 
wanter his group to have more “thrust.” 
The group wasn’t and had no intention of 
becoming, “trendy, (or).. . particularly 
pretty.” (Guitarist Denny Dias became, 
with the weight loss of Canned Heat’s le­
gendary Bob “The Bear” Hite, one of
the conce* /cene
The Strawbs in concert last 
Thursday in Skib Ballroom. 
It was really berry good.
Reilly
rock’s biggest personages.) The image of 
the group was so unconventional-so re­
moved from rock’s current manic personal- 
ity-that there were few people who had 
any idea of what to expect from “Count­
down.” The new album has only reinforced 
this healthy anti-image.
Where “Can’t Buy a Thrill” was a rock 
album that enjoyed a successful flirtation 
with progressive jazz, “Countdown” is se­
curely jazz oriented. “Show Biz Kids” re­
sembles “Do It Again” musically and 
“Only a Fool” lyrically, the one difference 
being that on “Countdown” the group has 
consolidated to the point where it can 
loosen up considerably. As a result, 
“Countdown” provides us not only the 
flashy technical leads of “Thrill” (the out­
standing example being the double lead of 
“Reeling in the Years”) but with some 
expertly executed jazz riffs as well.
“Kids” and “My Old School” are the 
two best cuts on the record. The latter 
again shows us the skill of pianist Donald 
Fagen, this time playing some fine R&B 
piano a la Motown. The background voices 
on both tracks are overwhelming, as are the 
horns on “School.” The group enters the 
Electronic Rage successfully with precise 
synthesizer on “King of the World” (again 
by Fagen). “Your Gold Teeth” proves con­
clusively that the group is unified enough 
to depart from their standard guitar lead 
format without falling apart.
In comparison to “Thrill,” “Count­
down” is not a record without its flaws.
The lyrics often pass from the metaphor­
ical to the absurd, as on “Gold Teeth.” 
“Bodhisattva,” which could once get me 
dancing at five in the morning, now bores 
me. It sounds, probably unintentionally, 
like Steely Dan’s “Your Mama Don’t 
Dance” or “Boogie Woodie Bugle Boy.” 
‘^Pearl of the Harbor,” though sweet, fails 
as a ballad.
Still, these problems can be counted as 
“growing pains” on an album that ac­
curately diagrams the group’s current im- 
provisational direction. No melodiousness 
is sacrificed. Also, the album’s design is 
infinitely better than its predecessor’s, with 
a cover that suggests a National Lampoon 
fantasy of pornography of the future.
Steely Dan has provided the best music 
of the year. All signs indicate that my 
turntable will be seeing even more of them 
in the future.
Also Recommended:
“Innervisions” Stevie Wonder continues 
to expand his unique definition of what 
soul music can be. His production job is, 
once again, top notch, nearing perfection 
on “Golden Lady.”
“0 Lucky Man” We can thank Alan 
Price for the best original soundtrack al­
bum in years. It feeds the film with songs 
that move and often haunt. Tremendous 
Randy Newman influence apparent.
“Deodato 2” “Rhapsody in Blue” is ob­
viously a rehash bf the same concept as 
“Also Sprach Zarathustra,” but once you 
hear it, all is forgiven.
HEINZ HAL!. FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL -
An evening with
NORMAN 
MAILER
HEINZ HALL
¡J ÍÍ3S91
Sunday, Oct. 21 at 7:30
The controversial prize-winning journalist, mayoral candidate 
(New York City) in 1969, and the author of Marilyn, a “novel 
biography" of Marilyn Monroe.
Tickets: *5", *4‘% *3"
at the Heinz Hall Box Office, Gimbeis, Horne's, Kaofminn's and 
the Pitt Student Union...
10% discount to students and senior citizens with IDs at the 
Box Office. , .
Discounts to groups ot 20 or more. Phone 281-8185 for more 
information.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL
0»
Ê:
Hr/W/A

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 16, 1973-Page 13
/port/
Tartans
Swamp
Gators
Tartans' John Radie is finally dragged down.Photo by Courtney Larsen
Cross Country 
Picture Brightens
by Jim Litsas
The CMU Tartans shut out the 
Allegheny Gators at Tech •, Field on 
Saturday by a score of 10-0. In what 
turned out to be a battle of defenses, the 
Tartans came out on top, looking like a 
winning team.
It was beautiful football weather when 
the game began, and a good crowd came 
out to watch the exciting upset. The 
Tartans put on a fine show for their first 
home game of the season, and Tartan fans 
had an enjoyable afternoon. The Gators 
certainly didn’t appreciate the upset, which 
gave them their first PAC loss and knocked 
them out of a first place tie with Thiel. The 
Tartans showed that they, too, will be 
strong contenders for the conference 
crown.
The Tartans received the opening kick- 
off, but couldn’t do much with the ball 
just then. The Gators took over the offense 
and put something of a drive together to 
reach the CMU 30 yard line, whete they 
were forced to turn the ball over to the 
Tartans. The Gators never reached that line 
again until the last quarter of the game. 
Some time later, the Tartans got one of 
their many big breaks of the game when 
Allegheny fumbled a punt reception and 
Mike Bralkowski, one of the Tartan co­
captains, giabbed the ball just before it 
went out of bounds. The Gator defense, 
which was the best in the PAC last year, 
allowing an average of only 168.3 yards per 
game, forced the following drive to end 
without a Tartan score. Ted Harhai made a 
beautiful punt which went out of bounds 
at the Gator 6. Allegheny took over with 
their backs to the wall, as they would time 
and time again in the game.
The next time the Gators punted, the 
Tartans got the ball on the 34 yard line, 
with good field position to start the drive 
that would end with the only touchdown 
of the game. The Tartans had a bad break 
when Nick Redondo, their big Freshman 
center, was injured on the field (he re­
entered the game later). But Bob Amber 
came in to replace Redondo and did the 
job. The ‘73 Tartans are a versatile team, 
with two fine quarterbacks that switch off 
from play to play, and many able players 
that can come off the bench to do the job 
in a clutch situation.
On what was one of the most impressive 
plays ot the game, John Radic threw a pass 
on a halfback option to Brad Punko, who 
was sandwiched between two defenders. 
Brad made a beautiful grab which brought 
the ball to the 2 yard line. Two plays later, 
Radic climbed into the endzone for the 
TD. McMeekin then took off his shoe and 
sock to kick the point after touchdown.
Allegheny tried to put together a couple 
of drives before the half ran out, but the 
Tartan defense came up with the big plays 
to cut the Gators short. The half ended
with the Tartans ahead 7-0. CMU used to 
have a marching band until a couple of 
years ago, and the lack of halftime 
entertainment was felt.
Allegheny received the second half kick- 
off, and the Gators scrambling quarter­
back, Robyn Small, who led the PAC in all 
passing departments last year, tried to get 
the offense moving. The Tartan defense, 
however, continued to contain the Gators. 
Allegheny’s defense was just as containing, 
and possession of the ball see-sawed 
between the two teams until the 4th 
quarter.
The Tartans began to move from their 
own 20 for their next score. The offensive 
line opened a hole, and John Radic slipped 
right through the middle to carry the ball 
16 yeards. Later, a well executed screen 
pass to Brad Punko, a couple of nice plays 
by Bob Curtis and Brian Carlock gave the 
Tartans 5 first downs, and brought them to 
the Gator 20. Tom McMeeking took off his 
shoe and sock and kicked a soccer style 
field goal that just barely came inside the 
uprights and it was all over for Allegheny. 
The Gators had to go for the long play, and 
the Tartan defense was there waiting. No 
one cared that CMU didn’t put together 
another offensive drive, because the game 
was won.
The only real statistical difference 
between Saturday’s game and the loss to 
Bethany was the lack of big mistakes, for 
example 4 intereceptions and 6 fumbles. 
John Radic led the team rushing with 51 
yards. Brad Punko caught 4 passes for 63 
yards including the 33 yard reception that 
set up the Tartan touchdown. Bob Curtis 
caught 3 for 27 yards, and Brian Carlock 
pulled in 3 for 33, tying the CMU career 
record of 130 receptions set by Dick Bell. 
Allegheny’s well balanced rushing offense 
gained an impressive 196 yards led by John 
Vernillo. Ron Shinault pulled in two very 
key interceptions, the last one cutting off 
the Gators at their deepest penetration at 
the CMU 25. Shinault returned this inter­
ception for 51 big yards. Curt Simmons 
also picked off a Gator pass late in the 
game. The Gators lost each of their 3 
fumbles.
There was a total of 17 punts in the 
game, indicating the frequent turnovers 
caused by the outstanding defensive play 
of both teams. Whereas the Ally Gators 
caused the Tartans to punt 10 times, Ted 
Harhai’s punts were excellent and the 
Gators frequently had to put the ball in 
play deep in their own territory. When 
Allegheny’s offense did start to move, the 
Tartan’s defense cut in with big plays. All 
in alL the Tartans played a well-rounded 
ballgame that left CMU fans happy and 
satisfied.
It began to rain just as the game ended, 
and Tartan fans rushed for shelter. The 
Gators had to drive back to Meadville in 
the rain, and when they reached home, 
they were all wet.
by Ken Kloes
The Westminster Titans handed the 
cross-country team its third loss last Mon­
day, edging the Tartans 26-30 at West­
minster. Ken Kloes was the individual 
winner in a course record time of 21:27 for 
the 4.3 mile route. Greg Dewey finished 
third for the Tartans, followed by Tony 
McKay, sixth; Greg Hyatt, ninth; and Ray 
Smith, eleventh. Dewey, McKay, and Kloes 
held the first three places as far as the 2V4 
mile mark, but the Titans proved to have 
more depth than the CMU runners.
Saturday, however, the Tartans evened 
their overall record at 3-3 and brought 
their PAC record to 2-1 with a win over 
John Carroll University. The team showed 
definite signs of improving their grouping, 
which has so far been a weak point, in the 
26-31 victory. Kloes finished first in the 
race with McKay, who “ran an outstanding 
race” according to coach Gary Meckley, in 
second. Dewey placed fourth, and Hyatt 
was seyenth. Fred Carlson, a new freshman 
runner added to the team last week, 
finished twelth to complete CMU’s scoring.
The next meet is Saturday at 
Washington and Jefferson.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October? 23, 1973/port/ SPORTS LIBERATED
Carroll Streaks 
Past G-MU
by Mary Jo Chabala
The women’s field hockey team
suffered two defeats during the past week. 
C-MU lost to Bethany on Tuesday, October 
9, by a 6-0 score. This game proved to be a 
very physical one. The Bethany team
played an extremely rough game with the 
C-MU women very disappointed about 
Bethany’s showing.
On Saturday, October 13, the field 
hockey team lost to the Pittsburgh Field 
Hockey Association, 3r0. This was only a 
practice game, but the C-MU women
learned a great deal from the members of
the PFHA.
The women’s tennis team met with a
disappointing defeat on Wednesday, 
October 10 as Indiana won the match 4-3. 
On Thursday, October 11 C-MU was ahead 
of Chatham 3-1 when the match was 
postponed due to darkness. It will ber 
finished at a later date. Two victories may 
be added to C-MU’s tennis record as they 
shut out Geneva 5-0 on Friday, October 12 
and trounced Pennsylvania State University 
(Fayette Campus) 8-2 on Monday, October 
15.
The following scores have resulted from 
women’s intramural volleyball during the 
past week: f
EZBO’ over Cleo and the Anchor Asses: 
’5-6, 12-15, 15-0.
EZBO’ over Dawgs; 15-2, 15-13.
Black Magic over Cleo and the Anchor 
Asses; 15-2, 15-3.
W&J Trampled 
By Tartans, 15-44
Greg Dewey and Ken Kloes crossed the 
finish line together to pace the Tartans to 
their 15-44 demolition of Washington and 
Jefferson at Washington Park Saturday. 
Tony McKay, Greg Hyatt, and Fred 
Carlson finished third, fourth, and fifth to 
round the Tartan placement.
Coach Meckley’s harriers have two more 
meets, against Bethany and Allegheny- 
Hiram, before the PAC championships, 
where the Tartans feel they have a good 
chance of dethroning Case. The Tartans 
run against Bethany, whom they have 
already defeated, this Tuesday.
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
FACULTY - STUDENT SABBATH at 
Chatham College Chapel Lounge 
Friday, October 26
Worship at 7:30 p.m. followed by Speaker, discussion and refreshments 
Speaker: Marjorie Weinhold 
Topic: Ethics in Language 
CMU BAGEL AND LOX BRUNCH 
Sunday, October 28, 11 a.m.
Skibo Faculty Dining Room 
Speaker: Professor Joel Tarr, C-MU
Topic: Ethnic and Racial Confrontation in the American City 
Cost: $1.00
JEWISH PHILOSOPHY SERIES - every Sunday 
7:30 p.m. Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor 
Sunday, October 28
Speaker: Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director, B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
Topic: The Biblical Talmudic View of Man 
LUNCH AND LECTURE SERIES -"Perspectives on the Jews of Eastern Europe"
Monday, October 29, Noon, last lecture
Speaker: Dr. Jerome Rosenberg, University of Pittsburgh
Topic: The Contemporary Russian Scene
„ . u *-»C 315 S. Belief ield Avenue - 621-8875Cost for lunch: $.75 __________________
Program on Human Sexuality 1973/1974 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Birth Control and Abortion
October 24 
Cathlyn Gable, Associate Director 
Planned Parenthood Center of Pittsburgh 
Leonard Laufe.M.D., 
Chief of Obstetrics & Gynecology 
West Penn Hospital 
All lectures scheduled for Wednesday evenings, Breed Memorial Hall 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, at 8 p.m.
’Open to men and women’
by Jeff Englund
The Taitan football squad, badly out­
classed by John Carroll's running attack 
and unable to launch a scoring drive of 
their own. fell 20-7 to the Blue Streaks in 
Cleveland last Saturday.
Bob Curtis scored the only Tartan 
touchdown on a 92-yard kickoff runback. 
Tom McMeekin's extra point gave the 
Tartans a short-lived lead, but Carroll soon 
added two touchdowns to clinch the 
victory.
The home team dominated offensively, 
picking up 24 first downs to the Tartans' 7 
and rushing for 431 yards against only 55
for C-MU. Passing yardage honors went to 
the Tartans, 86 to 62, as did completion 
percentage. .650 to .429. Quarterback Jay 
Duquette is above the .600 mark in this 
statistic for the season.
Ted Harhai, who has done a 
commendable punting job thus far for 
C-MU. averaged a stellar 43.4 yards on 11 
punts. He is among the PAC leaders.
John Carrol remains undefeated and 
tied for the conference lead with Thiel, 
who bested Bethany College over the 
weekend. Carnegie-Mellon drops to 1-2 in 
PAC competition, with a .500 overall 
record. Next Saturday they return to 
Cleveland, this time to face winless Case.
Streyle, Koblin Pace 
Soccer Victory, 5—1
by Mark Schiffman thifc year. Assists for the Tartans are given
to Russell and Streyle. W&J scored their
• only goal early in the first half.
A1 Koblin scored a hat trick for the The win raises the Tartans’ record to 5-0 
Tartans in a 5-1 romp over Washington and in PAC Conference play and 5-2 overall. 
Jefferson on Thursday. Also scoring for Their next game will be played next 
C-MU were Streyle and freshman Doug Tuesday at Bethany, which may be the 
Harrigan. The goal by Harrigan was his first game to decide the PAC Conference title.
Photo by John Rose

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN Tuesday, OefobVr £3, 1073-Page 15
Tennis Team Takes 
3 Out Of 5
by Leslie Allen
October 3, C-MU women’s tennis team 
traveled to Indiana University of Penn­
sylvania, playing four singles and two 
doubles matches. C-MU lost all but one 
match; their only victory coming when 
Leslie Allen came back after losing the first 
set 9-7 to win the next two sets 6-2,6-1.
When Indiana came to C-MU on 
October 10, C-MU again suffered defeat, 
this time by a one match margin, 3-4. 
Indiana’s victory was held off until they 
won the last match in the third set. Captain 
Elly Zimmerman, Cliffeton Greene, and 
the third doubles team were C-MU’s 
winners.
After suffering two defeats, C-MU’s 
women netters got back on their feet. They 
traveled to Chatham College on October
11, playing three singles matches and two 
doubles. C-MU defeated Chatham for the 
first time since coach Jane Fisk has been at 
C-MU. Elly Zimmerman and Cliffeton 
Greene won their singles matches, Marya 
Piasecki playing with Nancy Pearlman won 
the first doubles. The second doubles 
match was halted because of darkness with 
C-MU’s Nancy Bing and Susy Duffy 
trailing, having lost the first set 7-6 and 
being tied 3-3 in the second set. This match 
will be finished on a later date. Leslie Allen 
lost in close struggles, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.
MED
PROBLEMS?
EuroMed may oiler RK Kiaoverseas training
For the session starting Fall, 1974, 
the European Medical Students 
Placement Service, Inc. will assist 
qualified American students in 
gaining admission to recognized 
overseas medical schools.
And that’s just the beginning.
Since the language barrier constitutes 
the preponderate difficulty in succeed­
ing at a foreign school, the Euromed 
program also includes an intensive 
12 week medical and conversational 
language course, mandatory for all 
students. Five hours daily, the course 
is given in the country where the stu­
dent will attend medical school.
In addition, the European Medical 
Students Placement Service provides 
students with a 12 week intensive 
cultural orientation course, with Amer­
ican students now studying medicine 
in that particular country serving as 
counselors.
Senior or graduate students currently 
enrolled in an American university are 
eligible to participate in the Euromed 
program.
For application and further 
information, phone toll free, 
(800) 645-1234
or write,
EUROPEAN MEDICAL ' 
Students Placement Service, Inc. 
170 Did Country l)oad 
Mineoia. N Y. 11501
Geneva College fell victims of C-MU 
women netters as C-MU shut them out 5-0. 
In singles, Leslie Allen won 6-2, 6-0, Elly 
Zimmerman won 6-1, 6-0, Cliffeton Greene 
won 6-0, 6-0. First doubles team struggled 
back after losing first set in the ninth point 
of a nine point tie breaker, 7-6, to win the 
second set, 7-5, and the third set 6-2. 
Second doubles Celera Munkerbeck and 
Nancy Lyons won 6-2, 6-1.
Inexperienced Penn State (Fayette) came 
to C-MU Monday, October 15. C-MU easily 
defeated them 9-1 without the help of 
their numbers 1 and 2 singles players. 
C-MU won six singles and three doubles 
matches.
This last victory extends C-MU’s women 
netters record to four wins and two losses. 
With two matches left, the team plans to 
extend their record to six wins and two 
losses.
IM News
by Mike Pochan
The Co-Rec Volleyball season came to 
an .end as Beta “A” team defeated SAE 
“A” in two straight games, 15-11 and 15-9. 
Playing for Beta were Stu Cedrone, John 
Rollins, Jeff Grube, Stan Smith, Jay Groff, 
Cliffeton Greene, Nancy Perlman, Dori 
Feuss, Sally Dittman, Ellie Zimmerman 
and Ann Kramer. Beta defeated SAE “B” 
and Peer Help to reach the finals and take 
the title for the second year in a row.
In intramural golf, the M.B.’s triumphed 
over F.U.B.A.R. by a final score of 
227-231.
Computer Science walked off with the 
intramural team tennis trophy, as they 
defeated Scrow in the finals.
Pika 
Slices
n
by Mike Pochan
In a classic confrontation, PIKA ground 
out a victory over Beta Theta Pi, 21-13. 
The game saw excellent passing on the part 
of both quarterbacks and spectacular plays 
by the defensive backfields. Beta opened 
the game with John Lankford running back 
the opening kickoff for a touchdown. 
PIKA QB Steve Rouch ran for two TD’s, 
the second being set up on a key pass to 
Don Treleaven. Beta rolled back on key 
passes to Jim Brogan, but the drive was 
broken up on an interception by Vic 
Rogers. An interception by Beta’s Dave 
Cacciamani killed the PIKA return drive, 
and John Rollins hauled in a pass for a BTP 
touchdown. Rouch moved PIKA again and 
passed to Doug Doxsey for the final 
touchdown of the game.
SAE had no trouble with the P.K.Tators 
as they won by a score of 31-14. Pat 
Wallace caught two touchdown passes, Don 
Van Ollefen One, and Ted Stem ran back 
an interception.
In intermediate action, the Purple 
Gnurples edged the Oakland Dolphins, 
19-18, to go into a tie for first place in the 
Western Division. Ray Evangelista hit Dave 
List for two touchdowns for the winners, 
while Howie Zelick and Lee Patch three 
times broke up touchdown passes in the 
endzone. f- u
ATTENTION!
The annual intramural cross country run 
will be held Thursday, October 25 at 4:30 
p.m. The run will be held on the Schenley 
Park course; a map of the course is posted 
on the I.M. board in the gymnasium.
ooCOMPUTERIZED 
DATING
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. 
FOR FREE BROCHURE,
WRITS
DATAMATIC 
P. O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213
FREE Octtobt
WITH PURCHASE
er1ostudent-DISCOUNT
tues -s/in ir. 30 —5:30 
2-09ti.Cffl/6 ST • 667-7972. 
ite. 4-rie.rvcüy ¿Am Shop*
is owner-operated by 
MR. MOTHER, RON PELINO 
a concerned parent!
IF YOU THINK "mother" means 
"mother" . . .you're not invited.
Dough Made Fresh Daily
WE DELIVER
CENTRE AT CRAIG 621-6755
RURAL LANDSCAPES 
DUSTY TOWNS 
MURKY SALOONS 
PICKUP TRUCKS 
FREIGHT TRAINS 
BUTCHER HOLLOW 
FA T MESSER'S MOONSHINE 
&
Tunes about them at a big evening of
Southern Music
Don Gibson, Skeeter Davis, Barbara 
Mandrell, Country Cavaleers and the Old 
South man himself. Bill Currie
Friday, October 26, 8:00 p.m. Syria Mosque. 
Tickets at Skibo and all National Record 
Marts: $5.00; $4.75; $3.75
By New Directions Productions, Inc.
I.M. FOOTBALL STANDINGS 
Major
National
All-Stars
PIKA
SAE
Black Magic
Wild Bunch 
Beta
P.K.Tators 
Grade A
American
Intermediate
East
Scrow 
Gripes 
Civ. Eng.
Kappa Sig 
ATO
Red Riders “A’
TDP
Big Red
Purple Gnurples
O. Dolphins 
Sigma Nu 
PKA“B” 
McGilldoes 
Red Death 
Red Riders “B” 
DTD
Shakers Beer
Bearded Clams
PKT
PLP
Azzzoles
West
Minors
W-L
6-0
5-1
3-4-
0-5
WL
4-1
3-3
1-5
1-4
W-L
5-1
5-1
5-1
4-2
3-4
2-4
0-5
0-5
W-L
6-1
6-1
5-2
3-3
3-3
2-4
1-5
1-5
1-6
W-L
5-0
4-1
1-4
0-5
COPY CAT
XEROX COPY CENTER 
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL 
4415 FIFTH AVE. 
683-8040
Our Low Copy Prices Are:
1 thru 15 5cents/copy 
16 thru 100 3cents/copy 
101 and up 2cents/copy 
WE ALSO DO TYPING 
Reports, term papers, thesis, 
desertations.
65 cents per page - double spaced 
$1.25 per page - single spaced
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send for your up-to-date, 160-page, 
mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 
to cover postage (delivery time is 
1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 
(213)477-8474 or 477 5493
Our research material is sold for 
research assistance only.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TART AN—T uesday, October 16, 1973
VI.
V
FRANK ZAPPA
and
THE MOTHERS OF INVENTION
In Concert
Sat. Nov. 3rd
7:00,10:00 p.m. 
Carnegie-Mellon Gym
$3.50 with all college I.D.
$4.50 without 
All Tickets $4.50 at the door
Tickets at:
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
Sponsored by the C-MU Activities Board
SPIRIT PRESENTS
EXTRAVAGANZA II
Third Annual Fashion Show
for the
WEST AFRICAN 
FIVEYEAR DROUGHT 
VICTIMS
Sunday October 21
2:00-5:00 
$1.50 per College ID
C-MU Skibo Ballroom 
$2.00 general
