Vol. VIII. No. 26No.26,16 924L1LaL6 st T6hu2srs,dy e1LL4va.,uy e6224drno21oApril 2, 1914
MANY INTRANTS IN PRESS MEET
KING, CAMPBELL AS» RAUN SCORE POINTS (OR (ARNKIE
BEN GREET WAT­
ERS A SUCtESS
FIRST PUBLIC APEARANCE OF 
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA.
Last Thursday evening marked a 
new epoch in drama and music when 
the Ben Greet Players presented “A 
Midsummer’s Night Dream,” accom­
panied by the Carnegie Symphony 
Orchestra. This was the first time 
an educational institution has assisted 
its students with the practical work 
of presentation, and the first time 
that any institution in the United 
States has had its own symphony or­
chestra to appear in public.
The plays were given under the 
auspices of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology for the express purpose 
of enabling the students to see en­
acted what they have been studying. 
The proceeds of the performances 
will be devoted to a scholarship in 
the department of drama in the School 
of Applied Design.
The Ben Greet Players were estao- 
lished in 1887 in England. They are 
known the world over for their pro­
duction of plays dating from the 
Fifteenth century to present time. 
The Players have given performances 
before every college and university 
in this country as well as England 
and Canada. The production of over 
five thousand performances gives 
them experience which has rendered 
them the foremost company of its 
kind.
The Symphony Orchestra of the 
Design School is to be congratulated 
upon its success of its first appear­
ance.. The orchestra is composed of 
about fifty or more members, lead by 
J. Vick O’Brien. The numbers below 
were given:
Overture—“A Mid Summer’s Night
Dream” ....................... Mendohlssohn
Intermezzo—“A Mid Summer’s
Night Dream” ..........Mendohlssohn
Nocturne—“A Mid Summer’s Night
Dream” ................... Mendohlssohn
Spring Song “A Mid Summer’s
Night Dream” ..........Mendohlssohn
March—“A Mid Summer’s Night
Dream” ..................... Mendohlssc hn
George Vivian as Pink and Ben 
Greet as Bottom, were especially well 
received. Viola Knox as Hermia, 
Daughter to Egens, in love with Lys- 
ander; Elsie Herndow Kearns as 
Helena, in love with Demetrius; Ruth 
Vivian as Titania, Queen of the Fair­
ies, and Bertha Cozens as Hippsolyta, 
Queen of the Amayous, played well 
Continued on Page 4
Among the thousand and one en­
trants in the Press meet last Satur­
day, were several hundred runners 
and a few jumpers who competed in 
the open events. In the majority of 
these, the abilities of the contestants 
were so varied that hanicaps were 
assigned. Of the events open to all 
comers, Carnegie was represented in 
three of them and points were scored 
by the Plaid athletes in every contest 
they entered.
In the 60-yard dash handicap, ten 
trial and two semi-fianl heats had to 
be run before the finals were reached. 
In the preliminary races, Tech’s three 
entires, Vierheller with a handicap of 
ten feet, Rauh with 6 feet, and Hem- 
mann with 5 feet, survived the initial 
test, the first two winning and the 
last finishing second in their respec­
tive heats. In the semi-finals, Vier­
heller and Hemmann were eliminated, 
while Rauh running second in his 
heat, qualified for the finals Hem- 
mann’s chances dwindled when he was 
unjustly penalized for attempting to 
“beat the gun.”" In the last sprint, 
Carroll the Indiana Normal star and 
A. A. U. record holder for the dis­
tance, again demonstrated his ability 
by winning in the fast time oi :06 2-5 
seconds, Deating out Rauh who fin­
ished second, by three or four yards.
Coach Dull refused to allow his 
men to enter the one-lap race in order 
to avoid any injury that might result 
from the undue crowding and shov­
ing at the turns.
The one-mile run brought out a 
mass of manly one hundred runners 
who were awarded handicaps of from 
eighty to twenty-five yards against 
two scratch men, one of whom was 
Haselton.* Those in the rear literally 
had to wade through the other run­
ners to get near the front. After the 
first lap, there was a continuous pro­
cession past the starting aand finish­
ing line, and the judges had such dif­
ficulty in counting the laps that, in 
the opinion of the Tartan representa­
tive who was on the line at the time, 
the designated winner had one lap yet 
to run and Campbell of Tech, who 
was given third place, finished second 
if not first. Although the winner had 
a handicap of sixty yards, the time
of 4:40 was remarkably fast. Hasel­
ton ran a good race but he fell while 
rounding a turn near the half mile 
mark and lost enough ground to pre­
vent his taking a place.
The high jump was a repitition of 
the same old story. King of Tech, 
and Murphy of P. A. A., tied at 5 
feet 11 inches. But this time they 
only secured second place. Scott, un­
attended, was credited with 5 feet 11 
inches after having his handicap of 3 
inches added to his actual jump. King 
and Murphy both cleared the bar at
5 feet 10 inches but neither could go 
higher. Then for the second time in 
a week, King proceeded to win the 
toss for the medal from his persist­
ent and unfortunate opponent. Wright 
and Vierheller with handicaps of 6 
inches, both jumped 5 feet 4 inches 
and tied for fourth place.
Williams of the Design School, 
competing for East Liberty Y. M.
C. A., finished second in the one-mile 
walk after a strenuous last lap in 
which he outdistanced Leslie of Pea­
body High School.
The results of the open events were 
as follows: 60-yard dash, open, handi­
cap—won by Carroll, Indiana Normal 
(scratch); second, Rauh, Carnegie 
Tech (6 feet); third, Smith, Monticello
A. C. (7 feet). Time, :06 2-5.
Eight lap relay race, open, handi­
cap—won by P. A. A. first team;; sec^ 
ond Fifth Avenue High School; third, 
Westinghouse Club. Time, 2:52.
One lap race, open—Won by Can­
field, Westinghouse Club; second, P. 
Surrenda, National Tube Co.; third, 
Williamson, Pitt. Time, :20 4-5.
One mile run, open, handicap—Won 
by Irwin, Homestead Steel Works (60 
yards); second, Stonerod, unattached 
(35 yards); third, Campbell, Carnegie 
Tech (25 yards). Time, 4:40.
One mile walk, handicap—Won by 
Ewing, P. A. A. (scratch); second, 
Williams, E. L. Y. M. C. A. (36 sec­
onds); third, Leslie, Peabody H. S. 
35 seconds). Time, 6:54.
Running high jump, open, handicap 
—Won by Scott, unattached (3 inch­
es); second, King, Carnegie Tech 
(scratch) and Murphy, P. A. A. 
(scratch) tied. Height, 5 feet 11 
inches.
STAG DANCE Silt 
(ESSEUL INSTITUTION
LARGER ATTENDANCE THAN 
BEFORE.
At the second Stag Dance held in 
Machinery Hall last Saturday even­
ing, the increased attendance and 
splendid time enjoyed by all proved 
that stag affairs at Carnegie are to be 
a successful institution. Last time a 
good many came out of curiosity; 
but now that such a number, about 
one hundred and seventy-five came 
knowing the nature of the affair, the 
popularity of the scheme is evident.
The success of the affair was due 
to the work of three committees, the 
Ways and Means Committee of the 
Ladies of the Faculty, the Committee 
on Refreshments, also of the Ladies, 
and the Student Committee in charge.
The general supervision and ar­
rangements was the work of the first 
committee, with Mrs. Leete as chair­
man, and Mrs. Crabtree, Mrs. Keller, 
Mrs. HOwer, and Mrs. Stanton as 
members.
The second committee; of which 
Mrs. Doyle was chairman, and Mrs. 
Thayer, Mrs. McCorkle, Mrs. Stevens, 
and Mrs. Riggs, members, took charge 
of the refreshments, provided the 
flowers used in marking classes, and 
also supplied the candy. The inter­
est and aid given by this committee 
did much to make the evening such 
a success.
Last, but not least, the student 
committee of Fulmer, Ziezenheim, G.
B. Baker and Kerin maintained order, 
arranged entertainment and handled 
the finances in a praiseworthy way. 
This committee had arranged to ac­
commodate a larger crowd than that 
present; but the chief result of this 
was a second go at the eats near the 
end of the evening, when everybody 
filled up.
The music of the evening, provided 
by the Ways and Means Committee, 
was furnished by home talent in the 
persons of Mrs. Crabtree at the piano, 
and Professor Crabtree, Professor 
Howarth, and Mr. Saunders with 
violins. When this quartet started 
nobody could keep still. Later in the 
evening Savage at the piano, and Gay- 
nor, in the Drama School of the De­
sign school, spelled the musicians.
Although more were present than 
before, especially of the Plebes, 
not so many of the faculty were there. 
However, Mrs. Hammerschlag arrived 
to spend the latter part of the evening;
Continued on Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2Œil* Œarîatt
Vol. (Sartmt
Published weekly by Undergradu­
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN­
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
-.he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, ’14..Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14-----Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, ’16..............News Editor
C. B. Kline........................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, '14...M. M. C. S. Editor
A. H. McGill, ’14.............Science Editor
H. L. Heilman, ’16...Design Editor 
J. M. Parke, ’14. ... Industries Editor 
Wm. M. Sheldon, ’15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, ’14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, ’15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, ’15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, ’16...................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, ’16.....................Reporter
PITTSBURGH, PA., APRIL 2, 1914
SUGGESTED—A TRAINING 
HOUSE.
Carnegie Tech is hampered in many 
ways by the lack of centralized dormi­
tories. The students, even those from 
out of town, are scattered in living 
quarters over the greater part of a 
large city. Even the fraternity and 
club houses are distributed through 
a district that would make a fair-sized 
town. Consequently, outside of school 
the students are practically strangers 
to each other and remain so during 
their entire course. Naturally, the 
greatest disadvantage is the lack of 
social life, but other features are al­
most as much to be deplored.
One of these is the impossibility 
of the meeting of the members of 
the athletic teams away from the 
class rooms and the athletic field. The 
football players are out of touch with 
their coach and their team-mates from 
the close of one practice until the 
beginning of another. One player 
may never see another who plays be­
side him save on the field. He has 
not time to become really acquainted, 
to gain that confidence in his fellow 
that comes from intimate contact, un­
til late in the season, and that lack 
of confidence holds back the develop­
ment of the team machinery.
The training table, established last 
Fall, proved of incalculable value in 
providing a limited opportunity for 
just this social contact, although its 
main purpose of insuring wholesome 
food for the athletes made it worth 
its cost. Why could not the idea be 
carried one step farther? Why not 
establish a training house in which 
the members of the Varsity football 
team could live from the opening of
school until the close of their season? 
in which the track and cross-country 
men could be housed during their ac­
tivities, and the baseball squad dwell 
in the Spring?
We could name any number of ad­
vantages that such a house would 
bring to the athletic teams and to 
their members, as, for instance, en­
forcement of training rules, chart talk1* 
by the coach, opportunities for tne 
faculty or upper classmen to tutor 
the men, giving that help that may 
keep a man on the team at exam 
time, increased inducement to study 
with decreased distractions, and so 
on "ad infinitum.”
The chief objection to be raised 
will doubtless be expressed in the 
question, “How is the house to be sup­
ported?” Each man on the team pays 
board wherever he lives. In such a 
house, board could be provided at 
such rates as to provide some induce­
ment for him to take up his abode 
there. Just as each man paid a reas­
onable amount for his meals at the 
training table last Fall, so the greater 
burden of the expense could be borne 
by the men themselves. For the fur­
nishing of the house and any excess 
charges of maintenance, some method 
could be provided by the student body 
at large for raising a fund that would 
cover all necessities.
We are starting a new football pol­
icy this year. A new coach has been 
engaged to teach a new style of game. 
The students have voted to endorse 
such football or other athletics as 
shall bring credit to the Institute. 
Does their responsibility end with the 
mere saying that we want better 
teams, or are they willing to give 
something tangible to the support of 
their idea? It has been suggested that 
if each student in school this year 
would produce something “tangible” 
in the form of a dollar, that a train­
ing house would become a fact.
We have good reason to suppose 
that the Alumni Associations woulct 
help such a proposition along to tlie 
extent of several hundred dollars, if 
it were proved that the student body 
were ready to stand back of the idea. 
We believe that the Faculty will glad­
ly support the same idea if the stud­
ents really desire it.
And as the matter lies before each 
individual students in the Institute. 
The suggestion of a training house is 
thrown forward merely as a sugges­
tion. Don’t say that you favor the 
idea unless you can produce some­
thing to support your word. If you 
have an idea to exchange for ours, 
let us hear it. Suggestions are solic­
ited, but subscriptions are not—yet.
C.B.
CHOOSING A COURSE IN 
ENGINEERING.
The time for the Plebe to choose 
his course in engineering is almost 
here. This is one of the important 
decisions that a man has to make for 
himself. Some may have entered our 
Institution in the fall without any 
definite course in view. Many have 
already decided upon the course; oth­
ers are reconsidering original plans.
In no way can one get a better idea 
of the opportunities presented by the 
various courses than from the Dulle- 
Choice of a Course in Engineering.” 
Each Plebe, whether he has already 
made a definite choice or not, should 
read this book thoroughly. Now is 
the time for a fellow to correct his 
mistake, if he made one, in coming to 
a technical school. It is the time for 
him to choose wisely, because the se­
lection he makes now will condition 
his life’s work.
Therefore, the Plebe should give 
this choice great consideration. He 
should talk with the heads of the de­
partments if necessary. But he should 
choose his course with his eyes open.
W.H.S.
CRICKET.
(Editorial Note: We have recently 
received the following letter, and are 
glad to pUDiish the same.)
Editor of the Tartan:
With the coming of Spring the 
thoughts of the students naturally 
turn to outdoor games and the pros­
pects opening out before the baseball 
team form one of the principal and 
most weighty topics of conversation 
outside the classroom.
But apart from this great national 
game other manly sports engage the 
time and energy of many of them. 
Tennis holds its sway and we hope 
that this year Carnegie Tech may 
rival other colleges in the country at 
the game of cricket. With the world 
tour of the finest baseball teams fol­
lowing the visit of the Australian 
cricket team to this country, the pros 
and cons of the two great National 
Summer pastimes have been brought 
before the two great English speaking 
nations. Rather than entering into a 
lengthy explanation of the game it is 
thought preferable in this article to 
urge the few who know it, either 
through having played it in Great 
Britain, her colonies, or in this coun­
try, to band together and take up the 
matter with the authorities, demon­
strating that sufficient interest is be­
ing shown, and that the devotees are 
numerous enough to guarantee the 
formation of a section in the athletic 
activities of the college .which will do 
honor to the name of Carnegie Tech, 
broaden even more her open and ex­
tensive ideas and justify its existence 
by holding its own against all local 
rivals.
With this end in view it therefore 
behooves all students in both day and 
night classes who are at all interested 
in the game to get together, and that 
right quickly.
Cricket is much less strenuous than 
baseball, it is less of an exact science, 
it is played by children and old as 
well as young men, although, of 
course, the best players are ages be­
tween 18 and 40. The duration of a 
game is as a rule larger than that of 
a game at baseball and although in 
some ways resembling the American 
game and comparable to it, it is es­
sentially different and there is un­
doubtedly room for the two games 
without the one in any way detract­
ing from the other.
The game is played between two 
teams, each consisting of eleven play­
ers and these teams once entering the 
field cannot be changed. Two sets of 
wickets, each consisting of three up­
right sticks with “bails” placed across 
the space between on top. The wick­
ets are placed 22 yards apart on a 
perfect level piece of turf. A bowler 
or pitcher bowls the ball from one 
set of wickets with the intention of 
hitting the other set which the bats­
man defends with his bat. The bowl­
er must not bend his elbow in de­
livering the ball, i. e., he cannot throw. 
The eleven men are placed in posi­
tions all round the wickets in order 
to catch any ball knocked up by the 
batsman. After six balls have been 
bowled from one end to the other, the 
umpire calls “over” and six balls are 
then bowled to another batsman at 
the other end by another bowler. If 
a batsman hits a ball so that he thinks 
the batsman can run between the 
wickets before the ball can be thrown 
to hit either set of wickets, the bats­
men run, exchanging places. As 
many of these “runs” as possible are 
made off each hit, but it is not neces­
sary to make a run off a hit. The 
game is won by the side making the 
most runs. A batsman is out: (1) 
if the bowler hits his wicket, (2) if 
he is caught by one of the fielders in 
any position from hit, (3) if the wick­
ets are hit with the ball while he is 
running between them. An innings 
is completed and a side is out when 
all batsmen have been to the wicket. 
One batsman is left “not out” at the 
end when the side retires. Should 
the captain desire to close the innings 
at any time before the side is “all 
out” he is at liberty to do so. When 
one side is “out” the next side goes 
in. In half day games such as Sat­
urday afternoon games, only one in­
nings each is as a rule played, but in 
the big games for which whole days 
are given, two innings are played by 
each side. This is a very brief de­
scription of the game as it is hoped 
that Carnegie Tech teams will soon 
be seen playing and practicing in 
Schenley Park, the fine points will 
soon become apparent and the beau­
ties of the game which have endeared 
it to the hearts of Britishers as base­
ball to Americans will be appreciated. 
The many comparisons between the 
two games which have appeared re­
cently in American and British news­
papers and the more general interest 
taken in both games on both sides of 
the Atlantic, make it desirable that 
after 100 years of peace between the 
two countries everything -enhancing 
the continuation of that peace and 
friendliness should be welcomed with 
open arms. And what tan do more 
than the playing of one another’s 
games. It benefits equally both na­
tions and friendly rivalry in sports 
is a glorious aid in guaranteeing the 
peace of the world.
So let Carnegie Tech perform her 
part and all men who would know and 
Continued on Page 7

---------------------------------------------------

uty? otaria«
TEST OF THE LARGEST 
REVERSING ENGINE 
IN THE WORLD.
Editor’s Note: This is the second
of a series of articles by graduates 
of the School of Applied Science. The 
next will appear in an early issue.
In November, 1913, a complete test 
was run on a 46-inch and 76-inch by 
60-inch Twin Tandem Compound Re­
versing Engine at the Youngstown 
Sheet and Tube Company’s Plant. 
This engine together with a 120-inch 
Barometric Condenser and Air Pump 
was installed by the Mesta Machine 
Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. The pow­
er is transmitted directly to a 44-inch 
blooming mill.
The writer, as representative of the 
builders, had the privilege of assist­
ing in the preparation for the test, 
in the test itself and in the calcula­
tion work following.
The style of the engine is shown 
in the figure which also may give a
better idea of its size to those who 
are not accustomed to thinking in 
terms of diameters of cylinders and 
stroke. The man in the photograph 
is not a midget but a six-footer.
The purpose of the test was the 
determination of the steam consump­
tion of the engine, the speed of re­
versal of the engine and the power 
required to roll steel.
Eight continuous indicators were 
needed, one for each cylinder end.
Wanner pyrometer was used for de­
termining the temperature of the steel 
while rolling. Thermometers were in­
serted at suitable points in the piping 
for obtaining the temperatures of the 
exhaust steam, tail water and cool­
ing water. A weir was provided for 
measuring the quantity of water leav­
ing the condenser.
The wiring for this test was rather 
complicated. Closing a knife switch 
started the paper feeds of the indi­
cators and placed the pencils against 
the paper. The dead center points of 
the engine, the position of throttle 
valve and position of the links and 
half-second intervals were recorded 
automatically on the indicator paper 
by electrical contacts. The telegraph 
key at the pulpit, with which contact 
was made at the beginning and brok­
en at the end of each pass, recorded 
the interval when the piece was in 
the rolls. When the switch was clos­
ed a bell in the engine room rang 
which warned all observers that a 
test was in progress.
The length of the piece after each 
odd pass was obtained by taking read­
ings from a scale with six inch di­
visions white washed along the mill 
tables. The final cross section was 
determined by calipering. The draft 
of the rolls for each pass was ob­
served from the screw-down gauge 
on the pulpit. The correctness of 
this gauge was checked later.
The observers required therefore 
were: first; one general overseer who 
started and ended the test by throw­
ing the switch; second, eight men, one 
at each indicator; third, one man at 
the condenser; fourth, one man at the 
telegraph key; fifth, one man at the 
screw-down gauge; sixth, one man 
noting the pass through which the 
piece passed and the passes before 
which the piece was edged; seventh,
one man observing temperature of 
steel; eighth, two men observing 
lengths of piece; ninth, one man ob­
taining weight, chemical analysis, and 
the final section of ingot.
It is evident that with so many 
individuals (fifteen test men and three 
mill operators) and so many instru­
ments (fourteen), the probability of 
obtaining a large percentage of sat­
isfactory tests is not great. Small 
failures of instruments or men to act 
in unison vitiate results. In this par­
ticular case, from sixteen tests, five 
good tests were obtained. Some of 
the troubles met were breakage of 
indicator cord, slippage of indicator 
paper, incorrect adjustment of atmos­
pheric lines, failure of electrical con­
tacts, and mistakes of mill operators 
resulting in idle passes.
The working up of such a test 
involves an immense amount of de­
tail work. The cards must be lined 
up so that the eight separate mean 
effective pressures acting on the en­
gine at any time may be known. To 
determine the mean effective pres­
sures, all cards must be planimetered. 
The steam consumption must be de­
termined from the cards and checked 
Continued on Page 4
He Walked Right In, 
Found a Suit, and 
Walked Right Out Again-
Describes the process of selecting an Easter suit the 
Horne way.
We are expecting you long before you come, and the 
kind of a suit you are likely to want—if your tastes run to 
the new and fashionable—is awaiting you when you arrive.
If the fit needs fixing, tailors are here to do it in a jiffy.
Twenty years of pleasing men, as particular as your­
self, has made us adept.
Price presents no obstacle.
Youths* Suits, $10.00 to $25.00 
Men’s and Young Men’s Suits, $ M 5.00 to $50.00
No men’s suits here for less than $15.00, because 
this is the loTvest price at which we have found it possible 
to sell all wool clothing that will give satisfaction.
Hat, topcoat, glove, cravat, cane—everything for 
Easter in keeping.
Joseph Home Co.
The Style Supreme Store 
PITTSBURGH
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4QHyp ©artatt
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Ave.
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Wernet* & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1 138
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTION”Browning, King 8c Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
r I ^HE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and 
Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheon—the finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
î M. M. C. S. NEWS I
I ».#••#.. «t.*..#..«..*..*. .#..0.
M. M. C. S. ATHLETIC ASSOCIA­
TION.
The first meeting of the Athletic 
Association of the M. M. C. S. was 
held Tuesday, March 24.
The officers elected were: President, 
Marguerite Spilman; and Secretary 
and Treasurer, Helen Wettach.
Monday, March 23, from one 
until two o’clock, Miss Elworth gave 
an interesting lecture on the History 
of Textiles and Design in Relation 
to Costums Economics, in the As­
sembly Hall of M. M. C. S. The lec­
ture was illustrated with slides.
The Junior and Senior classes of 
the Arts and Crafts Department vis­
ited on Monday, March 23rd, the 
Mayer China Company at Beaver 
Falls, Pa. Upon the return, Miss Far- 
ren entertained the girls at dinner at 
her home. The classes then attended 
the lecture on book-making at the 
Carnegie Institute on that evening.
Test of Large Reversing Engine
Continued, from Page 3 
by the condenser heat Dalance. The 
section of the ingot after each pass 
must be calculated. The piston veloc­
ity curve must be plotted from the 
half seconds marks on the open dia- 
and Mr. McCorkle, not the dean’s as- 
gram indicator cards.
The preparatory work extended ov­
er two weeks. The test itself requir­
ed two days. The calculation work 
for the set which the writer worked 
up took four weeks.
The steam consumption of this en­
gine is 21 pounds per indicated horse 
power hour with boiler pressure of 
150 pounds gauge and vacuum of 28 
inches referred to 30 inch barometer. 
The economy is very remarkable when 
it is considered that other condens­
ing reversing engines use steam in 
the range from 27 pounds to 40 pounds 
per indicated horse power hour.
The engine may be reversed from 
60 revolutions in one direction to 20 
revolutions in the opposite direction 
in two and two-tenths seconds. As 
a result of the high speed of reversal 
the engine is almost invariably ready 
to receive the piece before it is re­
turned to the rolls.
In practice the testing experience 
gained at the technical school is very 
helpful. At the same time the schem­
ing with an arranging of limited ap­
paratus introduces a factor not met 
with by the student. Tests which in 
the laboratory appeared very simple 
are later on appreciated as having 
been carefully considered and well 
worked up.
CHAS. RAISIG.
Science, ’12.
JOINT CONCERT.
On Friday, April seventeenth, our 
Musicals Clubs will give a joint con­
cert with the Glee and Mandolin 
Clubs of the Pennsylvania College for 
Women. Each year the girls club 
has selected some college club for an 
annual joint concert and after com­
peting with some of the nearby col­
leges our clubs won the honor this 
year.
The Glee Club of women’s voices 
is especially good this year. On 
March tenth they gave their annual 
home concert and the “write ups” 
which they received in the local press 
promise something good for the joint 
concert. It was the original inten­
tion to have the glee clubs of the 
two schools appear in at least two 
numbers together. The serious ill­
ness of Mr. McDonald, which necessi­
tated his going to the hospital, left 
our club without a director and has 
greatly handicapped the glee club. 
However, Mr. McDonald is now out 
and the original intentions will prob­
ably be followed.
The concert will be given in the 
Assembly Hall of the P. C. W., and 
it is hoped the Tech men will support it. 
There has been considerable criticism 
of the support given by the students 
of other schools and we do not wish 
to have the same said of us. Here is 
an opportunity to hear two clubs, 
each giving its best numbers which 
no doubt will prove to be a treat. 
Find a FRIEND, maybe two of them 
and then purchase the tickets. All 
Musical Club men are selling tickets 
at 50c, no seats reserved.
Ben Greet Players a Success
Continued from Page 1 
the leading feminine roles.
Charles Francis enacted Demetrius; 
George C. Somnes as Lysander; Hen­
ley Edwards as Theseus, Duke of 
Athens, and Bennett Kelysack as 
Egens, father of Hermia.
The performance in the afternoon of 
Shakespeare’s “As You Like It,” was 
well attended as was the evening pro­
duced. It is hoped that we may have 
a series of such helpful and entertain­
ing events in the near future.
A MYSTERIOUS CLOCK.
An Exhibition in One of Oakland’s 
Show Windows.
.What makes it go? That’s the puz­
zle to be solved—Quite a few curiously 
inclined men, women and children 
have been stopping in front of one 
of the Forbes street windows of Och’s 
Department store, the last two days, 
where a large glass dial is exhibited 
bearing the numerals of a clock dial 
and where two hands keep perfect time 
without any apparent motive power 
other than a small compass suspended 
from one of the hands. Some say it’s 
Radium that makes it go. Take a walk 
down that way, look it over, and see 
what you think about it.
BURGOYNE MEMORIAL 
CONCERT.
A concert given by the Symphony 
Orchestra of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, in memoriam to Arth­
ur G. Burgoyne, was held in the Ex­
hibition Hall of the Design School 
last Sunday afternoon.
The hall was filled to its capacity, 
many having to stand in the corridor. 
The program was well selected, giv­
ing the concert an impressive air. 
The following numbers were present­
ed:
Schuoert.... Symphony in B. Minor 
Allegro moderato. 
Tschaikowsky.String Quartet Op. 11 
Andante cantabile.
Gounod.........Hymne a Sainte Cecile
Andante sostenuto assai.
Grieg.Peer Gynt, Suite No 1 Op. 46 
Andante doloroso.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per­
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.—Adv.
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’, Children’* and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phone«: Office 449 Hiland Work*: 491 2 Hiland
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
Bell Phone 9124-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association 
Masters of Dancing
The upper classmen all patronize us
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Curen’s 
“TECH BARBER SHOP”
Craig and Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

5
True Values IA p rA True Values
far caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs AN Buhl,Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
INDUSTRIAL INTERCLASS 
MEET MORNING 
OF APRIL 18TH.
Dean Connelley has announced, that 
he will give to the class winning the 
interclass meet a silver loving cup 
upon which will be engraved the name 
of the winners of the meet. The cup 
is to be placed on exhibition in the 
new club room'. Mr. Overdorf of the 
Plebe Class, who was recently ap­
pointer second assistant Track Man­
ager, is arranging for the meet, which 
is to take place the morning of April 
18th.
Here is a chance where one of the 
classes can gain a little distinction 
by winning the cup, and thus having 
the honor of claiming the First Con­
nelley Trophy. To make this meet 
a big success and help Mr. Overdorf 
in his plans, it behooves each class 
to elect their captain and he in turn 
to get his team into shape.
INDUSTRIES NOTES.
The Minstrels are diligently re­
hearsing for their stunt to be given 
soon for the oenefit of the club room. 
It will be but a short time now before 
this is brought on the boards, and 
Industries students wishing to get 
in should watch the Minstrel bulletin 
board at the entrance to the club 
room for rehearsal dates.
It is to be commended that action 
for the official ‘burial’ of the old piano 
in the club room is pending. This 
rattle box is an eye sore and its re­
moval will lend a somewhat different 
atmosphere to our uncompleted quar­
ters. An additional supply of chairs 
would aid greatly towards making this 
room really inviting.
The Inter-class meet for the Dean’s 
cup,, to be given for the first time, has 
been set for April 18th. Entrants 
should sign the entry blank posted 
on the bulletin board near the store 
room.
The Safety First pictures shown to 
the general assembly last Wednesday 
should have a word of precaution for 
the machinists.
Clarke, ’16, was appointed second 
assistant football manager, and Over­
dorf second assistant track manager. 
With these men in the athletic end, 
the Industries school should start on 
its crusade toward self advancement. 
They need it.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat­
ifying results, particularly among for­
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Bell Tel. 726-L Wilkins.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY 
HAVE INTERESTING LEC­
TURE ON SAFETY FIRST.
The Wednesday lecture period of 
the Institute School was divided be­
tween a lecture on Safety First and a 
very enthusiastic business meeting.
Dean Connelley opened the meeting 
by a short talk on Safety First, fol­
lowing this was a reel of motion pic­
tures on the same subject, which were 
very interesting.
Pres. Price then opened the busi­
ness meeting by calling for a report 
from Chairman Monks of the Athletic 
Committee. Mr. Monks announced 
that at a joint meeting of the faculty 
Athletic and the Student Athletic 
Committee, second assistant manager 
had been appointed. J. H. Clark as 
second assistant football manager, and 
Mr. Overdorf as second assistant 
track manager. He also announced 
that an interesting class meet, of the 
Industries School, would take place 
Saturday morning, April 18th.
Mr. Hartman announced that Dean 
Connelley would present the winning 
class with a Silver Loving Cup. So 
it behooves each class to do their ut­
most to get possession of it. Pres. 
Price appointed the following com­
mittee to draw up a constitution for 
the assembly: Kerr, senior; Alberts, 
middle; Hoffman.
He also announced the following as 
the committee to furnish the club 
room: Fish, teacher; Parke, senior; 
Holeton, middle; Borlean, Plebe.
Mr. More then obtained the floor 
to suggest that the old piano now in 
the Club Room be given a fit and 
decent burial. This was greeted en­
thusiastically by the entire assembly. 
It was later suggested that we pre­
sent it to the Carnegie Museum. But 
after the din had died away it was 
decided to appoint two men from each 
class to arrange for its funeral.
Mr. Orr of the middle class, was 
announced as Mr. Randal’s successor 
as cheer leader. He will make his 
debut at the next assembly meeting.
Mr. Shutz announced Orchestra Re­
hearsal Monday 5:00, Room 104. This 
applies to students of all schools.
SPEAKS BEFORE 
ENGINEERING SOCIETY.
Mr. W. H. Dosey, head of the De­
partment of Foundry, School of Ap­
plied Industries, spoke before the 
German Technical Engineer’s society 
at the German Club, Craft Avenue, 
last Wednesday. His subject was, 
Modern Methods in the Production of 
Castings. He illustrated his talk with 
views of the school shops and labor­
atories. A large audience was on 
hand and a very animated discussion 
took place in which a number of prom­
inent engineers aired their views.
First Junior—What is the steam 
pressure?
Second Junior—Seventy-five pounds. 
“Absolute?”
“Positively.”
Stag Dance Successful
Continued from Page 1 
sistant, was present with his wife. Mr. 
McCorkle takes Doctor Grondahl’s 
place in the physics laboratory, since 
Doctor Grondahl, on leave of absence, 
is going to Berlin for advanced re­
search work.
The evening began with an hour of 
the Virginia Reel, in which Professor 
Stanton and Professor Doyle starred. 
Then came the much heralded indoor 
meet in which the Sophomores and 
Plebes tied for first place with the 
Juniors next, and the Seniors, who 
failed to secure a first, last.
In the first event, a thirty-inch dash, 
with six men from each class, where 
the contestants chewed up a thirty- 
inch string, the judges decided for 
the Juniors, in the person of B. Hant- 
man, thus giving them their only first. 
The standing broad grin went to the 
Sophomores when Professor Stanton 
with his fifty-foot tape called off thir­
ty-four, after measuring A. S. Hines. 
In the hammer throw, in which the 
hammer was an empty paper bag, the 
Plebe trio aided by the breeze through 
an open window behind them, scored 
all men high, and took the event. If 
Clair hadn’t put a piece of candy in 
his bag, he would have placed for 
the Seniors. In the shot, or bean 
in the jar put, Reno, by placing six out 
of 10, gave the Sophs another 
first place, while the Plebes won the 
relay race almost a lap ahead, with 
their rapid team1 of Hellstrom, Jacob­
son, and Sherwood. The officials of 
the meet were: Referee, Professor
Thayer; head starter, Professor Stan­
ton; assistant starters, Professors 
Aude and McCullough; timekeeper, 
Dean Leete, with assistants Mr. Stev­
ens, and Mr. Dorweiler; judges, Pro­
fessors Doyle, Work, Howarth, and 
Mr. C. W. Sproul; recorder, Mr. Mc­
Corkle.
After the dancing and eats which 
followed the track meet, a fancy danc­
ing contest was held. The judges were 
Mrs. Leete, Mrs. Stanton and Mrs. 
McCullough. Nine couples, Sawders, 
Kelso, Cameron-Harry, Connell-New- 
man, Crawford-Sherwood, Bauer- 
Tucker, Tumpane-Adolfzen, Savage- 
Poyntz, Welsh-Gaylord, and Hampen- 
Fletcher, competed. The first prize 
was awarded to Connell and Newman, 
the former a 1913 Science man, and 
the latter a Design Plebe; but Welsh 
and Gaylord in their role of hayseed 
and wife captured the booby prize by 
their frequent tumbles, resulting in 
the loss of beard, hats, and skirts.
The Hotel Schenley Barber Shop
solicits your patronage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
THE D. L. AULD CO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS Colunbin, B)Sfon, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES, CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL 
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland I ! 21 —R 
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH. PA.
“STUDENTS”
Try one of our “SPECIAL” Tailor made suits at $18.00. Young Men’s New Style for Spring.
“Quite Classy” You, will feel Sassy in our Made to Measure Suits. 
From
C. A. HEIMERT 
Men’s Outfitter
3614 Foibes Ave. Iroquois Block, Oakland 
Established in Pittsburgh in 1882
Present this AD “and we will allow 
you one dollar on your” Spring Tailor made Suit.
Oakland
Savings & T*rust Co.
1 He Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
1
Capital $200,000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $1,700,000,00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
The Genuine Step of
Tango, One Step, Maxixe 
and Hesitations 
McDOUGALL DANCING ACADEMIES
4616 Forbes St., and Shady and Penn Aves. 
SPECIAL TANGO CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
THE PITT.
Lizzie Hudson Collier returned to 
Pittsburgh this week, becoming lead­
ing woman of the Pitt players at the 
Pitt Theatre. Katherine Stanton, for­
merly at the Duquesne Theatre, also 
joined the Pitt players. They are ap­
pearing in Robert Marshall’s funny 
comedy, “The Duke of Killerankle.”
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

B©ly* âariatt
A PHASE OF INDUSTRIAL 
EDUCATION.
In an address delivered before the 
American Foundrymen’s Association 
at the convention in Chicago, at the 
opening of the school year, Dean Con- 
nelley gives an excellent account of 
the work that is being done in the 
School of Applied Industries. This 
fits in admirably with the Views on 
Industrial Education, as published last 
week in the Tartan, from' a report of 
Director Hamerschlag. The Dean's 
address, entitled “The Part That The 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Plays in the Development of Modern 
Foundry Practice,” has been publish­
ed in pamphlet form by the Associa­
tion and has been distributed broad­
cast. It is interesting in that, while 
it deals directly with but one branch 
of industry, the account is typical of 
what the School is attempting along 
all branches.
The address, in part, is as follows:
“This is distinctly an industrial age. 
Every age, in fact, since man was 
decreed to a life of work, has been 
an industrial age to a greater or less 
extent, but never before has the spirit 
of industry taken the ruling hand and 
swayed its scepter into the high and 
low places and breathed it genius 
into so many people in so many ways 
as at the present time. It has brought 
about a change of conditions in in­
dustry itself to such an extent that 
many of the old landmarks have dis­
appeared and numerous of the ancient 
traditions and customs attached to 
it have given place to the new leaven­
ing influence that is permeating it 
all.
“No longer does the master hand 
down to the apprentice and journey­
man the traditions of his art as was 
the case in the olden times. The 
word masterpiece which derived its 
origin from the custom whereby the 
journeyman became a master by the 
execution pf a mastelrful piefce of 
work—whether it be “the lovely lan­
tern or scroll, the blazoned shield, the 
large cylinder( the rolling mill hous- 
en,’ etc.,—now appears in an alto­
gether different setting. In our times 
the strong prejudice that existed 
against the man who entered the field 
of industry, by other than the beaten 
path of shop apprenticeship is rapidly 
waning and in most quarters has been 
obliterated entirely.
“No better acknowledgment of the 
change that has taken place can be 
found than in the purpose of just 
such an organization as the Ameri­
can Foundrymen’s Association. The 
object of this Association, as I under­
stand it to be, is, ‘to advance the in­
terests of the foundry operated; to 
collect information connected with 
the foundry business; and to exchange 
experience and encourage uniform 
customs and actions among the foun­
drymen.’ And, indeed, if there be one 
industry which, by reason of time- 
honored prestige and of increasing 
service to the world in this age of 
invention that should advance with 
the times, it is the foundry industry.
The paramount problem which you 
have to solve is, ‘How can we get men 
of the right stuff in anything like the 
numbers that the increased demand 
requires?’ The answer must come 
back to you in terms of the very spirit 
of the times. An industrial age de­
mands industrial education. At the 
very outset this organization is to be 
congratulated for the stamp of ap­
proval it has put upon the type of 
education that really fits one for life 
as we know it. You are to be com­
mended for your choice of the able 
men whom you have placed at the 
helm as chairman of Industrial Edu­
cation Committee and secretary of the 
Association. Their unflagging inter­
est and devotion in this live issue will 
make many a man, numerous boards 
of education, and as many institutions 
of learning rise up and call them 
blessed. Their kindly practical in­
terest in the development of the Car­
negie Institute of Technology brings 
upon this occasion a sincere and un­
solicited acknowledgment of service 
that has been extremely helpful.
“As an exponent of industrial edu­
cation in its superlative sense, the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, by 
reason of its abundant endowment and 
splendid equipment, is in a position 
to occupy a place of leadership which 
can only be hindered by the attitude 
of the industries themselves. Mr. 
Carnegie, in founding the Institution 
of Pittsburgh, an industrial center, had 
in mind the practical instruction of 
the sons and daughters of workers in 
the mills and factories in that vicin­
ity.
“Under the direction of Dr. Ham- 
merschlag and his executive staff and 
the eight prominent citizens who form 
the Committee on the Institute of 
Technology, the institution has had a 
phenomenal growth. In the present 
plant there are six commodious build­
ings, either in use or in the process 
of construction. The enrollment of 
students has increased gradually from 
the time it opened its doors to stud­
ents in October, 1905, with 120 stud­
ents, until the present school year, 
which starts with 3,100 students gath­
ered from all parts of the globe. Under 
the general title—Carnegie Institute 
of Technology—it comprises four dis­
tinct divisions or schools.
“Of these, School of Applied In­
dustries, on account of its provision 
for the trades for men, occupies a 
unique position in the education of 
this day. It not only teaches the var­
ious trades, but seeks to inculcate 
these principles of civic duty which 
make for good citizenship—a neces­
sary adjunct to education in its ful­
lest sense.
“It is more than a mere trade 
school, for in addition to giving prac­
tical instruction in the chosen trade 
or vocation, it offers a broad training 
along fundamental academic lines 
which dovetail in with the practical. 
It takes the so-called cultural and 
mixes it with the practical and both 
lose their stiff-back identity in a bet­
ter trained worker, and a more useful 
type of citizen. It is this type of
education that gives the average 
American workman the p6ise and 
bearing that he can, as has been well 
said, ‘wear a dress suit with as much 
ease and grace as he can his suit of 
overalls.’ As a general proposition, 
the training fits one for a position 
of foremanship along the mechanical 
and building lines.
“The schools open to both day and 
night students and so caters to all 
possible types of earnest manhood. 
The purely nominal fees make it pos­
sible for almost anybody to pursue a 
course along industrial lines. Rec­
ognizing the fact that all trades can 
be classified either as mechanical or 
as building, the courses are arranged 
accordingly. Under the heading of 
mechanical trades, being of particular 
interest to an organization like this, 
the course offered in our day school 
is known as Machine Construction. 
To be more explicit, it consists of in­
struction in the theory and practice 
of allied occupations, including ma­
chine, pattern, foundry, forge work 
and mechanical drafting. The prac­
tical training is supplemented with 
instruction in mathematics, physics, 
chemistry, English, commercial geog­
raphy, civics, industrial history, esti­
mates and costs and economics. This 
is arranged on a basis of three-year 
course, the first two years being con­
cerned with practice in the allied 
shops with the necessary academic 
studies, and the third year is for spe­
cialization along the particular line of 
most interest to the student, whether 
it be in machine shop, practice, me­
chanical drawing, forge, pattern, or 
foundry practice. It can readily be 
seen to men who are interested in 
the foundry Fhat such a comprehen­
sive training ought to turn out a 
broadgauged foundryman, familiar 
with every detail of the business. But, 
of course, it must be understood from 
the beginning that the graduate is no 
more a foundryman in the commercial 
sense than is the graduate of a law 
school a lawyer, or of a medical school 
a doctor, or of the theological semin­
ary a preacher. Only real experience 
in the outside shop in touch with out­
side business and professional world 
can give the higher finish to the 
skilled worker, and foreman, or pro­
fessional man.
“From the very inception of this 
particular industry in the School of 
Applied Industries of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, we took the 
stand, as is aptly expressed by Di­
rector Hammerschlag: ‘To make bet­
ter foundrymen, make better molders 
and to give foundrymen what is their 
just due in the commercial world.’ 
Much attention, therefore, was given 
first of all to the construction of the 
school foundry. For, as Thomas D. 
West says: ‘When a man is about to 
construct a foundry, he cannot give 
the matter too close attention. Let 
him make lines and rub them out 
again until he gets something that 
fills his ideas; then make three or 
four tracings, and submit them to as 
many practical foundrymen with the 
Continued on Page 7
Foorb
^COLLARCluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
HUKILL-HUNTER (0.
4Î4 Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeber Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
fLOWERSfOR ALL OCCASIONS
Randolph AN Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue 
Near Highland Ave.
I C. M. STAUFT S’.SP oPn Stationery, News, Etc. Si
Gentleman’s Watches ^and Repairing. -•
^3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. S'
Mellon National Bank
51 4 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com­
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Good« called for and delivered.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

She darían
A Phase of Industrial Education
Continued from Page 6 
request that they find all the fault 
with them they possibly can. Then, 
with a mind unprejudiced, let him con­
sider their opinions, and adopt what­
ever is good.’ Such a plan was car­
ried otit to the letter, and a look into 
the shop will convince every practical 
man of the result.
“The very appearance of the foun­
dry and the up-to-date equipment, on 
a par with the best of the commercial 
shops, is in itself a mute object les­
son of what the foundry really is and 
the important part it plays in the 
world’s industries. When it is known 
that hundreds of young men, indus­
trially inclined, spend a considerable 
portion of their time in this shop and 
hundreds of others, professionally in­
clined, for all students in engineering 
of the School of Applied Science are 
required to spend a certain portion of 
the first seventeen weeks of their 
schooling in the foundry as funda­
mental to their after-training, it is 
evident that impressions are being 
made which cannot help but reflect 
creditably upon the foundry, as an 
important link in the work-a-day ac­
tivities of the world. Then, the fact 
that prospective teachers of indus­
trial education in the public schools 
or higher vocational schools get shop 
training in this foundry makes it a 
factor in promoting something like 
ideal conditions from an educational 
standpoint.
“There is scarcely a day that some 
visitors, or group of visitors, from all 
parts of the world, make this shop 
the objective point of their sight­
seeing, and the oft-heard expression, 
“Well, this looks like a real foundry,” 
the echo of which must surely ring 
out and fall upon responsive ears. 
During the annual exhibition night, 
when the work of the students is on 
exhibition and the shop is made to 
show up in full blast, thousands look 
on with interest and admiration. Thus 
the general appearance of the school 
foundry is preaching a message and 
giving the industry itself a healthful 
publicity so necessary to the develop­
ment of modern foundry practice.
“A feature of the instruction offered 
in this school of real value to future 
journeymen is the emphasis that is 
laid upon safety and accident preven­
tion. The Institution has taken an 
advanced stand upon this important 
matter no less than three years ago 
and the results attained have been 
highly gratifying. During the first 
year and a half of the school’s exist­
ence, eighty-four accidents are record­
ed, six of which occurred in the 
foundry. A systematic campaign was 
inaugurated by the faculty against 
this evil with the result that a Safety 
Appliance Committee was appointed 
in 1910, which consists of practical 
shop men who suggest remedies, an 
academic member of the faculty who 
acts as secretary, and an instructior in 
mechanical drawing who devises and 
lays 6ut on paper the necessary inr- 
provements. This committee makes
frequent visits to the various shops 
and thus far has suggested sixty-seven 
safety appliances, at a total cost of 
$2,500, most of which have already 
been installed, the foundry receiving 
its due share.
“During the last two years but 
twelve accidents have been reported, 
one of which happened in the foundry, 
and in the last year but two accidents 
occurred, none of which was in the 
foundry. The instructor in foundry 
practice, as all shop instructors, in­
cludes in his regular lecture helpful 
talks on safety, pointing out that care 
and education along this line are of 
more real worth than the safety ap­
pliances, and cautioning safety first, 
last and always.
“Of more than passing interest as 
well is the fact that an intimate and 
systematic relationship exists between 
the various manufacturers of the city 
of Pittsburgh and the School of Ap­
plied Industries. This has an ex­
tremely wholesome effect upon the 
students as well as upon the work 
that the school is doing. This is 
maintained by the manufacturers co­
operating to the extent of appointing 
committees to advise the working out 
of the curriculum. Among the organi­
zations thus co-operating are the 
Pittsburgh Foundrymen’s Association, 
and the Molders’ Association. Major 
Speer, the past president of your As­
sociation, appointed his first commit­
tee from the Pittsburgh Foundry­
men’s Association to co-operate with 
the Molders’ Association to work 
with us on our course of study—as 
did also certain well-known firms en­
gaged in the foundry industry. Just 
recently committees have been ap­
pointed by the aforementioned asso­
ciations as well as the foundrymen’s 
local union who are waiting for the 
call of the Dean of the school to 
work out further plans for the school 
foundry. It can be mentioned, too, 
that of two members of the Commit­
tee on the Institute of Technology, 
one, Mr. William McConway, the 
chairman, is a foundry owner, and the 
other, Mr. W. Lucien Scaife, was for­
merly identified with the foundry in­
dustry. These men make frequent 
visits to the Institute with the ob­
jective point in view of seeing to it 
that the foundry maintains its stand­
ard of efficiency.
“In conclusion, then, it must be 
evident that the foundry of the School 
of Applied Industries of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology is interpret­
ing the meaning of foundry practice 
in a manner in keeping with the age 
in which we live. It is doing its share 
in serving as a clearing house for the 
publicity of what a model foundry 
should be; for the securing of a new 
and better type of foundrymen; for 
creating a sympathetic interest of 
what the real work of a foundryman 
is; for inculcating the idea of safety 
and accident prevention; for bringing 
together practical foundrymen to 
work out the problems of future men 
for the trade; in short, in the words 
of the American Foundrymen’s Asso­
ciation, for ‘encouraging uniform cus­
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END.
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modern exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh.
Oar business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily.
WE'VE FITTED FEET OVER FORTY YEARS.
THE UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER
Has No Rivals IN SPEED AND ACCURACY
IT HOLDS ALL WORLD’S RECORDS 
IN OPEN COMPETITION
“THE MACHINE YOU WILL EVENTUALLY BUY”
UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER COMPANY, INCORPORATED 
Underwood Building, New York
Branches in all Principal Cities
toms and actions among present and 
future foundrymen.’
“Thus the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology is playing its part in the 
development of modern foundry prac­
tice.”
Cricket
Continued from Page 2 
play the game of cricket come out 
and support the effort to form a crack 
team and send your name to H. W. 
Sharp, 5 Hagy Place, E. E., Pitts­
burgh, Pa., and Alex. J. Airston, 504 
Jennette Street, Wilkinsburgh, Pa.
CHOCOLATES
GRAND.
Anna Held is coming to the Grand 
Opera House next week, beginning 
Monday afternoon, April 6; surround­
ed by vaudeville turns from all parts 
of the compass and representing the 
ultimate of varied artistry. It is her 
first tour in this form of entertain­
ment and the first time also she has 
ever appeared at popular prices.
Mr. Davis is fortunate in his selec­
tion of other acts in the bill for Held 
week. He announces the return after 
several years’ tour of Europe of the 
maids who made “Hiawatha” famous, 
Meredith Sisters, in a representation 
of “Girls of Other Nations.” This 
is perhaps the most elaborate char­
acter singing act that has ever been 
offered in vaudeville and presents the 
most striking costumes that girls have 
ever worn upon the stage.
‘OUR MESSENGER” 
GOOD 
CLOTHES CHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street,N. S.
Boston Tech claims the Eastern in­
tercollegiate championship in wrest­
ling.
Speaking of wrestling, where is our 
team?
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

SEAL HUNTING.esQQsuual
BOVS. DID ANY ONE EVER TELL YOU
that Bennett s Clothes were costly ? If they did, forget it. Because our 
Men’s Clothes are superior to all other makes some fellows without in­
vestigating, jump to the conclusion they cost more than common clothes. 
They don’t. If you’ll come in we’ll prove it. See our
Spring Saits at $20, $22.50, $25, $28.
Finer Suits tip to $45.00
And our special offer to Tech Men lowers the above prices Considerable
SUye ®artatt
"be%“nsbest, J. G. BENNEII Y (0. WOOD-FIFTH 
ityShp AROWBEN lTt’
Corner Forbes and Bouquet StreetLUNCHES
CANDY, SODA. CIGARS, MAGAZINES
AT THE THEATRES.
8
Next Week.
Nixon—The Madcap Duchess.
Alvin—The Life of Our Saviour.
Grand — Vaudeville. Headliner— 
Anna Held.
Duquesne—Madame Sherry.
Pitt—The Second Mrs. Tanqueray.
Lyceum—My Friend From Ken­
tucky.
Carnegie Music Hall—Monday eve­
ning, April 6th, Mme. Clara Butt and 
Mr. Kennerley Rumford.
DUQUESNE—MADAME SHERRY.
' Madame Sherry,” next week’s of­
fering of the Harry Davis Players at 
the Duquesne, beginning with matinee 
Monday, April 6, assures exhilirating 
breezes of harmony and comedy 
throughout Pittsburgh for those who 
want to catch the spirit of early 
spring. ‘‘Madame Sherry ’ boasts at 
least one musical number which has 
been played and sung oftener in this 
country than “The Merry Widow,’’ 
and everyone will concede that’s go­
ing some. It is a polka, called “Every 
Little Movement Has a Meaning All 
It's Own.”
WAITING FOR A DRY FIELD.
As soon as a few days of warm 
dry weather takes some of the water 
off the field, the baseball squad will 
leave the crowded quarters indoors 
and will take up their activities out­
side. This will probably be the latter 
part of this week and almost certainly 
the first of next week. Practices will 
be held every day, if possible, both 
mornings and afternoons, during the 
Faster recess. The week of outdoor 
work will do wonders in developing 
the squad and preparing for the se­
lection of the team' that will start the 
season against Pitt on Forbes Field on 
April 18. As the first game is only 
two weeks off. the men are getting 
anxious to start the hard work outside. 
Coach McCulloch is also anxious to get 
a better line on his material and find 
out what kind of a team he can make 
out of the candidates that have re­
ported.
Very little can be said of the ability 
of the new candidates, judging merely 
from the showing made in the light 
work that has been on the program, 
but it is certain that out of forty men 
out for the various positions nine good 
ones can be trained to make a team 
that should be able to win a fair per­
centage of the games. The pitching 
squad is beginning to show some 
promise. A new man, Ryan, has been 
added, and he comes with a good rep­
utation, gained in local amateur cir­
cles. A few days of work on the field 
will give a good chance to pick out 
the players that will make up the first 
squad.
A schedule of games is being ar­
ranged for the second team which will 
include the best of the local prep 
school teams. These games will be 
played on the home field when the 
varsity is away and on foreign dia­
monds on other days.
(Continued from last week’s issue.)
By John S. Taylor.
DIARY OF SEAL HUNTING.
March 18. Wind E. N. E. Clear 
and cold. Seals are numerous, both 
old and young. Our men are 
not killing today, being Sunday, 
the law is very rigid with regard to 
Sunday killing. Hoisting in our pan­
ned seals everybody on board seems 
to enjoy the rest. 9:00 a. nr.—Cap­
tain of “Panther” just boarded us. 
9:30 a. m. turned in to enjoy “that 
which knits up the ravelled sleeve of 
care.” This is also Sunday. “Day of 
all the week the blest, emblem of 
eternal rest.” While on shipboard 
the sailor’s maxim is the rule. “All 
the week do what you are able and 
on Sunday holy stone the cable.” Poor 
Steve was with us last Sunday. 6:30 
p. m.—Wind veered round to N. ac­
companied by snow showers. Five 
degrees below zero. 16,000 pelts 
aboard and about 5,000 panned. No 
steamers in sight, owing to thick 
weather. Excellent suppers, consist­
ing of tinned meat, pickles, cheese, 
condensed milk and coffee, cranberry 
pie. As usual, did justice to myself 
not being selfish.
March 19. Wind N. W. by N. Very 
fine day. Picking up our flags. A re­
port was current about 5:00 p. m. that 
the “Panther’s” crew were stealing our 
pelts. By 10:00 a. m. supposed to 
have 20,000 under hatches. 11:00 a. 
m. some joker placed a white coat in 
one of the boats hanging on the stern 
“davits.” It kept up a continual cry 
until dawn when one of the men threw 
it overboard.
March 20. Wind N. N. W. Clear 
and frosty with temperature at two 
degrees below zero. Very much 
warmer, as the day advanced. 6:00 
p. m.—A break-down occurred to the 
condenser that took us 4 1-2 hours to 
repair. 9:00 p. m.—Aurora Borealis 
very brilliant. The sky is studded 
thickly with stars while the Borealis 
continually dances and shifts across 
the sky and MacMaster’s poem, 
“Northern Lights,” describes it very 
well:
Still o’er the silent pole 
Numberless armies roll.
Columns all plumed and cohorts of 
artillery.
Still girded nobles cross the snowy 
fields
In flashing chariots, and their crim­
soned shields 
Kindle afar the icy peaks Cordillera.
March 21. Wind N. by W., blow­
ing strong. We are on the trail of 
the hood seals. 4:00 a. m.—A commo­
tion was caused by a bear and two 
cubs coming aboard. No doubt at­
tracted by refuse thrown from the 
ship and also the savory smell of pea 
soup from the “for’ard” galley. The 
cook was badly scared for the nonce 
and declared he had seen an appara- 
tion. Chase was made but they got
away in the dim light. Weather fine 
and clear. 10:00 a. m.—Steaming 
through scattered ice and numerous 
lakes of water. 8:00 p. m.—We are 
now among the “hoods.” The killing 
of this species of “Pinnigrada” seems 
to me more revolting chiefly owing 
to the large quantity of blood spilled, 
and the musk-like odor of it. 12:00 
m.—“Terra Nova” and “Diana” near 
us all day. “Grand Lake” coming on 
with full speed. 3:30 p. m.—A report 
is around that we have enough killed 
and will soon “bear up” for port some 
splendid shots were made today by 
our gunners. The first officer shot 
a male hood at 500 yards from the 
stern, using a Martin-Henri rifle. I 
shot one at 150 yards, the ball enter­
ing the mouth. Men are out in boats 
among the hammock ice. 10:00 p. m.
¦—Dismal night, with rain and fog, 
ice running very wild along our bows. 
11:00 p. nr.—Lost a propeller blade, 
a piece of ice being jambed in the 
“shoe,” and ternpost. I noticed the 
hull during my watch, several times 
being forced or squeezed inward by 
the rapidly moving ice.
March 22.—Wind S. S. E. Warmer 
with snow showers still picking up 
and shooting. 7:30 a. m.—Coming 
foggy, “Neptune” in sight about 100 
yards from our “port quarter.” All 
hands stowing cargo and taking 
aboard ice.
March 23.—Wind S. S. W.. Soft 
weather. Picking up seals as we go 
along. The water is now a deep green. 
Sharks are numerous following our 
"wake;” big fellows, too. 9:00 a. m. 
—A big shark was hooked and winch­
ed in. Sea faring men do not have 
any sympathy for the shark tribe con­
sequently this one was cut up very 
quickly. It measured twelve feet. 
The dorsal fin was nailed to the “heel” 
of the “bowr sprit” as a warning. One 
old hunter got a piece of its skin as 
a cure for rheumatism1 (presumably). 
11:00 a. m.—Sharks are pulling the
carcasses off the ice, turning over as 
they do so, thus displaying the white 
belly which can be distinctly seen 
through the deep green water. I 
could not resist a few shots at this 
greedy merciless vulture of the ocean 
which had followed us for hours for 
some old tin cans. 8:00 p. m.—Wit­
nessed a very pathetic sight; a baby 
hood being overlooked by the sealers 
made frantic efforts to fondle its par­
ent which had been scalped. Poor lit­
tle creature. A report is current that 
we shall be homeward bound tomor­
row. “Panther” alongside about 3:30 
p. m., seems to be deeply laden. We 
are now so deeply laden that every 
lurch brings a shower of briny water 
down our mess room. The carpenter 
had to bore holes to free us from this 
inconvenience.
8:30 p. m.—“Burnt down” fires 
which means rest.
March 24.—Wind N. W. by N. with 
snow showers. The general opinion 
is that we are homeward bound. Hail­
ed the “Greenland” at 6:30 a. m. Re­
ports for 10,000. Several large bergs 
around us. Steaming all day.
March 25.—Wind N. N. W. Very 
fine with intense frost. Atmosphere 
wonderfully clear. Again “burnt 
down” at 4:30 p. m. until 6:30 a. m. 
following day. Captain evidently not 
satisfied.
March 26.—Wind N. W. Weather 
fine and clear. Men all out again at 
3:00 a. m. Picking off scattered hoods 
many of which are shot in the water 
and gapped out. We are in the lat­
itude of “Partridge Point” at the 
entrance of “White Bay.”’ Beautiful 
sunset. No steamers in sight. North­
ern Lights very brilliant.
(To be continued.)
All rights reserved.
Holders of degrees will not be al­
lowed to compete on varsity teams 
after this year at Pennsylvania. The 
idea is to give somebody else a chance.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.
