TARTAN
April 25, 1978 Volume 78, Number 27 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
Cyert candid at Forum
In recent Open Forum, President Cyert promised to upgrade University Library facilities.
Applications down 19%
President Cyert announced at the re*, designed to pinpoint the possible reasons
cently convened Board of Trustees meeting 
that the number of students seeking admis­
sion to CMU has dropped.
By the end of last week, the Admissions 
office had received 3100 applications, 
down from last year’s record number of 
4300. Admission personnel report that ap­
plications are still coming in at the rate 
of 10 to 15 per day and all told, an addi­
tional 200 will probably be received by the 
end of the school year.
Cyert expressed concern about the pos­
sible reasons for the reduction in applica­
tions and has asked the admissions office 
to conduct a study of selected members 
of the nearly 5000 students who requested 
admissions material. The questionnaire is
for the reduction. The questionnaire will 
explicitly address the following issues:
1)How do non-applicants perceive CMU?
A.Quality
B.Cost
C. Reputation
D.Program offerings
2)Did these students not apply because 
they felt they would not be admitted?
continued on page twelve
by Paul Henderson
Last Thursday at 12:30, President 
Cyert held an open forum in the Wherrett 
Room. The Forum was attended by about 
20 students. Dean Swank and Vice-Presi­
dent Van Horn were on hand to help with 
the questions. With voice hoarse and crack­
ling, Cyert first answered a-question con­
cerning faculty-administration communica­
tion, and the lack of it(ie. Music Ed, AMS), 
Cyert claimed that there was enough com­
munication. He referred to his many facul­
ty luncheons and his visits to a different 
department each month. He said he has 
also told faculty to feel free to come to his 
office or call him. He said that he has al­
ready talked to at least 60% of the faculty 
this year.
Then the sticky issue of the “Art of 
Persuasion” course came up. “Art of 
Persuasion,” a very popular English
departmental course, has been can­
celled despite massive student protest.
Cyert said that Anne Hayes, temporary
Head of English, cancelled the course be­
cause it was “vocational*’. He then said 
that it was a “low level course, that doesn’t 
belong in this university”. He also said 
that he was not well informed about the 
course and that he doesn’t know its cost, 
but that the money “might be better spent 
elsewhere”. He has a “good bit of faith” 
in Anne Hayes, and thinks her decision was 
“reasonable”.
When questioned further on it, he be­
gan to turn around at his stand. He said 
that the high amount of A’s and B’s in the 
course “is no reason for cancelling a 
course” and that the grading can be taken 
care of. He then said that he would let the 
soon-arriving new Head of English make 
the final decision on the course.
Many students then expressed a need 
for a recreation center, stating that present
facilities were very inadequate. Dean 
Swank fielded this question and conceded 
that a recreation center is lacking on cam­
pus, but that there are no plans for it. He 
said that originally Skibo was to be a recre­
ation center, but that it was not built that 
way because of the high staffing costs a 
recreation center would create.
CMU’s deplorable library system was 
then discussed. Van Horn took the ques­
tion and said that there are plans now un­
derway for upgrading the system. He said 
that the University is spending $100,000 
to better enhance the book and periodical 
selections. There has also been a $205,000 
Mellon Foundation grant given to the li­
brary to study non-traditional library 
functions(data banks, inter-library courier 
service, etc.), and $75,000 has gone to 
upgrading the humanities collection. He 
also has encouraged the implimentation of 
inter-library services, and now the Hillman 
Library catalog is on microfilm in Hunt 
Library. Van Horn feels these measures will 
solve the problem.
Van. Horn then revealed that there is 
a plan to set up a central mailbox system, 
with each campus resident and commuter 
having his own mailbox. The boxes would 
be located in a central location, prefer­
ably Baker Hall.
Increasing energy usage was then 
brought up. Van Horn admitted that 
energy usage had gone up after the coal 
crisis was over, but that measures would be 
taken to try to cut this higher usage. Van 
Horn wants to experiment with individual 
thermostats for each room. Timers on the 
light switches will be implimented. And, in 
a far-ranging plan, all the windows in 
Baker, and Porter Hall would be replaced. 
The project would cost 2.5 million dollars 
and would be done over a five year period.
Interracial relations discussed
Clarification
In last week’s TARTAN, a front page 
article about Vern Bish, former Director 
of Housekeeping, contained some points 
which need clarification.
In the article we listed six accusations 
directed toward Mr. Bish in an anonymous 
lettei that the TARTAN received a week 
earlier. We continued by stating that “a 
high level CMU administrator told the 
TARTAN that most of the accusations in 
the letter were accurate.”
The administration, after seeing die 
letter in question, did say that they were 
aware of the problems and believed that 
there could be a grain of truth in each ac­
cusation. However, at the time of our 
printer’s deadline, the administrator in­
volved, and the TARTAN, did not have 
sufficient evidence to either validate or 
refute the claims made in the anonymous 
letter, and still don’t.
We would like to apologize to Mr. Bish 
if any of our readers took the article as a 
declaration of his guilt. We had no inten 
tions of libelling him, and in no way did 
we wish to hurt his reputation. We were 
reporting the information that was avail- 
' ;>f that time.
by Mike Snizek
Last Friday’s cold weather forced the 
cancellation of the first of a series of inter­
racial awareness meetings.
Dr. Marion Oliver, Associate Dean of 
SUPA and C MAP Director, reported that 
the inter-racial retreat plans included tak­
ing 50 Black and 50 White students to the 
site of ‘77 freshman camp in Butler, Penn­
sylvania. Slated for April 21-22, the pro­
gram called primarily for social interaction 
with a dance concluding the weekend's 
activities.
Plans for the retreat and the subsequent 
discussions concerning black-white rela­
tions at CMU were the result of an inform­
al dinner meeting held at Oliver's house 
on Saturday April 7. That evening 23 students. Dr. Oliver his wife, and Mary
Ann O'Nan, coordinator of Undergraduate 
Programs, GSIA, discussed various issues 
concerning black-white relations on 
campus.
Oliver reports that the session, the first 
structured inter-racial meeting ever at 
CMU was the result of the efforts of Oliver
and TARTAN News Editor, Jean Pellegrini, 
who had originally intended to write a 
series of stories on the C-MAP program. 
Her discussions with Oliver revealed a 
basic unawareness of C-MAP objectives
continued on page twelve
inside
Dr. Marion Oliver, C-MAP Director, and his family hosted interracial awareness dinner.
news...
Career Placements gives record (page 2) 
SARC conference reviewed (page 3) 
Tom Kerr speaks out (page 4)
features,.. 
entertainment...
Renaissance Concert reviewed (page 24)
folio...
Free For All (page 13)
sports...
Concrete Canoe Races (page 29)
More Carnival
Pictures! 
seepages 10-11

---------------------------------------------------

page 2-TAR TAN-Apri I 25, 1978
CÍT, GSIA lead in placements
by Paul Henderson and Warner Fielder
One of the most significant aspects of 
receiving a college diploma is the oppor­
tunity to sell that piece of paper in the 
open market. The CMU office of Career 
Services and Placement performs an exten­
sive job of assisting and supporting a grad­
uating student. The placement staff, con­
sisting of J0 Dennis Ryan(Director), Mary 
L. Haugh(Assistant Director), and Robert 
Nelson(Assistant Director), provide a 
number of services for job-seeking stu­
dents.
At the beginning of the fall semester, 
Ryan holds a career seminar. He invites 
personnel directors from leading corpora­
tions to advise students about job inter­
views, and to give inside information on 
what the employer is looking for. 1
After this seminar, the student and the 
Placement office begin the process of 
achieving his or her individual goals. The 
student first obtains a brochure which 
contains an outline of the entire placement 
process, and a listing of the corporations 
holding interviews on campus. The Place­
ment Office also provides a book that 
lists each corporation interviewing on 
campus, and the qualifications the cor­
poration is looking for in the student. It 
also gives a brief description of the com­
pany, and benefits it provides. Placement 
also helps the corporation conduct inter-
views on campus.
After the student is interviewed and 
receives job offers, Placements provides 
counseling to help the student decide 
which offer to take.
Another important job of the office is 
the compilation of employment statistics. 
Final stats for each term are completed 
the following December. Thus 1977-78 
statistics are not yet available.
However, reports are now available for 
76-77. These reports give salary informa­
tion, placement percentages, etc.(see 
table ).
C1T holds the strongest placement po­
sition with each department placing more 
than 95% of its graduates.
GSIA’s masters program takes second 
place with 94% of its graduates placed, 
although GSIA’s own separately published 
stats proclaim a 100% placement record. 
The GSIA stats are more reliable since 
GSIA has its own placement office, with 
which most of its students deal. Thus,, 
students do not provide complete informa­
tion to the Campus placements office, as is 
evidenced by Placement’s 94% figure.
MIS foilows a distant third with an 85% 
rate. Then SUPA at 77%, CFA at 63%, and 
AMS and H&SS bringing up the rear with 
62% rates.In terms of salary, Chemical Engineers 
draw the highest salaries for undergrad-
BACHELOR 
No.Offers High Low
SALARY SURVEY-CLASS OF 1977 
MASTER
Average No.Offers High Low Average
uates. In master’s programs, Masters of 
Engineering narrowly edge out GSIA for 
top salary. And Computer Science candi­
dates draw the top doctoral degree salaries.
These stats are extremely helpful to 
a job-seeking student, but they can also be 
misleading. In Fine Arts, for example,
very few employers do campus recruiting, 
and students usually find jobs without 
Career Services help. Thus students usually 
do not report any offers or salaries to 
Placements, and the stats suffer. 1 '
The stats are also misleading because a 
student can get a job offer that is not in 
his field, but it will still be considered an 
offer, and he as a student placed* Thus, a 
Mech. Er can be driving a cab, but still be 
counted as placed. :
Although 1977-78 stats are not yet 
available, Ryan says it will be a very good 
year. A record number of interviews were 
held this year, over 8,000. There was a 
6—8% rise in companies recruiting, and an 
18% rise in job offers. Ryan is constantly 
working to pull in more employers to inter­
view here, in hope that each year will be 
more successful that its predessesor. 
Judging from CMU’s rising placement 
record, his efforts have paid off. And next 
year should be better, in fact, the 1978-79 
interview schedule has already been three-
quarters booked.... - . ............................. ............
DOCTORATE 
No.Offers High LowAverage
Engineering:
Bioengr.N/A:11870
Chemical136150012001390421600140015166190017251833
Civil431400100011956141012081345
Electrical1901404115012724516701175142211200014171760
Mechanical71 '1450105012885161714251530
Metallurgy
&Mat.Sci3214001238132491610140014786Í 1925Í6101769
Master of
Engr.N/A22200014001624N/A
Nuclear Set.
... InjiL ...N/A415701375¦ ^
Science:
Bio.Sciences8126011251201N/AN/A
Chemistry181260975113111300
Computer Sci.N/A4200018331921
Math3214657921170815001083126611500
Physics212501140119521250115012005179213331663
Mgmt/Business.
Admin. &y
Mgmt Sci.2115708001196N/AN/A
Industrial
Admin.N/A24522921208161712033
Public Mgmt.
& PolicyN/A17166811671424
StatisticsN/A
Fine Arts:
Architecture31308917107811250
Design81600602970
Drama265060662811667
Art1705
Humanities & Social Sciences:
Economics1115008331196N/AN/A
English812838001037
History3120010001094
Modern
Languages1700N/AN/A
’ Psychology2740733736N/AN/A
Social
RelationsN/AN/A
Student Def.
Major211679171042N/AN/A
Tn*< above data lepitjsor:: :*tary offers reported by Car* ieaie-Meiton students in the I9J/ qraduating 
cltisc >t includes made by business, industrial, governmental and non prot*t employers, tt does
not include u'..e. - ¦ a tended by educations! uctituiiuns o: school systems tor teachmq, n^earch or 
administrative posts Salary figures given are monthly ______________
Senate murmurs
by Carl Freedman
In the continuing saga of the Water­
melon Bash, the story finally comes to a 
close. At this week's Senate meeting, Bob 
McNall moved that the Bash be funded by 
Senate through the Activities Fair Com­
mittee, which also funds the Activities 
Fair, Pic Book, and Transfer Reception. 
Senate passed the motion. Then, speaking 
for UFO, McNall withdrew the restraining 
petition that called for a referendum con­
cerning the Bash’s funding.
Another major event that took place 
this meeting was the constitutional am­
endment proposed by Danni Smith 
(H&SS). The amendment would change 
articles 3 through 10, abolishing Senate as 
it stands now, and replacing it with a seven 
member board elected by the students. 
There would be no Student Government 
President, nor ex-officio members from 
SDC, UFO, CCCP, Faculty Senate, or the 
administration. Other changes would in­
clude procedure to have a motion or am­
endment brought to the Board through 
petitioning. The proposed amendment was 
tabled until the next Senate meeting, as 
is stated in the present constitution.
A second constitutional amendment was 
brought up by Mike Inners. ’This one 
called for changing the number of days 
that Senate has to hold a referendum after 
given a restraining petition from three 
weeks to fifteen days. This was also tabled 
until next meeting.
Inners also wanted Senate to reconsider 
an amendment to the by-laws made last 
meeting. The amendment was to allow a 
chairperson to break ties in voting» This 
was brought up to allow the chairperson to 
represent his constituency, since it is 
missing a vote. President John Tumazos 
expressed some concern that the chair­
person is too powerful, being an ex-officio 
member of every outstanding committee, 
and that the chairperson is not elected by 
the entire campus. Despite Tumazos’ 
objections, the motion was passed.
In Tumazos’ report,he talked about the 
Trustees’ Student Affairs Committee, 
which discussed the status of Club Ath­
letics. At this meeting, Mr. Banner, direc­
tor of athletics, stated that it was too 
expensive to fund Baseball and Hockey 
Clubs, and there is a lack of facilities for 
them. To look into the situation, Tum­
azos formed a committee headed by Greg 
Ellis and including McNall and Jack Ar­
turo.
Finally, Senate approved the appoint­
ments of Steve Lane and Steve Birke to the 
Student Government Corporation.
Next Senate meeting is scheduled for 
April 25, at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett 
Room.
Fill this 
space!
Write for the 
TARTAN
If you have questions, comments, suggestions, or criticisms about FOOD SERVICE,I i

---------------------------------------------------

*pril 25, 1978—TARTAN—page 3
The SDC space
by Carolyn E. Stevyart
Immediately after the role was taken at 
this week's meeting, President Carolyn 
Welty ordered every representative to go 
outside and clean up the SDC tent. After a 
few minutes and a lot of grumbling, the 
tent was cleared out and the meeting con­
tinued. There was, however, no quorum 
present, and only a few topics were dis­
cussed.
Welty congratulated all of SDC for its 
many successes at Spring Carnival—first 
prize in booth competition (for independ­
ents), placing second in buggy design com­
petition, the Gong Show, and the dance. 
Abby Selman proudly displayed the booth 
trophy, won for the second year in a row.
The Renovations Committe requested 
two new color TV's, but was told that 
there was not enough money in the budget 
for them.
The Intramural Committee said that 
they needed three representatives for the 
IM Board.
Wayne Nickerson, Bob English, and Charles La Vallee of CMU Campus Ministry 
Council would like to thank the students and faculty who fasted to raise $2,500 for 
OXFAM AMERICA. The money was raised during the World Hunger Awareness Week 
and Fast held in March at CMU.
President's Piece
SARC conference termed "success
//
by Jean Pellegrini
The Student Alumni Relations Council 
(SARC) sponsored an all-day conference, 
“Issues in Business Today,” which was 
held in the Skibo Ballroom on Tuesday, 
April 18. 5
According to Linda Schorr, Assistant 
Director and SARC Advisor, Alumni Of­
fice, ‘The conference was very successful.
I hope that this is the first of what will be 
an annual business conference sponsored 
by SARC.” She added that this was “an 
opportunity not only for students but also 
for alumni to talk*’ about the possibili­
ties of students becoming future business 
leaders.
The conference began at 8 AM with a 
Welcome and Orientation and continued 
throughout the day with a series of dis­
cussions with prominent business leaders. 
The agenda included discussion groups 
which met after each topic was discussed. 
The groups raised questions that were later 
addressed to each speaker.
‘The conference was excellently 
planned and the discussion groups were 
very effective. The groups have generated 
some very thought-provoking issues; the 
students are getting a view that is diffi“ 
cult, if not impossible, to obtain from the 
classroom,” commented alumnus Donald 
L. Baeder, President of the Hooker Chem- 
ical Corporation. Baeder, the first speaker, 
discussed “Ethics vs. Profits” and stressed 
that a business can be both profitable and 
ethical.
The remaining speakers also provided 
insight into the business world through 
first-hand experience, carefully researched 
statistical reports, and personal observa­
tions.
Norman F. Parker, President, Varian 
Associates and Maxwell H. Connan, Pres­
ident. Conart Industries Corporation, dis­
cussed “Corporations and Entrepreneurs.” 
Connan gave an interesting talk which fo­
cused on his experience as a self made man 
in business. “I could really relate to many 
of the things that he said but he also 
brought to mind advantages and disadvan­
tages about small businesses that I found 
extremely interesting.” an AMS sopho­
more commented»,
“Multinational Corporations” was Dr. 
George Roberts’, President, Teledyne Inc., 
topic. He stated that “International trade is 
a game. . . I am in favor of increasing ex~ 
ports and imports (in the U.S.) if the 
balance of trade can be kept positive. . . 
Government needs to improve its under­
standing of total foreign competition.” 
The next discussion was presented by 
Paula D. Hughes, Vice President and 
Director, Thomson, McKinnon Securities, 
Inc. Her talk was entitled “I.F.W \vhich 
stood for “intuitive forecasting.” "Hughes 
raised questions on many issues including: 
the future of students “who will be part of 
the best educated work force in the U.S. 
history;” the degree of freedom in the 
“Free Enterprise” system; the possibility 
of fusion as the major energy means of the 
future; and the need for a revised social 
security system because of the increasing 
number of retirees and decreasing birth 
rate. Hughes remarked that, ‘The confer»
ence was superbly structured. I regret that 
there weren’t more people.”
The keynote address was presented by 
former Chairman of the Board of Westing- 
house Electric Corporation, Donald 
Burnham.
Burnham’s remarks focused on the in­
creasing importance of government regula­
tions and their impact on big business. 
Using actual industry information from the 
Dow Chemical Company, Burnham stated 
that if Dow’s governmental compliance 
yearly expenses of S160 million are extrap­
olated over the entire range of firms in the 
United States, well over $60 billion per 
year are spent on merely complying with 
existing regulations. “Business spends more 
on compliance than on new development. 
This must change if America is to grow.” !
Junior AMS major Kathy Koledin con­
cluded that the day long conference “was 
sure more informative than class. Is really 
enjoyed it.”
Lounge search continued
by Andrew L. Ragan
According to Earle Swank, Dean of 
Student Affairs, the search is continuing 
for an available space on campus for a 
new central campus student lounge.
The lounge proposal, which suggests 
that a lounge be made for use by students 
of all departments, was requested by 
students during talks with President 
Cyert a few weeks ago, and has since 
been handed over to Dean Swank to be 
incorporated into his program for pro­
viding students with more social out­
lets.
An article in a previous,TARTAN re­
ported that plans were being made to 
convert the Multipurpose Room of Hunt 
Library into this lounge, but Dean Swank 
relates that apparently he was misinter­
preted. Swank explained that President 
Cyert inquired about the Multipurpose 
Room as a possible space for the lounge. 
Swank stated, “I had replied to the Pres­
ident even then that tluil room was so 
heavily used for academic purposes that
I thought it was inappropriate." Reported­
ly. certain people who now make use 
of the Multipurpose Room were upset
over the implication of the article.
However. Swank says that he and the 
campus coordinator of space are looking 
for a place in the center of the campus 
which could be accessible to all students. 
The search, he maintains, will begin in 
earnest after the confusion of graduation 
has past.
On other fronts of his social outlet 
possibilities. Swank reports that chances 
are good for additional ‘special nights' at 
the Tartan Grill, while considerations are 
being made for other proposals.
The ‘special nights’ proposal was on 
the agenda of the Student Advisory Com­
mittee meeting which was cancelled, but 
it should be discussed at the next SAC 
meeting.
Students have brought an interesting 
point to Swank in regard to his proposals 
for additional social outlets. They pointed 
out that students may not be able to en­
joy these outlets, regardless of iiow many 
'there are or how often they are held, 
simply because there is no time to do so 
because of academic pressures.
If you have any suggestions, take them 
to Swank's office in Warner Hall.
by John Tumazos
In early March before the election I 
voted against the final form of the original 
Watermelon Bash budget because the event 
was to be held in fraternity square. Other 
senators have objected that the organiza­
tion and the event are not “educational, 
scientific, or cultural.” That is, the bash is 
a social event. If we fund UFO's party, we 
then hare an obligation to fund anyone's 
party. Even the Activities Fund, which 
contains $135,000 for next year’s budget, 
is not that limitless. Thus, I voted to re­
scind the UFO budget.
Conflict of Interest
Within the current structure of Senate, 
senators can vote themselves money. Even 
though 1 have confidence in many of our 
senators, the potential for abuse is fright­
ening.
The UFO Watermelon Bash budget is a 
case in point. In a poorly attended Finance 
Committee meeting during the Russian Flu 
epidemic, two senators— the Treasurer of 
UFO and the President of ZBT—cast the 
two votes which permitted the UFO 
budget to reach the senate floor. 
The budget was ratified primarily by UFO 
senators during the fourth hour of a poor­
ly attended Senate meeting. When the UFO 
Watermelon Bash budget was rescinded, 
UFO then petitioned for a general campus 
election so they could once again vote 
themselves money.
In all fairness 1 must stress that the 
UFO senators contribute a lot to the Sen­
ate, and their organization is at times one 
of the most constructive forces on campus. 
Furthermore, virtually every senator is 
biased on some issue. For example, several 
senators are currently advocating that we 
fund CIA and Fringe. I oppose funding 
these partisan groups.
The point is that the Activities Fund, 
$135,000 of public money, is up for grabs. 
Something must be done to combat con­
flicts of interest*
On Packing the Senate
Many individuals are concerned that 9 
of the 24 senators belong to fraternities 
or sororities and that six belong to one 
house, ZBT. In addition, the United 
Fraternal Organization has created a new 
officer, “Senate Coordinator,” whose 
purpose is to work to place UFO’s people 
in Senate. This individual has already 
suggested candidates to me for one af> 
pointed post.
Although I don’t mind a little advice 
every now and then, the fraternal Greeks 
must realize that they are literally forcing 
independent candidates to form their own 
political party! This will divide the campus. 
Well lose sight of our common problem, 
the Administration. In any event, I will 
vigorously oppose any partisan group’s 
attempt to pack the Senate.
Two ideas are central to my view of the 
United Fraternal Organization Watermelon 
Bash budget. First, public monies the pro­
ceeds of the Activities Fee should not 
finance closed social organizations' parties« 
Second, members of an organization should 
not be able to vote themselves money from 
the Activities Fee. Their conflict of interest 
is apparent.
Social Events
Student Senate's By-Laws state that 
“only an educational, scientific, or cultur- 
al organization” may receive Activities Fee 
monies. Many student organizations- As* 
tronomy Club, Chess Club. Club Franco
continued on page twelve
call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR’S HOT LINE, X2127, Monday 5pm-6pm.

---------------------------------------------------

page 4—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
Professor Kerr appeals
The following is a statement from 
Thomas M. Kerr, Associate Professor, 
GSIA, which appeared in the April 14 issue 
of FOCUS, a publication of the faculty 
and staff of CMU:
On December 1, 1977 the CMU Faculty 
Senate discussed “ . . . the propriety of 
procedure . . which had been followed 
by administrators respecting a proposed 
phase-out of CMU’s Music Education pro­
gram. Focus, January 11, 1978. Central 
to this discussion was whether the ad­
ministration had maintained “ . . . a close 
exchange of views widi faculty and stu­
dents . . as set out in both the Faculty 
Handbook and the Student Handbook.
On February 9, 1978, the Faculty 
Senate passed a resolution respecting the 
administrative procedures employed in 
the decision to drop Music Ed, as follows:
Be it resolved by the Carnegie-Mellon 
University Faculty Senate that:
i) We deplore the failure of the Music 
Department Head to solicit at the ap­
propriate time the opinions of the 
Music Education faculty as part of his 
evaluation of the future role of Music 
Education at CMU. This seems to us to 
ignore the rights of the affected fa­
culty members to demonstrate the 
value of their activities and to deny to 
the Music Department, the College of 
Fine Arts and the University an op­
portunity to create a constructive 
synthesis from the differing views on 
the worth of the Music Education 
option.
ii) we deplore the fact that, under the 
leadership of the Dean of the College 
of Fine Arts, the Head of the Music 
Department was not encouraged to 
create a climate of free discussion of 
such matters within his department.
At that meeting the Senate also voted 
to commit for drafting a statement 
“ . . . that would strengthen assurances of 
faculty participation in decisions about 
academic programs.” Focus, February 17, 
1978.
While the Music Ed affair was going 
on, there was also extant a committee to 
review the GSIA Administration and 
Management Science undergraduate cur­
riculum (appointed by Dean Kaplan on 
November 4, 1977).
This committee was having meetings
and exchanging drafts of proposals in 
January and February.
It was astonished on March 6 when 
Dean Kaplan distributed an announce­
ment to GSIA (not to the committee or 
to the Head of the AMS Department 
who was chair of the committee) respect­
ing changes that would be made in the 
undergraduate AMS program; it said:
GSIA will not be responsible tor 
any course during a student’s first two 
years except if we decide to teach 
financial accounting in the second 
semester sophomore year. In the 
junior and senior years, we will offer a 
one-semester course in each major area 
of management. We will try to reduce 
the number of advanced AMS electives 
and encourage the students to take a 
broader set of non-AMS courses.
A one-semester course only in each 
major functional area of management 
constituted an enormous change— a very 
substantial reduction — in previous cur­
riculum offerings!
[Advertising Age recently advised its 
readers that “according to National Hot 
Dog and Sausage Council rules, the term 
‘foot-long’ may be applied to any frank 
that exceeds eight inches.”]
Subsequently we learned that specific 
agreements had been made at two meet­
ings of administrators, January 21, 1978 
(Attendance: R. Kaplan, R. M. Cyert, 
A. R. Weber, H. A. Simon, E. R. Schatz, H. 
Toor, R. Van Horn, J. P. Crecine) and 
February 14, 1978 (Attendance; R.
Kaplan, A. R. Weber, J. P. Crecine).
I quote from their “agreement”:
3. Specific AMS course requirements
for the junior and senior years of the
program:
a. The specific courses required 
shall be fewer in number than 
are presently required.
b. Courses shall focus on funda­
mental concepts and approaches 
rather than operational detail, 
(e.g., courses like Finance II, 
Production II and Marketing II 
are to be dropped as require­
ments and, perhaps, offered only 
occasionally as electives).
This was not obtained by the Cur­
riculum Committee until March 7, 1978,
to faculty
although it is obvious that it was 
authority for Dean Kaplan’s March 6 
announcement.
Fait accompli.
I have resigned as Department “Head.” 
See: Weisband and Franck, Resignation in 
Protest, Grossman, 1975. Members of the 
curriculum committee see no further 
reason to meet.
Procedurally, what has happened were 
indignities contemptous of the faculty 
curriculum committee, the Head of the 
Department, and future management stu­
dents; but also these events demonstrated 
that the discussions and resolutions then 
going on in the Faculty Senate respecting 
proper procedures for changes in curricu­
lum were entirely disregarded by the 
administrators.
Substantively, the result is a tragic 
diminution of the undergraduate mange- 
ment offerings. (How about a Physics 
Department which offers only Physics I?) 
We had built a Department that was in 
high demand by students. Prospective 
employers were getting the word and
were offering employment at exceptional 
starting pay. In just the past two years 
our accounting students have ben ad­
mitted to the Pennsylvania C.P.A. exam 
immediately upon graduation because of 
the advanced courses they have been able 
to take. Our undergraduate management 
curriculum was one of the very best
offered anywhere. It was an excellent 
education for management. We had
graduated exceptionally prepared people. 
The program attracted applicants to the 
University; it made money return for the 
University; it had become important to 
the University. All this was changed in 
autocratic, surreptitious haste in order,
perhaps, to make more money by offer­
ing less — an eight-inch “foot-long” hot 
dog — to each future undergraduate 
tuition-paying student.
To whom will this be done next?
- Thomas M. Kerr
[I am quite aware that setting out 
these details will be regarded as quixotic. 
As John Kenneth Galbraith remarks 
respecting folks voluntarily imprisoned in 
large corporations (which CMU is begin­
ning to remarkably resemble*): “ . . . the 
sanctions for speaking in conflict with the 
corporate perception of truth, if subtle, 
are severe: those so disposed may be 
praised for their character but they are 
not promoted. That over time becomes 
expensive.” The New York Review of 
Books, April 20, 1978, p. 6.* But one 
must be able to make report to one’s 
close family and few friends and students, 
and live with oneself.]
TMK
* When Faculty Senate President Joe 
Art man recently spoke to the CMU Board 
of Tnistees, where corporate types 
abound, the Board was astonished by his 
candor. They are not used to such frank­
ness. People in corporations don't talk 
like that, are not outspoken. Whatever 
Art man's actual remarks, their overall 
effect was to signal that to some of us 
this is still an academy where there 
should be a robust give and take of views.
I have resigned as Department "Head.
Dorm damage 
fund created
The following is a message to the 
University community from Bill Dillon, 
Director of Auxiliary Services, concerning 
a new program designed to help minimize 
property damage in the Residence Halls:
I am pleased to announce the following 
program intended to reduce property dam­
age in the residence halls:
Effective with academic year 1978-79, 
the housing operation will place in a special 
fund $100,000 of its budget now required 
for the restoration of unusual wear and 
tear and direct damage caused by students 
to the residence halls. When an individual 
or group of individuals can be identified as 
responsible for the damage, we will con­
tinue the present policy of collecting the 
cost of restoration directly from them. All 
other damages will be charged to this 
fund. At the end of the academic year any 
money -left in the fund will be returned to 
the residents as a cash refund. This could 
amount to as much as $50.00 per resident.
All damages will be reviewed by a stu- 
dent-staff panel on a weekly basis. The 
panel will be responsible for trying to un­
derstand and reduce the causes of this 
heavy annual cost and to reduce careless 
behavior by publicizing its cost to the res­
idents. Three CMU students will be hired 
to investigate all incidents as they occur 
and prepare reports for the Property Pre 
vention Panel.
Students interested in commenting on 
or obtaining more details of this plan, or 
students interested- in working approxim­
ately ten hours a week (for pay) as an in­
vestigator for this group should contact 
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Services 
301 Warner Hall or call campus extensio:; 
205 1. Photo by Ramanan
Dillon speaks about dorm damage.
• Iron City
• Schlitz
• Bud
• Koehler
• Strohs
• Genesee
• Rolling Rock
• Hop 'n Gator
• Schlitz Malt
• Ballantine Ale
• Rheingold
• Miller Light
• Michelob
• Pabst
• Miller
• Colt 45
• Genesee Cream Ale
• Busch
• Duke
• Schmidts
• Champale
featuring 22 Varieties of Steak Subs 
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM 2 PM
Quarts — Mugs — Pitchers
One different 16-oz. 6 pk. featured each week
SCHLITZ SCHMIDTS PABST
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Spec,at,y Items: FRESH CUT FRENCH fRIES ' PIZZA SERVED'TIL 3 AM
Hot Dogs—Choice of 12 Different Condiments 
35 Varieties of Sandwiches
621-7388
HOT OK SHOPS. «C.
3901 FORBES AVE. (OAKLAND) 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
v>OOOOPOOOQOOOOOOOOOOQOOtfQOOOOOOOOOOOOQQQQOQQQOOOBQOQOOOOQOQOOOOOOOQQOOOOOOflOeOOOM
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

April 25, 1978-TARTAN—pase 5
Housing shortage denied
by Scott Nicholas
With all the talk of housing problems 
in recent years, many false rumours con­
tinue to lurk about. In fact, there is one 
currently to the effect that there will 
be 200 more freshmen coming in next 
fall than can be accomodated. Gerald 
Dalton, Housing Director, claims this 
to be an absolute falsehood. He insists 
that Housing foresees no shortages what­
soever for the coming fall-term—that 
all freshmen and returning upperclassmen 
will be housed.
It is understandable that such rumours 
still persist given the fact that most 
students either experienced or heard about 
the calamity of 1975. In this year an un­
heard of, and unpredictably great, number 
of prospective freshmen accepted to come 
to CMU. This Class of ’79—what might be 
termed ‘the wave’—caused many unforesee­
able problems for the educational insti­
tutions through which they passed. This 
was solely attributable to their size. Most 
of these students came out of their high 
schools as one of the largest graduating 
classes. At CMU they forced Housing 
to place many of them in an ‘overflow 
bin’—Hotel Webster Hall. Classes were 
over-crowded in many departments and 
the competition in many, such as Archi­
tecture, grew stiffer.
Sanford Rivers, Associate Director of 
Admissions, claims that generally speaking 
the size of the incoming classes can be 
predicted to within a dozen either way. 
The new dorm complex up on ‘the hill’ 
is due to be completed and ready for 
inhabitance by the fall semester of 1979.
DISTINCTIVE FlflWERS AND GIFTS
4705 CENTRE A/ENUE N GAKIAND 
PITTSBURGH F*. 15213 4126874200
TROPICAL 
PHOTO WORKSHOP 
MIAMI BEACH 
JULY ’78
7 DAYS/6 NIGHTS $465*Intensive field and workshop training to bring new expertise to your photography techniques. Known professionals provide personal and practical instruction: film and camera, portraits and figure, travel and nature. Photo field trips.______
* Single Rate, Double Occupancy. 
Includes hotel, Modified American 
Plan, parties. Free, daily film 
processing provided.
Write for detailed brochure and 
reservation forms:
PHOTOTOURS, DEPT. 36 
7745 S.W. 33 TER., MIAMI,
FLA. 33155. PH: (305) 446-5764
This will provide the subtle growth of the 
University as well as alleviate some of the 
problems of upperclassmen, who have 
in recent years tended to move off campus. 
The 16-person units will clear the sororities 
out of Morewood which will open up the 
doubles and triples they now occupy. 
The 4 and 8 person units, based on the 
past success of the ‘co-ops’ and E-tower 
apartments, are predicted to appeal to 
upperclassmen.
In the past upperclassmen could make 
the financially prudent move to nearby 
apartments, but now the prices of them 
have skyrocketed and on-campus housing 
has become more appealing. Keeping these 
students on campus may result in several 
mutually beneficial ends. Students will 
save some money as well as gain the 
advantages of a closer proximity; Housing cc 
may, in the long run, take in greater jT 
revenues; and the campus community may 2 
gain greater cohesiveness with less people £ 
living in the transient living arrangements.
Gerald Dalton, Housing Director, claims housing shortage problem is non-existent.
MBHA dk ¦¦¦¦¦ <¦¦¦¦ ^80^.PhD s in EE or CS: Now you can have it all at TIin BIG D.
We are the Equipment Group of Texas Instruments.We re talking to PhD’s in EE or CS about opportunities as systems Engineers and Digital Hardware/Software Designers.Now you can have it all.
Advanced Work In State-Of-The-Art Fields.These are projects in design and development that will utilize Tl’s industry-leading technology in many fields:• Electro-optical sensors • Radar • Air traffic control • Navigation • Communications • ASW• Weapon guidance • Fire control
The Stability Of A Highly Diversified 
Company.Since 1946, TI has maintained a compound average growth rate of more than 23% In net sales and net income.In 1977, net sales billed for government elec­tronics increased 19% over 1976.TI is, and always has been, a company man­aged by engineers and scientists. Its commit­ment to research and development was backed
up by a $96 million invest­ment in 1977 alone, a 33% increase over 1976.TI facilities now include 45 manufacturing plants in 18 countries and 50 product distribution centers in North America, Europe and Asia.
A Rich City WHh A Low Cost Of Living.Dallas is Tl‘s home town. It's the heart of the South- west's largest and liveliest metro center—the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. It is rich in culture, entertainment and environmental advantages. These include two civic opera companies, the World Champion Dallas Cowboys, the cleanest air and the lowest population density of any of the largest U.S. metro areas. The area also has 34 colleges and 102 major medical facilities.At the same time, Dallas is an unusually affordable place to live. There are no state and local income taxes. And the cost of living is 9% below the U.S. average.
It’s all at H in Big D waiting for you.Send your rssume to Ed Haynes,Box 6015, MS 222, Dallas, TX 75222.
Aplic atconsdptoc
INCORPORATED 
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

TARTANOur generation and the Holocaust
This past week, we huddled around our television seis­
in Morewood, Hammerschlag, Donner, McGill, Mudge. We 
quietly witnessed the inhumanity of the past-Berlin, Babii- 
Yar, Auchwitz, Warsaw. And during the commercials, we 
spoke of the things that matter to us. We complained about 
the homework we were ignoring, about the tests we should 
be studying for, about the worthlessness of the advertise­
ments we were digesting. But when "Holocaust” began 
again, we dosed our mouths and couldn't help but open our 
eyes. The program was designed for our generation.
We are the Lucky Generation. Our biggest problems are 
sore throats, family quarrels, and "the future job”. Our 
complaints are about the quality of food rather then the 
need for food. Suffering and hell are part of our vocabulary, 
but not part of our lifestyle because our suffering is in our 
minds, not our bellies.
Yet, we watched this story of the unbelievable Nazi 
atrocities and we accepted it. We watched without question, 
knowing that the story dealt with a world that wasn’t ours. 
It all happened 10 to 20years before we were born. And of 
course, we won't deny it happened. We know that it did. 
And yes, it was awful. We’ll admit it. And no, NO, we won’t 
let it happen again. We know better.
Not only are we the Lucky Generation, we’re also the 
Overly-ideological generation.
How would we prevent something like the Holocaust 
from happening again ? Here on our enclosed campus, our 
discussions center on the barbarism of our professors rather 
than the tyranny in the world. We rarely read the news­
papers, and when we do, we have no comment. The 
students of the sixties might have gone overboard with their 
protests and concern, but they had an acute awareness where 
we have apathy. Apathy in the 1940’s, just one generation 
before us, is what allowed the Holocaust to grow and con­
tinue. Very few spoke out. Very few had compassion.
Although Americans who lived through the era might 
now deny that they knew anything about the extermina­
tions and concentration camps while the atrocities were 
being committed, they could have known all during the war. 
The information was at their doorstep and they did nothing.
The New York Times in 1942 printedan article with the 
headline, “1,000,000 Jews slain by Nazis" that continued 
by stating that Jews were being shot by firing squads at the 
rate of 1,000 a day. By 1943, The Times reported 2,000,000 
had been killed. By 1944, the Times figure was up to 5.5 
million. American readers just kept turning the pages of 
their newspapers. And millions died.
In 1943, Reader’s Digest printed an article that detailed 
how the Nazis economically used tanks to run over Jewish 
women and children in an effort to save their bullets. That 
same year, Newsweek published an article that reported 
how the Germans dug gaping holes and then machine 
gunned their victims into mountainous stacks that took 
days to burn.
In August, 1944, Life published explicit and horrifying 
pictures of thousands of bodies found after the Russians 
entered Lublin concentration camp. Colliers and Saturday 
Evening Post ran feature pieces dealing with what the Post 
called “Nazi Murder Factories. ”
The knowledge was available all during the war and 
Americans literally did nothing.
So why are we the generation that needed to see "Holo­
caust”? Shouldn’t our apathetic parents and grandparents, 
who are partly responsible for the crime, have been made to 
witness what they refused to stop? Yes, they should have, 
but we were the more important viewers.
Our parents are the generation of the past, and we are 
the generation of the future. We will be the leaders of 
America. The better grade and the better job are important 
to us, and should be. But let us not forget the better world. 
And after seeing a program like “Holocaust", let us make a 
pledge for the present and future, that such ignorance and 
apathy should never happen again.
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-In-Chief
Letters
Suicide Attempt 
Editor:
I’ve watched from afar as the 
English Department, under the 
dubious auspices of Acting De­
partment head Ann Hayes, has set 
about dismantling A1 Goldman’s 
superb course, “The Art of Per­
suasion.” At first, I was aghast, 
then outraged, finally disgusted at 
the ludicrous nature of this act­
ion. Al’s classes were the finest I 
had in four years of college, im­
mensely educational, overtly re­
warding; they require no defense. 
In removing what Ms. Hayes views 
as a blemish on the face of the 
body literate, she is cutting off 
her own head at the neck. It is 
simply inexcusable by anybody’s 
standards to ax the best class on 
campus.
Overwhelmed as I was by the 
absurdity of the situation, I was 
pleased to see the Tartan take up 
the cause of this noble course 
(April 11). I wish to commend 
Tartan for this timely bit of re­
porting and urge one and all to 
continue the fine work.
It is unthinkable that this state 
of affairs can be allowed to stand. 
Al’s students, past, present and 
future, must make it clear to Ms. 
Hayes that such capricious and 
willful action will not be tolerat­
ed. Students have a voice; now 
must it be raised. If this means 
that the department chairperson 
will be buried in bombast, it’s no 
more than she deserves. Her ac­
tion is misguided and inexcusable.
John Vorhaus, 
Class of ‘77, 
Boston
Cut the Cost
Editor:
Concerning the activities fee. It 
seems that there is a general dis­
satisfaction among the campus 
community over the size of this 
fee and especially over its alloca­
tion. No one is happy about all 
aspects of the budget.
I think that we could avoid the 
entire problem. Let each campus 
organization desiring funds esta­
blish a budget for the year. These 
organizations could then start a 
fund raising drive to meet their
budget. If they could raise enough 
funds to operate, fine. If not, the 
organization could fail. This is 
good. Why should you and I pay 
for an organization that we don’t 
want to support? Other organiza­
tions such as the TARTAN would 
charge a small fee for their service 
if they prefer. Let the clubs of 
CMU establish their worth by at­
tracting our support. The compe­
tition would leave only the organ­
izations you and I really care about.
Only those organizations that 
the campus felt worthwhile would 
be supported. No one would have 
cause to gripe. Democracy would 
prove most equitable.
Why do we need an organiza­
tion to tell us how our money for 
recreation should be spent? I 
would rather pay for exactly what 
I want and support only those 
who I felt would most benefit us. 
Wouldn’t you? Boycott the Activ­
ities fee! Subtract it from your 
bill for next year and save it to 
benefit those activités that interest 
you and deserve your support.
Martin Beavor 
Steve Hagaman
________TARTAN_______
Volume 78 \ Apri, 25, 1978 Number 27
Editor-In-Chief:Jeffrey Zaslow
Managing Editors:Saul Carliner
Ellen J. Silverman
Business Manager:Stephanie Waite
News Editors:Jean Pellegrini
Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Linda Deak
Assistant News & Features EditorElliot Ohlberg
Entertainment Editor:Joan Livitski
Folio Editor:K.A. Yaksich
Sports Editor:Ed Sullivan
Photography Editor:V.R.V. Ràmanan
Production Manager:Timothy Wenk
Assistant News Editor: Mike Snizek
Assistant Photography Editor: Skip Brazelton
Assistant Features Editor: John Golec
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50 (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
Quick Judgments
Editor:
Let me recommend that before 
you write critical editorials you 
have the courtesy to make at least 
one telephone call to the person 
or group against which you are 
about to publicize a complaint.
In your April 18 editorial “Re­
vamp Registration” you imply 
that the Mechanical Engineering 
Department did something unfair 
to the junior class in its scheduling 
of Thermodynamics II and ASEII. 
The complaint is that some ju­
niors were forced to take these 
courses in reverse order but the 
fact is that there is no preferred 
order for these two courses.
If you will look at the current 
catalogue under the course des­
criptions on pages 217 and 226, 
you will see that Thermodyna­
mics II is second semester course 
and that ASE II is a first semester 
course. Until the fall of 1977 they 
were taught in that order.
During the preparation of the 
current catalogue, the Department 
decided that staffing problems 
might be simplified if Thermody­
namics II were taught in the fall. 
The curriculum page was changed 
to show it in the fall. However, 
by the fall of 1977 the junior class 
was too large for the entire class 
to take Thermodynamics II at one 
time, because of limited labora­
tory facilities.
So in the fall of 1977 it was 
arranged that half the juniors 
would take Thermodynamics II in 
the fall and half would take ASE II. 
In the spring of 1978 the two 
halves switched courses. Since the 
order in which these courses are 
taken does not matter, there were 
no difficulties and no complaints.
This year, with another large 
junior class, we continued offering 
both courses in the fall and in the 
spring, in order to divide the ju­
nior class in half. At registration 
it turned out that many juniors 
wanted to take Thermodyna­
mics II in the fall and so the forty 
available places were taken 
quickly.
The remaining students had to
take ASE II in the fall but they
were being asked to do only what
was the standard pattern for the
entire junior class ud to 1977 and is still the standard pattern for
half the class. We do not feel that 
this deserves the criticism for mis­
management of registration as 
implied by your ¦iditorial.
I would also caution you about 
your enthusiasm for arena regis­
tration. To the extent that there 
are long lines and confusion now, 
all that arena registration does 
is to put the long lines and con­
fusion into one room. I know 
because we did it that way for 
many years in the gymnasium and 
the chaotic scene in the gym was 
worse than anything that you see 
now in departmental registration.
The departments have difficul­
ty in getting people to work in the 
gym all day long. Department 
representatives in the gym are cut 
off from getting quick answers 
from headquarters. No student 
records are there. The gym is tied 
up for two days, all for no useful 
purpose. The disadvantages of 
arena registration became so ob­
vious that it was abandoned many
years ago. Those who will not 
study history are condemned to 
repeat it.
Your real concern should be 
not with where registration is 
done but with how to assign 
places in sections which are pre­
ferred because of their scheduled 
time or a popular instructor. 
There are always going to be stu­
dents who must take a Friday 
afternoon class under a graduate 
assistant.
The present system of first 
come first served could be modi­
fied by a system of lottery (time 
assignment) but that is unfair to 
groups of students who like to do 
things together. The problem of 
fairness in assigning preferred 
places does need continuing study 
but we must be careful not to 
come up with some annoying 
complex and time-consuming plan 
that really does nothing more 
than distribute student unhap­
piness in some different way.
Walton Forstall
Professor of Mech. Engineering 
Associate Head
Last week, we neglected to 
commend certain departments on 
their efforts to simplify registra 
tion. To shorten their registration 
line, the AMS Department pre­
registered its majors. The Mathe­
matics and Mechanical Engineer­
ing Departments were among 
those who allowed students to 
sign class lists themselves, which 
freed secretaries from the task, 
and helped eliminate lines. And 
the English Department ran three 
registration lines to help speed 
things up. However, we still feel 
these measures are only tempo­
rary solutions to the registration 
problem.
Managing Editor 
Hats Off!
Editor:
I would like to make the cam­
pus aware of a group of highly de­
dicated students, staff, faculty 
and alumni. These people are 
members of the Tech Radio Club, 
W3VC. This group has provided 
professional type communications 
for activités on and off campus.
Waking up as early as five in 
the morning, they provided a vital 
safety and control function for 
free rolls and buggy races. Note, 
these people are usually not 
members of any buggy organizat­
ion and have no direct interest in 
this campus function. Freezing, 
they gave their time to the Parks 
Commission for a set of cross 
country ski races. W3VC, active 
during the summer, operated a 
key station during the Johnstown 
flood emergency. In addition the 
Radio Club has organized a trial 
escort service.
Each operator may invest hun­
dreds of dollars, or as little as 
twenty, in his equipment and 
training while obtaining minimal 
support form the University. With 
enthusiastic support from the 
Electrical Engineering Department 
this is an exciting organization 
and deserves a long delayed: 
THANK YOU.
Philip Thompson WB2EWB/3 
Buggy Communications Officer 
for W3VC
Libyan Visitors 
Editor:
Many CMU students probably 
have wondered what is special 
about the Libyan students. There 
are plenty of other foreign nation­
alities represented at CMU; why 
do the Libyans have student hosts? 
Why are the Libyans deliberately 
assigned American roommates? In 
short, why aren’t the Libyan stu­
dents here treated just as Japanese, 
East Indian, or French students? 
One reason is the group nature of 
the Libyan program—the ten stu­
dents here were sent as a unit by 
their government. Another more 
important reason is the the Lib­
yans, just as Japanese or Indian 
students, must go through a diffi­
cult period of adjustment to 
American life. But in addition, 
the Libyans, as Middle Easterners, 
experience a different kind of cul­
tural shock than other foreign stu­
dents upon arrival. To help the 
.Libyans adjust more quickly, CMU 
students should make an effort 
to extend themselves.
Until recently, most foreign 
students came from western coun­
tries, or those that have had a sub­
stantial amount of western influ­
ence. But, since the sudden Arab 
oil wealth, many Middle Eastern 
governments have shown an inter­
est in sending students to study in 
the United States. Although Libya 
was occupied by Italy until World 
War II, few traces of western in­
fluence remain. Americans often 
underestimate the problems inher­
ent in Libyan students’ first ex­
posure to western culture. The 
basis for cultural difference is the 
Islamic religion, around which 
Libyan social and family customs 
are centered.
The unique design of the 
Libyan program, then, is precipi­
tated by these students’ needs to 
understand and adjust to anew and 
unfamiliar way of life. To meet 
their government's high expecta­
tions of academic performance, the 
Libyans must develop their English 
skills and adjust to American life 
quickly. Douglas Coutts, Assistant 
to the Director of the Translation 
Center, considers housing in dorms 
with American roommates to be a 
very effective way to help the Lib­
yans meet these requirements. It 
guarantees them opportunity for 
daily practice in conversational 
English and throws them into the 
crux of American student life, 
for better or for worse.
Another reason for housing the 
Libyans in dormitories is simply 
that they are here in a college pre­
paratory program and therefore are 
being treated as any other fresh­
men in this university. Other 
foreign students who live off cam­
pus are usually upperclassmen, if 
not graduate students.
Equally important as interac­
tion with roommates, however, is 
the Libyan students’ need to feel 
patience, understanding, and- re­
spect from the CMU community 
for their cultural differences. Con­
trary to the beliefs of many, the 
Libyans here are not particularly 
politically conscious-no more so 
than the average CMU freshman 
engineer. They are generally proud 
of their heritage and like to talk
about home. They adapt quickly 
and are agreeable and easy to get 
along with. In fact, by custom, 
Libyans are formal and polite in 
social relationships and will rarely 
openly criticize another person. 
Unfortunately, some of their 
roommates take advantage of this 
situation.
You don’t need to be a host to 
talk to a Libyan. They are eager 
for American students to take 
them places, and love a good time 
as much as any other healthy col­
lege student. Besides, there is a 
great deal for us to gain by meet­
ing and interacting with the Lib­
yans, or any-foreign students. 
The opportunity to meet peers 
from other countries and cultures 
is one of the advantages in coming 
to a university; it is part of a 
university education. Few of us 
will ever again have the chance to 
develop a relationship with a Lib­
yan on such a free and informal 
basis as is now present. If you 
would like to meet the Libyans 
and learn more about them, stop 
by the Translation Center, second 
floor Baker Hall.
Trudie Alcott, GSIA
The Good Old Days 
Editor:
I am currently an alumnus of 
Carnegie-Mellon who, as an under­
graduate student, was involved in 
the participation of my organiza­
tion in the buggy races. I am 
writing this letter as a request to 
next year’s campus buggy organ­
ization to return to the format of 
having the top three finishers on 
Friday participate in a single finals 
race with the next 3 finishers 
participating in a race for 4th, 
5th, and 6th places.
My reasons for requesting this 
change include: 1) I understand 
that this year’s format of 2-buggy 
heats was derived to enhance 
safety, that is, avoid accidents. In 
my first 9 years of viewing buggy, 
starting in 1967 and running 
through 1975 when the last 1-2-3 
finals were scheduled, there has 
not been an accident in the finals. 
There have been 3 rain-outs in 
that time, but in no instance has 
there been an accident or re-run 
called for. One consolation heat, 
involving a buggy and 2 bikes, 
during that period did have an 
accident. I therefore question the 
basis for assuming that 2-buggy 
heats are safer. In one year there 
has been one accident, albeit 
minor, with a resulting rerun. I 
commend the safety chairmen’s 
accomplishments over the past 
few years, but I seriously doubt 
that altering the finals format 
enhances safety. 2) With the ap­
pearance of the 1-3-5 and 2-4-6 
format used in 1976 and attempt­
ed in 1977 the races took a slightly 
different look from years before. 
Now the element of racing against 
the clock became important on the 
second day. This year the “com­
petitive” nature of the races was, 
in my estimation, nearly elimin­
ated. As an undergraduate one of 
the things which I dreaded most 
was a rainout on Friday requiring 
that the preliminaries, moved to 
Saturday, would determine a 
“time-based” champion. Although
Saturday rain-outs do accomplish 
this, one does not normally enter 
race-day with the impression that 
time is the only factor involved 
in determining the champion. This 
year the finals became such a ‘time- 
oriented’ event. Friday’s prelimin­
aries are generally set up to avoid 
confrontations between major 
powers and allow basically “free- 
rolling” time trials. The best buggy 
in each heat generally leads from 
start to finish and is given an ex­
cellent chance to display its team’s 
ability without interference from 
other buggies. I see the second 
day as something different. Here 
the finalists are pitted against 
each other, and the true aspect of 
racing is seen. The use of time 
trials as a determining factor is 
not unlike watching a series of 
Sunday morning free-rolls. Let 
Friday be time-oriented and let 
Saturday be head-to-head compet­
ition-oriented.
3) I am aware that there remains 
a certain air of controversy in­
volving possible interference with 
one buggy by a non-participating 
member of another organization. 
It seems to me that the use of the 
1-2-3 finals would eliminate such 
events from occurring. In the 
1-2-3 set-up one could seriously 
jeopardize his own first team’s 
position with such interference 
whereas in this year’s race only the 
second team would be involved.
In conclusion I think that a 
return to the 1-2-3 finals format 
will achieve or maintain several 
positive goals. It will remove the 
total concentration on times, and 
accent the idea of head-to-head 
competition. At the same time I 
would suggest that safety would 
not be jeopardized. I would ask 
next year’s committee to seriously 
consider returning to the old 
format.
S. E. Lionel
Oppose JROTC 
Editor:
A three year program of high 
school military training, JROTC, 
is being proposed to the board of 
education. This program is run by 
the armed forces and would sup­
posedly be a ‘‘public service” to 
the community. It is a statewide 
proposal and the certification is­
sue will be up for a final vote by 
the board in May.
JROTC should not be accepted 
as a training program. Parents and 
students who want this training 
have access to private military aca­
demies. If such a unit is installed, 
each school will have to pay $10,-
000 to $20,000 per year. JROTC 
will expose students to weapons- 
handling. For example, Frankford 
High School in Philadelphia 
learn how to use M-l’s at the 
Frankford Arsenal. This kind of 
training has NO PLACE in public 
education!
More information about 
JROTC can be obtained at the 
Friends Meeting House on Ells­
worth Ave. 682-9495. The Meet­
ing will have a list of state board 
members who you can write to 
and protest this proposal.
Annie Patterson

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
Student Appointment 
Editor:
The article submitted by Stuart 
Seidman, headed: “Search com­
mittee excludes students”, which 
appears of page 6 of the TARTAN, 
is not correct. The Department of 
Architecture Head Search Com­
mittee met for the first time on 
April 10th and voted to appoint 
a student member to the commit­
tee. The committee has instructed 
me, as chairman, to make this
appointment; and the appointment 
will be made within the next day 
or two.Robert S. Taylor 
i Acting Head 
Department of Architecture
Housing Caution
Editor.
Thinking about moving off 
campus? Well, think twice...
In an effort to avoid the noise 
of a dormitory with 53 people per 
floor (such things as "dogpiling” 
and ‘'horseshoes’- at two in the 
morning). 1 moved off campus last
year. We found a great apartment 
with everything you’d ever want— 
a dishwasher, disposal, and a very 
reasonable price. Coming from a 
small conservative town, 1 had no 
idea how bad a “questionable” 
neighborhood could get. Three 
weeks after I moved in, my car 
battery was stolen. So I began 
parking in a better lighted area. A 
few months later my antenna was 
snipped off. A small thing. I 
thought. The next month I came 
out to find the back corner smash­
ed in. I was beginning to get de­
pressed about my living situation.
But there was more to come. Last 
week I went out to my car and 
found a note inside that the police 
had caught a black person break­
ing into my car. So I went to 
court, but the case ended up be­
ing dismissed. I figured the kid 
had learned his lesson. This week 1 
went out to my car, found the 
vent window broken, the dash­
board cracked and the ignition 
mangled. I guess I’m lucky it was 
there at all. Maybe living on cam­
pus isn't that bad after all. But 
here’s the catch—once you’ve 
moved off campus, you’re off for
good. Housing gives incoming 
freshmen higher priority than off 
campus students. So, it looks like 
I’m living out on the street next 
year. Housing, you're really mes­
sed up. The least you could do is 
provide us with a thorough list of 
safe places to live...and don’t refer 
me to that little box at the Infor­
mation Desk-you can toss that 
out the window. A suggestion to 
fellow students—don’t ever move 
off campus unless you want to 
stay there for good.
Jeffrey S. FreemanANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS
general
Two Honeywell Pentax single lens reflex
cameras for sale. Each camera comes with 
a 55 mm. standard lens (Takumar). The 
lenses have maximum aperture ratings 
of f/1.8 and f/2. The f/2 lens is quite new; 
the bodies and the f/1.8 lens are old. The 
camera with the f/2 lens for $50 and the 
camera with the f/1.8 lens for $40. If you 
are a part time photography buff or plan to 
be one soon, these dirt cheap SLRs will get 
you started fine. Beat the rush and call 
578-2111 or leave a message for the Photo­
graphy Editor in the TARTAN office. The 
cameras will be sold on a first come first 
served basis.
EPISCOPAL SERVICES schedule: Prayers,
noon Mondays and Wednesdays. Euch­
arist. Thursdays at 1:00 PM except May II. 
Eucharist is led by Fr. Jonathan Appfeyard 
Episcopal chaplain for CMU. Everyone is 
welcome to join us in Skibo Room 39. 
Call X2794 for information.
Tennis Pros and Assistant Pros—Seasonal
and year-round clubs; good playing and 
teaching background. Call (301)-654- 
3770, or send 2 complete resumes and 2 
pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 
Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy 
Chase. MD 20015.
The Fool and his Vision. A celebration of
storytelling, sound poetry, puppets, sign 
language, ritual making and clowning. 
Friday, April 28, 8:00 PM. $2.00 Adults, 
$1.00 children. Pay at the door. Members 
V2 price. Show your membership card at 
the door. Fee includes admission to the 
Exploratorium. For more information, call 
687-0900.
MEDICAL SCHOOL APPLICANTS:
AMCAS packets are available from A. Jf 
Streiff in DH 2114. All applicants for 
medical school class entering Fall 1979 
should obtain a packet as soon as possible 
and discuss the procedure for application 
with premedical advisor.
THE ALTERNATIVE Coffee House will 
feature Tom Shaffer, Folk guitarist,playing 
"Modern Folk Music in the American 
Tradition,” on Friday, April 28. THE 
ALTERNATIVE is located in the Lutheran 
University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland, and is open each Friday night 
from 8 PM through Midnight. For inform­
ation, call 682-6886.
Robert "Buzz" Berger, producer of the
nine-hour TV production, "Holocaust,” 
will speak at the Jewish Community 
Center, 315 S. Beliefield Avenue on Wed­
nesday, April 26 at 8 PM.
William Shatner fans. Limited number of 
Shatner "live” albums available. Call 
687-3377 after 4 PM.
Monty Python and the Holy Grail will be
shown in the Chapel at Chatham this Fri­
day. Admission is $1.
Overweight? Having trouble controlling
your eating? University Overeaters Anon­
ymous meets Mondays at 7:30 at the Uni­
versity and City Ministries Building, Fifth 
and Belief ield. No dues or fees. We care.
Counselors, over 19 for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun­
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of following: Watersafety, Waterskiing,
Arts & Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, 
Athletics, Lacrosse, Riflery, Ham Radio, 
Rocketry, Science, Archery, Track, Tennis, 
Golf, or Pioneering, Write Camp Dir­
ector, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette 
Hill, Pa. 19444.
College Days with the Pittsburgh Pirates
continues this Friday when students with 
valid I.D. entering at Gate D can see the 
Bucks pfay the San Fransisco Giants for 
just $1.00.
Star Trek fans. New anti-hero fanzine
available. For information call 687-3377 
after 4 PM.
Musician needed-paid position available
with Park Players. Sax/reed player with
"EXIT INTERVIEWS" FOR ALL MAY,
1978 GRADUATES with National Defense 
/Direct Student Loans and/or Institutional 
Loans will be held from April 14th to April 
28th. The interviews will last approximately 
five minutes and will be scheduled as 
follows:
CASHIER'S OFFICE 
WARNER HALL CONCOURSE
M, T, W, Th, F 9:00 AM to 1:00 PM
&
2:00 PM to 4:00 PM 
If unable to attend or for more information 
call Mr. Rapin—578-2094 or come to the 
Cashier's Office, Warner Hall Concourse. 
The Forbes Street Gallery, 5200 Forbes 
Avenue, will present the works of Jenny 
Haberman, Mike Hoffman, and Donna 
Kuby {graphic design, prints) through 
April 30. The Gallery is open 12-4 PM 
Wednesday-Sunday, and 7-9 PM Tues­
day-Thursday. ' ft ;
A variety of free nature films are offered 
every Saturday afternoon by the Carnegie 
museum of Natural History. The films are 
shown at 1 PM in the Lecture Hall. This 
Saturday's film is "Way of Trout”, a trout 
life cycle film.
Summer Sublet. Male/female roommate
jazz background. Ten weeks, full time war|ted to share Shadyside, air-conditioned 
employment. Contact Charles Gilbert: two-bedroom apartment. May 15-Aug.31, 
323-2230 or 322-8304. with May's rent paid. 665-1208.
V-.v-J*..1 -.VJ-»-. * ¿:,\fCAFEST TA F A
î^Nn,mKK,mvji>
HAPPY 2Cn BimMYfff
iiOrnài
rrr
Alm,M UCE, MREN
• —i - ilhi. ¦»-¿a -til mk h
h
rAuJUET
E
Seniors: want to keep up with the news 
at CMU after graduation? 
Subscribe now to the TARTAN. 
Only $10 a year.
Name: . 
Address:
TARTAN 
Box 17 CMU 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

&
Tartan Bulletin Board
Vf,v*...v: 'V«;¦ -sev.-vv£T>'vSV7 V^'“
Apartment to sublet May 15th - Sep­
tember 1 Large, beautifully furnish |
one bedroom apt. ‘(Morewood 
Employed grad student or prof.
person (s) desired. Rent negotiable.]
578-2381 or 687-2467. (eves,
weekends).
HELP WANTED: RENTAL AGENT for
Shadyside area to show and rent apart­
ments, full time position for the summer, 
some clerical, must have car, liberal salary 
plus commission and allowances. Apart­
ment provided if needed. '682-7010
For rent starting in either May or Sep-j
tember. Oakland area. Furnished rooms 
with use of kitchen and bath. Two to four 
bedroom apartments. From $85.00' up,| 
plus utilities. Call 481 -4289 after 6.
I give up. Maybe I'm better off not know­
ing what I'm missing. J.R.R.
andlSublet w/ option. 2 bedroom. Contact
Charlie or Ed: 421-2694.
LOST: Steel dagger. Last seen at Juried
¡Art Show in F.A. Loge 10" long. Not worth 
i reward, but I do like it. Send to John Rose 
1057 Morewood Ave. (PLP frat).
¡The TARTAN is opening its Classified
¡Fence to the CMU community for ten 
¡dollars. The fence will be filled each week 
[on a first-come-first-served basis. Paint the 
[TARTAN fence. Call 578-2111, or leave 
ja message at the Skibo info desk, c/o the 
iTARTAN.
the College of
• nH Qnr;ai Sciences will have Humanities and Social suenu
open office hours for students from 1.30 
to 3:30 PM.
Must sell. Stereo component system» Will)
sacrifice- for $490; original cost $1295 
373-3999.
On
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: Royal Pres­
tige has summer work available. Twelve 
weeks guaranteed. $200/wk. and up. 
For more information come to Skibo 
Room 11, April 26th, 11 AM, 1 Pm, 3PM
[John Phiflips. noted photographer and
author, will discuss "A Will to Survive.! 
Faces of Terror 1948-Faces of Hope To 
i day" on Sunday, April 30, in.the Graduatel 
School of Industrial Administration audi-l 
' torium at Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Beginning at 8:15, the lecture will focus on 
two sets of his photographs, one taken in 
1948 during Israel's War of Independence, 
and the other, a set of photographs of the] 
same people ir^^7^
May 1st. Female non-smoker preferred.
Room in spacious house on S. Bouquet St. 
[with backyard, kitchen, etc. $100/month. 
I Call 681-1681.
Sublet—May-August in Oakland. 1BI
[furnished apartment. Completely carpetec 
¡and panelled. Security system. $175/moj 
iAll utilities included. Call 687-5941
Alone and Pregnant? A confidential, caring
friend. Lifeline, 341-3322. Free pregnancy 
testing available.
EUROPE: Less than % economy fare.
Guaranteed reservations. Call toll free 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent. 
UniTravel Charters.
Typewriter for sale. Used Olivetti-Under-
wood Manual (excellent condition) Call: 
W 243-0954.
RJS, It's early but HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
The summer will be over before we know 
it (I hope). - Chipmunk.
»s'and famHY¡Kings Mills, O » ^ $hoVVS De-
i entertainment ten s for new per-
[partment will bo ^ ^ ^ Thursday. Ap- 
ormers from 2 ^ Holiday Inn,
rit 27 at the Univo Philadelphia.,6th I btPj
r
Dear Spring Carnival Committee - Thanks
for all the help and fun, boy! I'm glad it's 
done unda, can you fit our booth into 
ur car? Love, Jane.
r*
ATTENTION FRESHMEN: In case you
missed Freshman Weekend or wanted 
to do it again, here's your second chance. 
A freshman picnic sponsored by SARC 
for April 29. All day activities, cook-out 
and a dance party to finish the evening 
will be held in North Park. Transportation 
will be provided. Sign up in Skibo on 
Tuesday, April 25 and Wednesday, April 
26.
; The CMU Law Club will be meeting
.Thursday, April 27 at 7 00 in Room 11
on
JOBS: If you have at least two full years
underfua¦or tun t*i 
study fernaininp, you 
While seeking your c 
you can qualify to become an 
US Army or National Guard 
call Tyrone Adderly, 578-!
) Jacqueline Smith, a Vice President of the
ABC Television Network, will be the 
j featured speaker of the 15th Annual 
Matrix Table, May 6, 1978 at the 
¡William Penn Hotel.
Summer sublet. May Aug., furnished
^ squirrel Hill apt. 1 bedroom, w/w, a/c. 
3 Call evenings, 422-9179,
S,DE '2 Ml wrth carpeting, appliances,
jone an V security, parking,furnishings if needed, sec Y ,aundry. Close to CMU. Only from $299.
RR9-7010. No pets.
Audio components, televisions, car stereos,
CB s. 200 brands. Save up to 60 %. Qill 
Rick, 673-9368.
the
garet Morrison, 2r
'artment of Military Science, Mar-
jasement.
gggggggg
Original Wedding Bands. Why buy mass-
produced rings? Have your own unique de­
sign created. Call 243-5458

---------------------------------------------------

the course,,
End of yet another Sweepstakes season.
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
final
a
The crowd enjoyed the show; The judges 
on the dais liked some of the acts;
But, one judge in the audience did not 
care much for the show,.
Right; John Juback on his acoustic guitar 
was awarded the full 30 pts. by the judges*
SPRING CARNIVAL A RETROSPECTIVE
The weekend before Carnival
CMU Sweepstakes
There were buggies off the course.....and on
There were buggies on the midway.,,..:and in the booths.
Gong Show

---------------------------------------------------

PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHY STAFF
ARTS aid CRAFTS
Long lines like these were a common 
sight on the midway.
When people djd not care to wait their 
turn at the rides, they were performing 
on the midway to interested onlookers.
Midway
or Night.
The Morning After
Photography Staff: V.R.V.Rartxnan(Editor), Mike Bergman, Skip Braze ¡ton, Marsha Fairbrother, George Lecomte, Chris Morrow, Mark Sega/

---------------------------------------------------

page 12—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
Design exhibit slated
Posters, super graphics, new products, 
illustrations and scale models of interior 
designs created by CMU students will be 
on display May 1 through May 5 in the 
lobby of the United Steelworkers building 
in downtown Pittsburgh.
The 38 projects, developed by senior 
design majors, represent a broad spectrum 
of typical professional assignments, in­
cluding a logo for the new Frick Park 
Nature Center, posters capturing the per­
sonalities of Pittsburgh Pirate ballplayers, 
and a home computer system. Exhibit 
hours are 9 AM to 4 PM, Monday through 
Friday.
This year’s show is dedicated to the 
late Richard I. Felver, professor of design 
at CMU from 1944 until shortly before his 
death in December 1977. Felver coined 
the show’s unusual title, “Aught Model of 
the Fitting,” which means, his students 
explain, “designs to fit anything.”
AIESEC pleased 
with seminar
“A Career Seminar,” the first of a series 
of career seminars sponsored by AIESEC 
was held April 10.
According to Ilene Steiner, seminar 
co-chairperson, “Looking in retrospect, 
I must admit that I was pleased with the 
results. Overall, the event was a success 
and an inspiration for future AIESEC 
programs with the campus.” 8
The seminar, held in Skibo Wherrett 
Room, attracted students from the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh and Duquesne as well 
as from CMU. “The turnout was as large 
as I hoped. The publicity was therefore 
effective,” Steiner commented.
The seminar speakers included Gerrit 
Butter, assistant Vice-President of Mellon 
Bank, talking about international hanking 
careers contrasted with the more common 
type of banking career; Dr. Peter Cannon, 
Vice-President of Science Center, Rock­
well International, on engineers in manage­
ment; Robert Kavanaugh, Managing Part­
ner of Arthur Anderson and Co., dis­
cussing the functions of an accountant 
and advise on entering the accounting 
profession; and Eric Johnson, General 
Manager of Marketing, Heinz Co«, stat­
ing special qualities employers look for in 
perspective marketing managers.
One of the highlights of the seminar 
was the question and answer period and 
informal gathering of the speakers and 
students following the talks. ;“Most 
students sampled a variety of fields (when 
talking with the speakers) while others 
tuned into one,” Steiner concluded.
Among the educational projects to be 
displayed are a therapeutic toy for autistic 
children and visual aids for a first grade 
social studies unit on Australia, complete 
with a game using kangaroos and koala 
bears. The graphic design projects include 
a logo for Phipps Conservatory and newly 
designed route maps of Pittsburgh’s PAT 
system. Other informational projects are 
a display panel designed for the Sickle Cell 
Society of Pittsburgh and pamphlets to ex­
plain surgical procedures to hospital pat­
ients.
In the area of industrial and product 
design, students have created such items as 
gourmet cooking utensils, a traffic control 
system, designs for an energy-efficient car, 
and a new concept in mobile home design 
which combines a permanent kitchen, car­
port, and utilities unit installed at mobile 
home parks with an open-floor plan mobile 
home. Environmental design students have
Were they correct?
3)Did these students not apply because 
they felt they could not afford to attend 
CMU?
4)Did the CSS Report-to-Filer discourage 
students from applying to CMU?
5)Did someone else encourage these stu­
dents not to apply to CMU? If so, who?
6)Were these students influenced not to 
apply by their view of the physical facili­
ties at CMU? If so, what was their view?
7)Where did these students apply? Where 
are they going to college?
Possible reasons for the reduction in­
clude the recent change in loan application 
procedures by the Department of Health, 
Education, and Welfare which require 
students to apply the December before 
the fall term. A student often has to de­
cide on a college before this date when in 
fact he has not heard from most colleges 
about his acceptance. As Director of Ad­
missions William Elliot stated in the April 
14 issue of Focus, “It’s like asking some­
one to decide which car he wants before 
he knows if he’s got a loan.”
Other possible reasons for the decline 
include the general reduction in graduating 
high school seniors nationwide. Demo- 
graphically, the available pool of 18-year- 
olds has fallen, and colleges around the 
country are experiencing the same pheno­
menon as CMU. The drop at CMU is more 
pronounced than the national average.
developed storefront renovations for Tur­
tle Creek, Pa., murals for a Greensburg, 
Pa. synagogue, and graphics for an auto 
showroom.
CMU Design Department Head Joseph 
Ballay explains that the students have been 
preparing the projects throughout the past 
academic year. “The purpose of the 
show,” Ballay says, “is to give students the 
opportunity to synthesize design theories 
learned in the classroom and to apply these 
principles to real world design problems 
which express their individual interests and 
philosophies.”
The United Steelworkers building is loc­
ated at 5 Gateway Center downtown. In 
addition to the regular exhibit hours, there 
will be a special reception Monday, May 1 
from 8 PM to 10 PM. Both the show and 
the reception are free and open to the 
public.
One possible reason for the drop, as de­
scribed by Elliot in the Focus article was 
the recent bad publicity about the “Rho­
desian mess, the housing shortage, the 
change in the H&SS core program, and the 
AMS situation. There are a lot of variables 
to consider.”
Elliot assures that the quality of stu­
dents accepted by the University will not 
diminish. “We just won’t be able to be as 
selective.” This situation results in what 
Elliot described as “loss of control. We 
don’t get the balance of students we’d like. 
Next year may have fewer H&SS and MIS 
students as expected.”
President's 
Piece
continued from page three
phone, Commuter Club, Explorers Club, 
Forbes Street Gallery, Jazz Ensemble, Law 
Club, Oakland Review, Radio Club, the 
Society of Automotive Engineers, Spirit, 
Tech Flying Club, WRCT, and other 
clubs—receive money on this basis. Fn 
addition, these student organizations must 
not discriminate in membership.
However, we also want our campus 
to offer an enjoyable social life. Thus, we 
have a non-partisan group, the Activities 
Board, which serves as “an official branch 
of Student Government” whose purpose is 
to “provide diverse entertainment” for 
our campus. Because we don’t want per­
haps six or eight organizations scheduling 
events at conflicting times, social events are 
supposed to be channeled only through the 
Activities Board. In addition, it is good 
to have a very professional programming 
organization organize our films, dances, 
coffeehouses, lectures, and other events.
Writing 
for the 
TARTAN 
relieves 
tension!
State grant 
deadline nears
The important May 1st filing deadline 
for students who need aid to finance 
higher education costs is quickly ap­
proaching, and students who have yet 
to do so are urged to file immediately 
for a State Higher Education Grant, 
according to the Pennsylvania Higher 
Education Assistance Agency.
Executive Director Kenneth Rc Reeher 
of PHEAA wants to remind students that 
May 1 is crucial. “After that date,” says 
Reeher, “an application for state grant 
aid will be considered late, and since 
applications received after the deadline 
are considered on a ‘funds available’ 
basis a late application may get nothing 
by way of a state grant.”
The May 1 deadline applies to all 
students wishing to renew their present 
state grant, a’s well as 1978 high school^ 
graduates planning to attend a four- 
year degree-granting college. Students 
planning to enroll at a business, trade, 
technical, or nursing school have until 
August 1, 1978, to apply for a state 
grant as do those hoping to enroll for 
non-degree courses at community col­
leges.
For 1978-79, the state grant form is 
a composite application, the completion 
of which allows the student to apply for 
both a state grant and a federal Basic 
Educational Opportunity Grant. The May 
1 and August 1 filing deadlines apply only 
to the State Grant Program. Copies of 
the State Grant/BEOG Composite Ap­
plication can be obtained from the Fi­
nancial Aid Office at CMU, any high 
school guidance counselor, or by writing 
PHEAA, Towne House, Harrisburg, Penn­
sylvania 17102.
Interaction
promoted
continued from page one
that Oliver felt might be held by many 
whites at CMU.
Despite the fact that the retreat was 
cancelled, Oliver believes that the impetus 
for improved interracial relations exists. 
Acknowledging the fact that “blacks and 
whites will never be in love with each 
other,” Oliver believes that the proposed 
retreat will definitely take place next 
Fall. “We really didn’t have much time 
to plan this. The feeling is there, that’s 
important.”
Oliver believes that the primary ob­
stacle impeding increased black-white 
interaction is one of compatible social 
events. Morewood Resident Assistant, 
Barney Wilson, discussed social interaction 
at the April 7th dinner at Oliver’s home.
‘We need more dorm parties like the 
ones held at Morewood this year. The 
Christmas Party and Casino were clearly 
interracial successes because the various 
RAs who planned the parties, planned 
for both blacks and whites. We must 
continue to do that next year.”
Dr. Oliver believes that while the plan­
ned retreat is an important first step, fur­
ther efforts must be made to promote 
racial interaction. "I teach a freshman Calc­
ulus class in a large lecture hall and next 
year 1 plan to seat the students in alpha­
betical order, the odds of blacks and whites 
sitting together increases significantly. We 
need more chances for blacks and whites 
to interact.”
Students interested in taking part in the 
planning for the proposed interracial re­
treat are urged to contact the C-MAP 
office, 4th floor. Margaret Morrison.
RING DAY Tuesday, May 2nd Bookstore
A Dieges & Clust representative will be on hand to help you select your ring from 10 A.M. - 4 P.M.
The Original C.M.U. Degree Ring 
Recognized throughout the world as
A limited number of rings are available for immediate purchase.
TUESDAY, MAY 2nd $10.00 Deposit Required
Ask about "White Precium" the money saver.
Applications down
continued from page one

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

page 14—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
YELLO W- WOMAN
Next week, FOLIO takes one final look at CMU in '"Looking Back and Looking Ahead". Noon Wednesday is the absolute deadline for this year for submissions. Also coming in next week's FOLIO- FRAT WARS!______________________^
TARTAN FOUO
APRIL 25A/OLUME ll/ISSUE 12: 
FREE-FOR-ALL
EDITOR: K.A. YAKSICH ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE ART DIRECTOR: SCOTT POLLACK
CONTRIBUTING ARTITSTS:LISA AMOWITZ VINCENT C. ASHOFF ANDREA BEIZER MORY BRENNER ANDY EPSTEIN CARLA JACKSON NEAL KUSHNER JEFFREY MARTINEZ SHEILA MELFE MATT MURRAY ZENER O'PAMP KAREN JOY RAVETS MICHAELSAFTNER NANCY M. SEUS TIO
COVER DESIGN: SCOTT POLLACK
by Andrea Beizer
I did not want her to step on my foot, but she did, that yellow-woman. I did not shout at her because she would not like me if I did. Gracefully tall, and forever wearing black skirts with patterns of flowers and greenery. I loved that yellow- woman.I knew her when I was quite young, and daddy liked her very much. He hugged her once, and I watched, standing there. I didn't like her then. She always wore a ribbon in her hair; I never wore one in mine, daddy wanted more from me.I saw her yesterday; the first time since, and wanted to enter her. She slapped my face, and said I was disgusting; but I think I'm quite hand­some, and admire myself every night. Especially since I cut off all my hair, and look quite manly.I saw her with that funny little man; quite ugly and crippled too; narrow waisted and crooked legged, body too high, and head strange.It was crowded and hot in that room where we stood; she trying to get away from me. I watched her skirt mimic the curtains as they beat in rhy­thm with the cool breeze that entered through the opened window. Smoke filled +1~ 'r, and Icoughed. Those people, smokinc - oreathing their fout breath into my face. I could not turn away, they would not like me then.The yellow-woman left my side. I was all alone so I smiled, and held out my hand to a beautiful lady with fine perfume and lips rose-red; fine eyelashes neatly placed, meant to thicken need­lessly. She pulled away from me, my manly self, insulted me. I don't love you, I wanted to say, but she would not like me if I did. So I looked into her flat green eyes, and smiled a foolish smile that only fools can bear.The hostess, a fine grey lady, was serving the egg-foo-yung, and smiled pleasantly as she did.I stood in her crowded room, on top of that richly colored rug. Vases from the Orient, and fine crystal placed out of reach; kept from me; I wanted to touch. Modern chairs meant to confuse the eye, but softly cushioned with a soft beige leather. Passing around tea, tiny cups, smaller than I've ever seen. I need a spoon, for daddy's love, and I told that woman. The grey lady only smiled impatiently into my soft face.I did not want to touch that woman-grey with no lips red; eyes coldly staring at me,mocking me."Don't you like my suit?" I wanted to know."Here's your spoon." she said and walked away from me.I decided to find that yellow-woman, and see her once again. I'd show her my big silver spoon, and she would like me then. I'd even grow a beard for her, if I could. So I walked across the rug onto the wooden block floor; through the gates, golden gates. . . "Yellow-woman," I called out in my mind.My hand reached out independently; everyone moved from me. Men a id woman laughed and pointed in my direction. Women, cautious of me, hid behind another man; not myself. Insulted was I, but the yellow-woman was on my mind, so I did not pay attention.In the dining room perhaps, thought I. So I walked through the long corridor with long Roman arched windows on either side. Marble floor, and a shiny brass chandelier, neatly kept. No smoke was there, and I could breath; free at last! I turned in circles all the way down, no one could see me now. I am a man! No ribbons for my hair! Daddy wanted more of me, I knew.I saw the envy in his eyes that night, long ago, when the fat man came—daddy's friend. Three healthy sons had he, and daddy had none.The hall was empty except for me. I could scream and I did crying, for her yellow breasts
and blackened hair.I saw her there, beyond that too long hall, and called out to her in my mind. Her dress looked white, but I knew that it was black and flowered too. She saw me, as daddy did. Slender legs, don't run from me! Her dress whirled from the wind she created.I ran after her, after my love: tears in my eyes, sweat flying from my brows, hands reaching out to her. Calling out loud, striving was I for my yellow breasted woman.
Running faster than her; beating her; I watched her hair flap on her back as she ran from me.'"I have a silver spoon," I called out to her. "Notice the carved flower design on the tip of my long spoon. It is like your skirt, don't you think? Come to me!"She turned her head to look at me: terror in her eyes, running still, knowing I would enter her with my manly self. I had to laugh inside. I would overpower her, and grow a beard for her and daddy perhaps, if I could. I'd be her crippled, fun­ny man, only crippled not-perfection.My body ran: heart pounding, energy full, through the puzzled halls with closed doors on either side. I grabbed her by the hair at last, and she screamed a lovely scream. I looked into her enlarged eyes, lips trembled; body not still, but shaking. She pleaded with me. I am a man, I wanted to say, with face too soft, and breasts too large.I took my yellow-woman, and she cried out in pain. I saw her grow, chest expand, courage had she! I shrunk in fear."You're crazy!" she whispered viciously into my ear."You fool!" I heard her say a million times. She would not stop; I could not breathe. Back I was in the smoke filled room it seemed.Still sweating from my running race, heart beating, stomach growling, I let her go; my love, and yellow-breasted woman who did not want my manly self. I fell onto the ground and let her kick me there, and that empty spot-daddy's shame. I did not moan, or cry out in pain, and there would be no tears, or ribbons in my hair. Daddy wanted more from me.

---------------------------------------------------

April 25, 1978—T ART AN—page 15
5-16-78-31
by Zener O 'Pamp
Deep in the turgid tenebrous depths of the brackish continent lurked the obblyoo. Of course the Star Comax weren't about to allow such an ignomonious brapp to contaminate their fussel- works and endanger the colony.. .Hosgop forbid! So now Ranfer Smith was tracking this perfid­ious foe with two heavy nuarrks and some ammo strapped upon his back. The going was slow. He had to serd step by step through the deep oozing muak. He paused every now and then and sucked the damp josl into his tired lungs. "Mehelien," he would mutter.He heard the loud hyennirogh of the obblyoo. He turned in time to catch sight of the obblyoo whocking upon the muak near the gizzoles. The ranfer pluzzled towards the deadly brapp, his nuarrks firmly grasped in his hands. He held them at the ready, clooped and set for naark. The obblyoo had beapkuyed out of range."Mehelien!" he yelled.A ruzzle went through the gizzoles. Smith looked up to see a chompingmoss ready to bib- iterate his throat. He swung his nuarrks and naarked the little brapp but good. "Mehelien!" His voice rung through the gizzoles expecting that he might awakrain more compingmosses but there came no reply. "Mehelien . .." and he continued to serd through the thick muak.Ranfer Smith was a man of cool indifference and iron fortitiude. Such sights that he has looked upon would blast the yews and wither the flash of strong mesons. He had seen the victims of the obblyoo die amid horrid torrents and the sight is burned forever in the bewox of the beholden, Indeed, here was a man not to waste idle weard- rings upon.Through the hyennirogh of a trumoldust, sounds of 2 voilent and brief stugfest came clearly
Ixoi
RAY OF HOPE
by Jeffrey Martinez
Sit by the fire on a cold summer's night Stare at the flames, let enter yellow light Put in your mind what comes from your sight Shine in Ray of Hope Pierce through the dark like a swift meadowlark Shine from above like a descending dove Enter the mind lighting scenes from behind Shine in Ray of Hope
Lie on my back trying to see what I find Recall the times so they will remind Then close my eyes, light reflects on inside Shine on Ray of Hope Pierce through the dark like a swift meadowlark Shine from above like a descending dove Enter the mind let it grow on inside Shine on Ray of Hope
Reading the Book and remembering there The Words they said so I will take my dare Open my life it shines out in the air Shine out Ray of Hope Pierce through the dark like a swift meadowlark Shine from above like a descending dove Exit the mind to shine in other eyes Shine out Ray of Hope
through the abysmal silence. There was some screaming which ended with a gasping gargulula. Smith shouted, striving to increase the speed of his advance. Again there was screaming and sounds of a stugfest. Then from the graxx a thing came reeling—a thing that had once been a mesdn— a gore-covered hibejebeous thing covered with foaming brothe that fell at Smith's boots and writhed and groved and raised its jammerwalled head to the rising moon, fell down again, and died in its own brothe. "Myhelien," he muttered holding up the hand that dangled from its broken
io
wrist.A hearfist fluttered across the horizon into the depths of the sinking seth. It s broad outstreched wagths cast a fleeting mycroib shadow upon the lone figure of the ranfer. He solemnly naarked the brothey remains, gathered his filthers and heading westwards. He followed the path of the soaring heartfist into the red seth. If only one could be consumated in its blazing red rays."Kathy. Wake up. It's time for class.""Mehelien" she cursed, watching her roommate pour a bowl of Obblyoos.
-.......JOC I
ON WATCHING 
A PAINTER
by Karen Joy
smooth, short strokes of the artist's brush, touched the canvas in various places, a tapestry of life wound from the palette.
SONG
by tio
A game for two I play with you Pastime for one is only fun I'm never sure, I could be wrong Is life too short, the days too long To sit alone and write my song
As springThey danced and made their rules By light of sun and inner jewels
In summerUp the hill they ranAnd down again they cameSo what, I say—a silly gameBut should one love those endless hillsJust think what two could do
As fallThey marveled whence they came Had all begun as simple game
In winterWhen they finally slowedAnd all around them nature showedThat time had passed, and I was wrongIt's not a game as all alongJust two that love and sing their song

---------------------------------------------------

page 16—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
A SMALL TRIP
by Mory Brenner
I go all alone, so little and small Towards a gigantic and massive blue ball,Its size overwhelming. I'm lost in a dazeAs I somehow get through that thick bluish haze.I slithered and crawled, like a sly alligator 'Til I happened to see an intriguing round crater. Then I felt a desire to investigate it So when I got back, I could clearly relelate it.I just kept going down, 'til I got to the end Where I met a real cutie, whom I'd soon call my friend.But then nature called, and we did not fuss;There were now four small ones, exactly like us. This progress continued for food was abundant, I'll explain it no more, so I won't be redundant. My identity lost, since we were all the same,I decided to exit in the same way I came.I started to slither and climb and to roll,And soon I came out through the same exact hole.I made my way through in the thick bluish part, And another new journey I knew I would start.I then turned around my old home to behold,An old slimy orange, all covered with mold.
The Puffin fare for youths.
One of the first things 
young Puffins learn to do 
is fly Icelandic. 
Beginning Apnl 1. 
1978, Icelandic will 
fly any youth (Puffin 
or person) front 12 
thru years old 
roundtnp from New 
York to Luxembourg 
for just $4(X) $0) 
from Chicago. Rt 
turn tickets are 
good fora full 
year. Fares art 
subject to 
change.
Book 
anytime.
But there's more to 
Icelandic than just 
kiw fares.
You II get a 
great dinner and 
excellent service 
on your trip. And 
Icelandic will 
set you down 
n^ht in the mid 
die of the Kuro- 
pean Continent, 
where you 11 be 
just hours away by 
train from Europe’s 
most famous 
landmarks.
So take a travel 
tip from Iceland’s 
favorite bird.
Learn to fly Icelandic. 
See your travel 
agent. ()r write 
Dept MS 2, 
Icelandic Airlines, 
P.O. Box 105,
•; West Hempstead, 
N Y. 11552. Call 
800 555-1212 for 
toll-free number 
in your area.
$275
45 tlav APKX fur
$400
ixith 1 .1re. (><mk1 thIcelandic to Europe
¦$iWS fri mi Cha .!«<> I * krls imi-J heVeserved ir><tiyvpniir to departure arxl eoft fur within K (Livsuf ri M-rv iluni Vkl $|f» h way (or travel in weekends
Kouiultrip 14-45 day APKX fare front N.Y.*
Komultrip Y«»iith Kare.w19d%I thru age 23.
Illustration by Andy Epstein
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re 
pair job He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers”, insists Kneg, 
his helper
"Dummy”, counters Blech "If 
this was leathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
e^icnmans
HAIRCUTS
(Wash Cut-Blow)10.00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10 7. 
Thun. Fri. 10 9 
Sat. 9 6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 
687 3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25.00
No
Appointments
nillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllf^

---------------------------------------------------

April 25, 1978—TARTAN—page 17
r
TALES FROM THE RUBBER PLANT
by Carla Jackson
(Splutter...Gurgle...Drizzle...) Good evening, ^ ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to another edition of Waterworks. Your host Leonard P. Shournozzle here, and tonight we're going to be talking with the author of the controversial best­seller The Drapes of Bath, Mr. Merrill F. Bathos, who's here with his lovely wife Lila. Merrill...?"Thank you, Leonard. The book, as you know, is a critical examination of the sociological structure of the bathroom in the context of the* individuals who comprise it—the soi-disant 'little people' like the guest towels and soap dishes. It takes a hard look at the evolution to the present system; you might say it really kicks the sh— what's that you say? We're doing this live? Sorry.""Very interesting, indeed, but I'm sure that most of our audience is familiar with your book 
«1 and would like to know more about your back­ground, since it obviously draws heavily on your first-hand observations.""Of course. My father's people were of a Dupont synthetic blend; my mother's family comes from a native catachouc plantation in Brazil, so you can see that I have a fairly interna­tional heritage. I was a bouncing baby, born on 
m December 13, 1975, in a small Rubbermaid factory just outside of Muncie, Indiana. My earliest memories come from when I was put, with a number of my youthful companions, into a pack­ing crate and shipped to a Macy's store near Terra Haute. I can remember that the ride was reason­ably comfortable—for tourist class—and our crew entertained ourselves by doing barbershop harmony to songs like 'Moonlight and Hoses' and 'Water you doing for the Rest of your Life?' They just don't write them like that anymore.""How true.""Once at our destination, we were placed in a spacious display carton in Bath and Bedroom, 5th Floor. I was very happy, because not only did the carton have a stunning view of Soaps and Toilet­ries, but it was on that small, neon-lit shelf that ^ I first met Lila. I knew that from the first time I saw her, she was the girl for me. From the tip of her nose (with 368 self-aerated jet sprays) to her long, soft, sleek body (with vulcanized wear-ever ribs) down to her all-stainless-steel reinforcing coil and 59 cent value attachment lock, she would be my one and only.""Oh, Merrill, stop it! You always embarrass me when you go on like that! But yes, Leonard, it £ was wonderful. At night, we'd watch the over­head lighting fade to a pale burglar-preventive glow, and I would fall asleep with my shampoo attachments on his shoulder. Or we'd count the stars in the Bicentennial display across the aisle. And he was so romantic! When Merrill proposed to me, he presented me with the most beautiful ring. Honestly, my girlfriends were green with £ jealousy—even they had to admit it's the most . impressive bathtub ring they'd ever seen. Isn't it gorgeous?""Yes, and enormous without being ostentati­ous. But isn't it at this point that the tragedy struck?"
"Yes, Leonard. The first really traumatic event in the life of any shower nozzle. A young woman, ^newlywed husband in tow, stopped in our de- partment. She selected a set of matched percale bedsheets, a supply of fancy soaps, then stepped over to us. I'll never forget her words. 'Michael, this is what we still need. I've been looking everywhere for one of these. And pink, to match the curtains...' To my horror, she reached down and picked me up. I let out a muffled cry of anguish and attempted to free myself from her
hang limply from her hands. The last things I remember in the store are the ring of the cash register bell, the rustle of a shopping bag, and the consistent lisping chatter of those guest soaps—I'd harbored a lot of doubts about their social proclivities, and what I overheard during that trip did nothing to convince me that I wasn't right. But that's going to be treated in my forth­coming work, Coming out of the Water Closet, and I don't want to say anything more on the topic at the moment.""I'm sure that's going to make fascinating reading, but please go on with your narrative.""I believe I must have fainted from the shock. When I came to from my semi-comatose condi- I could hear the woman talking. Her husband was meekly replying, 'Yes, dear', and my thoughts turned to Lila—would I ever see her again? While I was thus engrossed in my pensees, one of the guest soaps made a pass at me, and I retired to a corner of the bag alone.I'm afraid my account of my initial impressions of the Apartment aren't very good. Admittedly, it's the weakest section of my expose. But after being clutched by the neck and carried off to the Bathroom, I was thankful just to be conscious. I do recall that it struck me as a cold, clean, chrome-and-marble room, with shiny fixtures and crisp gingham curtains. Pink, I thought with a grimace.All afternoon I hung coiled around the faucet in the tub. Right above my head, on a flower- filled corner shelf, the guest soaps threw their reprehensible innuendoes in my direction. I tried to ignore them; happily, the soap in the tub, a jolly Irishman, and manly too, shared my contempt for the others, and struck up a conver­sation. He turned out to be an all right guy, and we soon became friends.But the worst was vet to come. That evening,
the man came into the bathroom. He hooked me up to the faucet, dropped me, and left. While my head was still throbbing, the young woman came into the bathroom, stepped into the tub, unwrapped her towel...and was stark naked. You have to imagine my shock; after all, I was still young and innocent, and wholly unprepared for anything like that. I turned my head and blushed violently. But that initial surprise was followed by a still more painful one. My ears began to pop as the air pressure dropped quickly, and then I had the sensation of water running through me. You'll have to pardon my blatancy, but there's no other way to describe it. I mean, we'd heard about things like that when I was with the other guys, but it's just one of those things that your parents never really explain to you. It started as a thin cold trickle^paralyzing my ribs until it came out as a torrent of warmth from my nozzle, splashing out of the tub. The woman let out a shriek that restarted the pounding in my head, and I spent the rest of the ordeal with my teeth clenched and my eyes shut.As I lay recuperating, I was amazed by the transformation that had occurred in my friend O'Reilly. In that short time, he'd lost a consider­able amount of weight, and each time the ordeal reocurred, he'd waste away further, until he'd become a shadow of his former self. I, on the other hand, merely hardened myself, and my life continued, bath after bath. I would witness many generations of bath soaps, and we formed a sort of alliance. But my thoughts were most often on Lila. I was sure I'd never see her again. I remember sighing a lot.By the following December, I had just about lived out my warranty. Leaks began to spring out along my length, and I knew that I was fast approaching old age. Eventually, I was put back into my return carton to be recycled. It's interesting that rather than fearing this unknown trial, I looked forward to my rebirth. It's all very symbolic, really; a sort of trial by fire where we're rejuvinated—truly an inspiring experience.Yet, as Muncie drew nearer, my thoughts did turn back to more worldly matters; the one regret of my life was having passed through it without my Lila. As the heat of the melting pot
began to envelop me in an almost tangible cloak of youthful warmth, I called her name out loud.I thought it was the fever in my brain when I heard a reply. But no—it was she, in the same vat as myself! The sound of her voice was enough to pull me from my stupor, and I reached out and twined around her, and we experienced that fiery baptism together.So now we're closer than ever, having been re molded into a No Slip Tub Safe Bathmat... We're living life to the fullest while we're still young, but we do hope, someday to raise a family.""Yes, Merrill and I plan on a pair of little rubber coasters or souvenir erasers, or maybe one of each. But we've decided to wait for a while, at least; there's a whole big wet beautiful world out there, and we want to enjoy it. Our rebirth has given us a new perspective on things.""Yes, we've discovered that being born again Vinylites is the only true way.""Thank you very much, Merrill F. Bathos, but I'm afraid we're just about out of time. Be sure to join us next week when we have as our special guests the Watergate Plumbers, who'll be discussing the vital role of copper tubing in that history-making incident. Until next time, this is Leonard P. Shournozzle, saying, 'Good night, Americans, and keep a stiff upper drin

---------------------------------------------------

page 18—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
Inrre ctOpF
A p r il2
iPiïihjc» t^VrrLti
NAPALM
CLOUl)
(OO * (0* wit
nhnmsnni
Illustration by Neal Kushner
fil£M5l5Mm5l5l^^5l5®5M5l5l5l5\515l515®5©m5MSM5M5M5M51!fll515M5l5l515©5l5l5l5l5®
"The SUPA Bargaining Experiments: 
What We Learned"
Professor Peter Ordeshook 
and Richard McKelvey
Wednesday, April 26, 7:30 PM, 
Breed Hall

---------------------------------------------------

April 25, 1978—TARTAN—page 19
DISCIPLINE 
AND CHAOS
m
by Michael Saftner
I walked to the foot of the mountain, clutching my tattered cloak. The cold wind came from the top of the mountain and chilled me."I am facing you once again, old man, " I said hoarsely, "I am standing here and I am facing you and you are large and mighty. I stand before the ridge that leads to your heights. But unlike pre- ~ous times, I have not come to scale you; I have merely come to look."The ragged edges of the mountain rose upward from the flat earth and almost disappeared in the mist that enveloped its highest peaks. The day was dark and the only light that appeared came from the village that was a great distance from the mountain."You are a silent creature when I climb you,"* said. "Yet you howl at night and then I fear you. You are big and you rule my life. I am nothing unless I climb you, yet I don't know why this has been ordained. I thought that maybe I climbed you because it was my destiny. But looking at you and looking at the valley, I find that I prefer the valley. It offers peace and quiet and sanity."The mountain trembled and shook the ground. *You must ascend me because you are trying to reach the top. You want to see beyond into the next valley."I smiled. "I no longer wish this because the hope of another valley is a false hope. I am only a man and I cannot keep searching for that which I won't find. I now live for the present moment and it speaks to me in my weakness, and it makes me look for a more immediate satis­faction. I am forced to betray my past and to look for a new future."Rain began to fall and the mountain was hid­den behind the clouds. I stepped onto a stone and shouted ,"You need me to live. You need me to have entity. You claim that greatness exists in reaching the highest peak. But in reality greatness comes to the complete man and not to one who has cut most of himself away in order to achieve ^eatness. You have stopped my growth and I aln now tired. Feebleness rinses my mind of any further need to discover the next valley."The rain grew harder and the water formed streams in the eroded land.I brushed my hair from my eyes and smiled. "I have gained wisdom because I have faced you." I turned to return to the valley, but could not. I sat down and could only look with awe at ¿ie mountain.
«8
«
«§5
««15<15
$<§5<§5
«
«m«§5
«<s
<§5
«<85
&&&&&&
by NMS
You used me. you took what you wanted then tossed me away, likeDiscarding old wrapping paper from a gift you had gotten and had never really wanted.But I'm alive—not expendable or breakable* not a toy, but alive.Now I see through the mask and I hate you.Not for what you did to me but for what you are, and what others are becoming because of you.i^Others more easily hurt.Others more easily broken. ^
& 
»
A 
PRUNE 
POEM
by Mory Brenner
To pick a plum is lots of fun, At night lit by the moon.But if you leave it in the sun You'll end up with a prune.
THE SHERIFF 
AND THE 
SHAPELESS RULERS
by Vincent C. Ashoff
Ameba-like shapes Climb the steps of the White House Presently housing a cover-up The sheriff enters „And tells the second generation Their time's up.We're just takin' root,But he don't give a damn, he says,As the first generation of the new family Turns up on the scene.
But they are the same as us Naturally,What did you expect, yells the sheriff As he throws them all out And as the second generation Sits out on the cold white steps Waiting to be picked up.The sheriff feeds them a table full of philosophy
There is constant motion.It's called changeAnd maybe their faces look like yours But your name is different And that's all we need for them And points to us.
And we all standOutside the gate, tears running down our cheeks. It's sad—But they are from laughter Least mine areLet them amebas take over the country It's just an image anyway.
Illustration by Matt Murray

---------------------------------------------------

r
ALBERT R. BROCCOLI
in
TARN
Directed by 
LEWIS GILBERT
Music by
MARVIN HAMLISCH
Hear Carly Simon Sing 
“Nobody Does It Better”
5,197a\u
Friday, April 28
5:45
8:00
10:15
12:30
NOTE: This is a change 
in the schedule.
"Bobby Dearfield" is no more.
All shows in DH 2210
Sponsored by A.B. Films and your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
CMU students find summer jobs abroad
fgtCO ' -
WtiMcM:::AIESEC sends nine
Sue Razutis and Jean Frankenberg speculate on what will await them at summer
Jobs in West A frica and Japan.V\
Japan, West Africa bound
Living in a foreign country sounds excit­
ing, and it’s fun to dream about it, especial­
ly two weeks before finals. Yet when two
five semesters at CMU as proof of her abili­
ty to stick it out in a rough situation. 
“Every year I want to run away from 
school when finals are coming, but I’ve
CMU students were offered the chance to gone through with it each time. Japan will 
live and work among people of a foreign require a different sort of determination, 
culture, they had to be prodded to take it. but I think it’s the^e.”
Why? Because getting adjusted to new SUM provides four weekends of orien-
surroundings is not easy (remember your tation, dealing with such topics as a Christ- 
first month here?), especially when people ian view of cross cultural ministry, building 
speak a different language, live in another friendships, and dealing with the differen- 
climate, and perceive life in a manner far ces and problems the students will encoun- 
removed from the way Americans see it. ter. Once a month, this included Carnival 
But Sue Razulis and Jean Frankenberg weekend, the girls drove to Bowling Green, 
decided to take their chances and see what Ohio for the training. Past SUM students 
would happen. Both women have been se- say they were very well prepared for their 
lected to participate in the Student Train- summer experiences, 
ing in Missions program (STIM), and will When asked why she was going to spend
spend this summer teaching English and the summer overseas instead of working as 
discussing Christianity. They heard of an engineer, Sue replied, “I spend three-
by Ellen J. Silverman
What are CMU students doing this sum­
mer? Some are waitressing. Some will work 
as lifeguards. Others will drearily spend 
their time in summer school. And some will 
be undertaking managerial tasks in such far 
away exotic places as Turkey!
AIESEC, The International Association 
of Students in Economics and Business 
Management, provides for a summer em- 
w ployment program overseas. For each for- 
^ eign intern a U.S. corporation accepts, an 
o- American AIESEC student has the chance 
§¦ to work abroad. Acquiring this corporate 
" acceptance, however, entails a well-organ­
ized marketing scheme. Throughout the 
school year, AIESEC marketers visited 
corporations and tried to obtain employ­
ment for the foreign interns. This year, due 
to the excellent managerial talents of 
AIESEC-CMU executives, nine internships 
were established.
Once an internship agreement is made, 
the corporation will identify the kind of 
student they’re looking for by specifying 
nationality, language skills and academic 
specialization. AIESEC then locates the 
qualified student from a pool of available 
candidates. AIESEC handles visa arrange­
ments and transportation, and also pro- 
.vides for the intern’s lodging and orienta­
tion in the assigned country. AIESEC 
students in 55 countries obtain jobs for 
foreign students ranging from two to 
eighteen months in duration. Jobs offered 
include: an in-depth exposure to a parti­
cular department, a special research pro­
ject, an overview of the firm by rotation 
through several departments or a position 
in the company’s regular training program. 
Corporations hosting an intern in Pittsburgh 
this summer are: Equibank, Pittsburgh Na­
tional Bank, Mellon Bank, Gulf Oil, West- 
inghouse Electric, Koppers, Rockwell Inter­
national and Carnegie-Mellon University.
Nine members of AIESEC-CMU will be 
working in Europe this summer. Juniors 
Paul Henderson, Kathy Koledin and Ellen 
Silverman will obtain marketing experience 
in Turkey. President of AIESEC-CMU, 
Glen Raiger, along with sophomore Jim 
McGeary, will be employed in Norway. 
Glen will be doing marketing analysis for 
the export of gift articles. Jim will work as 
a production control analyst. Senior Judy 
Vetter and junior Jim Wolfe will be in Bel­
gium. Judy will be doing accounting work 
in one of the Common Market countries; 
Jim will be employed by a bank. Leslie 
Salminen, AIESEC Exchange Controller, 
will be doing computer programming for a 
manufacturing company in Finland. Junior 
John Cave, perhaps the bravest of all, will 
travel to Poland and work for a large coal 
mining firm:
Being totally independent in a foreign 
country is an experience that these future 
managers of CMU can only profit by. 
Quick decision making and a high degree of 
alertness and aggressiveness will have to be 
exhibited by all of them. These character­
istics are essential for success in any kind 
of managerial endeavor.
STIM through CMU’s chapter of Inter- 
Varsity Christian Fellowship of which they 
are officers. Sue is a junior EE who is going 
to Gambia, West Africa. Jean, a junior 
technical writer, will spend the summer in 
the greater Tokyo area.
They were selected in December from 
360 students who applied to the STIM 
program. Because of the missionary nature 
of their work, STIM students are required 
to have a firm Christian commitment as 
well as enough personal stamina to cope
fourths of the year with my profession. 
Now I want to spend one summer of my 
life exploring another culture and my 
Christian commitment.”
If you have questions, or would like to 
support either Sue or Jean this summer, 
please contact Sue at ext. 4838 or Jean at 
271-2038. All summer work is volunteer— 
the 84 students are working hard to raise 
a budget of $117,000 by May 15 in order 
to pay for transportation, room and board. 
Between them, Sue and Jean must raise
with being in a confusing enviroment for $3000, and would appreciate any help you 
an extended period of time. Jean credits can give them.
AIESEC students going abroad, left to right: Leslie Salminen, Jim McGeary, 
Glen Raiger, Ellen Silverman, Paul Henderson, Judy Vetter. Not pictured: Jim 
Wolfe, Kathy Koledin, John Cave.
The strange apparatus belongs to the ASE III class, where it's commonly known 
as the liquid cooled bulb chamber.
ASE III enlightens campus
by John Golec
What happens when you put several en­
gineering students and a metallurgist into 
a class and ask them to analyze, synthesize, 
and evaluate a topic unfamiliar to any of 
them?
The ’78 ASE III class members would 
gladly tell of the results of such a venture. 
The course provides juniors and seniors in 
the engineering disciplines with a realistic 
work atmosphere. ASE III tackles an inter­
disciplinary problem that students have 
lit tie. if any, familiarity with at the start 
of (lie semester. As the semester progresses, 
each student finds himself trudging through 
the libraries for hard-to-find sources, calling 
various “experts” in the field, and searching 
the Pittsburgh retailers for the “unique” 
part needed in order to construct the 
actual apparatus.
This semester, three senior civil engin­
eers, one senior and one junior mechanical 
engineer, an electrical engineer and a meta­
llurgist have been studying methods to
improve modem theater lighting. Under 
the supervision of advisor Dr. Dwight Bau­
mann and three mechanical engineering 
graduate students, the group has examined 
and discussed various components of thea­
ter lighting and is presently concentrating 
on improving existing spotlights. The de­
dicated nine have analyzed the problems 
associated with theater spotlights and 
floodlights now being used, such as overall 
awkwardness, excessive heat losses and a 
narrow range of color control. They hope 
to solve these problems with such unique 
devices as a liquid cooled bulb chamber, a 
flexible membrane lens system, a variable 
color mixing and intensity filter, and a 
digital dimming and control panel.
Prototypes of the flexible lens, liquid 
cooled bulb chamber and color filter have 
been fabricated during the latter part of 
the semester. For those interested in seeing 
the results of the semester-long engineering 
effort, a final presentation of their final 
proposal will be open to the campus during 
the week of May 1.

---------------------------------------------------

page 22—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
Is CMU gomg to the dogs?
Luke receives honorary degrees, job offers
'It's a dog's life being a CMU engineer,"daims Luke.
"You've got the wrong guy, Luke," Bob McMillin warns 
the Roselawn 12canine. phQtos by Marsha Fairbrother
START MEDICAL SCHOOL
SEPT. 1, 1978
Absolute accreditation with WHO listing. Meets eligibility requirements 
of the Association of American Medical Colleges for the COTRANS 
program. Approved institution for HEW guaranteed student loan 
program and VA benefits. The school is well established and 3 classes 
have already graduated. Over 1,500 U.S. citizens are currently enrolled. 
A non-restrictive admission policy and 2 semester pre-med program are 
in existence. Applications are being processed on the basis of first 
qualified-first accepted. Intensive language instruction starts in late 
June. We are not associated with any American "Admissions Office" 
and there are no exorbitant fees involved. Inquiries should be made 
immediately and directly to the Dominican Republic. You may call 
809-688-4516. You may write:
CENTRAL RECRUITING OFFICE
DOMINICAN UNIVERSITIES OF MEDICINE 
Edificio Diez - Oficina 508 Conde 202-32 
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
During an impromptu awards ceremony held last Friday in Roselawn 12, 
Luke A. Fer was voted the “Senior Most Likely to Succeed.” His title was 
unanimously approved by a group of celebrating seniors who claimed that 
“CMU is now graduating the best.”
Luke’s credentials speak for themselves. He’s been granted honorary 
degrees in mechanical and electrical engineering, as he’s attended more 
classes just by carousing Doherty Hall than seniors Joe Stas and Dave 
Alioto, Luke’s engineering roommates.
Alioto claims, “This dog is a real canine prodigy. He approached joe 
in a ME class last year and begged to live with him. We took him in as a 
sixth—he’s hell in our homework groups.”
Over the past two years of living at Roselawn, Luke has perfected his 
hobby of roof sitting. He climbs onto the porch roof through Bob 
McMillin’s bedroom window, and tirelessly guards the abode. The men 
of Roselawn 12 encourage him to roof sit more than he’d like, for Luke 
also has a habit of howling at CMU coeds who approach Roselawn Terrace.
The active canine has come very close to being Roselawn’s SDC represen­
tative. During the fall election,he tied with another resident, but he stepped 
down because he couldn’t squeeze in the Sunday night meetings.
McMillin claims that Luke has only one potentially limiting attribute. 
He explains, “I don’t know if I’d want Luke around if I ever got into a fight. 
He always attacks the assailant, and it would be all over if I punched some­
one.”
Because he is the youngest of the Roselawn group, Luke frequently is 
the victim of college jokes. Another of his roommates, Bob Hantz, occasion­
ally uses Luke instead of barbells when he gets the urge to weight-lift at 
home. Having a low tolerance to alcohol, Luke frequently moans for aspirin 
on Saturday mornings, and is very reluctant to drink from his water bowl 
for a few days.
Luke has no immediate plans after graduation, and he will probably stay 
with Stas or Keith Knestaut. Holding honorary degrees in ME and EE, Luke 
has had many job offers, but he’s contemplating taking a graduate position 
at Pitt. Whichever he chooses, the group feels he’ll undoubtedly live up to 
his title.
£) Full Time Work-Study Student needed to
| work at Child Care Center during June,
?j July and August.t
| If you are interested please bring resume
*1 to Child Care Center at 1060 Morewood
i Ave.wa m $$ 
p n
Ask to see Marsha Poster or Vivian Trout­
man.
i'i$$
P
PÊns>I
©J
CAMERA SALE !
Two Honeywell Pentax single lens reflex cameras for sale. Each camera comes with a 55 mm. standard lens (Takumar). The lenses have maximum aperture ratings of f/1.8 and f/2. The f/2 lens is quite new; the bodies and the f/1.8 lens are old. The camera with the f/2 lens for $50 and the camera with the f/1.8 lens for $40. If you are a part time photography buff or plan to be one soon, these dirt cheap SLRs will get you started fine. Beat the rush and call 578-2111 or leave a message for the Pho­tography Editor in the TARTAN office. The cameras will be sold on a first come first served basis.

---------------------------------------------------

April 25, 1978—TARTAN—page 23
Radio Club hams up Sweepstakes
by Sandra Met z
Buggies can travel at up to 50 miles per 
hour on their course through Schenley 
Park, which makes buggy racing a somewhat 
hazardous occupation. This is where Ama­
teur Radio enters the scene.
** The Tech Radio Club (W3VC) provides 
communications for all buggy practices 
(held at 6:30 AM on Sunday mornings) 
and for the actual races. Through ham 
radio communication, things such as keep­
ing track of where cach buggy is, keeping 
the course clear of unauthorized vehicles, 
and handling any emergencies which arise 
are made much simpler and more efficient. 
An emergency can be anything from a taxi 
getting through the roadblock and onto the 
course to a buggy losing its steering and 
crashing into a tree. In either of these cases, 
other buggies farther back on the course 
must be stopped, all officials made aware 
of the situation, and medical help summon­
ed (if necessary). In general, ham operators 
are involved to make buggy racing safer, 
H as well as easier for the officials.
The Tech Radio club is organized into a 
CMU “Buggy Net” for this purpose. The 
net consists of seven radio operators at 
various checkpoints around the course (see 
diagram). The checkpoints are Net Control 
(base station), Starting Line, Hill One, 
Westinghouse, Panther Hollow, Chute, and 
Scaife (portableunits).
8 Each of these checkpoints has special 
hazards which the radio operators must be 
aware of. Net Control, as the name implies, 
runs the entire Buggy Net. This means 
making all decisions as to when to open 
and close the course to traffic, when to 
stop buggies on the course in the case of an 
emergency, and at the same time keep the 
net legal in the eyes of the F.C.C. This en- 
^ tails procedures such as having all members 
of the net identify themselves by callsign 
and unit name at least once every ten min­
utes.
buggies by their pushers, and backs up unit 
Chute in case of an emergency. This unit 
also controls traffic from the driveway by 
Scaife Hall.
This year, through some combination 
of good driving and designing of buggies, 
and good luck, there was only one acci­
dent, one near accident, and no serious 
injuries. CMU buggy drivers are not always 
this fortunate. Several years ago, a buggy 
crashed at the Panther Hollow bridge and 
its driver’s back was seriously injured. The 
amateur operator present summoned an 
ambulance (which was waiting on another 
part of the course), but the ambulance
attendants were unsure of how to safely 
transport someone with that type of back 
injury. At that point the amateur operator 
used his autopatch (equipment for making 
a telephone call from a portable ham radio) 
to call the hospital directly from the scene 
of the accident. He described the details 
of the accident, and the ambulance at­
tendants described the exact nature of the 
driver’s injuries. As a result, the driver was 
transported correctly, the hospital staff 
was fully prepared and waiting when the 
ambulance arrived, and the driver recov­
ered completely. Doctors later said the 
time saved by using the autopatch was a
major factor in saving the driver’s life.
The Tech Radio Club provides com­
munications for buggy races on a volun­
teer basis, as a public service. Amateur 
operators who particpated in this year’s 
races are:
Philip Thompson WB2EWB Net Control 
Robert Berger WA2EBG
Michael Fox WB3HTE
Elliot Glaser WB3CAU
Gregg Lebovitz WA3ROZ
Sandra Metz WA2ZTQ
Richard Montgomery N3DV 
Philip Pesavento WB3EEU
James Vernon WA 1RGJ
Starting Line unit is responsible for 
keeping traffic stopped from Margaret- 
Morrison Street and for communicating the 
start of each race to all units. Starting Line 
unit is also responsible for keeping net con­
trol informed as to how many buggies will 
^ be running in each race, and which ones 
they are.
Unit Hill One is responsible for making 
sure each buggy arrives at the top of the 
first hill, and for stopping buggies in the 
case of a false start (which would be com­
municated by the starting line unit). Since 
Net Control is not portable, unit Hill One 
also aids Net Control by tracking down of- 
^ ficials in the area when needed.
Unit Westinghouse is out of sight of all 
other units, and so reports when each buggy 
is safely past. Since this checkpoint is at 
the bottom of the first large hill, it is at 
this point that buggies will stop if they in­
cur any freeroll trouble. During freeroll 
practice buggies are started approximately 
every two minutes. If a buggy stops at this 
^ point, it is the job of unit Westinghouse to 
report and make sure that no other buggy 
is started until the course is clear.
Unit Panther is also out of sight of other 
units. This is frequently a scene of accidents 
because the buggies have reached almost full 
speed, and are approaching their first curve. 
Unit Panther controls traffic from the 
Panther Hollow bridge, reports when each 
buggy is safely past, and must be especially 
alert for accidents.
The Chute is the most dangerous part 
of the course for buggy drivers because 
they are traveling at top speed and must 
negotiate a sharp right turn to stay on the 
course. Unit Chute must control traffic 
from the Oakland bridge, report buggies 
as safely past, and be alert for accidents.
Unit Scaife reports safe pickup of the
Outward Bound is a high-adventure trip into the wilderness.
And a lot more.
It's a trip that shows you what you're made of. For the first time in your life you confront yourself face-to-face. You learn you can do anything you really want to do.
All this takes just three weeks. But the self-confidence you learn might just last you a lifetime.
Send me full information.
Name
Street
City Stale Zip
School
Phone
Check the courses that interest you.
Canoeing ___ Desert expeditions___
White water Wilderness
rafting ___ backpacking ___
Sailing ___ Mountaineering ___
Outward Bound. Dept. CA.
165 W. Put nam Ave .
Greenwich.CT 06830.
Phone toll free (800) 243-8520.
No experience necessary.Outward Bound admits students oj any sex. race, color and national or ethnic origin. We are a nonprofit organization. Scholarships available.
Outward Bound
The course that never ends

---------------------------------------------------

The group, heavily oriented towards 
percussion, layed down some impressively 
complex rhythms that not only kept feet 
tapping with the latin syncopation but 
surrounded and colored all the solos with 
the aggressive, insistent beat. This was 
fine for a while, but after an hour, all the 
tunes began to run together into one mass.
Renaissance, after DiMeola, was a total 
change. The only way to listen to their 
music is to sit back, relax, take off your 
clothes and let it gently wash over your 
consciousness. Unfortunately, without the 
assistance of an orchestra and the concom­
itant tonal colors their sound quickly 
slips into monotony. The ever present 
twelve string guitar that did nothing but 
strum and pick riffs any novice could mas­
ter in five minutes and the less than stimu­
lating drumming, left most of the task of 
saving the show to Annie Haslam’s not un­
impressive vocal chords and Jon Tout’s 
slightly less astounding keyboards. Annie’s 
singing was as marvelous as ever, unequiv- 
ically the finest pipes in rock today. But 
the rest of the group did nothing worth 
mentioning, even in a negative way. 1 have 
rarely heard a more unafYecting concert.”’ 
The songs were reduced to overly simplistic 
exercises, making no technical or emotional 
demands on either performers or audience. 
Where DiMeola at least managed to generate 
movement and excitement. Renaissance 
produced only lassitude.
they might have woken people up. As it 
was, DiMeola was far from perfect, but at 
least he was lively and Renaissance seemed 
listless by comparison.
The highlight of the set was the one 
acoustic medly on Short Tales of the Black 
Forest. Here DiMeola dazzled one and all 
with his control of the much more diffi­
cult acoustic guitar, playing with astound­
ing skill and delicacy of touch. It was a 
welcome relief from the pounding beat of 
the rest of the set and one wonders why 
DiMeola didn't vary his material more. 
His electric playing, and the accompani­
ment, tend to sameness, but his acoustic 
improvisations are much more subtle and 
sensitive and don't pall nearly as fast. 
Still, the show was invigorating and enjoy­
able, though not extremely memorable. It 
left me, at least, impressed with DiMeoIa’s 
ability, but disappointed by the basic shal­
lowness of his playing.
All of Renaissance’s albums depend 
heavily on orchestration and without it 
they seemed lost. Add to this the fact that 
they ignored their strongest material in 
favor of the weaker fare of their last two 
albums and all that's left is a show that is 
conceptually boring. Even the trite fog 
machines and mirror ball only compounded 
problems. The only saving grace was Annie’s 
singing which could not help but move 
even the hardest hearted, hut that was not 
enough. Except for the encore, which some­
how came alive, it was an eminently for­
gettable show.
I can't help feeling that Renaissance 
only came off as badly as they did because 
DiMeola was so alive a.id intense. If they 
had had a more stately opening act. some- 
‘hing in the line of a harpsichord concerto,
films
A.B. Thursday Night Film Series pre­
sents North By Northwest in which Alfred 
Hitchcock brings three exceptional talents 
-Cary Grant, Eva Marie Saint, and James 
Mason together in this 1959 suspense 
thriller. Grant plays an American business ­
man who unknowingly becomes entwined 
in an espionage plot. Hitchcock s genius 
produces memorable scenes in the edge-ot- 
the-chair plot. The climatic scene scaling 
Mt. Rushmore is unforgettable. Showtimes 
are 6:00, 8:30 and I 1:00 in DH 2210.
The next night The Spy Who Loved Me 
will be presented. Showtimes are 5:45 
8:00, 10:15 and 12:30 in DH 2210.
Concert shows diversity
DiMeola s playing was, of course, tech­
nically impeccable. A highly trained guitar­
ist, on records he tends to sacrifice emotion 
and gut-level improvisation to coldly tech­
nical virtuoso displays. This was evident in 
concert but to a lesser degree. From the 
opening number to the end of the encore 
the excitement never let up.
This is not to say that the concert was 
perfect, but it did have it’s good points. 
DiMeola. looking more than ever like a 
slightly bemused owl, demonstrated mas­
tery of his instrument and control over his 
band. In order to play this music success­
fully, a group has to be drilled to perfec­
tion. Since the melodies and changes are 
so fast and precise: one slip could be fatal.
A Concert Review
Artists: Renaissance and AI DiMeola 
Sponsor: Activities Board
by David Doremus
It would be hard to imagine a less aus­
picious combination then A1 DiMeola and 
Renaissance. DiMeola exemplifies a brand 
of electric jazz that depends on volume, 
improvisation and technical skill. Renais­
sance, on the other hand, is a rather extreme 
case of English composed rock that gets its 
effects from the arrangements, using in­
strumental timbres to build complex multi­
layered sounds on top of very simple me­
lodies and chord progressions. In concert 
this contrast had much the same effect as 
Julius Hemphill leading off for the Pitts­
burgh Symphony.
DiMeoIa’s group certainly deserves com­
mendation for tightness. If, at times, the 
solos were less than inspired, that can be 
forgiven because they provided such a 
strong framework for DiMeoIa’s playing.

---------------------------------------------------

YELBallet dazzles Pittsburgh
his own ability did not compare with Miss 
Kirkland’s overwhelming excellence.
The outstanding talent of the dancers 
was evident throughout the evening.
Attaining near-perfection both individually 
and collectively, the stars of The American 
Ballet Theater are sure to be favorites of 
the Pittsburgh audience for years to come.
PBT makes contribution
A Dance Review
Company: American Ballet Theatre
by Margaret Hueftle
The stars of the American Ballet 
Theater performed excerpts from four 
different major ballets, with the principals, 
Gelsey Kirkland, Ivan Nagy, Peter Shcaufuss 
<gand Marianna Tcherkassky. displaying 
varied abilities with consistent, excellence. 
Miss Tcherkassky and Mr. Schaufuss opened 
with a pas de deux from the Flower 
Festival in Genzano, portraying a young 
couple who have fallen in love. The dance 
examines their changing roles as they grow 
increasingly aware of each other’s feelings; 
she was captivatingly innocent and delight­
fully coquettish, while he tried to win her 
with his agility, strength, and gentleness. 
With a fluid and graceful precision, the 
dancers totally supported one another, 
Mr. Schaufuss’ power and boldness formed 
a robust counterpart to Miss Tcherkassky’s
exquisitely delicate style. Through the use 
of folk costumes and a black velvet drop, 
a simple elegance was achieved that further 
^enhanced the intricacies of the dance.
After such a strong beginning, the per­
formance of Giselle, Act II, was a disap­
pointment. The story centers on Giselle, 
a young girl who dies of a broken heart 
after learning she was deceived by Count 
Albrecht, who courted her, disguised as a 
peasant. Giselle’s spirit joins the Wilis, 
sprits of girls whose deaths have been 
^caused by their lovers’ infidelity. From 
midnight to dawn they haunt the forest, 
preying on young men, and driving them 
to their deaths. Albrecht, mourning Giselle 
at her tomb, is discovered by the Wilis. 
Myrtha, Queen of the Wilis, refuses to 
grant him mercy and orders his death. 
Giselle appears to save Albrecht, dancing 
with him through the night to prevent the 
^Vilis from dancing him to his death 
through shear exhaustion. Just as it seems 
that he can no longer continue, and his 
death is inevitable, dawn breaks and the 
Wilis vanish, taking Giselle with them. 
Albrecht is left, grieving and alone.
Miss Kirkland was ethereal as Giselle, 
virtually flying across the stage. Aloof 
and statuesque, Hilda Reverte, controlled 
the situation, portraying a cold and power­
ful Myrtha. Mr. Nagy, as Count Albrecht,
remained detached from the role and never 
convincingly showed remorse for his lost 
love, or desperation in pleading for his life.
The choreography itself was uninspiring 
and did not do justice to the capabilities of
the performers, especially Miss Kirkland, or 
to the potential drama of the piece. There 
was no climax as the dance vigil con­
tinued. The culminated power of the Wilis 
merely dissipated with the spirits as they 
slipped back into the mist of the forest.
In contrast, the final act of La Bayadere 
provided Mr. Schaufuss and Miss Tcher­
kassky with the medium for another excel­
lent performance. The piece tells of Nikiya, 
a bayadere .or temple dancer, and her love 
for Solor, a warrior. A rival presents Nikiya 
with a basket of flowers concealing a veno­
mous snake, that bites and kills Nikiya. 
In a dream, Solor visits the Kingdom of the 
Shades, and seeking out Nikiya, vows never 
to forsake her. The ballet is an example of 
symphonic choreography in which a theme 
is stated by a principal dancer, and them 
expanded and restated by the supporting 
dancers. Leaping to incredible heights Mr. 
Schaufuss danced brilliantly, incorporating 
both flair and control, the embodiment of 
virility. Miss Tcherkassky was not over­
shadowed by his dazzling and forceful per­
formance, equalling his abilities with her 
own. Dancing with refined and exact move­
ments, she was the personification of 
feminine beauty and grace. In contrast "o 
the intensity of Nikiya and Solor, t» » 
Three Shadows were carefree, playfully 
incorporating the established themes in 
their own passages. As the Three Shadows, 
Michelle Semler, Kim Vickers-Nass, and 
Salli Silliman were individually strong, but 
lacked uniformity when performing 
together.
The last presentation of the evening, the 
pas de deux from Don Quixote, was an 
excellent finale. The theatrical nature of 
the piece was the perfect backdrop for Miss 
Kirkland's own bold style. Dressed in red 
and black lace, she was fiery and alluring. 
Maintaining a proud aura that verged on 
arrogance, she flirted shamelessly from 
behind her fan. She seemed to find shear 
joy in every step, and invited the audience 
to share it with her. Unfortunately, Mr. 
Nagy’s role became a supportive one, and
by Hemerle Rhodes
In connection with National Dance 
Week, scheduled for April 24*30, Pitts­
burg’s Mayor, Richard Caliguri, has declared 
that same week as Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
Week, saluting America’s fastest growing 
performing art.
A part of Broadway, movies, TV, theatre, 
and the disco scene, dance is ever expand­
ing its bounds, and Pittsburgh is making its 
contribution. 210,000 people attended 
PBT performances last year, both here in 
Pittsburgh as well as on their national tour.
In commemoration of the art, the U.S. 
Post Office will be releasing a block of four
13-cent stamps depicting various forms of 
dance. Artist John Hill did the designs.
Many area activities are scheduled to 
promote the dancing arts. Among them are 
free daily tours of the PBT’s headquarters, 
including their dance studios, costume 
shops, and storage facilities. Tours may be 
arranged by calling Mary Bensel at 281- 
0360. Patrick Frantz, PBT’s artistic direct­
or, will offer master ballet classes to area 
schools and colleges, and the company will 
present a series of lectures and demonstra­
tions.
To reserve a season subscription, call 
PBT’s sales office at 281-0360 so you too 
can be part of the dance craze.base
it, Ms. Tippetts works with the musicians 
to achieve a harmony rarely found among 
today’s star-reaching vocalists.
Their sound is true improvisation based 
on a common understanding. Julie careens 
the lyrics in a tripping fashion, playing 
with the sounds like a musician with notes. 
Definite choices are made showing explicit 
control, and yet Ms. Tippetts is far from 
rigid in her style; she's not your conven­
tional singer. She doesn’t immitate nor 
stylize any other vocalist, proving she’s 
every bit an “artist.” Even when approach­
ing songs with established sounds ( as in 
the cases of Don t Let Me Be Misunderstood 
and Rope Ladder to the Moon), Ms. 
Tippett finds new veins to explore and 
room to expand, letting her soar to new 
heights.
In addition to elevating music, the lyrics 
take you on a journey of the mind far 
from all your cares. There’s a sense of 
movement, or more likely a moving on to 
better things that comes across in many of 
the songs. Included in these are: Spirit, 
Git Up, Freedom Highway, Future Pilot 
and Nothing Will Be is It Was.
Brian Auger’s Encore, fittiingly titled, 
is certainly one album you’ll want to hear 
many repeat performances of.
Innovation proves sound
Julie Tippetts and Brian Auger prove jazz and rock can blend successfully.
An Album 
Album: Encore 
Artists: Brian Auger and Julie Tippetts
£ by Hemerle Rhodes
Now that musical styles are comple­
menting and learning from each other 
rather than thwarting one another for a 
place on the charts, artisfs are freer to in­
tegrate various sounds with some interest­
ing results ensuing. Brian Auger, whose 
keyboard renditions always did have their 
own special magic, fuses just the right ele- 
^mtiits of ja/.z and rock to give us a sound 
, that’s mellow yet light, classical yet not 
too stuffy, memorable yet not repititious.
But experimentation with sound is 
nothing new to Auger, who bases his music 
on continual growth. Hence the reason for 
disbanding his highly accomplished group. 
Oblivion Express. There were no regrets 
(on any of the members' parts); they had 
Just taken their music “as far as we could 
“go. ”
This direction hasn’t changed much. 
The aim is still to the innovative, the un­
tried, the best he can do . . . and Encore 
must certainly rank up there with the best. 
Auger’s musical abilities, especially on the 
keyboard which has become an extension 
of his spirit and soul, are able to evoke
deep settled feelings without risk of prev 
tension.Blending like an orchestrated instru­
ment is the gutsy, wailing-blues singing of 
Julie Tippetts. Not content to follow the 
music alone, nor in need of over-powering
I

---------------------------------------------------

page 26-TART AN-April 25, 1978
CMU ropes Jesse James'Tricycle' goes flat
A Theatre Review
Play: The Death and Life of Jesse James 
Producer: CMU Drama Dept.
by Syd Price
“The function of PLOT is to simplify 
life by imposing order upon it. The Death 
and Life of Jesse James does not answer to 
that description.” Indeed. Last night’s 
opening of the last CMU drama production 
of the year, directed by David Ball, was 
truly unique. Plot synopsis? Quite impos­
sible. One of the many lines of action pro­
ceeds something like this: Bob Ford kills 
Jesse James, then Jesse James kills Bob 
Ford, then Jesse James kills himself, then 
Bob Ford kills himself, then Bob Ford 
kills Jesse James, then he does it again, 
then Bob Ford meets Jesse James. In that 
order. As this accounts for only 7 of the 
42 scenes, it soon becomes apparent that 
there is an awful lot going on here.
First and foresmost, 11 is a western, and 
all the standard elements of a western are 
here bank robberies, indians, ladies of 
‘professional pleasure,” old-time evange­
lism, and death. But lest we get bored, we 
are also presented with some new twists. 
Playwright Len Jenkin also throws in a 
T.V. interview with the James gang, a 
comfy chat with the president in his quar­
ters, walking cactuses, bank tellers dressed 
as lizards and grasshoppers, and criminals 
who masturbate with Trailways busses 
passing by. Overall the viewer is presented 
with a collage of old-time outlaws living 
in a modern world. Yes, here it is, theme 
freaks: alienation in a technological society!
But that’s not all. There’s lots and lots 
of themes and symbolism, all presented in 
the same not-quite-coherent manner. I sus­
pect that the illogical sequence of events 
n this play might have become too much
to contend with had the production not 
been so. Fine. From the time I entered the 
theater greeted by an honest-to-god 
genuine western-sounding band consisting 
of banjo, flute and violin (music composed 
by Scott Heineman)—until I left the old 
man on the stage to finish his sweeping, 
I was surrounded by a very believable 
setting of ‘westernness.” And I don't 
mean like John Wayne-these guys didn’t 
ride plastic horses and eat beef jerky. They 
rode Greyhound busses and ate economy­
sized cans of Heinz baked beans. These 
cowboys were real people; the characteri­
zation on the part of the actors was im­
pressive.
If none of the above-mentioned features 
get you particularly excited, the play has 
one more pull: it’s damn funny. Some of 
the comedic scenes included a fantastically 
staged fight between the bartender and 
Dewey Dalton-turned-rag doll, and Jesse 
and Ford dancing in the moonlight.
The comedy, the characterization, and 
the concept allow this play to survive a few 
tedious moments in the script. You’d 
better catch it now—it’ll be a long time till 
it makes the late show.
The Camegie-Mellon Theatre Company, 
now in its third season, will present three 
comedies this summer: Alan Acykboum’s 
“Absurd Person Singular,” depicting be­
hind the scenes disasters at the Christmas 
parties of three couples; “The Killing of 
Sister George ” by Frank Marcus, which 
chronicles the “demise” of a soap opera 
heroine in order to boost the show's 
ratings; and Neil Simon’s “The Good 
Doctor, ” a re-telling of Chekhov’s funnier 
short stories. A fourth play, August Strind­
berg’s “The Dance of Death” will be pro­
duced in September.
She laughs, she cries, she feels angry, 
she feels lonely, she feels guilty, 
she makes breakfast, she makes love, 
she makes do, she is strong, she is weak, 
she is brave, she is scared, she is...
amed
Woman
20th Century-Fox Presents
PAUL MAZURSK^SAN UNMARRIED WOMAN
iUningJILL CLAYBURGH ALAN BATES
“ co-surring
MICHAEL MURPHY CLIFF GORMAN
Produced by PAUL MAZURSKY and TONY RAY Written and Directed by PAUL MAZURSKY 
Musk BILL CONTI Now in fapertMktk from Avon caotnMowiM nmnnocuixi*
i Ortghud Morton PVtwr eru.fda, friiHitili on Mill Century-foi monh
WKBOtUIXI*
UWJ.
STARTS WEDNESDAY
CHECK YOUR LOCAL NEWSPAPER FOR THEATRE LISTING
A Theatre Review 
Play: The Tricycle
Producer: Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre
by T. Brink
I always attend Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theatre’s productions in hopes of being 
able to return back with a positive report. 
This is a company I’d truly like to pull 
for. Situated in a decrepit church structure
in Oakland, they operate on limited grants 
furnished by A. W. Mellon Trust and the 
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts. Their 
audiences are small and they’re staffed by 
mostly volunteers. It’s painstaking for any 
theatre to have to function under such 
meager conditions. This is understandable.
But the quality of their productions is 
consistently low, and in the three years 
that I’ve been attending their plays, there
has not been the slightest indication of 
progress. They possess the stamina, the 
drive and the energy to create. What they 
seem to lack, regretfully, is the talent.
Their latest offering is The Tricycle, 
by Fernando Arrabal. Billed as a “clown 
show,” it pretends to demonstrate how the
comic can easily blow into the surreal. 
Arrabal does this in hopes of raising the 
total work into a grandiose statement 
about the condition of mankind. His script 
leans toward the pretentious and can 
hardly be expected to evoke the intellec­
tual response it works for. The writer gives 
both his audience and his cast too little to 
go on. *
PLT’s director, Bill Royston, seems at a 
loss here. What are his intentions? Does he 
have any? The production lacks attack, 
intensity and commitment. When it begins 
with the comic, it’s not funny. When it 
tries the poetic, it doesn’t engage us. When 
it strives for pathos at the end, it doesn’t 
affect us at all the way drama was 
meant to.
Part of Royston’s problem is with his 
groundplan. It is set on a barren stage with 
a lonely bench positioned dead center. This 
space is buttressed around by a white 
drape, thus providing the actors with only 
one opening from which they can enter 
and exit. If this was intended to be an 
avant garde or metaphoric layout, it fails 
on both counts. It tires too easily.
The actors, who will remain nameless 
here, can’t seem to come up to the clown 
make-up that they’re wearing. They miss 
the chemistry of comedy and tragedy that 
is so essential to the art of clowning. 
What they lack in comic ability, they try 
desperately to make-up for with displays of 
energy.
The PLT will be presenting Green Julia 
from May 12 until May 28. Hopefully they 
will recognize that script for the simple 
comedy that it is and not seek to overblow 
it with their usual interesting, but empty 
approach to theatre.
Photos depict life
John Phillips, noted photographer and 
author, will discuss A Will to Survive: 
Faces of Terror 1948-Faces of Hope 
Today on Sunday, April 30, in the GSIA
auditorium. Beginning at 8:15, the lecture 
will focus on two sets of his photographs: 
one taken in 1948, during Israel’s War of 
Independence; and the other, a set of pho­
tographs of the same people in 1975.
Phillips began his career in 1936 as one 
of Life’s original photographers, and has 
been instrumental in establishing the art of 
photo-journalism. His photographic accom­
plishments include the famous picture of
Roosevelt, Stalin and Churchill at Teheran, 
and Titò and his partisans in Yugoslavia.
He was a combat photographer during 
World War II, and spent time behind the 
Iron Curtain after the war.
In addition to his photography, Phillips 
has written for Time, Life, Esquire, 
Holiday, The Reporter, and many foreign 
publications. According to the Jewish 
Week-American Examiner, his new book, 
A Will to Survive, is ‘ as vital as it is 
moving, made so by Phillips’ great photo­
graphs, which ... are truly overwhelming, 
and a lucid, simple text, both of which 
mirror the living reality of Israel and truly 
its will to survive.”
The lecture is open to the public free of 
charge and is co-sponsored by CMU and 
the B’nai B’rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
CINEMA
Thursday, April 27, AB will present 
North by Northwest in DH2210 at 6,8:30 
and 11 PM. Admission is 75cents with ID 
and $1 without.
AB will present The Spy Who Loved Me 
April 28 in DH 2210. Show times are 5:45, 
8:00, 10:15 and 12:30. Admission isjil 
with ID and $1.25 without.
SDC will feature Slapshot on April 29 in 
DH2210. Showings are at 6,8:30 and 11 
PM and the film is free to the campus 
community.
^0 A free Cinema and Animation Festival 
featuring films made by Design majors 
at CMU will be held on Thursday, April 
27 in the Wherrett Room.
On Saturday April 29 the 1th Annual 
May Day Open Screening will be held at 10 
AM and 3 PM in Carnegie Lecture Hall. 
This will be an informal viewing of films by 
Pittsburgh area filmmakers. Refreshments 
^ will be served and the event is free and 
open to the public.
Barry Lyndon will be presented April 
25 at 7:30 in the Eddy Theatre or chapeL 
A charge of $1 is required.
Riddles of the Sphinx will be shown 
April 25 at 8 PM in the Museum of Art 
^ Theatre. Admission is $1.
The Barrier will be shown April 30 in 
the Carnegie Lecture Hall at 7:30. Admis­
sion to the film is $ 1.
.ART
The Nexus Gallery at 119 Shady Av­
enue will display a eellection of poems 
on Images of Love by Franklin Duckand 
paintings by Donna Edwards. The poetry 
is calligraphied by Kathy Gray Farthing. 
All three are graduates of CMU. Their 
show will run through May 2nd with 
^ gallery hours being: Sunday-Tuesday 11 
AM to 3 PM and Wednesday-Saturday 6 
PM to 10 PM.
Ursula Neubauer will have a print- 
making display in the Hewlette Gallery 
from April 23 to April 28. Hours for the 
Gallery are 11 to 4 PM, Monday through 
Friday.
^ John Koepnick will have a sculpture 
exhibition in the Skibo Faculty Lounge 
from April 16 to 21. Hours are from 11 
to 4 PM, Monday through Friday.
A show of weavings by Nancy Hagen- 
Liddle will be on display in Skibo Fac­
ulty Lounge from April 23 to April 28. 
^ Times for viewing are 11 to 4 PM, Mon­
day through Friday.
An exhibition of graphic works by 
« Hundertwasser will be on display at the 
Jeannie King Mellon Library Gallery 
through April 30th. Hours for the gallery 
are Tuesday through Sunday 2 to 5 PM, 
and Friday 7 to 9 PM.
^ The Treasure Room, Museum of Art, 
Carnegie Institute, currently has an exhibi­
tion In the Classic Spirit. This exhibition 
will be on display through the Spring. It 
features a variety of objects from the 
Museum’s permanent and private collec­
tions and is composed of ancient and Re­
naissance bronze and 18th century porce- 
— lains, enamels and silver.
Jim Burford will display his paintings in 
Skibo Faculty Lounge April 30 to May 5. 
The paintings may be viewed 11 to 4 PM 
Monday through Friday.
Carnegie Institute’s Museum of Art 
will be sponsoring some new exhibits in 
early May. In Gallery A, running from 
May 2 to June 11, will be American Folk 
Paintings, and, from May 5 to July 9, 
Gallery D will house Three Decades of 
Sculpture by Tillie Speyer.
The CMU Senior Department of Art will 
hold an exhibit May 1 to 11 in the Hewlett 
Gallery. Times for the gallery are 11 to 4 
PM, Monday through Friday.
THEATRE
The Unlit Corridor, written and directed 
by William Turner, will be produced by 
Theatre Express on April 29 and 10. Per­
formances are at 8:30 PM in Chatham 
College Chapel. For more information call 
322-4671.
The Performing Arts Department of 
Community College of Allegheny County 
South Campus is presenting the area pre­
miere of Preston Jones’ a Texas Trilogy 
on April 14, 16, 21, 22, 23, 28, 29, and 
30 with an 8:30 curtain. Reservations 
can be made by calling 469-1100, ext. 
390.
Lovelace Theatre will present Carnival 
of the Seventh Moon through May 14 in 
the Museum of Art Theatre. Show times 
are Saturdays at 1:30 and 3:30 PM. For 
further information call 361-4835.
The Reluctant Debutante will be pro­
duced by the Carlow College Dept, df 
Speech Communication, and Theatre on 
April 27 to 29 at 8 PM in the Kresge 
Theatre, at Carlow College. Admission is 
$2 for adults, $1.50 for students. For more 
information call 683-4800, ext. 261.
Camelot Productions will present the 
musical You’re a Good Man, Charlie 
Brown from April 28 through May 21 at 
the Plaza Theatre. Performances will be 
Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 PM and 
Sundays at 7:30 PM. For reservations call 
683-7770.
McKeesport Little Theatre will have 
productions of Godspell on April 28,29,30, 
May 5,6,7,12,13,14,19,20, and 21. Curtain 
times are 8:30 PM., 7:30 Sundays. The 
Theatre is located on the corner of Coursin 
St. and Baille Ave. Reservations are a must, 
-'O call 673-1100.
Point Park College Theatre Company 
will present A Streetcar Named Desire 
from May 2 to 14 at the Pittsburgh Play­
house theatre. For more information call 
621-4445.
MUSIC
The Kiltie Band will hold their pops 
concert on Skibo patio April 26 at 12:30 
PM. In case of rain, the event will be held 
in the Ballroom. The concert is free and 
open to the public.
The Greater Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
American Civil Liberties Union will spon­
sor Pete Seeger in Concert at Heinz Hall 
on Tuesday, May 9 at 8 PM. Tickets are 
on sale at Heinz Hall and Ticketron outlets 
at Kaufmann’s, Gimbels, and Sears. Tickets 
are $4.50, $5.50, and $6.50. For more 
information call 681-7736.
The Juilliard String Quartet returns to 
Pittsburgh on Monday, May 1, for its an­
nual concert for the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music Society in Carnegie Music Hall at 
8:30 PM. This concert has been rescheduled 
and tickets dated March 20 will be honored.
Pianist Murray Perahia will perform 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony April 28, 
29 and 30. Show times will be 8:30, 8 and 
2:30 PM respectively. For information re­
garding tickets call 281-5000.
CMU's Music Department will present 
concerts by the Contemporary Music 
Ensemble and the university choirs on 
April 28 and 30. Both concerts are free 
and open to the public.
Spanish pianist Alicia de Larrocha will 
be the Pittsburgh Symphony’s featured 
guest artist in upcoming concerts on 
Thursday, May 4 at 8 PM; Friday, May 5 
at 8:30 PM, and Sunday, May 7 at 2:30 PM 
at Heinz Hall. For information call 
281-5000.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
will perform a free concert in Heinz Hall 
on Saturday, May 6 at 8 PM. Guest con­
ductors will be Bruce Ferden and Victoria 
Bond. Free tickets are available after April 
28 by going to Room 502 of the City- 
County Building downtown.
A concert of works by Eugene Phillips, 
a Pittsburgh composer, will be presented 
May 3 at 8:15 at the First Unitarian 
Chruch, Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues. 
Admission is free. For more information 
call 621-8008.
The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, con­
ducted by Buddy Morrow, and special 
guest vocalist Bob Eberly will appear in 
Heinz Hall’s Cavalcade of Great Bands on 
Sunday, May 21 at 8 PM. Tickets are $8.50, 
$7.50, and $6.50 on sale at Heinz Hall. 
For information call 281-8185.
WRCT
WRCT presents The Morning Show 
week-days from 6:30-9:30. The format 
of this program includes music, news, 
weather, class cancellations, and traffic 
reports. WRCT is located 88.3 on your 
FM dial. •
MISC.
The University of Pittsburgh Dance En­
semble will close this year’s monthly studio 
concert series on April 28 ana 29 with a 
gala celebration of National Dance Week. 
Three different companies will be pre­
sented each evening. The featured compan­
ies will be the Pittsburgh Dance Alloy, the 
Black Theater Dance Ensemble, Janet 
Gillespie and Present Company, Lucy 
Reynold’s contemporary Dance Company, 
the Cathy Powell Dance Company, and the 
Marylloyd Claytor Dance Company. Per­
formances will be held in the Trees Hai* 
Dance Studio, Aliquippa and Darraugh 
Streets at 8:00 PM. A $1.00 donation 
can be made at the door. For further in­
formation, contact Margaret Skrinar, 
Physical Education Department, 624-4396.
The Alternative coffeehouse will feature 
Tom Schaffer playing Modem Folk Music 
in the american tradition on April 28 from 
8 PM to Midnight. The Alternative is locat­
ed at 4515 Forbes Avenue.
The Selma Burke Art Center will pre-« 
sent the second in a series of Art and Jazz 
extravaganzas on Sunday, April 30 from 6 
to 9 PM. Featured will be Roger Humphries 
and the RH Factor and Lewis “Shorts" 
Davis. For more information call 441-2304.
The Imaginarium will present three 
workshops at a two-day conference, Part­
ners: The Arts and Education, sponsored 
by the Section of Education, Museum of 
Art on April 27 and 28. Workshops and 
panels at the conference are designed to 
demonstrate the efficiency of arts as class­
room learning tools.
The American Dance Ensemble will 
present David Lechin’s Graduation Ball 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on April 21, 
22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 at 8 PM. 
Tickets are $2, $3, $4, and $5. For more 
information call 391-4100 ext. 412.
Chatham College will sponsor a Spring 
Weekend and Folk Festival from April 28 
through 30th. Medieval Folk Dancing and 
Drama will be preformed April 28 and a 
rock concert with medieval flavor will fol­
low the next day from 3 to 5 PM. Arts and 
Crafts will be on display 1 PM to dusk on 
both the 29th and 30th. A folk festival 
with Harry Waller will be presented 
as well as a 3:30 performance of The Re­
luctant Dragon by the Lovelace Marionette 
Theatre. All events are open to the public 
at no charge. For more information call 
441-8200. ext. 239.
The Alternative coffeehouse will present 
Dwayne Thorpe on May 5. The show will 
consist of authentic folk music depicting 
the heritage of America. The Alternative 
is open 8 PM to midnight. For information 
call 682- 6886.
John Phillips, photographer and author, 
will discuss A Will to Survive: Faces of 
Terror 1948-Faces of Hope Today on 
Sunday, April 30, in GSIA auditorium. The 
lecture will begin at 8:15 and is free and 
open to the community. The event is co­
sponsored by CMU and the B’nai B'rith 
Hillel-Jewish University Center.
Local Contact:
Mrs. P. Williams 344-7878
Jnvitation toCFranctr
BEAUX AATS
•IronCi 
f tyniScnC 
fI DANSEGHHEE0
CUISINES
felN-MODi
THE PARIS AMERICAN ACADEMY lift* the language barrier to- make it possible for you to begin an exciting and unusual edu­cational experience.
This institution is in association with the University of Paris Ecole du Louvre, Monuments historiques, Paris Conservatory, many renowned artists of the city, and leading fashion houses.
CHOOSE YOUR OWN COURSE OF STUDY FROM 14 MAJOR DISCIPLINES : French - Art History - Painting - Engraving Serigra- phy- Sculpture •Ceramics-Music-Dance-Theatre-Cinema-Photogra- phy-Cuisine-Fashion.
There is no age limit for ad- Credit Transfer* Available
mission. Enrollment is compo-
sed Of teachers, professionals, o January Interim Jan. 4 . Feb 1adults, and high school and O Summer in France July 1 . Au( 4
“ni.vTiiL*tudcnt* Tuition* °o*S£,o'*££¡*5include lodgings.
PARIS AMERICAN ACADEMY • RUE DES URSUUNrS PARIS FRANCE ’M41 
Send International Air Mail coupon« }1 c
409 Mapleview Dr., Pgh., Pa. 15220

---------------------------------------------------

page 28—TARTAN—April 25, 1978
Illusion clouds scepticCMU goes Hollywood
A Puppet Review
Company: Lovelace Theatre Company 
Producer: Carnegie Institute
by Karen Locitzer
Carnival Of the Seventh Moon, it sounds 
mystical, I thought, walking to.Scaife Gal­
lery. I had heard of the Lovelace Theatre 
as the oldest public theatre in the country, 
and it sounded very prestigious.
I walked into the elegant Museum of 
Art Theatre, and into a scene of chaos. 
Little children were bouncing on seats, 
hopping in the aisles and crawling under 
people’s legs. Horrified, I checked the pro­
gram and realized I’d been sent to review a 
puppet show. 1 had nothing against puppet 
shows, except that they belonged to my 
dim and musty childhood and being quite 
grown up now, I didn’t think I would en­
joy it very much.
The lights dimmed and on the bottom 
level of the set, four tiers of jungle painted 
greenery, some mice bobbied about. Look­
ing for crumbs, they scratched at the rocks 
painted on the grass. Even in a puppet 
show, they represent the full chain of the 
ecosystem; I thought, Sesame Street has 
initiated realism and sophistication in 
children’s productions. But I lost these 
thoughts because it was kind of magical, 
those puppet mice and the rooster who 
trotted onstage and crowed proudly, like 
any archetypal rooster ought to.
The villagers drifted onto the stage. 
Rhythmic music began, interspersed with 
chatterings and bits of talk and excitement 
about the carnival to begin that night.
As the plot unfolded, I began worrying 
about being bored. It centers on a young 
boy, Antonio, who is very naughty and 
who’s first carnival is this year. His grand­
father is trying to raise him well, but he 
always lets the fire go out under their 
dinner. I knew that Antonio would get in­
to some kind of trouble, and then be res­
cued by his own virtue and the kindness 
of the world around him. Not a very new 
or unusual plot.
But there is more to a show than plot, 
and I had the chance to be impressed by 
the skill of the puppeteers. I had the chance
to notice the brightly colored costumes 
and be refreshed by the lively music and 
laugh at the wonderful noises. That rooster 
who crowed was not an actor yelling cock- 
a-doodle-doo, but a real live, recorded 
rooster. The children, while I don’t think 
they noticed these things, were pacified 
and pleased by the play.
I confess that I was sucked in. The 
thatched huts and palm leaves of the village, 
the truly eerie water whispers and bird 
cries of the forbidden forest, the boogying 
alligator and maraca shaking bear-it was 
so peaceful and easy to enjoy. And even if 
I knew Antonio would ruin his costume 
through his naughtiness, I wasn’t bored be­
cause of all these other things.
And just as I predicted, at the end, after 
he proves that he is brave and has ruined 
his costume by falling in the river, the vil­
lagers praise him and each donate a scrap 
bf sparkle ribbon from his costume. Anton­
io ends up with the ‘sparkliest’ one of all.
But the wonderful thing about the end­
ing, aside from its happy ever after rejoicing, 
is that all the villagers are wearing spangled 
and ribboned costumes that glitter and fly 
as they dance wildly to the holiday music. 
Then the lights fade and black lights glow 
over them. The stage becomes rejoicing 
colors: an abstract painting flowing, an 
impression of carnival. Streamers begin 
flying and even dancing as a glowing 
orange moon rises and the wonderful mu­
sic plays on.
When the phosphorescent pink The End 
sign climbed up I was disappointed; I 
wanted it to go on and on. Around me, 
children were asking if they could stay and 
see it again.
As I walked out, it occurred to me to 
check how long the show was: fifty min­
utes. I couldn’t believe it. I felt years away 
from the person I was and the time I was 
in when I first walked in. Even though just 
then I felt as light and free as I sometimes 
imagine kids do, I knew it was only an il­
lusion, one instilled in me by some very 
creative performers and a free Sunday af­
ternoon. But even if it was an illusion, I was 
happy the performance had so blinded me.
! _ /7
• O
• A.<
•
LJ
X
films made by students majoring in Design 
at Carnegie-Mellon University will be held 
on Thursday, April 27 in the Wherrett 
Room.
Free and open to the public, the 90- 
minute program of animated and live ac­
tion shorts will be shown at 8:00 PM. The 
films, in color and with sound, range in 
length from 30 seconds to over four min­
utes and represent a variety of film making 
techniques.
The shorts were all produced by students 
in a Super 8 film making course taught by 
Adjunct Professor of Design Harold Corsini. 
In the course of a semester, Corsini’s stu­
dents get intensive hands-on experience in 
film making. Working individually, or in 
small groups, they must develop an idea 
for a film, produce the graphic arts material 
to be animated-generally drawings, water- 
color sketches or paper cutouts, then
photograph, edit and compile a musical 
score for the film. “We’re teaching students 
film making in a way that encourages and 
requires them to learn the entire process,” 
Corsini says. “Although most of the films 
have been produced on a budget of $20 or 
less, the best of them are comparable in 
quality to commercially made films costing 
several hundred to several thousand dollars.” 
The films are made in the Design De­
partment’s Super 8 Animation Studio, 
equipped with cameras, recorders, an 
animation stand and editing facilities. 
“We supply the students with some gui t 
dance and basic equipment,” Corsini adds, 
“but what really makes these films special 
is the creativity, and the hundreds of hours 
of time the students invest in makingthem.” 
Although a few of the films have been 
shown on KDKA-TV programs, the Cinema 
& Animation Festival will provide the first 
public screening for most of the shorts.'Rabbit Test' has miscarriage
A Film Review 
Movie: Rabbit Test 
Producer: Joan Rivers
by Sherry Siegel
Rabbit Test, Joan Rivers’ painfully bad 
movie about the first man in the world to 
become pregnant, not only insults its aud­
ience with juvenile attempts at humor, but 
manages to insult Poles, Jews, Germans, 
Mexicans, blacks, gypsies, midgets, homo­
sexuals, the medical establishment, the ar­
my, Indira Ghandi, the President, the Pope, 
and the Queen of England as well. Such a 
feat is not difficult for Rivers: she merely 
repeats one old joke and stereotype after 
another. And if this isn’t enough, she pro­
pounds her morals and unfolds a totally
unbelievable story at the same time.
It’s not that I don’t believe that 24-year 
old Lionel Carpenter could become preg­
nant after his first sexual encounter (in the 
back room of a USO joint with a raving- 
mad nymphomaniac)-anything can hap­
pen in the movies. But Lionel (played by 
Billy Crystal) is unconvincing as a mother- 
to-be, even though he throws up from 
morning sickness, grows a pot belly, and 
holds his tummy in that cute, possessive 
way that pregnant women do. He asks no 
questions about his unusual state other 
than the obligatory “Why me?”, has no 
qualms aboilt how he will actually deliver, 
and marvels hardly at all that he is singled 
out for such an honor.
And an honor it is, according to Rivers, 
director as well as co-writer with Jay Red- 
ack. Inbetween insults and vulgarities, she 
pounds away at us with her message: 
motherhood is beautiful (even for men), 
abortions are terrible (even for men), and 
people who think otherwise are nincom­
poops.
In fact, Joan Rivers seems to think 
everyone is a nincompoop. This includes 
Lionel’s mother (Doris Roberts), who tries 
hard to be the typical Jewish mother and is 
still waiting for her husband Mel, who left 
her years before, to come home for dinner; 
Lionel’s sister, a grotesquely fat teenage 
slut; the local priest, who accidentally 
drowns two of four quadruplets during a 
baptism; Lionel’s doctor (Paul Lynde), 
who can’t spell “obstetrician” and has writ­
ten on his office door “Baby Doctor” in­
stead; and the doctors in the hospital, one 
of whom mixed up a kidney with a heart 
during a transplant. A mob scene offers us 
a host of outdated stereotypes: housewifes 
in flowered house dresses, hard-hat con­
struction workers, and-yes!—even hippies. 
There’s not a real person in the entire mov­
ie.
Rabbit Test invites comparison to 
Blazing Saddles because both presume 
crudity to be a natural by-product of life 
and both use vulgarity as the passkey to 
humor. But Rivers fails where Mel Brooks
succeded because she gives us no real or 
likeable characters like those portrayed by 
Cleavon Little and Gene Wilder, and her 
movie is just not clever enough. Some of 
the jokes are downright nauseating. Easily 
one of the worst scenes in the movie (there ' f 
are several) takes place in the hospital. A 
doctor and several med students making 
rounds come to a patient in traction and
swathed in bandages from head to toe. 
With a flip of a switch the doctor zips the 
patient up so he is suspended from the 
central pole by his hands and feet, like a 
sloth or a pig roasting on a spit. They laugh 
hysterically and move on to the next pa- ^ 
tient, whom they tell hasn’t got a chance * 
in the world.
The end of the movie, which comes 
about an hour and a half too late, is cloak­
ed in quasi-religion; but by now we are too 
pumped with morality and stupid jokes to 
accept the not-too-subtle suggestion that 
Lionel has given birth to the new Messiah. 
Other themes in the movie, the importance!! 
of being true to yourself and how love con­
quers all, are equally as ludicrous after Riv­
ers applies her magic touch.
Rabbit Test sins in the worst way a 
comedy can-it isn’t funny. I would rather 
suffer labor pains than have to watch it 
again. But it will probably be on television 
in less than six months; the night it’s on, 
Inl W W- A sqojd movie^

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
on page 30
Call B or see us in Room
425. Cathedral of Learningx a ui a i vi iii ui ii i ii
Awn mom^
ROTC
Gateway to a great way of life.
Track team struts new stuff against PAC
by CRE
The echoes of a new champion have 
been sounded. They have been heard in 
Ohio. They have felt them in the moun­
tains of West Virginia. Pennsylvania has not 
Scaped. Yes folks, this is THE YEAR OF 
THE TARTAN! Sound familiar? Not 
really. The people within the track circles 
are not used to what is happening. The Car» 
negie-Mellon track team is winning and 
winning big.
The constant rain that fell during the af­
ternoon last Wednesday at first appeared toE
in a challenging duel meet against the 
ted Case-Western Reserve. As it happen­
ed, the team performed better than they 
were supposed to. With the track submerg­
ed under inches of cold water (memories 
that the cross-country team will never for-
“The people within the track circles are 
not used to what is happening. The Car- 
negie-Mellon track team is winning and 
winning big. ”
%t) the Tartans fought hard all the way. 
It all came to the outcome of the mile re» 
lay. The TARTANS lost by an unheard of 
one point, 70 - 71. If would have been on­
ly the second time in the last nine years 
that Case had lost a meet. Though the Tar­
tans lost, they had won a personal victory.
The week culminated in a very happyf
ay, none-the-less. The Tartans demolish- 
1 the defending Presidents Conference 
track champions John Carroll 104-37 on 
Saturday. It was a total team effort. The 
men showed enthusiasm. The freshmen did 
great. The Tartans swept four events. They 
won fourteen out of sixteen possible e- 
vents. The coaches smiled.
Results of C'MU vs. Case Western Re­
serve:
^ Jumps: Matt Wehrle, Tony Carrington, 
and John Hamm s^ept the high jump. 
Each cleared 6*0” in the rain and off a wet 
^takeoff surface. George Canepa won the 
triple jump at 40*9!4'' as he led a team 
sweep in the event. Hamm was second at 
40'8" and Rich Mengato third 39*2‘/i”. 
Hamm won the Ion» jump at 19*9V*. Bob
Hyland placed second at 19*4”.
Weights: Bert Murhammer was the top 
Tartan placer in the field events as he put 
the shot 38*11” for second. Mike Shaffer 
was third. Joe Goldcamp was third in the
“The Tartans lost by an unheard of one 
point. It would have been only the second 
time in the last nine years that Case had 
lost a meet. ”
javelin, throwing 145’ 4”. Ed Stahura was- 
third in the discus at 108*7‘/i”.
Relays: CMU won the 440 relay in a 
strong 46.1 . Case conveniently dropped the 
batton after the first exchange. The mile 
relay was the center of attention as the 
meet outcome was in balance. It was an ex­
cellent race but the Tartans were outsplash- 
ed and beated by 1.3 seconds in 3:34.1.5 ’
Distance: the track was under water. 
But since the distance men are simply the 
toughest athletes on the team (!) the races 
were still good. Dario Donatelli was second 
in the mile at 4:35.6 behind the conference 
champion. Steve Faloon also lost to an­
other champ but ran a personally satisfying 
race to take second in the three-mile in 
15:30.4. Steve Crelli placed third in 
15:41.1.
Sprints/Middle-distance: Bob Kennedy 
took second in the century in 10.8 with 
Bob McGee third. Kennedy blasted open 
the 220 to win in 24.1u Late (but not new) 
comer Frank Smoot took second in the 
440 with John Lewandowski third. They 
ran times of 52.9 and 53.3. Larry Gordon 
was third in the 880 in 2:03.9.
Results of CMU vs. John Carroll: 
Distance: Dario Donatelli set stadium 
records in two events. The former mile re­
cord was set in 1947 at 4:26.8.:Dario ran 
hard splits to win the mile in an excellent 
4.26.0 and the three mile in a personal best 
of 15:06.1. Nice going guys.
Hurdles: Joe Goldcamp also won the 
two events in personal records. He won the 
120 highs in 15.6 and the 440 intermedi­
ates in a great 58.0. Joe also won the pole 
vault!! Ed 0*Brien was third in the inter- 
“The Tartans demolished the defending 
Presidents Conference track champions 
John Carroll 104-37 on Saturday. It was a
total team effort. ”m.......................................
mediates. Look out Edwin.
Jumps: Consistency seems to be the 
must word for the jumpers. Once again 
they swept all three events. In the long 
jump, Bob Hyland earned his victory by 
breaking the sand at 20’61/£”. Paul Dicesare 
was second at 20’3,/4”. John Hamm was 
third at 20*1^”. Take note that all three 
are freshmen. In the triple, Hamm won 
with a mark of 42’7%”. Rich Mengato was 
second at 4\*1V” and George Canepa third 
in 41’0”. Dave Walch equaled his school 
record again in winning at a heights of 
6’6”. He had one excellent attempt at 
Matt Wehrle was second at 6’2**. John (a- 
gain) Hamm was third at 5*10**.
Sprints/Middle distance was second in 
the 100 in 10.4 with Ed O’Brien third in 
10.5. Frank Smoot took the 220 in an ev- 
er-quick 23.7. Bob Kennedy was third in
a fine 24.1. Smoot also burnt the cinder in 
the 440 to win in a great 51.5. John 
Lewandowski was third in 52.4 just missing 
second. Kicker Jeff Klaiber won the 880 in 
a fine 2:01. 7 to lead a team sweep. Barry 
Vukoder and Bruce Krebbers were second 
and third in 2:04.8 and 2:08 respectively.
Weights: Bob Skovransky was an im­
pressive winner in the javelin. He thrust a 
fine 176’7*’. Tom Shaw was third at 
155’3”. Rert Murhammer won the shot 
with aa put of 41*1^**. Ed Stahura tossed 
the discus for a seasonal best of 125*914** 
for second.
Relays: The 440 relay team won again 
in seasonal best 44.7 .The team enthusiasm 
peaked for the mile relay. The team des­
troyed John Carroll by 27.5 seconds. They 
timed a lightning quick 3:29.5.
Coaches Gary Meckley and Sam 
Maxwell are pleased with the team perfor­
mance. Each competition that they have 
faced, the Tartans have shown great pro»
“Coaches Gary Meckley and Sam Max­
well are pleased with the team perform­
ance. Each competition that they have 
faced, the Tartans have shown promise. ”
mise. This is the year of the Tartan. All are 
confident as the closing two meets of the 
season are near and the conference meet is 
scheduled for May 5-6. But first, the team 
must face Thiel College this Wednesday at 
home and Allegheny College on Saturday, 
also at home. The meet starts at 3:30 on 
Wednesday, 1:00 on Saturday. Come and 
see the Tartans at their best. Aloha.
Canoe results
ATTENTION SCIENCE 
AND ENGINEERING 
MAJORS!
The Air Fore? has openings tur voting tint» and women man>nnq in 
selected science and engineering fields Like Aeronautical Aerospace. 
General and Pllectncal Knyiixvring, Matlvmatie>. Phvsics and Com 
put« Technology
To help prepare for one of these. Air Foret* ROTC offers two and 
tour year programs of study which will defray some of vour ndlege 
costs
After completion of the AFRO I C rn|ttwnwni. and upon vour grad 
nation, votili St- commissioned an off Her in the Air Force Then come-, 
responsibility experience in your specialty with some of tin' hest peo 
pie and facilities in tlie world, and a mi"» hi with a purpose You'll yet 
excellent starting salarv medical and dental care :10 daws of paid va 
cation beginning vour first vear and wire
Look into tfie Air Force ROTC program right awav See what s in it 
for vou See In gc aprv can serve vour countrv in retimi Youll lx- glad 
vou put vour rrvwor to work on a toh that reallv mupts
CMU canoers sweep debut of race
The winning men's sprint team is shown in the foreground as teammates close £1 for a 1-2 finish.
This women's semi-final sprint features a collision between CMU's canoe and 
that of Clemson.

---------------------------------------------------

page 30-TARTAN-April 25, 1978
Jay Michaels and Lynn Ritter battle the elements and the river to send Number 
Six to y the finish line in last Sunday's race.
Here are the results of the First Three Rivers International Championship Concrete Canoe 
Race:
School nameSchool numberSchool score
*CMU3803.75
Akron1473.3333
Clemson4323.3333
Marquette8127.0833
Purdue13115
Princeton12101.6666
C.C.IM.Y.1076.6666
Cleveland557.5
Seneca1756.25
Maryland947.5
Houston637.5
W V.U.1526.6666
I.I.T.723.3333
Youngstown1621.6666
Old Dom.1112.5
V.P.I.1411.6666
Bucknell210.8333
180
190
Pitt.200
Pitt John210
GYM SHORfiS
Team sets a deuce
The Carnegie-Mellon tennis team had 2 
strong victories this week, defeating 
Bethany on Monday by a score of 7—2. 
After a disappointing rainout on Wednes­
day against Case Western, the Tartans host­
ed Hiram to a 9—0 defeat on Saturday.
Strong singles matches boosted indiv­
idual records of Marc Silver and Mike 
Straub to 5—0 in the conference. Marc and 
Mike team up for the number 2 doubles 
spot where they also have a 5—0 confer­
ence record.
These wins place the team with a -.u-l 
record in the President’s Conference and 
4-3 in overall match play. With the strong 
individual records holding up, the team 
looks strong and should be real contenders 
for the PAC Championships.
This week’s match schedule puts CMU 
up against a strong University of Pitts­
burgh team at home on Thursday, April 27 ^ 
at 3 PM.
The last conference match will be play­
ed at Allegheny on Saturday, April 29. 5
A volley at WPIVA
iThe CMU Volleyball Team will host t^e 
Western Penna. Intercollegiate volleyball ti­
tle match tonight at 7:30 in the main gym 
as they face rival Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania. CMU finished in first place in 
the league, winning six out of eight tour­
naments, then went on to thump Edinboro 
in the semifinals on Sunday. Indiana fi­
nished in second, winning no tournaments. | 
but edged California State in the other . 
semifinal match. >n'
If you have ever wanted to see a serious 
volleyball match, tonight will be your 
chance. CMU’s John Price is the WPIVA’s 
most valuable player and the hardest-hit 
ting spiker in the Iri-state area. Setter Kris 
Scigliano and spikers Dave ('handles and 
Paul lollansbee were nominated to the . 
WPIVA I97S All-Star Team. Combine ® 
these four stars with Mike Poclum. WC(it 
Tauchc. Liny Pasternak. Dirk K;ilp. Mark 
Johnson, and Bob Culbertson and one has 
the most overpowering team ever seen in 
the WPIVA. The explosive CMU offense, 
coupled with the shut-down defense (plus 
a distinct disliking for Indiana > should pro- j 
vide excellent entertainment.
Support a winner in their attempt to I 
Capture another championship tor (A i

---------------------------------------------------

4621 Forbes Ave.
EXXON STATION
Between CMU and PITT
682-1444 
621-3317RRYDER
Does Anyone 
Really Care... ?
Overseas, millions like this youngster are hungry.
This is a grim reality in today's world. Thousands of these children die each day 
and countless others are physically and mentally impaired because they lack 
adequate nourishment. For millions like this child, life is dark and hopeless 
without outside aid.
Won't you help? Each dollar you send to CARE will give a serving of 
nutritious food to 54 hungry children.
A lot more than their hopes 
have dried up.
So have their fields. But they don’t need 
your tears. They need you in the Peace 
Corps. Be a Peace Corps volunteer, so they 
can once again hope for a future.
The Peace Corps is alive and well. Call 
toll free: 800-424-8580. Or write the Peace 
Corps, Box A, Washington, D.C. 20525.
Please care . . . hunger hurts, and it hurts children hardest.
; SUMMER! EMPLOYMENT!!
^ Royal Prestige needs students to supplement 
U summer work force!!!! $150-200 per week. For 
M further information, come to:
Skibo Room 11 April 26 11 A.M., 1 P.M., 3 P.M.
STUDENTS
1. The Department of Military Science is offering a new course this summer which will enable you to earn
$2500 
over the next 2 years.
2. The course is offered at various times during the summer.
3. For information concerning this offering, contact an advisor at the
DEPARTMENT OF MILITARY SCIENCE,
PHONE: 578-2204
Here is my $
Name
Address
City _________________ State _________ Zip ——.
Checks made payable to CARE are tax deductible
CARE, 400 5th AVE. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15219
Rents Trucks for Moving 
Local & One-Way. 
Low Rates.
¦¦

---------------------------------------------------

1
1 
I 
I
I
I
I
II 
1
1
II
1 
I 
I
I
S 
i
I I
I
I 
I 
I
1
Mora*TheRoblemSolved
Your parents want a practical 
car that minimizes trips to 
the gas station
You prefer a car with sleek 
styling that's fun to drive 
The solution to this dilemma-
The Chevy Monza
Practical, Economical, Stylish
The Chevrolet Monza with the 
newly available six cylinder 
engine has the highest EPA 
ratings* in its class
MONZA
33 MPG Highway 
19 MPG City 
And all of this ** from $3791.
* You and your parents' mileage may differ depen­ding on your driving habits, condition of car and its optional equipment* * Excluding taxes and destination charges.
The advertisement was created and placed by Carnegie-Mellon 
participants in the Intercollegiate Marketing Competition.
IBIBllNIIINinPniNIIHIINIUNinNIIINIIINIIINIllNlllNlllNIIINIIINIII^I!'^
