The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 43 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. JANUARY 30, 1945
Fighting Tartan Team Drops 
Game To Panthers, 61-47
Last Saturday night Tech lost its return game of the season to Pitt 
by a 61-47 score. The game, which was played on the stadium pavilion, 
was never particularly close, and the outcome was hardly to be doubted.
Tech opened the game with a two point lead on Mike Theodore’s two 
foul shots, but Pitt took over from there, and never relinquished the lead. 
Tech trailed by only two points after the fast first quarter, but couldn’t
hold Carlson’s Raiders any longer. 
The score was 32-21 at the half. Tech
ACAC Elections 
Set For Feb. 7
The following is a notice received 
from the Deans office:
At the meeting of Activities 
Council on January 24, 1945, a peti­
tion was presented by a large num­
ber of Engineering students re­
questing that an election be held to 
fill the unexpired term of Mr. Pol­
lock, who has entered the armed 
services. This petition was approved 
and a date set for the election.
The Publications representative, 
Mr. Lowenstein, has entered the 
armed services. Council voted to ap­
prove an election for a Publications 
representative to fill Mr. Lowen- 
stein’s unexpired term of office.
The elections are to be held on 
Wednesday, February 7, between 
the hours of 11:00 a. m. and 2:00 
p. m. As required by the Activities 
Council, the following election rules 
will be followed:
1. Each candidate must have a 
petition, signed by not less than 
twenty-five full-time students of the 
group he is to represent, in the Of­
fice of the Dean of Students not 
later than 4:00 p. m., Friday, Feb­
ruary 2, 1945.
2. The petition must be signed by 
the person who is running for said 
office—the nominee.
3. No person is eligible to sign for 
more than one petition for each of­
fice.
4. All school elections shall be 
conducted under the supervision of 
the Elections Committee of the Ac­
tivities Council.
5. Approved ballots will be pre­
pared and distributed by the Coun­
cil.
6. At the election poll each stu­
dent must present his Athletic Card 
in order to receive a ballot.
7. The Activities Council shall 
post the final nominations on the 
bulletin boards.
8. The list of candidates shall be 
published conspicuously in the 
Tartan preceding the election (Feb­
ruary 6, 1945).
Contributions Asked For 
APS Newspaper Strip
The Associated Publishers Syndi­
cate is sponsoring an illustrated 
newspaper strip which will appear 
under the title College Highlights. 
The subjects will include all phases 
of campus life, such as sports, school 
history and legends, student activi­
ties, famous alumni, and any other 
which can be illustrated, and a few 
words of explanation.
For each item used, the Syndicate 
will pay the contributor one dol­
lar. All ideas which are submitted 
must, of course, be authentic, and, if 
possible, accompanied by a photo­
graph, or clearly described in an 
outline in order to enable their staff 
artists to make as accurate a repro­
duction as possible.
If you wish to contribute, send 
your ideas to Miss Adeline Herlick, 
in care of the Carnegie Tartan.
Mortar Board Plans 
Heart Hop Saturday, 
After Geneva Game
Starting off the social program of 
this semester will be a dance spon­
sored by the members of Mortar 
Board on February 10th. The dance, 
which will take place from 10 to 1, 
immediately after the Geneva-Car- 
negie Tech basketball game, will be 
held in Thistle Hall.
Mortar Board has named the af­
fair the Heart Hop, and will carry 
out the valentine theme in the dec­
orations which are under the direc­
tion of Irene Waichler.
Music will be furnished by the 
best bands in the land, operating 
through an old fashioned juke box. 
In accordance with the form of 
music, the dance will be strictly in­
formal.
Dolly Willison is the chairman of 
the dance committee which in­
cludes, in addition to Miss Waichler, 
Peggy Cole, publicity, and Prissy 
Dodge, entertainment.
Admission to the dance will be 
$1.20 per couple, tax included, and 
tickets will be on sale in Adminis­
tration Hall from 11 to 1 every day 
beginning tomorrow.
A big turnout is hoped for at this 
clance, so that it may be proved that 
social life is not dead on the cam­
pus. Get your tickets now and help 
make this affair a success.
WATCH FOR THE DOPE!
Varnum Exhibits New 
Fashions For Girls
During the week of January 15th, 
Jonathan Logan Clothiers presented 
a fashion show, featuring designs by 
Dorris Varnum, the creator of un­
usual Junior fashions. This design­
er wanted the candid opinions of 
young moderns and she and her com­
pany invited a representation of col­
lege girls as well as the usual fabric 
manufacturers, buyers, and people 
of the press. Miss Mary Forman who 
was accompanied by Miss Alexan­
der, head of the Costume Econom­
ics Department of C. I. T. was 
chosen as a representative.
During a luncheon at the Waldorf 
Astoria the fashion show was pre­
sented in the form of a three act 
play. The play entitled A Midsum­
mer Knights Dream was supposedly 
the dream of G. I. Joe, and models 
dressed in Dorris Varnum creations 
appeared as his pin-up girls.
The fashions of Miss Varnum 
were youthful and yet sophisticated. 
They featured simple lines, and 
broad shoulders with cap sleeves 
which emphasized dainty waistlines. 
The colors were soft shades of grey, 
wisteria, and chartreuse. Well plan­
ned details gave each dress a dis­
tinctive touch.
Miss Forman and Miss Alexander 
were favorably impressed with the 
popular junior designer. They think 
that the simple sophistication and 
the understanding of what the 
young girl wants will make Dorris 
Varnum a popular junior designer.
Woman’s Clan Plans 
Three Benefit Bridges
The 24th annual benefit of the 
Woman’s Clan to raise scholarship 
money for deserving seniors is 
scheduled for February 3, 10, and 24. 
This year the parties will be held at 
1:30 on three Saturday afternoons 
in the form of dessert bridges at the 
Carnegie Union.
Reservations may be made at 
Alumni Headquarters through Mrs. 
John Willcox, II, at $1.25 a person.
The entire benefit is under the 
direction of Miss Jay F. Steele who 
has made the following plans: 
Classes of 1909-1923 will have their 
party on February 3 under the 
chairmanship of Mrs. Robert Floyd. 
She is being assisted by Mrs. Hes- 
penheide, Mrs. C. R. Fettke, Mrs. 
Graham, and Mrs. Irwin. On Feb­
ruary 10, the classes of 1923-1937 
will meet. Mrs. Robert Hackett is 
their chairman with Mrs. H. E. Hall, 
Mrs. Henry Dosey, and Miss Eliza­
beth Steele to help her. The final 
party, February 24, will include the 
classes of 1938-1945 with Mary Pol- 
lis, chairman, assisted by Ruth 
Boardman, Eleanor Lloyd, Ruth 
Brunn, and Ellen Cerveris.
Five Pledges Initiated 
Into Delta Delta Delta
On January 19 and 20 five collegi­
ate and five alumna pledges of Del­
ta Delta Delta donned the stars and 
crescent. Following initiation on 
Saturday afternoon, a formal ban­
quet was held at the University 
Club. The banquet was attended by 
a number of distinguished guests, 
actives, pledges, and alumnae of 
the fraternity.
The banquet and initiation cul­
minated the events of Delta week— 
a week of parties, sings, and fun 
when pledges ruled actives.
The new members are: Joy Rae 
Clark, Fay Carpenter, Carol Hen­
son, Georgette Paljug, and Rose­
marie Lang.
The new pledges: Margaret
Logan and Gloria Hilf.
Notice
Basketball will begin about Feb­
ruary 20—get practice hour assign­
ments from the Intramural Office 
in the gymnasium. The competition 
will be open to fraternities and in­
dependent teams — eligibility lists 
will be limited to ten names—en­
tries will be due in before 5 p. m. 
February 6. All those who play will 
have to have a physical card from 
the school doctor. Games will be 
played on Monday and Wednesday 
evenings.
opened the third quarter anxiously, 
and pulled to within five points of 
the Panthers, but the wealth of re-
Kline in the air; Clougherty and 
Theodore assisting
serves from over there rolled them 
under, and a Pitt victory over Tech, 
as usual, was recorded.
Principal evil-doer of the Raiders 
was Hank Zeller, who graduated 
from W & J in 1941. His sinister 
hand accounted for nineteen of 
Pitt’s points. Second in importance 
is a lad named Canterna, who ac­
counted for 13 points. On our side 
of the ledger, Captain Theodore 
again was high scorer with seven­
teen, Kastelas followed with ten, 
ten, and Leo Clougherty got in his 
eight point’s worth.
Pitt G F P Tech G F P
Marder ...3 2 8 Katselas ...4 2 10
Apple .......3 1 7 Clougherty .3 2 8
Jacobson .0 1 1 Theodore ..6 5 17
Morris .... 3 0 6 Klein ............2 1 5
Canternar. 3 7 13 Scioscia ....3 1 7
Zeller .......8 3 19 Morinello ..0 0 0
Cosentino .2 0 4
Garnham .1 1 3
23 15 61 18 11 47
IRC Plans Party For 
Freshmen Tomorrow
A get-acquainted party for the 
freshmen will be held tomorrow 
afternoon in Rec Hall from four to 
six by the International Relations 
Club. Invitations have been issued 
to girls considered by their history 
professors to be qualified for par­
ticipating in the organization. Sev­
eral upper classmen have also been 
invited. The guests will be given a 
glimpse of the activities of the club 
along with fun and refreshments.
The Carnegie chapter of the club 
is affiliated with 1,228 other groups 
Continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Vol .38Nl4Cl VA8V3NJANUARY 30, 194S
Zdito^L AtoncUai/i
This editorial was not written with a personal grudge against any 
member of the ACAC. If one finds himself referred to, either directly or 
indirectly, it is simply because he is a member of the organization in 
question.
Encore to Confusion
Last week, a petition in request of representation on ACAC signed by 
a substantial number of engineers was presented at the council meeting. 
After a heated argument, the request was granted. It was then suggested 
that an election for a publications representative might take place at the 
time of the engineering representative’s election, even though there is now 
such a representative serving on the council who is a member of the consti­
tution committee and, until his continued membership on the council became 
doubtful, was chairman of the elections committee. In the ensuing discus­
sion it was decided that the publications representative must be elected 
by an all school election from the engineering school whether or not he 
was a member of a publication staff. This, in spite of the fact that the 
constitution of ACAC says clearly:
III. REPRESENTATION
A. Election of the representatives to the A. C. A. C. 
shall be conducted by Student Council from each of the 
following civilian groups: (Thereafter, the A. C. A. C. will 
conduct the elections.) Each representative shall have one 
vote: Art School, one representative; Margaret Morrison 
two representatives; Engineering, one representative; Pub­
lications, one representative; Athletics, one representative.
How anyone can misinterpret the phrase <eshall be elected” to mean 
“not necessarily elected” is beyond our limited comprehension. Certainly, 
a person responsible for publication activities on campus should be 
acquainted with publication methods of operation. Moreover, why must 
the publications representative be an engineer when two-thirds of the 
publication staffs are women?
And another thing — why, out of the clear blue sky, must the publica­
tions representative be elected by an all-school election this semester when 
the past representatives were made members of ACAC by virtue of their 
being chairmen of the Publications Committee?
In the August 3, 1943, issue of the Tartan, there appeared this para­
graph: Following the resignation of R. K. Noyes, Merle Wolff was elected 
chairman of the Publications Committee. As such, he will be the commit­
tee’s liason man between it and ACAC.” In the preceding issue, under 
ACAC minutes, we read, “Mr. Noyes moved that his resignation of publi­
cations representative on ACAC be accepted and that he be succeeded by 
Mr. Merle Wolff. Motion carried.” Are we supposed to be stupid enough to 
believe that Mr. Wolff became a member of ACAC through an all-school 
election?
Last semester, Tom Bokman became the publications representative on 
ACAC, also because of his chairmanship of the Publications committee. 
When the Scottie, of which he was editor, folded, he was automatically 
withdrawn from the Publications Committee and consequently from ACAC, 
thus contradicting the council’s present assertion that the publications 
representative need not necessarily be a member of publications. The week 
after Mr. Bokman’s withdrawal, ACAC minutes said: Mr. Ernest Lowen- 
stein, co-editor of the Tartan will represent the Publications Committee 
on ACAC. Just like that! When Mr. Lowenstein vacated his chair in No­
vember, the Publications Committee sent Leonard Lerman to be its repre­
sentative. The council accepted him. And now, the council members want 
an all-school election for a publications representative, according as they 
say, to their constitution.
Perhaps ACAC members don’t realize that the constitution they are 
now using was put into existence in May, 1943, and governed the placement 
of Noyes, Wolff, Bokman and Lowenstein. Whatever reason they may have 
for their recent action, they had better remember that the student body 
will not stand for any juggling of words in an ambiguous constitution. We 
hope the framers of the new constitution now in preparation take note of 
this situation and insure against similar recurrences.
We here challenge the members of ACAC to prove why an publications 
representative must be elected by an all-school election when the athletic 
representative becomes a member through the intramural board, the MMCC 
representative becomes a member through the MM Senate and so forth, re­
membering that the same regulation in the constitution governs all these rep- 
recentativesAnd before they answer this challenge we suggest that they acquaint 
themselves with their constitution, something they have neglected to do if 
their performance at the last meeting is to be considered indicative.
The members of ACAC owe to their constituents an explanation of 
their unseemly behavior. The constituents await an answer.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
itafl; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed a* necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
fBON'E MAYFLOWER 2600
Schenlev Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.PHONE 8CHENXEY 4551
CtCPfteSCNTEO
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison Ave. New York. N. Y. 
Ckicaco * Boston C kic ao*kcB s tsn Fsahcisco
Entered aa secona-cias« matter in the Pittsburgh 
Published weekl/ during school year,
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief ........... Emerson 1808
Business Manager.........Jackson 9896
Post Office under the Aet of March S. 1M78. 
except holidays ana ex»min*tUB periods.
Editor’s Gratitude
On page 1 there appears a release on Student Elections which was 
received from the Dean’s office. It indicates that the administration wants 
a fair election, one without any misinterpretation or erroneous direction. 
The Carnegie Tartan is flattered to know that after several years of writing 
up school elections in little notice boxes, the administration decides that 
it can do a better job by writing its own story.
One of the Girls
Although Pat Walker is register­
ed as a Senior student in the Drama 
Department of Carnegie Tech, few 
people—other than her classmates 
or her audiences—know mudi about 
her. Because she is quiet, reserved, 
unassuming, her worth is not mar-
Sabscription Price fl.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ............................................................................................... Adeline C. Herlick
queed, not trumpeted, not even pub­
licized; yet as a sensitive and sin­
cere artist in her chosen field, she 
is deserving and noteworthy. On 
stage Pat Walker is not Pat Walker 
but rather the character whom she 
is portraying; however, upon for­
saking the footlights, she resumes 
her own individual identity — not 
the residual accumulation of a 
variety of stage personalities.
As is often the case with artists, 
the seeds from which sprouted her 
dramatic inclinations were sown 
when Pat was still a gangling 
youngster. Then as her experiences 
in her chosen field increased — ex-
Dirt Colymn . . .
Question No. 2. Who is Tami’s 
grandmother? That n’ his surprise 
“plays” have all the women wonder­
ing! Speaking of wondering, we are 
all interested to know what the 
opening of the DU house will be 
like; why petite little Louise Rich­
ard carries pictures of only one man 
in her wallet; whether Johnnie Van- 
such will get his queen (via the 
Drama Department); how Scottie 
reacted to Fangs; did Bobbie Jones 
approve of “imer style” wooing.
Question No. 2. Do Tech women 
have what it takes? For the answer 
to this one, just gander at all the 
luxurious diamonds placed recently 
on beautiful hands — Pat Turton, 
Sue Scott, Dottie Barrett, Pat Walk­
er, Tassie Truxell to mention a few.
Question No. 3. Do campus kiddies 
like surprises? See how you digest 
these! Didja’ know that . . . Rea 
Simon was married on Sunday? 
. . . that Cookie has not yet recov­
ered from her Christmas visitor 
. . . that Casey still pines for Lucey 
. . . that Pinky has returned Pete’s
. . . Pat Walker
periences which included lessons in 
expression and roles in community 
theatre presentations—that embryo 
ambition grew, crystallized, and led 
her to Carnegie Tech. Here she has 
absorbed much of that which she is 
returning bountifully to her audi­
ences. Here Pat has acted in numer­
ous departmental presentations, 
presentations, which include sev­
eral Shakespearean dramas, Noel 
Coward’s “Tonight at 8:30”, “The 
Way of the World”, and, “The Old 
Maid”. Of all her roles she enjoyed 
most portraying Juliet in “Romeo 
and Juliet”, Helena in “All’s Well 
That Ends Well”, aged woman in 
“Mornings at 7:00”. Of all her lines, 
this is the one she deems most beau­
tiful—from “Romeo and Juliet”: 
“My bounty is boundless as the sea; 
My love as deep; the more I give to 
thee
The more I have, for both are 
infinite.”
Having learned her art fully and 
thoroughly here, the future proffers 
yet more learning, more experience, 
and illimitable growth. On the 
legitimate stage in New York, per­
haps a Repertory Theatre, she will 
continue to bestow upon her audi­
ences those gifts of sensitivity, un­
derstanding, grace, and poise for 
which we already know her. Yes, we 
know her thus, as a student and an 
artist pursuing her interests and 
ambitious, unpretentiously prefer­
ring to be with her many friends, to 
sing with them; to talk with them; 
preferring a Tschaikowsky record or 
a Shaw novel; preferring these com­
monplace pastimes to the glitter and 
glamour that may befall her.
“She is too subtle for thee; and her 
smoothness,
Her very silence and her patience 
Speak to the people ...”
Kappa Sig pin . . . that Tyke Minor 
and Dave Aspinwall are tied up to 
gals back home . . . that Dick Hun- 
toon’s howls are still being pick­
ed up by listening ears on Forbes 
Street . . . that ’44’s Delt President, 
Merle Wolff, was home on furlough 
from Aviation Cadet training Fri­
day?
Question No. 4. Has anyone taken 
note of latest campus needs? . . . 
Rum for the cokes in the canteen 
Southern accents like Smokey’s . . . 
more ties like the one the Delts gave 
Doc Willis . . . more parties like 
the last two Beta shindings (we 
hear that they start off with a bang)
. . . more dates like Poskins and 
Andy have . . more dorms ac­
commodated by the curb service 
Whitfield gets . . . more red heads 
like Miller . . . clean walks so that 
there will be no more broken feet 
and sprained ankles — Ha! Dottie 
and Dottie? . . . more lovin’ . . . 
more livin’ . . . more laughin’ . . . 
more gossip! You make it and we’ll 
tell your secrets to the world!

---------------------------------------------------

JANUARY 30, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
n ,i Th Mike And Leo LostOne of the Boys By Baskelball s ,From the Canteen . . .
. . . Byron Finkelstein
Of course you’ve seen him! He’s 
the guy who runs out towels to our 
winded basketball team during the 
time-outs. This is one of his lesser 
tasks, though, for he also acts as 
water boy and assistant coach. Some 
of these more menial tasks he dele­
gates to his assistant, Robin Dawes, 
but retains his position of assistant 
coach exclusively. It all started at 
the Case game. Tech was coasting 
along with a nice lead, when Byron 
(that’s this kid’s name) wormed his 
way up beside Max and confided:
“This one’s in the bag, Max.”
“Ya think so?” asked the amazed 
Hannum.
“Sure. And you’d better take out 
Leo, ’cause he might get hurt.” 
Byron added. Catching the spirit of 
things, Max replaced Clougherty 
and asked if there were any further 
instructions.
“Well, Klein’s been playing pretty 
hard, and he looks tired, so you 
might replace him.” Max put Mor- 
inello back in.
“Are there any further instruc­
tions?” Max asked curiously.
“Not right away, but I’ll think of 
something.”* * *
After this parley earned him the 
title of assistant coach, a cold, cruel 
editor sent out some sucker to inter­
view him. Said sucker garnered the 
following information: His name is 
Byron Finkelstein. He is eleven 
years old. He goes to the Wightman 
grade school. There was a woman in 
his life, but his great romance was 
dashed when she moved away from 
where he had lived. It took some 
arm-twisting to discover that she 
was a blonde named Beverly, but 
once this was out, he poured out his 
whole story. Reasons of discretion 
prevent its publishing here. Any­
way, he is one of the most informed 
persons in the field of sports you’ve 
ever met. He can rattle off scores in 
any sport, of teams playing in 
remote regions of which the aver­
age person has never heard. This 
drew us into a long discussion of 
sports, beginning with hockey, and 
finally stopped in the middle of a 
crocodile shoot in Florida. And 
sports isn’t all this kid knows. He 
can discuss any phase of politics or 
world affairs with amazing alacrity
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Alliei
Tomorrow evening’s • festivities 
will be the last for two of Tech’s 
most honored sons before they lay 
down their earthly burden to take 
up the sword of Uncle Sam. To be 
specific, both Captain Mike Theo­
dore and Leo Clougherty will be 
playing their last game in Tartan 
togs.
These two boys have come a long 
way since meeting each other. Just 
one year ago they were opponents, 
Mike’s Wilmerding High team 
against Leo’s East Pittsburgh. After 
the season they would get together 
to play wildcat ball and local tour­
nament stuff, and finally they en­
tered Tech together. When they 
showed up for basketball, Hannum’s 
big, brown, setter-like eyes gleam­
ed fiendishly. Successive workouts 
convinced Max that the boys could 
really be built into a ball club, and 
they all went to work. There were 
six long weeks of practice before 
the opening game, and a few weeks 
thereafter to get the team smoothed 
out.
Needless to say, the loss to the 
basketball team will be grevous. 
Mike constitutes a good deal of the 
scoring punch, having over a hun­
dred points to his credit already 
this year. Leo is the sparkplug of 
the group, and his sensational floor 
play makes him a favorite of both 
fans and players alike. Maxie has 
only the highest praise for both 
these boys, and probably will be 
confined to bed for a few days after 
they leave. We know everyone will 
miss them, so here’s a terrific wish 
for the best of luck, guys. We’ll see 
you at the duration plus six.
and understanding. This is because 
he avidly reads PM and Time.
Bryon would like to try for Tech 
when he grows up, but somewhere 
in his past there is a lurking desire 
to be a doctor.
Just keep your eyes open at the 
next home game, that with Alle­
gheny, to see our boy of the week, 
Byron Finkelstein. _________
What record do you think is play­
ed most often in the Canteen juke­
box? Wrong. Not Rum and Coca 
Cola, not Don’t Fence Me In, not 
Beethoven’s Fifth, but If You Are 
But a Dream. Despite the fact that 
it is sung by guess who and his first 
name is Frankie, it is the most pop­
ular of the twenty records now in 
the machine Your Tartan reporter, 
hot on the spot from 9 A. M. until 6 
P. M., reports that If You Are But a 
Dream was played twelve times 
during the day; Rum and Coca Cola 
eight times (four times in a row by 
one persistent person); The Very 
Thought of You, five times; Sleigh- 
ride in July and Backstage at the 
Ballet four times each; Always, Poor 
Butterfly, and Don’t Fence Me In 
three times each; Three Caballeros, 
twice; and I’ll Walk Alone, Sweet 
Dreams Sweetheart, Caprice, I 
Found a New Baby, and Sing Me a 
Song of Texas once each.
Each time I heard Rum and Coca 
Cola I thought to myself, “That isn’t 
a bad idea.” And each time I went 
to the coke machine and put in
11 %c. (You have to tip the little 
man inside to get rum mixed in.) 
After eight such delightful drinks 
my thoughts began to be a little 
muddled. I imagined that I was on 
a lovely Sleighride in July, singing 
A Song of Texas and casually med­
itating on interstellar spaces. Soon 
I came upon Three Caballeros warb­
ling Don’t Fence Me In as only true
caballeros can warble. I stopped my 
reindeer and offered them a ride to 
the nearest town They piled onto the 
sleigh and in a short time we were 
the best of friends. I asked them 
what they intended to do in town 
and one of them answered confi­
dentially. “Well, it’s this way. I 
Found a New Baby, a ballet dancer 
named Uoor Butterfly, and I have 
a date to meet her Backstage at the 
Ballet ” Of course this interested me 
because I am mad about ballet and 
also because I have a secret passion 
for butterflies. As soon as I saw the 
dancer I realized that she was the 
only one for me. So I quietly dis­
posed of the caballeros by tapping 
them on the cranium with a sledge 
hammer which I carry in my Util­
ity Belt for just such emergencies. I 
then confessed my love to the danc­
er. “The Very Thought of You makes 
my heart turn back-flips. If you will 
not come with me, I’ll Walk Alone, 
Always, because there is no other 
one but you. Marry me and I will 
indulge your every Caprise. I can’t 
believe that you are real: If You Are 
But a Dream, I shall go insane.” 
When I noticed that my friends the 
caballeros were regaining conscious­
ness, I hastened to conclude the in­
terview. “Sweet Dreams Sweetheart 
—I’ll see you again some time.” I 
didn’t get out of there any too soon, 
for it was 6 o’clock and the Canteen 
was closing.
By A. W. and M. P. B.
Things to Remember . . .
Watch for the dope . . .
Save March 8, 9, 10—Carnegie Tech 
Days at the Hed Cross Blood Bank 
Heart Hop on February 10 . . .
IRC party tomorrow . . . 
Intramural Basket Ball entries . . . 
Basketball game at home tomorrow 
night with Allegheny . . . 
Women’s Clan Benefit Bridges . .
Fih muff/M! HE NEEDt YOU!
BuvuiflR Bonos
You And Your
Out-of-Town Friends 
will find comfortable 
accommodations
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
lie sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
MAyflower 7700
You’re my kind... Have a Coca-Cola
TMi
... or allies enjoy a friendly pause
Friendliness enters the picture at the words Have a Coke. It’s a 
happy custom, everywhere, for people to meet together over 
frosty bottles of ice-cold Coca-Cola. In many lands around the 
globe, Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,—has become 
an everyday high-sign of friendliness among people of good will.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
vJOCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA
3
i5Ot
Ô
It's natural for popular name* 
to acquire friendly abbrevia­
tions. That’s why you hear 
Coca-Cola called Coke.

---------------------------------------------------

4THi CARNEGIE TARTANJANUARY 30, 1945The PlaidCheers...
Meet Ruth McGr aw JßetteM. ta the &<AUo*
Council’s Vice Pres
Everyone has used the expression, 
“She’s a good sport”—“one of the 
best”—“a regular gal.” If you take 
a total of these, you have an accu­
rate description of this week’s per­
sonality, Ruth McGraw. To her 
friends, of course, she’s known as 
“Ruthie,” and is characterized by a 
pair of twinkling blue eyes and a lit-
tle toss of her head when she sets off 
in an effort to accomplish some par­
ticular task.
A newcomer to Tech last year, 
Ruthie became interested in work­
ing for the PLAID. Since the first 
evening she entered the PLAID of­
fice, she has been one of the most 
faithful Staff members and now 
holds the title of Associate Editor. 
However, she is also known in 
many other capacities about the 
campus, for she is the owner of an 
Insignia Award and has been ap­
pointed Vice-President of Council.
It might seem logical to conclude 
that this sprightly young miss de­
votes all her leisure hours to Car­
negie Tech, but this is not so. Dur­
ing the past year, Ruthie has com­
pleted her Nurses’ Aide training and 
has spent many useful hours at St. 
Francis’ Hospital in one of the most 
helpful and unselfish ways of serv­
ing humanity and helping the war 
effort.
During the day, Ruthie works for 
the Blaw-Knox Company, but oc­
casionally, when she isn’t busy 
working at any of these various oc­
cupations, she tries to find time to 
dance and crochet.
Indeed, Council gained a loyal 
supporter when Ruth McGraw reg­
istered as a student in the College of 
Fine Arts.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
New* Editor 
Mary de Maria 
Associate Editors
Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Page edited by Evening; School Stadents of Car­
negie Institute of Technology. All views o» 
•pinions expressed in editorial eolwnn are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff '
Olive Baumgardner Elaine Martin
Florence Chorba Prank Mihelich
Virginia Ehnt Dorothy Papa
Thelma Kitchen Milton Ryan
Irene Koeroer Dorothy Shields
S. W. Mardnizyn Lota Schultz
The old motto, “Give credit where 
credit is due,” certainly applies to 
the cooperative and efficient main­
tenance staff of the Building and 
Grounds Department of C. I. T. The 
quick response of this department 
towards improving a better lighting 
system in Study Room 130, Indus­
tries Hall, in answer to our request, 
deserves due praise and apprecia­
tion in behalf of the entire student 
body.
So here’s to our Superintendent, 
Mr. Keck, and his crew for this 
helpful gesture towards the con­
venience and comfort of the evening 
student.
A Grateful Student.
Tech’s basketball team is not sup­
ported as ¿well as it merits by the 
students. Cheering at the games is 
too often weak and uninspired. 
Since this may be due merely to 
lack of knowledge of the cheers, the 
Tartan is printing a list of Carnegie 
cheers.
There are seven cheers to learn. 
All seven may not be used in one 
game, but students should know 
them all well. They are:
SKIBO
Ski-i-i-bo! Ski-i-i-bo!
Hoo-o-o-oorah. Hoo-o-o-rah! 
Carnegie! Tech!
Team, team, team!
Being a new student, who has 
read every edition of the PLAID 
during the last semester, I want to 
thank you and your staff for the 
suggestive articles advising evening 
students about the fine swimming 
facilities available at Tech.
I felt that attending the pool 
would be an ideal way of meeting 
and making friends here, but I’ve 
gone to the pool for the last three 
Wednesday evenings and found that 
I’m about the only evening student 
there. I had built up high hopes of 
having a grand time, and then came 
the rude awakening — no fellow 
evening students with whom to en­
joy the pool.
I know that the lack of swimmers 
is not your fault because you have 
tried to arouse enthusiasm for 
swimming, but apparently to no 
avail. Perhaps a plea of a lonesome 
swimmer will enduce a few more 
people to come out and swim.
Come on in, the water’s fine.
Attention! Zntfineesti.
Just what is it that the Engineers 
and all other male students of Car­
negie Tech have been waiting for? 
You guessed it—The Thirtieth An­
nual Engineers’ Banquet. And the 
date—well—it is April 7, 1945. All 
students will enjoy the good fellow­
ship, excellent food, and other (?) 
attractions.
Plans are now under way to make 
this one of the best banquets held 
by the group, so be on the lookout 
for further details in later issues 
of the Plaid.
9*t Mettuvu&m
Word has been received by The 
Plaid that Pfc G. Wayne Jones was 
killed in a plane crash near Yuma, 
Arizona, on December 25.
Pfc Jones was a graduate of Per­
ry High School. Following his grad­
uation he attended classes at Car­
negie and completed an evening 
course in Mechanical Drafting. Lat­
er he registered in the evening 
course of Mechanical Engineering 
and was attending classes until his 
enlistment in the Air Corps in 1941.
The Plaid expresses its deep sym­
pathy to the members of his family: 
Mrs. Jane N. Irwin Jones, his moth­
er, and Mrs. Dorothy Kaechele, his 
sister, both of whom reside in Wex­
ford.
THE INSTITUTE 
C-A-R-N-E-GIE 
C-A-R-N-E-GIE 
Rah! Rah!
Car-ne-gie In-sti-tute of Tech-nol- 
o-gy (Clap-clap)
Car-ne-gie In-sti-tute of Tech-nol- 
o-gy (Clap-clap)
R-r-r-rah!!
GO TARTAN
Go, go, go, Tartan!
Fight, fight, fight, Tartan! 
Go, Tartan, fight, Tartan! 
Fight, Tartan, team!!
IRON ’EM OUT 
Iron ’em out!
Iron ’em out!
Iron ’em out!
Smoo-o-ooth—
THE WELCOME CHEER 
Yeah, (Slippery Rock)!
Yeah, (Slippery Rock)! 
Carnegie says hello!
THE ENGINEER’S YELL 
E to the x, dy dx,
E to the y, dy;
Cosine, secant,
Cosine, sine,
3.14159
Rah, Carnegie!
Rah, Rah, Rah!
Lets have real cheering at the 
next game!
SEEMILLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
SC. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
ISiil
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MKMBKW FBDIRAL DEPOSIT IN SUM A NCI CORPORATION f
IRC Party
Continued from page 1 
throughout the world which are un­
der the sponsorship of the Carnegie 
Endowment Fund for International 
Peace. The group was begun on 
campus in 1935 under the direction 
of Mrs. Maybell K. Chapman, who 
is now its sponsor.
The purpose of the group is to 
stimulate discussion among college 
groups. The endowment imposes no 
restrictions on the group other than 
that it should grant complete free­
dom of speech to its members. An­
nual I. R. C. Conferences at which 
students from many colleges may 
meet and exchange ideas are held 
each year in colleges in the eastern 
area. Carnegie endowment fur­
nishes a fortnightly news summary 
as well as copies of the best boks 
on current events published each 
year to the club. Books received by 
the club in the past few years may 
be found on a shelf reserved for 
them in Margaret Morrison library.
The International Relations Club 
is open to all girls on campus and 
will welcome anyone interested to 
its gathering tomorrow.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
