FOOTBALL SATURDAY 
CARNEGIE VS.
ALLEGHENYL
.HELP THE BAND TO GET 
KILTS FOR 
NOTRE DAME GAME
VOL. XVII. NO. 7CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OK TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1922
CARNEGIE BAND 
TO HAVE KILTS 
BY FINAL GAME
Band Will Appear in Brand 
New Kiltie Outfits at the 
Notre Dame Game. Con­
tract Has Already Been Let
DONATIONS NEEDED
That Carnegie Tech’s Band -will 
•soon realize their dreams of a true 
Carnegie costume seems now beyond 
the shadow of a doubt. Ever since 
the idea of a Kiltie Band was con­
ceived some months ago, the student 
body has been behind the plan with 
a marked degree of enthusiasm, and 
various organizations and meetings 
•about the campus have pledged the 
idea their entire support. The com­
mittee appointed by the Student 
Council has investigated prices and 
lias now definitely given the -con­
tract for the costumes to a Niagara 
Falls concern, who promise to turn 
them out with the utmost possible 
speed.
The samples presented by the con­
cern have been appproved as an ex­
cellent bargain by local authorities, 
and the committee assures The Tar­
tan that the outfits will be entirely 
complete and as picuresque as ever 
graced the streets of Glasgow. There 
will be no “piecing out” with odd 
hits of uniforms as was originally 
planned, but it is predicted that the 
first sight of the best band Carnegie 
Tech lias had for years garbed in the 
national costume of our founder will 
be one to make every true Techite 
swell with pride.
All of the money, however, has not 
yet been raised. Part of the neces­
sary sum has been pledged by the 
Student Council and the Student Ac> 
tivities Board, but a sizable portion
THISTLE WILL PUBLISH
ONLY PICTURES TAKEN BY
OFFICIAL PHOTOGRAPHER
The official photographer for the 
1923 Thistle is Mr. Turgeon of Johns­
town. No other photographer is tak­
ing any pictures, whatsoever, for this 
year’s year-book. “Jerry” Slye, of the 
Thistle staff, will accompany Mr. Tur- 
geon when all group photos are taken. 
The Thistle Board wishes to empha­
size the fact that last year’s photog­
rapher has nothing to do with this 
year’s book.
BULLETIN BOARD 
PLAN INSTITUTED
Y.M.C.A. DRIVE 
FOR MEMBERS 
FALLS SHORT
Complete Returns Havel’Not 
Yet Been Compiled. Have 
Signed So Far Three Hun­
dred Fifty New Members
SOME CARDS NOT IN
Student to Collect All Notices 
Each Day From Dean’s 
Office
Beginning Monday, October 30, a 
new plan for posting notices on the 
campus will go into effect. The Board 
of Student Activities and the Student 
Council .will jointly pay a responsible 
student to make a daily circuit of the 
¦bulletin boards. (Saturdays, Sundays, 
and holidays excepted) who will do 
all the posting on the campus, and 
will remove obsolete notices. Last 
year a special committee of the Ex­
ecutive Board, consisting of represen­
tatives from the Student Council, the 
Faculty and the Administrative Staff, 
made recommendations looking to the 
betterment of the buleltin board situa­
tion, which were approved by the Ex­
ecutive Board. The boards have re­
cently been erected,' and the plan is 
now to become operative.
Under the new arrangement no 
posting of notices will be permitted 
anywhere 011 the Institute buildings 
or grounds except on the. seven 
boards' listed below: Outside boards
—In front of Gymnasium, center of 
Campus, entrance of driveway to Ma-i
cliinery Hall; inside boards—In Cafe- 
.teria, Central Building, basement; 
Science Building, lower miiln corri- 
Tiie committee nas iunen n mr ior: Machinery Hall, main corridor.
granted that the student body is en­
thusiastic about the plan, and looks 
to every man and woman at Carne­
gie Tech to back the thing up with 
a small portion of his or her person­
al finances. The true test of spirit 
is a man’s pocketbook, and all the 
:(Continued on Page Three.)
Money Needed For 
Band Instruments
Propose Increasing Enroll­
ment to Sixty-Five
Today the band, is an organization 
of about forty-five' men. However, 
tbere are enough men on the campus 
who are .able to play to bring the 
number up to sixty-Uve pieces, had 
tho band the' instruments for them. 
There are a set of band instruments 
on the campus owned by the school 
which have not been used for three 
years, and which are deteriorating 
through non-ijse. With these instill­
ments at their disposal the band 
could easily increase its number to 
sixty-five pieces.
But according to best information 
these instruments can not be at the 
disposal of the band unless that or­
ganization buys them. The price 
asked is one-half the original pur­
chased price. They were bought diir- 
the war for the S. A. T. 'C. Band and 
the prices of musical instruments 
were very high at that time. But 
the band can not buy them. Its bud­
get from the Student Activities Board 
is something like seven hundred dol­
lars per year. This has to buy. the 
music, pay for instruction and pay 
for part of the expense of the Penn 
State trip. There are numerous items 
of expense such as repairing of in­
struments, a few new uniforms each 
year, etc.
The band is a school organization 
and' whatever it does, it is for the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Three Carnegie Tech Men 
in Architectural Contest
first floor; Industries Building,, main 
corridor; Arts College* main corridor, 
first floor; M. M. C. C., main corridor, 
first floor.
A feature of the new boards will be 
their division into (1) official notices, 
(2) student notices (old), and (3) stu­
dent notices (new). By this method 
a student will only have to glance 
each day at the Number 3 section to 
find out what has been most recently 
posted, without having to scan the 
entire board. The man in charge of 
the boards will make daily transfers 
of notices from the "new” to the 
“old” section.
The plan requires that no notices 
shall .be printed on stock that is lar­
ger than 11x15 inches, that every no­
tice, large or small, must carry in the 
lower left-hand corner the date 011 
which it is to be posted, and the one 
on which it is to be removed. Notices 
should be printed whenever possible, 
or well lettered. This requirement is 
to help give the boards a presentable 
appearance. Permission must be se­
cured from the Dean of Men for post­
ers larger than the foregoing size; or 
for any posting 011 the campus other 
than on the- seven boards enumerated 
above.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Juniors Are Preparing
For Annual Banquet
When the Jury of Architects in New 
York will assemble to award the 
Stewardon Scholarship Prize for the 
best solution and design of “A Nation­
al Tennis Club,” they will find the 
Architectural Department of Carnegie 
Tech well represented.
Only seven men were picked to en­
ter this competition, two acting as al­
ternates. Out of this number, two 
men, and one man acting as an alter­
nate, were picked from Carnegie 
Tech.
These men were selected by compe­
tition upon submitting preliminary 
solutions on “A Hermitage.”
It is indeed gratifying to know that 
Carnegie Tech, according to these re­
sults, will stand out at the final judg­
ment, at which time their drawings 
will without doubt be worthy of men­
tion. The winner of the prize will be 
awarded a thousand dollar scholar­
ship which entitles him to pursue his 
studies in Architecture in this country 
or any foreign country as shall be 
prescribed.
The men representing Carnegie 
are G. Pauly, Otto M. Olsen and C. W. 
Hunt, acting as alternate.
Well fellows, we’re getting all set 
for the 'best Junior banquet yet. The 
committee has been appointed as fol­
lows: S. Dyke, chairman; R. Crues,
Lowstuter, Brace, J. Campbell, and D. 
Schoerke." The committee has not 
been idle, and already has plans for 
the banquet. They propose to hold 
it in the city, where a good place may 
be secux-ed, and where it will be handy 
for everyone. They already have a 
place in mind where the gang can 
get together and thoroughly enjoy it­
self. It will be a surpi'ise to every­
one if this place may be secured, and 
all indications point that way. Some 
novel entertainment is also being 
worked up. It is hinted that some 
local talent may appear to entertain 
the boys.
The date as yet has not been defin­
itely decided upon, but it is thought 
that sometime between Thanksgiving 
and Chi'istmas would be very oppor­
tune as there is a notable lull in 
activities at that time. If the banquet 
is not held then it would probably 
have to be put off until the spring 
when there is so much other activity,
The membership drive for the Y. M. 
C. A. ended last Friday. All the re­
sults have not been turned in as yet, 
so it is impossible to give the exact 
results of the campaign. The dona­
tions turned in amount to about two- 
thirds the sum that the “Y” expected 
to raise. Three hundred and fifty 
members were secured which is about 
one-half the expected number. The 
daily proress was shown at various 
places on the campus.
The University of Pittsburgh Y. M. 
C. A. held their campaign at the same 
time and the results of the two drives 
were recorded at both schools. Here 
we had the results recorded by two 
thermometers which were placed in 
front of the College of Fine Arts. At 
Pitt, the Y. M. C. A. had a gridiron 
laid out on the campus and markers 
on it ranging from zero to one hun­
dred per cent of their quota. Football 
dummies representing the two colleges 
were placed on the field to show the 
results graphically.
The Pitt quota was $3,500, while the 
Carnegie Tech quoto was $3,000. At 
the end of the campaign the Pitt man 
was a little past the 65 yard line 
while the Tech man was a little be­
hind it. In other Avords Pitt obtained 
about two-thirds of their goal while 
Carnegie did not do quite so well.
All the section leaders and solicitors 
are urged to turn in their results and 
cards to Secretary Davis as soon as 
possible.
The Y. M. C. A. is increasing in pop­
ularity every day 011 tho campus. It 
is up to the students to support it be- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
DEANS BROWN AND TARBELL 
WILL HOLD RECEPTIONS FOR 
FRESHMAN OF ALL COLLEGES
Following the usual custom, the 
Dean of Women and the Dean of Men 
will give two iuformal receptions with 
dancing, for the men and women of 
the first year classes in all colleges 
of the Institute. These events will be 
held this year in Carnegie Union from 
4:30 to 6:00 :o’clock on Wednesday 
afternoon, November first, and on 
Monday afternbon, November 6th. The 
Dean of Women and the Dean of Men 
herewith cordially invite all members 
of the first yeay classes to these recep­
tions. On November, first the men in 
the College of .Fine Arts and the Col­
lege of Industries are invited, and on 
November sixth the men in the Col­
lege of Engineering. O11 account of 
their smaller number, the freshmen 
women are invited for both after­
noons. No personal invitations will 
be sent and it is hoped that each will 
take this invitation for himself or her­
self.
¡JUNIOR PROM 
AT SCHENLEY 
HOTEL, FEB. 2
Special Assessment of $1.50 
to be Levied on Juniors to 
Determine Number That 
Will Attend
TICKETS OUT FOR 
PENN STATE TRIP
Everybody Going' to Penn 
State Urged to Buy Pre­
liminary Ticket
COMMITTEE APPOINTED 
FOR FOOTBALL BANQUET
The executive committee of the 
Varsity Clan held a meeting in the 
Graduate Manager’s office on Tuesday 
evening, October 24th, to discuss 
plans for the annual banquet, which 
is held at the end of the football 
season each year. Preliminary plans 
were made and a committee was ap­
pointed to meet on Wednesday even­
ing, November 1st, at 7:30 P. M. in 
the Y. M. C. A. (?lub Room, to discuss 
the policy of this year’s banquet and 
to make the necessary plans. The 
committee consists of the following 
members: General chairman, C. A.
Colmery; Secretary, H. G. Nichol, Jr.
Program and Entertainment: Chair­
man, "Denny” Casey; C. W. Hatch.
Reception: , Chairman, “Buddy”
Overend.
Hotel Arrangement: Chairman,
“Bill” Moorehead; “Pete” DeMuth, 
Art“ Leete.
Publicity: I-I. W. Minnemeyer,
Chairman; “Billie” I-Iittner, “Eddie” 
Hirsch.
Financial: Chairman, “Tubby”
Lain.-
Nominations: Chairman, “Thor”
Engstrom.
Did Carnegi’e steam roller Grove 
City Saturday? Those who were 
there said so and they saw some real 
playing too. And what did we do to 
Washington and Jefferson? That’s 
history.
But the fact remains that we’re go­
ing to do same to State in the best 
game that our own team has ever put 
up. We’re going to “Beat iState” and 
tho feeling of joy that they get who 
see the game would be worth any sum 
of money. In fact it will be one of 
those joys which cannot be measured 
in money—like love (?)
Not only that, but there will bo .the 
additional pleasure of the trip to Penn 
State and back. There Is a natural 
instinct in most of us to move from 
one place to another—to travel. And 
also to be with a crowd having tho 
same feelings {as ourselves. Boy, 
won’t that be a grand and glorious 
feeling? You tell’em!! You’ll never 
forget it.
Everybody is going because it isn’t 
going to cost much—ono dollar down 
this week and five-twenty next week.
How often have you spent two dol­
lars for an ordinary dance? Just 
forego a couple of dances or a few 
bits of candy at SldDo, or don’t go 
downtown on Saturdays for a few 
weeks. Oh there are a thousand ways 
to get the money and put it in on 
this trip to Penn State with tho rest 
of your brothers and sisters of Tech. 
Wo want a thousand—yes a thousand. 
We want to show Penn State and tlio 
whole country just what school spirit 
is. We’ve got the host team In tho 
land and we want everybody else to 
know it. It does pay to advertise.
Think what the team gives. You’d 
like to give something too. Give your­
self the biggest time of the yoar.
Let’s have one big celebration. The 
(Continued on Pago Three.)
TICKET SALE DEC. 1
Mid-West Club Invités
Eligible Co-eds to Join
REV. BUDLONG CONDUCTS
THIRD CHAPEL SERVICES|
Tuesday marked the third week of 
the voluntary non-sectarian chapel 
services at Carnegie institute of 
Technology. The services were held 
at noon, and Rev. F. C. Budlong of 
the Ascension Episcopal Church, con­
ducted the services and addressed the 
students. Dr. Thomas S. Baker, act­
ing president, read from the scrip­
ture.
A meeting of the Mid-West Club 
was held Tuesday night in the “Y” 
Club Room at 124-C Industries.
The matter of Thanksgiving enter­
tainment for the members of the club 
was taken up. At this point Presi­
dent Olsen informed the meeting that 
there are about fifteen co-eds eligible 
as members of the club, and that the 
co-op'eration of school officials had 
been obtained so that now it is only, 
necessary to ask them to join. A 
committee was appointed to meet 
with the girls before the next meet­
ing when it is hoped that the girls 
will attend. Messrs. Olsen, Travis, 
Bamberger and Hertzman were ap­
pointed to meet with the girls. It 
was then decided that the meeting 
dates be set at the first and third 
Sunday of each month.
The matter of a recognition pin 
was taken up and referred to a com­
mittee consisting of Messrs. Bam-; 
berger, Krogli and Travis who will 
report at the next meeting.
Preparations are under way for 
the annual Junior Prom, which is one 
of the biggest social functions of the 
school year. Two all-important ques­
tions relative to the staging of the 
Prom, have been settled. Tlio place 
is the 'Schenley Hotel. The time is 
February 2, 1923.
The General Committee, composed 
of Pat Ryan, chairman; Frank Gore, 
secretary, and Bergluna, treasurer, 
has announced that, in order to sue- 
cesfully .prepare for this important 
event, some estimate must be obtain 
ed of the number wno are going to 
attend. Accordingly a special assess­
ment of $1.50 will be levied upon tlio 
members of the Junior classes of all 
the colleges. This assessment will bo 
collected through the respective class 
treasurers. The general chairman 
urges all Juniors to fall in behind the 
movement to make this year’s Junior 
Prom, an event long to be remem­
bered.
Because of the large amount, FOT 
work attendant upon the production 
of such a large and colorful affair as 
the Junior Prom., the chairman has 
named a number of sub-committees 
Who will have special work to do. 
The personnel of these sub-commit 
tees ‘includes: Publicity, Rollings
worth; Ticket Sales, Johnson; Music, 
Sanford; Program and Decorations, 
Roy; Favors, Grosse; Dinner, Ooro.
The selection of a good orchestra 
is under consideration. A number 
of high-class orchestras aro being 
considered and tho ono that is finally 
chosen will bo a good ono. Tho pre­
liminary ticket snlo for the ovont 
will start December 1.
(Continued on Page Three)
STUDENT CHEERING BODY
TO HAVE RESERVED SEATS
IN CENTER OF BLEACHERS
Throughout tho rest of the season 
there will be special seats in tho stu­
dent section reserved for students. 
Those seats will bo in the center on 
each side of tlio band. By this ar­
rangement it is hoped to increase the 
volume of the student cheering. There 
have been so many outsiders mixed 
in with students that it is necessary 
for the cheer leaders to spread out 
the entire length of thé bleachers in 
order that every student may follow 
a clieer leader, and this is impossible 
during the game on account of tho 
narrow space between tho stands and 
the field.
STUDENT COUNCIL TO 
PLAN STATE RALLY
Point System Committee Re­
ports. Carnegie Day to be 
Held on Nov. 24th
SCIENCE ASSEMBLY HEARS 
C. W. PRICE ON SAFETY
Mr. C. W. Price, secretary of tho 
National Safety Committee, spoko last 
Wednesday on tlio subject'of safety, 
at tho Science Assombly. Although 
'Safety Woolc is over, his mossago nood 
not be forgotten. Tho idea ol! Safety 
Week was to convince the pooplo of 
Allegheny County that most accidents 
are preventable, and this Idea may bo 
carried out all yoar.
Safoty is Indispensable to olllcloncy 
and wolt’aro in industry and tho re­
cent educational safoty plan has beon 
universally adopted In tho industrial 
world.
A roprosontativo of tho Duquosno 
Light Company with two assistants 
gave a striking demonstration of 
resuscitation after shock or asphyxia­
tion. Tlio men used tho Scoaffer 
Method of resuscitation which is uni­
versally taught.
As part of the program, the Plebes 
Epply and Gaylor sang tho Alma 
Mater amid tho shouts and cries of 
upper classmen, and Plebe ITuster ren­
dered “Fight for the Glory of Car­
negie.”
Mr. I-I. K. Kirkpatrick urged every­
one to support the “Y” campaign and 
showed how the “Y” was responsible 
for many of the athletic activities, and 
for the Senior Counsellor Plan here 
at Carnegie.
BUFFALO MEN INVITED TO
SCALP AND BLADE SMOKER
Scalp and Blade will hold its first 
social affair of the year next Wednes­
day night at the Sigma Alpha Epsi­
lon House, 4917 Forbes street. This 
will consist of a smoker for ali Buffalo 
men, and the purpose will be to act 
as a means for the new men on the 
campus to get acquainted with the 
upper classmen who also reside in 
Buffalo. Remember the date, Wednes­
day, November 8th; place S. A. E. 
House. Time, 7:30 P. M.
At the last meeting of the Student 
Council a very attractive program 
was arranged for tho next General 
Assombly on November S. Being only 
three days before the Penn State 
game, the assembly will bo in the 
nature of a football rally. Bob Wad­
dell will talk on tho coming} game. 
Jim O’Connor, winner of the fall ten­
nis tournament will be presented 
with the cup by Colonel Brooks.
Tho Council Point System Commit­
tee 'recommended that Konnolh Arn­
old bo appointed chairman of the 
Point System Committee. The recom­
mendation was accepted. Tho follow 
ing members of tho commlttoo wore 
appointed by tho prosidohts of tho 
different school sonatos: 1 Mary 
Spears and Mildred Abel, Margaret 
Morrison; Vincent. Roy and P. S. 
Sload, Arts; F. M. Gore and Clifford 
Zlnn, Industries; Paul Scluiclcor and 
W. E. Kemery, Engineering. Tho du­
ties of tho commlttoe will bo to make 
a rocord or all of tho students partic­
ipating in tho various school activi­
ties. Any studont having more than 
twenty points of activities will huvo 
to drop onough of Ills or her activi­
ties to bring tho total within twonty.
Zolt gave a «1« tailed troamiroi’s re­
port, and an estimated budget of tho 
council’s expenditures for tho yoar. 
It was dodded to glvo to the different 
school senates half of their allotoU 
share of tho Studont Activities I’oo 
now, and the remainder as soon as 
it is possible for the council treasur­
er to turn it over. It was also do- 
cldod that tlio treasurers ol! the 
school sonatos should mako a detail­
ed financial ropert to tho council at 
tho end of I ho school yoar. Any bal­
ance remaining In tho treasury at 
that tlmo should b6 turned over to 
tlio treasurer of tho council.
'Carnoplo Day is In bo hold this 
yoar on Novombor 2-1. Classes will 
bo dlsmlssod from 1.0:30 to 1:30. Sir 
Robert Falknor 1ms been secured to 
dollvor tho address In Carneglo Mu­
sic Hall. Special arrangements have 
been mado for tho students arid seats 
will bo reserved for thorn.
A bill for ton dollars to cover dam­
ages to tho fiag polo was ordered to 
bo paid by tho Freshmen, who woro 
Instrumental in causing the damago.
TARTANS ANNEX 
28-0 VICTORY 
OVER CRIMSONS
Grove City Warriors Battle 
Desperately in Vain Effort 
to Stop Skibos. Place Hope 
on Forward Passing Game
VISITORS SHOW SPIRIT
Senior Counselor-Plebe 
Banquet Tomorrow 6 P.M.
MUSICAL CLUBS ANNOUNCE
RESULTS OF ELECTION
Last Sunday afternoon, October 29, 
the, Musical Clubs held their regular 
meeting. Some new men signed up 
and the clubs are making graat 
strides in the preparation of the sea­
son's program.
The Gleo Club alone numbei*s al­
most one hundred men and it is the 
purpose of Mr. E. Rheil to develop 
one of the finest men’s choruses in 
collegiate circles.
The election of officers followed 
the meeting and the returns are as 
follows: S. Kovak, president; L. R.
Turcotte, manager; R. B. Keller, as­
sistant manager; W. J. Reilly, pub­
licity manager; R. V. Horae, stage 
manager; L. H. Harris, III., Glee Club 
Librarian; W. L. Lyman, Mandolin 
Club Librarian.
DISCUSSED IN THE BEANERY
Tomorrow evening at 0 p. m., the 
Second Senior Councellor and Plebe 
banquet will be held at the Varsity 
Cafeteria. This banquet is for the 
benefit of the Plebes and it is up to 
them to be there. It is certain that ence necessary, 
they received some benefit from the J 5 Mechanical
With more than two full teams of 
husky gridiron warriors and a parade 
of eager rooters, Grove City College 
made their appearance at the Car­
negie Tech Bowl just a few minutes 
before the scheduled thuo for the 
game which meant either a grand vic­
tory for "Chalky” Williamson’s up­
state crimsons or another triumph for 
Coach “Wally” Steffen’s Plaid ma­
chine.
Very truly it may be said of the 
Grove City delegation, that they were 
wrapped up in y confidence of their 
own so much as to predict a complete 
victory ovor one of the most powerful 
teams I11 the country. This illusion 
must have beon partly dispelled after 
the first fifteen minutes of play when 
Robertson bounded over tho goal line 
for the first six points. Comfort fol­
lowed with a placement between the 
bars.
With no less confidence did the 
Tartans’ cheering demonstrate to tho 
team that they were there In numbers 
to encourage them on to a victory.
From tho first lclck-off until the 
final whistle it was quite evident, to 
tho thousands In tho stands just 
which eleven would finally fly the 
highest colors, even though tho visi­
tors did put a few scares into tho 
fighting Skibo playors and onlookers.
Captain Bible of tho opposing team 
somehow managed to pick the pigskin 
out of tho air in a pass which gave 
them their only first down In the first 
quarter. A pair ol’ backs well worth 
considerable mention may bo found 
I11 tho opposing playors, Brian and 
Lapman. Thoso two 111011 aro out of 
their class and should bo playing on 
teams of greater reputation. Any 
man who can ropoatodly tear through 
tho alort Plaid ranks single-handed 
for forty and sixty yards 'after a kick- 
off certainly must bo given duo men- 
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
Many Positions Open 
in Engineering Field
Opportunities Available at 
Employment Office
Tho younger graduatos, especially 
those from '.lie civil, mechanical and 
electrical onglnoerlng courses, wish­
ing to make a change should get In 
touch at once with the placement, 
bureau. Many Jobs have boon coming 
to our* attention In the last few weeks. 
All require prompt action. Co-opera­
tion may result In a bettor position 
for you. Act now!
1. Mechanical Engineer. Man 
well grounded In Physics and Ther­
modynamics for liquidation and gen­
eral gas work.
Mechanical Engineers. Recent 
graduates. Several openings.
3. Structural, Electrical and Me­
chanical Engineers for power plant 
design. One to five years oxpdrlonco.
<1. Electrical drafting. Maps, polo 
lines, sub-stations. Neat draftsman.
•Electrical construction foreman. Sev­
eral years’ experience.
Operating man for extended service 
estimates, etc. Practically 110 experi-
banquet on Registration night, 
every Plebe is urged to come over 
to the cafeteria on Thursday evening 
and get better acquainted.
Director Morris and “Bill” Pfouts, 
of the College of Industries, will talk, 
I-I. K. Kirkpatrick being toastmaster. 
It is certain that every Plebe and 
Senior will enjoy these talks, there 
is no reason why everyone should 
not be there. All Senior Counsellors 
who will be unable to attend should 
turn their names into Secretary 
Davis before Thursday morning. The 
price of this supper will be forty 
cents, which is within the reach of 
everyone.
or commercial
graduate. Half drafting, half produc­
tion. Three years' experience’.
(>. Several mechanical engineers.
7. Architectural engineer to sur­
vey district for erection of new high 
school. Age: 23 to 30. Salary, $2,500.
8. Several industrial engineers.
9. Mechanical engineer with one 
year’s experience for general plant 
work.
10. Industrial engineer for person­
nel work, labor turnover, etc.
11. ' Sales work, electrical refrig­
erator. Salary and commission. Sales 
work, safe filing cabinet. Straight 
commission.
(Continued on Paire Three.')
Sheepskin Chasers Appropriate
Red Flannels as Distinctive Attire
By T. S. Reppller 
(Special Foroign Correspondent) 
The Senior Class at the Can]egle 
Institute of Technology has for the 
past three months, beon Indeed in a 
quandary. It was felt that their ex­
perience and status about tho campus 
entitled them to some differentiation 
from the common herd, so that the 
passing of a Senior might be marked 
by many salaams and prostrations. 
How to accomplish this was indeed a 
problem. In personal appoarance tho 
Seniors are even as Common Men, 
and It was felt that some ornamen­
tation must be resorted to in order 
that all might know and walioo when 
such a dignitary passed by.
Knickers and Knockers.
Many and various were the schemes 
proposed for the clothing of the ^Sheep­
skin chasers. At first it was thought
advisable for tho enLItre claijs to como 
to college clothed In pink vests with 
purple spots, so that there might be 
no possible doubt as to their presence. 
But tho objection of tills plan was 
that many members of tho class had 
to pass dally by tho Oakland police 
station, and It was felt that the at 
tendance at classes would as a result 
be very poor. Another onsomblo 
which onjoyed tho popular favor for a 
time was a motif of black and blue, 
hut was1 rejected as being too sign III 
cant. A. committee was appoint’d 
from tho three men’s schools to pon­
der over the matter, and after weeks 
of serious deliberation, gave out the 
results of their investigations. As a 
consequence, all Seniors will come to 
college during the weeks that follow 
arrayed chiefly in Red Flannels, as a 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1922
R CwtiBgiH tartan
Published even' week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
COMMENTS
FOR THOSE WHO DOUBT
ROAMIN’S
VICTOR H. STROMQTJIST ............................................................. Editor-in-chief
Telephone—Hiland S5S.
H. D. SONNEMANN.................................................................... Business Manager
Telephone—Schenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone—Schenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD ...........................................................
H. F. SIMPSON.....................................................................
Telephone—Schenley 9143
HORTENSE PURDY......................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone—Schenley 9079
H. F. DIETER ....................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone—Hazel 9398
E. J. MAUST ........................................................................................ News Editor
Telephone—Hazel 9422
H. H. WILSON.......................................................................................Athletic Editor
Telephone—Hazel 935GR. p. HAY ............................................................................................. Photographer
R. B. KELLER ...............................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR............................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER.............................................................................. Special Writer
J. K. MATTER.................................................................................... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER 
J. C. MAJOR ..
Telephone—Schenley 8211 
Telephone—Schenley 9211
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, Y. L. Spencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schucker, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Laudig, D. Moskovitz, J. W. Metro P. W. Reilly, R. R. Young and H. 
Gibson.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
postoffice before 4:30 Friday.____________________________________________________
Tartan Office—Room 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
CONFIDENCE
New students, have you been pes­
tering yourselves with the old question, 
“Is College worth vniile?” have you 
already felt doubts as to the benefit 
to be derived from four years Of study 
Associate Editor and school work which seems to have 
Associate Editor1, no definite connection with the busi­
ness of living? If you have, the fol­
lowing bit of information which we 
clipped from a daily newspaper may 
help to solve your perplexities, and 
strengthen your determination to 
make your college days amount to 
something.
Statistics show that less than one 
per cent of American men are college 
graduates. These figures point out, 
however, that this one per cent has 
furnished:
Fifty-five per cent of our Presidents. 
Thirty-six per cent of our members 
to Congress.
Forty-seven per cent of the speak­
ers of the House.
Fifty-four per cent of the Vice Pres­
idents.
Sixty-two per cent of the Secreta­
ries of State.
Fifty per cent of the Secretaries of 
Treasury.
Sixty-seven per cent of the Attor­
neys General.
Sixty-nine per cent of the Justices 
of the Supreme Court.
Fifty per cent of the men compris­
ing the Constitutional Convention.
A college education does not al­
ways carry with it the key to leader­
ship. A diploma does not guarantee 
success, but surely the attainments in 
the past of college men justify us in 
believing that conscientious -work in 
college does reflect itself in after 
years and that these four years at 
Carnegie Tech are indeed worthwhile,
Advertising Manager 
.. Circulation Manager
Office hours—Tuesday,
Editing a newspaper is a nice thing. 
If we publish jokes people say we aro 
rattle-brained. If we publish original 
matter they say we are too lazy to 
write. If we criticize we are quoting 
from an article. If we don’t go to 
church we are heathens. If we do we 
lire hypocrites. If we remain at the 
office, we ought to be out looking for 
news items. If we go out then we 
ought to be attending to business. If 
we wear old clothes, they laugh at us. 
If we dress well we have a pull. Now 
what are we going to do?
In the French Army they call it morale.
Confidence led to the discvery of this country, to the victory of 
United States in past wars! A feeling of hope and confidence in the 
heart of the football players brought many a victory to Carnegie 
Tech-
In this day and age too much of the success of individuals is 
charged to good luck and a great deal is accounted to the skill of the 
individual. When one gets down to the basic facts it is found that 
most victories are a direct result of one’s confidence.
More than anyone else—a student needs confidence to succeed. 
All the trials and tribulations that are encountered in the fight for 
a higher education can be made easier to bear if one has confidence 
in himself and his associates. Try to contract that feeling that you 
are able to do the task and stick to anything you undertake. Practice 
that feeling when-you are in school and later on when you are 
brought face to face with the world you will be able to accomplish 
great things not because you have a good education, but because you 
have acquired that asset—confidence in yourself and in your fellow- 
men.—Contributed.
CARNEGIE DAY
Carnegie Day will be held in celebration of Andrew Carnegie’s 
birthday; held in his honor for the founding of our school. Every 
student should be at the exercises held in the Carnegie Music Hall 
on November 24tli to pay tribute to this great man, who did so much 
for the world; especially for the students who have this wonderful 
opportunity to receive an education because of him. No greater 
work for humanity has any man done than he who strived to spread 
knowledge among the masses; not only in establishing a great educa­
tional institution, but by libraries, museums and various other means, 
did he place information at the disposal of thousands.
The program for the day is to be very interesting including one 
of the leading educators of the English speaking nations in the per­
son of Sir Robert Faulknor, head of Toronto University. We are 
very fortunate indeed to have such a distinguished man as our guest 
on this occasion. Every student should be there; because it is an 
occasion whereby the students can show their appreciation for what 
is being done for them at Carnegie.
STUDENT VIEWS
THE HELLO HABIT
The Hello Habit- is one which 
should be practiced and one which 
can only be started by co-operation. 
It is a pleasant custom and one which 
helps to make life enjoyable. Many 
of the Freshmen have not yet acquir 
ed the habit, it seems, and we feel 
that it is not amiss to call their at­
tention to it as early as possible. 
When you pass a fellow classmate or 
an upper classman on the carnpus, or 
down town, say “hello;” you will be 
surprised to find with what readiness 
most of them will respond. We are 
all good friends here, and there is no 
better way to show it than by a will­
ingness to recognize a fellow student, 
A friendly hello and a smile in pass­
ing never hurt anyone except possibly 
a victim of mumps or extreme tooth­
ache. Get into the habit of saying 
hello; it makes the difference be­
tween a happy life in communication 
with friends about you, and the sor­
did existence of the man without a 
friend. One of the greatest gifts 
which can be bestowed on a person 
is the ability to mix with his fellows. 
Say hello to your neighbor and you 
are helping to mould a likeable and 
easy-to-smile personality both in your­
self and in him. Get the hello habit! 
—The Brown and White.
LEADERSHIP A TEST 
OF STUDENT ABILITY
Dr. Yarbough Discusses This 
Subject at Last Psycholo­
gy Seminar
Professor Beckncll Talks 
at Physics Colloquium
Just as likely as not some one will 
say that we stole this from an ex­
change. So we did.
Back in the days when Bill Dosey 
wore a mustache and Bill Pfouts had 
his picture oh the front page of the 
Tartan, in 1906, I believe, they pulled 
this one. It would be a good stunt 
to hold on to your chairs -when Prof. 
Follows walks across the room, as 
they start to slide owing to the slight 
inclination of the floor.
Old but still good.
Speaking of ancient history makes 
us wonder what the football schedule 
looked like in those days. California 
Normal, Kiski and Shadyside Acad­
emy at home and games with Alle­
gheny, Grove City and W. & J. away.
Which surely indicates we have 
made some climb in the athletic 
world.
Slowly, very slowly, the sorrow 
from the W. & J. contest is wearing 
away. New York University students 
couldn’t have felt worse when the 
news that the referee had changed 
his decision in
A very interesting talk was given 
by Dr. Yarbough at tho last meeting 
of the Seminar of Applied Psychol­
ogy held Thursday, October 20. Dr. 
Yarbough spoke on the subject “Stu­
dent Estimates and Psychological 
Tests.” Dr. Yarbough has conducted 
some very interesting experiments as 
to the grading of studeut mentality 
and lie gave the results of these ex­
periments in his talk. One of tho 
poiuts brought out was that good 
looks are not a safe betting point on 
mentality and that the prevailing be­
lief among students is that school 
grades are the poorest criterion of 
student mentality.
The essential' clmractei'istics for 
measuring student intellect as brought 
out by Dr. Yarbough are as follows: 
Leadership among students; ability 
to reason beyond own selflsli needs; 
mental alertness; appearance and 
manner; school grades, and original­
ity in thinking)
Mining Dept. Adds Trips 
to Regular Curriculum
Scheduled on Alternate Fri­
day Afternoons
The curriculum of the Co-opera­
tive Mining Courses for the Senior 
favor of Columbia [ Mining Engineers and Second-Year
Coal Miners, include« inspection trips 
to mines in Western Pennsylvania on 
alternating Friday afternoons through­
out the year. Lectures by prominent 
mine operators and engineers are 
given on the intervening Fridays in 
Room G3, Science, relative to impor 
taut mining problems.
The first trip was made on October 
20, to tho now Coverdale mine of tho 
Pittsburgh Terminal Railroad and 
Coal Company. The chief engineer of 
He may have been up in the air, this company is J. M. Provost, a Car- 
but he is surely down on earth now , negie Tech graduato in tho class of
reached them than the Tartans did, 
who had to return to Pittsburgh with 
a tie three weeks ago.
About sixteen years ago Prof. H. S. 
Hower of the Physics Department 
made what was then called a remark­
able balloon ascension. The headline 
in the Tartan at that time read: “Mr. 
Hower up in the air—off the earth 
for three hours.
with the students. He was right on 
hand and made himself one of the stu­
dents at the W. & J. game in Little 
Washington. A real sport—a mem­
ber of the faculty with real Carnegie 
Tech spirit.
The Carnegie Tartan is operated for the good of the school and 
welcomes any constructive criticism. Student and alumni views on 
any subject relative to what is being done around school are wel­
come, and any article which is signed and delivered to the paper wall 
receive consideration for publication; for that purpose a column 
headed, “Bill Says,” has become a part of the makeup. It must be 
remembered that the expressions are usually one person’s views and 
should not be misconstrued to be the opinion of the student body.
KILTS FOR THE BAND
It looks as though our band will soon wear kilts, because the 
committee has begun work in the right direction. They expect to 
raise money among the alumni and ‘students without going outside 
for financial assistance. If each individual contributes a small 
amount as their bit, the proposition can easily be put across. Every­
one ¦vv’ants -the band in kilts, so therefore when asked to help do not 
ignore the request.____________________________________________
ARTS THEATER
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TO
PRESENT NEW PLAY
We anticipate the "Watching Our 
Opponents” column will take an an­
other aspect when the Bloody Torna­
do of Carnegie Tech administers a 
few defeats in the coming encounters.
We outplayed Yale—they beat us. 
Wo outplayed Wash-Jeff—they tied 
us. Draw your own conclusions In re­
gard to Penn State.
According to the theory of progres­
sions we should trim them,
An ancient scribe once said: 
"Things worth while are hard to get.” 
Then the song book ought to bo a 
knockout and the Senior Fence ought 
to be classed with the Seven Wonders 
of the ages.
Student Calendar
¦WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
NOVEMBER 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11
Drama—“The Good Hope”................................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2
Band Practice......................................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
Senior Counselors-Plebe Supper......................6 -.00, Langley Laboratory
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3
Dance^—Graphica Dance.............................................8:30, Carnegie Union
“The Good Hope”—2nd and 3rd Acts......................4:00, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4
Cross-Country Meet—Syracuse Invitation ........................................ There
Football—Allegheny versus Carnegie............................................2:30, Here
Dance—Football Dance ...................-...........................8:30, Carnegie Union
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8
General Student Assemblv............ ..................................11:30, Music Hall
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10
Tea Dance—Ind. Junior...................................................4:30, Carnegie Union
Dance—D. A. W. V.........................................................:-8:30, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11
Cross Country—Penn State versus Carnegie........................................There
Football—Penn State versus Carnegie.....................................................There
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18 
Cross Country—A. A. U. Allegheny Mountain Association
Championship ...................................................................-...................... Here
Football—St. Bonaventure versus Carnegie...............................2:30, Here
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25
Football—Notre Dame versus Carnegie.....................2:30, Forbes Field
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27 
Cross Country—National Intercollegiate Meet._____________________________
GRAPHICA CLUB TO HOLD
FRIDAY EVENING DANCE
"Graphica Dance! You know what 
that means,” say the signs on the cam­
pus this week. Many surprises are 
promised for this dance next Friday 
night in the Union.
Graphica dances of former years 
have always attracted large crowds, 
and are popular on account of their 
novelty. As usual the price will be
one dollar, if a ticket is procured be­
fore the dance. Tickets will sell for 
$1.25 at the dance. The Printing De­
partment is always open and some 
member of the Graphica Club will be 
there to accommodate anyone wish­
ing a ticket.
The Tartan Seven will furnish mu­
sic for the occasion. This orchestra, 
under S. L. Wessel, has reorganized 
this year with several new players. 
Refreshments will.be served.
On Wednesday. November 1, Mr. 
Wallace of the Drama Department 
will present “The Good Hope,” a trag­
edy of Dutch fisher folk, by Herman 
Heijermans. The play will be given 
on Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
nights, November 7, 8 and 9. The 
performance of November 7 is for the 
benefit of the Alumni. On Friday, 
November 3, at 4:00, a special per­
formance of the second and third acts 
will be given in honor of the Liliom 
Company which is playing at the Al­
vin. The public is invited; no tickets 
will be required.
Characters.
Keneirtje, an old woman. .Ellen Lowe
Geert, her son...............Bernard Szold
Barend her son-----Charles McCarthy
Jo. her niece.................Bess Johnson
Clemens Bos, a ship owner------------
...........................Philip Rhodes Thorn
Mathilde, his wife, Elizabeth Sonersby 
Clementine, his daughter, Zabel Davis 
Simon, a shipwright. .Joseph Lazarus
Marietje, his daughter ......................
............................... Margaret Ripley
Truus ........................ Dorthy Pershing
Saart .......... .......... Margaret Harmon
Cobus ................................... Rose Hertz
Daantje ...........................O. B. Newman
Mees ................................... John Burns
Kaps ................................ Rawley Law
Jelle ........................ Edmund Lucehert
First Harboni Policeman ................
.......................................Harry Mervis
Second Harboni Policeman ..............
................................. Austin Conghlin
The translation used is the English 
version in which Miss Ellen Terry 
starred a few years ago.
Miss Lynn Montaine and company 
who were at the Nixon last week, 
visited the department Friday after­
noon and a special rehearsal of “The 
Good Hope” w'as given in their honor.
At any rate there are a few stu­
dents about the dorms arid In tho fra­
ternity houses who think they can 
sing without a song book and as for 
the Seniors—they seem to find a placo 
to park.
ROAMER,
Bharat Society Invites
Friends to Attend Party
P.Q.’S BEING COUNTED FOR 
SCHOLARSHIP CUP AWARD
The registrar’s office Is now comput­
ing the points for quality for all fra­
ternity men for the last semester to 
determine the winner of the cup which 
is given semi-annuaTly to the frater­
nity whose men have the greatest 
total number or points of quality. The 
cup will be awarded at a General As­
sembly. The Beta Tlieta Pi frater­
nity has held the cup for the last two 
years, having taken it from the Sigma 
Alpha Epsilons who held it the two 
previous years. Nineteen fraternities 
are competing.
Dum: "I just saw. Marge get into
her Chalmers."
Dummer: “By the way, w’hat are
Chalmers?"
The Bharat Association will hold a 
social gathering at the Bureau of 
Mines Building cn Friday, the third 
of November, at 8 p. m.
The program includes short speech­
es, motion pictures, music and stunts 
and light refreshments.
You and your friends are most glad­
ly invited to attend it.
The Bharat Association is an or­
ganization of the Hindu boys in 
Pittsburgh and the American friends 
helping up to get the .best out of this 
country during out stay here. It is 
exclusively an educational and social 
institution, holding regular meetings 
once eve BA month in a room in the 
school. The aim and object of the 
association is to foster friendly rela­
tions and better understanding be»- 
tween the two great countries of the 
East and the West; to help the 
Hindu student get the best American 
ideas and spirits along with their 
regular school education; and to give 
to the Americans a better and more 
thorough idea of our country—through 
mutual acquaintance, conversation, 
talks, discussions, speeches, instruc­
tive slideshows, motion pictures, so-
1908, the first class graduated In this 
school.
On Octobor 27 Mr. W. A. Luce, 
member of tho Advisory Board and a 
prominent mlno operator, gave a talk 
which was very interesting and com 
prehensive on “Organizing and Fi­
nancing a Coal Company.” Mr. Luco’s 
talk embraced the character and per 
sonnol necessary, In a coal company; 
tho acquiring of coal land, royalties, 
financing tho enterprise, interest 
turns on Investments on a tonnage 
basis, tho overhead costs, and tho 
profits necessary in accordance with, 
the nmount of production.
W. W. Hendrix Speaks
at A. S. C. E. Meeting
Another very good meeting of tho 
Physics Colloquium was held on Fri­
day, October 27. Prof. G. G. Boclc- 
nell of the Physics Depurtmeut of 
the University of Pittsburgh, showed 
about fifty slides which were copies 
of diffraction photographs made by 
himself and Professor Counson.
The source of light was an arc 
light. The diffraction took placo past 
the edges of circles, ellipses, etc., 
made of sheet metal. A camera, 
many yards long, was made of or­
dinary stove pipe. In tho central 
part of a circular shadow the Avago 
»bright spot was obtained. In tho 
case of elliptical shadows, however, 
bright curves were obtained occupy­
ing the position of the evolute of the 
ellipse. Bright normals were also ob­
tained running from the edge of the 
shadow to tho bright evolutes. One 
of the most striking photographs was 
obtained by the use of an obstacle in 
the shape of a cardioid. This gave 
a bright circle within the shadow of 
the cardioid.
Long exposures were required to 
bring out certain parts of the diffrac­
tion patterns. The slides shown 
were fiue examples of tho photo­
graphic art. Professor Becknoll be­
lieves that .most of the results ob­
tained are new. 1-Ie used the ex­
pressive term “diffraction caustics” to 
designate the patterns obtained with­
in the shadows of the various ob­
stacles used.
On Friday, November 3, Prof. I-I. 
S. Hower will report on the meeting 
of the Optical Society at Washington, 
which occurred during the past week. 
Tho program and the exhibition of 
optical apparatus at this meeting 
were exceptionally good. All inter­
ested are invited to attend the meet­
ings.
Night School Need 
Filled By “Skibo”
Contains Many Articles by 
Administration Men
The first number of our new con­
temporary, “The Skibo,” was issued 
last week, and, as an infant publica­
tion, shows promise of a brilliant fu­
ture.
It is issued bi-monthly in the inter­
est. of the night school students, and" 
serves as the intermediate between 
the administration and tho students, 
conveying information and announce­
ments which aro ordinarily difficult to 
make.
Being the first issue of the year, it 
is written largely by tho members of 
tho staff, but it is hoped that tho night 
students will also contribute articles 
of interest.
A letter by Dr. Baker clearly ex­
plains the purpose of tho publication, 
and calls upon tho night students for 
their co-operation. There is also an- 
article well worth reading, by Doan- 
Tarbell, lamenting upon the lack 
among students of the quality of the- 
postage stamp—tho ability to stick to 
a thing to the journey’s end.
Anyone who has an opportunity to' 
read “The Skibo” might put in a few 
minutes of his spare time looking it 
over, and he will not find his time- 
wasted.
INDUSTRIES SOPH MEETING
DIRECTOR MOTT GOES TO
HIGHWAY CONFERENCE
W. W. Hendrix, vIco president of 
the Plttsburgh-Des Molnos Stool Com­
pany, addrosHod tho Studont Chaptor 
of tho American Society of Civil En­
gineers Thursday at noon at Carnoglo 
Institute of Technology. Mr, Hen­
drix’» subject was “Towors and 
Tanks for Municipal Water 'Supply 
Systems.” .
Mr. Hendrix, who Is In charge of 
the sales of the tower and tank de­
partment of his company, traced the 
dovolopinent of tanks from tho old 
timber structure to tho present, mod­
ern steel structures with homlsphorl- 
cal bottoms and standard column ar­
rangement. Ills lecture was Illustrat­
ed with slides.
William E. Mott, director of the 
College of Engineering at Carnegie 
Tech, left Thursday to attond tho 
Second National Conference on edu­
cation for Highway Engineering and 
Highway Transport held by tho High­
way Educational Board in Washing­
ton, October 2G, 27, 28.
The Board Is composed of Dr. John 
T. Tigert, U. S. Commissioner of Edu­
cation, chairman; Thomas H. Mac­
Donald, Chief of tho Bureau or Public 
Roads, U. S. Department of Agricul­
ture; Roy D. Chapin, vice prosidont of 
tho National Automobilo Chamber of 
Commerce; Harvey S. Flrostono, rep­
resenting the Rubber Association of 
America; Colonol F. C. Boggs, Corps 
of Englnoors, U. 'S. Army, War Dopar,t- 
ment; F. L. Bishop (Doan of tho 
School of Englnoorlng, University of 
Pittsburgh), secretary of tho Society 
for tho Promotion of Engineering Edu­
cation; I-I, W. Aldon, Yoprosontlng tho 
Society of Automotive Englnoors.
NEW SHEET METAL 
BOOK BY MR.DAUGHERTY
The Industries 'Sophomores hold a- 
short meeting Thursday, October 26, 
in Room 125. Reports from the- 
Smolcor, Tea Dance and Blanket Com­
mittees were given. The class 
adopted a motion to pay for the ex­
penses of the smoker given to the- 
Plobes out of the class treasury. The- 
toa-dance committee announced that. 
the socond dance was to bo given Fri­
day, October 27. The committee in­
vestigating tho matter of buying a- 
class blanket to be used at all class 
affairs was authorized to buy a suit­
able blanket with funds to bo taken 
from tho regular class dues. Tho class 
also voted to placo two additional' 
mon on tho Plebe Regulations corii- 
mitteo to bring tho membership or 
this committee up to five.
Grace Reformed Church
Sunday School...........9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship......11 o'clock
Social Hour for Students and 
our Young Peoplo at G: 15 P. M. 
Luncheon, 15c.
Christian Endeavor, 7 P. M. 
Evening Services, Quostlon 
Box and Sermon at 7:45.
All'students heartily Invited. 
Sontn Free.
PROF. DONNELLS TALKS 
AT THETA TAU SMOKER
A very enjoyable smoker was held 
at the United States Bureau of Mines 
on last Thursday evening by the 
Tlieta Tau fraternity. After a get- 
together session among the members 
and friends, a movie“ “The Romance 
of Water," was shown. It portrayed 
the use of water through many cen­
turies and its use to humanity 
through the manufacturing of elec­
tricity. Professor Donnell of the 
Electrical Engineering Department, 
gave a very interesting talk on some 
of his experiences in the tropical 
countries of the East. Later luncheon 
was served in the bureau’s cafeteria 
and all present repaired to their 
homos agreeing that a pleasant time 
was enjoyed.
'DON'T GET HURT WEEK”
ART'S ASSEMBLY PROGRAM
Last Wednesday the College of Fine 
Arts held an assembly in the Littleclals, dinners, picnics an! entertain, j Theater. Mr. CarWi chlef Mfety dl,
! rector of the Carnegie Stee! Company, We need the help and co-operation g(lve a Yf,,.y interesting talk on "Don’t 
ot Americans—ladies and gentlemen, Get Hurt." He explained the reason 
fellows and girls. We extend our cor- for ¿j,e present campaign in this coun­
dial welcome to everybody and in- ty. He pointed out our carelessness
vite you to join us in support of this 
association in its v/ork.
Any further information about the 
association may be obtained from 
S. K. Boss, either directly or by mall. 
Leave letters at the post office.
ALPHA KAPPA PSI GIVES
REWARD TO ARCHITECTS
The architectural department of the 
College of Fine Arts has acknowl­
edged the receipt of a scholarship 
given by the Alpha Kappa Psi So­
rority. A benefit dance and a candy 
sale were held last year by the soror­
ity for the purpose of raising money 
for this scholarship.
Plebe: “Say, where’s the college
aquarium?”
Senior: “Er—I don’t know where
it is myself. Why do you ask?”
Plebe: “I wanted to take a look
at the college seal.” 1
and gave statistics of the fatalities of 
1921 which proved that the big flam­
ing steel mills are safer by far than 
our highways, streets and homes.
Mr. English of the Bell Telephone 
Company, explained how to give first 
aid to the Injured. Mr. Wade and 
three other men gave a demonstra­
tion on the care , and handling of a 
person who had supposedly fallen and 
broken several bones.
The business meeting which fol­
lowed proved to be very interesting.
Jack Franklin spolco of the “Y” 
drive and urged every Carnegie man 
to help beat Pitt on the gridiron. Frit:: 
Bowers announced that no dance 
would be given this Wednesday, but 
that permission had been -given to 
hold two dances just before the Arts 
ball.
Girls may smoke, but- the correct 
way to light a match still remains a 
man's privilege.
A now text and roforonco book doal- 
Ing with problems In layout find work­
ing of shoot metal has recently boon 
published through tho Manual Arts 
Pross by Mr. James S. Daughorty, 
hoad of tho shoot motal shop In tho 
Collogo of Tndustrlos, Croat care has 
boon used to havo all explanations 
full and clour, and a foaturo of tho 
book Is In Its fino Illustrations, both 
photographic and drawn. By moans 
of those two methods of Illustration a 
studont or apprentice soos both tho 
shape of shoot motal to bo cut, and 
the finished appearance of tlio artlclo, 
providing a comparison that helps to 
develop ability to visual I/, o.
Mr. Daughorty Is widely known In 
tho shoot motal trado and among mon 
teaching this work, and ho lias ob­
tained widespread Interest and pub­
licity for his department in the Col­
lege of Industries through trado jour­
nals and through the National Associa­
tion of Sheet Metal Contractors, of 
which he is an honorary member. Ills 
efforts have brought mon from the In­
dustry here to both night and day 
courses and caused many employers 
to engage the men so trained.
MANY PART TIME CLASSES
TO BE CONTINUED
Announcement has just been made 
'by the faculty of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, that the following 
part-time classes will be definitely 
continued dtn*ing the first semester of 
the current year. The announcement 
comes as a result of the plan origi­
nated several weeks ago, when it 
was decided that the part-time classes ; 
to be continued, would depend. upon 
the enrollment in these classes.
The part-time course has been espe­
cially attractive to teachers as they 
aré given considerable rein 1n arrang­
ing their periods, thus fitting their 
hours in with their own working time, 
giving them an opportunity for study 
they would not otherwise have had.
Tn Normal Art: Freehand Drawing, 
Sketching, Elementary Design, ITome 
Decoration, Jewelry, Normal Art 
Methods, Industrial Arts for the 
Grades—Sec, A.
In Music: Elementary Harmony,
Practical Harmony, Advanced Har­
mony, History of Music, Voice (Class 
Lessons), Elementary Counterpoint, 
Dalcroze Eurythmlcs Sec, 1. and 2, 
Methods A and B, Technique of Orch­
estral Instruments.
Home. Economics: Special Mothods 
In Vocational Home Economics, Sew­
ing, Trade Dressmaking,
Physical Education and Hygiene: 
Health Education and School Hyglone, 
Elementary Esthetic Dancing, Ad­
vanced Esthetic Dancing.
PSYCHOLOGY TEST
The Psychology Department is now 
preparing a test which will bo given 
to the Freshmen of the Science' and 
Margaret Morrison schools within the 
near future. The test this year will 
not be the same as that given to the 
Freshmen last year, but will be sim­
ilar in many respects.
START THE WEEK RIGHT
Church on Sunday puts now 
pop Into Monday, Tuosday Wod- 
nosday — till Sunday comes 
again. Try It iuul. LFFS
Oakland Methodist 
Church
Forbon and Boquet.
“Fifty stops from tho campus."
1:) , l-i 
AltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllW
TRAVELERS’ CHECKS 
No matter where you fjo, 
oast, went, north, south, 
we can provide you with 
travelers' chocks which 
will assure the safety of 
your funds. They are ex­
changeable anywhere 
without further trouble or 
expense. Call, or write 
our Steamship Agency 
which Is a part of our or­
ganization.
Mellon National BankOliver Jlue.& Smvthfield
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital - ¦*....................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits.......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
B
uy 
$5.00
Coroni» on our 
month plnn. 
Phone uij NOW lot u ireo 
dumonntrution.
8tandard Typewriter Co. 
129 Bth Avc. Court 343.
a month
UFRFDY
The Personal Wñi'mé Machine ¦

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Allegheny Next on 
Tartan Schedule
Methodists and Skibos Once 
Fierce Rivals
Allegheny College will be the next 
opponent for the Tartan football team, 
and is coming to Pittsburgh next Sat­
urday determined to give the Plaid 
squad the fight of its life.
Last Saturday, Allegheny defeated 
Waynesburg by the score of 33-7. and 
previous to this they were defeated by 
Grove City by one touchdown. During 
the present season, most of Alle­
gheny’s scoring has been due to their 
ability to complete their forward 
passes, and Coach Steffen has been de­
veloping a defense for this style o| 
play.
Several years ago when Carnegie 
Tech and Allegheny met on the foot­
ball field, the result was always in 
doubt until the game was over, but 
during the last few years the Plaid 
team has usually won. This has made 
the Allegheny team determined to win 
back their lost laurels and, regardless 
of their previous record during the 
present season, they are sure to put 
up the best brand of football that they 
can. From the Carnegie Tech point 
, of view, this game looks like an in­
teresting contest.
CARNEGIE PLEBES PLAY 
TIE GAME AT GROVE CITY
The Tartan Plebes played a G-G 
deadlock game with the Grove City 
College Reserves on Friday afternoon 
at Grove City. Both teams scored 
their touchdowns by the aerial route 
but neither one was able to boot the 
necessary point.
In the first half both teams showed 
a lack of drive and an equal posses­
sion of the ball may be credited. In 
the second half the Plebes came back 
strong and took the ball into the 
Crimson territory by a series of well 
directed line plays where Mohrman 
carried it across for a touchdown. The 
made a long pass to McCarty, who 
Plebes then held the Crimson to a 
6-0 score until the last few minutes of 
the game when Evans made a forward 
pass to McCormick, on the 5-yard line, 
who sccored the touchdown which
RADIO
Bradleystats ..........................$1.85
Radio Storage Batteries
(Guaranteed).......$12 and $14
ACORN STORAGE 
BATTERIES COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Phone Schenley 4545.
, Electrical Auto
Supplies Accessories |
'[SMSJSISi&SlSMSMSJSMSMSMSMSMSMSMJ
ST. ANDREW’S EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Center and Morewood Avenues.
Henry P. Eckhardt, Pastor.
Services: 10:45 A. M. and 7:45 
P. M. All seats free. On and 
after October 29, there will be a 
4:30 Vesper Service instead of 
at 7:45 P. M. Sunday School 
and Bible Classes for adults and 
young people, 9:30 A. M. The 
Church extends a cordial wel­
come to all students , of Tech.
tied the score. The lineup:
Plebes Grove City Res.
Kramer............ L. E.............McCormick
Cass...................L. T..................., Bryant
Schell............... L. G........................Lehn
Campbell.............. C...............Cummings
Predmore... R. G...................Weaver
Beede............... R. T.....................Hazen
Morgan.............. R. E.................Staubler
Bloom................ Q. B.....................Martin
Cook.................L. H.....................Guthrie
Mohrman.......... R-H...............Mansfield
Van Atta.......... F. B.....................Evans
•Substitutions: Oskin for Martin, Mc­
Carty for Van Atta, Van Atta for 
Cook, Reed for Schell. Touchdowns: 
McCarty, Evans. Referees: WliitG
and Hamilton; Young, Grove City: 
Head Linesman: Porter, Grove City.
Time of quarters: 13 minutes.
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
MILESTONES
Such was our decisive victory over the Crimson boys of Grove City— 
just another milestone in the march to a successful season for Wally Steffen 
and his red machine. Grove City had been pointing for this game all sea­
son and came down with the intention of giving the Tartans a tough battle. 
II was a little more difficult than some other games and once or twice the 
Plaid rooters were given a scare by a certain Crimson haflback who showed 
exceptional ability at running back ltickoffs. Of course part of the credit 
must go to Grove City’s interference but this man, Bryan, sure has the ear­
marks of a real open field runner.
Jimmie Robertson again gave the crowd its share of thrills by his bril­
liant running, incidentally making three of the four touchdowns. This makes 
him the high point scorer in the country adding further honors to his sen­
sational career on the gridiron. And did you ever stop to think that Jimmie 
helps add those extra points by placement goals when he holds the ball for 
Cy’s educated toe? Then we might mention that he is somewhat of a drop 
kicker. Indeed, our diminutive quarterback is a very versatile athlete for he 
holds forth in basket ball, track and baseball as wTell as football. He is al­
ready a three-letter man and bids fair to become one of the few Plaid four- 
letter men.
Notre Dame Noted as 
Crack Team of West
HARRIERS READY FOR 
SYRACUSE SATURDAY
Rockne is Considered a Fa­
mous Coach
THE PLEBES
Weren't quite so successful up at Grove City on Friday, but nevertheless 
they came through without having a defeat chalked up against them. Their 
star field general, Joe Christoff, wras out of the game with an injured shoulder 
from the battle with Bellefonte Academy, or the story might have been 
somewhat different. Coach Beeler has a hard task to develop any kind of 
team due to the fact that he loses much of the good first-year material to 
the varsity. However, this will be changed next fall when the Freshman 
rule goes into effect and we can look for better Plebe teams in the future.
Non-Degree Association 
Nominates New President
We know that one 
satisfied customer 
brings another
THE HOOT-MDN
CAMPUS ¡LUNCH |
The short course Men’s Association, 
formerly the Non-Degree Association, 
met for the first time last Monday 
afternoon in room 104. Mr. Strizzi, 
last year's president, opened the meet­
ing by giving - a short talk to the 
new men. The meeting was then 
turned over to Mr. Ward, vice presi­
dent for 1922-23. Mr. Hobein did not 
return to school so the president’s 
ohair was declared vacant,
Nominations have been open for the 
week and elections will be held next 
Monday evening. The’following men 
were nominated for president: Strizzi, 
building construction: Schafer, auto; 
Regester, Machine Prod.
The Short Course Men’s Associa­
tion, according to Mr. Strizzi, intends
TO THE CHEERLEADERS
We read that letter in-the Comments column hist w'eek aud wondered if 
the cheerleaders would read it and take a little of the advice. Obviously they 
did for we noticed that their spirit was a little better and their attempts 
proved a little more successful on Saturday. However, there is still room for 
improvement and it’s got to come.
COMMENTS
Penn State 0—Syracuse 0, Hmm! It doesn’t look so bad for the Tartan 
invaders but still old Hugo Bezdeck has that faculty of developing a star 
when he needs one. He still has Harry Wilson and then there is Mike Palm, 
who is doing some good work at the quarterback position. However, skirts 
often lead astray and therefore the Nittany Lion might take heed of the 
Scottish Kilts.
The Tartans are going to get a taste of football as it is played in the 
Middle West when they tackle Notre Dame. Nebraska invaded Pittsburgh 
last fall and—well, you know the result. We’re going to try and uphold the 
honor of the Smoky City this year and are hoping t]iat it will be more than 
just a “try."
We had a letter the other day from a Notre Dame boy and he says they’re 
coming down on a special train to back up their teamr-in more ways than 
one. They’re worrying about where to spend the night. Watch for these 
Notre Dame men and help them out.
Watching Our Opponents
There will be two more games to 
be played at the Carnegie Bowl this 
year. Allegheny College tackles the 
Skibo ilnd has hopes of scoring. The 
two big games, one at Penn State, the 
other at Forbes Field, will prove to 
be the real battles. St. Bonaventure 
has a date on the schedule, Novem­
ber 18.
Allegheny . . 
to be a great help to the school and Allegheny 
will co-operate heartily with any sug- Allegheny ., 
gestions made by the degree students. , Allegheny .,
' Penn State ,
ßP 1 TARTANS ANNEX 28-0
VICTORY OVER CRIMSON
Are You Short | 
of Money?
Read what Guy Harris says about I 
making money sellinE Simpson Tailor | 
made clothes.
"I worked my way through school 
selling Simpson suits and overcoats.
“Last spring I found myself in a 
position of being compelled to earn 
extra money to pay my expenses or j 
leave school. Through the employ- | 
ment manager at school I learned of j 
Simpson, Inc., and succeeded in 
making a connection with them. 1 
Although I had never in my life be- j 
fore sold a suit or overcoat, I have ' 
earned an average of $37.00 per week \ 
by using my Bpare time to take orders j 
for Simpson suits and overcoats. I
"I did not depend only on the col­
lege students, but each afternoon I | 
went out and called on from ten to , 
thirty men. As Simpson values are ! 
exceptionally good and I could save j 
the men from S10.00 tp $20100 on every 
suit or overcoat I nearly always sue- j 
ceeded in getting from one to five or- I 
ders a day. The opportunity to do 
this work was a God-send to me and I \ 
can think of no better way to meet | 
expenses than by getting the agency | 
for Simpson clothes. The firm is 100 | 
per cent on the level—a big, reliable, i 
honest institution and I cannot speak , 
too highly of them. This season I will I 
do even better as I have several hun­
dred satisfied customers whom I can 
resell.
"GUY C. HARRIS.”
If you are looking for a means of | 
making money you can find no better | 
or more profitable* way than by making | 
application for tho Simpson agency at | 
your college. All our suits and over­
coats aro made from virgin wool fab­
rics, tailored to order and sold for the 
flat price of $29.50. In fit, stylo and I 
quality, they are equal or superior to I 
the average garments retailed at I 
$50.00. Wc aro one of the largest I 
tailoring organizations in the United [ 
States and stand back of every gar- 1 
ment with an honest guarantee of j 
absolute satisfaction. If you ‘
working your way through school , 
write us.
Please address your letter Attention i 
of Salesmanager.
J. B. SIMPSON, Inc.,
Dept. 324 831-843 W. Adams St. 
Chicago.
(Continued From Page One.) 
tion. As a whole the Grove City in­
vaders put up a stubborn defensive 
and displayed results of excellent 
coaching.
For the Carnegie- team, “Jimmie” 
Robertson did o31 »hat was oxpectel 
of him. Early in tho game the Grovo 
city tacklers fairly pounced on poor 
“Jimmy” but not once did they lay 
him out in scrimmage. “•Jimmie’' 
has placed himself in the> favor of the 
admirers of the sport and it is hoped 
that he may be placed on record 
among the leading stars of 1922 foot­
ball.
Captain Anderson always p'lays a 
smashing game and the same may be 
emphasized for this fray. It is very 
apparent that the Carnegie Tech 
team is generalled in a most com­
mendable manner—every player well 
acquainted with his position and 
working well with his team mates.
A pair of ends that any college in 
the country would be proud to claim 
may be found, in Godden and Potter. 
The crowds rise to their feet every 
time they see the cross-buck forma­
tion and it is pretty to see the re­
sults accomplished by these two lads
Brumbaugh hits them hard and the 
Grove City line had to give way on 
practically every line buck when the 
“Old War Horse ‘Brummie’ ” was 
loose and determined to head for the 
goal '^osts.
Penalties of the game were weil 
distributed between the two teams 
and neither team got any decided 
•breaks. Fumbles were quite frequent 
with the Tartan backfield, while their 
two attempted forward passes were 
both knocked down.
'Coach Williamson’s boys had evi­
dently been well instructed as to 
Coach Steffen’s methods of offensive, 
since many plays were broken up be­
fore they had time to be completed. 
They .relied mostly upon open forma­
tions and forward passes to gain 
ground. Four out of ten were com-j 
pie ted, and gained a total of ninety | 
yards for the visitors.
Tech-Grove City lineup:
Tech^—28. Grove City—0.
Potter ...............L. E.................... Hill
Zelt.....................L. T..................Jones
Comfort ...........L. G.................. Putts
Irwin .......................C................... Smith
Rosenblc-om ....II. G.........Bohlender
Sprinkle ............R. T....
Godden ..............R. E------
Robertson ......... .Q..........
Newman .............L. H....
Anderson (c.) . .R. H.....,
Brumbaugh ...........F----
Score by quarters—
Tech ...............................7
Grove City ...................0
Penn State . 
Penn State . 
Penn State . 
Penn State . 
Penn State . 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame
.. 0 
. .39 
. .12 
. .23 
. .54 
. .28 
. .20 
. .32 
. .33 
. . 0 
. .46 
. .26 
. .20 
. .34 
. .13
..19 
.. 0 
. .21 
.. 7
Colgate .... 
Niagara ....
Grove City 
Waynesburg 
St. Bonaventure 0 
William & Mary 7 
Gettysburg .... 0 
Lebanon Valley 6 
Middlebury . . . . 0
Syracuse ......... 0
Kalamazoo .... 0
St. Louis ........ 0
Perdue ............. 0
DePauw........... 7
Georgia Tech... 3
TICKETS OUT FOR
PENN STATE TRIP
Possibly This Explains Why 
Registrar Must be Bright
The following was received by tho 
Registrar recently:
“Dear Sir’s 
WILLyou ploao.e send meyotir par- 
ticolars and the curroct price for the 
AUTOMOBILE MANTAINENCE
COURSE. ANDhow to pay it. I havo 
3 hours of spare time between 11.00 
A. M. to 2 p. m. at the prosent time, 
my trado Is MOTORMAN; of which 
I am working with the pg.R. CO. at 
HERRON HULL CAR BARN, hope to 
hear from you with good aadisfactlon. 
i remain your hopefully student.”
CARNEGIE BAND
TO HAVE KILTS
BY FINAL GAME) firmly believes that Notr 
______L.
(Continued From Page One.) 
train will arrive back here at 12 
o’clock. Let’s lift the roof off the old 
burg. Get your preliminary ticket this 
week for $1.00 and next woelc your 
railroad ticket in the Athletic Man­
ager’s office for $5.20.
And Fellows, there’s one other thing 
to remember. Many of you are going 
on the Special—some are planning 
auto trips, and still others will as­
sume the role of “bummers.” Be that 
as it may in your own particular place, 
but, please give the Special a squaro 
deal, because by so doing you are also 
treating the Athletic Association the 
same way. Let us delve into finances? 
THE SPECIAL WILL BE THERE! 
But in order to get it, Frank Haaren 
has to guarantee the railroad com­
pany 500 fares at $G.20 each. In other 
words, $3,000 and over must go to the 
railroad. If there are only 250 men 
on the special, the Athletic Associa­
tion must “dig-in” and pa}' the bal­
ance, or, the price of 250 fares.
So, fellows, get behind the special, 
and save the Athletic Association 
money. FIVE HUNDRED MEN MUST 
BE ON TPIIS SPECIAL! That’s all 
there is to it—there “ain’t” no more!
(Continued From Pairo Ono.) 
enthusiasm and talk in the world will 
avail nothing unless backed by cash. 
It is felt that every registered student 
at Carnegie Tech should be willing j 
to subscribe a dollar toward that [ 
fund, and it Is upon that assumption 
that the order has been sent in.
It is up to tho student body to 
see that C. I. T. has a fitting costume 
for the best band that ever honked 
and thumped with a real old Carne­
gie spirit. With “KILTS FOR 
NOTRE DAME” as our slogan, lot’«1 
start the works moving at once with | 
a real donation!
He: “You are the breath of my
life.”
She: "Then why don’t you hold
your breath awhile?”
MONEY NEEDED FOR
BAND INSTRUMENTS
(Continued From Paue One.) 
good of the school. Each man sac­
rifices quite a bit of time in the 
band work and when they appear be­
fore the public it is not for their 
own personal gain but rather as aid 
toward putting the school before the 
puiblic in the right way. Is it un­
reasonable then for the band to ask 
something of the school? The band 
feels that the student body is behind 
them on account of the good work 
they have done in furnishing them 
with kilties.
Tech Students and Alumni are In­
vited to call at the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop to see their large display of 
Fountain Pens: Swan, Parker, Conk­
lin, Waterman, Sheaffer, etc.
OVERCOATS
TAILORED TO YOUR MEASURE
individuality 
Durabilty 
Perfect Fit
7 7 7-r-28 
0 0 0—0 
Substitutions—Grove City—Fay for 
Jones; Lloyd for Smith; Sakemiller 
for Hartman; Douds for Lopoman; 
Jones for Fay; Fay for Bohlender. 
Tech—Lamb for Newman; Gilbert for 
Rosenbloom; Wierman for Robert­
son; Donohue for Brumbaugh. Touch­
downs — Robertson 3, Brumbaugh. 
Goals from touchdowns—Comfort 4, 
(placement). Time of quarters—15 
minutes. Referee—Blum, Iron City. 
Umpire—McFarland, W and J. Field 
Judge—Dex Very, Penn State.
Two years ago the Army football 
team was rated as tho best in the 
East. Then, one bright Saturday 
they played the team representing 
Notre Dame University. The soldiers 
play with all their customary aggres­
siveness and speed, but they wore 
outclassed. The Irish, as Notre Dame 
was known, displayed a tricky shift, 
a strong line and wonderful backs. 
Forward passes in profusion smash 
ing line bucks; coupled with smart 
endi runs proved too much for the 
soldiers, and. they were defeated 27 
to 17.
The Eastern critics looked at each 
other in amazement. “Who are these 
boys?” they asked each other. Inves­
tigation disclosed many things.
Notre Dame is a university located 
in South Bend, Ind. It is a Catholic 
institution and until last year had 
preparatory course in conjunction 
with the Uuiversity proper.
The coach is named Rockne, a grad­
uate of the school and one of tho 
best lialfs ever produced in the West. 
Nothing remarkable so far. But 
listen.
Out there, every man is expected 
to come out for the team in his 
first year, when he receives prelim­
inary training. From October to 
Thanksgiving they talk nothing, 
think nothing, and do nothing but 
football. The whole school gives 
all its spare time to developing a 
team, and everyone helps.
Everyone who has any football abil­
ity at all is given a chance. No bet 
Is overlooked, and as a result, if 
there are any football men in the 
school they are soon found out. So 
much tor the material.
The coaching is tho second big 
thing. Ivnuto Rockne is the greatest 
exponent of the passing game in the 
West.. He had his teams practicing 
passing ever bofore the forward pass 
was mado legal. Consequently ho 
has the passing game down to a fine 
point. Tho Not.ro Dame teams are 
famous all through tho Wost for 
their fine p'asslng game.
Besides the passing, Rockne spec­
ializes in shifts. Every year new 
ntlos are made prohibiting shifts and 
ovory year Rockne comes out with a 
now shift that Is entirely legal, but 
Still gives' his backs momonLum be­
fore they start. Naturally they go 
hard. The Irish aro noted for their 
hard lino play and smashing tactics. 
And tho team Is well nigh perfect In 
'both these department's as far as a 
team can bo mechanically perfect.
The third factor in tho dovolop- 
ment of the team Is tho altlludo of 
the> school. Evory man In tho school 
Damo has 
tlio best, .football team in the world, 
and it Is impossible to boat It. They 
simply can’t, imagine losing a game.
As a result of this system, they 
play a game, unlike that ol’ any othor 
college In tho country. They havo a 
flashy stylo, with many freak forma­
tions from which they can run any 
sort of play. Their plays aro decep­
tive to a high degree, and any team 
that is not alert Is outclassed fvrthi 
tho start. Their forward panning 
game is the most highly dovolopod 
of any in tho country, and their end 
runs hnve the same swooping effec­
tiveness as our own. In line plung­
ing, from any formation, their shift 
gives their backs additional momen­
tum and makes them about as easy 
to &top as an express train, while 
they always have a good puntor and 
drop kicker.
In addition to those, Rockno has a 
habit of developing at least one man 
during the year who is about tho last 
word in a football way. The names 
of Mohardt, Gipp and Desch are fa-,
miliar to us, and this year there is
sure to be ono man who will be men­
tioned when tho All-American is 
chosen.
A glance at their record for the 
last three years will give some idea' 
of the caliber of the teams which 
they put out.
1921
Notre Dame..56 Kalamazoo ..... 0
DePauw .............. 0
Iowa..............•____10
Purdue ................ 0
Nebraska ............. 0
Indiana ................ 7
Army.................... 0
Rutgers .............. 0
Haskell Indians. 7
Marquette ..... 7
Michigan ............ 0
1920
Kalamazoo Col... 0 j
Kalamazoo Nor., i1.
Nebraska ............ 71
Valparaiso ..... 31
Army ...........171
Peuduo ............... 01
Indiana ..................10
The Tartan hill and dale men are 
priming this week for the big Syra­
cuse Invitation Meet at Syracuse on 
Saturday. This is one of tho big 
meets of the season, and if tho Plaid 
makes a good showing it will mean 
added laurels to Carnegie Tech’s rep­
utation in cross'country. The Skibos 
will have to run against such teams 
as Cornell. Yale, Harvard, Pennsylva­
nia, Syracuse and Colgate. The fol­
lowing men will probably make tho 
trip as a result of the trials on Satur­
day: Dykemau, Greenlaw, Menden­
hall, Gare, Tubbs, Sampson and Mc.- 
Velvie.
The squad was scheduled to run 
against Allegheny and Bethany in a 
triangular meet last Wednesday, but 
due to a mix-up in dates by Allegheny 
the affair had to be called off. As a 
result, the only home meet left is the 
A.. M. A. championships which will 
be run over the home course on No­
vember IS. The other two remaining 
meets are with Penn State on the day 
of the Penn State game, and the lu- 
tercollegiates at New York on No­
vember 27. These two are going to 
present some real opposition for the 
Plaid harriers.
“Wally” Steffen Signs 
New Contract as Mentor
Chicago Judge to be Here 
Three Years Says Rumor
of Carnegie Tech on 
was placed in safo
MANY POSITIONS OPEN
IN ENGINEERING FIELD
WE ARE 
Exclusive Oakland Dealers
FOR
(Continued From Page One.)
12. Mechanical engineer for Mas­
ter Mechanic’s office. Mechanical en­
gineer, drawing, clerical and follow- 
up of repair and operation of steel 
mill machinery.
13. Mining in Cuba, experience in 
copper. $150 a month and expenses 
to property.
14. Civils for inside and outsido 
railroad work.
15. Mechanicals for design and de­
velopment of now machinery. Mon 
with one to ten years’ experience.
16. Machinory construction or me­
chanicals, stool mill finishing depart­
ment foreman.
17. Sales manager for bond deport­
ment. Experience in selling securi­
ties.
18. Electrical and electrical con­
struction mon .for switch-board devel­
opment work. No oxperionco.
ID. Assistant engineer, dairy con­
struction, nialntonanco, installation of 
machinery. Two to three years’ gon 
oral mechanical oxperionco.
20. Mechanical designers for In­
ternal combustion and comproHsuro, 
Experience,
21. Electricals or mechanicals, 
operation of oloctrloal machinery of 
mill of 2000 KW, ijtoam turbine, malft 
tonanco of generators, and some 60 
motors. $150 a month and oxponnoa 
to plant. Cuba.
22. Experienced rollng mill drafts­
man.
23. Electrical or mechanical, cat­
alogue work on oloctiical machinery. 
Inclination for writing. Exporlonco 
or with Inclination for such work.
2-1. Malo stonogrnphor. Export- 
enood. $125 a month.
25. Production manager of Elec­
trical Manufacturing Company. Flvo 
years’ exporlonco.
20. Snlosmon, mechanical or com 
morclal. Recent graduates.
27. Recent graduates for sales of 
refractories, sower pipe and other 
clay products.
28. Civlls on railroad work. Re­
cent graduate».
20. Construction draftsmim. EX' 
porloncod.
30. Com morclal artist. Clonoral 
poster experience.
31. Sketch artist for photographic 
retouching,
31. Electrical for design work.
Electrical for switchboard construc­
tion.
32. Electricals and mechanicals, re­
cent graduates for service on equip­
ment engineering work. Western 
Electrical Company of Chicago.
33. Mechanical steel crane de­
signer.
There are many other mechanical 
and electrical openings with special­
ized experience or experience from 
one to five years. Write or call the 
Alumni Student Placement Bureau at 
once, if interested in any of the jobs 
listed. The abov*- list typifies the 
kind of jobs which have come to our 
attention daily.
The future 
the gridiron 
hands the other day when the Chi­
cago judge, affectionately known as 
"Wally” Steffen, agreed to preside 
over the destinies of tho Plaid foot­
ball team for tho next few years. 
Just when this new contract expires 
is a matter of speculation among the 
common run of people and students; 
the Pittsburgh papers say Wally will 
be with us three years longer. While 
we don’t hesitate exactly, and hesitate 
to run counter to tho aforementioned 
purveyors of wisdom which are 
noted for the accuracy of their 
weather and stock reports, we should 
like to hazard a guess that tho 
Judge will be with us longer than 
three years.
Those most intimately concerned 
soem to bo averse, to telling just 
what the period specified in tho con­
tract is, but that is a mere detail; 
the important thing is that Wally 
has managed to arrange his profes­
sional duties so that he can lock up 
his court and journey East every yoar 
to turn out a team.
There is no use going into Stoffon’s
WALLY STEFFEN
life history; ovory follower ol’ tho 
Skibo knows that ho is a graduate of 
Unlvorslty of Chicago whbro ho 
played on 'the. name toam with Coach 
Stagg, who Is now coaching the toam 
of his Alma Mater. And thoao who 
hoard Stoffen’« speech of acceptance 
of the little token of tho esteem hi 
which all Carnegie mon and women 
hold him, last yoar, will never for­
got that, honest trembling ol’ tlio 
coach's voice as lie declared that ho 
loved Carnoglo Tech socond only to 
Ills own Alma Mater. And they will 
remember, also how he proved liifii 
devotion to Ihe. IMnld by fuming 
down a much larger salary than ho 
receives hero, to coach tho team of 
a. rival Institution.
By. these and other things Wally 
Stoffon has ondeftrod himself to all 
Clansmen, and If Is fholr sincere 
hope'that all his coaching shall ho 
done a1.. 'Carnegie, Bonie ol' us aro 
just optimistic enough to bellevo 
that before this man's coaching days 
are ovor tho Plaid is going to clash 
with tho mighty mon from Chicago, 
and boat them. It would be a groat 
day for the Tartan and a fitting cli­
max to tho caroor of a groat coach, 
Judge Walter SlolTon.
Notre Dame..57 
Notre Dame.. 7 
Notre Dame..33 
Notre Dame.. 7 
Notre Dame. .28 
Notre Dame..28 
Notre Dame.. 48 
Notre Dame..42 
Notre Dame..21 
Notre Dame..48
ciato constructivo 
will malto for ¡i 
successful Prom.
suggostlons which 
hotter and moro
A girl’s willingness to flirt 
Varies directly* as tho length of 
her skirt inversely.
*iStyles change so rapidly you’lF 
have to choose your own adverb.-— 
Rensselaer Polytechnic.
JUNIOR PROM. AT
SCHENLEY HOTEL FEB. 2
(Continued from Page One)
The Junior Prom, is the big social 
function of the Junior Classes of all 
the Colleges and the Juniors them­
selves are those who will be primar­
ily responsible for its success. All 
of the committees will greatly appre-
Notre Dame..39 
Notre Dame. ,42 
Notre Dame. .16 
Notre Dame..28 
Notre Dame. .27 
Notre Dame. .28 
Notre Dame.. 13 
Notre Dame..33 
Notre Dame..25
Notre Dame..14 
Notre Da me.. 60
BULETI BRionriHiiERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shopnear -iftth Street, Hew York 
Style shoes of quality.
[¿11 Notre Damo. ,U 
&]*
ijj Notre Damo.. 16
Si! Notre Damo, .53
0 19!2 
EJ. V. 1’ri$35 to $50
DAVIES & HUGHES
[|] j Notre Dame. ,12 
t-jj Notre Dame. .13 
p]| Notro Damo. .33 
Û Notro Da me.. 14
OAKLAND’S MEN’S STORE 
3615 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
Northwestern ..,
Mich. Aggies___
1919
Kalamazoo Col..
Mt. Union............
Nobraslca ............
Kalamazoo Nor..
Indiana ................
Army ..................
Mlcli. Agglos___
Purdue ................
Mornlngsldo ....
rawr*
Exhibit Shop Pittsburah: 
JENKINS ARCADE
FALL UNDERWEAR 
We Have Your Style and Size.
C. A. Heimert
3014 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Y. M. C. A. DRIVE FOR
MEMBERS FALLS SHORT
Continued From Pago'One) 
cause the "Y” is of benefit to every 
student and we could not do without 
such an organization. Tomorrow night 
the “Y” is arranging its second ban­
quet for the Plebes and their Senior 
counsellors, and every Plebe is urged 
to be present.
Auf hammer & Evans ^
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1922
CLAN NEWS
NEW YORK CLAN
ENJOYS SECOND DINNER-
DANCE OF SEASON
On Tuesday evening, October 24, 
the Carnegie Clan of New York City 
held its second dinner-dance of the 
season at the Trianon, 2824 Broadway. 
Although the attendance was not as 
large as it should have been, the party 
was a success and everyone had a 
very enjoyable evening. Dinner was 
served at seven o’clock and the re­
mainder of the evening was spent 
dancing.
The following people were present: 
President and Mrs. G. L. Burgess, 
Mr. and Mrs. M. L. Patterson, Mr. 
and Mrs. J. A. Cameron, Mr. and Mrs. 
G. C. Bauer, Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Guter, 
the Misses Pranks, Sumpter, Crank- 
sliaw and Tillotson, and Messrs. 
Smith, Whitehead, Curtis, Gretzler, A. 
D. Bauer, P. L. Knowles, A. J. Kerin 
and-M. A. Marcus.
A. D. Bauer and F. L. Knowles are 
members of the Pittsburgh Clan. Mr. 
Knowles was editor of the Tartan and 
also manager of the band last year. 
The New York Clan is always pleased 
to see members of other Clans and ex­
tends an invitation to them to attend 
its meetings whenever possible.
To you members of the New York 
Clan who were conspicuous by your 
absence, we want to state that you 
missed one of the most enjoyable oc­
casions the Clan has had, and we 
again urge you to awaken a little_of 
the old Tech spirit and prove to the 
Clan that you are still alive. Let’s 
have one hundred per cent attendance 
for the remainder of the season. The 
committees in charge are working 
hard to increase the attendance at 
these dinners and it is quite discour­
aging at times when there are only 
about twenty-live present out of a 
possible total of one hundred and 
fifty. You are not displaying the old 
Tech “pep.” Why is it? Is it the old 
excuse that you forgot or have you 
lost the printed schedule of meetings 
which was mailed to you earlier in 
the.season? Neither of these excuses
is acceptable. Let’s have a little 
more co-operation in the future.
The next dinner and dance will be 
held on Monday evening, November 
20, at De Jiannes Restaurant, 17 Cen­
tral avenue, Newark, N. J.
The New Jersey brothers claim that 
this affair will surpass any of the do­
ings which have been held in the 
town across the river. It is even ru­
mored that they have arranged to 
have Governor Edwards present to 
deliver an address on Temperance. 
Let's go!
The New York Clan meetings for 
the rest of the year are as follows: 
November 20, De Janinnes Restaur­
ant, 17 Central avenue, Newark, N. 
J.; December 14, Cafe Boulevard, 
Broadway at Forty-first street, New 
York City; January 12, The White 
Rose, 981 Eighth avenue, at Columbus 
Circle, New York City; February 3. 
Annual Banquet and Dance, Colonial 
Room, Hotel McAlpin, Broadway at 
Thirty-fourth street, New York City.
CLEVELAND CLAN NEWS
On Saturday, October 21, the Cleve­
land Clan of Carnegie Tech women 
enjoyed a delightful luncheon at the 
home of Miss Dorothy Harlow on 
Radnor road. Those present were: 
Mrs. ' Mary Ridy Lees, Mrs. Maude 
Hainer Montgomery, Mrs. E. C. 
Speaker, secretary-treasurer, and the 
Misses Orrall Hepburn, Mildred Law­
rence, Dorothy Harlow, Helen Holl- 
man, Helen Hester and Mrs. Martha 
Potter Foster.
After the luncheon, a business meet­
ing was held at which plans were 
made to attend the dinner to be given 
by the Men’s Clan at the Hotel Win- 
ton, in the near future, and also to 
see the Playhouse Players a little 
later in the season, among whom are 
quite a number of Carnegie Tech 
graduates.
Meetings are held on the third 
Saturday of each month and all visi­
tors and new arrivals are urged to get 
in touch with the secretary, Mrs. E. 
C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock avenue, 
Cleveland, O.
Faculty Club Pians 
For a Lunch Room
Miss Beulah M. Smith to 
Take Charge
At a meeting of the new officers 
and of the House Committee, October j 
19, the question of serving lunch to j 
faculty members in the club room; 
was given serious consideration. It I 
was felt that the club could be more 
efficiently utilizod for the welfare of 
the faculty than it is at present, and| 
the lunch plan was brought forward 
as the 'best line of development.
Miss Beulah M. Smith who is so 
successfully, conducting the cafeteria 
in the Library and the- M. M. C. C. 
lunch room, is willing to undertake 
this new project and has worked out 
a tentative plan. This plan would 
provide for hot foods to be prepared 
in the Margaret Morrison lunch room, 
and conveyed in containers to the 
club room. One individual would be 
employed full-time, assisted by stu­
dent help from the M. M. C. C. Serv­
ice would be from 11:30 to 1:15, five 
days a week.
The corner of the room where 
the- card tables are now located 
would be screened off, jind an ad­
jacent room used for service. The 
card) tables would be relocated. It 
would be necessary for the club to
expend approximately $300 for crock­
ery, silverware, kitchen utensils, etc. 
This item can be financed without as­
sessing the club members.
The officers feel very strongly that 
lunch arrangement such as above 
would bring in Its trail many dis­
tinct advantages, such as providing 
opportunities for faculty friendships, 
an understanding of what is going on 
in the other fellow’s department, a 
better relaxation at tho noon hour, 
and a more agreeable faculty back­
ground on the .campus. The officers 
also feel that if this enterprise is 
properly carried out that a lunch in 
a centrally located and attractive 
place such as the present club room 
would be its. own best argument for 
success.
Before taking any further step 
however, those in charge of the club 
for the current year decided to cir­
cularize all the men of the teaching, 
administrative and office staffs by- 
means of this letter to find out just 
how many would be interested in the 
plan, and would pledge themselves 
for a trial period for at least four 
lunches a week at 40' cents a lunch. 
It has been carefully estimated that 
a minimum income of $16.00 per day 
would adequately take care of the 
project.
LOST
Small gold pin in the shape of a 
sphinx head. Initials G. B. Me. on 
the reverse side. If found kindly re- 
t’irn to the Dean’s office.
Remington.Portable
A revelation to every student who is 
tired of the pen. Will turn out your theses, 
themes and all your writing, neatly, legibly 
and quickly.
The most complete of all portable type­
writers— because it has the Standard Key­
board and many other “big ma­
chine” features. Yet it’s so small that 
it fits in a case only 4 inches high.
Price, complete with case, $60.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER 
COMPANY, INC.
102 SIXTH STREET 
Bessemer Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Paragon Ribbons far Ravinzton Portable Typewriters 
Soc each—Ss a dozen
Alumni Homecoming 
Set For November 25
Important to Buy Your 
Tickets Early
Alumni! Only 24 days ’til we play 
Notre Dame on Forbes Field. And 
it’s to be an alumni homecoming 
game! It is Carnegie Tech’s biggest 
home game of the season, and Notre 
Dame hasn’t played in Pittsburgh 
since Tiovembel- 2, 1912. Every foot­
ball fan within the radius of Pitts­
burgh’s smoke is talking about it.
It is too bad that everyone wants 
the same seats, but according to 
Frank Haaren, if all the applications 
which have been received so far for 
seats in Section 1, second tier, were 
placed end to end, they’d reach to the 
moon.
Tickets are going fast, order yours 
early.
We are planning to have a banquet 
after the game. Of this, more later. 
Reservations for tickets will be filed 
in the order received and will be so 
filled. Box seats, $2.50; reserved 
seats, $2.00; general admission, $1.50. 
Student and alumni book good for 
credit as noted on ticket for event No. 
7.
Reservations must be accompanied 
by check, express, or post office 
money order and should be for the 
exact amount to pay for the tickets 
ordered, minus credit due for coupons 
returned with order. Orders MUST 
be accompanied by a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope. Make all checks 
and money orders payable to Frank 
Ii. Haaren, treasurer. Tickets will 
be ready for distribution the latter 
part of the week. For further infor­
mation, write Frank H. Haaren.
Alumni, read this: First choice is
given to holders of 1922-23 athletic 
books, students, faculty and paid-up 
members of the Alumni Federation.
Plan to come.
ALUMNUS WRITES LETTER 
ON VALUE OF FEDERATION
Here’s what one Carnegie Tech 
Alumnus thinks of his obligation to 
his Alma Mater:
"*rt is Indeed a pleasure Cor me to 
tie up with you inasmuch as it is my 
belief that a ‘Tech’ man’s enthusiasm 
for the school never diminishes after 
leaving school and the Alumni Feder­
ation is certainly the medium for 
keeping this enthusiasm at a high 
pitch.”
Show us that you feel the same 
way. Join the Alumni Federation.
If you are delinquent, $4.00 will put 
you in good standing. If you are not 
delinquent, $2.00 will keep you in good 
standing and entitle you to the Tartan 
and C. I. T. Alumnus for the coming 
year. Make checks payable to G. L. 
Tilbrook, treasurer.
Faculty News and Notes
ARTICLES LOST AND FOUND
One new brown felt hat on first floor 
of Arts School, between 8:30 and 9:30 
on October 20. Initials B. D. K. on 
inside. Finder please return to Di­
rector’s Office.
Lady’s 'black Schaeffer fountain pen 
(14 k. gold point, ring in top for 
guard) either on campus or in Sclien- 
ley Park. Finder please return to 
office of Dean of Men and receive re­
ward.
One Kappa Sigma fraternity pin lost 
in front of gate No. 3. Finder please 
leave it at the Office of the Dean, or 
call Schenley 9401.
M. M. ALUMNAE TO SEE
PLAY IN LITTLE THEATER
Margaret Morrison Alumnae, are 
you remembering that on Tuesday 
evening, November 7, the Little Thea­
ter is being reserved for us? ‘‘Good 
Hope” is the name of the play, and 
from all reports it is a gbod one. All 
that’s needed to make the party a 
success is a good crowd, which will 
fill the theater. Make a special ef­
fort to be there.
BULLETIN BOARD
PLAN INSTITUTED
(Continued From Page One.)
The plan also requires that no one 
shall post student notices except the 
student in charge of the boards. He 
will call at Dean Tarbell’s office at 
12:30 daily for notices to be posted, 
and all organizations and students 
having notices to go up should, there­
fore, leave them at the office of the 
Dean of Men before 12:30. An excep­
tion to this rule is made where a no­
tice is to be set up that concerns the 
students of one college or department, 
only. These need not be delivered to 
the Dean’s office, but can be posted on 
the one board concerned by the or­
ganization interested, provided the 
notice Mjcets the requirements stated 
above.
This entire plan is being pet into 
effect, not only to improve the appear­
ance of the campus, but to put campus 
posting on a systematic basis, and to 
make it easier for everyone to iden­
tify the latest notices. Every mem­
ber of Carnegie Tech is urgently 
asked to co-operate to the end that 
this new arrangement, which the Stu­
dent Council and Board of Student Ac­
tivities are financing, will prove a 
success.
SHEEPSKIN CHASERS
APPROPRIATE RED FLANNELS
AS DISTINCTIVE ATTIRE
(Continued From Page One.) 
mark of distinction from the more 
lowly seekers of knowledge. The idea 
of knickerbockers was proposed-by an 
enterprising Soph Commercial, but the 
Senior class did not take kindly to 
the source.
How to Tell a Senior.
The idea as adopted will be thusly. 
When a underclassman sees one 
whom he suspects to be a Senior com­
ing towards, he will:
1. Lower himself to his hands and 
knees 3 times.
2. Approach the Senior with the ut­
most respect and caution.
3. Grasp the Senior by the right 
cuff and turn back his coat sleeve.
4. If the aforesaid suspect is seen 
to have the conventional red flannels 
on, he is then known to be a Senior, 
at which the underclassman is to:
a. Rise and salaam three times.
b. Murmur “Geckelmath” twice,
which being translated freely, 
means ‘howuellyudoit/
c. Rise and run rapidly', out of
harm’s way.
The Senior class expects everyone 
to live up to these regulations to the 
letter of the law. Additional touches 
of delicacy and finesse may be readily 
conceived of by the person of spirit 
and imagination.
Gymnasium Class.
Arrangements have been made for 
a gymnasium class for the faculty 
men. Mr. Moses will give instruction 
two afternoons a week, at 4:30, on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays. The class 
work will 'be followed by volley ball 
or other sport as may be preferred. 
No one is barred by youth, age, dig­
nity, or other conditions of servitude. 
Got key for locker from Mr. Jordan, 
Receiving office, basement of Central 
Building.
Mr. W. L. Remick, of the Mining 
Department, was present in a consult­
ing capacity during the past week at 
a series of experiments conducted at 
the local Bureau of Mines station by 
the Trent Corporation. These experi­
ments were conducted for the purpose 
or preparing exhibits to-be presented 
in the London courts, where tho Min­
erals Separation Company, Ltd., will 
contest the Trent Corporation patents. 
The Trent Patents cover a.method of 
amalgamating powdered coal and fuel 
oil in the preparation of a fuel involv­
ing the properties of both constit­
uents, by agitation in water suspen­
sion. The Minerals Separation pro­
cess involves a similar process used 
as a step in the manufacture of coal 
briquettes.
Mr. John L. Porter, chairman of the 
Committee of the Trustees on the In­
stitute of Technology, will make aii 
address on art at the November first 
meeting of the Women’s Club of 
Edgewood. Dr. Baker will speak be­
fore the club in March.
The faculty of the College of Engi­
neering hold a dinner last Saturday 
night in tho Margaret Morrison Car­
negie cafeteria for the purpose of re­
organizing. Addresses were made by 
Mr. John L. Porter and Director Mott. 
Professor Ilower is chairman and Mr. 
Prine secretary of tho organization. 
A committee of five was appointed to 
lay out a program for the year. Pro­
fessors Ely, Fettko and Porter wero 
the committee on entertainment.
Mrs. O’Brien, wife of J. Vick 
O’Brien, head of the School of Music, 
died on Saturday, October 21st,1 after 
a long Illness. Mrs. O’Btien was a 
well known singer and many of the 
faculty will remember the very at­
tractive concert given by Mr. and Mrs. 
O’Brien in Carnegio Music Hall in 
1912. Mr. O'Brien has the slncero 
sympathy of his colleagues.
Professor C. G. Dunnells, head of 
the Department of Building Construc­
tion, College of Industries, represent­
ed the Carnegio Institute of Technol­
ogy at the meeting of the Master Com­
mittee on the Proposed Building Code 
of Pennsylvania, October 17, at Har­
risburg. Professor Dunnels was made 
chairman of the sub-committee which 
will present the engineering portion 
of the code.
Professor J. T. Hoyle, head Depart­
ment of Printing and Publishing, Col­
lege of Industries, represented the De­
partment at the Annual Convention 
of the United Typothetae of America, 
October 18, at Cleveland. Professor 
Hoyle spoke before the Education 
Committee of the U. T. A. on “The 
Progress of the Department of Print­
ing and Publishing at Carnegie Tech.”
Col. Fairley made an address at the 
fall meeting of the American Society 
of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, 
Bureau of Mines, October 17th, on 
“Underground Construction for Heat 
Distribution Systems as Applied in 
Group Systems of Heating.”
Dr. Charters spent the week of Octo­
ber the 9th with the faculty of the 
Alabama Polytechnical Institute of 
Auburn, Alabama. In daily faculty 
conferences the questions of the cur­
riculum, methods of teaching, and the 
development of ideals were discussed. 
The Alabama Polytechnical Institute 
is the state institution in which are 
included the Schools of Engineering, 
Agriculture, Veterinary Science, and 
Pharmacy.
Mrs. C. B. Story will give a lecture 
on Interior decorating at the next 
meeting of the Women's Club of C. I. 
T., Wednesday afternoon, Novembor 
first. The attention of the wives of 
the new members of the faculty is 
called to the fact that they are mem­
bers of the club,, and are urged to at­
tend the meetings.
Alumni Will Go With 
Students to State
Section of Special to be Re­
served For Them
At the meeting of the committee of 
the trustees on the Institute of Tech­
nology on October 19th, Mr. Porter 
was re-elected chairman. Mr. Frew was 
elected secretary, in place of Mr. 
Scaife, who asked to be relieved from 
his post. Mr. Roy A. Hunt has beeu 
appointed a member of the committee 
in place of Mr. Franks.
You probably remember a few of 
the football games played while you 
were in college, and no doubt by this 
time have begun to exhaust your won- 
„dertul tales of how little Johnny 
Greaser ran one hundred and ten 
yards for a touchdown through the en­
tire opposing team; or how Bill Share-’ 
liand threw a forward pass to Sam 
Katcher who stood between the goal 
posts.
A lot of you saw us beat W. & J. a 
few weeks ago and it was a thrilling 
game—every Techite had a raw throat 
for days. But that’s the least of it. 
Everyone who saw that game can al­
ways relate with "a great feeling of 
pride and joy just how wo did it.
Grove City expected to defeat us. 
They’re still thinking—but something 
else.
Penn State is thinking that they’re 
a good team—they are—but Carnegie 
Tech has the best team she has ever 
had, and that’s as good as State’s best 
team. Our team is going up there to 
win and the game is going to be a 
thriller. “Wally” iS going to uncork 
some new plays. New York and Chi­
cago photographers and reporters will 
be on the grounds and it will be a fit­
ting way of celebrating Armistice day. 
Think of the trip up there. All kinds 
of attractions for an enjoyable morn­
ing. Then after the game, think of 
the hilarious time we’ll have celebrat­
ing. Imagine awakening the Pitts­
burghers when we get back to the old 
town with the Lion’s skin hanging, 
over our shoulders.
An entire section of tho Penn State 
Special is going to bo reserved for 
alumni. All that is necessary is that 
you notify tho Graduate • Manager’s 
office of the size of your party and 
whether Pullman reservations are re­
quired. Train leaves Pennsylvania 
station at 7:30 P. M. and at only $(5.20 
a round trip.
So let’s hear from you Alumni. 
We’re with you—we want you—be 
with us and let’s go together.
1923 Thistle to be Ace
Among YearBooks
DR,LANGMUIR SPEAKS AT
THE CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
Dr. Irving Langmuir, physical re­
search chemist of tho General Eloc- 
trie Company at its Schenectady labo­
ratory, and wldoly known as an oloc- 
trlcal authority, gave a' series of lee-
Remember when you wore in 
school and tho Cafeteria used to bo 
in the Central Building?—tho “cut” 
wasn’t; the “Hoot Man-’ wasn't, anil 
several other things what is—wasn't? 
Perhaps you kept a few clippings 
from the newspapers tolling of Car 
negio Tech’s rapid progress—or you 
kept a few choice issues of Puppet 
or you were so much interested, that 
every time you wore about to tell 
anybody about YOUR school—you 
brought out an old Thistle and point­
ed with fatherly pride to the club 
that you helped to organize or the one 
you used to beloug to and say—"Just 
beside that post you can find me if 
you look again," or you say “There’s 
Hap l-lower—boy when I’d see him 
I’d say “aint we got fun?" Yes 
brother, a Thistle is the real tie that 
binds.
Carnegie Tech is progressing every 
year—every day—every minute—
we’re doing things. You’re vitally in­
terested in your Alma Mater—and you 
want to keep' abreast of her progress, 
Even the year book itself has out­
grown its orginal self and the one 
which is to be put before the world 
this year will be a positive gem. In 
its makeup all of the results of the 
world’s latest progres will bo intro­
duced, even to the extent of introduc­
ing coior, The pictures alone will be 
a treat.
Each Clan would like to have one 
as part of their records—in fact they 
practically need it to function prop­
erly. Each aluminus wants one and 
will be happy in the possession of it
Just $4.50 for the book and add 25 
cents for postage if you live outside 
of Pittsburgh. Make all chocks paya­
ble to Vincent Roy, treasurer. Do 
it now—subscribe.
tures at the Carnegio Institute, Octo­
ber 27, 28 and 29. His subjects were 
“Electron Emission from Heated 
Metals," “Electron Emission from 
Thoriated Filaments,” and “Methods 
of Controlling Electron Currents in 
High Vacuum.”
Dr. Langmulr’s work In electricity 
in recent years has placed him 
amongst tho most eminent men of sci-r 
enco. Ho has received degrees from 
the Columbia School of Minos, tho 
University of Gottingen, Northwestern 
University, and the University of 
Edinburgh, and has been awarded nu­
merous medals for various rosoarchen.
FACULTY MEMBERS ASKED
TO AID IN BUNDLE WEEK
Tho Wodnosday Afternoon Club an-
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni Federation—President, S. G. Little, ’10; First Vico President, .1. F. 
Laboon, ’12; second Vico President, H. L. Heilman, ’17; Third Vico Pres­
ident, Genoviovo Cuslvwa, ’12; Fourth Vice Prosldont, S. M. Vlncont, ’08; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, ’09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, ’15.
Board of Governors—Collogo of Fine Arts—H. II. Hollmnn, ’17; M, M. 
Steen, ’08; Frank I-Iaaron, Associate.
College of Industries—S. G. Little, ’10; A. J. I-Iynd, ’22; W. II. 
Ritts, ’12.
Colloge of Engineering—J. F. Laboon, ’12; G. L. Tilbrook, ’15; M. R. 
Walton, ’09.
Margaret Morrison Carnogle Collogo—Floronco Bochtol, ’18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, '09; Edna C. Smith, ’09.
Representatives at Large—Gonovlove Gushwa, ’12; S. M. Vlncont, ’08. 
Officers of Alumni Associations—Colleqe of Fine Arts—President, H. L. Moll­
inoli. '17; Secretary, Frank H. Haaren; Associate Treasurer, Bertha 
Johnson, ’14.
Board of Govornors—C. O. lllogor, '13; Dorothoa Stolnmacher, *19; 
Frederic McConnoll, '17; Charlotte Smith, '18; Sarah Owen, 
Associate.
College of Industries—Prosldont, S. G. Little, ’10; Vico Prosldont, C. 
K. Koontz, '17; Socond Vico Prosldont, K. H. B. Julian, ’10; Soc- 
rotary-Troasurer, A J. I-Iynd, '22.
Board of Governors—L. T. Kelly, Associato L. II. Loo, '09; F. Miller, 
’09; J. M. Orr, '15; Q. T. Ileddaous, ’19; F. A. Crothors. '21. 
College of Engineering—Prosldont, J. F. Laboon, '12; Secretary- 
Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, ’15.
Board of Govornors—F. I. Gaston, '09; F. J. Nuttal, ’19; Edward F. 
I-Iirscli, '20; II. G. Nicliol, '21; H. S. Stockdalo, ’15; R. C. Cos­
grove, '18; E. E. DufT. Jr., '13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College—President, Florence I. Bochtol, 
’18; First Vice ©resident, Jane Linderman Cole. '11; Second Vico 
President, Sue Smith. '17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smith, 
'09.
Executive Committee—Florence I. Bechtel, '18; Jane Linderman 
Cole, '11; Sue F. Smith, ’17;..Edna C. Smith, '09; Elizabeth Shoots 
Gaston, '09; Gail Sellers Feltlce. '17; Bernice Kruger, ’19; Mary 
Cummings Keaney, '20; Margaret Griffin, "21; Josephine Whit­
ney, '22.
Never lot competition discourage 
you.
Do you think ten other athletes, 
toeing tho scratch, bother a lialf- 
miler? Not if he can run. They only 
make him run faster.
In picking your vocation, don't con­
sider the number in the race. Pick 
out the work that you enjoy—tho 
work that you can run in. Train well 
for tho race. Toe the scratch, and 
with the bang of the gun—step out! 
Stride along, confident, determined, 
strong, fast. Then remember—if you 
slacken your speed, you lose the race. 
You beat yourself. A competitor will 
never beat you. You never lose until 
you admit defeat.
“Considering myself as the instru­
ment of the Lord, without heeding tho 
views and the opinions of the day, I 
go my way.” That is what former 
Emperor William said in 1910. He 
found out quite soon that ho was 
wrong and in a very disastrous way.
There are several students who 
seem to practice a similar creed 
though In most cases not quite so se­
vere. There are a few who do not 
heed the views and opinions of the 
day. A great many go about with, 
little thought for the ideas of the 
other fellow.
iSOino time—if you are of that type 
—and feel In that mood just stop and 
think. Do a 1 title listening and per­
haps you will find that the other fel­
low has some good ideas. 1-Ie may 
save you many embarrassing moments 
and In the end you may come to tho 
conclusion that opinions and views of 
the day are of some value.
nounces November 6-11 as 'Bundle 
Week for the work of the Associated 
Charities of Pittsburgh. Members of 
the faculty are asked to aid by dona­
tions of old or worn clothing which 
will be repaired and disbursed by tho 
Associated Charities. All donations 
should bo loft In care of Mrs. Mlcho- 
nor, at 5100 Forbos street.
Belleficld Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bolloflold Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ........ 9:45 A,M.
Collogo Men’s Bible
Class ..........................10:00 A.M.
Preaching sorvlco ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Soclotlos ................... 7:00 P.M.
Pronchlng Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
¦t nmmmmmmmmmmnmmnmmit
DANCING
------AT------
The
Rittenhouse
EVERY SATURDAY—0 P. M. j 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Flvo Barbers at your sorvlco. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
f^fr^n^ff^fr^r^r^rTnfiìiffnfnirrnfpifinfpifpiftn/ìnfìn/ìvi^ngfiìi/QifQijpj
AKRON—Secretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTON—Secretary, J. F. Maxwell, P. O. Box 16, Wellesley Hills.
BUFFALO—Secretary, W. II. Rieger, Sizer Forge Company.
CHICAGO—Acting Secretary, Nelson P. Rice, 19 La Salle Street.
CINCINNATI—Secretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 Bast Ninth Street.
CLEVELAND—Secretary, M. G. Kingsley, 17817 Cannon Avenue; 
Women’s Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTON—Secretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROIT—Secretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co.
ERIE—Secretary, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street.
ELLWOOD CITY—Acting Secretary, George Dunseitli, Jr., East 
Cottage.
NEW CASTLE—Acting Secretary, P. W. Marcean, 202 Shenango St.
HARRISBURG—Secretary, Ritchie Lawrie, 206 Market Street.
HARTFORD—Acting Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon­
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTON—Secretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWN—Acting Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELES—Acting Secretary, Mrs. Inez Heacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEY—Secretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing­
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORK—Secretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West­
chester Park, Tuokahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLK—Secretary, W. H. Sands, Bank oi! Commcrco Building.
PHILADELPHIA.—Secretary, W. P. • Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA-—President, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company ol: Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH—Secretary, A. J. Ilynd, Carnegie Institute oi! Tech­
nology.
SHARON—Ac.ting Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOU IS—Acting Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON—Secretary, Herbert W. Haller, 110 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWN—Secretary, W. S.-Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
M. M. Clan Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
BARNHART’S RESTAURANT
Real Home Cooking 
116 OAKLAND AYE.
Compliments j¡¡ 
of
Skibo Inn I
TheFlavorLasts
