^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
High Hopes For Oakland Master PlanInternationally known violinist 
Sidney Harth and French pianist 
Christiane Verzieux will present 
a program of music for violin and 
piano on Tuesday, April 10, at 
8:30 p.m. in the Theater, of the 
College of Fine Arts at Carnegie 
^Tech.
™ The concert, sponsored by the 
College of Fine * Arts, is one of 
the four to be given by Mr. Harth. 
Other stops on the brief tour are 
Chicago, Cleveland, and New 
York. Mr. Harth is currently con- 
certmaster of the Chicago Sym- 
[continued on page 6]
ing for the campus. The station 
will return to the air immediately 
after Easter vacation.
The purpose of the two weeks 
work session is to give announcers 
and engineers further training, 
make technical improvements, and 
generally raise the quality of the 
station. Preparations for FM will 
also proceed at a stepped-up pace.
WRCT welcomes all who feel 
they can be of help to the station 
in any way, since good announcers, 
engineers, writers, and technicians 
are always in demand. Those who 
can’t participate actively can par­
ticipate passively by listening at 
900 kilocycles.
Carnegie Tech is one of the 
group of Oakland institutions 
which recently announced the for­
mation of a private development 
corporation which will seek city 
approval to carry out the Oakland 
Master Plan in wrhat will be the 
nation’s largest single effort to 
preserve and renew an urban edu­
cational-cultural center.
The institutions that have so 
far joined in the creation of Oak­
land Corpoartion, as the company 
will be known, are the University 
of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Institute
of Technolagy, Carnegie Institute, 
I the Catholic Institute of Pitts­
burgh, Mellon Institute, and 
Mount Mercy College.
Each will be represented on the 
corporation’s board of directors 
although their financial commit­
ments to the capitalization of the 
company will vary from nominal 
to substantial.
The projected redevelopment 
may require an expenditure of 
$250-million for land acquisition 
and construction. It will be fi­
nanced by the corporation with
the aid of some downtown educa­
tional and charitable foundations 
I and a coalition of corporate lend- 
' ers and investors.
Dr. Edward H. Litchfield, Chan­
cellor of the University of Pitts­
burgh, initiated the project and 
Pitt will be the company’s major 
I stockholder. “The Oakland Master 
Plan,” Dr. Litchfield said, “creat- 
i ed a challenging concept for a 
civic, academic, and cultural cen­
ter in the middle of America’s
Viv” Rehearses Dance and Music
Mathias, Stock 
Direct Rehearsals
Scotch ’n Soda’s “principals’ 
rehearsal last week.
Last week Scotch ‘n Soda start­
ed rehearsals for this year’s pro­
duction, “Viv.” Each night from 
7-11 p.m. members of the cast 
can be seen in the Skibo Ballroom 
rehearsing energetically under the 
direction of Choreographer Dinah 
Mathias and Music Director Dave 
Stock.
At present, Dinah Mathias, a 
junior in the Drama Department 
is choreographing “The Boy 
Friend” for Central Catholic High 
School. Last summer Dinah work­
ed for a summer stock company 
at Sommers Point, New Jersey as 
a resident choreographer. Her 
credits last year include S ’n S 
“Animation,” ana assistant to New 
York television choreographer 
Peter Hamilton for the Drama De­
partment’s production of “Any­
thing Goes.”
Dinah’s dancing experience in­
cludes work at the Valley Forge 
and Camden County Music Circus­
es and at the Northeastern Ballet 
discuss the show at the cast’s first Festival. She is a member of the
[continued on page 3]
Mandelbaum 
And Rnsker 
Debate UN
An informal debate on the 
United Nations will take place this 
evening between William Rushner, 
Publisher of the “National Re­
view,” and Mr. Seymour Mandel­
baum, of the Tech History De­
partment. Th? debate will take 
place in the Wherrett Room of 
Skibo at 8:30 p.m. Time for ques­
tions and discussion will be avail­
able after the debate.
The debate is being presented 
by the Society for Conservative 
Studies, a group newly organized 
on campus as a result of the com­
mon interest of ten students who 
want to learn more about conser­
vative thought. The Society has 
been formed as a study-discussion 
group to further the understand­
ing of the history and principles 
of contemporary conservative 
thought.
Mr. Mandelbaum, who has been 
at Tech since 1959, received his 
AB from Columbia, his MA from 
Princeton on New York City poli­
tics of the 1870’s.
i Renaissance City. It will be an 
! aesthetically beautiful area, with 
modern high-rise and garden- 
I type residences, commercial esta­
blishments fitted to the needs of 
' a unique community, and other 
! facilities supporting the various 
I institutions. There is no other 
I cultural complex like it in the 
; nation.”
Oakland Corporation, he em- 
; phasized, will ask the city’s Urban 
! Redevelopment Authority to 
choose it as the private developer 
to implement these recommenda­
tions, which were made public 
I last November by the Pittsburgh 
i Regional Planning Association 
I and which have been accepted by 
the Pittsburgh City Planning 
| Commission and the City Coun- 
! cil.
Oakland Corporation would ac- 
! quire land from both the Pitts-
¦ burgh Urban Redevelopment Au­
thority and from private sources, 
I w’ould construct improvements on 
j it, and then manage the property 
on a long-term basis. It would 
thus be able to control the qual­
ity of Oakland construction under 
conditions laid down by the city 
as well as under its own.
It is unusual among develop­
ment projects for the original de- 
1 [continued on page 101
Freshman Camp Elects | Oakland Urban Renewal
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Volume 54 — Number 22 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 1962
JStaff and Counselors
A sure sign of spring on the Tech campus is the organ­
ization of next September’s Freshman Camp. For the past 
several weeks, the executive staff of camp has been busily 
preparing for this year’s excursion. Following the appoint­
ment of the Camp counselors this past week, the staff is now
embarking upon its training
JHarth-Violin 
V erzieux-Pian o 
Present Music
program. Tomorrow, April 5, 
?a dinner meeting will be held in 
the Staff cafeteria in Skibo in or­
der to acquaint the counselors 
with the aims and functions of 
Camp and to plan the program 
for this year.
Freshman Camp is a voluntary, 
joint effort on the part of stu­
dents, faculty and administration 
dedicated to the goal of stimulat­
ing college-level though by the 
incoming freshmen. Camp, which 
is held each year at Camp Luth- 
erlyn near Zelienople, has proven 
to be an excellent setting, not 
only for realizing the above pur­
pose, but also for providing an 
opportunity for frosh to meet fac- 
alty and upper-elasmen in the 
icontinued on page 91
WRCT Vacations; 
Policy Statement
WRCT will be leaving the air 
today for two weeks of hard Work, 
aimed at providing better listen-
Corporation Seeks Approval
Dr. Edward H. Litchfield, Chancellor of Pitt looks at would be seen from Tech.
a model of the proposed redeveloped Oakland, as it

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 -- THE CARNEGIE TARTAN -- Wednesday, April 4, 10621
Teohites Study 
Social Issues
A weekend spent in a work- 
camp in Pittsburgh, experiencing 
Jiving amidst social problems and 
doing something constructive about 
them is possible for Tech students 
through a project sponsored by the 
American Friends Service Com­
mittee.
A number of Tech students have 
been participating this semester 
and others interested may call at 
the YMCA and YWCA office. Room 
57 Skibo, for dates available. The 
cost from Friday dinner through 
Sunday noon dinner is $4.00.
The group works in an area of 
need on Saturday, and after an 
evening of discussion about the 
day’s experiences, on Sunday 
morning visits Penn Avenue Mor­
als Court, attends church in the 
area where the work project has 
been, and evaluates the entire ex­
perience before adjourning aftr 
noon dinaer.
Seeger Sings 
In Pgli. Concert
It’s been a long time since Pete 
Seeger sang here in Pittsburgh. 
Last time, he performed with 
Sonny Terry, the great harmonica 
player and singer. Pete Seeger will 
be back again on Monday, April 
16, at the YM-WHA in Oakland at 
8:30 p.m. This concert will be a 
solo performance.
Today, folk music is very popu­
lar. it wasn’t always so. For many 
years, the finest musicians in this 
field, such as Woody Guthrie, 
Huddie Ledbetter (Leadbelly), Big 
Bill Broonzy, and Pete Seeger 
sang only to small audiences. 
Leadbelly, Big Bill, and Woody 
aren't singing anymore - but Seeg­
er remains as one of the pioneers 
of folk music still singing today.
Since the early days when he 
started with Allan Lomax in the 
Library of Congress, he has been 
devoted to the collection of folk 
¿ongs. He has, perhaps, recorded 
more than any other folk artist. 
Some people remember him as a 
member of the Almanac Singers, 
but more know him as the organ­
izer of the Weavers, a quartet in­
cluding himself, Lee Hays, Ronnie 
Gilbert, and Fred Hellerman, The 
Weavers really brought folk 
music to the attention of large 
audiences. They remain one of the 
major influences in this field to­
day.
Several years ago, Pete Seeger 
left the Weavers to go out on his 
own as a soloist - a lone voice 
singing out the music of people in 
America and other lands, accom­
panied by banjo, guitar, recorder, 
etc.
Eve Class Banquet 
Tickets Available
Tickets for the Evening School 
Banquet are now being sold in Mr. 
McKelway’s office and by the stu­
dent council members. The affair 
this year will be held on Saturday 
night, May 5, at the Adams House. 
The program consists of dinner, 
speaker, floor show, dancing, and 
door prizes. Mr. McKelway will 
be toastmaster and Mrs. Ruth 
Ramsaj’, dramatic artist, the guest 
speaker. The Homestead District 
Works Male Chorus, well known 
singing group in this area, will 
provide an enjoyable half hour of 
entertainment. Then for the re­
mainder of the evening, dancing 
music will be provided for you 
by the “Sweet Notes.” Everyone is 
urged to come out, join the fun, 
and bring your friends.
Forum Presents 
Fine Music
“The Music of Irving Fine” will 
be the subject of the fourth and 
last of this year’s series of Com­
posers Forums, Saturday, April 7, 
at 3:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall.
The Forums are sponsored by 
the department of music through 
combined grants from the Howard 
Heinz Endowment, the A. W. Mel­
lon Educational and Charitable 
Trust, and from a trust fund of the 
Recording Industries obtained 
through the cooperation of Local 
60, American Federation of Musi­
cians.
Mr. Fine will open the program 
with introductory remarks. These 
will be followed by selections of 
his chamber music performed by 
members of the Phillips Quartet, 
and by Helene Shifrin Reps, con­
tralto, and Ralph Zitterbart, piano. 
The Phillips Quartet is composed 
of Eugene Phillips, violin, Charles 
Hardwick, violin, Godfrey Layef- 
sky, viola, and Eugene Eicher, 
’cello. Mr. Eicher is a faculty 
member in the music department, 
and Mr. Zitterbart is a 1961 grad­
uate of Tech.
Following the program, there 
will be a question and answer pe­
riod. Admission to the Forum is 
free and no tickets are required.
BULLETIN M BOARD
Hash and Rehash
“Hash and Rehash,” a noonday 
conversation in Skibo 105 will 
have as guest Mr. James Hough- 
teling on Tuesday, April 10. He 
will lead off the conversation with 
some thoughts on problems of ra­
cial integration. Anyone interested 
is invited to bring tray or sack 
lunch from 12:20 to 1:20.
A Phi O Pledges
Alpha Phi Omega’s Spring Rush 
ended recently with the acceptance 
of bids by 4 freshmen and 4 
sophomore men. Those pledging 
are: Freshmen: Kenneth Begalke, 
Robert English, Richard Grove, 
and Andrew Lippay. Sophomores: 
Russell Herman, Thomas Kenat, 
Hayden Lipp, John Rothkopf.
Thistle Staff
The 1962 Thistle is interested in 
students who would like to sell 
advertising and Thistles. They will 
be given a chance to receive free 
copies of the 1962 Thistle on a 
commission basis.
There are also a few other po­
sitions available. Now is the time
The look of a Coach 
House sport coat is 
natural shouldered and 
traditional. It’s stand 
on cloth, cut and color 
will easily pass the 
purist’s scrutiny. This 
particular Dacron and 
Linen s^X)rt coat is 
$35.00. Tapered sport 
shirts do compliment 
this at $5.00. Matching 
ascots at $3.50. Your 
inspection is invited.
ttlieCoach ifiouse
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill 
Phone JA 1-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday 
evenings until 9:00
to become familiar with the many 
phases of production and business 
because the 1963 Thistle staff will 
soon be selected.
Meetings are held every Friday 
night in room 53 or write to This­
tle, Box 122, Campus Mail.
U. M. O. C.
Nominations tor Ugliest Man on 
Campus are due April 7. Any stu­
dent organization wishing to enter 
a candidate may get an official 
entry form at the Skibo informa­
tion desk. This form must be re­
turned to U.M.O.C. e/o Alpha Phi 
Omega, Box 282, Campus Mail 
before April 7. For further in* 
formation contact A1 Pollock, MU.
You mean 
you put a9 
our money 
in a Union National 
Bank savings 
account?
Sure did. They 
pay 3now— 
and they’re the 
only bank in town 
that pays the 
Interest four times 
a year. We earn 
more money 
that way.
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Subtle Soundt tor 
Swingin' People
JA 1-8384
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
^CARNE GISTAS UN OCCF HNRSSNL Y1asY1h ^SFSRUn HNRSSNL dCRNE HeFP 
Yi1l ^CRgSt GISTASL fUonUTF 
11u1 HSISTNE GISTAS m llTF HNRSSN UN yNE GISTASL pSUISR ^UnntL Pa. 
9URSTNAr B kCvvSn m cC?SR pARRSnn m .CRUCvCnetL N?C C33ewSt
Fe4U*el #**?*
Sub wUT gUTo ?eNE AB g— rUnn
*e Spie« tfeoifcer federet tepeett taewreoee CerpereWe#
On Campuswith
tleonbdrrw
(Author of “1 Was a Teen-age Dwarf”,“The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
CRAM COURSE NO. Is 
MODERN EUROPEAN HISTORY
The school year draws rapidly to a close, and it’s been a fun 
year, what with learning the twist, attending public executions, 
and walking our cheetahs—but are we ready for final exams? 
Some of us, I fear, are not. Therefore, in these few remaining 
columns, I propose to forego levity and instead offer a series 
of cram courses so that we may all be prepared at exam time.
We will start with Modern European History. Strictly de­
fined, Modern European History covers the history of Europe 
from January 1, 1962, to the present. However, in order to 
provide employment for more teachers, the course lias been 
moved back to the Age of Pericles, or the Renaissance, as it is 
jocularly called.
The single most important fact to remember about Modern 
European History is the emergence of Prussia. As we all know, 
Prussia was originally called Russia. The “P” was purchased 
from Persia in 1874 for $24 and Manhattan Island. This later 
became known as Guy Fawkes Day.
Persia, without a “P” was, of course, called Ersia. This so 
embarrassed the natives that they changed the name of the 
country to Iran. This led to a rash of name changing. Mesopo­
tamia became Iraq, Schleswig-Holstein became Saxe-Coburg, 
B<*mia-Herzegovina became Cleveland. There was even talk in 
stable old England about changing the name of the country, 
but it was forgotten when the little princes escaped from the 
Tower and set fire to Pitt, the Elder.
Meanwhile Johannes Gutenberg was quietly inventing the 
printing press, for which we may all be grateful, believe you 
me! Why grateful? I’ll tell you why grateful. Because without 
Gutenberg’s invention, there would be no printing on cigarette 
packs. You would not know when you bought cigarettes whether 
you were getting good Marlboros or some horrid imitation. You 
could never be sure that you were buying a full-flavored smoke 
with a pure white filter, a cigarette that lets you settle back 
and get comfortable—in short, a Marlboro. It is a prospect to 
chill the bones and turn the blood to sorghum—so if you are 
ever in Frank-furt am Main, drop in and say thanks to Mr. 
Gutenberg. He is elderly—408 years old last birthday—but 
still quite active in his laboratory. In fact, only last Tuesday he 
invented the German short-haired pointer.
But I digress. Back to Modern European History. Let us 
turn -now to that ever popular favorite, France.
France, as we all know, is divided into several departments.
There is the Police Department, the Fire Department, the 
Gas and Water Department, and the Bureau of Weights and 
Measures. There is also Madame Pompadour, but that need 
not concern us because it is a dirty story and is only taught to 
graduate students.
Finally, let us take up Italy—the newest European nation. 
Italy did not become a unified state until 1848 when Garibaldi, 
Cavour, and Victor Emmanuel threw three coins in the Trevi 
Fountain. This lovely gesture so enchanted all of Europe that 
William of Orange married Mary Stuart and caused a potato 
famine in Ireland. This, in turn, resulted in Pitt, the Younger.
All of this may seem a bit complicated, but be of good cheer. 
Everything was happily resolved at the Congress of Vienna 
where Metternich traded Parma to Talleyrand for Mad Ludwig 
of Bavaria. Then everybody waltzed till dawn and then, tired 
but content, they started the Thirty Years’ War. © aVi v” shuim»*
Today you can buy Marlboros all over Europe, but you might have to pay a premium. In all 50 of these United Staten, 
however, you get that fine Marlboro flavor, that excellent 
Marlboro filter, in tlip-top box or »oft pack at regulation 
popular prices•

---------------------------------------------------

Willy Leaves 
Morewood
It’s Saturday night . . . not 1:30. 
.. . but 1:31. Shame! Another late 
minute! Is it not a trifle consoling 
that the security officer who 
opens the door of your home away 
from home is a smiling, comfort­
able man who seems to care? NO 
MORE!
It’s 2:30 on an exam night . . . 
You’re dying for a coke, but you 
have no change ... or perhaps 
no money at all. Where do you 
go? To the man downstairs with 
the pockets full of dimes and 
nickels and the willingness of gift 
or lend. NO MORE! !
For those of you who don’t 
know the name of our dorm 
father . . . It’s Willy. WILLY. 
NO MORE! !
The preceding is the introduc­
tion to a petition composed by 
Shelley Slate, found posted 
throughout Morewood Saturday 
morning.
The petition was circulated in 
the hope that the administration 
would consider allowing Wilbert 
Beckwith, better known as Willy, 
to remain despite the plans to 
place Pinkerton guards in all 
campus guard positions.
Willy, who is associated with 
the Allied Detective Agency, has j 
been a guard in Morewood for the j 
past four years. At 1:30, Satur- j 
day, March 31, Willy’s last night j 
of duty, a party was given for j 
him by Morewood girls, house­
mothers, and faculty, as a fare­
well gesture.
Willy chose the TARTAN as his 
means of expressing his appreci­
ation for the kindness and coop­
eration he has received during his 
four years at Tech. Expressing his 
regrets at leaving, he said, “Be- 
leive me, I will miss you girls 
very much.”
WRITE 
FOR
TARTAN
1 "
Wednesday, April 4. 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pa*e 3
S’n S Budget Causes 
Congress Controversy
The March 28, 1962 meeting of Student Congress was 
highlighted by the controversy aroused by the motion pre­
sented to accept the 1962 budget of Scotch ’n Soda. Bill Ellis, 
¡|# president* turned the meeting over to “Doc” Fetcho who 
then proceeded to question the necessity of certain items 
listed in the proposed budget. A motion to table the issue 
until the next meeting was not^----------------------------—---------------------—-
carried and the final vote, 14-12, ' y T> •
resulted m the approval of the JOHeS KeCeiVeS
budget as it now stands.
The vote on the representation 
amendment was tabled until the 
next meeting.
Tom Ference reported that $580 
had been received by Campus 
Chest thus far. This amount rep­
resents 80 per cent return; the 
final report will be presented after 
Spring Carnival.
Bill Ellis discussed the Disci­
plinary Committee’s plans to curb 
library misuse. Those who mu­
tilate books so as to make them 
useless shall be expelled. Those 
who repeatedly disturb others in 
the library shall be tried by Stu­
dent Court.
Elections of the Congress repre­
sentatives for the schol year 1962- 
63 will be held during the as­
sembly hour, 11:30 a.m., on Tues­
day, May 1, 1962. Present rep­
resentatives are responsible for 
signing up rooms for their re­
spective groups. Nomination pro­
cedure will be announced soon.
ASCE Fellowship
For the second consecutive year, 
a Tech graduate student has been 
selected as the recipient of the 
American Society of Civil En­
gineers’ Research Fellowship.
Russel C. Jones, a doctoral 
candidate in the department of 
civil engineering, was chosen for 
the award from young civil en­
gineers across the country.
Mr. Jones will receive a grant 
of $5,000 from the A.S.C.E. for re­
search towards his Ph.D. degree. 
Under the terms of the grant, he 
will devote full time during the 
1962-63 academic year to his re­
search using well established 
dislocation models to predict be­
havior of materials on a macro­
scopic scale.
For two years immediately fol­
lowing receipt of his B.S. degree, 
Mr. Jonesc was a junior engineer 
for Hunting, Larsen and Dun- 
nells. Consulting Engineers, Pitts­
burgh.
Viv" Rehearses 
Dance and Music
[continued from page 1] 
Dance Educators of America and 
the Ballet Repertoire.
The music for “Viv” is in the 
best of hands with Musical Di­
rector Dave Stock. A senior com­
position and trumpet major, Dave 
boasts five years of experience 
with Scotch 6 Soda Club, during 
which time he has handled every j 
major musical assignment. Two 
years ago he was the Musical 
Director for S ’n S’s production, 
“On the Rocks.”
Dave has also written several 
songs for past shows, including 
“Pale Blues” for “Set ’Em Up 
Again” and “I Never Thought I d 
Be the One” for “On the Rocks.”
In addition to S ’n S, Dave has 
been busy in the Music Depart­
ment, playing first triumpet in 
the Orchestra. On April 15 he will 
be a featured soloist in a concert 
to be given by the Orchestra.
Dave has collected a fine music 
staff to assist him. It includes As­
sistant Director Sherman Himel- 
blau and Arranger Cal Custer. As­
sisting Dave Stock and Pat Moore, 
co-composers, are Wesley Ward 
and Bill Hageman.
Daw and his crew have recently 
completed all the arrangements 
and scoring for the show. The 
first band rehearsal is called for 
today. Because of the unusual 
musical numbers in “Viv,” such 
as a Russian dance and a Twist, 
the orchestra includes a piccolo,
Arlene Winner Reigns 
As Regimental Queen
Arlene Winner, crowned Queen 
of the Tech Pershing Rifles Com­
pany during the P.R. Winter 
Dance, now holds the rank of 
Honorary Colonel and is the first 
Regimental Queen chosen from 
Tech since 1957.
After being selected at Tech 
Arlene’s picture and a resume of 
her activities was sent to Regimen­
tal Headquarters at Penn State for 
competition with the sponsors of 
the thirteen other companies in the 
Fifth Regiment. These companies 
are located at such schools as Pitt, 
Duquesne, and Penn State.
The Regimental Staff by evalua­
tion of each sponsor, then chose 
Arlene the Regimental Queen for 
1962. The thirteen Regimental 
Queens are now in competition for 
the position of National Sponsor.
Saturday, March 24. Arlene was 
escorted by Lt. Charles Caqurt of 
Pershing Rifles to Indiantown 
Gap Military Reservation to re­
ceive her crown.
Arlene Winner
Arlene, a freshman business
studies major 
Queen last fall.
was Homecoming
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS Or HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
I*« St. (Near C*ra»f r*rb»« »ad B»aqaet)
New Hours: S A.M. to S P.M. Daily MU. J-996S
Favorite Guard
*Tareyfon's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!*
says Titus (Pretzel Bender) Ursus, darling of the Coliseum 
crowd. Says Pretzel Bender, “After the amphitheater I relax 
and have a Tareyton. Amo, amas... everyone amat Tareyton, 
Et tu will, too, Tareyton’s one filter cigarette that really 
delivers de gustibus.”
DUAL FILTER
Tareyton
Ihtdmä ’ I.ekGb is mr middle mme
PURE WHITE 
OUTER FILTER

---------------------------------------------------

Pag* 4 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 4, 1962
Editorial
Reading, A Worthwhile Activity
The start of what is termed the new “ac­
tivities year” at Carnegie Tech rapidly ap­
proaches for most student activities. “Stu­
dent leaders” search for bigger and better 
positions in which to exercise their capabili­
ties.
Anywhere from hot controversy in wildly 
disputed elections to quiescent acceptance of 
new appointments may linger in the back­
ground of each announcement of an organiza­
tion’s new officers. But, whatever the pre­
liminaries, the outcome is much the same—a 
new group of students will be committing 
themselves in time and energy to the lead­
ership and functioning of a student activity.
What considerations, if any, should such 
students entertain before making a commit­
ment of this nature? Among the usual con­
cerns such as the number of units being car­
ried, the quantity of academic work antici­
pated, and the amount of time the activity 
will require, the TARTAN would like to in­
sert one not often heard voiced among Tech 
students.
A statement by Mabel Newcomer from 
her book A Century of Higher Education for 
American Women indicates the nature of this 
concern. She writes,
“The success of higher education will
If I Were President . . .
A Symbol for our Future
By Paul B. Farrell, Jr.
Today we begin a new era—as Carnegie University.
The importance of the change in our name will be 
more than semantic. For many years there has been little 
doubt in anyone’s mind that we have long ago passed the 
period in our growth when we trained technicians for in­
dustry. Today we are educating professionals.
Nor are we an institute of technology in the modern 
day terminol^^^Neither Cal Tech or M.I.T., Case or Rens­
selaer has diverse an array of outstanding departments 
which are not of a “technical institute” character. Margaret 
Morrison Women’s College, The Graduate School of Industrial Ad­
ministration. the Psychology Department, and the various Fine Arts 
Department distinguish us. They distinguish us as a university.
In other words, changing our official title to Carnegie Univer­
sity should not be considered as unusual or undeserved. We have 
gradually developed to the present decade and we are in reality a 
modern university. As a university, the name “Institute of Tech­
nology” is a misnomer, an anachronism, even a deterrent. Although 
it was appropriate for the first half century of our progress, today 
it is misleading.
Yes, this new name is more than a semantic clarification. With 
the prestige and privileges of being nationally known as a univer­
sity, we must also accept greater responsibilities and we do accept 
them. Our internal structure will be altered to enhance our existing 
departments, we will be adding strength to each department and 
new departments to complement the present ones in order to fulfill 
our obligations as a university.
Externally, we are creating more than an image, we are mak­
ing a firm and formal commitment to students and scholars, to in­
dustry to the citizen, nation and the world.
The board of trustees believes that this commitment as a uni­
versity deserves strong support. Carnegie University, as a symbol 
of an academic ideal will draw to itself students and scholars of 
even greater quality as well as quantity. In order to realize this 
ideal, the chairman of the board and I wish to make a second an­
nouncement.
Carnegie University will begin this new era with a one hundred 
million dollar university development fund program.
The groundwork for this purpose has already begun. Initial 
pledges from the trustees, certain foundations, corporations, and 
alumni have given us a big head start of almost fourteen million 
dollars. I am deeply gratified to find the eager support many people 
have been willing to give and I am now confident that our goal 
will be realized.
These two complementary moves will permit our university 
to take its rightful place among the ranks of the great universities. 
We have a vision of what a great university must be—this vision 
is our goal. We can not be a conservative defender of the present, 
but must be a community of students and scholars continually 
searching for the meaning of the next century.
Since the way of progress creates friction with the status 
quo, a great university must be a great and idealistic leader. A great 
university must foster an atmosphere of academic freedom for re­
sponsible scholars and students of superior intellect. Design for the
depend on the quality of students going 
to college far more than on the quality 
of the educational offering. The faculty 
can greatly assist in the learning process, 
but learning is something one must do 
for oneself, and able students sometimes 
obtain a good education under the most 
adverse circumstances. I met a young 
German woman after World War II who 
was doing outstanding research in eco­
nomics. Yet her entire university covirse 
had been pursued during the Nazi regime 
when instruction in the social sciences 
was at low ebb. I asked her how, under 
these conditions, she had been able to 
learn, and she answered simply: ‘I read 
books.’ ”
Reading books—this is an important part 
of college education. Yet how many of us 
ever read anything outside specified class 
work during the school year? Book reading 
is a very “legitimate” extra curricula activity 
even though it does not have a constitution 
and is not recognized by Student Congress! 
Therefore, perhaps all students, leaders and 
followers, as they plan for the new activi­
ties year should consider this activity and 
the time it requires in spite of the fact that 
there are no meetings to attend!
.......................... Reader's Write
Letters On 
Mice and Men 
Tech Culture
Better Boy Tries 
To Defend Men
Editor, The Tartan:
In the past Tech girls have 
flooded the Tartan with faults they 
have found in Tech men. I W'ould 
like to defend the male population 
of CIT with some facts I have wit­
nessed.
I must laugh at the absurd ex­
cuses some Tech girls use to break 
a date. I’m sure everyone must 
have heard of the old line, “I’m 
sick,” and indeed this is often 
true. But when a girl has a friend 
say that she's in the infirmary, 
she should remember to inform 
the housemother.
Name Withheld
future.:—a 
realized.
With 
developm 
lenge to 
farther ii 
(April 4,
f which our ideals as a great university are
Carnegie University as our lodestone and the 
m as the booster we have a challenge—a chal- 
A challenge for students and scholars to grasp 
>w through their education and research today.
Will Skibo Show 
P and D Projects?
Editor, The Tartan:
I should like to recommend that 
current work of Tech Painting and 
Design students be exhibited in 
Skibo. I realize that such work 
is on display often in the Hewlett 
Gallery and always in the halls on 
the top floors of Fine Arts. How­
ever, it would seem that an ex­
hibit in Skibo would be seen by 
students from a wider cross-sec­
tion of Tech departments.
That work which has already 
been exhibited in Skibo has been 
quite interesting. Perhaps addi­
tional exhibits could be used to 
educate the supposedly uncultured 
engineers and scientists. Certainly 
such exhibits could provide com­
munication between departments 
tha often tend to ignore each 
other.
G. Julian
Grad. Physics
The Carnegie TARTAN wel­
comes letters from readers pre­
senting their views and news. 
All letters must be signed with 
the name and address of the 
writer, but a name may be with­
held at the writer's request. If 
possible, letters should be type­
written and should be as brief as 
possible. All letters are subject 
to condensation and editing. Let­
ters containing obvious misstate­
ments or lacking in good taste 
will not be printed. Letters must, 
reach the TARTAN Office by 
2:00 p.m. Sunday to be included 
in the following Wednesday’s 
paper.
Looking Forward
Political 
Extremists
By Allan J. Topol
The American political scene in the 1960’s is. dominated 
by two schools of thought: Liberalism and Conservatism. 
The value of these two sets of theories is that one may 
draw ideas from them in whatever proportion one desires. 
Thus for example we call President Kennedy a Liberal since 
he draws more of his ideas from Liberalism and fewer from 
Conservatism.'
However, Avhen these political theories cease to become 
a reservoir of ideas and become the dogma or credo of a 
faith to which subscribers blindly adhere, it is American 
political life which suffers most.
The purpose of this article is not to measure the relative merits 
of Liberalism and Conservatism. It is rather to point out the dangers 
to American politics when these are practiced to an extreme degree. 
In order to do this I should like to first look briefly at what Con­
servatism is, what Liberalism is, and how they differ.
In selecting the most rudimentary principles in order to define 
Liberalism and Conservatism, one is almost inevitably drawn to 
the terms “liberty” and “equality.” Liberals and Conservatives dif­
fer in the relative significance which they attach to these often 
conflicting ideas.
Liberals tend to consider equality before liberty. Their primary 
objective is to reduce disparities among people whether these exist 
in terms of wealth or Civil Rights. In doing so, they rely upon a 
strongly centralized federal government to aid them.
The Conservatives tend to place liberty ahead of equality. In 
doing so, they stress the absence of governmental intervention or 
control. They feel that the best government is that which governs 
least. They believe that states should have a greater measure of re­
sponsibility than the federal government is inclined to permit.
Let us turn now to some of the ways in which American po­
litical life suffers when these two ideologies are practiced in the 
extreme. First, extreme Liberalism and extreme Conservatism fail 
to reconcile the national security with their ideas. Extreme Liberals 
are faced with the problem of whether equality of expression en­
titles members of the Communist Party to propogate their ideas as 
well as other Americans? Can the American government grant 
equal immunity from civil reprisal to those plotting the overthrow 
of our government?
On the other hand, Conservatism fails to consider that a de­
centralized nation cannot possibly meet the exigencies of the cold 
war as well as a centralized nation. Russell Kirk, one of the fore­
most spokesmen for Conservatism, points out, when he was a Falk 
Lecturer at Carnegie Tech, that Conservatism is impossible in a 
time of national crisis. The shroud of state’s right’s which Mr. Gold- 
water and others hide beneath in order to further their program 
was buried almost 100 years ago at Appomattax. A decentralized 
United States will only aid the Communist attempt at world dom­
ination.
Second, too often men adhering to dogmas cease to think for 
themselves. The ideas have already been promulgated. Hence men 
choose only the ideas from their respctive ideologies rather than 
the best from both.
Third, distinct ideologies claim to possess panaceas. Yet in 
pursuing these panaceas one is often blinded to political realities. 
Our problems are so complex that the path to solution is rarely a 
simple one.
The fourth danger.of these extreme ideologies is that American 
political life becomes disordered. With both Governor Rockefeller 
and Senator Goldwater in the Republican Party, this party no longer 
represents a consistent set of ideas. With effective sectional and 
ideological coalitions in Congress, legislation is often impeded.
It can be argued ,and I feel fairly successfully that Conserva­
tives are in general more dogmatic than their Liberal counterparts. 
Yet regardless of this generalization, there are still some extremists 
in both camps.
It has often been said that the United Slates’ past greatness 
has been due to an absence of political ideologies. Whether one 
accepts this theory or not, he can still ask himself whether the con­
verse is true. Will America’s present greatness be destroyed by the 
presence of clashing political ideologies?
“‘‘CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CANNEQIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557: Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager,
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub­
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa. *
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2 00.
Editor-in-Chief...............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ...........................................Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager ........................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager............................................................ Phil Chau
News Editor...........................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor .................................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor....................................................... John Blue
Layout Editor ..................................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor......................................................Carol Hosken

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 4, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 5
CURTAIN GOING UP!
By Christopher Allen
Mills and Mills Ltd.
First there was “Tiger Bay” with John and Haley Mills, 
then thert was “Parent Trap” with Haley Mills and Haley 
Mills, and now there is “Whistle Down the Wind,” a movie 
starring Haley Mills, based on a novel written by her mother. 
Every time the Mills family gets together, some strange al­
chemy produces gold, aesthetically as well as fiscally, and 
“Whistle Down the Wind” is the most golden to date.
% For anyone who enjoys excellent movies, this picture 
is a must. It truly has something for everyone. The story is 
filled with human relationships, religion, child wonder, ethe­
real love, theology, psychology, and criminology. It is, at 
the same time both spine-tinglingly suspenseful, and care­
free, a combination which seems to exist only in British 
films. In addition the film has what I think is the finest piece of 
ensemble acting to be filmed in many years. The main group con­
sists of three children, all viruosi and headed by one of the best 
young actresses today, and one man.
The three children discover a fugitive from justice in their barn, 
Q>and, due to a set of peculiar circumstances, believe him to be Jesus 
Christ. They try to keep his existence a secret, but. as children 
will, they disclose the presence of the Christ to their contemporaries. 
With the infinite wisdom of child fantasy, the band of enlightened 
kids suspect that if the adult community finds out about the return 
of the Messiah they will crucify him for the second time.
As the days wear on the situation for both the children and 
their god becomes more difficult. Getting sustenence to Jesus 
is a problem, and for his part, the man has no wherewithal to 
sustain the faith of the little believers. Then one of the children 
is disillusioned, and becomes aware of the fact that “Jesus” is just 
fellow. Were it not for the fact that the others still believe, im­
mediate disclosure might have been the result. But again, child 
fantasy works its magic and gives another gift of time to all. Alas, 
as all imaginary flights must, the masquerade ends. But the children 
are let down with a gentle hand, not a thud, and their belief is not 
entirely in vain, for they have, by their own faith in him, restored 
humanity to a murderer.
The movie is more than a story, it is an acute insight into the 
minds of children, and their view of the adult world. It is skill­
fully handled and delightfully executed. And part of the delight 
is due, in no small way, to the score for the background music. 
0The accompaniment is perfect for the film, and it alone is a pleas­
ure. The cinematic technique is beautifully sharp, and the transi­
tions, usually weak points in film, are the easiest and most telling 
in many a day.
If you want to see a movie that is art, then see “Whistle Down 
the Wind.”
ACADEMY AWARDS
The Academy of Arts and Sciences, which last year gave its 
annual awards to the ever-ailing Miss Taylor, the ever-smiling Mr. 
Lancaster, and the temporarily-biting THE- APARTMENT, is back 
again ... on Monday, April 9. So here I go sticking my neck out 
^vith my personal choices and those I feel the Academy will select. 
PERSONAL
Best Actress: Geraldine Page in SUMMER AND SMOKE
Best Actor: Maximilian Schell in JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG
Best Supporting Actress: Judy Garland in JUDGMENT NUREMBERG
Best Supporting Actor: George Chakiris in WEST SIDE STORY
Best Film: JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG
ACADEMY
Best Actress: Piper Laurie in THE HUSTLER 
Best Actor: Maximilian Schell in JUDGMENT AT NUREMBERG 
Best Supporting Actress: Rita Moreno in WEST SIDE STORY 
feest Supporting Actor: Montgomery Clift in JUDGMENT AT
NUREMBERG 
Best Film: WEST SIDE STORY
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION 
WILL CONDUCT ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
TO DISCUSS HOW YOU CAN 
HELP AMERICA CONQUER SPACE
At North American Aviation you can assist the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration in the planned 
orderly exploration of space. NAA’s Space & Informa­
tion Systems Division is engrossed in some of the most 
exciting engineering and scientific space work in the 
world today. This includes manned, lunar, and earth or­
bital space vehicles. You can join in this work at North 
American if your major is in physics, math or engineer­
ing (electrical, mechanical, aeronautical, civil, or chemi­
cal)—and if you are interested in any of the following 
fields :
• POWER GENERATION SYSTEMS
• ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
• GUIDANCE AND CONTROL
• SPACE COMMUNICATIONS
• INSTRUMENTATIONS
• ADVANCED SYSTEMS
• Interviews will be on April 6 « pQr time and place of 
interview contact your College Placement Office.
’ SPACE & INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 
NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION
• AERO-THERMODYNAMICS
• STRUCTURAL SCIENCES
• PROPULSION SYSTEMS
• OPERATIONS ANALYSIS
• COMPUTER OPERATIONS
• FLIGHT DYNAMICS
CULTURAL
CALENDAR
In performing Beethoven's 
“Ninth Symphony” this Friday 
evening and Sunday afternoon at 
Syria Mosque, Conductor William 
Steinberg and the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra will be join­
ed by four internationally famous 
vocalists—Mariam Horne, Regina 
Resnik, Robert Rounseville, and 
Richard Cross—and the combined 
choruses of Carnegie Tech and 
Duquesne University. The Or­
chestra will also play Haydn’s 
“Cello Concert,’ with Theo Salz- 
man as guest soloist, and Mozart’s 
“Prelude and Fugue in c minor for 
Strings.”
The Pittsburgh Savoyards Or­
chestra, conducted by Zola Levitt, 
will present a Spring Concert Sat­
urday evening, 8:30 p.m., at the 
Y.M. & W.H.A. in Oakland. The 
Program will consist of a Gilbert 
and Sullivan one act comedy opera 
“Trial by Jury,” excerpts from 
“The Mikado,and a preview from 
“The Pirates of Penzance,” to be 
presented May 18 and 19. Tickets 
are available at the Pitt Book 
Center, Gimbels’, and the Red 
Quill in Shadvside.
Birgit Nilsson will sing the title 
role of the hapless opera star, 
Floria Tosca, In the Pittsburgh 
Opera production of Puccini’s 
“Tosca” at Seria Mosque Thursday 
and Saturday evenings at 8:15 
p.m. The leading male role of 
the ill-fated artist Cavaradossi 
will be sung Dy Umberto Borso.
Besides Miss Nilsson, the cast
will include three other Metropol­
itan Opera stars: Frank Valentino 
in the role of the sinister police 
chief Scarpia; Lawrence David­
son, the Sacristan; and Andrea 
Valis, the police agent Spoletta.
Richard Karp, now in his 20th 
season as general director of the 
Pittsburgh Opera, will conduct the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
for the production of “Tosca.” 
Tickets are available .at the Pitts­
burgh Opera office, 1522 Farmers 
Bank Building, and at the Pitt 
Book Center.
The “Three Penny Opera,” one 
of the most explosively successful 
musicals ever staged at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse, has been ex­
tended through Sunday, May 13, 
in the Hamlet Street Theater.
Also currently at the Playhouse, 
“Macbeth,” starring Robert Log­
gia and Salome Jense, will close 
Sunday, April 15.
A double feature presentation, 
“Zoo Story” and “American 
Dream,” will open April 21 in the
Theater Upstairs. “South Pacific’1 
will open in the Craft Avenue 
Theater April 28. Both these 
Playhouse productions are al­
ready finding strong box-office 
sales.
LEWIS
RADIO ¦ ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
NIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
Sales - Repairs 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
eiFCO INC Itt*
QCO ill
Case in point - the
}Lindy
UIKAdWgn’
non-rtfillablt ratractabt* ball pw
Extra length. Extra-long ink supply. Lang 
long-fasting. You never refill. Lang (fine 
or medium) paint You see what you 
writ«. Retractable. Easy top button ac* 
tion. Six colors. Color of the pen is 
color of the ink. Perfect balance. No writ­
ing fatigue. Smooth-writing. No smudging, 
no skipping, no false starts, The Lindy 
UTRACTAPEN. It measures up.
ito make a long story short...
feM iiade#
minufacturtd by ,u 
ItRd» ^C ARN Inc. Culver City. Calif. U.S.*.
For Shoes See . • .WALLYS
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night 'till 9 P.M.
Nobody's really suggesting romance will be yours if you wear 
U.S. Keds.But it is true that Keds are the best-fitting, the most 
comfortable, good-looking and long-wearing fabric casuals you 
can buy. Because Keds are made with costlier fabrics. With an 
exclusive shockproofed arch cushion and cushioned innersole. 
In short, with all those “extras” that make them your best buy 
in the long run. Head for your nearest Keds dealer. Get that 
Keds look, that Keds fit...GET THAT GREAT KEDS FEELING!
•Both U.S. Keds and the blue label are registered trademarks Su
United States Rubber
ftock«fell«r C*ot#r, Ntw York 20, N«« Yoffc

---------------------------------------------------

SHADYSIDE THEATRE
5518 Walnut St. MU. 2-1901
NOW SHOWING
Page 6 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 4, 1962
MÜRIEIPAVLOW
Guest Star JAMES1BERTMSTICE
Peace Corps Developes Countries
Tech Grad Helps 
Develop Columbia
David L. Crozier, a 1961 gradu­
ate of Tech, is now a volunteer 
member of the Peace Corps serv­
ing in Colombia.
Crozier and his fellow Corpsmen 
are assisting the natives of a back 
eountry area, to build roads, eque- 
ducts, bridges, and schools and to 
begin a literacy campaign.
Dave and 61 other volunteers 
received their training in a spe­
cial eight week course (60-hours 
a week) at Rutgers University and 
a month-long course at the Tibai- 
tita Institute near Bogota, Colom­
bia.
The project he is working on 
was designed to help the country 
develop economic and social sta­
bility in its rural areas and to 
raise its educational and living 
standards. Colombian President 
Alberto Lleras Camargo has called 
this work by the Peace Corps “the 
finest way in which the U. S. could 
prove to the humble people of this 
and other lands that the primary 
purpose of its international aid 
program is to build a better life in 
all of the free world’s villages and 
neighborhoods.”
The Peace Corps, which cele­
brated its first birthday in Febru­
ary, at present has 698 volunteers 
serving in 12 countries. By June 
30 there will be up to 2,400 either 
at w'ork overseas or in training. 
By August more than 5,000 are 
scheduled to be actively partici­
pating in its various programs.
Mrs. Ross Answers 
Tech’s Questions
Mrs. Maris Ross, a 'field repre­
sentative of the United States 
Peace Corps, visited Carnegie Tech 
this month to talk to students in­
terested in joining the Corps. Her 
visit was part of a nationwide in­
formation program being conduct­
ed to explain the purpose of the 
new agency and the many oppor­
tunities it offers for overseas serv­
ice in the newly developing na­
tions of the world.
The two questions Tech students 
asked Mrs. Ross most frequently 
were: Would I be qualified to be­
come a member of the Peace 
Corps? and where would I fit in?
In answer to the first question, 
Mrs. Ross says that any American 
citizen Ii8 years of age or older is 
eligible to apply; there are no ed­
ucational requirements such as a 
college degree or a high school di­
ploma. All those interested in join­
ing the Corps are asked to take a 
comprehensive exam which lasts 
for 5 xk hours with a break for 
lunch. There is no passing grade; 
the exam is used only to deter­
mine the applicant’s interests and
abilities. Prior to taking this exam 
the applicant is requested to fill
out a questionnaire which is used 
in conjunction with the exam to 
evaluate interests. The most im­
portant requirement a Peace Corps 
volunteer must have is interest, 
the wish to help, to be a working 
part of the community in under­
developed countries. The Peace 
Corps will determine where you 
are most needed and would be of 
greatest help according to your in­
dividual talents.
At the present time the Peace 
Corps has 40 projects all over the 
world in Africa, Asia, Latin Amer­
ica, the West Indies,and Europe. 
Some countries have 2 or 3 proj­
ects running concurrently. Each 
project is of two years duration; 
therefore, Peace Corps volunteers 
must sign for a minimum of two 
years service. The training period 
conducted at various American 
colleges and universities runs from 
2 to 6 months and is included in the 
2 year commitment. The Peace 
Corps pays all expenses from the 
time you join until your 2 year 
period is terminated. Members are 
given a living allowance which 
covers food, clothing, housing, 
medical care, and miscellaneous
needs. In addition to this, mem­
bers receive $75 a month for the 
entire 2 year period. This pay­
ment is banked in the country 
in which the individual is serving. 
So when you leave the Corps a 
nest egg of $1800 waits you.
The Peace Corps needs teachers 
of all subjects, music, art, engi­
neering, math, sports, English, etc., 
and a teaching degree is not neces­
sary since members receive train­
ing in teaching methods. Volun­
teers interested in mechanics, elec­
tronics, and agriculture are also 
needed. If you feel the need to do 
something vital to help others the 
Peace Corps wants you. Question­
naires are available in the office 
of Mr. Raymond Parshall, Assist­
ant to President Warner, who rep­
resents the Peace Corps on our 
campus. The next exam is sched­
uled on Saturday, April 21, 1962 
at 8:30 a.m. on the 1st floor of 
the Victory Building at 9th Street 
and Liberty Avenue downtown. 
If you desire to join the Peace 
Corps any time this year fill out 
the questionnaire immediately and 
take the exam in April. To coin a 
phrase, “The Peace Corps needs 
you!”
UMOC is *': 
COMING
Varied Program
[continued from page 1 ]
b
Chicago
phony Orchestra, but will become 
head of the department of music
at Tech on July 1.
Miss Verzieux, who will ac­
company Mr. Harth, has also ap­
peared with him on other tours 
including his very successful 1959 
trip to France, Austria, Belgium, 
and Russia. She is a native of 
Paris, and is presently on the fac­
ulty of the Conservatoire in Paris. 
Primarily an accompanist, she has 
played many concerts with Paul 
Forteliere, famous French ’cellist.
Mr. Harth is a native of Cleve­
land and attended Cleveland
Institute of Music. He has
made several coast to coast tours 
and several international tours in 
recent years. In 1957, he was 
named Laureate in the Henry 
Wienieawski Competition in Po­
land and was the first American 
to finish in the finals for the prize 
founded in 1935. In May, 1961, he 
toured Russia, under the sponsor­
ship of the Russian government. 
In Chicago he has held a profes- 
forship in music at De Paul Uni­
versity and an appointment as 
conductor of the Evanston Sym­
phony Orchestra.
PROGRAM 
Sonata (Duo) in A major, op. 162 
Allegro modersto 
Scherzo (presto)
Andantino 
Allegro Vivace
Franz Schubert
Sonata (“Ballade”), op. 27, no. 3 
for violin solo
Eugene Ysaye
Sonata, op. 18
Allegro ma non troppo 
Improvisation (Andante canta­
bile )-
Andante - Allegro
Richard Strauss
Tzigane (Rhapsodie de Concert) 
Maurice Ravel
Allegro Animosamente
Giuseppe Tartini 
Adagio Zoltán Kodaly
Danses Tziganes
Seree Rachmaninoff
fWWfM9KdV9VDH ^fM *fKM 9fbfMMfO
An ethylene plant in Texas; a steam power station 
in Brazil; a hydroelectric plant in the Pacific North­
west; an oil refinery in Canada; in Maine, the 
world’s first commercial Chemi-Groundwood pulp 
mill; a phenol plant in California; oil refineries in 
Italy and Australia — these are some of the recent 
projects designed and constructed by Stone & 
Webster Engineering Corporation.
The Corporation also has pioneered in engineer­
ing and construction for nuclear projects.
During 73 years of growth and achievement, the 
primary function of Stone & Webster Engineering 
Corporation has always been to render highly techni­
cal, professional engineering service to its clients.
The Corporation has opportunities for a limited 
number of new engineering graduates who wish to 
participate in the engineering and construction of 
projects in every branch of the steam power, nuclear 
power, industrial, petroleum, petrochemical and 
chemical fields.
If you have the personal and technical qualifica­
tions required — if you look forward to advance­
ment limited only by your own ability — if you're 
interested in the idea of becoming a pacemaker in 
your engineering generation — we invite you to get 
in touch with us at 49 Federal Street, Boston, Mass.
Our Employment Representative is coming to your 
campus on Your Placement Office will give
you details.
Ask your Placement 
Office for a copy of 
our booklet “Stone 
& Webster and You”
STONE & WEBSTER
New York, 90 Broad Street Boston, 49 Federal Street 
Houston San Francisco Los Angeles
Engineering Corporation
SeattleTorontoCalgary

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 4, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 7
PiKA Hears Col. Suster Discuss Causes and Effects of WW II Teaching Book
by Andrew Langlois 
and Barry Shane
On Thursday, March 29, the 
members of the Pi Kappa Alpha 
Fraternity heard an informal lec­
ture by Colonel J. J. Suster, the 
fourth lecturer in PiKA’s 1961- 
1962 Cultural Speaker Series. 
Colonel Suster, who was twice 
awarded the British Medal of 
Honor for his activities during 
World War II, is presently a news 
commentator and analyst, a con­
sultant to the United States Gov­
ernment (he had just returned 
from a conference with Secretary 
of State Dean Rusk), and an in­
structor of Political Science and 
Russian in two Pittsburgh col­
leges.
In his lecture Colonel Suster dis­
cussed World War II - some of the 
events leading up to it, his part in 
it, and its effects and their rela­
tionship to the present day situa­
tion. Colonel Suster pointed out 
that both Hitler and Mussolini 
started the war in 1930 in the 
form of a “war to win the minds 
of men"; it was not until 1939 
that they had gained enough mo­
mentum to try to overtake other 
countries than their own. It was 
at this time that the “hot war” 
broke out.
Suster’s Role
Colonel Suster’s part in World 
War II began with his participa­
tion in the Czechoslovakian air­
borne units. While serving in this 
group, he was asked by the Ger­
mans to join them. He, of course, 
refused. Shortly after the war be­
gan, he secured a position which 
placed him in charge of distribut­
ing gasoline and lubricants to the 
German forces in Czechoslovakia. 
While in this vital German posi­
tion he was sabotaging numerous 
shipments of these supplies - put­
ting sugar in the gasoline and fine 
sand in the lubricants. He was also 
notifying the British of the where- 
' abouts of every shipment of fuel 
and lubricants going to the Ger­
man forces and of the size of these 
forces. For this espionage work, 
Colonel Suster received his first 
medal of honor. While serving in 
this capacity, the Colonel refused 
to befriend a woman who ’ived in 
his building. In anger, she called 
the Gestapo and made up a story 
that the Colonel was an espionage 
agent. In reality, she had no idea 
of his subversive activities. He 
was arrested, found guilty, and 
sentenced to be hanged in 48 
hours. With just a few hours left, 
he escaped, only to be caught 
again a few days later and placed 
in an unbearably crowded prison 
(nineteen men, women and chil­
dren in a 10’ x 15’ cell). When he 
jumped off a forty foot wall to 
escape, the prison guards were 
evidently so surprised that they 
didn’t even shoot at him.
After being caught again in 
Yugoslavia, where the police 
captain, a member of the under­
ground forces, released him, Col­
onel Suster returned to England.
$1
^CARNEGI
DRAWING BOARDS
Browns Hill 
Builders Supply Co.
In Squirrel Hill 
Call HA. 1-3500 - HA. 1-5900
nudei
WEBSTER HALL
You’ll rate with 'your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
totei Weteft Hail
4413 Fifth Av«nu* Pittsburgh 13, fa. 
TaUphon«: MAyflowar 1-7700
Colonel J. J. Suster
Here he organized ninety men to 
do espionage work behind the 
German lines. To his knowledge, 
only three of those men are living 
today.
For his part In the killing of
Hitler’s aide, Heydrich, Colonel 
Suster received his second Medal 
of Honor. The Germans, not being 
able to find Suster, put to death 
all the members of his family ex­
cept his young son. (Later, after 
Colonel Suster had found his son 
and relocated him In Russia, the 
13 year old boy was put to death 
for being “pro-American”).
Effects of WW II 
Speaking of the effects of 
World War II, Colonel Suster 
pointed out that the Berlin dis­
pute, the situation in Iran after 
the war, and numerous other in­
cidents were the results of treat­
ies and acts performed during the 
war. He commented upon Presi­
dent Roosevelt’s discontinuance of 
oil to Japan, claiming that this 
forced Japan into the war against 
her will, simply because she 
had to secure oil from some 
other sources. Colonel Sus­
ter pointed out President Roose­
velt’s promotion of Russia as a 
“great friend and ally of the 
American people,” despite the 
strong American dislike of Russia
and Communism which existed at 
that time. Suster felt that these 
pro-Russian fellings still exist and 
are detrimental to the United 
States’ cause today.
The Future 
In answer to the question “Will 
there be a major nuclear war?” 
Colonel Suster gave an emphatic 
“No!” He feels that both sides are 
aware of the destruction which 
such a war would bring, and 
neither side wants this to happen. 
He further feels that Russia will 
(indeed, he pointed out, they al­
ready have) ask us to join them 
against the “yellow peril of the 
East.” He went on to stress that 
today’s cold war is one of oppos­
ing ideologies, not opposing peo­
ples. That ideology which is 
stronger both at home and abroad 
will win in the end. He closed his 
talk by stressing that we empha­
size the American ideology (i.e. 
freedom and Democracy) abroad, 
rather than the American Way of 
life (standard of living) in order 
to succeed in the cold war battle.
Now Available
A shelf of about fifteen books 
concerning teaching has been set 
up adjacent to the Leisure Collec­
tion on the first floor in the Hunt 
Library. The new books shelf was 
the idea of Mr. Robert Lambert of 
the English Department.
Mr. Lambert says, “I designed 
the ‘About Teaching’ shelf to be 
a place where novels, plays, and 
poems about teaching—works that 
express the feel, the joy, the frus­
tration of the profession — stand 
side by side with psychological 
and scientific studies, so that books 
of fact and imagination are equal­
ly accessible to any one interested 
in teaching.
From now on, when someone 
asks me, ‘What’s it like to teach?,* 
I can send him to a library shelf 
where he can find out.”
Such books as Teacher in Amer­
ica, Goodbye, Mr. Chips, and Pure­
ly Academic are included in the 
collection. Any of these books 
may be borrowed for two weeks— 
without renewal privileges, how­
ever.
First field trip
Keep moving
One of the most important rules of girl watching is this: 
keep moving. In fact, it is always a good idea not only 
to move, but to appear to be going somewhere. (This is 
especially important on group field trips.) Beautiful girls, 
although they enjoy being watched, are instinctively sus­
picious of strollers and downright fearful of loiterers.
WHY BE AN AMATEUR?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY.
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW!
Intt etertnaiol yknwv Visit the editorial office of 
this publication for a free membership card in the world’s 
only society devoted to discreet, but relentless, girl watch­
gw'P Constitution of the society on reverse side of card.
This ad based on the book, "The Girl Watcher’s Guide.” Texti Copyright by Donald J. Sauers. Drawings: Copyright by Eldon Pedini. Reprinted by permission of Harper A Brothers.
9*1 to FrcJptl«/ iVmtuean h tut middU »ami
The man who is walking briskly, who looks like he’s 
“going places,” makes a better girl watcher. For one 
thing, he sees more total girls and in the end he enjoys 
his hobby more. (If you are planning an extended field 
trip-to Paris and Rome, for example-be sure to pack 
a couple of cartons of Pall Mall.)
Pall Mall’s 
natural mildness 
is so good 
to your taste!
So smooth, so satisfying, 
so downright smokeable!

---------------------------------------------------

'I’ve told you that Skin Bracer 
coois rather than burns.
Because it’s made with Menthol-lee.”
Quite, sir. And this..."
’Besides, that crisp, long-lasting Bracer 
aroma has a fantastic effect on girts."
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
“CREDIT-ABLE” SUMMERS
pCAMo U HCOo U ECAMofo
Go to an archeological “dig:” in Great Britain
Earn college credit at the Sorbonne, Universities of Hawaii, 
Perugia, Madrid and others
Relax on the glamorous Riviera
Meet students at universities abroad
Interview government officials in other countries
Tak riding, gliding and sailing courses in Germany or 
Switzerland
Study international law in Luxembourg
Take a job in Europe
Swim in the warm Caribbean
Many unusual possibilities
No Charge tor Our Services
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
NgddaWbJ'n RwdeJwrdguwri pJrFei
Call EX. 1-1040
\ IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT TO §
f CANDIDATES FOR BACCALAUREATE f 
I AND ADVANCED DEGREES \
\ \
\ DcD.9MV.Gc fV Dd'VdDDMH \
\ W!*HV.VH9H \
“ bG9!DbG9V.VGdH ‘
| Technical representatives ;
of the MITRE Corporation t
will be conducting interviews ;
on campus ;
April 4, 1962 \
g MITRE now has openings for talented men who want to
work in the challenging new field of system engineering ... a *
set of skills defined in only the most recent reference books, ^
£ With MITRE, system engineering embraces such electronic £
£ command and control systems as the NORAD Intelligence g
£ Function and the manned bomber defense, SAGE. *5 ^The work is vital. Time for decision in aerospace opera- £
£ tions has been compressed intolerably. Today's military * 
£ leaders must have help in commanding forces of awesome £ 
£ strength. They need great quantities of information elec- # 
% ironically transmitted, processed and displayed. This is the g 
£ challenge of command and control.. . the work of the men at 0 
$ MITRE. . i
Formed under the sponsorship of the Massachusetts £ 
Institute of Technology, MITRE is a growing engineering £
‘ research corporation with 1,600 employees, over 600 of which g 
comprise the technical staff. It serves as technical advisor to # 
£ the U. S. Air Force and other government agencies and en- # 
£ gages in system design, conceptual planning, evaluation of £ 
electronic systems and research development. i
Appointments will be made principally in the Suburban £ 
£ Boston area. Openings are also available at facilities in * 
£ Washington, D. C. and Colorado Springs, Colo. Brochures % 
£ describing the activities of The MITRE Corporation are # 
£ available on request at the placement office. Z
5 ARRANGE FOR AN INTERVIEW \
THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE. 5
f ¦¦¦_______ {f MITRE I
I Iiujuimj ;
^ P.O. Box #208 - Bedford, Massachusetts ^
Page 8 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. April 4, 1962
Mr. William O. Philbrook, Pro-
HOUR HFTER-SME UfflOILSIR"
the 
away and
ftACTVAUV. roil DON'T NCC.0 A VAltT TO APPRECIATS MCNNCN SKIN BRACCJL AU. rOU NCCO li A FACl I
Philbrook 
Receives 
Herty Award
Pianists Gaal, Prattis Awarded 
Substantial Music Scholarships
fessor of Metallurgical Engineer­
ing at Tech, has been named by 
The Metallurgical Society of AIME 
the first recipient of the Charles H. 
Herty, Jr. Memorial Award, re­
cently established by its National 
Open Hearth Steel Committee.
Formal presentation will take 
place April 9 at the Sheraton-Cad- 
illac Hotel, Detroit, Michigan, at 
the opening session of the Forty- 
fifth National Open Hearth Steel 
Conference. The event is expected 
Coke Oven, and Raw Materials 
Coference. The event is expected 
to draw an attendance of 2,000, in­
cluding many from countries 
abroad.
The new Award goes to Mr. 
Philbrook for his outstanding pa­
per, “Process Kinetics of Basic 
Oxygen Steelmaking,” published 
in the Proceedings of the 1961 Na­
tional Open Hearth Steel Confer­
ence.
Mr. Philbrook, who received his 
B.S., with honors, at the University 
of Chicago, has written or been 
the co-author of numerous pub­
lished technical works on the phy­
sical chemistry of steelmaking. His 
contributions in that field have 
been recognized oy several dis- 1 
tinguished awards.
The Metallurgical Society is a j 
constituent organization of the | 
American Institute of Mining, Me- \ 
tallurgical. and Petroleum Engin­
eers.
Two students in the department 
of music, College of Fine Arts, 
at Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, have been awarded $1200 
scholarships to continue study 
next year.
The students, Patricia Prattis, a 
senior in the department and Lor­
raine Gaal, a junior, are both 
residents of Pittsburgh. Miss 
Frattis won the Enola M. Lewis 
Scholarship in an all girl com­
petition which is open to perform­
ers of any age. She is a pianist. 
Miss Gaal won the Tuesday Mu* 
sical Club’s Scholarship in the 
competition which is open to male
or female musicians, equivalent 
to at least a senior in high school 
but not over 21. She is also a 
pianist. Both awards are admin­
istered by the Tuesday Musical 
Club and are based on competi­
tive auditions.
Miss Prattis is a 1958 graduate 
of Westinghouse High School. She 
resides, with her parents, Mr, and 
Mrs. P. L. Prattis, at 1311 Grotto 
St., Pittsburgh 6, Pa.
Miss Gaal is a 1959 graduate of 
Evans City High School. She and 
her mother, Mrs. Mernes Gaal, 
reside at 166 N. Dithridge St., 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
CLASSIFIED
PROFESSIONAL TYPING — HA 
1-1456. On electric typewriter, j 
reasonable rates. Themes, Theses, j 
Manuscripts, Term Papers, Ap­
plications, etc. Punctuation and 
spelling errors corrected.
Goldenfeld's Market
414 SOUTH CRAIG ST.
The most complete Self Serve store
LerdaP Groceries, Frozen Food, Butter, Eggs, Cheese,
and also a complete line of General Merchandise with 
personal, courteous service, home-like atmosphere.
Special discounts for fraternities 
and large parties

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 28, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 9Wednesday, April 4, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 9
counselors take part during Freshman Camp.Informal discussion groups such as this one last 
year are among the many activities in which
Freshman Camp Councilors Chosen
Student Govt. Enforces 
Old Rules, New Methods
[continued from page 1] 
relaxed atmosphere found at 
camp.
Freshman Camp is doubly valu­
able in that it provides excellent 
leadership training for the coun­
selors and is unique in that it 
affords an opportunity for stu­
dents and faculty to work together 
on equal footing toward a com­
mon goal. That camp is a suc­
cessful program is evidenced by 
the large number of students ap­
plying for positions as counselors 
this year.
The camp program is adminis­
tered by the executive staff which
is composed of eight students and 
four faculty members and is self- 
supporting in that all expenses are 
covered by the nominal fee 
charged the attending freshmen. 
This year’s staff is composed of 
Tom Ference, Camp Chairman, 
Jane Scott, Associate Chairman, 
Fran Davis, Tom Pyke, John Ber- 
tucci, Kathy Ross, Carol Haber, 
Chip McKnight, Dean Milligan, 
Dean Swank, Dr. Struck and Dr. 
Morgani The staff is responsible 
f('i the "choice of the student coun­
selors and of the faculty mem­
bers who will attend Camio.
The counselors are:
Marty Ackermann, Mark Appel- 
baum, Hedda Bluestone, Bob 
Caulk, Phil Cohen, Phyllis Cohen, 
Sam Cupps, Dave Easley, Dennis 
Gary, Marny Gilboy, Fred Got- 
temoeller, Dorothy Graves, Nancy 
Harvey, Ev Janssen, Liz Kim, Su­
zanne Klieman, Larry Lang, Gary 
Lindstrom, Ken Matejka, Chuck 
1 Oberdorf, Truman Parkinson, Ed 
Peay, Ben Porter, Marve Reich, 
j Linda Schindelheim, Amy Slotnik, 
Bib Stocking, Judy Suhay, Linda 
Trego, Andrea Vidakovic, Tony 
: Williams, Ellie Wiseman, Stu 
; Wood.
CAREERS IN ENERGY
With
HUMBLE
OIL & REFINING COMPANY
America’s Leading Energy Company
MONDAY, APRIL 9th 
HUMBLE PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS TO INTERVIEW
CHEMICAL
CIVIL
ELECTRICAL
• MECHANICAL
• PETROLEUM
• ALL OTHER
ENGINEERS
INTERESTED IN DISCUSSING PROFESSIONAL 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN OIL AND GAS 
PRODUCTION AND NATURAL GAS PROCESSING
Contact College Placement Officer for Appointment
The activities committee of Stu­
dent Congress formulates policy 
concerning all student organiza­
tions. It also formulates policy 
with regard to activities keys and 
awards.
This year, in an attempt to es­
tablish better communication be­
tween Student Government and 
student organizations, the activi­
ties committee is strictly enforc­
ing controls which long ago be­
came lax. This laxity has resulted 
in a completely uninformed Stu­
dent Government. Government 
lacks knowledge of which organ­
izations are recognized and which 
are not. By enforcing old rules 
and instituting new methods, Gov­
ernment hopes to recover this lost 
information and to keep tighter 
controls on the finances for which 
it is responsible.
The activities committee has 
drafted a new and more informa­
tive organization report, which all 
organizations are required to sub­
mit. Any organization which does 
not submit this report will not re­
ceive recognition from Student 
Government, and therefore will 
not be permitted to operate on the 
campus. The activities committee 
has also suggested that each or­
ganization appoint a non-voting
Student Congress representative, 
who will assure good communica­
tion with Student Congress.
The activities committee is es­
pecially interested in the progress 
of new student organizations, and 
has emphasized the importance of 
student organization recognition 
procedure. The activities commit­
tee closely examines petitioning 
organizations on the basis of du­
plication, faculty or departmental 
support, intellectual or cultural 
potential, time required from 
members, and effect on public re­
lations of the school. The recog­
nition procedure is designed to 
enable new organizations to pros­
per, as well as to eliminate unde­
sirable organizations.
Regarding activities awards, the 
activities committee continuously 
re-evaluates the points assigned to 
each activity. These awards are 
a measure of the success of all 
student organizations, and are a 
means of honoring those individ­
uals who have contributed to the 
functions of student organizations.
The activities committee invites 
the participation of all interested 
students. There are many inter­
esting facets involved in the work, 
and many different talents are 
needed.
Clevife's GRADUATE ENGINEERING 
PROGRAM leads to excellent
assignments in...
• Component Engineering
• Process Control Engineering
• Quality Control and Reliability
• Instrumentation and Customer 
Application
As one of the world’s leading suppliers of the fabulous 
semiconductor devices so vital to the age of automatic 
computers and space flights, Clevite is offering to prop- 
erly qualified graduate engineers, unique, varied and 
gratifying career opportunities in research and develop­
ment.
To qualified engineers who elect to join the Clevite 
Transistor team, the firm offers a variety of in-plant 
training courses leading to key posts in research, de­
velopment, application and sales.
If your interest is in Physics. Electronic Engineering, 
Chemical Engineering, Metallurgy or Mechanical En­
gineering. and you would like to explore a career 
opportunity with Clevite, please write to W. E. Cun­
ningham, Engineering Placement Director, and in­
clude your official grade transcript. All inquiries will 
be promptly acknowledged.
-ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS —
Our representative will be on campus 
April 11. Your placement office 
will provide the details
CTCLEVITE TRANSISTOR
200 Smith St. Waltham 54, Mai
Ah Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page Id — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 4, 1962
Urban Renewal Project 
Useful And Attractive
fcontinued from page 1] 
veloper to continue as the long­
term owner.
The corporation will concern 
itself only with the areas around 
the various institutions and not 
with the expansion programs of 
the institutions themselves, which 
will continue to progress on an 
individual basis within the scope 
defined by the Oakland Master 
Plan.
Oakland Corporation will at­
tempt to provide residential facili­
ties at reasonable prices and rent­
als for persons of varied income 
levels who are studying, working, 
living permanently, or residing 
temporarily in the area. This 
would include homes and apart­
ments for married or graduate 
students, faculty and research per­
sonnel, doctors, nurses, and all 
other persons employed by or do­
ing business with the various edu­
cational, cultural, civic, religious, 
and medical organizations in 
Oakland.
Approximately $25-million of 
thè projected $250-million would 
be spent to acquire land, $24- 
million to build office and com­
mercial space, $95-million for 
housing, and S7.5-million for 
parking facilities. The balance 
would be spent for as yet unde­
termined investments, but perhaps 
including the development of an 
industrial research park.
The industrial research park 
was not a part of the Oakland 
Master Plan. It is a long-t e r m 
concept introduced by the found­
ers of the corporation. They have 
recommended that it be placed on 
a site continguous with the Oak­
land district, since the location of
a major cultural-educational cen­
ter is believed to be the strong­
est single inducement to the busi­
nesses which establish research 
! plants.
j Such a park would not only 
provide highly desirable sites in 
: an attractive setting for research 
; laboratories, but in many cases 
would be the location for en- 
; tirely new light industries grow­
ing out of the developments of 
! these laboratories. Consequently, 
j it could become a major generator 
of diversified industries and thou- 
| sands of new jobs for the Pitts­
burgh area.
! However, this phase of the 
corporation’s effort is contingent 
| upon acceptance of the idea by 
city planners and upon the de­
velopment of a feasible plan for 
land use, rehousing, and for co­
ordination with other renewal 
programs.
Oakland Corporation will be 
| capitalized for $5-million. Half 
will be in voting stock held only 
by the institutions and founda­
tions located in Pittsburgh, there­
by insuring local control. The 
other half, in the form of con­
vertible debentures, will be own­
ed by the corporate lenders and
CUlTUtAl-ZOUCATlONAL-MEmCAL 
CIVIC AND SOCIAL 
RESIDENTIAL 
COMMERCIAL 
PUBLIC PARK
-bG'DDQOfbDdH !fH3w 
- b9’ bDM.*¦ .fccD'D (D bud9D^VuMD HOSPITAL
® VETERANS HOSPITAL 
(§) UNIV. OF PITTSBURGH 
<D MELLOW INSTITUTE 
© EVE £ EAR HOSPITAL <§) ST. PAUL'S CATHEPRAL(D PRESET. UNIVERSITY ^CARN © CARNE6IE INSTITUTE 
© CHILDRENS HOSPITAL E GISTUOFU INST. CH LUG^TCYCO1
Land use for the proposed redeveloped Oakland Area which includes Tech
investors, and it will be non-vot­
ing.
The firm of Harrison and Abra-
movitz of New York will act as 
over-all architectural planners, 
and Julian H. Levi, executive di­
rector of the South East Chicago 
Commission, will serve as urban 
renewal consultant.
Paoa
9
Peace
Movement
Supported
By Alice Fry
Most people agree that wars is 
ugly, and hope for a world of 
peace. The movement for peace 
for many years has been the ac­
tive concern of relatively few in­
dividuals. However, in the last 
few years, more people have be­
come aware and have begun to 
wonder what can be done. The 
threat of nuclear annihilation has 
given the problems of war and 
peace a new dimension. More or­
ganizations are being formed: 
more articles are being written to' 
deal with the problems of peace 
in the world.
The intellectual ferver is be­
coming more intense. The “Turn 
Toward Peace” demonstration in 
Washington, D.C. in February \ 
brought together 8,000 students ! 
from all over the country with ; 
the conviction that a better, more 
peaceful way of solving the •; 
world’s problems must be found.; 
Those students from CIT who 
went to Washington are con- ! 
cerned with keeping this aware- , 
ness alive and growing at Tech.
Tuesday afternoons at 4:30 there j 
are informal discussion sessions j 
held to gain information as ob- ; 
jeetively as possible about all 
sides of the issues of peace, dis- j 
armament, world affairs, and ‘ 
American ideals, through speak- j 
ers, movies, literature, and heated 
arguments. On alternate Sunday 1 
ev enings at 7:30 the Student Peace 
Union meets. The SPU is a na- ; 
tional organization of young peo- : 
pie who believe that “the mili- | 
iaristic approach to world prob­
lems is no longer useful or pos­
sible and that a new and crea- : 
tive means must be found for j 
achieving a free and peaceful so-
All students on campus who | 
feel an interest and concern with 
these issues can participate in j 
these activities. Bulletin board 
notices tive «»ore information. I
pne JerauwI du lgwc dne anrme of dne 
lbdbJeTlbdbJe krJas dnrd gaP Oh kJerdB
gw' mrwUmrce muwauuwa gw irWuJrB
duJh wgwc dbwweias FuJc LuduJ 
Eummrwh akgewdgada rwc ew'gweeJa 
rJe rWie du dead dne ellekda ul reJuB
chwrmgk ceag'w uw dne lbei ekuwumhs 
mraagw' rWgigdh rwc adrWgigdh ul mraU • 
aew'eJ krJaP
•pneh bae %Uakrie mucei krJa rwc 
Wiuw 'riea mrad dnem bm du 267 mmn 
Tdu agmbirde 100Ummn krJ ameecaP 
Rw rccgdguw du rwrihzgw' anrmea wgdn 
rw ehe du Jecbkgw' rgJ cJr's ubJ 
akgewdgada rwc ew'gweeJa rJe adbchB
gw' merwa ul gmmJuFgw' Fengkie kuwB
dJui dnJub'n mJumeJ reJuchwrmgk 
ceag'wP
fxmeJgmewdri mJujekda igke dnga rJe 
neimgw' mrFe dne wrh luJ mrjuJ 
rcFrwkea gw dumuJJuw’a krJa P P P 
rcFrwkea wngkn kubic WJgw' eFew 
WeddeJ lbei ekuwumhs WeddeJ meJluJmB
rwke wgdn ieaa ew'gwe elluJd rwc 
arleJ cJgFgw' rd ng'neJ kJbgagw' 
ameecaP pnga ga jbad uwe muJe 
exrmmie ul nuw Ford is gaining 
leadership through scientific re­
search and engineering.
MOTOR COMPANY
pne tmeJgkrw Murcs DerJWuJws Lgkngligw
PHOQUCTS FOR THf AMERICAN ROAO • THf FARM 
• INDUSTRY * AMO THI AOt OF «(»ACS

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April 4, 1003 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 11
C rw eFew kuiceJ wrJ? a nud wrJ 
C rw RwcbadJgri 
rwc dJrce kuwdead
D lrke uwe?
? mbii ubd uwe ul hubJ uww?
Warner Hosts Educator’s Luncheon; 
Foster And Trent Main Speakers
President J. C. Warner served 
as chairman and host of a lunch­
eon for the 1962 National Convo­
cation of presidents of the 32 
United Negro Colleges, March 31.
The educators’ luncheon was 
one of the many events of the 1962 
United Negro College Convocation 
held in Pittsburgh March 29 to 
April 1. The main speaker for the 
luncheon was Dr. Luther H. Fos­
ter, president, Tuskegee Institute 
and president of the United Ne­
gro College Fund, Inc. (UNCF). 
William J. Trent, Jr., executive 
director of the UNCF introduced 
the presidents of the participating 
colleges. Representatives from all 
district colleges and universities 
were also guests at the luncheon.
Since 1950, the UNC Convoca­
tion has been held annually in a 
different city, the purpose being to 
stimulate and broaden interest in 
the program of the member col­
leges and to enable the Convoca­
tion communities to become bet­
ter acquainted with the presidents 
and with some of the achieve­
ments of the colleges and their 
graduates.
Dr? Foster received his B.S. de­
gree from both Virginia State Col­
lege and Hampton Institute. He 
received his M.B.A. from Harvard 
University and his Ph.D. from the 
University of Chicago. He has re­
ceived honorary degrees from Ad­
ams State College, the University 
of Liberis, and Virginia State Col­
lege, and in 1958 was the recipient 
of the Star of Africa. Prior to be- 
president at Tuskegee In­
stitute, Dr. Foster served for 
twelve years as business manager 
at the same college.
Mr. Trent received his B.A. from 
Livingstone College and his M.B.A. 
from the University of Pennsyl­
vania. In 1944, he was named thé
first executive dii'ector of UNCF. 
Prior to that, he had served on the 
faculties of Bennett College and 
Livingstone College. For one year 
he was Advisor on Negro Affairs 
to Secretary of the Interior, Har­
old L. Ickes, and later was Race 
Relations Officer for the Federal 
Works Agency.
Padua Professor Visiting Lecturer
PETE SEEGÂR
Sings
April 16 - YMWHA
South Bellefield 
Seats $3.00, $2.50, $2.00. SI.50
Tickets at Carnegie Tech 
Book Store
Nicolo Dalaporta, professor of 
physics at the University of Pa­
dua, Italy, has been appointed a 
visiting professor in the physics 
department. Professor Dalaporta 
will serve on the Tech faculty for 
the remainder of the academic 
year.
Professor Dallaporta has been 
on the faculty at the University 
of Padua since 1942. From 1942 
to 1947 he served as an assistant
professor, and since 1947 has been 
a professor.
During his stay at Carnegie 
' Tech, Professor Dallaporta will 
I deliver a special series of lec- 
; tures on “Elementary °article 
Physics,” which will be held on 
1 Mondays, Wednesdays, ai:d Fri- 
! days at 9:30 a.m. in -Room A-220, 
Engineering Hall, on the campus.
The lecture series is already un­
derway, and anyone interested is 
invited to attend.
LET VITAIIS® KEEP YOUR HAIR NEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE!
Keem dne ugi gw dne krwP Rw hubJ nrgJs bae Vgdriga wgdn VU7®s dne 
'Jeraeieaa 'Juumgw' cgakuFeJhP Fg'nda emWrJJraagw' crwcJblls 
mJeFewda cJhweaaTkeema hubJ nrgJ werd rii crh wgdnubd 'JeraeP
COPYRIGHT <& 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA COLA ANO COKC A*£ *£G<ST£*EO T#ADÉMA«K»
L&M gives you 
MORE BODY
in the blend, 
MORE FLAVOR
in the smoke, 
MORE TASTE
through the filter. 
It's the rich-flavor 
leaf that does it!
X» cosvaoi swam f moon 
ewaxii««
CILTIRS
i item t wvii» TO8WC0 to
HERE’S HOW MEN 
AND WOMEN AT 
56 COLLEGES VOTED,
%Zo*'“%89TAL0 jwu* 
%zr“%lïT asmbrj4
%9o*"'%2oPPP
%frr*%8r
%ir"%w"’"“ woo
leondleo—’ JBMJOIJ0
%ir**%sr" JBM japioa
N3WOM N3W
Bottled under authority of 
Tt*»*Coca-Cola Company byQl'AKER STATE COCOA-COl.A 
BOTTLING COMPANY Pittsburgh, F*.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 1? — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. April 4, 1962
UMOC
IS
COMING
Unless the present situation 
changes radically, the squad will 
be one of the finest ever to repre­
sent Tech. Only one letterman 
was lost through graduation, and 
a solid core of experienced junior 
and sophomore veterans are back 
Among the returning lettermen 
are Dennis Gary, Tom Bednarz, 
Mike Campbell, Jim Sharkey, 
Andy Niedra, Tom Terpack, Jon 
Borofsky, and Joe Thomas. Fresh­
men Bob Biggart and Paul Fach-
Sports Shorts 
On Tech Teams
Softball schedules and league 
pairings were released by the In­
tramural office Tuesday, April 3.
Playoffs of the soccer games not 
completed last fall will be com­
pleted this week, depending on 
the erection of goals. The intra­
mural office will make the official 
announcement regarding the re­
sumption of games.
All persons wishing to umpire 
intramural softball games should 
sign up on the list posted on the 
intramural bulletin board in the 
gym.
The intramural Most Valuable 
Player in basketball, along with 
the school all-star squads, will be 
selected on Wednesday, April 4.
Eight returning lettermen and 
several bright freshman prospects 
will form the core of this year's 
Tartan track team.
The team will be captained by 
distance-man Mike Campbell and 
weight-man Jon Borofsky. Forty- 
three candidates are now practic­
ing and hope to make the squad.
In an interview with Coach Bill 
Hinchberger, a former track man 
at the University of Pittsburgh, he 
was guardedly optimistic, an out­
look that was shared by the team 
itself. ‘"We should be much im­
proved over last year, and be 
right in there competing for the 
West Penn Conference champion­
ship,” said Coach Hinchberger.
Particularly strong for Tech this 
year will be the sprints, half mile, 
mile, and two mile run, and pole 
vault. Letterman Dennis Gary, a 
10.0 man in the 100 and 21.7 in 
the 220, along with freshmen 
Henry Werronen and Jim Black 
form a potent corps of sprinters. 
Half-miler Andy Neidra should 
place well in all meets. Cross­
country runners Mike Campbell, 
and Tom Bednarz along with Paul 
Fackler and Ed Barvick will 
shoulder the distance responsibili­
ties. Freshman Tony Williams, a 
12’ 6” vaulter in high school is 
counted on to capture some points. 
The weight events will have co­
captain Jon Borofsky leading the 
way.
Although there are no current 
Tech record holders among the 
squad, Dennis Gary is thought to 
have a good chance to break Tech 
records in the 100 and 220. Andy 
Neidra is a candidate for a record 
breaking performance in the 880.
Tech will open its track season 
on April 7 in a dual meet with 
Jeannette on the Tech oval at 
1:30 p.m. Five more dual meets 
will follow, and the season will 
end on May 19 with the W.P.I.A.C. 
meet. Tech will act as host to the 
meet.
Indications are that at least 
four school records will be broken 
this year. Dennis Gary in the 
220, Andy Niedra in the 880, and 
Mike Campbell in the 2 mile are 
all potential record breakers. Al­
though a fourth man has yet to be 
added to the mile relay team of 
Niedra, Gary, and Terpack, the 
final quartet is also a probable 
record breaker.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
What makes Lucky Strike the favorite regular cigarette of college smokers? Fine-tobacco 
taste. It’s a great taste to start with, and it spoils you for other cigarettes. Thatfs why Lucky 
smokers stay Lucky smokers. So, get with the taste you’ll want to stay with. Get Lucky today,
©arc*. Product of </& J^n&ueitn if our middle namt
Track Team Scampers On New Field Oval
The CIT ti’ack team will make 
its initial appearance of the season 
when it meets the Jeannette Har­
riers this Saturday at 1:30 on the 
Tech Field Oval. This will be the 
first meet ever held on the new 
track, completed last summer.
ler also figure to move into the 
foreground.
Tech will be looking for re­
venge against Jeannette, who beat 
the Tartans last year by % of a 
point, 65% to 65%. After Jean­
nette, the thinclads take on St.
Francis, Waynesburg, and W&J 
before Easter vacation. These 
three meets should provide little 
opposition to Tech, since both 
Waynesburg and W&J were wal­
loped by Tech last year, and St. 
Francis is notorious for its weak 
track teams.
