Minern
The Newspaper of Carnegie-MeHon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 8, November 2, 1982.
Students protest tuition
*________p______„ ___________________________ -........._photoby Rhoda Funk
An estimated 500 students gathered in front of Warner Hall Friday to protest a 19% increase in tuition. The crowd caught the attention of WTAE, KDKA, WPXi, and The Pittsburgh Press.
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL and 
MICHAEL HEANEY
On Friday afternoon, approximately 500 
students gathered on the step>s erf Warner 
Hall to rally against the 19% increase in 
tuition for the 1983-84 school year.
The crowd, led by student government 
president Nate Solano and accompanied by 
guitarists Sam Cohen and Pat Dominguez, 
sang about the tuition increases to the tunes 
of “Blowing in the Wind” and “Where 
Have All the Flowers Gone.” The students, 
many carrying signs, periodically broke out 
in chant, including “We’re broke,” and “We
want Dick.”
A refreshment table was set up on the 
patio erf Warner Hall with a sign saying 
“compliments of the president.” During the 
rally, a student tore the sign in half and 
threw it to the crowd. When acting dean of 
student affairs Brad Walter spoke to the stu­
dents, people from the crowd pelted him 
and Warner Hall with cookies, some shout­
ing, “Let them eat cookies!”
Ihe rally should make the administra­
tion think twice about raising tuition next 
year, said Solano. “It’s a 19% increase with a 
654% inflation rate at the most. It’s just not
justifiable,” he said.
Student senator Tom McCarthy 
explained that the rally was a chance for 
students to become emotionally involved in 
the tuition issue. According to McCarthy, 
the real issue is that students are demanding 
more information on where the tuition 
money is going. “If we know what those 
actual figures are, we could say, ‘no, we 
don’t want this, we don’t want that, and 
perhaps a few dollars could be taken off,” 
said McCarthy.
McCarthy invited President Richard 
Cyert to speak at the rally, but Cyert
Robots will labor to make life easier
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffwriter
Robots will eventually take overall rou­
tine, physical labor,” said Dan Berg, provost 
°f science and technology. According to 
Berg, robots will be able to work longer 
hours than people and will cost less.
People will not be replaced by robots, said 
Berg, but will be “given jobs of a different 
nature.” The situation, he said, is compara­
ble to the outset of industrialism, where
machines didn’t replace people, but people 
evolved from farmers to factory workers.
Berg described the job of low paid 
workers in the lighting industry, whose only 
task is to sit and examine the procession of 
filaments and to remove the defective ones. 
The same job, he said, could be accomp- 
plished by a robot equipped with a TV camer- 
atype device. Information would go into its 
artificial intelligence, which would recog­
nize the filament as good or bad.Students drive Escort
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter 
How would you like to be escorted home 
^ student drivers? Well, CMU students 
again have this chance. According to Bob 
I'adzen, head of Security, student drivers 
have replaced three regular escort drivers in 
'^er to supplement the work-study 
of
Up until this year escort has been totally 
student run. However, during finals and 
midterm weeks, students had a difficult time 
driving. Therefore, this year, the escort driv­
ers hired were not students, cutting down on 
the number of work-study jobs.
It was decided to again employ students 
but mix them with tegular drivers. Alto­
gether there are six drivers.
Berg noted that while it is difficult to 
predict the effects of increased automation, 
the political system moves slowly enough to 
give people the time to try to anticipate them 
and to “implement sensible policies.” Berg 
added that he expects a shortage of labor in 
the future, due to the declining number of 18 
year olds.
Two programs, according to Berg, are in 
the works in Robotics. The first, named the 
Benjamin Franklin program, is a proposal 
for creating and preserving high technology 
jobs in Pennsylvania. Most erf these jobs will 
involve computers and will encompass such 
areas as maintenance, construction of com­
ponents and programming. CMU and Pitt 
will joindy submit this proposal next 
month, to receive funding of $250,000 from 
the state. The proposal is headed by Dwight 
Sangrey, head of the Department erf Civil 
Engineering, with support from faculty of
H&SS, MCS, GSIA, and SUPA.
MinernThN in wsph ao
declined, saying he did not want to talk at a 
“show.” Cyert explained that he was busy 
with appointments during the rally, and 
that he would answer any questions about 
tuition at the forum to be held November 11.
“I see nothing wrong with students gath­
ering,” said Cyert, adding that the rally is 
not likely to affect the price erf tuition. “You 
can’t let things like that affect decisions,” he 
said.
Cyert denied that students are withheld 
information on where tuition money is 
going. Anyone is free to look at the financial 
statements of the university, he said, and he 
pointed out that only three students 
attended a recent forum on tuition. The 
announcement of the forum was made the 
MinernThN in wsph af
In This Issue:
Editorial
Priorities.......................................page 2
News
VanHouweling/Computers .... page 12 
Tuition Rally...............................page 13
Features
Profile: Anne Witchner............page 15
Alcoholism and Doctors............page 15
Entertainment
Poet R. Wallace reads ................page 23
LP review: Billy Joel................page 26
Sports
CMU upset 14-7..........................page 27
Hoop practice begins................page 27
hike

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Carnegie-Mellon: Press comes before students
“Ravings, The Tartan is printing ravings!” 
A lot of you students thought we blew the 
computing issue out of proportion. A lot of 
you thought we were “too hard on the 
administration.”
But we must ask you: How did you find out 
about this issue? Was it in a forum? A letter to 
your parents? Perhaps it was on the eleven 
o’clock news?
Surprise.
We have to ask the gendemen on the sixth 
floor of Warner why they left the reporting of a 
major decision like this one — one that will 
involve the reputation of the university — to 
the competitive outside press.
You know the press: they are often inaccu­
rate, like to have scoops, and are constandy 
“blowing things out of proportion.”
The fact is, no final decisions have been 
made on the implementation “deployment 
phase” of CMU’s and IBM’s venture into the 
land of personal computers for every student. 
But very precise planning has already been 
done — down to sketching how a personal 
computer will look in a dorm room.
Phase one of the contract is the only thing 
that is definite. This phase stipulates that 
CMU and IBM will jointly staff and manage 
an Information Technology Center — a real 
nice name for a research lab. The lab will 
develop new software based on software 
already develped by CMU’s computer science 
department.
The deal is a good one for CMU. President
Cyert and Provost Van Horn are very good 
businessmen. CMU houses the center (lab) and 
manintains the building. IBM does and pays 
for just about everything else — they pay over 
100% of the costs involved.
The Tartan is not upset with this contract, 
but we are upset with the apparent insensitiv­
ity of the president in releasing this 
information.
Many press reports and TV newscasts car­
ried comments from Cyert like, “In 1991, we 
expect to have about 7,500 personal worksta­
tions, all interconnected.” Stating his wishes 
along with concrete information about the 
actual contract, Cyert implied that the build­
ing/buying of thousands of workstations was 
also being contracted.
Much of the press thought and reported that 
CMU was requiring its students to buy com­
puters. This is not so, of course, but what did 
Warner Hall expect? An accurate story? From 
the press?
Come on guys, why was the press told before 
the students? You wouldn’t be able to call 
yourselves-a university without us. We need 
your business know-how and your brilliant 
foresight^ but ^ou need our tuition, and our 
little bodies to get grants.
What would have been so hard about telling 
us and our parents first, with a simply defined 
letter? If you’re going to brag about future 
plans, don’t do it at the expense of students’ 
peace of mind. Let us know your real plans.
You’re making us students feel unimportant 
in our own university.
This afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room a forum will take place which will 
answer questions about this whole issue. If you 
students have a question: go. If you don’t 
know enough to have a question: go.
The time to voice your opinion on what 
deployment should be — that is, whether art 
majors should be required to buy a personal 
computer, whether the computers should be in 
clusters or in the dorm rooms, whether 
student-teacher interactions will be altered — 
is now. Care while the administration is plan­
ning it, not three years from now when they are 
signing a “phase two” contract.
This year we are the students, but in a few 
more we will be the alumni. To many of us, it 
is important that CMU not lose its reputation 
in the fine arts and humanities — that our 
university not turn into a technological trade 
school. It is important that curriculum content 
not be secondary to implementation, and sub­
ject matter less important than method (no 
wonder we’re not phi beta kappa).
If you’re getting a degree that says 
“Carnegie-Mellon University,” then you 
should care what it will be worth in five, ten 
and twenty-five years.
The Tartan will attempt to keep CMU 
informed on this on-going issue as best we can 
— even though we are press. We appreciate 
any and all opinion ... brush you teeth, make 
your bed, clean your terminal.
Nate comments on the rally: Incredible!
The rally was simply incredible. I cannot 
thank those who attended enough. Special 
thanks go to Sam Cohen and Patrick 
Dominguez who provided great entertain- 
Iment. I salute the Drama 
Department for canceling fresh- 
Iman classes in order for those 
Istudents to attend. Dean Cox, as
usual, came through for the students (she 
arranged for our extension cords). Finally, 
those students who helped us to clean up the 
cookies came in above and beyond the call of 
studentship (studentdom?).
To put it blundy, I think the administra­
tion got the point. It’s been a while since 
they’ve had to deal with anything of this
nature and I don’t think that they can help 
but ponder our demonstration. If this has no 
effect on next year’s tuition, I honesdy 
believe that they will think twice before 
attempting an outrage such as this again. 
They cannot help but remember the mob 
screaming “Warner Hall must Bum!” Once 
again I must praise those persons who
Debating The Tartan's coherency
By Christopher Johnston
So, are you happy?
Now that we students have protested per­
sonal computers outside erf the press confer­
ence in which President Cyert announced 
the deal with IBM, and pelted 
Warner Hall with cookies in 
defiance of next years 19% tui­
tion increase, (Cyert’s lucky he 
didn’t give the naughty li’l students milk to 
drink with their cookies), what more could 
we want? How about a newspaper that 
prints what we want to hear?
One way to avoid libel, but to still present 
a biased point of view, is to present only one 
side of an issue. I think an example erf this 
would be the cover story of last week’s Tar­
tan, written by Monica Ce’lio.
The story headline read, “Damn the Stu­
dents, Full Speed Ahead.” That headline in 
itself, since it was quoted from a placard 
carried by a student who obviously favored 
one side of the personal computing issue, 
only presents an opinion, not a title portend­
ing an objective news story.
The story in itself didn’t belittle Cyert. It 
merely gave the impression of an opinion 
column and not a straight news story. You’ll 
notice that I have a little “opinion” box in 
the upper left hand comer of this text and 
don’t try to pass off my platitudes as news. 
For instance, in the lead paragraph the 
author mentions that Cyert made his
while “students protested.” How many stu­
dents protested? What faction of the student 
body did they represent? Is there a possibility 
of them having any ulterior motives? We 
never find out.
As a matter of fact, of the few students that 
protested outside of the press conference, 
(there was usually less than 10 and no more 
than 25), most of them were Student Sena­
tors. The rest were made up of rabble rous­
ing ruffians like myself.
The reason we made a dissonant nuisance 
of ourselves was because we felt that students 
weren’t being fairly represented and 
shouldn’t be coerced into doing something 
with which they may disagree, and the 
junior-grade politicians were being remar­
kably docile about the situation.
As a matter of fact, Laura Sabadell, the 
person who controls your activities fee and 
who wrote the “outraged” letter to the editor 
last week, commented that we should shut 
up. Naturally we screamed one of our 
chants several decibels louder into her face. 
At least we didn’t feign politeness in the face 
of what we saw as oppressive.
What motives did these other “radical” 
students have? Since a majority of them were 
senators, only one idea comes into my mind. 
It seems to me that Student Senate is trying 
to justify its existence by using the furor of 
computers and tuition increases. As a result, 
it has become quite willing to act as a pro­
peons will begin to follow them and recog­
nize them as your leaders.
Another distortion of facts in the article 
seems to have occurred in the Cyert quote 
about dispersing the “goofball” students. 
Perhaps Cyert should have been given a 
chance to qualify his remark, or the author 
should have at least collected some of the 
annoying student quotes about Cyert. For 
instance, one of the chants that my friends 
and myself were shouting was, “Cyert gets 
the graft, students get the shaft!,” cute huh? 
It could also could be considered quite offen­
sive to Cyert, but nobody ever quoted us. It 
seems strange that nobody heard four peo­
ple shouting at the top erf their lungs, but 
two students manage to overhear a passing 
statement by one man.
I don’t agree with Cyert or his computer 
MinernThN in wsph C
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Letters-to-the-Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for irnficntion. Names will be withheld upon
Ththe right
attended the rally. There is a campus life 
outside of class and I think we’ve established 
that.
As usual I will be in the office from 3:00 to 
5:00 p.m. on Wednesday and 7:00 to 9:00 
p.m. on Thursday. I can usually be reached 
at 687-6404. - .
7
Nate Solano is a junior in AMS and is 
president of the student government.
Thebtai.
Editor-in-Chief.................................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor...........................Vince Guinto
Business Manager..........................Louise Crocoll
News Editor...................................Monica Gellio
Features Editor................................ Geof Becker
Entertainment Editor.....................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor..................... John S til well
Contributing Editor.....................Gregg Bossier
Art Director.....................................Diane Thodos
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager....................................Bonnie Topf
Typesetting Manager.......................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Associate Photo Editor.....................Gene Yonish
Asst. Features Editor...............Pauline Kramer
Asst. Ent. Editor..........:..............John Cantine
Asst. Sports Editor.........................Ric Medrow'
Asst Business Mgr....................Kathleen Wasch
Production Staff: Mary Ayjian, Peter Bain, 
Margaret Eissler, Andrew Ghali, Ross Serin, Jean 
Siegel, Carsten Thode, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright © 1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial OfhcCK 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 152$ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All fights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters
EEs complain of bias
Editor
Rest assured that each week we Electrical 
Engineering grad students eagerly await the 
new issue of The Tartan. If nothing else, an 
occasional issue serves to remind us that 
there are people in the world who write 
more poorly than engineers. Your October
26 issue however has shown that you have 
taken your paper to new heights in amateur­
ish small minded journalism.
Many of us can remember better issues,
| and are amazed that The Tartan staff failed 
to muster even a modicum of talent or pro- 
j fessionalism in this latest offering. The last 
j issue could have served to clarify a confused 
j situation. Instead it approached the whole 
i question of Personal Computers in the 
CMU environment with a frenzied flurry of 
I ill considered and poorly aimed ravings. We 
do not propose in this letter to argue that 
j PCs are apprporiate or inappropriate;
| rather we wish to express our dismay that 
your methods of presenting the case showed 
both lack of consideration and restraint.
Inasmuch as your function is to inform 
| first and comment second, you have failed 
miserably. Monica Cellio’s lead article was 
far more opinion than fact. It was clear that 
I she held not a shred of objectivity in heart 
J when she wrote that peice.
I But the fault is not hers alone: the same 
spirit permeated the entire paper. Almost 
j universally your articles implicitly ascribed 
a sinister motive to the administration. Such 
“student-vs.-administration” reporting is 
j traditional fare in student papers, but does 
little to clarify the situation. We had hoped 
[ that you could transcend the petty “we vs.
they” attitude and proffer a better treatment 
[ of hte question.
Such dubious ad-hominem attacks on the 
i principals involved as “ ... why should [Dr. 
f Cyert] care how [the PC issue] will affect the 
University?” show a certain lack of concern 
for the truth. Granted that the reference is to 
I a letter by Laura Sabadell, who is not a 
I member of your staff, but perhaps the editor 
should have informed her that in a recent 
issue of “FORUM” (and in a recent Faculty 
Senate meeting) Dr. Cyert did not indicate 
any plan to leave in the near future (as Ms. 
Sabadell suggests) but rather that he 
I intended to stay for three to five more years.
She also asserts that “ ... we are now 
witnessing a gross mismanagement of a 
multimillion dollar project and a blatant 
disregard for the students well being.” It 
| seems to us that litde opportunity for mis- 
I management has yet presented itself to the 
( administration, as until a few days ago there 
1 was no project to manage, much less a for- 
I mal statement erf project objectives (more 
i about that later). Such “shoot from the lip”
: arguments as Ms. Sabadell’s ought to be 
I proper candidates for the editor’s preroga­
tive to “withhold from publication any copy 
I" it deems unfit . . .”
To aggravate us further, you claim that 
the administration is unconcerned with the 
| future. Almost all of your articles concen­
trated on the current undergrad population. 
I Vou failed to address the future at all. While 
arguing that the administration is 
I approaching the matter incorrecdy, you 
! tend to dwell on “what does this mean to the 
writer of the article?” rather than “what does 
I this mean to the class erf ’89?” I would sug­
gest that with the current body of facts (real, 
imagined and manufactured) that you have 
! at hand, a proper assessment erf what PCs 
I will mean to future students is nearly impos­
sible. Perhaps some research would have 
I shed more light on the situation, and would 
I Permit you to examine the issues properly.
the die is not yet cast. We know very litde 
| erf what it will all mean for the class of ’89.
The next few years will determine what can 
and should be done with PCs in all disci­
plines at CMU. The debate can only be 
conducted concerning the philosophy of 
PCs in the CMU environment. Implemen­
tation (what programs will run on them? 
How will Drama students use them?) is 
quite a different matter.
A project must go through several stages 
from original nascent concept to final use; it 
must move from concept to a well defined 
philosophy and requirement that oudines 
just what can and should be done. After this 
has been done, the implementation details 
need to be setded. You seem to assail the 
wisdom of integrating PCs into the curricu­
lum without any knowledge of how or 
where they can and should be integrated. 
This is the issue that needs to be addressed by 
the entire CMU community.
IBM is establishing a center here so that 
computer professionals may provide their 
talents in the effort to answer that questin. 
Perhaps with the help of The Tartan the 
MinernThN in wsph g
9
ti. i 11*1» IL
“...AND THEN THEY .STARTED 
THRQWI MG THESE CÜÜ1ÍIE3J
1 M.S14SSMAN4
DEC-20 withdrawal; learning to use a pen
Editor:
A friend of mine who goes to Dartmouth 
called me the other day.
“Hey, You didn’t tell me you went to that 
school with all the computer stuff. That 
must be really wild.”
“Yeah. It’s real wild.” Yeah, really. And 
every time I’d mention the fact that I went to 
CMU she’d ask me if I wanted a beer. Well, 
well, well, we finally got CMU on the map. 
Great. I was tired of people asking me if I 
went to Central Michigan anyway.
This summer, I took a writing course at 
Oxford and for some reason, it had never 
occurred to me that Oxford wasn’t going to 
have a shining DEC-20 complete with Scribe
and Emacs waiting for me in my dormitory 
room. I automatically assumed that such a 
prestigious institution would have the fore­
sight to provide its students with all the 
wonderful benefits of modem technology. 
But sometime during the flight over (I think 
I was watching “Arthur”), I had this insane 
vision of actually going to class without 20 
boldfaced, italicized, typo-free copies of my 
work hot off the line printer. But that was 
just so silly. I watched “Arthur” and ate a 
hard boiled egg.
In my room, I was greeted by some bare 
shelves, a lamp, a legal pad, a decaying copy 
of “Waiting for Godot” and three empty 
cans of Guiness beer with cigarette butts in
Tartan should conduct poll on PCs
Editor
Perhaps The Tartan should conduct an 
opinion poll on the issue of personal com­
puters for every CMU student, being that the 
issue is such a heated one and that the 
administration did not bother. Then we will 
all know (including Dr. Cyert, if he bothers 
to read the results) exacdy what the stand of 
the student body in general is.
I personally am opposed to the idea. 
Availability of terminals is quite acceptable 
now, and should they become somewhat 
less accessible in the future, then installing a 
few more terminals (rather than thousands) 
should relieve the problem just as it has in 
the past. Costs here are already tremend­
ously high; adding another $3000 could 
turn away a good number of prospective 
students. Besides, if a student is going to 
spend that much for his own computer, I 
think he should be able to choose who his 
“friend” will be, be it IBM or someone else.
One may think that, because I am gra­
duating in May (hopefully), I should not 
worry about this. But things might have 
been a lot better for myself and my class­
mates if our colleagues from previous years 
had concerned themselves with the issues of 
the times.
Philip D. Nanni 
Physics/Math *83
Van Horn insults H&SS abilites
Editor:
I don’t know about everybody else, but 
after reading Richard Van Horn’s “A Day 
With a Live-In Campus Computer,” I 
became convinced of the old adage, “the 
difference between men and boys is the price 
of their toys.”
Further, as a humanities student, I 
chuckled derisively at Van Horn’s remark 
(in an Oct 26 Tartan interview) that “H&SS 
students will develop the analytic skills that 
the engineers already have,” (by use of per­
sonal computing). To continue the quote: 
“Without computers, they never would 
have been exposed to these skills.”
Thank you, thank you, thank you. Please. 
I am now headed for a bit of faulty analysis, 
nobody try to stop me.
The day that CMU realizes what kind of 
computing skills go with what profesional
preparation is the day I’ll back a personal 
computing proposition. To date, I’ve yet to 
hear a single humanities student announce 
an insatiable need for a required course in 
Pascal. I’ve heard many of these same stu­
dents, however, express the desire to have 
been taught some basic skills, skills relevant 
to processing a lot of humanities work, such 
as SCRIBE, EMACS, or even simple file 
editing.
I can’t claim to know the plight of all the 
other colleges in the university, but what 
I’ve seen suggests that few people feel the 
computer skills they’ve been required to 
leam are applicable to what they need to do,, 
as a student or a future professional. It seems 
likely that the institution of personal com­
puting will magnify the existing problem; 
that is, the lack of coherent education in 
MinernThN in wsph g
them. No sign of a DEC-20.1 looked behind 
the curtains, moved the beer cans. Things 
were getting bad. Then I figured I’d been 
assigned to the wrong room so I went to 
look for the other writing students. A guy in 
Comparative Lit at Yale found half a box erf 
Alpen and a roach in his room. He said he 
didn’t know' what a DEC-20 was but if anyone 
on his floor had one, he’d tell me.
I slumped down against the wall outside 
his room. It was so ridiculous, acting like 
my best friend had died. It wrasn’t like I’d 
been raised on a terminal. I knew I could 
deal with the situation. I’ll just type.
Ha. Not only did my room (or any other 
for that matter) not have a stereo, radio, TV, 
or Jacuzzi but there wasn’t a single typewri­
ter housed within those hallowed walls. A 
heinous crime. Two girls from Mt. Holyoke 
noticed that the cigarette between my fingers 
was vibrating and queried about my distress. 
No typewriter? “Students don’t use them 
here,” they said walking away with Tab and 
Chaucer in hand.
“I don’t write without a typewriter” I said 
in their direction. The one with a pink rib­
bon in her hair turned around. “Then you 
don’t write.”
Even though I thought her name was 
Biffy, I thought she was right. I totally for­
got about any prior relationship with 
DEC-20. I felt guilty for owning an electric 
typewriter. I’d been spoiled by high technol­
ogy, and this was my purgatory. Now I had 
to compete with the Biffy’s who’d been read­
ing Descartes while I was learning Pascal. I 
was scared.
I suffered from intense log-in withdrawal 
for an entire week. I couldn’t even read my 
own handwriting because I hadn’t even seen 
it for two years. And my picayune T.S. Eliot 
professor kept bringing up the fact that I 
repeatedly misspelled “guard.” I didn’t care. 
I knew I was going back to CMU and 
Scribe’s SPELL program would save me 
from any emharassment. So I mumbled 
something about knowing that the "u” 
came before the “a”.
Class was a total drag. We had to sit there 
and listen to everyone read his/her poetry- 
/fiction from a crumpled piece erf yellow 
paper. I wanted my own copy with no typos 
in front of me. But the kids from Harvard, 
Amherst and Brown didn’t mind at all, and 
they thought I was being a technophile. I 
kept trying to explain, but they didn’t think 
it was any excuse few my lousy poetry.
MinernThN in w-phg

---------------------------------------------------

Oakland's Newest Record Store — Opening Wed. November 3
MinieerTh MinTMNe
The NO RISK Record Store
Tired of paying high prices for albums that you only play once or twice? 
Then RECESSION RECORDS is the place for you — here's how it works.
aH UTv sn styT, se iTP hbhPvNsv tiu wPrMh l T1Tsttv 5CH22 3iP s 1rnpth VmH
8H Vr1ehn ei e9h styT, l .sSh Tw ei od 9iTP1 ei NhMrNh r3 viT usne ei Shhw reH
fH B3 viT NinOe l Fx.0F> re l rn WFB%B>cV MinNrerin l 3iP s 5oH44 Ph3TnNH
That's all there is to itl
ROCK — FUNK — JAZZ — COUNTRY
We have today's hottest albums — and tomorrow's!
II\
Your ONE STOP Place to Shop 
For the best in 
Old and New Records
RECESSION RECORDS
687-1234
GARBAGE RECORDS
621-0686
3710 Forbes, 2nd floor
Next to McDonalds 
Mon. - Fri. 11 -8, Sat. 11 -6, Closed Sun.
t
t
t
wsMpswi MinTMNe
Announces:
NEW POLICIES
(Beginning Nov. 1)
1. ALL RECORDS ARE RETURNABLE!!
If you don't like it, bring it back in 48 hours, (unabused) and your money (minus $1 service charge) is refunded!!
2. SEARCH AND HOLD SERVICE
We'll find hard-to-get, out-of-print obscure, and collectable albums for you. (For a slightly higher fee)
3. MORE UBERAL BUYING POLICY
We'll pay higher prices for records (no more than $1 flat fee). We're the biggest used record store. We want to be the best. Help us!

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 5The Democrats and Republicans are at it again
By Stuart Shapiro
Among idealists, the notion that political 
campaigns are opportunities for intelligent 
discussion of important issues may still per­
sist. Enter reality. The American electoral 
process has elevated superficial­
ity to an art.
Look at the various House, 
Senate, and gubernatorial races 
around the country and try to find one that 
was characterized by meaningful debate 
between the candidates. If you find one, con­
tact the networks immediately. They love 
novelty acts.
Just about every campaign revolved 
around two questions. The more prominent 
of the two was Who’s Responsible for the 
Recession. The Democrats blaim the 
Republicans. The Republicans blame the 
Democrats. Now, don’t you feel 
enlightened?
I sure hope not. Rarely was there any 
substantive discussion of exacdy where the 
nation’s priorities lie and how those priori­
ties can be effectively addressed. If there is 
one fact of which people are now acutely 
aware, it is that we have limited resources 
available to solve the 57 varieties of domestic 
and foreign problems which plague us. We 
just can’t do it all at once. Unless you buy 
Reagan’s claim that we really can have our 
cake and eat it too. After two years it’s pretty 
stale.
The second question — the one asked 
privately by so many candidates and their 
campaign managers — was Who Will 
Screw Up First. Hardly an inspirational 
strategy. Nevertheless, a lot of contests will 
be decided today on the basis of who was 
more often and more severely the victim of 
foot-in-mouth disease. Keep quiet and wait 
for your opponent to shoot himself/herself 
in any convenient appendage. With any 
luck, the fool will inflict multiple wounds.
So we have the Illinois gubernatorial race 
turned into a referendum on whether or not 
Adlai E. Stevenson III is a wimp. The Iowa 
gubernatorial contest is up in the air because 
the Democratic candidate managed to avoid 
paying any state tax last year. In California, 
Jerry Brown may have managed to convince 
voters that his opponent would love a good
aofCg -HU
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph 8
plan, nor do many of The Tartan readers, 
but that is no justificauon for biasing a news 
story, whether it was conscious or not. Still, 
by virtue of the fact that you are viewing 
dissenting print right now, I believe that this 
incident of bias was unintended, and I am 
sure Miss Cellio’s future Tartan articles will 
be as well done as those of the past.
If I didn’t write what you wanted to hear 
this week, too bad. Just because you now 
have a cause doesn’t mean that you’re 
always right and the administration is 
always wrong. If you disagree with Cyert, 
great! Don’t let your righteous fervor blind 
you to the basic facts of the issues you are 
fighting for.
Chris Johnston is a sophomore in H&SS 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Marcelle's Typing Service
evgtfy,fPgb f- aHou 
loHtgbbf-1
.9h1h1lDsnT1MPrwe1lFh1hsPM9zehP, 
wswhP1lPh1T,h1zPhwhererbh theehP1 
“.TPsyrsn lcmclDVc 1ePinptv iy1hPbhN”
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service) 
10% discount with coupon
little nuclear war.
In her reelection campaign, Massachu­
setts Republican Representative Margaret 
Heckler resorted to distortions of Demo­
cratic Representative Barney Frank’s legisla­
tive record. In the Tennessee Senate race, 
challenger Robin Beard tried the same thing 
to the point of absurdity. Pennsylvania had 
Allen Ertel holding governor Richard 
Thornburgh personally responsible for the
rampage of a psychotic prison guard. Texas 
featured Governor William Clements’s 
attempt to generate votes out of a twenty- 
year-old drunk driving charge against his 
opponent.
A lot of politicians seem to believe that 
when rationality fails, sheer nastiness can 
save the day. In some cases it might. In 
others it has already backfired. In any event, 
all too many of today’s races will be decided
on the basis of the trivial and the outlandish. 
Between passing the buck and crucifying 
the opposition, there appears little room for 
people interested in earnestly discussing just 
what a candidate will or should do once in 
office.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
The economy might be looking up
By Wayne I. Cutler
The recent market surge has shed new 
light on the economy. Since mid-August, 
the Dow Jones Industrial average (calcu­
lated by adding up 30 major companies) has 
¡y mounted a 30% increase. Many 
financial analysts are labelling 
this the start erf a two year bull 
(rising) market.
What does this mean for the economy? At 
a time when unemployment and corporate 
bankruptcies have reached postwar highs, 
the stock market is acting in an “all is wrell” 
state. Asserts Business Week, “never have the 
fortunes of Main Street and Wall street 
appeared in sharper contrast.”
The stock market has been known to be 
one of the best leading indicators of the econ­
omy. In other words, what occurs in the 
stock market today, tells what is going to 
happen in the economy down the road.
In fact, the market has correcdy forecasted 
eight economic turning points since 1948. 
The turning point usually occurs three to 
eight months after the initial market’s turn­
around.
But during the first eight weeks of 1931, 
the stock market rose almost 20% and many 
expected the depression to end. It never did!
The reason the stock market is doing so 
well is because interest rates have been dec­
lining. It all started on August 17 when 
Henry Kaufman, a leading financial ana­
lyst, predicted rates would fall drastically in 
the ensuing months.
When the interest rates did in fact fall, 
institutional investors (investors who man­
age large portfolios) took ther money out of 
other instruments (money market funds and 
CD’s) and placed it in stocks. Money flows 
to where it returns the highest comparable 
yield and now the stock market is giving 
that yield.
With most corporate stocks up, firms are 
able to raise more capital by issuing more 
equity (stocks) and invest in new plant and 
equipment. For example, if the price of 
stock “x” is at $10 and company “x” issues
1000 shares, they will receive $10,000. How­
ever, if the firm awaits a market upturn, its 
stock price will be higher, say $20, and now 
the company would receive $20,000.
Also with interest rates down, businesses 
are able to borrow money at cheaper rates 
and thus increase their profitability. And 
when profitability increases, firms will be 
apt to invest in new projects and thus 
employ more people.
In conclusion, with the support of histori­
cal data and the easing of money raising 
devices, it appears that the stock market is a 
good indicator erf what’s to come in the 
economy.
Wayne Cutler is a senior majoring in 
Managerial economics and is a columnist 
for The Tartan.
Philosophy of government
By Ralph M. Sherman
Punditry and politics are often compan­
ions. Polling, demographics and analysis 
are the tools of campaign managers and 
network experts. Where, however, amongst 
s, promises and plati­
tudes of all the candidates, can 
one hear a philosophy of 
government?
It is not a philosophy to pledge that, 
regardless of all other factors, the Social 
Security system is inviolable and our elderly 
shall be made immune to the economic real­
ities all other citizens must face. It is no 
philosophy to promise "a tough defense” 
without clearly defining what our proper 
aims and goals, and therefore, defense needs 
MinernThN in wsph A
PRIESTHOOD?Have you ever thought of becoming a Catholic Priest?
That idea is not so strange as it seems. Many Young Men are 
considering that possiblity during their college years. Why not obtain 
more information and guidance about this oppurtunity in your life?
c mPrh1e9iiN BnGTrPv ksv 3iP Mitthph’sph ,hn r1 wtsnnhN 3iP 
­PrNsv’LseTPNsv! >ibh,yhP a8’af! a2d8 se Lsrne msTt 
Lh,rnsPv rn mree1yTPp9H B3 viT usne ei seehnN iP iyesrn ,iPh 
rn3iP,serinH mths1h IPreh6
jiMserin W33rMh! kriMh1h i3 mree1yTPp9
aaa UiTthbsPN i3 e9h cttrh1! mree1yTPp9! mhnn1vtbsnrs aC888 
iP m9inh6 oCg’f4AfH
x>%B>xxFL ’ %W ­0VV Lmxxk c‘xcm
c. xVxR.FBR FWc.
Electric Boat is the world's foremost designer 
and builder of nuclear submarines — one of 
the great engineering challenges of this century.
With a $3 billion backlog and long-term contracts 
Electric Boat offers career opportunities in nearly 
every engineering discipline (including electrical, 
mechanical, civil, etc.), top pay and benefits, 
long-range stability and an unmatched lifestyle 
on the southern New England seacoast.
U S Ctoenship required — an Equal Opportunity Employer MSF. HC
GENERAL DVNAMICS
Electric Boat Division
The Best Shipbuilding Team in America
Groton. CT 06340
Electric Boat Division will be 
interviewing on campus on November 12,1982. Informa­
tive slide presentations, ques­
tion and answer period to be 
held on the evening of November 11, 1982. Refresh­
ments will be served. Please 
contact the Placement Office 
for time and place.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—November 2, 1982Oxford and computers
By the end of the summer I was writing 
better, but I think that’s because I was actu­
ally writing and not worrying about 
whether IBM was going to take over the 
world and turn us all into actualizations of 
Alvin Toffler’s “Third Wave.” And the kids 
from the Ivy League were all talking about 
taking an intro to computing course when 
they returned to their respective schools. 
Some guy from Brown told me he had a 
cousin who took a course in Fortran and
do not compute at all
liked it.
Immediately upon my return to CMU, I 
took all the stuff I’d written at Oxford and 
ran it through Scribe to make copies. So 
what. The equipment is here, I might as 
well us it, right? I noticed that I not only 
misspelled “guard” 32 times over the course 
of the summer but I also had definite prob­
lems with “prodigious.” Well, I haven’t 
misspelled either one since, and I think 
that’s good.
So I’m going to be a writer after I leam 
how to write. Computers didn’t do a thing 
for my poetry but my fingers feel better. And 
the whole time my friend from Dartmouth 
was bitching about xeroxing fees and typew­
riter ribbon, I was filing my nails, which no 
longer break over typewriter keys. But when 
she said she’d recently had something pub­
lished in the Georgetown Review, I silently 
reached for a pen.
Maria Barbuto
I#
The Tartan charged with "raving
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph f
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph f
Well, I managed to get an ailing manual 
typewriter (I’d never seen one in my entire 
life) from some guy who worked at Black­
well’s bookstore by trading a Rolling Stones 
ticket and a Trinity College mug that I’d 
gotten from the cafeteria. My writing ceased 
to show any great signs of improvement and 
my fingers, which were used to gliding 
gracefully over the keyboard of a terminal, 
suffered from acute black ink stains and 
cramps from being subjected to unnatural 
positions.
But there was something pleasant about 
wTiting poetry without a silver cursor blink­
ing maniacally at me, and I kind of liked the 
sharp click of the bare keys against the paper 
instead of the wimpy hum of Emacs. How­
ever, my writing was still shitty. So I picked 
up a pen, learned how to form letters again 
and kept a journal which received a favora­
ble response in class.
Then I went to my Shakespeare tutorial 
and handed my don a 20 page typed analysis 
of All’s Well That End’s Well. He stared 
quizically at the lump of paper on his desk. I 
started to walk away, and he asked me where 
I was going. I said, “To sleep” and he said, 
“Not yet. You have to read this to me.” A 
sardonic grin fell over my face and I thought 
about freshman year at CMU when I’d stay 
up all night to finish a Pascal program and 
transfer my files to my professor with the 
magical “hand in” command, so I could go 
to sleep without ever having to confront
anyone in mv caffeinated state.I said, “Sure. Do you have any coffee?” 
And I sat there reading the whole thing to 
him, barely managing to hold my body in 
some semblance of a vertical position. After 
I mumbled the last few words, we talked 
about my paper and the play and Shakes­
peare. Hmmm instant feedback. Something 
new. I liked it.
student body may gain access to the infor­
mation necessary to make them a part of this 
development.
The administration has made the decision 
to explore the possibilities; IBM has agreed 
to supply the development tools; now the 
students should move to provide well consi­
dered suggestions to the people who will be 
forming the specification of the goals and 
implementation plan. So far all we have 
heard have been ill considered ravings and 
rumors. The class of 1989 deserves better. We 
are confident in The Tartan’s ability to pro­
vide a forum for more coherent and to-the- 
point discussion.
Sincerely 
M.H. Reilly 
J.H. Kim (E 78, E ’80) 
F.J. Ferguson 
A.H. Ferguson 
Henry W. Stone (E ’81) 
Yu Lung Chu 
Ralph McGarity 
William P. Birmingham (E ’82) 
N. Tyle 
Mike Schuette 
Mickey Tsao (E 77, E ’79) 
T.M. Sommer
Because The Tartan is a newspaper prim­
arily for CMU students, we report issues of 
student concern up front Perhaps if we were 
Newsweek we’d report them in a different 
order. Your implication that our facts are 
“imagined and uninformed” is unwar­
ranted. The lead story accredited all inf or -
mation sources and opinion — whether 
given by the acting dean of students, the 
president, or a student senator. We appre­
ciate your concern, and believe it or not we 
want to clarify this multi-faceted issue as 
much as you wish us to. We’re trying.
—Editor.
No skills without machines? 
H&SS does it without day-g/o
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph f
computers and computing as would benefit 
students by major.
Computers are here to stay. I don’t deny it; 
I don’t think many do. But to suggest that 
certain analytical skills would remain 
undeveloped without them is an insult. It is 
an insult to some of the finest analytical 
thinkers I’ve ever met, who have fortunately 
also been some of my professors. I would 
much rather assimilate my analytical skills 
from flesh and blood than from a bunch of 
day-glo green letters on a computer screen. 
Knowing how to use the computer must be 
an enhancement to already existing
methods of learning; the day it becomes the 
total replacement, we’re in for a hell of a lot 
of trouble.
I am puzzled by Dr. Van Horn’s critical 
attitude; I thought he was part of the 
humanities home team. Humanities, you 
remember “the branches of learning having 
a primarily cultural character?” Away from 
the point of “lack of analytical skills?” I 
suppose I am. But I hope this school gets 
real one of these days. It’s not very attractive 
to bite that hand that feeds you.
Lynne M. Schatz 
Sophomore, H&SS
STUDENT SENATE AGENDA 
NOVEMBER 2, 1982
aH Rstt ei WPNhP
8H Fitt Rstt
fH cwwPibst i3 e9h DrnTeh1
oH cTNrhnMh msPerMrwserin ’ ctt ,h,yhP1 
i3 e9h sTNrhnMh sPh rnbrehN ei sNNPh11 
e9h Lhnseh in snv r11Th i3 MinMhPn ei 
e9h,H
CH W33rMhP1 FhwiPe1
Dean Walter - Administration
Dean Cox - Administration
Nate Solano - Student Government President
Mark Marsella — SDC
Charlie Krafft - GSO
Gina Fleitman - UFO
Alexandra Kavoulakis - Senate Chairman
Janelle Malloy - Senate Vice-Chairman
gH Lhnseh LesnNrnp Ri,,reehh
Rules - General Announcements 
Academic Affairs - General Announcements 
GC&I - General Announcements 
Finance - General Announcements
AH >hu UT1rnh11
dH %hnhPst kr1MT11rin
2H cnniTnMh,hne1
a4H cN°iTPn,hne
THE SECONDS OF STUDENT SENATE 
26 October 1982
5f12 su3f-fbCoyCfH- HVVftfy,b yuuogbbgu C2g eCmug-C eg-yCg CH-f12C s,H-1 UfC2 C2g 
og1m,yo su3f-fbCoyCfH- HVVftfy,b8 Ngy- ay,Cgo y-u Ngy- nH9. nSd BftgOloHFHbC By- 
5HmUg,f-1 y-u loHFHbC By- 5Ho- yuuogbbgu C2g bCmug-Cb y-u eg-yCHob ybbg3x,gu f- C2g 
5f12,y-ugo MHH3 0Ho 3Hog C2y- y- 2Hmo >mgbCfH-b Ugog y-bUgogu og1youf-1 C2g 
rpSOnSd tH-CoytC8 VoH3 xHC2 eg-yCHob y-u C2g ymufg-tg. Wg% vHf-Cb H- C2g fbbmg 
g3go1gu rC UHm,u xg mbgVm, CH FfgU C2g g9vg-bgb yb tH3f-1 VoH3 y xf1 vHC HV Vm-ub8 y-u 
bf-tg bCmug-Cb uH -HC tHFgo C2g tHbCb HV C2gfo gumtyCfH- f- C2gfo CmfCfH-8 C2g% Uf,, -HC xg 
ufogtC,% vy%f-1 VHo y-u Vm-uf-1 tH3vmCgo Cgt2-H,H1%. eCmug-Cb y,Uy%b 2yFg ufVVgog-C 
,gFg,b HV g>mfv3g-C y-u 3yCgofy,b 3yug yFyf,yx,g CH C2g38 y-u vy% VHo fCg3b C2g% 3y% 
-gFgo bgg Ho mbg ufogtC,%. c2g Cgo3b HV C2g tH-CoytC yog x% -gtgbbfC% tH-Vfug-Cfy,8 y-u 
oyC2go CgufHmb8 xmC y bg,gtC -m3xgo HV bCmug-C ogvogbg-CyCfFgb Uf,, xg y,,HUgu CH FfgU xmC 
-HC ufogtC,% >mHCg C2g g-Cfog y1ogg3g-C nSd 2yb tH33fCCgu CH rpS bvytg CH tyoo% HmC 
C2g ogbgyot2 UHo48 y-u CUH voH1oy3b CH 2g,v f- C2g ogbgyot2 rpS 2yb v,gu1gu CH nSd 
bmvvHoC VHo Vm,, tHbCb HV C2g r-VH. cgt2. ng-Cgo8 voHFfug bCyVV y-u yvvoHvofyCg g>mfv3g-C VHo 
C2g3 y-u Uf,, ogFfgU VmoC2go yVCgo C2ogg %gyob hT 0rhsD swMiiSihc 5se piih 
Misn5iN. 5HUgFgo y Coy-boCH-y,vgofHu CH yttH3HuyCg C2g H,ugo vogbg-C -gCUHo4 Uf,, 
tH3g f- HV tHmobg HFgo -g9C bgFgoy, %gyo.
sb Ug,,8 fC Uyb vHf-Cgu HmC C2yC C2g CmfCfH- HV nSd 2yb -HC 4gvC mv UfC2 Src y-u 3y% 
g-uy-1go 1gCCf-1 y-u 4ggvf-1 yCCoytCfFg Vytm,C% by,yofgb y-u bt2HH, tH3vgCfCfFg-gbb. c2g 
vHf-C Uyb bCogbbgu C2yC C2g bCmug-Cb tHm,u 3y4g y ogy, t2y-1g f- v,y--f-1 HV d-fFgobfC% 
y-u tmoog-C bCmug-Cb UHm,u xg og1yougu yb 2yFf-1 Fy,fu y-u f3vHoCy-C f-vmC CH C2fb y-u 
HC2go voHx,g3b TC2goUfbg UHm,u xg bmftfug CH f1-Hog bCmug-Cb y-u C2gfo ,g1fC tH-tgo-b. 
lHCg-Cfy, bHtfy, gVVgtCb Uf,, xg bCmufgu y-u yttHm-Cgu VHo f- VmoC2go ugtfbfH-b. c2gfo 
yvvoHFy, HV Vf-y, -gCUHo4f-1 b%bCg3 fb bCf,, V,g9fx,g. eCmug-C eg-yCg y-u eNn 2yFg 
gbCyx,fb2gu y zHf-C nH338 H- nH3vmCf-18 xgf-1 t2yfogu x% zy-g,,g SH,,H% “tmoog-C 
eg-yCg BftgOn2yfo”.
c2g cmfCfH- My,,% Uyb xoHm12C mv y1yf-8 yb Uyb C2g fbbmg HV vHCg-Cfy, nTTl voH1oy3b 
f- Sne. c2g uoHvvf-1 HV tH-CoytCb VHo 0HHu egoFftg VHo VoyCgo-fC% v,gu1gb fb f- -g1HCfyA
CfH-b yb Ug,,G k 3gy,b vgo Ugg4 fb tmoog-C ,gFg, bgg- yb yttgvCyx,g 0HHu egoFftg 
tH3voH3fbg. lgCfCfH-b yog HmC H- mvtH3f-1 eg-yCg g,gtCfH-b8 yb yog Ho1y-fPyCfH- bmoA
Fg%b — y,, Ho1y-fPyCfH-b 3mbC Vf,, HmC Ho g9vfog. c2g eg-yCg bmbvg-ugu C2g p%,yUb CH 
y,,HU C2g sl5rT Ho1y-fPyCfH- CH om- C2g mvtH3f-1 g,gtCfH- Vogg HV t2yo1g CH y,,. c2g 
b2HU C2yC -gFgo g-ub Uf,, ogOtHoCFg-g -g9C cmgbuy% yC ’.O­­ v.3. f- C2g a2googCC MHH3 
y-u %Hm yog y,, g-tHmoy1gu y-u f-FfCgu CH vyoCftfvyCg Ffy smufg-tg lyoCftfvyCfH-. wgC 
r-FH,FguLLL

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 7
Letters 
Carnegie-Mellon commited to world of machines
Editor:
Herbert Kaufman once said, “Education 
is a chest of tools.” At CMU, in light of 
recent activities, it seems like our higher 
education will be accompanied by a new 
tool, a personal computer.
As everyone knows by now, CMU and 
IBM have signed a contract to develop a 
powerful computer workstation and com­
munication network system. The next step 
after this would be furnishing personal 
computers to the students. Though not 
decided (at least not announced) funding 
would probably result through an increase 
in tuition. Many members of the CMU com­
munity are against this program.
Many arguments center around the fact 
that some students, in particular drama 
majors, would have no use of a computer. 
Raising tuition gets around the fact that 
students are required to purchase personal 
computers. The bottom line is that the stu­
dent does pay for the personal computer. 
One could agree then that this would be 
unfair to those who don’t want a computer.
But let’s get the facts about tuition 
straight. Everyone is charged the same tui­
tion. All the money is put into a big pile and 
is disbursed to different areas. Money is dis­
bursed in the form of salaries, maintenance 
of the campus, libraries, athletics, lab equip­
ment, stages and sets, current computing 
facilities, and eventually towards the per­
sonal computers. All students have some 
form of access to these areas from which they 
can benefit and get their monies worth. So it 
is true that tuition can be used for the cost of 
the personal computer. It is also used for 
faculty, stage productions, the physical 
plant, coaches and other areas. As quoted in 
The Tartan, Provost Richard Van Horn 
said, “No student pays the full cost of his 
education, some just come closer than 
others.”
Further isolation, as argued by some in 
recent issues of The Tartan, would take 
place in a community w’here there is already 
a low level of social interaction among stu­
dents. Nobody likes to be isolated. If you are 
slowly pushed into a comer, the more you 
would want to break loose. Students would 
make an effort to avoid being isolated. As to 
the fact that this is a campur of low social 
interaction, maybe some c 'er organiza­
tions are failing.
Maintenance and damage are factors that 
can’t be ignored. Thev do exist with the use 
of a computer as they do for any other object 
on the world. Maintenance and possibility 
of damage should not hinder the acceptance 
of the program but should be acknowledged 
in the cost of the program.
So what is so great about computers? 
Well, the computer can process inputted or 
stored data and produce output in some 
form such as numbers, text, sound, graphics 
and mechanical motion. It does it quickly 
and repetitively. The computer is an exten­
sion of the capabilities of the human mind 
just like the pen is for a writer. Computers 
relieve many time consuming and routine 
tasks of the mind freeing it to be creative. 
The potential of the computer is limited 
only by the vision of the human mind.
The computer plays a major role in 
society today. Few things have touched the 
life of most people the way the computer 
has. For example, the automobile, to state 
the obvious, has created a culture of people 
who view time and space in a radically dif­
ferent way than their ancestors did. The 
computer is used in mail, television, educa­
tion, defense, word processing, airports, 
areas involving transactions (rf money ... 
and the list goes on. Everything is being 
computerized so society must adapt and 
leam how to use the new conveniences 
created by technology. CMU is accomplish­
ing this through its on-going commitment 
to the science and application of computers.
CMU is committed to the world of com­
puters, but it is first responsible to the stu­
dent academically and socially as an 
institution of learning. At CMU, students 
are prepared for the job market and life in 
the real world. At the same time the compu­
ter is playing a growing role in the almost 
every occupation and in society. The use of 
personal computers would gready enhance 
the student’s knowledge and job market 
value.
CMU has responsibilities as an institu­
tion of research whether in engineering, 
robotics, psychology, or computers. It is 
committed to keep up with new knowledge 
and take an active part in its development.
CMU also has a responsibility to the 
future. It plays a role in what the future will 
be like for its students, faculty and the world. 
CMU should also be responsible to the 
future students. Here is an area that is 
important but often forgotten. Opposition 
to this venture comes from current students 
who really will not be around during its 
implementation.
The group of students who will be 
affected by the program is the computer gen­
eration. They are around 14 years old and 
during most of their life, the computer has 
played an important part in their life. Com­
puter use in schools is growing so fast that 
half the elementary and secondary schools 
will have computers in the next two years. 
These kids are living in a world composed
che cucKc^
2236 (nUJtR&Y aV€NU€ 
prctsBURçb. pai. 152.17
An old-time shop 
where nice old books 
axe bought, sold, appraised, 
searched for, and appreciated.
Browsers welcome.
52J-0249
of coin-operated video games, home televi­
sion games, and computers in school.
Personal computers can be bunched in 
clusters around the campus or placed in the 
student’s dorm room. Use of the computer 
in the dorm room is a much closer model of 
what society will be like eventually. A per­
sonal computer in every house and business 
is a prediction being realized. In 1981,
215,000 computers were put on the shelves 
for sale. By 1983, the estimate is 3.5 million 
computers in retail stores ranging from K- 
Mart to specialized computer stores.
The use of the personal computer at 
CMU will include the routine tasks such as 
mail, word processing, and calculations.
New areas open are network communica­
tions with other computers around the 
nation, a huge data base of information, 
games, worksheet programs (your basic 
“What if?” program like Visicalc), graphics 
and whatever the mind can come up with.
Expansion of CMU’s computing power 
is needed simply because there is a growing 
demand for it from current and future users. 
CMU through this program is preparing 
the way and itself for the future. Personal 
computers for everyone is a must because it 
is a useful tool and becoming a part in every­
day life.
Tim Liu
Information Systems & AMS
More philosophy of government
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph g
are. Philosophy does not reside in the plati­
tude that promotes a balanced budget — 
when the deliverer of this bromide fails to 
answer how he would achieve the balance.
Though it is not true that any philosophy 
is better than none at all, it is easy to see how 
a clearly enunciated philosophy, even when 
wrong, is so appealing to Americans, 
starved for such an approach. When Tues­
day comes, and the voting booths and bal­
lots are closed and couonted, the choices will 
be amongst various modifications of a cen­
tral theme, and the issue of government 
spending will not be one of “is it right?” but 
“how much?”
Candidates using appeals to the non- 
rational — with images of Armageddon to 
paint their opponents as death-mongers if 
they oppose a “nuclear freeze,” and other 
such tactics — may easily take office. In 
other elections, promises to “create jobs,” to
fund programs with bonds that are nothing 
more than a promise to take people’s money 
later to spend money now, and other 
attempts to replace a restricted free market 
with a false market, will surely find support.
Eventually, the biHs come due, the 
chickens come home to roost* and the poli­
cies of the past are paid for. Should the 
Democrats, achieving the victory they pray 
for, be restored to a more vigorous level of 
power in Congress, it is likely they will 
change litde but the rhetoric erf the past. If 
not, the Republicans, who ask us to stay on 
the course that is basically uncharted, will 
proceed with more of the same. Neither side 
can be expected to deal with the roots and 
premises of government’s proper role, only 
choosing how to spend more or less of other 
people’s money.
Ralph M. Sherman is a senior in Political 
Science and History and is a columnist for 
The Tartan
Scotch TV Soda
presents
see it.
November 4, 6 and 7 
Skibo Ballroom, 8:00 p.m. 
tickets on sale at Info, desk
funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
qhsP3iee rNhs1 pTrNh e9h 3TeTPhH
Our systems guide almost everything that moves... including careers.
Our rarefied technological environment has been producing ground-breaking applications—and fast-moving careers—for over 30 years.
If you re looking for a fast-track opportunity in aerospace technology, see your Placement Office for our company profile and to sign up for a one-on-one interview U.S. citizenship required.
An equal opportunity employer, m/f, who creates opportunitiesKearfott
a division of The SIN C E R Company
Campuses program to become silicon valleys
ANN ARBOR, MI (CPS)— When student 
body President Amy Moore walked across 
the University of Michigan’s north campus 
area on a recent fall morning, she passed the 
Macro-Molecular Research Center, the Dow 
Building and the Chrysler Center.
Then she entered the Institute of Science 
and Technology.
There she endured with a crowd erf univ 
sity, state and corporate officials a regular 
meeting of the new Michigan Technology 
Council, ending with a slide show by 1ST 
Director George Gamota. Gamota, whose 
background is in private high tech industry, 
is now the fifth highest-paid administrator 
on campus.
The slide show, a videotaped show made
to air during UM football games, and a 
muld-page insert in last month’s Scientific 
American magazine are just the tip of a 
massive effort designed to make the univer­
sity, battered by the auto industry depression 
and a flight of research dollars to the Sun 
Belt, into the academically-prosperous cen­
ter of a “Silicon Valley of the East.” 
Michigan administrators, though, are 
hardly alone.
College planners in at least nine other 
states are planning to become the Silicon 
Valleys of wherever they happen to be.
Indeed, while their students are indulging 
video game fads, an astoundingly diverse set 
of admenistrators are indulging in plans to
ter company-dominated “Silicon Valley” of 
northern California, and the research cam­
puses of Massachusettes.
Those schools have built profitable rela­
tionships with nearby computer companies, 
which help fund campus high-tech 
research, and then hire many of the school’s 
grads.
Among those campuses that have recently 
announced ambitious plans to emulate 
schools with high tech programs:
—The University of New Mexico, which 
will spend some $20 million to become the 
training ground and main research lab for 
the state’s developing high tech industries.
—Penn State has construction plans for a
emulate the success of schools in thecompu- “high technology park” to draw high-tech
companies to its area.
—The University of Denver is making 
itself into a “wired campus,” linked by 
sophisticated computer and information 
processing systems, and will soon re-open 
its engineering program.
The list goes on. Illinois is fashioning “a 
network of high technology facilities asso­
ciated with various univeristies” in the state. 
Massachusetts, Viiginia, Mississippi, Mis­
souri and Arizona campus planners are all 
working on projects that would draw more 
high-tech businesses to depressed areas by 
making area campuses into manpower and 
research pools.
“What’s happening is that a number of 
MinernThN in wsph 2
e!w! 2g,vb bCmug-Cb UfC2 VmCmog voHx,g3b
By TINA ELLERBEE
Tartan Staffwriter
What are you going to do for the rest of 
your life?
Obviously the above is a question eve­
ryone faces at one time or another. For those 
CMU students having difficulty answering 
it, the Counseling and Student Develop­
ment Center provides a unique service that 
can point the way to answers.
That service is SIGI (pronounced siggy), 
whice stands for System of Interactive Gui­
dance and Information. SIGI is a computer- 
based aid to career decision making. By 
logging in to the terminal in the center, a 
student gains access to SIGI and runs a pro­
gram consisting erf six parts.
The first part builds an occupational 
value profile. The user examines 10 values 
(such as leisure time, variety, salary and 
security) and gives a rating of the impor­
tance of each one. SIGI runs a test that 
requires the user to closely examine why 
these values are important.
SIGI then prints a list of occupations 
which satisfy these values.
Next, the user compares the listed occupa­
tions. SIGI allows users to ask questions 
about the various occupations (such as 
whether the job market is expanding or con­
tracting, what kind of salary to expect, and 
where job training is available). From the 
answers to these questions the user decides 
which jobs might be right foir him.
The fourth part involves prediction of 
success. The user must determine the proba­
bility of meeting the educational require­
ments. Essentially, the user dedicates 
whether or not he can make the grade.
The planning stage lists the steps that 
must be taken to enter the occupation under 
consideration. Licensing, certification 
requirements, and sources of financial aid 
are presented.
The final part is evaluating the risks and 
rewards of each occupation. It involves com­
puting an average which represents the like- 
ilihood of success and also an average which 
represents how well the user’s occupational 
value profile matches the occupation in 
question. Based on these averages career cho­
ices can be made.
Dr. Robert Feller, director of the Center 
on the Materials of the Artist and Conserva­
tor at Mellon Institute, has been named an 
honorary fellow of the American Institute 
for Conservation of Historic and Artistic 
Works(AIC).
Feller, an internationally renowned 
expert on art preservation, was recognized 
for his more than thirty years of service and 
research to the field.
He completed nine years as president of 
the International Council of Museums 
Committee for Conservation in 1978; more 
recently, he spjent four years as chairman of 
the National Conservation Advisory 
Council.
Feller has a doctorate in physical-organic 
chemistry.
WEDNESDAY,Feller honored 
for art work
PREGNANT? can YoY
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. MWF; 11-1 p.m. TTS
Free and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
• non-pro*« organization
This entire process usually takes about 
three hours to complete, although most stu­
dents break it up into several sessions. Using 
SIGI is very easy and requires only a trip to 
the Counseling Center to obtain a file 
number. For those unsure about career 
plans, SIGI can be a valuable tool.
BS&MSEE,
BS/Physics,
BS/CS
CAMPUSINTERVIEWS

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 9
High-tech takes on importance at some schools
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph d
universities are creating arrangements with 
high tech industries,” said Dr. W. Edward 
Leare of the American Society for Engineer­
ing Education.
"But I think it’s good,” he added. “Not 
just the financial support, but the interac­
tion between education and industry can be 
very beneficial.”
“This new linking,” said Michael Berrier 
of the American Association for State Col­
leges and Universities,” is very productive.” 
Berrier likes tying colleges to local econo­
mies, and believes “state governments are 
willing to put more money into the univer­
sities in areas what will produce engineers, 
programmers and scientists to fuel high tech 
industries.”
But others fret about unhealthy corporate
sway o' er campuses, established by the huge 
amounts of money that the private concerns 
can pump into academic programs.
They also worry that liberal arts pro­
grams will be allowed to fall into disrepair, 
and that, with Silicon Valleys in every con­
ceivable part of the country, some colleges 
could end up producing highly-specialized 
grads who couldn’t find jobs if computer 
industries should ever hit an economic 
bump.
“I don’t think the students really see all 
the technology and industry coming here, 
the specialization, the outpouring of 
money,” Michagan’s Moore said. “I see it, 
and I’m very concerned.”
“What I’m really worried about are the 
students,” Bret Homback, an English prof
at Michigan, said. “A university dedicated to 
robitics could very easily turn out students 
who are robots.”
“What is missing in much of this talk 
about high technology is the central impor­
tance of intellectual planning,” said Bob 
Beyers of Stanford University. “That does 
not mean everybody sits down to decide on 
luring industry the way a chamber of com­
merce would do it.”
But even high tech enthusiasts carefully 
pay respects to the liberal arts.
High tech, said New Mexico engineering 
Dean Gerald May, is “what we’re building 
on. But .. a good university also requires a 
good department of English or 
philosophy.”
Leare is confident “the universities are 
astute enough not to lose their autonomy”
to big business.
University of Denver Chancellor Ross 
Pritchard simply dismisses the concern, con­
tending a lopsided marriage with private 
companies isn’t “a significant threat to us.”
At Michigan, there is already some aca­
demic realignment. “On the one hand,” said 
Moore, “we have this dedication to high 
technology, and on the other side you see 
things like the an school being reviewed for 
possible elimination, or the natural resour­
ces and the education schools getting cut 
back.”
Michigan abolished its geography depart­
ment last year.
“One of the things this school has going 
for it is its diversity,” she said, “and today 
that diversity is seriously threatened.”
FOODS S4LE! 1
QUALITY INFERENCE, 
TECHNICAL & SCHOLARLY 
BOOKS AT SAVINGS OF 
50% TO 85% OFF ORIGINAL 
PUBLISHED PRICES
£9 /W>o?
»LÉ SWRTS 5CS.,
L0U^xR.L U? .‘x kW'x>LH .B.VxL U? .‘x ‘0>kFxkLH
? HISTORY ? SOCIOLOGY ? ART ? ECONOMICS
? PHILOSOPHY ? MATHEMATICS ? EDUCATION ? SCIENCE
? HEALTH ? SPEECH ? LAN ? ECOLOGY ? TRAVEL
? POLITICAL SCIENCE ? RELIGION ? BUSINESS ? MEDICAL
? ENGINEERING ? UTERARJRE ? PSYCHOLOGY
? LANGUAGES ? MUSIC ? MORE. MORE. MORE•emu UccKstcre*
THE LATEST IN ELECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
ki,h1erM1
12 02. I 16 o 6. cons (& quarts)STROHS'LOWENBRAU It. Dk -bottlesMICHELOBBUDWEISER'MILLER-OLD ENGLISH 800'SCHLITZ MALT"IRON CITY’ERLANGER—bottles GENNESEE ROILING ROCK SCHMIDTS'PABST-SCHLITZ'PEARL ¡Texas)—bottles DOUBLE DARK—bottles BLATZ PIELSOLD MILWAUKEE PINK CHAMP ALE-bottles'COLT 45- MILLER LITE MICHELOB UTE IRON CITY LIGHT'available in quarts also
­xc.0FB>% 88 jcFBx.BxL W­ L0ULSteti**C<Kr>ed Beef»Tuno*Turliey
Lc>kIBR‘xLH< icktoc t*Cod*Ground SteakoSousoge Veol*Chuck«Chicken Parmesan
LmxRBcV.? B.xDLSteak Subs»Fresb Cot French fries Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments Pizzo served till 3am
Ix cFx >W. cVVWIxk .W 
ckjxF.BLx W0F VWI UxxF mFBRxL
Serving beer Sundoy lpm-2om 
Imports, Cons, Quarts, Draft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Droft Beers: 
HEINEKENWMOISON ALE*MICHELOB 
STROHS*MILtER*SCHUTZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk. 
featured each week:
STROHS*ROLLING ROCK*SCHllTZ 
OLD ENGLISH S00*SCHLITZ MALT*PABST
’B,wiPe1’
BECK S It. Dk Germany BASS AtE England HARP LAGER Ireland MOL SON GOLDEN Cornu* HEINFKFN It. Dk Holland LOWENBRAU Germany O KEEFE ALE Cam**. PILSNER URQUEIt C/ecH KIRIN JapanMACKESON STOUT Ireland OlD VIENNA LAGER Can«« 55 LAGER Canada
ST PAULI G«Rt Qermorty DOS EQUISXX Me*« o JOHN COURAGE England WATNEYS fnykmd CARLSBERG ELEPHANT Den CARLSBERG ROYAlE Denmark CARLSBERG DARK Demwirk TSINGTAO 0»n,.HACKER PSCHORR Germany IABATTS Canotla i MURPHY Ireland COOPER & SON Ausfralia- FOSTER S LAGER Austria
^ V Open
B 2s,’f oCs, LTn’.9TP1 
2s, o6oCs, Fri-Sot 
‘tIr Rstt g8a’Afdd iP g8a’aadC 
f24a ­iPyh1 cbhH “WsStsnN”
‘W. kW% L‘WmLH B>RH mp9H ms aC8af
SPRING SEMESTER 1983 REGISTRATION
Registration for the Spring Semester 1983 has been scheduled for November lOand 11,1982. Freshmen in CIT and 
MCS will receive separate registration instructions from Dean Kail and will not register at this time. All other students, 
graduate and undergraduate, are expected to register at this time if they wish to be on the rolls for the Spring 
Semester. If you will not be returning for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form (clearly 
marked for Spring 1983) with your department. If you are studying off campus, or for some other reason cannot 
register on November 10 or 11, ask your advisor to process a registration for you or call the Registrar’s Office for 
special instructions.
The Class Schedule Booklet will be available after November 1, at the Public Relations Office, Baker Hall 160, and 
the Information Desk in Skibo. The Class Schedule contains a list of the courses which will be offered next semester, 
the schedule and classrooms for each, the instructor's name, and complete istructions for registration. Please obtain 
one and carefully read and follow the instructions contained in it
A single registration form called the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) will be used for 
registration. It will provide an additional opportunity for you to review and update the demographic information on file 
for you and provide a form on which to list and have approved your program for the coming semester.
1. Pick-up your R3D Form from your department and correct the demographic information.
(Forms for H&SS freshmen and sophomores will be available in the H&SS Advising Center).
2. Meet with your advisor and have a schedule with alternatives approved.
3. Between 9:30 am. and 4:00 p.m. on November 10 or 11 go to each department teaching
the courses in which you wish to register to obtain registration approval.
4. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D Form to your department. You keep the last
(yellow) copy.
If you need further information or assistance, please catt the Office of the Registrar, 578- 
2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Clip this ad Send it to dad Get yourself an off-cam
As a resident of The Tower, you’ll have 
special privileges to the Chatham Hyatt 
Health Club, where you can start your 
day with a workout, sauna or swim.
And all this is waiting for you in the 
heart of Pittsburgh’s dynamic Renais­
sance II. Convenient to school and just 
minutes from shopping, dining and excit­
ing nighttime entertainment.
So what are you waiting for? Now, 
instead of asking for more money, you 
can write home and tell your parents 
how to get in on some major tax and 
equity benefits.
Now it’s easy at The Tower. A 
ium at Chatham Center. Because we’ve 
developed a plan that, in conjunction 
with the Economic Recovery Act of 1981, 
makes it possible for buyers of condo­
miniums to create tax losses when renting 
those condominiums to relatives or co­
owners.
The plan also permits accelerated 
depreciation, which allows the owner of 
a rental property to write off its value in 
15 years instead of 25 to 40 years. That 
means a king-size annual tax deduction 
for your parents. And best of all, a beau­
tiful apartment home for you at The Tower. 
With a private doorman to greet you 24 
hours a day. And an elegant hospitality 
lounge where you can study, or just relax.
They’ll be very impressed with all that 
you’ve learned.
Sales Center on the 20th floor, open from 
10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, 
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday and 11 a.m. to 
6 p.m. Sunday.
Follow signs to Civic Arena. We are directly 
across the street at Chatham Center. Free 
parking at the door.
Pittsburgh, PA 15219 
(412) 471-4600
Presented by BJF Development, Inc. on behalf of The Prudential Insurance Company of America.

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 11
WALT DISNEY’S • FANTASIA
IIASFJIIINIIII IIWÌINALS(X Nl)THALK Ift LB #>< *J)STI NO MNKI 
(LATI ¡WINK Ì A NEW STEHB > SU INI HWV'K U »NI HUTKI > I ft I RUIN N MAL nCllOOLSY STI ( )WK ¡INAI- S< X INI rrKALK AU« !M AVAII Alili ( IN tttlLNA VLSÏA KI C( Hfl *i
Kl Kt.Li.AMI » Uï ULLNAVtSIA UKIttULIXJN Qi. LM IÜ.HNK.1 >U *¦ -, .NKMXIMVU DbNL> IKUOLlHUNb
G GfNBtAl AUDIENCESCB
\o\\ 687-1234
<*ON*°€V!Uf gS
CINEMA 22
lllp OAKLANO
« KINGS COURT
¦ Monro#v,ll* 373-1113 I¦ 3$07 Forb«s Avt. 682-2334 |
At 7:30 and 9:45At 7:15 and 9:30
poyu ay,Cgo Cy,4b CH bCmug-Cb f- uHo3 VHom3
By PATH CARLISLE
Tartan StaffwriUrr
“When I was a student here, my feelings 
of CMU were it was like a freeze-dried expe­
rience; no fluff. It was too much hard-core 
studying,” began Brad Walter, acting dean 
of Student Affairs.
Walter, class of ’70, was the guest speaker 
at last Thursday’s Dorm Talk in Donner 
Hall. He explained that Student Affairs 
involves health service, counseling and 
advising, student activities, foreign student 
advisors, emergency loans, disciplinary 
issues, Freshman Orientation, fraternities 
and sororities, and Student Advocacy work.
The acting dean of Student Affairs, who 
has only had the position since the begin­
ning of this year, said, “My challenge is to 
create a better quality of life.” However, to 
do that requires a change of attitude, pers­
pective and perception. Change — any 
change — takes time, he said.
One change Walter would like to begin is 
to get Student Affairs out of Warner Hall, 
where it does not belong. He would like to
Foreign study
Again for 1982 — both spring and fall 
term as well as for the university year 1983- 
84 — the CEEU is offering a number of 
small grants to qualified students who wish 
to study at the Universite de Paris or at the 
Universidad de Madrid.
Students must enroll in either the Paris 
program or the Madrid program of Aca­
demic Year Abroad, Inc., whose admissions 
committee will judge the qualifications and 
make the awards. The grants are paid in the 
currency of the country to students in good 
standing.
get his office much more visible to the stu­
dents. He wants students to be more 
involved in Student Affairs, and to talk to 
him and join committees. He said, “I see my 
role as the arm that grabs what happens 
outside to the students and takes it back into 
Warner administration to make changes.”
Another area Walter said he would like to 
change is the role of academic advisors. He 
wants to address the problems of advisors 
and strengthen that program.
Walter said computers and tuition seem 
to be the two issues on campus this year. He 
admitted, concerning the personal compu­
ters, the administration made a big mistake 
by not telling the students or faculty what 
was happening. “I think all our feelings 
were hurt. We were denied. I felt cheated. 
Something happened to our world and we 
didn’t know.”
However, he added the administration 
honestly thought the students were more 
aware of what was happening than they 
actually were. The administration, accord­
ing to W’alter, was really shocked the stu-
available
Application to only one country is 
allowed in any one semester, but a student 
competent in both French and Spanish may 
apply for one semester in Madrid and the 
next in Paris or vice versa. For Paris an 
applicant must have attained admissibility 
to junior year or higher.
To apply, send two 20C stamps and a 
letter giving the following personal infor­
mation: (1) full name; (2) current address; (3) 
college name and location; (4) year and 
major, (5) number of years erf French or 
Spanish, to: C.E.E.U., P.O. Box 95, New 
Paltz, NY 12561.
dents were so upset. Walter noted there is a 
forum today at 4:30 in the Wherret Room to 
discuss the “Future of Computing at 
CMU.”
Walter generally believed the tuition rally 
on Friday was a good idea. He commented 
students should get together and make a 
statement if they feel that strongly about an 
issue. However, he was concerned students 
were protesting just because they didn’t like 
the tuition raise and not because they were 
demanding more information on the issue.
He also noted the bad timing of this rally, 
since the tuition committee finalized the 
decision for next year’s tuition raise last year. 
He promised, though, this year’s tuition 
committee (for ’84 -’85) would involve sev­
eral more students than were on last year’s 
committee.
One student mentioned the issue of CMU 
Health Service, located in D Tower of More- 
wood Gardens. The students at length dis­
cussed the poor service provided by Health 
Service, inconvenient hours, the fact they are 
not open on weekends, lack of attention, 
incompetence, etc.
Walter replied he went over to Health 
Service two weeks ago and gave the doctors a 
list erf 100 questions to answer concerning 
service and availability. He said, “What I 
hear you saying is you want me to shake up 
Health Service. It’s not going to be ignored; 
I can promise you that I’ve started to estab­
lish an issue — to make myself unpopular 
over at Health Service.”
Another student asked why Security takes 
weekend cases and emergencies to Shadyside 
Hospital, which is known for its slowness 
and red tape. Walter responded CMU has a 
contract with Shadyside, running through 
July 1983. The contract provides student
Carnegie Mellon Freshmen
Some of our classrooms 
aren’t classrooms.
BRAD WALTER
hospital care, for which the university pays, 
after Health Service hours and for cases that 
can’t be taken care of at Health Service. Wal­
ter added the administration is considering 
switching to Presbyterian Hospital when 
the present contract with Shadyside ends.
The final question concerned two univer­
sity facilities: Skibo and a new gym. Walter 
announced, “We’re going to make major 
changes on Skibo. Whether or not we’re 
getting rid of the gray matter hasn’t been 
determined yet. We’re getting lots erf student 
input into that”
He added that Student Affairs and the 
adminstration are considering closing in the 
patios in front and back and creating some 
type of lounge area for students. He also 
wants to “do something — anything — 
with the Tartan Grill.”
When asked about a new gym, Walter 
responded that chances are very likely CMU 
will soon be building a new gymnasium. 
However, the administration has not yet 
decided where this new gymnasium will be 
located.
An environment that challenges your 
physical and mental skills will be your 
classroom in Army ROTC.
Rappelling, Orienteering, Rifle 
Marksmanship, Survival Techniques, 
Mountaineering, Adventure Training 
Exercises.
You’ll find an excellent opportunity 
for leadership development, as well as 
adventure training.
BE ALL YOU CAN BE
When you pre-register for Spring 
Semester, include one of the no 
military obligation courses listed below 
and add a new dimension of excitement 
and adventure to your campus life.
Students learn the art of rappelling at 
McConnell's Mill State Park.
SURVIVAL TECHNIQUES
30-204 3 units M i n erThiTreh
B - W 4:30-5:20
An introductory course designed to enable the 
student to recognize and effectively handle a 
survival situation. Instruction includes deter­
mining directions; finding and preparing food 
and water; constructing traps, snares and im­
provised shelters; first aid for snake and insect 
bites; and overcoming obstacles.
INDIVIDUAL SKILLS
30-205 3 units A - M 4:30-6:00
B - Th 11:30-1 KN) 
C - By Appointment
The first half of the course provides an in­
troduction to rifle marksmanship techniques 
using the .22 caliber competition rifle. The sec­
ond half of the course provides an introduction 
to the sport of orienteering, which is a com­
bination of cross-country running and land 
navigation using a topographical map and 
compass.
For answers to questions concerning these or other Military Science courses, contact the 
Military Science Department, MMC B-7, 578-2205.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
winners by design
Women's
Health
Services
625 STANWDC ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 5621900
By PATTI CARLISLE
Tartan Staffwritrr
Doug Van Houweling, Vice Provost of 
Computing and in charge of university 
planning, spoke to students on Thursday, 
October 14 about computing at CMU. As 
part of the Student Affairs-sponsored Dorm 
Talks, this discussion occurred in Donner 
Hall’s lounge.
Van Houweling answered several student 
questions that night, including questions 
about an undergraduate degree in computer 
science, personal computers, computing 
and the fine arts, a better freshman introduc­
tion to computing, “garbage” computing, 
and a library' computer tied to the main 
system.
As Vice Provost of Computing, Van Hou­
weling is in charge of the computer science 
center but not the computer science pro­
gram. In his role in university planning, he 
sets up the processes so that decisions can be 
made, but he doesn’t do the actual planning.
He began the discussion by announcing, 
“I’m really here to answer your questions 
and to explain as best as I can some things 
that are happening in computing here on 
campus.”
The first student asked when, if ever, the 
university was going to establish a separate 
degree in computer science. Van Houwel­
ing answered that although the computer 
science department has put together a com­
mittee to study this issue, they haven’t yet 
come dose to a conclusion.
He said that in the past the department 
hesitated to offer a degree because they 
weren’t sure if computer science was an aca­
demic discipline. Now they want to develop 
a trend-setting program because many peo­
ple are unhappy with computer science cur-
riculums across the country. However, he 
said, “I can’t make any real statements on 
this subject, but I would suppose at least two 
or three years.”
The next student asked that infamous 
question, “What about personal compu­
ters?” Since this Dorm Talk occurred before 
CMU signed the contract with IBM, much 
of Van Houweling’s answers were “iffy and 
I-Don’t-Know.” He explained that 
although CMU would probably soon sign 
an agreement to start developing a software 
system, in no way would that agreement be 
binding.
The administration probably won’t 
decide whether each student has to buy a 
personal computer until 1984. Van Houwel­
ing said, “I want to try to get as much stu­
dent input into that as possible. I think 
students will have a voice in that decision.”
Van Houweling stressed that he is willing 
to talk to students about the personal com­
puting issue or anything else involving 
computers. “My user ID is DH6Q on all 
systems. You send mail and it 
me. I’m happy to get mail 
lems concerning computing.”
Justifying the personal computers, Van 
Houweling explained that CMU wants to 
provide the students with tools that will 
help them become better students by giving 
them better use of their time. “If we can 
increase your ability to get work done by 
only 10%,” Van Houweling said, “then these 
personal cStnputers will pay for 
themselves.”
He continued, “I’m very concerned that 
we don’t change the composition of the stu­
dent body. I think we really need to stress the 
benefits of computers to social sciences and 
fine arts. I don’t want the personal oompu-
ters to give us a predominantly technical- 
only student body.”
Another student asked how much com­
puter development and the computation 
center affect tuition. Van Houweling re­
plied that approximately 1% of your tuition 
goes toward computing. He noted that 
although other universities spend as much
xth,hne $a6
Donald Starver
on computing, they don’t provide tire stu­
dents with the same quality computing 
experience. “It’s true,” Van Houweling said, 
“that most other universities still punch 
cards and get the results out on a line 
printer/’
One student asked about “gaiWge com­
puting — courses that waste time using the 
computer as a tool and not for program­
ming.” Van Houweling replied that 
although scone classes might “waste” com­
puter time, he thinks it is good for all stu­
dents to leam to use the computer as a tool. 
He explained that he doesn’t select which 
classes get computer time. Each college dean 
gets a specific amount of computer money 
and that dean distributes the money among 
departments and courses. •
Van Houweling was really excited about 
the future of computing in the fine arts. He 
presented several examples: drama being 
completely staged (set, lights, choreography, 
costumes, etc.) on the computer before the 
actors even set foot upon the stage; artists 
and graphic designers continuing to create 
art work; visual jazz, in which a group of 
artists on separate terminals continually add 
their individual ideas to a group picture; 
and even new art forms. He noted, “Our 
Fine Arts school can be right on the front 
edge of all this.”
SIGN UP FOR CAMPUS INTERVIEWS NOVEMBER 12
Doug Van Houweling 
explains computers
RESOURCES
Al tntel, you will nave access to the most modem design and manufacturing 
aids available today, many of which we^e designed by Intel engineers Of equal 
mportance you will find access to whatever level of management you need to get the 
joo done The formula works1 It resulted tn the first semiconductor memory 
and recently we introduced the computer on a chtp the highly integrated 
16-bit microprocessors, state-of-the-art systems products and the world's highest 
density EPROM What will be next9 You might have the answer 
Make the Intel formula work for you Talk to Intel soon 
Element #2: ENVIRONMENT
ABORTION 
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL
COUNSELING

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 13
D %oftb
Sung to the melody of the patriotic,
“My Country tis of thee ”
My University 
Wants only money 
Of it I sing
I can’t buy food or clothes 
Kleenex to blow my nose 
This happened when tuition rose 
Hope it doesn’t snow
Sam Cohen and Patrick Dominguez provide protest music for the tuition rally, including their version of “My Country Tis of Thee:’
Sung to the melody of the classic,
4 “The answer is blowing in the Wind.”
How many times must the hot water be turned off
Before they let it run free ----------------
And how many times must the refrigerator be bare 
Before the Adminstration will see 
Yes how many times will tuition increase
Before the increase will cease Amid marching tunes from
(chorus) tuba, students made the
The Answer my friend feelings known.
Is Lower Tuition 
The answer is Lower Tuition 
How many schools are there in Massachusetts
Hiat we always compare ourselves to __________
/j]d how many times must the students all ask 
Where else i7^ht 1 transfer to 
Now how long can the S£!dent exist 
In a system that just doesn’t care 
(Chorus)
Students oppose Cyert's plansChanting, singing.and throwing
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph a
night before it was held.
The head of the tuition committee, Fred 
Rogers, said the rally’s point was well taken, 
but asked, “Where were all the protesters 
when the decision was being made?” Of the 
two students who were on the tuition com­
mittee, none proposed a freeze, and some 
favored an even larger increase. Rogers 
agreed, “If only three students show up it’s a 
joke. If three hundred show up it’s no joke.” 
But even with student concern, tuition will
cookies
still “probably not go up less than 10%” in 
’84-’85.
“When we compare our tuition with 
schools like MIT, we aren’t saying we have 
to keep up with them to get admissions,” he 
said. “That’s not true at all. But we’ve got to 
look at whether they’ll be able to offer more 
to their students for the extra money.” The 
increase won’t bring sudden changes, he 
added. “It’s gradual improvement over 
time.”
The decision to raise tuition from $6300 
to $7500 for the ’83-’84 school year was made 
last spring, and the tuition committee will 
be meeting this month to plan tuition for 
1984-85. The current tuition of some of 
CMU’s competitors are: Cornell, $7050; 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
$7400; Harvard, $7490; and Brandeis, $7650.
A cardboard model of a terminal was 
burned at the end of the rally, in reference to 
the contract signed between CMU and IBM. 
The fire was extinguished by Walter.
At the end of the rally, which lasted just 
under an hour, Solano urged everyone to 
come to the administration’s explanation of 
the tuition increase November 11 at 4:30. 
“They won’t be able to fit us in the bal­
lroom,” he said.
Solano seems to be enjoying the rally as much 
as the student body. “We’re not getting Dick 
today,” he said. Above right: Student 
sold apples as a publicity stunt, they said, 
help them afford tuition.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
i;» ijijijujjMi u.-'X' w wwu>photo by Kathleen Drazenovich
Pros and cons of flat rate tax
Time is ripe for Congress to change tax system
CREATIVE 
FREEDOM
In the age of information technology, a company 
—whose sales of $1.7 billion annually and whose 
products and components extend from data acqui­
sition and information processing through data 
communication to voice, video and graphic com­
munication — is making creative freedom a reality 
for their new graduates.ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
khMh,yhP Ae9 hnN de9
Electrical, Civil, Industrial and Mechanical 
Engwieehng, Applied Mathematics and Computer 
Science Majors 
Make arrangements at the Placement Office.
(3J HARRIS
cn xGTst WwwiPeTnev x,wtivhPH Dz­z‘zj
- ,Lu t, .................
By David Gustin
There is bipartisan support in Congress 
for a need to change the existing progressive 
tax system. Congress agrees that the present 
structure needs amending but disagrees on 
the wide number of alternatives 
to reconstruct it.
What got Congress’s atten­
tion is simple: years of inflation 
have pushed taxpayers into higher tax 
brackets, a process called “bracket creep.” 
To avoid paying such a high percentage of 
taxes, taxpayers have stashed billions of dol­
lars away in legal tax shelters. As the tax base 
(the total amount of dollars available to be 
taxed by the Government) erodes, higher tax 
rates are needed to maintain revenues. Poli­
ticians know that high rates do not sit well 
with their constituents. And angry voters 
equals a lost seat in Congress.
The problem with the present tax system 
is that it pays for people in high brackets not 
to maximize their earnings, by purchasing 
tax shelters (anything that results in a reduc­
tion or elimination of taxes due, such as an 
IRA account) that lowers their taxable 
income. Citizens in lower tax brackets who 
don’t share the burden of the tax load cry out 
that a system with loopholes that lets people 
minimize their taxes at the expense of max­
imizing earning is ludicrous. The tens of 
billions stashed away in legal tax shelters
could be used to make investments in plants, 
equipment, cars, houses, etc. that would 
help industries. The people in high tax 
brackets who shoulder the majority of the 
tax burden believe the present system is 
unfair. Should a person be required to pay 
40 times more in taxes because he/she earns 
15 times more in income?
The most popular idea to rectify these 
problems among both liberals and conserva­
tives is the flat-rate tax. The idea is simple. A 
flat-rate tax would make all taxpayers pay 
an equal percentage of their income in taxes. 
If someone makes 10 times as much income, 
they would pay 10 times as much in taxes. 
The proposal would eliminate all deduc­
tions and exemptions. Some of the deduc­
tions and exemptions that would be 
abolished include: deductibility of interest 
on a home; capital gains and/or losses; state 
and local taxes; and medical expenses. 
Doing away with these exclusions would hit 
hardest at the middle- to upper-level 
incomes.
The idea seems equitable enough, but 
there are problems with it. The distribution 
of the tax burden would shift; the poor and 
middle class would pay a much larger share 
and the upper middle class would assume 
less of a share. In 1979, 5% of the taxpayers 
with the highest incomes paid 37% of all 
income taxes. This percentage would
photo by Bob Fishel
The brothers of Theta Xi welcomed Physical Plant to the empty fraternity house recendy.
Students were hiding behind both books and masks this weekend.Robots aid in industry
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph a
The second proposal, according to Berg, 
is for the promotion of “entrapreneurial 
development.” This program, which has 
not yet been named, will focus on conduct­
ing research with local industries, job train­
ing and re-training and funding to students 
and members of the community who want 
to start their own businesses.
Its objectives are both to assist in the revi­
talization of local industry in Pittsburgh 
and to encourage more faculty participation 
in local businesses.
Jack Thome of GSLA is in charge of 
obtaining funding for the program. The | 
Mellon Foundation will provide the initial 
funding, with grants from other industries 
to follow.
tr« ENGINEERING STUDENTS $$^\
The Air Force's College Senior 
Engineer Program (CSEP) will assist 
you financially during the last year 
of undergraduate or graduate studies.
The CSEP program allows you to 
join the Air Force while still in 
school and receive more than $900 
per month in pay and allowances plus 
full Air Force benefits. After you 
graduate and complete Officer Train­
ing School, you'll receive a commis­
sion as an Air Force Engineering 
Officer.
For more information, contact 
Sgt. Bob Winterhalter at 644-2705.
All freshman and sophomore engin­
eering students and juniors planning 
a graduate program should see the 
AFROTC Professor of Aerospace 
Studies or contact the AFROTC 
Admissions Counselor, Major 
btanger at 624-6038._I/ï\JÏÏ
7?rnu
c GPhie way of Dh
undoubtedly decrease with a flat-rate tax.
Also, the subsidy the Government pro­
vides to the housing industry by allowing 
deductions of interest on mortgages would 
be taken away by not allowing any exemp­
tions. Taking the subsidy away would cause 
demand to slacken for homebuilding. The 
construction business, and the economy’s 
health in general would suffer. Contribu­
tions to charity would decrease as people no 
longer would get a deduction for it. Finally, 
the progressive tax system is deeply 
embedded with us; any drastic change 
would be chaotic, since many investments 
would be rendered ineffective.
An alternative to the present system is 
necessary, but a flat-rate tax does not seem 
feasible or realistic. The first requirement 
for a better plan would be to phase it in over
time. Secondly, allow exemptions to be kept 
that contribute to the economy’s wellbeing 
or provide for the welfare of its citizens- 
.These include contributions to charities 
and deductibility of interest on homes. 
Exemptions would also be allowed for busi­
nesses training unskilled labor. It is exemp­
tions like these that allow American 
standards to be raised in the long run.
Provisions must also be put in to protea 
the poor. My idea is to have “limited pro- 
gressivity,” i.e., tax the poor at a flat rate of 
10%, the rich at 20%. In addition, provide an 
exemption for the individual’s first $5000 of 
income plus $1000 for each dependent. This 
would decrease the burden on the poor.
David M. Gustin is a junior majoring in 
Information Systems/Managerial Econom­
ics and is a columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Profile: Student Activities' Witchner
"CMU has always been avant-garde; even to this day
WW
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Anne R. Witchner always seems to be 
doing something; either she’s busy at her 
desk, preparing rooms in Skibo for lectures 
or parties, or rushing somewhere to coordi­
nate, arrange, or advise activities. Her work, 
as the ’73 CMU alumnus explains, “comes 
in ebbs and flows.” Whenever I see her, her 
schedule certainly seems to be ot^rflowing.
As the Director of Student Activities, she is 
in charge of Skibo’s building management 
and schedules conferences, meetings, and 
seminars in non-Food Service areas like the 
Highlander or Ballroom. “We try to make 
Skibo as large a multi-purpose base as possi­
ble,” Anne said. One room could conceiva­
bly be used three times in one day; Anne’s 
responsibility is to make sure that the tables 
and chairs are in order for each function and 
the room is generally presentable. “Every 
day,” she added, “something is going on in 
Skibo.”
She considers student affairs as a conglo­
meration of resource people who wear “a lot 
of hats.” It’s the type of job where she 
“wouldn’t feel comfortable^ wearing suits, 
but yet I don’t wear jeans.” Students are 
constantly approaching the Information 
Desk about every facet of the school and city; 
the Activities staff directs and advises inquir­
ers. More activity takes place behind the 
scenes (or, in this case, behind the Desk) 
than one would imagine.
Ms. Witchner, who majored in English 
Literature at CMU and received her master’s 
degree in “Student Personal Services” from 
the University of South Carolina three years 
later, advises the Activities Board, Student 
Dorm Council, Scotch-n-Soda, and Sweep­
stakes, to name only a few. She is responsible
for CMU s "pre-college” program held here 
during the summer, a job which she says she 
adores. The Clash was recently able to per- 
from here because her signature was on the 
contract. Providing the proper CMU 
security was on hand at the concert was also 
under her direction.
Acts sponsored by AB are “bought” at 
conventions, like the one which Anne (who 
is in charge of this convention’s promotion 
and publicity) and student-members of AB 
will be attending in Louisville from Sunday 
through tomorrow. During the conference, 
actual live stage acts are showcased and six
segments of educational segments are 
offered where students are taught about cof­
feehouses and lectures. The conference’s 
official title, the National Association of 
Campus Activities (NACA), is an organiza­
tion that brings together staff, students, and 
entertainers.
Chris Bliss, a juggler who was billed 
along with “Animal House” at the begin­
ning of the semester, was “bought” at a 
similar convention. “It’s much cheaper to 
buy these people at the conferences along 
with other schools than for one school to 
buy him,” Witchner explains. At these con­
Anne R. Witchner, Director of Student Affairs
ventions, students are able to go directly to 
agents about tickets prices for movies, lec­
tures, or bands, and can then “block-book” 
them.
“Students here are really sophisticated to 
put those things together. I’m really lucky to 
have such talented people here and I have 
seen alot of other schools so I can be pretty 
objective,” stated Witchner.
During her two-year graduate program at 
the University of South Carolina, the 
Youngstown, Ohian had an assistantship 
with student activities and also coordinated 
the women’s IM program there. She is also 
involved with the IM program at CMU and 
plays tennis.
The biggest change that Anne has seen 
after 10 years is the success of dances. “They 
used to have TGIF dances on Friday’s and 
they were dead. They just lacked something. 
The Common Grounds parties are much 
better; I’m really impressed by the fact that 
everyone has so much fun without alcohol,” 
she said. She feels the dances have improved 
because the chair people have changed and 
because there has been a pooling of efforts 
and resources concentrated on just a few 
major dances during the year. “I’m amazed 
at how hard students work at their chair­
manship and leadership capacities in addi­
tion to keeping up with school work. But 
CMU has always been avant-garde, even to 
this day,” Anne commented. “It’s not a com­
mercial school; it’s real eclectis with all 
kinds if tastes. It represents a real 
microcosm.”
Her nature is to be very organized. She is 
very dedicated to her job, which she feels 
entails “being here for the students. What I 
am,” Anne summarizes, “is sort erf likea high 
school advisor but I do it all the time.”
Attitudes on Alcohol" begins seriesDr. Twersky says alcoholism cannot be concealed
By MONICAL SAFRIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr. Abraham Twersky of the Department 
Of Psychiatry at St. Francis Hospital spoke 
about “Attitudes on Alcohol” last Thursday 
at CMU. His talk marked the official begin­
ning of the Alcohol Awareness Program 
being sponsored by the Department of Stu­
dent Activities.
“Denial is a crucial factor in attitudes 
toward alcohol,” said Dr. Twersky. People 
must have a sense of awareness before the 
“cockeyed attitudes of the culture” may be 
changed. His discussion of denial showed 
how it makes the problem of alcoholism — 
as well as the problems caused by addiction
to any mind-altering chemical — impossi­
ble to solve.
Individuals may deny that they are alco­
holics on the grounds that alcoholics don’t 
have jobs, own homes, or drive nice cars. 
“They have a ‘not me’ attitude,” Twersky 
said, meaning that these individuals believe 
it impossible that they have any problem 
with alcohol. What is important for them to 
know, continued Twersky, is that “every 
human being is vulnerable.”
Dr. Twersky spoke at length about alcoh­
olism (and drug addiction) among doctors 
and nurses. These people may never seek 
help because “people whose livelihoods
depend on licensure are especially afraid to 
admit that they are alcoholics.” The prob­
lem of denial is compounded by the fact that 
historically, certain medical groups and hos­
pitals have refused to acknowledge the possi­
bility that large numbers of physicians and 
nurses could be addicted to drugs. Dr. 
Twersky told of a hospital administration 
which would not permit the establishment 
of a hotline for nurses who had problems 
with drugs because it was afraid of the 
implications it would have, especially in 
liability suits. “That hospital was saying,
‘Hey nurses, go ahead and die from addic­
tion. Go wreck your careers.’ ”
Dr. Twersky is the author of the book, 
Caution: “Kindness” Can Be Dangerous to 
the Alcoholic, which defines “kindness” as 
the stupid, well-meaning things that people 
do to cover-up alcoholism. Denying the 
problem won’t help the alcoholic or the 
people around him; it won’t make the prob­
lem go away. Denial is futile, because as Dr. 
Twersky said: “You can’t conceal a drug 
problem any more than you can conceal a 
pregnancy.”
Future Tartans on computers?
Nwspa
OJIlM&AISRr
_¦---:----------------.1 _
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Some of the items I have reprinted from 
the past may seem hopelessly archaic by 
now, but just think how people of the 
future will look at the Tartans of today. I 
can imagine somebody in the year 2082 
looking over old issues on microfilm, or 
in a computer mdnofy ljarik, of however 
they read newspapers then, and coming 
across this column. If you guys in 2082 
are reading this, hi there!
10 YEARS AGO: Oct. 31,1972
(The microfilm copies of Tartans from 
that year are in negative, which prints 
atrociously on the reader-printer. I can 
barely read it! Ah well, they don’t make 
microfilm like they used to.)
“In the place where there once was a 
drugstore at 5200 Forbes Avenue there is 
now the CMU Student Gallery. Because 
of the cost to the university, the Gallery 
may be closed next year as part of the 
university’s policy to save money at all
IJiuid oLa ^bctL
you think about it; saving moeny at all 
cost.
50 YEARS AGO: Nov. 1, 1932 
The results of the presidential straw 
vote were in, and Herbert Hoover was the 
winner. Among the students, Hoover 
received 808 votes, Roosevelt received 
421, ahd the So&aHst candidate Thomas 
received 626, also beating Roosevelt, who 
was the ultimate winner of the electi­
on.The results were similar with the 
faculty. And, on a national basis, surveys 
in 47 colleges showed Hoover in the lead, 
although southern colleges tended to 
favor Roosevelt. It seems from this and 
from the equally erroneous pick of 
McGovern against Nixon in 1972, that 
college students and faculty are not a 
representative sample of the American 
public.
55 YEARS AGO: Nov. 1, 1927 
“Without any letup from the hard pace 
of the last three weeks, Carnegie Tech’s 
grid team will meet another hard oppo- 
’ j ___________________ mntintifi on piq» 1|

---------------------------------------------------

FINALS
CARNECIE-MELLON UHI VEIS ITY
Fin»l Ano1 nation Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar Fall 1982-93
rotici
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of finel examinations for the undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exama shall never be uaed for exaa purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to preesures to aove an so thatpeople can leave earlier;
4. no atudent shall be required to take aore than two exaas on a given
finals dsy; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be acheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papera shsll be aade due no later than on the laat day of classes;
7. take-ho— final exaas shall be given for any 24 hour period of the student'achoosing during the final exaa period.
Requests for exceptions to this policy should be aade to Marry p. Whitehead, Registrar.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-110Perspctvs of BiologyFri Dec178:30-11:30DH 111203-114Life Origin EvolutnSat Dec118:30-11:30BH 231, BH 232F03-121Modern BiologyTue Dec141:00-4:00m 10303-240Cell BiologySat Dec115:30-8:30WEH 750003-242Exp Tech Call BlologSat Dec118:30-11:30PH 126A03-243Eai* Tech Gen Hoi BioThu Dec161:00-4:00BH 23103-432Biochemistry IITue Dec148:30-11:30WEH 542703-439Intro to BiophysicsThu Dec168:30-10:30DH 210503-442Molec Bio EukaryotesWed Dec151:00-4:00PH 19C03-609Fensentatlon TchnlgyMon Dec138:30-11:30DH 220003-732Biochemistry IITue Dec148:30-11:30WEH 542703-742Molec Bio EukaryotesWed Dec151:00-4:00PH 19C
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-151TheraodynaaicsTue Dec141:00-4:00WEH 750006-201Chemical Engr IIMon Dec135:30-8:30DH 231506-301Appl Reactn KineticsWed Dec151:00-4:00Ml 14, m 10306-302Process Engr 6 SynthWed Dec158:30-11:30DH 1212, DH 111206-305Proc Dynam & CntrlSat Dec111:00-4:00DH 1112
CHEMISTRY
09-103Atoms Mol Chea ChngFri Dec 171:00-4:00DH210509-105Dynaaics & EquilibSat Dec 118:30-11:30Gregg Hall, DH 1112DH1212, DH 2210,DH2315, WEH 7500,SH12509-106Bonding Struct PrlncFri Dec 171:00-4:00DH121209-117Organic Chea ITue Dec 148:30-11:30DH1212, DH 111209-218Organic Chealstry IITue Dec 148:30-11:30PH20, PH 2109-243Physcl Chealstry IISat Deo 118:30-11:30MM14, IM 10309-405Indus Organic CheaThu Dec 168:30-11:30DH121209-711Adv Organic Chea IMon Dec 138:30-11:30DH212209-721Physcl Inorg ChemTue Dec 148:30-11:30DH1211
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-203Systeas Engr IThu Dec 161:00-4:00PH225C12-207StaticsThu Dec 168:30-11:30PH19A12-320Structural Mech ISat Dec 118:30-11:30PH123B12-330Fluid Mechanics ITue Dec 148:30-11:30PH123B12-623Structural DesignSat Dec 118:30-11:30PH125B12-627Foundation EngrTue Dec 148:30-11:30PH125B12-631Computer Meth in C EMon Dec 138:30-11:30PH123B12-636Envr Engr Air PollutSat Dec 111:00-4:00PH123B12-639Trffc Flow Theo OperWed Dec 158:30-11:30PH123B12-647C E Project SealnarTBA
COMPUTER SCIENCE. - ' >; ;
15-118Intro to Computing CTua Dec 141:00-4:00PH19C
15-211Fund Str Progrmng ITue Dec 141:00-4:00DH231515-212Fund Str Progrmng IISat Dec 118:30-11:30PH 225C15-360Intro Cmptr Aid DeaWed Dec 151:00-4:00DH1112
15-380Intro Artfd IntellSat Dec 111:00-4:00WEH 542715-412Operating SystemsThu Dec 161:00-4:00WEH 5427
15-741Intro Comput DesignMon Dec 138:30-11:30SH125, MM 14
ELECTRICALENGINEERING
18-101Linear Circuit AnalThuDec161:00-4:00DH2315, WEH 7500
18-201Field Analysis EngrThuDec165:30-8:30WEH 7500
18-221Electrnc Circuits IIThuDec161:00-4:00Mf14, I« 103
18-234Computer Structure»MonDec138:30-11:30SH125, MM 14
18-301Fundmntls of ControlWedDec158:30-11:30HH10, HH 11
18-313Engr Measurants TestSatDec111:00-4:00HH11
18-331Semlcndct Dev Appl IThuDec168:30-11:30SH125
18-343Intro Elec MschlnesMonDec131:00-4:00SH212
18-701Electrag Fid TheorySatDec11è:30-11:30PH226A
18-705Mgntsm Mag MemoriesMonDec138:30-11:30PH125C
18-709Network TheoryMonDec138:30-11:30DH1217
18-721Semlcndct Dev App IThuDec168:30-11:30SH125
18-741Intro Comput DesignMonDec138:30-11:30SH125, Mf 14
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19-319Law and the EngineerTueDec145:30-7:30SH125
19-402Telecommunctn PolicyWedDec151:00-3:00SH206
19-422Radlatn Hlth Pub PolSatDec111:00-3:00PH126C
MATHEMATICS
21-105Pre-CalculusTueDec148:30-11:30PH 19C
21-111Calculus ISatDec115:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 2315
21-112Calculus IIWedDec158:30-11:30SH 125
21-121Calculus ITueDec148:30-11:30Cregg Hall, DH 2210,DH 2315, WEH 7500,
21-122Calculus IITue Dec145:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 2315
21-127Dlscr Math Cmptr SclThuDec165:30-8:30SH 125
21-141Captnl Lin AlgebraFriDec178:30-11:30DH 2210
21-257Opts»» Soc Scl ITuaDec148:30-11:30MM 14, m 103
21-259Mthda Appl Math IWedDec15 -8:30-11:30Gregg Hall, DH 2210,
DH 2315, WEH 7500
21-260Mthda Appl Math IIWedDec158:30-11:30MM 14, m 103
21-292Operatiooa ReaearchSatDec115:30-8:30Gregg Hall
21-301CombinatoricsMonDec135:30-8:30WEH 7500
21-341Linear AlgebraTBA
21-369Numerical MethodsTueDec148:30-11:30SH 125, HH 10, HH 11
21-455Advanced CalculusThuDec161:00-4:00WEH 6423
21-461Complex VariableWedDec158:30-11:30WEH 5403
21-473AlgebraMonDec138:30-11:30WEH 5403
21-476Ord Dlff EquationsSatDec111:00-4:00PH 226A
21-551Matheaatcl Logic I ,SatDec118:30-11:30PH 20, PH 21
MECHANICALENGINEERING
24-102Statics Dfrm SolidsSatDec11830-11:30SH324, SH422
24-112Fluid Mechanics ITueDec14830-11:30SH206
24-121Thermodynamica ITueDec14100-4:00SH125, HH10,HH11, m 14
24-202Mech Dfrmbl SolidsTueDec14830-11:30SH212, SH220,
SH224, SH324
24-20«Menfactur SciencesSatDec11100-4:00SH220, SH224
24-213Viscous FlowWedDec15100-4:00SH422
24-223Thermodynamics II Sec.ABWedDec15830-11:30SH206, SH212
CDWedDec15830-11:30SH220, SH224, SH
24-224Thermal Systems AnalSatDec11830-11:30SH206
24-233Heat Transfer Sec.AThuDec16100-4:00HH10
BThuDec16100-4:00HH11
24-245Dynamics Physcl SystASatDec11830-11:30SH212
BSatDec11830-11:30SH220
CSatDec11830-11:30SH224
24-249Dynamics 4 VlbratnaTueDec14830-11:30SH¿22
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
27-105Materials TechnologyTueDec148:30-11:30DH 1209
27-131Materials Science Sec.AThu Dec168:30-11:30WEH 7500
BThuDec168:30-11:30DH A317
CThuDec168:30-11:30WEH 5403
27-211Thermodynamlcs IMonDec131:00-4:00WEH 7500
27-313Thermodynamics IIWedDec158:30-11:30DH A317
27-331Physcl Metallurgy IThuDec161:00-4:00SH 125
27-529Mdrn Steelmkng ProcSatDec118:30-11:30DH A317
PHYSICS
33-115Introductory PhyalcsWedDec158:30-11:30BH 231
33-121Physlcs I MechanicsMonDec138:30-11.: 30Gregg Hall, DH 1112
DH 1212. DH 2210,’ v. •DH 2315, WEH 7500,
PH 19A, PH 19C, PH
33-122Physlcs II Ht Wv OptWedDec151:00-4:00SH 125
33-123Physlcs III Elee MagWedDec151:00-4:00Cregg Hall, DH 2210DH -2315, WEH 7500
33-127Physlcs III Hnrs E1 MagMonDec138:30-11:30HH 10, HH 11
33-130Physcl Mechanics IFriDec171:00-4:00WEH 7500
33-435Modani Physlcs IISetDec118:30-11:30PH 19C
33-441Thermodynamic sMonDec131:00-4:00WEH 7316
33-449Electronics IIWedDec151:00-4:00WEH 5427
33-453Intermediste OptlcaMonDec138:30-11:30WEH 6423
33-463Special RelatlvltyMonDec138:30-11:30WEH 8427
33-710Prlnc InatrumentetnSatDec118:30-11:30WEH 5403
33-755Quantum Mechanica ISatDec118:30-11:30WEH 5427
33-757Classics1 MechanicsMonDec138:30-11:30WEH 5427
33-759Intro Theo Phya ITueDec148:30-11:30WEH 8427
33-765Statlstcl MechanicsSetDec118:30-11:30WEH 7316
33-769Quantum Mechncs IIIMonDec138:30-11:30WEH 7316
STATISTIC:»
36-209Prb App Sta Mg SS IWedDec155:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 2315
36-211Prb App St Ph S&E IWedDec155:30-8:30WEH 7500
36-215Probablllty Stat IWedDec155:30-8:30DH 1212, HH 10
36-217Prb Random ProcessSatDec118:30-11:30HH 10, HH 11
36-221Qu Cntrl Ind Stat ITueDec148:30-11:30WEH 6423
BIOMEDICALENGINEERING
42-500PhysiologyTueDec145:30-8:30WEH 5427
42-735PhysiologyTueDec145:30-8:30WEH 5427

---------------------------------------------------

G ro tnt.CT '»i 3"
' -"'^4SCHEDULE
I
, *» _-... m *r
-4
ARCHITECTURE
i i.» ¦ ... wL.j y-. 'Æ
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE (continued)
48-142Design EconomicsMonDec138:30-11:30PH 225C70-121Accounting IATueDec145:30-8:30PH125C
48-160Basic Cnc Pts In ArcMonDec138:30-10:30PH 225BBTueDec145:30-8:30PH125D
48-162Intro Archtctrl HistMonDec138:30-10:30CFA 206CTueDec145:30-8:30PH126B
48-342Intro Cmptr Aid DesSatDec118:30-11:30PH 125DDTueDec145:30-8:30BH131
48-364Medieval ArchitectMonDec-138:30-10:30HL SeeETueDec145:30-8:30PH126C
48-366French Arc 1650-1789TueDec148:30-10:30CFA 20670-150Fndmntls InsuranceMonDec135:30-8:30BH231
48-380Cap Exam Indep StudySatDec118:30-11:30PH 19A70-160Intro Gra Cmnctns IThuDec165:30-8:30BH131
48-382Words & SurroundingsWedDec158:30-10:30HL Sets70-192Graph Commun Proc ISatDec118:30-11:30PH226C
48-386Urban NeighborhoodsWedDec158:30-11:30PH 126A70-258Optimization IITueDec141:00-4:00BH131
48-388Architect In HousingTueDec1410:30-12:30CFA 20670-311Orgnztnl Behavior IAThuDec161:00-4:00BH131BThuDec161:00-4:00PH225BDThuDec161:00-4:00PH126CDRAMA70-332Government & BusinessThuDec168:30-11:30HH10, HH70-335Business and LaborFriDec171:00-4:00DH2315
54-125Music Work ShopTueDec148:30-11:30HL LR70-363Law ln Mdrn Amer SocAFriDec171:00-4:00DH2210
54-475ManagementSatDec118:30-11:30BH 131BFriDec171:00-4:00DH221070-371Production IMonDec131:00-4:00PH19C70-381Marketing IASatDec111:00-4:00PH225CMUSICBSatDec111:00-4:00BH13170-422Coat AccountingWedDec151:00-4:00DH1212
57-109Elementary TheoryFriDec171:00-2:00CFA 16070-471Production IITueDec148:30-11:30BH131
57-151Harmony IMonDec138:30-10:30m 10370-491Finance IIMonDec138:30-11:30SH206
57-153Harmony IIWadDec158:30-10:30CFA 16070-520Publicity Public RelWedDec158:30-11:30BH131
57-161Eurythmies ISatDec118:30-10:30m 11970-631Graph Commun MatlaSatDec118:30-11:30PH226B
57-163Eurythmies IIMonDec138:30-10:30MM 11970-633Grsph Cmnctns Sem ITueDec148:30-11:30PH226C
57-173History of Music IThuDec165:30-7:30CFA 16070-637Cmptr Grphcs CmnctnsSatDec115:30-8:30SH220
57-175Solfage Mus Thea ISatDec119:30-10:30MM 127
57-177Solfege Mus Thea IIMonDec138:30-9:30MM 127
57-181Solfege ISatDec111:00-3:00m 127ECONOMICS
57-183Solfege IIThuDec168:30-10:30Mf 127
57-203History of Music IIMonDec135:30-7:30CFA 16073-100Prlnc of EconomicsA-HSatDec111:00-4:00DH2315
57-25516th Cen CounterpartTuaDec148:30-10:30CFA 157ISatDec111:00-4:00PH125B
57-257Orchestration ISatDec111:00-2:00CFA 157JSatDec111:00-4:00PH125C
57-265FugueMonDec138:30-9:30CFA 157KSatDec111:00-4:00PH125D
57-271Orcheatratlon IIMonDec1310:30-11:30CFA 157LSatDec111:00-4:00PH126A
57-332Intro to ConductingMonDec131:00-2:00CFA ACHMSatDec111:00-4:00PH126B
57-407Form and AnalysisThuDec161:00-3:00HL LR73-250Intermed MicroeconACMonDec138:30-11:30BH231
57-422English DictionTueDec148:30-9:30CFA 160BMonDec138:30-11:30PH126B
57-423French DictionSatDec118:30-9:30(M 116DMonDec138:30-11:30PH126C
57-447Score ReadingTueDec1410:30-11:30CFA 157EMonDec138:30-11:30BH131
57-610Contra-Harm Tch 18thMonDec138:30-9:30CFA 16073-300Intermed MacroeconAMonDec131:00-4:00BH131
57-724French DictionSatDec118:30-9:30MM 116BMonDec131:00-4:00DH1209
57-901Intro to Grad StudMonDec138:30-10:30HL LR73-340Labor EconomicsTueDec141:00-4:00WEH 5403
57-917Span Mus 17th-18th CWedDec1510:30-11:30HL LR73-358Econ Envrn Natur ResMonDec138:30-11:30PH125D73-365Industrl OrganlzatnMonDec138:30-11:30PH125B73-370Internatl EconomicsFriDec178:30-11:30BH231ADMINISTRATION ANDMANAGEMENTSCIENCE
70-101Elem Industri AdminA WedDec155:30-8:30PH 225CH&SSINTERDISCIPLINARYPROGRAM
B WedDec155:30-8:30BH 13166-202Reac Prot MetternichWedDec151:00-4:00PH225C(continued)66-211Golden Age of GreeceFriDec178:30-11:30BH235B
ENGLISH
76-101Fiction and FactAMonDec135:30-8:30PH 19A
BCMonDec135:30-8:30SH 125
D„MonDec135:30-8:30PH 19C
76-230Bblcl Myth Bkgrd LitSatDec111:00-4:00HH 10
76-231Rites of PassageTueDec145:30-8:30PH 107B
76-241Lit Trad Major PoetsSatDec118:30-11:30BH 255B
76-244ShakespeareACThuDec165:30-8:30-¦ BH 231
BThuDec165:30-8:30BH 229B
DThuDec165:30-8:30BH 235B
76-341The Augustan AgeWedDec151:00-4:00BH 255B
76-342Victorian WritersMonDec131:00-4:00BH 235A
76-351American RenaissanceSatDec115:30-8:30BH 235B
76-371Rheter Soc InteractnTuaDec148:30-11:30BH 235A
76-419Comput 6 Rhetor StudMonDec138:30-11:30BH 23SB
76-441ChaucerSatDec111:00-4:00BH 235B
76-442JoyceMonDec138:30-11:30BH 255A
76-481Hstry of Rhetoric ISatDec118:30-11:30BH 235A
76-819Comput & Rhetor StudMonDec138:30-11:30BH 235B
76-821Spec Tpcs in EnglishTueDec148:30-11:30BH 229B
76-841Chaucer* *SatDec111:00-4:00BH 235B
76-842Joyce(tonDec*138:30-11:30BH 255A
76-881Hstry of Rhetoric ISatDec118:30-11:30BH 235A
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102Shaping Wstrn CivAThuDec161:00-3:00PH 125B
CThuDec161:00-3:00PH 126A
79-103American CivilizationABSatDec111:00-3:00Gregg Hall
79-110Origins of Mdrn WrldTueDec141:00-3:00Gregg Hall,
79-120Dev of Amer SocietyMonDec135:30-7:30Gregg Hall.
79-206Chinese Cult fc SocTueDec141:00-3:00PH 125B
79-207History of AfrlcsTueDec145:30-7:30DH 1209
79-212Scientific OutlookMonDec138:30-10:30BH 229B
79-215Dynam Europe SocietyThuDec165:30-7:30WEH 5427
79-226Tchnlgy in Watrn CivMonDec135:30-7:30DH 1217
79-250Intro Appi HistorySatDec111:00-3:00BH 245
79-315Hstry Pittsburgh RegMonDec138:30-10:30BH 245
79-322Crime Justice Am HstFriDec171:00-3:00BH 245
79-343IrelandSatDec111:00-3:00PH 107A
79-354Vietnam Am Lost WarTueDec141:00-3:00BH 231
79-367Europe Inti AffairsTueDec145:30-7:30PH 126A
79-370Modern RussieThuDec165:30-7:30PH 125D
79-440Sem ln Urban SocietyMonDec138:30-10:30BH 254A
79-442Sem Public AffairsSatDec118:30-10:30BH 255A
Philosophy Courses
80-100Philos Mthds Soc VslThuDec161:00-3:30Gregg Hall
80-150AestheticsMonDec138:30-10:30PH 226B, PH
80-200Philos fc KnowledgeTueDec145:30-7:30BH 229B
80-310Intro to LogicTueDec145:30-7:30PH 19C
80-315Fndtns Psych TheorySatDec111:00-3:00BH 255B
Modern Language Program82-101Elementary FrenchWed Dec151:00-3:00BH 232V
82-103Programmed FrenchFri Dec171:00-4:00BH 232F
82-121Elementary GermanWed Dec151:00-3:00PH125B
82-123Programed GermanMon Dec138:30-10:30PH 126A
82-141Elementary SpanishSat Dec111:00-3:00PH 226C
82-143Programmed SpanishFri Dec171:00-3:00PH 126C
82-161Elesmntary ItalianTue Dec141:00-3:00PH 225B
82-163Programmed ItalianSet Dec111:00-3:00PH 225B
82-201Int French Cult SocTue Dec141:00-3:00BH 235A
82-221Int German Cult SocFri Dec171:00-3:00PH 226B
82-241Int Spanish Cult SocTue Dec145:30-7:30PH 226C
82-261Intermediate ItalianTue Dec141:00-3:00PH 226A
82-301French Conver 6 CompWed Dec155:30-7:30BH 235A82-321German Cnvrsatn CompTue Dec148:30-10:30PH 226A
82-341Spanish Cnvrsatn CmpWed Dec151:00-3:00PH 226A
82-409French Lit of 19th CMon Dec131:00-3:00PH 226B
82-428German Claaaical LitWed Dec158:30-10:30PH 226C
«2-455St Span Latin Am LitMon Dec138:30-10:30PH 226A
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
85-100Cog Paych Thao Pract LacI Mon Dec•V131:00-4:00DH 2210
LeeII Hon Dec131:00-3:00DH 2315
85-101General PsychologyMon Dec13 _1:00-2:00Gregg Hall
85-211Cognitive PsychologyA Fri Dec178:30-10:30DH 2315• .B Fri Dec178:30-10:30DH 2315
C Fri Dec178:30-10:30WEH 7500
85-213Inf Prc Pay Artf IntSat Dec115:30-8:30HH 10
85-221Developmntl PsychlgyMon Dec131:00-4:00HH 10
85-251PersonalityWed Dec158:30-10:30BH 340A85-252Psych Survlvl SkillsSat Dec118:30-11:30BH 340A
85-310Rsch Mthds Cog PsychWed Dec158:30-10:30BH 331H85-320Rsch Mthds Dev PsychSat Dec118:30-10:30MM 15A
85-340Rsch Mthds Soc PsychMon Dec138:30-11:30BH 340A
85-363Human FactorsThu Dec168:30-11:30t-M 340A85-411Cognitive PsychologyWed Dec158:30-11:30PH 19C
85-457Behavior ControlTue Dec145:30-7:30BH 232F
85-501Sem Male Gender RoleThu Dec161:00-3:00BH 340A
85-711Cognitive PsychologyWed Dec158:30-11:30PH 19C
85-713Inf Prc Psy Artf IntSet Dec115:30-8:30HH ip
85-720Dvlpmntl Core CourseMon Dec138:30-11:30BH 331H85-841Adv Sem Social PsychMon Dec138:30-11:30BH 235A
SOCIAL SCIENCE
88-102Dec Pr Amer Pol InstThu Dec168:30-11:30Gregg Hall
88-220Policy Analysis ITue Dec148:30-11:30PH 226B
88-240Empircl Rsch Meth ISat Dec118:30-11:30PH 126C
88-260OrganizationsMon Dec131:00-4:00BH 23188-280Social Scl Theory IMon Dec138:30-11:30PH 217
88-312Political PsychologyWed Dec158:30-10:30PH 226B
88-321Pol Econ Am Pol InstWed Dec151:00-4:00PH 226B
88-326Law & Public PolicyThu Dec161:00-4:00PH 125C88-342Mkt Org Bus Behav IWed Dec158:30-11:30PH 226A
88-361Tchnolgy & Soc ChangeWed Dec151:00-3:00PH 226C
88-366Emerg Soc Iss ComputThu Dec168:30-11:30PH 125C
Js-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
Beating the system midway through semester
If you're not a hacker yet, there are plenty of ways to learn
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
More than halfway through the semes­
ter, are you a hacker yet?
If you’ve got your account, user-id and 
password, try these things:
Help: type ? at the @ sign on the 
Decsystem-20 and choose your favorite com­
mand. Then type Help command. By typ­
ing question marks for choices and by 
hitting the escape key for “guidewords,” you 
can find your way through most Decsystem 
programs.
MS: is one of the programs that your 
question-marks will lead to answers. MS is 
the “official” electronic-mail program, but 
MM and Mail are also available. MM works 
almost identically to MS, but Mail is a rude 
and crude program almost made obsolete. 
Try all three, what the hell.
EMACS: Seems everyone’s learning 
EMACS, and with good reason. It’s easy, 
powerful and makes writing computer 
input, either programs or papers, a breeze.
EDIT, the old line-editor, is going the way 
of Mail, out. Although useful for when 
using hard-copy terminals (remember 
those?), EDIT just can’t compare to full­
screen, interactive editing. To learn 
EMACS, type EMACS:TEACH-EMACS 
when you see the @ sign.
SPELL: After you’ve got your paper in 
the machine, you can check its spelling with 
SPELL. Again, question marks and hitting 
escape will get you through this program, 
but type HELP SPELL before running 
SPELL and you’ll be more than prepared.
SCRIBE: There are a couple of ways to 
learn SCRIBE; buy the manual and read it, 
take the Comp Center Scribe course or 
harass someone who knows it unul they 
show you its basic commands and usage. 
SCRIBE is a text-formatting program. You 
enter the SCRIBE commands into your 
manuscript using EMACS or EDIT, then 
you run SCRIBE on that file. An alternative 
to SCRIBE also exists (just barely) called 
RUNOFF. Few people use it, even less like 
it.
PRINT: Usually, you’ll want to PRINT 
on the Xerox X9700, if you can catch it 
while it’s up. Although the major crisis with 
the X9700 is over, it’s not yet as dependable 
as it should be. Line printers, USERD, 
USERB et cetera, are possible alternative 
units, but the output is not half as nice as the 
Xerox’s. It’s still worth the wait.
If any of the above are news to you, you’re 
’way behind. I’m summing them up now in 
a last ditch effort to involve any reluctant 
users to get out there and play! Try these 
things, they can be very handy. Future 
columns will refer to them without second-
thought or additional explanation (unless, 
as will probably be the case) I’m writing 
about a neat EMACS or SCRIBE trick or 
option.
Other things to come before Christmas: 
BBOARDS, using Batch-Streams, Spooling 
output to printers, PTYCON and HOST 
programs, setting system defaults and creat­
ing Login.cmd, Comand.cmd, Emacs.vars 
and MSanit files. And addressing questions. 
And addressing personal computer issues. 
And trying to make some sense out of these 
machines that are becoming more and more 
ubiquitous.
em11gbCfH-b yxHmC 1oyu bt2HH,
Tech at Yankee Stadium
continued from page 15
nent when they face New York University 
in the Yankee Stadium at New York City 
next Saturday afternoon.” In case you 
didn’t know, 1927 was the year of the 
famous New York Yankees Murderers’ 
Row, with the likes of Babe Ruth and 
Lou Gehrig. But our own football team 
got to play on the same field as those all 
time greats. (Although, of course, not at 
the same time, which would be rather 
awkward since the Yankees were not a
college football team. I wonder if our 
team could have beaten the Yanks at 
football?)
Incidentally, a special train was res­
erved to carry our team and fans to the 
game. It left Pittsburgh at 9:30 PM Friday 
night, and arrived in New York at 7:45 
the following morning. The return trip 
left at 8:30 PM Sunday and arrived back at 
7:45 Monday. (Just in time for classes!) 
The fare was $21.10 round trip.
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
Graduate school. As you’re reeling from 
the burdens of undergraduate studies, those 
two words are not high on the list of “things 
to do when I graduate.”
As most of us have heard time and again, 
a bachelor’s degree does not hold too much 
water anymore out there in the “real world.” 
So, we may be forced to re-evaluate that list 
and re-establish our priorities. When you 
start on this baffling task of trying to figure 
out what you’d really like to do after gra­
duating, do not go at it alone.
Dennis Ryan, director of the Career Place­
ment Center, and Jay Devine, who heads the 
Academic Advisory Center, concurred that 
students should speak to their faculty 
advisors.
“Go to the faculty advisors,” stressed 
Devine. “They would know of exams and 
what they’re like.” The advisors are the 
middle-men between the students and the
outside world; they are up-to-date about var­
ious schools’ requirements for graduate stu­
dies. Different schools place varying 
MinernThN in wsph a2
$ from Inv. Club
By BOB FISHEL
Tartan Staffwriter
The Investment Club is looking towards 
future plans of offering high school seniors 
$1,000 scholarships. Before this program ^ 
will be put into effect, however, the club 
wants to build a solid foundation of $20,000. 
There are three ways by which the club 
intends to reach this goal. The first is 
through the club’s actual investments, the 
second is through external donations, and 
the third is through member donations.
The club is looking for aid from alumni, 
who will be contributing to the club in $100 
increments. Donators will be put on the 
MinernThN in wsph a2
cuSPEAK OUT FORUM
PERSONAL
COMPUTERS
STWP^NT
AT
C M U
TUESDAY. NOV. 2
430 WHERRETT
Dr. Richard Van Horn 
Dr. Doug Van Houweling 
Dr. Alan Newell
Sponsored by Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 19
Student conference sponsors contest on business
In 1976 the 1st Student Conference on 
International Business was held as an offi­
cial adjunct of The Chicago World Trade 
Conference.
As part of the Student Conference, an 
annual nationwide contest for student pap­
ers on business and related subjects was 
established. It is being repeated this year, for 
the eighth time.
Students inquiring about the competi­
tion should be advised that:
1) Topics selected should stimulate debate;
2) The winner must present and defend the 
paper at The Chicago World Trade Confer­
ence, April 18-19, 1983;
3) Fluency in English is required;
4) One does not have to be a business major 
to compete;
5) First prize includes $500 and a trip to 
Chicago to deliver the paper and receive the
Invest. Club
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph ad
club’s mailing list and will receive two quar­
terly reports and an annual report so that 
they will be able to follow the club’s 
progression.
After the club has the financing, all high 
-school seniors intending on coming to 
jlCamegie-Mellon will be eligible to apply 
for the scholarships. The club will award 
three scholarships to the most outstanding 
high school senior who display keen invest­
ment knowledge. The Investment ,Qub 
will judge the research.
Scholarships will not only help the learn­
ing process of the Investment Club, but they 
will also promote investment research by the 
high school senior while at the same time 
making CMU a more affordable choice!
Chicago World Trade Conference Award; 
second prize is $250 in cash.
1983 Program Preview: The April 18-19,' 
1983 program will include a corporate 
seminar, attendance at all of the business
sessions of the Chicago World Trade Con­
ference, and the paper presentation.
For additional information write or call 
Marian Laud at the following address: 
Student Conference on International
Business
c/o Institute of International Education 
401 North Wabash, Suite 534 
Chicago, Illinois 60611 
Telephone: (312)644-1400AISEC sponsors business-women speakers
Ambition. Cleverness. Patience. Stamina. 
Humor. Creativity. Leadership. Determina­
tion. These are just a very small amount of 
qualities that shape the well-rounded busi­
ness person. They make that business per­
son well-liked, admired, respected, and filled 
with prestige.
But, what happens when these dynamics 
are blocked by some obstacle? What 
becomes of that business person who has the 
talent for high-level business, but cannot be 
accepted by those who just will not overlook
that obstacle? Well, then, that person tries 
harder.
There are women who are balancing fam­
ily lives with business careers. They are deal­
ing with some old-fashioned attitudes, and 
gaining satisfaction from the positive ones. 
And they are here. In Pittsburgh. Soon, at 
Camegie-Mellon. On Monday November 
eighth, business-women from the Pitts­
burgh area will speak in the Highlander 
Room on such topics as business law, bank­
ing, and international business.
photo by Bob Fishel
Sr. Chem E’s Mike Kochanowski and Jim Stevenson prepare for a spooky design class.
Corporations such as The Aluminum 
Corporation of America (ALCOA) will be 
represented, and speakers will be on hand to 
answer questions and share experiences. So 
come to the Highlander Room from 4:30 to 
6 p.m. for an enlightening program and 
some interesting anecdotes. Refreshments 
will be served.
Grad tests info
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph ad
amounts of emphasis on the GRE’s, 
GMAT’s, LSAT’s, and MCAT’s.
“How much attention they give to the 
tests frequently varies from school to 
school,” said Ryan. He suggests taking the 
entrance exams at the end of the junior year 
or at least by the beginning of the senior year 
because some scholarship and fellowship 
programs have deadlines.
The Career Placement Office does 
not have all the forms, just the applications 
for the GRE and GMAT. Professor Karo- 
lyne Eisenstein, the pre-med advisor, has the 
MCAT forms in her office on the first floor 
of Scaife Hall. Check Tom Kerr’s office in 
GSIA for the LSAT forms.
However, as Ryan pointed out, grad 
school is not for everybody. “Students get a 
good reading from faculty advisors about 
whether or not they should be considering 
graduate studies,” says Ryan. “They are in a 
better position to guide you.”
ALCOHOLAWARENESSPROGRAM
I i i Thurs. Nov. 4Drinking and Drivinq Issues.s »?¡1 Wherret RoomjhPniEH Fse9! Dxk& kBVBH RiiPNrnseiP 
LeH ­PsnMr1 ‘i1wrestH mree1yTPp9H mcHT'll
Thurs. Nov. 11 
Wherret Room
miTt Uhe9ht& mPiyserin W33rMhPctthp9hnv RiTnev mPiyserinH WsStsnN W33rMh
mree1yTPp9H mcH
What is Alcoholism? Symptoms 
& Treatment
L9sPin xsSh1H krPhMeiP i3 .9hPswv 
%sehusv Fh9syrtreserin RhnehP 
FN 8 Die3hee FTn FNH
Aiiqwippa. PA.
Tues. Nov. 16 
Highlander Room
Alcohol: Special Issues
(Warnen and drinking, alcoholism & the family 
dealing with akehofcc friend», okchotam. gey 
Janet Sheline. Prevemiei» Services Coordinator 
Si Froncis Hospital. Pittsburgh. PA.
All Programs 7pm 
Sponsored by Dept, of Student Activities- 
Division of Student Affairs and Housing Office

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
bN Oi»»«. TVocio^j Mar\< LeuiyeiQL'f\cl _____________________________
ff draw mp a GEfR...) |/6oy,yoo 6uys are ujc*y.
rsf^TTN 1 ALWAY-5 po faC g-HUf vt
F)m ite
OFF HOOP'S
ny,P bv yoo upHvl15 You'fti
flW] y--------------------------------S. h.__,
Edit Kfoutivys^dx) 
a\\ “VKcwo^,vs^lly - • —*.
Isah, bur y(b'& aoiMQ-fy 
bRkmm.yowfie
AlMWS boitib 7t> ß£ AL®ÄäTp C¿ft A-
/»ELL, AT LEAST 
yWfc'IU PEOPLE,
VOW 0Ot you jtsys yet +-v>d 
S^*Cftdy jobSj-^ ^OKiV
*u Yom Oc> cohponn 
CAflJooMSl 2f ^AST X'M loPlcAll
oralPesEN WHo's
TH£ £ fri TOR i tor 
CfiZTOOf* ARourf
Student Senate is asked about CMU computing
Note to the Readers:
The following is a letter to the Student 
Senate. It ivas presented to the Student 
Senate at the Student Senate meet log on the 
19th of October.
There are some minor changes mostly to 
reflect new information concerning some 
minor aspects of the letter. The changes 
were requested by Senator Safier for clarity.
-O.A.
By Orpheus Allison
As a student of Camegie-Mellon Univer­
sity, I can naught but applaud the recent 
decision of the university to place itself on 
the map of Academia. By deciding to go 
’ through with a new plan for 
introducing students to the 
^ computer age, the university 
will be able to attract a new 
group of determined intellectuals that will 
continue to insure Camegie-Mellon’s place 
in annals of computer history.
It is said in some less enlightened circles 
that the end is not necessarily justified by the 
means. Now, it has come to my attention 
and I am certain, to most of the readers, that 
the university has decided to partake in 
research with IBM in order to develop a 
massive computer network that would be 
used by the students of Camegie-Mellon 
University for their computing needs. News 
of this only reached this student through a 
second hand news report during a viewing 
of a television program on Sunday the 17th.
It has also come to my attention that the 
Student Body now present, was to have been 
given a chance to give input into this deci­
sion at a student forum scheduled for the 
second of November. And also, through 
attendance at Student Senate meetings, I was 
led to believe through the discussion given, 
that no decision was to have been made by
the university until the student forum had 
been held. I am assured by Senator Safier, 
that during the last year, there were to his 
knowledge three meetings held for the stu­
dent body to give input into die decision 
that was made this year. Am I right to 
assume then that the freshman class of this 
^year will not be listened to during the next 
four years as exemplified by the previous 
statement?
However, now that the decision has been 
made that CMU will have a student-wide 
computing system beginning in the next 
few years, and that the decision was made 
without input from the freshman class, here 
are some questions that should be seriously 
dealt with before further damage is done:
Space: Where will the computers be 
placed? How will they be placed in the 
rooms so as to minimize space loss? How 
large are the units that the students will be 
required to use? Will these units obstruct 
desk space so that students will be unable to 
utilize their desk space for purposes other 
than computer related work?
Cost: Will this decision requiring compu­
ters increase the amount of money that stu­
dents will have to pay in their costs? Will the 
cost for the spatial alteration of the rooms be 
forced upon the present student body? How 
can the students be assured that there will be 
no increase in their costs to pay for any part 
of the implementation of this program? 
Will the housing office increase housing 
costs to pay for the alterations necessary for 
the system to be implemented? Will the 
office of financial aid be able to find new 
sources of aid so that there will be a way for 
the students to afford the cost of a computer?
General Will the university discriminate 
against the student if the student refuses to 
buy a terminal? Will students be able to have
immediate access to another terminal if their 
own should fail to function? Who will be 
doing the repair work, CMU people or an 
outside contractor? Who will pay for the 
repairs — the student or CMU? Will there be 
a person on call at any time who can fix the 
terminals? Where will additional printing 
units be placed so that students can quickly 
get a copy of their work? What about the 
security? Will there be an increase in security 
to protect the students investment?
And the list continues. The Senate should 
be ashamed of itself. While allowing petty 
little disagreements to surface and tie down 
the Senate, the university was already imple­
menting its decision. Senate did litde. And 
Senator Safier, while your committee had 
you write the report that the committee 
agreed to as a whole, you should have real­
ized that the work necessary for a full and 
detailed accounting would necessitate a 
large amount of information during the 
normal school year, and that the work 
would have required the full aid of your 
committee members.
And also, while you may have tried to put 
part of the assesment of damage onto the 
other members of the committee as well as 
yourself, you as chair of the committee for 
the future of computing at CMU, are 
responsible for the overseeing of all that the 
committee does. And, if the members of the 
committee give their approval to what you 
have done on your own, they and you 
should all be ready to accept responsibility 
for the work that come out out of your effort.
As for the report which did not approve 
and which you withdrew from considera­
tion, I have never seen mud so thick. It was
clouded in generalities and it was as well 
inconclusive. Perhaps, you might ask the 
English department for help in clarifying 
your reports in the future.
For the conclusion of the letter. I stated 
the following, “Therefore, I propose the fol­
lowing: that a student group be set up to ^ 
review the policy of the contract, the univer­
sity, and the corporation concerned (IBM). 
There should then be a full and complete 
report made to the Student Senate with the 
questions answered in full...In addition, it 
should be presented to the student body 
before any further work is done.
“For a school to attempt the extraordinary 
is perfectly permissible and it should be used 
as the goal of any school. That goal must 
however at no time, cause one member of it’s 
community to be forgotten for the selfish 
advancement of another.”
As a final note, it was decided at the Stu­
dent Senate, that a joint committee would be 
set up to review the questions listed above 
and report to the Student Senate and SDC 
(Student Dormitory Council forms the other 
portion of the joint committee).
I urge that any member of the 1195 fresh­
men or any of the upperclassmen who do 
feel strongly about this issue speak out and ^ 
demand an explanation for this behind the* 
scenes intrigue of the administration. Either 
that or join the joint committee and allow 
your voice to be heard. Also, do attend the 
November 2 forum and let yourself be heard 
or allow this unethical practice to continue, 
with you the student and the future alumni 
paying the price.
Orpheus A llison is a freshman in H&SS 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Vim Denney: yportance 
f painting
PAM SNYDER
\artan Staffurriter
Agressive, direct, nostalgic, emotional, 
cessible and complex: all of these qualities 
racterize the artwork of CMU faculty 
embers, Jim Denney; and none of them 
semble the adjectives that I, a viewer of art 
Is pretty pictures, would have ventured to 
1 tnploy before meeting the artist himself.
I met with Denney at the Hewlett Gallery 
the fine arts building recendy; after 
ie had finished his routine cup of coffee, 
and I spent twenty minutes standing 
to pane and gazing wide-eyed at his 
active artwork on display inside.
In the first five minutes of our conversa- 
Ll I was convinced of one thing: Jim 
is very convinced of the importance 
all paindng, and the importance of his 
Denney describes himself as “pro- 
| and “ambitious”, but his paintings say 
of that for him.
According to Denney, many people today 
iew art as “pluralistic”-he feels this is inac- 
I urate. Art is more than “just some stylistic 
1 rode” and he asserts that some forms of 
| rtwork have more meaning than others. 
Elaine A. King, director of the Hewlett 
-allery, classifies Denney as a ‘neo- 
pressionalist’ and explains: “Neo-
pressionalistic modes aim to move 
yond the distinction between good and 
d, make taste inoperative, and transcend 
ie morality of aesthetic decision, whether 
the selection of imagery or in the attempt 
generate a new style.”
Jim Denney stresses that he wants his art- 
ork to be “more than solving aesthetic 
roblems.’VBy directing his artwork toward 
litical, cultural and economical problem 
Iving, Denney would like his art to reflect 
nald Kuspit’s statement: “When the 
orld is Areatened, the studio is threa- 
.” These reflections are focused on the 
uture dread” of annihilation which Den- 
y believes to be instilled in the hearts and 
Inds of many Americans, exspecialjy those 
m in the 50’s and 60’s.
He aims to bring out both the current 
fects of this underlying threat, as well as
Jefferson Starship is scheduled to play the Stanley on November 10. Tickets are available.
the nostalgia for the future which it creates. 
Ms. King adds that neo-expressionalists are 
“involved in something more important 
than art: cultural criticism.”
Eveiy piece of Jim Denney’s art has a 
definite message. He wants these messages 
to be “self-evident” and “accessible.” He 
does not want the viewer to be forced to “get 
down cm his hands and knees” to try and 
figure the messages out,
Denney’s art takes the form of emotional 
direct expressions and allegories, instructive 
stories in which people, things and events 
have a symbolic meaning. In all cases, Den­
ney’s images stay With the viewer and 
emphasizes the definition that he constandy 
strives for m his “ongoing process” of trying 
to determine the most important ideas he 
can captive in his paintings.
As an artist and advisor, Jim Denney uses 
“talented” and “ambitious” to describe his
students at CMU. They demand his clear, 
honest, critical opinions and put pressure 
on him to be coherent in his thinking. He 
tries to show his students the “intellectual 
and emotional boundaries” erf their work. 
The same personal boundaries that he him­
self pushes against when striving for the 
unexpected in his work. Above all, he would 
like his students to recognize die 'cultural 
content of their art and to see their own work 
with clarity.
Beginning in tjhie 60’s,, strict attention to 
outward forms and technical problems 
resulted in an emptying erf emotional and 
spiritual meaning from paintings
Today, agressive, ambitious painters like 
Jim Denney are working towards, in Ms. 
King’s words: “the recovery erf the assertive 
impact of a medium whose force and impor­
tance was thought to be spent, whose best 
days were thought to be in the fast.”
'allace brings his work to Baker Hall
jty SUSAN BOSSI
[arton Staffurriter
Last Wednesday, Robert Wallace gave a 
?try reading in Baker Hall 231 at 8:00 
•m. At this reading, Wallace read selections 
fom his three previously published books 
id also from two books Wallace expects to 
ive published in the future.
Gerald Costango, professor of English, 
Produced Wallace as “a craftsman who, 
['deed, has something to us.” Costango, 
has published Wallace’s works, asked
photo by Kathie Drazenovich
¦Robert Wallace, graduate of Cambridge, 
[gave a poetry reading last week.
He began writing poetry in his grade 
school years and was first published in his 
second year of schooling at Cambridge. 
Poets that had the greatest influence on Wal­
lace included Wilbur/Moore and Nimiroff.
When asked about his views on modem 
poetry, Wallace replied, “Poems today are 
too loose and slack. I wish they had more 
form.” About his own preference in poetry, 
he stated, “Poems with humor seem to last 
longer for me than serious ones.”
Other books that Wallace has had pub­
lished include two children’s books: Critters 
and Charlie Joins the Circus. Finally, he 
wrote a textbook entitled Writing Poems 
which is used in the Survey of Genres: Poe­
try course at CMU.
Wallace gives approximately three or four 
readings each year by invitation. He limits 
himself to this amount because he wants to 
avoid becoming “repetitive” or “stale.” In 
his leisure, Wallace enjoys swimming and 
frequent visits to Paris, France.
Wallace to give this reading at CMU.
Wallace began by reading one excerpt 
from Vieu>s from a Ferris Wheel which was 
published in 1965 and the title poem from 
Ungainly Things, published in 1968. 
Thirdly, Wallace read a poem entitled 
“Myth, Commerce, and Coffee on United 
Flight #622 From Cleveland to Norfolk”
from his book Swimmer in the Rain. At this 
point, he read many selections from a book 
that is expected to be published in the fall of 
1983, Girlfriends and Wives.
These poems are, like the majority erf 
Wallace’s poetry, based on his own personal 
experiences. They included poems such as 
“Linda Lou,” a poem about a girl he knew 
in the first grade and “Anne,” a poem about 
one of his wives.
Wallace ended his reading with works 
that he plans to publish in book form after 
MinernThN in wsph 8g
"Sonata" at the Kresge
The Camegie-Mellon University drama 
department will present August Strind­
berg’s “Hie Ghost Sonata” from Nov. 11 to 
20 in Kresge Theater in the College erf Fine 
Arts. - * . -'¿à.
The play, rather otherworldly in charac­
ter, involves an aristocratic family which not 
only has a few skeletons in ks closet but a 
real live “Mummy” living in there too. She 
is acutely upset about growing old.
Yosef Yzraely, visiting professor in 
drama, is directing the Michael Meyer trans­
lation. Yzraely, who earned a doctor’s degree 
from CMU, served most recendy as artistic 
director of Habima National Theater of 
Israel. He toured thé U.S.,. Canada and 
Europe last year with that group. Yzraely 
has also worked with the Royal Shakespeare 
Company in Stratford, England, and at the 
Royal Court Theater, London.
Starring in the show are Michael O’Steen 
as the colonel, Maxine Lapiduss as 
Mummy, Lisa Waltz as the daughter, Kevin 
Black as a student and Thom Delventhal in 
the key role erf the old man.
Designing the show are: Bob Peidziola, 
sets; Carson Machado, costumes; Chris 
Evans, sound; and Brian Fitzmorris, 
lighting.
Performances are nighdy, except Sunday, 
at 8 with matinees at 2, Nov. 13 and 20. For 
further information, contact the CMU box 
office at 578-2407.
Psychedelic Furs at Heaven
By C RHOADES
Tartan Staffurriter
Pittsburgh nightclub Heaven, on Sixth 
Ave. downtown, continues its recent “new 
music” line-up this Thursday with the Pitts­
burgh premiere of The Psychedelic Furs.
Hie Furs are touring in support 
.dp of their new LP, Forever Now, 
an album that some have called 
misguided.
There is, I fear, some validity to this judge­
ment. Todd Rundgren’s prodution is an 
unfortunate addition to the band’s sound 
since the loss of saxophonist Duncan Kli- 
bum and supporting guitarist Roger Mor­
ris. The Psychedelic Furs’ menacing sonic 
trademark-the jagged textured wall of 
sound-seems patently incom pa table with 
Rundgrenized horns, keyboards and vocals.
But, I must be fair, the combination some­
times comes up with interesting moments. 
“Only You and I” should have been the 
single rather than “Love My Way.” Its bells 
rise above their own Toddishness and pro­
vides a U2-like accent to Ashton’s guitar. 
The use of a cello works well in this song, to 
fill in what a Morris rhythm line might have 
filled before. “President Gas” doesn’t come 
off as well, depsite a promising bridge 
MinernThN in wsps 8g

---------------------------------------------------

Attention: AU Campus Organization Heads
In order to retain your recognized status as a student organiza­
tion, you must fill out the 1982-83 Organizational Survey 
Form. Pick them up and return them to the Skibo Informa­
tion Desk by 5:00 p.m., November 9.
Due Wed. Nov. 3 at 5:00 at Skibo Information Desk.
Seats Available:
CIT 5 H&SS 2
MCS 2 GSIA 1
CFA 2 SUPA 1
Funded by activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 23
pgh Renaissance Theatre established for growth of city
By JOHN CANTINE 
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor 
Beginning in December, Pittsburgh will 
have a new professional theatre company. 
The Pittsburgh Renaissance Theatre aims 
to produce classic musicals, the old favorites 
that people like to see again and again.
As Dan Fallon, the company’s managing 
?director, explains: “The Pittsburgh Labor- 
tory Theatre already does experimental and 
avant-garde plays. The Pittsburgh Public 
Theatre brings a lot of new shows right 
from Broadway. Our aim is to bring back 
old, familiar productions, the ones that peo­
ple have seen before and enjoy seeing, like 
the Civic Light Opera does for six weeks 
every summer.”
In fact, the company sprang from the 
artistic staff of the the CLO. This past
summer, Fallon worked as stage manager 
and assistant to the director at the CLO. “We 
started talking about ways to keep the CLO 
going on into the year,” Fallon explains, 
“But Heinz Hall was only available for the 
summer.”
That problem, combined with CLO’s 
recent management problems, brought a 
halt to the plan. “But some of us were so 
taken with the idea, we decided to go ahead 
with it anyway,” Fallon says. So the idea of a 
new Pittsburgh theatre company was bom.
Fallon, a native Pittsburgher, has spent 
nine years working with amateur and semi- 
professional theatres since he graduated 
from Camegie-Mellon in 1973 with a dou­
ble degree in mechanical engineering and 
psychology. After going on to recieve an 
MBA fom Kent State, he worked as an engi­
neer and marketing manager for General 
Electric and General Motors.
“But I’ve always been involved with the 
theatre,” Fallon says. “I started out as an 
actor. I was given some of the best leading 
roles in musical theatre— John the Baptist 
in Godspell, Snoopy in Charlie Brown, and 
Don Quixote in The Man of La Mancha.” 
With his first try at directing— 
Godspell— Fallon knew that he was in love. 
“I said ‘This is where I’ve got to be.’ So I left 
my life of wealth and took up theatre.” 
Fallon originally planned to try his luck 
in New York. But while in Pittsburgh with 
the CLO, he saw the expansion of the dty, 
the new construction that was part of 
“Renaissance II.”
“I saw the mess the dty was in,” Fallon 
says, referring to the construction, “And ISly's latest needs Rocky's charisma
By ERIC PATTERSON
Tartan Staffwriter
After the film Rocky III had finally com­
pleted its run, to the tune of nearly $40 mil­
lion, Sylvester Stallone was again on top of 
the box-office world. Once more he had a 
name that was almost sure to 
draw people into movie 
theaters.
Then why did he choose to 
low up his success in Rocky III with a 
film like First Blood}
First Blood is a routinely directed film 
with a generally standard plot. There’s a 
twist, however. First Blood is so laughably 
[ridiculous in every way that it will leave any 
udience in stitches throughout, until it put­
ters out with an unsatisfying conclusion.
Stallone portrays John Rambo, a former 
Green Beret* a former killing machine, a 
man living with the physical and mental 
scars of his service in Vietnam. He is a drifter 
,ow, walking into a small town in 
ashington, supposedly not looking for 
ouble.
He finds it. The town sheriff, played by 
>rian Dennehy, tells Rambo to leave town.
Bodywear
Legwear
Footwear
Also, we design 
and make 
costumes
Pittsburgh’s Most 
Complete Line of
THEATRICAL and 
DANCE SUPPLIES
¿¡eon Q. Rutpk
f44A ^hnSrn1 cPMsNh 
kiuneiun mree1yTPp9
m9inh f2a’ao88
Pregnant?
cnN viT NrNnOe ,hsn ei yhY
Pot a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
When he refuses, the sheriff arrests him for 
vagrancy. Rambo escapes from jail, though, 
fighting his way to freedom, bowling over 
every man in the entire town police depart­
ment in what turns out, unexpectedly, to be 
one erf the more hilarious scenes in the film.
The film trudges on, its mindless screen­
play drawing it blindly into movie oblivion. 
Dennehy leads his deputies into a dark 
forest, then splits them all up so they can go 
one-on-one against an expert in hand-to- 
hand combat. One deputy is shot severely in 
the leg, then starts crying because Rambo 
killed the Dobermans. Rambo shuts off the 
power to an entire town with a few well- 
placed gunshots. The silliness never ends.
Rambo doesn’t want to kill, the viewer is 
told. Nah. He just wants to wound people in 
the most sadistic ways possible.
Stallone gives a horrible, one­
dimensional performance. He fails misera­
bly, playing up Rambo’s subdued manner 
point of catatonia. Dennehy, a journeyman 
actor, doesn’t do anything special in this
film, but he so outshines Stallone that after a 
while the viewer starts rooting for the hunter 
instead of the hunted.
Richard Crenna gives a high-camp per­
formance as Rambo’s Green Beret com­
mander. He’s a consultant to Dennehy, and 
he always reminds the sheriff in a preachy 
way of what a prize pupil Rambo once was.
The first ten minutes of the movie are 
devoted to “character development,” the rest 
to action. That’s fine, but too often the film 
deddes to stop its own flow to explain the 
characters’ motivations. The departures 
only make the film much worse.
Though the film is set in Washington, all 
of the shooting was done in British Colum­
bia. The use of locations is good, and so is 
the photography. The film is even exdting 
at times, but not often enough. First Blood 
died long before production started, when 
three persons (including Stallone) scrawled 
out a hackneyed, haphazard screenplay.
Who knows, maybe there will be a Rocky 
IV.
realized that it was the beginning of a real 
revolution, economically and culturally. I 
know that when they get it all done, this is 
going to be one incredible town.”
The purpose of the PRT is to share in the 
growth of the dty, “to grab onto a part erf the 
Renaissance,” as Fallon says. That is why 
the company, which originally called itself 
the Pittsburgh Repertory Theatre, changed 
its name to the Pittsburgh Rennaissance 
Theatre.
Strangely enough, much of the PRT’s 
present support is coming from the dty’s 
other theatre groups, “their attitude seems to 
be ‘the more the merrier,’ ” Fallon says. “We 
have the full support of the CLO, and the 
other groups have welcomed us with open 
arms. Even the PPT, though it’s an Equity 
house, has offered us what support they 
could.”
Right now the PRT is operating from 
Chatham College’s Eddy Theatre, though it 
is not affiliated with Chatham.
The PRT’s first production, not supris- 
ingly, will be Godspell. It will be presented 
the first three weeks in December, and audi­
tions were held in late October.
Also, “since Godspell is so dependent on a 
feeling erf ensemble,” there will be several 
ensemble auditions, where groups come in 
and audition together.
In keeping with the company’s philo­
sophy, plays being proposed for the 1983 
season indude You’re a Good Man, Charlie 
Brown and The Fantasticks. “But the future 
depends a lot on Godspell,” Fallon says. 
“We will try to get people’s reactions, and 
decide our future from them. I don’t think, 
though, that we’ll stray from our original 
intention.”
But for the present, the PRT needs what 
Fallon calls "the marketing man in me.” 
His job, as he sees it, is “to let the commun­
ity know that there is a new, highly-polished 
theatrical group here.”
xth,hne $86ENVIRONMENT
We started out to make our company a place where achievers could flourish 
This meant scrapping the status quo and giving talented men and women the freedom 
and support to try new ideas. The formula works1 By making this our standard, 
we have been able to attract some of the best minds in the industry achievers in the 
best sense of the word Make the Intel formula work for you Talk to Intel soon'
Element #3: YOU
SIGN UP FOR CAMPUS INTERVIEWS NOVEMBER 12
¡rvf r winners 0F0o0 by design

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
Pittsburgh's River City Brass Band making it to the top
By TOM WOODLEY
Tartan Staffivriter
Most everyone in Pittsburgh is familiar 
with the great Renaissance which has taken 
place here in the past twenty-five years, but 
one erf its most vital aspects, the River City 
>. Brass Band is practically 
unknown. A deep tradition 
seventy-five years absent from 
Pittsburgh, the River City Brass 
Band (RCBB) recreates the rich, beautiful 
tones only characteristic of a professional 
brass band.
Besides being such a landmark in the 
Pittsburgh entertainment scene, of the 
RCBB’s twenty-seven members, eighteen 
are CMU students (twelve alumni, four 
graduates and two undergraduates). The
Tartan interviewed two of these alumni, 
Milt Orkin (baritone) and David Piecka 
(french horn), to capture the true spirit 
behind the RCBB.
“The RCBB is very challenging and 
enjoyable,” said Piecka. “It fills a void for 
young brass players in Pittsburgh.” Recon­
firming the excellence of the CMU music 
school, members were chosen almost solely 
on the basis of an audition held last fall 
among Pittsburgh area musicians. “Players 
were selected on virtuoso, style, playing abil­
ity and reading,” explained Piecka.
The band, essentially unlimited by its size 
or instrumentation, plays a whole variety of 
classic music ranging from show pieces and 
symphonic tunes to marches, military favor­
ites and most importantly, famous brass 
selections. “A brass band can play marches
but can also be very mellow and soft with 
light classical (music) or ballads,” stated 
Orkin.
At their performances, the RCBB does 
more than just play good music however. 
“We try to put on entertaining programs 
with sing alongs, featured soloists and local 
amateur groups which do short programs 
with us,” said Piecka. The audience is 
further entertained by audience selected 
encores and the appearance of guest soloists 
and conductors. At their last concert, Octu- 
bafest, world famous tuba player, Harvey 
Phillips was the guest soloist. The concert 
featured German and Austrian music, a five 
piece selection of sing alongs and a three 
piece Beatles suite. In the next RCBB con­
cert, Stars and Stripes Forever, the silent 
movie, The Great Train Robbery is to be 
shown to lively brass accompaniment.
Jeff Lorber's Fusion "jazz up" Stanley
By KJ. SENIOR
Tartan Staffwritn
The Jeff Lorber Fusion put on a superb 
show at the Stanley Showcase, Thursday 
October 21. Opening the concert was a local 
Pittsburgh band, the Ron Bartol Group, 
featuring Kenny Blake (alto sax) 
and Ron Bartol (guitar). These 
two easily proved that they are 
among the hottest players in 
town. Even though the audience was very 
rude and impatient, Fusion was well- 
received.
In spite of the fact that there was no heat, 
and the lighting and sound were second 
rate, Lorber put on a hell erf a show. His 
opening number quickly warmed up the 
house—and caused a speaker to fall from the 
scaffolding, fortunately away from the 
crowd.
Jeff Lorber (keyboards), Kenny Gorelick 
(soprano and tenor sax, flute and lyricon) 
and Marlon McClain (guitar) traded off 
solos on every tune, which extended each 
song approximately 10 minutes. Despite 
Lorber’s dazzling solos, McClain’s scream­
ing guitar riffs and the bassist slamming 
away with his thumb, Gorelick’s impecca­
ble soprano sax playing was untouchable.
Gorelick, 25, has a character in his play­
ing that has yet to be found in such veterans 
as Grover Washington, Rollins and Col- 
trane. His ten minute solo an “Tierre Verde” 
tore down the house, justifying the crowd’s 
exhilarating standing ovation.
Gorelick’s personality and soul undoubt­
edly came through his sax, which must have 
captured every woman’s heart that evening.
The energetic and intense emotion of 
Lorber’s accoustic piano and remote strap
on synthesizer playing was also cheered on 
with several standing ovations. It would 
have been nice to have seen fancy lighting 
and stunts, but the amazing talent that 
Lorber, McClain and Gorelick have for 
improvising was more than enough.
The live reproduction of Lorber’s over­
dubbed melodies and accompaniment of his 
records were amazingly done the same. 
Lorber played the melody with his right 
hand on the synthesizer while his left played 
the syncopated rhythms.
Lorber seems to be a pioneer of a new 
direction in jazz, perhaps a modem day 
Charlie Parker. The only difference is the 
funky accompaniment of the rhythm sec­
tion, the lyrical melodies skillfully laid on 
top, fitted together by the melodical, tex- 
tured harmonies which creates the Jeff 
Lorber Fusion.
Inspired by director-manager Bob Bemat, 
the RCBB is modeled after British brass 
bands. According to Bemat, brass bands 
were a prized aspect, as are sports teams of 
today, of each community around the turn 
of the century. Unfortunately, this custom 
quickly died out so that now, the RCBB is 
the only professional brass band in the U.S.
Besides reviving an old tradition, the 
RCBB also feels it necessary to provide an 
educational aspect to their existence for 
young high school and college brass players. 
"Too many kids put their instruments away 
when they leave high school. We must start 
with these kids young so they can organize 
themselves when they leave school.” With 
this goal in mind, the RCBB is attempting 
to start an ‘honors program’ with Pitts­
burgh high schools to form an amateur 
high school brass band.
Ticket sales to RCBB concerts have r 
doubled over the past year and the band is 
planning on putting out a recording in the 
near future but much more must and will 
happen to reinstate a brass tradition in this 
country.
A non-profit group, the RCBB is sup­
ported mainly by ticket sales, corporate 
sponsoring and volunteer work and is con­
sequently limited in its resources. For the 
future, Orkin says, “I would like to see the 
band provide good pay for the members. 
would like the RCBB to be able to tour the 
U.S. and Europe and play a forty week sea­
son, with several performances per week.” 
Whether the RCBB accomplishes-its long 
term goals or not, it is sure to bless Pitts­
burgh with its fresh ideas and warm sound 
for several years to come.
For anyone wishing to know more about 
the RCBB and ticket information, the 
RCBB phone is 332-6821.
GRADUATING ENGINEERS: IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR CHALLENGE, WE'RE TAKING OFF SOON TO LOOK FOR YOU.
Ih7tt yh rnehPbrhurnp in RsPnhprh’Dhttin Ms,wT1 IhNnh1Nsv! >ibh,yhP f
If you like challenge, you’ll like 
Paradyne. We’re one of America’s fastest 
growing data communications 
companies, generating new challenges 
(and new engineering positions) almost 
daily.
If you join Paradyne, you’ll be deeply 
involved with computer modems and 
other sophisticated systems which 
provide computer users with high speed, 
cost-efficient data processing and 
communications over telephone lines. 
Our products are marketed throughout 
the United States and in international 
markets as well.
At Paradyne, challenges abound. 
You’ll be working with the latest state of 
the art technology in a high tech 
environment. You could be instrumental 
in developing new technology.
In addition, you’ll be working with 
some of the sharpest engineers in the 
business — people who came to us from 
America’s most respected high 
technology corporations. Or, who came 
to us direcdy from college and moved up 
rapidly into key engineering positions.
Which leads to another point: Chances 
are excellent you won’t remain a beginner 
at Paradyne for very long. Because you’ll
have a great shot at gaining meaningful 
experience fast and moving up fast.
If you like sunshine with your 
challenge, you’ll like Paradyne’s location. 
We’re based on the Gulf of Mexico side of 
Florida’s fast growing Tampa Bay area. 
Easy access to miles of world famous 
beaches are but one of our area’s attractive 
features.
Next step? Paradyne recruiter Kathy 
Starkey, accompanied by a Paradyne 
engineer, is coming to talk to you. Sign 
up now with your placement office for an 
interview.
It could be your first step to a sunny, 
challenging career.
LOOK HEM IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR CHALLENGE.
paradyne
Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 25
Views of unlimited architecture at Forbes Gallery
jy SARA RATCHYE
' to the Tartan 
A common history of architectural study 
lites the three artists showing at Forbes 
Gallery. Their creativity, freed from archi- 
ltural limits, has materialized three 
diverse points of view. The dif­
ferences are especially evident in 
three approaches to the figure. 
Harvey Butts used a hazy 
Ifocus and high-contrast, grainy film to 
ite a surreal atmosphere within his pho- 
iphs. Light becomes a glowing shape 
it has laid a second, soft-white garment 
3ver the female figure. Joe Patterson’s large 
)rtraits are loosely and expressively drawn. 
Jsing a variety of medium, Patterson’s sim­
ile, gestural lines trace a direct impression 
if the subject’s personality.
Where Butts shows an interaction 
between light and his subject where each is 
[of equal importance, Patterson concentrates 
:>n his subject’s personal energy.
In contrast to the relatively undistorted 
¡figures erf Butts and Patterson, Cas Pelligri- 
li’s drawings show figures as part erf, and(
merging from, gridded, fantasy architec­
ture. Perhaps they are an expression of the 
itect bridging the technical grid and 
lore freely expressed ideas.
Pelligrini is also exhibiting an architectu- 
project piece. The large, technical, areal 
iew drawing of a horse race track is illus-I
trated by an image watercolor drawing of 
the view from the stands. Looking across the 
large pond in the center of the oval track, 
xie sees the illusion of the horses racing over 
rater.
In addition to photographs, Harvey Butts 
showing several drawings. The drawings 
mge from satirical cartoons to precise,
detailed studies erf architecture and portraits.
The balance of form and function is the 
aim of Joe Patterson’s ceramic work. 
Through drawings the artist illustrates the 
processes of designing an object, making, 
and using it.
In addition to being able to study the 
artist’s thoughts on surface, proportion, and 
color, the viewer can compare the ideas with 
the finished product. It is a rare opportunity 
to study method along with product in art.
In contrast to the exhibition of Butts, Pat­
terson, and Pelligrini, last week’s Forbes 
Gallery show tided Architecture and Integ­
rity, emphasized project work rather than 
art.
jJpfitfteen architects, Steven L. Cohen, 
iSLoKrt S. Condon, Elizabeth Dawson, 
^P^n M. Fogelman, Greg Frucci, Scott W. 
Jones, Alice Kao, Russell Laufer, Irwin 
Lowenstein, Max J. Mavronic, Eric Neisser, 
Dick Schmitz, Chris Snowber, and John A. 
Thomas showed technical representations 
of building plans, perspectives, and 
elevations.
These drawings, along with a 3-D model, 
would be presented to a client. Most of the 
projects involved a real site in Pittsburgh. 
For example, Alice Kao’s first place project 
for Dollar Savings Bank and Schmitz’s and 
Snowber’s project showing Shady Avenue 
Dental Offices.
In addition to the project drawings, the 
exhibition included pen and pencil draw­
ings and prints by Norma Barbucci and 
Greg Grucci, a mixed media work by Sarah 
Drake titled “The Letter,” a serigraph by 
Steven Fogelman, a sculpture by Eric 
Neisser, and “Phaedrus’ World” an acrylic 
painting by John Seitz.
The highlight, for me, of Architecture 
and Integrity was the larged mixed media 
painting, tided “We stopped at Howard 
Johnsons on the turnpike to Pluto’s 
Palace,” by Barbucci, Cain, Erikson, Hers- 
coe, Jones, Kronenbitter, Robel, Sawrik, 
Scuffle, Seitz, Swan, and Whitmore.
The work’s unsubde, expressively app­
lied color, newspaper pictures, and photo­
graphs embodied the intoxicating joy erf 
being on an adventure with one’s friends.
Both exhibits characterize the diverse 
interests and work by architects at CMU. 
The current show will be open at Forbes 
Gallery until Saturday.
Philharmonic responds 
well to new conducter
By L.G. TROVATO 
Tartan Staffwriter
I must admit that I was a bit wary when I 
went to hear the Camegie-Mellon Philhar­
monic a few weeks ago. Here they were 
with a new conductor, well known for his 
| demanding and passionate 
j style. How well would the stu- 
jdent orchestra adapt to Wemer 
iTorkanowsky?
Very well, thank you. In a difficult and 
ambitious program of twentieth century 
Russian composers, the CMU Philhar­
monic came through with flying colors. 
The program was far from perfect, and 
indeed much of it sounded somewhat tenta­
tive. Yet the Philharmonic has actually 
come up with not only a new sound, but one 
that has begun to find the balance between 
their outstanding wind and brass sections, 
and the strings, which in recent years have 
always been somewhat weak.
The improvement is striking. The sound 
emanating from the strings was rich, beauti­
fully colored, and precise. I don’t know 
whether or not it is Torkanowsky’s doing, 
but I have a hunch he has demanded more 
from the strings than their former conduc­
tor, Istvan Jaray, knew they could give.
Their sound was especially striking on 
the program's second selection, Shostako­
vich’s Piano Concerto No. 1. The soloist 
was the well-known pianist Eugene List, 
who is making a comeback erf sorts after a 
semi-retirement from performing. The con­
certo calls for a string orchestra and trumpet 
soloist to accompany the piano, all of which 
was handled effortlessly by the CMU strings, 
and the talented William Cadman on 
trumpet
The first selection was Prokofiev’s “Suite 
from Romeo and Juliet." Here Torkanows­
ky’s style and sense of humor came imme­
diately to the fore. This piece could easily 
sound turgid and heavy-handed, but under 
Torkanowsky, the orchestra was both brutal 
and tender, actually soaring during the 
“Romeo at Juliet’s Tomb” movement
The highlight of the concert, however, 
was Stravinsky’s “Suite from The Firebird.” 
It is a tour de force for any orchestra, and the 
CMU Philharmonic did it justice. Cer­
tainly, they do not have the sheer virtuosity 
of one of the many great orchestras which 
have recorded this masterpiece, but CMU’s 
MinernThN on wsph 8g
In Concert
CONFERENCE HALL 
MELLON INSTITUTE 
S. BELLEFIELD AVE. 
OAKLAND, PA.
NOVEMBER 19, 1982 8:00 P.M.
FREE ADMISSION
CALL REGE (262-3950) 
FOR MORE INFORMATION
THE SHINE BAND
WRCT 88.3 FM
broadcast each week the
BBC COLLEGE 
CONCERT HOUR
Wed. 9 pm and 
Sat. midnight
This week: Missing Persons.
Check each week’s TARTAN classified sec 
tion for more WRCT specials and features. 
Call 578-2883 or 621 WRCT.
RCT
m9inPb 62r’IF“ . nP ‘DDL

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26—The Tartan—November 2, 1982
Joel's "Nylon Curtain" reminiscent of White Album
By DEBBIE MR
Tartan Staffwriter
“Nylon Curtain” is Billy Joel’s “white 
album.” Not only do many of the songs 
have an uncanny late ’60s Beades quality, 
thanks to the addition of strings and many a 
tort breathed “ooh,” but in his 
most ambitious series of songs 
to date, Joel has forsaked many 
of the distinctive trademarks for 
a new style.
There are none of the intricate, often 
pounding, piano pieces. Missing is Richie 
Cannata and his exhilarating sax solos and 
there are no tall tales in the tradition of the 
futuristic “Miami 2017.” There’s not even a 
hint of the New York in Joel, and no pas­
sion filled songs of the past.
There is however a brutally honest rendi­
tion of the “Angry Young Man” grown up 
and speaking for himself. With eight of the 
nine songs in the first person, Joel is the 
bored, suburbanite street-tough, trying 
viciously to escape society’s web of confor­
mity. “Nylon Curtain” portrays him on the 
verge of being defeated by this stifling 
environment.
The anger on “Nylon Curtain” is not 
only in its flavorful acrid words, but also in a
combination of short phrases, Joel’s 
harsher, more emphatic, barking voice, and 
the cohesiveness of the back-up band. Lib­
erty DeVitto’s pulsating drums, Doug Steg- 
meyer’s bass, Russell Javor’s electric and 
acoustic guitars, and David Brown’s lead 
guitar are as integral a part of the raging 
tone as Joel’s poetic words.
“Allentown” opens the album with a 
train whisde and closes with a steam- 
engined train gaining acceleration. This is 
just one of a few vinyl-wasting sound effects, 
including helicopters, jungle insects, and a 
woman’s voice over an airport intercom.
While precise rhythmic drums create the 
sound of a train engine, Joel’s words on 
“Allentown” spell despair and disaster from 
the first note. Joel, as a young man of the 
factory town, paints an extremely vivid pic­
ture of teachers with empty promises, and 
chances to succeed interrupted by Vietnam, 
closing with “And it’s hard to keep a good 
man down/But I won’t be getting up 
today/And it’s getting very hard to stay/ And 
we’re living here in Allentown,”
Joel's ability to portray this town in all its 
authentic unromanticism stems from his 
own youth in Hicksville, New York, other­
wise known as Allentown minus the
factories.
Joel’s new-found, striking, short stanzas 
are best used in songs dealing with the angry 
young man’s relationship with women. No 
doubt the recent separation from his wife- 
/manager has contributed in turning his 
usually passionate love ballads into songs of 
embittered, slighdy masochistic love.
While “She’s Right On Time” and “Sur­
prise” are uneventful, uncovincing laments, 
the three remaining songs of unwilling 
devotion are small gems.
“Laura” is the story of the thankless 
woman in “She’s Only a Woman” and her 
now less tolerable lover. Joel conveys his 
frustration not only in a hissing, venom 
dripping voice, but also in brilliant graphic 
imagery — “Then these careless fingers- 
/They get caught in her vice/Till they’re 
bleeding/On my coffee table.” “A Room of 
Our Own,” a song of similar themes, is a 
fabulous and twisted rockabilly number 
with Joel’s endless energy unwinding on 
every line. .. ... .
The final track on side two, “Where’s the 
Orchestra?” is his most eloquent love ballad 
since “Souvenirs,” and like "Just the 
Way You Are,” will probably be slaughtered 
by every plasticized Las Vegas entertainer
Hopefully Furs show is better than latest LP
MinernTsN 3Pi, wsph 8a
between stanzas.
At the heart of the criticism of Forever 
Now is distaste for this new sound’s implica­
tion: The Psychedelic Furs are trying to be 
accessible! Why else choose from Todd 
Rundgren’s musical palette rather than 
Steve Lillywhites? But I consider this 
change an uneven experiment with a new 
medium.
The Old Furs may not have been as taste­
ful as some record moguls may have wanted, 
but I think they were a cut above the stand-
aid “angry new band.” They were interest­
ing, possessing a keen appreciation of 
sound. You just had to fall in love with 
India once you felt that droning beat blast 
through the synths and Richard Buder’s 
twisted gut-wrenching cynicism, “I’m Ame­
rican/Ha, Ha, Ha,” daring you to take it all 
seriously.
But it’s hard to take a band seriously if 
they unabashedly rip off their own melody 
from “Love My Way“--a song that some­
how transcends the doo-wah backing
vocals—and slow it down for an even worse 
version on the other side with “No Easy 
Street”.
In anticipation of the concert this Thurs­
day, I let such songs conveniendy escape my 
memory as chaff among a new strain of 
grain. This year’s crop has already produced 
a few changes along the same vein (King
Crimson’s Beat and Gang of Four’s Songs of 
the Free). The rawness erf a live setting could 
bring out the familiar Psychedelic Furs 
sound.
and their grandmothers. An accordian, 
cello, sax (but not Cannata’s) clarinet, strings 
and piano back-up, not overpower, Joel’s 
highly articulate crooning. The song is 
more fulfilling than the light-hearted “Just 
the Way You Are” because of its two-level 
meaning. Literally, we can picture Joel 
excitedly sitting in the balcony of a theatre, ~ 
attending his first show. As the show turns 
out to be a play, not the musical he was 
hoping, he sings, “This my big night on the 
town/My introduction to the theatre 
crowd/I assumed that the show would have 
a song/So I was wrong.”
“Nylon Curtain” is not an album of 
which top 40 singles are made. “Pressure,” 
the semi-successful 45, is Joel’s sarcastic 
answer to people who believe they are totally 
in control of their lives. With a background 
sounding like both a synthesized Vivaldi 
Concert in G and the music for an Excedrin 
commercial, plus a melodica realistically 
creating honking horns, it proves the super­
fluity of the outside sound effects.
Joel has created die most vividly honest 
tribute ever heard to the Vietnam soldiers. 
Unlike the ridiculous, highjinks music of 
Charlie Daniel’s “Still In Saigon,” "Good­
night Saigon” is a Vietnam epic. Its 
methodic piano, drum rolls followed by 
quiet buzzing — the calm after the storm — 
and a fellowship of suffering as his entiir' 
band chants, “And we will all go down 
together,” make this a very depressing song. 
Although "Goodnight Saigon” is not a 
song you’re likely to replay over and over, 
you’ll probably wear down the grooves on 
this deeply involved album within a week.
Concert good
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph 8C
group took the intelligent choice of going \ 
for a secure sound. They achieved that anu % 
more. The finale was especially moving, 
and Torkanowsky and the orchestra took 
several well-deserved bows, the conductor 
having the students stand by section.
If you have never heard the CMU Philhar­
monic, I suggest you do so. They usually 
play at Carnegie Hall, which is on Forbes 
Ave., in the same building as the Museum of 
art and the Carnegie Library, across the 
street from the Cathedral of Learning. The
concerts are free, and mainly on Sunday 
evenings. This ensemble deserves more stu-;; 
dent support.
Poet reads
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph 8a
the publication of Girlfriends and Wives. 
These works included “Kick the Can,” a 
poem about a childhood game that Wallace 
used to play and “Hurricane,” a poem that 
relays the story of a man witnessing the 
destruction of a hurricane.
Wallace was bom in Missouri, anu 
through a scholarship, attended Harvard 
University, from where he received his 
Bachelor of Art. In addition, he graduated 
from Cambridge University in England 
with a Master of Art. He is presently a pro­
fessor of English at Case-Western Reserve in 
Cleveland, Ohio.
i
ctthp9hnv Ii,hn71 RhnehP
sn out pitient medial clinic offering
( syiPerin MiTn1htrnp ( 3Phh wPhpnsnMv eh1r1
( whP1inst MiTn1htrnp ( yrPe9 MinePit 1hPbrMh1
( pvnhMitiprMst MsPh
fg8’8284 
mPhpnsnMv .h1ernp RhnehP
2*1 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213
“oa8” gdA’.xL.
I Center
Mtdkal tun« tad SuMing fmtlMMM* llight (Mi Howl lit North WhalxW M»e*t ffmWgh. PA ism
If you are graduating with a degree in Electrical Engineering, Computer Science 
Chemical Engineering or a related discipline, we invite you to make the formula 
work for you Check out an Intel career We II offer you some straight talk 
pbout advancement based on achievement at Intel facilities in Arizona. California, 
New Mexico. Oregon and Texas
SIGN UP FOR CAMPUS INTERVIEWS NOVEMBER 12
>u can t meet with our recruiters send us your resume outlining your career goals 
:are of INTEL COLLEGE RELATIONS to the location of your choice Arizona 
ew Mexico. 5000 West Williams Field Rd Chandler. AZ 85224 California 3065 
Bowers Ave Santa Clara CA 95051 Oregon. 5200 N E Elam Young Parkway, 
Hillsboro, OR 97123, Texas, 12675 Research Blvd . Austin, TX 78766 
We are an equal opportunity employer
intel
winners by design

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
AC Title chances slimmed as CMU is upset 14-7
JEFFERY BERGMAN
Sports Editor 
Well Tartan fans, you can just about 
the 1982 football season.
looked so promising in the beginning, 
juts of Duquense and Grove City, the 
of All-PAC receiver Mark LePosky 
a young aggressive defense that silenced 
critics worried about the inexperience in 
Plaid Curtain.
, with the combination of injur- 
to the linebacking core and an air of 
among the players, the season 
is turned sour.
Last Saturday, Case Western Reserve, the 
yrtner perennial doormats of the league, 
imtmuscled and outplayed CMU in a close 
-7 win. That coupled with Hiram’s 14-13 
over the Bethany Bisons leaves the Ter- 
in sole possession of first place with a
1 record. Case and CMU are tied for 
with identical 4-2 records. The only
way the Tartans have a chance to still be #1 
in the PAC is to hope that Allegheny defeats 
Hiram next week and that both CMU and 
Case win to set up a three way tie for first 
place.
The game in Cleveland was one full of 
turnovers. Quarterback Bill Kiselick’s usual 
accurate arm was no where to be found. 
Snake was intercepted many a time halting 
crucial scoring drives and repeatedly over­
threw open receivers.
The blame, though, can’t totally fall on 
the shoulders of Kiselick. First there’s the 
punt coverage unit. Both Case touchdowns 
were set up by long punt returns, both by 
standout running back Jim Donnelley. The 
second one being the more spectacular as the 
regular returner caught the kick from Tar­
tan punter Mike O’Ship and then passed the 
ball across the field to Donnelley who 
returned it 25 yards to the CMU 45 yard line. 
From there the Spartans rolled through the
Plaid Curtain, which led by Joe Nardone 
and Lee Ferketic had an impressive day and 
ended up with a one yard touchdown 
plunge by Keith Sullivan. The big play on 
the drive was Q.B. Fred DiSanto’s pass to 
Dave Stucynski which moved the ball down 
to the Tartans 10 yard line.
Second to be blamed is the offensive line. 
The pass protection for Snake was awful as 
Kiselick was sacked or pressured numerous 
times throughout the ballgame. The run­
ning game, at times powerful, was very 
inconsistent, especially in the second half. 
The missed blocks and the lackluster play 
added up to a stalled last minute drive in 
which Kiselick tried to pull another one out 
of the hat like at W8cJ but failed.
Though it sounds like CMU was blow- 
nout, as the score indicates, they weren’t. 
The first half was turnover dty as neither 
squad could push the ball over the goal line. 
Safety Tim Griffith and comerback Jim
Christ' both halted scoring drives by inter­
cepting Spartan passes deep in CMU terri­
tory. The half ended 0-0.
Case got on the scoreboard first in the 
second half on a lucky break. With second 
down at the Tartan’s 10 yard line, DiSanto 
handed the ball off to Donnelley who 
fumbled it on the 7 yard line after a hard hit 
As the ball bounded towards the end zone, it 
looked like safety Andy Rossi had it in his 
hands, but it squirmed away from him and 
into the arms of tight end Kevin Conway for 
a touchdown.
CMU knotted the score at 7 as Snake and 
Co. executed a 47 yard drive in 9 plays culmi­
nating with a yard run by Mike Garverick. 
The key plays in the drive were two clutch 
passes to tight end Harley Carrol.
It then looked as if the Tartans had the 
momentum, but Donnelley’s punt return 
took the air out of CMU’s sail for the game 
and perhaps the season.
CMU ties John Carroll
photo by Gaie Yonish
Tomlinson goes airborne and outheads his opponents.
By PHILIP CASTLE
Tartan StaffivrUer
The game was a battle from the first whis- 
de to the last horn, and yet did not resemble 
the battles found in history books for there 
were no weapons.
The game could not be represented in a 
Picasso or Rembrandt for the true beauty of 
the batde was in the warriors’ intensity and 
determination. The game and batde was 
soccer; a match between the Tartans of 
CMU and John Carroll. Only when the 
horn had blown and the Knights of both 
teams had cleared the field did the electricity 
in the air diminish.
The game started as it would finish with 
close, aggressive play and husde. From the 
beginning, CMU went to their game plan, 
playing their opponents man to man, in 
order to eliminate any advantage in skill 
John Carroll might have. The team from 
John Carroll responded with equal play so 
that the game was no longer man to man 
but shoulder to shoulder and toe to toe.
In the early going, no team was able to 
put together a good offensive attack as John 
Carroll's goalie picked off the long passes 
and CMU’s defense was as solid as ever. 
Finally John Carroll put together a scoring
opportunity in the twentieth minute. Car­
roll’s forward Drew Camey picked up a 
loose ball and passed of to Morty Joseph 
who took the ball from the center of the field 
down deep on the left wing. He then cut 
back towards the middle and passed back to 
Drew Camey who was alone 15 yards out 
and put the shot easily past helpless keeper 
Neil Schlisserman.
That goal gave John Carroll the momen­
tum but the solid defense of CMU withstood 
the attacks. The Tartans got their revenge at 
35:30 as they were given a free kick for an 
obstruction call against John Carroll at the 
top of the penalty box. With the movement 
of CMU’s players confusing the visitors, 
Neal Frank powered the shot home. The 
score remained 1-1 as the half ended without 
either team taking full use of their chances.
CMU took advantage of their good for­
tune as they gave themselves a lead 2-1 at 
12:30. Forward Francisco Quesada leaped 
just above his defenders to head the ball to 
midfield. Ted Andeken then converted the 
opportunity into a goal as it went through 
the hands of frozen keeper Jack Bedell.
Even with the upperhand, CMU could 
not gain control as the visitors still had the 
MinernThN in wsph f4oop practices begin with big expectations
I Carnegie-Mellon University’s 1982-83 
•asketball team will begin pre-season drills, 
Monday, November 1, in preparation for its 
ftason opener at Slippery Rock State Col­
lege Saturday, November 27.
With six returning lettermen (three 
fuming starters) and five top-notch new- 
¦>mers, head coach Dave Maloney enters his 
[ighth season at CMU with an 81-69 overall 
cord (.540) and 63-35 slate (.643) in Presi­
dent's Athletic Conference play.
Leading the Tartans will be sophomore 
rd Greg Gabriel (5-9, 150, Uniontown, 
PA) and senior forwards Carl Mulac (6-4, 
|W> Pittsburgh, PA) and Kevin Resnik (6-4, 
White Oak, PA). Gabriel, an Adminis- 
ttion and Management Science major 
a 3.6 QPA, led CMU in assists with 99 
pg) last season and was third on the 
im in scoring with 13.6 ppg. Mulac, a 
P^uate of Plum High School, led the Tar- 
,'ls m scoring with 15.9 ppg and was 
LI s third leading rebounder with 5.3 
ifds a contest. Resnik, majoring in chem* 
¦¡Engineering (3.2 QPA), averaged 8.1 
ppg and 5.9 rpg last year.
1 ^r returning lettermen include junior
guard Peter Bennett (6-0, 155, Pittsburgh, 
PA), senior center Randy Hudson (6-7,185, 
Rankin, PA) and sophomore guard Herb 
Sendek (6-1, 175, Verona, PA).
Freshmen who are expected to contribute 
are guards Ray Brennan (6-2, 180, Pitts­
burgh, PA), and Rob Kukowski (6-2, 185, 
Natrona Heights, PA), forwards George 
Debski (6-4, 175, Bethel Park, PA) and Scott 
Saxton (6-5, 205, York, PA) and center Rick 
Neff (6-6, 190, Gaithersburg, MD).
Brennan averaged 18 ppg at Chartiers 
Valley High School last year and partici­
pated in the “Colt Classic”. Kukowski 
scored 15 ppg for Highlands High, com­
peted in the “Colt Classic” and was voted to 
the Pittsburgh Press’ “Brain Team.” 
Debski, a graduate of Seton-LaSalle High 
School, averaged 16 points and 9 rebounds a 
game, competed in the “Colt Classic” and 
made both the Pittsburgh Press’ “Brain 
Team” and the South Hills Record’s All- 
Star squad. Saxton scored 14 ppg and 
grabbed 10 bounds a game for York Subur­
ban High while Nett was averaging 11 
points and 11 rebounds a contest for Gai- 
thersburgh High.
photo by Gene Yorush
(10) Soph. Greg Gabriel and (34) senior Carl Mulac will be back again to lead the Tartans.

---------------------------------------------------

Clip this ad Send it to dad Get yourself an off-cam
Now it's easy at Calais Village 
Condominium. Because we've devel­
oped a plan that, in conjunction with 
the Economic Recovery Act of 1981. 
makes it possible for buyers of con­
dominiums to create tax losses wrhen 
renting those condominiums to rela­
tives or co-owners.
The plan also permits acceler­
ated depreciation, which allows the 
owner of a rental property to write 
off its value in 15 years instead of 
25 to 40 years. That means a king- 
size annual tax deduction for your 
parents. And best of all. a beautiful 
apartment home for you at Calais 
Village featuring:
• Heated outdoor swimming pool 
with adjoining bathhouse • Saunas
• Lighted tennis court • Private 
heated indoor parking • Comfort­
ably furnished entertainment 
rooms with wide-screen TV, custom 
made billiard table, card tables, and 
cocktail bar • Picnic and barbeque 
areas • Commuter transportation at 
your front door
So what are you w’j\tiSlHw. 
instead of asking for more money, 
you can write home and tell your 
parents how to get in on some major 
tax and equity benefits.
Visit our Sales Center from 10 am to 7 pm Monday 
through Friday. 10 am to 6 pm Saturday, and 11 am 
to 6 pm Sunday.
Directions: North on Route 19. pass Pines P|a/a Shopping 
Center onto Highland Road Ijust before the water tower|. 
Lett on Highland to Sloop Road. Lett on Sloop Road to 
Calais Drive. Follow siyns to the Sales Center.
Presented by BJF Development. Inc. on behalf of 
the Prudential Insurance Company 
of America
( ONIX)MINU M
595 Calais Drive. Pittsburgh, PA 15237 
Telephone: (412) 367-0777

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 29
evening. 
Rowing 
the last
fees to tin 
questions 
I Water I
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re­
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair.
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
OAKLAND 
Next to Arby’s 
681-2202 or 681-2203
Pizza
^0>BWF
LDcVV
DxkB0D
VcF%x
)’VcF%x
LARGE SELECTION OF EXTRAS
Hoagies
PEPPERONl - MUSHROOMS • SAUSAGE - 
GREEN PEPPERS - ONIONS • ANCHOVIES 
BLACK OLIVES • EXTRA CHEESE • 
HOT PEPPER RINGS
B.cVBc> 
‘W. Lc0Lc%x 
Dxc. UcVV 
RcmBRWVVW 
L.xcq
D0L‘FWWD L.xcq 
‘cDzR‘xxLx 
FWcL. Uxx­ 
LcVcDB
J0cF.xF mW0>kxF
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
¡(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
NO
APPOINTMENT
Non., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
hurs., Fri. 10-9 
at. 9-6
(&enmCHfCCTlTVtftS
PHECSON HAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
687-3500 Oakland Post Office
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
BfbfC Tmo pyo I Nf-f-1 DHm-1g
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
0£Free Delivery
Business Hours 
Sundays 2:00 P.M. ~ 2:00 A.M.
Mon. - Tues. - Wed. 10:00 A M. - 2 00 A M 
T' jrs. - Fri. • Sat. 10:00 A.M. ~ 3:00 A M.
chedules out for IM sports
Comm. Kris Tutde finally got his act 
and the raquetball schedules are 
out this week. Matches will be played 
thru Friday at 5 p.m., 7 p.m., and 9 
Please turn in the winning scores as 
as possible to the IM office.
Tennis schedules are also out. First 
games must be played by the week of 
29th. Please report all scores to the IM 
The commissioner is Robert Corbin,
Comm. Nick Kljucaric, x4276, of Soccer, 
like all equipment to be returned to 
shed followiong the last game of the 
Teams must officiate the game fol- 
their game. The teams playing in 
game of the night must referee the 
one. Please note the winning team and 
on the score sheet.
matches will be rolled at Strand 
Saturday mornings. Please pay all 
to the Strand Alleys. If there are any 
call Comm. Dave Hecht x2258. 
Polo playoffs will begin Nov. 10th 
8:30 p.m. so please get all your make up 
in.
are due Nov. 4th for 3 Person Vol- 
witfe Comm. Joe Bares x3405, Darts, 
Ri,,H Sheila Dunham, x4724, and 
ickgammon, which needs a Comm.
The next board meeting will take place 
iov. 4th at IKK) p.m. in the IM office.
earn volleyball
AJOR LEAGUE (G) WIN LOSS
eta XI-A 0 1
USTALAR 2 0
[bach’s All Stars 0 1
WOMEN’S LEAGUE (W)WIN LOSS
)elta Gamma 2 1
piked Punch 2 1
larry’s Tavern 2 1
Vo Name 0 3
LEAGUE“H”WINLOSS
Theta XI-B00
KI1LIU00
GSIA00
Bossmen-II01
Whankers10
Phi Kap-A00
LEAGUE “K”WINLOSS
Bossmen-I02
The Studs11
KE-A30
Seven 8c Seven21
EAE02
MINOR LEAGUE (M)WINLOSS
DU-II11
Nads11
Bossmen-III20
Farting Armadillos11
Pi Lambda Phi-B02
Pi Lambda Phi-C11
LEAGUE “J”WINLOSS
DU-I01
The Networkers00
SUPAPUPS00
Spikes City01
Thump Mores20
Pi Lambda Phi11
LEAGUE “L”WINLOSS
Army ROTC02
KE-B11
ZBT-A12
Buster’s30
Harry’s Tavern11
Water polo
WINLOSS
Computer Science70
PKT62
PLP15
SAE51
Theta Xi08
ZBT26
The buggies are coming out of die woodwork as preparations begin for fall Free Roll.Varsity sports roundup
Volleyball (4-8) In volleyball action Jane 
Fisk’s squad fell to Bethany and Seton Hill 
Colleges last Wednesday, but detea ted 
La Roche College 3-0 this past Fr’day. The 
Tartans will visit W8cJ and Carlow Colleges 
this Thursday, October 28 and Wheeling 
College Saturday, October 30. CMU will 
end its ‘82 season with the Pennwood West 
Conference Championships Saturday, 
November 6.
Field Hockey (8-1) The Pennwood West 
Conference Champions finished their sea­
son with a 3-0 win over Westminister last 
Friday. The Tartan attack this year was led
by senior captain Beth MacElwee (Norwalk, 
CT), junior Peggy Kennefick (Franklin, 
MA) and freshman Lynne Otto (Whippany, 
NJ).
Pittsburgh is our home. Let’s clean house!
Pittsburgh Clean City Committee. Inc

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30—The Tartan—November 2, 1982CMU soccer action: Booters tied on late goal
MinernThN 3Pi, wsph 8A
edge. Slowly as the showdows crossed the 
field, the opposition began to press as they 
felt dme slip by. Many fine opportunities for 
John Carroll were broken up by the heads 
up play erf Keeper Neil Schlisserman. With 
only 7:30 left to play and the game seem­
ingly in hand, the gutsy John Carroll team 
tied the score at 2-2. A beaten defender and a 
break-away score were the culprits as the 
game went to overtime.
When play resumed for the two ten min­
ute periods, the participants were playing by 
the desire to win alone. Again the Tartans 
took control and had several chances to go 
up by one but again they were thwarted.
Then in one brief moment the score and 
advantage belonged to CMU. Sweeper Neal 
Frink took a free kick and sent the ball high 
in the air towards the right post. Charles 
Lockheed, surrounded by defenders, soared 
high above all to put a header into the oppo­
site side of the net.
The score remained the same till the close 
of the first overtime period despite the efforts 
of the visitors. The players switched sides 
and the referees called for play to begin. Play
was quite even as the Tartans tried to control 
the play and John Carroll was looking to 
tie.
CMU was helped by the husde erf the 
reserves, especially midfielder Hal Schenk. 
With a mere 5 minutes left, all again seemed 
fine until luck went bad. A scramble in front 
of the Tartan net and an opportunistic John 
Carroll player resulted in the score being 
notched at 3.
Joe Freshman
STviDUITS A6MN.
Qotft ujorry.
Once ny -WHon raise 
goes +VougV>7+Vie 
ones <Jr\o are prote&g 
"Hit nos* o« +Ve ones 
uA»o ujoh'1 fee Kere.
This was the final game of the season for 
CMU as they finished with a 6-5-3 record 
(3-1-2 in the PAC). John Carroll ended up 
with a 7-4-2 mark (4-0-2 in the PAC). It was 
the last game in Tartan uniform for crafty 
and clever forward Francisco Quesade, stal­
wart defender and co-captain Dave Jacobs, 
and Joel Dreskin.
In a post game interview, Neil Frink com­
mented, “We are definitely an improving
team. We were anxious at the beginning of 
the season. We had the possibility of being 
good. There were ups and downs in the 
beginning of the season but the last several 
games we’ve gotten it together.” When 
asked about next season, he added, “Next 
year we should have a really good team 
Coach Gaudiso will go out and get sc 
good freshman who will really help 
team.”
n 
oel
/yy ¿/p) 1
ft -)&\M -
by Mark Levine
Besidea,once 4We’s o 
¦ferninol In every roon, 
you won'f even need 
s4uden^s <myrnore.„
//¿ if/
¦w
//
be
/
rr ni «iï
Drexel
University
¦>
The Graduate School 
Drexel University
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104 (215) 895-2400
By the year 2026 most members of the class of 1983 will be retired. What will you do with the next four decades? What contributions can you make toward a more efficient and safe technology for society in the 21 st century?
When the 21st century rolls in, most of you will be at the height of your careers. Tomorrow’s leaders in business, government, and education need the specialization of a master’s degree to deal with tomorrow’s advanced technology
Drexel realizes that technology is an innovation of man to be used in the best interests of mankind. It is an extension of man’s capabilities, not a substitution for them. You are invited to expand your capabilities through graduate study at Drexel.
Most of the Master’s programs are offered on both a part-time and full­time basis. The graduate curricula and degrees offered by Drexel are as follows:
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS AND ADMINISTRATION 
Business Administration Executive Management Program Advanced Professional Certificate Program
DEGREE:
MBA, M.S., Ph.D.MBA (Saturday’s only) (Post-Master’s Level)
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Chemical Engineering 
Civil EngineeringElectrical & Computer Engineering
Materials EngineeringMechanical Engineering and Mechanics
M.S., Ph.D. 
M.S., Ph.D. M.S., Ph.D. 
M.S., Ph.D. 
M.S., Ph.D.
COLLEGE OF HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE 
Arts Administration 
Technical & Science Communication
M.S.
M.S.
SCHOOL OF LIBRARY & INFORMATION SCIENCEM.S., Ph.D.
MULTIDISCIPLINARY PROGRAMS
Biomedical Engineering and Science 
Clinical Engineering 
Engineering Management Environmental Engineering and Science
M.S., Ph.D.
M.S.M.S. (part-time program) 
M.S., Ph.D.
NESBITT COLLEGENutrition and Food Sciences Design (Fashion and Interior) Human Behavior and Development 
General Home Economics
M.S.
M.S. (full-time only) 
M.S.
M.S.
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
Bioiogical Sciences Chemistry Computer Science 
MathematicsPhysics and Atmospheric Science
M.S., Ph.D. 
M.S., Ph.D. M.S.
M.S., Ph.D. M.S., Ph.D.
Fill-in, clip-out, and return to the Office of Graduate Admissions, Drexel University, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104.
Please forward information and an application on Graduate study in the 
field(s) of: __________________________
NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY & STATE:ZIP CODE
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For y tH-Vfug-Cfy, Vofg-u ty,,j
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
A charismatic 
_ .prayer meetin 
(Jjevery Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information; 
262-3950.

---------------------------------------------------

November 2, 1982—The Tartan—Page 31
If you’ve always looked for what’s around the 
comer rather than what is straight ahead, consider a 
career with Linkabit.
Linkabit didn’t get to where it is today by way of 
tunnel vision. We’re a leader in the design, 
development and manufacture of satellite and 
terrestrial communications equipment, specializing in 
local communication networks, encryption, forward 
error correction and high speed modulation. Our 
people are very creative, free thinking individuals 
who look beyond obvious solutions to find advanced, 
innovative ways to meet the demanding needs of this 
industry.
To help keep new ideas flowing, we’ve made sure 
that all career paths are flexible. Our engineers, for 
instance, are assigned to projects depending on their 
interests and abilities. As one assignment is 
completed, new opportunities are made available in a 
variety of areas.
Because our projects are very diverse and 
complex, we utilize the most advanced equipment 
available. And our staff is comprised of professionals
with a wide range of expertise.
Our company is expanding rapidly, and were 
constantly looking for talented people interested in 
communications systems, digital hardware or 
software engineering. We have positions available in 
San Diego, Boston and Washington, D.C.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19.
Please contact your College Placement Officer to 
arrange an interview appointment. If you are unable 
to meet with our representatives, please forward your 
resume to: Dennis Vincent, M/A-COM LINKABIT, 
3033 Science Park Road, San Diego, CA 92121.
M/A-COM LINKABIT, INC.
Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
|Vhose Life Is It Anyway?, written by Brian 
lark, will be performed November 5 and 6 at 
enn Junior High on Duff Road, Penn Hills.
¦ jrtain is at 8 p.m.
Tickets will ONLY be available at the Box 
tffice the nights of the performances, at a cost of
4.00 for adults and 13.00 for Senior Citizens 
jver 65) and students.
he Greg Green way Band Thursday, November£
9:30 p.m., Rea Hall Coffeehouse, Chatham
lege.
Faculty recital by Henry Spinelli will include 
works by Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Chopin, and 
Brahms. Sunday, November 14,4 p.m., Chatham 
College Chapel.
JITNEY will play through November 20 at the 
Fine Line Cultural Center, 3300 Fifth Avenue in 
Oakland. For reservations and information call 
621-9364.
The New Jerusalem Players, a drama team of 
Jewish people with a faith in Christ, will present 
a program of Jewish Gospel Drama at Episcopal 
Church of the Ascension (located on Ellsworth 
and Neville) on Friday, November 5, 7:30 p.m. 
Admission is free.
The Pittsburgh Savoyards presents Gilbert and 
Sullivan’s magical operetta The Sorcerer. Honor 
the witching season with this Halloween treat of 
music and magic as the Savoyards present The 
Sorcerer at Central Catholic High School audito­
rium through November 7. For reservations call 
361-0873.
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble featuring 
tenor Paul Sperry and soprano Lynne Webber. 
Sunday, November 21, 8 p.m., Chatham College 
Chapel.
Waiting in the Wings by Sir Noel Coward. Fri­
day, November 19, and Saturday, November 20,8 
p.m., Eddy Theatre at Chatham College.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society of Pitts­
burgh opens its 14th subscription series of four 
concerts with “Gargantua and Pantagruel”.. . a 
“Renaissance Vaudeville,” to be performed by 
the New York Renaissance Band on Saturday, 
Nov. 6 at 8:30 p.m. in Synod Hall, Oakland. 
All Renaissance 8c Baroque Society concerts will 
be performed at 8:30 p.m. at Synod Hall, Oak­
land, adjacent to St Paul’s Cathedral cm Craig 
Street Subscription ticket information can be 
obtained by writing the R. 8c B. Society of Pgh., 
Box 10156, Pgh., PA, 15232 or calling 731 -3944 or 
371-2671. Individual tickets will also be on sale at 
the door prior to performances.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
Immigration and Citizenship Law No charge for 
initial consultation - attorneys Gary Steiner and 
Robert Creo - call anytime 281-4130.
Get a Phillip Pelusi haircut for $8.00! Register 
for haircutting sessions. Call salon nearest you 
for information and registration. Squirrel Hill 
521-1200; Bank Center 261 -6550; Century III Mall 
655-1940; Village Square Mall 833-6770.
Professional typing and word processing. Fast, 
efficient, reasonable. Speeches, manuscripts, 
research papers, term papers. 24 hr. service. Satis­
faction guaranteed. For best results call Ms. West. 
371-3657.
Guitar lessons - Classical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
CMU music student. l/i hr. - $6; 1 hr. - $10. Call 
Jozsef Toth - 683-7331.
Improve your grades! Research catalog — 306 pages 
- 10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 25097C, Los 
Angeles, CA 90025 (213) 477-8226.
Professional typing, word processing: thesis, 
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters 
ets. (MLA — APA 8c Turabian strongly oberved.) 
Large variety of typefaces and 24 hour service 
available. Call Mrs. West. 371-3657. Satisfaction 
guaranteed.
general
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday November 8, 
1982. Students who wish to meet with the presi­
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
Any undergraduates who are interested in forn) 
ing an Asian Student Organization, please cor^ 
to a meeting on Nov. 5, 1982 in front of p^j jq 
(Gregg Hall). Those who are unable to come by 
are still interested, please contact Mike x8634 o 
Herman x8913.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 in the Wherrett room. Students are invited to 
come and address the Senate during audience 
participation.
The Mortar Board Word of the tyeel 
Atrabilious— having a peevish disposition; djs 
contented. Usage example: The boy who foi]^ 
beginners swimming was atrabilious.
Representatives of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
Pennsylvania Society of Professional Engineers
will discuss careers in engineering and the advan­
tages of professional registration. Learn how to 
arrange to take the EIT examination. Thursday, 
November 4, 1982, Skibo Room 13 (near the 
banking machines), stop in anytime between 2:30 
p.m. and 4:30 p.m. Handouts and application 
forms for the EIT examination will be available.
Rugby Club - Rugby practice every Tuesday and 
Friday at 4:30 p.m., Flagstaff hill. All newcomers 
invited.
CMU Rugby Club vs. Pittsburgh Harlequins, 
Oct. 30th.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, will hold open 
office hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30 - 
3:30, BH 260.
Join the Academic Bag Ladies over a meal at the 
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland, Thurs., November 4 from 12-1 p.m. or 
4-6 p.m. Low cost meals available from 11:30- 
1:15 or bring a bag meal. We’ll set further days 
and times. For more information, call 682-6886.
IEEE Meeting. Dr. Chen from General Electric'. 
Research and Development Center will preset 
“GE Careers— An Engineer’s Perspective” - 
6:30 p.m. in the chapter room of the PIKA frater­
nity house. Everyone is invited. Refreshments 
will be served. A brief precede Dr. Chen’s talk
B’nai B’rith Hillel Activities
Wednesday, Nov. 3— 8:00 p.m. study break a 
CMU Hillel House, 133 Margaret Morriso 
Apts. Every Wednesday evening this month. 
Thursday, Nov. 4— 8:00 p.m. Masada/HilS 
Forum “Jewish Identity on Campus.” Davi( 
Lawrence Hall, University of Pittsburgh. 
Friday, Nov. 5— 5:30 p.m. Shabbat services, 6:3 
p.m. Shabbat dinner. Hillel Dining Center,^ 
S. Bellefield St., 3rd floor for reservations, “ 
Ravinngs,
Sunday, Nov. 7— 10:00 a.m. Trip to Laurel Ca> 
ems, departing from Oakland Jewish Commm 
ity Center. Bring your own lunch. RSV 
621-8875. Returning by 8:00 p.m.; 5:00 p.n 
Poale Zedeck Dinner Forum “Orthodox Juck 
ism” Hillel Dining Center, 315 S. Bellefield, Si 
floor. Reservations 621-8875.
SQAWK!Au
Help put order into our lives. 
Join the Tartan production staff.
Show up anytime after 2 p.m. any Sunday in Skibo 50.Ifektronix
COMMITTED TO EXCELLENCE
Students needed to demonstrate Mattel Elec­
tronic Intellivision at the retail level. 15 to 20 
hours per week, evenings and weekends, Nov. 17 
to Christmas $5/hour plus travel expenses. If 
interested, please come to Hilton Inn Airport, 
Route 60 off Parkway, between 1 and 5 p.m. and 6 
and 8 p.m. on Nov. 9.
Audio Recording Hempfield Recording Lex­
icon, Delta Lab, Sennheiser and Neumann. 
Small 8-track studio including “State of the Arts” 
outboard equipment. Create excellent sees. 864- 
0787.
MARCY BAUGHMAN: this is a clue. Have you 
guessed yet?— Love Big Sis.
Huge room for rent in beautiful Squirrel Hill 
Apartment. Share 1H baths, livingroom, sun- 
room kitchen. 140/month + utilities. 422-1317.
CMU Skiers! Winterbreak ski trip to Killington 
or Smuggler’s Notch ski resorts in Vermont! 5 
days skiing, 5 nights lodging in slopeside condos 
from $156. CALL (800) 368-2006 TOLL FREE 
ASK- FOR NANCY. Go with friends or organize 
a small group and ski for free.
To the Halloween cheerleader from two years 
ago. The past two years have been great. Hope 
the next one is just as good. Love from a future 
nurse at Carlow.
Available immediately. Furnished efficiencies, 
share/bath, 5 min. from CMU campus. Referen­
ces required. $150 8c $175, utilities included. Call 
621-0815 between 9 8c 4.
Juicers - New and Uncrated Champion $160.00; 
Acme $120.00. 521-9555.
AUDITIONS FOR SWING CHOIR Thursday, 
November 11. Beginning at 1:30 p.m. Sign up for 
audition time outside MM 119. Bring two con­
trasting pieces. For more information call Pat 
Phillips x5997 or Diana DiMarzio x4271.
A nondenominational Bible discussion group 
meets every Monday evening at 9, in Room 39,
WRCT (88.3 FM) features—
... Wed. (9 p.m.) Nov. 3 and 
BBC COLLEGE CONCERT 
ing Persons recorded live in concert.
... everyday (noon, 7 p.m.,
BLIMP— a look at today’s world.
... everyday (noon, 3 p.m., 6 p.m.): 
SPORTS AND WEATHER on WRCT.
... almost all the time: NEW WAVE (at least ne 
music) AT 88.3 FM, WRCT.
TEK CAREERS
>ibh,yhPa2d8
LD.I.­La8foCgAdaa4aaa8afaoaCagaAada2848a888f8o8C8g8A8d82f4
Women - are you. .. over 25 and back in school? 
Retooling for a new career? Back in grad school? 
Do you lack a network? Would you like a support 
group? Are you hungry? Are you lonely? Join the 
Academic Bag Ladies. For more information, 
call 682-6886.
Free mailed Bible correspondence course, home 
Bible study or counselling from the word of God, 
write: Church of Christ, P.O. Box 10542, Pgh., 
Phone: 795-2560.
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F/H
If your discipline is Electrical Engineering, Computer 
Science, or Physical Science, contact the Career 
Planning and Placement Center to schedule your 
interview with a Tektronix College Relations 
Representative.
.... m mm » m - » ¦ m- m- m CAMPUS CONVENIENCERcVV CAL’828aCMU TRAVEL OFFICESKIBO 40A
