¦ tartan
this week
¦¦taa ¦rntFe buuyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy1t0n b,
976V oe ¦tlFyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy1t0n m
N8ccidpg svS wonve  yyyyyyyyyy1t0n P
February 10, 1976 Volume 76 Number 18
Housing Figures Released
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Réévaluation figures and preliminary 
room rates for CMU dorms have finally 
been released by Campus Services. The 
Campus Services Board claims to have e- 
nough space for 2,108 people, approxi­
mately 50 more than were in residence in 
September, 1975, and 208 more than are 
currently in residence now.
The average room price is up by ten per­
cent. Standard doubles (room for two with 
common bath) have a proposed increase of 
$75, to $850. Singles might go up $105 
(common bath) to $1000, or $100 (private 
bath) to $1100. The proposed rate for an 
efficiency apartment is also $1100, even 
though an apartment has a kitchen. One 
and two bedroom apartments are tentative­
ly set for $1200. There are some rooms in 
lower price brackets; for example, thete are 
“budget” rooms, where a budget room 
means one with smaller square footage per 
occupant, a bad floor plan, or other “in­
conveniences.” Rates per occupant for 
these rooms have tentatively been set at 
$600 for a quad, $700 for a triple, $775 
for a double, and $900 for a single. Other 
proposed rates include $675 for a standard 
double and $775 for a standard triple. 
Prime rooms (ones with private or semipri­
vate bath, or a very high rate of space to 
people,) are set for 775/quad, 850/triple 
and 900/double. Dean Williams of Resi­
dence Life, a member of the Campus 
Services Board and on the administrative
rate committee told SDC at their meeting 
on Feb. 9, “These are not fixed prices. 
Nobody needs to get upset. Wait until 
Tuesday.” (The day rates will be finalized). 
However, when he was questioned by the 
TARTAN about the possibility of the rates 
being lowered when he had already claimed 
that it was necessary for them to be raised 
to cover rate increases in utilities, mainte­
nance, and other areas, he admitted that it 
was unlikely that overall rates would be 
lowered.
If the preliminary housing budget for
next year is approved, housing will be 
taking in $1,709,000, $176,600 or 17% 
more than this year.
Examination of retention figures used 
to project occupancy levels used reveals 
that while a retention rate of 60% (of peo­
ple living in dorms in September, 1975) 
was used for next year’s sophomores and 
juniors, 73% was used for seniors. No rea­
son was given for this inconsistency. Based 
on these retention rates, 788 new fresh­
men, 250 graduates, and 80 transfers, there 
continued on page seven
Photo by John Shettel 
Mnt7 IoaaotAeg h.SDS6V 7nn6e TS 0nT B1enTy ItoT
B7Toa sBne6tVyOfKaplan Leads MIS Dean Search
by Chip Yeager
The moribund search for a new Dean 
for MIS is starting up again this week, with 
the appointment of a new head for the 
search committee. Professor Mort Kaplan, 
of the Chemistry Department accepted the 
job at the request of President Richard 
Cyert and Provost Edward Schatz, and has 
outlined his plan to complete the search 
process soon.
Kaplan, who served on the committee 
last year in connection with the MIS 
Faculty Organization, will work with the 
five department heads of MIS (Physics, 
Math, Biology, Chemistry, and Computer 
Science) as well as four other faculty 
members, two of who will be from MIS 
and two from outside that school. In addi­
tion, Kaplan got approval from Schatz and 
Cyert to bring in two students on the
committee, graduate and undergraduate. 
Both students will be in MIS, he said, and 
he will choose them after talking to several 
students on his own.
The students will be part of the newly 
reorganized search committee: the commit­
tee as formed last year came up with some 
fifty names of candidates who, according 
to Math Department Head George Fix, 
were “very good, but not that good.” 
Said Fix, “What we want is someone 
who’s both a scholar and an administrator. 
The chemistry department would question 
someone who, say, had a background in 
biology alone. He’d have to have a back­
ground in all fields here. People like that 
are hard to find.”
Some impetus to resume the search may 
have come from a letter to Cyert from the 
MIS Faculty Organization. According to 
one of the signers of that letter, Physics
Slow Progress Made In Arch. Dept.
by Michael Bauer
The architecture department has been 
faced with a number of problems in recent 
years, the nature of which can most easily 
be termed financial. Last semester, they 
came to a head with the majority of stu­
dents petitioning for the “quality educa­
tion” which they felt they were being de­
prived of. Their complaints centered 
around a general “lack of organization 
within the departmental administration”, a 
“lack of cooperation or communication 
among the Administrations of the Univer­
sity, the Department, the faculty, and the 
students”,“an ingrown faculty, with about 
nine of twenty-five members graduates of 
this department”, the low quality of the
facilties and the scattering of these facili­
ties, “the overcrowding of the freshman 
class without proportional increase in 
facilities, budget, or faculty ...”
In order to assess the progress that has 
been made since October, the Tartan spoke 
with Professor Highlands, Chairman of the 
Architecture Department, and Todd 
Havekotte, the ad hoc leader of the com­
mittee of “;nterested” students. Both of 
these people cited changes that have 
occured since then, primarily with respect 
to the improved relationship among 
department students, faculty, and admini­
stration. Student representatives have been 
elected and meet each week, both by 
themselves and with the faculty, to discuss 
the continuing problems within the de­
partment. According to Mr. Havekotte, 
“we are trying to work within the system 
to bring about improvements in the de-
partment . . . Progress is very slow, but the 
situation is at least under control now.” 
One of the major gripes had been that 
the members of the faculty, and particular­
ly Dr. Highlands, were spending too much 
time outside school engaged in their pro­
fessional careers. As a result, student and 
departmental affairs had been neglected 
Havekotte said that since this complaini 
was made known, both faculty and chair 
man have become more accessible. They 
have also been more receptive to student 
input than before. Havekotte’s major com­
plaint now is that the majority of architec­
ture students have lapsed back into apathy 
since some steps have been taken toward 
the alleviation of departmental hang-ups, 
and the task of setting about to make 
recommendations has been left in the 
hands of the few like himself who remain
continued on page sever
New Physics Degree Program 
To Be Offered Next Semester
xRSTS DV 'olF Nrt7To 
MnaDnrT Lo0Rat76e g Lnt6 of 9rlRoTnlTBrn
by Joseph Bart nick i
A new degree of B.S. in Computation­
al Physics will he offered by the Physics 
Department next year. A desire for this has 
been shown by many CMU students who 
have been trying to arrange something simi­
lar to this for themselves. Also, it has been 
observed that more and more employers 
are seeking graduates with this sort of 
background and training. In the last 3 years 
about 20% of die graduates from CMU 
have gone into employment necessitating 
a working knowledge of computers. A need
for this new program is definitely indicat­
ed.
There are three new courses being of­
fered in Computational Physics. The first 
course Introduction to Computational 
Physics will be offered in the tall. It will be 
concerned with the formulation of physic­
al problems for computation. A student is 
required to have taken Physics I and II, Ex­
perimental Physios, Physical Mechanics, 
Calculus 1 and II and Introduction to Com­
puting A. The second course. Advanced 
Computational Physics, will involve the 
continued on page six
Professor Ray Sorenson, last year’s com­
mittee advertized the vacant post, com­
piled the list of candidates, and then took 
off for the summer, leaving that list alone 
until fall. But the committee never recon­
vened last fall, so Sorenson and other 
faculty members wrote to Cyert asking him 
to get the search effort moving again. The 
letter reached the president a couple of 
weeks ago.
Cyert and Schatz moved to resume the 
search. Professor Kaplan, who will take 
over the job of heading up the committee 
from Acting MIS Dean Schatz remarked 
that Schatz had a great many other things 
to do during his tenure on the committee, 
including his post as a member of the
Pittsburgh Board of Education which re­
cently settled an eight-week teacher’s 
strike. Kaplan himself has many other 
commitments. “I would like to complete 
the process in a couple of months,” he 
says. The “process” is that of soliciting 
more applicants for the post, then winnow­
ing the list, through the committee, down 
to three or so prime candidates, for sub­
mission to Cyert. The president will make 
the final choice and conduct salary and 
other negotiations with the dean-select. 
“Cyert wants a permanent dean, not an 
acting one,” says Kaplan.
Theme Picked
by Paul Smith
Spring Carnival, the annual break of 
madness, before the finals will be April 8,
9, 10. The theme to which all events must 
adhere is American Cities and Towns. Mid­
way, a collection of booths sponsored by 
student organizations, fraternities, and so­
rorities offering various games of chance 
will be called Main Street U.S.A..
Mike Katz, Spring Carnival Chairman, 
pointed out that Spring Carnival is more 
than a Midway; it included buggy races, an 
art show, Gazortching (shooting a water 
balloon as far as possible with a rubber 
band), dances, WRCT on the cut, Glitz (the 
musical by- Scotch and Soda), and fire­
works. Mike said, “It’s more than that, of 
course. It’s also a spirit. The student can re­
lax and unwind and then go back ready for 
finals.”
In an attempt to have something for 
everyone. Spring Carnival will include new 
events, such as an entertainment festival, 
the Park Players on Midway, so that ama­
teur student entertainment will go on con­
tinually. Entertainment planned ranges
continued on |>agi» five

---------------------------------------------------

xt0n E/sLd s9's9."NnDrBtrV bug b•>*
editor’s note
DRAMA'S FOLLIES
The TARTAN has had, over the last few years, a standing 
feud with the CMU Drama Department concerning our re­
viewing the Main Stage productions. Former TARTAN Edi­
tor in Chief Steve Correil summarized the then Head of the 
Drama Department’s arguments as follows:
"Mr. Salsbury’s arguments are, as / understand 
them, that the Department operates in a closed 
environment where its students must be iso­
lated from outside pressure: he does not want 
his students to follow anyone’s advice except 
their teachers’, or his directors to be swayed by 
reviews. ”
These arguments are further illustrated by excerpts 
from two letters to the editor written by Drama Students:
"Unfortunately, it hurts a little to pay money 
to go to school and experiment and grow in the 
theatre, and then have someone print in the 
school newspaper how much they did not like 
your efforts;”
and,
“Just as we would not expect to publish public 
criticism of your work for your Journalism 
class; we ask that you refrain from publicly 
reviewing our classwork. ”
Although the editors of the TARTAN might not have 
fully agreed with this policy, we learned that we had to live 
with it - and we did. The TARTAN has not reviewed any 
Drama Department Productions and we had no intentions of 
doing so. '
But along comes FOL LIES.
The Drama Department, for whatever reason (some say it 
is because the Department is only budgeted for four annual 
productions and is currently planning five for this year; while 
.others say that it is an experiment to see the demand for the 
proposed summer CMU Theatre Company), has decided to 
charge, for admission and has consciously invited the Pitts­
burgh community to attend. This in itself is not opposed to 
the already stated policy, since off-campus theatre goers have 
always been encouraged to support the Drama Productions as 
patrons. What is contradictory, though, is the department’s 
attitude towards reviews of FOLLIES.
Instead of being barred from reviewing FOLLIES, the 
TARTAN was encouraged to do so. What’s more, the TAR­
TAN was only the "Tip of the Iceburg” since the same invi­
tation was extended to all of Pittsburgh’s major critics, with a 
reception after the opening performance given in their behalf.
Although / am by no means complaining about the De­
partment’s new found generosity , / must admit that / am 
extremely baffled by it. Does this represent a change in 
policy? Although the Department might bechargingfor FOL­
LIES, / would assume that, like all other Drama productions, 
it continues to serve as an integral part of the Drama Stu­
dent’s education. Is it now the Department’s policy that 
drama productions can be reviewed; that their students are 
no longer operating in a dosed environment, isolated from 
outside pressure?
Another possibility is that the Department is willing to 
compromise its educational standards in order to bring in 
much needed revenue. The question then is, is the compro­
mise of educational morals an indication of a decline in 
educational quality?
Although / can’t answer these questions, / feel that they 
are as valid as they are interesting. Is the CMU Drama Depart­
ment two-faced or did the “no-review policy” depart with 
Baker Salsbury?
I’ll meet you at the River Niger.
Gary Singer, Editor
w£u,t?Houu7 !¦ '-------— - - TKêMiLpoK, \StrtC&FBLl OCH'T .to piNP 
byCC
StfaW l LOOK ..
s8 uoot-'ofz- i ^Bps
vOAlX i>? STAINS W 
ÜVPL H%eUT oJr\ dr
<X\6?op, I HACe 
VAt£*X]H&'5 PM ''
V
Ho,(to, { snoUD HOT LOOk lh[ THE
/MlB/Ml BASix 
TWO weeK6»Atfp 
0Y THEN I vMT 
£l/6W CAKE...
•>*
fònfl fHt/nA-ly urmivwt
Ad weu*/6s re/ f KN£w tm 
TçJevM iveerAcAKDbH 
Strevues 
& Md..
i 6AN HARt)Uy /3ËAD IT/ 
Mi HAND5 AR6T 
AyOV Iame4
ovf company 'frr*Zo,ooo h
uLgsL»C * , , 
KtfclCUl'OüS. 1W* 
A:zSTK». Gaz1l9.pace
¦tarn¦Feb oOon
Wt> I4? y&AfóTD ßsrosev sTJ
ua^nrfc» oM.
. iV, CCEP erktTRg t ut? i 
AM pwcit^o W/ 
HANp »mt> -me 
W-AnM9 9.Myyy
/SOMVCHFofz' vAietfTiHe'
tAy..et
letters
No Apparent Use
Editor:
In the last two issues of the 
TARTAN there have appeared 
articles written by representa­
tives of the Student Senate, in 
an attempt to “explain” the 
problems and progress of the 
Senate.
The articles are false, mislead­
ing, and of no apparent use to 
the students, and so they do in­
deed represent and resemble the 
Student Senate. However, I do 
not intend to examine their 
content, as these articles can be, 
and maybe ought to be, ignored 
by students who are nonetheless 
intent on understanding the pro­
blem. Rather, I would like to 
question the decision of the staff 
of the TARIAN to include 
these articles as though they 
were no different from the other 
articles in the newspaper.
The TARTAN has a responsi­
bility to its readers to conduct 
itself according to the high stan­
dards of journalistic integrity 
common among commercial 
newspapers. While the Student 
Senate contributes money to the 
TARTAN, the money comes
of course, from the students, 
who are thus, in reality, sub­
scribers to the newspaper, with 
every right to expect truth, 
openness, and integrity in its 
content. That the Student Sen­
ate is capable of inserting self- 
serving, biased political adver­
tisements in the paper under the 
guise of news articles severly 
damages that integrity.
If the articles on Senate are 
letters to the editors, they 
should be printed under that 
title. If they are advertisements 
for Senate, they should be 
printed in boxes, like the other 
advertisements, and paid for as 
well. If they are news articles, 
they should be written impart­
ially by a staff reporter of the 
TARTAN.
On the other hand, if, as the 
writers of both articles admitted, 
the students are not interested in 
Senate, the TARTAN, in keep­
ing with standard, newspaper 
policy of printing only what is 
of interest and importance to its 
readers, should refrain from pub­
lishing articles on this subject 
altogether.
Name Withheld
Morals * TenureI
Editor:
While I appreciate the gentle­
manly manner with which Dr. 
Eastman responded to my letter 
of November 18th, I wish to 
point out to those who are in­
terested that he sidesteps a vital 
issue: the fact that the Promo- iP 
tions & Tenure Committee of 
the English department, in its 
deliberations over the question 
of my tenure, considered the 
moral dimension of my publish­
ed work to be relevant. It seems 
only too obvious to me that a 
writer’s moral stance should not 
be used as a tenure yardstick: 
further, that if it is used, its 
degree of verbalization, develop­
ment of elaboration should not 
be prescribed or restricted by 
any committee. I am frankly 
astonished at the wrongheaded­
ness of the P&T Committee in 
considering as a basis for deny­
ing tenure the issue of a writer’s 
ethics and moral judgement.
While I’m happy to acknow­
ledge that I am indeed a minor 
writer it nevertheless strikes me 
as unfortunate that a committee 
of English professors, none of 
continued on page three
wSaBAn >*tartan
NnDrBtrV bug b•>*.BADnr bP
Editor in Chief 
UtrV po70nr
Managing Editor: ­Rtro ne zoTlR 
Business Manager:sSA GorFat76 
News Editor: MnDDon 'Sen7Frt7T5 
Entertainment Editor ztrF ­RoAeFV 
Trapeze Editor: 'olF ­SeTt 
Sports Editor: daaV 2oAAnrAt7 
Photography Editor: daaoST xS1SvoT5
Staff Photographers: Tim Fabian, Mary K. Groupe, James Johnston, Kathi Leichter, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian 
Carl West and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4t2l 
621-2600 extention656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; 14121 682-4557.
9cc 'iULsp 'dpd'wdM

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—February 10, 1976—Page 3news comment
YELJ ROm THE TO?
The deaths within the last 
month of three persons, each of 
whom made significant contri- 
butations to development of the 
excellence of Camegie-Mellon 
University, have reminded me 
that many people now on the 
campus will not have been aware 
of these men or the wide variety 
of their contributions to the 
quality of the educational expe­
rience here.
Elliot Dunlap Smith was the 
first and only Provost of Carne­
gie Institute of Technology, 
appointed by President Robert
E. Doherty immediately after 
World War II to take responsibil­
ity for overseeing the quality of 
education and implementing the 
Institute’s policy of integrating 
the curriculum in humanities 
with the curriculum in engineer­
ing.
With support from the Car­
negie Foundation he organized 
in the Spring of 1948 the Inter- 
Professions Conference on Edu­
cation for Professional Respon­
sibility. The conference brought 
a group of leaders from medical, 
theological, engineering, busi­
ness, and law schools to Buckhill 
Falls for a thorough review of 
the needs of professional educa­
tion and the ways in which sig­
nificant contributions to that 
education could come from the 
humanities.
One of the papers delivered 
at that conference by Professor 
B.R. Teare described the use of 
professional problem solving in 
the teaching of engineering and 
became for many of us on the
campus a primary example of 
the excellent use of problem sol­
ving methods in the teaching of 
all basic courses. Indeed, as 
undergraduate professional edu­
cation developed at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology during 
the final years of the Doherty 
administration and subsequently 
during the Warner Administia- 
tion a significant contributor to 
its quality was the unification of 
the educational experience 
through the application of the 
problem solving techniques in 
all of the basic courses. The 
disciplined application of a pro­
cess which required definition of 
the task, the application of basic 
principles to the design of a 
solution, the development of the 
solution, the testing of the 
solution, and finally analysis 
of the results to achieve and 
consolidate learning was for me 
and many of my colleagues 
both a demanding and a stimula­
ting way to try to teach. One of 
Mr. Smith’s devices for monitor­
ing the education process was 
the Basic Course Committee 
which met regularly and review­
ed instructional units analyzing 
carefully not only the intent of 
assignments but the student 
learning experience throughout 
the entire process to insure that 
learning was of the highest quali­
ty. I am satisfied that through 
his responsibility as Provost Mr. 
Smith contributed to the high 
reputation gained by Carnegie 
Institute of Technology for the 
quality of its undergraduate 
education.
Other faculty members will 
recall serving as assistants to 
Provost Smith in the teaching of 
a course widely known across 
the campus as “Management of 
Men.” It was designed originally 
for insertion in the curriculum 
of the Graduate School of In­
dustrial Administration, set ri­
gorous standards for any under­
standing of personnel inter­
relationships, and imbued its 
students with a high respect for 
style, accuracy, and human con­
cern in the carrying out of their 
responsibilities. Campus legend 
in the 50s insisted that the de­
sign of the auditorium in the 
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration was dictated 
partly by Mr. Smith’s needs for 
an ideal situation for teaching 
that course.
He brought to the campus 
a rare combination of earlier 
experience. He had served with 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 
Washington during World War I. 
He later worked as a personnel 
manager for the Dennison Com­
pany. Before coming to Carnegie 
Institue of Technology he had 
been Master of Saybrook College 
at Yale where he first came to 
know President Doherty.
On the 29th of January we 
learned of the death of Robert 
F. Mehl, Professor of Metallurgy, 
Emeritus, and at various times 
Dean of Graduates Studies, Head 
of the Deaprtment of Metallur­
gy, and Director of the Metals 
Research Laboratory at this 
Institution.
At the time he came to Car­
negie Insitue of Technology in 
1932 he had already established 
a reputation for distinction in 
research. He was appointed the 
Director of the Metals Research 
Laboratory in the next year. 
Carnegie Institute Of Technolo­
gy had established, following a 
series of international coal con­
ferences in the late 20s under 
the leadership of President 
Baker, a Coal Research Labora­
tory which continued to func­
tion until it was integrated with 
the Department of Chemistry 
during the 60s. However, the 
Metals Research Laboratory was 
almost immediately integrated 
into the work of the Department 
of Metallurgy, providing an early 
model for the enrichment of 
undegraduate and graduate ed­
ucation through involvement in 
ongoing research and the ex­
ploration of new understanding.
Dr. Mehl was respected 
throughout the campus for his 
high standards and for his high 
personal and professional style. 
When he retired from Carnegie 
Institute of Technology he con­
tinued to maintain an extremely 
active professional carreer but 
will be known to generations of 
students in the Department of 
Metallurgy here for the interna­
tional distinction he brought to 
this institution, and for the 
stimulus toward excellence in all 
who worked with him.
In his own way each of these 
men added color to the campus. 
Provsot Smith because of his 
long friendship with Bob 
Kiphuth, the famous swimming
(so the argument goes) “why not 
cut back?” That’s where the real 
bite comes. Datum: in the twel­
ve years I’ve been in the English 
Department, only two people 
new to the Department since 
1964 have come up through 
the ranks 1o get tenure (though 
15 or 20 good people from 
prestigious schools have been 
phased through the system). 
Datum: next year, after we have 
dumped another generation of 
young faculty, our total number
con't on 6
turning on, who wants every ori­
fice filled, who wants degrada­
tion mixed with sex, who “tin- 
gles’with curiosity” at the men­
tion of rape. Some sexual ex­
ploiters have the audacity to call 
this the “liberated” woman. The 
assumption that this woman is 
real underlies our acceptance of 
such as The Story of O.
This male service view of wo­
men should be decried in every 
context. Technical artistry, mass 
popularity, and especially erotic 
effects do not justify the pro­
mulgation of anti-human atti­
tudes.
Lee Cooprider 
Sch SI24
coach at Yale, was convinced 
that top coats and overcoats 
were unnecessary. One had only 
to increase his blood pressure 
and pulse rate and he was proof 
against the cold while walking 
across the campus. He applied 
the theory until the blizzard of 
1951 when he appeared one day 
in a racoon coat that nobody 
would believe. Dr. Mehl lived 
immediately adjacent to the 
campus and was eligible to park 
in what was then a reserved ad­
ministrative parking space at the 
front of Baker Hall. He drove his 
car religiously the half block to 
the administrative parking space 
every day, probably not out of 
pecularity or a sense of privi­
lege but to save time if his busi­
ness took him off campus during 
the day.
The third death in the month 
of January which saddened 
many of us was the death of 
John H. Morgart who was pro­
gram director for the School- 
College Orientation Program in 
Pittsburgh, an innovative pro­
gram established in the summer 
of 1964 which later became a 
model for and a predecessor to 
the current Upward Bound pro­
gram. Early in 1964 Dean 
Steinberg and President Warner 
met with Sidney Marland, then 
Superintendent of the Pittsburgh 
Public Schools, and proposed an 
idea for the discovery and stimu­
lation of able young people from 
deprived neighborhoods. In a 
remarkable venture in coopera­
tion the University, the Pitts­
burgh Public Schools, faculty 
members who were committed 
to the idea, and academic Deans 
developed a program which 
brought young people of high 
capablility to the campus in an 
experiment to see whether the 
stimulas of excellent instruction 
and the college atmosphere 
would raise their goals and en­
courage them to prepare for 
college admission. Mr. Morgart, 
who was then at the end of a 
distinguished career with the 
Board of Education, served as 
Program Director and the wide 
respect for him in the Pittsburgh 
community and on the campus
- contributed heavily to the suc­
cess of that program. He was res­
ponsible, I think, for its ability 
to become a model for sub­
sequent Upward Bound pro­
grams.
Each of these men in his way 
made a significant contributionto 
Carnegie Institute of Technolo­
gy, a contribution upon which 
Carnegie-Mellon University has 
strengthened itself. I am im­
pressed by the number of echoes 
of their work I find in the pro­
grams which students today re­
port as exciting and viable. The
strength of this University lies in 
its ability to build on the past 
just as it lies in the dedicated 
work and effort of Ihc people 
who arc now here.
Earle R Swank 
Dean of Student Affairs
Students Take Their Chances
Naturally I read with interest 
in your last issue the various 
items that involved or implied 
attitudes toward the English 
Department.
The seeming-skepticism of 
certain trustees about the value 
of an H&SS college on this 
campus sounded familiar, in fact 
by now, almost proverbial: we 
should inform liberal arts appli­
cants “that they will probably 
not be employable after re­
ceiving their undergraduate de­
gree.” (Did anyone recommend 
warning applicant-CITers of the 
aerospace debacle and that they 
might be suckers to put four 
years into engineering?) Stu­
dents presumably do what they 
must and take their chances; 
faculty adjust to realities, advise 
and help. The trustee-attitude 
would be less notable were 
it not echoed by on-campus ad­
ministrators - presidential pon- 
derings (reported in TARTAN 
last fall) about phasing out 
degree programs in H&SS, dean- 
ly comments that the quality 
of students is definitely down. 
There’s a managerial naivete in 
this that’s startling, rattling kids 
who have paid tuition monies, 
ignoring the continuing good en­
rollment level and the actual 
performance of students (I can
personally attest, for example, 
that the quality of freshman 
English majors looks strong). 
But I’m not so bothered by 
these comments anymore; I get 
together with friends (a scientist, 
an engineer) and we laugh about 
them: “That sure is CMU.”
The problems of the English 
Department at CMU can be 
lumped in two categories, “out­
side” and “ inside.”
1) The outside problem is an 
administrative climate and tradi­
tion. CMU has been (and is) 
dominated by “practical-minded” 
administrators who have little 
patience or instinct for the slow­
er, open-ended process of the 
liberal arts, (All of this, ironi­
cally, despite Carnegie, who glor­
ied in his knowledge of Shake­
speare and Bobby Burns.) Ad­
ministrative discomfort with lib­
eral arts has acquired a cutting 
edge in recent years because of 
the tight budget. “In a program 
that is not our major emphasis”letterscontinued from page two
whom have ever published a 
novel - and very little else on 
the open market -- would pre­
sume to question the compe­
tence of a colleague whose nov­
els have not only been published 
but widely reviewed. Notice that
I did not say “question the artis­
tic value;” I said question the 
competence - for that is the 
word Dr. Eastman used in his 
letter of November 25th.
Martin Russ 
Assoc. Prof., English Dept.
Servile Sterotypes
Editor: 
The real review of The Story
of O in the Feb. 3 TARTAN was 
not David Mathew’s movie arti­
cle, but Rick Costa’s discussion 
of Brownmiller’s Against Our 
Will.
Pornography from Liberty 
Avenue to Playboy and Pent­
house to Madison Avenue, por­
trays servile stereotypes of wo­
men for the erotic pleasure of 
men (and some women who 
have accepted those stereo­
types). In the most common 
version, occasionally presented 
as an innocent nymphette or 
reluctant slave, the media por­
trays a voracious woman jump­
ing to the call of male fantasies: 
the woman who loves it, who 
can’t get enough, who is always

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
Page 4—THE TARTAN—February 10, 1976
The TARTAN will print announcements 
which it receives before the announced 
deadline (Wednesday, 12 noon) and which 
are presented in a dear (typed, double 
spaced preferred) manner. The criteria for 
selecting announcements for publication is 
as follows: 1) The event or announcement 
must be free and open to the whole (or 
majority) of the campus community; 
2) The event or announcement must be of 
general interest and not for the benefit of 
a very limited sample of people. 
Because of space limitations, the 
TART A hi cannot guarantee placement of 
any announcement but will attempt in 
good faith to include all announcements 
which meet the above criteria.
WOMEN PREMEDS: sRn ­n7Tnr KSr IS3
An7 o7 zn6olo7ng TRn zn6olta ­Saan0n SK 
xn77eVa;t7otg Rte t eBAAnr 1rnAn6olta 
1rS0rtA o7 xRoat6na1Roty iK VSB trn o7Tnrne3
Tn6 o7 t11aVo70g ltaa 9y [y pTrnoKKg d4Ty HHug 
Sr eTS1 o7 tT ML Ebb,y 911aoltToS7e ABeT 
Dn lSA1anTn6 DV TRn n76 SK NnDrBtrVy
PREMEDS: All students who wish to apply
TS An6olta Sr 6n7Tta elRSSae KSr n7Trt7ln 
o7 Ntaag b•>> " sRn z­9s 'n0oeTrtToS7 
1tlFnTe KSr b•>* n4tAo7tToS7e trn 7Sv 
t;toatDan KrSA 9y[y pTrnoKKg ML Ebb,y
The social consequences of alternative
rtTne SK nlS7SAol 0rSvTR voaa Dn TRn eBD3
^nlTe SK TRn hplon7lng snlR7SaS0V t76 LB3
At7 wtaBne— KSrBA tT ­tr7n0on"znaaS7 
X7o;nreoTV S7 In67ne6tVg NnDrBtrV bb tT 
>YHu 1Ay
sRn e1ntFnr voaa Dn MS7ta6 ­y ¦Br7RtAg 
;oln lRtorAt7 SK TRn .tToS7ta ­SAAoeeoS7 
S7 xrS6BlTo;oTV t76 ISrF “BtaoTV t76 t 
6ornlTSr t76 KSrAnr lRtorAt7 SK IneTo70" 
RSBen danlTrol ­Sr1SrtToS7y
sRn KSrBAg vRolR oe Krnn t76 S1n7 TS TRn 
1BDaolg voaa Dn Rna6 o7 TRn IRnrrnTT 'SSA 
o7 pFoDSg TRn B7o;nreoTVfe tlTo;oTone ln7Tnry
Sierra Club Meeting. An illustrated talk on
­rSee ­SB7TrV pFoo70 voaa Dn 1rnen7Tn6 DV 
dy GtV zVnre tT >YHu 1Ag In67ne6tVg NnD3
rBtrV bbg tT TRn xoTTeDBr0R Utr6n7 ­n7Tnrg 
pRt6V t76 NoKTRy
MEDEX LECTURE SERIES: Students and
KtlBaTV trn o7;oTn6 TS TRn 7n4T anlTBrn tT 
>YHu 1A S7 sRBre6tVg NnDrBtrV bEg o7 
TRn pRt6Veo6n LSe1oTta zto7 9B6oTSroBAy 
ztr0BnroTn ­SrrtSg 'y.yg voaa 6oelBee h9A3
DBatTSrV ­trny— xtrFo70 TolFnTe KrSA TRn 
1trFo70 0trt0n lt7 Dn ;tao6tTn6 DV TRn LSe3
1oTta wSaB7Tnnrfe 8KKoln KSr Krnn 1trFo70y 
­taa 9y[y pTrnoKKg d4Ty HHug KSr 6nTtoaeg 
rxxz
The Carnegie-Mellon Involvement Associa­
ToS7g ­i9g oe t7 o76n1n76n7T Sr0t7o5tToS7 
vRSen Ato7 tlTo;oTV oe 1trTolo1tToS7 o7 TRn 
¦B00V rtlne tT p1ro70 ­tr7o;tay In voaa Dn 
RSa6o70 t7 Sr0t7o5tToS7ta AnnTo70 S7 pB73
6tVg NnDrBtrV bm tT PYHu 1A o7 rSSA bEg 
pFoDSy 97VS7n o7TnrneTn6 o7 DnlSAo70 o73
;Sa;n6 oe o7;oTn6 TS tTTn76y NSr KBrTRnr o73
KSrAtToS7 lS7TtlT 'BTR tT *Pb"b•u* Sr 
¦nTR tT *PE"EPu>y
La Table Française will meet every Thurs­
6tV KrSA 7SS7 S7 o7 TRn zSrnvSS6 ltKn3
Tnroty xanten lSAn t76 aB7lR o7 VSBr DneT 
Nrn7lR voTR Be( )sRoe tlTo;oTV oe e1S7eSrn6 
DV ­zXfe ­aBD Nrt7lS1RS7nyJ
Job placement specialists at Opportunity
'nentrlR o76oltTn TRtT TRnrn voaa Dn o7 n43
lnee SK muguuu 0SS6 eBAAnr^SD S11SrTB73
oTone tT .tToS7ta xtrF KtloaoToneg pTtTn xtrFeg 
6B6n rt7lRne t76 1ro;tTn eBAAnr ltA1ey 
pTB6n7Te trn Br0n6 TS t11aV ntraV )1roSr 
TS 91roa bJ te TRn 0SS6 ^SDe 0S KteTy Nrnn 
o7KSrAtToS7 S7 eTB6n7T teeoeTt7ln KSr eBA3
Anr ^SD 1atlnAn7T AtV Dn SDTto7n6 DV 
en76o70 t enaK"t66rneen6 eTtA1n6 n7;naS1n 
TS 811SrTB7oTV 'nentrlRg Mn1Ty p[8g mm 
NatTRnt6 Mro;ng Gtaoe1naa zs m••uby
"Mass Transit - Now or Ever?" Professor
ztrTo7 ISRag srt7e1SrTtToS7 'nentrlR i73
eToTBTng voaa 6oelBee rnentrlR Ko76o70 S7 
1rnen7T ztee" srt7e1SrTtToS7 pVeTnAey 
ISBa6 VSB Dnaon;n TRn ltr oe eToaa ASrn 
nlS7SAolta t76 nKKolon7T% sRBre6tVg NnD3
rBtrV bEg sRBre6tV 9KTnr7SS7 cB7lRnS7 
pnroneg bEYHu 1Ag IRnrrnTT 'SSAg pFoDSy 
¦ro70 VSBr aB7lR t76 t Kron76y p1S7eSrn6 
DV ­tA1Be xrS0rtA xat77o70g Mn1T SK 
pTB6n7T 9lTo;oToney
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH JAPAN­
dpd ­cX¦Y sRnrn voaa Dn t7 n4TrnAnaV oA3
1SrTt7T AnnTo70 7n4T vnnF S7 sRBre6tVg 
NnDy bE tT EYuu 1A o7 znr;oe Ltaay xat7e 
voaa Dn 6oelBeen6 KSr TRoe TnrAe tlTo;oTone o7 
t66oToS7 TS t eao6n eRSv S7 [t1t7 k rn3
KrneRAn7Tey 97V o6nteg lSAAn7Teg 1rS3
DanAeg nTly VSB Rt;ng 1anten Knna Krnn TS ltaa 
Mry zlMS7ta6 tT *E,"mm*P Sr ­RBlF 'SD3
nrTe tT *P>"b>u* )tKTnr *Yuu 1AJy
A program on finding a summer job will
Dn 1rnen7Tn6 S7 zS76tVg NnDrBtrV b*g 
b•>* tT bEYuu 7SS7 DV eTB6n7T hn41nrTeh 
vRS Rt;n eBllneeKBaaV KSB76 eBAAnr nA3
1aSVAn7Ty sRn 1rS0rtA voaa Dn Rna6 o7 TRn 
IRnrrnTT 'SSA t76 o7laB6n 6oelBeeoS7e S7 
t11aVo70 KSr t eBAAnr ^SDg TRo70e TS n43
1nlTg t11rStlRne TS TtFng t76 0n7nrta To1ey
DOCDilC¦ta¦IXK
THE 1976 UNIVERSITY STUDENT 
FUND-RAISING CAMPAIGN
invites you to meet
REV. JOHNS.GRAUEL
A leader of the ship “EXODUS", member of European
Underground,
and to share his personal impressions 
of Israel and critical concerns in the Middle East
IdM.dpM9- Nd¦'X9'- bbgb•>* >YHu 1yAy
PUBLIC HEALTH AUDITORIUM,
University of Pittsburgh
In Cooperation with the United Jewish Federation of Greater Pittsburgh 
and B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University Center 
315 S. Behefield Avenue -- 621-8875
SPIRIT, the Black Student Union on cam­
1Beg oe RSa6o70 t ¦tFn ptan S7 In67ne6tVg 
NnDrBtrV bbg b•>* tT bYuuèmYuu 1Ay sRn 
1rSlnn6e voaa 0S TSvtr6e ¦atlF InnF f>* 
vRolR voaa Dn Rna6 ztrlR H"•g b•>*y
For the 1976-77 academic year, the Finan­
lota 9o6 8KKoln voaa .8s Dn Atoao70 rn7nv3
ta KSrAe TS lBrrn7T to6 rnlo1on7Tey 9aa pTB3
6n7Teg TRSen vRS trn lBrrn7TaV rnlno;o70 
to6g te vnaa te t7V STRnr eTB6n7T vRS 
vSBa6 aoFn TS t11aV KSr to6 KSr b•>*">>g 
ABeT SDTto7 TRSen KSrAe 6ornlTaV KrSA TRn 
No7t7lota 9o6 8KKolng Ebm Itr7nr Ltaay 9aa 
AtTnrota voaa Dn t;toatDan Dn0o77o70 MnlnA3
Dnr bmg b•>*y
The spring Sleeping Bag campaigns are
scheduled for April 4 and 5 and April 11 
and 12. If you'd like to host a student, 
serve on the planning committee, or find 
out more about the campaigns, please stop 
by the Admissions Office, first floor, War­
ner Hall, and talk with Gaye or Debbie.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
LBAt7oTone t76 pSlota plon7lne voaa Rt;n 
S1n7 SKKoln RSBre KSr eTB6n7Teg sBne6tVe 
KrSA bYHu TS mYuuy "
"Ministry with the Separated and Divorc­
n6— oe TRn TRnAn SK t lS7Knrn7ln TS Dn Rna6 
tT TRn xoTTeDBr0R sRnSaS0olta pnAo7trV o7 
xoTTeDBr0R S7 ptTBr6tVg NnDrBtrV EbeT 
KrSA buYuu tA TS ,Yuu 1Ay
d;t7 ­S11nreAoTRg TRn FnV7STn e1ntFnrg 
voaa t66rnee TRn TS1ol h'San i6n7ToKoltToS7 
sRrSB0RSBT TRn xnroS6 SK Mo;Srln t76 pn13
trtToS7hy NSr o7KSrAtToS7 ltaa *P>">ubby
Activities Board is putting out two sugges­
ToS7 DS4ney sRnen voaa Dn aSltTn6 tT zSrn" 
vSS6 MneF t76 pFoDS i7KSrAtToS7 6neFy 
sRn 9¦ vSBa6 aoFn Knn6DtlF KrSA TRn eTB3
6n7Te rn0tr6o70 1rS0rtAe TRnV vSBa6 Dn 
o7TnrneTn6 o7 Rt;o70g lSAAn7Te Sr lroToe" 
loeAe S7 1rn;oSBe 1rS0rtAe t76 0n7nrta 
eB00neToS7ey In RS1n TRtT TRoe voaa Rna1 TRn 
9¦ TS rntlR ASrn SK TRn pTB6n7T ¦S6Vy
The American Way of Death: The Right
TS ­RSSen IRn7 TS MonY dBTRt7teotyy9D" 
rtRt7 svnreFog zyMy ­ao7olta MornlTSr SK 
TRn Mn1trTAn7T SK xeVlRotTrV tT pTy 
Nrt7loe LSe1oTtay .tTRt7 LnreRnVg de«yg 
xrSKneeSr SK LntaTR ctv tT TRn X7o;nreoTV 
SK xoTTeDBr0Ry
sBne6tVg NnDrBtrV bug >YHu 1Ag I'g pFo3
DSy
Classified
ixk: „ xtc
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES 
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original - 5c 
Multiple copies per original:
1st copy 
2nd-50th copies 
51st
4c
3c
2c
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating • 3-hole punched 
colored paper • legal size
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N. Craig St. 681 5411
FIAT-124 Sport, 1971, five speeds,
9A"NA rt6oSg At0y vRnnaeg aB00t0n rtlFg 
zolRnao7 Torneg Huguuu Sro0o7ta Aoaneg rn6 
voTR DatlF o7TnroSrg rBeT1rSSKg n4lnaan7T 
lS76oToS7g zXps pdccg DneT SKKnrg ltaa 
t7VToAny *Pb"u>HHy
Yesterday's NEWS RESALE SHOP
97To«Bneg ­SaanlTtDaneg ­aSTRo70g t76 ;nrV 
0n7TaV vSr7g S7n SK t Fo76 6rneeneg lStTe 
KBreg RtTeg nTly KrSA TRn Tvn7Tone TRrSB0R 
TRn KSrToney iK vn 6S7fT Rt;n vRtT VSB 
vt7Tg vn voaa TrV TS aSltTn oTy 9cc SK 
SBr laSTRo70 oe o7 ;nrV 0SS6 TS n4lnaan7T 
lS76oToS7 t76 rnteS7tDaV 1roln6y In ltrrV 
1rn6SAo7t7TaV vSAn7fe laSTRo70g DBT 
vnfrn TrVo70 TS aSltTn An7fe laSTRo70 TSSy 
­SAn o7 t76 DrSveny bmub ptv zoaa 'B7 
¦a;6yg E Aoane eSBTR SK coDnrTV TBDney 
PPE"HH,•y 8xd. zS7yg In6yg t76 ptTy 
bb",g Nroy bb"•y
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
your time per week. Donate Plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biologicals 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's in Oakland). Open 8:45 am 
- 7:00 pm Mon-Thurs. 8:45 am - 4:00 Fri 
Phone 682-3190.
SUNDAY FILMS Doherty Hall 2210
pB76tVg NnDy bmg b•>* hdteT SK d6n7h 
*Yuu 1A " PY,m 1A " bbYuu 1Ay pTtrro70 
[tAne Mnt7g [Baon Ltrroeg 'tVAS76 zteenV 
t76 [S wt7 NannTy
pB76tVg NnDy E•g b•>* h'nDna IoTRSBT 9 
­tBenh *Yuu 1A " PY,m 1A "bbYuu 1Ay 
pTtrro70 [tAne Mnt7g .tTtaon ISS6g ­SrnV 
9aan7g .olF 96tAey
Personals
Dan,
i RS1n MnDDon RtTne eTntFy "M 
G.S.,
sS Rt;n t 0rntT At7 KSr t7 o7ToAtTn Kron76 
ennAe 1antet7T TS TRSen vRS Rt;n 7n;nr 
n41nron7ln6 oT$ TRSen vRS Rt;n Kntr oTy 
)LSrtlng d1oeTSatn i ’wiiiJy
9Toaat
MONTESSORI
Teacher Training Program
APPROVED BY THE 
AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY
Sixth AERCO Summer Academic 
Program for 8 weeks from June 23, 
1976 to August 13,1976 to be 
followed by a nine month Internship 
Experience. Students will be trained 
in the Montessori philosophy and 
teaching method, child development 
and learning materials for pre-school 
programs. Now at two. locations. 
AERCO/Ithaca Program conducted on 
the campus of Cornell University and 
AERCO/Phila. Program conducted on 
the Ambler campus of Temple Uni­
versity, where you can spend your 
summer in the Bicentennial area.
For information and brochure, call or write
AERCO/lthaca Montessori Teacher 
Training Program (Mailing Address)
Mr. Kenneth Bronsil 
1374 Meadowbright Lane 
Cincinnati. Ohio 45230 
(513) 231-0868
AERCO/Philadelphia Montessori Teacher 
Training Program
1400 East Willow Grove Ave. 
Philadelphia. Pa. 19118 
(215) AD 3-0141 42

---------------------------------------------------

Cyert Puts Back Portrait 
After Plea From Admirer
THE TARTAN—February lO, 1976—Page 5
by Claire Lee
On Feb. 3 (last Tuesday), the Portrait 
of Andrew Carnegie Finally shed its brown 
wrappings and returned to the 2nd floor 
hallway of Baker Hall. Ever since its dis­
appearance last fall and subsequent discov­
ery by the tipped security, the painting has 
been waiting administrative decision on its 
future home and security. It was only 2 or 
3 weeks ago that President Cyert decided 
that it would be hung in its original place.
The one person who had a most impor­
tant influence in the decision (according 
to Mr. Barnhart, Assistant to the President) 
was Prof. Ann Hayes of the English Depart­
ment. Prof. Hayes said that this painting 
always had a special place in her day at 
CMU. Every morning she would come into 
Baker Hall, notice it, and say “Good morn­
ing” to it.
On that fateful morning, she looked and 
it was gone. When she later checked with 
security, they said, “We know it’s missing, 
but no one has made an official report.” 
She told them she was making one right 
then and there.
Prof. Hayes inquired about it during the 
next week and was relieved to discover that 
it was safe. The problem was that she wait­
ed and waited and it never returned to 
Baker Hall.
A few weeks ago, she discovered that 
some dean had it and she wanted to write 
a memo to H&S$ Dean Crecine so that he 
would look into the matter. During the 
writing process, the memo began to rhyme. 
After approximately 4 hours of work, she 
completed a poem which, according to Mr. 
Barnhart, had tremedous weight in convinc­
ing President Cyert that there was enough 
“sentiment”, concerning the painting, to 
return it to its former home. This “memo” 
was published in the latest issue of FOCUS 
and is reproduced here as one poet’s reac­
tion to an event which was very significant 
to her and yet which many did (and may­
be still don’t) even know about.
For Our Lost Founder
A college * housed in Baker Hall 
Had once a portrait on its wall,
Old Andrew,“ done in oil, writ large, 
Magnate, strike breaker, man in charge.
He knew a bully boy or two,
But bully boys will get to you 
And someone got to him: instead 
Posted a snapshot of his head.
O shrunk to tiny Andrew C,
He disappeared. Security
Said ‘twas a prank, all right, they said,
When our great founder lost his head.
Hoffa is gone. They all set sail 
Into the sunset, out of jail,
And we who’re left to clues and dumps^ 
Must put our sources through the jumps, 
Learn what we learn: it can’t be said -- 
Andrew Carnegie’s long been dead -- 
His picture’s not a work of art,
Nothing for cash, it’s in the heart -- 
Yet awful Rumor’s spreading round 
That what we’ve lost the Deans have 
found,
He’s in their trust, they’ve got him now, 
The robber baron taught them how.
And yet: Carnegie! O my Deans!
Imagined meeting! Nature screens 
Each tender student from the sight,
But Justice cries it serves them right1 
If Dean by Dean is shivered stone,
Midani, Davis, Crecine moan 
And Toor and Schatz go tiptoe by 
As Weber^ totters: strong men cry.
It’s oil he’s in instead of steel,
Yet Andrew’s still waiting, lighted, bare, 
No other man worth hanging there.
7 8Baker is poor. Past Hamilton
We see few pictures, keeping none.
In thee, dread founder we would fjnd,
Is wealth the study of mankind:
Who looked down on Humanities,
Made Social Science what you please,
And trusted no one, watched his back -- 
Alas! His face is what we lack.
Dear Leader, Lesson, Model, Guide,
Thou shouldst be living to bestride, 
Colossus,^ these unmoneyed men.
O Cyert bring him back again!
NOTES ^ Ann Hayes
* College of Humanities & Social Sciences
“ Andrew Carnegie, whose money founded 
Carnegie Institute of Technology as a 
trade school
3James Hoffa, once Head of the Teamsters 
Union
4In New Jersey and elsewhere
^Cf. University motto: “My heart is in the 
work.”
^Deans at Carnegie-Mellon University, cur­
rent form of the school founded by Car-
negie
ANDY IS BACK! Photo by Mark Sega.
^Container for the thing containedOAlexander Hamilton, whose face appears 
on the ten-dollar bill
^Classical reference; cf. Antony
^ President of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
perhaps able to return lost portraitSpring Carnival
continued from page one 
from Mind reading to Poetry, music of all 
kinds, dramatic readings, magic, a smorgas- 
board of talent. The Art festival will be 
larger and at the same time will allow 
young beginning artists a chance to show 
off their work. This will be done through 
the use of group tables, where several ar­
tists might show their work together, if 
individually they could not fill a whole 
table.
The famous CMU buggy races will be 
the opening event on the 9th of April. Be­
cause of a conflict with the Flower show at 
Phipps Conservatory, the buggies must be 
off the streets by 9:30 am which means 
these races will probably start around 7:00 
am. Like last year, the buggies with the six 
best times will compete the following day 
for the championship. If for some reason 
the race cannot be run on Saturday, the 
bugey that came in first on Friday will be
declared the winner. Friday evening will 
feature a concert by some major group, 
however at this time, it is not clear which 
one will actually perform.
Saturday morning, the finals of the bug­
gy races will take place, and later in the 
day, the SDC picnic will be held; plank 
jousting with pillows over “ye olde muddy 
hole,” Tug of War over the same hole, and 
a frisbee competition, which is being set up 
by the CMU Ultimate Frisbee team. The 
carnival will close Saturday night with a 
dance sponsored by SDC at which time var­
ious awards will be given. Mike had two 
final things to say: “We’re really attemp­
ting to get everybody into it, so that this 
will truly be a campus-wide event.” If any 
group or any person wants to work on Car­
nival, they will be welcome, because every­
thing is open. Also as Mike promised, 
“There will be good weather at carnival.”
Alone & Pregnant? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
*Eb"b•PP
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
Get your heads together.
From one beer lover to another.
£Soeeeeee#eee««4* There IS adifference!!!*
i w
J ¦ta¦rta nFt 
% eMCAT OAT LSAT GRE ATGSB 
OCAT CPAT 
. FLEX : ECFMG•NATI MED BUS :• s• Local Classes 1
681-9735
Over 35 years of eipenence and success
SmaM classes
voluminous home • 
study materials è
YCourses ttiet are •constantly updated •
Make ups ebmissed lessons
f DUCAT (ON AL CÌNTE*nST mWPAMATIOMIn« Révalul m
1*13DUE. AOAX> t*i
uy 15217 .«J#>Ul C.IM*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976
Physics
continued from page one 
solution of physical problems using com­
putational techniques. The last new course 
offered is Special Problems in Computa-. 
tional Physics where the student will work 
directly with a member of the faculty on 
specific problems. These last two courses 
won’t be offered until next year since the 
Introduction course is required before 
they can be taken. It is not yet known 
which instructors will be teaching them.
There are several other new programs 
being drawn up by the Physics Depart­
ment. They are Biotechnology and Phy­
sics, and Scientific Instrumentation. How­
ever, these are still under consideration and 
in the planning stage.
Anyone who is interested in further in­
formation should contact either Prof. S. A. 
Friedberg, Prof. R. A. Eisenstein or Prof. 
M. J. Levine who are members of the 
committee evaluating the new courses now 
being offered.
Problems Inside & Out
continued from page three
will be reduced by at least three (in favor 
of support for a new social science depart­
ment). With pressure of this sort from the 
“outside,” it would be hard to feel that 
the English Department is not a crumbling 
organization. It’s hard to take planning 
exercises seriously among colleagues who 
have small future at CMU.
2) The “inside” problem. I would also 
have to say that in my view - partly be­
cause of (1) - the English Deparment has 
not been very successful in establishing a 
distinctive, special set of roles that might 
be answerable to the peculiar mix of spe­
cialties on this campus. I’m no clearer than 
Art Eastman about whether the depart­
ment is anti-journalistic, but I do think 
that over the years there has been a hope 
that we would evolve into a traditional 
department, with a good rang£ of historic 
offerings and graduate courses. In fact, 
from a student major point of view, I
think we have achieved that objective 
rather well: appropriate courses are of­
fered, and they’re better taught than the 
counterparts many of us have experienced 
in better known departments.
But, in a larger context, we have not 
developed a special edge, an emphasis that 
might be unique to this campus. We might, 
for example, be a center of various core 
programs (maybe the Medieval and Modern 
Semesters are steps in that direction). Lite­
rature has been an influential determiner 
(perhaps the major determiner) of popular 
cultural attitudes towards engineers, scien­
tists, businessmen. All professionals should 
have a grounding in the pros and cons of 
attitudes toward their fields as promul­
gated by humanists: over and over again 
those attitudes will be used in the real 
world as measures, adequate or not, of
their work and lifestyles. No one should 
graduate in management without knowing, 
for instance, Something Happened, Bab­
bitt, Howards End, Hard Times. To go 
without them is to go naive. A set of 
courses might be devised to fill such needs 
more predictably.
I’m trying to make a general point: the 
English Department is the natural possessor 
of both materials and skills that could be 
much more institutionally central to edu­
cation on this campus. If the Department 
could stabilize its personnel, if it were 
needled rather than harassed from the top, 
it might be able eventually to create a real 
conscious-raising program that would bring 
it, and CMU, genuine distinction.
David Demarest 
English Professor
Prices Up In Tartan Grill
Left to right. Dr. Friedberg, Professor Eisenstein, Professor LevinePhoto by Jim Johnston
WINTER SKY
JEAN CORBIN
COFFEE HOUSE 
FEBRUARY 12,13,14 
WHERRETT ROOM 
REFRESHMENTS
by Tom Kendig
As of January 1 st there has been a price 
increase effective on three items in the 
grill; ice cream, coffee, and bacon. But 
due to either a lack of communication or a 
purposeful oversight there was a misunder­
standing in how the increase was to be 
^charged.
As of the first of the year the price list 
behind the grill was changed from a sign 
indicating ice cream at 15 cents for 1 scoop 
and 25 cents for 2 scoops was changed to 
read “20 cents a scoop”. Up until the first 
week of February the cashiers understood 
this to mean a 2 scoop cone was 40 cents 
but in inquiry showed the price increase 
was intended to be a nickle increase on the 
previous prices. This would make the price 
20 cents for one scoop of ice cream and 30 
cents for a 2 scoop cone or dish. The un­
derstanding was that if someone bought 
more than 2 scoops they would be charged 
20 cents per scoop. This scheme was not 
communicated to the cashiers. The increase 
was effected to compensate for the price 
increase of ice cream. Ice cream has been 
and is the least profitable item at the grill.
Other increases this semester include a 
three cent increase in the price of a slice of 
bacon to 20 cents. Coffee was increased 
five cents a cup for the six, ten, and six­
teen ounce sizes to 15, 20 and 30 cents 
a cup respectively. Unless unforseen whole­
sale price increases take place, grill prices 
will remain the same for the duration of 
the semester.
Although prices will remain the same 
there will be other changes at the grill. 
Employees will be wearing white shirts 
provided by food service while^ working 
behind the counter. Dwight Jackson, 
manager of the grill, attended a seminar
in Chicago sponsored by the National Res­
taurant Association on Management tech­
niques. He plans to institute a better train­
ing program for employees working behind 
the grill. This will hopefully make the serv­
ice better and faster.
There has been a recent increase in the 
number of scavengers in the Kilte Cafe 
causing concern due to the potential 
danger of someone becoming sick as a re­
sult of eating food left on trays. Scavengers 
are being taken aside and asked for their 
motives, most replying “because we don’t 
want to see it go to waste.” If financial 
motives are sighted food service will offer 
them a job at their facilities. John Eich- 
muller, acting head of food service men­
tioned he will give a tour of food service 
to explain the behind the scene opera­
tions at the facilities. He also pointed out 
that there have been several cases of alco­
hol use in the grill where its use is not 
allowed. A new head of food service is be­
ing chosen, the final selection will be made 
tentatively by the end of February.
YOUR 
DEGREE
Permanently laminated 
on wood. Exclusive Non­
glare Process by Lamin-Art 
Co.
Available at the 
BOOK STORE 
Baker Hall
A A A A.
HOUSING REMINDERS
Don’t Forget these important dates, times, and place
February 17, $25 housing fee due at the Chashier's Office, hours -
9 A.M. to 4 P.M.
Room Drawing
February 18, Prospective Sophomores
February 19, > Prospective Juniors
February 20, Prospective Seniors
Drawing take place in the SDC room Morewood 
Garden from 8:30 - 5:30 and 6:00 - 8:30
Room Rention
March 30, remaining, $75 housing fee due at the Casher’s Office.
March 30, room rentention in SDC room Morewood Gardens from 8:30 
- 5:00 and 6:00 - 8:30.
Room Selection in SDC room from 5:30 to 9:00
April 5, Prospective Seniors April 6, Prospective Juniors
April 7, Prospective Sophomores

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—February 10, 1976—Page 7
Finances Hurt Architecture Dept.
continued from page one 
“involved”
Highlands and Havekotte both see the 
lack of financial solvency in the architec­
ture department as posing a serious threat 
to its future well-being. Existing facilties 
are inadequate in relation to the number of 
students enrolled. Shortages of space 
have resulted in overcrowding. This is 
also due in part to the enormous size of 
this year’s freshman class. Although it is 
recognized that there were too many fresh­
men accepted into the deparment last 
year, there seems to be no available ex­
planation for this phenomenon. Highlands, 
in fact, declined to refer to the situation as 
an overcrowding problem, preferring in­
stead to term it a “wave of unexpectedly 
large enrollment”. The fact that the attri­
tion rate in the department for Level 0, or 
beginning architects, is lower than ever 
before (9 out of 125), Highlands attributed 
to the higher caliber of incoming students. 
Many who are accepted, however, though 
satisfying the department’s admissions cri­
teria clearly should not be. “People enter 
because their mother thinks they should be 
an architect,” Highlands said. “Usually 
their performance suffers and they are 
asked to leave.” In any case, Highlands 
does not anticipate another such “wave”.
Inadequate funding has also been the 
cause of a shortage of faculty. The salaries 
paid to professors in the Architecture De­
partment is well below the national norm. 
Although this problem exists in virtually 
every department on campus, for Architec­
ture it sometimes means a compromise in 
quality as well. Highlands puts the problem 
this way: “If you had a choice between 
buying dedication for seventy-five cents 
an hour as opposed to a dollar an hour, 
you would take it for seventy-five cents. 
The complaint by the students that the 
architecture faculty has become ingrown is 
the result of the buying of dedication for 
the lesser price. The department cannot 
afford to hire outside faculty, and has 
consequently been obliged to hire its 
own graduates instead.
Havekotte agreed that what the depart­
ment is buying is, indeed, dedication. He
feels, however, as do his colleagues, that 
the students in the department should have 
a say in who is hired. “In the past,” he 
said, “the chairman hand-picked the 
members of the faculty on the basis of 
their agreement with his philosophy of 
architectural education.” Consequently, 
students have been disenchanted with some 
of the staff, but can do little to change it.
Highlands, when asked if the image of 
the department or the quality of education 
was suffering as a result of lesser-paid 
faculty said, “the imageof the architecture 
department at Carnegie-Mellon University 
is of a high caliber insitituion. This image 
took a long time to build and was not 
easily attained. I do not expect it to dissi­
pate, although it could possibly erode over 
time.” The inability of the department to 
attract faculty at the current salary level, 
and its subsequent reliance on people of 
somewhat lesser quality who are willing to 
work for less, are the two primary cata­
lysts for this erosion. “How long can we 
keep top-notch faculty unless we can com­
pete with other institutions?” Highlands 
told the TARTAN. He also said that he is 
being pressured even now to reduce the size 
of the existing faculty, but has no inten­
tion of doing so. Though he believes the 
quality of education is now remaining 
fairly constant, “Any further reduction 
may seriously impair that quality.” If it 
comes to a showdown with Warner Hall on 
this matter, he predicted there would be 
“blood”.
Both Highlands and Havekotte express­
ed faith in Dr. Cyert’s support of the de­
partment. “Cyert truly wants CMU to be a 
strong institution,” Highlands said. He add­
ed that he takes Cyert “at his word”. 
Havekotte said, “we are pleased, as stu­
dents, with Cyert. He has asked us for in­
put and been receptive to our ideas.” “Un­
fortunately,” Havekotte said, “It takes time 
to acquire new faculty, and it takes time to 
negotiate with Warner Hall.” “I realize the 
University is not capable of doing all that 
is needed at one time,“ Highlands remark­
ed, “but we need to expedite the end re­
sult, that is, improved quality without 
financial jeopardy.” Apparently, Cyert has 
outlined procedures for dealing with the
department’s troubles. But aside from the 
cruciality of the time element, students 
see, in the inevitable alterations which will 
be affected in the department, a threat to 
its ideology. Viewing architecture as an art, 
they are wary of Cyert’s expressed interest 
in the field as a technical and business 
operation.
At present, the Architecture Depart­
ment is preparing for a visit of the National 
Architecture Accrediting Board. Every five 
years, the Board reviews the status of the 
department for accreditation. When asked 
about the likelihood of re-accreditation, 
Highlands said, “I have no doubts whatso­
ever that we will be accredited. The high 
quality and sophistication of the student’s 
works prohibits any question of that.” 
Highlands also commented that, “the visit
Housing
continued from page one
is an expected occupancy of 2094 stu­
dents. This would leave 14 empty spaces.
The room réévaluation, done over the 
semester break, was done by a committee 
from Residence Life which included two 
seniors, A1 Vecchi and Keith MacDonald. 
The purpose of the réévaluation was to 
find where spaces existed. According to 
Dean Williams, “There have always been 
some people living in much better rooms 
than others while paying the same price.” 
This was an attempt to make room rates 
more equitable. When asked if he thought 
the high increases might drive some peo­
ple to go off campus who would normal­
ly prefer to stay, Dean Williams said they 
might, but that it was not intended.
One major change is that the coops will 
no longer be cooperative units. Dean Wil­
liams explained that the university will 
take over the maintenance and custodian­
ship of these presently “substandard” 
living spaces. Occupancy in the coops 
will increase, and the price will go up by 
almost 44%.
Although the final prices for rooms will 
not be finalized until late this afternoon, 
the February 17 deadline for the $25 room
of the NAAB has been the vehicle for im­
proving the relationship between the archi­
tecture faculty and administration.” Hope­
fully, this improved relationship will serve 
as a further vehicle toward improved 
education.
* * *
Dr. Highlands is concerned with the role 
of the Architecture Department at CMU. 
He would like to see more interaction a- 
mong his and other departments, and is 
looking for a way in which Architecture 
could serve students outside the depart­
ment. One of his ideas is to open up a 
course to all students in the history of 
architecture. He would appreciate response 
to this proposal in the form of support 
or suggestions.
Prices Up
deposits remains. However, it will be refun­
dable if a written request is received by 
thi Residence Life Office by February 
25, 1976. This leaves two weeks to make 
a decision between the time the room 
rates are finalized and the time a twenty 
five dollar decision must be made. The 
March 30 deadline for the remaining $75 
room deposit remains. Although room 
réévaluation figures have been released, 
they are not final. Anyone who finds them 
unfair may take their complaints to the 
Residence Life Office, according to Dean 
Williams. Errors on this document will 
hopefully be corrected by February 17.
When questioned about the possibility 
of expanding the off campus housing loca­
tion services to aid those people who can’t 
or don’t want to pay the increased price of 
living on campus, Williams replied that 
there were no such plans.
Dean Williams emphasized that all of 
the figures for predicted occupancy levels 
are based on guesses. If less than the expec­
ted number of people want to live here, 
there will not be a problem.
######
THE
VERIGIN
WAY
OF
DEKTH
10February ¦ V THE RIGHT TO CHOOSE WHEN TO 
DIE: EUTHANASIA
9DrtRtA svnreFog zyMy Clinical Director,
Dept, of Psychiatry, St. Francis Hospital 
.tTRt7 LnreRnVg Professor of Health Law, 
University of Pittsburgh
17February I# SUICIDE
aSR7 'olFatBKg Director, Contact Pittsburgh
March 4L DEATH AND GRIEF: AN 
INTERRELIGIOUS VIEW
xt7na ST 9rnt 'nao0oSBe 'n1rnen7TtTo;ne
pry ztrV cSBoen .teRg Professor of Psychology.
Carlow College
ALL LECTURES ON CONSECUTIVE TUESDAY EVENINGS AT 7:30 PM IN THE 
WHERRETT ROOM. SKIBO EXCEPT MARCH 9 TO BE HELD IN BREED HALL. 
MARGARET MORRISON BUILDING AT CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
THE SERIES IS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
PROGRAM SPONSORED BY CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING, B\AI BRITH 
HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER UNIVERSITY AND CITY MINISTRY
March TT SOME THINGS TO CONSIDER: WILLS, 
BURIALS, DONATING BODY PARTS, 
ALTERNATIVES
wtroSBe xoTTeDBr0R rneSBrln 1nS1an 
voaa Dn 6oelBeeo70 TRnen TS1ole

---------------------------------------------------

xt0n P/THE TARTAN-February bug s•>*
FCILILIIIE# : TWO VIEWS
by Susan N. Klein
pTn1Rn7 pS7RnoAqe Follies oe t ABeolta 
tDSBT 0RSeTeY oT vte DSr7 en;nrta enteS7e 
t0S vRn7 TRn 7SeTta0ot DSSA S7 ¦rSt6vtV 
DrSB0RT Be rnTSBlRn6 rnaole aoFn No No 
Nanette. sRn ToTan Dnaone TRn enroSBe Br0n7T 
B76nrTS7n SK TRn eRSv$ oT oe t ASlFo70 
vtr7o70 TS TRSen vRS vSBa6 lnanDrtTn t 
eSrT SK .nv Mn1rneeoS7 o7 TRn i•>ufeg oT 
oe TRn t7ToTRneoe SK vRtT pBet7 pS7Tt0 
Ao0RT ltaa &ltA1y— sRn ABeol t76 aVrole 
trn AnrnaV Droaaot7Tg TRnV trn eTVao5n6 1trS3
6one SK TRn 1teTolRn KaBKK SK TRn 2on0Kna6 
nrt t76 TRn vSr6e t6AS7oeR Be lS7To7BtaaV 
TS &.n;nr aSSF DtlFy—
sRn 1atV TtFne 1atln tT t 1trTV tT TRn 
eSS7"TS"Dn 6nASaoeRn6 InoeAt77 sRntTrng 
vRnrn t KnoeTV Sa6 n7Trn1n7nBr Rte 6nlo6n6 
TS TRrSv t ateT rnB7oS7 KSr Roe b•Hufe 
eRSv"0oraey NSrAnr eTtreg Rte"Dnn7eg ;tB6n" 
;oaaot7eg ¦rSt6vtV DtDone vRS 7n;nr 0rnv 
B1 teenADan TS eo70 SBT TRnor aoKn eTSrone 
vRoan TRn 0RSeTe SK TRnor KSrAnr ena;ne At3
Tnrotao5n S7eTt0n te lV7olta rnAo76nre SK t7 
ntraonrg Rt11onr 1teTy
zoeTtFne Rt;n Dnn7 At6ng rn0rnTe trn 
rn;ntan6 DV TRn Ato7 lRtrtlTnrey xRVaaoe 
t76 ¦n7^tAo7 pTS7n trn B7Rt11oaV n73
Trt11n6 o7 t Benanee Atrrot0ny ¦B66V 
xaBAAnr oe RtB7Tn6 DV Roe o7tDoaoTV TS aS;n 
TRn ro0RT 1nreS7g Roe voKn ptaaV oe eToaa o7 
aS;n voTR Rnr Sa6 KatAng ¦n7 pTS7ny sRnor 
1nreS7ta KSaaone trn ABaToKSa6g TRnV trn 
KSBr 1nS1an o7n4TroltDaV DSB76 o7 TRn Dt3
7taoTV SK rnta aoKny
The book by James Goldman is at best 
servicable, riddled with embarrassingly 
pedestrian monologues that become self­
consciously funny when they arc meant to 
be poignant. The real stars of the evening
trn TRn at;oeR eS70"t76"6t7ln 7BADnreg 
Tvn7TV"TvS o7 taag ntlR S7n voTR eRSv" 
eTS11nr 1STn7Totay sRn aVrole trn pS76RnoA 
tT Roe ASeT t6n1Ty sRn eS70e trn RntrTKnaT 
VnT B7en7ToAn7Tta TroDBTne TS aVroloeTe SK 
TRn 1teTy sRnrn trn vtrA cSrn75 LtrToeR 
Dtaat6eg t Ro7T SK po0AB76 'SADnr0 o7 TRn 
6BnT One More Kissg t aS;n"7STn TS TRn 
0rntT ­San xSrTnr ltaan6 Ail, Paris, taa SK 
vRolR eBr1tee TRnor Sro0o7e :VoTR t lteBta 
6SKK SK TRn RtT t76 t 0n7Tang TRSB0R 1Br3
1SenKBa FolF o7 TRn rntry
sRoe ABeolta oe Ant7T TS DBreT TRn 
TRntTrn o7 TnrAe SK 0rt76oSen 1rS6BlToS7$ 
tT ToAne TRn eo5n t76 elS1n SK TRn eRSv 
ennAe TS rB7 tvtV voTR oTenaKy sRn SrlRne3
Trt oe S;nr1Svnro70 t76 TnlR7olta 6oKKolBa3
Tone AtFn KSr ;trotToS7e o7 TRn tB6oDoaoTV SK 
TRn tlTSrey sRn 6ornlToS7 SK yTRoe AtAASTR 
lorlBe vte eRtrn6 DV ctvrn7ln ­trrt t76 
'SDnrT xt0n$ TRnV ABeT Rt;n KnaT aoFn TvS" 
aoS7 TtAnre TrVo70 TS rneTrto7 vRtT Ao0RT 
nteoaV Rt;n DnlSAn t rtA1t0n SK ASS6e 
t76 AnaS6oney sRn rneBaTg rtTRnrgSK IoaaotA 
.naeS7qe ao0RTo70 t76 'S7 LnoaAt7fe lSe3
TBAne DtTRne TRn eTt0n o7 1tang 6ntTR"aoFn 
eoa;nre t76 olV vRoTneg TRn 1o7Fe t76 rn6e 
Rt70 aoFn eolF voaTo70 rSene o7 ;troSBe 
eTt0ne SK Kt6o70Y TRn lSaSre SK TRn 1rS3
6BlToS7 trn TRnrnKSrn o7 1nrKnlT RtrAS7V 
voTR TRn TRnAney
The cast, made up of a combination of 
both music and drama students, works in 
ajieatly symbiotic fashion. The beautiful 
voice of one person complements another’s 
graceful dancing, which in turn enhances 
another’s handiness with dialogue. If we 
are indeed to have a musical-theatre train­
ing program as planned ¿it Carnegie-Mellon 
in the coming years, the meshing of depart­
mental talents in this production might
change the minds of those who would still 
be skeptics. Actors and musicians who have 
been trained with divergent techniques for 
months come together here with the grace 
and ease of an ensemble company. Besides 
being entertaining, this particular produc­
tion is a demonstration of how education 
in the performing arts works.
The music department boasted the Fine 
baritone of Michael Weiser as Benjamin 
Stone, looming stiff like petrified wood, 
afraid of failure, terrified of his wife. Weis­
er has some tough, awkward dialogue to 
contend with, but once he hacks through 
that, he’s a pleasure to listen to. The same 
goes for Dorothy Stanley, who as Sally 
gets to sing the only number in the show 
which became something of a popular 
success. Losing My Mind. The song has 
a chilling saxophone solo which crawls up 
your spine and which bespeaks the char­
acter’s fragility; it is one of the most ten­
der moments of the show.
Ron Ferro is Buddy Plummer, eyes all 
agog, bobbling from one person to the next 
with that frantic travelling-salesman, eager- 
to-please smile barely covering his inner 
emptiness. Ferro has a terrific time with
The-God- Why-Don ’t- You-Love-Me-Blues, a 
mock vaudeville sketch loaded with schtick 
the Sondheim lyrics sarcastic and bitter 
and wonderfully true. The best one-liners 
are handled by Roberta Farkas. Because 
of her wonderful comic timing, Farkas 
turns the character of Phyllis Stone into 
the kind of cutting yet queenly bitch that 
Eve Arden used to play, with a hint of Mae 
West-ish temptress thrown in. All four 
main characters have a sort of “mad” scene 
to play during the Loveland sequence, the 
musical becoming a sort of singing-dancing 
Truth Game. The matchless, devastating 
ironies of the lyrics have been superbly 
crafted by Sondheim, and Phyllis’ number, 
The Story of Lucy and Jessie, easily wins 
as the composer's most flagrant dismissal 
of past regrets.
Kathleen Moore, Paul Benjamin and par­
ticularly Chris Somma and James Rubbo
make absolutely charming ghosts; when 
you see the show you will understand how 
a ghost can become more endearing than 
his counterpart in reality. The biggest 
treat in the first act is who’s That Woman, 
in which.all the old show-girls look into the 
mirrored past as their young ghosts sing 
along with an almost evil glee. The number 
is lead by Jo Sennett, who plays a battered 
babe named Stella Deems. She is willing 
to try hoofing one more time, she has 
what-the-hell written all over her face as 
she shouts “hit it, baby” to the band 
leader. The hardest thing about this show 
may well be that young actors are playing 
old actors playing at being young actors; 
Sennett is the best at it, one forgets her 
age.
The dancing ensemble amazes us be­
cause there is no real dance program per se 
at this university, save for an occasional 
class with the resident Master. But Paul 
Welterlen polishes the boards like a rubber­
legged pro, as do Diane Fratantoni and 
Laura Solow. The best dancer by far in the 
production is Roscoe Gilliam, who grins 
through every number like he was having 
more fun than the entire cast put together; 
he is a stylized performer and when he 
raises his shoulders and cocks his top hat 
forward you get the feeling he’s never 
missed a step in his life.
When Follies opened, critics raved that 
it was a musical to end all musicals. It is 
hardly that. What Sondheim did was use all 
the conventions of vaudeville, burlesque, 
Busby Berkeley , Flo Ziegfeld all the way up 
through Gower Champion, and combine 
their escapist tenets with the mental dis­
enchantment wrought by the social insti­
tutions of our age. Follies somehow decries 
the American cultural obsession with the 
preservation of youth and beauty. The 
show ends where it began, the past cannot 
be changed; the lights come down like the 
final flicker of a falling star. This is an 
admirable production of a difficult show.
I only wish they had spelled Sondheim’s 
name correctly in the program.L
10$88$ 6442$:.-*:*8s
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
in the Regulation of Civilian Nuclear Power
The newly established Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
(NRC) is responsible for performing the licensing and 
regulatory functions which were formerly part of the 
activities of the Atomic Energy Commission. These 
functions emphasize an obligation to assure that 
civilian uses of nuclear materials and facilities are con­
ducted in a manner consistent with the public health 
and safety, environmental quality, national security, 
and pertinent antitrust laws.
As part of the professional staffing program, NRC 
utilizes new or recent college graduates, primarily in 
the engineering disciplines at the B.S. and M.S. levels 
who desire to direct their talents toward the resolution 
of challenging problems in the nuclear regulatory field.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission offers em­
ployment stability and professional growth op­
portunities of an expanding industry, the challenge of 
rewarding work, competitive salaries, and the benefits 
of career federal employment.
Professional Positions Available for December, June 
and August Graduates at the BS, MS Levels in:
Nuclear Engineering Civil Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Chemical Engineering
Electrical Engineering Environmental Engineering
Materials Engineering Health Physicist
Sign up for interview.
Our representative will be on campus 
February 17,1976
Or pick up career information at your placement office
ana
Send resume or our application to:
U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 
Division of Organization & Personnel 
Recruitment Branch 
Washington, D C. 20555 
Include grade record or transcript 
Reputable academic performance required
An Equal Opportunity Employer - U.S. Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—February 10, 1976-Page 9
by Carolyn Davidson
'SDnrTt NtrFte t76 zolRtna Inoenr
Photo by Mark Segal
sRn S7aV vSr6 TootT lt7 Dn Ben6 TS eBA3
Atro5n TRn ^So7T MrtAt t76 zBeol Mn1trT3
An7T 1rS6BlToS7 SK Follies oe TtlFVy 9KTnr 
eBKKnro70 TRrSB0R KSrTV"Ko;n Ao7BTne SK 
SrlRneTrta TB7o70 B1 ABeol 6ornlTSr 'SDnrT 
xt0n AtFne Roe 0rt76 n7Trt7ln t76 TRn KSa3
aone Dn0o7y NSaaone lS7lnr7e TRn AnaS6rtAtO 
Tol rSAt7Tol RoeTSrV SK xRVaaoe t76 ptaaVg 
TvS KSrAnr eRSv0orae vRS AnnT tT t rnB7o3
S7 Rna6 tT TRn TRntTrn o7 vRolR TRnV vnrn 
6oelS;nrn6y sRn enTy t lan;nr lSADo7tToS7 
SK TRn tlTBta vtaae SK TRn Grne0n sRntTrn 
t76 eoA1an lS7eTrBlToS7 eltKKSa6o70g oe te 
nKKnlTo;n te TRn sRntTrn oTenaK oe 7STy sRn 
eTt0n oe tT ToAne aoTnrtaaV DBreTo70 voTR tl3
TSre DBA1o70 o7TS S7n t7STRnry 9T S7n 
1So7T TRn &0RSeTh eRSv0orae Rt;n TS rnTrtlT 
TRnor SBTeTrnTlRn6 Rt76e eS te TS t;So6 RoT3
To70 STRnr AnADnre SK TRn lteTy
sRn tlTSre trn 7ST TRn S7aV S7ne 
lrtA1n6y sRn TRorTV"S66 1onln SrlRneTrt 
eoTe DnaSv TRn eTt0ng 6So70 oTe DneT TS SD3
elBrn TRn ;SltaoeTey 'BASr Rte oT TRtT Dn3
ltBen SK TRn oAAn7en SrlRneTrtg TRn eRSv 
Rt6 TS Dn AoFn6 t76 tA1aoKon6g ^BeT t Knv 
6tVe DnKSrn oTe S1n7o70y X7KSrTB7tTnaVg TRn 
AoFne 6o6 t DnTTnr ^SD SK 1olFo70 B1 TRn 
SrlRneTrt TRt7 TRnV 6o6 TRn tlTSrey
sRn eln7nrV SK TRn NSaaone cS;nat76 en3
«Bn7ln oe laBAeVg 6rS11o70 tDrB1TaV KrSA
TRn Kaoney X7aoFn TRn .nv -SrF 1rS6BlToS7 
vRnrn TRn NSaaone enT 0rtlnKBaaV 6neln76n6g 
TRn ­zX 1rS6BlToS7 rnenADane t eB66n7 
t76 ;oSan7T rto7Ktaay ¦BTy 6ne1oTn TRn 1SSr 
enTy 6ornlToS7 t76 lSS1nrtToS7 DnTvnn7 Sr3
lRneTrt t76 lteTg TRnrn vnrn eSAn TrBaV 
SBTeTt76o70 1nrKSrAt7lney 'S7 NnrrS te 
¦B66V xaBAAnr vte eB1nrD$ lS7TroDBTo70 
t7 n4lnaan7T ;Solng lSADo7n6 voTR eSAn SK 
TRn Ko7neT 6t7lo70 o7 TRoe 1rS6BlToS7y MSrS3
TRV pTt7anVg te ptaaV t76 'SDnrTt NtrFte te 
xRVaaoe DSTR 0t;n ;nrV rne1nlTtDan 1nrKSr3
At7lney taTRSB0R oT oe SKTn7 ;nrV 6oKKolBaT 
TS 6oelnr7 zey pTt7anVfe ;Soln KrSA tAS70 
t DateT SK o7eTrBAn7Tey
97STRnr TroBA1R vte 'S7 LnoaAt7fe 
lSeTBAney sRnV 0t;n aoKn TS TRn t11rS1ro3
tTnaV 6Baa enT t76 lSaSr TS t7 STRnrvoen 
lSaSranee 1rS6BlToS7y 9aa o7 taay TRn eTB3
6n7Te trn TS Dn lS70rtTBatTn6 KSr TRnor 
0n7nrtaaV eBllneeKBa nKKSrTeg vRoan TRnor 
ASrn n41nron7ln6 o7eTrBlTSre eRSBa6 Dn 
KaS00n6 KSr eS nADtrrteeo70 t TRntTrolta 
^BADany
d;nrVTRo70 KrSA TRn ABeolot7e 
vntro70 eTrnnT laSTRne TS TRn eTtorvtVe 
vRolR eao6n tvtV voTR TRn 6t7lnre oe atr 
DnaSv TRn MrtAt Mn1trTAn7Tfe BeBta Kator 
KSr 1rSKneeoS7taoeAy ¦ro70 DtlF TRn Krnn3
Doney
DHMCE HLLDflV/
Rponee* RecoRDs tiontffgr «Rnsrs
Jt.:oo -r» 5i<x> xz" NT•'u©'w IHTH in S*‘Bo ¦rB"'SSê9
SPofJSoREP JM 0$8 FI ©- LECTURE ftND SPeilRL EVêaITS COMMITTEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976
Hollyivood Trash
by Randell Scott Hunt
Lucky Lady has had three different 
closings tacked onto it, but you might nev­
er notice it since the conclusion has the 
same deficiencies as what preceeds it. This 
film begins in a lazy, seedy Mexican atmos­
phere and retains a slow and sloppy mood 
throughout the picture. The title is taken 
from the name of the boat which is used to
WtÊtÊÊtÊÊËHUm
she has a sentimental line to deliver she 
fumbles. During the scene when she dis­
cards her society friends she pets a haughty 
Siamese cat. Silky and manicured, it sym­
bolizes all she is giving up. Minnelli says, 
“She (the cat) is real pretty, but I gotta 
go someplace and she won’t like it there.” 
This line is delivered in a way more humor­
ous than heartbreaking. Minnelli has dem­
onstrated that she is a talented dramatic
the bubonic plague. There is an exchange 
in the middle of the movie that is applica­
ble to the whole film; the trio checks into 
a swank hotel in San Diego after their sale 
of liquor to a parched Prohibition America. 
Speculating on their occupations, the 
bellhop says to the desk clerk, “What do 
you think, gangsters?” The desk clerk re- 
plys, “No. Hollywood trash.”
co5t zo77naao t11ntre t66an6y Un7n LtlFAt7 aSSFe lS7eTo1tTn6g ¦BrT 'nV7Sa6e ennAe 7S7"1aBeen6y 9aa TRoe t76 anee lt7 Dn KSB76 o7 cX­G- c9M-y
run Canadian whiskey into Prohibition 
America by the three stars of the movie, 
Liza Minnelli, Burt Reynolds, and Gene 
Hackman. They form a partnership, both 
financial and sexual. Minnelli attempts to
hide her underworld dealings by involving 
herself with a society man and his clique, 
but her loyalty to Hackman and Reynolds 
is revived after they risk death for her.
Director Stanley Donen does a mediocre 
job in this picture, with an occasional 
clever shot offset by many inferior sequen­
ces. The pacing is poor, and the direction 
doesn’t improve any other aspects of the 
motion picture. Like Jack Clayton in The 
Great Gatsby, he wastes time gazing at 
the scenery, impressing us with the Film’s 
budget instead of its brains.
The screenplay is aruiudc and senile. 
The jokes are worn-thin as the corpses of 
the writers who originated these kinds of 
lines in the twenties. After running illegal 
migrants through to the U.S. — Mexican 
border, Liza Minnelli states, “Well, you 
sure got here at a snail’s gallop!” Old is not 
the definition of classic.
Liza Minnelli handles her background 
tunes competently but is miscast and 
clumsily approaches her part. She is sup­
posed to be sexy but she affects a coarse 
Brooklyn accent that contradicts the 
entire idea. Instead of an earth sensuality 
she projects vulgarity, like an aged whore 
devastated by time. Any instance where
actress in previous movies, why doesn’t she 
show us now?
Burt Reynolds protrays a charming dolt 
who is unsuited to criminal dealings. His 
meager talents surface only when he re­
moves his apparel. His furry body may be 
sensational in Cosmopolitan but is tiresome 
in motion pictures, especially since model­
ing is all he has done in previous films (i.e. 
Hustle, White Lightning, etc.). He appa­
rently hasn’t learned from his experience in 
At Long Last Love that he should avoid 
light comedies. He probably knows that 
he only has to rely on his beauty and mag­
netism to retain his high box office posi­
tion. He is the most recent of the Errol 
Flynn-Tyrone Power species of male star; 
another pretty void. He should return to 
action-adventure roles, for example, his 
Dan August show on television.
Gene Hackman strolls through his part 
as the experienced pseudo-hood who 
teaches his partners how to survive in the 
illicit importing trade. He seems like he’s 
still exhausted from his characterization as 
Popeye Doyle in French Connection II, 
and apears to be conserving his energies 
for more substantial activities.
Robby Benson, a current cult-figure for 
pre-adolescent girls, has a small role in 
which he proves that this should be his 
last. His acting talents could be dwarfed 
by Burt Reynolds.
This trite non-effort isn’t worth any­
one’s money, being less entertaining than
LAYER CUTS 
WEDGE CUTS CHINA DOLL CUTS PAGETS 
VOLUMETRIC HAIRCUTTING 
VOLUMETRIC PPRM
Cor$o‘s Mair People
For the latest in men's and women's hair styles 
We sell RK
682-9480121 Oakland Avenue
On February 14 JULIAN STANCZAK 
will be present for the preview of his exhi­
bition of recent works at KINGPITCHER 
GALLERY. The show which includes 
paintings and graphics will continue 
through March 3.
Since 1963 STANCZAK has exhibited 
extensively throughout this country and 
the world. He has had one-man exhibitions 
at Martha Jackson Gallery, New York,
F.eingartne Gallery, Los Angeles, Mackler 
Gallery, Philadelphia, Corcoran Gallery of 
Art, Washington D.C., and the Pollock 
Gallery in Toronto. His work has been 
included in numerous group shows: The 
Japan Cultural Forum in Tokyo, Smithso­
nian Institution, Whitney Museum of Art, 
Philadelphia Art Alliance, American Feder­
ation of Artists in New York, Cleveland 
Museum of Art, and The Lowe Museum in 
Florida.
“. . . With Stanczak, delicate geometries 
are made from color interacting not only 
with itself but with straight line. His forms 
are breathed upon the air. In black and 
white, too, and in the drawings on metalic 
paper, space is mobilized and form suggest­
ed almost entirely by the adjustment of 
straight lines.” (Gene Baro, Director, 
Corcoran Gallery of Art)
The International Poetry Forum will 
present Milton Katselas in “The Poetry of 
Greece in Words and Music” on Saturday, 
February 21, at 8:00 pm in Carnegie Lec­
ture Hall. Accompanying Mr. Katselas 
will be Sotos Kappas on bouzouki and 
Kathy Greenstone on guitar, and they will 
also sing Greek songs either solo or in duet. 
Mr. Katselas will present readings of mod­
ern Greek poems and dramatic passages in 
English translation.
Tickets for this special program are 
$6.00 and are available at Kaufmann’s, 
the Pitt Student Union and the Poetry 
____________________continued on page eleven
Do You Know About 
Food Service Coupon Books?
9Mw9.s9UdpY
Save 5% on Meals
Purchasing Power, Even When Your Funds
Run Low
N8' IL8zY
Anyone — Students, Staff or Faculty Members 
Any Individual Interested in a Reduction Food 
Expenditures at Any Food Service Facility.
9w9ic9¦cdY
Skiho Room 201 
Book Store
COST;

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—February 10, 1976—Page 11
Pittsburgh Opera's BicentennialiaOn The
by Susan Galardi
A common technique used in the arts is 
to translate original work into a different 
medium. Novels become films, poetry 
yields to song, and music is dramatized 
¡in dance. The results of such attempts are 
unpredictable, and range from gross mis­
interpretation to a true chef-d’oeuvre. The 
opera based on Arthur Miller’s The Cruci­
ble is one of the more successful art adap­
tations. Miller had, in fact, originally 
thought the material might be better suited 
for an opera than a play. The work conse­
quently lent itself easily to an operatic 
production, containing the basic essentials; 
spirited stage drama, a diversity of charac­
ters, and well-conceived dialogue.
The story reveals many of the false 
motives that prompted the Salem witch 
trials of 1692. When Elizabeth Proctor is 
accused of witchcraft by Abigail Williams, 
(her young house servant) John Proctor 
insists it is a “whore’s vengeance, since he 
is guilty of lechery with the girl. Adultery, 
greed, and personal animosities became 
ample reason to condemn thy neighbor, 
in the name of the Lord.
The composer of the opera, Robert
Ward, conducted the orchestra, which 
sounded well above the vocalists. Vigor­
ously wielding the baton at the instru­
ments, Ward appeared totally unconscious 
of the singers. The fourth wall seemed to 
be between the stage and the pit. Frequent­
ly, one would be overwhelmed by the 
orchestra whizzing by, while straining to 
understand the singing. Whether the instru­
ments were too loud, or the voices too 
soft, the result was hardly a delicate musi­
cal synthesis.
However, some of the singers managed 
to be heard. Both leading performers, 
baritone Julian Patrick in the role of John 
Proctor, and soprano Karan Armstrong as 
Abigail, revealed marked dramatic and vo­
cal acheivements. Ms. Armstrong’s voice 
was especially fresh, while Mr. Patrick’s 
tone was clear and well directed. Gwenlynn 
Little is also to be applauded for her pliant 
vocal quality, as well as for her animated 
portrayal of Mary Warren. The role of 
Elizabeth Proctor was well acted by 
Mildred Miller, and Giles Corey was played 
by the brilliant tenor, Arthur Graham.
Barbara Karp’s stage direction was pre­
dominantly exciting, as were the sets.
The homes of the Parises’ and Proctors' 
had all the crude charm of New England 
cabins, complete.with stone fireplaces and 
unfinished wooden furniture. The bare 
stage used for the confrontation in the 
woods between John Proctor, (clad in 
grey wool) and Abigail, (wearing a draping 
jade robe), created a visual scene of simplis­
tic beauty. It added to the atmosphere of 
the basic, pure emotions felt between the 
characters, specifically Proctor’s strong 
anxiety and Abigail’s passionate lust.
At one point the production seemed 
like an experiment in rear projection. 
Throughout most of the acts, slides of trees 
sufficed as background scenery. During 
the trial in the third act, when Abigail 
pretends to see a yellow bird swoop around 
the meeting house as a sign of Satan’s 
presence, the projected backdrop became 
solid yellow. Later, flames were projected 
in the backgound as John Proctor is 
accused of being the Devil’s man. This in 
particular was especially trite. These two 
isolated disturbances in the rear pro­
jection seemd to be afterthought, since the 
effect was fortunately not attempted at 
any other time.
It is this lack of coherence and unity 
that was the basic fault with the produc­
tion, especially in terms of the orchestra 
and voices. All of the parts failed to unite 
and form an integrated whole. This is, 
in essence, the goal of opera. Good music, 
and interesting libretto, and accomplished 
artists are only the beginnings; these must 
be sensitively combined for a great perfor­
mance to result. Judging by this criteria, 
the production of The Crucible could not 
be heralded as a great performance. How­
ever, to choose the work for the “Special 
Bicentennial Production” was not ill- 
reasoned. The opera was created by and 
about Americans. First performed in 1961, 
The Crucible is one of the few operas that 
has both'nationalistic and patriotic quali­
ties, which are requisite for a production 
under the “Bicentennial” title. But 
this type of event, by focusing attention on 
American music, will serve as an impetus 
for future compositions. This, in fact, has 
already begun, with government commis­
sions for American premieres. How long 
that will continue is questionable. But at 
least a trend has begun that is likely to ex­
tend beyond the celebration of 1976.
continued from page ten
Forum office in Carnegie Library, Oakland. 
Season subscribers are entitled to a 25% 
discount on one ticket.
The Pittsburgh City Players return to 
the Allegheny Community Theater for a 
second season of performances, opening 
ianuary 22, with The Beggar’s Opera, by 
John Gay, directed by Gregory Lehane. 
The play is offered free to the public by 
telephone reservation: 231-3752. The show 
runs Thursday, Friday, and Saturday even­
ings at 8:00 pm and Saturday matinees at 
2:00 pm thru Feb. 21.
The Beggar’s Opera, is a rousing musical, 
the first musical play to be produced in 
colonial America, and a great favorite of
George Washington. It is one of the most 
performed of all plays internationally, and
has been adapted in a famous version 
known as “The Threepenny Opera”, by 
Bertold Brecht.
The Pittsburgh City Players have just 
completed a tour of senior citizen centers 
where they performed an original version 
of “A Christmas Carol” . . . The company 
of professional actors and technicians is 
sponsored by the Department of Parks and 
Recreation. They performed a highly suc­
cessful original show, “Dracula” at the Al­
legheny Community Theater last summer, 
and have been conducting classes for 
children and adults which are free, and are 
held at the theater and several community 
recreation sites.
Radu Lupu, winner of three of the 
world’s most prestigious piano competi­
tions -- the Leeds, 1969; Georges Enesco, 
1967 and Van Cliburn Contest, 1966 - will 
make his Pittsburgh debut in two Heinz 
Hall concerts with the Pittsburgh Sym 
phony, Friday, February 20 at 8:30 pm 
and Sunday, February 22 at 3 pm.
Czech conductor, Zdenek Macal will be 
on the podium for the program which in­
cludes the Beethoven “Piano Concerto 
No. 5 in E-flat major, Opus 73” - Lupu as 
soloist - and Tschaikowsky’s “Symphony 
No. 5 in E minor, Opus 64.” This will be 
the second of two guest appearances this 
season by Mr. Macal.
SCIENCE 
TECHNOLOGY 
HUMAN VALUES
People, Machines and Productivity
February 11 Donald Burnham, Vice-Chairperson, 
National Commission on Productivity
Economics as if People Mattered 
February 25 (a discussion of Small is Beautiful by
E. F. Schumacher) Hazel Henderson, Co-Directeur, Princeton ^
Center for Alternative Futures
Machines and Values
March 10 (a discussion of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle 
Maintenance by R. N. Pirsig) Leon Harmon, Department of Bio-Medical 
Engineering, Case Western Reserve
Computing and Thinking
March 31’ (a discussion of computer usage and its effect on people’s self image)
Allen Newell, University Professor, Carnegie-Mellon University
All forums are on Wednesday evenings at 7:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning Program on Science and Humanities Program on Society and Technology 
Free; Open to the Public.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976
McCarthy Criticizes Uncritical Acceptance
by Kris Mamula and
Rick Costa
p1ntFo70 tT ­zX S7 NnDrBtrV ,TRg 
KSrAnr pn7tTSr dB0n7n zl­trTRV teFn6 
TRtT TRn o6nte TRtT 9Anrolt7e Rt;n lSAn TS 
tlln1T tDSBT 0S;nr7An7Tg TRn 1Svnr SK TRn 
1rneo6n7lVg t76 tDSBT aoKn eTVane lSAn B73
6nr n4tAo7tToS7 o7 TRn B1lSAo70 1rneo6n73
Tota nanlToS7y
Ln Dn0t7 Roe e1nnlR DV teenrTo70 TRtT 
9Anrolt7 o7;Sa;nAn7T o7 wonT7tA vte 
7ST t7 tllo6n7Tg DBT TRn rneBaT SK Trn76e 
S1nrtTo70 eo7ln ISra6 Itr iiy 9KTnr TRn 
vtrg vRolR zl­trTRV rnKnrrn6 TS te t 
&1rS1nr vtrg— TRn X7oTn6 pTtTne n7;o3
eoS7n6 oTenaK te TRn 0rntTneT 1Svnr o7 TRn 
vSra6y [SR7 MBaane vte eo70an6 SBT DV 
zl­trTRV te Rt;o70 neTtDaoeRn6 SA7o3
1rnen7T lSAAoTAn7Te voTR KSrno07 7tToS7e 
o7 TRn alJmueg lSAAoTAn7Te vRolR lS7To3
7Bn6 TS Dn RS7Srn6 DV KBTBrn t6Ao7oeTrt3
ToS7eg o7laB6o70 MnASlrtTol S7neg ntlao 
voTR ASrn Knr;Sr TRt7 TRn 1rn;oSBe S7ny 
zl­trTRV taeS lroTolo5n6 'SDnrT zl.tAt3
rtfe trrS0t7ln voTR rn0tr6 TS Xp AoaoTtrV 
1Svnr t76 Roe 6neorn TS Dn 7BAnroltaaV 
1rn1trn6 KSr t7V lS7To70n7lVy zl­trTRV 
Ato7Tto7n6 TRtT TRnen o6nte trn eToaa tl3
ln1Tn6 DV An7 eBlR te NSr6g 'nt0t7 t76 
Goeeo70nry Ln Dnaon;ne TRtT taTRSB0R TRn Xp 
ABeT Ato7Tto7 TRn eTrS70neT trAV o7 IneT3
nr7 dBrS1ng Rn Dnaon;ne TRn &'Beeot7 
TRrntT— oe n4t00nrtTn6y Ln Knnae TRtT rnln7T 
pS;onT tTTnA1Te TS lSaS7o5n 9Krolt voaa 
7nlneetroaV KaSB76nry
sRn enlS76 enT SK o6nte zl­trTRV lro3
Tolo5n6 trn TRSen rnatTo70 TS TRn lS7ln1T SK
t7 oA1nrota 1rneo6n7lVy po7ln TRn doen73
RSvnr t6Ao7oeTrtToS7g oT Rte DnlSAn o73
lrnteo70aV 1S1Batr TS TRo7F TRtT 1SaoTolta 
ant6nreRo1 eRSBa6 Dn 6nAS7eTrtTn6 TRrSB0R 
TRn SKKoln SK TRn 1rneo6n7Ty zl­trTRV Dn3
aon;ne TRoe o6nt Rte an6 TS t 1BDaol 6neorn KSr 
t 0rntTnr 1nreS7tao5tToS7 SK TRn 1rneo6n7lVy 
sRn 1Svnr SK TRn 1rneo6n7T o7lrnten6 
TRrSB0R TRn Gn77n6V t76 [SR7eS7 Vntre 
t76 rntlRn6 t 1ntF 6Bro70 TRn .o4S7 t63
Ao7oeTrtToS7y NSr n4tA1ang zl­trTRV 7ST3
n6 TRtT xrneo6n7T [SR7eS7 SDTto7n6 ­S73
0rneeoS7ta t11rS;ta KSr o7Tnr;n7ToS7 o7 
wonT7tAg TRn UBaK SK sS7Fo7 'neSaBToS7g 
vRoan xrneo6n7T .o4S7 teeBAn6 TRtT Roe 
6nloeoS7 TS o7;t6n ­tADS6ot vte t 1trT SK 
Roe 1rneo6n7Tota 1Svnry ­S7en«Bn7TaVg zl3
­trTRV ltaan6 KSr t rn"n4tAo7tToS7 SK TRn 
1rneo6n7Tqe rSany
zl­trTRV taeS «BneToS7n6 TRn nKKnlTo;n3
7nee SK TRn TvS"1trTV 1SaoTolta eVeTnAy 
LoAenaK t7 o76n1n76n7T lt76o6tTn KSr 1rne3
o6n7Tg Rn loTn6 TRn 7SAo7tToS7e SK 'olRtr6 
.o4S7 t76 TRn KtoaBrn SK TRn MnASlrtTe TS 
6nKntT RoA te n4tA1ane SK TRn TvS"1trTV 
eVeTnAqe eRSrTlSAo70ey Ln eTrS70aV lroTo3
lo5n6 TRn rnln7T danlToS7 'nKSrA 9lTg 
vRolR vSBa6 Krnn5n TRn 1SaoTolta 1rSlnee 
o7TS TRn TvS"1trTV eVeTnA t76 AtFn oT 
;orTBtaaV oA1SeeoDan KSr t7 o76n1n76n7T TS 
DnlSAn 1rneo6n7Ty Ln 7STn6 TRtT TRn 1rne3
eBrn SK 1trTV aSVtaTV Ant7e TRtT 0S;nr73
An7T SKKolotae SKTn7 tDt76S7 TRnor 1ro7lo3
1aney zl­trTRV taeS eto6 TRtT o7 t TvS"1trTV 
eVeTnAg TRn 1trTV SBT SK 1Svnrg TRn aSVta 
S11SeoToS7g SKTn7 Knnae n7ToTan6 TS Dn o73
lSA1nTn7T t76 orrne1S7eoDan o7 Sr6nr TS 
AtFn TRn 1trTV o7 1Svnr t11ntr o7nKKnl3
X.iwd'pis- 8'9s8'- 8N 
sLd L8cs pxi'is x9'ipL
­zX ­9zxXp
SATURDAY MASS...........................................7tOO PM. - Toch Houm
SUNDAY MASS.........................10:30 AJA. — Sdonco Hal^Rm 7500)
DAIIY MASS (Mon.-frl.|.................................StOO PM. — Toch Houm
Pathors John Welsh or Sob English 
Toch Hous 9125 Margaret Morrison 621 >2911
To;ny
zl­trTRV laSen6 Roe e1nnlR voTR t ltaa 
KSr TRn o76o;o6Bta TS «BneToS7 Dteol 9Anro3
lt7 DnaonKe t76 o6ntae TRtT At7V Rt;n lSAn 
TS tlln1Ty Ln vt7Te TRn 9Anrolt7 1nS1an 
TS rnlS;nr TRn 1BDaol Ao76n67nee vRolR 
[SR7 96tAe vrSTn te Dno70 1rn;tan7T 
6Bro70 TRn 9Anrolt7 'n;SaBToS7y sRrSB0R3
SBT Roe e1nnlRg TRnrn vte t 6nlo6n6 nA1Rt3
eoe S7 TRn 1Svnr SK o6nte t76 rtToS7taoTVy 
Ln Dnaon;ne TRtT ItTnr0tTn t76 TRn rnln7T 
N¦i"­b9 rn;natToS7e Rt;n lrntTn6 TRn ro0RT 
laoAtTn KSr rtToS7ta rn"n4tAo7tToS7e SK TRn 
1SaoTolta 1rSlneeney zl­trTRV Dnaon;ne TRtT 
0nTTo70 Roe Aneet0n TS TRn 1BDaol oe ^BeT t 
AtTTnr SK eRSvo70 TRnAy Ln 6oe1BTne TRn 
o6nt TRtT Roe eB11SrT oe lS7Ko7n6 TS lSaan0n 
eTB6n7Te t76 o7TnaanlTBtaey Ln eTtTn6 TRtT 
Roe 1roAtrV B1enTe SK b•*P SllBrrn6 DnKSrn 
lSaan0n eTB6n7Te lSBa6 ;STny 97 to6n SK 
Roe tKKorAn6 TRtT zl­trTRVqe 7tAn oe 
TRor6 o7 rnlS07oToS7 SK taa TRn 1rneo6n7Tota 
lS7Tn76nrey LSvn;nrg oT ennAe t11rS1rotTn 
TS «BneToS7 TRn 6n0rnn SK rtToS7taoTV SK TRn 
0n7nrta 9Anrolt7 1S1Batlny NSr n4tA1ang 
o7 TRn «BneToS7"t76"t7evnr 1nroS6 KSaaSv3
o70 TRn anlTBrng S7n vSAt7 teFn6 zl­tr3
TRV TRtT oK Rn vte nanlTn6 vSBa6 TRoe Ant7 
TRtT TRn lSB7TrV vSBa6 Rt;n t AS7trlRVg 
eo7ln Rn oe t7 i76n1n76n7Ty 976g eRn vS73
6nrn6g oK TRoe vSBa6 Dn eSg vSBa6 Rn TRn7 
Dn tDan TS lt7lna TRn 0S;nr7An7Tqe 6nDTey
i7 t7 o7Tnr;onv voTR TRn s9's9.g 
zl­trTRV KSlBen6 S7 trnte Rn Rt6 7ST 
lS;nrn6 o7 Roe e1nnlRy zSeT oA1SrTt7T 
vnrn Roe eTtTnAn7Te S7 TRn nlS7SAVy Ln 
Knnae TRtT 9Anrolt7e ABeT lRt70n TRnor 
aoKn"eTVane t76 7S aS70nr n41nlT t roeo70 
U.x Sr Rt;n B7aoAoTn6 lS7eBA1ToS7 
6neorney Ln vt7Te TS lBT 6Sv7 S7 TRn vteTn
SK rneSBrlney Ln 0t;n TRn n4tA1an SK TRn 
tBTSASDoan o76BeTrVg vRnrn >P DoaaoS7 
6Saatre trn vteTn6 n;nrV Vntry Ln S11Sene 
TRn 7SToS7 TRtT o7 TRn 7tAn SK 1rS6BlTo;o3
TVg oT oe DnTTnr TS Fnn1 eSAn 1nS1an S7 TRn 
6Sang vRolR tASB7Te TS &TSanrtDan— Sr 
&o7eToTBToS7tao5n6 1S;nrTV t76 B7nA1aSV3
An7Ty— Ln 6oet11rS;ne SK TRn lrntToS7 
SK ^SDe TRrSB0R TRn 1BDaol enlTSrg enno70 
TRoe te t AtFneRoKT eSaBToS7y Ln vt7Te TS 
o7eToTBTn t rn6oeTroDBToS7 SK vSrF DV aS70nr 
;tltToS7e t76 eRSrTnr vSrFo70 6tVey i7 TRoe 
At77nr Rn Dnaon;ne TRtT ^SDe lt7 Dn 1rS;o3
6n6 KSr TRn 1SSrg TRn B7nA1aSVn6 t76 
0rt6BtTo70 en7oSrey IRn7 teFn6 vRnTRnr 
TRn RneoTt7lV SK TRSen voTR ^SDe TS Rt;n 
TRnor RSBre 6nlrnten6 vSBa6 Dn t enroSBe 
1rSDanAg zl­trTRV rn1aon6 TRtT eoAoatr 
AnteBrne Rt6 Dnn7 nKKnlTo;naV o7TrS6Bln6 
6Bro70 TRn b•Huey
zl­trTRVqe Ato7 1Br1Sen KSr lSAo70 TS 
­zX oe TS lSaanlT eo07tTBrne KSr TRn 1nTo3
ToS7 Rn 7nn6e TS 0nT S7 TRn DtaaST te t7 
i76n1n76n7T o7 xn77eVa;t7oty i7 TRn 7n4T 
Knv vnnFeg eTB6n7Te voaa Dn tDan TS eo07 1n3
ToToS7e tT TtDane tT ­zX Sr xoTTg DBT S7aV 
oK TRnV trn rneo6n7Te SK 9aan0Rn7V ­SB7TVy 
i7 Hu eTtTne TRoe 1rSlnee oe taASeT tBTSAt3
Tolg DBT o7 xn77eVa;t7ot Huguuu eo07tTBrne 
trn 7nn6n6 S7 t 1nToToS7g vRoan o7 ­tao3
KSr7ot TRn 7BADnr oe Hmuguuuy zl­trTRVg 
vRSA S7n to6n lSA1trn6 TS 96ato pTn;n73
eS7g Knnae lS7Ko6n7T TRtT Rn voaa 0nT S7 TRn 
DtaaST o7 taa mu eTtTney Ln Dnaon;ne TRtT 1nS3
1an trn eS 6oeetToeKon6 voTR TRn TvS"1trTV 
eVeTnAg TRtT oK Rn lt7 0nT TRn 1nS1an vRS 
vSBa6 Dn TSS t1tTRnTol TS ;STn KSr t 'n3
1BDaolt7 Sr t MnASlrtT TS ;STn KSr RoAg 
Rn Rte t rnteS7tDan lRt7ln SK eBllneey
©ATTENTION
Volkswagen Owners
-SBr 7ntrneTg ASeT lS7;n7on7T tBTRSro5n6 
ltA1Be 6ntanr o7;oTne VSB TS ;oeoTy 
xnreS7tao5n6g nKKnlon7T enr;oln DV ;nTnrt7 
TnlR7olot7ey
SEE THE FUEL EFFICIENT 76 VW LINE UP
PARTS & SERVICE 
OPEN SATURDAYS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE
-8X ­9. 9NN8'M 9 .dI 8' 
XpdM ­9' 9s zlUddfp
AUTHORIZED VW & 
MAZDA DEALER
E*•u Iy ci¦d's- 9wdy 
xissp¦X'ULg 
M8'z8.s 
H,H"b*uu

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976—Page 13
ATO SLIPS BY PRIDE IN IM B-BALL
by Roger Geddes
With over half the intramural basketball 
season over with, the race for those top 
play off spots becomes more and more in­
tense. Last week saw a few major upsets 
and turnarounds as the contenders are 
beginning to play each other and knock 
each other off.
ATO got the big win last week by cool­
ing off previously unbeaten Pride in what 
was probably one of the best games in 
intramurals this year.
Down by as much as ten in the first 
half, ATO connected on a three point 
play by Rick Marrusic and tied the game 
at 28 with six minutes left in the game. 
A basket by O’Mara and successful foul 
shots by Marrusic and Massaro gave ATO 
a five point lead. Pride never caught up the 
rest of the game as ATO emerged a 42-38 
winner. In the event that neither team 
loses again, ATO will take a first place seed 
into the playoffs.
The Orangatangs now have to be taken 
seriously as they have won five straight 
games including a 38-33 win over GSIA 
and a 51-40 win over Pika.
The game against GSIA was of the un­
usual variety as it had to go into overtime 
and GSIA, who started the game with only 
five players, lost two of their players on 
fouls. They had to play the remainder of 
the game with only three players and only 
lost by five points.
Pika started out the week on the right 
side with a 35-33 win over Salt and Pepper 
but turned around and lost to the Oran^a-
The largest number of teams ever are competing in
tangs and to SAE, 44-42, in one of the 
biggest upsets of the season.
A 50 foot lunge shot by Chuck 
McConnell with two seconds left, gave 
Pika the two point win over S&P. Pika was 
ahead through most of the game and led 
33-30 with a few seconds left until 
Witenske was fouled on a driving layup 
that went in. He connected on the point 
to tie the game but McConnell’s dramatic 
shot ended the game.
In SAE’s upset of Pika,baskets by 
Schiffman and Smith gave SAE a five 
point lead with three minutes left in the 
game. Pika’s pressing defense stole the 
ball twice and a basket by D’Angelo cut 
the lead to one. SAE connected on a foul
IM basketball this year...66. Photo by Paul Williams
shot to lead bv two but Pika’s last shot 
with three seconds left failed.
Beta moved up a few knotches in the 
standings scoring 133 points in two big 
wins over PKT, 68-26, and SAE, 65-31. 
Dave Cacciamani was high scorer in both 
games with 16 and 18 points respectively. 
Beta, however, still has a tougher schedule 
to face.
Black Heat has done well in the early 
part of their schedule knocking off the 
Celtics, 51-35 but they also have the
tougher part of their schedule coming up.
Two big games this week that will 
affect the standings considerably areATO 
vs. S&P at 8:00 on Wednesday and 
Beta vs. Pika immediately following.
JOT THIS DOWN
WRESTLING — Finals will be held Feb.
16, 17 and 19 in Thistle Hall. 
HANDBALL — Schedules are out. Pick 
them up in the IM office.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS - The “Zoo” 
beat the “Mappers” in the finals by the 
score of 4-1.
CALL POOL — Schedules are out. Games 
will be played at Skibo courtesy of 
Sue Christian.
WATER BASKETBALL - Games started 
Monday.
BRIDGE — Games are underway. Turn in 
scores at IM office.
RIFLE, TABLE TENNIS (singles, doubles) 
Check IM bulletim board for game 
times.
INDIVIDUAL CALL POOL, CO-REC 
BADMINTON, FOUL SHOOTING, CO- 
REC TABLE TENNIS — Entries due 
Tuesday, February 17.
INTRAMURAL NIGHT - Scheduled for 
March 5th.
TOP MAJOR LEAGUE SCORERS
l. White (S&P)21.5
2. Hopkins (Pride)14.8
3. Lefferty (Studs)14.3
4. Sabo (Celtics)14.0
5. Coates (Pride)12.6
6. Chandler (Orang.)12.3
7. Sandberg (PKT)12.0
8. Domenick (Orang.)11.3
9. Cacciamani (BTP)11.2
10. Marrusic (ATO)11.2
MAJOR LEAGUE STANDINGS
W L1. Pride71
2. ATO61
3. Black Heat31
4. Orangatangs52
5. BTP426. S&P327. Pika438. SAE13
9. GSIA15
10. Celtics0311.PKT04
12. Studs07
EXPERIENCE...
"THE BEST TEACHER!"
Plan that next conference with us, and see what 
years of meeting and catering experience can 
mean! From punch and cookies to a gourmet 
dinner... our fine attention to detail deserves a 
perfect grade! Top shelf catering... elegant meet­
ing rooms ... and a knack for gracious hospitality 
have earned us our reputation. For that upcoming 
university function, we're first in a class by our­
selves. You'll see, we've learned our lessons well!
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone 621-7700
Singles: $18-$29 Doubles: $26-$33 
Free Parking For Overnight Guests 
Children Under 16 Years Of Age 
Stay Free In Room With Parents
Get away for the weekend
95*
per day 
plus 10* 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
National’s low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the ski chalet, or wherever. Non-discountable rate avail­able Friday noon to Monday noon. You pay for the gas you use, and return car to renting location. Call for reserva­tions today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444 
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
‘Rate subject to change without notice.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976TARTANS COME ALIVE!
xtT Itr6 rn1atln6 KSBa TrSBDan6 xtBa LtAnraV t76 e1trFn6 TRn strTt7e TS TRn ant6y
An elated Coach Dave Maloney said 
after the game, “Everything went together 
today, both offensively and defensively. 
We practiced hard this week and it paid 
off.” CMU was forced to practice with 
only nine players due to injuries to Dennis 
Derringer and Bruce Duncan.
Much credit has to be given to Assistant 
Coach Phil Wimer, who handles most of 
the defensive techniques. CMU, for the 
first time this year, played a tough man-to- 
man defense that was biting (he numbers 
off lohn Carroll’s jersies for the entire
play. Then Dane Wukich connected on two 
20 foot jumpers in rapid succession to 
balloon the lead to seven.
Everyone got into the act as Ward, 
Wukich, DeaBrunzzo, and Larry DiCicco 
all scored with precision and Costa gobbled 
up rebounds at both ends. Scrappy defense 
resulted in easy CMl/ scores. DiCicco’s 
shot at the buzzer gave the Tartans a 
49-32 lead at the intermission.
The second half was all Carnegie-Mellon 
as they picked up where they left the open­
ing stanza off. Tremendous shooting
FIRST TIME IN 16 YEARS T6 BREAK 100
­zi[ lrBeRn6 [SR7 ­trrSaa buE"Pu S7 ptTBr6tVy Mt;n ztaS7nV )aSvnr anKTJg Photos by Courtney Larson 
­zXfp Lnt6 ¦teFnTDtaa ­StlR lSAAn7Tn6 tKTnr TRn 0tAng hd;nrVTRo70 vn7T TS0nTRnr TS6tV DSTR SKKn7eo;naV t76 6nKn7eo;naVyh
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon opened up a tight game 
midway through the first half with the help 
of some unheralded talent and crushed vis­
iting John Carroll with an impressive of­
fensive display that hasn’t occurred for the 
Tartans since Lincoln was in office, 102- 
80.
Three Pittsburgh fire companies were 
needed to extinguish the flames caused by 
CMU’s torrid scoring blaze. Tech shot an 
unbelievable 57% from the field, hitting 
on 40 of 69 attempts.
Congratulations and superlatives were 
flowing freely in the jubilent CMU locker 
rooms. Deservedly so, much of the praise 
was being directed towards Pat Ward and 
Ralph DeaBrunzzo.
Ward, a 6-2 sophmore sub from Beaver, 
Pa., came off the bench to replace the foul- 
troubled Paul Hamerly and proceeded to 
spark the Tartans to the lead. The quiet 
hustler, who at times this season seemed to 
be no offensive threat, scored nine key first 
half points to propel CMU to an advantage 
that they would never relinquish. He 
played such tight defense that it seemed 
like John Carroll only had four players at 
the offensive end.
DeaBrunzzo, the oldest player on the 
team at 24 years of age, went on a scoring 
binge that he hasn’t shown much of this 
season and burned the invaders for 20 
points. More important, he displayed the 
skills needed for an excellent point guard 
as he led the CMU fast break which before 
had been nonexistant to many easy buck­
ets and passed to the open man on set 
patterns to the tune of 14 assists.
game. The Tartans drew several charging 
fouls, thwarted many attempted moves to 
the hoop, and forced 24 turnovers.
In the early going, the contest was close 
with neither team able to grab more than 
a two point lead. The first ten minutes 
saw 15 lead changes and eight tie scores. 
CMU was kept in the game by the talented 
Marty Costa, who led all scores for the 
afternoon with 22.
It looked as though CMU might be in 
trouble when Hamerly went to the bench 
with his third personal at the 13:18 mark. 
But Ward came in to do his heroics and the 
Tartans were off and running.
Ward got the Tartans rolling on a twist­
ing layup and a free throw for a three point
extended Tartan leads to as many as 33 
points.
Much of the bulge was built on the pat­
ented slashing drives of DiCicco and the 
soft touches of Costa, Wukich, and 
DeaBrunzzo, DiCicco ended the encounter 
with 21 points and Wukich with 18.
Midway through the final 20 minutes, 
both teams started to substitute freely. 
The only thing in doubt was whether CMU 
would hit 100 or not. Maloney was able to 
give everyone plenty of playing time, 
especially reserves like Winston Thomas 
and Dave Schwartz.
The tension mounted as the final horn 
approached. The sparse crowd cheered 
every CMU hoop as if it were for the 
NCAA championship. Bill Boykins, the 
smallest man on the team, ended the 
suspense when he canned a 17 foot jump 
shot with 38 ticks left on the clock to 
reach the century mark.
An oddity of the game was that every 
player from both teams entered the scoring 
column.
This unquestionably was Carnegie-Mel-
lon’s finest performance of the season. It 
was delightful for the few on hand at 
Skibo Gym to watch CMU completely 
dominate the third place team in the Presi­
dent’s Athlectic Conference. It is, in this 
reporter’s opinion, a shame that more of 
the campus community doesn’t support 
the team. Although their talents don’t 
rival a UCLA or maybe even a Hiram, CMU 
has played highly competitive and exciting 
basketball every time at home this season.
Carnegie-Mellon (3-11 overall and 3-6 in 
conference play) travels to Thiel tomorrow 
night and is home Saturday afternoon at 
3:00 p.m. to face Case Western Reserve.
BETHANY SLIPS BY CMU 75-74
by Bob Firm
Carnegie-Mellon broke out of last 
week’s poor shooting streak that was cold­
er than the Pittsburgh weather but still 
dropped a heartbreaking 75-74 decision to 
Bethany.
Coach Dave Maloney’s Tartans shot an 
excellent 48% from the field as compared 
to last week’s low and mid 30% perfor­
mances. However, the Bisons were equal to 
the task connecting at a 47% clip.
The first half was a high scoring affair as 
both teams burned the nets at a better than 
50% rate. Bethany used extremely prolific 
foul shooting (17 for 18) to build up a 
49-30 halftime lead.
Tartan defense was poor during the first 
half. CMU had several breakdowns that led 
to Bison scores and committed many per­
sonal fouls to allow the West Virginia 
school numerous opportunities to cash in 
at the charity stripe.
Again, as they have done all season long, 
the Tartans battled back from adversity 
and a 14 point deficit in the second half to 
make the game closely contested until the 
final buzzer.
CMU outgoaled the hosts 28-25, but 
Bethany shot a Rick Barry percentage of 
89% from the free throw line to provide
Maybe because she’ll like you better for it. 
Send it to your special Valentine today. She’ll get 
the message. Your FTD Florist will send your 
LoveBundle™ almost anywhere. Order Early!¡mw*
** ‘As an independent 
businessman, each FTD Member 
Florist sets his own prices, 1
Usually available 
for less than
*. R80ch 2.: 0-d :2.ch h8$,:h8 FTD Fl2$*s: w0y!
i< Florists' Transworld Delivery•V, —* A . A . I
a better reason to send an FTD LoveBundle?

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976-Page 15
the winning margin.
CMU’s big men dominated the action 
for the Tartans as they scored at will and 
dominated the backboards. Marty Costa, 
a 6-6 transfer from Penn State, did every­
thing except bring the balls on the court 
for warmups. The idol of “Beak’s Boos­
ters” poured in 22 points and coralled 17 
caroms. Paul Hamerly pounded the Bisons 
for 19 inside markers.
Dane Wukich and Larry DiCicco also hit 
double figures for the Tartans with 11 and
10 points. DiCicco, who had 34 points in 
CMU’s double overtime victory over Beth­
any earlier in the season, fouled out with 
about nine minutes left in the game. The 
Tartans missed his experience and scoring 
abilities late in the contest.
Bethany, who gained their first confer­
ence win, was paced by Breisinger’s game 
high 23 points, Thompson’s 18 points, and 
Haus’ 14 points.
CMU’s record dropped to a deceiving 2-
11 overall and 2-6 in conference play.
V.BALL CLUB WINS
by Mike Pochan
The Carnegie-Mellon Volleyball Club, 
in its inaugural year as a Student Govern- 
ment-funded club sport, captured its first 
trophy Sunday February 1st at the Gannon 
Invitational Tournament in Erie, Pennsyl­
vania.
The Volleyball club, under the direction 
of Coach Bob Dax, boasted a 7-3 recQrd in 
round-robin play in the tournament, then 
proceeded to crush Slippery Rock State
College in the final match, 15-9 and 15-8. 
Other schools participating in the tourna­
ment were Gannon College, Edinboro State 
College, Allegheny College, Slippery Rock 
and Alliance.
The intercollegiate volleyball season 
will consist of weekly tournaments held at 
Western Pennyslvania colleges that field 
club volleyball teams. Upcoming tourna­
ments are at Alliance, Penn State New Ken­
sington, Pitt, Edinboro, Allegheny and 
CMU (April 4th).
v
,.Æ*Èli±
DiCicco's 21 points helped make it happen.
JOHN CARROLL
FGFTRBSCMU
FGFTRBSRehmer105
Canon724
Hamerly101Murphy424
DeaBrunzzo685Skerl301
DiCicco939Cyras426
Wukich744Wallis143
Costa9411Hill201
Ward413Lytle203
Boykins201McDonough202
Thomas21*2English201
Schwartz011Markushic324
Kehoe303
by L.S.D.C.
Two weeks ago the Sweepstakes Com­
mittee held an election to fill the post of 
safety inspector. The vacancy was created 
when the former safety inspector, Charles 
Campbell of SN, failed to return to school 
this semester and therefore could not con­
tinue his term.
The election itself was a rather unusual 
one for Sweepstakes in that there were 
three candidates for the position. Rarely 
is there ever more than one person inter­
ested in taking a position in Sweepstakes, 
but this time Jim Belawski of BTP, Lou 
Conley of the C.I.A., and Jim Plymyer of 
PKA all wanted the job. Belawski is a se­
nior chemistry student, Conley a graduate 
mechanical engineer, and Plymyer a junior 
electrical engineering major. The voting
was rather straightforward and uncontro- 
versial with Jim Belawski winning on the 
first ballot.
Mr. Belawski indicated that he would 
be a “tough” inspector and would strictly 
enforce the safety rules. This would be a 
rather refreshing change after a year and a 
half of rather lackadaisical safety inspec­
tors. Considering the safety antics of last 
spring and the apparent lack of interest 
last semester of former safety inspectors, 
Sweepstakes, now more than ever, needs a 
reawakening of safety consciousness. The 
tragic event of 1971 has almost been for­
gotten, but as long as there is buggy racing 
on this campus that painful experience 
must never be forgotten. Mr. Belawski now 
has the power to insure that real safety in 
buggy racing is not forgotten for at least 
one more year. It is hoped that he uses that 
power both often and wisely.
OPENINGS 
NOW AVAILABLE! in the 
ARMY ROTC
2 YEAR PROGRAM for ACADEMIC
SOPHOMORES
JUNIORS AND SENIORS
LEARN 
WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD
™ O
The Basic and Advanced Camp 
gives you valuable leadership ex­
perience
ROTC gives you an opportunity to 
serve... in your own way... at your 
own speed... in your own time...
QUALIFICATIONS
1. Have 4 semesters remaining
(including Graduate School)
2. Have a "C" average or better
3. Be in good physical condition
4. Be willing to spend a minimum of 3 months of active 
duty
TRAINING
1. Attend a 6 week Basic Camp (all expenses paid) the 
Summer of your Sophomore year. (Plus earn $500.00)
2. Take ROTC your Junior Year (earn $100.00 a month)
3. Attend Advanced Camp (all expenses paid) the Summer 
of your Junior Year. (Plus earn $500.00)
4. Take ROTC your Senior Year (earn $100.00 a month)
5. Graduate with a degree and a commission
FOR INFORMATION CONTACT:
MAJ John P. Carey 
Gym 203Phone: 621-2600 X281/282
?Juniors and Seniors who will be 
attending Graduate School

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-February 10, 1976
ex PLAY A FAILURE VOMEN DROP TWO
Photo by Paul Williams 
xro6n t76 xRo Gt11t sRnTt lSA1nTo70 o7 iz DteFnTDtaa o7 TRn pFoDS UVAy xro6n vS7 mE",,ySWIM TEAM HURTING P.A.C. RECORD 1-3
by Diane Maddock
CMU’s Swim Team traveled through the 
hills of West Virginia to Bethany College. 
Bethany, which ranked second in the 
PAC’s last year, posed tough competition 
for the almost rookie team of CMU. The 
pace of the meet was plagued from the 
beginning with the loss of the 400 medley 
relay by five yards. The final score of 
64-49 was a disappointment to the swim­
mers who put forth an all out effort.
200 Free-2nd place Dave Bankart 
50 Free-2nd place Frank Dittman, 3rd
place Pete Dickey 
[M Medley-1 st place Joe Dickey, 2nd place
Harry Coleman 
Diving-2nd place Tony Carrington, 3rd
place Brian Kay 
200 Fly-1st place Harry Coleman 
100 Free- 3rd place Jeff Bland 
200 Backstroke-1st place Joe Dickey,
3rd place Wilson Boyce 
500 Free-2nd place John Rossi, 3rd place 
Dave Bankart 
200 Breaststroke-3rd place Bob Gierard
200 Breaststroke-3rd place Bob Gierard
The meet was almost determined by the 
last event. The team of the 400 relay dis­
played a valiant effort and captured a near 
record breaking time. On Tuesday the
team travels to Allegheny.
Saturday the final meet of the season 
against Case Western Reserve promises to 
be an exciting meet.
by Gordon Morrison
The CMU Women’s basketball team lost 
both games this week. On Thursday, CMU 
lost to the Pitt “J.V.” team by a score of 
90-21. Pitt’s team consisted of the var­
sity team reshuffled to get the varsity 
substitutes more playing time as well as 
keeping their varsity starters sharp between 
games. Everyone on the.Pitt team is on a 
basketball scholarship. The game started 
out well with Elly Zimmerman outjumping 
the center of Pitt. However, Pitt dominated 
the rebounding with their six foot six 
inch center and six foot one inch forward. 
Many of CMU’s shots were blocked until 
the CMU players moved outside their 
effective shooting range and had to change 
the shots, so they would not get blocked. 
Because of this, the CMU women had their 
worst shooting night of the season. Barb 
Owens led CMU with 9 points and 15 re­
bounds.
The Saturday game with Geneva was a 
more evenly matched game, despite the 
presence of a six foot center that had 
20 points.. Geneva won the game 66-46 
but it was close until three minutes were 
left in the game. The turning point of the 
game seemed to be early in the second 
half with Geneva in foul trouble. Geneva 
had several starters, including their center, 
with three fouls and only one of the CMU 
players with as many as two. Over the next 
five minutes, CMU had three players with 
four fouls. With three minutes left, two of 
the starters and the leading scorers for 
CMU, were on the bench after fouling out. 
Elly Zimmerman led CMU with 15 points, 
while Karen Asinger had 12 and Barb 
Owens had 10. Barb and Elly had 14 and
11 rebounds respectively, while Mary 
Patrick had 8 and Ingrid Goedicke, despite 
the position she plays (guard), had 6 re­
bounds.
IM ALL-STARS RELEASED
by Mike Pochan
The belated and berated IM soccer and 
volleyball All-Stars were released last week 
from the Department of Intramural Athle­
tics.
Dan Dabby (Coaches All-Stars) was vot­
ed MVP in soccer with Bob Dax (Coaches 
All-Stars) winning MVP in six-man volley­
ball.
In soccer, the first team consisted of 
forwards: Dan Dabby, Ilker Baybars
(TTT), and Sony (TTT); fullbacks: A1 
Young (All-Stars) and A1 Koblin (All- 
Stars); and goalie Matt Fleig (ATO). Sec­
ond team honors went to forwards: Rob
and Jay Duquette (ATO); full backs: Mike 
Tarmo (TTT) and Jeff Ball (SAE); and 
goalie Bob Dax (All-Stars).
In volleyball, the first team featured 
spikers: Bob Dax (All-Stars), Mike Pochan 
(SAE), Larry Pasternak (SAE), and Bruce 
Whiting (All-Stars); and setters: Bob Dax 
(All-Stars) and Tom Veltri (All-Stars). The 
second team had spikers: Frank Sacco 
(All-Stars), Chung Koh (GSIA), Andy 
Bucholter (Feva), and Dirk Kalp (All- 
Stars); and setters: Mike Pochan (SAE) and 
Phil Karleton (Feva).
Ilker Baybars (TTT) finished second in 
soccer MVP balloting with Tom Veltri 
(All-Stars) and Mike Pochan (SAE) tieing
Meyer (SAE), Murray Leety (All-Stars), for second-place volleyball MVP.FEBRUARY THURSDAY
AFTERNOON LUNCHEONFORUMS
12
Mass Transit - Now or Ever?
Martin Wohl, 
CMU Transportation Research Institute
p1S7eSrn6 DV ­zX ­tA1Be xrS0rtA xat77o70
A New Profession for College Graduates!
“Development Specialist”
Summer Program: June 14-September 3,1976 
Fall Program: September 27-December 17,1976
If you are interested in applying the knowledge you 
have acquired in your four years of college to 
community service . . . consider a career in 
development.
Adelphi is the first university to provide advanced 
training to college graduates for a career in this steadily 
growing field.
A career in development offers you multiple 
opportunities to use your diverse talents and knowledge 
in a professional capacity and gives you the opportunity 
to make a contribution to your community in 
association with top civic, cultural and industrial 
leaders.
A representative will be on campus for group 
presentations and individual interviews on :
NnDrBtrV 19
Check with the placement office for details as to place 
and time.
For a free brochure about this career opporutnity 
mail the coupon below.
Bring Lunch And A Friend 
__1?:30 Whftrmtt Rnnm
UâklFPHONE
CITV STATE7 IP
? SUMMER 1»76 ? FALL 1t7*
a ¦ 1 ¦ • IN COOPERATION WITH A _| THE NATIONAL CENTER 
f l^lQirVll FOR DEVELOPMENT 
nUW 11^1 II TRAINING
9MdcxLi X.iwd'pis- “xb P
Mail to:
Mrs Laurel Isaacs 
Development Specialist Program 
University College 
Oivsion of Special Programs 
Adelphi University 
Garden City, N.Y. 11530
