VOL. 50—No. 10 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., DEC. 4, 1956
Student CongressMBS ALL-SCHOOL
Queen Caroletta Yalencourt (seated) holds court with the three 
Thistle princesses, Diane Warden, Lynn Tryon, and Julie Nash.
956 Thistle Queen 
Qhosen By Cor die
All you regular Rege Cordic listeners found a special attraction 
on this mornings program between 7:30 and 8:00. At that time the 
1956 Thistle Queen Caroletta Valencourt was heard in a recorded 
interview with Rege, the man who selected her from all the photo­
graphs of pretty candidates elect­
ed by various sororities and dorm 
towers.
Caroletta, a secretarial major 
from Pittsburgh, is popular as 
well as pretty, being active in 
CSropus organizations and a mem­
ber of Kappa Alpha Theta. In ad­
dition to her radio interview 
Caroletta has received much 
newspaper publicity. Pictures of
Rege Cordic
Thistle Queen Judge
her and her court will, appear in 
the Pittsburgh papers this Tues-
%The three girls chosen by Rege 
Cordic as the queen’s attendents 
have also attracted much publi­
city. They will be featured along 
With the queen in this year’s 
Thistle.
Julie Nash, from Buffalo, New 
York, is a painting and design 
major and president of Kappa 
^pha Theta. She is one the £taff of 
iiiè “Scot” and a member of Pi 
Delta Epsilon, the journalism 
honorary. Also active in campus 
activities is Diane Warden. She is 
enrolled in the clothing and tex­
tiles department, and is a member 
of the Tennis Club, Tarquans and 
is currently doing publicity work 
for Scotch ‘n’ Soda. The third at­
tendant is Lynn Tryon, a business 
economics major and candidate of 
I*lta Gamma sorority.
A
UMOC Contest
Alpha Phi Omega will 
sponsor Its annual Ugliest 
Man On Campus contest dur­
ing the week of January 14, 
1956. Any male student of 
Carnegie Tech who wishes to 
enter is requested to submit a 
5x7 glossy photograph of 
himself, along with his name 
and the name of the sponsor­
ing organization, if any, to the 
dean of men’s office by Wed­
nesday, December 19.
There will be a Student 
Congress meeting tomorrow at 
4:30 in Room 100 P.H. Discus­
sion will be on the Executive 
Council’s proposals for a Tech 
activities fee. All students are 
urged to attend.
Hungary Receives 
Carnegie Tech’s 
Moral Assistance
College students all over the 
country have been aroused by 
the plight of a nation at war. At 
aa special meeting on November 
19 the Carnegie Tech Student 
Congress joined in the ranks to 
give aid to Hungary. A commit­
tee was set up to solicit iunds for 
the Hungarian college and univer­
sity students who were driven 
from their homeland by the ter­
rors of revolution.
Last reports state that there are 
over 1200 of these students in 
Austria, and they need help. Their 
departure from home was so hur­
ried, that they came away with 
nothing but the clothes they were 
wearing on their backs. Now 
they need food, clothing, and text 
books to continue their school 
work. The only way that these 
unfortunate students will receive 
the things they need is through 
contributions.
WUS to Administer Funds
Even though it is school policy 
to have only one fund-raising 
drive a year, the Student Congress 
felt it necessary to institute this 
drive for Hungarian Relief. With 
the assurance that the funds col­
lected at Carnegie Tech will go 
directly to these Hungarian stu­
ff- [continued on page 81
Student Theater Guild Offers 
Low Price Tickets To Techites
To acquaint students with the “Living Theatre,” the Student 
Theatre Guild, a subscription plan which,,offers six hit plays at a 
below-minimum $6.00 to students, has been inaugurated by the 
Theatre Guild-American Theatre Society and the Council of the
?Living Theatre, in cooperation 
with the Nixon Theater.
Members of the Student Guild 
will have the opportunity to en­
joy six Broadway hits starring 
outstanding theatrical personalities 
such as Judith Anderson. Alfred 
Lunt and Lynn Fontanne, Ruth 
Chatterton, Thomas Gomez. Ru^h 
Gordon, Joan Bennett, Vivian 
Blaine, and Romney Brent.
The only other city in the United 
States to. have it is New York, 
where the plan originated. Through 
this program, Pittsburgh students 
will be able to subscribe to one 
of the most impressive series in 
the history of the Theatre Guild 
—American Theatre Society. The 
plan here in Pittsburgh has been 
developed as part of the city’s 
renaissance program.
Membership in the Student 
[continued on page 8J
H&SS Sponsors 
Lecture On Germa 
By Doctor Nocli
Dr-. Ernst Erich Noth, noted 
author, lecturer, and professor of 
comparative literature at the Uni­
versity of Oklahoma, will deliver 
a lecture on |Germany in the 
school of industi'ial administration 
auditorium on Thursday, Decem­
ber 13, at 8 p.m. His topic will be 
“Germany Between East and 
West: Political and Literary
Trends.”
Dr. Noth, editor of Books 
Abroad, a literary quarterly that 
specializes in brief reviews of 
books published outside the United 
States, is the author of twelve 
books in German, French, and 
English and a contributor to Ger­
man, French, and American peri­
odicals.
Born in Berlin, and educated 
in Germany and France, Dr. 
Noth spends most of his summers 
in Europe studying the literary 
and political scene. His work is 
made possible by grants from the 
Rockefeller Foundation.
The lecture, free to the public, 
is sponsored by the department of 
modern languages and the de­
partment of history.
Tartan Reporters
There will be a meeting of 
all TARTAN reporters this 
Friday at 7:00 at the Union. 
Anyone interested in working 
on any part of the TARTAN 
is urged to attend. Those who 
cannot attend please contact 
Ann Forest—MU. 2-8877.
PARTY THURSDAY
Profits For Scholarship Fund
Students, faculty, and Tech friends are getting a jam-packed eve­
ning of entertainment at the Playhouse this Thursday night. To finance 
the scholarships which it awards at Carnival. Mortar Board has ar­
ranged an all-school theater party at which the Tech community will
Rabbi Fischel Will 
Speak At Annual 
Clianukah Assembl
The annual Chanukah Assem­
bly, jointly sponsored by the 
B’nai B’rith Hillel Foundation 
and the Committee on Religious 
Activities, will be held on Tues­
day, December 11, at 11:30 in 
the Fine Arts Little Theater. The 
service will be an all-school as­
sembly and everyone is invited 
and urged to attend.
Rabbi Henry A. Fischel, direc­
tor of the Pittsburgh Hillei 
Foundation, will be the featured 
guest of the program. He is a 
former director of the University 
of Alabama Hillel Foundation, 
and was also a rabbi in Tuscaloosa 
and a professor at the university 
He,has also published many books 
which include: Commentary on 
the First Macabees, Prophet and 
Martyr—A Study in Hellenistic 
Religion, and A Brief History of 
Bible Commentary.
Full Holiday Explanation
The Chanukah holiday com­
memorates the first wars against 
religious oppression which began 
about 173 BC, and the woro 
“Chanukah” means “rededica­
tion.” The assembly will show the 
days in which the holiday mani­
fests itself and will also be a 
rededication to the religious prin­
ciples of freedom, understanding, 
and harmony which we hold on 
our campus. Students from all 
Tech departments will take part 
in the assembly and it will be 
divided into four facets.
Chanukah in Literature will be 
characterized by poems and scrip-
Or. Henry A. Fischel
Assembly Speaker
ture readings of the Macabees. 
Musical selections from the world 
of Yiddish Eastern European 
Jewry, Modern Palestine and Is­
rael, Modern American, and Class­
ical Hebrew, as well as folk dance 
selections will reveal dynamically. 
Chanukah in Music. Rabbi Fisch- 
el’s address will discuss Chanukah 
in History and he will also give 
[Continued on Page 8]
not only see that suspenseful 
drama. “The Desperate Hours,” 
but will have the unusual exper­
ience of watching Tech faculty 
members perform at intermission.
Among the cast ot thousands 
are Dean Martha Foy, Miss Al­
berta Dodson, Dr. Robert Schwarz 
and Dr. Norman Dawes.
Theater party tickets w ill 
be on salt in Skibo from 11:30 
to 1:30 tomorrow and Thurs­
day. Those left will be sold at 
the door.
An innovation in all-school 
events, the theater party is de­
signed to bring together members 
of the Tech community —- resi­
dents, commutors, night school 
students, faculty, and administra­
tion—for a truly enjoyable eve­
ning at a nominal cost. Included 
in the $1.75, a minimum for thea­
ter tickets, is not only the play, 
which received excellent reviews 
from the critics, and the faculty 
entertainment, but a pass to the 
Playhouse restaurant, normally 
closed to the public.
Bridges Banal 
To make an evening of it. play­
goers may want to get up a party 
to eat dinner in the restaurant, 
enjoy the drama and the inter­
mission entertainment, and close 
the evening with drinks in the 
[Cant'inued on Page 8J
Two Psychology 
Lectures Remain 
In Current Series
The two final talks in a series 
of four psychology lectures will 
be presented by Mr. D. B. Trow, 
of the Industrial Administration 
School and Dr. L. W. Gregg, of 
the psychology department.
“Experiments on Organizations” 
is the topic of Mr. Trow’s talk this 
Thursday, December 6, at 3:39 
p.m. in the S.I.A. auditorium. He 
will discuss the research being 
done at Tech and o\her schools 
concerning phychological elements 
that are common in different or­
ganizations, such as United States 
Steel and fraternity chapters, and 
will point out that this type of re­
search is on the increase and that 
there are many opportunities in 
this field.
Th® last of the talks, to be given 
by Dr. Gregg on Monday, Decem­
ber 10, is entitled “Electro-Phy­
siological Techniques.” He will 
explain what happens in the hu­
man body when there are outside 
movements, his discussion will 
also consist of his recent findings 
of the measurement of the occur­
rences in the body — such as 
brain waves and muscle action.
Mr. Trow was graduated from 
the University of Michigan with 
B.S. degree in social psychology. 
At Tech, he teaches Human Rela- 
I tions in Industry. Dr. Gregg re- 
I ceived his B.S. degree from 
Northwestern University, his M.S. 
and Ph.D. from the University of 
Wisconsin. He did some research 
j work at Virginia Polytechnic in- 
; stitute. He is an experimental, 
rather than social, psychologist.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 4, 1956
QuenCa Everything looks bright with 
your Chesterfield alight! Cheer up 
every smoking moment with more 
real flavor, more real enjoyment.
Smite, Mend... with the smoothest- 
tasting smoke today, packed more 
smoothly by ACCU• RAY!
like your pleasure big?...
I Smoke for real. • . smoke Chesterfield I
Richard Oden: An All Around 
Teehite In Every Possible Way
Editor’s note: This is the fourth in a TARTAN series of birdcage 
bottoms.
When he descends from his ivory tower (otherwise known as the 
fourth floor of Fine Arts), Dick Oden is hailed and assailed from every
direction on campus. The reason# 
for his current popularity (Web­
ster might define it as “notoriety”) 
is the latest issue of the Great 
Scot, sold out before Thanksgiv­
ing.
Even before the appearance of 
the humor magazine, however, 
Dick was well-known and liked 
by people from every department 
and class. This might be attrib­
uted to his delightfully eccentric 
personality, which may at one 
time find expression under a table 
at Webster Hall and another time 
on a bicycle trip across the nation 
with a dry-humored fraternity 
brother (see Tartan, October 30).
Math Instructor
A talented painting and design 
major with a genius for mathe­
matics and physics, he is unusual­
ly broad in his activities. His ar­
tistic leanings drew him to the 
art and copy stars of the Scot. As
BMOC
Editor of the humor magazine, 
Dick plays an active part in Pi 
Delta Epsilon, the journalism hon­
orary.
Dick has by no means limited 
himself to art and journalism, 
however. Currently he is presi­
dent of Beta Sigma Rho fratern­
ity, and last year he taught math­
ematics at Yeshiva (secondary 
school) with some of his fratern­
ity brothers. He attends Film Arts, 
and, not to be outdone by the
White Friars Club 
Was The Original 
CAT Drama Group
By Carl Arendt
Back in the days when unwise 
young ladies found themselves in 
an “interesting condition” and the 
mandolin club was the bulwark 
of Tech extracurricular activities, 
some non-apathetic members of 
the Inventor’s Club got the urge 
to produce something besides kil­
owatts.
And, by golly, they did! Calling 
themselves the “White Friars”, 
this fearless band of pioneers 
directed and produced two hours 
of reasonable wholesome frolic 
called “All in a Dormitory”, 
which stunned the student body 
at the Spring Carnival of 1908.
These fearless actors can still 
be seen in the 1910 Thistle, with 
the light of dedication shining 
through their eyes. History, un­
fortunately, has not left us the 
names of any of the smash tunes 
included in the show, nor has it 
given any evidence to support the 
rumor that the title was originally 
prefaced with the three words, 
“She gave her . . .”
Acclaimed at Nixon
The idea mushroomed, and 
even the stalwart Woodlawn Cot­
tage Club flocked to help with the 
1909 production, “His Highness 
the Chef.”
After this nothing could stop 
them. In 1910 a naughty caper 
called “Miss Mistaken” was pre­
sented at the Alvin Theatre. Only 
World War I could have brought 
an end to these exciting theatrical 
ventures here at Carnegie, and 
indeed it did, in 1913.
Strange as it may seem, a de­
scendant of the “White Friars”, 
called the Scotch ’n’ Soda Club, 
still exists today.
professionals, is in the process of 
making a movie himself with 
some of his classmates.
A campus leader to be certain, 
Dick is, nevertheless, not the or­
dinary “Teehite.” After all, what 
other leader is a legitimate mar­
quis ... or chooses persimmon 
for his favorite color?
Senior Music Major Collects, 
Directs Student Dance Band
In the past, when Carnegie Tech hired a well known professional 
band for an all-school dance, one question seemed destined to be asked. 
Why does Tech, with one of the finest music departments in the coun­
try, overlook its own talent in favor of a 
swer has been, of course, that 
organized group of Tech musi­
cians has existed.
Year’s Activities 
Being Planned 
By Dorm Council
Under a revised constitution, 
Men’s Dorm Council this year is 
working with fourteen members, 
including the residents from each 
of the nine dormitories, a repre­
sentative from Claymore Clan, 
the men’s dorm honorary, a rep­
resentative from the snack bar at 
Donner Hall, and the president, 
vice-president, and property cus­
todian who are members from the 
previous year.
Among their proposals for this 
year is the entering of a buggy 
by the council in the 1957 Carni­
val race. The council is sending 
out questionnaires to the dorm 
men to determine their interest in 
this and to get other suggestions 
for the year. f
Also on the agenda for Dorm 
Council is the purchase of a 
color-television set for Donner 
Hall. Besides this undertaking for 
the present school year, the coun­
cil is continuing its snack bar 
service at Donner, presentation of 
movies at the dorm, and the hold­
ing of parties for dorm students.
This year’s officers are: Ben 
Jones, president; Charles Brock, 
vice-president; Gene Clayton, 
corresponding secretary; Bob 
Reynolds, recording secretary: 
Don Drasler, treasurer; and Ted 
Gaugh, property custodian.
Recognizing the need for 
a group, Art Motycka, senior mu­
sic student, decided to organize 
and direct a band made up en­
tirely of Carnegie Tech students. 
The band, recently organized,, is 
now building up a repertoire of 
numbers and a distinctive person­
ality.
The members of the band, all 
music students, are: leader: Art 
Motycka; sax section: Don Stan- 
ier, Mike Callara, Vince Sanzotti, 
Joe Harris, and Lou Coyner; trom­
bone section; Joe Bishkoff, Dick 
Smith, and Bob Reid; trumpet sec­
tion: Chester DeLuca, Dave Ca- 
mesi, and Bob Redlinger; drums: 
Rodger Ryan; string base: Roger 
Macchiaroli; the piano position is 
still open.
The band has not yet decided 
upon a name and is open for sug­
gestions. At present, arrangements 
for performance by the band are 
to be made through the Carnegie 
Tech department of music. We
? The an-
Austia
Art Motycka %%
Student Band Leader
can now look forward to Tech’s 
first dance featuring its own stu­
dent band.
PHILOSOPHY FOR TODAY
“You ask me why I smile,** he said,
“When H-Bombs hang above my head, 
My car’s a wreck ... my gal has fled 
My money’s gone ... I’m in the red .. • 
Why do I smile? ... You ask me why? 
CHESTERFIELDS! THEY SATISFY!”
A Campus-to-Career Case Histo
Young man on a mountain
If Don Gundersen isn’t in his office, he’s 
probably on a California mountaintop 
making tests and surveys prior to the 
raising of a radio relay tower.
That’s part of Don’s job as an engineer, 
with Pacific Telephone and Telegraph 
Company. With other young engineers 
he makes field studies, then analyzes the 
data and decides where to locate equip­
ment for mobile radio, radio relay and 
point-to-point radio links.
He has to answer a lot of questions, 
such as “How high must the towers be? 
How much will access roads cost? What 
will the control circuits cost? What are
the chances of transmission interfer­
ence?” And those are only a few.
“The answers have to be right, too,” 
says Don. “The recommendations we 
make control hundreds of thousands of 
dollars’ worth of construction. There’s 
no way in the world of ‘burying’ a mistake.
“But I like responsibility, and the 
chance to make real contributions. The 
telephone business is growing so fast, and 
technological improvements are coming 
along in such volume, that opportunities 
to get ahead are excellent. If the business 
looks remarkable today, think 'what it’ll 
be like twenty years from now!”
Donald L. Gundersen graduated from the University 
of Washington in 1949 with a B.S. in Electrical Engi* 
neering. Other interesting career opportunities exist 
in all Bell Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Labo­
ratories, Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. 
Your placement officer can give you more information.
BELL.
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
Don Gundersen fright) discussing characteristics of a transmitting horn on a radio relay tower.

---------------------------------------------------

J. Paul Sheedy* Wasn’t Very Sharp Till 
Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Hirn Gonfidence
'it-------------------------Used Paperbound 
Book Exchange Is 
Started In Library
Do you have some well-read 
pocket books lying around that 
you’d like to trade in? Want to do 
some leisure reading without be- 
in^ hampered by time limitations? 
# S0 you’ll be interested in the 
new addition to Carnegie Tech’s 
Library—Pocket Book Exchange 
in the main reference room.
This shelf contains pocket 
books brought in by faculty and 
students and is being run on the 
honor system. Students choose 
books they are interested in and
take them; there is no signing out.
This is an addition for the en­
joyment of the students and the 
library’s only function is to give 
shelf room. Of course, in ordei 
for a system like this to continue, 
students should either return the 
book or put another one in its 
place.
Operating under this principle 
the collection will be constantly 
changing. Now the collection con­
tains the usual mysteries and 
westerns and also popular novels, 
autobiographers such as the Au­
tobiography of Benjamin Frank­
lin and I’ll Cry Tomorrow and 
classics like the Tale of Two 
Cities.
Tuesday, December 4, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
Wildroot Cream-Oil 
gives you confidenceEASTERN 
RAILROADS
OnC$npQS
withMaxSfralman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy with Cheek " etc.)
Talent Needed
Auditions for the American Pre­
miere of the musical “Love from 
Judy,” adapted - from the book 
Daddy Long Legs,” will be held 
on Sunday, December 2. Local 
talent will be needed to fill lead­
ing roles as well as the singing 
and dancing choruses.
Singers should call the Play­
house box-office, M Ay flower 1- 
4445 for an appointment an ddanc- 
ers should report to the Playhouse 
by 8:00 p.m. for auditions.
“Love from Judy” will be the 
Playhouse’s 200th production and 
is slated to open at the Craft 
Avenue Theater on Saturday, 
February 2.
Tutoring s
From now until the end of the 
semester, Tau Beta Pi will con­
duct weekly help sessions in basic 
freshman and sophomore engi­
neering courses. The classes are 
open to anyone who is interested. 
They will meet according to the 
following schedul.e:
S-221: Friday, 3:30-5:30, Beta 
Theta Pi House
S-223: Tuesday, 4:30, Porter
Hall 211 
S-10Ì: Monday, 3:30, Engineer­
ing Hall 2200 
S-403: Friday, 4:30, Engineering 
Hall A-219
S-404: Thursday, 4:30, Engi­
neering Hall 2200.
Messiah
The seventh straight perform­
ance of the Messiah by the Pitts­
burgh Symphony Orchestra and 
the Mendelssohn Choir will be 
presented Tuesday evening, De­
cember 4.
The appearance of the Mendels­
sohn Choir with the Pittsburgh 
Orchestra Tuesday, December 4, 
at Syria Mosque, is one of two 
programs planned as a joint ven­
ture this season.
Tickets for the performance of 
the “Messiah” at Syria Mosque, 
Tuesday, December 4, are now on 
sale at Kaufmann’s, Gimbels and 
Hornes in Pittsburgh or may be 
purchased at the Syria Mosque 
box office prior to the perform­
ance.
S ’n S Designers
If you are interested in design­
ing scenery, costumes, or lighting 
for the 1957 show, Tuesday, De­
cember 11 is the day; 4:30 is the 
time; Room 106 FA is the pk.ce.
Come and join the ranks of for­
mer S’nS designers, such as Leo 
Meyer, Scenery, Shoot the Works 
(1953) and A1 Leham, costumes, 
Molecule Man (1949). The for­
mer is now doing sets for NBC 
and off-Broadway shows; the lat­
ter is head costume designer for 
ABC.
Pi Mu Epsilon
Pi Mu Epsilon, national mathe­
matical honorary, announces a 
series of monthly lectures on the 
mathematical sciences. The lec­
tures will be held on the second 
Wednesday of every month, at 
4:30 in Room 1112, Engineering 
Hall. The firjt of the series will 
be on Wednesday, December 12, 
with Dr. Richard C. MacCamy, of 
the Carnegie Tech department of 
Mathematics speaking on “Max­
ima and Minima.”
Carmina Burana
John Wabrich, Carnegie Tech 
music student, will have one of 
the three solo roles December 7 
and 9 when the Carnegie Tech 
Chorus and the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony Orchestra present the sec­
ond annual performance of Carol 
Orff’s magnificent “Carmina Bu­
rana” at Syria Mosque. The re­
peat performance has been sched­
uled by popular demand
Tickets for both the Friday eve­
ning and the Sunday afternoon 
performances are now on sale at 
Kaufmann’s, Gimbels and Hornes 
or may be purchased at the Syria 
Mosque box office before either 
concert. The evening performance 
begins at 8:40 p.m.; the afternoon 
concert at 3:10 p.m.
Giving
Organizations planning to give 
parties for or presents to needy 
groups may avoid the usual over­
lapping of benefit programs by 
contacting the Health and Wel­
fare Federation of Pittsburgh; This 
organization has a clearing house 
that dovetails the groups in need 
of gifts, parties, and carol singing 
with those who wrant to give. For 
information, call Mrs. Lillian 
Staggers, CO. 1-6010, extension 
366.
WRCT Broadcasts
Thursday, December 6, at 
8:00 p.m. WRCT will give a 
critique on and broadcast tape 
recordings of tomorrow’s Stu­
dent Congress meeting.
Thistle Pictures
Seniors, Sorority and Fra­
ternity members: Saturday,
December 8 is the last day to 
return picture proofs to Gim­
bels Studio.
SAVt 
25%
on M°ur 
bigIDAY 
Rlp HOME
VO L.
TRAIN 1
IT’S COMFORTABLE!
IT’S FUN!
Alyoure
SAVINGS1
You’ll have more fun when the 
gang's with you ... on the train! 
No worry about traffic delays. 
You can stretch your legs . . . 
visit with friends . . . really relax 
while you speed along your way !
And here’s the way to stretch 
your allowance! Team up with 
two or more friends bound for 
your home town. Travel together 
both ways. On trips of 100 
miles or more, you'll each save 
25% on round-trip coach tickets 
using GROUP ECONOMY 
FARES!*m
Or better still . . . COACH 
PARTY FARES! Round up 25 
or more to travel long-distance 
together on the same homeward 
train. Then return singly or to-^ 
get her and you each save 28% of* 
the regular round-trip fare.
^Except fwr total Irate! tettreen New Y*rk- Washm%tfn andptinls east #/ Lancaster, Pa.
roo ltY nlc(os tl nd)hon cwoin Tup, 
CDh cWtLn nyoJo Wdw Ntio.APP(diw OsciJm
HAPPY TALK
As we all know, conversation is terribly important 
on a date. When lulls in the conversation run longer than 
an hour or two, one’s partner is inclined to grow logy — 
even sullen. What; then, does one do?
If one is wise, one follows the brilliant example of 
Harlow Thurlow.
Harlow Thurlow prepares. That is his simple secret. 
Before the date, he goes to the library and reads all 24 
volumes of the encyclopedia and transcribes their con­
tents on his cuffs. Thus he makes sure that no matter 
what his date’s interests are, he will have ample material 
to keep the conversation alive.
Take, for example, Harlow’s first date with Priscilla 
de Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-eyed broth of a girl, 
lavishly constructed and rosy as the dawn.
Harlow was, as always,,prepared when he called for 
Priscilla, and, as always, he did not start to converse im­
mediately. First he took her to dinner because, as every­
one knows, it is useless to try to make conversation with 
an unfed coed.
So he took her to a fine steak house where he stoked 
her with gobbets of Black Angus and mounds of French 
fries and thickets of escarole and battalions of petits 
fours. Then, at last, dinner was over and the waiter 
9 brought two finger bowls.
“I hope you enjoyed your dinner, my dear,” said 
Harlow, dipping into his finger bowl.
“Oh, it was grandy-dandy!” said Priscilla. “Now let’s 
go someplace for ribs.”
“Later, perhaps,” said Harlow. “But right now, I 
thought we might have a conversation.”
“Oh, goody, goody, two-shoes!” cried Priscilla. “I 
been looking everywhere for a boy who can carry on an 
intelligent conversation.”
“Your search is ended, madam,” said Harlow and 
% pulled back his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a 
likely topic to start the conversation.
"WHY do the girls act so stuck up?” moaned Sheedy. "It’s quilling me the 
way they give me the brush-off.” "It’s your hair, J. Paul,” said one of 
the lads. "It sticks out all over. Confidentially, it stings. You need 
Wildroot Cream-Oil.M So Sheedy picked up a bottle.
Now he has all kinds of confidence, because his hair 
looks healthy and handsome, the way Nature intended.
Neat but n»t greasy. Try Wildroot Cream-Oil in bottles 
or handy tubes. It contains Lanolin, Nature’s finest hait 
and scalp conditioner. Soon all the date« you needle 
be yours for the asking.
? sf 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., Williamsville, N. Y.
Oh, woe! Oh, lackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow 
had painstakingly transcribed such diverse and fasci­
nating information - those cuffs were nothing now but 
a big, blue blur! For Harlow -poor Harlow! - splashing 
around in the finger bowl had gotten his cuffs wet and 
the ink had run and not one word was legible! And 
Harlow broke out in a night-sweat and fell dumb.
“I must say,” said Priscilla after several silent hours, 
“that you are a very dull fellow. I’m leaving.”
With that she flounced away and poor Harlow was 
too crushed to protest. Sadly he sat and sadly lit a 
cigarette.
All of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back. “Was 
that,” she asked, “a Philip Morris you just lit?”
“Yes,” said Harlow.
“Then you are not a dull fellow!” she cried and sprang 
into his lap. “You are bright! Anybody is bright to smoke 
such a perfect doll of a cigarette as today’s rich, tasty 
Philip Morris, which is brimming-full of natural tobacco goodness and fresh unfiltered flavor.... Harlow, tiger, 
wash your cuffs and be my love!”
“Okay," said Harlow, and did, and was.
©Max Stallman. 1958
The makers of Philip Morris Cigarettes, who bring yon this 
column each week, are very happy for Hmrlow - and for all 
the rest of you who have discovered the true tobacco goodness 
of today*» Philip Morrist

---------------------------------------------------

Fagf 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 4, 1956
Editorial-
Drama Crisis
With history’s finest plays produced by 
the drama department, popular comedies and 
dramas put on by professional actors at the 
Playhouse, and many Broadway hits which 
are touring the nation brought to the Nixon, 
students naturally assume that the plays we 
would like to see will eventually come to 
Pittsburgh, one of 10 key theatrical cities in 
the nation.
What we don’t realize is that to the pro­
ducers, Pittsburgh is sure death for a play.
This year we are fortunate to get six mar­
velous productions with truly outstanding per­
sonalities only because these shows are al­
ready booked in the 19 other cities. If attend­
ance at the Nixon is anything like it was last 
year, it may mean the end of legitimate theater 
in Pittsburgh.
Perhaps this may seem strange to us in 
our theatrically utopian atmosphere, espe­
cially when Pittsburgh is undergoing such a 
fantastic cultural, as well as physical renais­
sance. Nevertheless it is a very real and 
extremely unfortunate situation. To alle­
viate it, a Student Theater Guild is offer­
ing student subscriptions at less than movie 
prices (see page 1). Unquestionably this will 
mean a loss in income for the theater, but the sponsors be­
lieve that the increase in attendance wTill compensate for 
the loss, and renew interest in the theaer.
As well as being a marvelous opportunity to see top actors 
In the best plays of the year, it is an excellent chance for us to 
do something for Pittsburgh. Even those of us who are not 
Pittsburghers have an obligation to the city, whose cultural 
facilities we benefit from for four years. This is an opportunity 
for us to contribute substantially to the advancement of Pitts­
burgh’s renaissance, in a most enjoyable way.
v ^ '¡'
While we’re on the subject of theater, may we remind 
you of the Mortar Board theater party this Thursday (see 
page 1). Here also is an excellent opportunity to enjoy the 
theater at a reasonable price, and it has the added attraction 
of a faculty skit and passes to the Playhouse restaurant.
Mortar Board put a lot of thought into its fund-raising 
campaign this year and came up with the theater party as 
a fun-for-everyone way to raise money for the two scholar­
ships it gives each year. Those who come are promised an 
excellent program.
S.A.M.
ALLOTMENT
OF
ACTIVITIES
AááESóMENT
FUNPá
i xiMio>r f
]ga£
«•
3-
IT’SFU’N! ALS OMECMV CCA CP ALS
QUESTION. Let3 HOLD OUR
ARRACd Cliua cuCsitan ClsiaAyfp
STEfV
Letters—
Fee Controversy Rages
Editor, the Tartan:
It is regrettable that it is necessary, so early in the life of our 
new student government, to roundly condemn their proposal for a 
ten dollar per year student activities assessment. At the outset it 
must be granted that a ten dollar fee can little affect the student’s 
purse when added to tuition and board—providing that the ultimate 
distribution of funds is of benefit to the entire college community. 
Such is not the case with the current proposal.
An estimated $30 thousand per year would be realized from 
this assessment, which the Executive proposes dividing as follows: 
*32 thousand to -the Thistle, $7 thousand to Spring Carnival, $5 thousand 
to Homecoming, $4 thousand to an unspecified dance and $2 thousand 
to the student union fund. “Benefits” to be derived from this distri­
bution would include free Thistles for all and “name” bands at the 
dances.
While there can be no objection to having “name” bands at the
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa Office phone, 
MTJ 2-4557; Managing Editoi, MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis­ing Manager; MU 2-8851 Published weekly during the school year except holidays and examination periods by the students ol Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Managing Editor .......................................................................................... Stephanie MackayExecutive Editor ..,,,.................................................................................. Robert Pussell
Associate Editor ........................................................................................................ Marjo KingAssociate Editor .................................................................................... ............... Richard FoxBiuntM Manager ........................................................ Robert Sorkin
Ktwi Editor - Ann Forest. Sport* Editor—Robert Hoppe, Copy Editor—Edwin Roger?. Photography Editor—John Au&tin, Assistant Business Manager—Harley Bern- taach. Advertising Manager—Bill Mo wry. Assistant Adv. Manager—Richard Gru- 
nauc, Circulation Manager—Alan Hodel, Secretary—Joan Seidel.
Entered u second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh Pa under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
ratev ol pxtwe provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.Member oi the Associated Collegiate Press.fceprc^entid lot cational advertising by National Advertising, me
dances, it is unlikely that all who were assessed 
could or would go to such dances. Imagine 3000 
people showing up for a dance in the gym (or at 
any hotel in the city for that matter)! It seems 
likely moreover that the dance committees would 
be tempted to actually raise the price of admission, 
knowing that a “name” band would draw a crowd 
despite it. The use of public funds for such . a 
purpose smacks of “bread and circus” subsidy.
Another objection to the proposed apportion­
ment is the overwhelming gift for the Thistle. As 
a reward for the staff's consistent mediocrity, they 
are to be granted an inexhaustable fund from which 
they may draw at will to reproduce a watered 
mediocrity. And each of us—even those of us 
who have found that the Thistle is not worth hav­
ing—will be able to have one free! Surely even 
socialism can do better than this.
The final argument however—and this is surely 
the telling one—is that concerning the apportion­
ment of $2 thousand of the estimated revenue to 
the student union fund. Six and three-quarters 
per cent of the assessment will go to the project 
for which students have been shouting (it seems 
only yesterday) so vehemently. The other 93V\ 
per cent will go to nebulous, childish extravagances 
which may excite the senses today but will be 
quickly forgotten in the unpaternalistic world 
awaiting Tech graduates. The disparity is out­
rageously ridiculous.
If a fee be voted, let it all be for the student 
union. This step would assure the administration 
an easier path in securing additional funds from 
outside sources for it would indicate a maturity and 
purposefulness rarely seen in the student body. Ten 
years from now (with one-third of a million dol- 
lected £rom such a fee), let some other Congress 
wrestle with the problem of paternalism. It be­
hooves us to take a stand for maturity and against 
childishness—a stand that will be applauded by 
future Tech students. Free enterprise and moral 
professional attitudes within Tech’s student com­
munity will rest or fall on your representative’s 
vote in Congress Wednesday. Make sure he knows 
your stand!
Sincerely,
William C. Sehall 
Chem. Eng. ’58
* * *
Editor’s note: Unfortunately Mr. Schall’s com­
plete work was too lengthy for publication but the 
general line of reasoning is preserved. In another 
letter received, another champion of the apathy 
contingent said that he had attended one school 
dance and did not intend to attend another, and 
that he had seen better yearbooks from second rate 
high schools.
One of Mr. Schall’s chief points which deserves 
comment is his plea for greater emphasis on aid to 
in the new Union. Pending developments within the 
administration make a long term student fund rais­
ing project for building the union seem unneces­
sary. Also, some students may favor a fee devoted 
to supporting a lasting material product such as the 
union, but many others would derive more pleasure 
in immediate personal benefits of a more transient 
nature, e.g. better bands at dances, better year­
books, etc.
The fee proposal was expected to create a stir, 
and tomorrow’s Congress meeting should be well 
attended by those anxious to ascertain the outcome.
—R.H.R.
Student Congress Letters 
On Hungary Situation
Secretary-General of the United Nations 
United States Delegate to the United Nations 
Hungarian Delegate to the United Nations 
Sir:
In view of the mass slaughter of the Hungarian 
people and the deportation of the Hungarian youth 
by trainloads to Russia, we, the Student Congress 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology, representing 
the entire student body, violently protest this Soviet 
action and ask: How far must the USSR go in their 
annihilation of Hungary before the United Nations 
feels compelled to take positive, forceful action?
The United Nations stands for the self-deter- 
mination of all people. Yet, desiring just that, the 
Hungarian people have been shot down by the tens 
of thousand. Approximately 200,000 soldiers an^j 
5,000 tanks have been unleashed on the men, wom­
en, and children of the Hungarian nation, which, 
largely under the leadership of students, valiantly 
fought back with only rifles and bottles of gasoline. 
Are we not just as guilty as the Soviet aggressors 
when we stand back nodding our heads and agree­
ing with each other that this turn of events is, in­
deed, a very bad thing?
If the United Nations will not take immediate 
action for the sake of the Hungarian people we 
suggest they consider selfish reasons. To quote th&’> 
last word of a Hungarian rebel radio station, “Your 
turn will also come—once we perish.”
Respectfully yours,
Student Congress 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
* * *
November 19, 1956
To: Prime Minister of India
His Excellency Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru ^
We, the Student Congress of Carnegie Institute 
)f Technology, representing our student body, in 
the United States of America, are addressing this 
letter to you as an expression of our grief result­
ing from the ruthless suppression by Soviet mili­
tary might of the efforts of the Hungarian people 
to free themselves from Soviet domination. We are 
especially grieved by the brutality used in dealing 
with Hungarian students who are seeking academic 
freedom for themselves and the right of self-gov­
ernment for their people.
We write in hope that you will use your influ­
ence to help the government of the USSR to see 
the tragedy of this situation. We see in you, Prime 
Minister Nehru, a person who has long shown his 
concern for the recognition of human dignity and 
that you and other world leaders are in ,an ex­
cellent position to mediate in behalf of the Hun­
garian people. We desire desperately that the strug­
gle of these people shall not go unrewarded.
Our letter is not the result of any government 
promoting. Its immediate cause was a message from1# 
the students of the Technical University of Sopren, 
Hungary, addressed to all students of the United 
States and printed in the November edition of the 
Chicago Tribune:
“Dear Friends: We thank you with full 
hearts for the sympathy and support you have 
shown for our fight for freedom against Soviet 
aggression and communist despotism. For the 
sons of the free world it is almost impossible 
to imagine the diabolical world of inquisition r
and torture, or oppression, or murder, or the v‘
lies to which we have been subjected. Help us 
with your petitions, your words, your demon­
strations, your resolutions.”
Knowing of no better way to help these stu­
dents, v/e are sending this letter to request you to 
use both your influence in the United Nations and 
your influence with the USSR to provide for the 
safety and well-being of these brave people. Since 
your record as a humanitarian leaves^ no room to 
question your integrity, we place our implicit trust , 
in you.
Respectfully yours,
Student Congress
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Freshmen Only
Now that you have been confounded with your 
first factor, many of you may feel that you have 
come to the wrong school or'that perhaps you 
should not be in college at all. Our advice to you: ¦ 
Don’t get discouraged yet.
For those students who feel that they have 
worked hard and are still having ‘ difficulty, there 
are a number of agencies on campus that exist pri­
marily to tutor freshman subjects and help with 
time-planning and similar problems. Among them 
are Tau Beta Pi, Phi Tau Gamma and the Bureau 
of Measurement and Guidance.
We strongly suggest that those of you who feel 
that you could be doing better, but don’t know ^ 
quite how, investigate these agencies and call upon 
them for advice and assistance.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 4, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
“Criders” in York, doing window Atfer graduation Jeep plans to 
display work. At Tech the Indus- continue his work in Industrial 
trial Design student has worked Design.
By Stan Zionts
Last Saturday, in an overwhelm­
ing Westminster victory, two top 
Tartans played their last gridiron 
game for Carnegie Tech. Both Tom 
Briner and “Jeep” Myers are 60- 
minute men, without whom Tech 
would have been in really bad 
shape. The two, who have been 
teammates for three years, have 
filled the halfback slots quite well.
Tom Briner 
Tom Briner, who has one year 
i*go until graduation, is ineligible 
next season because he has played
spirited man on the Tartan eleven. 
His intense love of football is evi­
denced by the fact that the 24- 
year-old P&D student is married 
and has four children.
Caring for and supporting a 
large family, working part-tii 
and keeping up his grades in i 
tough painting and design course 
occupies much of Jeep’s time. The 
Tartan co-captain adds to this the 
many hours of football practice 
and the week-end trips which 
keep him away from his family.
The fighting halfback graduated 
from William Penn (York, Pa.)
four years. He is enrolled in archi­
tecture, a five-year program.
Tom is from Bay Village, Ohio, 
and went to Bay Village High 
School where he was a three- 
letter man. For three years the 5-9, 
175-lb. lad held down the full­
back position and in his senior 
year he was converted to an end. 
He also lettered in basketball for 
two years and in baseball for four 
years.
In 1953, Tom started for Tech, 
and played becond team under Ed­
die Miller and Roy DeVries dur­
ing Tech’s 1954 undefeated season. 
For the last two years, the hard- 
driving left halfback has started 
in that position. This year Tom 
has chalked up an outstanding 
record. He ran for a total of 104 
yards in the Johns Hopkins game, 
and scored four of the fourteen 
Scot touchdowns, this season, in 
addition to his impressive defen­
sive work.
A top-ranking scholar, • Tom 
maintains an average 2.9 factor 
and is a Steffan Foundation schol­
arship holder. He spends his spare 
time in intramural athletics and is 
an avid bridge player.
Tom’s after-graduation plans in­
clude graduate school in archi­
tecture.
“Jeep” Myers
Halfback Curvin “Jeep” Myers 
upholds the old axiom that “Good 
things come in small packages.” 
The 5'6" bundle of fire, is the most
yiCEROYS
are Smoother
Tom Briner'Jeep" Meyers
L. Bryant And Olds 
Lead X- Country
Arnie, who lives off campus with 
his wife, Joanne, comes from the 
Los Angeles area. In addition to 
being happily married and main- 
[continued on page 6]
By Tom Beig
The 1956 cross-country squad, coached by Bob Carman, com- 
I piled a 6-2 record and placed second in the annual Tri-State meet. 
I Its success was due mainly to three runners, sophomore Eric Otter- 
I vik and co-captains Larry Bryant and Arnie Olds, who came in
I one, two, three in every win, either* -------------
I in an engineered tie or in the This year Larry won the coveted 
I order mentioned. Tri-State meet and was elected
Larry Bryant most valuable runner by his team
Larry Bryant, Tech’s capable dis- mates and coach. Larry is also a 
I t^ce runner, co-captained this stalwart on the track team, run- I year’s successful harriers. Larry, a ning the two-mile.
I modest, lanky senior, joined the Larry, in addition to his ath- I cross-country team in 1955 and letic abilities, is outstanding schol- I was immediately an outstanding astically and in extra-curricular 
I performer. He won most of the activities. The bespectacled metal- 
I meets that year and was one of lurgist carries a high average, is a 
I the winners in this year’s custom- member of the Metals Club, Delta 
I ary three-way tie for first place. Skull, Varsity V-Club, and the
m ATO fraternity, of which he is 
intra-mural chairman.
I ¦*& ¦ ' . Larry began his running career
¦ ^ ¦ " at Monaca High School, where he1
 was an outstanding student and
president of his class for three 
years.
Arnie Olds
Arnie Olds, when he returned 
from two years’ service in the 
army last January, gave a big 
boost to the cross-country squad. 
He became its co-captain and one 
of the top three winning runners.
Before entering the Army, Arnie 
ran varsity cross - country and 
track every season. Last spring he 
took up where he left off over­
coming the handicap of two years 
of almost no running. The tall, 
lanky senior was elected most val­
uable cross-country runner in 1953, 
and when he was « fall semester 
Austin junior. He placed third in the tri- 
Larry Bryant state meet this fall.
BECAUSE ONLY VICEROY 
HAS 20,000 FILTERS
twice As Many Filters
AS THE OTHER TWO 
LARGEST-SELLING FILTER BRANDS
Austin
Àrnie Olds
COMPARE!
How many filters in your 
filter tip f (Remember 
—the more filters the 
smoother the taste!)
Viceroy fef
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
KEEP ALERT FOR A 
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
pon’t let that "drowsy feel­
ing” cramp your style in class 
... Of when you’re “hitting 
the books'*. Take a NoDoz 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
you’ll be your normal best... 
wide awake . . . alert! You! 
doctor frill tell you—-N0D0? 
Awakeners are safe as coffee, 
keep a pack handy!
*5 TABLETS, Sic ^
Brand B
earn your MASTER S DEGREE
ear nyoneyo uAy
AN EXECUTIVE CAREER in RETAILINGfilter
ClGA«»6Comprehensive nine-month program for A.B. and B.S. 
graduate« 1 emphaal« on executive direction in major 
•tores dovetailed with claw room work. Total pay for 
•tore work $450. Co-ed. Scholarship*. Selective job place­
ment before graduation. Q.l. approved. Next «las», 
September S. 1987. Apply now. Write for Bulletin C.
SCHOOL of RETAILING
N EaXCoyUXTI Au nXTTUVEyRi PMt**r*h 13. Pa.Viceroy’s exclusive filter b mode 
from pure cellulose—soft, snow-white, natural)
OiM Bruwr A WlUiaawoe Tobacco
Briner And Meyers Finish Their 
Illustrious Football Careers Here
High School in 1949, where he was 
a starting left halfback under 
coach Art Purcell. He then played 
a couple of years with the York 
“White Roses,” a semi-pro team 
coached by Eddie Waleski.
During this time he worked at
for the Cornelius Sign Advertising 
Company and other advertising 
companies.
Jeep does quite well scholastic­
ally. He has been on scholarship 
all four years, the first two years 
holding a scholastic scholarship.

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 4, 1956
IM Volleyball Jells; 
SAE, ATO Take Lead
Although the season is just over half-completed, the probable 
league winners are starting to emerge in most cases. Early season 
favorites have upheld their reputations, and underdogs have re­
mained so. ? ~
SAE and the Physics grads Will
make the Kiltie League, and the 
Grad Iggles and ATO “A” look 
like Tartan League shoo-ins. The 
Skibo League has TX and AIEE 
leading, while the Plaid League 
has only one clearcut standout, 
the Met Grads.
The standings are:
Kiltie League
W.L.
SAE ...............................40
Phvsics Grads...........3,0
PKA ...............32
PK “A”........................21
BTP ...............................13
Faculty ........................13
TX “T” ........................05
Tartan League
W.L.
ATO “A” ....................30
Grad Iggles ................20
KS .................................21
SN .................................32
DTD .............................01
03
BSR ...............................03
Skibo League
W.L.
TX “X”........................40
AIEE 1 ........................21
32
TDP ...............................11
ATO “C” ....................14
Boss Hall ....................04
Plaid League
W.L.
Met Grads ..................30
SAE “B” ....................20
Clyde St. A.C...............32
PK “B” ........................11
ATO “B” ....................02
AIEE 2 ........................04
Cross Country
[continued from page 5] 
taing his athletic activities, Arnie 
keeps a high scholastic average— 
he is in the Phi Kappa Phi schol­
astic honorary—and is a member 
of the Varsity C Club and the 
ATO fraternity.
Arnie’s biggest thrill in track 
came in his freshman year when 
he went to the Tri-State track 
meet as the substitute two miler. 
The regular two miler, a senior, 
picked Arnie to run instead, and 
Arnie finished third. The winner, 
incidentally, was Bob Carman, 
present track coach, then a junior.
T ickets
Mortar Board Theater Party 
tickets will be on sale in Skibo 
tomorrow and Thursday from 
11:30 to 1:30, and at the door of 
the Playhouse. Night school 
students may obtain tickets 
from Emily Muhic, Plaid editor. 
Price is $1.75.
another
innovation
in
good taste
by
(ordnest
first name in quality formais
IM Roundup
Bowlin Q
Bowling season began last Sat­
urday, but already several leaders 
have opened wide leads. SAE 
leads the Strikes League with a 
3-0 record. The Spares League 
lead is shared by SN “A,” DTD, 
and the Obelisks, all at 3-0.
Water Polo
Last year’s champs, ATO “A” 
are strong again this year and 
should win the Wave League. TX 
and SN are leading the Splash 
League and could give ATO a stiff 
fight for the championship.
WAA
Women’s basketball is in a mid­
season dogfight, as four teams have 
come this far with unblemished 
records. The Faculty, Thetas, Kap­
pas, and Giffari teams play each 
other this week, with the campus 
championship at stake.
Bridge
The battle of the sexes is prov­
ing that bridge-wise women really 
are the weaker sex. The AEPhis 
and Kappas have been trounced 
by TX and the Obelisks. Teams to 
watch are the Grad Slams, Obe­
lisks, and PiKA “A” and “Pi.”
Pitt Buries PK
In the city championship intra­
mural football playoff, the physi­
cal education majors of Pitt down­
ed Tech’s representatives, the Phi 
Kaps, by a score of 40-6. Phi 
Kappa had previously defeated 
Duquesne 24-18 to gain the right 
to meet Pitt.
Pitt jumped off to a quick score 
and always held a favorable lead 
to gain the victory. The lone Phi 
Kappa score came in the third 
quarter as a 25-yard scoring pass, 
Hvisdos to Kaiser.
Entries Due
Call pool entries are due by 
December 17 at 4:30. Turn 
them in the IM office. Basket­
ball entries are also due the 
following day at 4:30 in the 
office. All independent basket­
ball teams must turn their 
forfeit fee ii along with their 
entries.
Slate Tops Tech
Carnegie Tech’s Cagers fell vic­
tim to a big, fast Penn State Lion 
basketball team in losing their 
season opener 80-51.
Both teams showed evidence of 
first game jitters in the early 
stages, and it was late in the first 
half before the Nittany Lions 
started to pull ahead.
The game was a foul-shooting 
contest in the first half, and there 
was little improvement in the sec­
ond half as each team shot 45 
fouls, with Tech cashing in on 29 
of them.
Charles Goetz was high scorer 
for Tech with 13 points followed 
by Frank with 11 and Sobolewski 
with 10.
The Tartans have a much taller 
team than they’ve had in past 
years but are also a slower mov­
ing organization.
CARNEGIE TECH | PENN STATE ^ G. F. P.|f6 756 0 0 0 0 0
Goetz, fSob’l’wski, f 2 Frank, c 2Ficery, g 2Flynn, g 0Doxtader, c 0 
Miller, f 0Rupert, g 0 Dobrian, g 0 Densmore, g 1
G. F. P. 3 4 10 7 13 1 94 12 3 181 72 2 2 2 0 0 
3 7
G. F. P.4 5 13|Palmiero, lOjaidy, f 11 ¡Ramsay, c 
9jRainey, g 6| Leisher, g 0| Hancock, f 0| Edwards, c 0| Perry ,g OlShwndmn, g 0 2| Kubista, f 2-----—| —
Totals 11 29 51| Totals 24 32 80 Half time score—Penn State 38. Car­
negie Tech 25.Personal fouls: Tech—Goetz 5, Sobo­lewski 3, Frank 3, Ficery 4, Flynn 5, Doxtader, Rupert, Dobrian, Densmore. Penn State—Palmiero 5, Baidy 4, Ramsay 2, Rainey 4, Leisher 3, Hancock 5, Ed­wards 2. Schwendeman.Officials—Neff, Sack.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
w
ô ^eaJZ- QjbiL 0i Qoh,
I
ue fvn to 90 formal n tM* trim n«w to* with scmi-pcak lap*!, natural *Kould*r», Caro pockets, i*o«-pl*atod trovtor*. Jot Hack oK'season worsted.•«Ik («tin CrltYc(
For nans« of nearest retailer or free formal dress cHart, writes 
West Mill Clotfces. tot.101 w. 21 N. f. II
Of course. Most 
everyone does—often.
Because a few moments 
over ke-cold Coca-Cola 
refresh you «0.
It’s sparkling with natural goodness, pure and 
wholesome—and natural) y friendly to your figure.
Feel like having a Coke?
QUAKE* STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
878* Central Aw. *1 1-7*11
A Look Back—Football
By Stan Zionts
As the Tech sports scene switches from football to basketball, 
we take one last look at the Tartan squad.
While the three-five record compiled by the Scot eleven is the 
worst since 1948, the team has had more than their share of hard 
luck. First off, ten returnees, in-#--------------------------------—----------------------
eluding three possible starters 
failed to return because of fail­
ures and dropouts.
The lack of depth took its toll by 
plaguing the Tartan team with in­
juries. Halfbacks “Jeep” Myers 
and Walt Majeski were kept from 
action part of the season because 
of knee injuries. Two weeks gao. 
Majewski re-injured his knee and 
will have an operation in the near 
future. Fullback Bob Schmitz 
missed three mid-season games 
due to a cracked rib. A broken 
hand knocked out center Ed Aus­
länder early in the season. The 
biggest blow came in the F & M 
game when quarterback John 
Tucci broke his left wrist. This 
left Dr. Baker with nothing but 
four first-year quarterbacks. Jim 
Muth, who filled the slot, showed 
a lot of promise, but was no match 
for the veteran quarterbacks of 
Franklin and Marshall, St. Vin­
cent, and Westminster.
The pre-season prospects were 
relatively good as Tech won two 
practice games—against Slippery 
Rock and Grove City. Although 
Buffalo won the opener 13-6, the 
Scots played an outstanding game, 
holding the strong team to a 6-6 
tie until late in the fourth quar­
ter. The Johns Hopkins medics 
met with defeat in the second 
contest 19-13. The Bluejays over­
came a two touchdown deficit to 
lead at the half, 13-12, but Tech 
came back in the final period to
>
clinch the game. This year’s 
Homecoming game against Dick-^N 
inson was one in which Tech 
chalked up a large score, whip­
ping the Red Devils 31-0.
Temple, fired up with a new 
coach and their first victories in 
two years, dropped Tech in their 
home opener, 27-12. In the next 
contest, W. & J presented no pro­
blem for the Tartans as Tech won 
16-0. In the F & M contest, Tucci 
broke his wrist and left Tech wltt 
a weak attack. Franklin anc 
Marshall remained undefeated as 
they whipped the Scots 21-0.
St. Vincent beat Tech for the 
first time in a frigid night game 
at Forbes Field, 21-7. November 
17 a mighty Westminster squad, 
containing thirteen four-year men, 
trounced the Tartans, 48-0. Hal 
Davis, Little All American quar­
terback, led the attack, with help 
from fullback Bill White, end^,' 
Willie Davis and Vince Cortese to 
clinch the Titan’s second perfect 
season.
Tech’s prospects for next year 
are somewhat brighter than this 
season turned out to be. Only two 
students wll be missing because 
of term ineligibility. These are 
halfbacks “Jeep” Myers and Tom 
Briner. If Tech can hold the rest 
of this year’s lettermen and most 
of their reservists, Dr. Eddie Baksfi? 
er can look forward, with a little 
pleasure, to next year’s season.
^ It’s Christmas, § 
f Ebenezerl
TI Time to Saveli
On Trips Home For The Holidays
NL RyoIiAEar
Akron, Ohio...........$3.13
Altoona, Pa........... 2.50
Bedford, Pa.............2.50
Buffalo, N. Y.......... 6.30
Canton, Ohio.........2.50
Chicago, III.............11.40
Cleveland, Ohio .... 3.65 
Columbus, Ohio .... 4.70
Detroit, Mich..........7.60
Easton, Pa............... 7.65
Erie, Pa...................3.90
Gettysburg, Pa........4.60
Harrisburg, Pa........5.35
Johnstown, Pa.........1.75
Ligonier, Pa............1.30
Mansfield, Ohio .... 4.05 
Marietta, Ohio .... 4.15 
New York City, N. Y. 9.90 
Philadelphia, Pa. ... 7.80
St. Louis, Mo..........14.30
Toledo, Ohio .........6.25
Washington, D. C... 6.7**
"Ceke" * • regUUr«4 trade-mark.© 105«. THX COCA-COLA COMPANY
Plus U. S. Tax 
Save an Extra 10% Each Way with a Round-Trip Ticket
LIBERTY at GRANT 
GR 1-5700

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 4, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
'4
^CAUNEGffi^6 •#)// JWfilJb/AW MM Vy -
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
^ Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ............................................................................ John Van Holt, Jr.
Sideline l\ews 
And Views
By John Van Holt, Jr.
With the passing of each day the realization that Christmas Day 
0 fast approaching. “The First Noel,” “Adeste Fidelis,” and “O Little 
Town of Bethlehem” are but a few of the time enduring carols familiar 
to one and all. ?--------------------------------------—----------------
The Pittsburgh Concert Choir 
will attempt a new trend from 
past programs by presenting 
carols that are more familiar to 
Europeans than to Americans.
The 50 voice choir, under the 
baton of John R. Lively will pre­
sent Claudio Monteverdi’s “Mag-f
ificat,” an Eighteenth Century 
hristmas Mass by Carpentier, 
and a group of old English and 
modern Spanish carols.
The program will take place on 
Tuesday evening, December 11, 
at Mt. Mercy’s Antonian Hall. To 
those of you who dote on unusual 
trends this program should be 
quite enjoyable.
Home on the Range 
Veterans of World War II and 
^e Korean War who are making 
future plans to purchase new 
homes via G.I. Loans are warned 
to make a personal inspection of 
the property prior to making any 
money transactions. Although the 
Veterans- Administration provides 
inspection services to determine 
acceptable standards of sound 
construction, a satisfactory in­
spection by prospective buyers 
with the home builder will save 
Qnter anguish. Avoid being “Sad- 
der-but-wiser.”
Library Receives Another Gift 
Here of late the Tech library 
has finally begun_to receive its
ES Newman Club 
Plans Communion 
Breakfast Sunday
^ Evening School Newman Club 
will hold their first Communion 
Breakfast of this year at Sacred 
Heart Church, East Liberty, De­
cember 9. Newmanites will at­
tend the 10:45 a.m. Mass as a 
group and participate in congre­
gation singing of the responses 
during Mass. Immediately after­
wards, breakfast will be served 
in Sacred Heart Community Cen- 
Apr, 6207 Alder Street off Shady 
avenue.
Following breakfast, there will 
be a brief initiation ceremony 
for new members. Father Regis 
J. Berkmyer, Chaplain, will be 
speaker.
Breakfast reservations must be 
in by December 6. Please call eith­
er Liz Bogus, St 1-0013 or Mary 
Ann Sciorilli, Ct 1-0393 to make 
your reservations.
Candidates For 
Degrees
Postal cards have been sent 
to all evening students who 
are known candidates for the 
degree of bachelor of science 
in June 1957. Any who did not 
^receive such a notice and ex­
pect to graduate in June 
should stop at the registrar’s 
office in the evening and re­
port to Mr. McKelway.
Any graduate students reg­
istered in evening classes who 
expect to complete their re­
quirements in January or 
June should also stop or call 
the registrar of evening 
classes.
¥---------------------------------------------------
fair share of gifts from various 
concerns. Frank S. Douglas, pres­
ident of the Pittsburgh Chapter of 
the National Association of Cost 
Accountants, and general ac­
countant of Jones & Laughlin 
Steel Corporation is the latest of 
the list of benefactors. Mr. Doug­
las presented a complete file of 
monthly bulletins of the Associa­
tion which dates as far back as 
1918. A check was also presented 
to the library to defray the cost 
of binding the bulletins.
ES Council Monte 
Carlo A Success
ES Student Council held a 
Monte Carlo on November 17 at 
Thistle Hall. Many students and 
friends attended and enjoyed the 
games of chance. One of the 
members had gone to “Holly­
wood” and brought back priceless 
articles from the latest movies.
Those attending this social 
event bid on these “White Ele­
phants” to the chant of the auc­
tioneer, Matt Bertovich, assisted 
by the “Dance Hall Girls”, Mary 
Alice Peterson and Emily Muhic. 
The hall was gaily decorated with 
balloons, soft lights and the fel­
lows working the tables wore 
side-burns and mustaches. Re­
corded music and soft drinks 
rounded out an enjoyable eve­
ning.
Evening Sorority 
Treats Pledges
Phi Gamma Pi sorority had a 
spaghetti dinner for new pledges 
on November 18, at Carnegie Un­
ion. The dinner was prepared by 
Evelyn Kaney, Sandra Dunn, 
and Mary Alice Chilleo with a 
special assist from Mary Alice’s 
mother.
Pledges voted into membership 
were Mary Friend, Margaret Du- 
bick, Lorraine Harz, and Drucilla
Claiguire. Special guest for the 
evenirig was Ralph Czernok.
The next meeting of the soror­
ity is scheduled for December 9, 
at Carnegie Union from 2 to 4:30 
p.m. This will be for the initia­
tion of new members. Ellen Gon- 
ter is in charge of refreshments 
and program for December 9, and 
will be assisted by Mary Alice 
Peterson.
Evening Fraternity 
Plans Monte Carlo
Phi Nu, Evening School Social 
fraternity, held its fall business 
meeting on Saturday, November 
24, 1956, at the Parkway Hotel, 
Route 22, Monroeville. Dinner 
was served at 6:00 p.m., followed 
by the meeting.
New officers elected for the 
coming year were Jack Rice, Di­
rector; A1 Brooks, seneschal; and 
Jim Shaw, herald.
Plans were completed for the 
Monte Carlo to be held at Car­
negie Union December 15. Dinner 
will be served at 6:00 p.m. follow­
ed by an evening of roulette, 
bingo, dice, chuck-a-luck and oth­
er games of chance. Prizes will be 
awarded to the big “money win­
ners.”
Newmanites Held 
Spaghetti Dinner 
On November 18
The Italian Sons and Daugh­
ters of America Club was the 
scene of a spaghetti dinner held 
by the Newman Club on Novem­
ber 18, after the members at­
tended the Steeler football game 
at Forbes Field.
Liz Bogus provided music by 
means of her hi-fi and after din­
ner many of the group danced 
while others engaged in singing, 
talking, or just watching the danc­
ers.
The previous Sunday, Novem­
ber 11, Prof. Elizabeth Wingerter, 
education department, Duquesne 
University was the main speaker 
at a meeting. Her topic was “The 
Catholic’s Role in the Field of 
Education and Sociology.” Prof. 
Wingerter stressed the importance 
of charity, not so much in terms 
of money, but rather time spent 
for and with the less fortunate. 
Her closing thought was, “Even 
though we are busy at work or in 
school, whatever we can do, even 
though to us it may seem to be so 
very little, will be so much appre­
ciated.”
A delicious buffet luncheon was 
prepared by Liz Bogus and Mary 
Ann Sicorilli.
Stop everything—start laughing!
//
IF YOU’VE GOT a Lucky, you’ve got it made. 
That’s ’cause you just can’t beat a Lucky for 
taste. Luckies are made of fine tobacco—light, 
naturally good-tasting tobacco ¿hat’s TOASTED 
to taste even better. In fact, you’ll say Luckies 
are the best-tasting cigarette you ever smoked. 
What more could you want? Oh, the answer to 
the Stickler! If you’re in a light plight, what you 
need is a Match, Natch!
"IT’S TOASTED"
to taste better!
CtCARETTES
¦> ¿i*«
gs A. T. Co. PRODUCT OF
STICKgE! MAKE $25
Sticklers are simple riddles with' two-word rhyming answers. 
Both words must have the same number of syllables. (No 
drawings, please!) They’re so easy, you can think of dozens 
in seconds. We’ll shell out $25 for every stickler we use—and 
for hundreds more that never see print. So send stacks of ’em 
with your name, address, college and class to Happy-Joe- 
Lucky, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
Luckies Taste Better
CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER I
r/yxany America’s leading manufacturée or cigarettes

---------------------------------------------------

WINSTON 
TASTES GOOD
Quen C 
aurConlln 
tYc(sd)
/UoJe¿ kuMdsGfth
the flavor comes through, too, because the 
exclusive Winston filter does its job so 
well. For finer filter smoking—get Winston!
¦ Here’s a cigarette you and your date will 
both go for! You’ll like the rich, full taste 
you get from a Winston. You’ll like the way
Switch to WINSTON Americas best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!
¦ . J. ««VNOLD# 
TOBACCO CO., 
W<N«TON.*AU«M. ¦ S.
8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 4. 195S
Congress—
[continued from page 1} 
dents, the drive was authorized.
All money received will be 
spent as follows: one-half of the 
total collected will go immedi­
ately to aid the refugees, and the 
other half will be held in reserve 
until the U.N. receives permission 
to go into Hungary, when it will 
be used for relief there. All 
money collected will be given to 
the World University Service 
which will use it only for the aid 
of the Hungarian students.
So when you walk past the 
tables in Skibo or in A.H. give 
more than a thought to those un­
fortunate college students who 
are waiting for your help. Give, 
and give freely, so that they may 
enjoy the same privileges we here 
at Carnegie Tech do.
Party—
[continued from page I] 
restaurant again. Or they may 
choose to go later just to watch 
the play and possibly visit the 
restaurant during part of the in­
termission.
The scholarships which will be 
paid for by the proceeds of the 
ticket sales, were formerly financ­
ed by an annual benefit bridge 
sponsored by Mortar Board. This 
year, however, the senior wom­
en’s honorary decided that too 
many organizations give benefit 
bridges and that such entertain­
ment becomes more obligation 
than enjoyment after *three or 
four of them. Investigating other 
methods of fund raising which 
would at the same time benefit the 
donators, in this case the Tech 
community, Mortar Board dis­
covered the theater party.
The group sincerely believes 
that it is giving more than their 
money’s worth to the playgoers, 
and that rather than being mere­
ly a benefit, the party will pro­
vide enjoyment, relaxation, and 
edification to the members of the 
Tech community attending.
Warner Chemistry 
Prizes Awarded 
To Sharp, Olmstead
The sophomore and senior War­
ner Prizes in chemistry have 
been awarded to John A. Olm­
stead III and Terry E. Sharp, Dr. 
Frederick Rossini announced re­
cently.
The Warner Prizes in chemis­
try were established by Tech 
president J. C. Warner, former 
head of the chemistry department.
The prize for sophomores con­
sists of a three year membership 
in the Student Affiliate Chapter 
of the American Chemical Soci­
ety. The prize lor seniors is a 
three-year membership in the 
American Chemical Society and is 
given for both scholarship 
achievement and profession­
al promise.
Chanukah—
[continued from page 1] 
the invocation and the benediction.
Opportunity for Broadening
The traditional lighting of the 
Chanukah candles with explana­
tions of their meanings and sig- 
nidcance will characterize Chan­
ukah in Symbolism and will be 
the climax of the program.
The directors of the CRA feel 
that this assembly presents an 
excellent opportunity for non- 
Jewish students to broaden their 
education by attending a Hebrew 
service outside school, all inter­
ested students and faculty mem­
bers will be welcome. Next Tues­
day will be the first of two sea­
sonal services and will be follow­
ed by the Christmas assembly on 
December 18. Today, the CRA 
sponsored a talk on Dead Sea 
Scrolls by Dr. David Noel Freed­
man.
Pgh's Most Modern Dance Spot
PGb. °ST DANCE CgUB
“More Than Just A Ballroom”
Sherwyn Hotel Bi°dd ot ' KE
FRI.. OCT. 12—9 P.M. to 1 A.M. 
And every Friday thereafter 
ORCHESTRA ^ Tech Invited
WINSTONwins honors on flavor!
Theater—
[continued from page 1 ] 
Guild is restricted to Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday night 
pei’formances only. Membership 
subscriptions will be on sale at 
Tech Thursday, December 6, from 
11:00 until 3:00 at the entrance to 
Administration Hall. Memberships 
may also be purchased by mail 
order. Checks should be made 
payable to the Theatre Guild, and 
sent to the Theatrs Guild, in care 
of the Nixon Theater, 956 Liberty 
Avenue, Pittsburgh 22. Choice of 
evening should be indicated when 
ordering subscriptions. Only a 
limited number of memberships 
are available.
Simon, Hollander 
Deliver Behavior 
Series Lectures
A series of four lectures on de­
velopments in the behavioral sci­
ences is being presented by fac­
ulty members of the psychology 
and industrial administration de­
partments.
Professor E. P. Hollander pre­
sented the first of the series on 
November 29. Yesterday the sec­
ond talk was given by Dr. H. A. 
Simon.
“Integrating Man and Society,” 
last Thursday’s talk, covered lead­
ership qualities and the age-old 
controversy of individualism ver­
sus conformity. Professor Hol­
lander stressed the fact that ve%‘< 
little true individuality exists, for 
the “individualist” is usually con­
forming to the standards of a 
group of “individualists.”
Yesterday, Dr. Simon, in his 
lecture on “Problem Solving by 
Humans and Computers,” told of 
the relationship oi computers to 
human thought processes. He also 
spoke of the sense in which ma­
chines are used to compute prob^j, 
lems.
Dr. Simon had much experience 
before coming to Tech in 1949. He 
went to the University of Chicago, 
where he obtained his B.S. and 
Ph.D. degrees. Then he was affili­
ated with the Universities of Cali­
fornia and Illinois. Dr. Simon is 
j now the dean of the School of 
Industrial Administration.
Campus beadquarters for Arrow Produds Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD S MEN’S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. — Oakland
Where the compliments 
are ladled out
These days, it’s very often that you
find a guy wearing this Arrow Glen 
button-down. It rates plenty of praise for . 
its trim-tailored collar and harmonizing colors
(newest is a subtle blue). There are a dozen shades 
to choose from in oxford or broadcloth . . . and a 
new Arrow silk striped tie to top it off.
Glen White shirt, £3.95; patterns and solid 
colors, £5.00; tie, $2.50.
ARROW
—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES
