VOL XXI NO. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1926
COMPLETELEC» 
TURE BILL OF 
CONFERENCE
Cities,-States, Many Nations' 
Send Men to 1st Inter­
national Fuel Meet
SEVERAL FOREIGN 
DELEGATES ARRIVE
Exhaustion' of U. S. Petro­
leum Fields Will be One 
of the Major Topics
The plane for the International Coal Conference, to be-held at Car­negie, November..15-1B, ere. rapidly neaiingcouipletion.A number of .the foroigB'.Bpeakere. have.already arrived In. this country, . Including one.; ot the' moat important scient­ists; Dr. Friedrich Bergius, of. Ger­
many, who was met by Dr. Baker . lust week in New -York.' Others 
from England, GêrmânyendFrance ¦will'arrive ¿lorlljr. 'Many ol the governors of the states and a large number of city mayore are sending delegates to the cohference. When the. conference le In sesBlon, It will be the first Noie • that Bo lorge a number of 'eminent scientists and .'engineer» bay's:/been - brought- to­gether In thè Interest3.0l .c0al.A pten-that "probably wOl be' car-' rled out for the classification of the lecturéB during the conference Is a« follows:
•Present Practices:- Power Sec­tion, High Temperature Section' and Coal Tar.Utilization Section;. Theory: Gasification- Section, Fer- . timer. Section andSmokelesa Fuel Section; Petroleum Products: Low ¦Température Section; >Several of the speakers will. talk.
* on; more- than - one.-of the .topics under dlBcùéslûn: Thé conference• will last- for. three days. The Tar­tan will 'publish In' thè nearfutare 'a comploté program ot each.day's proceedihgaiwlth the names and topics 'of the varloûs speakers.'• The -present dire ;coai situation brings thé magnitudeand import- ance of-the .coal conference into ''light -in addition,/ the ,petroleum supply of the county le. being rajH 'Idly drained, to such an. extent that conservative estimates fix'thé .limit of the'pçtential BUpply.if .the : v p resent. rate _ ot ; ' çr.oàiiction... an d - ^consumption '. Is maintained-,- at ' six :yenrs. One' of thé '' conference’s 
' pbjecta IS to determine cota-’
THISTLE ON SALE • /IN HALLS OF ALL';BUILDINGS TOMORROW
An intensive sales campaign forthe 1927 Thi6tla will be held to­morrow from, 11:30 tp 1:30. This ifl the first, of a series of Thistle Day Campaigns. This Idea was in- 1 timed last year and proved Very successful.. It-adrves the- double-' porpboe br.infdroilng' the stoflenUiaheadof time, -that-they m&yhave their money ready, and also focill- 
tates matters -for the ctalT; giving them’.an early-idea of’how many books will have to be . printed. Tables will be placed in Science, Arts. Margaret Morrison and Indus­tries building and salesmen will be located In the halls of the var­
ious'buildings during noon, hours. The 1927 ThlBllewIll be the best ever. Not only wQl it be larger, .but the «over will be a com­plete Innovation from last year. The theme of the book.wiu also be irprlse, a- departure from the wry form.
(Continued-''1
ANNUAL GUILD FROLIC 
SCHEDULED FOR DEC. 4
. The Guild, woi
WED. LAST DAY FOR 
THISTLE PHOTOS
Many Senior Pictures Not 
Taken—Must Make 
Appointments Now
ALVIN BROWN 
CHAIRMAN OF 
JÜNI0R PROM
John Van Druten, Author of “Young 
Woodlèÿ” Speaks on Modern Drama
Prelim inerySale ofTickets 
To Take Place Before 
Thanksgiving
SUBCOMMITTEES 
NAMED NEXT WEEK
Prom Will be Held at End 
of Present Semester 
January 28
MANY GROUPS OUT
...November the. fourth' has • been 
set as -the la^t'day tor the 't&Jcing of Thistle pictures. It ia bard to understand the .lack of .coopera­tion ou the part- of the"'student body, when the fact is considered that tbe Thistle 1s Carnegie’s an- run), the only real chronldo of st.u- lent life for the year, 
it would seem from the way in *hlch the different groups have their appointments
that thereatbeiibfe. ' However, this has 1' -deploi
¦verythlng 'that could be desired. 
Thétroùble cannot then be laid to tbla càuse. ' .t. the groups -have not ap^ all; oreisehave.bèén so 0 disarrange all the fol­lowing.-,program....'Last year the 
same - trouble occurred and many
found tn.thé year book. ••The e
Alvin Brown has been selected 
chairman of the.Men’s Junior Prom scheduled to be held on January 26. • He'was-selected by. the-com­mittee which was recently.: ap^ pointed by the president of the. 
Junior class In each school.
The Junior Prom, which is the classic on the sqcinl' calendar of this school may be held In one of 
the following places: William Penn. Hotel, where the Prom was held for the jPaBt few years;' WebBter 
HalL. a new. place in the Oakland district or some ' equally popular place.' The hall selected will be announced as soon VO possible.
'-'. There wlU be a meeting, of the commlttee-thia . Week in - orddT to decide upon the sub committees and to take care of all details-con­cerning the Prom. An attempt is being made to make the Janfor of-this year the finest and colorful in the history ot tho
Alvin Brown- is a member of Alpha Tau Omega . (a ' social fra­ternity) and also of Delta Skull (Juuloi;.honorary.fraternity). ...He Is a 'Junior in ,Works .Management in the-Industries building. In ad­dition to other activities he Is tho treasurer of .the Industries Senate.
Although'few .of the committees hnve besn'formed, the musical end Is being taken .care of by Theodore. Moore.' He promises, to obtain an. - . (ponijnu'ed pn -Page Four.) -'
ENGLISH SINGERS AT 
MUSIC HALL NOV. 3
John Van Druten, popular Eng­lish playright, whose'play vyoung Woodley*.’ scored such a -.tremen­dous hlttn New York last winter, spoke on.' Wednesday, .October 27¿. In Carnegie Leclure Hall.' Ho -was' Introduced .- by ---Charles- Kenyon, president of'the Drama League, as 'England’s .most promising, young iramatlst;"- those who doubted 
this, were invited to attend a per­formance qf (‘Young Woodley" which ' is being presented next week In Pittsburgh to lot hlia speak ¦r himself. S
Van Druten talked ot the "Mod- ¦n English . Dramatists, Their Methods, and What They are lio-1 lng."- He presented an interesting, definition of drama as "a contin­ued make-believe.'’ And audiences, sold, aa a'rule aro toó flrníly. insistent on realism of petty de-, tall which is not tñe drama, at all;Modern drama, according to .Van Druten, begins with' IbBeiL ;He ilutloñizfid tbe stágeby raising tils curtain'on situations - which
promptly" for ¦th6ir'"slftlnga Any! orgaulzatlon: that has had their-picture taken, please -far with the -photography editor Pavis Wilson,. Phone Haze! .3320
Schedule «? pictures:Tuesday, November 2nd. Machinery Hall;>:i2:b0: - Science 
Juniors. Science Sophomores Industries. SpphomoiSchool, 1:00:
By Famous London Sexu t
throplc organUatlon.. ; la "• already busy with piBns for 'the'' annual carnlvalio be held probably the .'night of Docember fourth. ' This yc;ar, above: -all others,. Is .to be marked •with' superhuman -effort- 
for the glrle see..tbelr goal-at last within reach. .And that goal?. To .establish a-camp for the; children in one-' of - the poor, districts of Pittsburgh. : Such was the aim of- ' the- organizers of the group, and each year each group hasi workedto add some . to the fund:' Now.'ihe . The electloua for class officers present • organization is -cheered.¡held .during the past' week In- Sci-
.by-thei'thought- that.thlB^s.aarffi.af* :en'ce and.;Indi}strle,3. _____ .’ '- actoally bring the.camp 11mportance to the'FreBhman Class |the supi - ' :l ’ “¦ " onLores. . ' " I'
SCIENCE FRESHMEN 
'HOLD REVOTE.TODAY
' -If the New York critics, and the- musical crlUca pf Europe aré right,' 
and mine of ttíem think they, áre, then the -Art Society ie giving Its members and all who wish to hear, a -wonderfully £&e concert by the. English iS&ngers on Wednesday evening, November 3rd, In Caxne-. gio Muslc Hall at 8:15.
The Ene-Jlsh Singers, are a sex­tet composed of three women and three men who come, from London; with a most fascinating program of old LXIN.8CXA the glorious. Eliza­bethan period; Motets, Madflgale, Balleta^ Canzonénts, and other rare and captivating ;th1ngs which áre centuries oldi and yet as fresh and charming as ever, and with á sur­prising modernity about, them Such part-song . writing“ - seems ft lost art, and requires great skill In its interpretation. It Is: intricate, and-, exacting;' unaccompanied, -and
said that to 'dòte up for thè-carni- vai Is quite the thing.. Booths wlth- food and'novelties displayed, , the popular eftat/ng rfhg.vand a play •by Art; School Uudents.:. hav'e’:so . Tar been -'planned . by ' the : "board.•'The • wpi'd.rgolng^ around-^e-jthat maleà\wit(i.an..ordlaary.,ajnount of - sense will '’‘"wait'^Bcfmé^-wéeics to date up for- the’.'big. party but tho.Wise guy will ; date' up early with Anderson, being ch«
trlsls. -Neither Tom. REGE Rower Maze secured, thé .: majority 'for ltie: importar of FresHni
. Lhe girl wl manabo; ing %on-dating.
that ordinary gentle
'Ey//spi 
:ouncil,
ill pay:.'
has ;;been ¿ranged .t fraternity ru6htng parties; will- not Interfere with.:this big. event.. That little .worry Is how -removed;' iu fact, 'all .'his 'been; made' cleai except the actual .Bating. ; of the 
:Blrl. ' We leave'- thaj. to, “You." .W. 5 This -’oeaT's officers: Ruth Daw-' son,, prcsidenti ’ iAgnes 'Bittakor; . ee^retary, ' and : Lucille /Galmlah,' treasurer, axe working hard with the board anV with Adele Hahn, pubHelt.v. niahagGr,' to .make th© 1926 -Carnival a ;'jneniorableevent; .In''Garn^e'r-Matoiy'.-.' \" ¿¿v-v
was choscn, Clij Sahdy Örr Sect
slngei
That these singers are equal, to 
the -test assures an evening of’un-. alloyed pleasure, one that, every studopt, - and music lover, ai well as ,', b'yery . Art Sqclety:. Member should' hear. Tbs' Art: Society ex­tends a heaHy welcome to alL,and has a particularly enticing special 
price'for students.
"The Eogilati Singera s/tnroaBd a taiile in Van Informal : way,' as the older ' madrigal singers did years
1 *» be it» at sieli'ana'-¡s PKt certedly b'tt« Sttge in voniiB j wouder£ll|. apd 7aried compoBitldas
. cHo.sen. fii Koyember 3r^ ,ing.. Bud Buckiey } . ' • ,7”is »¡a Hill, is Interfraternltv
of class leaders. Is
ill pit.”' The '- hiutual' opposition I. rivalry of the-two classes in 
se' affairs make claaa organiisa- a ;; and leadership questtons.-.nl 
rnary. lmporl-ahce. :v?'
Eugene Ronceray--Noted Foundry- 
Man Visits Carnegie on Recent Trip
. Among' the. foreign:, dëlegàtessto the Second International-,.^
• men’s ,Cui^e^e;'who<vl8i't^^ iho^. . Carnegie:.Institute1 oit- ; Technology roçently, - wa6, Mr. ; Eugene^'Victor- 
¿rRonceray. :ÀtV^é::in^ Vfoundrymen,; •'Mrlv- '-¦I^àcëtay^'waà' ^àwàfded the J. H. .‘Whiting .Gold Medal of 'the : American 'Foundry- .'mon’6.;AŒ0claçidn \ • in;, recognition' ^ofihlB; cpntrttiution; lb' “theyfoiindry' 
'• .inittBtry,^;-;v>ÿr-;‘-l''>--:'.-v,s •^’ ‘Mr.'^RoncerBy Is president^ :«nd tÀanaging-dlRctor of /rhe .l^nlyer*' •al 'lByetem - of ' Machine ;'Moûldi^g - and-Machinery Company. Ltd.,- of Losdon. ud director of studlVs at
the Fot)odi7-Hlgh Bchool-of Paris. Together wlth; Mr.. Bonvillaln of 
Parla, be «»UbUabes tbe flnt
nanufacturer of mouldlng.;'ma- ¡hlnea' In^Fraiice. , Mr. Ronceray has-devoted^he.gni'àttìr part: òf his llfè' to,-. foundry , practice. :: In'- 19Ò7 
he vlslted Pitteburgh and^wafl^ttie- flrat^inanto‘dla’pIayk^ "inotlón..pÌc- türe'ijiï^inô'lô'^V^^
Càrnecìe jüatitüe "of',:. Tèchnoìég^, Hto^Iecturee'.oncui^lapr^ttce.fmdj moùldlng^andhla'articieatay«*.inadey;him«ne^tv.T-the fonnârÿmçn •' ha . ¿he world; - lo l92l oe.orlglnated.the ldoa ot a<special fonndry .Bcliool in . a lectnra which 
he delivered la Liege.’ Belgium, and three year* later the Ant foun­dry Bohool was inaugunted-.ln Paris. Daring.-the .'^international . ; (Coitlnsed 00 Page Fonr.).: ^
Delegate to New York
: Hill in'aa^a del-conrerence .'of 'Inter- 
fraternity-Councils at New York. ,Bury. it. Hilt is .a'Junior in.elec-- tr.lcab engineering, .a . member . . of Sigma' Phl’Ep8llon--£raternlty, >nd Is president-of the Inter-fraternity Council. He will.repreeent the .Car-' ue'gle' Coun'cU at' a -general under graduate conference .of Inter-fratier- ntty-Council^ to be held ;at New 
York on November 6. V; . -- j i "¦ 
.The Social Committee;.-reported thefr. investigations r- ln: .regard ..to an orcbestra . to play at the/' Inter- p-aternity:; Formal and- .'also- for a Rnititile'-place to.' hold 1 the affair. The '‘Pan-Hellenic" aa It Is'often called. ia the bigseet event lnj'the .calendar ,of .fraternlty . 0.oclai :fuiicr tloni. lt.iG olwayi planned lbngsbq- iore .the .r.dat^-VaisIgned .so. that it Abali;-ln no.wiBe ^be- lacking, in^-tho featureB-TfhIci'"Bi|Cceratul;formala 
of other yeara have made peculiar- ts this.affair.:.The omena'thua far preaaKe r for the '.’Oreeba" of thia year- ao affair whlch'will: be eflual
marked the end ot other play6. His work is not 60 much .an analy­sis of action as one of motives. He lonovdteo to the lino of technique, the practice tit having fewer scenes and loss intermission, to the- end of-keiaplng.the.audience In .an unbroken state of illuplon-through­out the play. - Ibsen.does not glori­fy:-he attacks hypocrisy and cea- vehUohal morality, bringing the glorious innovation of. truth into drama. Van Druton was very em­phatic ofi the point that a dvainat- Ist uhould never show his band; the workings of the technique of a play should always be carefully concealed from, the audience. Ib­sen, he aays, -Is master of this 
trick. • ~
Shaw, Van Druten believes, Is the 'biggest figure . In Kngllsh drama. He has a definite message and' a - philosophy to. promulgate from behind the footlights, and he very wisely coats It with a ribald wit and; at times, an almost crude.(Oontlnued on- Patre Four^
campus Influence In the form of a Freshman Activities As­sembly fs to be inaugurated this veek under the direction oC the Student CouucU. At eleven-thirtytoda]
Ghoose Russian Motif 
For Arts Ball Period
To Give Students Opportun­
ity For Wide and Varied 
Use óf ' Brilliant Color
PLEBES CO-OPERATE
ahoimcement by Lee Twohig, Chairman . of the DaBlgn Cornmit- The prevailing ' sentlmont g Arts studeniB indicates that (vas á very wise choice. Ttte if tho ItusBlan motl^ will g^ve opportunity'- for a' wide and varied if brilliant color The deuign committee. at present' Is working a number of qdlle 6tarlllng dec- ktive schemes, . all endeavoring.
a of rr colorín good
-This year's Ball will be probably
of two yeafel ago. The. detailsj of the plans will not be disclosed; [as this will provide nn attitude ..of. suspense and expectation/ wblch.^ according to the commllee, wlii noi be dlBapjolntliig.
A: [particular plea :ls..-lssued. 3iow to the Axts.Plebes, It ie desirable, to avoid' a last minute's rnsh of work, ; and . to this end, work is bolng' started much earlier thanhas» the c•Oper«f Uie 'freshmis. necessary. ..Every Plebe is asked zo have his work card made out ‘immediately, In order that the'decorations may be begun. As much , time as . possible
if the v: properly; Which really puts to the Plebe to put the Ball Get' together, Plebes. and
bé doi
MILITARY BALL GIVEN 
BY R.O.T.C. NEXT WED,
On Wednesday evening, Novem­ber 10, The Carnegie Union will be1 the scene-of thej second annual Miliary Ball, oite of the -' high ilghte .of the-Campus, social season. The date la rather appropriate, be­ing the- eve of Armistice* Day, a school holiday.On-thlo occasion the .Honorary cadet .officers who will be elected this week-wlll. receive, their com- inl30(onsi -The girls, candidates for this -oiTlce -were nomluated-aud in- 1 R. O. T. C. tea Wednesday 'In -thetìnión; • 
ndet -majorfor Uo
Evelyn Reese, Mildred Seamans. Tbe non for .the honorary captaincies Mildred S8OVT Jean Mather,McColley, Betty McFadd«
Carnegie Glee Club 
At Chape! Thursday
Club Will Compete in Coun­
try-Wide Competition 
at Philadelphia
HOLLINSHEAD DIR;
. Every indication points to a very (.uccesaiUI season for cite Carnogle Glee Club this year. The first pub­lic appearance of. the club will bo on November 4th in the chapel. The biggest IhJng planned for the' season is the' trip to Philadelphia where the club will compete In the National- Glee Ciub- compelllion.s •M err 11 Holllnehead, a.: senior In •he department of mueic- Is student director ot the Glee Club this year. Holllnshe&d has .-had considerable experienco In men's voice - work. Tho. rehearsals held on Wednes­day night and all concerts that Mr. H. Gaul director of the dub will be unable to attend;'‘will be under the direct- supervision' nf Hollins- 
head.In addition to the appearance this Thursday of the club at chap­el; a concert has ?been arranged which will be: given,In the Carne­gie Music Hall-on' the North Side' —Novemier .17.-,-- . TJtere Js still plenty of TOom-for (Continued on'Page Four.)
hie la tbe 'Little Theatre of Arte Building. . It 1V imperativo that all itnberè ot thlB group be prosent. the gathering will be of vital. Importance to 'their future on the Carnegie campus.The object of the meeting Is to -jrmulate Jn the minds ot the plebee a definite understanding of irous campus. activities requesting. their support Representatives, of tho various ;roups 'VriU/-briefly review the gon- »ral work of their organizations, uid it is hoped to olear - up thé minds .of the first year men Yegard- leg the many requests of- student groups for new members and slip-; porters.
The major talk of the assembly ill 'be-glyen by. Lloyd-Yoder, cap­tain of the Carnegie eleven, in sup- of tho atrletlc activities here, r . speakers will present ¦ the various phases of. uòn*athletlc" V8UF tivltles. ' John Carr, president of tho Student Council, has been giv- ing much of hle^tlme -recently, in the Interest òf this new kind or Freshman Assembly-, and he has promised an Interesting sesalou for all the plebes.- .Trere can he little 
doubt as to 'the succeas of the re- >ntly-lnaugurâted plan and it (Continued on. Page Three.)
Rev. J. R. Ewers Speaker 
At Chapel On Thursday
Rev. John Roy Eweva, pastor of the Bast' End Christian Church,- will be the Bpeakee at tbe Institute Chapel Service In the Llttie Thea­ter on Thursday of this week. Rev. Ewers has'chosen-for hie topic a subject of very general student in­terest and a large attendance at 
chapel is anticipated,
The Carnegie Glee Club will, also makf. HY first appearance on the campus this .year at , the Thurs­day service. . /Several .'fine numbers have' been prepared and this musi­cal club- will add greatly to the 
chapel .period.v Dr. Baker presides at all chapel, services during the year, and tbe programs are. arranged with care Lo 'interest’ the students, particular­ly the new clansmen and -fresh-.
Mar-
Evelyn Oftut,-.Helen- Riddle, Jean Roy,. Marjory Snodgrass, Ruth Thomas,': -Margaret Wects, and Charlotte Wardale. /'"due .' Honorary Major.'is to be clected,’and four .Captains. The voting wli\ -take .piace.
ANNUAL FALL. “MUM".SHOW WILL BE HELD * .. IN SCHENLEY PARK
' With promise of a more colorful Hhow than ever before., .the annual mum display will open Sunday, No­vember 7 at^both cSchefiley Park and West t*ark and ;Wi.li continue far. three weeks,James,;<Moord of the bureau of parlts. :.wiil have dl-
themums' will -be sbown .-wlth a total aggregate of. 19,000' ^lilboms.’’ In thé Schènley Párk conservatoryof the. three opëiied for AtóchenleInspection. yester-
until the evening of the Ball.
Cosmopolitan Club to Hold 
Dance in Union Sat. Night
will be 12,000 flowers.. William I-fartlep foreman of the Phipps Con­servatory in West Park; Northsldo secret lié . arranging 7,000 posies, for ala-
The Schenley Parle Conservatory; iHt-a. few atepô from our campus, s located' favorably , for. Carnegie
The Intercollegiate Cosmopoli- an Club will hold a dance at Car- cgle- Ùnlon on November tj. The ours, are'nine; to twelve,1 and . the saesBment will be; $r.26. per oou- 
pic. :, Thi Collegiate impsi • will furi ?h: the . mu8Ìc, . ind. there will bo ¡ver<U.'uovelty;.^numbers. ,Tho - Coilegiate Mmpe. ie. one of the best orchestras In college.' cjr- 
cles .and ihu mùslc wlH';bè of the srkl'-'. attràcUve -'. novelty numbers; are .weing arranged to -be 
t-,on between,the daiices.- The" Cosmopolitan Club1. lH. com- Bed'pi:T«ch.,and:-PJ.tt.stuiIeD 
io.;.,cqme\frora'foreign'conntrlefl.' Half : of ;: the 'meeUnffS «je held ,'ln; Recróàtlonai^^lìàlli.'pf .-Jfàisaret Morriaon- Carnegie, College and the- other: bBlf.at.,Helnz;HouaeV..Unlver-; 
slty of 'Pittsburgh: -•Mr. Talkmltt, a: German.stndent,' 
la president of thls Clnb- tor the ensuing . year, apd \ hèv hopeh the 
ithU
As a mark of admiration to .a 
conquered -hut ; gallant opponent. Student Connell1 sent a ' letter of ‘congraiuiation- to:the Pitt Stüdont Council-express!!^, ^fheir'; 1apprecia­tion .df ihe. aportamaniike attitude' of- the. Pitt: students ..during ¦ the pitt-.Tech' game.- :< ;;During t|ie'\ ettmts , beiwee'n haiy^sf^t^XiPlii cbeejrlrig 8tand?: (Ofmèd 'àvIa^ô. J:ed 'MC’’ 'tod' the Pllt tvand, formed ai well executed I. T.” Tbe lMUid- also, played. "Dear.. Old Tech" and the atudents. gave several cheera'for toif' op-. ponentty ¦' •V.-v.--;. . ;Among other matters dlBjneed.bt at - the - Council ' meeting •" was : tho ‘ipüppet’’- Çonatltution. ' With ' the 
acceptMcepf.thlsagreement; '.'Pup- put will peas under lhe juriidic-
other non«Uiletle activities <A->t£e
1ST ACTIVITIES 
ASSEMBLY FOR 
PLEBES TODAY
Big Men on Campus Will 
¦ Give Frosh Cope on Extra 
Curncular Work
ALL FIRST YEAR MEN 
ARTS THEATRE 11:30
Student Council to Sponsor 
Assembly Annually..as 
Guide For New Men
: Plebes Who desire to entor n Forth while ócUyity-ore; offered an 
‘Xcelleat opportunity by. the Tar* an buslness'staff, A largò 'number of recTuita are needed to work on Ute staff and prepare for tbe high- iBltlohs .which must be .filled
' Tho -opportunities for Àrsi. year, 
en to secure exocullve positions a "tho staff arò' excellent' Tho Plebee must supply matorlal to ro- place the outgoing staffe of upper- cl'aBsmen and those who start out early, in their first 'year hold a de oided advantago and .are bound to each a yatùàble poBt' Ifthoy por- slat In tholr efforts.
The Tartan is agata] offering IU inual bid for helpers. Plebes who posBéss a desire to secure net Ivo xperlence. anil become better known about - the campus' can se­cure a good stort by applying for work on' et&ff. early. All those In­terested should se£ Shelby McMH- ir James Slohort at the Tartan offico. Room 12 Industries .where 
can " secure alì aocess&ry do- tails. . ’
I first ywlU a
SCIENCE STAG DATE 
SET FOR JANUARY 15
Keen Competition is,Expected 
For Best Cías* Stunt Cup
leiice Stag: vfanuary. 15, 1927 la the announc date' for- the Sclonce School Stag of this - year,/The Carnegie. Hand: hook carrloB'lhls date as Docember 11, 1926,; but it was believed advis­
able to move the date aiiead in or­der not to conflict' wlth the many PV of tho fraternity rushing
Tbe names of the members on the committee Jtave not yet been announced, but F. Swaile, the chair- .n. Teporte that e^ch.closs of scl- :e mon has a sub-committee 
rd at work on a class stunt. The' Junior dees won the cup for tho best stunt at last year’s-party, and hlB year the Seniors have appoint- :d the same meu to the committee in -class stunt and are hopeful of 'epeating their success of last year. The Junior, . Sophomore, and Fresh-- n 'claeses.' however', promise im some clever competition'. The .Continued on .'Page Three)
HOLO FIRST Y. W. C. A./MEETING NEXT MONDAYAT INN CLUB ROOM:
The.flrst' Y. W.VC. A.-meeting of the-year wilt be held on Monday, November .8, ¡from 12:80 to lr20 ini the; .Faculty Club Room In Carnegie Inn: .The Cabinet, finding that the meetlng-ttme last'year, 4:30, was jopulnr and, inconvenient,' select- tlils time as the moBt conveiii- : time- for the majority of gl'rls the campus, They have aiso de- elded- to hold . raeetliige twice eacli
break luto the lunch line'and tako Ir trays .as quickly as ...possible,, that they may be finished- be- 
fore the speaker is introduced. .that the meetings may. have vdrlet'y;and Interest, the Cabi- lests,. that Uie girls them- mggest speakers’and pro-
^EVENING ’BRIDGÉ PARTY”. WILL BE HELD ATCARNEGIE -INN NOV. 17
garet- ' Morrison ‘ AIumnl'JAefocla- tlon calendar^ .will be héld.'at the Carnegie .Inr^ vWoodlawn^ayenue. on Wednesday, November 17, at èight' O’clock.V The ^committee -'Ip ;e or thls. affaif :ie headed- by. Irene 9ùl&n:Harna^:''Ó0,'as ;Ch'alr^ ^Worjilng ¦ HaraacùJ^ó,":càldwèli;'^ffpl^?.^ 
',Co'to:.'’D^dà,^'i'ÌÓ;S'tìértha Steiner,- ‘11; Mary -Egge' Ewarte,' 
'21, and Lydia Ratei' GlocW. • The;eyeiUoÈ,hridge\Ìastiv wàS;èic^Hon^y';wèll’éi^nded; tot'e.6eerlf^we;<^'tdiavean;Vcve^^^ /iaiircòri.Von^ :•jthtai' iyeàrJ';’ (?Tteì*niètt are*lnvlled-io¦ this affair, -so plesso bring^thom ^'ong^iV.:;-':-'Send in your checka and reuWa- ona early' to. Jane Caldwell. Har-^
bnrghVP».Tbe price is $2.001 per
Select Webster Hall 
For Sophomore Hop
Sophs* Presidents Choose 
Committee Members For 
Annual Affair .
TARTANS WIN 
THRILLER AT 
DETROIT, 7-0
Letzelter Smashes Over for 
Deciding Touchdown in 
V Third Quarter
CARNEGIE HANDI- 
V CAPPED BY MUD
Titans; Greatly Outclassed, 
Aided by Wet Field in. 
Holding Plaid
Caipneglo has added another vie- pry. to her already Impressive ree­l'd, ¦ vanquishing' the Detroit Uni­versity cloven lost, Saturday att,er- • noon ln the automobile .city-by a 7-0. Bcoro. ' Tbe .'magnitude of tho 
score /alls to Bhow '-tho .evident superiority: displayed . by Coach Steffen’s' lads throughout the: fray. Tlrno :niid 'Urne again,- the .doughty Tartans workod the ball to . O10 shadow of the Tlten goal llne only'
FRIDAY, N O V . 19
Webster Hall, has been selected 
by the Sophomore. Hop.committee us. the .place for the annual Soph dance -this year.- V The. dote has been definitely set for Friday, No*, einber 19.‘
The Soph Hop Is the,big event, a' the,: yeat .for 'every. Qjpbotnore. Limited to gtophbmoroB ,and uppeV olcLBBmen. tho Humble Plebe being strictly, excluded, It'always proves most enjoyable' to-, those', who - at­
tend. ThlB.year a particularly peppy commit tee Is planning a va* riety of surprise features;, promis­ing to make their dance the most original; ond.\totally' new of - all .Soph, Hops.,’ Lusti year, the Hop-was held in the ballroom of tho Hotel Schen­ley. Wiedemeyer's -Band, proba­bly 'the most fumoua dance orchek. tra in • tho East furnished , tho m\tsic(^nd:-th$ ';d6co'ratlona,,eape- claliy'the.llghUng^effectflwerethe mo^t'flamplouBihat,liadi;eyer,i>aen'. 
attempted for. the affair. .Ralph, Hltchcook; a member of Beta'.Theta PI . Bbcial .fraternity, and of Drulds. sciphomoro'.honor;. ary/.la chairnjan- (if the 'dahce. ' 'Tbel 
following' committee' has' been se­lected by .the presidents of •; the- Sophomore .class: Marjorie .Moore, Miriam .-Portno, Gladys Connor, T. P. Pratt. 'J. O. Stauffer. R. Wilaon., P. Altiranti’vH. White,' and-. Ri Coffee.Worir;l9 already well iitider, Way. 
Althonfeb' no orchestra' has bee^ definitely. decided upon as yet, sevoral' very good' dance. orches­tras asunder consideration and seleattpn',v'(t' la ¦ promised,. will- be tho yery. beBt in .Pittsburgh.'•..
i curious combination
STUDENT DIRECTORIES 
APPEAR IN TWO WEEKS
'date, house'and event.for. each of the thirteen days..of the ^Rushing period; In' thie way all the raehe'ea 
keep-a; record 'of. thelr-iengagemente_ during-, the. eea-
- Although it has been tbe itrac- tico^’of some of ithe' fraternities to issue these calendars for tfieir own evonta, thi« Is, the'-first', time 6uch program has beetf’ printed -in a campus publication.'The novel addition will'make tie Directory of unusual yalue to fresh-
' All the - material for the. ibeok.. has 
been .proof read and 'ls now -be.lng printed/^. If the binding is. .complet­ed on scheduled time the sale- will begin .two weeks from tolay. The 'will be fifty cents - for each
Numerous requests have been ade for . an4 earlier -release- date ie- to‘ the growing' 'necea.stty for, 
this ..Invaluable pocket ccimpeinlon. The'-.reason for the alight'delay* lies In the fact that this'year tbe book will have fconaiderable additional, material/..' V The 'names, of the members of. 1. honorary and . social fraternities :¦ ".Contlmied ;on, Page .Three) : V,
of; circumstances i pectlve" touchdown. ' Once it .would be va penalty, then agrilnVa fast. PlAld back Rilpped and (ell In the ankle-doopmiid^lthft;8ure. touch- 
dow.a ahead'-whàt. with th^.- Blimy. btitl .ooBlng out - of 'thelr' -eager grasps at-.opportune moments, tbe Sklboa ; were exerted-; to Iho limit to down thelr flghtlÉg opponents
Tiioidnly score of tho gamo cama,. in tho mlddlo of the thlrd-quarter after • a brilliant consistent drive from' the Carnoglo 40-yard; line. FV)liowing: an exchange of pt^ats. l<et£olter gainod alk'. yards. at : left tackle. -Motori ptokéd up Ave;more nt -rlght ond for.o ilrBt-down oo .' Doiroit'a iO-yard llno. Docohoo . tore òff a pretty nin around-right end, good for^O.yardB^nndl.ahotb- er firat down,: Thé giant Tiuin lino- had' begun to wilL ' l^etzelter tore, through for teia'/thon aB'aln for'-lC yards more (òr a.flrst down on'.Do-. 
iroit'B . 10-yard •. line. =',Méfòrt flloehod. .through,, to the,' twcf-yard.' piarle and- Lolzeltor cmled lt over the last barrier óii his seccrad; at­tempt.. for. ai touchdo\vn. -.Witli, boiiohoe' holding ,thé . ball, Leuol- 
ler’s place-hick for tliè extra point ' was perfooLj; ; ¦ :V- ' ^ •¦;'t)08plte v, thp^ sllppeo’- .fleid; the SkiboBÌ^ned rraucfi':móf^'. gróund • than their oppoaonts. '- Tlie , Tar­tans ruehed the ball for;a':t0tal of 241 .yards as compared to C4 yaTda for the Tltima, -white In'.the .rnat- t^r of flrat,:dWDS,: ,tho^advo^ 
was :.ftinoT- all' ln^. favor 'of''.thè ;vic-. tors by 'a:lS to 4 margin.;.:’.:.' 'The first Éiilf wont scóreieBS, nl-;. though',Cnrnegie’s .staunch- defense and lts oQc^ional.flàehefl ot'knowii .¦ (Continued on Paiÿ Three.) ,•
PURSE CONTAINING ARTICLES.OF VALUE TAKEN FROM- ROOM 24!
• - Taken- ¦ ¦. The person; who took the 'brown leathor purso'from the desk. in Room : 24Ì,:'.'Admlulatratlon:BulÌd- Ing.-is welcome-, to ... the^-money' Which- . w00':.inv It, hat' the owher:: would'. very much, appreciate hav- InR the .purae,; the' keys,' and, the . other-i ot, . nd
Please leave them wlth-or eenid. Uienv to either - Director. ConneUey or -.-Mr. Jordan, in, the Recelylne
Clef Club Holds Dance 
In Union This Briday
, The.'Carnegie’ Clef Club Will botf their' big.- annual ' celebration this. Friday night' in', ttie' Unión. -. The • 
iiffalr Is to, be an Informal .ball,'.be'/ tween the.höure of.sloe' and twelve P. in'. V.-'!'..-, !V:'-.' The Clef Club is. tho honoraryt. 
musical fraUrnlty - of’oar..cáiripu8-; It:chooses., men studentesco have-:;': ián most activo .along;'^musical- - ?os And.-muslcal activities. . The. :tlvo chapter ie ,compóaéd ‘ of l5
The. Clot Club /.Dance ;, will ’ ¦ ún-< doubtedly be-; '&.¦ peppy;. Affair, '.as'. - Siuinp hai promised ¦ tò '.-¿ave i a'' dance band cóinposed/of .t)ié be6t r muàfctRnsv in- •Pitts'burçhl’. ayenlng ^irbe a v whirl - of- music,:-.\iaughter'. iav!z,.:-’-^;gayety^ , Charleston,. , -Blacic': ^Bottom, etc; •• V'-one -. /s v' iavlted;to attentf i. gay event. Th« ; price . of, ad- . mission lsrthe. nominal fe<of ,$1;50\. '
“Development of Newspaper Büsi- 
ness” Topic of Address by Yost
Mr. Cliarles :.'Yoat,.! advertising róanagerlfortheiPittsburgh: Ctózettè: Tii¿es : gare;,¿ñ iD^^aU^- t^k. on;
'wenty-nv^^Yearfi.V’V^atr.a^ recent 
mieètliig..oji.Lhé^tu<!ent;. Brelich „ol
mensely: -interesting : and . everyone: present «on tmpiruod with the siLàxLsô»' - tÄatt^!;iiMV4»'^-1i^ tihroncii t" about W the newipaper bntlness. aa. portrayed by-the Weaker; k v:1. - More efflclent - muiageinent, ao- 
cordlng to Mr.' Yoflt, has been ln-
t^ MW«wi»7*I^ir*m«h°LrT
has been inti«4tt<Md; awlfUr
. v'' * " \ > V
means, o£\, collectingf and ...transmit- . 
tl^fnew^;Íiáve'''^énvdo'vis^¡r-'^!ánd' corporate; control, has- ;eupomded , 
indlvldual-owilershlp.'.'’Air.ot^hese ivs''.been;.addrf^ltlün.-'the'/laat ienty-flve'year£ ^- lír¿- Yoat : BJBO^j»lnted :.¿'ut‘ thatT: - 
whoreis the policies of .a ìiawapa^-. i*r »m í<irinfrl> dkt^rmlnnl by thf «Hlltor thf> are now made ap largely hy a syndicat« ‘whloh^aends It*» material tn all pans ot the country ^News la collected hy press ' affcnci^ Ud then distributed tn the varions newspapers vhare the

---------------------------------------------------

A Part idS Your 
Edncafiirn
;stabllsh, a bank t you valuable, exper handling of finance
National Bank will glvi splendid start.
' .Como In and talk It «
Fitzsimmons
Restaurant
120 OAKLAND AVE.
Special Meals'and 
Bâtes to Students
SIsor all’s Tea Room
'- 3710.FORBES STREET 
TRY OUR 35c LUNCH 
Special Meals and Ratos for Students.
Special made French Pas- with fraternity. letters
CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our RefreshmentEn- 
tertainment is most desir- • 
. able for Fraternity arid 
all other School 'Affairs, 
experience ' will convince 
' Small' orders-, receive the 
¿¿me careful attention, as 
extravagant
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingAND FORBE! 
nere Mondays day Evenings. Advi
Q. Â. MICHEL 
andCmPÂM
DiQtrlbutore
. DEVOE fi REYNOLDS
ARTISTS' MATERIALS 
640 SMITHFIELÓ STREET ;
First Church of Christ, 
.ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue Sunday, XI A. M. and 8 P. M. Wednesday. 0'P. M. . Sunday School,-'21A. . Si: i
CRAIG
RESTÂURÂSÜT
412 SOÜTH CRAIG STREET
Try Our 
Regular Dinners 
40c and 50c
Cliff Restaurant
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Near Forbes 
Try our Special Lunches—40c Special' Rates To Students
irtaa #«ii ©nmpan«
Is prepared to furnish FORMAL WEAR which meets 
the. most exaottng demands.
Come In—Let Us Convince you.
60024-4 JENKINS ARCADE - 
.Day, Grant 2604—Phone—-Nlflht, Lafayette 4791-R
1 THE CLYDE
j 625 CLYDE STREET . ’ • . . Telephone Mayflov
t SUPERIOR TABLE BOARD (Single meals or by tho v 1 At Surprisingly Moderate Prices. • • ,I Private Tables : ' Genuine HomeJ. Fresh Fruits and. Vegetables In Season.
Elliott’s Two Stores 
Headquarters 
For Practical Gift Things
Both our Stores are treasure cheats of useful oift articles— many of them entertaining in their usefulness. ,
.. Eye Glasses
LOOK! LOOK!
SCHENLEY HAND LAUNDRY
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET' 
Near Forbea Street 
All kinds ojC washing, Includ­ing Ladies’ Wear, done by-hand.Buttons aewed ... on . without charge.- -. Work guaranteed satisfactory. Prices reasonable.
SHOE SHINING PARLOR
S£..Field Glasses .I Barometers
' Microscope«. Everythlng' Optlcal
All kinds'of shoes cleaned, dyed and charked.
Branch at Shadyatde Hand
6514 Walnut ^Street
•• Engineers’- Supplies ArcHItects'Supplles Drawing Materials ... .Cameras, and SuppliesTO CARNEGIE
Projector* 1 - Film Developing * / - Artists’ MaterialsSTUDENTS
lliotí
You are cordially Invited to 
visit LOEWS A.L DINE THEATER, ' Pltteburgh’a 
Greatest. E ntertalnment; 
there la a . SPECIAL CAR­
NEGIE STUOENTS’ TICKET 
for .you at the Tartan Office 
;.whlch'.eritlt|«eyou->6,^ 
per. cent discount on-.MATI-.- 
.'NEE TICKETS—aOc tlcliét*. 
26c. Good dally/ until :6 P. •M.ViSsturdayeMlucled.;'
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
, s Men % $6 00—Cold* (Jrey.?Women*6i .$6*60mGolor&:- Blue, Lilac,' Green and
Aufhammcr and Evans‘ ’ eioffPlrtrN B,DMID
ALUMNI PAGE
Hotel Movement to 
Interest Alumni
Intercollegiate Hotels to be 
Established in Forty 
Leading Cities
C. I. T. FAVORS PLAN
.Wlndemere, Chicago imln Franklin, Philadelphia; Wll- rd. Washington;. Radlson, Minne- àpolls^ Blltmore, Los .'Angeles; Palace. San Francisco; - Olymplc,
lew. idea was recently intro­
duced Into collego and university 
circles by a movement being, con­
ducted by a number of alumni as­
sociations for the establishment of 
Intercollegiate alumni hotels in 
pome of our largest cities in Amer­
ica. Such hotels Would be so con­
ducted as to oiler the best possible 
service, convenience, and comfort 
to college men. Copies of his own 
alumni magazine end a list of hie 
own colloge alumni living in the 
immediate vicinity of .the particu­
lar hotel at which he is stopping 
will create for the alumnuB who 
lakes advantage of such an ar­
rangement an alumni atmosphere 
which he should llnd very pleasant 
The patronizing of intercollegiate 
hotels by a)u mol would )? do way 
interfere with the local university 
clubs. Their membership Is exclu­
sive, while tbe intercollegiate ho­
tels provide for the transient alum­
nus, the man w]
I THE LADDER »f*¦ ¦—-! To theN. Y.U. Game?
Carl E. Landefeld of Erie, Pa., a 
graduate' of tbe Department oi 
Architecture,. College of Fine Arts, 
has been availed one of the most 
distinguished prizes obtainable by 
the younger 
tectum! ‘profession, namely, the 
Parle Prize in Architect 
is offered annually by the Society 
t Beaux Arts Architects lu Ne 
ork. The prize' Is in the form,of cholai'sbip - valued at ?3,000. •hich Includes two years of stuc broad. Competition for this pri;; conducted on a national basin and Is opon to any architect under
i the
t the <
scond
> determln appolnirchltec U-ts Soclcty. This ittempt of Lande- oveted prize. Last woy through the
field to win the c •or ho won hi6 ellmlnarlcs to bee te ilnul candidates. ThiB year, iwever, Landsfleld succeeded in Inning what Is perbapB the high it' distinction possible among >ung men in the architectural field. Mr. Landofleld deserves « 
ability
> the.Nev- I no small ini. Tbe special9 'been secured for splendid: opportun­ity for "old grada" not only .to at-id the; game and back the' team, but to spend a few days in the 
For the benefit of thoso not. up to this time, aer- isldered going to New York for the game, the special 111 leave Pittsburgh on Fri­day. night at 9:30 p. m., from the1 
Pennsylvania Station, arriving in New York at 7:45 a. m., Saturday 
nlng. Tbe train will hot leave New York to return home-untll 8:30 p. m.; on Sunday evening,10 have attended the gnme.on Saturday plenty of op-
i managers of all. giatc Alumni Hoters Hill 
1th Individual alumni t<
nuiwho Js in ¡socfeUone°ai >wn for only a few hours.
The plan, as outlined above, hi 
been tried in California, and hi 
found to be very successfi 
• eminent university leade 
3. wost have endorsed the plan 
i endeavor to establish a na 
h'lde system of alumni hotels 
idea originally grew out oi 
was tell to be a deflnlte need.
the full- dll assist in the local alumni 
the development
> the ]f their business, And It ni i travel about the country a j eal. The Idea of being able t 
2 a hotel where' he will be ounded by a cortain amount of allege, atmosphere 'should prove ppeallng (to an alumnus In a trauge town over night. The com­
pletion Of sucli an arrangement awaits further cooperation from 
»ciatlons of local colleges' and universities. Certain hotels-have already been designat­ed .as possible factors in' the devel- 
i plan. Tho most Important are:
Roosevelt. New York City; Wal- Tia, New York City; Cop-.r. Pla¡, Chi-
StnlClmDetroit; Multnomah, Portland, ; Sacramento, Sacramento; California, Fresno; Lincoln. Lin­coln, N'ebr.; Oakland, Oakland, Calif.; Lycoming, Williamsport, int Royal, Montreal; King
; Bethlehem, .Bethlehem, P, ley, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Sa St. Paul; Savannah, Savi
ird Indejwill I
of the names of all tlu :sldcnt. alumni of all the partici patlng' institutions, This will be o: ipeclal benefit to traveline alumn in locating classmates and friendsThe <lblicatlons of all the Inslltutloi cted . with such an arrang will he on file àt each. Inti collegiate Alumni Hotel. Reservation cards will be ava >le at the clerk's desk In each de lgnalèd hotel and at the alum »liege or unlveralt These, reservation cards , wilt sot'
Mayflower 7213 
MEN’S WEAR
FLOYD H. JACOBS
38M!£ FORBES STREET 
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.
.^Around the Corner from 
Forbes field”
Let’s All Go To The
TECH
Barber Shop
. For Our Hair Cuts 
CRAIG- AND 
FORBES
Clan Directory
BALTIMORE ^
^ h BOSTON - n ^ 6
^BUFFALO H7, • Herbert L Mocrebfeldc
^ CANTO NI OBIO ^
CHARLESTON, W. VA. 
fllte, ¿M/CaplW Strett.- . CHICAGO -Soulh '
CINCINNATI
> . 60 ’•• ^ CLEVELAND ^
COLUMBUS. OHIO ^
' KCOi^E^1<pjlli 270
DETBOIT ''
«eie •'WgftdwBTd Str«t.
GOLDEN GATE. CAJJF.
'^A^0BORfC ^
n HUNTINGTON/W.^VA. ^ 
'jOHNSTOWN^PA'. ^ 
MONONCAIIELA VALLJEY ^ 
MILWAUkEE,' WIS.
t m PITTSByRCHB8ae
196OGIEGDYM.iCIYCtC C
WASHINGTON. D. C.^ 
TOIWGSTOWN. OHIO
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER . MAKE 
' OF PORTABLE
*;Buddy” Overend Predicts 
Carnegie Will be Well 
Represented
KILTIE BAND TO GO
From all present Jnd >ocial train which w 
dent Carnegie rooters game, will coutt
portunity to celebrate.i look i sightsbe train is due back in Pittsburgh irly Monday morning,, at about 30 a. m.
¦'The..special rates' which hay< ?en secured make it!possible t< take the trip for the nominal sum $15.62. The Philadelphia Clan is
•¦The Pittsburgh-Poi»t Studio will 
broadcast the, following games over KDKA:
November 11. Carnegie and Jun­iata at Forbe» Field; November 20, Carnegie and >Veet Virginia 'Uni­versity at Forbes Field; November 27, x Carnegie and Notre Dame at Forbes Field;;
Tune In and hear the old familiar cheors. .several new ones; the old ngs played by the Kiltie. Band id get Into that old Carnegie 
Spirit once again.
Now Pepy’s wife. ‘ being a con­scientious housekeeper, was unu- ble to live os fashionably as this. She had to get up at 2:00 a. m. on ivashdays, and the good Samuel >ad to' have his meals, and bis vhlte silk stockings . had to bo Inrnod for Sunday wear, so that te might go to (h'urch all'spick md span in his s^'ort cloak ("long :loalcs 'being now quite out”) and neets his mistresd after the ser- non. But if plump Ei.zabetb, bis rife, hid no time Tor tho delights of society, Samuel had. True.
up'brlnglng,lire"ble«Charles. But
indalized < roughttbe
We s3 him weakening by dei
• chü
. fall to takeplan.ThePhiladelphia will bo $3.24 s may be had for 76c extra, -vatlons from Philadelphia- be made ibrough G. L. TJ1- brook, care Herman Hoopes, Inc., 152C Real Estate Building, Pblladel- Alumni Jiving near Pitts­burgh should get In touch with Buddy Overend at the Athletic Ot;rnegle Tech; concerning the game, and oil others should communicate with W, ] Nixon, Graduate- Manager of Ne' York University..;
dinner has been planned e: peclally for the alumni, after the The team ahlied. Hoi‘ chaiIhe boys who 'beat Pitt this the Kiltie Band is going tc 
game, and there will be a . lively
THE MODERN LIBRARY
THE PIARY OF SAMUEL. PEPYS
ittlng, it Is the Immortal Diary f Samuel Pepys, M. A., F. R. S. The truly reverent will not read Ini except In a volume at least 
)0 years old. chubby and brown, te leaves withered and well fdxed, le cover falling to pieces.. And ley are careful to open the book ily bn dark, gusty1 nights when
SCHENLEV THEATER <
Continuation of the policy of ex­cellent motion pictures and stage ntertalnment will be noted in the lne-up of attractions booked this veok for tbe Schenley , Theater, Forbes street. Oakland .district. Monday and Tuesday,. November 1 and 2, brings Rod La Rocque in his successful plctuiizetlon of Edna Ferber's novel, “Qigola." The fea- ttractlon .Wednesday ay; November 3 and-4, wiir 
cross the Paclflc,*’Blue and. a aplendld 
and Saturday, ..^Jovembers-5 and 6, will bring Renee Adoree and lalph Graves in “Blarney,” a.com- tly drama ot fast action and in­terest On-the stage throughout the i his.'I 
-1th a -brlllli 
ram. Monday- and Tuesday-, No- smber 8 and 9, will bring Leatrjci Joy in "The Clinging Vlne>.
back,^vith readinthey settle few miiiutesfind themselves:
For Pepys revealed not’only^hlni- ¦elf, but the England, and paiticu- arly "the .London, in which he lived—a London of nanow, crook-
eople •
by hand, ig Is typewi'verycollege I
combined. Come ii the latest model, last .word. In'.portable, type- yvrlter«.. .Standard .four-row
day than all * lortnbloa and se«-
tiyboai
big
wide
ichlmtriable. Price
COMPANY .
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
: Atlantic 034¿ .
•by night with vaj and Mohocks .who ' we slitting nosos and bclaU a feeble Watchmen; a Li 
hose, gaudiest show was beheading (of, for»than) often:rere punishable by death), fhose greatest, prfde waa .its.vice;Loudon ptague>ridden and pleae- re mad; a London of fops, gulls, haves, courtezans, tradesmen; no- and the wretchedest beggars>rld.
¦/¡fiiy. father satd—
. -v. - ^John Honcodc.is a great name;. :. . Life lauiwnw u’ptaœaliy mliiptniiblt-^
Tbdi tvntf dt Ugit, hc.wtu ngÄ/. .
This was the fine wicked time 
when corseted beaux wore' satin and postured on high, red heels— when Ladles of QuaJlty, patched and painted and smeafed with powj der, simpered behind their lacy 
fans,, and.'nefe.r blushed 'bn auy.\ ac: count. 3!hen wias Wit esaited'as 
the greatest of virtues! in an age which ¿corned virtue; then were all' dull fellows told to. gtay .at home! for.stupidity was unforgiva­ble, and yawns -were reserved for
which the really competent among, society never repaired .until dawn.There,. after a fatiguing game'-of cards, would Milady retire.(haying allowed.' a. . good . dose of ashes and gravel for; her. complex-' ion),to- "sleep’ until aftertioon. •
„Waking'-with 
would "unglye h
receiving caUers.Vrlee to;.have. her jy^r headdress repaired . and ^decked .Selofctedl
He wbo, in his sturdy : 
had permitted himself.but one taxation, on the- (Sabbath—that taling his -boy with a rope’s —fell, gradually into- lamenti Hctices."This day. began to wear bucl
me. I vow not to drink any m the whole'week....”“Lord’d Day—My bead not \ well by reason of last night's dr. Ing, which Is my great folly.. There are other revelations, I
shallow
—some of ' them quit But read the book. ") few others as engagini
THEATRICAL TIPS
STANLEY-ROW
. . Wednesday and Thursday: November 3 and 4 v
“THE WISE GUY”
MARY ASTOR 
JAMES KIRKWOOD
LANO-CLARK'S
STÜÄ.M©
.-Wednesday and Thursday November 3 and 4 ,
“PRINCE OF 
PILSEN”
AN IT A-STEWART .. 
GEORGE SIONEYFriday, November 6 ,
“the vmsm”
1 KENNETH HARLAN DbROTHY REVIER
Friday, and Saturday November.5,and 6
“SUBWAY
SADIE”
DOROTHY MACKAIL 
JACKiMULHALL
Saturday, November 6
“THE SAG MAN»'
JACKIE CCOGAN'
Monday and Tuesday - November S and 9
“THE BLACK 
PIRATE”
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS
“THE BLACK 
PIRATE” ;
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS . 
BILLIE DÓVE
Read the Film Forecast, Pittsburgh's only movie'magazine,. :
MANOR THEATRE
.Theal
i aliead
Squirrel Hill hi ng and. wonderful prograi >f them this coming week 
Wednesday, November 3 with "The irrlng Maryetty.:ind Jai
isformatioi
Klrk-
Ì good 0 h HarlaiFriday, Ki Dorothy Revler In- a most unusual picture “The Virgin” with a: great ig caat. Saturday, Jackie Coogan in his latest and funniest picture “The Rag Alan.” It will fee you laHgh it will make you , It Is truly great. Monday and isday, Douglas Fairbanks in his st picture -The Black. Pirate;” See Doug at hie.best, see.him cap- iperchantraan singlehanded,
with eacb chai
STRANO THEATRE
photoplays this coining week' lii'g; Wednesday -andr Thursday- with The-Prince .of; Plls.en”. • starring- Lnlta 'Stewart and George; Sidney the latter being the popular -etar of the Cohans and the Kellys. Friday- and Saturday. '‘Subway Sadle” with 
Mackaill as' the poor work- ins' girl with Paris aa her goal and Jack Muiball as the subway guard.
it- pictures of the year," don’t- fall to see iL Monday a'nd . Tuesday, Douglass' Fairbanks in '.his, latest: masterpiece “The Biack Pirate” with Billie Dove sup- porting him. Seeipoug as.the hard boiled ' buckaroo, .soe him.capture -a
with -Iaco. : Bfi four or flve. perhaps later, she. was % dreeaed ' and: Wady for-j dinner_ and/', talk' •• of . ' scandal. Then the Quodrille in' the prepos- terous geometrical' garden; ¦- tollbw- idVby. aupper and countless'of‘6ar. . unt11 ihe criés- òf thè i. ilghtin1g;ln tbë' sVKets; ài Ï. the .fact Itìiat it -'was .mori dtJme--iò'i(ò\tO'hé^'^
¦ with' each change of ' fef
LOEW’S ALDINE
.- Brooke Johns,'a,'; big-’-grinning' youngBter, featured for'_twò. ÿe'ars 
with tithe : -Zlegfleld .-follies, V will brlng.hls.'All-American'i Çollégiatis. to'.Lò0w-’9: AidÌlie^fills' week.1 as. thë;
Hardware Taints Electrical Supplies
OAKLAND HARDWARE CO. :
. 8600 FORBES.STREBT-'
elty mualcal act -entitled Ten 
Minutes To-Play. It Is.-aald thatJohns has assembled his musicians from: former football players, which Include stars.from Lafayette. 
Oklahoma. .University, Fordham, Californio,-Virginia, Princeton and 
tj.ofp.'-• Mary Picltford'a' newest picture Is "Sparrows” and will be shown 
aa' the-featiire’.screeii attiaction in Loew’e Aldlne, this week: It deals with tbe adventures of a band of young6tere on e baby farm. .While 
there is a little message Ini the picture,, as .there Is in all good pic­tures, "Sparrows” first c-f all 13 said to be entertainment and the sort of - entertainment that. Mary 
Pichford fans like. Mary is cast as'"Mama Mollle,” the little, girl who mothers the forlorn, children on tbe baby farm. She pilots them through many Adventures provid­ing. much - laughter, many -thrills 
and'not a: few .tears. The locale of “Sparrows” is In a swamp coun­try of a southern state.' Here on an island farm the little'scraps of humanity are kept >by nJ cruel keeper and his . wife. How they 
Anally, overcome .the • obstacles placed in their path and And their happier life makes up, a story that is very thrilling and-in­teresting.. Mary Plckford 1s sup­ported 4)y a splendid cast including of the most remarkable bands of little, children ever aasemblod in
Loew's Concert Orchestra, a Hal
Roach comedy, Organlogue, Top­
ics of the Day, and, latest News Film complete ' the program. .
SoSléngey Theater
First -Floor.and- Balcony—25c 
Menanlne-~36o 
HARRY.DAVIS, General Manager 
'Most Beautiful Neighborhood, Theater In Pittsburgh.'
WEDNESDAY -AND THURSDAY, NOVEMBER'S AND 4
“ACROSS THE PACIFIC”
Love and Thrills with 
MONTE . BLUE JANE WINTON . : MYRNA' LOY
FRIDAY AND -SATURDAY, NOVEMBER S AND 6
“BLARNEY”
ADDED ATTRACTIONALL WEEK
William Hollin’s 
Blue Ridge Orchestra
“THE CLINGING VINE”
ilEDY NEWS REELS NOVELTY FILMS
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL* 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATE8.!
•ulta and Overcoats 
•40, *48, »SO,
_ --------- - MSPECIAL APPOINTMENT = 
OUR STORE IS THE ]
NEXT. SHOWING—WM. PENN . HOTELr Pittsburgh .Ä. PENN •> *FRIOAY,,NOVEMBER1 5 .
The character of the suits'and 
overcoats tailored by Charter House - 
will earn your most sincere liking.
MORRIS’S

---------------------------------------------------

Course« of three-and elx mKer............. " v : Tho'. j*ily half
I brother of track clad In
lorifc courséerepeetlvely. Tho. iorig'e ' " oft .sotirsfl takes^only half au la .caliber of the.lndlvlduat,'c
'called the short t
so-called hfr-rrvan’a sport (probably bee I# great1 for the wind. • Man .after man ha*‘ dai way.bytl]e'more stinging blasts from-the .hill top a man'must have stamina (whatever that Is); ae
FOR N.Y. GAME 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Kick-off in. Yankee Stadium1 
2 at O’clock Saturday; 
Plenty of Good Seats
2 DAYS IN N. Y. CITY 
GOTHAM CLAN BUSY
before the pistol was flred. ' •:The'whole beauty of cross country lies In the magnificent Many i ' ‘tombera of the 1
. Coach Halferty. g {patti re of thte; hill .
p mert. But there la still another phase
SCORING RECORD TO DATE
F. G. Ttl. Pts
e8s-D--BM2 a
Beginners to Fire For Cup 
Offered By Major Taylor
The Rifle Range tinder the Mar» 
garot Mbrrieon Building has been extremely busy elDce Us . opening, the'firtt''week 6f October. Candi­
dates-haVe been practicing for the varsity. Plobe and Women’s teams AUhoush handicapped
id any person' In Bchool ' all familiar with: tbe use 
W will liaye a good cbanct
days/ Wednesdaye and' Fridays- foi beginners, and • Tuesdays '-ani ThliratfnyB for tie Rifle team an« '¦for '.''Mana&er.- Slw6adner ,.-o dne of ble'assistants’la on band ti render, advice and assistance at el times while the range Is open- A competition will-be held, be 
: ginning“' about - November 10, fo '^Pl^beB - and ' all olbe
r fired <
• 'Who1 hi f R. O . T. 
' This will consist of'10 siiota standing.and 10. shots kneel* . log,'and the winner win receive a ; cup donated try Major Taylor, the co&mondant of'tbe Cafn6gie R. O.
LEAVE THURSDAY
- Next Saturday* the..Yankee Sta­dium at New York will be the -of tbe game between two of the leading teams 'of the East, 
University and. Carne­gie Tech. A huge crowd is.. ex­pected to attend tble. the hardest game of the season for both teams.I New York’s record speaks for itBelf, with wins over Buch teams as' Al­legheny, West Virginia. Wesleyan, Tulane and' Rutgers,- all by..large scores. < Carnegie ban beaten Pitt 
and . Detroit .declalvely.>rûitid while' losing islvely that their equal of'the Presidents In every department of - tbe vgame. This, with W. & J’e. showing against Lafayette, on' Saturday. Bfam] Carnegie. as . the- most formidable
Both new - and old students should note that they can set- un* usual fountain pen service by call­ing'at thé branch' store of Singer Pen and Gift Shop, No. Forbes street, Sehenley Apai block,’ or'the Main Store In Ins' Arcade;
3&41
The New Tech Billiard Parlor
I «OS FORBES ST. (N«ar Cralfl)
• Teleplione Mayflower 972S
The Valet Shop
Gleaning Preaamg liyemgP. W. McCOY; M. '21 4620 FORBES STREET.We Call For and Deliver.
LOST
munlcate with Prof. Lelghou.-
nnants, pillows, banners, iv«ry student buys.. A big
Write for tre " ''Bradf«rd. & Company.' lni
BUTLER’S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES - 414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET We^Oellver.'All. Orders.-• .J^.O. BAKER, 'Manager ' :'Máíflbwer,<7644
Oakland 
Savings S Trust 
Company
: Member Sederai 
: ; Reserve System
"The Oakland Bank"
Capital-----$300,000 00
Sürîpîüs r-: - -$300,000.00 
teïi Deposits Over
Carnegie to Meet 
N. Y. U. Saturday
Yankee Stadium to be-Scene 
of Game-With Toughest 
Foe to Date
the start of the Carnegie Tech hol­iday in New' York. Friday night;Special, carrying two 
hundred, members ; of the. student' and alumni bodies, will leave Pitts- trgh for the. eaeterh metropolis, tie train 1b scheduled to leave'at. 30 and Is due at ite ..destination nyo' G2 Saturday morning.
The game with .New York Uni­versity promises 'to lie one'of the 
finest on-the Tartan schedule this eting with N. Y. U. and the eastern .team has d a very successful season thus ; laeurlag an Interesting tauglft xt Saturday. The game will be played In the Yankee Stadium, ’ithi the klck-olf timed - for two clock. Mr.' A. B. Nixon, graduate ianager of New York University, its announced that-an- abundance of fine seats>re available at from .60 to §3.00. Ail . holders of stu­dent tickets should take .notice, in he following change from the pro- iedure used previously this season. The iN.o. 6 coupon, .with one dollar, vili be accepted in New York for. idmisslòn to the reserved Carnegie stands. No exchange will bei made bere, but' the student 'book coupon ill be recognized in New York. , 
“Bu^dy" Qverepd, graduate .man­ger, has requested that all per- sns lalerested in making the New ork trip, cair at hlsolflce for de- illed information and the purchase t railroad! tlcketB.;, . The., special train will' Include four pullman and sevéral standard
. New . York :; ’thlc
. The Tartans naturally want to Vlu this Kame. for. to do so'would bring them national: prominence, and would serve in a large measure to eradicate the;memory of their defeat at Johhat'own. Unques­tionably tite dope favorsNew York; but the dope also favored Demp­sey, and by far larger odds. The Sklbos are In... good shape now, ready to meet, the supreme test of the. season,, and it Is quite possi­ble that they may come out of this game. on the long end of the f The Steffen, offenses . has been found difficult 'enough to solve - by teams who face it every year, there is agood chance that Mee­han's. outfit may be.- completely baffled by.it, - ....The .team will’ leave Thursday night, and will work out in Yojrk on Friday. It ls thought that some sort-of entertainment wl provided for those;.who-'remain, over-Saturday ptght. %.perh'a]
Ing. . - • ¦ ;•' From tbe, number of.tlckets al­
ready sold for. the Special ; train, it is apparent that .a large crowd of students and alumni, wlll.be up there rooting for the team. The Special' wlll;leave.-Piltsburgli on Friday night.' and' wilLreturh oh S'unday ifightj allowing-' a day and half in which to see the . town'.
STUDENT DIRECTORIES V'. APPEAR: IN -TWO WEEKS
- .(Continued From-'-Page One) 
will be Included, together- wlthftA directory of dormitories' and frater- i. The‘name of every, student withV.his or,;her HttsburgHv^and; home-.address,' telephone :numti«r,' course and year, of.tgraduatlon .will furnish the' -mala .part of the mar terlal for the issue.The'elzes of the book is similar to that, of! the ¿Handbook, and.' tho type of binding-:' corresponds . al­though .the quality is, not the same.' \ An attractive view - of the. campus has.- teen prepared;, by one 'of the leading Illustrators in> the college; to serve a&'a- covorpaga. '.. Through1 phenomenal growth this book' now in itathir^year, is rapid­ly-taking, its place ¿mong the most .useful of!',tho cactipu^ publications. The number secured/is limited so all persons desifihg a copy Should lurchass one. on the opening .day. »f'the', saie;)-':''^'::
: (C0nUnued' F^m;Page-Öno) y\
Scarab E
Wednë^ay.-NbvëttliertSrd,1: Front
romon’s-A'tbleÜbVCoürfcii:^-.
and Y W C A.,Cabinet/ *, ‘,:;a:00::iC^rneßie^.Wp'mteiirs-.?Musi- 
c'àl'piu^VOfflcb^:an^Mo^^{Boardv Alpha,
a:20ti^^M;2c:xO>üFçSâKmen. .^^áSy.^^vtójíef''.4th; ^12:30*:Ik>aV:HaÍl¿:^v^tLf;-:: Ï;,v" '-'V"'î2:40:tactiÎH;iBMl^ .' : "r 12:G,a.^'eïcif'Hall. - - :
TRAIN LEAVES
$15.82 Round Trip Fare 
With Pullman Rate at 
$9.00 or $7.20
Only three da:
oacbe», and' It 1) the It loteicerned If the.Carne­
gie group as a unit ,takea advant­age of this accommodation. The n will lay over In New York Sunday night, leaving there at 8:30 and. arriving in -PlttsburgH Monday morning^ 7:30. This per- of two full days' In New York aucTthe special rates-; granted.- by ihe Pennsylvania . '.Ballroad^make- the trlp particularly attractive. A round-trip fare of $15.82, or about hail the regular fare, has. . been |1UQg, given the school for the football1
mighty Plaid football drive toward ree ley . humbled thè husky
gained about 280 yards -field, and..the: i
:hlne huràled-another gap In It* n tho Eastern gridiron map .when Iverelty of Dstrolt.........................*
Ith all due respetmargin of - victory should .hsvo . fci gained about 280 yards to thel playing--field, and..the: penaltj'c
team that held the Army 'scoreless
\0>«clj.rblggo^ . ;..Tt».' Tartans its* 60 but-the condition of the ait kout by'the . ôfflcIalB prevented
After a heclic week in t rersity gridders remai East. 'They will go into .zUniversity gridders remain- L .They.............-onderful
Ith a' kee^ desire to upset thi
collegiate football realm, the New -York >e of -the -few undefeated .teams la the Saturday’s game against Carnegie with.
Many studeiit leaves-Pitt..... .........—, - „--------------- . .ire*Information« In rcgard -to thla trip appears on the front, page of s Issue. All-the-students, that can-possibly make the .trip should so- and - help, the .Plaid administer to Meehan's, men one real lacing.
The play ot Tony Sweiet In the- V. & J., Pllt and Detroit games if of the outstanding features of tbe Carnegie football Bea- On tbe freshman team of last season, Sweet-dld not-ployregularly the -W. & But hla i
tosltion
>rk since tpable c
i blocked try for a placement goal by tho
ndicapped by t . for a victory > Stadluiand Letzelter have
ind is working liard.
s called off. Tl j.Dykenmn was 3 keep Its record intact. .
n their Eastern jaunt. If we can’t 1 t be thero lo spirit. - Let's beat N. Y.
PIGSKIN
PICKUPS
The gridiron •game, obedient pup­
il of the critic and dopester all 
iason, miscarried badly, last Sat- 
•day! Dragged id the dust Is. W. 
& J.. Forlorn is the fate of Mlchl- 
;an. Passe is the'; spotless record 
i West Virginia, Pathetic Is the 
downfall of Cornell. While above 
veBtlge of ruin unscathed In 
.rek of upsets-.stands the.Vlcn 
if New York- University- wait; 
nenaclngly for tbe Plaid wave 
which will, roll out on the Yankoe 
Stadium thiB week-end. ' . .
r downpour — -Quagmire 
¿ijdtron—rfllppery- ball — niedleval 
driving attáck—plucky opposition- 
—penalties galore—a d,espereté 
ichdown — i.he • extra 
'point—seven to nothing—the fight-
line doll) birth, or $7.20 ior 'an upper The railroad and Pullman tickets'are-available and ready for iale ln'-the-graduate', manager's , of-, icé In the ' gymnasium biiUdlng
A statement from the New. York Alumni' Clan, through their repre- sfentatlve; Mr. F. M. McClelland', reads that "some activity Is' being planned for the edification and amusement of the Carnegie, visitors after the game,” - The Clan has beeu earnestly endeavoring to put over. Its end ot tbe, responsibility 
for lhe trlp, and there is no doubt, but that those'who go to. New York will find plenty, of .entertainment during lhelr. two-day visit
doubt, as to the ultimate Plaid barely, missed In the- second - period when Cowan broke, through and blocked .' Ma­loney's punt, tben recovered the- ball on Detroit’s; 30-yard line.forward :hoe netted, five yards.' Don'ohoe broke through ' left tackle for 'a first - down .. oh tbe Detroit’s 20- yard ' line. letzelter through center’ • for four,- Mefort picked- up four, more at left tackle. Letzelter plowed through fu* -an­other first down on'Uie Titan, 10- yard .‘line/- Here H&rpster.‘tried Donohoe arouiid vthe .'end in a - play itiy' slmliaf (¡a the'"one which scored the - second touchdown against Pitt a week ago. BUl had gopd interference and ‘ a score seeihod; almost certain. ' Somehow however, he slipped In a mud hole, and before he'could extricate blmaeif. an enemy' tackier had poiinced' npon him/ Two more at- 
ipLs falled in .much the same ?, and Harpster-tried a pass.' ivas. grounded .behind the' goal' line and- Detrolt took- tlie- ball on i / own :'20-yard' line.- -The half ided‘soon afterwards.- Pitted against giants,^¦. the. stel- r' defensive game put up -by the Tartan .forward wall-from .end to Indeed .gratifying to watch. -Not .'¿ single substitute was/used by Coach Steffen through- the contest. 'Carnegie 'Tech—r7 Detroit—0.
the Uniyeralty of . Detroit. It only 
makes, one all the mòre thankful 
that it did not rsln on October 23.
The Carnegie Plebee won froi 
St. Viucent’B on Saturday. The 
game was played on a field whloh 
was literally a sea of mud. >but the 
Tartan yoarllngs displayed a Set­
ter brand of football than they 
haye shown at any other time this 
:halking up 25 points, while 
(holding their ' opponents scoroless.
Fiimbling, which was so preva­
lent among the Plebos In their 
previous gameB, was. con6plcuón0 
by Ita absence on Saturday, In 
spite of the fact that the bail was 
sa_*et that holding on to it ap- l^IcaL lmpoealblllty.r. : ... ,.vpeaied to the onlookorB ss a phy- Kennedy was high scorer for |tbe Shlbo's, with two touchdowns, rhil'e Slothort and Loffler got one .pièce. Morbilo booted .a 'place- jeiit for the' sole additional point I from touchdown.
Dike Beads, last year’s captain,' 
failed to got much Joy out of his 
visit to Pittsburgh, for .the.' ganie- 
between his Westminster team and 
PUL , The Panther forgot, his
and- IB. «8
theisltors
0 was the . official
- If the two service schools turn" out as. good generals and admirals- ae they do football teams, then D&- mocracy Is safe'for-another de* cade. ' For proof of . this view tho wake at Michigan, where the Navy trounced. Frledmanltes are mourn-. Ing their terrible exhibition Sat-
ìrdaj. Baltlm10 t
i toadMoi
, 33 I
Gil Doble will have some reasoni be gloomy .this.time. Columbia 
med his big Red Machine 17 to D6nCh|g. juet to prove, that it can be done without Grange, Illlnols. bat- nly with' Penn for 56 .1-2 Iminutos and then "frosty Peters’’ rammed, wrote a flnale, which -will be long imbercd in' Urbana, by boot- 
i field, gcal. . M Ud
develop is the ¡deductlba.-thajt musf [bé ìmaàe' from the ‘Mlssourl-Weet Virginia, game Saturday. ' 27 to 0 was the westerners advantage. ’
t took a great' team tì the
Preside!
Met Cooper Cowan •... Maçby •
Yòdér(C)
•but Horb MeCracken had one and Lafayette won over W. *. J. ie to 10.- The . Macs had a, , big day of It. McCracken sent McGarvéy In' with- less than -five minutes to pláy and- the total 10 tó Í» against the final winner's. Mc- Gorvey proceeded- to cut -loose and thè dolofur news; brought no cheers from.'Little Washington. .
aiglit
R. G. .lé- t-.'. •:h.-e'ì
L HHarpster Douohoe 
jGoodwln Letaelter '. .:.:!H;F. ycôr&by'iuâne'ri
over the Yellow Jackets |pf Georgia Tech. 12 to 0... In their.
mainine- games !the'. Tar?
v.-. 'Long[defeated teams. In the' country.: '^A ..: Kr'àùs ( Victory. in . either-/will bring;; na- I Flannery I tlonwido attention 'to our schóoi.. - Gliiis r ,- ' • > ':v;:..' -Ba^horl'-. Tiiis. còmlogr'Sàturdày Carnegie. .' . Ross Iter I will - face V.Naw York, Pitt " will ' eii-' 
‘Murptiy[ leftata' at/home .:^th;.vWestV . Connéll glnla, Pénn Slate meets; Penn .and . ManièreiJ^y’. '&. J. takes-on. Bethany.’1 Maloney
Carnegie:- 'V'.'V:;v’O’ . 0V '7 ' 0—7. V '¦*., '' Touchdown:—-Ììètzelter. Goal * WATCHING OUR - . \ ’ "•>after'-;' touchdown .— .Letzelter. !?': :;';>';“ppP0NEiiTSMlaBed .eoal ^om' lleld^Fiannrry. ? •• •; ¦' '• * ' M !. "S'SùbetltutlòÙs—Learned’¿fòt"GÌiils,
St'romp¿fó'rSriártÚTe;v^llí&^''fof GÍÍÍa¿her;:‘ '0^óvé^:tó ¦Reïerèe^DôùgWrty/riW.';-;'. Ümflr^-M eeíieganr-Tñj'rdué^ ttèad M cCÚllb ii¿h^ ¦ Micti¿aii ' 
nrii:.1.'^ Ffelà v -'ÿüdgè^-' '.'¡•Ñitre-; Ditò;' ' ’v'--r
Mfw'ouih;; ^: ; ;. %^KotfèV:&mè''.s)'V ;':ví <• 1 '’ beor^la Tech ¡
Carnegie Plebes Defeat 
St. Vincent’s By 25-0
Wade Through Mud at Beatty 
- Fo.' Four Touchdowns -
'arai régulaijjured: In the Pitt clash, were un­able' to play, but their substitutes did yeoman "service: However, -itis hoped that those on the hospital list wlll -be able to Bee service la tho Kiskl game next Saturday..While all of. the team played well, the:'work of Bowern, Slathart. Herbst, Leffler and Kennedy Is worthy ' of special commendation. : Next'.Saturday Coach Irwin and MsJiager . Shepart will escort thôlr outfit to Saltaburg, there to en­counter. Kiski in a renewal of the 
traditional, feud between these'two teams.’ Klski bas. a wealth of Imatérlal this year, but they were :ed by thePitt Froah in one of. the Beason’s .big­gest upsets. However, if .the Plèbes again display tbe form 
against St Vincent’s they, have a good chance ¿o bring home the bacon. Lineup:.St Vincent , ...L. B.........i Butala
¦nned^r
..L. o.; ...C.... 
,. R. G.. ..R. T.. 
..R. E..
.Dunlap .. Faylash O’Donnell
Mlhalesky .... GHsez
'... Fenton
Touchdowns—Kennedy 2, Le ti­ler, Glathdrt -Point after touch* down—^ofblto l'. out "of 9. Ref­eree—^chreck. ’ 'Umpire —Boobier. 
Head llnesman—Cleìànd. Time of periods—12, 16, 15, 12 mlnutei
dltlbn. '.'-.A bit of. lighter entertainment has -also been scheduled. Several good musical numb«»' have been prepared and some : new stunts' have been Included.- ' Tbe Student ,Council' has tor some time desired to develop some method of so-- organizing the inter­ests of the plebes that the .various extra-curricular activities might de­rive -thè ; benefits : or their, co-opera^ tion, and that In turn, the'plebes might ’ be 'best directed Into the proper channels for such athletic and non-athletlc Interests. - The Freshman Activities'Assembly has been tho result of much' planning .on Uie'pari of the Council.
> (Continued From,Page One) faculty in S'clencti School 'will' also' present a stunt,, thus following the prccedént established at. the event for ' the! past’ two'1 years i; liDuring itbë. pâst .fewVyears tbe Science Sta? has steadily Increased 
in - interest and popuiarlty. 'Thje la evidenced-;by- IheCMct that at'last year'aSfunction anii at the ^ne the 
year/before,; tlie attendance of tho Sclehce^School;men‘\^aB/';à]moet' one hünVlred' per ^centl'' Thë' cioni talttttflilB.vepdeaVpri'iig td' oiake 'thít ^é'ar*á>r¿vetot-'''fj0r.?t2fe/sío!exi'ca'-YMen,' eic‘el;ïh‘osebf'foraéŸ'yèars'yi ' 
këénin^re^tatidri»^$endàn^e ' are '««RBÍctedL'- \r‘‘:
my-C 
Approach of
/ ~ "" Selecting a Careér
... A great.deal.:haa>been written 
and said In the last few yean 
about the college graduate and his 
career. A^paper,.'entitled. "Simpli­
fying the . Selection of à Carvèr,” 
written by C. H. Murray, snpeTvl*. 
sor of employment at. the Ameri­
can RolUn^ Mills Compauy, con­
tains manÿ ÿertlnont point’s bli the 
subjoct. Mr. Murray’s years of 
wide expérience with men seeking 
positions established' hlm- as an au*, thority 'on .employment problems, sod many of lUs suggestions nv prove heplful tb otir own gradu­ates. ..Mr. Murray introduces |ils sub­ject with thé statement that most college graduates have fairly well
decided what they wish, to do, .and Uielr problem .then, .Is to select tho orgnniLatlon lnl which they wish to expand their-.. energies.-.; Certain 
others do not, know, in which field their' experience would prove most effective,' andr-Uiey also, at«' faced with'the problem: of choosing a' 
company, wlth whlch they wish-to coiuxect themselves. p 
"A few y&arsngo,’' Mr .Mur ray 
states, ,(there ¦ was apparently no scientific method in .any /young, man’s mind^as.to how such a prob­lem could be approached. As a re* eult, Uio iiian, as well as Induotry, lost a great deal ot timb In getting to the place where a. proper con­tribution could be made and re* 
warded. With the recent growth of an Increasingly dose relationship
____ ttukiy ì» y ljù^irvy«ìftxs'^'UieCavei^èaLudmtwlUatùck thìi’-. vroUemVcC^ chooalng the .company 
.irith' whJch^hLe wlihu' tó becòWé affli latéd in much : thè; auna nianner; àà he attadia anyElaborati)ry teat: 
firet sotting, up hls'problémii, then . getting together all.facts nécessary to'-Its solution, and tfnaity: tying them tpgeUier ^d.;ûjTlv{ng’ at a logical cbncidsion;";''.' v./The article points- out that today, all different types- and classes'of1 teohnicai. skill arò employed undor 
the' same roof, among-them many responsible-positions which shbnìd prove attractive to .the collego man,. Although it may. take .a tew yean : of observation on thé Job before a dectslon can be arrived at concern. Ing tho selection oi the company, there are ceitaln polnta whlch Mr. Murray .suggests as “measuring • »lloks.” ...
Gbfp other cigarette ever 
so many millions of friends
WHEREVER you travel, by sea or 
by land, in places of work. or 
palaces of pleasure^-you-find the 
friends of Camel. And since the 
art of increasing life’s comfort 
through smoking was - discovered, 
no Qtlter. agarette ever made and. 
kept so many friends.
Why does Camel lead the world?
. Because only the chdicest Turkish 
and Domestic tobaccos are f>ought > 
for Camels. Because Camel is given 
a blending thar, regardless of price,
can be found ill do other dgcrette; 
Because the world’s largest to­
bacco organization spares neither ¦ 
cost nor effort to make Camel the 
.utmost la cigarettes. *:
Camel rewards its friends with 
; never-ending peace .and: satisfac* 
tion. Through- the day and into 
the night, it's simply Impossible to 
smoke enough Camels :to tire the 
taste. - We invit^ you to ftaswerp 
now, the world1» most popular . 
smoke invitatio&—Hdve 0 Cornell
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WIÍ^STON-SALBM. N. C.
iiiiimmiiiiiiiflimriiiiiRiiiiiiiiniinHiiBiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiThe Bud Cost
It is not altogether the cost of fuel, but the cost 
of using it that1 tells the final story in your ledger.
One firm reports a 28% reduction-iirheat cost, for one process, through using gas.
Another firm has increased its productive 
capacity 6.4%.
Still another is saving at the rate of $40,143.40 a year. ¦¦¦.¦¦¦¦¦
Thousands of similar cases might be cited.
But the important thing to you is: what will 
gas do in your plant?
Our interesting book, “Gas—The Ideal Factory Fuel”, may help , you to find the answer. Write 
for a copy today.
Four Advantage« sf .Cas
P
any time, any place, any . . quantity. .. 
Controllable. exact,temperatures, auto-
Economical'—.: lowest final.cost per unit of 'production.
CUan-r- r.comfomble frxtoiy work* . - mg conditions..
a
American Gas Association :
342 Midûon Avenue, New York City
min...............
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS ^

---------------------------------------------------

rifan
r mit, dui«! tb* Mlht» J
EDITORIAL STAFF
Edltortn-Cblof - Managing: Edito UewB Editer- -Athletic Editor
•oryehai*landendlewmiimtaoof red tap« I 
and formiili|m’wliicTi made'! up; campus life. 
Youthin’revoUagainst pretense/-
Perhaps the last generation,« spite of con- 
stant rciteratmg.by its renmBntB, was not so w , prim as it is painted^ Within the last decade,
-Morrill Hoytosbead reminiscent gentlemen have seen fit to give to
.Frantts Kolb Pr®ss scores of -volume, dedicated; to the 
...K Bernard! task of throwing light oh eighteenth century life, and mannets.Many of these stories were 
issued anonymously,' to allow for A revelation 
of & loose and lax society.’ If these. volumes 
have any yalue'ss documents, w*e may be ¿lire that there -was a good deal o£ racy c&rousal 
Fenton Finn ' Jean Ho; linked up with the social scene of the last cen-
BEaEEr,E D2tEGYO » tuiy; Aiid the generations before the last cen-
Margaret Roseoli • Herbert Gran tury, also; We' have no novelist today withJUNIOR ASSISTANTS " realist'tendencies to be . compared withField-
Floreoco McLao&bllo Helen Reed ing:- All our sex poets pat together hare noth:Josephine Clark Charles EartUDg mg so illuminating to.present as‘‘Tom Jones/’when it comes to documenting our times. All- 
of which goes to show that the younger gen­
eration is not progressing wholly .without pre­
cedent.
Russell BallingerRobert M. PewEdwin UiDDenono Hnroia JacoDBoa
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredith' Stamp -.- •' Milton Cohen
Joba Schneider 
REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Clyde McKee Harry Widt
William McNeil
Busin«Circulation Manager..............................— ------------. . ,Advertising Manager................... .Shelby NcMlUIon with which
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS , ’. .common James Seibert ' R. Noble ¦ ..T. R. Zenk A. M. Brown
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS .:
I*. Sacks R. Bnimhet J. R. BiH. Kondell J. BadorfB. Wedner
‘ The. conflict between the youngsters and the 
elders seems translatable in terms of a univer- 
LLa Snpowitz ealla'wof moral evolution—that the generation
M. T. H.
. Teplltz C. E. Blass
­luxhfumP 8GrrDME
•" Another name has been added to the casualty 
list as a result of .that despicable form of col­
legiate amusement known as hazing.This time it is a freshman of Westminster 
College-who suffered painful injuries at the 
hands'of upperclassmen. of the same institu­
tion. •:It appears that he was led from-the college 
late at night, blindfolded, and taken onto the 
main highway, where hè was struck by an au- 
tomobile that was rounding a sharp', curve. 
There, is little hope for his recovery. '
- Bad as collegiate, hazing may seem today, it 
is not to;be compared with the hazing of for- 
* ' subjected to
The moralistic preachments about the bra- 
gennese of: the younger generation aro still
being pouréd out by certain relics of the.dear-, mer years, when'freshmen 
dead! seventies, • eighties; .¡and. «nineties. . The;. 'all monaer-of.physical tortnre,. 
younger generation which hangs around -the - Of .course,.the case of the freshman at West- 
onmposes, in particnlar. ; T00: much open talk- • minster ; is most; ••regrettable, but the harm 
ing' aboat^thlngsi .open , talking .where-there-' doné to .the unfortunate youth was ’uninten- 
nàed to.bè whisperings behind upraised :fans' tional. : Had the automobile not rounded the 
Today youth pokes its nose into impolite.met- ' cuire unexpectedly, the boy would. now"be- in 
ters, reads books" in which such.; words as . his classroom laughing at his expérience with 
‘‘adultery.” of times .appear, goes to the sei j’thehazingparty.pl&y and drags, little , brother along, snaps its ' . —:-------- '
fingers at propriety-in-géneraK What's to be The days ;of collegiate hazing are' limited,
doné..m:-the matter of expurgation, how' may Host of’the .institutions of the present day have 
the society, 'delivered once, and for-all-'by di- already reeognized it as an. undeeired evil and 
vine:unction, bè taken out of the hands:Of the have banned, it completely, pther schools 
Humpty-Duuipties? have reduced it to.a mild,:hannlèss.-form/
' ' • c . The reâlization has gradually arrived that
It isn't that they didn't have bad words in parents send their sons to college to gleani a 
books written fifty years ago,' nor that the . higher education, to develop a greater in tel- 
long; protective skirt was successful in-keep- lect, to be a benefit to modern civilization, 
ing thé man on the post office steps from know-i \ Therefore. why? practice an; abômüiable^f.orni 
ing his'mind about such things. It'just hap- of' amusement that-resemblèe nothing so much 
pened that society, arbitrarily decreed that cer- aB a group of uncivilized'redskins torturing a' 
tain books must be read in, the haymow and young brave to test his worthiness in becoming 
then tucked away back m.Redpath’s‘‘History. a warrior? .’
of the World” in seven volumes. Thé only dif- There will, always be in man a little spark
fence between, the younger génération of fifty • of the savage, but it remains for the institu-' 
years ago, and-.-the younger generation of today tions of higher learning to teach him'to control 
is a matter of false pretenses and candor, • It these savage instincts. Once man subdues 
'used t« be that youth in. the colleges spent- these-instincts he becomes the greatest aid to 
their timé composing'p'ae&na toHhe'Founders; modern civilization.
nów they-.wonder -what in-the world possessed . M. W. S.
Much ot- the Injustice on- this 
eartli, reads the composito message, 
number of otirrenownod mod- 
critics-may be ascribed to the 
unavoidable existence ot •> .linguis- 
ireotypes. Thus "bolshevlfc. 
Kq KIux. bootlegger.-' and.-more to 
the ¦ point "Rotarian.'- are built 
into the everyday vocabulary not 
words to connote' shades of 
meaning by reason ;of their combi­nation with other, words,.but a sUcles' to dear thinking., stimuli a definite prejudicial mental rè ' iponses...
i Knowing thia.aaewould prefei 
tot to use these terms; hat ex pedlency, the mother of convention, >metlnies compels' one to ok. one's aversions: This, 'then/to bo en autopsy of Carnegie col­miate rotarinnlsm. .
Yes, the Rah-Rah boys are gone. 
They passed.-out unnoticed sòme year or two'ago. A mechanical attempt to carry on la their spirit ie made at regular Intervals, date these attempts. hav< salted in . a mere : echo of their thunder.
This Intramural apathy has (which is most consistent) cau 
little excitement ' among kpathettalaas; -. but the studi body-ln-facultate -considers.. 1 iditlon most deplorable. 1 vent - spirited, hell-nUelng-for* r-oId-Tech attitude is the only e Indication ot healthy yon y believe, and they' fear—w be truthful, no one seems >w Jast what théy Ado feai^ this graduate school mood contln- is to, develop in the undergrad
It Is ‘surprising that such a m mentous tendency should hai roused no one sufficiently to bring Orth tho suggestion .that ax estlgatlon be made. That •rder of things that had proved imlnentty . aaccesetul for ears' should taper off . into scurlty; ^fllh never, a slgn-oT- re­action, Is worthy of note; .. No scl- iDtlflo . analysis' of conditions ieen made. . However, we hazard a few, opinions In tbe mat-(and thls 1V IniIB).
ímI» Save * 
English Language 
Says Otis Skinner
Otis‘Skinner, the eminent a an informal talk to studen ie Arts College - last .Tuesday 
broke many ot the roseate Illusions that have .been created about the 
art of acting. .
'-Mr Skinner, who has played for many yeon on thejegillmaie stage 
(with tha usual fling at plcti Is today considered the gre representative of .that old B,chooLo{ 
'•Romantic' Acting.’*He has always looked upon the 
Department • of Drama u2 bur Col* in a! most, paternal, way, and 
he sold that he considered it the 
finest school in tbe country;, for » pther place, was the art of the theater presented In sach an ilfleh manner, and In no.Sther ol.was there such a sincere 
attempt at teaching the true art of the theatre In a practical and a petont way as in oiir Depart-
emphasized by Mr. Skinner. 
It Is a mastery of technique, by hich the actor'expresses himself ¡with his own Individuality; always Ith tho consciousness of an audl-.
The old idea that an .actor must >el and live his part' seemed to amusé ‘ Mr: • Skinner Immensely. Thé -power to -produce tears- does lot necessarily .show that one Is ¦apable of doing emotional acting, t is like the sculptor who Btarts 
rutting a block oi stone quickly, >r like an artist who hastily places the adumbrations on the canvas; 
gradually their speed decreases at length, the - chisel cuts 
slowly and carefully» while the ar- 1st places the final bruBh strokes rith meticulous certainty—and It ,1s much the same way In the art 
of. acting.There is only'one way by which we can save the English language 
today , and that 1V through the medium of the stage. Mr. Skinner deplored the ' fact that ' eo ' many plays, have the’dialect and jargon which is , under-mining the ipure English. . “The ' English laneir . Inheritance*'—Mr. Skinner
R.Corèsso^rlfew 
Yori Critic, Talks 
On International
Trend Toward Serious 
Themes and Universal 
Treatment
A general lack of ebullient en­thusiasm, which Is partly cauBe, and partly effect, offers an Inoffen­sive Introduction to the knifing pro­cess. The sparsity . of ^effusive wit' on'' the • port' of • the -'coinptroi- lers .of pep 1s :a contributing fac­tor. Their belief that It is tho 
(duty of tho student body'to stick vociferously wlth*the team Is all right, but ¦ it’s . all, wrong Thoy have a double, duty, not the single duty of mechanically co-ordinating 
t.heg effort/
The over-systemntlzatibn of stu- council work, though It is ex­peditious, and increases efficiency, nds <
Reporter Finds, Christopher
Morley Quite the Fine Fellow
several well. ! placed kicks and a I 
forward pass, onr Tartan reporter j 
actually got within hailing distance, of Christopher Morley without ac-1 «ruing mora Chan a few minor casr ualtlss' and still' clutching victor­iously her pencil and notebook."Mr. Morley?” (In si. very weak voice) with a futile grasp at his coat tails then on the point ot dis­appearing into an elevator.' Mr. 
Morloy-; Is a man of action, not r'words; he-grasped . our reporter firmly, but: convincingly <by the ami and piloted-.her Into the con-
Wlth this as ,the scene for her interview, our. youthful .scribe look; 
od‘forward to;.an:.eleyating oonver- eatlon with Mr.; •Morlfey.-'.’tatnoue' American poet;, essayist and novel­ist who visited -In Pittsburgh last ¦Thursday. But she waa on this' score disappointed.-. .-The eminent 
Christopher Is as'consistent .id re^ {usiu^. to make: banal remarks as . he la’ In refusing.: to wrlte banaj books.: . ,• i: '.And by this same virtue'of re­
fusing to' be trite, he said, when asked which he thought to. be "th4 more difficult process, writing his. N books ’ or autographing the covers of them, that what he.Uked: be:about the Book Fair was the li< esses.: Diplomatic Mr. Morley! We really; didn't blame him, .they were altogether charming ladles; form­ing a self-appointed body guard around, his person to protect him, from the buffeting seemed, had gathered in full force on Horne’s balcony. fBy. this time the elevator arrived at Its destination; but bei 1C6t Mr. Morley- In the cr discovered that he'has a go .In the left corner of his loi
Free Lecture Course 
At Carnegie Museum
The Carnegie Museum announ 
"a. course ot S2 Sunday.atwrnt 
• nnd .11 ..Tuesday evening . lectures 
on natural history subjects. ;
. will be given in;,the; Lectuie.Hall 
of. the Canieg-ie Jnstitule;''-Practi­
cally all of them will be llluatjuted.
Tbe Sunday afternooh taik^Vwill : begin :on October: 81,' and '.will con- Vtinue. through March / 27, ' l927. .' Each; lecture -will, be;at' 2:30;p...in.; The iist.of the subjects and; speak- : - «ra;l'si«i;’ttllo^ei^ ...Noi embeir '-.7^1-0 tus,. ^:31meii.ln.; Ja*. . •/pan;'^byiHs^':c,\0|t^'de^ ^;NoyemjWt;-;£l^^ w«Ai 'of Lapland^- h> Or 6 Clyde 
. iliMV^^•• - ^r^At ;NatUF»Hat,Mn-the Jungle,r by Dr. Samuel K, Wil­liams j ':. . Novembwr.'-j si—Whale .• Hantlng - the:nordfl of: America, ky>>'X*y.O. "AmttroBc.j'':; y-,. .Peeembet. » fllg-DweUaw U
Mr.'Morley, author ¿^ "Parnassus i WheelB/’ “Wliere the Bine Be.' 
gins’* and. “Thunder on-the Leti1,” 'Islted Jn:.Pittsburgh last. ^Thura- lay,, at which time he spoke at Horne’s ,Bbok..Falr and autograph-, id copies' of . his latest, book, 'Romany Stain,’.’ sold bn that day. 3e could be best described in ap- jenronce, perhaps, as a tall hnsky middle aged - man' with - a twinkle both eyes; his personality eman- >s that affable geod humor which characterizes his works.Morley was bom in HaverfoTd, ’ennsylvnnia, of English "parent- ge—a self styled “Anglo-American apsule." He / was schooled In .merica,. later going to .Oxford .on Rhoades, scholarship represent-, [inig .tbe; state.'of Maryland. '• ^During' his undergraduate days he .wrote both prose and poetry volumloous- Retuming to America he 'be-; 
ie Interested ia. the- publishing; (ness and ,worked for. a. time'for Doubleday, •page', -and- Company.he ''entered .jonrhallsm and held positions; successively 'on the Ladlei ^Home: Journal, ithe Phila- delphla' Evening Ledger - and the New Tork; Evening !P<.,"Psfnassus on Wheels,”: publish* id in 1917,. established the author's 
oputatloh. ' jThe; keen, natural tui- nor tliiged," perhaps, with a . bit; of. ;atlre, of this and his Iat< ia.ve .won -him. the appreciation .of ¦ve'ryone who chances to read Ms vhlmslcal' reflections. His most Important contribution. to contem­porary ' Americon ’ broBe," however, the new life he has instilled into 
the aliuoBt-extinct art of writing tharmlrig •; eeeays.-,Latterly,. •; Mr. Morley.*has'turned with no lese ie^lous >effort,
; by Lt .CoI; ‘H. Edmond¦of-'-ste Builifl.
December 26—The Story of,;the ‘Arctic:.’.' •;'=
January. 24-Turkey and the Nei ast,.'.'by. Harry C.' Ostrander. 
January 9—Wild Flowers •• Western .Pennsylvania^.by.'Dr. ' E. Jentrlngs... v:
.-Januiify;. 16—LaySanf.lsland.The BirdvMetroppllSj Of.-the: Paclfli ,C:.;J;:,'Aibrecht.''v/.;..r;:V;v';.'- 
; Jannary ; 28rT-nJgh^aya - andways, ^y.-.Barn^m Brown.; %...../^J[8i^pr’v30-^he?^nl»w.byiF^d^l^^ejitClat^February fr-^Oor OU -Rosvve, ^w.; I^ng::;WIU lt:.'Last? by 'l>r. R^eom^E^rL^.aomers.Febnmry,.Ali—-Beauties • of-v the Southwest, by: H., Warren: Poor.February .iiO^-W'e^i-Thev Indians, 
by .Chief 'Biiialo Chlldf^ng I*noe.February 27-—SocUl Life Among fasectj. by Dr. Samuel H. Williams. . March f-^The L*ad of the Shin­
ing Mountain, by Laurence D. I 
Kitchell. ' " I
March 13—A Collector’s' ExPerl-1 ice in the EHeld, by Graham Net-1
March 20—Unknown 'Newfound­land, by W.T.Tait.-27rr-New Discoveries In Mongolia, by Arthur Sterry Cogge- ihal|.- The flrst of the Tuesday evening lectureB»will be on December 7. (They will begin at 8:15 p. m. The subjects and speakers Is as
December 7-r-The John P. Sem- 
ple-Carnegio Museum Expedition. Hudson Bay.December": 14—Animal Life Stu­
dies, by William Finley. • January ‘ 11—Some Big Oame Fields, by Dr.,Thomas S. Arbiith- 
noL- rJanuary -18—Legend .and , Ro- auce of the Northwest Indian, by C. J.: Albrecht 
January 2&<-rTbrougb India and Kaflhmlr^‘by-BarnuiQ-,Browk-,;‘ February 8—Eclipse Expedition to1 Sumatra, by Dr. Hebor Doust .Curtis^ . ‘y 16—Life Through the 'Ages,:.by Charles R. Knight.•ch: 1—Japan Forty Tears- 'Ago - (P^aonal/.remlrilacencea). by Dr. ^. :j. -Holland, Director Emerl- is, Carnegie Institute.March 8—Six .Centiirl.es of Wind id. Wave,‘.by. Dr! O. E.- Jennings. • March 16—Life’ Secrets of Wild lowers, by Arthur C. Pillsbury. March 22—Results of the. Asiatic Expedition, '• by ' Arthur S Coggeshall. • ,•the lectures are free.
:ratlc rule , in this' work is n iew-development, but .the blance of'lTcmocratlc control ¡formerly existed, has been allowed.
’onenrrentty, adminlstratloi 
thority .baa been imposed on a itudent - organ. ’1 These mente have' met ; 'with little 
oppoeitlonfromthé-fltudentmt which' qs a result has developed itehcy'complex and rests ci for^bly In stapld apathy.
Tying up to the above is the 
tptance oC extra-curricular. act ’ as a fraternity obligation ani commercial r opportunity, ’ rat ian a-chance for porsonal prowess id service to-the school.- 
And diplomatic. . cowardice longs In this group.. Féar ot aroua- rancour with the danger of at­tendant lossv of -preferential slip- port has.sealed the.lips.of thé'stu­dent.. cnampions on many occa>, though ¦ if the wails had
And. thé realization dents' that' their heroei
•professional athletics not be ovbrlooked.
EUGENE RONCERAY, NOTEO FOUNDRY MAN VISITS CARNEGIE.ON RECENT TRIP
(Continued From Page One) / congress of Paris In 1923, he cre­ated Uie’.international commltte« In charge of new testing methods irbp. Mr.'Ronceray isnUflc ;technical institutions and Is a member, of-Uie. council .of various economic ¿ndr industrial organiza­tions. • ;
¦ ' On this recent visit to the schools! be seemed highly impressed with the,,work the school Is doing, and offered to co-operate with tho Department of ^Industrial Relations to bring about.a 'bètter understand­ing of-mlxJng.'metals and machiné mouldlngprbbc Is exceptionally .--well qualified to d.o this! because, of his years of perience- and. practice. ',
• (Continued From Page One). . -merclaily.-: feasible', process- - of. ob­taining petroleum; .products: ¦ ‘from co,al.'-^ Dr.vFriedrichBergius ' has such'i. a ^prociess!/whlc|ihe • will- 
:plain:r;at''?^hei"meotingf^cDrJ'iFreii* Fischer ud General'Georgea Potart hsve ,a]8o; devl8ed': methi^s whIch they will'preient: torthe-.delegates: - flbme bf the other'ottpctj'.orthe conference, are: smokeless • fuel:gasification of coal under high and low temperatares, completer utlll- 
satlon ,of c^. tar' in. the;manufac-: 
tureofby-preducta,«tc.'
ad dietlnct—H. H. J.
ng our own bland assur- 
-there, would be plenty of japac^- at1 Royal Cortissos's; lecture, L* dvin '.the series of talksoelog given'at the. Carnegie Moslc Hall In connection with the liiter- Art Exhibit, we leisurely ate dinner, stretched a bit, .and calmly appeared at-promptly .8:15’. 
get the Jolt of our lives. Every it In the house—£¿000 In number, you please—was filled and after 
climbing'hastily to'-the top most1 tint in “peanut , heaven” we were irmltted by the gTace .of.God and kindly usher to park in the mid­
dle of the red-carpeted aisle—^un- unfortable but fit punishment for being so presamptuous as to be- ive that Pittsburgh doesn't-recog- ze art when it is thruBt Into her
Roy4l Corttseoz, art'.editor .ol Scrlpper’s and'of the HeraJd-TrJ- leading newspapers in New c City and foremost American authority In art spoke on “The Ii 
ornational Art Exhibit.“ In brief iutline, he g^ve-ua' the Eallent chi icterlsbcs -of- modern art In Am ica and ia -foreign lands, picking what, In his mind, was the good bad in each country, taking tbe different lands as'units, anl telling 
e what he thought of them and hy. Mr. Cortissoz Illustrated hli •cture with, pictures from' the, In- »rnatlonal. Art Exhibit. .¦ • 
American Art, said. Mr. Cortli as always been.noted tor its i 
orkm'ansbip, its-careful.attention > detail and tone, yet In the past has lacked depth in the themes . has chosen. Our painting was 
merely a skillful, -beautiful portntf- i, “Rose and Silver” exemplifiedthis school. ’A new, ah........""worthy .trend, however, is being: de- eloped toward more Berlous themes.and more universal treat- 
:, not eo much attention being to petty detail. As an lllustra- 
of the later group Mr. CorUs- cited "The Man and the .Gul-
DELVING INTO SECRETS 
OF STUDENT BOOK ROOM
With much giggling a natty R. O.C. thoughtfally chewing on a ir of fudge; plnnked. a penny, on ie counter and:asked ^for a. penny ider. A bored looking co-ed pric­ed for the squeenteenth time that 
history text book which t ought to get-^ometlme. wnxt son of .Carnegie measuring six foot six. and then some, requested blue prints bn oiled machines. Charcoal brushes, typing -paper, slide rules arid many other , of the Implements necessary for warfare 
are constantly paeBlng in a steady stream over the counter of the 
iiook store'to the not-£uch-wllllng ¿ands of the stud«The Carnegie, book store, which 
has for the past five ‘ye; pled its present 'location in . .the basement of the Centre! Building, 
situated In the Industries -Building, In pla'ce now - occuplod - by the phohe' exchongel' The. remarkable In'the volume of "its sales, .which have been steadily ilng during the past few years' doubt due to-the. fact, that all supplies for the students are hat d|ed through the book storo; it 9Eiles increasing in direct' propoi tion to ths Increase in Carnegie'
Students come In a steady stream the. whole day; average of five thousand weekly. A more or less pertinent note, ins here'bo made that girls palronl:the shop almost.exclusively duriplaying tli
The book Plying night school, winter- session there is another .and.¡nnd summer-school students all (brighter elde to this stoiy. .ThereIthe- year found. The only 
|has developed at last what many ¡slack season occurs: In the,'spring, pie call a healthful-state of [just before .t&e-’close of the. sec id. In this state, the' mind Is in j semester.-' The- busiest season equilibrium, .it is frankly skeptical bourse, being just at -the opei id tnlldly cynical. :-It; osciltates [of the winter session; for this 
tween .viewpoints, and: is practt- icasloiv five students are usually cally-Incapable- :of making :.decl-1 employed in addition to. .the -two Jns; establishing eiliical- codes, |regular clerks. . - oking enthusiasms, or movirigi Instructors put in requisition jsteadily in any definite . positive' di- slips for the texts which .are to be' Broadened; Interests, and ¡used in iheiti courses which are. or- the Influence oj- the young-ldea In- Idered directly -by the book store!account in great part for ¡The management .Is -under-the >dl- i of. alTalrs. • rection of the school, and lt Is cper-'
tar.”
in France, as. In Great Britain 
ie finds art in a transitional stage. They are breaking away from.blind 
itlonality, from following'the' ¡slers, and-this nnreat'la typi-' loted.ln the-many eccentric 
their art assumes. Interest­ing works are being produced with 
less ‘-depth, of theme i and. tried . types of .. workman-, ship, yet it seems that nothing-ot| nl note is being produced in eith- 
¦ country. • - : IThis generation, in Italy flilds | Italian art permfiated' with a new i and' livid - sense ^ of technlqoe and workmanship. Perhaps the. very finest ot our modern pictures ar* being produced ¿in, .that country; Q. Rbniaghoil,.. who Is- at. present 
teaching in the . Ait Department oi Carnegie Institute, of Technology and who has‘fin Individual showing 
In - the exhibition this -year,, - says •the hope , of this 
minting : In ' Italy. The. first prize' thla year. was won ilian, Ferruccio Fcrrazzl. and tbe-. Elders’; .was i a perfect example of Rornagnoli’s work, exemplifying bis perfect technique and natural­
istic. sense. , .. .• IHe treated 'briefly of. Spanish; Russian, German, Belgian.and Rou-. manlan .Art .-. Cortieabs seems ..to find here a. crude;- Violent kind' of i sensatlonaUsra and a most artificial method of handling most simple themes. The much discussed “An­ita Berber” by Otto Db£ was, to him, tbe acme of the bad taste In sub­ject executed in a clever finld easy technique : which he finds In’Ger-
In concluding. Mr. CorUssoz; wished to make. It.clear-th^.,the International : Art Exhibit; which is held • annually'; in Pittsburgh, is by ho. meaas a' collection, - of pictures selected with an eye for possible merit. Pictures. 4re.;ch9aeii:-Wh)ch 
are1 representative v • ot ;,their. tlmi and of their-country. "'V -• :
WORLD NEWS
THE TARIFF. MANIFESTO
-A ?90d; bit-of-commotion was 
caused in political .and . financial 
circles as a rescJt ot the appear- 
aace of an international manifesto 
itgñéd. by. some of the 
[most prominent ,bankers, and .finan- 
' of - the., leading . nations. 
Amoog the baukera .of .this coun- 
whose names' appeared in' con-. 
Inecclon with; It were Uiose ot J. P. 
Morgan and Albert Wlgfeln,- Preel- 
of the Chase Notional Bank 
[of .New York.
The title of the manifesto la. “A 
Plea, for tlie Removal of'Restric- 
Upon European Trade.’1 One 
[of the first results attributed to the 
appearance oC Uüs documentwas 
a ahnrp break in pric^i 
Stock Excbauge. At that time It 
difficult to obtain 
definite information i 
:haracter and origin ot the mant*. 
'esto. Later-it was explalned- hy 
¡orno of the financiers - who b 
signed -this manifesto that it : 
plied only to Europeaxr.trade as 
plained la its Utle siad there v 
either by allusion 
inference, io American 'tariffs;
Mellón - spoke of the 
benefits of the tariff to this co particularly as 1C related Iona), prosperity. FivBident ilidge also spoke In the same i to the newspaper correspond-. 9 In. his semi-weekly meeting, [and emphasized the relationship trade. policy and our' 
|high'standard .of living.' All of this vas obviously tor' the purpose of -aiming' any' undue fear, that any change was contemplated in bur International, trade .policy.
Democrats, .or .rather those Dem­ocrats who are In'faVbr of a down­'d revision: of the tariff; 'drew' n 
different interpretation. from the manifestó. It was felt that Ameri- 'bankers and financiers, moBt 
hom are Repablicans in poll- could >iot reasonably recom­mend breaking down tariff barriers between European notions without 
[favoring modifications of the
the .. first of. the Symphony Or­chestra ; concerts, as! holders of 
tickets. Donbtles* . ai : attend to B«en the delegation! a very healthy eln r'.a • technical' lprtltution.
A feature of uie Friday
Notèsof Music
By Allan V. Ntrn
•egutations in this Il ls enevltable that internation­al bankers -and-finandieTs -should wish' - to- vhàve ae'llttle ¦ trade - re- etrictlonrRS-pbssibieCbetweeii couc- 
9 'in order that those nations which ' their investments are mhder should hévè- as wide'mark- 
>ts ae possible for their ;producti ind hence be dble to inakê lé'rger jrofite. rOf course' .it 'ie " moat loubtful that bankers In tiiè United States will come out In favor of redunloh of vthô tariffs in-this :ountry because of the great Inter- :Bt which they have in home indus­tries,-blit on the other hand-they 
desirable to advocate world s fbr ail products. :manifeàto itself is written In eneral-tèrma, and' the .ànly [tariff conditions-which it; mentions Ifically - are - thoBei -which arose Europe, as-a-result of the World 
On the other hand there .Is rly a ."statement • 'of general 
[principles whlch: might he applied' jby' them to any counitry.. The final ;of the Text reads as' 'But we wish:to' place u'r conviction that the. 
tabllshment ' of economic freedom 19 the .best. hope of restoring-.'tin commerce and the ’credit of thi world.”' -¦
BARTO GRIFFES. :
This is a mer
state of mind refe [the writer can mak
subject for some.' 
discussions, and that -the" Ti will gladly devote space to any student or faculty opinion lh. the
that healthful I>roflt':being- made.. Thè cost of er­red to above, I tides Is ten per cent'less-than list i augges- Price. - Articles range in ‘aiiality 
ila is a'likely I *roin the popular penny folder to
ALVIN BROWN '
Chairman aGW
JUNIOR PROM
• (Cbntlnuod iFrom Paee One.)' orchestra In the. "'class, with;ATt Laudry, Warins's' Peunaylvanlaus: book' 
a. the prom 1 ‘
. _..'alr ofthe ’Junior class this year,' Uie com-, 
mlttse. Is making a , doubie eifort to., make .the - Junior;; Prom -' of this 
year' the biggest and best Prom held in;;tbe: history .’of \C¿rne- 
Qnjy 'Juniors and/Senlora'
pales' before the" - superior glory, of the intelligence demanded of the; patient book ‘ store .clerk.' Requeste' are made -for: ’' French books with blue' cbvers-r-ahout; so thick, - the text for courae - No. C123a, a green ' leather note , book to fit. two ..holed- paper,' - phono^ graphlcamanuensis, and-penclls the exact shade -that Prof.-.Blank re­quires. Then too, there Is the. stude who simply niUBt ;see> every note 
ihg In the- store'before he neV.pf-auItflble.slze.cblPr,^luster and ^flexibility; ' - At least- the- ;.R;. O. bEa C;- with-. • the penny-- and^the i^dy'-knew wbal .fie; wanted! v \ .
iV- hr«' • éllglhU' jto?; alt¿nd,the roni¿:.' and alumnl A from :': other ¡hools.are .eligible.- ;
The^prenmbarytlcketsalev ' ‘nstltuted * ‘{'recess commliteeisom« ber who e'rpect to' i attend. r'A'.'cbm- plete. plan: for the sale of- tickets 
has .not as yet-been worked out but It .will no doubt -be - of - a ’ similar form to-that used in the past few yean
; (Conyhued;:Frbm Page One.).
-s’ . sortions. - ; The. V.reqalreinéstà •r admlttançfe nre few ;and 'almplé, i .a^ceptable Bln*tng: voice^and at- 
. mda^e-.at';'éa^-;tad;';;eVe^.-.(-.ré-' h'earsall: The ;:flr8t;-rehearsal - will be held for one hour tomorrow nighty November- ï,- in room 167
^‘DEVELOPMENT OF ' NEWf&PAPER -BUSINESS’
TOPIC OF ADDRESS
. -(Continued urbm Fage One) •• .Speed is a.blg fa'ctor.in the news­paper business o£ today. - papers must -be ready for tho waiting pub­lic, trolleys, and'trains at a speci- id time; larger presses, sterotyp- g machiues and other appliances being- the. means, of acquiring 'this result. According to available eta- tlstlcs, approximately one. and a 
Lklf newspapers are' dellvered each day to every, family in this-country. : Advertising' being . the. chief in­
terest' of -Mr. ' Yost -WM-v BU-eBseu rather forcibly'‘fo His audience'. It was pointed .. oat that' about two- thirds of the-incomb. of newspapers in 192S was derived, from advertise­ments placed in their columns. III. cMentally,' he added-that advertis­ing Is not of much benefit-to. the businessman' unless he backs^up his. advertlBements ^with-. elther service,' quality ,'of goods, ‘or-;low prices.,•: K'*'
¦ [ In closing Mr. .Yost stressed, the fact that students: should tsike. life a little more seriously and1; should strive - for, that - indefinable.some­thing /that seems; to elevate son men far above those around'him'.
ORUTEN, AUTHORJOHN-
. OF “YOUNG- .WOODLEY»: ¦ SPEAKS/ON: MpDERN '
concert, November 5, by the Dos- I
Symphonx . Orchestra at 6yria IMosque,1 will be. opines of Rome," i the - latest symphonic .poem ot 1 
Respighl.rthe i faniOUa .Itallea cboh t n-;; Respighi .made bis fimt - to - America''last' season and ucted this - score In seveisl 
cities, where It wee applauded ob one of the most significant achlere- iments'df the modcrn ltallan school 
Special attention' was-attracted by episode In the third movemsDt, the introduction of a phonograph' orchestral score for the first time in' hiBtory. ReBplghl hod 
jbaen «truck by some .remarkable phonographic recordings of the tinging .of tho nightingale, ab­ound that this record would suit 
his purposes and suggest the night­ingale. more' truthfully than the rocedure of: - wood win4 trills. So great was the success ot 
'The Pines of-Rome" when.lt was performed : by ,., £I.r. V KquseeviUfey 
and . hie- musicians at the regular ' concerts In .Boston, that- it was re- ¦ peated- The score ;is descriptive music, suggesting historical spots in the Eternal' City. .
' Other numbers in the' Friday 
light program include ;the Caesar Franck Symphony., in D minor; ' BerUo? Overture "Le Camaval Re­
main;" Suite from. , the Ballet “Chout” by Prokofleff, and Wag­ner’s Prelude to; “Lcfhengrla.” - . Tho Saturday afternoon program Includes TscbalkowBk7 Symphony - 
Stravinsky Orchestral Suite .from - the^Baliet' ,,Petrouch- 
ka;-”. Two NoclurheB. hy .Debussy, and. serenade for string orchestra.The-two concerts by the Boston Symphony .'Orchestra, will open the seven pairs by .visiting orchestras, under the auspices of. Ithe Pittsburgh Orchestra .Associa­tion, May-Baegle,manager.-
SAN CARLO GRAND OPERA
The,pan/C^rio- tcoiipe..comes to
tha Alvln hext week,.to,give Fills- biirgh'a llttie.gr'snd opera.,- Under the. able leadershlp-of Carlo Feronl,i ihterestiDg. series of opens will
unlimited pity for ùs- poor humai 
But,, he creates, puppets iu . hls plays instead of characters, who
arouiid. sayings ihlngB^ which/orthy, himself, wante to said instead of. helng. themsel ween the oldeç school, to.wl belong- Shaw, Barker, Galsworthy id J. M. Barrie and the younger 
schpol. of whïch modeaty permit- iur youthful speaker, to, say 
little, there is a distinct; gap;'into 
which perhaps Arlen and Lansdate might be fitted. ' ,,
Tuesday—'"FauBt” ; • . ' Wedabsday—Matinee, "Martha-'’ Wednesday evening—"La ; Fona del Destino."Thursday—“JUgoletto.” : v.Friday — "Cavalleria Rusticana" 
and. ‘'Pagliacci.” V-Saturday — Matinee, ' “Madame Btterfiy.’.*-- -. ••. Saturday, evening — ‘'Il.iTroyn*
' ENGLISH SINGERS
Tonight ^ the. English - Slngers wlll 3 - heard.- In , theCarnegie Music 
Hall as -the fiiat aitractlon of 'the Vr.t. Society’s,;coocert‘--series.- . A rery fine - program' ;ofi slxLeenth and
Igals, ' ballets, .- cflneonets',., - and French .chansons . flrtll j'-be '' given. Three • of -.the- directors; ;.of Uie Art Society are' from ; Cairiegle. .Tech. [which makea. .it; sort of .al family affair.'' -For the^ridlculpysly low price of 25 cents ; a',studeai. ticket can fee obtained .by seeing euVO Pawton In. the office. of the Depart- ment, of-MIVu8a U a U
GLEE CLUB AT CHAPEL.
The Glee Club Is making its first appearance this year at the , Chapel 
:ises Thursday- It'will be In­teresting • to 'obeefve'What^prpgreea the - organization-, ha's ^made- ander 
the -'Harvey'; Gaul! ;'regiffle,/- for we all hope.-the-. Gleestera -are/oii jtheir 
\vfty;to:,betterthln^'thIsy:ysy.,.;-‘
<—"* but use the 
^emiagìòn 
Portable
__ head, but you. can lighten the drudgery of writing
long reports, and theses 'by uaing a Remington -Portable.
: This handy typewriter. 13 “made to order” for students. '
. It'ls the lightest; most compact, simplest -to operate; and 
. caost dependable of portables. Has four-row-'standard 
keyhoaVd.Weigha.onljr 
¦:-8H •p6uncb1,‘'net..\
. You; cm tuck it. my/'ln 'a -' - tiot -Ia oniy'4 ^ricb«i. Ian be bought foi
(ContlDuèd From Pagc One) ' '.melbdraraa l.o attract blé;, audlsnce.Brandon ; Barker produces - works of ?. extfäyagant, ; different beati ty;. '-nothing',- u- doeé6bawi.; a^utmaklng • a. popular ' ap- i]
Galewbrthy, aay'a '. this 'eminent young playwright, ia very-food-tn technique ‘.'and - photographic - de­tail; his work- la timed an
WOODLAWN PHARMACY 
UN FORBES STREET • 
PITTSBURGH, VPA. 1
Remington Typewri(-»r Trntipany
BEUEMCR BUILDING, Itt J»|XTH STREET, PiTT»»URÄH,
