Dr. Warner Is Appointed 
Advisory Counsel For AEC
Dr. John Christian Warner, president of Carnegie Tech, was 
apopinted to the general advisory committee for the Atomic Energy 
Commission last week. Former head of the CIT chemistry depart­
ment, Dr. Warner served on the government staff during the war
and aided in the development of* 
the ‘Manhattan Project.’
It was a surprise to Dr. War­
ner to receive the telegram from 
President Truman, because the 
new appointments were not to be 
released until later in the fall. He 
also serves on the President’s Man­
power Commission, which is con­
cerned with the number of en-
gineers and scientists available to 
the US today.
Leave of Absence 
A leave of absence from Carne­
gie was granted Dr. Warner from 
1943-45 to serve on the Manhattan 
Project, which perfected the atom­
ic bombs dropped on Japan. He 
helped bring about the purification 
of plutonium.
During this period he also was 
engaged as a research co-ordinator 
between several US colleges in­
cluding the University of Califor­
nia, the University of Chicago, 
Iowa State college, and the Mas­
sachusetts Institute of Technology 
besides aiding the research pro­
gram at the Los Alamos proving 
grounds in New Mexico.
In addition to these govern­
mental positions, Dr. Warner is on 
the board of directors of Jones & 
Laughlin steel company and holds 
numerous civic offices.
’52 Homecoming Queen 
Voting Plan Announced
Freshman women will meet in recreation hall Dr. the fourth 
floor of MMCC to nominate queen candidates on October 1 at 4:30 
p.m. The homecoming queen and her court reign over the home­
coming weekend October 24-25 after being presented and crowned
at the Carnegie day program. ?--------------------------------------------------------
In an effort to conduct the vot­
ing as fairly and conveniently as\possible, the following plan is be­
ing followed:
1. As in the past, nine candidates 
will be chosen. A quota of nomi­
nees has been assigned each de­
partment according to the number 
of girls in it. These are:
No. of Girls Quota
Home Ec.504
Secretarial242
Gen. St.344
Gen. Sci.14. ^
Music102
Drama394
P&D and Arch.282
Totals19918
General Science and Music will 
vote as a group to select two girls, 
because they are the smallest de­
partments.
2. All the freshman women, after 
assembly in recreation hall, will 
go into various rooms where each 
department will select as many 
girls as their quota allows. As 
soon as this is done, everyone will 
go back to the hall, and the entire 
class will select nine of the eight­
een, regardless of department, as 
the nominees.
Cwens will conduct the meeting. 
Only those girls who have never 
attended college before are eligible 
to vote or be nominated. Trans­
fers with freshman standing, for 
instance, are not eligible.
Frosh Frolic
Each year, the sophomore 
class presents a party for all 
freshmen. This year the 
“Frosh Frolic” will be held on 
Friday, October 10 at 8:00 p.m. 
in Thistle hall. There will be 
dancing with music supplied 
by the nine-piece DU band, 
entertainment, and refresh­
ments. Freshman officer and 
homecoming queen candidates 
will be introduced.
All frosh are invited—wan­
der over after the pep rally 
with or without an escort. Ad­
mission is free and dress is 
casual.
Mortar Board 
Plans Weekend
A spectacular homecoming 
weekend is being planned by 
Mortar Board, senior women’s 
honorary, fov October 24-25. Many 
alumni return to Carnegie Tech 
each year and join the students 
in the weekend celebration. Out­
standing improvements on the 
campus will undoubtedly interest 
a large number to attend this 
year.
The general co-chairmen of the 
weekend, Pat Miller and Norma 
Trust, have chosen Eunice Brunn 
to plan the Carnegie day program 
to take place Friday afternoon, 
October 24. Margaret Figner will 
assist Cweris in the queen election 
and coronation procedure.
The traditional Friday night 
pep rally will be arranged by 
Jeanne Corcoran. Ruth Cooper is 
in charge of fraternity house dec­
oration competition.
The semi-formal, dance to be 
held in the gym Saturday night is 
being planned by Virginia Somer- 
aille. Tickets will be sold by 
Joanne O’Keefe, and the budget 
will be handled by Dottie Boarts.
An exciting part of the week­
end will be the Forbes field foot­
ball game with Case Institute of 
Technology.
Band Trip
Tech students will give their 
whole-hearted support to send 
our Kiltie band to the Bethany 
game. This is not a one way 
proposition since all CIT stu­
dents buying tickets to the 
game will have reserved seats. 
Student Council is selling tick­
ets at $1 per seat, of which 18 
cents goes for federal tax and 
the remaining 82 cents sup­
ports the Kiltie band’s trip. 
There are 200 tickets to be 
sold for the game on October 4.
Freshman Women
All freshman women from 
Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts will meet in recreation 
hall on the fourth floor of the 
Margaret Morrison building 
Wednesday afternoon, October 
1, at 4:30 p.m. The purpose of 
the meeting is to nominate 
candidates for Homecoming 
queen.
by Dave Hubbard
Last Wednesday’s Student Council meeting saw such issues 
brought up as the supervision of freshman elections, the sponsoring 
of a freshman dance, the question of awarding activity keys, the 
financial report of different publications on campus, and as usual, 
enforcement of freshman régula-#---------------------------------------------------------
tions.
After some discussion it was de­
cided that the sophomores could 
use Student Council funds to 
sponsor a freshman dance, the 
“Frosh Frolic” on October 11.
Photo by Snyderman
Carnegie's Kiltie Band
One of the many half-time formations
Kiltie Band Planning Colorful, 
Interesting Half Time Shows
generous to the layman, but in 
reality the freshman are paying for 
their own dance.
Dink Profit
The fact was brought out that 
Student Council made over $250, 
solid profit, from the sale of dinks. 
The “Frosh Frolic” will follow the 
meeting at which nominations for 
freshman officers are to be made. 
On October 22 the freshman elec­
tions will take place.
Bill Stewart moved that the 
chairman of the intra-school pub­
licity committee be awarded an 
automatic activities key. Dick 
Durstine pointed out that the com­
mittee was newly organized and 
that the motion should be tabled 
for at least one year. He believes 
that it will take a year to evalu­
ate the work involved with the 
office.
Motion Defeated
Miss Trust,' head of the intra- 
school publicity committee, coun­
tered by reading the duties for 
which her office was responsible, 
but she was overruled and the mo­
tion tabled.
Durstine, as head of the publica­
tion’s committee, reported that all 
publications for the current year 
of 1952-53 were financially in the 
black. Freshman regulations chair­
man Phil Drew related with sadis­
tic joy the shanghaiing of unpre- 
[Continued on page 8]
Drama Season
Starts October 22
by Jo Forsythe
The colorful Kiltie band will be seen during half time at all 
football games this season. This is the first time in many years 
that suitable arrangements could be made to appear at both home
and away games. The Kiwanis club of Wellsburg, W. Va., where j First Production 
next Saturday’s game with Beth- ? 
any will be played, is paying half 
the band’s transportation. Student 
Council is helping defray costs 
by sale of tickets.
Receive Dinner 
Prior to the Bethany game, the 
Kilties will parade in the main 
streets of Wellsburg. Following 
the stadium performance, Kiwan- 
ians will be host to the band at 
a dinner.
Colorful Half-Time
During half-time ceremonies, 
the Kilties saluted California j ncgie drama department will be
The first production of the Car-
State Teachers college by forming 
a large C inside a diamond while 
playing the “Hello March.” Fol­
lowing this came a sequence of
words: (1) VULCAN (2) -------IZE
(3) THEM (4) TECH to the ac­
companiment of “California, Here 
I Come.” Familiar sounds of the 
bagpipers were heard as the men 
The Kiltie band, sans uniform, j swung into formation of the
Scotch thistle, Tech’s school flow­
er, and a “CT.” The Alma Mater, 
played in the last formation, end­
ed the half-time manuevers.
made their first marching appear­
ance before the student body at 
the Friday night pep rally, tradi­
tionally parading from the Fine 
Arts building to Morewood Gar­
dens and the Tech bowl.
“Ring - Around the Moon,” to be 
presented during homecoming 
week. The play was written by 
Jean Anouilh and the translation 
is by Christopher Fry. Directed 
by Mr. Henry Boettcher, this de­
lightful comedy will open on Oc­
tober 22 and will run until No­
vember 1.
Tickets will be given out to stu-> 
dents in the same manner as in 
previous years, one ticket for each 
ID card presented, and a maxi­
mum of two tickets to be picked
I up by any one student. Watch the 
Although several members bulletin boards for notices as to 
graduated, the band has not de- when and where to pick up 
[Continued on page 2\ ; tickets.
Dr. John Christian Warner
Carnegie Tech’s president advises AEC
Student Council Studies Iissues, 
Dink Funds Will Sponsor Dance
Frosh Regulations, Activity Keys Discussed 
No Immediate Actions To Be Taken By GroupVOL. 46—No. 3 CARNEGIE INSTITUE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., SEPT. 30, 1952

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 30, 1952o
WRCT Plans Programs 
For Student Pleasure
Gather round your radios everyone, and listen to another week 
of fine entertainment over WRCT. Here are a few musts on your 
schedule of WRCT listening. Between 6:15 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. on 
Wednesday night there is a program of delicious discs on Record 
Rendezvous. The disc jockey spin-#---------------------------------------------------------
ning platters in both the semi- 
classical and popular mood is 
Grace Clinton.
The Fiddle Faddlers arrive on 
the scene at 10:15 p.m. for your 
laughing pleasure. There’s a zany 
group on hand to keep a broad 
smile on your face for 60 minutes.
Set your dial so you won’t miss 
the train, Jim Boyden’s Night 
Train that is, on Tuesday at 10:00 
p.m. You won’t want to miss any 
of Jim’s chatter between your 
favorite platters.
WRCT
Selicdule
Wednesday, October 1
6:00—On the Air 
6:05—News
6:15—Record Rendezvous 
8:00—Talk Your Way Out Of It 
8:30—Proudly We Hail 
9:00—Folk Music 
10:00—Sports and Music 
10:15—The Fiddle Faddlers 11:15—News 
11:30—Off the Air
Thursday, October 2
6:00—On the Air 
6:05—News
6:15—Stars on Parade 
7:30—Wichman Opera 
9:00—Sports and Music 
9:15—Ed Eld’s Discs 
10:00—Listen to Lacey 
11:15—News 
11:30—Off the Air
Friday, October 3
6:00—On the Air 
6:05—News
6:15—Discs with Dolores 
7:00—Music Extraordinary
8:30—Science Fiction 
9:15—Gillette 
10:00—Sports and Music 
11:15—News 
11:30—Off the Air
Saturday, October 4
6:00—On the Air 
6:15—News6:30—The Bob Barash Show 
8:00—Campus Highlights 
8:15—Music 
9:00—The WKJF Tape 
11:15—News 
11:30—Off the Air
Sunday, October 5 
1:00—On the Air 
1:05—News1:15—Platters and Chatter 
3:00—Symphony Program 
5:00—News, Music, Campus Big Wheels 
5:30—Adventures in Research 
5:45-—Serenade in Blue 6:00—The Symphony Hour 
9:00—WRCT Miniature Theatre 
10:00—Musical Variety 
11:15—News 
11:30—Off the Air
Monday, October 6
6:00—On the Air 
6:05—News
6:15—Twenty Questions 
7:00—A Dramatic Show 
7:30—Novak’s Nightmares 
9:00—Enosupo 10:00—Sports and Music 
10:15—Don’s Dixie Discings 
11:15—News 
11:30—Off the Air
Election Notice
Nomination petitions for 
freshman class officers are 
now available in the Dean of 
Students office, IH 144. They 
must be returned to the Dean 
of Students office no later than 
Friday, October 10 at 4:30 
p.m.
The election will be held on 
Wednesday, October 22.
Petitions for the office of 
president, secretary, and 
treasurer must contain 40 
freshman signatures, 10 from 
each college.
Four vice-presidents will be 
elected. One each from En­
gineering and Science, Mar­
garet Morrison, Fine Arts, and 
Humanistic and Social Studies. 
These petitions must contain 
15 signatures.
Freshman can sign only one 
petition for each office to be 
filled.
All full-time freshman are 
eligible.
Richard R. Christensen 
Student Council 
Election Chairman
Homecoming
There will be a meeting of 
the Homecoming display 
chairman of each organization 
planning to enter this year’s 
contest next Monday at 4:30 
p.m. in room A of the Union.
Sorority Rushing Rules
The following are rushing rules for sororities:
Each rushee must obtain a ballot from the Dean of Women’s 
office on which she will list her preferences. The ballot must be 
filed in the office by 10:30 a.m. Monday, October 20, 1952. Anyone 
who does not submit her ballot of preference by that time will not 
be accepted until the next rushing season unless otherwise indi­
cated to the Dean of Women. It is very important to fill in all 
preferences.
The lists of the sororities and those of the rushees will then 
be matched by the Dean of W’omen, and the results w’ill be given 
to the sororities at 3:00 p.m., Monday, October 20, 1952. There shall 
be no discussion of the list with anyone not affiliated with the 
sorority.
Rushees may pick up their invitation at 4:30 p.m., Monday, 
October 20, and must answer wTith written acceptance or regret by 
5:00 p.m. in the Dean of W’omen’s office.
IF NO BID
Any girl who fails to file a ballot on time or pick up her bid on 
time will be considered ineligible to join a sorority until the next 
formal rushing period. She shall be eligible for informal rushing. 
Any girl who fails to make a reply on time will be considered in­
eligible to join a sorority for one rushing season.
If a girl does not receive a bid from any of the sororities listed 
on her preferential ballot, she is eligible at any future time to be 
rushed informally, provided she meets all eligibility requirements 
at that time.
After a rushee has given her word in writing to pledge to a 
particular sorority, it shall be considered a violation of the standards 
of ethical conduct for a member of any other sorority to suggest or 
even talk to her concerning repudiation of such an agreement. Any 
violation shall be reported to Panhellenic Council.
A rushee shall not, under any circumstances, expect or accept 
a bid to a sorority before 4:30 p.m. October 20, 1952, nor shall a 
sorority make any commitments to a rushee.
Luncheon and dinner dates are permissible during informal 
rushing and during the formal rushing period, which is from Septem­
ber 21 until the beginning of silence period at 10:30 p.m. Sunday, 
October 19.
SILENCE RULES EXPLAINED
Silence period begins Sunday, October 19, at 10:30 p.m., and 
ends Monday, October 20, at 6:00 p.m. This period of silence will 
be maintained by all actives, pledges not yet initiated, and rushees. 
“Silence” is interpreted as meaning no communication direct or in­
direct by note, word, telephone, with the exception of “hello” in 
passing.
There is to be no communication in the dormitory at any time 
between actives, pledges not yet initiated, and rushees. There will 
be no sorority social gatherings for rushees, other than those parties 
scheduled during formal rushing, September 21 to October 20 in­
clusive. Rushing is to be based on the honor system for both sorority 
and rushee.
If a rushee is a roommate of a sorority girl, each must use her 
own discretion in maintaining the honor system. If this sorority 
girl has visitors of her sorority or of another sorority, no conversa­
tions are permitted in the presence of the rushee during silence 
period. Discretion in maintaining the honor system is also to be 
applied in the case of commuters.
There will be no social telephone calls between members of 
sororities and rushees from September 21 to Octobr 20 inclusive, 
other than calls for the purpose of making luncheon dates.
Ten Fraternities 
Announce Final 
Pledging List
Additional pledges of the Car­
negie fraternities announced last 
week are:
Alpha Tau Omega—Bart Bar- 
tocci, Ray Prell, Bill Barkley, Mal­
colm Gillies, Jim Tilbrook, Chuck 
Willard.
Beta Sigma Rho—Joe Harris, 
Murray Susser, Arthur Armstrong, 
Mel Levinson, Paul Berger, Don 
Schneider, LeRoy Miller, Harvey 
Sniderman, Joe Vile, Al Wasser- 
man, Arnold Wasserman, Bob 
Barash, Gary Smith, Gerald Ber­
man, Arnold Brockman, Mike 
Green, Herschel Kanter, Robert 
Englemore, Herb Gardner, Ed 
Pomerantz, David Fischer.
Beta Theta Pi—Jim Plugge, 
Tom Ascher, Jim Gore, Pete Hitch­
cock, Dave Hummer.
Delta Upsilon—Robert Ciccone, 
Kenneth Winston, David Hubbard, 
John Marchiando, Charlie Hast­
ings, Robert ^.indsay, William 
Branscome, Walter Ender, James 
Morgan, Donald Croucher, Joseph 
Delahanty.
Kappa Sigma—Jim Glenn, Rob­
ert Kiefer, Roy de Vries, Marshall 
Brown, Bud Karcher, Dan Saxton, 
Norm Teslik, Paul Birdsall, Robert 
Warren, Sigvard Lanstrow, Harry 
Stutzman, Robert Regina, Marcus 
Diniaco, Wesley Folsom.
Phi Kappa—Bob McLaughlin, 
John Senko, Carl Zovko.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Don Clif­
ford, Chris Cook, Bill Cooper, Carl 
Detwiler, Dick Foley, Earl Gose, 
Claude Greig, Glen Henricksen,
Kilties-
[Continued from page 1] 
pleted its ranks. The marching 
enlistment is maintained at 104, 
last year’s enrollment. Despite a 
recent case of food poisoning 
which kept the piper director, 
Mr. Davidson, in bed for a few 
days, there was a record turnout 
of 14 candidates for piper posi­
tions.
Two Engagements
In addition to a busy schedule 
of games and pep rallies, two 
engagements for October are on 
the band’s calendar. On October
2 the Kilties will play a short 
concert following a pipe parade 
for the Shriners in Syria Mosque. 
They will also play on Carnegie 
day which is the Friday preceding 
homecoming.
Representative of the great 
popularity the Kiltie band enjoys 
in Pittsburgh, Mr. Cantrick has 
received many requests for the 
group’s appearance in public.
George Roddam, Bob Solbach.
Sigma Nu—Fred Herges, Wil­
liam Stevenson, Bob Norton, Joel 
Sussman, Hunter Caffee.
Tau Delta Phi—Don Gross, Alan 
Zuckerwar, Gene Netzer.
Theta Xi—Harold Reer.issnyder, 
Paul Zeigler, Louis Teti, Bill 
Louros, John Deahl, Bob Licht, 
Jim Armstrong, Howard Snoke, 
Chuck McKee, Dick Eppler, Carl 
Jones, John Bover, Ralph Stimp- 
son, George Fischer, Pat Patterson, 
Donald Rohall, Dave Larson, Tom 
Tetrick, George Brennen, John 
Fiscus, Robert Line, Gil Grock, 
Walt Christenson, Everett Smith, 
Jack Reilly, Harry Elder, Bob Tu- 
zik.
o
ROTC Offers 
Men Activities
The Carnegie Tech ROTC or­
ganization, under the leadership 
of Col. Morris, has initiated a 
full program of activities for the 
enjoyment and participation of 
the ROTC students.
Three rifle teams will be formed 
to compete against each other, 
the outstanding members of which 
will be offered a spot on the CIT 
varsity rifle squad, which will 
take part in inter-collegiate 
competition with other ROTC 
units.
The ROTC band is now being 
organized, as are various pistol 
and firing clubs.
Enrollment statistics, as releas­
ed by the military department, 
show that 260 freshmen, or about 
80 per cent of those eligible, have 
taken military science, the highest 
number of freshmen ever to be 
enrolled in the Tech ROTC. Out 
of a total cadet enrollment of 
635, 55 are seniors, and 97 are of 
the junior class. From these ad­
vanced course members, cadet offi­
cers will be chosen to lead the 
regiments in the field.
Although the burden of instruc­
tion has increased greatly, there 
is substantially no change in the 
personnel of the military depart­
ment. Some new faces, however, 
seen around the ROTC office in­
clude Maj. Bates C. Burnell, SFC 
Albert L. Harvey, and SFC Joha 
R. Canose.
o
VJORLO’S SPUD CHMMM
The easiest-writing 
portable ever built!
Royal Portable hold* the official World's 
Portable Speed Championship as shown 
in the current World's almanac.
See it Here,,.
Terms as low as SJ.25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue AT 1-8320
— SUPPLIES — 
REPAIRS — RENTALS
Whaf* 
happened 
-fothe. 
old rah rah 
spirtf-?
IT WENT OUT WITH RACCOON COATS and
rumble seats. And we say good 
riddance.
Today’s college man doesn’t die 
a thousand deaths when the school 
loses the big game. And his clothes 
are no longer flashy, fancy and 
gaudy.
For his apparel, he looks to 
Manhattan9 to reflect his quiet, self- 
assured manner... his insistence
on quality Comfort and casualness.
Like this button-down Oxford 
with just the proper roll to the 
collar. Or this fine white piqué with 
an eyelet tab collar with just the 
right degree of difference.
We understand the modem col­
lege man. We concentrate our 
efforts, not on fads, but on making 
a better shirt. Ask for Manhattan 
... and you’ll see how true this is.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 30, 1952—CARNEGIE TARTAN Page S
Frosh Policy Aided By Upperclasses
Dinkless Frosh ¡Sweep 
Leaf-Strewn Sidewalk
Jubiliant Freshmen Aid Building & Grounds Department photos by Don Hand 
Following the convocation assembly last Tuesday, at which freshman attendance was required, 
many upperclassmen were on hand to issue implements of cleanliness to those plebes who had forgot­
ten to wear their dinks.
Drinking Fountains At Tech— 
Drink With Care—Or Else!
by Bob McQuaid
Many of the mechanical wonders of the “Atomic Age” present 
varied dangers, especially to budding engineers. For the benefit of 
these freshmen who worry not, being content in their omniscience, 
we propose to compose a series of articles to outline these dangers.
One of these traps which the* 
freshmen meet every few steps in
the various buildings are the many 
electric water fountains. The dan­
gers here are disguised but they 
can have dire consequences.
Main Trouble
The main trouble encountered 
here is due to the lack of knowl­
edge of the correct way to get the 
water from the fountain into the 
mouth. Any freshman engineer 
who has diligently studied his al­
gebra realizes that the water arcs 
out of the fountain in a curve 
formulated by y-4=4(x-l)2. Of 
course, other corrections should be 
added to account for changes in 
pressure and temperature. How­
ever, these corrections can be 
more considered negligible for our 
purposes. At any rate, there are 
three different places to attack 
this stream of water, at x— 
x=l and x—3/2. These corre­
spond respectively.to the water go­
ing up, the water at the peak of 
the arc, and the water coming 
down.
At each point, there are differ­
ent problems. The water comes 
to the first point with such force 
that much sprays out of the 
mouth and splatters the necktie. 
However, one advantage is that no 
work is needed to get the water 
into the mouth and, for this rea­
son, this is the lazy man’s spot.
May Wash Face
On the other hand, at the third 
point the water stream spreads 
and often sprays the drinker’s 
face. So, this is often used for a 
dual purpose, to satisfy thirst and 
to wash the face simultaneously.
The happy medium seems to be
Graduate Students 
May Apply For 
Fulbright Awards
Senior and graduate students 
who want information about Ful­
bright awards or wish to apply 
for an award for graduate study 
abroad during the academic year 
1953-54 should see the campus
, by Phil Drew
Last week the upperclassmen of Carnegie Tech moved into high 
gear in their war aginst corruption in the Freshman Class. Incensed 
over the reportedly large number of freshmen without their dinks 
and nametags, an estimated 6000 men and women of the sopho­
more, junior, and senior classes*
showed their strength in a brief j through on an inspection tour, oc- 
skirmish designed to get the frosh casionally brushing the walk with 
to wear their dinks.
As the freshmen emerged from 
the convocation assemblies (in­
doctrination programs for the 
Carnegie Plan) hundreds of up-
their white-gloved fingertips to 
check for perfect cleanliness.
All Smiles 
The freshmen, however, bore 
their humility with a smile. There
perclassmen concealed in the cat- j were exceptions—notably the girl 
acombs sprang forth, coralled the ! (allegedly a dramat) who said.
bareheaded frosh, and herded 
them to the hallowed precincts of 
the Senior Walk.
Armed With Brooms 
Owing to a caprice of Mother
“We don’t wear dinks. We don’t 
conform.”
Nevertheless, the maneuver was 
declared an unqualified success. 
The number of freshmen wearing 
Westwind, the walk had become their dinks, previously estimated
struck at the second point, x=l 
Here the water reaches its crest i Fulbright adviser, Professor R. E.j Parshall, AH 260, as soon as pos- 
I sible.and danger of splashing is min­
imized. One warning, however— 
i slurping the water up is not con­
sidered correct etiquette.
| There are other miscellaneous 
warnings that should be made 
here. Beware of the foot pedal. 
It is hard and quite painful to ex­
tricate a toe when caught between 
the pedal and the bottom of the
j covered with sycamore leaves, 
j The freshmen, armed with brooms 
j and brushes, began the ignomini­
ous task of sweeping the walk 
j under the watchful eye of their 
• captors.
This action was necessary be-
as less than 50 per cent, soared. 
In less than 24 hours the number 
increased to 92 per cent.
Then It HJt 
But the battle was not over. 
Hundreds of freshmen, beaten and 
humiliated, swore revenge. Late
Applications must be completed 
and submitted not later than Oc­
tober 1, 1952. Some 800 awards 
will be made throughout the 
United States. There is no re­
striction as to field of studv.
It would be well for interested 
students to discuss this subject 
with the department head of their 
major field before they confer
cause the seniors were getting • that night they struck. The senior 
. their shoes excessively dirty. Said ; walk was labeled freshman walk, 
j one spokesman of the senior! upperclassmen forbidden. The 
j class, “This action was necessary' senior fence was defiled by nails 
i because the seniors were getting placed to impale anyone who sat 
i their shoes excesr-ively dirty.” j on it along with a dog-in-the- 
As the masses worked, strains 1 manger sign stating, “I“' we can’t 
I of Carnegie Tech songs sung in ! use it, neither can yo’
Freshman Day
Saturday, October 18 
(changed from the 11th), will 
be Freshman day. Watch for 
it!
casing and upperclassmen become w*^h P10iess0r Parshall 
quite annoyed at freshmen monop- I ¦ - !
olizing the water.
Take Special Care
Special care must be exercised 
in filling a glass with water at a 
Skibo fountain. Quite often the 
person reaches diagonally across 
the fountain with his right hand 
while he pushes the button on the 
vertical faucet with his left. Often, 
however, he inadvertently treads 
on the foot pedal and in so doing 
soaks his right forearm and sleeve.
Countless profane words have re­
sulted from this in the few years 
since this diabolical machine was 
invented.
Beware, O budding engineer, of 
the wiles of electric drinking foun­
tain. Its countless traps will snare 
you if you obey not the sugges­
tions given here.
Moral: Carry a canteen at all 
times.
Your I.D. CARD Means
L eaa 0n Jewelry¦ ^ ® wTT Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
For the BEST
—in— 
Photographic 
Equipment and Supplies
LibertyPhoto 
Supply
GR 1-6467 ¦ • 436 Wood St.
LET’S GO TO
ISALY S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
rich harmony rose from a thou­
sand throats. Unfortunately, no 
sooner had the freshmen cleaned 
the walk, than the fickle breeze 
blew the leaves back on. Several 
wheels of the school strolled
However, the freshman strat­
agem was regarded in most cir­
cles as pretty innocuous. Said one 
sophomore, “I hope they can Jo 
better than this. We dare them 
all!”
TECH CANTERBURY HOUSE
5170 MARGARET MORRISON ST.
Sunday Suppers and Discussions, 6:00 P. M. 
Holy Communion (Episcopal) Thursday, 7:30 A. M.
CHURCH OF THE REDEEMER
* 5700 FORBES STREET
Sunday Services 8, 9:30, 11:00 A. M.
HUGH S. CLARK, Rector
ALL STUDENTS WELCOME
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Creara-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
sates TVDCUfDITCDC °ffice
Service | | T k W 111 I ELIIO Supplies
NEW PORTABLES for RENT
WEEK MONTH TERM 
FREE DELIVERY and PICK-UP SERVICEPHONE MU—2-3956
ALLIED OFFICE MACHINES CO.
3806 FORBES STREET
HIRI’S a sad Lobster tale. Sheedy was really in hot water. His 
girl kept saying, "The Maine thing I don't like about you is the 
way you pot your hair! Haven’t you red about Wildroot Cream- 
Boil Hair Tonic? Non-alcoholic. Relieves annoying dryness. 
Removes loose, ugly dandruff. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail 
Test. Perfect for you 'claws you need Lanolin on that water- 
soaked hair.” Paul got Wildroot Cream-Oil and now he shore 
looks slick. In fact, he's in salad with every girl on campus So 
if you're net-tied about your messy hair, butter shell out 291 at 
any toilet goods counter for a bottle or tube of Wildroot Cream- 
Oil, "Your Hair's Best Friend.” Ask for it at your barber’s an­
tenna to one you’ll be tickled pink!
^ •/151 So. Hams Hill Rd., Williamsvillr, N. V 
WHdroot Company,,inc., Buffalo
t i Ile, N. Y 
11, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTA 1W—Tuesday, September 30, 1952
Letters—
Shakespeare Answers
Editor, the Tartan:
May we rag you with a bit of Shakespeare?
—Since nothing so stockish, herd, and 
full of rage,
But MUSIC for the time doth change 
his nature
The man that hath no MUSIC in 
himself,
Nor is not mov'd with concord of sweet 
sounds.
Is fit for treasons, stratageins, and 
spoil,
The motions of his spirit are dull as 
night and his affections dark as 
Erebiis,
Let no such man be trusted.
Merchant of Venice 
Sincerely,
Julie A. Foster 
Gloria Sipe
(Editor's note—The above letter pertains to 
the letter published last week by an “Irate Cap- ' 
tain of Industry” concerning the disturbance caus­
ed in the new IA building by the practicing music 
students.)
All Hail Alma Mater!
Editor, the Tartan:
It was with great reluctance that I stood during 
the half-time ceremonies of the California game 
and listened to the miserable chanting of our Alma 
Mater. Outside of the freshmen, no student has an 
excuse for not knowing the words. J thought I 
might be able to do my school a small favor by 
having you print the words^
The Alma Mater
Here where spangled wildernesses 
Robed the mountains of the west,
Where the savage strife and stresses 
Brought the settlers’ crimson quest;
Land of legend, glory, graces,
Gypsy tide and rolling shore,
‘Mid thy hilltops Alma Mater,
Stands enthroned forevermore,
Hail Carnegie; Alma Mater—
Stand enthroned forevermore.
One more little thing that w^ould bring great 
joy to this humble reader of your “sheet” during 
the football games would be the announcing of the 
band formations. I realize that this is impossible 
while the band is playing, but during those lapses 
where they toot for cadence only, the announcer 
could briefly say what was going to be done (or 
had been done).
Sincerely,
A Loyal Senior
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557, after hours MUseum
1-5380: for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti­
tute -jf Tehnology. Pittsburgh 13, Pa
Editor-In-Chief ...................................................... Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager ............. .................................. David Goldsmith
Managing Editor ....................................................... Dick Durstine
C'®-Sports Editors ............................ Walt Wagner, Frank Fegley
News Editor ................................................................ Estelle Herlick
Personnel Manager—Dick Christensen. Features Editor—Bill 
Smith. Advertising Manager—Stan Rosenberg. Assistant Busi­
ness Manager—Jerry Seiner. Circulation Manager—Joe Le-
Marca. Photography Editor—Martin Snyderman. Reporters—
Ann Parker, Sheila Sullivan. Jack Armour, Robert McQuaid. 
Joan Cummerton, Jane Sunder. Marilyn Seiner, Dave Hub­
bard. Allan Suria, Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner, Ken Win­
ston. Cub Reporters—Barbara Leonard. Pat Maw, Jo Forsythe. 
Sports Reporters—Larry Summerill, Ed Feigenbaum, Bob
Steiger, Peter Paridick, Gene O’Reilly, Dick Eppler. Copy 
Reader -Paul Carmichael. Cub Reporters—Mildred Magura. 
Eunice Brunn, Dick Kendrik, Arlene Rosenberg. Art Staff— 
Joan Brechin, Nelson Kelley, Dick Stahl. Photegraphers- 
Barbara Toia, Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gregory. 
Feature Staff—Andrew Stedry. Typist—Elayne Nord. Make­
up Staff—Ellroy Wilhaber, Don Wildman, Bea Pollock. Head­
ing Staff—Dan Byers, Van Andersen, Pat -Naugle. Advertising 
Staff—Bruce Steinhart. Edward Clark. Circulation Staff—Dick 
Guarino, Jay Levy.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD­
VERTISING, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave . New Vork City. Subscription $1.10 per year 
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at 
? he Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro­
vided for in the Act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated College Pres«.
Interest Sets The Pace
On the way home from the opening football game last 
weekend we mingled with other CIT students and listened j 
to the various opinions on Carnegie’s gridiron might (or! 
lack of it according to some). But everyone possessed a 
little of that mysterious quality we hear so much ’about 
and of which, we’re told, we have so little—school spirit. 
Some said we shouldn’t have passed then, others wished 
the coaches had let someone play who didn’t; but all-in-all, 
each was proud of CIT’s team and satisfied with the sched­
ule, lack of scholarships, etc.
We found the complainers after a little investigation. 
They had not been to the football game, but had been lis­
tening to ‘the big games’, studying, or watching the Panthers 
troucne the Hawkeyes. These are the sports fiends of the 
Tech campus who live in a world whose glories they’ll 
never realize. Every evening they read the newspapers and 
then rave about Princeton, Maryland, or other schools, which 
in their eyes represent the maximum in athletic prowess. 
However, they soon turn their thoughts and words to Tech 
and voice wishes for athletic scholarships, a big stadium, 
and a big time schedule.
If these students are so interested in changing the athletic 
setup at Carnegie, there is only one way to make themselves 
heard. Seems the administration found out long ago not to listen 
to all the renovations proposed by sections of the student body. 
What they want to see is action. If only half of the students 
attend football games, rallies, etc., why should the school spend 
a large proportion of everyone’s tuition on athletics? Those who 
want the football (or for that matter, any student activity) im­
proved must get out and make themselves heard at pep rallies 
and games. Then, too, they had better sound more enthusiastic 
in talking to people around town about the football prospects. 
Our athletic budget could stand a nice hike if many of Pitts­
burgh’s football lovers could be diverted to Forbes Field.
However, if this dissatisfied bunch should begin to sit 
in the football swing at Tech, they would soon find out that 
we have a wonderful arrangement with no need for ex­
pansion. Too many are more interested in talking big foot­
ball at home and among each other than having a program 
fitted to the school’s needs. In fact, considering the academic 
load thrown at us, it’s lucky the school devotes as much 
time and money to the pigskin sport as it does.
Many of the technologists around here like to com­
pare Carnegie to MIT and Cal Tech. The scholastic burden 
at each is hard to rate, but all must be equal. Their gov­
erning fathers don’t even let athletics interfere with class- 
work. It also might be interesting to see what caliber of 
students we could draw here with athletic scholarships in 
the big-time level. Any athletes we lured to the Tartan 
team who weren’t, selected for scholastic ability would be 
out before they earned their numerals.
Crawling over on the other side of the fence for a 
minute, we find that the boys who tote the ball up and down 
he field are very well satisfied with the status quo. Men- 
on more practice, more competition for starting, and they 
eally groan. These guys represent the football world at 
Tech and they’re playing because they love the game; nc:: 
to be, with, or play against professionals.
Inquiring Reporter—
What Scot Needs
by Ken Winston
The following question was asked around campus 
during the past week: What type of articles would 
you like to see in the “new” Scot?
Dick Dickerson, physical chemistry senior— 
“The new Scot, if it isn’t to go 
the way of previous issues, must ir'r>' 
be designed to sell. It shouldn’t 
be propped up financially by 
the school, and degenerate into 
a glorified carnival program.
In order to sell, it has to ap-
peal to the students. For this
reason, I think it should con-
centrate on humor instead of Jil® M i
“varieties,” for the most part. ^ J
Good humor has an almost uni- m
versal appeal, while varieties—
sports, news, fashions, and feature articles—unless 
extremely well written, are often only dull.
“Several good writers have shown up in the 
Tartan. Durstine’s John J. John series on Tech 
life is an example of some of the best original 
humor to show up at Tech in some time. That 
type of writing, satires on Tech and Pittsburgh, 
good cartoons—syndicated or stolen if necessary- 
plus varieties-type articles for special events such 
as Carnival, could build a Scot which would be 
interesting, and might last.”
Gus Alexy, music junior.—“The Scot has never 
been interesting to the students 
llv.;as a whole, but rather to a 
small minority running the 
magazine. In the ‘new Scot* 
I would like to see some real 
short stories, something that 
has real plot and interest, some 
Hi good material for laughs and 
some all around campus infor­
mation—maybe publicity of or­
ganizations by a short history 
and some action photos of the 
group.
“In answer to your question about continuing 
the Scot as a humor publication—I have never 
been impressed by what some call humor. I’ve 
bought every issue but one and still can’t figure 
out where the humor is. My opinion is that what 
Tech needs is a magazine to interest everyone, 
something that will sell itself by its contents. Tech 
students aren’t interested to too many extra things, 
so this will have to be tops to sell. Also—college 
students are always looking for material for bull 
sessions—Why not give it to them?”
“Bim” Seibert, civil eng. senior—“Neither peri­
odic reports of campus events 
and conditions, nor printed mat­
ter of a purely technical nature, 
nor variety type literature, 
functioning singly, can grant 
the appeal of our student body.
However, a properly balanced 
combination of these three is 
excellently equipped to satisfy 
the individual student’s desire 
to be posted, enlightened, and 
entertained. It is my candid 
opinion that all three types of
literary endeavor are essential if sufficient oppor­
tunity is to be given many of us, who are so 
interested, to participate, according to our choice, 
in the various phases integrated into the final pro­
duction of a college publication.
“In keeping with the above contentions, it is 
my sincere hope and aim to see our Tartan, Tech­
nical, Thistle, Plaid, and others augmented by a
Scot whose contribution to its readers will be a%variety constellation of wholesome humor, creative 
writing, fashions and art, sports, current events— 
in essence, palatable food for thought—with the 
Tech campus as center of its orbit.”
Jerry Lisovich, EE freshman—“Being a fresh­
man and new to Tech, I have
never seen a ‘Scot’, so I don’t
know just what it was like.
However, I think that any norw
technical" magazine should ap­
peal to the whole campus and 
m&m n°t 3ust to a small clique. I
pi like to see lots of illustrations
JJ W - in a magazine. I think perhaps
* ^ some cartoons also help liven
\ 1 UP Scot. As far as features,
4 wt i i think possibly a girl or boy
of the month would center 
more interest on the Scot.
“Having not seen very many issues of the Scot 
' cannot say whether or not I think it should re- 
nain a humor magazine, however, if the Scot 
continues in its policy of clean, wholesome humor 
hen I feel that it should definitely remain a humor 
aagazine—providing of course that it would, with 
the policy, have enough appeal.”

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 30, 1952—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre S
California S.T.C. Jinx Holds 
Fumbling Scots9 27-21
Tartans Rally Late, But Run Out of Time; Natali’s 73 
Yard Scoring Dash in Third Period Clinches Victory
The Carnegie Tartans lost an uphill fight in their initial contest«*-
of the ’52 season to the Vulcans from California S.T.C., 27-21.
Led by their star fullback, bruising Elmo Natali, who bludgeoned 
the Plaid defense for an average of 6.5 yards per carry in 23 at­
tempts, the Red and Black took —---------------------------------------------------
a cmomanding lead of 14-0 in 
the second quarter and were
never headed. Their cause was 
also aided by two interceptions 
and the recovery of four CIT fum­
bles.
Standouts on offense for the 
Clan were Irv Schecter and Gil 
Dissen on the ground while Ed 
Miller put on arL aerial display. 
Dissen’s 50 yard run was Tech’s 
longest gain.
Shortly after the opening of the 
second quarter, the Scots second 
miscue opened the way for the 
first Vulcan score. Taking the 
ball on the Tartan 21, Natali led 
his team to paydirt, carrying over 
from the 1 yard line. Grandy’s 
conversion made the score 7-0.
Shortly after the return kick- 
off, a Plaid fumble set up by the 
second of Cal’s T.D.’s. Taking over 
on the Tartans 24, it took only 
three plays before Natali hit the
Lineups
CIT
Ends—Zigenfuss, Pakos, Craig,' Selav- ko.
Tackles—Williamson, Galanda, Stahle, McCarthy, Reuther.
Guards—Shermeyer, Vodenichar, Kar- 
Cher, Katz.
Center—Schell, Fuelgraf.
Backs—Griffiths, Blatt, Blumfeldt, 
Miller, Peoples, Schechter, Kennedy, Eis- 
aman, De Vries, Dissen, Warner, Car- 
ricato, Grandy.
CALIFORNIA S.T.C.
Ends—Merti, Cederlof, Bailey.
Tackles—Polak, Mosnin, Barcelona.
Guards—Kuzemka, Tselepsis, Fleming, 
Coppolino.Centers—Chepes, Bowman, Magg.Backs—Cianciotto, Miner, Herron, Ran- 
shaw, Natali, Zielinski, Mans, Cherocci.
Score by Quarters
CIT 0 7 7 7—21
CSTS 0 14 6 7—27
Touchdowns: CIT—Craig (2) Kennedy.
CSTS—Natali (3) Cherocci.
center of the line for six points; 
Grandy converted. The score, 
14-0.
Fighting to overcome this def­
icit, the Plaid took the kickoff 
and twelve plays later, Craig 
caught a short pass over center 
for the initial Tartan score. Dis­
sen converted. The major factor in 
the advance was a 30 yard pass 
from Kennedy to Craig which 
carried to the five. The score came 
with only 40 seconds left in the 
half.
Inspired by Coach Eddie Bak­
er’s halftime remarks, and lead 
by Dissen, the Scots took the 
second half kick-off deep into
Vulcan territory before losing the 
ball on the 9 on downs.
After an exchange of punts, Cal 
held the ball on the 22 where Na­
tali broke open the game in two# 
plays, one a 73 yard smash 
through center. The conversion 
failed.
In the waning minutes of the 
third quarter the Tartans fought 
back by marching 57 yards in 13 
plays for the second T.D. with 
Kennedy skirting left end for the 
score. Dissen converted.
In an exchange of punts, in the 
fourth quarter, the Tech safety 
man fumbled on his 23 and Flem­
ing of the opposition recovered. 
Cherocci turned right end for 12 
and the Vulcans last score. 
Grandy again converted.
A blocked Cal punt by A1
Schell gave the Tartansf the ball 
on the opponents 19. A Carricato 
pass to Craig moved the pigskin 
to the six from where Craig took 
Schecter’s aerial in the end zone. 
Dissen converted his third 
straight. After the return kickoff, 
Cal managed to retain possession 
for the last three minutes.
STATISTICS
CIT CSTC
13 First Downs 9
8 First Downs Rushing if 8
5 First Downs Pasing 1
0 First Downs Penalty 0
192 Yards Gained Rushing 270
90 Yards Gained Passirtg 20
282 Total Yards Gained 290
21 Passes Attempted 6
9 Passes Completed 2
0 Passes Intercepted 2
3 Punts 8
1 Penalties 7
5 Yards Lost in Penalty 59
4 Fumbles 0
Senior Chem E 
Contest Winner
Accurate Point Choice 
Determines Close Race
The first contest award for the 
1952 football season went to 
Frank E. Carter, a senior mechan­
ical engineer, of the Kappa Sigma 
fraternity. Including a miscue on 
the Carnegie-California game, 
Carter had 11 right out of 15.
George Berringer, also a senior 
chemical engineer, had 11 correct 
but did not predict the point 
spread nearly as accurately as 
Carter. Of all the entries receiv­
ed only two chose California over 
Tech, and one indicated a tie.
A certificate for the 1953 This­
tle will be presented to the win­
ner of the contest by the Tartan 
Sports Editor as soon as arrange­
ments have been completed with 
the Thistle.
Time Trials Held for Harriers; 
Jeannette to be 1st Opponent
Carman Earns No. 1 Spot With Flashing Win; 
Robertson, Flynn Are Freshmen Standouts
Coach Guy Halferty’s initial cross country time trials were run 
last Friday, September 26, over the Schenley park course. The results
were not encouraging, but Mr. Halferty expects much improvement
before the harriers meet Jeannette in their first intercollegiate com­
petition this season. ?---------------------------------------------------------
Returning letterman Bob Car­
man paced the field in 19 min. 17 
sec. Male Gillis and A1 Hayes, 
who placed in every meet last 
year, have returned to the squad 
and will add some much needed 
experience to the roster.
Outstanding Frosh
John Muller and freshman Roger 
Coyle also turned in creditable
Little Man On Campusby Bibler
times, although the lack of suffi­
cient training and conditioning was 
apparent from the results of the 
trials.
Outstanding among the fresh­
man leggers are Jim Flynn from 
Wilkinsburg and Dave Robertson 
from Central Catholic in Cleve­
land. Although inexperienced and 
unsure, the frosh candidates look 
promising for future seasons and 
Coach Halferty anticipates point- 
winning performances from them 
before the season’s end.
Meet Jeannette
Having practiced for only eight 
days prior to the time trials on 
Friday, the results can only be con­
sidered as an indication. The first 
real picture of the team will come 
out of the meet with Jeannette on 
October 4.
Jeannette’s outstanding runner, 
Chuck Fee, participated in the 
AAU Olympic trials in California 
this past June. Although he failed 
to earn a position on the team, his 
ability is certified by his attend­
ance at the trials.
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
YOUR t ULL, DISCOUNTOAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES ST.
‘•Nov*, ... ____ -just lie back an’ relax—anyone could
iumble a ball on th’ goal line.’*
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $109
TYPEWRITERS $90 50
All Kinds as Low as
$29
American Typewriter Co.
11 WoodS». (0.1-1019
Convenient Parking
i','' |
Photo by SnydermanAnother Fumble??
Not this time! Swamped by California red-shirts and seemingly 
not in possession of the ball, Carnegie’s Bill Kennedy drives for­
ward through the Vulcan line for a first down. Smothering Kennedy 
and trying desperately to steal the ball is Elmo Natali, California 
fullback and little All-American candidate.
Tartan Netters Tie All-Stars, 
Moses Reveals Varsity Roster
Wiederhorn, Miller, Glaser Triumph As 
Alumni All-Stars Surprise Plaid, 3-3
Tennis climbed into the Tech sports spotlight this week as 
members of the net team competed against each other in the Varsity 
Round Robin Tournament, held under the direction of Coach Moses. 
On the basis of this early evidence of ability, Moses has announced
some tentative selections for the^ 
Tartan varsity roster. Included on 
the list are Wiederhorn, Miller, 
Glaser, Duffus, Saibel, Duncklee, 
Tsaing, Gillette and Wickham.
Match With All Stars
Playing the CIT Tennis Club 
All-Stars on September 28, the 
squad split a six game match in 
the first scheduled tennis event of 
the year. In the featured contests, 
Tech’s number 1 man .Wieder­
horn, defeated Lankford, a CIT 
alumnus, by a score of 6-4, 6-3, 
while the Tartans’ Miller bested
Renner, another former Tech man, 
by an identical count. In an ex­
citing game, Glaser, third man for 
the Plaid, overcame an early lead 
by Merchent to cop the contest 
5-7, 6-4, 6-4. Other net action 
saw Halloran of the All-Stars de­
feat Saibel 4-6, 6-1, 6-4, while 
Shoemaker, another Club man and 
former Tech student, topped Gil­
lette by a 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, margin, 
and Waughaman of the ’Stars 
beat Wickham 6-0, 6-0.
Patronize Tartan Advertisers
More BOUNCE to the Ounce
For Better Dry Cleaning . . .
1-HOUR 
SER VICE
'W
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes St.
ROUGH, DRY LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY
12 In. Metal Rulers Free To All 
C.I.T. Students
f

---------------------------------------------------

Pase 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 30, 1952
Intramural Roundup
IM Play Begins In 
Football & Tennis
Beta Sigs, PiKA, Newmens Win;
Tennis Tourney Underway Today _ J t u ooJ J Last Tuesday, September 23, the
Last week's intramural football activity was highlighted by vie- Managers’ club met and elected 
tories for Beta Sigma Rho, Newman club, and Pi Kappa Alpha.
The biggest casualty of the week was the loss of the Alpha Tau 
Omega “Av team from the Skibo league competition.
Passing- Whips SAE ?----------------------------------------------------------
Bushey Now 
Heads IM 
Managers Club
Meeting of Coaches 
Planned to Clarify 
Touch Football Rules
Beta Sig’s Jack Brourman was, 
in excellent passing form as he 
led his team over a weak Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon squad 24-3. The 
pass combination of Brourman to 
Summers netted several touch­
downs through the spotty SAE de-
their officers for the coming year. 
George Bushey, Sigma Nu, was 
chosen president; Bob Steiger, Pi 
Kappa Alpha, was elected secre- 
tary-treasurer; and Frank Carter, 
Kappa Sigma, was given the job 
of vice-president.
Bushey went over the football 
rules and clarified some of the 
technical points. He also urges 
that all of the football coaches be 
certain to attend the next meet­
ing of the club on Tuesday, Octo­
ber 7, at 11:30 a.m. to take note 
of any rule changes and to clear 
up any questions that they may 
want to raise.
ence and it is the duty of the man
on the lower part of the bracket
to contact the upper man for a
match to be played before October
6. The tournament is expected to
last for about one month. The
. , ... semi-finals and finals are beingieme and will spell troub'e (or fu-i scheduled fey (he ,M department
Jack^RvEiTand A1 Blank spark- i 50 tha‘ *reat?r spectator coverage , * ,T , , , - may be achieved,ed a scrappy Newman club team ;
who outfought and outscored Kap- Men who have played varsity 
pa Sigma in one of the roughest ; tennis will not be allowed in the 
games of the week. Blood and tournament, 
loose teeth were common occur- 
rences during this mad iree-for- j 
all which seldom resembled the | 
game of football. In the last min­
utes of the game the Newmans 
held the Kappa Sigs on the 5 yard 
line for three downs and the game,; 
managing to squeeze out a 6-2 j 
marg:n of victory.
ME's Offense Fold 
The ME's got ofT to a rolling 
start against the Pi Kappa Alpha ' 
squad, building up an eleven point 
lead in the first three quarters. In 
the last period, the PiKA line of Reuther, Gough, and Bankston Tarquans, intramural tennis,, and intercollegiate field hockey
completely shattered the ME of- are in full swing for women in WAA. It is still not too late for
fense and staite.i the ball i oiling stucjents desiring to come out for field hockey to organize a seven the other wray. With less than:
two minutes remaining. the: girl team and play intramural hockey. Entries, which are due on
PiKA's scored their final TD, October 6, should be turned in to the women’s physical education
whLh ^ave them a 2., 2c win in pfpce League play is scheduled to start October 13. their first game.
In other games, Tau Delta Phi ! Other sports on the fall agenda include intramural volleyball
outsrored the Obelisks in a free an(j basketball, which are scheduled to start on November 3 and 10
scoring game, 39-23. Phi Kappa 1 .. , . . , , , . , . , , , ,ran unhindered over a weak inde- resPectlve1^- Anyone interested in these sports is urged to watch 
pendent team the Roopsips Score' tlie bulletin boards for announcements concerning the organization 
Phi K-ppa 26: Roopsips 6. meeting for each.
Tennis Tournament
Intramural tennis got under way Sports Clubs 
on Monday, September 29, on the 
Carnegie Tech tennis courts lo­
cated along side of Margaret Mor­
rison.
Activity Schedule 
Released by WAA
Modern Dance Is Newest Feature; 
Three Clubs Are Already Underway
Tech Hunts 1st Win At 
Bethany This Weekend
This Saturday at 2:00 p.m the Carnegie Tech Tartans will take 
the field against the Bethany Bisons in an attempt to get on the 
victory road. Victims of a 27-21 upset at the hands of California 
State Teachers last Saturday, the downcast Bakermen will attempt 
to take it out on a sub-average ?---------------------------------------------------------
WAA CALENDAR OF FALL ACTIVITIES
10
Director Ray Haynes has set the 
time limit for the opening round 
as one week. The names of the 
entrants and their opponents are 
posted on the Intramurals bulletin 
board in the gym.
The 36 contestants are bracket­
ed according to relative experi-
Tarquans ..................................................September.23—March 31
Square Dance..........................................September 26—May 15
Hockey .......................................................September 29—November
Modern Dance ........................................October 1—Indefinite
Volleyball ................................................November 10—December 19
IM Sports Entry Date Games Begin
Hockey ....................................................October 6 October 13
Volleyball................................................November 3 November 10
Basketball ................................................November 24 December 1
Bethany squad which was soundly 
thrashed by the Tartans last year 
at Forbes Field, 47-20.
Whipped by Davis-Elkins 
A preview from the Bethany 
publicity department forecasts that 
the 1952 Bison gridders are im­
proved over last year’s eleven 
which won three and dropped five. 
Factual evidence seems to contra­
dict this statement, however, for 
in last Saturday’s encounter Beth­
any suffered a humiliating 40-20 
setback at the hands of Davis and 
Elkins.
Bethany’s 1952 football team 
will be small in size and number, 
with the accent on speed. Only 
17 lettermen will be returning to 
the field this year.
As in previous years, Coach 
Donald Fuoss will use the T-for- 
mation which is built around the 
fine passing arm of Bob Decker 
and the quick opening plays of a 
fast charging line.
Conference Standout 
Co-captain Decker, a junior 
from Bellaire, Ohio, set several 
West Virginia Intercollegiate Con­
ference ^records last year as he 
averaged 139 yards per game in 
eight contents with his sharp pass­
ing. Ten of his passes were good 
for touchdowns. With an accumu­
lation of 1,112 yards by passing, 
Bullet Bob led the conference in
total offensive yardage with room 
to spare.
Should Decker prove as devas­
tating through the air as Elmo (the 
rascal) Natali did last week on 
the ground, the Tartan pass de­
fenders will be kept on their toes 
all afternoon.
To confront this situation, Coach 
Eddie Baker will use a 5-3-2-1 de­
fensive setup with “stop-that- 
Decker-pass” positions in the 
backfield assigned to Byron Eisa- 
man, Dale Peoples, and Eddie 
Miller.
Blatt To See More Action
Fullback Jim Blatt, who didn’t 
see much action offensively last 
week because of a pulled muscle, 
will be ready to go against the 
Bisons.
Having won nine of ten games, 
Carnegie Tech holds a lop-sided 
edge over Bethany in the Tartan- 
Bison series which began back in 
1912. A resume of the series:
DateCITBethany
1912146
19143219
1916317
1919330
1920014 s
19212112
1929210
1949416
1950343
19514720
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY BLANK
for Games on October 4, 1952
Team
Carnegie Tech
Pittsburgh
Penn State
Army
Baylor
California
Clemson
Cornell
Duke
Georgia Tech 
Michigan 
Notre Dame 
UCLA 
Illinois
Louisiana State
Score Team
.......... Bethany
.......... Oklahoma
.......... William & Mary
.......... Southern California
.......... Washington State
.......... Minnesota
.......... Maryland
.......... Navy
.......... Tennessee
.......... Southern Methodist
.......... Stanford
.......... Texas
.......... Washington
.......... Wisconsin
.......... Rice
Score
NAME .......................................................DEPT..CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1953 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTAN'S weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in *and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box. addressed to the TARTAN. All-coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day s games.
Contest Rules
II be eligible to compete.
predict not only the winner, but also the final score
udged on the number of correct decisions; in case
>n the correctness of the sco'es.
t to the Tartan through intra-school mail by mid- 
ek to be eligible for consideration, 
it only one entry, H more than one entry is sub- 
will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be Judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be
announced in the issue following the contest. Derision of the judges is final.
8. Winner of each week’* contest will receive a 1953 Thistle subscription, re­
deemable *t the time oi publication.
2.
of tl
of til
Only CIT 
Each cont< 
game. En1 
entries wi
3. All entries 
night Friday of tl
4. Each student may ?ubi 
mitted by a student, he or sh
s will be j 
>e judged t 
iUst be sen 
contest we
IM Board 
Elections Held
Fegley Elected to New 
Public Relations Post
At the first regular meeting of 
the Intramural Athletic Board the 
following men were elected to of­
fice for the 1952-1953 season.
Gene O’Reilly, Delta Upsilon— 
president.
Dick Goss, McGill hall—vice- 
president.
Bob Steiger, Pi Kappa Alpha— 
secretary-treasurer.
Frank Fegley, Beta Theta Pi— 
public relations.
Paul Smith and Nick Aversa 
were selected to represent the 
dormitories on the bpard along I 
with Dick Goss. Jack Alexander, ' 
Citcom, and Bob Murphy, New­
man club, were named as repre­
sentatives of the independent 
teams. One more independent re- 
rr ains to be selected at the next 
regular meeting in order to com­
plete the required board member- ! 
ship of thirteen.
George Bushey, Sigma Nu, auto­
matically became a member of the 
board by way of his election to the 
presidency of the Intramural : 
Managers’ club.
Meetings will be held by the 
board every Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. 
in the Black Cat lounge in the 
gymnasium. i
Time you picked on a 
sports shirt your own size!
0
Arrow Gabanaro.. J6.50
• in your exact collar size
• your exact sleeve length
• washable rayon gabardine
ARROW
»»-------------------------------------------
____SHIRTS • TIES • UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS—J

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 30, 1952—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page Î
^CARNEGIE^J .fi
WW ha f* ha # J'/ 
\ W,V AU MM V
tl." ' ""''V
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor ................................................................................................. Victor Sabol
Reporter ................................................................................ George Schussler
Typist .................................................................................... Anna Mae Legosh
Repetition Of 
Monte Carlo
Last year’s Monte Carlo was 
such a huge success and demands 
for another evening of the same 
are so great that this year’s even­
ing school social chairman, Ken 
Pore, already has his plans under 
way for an even bigger event. 
The carnival is slated for Satur­
day evening, October 18, at This­
tle hall.
As last year, Monte Carlo car­
nival brings to the Carnegie Tech 
campus authentic roulette wheels, 
dice games, and casino. Latch on­
to your wife, husband, boy friend 
or girl friend, and other friends. 
Bring them all along for ar even­
ing of real fun. Everyone at one 
time or another has had the urge 
to gamble away some of his or her 
money, so come on over and try 
your luck with Lady Luck. Plenty 
of stage money will be given to 
all attending. Ask anyone who 
came last year if they had a good 
time, then come and have one 
yourself.
Parking Space 
For Faculty Only
A reserved parking area for 
evening school faculty members 
has been established. The restrict­
ed section is bounded by a chain 
in front of Fine Arts college and 
the gate at Margaret Morrison 
college. The area will be open to 
pass holders, who must pay one 
dollar fee for the privilege.
This measure was found necessary 
in order that evening students 
would be assured having instruc­
tors available on time to expound 
on knowledge for which they are 
so eagerly waiting.
This project is on an experi­
mental basis at present, until the 
space requirements of the even­
ing school faculty are definately 
determined.
Night Students 
Newman Club 
Meets Oct. 5
On Sunday afternoon, October 
5, at 2 p.m. the Evening School 
Newman club will hold its first 
meeting of the current school 
year. The place of the meeting is 
the Knights of Columbus hall, 201 
N. Craig St. All Catholic evening 
school students are invited to at­
tend. The purpose of the club is 
to deepen the spiritual and enrich 
the temporal lives of its members 
through a balanced program of re­
ligious, intellectual, and social ac­
tivities. Present at this meeting 
will be the chaplain of Carnegie 
Tech Newman clubs, Father J. 
Regis Berkmyre, and Pittsburgh’s 
Federation chaplain Father 
Grundler.
If it is impossible for you to at­
tend this meeting and you do have 
a desire to be a member do not 
hesitate to write to Victor F. Sa­
bol, 417 George st., Braddock, Pa., 
or phone EL 1-2284.
The Newman club is one of the 
most active of the regular day 
school organizations. Let’s make 
our night school group even bet­
ter.
Help Wanted
MALE AND FEMALE
Circulation Personnel—Students 
wanted willing to distribute the 
Plaid in the various buildings on 
the campus. Pay one-fourth point 
for pick-up or delivery per even­
ing. Inquire Plaid circulation 
manager, C.I.T., Box 256. (Maxi­
mum points toward Insignia—8).
Reporters—Any evening student 
wanting to earn points toward an 
Insignia Award. Articles up to 150 
words—one-half point, 150 to 500 
words.—1 point. Inquire Plaid Ed­
itor, C.I.T., Box 256.
Typists—Students with any typ­
ing ability whatsoever needed for 
Plaid work. For articles of 200 to 
250 words one point can be secur­
ed—articles of 250 words and up, 
a weekly salary of 2 points will be 
paid.
Note: Plaid Hours are Fri­
day evening from 8 to ? Of- 
. flees located on the third floor 
of the Carnegie Union, Forbes 
street.
General—Any student willing 
to help Evening Student Council in 
any way during the coming year is 
asked to send his or her name to 
Evening Student Council, Box 256, 
C.I.T., stating the nature and ex­
tent of their services. All letters 
should be.put in the intra-school 
mail slot, located in the post of­
fice opposite the book store.
Letter
Editor, the Plaid:
On Friday evening, September 
26, I parked my car next to the 
blinker in front of A H to attend 
classes from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Upon arriving at my car at 8:30 
p.m. I found that someone had 
double parked and I could not get 
my car out. It just so happened 
I that I had no immediate engage- 
i ment for the evening beyond 
: wanting to get home. Suppose I 
| had received an emergency call 
to come home? I would not have 
i been able to go. If all drivers 
| would only put themselves in the 
j other fellows place, they would 
i think twice before doing such an 
: inconsiderate thing.
Signed,
A Disgruntled Driver 
Editors Note: We realize that 
the parking facilities at Tech 
have been taxed, partially be- 
! cause of the overflow from ac- 
i tivities at Forbes Field, however 
! this is still no reason for double 
1 parking. City law makes double 
parking liable to fine, so watch 
your step, the next student may 
do more than write the Editor. He 
may let the city police do the 
writing on a nice little parking 
| tag.
t Remember, there is the large 
parking lot, entered to from- 
Forbes Street, when additional 
parking space is needed to com­
pensate for conflicts with civic 
events in Oakland.
STUDENTS!
Sigma Delta Phi
Busy This Summer •/ »
Through the efforts of social 
chairman Tony Miscimarra, the 
members of Sigma Delta Phi fra­
ternity were active all summer.
An enjoyable evening at the 
Civic Light Opera was one of the 
successful events of the season. 
A'’ter the operetta the group met 
at Jordans for a lunch and group 
singing.
The corn and weiner roast held 
a few weeks ago was well attend­
ed. Many of the group stayed late 
and enjoyed singing by the fire­
side. Ray Schwalm, recently dis­
charged from the army, entertain­
ed the party with a discussion of 
conditions in Germany where he 
had been stationed. Ray was very 
active in extracurricular work | 
during his previous enrollment at j 
Tech having been elected presi­
dent of Council the year he was 
drafted.
News
And
Views
We were surprised to note the 
interest shown in a student chap­
ter of the ASME. Last year Frank 
Mihelich received such a small 
response that he gave up the pro­
gram; however this year Frank 
was able to get 25 students to 
subscribe within a very short 
time.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will 
open its Fall season at its new 
craft theater on October 4. Veter­
an actress Alma Lind will be co- 
starred with Russell Whitney in 
Eugene O’Neill’s clasic “Ah Wil­
derness” in the opener. The play 
is scheduled to run for four weeks.
Evening school registrar, Dal 
McKelway, was surprised at the 
results shown by the IBM cards. 
Although fewer students register­
ed, no classes had to be dropped 
because of insufficient enrollment 
in any one class. In fact, some of 
the classes were larger than has 
been the experience in the past. 
This seems to indicate that each 
student is carrying a heavier 
schedule.
189
AWARDS
LAST
YEAR!
-Write a Lucky Strike jingleh
Ho box tops! ,V J,ORL ’SP,UDC It’s easy!
Just write a 4-line jingle based on the fact that sa*'*‘nevery
LUCKIES ARE MADE BETTER
TO TASTE BETTER!*
So tvSU ¡U*1
Here’s your chance to make yourself $25. 
Just write a 4-line Lucky Strike jingle, 
based on the fact that Luckies are made 
better to taste better*
Then, if we select your jingle, we’ll pay 
you for the right to use it, together with 
your name, in Lucky Strike advertising . . . 
probably in this paper.
Read the sample jingles on this page. 
Then get the gang together, break out the 
rhyming dictionary, and start writing. It’s 
fun! And we’re buying jingles by the bushel!
Hint—if you can sing your jingle, it’s a 
good one!
Hint—the more jingles you write, the 
more money you have a chance of making.
Hint—be sure to read all the instructions!
HIRE ARE THE INSTRUCTIONS
f. Write your Lucky Strike jingle on a plain 
piece of paper or post card and send it to 
Happy-Go-Lucky, P. O. Box 67, New York 
46, N. Y. Be sure that your name, address, 
college and class are included—and that they 
are legible.
2. Base your jingle on any qualities of Luckies. 
“Luckies are made better to taste better," 
is only one. (See "Tips to money-makers.")
3. Every student of any college, university or 
post-graduate school may submit jingles.
4. You may submit as many jingles as you 
like. Remember, you are eligible to win more 
than one $25 award.
’TIPS TO MONEY-MAKERS
To write a winning Lucky Strike jingle, you’re 
not limited to “Luckies are made better to 
taste betterUse any other sales points on 
Lucky Strike such as the following: 
L.S./M.F.T.
Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco
Luckies’ cigarette-tearing demonstration
Luckies taste cleaner, fresher, smoother
Be Happy—Go Lucky
So round, so firm, so fully packed
So free and easy on the draw
Buy Luckies by the carton
Luckies give you deep-down smoking enjoyment
COPR., THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF 1 
BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER 
PRICE THAN ANY OTHER 
S. KING-SIZE CIGARETTE^
UCGÊTT t B5 TOBACCO CO.LIGGETT & WYfftS TOBACCO CO.
Page »—CAKNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 30, 1952
Irate Frosh Storm 
Temple Of Science
By John J. John. Jr., as told to R. Durstine
It is with great reluctance that I take up my typewriter to dis­
cuss the topic at hand this week. I hate unpleasant subjects. That 
topic is freshmen (a form of life found principally on the Ameri­
can college campus). I am loath to say anything adverse about the
breed; in fact I have a brother, ?---------------------------------------------------------
whom I dearly love, who is a j of the human anatomy) has more 
freshman: but what must be must j than one use. Some of us have 
ke i log tables engraved on the toes
_ ¦ of our shoes. Others do it (lowerSo it is with the hop«* that 11 their headg) to keep their slide
offend no one that I approach j ruie case locks from being tam-
this touchy subject of those who ¦ pered with by brigands.
have been with us for but a few YVierd Noises
weeks, those of us who go to bed j And have you ever noticed
in the evening rather than in the j whch end of us our Ie-S are fas', . ,, ! tened to? (that is, to which endmoimi,te i.i nui ^ a . , je^g afe fastened?) Certainly
Unaware oi frosh j they are not visible to someone
I had been released early from ; who is holding his head high, 
my principles of tautology class j But the above is a trifle ir- 
in the English department one day relevant, and may be omitted by 
last week, and was setting off for ¦ the reader without sacrificing the 
a warm, brown, unnamed drink j continuity of the story. I was 
in Skibo when I first became I groping my way through the 
aware of the strangers on our j Pittsburgh gloom which lay heavy 
campus. Being an E&S student, Ij on the moors that day when I 
make a habit of walking with my heard a noise as of vast armies 
head down so as not be distracted marching near the Fine Arts 
by tire world about me as I go | building. At first I thought that 
from class to class. Thus I was it was but some music student 
not aware of the swarms of un- abusing the muse; but it had a 
initiated amongst us. j far different, more ominous sound.
Tech Wives
There will be a meeting to­
night of the Tech Wives elub 
at 8:00 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Union. The purpose of this 
meeting is to organize for the 
coming year. Any wife of a 
Tech student, either day or 
night, is invited to attend.
In fact that lowered beadA Neutrino?
^anearùn* in this sense a portion I forsook my quest of that un- 1
named Skibo beverage ana hast­
ened toward the disturbance, 
thinking that perhaps a neutrino 
or some other dangerous particle 
had escaped the watchful gaze of 
the physics department to wreak 
havoc on the populace.
But on coming closer to that 
temple of the natural, and some­
times unnatural, sciences, Engi­
neering Hall, I saw a sight far 
different from a neutrino. At first 
glance it looked like a vast mob 
of ragged peasant women, armed 
with pitchforks and wooden 
spears, approaching my dearly 
beloved EH (where I was to have 
a lab in myopic analysis the next 
hour) with evil intent in their 
eyes. Swarming the Bastille, no 
less.
Only Freshmen
My blood boiled within me at 
the sight. I unsheathed my trusty 
sliderule, set the index at e, and 
prepared to defend to the death 
my fundamental rights to mass, 
energy, and velocity.
But soon, as the mob appeared 
from the fog, the approaching 
hoard turiled out to be but several
Council¦
[Continued from page 2] 
pared students who did not wear 
their dinks to the freshman con­
vocation Tuesday. The penalty 
these unwary freshman had to pay 
was sweeping the senior walk. 
Drew also congratulated the Cwens 
and Scimitars for their support on 
enforcing the freshman regula­
tions.
score of enraged women (fresh­
man women I was to learn later 
from a friend who is acquainted 
with these matters) being herded 
by some hundreds of other wom­
en, from the upper classes.
Not Unlike People
I had never before looked up 
my handbooks long enough to re­
alize that there are women in the 
world other than my dear old 
mother and my sister Johanna. 
Some of them are in fact quite 
nice looking, not at all unlike peo­
ple in many respects. I would 
like to call my fellow engineers’ 
attention to this. But that is hard­
ly to the point.
When I learned that his un­
ruly mob meant no harm, but was 
merely a group of students intent 
on cleaning off one of the cement 
walks which run across the bar­
ren tundras (called spangled 
wilderness by the poets) on which 
this institution is situated, I felt
Interested in participating 
in the production of this year’s 
Scot? Watch for announce­
ment of time and place to sign 
up. Opportunities are availa­
ble in writing, art, fashion, 
layout, circulation, advertis­
ing, and publicity.
at ease again, temporarily at
least.
Deep Ditches
To be brief, these persons—the 
freshmen—had been so unwise as 
to neglect to wear their headgear 
that day. In punishment for this 
grevious sin, they were forced to 
clean the aforementioned walk. 
This was a great inconvenience to £ 
a number of students and faculty 
of the engineering school, causing 
them to walk on other walks or 
on the grass, which is currently 
filled with deep ditches, presuma­
bly dug by the ROTC for use in 
one of their maneuvers.
Might Trip
Therefore I would like to ad­
monish you freshmen, both fe­
male and otherwise, of the inad­
visability of doffing your dinks un- £ 
til the prescribed day. Such action 
proves most inconvenient, as I 
have pointed out, to those of us 
who are deep in our labors with 
hyperbolic arc cosecants and Bes­
sel functions. We might trip over 
a broom and become seriously in­
jured, not being aware of the 
dangers that lie ahead.
CHESTERFIELDFIRST PREMIUM 
QUALITY CIGARETTE
TO OFFER BOTH REGULAR & KING-SIZE
ASK YOUR DEALER 
FOR CHESTERFIELD 
-EITHER WAY 
YOU LIKE 'EM
LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE in AMERICA'S COLLEGES
BOTH regular and king-size 
Chesterfields are premium quality 
cigarettes and come in the smart 
white pack.
BOTH contain only those proven in­
gredients that make Chesterfields 
the .best possible smoke: the 
world’s best tobaccos, pure, more 
costly moistening agents (to keep 
them tasty and fresh), the best 
cigarette paper that money can 
buy — nothing else.
BOTH are much milder with an ex­
traordinarily good taste and, from 
the report of a well-known research 
organization — no unpleasant 
after-taste.
BOTH are exactly the same in all re­
spects. There is absolutely no difference 
except that king-size Chesterfield is 
larger — contains considerably more of 
the same tobaccos — enough more to 
give you a 21% longer smoke, yet costs 
very little more.
old CHESTERFIELD./*«* MM»
mm Copyright (952. tttMktiT & M<m fovOnne
