The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 29 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1944
Six For One Benefit Will Open September 23
Drama Department 
Presents First Play, 
Akins’ The Old Maid
On October 14th, the Drama De­
partment of C. I. T. will present 
the first of a series of six plays, The 
Old Maid, by Zoe Akins, taken from 
the novel by Edith Wharton. The 
production will be directed by Mr. 
William Beyer, a graduate of the 
Tech Drama Department, who be­
came a member of the C. I. T. fac­
ulty this fall.
Another play, The Years of the 
Locusts, written by Constance Marie 
O’Hara, which was published just 
recently, will be given some time in 
November. The play will be direct­
ed by Miss Mary Morris. The third 
of the series, as yet unannounced, 
will be given before Christmas. 
Among the remaining plays to be 
presented in the coming season will 
be one by Shakespeare and one by 
Moliere.
The Old Maid will run until Oc­
tober 21. Leading roles are Adeline 
Lovell, played by Priscilla Dodge 
and Mary Laura Wood; Charlotte 
Lovell, played by Doris Fast and 
Gerry Jedd; and Mrs. Mingot, play­
ed by Rita Sheinman and Pat Walk­
er. Other members of the cast in­
clude Jack Hochhauser, Mark Pat­
terson, Clark Marlor, Phyllis Leon, 
Peggy Glenn, Parker Myers, Wil­
liam Ross, Carolyn Cook, Adele Lip- 
kin, Rhoda Reig, Anne Stansbury, 
La Vetta Hammond, Sue Crobaugh, 
Helen Goodman, and Eleanor Kay 
Hutchison.
Lt. Doherty Returns 
From Central Pacific
President Doherty’s son, Lieuten­
ant James A. Doherty has just come 
home with numerous medals which 
he has received fighting in the Cen­
tral Pacific. Among several medals 
awarded to him, Lt. Doherty has 
earned the Distinguished Flying 
Cross and two Oak Leaf Clusters for 
his outstanding service in the 
Army’s Seventh Air Force in the 
Central Pacific Area.
Lt. Doherty has been in the Army 
Air Force for the past two and a 
half years. Before his entry into 
the army, he was a student at the 
University of Illinois for two years 
following ' his graduation from 
Shadyside Academy.
Orchestars Are Needed 
For Our Star Orchestra ^
The Carnegie Tech orchestra had 
its first rehearsal of the fall semes­
ter Monday evening, September 11 
in the Exhibition Room of Fine Arts 
College. Only twenty-eight play­
ers, scheduled to take orchestra for 
credit, and a few students from out­
side the music department attended. 
This group contrasts strongly with 
the Tech symphony orchestra of 
pre-war days. For eight years, the 
orchestra which had become in­
creasingly large and competent 
since its organization in 1913, con- 
Continued on page 4
The greatest financial drive ever 
seen in the history of Carnegie will 
swing into full gear at 1:00 p. m. 
on this coming Saturday when the 
Six for One Endowment Benefit 
opens its doors to the public. With 
gay booths, gayer games, and bridge 
fiends in droves the Benefit’s spon­
sors are confident that the enter­
tainment will bring credit to the col­
lege and coin to the coffers of the 
Fund.
Bridge!
The Benefit is basically planned 
to furnish an afternoon and evening 
of pleasant bridge to its devotees in 
the C. I. T. gymnasium, but for 
those who don’t indulge there will 
be various games of another type 
in Thistle Hall and an entertain­
ment featuring everything from 
bathing beauties to service women. 
One of the most interesting features 
of the day will be the colorful 
booths that will change the drab 
gymansium into a multicolored 
bazaar.
Booth!
Enlivening one corner of the 
formerly barren gym will be the 
Needlework booth sponsored by 
Mrs. Charlotte Young. All the gay- 
ly colored articles in her booth 
from bibs for the babies to knitting 
bags for the grandmothers have 
been hand sewn with loving care by 
Mrs. Young and her committee, in­
cluding Mrs. Marie Elliott, Mrs. 
Francis Stanton, Mrs. C. I. Herron, 
Mrs. Elsie Williams, Mrs. Ruth Hes-
Changes In Faculty 
Personnel Announced
Along with the many changes in 
curricula, the faculty list has also 
assumed new additions and sub- 
trations. A tabulation of the mod­
ifications in the personnel follows: 
New Appointments:
Elliott Dunlap Smith, Visiting 
Professor, Maurice Falk Chair of 
Social Relations; Frederic Theodore 
Mavis, Professor and Head, Depart­
ment of Civil Engineering; Calla 
Van Syckle, Professor and Head, 
Department of Home Economics; 
Mrs. Bonnie Barrick, Assistant Pro­
fessor, Home Management, and Res­
ident Director, Home Management 
House; William Henry Beyer, As­
sistant Professor, Department of 
Drama; Richard I. Felver, Assistant 
Professor, Department of Painting 
and Design, Virginia Ronan Fishel, 
Continued on page 3
NoticeThe Deans’ reception, which was scheduled for September 15, was postponed to Friday evening, Sep­tember 22. It will be held from 8 to 12 o’clock in Exhibition Hall, College of Fine Arts. All fresh­men are invited, including students who enrolled for the first time in June 1944.
and Mrs. Clara Marshall, during the 
summer months. Aside from gay 
pitcher knitting and bibs complete 
with crumb catchers, knitting bags, 
the booth will feature aprons of all 
sizes and varieties, luncheon sets, 
shopping bags, stuffed animals, pot- 
holders, and millions of other items 
made just the way the housewives 
want them by the housewives them­
selves. ,
Bargains!
Scattered in other corners of the 
room will be a Food booth, decorat­
ed in circus red and gold, sponsored 
by Mrs. Louis Lockhart, a Harvest 
home booth presided over by Mrs.
C. C. Brinton, a section devoted to 
lapel ornaments many of which 
were made by its chairman Mrs. O.
O. Cole, and a Victory Booth spon­
sored by the Chi Omega sorority 
which offers gay and amusing 
Christmas packages for you to send 
to your sweetheart overseas. The 
Weavers Group of the Woman’s 
Club will offer a display of hand- 
woven linens, some of which will be 
for sak.. It is rumored that a mys­
terious fortune teller will gaze into 
her crystal ball for a pretty penny. 
For those interested in art, Miss 
Vera Doherty will sketch the por­
traits of those assembled.
Beauties!
At the close of both the afternoon 
and evening sessions, which run 
from 1:00 to 5:00 and 8:00 to 12:00, 
a gala entertainment will be given, 
featuring some well known guys 
and gals about town and campus as 
Continued on page 4
Prof. Felver Heads 
Ind. Des. Department
Assistant Professor Richard I. 
Felver, former student at Carnegie 
Tech and a prominent design engi­
neer, has temporarily replaced As­
sociate Professor Muller-Munk in 
the Industrial Design Department 
of the Fine Arts College. Professor 
Felver attended Carnegie Tech from 
1937-1939 while employed in Pitts­
burgh as a design displayer.
From the time of his graduation 
from the University of Akron in 
1935 until the present time, he has 
held design positions in the West- 
inghouse Electric and Manufactur­
ing Company and the Firestone 
Rubber and Tire Company. While 
employed by Westinghouse, he gave 
a course of instruction in statistical 
analysis and market research and 
gave talks on design in relation to 
engineering.
Notice
Attention interschool subscribers of the CARNEGIE TECHNICAL! If you have not been receiving the latest issues come to the publica­tions office (I.H. 232) this Wed­nesday between 10:00 and 11:00 or 12:30 to 2:00 o’clock.
C.I.T Executive Board 
Passes V-Day Rules 
Campus Holiday Follows 
Victory Announcement
It was VOTED to adopt the fol­
lowing rules in connection with a 
possible official announcement of 
victory in Europe:
a. If announcement is made during 
a school day prior to 3:00 p. m., 
classes will be promptly dismiss­
ed and campus buildings will be 
closed for the remainder of the 
day;
b. If announcement is made sub­
sequent to 3:00 p. m. on a school 
day, classes will be promptly 
dismissed and buildings will be 
closed, and the following day 
will be a holiday and buildings 
will remain closed;
c. If announcement is made at 
night or on Sunday, the follow­
ing day will be a holiday and 
buildings will be closed;
d. If announcement is made on 
Saturday, there will be classes as 
usual on the following Monday.
Action taken by the Executive 
Board on September 8, 1944.
Rahall Made Major 
In ROTC Shake-up
In order to increase interest and 
to facilitate drill and training, the 
Tech R. O. T. C. unit has been in­
formally reorganized into a bat­
talion of two companies. New cadet 
officers for the unit were disclosed 
last Thursday by Major Raymond 
Boberg, Professor of Military Sci­
ence and Tactics, to be as follows: 
Cadet Major George Rahall, bat­
talion commander, Cadet Captain 
Con Corey, battalion adjutant, Cadet 
Captain Richard Huntoon, comman­
der, Co. A, Cadet Captain Clark 
Sloan, commander, Co. B, Cadet 
First Lieutenant Millard Brown, 
and Cadet Second Lieutenant Bill 
Kerr, Co. A, Cadet First Lieutenant 
Jack Docherty and Cadet Second 
Lieutenant Boris Abrams, Co. B. 
Cadet non-commissioned officers will 
be disclosed next Thursday, Major 
Boberg revealed.
Inter-company drill competition 
will be held in the near future, and 
awards will be made to each mem­
ber of the winning Company at the 
close of the contest. R. O. T. C. 
training is at the present time stress­
ing preparation of tne cadets for 
service in the armed forces, and 
many phases of officer training have 
been discontinued. The unit drills 
once a week as a whole, at which 
time the new organization is in ef­
fect.
NoticeThe various fraternities on the campus are asked to submit type­written lists of their officers, mem­bers, and pledges to the News Bu­reau, Room 246-C, by Monday, September 25. This information is required for the Student Directory.A copy of this list must also be filed in Director Daniels’ Office, Room 162, Administration Hall.
penheide, Mrs. Ida McKim, Mrs. 
William R. Work, Mrs. Edna Keck,

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1944
Anmcltaisi
American Troops on German Soil
For the first time in our history, American troops are invading Ger­
many. Thousands of them are invading that country, and many will 
never return.
Death of a loved one is always cruel, but how much worse must it be 
to know the husband, son, brother, or sweetheart to lie in the soil of our 
enemies, in a country which spiritually as well as geographically is so far 
away from us. In the last war a poet, a soldier himself, wrote words of 
comfort so beautiful, that instead of our inadequate comments, we would 
like to reproduce his poem:
A SOLDIER 
By Rupert Brooke 
If I should die, think only this of me:
That there’s some corner of a foreign field 
That is forever England. There shall be 
In that rich earth a richer dust concealed;
A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware,
Gave, once, her flowers to love, her ways to roam;
A body of England’s, breathing English air,
Washed by the rivers, blest by suns of home.
And think, this heart, all evil shed away,
A pulse in the eternal mind, no less
Gives somewhere back the thoughts by England given;
Her sights and sounds; dreams happy as her day;
And laughter, learnt of friends, and gentleness,
In hearts at peace, under an English heaven.
Destroy Your Bigotries
Today is the second day of the year 5705 of the Jewish calendar, and 
many Jews have spent this day and the day before in meditation at home 
or in the synagogue. Many—not all, for a great many have given their 
lives on the battlefields of this war, and millions upon millions, together 
with an equally staggering number of Dutchmen, Poles, Czech, Nor­
wegians, have been butchered in the gas chambers and crematories of the 
Nazi swines.
It is too late for pity, and for remonstrances. This is the time for ac­
tion, action by the pen and by the sword, action which will prevent once 
and for all the recurrence of this war’s massacres. You must never forget 
what man can do if his evil instincts are unchained; the story of Lublin 
and Lidice must be engraved onto your mind with flaming letters.
Scorn those who want an easy peace for Germany. Tell them, and 
yourself that twelve years of Nazi domination have untaught all the con­
ventions and ethics that civilization has produced, and that until these 
codes of human behavior have been put into use again, Germany must 
be treated with an iron first. Remember not just next year, but next cen­
tury, that Germany must be considered guilty until it has proven itself 
innocent.
And if you love peace, do not stop at this. Combat with every means 
at your disposal, with every bit of energy within you, those forces in this 
very country who want to make America a second Germany. Speak, 
write, fight against men like Coughlin, Smith, McWilliams and their fol­
lowers, against the Ku Klux Klan and similar organizations, and against 
Southern “gentlemen” who prefer a white dog to a colored man. The Nazi 
concentration camps in Poland are but the links in the chain of racism; its 
first links are created whenever a man looks down upon another because 
of the latters race or creed.
And finally, and above all, look within yourself. Smother and destroy 
your own prejudices and bigotries; force yourself to realize that no man’s 
worth is in any way depedendent upon his race or his religion. Extermin­
ate your animal instincts, which, but for your background and education, 
would make you a murdering beast. Compare the pre-1933 German with 
the Hun of today, or the easy-going population of some Southern town at 
one instant with the frenzied lynch-mob one hour later; compare these, and 
you will note that within each of us there is the blood, the urge to hurt 
and kill, of the animal. Get this urge under rigid and unbreakable con- 
trol; then, and only then, can you call yourself a human being.__________
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ¦Haff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute •( Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Pa.
PHONE MATFLOWEK MM v PHONE SCHENLEY 4551
w***«™ «*¦ national AovcwTiaiNo my After Office Hours Call
^ ¦P-H-Ota*..............................EM. »«4
420 Madison avk. new York. n. y. Business Manager...........................EM. 9424
TheCarn g inetnh • Los a4e2e g 0a4 •nanCeLCn
Enterod as second-eMso matter la the Pittsburg* Post Office nnder the Act of March S, 187».Poblishei weekly daring school year, exeept holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price 91.10 per year.
Editors-in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Business Manager ............................................................................................... jvan Faigen
Managing Editor ............................................................................................... Clara Herron
News Editor ......................................................................................................... Dottie King
Copy Editor.........................................'............................................................. Augie Binder
Headline Editor........................................................................................Mary Jane Horridge
Sports Editor.................................................................................................... Howard Roby
Photographers ..........................................................Ken Lipman, Dan Franks, Bill Jones
One of the Profs
When next you are slaving over 
your physics instead of taking that 
cute Dramat over to the Greeks for 
a snack, bear in mind that your 
prof too has a lighter side. In fact, 
if you are one of Professor William­
son’s students, your prof has had an 
extremely interesting life. Whom 
else do you know who can ride a 
horse and play in a band at the 
same time? But it all started like 
this:
At the beginning of the last war, 
Mr. Williamson, who had already 
had musical experience at several 
colleges, enlisted as a band leader 
in the U. S. Army. As customary, 
he was given regular infantry 
training. Suddenly he was chang­
ed to the cavalry, and there had the 
unique experience of playing on 
horseback. Believe it or not, he says 
it’s easier than playing on foot. The 
band, which consisted largely of 
West Philadelphia high school boys 
who had lied about their ages to get 
into the Army, was stationed at Fort 
Myer, Va., and played not only dur­
ing parades and reviews but also at 
dances, and nightly and Sunday 
concerts. All the programs drew 
large crowds, the President him­
self attending some of them.
One day word came from France 
that horses were no longer being 
used, so everybody was moved to 
the artillery and trained for the 
third time. By now the armistice 
had been signed and the war was 
over. They were demobilized at 
Fort Jackson, S. C. and gradually 
drifted back into civilian life. 
About half of the band members
. . . Charles Williamson
went into professional music, and 
in a sense Professor Williamson did 
so too, for he was commissioned 
and given a job as instructor in 
brass at an Army Music School. 
Shortly, thereafter, the school was 
disbanded. At last out of the Army, 
he came to Pittsburgh to visit a 
relative, found a position at Car­
negie Tech, and has been here ever 
since.
Physics seems an illogical thing 
for a musician to be teaching, but 
it is understood when one looks at 
his background. He was born in 
London, England, coming to Amer­
ica in 1907, to the town of Lewes, 
Del., one of the few settlements by 
Swedes in the East. There he went 
to high school and one year of col­
lege. Mr. Williamson got his A. B. 
degree from Lafayette College in 
Easton, Pa., majoring in Classics 
and Modern Languages. Then he 
decided to take up physics, since he 
liked it and saw how important it 
would be in the Army. It looked 
like a good career, and he’s “never 
been sorry since!” He studied phys­
ics at McGill University in Mon­
treal.
After coming to Pittsburgh, he 
realized what he wanted to do, so 
he went to night school and piled up 
credits, while teaching day school. 
There was summer school at Pitt 
until he got his Master’S degree. He 
now has all the credits for a Ph. D., 
but he can’t write his thesis because 
of a war project he is now in charge 
of at Tech. He can’t tell us a thing 
about it—what, who’s doing it, or 
anything—strictly a military secret!
... A.C.A.C. Minutes.
Forty-ninth Meeting 
September 13, 1944.
The meeting was called to order at 5:15 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Daniels, Wangeman,and Bokman; Misses Barclay, Bauer, 
Brooks, and Garland.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Bokman reported that there would 
be a meeting of the Publications Com­
mittee on Friday, September 15, 5:00 p.m. 
in 1-232.
Athletics
Mr. Bokman read the minutes of tne 
Intramural Board meetings of July 25 
and August 17 and moved that they be 
accepted.
Motion carried.
New Business
Mr. Daniels proposed that A.C.A.C. 
should elect a student co-chairman who 
would serve in the event of the Admin­
istration co-ordinator is unable to attend. 
A.C.A.C. approved this proposal and an 
election will be held after all representa­
tives to A.C.A.C. have been selected.
It was decided that the one remaining 
military representative continue to serve 
on A.C.A.C. until he has finished his 
course. At that time, he will be replaced 
by a representative of A.S.T.R.P. It was 
decided that according to the proportional 
representation stated in the constitution 
of A.C.A.C., the Army should have only one representative.
Plans were made to hold the following 
all-school elections in the near future: 
One representative to A.C.A.C. from the 
Engineering School and two representa­
tives to A.C.A.C. from the Arts School. 
Miss Bauer said that there would be cer­
tain offices in M.M.C.C. to be filled, but 
she would announce them later. It was 
asked that the petitions for this section
be in Mr. Daniels’ office, A. H.-162, at 
4:00 p.m., Friday, September 29.
Mr. Daniels moved that members of 
the Handbook staff listed below be 
awarded activity keys_ and that the indi­
vidual members of the staff be sent let­
ters of communication.
Jeweled Key 
Janet Armstrong 
Eleanor Wilson 
John Woodside 
Gold Keys 
Billie Mcllrath 
Helen Robinson 
Silver Keys 
Mary Lou Snedden 
John Riggle
Motion carried.
It was moved that keys be awarded to 
the following members of the Radio Club, 
provided that the Radio Club will bear 
the expense.
Jeweled Keys
Don Worth
Don Gross '
Daniel Schacher 
James Polyzou 
Gold Key 
Kenneth Lipman
It was moved and seconded that Miss 
Bauer represent A.C.A.C. on the Assem­
bly Committee.
Motion carried.
Mr. Daniels suggests that A.C.A.C. draw 
up new procedures whereby student or­
ganizations may make use of the perma­
nent decorations. It was decided that 
this matter should be discussed at the 
next meeting of A.C.A.C. when a definite 
procedure could be voted upon.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Berenice Barclay,
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
A.S.T.R.P. Here . . dirt colyum . .
Prepares For Test
Members of the Local 3302nd 
Service Unit can be seen at the Sup­
ply Rom awaiting the issue of new 
hats; it seems the fellows have out­
grown their present chapeaux be­
cause of the fine parade given the 
afternoon of Wednesday, the 12th. 
The proceedings were reviewed by ' 
Col. Lucin K. Crumine, command­
ing officer, Pittsburgh Subdistrict
and his staff, Lt. Col. Springer and 
Capt. Meade Norman. Col. Crumine, 
who was invited by Maj. Boberg to 
review our troops, remarked upon 
the smoothness of the display and 
also upon the fine showing made by 
the Reserve Unit which is in train­
ing here.
* * *
The A.S.T.R.P. will be decked out 
in their winter issue, O.D., uniforms 
this coming Saturday, September
23rd. The boys will be permitted to 
wear them off duty after September 
20th.
* * *
BIG EVENT BIG EVENT!
Plans are under way. Arrange­
ments are being made for the big 
event which will take place on 
Thursday evening, September 28th. 
It will be a dance with the A.S.T. 
R.P. and freshman girls of C.I.T. 
The date is known, but the details 
of the dance itself will be given out 
later, when the entire plan is for­
mulated. Get hep, girls, and be 
ready to step out September 28th.* * *
As we all know, Capt. John A. 
Thomas is on his vacation for two 
weeks. The great questions in many 
of the minds of his collegues are: 
(1) Where is he? and (2) What is 
he doing? Well, here are the an­
swers to your questions. While Lt. 
Vivian A. Courtney is trying to fig­
ure out how to get 37 hours of work, 
a day, into 24 hours, Capt. Thomas 
is in Hackensack, Minnesota, turn­
ing native, slowly but surely. In 
fact, Lt. Courtney received a letter 
from him written on some tree bark. 
Next, they’ll be issuing us bows and 
arrows and having Miss Louise G. 
Russell teaching us the manual of 
bows and arrows; just to keep up 
with our captain.
Samuel E. Firestone, — Albert 
Rauer, — William Vivori.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COKES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Friends—Wonder how long I can 
conscientiously open like that? This 
shall be just short looks at practic­
ally everyone—don’t believe they’d 
appreciate my seeing much more.
Freshie Ann Richards has been 
sporting Dick McCloskey’s Beta pin 
this last week. Congrats!
Who was the Maggie Murph 
freshman who turned down the of­
fer to be pin-up girl of the Mech- 
Aero dept.?
Big News! Georgia McCracken is 
back again. She’s a swell kid, so the 
Navy says.
Doris (Speedy) Fast’s (?) navy 
man was seen on campus — with 
Scotty Atkinson!
Andy Groomes and Grant Cav- 
ender—are old flames flickering?
What’s this big talk about Marcia 
Wachter and Pat Turton’s summer 
love affairs?
What’s going to happen? The 
Ouija board at the Kappa’s coke 
party insisted that Betty Floyd 
would marry Beta Bob Ambrose.
Ann Sweeney can really flash 
those eyes at Paul Castner over 
their daily bridge game.
Margie Volk and Chuck Tray are 
said to be on the beam and sailing 
high.
A little foursome consisting of 
blonde bomber Anne Shively, 
Keeny Wallece, Peggy Glenn and 
Paul Stide were having a big time 
the other night.
For some reason'Earle Young has 
taken an intense liking to bridge. 
$64 question: Why?
How far did those five Delt 
pledges push Elliott’s car last Labor 
Day? Nice day for labor?
General Brown’s army seems to 
have developed a passion for drill­
ing.
The five junior Electricals this 
semester are fast becoming bridge 
experts due to their progress dur­
ing Electrical recitations.
Friends—Good People, I had a big 
time writing this and I hope you all 
liked it.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
24 HOUR 
SERVICE
ON —BLUES
O. P.’s
SUITS AND 
COATS
CAMPUS
CLEANERS
4609 FORBES STREET
Changes in Faculty ...
Continued from page 1 
Assistant Professor, Carnegie Li­
brary School; Mrs. Miriam F. Bol- 
duan, Instructor, Department of 
Chemistry; Esther Lucile Knowles,. 
Instructor, Home Economics.
Promotions:
Glen U. Cleeton, to Director, Di­
vision of Humanistic and Social 
Studies; Frederick Dorian, to Asso­
ciate Professor of Music; Raymond 
A. Fisher, to Associate Professor of 
Architectural Design; James Paul 
Fugassi, to Associate Professor of 
Chemistry; David Moskovitz, to As­
sociate Professor of Mathematics; 
Frederick Nims Rhines, to Associate 
'Professor of Metallurgical Engi­
neering; Joseph B. Rosenbach, to 
Secretary, Division of Humanistic 
and Social Studies; Robert W. 
Schmertz, to Associate Professor of 
Architectural Design; Ethel Spen­
cer, to Associate Professor of Eng­
lish; Allen Edward Risedorph, to 
Head, Intramural Athletics; Martha 
Peadon Eggers, to Assistant Pro­
fessor of Biology; Laura Ann Hays,
to Assistant Professor of Secretarial 
Studies; Elizabeth Schrader Kim­
berly, to Assistant Professor in 
Stage Costume; James Stark Koeh­
ler, to Assistant Professor of Phys­
ics; Roy Walters Prowell, to Assist­
ant Professor of Mechanical Engi­
neering.
Leaves of Absence:
Marguerite F. Abbott, Richard F. 
Clippinger, Norton B. Crowell, Dora 
M. Einert, Vincent Freimarck, Har­
riet F. Glendon, Howard C. Griffin, 
Paul N. Gustafson, Arnold D. Hes- 
tenes, Louis M. Laushey, Nathan 
Miller, Peter Muller-Munk, Albert 
J. Murphy, Jr., Warren L. McCabe, 
Glenn C. McCombs, David S. Mc­
Kinney, Edwin G. Olds, Raymond 
E. Parshall, Milton O. Schmidt, 
Frederick Seitz, O. C. Simpson, 
Turner L. Smith, Homer E. Sterling, 
Beryl E. Warden, J. C. Warner, Rob­
ert York, Jr.
Resignations:
Clayton C. Bayard, Maurice L. 
Carroll, Althea Currin, Robert S. 
Gill, Martin Neuworth, Gladys E. 
Riggs, Harry G. Schrickel, Helen F. 
Steele, Robert P. Saalbach.
"Spirit of Victory”
The American Telephone and Telegraph Com­
pany, its twenty-one associated operating tele­
phone companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories, 
and Western Electric Company, continue to face 
unprecedented demands for telephone communi­
cation.
Never before in the country's history has there 
been so much evidence of the indispensable part 
telephone service plays in the life of the nation. 
It makes a direct contribution to the effectiveness 
of every part of the war effort.
The sense of responsibility which telephone 
people call the 66spirit of service99 is in this war 
the “spirit of victory.99 The men and women of the 
Bell System, in whom this spirit lives, may be relied 
upon to do their utmost,
I v BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War 9

---------------------------------------------------

4THE, CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1944
Basketball Schedule 
Announced; Winter 
Intramurals Planned
Carnegie Tech has 14 basketball 
games lined up for the 1944-’45 sea­
son. The schedule is as follows: 
December 5 Geneva College at 
Beaver Falls.
9 Case at Tech.
16 Westminster College 
at Tech.
January 6 Juniata College at 
Huntingdon, Pa.
10 University of Pitts­
burgh at Tech.
12 Penn State at Tech.
20 West Virginia Uni­
versity at Morgan­
town.
27 University of Pitts­
burgh at Pitt.
February 3 Case at Cleveland.
7 Penn State at State 
College.
10 Geneva College at 
Tech.
24 Juniata College at 
Tech.
27 Westminster College 
at New Wilmington.
March 3 West Virginia Col­
lege at Tech.
Since the war has necessitated 
curtailing the varsity sports pro­
gram, intramural sports will play 
an increasingly important role in 
campus life.
The entries for the touch foot­
ball league must be in by Septem­
ber 22. It is six-man football, and 
no group may enter more than 
twelve men for its teams. There 
will probably be awards given if 
five or more teams enter the com­
petition. The games will be played 
on the soccer field.
Warren Snow was re-elected pres­
ident of the executive council of the 
intramural board; Irwin Aisenberg 
was elected secretary, and Private 
Hartley will be military representa­
tive- . ^
Notice:
Members of the Women’s and 
Men’s Rifle Team should see Sgt. 
Dobbs in Rm. 238, I. H. from 12:00 
to 5:00 today, Tuesday, September 
19, 1944.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
C.I.T. Orchestra . . • C./.T. Benefit.
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Continued from page 1 
sisted of almost ninety players and 
broadcasted series of concerts over 
a nation-wide radio network.
Dr. O’Brien, the director of 
the Tech symphony from its be­
ginning, announces that he will 
welcome all instrumental players 
who have had some orchestra ex­
perience. Violinists and other string 
players are especially needed. Vol­
unteers will have a splendid oppor­
tunity to acquaint themselves with 
the best symphony music at the 
same time that they help Carnegie 
Tech to keep its place among top 
ranking college orchestras.
Rehearsals are Monday and 
Thursday nights from 6:30 until 8.
Continued from page 1 
Prissy Dodge, Helen Robinson, Babs 
Burns, and Emerick Zimbole. Pro­
fessor Dawes will be master of cere­
monies and it is rumored that Mr. 
Elliott may contribute his bit as 
well.
One hundred aides chosen in 
equal numbers from the Cwens 
Mortar Board, the Sororities, and 
each of the girls in the four classes 
will flit about in gold pinafores mak­
ing everything gay. Mrs. Doris 
Meyers is taking charge of appoint­
ing and robing the girls.
Anyone interested in becoming a 
sponsor should get in touch with 
Mrs. Carl Glock at 1450 Whiteman 
Street.
La Traviata, Opening Sept. 15, 
Begins May Beegle Concerts
The twenty-second season of 
“May Beegle Concerts,” Thomas P. 
Beegle, Manager, will again bring 
outstanding stars of the music world 
to Pittsburgh.
In addition to presenting favorite 
artists' of other seasons, the course 
will feature several new ensemble 
as attractions. Grand opera, ballet 
and light opera will be on the list.
The opening event on Saturday 
evening, October 15, will be Verdi’s 
tuneful opera “La Traviata,” per- 
sented by a company of 70, under a 
Metropolitan cast, orchestra, and 
chorus under the direction of Gui- 
seppe Bamboschek and featuring 
Nadine Conner, Carlo Morelli and 
Jacques Gerard.
The Ballet Theatre (Russian Bal­
let) which recently broke all at­
tendance records at the Metropoli­
tan Opera House in a six weeks run 
will appear on Tuesday evening, 
November 14th, with its celebrated 
list of ballerinas including Alicia 
Markova, Nora Kaye, Maria Kanil- 
ova and Shirley Eckl, the latter 
from Pittsburgh. Among the bal­
lets to be included are Fancy Free 
and Tally-Ho.
Fritz Kreisler, the world’s most 
beloved violinist, will make his only 
Pittsburgh appearance of the season 
on Saturday evening, December 2.
Arthur Rubinstein, sensational 
and exciting Polish pianist who 
scored such a great success here 
with the Pittsburgh Orchestra, will
give his first resital at Syria Mosque, 
and his only Pittsburgh appearance, 
on Saturday evening, January 13.
Johann Strauss’ famous Viennese 
operetta, The Gypsy Baron will be 
presented on Saturday evening, Feb­
ruary 24, by the New York City 
Center Opera Company under the 
official auspices of New York City. 
This production will be under the 
artistic and musical direction of 
Laszlo Halasz and Herbert Graf, the 
latter of the Metropolitan Opera 
Company. -
Ezio Pinza, greatest operatic bas­
so in the world, will return by pop­
ular demand on Saturday evening, 
March 10, for his only Pittsburgh 
appearance of the season.
The final event of the subscrip­
tion series will bring Bidu Sayao, 
the captivating Brazilian soprano of 
the Metropolitan Opera Association, 
in a full length recital on Saturday 
evening, April 7.
Extra attractions to which sub­
scribers of the regular series are 
given special privileges are Jean­
nette MacDonald, idol of stage and 
screen, on Tuesday evening, No­
vember 21, Jose Iturbi, celebrated 
pianist and star of radio, screen and 
concert stage on Saturday evening, 
February 10, The Monte Carlo Bal­
let on Saturday afternoon and even­
ing, February 17, and the original 
Don Cossack Singers under Serge 
Jaroff on Saturday evening, 
March 3.
SYRIA
MOSQUEMay ßeacjle Go+toesitb Evenings
Saturday, October 14
“LA TRAVIATA”
Opera With Metropolitan Cast 
Tuesday, November —
THE BALLET THEATRE
Sunday, December 2
FRITZ KREISLER
Saturday, January IS
ARTUR RUBINSTEIN
Saturday, February t4
“THE GYPSY BARON”
Johann 8trauM Light Opera 
Saturday, March 10
EZIO PINZA
Saturday, April 7 — BIDU SAYAO
Special Student Rate Sale New Si xt Alexander's, 608 Wood St.
PRICES—$6.00, $7.20, $9.00, $9.90
To secure these rates present your identification card at box offlet at Alexander’s from 9:30 to 5:00 daily.
SYMPHONY CONCERTS
Pittsburgh Orchestra Association Presents Four Concerts At Mosque
Sunday Afternoon, October 29
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor 
Sunday Afternoon, November 5
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor
Saturday Afternoon, April tl
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor 
Sunday Afternoon, April 29
PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
Eugene Ormandy, Conductor
STUDENT RATES: $1.70. $1.80. $3.00, $3.60, $5.40
Five Years Ago ..,
By Bob Teasdale
Probably very few people in 
school now have ever seen the Tar­
tan in a different form. However, 
five years ago the paper was much 
different. Through both the old and 
the new issue contained four pages, 
the old issue measured 17 x 22%” 
as compared to llVz x 16%” for the 
present issue. The ’39 issue repre­
sented a peacetime Tech with col­
lege life in full swing. It is inter­
esting to note what items were news 
then:
Dr. B. R. Teare, Jr., was brought 
to Tech from Yale through a 50,000 
dollar Buhl Foundation Grant to 
head a program of advanced studies.
The first Freshman class ever to 
schedule Social Relations started 
this year due to a Falk Foundation 
gift of $300,000.
A sorority girl broke her wrist 
after falling while testing the “sure 
safe” Birch Hall fire escape.
Boss Hall had been completely 
redecorated during the summer va­
cation.
The 1939 engineer graduates re­
ceived an average starting salary of 
$122 a month.
Sophomore Edward Kaplan was 
awarded the William Lowell Put­
nam Scholarship for excellence in 
mathematics in a nation-wide ex­
amination.
The freshman grid outlook was 
not bright—only 32 candidates.
Column after column appeared 
deploring freshman hazing and urg­
ing “a genuinely friendly spirit” be­
tween the classes.
The Varsity football prospect was 
very fine because of thirty return­
ing letter men headed by Condit 
and Muha. The team was living as 
a group in Scobell Hall, and their 
schedule included Notre Dame, 
Temple, Pitt, and Holy Cross.
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE 
¦
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIMIM FIOIRAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE 
CORPORATION
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15o
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Cral* Street
