GLEE CLUB DANCE j
PLAID NIGHT HAWKS j
FRI. UNION $1.50
I W.&J. FOOTBALL DANCE 
j COLLEGIATE IMPS 
I SAT. UNION $1.50
VOL. XXIII, NO. 4, PART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 192S.
Carnegie’s Football Men Vanquish Thiel 
in Interesting B attle at Ball Park Sat.
Blue and Gold Score Twice with Passes
Students Must Exchange 
Game Tickets For Seats
Thiel Uncover» Good Over­
head Attack to Garner 
Only Two Touchdowns 
in First Half.
SAUL MIELZINER BACK AT OLD POSITION AT GUARD
Tartans Meet W. & J. on Saturday. Will Attempt to Shake Off Old Jinx.
If those ardent followers of Car­negie's football fortunes who were so unfortunate as not to see last Saturday’s game loolc diligently through the sporting section of the Pittsburgh papers they will see that the West Virginia Mountain­eers defeated Pitt. A little lower down they will discover that Du-qucsne won from W. & J. and that Charleroi ,Hi defeated Schcn- ley. Then, if they are somewhat adept at finding such elusive ar­ticles as those concerning Car­negie’s football prospects they will learn that Wally Steffen’s Tar­tans, although being scorcd ontwice by the Blue and Gold from Thiel, displayed real power in win­ning from the Mercer County boys, 45-13. This, indeed, is true and that game marks the end of Carnegie’s minor games for this season. This week the schedule starts in earnest with W. & J. carded to appear at Forbes Field 
for the afternoon’s fun.The Tarjan’s performed in just the same manner as tlicv did dur­ing the past two games. They scorcd heavily and made them­selves obnoxious in general to those staunch ‘supporters of Thiel who came to Schenley Park with the intent of seeing the Plaid go down in defeat. But it was just these few people who entertained any hope for a Thiel victory. The remainder expected . the rcd-jer- seyed players to dispose of their opponent in exactly the same man­ner in which they did. Carnegie scorcd heavily and constantly threatened Thiel’s, goal line. The score would have been much larg­er if Carnegie had not been com­pelled to gain much of its ground twice on account of being penaliz­ed, Time after time the ball was brought back five, 10 or 15 yards or some infraction of the rules, .„.ibliiij, also proved costly to. the t'artan cause, the ball being lost t\yice in this manner under the shadow of tlie goal posts. Apart from this, however, the boys play- '.d well. The passing attack was ’air and the end* runs up to par. 3f special interest was the suc- :css of the famous end around 
>lay, in which the .end carries the ball. L. Flannagan and Tony Sweet reeled off some nice runs by this means' and showed sur­prising ability in ducking and recovered from his injuries of the past week, was sent into the game and in eight straight plays took the way in which Thiel’s line buckled up when lie crashed into it was beautiful to watch. During tlie Second quarter Dutch Eyth, fully crcd from his injuries of the past vvbek, was sent into the game and in eight straight plays took the ball over for a touchdown. The manner in which he did this shows that Dutch’s ability is not limited to end runs, for every play of the 
eight was through the line. It seems as if Carnegie has a baclc- field composed of four fullbacks. The ability of Karcis and Letzel- Icr is known to all, while Eyth and Harpstcr arc no dubs at the line hashing game. The ,play of the he was good and was, made bet- r, perhaps, by the aoocarance of ul Mielzincr, who was operated less than a month ago. Saul 11 be1 in the pink of condition • the tough games of the season iliis remarkable recovery is any Ucatiori of his future dcvelop- nt. Leonard Schnupp is- still civics and it is not known when will be back at his position at ml.Liic game started in the same hion as its two predecessors.(Continued on Page Five)
;osh Again Defeated; 
Lose To U. W. Va., 19-9
)n a day which was more con- ive to baseball than football, Carnegie Plebe Eleven went ,vn to defeat at the hands of the :st Virginia Frosh gridmen. lether it was due to the exce's- «?.; heat or to the toughness of Hillbillies, it can’t be said, but ualties were heavy on the Car­rie team. . Iiozicki and Ziegler vvi-tc forced out of play complete­ly, and the rest of the squad were 'pretty badly used up.All of the Carnegie points were made in the first quarter. Tn the first few minutes of play Carnegie punted and Waggoner was down­ed by Ziegler behind the Moun- taincrs’ goal line for a safety. With play starting after the next kick-off the Carnegie men un­leashed a whirlwind attack that resulted in a touchdown. It seem­ed i that nothing would stop this uttaclv as Ewing and Pounccy ¡mashed through the line and '.icgler ran the ends like a verita­
ble deverish. Pounccy placed a icautiful drop kick _ through the 'ars ior the extra point.In the second quarter Marker, ¦n 65 yards for a touchdown. On is play Archer ran Marker very >sc to the. side-line, and thinking had forced him out of bounds (Continued on Page Two)
Y.M.C.A. CABINET TO MEET 
AT LUNCHEON TODAY
An important meeting of 'the Y. 
M. C. A. Cabinet will be held
iuesday. The meeting will be 
in the form of a luncheon at the 
Carnegie Inn Dining Room and 
will follow the Chapel exercises to 
be held in the Little Theater, Col­
lege of Fine Arts. All members 
of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet should 
be at chapel by 11:30 today. The 
cabinet will meet with Dr. For­
sythe of the Sixth Presbyterian 
Church, corner of Murray and 
Forbes street. Carnegie Tech 
night, held at this church, has be­
come an- annual »affair at which there has always been a large at­tendance. It is essential that all members of the cabinet be present at the meeting as plans for thec.ming year will be made and an­nounced later.
Alumni Federation Plans 
To Hold its Class Reunion 
Honoring Class of 1908
Biggest Alumni Dinner Dance Ever Held is Scheduled For Friday Night
Five Graduate classes will hold their reunions at the Second An­nual Alumni Homecoming on Oc­tober 26 and 27, the Friday and Saturday of the Carnegie-Pitt game.The first graduating class, that of 1908, will be given highest honors, in consideration of their part in establishing the institution as a college. The class oi 1908 is holding its twentieth reunion. J- he classes of 19lo} ui 1918, that of 1923 and of 1928 will also have reunions.
The program for the homecom­ing will open with an Alumni Fed­eration meeting in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium at 11 o’clock Friday morning.
After the business of the day is transacted the homecomcrs will be .served with a buffet luncheon in the field-house under the Margaret Morrison building. Doctor Baker has invited the 1908 class and their husbands or their wives to luncti in his office in the Administration building.
The afternoon . will be left open to permit inspection of grounds, exploring familiar places of collegc days, and meeting again the "profs” of bygone days. The entire faculty will hold open house in their offices.In the evening the alumni dinner dance will be held at Webster Hall. The affair will be in Cabaret style and jyill last until 12 o’clock. The 
Collegiate . Imps will furnish music.The old Collegiate Six will be back to play some familiar pieces of the days when . . . Obic Newman will return and sing for the crowd. Sev­
eral other alumni will entertain. In addition, vaudeville stunts from one of the downtown theaters will be given. All of the old Carnegie songs will be sung.
Webster Hall has made room for the affair by moving its regular Fri­
day night dance to the Venetian Room, so that the Cabaret dance ma}' be held in the main dining hall.Reservations for the cabaret dance should be made at once, since the main dining room has room for 
only 350 people and further arrange­ments will have to be made in case more care to come. Tickets for the evening may be obtained from Miss Andrews at the alumni office. A coupon on the inside page will facili­tate getting the_ tickets. They will be $2.50 each or $5 a couple.The affair will be exclusively for alumni.
On Saturday, at 10:30, there will be plates sunk in the floor of Ad­ministration hall, representing each of the returning classes The design 
will be diamond-shaped centering around the largest plate, 1908. Every classes will eventually have a plate dedicated to it.
At 12 the class reunions will be held and luncheons will be served. (Continued on Page Six)
New Appointments To 
Thistle Staff Announced
Staff appointments for the com­ing year book were made at a meeting of the Thistle staff last Wednesday. The announcement was also made that thè Thistle pictures will be taken during the latter part of this month when the representa-» live of tlje White Studio's will ar­rive from New York.The book will be divided into five sections, cach section dealing with a part of the school activities. Section editors have been appoint­ed and their staffs, consisting of Juniors and Sophomores, will be announced later.Phil Hubbard has ’ been chosen editor of the section to be en­
titled, “The School.” Activities are under thc> direction* of J. G. Bair, and Organization under G. L. Dunn. Eleanor Arter, a Junior secretarial in M. M. C. C., will be in charge of the section known as “Tradi­
tions.” The editor of the athletic section is as vet undecided.The schedule for the taking of (Continued on Page Four)
Beginning with the Carnegie 
Tech-W. & J. game this Saturday, 
and continuing throughout the 
football season this year, it will 
be necessary for all students to 
exchange their student tickcts for 
reserved seats. This exchange may 
be made at the office of the .Grad­
uate Manager, Clarence Ovcrend, 
whose office- is located on the. first 
floor of the Gymnasium BuildingsThis regulation is in effect /or the home games at Forbes Field, as well as for the games played away. However, no charge will be made for the exchange^ of'a ticket for a game at Forbes Field. Failure to exchange a ticket will mean that admission to the game will .be refused.
Students arc warned against loan­ing their student tickcts to others. These tickcts must be signed by the owner, exchanged at the Grad­uate Manager's office, and used by the owner only.
Inter Fraternity Council
Sets Bidding Period
Suggestion That Dances Be Elimi­nated From Rushing Season Is Tabled.
At the last meeting of Interfra­ternity Council, which was held Saturday morning, October 6, sev­eral important matters in regard to rushing were brought up and dis­cussed.
It was decided that fraternity men living in the dorms with plebes be forced to move, cither out of the dorms, or to. rooms with up­perclassmen.
The suggestion that- dances, thea­ter parties, and professional enter­tainers be eliminated; from rushing season to lighten the* financial bur­den of the various fraternities' was tabled until .the next meeting, Oc­tober 27.
After much discussion, the period of bidding for this year’s rushing season was set. It was decidedthat bids could be extended to rushees beginning Monday, Decem­ber 3, at 8:30 a. in., and continuing until midnight of. Saturday, Decem­ber 8.
The following is a complete set of rushjng regulations which have beer, decided upon by Interfratcr- nity Council, and which will be in force this year:
Section 1. Rushing of fall regis­trants shall begin with a rushing period starting Saturday, November 24, at 8:30 a. mi, and terminating at midnight. Saturday, December 8.Section 2. The period of bid­ding shall begin Monday, Dccem- 3, at 8:30 a. m. and continue (Continued on Page -Five)
Varsity Crosscountry > 
Team Vanquishes Thiel
Carnegie's supremacy -over Thiel last Saturday was not limited to football. As a sort of breaking-in process, to prepare the Thiel sup­porters for a football defeat in the afternoon, the Plaid crosscountry team used the morning to good ad- ya age in defeating the game Thiel harriers here by a 19-42 count. Max ballon, Carnegie’s iron -man; running' at the rate of six miles in thirty minutes, fifty-five and two-fifth sec­onds, by authority of Coach Guy Kalferty, crossed the finish line a minute ahead of Worley, a sopho­more teammate. Pelc of Thiel was third across the line, twenty- two seconds behind Worley.
Salkins ran, and finished, as though he took six-mile runs for appetizers. He led the boys up the hill at the beginning of the course in Schenley Park and was at the head of the field by thirty 3'ards at the half-way mark. As the pack passed under the bridge and around Schenley Park Salkins was thirty yards in front, followed by Anderson of Carnegie and Pelc of Thiel. Salkin gradually increased the lead until 2£) yards of thin 
atmosphere at the finish separated him from Worley, who had come up to pass Pelc and Anderson
Although the Plaid team won by a considerable margin, one of the weavers of the grey lost a heart­breaking battle. Phil Magn uson, running a fine race to come down the finish path in fourth place, col­lapsed 100 yards from the finish line, thus being deprived of a scor­ing place. Magnuson stuck it out as long as he could and was com­pletely out of the picture when the boys picked him up. He pulled around all right in fifteen minutes oi so.
The first five men to score for Carnegie were: Salkins/ first; Wor­ley, second; Hubbard, fourth; An­derson, fifth; McCombs, seventh. •Thiel’s scorers were: Pelc, third; (Continued on Page Five)
FIRST CHAPEL OF YEAR IN LITTLE THEATER TODAY
Carnegie Y. M. C. A. Proves Invaluable
Aid in Locating Stranded Syrian Boy
Beri Garabedian’s home' was in 
Syria. His father and mother had 
moved to America and were living 
near Madison. Wis. Beri’s older 
brother worked at Carnegie Tech. The family had planned for years that the younger brother would also come to America and, with 
his parents, enjoy the liberality and freedom of the great middle-.West- crn country in the United States.April came, and with it the pro­mise of fulfillment of the Gara- bedian wish. Beri was to sail in May 'for New York!
Railroad connections in Syria are not what they might be, and with many delays, it was early in June before Beri left «the continent. Arriving, in New York, lie left im­mediately for Pittsburgh; where he
was to meet his older brother and receive additional funds and direc­tion before proceeding to Madison, brother was gone! He had taken brother was goen! He had taken summer employment with a firm in Canada, and coU’.d not be rcached. Beri was stranded. He I sought the Y. M. C. A., an organ­ization with which he had become | familiar even in far-off Syria. And the Carnegie “Y” functioned as lie had felt that it would. Beri was taken care of in Pittsburgh and rtlien sent on to Madison through the activity of the campus organ- j ixation. He is now a firm believer in the principles and practices of the Y. M. C. A. Were he now at Carnegie. Beri Garabedian would be an enthusiastic supporter of the present membership campaign.
Prof. Hofmann to Speak at 
Carnegie Coal Conference
Delegates From Many Countries To Discuss Coal and Its By-Products
Among the speakers at the Seer ond International Conference fin Bituminous Coal to be held under the auspices of Carnegie .Tech dur­ing the week of November 19 will be Professor Fritz Hofmann of Breslau, Germany, who will present a report on his work in connec­tion with efforts of German scien­tists to make synthetic rubber from coal by-products.Prof. Hofmann is a pioneer in the search for ways manufacturing artificial rubber, and-’ was partly responsible for a process of pro­ducing the product, which while not practical commercially at pres­ent may become of economic value, in the . future.Eighteen years ago Hofmann sub­mitted his first developed synthetic rubber to the Continental Rubber Company in Hanover. This pro­duct was built on previous research done by the Englishman Tildcn,the German, Harries,-'and particu­larly, _ the- Russian, Kankadoff. Chemical . s.ynthethis of isoprene, the scientific name for syntheticrubber, was then possible by com­bining carbon and hydrogen under certain condition.!?,- but the difficulty remained in imparting to synthetic rubber‘Its peculiar physical prop­erties. By heating the basic hydro­carbons, a synthetic rubber con­glomerate was found that .had cer­tain physical properties of. natural rubber. .
During the war, German DyeTrust plants produced syntheticrubber at the rate of probably ¡2,500 tons annually, or' one-eighth of Germany’s normal consumption. Germany's war-time' synthetic rub­ber was by no means ideal in properties, however, and Professor Hofmann referred to it as a “hot­house . plant.” It 1 tended to de­composition in presence of oxygen of the air, while it> was not sus­ceptible to vulcanizing.At this point, Professor Hofmann and his colleagues found the so- called organic accelerators and re­finers, the “Vulcacitc,” capable not only of permitting vulcanization but of rendering the product insensi- tiye to light and air. Use of these auxiliary products-, has since gained significance in processing natural rubber, while adding substantially to improving the quality of syn­thetic rubber.Since the war, moreover, great progress has been made in Ger­many in the manufacture of organic compounds-from coal. The Bergius process -for making petroleum by combining hydrogen with coal, which was described at the Car­negie coal conference two j'ears ago,' has shown sufficient promise of proving practical and profitable that the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey lias invested in it. Dr. Bergius' will also attend the coming Coal Congress, Carnegie T ech officials have 'announced.Professor Hofmann will be one (Continued on Page Four)
Tea for Freshmen Opens- 
Sorority Rushing Period
Inter-Sorority Council Arranges Set Of Rushing Rules For New Year
Sorority rushing formally opened on .Friday, October 12, at 4:30. with an Jnter-sorority Tea in the Ex­hibition Room of the College of Fine Arts under the auspices of the College of Fine Arts Council. All Plebe women were the guests of the Council, of which Grace Jar- rett is President. A program of entertainment was presented, and Dean Green poured tea.
Each sorority is limited to one major function, which must be held on a week-end evening. Saturday, October 13, was the date of the Beetle entertainment. The dates set for the other sororities are: Friday, October 19, Gamma - Gamma Gamma; Saturday, October 20, Alpha Kappa Psi; Friday, October 26, Beta Pi. Following tliese events, a period- of silence will be maintained from midnight on Sun­day, October 2S until 4:30 on Wednesday, October 31. Bids must be in the office of the Dean of Women- by 1:30 on Monday after­noon, October 29, and the answers of the rushee ready for the sorori­ties on Wednesday, October- 31, at 4:30. p. m.
There arc four recognized local so'rorities in the College of Fine Arts. They arc Alpha Kappa Psi, Beetle, Beta Pi and Gamma Gamma Gamma. Members are chosen from those students who are working for a degree.
The Inter-sorority Council is an organization. of all recognized so­cial sororities. Its purpose is to decide questions involving relations between the sororities; the recogni­tion of new sororitie:,; control of scholastic, -athletic, and other inter- sorority activities, and control of sorority rushing - and xilcdging.
The following rushing rules have been passed by the Council and arc in effect for the school year 1928- 1929:A. Rushing shall be formally opened by an Inter-sorority Tea under the auspices of the Inter- sorority Couqcil on a Friday after­noon in the Exhibition Rooms of the College of Fine Arts about the second week of October. Rushing season shall last approximately two weeks, consisting of. three week­ends.B. Rushing events are limited to four functions. A detailed budget of all expenses is required from cach sorority the second Monday after rushing.C. Rushing is prohibited by a sorority as a group until after the Inter-sorority Tea. (Group mean- in" two girls of the same sorority.)D. No more than $100 must be spent to cover rushing expense's including all money spent for ac­tive sorority members, their guests, alumni', pledges and their guests. No donations allowed during rush ing except the use of one’s home.E. No money is to be spent on individual rushing. Town girls(Continued on Page Four)
Winner of Pitt-Carnegie 
Game Will Get Trophy,
The University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Tech, received con­gratulations from Mayor Charles H. Kline and Council when the ity’s lawmakers passed a resolu-1 tion on the afternoon of October S, at the instance of President James F. Malone.The institutions have been felici­tated by this resolution on their I agreement of a joint use of the stadium, which gives it a new civic value to the community. Saturday, October 27. the day of the Pitt-Tech game, has been de­signated as “Pittsburgh Football Day.” The Council also promises a trophy provided by the city, to b<T passed annually to the vic­torious team.A committee consisting of Goun- cilmcn Robert Garland, John S. Herron and Daniel Winters was appointed to decide upon the nature of the trophy and to provide it. A committee of Council members will be present giving official cog­nizance to important events at the stadium.
An inspiring talk and a delight­ful musical program marked the first Chapel Service of the school year which was held in the Little Theater of the Arts School, today, at 11:30 o'clock.
Dr. II. H. Forsyth of the Sixth, Presbyterian Church, was the elo­quent speaker ,of the occasion. Dr. T. S. Baker, President of the Car­negie Institüte of Technology, pre­sided.
The soloist was Malcolm Hilty of the voice department of the Arts School. lie was accompanied by Matthew Frey of the faculty of the Music Department.Dr. Baker is making every ef­fort to have the best speakers in (Continued on Page Four)
Dr. Hatfield To Give Three 
Talks October 16, 17, 18
A series of three public lectures on \ron and steel will be given under the auspices of the Carnegie Institute of Technology,, by Dr. W. H. Hatfield, British metallur­gist, tonight, tomorrow and Thurs­day nights, at 8:30, in the Union. The series is announced as the first in ,the 1928-1929 program of 
public lectures, arranged by Presi­dent Thomas S. Baker and his as­sociates for the benefit of Pitts­burgh men of science, engineering, and industry.
Dr. Hatfield is research director of the Brown-Firth Research Labo­ratories in England and is the, Ed­ward. De Mille Campbell Memorial Lecturer this vcar for the American Society for Steel Treating. His scientific and metallurgical educa­tion _ was received at Sheffield Uni­versity where he took his Bachclor, Master and Doctor degrees and was both Mappin Medalist and Carnegie Scholar. He has been associated for many years with the Brown-Firth Research Laboratories which, it is well known, contributes to the scientific and technical prog­ress of one of the largest European interests. One of the firms, Messrs. John Brown and Company, is re­puted to have been responsible for the building of about one-third of the Grand Fleet and the other as­sociated firm, Messrs. Thos. Hirtli and Sons; Ltd.. produced enough shells during the war “to blast" a (Continued on Page Two)
Carnegie Represented 
At Printing Convention
Dr. Thomas S. Baker and Mr. Gustafson, heads, of the Printing Department of Carnegie. Institute of Technology represented Carnegie Tech at the forty-second annual convention of the- United Typo- thetae of America which • was held at Quebec, Canada, from October 1 to October 6.-The convention opened Monday morning with the meeting of the Executive Committee. In the after­noon a number of the auxiliaries of the United Typothetae of Amer­ica held their opening sessions.. The official opening session of the convention came to order in the evening at 8 o’clock with President Lewis presiding and at which one of the outstanding addresses of the entire week was given by Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, one' of Can­ada’s foremost statesmen, who was the principal speaker. For enter­tainment, those present at the opening session had the pleasure of hearing M’sieu Louis/ Gravel, one of the greatest of the younger opera* singers.On Tuesday morning Mr. Wil­liam Pfaff of New Orleans spoke on "The Training of Yesterday.” Following this speech, Professor D. Gustafson spoke on “The Training of Today and Tomorrow*,” showing •how the printing industry has pro­gressed . since the introduction of efficient schools for printing. Dr. i Baker then addressed the conven- I (Continued on Page Four)
Carnegie “Y” Financial Campaign 
Opens with Successful Banquet 
for Drive Workers in Commons
TARTAN TO SPONSORPRIZE YÈLL CONTEST
Collegiate Imps To Play 
At Carnegie=W.&J.Dance
“Blues” Singer and Dance Specialty I Will Afford Unusual Attraction j To All Attending.
Carnegie Tech hereby inaugu­rates a drive for new yells to keep cheer-leaders busy at athletic con­tests of the future. Buddy Over­end, graduate manager, has do­nated prizes for a yell contest to start with this issue of the Tar­tan. The- prizes will be pairs ofreserved scat tickets for the N. Y. U. game at Forbes Field, Novem­ber 24. The number of prizes will depend upon the number of yells accepted by the judges. The con­test ends on November 24.This contest gives students a chance to submit their pet cheers. All those boys who have been practicing cheers of their own manufacture 'may now offer their yells to the school. They might be lucky enough to tell the girl­friends at the N. Y. U. game,1 “That’s my yell!’’’¦"All suggestions should be mailed or brought to Bob Wood, in care’ of the Tartan.
Large Number of Students 
Attend Annual Affair 
of Organization
DR. BAKER AND DR. DAY
PRINCIPAL SPEAKERS
Campaign Committees Organized In 
Each School Under Direction 
of William McNeil-
The evening of the Carnegie-W. & J. football game is the date of the third football dance of this season which will be held in the Union at 9 p. m. on Saturday, October 26. Music will be fur­nished by the Collegiate Imps, who have been very popular at tfhe football dances held this j^ear.The-Collegiate Imps will be Com­posed of eleven pieces this Satur­day instead of the usual eight, so that the music will probably be even better than usual. Extra en­tertainment will be furnished by a dancer or a “Blues” singer. De­spite these added features the price of admission will be the same as usual.The Carnegie Tcch-W. & J. game is always one of the most inter­esting games of the season. This year, especially, it is being antici­pated . eagerly for indications seem to point to a victory for Carnegie. The celebration of this victory at the Football Dance in the Union will be a lively and interesting affair which the students arc sure to enjoy. However, whether the game ends in victory or defeat, the dance will be a peppy one, and a good time is promised to all who attend.An invitation to attend the Foot­ball Dances is extended to the faculty and students of Carnegie, and also to their friends.
Student Council Favors 
Retaining Campus Week
Several important matters were discussed at the last meeting of the Student Council Tuesday eve­ning. The first matter for con­sideration was the question of the status of the students in charge of the bulletin boards and the Union chairman. The final de­cision was that these positions are- not student activities and may be held by fifth year men. Two pe­titions, one from Miss MargaretWageley and one from Miss Grace' Jarret, were, read asking fdr ex­ceptions to the Women’s Activities Point System. The petitions were granted.Howard Wilkoff, a’ junior in the Mechanical Engineering Depart­ment, presented the plans and fi­nancial program of the Aviation Club which is being formed on the campus. The decision of Council was withheld until this week when the . constitution of the proposed club can be presented at the meet­ing this evening.
A letter was read from Dean Tarbell in which he informed the Colmcil of the faculty ruling in Campus Week. At the last meet­ing of the Executive Board of the Faculty and the Executive Com­mittee of tlie Student Council the faculty decided on the complete abolition of Campus Week. The Council recommended that a letter be sent to the faculty committee reminding them that at the last meeting of the Student Council, before the close of school last Spring, that the Council went on record as being in favor of Cam­pus Week as it was celebrated two years ago, that is, with the Mardi Gras. Council also recommended that petitions be circulated among the students to determine the student opinion on the matter.Another letter from Dean Tar­bell referred to the Council the matter of some freshmen hazing which disturbed classes in the Science School last week. The (Continued on Page Six)
Annual Parents’ Day to 
be Observed October 20, 
Day of Wash-Jeff Game
Program to Include Inspection Tour, Lunch, Game and Entertainment
Parents’ Day, formerly known as Pa-Ma Day, will be observed on Saturday, October 20. 1928, the day of the W. & J. game. Notices to this- effect have been mailed to all parents of freshmen, so that a large number of visitors is expected. This year invitations have been extended only to the parents of freshmen, for the continued increase in the number of visitors on these occasions in the past few years has made it impossible for the com­mittee in charge to accommodate all. Parents and their children will be allowed to be together through­out the day, but at the evening entertainment in the Arts Theater, owing to the limited capacity, res­ervations will be made for parents only.
At 9 o’clock Saturday morning the parents will meet in the Exhi­bition Hall of the College of Fine Arts to meet the members of the faculty and to secure football, the­atre, and luncheon tickcts. Dr. Thomas Baker will deliver the ad­dress bf welcome in the Arts The­atre. Following this a tour of in­spection will be conducted, giving 
the parents an opportunity to visit the various shops, laboratories, and studios of the Institute. At 11:30 the luncheon will be served in the Commons.Falling"in behind the Kiltie Band, 
at 12:20, and led i by Prof. Kirk­patrick the entire group, visiting parents and freshmen, will march down to Forbes Field for the Freshman Game.. In view of the fact that only parents of freshmen will attend, it was thought that the game of the freshman squad, with the W. & J. freshmen, would be of particular interest. Imme­diately following the preliminary game, the Varsity meets the W. & J. eleven.At 8:15 an entertainment will be presented in the Theatre of the College of Fine Arts for the par­ents only. Professor H. S. Hower of the Physics Department will give a talk on the history of the school. Following this a one-act play “Superstition” will be presented by the students of the Drama De­partment. Members of the, Music Department will also, assist with the program.Following the program, the par­ents will be the honor gUests at the football dance at the Union, the Collegiate Imps furnishing the music.This will be the Sixth Annual Parents’ Day, and according to Mr. Wurts, chairmaan of the arrange­ments, it will be the most success­ful vet observed, judging from the number of replies already reocived from the parents. The purpose of the Day is to acquaint the parents with' the school, the students’ sur­roundings, and to arouse more in­terest in the institution.
PLANNING SECOND ISSUE OF CARNEGIE QUARTERLY
Plans are now being made for the publishing of a second is'Suc of. “The Carnegie Quarterly,” the literary magazine. Although noth­ing definite has been decided, there is reason to hope that the “Quar­terly’-’ will be on sale about Thanks­giving time.
'The entire matter of publishing the periodical is somewhat in doubt for two reasons. In the first place, the entire staff,” both editorial and business, graduated in June. * Since no definite pro­visions for the continuation of the magazine were made, and since no new editor was appointed to re­place Walter Browne Roger;, the initiative for the continuation of (Continued on Page Six)
Clans May Help Replace ¦ 
Needed Kiltie Uniforms
The Carnegie Tech Kiltie Band has grown to eighty men so far this year; fbrty-five are veteran upper classmen, and thirty-five are first - year men. The large per­centage of upper classmen who have had experience under ''Sully” make the material of high calibre who have worked hard learning the many new pieces and drilling to get into trim for the coming season. The members are well distributed over tlie different sec­tions in the band as shown by the splendid blending of the tone.It has been suggested that some new kiltie uniforms be contributed by the clans in the various parts of the country. The band would like to hear from, the clans on this proposed plan. The band needs twenty-two new uniforms to .take care of looses and replaces in order to have a band of eighty for the home games and a concert band of fifty pieces for the trips. By having a larger number of mem­bers, Director Sullivan can train (Continued on Page Six)
Last night the annual Y. M. C.A. and \. W. C. A. dinner was held at the Commons in prepara­tion for the financial drive of the “Y” at Carnegie. The two chief speakers of the evening were Dr, Baker and Dr. Day of the Christ M. E. Church. Other speakers were Miss Ann McKee for the Y.W. C. A. and Mr. William McNel’ - for the Y. M. C. A.' Dean Green acted as chairman of the banquet.1The attendance last night was unusually high, much larger than last year. All the members of both the men’s and" women’s organiza­tion were present, as well as the members of both student cabinets and of the Committees of Manage­ment of Y. W.^C. A. and Y. M. C,A. The organization last Friday was a great deal farther on tliaff it was at the same time last year. This proved a great advantage as it enabled all the canvassers to be present at the opening meeting to 
receive first-hand information and instruction as to the best way of going about the work. Subscrip­tion cards were passed to cach one last night so that the actual can­vass can begin.
1 lie school leader 6f the organ­ization is William McNeil, a senior in the Printing Department. lie has as his assistants, Ted Zenk in Art School, William Carson in Engineering, and George Harbison in Industries.
In Art School Ralph Hitchcock has charge of the P & D Depart­ment, and Waller Sickles and Roy Dietz of the Music Department.In Engineering the following havte charge: Seniors, John Britton;Juniors, Allen Bevcrstock; Soph­omores, Jack Carson.
In Industries, John Boyd will take care of the Seniors; Janies Ashwcll of the Juniors; and Ray Broscious of the Sophomores. Ed­ward Dolan has charge of the spe­cial students.In the women’s organization Blanche Bray is chairman in Art School and Katherine Anderson in Margaret Morrison. The assistants in Art School are Ina Campbell,' Senior; Olive Ritchey, Junior; Mil-* drcd Core, Sophomore; and Kath­ryn Wilson, Freshman.The Margaret Morrison chairman will be assisted, by Helen Booth, Senior; Rosemary Barr, Junior; Jane Moses, Sophomore; and Mar­tha Lou Clark, Freshman.The subscription rate is $3 for a membership in the Carnegie Y. M.;C. A. or $5 for a national member­ship card. The $5 card entitles the subscriber to all the privileges and accommodations of the various Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. units throughout the country. A mem- |bcrship card in the local Y. W. C.A. costs $1. The local Y. M. C. A. has done much and is doing more along the lines of a service organ­ization at Carnegie. The following items arc only a few' of its services:Giving, helpful information to Plebes through the Senior Counsel­lor plan.Cashing checks on the campus.Visiting sick in hospitals.Supplying radio outfits to sick and injured.Furnishing Club Memberships in city Y. M. C. A. branches to stu­dents unable to return home at Thanksgiving and holiday seasons.Assisting students from foreign lands, by helping them to get set- , tied at the period of registration, opening the way for studying Amer­ican men and methods by means of personal introductions, group discussion clubs, annual Foreign (Continued on Page Six)
Drama Dept. To Give 1st 
Showing of “Dark Hours”
The first showing of “The Dark Hours,” by Don Marquis, will be given at the Little Theatre about November 1 by members of the Drama Department. This presenta­tion of “The Dark Hours” marks its initial public appearance and is, in fact, a pre-showing of the play before its production in New York on the professional . stage. Car­negie, in no small way, is honored in being permitted to stage what may be a future Broadway success.Those interested in the presenta­tion of ."The Dark Hours” may find spice in the fact that, some time ago, Mr. Marquis denied to Carnegie the right to .present his new play. His recent acquiescence speaks highly for the Drama De­partment, which he believes, evi­dently, has enough talent and skill to cope with the difficulties the play presents. The scenes arc short; but the cast of characters, which includes eighty people, is so large it necessitates the assigning of a role to every member of the department.Costuming a cast so large will tax the ingenuity and creative skill of the department. Miss Elizabeth Schraeder, who makes her premiere debut as costumier for Carnegie, is devoting herself energetically and completely to the work.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT PLANNED FOR DINNER DANCEis the program for the week-end: I
Friday, October 26 11:00 a. m.—A 1 u m n i Federation Meeting in Trophy Room, Gymnasium.1:00 p. m.—Buffet Lunchcon in the Field House (Athletic Quar­ters), Dr. Baker’s Lunchcon for the Class of 1908 in his office.2:30 p. m.—Inspection of Build­ings and Grounds.3:30 p. m.—Open House by the Administration and Faculty.7:00 p. m.—Cabaret Dinner Dance at Webster Hall to midnight. 
Saturday, October 27 10:30 a. m.—Reunion Classes will placc in the floor of the Ad­ministration Building . bronze plates impressed with their class numerals.'12:00 m. —Class Reunions and Luncheons.1:00 p. m.—Football, Pitt and Car­negie Freshman game at the Stadium.2:00 p. m.—Football, Pitt and Car- , negic Varsity game at the Stadium.6:00 p. m.—Open House at all Fraternities.8:30 p. m.—Football Dance in the Union.
Sunday, October 28 At Home—All Fraternities.Talcs of the possibilities of the 1928 football team are arousing the greatest interest of the alumni. The urge to come back to see the biggest game of the season is be­ing answered by many alumni. As the day draws near still others arc hearing the irresistible call and arc packing the old week-end bag and heading for the nearest railroad 
station and the "Smoky City.”Five classes are scheduled to hold their reunions this year. The class of 1908 will hold its twenti­eth reunion; the class of 1913, its fifteenth; the class of 1918, its tenth; the class of 1923, its fifth; and the class of 1928 will hold its first reunion. In honor of the first class to hold its twentieth re­union, Dr. Baker has invited the members of the class of 1908, their wives and husbands, to be his gues'ts at a luncheon in the Ad­ministration Building on the first 
day of homecoming. It is hoped that all members of this class can be present and attend the lunch^ 
eon.Buffet luncheon for the other alumni will be served in the Field House. After the lunchcon the Alumni will have an opportunity to inspect the new training quar­ters, as well as the other buildings on the campus. Alumni who have not visited their Alma Mater for some time will find many changes and improvements on the campus.The crowning event of the first day of homecoming has _ been scheduled for Friday evening, at 7 o’clock. This will be the in­formal Cabaret Dinner banco for alumni and their guests. The com­mittee in charge has engaged the main dining room of Webster . Hall 
for the evening. The original "Collegiate Six” have been tuning up for some time and they are prepared -to make the alumni sit up and take -notice, entertaining with popular songs, both old and new. Other entertainment has been / planned, ; but the committee refuses to divulge details—they would hate to have to turn people away at the doors. The Collegiate Imps have been engaged for the evening and they will make things merry for those -who want to dance. Dinner will be served at 7 o’clock and the time for depar­ture will be left to the discretion of cach alumnus. "Red” Godden is general chairman and lie has promiscd> that this event will be the winning touchdown of the day
Connecticut Clan To Hold 
Meeting, Monday, Oct. 22S Coming Back for Homecoming October 20-27? IPlease send me______________tickets at $2.50 each
foi* the Cabaret Dinner Dance to be held at Webster 
Hall, October 26, at 7:00 P. M.
The committee on arrangements for the Cabaret Dinner Dance to be held in the Main Dining Room on the first floor of Webster Hall, just five minutes walk from the Campus, has practically completed its plans for the affair. This is really a bargain affair. The price is only $2.50 per plate and the party will start at seven o’clock and last until midnight. Dinner, dancing and entertainment is in­cluded in this price and you really can’t afford to stay at homo that niglit.Miss Shuman, chairman of the Entertainment Committee has told us something of her plans for your entertainment and here they arc: The Collegiate Six. composed of "Bob” Schmertz, “Ev" Hughes, "Ed” Taylor, "Larry” Rank, "Paul” Irwin, and "Al” Schoepf, will be there and entertain you with« their music. To those who know the Collegiate Six there will be no question as to. the pleasure their 
appcatance will give. Then it would, not be a Carnegie Tech af­fair with out a kiltie and his bag­pipe, and dancer, and Mr. Blackball is taking carc of that'part'of the program. "Obie” Newman has as­sured us that he will be here and sing a few songs as only “Obic” can do. “Lit” Coleman one of our 
own Margaret Morrison girls is going to dance and the Oriental Orchestra (Harold Culm, Ed Tay­lor, Paul Irwin and Ev Hughes) is returning for. this affair and will o'pen the evening with their in­dividual melodies, Carl Heinrich and his partner, Miss Madeline Ward, have very graciously offered to give us a few dancing numbers and there will be a “tap” dancer too. Wc liavd certainly told you quite enough to induce the most unsentimental of you to come back and enjoy the fun. There will be 
other features on the program but we aren’t telling all wc know but we can assure you that the eve­ning will be one of the best yet.
Dr. Hatfield To Give Three
(Continued from Page One) deep trench around the globe.” Members of the Pittsburgh Chap­ter of the American Socicty for Steel Treating arc expected to at­tend the lectures in a body.
The following letter has been 
icnt to the members of the Con- 
iccticut Clan:74 Orange St.‘ Hartford, Conn.October 10, 1928. 
iVI.v Dear Fellow Clansmen:Deep in the hearts of everyone 
-jf us, there dwells, dormant or spirited, the Love and Admiration of "Dear Old Carnegie.’* Miles and years apart from the Campus —don’t you ever long to gcti back again to your Alma Mater—to get together with some of the boys and girls and talk over old times and new? Isn't that life? Isn’t that living over* again the hapfry days you spent in “Dear Old Tech. ¦ 
Wc have here in Connecticut a wonderful little rcpreprescntation of Carnegie and why should we be living so far apart from cach other? Why can't we get together to talk things over and have a little fun, say every month or six
A little over a week and the great alumni event of the year will be here—the Annual Alumni Home­coming. All roads lead to the Schen­ley Park institution bringing loyal "Techites” back to Pittsburgh to sec the famous Carnegie Tech team meet their old rival from 
across the way.A full program has been plan­ned for this second annual home­coming, October 26 and 27. Each day will be filled with _ events which will give the ^lumni every opportunity to renew acquaintances with the "old gang.” Following
PROGRAMMy check for.is enclosed.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26 
11:00 A. M.—Alumni Federation Meeting in Trophy Room, 
Gymnasium.
1:00 P. M.—Buffet Luncheon in the Field House (Athletic 
Quarters).
2:30 P.M.—Inspection of Buildings and Grounds.
3 :30 P. M.—Open House by the Administration and Fac­
ulty.
7 :00 P. M.—Biggest Alumni Dinner ever held under one
tent. Dancing and Cabaret.
8 :30 P. M.—Campus Songs.
1:00 A.M.—Call it a day and rest up for the Football 
Game the next day.
Name.
Address.
Due to the size of this affair it 
will be impossible to make definite 
table reservations, but the enter­
tainment is being planned so that 
everyone will be able to enjoy it. 
Accommodations will be arranged 
for everyone and that is why wc are urging you to purchase your tickets in advance so that we may know how many to plan for. How­
ever, if you are not sure of getting back until the last minute come right along—ticket or no—and wc will see that you don’t miss any­thing.
SCHENLEY 
• HAND 
LAUNDRY
weeks? Let’s go—I’ll lead if you'll 
follow.
This year the Connecticut Clan is going to be the liveliest Clan in the whole Carnegie Chain and we’re starting off with a BANG on Monday night, October 22, at^ 8 o’clock sharp. This year, we’re going to get away from the usual, dull, 6:30 supper and meeting and replace same by a snappy little partv at 8 o'clock, a buffet lunch (about 50 cents) at 8:45 and at 9 o’clock, some sort of entertain­ment-—a speaker (a good, interest­ing one), a moving picture (leave that to me) and—you just wait and see. The party will never run over one dollar (I hope)—but why discuss the cost when-the fun and friendships we derive from it will be valucable to us all.The Lobster Shop on Asylum street, Hartford, (near the depot) at 8 o’clock, Octobcr 22, in a little room all to ourselves, we will gathpr together for the Glory of Carnegie and the Friendship of our Fellow Clansmen. There are many things to discuss' at the meeting, especially dues and scholarships and I would be most pleased to sec everybody on hand. We're go­ing, to have music ancl songs and last but not least, (I again ho^pc) a Moving Picture of Carnegie’s Famous Football Teams of 1926 and 1927 in action. What else would you like? Well you be on hand the twenty-second and you’ll get it. I want to hear from you before the twentieth if you’re com­ing or not. I hope you are.Yours in the Glory of Carnegie, William F. Gallagher, President.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27 
10:30 A. M.—Reunion Classes will place in the floor of the 
Central Building bronze plates, impressed with 
their class numerals.
12:00 M. —Class Reunions and Luncheons.
1:00 P.M.—Football—Pitt and Carnegie Tech Freshman 
Game at Stadium.
2:30 P.M.—Football—Pitt and Carnegie Tech (Varsity 
Garrfe).
6:00 P.M.—Open House at all Fraternities.
8 :30 P. M.—Football Dance in the Union.
W. Y. ART, Prop. -
418 S. CRAIG ST.
We Laundry AnythingUniversity Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near CraigCollege JewelrySeal StationeryPennantsC. M. STAUFTSUNDAY, OCTOBER 28 
All Fraternities.^Jhe largest selling 
qualitypencil 
in the wovld
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students SuppliesAt Home.
dozen points. Doyle made a placc kick for the additional point. In the final quarter Doyle clipped off a neat 60-yard run for a touch­down. The point was missed. This touchdown ended the scoring for the rest of the game with the score 19-9 in favor of the West Virginia boys.The- Carnegie men put up a grim fight throughout the game, but the opposition was.i ccrtainly tough. One of the big reasons for the West Virginia men marching through the Skibo line was the withdrawal of Walter Kozicki due to an injury. When a man of Kozicki’s ealiber is taken out of play it is a pretty difficult prob­lem to find a man to fill his shoes. Ziegler made some beautiful end runs Avhile Ewing and Pounccy hit the line for their share of the burden. Next Saturday the Plcbcs take on the W. and J. Frosh at Forbes Field in a preliminary to the Varsity W. and J. clash.The lineup follows:Tech Fresh—9 W. Va. Fresh—19
Armentrout —L.E---- JohnstownFletchcr ——_L.T--------- MartinShcckeles -----_L.G------1 WamslcyDucanis -------C. ________ SmithKozicki -------R.G----------- LewisStauffer —-----R.T.-------- GilchristMatia ------------R.E._______ HaneyZiegler —------Q. ____HaddockEwing----------L.H_______ BonarArcher ____R.H_______ DoylePounccy -----F.___ WaggonerScore by periods—Tech ___________  9 0 0 0—9W. Va. ..................  0 6 7 6-19
—and "Red” has never failed. Tickets for the .event (at $2.50 cach) are obtainable through Miss Andrews in the Alumni Officc. Fill in the blank on this page at oncc and let the 'Alumni Secretary know that you and your friends arc plan­ning to take in the "big evening.”Ou Saturday morning a new ceremony will be inaugurated by the ; reunioning glasses. These classes will lay bronze tablets bearing their class numerals in the lloor of the Administration Build­ing, between the offices of the Registrar and the cashier. The placc of honor in the ccntcr of the fioor will be given to the tablet of the charter class—the class of 1908. This is a new ceremony and hereafter cach year at homt- coming the reunioning classcs will add their tablets ,to those1 already in the floor.Of course the big event of Sat­urday is scheduled for 2 _ o’clock when the Pitt and Carnegie Tech teams start their annual tilt for city title. The Pitt-Carncgie Tech game is THE big game of the seasonfor both teams and cach team is out to win. There sli&uld. be football thrills aplenty for every one on this' afternoon. The rival­ry between the two schools and the desire to see the Carnegie Plaid fly high in history brings alumni back to Pittsburgh year after year, with cvcr-incrcasing en­thusiasm.With all these attractions await­ing them, every afunlni is urged to make a special effort to attend homeconiing this year. Join the annual "trek” back to the old fa­miliar territory and meet and min­
gle with friends of former days. This is probably the last Tartan you vfill receive before homecom­ing, so don’t forget to scnd> for your tickets for the Cabaret Dinner Dance and the football game eith­er to "Buddy” Ovcrcnd or to Miss Andrews in the Alumni Officc. DO It NOW!
Many Alumni Order Tickets
In Advance For^Pitt Game
The Alumni Homecoming event is approaching quickly, and many alumni have already obtained their tickets and will be back for .the Pitt-Tech game. They represent' every class since 1913.
Frosh Again Defeated
(Continued from Page 1)
lie did - not drive at him, as lie could have done very easily. The Mountaineers missed their try for point after touchdown. This end­ed the scoring in the first half. 'In the second half the boys from "them tha'r hills” trotted1 out the old steam roller and began to wear the Skibo Yearlings down. This soon resulted in Bonar crash­ing off-tackle for their second half
Special Notice Students
Let’s Renew Old Friendship
, Wc arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us. 
LATEST STYLES ALL SIZES
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
blackdegreesSuperlative in quality, the world-famous
Campani/For Better Service, See Us—We Use Factory Methods
Tech Shoe Repairing
420 S. CRAIG STREET 
SHOE SHINING HAT CLEANING
STRANDMANOR
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
WED.-THURS., OCT. 17-18WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17MARION DAVIES
in “The Cardboard Lovei
THURSDAY, OCTOBER IK
CHARLIE MURRAY
in “VAMPING VENUS”
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10CONRAD NAGEL
in “STATE STREET SADIE”
SATURDAY MATINEE ONLY
“THE ADVENTURER”
SATURDAY EVENING ONLY
JOHNNIE HINES
WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 17CHINATOWN CHARLIE’
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10
A Great Cast 
in “The House of Scandal”COLLEEN MOORE
in "LILAC TIME”
JOHNNIE HINES
in “Chinatown Charlie”
NOW SHOWING AT THE STANLEY—CI.AltA BOW IN “THE FLEETS IN'
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable and 
Standard Machines.Co-ecls Play the Game 
in Gimbels Sports Coats
Skrip, successor to 
ink, makes all pens 
write better, and 
the Lifetime pen 
vrite best.See our Big Supply and get 
special student rates.
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
Fur-Trimmed Tweeds, Chinchillas, and 
Reversible Leather Coats Will Score 
Touchdowns in the Game of Style
Swagger leather coats lined with tweed. . . 
they may be worn either side out . . . trig 
chinchillas, warm as your enthusiasm as you 
cheer Skibo to victory over the Presidents 
next Saturday . . . and the “ever-faithful” 
tweeds that you'll be proud to wear on the 
campus long after football season is over and 
attending class becomes the vogue.
;; '¡V 7TV ; : :: r.
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
“Your Home Bank”
Identify the Lifetime* 
pen by this 
white dot
Leather Coats.. .$27.50 and $35,00 
Chinchilla Coats, $25.00 and $35.00 
Fur Trimmed Tweeds...........$39.50First everywhere
A recent questionnaire gives Lifetime0 pens an un­
questioned first in forty-one per cent of America’s 
leading schools—leaving fifty-nine per cent to 
the rest of the pen makers. Here are the reasons: 
real economy through the lifetime guarantee of 
faultless service; surpassing beauty, and a nib 
¦which at once responds to lightest touch yet is 
capable of making three clear carbons of notes, 
letters and confidential papers. With the Titan 
pencil it makes the college equipment of efficiency. 
"Lifetime" pen, $8.75 Lady "Lifetime", $7.50, Other| lower
"Lifetime" Titan oversize pencil to match, $4.25 
At better stoves everywhere
Gimbels—Third Floor.
STATEMENT OCTOBER 3RD, 1928
Cash on Hand and in Banks.Loan and Discounts................Bonds and Securities............Other Assets ______________
LIABILITIES
Capital _______Surplus ........Deposits .........Other LiabilitiesSHEAFFER’SV/ PENS* PENCILS - SKRIPSTUDENT ACCOUNTS WELCOME
Fifth and Oakland Pittsburgh
W. A. SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON, IOWA
________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAR______________________________________- ___________'__ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 192
ALUMNI NEWS

---------------------------------------------------

rUESDÄY, OCTOBER 16, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTSübe Carnegie flMaiò
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS
heater Movie Passes
Have Been Received
istribution Scheduled For Last Week Delayed.
The passes entitling night stu- Icri'ts to a. discount on tickets pur­chased for the Stanlcy-Clark-Davis .licaters were not received in time for distribution as outlined.The tickets have since jjeen re­ceived and will be ready for dis­tribution next week. The procedure 
fi obtain them will be the same, namely: Jn the Industries Build­ing, Room 12, Wednesday evening, between 7 and 7:30 p. m.Incidentally, after seeing one of these tickets it docs not seem that they will be of much use to those of vis who must work during the daytime; They are not applicable after 6 p. m. on week days and not at all on Holidays and Saturdays.
Student Take Notice
Spcc'mì Unteti For You Atdegr dsSupla
Cleaning, Pressing and Tailoring 
"COMB IN AND SEE STEIN” 
Mayflower 7795 325 S. Craig St.
WE CALL AND DELIVEll
Let’s Go To
TECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS 
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
j Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student
NIGHT REGISTRATION FIGURES
EXCEED THOSE OF LAST YEAR
Are You Getting Your
Well, Gang, /Just got back from seeing the Frosh game and part of the Thiel game. The first was not so good and that not only means the score but the playing seemed rather ragged and spotty Of course, due allowance must be made for them and wc all hopethat by this time next year some of them will have won their spurs and shown their mettle.
Now as regards the Varsity.Boy, they look fine, and betweenyou and me and the gate post it is going to take some team to beat them. They handle them­selves every bit as well as the team of two years ago. Nextweek, of course, is when they run into their first real opposition and jinx. It seems that wc can beat every other team but W. and J. If prospects mean anything, _ we certainly should break this jinx this year, so let’s back them up 100 per cent.
Wonder what happened to those who were correspondents on the Skibo staff last year. Of course, George Elvin was the only one that I had the pleasure of meet­ing and lie certainly was a fine boy. Haven't seen him so far this year, but hope he is back. Wonder how Bee made out with her club. Who knows?Last year there was considerable talk about a ' waiting .room at Morcwood ai'cnue entrance. So far not a word has been mentioned and am afraid some one forgot to remember. Honest and truly, it’s a shame to expect anyone to stand out in the cold waiting for one oi these Pittsburgh Railways cars. If they don’t get some .sort of a shelter house down there a lot of night and day students, too, are going to be frozen to death. Hope
SECOND CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 
announces a
FREE LECTURE ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
By
ROBERT STANLEY ROSS, C. S., of New York City
Member of The Jlonrd of Leeturesliip of The Mother Church,
The First Churrh of Clirist, Scientist, in Boston, Mnssl
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, OCTOBER 21st, 1928
at 3:15
GRAND THEATRE - FIFTH AVENUE 
The Public is Cordially Invited
Peace of Mind
Comes to those who have wisely placed their valuables, 
and important papers in a modern safe deposit vault.
Your Oakland Banlc affords you the opportunity to enjoy 
tWs valuable and satisfying possession through the rental 
of a box in their Burglar and Fire Proof vault.
There1, are sizes, to meet your every requirement. Right 
now is a dangerous time to leave your valuables unpro­
tected- the cSïst is trifling. DO NOT DFXAY.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Mevran Crosses Forbes Street
Have you ever 
asking your
Any man who wears John 
Wards will tell tlie same 
story.
The leathers in John 
Wards are choicer, wear 
better. The fit and work­
manship are more expert. 
They have more style ap­
peal to men of the better
tried 
friends ?
iiveivs .5koesIMCOaPORATBD -
StoresinNewYork 'Brooklyn 
Newark and Philadelphia On display at 
J. R. Scheib & Bros
this question will be answered a; quickly as flic one about the dances was.Arc you all ready for what’s coming. VVhat? Do vou mean to say you don't know. Well, it is the elections that arc to be held in the near future. Anyone out­side the ^school would think they charged admission to these affairs the way most of the students shy away from them. Now these elec­tions are held for your benefit and the least any of us can do is to attend them. Remember, the ac­tivities of the night school has branched out considerably and con­sequently good men are needed cach year to sec that they arc con­tinued.How many of you noticed in this paper early this Fall that the Carnegie games are to be played at the Pitt Stadium commencing next year. Here is another move in the right direction, and although Pitt is our rival one Saturday of cach year, it goes to show that it is only a friendly rivalry and that the balance of the time wc arc all good friends. After all, there is not sufficient athletic pa­tronage to keep up two big stadi­ums. So now both schools have something in common and let’s hope there will never be anything else than a good spirit between both institutions.Wonder if a plea for more street cars would be heard by the Rail­ways Company. It seems as though they have about a half dozen cars for nearly four thousand students. And if you don’t get a car before seven in the• evenings, you may as well turn around and go home as wait for the next! one. How about it, Ed.Can you imagine it. Ran into a class in which there arc no final exams. Of coursc, you have' a weekly test, but that is nothing in comparison to a two or three hour test twice a year. Incidentally, the Prof. went to night school him­self, so he understands. Wish they 
all did that.—IC.
Each year the number of students enrolled has shown an increase over the preceding ones, and from present indications , this year will be no exception. For th- first three nights of registration, the figures sub­mitted by the Registrar’s Officb show that 102 more students were enrolled than over the same period for last year. Although it will be some time before final figures can be obtained bccause of the usual number of late entrants, it is not amiss to state that last year's figures will be exceeded.The comparative registration figures for the past five (5) years sub­mitted by Mr. Alan Bright, Registrar, are as follows:
cn”—Janet Gaynor, Charles Far- - roll and Director Frank Borzagc.Tartan Each Issue? ,''F?ur Sons." VOL production, i<the feature Monday and Tuesday at the Schenley. The theme ofToo Much Work At Once In Com piling Mailing List Cause Of Delay.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Office of the Registrar COMPARATIVE REGISTRATION—NIGHT SCHOOL
Wednesday Thursday 1924-25 ’
Engineering ----Industries -------Fine Arts ____
Oct. 1 —.................. 126
IIIZIIIIIIZZIZ ~84
THE DAVIS
For the headline attraction in the Kcith-Albee vaudeville program at the Davis the week beginning October 15. l.hn Stanley Company have booked' Mariä Valenta, Eu­rope’s variety star, making her first 
American tour. The photoplay feature., will b.c a comcdy-drania, ‘•Heart , In Heart," featuring Mary Astpr,. 'l^loyd ‘.Hughes and Louise 
Fazenda.............-...........One of the comedy spots on the program will be Harry Burns, famous Italian comcdian, in a humorous, sketch called1 M Think. You Tough." ."A Few Moments of Song. Dance, and Color” will be presented by Hayes, Marsh and Fay, and there will be- three other stage 1 attractions, completing the vatidc- j 
villc program.
Tota731
1925-26Sept. 30Engineering ----------------------------- 153Industries ____________________ 484Fine Arts —’--------------------------- 83.
Oct. 2 128 399 90
617
Oct. i 140 464 
101
Total-720
1926-27Sept. 29Engineering ----------------------------- 131Industries -------------------------584Fine 'Arts ------------------------------— 89
Total-804
1927-28Engineering ----------------------------- 199Industries -------------------------------- 551Fine Arts ----------------------------- 78
Total -----------------_------------- 828
1928-29
Engineering —------------------------ 326Industries'------------------------------- 623Fine Arts -..........-........................ 99
Total104S
705
Sept. 30 195 636 94
925
203616128
234565149
9-18
Friday
Oct. 3 85 353 106
544
Oct. 2 126 470 
110
706
Oct. 1 203 540 
102
845
244597129
189521141
851
Fotal
3391273280
4191418294
5291760285
6461764335
Every Regular registered Night Student is entitled to receive a weekly copy through the mail of The Tartan. If you arc not get­ting"" your copy after this issue let us know, and the question will be looked into.Due to the large registration the issue of October 9 has been de­layed in mailing which was caused by an incomplete mailing list. How* ever, this issue is going out to every Night Student who was reg­istered up to Monday night, Oc­tober 8.
this picture is faith—the faith of the mother in humanitv. In spito of all the troubles that beset the old lady, her confidence remains unbroken.
THE SCHENLEY
The cast supporting Colleen Moore in the First National special "Lilac Time,” which opened at the Schenley Monday and is now in its third and last day, includes among many others, Gary Cooper, Burr McIntosh, George Cooper, Clevc Moore, Kathryn McGuire, Eugenie Besscrer, Emile Chautard, Jack Stone and Edward Dillon.“Street Angel,” the William Fox screen version of the play by Monckton Hoffe, will be the fea­ture at the. Schenley Theater, on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, October 25, 26, 27. This pict'urc again brings together the trium­virate responsible for the success­ful screen translation of the John Golden stage play, “Seventh Heav-
7491709389
2847 j
Night Arts Election To
Be Held October 22
Only Art Students Will Be Ad­
mitted.
Monday night, October 22, will be the election night for Officers of Night College of Fine Arts. Thic election will be held in the Freshman. Drafting Room on the third floor of the ARTS Building and will be called for 10 p. m. Only Regular Registered Night Arts Students will be admitted upon 'presentation, of Yellow Regis­tration Cards. V Last year considerable interfer­ence was experienced from an out­side group and will not be tolerat­ed’ this year. Wc don’t interfere with their College activities, and in turn expect our rights to be re­spected. Therefore, if you arc not a Night Student, stay away, be­cause ypu will not be admitted.—L. D. S. P.
THE GRANDIn order to accommodate the vast crowds that were unable to obtain admission to the Stanley to see A1 Jolson’s great Vitaphonc special, “The . Singing Fool,” the • Stanley Company has arranged to move it to their Fifth avenue the­ater, the Grand, beginning Mon­day, October 15.Heading the star’s supporting cast are two leading ladies in the persons of Betty Bronson and 
Josephine Dunn.The newly wired Grand makes it possible to hear all the big Jol- son songs introduced into the ac­tion of the picture, and the voices of. the players are also heard in the dialogue which tells the story.Screen novelties and News Reels Will be.shown following the feature picture.
Leaves Tobacco 
Tin as All-time 
Calling Card
Calgary, Alta., March 4, 1928Larus & Bro. Co.,Richmond, Va.U. S. A.Gentlemen:While in Banff, Alberta, in 1909, I climbed Tunnel! Mountain. On top of this mountain there is a cairn of stones where tourists leave their cards "with remarks about the scenery, etc. Not; having a card with me, I left.atin of Edgeworth Sliced, scribbled my name and address on a piece of paper, and said, "Have a fill on me.”I have kept up a haphazard corre­spondence with one of three who wrote me thanking me for the Pipeful of Edgeworth. What makes me write you is that today from Australia I received two slices of Edgeworth with the words, “Have a fill on me,” so you see Edgeworth keeps friends friendly.
Yours sincerely,P. B. JohnstoneEdgeworth
Extra High Grade
ativnqy di,hwwi
THE STANLEY
More than 300. extra players ap­pear in Clara Bow’s new starring picturc, “The Fleet’s In,” the fea-- ture attraction at the Stanley The­ater t,jiis week.Miss Bow gives one of her 
strongest characterizations in this picture, according to advance re­ports. James Hall and Jackie Oakie have the featured support­ing roles, with a capable cast sur- loundjing them.A stage attraction, consisting of 
stars and principal •players from the New York revues, will be pre­sented, following “The Fleet’s In.” It is said to be one of the most colorful and brilliant that has ever been presented on the Stanley stage.
Introduction by a friend is usually the safest way to make new acquaintances. For about fifteen years this paper has in­troduced its students to a de­pendable "Service Station” for Invitations, Programs, Gifts. Pens, Pen Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
9th Year of Schenley Club 
Dances
You Are Invited to Our
Pitt-Tech
Informal
Football Dance
Hotel Schenley Ball 
Room
8:30 to Midnight
Saturday October 27th
“Bob” McGowan and His 
Nine-Piece Orchestra
Advancc Sale of Student Tickcts 
$2.00 Per Couple at Woodlawn 
Pharmacy, Corner Woodlawn and 
Forbes Street.
Door Price »$2.50 Per Couple.
al the SchenJey nnd Make it i 
Pcrfcct Dny”
DANCINGAt JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beninnei'3 Mondny nnd l'Vidny Eve­nings. Advanced, Thuradny nnd Satur­
day Evenings. Private lcs*ons by ap­
pointment. Mayflower 7891
WHIRLWIND PLAY ON A FAMOUS ENGLISH FIELD
grso-SpfarS- sd adsme
Modern polo was developed in ike English army, 
where loyalty lo the game's high, principles seems 
a part of every player. It is natural that, jor gen­
erations, these exacting sportsmen have shown a. 
preference for the one traditionally excellent briar 
pipe—the BBB OWN MAKE.
GL far outposts of the Empire and at home, polo has appealed 
to dashing spirits as the great sporting partnership befween 
man and his friend, the horse. And a bond between these 
most exacting sportsmen and their briar pipes has caused 
the BBB Own Make to be carried into every corner of the 
earth.
Generations of pipe smokers are familiar with the high 
standards of BBB manufacture. Excellent smoking quality, 
unusual coolness, traditional mellowness and beauty from 
the choicest briar roots—these are the characteristics for 
years associated with BBB Own Make pipes.
Highly polished or sandblasted ripple finish, standard and 
unusual shapes—every pipe is marked with a red diamond 
on the stem. Five dollars th<a pipe. Wm. Demufch & Co., 
New York and London. Established 1862.
OWN
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
CRAIG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
Such popularity must 
be deservedT
The Important Half
— of dressing
Smart Alligator coats, in a variety of models and colors, aro recognized as the important half of smart attire. Iu line, materials and waterproof protection genuine Alligators are de­cidedly superior. You’ll find they fill every need for all-wcatlicr wear. Alligators aro sold only at the bcBt stores and retail from $7.50 to $25.00. See the new Alligator Aviation model at $10.00. The Alligator Com­pany, St. Lquis, Mo.
ALLIGATORTRADE-MARK REG. U. G. PAT. OFF.
Book Store
For Sale at
Administration BIdg.
ttesi.
Down deep in the Kongo the native sons 
believe that anybody who has an explorer for 
dinner will absorb all the brains, courage 
and other success-assuring virtues of the unfor­
tunate victim.
Wewishwecouldsaythesame of Chesterfields 
—that all their popularity is conferred upon 
whosoever smokes them. Frankly, however, 
this is not invariably true, Several Chesterfield
smokers have recently been discovered who 
are not ambassadors, steel kings, or even bank 
presidents.
But—since Chesterfields are so satisfying, mild 
and different—we’ll all of us continue to enjoy 
them for these sound smoke-virtues alone.
Popularity? Six million smokers arc enjoying 
’em today. Such popularity must be deserved 
Make it six million and one?
.XI,NI4VPIAR
MILD enough, for anyb o dy . . and yet. , THEY S ATIS F\
LIGGETT & MYEJLS TOBACCO CO.

---------------------------------------------------

Duofold Jr. >35yLadyDuofold £5
TECH BAKERY
ANDCONFECTIONERY
323 SO. CRAIG STREET 
Wholesale and Retail 
Fruit and Groceries
Use Parker Duo fold Ink nnd Parker Duo­fold Leads in pena or pencils of any make lo ¿et the beat resulta
W. & J. 
NIGHT
at
The Washington Arms
Washington Blvd.
SAT., OCT. 20,1928
“Ws a Big Game So 
Make it a Big Night”
DANCING
Wed, - Fri. - Sat.
West — Management — Pearson (“State” Boys)
Smartest Writer 
Smartest Looker!
Geo. S. Parker Offers Also, 
Pressurclcss Touch, Non-Breakable Barrel, and a 
* Guarantee Forever Against All Defects
Never before have modern style and effi­
ciency been so combined in a fountain pen.
36 years’ experience, 47 improvements, 32 
pen patents, five modern, flashing colors are 
represented in this one pen.
Barrels of Parker Permanite are 28% 
lighter than rubber, yet non-brealcable.
Through Pressureless Touch, a Duofold 
eliminates all effort. The feather-light weight 
of the pen itself starts and keeps it writing.
No pressure from the fingers—no strain—no 
fatigue.
On each barrel find and read the imprint,
“Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD.” That is the 
only way to be sure you have the genuine.%In a special test in 55 colleges the Parker 
was voted the favorite pen. You’ll agree when 
you’ve tried the modern Duofold. Do it now, 
at a near pen counter.
Parker Duofold Pencils in colors to match 
pens,-$3, $3.50 and $4.
*To prove Parker Duofold is a pen of life- i 
long perfection, we offer to make good any 
defect provided complete pen is sent by the 
owner direct to the factory wit^h 10c for re. 
turn postage and insurance.
Every Affair
degresSreupla tirpvpn 
The mark of distinc­
tion is there when we 
cater the affair.
Our aim is to impress 
guests as well as the 
hostess with the charm 
of our 'service, and we 
succeed.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions. 
Weddings a Specialty
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16. H
TIMKEN NN ewApoint
You will also find the foremost factor in fighting 
friction to be Timken Bearings with their full thrust- 
radial capacity and anti-friction properties, their 
Timken-made electric steel, Timken tapered con­
struction and Timken ^Jheleargs tgeinrq uyppcw
Installed at the hard service points in motor vehicles 
and any type of industrial machinery, it becomes 
graphically apparent that Timken Bearings are bring­
ing Industry out of the valley of waste and up into 
the higher plane of profit.
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING CO., CANTON, OHIO
All Makes oi: Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
MEN’S TAILOR
335 Fifth Avenue
60G State Theater llldg.
Carnegie Represented
(Continued from Page One)
tion. He spoke on "Education and 
Industry.”Carnegie Institute of Technology was not only represented by Dr. Baker and Professor Gustafson but by many alumni and fathers of sons now attending Carnegie. Sev­eral men present spoke to the head of the Printing Department concerning their sons who are contemplating coming to this 
school.George 1C. Hebb, Chairman of the Educational Committee, has promised a donation of new U. T. A. books from the Unit Library for Printers amounting to the sum of $300, which the Printing De­partment will receive. The Dexter Folder Co. has promised the loan of a Pile Suction Feeder for the new Meihle No. 3 press.
New Appointment
(Continued from Page 1)
the individual and group, pictures will be announced, later. Seniors and the heads of the different or­ganizations and fraternities are asked to co-operate in having every­one of their groups together at the 
time stated.A special attempt has been made this year to get the Thistle out by May 1.To enable the staff to do this it will be necessary to have the ma­jority of the subscriptions in before February 20. The discount of 50 cents on the subscription price, if paid before that date, should also encourage early subscriptions. The subscription price is $4.50, of which $2 is paid at the' time of subscrib­ing and the balance on delivery. After February 20 the price will be raised to $5, necessitated by an agreement with the publisher.
While there is no standard weight for golf clubs, modern clubs arc distinctly lighter than those in use 10 or 15 years ago:
Pittsburgh Clergymen 
Meet At Carnegie Tech
In response to an invitation to discuss a new plan on correlating student participation in church ac­tivities, 18 Pittsburgh clergymen met at a dinner at Carnegie last Tuesday night, Octobcr 9, as the guests of President Thomas S. Baker. The plan,’ which was.; adopted at a similar meeting of clergymen and Carnegie ' Te&h v of­ficials. last Spring, is designedj to bring about a greater degree! of participation of Carnegie students in the activities of churches in the vicinity of the institution.A report of the progress of the. plan since its inauguration was presented by Professor Samuel I. Dibble, chairman of the Commit­tee of Management of* the Car­negie Branch of the K. M. C. A. ; and Rollin V. Davis, executive sec­retary of the Y. M. C. A. Accord­ing to the report denominational lists of all Carnegie students have been -.prepared by the Y. M. C. A. and distributed to the churches, comriiittees of faculty members and students have been appointed in several of the churches and plans for receptions to students by various churches have been held or are being planned. A. W. Tar- bell,. dean of men, reported on Freshman Week in connection with the ‘Efforts of Carnegie’s Adminis­tration to introduce out-of-town students to the churches- of their respective denominations'.Tile clergymen present on Tues­day riight were: Dr. Hugh T. Kerr, Shatfyside Presbyterian Church; Dr. Carl Wallace Petty, First Bap­tist ¿Church; Dr. Albert E. Day, Chriftt Methodist Episcopal Church; Rev. Ii. H. Forsythe, Sixth Presr byterian Church; Rev. T. R. Cour- tice, Oakland Methodist Episcopal Church; “Rev. K. A. Stein, Grace Reformed Church; Dr. S. H. Gol- denion, Rodcf Shalom Congrega­tion; Dr. W. L. Mason, First Uni­tarian Church; Rev. A. R. Robin­son,* Six til United Presbyterian Church; Dr. W. M. Woodfin, Third United Presbyterian Church; Bishop H. Welch, Methodist Bishop of the Pittsburgh Diocese; Rev. H. B. Edwards, • Episcopal Church of the Ascension; Rev. W. A. Amos, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church; Rev. R. N. Meade, Church of the Redeemer; Dr. W; Frank Reber, East Liberty Church; Dr. W. W. Duncan, Emory Metfliodist Episcopal Church; Dr. W. J. Reid, First United Presby­terian Church; Rev. C. Sandcrbach, St. Paul’s Cathedral. John E. Manly, general secretary . of the Pittsburgh Y. M. C. A., was among 
the guests.
Point System Head Will 
Locate In Dean’s Office
Founder’s Day Observation f" 
Scheduled For October 18 IMusic Notes
¦j Night Hawks to Play at
Andrew W. Mellon to Deliver 
Principal Address; Music Hall 
Scene ot Program
The annual celebration of Found­er's Day at the Carnegie Institute will be held on Thursday after­noon, Octobcr 18, at 3 o'clock, in the Carnegie Music Hall. Andrew W. Mellon, Secretary of the United Slates Treasury, will deliver the principal address. It seems alto­gether fitting and fortunate that the speaker of the Founder’s Day program should be a man nation­ally recognized as leader, and also native of Pittsburgh, interested and influential in the Institute.
Dr. Charles Heinroth, who is the organist and Director of Music at the Carnegie Institute, will play the overture to “Rosamond,” 'ey Franz Schubert. Dr. Heinroth has made this selection in honor of the centenary of the composer. .-. I 
During the afternoon there will be several other musical numbers, which have not yet been chosen, to be sung by a quartet of well- known Pittsburgh singers.
Samuel Harden Church, Presi­dent of the Institute, will announce the awards of prizes to be given for the best pictures in the Inter­national Exhibition of Paintings, which is to be thrown open to :the public on Thursday afternoon, at the’conclusion of the exercises.- The completion of the program to its fullest details has been retarded by unexpected delays. However,, the most important matters have 
been arranged.
Wc arc all proud To be associated with so fine an Institution, and many of us arc interested- enough to enjoy the program were the Music Hall large enough to seat all who wish to attend. >
NAMES OF M. M. FRESHMEN 
ADVISORS WILL BE POSTED
Florence Bright as’; chairman of the Point System Committee will take possession of the new' desk which is now stationed with the desks of Miss Leach ’ and Miss Byrd in the office of Miss Green, dean of women. All new nominees for offices must . be turned in to the Points System Committee at this desk for approval before the dents do not know •the point sys­tem which regulates the number and quality of extra curricula of­fices permitted to be held by cach student. By having a special place- where the new nominees may be approved by referring to the rec­ord of officc holders, there will be no confusion later by having officers clected who arc already ineligible by the system.The Y. W. C. A. under President Jean Folmar will make its head­quarters at the same desk with the Activities Point System Commit­tee. From this center most of the Y. W. C. A. Drive work, which begins on Tuesday, will be carried on by Ann, McKee, chairman of the drive.
In order to aid new students in the solution of aiiy problems which may confront them the Margaret Morrison Freshman Class, is di­vided into several groups,' each of which is under the guidance of a teacher who acts as faculty ad­visor »to the group in',her charge. The student is urged to consult her advisor for any help or infor­mation she may 1 need during her first year, concerning her courses. She must go to the advisor to re­ceive her tri-semester grades.Each student should make it_ a point to become acquainted with her own advisor. The list of ad­visors and the numbers of the rooms where they may be found will be posted on the ’ bulletin board soon.
OPERATING DAY AMO NIGHT
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS and¿ßSm ILLUSTRATORS-,0 -ft
POST-SUN Buildinq
PITTSBURGH
Phones :GRant 1654- or 1655
Tea for Freshmen
(Continued from Pae-c One)
may be taken lo one’s home Tor lunches and dinners, 'while dorm girls may be taken lo the different dormitories.II:— PERIOD OF SILENCE:A. Rushing season shall be ter­minated by a “silent period”, of three days,. beginning at midnight on Sunday evening of the last week of rushing and ending at 4:30 o’clock on Wednesday after­noon. Bids must be in the office of the Dean of Women by 1:30 o’clock on Monday afternoon of the silence period, and .the answers of the rusliee ready for the sorori­ties Wednesday of the same week at 4:30 p. m. (Open rushing shall continue from then on, with no events such as teas, etc.)B. During the silence period there shall be no communication (by noLe, word, telephone or in any • way which might result in suspicion of the involved parties) between freshmen ’(or first year students) and sorority girls. Sor­ority girls in this sense include pledges.C. During the period of silence the prospective pledges are advised to consult „ with the faculty ad­visors .of cach sorority.III.—A. A girl must be registered in due form as a regular day student in a degree course before pledged 
lo any sorority.B. A student must have com­pleted satisfactorily, one semester of the regular school year andmust be in good. standing as inter­preted by the Institute Eligibility Rules in order to. be a candidate for initiation into any sorority.C. In the eveijt of a pledge be­ing dropped by, or withdrawing from, a sorority, she may not be pledged by another in {die samecollege year.IV.—A. Any violation of these rules shall be considered sufficientgrounds for action by the Council against the offending member.Charges of any such violation or of any other offense may be pre­ferred by any member or members of the Council.
By Sara E. Wonders Student Rates for This Year’s Concert Season
For student rates for Orchestra Concerts or for May Bceglc Con­certs, an identification card should be obtained from Miss Lawton in the Music Officc before Octobcr 17. These offers arc open to all 
Carnegie students.
As many tickets as arc ordered through the Music Office will be reserved at Schrocdcr’s Piano Store to be called for on Saturday, Oc­tober 20. Please present your iden­tification card with your money on that day only at Schroeder’s Piano Co. Ticket Office, S20 Liberty ave­nue.
Friday evening Symphony Or­chestra Concerts: First balcony,regular $12 locations, $5; second balcony, regular $7.50 locations, $4.Six Matinee Concerts: First bal­cony,- regular $6.50 locations, $3.50.May Beeglc Concerts — Second balcony regular $8 seats, $5.Bortz Concerts: Kenneth Owens and Harry Cohen of the Music De­partment have charge of the sales for the Bortz Concerts. First floor, regular $12 locations, $9; first floor, regular $10 locations, $7; first bal­cony, $5; second balcony, $3.Art Society Concerts.: Stuikntswho wish Art .Society tickets for the Art. Society Goncerts ($3 and $4 for second balcony scats) should get them at once at Schroedcr’s Piano Co. Tickct Office, down­town.A limited number of memberships to the Pittsburgh Symphony So­ciety arc still available. It will not be possible to secure admission to individual concerts without becom­ing a member for the entire sea­son. Seats arc allotted in the or­der of enrollment.Membership Dues: Associate,Class A, $15; Associate, Class B, $10; Associate, Class C, $5; Active, $25 or more; Contributing, $100 or more.The Society will give four con­certs during- the coming season and each member will: be allotted two scats for each concert free of charge. Please make checks pay­able to George E. Bciison, Treas­urer.* * *
Vladimir Horowitz, sensationalpianist, will open the concert sea­son of the Major Artist Scries at the Y. M. & W. H. A., on Belle- field avenue, October 16.* * *
Under tltc new management of May Beeglc, the Art Society will begin its fifty-sixth season next Friday night, October 19, with a concert at Carnegie Music Hall by Kathryn Mcislc, Chicago Grand Opera contralto, and lfor Thomas, voung Welsh tenor.* * *
One of the most pleasing musical events of the season will be the conccrt to be giveni by Mmc. Lou­ise Homer, Pittsburgh’s favorite contralto, and her two Louise Homcr-Sllre's,' soprano Kathryn Homer, pianist,event will mark the opening o May Bccgle Concerts at Mosque oii Wednesday evening tobcr 24.* * *
Harold Bauer and Ossip Gabrilo- witsch will present the following program for two piaiios on Octo­ber 25:* * *
The Pittsburgh Symphony So­ciety opens its conccrt season Sun­day, October 28, 1928. Miss,Cyrcna Van Gordon will be the guest solo­ist, and Eugene Goossens will con­duct. The program will open with the Egmont Ovcrtrue, followed, by a solo by Miss Van Gordon. The symphony to be played will beDvorak’s New World Symphony, which will be followed by another solo by Miss Van Gordon. Com­pleting the program will be De Bussey’s Afternoon of a Faun and Vencsco’s Roumanian Rhapsody.* * *
Josephine . McGrail’s concert in Parkersburg, West Virginia, on Oc­tober 3, has started in a measure her: vocal success. The following criticisms of her program appeared in the Parkersburg papers:
THE MANOR urday evening where the comcdi
n , If he hadn't fallen in love with - sirring in hi* .latest First NUlee Club Dance rrtday a grand opera • singer, Andres dcfonal picture, Uunatown Utarln
---------- ¡begurola. -who has a promincnt_ ^ _j__i__irole in Marion Davis’ “The Card­board Lover,” probably would be a Spanish grandee, the Count of Alza, with ancestral domains in Spain.
The Plaid Night Hawks have 
been secured to furnish the music 
at the Glee Club Dance in the 
Union on Friday night, Octobcr 19.
The Night Hawks made their first j De Segurola, who play
appearance on the campus at Gen­
eral Assembly last Tuesday. Th<fy have been organized since last 
Spring, playing a successful Sum­
mer in and about tlie city, under 
the direction of Roy F. Dietz. The assessment for the dance will be $1.50.
At the last rehearsal ^of the Glee Club there were 75 men present. About 40 of these were new men, and among them - many splendid voices Vere found. The 
old men include many of the best je’rs of last year’s club. Mr. Gaul has begun his appearances at the rehearsals and is very enthus­iastic over the prospects. '
Paul Brautigam will assist in the directing, taking charge of the club at all public appearances. Although not a senior, Mr. Brautigam wasappointed to his position on thestrength of his interest in thework of tlie club for the past two years.- He was soloist on every program presented last year. Hes a member' of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity, and a pledge of . the Phi Mu Alpha ‘Smfonia, tlie musi­
cal.’ honorary.
land, Roumania, Russia and Spain. About forty of the 120 speakers listed will be Americans.
Of the. Coal Conference speakers, I a number have already arrived^ in | this country. Professor Dr. Karl Glinz stopped in. Pittsburgh Sep­tember 26 and 27 on. a tour of.the United States which will take, him to California before, the Conference. Dr. Glinz :is a profess&r at the Technischc Hochschulc of Berlin and will read a paper entitled “Coal Cleaning Problems, of Today” at the Conference.
Another of the German speakers who has already reached this coun­try is Professor Ernst Tcrrcs, the Rector of the Technischc Hocli- schule Braunschweig, who arrived in Pittsburgh September 27 and re­mained here until October } trans­lating his paper, .“A Study of the Total Expenditure of Heat in the Coking . Process,” into English. Professor Terres has not studied English , for twenty-four years but has niade considerable progress during his stay and J expects to be able to read his paper in English.
opera singer in the picture, which will play at the Manor Theater on Wednesday, has lead one Ot the most colorful careers of any man in pictures and has sung before every crowned head of Europe.
The cast includes Nils Asthcr, Tcnen Holtz, Jetta Goudal and Pcpi Lcdcrer.Charlie Murray’s latest comedy Will appear at the . Manor Thurs­day. Conrad Nagel in Street Sadie” on Friday, anti McCoy in “The Adventurer,” on Saturday.If you want to that you’ll shake t your clothes and ' tremble anxiety at the thrilling . stunts Johnny Hines is now performing, 
hurry to the Manor .Theater Sat-
A Course inHandling Money
The formation of a bank­ing connection early in. life, is an indispensable part bf your éducation.
e Athlete’s 
Friend
uT’S strenuous business 
for the athlete to keep up 
with his work and at the 
same time get the sleep 
the coaches demand. 
Many have discovered a 
way to do it. They use a 
Remington Portable for 
all their writing. It helps 
them get better marks 
because of the neatness 
and legibility of the type- 
Easy Payments.
written reports; and the 
great saving of time as 
compared with the drudg­
ery of writing by hand is 
a welcome relief. 
Remington Portable is the 
smallest, lightest, most 
compact and most depend­
able portable with standard 
keyboard. Weighs only 8Mi pounds, net. Carrying 
case only 4 inches high.
Remington
Portable
Cnrivciric Inali title nf Toclinoloßj-
Administration Hide. . ;|
Tvrminclnn Itami Unitine*!« Servier, ïnr., 
ItosBciucr Bld*., 102 Sixth Street, PlIUlnirpli, Pu
On the roof of a New York building will be built a 36-hole golf course soon, the first of its kind in America.
Prof. Hofmann to Speak
(Continued from Page One)
of a delegation of about twenty German scientists coniing to_ the November conference to participate in the discussion of recent dis­coveries in the utilization of bitu­minous coal. Other major topics listed include the liquefaction_ of coal, low temperature distillation, high temperature distillation, coal tar products, power, smokeless fuel, complete gasification of coal, hydro­genation, pulverized fuel and its new applications, fixation of ni­trogen, and coal washing.Besides the Germans, representa­tive scientists and engineers are expected from eighteen different nations including England, France, Italy, Austria, Belgium, Chile, Cuba, Czecho-Slovakia, Denmark, Canada, Japan, Jugo-Slavia, Norway, Po-T
HE moment you put theoretical knowledge into 
practice you will find that the factor of friction is 
something all Industry has to fight.
TO4N CPNN Typewriter .OEG SUFE
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 8320
Neelley Co-Author of
Analytical Geometry
Dr. J. H. Neelley, associate pro- j fessor of mathematics at Carnegie, 
is one of the co-;uithors of “New Analytical Geometry,” a text book on mathematics published by Ginn and Company of New York, who | have recently completed a second edition of the book.In the new edition of this stand­ard text book, the contents have been revised to meet the needs of those who prefer to make the course in Solid Analytical Geometry somewhat brief, as well as those who desire a more comprehensive course. In addition to its greater flexibility the book retains those features which have nict with wide approval in the first edition.Dr. Neelley received his B.S. and M.A. degrees at Vanderbilt Uni­versity. Before coming to Car­negie he taught- mathematics for four years at the Sheffield Scien­tific School of Yalc_ University.Percy F. Smith is at present professor of mathematics at the Sheffield Scientific School, and Ar­thur S. Gale, the third co-author of: the book, occupies _ the same position at the University of Ro­
chester.
FIRST CHAPEL OF YEAR IN LITTLE THEATER TODAY(Continued from Page One) the city address the faculty and students at the devotional exer­
cises.This year the Chapel services 
will be held every other Tuesday, or the day on which a General or Divisional Assembly is not sched­uled. Notices of Chapel appdar on the flagpole in front of Arts 
School.
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg.
624 LIBERTY AVE.
Branch Store 
428 FOURTH AYE.
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Special Student 
Rates
ECU BDANjPIL

---------------------------------------------------

‘XJESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1928.__ ____________________________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN __________________________________________________________________________________________________________S_
I’RACTK :K < >\T.R—TARTANS VERSUS JINX SATURDAY
DOPESTERS—HERE YOU ARE; figure it out! The 
Lutherans in their initial game held the Panthers to a 20-0 
- count, whereas the Skibos ran up 44 points,'but left through 
two touchdowns, something the “Golden Panthers” did not do.
If you have a theory or a guess as to the Pitt-Tech final 
score, make it! You will probably be wrong, but so will every­
one else;* ? * * * # *
SOME TEAMS have end arounds; others plunge, but Thiel 
has'1 a passing and intercepting technique of which they may be 
justly proud. Time and again Harpster’s passes seemed to fall 
directly into Blue and Gold arms and practically all of the 
Lutheran's goals or gains could be directly. attributed to their 
superb passing attack. With a more powerful offense and a 
few Steffen tricks the. Thi'cl boys would indeed be a formidable 
club. ; ¦’
A POTENTIAL FIELD DAY. «Saturday's game was a 
good workout for the Plaid. Although never a serious threat 
the Lutherans surely made,the first half exceedingly interesting; 
they put .up-a grim and clever fight1 which was worthy of much 
praisd. However the final half was one of the slowest, most 
uninteresting - periods we .have -ever seen. Both teams were 
sluggish and guilty of much poor playing. The heat is as good 
i an excuse'.as any.* * * * * *
LET US FORGET the backfield for once—they always re­
ceive the praise while the line is merely among those present. 
Any backfield is just as strong as its line—we often hear of a 
spectacular run by so-and-so, but little attention is paid to the 
mauled up line which made the play possible.
DRESHAR, at center, receives first mention, while 
SCHMIDT, and HIGHBERGER, at tackle, and ROSENZWEIG 
at end, follow closely for commendable performance. “TONY” 
SWEET pulled off- some of the prettiest end-around plays we 
have ever seen; he played a fast and exceptionally good game.
HOWEVER, it is practically impossible to pass comment 
on the game without bringing in two backfield performers. The 
work of MOORHEAD and KARCIS was the feature of the day. * *, * * * * .*
THE PRESIDENTIAL STOCK went down “about fifty 
points when the local Catholics took Andy Kerr’s boys for a 
ride. • Doubtless many W. and J. alumni are resorting to. the 
proverbial mug of beer in an attempt to efface the recent blot 
on their grid history.
YEAR AFTER YEAR tlie Skibos have been confident; 
many times we have seen our team outplay and outsmart the 
W. and J. eleven, only to have*the breaks give the Presidents 
a tie or win, and then to hear anew that old cry, “We’ll beat’ 
them next year.” This Saturday we are confident; the jinx will, 
be of little use wi.fclv Ivarcis and- F,yth carrying the ball. '^•'Never­
theless, there is going to be a large and enthusiastic crowd on 
lcc.lv to see the Red and Black again face the Plaid : in their 
hitter annual combat. Again we say, any hazard as to the score 
vould be foolish;. many a one will be made'and many a dollar 
til be lost.* * ***’.* *
A LEATHER MASKED W. and J. player will probably 
be noticed by all the spectators, next Saturday. Tie is “Jap” 
Douds, famous President tackle, who got the worst of an argu­
ment with a skyrocket last Fourth. lie wears the mask to pro­
ject his injured face.*******
THE CITY FATHERS arc getting right athletic. Here 
we have them changing a perfectly ordinary day into “Pittsburgh 
J:1 ootball Day, ’ which will be observed annually on the day of 
the Tech-Pitt get-together, up in the Stadium. In addition to 
tl-je day the Council is also furnishing a suitable trophy to be 
Missed’ annually to the victor—the gridiron champions of Pitts­
burgh/ It is only appropriate that C. I. T. should be the first 
lame to be engraved, on the cup; which is as good as in the rojjhy room right now.
¦v' .. • .i ¦' * * * *.. * * *
W HILE THL MOUNTAINEER varsity was giving the 
Sutherland boys, the works, their freshmen were, administering 
.(Similar beating to the Carnegie Yearlings. Both ICozicki ¡inti 
Aiegjci played , exceptionally good games before they were .- car- 
iiecl {tom the field, with minor injuries, tip in their mountain
stronghold, they must feed the gridmcn nails because they sure
do play, one hard, fast,'God pity the man on tile bottom, game. 
J oundey, at full, and Kwing at 'halfback, also gave creditable cx- 
Inbitions of their football skill. It would please us very, much 
to see the first year men take over the W. and J. plebes, as a 
suitable preliminary to the varsity game.**»».***
DIRT \ PLA\, so says the Westminster college paper, in 
reference to the Tartan’s initial game. The following is an ex­
tract from their,paper: “Decided attempts on the part of Car- 
.icgic payers to slug their lighter opponents marred the game 
at times. Outside of these irregularities, for which the Plaid 
sntfered numerous penalties, the game was cleanly played.” 
this may be true, but'still w.c. can remember on several occa- 
lous when the Westminster boys were going to be penalized -fafpster told the referee, “to let it go:”;*******
MAX SALKIN, Carnegie’s cross-country iron man, de- 
cated Thiel, last Saturday when he crossed the six-mile tape in 
hirty, fifty.-five and two-fifths seconds, leading his sophomore 
ea,inmate, Worley, by a. full minute. Pelc, of Thiel, was third 
o cross the line some twenty-seconds behind Worley. Phil 
vfagnuson, who was coming in for fourth place, for the Plaid, 
ollapsed one hundred yards from the tape. He had kept up 
he gruelling pace as long as possible and was completely out ¦hen picked up.1 *******
THE OLD CARNEGIE SPIRIT is one of those things 
you hear so much about but seldom see. The cheering, if it can 
he ¡called that, is usually terrible, while the singing is worse—if 
possible. There used to be a time when Plebes marched be­
tween the halves and a little spirit w.as shown, but it seems that 
now it is considered bad taste to show any pep. If the sopho­
mores arc not interested enough to get the Frosh out for a 
little snake dance, then the Plebes should do it themselves. It 
is not the eating peanuts in the bleachers that is remembered 
when college days are over, but it is the regulations, the march­
ing, the cheering, the swearing, that builds up school spirit 
and makes a school a college and not merely a place to get an 
education. A little less hazing, and beating on the campus and 
a great deal more activity at the football games would consti­
tute our idea of more practical regulations.*******
GUY HALFERTY still has several uniforms lie would like 
o put on freshmen cross-country aspirants. - This is one of the 
:>est wa)'S to win your numerals—better try out for it, Plebes!
’nterfraternity Council Sets
(Continued from Page 1)
Wlil ¦•midnight, Sat’iirdav, Dcccm- *or 8.\. - •Section 3. During; the rushing
period* freshmen must leave the 
fraternity house by 9 o’clock any 
night ¦preted\ng a ,:school day.
Section 4. ' All rushing and bid­ding shall vcease at midnight, De­cember S, after which there‘will be
are none who can’t dcvlop into good distance men.The next two weeks will see lots of tired legs for the Plaid path- pounders, as Coach Halfcrtv knows that they must be in the best of condition in order to lead Pitt’s men through the paths of Schfcn- 
lcy Park on October 27.
Prof. Wallace Will Talk 
Over Iv. D. Iv. A. Oct. 20
Dean Kccble is the author of a talk to be read over KDKA by Chester Wallace Saturday evening, October 20, at 7:15, ^n “The^Re­naissance of Art in America.”The talk is a comment on>-a book bv R'. L. Dufiius, entitled “The
American Renaissance’’ for which 
the author has collected material from leading colleges and universi­ties throughout the United States. Mr. Duffus recently visited the Carnegie Tech Arts School and in the book considers it azotic of the outstanding colleges or universities in the field of art in the United States. He was greatly impressed by the attention paid ,to every phase of the art work studied. The es­sence of his impressions emphasized the fact that Carnegie is progres­sing- towards an ideal in which in­dividual students or instructors play no greater _ a part than that of mere stepping stones «toward the attainment of a higher standard of art in the nation.
Blasting Circuits
Carnegie Grid Team Shows 
Great Offensive Strength
Saturday, October 13, Thiel failed to stop Carnegie’s crushing offense and the Tartans scored another vic­tory 45-13. Six of the Skibos’ seven touchdowns were; put over, in the first half against a fighting team which: had, held Pitt to one . touch­down * for ' three peridds. . It was alsftiin.ijhc first half that thc'Thiel- ians displayed a great ¡passing at­tack which netted them two touch­
downs. Without this aireal game tlje visitors would, have been' lost.
With a line -that was'Unable -to combat Carnegie’s forwards and’ with backs that appeared unable to do anything but kick and pass, the visitors were outclassed from start to finish. Early in the first quarter both Tech and Thiel broke into the scoring column. Our .first score came after a brilliant run »round, left end by Moorchcad. Then Karcis made the visitors all 
bunch together in the center of the line in one. effort to stop a line plunge.. Captain. Harpster took the ball and by stepping outside the pile sprinted across the last white mark for the first touchdown. It was.;, in t.lie next live minutes that Thiel . let. loose a baffling aerial game which netted them two mark­ers. The .Tartans wore very quick to retaliate,. however, and before the whistle blfcw which ended the first , half they had . piled up some-
39- points. ¦
1 u the . second half many regu­lars were given a rest and the. sub­stitutes took up the playing where t'heir. teammates had left off. The ’Crimson line held well and at no time in the latter half of the. game was their • goal line in danger. Hilty advanced the ball from one side. of the Jield to the other and when Tech did have opportunities to score they were lost by fumbling and • other types of .loose playing. Red Kennedy, the smallest man or. the entire squad, delighted the Carnegie rooters by scooting off tackle and then by reversing •liis field ran the remaining. 57 yards which separated him from the goal 
line. ' This run proved to be oiie of the high spots in the entire afternoon.
The Skibos have been advanc­ing step by step and this last Sat­urday they certainly took a big one. The team has gained mo­mentum each week and if Steffen and Waddell's plans materialize they will have the Plaid team go­ing at full speed this Saturday. Harpster, Karcis, Letzelter, Eytli, and Moorhead, Wally’s five aces, have showed plenty of offensive power to date and it remains to be seen what they will do against real opposition. Although Letzelter , has seldom carried the ball this 
year his great power in taking op­posing players ; out has been very noticeable as well as his wonder­
ful defensive ability.
a period of silence between rushecs and fraternity men until the time of acceptance of bids.
Section 5. At the designated time the ¿ushcc will .signify his choice by presenting himself at the house of the fraternity of his selec­tion. From that time, all men so pledged shall year buttons which shall be strictly honored by all fra­ternities unless the pledge is an­nounced irregular by the proper authorities.
The breaking of this pledge de­clares a man ineligible for re- pledging for a period of one semes­ter after the ensuing semester.Section 6. From this time on, open rushing in regard to fall reg­istrants, shall prevail.
The period of silence is from midnight Saturday; December 8, until noon,'Sunday, December 9.
Carnegie’s Men Win
(Continued from Page 1);
Thiel’s line was ripped, torn. and shattered until the ball was rest­ing safely over the goal line. Alter the extra point was made by Letzeler and the ball kicked off to the Blue and,Gold, the visitors unleashed a passing attack that ended with six points being chalk­ed up for Thiel. Soon after, on a 'series of line bucks,, end runs and passes, Moorchead scored for Car­negie and -Letzelter kicked for and gained the extra point. A fumble by Thiel on their ' 38, yard line paved the way for Carnegie’s third touchdown, made by Flannagaij! on a smash through left tackle.
In the second quarter Carnegie 
added 18 more, points to the total and -Thiel 3. Moorchead slipped around left end for the first six and Eyth carried the ball over in straight plays from the 25 yard line for second six. Then a for­ward pass was batted into the hands of, Thompson of Thiel, who 
raced down the field for the visi­tors’ -second and last touchdown. Carnegie scored its sixth touch­down of the game on a short pass from Harpster to Kousman, after 
the ball had been brought from Carnegie’s 10 yard line. It was at this stage that Harnstrr raced 60 
yards - from his own 10 yard line to the visitors’ 30.
In third quarter Carnegie went scoreless, losing several opportuni­ties on account of penalties and fumbles. The seventh and last touchdown was made during the last quarter, when Kennedy raced 55 yards through left tackle to the Thiel goal.
The game showed one weakness in the Carliegie team that must and will be patched un before next Saturday and that is a strong de­fense- against forward passes. Nearly all the' ground gained by Thiel was by the aerial route. 
One of Notre Dame’s scouts was spotted in the stands and , was heard to comment on the Plaid’s weak passing defense, so it would not be at all surprising that if one was to journey up to South Bend in the near, future one would see Knutc and his cohorts drilling in­tensively in the art of throwing and catching a football. However, everyone has confidence in Wally and Bob and know that this week, the Tartans will be ready for any aerial game that the Presidents from W. and J. care to offer. As for W. and-J.—look out. Carnegie has a good team this 3'ear, while the Presidents arc comparatively weak, but the Red and Black al­ways seem to play their best against the Plaid. They have not been beaten by Carnegie for eight years and, needless to say this sea­son’s game will be no walkaway as far as the Plaid is concerned Bob Waddell cautioned the student body against- overconfidence at the assembly last week and Bob is in a position to know how matters stand. _ So ; don’t think that this game is in the bag, but get out and yell, so that every man on the squad will know that the entire school is behind them • in their battle for victory.Summary:Carnegie Tech ThielL. Flanagan-------L.E---------- BlistonSchmidt ------------L.T________ LawLovcwcll -------—L.G,_____ MaherDrcshar ------------C-------- LatimorcYerina --------------R.G------- LeonardHighberger ——R.T______ FranksRoseiizweig___R.E_____ PaluselliHarpster \------------Q------- BerkmanMoorchcad ____L.H______ SternerLetzelter -------__R.H.____ MitchellKarcis _----------------F________MyersCarnegie -----------21 IS 0 6—151 iiicl -------------  6 7 0 0—13
Substitutes: Carnegie — Morbito for ICarcis, Kousman for Roscn- zweig, Eyth for Moorchcad, Mclzi- ner for Dreshar. Drcshar for 'Yeri­na. -Hilty for Letzelter, Marshall for Highberger, Kerr for Moore-
head. L. Flanagan for Letzeler. Kennedy for Eyth, Booth for Love- well, Shaughnessy for Kousman, Traa for L. Flanagan; Thiel—War- dlc for Mitchell. Dimperio for Lawr, Schilling for Sterner, Mor­ris for Palqselli, Garthwaite for Myers, Thompson _ for Franks, Reinhold for Dimperio, Powell for Morris, Frampton for Dimperio,Powell for Morris, Frampton for Bliston.
Touchdowns: Carnegie—Harpster, Moorchead 2, L. Flanagan,, Eyth, Kousman, Kennedy; Thiel—Mitch­ell, Thompson. Goals after .touch­down: Carnegie—Letzelter 3: Thiel -Morris..
Referee—Hugh Lambie, Westmin­ster; umpire—Carl Rebele, Penn State; head linesman—Henry Blum, Iron City.
Varsity Cross-Country
(Continued from Page 1) .
Captain Donnell, sixth; Taylor, eighth; Brant, twelfth, and Gold­smith, thirteenth. As the scoring
in cross-country meets is unique it 
might be 'well to say that the place 
numbers, of the first five Inqn ’ on each team are added up with the low score taking the meet.
Although defeated, Coach Loeb’s path-pounders were game through­out, every man finishing the race, some with spurts of speed. They have been using a five-mile course this season and found the longer one hard to take.
With this victory to instill con­fidence, Coach Halfcrty’s country- cro’sscrs arc now pointing for the trot with Pitt’s representatives on October 27, the day of the annual football meeting. The squad this year is one that Coach 1-Ialfcrty or any other coach likes- to work with. To use his own expression, “There are no bums on this year’s squad.” By “bums” lie means hangers on with no prospects of developing. Every man on the sauad at present has possibilities, according to Mr. Halferty. There arc no really great stars on the team and at the same time there
Fig. 55'.—Parallel connections. A. Power or lighting circuit. B. Blasting switch for closing circuit. C. Leading wires of suffi­cient lciv'th to keep the switch “B” a safe distance from the blast and to reach to the last hole to be fired. D. Bore holes with electric detonators. E. Connections between the detonator wires from holes "D” to die leading wire "C”.
Lesson No. 3 of
BLASTERS’ HANDBOOK
E
VEN the way that wires are twisted together l 
in making connections has an important bear­
ing on proper use of explosives. Electric blasting is 
hedged around with most elaborate rules and pre­
cautions. There are series and parallel connections, 
parallel series and series parallel circuits. Blasting 
machines or power circuits for electric blasting are 
surrounded with great mystery.
In Chapter Three of the Blasters' Handbook this 
matter of blasting circuits is illustrated and com­
prehensively des ;ribed. The selection and use of 
galvanometers, rheostats and blasting machines are 
explained. Tells how to prevent misfires, how to test 
a circuit, how to locate a break, how to use a resis­
tance table and many other practical phases of blast­
ing circuits.
The Blasters’ Handbook, prepared originally for the use of 
du Pont field scrvicc men, is an extremely practical reference 
and study work. Leading technical institutions arc using the Blasters’ Handbook in their classrooms. Pockct size for your 
convenience.
This coupon will bring you a copy 
FREE. Send it off NOW.
E. I. da Pont dc Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Explosives Department, Wilmington, Delaware 
Without cost or obligation on my part, please »end me a copy of “The Blasters’ Handbook.”
Name________________________—
City........................... ...............-..................................Sfnfp.................................
ON THE EVE OF THE WORLD’S SERIES
Three Triumphant \ankees
conduct the Blindfold test. ..
and Miller Huggins picks OLD GOLD
The Babe and Lou here will tell you 
that there is only one way to choose ! 
a pitcher . . . and that’s to send him Jfiyf ’WK 
into the box and let him twirl a few 
innings.
So the best way to choose a ciga- |
rette is to put them all through their 
paces in the blindfold test.
In the test I have just made, Old 
Gold played right into my mitt. Its 
zippy flavor and mellow smoothness 
couldn’t be touched by the other 
three brands.
LOU GE 
(witness to the test)
MILLER HUGGINS
(who made the test)
BABE RUTH 
(witness to the test)
Made from the heart-leaves of the tobacco plant
In the dressing room at Navin Field in Detroit, 
Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig gave the blindfold 
cigarette test to Manager Miller Huggins. 
The famous Yankee pilot was asked to smoke
each of the four leading brands, clearing hit 
taste with coffee between smokes. Only ona 
question was asked, “which one do you like 
best?"
SMOOTHER AND BETTER - “NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1928.
tie CarntnLE hartan i
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600
Published oncc «very week during the 
collogc year by lindcrffrnduntcs of Carnegie 
Institute oi Technology. Entered in the ; 
Pittnburgh Pont Office nit :;econd-clnap matter, j 
' ' | 
THE STAFF 
Editor-in-Chicf—Stewart C. Ralston
Plaid Editor____Edw. E. McDonald j
Business Manager—James H. Seibert
Managing Editor—-William McNeill !
News Editor___________Ruth Bramson
Women's Editor»,_______Dorothy Roy
Athletic Editor... Thomas W. Lippcrt
Alumni Editor_____Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
1-Jelcti Reed Eugene Jarcma
Helen Booth Hyman J. Levinson
Helen Whitchill Kathryn O’Donnell 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Nathan Miller Joe B. '^atterson
Sara E. Wonders Alex M. Fisher
."JUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland
Jiicob Jarpc Henry L. Bunkcj', Jr.
Catherine Boyd
REPORTERS 
J. J. Boyle H. N. Meixner
M. Eckels D. K. Tomer
N. Kline I . M. Baugh
W. H. Martsolf E. Schlesinger
C. M. Wilson J. H; McAteer
L. 1. Shusset C. T. Ackenhcil
W. L. Myers *A. F. Phillips
D. H. Barr * E. J. Dattisman
W. W Hay G. H. Mcrrin
VV. J. Eason H. R._Wcitzel
I. Levin 
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Mgr.......Robert H. Wehrle j
Assistant..............____David II. -Center i
Willis-M. Crosby 
John Wright
Circulation Mgrs........Michael Malinich
Carl Blass
OfEice—Room 12, Industries Building. Of- ! 
fice Hours—Monday to Thursdays, 12:30, > 
1:20, Paper made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To insure publication on the succeeding j 
Tuesday, news items must be in the student ; 
post otlico .or Tartan Office before 4:30
Thursday.
After office hours, call—
Editor.............................................Onkmont "567-W
.............................^.„..„.»...Mayflower 8321 1
Plaid Editor-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Atlantic 1300
....................................'Schcnlcy 2381) i
Business Manager................—... Schcnlcy 1)211
Advert bin» Manager....................Schcnlcy 0082 ,
THINK IT OVERI “Getting Ready for Another Flight” ! j The Professoriüt Ii r
!
¡
"Any person under the age of | Then I tried to find out the causes , 
thirty, who, having any knowledge ! of the wrong and the remedy; 
of the existing social order, is not ! therefore. It has taken me some 
a revolutionist, is an inferior.”—G. j years, John. But 1 think I under-! 
Bernard Shaw. ¡stand it now, and I- want you to j
"Go out into the streets of any | understand it, and to help in your] 
big English town, and use your ¡turn to teach the truth to others, 
eyes, John. What do you find? ; "Sometimes while I have been j 
You find some rich and idle, wast- writing these letters I have felt i 
ing undarned wealth to their own ‘ bitter and angry. .More than once! 
shame and injury, and the shame I have thought that when I got j 
ond injury of others. You find i through the work I would ease my j 
hard-working people packed ,away heart with a few lines of irony or 
in vile, unhealthy streets. You find • invective. But I have thought bet-j 
little children, famished, dirty, and I ter of it. Looking back now I j 
half naked outside the luxurious remember my own weakness, folly,
clubs, shops, hotels, and theatres. 
You find men and women over­
worked and underpaid. You find 
vice and want and disease cheek by 
jowl with religion and culture and 
wealth. You find the usurer, the
cowardice. I have no heart to | 
scorn or censure other mcii. Char- j 
ity, John; ‘mercy, John; humility, 
John. We are poor creatures, all ! 
of us."—Blatchford's Merrie Eng- j 
land.
gambler, the fop, the finnikin fine! “WHAT IS COMPETITION. I
lady, and you find the starveling, 
the slave, the vagrant, the drunk­
ard, and the harlot.
"Is it nothing to you, John 
Smith? Are you a citizen? Arc 
you a man? And will not strike 
a blow for the right nor lift a 
hand to save the fallen, nor make 
the \smallcst sacrifice for the sake
from the point of view of the work- j 
man? It is work put up to auction. 
A contractor wants a workman; j 
three present themselves.
"How guich for your work?” j 
"Half a crown; I have a wife j 
and children.”
'Well; how much for yours?”
of your brothers and your sisters! J “Two shillings; 1 have no chil- | 
John, I am not trying to work 1 drcn, but I have a wife.” 
upon your feelings. This is not j “Very well; and now how much i - 
rhetoric, it is hard fact. I have for yours?”
suffered no hint of idealism to ^‘One and eightpcncc arc enough | 
escape me. I have kept as close for me; I am single.” 
to the earth as I could. 1 am j “Then you shall have the work.” 
only talking street talk about the | "It is done; the bargain is struck, j 
common sights, of the common j And what arc the other two work- 
town. I say that wrong and sor- men to do? It is to be hoped they 
row arc here crushing the life^out | will die quietly of hunger. But 
of our brothers and sisters. 1 say i what if they take to thieving? 
that you, in common with all men, ' Never fear; we have the police, 
arc responsible for the things that I Tp murder? ,We have the liang- 
are. I say that it is your duty to [man. As for the lucky, his triumph 
seek the remedy; and I say that is only temporary. Let a fourth 
if you seek it you will find it. , workman make his appearance, 
“These common sight's' of the strong enough to fast every other 
common streets, John, arc very day, and his pride will run down 
terrible to me. To a man ofc a j still lower; there will be a new 
nervous temperament, at oncc outcast, perhaps a new recruit for 
thoughtful and imaginative, those the prison.”—Louis Blanc, 
sights must be terrible. The pros- “I saw the World round me, one 
titutc under the lamps, the baby { part laboring for bread,, and the j 
beggar in the gutter, the broken 1 other yart squandering in vile ex- 
pauper in his livery of shame, the cess or empty pleasures, equally 
miserable, because the end they 
proposed still, fled from them; for
The clerks of the Holy Writ 
have shouted their hosannas; the 
morning hymn has been sung; the 
morons and the simon-purcs have 
rcgathcred and arc well on their 
way toward servitude once more. 
Crowds of social Juniors sit on the 
Senior fence chewing tobacco as a 
proof of their caste, and other 
crowds of the same ranks slump
ISERIOUSLY SPEAKINGi
The great quadrennial debauch is 
on. . . .
The air is now rent (at $16,000 
an hour) with the old wheezes and 
windjamming of the candidates for 
high office. Nightly, the great Amcr^ 
ican household gathers about the 
dials and adjusts its cars to the
down in rickety chairs, look- at | disturbances in the ether set up by 
battered texts with cow-like¦"coun- j KDKA, WCAE an
tcnanccs, and sigh at the countless 
quantities of labor they have al­
ready performed and hope to do. 
Both arc being moulded into shape 
in readiness for that mythical bat­
tle with life. Although some in­
structors certainly cannot be classed 
as moulders, much of this burden 
rests on their learned shoulders.
;id the other an- 
tcnnaccl monsters of the air. In­
deed, it seems that, the very atmos­
phere crackles and snaps with the 
declarations, accusations and countci- 
accusations of the candidates. Turn 
the dial in any direction one point 
and you will become a listener-in 
to a dispute between rival “spouters” 
up to their necks «in the intricacies.• /¦_.............f -....................___________ H EEESLet us review the manner in which | of farm relief or prohibition. And
ArseneLupin.
CAMPUS WEEK
At last week’s meeting, of the 
Student Council a communication 
from the Executive Board of the 
Faculty was read which advised 
that action had been taken by that 
body last May to discontinue the 
observance of Carnegie’s traditional 
spring carnival—Campus Week—in 
1929. It is a matter of record that 
at the final meeting of the Stuclcnt 
Council last spring, a resolution 
was passed that, the three-day fes­
tival of 1927 and previous years be 
continued next May. Thus opens 
what is probably a chicf topic , of 
discussion, and which will pro.ba-# 
bly be the cause of very frequent1 
mention of Campus Week through­
out the coming months.
It seems inconsistent that such 
action on the part of the Executive 
Board will remain without explana­
tion, and in, all fairness to the stu­
dent body this information should 
be made public. A function that 
has grown to hold such a promi­
nent: position on the traditional Car­
negie social calendar can not be 
.'withdrawn without adequate rea­
son. Student opinion and the 'sup­
port of a majority of the student 
i body should accompany ,any action 
which so vitally affccts the campus 
lifc^ The Tartan believes that Car­
negie students desire the continua­
tion of Campus Week as it is re­
membered by present Juniors and 
Seniors. Should such a supposition 
prove accuratc, it is unbelievable 
that the administration would con­
tinue to oppose the observance of 
Campus Week, Carnegie has 
gained an enviable nation-wide rep­
utation for its efficient and prac­
tical student government, and for 
the Executive Board to virtually 
condemn the wishes of a repre­
sentative student group would 
greatly hamper the functioning of 
student control in matters of un­
dergraduate interest.
The Tartan will endeavor to aid 
in the crystalizing of campus opin­
ion on this subject, and contribu­
tions will be given proportionate 
publicity. Anonymous letters will, 
of: course, receive no consideration, 
but identity in the paper may be 
withheld if desirable.
weary worker stifling in his filthy 
slums, the wage slave toiling at his 
task; the sealers’ victim ‘sewing at 
once, with a double thread, a shroud 
as well as a shirt,’ these are dread­
ful, ghastly, shameful facts which 
long since seared themselves' upon 
my heart.
All this sin, all this wretched'
WHY THE “Y”?
Ony onccl each year do the Car­
negie branches of the Young Men’s 
and the Young Women’s Christian 
Associations solicit financial sup­
port from the students on the cam­
pus. Their work is widespread 
throughout the entire calendar year, 
and only by careful planning and 
management are the plans of the 
“Y” so capably carried on without 
continually requesting funds for the 
work. _ In past years, Carnegie has 
appreciated such efficient budgeting 
by responding faithfully to the an­
nua. call for aid that is- sent out 
early in the fall of each year. It 
is only reasonable to hope for the 
continuation of such a program of 
goodwill this year, and The Tartan 
takes this opportunity to suggest 
that all supporters of the Y. M. 
and the Y. W. C. A. do not delay 
in making their contribution to the 
work of these organizations. New 
students in particular have cause' 
1 for a friendly attitude toward the 
"Y”, and the ability to carry on 
its activities will be governed 
largely by the student support as 
evidenced this week during the 
campaign for memberships. The 
“Y” is for You, and for Carnegie 
—aVc you for the “Y”?
A SUGGESTION
T,o new students, ;...d particularly 
to the Plebes—the monthly General 
Assemblies at the Music Hall arc 
for the benefit and entertainment of 
Carnegie students. Fellow students 
have arranged the programs, and 
the success of the assemblies is 
dependent upon student support. 
If ihosc who sit in the balconies 
will exercise a bit o.' care and good 
judgment in their actions, the as­
sembly programs will be more en­
joyable for all those present. Bois­
terous activity should be restricted 
.to football exhibitions, underclass 
frolics on The Cut, and similar 
affairs. The throwing of paper, 
coins, and other articles can not
the man of pleasure fcvery day 
surfeited of his1 vice, and heaped 
up work for sorrow and repentance; 
and the man - of labor spent his 
strength in daily struggling for 
bread to maintain the vital strength 
lie labored with; so living in a
ness, all this pain, in spite of the-j daily circulation of sorrow, living
smiling fields and the laughing i but to work, and working but to
waters, under the awful and tin- ¦ live, as if daily bread were the 
sullied sky. And no renicdy! (only end of a wearisome life, and
“These things I saw, and knew a wearisome life only occasion of
(hat I was. responsible as a man. I daily bread.”
BOOK REVIEW
HAROLD THE WEBÇED
1 am one of the three, .or.is it
four, people in the State of Penn­
sylvania who have, not read Trader 
Horn, Volume I, th«\t extraordinary 
tale of wild African adventure pub­
lished over a year ago. 1 have 
just made ample amends by' reading 
Harold the Webbed, which is the 
other name for Trader Horn, Vol­
ume II. Harold the Webbed, in 
itself, is dull, hard to read, and 
badly written. It is the story of 
how Harold, the son of Bold 
Roger the Viking,, sets sail with a 
group of his companions to follow 
his father's fleet. His first adven­
ture is on the coast of Ireland. 
“When young Harold according to 
a plan agreed on by all quietly 
dived into the sea and was through 
the surf and crept cautiously, up 
the beach being nearly naked 
wearing only skin tights, he easily 
mjidc good his landing, but that 
was on a, spot that was guarded 
by a knot of watchers who did 
not tarry a moment but being full 
of the superstition of their time 
made fast their escape in the dust 
and mist, believing this to be a 
sea goblin or some uncanny thing 
they had witnessed as they said 
when reporting to the shore patrol 
who were not far distant.” That 
is the way Trader Horn and many 
Tech freshmen write. Harold over­
takes a Welsh market boat, and 
exchanges with the captain for a 
strong jarful of Mona's Best Mead, 
two flagons of Fingall’s whiskey. 
“Whiclr they all declared was the 
best of its kind, the women and 
girls all drinking from one large 
horn pulled wry faces but enjoyed 
it.” A 'Cornish longboat, and a 
Phoenician galley provide the first 
»loot, which is chiefly tin. Harold 
happens tQ meet the galley ,of 
Caesar, who is invading Britain, 
and after exchanging arrows with 
him, he watches Caesar’s landing.
Shortly afterwards, Harold finds 
his father, and the whole viking 
fleet captures and loots four Roman 
w. • galleys, and six convoys. “And 
all preyed that Seasar who had 
brought them such Wealth and 
handed it over so easily would live 
long and come often.” Fortunately, 
Harold the Webbed hardly fills half 
of the book; The other half is the 
conversations Trader Horn has 
with Mrs._ Ethelreda Lewis about 
each of his chapters, and a long, 
gdssipy introduction by Mrs. Lewis 
telling us some new • things about 
the life in the Golden 'City ¦ of this 
interesting old timer she got ac­
quainted with one day when he 
persuaded her to .buy a gridiron 
she probably didn't need. Trader 
Horn is a genuine primitive. His 
tremendous appeal to a sophis­
ticated modern reader, then, is easy 
enough to explain. What a man
he is! “Aye, when you’ve got to 
assuage a cannibal into the buying 
mood 'tis a more manly effort than 
facing a woman who doesn’t want 
lo buy; They don't t know I’vfc 
faced rogue elephants. Lions in 
sets and so forth.. When y.ou'.v'c 
heard the gorillas roar at dawn it 
takes away the capacity for fear­
ing the common house dog.” 
lie knows “one or two families' 
where there arc fine ladies 're 
webbed. They can't pull their 
gloves on properly nor play the 
piano, but they’re grand in the 
water. Of course they’d not pub­
lish abroad that they're webbed 
ones. It naturally makes a lady 
sensitive not to be able to play 
the piano.” “There’s great status 
in having my own stove in my 
room,” lie tells Mrs. Lewis.,' “Hos­
pitality gives a’man self respect. . . 
All the fellers that aren’t Homo 
Stultus wash their shirts oil; Sun­
day morning.” “A Bible's a curio­
sity people only have in the parlour 
for a keepsake,” lie comments. 
“A big ball, spinning, in spacc, and 
man with tlie privilege of balancing 
his . life out on it, that's miracle 
enough for me. I’m not asking 
for anything more intimate. I’m 
not expecting the Ruler of' the 
Universe to cure my toothache as 
proof that lie exists.” He puts 
certain notions plainly enough: 
"It makes me sick to add to my 
knowledge with other fellows' 
books. . . . A man’s a man for a’ 
that, but the man that utilises 
nature’ll always be top dog. . . . 
.1 cart diagnose the sarcasljc' in 
two words—no' gentleman. . . . 
Well, ma’am, I'm .glad my literary 
notions ’re- pleasing you. History 
plus the fair sex has always been 
a winner.” After such things, and 
Trader Horn Volume II is full of 
others, one is rather glad that 
Mrs. Lewis promises her readers 
a Volume III.
Trader Horn, Volume II, like 
Trader Horn, Volume I, the orig­
inal hornbook,^comes from the in­
teresting publishing firm of Simon 
and Schuster, which published two 
and one-half years ago Will Dur­
ant's extraordinarily popular Story 
of Philosophy, a book hundreds of 
Americans aire ^ still buying each 
week at its original price of five 
dollars. More recently Simon and 
Schuster have published Felix Sal- 
tcn's Bambi, and.J. P. McEvoy’s 
Show Girl, the hilarious sag a of 
the chorus girl, Dixi? Dugan, a 
book which the publishers insist 
has been making whoopee with 
America. This firm announces for 
October 18 a mysterious book 
called The Technique of the Love 
Affair. It is not difficult to be­
lieve that there will be a few Tech 
students discussing it at breakfast 
tli'.- next day. E. G. F.
be tolerated in the Music Hall.
Merely a suggestion—to be fol­
lowed by more stringent action if 
necessary. To plagiarize the Hand­
book, “your presence should be 
noticcablc, but, not objectionably 
so” at assemblies.- Be a college 
man, and don't be “collcgiatc.”
Princeton, N, J.—Returning to 
P/inceton University for the open­
ing of college, John D. Rockefeller 
3rd - has become undergraduate di­
rector of the Philadelphia Society 
of the student Christian Associa­
tion.
student Council Favors
(Continued from Page 1.)
matter, -was turned over to John 
Barr, in charge' of Regulations.
I A petition from' Ralph Kruck, 
manager of Ralph Kruck’s Tartans, 
was read asking for permission' to 
use the Union for orchestra prac­
tice on Sunday afternoons. Since 
this, permission, has never been 
granted to any .similar organiza­
tion for such a. purpose it was 
withheld in this case also.
Synopsis of the Two Previous 
Installments
Arsene Lupin is known to be on 
board the transatlantic liner, the 
Provence. He has already boldly 
stolen jewels and money. The 
storjr is picked up here at the 
moment when the first-class pas­
sengers, including one Rozaine, 
who has been suspected of being 
Lupin, arc about to disembark. **?*.*
Finally the suprem,c moment ar: 
rived. If I live to be a hundred 
I shall never forget the slightest 
detail connected with it,
‘How pale you arc, Miss Nelly,’.’ 
said to my companion, as she 
leaned on my arm, almost faint­
ing.
And you,” she replied, “ah! how 
changed.you are!”
“And why not? I am so happy 
to be near you, Miss. Nelly, that 
this moment is a moment of pas­
sion. \ It seems to me that some­
times you forget. ...”
Nervous, and breathing heavily, 
she did not listen. The gang­
plank was pushed out. .But before 
we were to cross it, people began 
coming on board, -custom officers, 
officials in uniform, porters. '
Miss ' Nelly stammered, “If they 
discover that Arsene Lupin . has 
escaped during the crossing, I 
wouldn’t be surprised.”
"Perhaps he has preferred death 
to dishonor, and jumping into the 
Atlantic rather than being ar­
rested.”
“Don’t laugh about it,” she said, 
provoked.
Suddenly I started, and as she; 
looked at me qucstioningly, I said 
to her:
“You see that little old man 
standing there at the end of. .the 
¦gangplank?”
“With an umbrella and a green 
coat?”
"ft’s -Ganimard.”
"Ganimard?” '
"Yes, the celebrated detective, he 
who has sworn that lie would ar­
rest Arsene Lupin with his own 
hand. Ah! I understand now why 
we haven’t had any news from this 
side of the ocoan. Ganimard was 
there. He likes it very well .when 
no ope interferes with his busi­
ness.”
“Then Arsene Lupin is sure to 
be taken.”
“Who can tell? ' Ganimard has 
never seen him, it appears, ¡except 
when he was disguised as a wrink­
led old man. Unless lie knows his 
assumed name. . . .”
“All!” she interrupted, with that 
rather cruel curiosity of woman, 
“if only I could .be there when 
he is arrested!”
“We shall have to be patient 
for that. Arsene Lupin has cer­
tainly noticed already that his 
enemy is here. He will prefer to 
get off the boat with the lastyqnes. 
when the eye of the old detective 
is tired.”
The disembarcation commcnecd. 
Leaning on his umbrella, with an 
indifferent air, Ganimard • didn’t 
seem to pay any attention to the 
crowd which moved, o.ver- the gang­
plank. I noticed that one of the 
ship’s officers, standing behind him, 
spoke to him from time to time.
The Marquis de Ravidan, Major 
RaWson, Rivolta, the Italian, filed 
by him, and others, and many 
others. . . . Then I noticed that 
Rozaine was coming' along.
Poor Rozaine!' He didn’t appear 
at all resigned tojiis misfortunes!
“perhaps it’s not him after ..all,”: 
A-Iiss Nelly said to me.' . . .
"What do you think?”
“I think it would be very inter­
esting to have a photo, of Ganimard 
and Rozaine' together. Y'ou^ take 
it: with my camera, I'm-, carrying 
so many things:”
I gave .it to her, but too late 
for her to make use of it. Rozaine 
was almost by. The officer .whis­
pered something into the ear of 
Ganimard, who shrugged his shoul­
ders. 'Rozaine had disappeared.
•But- in that ease, .good heavens, 
who was Arsene Lupin?
"Yes,” she said aloud, “who is he?” ‘ -
There were no more t hah 20 
people left. She looked at them 
one by one, with the confused fear 
that he. was no longer there;'- that 
lie was not one of those 20.
I said to her, “We mustn't’ wM’t 
here any longer.”
! She moved. forward. I followed 
I her. But \Vc had not .taken’ JO 
steps before Ganimard barred, the 
j way.
1 “Well, what is it?” I exclaimed.
"One moment, Monsieur, what 
hurries you? One moment,” h'c 
repeated in a more commanding 
voice.'
“I am accompanying. Mademoi­
selle.
He. looked at wiy face carefully, 
then he said to me, gazing iin‘o 
my eyes, “Arsene Lupin, isn't it?”
I began to laugh.
‘‘.No, Bernard d’Andrezy, 
all.”
that's 
th ret
they bear it.
Everywhere one hears comments 
about the mannerisms of teachers. 
Some are modern Savonarolas, 
shouting their doctrines with a con­
vincing but rather needless amount 
of volume and intensity. They 
rave and rant, like a communist 
at a carnival, striding the length 
of their cages, waving arms .and 
banging ancicnt tables till the very 
walls become convinced of their 
sincerity, holding their conversation 
with the wide world'and caring not. 
Confusion and repulsion usually go 
hand in hand and the result is 
never pleasing nor in the least 
elevating.
Others attempt to break into 
publicity by assuming the role of 
Punchinellos. They caper and 
dance like characters in a puppet 
show and their one man dialogue, 
which is generally meant for wit, 
is somewhat worn by age and lion- 
red by time. Jesting is an art 
that instructors have assumed with­
out proper preparation or costum-. 
ing. We could contribute towards 
some modest uniform—a cap and 
bells—and even succeed in having 
them wear it, but their stock humor 
would still savor of old spinach 
and effortless plaudits from the 
scholars would still be as scarce 
as the proverbial hen’s teeth. After 
all, - one remembers that jesters 
supposedly went out with kings. 
And we can easily afford spectacles 
in theatres) that may be said to 
equal in mirth producing qualities 
that of the pedagogues. Will some­
one please move that vaudeville 
privileges be struck from the reg­
istration fees?
But the objects of our undying 
affection arc still sitting in the 
back row, smug and unscathed, 
waiting their turn. One imagines 
them as modern crusaders who, 
having no Turks i oil whom they 
can vent their spleen, gather plumes 
for their helmets by sinking their 
scimitars into the self respect of 
upright students. Scholars cringe 
before their tyranny, and they, like 
vultures sniffing choice morsels of 
carrion, drive them on with mailed 
fists that hold the coveted diplomas 
in on hand and scourges in the 
other. One is tempted to place 
his pride in a vault and, since 
honesty and sincerity count for 
naught, pack them away in moth 
balls against a time, when they will 
perhaps be recognized.
After all, some degree of Self 
sacrifice is necessary in our quest; 
but When, as it often docs, fate 
places these obstacles in the path 
of knowledge, they arc taken by 
hurdles, and- the gain toward the 
final shrine is not noticeable.—G. W.
ibis happens at any time, even be 
tween midnight and morn.
swap horses crossing a stream?. Is 
it not the tariff also that protects
the high wages of the worker^ of 
the state and insures that the »pay­
ments on the new Fsord will be
completed in good form? \ 
Alas, there arc, however, vexing 
problems which will affect the vote 
this fall 'besides these more apparent 
considerations which might be dis­
covered by any correspondent riding 
disguised through the state. It takes 
a keener insight, however, to dis­
cover the rankling discontent among 
the electorate which will mean al 
least many scratched ballots. One or
the parties will have to account, for
instance, for the dismissal, abject 
failure of the Cardinals iu the late; 
lamented World Series debacle. The 
incoming administration will have to 
make huge promises to overcome this
Yosr favorite news sheet may be | fall in community pride. How main; 
pink, peach or yellow in dress, but j thousands of voters but will have 
in every case you arc greeted in any ! their decision in the November dem­
and all of the daily dozen editions tion affected by a fact overlooked by 
with many closely-printed columns of amateur writers of the lesser papers, 
comment on the progress of the cam- but proudly discovered by a reporter 
paign. When twilight comes, the fresh from the state university? Thispaign. _
tired business man sits down to his 
daily- feast of prophecy and diminu­
tion. For there arc spread out the 
predictions of the poliiicr.l wiseacres 
who arc now traveling up and down 
the land in order to sense the drift
"Bernard d'Andrczy died- 
years ago in Macedonia.”
“If Bernard d’Andrczy is dead,
I am dead. But that's not the 
case. Here are my papers.”
“The papers arc his. How you 
happen to have them, it will give 
me. pleasure to explain to you.”
“This is ridiculous! Arsene Lupin 
_ot on board8' ship under some 
name .beginning with R.”
“Yes, another trick of yours, a 
false clue which you /left for us 
over there. Ah! you’re a clever 
one, but this time luck is against 
you. Come, Lupin, show yourself 
sport..”.
1 hesitated for a moment. Sud­
denly lie struck me on my right 
forearm. I cried out with pain. He 
liad struck the unhealed wound 
which’ the radio had mentioned.
After that, what could I do? I 
turned toward Miss Nelly. She 
was listening, blushing. Her eyes 
met mine; then she glanced at the 
kodak I had given her. She made 
a quick gesture, and I had the im­
pression I was certain that ' she 
understood. Yes, they were there, 
inside that little black leather oox 
which I had. taken care to let her 
carry, there were Rozainc's 20,000 
francs, and Lady Jcrland’s pearls 
and diamonds.
All! I swear that at that solemn 
moment when" Ganimard and two 
of his officers surrounded me, all 
was indifferent to me; my arrest, 
the hostility of those people, every­
thing except this: What Miss Nelly 
was going to do with the camera 
I Mi ad giyen her.
Unless Ganimard had against me 
that definite and decisive proof, I 
would not even have to. think of 
being afraid, but would Miss Nelly 
decide to give it to him. Was I 
going to be betrayed by her, lost 
by her? Was she going to act as 
an. enemy who never pardons, or 
as a woman who remembers, and 
whose scorn is rather aoftened by 
indulgence and involuntary sym­
pathy?
She passed before me, and with­
out speaking to her, I bowed.
Mixing with some others, she 
moved towards the gangplank, my 
kodak in her hand.
Doubtless, I thought, she doesn’t 
dare to give it tip in public. In 
an hour, perhaps in a few minutes, 
she'll turn it in. But when she 
¡had reached the middle of the 
gangplank, by a clcverly pretended 
awkward movement, she let the 
camera fall into the water, between 
the wall of the wharf and the side 
of the boat.
I saw her move away after that. -------„-------...
Her pretty, face lost itself m the student activity ' organizations 
crowd, appeared again, and then | Constantly seeking to be helpful
disappeared. It was " finished,. fin- to members of the student body
ished forever. ¦ or to C. 1. T.
For a moment I stood there As the servant of Carnolie Tech
nrotionlcss, sorrowful, then 1 sighed ¡i endeavors:
additional complication is the follow-* 
ing. Through diligent searching in 
the records, this young, man was 
unable to discover a single football 
team in the history of the majo^ 
schools of the state otA Missouri 
of political thinking in the variaus I which had achieved recognition on 
sections of the country. In fact, so the front pages of the nation. This
thick and numerous are these re- ignominy has begun to weigh upon
porters that one suspects that be- the hearts of the voters of the state
hind every strange face that -one and will have an effect ccrtainly in
meets today in the accustomed round causing many to bolt their party ol-_____ today
of daily duties, there lurks the soul 
of a professional inquisitor who « 
then and- there trying to wring irom 
us the secret of the wav we shall 
cast our ballots. At any rate, they 
seem to' know the exact -.o nip lex 
of the state of affairs in each state. 
In all the alarming confusion ot re­
ligion.; feeling, economic distress and 
prosperity, shades cf wetness and 
dryness, political machinery hidden 
behind every bush and office, the 
correspondents arc able to thread 
their way.
In Missouri, for example, there is 
a dry candidate in a very “wet state. 
The western part of the state is 
in extreme distress because of a fall 
in the price of corn, while the east­
ern part of the state is experiencing 
"prosperity.” In addition, the local 
makeup of the city population is 
of a Catholic complexion while not 
so far away the night-riders arc 
ruling the coUntrysidcy in flowing 
white sheets, swearing death to the 
minions of tliCs Pope, who is ready 
to set Up his rule in St. Louis. At 
ally moment, the Mississippi is ready 
to overflow its banks and this will 
complicate the'all-waterway route to 
the sea. Besides, the fiery and W'!y 
spnaior of- the state violently op­
posed the nomination of tljc candi­
date of his parly and is home sulk­
ing instead of orating. But the rival 
candidate for president, you mfr-t 
remember, by the aid of extremely 
expert statistics, declared that the 
geographical center of the United 
States was now located seven, miles 
out of a small town in Missouri: 
Tn addition, Lindbergh flew to 
Europe in the Spirit of St. Louis 
and this happened under a Republi­
can administration, therefore why
lcgiancc of the past.
The strategists and spellbinders 
must meet all these factors iu their 
plans for the success of the ticket. 
Why then be astounded by the
squirmirtgs, the apparent reconcilia­
tions of contradictory doctrines and 
the chameleon changes of the candi-j 
dates? It takes genius .to run
through all the degrees of wetness
and dryness in a few days’ traveling 
from East to West; it t’.k^s piles 
of statistics to prove that prosperity 
is»a boon to the unemployed,- and 
it calls for nothing less than genius 
to reconcile the proud law eiiforc:- 
ihent committee of the cily with the 
local bootlegging-racketeering politi­
cal boss. There arc other ; finct
points. For example, one’s dress 
must be carcfully attended. Recent­
ly, a .correspondent noted, the fine 
effect produced in. the West by thf 
fact that the Tammany candidate 
always had every button on his vest 
secure.
Of course, in the hubbub the
minor candidates find their way
tli rough injunctions, kidnap ings and 
lack of money as best they may. 
That is the price they must pay f<>) 
being- in the minority and being abl 
to put on only a side-show in th 
.day and age. when most of( us ar 
.satisfied with nothing less’ than-' 
spectacle.
The fateful day draws nigh. B;
that seems hardly as interesting 
the magnificent play now unfoldi 
itself before us in the fireworks I 
the campaign. Who said that 
democracy was a dull system (;• 
under? »It is only a pity that \ 
never quite understand until too 1? 
who it is that pays for the \{ 
show. —N. Mi
Carnegie“Y”Financial , Clifford Ball, manager of 1, ,, _ Pittsburgh-Youngstown - Clevcla(Continued from Page One) Ai, Mail Route, and also the in;
Students’ Dinner, and any other 
possible method.
Arranging invitations for students 
in private homes..
Assuming responsibility, for . caps 
and gowns.
Co-operating in the Chapel Serv­
ice.
Promoting Stags and Entertain­
ments.
Co-operating with student em­
ployment and branches of Y. M. C. 
A. of. Pittsburgh.
Co-operating in every way with
to the great astonishment of Gani­
mard.
“It's a shame after all not to 
be an- honest man.”
Thus it was, one Winter evening, 
that Arsene Lupin told me the , 
history of his arrest. Some un.-i 
forscen incidents, which I may j 
write about some day, had estab­
lished,, between us links. ... of 
friendship, shall I say? Yes, 1 
dare to think that Arsene Lupin 
honors me with his friendship, and 
that it’s because of .friendship that 
lie- sometimes - appears unexpectedly 
in my rooms, bringing, into the 
silcivce of my study his boyish 
gaiety, the enthusiasm 'of his life,, 
and ‘ _his good humor for which 
destiny seems to have, only favors 
and smiles.
His portrait? How could I make 
it? I have sc.cn Lupin 20 times, 
and 20 times he has appeared . . . 
or rather, the same" being has been 
reflected by 20 strange mirrors, 
each reflection having its own eyes, 
its own posture, its own gestures, 
it^ own silhouette, and its own 
¦cliaracte.r.
“I 'myself,’r. he said to me, “I 
no longer know who I am. In a 
mirror I no longer recognize my­
self. Why/1' lie went on, “should 
I have one fixed appearance. Why 
not avoid the danger of jt.".per­
sonality that is' always the same. 
My acts are enough to mark me 
out”
Then lie. added with a little 
pride; "So much the better if they 
can- never say certainly, ‘That’s 
Arsene Lupin.’ The essential thing 
is that they '.can say without any 
j chalice of error, ‘Arsene Lupin did 
that.”’*****
This concludes. the first Arsene 
I Lupin story, Arsene Lupin under 
Arres.t, and this particular feature 
of the Tartan, for the Tartan has 
decided not to continue the pub­
lication of these translations of 
the. mystifying adventures of that 
incomparable' and charming thief, 
Arsene Lupin.
J.'o carry* its load with faculty 
and executive officers in developing 
well-rounded - Carnegie men.
To bring Carnegie to. the favor­
able attention of Pittsburgh’s church 
people by co-operating with the 
churches.
To bring the Institute to the
Alumni Federation| AIR POCKETS | (Continued from Fa„e ,)
* 1 The C..rncgic-Pitt football gill 
will be feature of the afternoon. ; 
the j In the evening all fraternities w, 
...and I have open house. There Svill ) 
man-! dancing in both the fraternity lions 
ager of Bettis’Field Airport,* was ¡and in the Union. The complete pi 
the guest speaker at the open grain for the d^y is:
meeting of the Aviation Club last 11:00 A. M.—Alumni Fcdcrat1 
night in Room 104 Industries. The Meeting iu Trophy Room,.Gy
club is certainly '.fortunate in being 
able to have such important au­
thorities on/ aviation present at its 
meetings. Wilkoff, the president
of the club and Carnegie’s delegate 
to the Yale Air Conference, pre­
sented the members with an out­
line of his proposed program at 
the" Convention and explained com­
pletely the plans for the future 
activities of the newly formed 
Flying Club. The Flying Club has 
causecKmuch enthusiasm among the
students who are sincerely interest- I 10:30 A. M.—Reunion Classes
cd in the promotion of aeronautics place in the • floor of the
at Carnegie. lo have a Carnegie i ministration Building briii
plane will be the realization of its plates impressed with their c^a
dreams. numerals.
12:00 M.
nasi um.
1:00 P. M.—Buffet Luncheon in I 
Field House (Athletic Quarter, 
Dr. Baker’s Luncheon for • t 
Class of 1908, in his office.
2:30 P. M.—Inspection of Buildih, 
and Grounds.
3:30 P. M.—Open House by |( t? 
Administration and Faculty.
7:00 P. M.—Cabaret Dinner Di 
at Webster Hall.
On Saturday, October 17:
peoplethis andattention
other lands by contributing Car­
negie news to Y. M. (^.'A. publica­
tions. Also by appointing its com­
mitteemen to local, state and na­
tional Y. M. C. A.-organizations.
It serves as an agency uniting 
members of faculty in promotion 
of activities outside the class room.
As a factor in developing well- 
rounded Carnegie men by:
Enlisting students in service to 
their fellows.
As camp leaders at Camp Porter, 
Seniors as counsellors to freshmen 
Introducing the members of the 
student body to the churches of 
their choice regardless of creed.
Experience in organization and 
promotion of philanthropic enter­
prises such as our annual member­
ship enrollment.
Sending large delegations to the 
Eaglesmere Conference.
PLANNING SECOND ISSUE OF CARNEGIE QUARTERLY
(Continued from Page One)
the Quarterly falls entirely into 
the hands of interested students 
who, however, have no authority 
to proceed with plans.
Furthermore, among certain 
groups a fear exists that thd maga-. 
zinc will not be a financial success. 
Although almost every copy cf 
the first issue was sold, some stu­
dents feci that curiosity, rather 
than a decp-scatcd desire for a | 
literary magazine, was the reason j 
for the quick sale of the first issue. 
In order to settle these doubts and 
thus cither make possible or dis­
courage the attempt to revive the 
“Quarterly.” the opinion of stu­
dents in all four colleges is earnest­
ly solicited by the Tartan.
The meetings of the Aviation Club j 
have been permanently changed 
from Tuesday evening to Monday 
evening of every other week.
By the way, did you see the pro- j 
pellcr suspended in the main cor­
ridor of Administration Hall last 
week? It was manufactured at 
Carnegie during the World war 
for service in France; It is a re­
minder of the days when Langley 
Laboratory was filled with aero-
Class Reunions ¦& 
Luncheons, p
1:00-P. M.—Football, Pitt and Cr 
negie Freshman game at Si 
d.ium..
2:30 P. M.—Football, Fitt and C; 
ncgie (Varsity game).
6:00 P. M.—Ofren House at 
Fraternities. -. ¦ 1
8:30 P. M.—Foatball Dance in ) 
Union.
’ A -secretary has been appohi 
from* each of the returning classplanes many of which wmild often Thcsc secrctaries h.lvc scnl cattls 
be wheeled out to the- lawn in au alumni asking about their retvfront of Arts School for exhibition, _________
there to roar in indignation ar j PROGRAM
being kept from “over there.” ^ \ /________________ I Friday, October 26
H :00 A. M.—Alumni Federal 
Meeting in Trophy Room, p 
nasium. -.. j >
1:00 P M.—Buffet Luncheon in ti 
Field House '[Athletic Quarters 
'2:30 P. M.—Inspection of Building 
and Grounds.
3:30 P. M.—Open House by tlf 
Administration and Faculty.
7:00 P. M.—Biggest Alumni Din 
ncr ever held under one ten; 
, Dancing,and Cabaret. i • ¦/\ 
8:30 P. M.—Campus Sdngs. ,
1:00 A. M.—Call it a day and rcj 
up for the Football • Game tl 
next day.
Saturday, October 27 
10:30 A. M.—Reunion Classes w' 
place in the floor of the Ccnti 
Building bronze prates, Impress/ 
with their class numerals.
12:00 M. — Class Reunions ai 
Luncheons,
1:00 P. M.—Football. Pilt and Ca 
ncgic Tech Freshman Game; 
Stadium. • '
2:30 P. M.—Football. Pitt and C;
ncgie Tech (Varsity Game); 
6:00 P M.—Open House at all Fi 
ternities.
8:30 P. M.—Football Dance in’ I 
Union.
Sunday, Octobcr 28 '
At Home, All Fraternities-
!: Clans May Help Replace 
Needed Kiltie Uniforms1
(Continued from Page 1)'
this year's freshmen who will re­
ceive valuable experience to form 
the nucleus for next year’s band. 
Eligibility to wear a uniform will 
be based on the individual’s at­
tendance record, willingness to 
work, and ability. The competitive 
basis makes it highly advisable for 
a freshman to come out for the 
band in his first vcar, bccausc if 
he stays- with the band throughout 
this year he will have first call 
next year due to his experience 
and attendance record. The band 
is also an activity that leads to a 
silver key for two years service, 
and a gold key for four years, 
therefore if there arc any freshmen 
who have not reported they should 
report next Thursday evening at 
7:30 in the Union.
Last Thursday evening taxis took 
the Kilties to. the student recep­
tion at the Christ M. E. Church. 
After the Kilties furnished some 
musical entertainment they demon­
strated that the Kiltie uniforms had 
lo?t none of their drawing power 
with the weaker sex.
