Volume 88. Issue 11THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania15 Novefnber 1993
Trustees approve demolition
Razing of Skibo will begin $45.5 million project
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The Board ofTrustees has voted unani­
mously to approve the construction of 
the long-awaited University Center
(UC).
At last Monday’s meeting, the board 
dso decided to delay the demolition of 
Skibo Hall until after the University’s 
commencement and graduation ceremo­
nies on May 15.
“Our plans are to raze Skibo right 
after graduation,” said University Presi­
dent Robert Mehrabian. Mehrabian said 
that the delay would cause less disrup­
tion to student activities and enable the 
demolition site to be more secure than if 
the razing took place during the spring 
semester.
The University Center project is one of 
i number of additions to the campus 
that were promised in 1986 at the start 
of the Carnegie Campaign fund-raising 
project. The campaign raised $200 mil­
lion from 1986 to 1991. The additions 
included the Posner Hall wing of GSIA, 
the $15 million Electric Materials Build­
ing, to be constructed behind Ham- 
erschlag Hall, and the proposed $14 mil­
lion Performing Arts Center.
Mehrabian said that the trustees felt 
strongly that the 1986 pledge to con­
struct the University Center should be 
kept.
The total cost of the University Center 
s to be $45.5 million. The University
has raised $18 million through cash do­
nation, pledges, and bequests. In addi­
tion, the trustees have extended a $20 
million line of credit to the project, based 
on the University’s endowment. The 
endowment has a value of $404 million', 
and the trustees are confident that fu­
ture fund-raising would replace any 
money taken from the debt reserves to 
finance construction.
Mehrabian said that in the interim 
$7.5 million needs to be raised. “We are 
still hopeful that our major donor will 
make a commitment which will satisfy 
the remainder,” he said.
“We do want to start a new campaign, 
which we want to make sure is directed 
towards the endowment,” said Meh­
rabian.
Thomas McConomy, chair ofthe board 
of trustees, as well as the president and 
chief executive officer of Consolidation 
Coal Company, said that there was never 
a question of if the UC project would 
proceed, but when.
“It’s been on the agenda for quite some 
period of time,” said McConomy. “The 
decision was finally reached that we 
should go ahead.”
The delays ofthe project were a result 
of uncertainties in the funding mecha­
nism, said McConomy, but the means of 
proceeding on the UC is now in place.
Student organizations currently 
housed in Skibo will be relocated to the 
former Naval Reserve Center on Forbes 
Avenue. “We have an agreement with
the Navy to acquire it,” said Jeffrey 
Bolton, assistant vice president for plan­
ning and budget. Bolton said that the 
University hopes to take possession of 
the Naval Center in mid-December.
“Basically, the Navy is removing the 
asbestos from the building,” said Bolton. 
“We wanted to wait until they were done 
with that.” The purchase of the Naval 
Center is expected to cost $2.5 million.
After the acquisition, said Bolton, reno­
vations will have to be completed to 
bring the building into compliance with 
the Americans with Disabilities Act 
(ADA). He said the renovations would 
begin immediately following acquisition 
and would last approximately 60 days.
“There’s a significant amount of work 
that needs to be done on the restroom 
facilities,” said Bolton, “both in terms of 
accessibility and in upgrading the fix­
tures for the new use of the building.” In 
addition, Bolton said access ramps will 
need to be constructed into public areas.
“We have developed a renovation plan 
for the [Navy] building,” said Kevin 
Lamb, director ofplanningservices. “The 
construction contracts have been bid 
out.”
“We see the building in two time 
frames,” said Lamb, “first, for the three 
years that the University Center is ber 
ing constructed; that is, when most of 
the residents of Skibo will be housed in 
the Naval Center.”
The second time frame, said Lamb, is 
Please see SKIBO, page 5.
Board declares elections Invalid
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan News Editor
Despite the 917 votes cast for Stu­
dent Senators in elections last week, 
the Elections Board’s vote on Friday to 
validate the results of the election 
failed by a vote of 0-5-4. According to 
David Martin, chair of the Elections 
Board, five complaints were received 
about a list of write-in candidates, 
specifically listingthe names of write- 
in candidates, that was posted at the 
ballot box.
According to the election results, 
graduate students would have been 
elected to fill vacant Student Senate 
seats in almost every college. Martin 
said the Elections Board will not close 
the elections until the beginning of 
next semester, when another election 
will be held.
“It was decided that the write-in 
sheet may have had undue effects on 
the results of the elections,” said Mar­
tin in his announcement. “Anyone 
whose name was listed had a greater 
chance of getting a vote than those 
whose names were not.”
According to the Election Board 
rules, “No campaigning, posters, or 
other visible or audible advertising 
relating to the election will be con­
ducted within 30 feet of the polls.”
Martin said that the 14 percent voter 
turnout was good considering that it 
wasn’t an election for Student Gov­
ernment President. Martin said, “Last 
year’s Elections Board chair, alum 
Paul Sollimo, said it was OK to list 
write-in candidates. I thought it was 
OK, but as the list grew, one member. 
of the board listed all the candidates.
I didn’t object, but I should have. The 
list of write-in candidates invalidated 
the elections.”
Erik Altmann, a doctoral student in 
computer science, was one of the 
people who submitted a complaint to 
the Elections Board. Altmann said, 
“Political advertising is frequently 
little more than names printed on a 
sign stuck in the ground. In this case, 
the sign was smaller and right there 
on the table."
Altmann said that the candidates 
appeared “certified,” and that “the 
petitioning procedure for getting on 
the ballot is largely circumvented, 
since the lucky write-ins get the ad­
vantage of name-recognition without 
having to file petitions.”
“Finally, I heard that someone 
circled and labeled the grads on the 
list,” said Altmann. “If this is true, 
then suddenly we have a collusion of 
the Elections Board with a partisan 
Please see ELECTIONS, page 3.
ROTC denied representation
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
After an hour long debate that 
drifted from obscure technical 
points about ROTC faculty pay, 
to more concrete examples of how 
ROTC students’ academic 
freedom might be limited, the 
Carnegie Mellon Faculty Senate 
last week overwhelmingly voted 
to deny ROTC representation on 
the faculty governing 
body.
If the Faculty Sen­
ate had given ROTC 
a voting seat, the offi­
cial recognition of 
ROTC as a legitimate 
part of the academic 
community would 
have dealt a sore blow
toROTC’s opponents, -----------
who claim the mili- BliiiiSsSHl! 
tary training organization should 
be lacked off campus because it 
discriminates against gays, les­
bians, and bisexuals.
Last Thursday’s vote to approve 
the bylaws amendment granting 
ROTC membership in Faculty 
Senate was 4-27, according to 
unofficial records.
Captain Joseph Mazza, the 
commanding officer of CMU’s 
Naval ROTC unit, says he wanted
helped him persuade the univer­
sity that his students should re­
ceive academic credit for military 
courses.
“It was tied into our efforts to 
get our courses accredited," said 
Mazza. “If I knew this was going 
to be another referendum on the 
Department of Defense’s [DoD] 
policy on homosexuals, I would 
never have raised this.”
Mazza said he thought the pro­
“Why should we reward ROTC? 
Why should we give them spe­
cial rights?”
— Tim Saternow, 
drama professor
posal to amend the Faculty Sen­
ate bylaws was “a purely techni­
cal matter,” because the Navy’s 
contract with the university al­
ready grants ROTC instructors 
academic ranks of professor or 
lower.
However, some faculty mem­
bers who spoke against the pro­
posed bylaws change claim that 
recognizing ROTC on Faculty 
Senate would have ignored the 
ROTC to be represented on Fac- military’s discriminatory policies 
ulty Senate because it would have and further contradicted the
university’s statement of,-,assur­
ance that prohibits discrimina­
tion on the basis of sexual prefer­
ence.
“Carnegie Mellon discriminates 
against gays and lesbians by hav­
ing ROTC on campus. Not all 
these classes are open to gays 
and lesbians, which goes against 
the statement of assurance,” said 
Tim Saternow, drama professor. 
“Why should we reward ROTC?
Why should we give 
them special rights?” 
Saternow says he 
was encouraged by 
the Faculty Senate’s 
vote. “I think this 
vote is very positive 
and very exciting. 
It’s a direct indica­
tion from the Faculty
----------- Senate of how they
¦¦*¦¦¦¦ feel about ROTC be­
ing on campus,” said Saternow.
The landslide vote to deny 
ROTC representation on Faculty 
Senate caught a few of the 
amendment’s opponents by sur­
prise. Chris Newman, a Comput­
ing Services staff programmer, 
says he thought more faculty 
members would have voted for 
the amendment.
“I think one of the turning 
points of the meeting was when 
Donna [Riley] made a speech 
Please see ROTC, page 3
SDC considers buying new projector
InsideRobert Weiss’ “Men-O-Paas” was part of last week’s exhibit at 
Forbes Gallery. For more Information, see page LLO.
Classifieds...........................13
Comics.......................................L5 • Greeks entertain campus with
Diversions................................L9 annual Mr. Fraternity contest.
Peatures...................................LI See page LI
Forum.....................................6
Sports.11 , • Cheez Doodles become art in
Calendar................................L14 a local gallery.
Vox Populi.............................L14 See page L9
• The pope’s not so infallible 
after all, says columnist.
See page 7
• The Tartans defeat Case West­
ern 56-0 in an emotional game.
See page 11
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
The Student Dormitory Council (SDC) received 
$28,000 from AT&T's ACUS long-distance service 
because of accidentally overcharging students. SDC 
is considering using the money to buy a 35mm 
projector and a Dolby Surround Sound System for 
watching movies in Doherty Hall 2210.
The idea was proposed by Matt White, a sopho­
more computer science student and chair of the 
SDC Films Committee. White has been trying to 
find out if his idea is acceptable to the student 
population.
In this week’s edition of the Student Dormitory 
Chronicles, a survey will be printed asking stu­
dents' opinions on how they feel the money should 
be used. The projector issue will be an alternative.
Two years ago, AT&T accidentally overcharged 
students about three percent extra on their ACUS 
bills. The total amount came to be over $35,000. 
“We didn’t want it,” said White. “Our number one 
priority was to get the money back to who it 
belonged to.”
AT&T said that they did not have the records to 
return the money to the right people and SDC 
didn’t have the man-power to perform such a 
task.
It was then determined that, the best way to 
distribute the money fairly was to divide it among 
SDC, Greek Council, and Panhellenic Council in
proportion to the amount of overcharged students 
living in those facilities at the time. At a meeting 
between the heads of all three organizations, this 
method of distribution was decided and agreed to.
Housing recommended that SDC use the funds 
for floor programming, which usually means buy­
ing pizza for the dorms. “It seems like a bad idea to 
spend $28,000 for pizza,” said White.
What is unclear at this point is how the new 
projector would affect Thursday and Saturday night 
films at DH 2210. They are typically older films, 
available only on 16mm film.
Matt Adler, AB chair, said that he’s not sure 
exactly what will happen to them yet.
“They can’t just put a 35mm projector in there,” 
said Adler. “We’ll have to work something out.” 
White has been receiving positive feedback op 
his idea, “I think the projector is a valid expense;” 
said Larson. “It affects the wide majority of peoplji 
who will benefit from it at some point.”
If the proposal is passed, construction in Doherty 
could begin in late December and the projectors 
could be rolling by the spring semester.
“The thing I don’t think they realize is that they 
just want to spend this $25,000 as soon as pas,- 
sible,” said Adler, “but I don’t think the projector 
can be here by next semester.”
“There’s still just too much to go over,” said 
Adler.
[Ed. Note: Tartan Assistant News Editor Jason 
Togyer contributed to this article.]

---------------------------------------------------

¡2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993THIS JUST IN
State’s delegates are 
hostile to trade pact
WASHINGTON, November 14 (AP) 
—As President Bill Clinton implores 
and cajoles undecided lawmakers to 
support the North American Free 
Trade Agreement (NAFTA), he prob­
ably won’t be spending much time 
with Democrats in the Pennsylvania 
delegation.
All but one of his 11 fellow party 
members from the state are commit­
ted — against the trade pact.
Ironically, Clinton may find a more 
sympathetic ear among Pennsylva­
nia Republicans as the House moves 
. toward the climatic NAFTA vote this 
week.
Seven of the state’s 10 GOP mem­
bers are wavering, and the Republi­
can leadership in Congress is solidly 
behind the trade deal.
The agreement goes to the House 
floor for a vote Wednesday, and re-
ous lobbying from both sides, includ­
ing campaign-style television commer­
cials.
If approved, the three-nation agree­
ment would create, over 15 years, the 
world’s largest free-trade zone, from 
the Yukon to the Yucatan.
While approval in the Senate is ex­
pected, the 435-member House has 
become the decisive battleground. A 
win in the House will send the pack­
age back to the Senate; if the House 
rejects it, the pact is dead.
In Pennsylvania, a state hard-hit by 
the loss of heavy industry, union cards 
were once as commonplace as drivers’ 
licenses. The presence of organized 
labor in the state is proving a signifi­
cant factor.
Members of both parties have relied 
on labor support in their campaigns 
and are under heavy pressure to vote
. centweekshavebeenmarkedbyfuri- against the deal.
Congress set to vote 
on NAFTA Wednesday
WASHINGTON, November 14 (AP)
— President Bill Clinton is pushing 
hard for the last votes he still needs 
for House approval of the North Ameri­
can Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), 
saying its defeat would start a “re­
treat into a shell of protectionism.”
The House vote is scheduled for 
Wednesday, and the White House is 
¦expected to work almost non-stop until 
then to twist the undecided arms.
Trade Representative Mickey 
Kantor says he knows why some mem­
bers of Congress hesitate backing the 
NAFTA, because change isn’t easy. 
Kantor says the Clinton administra- 
tionis close to having enough votes in
the House for passage. He says the 
administration and its opponents are 
about even and that neither has a 
majority.
KantortoldNBC-TV’sMeeiifefVess 
that “by Wednesday, we’ll have it.” He 
says the NAFTA will help the U.S. 
compete in the global economy.
Kantor says that he believes break­
ing down barriers to exports and open 
markets is vital.
But Congressman David Bonior (D., 
Mich.) says anti-NAFTA forces have 
enough votes to win. He says Ameri­
cans are against it and are calling 
their lawmakers to oppose what he 
calls “a bad deal for workers.”
Report claims CIA’s drug 
plan was seriously flawed
NEW YORK CITY, November 14 
(AP) — A new report says a Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA) plan to help 
fight the war on drugs in Haiti went 
seriously awry.
The New York Times reports the 
agency created an intelligence ser­
vice in Haiti to fight drug trafficking. 
•But the paper claims that senior mem­
bers of the unit went into the drug 
business themselves.
The paper also reports the officers
committed acts of political terror, in­
cluding interrogations and torture, 
against supporters of Haiti’s first 
democratically elected president, Jean- 
Bertrand Aristide.
The Times says last year, members 
of the unit also threatened to kill the 
local chief of the U.S. Drug Enforce­
ment Administration (DEA).
The paper says the CIA cut its ties to 
the organization shortly after the 1991 
military coup against Aristide.
i 111!
Two charged in 
NYC armored car 
depot holdup
NEW YORK CITY, November 14 (AP)
— Two men have been arraigned in 
connection with one of the biggest ar­
mored car heists in U.S. history.
Samuel Millar is being held without 
bail, while bond for the Reverend Patrick 
Moloney has been set at $1 million.
The two were arrested Friday in New 
York City after Federal Bureau of Inves­
tigation (FBI) agents found millions of 
dollars in cash stashed in an apartment 
the two men had been seen visiting.
The money came from last Januaiys 
armored car depot robbery, which net­
ted nearly $7.5 million. Authorities are 
investigating whether the money was 
going to support the Irish Republican 
Army (IRA).
The FBI says about half of the stolen 
money remains missing.
Lawyers for the two men deny their 
clients are linked to the IRA.
A retired Rochester, New York police 
detective was also arrested Friday in 
connection with the robbery.
German war 
memorial sparks 
angry protests
BERLIN, November 14 (AP) — Ger­
many is dedicating a national war me­
morial today that many people reject.
The bronze statue shows a grieving 
woman holding a son killed in war. At 
the foot of the statue is an urn bearing 
the ashes of an unknown soldier, a resis­
tance fighter from World War II, and a 
Nazi death camp victim.
Germany’s political leaders say the 
monument in Berlin is dedicated simply 
to all victims of war and tyranny.
But Jewish groups say the shrine does 
not adequately separate war victims from 
their Nazi persecutors. Berlin’s Jewish 
community boycotted today’s ceremony, 
as did leftists and Nazi victims’ groups.
Neo-Nazis planned alarge demonstra­
tion at a war cemetery near Berlin, but 
the protest was banned. Still, nearly 100 
right-wing extremists were arrested as 
they tried to stage a rally glorifying Nazi 
exploits.
Jet crashes in 
western China
HONG KONG, November 14 (AP)—A 
Chinese news agency puts the death toll 
at 11 from the crash of a Chinese airliner 
in western China.
The China News Service says 24 people 
are reported missing and 60 are hurt 
following yesterday’s crash in a field
near the airport in Urumqi.
The news agency’s report differs 
slightly from that of a Hong Kong news­
paper, Wen Wei Po, which says 12 people 
were killed.
The plane crashed while attempting 
to land. The newspaper says there was 
heavy snow at the time but the news 
agency didn’t report on the weather con­
ditions.
The China News Service says two Ital­
ians were among the survivors.
Puerto Ricans 
vote on future of 
island’s status
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico, November 
14 (AP) — Turnout is expected to be 
heavy for today’s vote in Puerto Rico on 
whether to seek statehood.
The vote isn’t binding, but Governor 
Pedro Rossello says if statehood wins, 
he’ll formally petition the U.S. Congress 
for admission to the union.
About 70 percent of Puerto Rico’s 2.3 
million voters are expected to cast bal­
lots.
Voters have three options — state­
hood, independence, orremainingaU.S. 
commonwealth. It’s the first such vote in 
26 years.
If voters choose statehood, the move 
could be a first step toward the island’s 
becoming the 51st state. Supporters of 
statehood have campaigned vigorously, 
telling voters the option would give the 
island two U.S. senators and at least six 
representatives in the House.
But, those who want to maintain com­
monwealth status say that option offers 
the best of both worlds by allowing them 
to keep their U.S. citizenship and au­
tonomy from Washington.
One man says he’s voting for state­
hood. Security guard Ismael Martinez 
says statehood offers more security for 
Puerto Ricans and more benefits.
Polls show statehood and common­
wealth status running neck-and-neck. 
Independence isn’t expected to gain more 
than six percent of the vote.
Hospital faces 
lawsuit in death 
of toddler
PITTSBURGH, November 13 (AP) — 
Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh is be­
ing sued in connection with the death of 
a three-year-old transplant recipient 
earlier this year.
Zackery Gutierrez died on August 26, 
two days after nearly two tablespoons of 
table salt were mistakenly put in a tube 
connected to his intestine. That’s sev­
eral times more than the normal dose.
Now, his parents are asking for dam­
ages in excess of $25,000 in a suit filed
against the hospital Friday.
The order had been written by , 
physician’s assistant and co-signed bj^ 
transplant surgeon, who later said Ks 
had not read it.
Also named in the suit are the 
physician’s assistant, the doctor, aiij 
the nurse who added the salt.
Guiterrez was born with a conditii 
known as short-gut syndrome that li 
him unable to digest food. He had rj. 
ceived a new liver and intestines atthe 
hospital on June 2 and was discharge 
August 10.
He was readmitted August 23 afte, 
showing signs of dehydration, and haj 
been nearing the end of his stay whej 
the dose of salt was given.
Children’s Hospital officials decline!) 
to comment on the suit.
High court judge 
faces pressure 
to resign
HARRISBURG, Penn., November 13 
(AP) — As if court prosecution and poi 
sible impeachment weren’t enough, 
many lawyers and politicians are sug. 
gesting that Supreme Court Justice Rolf 
Larsen resign forthwith.
Attorney General Ernie Preate, Jrl, 
who launched a statewide grand jury 
probe that issued a scathing report about 
Larsen’s conduct, said the conclusion 
that the justice must be removed was 
“inescapable.”
The Pennsylvania Bar Association al$ 
has called for Larsen’s immediate resig­
nation, while Governor Robert Casfy 
saidit was something that Larsen should 
certainly consider.
Larsen for now has refused to resign. 
He was suspended October 28 by his 
colleagues following criminal charges 
that he illegally used his court employ­
ees to obtain prescription tranquilizers. 
That case is pending in Allegheny County 
Common Pleas Court.
The House is considering impeach­
ment, and the Senate is gearing up fora 
possible trial. Conduct board officials 
would not comment, other than to say 
they received a copy of the report.
Larsen’s attorney, William Cos- 
topoulos, said the demands that his cli­
ent resign are premature because he has 
not yet been afforded a full hearing on 
the charges or on the report.
News briefs courtesy 
The Associated Press
AP News Briefs supplied by 
WRCT-FM Radio
Layout by 
Jason Togyer
Celebrate Tradition 
a Balfour 
Class Ring!
15NNovo eoe5fnob r93 N9bB 9 NnyoBneo JAo3 BAoSOfo 
TfobofGoY n3 9 Balfour Class Ring. ET5fBbR 9r9YoenrbR 
YovfoobR So9fb 5y vf9Yh9Bn53R 93Y rhbB5e brA55N Yobnv3b 
r93 9NN ao r9TBhfoY n3 S5hf Balfour Class Ring.dd 9 
Bf9YnBn53 5y ouroNNo3ro bn3ro stis­
Monday & Tuesday
November 22nd & 23rd 
10:00 - 3:00 
Mon. - Baker Hall 
Tues. - Carnegie Shoppe 
$35.00 Deposit
Balfour,No one remembers insomne ways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 19933
Write-in list invalidates vote
ELECTIONS, from page 1
interest to identify to potential voters 
those candidates who support that in­
terest.”
Tim Mallo, a doctorate student in 
chemical engineering, wouldhave been 
elected a Senator from CIT. He said 
that no graduate students broke any of 
the Senate election rules. He said, 
“There may have been some regret­
table decisions by the ac­
tual Senate Election Board 
concerning write-in candi­
dates, but since the Elec­
tion Board made these de­
cisions and was fully aware 
of the consequences, it 
would be silly for the board 
to invalidate the election 
based on their own ac­
tions.”
Martin, however, said 
that he knew of at least 12 candidates 
who violated the Election Board’s rule 
against campaigning near the voting 
booth.
Lara Wolfson, GSO president, also 
said that none of the graduate stu­
dents were in violation of elections 
rules. “The reason why the election 
was invalidated was because the Elec­
tions Board decided to do a write-in 
list.”
Wolfson said that she was asked by 
a member of the Elections Board for a 
list of names of students who were 
going to have a write-in campaign. She 
said she was simply following their 
orders.
Wolfson also said that last year, be­
fore the Bylaws of the Student Body 
were changed, no elected member of 
Senate was permitted to serve on the 
Elections Board. “Now,” said Wolfson, 
“people on Senate decide who gets on 
Senate.”
Desmond O’Connor, a first-year mas­
ters student in GSIA, is currently fill­
ing a GSIA Senator vacancy. He said
"A wonder if the elections would 
have been invalidated if under­
graduates were elected
— Lara Wolfson, 
GSO president
he didn’t think it was right for the 
elections to be invalidated also, calling 
it “cynical politics.”
“The Elections Board decided that 
because there was a list of write-in 
candidates, people might have voted a 
different way,” said O’Connor. “That’s 
the purpose of a write-in campaign.
There is nothing wrong with a write-in 
candidate winning.”
GSO was the key organization that 
involved graduate students with Stu­
dent Senate. Wolfson said, “Basically, 
there is not concern of graduate repre­
sentation on Student Senate. Gradu­
ates found out for the first time that 
they could be involved with Senate.” Martin.
Before the invalidation of the elec­
tions, “[Graduate students] were ex­
cited about what happened,” said 
Wolfson. “Theyjust want what is right­
fully theirs. They did what they felt 
was necessary.”
According to Wolfson, sketches of a 
plan to restructure Student Govern­
ment have been drafted. Student Gov­
ernment President David Wolpert will
_________ announce the formation of a
special committee to work 
on this at this Tuesday’s 
meeting. Wolfson said that 
the original timeline was the 
presentation of the resolu­
tion on November 30 and 
discussion about the resolu­
tion in the first two Senate 
meetings of the spring se- 
mester.
Also, a motion to override 
the President’s veto of the GSO Activi­
ties Fee resolution will be made on 
Tuesday.
“[Senate] complains about not earn­
ing respect from the student body, and 
[then] this happens,” said O’Connor. 
“All four GSIA Senators feel that they 
want to work with undergraduates 
with decision making and conflict 
management.”
“I can’t believe [the Elections Board] 
is overturning their own decision,” said 
Wolfson. “I wonder if elections would 
have been invalidated if undergradu­
ates were elected.”
“I didn’t want this to happen,” said
WRCT faces change!
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Some changes are in store for WRCT- 
FM in the near future.
First, the station is scheduled to go off 
the air today and tomorrow for assembly 
of its new antenna on the roof of Warner 
Hall. When the new antenna is in opera­
tion, it will boost the station’s current 
100 watt output to 1750 watts in most 
areas around Pittsburgh.
Second, the station does not yet know 
where it will be located once Skibo Hall 
is demolished to make way for the new 
University Center.
JasonMilletary, station manager, said 
that the work on the antenna should be 
finished by Wednesday. “We have to go 
off the air Monday and Tuesday, and 
tentatively Wednesday,” said Milletary.
The government must approve the 
specifications of the new antenna before 
WRCT can begin using it, he said. “Pend­
ing approval by the FCC, we should be 
broadcasting at the new power in a couple 
of weeks.”
The future of the station’s studios is 
more uncertain. Currently, the station 
is located on the ground floor of Skibo 
with the other campus media organiza­
tions.
Erik Altmannis a member of the Space 
Allocation Board, which is overseeing 
the assignment of rooms in the former 
Naval Reserve Center to student orga­
nizations.
He said that he feels that the separa­
tion of WRCT from the other media 
outlets, including The Tartan, The 
Thistle, and the Student Union, will
hurt those involved.
WRCT may be forced into quarters iti 
the University Computing Center (UCCj, 
because the cost of renovations to the 
Naval Center to accommodate the sta­
tion may be prohibitive, said Altmannl
Milletary said that the station has 
investigated a number of possible sites.
“The problem with the Naval Center is 
that the cost would be too much,” he 
said.
Milletary said that renovations to 
make the proposed area suitable to 
WRCT’s needs could reach as high as 
$160,000. That kind of expense, he saidj, 
would mean “we’d have to use that as 
our permanent space, and we’d rather 
be back here in the University Center.?’
The station has investigated the use ojf 
space at WQED Communications oi^ 
Fifth Avenue, said Milletary, but th$ 
space available was too small.
In addition to the studios, administraj- 
tive, and broadcasting facilities, he said’, 
the station has a vinyl record collection 
of over 50,000 records as well as aii 
untold number of compact discs an4 
cassettes.
Milletary feels that the room offeree} 
to WRCT in UCC, B9, may be suitably 
for the station. However, the room is one 
of the ones that has been plagued b>r 
health and dust complaints in the build-; 
ing. It formerly housed a Computing! 
Services operations room.
The station will be responsible for lo-; 
eating new quarters, said Milletary.! 
Completion of the move, including re-: 
modeling of whatever area is finally cho-j 
sen and the moving to the new site, could; 
take up to a month.
Carnegie Mellon in BriefFaculty seat for ROTC denied
A Phi O begins locker 
cleaning, registration
If you haven’t registered your locker in Doherty 
or Porter Hall with Alpha Phi Omega, don’t be 
surprised if you find your lock cut.
Jeff Brown, locker registration project chair for 
the fraternity, said that the project is being run by 
A Phi O under the authority of Campus Police and 
that the Office of Student Affairs has also been 
informed. There is no fee to register your locker.
“We do it periodically because students leave 
their junk in the lockers, and then they graduate 
and leave it there,” said Brown. He said that this 
year they have found personal items in lockers that 
have been there for over a year.
Brown said that the locker clean-up and regis­
tration is important because it helps to free up 
! lockers that are no longer being used.
“If someone finds that their lock is cut, they 
¡should come to the APhi O office, Skibo 54, and tell 
|us their locker number and the contents of the 
locker so that we can give them their stuff,” said
Brown. The belongings are being stored in plastic 
bags for safekeeping.
Deadline extended 
for document release
The Department of Defense (DoD) Inspector 
General’s (IG) office has granted Carnegie Mellon 
University a one-month extension of the deadline 
to produce records covering seven years of defense 
research. The deadline was to have been last Fri­
day, but it was extended to December 13.
The University has asked the IG to narrow the 
scope of the investigation. The inquiry is appar­
ently focusing on suspected overcharging by CMU 
of the DoD for research. The DoD, however, has 
thus far refused to comment.
University President Robert Mehrabian told the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that CMU has contracted 
with the accounting firm of KPMG Peat Marwick 
to provide assistance analyzing and compiling the 
records.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
ROTC, from page 1
pointing out a specific case: If a gay midshipman 
chose to take a human sexuality course, he wouldn’t 
be able to speak from personal experience. That 
made the academic freedom issue very concrete,” 
said Newman.
Newman is glad the amendment didn’t pass. He 
believes if ROTC has received recognition, “the 
results would have been disastrous.”
According to Newman, ROTC should change its 
policies to avoid conflicting with the university’s 
policies if the organization wants to stay on cam­
pus.
“I think that the university shouldn’t compro­
mise its principles,” said Newman.
Juan Schaffer, a math professor who raised a
technicality that nearly invalidated the ROTC; 
amendment without further debate, says he doesn't \ 
agree with those who say ROTC should be banned 
from campus.
“I don’t think that it resolves the problem ... It j 
may be that ROTC needs to be changed entirely.j 
But this in-or-out thing troubles me,” said Schaffer. 
“I think that’s wrong in that it puts too narrow a j 
focus on the issue.”
ANROTC midshipman, John Cardillo, says that j 
even though the statement of assurance and the | 
DoD’s policy may be in conflict, ROTC should have j 
voting rights. “We represent a significant portion '¦ 
of the undergraduate population,” said the junior ¦» 
history major, “and we deserve representation on • 
Faculty Senate.”
Correction...
The story “GSIA motivates fourth-grade students to stay in school” [The Tartan, 1 November 
1993] was not printed in its entirety. The Tartan apologizes to GSIA.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, contact Tartan Editor- 
in-Chief Brendan McFeely at x8-2111, or write him in care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE
Meeting of 9 November 1993
Roll was taken at 7 pm. Meet­
ing was called to order at 7:11
; Senators Present: Albert 
: (CFA), Baron (GSIA), Calhoon 
(GSIA), Cameron (CIT), Carter 
;(CIT), Cohen (SCS), DeMasi 
: (MCS), DeRoss (MCS), Erives (M. 
lat L.), Frey (CFA), Gach (CFA), 
¡Gannon (MCS), Goldman (H& 
;SS), Gonzalez (MCS), Grant 
; (Heinz), Holzman (CIT), Jacobson 
:<GSIA), Kim (CFA), King (IM), 
;Kwon(CIT), Langer (H&SS), 
: McCullagh(Misc.), Morrow (CIT), 
;Motley (CIT), O’Connor (GSIA), 
Ortega (CIT), Sawyer-Villers 
l<®), Singh (CFA), Trexel (IM), 
I Turks (Heinz), Wallhausen 
¡<H&SS), Wang (CIT), White 
•(H&SS).
Senators Absent: Higuchi 
¡(H&SS), Shah (M. at L.).
Approval of the Minutes:
Accepted.
Audience Participation:
''aria Ebling, a graduate com- 
Wter science major, encouraged 
enate to separate graduate and 
Undergraduate Activities Fee
®oney.
Dave Martin, Elections Board
chair, informed Senate that elec­
tions are going well, and that 
there has been an eight percent 
turnout so far.
Michael Loomis, a GSIA stu­
dent, urged Senate to think of the 
Activities Fee as money for the 
whole campus community, and 
not to override the veto.
David Wagner, a GSIA student, 
expressed disappointment in the 
President’s veto. He feels that 
the graduate community is dif­
ferent from the undergraduate 
community, and urged Senate to 
reconsider the split.
Erik Altmann, a graduate com­
puter science student, spoke 
about the mishandling of the pro­
cess of the Activities Fee split.
Special Business:
1. Special Allocation—$400 to 
the Korean Club for a cultural 
event in March. This passed.
2. Special Allocation— $100 to 
the Celtic Society to rectify a situ­
ation in which they had purchased 
books and didn’t pay for them by 
the time their budget was zeroed 
at the end of the semester.
Ex-Officio Reports:
AB (Matt Adler): Films this 
week are: Thursday, Trust', Fri­
day, Menace to Society; Sunday, 
The Undead. Upcoming Coffee­
house event is Saturday, Novem­
ber 19 — comedian. We are plan­
ning spring events now. Later in 
spring, AB Tech may be conduct­
ing acoustical experiments onthe
windows of Skibo Ballroom, test­
ing for weak and eroding seals, 
etc.
SDC (Jonmichael Chew): 
Movie on Saturday is The Man 
Without a Face at 6, 8:10, 10:20 
pm, and 12:30 am. We will be 
putting out an SDC newsletter 
this week. It will contain the re­
sults of a survey regarding what 
SDC should do with the money 
that AT&T returned to them.
Greek Council (Demian 
J ohnston): The Panhellenic Coun­
cil had a formal at the Churchill 
Valley Country Club; it was loads 
of fun. Greek Council will be spon­
soring a Blood Drive in Novem­
ber. We will bring more details 
later; look for posters.
Greek Council is also planning 
on contributing support to SDC’s 
Sex Week. We are publishing a 
newsletter which will be avail­
able in Student Affairs.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): The next 
GSO meeting is Wednesday, De­
cember 1 at 5:30 pm in Skibo 12. 
We met November 3.
Upcoming events sponsored by 
GSO: November 11, GSSS semi­
nar: “Handling Stress through 
Goals, Relaxation and Fitness.” 
Contact kj26@andrew to regis­
ter. November 12, GSO Happy 
Hour at the Artery, 4:30-6:30 pm. 
November 13, CPR class, 10 am— 
1 pm in the Morewood Gardens 
Recreation Room; contact lara@ 
stat to register. There will be a
community service activity in De­
cember.
At the GSO meeting, we dis­
cussed the ROTC issue in Fac­
ulty Senate, passed the Activi­
ties Fee Resolution 29-0-2. The 
Bookstore Committee reported on 
their work to make recommenda­
tions about the bookstore. Their 
report will be issued in Decem­
ber. Send comments or input to 
sakella@cs.cmu.edu.
Faculty Senate (Michael 
Murphy): None.
Student Affairs (Pat Hamed): 
Last Lecture Series presents Ivan 
Itkin, the speaker of the House of 
the Commonwealth of Penn­
sylvania’s House of Representa­
tives. It will be November 12,12- 
1:30 pm.
President (Dave Wolpert): 
Skibo will be razed after gradua­
tion in1994. We thank Mehrabian 
for getting that approved. Senate 
must hold a special meeting to 
approve elections on Thursday, 
November 18 at 7 pm in the 
Wherrett Room. We must stop 
personal attacks on the Senate 
bboards.
Chair (Burt Holzman): Erives 
gave out the tentative 1995-6 
calendar and needs feedback con­
cerning the placement of Spring 
Break. The Board of Trustees 
approved the destruction of Skibo. 
Burt read Wolpert’s veto of the 
Activities Fee Resolution. He had
an informal vote of confidence 
which passed.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Dawn 
Wallhausen): We will have a 
meeting tomorrow at 4 pm in the 
Senate office. We met with Dr. 
Charles Lowry, University librar­
ian, about the library issue. We 
will consider a resolution about 
the plus/minus grading system 
next week.
Campus Affairs (Tony De- 
Ross): Our meetings are Tues­
days in the Tartan lounge at 6:30 
pm. We’re revivingthe Gym Com­
mittee created by Senate a few 
years ago. We’re trying to raise 
athletic awareness and increase 
attendance at games and have 
been meeting with men’s and 
women’s basketball coaches and 
the Greeks. We’ve put out a sur­
vey about a Squirrel Hill shuttle 
route. The Physical Plant is plan­
ning to handle work orders 
through email. We met with Pe­
ter Delaney about the President’s 
Environmental group. We’ve com­
piled responses for Food for 
Thought.
Funding and Recognition
(Crystal Trexel): We meet Tues­
days at 4:30 pm. Read your bud­
get packets for Sweepstakes and 
Spring Carnival; budget hearings 
are next week. We sent letters of 
reminder to heads of organiza­
tions about dues policy.
Public Relations (Jim Albert); j 
We might get T-shirts for Sena-;. 
tors. We will have a meeting to- ! 
morrow at 8:30 pm in the Senate ! 
office.
Human Resources (Moneet I 
Singh): Meetings are at 7 pm ! 
Wednesday in the Senate office. !
Old Business: None.
t
New Business:
1. Special Allocation: $253 for i 
Paintball Club passed.
Points of Discussion: Some j 
issues discussed were personal j 
attacks in discussion and on the j 
bboard, influencing others when j 
voting, and whether the new [ 
graduate Senators are one-issue j 
Senators. Motion to extend lim- i 
its of debate failed 12-7.
Announcements:
•There are vacancies in IM(1), ] 
CIT (1), SCS (1), and treasurer, j 
Deadline for petitions for Trea- j 
surer is November 14.
• Buggy rolls are over for the j 
semester.
• You can inform GSO through j 
the assocs.GSO bboard.
Meeting adjourned at 9:16 pm.
Submitted by ; 
NAOMI BERNER j 
Edited by i 
FRANK MICHELS I

---------------------------------------------------

HUfl|
m5n3 lnrf5b5yB 93Y aor5eo T9fB 5y 5hf p cgi- p yNN E
y5f rA93vn3v BAo J5fNYd wo o3r5hf9vo S5h B5 ouTfobb S5hf GnoJT5n3Bbd
U5hf nYo9bd U5hf outlook. wAnNo Bo9en3v JnBA 5BAof 
be9fB To5TNod py S5h NnCo BAo nYo9 5y J5fCn3v JAofo S5h(NN ao bhTT5fBoY 
JnBA JA9BoGof fob5hfrob S5h 3ooY B5 e9Co 9 r53BfnahBn53R B9NC B5 hbd U5h
J53(B yn3Y 9 cooler TN9ro B5 fo9Nn)o S5hf 5J3
Gnbn53 y5f bhrrobbd
Full-time and Summer Technical Interviews 
See Career Center for details 
15Nove Wednesday, January 26,1994
Resumes collected by Career Center November 11 -29,1993
Micmsoft
lnrf5b5yB nb 93 .Mh9N ’TT5fBh3nBS .eTN5Sof 93Y bhTT5fBb J5fCy5fro YnGofbnBSd
Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993
¡Late May demolition of Skibo planned
KIBO, from page 1
.¿fter the UC is complete and most of the offices in 
the Naval Center are vacated.
One of the groups that is expected to find a 
,ermanent home in the Naval Center is the 
’amegie Mellon Action Project (CMAP), which 
amb said is currently housed in “very temporary 
^rroundings” in Smith Hall.
' “They [CMAP] will be longer-term,” said Lamb. 
«After three years, we see longer-term use of the 
milding,” but what that will be isn’t entirely cer- 
ain-
Lamb said it’s possible that some academic sup­
port offices will be housed in the Naval Center, 
gome kind of office space for the libraries, for 
ixample,” he said.
In addition to the permanent renovations being 
lone for CMAP and the temporary quarters for 
Student organizations, Lamb said that the six 
ilassrooms in the building currently used by the 
University will be renovated.
! “We’re going to combine four of them into two 
arger rooms,” said Lamb. “They will become large 
ieminar style rooms, and the other two classrooms 
¡ will remain smaller lecture rooms.”
Director of Student Activities Anne Witchner 
lid the Space Allocation Board will be making 
decisions soon as to what student organizations 
fire given space in the Naval Center.
The Space Allocation Board includes members of 
itudent organizations, the Student Activities of- 
ice, and Student Senate. Witchner said that the 
¡board did not want to make a final decision on the 
¿¡locations until it knew for sure how much space 
iyould be available.
“Some space has opened up, and some space has 
closed,” said Witchner.
Student Senate Chair Burt Holzman, a junior 
mechanical engineering student and a member of 
¿he Space Allocation Board, said that the board’s 
[decision on which organizations receive offices in 
e Naval Center will likely come next semester. 
“We haven’t come to a final decision yet,” said 
olzman, “but we’re confident that we will make it 
before anyone has to move out of Skibo.”
; Holzman said that although the decision was to 
be ready by the Board of Trustees meeting, the
unexpected loss of two members from the Space 
Allocation Board hampered the process.
Holzman said that with the end of the semester 
and finals approaching rapidly, it is unlikely that 
any decisions will be reached before winter break.
A likely time for the board’s findings to be re­
leased could be around February, said Holzman, 
but the process will be completed between the time 
the Naval Center renovations are finished and 
commencement.
Another member of the board, Erik Altmann, a 
computer science doctoral student, says that he 
doesn’t think the move to the Naval Center will 
hurt student organizations.
“I think it’s a reasonably nice building,” said 
Altmann. “I don’t think it will kill us to move to the 
Navy building. There’s lots of room. There áre 
some very nice rooms in the building.”
Witchner said that the date of the move will be 
chosen with the needs of students in mind. “Out of 
convenience, we want organizations to be able to 
move while [their members are] here [on campus],” 
she said. Witchner said that if students prefer, the 
move could be accomplished gradually.
One thing that will be necessary, said Witchner, 
is finding rooms to replace the functions that Skibo 
Ballroom and the Wherrett Room currently per­
form. Witchner said that an information packet is 
currently being compiled that details meeting rooms 
off-campus.
“There’s not another Skibo Ballroom on cam­
pus,” she said, meaning that there’s no room on 
campus capable of fulfilling the room’s various 
functions, “but the information will be made avail­
able. We will get space off-campus as we need' it.”
For example, she said, assembly rooms such as 
those at Central Catholic High School on Fifth 
Avenue could be used “if we can obtain it when we 
need it.”
“We’re just going to have to be flexible,” said 
Witchner.
“It’s going to exciting to ‘make do’ for now,” said 
Witchner, “because just over the horizon there’s 
goingtobe anew building. [Student Activities] will 
help out as much as we can. We’ll just have to be 
creative.”
Altmann feels that the loss of the ballroom and
the Wherrett Room will hurt the campus, because 
there are currently no other rooms that can fulfill 
the needs they serve.
“[The UC has] been a goal since 1986,” said 
McConomy. It’s been long enough, he said, for 
"people [to have] entered the University as fresh­
man and graduated, and perhaps picked up a 
master’s degree or possibly their doctorate.” 
McConomy said that while the UC may not be 
ready for use until many current students have left 
the University, it will benefit future students at 
CMU. “At least it will be available for them to 
enjoy,” he said.
“I’m overjoyed that stùdents will finally get the 
University Center,” said Holzman. He said that he 
believed the continuing delays have been a head­
ache for the administration, as well. The uncer­
tainty meant that the University could not start a 
fund-raising campaign to fund the endowment, 
said Holzman. Now, he said, the “objectives of the 
last Carnegie Campaign have been filled.”
The commitment to the UC project means that 
the administration is emphasizing the needs of 
undergraduates over research, Holzman said. 
“Mehrabian-has made undergraduate education 
his number-one priority.”
Altmann said that while he understands the 
need for a replacement for Skibo, he’s not sure that 
the UC will accomplish all of the functions it is 
intended to.
“I’m quite skeptical about the University’s abil­
ity to build a decent building in [Skibo’s] place,” 
said Altmann.
“I realize that Skibo has some structural prob­
lems,” Altmann said, “so perhaps given the fact 
that Skibo has to come down, they have to put 
something in its place. I’m worried that they’re 
trying to do too much in one building.”
Altmann said that perhaps a smaller University 
Center would have been appropriate and that 
some of the $45.5 million to be spent could have 
gone to renovate the Gym.
“My base fear is that they’re not going to do it 
right,” Altmann said. “I look at Resnik and the 
GSIA extension, and I shudder.”
[Ed. Note: Tartan Editor-In-Chief Brendan 
McFeely contributed to this article.]
Senate will 
discuss plus/ 
minus grades
By MARKUS KASSBOHRER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s undergraduate students 
might get plus/minus letter grades in their 
records beginning next year. A resolution to this 
effect was put forward in last week’s Student 
Senate session, faculty already having approved 
the change.
“What final grade would you give a student 
with a B, a B, and an A?” said Erwin Steinberg, 
vice provost for education. With plus/minus grad­
ing, already in effect for CMU’s graduate stu­
dents, the’three grades could easily be averaged 
to a B+.
“This idea has been around for a long time,” 
said Steinberg, who was named as a sponsor of 
the new system. “I have talked with a lot of 
people about it,” he said, and he had found it to 
be widely supported.
“We intend to implement it for all students 
from next semester on,” Steinberg said. He said 
the transition would be made clear on tran­
scripts.
The Student Senate resolution advocates 
implementation only for incoming freshmen in 
1994, and asks for the registrar to use both 
systems simultaneously until current freshmen 
have graduated.
Steinberg said, “There are no administrative 
or technical problems with plus/minus grading; 
it works for the graduate students already.”
According to Steinberg, “it has already been 
approved by Student [Senate], but the impres­
sion was that they hadn’t considered it carefully. 
They rushed it through and we wanted to insure 
that they can make recommendations,” so it was 
put forward again.
After discussing the subject, Student Senate’s 
Academic Affairs Committee drafted a resolu­
tion for discussion in the senate and presented it 
in the last meeting.
Crime and Incident Report
: 11/3 SUSPICIOUS INCI-
DENT, 1:43 pm. A Physical Plant 
worker was approached at Shirley 
Apartments by 5’11" male weigh­
ing about 160 pounds, wearing a 
long black trench coat and gray 
t, and acting strange.
The man approached the 
worker with his left hand in his 
(¡oat pocket, as if he was holding 
gun. The worker got out of his 
truck and asked, “Is there some­
thing that I can do for you?” The 
man said, “Yeah, come here.” The 
worker said, “Yeah, right” and 
ran down the street towards Fifth 
Avenue, where he ran into 
Webster Hall and asked some 
workers to call the police. In the 
meantime, the man walked down 
to Fifth Avenue and bolted to­
wards the Oakland area.
The responding officer checked 
the area with no results. The
i
worker also asked the Webster 
Hall workers to call the Pitts­
burgh Police, who never arrived.
; 1173 SIMPLE ASSAULT, 9:05 
)m. A student was riding her 
^bicycle on Schenley Drive when 
she was struck by a pumpkin 
thrown from a vehicle traveling 
if the same direction. The stu- 
described the vehicle as a 
full-size, dark red, four-door se- 
/dan.
The student was struck in the 
lpwer back region and was 
knocked off of her bike. Medical 
attention was refused, but her U- 
Bolt bike lock was dislodged from 
the bike and could not be found.
11/4 THEFT, 4:30 pm. A stu­
dent said that sometime during 
jjhe evening while working in the 
Margaret Morrison Plaza com­
puter cluster, someone took his 
^ own leather jacket. He said he 
entered the cluster with the j acket 
and doesn’t remember leaving 
jrtth it. He said he felt that ome- 
°dy took the jacket while he was 
“sing the printer. 
f: Hie student checked the clus- 
?>'several times with no results.
,U/5 NOISE DISTUR-
¦ ANCE, 3:21 pm. Campus Po- 
! ,ce received several noise com­
ets throughout the afternoon 
* garding loud stereo music from 
tent at the Fence. Somebody» 
reported that his office windows 
Sere vibrating from the music. 
e student at the Fence accepted
an internal citation for the fra­
ternity holding the Fence. The 
student said he had been at the 
Fence since 1:30 pm.
11/5 ACCIDENT/PER­
SONAL INJURY, 9:10 pm. An 
officer reported to Campus Police 
personnel that a student was 
down and may have been in an 
accident. The student was on his 
bicycle and riding downhill. He 
went over the handle bars caus­
ing trauma to the left side of his 
head and cutting his right hand.
CMU Police units and City 
Medics responded. The student 
was immediately immobilized 
with a collar and a backboard. 
The student was transported by 
ambulance to Presbyterian Hos­
pital. The student was wearing a 
helmet at the time of the inci­
dent.
His bicycle was locked onto a 
parking meter toward the bot­
tom of Tech Street. His helmet 
and backpack were placed in 
Baker Hall 155 for safekeeping.
11/9 MEDICAL CALL, 10:50 
am. A student reported that some­
body had fallen on the first floor 
of Donner Hall and was not mov­
ing. Upon the responding officer’s 
arrival, the student was sitting 
up but feeling dizzy. The student 
said that he had flu-like symp­
toms and had a history of low 
blood pressure. The student was 
on medication for the low blood 
pressure. The student also said 
that he did not sleep well last 
night, thus worsening the prob­
lem.
The student refused transpor­
tation to the hospital, the Stu­
dent Health Center, and treat­
ment by City Medics at that time. 
The student’s roommate said that 
he would stay with the student. 
The student was advised to call 
Campus Policeif he wanted trans­
portation at a later time.
11/11DOMESTIC DISPUTE ,
2:23 am. A student called Cam­
pus Police and said that she had 
been assaulted by her boyfriend. 
The student was crying and said 
the ex-boyfriend was no longer 
on the scene.
Two officers responded and 
spoke with the student in her 
room. She said that she had been 
in an “abusive relationship” with 
her ex-boyfriend. She said that in
the past, he had struck her and 
thrown things at her. She said 
that she called Campus Police 
this evening, because she was1 
upset after her ex-boyfriend had 
thrown water on her after an ar­
gument. She said she had been 
fearful of being hurt by her ex­
boyfriend.
One of the officers informed the 
student of the option of obtaining 
Protection From Abuse papers. It 
was also suggested that she in­
quire into having the problem 
handled through Student Affairs. 
She was also informed that the 
responding officers would speak 
with the ex-boyfriend and tell him 
not to have any more contact with 
her this evening.
When the officers spoke with 
the ex-boyfriend, he seemed calm 
and very cooperative. He said that 
his ex-girlfriend was upset be­
cause he wanted to stop seeing 
her. He also said that he would 
stay away from her for the rest of 
the evening.
11/11 SUSPICIOUS ACTIV­
ITY, 3:28 am. A custodian called 
Campus Police and said that 
somebody was trying to remove 
the metal grating from the stor­
age room near Wean Hall 8301. 
He said that the person had been
crouched in front of the door with 
his back to him as the custodian 
stepped off the elevator at the 
opposite end of the 8301 hallway. 
As the custodian walked towards 
him, the person turned his head, 
saw the custodian, quickly stood 
up, and walked away. The un­
known person entered the stair­
well at the far end of the 8100 
stairwell.
An officer found the person at 
the top landing of the 8100 stair­
well where doors leading to the 
roof and a storage room are lo­
cated. He was identified as a CMU 
student. He told the officer that 
he was just exploring and denied 
that he had been at the door of 
the storage closet. .The custodian 
later positively IDed the student 
as the person that he saw.
The grating on the door had 
been loose for some time. The one 
screw that holds it in place was 
halfway out. The custodian, how­
ever, could not see what the stu­
dent was doing at the grating.
The student was advised that a 
report would be written and for­
warded to the Dean of Student 
Affairs. The student was told to 
leave the area.
11/11 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 10:49 pm. An RA at
(A BAKERY AND RESTAURANT)
Bigger, Better Bagels... 
...Naturally!
Schwartz's Bagels are made with all natural 
ingredients and baked fresh all day!
Our dough is never frozen. A Schwartz's bagel 
contains no fats, white sugars, or preservatives.
OAKLAND THE STRIP
3615 Forbes Ave. 1901 Penn Ave.
682-2558 232-3590
Mon-Fri, 7om-7pm, Sat 7:30om- 4pm, Sun 8am- 4pm
,fn3v BAnb 9Y n3 93Y foronGo 
3 FREE bagels with the purchase of a dozen!
(16 bugeh in all!) czxpims 6/30/Q'l ^
CMU #^ MK (aBAOfft A ? J) K£ STM llÂxfJ
Shirley Apartments called Cam­
pus Police and said that several 
people were outside the apart­
ments throwing apples and other 
debris at the building. Two offic­
ers responded, by which time the 
people had already left the area.
While conducting an exterior 
check of the area, an officer was 
approached by a nearby resident 
who said that he and his wife 
were disturbed by two men and 
three women running through the 
nearby yards screaming and 
throwing objects.
The RA told the officer that the 
people were definitely CMU stu­
dents, three of whom he identi­
fied by name.
It could not be determined at 
the time if any damage occurred 
during the above incident other 
than in areas in front and on the 
sides of Shirley Apartments that 
were littered with apples and 
other food items. A copy of the 
report was forwarded to Student
Affairs for disciplinary actions.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all Campus 
Police reports prior to release to 
The Tartan.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
• Reports are printed at The 
Tartan Editor-in-Chiefs discre­
tion.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of a 
complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
FRANK MICHELS
CMU
issendingYOUback to
HIGH SCHOOL!
Now, before you get too worried, 
READ ON! How would you like to- 
visit your high school over winter break 
and talk with students about your 
experiences here at Carnegie Mellon?
It's called the 
High School Ambassador Program!
To learn more, come to a meeting on:
Wednesday, Dec 1 or 
Thursday, Dec. 2 
from 6:30 to 7:30 pm at 
The Office of Admission 
Warner Hall 100
If you have any questions, please call the 
Office of Admission at x8-2082 and ask for 
Audrey Mastrangelo.____________
And we promise...you won't have to retake thé 
SAT.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Trustees’ decision will 
benefit entire campus
“The activities center certainly 
is an extremely modern ... addi­
tion to the campus, but the stu­
dents question whether it is com­
pletely adequate, and whether it 
was really designed as much 
'with the students in mind’ as it 
could have been.”
— “Designed for students?” 
The Tartan, January 11,1961
"We suggest that the new Skibo 
is a bad building. It is badly 
sited, badly oriented, badly 
planned, and badly detailed.”
— “Architects comment on 
Skibo,” The Tartan, January 17, 
1961.
The Board of Trustees an­
nounced last Monday that the 
demolition of Skibo Hall would 
begin immediately after gradu­
ation this spring.
To the trustees, we say, 
“Thank you;” to Skibo, we say, 
“Good riddance.”
It is true that many of us have 
fond memories associated with 
the old heap, but its inefficiency 
and glaring structural problems 
have made it an open wound on 
the Carnegie Mellon campus for 
too long. Major repairs to the 
building have been postponed 
for some time. The staircases 
are disintegrating, the walls are 
cracking, and the stench of stag­
nant sewage suffuses the build­
ing. While we, like the adminis­
tration, would question the wis­
dom of investing major funds in 
the repair of a doomed building 
when those monies are sorely 
needed elsewhere, the occupants 
of Skibo have been forced to live 
with those problems for too long. 
We have been teased for with 
the promise of a new university 
center in place of Skibo that 
would make all our suffering 
worthwhile.
The planned demolition of 
Skibo means that, at long last, 
the university center project is 
underway. We have every rea­
son to believe that this is not a 
false start because the trustees 
have authorized the funding for 
the project, going so far as to 
advance a $20 million line of 
credit from the University’s en­
dowment to help the construc­
tion along. We applaud their 
actions, and we wish the Uni­
versity the best of luck as they 
continue to seek donations for 
the project. Currently, cash on 
hand for the project is about 
$7.5 million short of the 
administration’s goal. We hope 
that the trustees’ optimism is 
buoyed when further philan- 
. thropy fills that deficit.
The organizations currently 
housed in Skibo are to be moved 
to the former Naval Reserve 
Center on Forbes Avenue, which 
the University is currently in
the process of acquiring. The 
acquisition is expected to be com­
plete by December, and the' 
building should be ready for oc­
cupancy within two to three 
months after that.
Unfortunately, one of the pro­
posals currently being discussed 
would have those organizations 
moving into the naval building 
in the middle of the semester. 
We think this would be a major 
inconvenience for the parties 
involved, not to mention a hec­
tic and rushed moving process.
For many organizations—The 
Tartan, the Student Union, The 
Thistle, and WRCT, to name a 
few — it is essential to have full 
use of their offices at all times in 
order to conduct business. They 
would be forced to uproot them­
selves in the middle of the se­
mester, curtailing much of their 
work until their moves are com­
plete. WRCT estimates that the 
radio station can not be moved 
in Jess than a month, for ex­
ample.
These problems are unneces­
sary. The building will be open 
until graduation in order to pro­
vide dining facilities and other 
support services to the campus. 
There is no need to move during 
the middle of a term.
We suggest that the adminis­
tration ask all occupants of the 
building beforehand when they 
would prefer to move. Perhaps 
the process could, in many cases 
be very gradual. Little by little, 
their possessions could be trans­
ferred to their new quarters, so 
that their functions could con­
tinue with minimal interrup­
tion. Or, perhaps the moves 
could be postponed until after 
final exams in the spring. While 
that would certainly cramp the 
lifestyles of those of us who in­
tend to leave campus in May, it 
would also be preferable to a 
highly disruptive cross-campus 
move in, say, April.
We will be as glad as everyone 
else to see Skibo come down. A 
smoothly functioning student 
union is vital to the social life of 
any university campus. What 
would Pitt be without the Will­
iam Pitt Union, or Duquesne 
without the Duquesne Union? 
It is especially essential in an 
environment as stressful as 
CMU.
We would, however, like to see 
the imminent move planned 
with the needs of the tenants in 
mind.
We’re sure that all the tenants 
of Skibo would rather spend a 
few more weeks in the building 
than lose precious time in the 
middle of a busy semester, un­
dertaking an unnecessarily 
hasty move.
The Tartan’s editorial policy
'The editorials appearingatthe 
beginning of the opinion section 
are the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the 
opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of au­
thors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members ofthe Uni-
Letters to the Editor
Student Affairs deacti­
vates caller ID feature
Editor:
I am writing to ex-onLetter to the Editor
press my agreement 
with your editorial of Letter to
f“be(r8|'Caller the EditorID threatens prom­
ise of anonymity,” 11/8] regarding the 
new phone system in the Student Af­
fairs offices in Warner Hall. You rightly 
noted that some of the university busi­
ness sets in our offices have a display 
which shows the phone number of the 
line from which any on-campus incom­
ing call originates. While this is a stan­
dard feature ofthe larger business sets, 
it is by no means a necessary one. In 
having these phones put in this sum­
mer, I should have been more attentive 
to the fact that this feature could com­
promise the assurance of privacy for a 
caller to the office. I can assure you that 
we have not used this feature to record 
the number of a caller without their 
consent, nor to attempt to identify a 
caller who wished to remain anonymous. 
Nevertheless, we have disabled this fea­
ture on the phones so that all future 
callers to this office can be assured ofthe 
standard of confidentiality which has 
been central to our ability to serve stu­
dents. As always, I urge any student 
with any concern of a personal or aca­
demic nature to contact us and to con­
tinue to rely on us to to be here to help in 
any way possible. Best wishes for the 
remainder of the semester.
Michael C. Murphy 
Dean of Student Affairs
Superior humans are 
compassionate
are treated.” Einstein said, “Nothing 
will benefit human health and increase 
the chances for survival of life on earth 
as much as the evolution to a vegetarian 
diet.” Alice Walker wrote, “The animals 
of the world exist for their own reasons. 
They were not made for humans any 
more than black people were made for 
white, or women created for men.” Leo 
Tolstoy said, “The vegetarian movement 
ought to fill with gladness the souls of 
those who have at heart the realization 
of God’s kingdom upon Earth.”
The truly “superior” human beings 
have always based their actions on com­
passion and respect for other animals, 
human and non-human.
Sarah Blecksmith 
MCS Freshman
Human might does not 
make moral righton
Letter to 
the Editor
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
In an experiment 
conducted by hu­
mans, captive rhesus 
monkeys were fed 
only if they were will­
ing to pull a chain and electrically shock 
an unrelated monkey whose agony was 
in plain view through a one-way mirror. 
Rather than inflicting suffering on an­
other, these animals chose to go hungry, 
suffering for days, even weeks. In their 
species, compassion is the norm. (Ameri­
can Journal of Psychiatry v 121, pp. 5842)
Who is the superior species in this 
case — the human researchers, for be­
ing able to capture, imprison, and starve 
other highly intelligent primates, or the 
monkeys who acted from an ethic other 
than selfishness and sadism?
Gandhi said, “The Greatness of a na­
tion can be judged by how its animals
Editor:
Ronak Singhal be­
lieves that “Humans 
beings superior to 
animals” [11/8], 
which justifies inflict­
ing suffering on other animals. There is 
no difference between a lion eating a 
gazelle, Singhal believes, and him shack­
ling a cow by her rear leg, hoisting her off 
the floor, and slitting her throat. How­
ever, if Singhal is a “superior human 
being,” capable of moral thought and 
ethical behavior, then his actions can­
not be justified by another “inferior” 
animal’s behavior. It is amazing that 
Singhal, for all his superiority, cannot 
think or act beyond the level of a carni­
vore in the wild.
Would Singhal defend the rights of the 
more technologically advanced to en­
slave, exploit, and exterminate people 
who haven’t “developed a means of send­
ing signals thousands of miles”? Singhal 
would have been able to defend slavery 
with the same argument of technologi­
cal superiority, contending that the in­
ferior blacks “should be proud to have 
lived their lives for our pleasures.” It is 
easy to imagine Singhal telling the Jews 
in the concentration camps that they 
deserved their fate since the Nazis had 
developed more effective weapons.
Singhal says that humanity, as a 
whole, has produced many technologi­
cal wonders. No other species has cre­
ated atomic weapons, “smart” bombs, 
gas chambers, DDT, etc. The human 
species, as a whole, has committed atroci­
ties far beyond anything found in other 
species. One look at the systematic eth­
nic cleansing, the vast environmental 
degradation of the earth, or the suffer­
ing in an animal shelter of discarded
pets quite clearly shows that humanity 
is far from superior to the rest ofthe 
animal kingdom. Indeed, when judged 
as a whole, humanity is superior onlyin 
terms of cruelty, greed, and selfishness.
It is doubtful that Singhal has ever 
“designed a machine that can make an' 
around-the-world trip in less than 24 
hours.” Does this mean that he is fair 
game to be eaten? One cannot base the 
level of rights allotted to a being on the 
individual’s relative intelligence. Oth­
erwise, many human beings—children, 
the mentally handicapped, members of 
“primitive” cultures — would be subju­
gated to serve the pleasure of the most 
intelligent, the handful of people who 
have made the technological advance 
that Singhal believes allow all humans 
dictatorship over the other animals.
Throughout history, the human ani­
mal has been capable of prejudices 
cruelty that are unfathomable to us to­
day. It is clear that we are just as ca­
pable of justifying our cruelty to others 
whose only crime is being different than 
us.
There is no moral justification for ex­
ploiting a fellow sentient being for “our 
pleasures.” We continue to do so be­
cause, as Singhal so clearly believes, j 
Might makes Right.
As human beings, we are capable of 
thought and action beyond the accepted 
prejudices of the day. We can act ethi­
cally and compassionately, showing our 
respect to the interests of all fellow sen­
tient beings with whom we share the 
ea^th.
Dr. Anne Green
Dept, of Modem Languages
GSIA senator plans to 
work for greater good
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
Over the last sev­
eral weeks, a lot of 
attention has been 
given to the debate 
over the Graduate 
Student Activities fee. As one of the new 
Senators from GSIA, I find myself right 
in the middle of the controversy. That’s; 
okay, but first I thought I might clear up 
a couple misconceptions and incorrect 
assumptions.
The main point I wish to deal with 
concerns my colleagues’ intentions to­
wards the Student Senate. The Tarta^ 
asked why now? “Perhaps the 
have been lifted from our eyes and we 
see that perhaps we can make a differ* 
ence.”
The four Senators from GSIA, myself 
included, are in our first year at CMUyl 
Please see LETTER, F
versity community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer’s 
address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be with­
held upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer 
than 500 words. The Tartan edi­
torial board reserves the right 
to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publica­
tion.
Parking ° University Center • Greeks • Student Involvment ° Student Senate • Athletic Facilities ° Women’s Issues • Enrollment • Student Health 
Banking • Politics ° Funding • Football Field • Student Affairs • Constitution 0 Construction • Overcrowding • Contras ° Housing ° Sororities • Charitie- 
• Gymnasium • Dining Service • Environment • Recycling 0 Exercise ° Congress ° Middle East# Weather 0 Advising • Sex • Geeks 0 Alcohol0 Drug: 
° Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy ° Woody Allen • The Muppets ° Mail * Manure ° Advertising • Disco • Crime # All-Nighters • Grant’s Sex Life 
IshtarH 0 Hair ° Mousse 0 Human Relations • SEI # Presidential Search ° WRCT ° Computers ° Classified Research “ DC-lOs ° Howdy's Volume
Bill's Hair ° Funding ° Student Affairs ° Ci 
• Recycling ° Congress • Middle East ° Weal 
° The Flag 0 Woody Allen • Funding • Sti 
Gymnasium 0 Housing • Sororities0 Charitii 
° Crime ° Sex 0 Geeks * Corruption • Violi 
Construction • Overcrowding 0 Housing 0 
° Gay Rights ° Weather # Advising • Sex •
» Overcrowding • Housing • Sororities ° Charities ° Dining Service • Environment • Hostage- 
• Alcohol » Gav Rights 0 Drugs f Budget0 Music ° Mighty Mouse • Corned;
ivercrowding • Constitution 0 Activities Board I ° Club Sports 0 Middle East • Weather0 Advisini 
° Woody Allen » Funding • Student Affairs 
bnment ° Recycling ° Congress 0 Middle Ea?
Comedy ° Television • Construction uTraci
Parking • University Center ° Greeks ° Student Involvment # Student Senate 0 Athletic Facilities °. Women’s Issues • Enrollment 0 Student Health 
° Banking | Politics ° Funding 0 Football Field 0 Student Affairs ° Constitution • Construction » Overcrowding • Contras ° Housing 0 Sororities * 
Charities ° Gymnasium ° Dining Service • Environment • Recycling • Exercise ° Congress ° Middle East • Weather 0 Advising ° Sex 0 Geeks • Alcoho
• Drugs 0 Music » Mighty Mouse • Comedy • Woody Allen ° The Muppets • Mail 0 Manure ° Advertising ° Disco 0 Crime ° All-Nighters ° Grant's Sex 
Life • Ishtarll * Hair 0 Mousse ° Human Relations 0 SEI • Presidential Search ° WRCT ° Computers 0 Classified Research ° DC-1 Os 0 Howdy's Volume
• Bill's Hair • Funding » Student Affairs 0 Construction • Overcrowding • Housing • Sororities 0 Charities • Dining Service ° Environment0 Hostage^
• Recycling • Congress • Middle East • Weather 0 Advising ° Sex 0 Geeks • Alcohol ° Gay Rights • Drugs ° Budget 0 Music • Mighty Mouse • Corned) 
The Flag • Woody Allen • Funding * Student Affairs ° Mayor ° Construction • Track Field 0 Overcrowding • Constitution ° Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 19937
Pope’s decree shows lack of empathy
h-zzr SJi
pope John Paul II recently issued a Papal Encyclical 
on proper Catholic behavior. The Pope believes that 
many of the faithful around the world have strayed from 
the church’s teachings, and put forth the Encyclical to 
call the flock home again.
The main thrust of the Encyclical can be summarized 
as: sin is sin, regardless of situation. This seems reason­
able, especially given the turmoil and moral vacuity of 
our world.
Ethnic, racial, and random violence abounds. Tremen­
dous, and often fatal, poverty exists in many places. 
Greed paves and pollutes the earth. Entire social sys­
tems crumble, leaving many grasping for something — 
anything — in which they can believe.
Yet a closer look reveals that the Pope is not promoting 
justice, but rather demanding obedience: blind, abso­
lute, and unquestioning.
While injustices great and small occur throughout the 
world, from starvation in Somalia to Christians slaugh­
tering (“cleansing”) Muslims in Bosnia, the Catholic 
church’s greatest enemy, as judged by the amount of 
rhetoric, is a woman concerned with the decision of 
whether or not to bring a child into the world. The Pope
espoused concerning our relationships with others. These 
teachings can be simplified to “Love your neighbor as 
yourself.” When it comes to loving themselves, everyone 
is inclined to work to improve their situation and allevi­
ate any suffering they may encounter.
Thus, the Church’s overriding goal would have to be 
the betterment of the lives of all God’s creatures, allevi-
is unable to pontificate enough against the evils of ating any suffering that may occur, 
limiting procreation. Yet this is hardly the thrust of the Church’s message,
Historically, the Church has had a naive and sexist which remains in the scientifically backward and so- 
rationale for some of its proclamations. Like the rest of cially prejudiced dark ages, continuing the traclition 
patriarchal medieval society, land-owning white males which has historically promoted slavery, racism, sexism,
were considered 
by the Church 
to be the end-all 
of God’s cre­
ation. It was the 
man’s semen 
that contained 
life, with 
woman merely 
serving as an 
incubator for
When it comes to loving themselves, every­
one is inclined to work to improve their 
situation and alleviate any suffering they 
may encounter.
inquisitions, and 
exterminations 
of those of differ­
ent traditions. 
Contrary to the 
enlightenment 
and love alleg­
edly promoted by
__________________________________________________the Church, the
Pope would cre­
ate a world of
even greater suffering by increasing the population of 
the planet, especially among the poor least able to afford 
to feed more children. This lack of empathy and under­
standing is cruel and, by most measures, evil.
Worse than that, however, is the fact that the Pope 
uses his position and power, fed by people’s fear of death 
and their desire for something better beyond, to promote 
mindless acceptance. “Good” Christians are not to ques­
tion their lives or to analyze any situation with critical 
thought and compassion. Rather, they are to follow the 
Church’s guidebook, remaining mindless automons serv- 
a sentient being, to be the moral equivalent of ing only the latest interpretation of Jesus’ teachings to be
the reproduction of “man-kind.” Thus, alleg­
edly in the name of reverence for human, 
Christian life, any act that stood in the way 
of allowing the sperm to become an adult 
human being — from masturbation to any 
attempt at contraception — was “murder.” 
This attitude lives on today in the pro-hu- 
man-genetic code movement, who consider 
RU486, which causes the lining of the uterus 
to be shed and removes the chance of a 
fertilized egg implanting and developing into
smothering an infant or killing a person.
For many of us, our scientific understand­
ing of reproduction has advanced beyond the 
male-centered views of centuries ago. We 
now know that it is from the woman — from 
her breath and blood—that life develops and 
is boro into the world. More importantly, we 
know the tragedies of poverty, environmen­
tal destruction, and wars are caused, to a 
large extent, by overpopulation. ,
It would appear that the Church should be 
concerned with promoting the views Jesus
Letters to the Editor
issued from Rome.
Blind faith to traditions and leaders is the greatest 
“evil” humanity faces. As long as we base our lives on 
dictates from others, we will never accept responsibility 
for our own actions and work for a world of justice. As 
long as we abdicate our ability to think and act for 
ourselves, we will never advance beyond entrenched 
prejudices that prevent us from respecting others as 
ourselves.
Matt Ball is a PhD student in engineering and public 
policy.
LETTER, from page 6
That means at the time we joined 
Senate we had only been here 
nine weeks. I don’t see any fresh­
men taking on this responsibility 
at such an early point in their 
academic career. As for finally 
realizing we can make a differ­
ence, I think this misses the point 
entirely. All four of us are already 
very active in our community, 
through “I Have a Dream” and 
other organizations at school and 
in the community.
We were all asked by our class­
mates to give up some more time
for them so the school could be 
properly represented in the Stu­
dent Senate. We all thought hard 
about the involved obligation 
and the responsibilities associ­
ated with Senate before joining 
in.
That being said, I invite any­
one to ask me about the issues or 
my commitment. I’m more than 
happy to talk to anyone before 
or after the Senate meetings, or 
anywhere you might find me.
John Calhoon 
GSIA
NY Carnegie Club 
welcomes students
o%Letter ta the Editor
Editor:
I am writing 
in response to 
the article Letter tO 
Nicolle Nowitz
wrote about the the Edlt0r 
Carnegie Mellon Club [“Carnegie 
Club provides for alumni, stu­
dents,” 9/7].
The Metropolitan New York 
Clan is pleased to have coverage 
in The Tartan about our gather-
ing. It makes students aware of 
our organization, and hopefully 
will encourage them, to come to 
our events whenever they are in 
town.
Currently, the Carnegie Mellon 
Club in New York is affiliated 
with the Women’s National Re­
publican Club, and we use their 
facilities for our functions be­
cause, unlike the Ivy League 
schools, we do not have our fa­
cilities in New York.
We are sorry if Nowitz felt a 
bit let down by the decor in the 
solarium. The event was held
there because we thought people 
might like a little exposure to the 
sun and the fresh air.
I must admit that I felt a little 
disappointed myself that it wasn’t 
held in the library or in the ball­
room, where people would be in a 
more traditional “club” setting with 
plush armchairs and sofas. We will 
be hosting future events in those 
rooms.
We hope we will be seeing many 
of you here in the future.
Peter Chang 
Econ/IM ’93
A PERSON’S
OPINION
Every time Student Senate elections 
come around, we hear about the pitiful 
voter turnout. This is blamed on the gen­
eral apathy of our student body. Do you 
know who your Student Senate rep­
resentative is ?
Sean Cho 
Freshman 
CIT
“No, I have no idea.”
Simone Gill
Freshman
Psychology
“No, I think they need to be more 
publicized.”
“WhyW sWouldyweWhdWl raRdROhWTauh 
Cem Mimaroglu 
Freshman 
CS/IM
“No, I have no idea.”
n
Huey Lin Eric Rochat
Freshman Junior
Undecided ECE
“No, but I’ve seen the little triangle “No.” 
advertisements in Skibo about the is­
sues they’re discussing.”
Irma Hustre 
Sophomore 
Cognitive Psychology
“I know one of them. His 
name is Mongo—oh, he’s from 
last year. I don’t know the new
Mike Schwem
Freshman
CIT
“When I went up to vote, I 
didn’t know any of them so I 
wrote myself in.”
THETARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.........Brendan McFeely
Managing Ed........Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr..............Andrew Sproule
News Editor....................Frank Michels
Forum Editor......................Keegan Folk
Sports Ed. .Lubomlr W. KochanskyJ
Features Editor................Lauren Heinz
Diversions Editor..............Una L. Urso
Calendar Editor.........Laura McClure
Magazine Co-Editors....Marnl Borek 
Barbara Reyes 
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Almee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn Ed. ..R, J. McGlnness
Acting Art Editor......Brockett Home
Photo Editor.....................Jennifer Urso
Production Mgr.............Katie Swango
Copy Manager..........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..............Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Ed..................Jason Togyer
Asst. Forum Ed.................Kris Hinrlchs
Asst. Sports Ed..................Eric Strauss
Asst. Diversions Ed............Tara Zane
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahlla
Asst. Art Eds.................Deepali Kakar
Mark Paat
Darkroom Manager .Nathan Houser 
Photo staff Manager......Kevin Chen
Contributing Editors 
Megan Dietz, Dexter Kobayashi
Senior Staff 
Tony deFIglo, Daniel Frey, David Hunt, 
Janice McClure
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Nicole Allen, Jason 
Andracki, Matt Ball, Jennifer Barkin, 
Allan Bourdlus, ZhuohanCai, Mahua 
Dutta, Andi Francioni, Andy 
Glendinning, Anuj Gupta, Tom Harper, 
Edward Hayes, Jason Helnleln, Micki 
KochanskyJ, Rich Kwiatkowski, 
Declan McCullagh, Matthew 
Messner, Ronak Singhal, Carolyn 
Skarada, Jason Specland, Steph 
Stine, Jennifer Turner, John Weber, 
Gary Wilson, ErikWitte, Kathy Wright
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Matt Goldberg, Andrew 
Plotkin
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Bassem El-Dasher, 
Andrew Flores, Kerry Hagan, Mike 
Harris, Reid Hecker, Andrew 
McDermott, David Perry, Jim Snyder, 
Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert
Production 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Eric Pettus, 
Kate Smith, Jenna Sweterlitsch
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerin Kay, Lisa 
Kruglak, Anne Lopez, Ed Slavishak, 
Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Dan Goldstein, Rich­
ard Lin, Rose Mills, Olivia Raharja, 
Monica Roisman, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Kymberiy Bartlo, David 
Bazelon, John Biggs, James S. Brown, 
Eugene Chung, Sunanda Desai, Etan 
Diamond, Jessica Fang, Dan 
Goldwasser, Adam Gross, Rachel 
Hass, Eugene Hong, Sharona Jacobs, 
Markus Kassbohrer, Justin Lam, Josh 
Lederer, Buck Neel, Nicoie Nowitz, 
Eileen O'Shea, Emily Pihlqulst, Mar­
garet Stallings, Susan Stuart, Leanna 
Surina, Bethany Sutton, Daniella 
Topol, Roger Wang, Calvin Yao, Hyun 
Yim
eau eWhdWl yC dau Cd?guld luiCTWTuh Rv tWhlmuOyu “uooRl ply­uhCydc” Sd yC W iuunoc luiCTWmTuh T?,oyCaug ,c Cd?guldC g?hylO dau vWoo Wlg CThylO CufuCduhCI Wd lR bRCd dR fuf,uhC Rv dau ply­uhCydc bRff?lydc” Sd yC Thyldug ,c LuCdmuhl rullCco­WlyW rhyldylOI Slb” G?,CbhyTdyRlC 
Whu W­WyoW,ou vRh dau CufuCduh Rh WbWgufyb cuWh” eau ugydRhyWoC WTTuWhylO Wd dau ,uOyllylO Rv dau RTylyRl CubdyRl Whu dau RvvybyWo RTylyRl Rv eau eWhdWl ugydRhyWo ,RWhg” tRo?flC Wlg TRoydym
bWo bWhdRRlC Whu dau RTylyRlC Rv ylgy­yg?Wo bhuWdRhC” eau eWhdWl huCuh­uC dau hyOad dR hu.ubd Rh bRlgulCu Wlc bRo?fl Rh TRoydybWo bWhdRRl” kudduhC dR dau NgydRh Whu RTylyRlC Rv W?daRhC iaR Whu ?C?WoocI ,?d lRd lubuCCWhyocI fuf,uhC Rv dau ply­uhCydc bRff?lydc” - oudduh Sldulgug vRh T?,oybWdyRl f?Cd ,u CyOlug Wlg Slbo?gu dau ihyduhjC WgghuCC Wlg TaRlu l?fm
,uh vRh ­uhyvybWdyRl” BWfuC iyoo ,u iydaauog ?TRl hu[?uCd” eau eWhdWl hu[?uCdC daWd oudduhC ,u lR oRlOuh daWl ]YY iRhgC” eaR eWhdWl huCuh­uC dau hyOad dR bRlgulCu Rh hu.ubd Wlc oudduh” tRTchyOad U AKKE ,c eau eWhdWl” eau eWhdWl ugydRhyWo ,RWhg huCuh­uC dau hyOad dR iydaaRog vhRf T?,oybWdyRl Wlc bRTc yd guufC ?lvyd vRh T?,oybWdyRl”
DvvybuF Gny,R ]Y (4A2) 268-2AAA “WyoylO WgghuCCF eau eWhdWlwBRx A7w
tWhluOyu “uooRl ply­uhCydcwryddC,?hOaI r- A]2AE-E8KY
F?lgug yl TWhd ,c cR?h -bdy­ydyuC Fuu”-oo hyOadC huCuh­ug”
ky,hWhc Rv tRlOhuCC SGGB #F Y8KY-EAY7”
V

---------------------------------------------------

DAD SAID,
Norm
WELL, CHESS WHAT?
HE WAS WRONG

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 19939
Gang legislation stunts rights of association
Michael Herf
Most people would say that the U.S. 
Senate had a feeding frenzy with crime 
|ast week. I would say that they had a 
feeding frenzy with Constitutional
rights.
v. By a vote of 60 to 38 last Tuesday, the 
Senate passed the addition of a “gang 
violence” section to the crime plan on the 
¡ables in Washington. Gang violence and 
even gang membership would be federal 
offenses.
I have no problem with legislation 
against gang violence, but let us con­
sider, for a moment, what the impact of 
a free-for-all on guilt-by-association could 
mean. Anyone who joins a gang would be 
an automatic criminal.
The bill is very indefinite about what 
gang “membership” entails. Does being 
nvolved with a gang mean living in the 
same neighborhood, having partial mem- 
)ership to a gang? For some, stepping 
into the wrong neighborhood is enough 
;o get them shot at, but they may not be 
guilty of any criminal activity, no crimi­
nal activity under current law, at least.
If I join a gang with five or more 
members, in which any member com­
mits two or more crimes, I’m guilty. It 
doesn’t matter what my individual 
;houghts on the matter were; it is even 
irrelevant if I tried to stop the crime 
Tom occurring. Fm guilty by associa­
tion.
We are permitted “peaceably to as­
semble” by the First Amendment. In people would give up a lot to ensure that 
1976, even after vigorous protest from their children are safe. No matter how 
the dominantly Jewish community, a much it hurts, we have to place indi- 
Nazi group was allowed to march through vidual rights ahead of stereotypes. We 
the town of Skokie, Illinois. Why? The cannot just strike out at an indetermi- 
Nazis have a power base. Because of nate mass we call a “gang” and pin the 
their visibility and political clout, the blame for crime on it. The only way
ACLU took up the case for their march.
Who will stand up for the rights of the 
boys in the ’hood?
The only reason this section of the
plan passed is because of ________________
stereotypes, preconcep­
tions, and fear. Let’s as­
sume a worst-case sce­
nario. Suppose to gain 
“membership” to a gang, 
you have to kill three 
grandmothers and two 
puppies. While that may 
be a common stereotype 
of gang membership, it is 
still not an admission of 
guilt. The members of 
this gang still must be charged with 
actual crimes, not just the ones stereo­
typed by their membership. Even the 
worst case should leave some remnant 
of criminal rights. The new crime plan 
leaves none.
Sir William Blackstone once said, “It 
is better that 10 guilty persons escape 
than one innocent suffer.” That prin­
ciple is a founding one of our judicial 
system: innocent until proven guilty ... 
except in the case of fear and mass 
hysteria.
No one wants to tell the weeping 
mother on television whose two-year- 
old son has just been murdered by a 
gang that the individual rights of the 
accused still matter. But they do. Most
judicial fairness and individual freedom 
can work is if we confront individuals 
with their crimes.
One could fabricate an argument that
No one wants to tell the weeping 
mother on television whose two-year- 
old son has just been murdered by a 
gang that the individual rights of the 
accused still matter. But they do.
the gang acts as a unit, that it is actually 
a group acting as an individual, and 
deserves to be tried as one, similar to the 
way corporate law treats corporations 
as financial individuals.
Possibly the enabling force that allows 
a gang member to murder someone, to 
assault someone, to steal something, is 
indeed the gang. Still, the individual is 
responsible and is the only accountable 
party. Justice cannot work any other 
way.
I have a secret confession. Sometime 
around midnight every Saturday for the 
past two months, I have been conspiring 
with some friends (six total) to devise 
the perfect plan to break into Wean and 
steal every Macintosh in the clusters.
All of us are doing this simply for enter­
tainment, or so I think.
When I read in the paper last Satur­
day that one of my friends has indeed 
stolen two Macs and is charged with 
burglary as well as breaking and enter­
ing, I realize that I qualify as a gang 
member (by the definition in SI 3-56, 
Title 4 of the crime bill). I am fully 
implicated in something that I had no 
knowledge of, that I did not do, and that
_________________ I did not support.
Gang members acting 
together to commit a 
crime should be tried on 
the basis of what they 
have each done person­
ally, what laws each 
among them has broken. 
The guy who knew noth­
ing of the crime, but who 
is a “member” of the gang 
should have no responsi­
bility in the matter. His 
membership certainly should not be 
enough to arrive at a conviction.
When we remove individual responsi­
bility from crime, the whole concept of 
punishment and justice falters. If every 
law you break can be thought of as one 
the gang is breaking, if every action can 
be passed off as something you are not 
personally responsible for, then account­
ability for your actions is destroyed.
Tougher minimum sentences will not 
matter. Increasingthe number of crimes 
punishable by the death penalty will not 
matter. If each person cannot be held 
personally accountable for his actions, 
and if he is held responsible for those of 
others, the moral dilemma of whether to 
commit a crime is eliminated. The crimi­
nal loses all individuality.
In considering the enactment of this 
type of legislation, we promote miscon­
ceptions from within and from without. 
The “group-think” of the gang, the very 
force that makes it powerful, is encour-. 
aged. If each gang member can pass off 
personal responsibility to “the gang,” 
then no deterrents will be effective.
From the outside, this concept pro­
motes even more fear and paranoia. - 
Everyone will become a gang member.
Consider belonging to a fraternity in - 
which some of the members engage in 
illegal drug use. It would be trivial to 
make the description of a “street gang” . 
fit this fraternity. All of the members, 
not just the perpetrators, could be^ 
slapped with a lawsuit.
How do we fight gangs, then?
Attack the environment that promotes 
them. Poverty, a drug culture, and no 
hope for improvement all cause gangs to 
form. Help any of those situations and 
you help the gang problem.
No matter how futile it may appear, no 
matter how scary it may be, the only way 
we can fight gang-related crime is by 
holding each member accountable for 
his actions alone. We can also take posi­
tive steps to destroy the environment 
that promotes gang violence. This goal ; 
cannot be achieved by adopting the jail- 
’em-all approach. Leadership using the 
voice of individuality and accountability 
for one’s own actions will be necessary in 
the place of intolerance.
Personally, I hope this gang we call 
Congress will give a lot more thought to 
the way they are trying to fight crime.
Michael Herf is a freshman in MCS.
Senate elections should be invalid: rules can’t bend to fit situation
The Editor’s Notebook
Editor’s Notebook is a feature 
which gives members of The 
Tartan’s Editorial Board the op­
portunity to express their indi­
vidual opinions. Editor’s Note­
book presents the opinions of 
the individual author only, not 
necessarily the opinions of The 
Tartan or of the Editorial Board.
Last week, elections for Stu­
dent Senate were held, and 
many graduate students who 
had taken an interest in being 
on Senate were voted in —17 
out of 34 seats were won by 
graduate students. Congratu­
lations are deserved for those
who won. However, there was a 
little slip up with the election 
process. Write-in candidates 
were put on a list and displayed 
at the polls. This may not seem 
a bad thing to many, but to me, 
that is a breach of policy.
Candidates are not allowed 
to campaign within 30 feet of 
the polls. This means that 
whether one was able to get the 
25 signatures on a petition, or if 
one decided to mount a write-in 
campaign, no one is allowed to 
campaign at the polls.
If a list of write-in candidates 
is available at the polls, then 
they have an advantage over 
those who had petitions signed. 
Their name would be displayed 
to those voting who had no idea 
who was running; therefore, if 
the person who actually took 
the time and effort to get the 
petition signed wasn’t able to 
let enough people know they 
were running, they would be at
a considerable disadvantage.
It has been argued that many of 
the seats won did not have an 
official candidate running who 
had gotten a petition signed, and 
therefore, that argument is in­
validated. I don’t believe this to 
be true. If a rule 
is set up to pro­
tect the integ­
rity of the elec­
tions, then that 
rule must be up­
held — regard­
less of the cir- _____________________
cumstances. ggmm
After the in­
validation decision was made 
known, the assocs.student-senate 
bboard was inundated with com­
plaints about the decision. A lot of 
the complaintants thought it was 
a plot by undergraduates to keep 
graduate students out of Student 
Senate. I find this belief not only 
completely paranoid, but also 
unreasonable.
The members of the Election 
Committee are students who are 
not running for a seat on Senate, 
whether by petition or by write- 
in. Therefore, to suggest that they 
are looking out for their own best 
interest seems ridiculous. To sug-
If a rule is set up to protect the in­
tegrity of [elections], then that rule 
must be upheld — regardless of the 
circumstances.
gest, then, that it was a con­
spiracy to keep their friends in 
power or to keep power in the 
hands of undergraduates is com­
ing close to being the topic of the 
next feature film of Oliver Stone.
It has been pointed out that 
the election officials themselves 
were the ones that put the write- 
candidate sheet at the polls, and
therefore should be the ones held 
responsible.
As a matter of fact, it was the 
fault of the elections board offi­
cials and they have admitted as 
such.
To say that they put the list 
there inten­
tionally so 
there would be 
a reason to in­
validate the 
elections is also 
rather ludi-
___________________ crous. They
made a mis­
take, and the 
person most responsible for the 
mistake didn’t even realize it 
was a mistake until someone 
filed a complaint against the 
election results because of it. He 
has accepted full responsibility 
for his actions. He allowed the 
list at the polls and that mistake 
was pointed out to the elections 
board. The only way to correct
the mistake was to invalidate 
the elections.
The work that the group now 
has to go through because of their 
decision is monumental. Not only 
do they have to respond to all of 
the angry students because of 
this decision, but they have to set 
up an entirely new election. I 
don’t envy them. They knew that 
the result of their decision would 
pile them up with more work, yet 
they made the decision. I respect' 
them for that.
To those people who won seats 
through the means of a write-in- 
campaign, I encourage you, now 
that you know you have the man­
date of those people who voted 
for you, to go out and get a peti­
tion signed, get on Senate, and 
benefit all of the campus commu­
nity to the best of your ability.
Andrew Sproule is The Tartan’s 
business manager and a junior 
creative writng major.
Sir
IF FREE TRIPS & CASH 51
Call us and1 find out how hundreds of 
students are already earning FREE 
TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with 
America’s #1 Spring Break company! 
Choose Cancún, Bahamas, Jamaica, 
Panama, Daytona, or Padre!
Nove o mbeov
STUDENT TRAVELS
(800) 328-SAVE or 
(617) 424-8222
Apartments Unlimited
Studios
1 Bedroom
2 Bedrooms
Shadyside & Squirrel Hill
For further information call 
(412)521-7838
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
international destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM 
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
Looks like a Vivarin night.
The big one's only 12 hours away. You 
could have paid more attention in 
class, but tonight you've gotta 
cram. First, you better keep 
those eyes from closing. 
Revive with Vivarin. 
Safe as coffee, it 
helps keep you 
awake and mentally 
alert for hours. 
So when your most 
difficult problem to 
solve is how to 
stay awake...make it 
a Vivarin night!
IP >
*<5 f , ^
Revive with VIVARIN.®
Use only as directed. Contains caffeine équivalent to 2 cupo of coffee. © 1993 SmlthKIIno Beocham.

---------------------------------------------------

THE ACTOR'S SOLUTION !
A Practical Guide To Becoming An Actor In New York
krBn3v Hf5vf9ebR kvo3BbR kT9fBeo3Bb “ lhrA l5foddd 
zo9Bhfn3v p3BofGnoJb wnBA krB5fb wA5 ”9Go 
,oo3 PAofo “ PAo j59Yb PAoS ”9Go P9Co3d
w. wk8P P’ ”.kj zj’l U’6­
p81$62. U’6j 06.EPp’8E wpP” ’j2.jI
Eo3Y 4qdtxR TNhb 4sd'' E7” B5I
k1P’jE E’$6Pp’8 
sWsWBA kGod EhnBo FsDc1l 
8oJ U5fCR 8dUd s''ss
YOU ASKED FOR IT
Student Discount
SAVE $4 ON HAIRCUTS
Now $10.00 - S 16.00
*With select stylist
LEWIS' HAIR SALON 
813 South Aiken Ave 
Shadyside 
682-4063
Sunday 
12PM - 5PM
Monday thru Thursday 
9AM - 2PM
PIZZA OUTLET
190 N. Craig Street (Oakland)
687-9555
FREE DELIVERY 7 DAYS A WEEK
"Home of the 2 PIZZA special"
TWO
LARGE
PIZZAS
PLUS $2.10 FOR EACH ADDITIONAL TOPPING ON BOTH PIZZAS 
NO COUPON NECESSARY • FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY
SALADS • CALZONES GOURMET PIZZA 
PIZZA • HOAGIES • DRINKS
We’re Celebrating Our 12th 
Anniversary
Jimmy Tsang’s
Chinese Restaurant 
5700 Centre Ave. at Negley 
Kennilworth Building
661-4226
OUR GUARANTEE
WE STAND BEHIND OUR PRODUCT 100%. IF YOU ARE NOT SATISFIED 
IN ANY WAY, CALL THE STORE FOR A NEW PIZZA AT NO EXTRA 
CHARGE OR RECEIVE A FULL REFUND
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY
MINIMUM DELIVERY — $5.00 • LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
PIZZA OUTLET
LARGEPEPPERONIPIZZA
$699
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER • ONE 
COUPON PER ORDER • PLEASE MENTION 
COUPON WHEN ORDERING
PIZZA OUTLET
$2OFF
ANY TWO WHOLE HOAGIES
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER • ONE 
COUPON PER ORDER • PLEASE MENTION 
COUPON WHEN ORDERING
’We- deitven- <pt&zt teàte fo tfocct d&w!
—----------------------- FEATURING ----------------------------------
NEW MENU FOR OUR ANNIVERSARY 
EARLY BIRD SPECIALS
DELIVERY SERVICE
$plpP.2 kj.k 
[cs ’Te l53Y9ScE9BhfY9S 
iIi'ctTe Eh3Y9S
*WE COOK TO ORDER* 
‘GUARANTEED FRESH AND HOT*
(AS IN OUR RESTAURANT)
‘EXOTIC DRINKS*
*BIRTHDAY CLUB*
Happy Birthday! You’re not getting older, 
you’re getting better!
RECEIVE A FREE APPETIZER AND MAIN COURSE FROM OUR REGULAR MENU 
WITH PHOTO I.D. AND PARTY OF FOUR ANYTIME YOUR BIRTHDAY WEEK.
BREAKING THE U.S. BLOCKADE OF CUBA
Hear Rev. Lucius Walker
Founder of Pastors for Peace
Rev. Lucius Walker is the Executive Director of the Interreligious Foundation of Community 
Organizations, a group which has fought on behalf of the poor all over the world. Rev. 
Walker founderd Pastors for Peace after U.S. backed counterrevolutionaries ("Contras") in 
Nicaragua attacked a ferry he was travelling on. Two people were killed. This past sum­
mer Pastors for Peace was instrumental in organizing the Cuba Friendshipment, in which 
hundreds of people in the U.S. defied Washington's blockade of Cuba both by travelling to 
Cuba and by bringing over tons of aid.
Wednesday, November 17, 7pm 
Carnegie Mellon University 
;; Doherty Hall Rm. 212
.Sponsored by the Pittsburgh Cuba Coalition, Black Graduate Student Organization and CISPES (The Committee in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador). 
Ad paid for by Political Speakers Forum Board and Student Activities Fee.
The Pittsburgh Cuba 
Coalition is an organi­
zation active against 
the U.S. blockade of 
Cuba and is currently 
building the next 
Friendshipment, which 
will leave in February of 
1994. The Coalition 
meets the first and third 
Wednesday of every 
month at Univ. of Pittsburgh, 
Forbes Quad Rm. 5s56. 
Everyone is welcome.
For more infromation call 
563-0448 or 362- 1408.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Tartans end season with 56-0 winCMU beat Case Western Reserve U. for the Academic Bowl
By RICH KWIATKOWSKI mg kickoff 30 yards to set the Tartans on.their own
Tartan Staffwriter 37 yardline. The Tartan offense pounded the ball
The Carnegie Mellon Tartans closed out their on the ground for 63 yards. Senior halfback Brian 
regular season schedule with their second shutout Horton scored his first touchdown on a one-yard 
of the season over the Case Western Reserve Uni- rush. Senior placekicker Fred Harding added the 
versity Spartans, 56-0. This victory gives the Tar- extra point and the Tartans were on the board 7— 
tans their third UAA Championship in four years 0 early in the first quarter.
The Tartans’ second touchdown 
was set up by a 28-yard punt return 
by sophomore defensive back Rob­
ert Locke. The return gave the Tar­
tans the ball on the Case 20 
yardline. The drive consisted of two 
rushes by junior halfback Jason 
Grusky, who scored on the second 
play to give the Tartans a 14-0 
lead.
Case took the kickoff and re­
turned the ball to their own 25 
yardline. On the third play of the 
drive Spartanjunior tailback Jarvis 
Gibson was intercepted by Tartan 
sophomore defensive back Avinash 
Barat.
Vineet Agarwal/Tartan Photographer Barat returned the interception 
Senior Tartan Jarrod Slket scores his record ninth to,,~u'1---
and a 14-1 mark in UAA play. The Tartans have 
outscored their opponents 204-21 in their last four 
games.
Once again, highlighting the victory were two 
individual records set by senior wide receiver Jarrod 
Siket. Siket caught two touchdown passes in the 
second half, which gave him nine on the year and 
broke Joe Chemay’s record of eight touchdown 
receptions which has stood since 1968. Siket also 
broke Chemay’s record for yardage per comple­
tion. Siket finished the season with 28.4 yards per 
reception.
Junior quarterback Chris Dee also set a personal 
mark when he moved into fourth place in career 
completions with 215. Dee had four completions,
12 attempts, one for a touchdown.
“This is the happiest day of my life because I get 
to share it my father. I just thought of winning the 
game, but the record was in the back of my mind to 
be honest,” said Siket. “This is the absolute best 
day, no way it can be equalized, and getting the 
game ball was a great surprise.” [editor’s note: see 
story below].
The Tartans also broke the team recordfor points 
scored in a season. The 56 points in this game gave 
the Tartans a total of370 points, breaking the 1990 
mark of 341 points.
iiiirjBingamqi/ i ai lai i r I iuiugi nbr5 ici
Head coach Rich Lackner and the Tartans celebrates winning the Academic Bowl.
32 yards for a touchdown, and a 21-0 Tartan lead.
“Avi worked his way into a starting position. We 
couldn’t be more pleased, he has done extremely 
well,” said Head Coach Rich Lackner.
The Spartans punted after three plays on their 
next drive. Tartans junior defensive back Joe Ferris 
returned the ball 26 yards to the Case 38 yardline.
The Tartans drove the ball to the Case 17 yardline
The Tartans set the tone for the entire game by where they were faced with a fourth and five, 
scoring four touchdowns in the first quarter. CMU The offense opted to convert the first down. Dee 
freshman halfback Buck Neel returned the open- handed off to Grusky who rambled for 17 yards and
his second touchdown of the day. The Tartans had 
the rout on as they rolled to a 28-0 lead.
“We could do anything we wanted, they did not 
have a good plan against us,” said Grusky. “We ran 
an unbalanced line on the two touchdowns. Most 
teams shift their defense to compensate, but they 
didn’t and it allowed me two big runs.”
The Tartans got the ball back after Barat recov­
ered a fumble on the first play of the second 
quarter. The Tartans moved the ball eighty yards 
on 13 plays, capped off by a one-yard touchdown 
rush by Horton. Harding added the extra point and 
the Tartans increased their lead to 35-0.
Case had three drives halted in the second quar­
ter. Case took over the ball on their own 34 yardline 
after the Tartan score. They moved the 29 yards 
before senior outside linebacker John Knutson 
recovered a Case fumble.
The Tartans could not capitalize on the turnover 
as junior quarterback Matt Neiss threw an inter­
ception. Case intercepted on their own 44 yardline, 
but gave up the ball just as quick when Barat 
registered his second interception of the day.
Once again the Tartan offense could not move 
the ball and gave Case the ball on Case 44 yardline 
after Neiss was 
sacked on fourth 
and seven.
The Spartans 
took the ball to the 
CMU 13 yardline 
where sophomore 
quarterback Doug 
Finefrock fired a 
pass into the end- 
zone which was 
picked offby Ferris. 
The half ended on 
this play.
Case received the 
second half kickoff 
but could only the 
advance the ball six 
yards before punt­
ing. CMU took over 
on their own 44 
yardline and scored three plays later on a 37-yard 
Dee to Siket touchdown reception. The Tartans 
now led 42-0.
“We were looking for Jarrod all day, he deserved 
the record,”said Dee. “The game came first, though. 
After we scored 35 points we were able to say ‘let’s 
get the ball to Jarrod.’This team wasn’t expected to 
do what we have done. We had a lot of question 
marks that filled out to their potential. This season 
was a real team effort.”
The Tartans got the ball back quickly. Case
fumbled on the first play of their next drive and the
Vineet Agarwal/ Tartan 
Junior running back Jason Grusky runs into for a
ball was recovered by sophomore outside line­
backer E.J. Tsangaris. The Tartans gave the ball 
up on downs and Case started their best drive of 
the game.
Case moved the ball 51 yards before Barat picked 
off his third pass of the game. The CMU drive took 
the game into the fourth quarter where they scored 
twice. The first fourth quarter touchdown was a 
42-yard Neiss to Siket pass.
“Case changed their secondary scheme in the 
second half,” said Offensive Coordinator Rich 
Erdeyli.
“They went to a three deep set and they could not 
keep up with Jarrod. As they changed, we 
what we wanted to do. We did our homework. I 
extremely proud of Jarrod.”
The Tartans were not content with a 49-0 
The Tartans brought their second offense in, 
sophomore quarterback Keith Dickerson.
Dickerson threw two passes for completions 
34 yards. The Tartans last score came on an 18- 
yard rush by sophomore fullback Lee Anton. The 
game ended with the Tartans registering a 56-0 
shutout.
The Tartans now have to wait and see if the 
South Regional Ranking Committee will place the 
Tartans in the top four. CMU was ranked seventh 
after last week and needed losses by key teams in 
the region.
“We’re not going to be nerve-wracking ourselves 
over it. We asked the team after the Trinity game 
to give us great games. They did everything we 
asked them to do. If the committee is wise enough 
to look at what we have accomplished, we should 
get in,” said Lackner. “We are one of the best teams 
in the South Region.”
Siket shares record breaking 
performance with family
By RICH KWIATKOWSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
Football tells many stories. Most of us know the stories about the 
winning score, the questionable call or the amazing reception. 
Football also tells more important stories— Stories about personal 
accomplishment, emo­
tion and family. One 
such story was told Sat­
urday during the Senior 
Day ceremony before the 
Tartan game.
The story was about 
Jarrod Siket and his 
family. Jarrod’s father,
Joe Siket, was severely 
ill with diabetes. The 
disease had left him 
blind and piaralyzed. Mr.
Siket’s last wish was to 
be present at his son’s 
final game.
“It finally happened. I 
wanted to be with my 
son in his moment of 
glory. I told Jarrod how 
proud I was of him, and 
to do it for himself not 
for me. I never wanted 
to push him,” said Siket.
Siket stayed alive long 
enough to share in 
Jarrod’s record breaking 
season and to be present 
with his son on the field.
However, a few hours 
after the game, Siket passed away.
Siket was able to attend all of Jarrod’s games his freshman year,
Bill Wade/ Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
Senior Jarrod Siket and his parents share a moment before the game.
“Before I leave for the game I call him up and that puts me in a 
somber mood about things at home. I know just before the game 
he’s thinking about me and I am thinking about him. But, when I 
buckle the chin strapl don't let it affect me.My dad would'be upset 
if he knew it affected me,” said Jarrod.
Nothing would keep Siket from this game, not an illness, not the 
cold, nor the rain. He has been living 
for this day. He has denied death sev­
eral times to be present when his son 
played his last football game. He only 
regretted that he could not walk onto 
the field.
“I wanted to show my son how strong 
I was. I wanted to be close to being like 
the other fathers,” said Siket.
Jarrod and his father got their wish. 
Jarrod broke two CMU receiving 
records Saturday and his father was 
able to join his son on the field after 
the football game.
“Parents’ Day was the one thing I 
had to look forward to. I hope I can 
pick up on something else. I am going 
to keep on fighting.”
J arrod was presented with the game 
ball by Head Coach Rich Lackner. 
Jarrod took the ball and gave it to his 
father, who was surrounded by family 
and friends. Even though the sky was 
cloudy, it was the brightest day for the 
Siket family. Siket himself seemed 
energized, more so than any medicine 
or therapy could provide him.
“I want to live to be a hundred. I 
don’t want to go, I don’t want to give 
up. I will defy what everyone says and 
say Til show you’”
The touchdown or the reception will always be there, those are
Brazinski wins soccer MVP
but his condition deteriorated and by Jarrod’s sophomore year he the superficial stories of football, but the story of Jarrod and his 
could no longer make the games. The radio became his best friend, father shows the emotional side of football. The side of football that 
“He listens to every game op. WRCT. He lives to hear the games is not on the highlight tape or in the newspaper article. No, this is 
on the radio,” said Jarrod. * the side of football that brings families together and grants a dying
Jarrod and his father had a game day ritual. man his last wish.
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
. Members of the Carnegie Mel­
lon soccer teams earned 10 UAA 
post-season honors, led by junior 
men’s forward Mike Brazinski, 
who was named UAA Most Valu­
able Player in a vote by the league 
coaches. Brazinski, who was sec­
ond on the Tartans in scoring 
with 28 points (11 goals, six as­
sists), also earned his second All- 
UAA first team award in his two 
years at CMU. The men finished 
13-3-1 (5-2—0 in the UAA, sec­
ond place) for their 13th consecu­
tive winning season under head 
coach Nick Gaudioso.
Brazinski, who has been in col­
lege for four years, but has one 
year of eligibility left, said he 
hopes to be back next season, but 
may not return.
For the women, senior defender 
Anh Nguyen was named to the 
All-UAA first team for the second 
consecutive year. Nguyen regis­
tered four points on the season, 
and led a stingy Tartan defense, 
that posted 10 shutouts and a 
13-4-1 record (2-4-0 in the , 
UAA).
Gaudioso’s squad also had two i 
second-team selections and three 
honorable mention awards. Jun- } 
ior defender Jeff McJunkin and > 
senior goalkeeper David Shapiro {
"I get a personal honor, but for the 
team’s sake, it didn’t mean any­
thing, because our goal was to 
make the tournament...”
—Mike Brezinski
“It was a great honor to receive 
such an award,” Brazinski said, 
but then he touched upon the 
disappointing end to the Tartans’ 
season. The team, ranked 17th 
overall in Division III, did not 
receive a berth in the 32-team 
post-season field.
“Havingthe NCAA tournament 
as a goal, and not reaching it was 
a disappointment,” he said. “I get 
a personal honor, but for the 
team’s sake, it didn’t mean any­
thing, because our goal was to 
make the tournament. It is just 
amazing that we finished that 
high at the end and still didn’t 
make the tournament.”
won second-team honors, and ; 
senior sweeper John Stivoric, jun- j 
ior forward Alex Amezquita and J 
freshman midfielder Tommy J 
Layton earned honorable men-; 
tion awards.
McJunkin posted 12 points j 
(four goals, four assists) on the * 
season, while Shapiro, who last; 
year was a first-team UAA pick, [ 
recorded 42 saves this season ; 
while posting 8.5 shutouts and a j 
0.65 goals-against average. He j 
holds the school record for career 
shutouts (33.5), single-season 
shutouts (10, in 1992), and low-1 
est goals-against average in a 
Please see SOCCER, Page 13

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993
CMU hockey has winning weekend
By KYMBERLY BARTLO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU Ice Hockey CJ.ub played two games last 
weekend, winning both in grand style. Last Satur­
day they faced the Pittsburgh Stars, a local hockey 
club, at an exhibition game in Harmerville where 
they triumphed 8-3.
The Tartans got three goals in the first period. 
Junior defenseman Greg Jessop scored the first 
goal for CMU. Grad student team captain and 
right wing Dave Umland scored the next two goals, 
assisted by junior defenseman P.J. Mann, fresh­
man Jim Buck, and freshman defenseman Chris 
Adukaitis.
CMU freshman goalie Jon Kliegman only gave 
up one goal to the Stars in the first period.
In the second period, the Tartans increased their 
lead with another three goals. Sophomore center 
Roger Maddalena scored, assisted by Umland and 
junior left wing John Cardillo.
The skilled offensive trio worked together to 
score again when Cardillo tallied the Tartans, fifth 
goal of the night, with Umland and Maddalena 
assisting. Junior left wing Phil Beck, assisted by 
Adukaitis, scored yet again against Pittsburgh.
Grad student goalie Scott Berry let the Stars’ 
third and final goal get past him in the third, but 
there wasn’t any chance of the Stars catching up. 
Buck scored, assisted by Beck, and then they traded 
places, with Beck scoring on an assist by Buck.
On the teamwork, Buck said, “Phil was working 
really well out there. He was right there when I 
needed him, and I tried to do the same.”
Each team had a power play in the third period. 
Jessop received two minutes for a crosscheck from 
behind. The Stars were penalized for unsports­
manlike conduct.
The Tartans skated out of Saturday’s game with 
a big win, giving them confidence and practice for 
Sunday’s game against the University of Pitts­
burgh.
“The Stars aren’t a college team. They’re younger 
... just an average team. We had a great warm-up 
on them,” Maddalena said about Saturday’s game.
The usually talented Pitt hockey team didn’t 
stand a chance last Sunday when they came to play 
the Tartans on their home ice in Monroeville. CMU 
won 5—2, showing no signs of fatigue, despite play­
ing the previous night.
The game started quickly with intensity and 
skill displayed by the Tartans from the first face- 
off, as they repeatedly intercepted Pitt passes. 
Mann and Umland seemed to be everywhere at 
once. Mann took the puck away from the Pitt 
offense, and passed to Umland who kept the puck 
in the Pitt zone until Maddalenai took a pass to 
score.
Umland scored the next goal, with the help of 
Cardillo and Mann, using impressive puck han­
dling maneuvers. Cardillo was a strong asset to the 
offensive team.
“The offense really started to come together. 
We’d had trouble the last couple of weeks getting 
goals. Obviously we didn’t have the problem on 
Sunday,” said Mann.
Pitt center Phil Laux managed to score against 
Berry, but their celebration was short-lived as 
Beck retaliated with a goal of his own with less 
than a minute left in the first period on an assist by 
Umland and Maddalena.
A 20-minute delay of game occurred when Cardillo 
dislocated his right shoulder. The game was halted 
until the Monroeville EMT arrived to cany the
injured player off the ice.
Cardillo said, describing his injury, “It was a 
freak play. In trying to hit the other player, my 
body twisted and I slammed my shoulder into the 
boards ...We both had a lot of momentum going. I’ll 
be out for three weeks but ready to go the first game 
in January.”
CMU did not lose their rhythm; if anything, the 
injury and subsequent delay boosted their motiva­
tion to win. The first period ended with the Tartans 
ahead 3—1.
Maddalena took a two minute penalty for trip­
ping in the second. Umland led the charge against 
Pitt’s power play. With CMU a man short, Pitt 
forward Kieth Givlian scored on the power play 
against Berry. It was Pitt’s last goal of the night.
Buck, graduate forward George Mueller, and 
senior left wing Mike Gallin passed the puck back 
and forth, successfully playing a game of cat and 
mouse with Pitt’s defense.
Berry’s talent extended beyond the goal line. He 
made several excellent passes to teammates from 
behind the net, and still guarded the net with 
ferocity.
Pitt became increasingly frustrated as the sec­
ond period ticked down, concentrating more on 
fighting than playing. Gallin was a recipient of 
aggressive attacks, as was Maddalena. Two penal­
ties were called on Pitt for tripping in the second 
period.
Wonderful puck control and passing by the Tar­
tans resulted in the fourth CMU goal by Mueller 
assisted by Buck and junior Constantine Davides, 
ending the second period with CMU leading Pitt by 
two goals.
The Tartans claimed the ice in the third period 
with the same energy and concentration that char­
acterized the first period:
Beck had some great blocks, keeping the pUt). 
away from Pitt sticks. The offense performed sup«, 
rior maneuvers which allowed them to increase th8 
score to 5-2. Umland slammed the puck into the 
goal, assisted by Maddalena and Beck.
Maddalena went into the penalty box in the third 
for interference. Beck’s performance was crucial 
during this Pitt power play, as was Davides, fo, 
keeping the puck out of the CMU zone and refusing 
to allow Pitt to score.
Although Pitt still played rough, and was called 
for three penalties, they posed less of a threat to the 
Tartans in the third. The ice itself seemed to trip 
them up.
The CMU offensive line, led primarily by Umland 
was strong. The defense matched the offensive 
effort whenever Pitt entered their zone. The gau, 
ended with CMU as the deserving victors.
“On the whole, the team was so ready and so 
excited to kick butt that we worked together really 
well. It just felt great,” Maddalena said.
The teamwork displayed in the game was excep. 
tional, causing the turnout of CMU fans to specu- 
late if the players were tied together in an ESP 
mind-link.
Umland laughed. “It was a lot of fun. We really 
improved our defense. We worked hard on it in 
practice. We got ahead early which really helped 
us.”
After two incredible games, it appears the CMU 
ice hockey team can’t lose. CMU played Penn State 
West on Saturday night in an away game at 
Greensburg.On Sunday they met Allegheny in a 
home game at Monroeville. The fans at last week’s 
games certainly got a show; come see another 
adrenaline pumping performance next weekend.Basketball season to start with high expectations
By LUBOMIR W. KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Sports Editor
“It is obvious that we are not getting 
the respect we deserve from the other 
teams in the league. That’s fine. They 
can go right on thinking we are a fourth 
place team. We’ll jump on them and 
surprise them, I’ll guarantee you that. 
The players looked at it 
as more than a slap than 
I did.”
Those are some pretty 
strong words, but Tony 
.Wingen, head coach of 
the men’s basketball 
team can justify it with 
the team he has as­
sembled for the upcom­
ing season.
The UAA preseason 
poll has picked the Tar­
tans to finish fourth, 
behind last year’s cham­
pion Violets of New 
York University, the 
Johns Hopkins Univer­
sity Blue Jays and the 
Bears of Washington 
University.
Wingen, now in his 
fourth year at Carnegie 
Mellon University, is 
excited about this 
season’s prospects for 
success.
“I have tremendous 
confidence about this 
season. It will be tough 
to do better than our 
record last season be­
cause of the toughness 
of our schedule. It’s a 
difficult schedule, but I 
think this team is ready 
for it. The real tough non-conference 
schedule is just going to prepare us bet­
ter for our UAA games. Our primary 
goal is to win the UAA. That’s our num­
ber one goal. If we do that, then we go to 
the NCAA Tournament, and that’s our 
second goal.” A big part of the difficult 
schedule Wingen referred to includes a 
December 1 contest away at the Univer­
sity of Akron. The Zips are a Division I 
school, while CMU is Division III.
One doesn’t have to look far to find 
reasons for Wingen’s enthusiasm. The 
team is returning nine lettermen and 
six seniors. All that equals an enormous 
amount of experience. Last season, the 
team enjoyed one of the best records in 
Carnegie Mellon University history, fin­
ishing 16-8 and 7-7 in the UAA, which 
was good for a third place finish.
Leading the Tartans will be two new 
captains, senior forward Derek Dragisich 
and senior swing man Matt Reiprish. 
With so many seniors to choose from, 
how did Dragisich and Reiprish get the 
hod?
“The team voted on it last April. They 
voted for Derek and Matt. I really \vould 
have been comfortable with any of our 
seniors as captains,” said Wingen.
With so many able players to choose
from, it must be quite a task for Wingen 
to decide on the starting lineup.
“I think Charlie Connors and Dragisich 
at the two post positions. They both have 
had very successful careers. At the small 
forward, Reiprish and Kevin Byrne are 
really battling it out along with Gregg 
Lassan,” said Wingen. “At the guard 
spots, Steve Athanas and Mike Hosni
Mark Eggert/ Tartan Art Staff
are really going head to head for the 
point guard position. Rony Johns has 
had a number of good practices at the 
two guard position. Lassan has played 
that position as well and Rich Bodnar 
looks real good at that position. We have 
to tighten it up pretty soon here. Right 
now there are two or three spots that are 
wide open in terms of who will start.”
Connors is a 6'8" center who was a first 
team all-UAA selection last season, av­
eraging 13.4 points and nine rebounds 
per game. He was second in the UAA in 
field goal percentage and rebounding 
and third in blocked shots.
Dragisich is 6'7", and averaged 11.9 
points and 6.2 rebounds per game last 
season. He needs just 62 points to reach 
1,000 for his career. Dragisich ranked 
fifth in the UAA in field goal percentage 
and eighth in blocked shots.
Reiprish, 6'5", averaged 5.7 points per 
game last season, but that is only part of I think it makes us more dangerous than
forward Brad Lawrence, junior Jon 
Blanciak (6'3"), who had the dubious 
honor of shattering one of the backboards 
last season, and sophomores Eric Ronzio 
(6'6"), and Steve Hartman (6'6"). Wingen 
explained his plans for these four play­
ers.
“Eric and Steve will play more this 
year. I’ll be working them into the rota­
tion inside. Ronzio had a tre­
mendous final game of the 
year last season against 
Emory University. Steve 
Hartman is a tremendous 
worker and physical player. 
Brad Lawrence is a big physi­
cal type player and Jon 
Blanciak will see action at 
both the small forward and 
the big forward. He’s a very 
good leaper. We can go with 
a physical inside group. We 
can go with an athletic in­
side group, or a more perim­
eter oriented group. We have 
the most flexibility with our 
inside players.”
In the back court, there is 
a real mix of experience and 
new talent. Hosni, a 6'3" se­
nior, is another Tartan who 
is closing in on 1,000 points. 
He only needs 109 more 
points to reach that mark. 
Hosni averaged 8.4 points 
and 3.6 rebounds last sea­
son.
Johns, a senior shooting 
guard, is the purest shooter 
on the Tartans. His aim on 
three pointers is deadly, and 
that’s where he gets the ma­
jority of his points (8.1 PPG).
Athanas is a 511" junior 
who is expected to step up 
into the point guard position vacated by 
Todd Jenkins, who graduated last year.
The Tartans have picked up a couple 
of very promising recruits. Leading the 
group are freshman Rich Bodnar, sopho­
more guard B.J. Lang (6'1") and Gary 
Trendel, a 6'8", 270 pound freshman.
Wingen plans on mixing as many play­
ers as possible in and out of the rotation 
this season, and he should be able to 
without sacrificing too much. With such 
a diverse group of players (in their 
amount of experience),-Wingen will be 
faced with more strategic substitutions 
and decisions on who he should play in 
which situation.
“...I think that experience can get you 
off to a good start because those guys 
have been there before. We are capable 
of going 12 deep in our bench this year.
I think it gives us a lot of flexibility in 
terms of the lineups we put on the floor.
bench, that is certain to have an effect on 
the players and their performance on 
the court, particularly when their play­
ing time is reduced. This is not necessar­
ily a bad thing, as Wingen pointed out.
“We want to be a pressure defensive 
team, and if players realize they’re not 
going to play 35-40 minutes a game, 
they’re more likely to go out and expend 
100 percent energy the whole time they 
are out there...We want to fast break
more, certainly more than last year.” 5
Everythingto this point has been posi­
tive, but there must be concerns for 
Wingen and the Tartans.
“Our inexperience at the point guard 
position. Another will be finding enough 
minutes for all our players ... probably 
the biggest concern is that we don’t have 
any valleys (letdowns). You can’t expect 
to have a great season with a four game 
losing streak.”
Megahan, Moore return to lead 
women’s team against the UAA]
the story. Reiprish is one of the most 
intense and intelligent players on the 
court. There is no mystery why he was 
selected to be one of the team’s captains.
Byrne, a 6'6" sophomore, contributed 
4.6 points a game and Lassan at 6'5" 
added 2.2 points in limited action.
Joining the front court will be senior
in the past. Everyone realizes no one 
will play 35 minutes a game this year. 
We’ve talked about it, and the players 
realize the playing minutes will be more 
spread out ... That’s going to help us. 
Especially in February, as the end of the 
long season starts to wear down.”
If Wingen plans to go 12 deep into his
By CAROLYN SKABADA
Tartan Staffwriter
The women’s basketball team is be­
ginning their 1993-94 season with a 
dynamic, new group of athletes consist­
ing of five returning letter winners, ten 
freshmen, and a sophomore walk-on. 
Senior co-captain Jeanine Megahan, a 
5'8" forward, is a three year letter win­
ner, and three year All-University Ath­
letic Association selection. She has be­
come the third leading scorer in CMU 
history with 1,059 career points.
Also beginning her fourth season with 
the Tartans is co-captain Mary Moore, a 
5'10" senior forward. A highlight for 
Moore last season was her career-high 
18 points during the victory over Emory 
University. Moore is very optomistic 
about the upcoming season.
“It’ll probably take a couple of games 
for everyone to get used to each other, 
but I know there is a lot of potential to 
have a good season,” said Moore.
Other returning letter winners include 
senior guard Diane Jakubiak, and jun­
ior guards Jenny Gretz and Christa So­
ber. Sober, who is currently studying 
abroad this semester, will be returning 
in Janurary. Gretz, who will be counted 
on for a good deal of the offensive pro­
duction, sees the importance of the new 
recruits.
“The team right now is fundamentally 
sound. It’s just a matter of learning 
what each player can do, in order to click 
as a team. All the freshman are good ball 
players, they just need to adjust to col­
lege life.” said Gretz.
New editions to the team include 
sophomore Yuko Shimuzu, freshman 
guards Kelly Gaitens, Tracy Coalter, 
Kimberly Skena, and Tracy Bach. Bach 
is scheduled for knee surgery in Novem­
ber, but has been conditioning with the 
team.
Freshmen forwards Penny Sum­
merville and Kristen Kupfer are top 
recruits for the Tartans and are both 
expected to start. Kupfer was asked what 
it feels like being a member of a college 
team.
“College level is more demanding. At 
times it is hard to balance school work 
with practice, but you just have to set 
priorities. I’m very excited about being 
on the team,” said Kupfer. Other fresh­
men recruits include forwards Rebecca
MeCadney, Daphne Harris, Michelle 
Cook, and Anne Donovan.
Although four players graduated last 
year, head coach Gerri Seidl has ex­
pressed much enthusiasm about this 
promising combination of players. Her 
previous strategy has been to utilize ten 
players in a game so all starters remain, 
fresh, and other players are allowed 
more playing time. Seidl feels that this 
year, with such a talented group of ath­
letes that luxury will exist.
After ten seasons of impressive coach­
ing with the women’s basketball team, 
Seidl has led the team to three confer­
ence championships and two NCAA Di­
vision III Playoffs. In addition, the Tar­
tans have a 110—45 record over the past 
six seasons. Being chairperson of the 
Atlantic Region Selection Committee, 
and member of both the Rules and the 
Service Award Selection Committees of- 
the NCAA Division III, Coach Seidl has 
remained very influential in all NCAA 
basketball decision making processes. 
Assistant coaching staff for the Tartans 
this year are Emma Fischer and the 
strength training coach, Kathy; 
Paczkowski. Also, Trish Hendrich, Holly 
Ridenour, and Michelle Mejekes will be 
managing the team.
Last year the women’s basketball team 
finished with a 13—12 overall record for 
their fifth consecutive winning season. 
In addition, the Tartans ended the sea­
son in third place out of the nine schools 
in the UAA. This was an exceptional 
finish for a team which was expected to 
place fifth, and that had a poor recruit­
ing season. However, Seidl is proud to 
state, “the team as a whole played above 
their potential,” finishing with a suc­
cessful season.
This year CMU is expected to finish in 
third place in the UAA. In other poll 
results, New York University is favored, 
to come in first, followed by Washington 
University. Official conditioning for the 
women’s basketball team began October
1, however the team has been working 
out together since the first week in Sep­
tember.
The rigorous conditioning progra^' 
included running, strength training, an“ 
foot work drills on a regular basis. Ttos 
Saturday, November 20, the womens, 
basketball team will compete against 
Muskingum College for the first game o 
the 1993—94 season.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 199313Bronx Zoo much more bearable without Steinbrenner
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
“Where have you gone, Joe DiMaggio, our nation 
ImfQS its lonely eyes to you,” is a phrase that has 
jeen popularized over the past few decades in 
«Mrs. Robinson,” a song by Simon and Garfunkel. 
But for the past few years, the phrase has become 
>ven more popular among the legions of New York 
Yankee fans who have watched baseball’s proud­
est organization fall apart.
In 1993, pennant fever returned to the “Bronx 
goo” andit appears as if a dominating Yankee team 
yjll be around for the next several years.
Or so we think.
With the return of winning baseball to the Yan­
kee organization, also came the return of “the 
3oss.” We aren’t talking about Bruce Springsteen 
iere either, although many would hope so. In this 
¡ase “ The Boss” refers to George Steinbrenner, the
majority owner of the Yankees.
For years, Steinbrenner had been a constant 
source of controversy, from his daily firing of man­
agers, to his “bad-mouthing” of Dave Winfield in 
public. But for a year and a half, Yankee fans and 
the rest of the baseball world received a reprieve 
from his antics when he was banned from baseball 
by former commissioner Fay Vincent, for his al­
leged dealings with gambler Howard Spira.
Yet, he is back, and although he kept himself out 
of the spotlight for the majority of the season, 
Steinbrenner was back to his old self by mid- 
August, when the team was still within a game or 
two of first place.
It started with his apparent “motivational” chal­
lenge to the players, saying that by winning the 
division they could prove what kind of men and 
competitors they were.
Although this may not sound so destructive, the 
wording was a little different coming from the 
mouth of Steinbrenner, and thus it wasn’t a mere 
coincidence that the Yankees’ fall from grace be­
gan after Steinbrenner gave his little pep talk.
Steinbrenner also showed himself in fine fashion 
when the Yankees started their nonsensical trad­
ing of highly touted prospects for high-priced, 
washed up, aging veterans. During the time of 
Steinbrenner’s suspension, the Yankees were givenCross-country teams compete Regional Championship
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon cross-country teams com- 
eted at the NCAA Mideast Regional Champion- 
lips this weekend, and although neither of the 
two teams advanced to the NCAA Championships, 
both squads — very young teams — gained valu­
able experience from the regionals.
The men’s team finished fifth overall, four points 
away from fourth place. The squad is the youngest 
team in the 48-team region (approximately 40 
iams competed), according to its coach, Gary 
[eckley.
“We were 17th in the region at the start of the 
iseason, and the kids have come a long way,” Meckley 
said. “Considering everything, they did very well. 
!ost of them had never run in a meet of this caliber 
¡fore, and it’s been 20 days since our last meet. I 
was kind of worried that they would be a little flat. 
;They might have been, but their point total of 136 
tints is about the fourth best total in the last eight 
or 10 years. That’s probably the talent they had. 
They probably ran up to their potential more than 
ty team I’ve had. I was very pleased.”
The individual Tartan scorers were led by senior 
Jim Langer, who finished 14th, with freshman 
Josh Greynolds finishing 28th, sophomore Mike 
Rea 29th, sophomore Scott Moore 30th and sopho­
more Matt Beam 35th.
All of the team members, including Langer, who 
as one more year of eligibility, will be back next
Swimming teams race over weekend
By ERIC STRAUSS
4Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
I The CMU swim team took on 
I three opponents in two matches 
I this weekend, and the results, 
| though not always winning ones, 
jjjpleased head coach Jim Cutrone. 
K “I was very pleased with the 
[ way they swam, despite the 
I losses,” Cutrone said. “As a team 
j they are swimming much faster 
[ at this point in the season than 
Hast year.”
[' The men’s team won one meet 
While dropping two, while the 
women’s team lost all three, but 
jboth teams swam very well 
‘gainst first Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania on Friday, then 
Jrove City College and 
|John Carroll University 
I On Saturday.
8 The men lost by a hair 
| to Indiana on Friday, Jj-04-101, in a reverse of 
jfrst season’s Tartan tri- 
nph. A year ago, the 
ftartans won the final 
|®lay race to top their Di- 
ion II foe, but this year, 
was Indiana that took the final 
Jay and the meet.
Swimming against IUP was 
re ^e men’s greatest chal- 
|e&ges,” senior co-captain 
luPam Narula said. “Last year 
ey thought our victory was a 
, e> and this year, although we 
Dst, it came down to the final vent.”
¡Against Grove City, Cutrone 
Xed up his lineup, and the team 
uggled, falling 116-87, butthe 
_irtans crushed John Carroll 
*»-77.
1 The women fell to Indiana, 147- 
|f ’to Grove City, 113-85, and to 
I0lm Carroll, 108-88.
In Saturday’s tri-meet, sopho­
more Geoff Waller picked up a 
pair ofindividual wins, in the 400 
individual medley and the 500 
freestyle. He was also part of the 
winning400 freestyle relay team, 
along with senior Todd Vandall, 
sophomore Jeff Milton, and
also won the 200 freestyle. 
Narula, a senior, won the 100 
butterfly, and sophomore Matt 
Moe won the 100 breaststroke. 
Moe took second in the 400 indi­
vidual medley, and Chris Graefe 
was third.
“We did not swim with our 
strongest lineup,” Cutrone said, 
“primarily because we had to see 
people swim different events.
Ryan Olshavsky/ eWhdWl -hd GdWvv 
Also, Grove City was rested for 
the meet — this is a big meet for 
Grove City. Plus, another thing 
that hurt us was we swam the 
100-yard distance of the stroke 
events, rather than the 200-yard 
distance.
At this point in the season, we’re 
not ready to sprint, but I’m very 
pleased with the way everybody 
swam.”
Against IUP, Waller won two 
events (the 200 and500 freestyle),
Moe won two (the 200 individual 
medley and the 200 breaststroke),
‘ George Schmidt won one (the 200 
butterfly), Vandall took a pair of 
seconds, and Graefe and Narula
University.
ewjL+ttcAU.
THEARNIHSNJJJUC
ËÎ-
the time to build a minor league system which is on 
par with some of the best in baseball.
But Steinbrenner was famous in the 1980s for 
trading away his prospects for quick fixes. When 
he decided to take a larger part in the team’s affairs 
on the field in August, the same result came about.
First, the Yankees traded highly touted relief 
pitcher Richard Batchelor to the St. Louis Cardi­
nals for Lee Smith, who, despite his 45 saves in the 
National League prior to the trade, had been hit 
extremely hard all year, and was declared by many 
scouts as “washed up.” In a month and a half with 
the Yankees, Smith recorded all of two saves.
The second bad move that Steinbrenner defi­
nitely had a role in was the trade of a prospect to 
the crosstown Mets for aging Frank Tananna. This 
trade may have made sense back in June or July, 
but at the time of the deal, the Yankees were four 
games back and had only two and a half weeks left 
in the season.
Meanwhile the front-running Blue Jays were 
playing the best ball in the majors, and save for a 
miracle, were out of reach.
If anything can be said that is good about 
Steinbrenner, it is his desire to win at all costs. He 
achieved that better than anybody in the late 
1970s. Now it is 1993 and times have changed.
The best move Steinbrenner could make now
would be to let more informed people in the organi­
zation make the baseball decisions and for 
Steinbrenner to take a back seat and attend to 
financial matters.
Buck Showalter is the best young manager in 
baseball, and should be given a lot of room to 
operate— a gift usually not given by Steinbrenner. 
Also, Gene Michael, the general manager, has 
done a masterful job of building a minor league 
system. In these days of expensive free agents, 
building a strong minor league system is the key ^o 
winning over a length of time (a.k.a. Atlanta 
Braves).
Therefore, any doubts about the security of 
Michael’s job should be eliminated now and he 
should be given a vote of confidence by Steinbrenner.
It would be a shame to see the Yankees, the 
proudest organization in all of professional sports, 
miss a chance at becoming one of baseball’s elite 
over the next several years, due to the haplessness 
of Steinbrenner.
Of course, maybe the baseball world could ban 
him again, if no other reason but for the fact that 
he is a complete “ignoramus” when it comes to 
baseball decisions.
Anuj Gupta is a sophomore chemical engineering 
major.
year, Meckley said.
“This is a young team; this is the type of team we 
had years ago when we were one of the best teams 
in the country,” the coach said. “Next year we 
should go on to be nationally ranked, and do very 
well.”
The women’s team did not fare quite so well, 
finishing 19th out of 29 teams. However, coach 
Dario Donatelli’s squad was hampered by injury, 
as two runners could not compete, and number one 
runner Missy Baustert, a sophomore, could not 
complete the race due to some physical problems.
jFreshman Becky Buchheit finished 71st to lead 
the team in the field of roughly 200 runners. Senior 
Cynthia Kolanowski finished 96th, freshman 
Mahalynn Lu finished 124th, senior Jodi Piccolo 
finished 127th, and junior Karen Bryla finished 
145th.
“It was an experience for the younger runners,” 
Donatelli said. ‘This is the biggest regional they’d 
ever had. Approximately, 200 runners started the 
race, and 176 finished. That’s the most there’s ever 
been. Runners kind of have to go through that once 
or twice to get the hang of it, and two freshmen got 
to do it, and hopefully they got a chance to learn.”
The cross-country season is over, but many of the 
runners will be back in competition on January 
16th, when the Indoor Track season opens for both 
the men and women.
Any newcomers interested in running should 
contact the coaches or the athletic department for 
information, Donatelli said.
SPORTS IN SEASON
3 PERSON VOLLEYBALL
3 person games will begin Mon­
day November 15. Schedules can 
be picked up in the IM Office or 
on the official, athletic-dept-news 
bboard.
VOLLEYBALL CHAMPS
MAJORS: Rude Dogs
INTERMEDIATE: TX Spike
WOMEN: SAE
MINORS: PKT Long Blue Tube
BRIDGE
Commissioner is Scott Powell. 
Team captains are to arrange 
their own schedules. Schedules 
can be picked up in the IM Office 
or on the official.athletic-dept- 
news bboard.
BASKETBALL
IM News
Entries due Thursday, Janu­
ary 20, by 4:30.
Entries will be accepted begin­
ning November 15. Last year we 
had 108 teams.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEY­
BALL
Entries due Thursday, Janu­
ary 20, by 4:30. Matches will be 
played Sunday nights in the main 
gym.
Spouses are welcome to play.
BUSINESS
OFFICIALS
Anyone interested in officiat­
ing for basketball or floor hockey, 
please contact Mike Mastroianni 
at X8-2193.
E-MAIL ENTRIES
Just a reminder that all email
entries must be submitted on the 
official entry form found on the 
official, athletic-dept-news 
bboard.
Entries submitted on anything 
other than this form will not be 
accepted. All entries will be due 
24 hours prior to the official due. 
date.
INTRAMURAL BOARD 
MEETING
The next Intramural Board 
Meeting will be held Wednesday, 
November 17, at 11:30 am in the 
Intramural Office.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Edited by 
L.W. KOCHANSKYJ
each finished second in one event.
For the women, the tri-meet 
did not go as well. Sophomore 
Rebecca Fruehan won the 50 
freestyle and the 100 backstroke, 
while senior Denise Fenwick won 
the 200 individual medley and 
the relay team of Fenwick, sopho-
Members of both soccer teams honored by UAA
SOCCER, from page 11
season (0.54, in both 1991 and 1992).
Stivoric, one of the team’s co-captains, scored 
seven points (three goals, one assist), while 
Amezquita led the team in scoring for the second 
straight year with 29 points (nine goals and 11 
assists). Layton scored 13 points (five goals, 
three assists) to finish fourth on the team, de­
spite missing a large portion of the season with a 
knee injury.
The Tartans set school records for most wins in 
a season and most consectuve wins (seven, at the 
start of the season).
For Julie Shackford’s women’s team, senior co- 
captain Rachel Bourn and sophomore midfielder 
Nicole Poisson both earned second-team All- 
UAA honors, while freshman goalkeeper Jill 
Weber earned honorable mention honors.
Bourn scored 11 points (five goals, one assist), 
while Poisson led the team in scoring with 19 
points (seven goals, five assists).
Weber made 64 saves, posted nine shutouts, 
and finished her freshman season with a goals- 
against average of 1.06, as the team set school 
records for the most wins, most goals (53), most 
consecutive wins (6) and most shutouts (10).
sophomore Mike Berty. Vandall more Lani Kaplan, Fruehan, and
freshman Christina Hagopian 
won the 400 freestyle relay. 
Kaplan took a pair of seconds in 
the meet, and junior Sarah 
Broadley had a career best time 
of 27.26 seconds while finishing 
third in the 50 freestyle.
Against Indiana, Fruehan took 
first in the 500 freestyle and sec­
ond in the 200 freestyle.
“With the return of Fenwick 
[who did not swim last 
year] and the addition of 
newcomers Lani and 
Christina, the women’s 
team has improved dra­
matically,” Narula said.
“The men’s team is con; 
tinuing its success from 
the past seasons, while 
the women’s team is find­
ing new success.”
The teams will be in action on 
Tuesday at Westminster College, 
and then Saturday at home 
against Case Western Reserve
classified
COMPUTERS
Laptop 386SX, 5MB memory, 40 MB 
hard drive, modem, mouse, case. Good 
condition. Best offer. 241-5195.
HOUSING
Apartments Unlimited. Fall special; 1 
bedroom, 2 bedroom, efficiency.
Squirrel Hill, Shadyside.
521-7838
Furnished efficiency apartments. 
Clean. Secure Apartment Building. Close 
to campus and CMU shuttle bus.
January occupancy. From $265. Call 
683-0776.
Share large house in Squirrel Hill with 3 
others. Call 422-4743.
FRATS! SORORITIES! STUDENT 
CROUPS! Raise as Much as You Want in 
One Week. $100 ...$600 ...$1500! 
Market applications for the hottest credit 
card ever— New GM Mastercard. Users 
earn BIG DISCOUNTS on GM cars! 
Qualify for free t-shirt and '94 GMC 
jimmy. Call 1-800-950-1039, ext 75.
International employment— make 
money teaching basic conversationalist 
English abroad, japan, Taiwan, and S. 
Korea. Make up to $2,000-$4,000 + per 
month. Many provide room and board + 
other benefits. No previous training or 
teaching certificate required. For more 
information call: (206)632-1146 ext. 
j5236.
SERVICES
Stressed out? Let us pamper you with a 
full body Swedish massage. Male or 
female masseuse.First session absolutely * 
free. Soothing Touch, 683-990S). E
JRAVEL
Free trips and cash! Call us and find out 
how hundreds of students are already - 
earning free trips and lots of cash with 
America's #1 Spring Break company! 
Choose Cancún, Bahamas, Jamaica, 
Panama, Daytona or Padre! Call now! 
Take a break student travel. (800)328- - 
SAVE or (617)-424-8222.
MiseWANTED
JOBS
Agents — No Experience. Company 
expanding — $12-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send SASE for details to: Interna­
tional,! 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
Fun job for attractive female as a
masseuse/hostess at local tanning salon! 
$15.00 per hour plus free tanning and 
aerobics. No experience needed. 681 — 
3540
Alex's Flowers for formals, birthdays, 
love, friendship and more. 687-4128. 
Delivery. Corsages $3.35 and up. 687- 
ALEX.
\fUSIC
CD trader. 201 South Craig Street. 50 
music categories. New releases. 2 for 
$25. Red tag sale $5 CD's. 687-6626.
Send your ads now!!
Earn $70-$80. Married couples needed 
for a research.project on marriage and 
blood pressure. 2 1/2 hour lab visit 
required. Call 624-5992 for more 
information.
Smokers, interested in quitting? The 
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
needs healthy smokers under age 40 to 
participate in a research study to test the 
effectiveness of a nasal spray on smoking 
cessation. Refundable $75 deposit is 
required for the three-week program.
Call 624-4506.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111'

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993
Kosar to Dallas tops list of NFL’s stupid tricks
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
You will not be reading the NFC Re­
port Card at this time so that I may 
bring you a “Quarterback Sneak” Spe­
cial Edition: The Top Eight 1993 Stupid 
Football Tricks. For those of you who 
can’t adjust to a Top Eight List, call it a 
. Top 10 List and insert two of the Cincin- 
b natiBengals’performancesintothenum- 
., ber nine and number 10 slots. O.K., here 
, we go: (read them in order, now):
8 — The Monday Night Announcers 
(what a prize those three are).
7 — Cowher: Not Starting O’Donnell 
' on Opening Day.
6—Houston’s Stupid End Zone Dances 
(especially last week).
' 5 — Cowher again: Punting Right
Down the Middle to Eric Metcalf.
4 — Green Bay: Trading for Eric 
Dickerson.
3 — BabyGate: Houston withholding 
David Williams’ pay for going to see the 
a_ birth of his baby. Why did the Oilers 
want to create controversy when they 
were 1-4?
2 — Bidwell’s ultimatum to Joe Bugel 
' (Coach of the Cardinals).
And the number one Stupid Football 
Trick for the 1993 Football Season is ... 
Well, I think you know what it is. I just 
I want to know exactly what the Browns 
front office is thinking up there in Cleve- 
, land. It’s one thing to cut the guy who is 
. responsible for all success that the 
. Browns have been known to have for the 
last 10+ years, its another to cut him
when you’re in first place and have no 
other quarterback!
Before the Browns cut Bernie Kosar, 
they had three weaknesses that were 
probably going to keep them out of the 
Super Bowl. First, their defense is big 
and slow. Unlike most other “modern” 
NFL defenses, the Browns are willing to 
sacrifice speed for size and strength. 
This is O.K unless you’re playing a run 
and shoot offense. Second, the Browns’ 
secondary is below average. The Steelers 
and Broncos showed that. And finally, 
the Browns don’t seem to be getting 
along. Apparently, the Browns think 
they can fix the last problem by cutting 
Bemie Kosar. That’s O.K for an 0-8 
team, but for a 5-3 team, cutting your 
only good, healthy quarterback is crazy.
Todd Philcox takes over for the Browns 
until Testaverde returns. Apparently the 
Browns have put all their eggs in 
Testaverde’s basket. I find this amaz­
ing, considering the fact that a team like 
the Buccaneers sat him down several 
times last year because of his poor play.
I think the Browns need a new coach. 
If I were coach of the first place Browns, 
I’d certainly make sure I got along with 
Kosar until Testaverde returned. Look 
at Dan Reeves. When he was coaching 
the Broncos, the rumors were always 
circulating about his poor relationship 
with John Elway. Whether it is true or 
not, Dan Reeves and John Elway worked 
together to lead the Broncos to a couple 
of Super Bowls and division champion­
ships. I think Cleveland head coach 
Belichick has to grow up and put his 
personal feelings aside.
Kosar mentioned that in his last play 
as a Brown, receiver Michael Jackson 
and he “drew up the play [a touchdown 
bomb] in the dirt.” In other words, Kosar 
got fired because he decided to call his 
own touchdown pass play. In the real 
world that’s called ‘innovative’ in 
Belichick’s world, that’s called ‘insubor­
dination.’ In Super Bowl X Terry 
Bradshaw threw a bomb from his own 
end zone. Lynn Swann then made one of 
the most beautiful bobbling catches in 
Super Bowl history at the 50 yard line. 
The most remarkable thing however (are 
you listening Belichick?), is that it is 
rumored that only 10 seconds prior, coach 
Chuck Noll had sent in a running play. 
Yes, quarterbacks even change the 
coach’s play in the Super Bowl! You 
don’t have to worry about even getting to 
a Super Bowl, Belichick, it isn’t going to 
happen.
Week 10 was oh-so-good to me. I went 
five for five putting my overall record at 
31 out of 50. Let’s start with Monday 
Night Football.
The Chiefs didn’t look pretty, but they 
still held on to defeat the Packers, 23— 
16. The Packers could have won this 
game if they hadn’t turned the ball over 
so many times. The Chiefs may be in 
first place, but it is obvious that they are 
going to need a healthy Joe Montana to 
get to the Super Bowl.
The “Team of the Week” award goes to 
the Dallas Cowboys. The Cowboys re­
turned to the top of the NFC East by 
trouncing the Giants 31-9. Right now 
the Cowboys are by far the best team in 
the NFL. Troy Aikman pulled a ham­
string in the game, but in the long run I 
don’t think its going to matter much. As 
long as Emmitt Smith stays healthy, the 
Cowboys have a good chance to return to 
the Super Bowl.
The Philadelphia Eagles capture the 
“Bosworth Award” again. Their offen­
sive performance against the average 
Cardinals’ defense was pitiful. The Car­
dinals are now 3-6 with this 16-3 vic­
tory. However, the Cardinals are going 
to have to go 6-1 if they want to keep 
their coach.
Goodbye Bemie, goodbye Browns. The 
Broncos handled the Browns last week 
with their 29-16 victory. Elway passed
for 244 yards and three TDs as the 
Broncos elevated their record to 5-3. 
The Oilers and Warren Moon are back 
just in time to take the Browns’ place as 
the Steelers’ challenger for the AFC Cen­
tral. The Oilers beat the Seahawks 24- 
14 in a game that saw Moon throw for 
369 yards and two TDs (and two stupid 
end zone dances). The Chargers put 30 
points on the board again as they cruised 
past the Vikings. The disappointing Vi­
kings are on their way down while the 
Chargers seem to be on their way up 
(both teams are now 4-4).
The Patriots and the Bengals go by the 
motto: “Almost on any given Sunday.” 
The Patriots seemed more than happy 
to let the Bills come back and tie them 
with 14 seconds left. Then the Patriots 
let the Bills win in overtime so that they 
could run their record to 7-1. The Bengals 
(with some help from the Steeler of­
fense) jumped on the Steelers 16-0, but 
were more than happy to let the Steelers 
score the next 24 points and go to 5-3 on 
the season.
In Chicago, the Bears’ offense started 
the game playing like a panda, but it 
roared back late in the game. With the 
score in favor of the Raiders, 16-14, 
Kevin Butler proceeded to miss a 30 
yard field goal, letting the Raiders off 
the hook. I still think the Bears will do 
fine under Wannstedt, despite the fact it 
doesn’t look too good for them this year. 
All the 4-4 teams in the AFC seem to be 
on their way up.
However, unlike the Oilers and Charg­
ers, the Jets are beating the best the 
league has to offer to get their victories. 
With their 27-10 victory over the Dol­
phins, the Jets have now beaten the 
Dolphins twice, as well as the Giants.
Finally, the games that didn’t mean 
too much. The Redskins found victory 
number two as they beat the Colts 30— 
24. Hey. If you want to hear good an­
nouncers, watch Joe Theismann (and
that other guy); I can see why he wj 
such a good quarterback in his tii^ 
Also, the Lions, with 187 yards 
their underpaid running back, Barrv 
Sanders, beat the Buccaneers 23~o j 
think the Lions are going to win the 15N 
oentral simply because nobody e]Se 
seems to want it.
Top Five Picks for Week 12
1. New Orleans Saints at San Fran, 
cisco 49ers.
How the mighty have fallen. 
September, the Saints had the big ^ 
vantage in this matchup. They were 
undefeated and playing like an unde, 
feated team. Now it’s the 49ers who 
have the advantage. The Saints are in 
trouble: 49ers 20-7.
2. Pittsburgh Steelers at Denver Bron- 
cos.
This one is tough to call. The Bronco^ 
offense has been running wild, but its 
defense has allowed a ton of 
Hometown bias tells me to take the 
Steelers in a squeaker: Steelers 20—17.
3. Houston Oilers at Cleveland Browns.
It’s been weeks since the Oilers have
had a challenge. However, with a below 
average secondary and no quarterback, 
the Browns’ ship is going to sink. Oilers 
24-13.
4. N.Y. Giants at Philadelphia Eagles.
The Giants were brought back to real­
ity with their loss to the Cowboys. How­
ever, Dan Reeves always has his team* 
prepared. Giants 20-14.
5. L.A. Raiders at San Diego Charg-i 
ers.
The Chargers are scoring points! The' 
Raiders showed that they can pass; 
against that Charger defense a coupler 
weeks ago. Raiders 30-21.
John Weber is a junior civil engineer-j 
ing major.New Jersey, Florida provide biggest surprises this season
The Puck Stops Here
By Allan Bourdius
The National Hockey League (NHL) officials’ 
-strike is still on for Monday. Commissioner Gary 
Bettman presented the league’s final offer to the 
^National Hockey League Officals Association 
(NHLOA) on Wednesday. Under the Bettman plan, 
all NHL officials would receive a 65 percent pay 
'"increase incrementally over four years. Referees 
would make an extra 29 percent and linesmen an 
extra 26 percent this season. The first year in­
creases alone would place NHL officials well above 
'their peers in the National Basketball Association. 
•NHLOA representatives have yet to say whether 
or not they will accept the offer. Negotiators had 
previously demanded an instant 60 percent wage 
hike.
If the strike happens, the NHL is prepared to 
employ replacement officials. Approximately 60 
Tecruits from the American, International, and 
East Coast Hockey Leagues, the NCAA, and inter­
national hockey have been training for the past 
<^week in Indianapolis. NHL Senior Vice-President 
and Director of Hockey Operations Brian Burke 
has clearly stated that no work stoppage will be
tolerated and that Monday’s games will be played 
as scheduled. NHL general counsel Jeffrey Pash 
reportedly sent a letter to all of the officials stating 
that their employment cannot be guaranteed fol­
lowing a strike.
If that isn’t bad enough, once again Mario 
Lemieux is watching hockey from the press box. 
Unconfirmed reports out of the Penguins’ organi­
zation say that Lemieux could miss as much as two 
months while his back heals completely from pre­
season surgery. The Lemieux situation is hurting 
the Penguins in more ways than just his lack of 
contribution. Penguin fans have to question the 
team’s management, most particularly coach Eddie 
Johnston and general manager Craig Patrick. If 
Lemieux wasn’t healthy, he had absolutely no 
business playing. Johnston and Patrick are negli­
gent in looking out for their player’s and team’s 
best interests. The effect of Mario’s see-saw situa­
tion on his fellow players is also quite evident. At 
the beginning of the season, the Penguins’ effort 
was well distributed among the entire lineup, with 
the Martin Straka, Jaromir Jagr, and Doug Brown 
line filling most of the void left by Lemieux. After 
Lemieux’s return, the other players treated him 
like a knight in shining armor and expected him to 
do it all from the first faceoff. Well, he couldn’t and 
now that he’s out again, the Penguins play like 
they don’t know what they’re doing.
If the Penguins were smart, they’d encourage 
Lemieux to retire or try to find somebody stupid 
enough to trade for him. I find it highly unlikely 
that Lemieux will ever play again with the great­
ness he once had. If he comes back, he’ll be the ice 
hockey equivalent of Joe Montana: one hit, and
he’s gone for two or more weeks. Penguin manage­
ment needs to settle the question of Lemieux’s 
status once and for all. If he’s gone, then at least the 
team can concentrate on the games at hand, rather 
than holding out hopes for the wonders Lemieux 
might (but probably can’t) do when and if he 
returns.
Enough about the Penguins. The surprise fran­
chise so far this season has been the New Jersey 
Devils. After Thursday night’s game against the 
Philadelphia Flyers, the Devils regained both the 
Atlantic Division and Eastern Conference leads 
and are in sole possession of third place in the 
NHL. The team is 12-3-0 (24 points) on the season 
and is currently sixth in the NHL in goals scored 
per game, third in goals allowed per game, and first 
in winning and points percentages. The Devils 
have gotten offensive contribution from nearly 
everybody in the lineup. The team has six players 
with five or more goals. Veteran left wing Stephane 
Richer is currently leading the team with five goals 
and 12 assists for 17 points. Richer has developed 
into more of a playmaker than he had been in 
previous seasons, as his assist totals indicate. 
Center Corey Millen is the current team leader in 
goals with seven. Goaltending has been split be­
tween Chris Terreri and rookie Martin Brodeur. 
Terreri is 7-1-0 with a 2.52 goals against average 
and a .919 save percentage.
The second most surprising team has to be the 
Florida Panthers. If the season ended today, the 
Panthers would make the playoffs. They are cur­
rently 7-7-3,17 points.
They are ahead in the standings of preseason 
favorites such as the New York Islanders, Quebec
Nordiques, Winnipeg Jets, and the Detroit Red 
Wings. The highlight so far in the Panthers’ inau­
gural season was a 3-1 victory -over the Stanley 
Cup champion Ganadiens at the Forum in Montreal 
Wednesday night. The Panthers have to thank 
veteran goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck for their 
success to date. The Panthers are currently sev­
enth in the league in goals against, allowing just 
2.94 per game.
The biggest disappointment to date has to be the 
Buffalo Sabres. The team is floundering in next to 
last place in the Northeast Division and is only 
ahead of the Hartford Whalers, Tampa Bay Light­
ing, and the Edmonton Oilers in total points. Star 
right wing Alexander Mogilny finally returned to 
the lineup after missing the first 11 games of the 
season because of a preseason injury. Hopefully he 
will inject some life into the Sabres’ sagging of­
fense. Centers Dale Hawerchuck and Pat 
LaFontaine aren’t playing nearly as well as they 
are capable of. The real problem with the Sabres is 
defense.
Only the Ottawa Senators allow more goals per 
game than the Sabres. Overall, the Sabres have 
been scored against the most (68 times). Their; 
defense has been more or less nonexistent and they 
need to make a trade, possibly for a goaltender as 
well as a defenseman or two.
One player who might be available is New Jersey 
defenseman Tommy Albelin, but it would seem 
that the Sabres could offer the Devils little in: 
return.
Allan Bourdius is a fifth year senior in applied 
history and industrial management.“Image is everything” philosophy in the Jordan-less NBA
Out of Left Field
by Eric Strauss
When Charlotte played Orlando last 
, week, two of basketball’s rising young 
. stars, centers Alonzo Mourning of the 
Hornets and Shaquille O’Neal of the 
Magic, took over the national spotlight. 
With the retirement of Michael Jordan, 
the NBA needs new stars to step up and 
maintain the league’s prominence with 
the American public.
The NBA has always been a league 
where, to borrow a slogan from tennis
¦ player Andre Agassi, “image is every­
thing.” How else can you explain the 
marketing of “Baby Jordan,” aka Harold
¦ Miner, a backup guard with the Miami 
Heat? Miner can’t play defense, his shot 
selection is questionable, and he is im­
mature, but he can dunk a basketball 
like no one else (he won the Slam Dunk 
contest at the All-Star game as a rookie 
last season).
Stars like Charlotte’s Larry Johnson 
and Seattle’s Shawn Kemp have all be­
come media darlings before establish­
ing their skills. Even rookies like Golden 
State’s Chris Webber and Orlando’s 
Anfemee Hardaway have made head­
lines before playing a single NBA con­
test.
Of course, not every player in the NBA 
is a star or makes headlines. A surpris­
ing number of them are journeymen, 
has-beens, and never-weres.
Players like journeyman centers Bill 
Wennington (a former first-round pick 
who never panned out), LeRon Ellis (a 
first-round pick ofthe Clippers two years 
ago), and Steve Scheffler (a former Big 
10 player-of-the-year) litter the rosters 
ofthe three-time champion Chicago Bulls 
and the up-and-coming Seattle 
SuperSonics, respectively.
Undrafted rookies like Bob Martin 
(Clippers), Keith Tower (Orlando), and 
Antonio Harvey (Lakers) made squads
£#0
Micki Kochanskyj/ Tartan Art Staff
ahead of players who were picked in the 
54-man draft.
The best example of strange roster 
maneuvers is third-string Boston Celtics
rookie center Matt Wenstrom, who 
should be accustomed to sitting on the 
bench because he was the third-string 
center at North Carolina.
Wenstrom, a former high school All- 
American from Texas, went to Chapel 
Hill and contributed roughly three min­
utes per game over his four-year career.
He may have even been in enough 
games to score in double-digits once or 
twice while backing up Pete Chilcutt (a 
first-round pick of the Kings two years 
ago), Eric Montross (a likely lottery pick 
next year), and Kevin Salvadori (a mo­
bile seven-footer who may be drafted).
Wenstrom is big (7-0, 250 pounds), 
but slow and immobile. He’ll give the 
Celtics six fouls off the bench, but on a 
team desperate to replace legend Robert 
Parrish (who retires after this year), 
Wenstrom can only hinder the develop­
ment of the talented but raw Acie Earl, 
the team’s first-round pick.
The nicest thing anyone has ever said 
about Wenstrom was when Doug Collins 
suggested the Phoenix Suns pick him 
with the last pick in the draft because he 
was big.
The Suns took Utah guard Byron Wil­
son, who they cut, so maybe Collins 
knew what he was talking about.
So while the NBA runs and dunks on ^ 
televisions all over America this year, 
and O’Neal, Mourning, Webber, Di’ 
kembe Mutombo, Christian Laettner, 
and others stake their claims to the 
“best player” crown left behind by Jor­
dan, fans will be seeing young players at^ 
their best, rising up from behind the* 
Jordans and Charles Barkleys of the 
league to become the next generation o 
NBA superstars.
Fans of the 1990s will be paying to see 
Miner jam and 7-6 Shawn Bradley bloc 
shots, and the stars of the 1980s, tiei 
original Dream Team, will become a 
pleasant memory.
And when a big center wearing num­
ber 50 gets off the bench to play his firs^ 
game for the Celtics, the “Air Wenstrom 
era will have begun.
Eric Strauss is the assistant Sports 
Editor for the Tartan and a sophomore 
creative writing and applied history 
major.

---------------------------------------------------

Greeks give through charities, programs
????*
PILam brother Glen Devries struts his stuff.DU brother Andy “Rounder” Ortiz dressed as a cowboy, and ended up taking the crown.
;Ph! Kap brother, Dane Lovejoy, was voted biggest Heartthrob.'» '
;Sig Tau addresses sexism
¡By JESSICA FANG
Fartan Junior Staffwriter
I! On Tuesday, November 9 from 
¡6:30 to 8:30 pm, the brothers and 
"’edges of Sigma Tau Gamma 
. Jsted an interactive discussion 
entitled, “Eliminating Obstacles 
.®d Establishing Limits.” The 
presentation was given by Dr. 
f>usan Ambrose, history profes­
sor and director of the University 
Reaching Center, and Dr. Rea 
ifeeland, associate director and 
isychologist. The purpose of the 
presentation was to “bring sex- 
jsm out into the open to build 
, ^st in the Margaret Morrison 
immunity.”
! Jhe presentation began with a 
^Oeo of short clips of different 
f ypea °f sexism and the situa- 
• P°ns-in which they arise. It 
ee®ed that the general opinions 
ipven by the video were that men 
that women are treated 
filially, but women feel that they
jfttm't.
Sexism can be passed on to us 
1 many subtle ways,” says 
j .^land. “Television and mov- 
our peers, and parents all 
¦ °t the way we may view things 
i!^ attitudes that may affect the
rest of our lives.”
In the lecture, scenarios in aca­
demic and social environments 
were given. The instructions were 
to identify problematic behavior 
by analyzing the scenarios, re­
porting the interpretations, and 
generating alternatives. The au­
dience split up into small groups, 
discussed the given scenario, and 
gave it a rating of one to four, 
based on how sexist and how in­
appropriate they thought the be­
havior was.
“We have to look at two spheres 
— academic and social,” said 
Ambrose. “Men say ‘gee, these 
are no big deal,’ but to feel these 
scenarios every day, seven days a 
week, 365 days a year can be 
disturbing.”
The scenarios were varied, 
some amusing, some almost 
shocking, but they all had two 
things in common — they were 
all real cases that had previously 
occurred on college campuses 
around the country, and they all 
provoked thought amongst the 
audience. When the floor was 
opened to discussion, it was dis­
covered that there were many 
different interpretations as to 
Please see SEXISM, page L3
Jeff Chambers, representing PiKA, wore his most conservative trunks.
DU wins Mr. Fraternity
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Staffwriter
Every year, the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority hosts the Mr. Frater­
nity Competition to raise money for the Central Ohio Lung Associa­
tion. This competition has been held for seven years now as a 
memorial to Karin Johnson, a Kappa Alpha Theta sister who died of 
an acute asthma attack in 1984. All of the proceeds from the ticket 
sales go specifically to the Karin Johnson Memorial Asthma Re­
search Fund.
Theta usually raises hundreds of dollars, but this year ticket sales 
skyrocketed and sold out. About seven hundred people attended this 
year’s event, raising an astounding three thousand dollars.
One man from each fraternity was selected a couple of weeks ago 
for competition. Most of the seats were filled by members of each of 
the 13 fraternities there to support their participant.
Michael Tomczak, backup quarterback of the Pittsburgh Steelers, 
initially introduced all of the contestants. His cameo is barely worth 
mentioning, considering the fact that he did not know the Greek 
alphabet. His approach to the pronunciation of many of the letters 
got this event off to a weak start.
As the competition belatedly got underway, beginning with the 
Beachwear competition, the crowdbrokeinto spiritedyellingmatches 
as each participant stepped on stage. Each competitor performed to 
music, ranging from “2001 Space Odyssey” to “YMCA,” while parad­
ing about. Most of the men were conservatively dressed, although no 
one in the audience missed a beat when one of the brothers flashed 
his red bikinis.
The talent segment followed the beachwear competition. Now, I do 
not want to insult anyone here, but brothers, you just are not 
talented! Most of the performances deserve more credit for creativity 
and audience “participation.” The most memorable, but best forgot­
ten, incident was during the first act, a stand-up comedy routine by 
Mr. Alpha Epsilon Pi, Jeremy Tobman. The audience stopped its 
shouting competition for a few seconds and unanimously joined 
together to sing “Na na na na, hey hey hey, goodbye.” After this, 
though, many of the talents mistakenly seemed great.
Mr. Phi Kappa Theta, electrical engineering sophomore Jeff Cham­
bers, warmed our hearts with a touching rendition of the never- 
forgotten “Love Boat” theme; Mr. Delta Upsilon, sophomore civil 
engineering major Andy “Flounder” Ortiz, churned our stomachs 
with his eating fest of jello, ketchup, whipped cream, and cake; and, 
in the talented masochist segment, Mr. Kappa Sigma, junior indus­
trial management major Jerry Walter, and Mr. Delta Tau Delta, 
MCS freshman Jason Ermer, went head to head as one ran a string 
through his nose and mouth simultaneously and the other pierced 
his arm with the world’s largest hatpin.
The crowd remained supportive and surprisingly patient through 
each performance. Unfortunately, at times things moved slowly, and 
it was, well, uh ... well, okay, it was boring.
The rest of the competition passed quite swiftly in comparison as 
the gentlemen changed for the toga competition. Mr.Phi Kappa 
Theta, junior industrial management major Dane Lovejoy, rede­
fined the definition of toga with a tiny piece of cloth that hugged his 
body in a couple of spots, but, beyond a doubt, even in the minds of 
the screaming women, Mr. Delta Upsilon stole the show as he 
walked onto the darkened stage and then turned on his toga. Yes, 
you got it, a toga constructed of hundreds of tiny colorful lights. The 
crowd roared its approval.
From togas to formal wear ... I would say the togas were more 
flattering. I had forgotten how stiff and zombie-like guys become in 
tuxedos. Each gentleman escorted a sequined sorority member and 
handed her a single yellow rose, except Mr. Phi Kappa Theta who 
opted for a bouquet of red roses, again making the women swoon.
At last, the final event: the question and answer segment. Each 
contestant faced one question, mainly about past and future lives 
and accidents with unexpected bodily functions. Most of the answers 
came and went, deservedly unrecognized, but there are always those 
one or two achieving spontaneous shock value. When asked “If you 
were a transvestite for a day, what would you wear and where would 
you go?,” Mr. Theta Xi, industrial administration master’s student 
Jarret Laskey, astounded the audience with his response, “I would 
wear a noose around my neck and find the nearest tree.”
Mr. Pi Lambda Phi, senior biology major Glen Devries, also 
commanded attention when asked about which Walt Disney charac­
ter he most accurately characterized and why. Amidst the “Goofy!” 
shouts from the audience, he coyly and swiftly responded, “That 
would be the genie from Aladdin because if you rub my lamp, you get 
your wish.”
So here the competition ended. Audience votes were tallied along 
with the votes of the judges from the faculty, staff, and administra­
tion. Time creeped by as Jack Maloy from WDVE auctioned off 
various mugs, cassettes, and posters to raise more money for this 
event. Then a video filler of the Mr. Fraternity rehearsals was 
shown, and general boredom ruled the land as we all j ust wanted to 
know the outcome.
The Philanthropy Award went to Mr. Beta Theta Pi, John Knutson, 
senior industrial management major, for selling the most tickets. 
Mr. Delta Tau Delta won the Congeniality Award for being the 
easiest to work with. Mr. Phi Kap, voted Heartthrob Contestant by 
the women of the audience, got first runner up. And, surprise beyond 
belief, Mr. Delta Upsilon, Andrew “Flounder” Ortiz, took the crown.
Mr. Fraternity was filled with lots of fun and sarcastic spoofs. It 
was an entertaining event, a bit on the lengthy side, geared towards 
spirited Greek competition and especially toward raising funds for 
important research.
olume 88. Issue 11The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania15 November 1993

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993
Queen doesn't celebrate Thanksgiving in U.K.
Allen In Residence
By Micki Kochanskyj
Thanksgiviftgis fast approaching, and 
I still don’t know how many I’m cooking 
for. I’ve really gotten into this American 
food fest. I do the whole thing — slow 
roasted turkey, all the trimmings, even 
down to the apple cider from a plastic 
gallon jug and decorated pine cones on 
the table.
The first time I cooked a Thanksgiving 
turkey I called my Mom back home in 
England for advice. “But it’s Novem­
ber!” she cried. “Christmas isn’t for a 
whole month yet!” You see, they don’t 
have Thanksgiving in England, and the 
only time you eat turkey for dinner is on 
Christmas day. In the same way that no 
Thanksgiving dinner would be without 
certain crucial ingredients — cranberry 
sauce, pumpkin pie — English Christ­
mas dinner would not be without plate- 
side ‘crackers’—paper cylinders which, 
when pulled by two people, make a loud 
snap and burst apart revealing a color­
ful paper hat, joke, and plastic prize. 
Incidentally, Christmas dinner is always 
eaten at 2:00 pm in order for people to be 
nice and full when watching the Queen’s 
speech — an annual event 
of no real importance actu­
ally watched closely by 
about a third of the people 
on earth. (That’s all the 
former colonies.)
I spend a great deal of 
time explaining American 
holidays to my English 
friends and vice versa.
Here’s a low-down (as we 
Brits say) of those wacky 
English holidays:
Any day that businesses 
and banks are closed (May 
Day, the Queen’s birthday, 
etc.) is simply called a Bank 
Holiday.
Remembrance Sunday is 
like Veteran’s Day, only 
people watch the Royal 
Family lay wreaths at the 
foot ofthe Cenotaph, a huge 
white structure in the 
middle of a main London 
road commemorating the 
unknown soldier. Anyone 
who’s anyone wears a plas­
tic poppy in their lapel which they buy 
from a street vendor to raise money for
old soldiers.
We have Halloween, but without the 
dressing up, trick-or-treating, or pump­
kin carving. What does that leave? Not a
eagerly awaited by all. It’s our fireworks 
bash, celebrating the time when a 16th 
century dude named Guy Fawkes plot­
ted to blow up the Houses of Parliament.
His plot was foiled, but not 
until the gunpowder had 
been discovered in the 
basement. He and his co­
horts were ceremoniously 
hung, drawn, and quar­
tered for their insolence. 
We Brits celebrate this ex­
ample offreedom of speech 
by building huge bonfires, 
letting off the fireworks 
(which represent the ex­
ploding Parliament), and 
burning in effigy, a stuffed 
scarecrow-like figure 
called a Guy (representing 
you-know-who). For weeks 
prior to this, children push 
the ‘Guy’ around in a 
wheelbarrow collecting 
money for charity. So if 
you’re across the pond at 
that time of year and are 
asked “A penny for the 
guy?” by children on the 
street, you needn’t fear. 
Dickens’ “Oliver” has not 
Micki Kochanskyj/Tartan Staffwriter returned!
whole lot, actually. Last but not least is Boxing Day, the
November 5 is Guy Fawkes Night, day after Christmas Day, which is also
celebrated in all the former colonf^ 
This is when you visit relatives 
their gifts, and eat cold turkey, 
Christmas Pudding, and satsumas*^ 
type of tangerine). If you like cro»j; 
this is also the day you abandon y0( 
family to go bargain-hunting at the bii 
gest store sales ofthe year. It originatg 
in the Victorian era (along with ti 
ancient Germanic practice of bringing 
fir tree inside at Christmas) as a way 
thanking servants for taking such gjjj 
care of their masters throughout th'j 
year. The household staff would be giVjfl 
a box of cash, leftovers or cake, a‘nj 
would get the day off. Nowadays, tf 
aspect of Boxing Day is observed 
giving a ‘bonus’ to your friendly mi 
man during the Christmas season. :
Of course, like American Presidents' 
the Queen can call national holidays ® 
well, but they’re rare events. The 
one was Charles and Diana’s weddlif 
day, he being the heir to the throne and 
all. Hey, any excuse for a break is'aj 
right by me.
MickiKochanskyj, senior creative writ, 
ing major, is saving up all her holicliy 
time for the week after graduation, i»ft* 
she plans to make up for all the sleep ski 
lost during the four years it will hgilt 
taken her to get her degree. Oh, and shi’ll 
party.Email reboot confuses, angers
Askew, No Shoes
By Matt Messner
You are in a maze of twisted 
sentences, all alike. Greetings 
fellow spelunkers in 
this cavern of wilted 
prose. Your assign­
ment this week is to 
separate this col­
umn into words with 
an exacto knife, scis­
sors, chainsaw, or 
sharpened imple­
ment of your choice, 
and arrange them
ger than a bread box, was perched 
atop a rather dead tree and look­
ing quite in thought. The quadru­
ped did stare down into the ra­
vine in such a manner as to in­
spire both awe and acorn fetish 
in all who gazed upon him. To my 
faithful companion said I, “Lo!, 
faithful companion. See yon shad­
owy savage? Methinks we have 
stumbled upon the almighty 
squirrel o’ the hill. What say you 
we query him for advice?” And
It is a good thing not to send 
email at 3:30 am. This is largely 
because you can't. At 3:30ish the 
server reboots and I get kicked 
off. It is sad and pitiable.
into a threatening letter. Then sayeth he, “I aver, ‘tis a thought
paste them onto tastefully 
charred paper and mail to a 
friend. (Hint: The words 
‘chainsaw* and ‘knife’ should be 
useful. Scattered throughout the 
column will be other suitable 
phrases.)
The shortest distance between 
two points is a straight line. The 
most interesting is a benzigon.
well thunk. But let us first hence 
with this archaic speech and 
adopt a more modern style.” And 
I, “So shall it be done.” And with 
that we proceeded to turn to ad­
dress the squirrel of the hill. The 
squirrel, already awakened from 
its contemplative state by our 
speech, seemed ill at ease. Un­
doubtedly, it was a sign of disre-
Following such a route in my wan- spect to question him from supe- 
derings one day, I spied a small rior altitude. I suspect this is why 
furry creature clad in darkest he scurried off, leaving our ques- 
black below. This beast, not big- tions unanswered. Still, a happy
day it was, for few ever see such 
a rodent and live to tell the tale.
If you’re conscious and you 
know it, don’t clap your hands. If 
you’re conscious and you know it, 
wonder why. If you’re conscious 
and you know it, don’t bother at 
all to show it, ’cause you’re con­
scious and we’ll be too if you clap 
your hands.
[Mandatory nap-time. Help 
yourself to some milk and cook­
ies, class, then lie down and take 
a nap.]
The custom­
ary ‘telephone 
paragraph’ 
shall be hence­
forth replaced 
with the ‘what’s 
wacky about 
email’ para-
................... graph. Seeing as
both are meth­
ods of communication, we hope 
our readers don’t have too much 
trouble making the switch. (If 
you have a complaint, simply call 
mmdm+@andrew.cmu.edu dur­
ing normal business hours and 
leave a brief message at the tri­
tone.) “The mail transport mecha­
nism is inconsequential — Jim 
Morris.” This statement is to be 
found buried in a hidden file at 
the bottom of every messages 
folder in the andrew filing sys­
tem. Well, I suppose it’s good not 
Please see ASKEW, page L3
Open 7 Days a week 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. 
Daily lunch specials
Serving hoagies, sandwiches, dinners, pizzas and much moie. 
Monday $3.00 Spaghetti special 
Tuesday Fettuccini Alfredo or Fettuccini Carbonara Sccond Ave
201 Saline 
in Greenfield 
421-0532
IF IDEAS ARE IMPORTANTTO YOU, IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN 
PHILOSOPHY AND THOUGHT, DON'T MISS THIS LECTURE!
Rational Egoism in Ayn Rand’s
The Fountainhead
A lecture by Dr. Andrew Bernstein
In her remarkable, best-selling novel 93B yJAvSn5v3BnOT Ayn Rand champions a 
philosophy of rational egoism.
This revolutionary philosophy holds that reason is each man's only proper guide 
for action, and his only proper goal should be his own personal happiness.
Dr. Bernstein, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Pace University, will discuss 
how 93B yJAvSn5v3BnO—with its theme of independence in thought and 
action—concretizes and dramatizes Objectivism, Ayn Rand's philosophy of
rational egoism.
ISTUDENTS2Ì
OBJECTIVISM
Sponsored by the CMU Political 
Speakers’ Forum Board, the Ayn Rand 
Institute, and the CMU Activities Fee
THURSDAY, NOV. 18 
7:30 PM
DOHERTY 2315, CMU
FREETO STUDENTS/ 
$2 NON-STUDENTS
CALL ERIN AT 521- 
8651 FOR DETAILS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993L3Greeks study campus sexism
Clasife from page LI
$at was and wasn’t sexist.
"“We purposely didn’t define sex- 
L 'because we were interested in 
;lng what your interpretation 
'a” said Ambrose, 
there was active participation 
,‘jfl the audience and most 
tjited to share 
yr definition 
jf-;sexism and 
jow they felt it 
¿ouldbehand-
people to think about fundamen- garet Morrison apartments, they
tal stereotypes,” said Ambrose, 
“particularly innocent items 
which may be sexist ...Walk out 
of here thinking about behavior 
and actions.”
The presentation was organized 
by Kamal Garg, a junior com-
“There is a common misconception 
that we [fraternities] don't do 
enough for campus besides booth 
and buggy. The brothers are taking 
this very seriously. ”
— Kamal Garg, 
SigTau Philanthropy Chair
'tome of the 
i of prob- 
e'matic behav- 
0r identified 
/ere! patroniz- 
Dg and conde-
iqejiding atti-
, belittling 
woman’s abili- 
¡ie's, insulting jokes, objectifying
were “a stock of men in a pre­
dominantly female environment.” 
He felt that it was important to 
make everyone aware of the fact 
that sexism does exist in every 
age group.
“There is a common misconcep­
tion that we 
[fraternities] 
don’t do enough 
for campus be­
sides booth and 
bug-gy. The 
brothers are 
taking this very 
seriously. It’s 
time fraterni­
ties took a role 
in leadership on 
this campus. We 
are a strong tool 
which can
puter science major and Philan- change viewpoints — more than 
ivoinen, assuming a power posi- thropy Chair for Sigma Tau just booth and buggy. We have 
¡on, and trivializing a woman’s Gamma. He said that the presen- opened lines of communication 
esponse. The strategies to com- tation went wonderfully and owes tonight, and we are trying to have 
k sexism if you are accused of it thanks to the Housing Office and an effect on the whole Greek com- 
^ude thinking before speak- Student Affairs. munity.”
apologizing, explaining the Garg organized the presenta- Garg believes the short-term 
tion because “there is a stereo­
type about fraternity houses in 
that they are all sexist. We’re 
trying to break it down.”
He said that when Sig Tau was 
in Doherty Apartments, they 
were cut off from campus and
Mention, and avoiding a re- 
jeated incident.
‘Sometimes we may think, why 
ffould anybody do this? You’d 
,ave to be drunk to do something 
stupid,” said Freeland, when 
isked if these events occur.
goal for the presentation was for 
the fraternity to benefit, to gain 
education and awareness. The 
long-term goal is for everybody 
on campus to be aware of sexism.
“We have to face it,” said Garg. 
“And then we move toward chang-
“What we really want is for now that they are living in Mar- ing things.”Psychic friends are people, too
of caffeine, the person who made that little fabric/ 
poetry-on-transparency/wooden seat in front of 
CFA (it made me happy), my friends, my editor 
(this does not imply she is not a friend), Escher, the 
rain (for falling), the sky (for not falling), the 
fad and pitiable. Why don’t they change the reboot ground (for holdingme up), Amy Rose, anyone who 
time when no one is awake,, like 6:30? The ever had the humanity to smile at me though they 
bpinion held in this announcement is not nec.essar- knew me not, anyone who ever had the politeness 
ily the opinion of its author, The Tartan, Zelia, to smile at me though they knew me, Michelle, the
ASKEW, from page L2
ta take yourself too seriously. Public service an­
nouncement: It is a good thing not to send email at 
):30 am. This is largely because you can’t. At 
5:30ish the server reboots and I get kicked off. It is
Margaret 
{Thatcher, Mr. 
Clean, or any 
iitchen appli­
ance. We now 
feturn you to 
your irregularly 
Scheduled very- 
harrow-cast
If you’re conscious and you know it, 
don’t clap your hands. If you’re con­
scious and you know it, wonder why. 
If you’re conscious and you know it, 
don’t bother at all to show it, ’cause 
you’re conscious and we’ll be too if 
you clap your hands.
I Paragraph of 
non-sequiturs.
A14" trinitron 
monitor will 
) trigger the gate
pt the entrance to the CFA parking lot. Reading in 
frees is a good way not to fall asleep. I actually 
know what is behind the skinny door in UCC, but 
I won’t tell you. CMU has their own watermarked 
stationery. Green is the color of my true love’s hair. 
’> ¡This paragraph contains 68 words and 381 charac­
ters.
. This is the last edition of Askew... to be printed 
this semester. Please allow me the liberty of mak­
ing a few thank yous. I wish to extend my gratitude 
to all my readers, both verified and in the closet, all 
fyofiny great many anonymous sources, the inventor
almighty Bob 
and his sand- 
wich-maker, 
the Studio 
Theatre, all 
the trees on 
campus, any­
one I left out, 
and anyone 
who needs a 
little thanks. 
This column 
was brought 
to you by the 
ascii charac­
ter ‘ae’ and the roman numeral ‘IV.’ EOF.
Matt Messner, (mmdm+) CIT freshman, is a 
member of the psychopathic friends network. He 
would, on their behalf, like to ask you to call and 
save them the trouble of choosing people randomly 
from phone book. With a little love, most psycho­
paths can become model citizens. Open your arms 
andyou won’t get stabbed in the back. Hasn’t it been 
a long time since someone obsessed about you? Call 
today and you may never walk the streets alone 
again.
Carryout
I" large
OneTopghg
Si,99 +e-X
CMU's NEW Choice 
For Delivered Pizza
elbrrat«ttJOMt
682-7272 
682-PAPA 
4643 Baum Blvd.
near North Craig
Check Out These Campus Values!!
One Large One Topping
Only$5.”*»
Two Large One Topping
Only$10.99
+Tax
“TWICE AS NICE”
Two 10” Pizza’s 
Two Toppings
Only
FREE Breadsticks
& Large 2 Topping
Only$7.9Irax
“PARTY PACK”
4 LARGE 
One Topping
Only $19.
$5.00 each!!
95
+Tax
Pathways director gives bias lecture
By JENNIFER BARKEN
Tartan Staffwriter
On November 10 atBenedum 
Hall in the University of Pitts­
burgh, Paula Rayman gave the 
speech, “Competition Versus 
Community: Building Equity 
in the Sciences, Math and En­
gineering.” Rayman is an asso­
ciate professor of sociology and 
also the director of the Path­
ways for Women in Science 
Project at Wellesley College.
Pathways examines female 
tendency and talent in the sci­
ences from their undergradu­
ate years to 
their first
background, Rayman has stud­
ied gender concentration in the 
labor force. Preceding her discus­
sion of the university, the profes­
sor looked statistically at the auto, 
aircraft, and steel industries. At 
most schools she finds that 
women are outnumbered in the 
engineering, physics, and com­
puter science departments, al­
though not all cases are as severe 
as here at CMU.
Rayman raised questions con­
cerning the three to one mass 
male majority at Carnegie 
Mellon. She is concerned about a 
fall semester headcount of un­
students here, Rayman ob­
served common complaints of 
a lacking mentor system. Since 
the women minority feels at a 
disadvantage in the sciences, 
it is essential that they- de­
velop good relations with a pro­
fessor or other faculty mem­
ber.
Rayman described the “glass 
ceiling” effect, in which women 
are only promoted to a certain 
level and then encounter stale­
mate. Even in the biological 
sciences, where women are not 
hard to find, they generally 
don’t exceed middle manage- 
-------------- ment. At the
“We are currently facing widespread 
gender inequity in the science and 
engineering fields. ”
— Paula Rayman, 
Pathways director, Wellesley College
years. The 
study ad- 
dresses 
“why wo­
men choose 
to enter sci- 
entificfields, 
and what ¦¦¦¦¦ 
promotes or impedes their suc­
cess.” The Center for Research 
on Women examines factors 
which might hinder or help 
success such as the occupations 
of parents, the presence of a 
mentoring program in school, 
discrimination in the schools, 
and other “cognitive prefer­
ences.”
Many may not be aware of 
gender inequity at colleges and 
universities, including Car­
negie Mellon. Traveling around 
the nation, meeting with deans, 
faculty, and students from dif­
ferent schools has made 
Rayman a very knowledgeable 
source. Having an economics
dergraduate enrollment which 
shows that there are 255 men in 
computer science compared to a 
paltry 20 women. “Given that 
CMU is widely known for their 
engineering department, women 
have a long history of being 
underrepresented,” says Ray­
man. “There is no legitimate rea­
son that women shy away from 
the sciences, since it has been 
proven through college GPA’s 
that there is no difference in brain 
power between the sexes. When 
the university system began, 
women were blatantly excluded, 
while women were, in fact, some 
of the first scientists.”
In meeting with the graduate
University of 
Pittsburgh and 
at Carnegie 
Mellon Univer­
sity, most of the 
higher admin­
istration is 
composed of 
men. Rayman 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ says, “We are 
currently facing widespread 
gender inequity in the science 
and engineering fields. We 
need to find ways to institute 
change so that all students can 
fully realize their talents and 
abilities.”
Rayman next travels to MIT 
to continue her speaking tour. 
She says she doesn’t expect to 
find a drastically different situ­
ation there. But having two 
daughters sparks her motiva­
tion to visit the student bodies 
and administrations of schools 
across the country and help 
women establish their talents 
in the sciences.
16” Cheese Pizza
$3.49
Full Menu Delivery
llam-l :30am All hospitals, doctors* offices & dorms.,
. $10 min. + $2 scrvkv diarj>c 
Original Hot Dog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave.
621-0435
When You're Considering a
Career in Information 
Technology
Consider One More Thing.
Consider the investment banking firm where 
technology is central to the growth and success of 
nearly every facet of its global business. Where 
information technology specialists are responsible 
for developing, planning, building and maintaining 
state-of-the-art computer systems linking offices 
and markets worldwide. Where high professional 
standards are reflected in principled everyday 
practices. Where the talent of each individual is an 
integral part of the team effort. And consider the 
firm where those individuals who choose to accept 
the challenges set before them are given the 
opportunity to excel both professionally and 
personally.
In short, consider the
Information Technology Department 
At Goldman Sachs.
Goldman Sachs 
New Associate Program 
Summer Intern Program 
Information Session
Thursday, November 18, 1993 
Skibo Hall - Room 13 
7:00 PM to 9:00 PM
Students majoring in telecommunications, computer sciencc,
MIS, math or engineering or those with a strong interest in technology, 
supported by prior work and classroom experience, are welcome. Some 
knowledge of COBOL and/or "C" language is required.
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, docs not discriminate in 
employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local law.
(''ultimanE9rAb
it

---------------------------------------------------

:mk sm
Apple, Dec, Sun CMU Software i 
clvS'J Special Pr Raster Ops, cT, File Runner, GalAbco/C
Radius

---------------------------------------------------

.
mCOrtlö
By PeKtei T.CrosswordBy Jeffe Boates
UH Uit X, K ii-L.ee. 
OWWr i-MRUS HOW' 
o' 60MTRO1- M 
Khc^tal !
“CHAPTER 3, 
COiJTW>Lt|iJ^ 
V«UR ELEMWAl.: 
N^rTB 'I'MIS sPelu, 
Y0V 6Afi EASluy 
PIRECT yovR 
£LE«EMT>L TO
BO of(1 Bidd«^!'
For AT THAT LCTI ONOCS,f
fcfluA St)bY CO^SULTifJ%
¡tirr riEp. Oom,NEpp
ItfOCED WOCHÜCK,
fov ARE ArflW%r«6 e£5T 
OP UK f«f>L5. THSRc 
it> 6ur we fuML i*^r 
/*l WHIC-« /OU mi/st P801/E
/«UR SKILL...
hat’s a Wendell?
jrry! If iJe ton j^St find Our 
iiccsWipj uit ca.n escape 
gore-fkey notice were not" 
^ ^in tire jou! /
cl
by Matt Goldberg
Om... Did ^nys see.
1 vjke.ee- I pi/f rlie. l<eyS ? ,
StripsRelishedNot transcendental . Infant . Monkees song . Ball 
Water (French)That which crushes Poisonous snake Submarine spying apparati Ten-faced figure Plural of is Volleyball call 
Argue wordlessly AttemptSentimental fool Tiny insect Reused path Springs to attack Makes acquaintance
DOWN1 . Shoot game animal2. Avenue (abbr.)3. Steal4. Mess up5. Caspian, e.g.6. Clever7. Blow off (slang)8. Bjorn Ulvaeus1musical group9. Inexpensive10. Fighting sticks11. Prepare a weapon 13. Simplicity16. Delivery company18. Mineral spring19. Short snicker
20. Before21. Eliminates24. ___ Lanka
25. Gadus Morhua26. Single27. Rather or Aiello28. Lust
29. Coniferous tree32. Author of "TheMetamorphoses" ’33. Out of34. Golfball stand38. Spunk39. Egos
41. Male cat42. Regret43. Chemical suffix44. Portray45. French preposition-
HE FAR SIDEBy Gary LarsonLast Week’s Answers
TSR|
ALA
NAD
SP1N
Douglas is ejected from the spoon band."Oh, man! The coffee’s cold I 
They thought of everything'."
C0t>elKAG
AGUTEBe
seAT\0Mi
TAE1
0D0R
ENN0N
s is it, son — my old chompin’ grounds.... 
Gosh, the memories."
“Ooo! You’re right, Sir Dwayne! If I knock right here,
I can make him start buzzing.... Ooo, and he’s angry\
Backing out of the driveway, Mr. Peabody suddenly 
brought his car to a stop. He had already heard a 
peculiar “thump," and now these flattened but 
familiar-looking glasses further intrigued him.
“Well, thank God we all made it out in time.... 
‘Course, now we’re equally screwed."

---------------------------------------------------

tl v S ' J Lui'
BNrvyCXl dRiIonBf us
K ? *
^r* ¿>v \ -oSHra*
SHISH-KABOB7 GvYGEARh5O
veffenbr
J *
5 GGahdGaRRYuSs5
WHJN1NG-
LESSER KNOWN HOCKEY PENMTIES
UP£«JDWi 
3-? MMT
by Jash LtJi
\r‘

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

$ MONEY $
WHAT'S THE ISSUE?
Upcoming budget hearings for Spring 
Carnival and Sweepstakes....
DATE: November 16, 1993
PLACE: Wherrett Room
TIME: 7 P.M.
Student Senate will be having budget 
hearings concerning Spring Carnival and 
Sweepstakes.
The proposed budgets are as follows:
Spring Carnival: $86,303.00
Sweepstakes: $25,100.00
It's YOUR money! Come and decide how it * 
is spent. Voice your opinion at the next 
Student S enate meeting!!
Funded by your Student Activities Fee"
NEW COURSE
66-210 : Science and Technology for the Environment 
Spring 1994
Objective:
We begin with the premise that it is essential to understand a few 
scientific principles and the basic premise and practice of technology 
for two important objectives:
(i) to understand how the environment works, and how science and 
technology affect it;
. (ii) to ensure that science and technology work for (and not against) the 
natural environment.
The aim of this course is to explore the use of science and technology 
in the context of the earth's natural environment. Specifically, students 
will learn the basic principles of science and technology that can enable 
them to understand environmental phenomena, and the effects of human 
activity on these. These principles will be learnt through their use in the 
context of environmental issues. Students will also examine the values, 
assumptions and actions that have guided our actions towards the 
environment, and the resulting impacts.
Most of the classes will demand active participation of the students in 
the form of discussions, group projects and some field observations.
Pre-requisites : Interest, Caring, Involvement.
Instructors : Garrick Louis, Indira Nair, EPP
NOTE : This course may be taken as a free elective, or as the 
introductory course required in the H&SS minor in 
Environmental Studies.
CALL FOR TOPICS
Career Week '94
BBIMifaiMllWigwaaEras&Hte
The Career Center 
is in the process 
of evaluating 
program topics for 
Career Week '94 
and we would like 
your suggestions. 
All topics will be 
considered.
(They must be 
career-related.)
CAREER WEEK '94 PROGRAM REQUEST FORM
I would like to see programs in the following topic areas:
The following is optional: 
YOUR NAME__________
CAMPUS ADDRESS- 
PHONE NUMBER___
PLEASE RETURN THIS FORM TO THE CAREER CENTER, 
WARNER HALL 19, BY FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 19,1993 
OR E-MAIL YOUR IDEAS TO JOHN MICHALENKO (lm7m@andrew.cmu.edu)
i(AS

---------------------------------------------------

What's in a name?
DIVERSIONS
fiddler overcomes bad acoustics
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Business Manager
On Friday night, November 12, the 
Carnegie Mellon Department of Music 
presented the musical Fiddler on the 
Roof. Fiddler is a powerful story about a 
, Jewish family livingin the Russian town 
of Anatevka. The town is comprised of 
mostly Jewish families, all of whom are 
guided in their lives by tradition. As the 
main character, Tevye, played by Chris­
topher Laret, says at the beginning of 
the play, “We have a tradition for every­
thing.”
Tevye’s family symbolizes everything 
that is happening in Anatevka and Rus­
sia at the time. All of their lives, says 
Tevye, “are like a fiddler on a roof.”
Fiddler takes us through the slow 
breakdown of Jewish family tradition, 
the pulling apart of their town, 
Anatevka, and the breaking apart of 
Russia . The daughters of Tevye get 
married without the marriage being 
arranged by Tevye, the authorities in 
Anatevka are being forced to rid the 
town of the Jews, and Russia is being 
threatened by revolution, and the Tsar 
is cracking down on everybody.
It is obvious that the players in this 
musical were chosen for their vocal abil­
ity. All of the cast charged the room at 
Bellefield Hall with their singing talent. 
The voices, combined with such beauti­
ful songs as “Tradition,” “Matchmaker,” 
“If I were a Rich Man,” “The Sabbath 
Prayer,” “Miracle ofMiracles,” and other
Fiddler classics, were the highlight of 
the night. The orchestra, directed and 
conducted by Robert Page, provided 
beautiful accompaniment.
The show opened with the whole cast 
singing “Tradition. ” And the audience is 
set to travel through the stories of these 
people and this time period.
The stage set was very simple; rustic 
wood was used for both the outdoors and 
the inside of Tevye’s house and the local 
tavern.
According to the program, the set was 
designed by Media Production Services, 
an outside firm that also provided the 
audio and video recording of the produc­
tion. The set was perfect for the small 
hall that the show was done in.'
The story and music were performed 
very professionally by the cast and crew, 
but there were some problems. The or­
chestra was seated right in front of the 
audience and proved to be distracting at 
times. However, there was no other place 
to put the orchestra in Bellefield Hall. 
This brings me to the biggest problem in 
the production — Bellefield Hall itself.
Obviously, Bellefield Hall wasn’t de­
signed to house a musical production. 
The acoustics were horrible. The voices 
of the actors managed to overcome the 
shortcomings of the hall, but had they 
been in a quality hall, this production 
would have blown the audience away. In 
the dream sequence, Fruma Sarah, the 
butcher’s dead wife, played by Kristen 
Carbone, sings a whole song about how 
Tevye’s daughter shouldn't marry the
butcher. I didn’t hear her voice at all. It 
was completely lost in the awful acous­
tics of the building. Having the perfor­
mance in Bellefield Hall made me won­
der why CMU doesn’t have adequate 
performance space for the music de­
partment. I have seen Drama Depart­
ment productions and they always 
seemed to have much better performing 
space than this. It somehow doesn’t seem 
fair to me.
However, there were some wonderful 
performances in this musical. Laret pro­
vided a singing voice to match Tevye’s 
strong and humourous character. Golde, 
Tevye’s wife, played by Deborah 
Bletstein, had a beautiful singing voice, 
and also manged to portray best the 
accent of an Eastern European Jew. 
Motel, the tailor that marries Tevye’s 
eldest daughter, Tzeitel, was played by 
Brian Deutsch.
He gave the audience the most hu­
morous performance and displayed a 
strong voice that impressed me quite a 
bit. The whole cast did a good job, but 
these three were the standouts. It was 
amazing that they were able to perform 
in such poor conditions.
Despite the problems, I recommend 
that people go see this production of 
Fiddler. This show left me with a good 
feeling and made me very happy that I 
went to the show.
I would also encourage CMU to look 
into getting adequate performing space 
for all of the performing arts depart­
ments.
Exhibit full
By JENNIFER URSO
Tartan Photo Editor
Imagine aroom, but not any normal- 
type room. Imagine an orange room 
with orange people having an orange 
cocktail party. Then, imagine that all 
of thes-? orange things are made of 
cheese doodles. Well, OK, you don’t 
have to imagine, because it’s not some 
strange vision of my own personal cre­
ation. It’s actually an installation by 
Sandy Skoglund that opened Wednes­
day night at the Manchester Crafts­
men’s Guild on the North Side. There 
were cheese doodles on the wall, the 
floor, the furniture, and the people. It 
was a cheesedoodlearama. There were 
even cheese doodle pins and a bowl of 
cheese doodles sitting in the installed 
room.
If you’re not familiar with Skoglund’s 
work over the past 10 years, it consists 
mainly ofinstallations of a room trans­
formed into a mono- or duochromatic 
space. The work that led her into this 
was an installation called “Radioac­
tive Cats.” The room was painted all 
one color with about 20 or more green 
cats all sculpted separately. For 
Skoglund, however, the piece isn’t just 
the sculpture and installation but also 
the photograph of it. She uses long 
exposures, so everything in the pic-
¦ ture is in focus, and unlike the actual 
installation, uses human models whose 
skin is the only color variant.
of cheese
doing installations. She got her Mas­
ters degree in painting, and after 
graduation, went along with the 
minimalist movement of the late ’60s 
and early ’70s, creating works of rep­
etition. Since these works were mostly 
conceptual in trying to create the feel­
ing of repetition, they took her farther 
away from being involved in the cre­
ation of the work and she started to do 
some performance work. Skoglund’s 
theory was that thoughts and imagi­
nation were the determining factor in 
art, so the actual medium didn’t make 
much of a difference. Then, her con­
cept of art completely changed and she 
started working with ultra-real type 
work where if it was a still life, that’s 
all it was. Her theory was to “put the 
object in front of you and make it look 
like it.” In the same idea as realism, 
Skoglund began to mock the supposed 
“real” look of commercial images of 
food.
As she extended the perfected-look 
of symmetrical and well-placed food, 
Skoglund expanded in the space she 
was using and began to do installa­
tions. At first, the installations were 
only the basis for carefully structured 
photographs. However, the idea soon 
expanded to be both an installation 
and a photograph — the focus of 
Skoglund’s installations today.
This exhibit will be open until De­
cember 3 at the Manchester Crafts­
men’s Guild, 1815 Metropolitan Street.
Lewd sex brings laughs in Lysistrata
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Staffwriter
Scotch ‘n’ Soda sold out all three per­
formances of Lysistrata this weekend. 
Rumors about this blatantly sexual play 
flew around campus and attracted 
crowds to each showing. Others at­
tended the play to survey the perfor­
mances, because none of the perform­
ers were acting majors.
Before the play even started, I griped 
and grumbled and moaned with the 
rest of the crowd as we all filed into the 
Wherrett Room to sit on the floor. Al­
though we were over-stuffed in this 
room, we all sat patiently, listening to 
some musical selections by Madonna, 
En Vogue, Sweet Honey in the Rock, 
and Aretha Franklin. We stared at the 
fiery red set before us. Being mildly 
; claustrophobic, I was convinced that I 
was actually sitting in hell. So, with 
this cynical mindset, I proceeded to 
watch the play.
Aristophanes wrote Lysistrata, and 
it was first performed in 411 BC. This 
play has lasted centuries because of its 
ageless humor about women witholding 
“all rights of access or entrance” from 
men to stop them from warring. That’s 
right, the character Lysistrata, well 
acted by Leigh Silverman, convinces 
all Athenian women to agree to “total 
; abstinence from sex.”
As stereotypes go, women should be 
able to abstain from sex for an eternity. 
Well, not the women of Athens. One by 
one, they try to sneak out to “spread 
their wool” and “pluck their flax.” As
Lysistrata states eloquently, “In briefest 
compass, we want to get laid.” Yes, it is 
true — the women were all going wildly 
insane for sex.
Then enter the men. Not just any men, 
but men deprived of sex to such an extent 
that they all have huge erections that 
will not go away. In one scene brilliantly 
acted by Megan Dietz as Myrrhine and 
Adam Donshik as her husband, Kinesias, 
Myrrhine plays with and tantalizes 
Kinesias and his erect affliction. Main­
taining her oath of purity, she leaves him 
frustrated. He complains, “Oh, what a 
love feast; only the table gets laid.”
The women entice the men more and 
more, so their erections become perma­
nent props on stage. And I do mean 
erections — fake, but realistic phallises 
that were exposed to the audience en 
masse. I was personally shocked by this 
inappropriate display, but director 
Heather Scarlett Araet felt it necessary 
to accurately depict the nudity requested 
in the script. She also wanted to make 
the obscenely huge penises “real to the 
audience for a second.”
The next nude distraction' appeared 
shortly thereafter as Tracy Pemeta posed 
as Peace. A lot of people focused on her 
nipple rings and tuned out Lysistrata’s 
speech. But here the nudity seemed an 
interesting juxtaposition between the 
physical beauty and intelligence inher­
ent in all women. Unfortunately, the 
erect men lusted after her, making this 
parallel less obvious.
At this point, the story began to wind 
down as both men and women bargained 
for peace. The story ended in a drunken
orgy of sorts, finalized by a grand toast, 
“To women!”
In all, the strengths of the play were 
embedded in the script’s one-liner eu­
phemisms and crudities about sex. The 
acting was inconsistent at times, but 
basically good and overall highly ener­
getic.
The actors seemed to have fun and 
were obviously enjoyingthemselves. Two 
of the supporting roles, Koryphaios of 
Women, by Katherine Wickiser, and 
Koryphaios of Men, by Matt Morrow, 
stole many scenes as they contrasted 
and confronted each other throughout 
the show.
The sets and the costumes did not 
seem as refined as possible, but the gen­
eral idea of contrast between the fiery 
sets and the feminine white costumes 
presented itself boldly.
As a whole, the anachronistic incon­
sistencies between costume, language, 
and sets threw me for a loop, and I was 
generally confused as to why none of the 
characters ever masturbated.
As Arnet said, however, “The 
audience’s reaction speaks for itself.” 
This is true. Most of the audience mem­
bers could not stop laughing. Lysistrata 
was received eagerly by the majority of 
audience members. “I think it went re­
ally well,” said Arnet after the final per­
formance.
Judging by the reactions of the people 
around me and the excited performers, I 
would have to agree. There was no magic 
on stage, but an energy and fun ema­
nated from the actors to the audience. 
That’s what Scotch ‘n’ Soda is all about.
My Sister’s Machine performs
By JASON ANDRACKI
Tartan Staffwriter
On Saturday November 13, My Sister’s 
Machine (MSM), I Mother Earth, and 
Triage performed an all-ages show at 
Metropol in the Strip District. For a 
Metropol show, I was a little surprised 
at the small crowd turn out. Every other 
concert I’ve been to there was either a 
sell-out or pretty near to one. For this 
show, however, there were only about 
100 people there. I think this concert 
should have taken place at a smaller 
venue like Graffiti. I guess the close, 
relaxed atmosphere was nice, especially 
with the drummer and guitarist from I 
Mother Earth walking around and talk­
ing to fans just as the doors opened at 
6:30 pm.
I went to this concert just for the 
headlining group, My Sister’s Machine,
but I went with a pretty open mind as far 
as the opening groups. I had no clue 
about Triage. I at least knew I Mother 
Earth has a record out. One thing I can 
say for Triage is they were punctual. 
The starting time on the tickets said 7 
pm and they were on stage at that time 
which is probably a first for any concert 
I’ve been to. Aside from being punctual, 
my only other compliment I can sin­
cerely give them is that they were quick
— only a 20 minute set. Actually, therfe’s 
one more thing, the guitarist had a nice 
t-shirt on. Triage played four thrash 
songs that were surprisingly well re­
ceived by the crowd, which made me 
happy. I always feel guilty for an un­
known opening group when nobody claps 
for them. They weren’t really bad. The 
lead singer actually sang, not growled. 
It’s just that they were really mediocre.
Please see CONCERT, page LIO
The new graduate student art gallery’s lack of a name 
didn’t stop its opening this past week. Located in GSIA’s 
new wing, the new gallery, currently called “The Yet to Be 
Named Gallery,” was opened to provide exhibition space 
for graduate students at CMU. Shown here is some of the 
artwork exhibited last week in the gallery.
Jim Snyder/Tartan Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993
Columnist celebrates birthday of Sandman's writer
This column is dedicated to my 
favorite writer in comics today, 
Neil Gaiman, who just celebrated 
his birthday on November 10. I 
will also review Gaiman’s latest 
work The Children’s Crusade #1, 
which came out several weeks 
ago.
As usual, I was treated to 
.Gaiman’s spell-binding storytell- 
, jug when I read The Children’s 
Crusade #1, the starting point for 
the crossover of annuals bearing 
_ D.C’s Vertigo imprint. Vertigo 
could not have chosen a better 
writer to launch this crossover, 
even though Gaiman’s trademark 
character Sandman isn’t involved 
f (although the child Death from 
. “Brief Lives” does appear in the 
f bdrder of page 44). Perhaps the 
b£st part about this book is that 
we get 58 pages of Gaiman’s work 
, rather than the usual 32.1 didn’t 
even think twice about buying it 
at the $3.95 cover price. Although 
the writing is excellent, you 
should not overlook the artwork 
, of Chris Bachalo. Bachalo is the 
perfect compliment to this 
Gaiman tale. He puts so much 
detail into his work that I tend to 
just stare at a page to absorb all
Sandman arcs. The storyline was 
a great intro to the Sandman 
series.
My second favorite work of 
Gaiman’s is not even a comic book, 
but the novel, Good Omens: The 
Nice and Accurate Prophecies of 
Agnes Nutter-Witch, which he co- 
the subtleties of each panel. I wrote with Terry Prachett. I have 
especially like his rendition of never laughed so hard in my life.
Comic Book Chronicles
By Jason Andracki.
the view-master on page 43. The 
entire layout of this book is great. 
The chapters and the borders that 
go along with them tempt me to 
call this book a manuscript rather 
than a comic book. The most awe­
inspiring details of this book are 
captured in chapter three,’’the 
Innocents”, chapter five, “The 
Piper and the Gate,” and chapter 
seven, “The Hole.” These Gaiman 
fairy tales belong right up there 
beside those of The Brothers 
Grimm. To sum up, The Child­
ren’s Crusade #1 is in one word: 
beautiful.
I still remember the day when 
I picked up Sandman #21 which 
is part 0 of “Season’s of Mists.” 
This was the first Sandman comic 
and also the first book written by 
Gaiman that I read. This is by far 
my favorite story arc of all the
If you thought the end of the 
world was funny in Hitchhikers 
Guide to the Galaxy, then it’ll 
seem like a text book after you 
read about the Apocalypse in 
Good Omens. Once again, 
Gaiman’s handling of religious 
mythology is the reason why I 
like this book so much. Also, it is 
so realistic for a fantasy novel. 
The fact that a demon is tortured 
by hearing music by the group 
Queen everytime he puts a tape 
in his car stereo is enough to 
make me go to confession every 
day. Despite all their puns, 
Gaiman and Pratchett still man­
age to end this book with an im­
portant message. The son of Sa­
tan saves the world from its de­
mise, showing that no one is in­
herently evil (or good for that 
matter).
The story arc of “The Doll’s 
House” encompassing Sandman 
numbers 9 to 16 is my third favor­
ite work of Gaiman’s. Thanks to 
glowing reviews in Rolling Stone 
of the trade paperback reprint­
ing, this story brought Sandman 
to the forefront of the “mature 
reader” genre of comics. This en­
tire story is great. Every panel 
held my interest due to its inter­
woven subplots. One issue con­
cludes with the Sandman ending 
the threat of serial killers, or “col­
lectors” as they prefer to be called, 
by returning a nightmare named 
the Corinthian to the dream 
world. Sometimes I wish these 
stories were true.
Although I’ve talked a lot about 
Gaiman’s writing of Sandman, t 
I also enjoy his other works. I 
have never read a comic book 
that captures as much emotion 
as the Death miniseries of last 
year. After reading Piers 
Anthony’s novel, On A Pale Horse, 
in which a man named Zane acci­
dentally kills the Grim Reaper 
and is forced to take over the job, 
I have taken a liking to personifi­
cations of Death. Gaiman is the 
only one who has created a char­
acter comparable to Anthony’s 
Zane. During the Great Writers 
series for Image, Gaiman also 
wrote one of the best issues of 
Spawn, #9. Gaiman’s story alone 
opened up a number of possibili­
ties that will keep Todd 
MacFarlane busy for a longtime. 
In addition to this, there are a 
number of books by 
Gaiman that I haven’t 
been able to find, and I’m 
positive that they are just 
as great as the books I 
have already mentioned.
At the top of the list is The 
Books of Magic. A friend of 
mine bought one issue of 
it and told me a little bit 
about it, and since then 
(about two years ago), I’ve 
been searching for it so we 
both can enjoy the com­
plete story. I’d also like to 
find the original limited 
series of Black Orchid, 
because Black Orchid 
seems like an interesting 
character, and I’m sure 
Gaiman did a fine job with 
her.
What I like most about 
Neil Gaiman’s writing is
his ability to tike something 
mundane and make it supernatu. 
ral. He took the childhood figure 
of the Sandman and turned him 
into the most thought provoking 
character in comics today. jn 
Sandman #54, Gaiman also % 
ates an excellent symbolic stdfy 
Please see COMICS, page
MSM concert somewhat disappoints
CONCERT, from page L10
If I heard one of the songs they played 
right now, I wouldn’t recognize it. They 
were boring at best but not the worst 
group I ever saw.
; After Triage’s short set, I Mother Earth 
took the stage. I know slightly more 
about them. I saw their tape Dig in a 
: record store, and I contemplated buying 
it since I was going to see them, but a 
track called “Basketball” kept me from 
that purchase. Also, I was able to read 
about this group in some newspaper 
that was passed out by the bouncer at 
the door. They are a five piece band 
consisting of a vocalist, bassist, guitar­
ist, and two drummers.
What was unique about this group 
w^s that one drummer had the normal 
heavy metal type drum kit, but the other 
drummer had an African style drum 
setup. Also, during one song, he shook 
something that resembled one of those 
rain sticks that you find in Natural 
Wonders and at the art festival. At the 
: beginning of their set, the lead singer 
‘¡was doing a pretty decent imitation of 
: Eddie Vedder. These guys are original 
land not overly concerned about their 
I lack of an ‘image.’ Maybe you could call 
I it a Joe Cocker imitation, or if you don’t 
imind me being obscure, Kory Clarke 
¡from Warriorsoul.
; Well, what I’m trying to say is that he 
[ seemed glued to the front of his micro- 
| phone, but as they played more songs, 
his intensity grew, and he actually took 
the mic off the stand and really got into 
'the music. The intensity of the other 
•members were also pretty high as the 
guitarist and bassist leaped back and 
•forth in the air.
Their music is pretty hard to describe. 
The free magazine called it “a combina­
tion of grunge, thrash, drug music, aiyl
retro pop.” I’m not sure about this, but I 
know I liked it. The rhythm section is 
what made me like this group, espe­
cially the driving African beats. At one 
point as the lead singer joined in there 
were three different drum beats at one 
time. Another reason I liked I Mother 
Earth is because they seemed like nice 
guys, since they thanked My Sister’s 
Machine for having them on tour since 
this was their last night on tour with 
them.
Finally, the group I was waiting for 
took the stage. My Sister’s Machine 
(MSM) opened up rather calmly with 
the first track from their debut Diva, 
“Hands and Feet.” Although it’s a good 
song, I think they could have chosen a 
better opener. One thing I respect about 
this group is their lack of showiness in 
their performance and dress. They looked 
like everyday people, and immediately 
following their introduction, they began 
to play without the traditional “Hey (in­
sert city) how the (insert expletive) are 
you?” Throughout the show, they then 
talked about how much they loved play­
ing in this town and what a great place 
it is even though it looks the same as 
every other place they’ve played, and 
they’re leaving right after the show. No­
frills is an apt description of MSM. They 
picked up the pace with their second 
song, from their most recent release 
Wallflower, “16 Ways to Go.” From “16 
Ways to Go,” they flowed into what I 
think should have been the opener, “In­
side of Me.” Following this, MSM per­
formed the song I was waiting for, “En­
emy.” This was my biggest letdown, be­
cause my favorite part of the song is the 
lyrics, specifically, the first verse. For 
some bizarre reason, they simply sang 
the second verse twice. Next, they per­
formed “Diva” and alas, the concert was
not ruined. I Mother Earth started to 
thank MSM again, but instead, they 
decided to strip vocalist/guitarist Nick 
Pollack during the guitar solo. Thank­
fully, they only got to his shirt’, shoes, 
and socks.
After the revelry, they got back to 
business with a more angry and aggres­
sive version of “I Hate You” which, due 
to the disappointment of “Enemy,” was 
my favorite of the songs they performed. 
They performed four other songs (“I’m 
Sorry,” “Wasting Time,” “Mockingbird,” 
and “This is Fear”) and then an electri­
fying “Feed.” This song ended at about 
9:40, so I knew there was another 20 
minutes to go.
I was wrong, because after this song 
they said their thank you’s and left. I 
thought this was just the traditional 
ploy groups use to take a break. The 
crowd (all 100 of us) were still cheering, 
but MSM still did not return.
Finally, they brought up the house 
lights and then Metropol proceeded to 
politely kick out audience members un­
der 21.1 have to say, I was quite disap­
pointed with MSM for barely playing 
longer than one of their supporting 
groups.
,<One thing I do have to say for Metropol 
is that I got my $11 worth, if not in music 
— in free stuff. In addition to the maga­
zine, I got a cassette single, a small 
poster of I Mother Earth and MSM, a 
couple of MSM stickers, postcards, and 
a full size My Sister’s Machine poster 
that I would have paid at least $8 for:
The tape and postcards were handed 
out, but the posters were, well, removed 
from the wall.
What I was 
cheated out of in 
music was made up 
for in merchandise.
1993 DC Comifcs
This Week at 
Forbes Gallery...
Student exhibitions this 
past week at Forbes Gallery 
included (left) a 
performance art piece by 
senior art majors Matt 
Zolan and Damien Miller, 
and (bottom) “shadow,” by 
junior art major Christeri 
Napier.
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Bg!MN•(&gg).a&mg)a& rc scApRiaiG
o
2
O
cTrust etsaupsovodoml is imn
c
• z R 
h- 
c u 
D 
Q
c
D
O
2
>
OQ_
Tkach For America, The National Teacher 
Corps, recruits dynamic individuals from all 
academic majors and diverse cultural 
backgrounds to teach in under-resourced 
urban and rural public schools for at least two 
years. Education course work is not required.
Corps members become full-time salaried 
teachers and become actively involved with the 
communities in which they work. Salaries range 
from $ 15,000 - $29,500 and partial cancellation 
(Perkins/NDSL) or deferment (Stafford/GSL) of 
loans is possible. Come hear how Oa) 
can make a difference!
For more information, contact your career service office or call:
TEACH FOR AMERICA
Information Session 
at '
Carnegie Mellon University 
Thursday, November 18 at 6 p.m. 
Room 1112 Doherty Hall
1-800-TFA-1230 extrn
<
o
z
n
>
n
z
o70>
z
n
zlliteracy ¦ Special EducationLFb&b—“
v

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 15 November 1993Lll
Thursday, November 18
Seven Samurai
This classic Japanese film is about a 16th 
century village that is defended by professional 
warriors who ward off the enemy. In this movie, 
director Akira Kurosawa set a trend in the indus­
try to make eastern-based cowboy and Indian 
movies. See The Magnificent Seven on video for a 
more spectacular and powerful American re­
make of the original 1954 version of Seven Samu­
rai.
At 6, 8:45, and 11:15 pm.
Friday, November 19
In the Line of Fire
Clint Eastwood plays a secret service man who 
has flashbacks about the time he was on duty 
when President Kennedy was assassinated. That 
was the first time Eastwood was in the line of fire, 
and because he hesitated to stop the second 
bullet, the President was shot. Throughout the 
entire movie, he harbors over the fact that he 
could have saved the President, but he didn’t. 
Right after the Kennedy assassination, Eastwood 
is instantaneously pulled from Presidential duty 
and is demoted to a pencil pushing job. Now, in 
the present, Eastwood receives threatening let­
ters and phone calls from a psychotic man who 
says that he’s going to kill the President. The 
assassin knows all about Eastwood’s life and how 
he screwed up during Kennedy’s assassination. 
The assassin is a highly intelligent man who 
knows everything about the Kennedy assassina­
tion and has personally documented the event 
with saved clippings, quotes, and pictures. 
Eastwood is reinstated to Presidential duty, and 
the hunt begins to find this man before he kills 
the President, culminating in an intense finale at 
a political rally in Las Vegas.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, November 20
The Firm
Based on the best selling novel by John 
Grisham, The Firm is an intriguing story about 
Mitch, a bright young man soon to graduate at 
the top of his law class at Harvard. Mitch, played 
by Tom Cruise, has job offers from the best and 
biggest law firms in the nation, yet he finds 
particular appeal in a small, low profile Memphis 
firm that offers him a large salary, down pay­
ment for a home, and a new Mercedes convertible 
that he cannot refuse. Compared to the modest 
college lifestyle they’re used to, Mitch and his 
_ wife, played by Jeanne Tripplehorn who also 
starred in Basic Instinct, were dazzled by the 
firm’s tactics of wining and dining them into 
signing on with the firm. However, his wife could 
not help but find the extreme secrecy and privacy 
of the firm to be odd. The firm has an unusual 
track record of having no associates resign from 
the firm and an uncanny number of associates 
who have died mysterious and tragic deaths at 
improtu times in their careers. While Mitch se­
cretly investigates these deaths to settle his curi­
osity, he is approached by an FBI agent who 
raises multiple questions, doubts, and suspicions 
in his mind. As his investigation continues, Mitch 
uncovers startling facts about the firm and soon 
finds himself caught in the middle of a chase 
between the FBI and the Mafia.
At 5, 7:45,10:30 pm, and 1:15 am.
Sunday, November 21
The Spider
The Spider is one of director Robert D. Webb’s 
earlier movies made in 1945. Other more famous 
film credits include Seven Cities of Gold (An­
thony Quinn and Rita Moreno) and Love Me Tender (Elvis Presley). Richard Conte, Faye 
Marlowe, Kurt Kreuger, John Harvey, Ann Sav­
age, Cara Williams, and Martin Kosleck all star 
in The Spider, a 20th Century Fox release that 
unfortunately does not let Conte perform his 
character at his violent best.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
ByTARAZANE
ClNEIVlA ScopE
The 39 Steps
Famous Alfred Hitchcock film 
about an innocent man who is drawn 
into a spy ring. (Pittsburgh Play­
house; 7:30 and 9:30 pm Thursday)
The Age of Innocence
New Martin Scorscese film based 
on Edith Wharton’s Pulitzer prize- 
winning novel about New York high 
society in the 1870s. Stars Michelle 
Pfeiffer, Daniel Day-Lewis, and 
Winona Ryder. (Squirrel Hill Cin­
ema World; 4:15, 7:10, 9:50 pm 
daily)
A Bronx Tale
Robert DeNiro directs and stars in 
this adaptation of the Chazz 
Palminteri play about a father, a son, 
and a gangster in a 1960s Italian 
neighborhood. (Manor Theater; 
7:35, and 9:40 pm daily)
Carlito’s Way
AI Pacino stars as Carlito Brigante, 
a man who is haunted by his past 
crimes in this film adaptation of two 
Edwin Torres novels. Sean Penn and 
Penelope Ann Miller also star. 
(Manor Theater; 5, 7:30, 10 pm 
daily)
Farewell My Concubine
This 1992 film from Hong Kong 
director Chen Kaige was winner of 
Best Film at this year’s Cannes Film 
Festival. The story explore the con­
stancy of the Peking Opera during 
the tumultuous 50 year history from 
1925 to 1977. (Filmmakers at the 
Fulton; Friday through Sunday)
Fatal Instinct
Carl Reiner (The Jerk, Oh, God!) 
directs this film spoof of movies like 
Basic Instinct, Fatal Attraction, Body 
Heat, and Double Indemnity. Stars 
Armand Assante, Sherilyn Fenn, 
Kate Nelligan, and Sean Young, and 
features apearances byTony Randall, 
Bob Uecker, and Doc Severinson. 
(Manor Theater; 5:30, 7:45, 9:35 
pm daily)
Fearless
Peter Weir directs this film about 
how several people’s lives are af­
fected after surviving an airline crash 
that killed most of their fellow pas­
sengers. Jeff Bridges stars as a man 
who has gained a feeling of invinci­
bility after his survival. Rosie Perez 
and Isabella Rosellini also star. 
(Squirrell Hill Cinema World; 4:30, 
7:15, 9:40 pm daily)
Flesh and Bone
Story of two loners who find each 
other by strange coincidence in a
© 1993 Universal City Studios Inc. All rights reserved. 
AI Pacino, Penelope Ann Miller, and Sean Penn star in Carlito's Way, 
now playing at The Manor Theater.
Fatal Instinct offers 
silly slapstick humor
smalltown. (ManorTheater;5, 7:20, 
9:40 pm daily)
Giant
This George Stevens film won an 
Academy Award for Best Direction 
in 1956. This film is a film adapta­
tion of Edna Ferber’s novel about 
two generations of Texans. Stars 
Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, 
James Dean, and Dennis Hopper. 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30pm Sun­
day)
Home of Our Own
Kathy Bates and Edward Furlong 
star in this film about an LA family 
that packs up and moves to a small 
Idaho town. (Manor Theater; 5:20 
pm daily)
The Killer
The best-known film from Hong 
Kong kung-fu film master John Woo 
tells the story of a hit man who 
wants out of the crime world, but he 
can only get out if he agrees to one 
last job. (Beehive; Midnight Friday 
and Saturday)
Manhattan Murder Mystery
New Woody Allen film about an 
aging couple who try to fire up their 
marriage by solving a murder mys­
tery. (Beehive; 5:45 and 9:45 pm 
daily. Pittsburgh Playhouse; 7:30 
and 9:30 pm Saturday)
The Nightmare Before Christmas
An ambitious full-length stop- 
motion animation feature film, The 
Nightmare Before Christmas follows 
the adventures of Jack Skellington, 
Pumpkin King of Halloweentown. 
Jack accidentally finds Christmas- 
town and returns home obsessed 
with the idea of bringing Christmas 
under his control. (Squirrell Hill Cin­
ema Wrold; 5:30, 7, 8:30, 10 pm 
daily)
Prospero's Books
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
If you’re like me, then you’ve 
undoubtedly seen Airplane, Na­
ked Gun, Hot Shots, and other 
spoof films in recent years. Carl 
Reiner directs Fatal Instinct, a 
no-holds-barred send up of thrill­
ers such as Basic Instinct, Fatal 
Attraction, and Body Heat. 
Reiner’s other film credits include 
The Jerk, All of Me, and Oh, 
God!.
Armand Assante, who starred 
in The Mambo Kings and 1492, 
also stars in Fatal Instinct as 
Nick Ravine, a cop/lawyer who 
busts, then bails out the badguys. 
Kate Nelligan, who starred in 
Prince of Tides, plays Nick’s wife, 
Lana, who schemes to murder 
Nick with her auto mechanic 
lover. Meanwhile, Nick’s devoted 
secretary, played by Sherilyn 
Fenn of Twin Peaks fame, hides 
her dark past while trying to show 
her love for Nick. Sean Young, 
who starred in Blade Runner and 
No Way Out, is the sultry seduc­
tress, Lola, who is intent on ei-‘ 
ther having Ned, or killing him 
— whichever one comes first.
Strands...Hand-crafted jewelry of semi-precious stones 
Wednesday 
November 17, 199l 
Skibo Hall Make more than a fashion statement.
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300
directs this loose film adaptation.of 
Shakespeare’s The Tempest. John 
Gielgud plays the part :of 
Prospero. (Pittsburgh Playhouse; 
7:30 pm Monday)
Queen Christina •:>
Greta Garbo stars in this 1933 filrn 
abouta 17th century Swedish queen 
who relinquishes her throne to liVe 
the life she wants to live. (Pittsburgh 
Playhouse; 7:30 and 9:30 pm Tues­
day)
Sleepless In Seattle
Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan star in 
this film about a widower whose 
son goes on a national talk radio 
show campaign to find his dad a 
wife. (Beehive;7:45 pm daily. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse; 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
Friday)
The Three Musketeers-I
This film adaptation of Alexandre 
Dumas’ well known stories about 
Aramis, Athos, Porthos, and 
d’Artagnan stars Chris O’Donnell, 
Charlie Sheen, Keifer Sutherland,, 
and Oliver Platt. Also starsTim Curjy 
as the evil Cardinal Richelieu arid 
Rebecca DeMomay as Milady de 
Winter. (ManorTheater; 5:30, 7:40, 
10 pm daily)
Wings of Desire
.
Wim Wenders directs this film 
about two angels who watch ov.6r 
Berlin, one of whom wants to be 
human. (PittsburghPlayhouse; 7:30 
pm Wednesday) *•
J.
Theater locations:
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave. ,f 
Filmmakers at the Fulton: ,J
101 Sixth St., Downtown 
The Manor Theater: ,c
1729 Murray Ave.
Pittsburgh Playhouse: /-
222 Craft Ave. S
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave. &
British director Peter Greenaway By TINA L. URSO
Meanwhile, a criminal who Nick 
sends to prison has been paroled 
and is intent on seeking revenge.
Reiner keeps the jokes coming, 
but you have to be clever to catch 
them. Fatal Instinct is not the 
same type of film as Hot Shots: 
Part Deux. It includes more sat­
ire than parody.
Having the mind-set of another 
Naked Gun movie will only lead 
to disappointment. While some 
scenes are obvious take-offs from 
other films, Reiner chooses to go 
mainly with symbolism and 
subtlety.
If you have not seen Basic In­
stinct, Fatal Attraction, Cape 
Fear, and Chinatown, then this 
movie may not be for you. It’s 
likely that you won’t catch most 
of the jokes, but there still is a 
good chance of enjoying yourself.
I went with a few friends who 
hadn’t seen three out of the four 
of those movies. They summed 
up the movie as being “silly.” Well, 
this is a silly movie. But it’s a 
movie that you’d want to laugh at 
just because it’s so silly. Keep 
reminding yourself that it’s only 
a movie, and you’re bound to en­
joy it more.
Sandman author 
celebrates birthday
COMICS, from page L10
for the 1990s from the 1970s 
DC character of Prez.
The surrealist character of 
the smiley faced Boss Smiley 
is especially close to my heart, 
because one of my earliest 
memories as a 
child was a neon 
sign smiley face 
that for some rea­
son always gave 
me shivers down 
my spine.
Now, I know 
what hides be­
hind the smiley 
face. I highly, 
highly, recom­
mend this book to 
anyone who’s a 
little tired of the 
common super­
hero comics. Pick 
up an issue of 
Sandman or any 
book written by 
Gaiman.
JasonAndracki 
is a freshman pro­
fessional writing 
major. He wel­
comes any input into his col' * 
umn.
If you have any comments for: 
Jason, send them to Comic Book 
Chronicles,c /o Diversions, The ' 
Tartan, Skibo room 50, or drop I 
them off in person at our office
© 1993 DC Comics
Immigration
Services
VENTRESCA, VENTRESCA & WALKER 
also provides LANDLORD/TENANT services 
(special discounted $50.00 student rate 
for lease review), immigration and 
discrimination/civil rights litigation 
services to students and faculty.
CONTACT:
Lisa Ventresca
Phone: (412) 261 • 5366
ug—&Fg(iaD pg—&Fg(ia ? ”a!dgFThe Westin William Penn Hotel 530 William Penn Place • Suite 357 • Box 88 
Pittsburgh • Pennsylvania • 15219

---------------------------------------------------

/XUNI V ERÉi Vjt\
Bili IpliiìDÀiv
Films
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
8 H2, the Academy Award winning 
film by Fellini, will be shown Wednes­
day at 7 pm in PH 100. Sponsored by 
the Department of Modern Languages, 
this film is free and open to the public.
Seven Samuri will be shown in DH 
2210 on Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and 
midnight.
In the Line of Fire plays in DH 2210 
this Friday at 6, 8:45, and 11:15 pm.
The Firm shows in DH 2210 Saturday 
at 6, 8:10,10:20 pm, and 12:30 am.
The Spider will play Sunday in DH 
2210 at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Come repair, revise, and revitalize 
your foreign language skills at the 
International Language Tables held 
daily over lunch. Sponsored by the 
Modern Languages Department, all 
language tables are held in the Gradu­
ate Student Coffeehouse, with the ex­
ception of the Russian language table, 
held in the Faculty Dining Room. Times 
are as follows: Mondays: La Table 
Française from noon-1:30 pm; Tues­
days: Russkii Chas from 12:30—1:30 
pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa Española 
from 11:30 am-12:30 pm; Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch from 11:30 am- 
12:30 pm; and Fridays: Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de from 12:30-1:20 pm.
CMU Shorin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Mondays at 8:30 pm and Saturdays at 
4 pm in Activity room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Beginners are welcome.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5-7 pm 
when classes are in session, in addition 
to regular office hours.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group holds workshop meetings every 
Monday at 7 pm at the Friends Meeting 
House. For more information, call Bill 
King at 276-1768.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
¿holds its meetings Tuesdays at 6 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
Join other set dancers for a night 
of Irish social dancing every Tues­
day at 8 pm at Mullane/s Harp and 
Fiddle, located in the Strip District at 
24th and Penn Ave. For information, 
contact Pete Mullaney at 392-8319.
Pittsburgh Women’s Rugby Club
meets Tuesdays and Thursdays at 6 
pm and Sundays at 1 pm on Flagstaff. 
For more information call 734-4980.
The Fencing Club holds practices in 
the Fencing Room in the Gymnasium 
Tuesday evenings at 6:30 pm, Thurs­
days at 7:30 pm and Sunday afternoons 
at 1:30 pm. All are welcome.
The Kenpo Karate Club meets on 
Mondays and Wednesdays at 9 pm in 
Activity room A and Sundays at 2 pm in 
Activity room B. For more information 
email cd2b or call x8-2151.
The Self Knowledge Symposium, a
non-denominational student study 
group, provides a weekly forum for stu­
dents inquiring into the meaning and 
purpose of life. Regular meetings are 
held Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, room 236. For more infor­
mation, call 343-1907.
Lambda Sigma, the sophomore honor 
society, is sponsoring a food drive to 
benefit the Greater Pittsburgh Com­
munity Food Bank. Food and cash do­
nations will be collected in front of 
Doherty Hall Tuesday through Friday. 
Contact Steph Stine at x2-3158 with 
questions.
© 1992 Imrat Khan
Imrat Khan performs on the sltar in this Friday's Hindustani Classical 
Concert sponsored by SPIC-MACAY.
Student Senate meetings are held 
every Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 
7 pm. All members of the campus com­
munity are welcome to attend and speak 
during audience participation.
The Women’s Center Collective
holds meetings every Thursday at 5:30 
pm in the CMU Women’s Center. If 
your group is interested in meeting in 
the center, call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Every first 
and third Wednesday the Toastmas­
ters Club sponsors a speech communi­
cation workshop at the Carnegie Li­
brary in Oakland from 7-8:30 pm. For 
more information, call 422-5361.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is
held on Wednesdays at 7:30 pm in the 
Israel room (337) at the Cathedral of 
Learning. Free of charge. Call Rabbi 
Samuel Weinstein at683-7770 for more 
information.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts­
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ­
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x8-2114.
Women in Science meets Wednes­
days at 4:30 pm in the Women’s Center. 
For more informaton, call the Women’s 
Center at x8-3595.
The Pterodactyl Speedway student 
reading series holds readings in Scot­
land Yard every Thursday evening at 7 
pm. Come out and support the local 
student writing community. Students 
interested in reading should contact 
Micki Kochanskyj (mk57), Tina Urso 
(tu05), or Chris Ogilvie (coOg).
A Rational Recovery support group 
for those with alcohol or drug problems 
meets every Friday at 7:30 pm. Meet­
ings are free and held in Room 205 of 
the Wightman Community Center 
Building in Squirrel Hill. For informa­
tion on this and other RR meetings in 
the Pittsburgh area, phone 261-5363.
The Dagorhir group of Live-Action 
Medieval Fantasy Battle meets ev­
ery Friday and Saturday at midnight 
in front of Hunt Library. Anyone inter­
ested is encouraged to drop by. Train­
ing and weapons will be provided for 
interested parties.
Student Environmental Action 
Coalition meets every Sunday at 4:30 
pm in Grey Matter. SE AC’s job is to 
motivate students in working towards 
protecting our environment. For more 
information, call Josh Knauer at x2- 
4949.
The Oakland Review is looking for 
submissions of poetry, fiction, critical 
essays, and art. Deadline for submis­
sions is December 3. Drop submissions 
off at the Skibo Information desk for 
the Oakland Review.
SafeWalk—If you need to walk across 
campus late at night, let a trained stu­
dent escort team accompany you. Call 
the SafeWalk dispatcher between 10 
pm and 2 am seven nights a week at x8- 
SAFE (x8-7233). For more information, 
contact Ray Tseng at x2-3736 
(rtle@andrew).
The Volunteer Babysitting Net­
work is looking for student parents in 
financial need of free childcare and 
students, staff, and faculty interested 
in babysitting. For more information, 
call or write David Pegher at x2-4840, 
Box 1107, or email dp31.
George Walker’s award-winning 
play Love and Anger runs through 
Sunday at the Upstairs Theatre, lo­
cated at 4809 Penn Ave in Bloomfield. 
Performances begin at 8 pm Thursday 
through Saturday and 7 pm on Sunday. 
Call 361-5443 for reservations and other 
information.
The audience participation mur­
der mystery Murder Me, Murder Me, 
My Darling, My Darling will be pre­
sented Friday at the Sherwood Forest 
Theatre. Dinner precedes the show at 
6:30 pm, and the show begins at 8 pm. 
For reservations, directions, and other 
information, call 733-8222.
Comedian Frank Pace brings his 
outrageous style to the Skibo Ballroom 
this Friday at 8 pm. Sponsored by AB 
Coffeehouse. This event is free and open 
to the public.
Pianist Mykola Suk will perform in 
conjunction with the Colorado Quartet 
tonight at the Carnegie Music Hall at 8 
pm.
Join in an International Pop Festi­
val when German band Nightblooms, 
Danish band Throw That Beat in the 
Garbagecan, and U.S. bands Small 
Factory and Wimp Factor 14 come to­
gether for a one night performance this 
Wednesday at 8 pm at the Graduate 
Student Coffeehouse. Tickets for this 
all-ages show are $5.
Russian cellist Mikhail Istomin will 
give a recital concert for the Y Music 
Society on Wednesday at 8 pm at the 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland.
Art rockers No Safety, Super- 
conducter, and Tibetian Bowlers
will perform Friday at the Graduate 
Student Coffeehouse at 8 pm. Tickets 
are $7.
This Friday, attend a Hindustani 
classical concert performed by Imrat 
Khan on the sitar and accompanied by 
Shafaatullah Khan. Sponsored by 
SPIC-MACAY, this performance will 
be held in the Mellon Institute Audito­
rium at 7:30 pm. Admission is free.
Ecumenical Holy Communion
sponsored by the Episcopal, Lutheran 
and United Campus Ministries, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz 
Chapel.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible 
study at 7 pm on Thursdays. For mor<j 
information, call x2-2484.
Daressalam Islamic Center, located 
at 4100 Bigelow Blvd., offers weekly 
congregational prayers at noon on Fri- 
days. For information, call 682-5555.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporaiy, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the comer of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, 
sponsored by the Lutheran Campus 
Ministry, is held Sundays at 9:30 pm in 
the Heinz Chapel. This Sunday’s guest 
organist is C. John Thickey of the Calvin 
Presbyterian Church in Ellwood.
Smithfield United Church, located 
downtown, holds Sunday morning wor­
ship services at 10:45 am. A free stu­
dent fellowship luncheon follows each
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am, college class at 9:45 am. Shadyside 
College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Call Dan Moss at 682-4300 for 
more information.
Lectures
Rational Egoism in Ayn Rand's The 
Fountainhead is the title of Thurs­
day’s lecture sponsored by the Students 
of Objectivism. This dynamic lecture is 
free to all CMU students and begins at 
7:30 pm in BH 2315.
Gabriel Silva, Colombian Ambas­
sador to the U.S., will speak Friday at 
12:30 pm in a lecture entitled Drugs 
and Beyond: U.S. - Colombian Rela­
tions in the 1990s. The lecture will be be 
held in Hamburg Hall Auditorium.
Sports
For Everything There Is A Season is
the name of Style and Substance Art 
Gallery’s newest crafts exhibition, on 
display through December. For gallery 
hours, call 834-9299.
The revolving Pittsburgh exhibit 
Arts on Thirty will be displayed 
through February at the Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts. For more informa­
tion, call 361-0873.
Representation, Computers, and 
Architecture, a multi-media installa­
tion, is now on exhibit at the Hewlett 
Gallery. For gallery hours and other 
information, call X8-3618.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates Mass daily at 12:30 pm in 
Skibo 39, Monday through Friday. 
WeekendMasses are celebrated atl0:30 
am and 8 pm every Sunday in the GSIA 
Cooper Auditorium. Call 681-3181 for 
more information.
St. Agnès Church, 3221 Fifth Ave
(Oakland) offers the Traditional Latin 
Mass (Tridçntine Mass) Sundays at 
8:30 am (Low) and 11 am (High), first 
Fridays of the month at 7:30 pm, and 
first Saturdays at 9 am. Confession and 
the Holy Rosaiy are offered 30 minutes 
prior to all Masses, approved by His 
Eminence Bishop Donald Wuerl. Call 
766-0950 for more information.
The women’s basketball team plays 
at Muskingum College this Saturday 
at 2 pm.
The men’s basketball team competes 
this weekend in the Western Pennsyl­
vania Classic, which will be held at 
Washington and Jefferson University 
on Friday and Allegheny College on 
Saturday.
The CMU hockey club plays Penn 
State West at the Kirk S. Nevin Arena 
in Greensburg, Saturday at 9:15 pm-
The CMU hockey club plays Allegh­
eny College this Sunday at 9 pm at the 
Golden Mile Rink in Monroeville.
Oleanna, directed by Marc 
Masterson, will be performed 
through Sunday at the City Theatre in 
Southside. Performances begin at 8 pm 
Tuesday through Friday, 6 and 9 pm on 
Saturday, and 2 pm on Sunday. For 
ticket prices, directions, and other in­
formation, call the box office at 431- 
4900.
Alexis,
I’m planning on breaking up with my 
boyfriend. Would you like hiB num­
ber?
Arjun,
I want your tender loving chooth. 
Call me.
— teri rani, “the recycler”
In the stations themselves, livestock 
should be kept to a minimum at all 
times.
BAD designer!
No hot breakfast!
Hey Theta Xi Man,
Who are you? Are you Indian?
No, not you Sujan.
Don’t worry, we are not players, 
We’re just kidding.
— the two who follow you.
Alexa —
Haven’t you gone after enough broth­
ers in this house?
