THE TARTAN
/
m s*
i*
s
VOL. I No. 1PITTSBURG, PA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 24, 1906PRICE FIVE CENTS
California Normal vs. Carnegie Tech. The Football Outlook
Tire first game of the season was 
played at' California on October 6th 
with the S. W. Normal School. The 
game was played under the worst 
possible condiitionls, the mud being 
anklp; deep on the gridiron.
Tech's team is to be congratulated 
pn the brilliant showing made on a 
field so opposite in condition from 
the one on which they had been prac­
ticing, with a driving rain to add to 
the general discomfort.
The ball was kicked off at 3:05 p. 
m. by Adams and received by Burns, 
the California , end, on California’s 
35-yard line. Burns ran the ball back
10 yards and was downed by Hen­
derson. By a cleverly arranged se­
ries of quarterback kicks the ball 
was brought down the field until, af­
ter but three minutes of play, Califor­
nia kicked across Tech’s goal line 
and a Normal player fell on it. The
The football outlook for the season 
is exceedingly promising. About 40 
candidates have reported to Coach 
Frey, who is fast whipping them into 
shape.
The majority of the men come with 
records from other schools, and, to 
use the words of Coach Frey, “It is a 
likely looking bunch.” All the po­
sitions are being hotly contested, 
and no one can foretell at this date 
just what the final lineup will be.
Amongst the men who have re­
ported are: Adams, an old Mercers-
burg player, who comes with an en­
viable reputation as a fullback, and 
who should have little trouble in 
maintaining that place; Dowling, 
long on the Pittsburg High School 
team; Urling, of Kiski; Shaub, of 
Bordentown Military Academy; Hen­
derson, of Spring Garden Institute; 
Kann, Grafton and Halferty, of East
Schedule.
Saturday, October 20—Kiskimine- 
tas at Pittsburg.
Saturday, October 27 — Shadyside 
Academy at Pittsburg,
Friday, November 2- -East Liberty 
Academy at Pittsburg.
Saturday, November 17—Allegheny 
College at Meadville.
Saturday, November 24—Wash,
and Jeff, at Washington.
Thanksgiving Day — Grove City 
College at Grove City.
remainder of the half was all Tech, 
the only run of note being a gain of 7 
yards around end by California.
The second half opened, California 
kicking to Tech; Coursin received it 
and adanced 10 yards before being 
downed. By a constant series of line 
plays the ball was carried dbwn the 
field for 25 yards, when Tech lost on 
downs. From now on the ball ex­
changed hands regularly, with no 
particular advantage to either side, 
until late in the half Urling got 
a\^ay for 35 yards. Game closed on 
California’s 30-yard line.
Liebrty Academy; Decker, of Youngs­
town High School: Ramp, of Parkers­
burg High School; Wright, of Ohio 
Northern University; Beeken, of 
Worcester Academy; Foster, of Wil- 
liston Seminary; Rheinhardt, Slo­
cum, Hatch, Harter, Schmucker and 
Silvernail.
% is hoped that with the team fast 
gating into shape and with the ex- 
cclient schedule the mangement has 
prepared the student body will give 
their earnest support and start the 
athletic year with a winning team.
INTER-CLASS CONTESTS.
On the afternoon of September 21, 
following the defeat of the Plebes in 
the morning, in which the Junior» 
proved their ability as a class, came 
the struggle between individual 
members of the two classes.
This took the form of wrestlig 
matches and a tug-of-war, and all 
who witnessed the events were high­
ly pleased with the fine class of 
rivalry between the first and second 
year men.
The following men were chosen by 
their respective classmates as repre­
sentatives in the wrestling matches: 
Juniors. Plebes.
Foster .. ..Heavyweight.. .. Felkel 
Hezlep. ...Middleweight ...Dowling 
Bates .. Lightweight .. Hatcher 
Foster won over Felkel by gaining 
two falls. Hezlep also won his first 
two falls, but Referee Keller was 
kept busy trying to make a decision. 
Bates won over Hatcher by taking 
the first and third falls. The first 
contest was a bit one-sided, but the 
second and third were very evenly 
matched, being won only after sev­
eral minutes’ fast and hard work. 
Huntley and Schunicker also had a 
match on the side, and just before 
the fall it looked as though neither 
man could win. By a suddenly exe­
cuted trick Huntley threw his oppo­
nent over his head and won the fall. 
Sehmucker was too badly shaken to 
try for a second round.
The tug-of-war was next on the 
program, with 50 men on a side. 
After getting into position the signal 
was given, and the rope suddenly 
grew taut, when, without a mo­
ment’s warning, it broke, and every­
one had a good laugh at the con­
testants’ expense. The rope was soon 
repaired, and this time, with 25 men

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
Hotel Schenley . .
Estimates 
given 
for 
Club 
and 
School
Dinners
R. W. MEDICK
Oakland 
Meat Market
Choice Home Dressed 
Meats and Poultry
Both Phones 3804 Forbes St.
McQuown & Hall
Beliefield Tonsorial Parlor
Basement Charles Pharmacy 
Corner Craig and Forbes Streets
142 Park—BOTH PHONES—142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss
Hardware and House 
Furnishing Goods..
Mixed Paint, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Fnrnaces, Tin Roofing and Job Work promptly done 
Improved Midget Gas Furnaces
3809 Fifth Ave.
The Class Rush
On the memorable morning of Sep­
tember 21 the Plebes were surprised 
as they came up tho school walk to 
see the flag of the 1908 class floating 
proudly and defiantly to the breeze 
from the cross-arm of an electric 
light pole. It took no second thought 
for the spirit of the new class to 
manifest itself, for in less time than 
it takes for the telling a crowd of 
Plebes rushed on the defending 
Juniors congregated at the base of 
the pole. After a series of fierce 
rushes, a Plebe was lifted over the 
heads of the Juiors on to the pole, 
but the momentary advantage was 
short lived, for the Juniors had made 
provision for such an emergency by 
posting ‘“Extemporaneous Sivits,” of 
the Crucibles, half way up the pole, 
who successfully used his feet in 
such a manner as to discourage any 
further upward progress. Undaunted 
by this temporary setback, they made 
repeated efforts to reach the desired 
goal, only to be repulsed by the 
sturdy upper classmen.
It was but a short time until many 
torn shirts and trousers became con­
spicuous as well as black eyes and 
bleeding noses, but in the eagerness 
and excitement these minor mishaps 
were of little moment. Many encour­
aging cries of “’08” and “’09” were 
heard shouted back and forth across 
the field of conflict. After a final 
migbhty effort, in which the Juniors 
barely held their own, the Plebes 
withdrew to the Assembly Room, 
leaving behind them the sounds of 
rah! wall! rah! ’08!!!
J* 3 &
JUNIOR ELECTIONS.
On September 21st the Juniors 
gathered in the Record room for 
their first general class meeting of 
the year. After a discussion relative 
to the designation of the incoming 
class, which was finally settled upon 
as “Plebes,” the work of electing 
their class officers for the year was 
begun. Frederic E. Foster, of Bos­
ton, was re-elected president; H. 
Markle Steen, Pittsburg, vice presi­
dent; Fred Hunt, Homestead, secre­
tary; John Provost, Pittsburg, treas­
urer; Walter Rheinhard, Pittsburg, 
class historian. After a few infor­
mal speeches by the newly elected 
officers, the meeting adjourned with 
a class yell for 1908.
Why does work momentarily cease 
in the chemical laboratory about- 3 
p. m.?
McCLOY ELECTRIC COMPANY
ELECTRIC WIRING AND REPAIRING 
3908 Fifth Ave
Bell Phone 20 Schenley OAKLAND
Phone 292 J Schenley
H. M. JONES
MEN’S 
TAILORING
121 Oakland Avenue
PLEBE ELETCIONS.
The Plebes early got together and 
formed their class organiaztion',. 
They thought it advisable to elect 
only temporary ofFcers at first, and 
later on hold a meeting for election 
of their permanent class officers:
The following men were elected to 
hold office for tlire^ weeks: Hudson, 
president; Carter, vice president; 
Davis, secretary; S. J. Kann, treas­
urer. At the present writing it is 
hard to foresee who will be the per­
manent officers, as many strong men 
are being proposed right along. The 
Plebes are there with the class and 
school spirit all right, that fact hav­
ing been demonstrated upon more 
than one occasion.
& ¿X
Inter-Class Contest—Continued
on a side, the signal was once more 
given. After a few agonizing mo­
ments, during which neither side 
seemed to gain, the Plebes slowly 
gave way, and the Juniors were vic­
tors of the day. The rope was qick- 
ly cut up into souvenirs, many of the 
fellows gallantly giving their me­
mentos to the fair Coeds, who had 
been interested onlookers during the 
events of the day.
Though the Plebes were losers, it 
was not because of lack of prowess, 
but' because of the fact that they 
were unorganized and unacquainted 
wit heach other, while the Juniors 
had such knowledge as enabled them 
to pick their best men and were 
fully organized.
Ita,

---------------------------------------------------

THE OAKLAND SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY 
“OAKLAND’S STRONG BANK”
WITH A CAPITAL OF $200,000.00 AND A SURPLUS OF $126,000.00 
SOLICITS YOUR BANK ACCOUNT
THE TARTAN
ATWOOD PHARMACY
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. and Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P. & A. 166 Park
Liberty Cleaning 
and Pressing Co.
301 Craig St.
GEO. H. HERSHEY
GRO*CER
FORT PENN COFFEE
5503 Center Ave. East End 
Bell 232 Highland P. & A. 1011 X
MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS.
The glee club is again to be under 
last year’s most capable directorship, 
that of Mr. Dorrington. Robert Par­
sons will act this year as manager. 
We understand there are nearly 60 
men out trying for the organiaztion 
already, with the night school not 
yet started. Judging from the splen­
did work done by the glee club last 
year, the C. T. S. will be justly proud
of this branch of the student body. 
A fine lot of material is being given 
Mr. Dorrington from which to choose 
and it is expected that shortly be­
fore the Xmas recess the first con­
cert will be held in the Carnegie 
Music Hall.
The mandolin club has a good 
prospect' of at least 15 or 16 men, 
though they have not as yet come 
together for practice. Taxis, night, 
was last year’s leader, and it is ex­
pected he will fill the same position 
this coming season.
The school orchestra is not quite 
as strong in numbers as it should be, 
but from a tip handed out to one of 
our reporters it looks as though we 
could feel quite certain of having 
some good music from them this 
year, under the directorship of Mr. 
Wagner.
S' &
Tech. vs. Kiski
, " 7"~
Tech’s sturdy aggregation of foot­
ball men went down to defeat last 
Saturday at Kiski, in a hard-fought 
battle that looked like anybody’s 
game until the whistle blew for time; 
Although hard playing characterized 
the game, it was clean throughout, 
and the treatment received at the 
hands of thè Kiski men deserves fa- 
vorble mention. Urling, one of Tech’s 
most needed men, was badly hurt at 
the very beginning of the game, and 
it was only by the dogged grit of 
Beeken that he was able to remain 
in the game after a severe bruise on 
the knee. Several of the Kiski men 
received more or less severe injuries, 
but only one man was^ forced to re­
tire. j
The game in detail showed the ab­
surdity of changing the men from 
•their positions on the eve of the con­
test; but’ regardless of this mixup, 
the boys put up an excellent game 
and were only defeated by the su­
perior kicking of Kumler, the Kiski 
fullback, u- if
At 3 o’clock Referee Frey called 
Captains Kumler and Foster to the 
center of the field for instructions. 
Foster won the toss, choosing to de­
fend the west goal with the sun to 
Tech’s back. Kumler kicked off to 
Tech’s five-yard line, Urling receiv­
ing the ball and rushing it back by 
clever dodging to his own twenty- 
yard line. Beeken, Ramp and Urling
Bell Phone Schenley 1554
CHARLES C. OCH
3714 Forbes St.
Oakland
Furnishings for
Men, Women and Children
Best in Oakland
Tobacco, Cigars, Pipes, 
Stationery, Periodicals
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
J. B. ZASLAFF
3707 Fifth Ave., Oakland
HARRY DeHAAN
Wholesale and Retail
LIQUORS
3703 Fifth Ave
netted 19 yards for Tech and then 
Kiski held, forcing Tech to kick. 
Kiski caught the ball on the Tech 45- 
yard line an,d the runner was downed 
almost in his tracks by Dowling. By 
a series of line plunges and a clev­
erly executed forward pass, 18 yards 
were gained, and at this time Tech’s 
line took a brace and held for down. 
Tech rushed the ball by short, con­
sistent gains for 30 yards and were 
then forced to kick. Kiski ran the 
ball in for 10 yards; Tech held; Kiski 
kicked to Tech’s 10-yard line, and 
(Continued on page 5)

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Official Organ Carnegie Technical School
Editor ----- Frederic E. Foster 
Business Mgr. - - James M. Sampson
Subscription Rates
Yearly......................................$1.C0
Single Copy - 5 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the Business 
Manager, care Carneg.e Technical School
Director Hamerschlag’s Address
You have journeyed here from 
manv States and cities for a purpose 
which, if carried to fruition, will in­
sure your love and interest in this 
institution of which you and I are 
new a part.
This day adds to the circle of my 
friends and companions the students 
who are to form the class of 1909.
The older I grow in years, the more
I am impressed with the common in­
terest and mutual affection which is 
engendered and developed by in­
creasing one’s friends, especially if 
they be young at heart.
This Institution has its ideals and 
i+s ideas. The first is formed from
the second, since it is not of suffi­
cient age to have inherited tradition­
al oneh. You who have so eagerly 
sought admission to its doors have 
been compelled to give evidence of 
your preparation and faith in your­
selves, and we who stand here have 
been compelled to guard and exact 
these tests, so that the Institution 
which is implanted here by its foun­
der may reach those best fitted and 
qualified to profit most from what' we 
have to offer.
This relationship does not end at 
the entrance. It must continue 
throughout the years of your school 
life if in the highest sense we are to 
preserve the Carnegie Technical 
School for its highest destiny.
All the forces that modern indus­
try and science have given our pres­
ent civilization, have been concen­
trated and used in the construction 
of these buildings and the equipment 
of these classrooms, laboratories and 
workshops, and to these have been 
added that which is much more 
priceless and important, a teaching 
staff, whose intellectual equipment 
and personality are such as to en­
sure to you instruction and friend­
ship which can only redound to your 
development and education along 
those lines for which you show apti­
tude and application.
The highest function and ideal 
which the ideas and personnel of this 
faculty will produce is “Man.” The 
next lowest is “Man;” the lowest' is 
“Man.”
All our ideals are men, because we 
rrcognize the need and the nobility 
cf the man.
Men, however, are composed cf 
many types, just as no two of the 
students seated in ths hall are pro­
totypes; no two possess equal brains, 
cr are equal in intellectual power or 
preparation. You all approximate a 
standard, and because ncne of you 
are below the minimum standard, 
you have been chosen as a class to 
begin your careers here; to the end 
that in the process of cultivation, 
which we propose t'o administer, most 
of you may be developed into strong, 
virile, productive men.
Strength and virility are not
wholly attributes of birth, whether 
having reference to brain or body,
since they can be cultivated and
trained if the material is good for 
the process. One of the methods we 
have adopted to train these faculties 
is termed “self-control,” and there­
fore from this hour the control of 
this student body has been vested in 
yourselves. Let your manhood and
your manliness give allegience and 
attention to your representatives, 
and discipline will require no ->th3r 
incentive than honor, to make the 
system effective.
Just one more view of the men we 
hope to produce! Productive men. 
Wbat a wonderful phrase it is, mean­
ing so much and so clearly that no 
one of us can misunderstand. The 
productive man must be trained and 
developed, just as the productive 
field must be cultivated and sowed, 
and warmed by the sun, and cooled 
by the dew, and watered by the 
rains, and finally reaped in good sea­
son, so that the period of fruiting be 
not extended to the period of decay.
So the youth who enters here must, 
by his own effort, study the laws of 
cause and effect, practice concentra­
tion and creatively think for himself, 
so that his mind may work out for 
itself those reasoning processes 
which are necessary in the 
long days when school days are past 
and your brain must match another 
and still others in the race of life.
It is to teach you how to attain to 
this end that this School was found­
ed, and my advice to you, if you wish 
to reach the end of your School days 
stamped as “Productive Men,” is; 
Work hard; be accurate; concen­
trate your energy; be clean; play 
fairly, and smile while fighting hard­
est. These are the milestones that 
mark your progress to gaining self- 
control, character and ability. If you 
get all of these, get them for use as 
soon as possible, and while as young 
as you can, so that the period of 
your cultivation does not carry you 
into decay before life’s race is run.
Editor’s Comment
It' is fitting and proper at this tim°, 
when we send forth the first issue 
of the Tartan, that the students be 
informed of our purpose and the 
things we, the editors, stand for, as 
in any venture of this kind the suc­
cess or failure depends upon the at- •' 
titude and spirit in which it is re­
ceived by those whom it reaches. 
The editors do not stand in the po­
sition of suppliants; they take the 
stand, rather, of those who are ready 
to deliver the goods. It is *he in­
tention of the editors to place before 
the student body not only those 
events which have happened but 
newsy items of events to come. We 
have the patronge of our faculty, 
and hope to draw upon them for an 
occasional essay, which we have no 
hesitation in saying will be interest­
ing to all the men. Outside talent 
will also be secured, and the Tartan 
will prove its right to the title of 
Official Organ of Carnegie Technical 
Schools.
SCHOOL SPIRIT.
The Tartan wishes to congratulate 
all Tech men upon the sudden out­
burst of enthusiasm and expression 
of school spirit shown during their 
preparation for the Kiski game. This 
same element of school spirit has 
been rather of an unknown quantity 
in the past, and with the number of 
fellows we have, and with the type 
and standard of the school, it' has 
been a deplorable condition. The 
spirit as shown by last wsek’s expe­
rience lies hidden asleep somewhere 
and only needs awakening to make 
itself known. Let us one and all 
strive to awaken this new and most 
valuable elementl in school life. Let 
it be the duty of every man"" to do 
some single, helpful work for every 
school organization. Every organi­
zation is sorely in need of your sup­
port—net financial alone—but that 
support that must be in evidence to 
make anything go. It takes very lit­
tle of a Tech man’s time to go up to 
football practice and cheer the fel­
lows, and make them feel that ihe 
student body is behind them, recog­
nizing their efforts.
Pass along the word that Tech has 
a Glee Club—that they are going to 
give a concert in December. Tell 
your friends that we have a mando­
lin club and that the hockey team is 
going to be one of Pittsburg’s fast­
est organizations next season.
Lend your support by being pres­
ent at the mass meetings, cheer and 
sing and do all those things that will

---------------------------------------------------

5
AFTER SCHOOL
Stop in at
HALLER’S
and get some
Ice Cream, Candy, Cakes
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Blk.
Give “her” a box of our chocolates
BELLEFIELD PHARMACY
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STS.
GEO. A. CHARLES, PROPRIETOR
SCHENLEY 6018 JPARK 303
make you love the old school not 
alone for what it has given you in 
the way of educational line, but also 
for the associations it has allowed 
you to form and the tra-ditions to 
live up to.
We wish to mention the expres­
sion of spirit shown by our co. eds. 
Their undivided support at the game 
on Saturday and the feeling of co­
operation that seems to exist is most 
inspiring. Keep it up, girls.
<¿8 J*
Tech. vs. Kiski, Cont.
Tech could not gain and were forced 
to kick. The punt was very bad and 
netted Tech only 5 yards, and amidst 
the cries of touchdown from the side 
lines, the wearers of the blue and 
white started for the goal line. They 
rushed the pigskin by hard line 
plunges up to Tech’s 1-yard line, and 
there they struck a stone wall, for 
the wearers of the Tartan were game 
to the core. Tech l-icked out', and 
the Kiski man was downed by Kann 
without gain. After trying the line 
without success, Kumler was sent 
around end, and by a brilliant run 
made Kiski’s only score. Kiski 6, 
Tech 0. ' U
The remainder of the first half 
was of little consequence, t'he ball 
remaining practically in the middle 
of the field.
The second half opened with Kiski 
kicking off to Tech. Tech rushed the 
ball for a series of good gains, anl 
then lost on downs on the’r own 45- 
yard line. Kiski made 7 yards anl 
was forced to kick. Henderson broke 
through, blocking the kick; Halferty 
caught the pigskin and was off like 
a shot for the v goal line. wright 
missed an easy goal. Score, Kiski 6, 
Tech ¿5. During the remainder of the
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughts­
men—Experts or Students
Should get acquainted with 
the resourses of supply for 
all drawing and Artists’ 
materials offered by this house
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
606 Wood St. at 6th Ave.
half a kicking game was played with 
the odds in favor of Kiski.
Kumler’s fine work for Kiski and 
Henderson, Halferty Becken and Ad­
ams’ playing for Tech were the fea­
tures. Lineup:
Larimer . . .. L. E............... Adams
Daub.................L. T.........................Cooper
Lytle.......................L. G...............Kirkwood
Carmack................C.........................Kann
McKenzie .. .. R. G:...................Grafton
McKane..................R. T.............Henderson
Andrews .. .. R. E..................Dowling
Jamison .. .. Q. B......................Shaub
Mosser.................R. H......................Urling
Campbell .. .. L. H....................Beeken
Kumler...............F. B .......................Ramp
Touchdowns—Kumler and Halferty. 
Goal from touchdown — Kumler. 
Missed goal — Wright. Referee — 
Frey of Carnegie Tech. Substitutions 
—Renhart for Adams, Adams for 
Ramp, Halferty for Renhart, Wright 
for Sliaub, Gell for Carmack, Smith 
for McKenzie, Tillinghast for Mosser.
Before the Kiski-Carnegie Tech 
game the Kiski second team played 
the Pennsylvania Railroad Engineer 
Corps of .Blairsville a 0 to 0 game.
Graham St. Meat and Provision Market
JOHN C. ZIEGLER
Fresh - and - Smoked - Meats
Poultry and Oysters in Season
Betl Telephone COQ Graham Çt Cor. 1482 Highland OMIIfllll 01. Claybourne

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
SCHEDULES
ELECTRICALS
9-10 1 10-111 11:30-12:30 |1:30-2:30| 2:35-3:30 | 3:30-4:30
Mon.Physics1 Eng. 1Math.| Elect. Lect. I Ind. Econ.
Tues.Chem. Lab.1 Math- 1Elect. Lect.| Laboratory
Wed.Mach. Design1 Elect. Lect. |Laboratory
ThursChem. Lect | Elect. Lect.1 Math. 1Eng.| Laboratory
Fri.Elect. Lect. I Electrical Laboratory |Laboratory
MECHANICALS
Mon.Math. I Eng.1 Ap. Mech. 1Ind. Econ| Mach. Shop
Tues.|1 • 1Mach. Design
Wed.Ap. Mech. | Math.1 Kinematics |Mech. Laboratory
ThursPhysics1 Ap. Mech. 1Mach. Design
Fri.M»t. of Const. | Lab. Lect.1 " 1Math.I Pattern Shop
CHEMICALS
Mon.Gen. Chem. Laboratory1 Math. 1Gen. Chem. Laboratory | Ind. Econ
Tues.Electricity1 Miner Lab. |Gen. Chem. LectGen. Chem. Lab.
Wed.Math. | Eng.1 Gen. Chem, Lect |Gen. Chem. Lab. | Miner. Lect.
ThursPhysics1 Miner Lab. |Quai. Anal. Lect. | Qual. Anal. Lab.
Fri.Mat. of Const. | Qual. Anal. Lab. 1Eng,1 Mineral Lab.
ARCHITECTS
Mon.Arch.1 Math. 1Draw 1 Arch.
Tues.Draw.1 Hist. 1Arch.
Wed.Math. 1Arch.
ThursDescrip. | Const.Descrip. |Arch.
Fri.!Ornament |Arch.
STRUCTURAL AND HYDRAULIC CIVILS
Mon.Physics1 At>. Mech. 1Ind. Econ.1 Struct. Design ~
Tues.Mat. Const | Math.1 1Hydraulic Design
Wed.Ap. Meih. | Eng.Math. 1Design
ThursMat. of Const. | Math.1 Ap. Mech. 1Land Surveying
Fir.11 - 1Eng.Land Surveying
RAILROADCIVILS
Mon. 1Physics1 Ap. Mech 1Ind. Econ.1 R. R. Eng.
Tues.Mat. of Const. | Math.1R. R. Eng.
Wed.Ap. Mech. | Eng.Math. 1R. R Eng.
ThursMat. of Const. | Math.Ap. Mech 1Land Survey
Fri.11Eng.Land Survey
W. H. 
KEECH 
CO.
It is always a little more sat­
isfying when buying any­
thing if it possess that some­
thing which stamps it “Just 
right.”
If you would rest “Just right” 
while reading or studying, 
during the long winter eve­
nings, try one of our
Easy Chairs
or
Comfort Rockers
“Just right” in design, in com­
fort and in durability
Prices as low as $2 and up by 
easy steps to $75
EASY TERMS OF CREDIT
923 to 931 
Penn Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women
n4V erunm THEA „ , probably be considered in the veryDAY SCHOOL. Additions to the Faculty near future.
Examinations for entrance to the The third regular class meeting
regular day. class were held on Sep- ---------- was held on October 8th, when it
tember 6th and 7th. The day school was decided to arrange for a Hallow-
commenced on September 17th with ^ay School. een dance to be held at the end of
66 students. The gills were wel- rp. , , , , the month.
corned to the school by Mr. Hamer- y f^?01 th's yeail has the Mlss Selheimer was appointed
schlag and Mr. McConawy, Chairman ™ aw ^ fa'cJL\tychairman of the committee on ar-
of the Committee on Technical pjphth S , ^ Ninety- rangement. Particulars as to other
Schools, both of whom set forth to a w / “^mbers of .the committee and de-
the girls the responsibilities as well uich t i h h ri asnmg' tails concerning the dance will ap-as the advantages of bein«- menbers g School and has had a great pear in a later issue.
of the flm «gi.Lr class to ZMar S«?“ W«*®« » teacher of --------------------
garet Carnegie School. ^iss • Harriette p Munson. U PR0GRESS OF ¿HE NEW BUILD-
On September 24th the first class South Goodman street> Rochester; N. ,NG-
was Tfld Mi4 Charlotte Schwartz Y‘ Miss' Munson is a graduate of This building has a frontage on was he L (. harlo te benwartz Mechanics Institute and has charge Woodlawn avenue of 150 feet by SO
was unanimously -elected president of the sewing depanment. feet in depth. It is supported by very
and the other elections wer as iol Migg Marion ^ Arrowsmith, 15 heavy steel columns with girder con-
lows: Vice president, Miss Grace Maple Teirace, Pittsburg, Pa. kiss struction. It is to be four stories
Armstrong; secretary, Miss Mar- Arrowsmith was gracluated from the high and built of yellow brick with 
garet Gibbs, tieasurer, Miss \eme p^ttsburg High School, 1900, and terra cotta trimmings. The general
RRN i A *RN Vassar College, 1904. She has had style of architecture is Italian Re-The following Friday marked the experience jn teaching both in the naissance. The interior arrangement 
event of the hrst of a series of eagt and in this vicinity. She has places the heating system, switch 
dances to be held during the school charge 0f the mathematics depart- board connected by pole line to main 
year. It was a ^very informal aftair, ment this school. poewr house, and other machierny in
and was most successful in mat it Tj16 cooking department is under the sub-basement. The floor above
gave the girls an opportunity to be- the management of Mr. Taylor M. the basement' is devoted mainly to a 
come better acquainted. Sharp, whose broad experience as complete laundry equipment, with
At the second class meeting on cjief; steward and demonstrator in mechanical washboards, electric man- 
October ¿>rd the principal business New York and the vicinity has pre- gles for ironing, extractors, drying
was the appointment of a committee pared him to handle most efficiently machines, etc.
whose duty it was to be to select the all branches of his subject. The first floor is on a level with
final committee for the drawing up Woodlawn avenue, and will be given
of the class constitution. Members |P. ** ** to main reception room, assembly
of this committee were as follows: room and laboratories, physical andChairman, Miss Martha Bovard; Night School Faculty. chemical.
K>pS JMkQHeAnn^’ ^Selheimer7 was The millinery department is in °n the second floor will be most of
i +• h T-pni’ps;pntattvp for charge of Mrs. James H. Johnston, t'he recitation rooms. The third floor
rc , , -vr. * i pjamlapk wifs whose broad experience in both com- be equipped with a complete
,e c ass anc A Mar caret mercial and retail millinery houses culinary department, for practicalchosen to represent the Marge enables her to handle most efficient- instruction and demonstration in 
^rr,1SOrl g School fo ly thB training of girls for actual cooking, including individual ranges,
a- an- trade positions, while her ability as cabinets and demonstration table.
S a trimmer and designer are causing On the fourth flocr will be a model
her afternoon class to be eagerly apartment house fully eouipped with
Night School. sought after by women who desire to every convenience for the home, to
. . . become proficient in the making and be maintained at a moderate cost.Interviews for admission to the trimming of their own hats Also a lunch room.
night classes of tbe school \\ere The instructor in sewing is Miss Practically the entire building is
held on the 25th and 26th of Sepiem- Hariette p Munson, who also has reinforced by concrete walls and
ber, and on the night of Monday, Oc- cha of the sewing which is part piers on the side of the hill, while 
toebr 8th the school opened its doors Qf ^ curriculum of the regular day the main entrance will be approached 
to 110 students, with five depart- gchool of applied science. through a spacious court, approx-
ments — millinery, sewing, cooking, night cooking class is taught imately 60x50 feet. This court can
bookkeeping and stenography. There , Mr gjjarp, day- class. be used, in favorable weather, for
are many more applicants for these Mr 'Clarenc’e E Barnet has charge receptions, etc.
night classes than can be accommo- the class in stenography, and Mr. The contract for this building, 
dated in the present limited quarters William A Wood, auditor of the costing approximately $250,000, calls
occupied by the woman’s school. Oliver Iron and Steel Co., is the in- for completion by Aprilb 1st, 1907.
«3 ^ *g structor in bookeeping. Both of these The quarters of the women's
K instructors have had long experience school, in the buildings at present
Say, Plebes, heard any Muskoka in all branches of their subjects. erected, are very much cramped and 
fish stories yet? As this paper goes to press there admit of an enrollment, to the day
The Juniors had a “Babe” in their has as yet been no meeting of the technical and night trade courses, of
class last year, but the Plebes have night school as a whole. Something only 100 students, with a teaching,
“Twins.” in the way of class organization will staff of twenty.

---------------------------------------------------

8
CLASS SOCIETIES.
The Crucible Club.
At a meeting held during the first 
week of school the chemical engi­
neering students organized what is 
to be known as the “Crucible Club/’ 
the object of which is to discuss 
matters pertaining to chemical re­
search and to promote the good-fel­
lowship of its memebrs.
The following officers were elected 
for the ensuing year: James Samp­
son, president, and Walter Pfeil, sec­
retary and treasurer. The first in­
formal gathering was held last week 
at the home of Mr. Rieger, which all 
the fellows enjoyed immensely.
The Electrical Society.
The “Electricals” held a meeting 
early last week for the purpose of 
organizing themselves into a club 
suitable for the needs of a student of 
electrical engineering.
The following officers were in­
stalled: Lucas, president; Parsons,
vice president; Colmery, secretary 
and treasurer. Axtell and James 
were appointed on the program com­
mittee, whose purpose is to assign 
the work which each man must do 
at the different meetings. It is un­
derstood that a meeting will be held 
in the near future.
The Civil Engineering Society.
About two weeks ago the men 
comprising the day class in civil en­
gineering got together and organized 
a society for mutual aid in their 
work of the next two years and for 
the benefit to be derived from fre­
quent social gatherings.
'The following officers were elected 
for the following yeaT: Coursin,
president; Provost, vice president; 
Vincent, secretary, and Applegate, 
treasurer.
A week ago the men held their 
first meeting at the home of Mr. 
Siesel, where they were dined in 
royal style, and afterward listened to 
an address by Dr. Thayer. The men 
are fortunate in having Profs. Thay­
er, Hokenson and Reed as active 
members of their organization.
Everybody sing—
“Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn’s 
early light,
The flag that so proudly waves”— 
from yonder height?
“Where did you get that hat?” 
“Say, fellows, don’t you know that 
tune is stale?”—Seipp.
HOCKEY OUTLOOK.
At a meeting of the members of 
last year’s hockey team, held during 
the past week, officers were elected 
for the coming season. John Charles, 
of Pittsburg, the fast forward of the 
1905 team, was elected captain, and 
Rodney Chester, of Pittsburg, man­
ager. Judging by the showing made 
by last year's aggregation this year s 
team should give a good account of 
themselves when the referee’s whistle 
blows. It is understood that a num­
ber of games have been scheduled 
with the big Eastern colleges, and it 
is hoped that the close score of lost 
season’s Yale game may be reversed.
The first practice game will be 
held as early as possible, and from 
the present outlook there will be 
plenty of first class material from 
which to pick a winning team.
PROCLAMATION
When in the course of college 
events, it becomcs necessary, for 
the welfare of the school and of 
the Plebes themselves, that they 
be taught their places in relation 
to the JUNIOR CLASS and the 
Institution, we the said JUNIOR 
CLASS do proclaim and announce 
these rules to be followed and 
obeyed strictly by said Plebes:-
I. The operation of drawing in 
and blowing out of tobacco smoke 
by said Plebes shall not, under any 
circumstances, be permitted in the 
buildings;
II. Said Plebes shall not loiter 
on front steps or on pavement 
directly in front of them;
III. Said Plebes shall not asend 
aforsaid steps and enter by upper 
aperture, as this is to be kept Holy 
and used only by faculty and 
CLASS OF 1908;
IV. Said Plebes shall not wear 
plaid in any form till after Easter.
V. Said Plebes shall not wear 
any insigna. numerals, letters or 
pin of any other schools.
VI. Said Plebes shall not pour 
hot metal upon themselves, as the 
odor of burning flesh is disagree­
able to the JUNIORS.
Above rules decreed, and ap­
proved by the
CLASS OF 1908.
“THE GRAND OLD RAG.”
Not only the Schenley Park police 
and the public at large, but 99 per 
cent, of the Tech students would like 
to have the mystery solved as to 
who put the flag of ’08 on the pole 
at Flagstaff Hill. Everyone seems to 
suspect everyone else of- complicity 
in the matter, but no one is certain. 
Whoever it was certainly knows how 
to keep a thing under their hat or 
hats. In the meantime the flag waves 
serenely, oblivious to the large 
amount of comment caused by its 
position. Even the reporters on the 
“Tartan’s” staff have been unable to 
learn who’s who, and seem inclined 
to class it among the “unsolved mys­
teries,” such as “Who stole Butcher’s 
pies,” etc.
' PLEBE OFFICERS.
On the afternoon of Wednesday, 
October. 17, the Plebes held a meet­
ing for the election of their perma­
nent officers, who are to take the 
places of the men temporarily elect­
ed. W. K. Adams was elected presi­
dent; W. Ur ling, vice president; J. 
Charles, secretary, and D. Challinor, 
treasurer. We understand the elec­
tion was a hot one, some of the men 
winning by a narrow margin only.
THE FRATERNITIES.
The fraternity idea !s now a rea-l- 
ity in our ranks. There have b^en 
murmurings in and around the 
school in muffled tcnes since Sep­
tember about this idea. Let there be 
no more doubt. A fraternity or fra­
ternities do exist at Tech. One comes 
out, declares its existence and makes 
no secret of its intentions and what 
it stands for. The paramount issue 
is the absolute and undivided frater­
nal spirit and feeling amongst its 
members, and the “Help the other 
fellow” idea will be ever in evidence. 
The fellows mean to disregard all 
school politics, realizing that that 
factor in fraternities in general does 
most to quash school spirit and keep 
the offices amongst the s°lected few.
It might be well also at this time 
to make an allusion or two to this 
same thing called school politics. 
Perhaps one of the least glorious vic­
tories ¡a main may gftj'n is one which he 
has gained by taking the position of 
suppliant and begged for votes, and 
has had his lieutenants do likewise. 
No man need tell the fellows, that he is 
the best' man for the office—a body 
like ours is quick to find out the man 
they wish to place their trust in. Let 
us keep out this annihilator of school 
spirit, viz., Politics,, for all times.
