IlluniTARTAN
Volume 66 — Number 3Wednesday, September 28, I960
Tech Creates New Post 
For Draft Problems
Announcement was made last week of the appointment 
of Mrs. Mary Ryan as special assistant to the Dean of Men 
Mrs. Ryan will concern herself solely with students’ Selec­
tive Service problems and veterans’ affairs. At the same 
time several items of significance to students were made
known.
All students who are perma­
nent residents of the United 
States must register for the draft 
within five business days follow­
ing their 18th birthday. Students 
are advised that they may regis­
ter for the draft at the Selective 
Service Board on the seventh 
floor of the Federal building at 
1000 Liberty Avenue at the cor­
ner of Grant and Liberty. A stu­
dent may register there whether 
he is a resident of Pittsburgh or 
not. He should, however, if he is 
not a resident, ask the board to 
notify his home board of his reg­
istry.
Mrs. Ryan further stated that 
the deferment forms for students 
are now being prepared. These 
forms will contain only the stu­
dent’s class and not his academic 
standing. The standings and re­
ports are filed in June. Further, 
Mrs. Ryan said that any student 
whose number of years of college 
does not coincide with his class 
designation must file a special re­
port. These reports are available 
through Mrs. Ryan at her office 
in W.H. 210.
Mrs. Ryan also pointed out 
that first - year graduate stu­
dents who have a deferment 
of their ROTC active duty must 
also file a report. Again these 
may be obtained through her 
office.
Finally, Mrs. Ryan explained 
that in her new job she will be 
acting solely as the agent of Car­
negie Tech and the student, and 
not the United States Govern­
ment. Any student who has a 
problem regarding Selective Serv­
ice is urged to stop by for help. 
Among services available axe as­
sistance in filing appeals as well 
as straightening out records.
Information concerning the 
draft tests to be held in Novem­
ber will be published in the Tar­
tan as it is made known.
Faculty Recital
The Department of Music of the 
College of Fine Arts will present 
a faculty recital September 30 at 
12:30 pm in Exhibition Hall.
Violinist Sidney Harth, head of 
the Music Department, and pian­
ist Harry Franklin, associate pro­
fessor of music, will play “Sonata 
for Violin and Piano No. 1” by 
Virgil Thompson and “Sonata for 
Piano and Violin” by Cesar 
Franck.
JOIN THE PIPERS
PIPERS NEEDED
Freshmen and sophomores espe­
cially are invited to join the Kiltie 
Pipe Corps. Pipers and tenor and 
bass drummers are needed. No mus­
ical experience is necessary, and in­
struments will be supplied.
5:30 p.m. Thursday 
Skibo 200
TechC rattsNNhh whPsohC 
Fa Dscc fhbNC lm EhNsNsai
No campus-wide election will be held to fill the ten vacant seats in Student Senate, 
according to a special report submitted to the Tartan by the Senate Rules Committee. 
The following procedure, quoted directly from the committee’s report, will be used instead:
“It was decided to fill vacant
MDC Plans To Improve 
Living Conditions In Dorms
by Tom Moore
The men’s dormitory officers for this school year, Den­
nis Rosenfeld, president, Ed Novotny, vice-president, and 
Les Kania, treasurer, plan a vigorous campaign to improve 
living conditions for dormitory residents. Not only do they 
intend to improve the physical environment but also to im­
prove social and extracurricular facilities and to update the 
structure of the dormitory governing body, Men’s Dormi­
tory Council.
As the official representative 
of men dormitory residents, the 
council will act as an advisor to 
the administration on questions 
concerning the building of new 
dormitories and the improvement 
of the present dormitories. Some 
of the improvements they have 
in mind include lounges such as 
the one in Donner Hall or a tele­
phone system similar to the type 
in Morewood ardens. With more 
income from the vending ma­
chines this year, the council hopes 
to be able to make more im­
provements.
To improve the social and 
extracurricular life of resi­
dents, the council intends to 
sponsor more and varied so­
cial events in addition to keep­
ing the men posted on events 
off campus. They also hope to 
provide more free-time activ­
ities such as pool, table tennis, 
etc. Also, the council hopes to 
sponsor a stronger intramural 
program by getting more resi­
dents into well organized dorm 
teams like the E.J.s, who fin­
ished high in several I.M. sports 
last year.
The council plans to change its 
constitution in order to agree with 
the new Student Senate constitu­
tion and to make other improve­
ments. It also hopes to improve 
the court system to make it more 
effective.
Men’s Dorm Council consists of 
the presidents of the five “hill” 
dorms, the presidents of the floors 
of Donner Hall, and the presi­
dents of the wings of Hammer- 
schlag.
Thistle Photos
There will be an organizational 
meeting of the 1967 Thistle Pho­
tography staff September 29 at 
4:45 pm in the Thistle Room, 
Skibo 53. All interested freshmen 
as well as upperclassmen are 
urged to attend. If this date and 
time are inconvenient please con- 
tact Stan Sholik at 521-5122 or 
leave a note addressed to him in 
Skibo 53 expressing your interest 
and how you can be contacted. 
All Thistle equipment borrowed 
for the summer by last year’s 
staff must be returned at this 
time.
Final CFP Tour, 
Informal Party, 
Close Rush
Tartan Photo by John Mera
Fraternity men greet freshmen 
at first rush tour.
Another formal rush tour 
Friday night and an inform­
al “block party” after the 
varsity football game Satur­
day close out the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents’ initial 
series of first-semester rush 
events.
The tour, from 7 to 10 pm, gives 
freshmen a chance to visit the 
fraternity houses they did not see 
on the first tour last Sunday. Men 
who missed the first tour are also 
welcome. Rushees will meet in the 
Skibo ballroom at 7 pm and 
should wear coat and tie.
The block party, which will be 
held outdoors on Morewood Place 
(across the street from the Gar­
dens) from immediately after the 
Oberlin game until 6 pm, is open 
to the entire campus. A live com­
bo, The Ithacas, will provide 
dance music.
SORORITY 
ROUND ROBINS
SUNDAY 
1:45 to 4:00
Casual Dress
Meet in Morewood Rec Room
Particle Physics 
Subject of Buhl 
Science Talks
The Buhl Lectures in The­
oretical Physics will continue 
on the Carnegie Tech cam­
pus through September 30.
Professor Geoffrey F. Chew, a 
member of the faculty at the 
Berkeley campus of the Univer­
sity *of California, is conducting 
the lecture series which is titled 
“Hadrons and the Poles of the 
S-matrix.” He held a general col­
loquium on Monday, September 26 
at 4:30 pm and will hold a theo­
retical physics colloquiun today 
at 4:30 pm. 4
Starting from the first success­
ful theoretical treatment of the 
interaction between pi-mesons and 
nucleons, Professor Chew has con­
tributed essential ideas which 
have become basic for the theo­
retical study of all strongly inter­
acting particles.
The gatherings are in Doher­
ty Hall 2210 on the Carnegie Tech 
campus and are preceded by tea 
and coffee at 4 pm. All interested 
members of the scientific com­
munity are cordially invited to 
attend.
The Buhl Lectures are made 
possible by the Buhl Foundation 
grant which has established the 
Buhl Professorship in Theoretical 
Physics at Carnegie Tech.
seats with both freshmen and 
upperclassmen, if possible. Since 
it is desired to fill vacancies by 
the next meeting of the Senate 
(Tuesday, October 4), and bet 
cause of the lack of time before 
that date, no elections will be 
held. Instead, the following pro­
cedure will be employed: 
“Applicants will submit peti­
tions for the vacant seats. If no 
petitions are submitted for some 
of those seats set aside for fresh­
men, upperclass petitions will be 
used and vice versa. If there are 
still insufficient applicants, the 
seats will remain vacant.
“Applicants may obtain peti­
tions at Skibo 103 after 10:00 
am on Thursday, September 29. 
Petitions should be submitted 
at Skibo 103 at 4:45 pm on 
Monday, October 3. Petitions 
having the most signatures for 
a given office will be selected, 
provided they contain at least 20. 
A petition for a freshman posi­
tion must be signed by fresh­
men from the same constituen­
cy. A petition for an upperclass 
position must be signed by up­
perclassmen from the same con­
stituency. The number of peti­
tions that one person may sign 
will’be proportional to the num­
ber of vacancies in the constit­
uency, and will be specified on 
the petition."
Positions to be filled are: in­
dependent women’s dorm fresh­
men, one seat; independent men’s 
dorm freshmen, one seat; inde-
(Continued on Page 6)
‘Creative Disbelief’ To Be 
Aired At CRA Conference
The skeptic of traditional religion may find his doubts 
investigated next Wednesday, October 5, as the Committee 
On Religious Affairs (CRA) sponsors the initial session of 
The Campus Conference on Creative Disbelief. The confer­
ence, led by three Carnegie Tech chaplains, will begin at 
7:30 p.m. in the Skibo ballroom.
The three speakers, Father 
Philip Walsh of the Roman Cath­
olic Oratory, Rev. James Gard­
ner of the United Oakland Minis­
try, and Pastor Charles Carlson 
of the Lutheran University Cen­
ter, will attempt to cover the 
areas of “Revolution in Religion 
and Ethnics” and “Frontiers of 
Life and Faith.”
Each of the chaplains will give 
a short dialogue exploring crea­
tive disbelief as a way to per­
sonal and meaningful values in 
modern society. They will then 
open themselves to discussion 
from the audience. According to 
Leila Nussbaum, a student rep­
resentative of the CRA, “The con­
ference will not try to ‘softsell’ 
religion.”
The CRA, which sponsored the 
freshman breakfasts, will con­
tinue the topic with discussions 
with chaplains or others as re­
quested or arranged.
Chemistry Tour
All Carnegie Tech students with 
an interest in chemistry, serious 
or casual, are invited to attend 
an American Chemical Society 
tour of the chemistry department 
at 4:30 October 5. The tour will 
begin in the front lobby of Do­
herty Hall and will include dis­
cussions of the general facilities 
and short talks by several gradu­
ate students on their special areas 
of interest. The tour will be of 
particular interest to new mem­
bers of the chemistry department 
and to those who are considering 
future affiliation.
S V S BOARD
There will be a meeting of 
the Scotch and Soda Board 
Sunday, October 2, at 12:30 
p.m. in Skibo 54.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, September 28, 1966
Ceilidh Invites Amateurs 
For Informal Folk Music
By Bob Fraser
Carnegie Tech’s durable “Ceilidh,” pronounced Kay-lee, 
an organization that has provided a focal point for the best 
folk music in Pittsburgh, will begin its sixth season of week­
ly meetings September 30, at 9 pm in the .Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
Ceilidh was founded in 1961 by 
Howard Glasser, Assistant Pro­
fessor of Graphic Arts, who still 
sponsors the group. He also coin­
ed the name, a Scot-Gaelic word 
that expresses the idea Prof.
Glasser had in mind: it means 
an informal gathering or party, 
as held in the Scottish Highlands, 
where the people who come are 
expected to help in making the 
music and general merriment.
The Ceilidh as held in the 
highlands of Oakland is design­
ed to give student and faculty 
folk music enthusiasts a chance 
to exchange songs, ideas and 
techniques, and a chance to try 
out their material — and their 
courage—in front of a sympa­
thetic audience.
Ceilidh is open to anyone, and
Walter Scott and Richard Hughes 
Ceilidh Regulars.
though participation is encouraged, 
it’s not a requirement. There’s 
plenty of room for those who sim­
ply want to listen.
For this reason, Ceilidh has no 
formal membership. “Member­
ship begins when people cross 
the threshold,” says Prof. Glas­
ser, “and they’re welcome to sing 
or play anything they wish.” The 
sessions are strictly informal in 
organizational terms, and any­
thing is likely to happen — and 
often does.
Ceilidh has often attracted mu­
sicians from the general Pitts­
burgh area and occasionally from 
far beyond, performers that have 
sometimes “wandered in” and 
set a session on fire.
Annual Concert 
In addition to the weekly Fri­
day gatherings, Ceilidh sponsors 
an annual concert, usually held 
later in the fall semester. Pre­
vious Ceilidh concerts have pre­
sented such performers as Pete 
Seeger, Doc Watson, Scottish
£olksinger Arthur Argo, Dwayne 
Thorpe, Vivian Richman, Bob 
Schmertz, Mac Martin and the 
Dixie Travelers, Fran Vandivier, 
Myra Elmers, Jerry Rassmussen, 
and Luke Faust. Details for this 
year’s concert will be announced 
shortly.
Ceilidh also features, at the 
Friday meetings, occasional film 
showings or lecture-demonstra- 
tions on some phase of folk 
music.
But for the most part, Ceilidh 
is a meeting ground for students 
—and others—who enjoy music 
and the interchange of musical 
ideas and experiences that can 
sometimes happen at such a 
gathering.
Oct. 4 Assembly 
To Hear Kalb 
On Crisis Areas
Marvin Kalb, CBS New 
Diplomatic Correspondent, 
will speak on “The U.S. in 
the World’s Troublespots” 
at the October 4th assem­
bly. Having traveled widely 
in both Russia and the Far 
East, he will share some of 
his adventures and political 
analysis with his audience.
A graduate from the College 
of the City of New York, and a
Marvin Kalb
former student of Middlebury 
College, Mr. Kalb is now a Har­
vard doctoral candidate in Rus­
sian and Chinese history.
Mr. Kalb is the author of two 
books, Eastern Exposure, based 
on his experiences in the Soviet 
Union, and Dragon in the Krem­
lin, a report on the Russian-Chi- 
nese alliance. He has based his 
forthcoming book, entitled The 
Volga: A Political Assessment, on 
his experiences with Russian 
leaders during a recent five- 
month stay there.
On Stage — In Person 
The
RIGHTEOUS BROTHERS
— plus —
April Stevens & Nino Tempo
EXTRA ADDED ATTRACTION
GAYLORD AND HOLIDAY
TICKETS—$4.75—$3 75-$2,75—Now on tot* in Ooklond ot 
_ Canter's Restaurant, Atwood St. Downtown at Homo's and Gimbal's.
PENN THEATRE - 6th and Penn
“ Saturday, Oct 1 # 8:30 p.m. — One Show Only
Playhouse Opens 
With Brecht’s 
‘A Man’s A Man’
Bertolt Brecht’s comedy A 
Man’s a Man has been chosen 
by John Hancock, director, as 
the opening production of the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse’s “Theater 
of Excitement.”
In the leading roles of the 
Brecht comedy, which will open 
at the Craft Avenue Theater on 
Friday, October 7, Hancock has 
called on such veterans of the 
Broadway stage as Charles Durn- 
ing (Gaby Guy), Alan Manson 
(Bloody Five), William Hanson 
(Jesse Mahoney), and A1 Leber- 
feld (Jeraiah Jip).
Durning’s most recent role 
was Drat! The Cat, while Man­
son, who is currently acting Ken 
Emerson on the CBS television 
series “Edge of Night,” played 
in Broadway’s Funny Girl. Han­
son’s impressive list also includes, 
Brigadoon, Teahouse of the Aug­
ust Moon, and The Visit, and 
Leberfeld’s Inherit the Wind.
The featured female role of 
Widow Begbick in the Brecht 
play has been given to Rhoda 
Gemigname, formerly of the San 
Francisco Actor’s Workshop.
Subscriptions and individual 
tickets are now on sale and may 
be obtained by writing the Play­
house, 222 Craft Ave., Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15213, or phoning 621-4445.
Subscriptions and tickets will 
also be available at a new drive- 
in service center which will be 
opened Monday, September 19, at 
10 am at the Mellon Bank’s Uni­
versity drive-in office at Fifth 
Avenue and Craig Street in Oak­
land.
Playhouse Plus, the women’s 
volunteer arm of the Playhouse, 
will operate the drive-in service 
center from 9:30 am to 5 pm, 
Monday through Friday.
$T*AN
V «3 6992
JOSEPH E. LEVINE
MARCELLO MASTROIANNI 
URSULA ANDRESS ÆÆM
3r J^Kï
Frers ViCTÎM
I A CARLO IPONTI1 Production 1 
1 ^
hmnado ap ­acila yvvtvjKt
LAURENCE HARVEY'DIRK BOGARDE 
JUDE CHRISTIE
Branden To Speak
The first of a series of 20 week­
ly tape-transcribed lectures on 
Objectivist Psychology will be 
presented at 8:00 pm, October 2, 
at the Webster Hall Hotel by Na­
thaniel Branden.
Mr. Branden, author, lecturer, 
and teacher of psychology, is 
founder and president of the Na­
thaniel Branden Institute. He will 
speak on objectivism, the philoso­
phy of Ayn Rand, author of Atlas 
Shrugged. The lecture will deal 
with such issues as the Objectiv- 
ist’s definition of psychology, the 
problems of psychology, the role 
of consciousness, and a critique 
of behaviorism.
HELP WANTED
Set Designer
Lighting Designer
Director
Choreographer
Assistant Costume Designer
Stage Manager
Technical Director
for this year's Scotch & Soda produc­
tion. Interested persons from all de­
partments are asked to meet in Skibo 
54, Sunday, October 2, at 1:00 p.m.
4 MAJOR EVENTS-CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
THIS SAT. EVE.—8:30
A LEGEND IN HIS OWN TIMEPETE SEEGER
FOLK SINGER OF THE WORLD
SAT. EVE—OCT. 8—8:30
RALPH VOTAPEK
S. HUROK presents “Ds&llni”—R.Y. Tims 
¡1st Prise—Van CHbum InfI. Piano Award 
IChopin, Beethoven, Ravel, Mozart programSAT. EVE., OCT. 15—BALLET GRANADA «1 SPAIN
Compony of 25 Brilliant Spanish Dancers, Singers & MusiciansSAT. EVE., OCT. 22—LOS INDIOS TABAJARAS
The Magnificent Brazilian Brothers—DUO GUITARISTS 
Special for Tech Faculty & Students—Tickets at 2 FOR THE PRICE OF 1
Orchestra or First Bale. $5.95 Tickets—Phone Orders Only: 922-2030; 922-2031
nfn
THE UBHTñlIñlB MB
ACROSS TH[ SCREW
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT COUPON $1.00
JOHN F KENNEDY YfAßiS (ff
\uGHimm“MAGNIFICENT 
MOTION 
PICTURE.”— New York Times_______ RUB/ISCc™*nttr, B, OKiGOe* PECK • W»iflen M 0.iktm Bi BKUCi HERSCHEISOMt Prodgcrt Bf «»GtSIfKNS.* » 0SIA P-ofcctior AnEM8ASSVPlCTl«S»«««i m COLOR - Prints fr PA THE PtMinted B, 1« J0H* F WNKDt CENUS W IMf PERFORMING ARTS, 0C .
STARTS TODAY • | Present to Box Office.This coupon and $1.00 will admit a Student or Teacher to any Regular Performance.
WARNERTHEATRE336 Fifth Ave.-Pittsburah. Pa. Kegular Performance,
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
STUDENT SEASON SUBSCRIPTIONS
FRIDAY EVENINGS..............$14.00
SUNDAY AFTERNOONS . . . $12.00
SUBSCRIPTIONS STILL AVAILABLE 
AT SYMPHONY BOX OFFICE — KAUFMANN'S, DOWNTOWN
Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.Student I.D. Required

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 28, 1966 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Page 3
“.. ? Put Away Childish Things”
Ingmar Bergman’s
‘Through A Glass Darkly’
by Stan Thomas
OAKLAND HABERDASHERY SHOP
NEW FALL STYLES IN .. .
Sportswear, Sweaters, Shirts, Suits, Jackets, Hats, Slacks,
Raincoats, Belts, Ties, Socks, Caps, and Umbrellas.
3614 Forbes Ave. Call... 621 *1724
GRAND
PRIZE
WINNER1966CANNESFILM
FESTIVAL
T ATR 
id T NidTR
"'rMt •KLUSQ) IT NIB WISIS
HELD OVER 
LAST SIX DAYS
The showing of Ingmar Bergman's Through a Glass Darkly at the 
opening of the Film Arts series brings the Swedish director once 
again into discussion. The last film Bergman made, About All These 
Women, disappeared after its run in New York where the critics 
agreed it best disappear. There was a time when a Bergman film 
could not appear without everyone embracing it even if it were as 
drab and uninteresting as Winter Light, the film that followed 
Through a Glass Darkly.
Through a Glass Darkly is also rather drab, but it is interesting 
if only because one of the characters is a schizoid; and if mental ill­
ness is not always good tragedy, it will always be good melodrama. 
Karen, the young lady so affected, is in non-psychological terms sex­
ually possessed and possessive. Her possessiveness culminates when 
her brother, the only responsive male in the immediate area, suc­
cumbs to her. The other two characters, her husband, who is medical­
ly interested in her, and her father, who is intellectually interested 
in her, are away discussing her while she seduces the boy. Her sex­
ual possession becomes complete when she is assaulted by the spider- 
God she has created in her schizoid state. After this she is taken 
away to the hospital. In one of her husband’s discussions with her 
father, the hopelessness of her illness has been established.
The film is no more complex than this: Bergman is writing a 
retraction to St. Paul’s first letter to the Corinthians. No Faith. No 
Hope. No Charity. God is lust. Bergman is not celebrating this realiza­
tion, but bemoaning and belaboring it. The trouble is that the schizoid 
daughter steals the show from the initiate brother who is about to 
enter the sterile world of the adults around him. The final irony of 
the film is missed because Minus accepts Karen’s seduction and his 
father’s platitudes. The ending with Minus tells the audience that the 
boy is ready to accept the platitudes which, according to the rest of 
the film, Bergman has ceased to believe. Minus must realize that 
what father has said is as useless to him as it was to Karen.
Through a Glass Darkly was the first of Bergman’s God-Man 
trilogy. It was followed by Winter Light and The Silence. In Winter 
Light and in this film we watch conversations and we see the beauti­
ful frames that are more evocative of Bergman than the actual films 
they are taken from. Bergman is a technician and a craftsman, but 
all the technique and craft are often only a veneer over a not quite 
realized philosophy never quite expressed in cinematic terms.
lull III I III ¦r||||||||l||{|||||||l|||i|l||l||,[|,|||!|ll|,l|||||||l|||,||iai||,,a.iai,a,,Bi.ai!Bilai:tiiai|lll||,|ll|l||l||;||| limns:(Campus Y Classes, Sign Up Now, 57 Skiboi
I Registration Deadline Today., Sept. 29th |
| BRIDGE—beginning and intermediate, $2 for Y members, | 
| $4 for non-members. §
= PHOTOGRAPHY—beginning and intermediate, $2 for Y 1 
| members, $4 for non-members, begins Oct. 18th.
| INVESTMENTS—understanding the stock market and plan- | 
| ning a portfolio, $3 for Y members, $4 for non-mem- =
| bers, begins Oct. 3rd.
GUITAR—beginning lessons in folk style, $2 for Y members, § 
| begins Oct. 5. |
- BALLROOM DANCING—$3 for Y members, $4 for non- =
| members, begins Oct. 7.
? SPEED READING—$20 for Y members, $25 for non-mem- | 
bers, plus $3.95 text, two sessions per week begin- | 
| ning Oct. 4, 16 participants needed. i
| RADICAL THEOLOGY-the "death of God" theology and I 
= other new theological trends, taught by Rabbi Richard 1
Rubenstein, free to Hillel and Y members, $3 for others, i
- begins Oct. 4th. =
A Phi O Holds 
Rush Smoker 
Thursday Night
The Carnegie Tech Kappa 
chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, 
the national service fratern­
ity, will hold a rush smoker 
this Thursday at 7 pm in 
Scobell Lounge. All male stu­
dents, and particularly fresh­
men, are invited. Member­
ship in a social fraternity 
does not preclude member­
ship in A Phi O, nor vies 
versa.
One of A Phi O’s chief projects 
is the publishing of the C-Book, 
the complete campus telephone 
directory. This year’s C-Book will 
be available in a few weeks. All 
campus elections, whether for 
Student Senate President or Ug­
liest Man on Campus, are spon­
sored and run by A Phi O.
The tours at Freshman Orienta­
tion, refreshment stand at foot­
ball games, and the annual Christ­
mas tree in the Skibo lobby are 
all A Phi O services.
An A Phi O brother has sum­
med up the objectives of the fra­
ternity: “Through service to oth­
ers, the fraternity serves itseli.
PROTESTANT WORSHIP 
Sunday 11 A.M.
SKIBO CHAPEL
(Room 39)
For All Students and Faculty
and piTE,S
Pizza
SPECIAL 
ITALIAN DISHES
411 SOUTH CRAIG 682-8691
Orchestra Plans 
Three Concerts 
At Music Hall
The Carnegie College Commun­
ity Orchestra of 1966-67 has an­
nounced the scheduling of three 
performances which will be pro­
duced at the Carnegie Music Hall.
The first concert will be given 
on December 11 at 8:30 pm. The 
orchestra, conducted by Sidney 
Harth, will feature the works of 
world-famous guest composer, 
Virgil Thompson who is teaching 
at Carnegie Tech this year, and 
Carlos Surinach. Mr. Harth has 
chosen Thompson’s Three Tone 
Pictures as part of this program; 
Harth was concert-master for the 
world premier of this work.
The second concert, to be given 
on March 18, 1967, at 8:30, spon­
sored by the Alumni Foundation, 
will be conducted by Chauncey 
Kelley, who is currently conduc­
tor of the Savannah, Georgia, 
Symphony, and a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech. This concert will 
feature Sigurd Rascher, saxo­
phonist, in a world premier.
The final program will be the 
annual Concerto Concert, to be 
given on April 16, at 8:30.
Homecoming
Tickets
Tickets for Homecoming 1966 
go on sale today in Baker Hall 
lobby and Skibo 103. More infor­
mation about tickets is available 
from Warren Crown at 682-9455 
or Rich Steffens at 682-9053.
Two Nights Syria Mosque 
SAT., OCT 8th—SUN, OCT. 9th
TICKETS: $2.50—$3.50—$4.50 
Now on sale at Horne's and Gimbel's 
downtown. Mail order»—write Shows, 
Inc., Box 532, Pittsburgh 30. Please 
enclose stamped envelope.
TICKETS MAY BE BOUGHT 
AT THE PITT BOOK CENTER
Burlington
Hold that crease?
You bet it will.
If the fabric is one of the great, 
new permanent-press blends 
of 2-ply polyester and cotton 
masterminded by Galey & Lord. 
For the new dimension 
in collegiate slacks, 
look to

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, September 28, 1966
Editorial
Educational Potential
In the flurry of activity and speculation following the 
announcement that Tech and Mellon Institute would merge, 
the emphasis on the financial aspects of the merger seemed 
to overshadow the educational potential of the new Uni­
versity.
Time, in its September 28 issue, appeared content with 
its glib comment that Tech chose a “slice of Mellon” over 
a “piece of the state tax pie” in seeking financial sources. 
In dwelling on this aspect, the Time article gives only pass­
ing notice to the changes that will be made, and their effect 
on Carnegie as an educational institution. Since both insti­
tutions have been operating in the black, the merger was 
not one of economic necessity; nor is either engulfed by the 
other. Rather, the primary considerations were the en­
hancement of Tech’s already excellent engineering and sci- 
nce school and the creation, as a part of the new university, 
of a co-ed humanities and social sciences college.
Paul C. Cross, President of Mellon Institute, noted 
that the institute “becomes a part of a great university,” 
and as such, benefits by it.
In addition to the Time article, the local papers dwelt 
on the details of the merger itself. Although coverage was 
given to the changes involved, and the structure of the new­
ly established university, these papers were only slightly 
concerned about the future of Carnegie University, and its 
role in higher education in western Pennsylvania. Further, 
the Pitt News, the Tartan’s counterpart across Panther hol­
low, confined its coverage to explaining, at great length, 
the financial aspects of Pitt’s state-relatedness, and how 
Pitt still welcomes income from private sources.
In short, the major and vital issue has been nrssed, 
or avoided. Most important is the effect the creation of 
the new university will have on the university commun­
ity, both now and in the future.
The impact will be the greatest in the engineering and 
science schools. The combination of Tech and Mellon staf s 
will certainly maintain, if not improve the already exce’lent 
teaching in these areas. These additional professional en­
gineers and scientists will round out teaching staffs, a~d 
serve to establish Carnegie as a foremost research institu­
tion. The concomitant broading of the curriculum will enable 
the student enrolled in these areas to obtain the best pos­
sible education with the variety and specialization he seeks. 
Further, the establishment of a front-ranked research and 
educational institution will attract good students, both on 
the undergraduate and graduate levels, and professionals, 
both as researchers and teachers.
The whole university community will profit from the 
new College of Humanities and Social Sciences. As Dean 
Norman Rice of the College of Fine Arts pointed out, the 
courses in history now taught by the Fine Arts faculty 
could be taught by their counterparts in this new college. 
By the same token, the humanities and social science pro­
gram as part of the engineering and science curriculum can 
be expanded to cover new fields, and broaden existing ones.
The creation of this co-ed college will open new educa­
tional possibilities for men at Carnegie. Prior to this time, 
male students wishing to transfer from the sciences or en­
gineering into the humanities Tere forced necessarily to 
leave Tech and seek enrollment elsewhere. However, the 
inception of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
will enable male students to choose a specific field in any 
area to switch from one area to another with a minimum of 
trouble. As a result, an intellectual or educational middle 
ground will be formed between the artist and the scientist 
or engineer.
A final aspect of the influence Carnegie University will 
have is that on the surrounding community and on higher 
education in general. The concentration on academic inte1- 
lectual possibilities, and research talent in this vicinity will 
certainly have an effect on all of western Pennsylvania. In 
fact, this complex has already been hailed as a potential 
center of excellence similar to the Harvard-MIT area in 
Boston. C-xmegie University, as_seen by most members of the 
university community, has the potential to become a super­
ior educational center. It is particularly noteworthy, and 
no less important, that students have greeted this concept 
with enthusiasm. Hence, to present this merger primarily 
as a financial coup grossly misinterprets and misrepresents 
the motives and goals of the university.
With the concept of Carnegie University destined to 
become a reality, the most enviable if not most fortunate, 
group concerned in this is the freshman class. On them, and 
on classes following, Carnegie University will have its great­
est impact.
TARTAN DEADLINES
COPY . ..Thursday 8 p.m. preferred; 
Deadline Sunday 5 p.m.
ADVERTISING . . .Saturday 6 pjn.
CLASSIFIED ADS . . .Sunday 6 p.m.
ORS
H.PA
Readers Write
Floyd Praises 
Student Cooperation
Editor, the Tartan:
The lead editorial in last week’s 
Tartan, devoted mostly to the in­
adequacy of the Book Store fa­
cility, laid bare a number of prob­
lems of which the student body, 
the faculty, and the administra­
tion have long been aware. How­
ever, we who operate the Store 
are even more aware of them and 
fervently hope that there will be 
some alleviation of these prob­
lems in the not too distant fu­
ture.
We are pleased that the criti­
cism was not extended to the 
personnel of the Store in the edi­
torial. We are daily faced with 
the problems of inadequate aisle 
storage space, cramped office 
areas, and other inconveniences. 
However, the purpose of my let­
ter is not to dwell at length on 
these things.
My reason for writing is to 
congratulate and thank the stu­
dents for being so patient dur­
ing this “rush” period. We who 
did our best to take care of 
your wants and to serve you 
want to state that the student 
cooperation really couldn’t have 
been better. Waiting in a long 
line with a heavy armful of 
books and supplies for the pri­
vilege of paying a stiff bill at
the cash register is no one’s 
idea of fun. Those who waited 
outside the Store while the 
gates were closed formed a line 
extending up the staircase and 
into the hall. Students took their 
turns coming into the Store as 
space inside permitted. We very 
seldom saw anyone breaking 
into the line and not taking his 
turn. This was a self-imposed 
discipline that we considered 
quite mature. Those standing at 
the counter to have their bills 
tallied were cooperative by fill­
ing in their checks as much as 
they could as they waited. We 
heard little or no complaining in 
instances where text books 
had been ordered but not re­
ceived on time for classes. I 
could go on, but I do want to 
convey the thought that we are 
sympathetic with the students 
and are looking forward to a bet­
ter future for us all as far as 
the Book Store is concerned.
As pointed out in the editorial, 
the Book Store is to benefit by 
the removal of the Post Office to 
another location. This will enable 
us to remodel the whole area and 
partially alleviate inadequate con­
ditions. At this writing it can­
not be said how soon this renova­
tion will occur, but we will work 
toward having major changes ac­
complished before the end of this 
school year.
Charles S. Floyd 
Manager, Book Store
.. carnegie tech „.ifIIIIIIITARTAIMIIlll
RICHARD G. SEXTRO
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor.............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor........................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager...........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.......................................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor.................................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..........................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager.......................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ...............................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor.............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager: Harvey A. Shapiro.
Printing Production Staff: Joe Rubenfeld.
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Setey.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Larry 
Fantouzzi, Larry Friedman, Ellen Levine, Sue Lohmeyer, Ken Lutz, 
Chipper Monk, Tom Moore, Richard Morrison, Jane Riva, Ruth 
Rothstein, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Carol Schuman, 
Louise Schwerin, Jean Siegal, Peggy Smolen, Rich Steffens, Joan 
Sztyga, Howard Weiss, Marianne Wisdom.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith.
Layout Staff: Ellen Blissman, David Caney, Michael Cramer, David Landsberger. 
Photography Staff: Mark Kaminsky, David Leavitt, Gordon Morris, Mike Perel, 
Margaret Rubel.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson, Tina vom Saal.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechel, Mary Olds, William Opfermann.
Annual Subscription Rat«: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pi*tsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc
Specific Problems
Editor, the Tartan:
Congratulations on your fine 
editorial titled “Inadequate Fa­
cility” in the September 21 issue. 
The inadequacies of the C.I.T. 
bookstore have been felt by many 
students not only in the past two 
weeks, but in the past several 
years. Where else can a person 
say “Excuse me!” ten times and 
only travel ten feet, knocking 
down a pile of freshmen texts in 
the process? Indeed, our book­
store does not have anywhere 
near the floorspace that it should 
have to serve an institution with 
curriculums ranging from home 
economics to drama to electrical 
engineering.
Three of the problems may be 
seen in the following actual ex­
ample. Several days ago I was 
standing in the check-out line be­
hind two new students who wished 
to buy some art supplies. After 
waiting 25 minutes in the usual 
long line that clogs the aisles, the 
two students reached the woman 
who would tally their purchases. 
Here the students were informed 
that they could not purchase the 
supplies since they did not have 
the required adding machine 
slips from the “art department.” 
So, disgustedly they carried their 
future purchases back to the art 
dtpartment, waited a few more 
minutes to get the precious slips, 
ai*d then had to “Excuse me!” 
their w.iy to the back of the line 
to the cashier. What sort of a 
way is this to favorably impress 
new students?
The major problems here are 
these:
(1) Lack of adequate check­
out facilities for the rush sea­
son that begins every semester.
(2) Overly crowded conditions 
that get even worse with 30 or 
so individuals in each line and 
a mob outside still waiting to 
enter the bookstore.
(3) The need of the art de­
partment adding machine slip 
for aU purchases which, despite 
any present methods, the new­
comer is often painfully una- 
waic of. In fact, it is not even 
clear which articles require the 
ilip. For example, a bottle of 
pink ink can be "bought sans 
slip but india ink cannot.
The new administration has 
done quite well so far in provid­
ing I.M. field lights, a revamped 
food system, and the merger with 
Mellon Institute. Why neglect a 
problem that affects every stu­
dent, not just part of the student 
body as most of the other im­
provements do?
Karl Leek 
Senior
Chemical Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 28, 1966 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Page 5TPtìflKA
By John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Boys Will Be Girls
“You might as well sit back and enjoy yourselves, because if 
you’re here your reputations are shot to hell anyway." So begins one 
of the best female impersonation shows around: The Todd Allen Revue, 
now appearing Monday thru Saturday nights at the Swizzle Stick 
Lounge in Oakland (Atwood. Street at Forbes). Todd Allen is the 
A headliner and master (mistress?) of ceremonies; Jeff Dennings 
dances; and Tony Ricco does a comedy routine and sings some swing­
ing New Orleans jazz tunes. It is a well-balanced show backed by the 
Lee Gross Trio Monday thru Thursday and, the fabulous Gene and 
Jeannie Quartet Friday and Saturday. There is dancing between 
shows.
We were especially impressed by Todd Allen, whose impersona­
tion is almost flawless. In addition he exhibits a good singing voice 
and a quick tongue in handling hecklers. We approached Todd for 
an interview and he was reluctant at first, but finally consented to 
a twenty-minute taped interview. Between laughing and trying to 
recover from Tod<Ts bards at us, we managed to get some revealing 
answers to our questions, many of which were unprintable either from 
our viewpoint or Todd's. In reading the interview keep in mind that 
Todd was in costume and character the whole time and that it was 
carried out in good fun.
Troika: What is a female impersonator?
Todd: Don’t you people understand English?
Troika: How did you get started in the business? 
f*' Todd: It’s personal story and I would rather not discuss it.
Troika: Could you give us a history of Female Impersonators?
Todd: I could but who cares. I’ve heard a few stories about it.
I guess some weirdo decided to put a dress on to make a few 
dollars, I don't know.
Troika: Who are some of the great female impersonators, ones
that you admire?
Todd: That I admire? I don’t admire any of them. I envy one, but 
only because he’s making good money or was.
(fc Troika: How do women react to you?
Todd: It depends on the age and personality of the woman. It’s an 
individual thing. Mostly if it’s a young girl, they’re not a very 
good audience. Middle aged women seem like they’ve reached 
the stage where they feel “what’s the difference,” lots of luck. 
But the younger ones, there’s hostility with the exception of may­
be a few swingers. Usually they just don’t dig us. We’re competi­
tion, heaven knows.
Troika: How do men react to you?
Todd: As a general rule they’re not a good audience. I prefer work- 
^ ing to women.
Troika: Would people guess you were a female impersonator if they 
hadn’t been told?
Todd: It’s funny. You tell people that you are and they still don’t
believe you. Some are so gullible that as long as you have a cos­
tume on, they’re in a state of confusion and figure, “Well, this 
has to be a woman!” You can look like the worst dog in the 
world, you’re still a woman.
Troika: Any unusual things happen to you on the stage?
| Todd: The funniest things that happened, you couldn’t print. Be- 
cause they were physical accidents.
Troika: What’s in the future for you?
Todd: The future, what’s that? You silly fool. More agony. Plenty 
of suffering. I should be asking you that. Who made up these 
questions? They're pretty bad.
Troika: What are your measurements?
Todd: Cool it. What are my measurements? My measurements can 
be anything I want them to be.
Troika: This may seem like a silly question:
£ Todd: They’ve all seemed like silly questions.
Troika: There doesn’t seem to be a market for male impersonators.
Why?
Todd: There doesn’t seem to be. I guess because they don’t have
glamour. With female impersonators it’s the costume. Male im­
personators have to have talent. I’ve only seen one offhand that 
I consider very talented. What would it mean, just standing there 
in a man’s suit? With female impersonators the costume is 90 per 
cent of it. Most of us don’t have an ounce of talent or we wouldn’t 
be doing this in the first place.
^ Troika: Would you say that the demand for female impersonators
is on the increase or decrease?
Todd: Well, in Pittsburgh I would say the demand has been non­
existent. It depends on the city’s night life. If the city has a 
night life, people don’t want cute things, they wants acts on the 
risque side. They can see cute things on TV. People who go out 
at night want to see strippers, or dirty comics, or female imper­
sonators. If it’s not there, they won’t go out, and the people that 
stay home regardless and have their little goody or whatever 
they do.
^ Troika: What cities do you like?
Todd: I like Miami. It’s nice if you have a lot of money. Of course,
any place is if you have a lot of money.
Ti oiita; Any last comments?
I odd: Yes, I think this interview was silly. Don’t you?
Troika: Yes.
Foreign Service 
Representative 
To Visit Tech.
Mr. Thomas R. Shaver of 
the State Department will 
)e at Carnegie Tech Octo­
ber 12 to discuss the U.S. 
Foreign Service with inter­
ested students. The meeting 
will be in Skibo 45 from 1 
to 5 p.m.
“In Search of Peace,” a film 
featuring senior state department 
officials, will be shown at 1:30 
and 3:00, and Shaver will answer 
questions about careers in the 
Foreign Service.
The next written examination 
for the foreign service will be 
given December 3, 1966, and ap­
plications must be filed before 
October 22. Individuals success­
ful on the written examination 
will be invited to take an oral 
examination before a panel of 
senior officers during the spring.
The duties of Foreign Service 
Officers into the broad categories 
of political and economic report­
ing and analysis; consular af­
fairs; administration; and com­
mercial work. Entering junior of­
ficers can expect to receive ex­
perience in several of these fields, 
and in different areas of the 
world, before initiating career 
specialization. All candidates 
should be well-grounded in eco­
nomics, U. S. and world history, 
political science, and government. 
In addition, man officers are need­
ed who have specialized qualifi­
cations in administration or area 
and language studies.
(otite mjj ora ry (Commentary.
Brooke Emerges 
In Massachusetts
by Linda Pecaites
Standing on a street comer, reaching out for hands to shake, 
somewhere in Massachusetts is a fastidiously dressed, handsome, 
middle-aged Negro. Certainly an unusual sight anywhere in the 
country, but then Edward M. Brooke is a politician.
Massachusetts’ extremely able Republican Attorney-General is 
campaigning for the state’s U.S. Senate seat and shows every sign oi 
winning against an uninspiring Democratic nominee, Endicott Pea­
body. Peabody, a former governor, does nothing but enhance Brooke’s 
brilliance with his lackluster public image and his frigid personality.
An administration man with little imagination of his own, Pea­
body’s most potent campaign weapon will probably prove to be Sena­
tor Edward Kennedy, who certainly doesn’t want his position as 
“prima” politician challenged.
Brooke is more than capable of handling any challenge that the 
Kennedy machine might offer. A rare politician who relies on cogni­
zance of al issues through carefu homework, he has gained for him­
self the reputation of a man with potential to win, and win big, pri­
marily through his 1964 plurality of 860,000 votes in a year when 
Republicans were being swept off the boards as a reaction of Gold- 
water, and in a state that, has a two to one Democratic registration 
edge plus thousands of independents who usually go with the ma­
jority ticket.
Brooke goes to great lengths to present carefully documented
and researched handouts and though not an inteectua, he is an intelli­
gent politician who always acquits himself well. His civil-rights paper 
has taken a forthright stand on such issues as fair-housing (all hous­
ing financed by federally backed banking institutions should be cov­
ered) and indemnity for those depraved of federally-guaranteed 
rights.
Brooke’s stand in Vietnam is wisely neutral in a hawk-dove mix­
ed state. As a moderate Republican, he is extremely attractive to 
Massachusetts voters and also attractive on the national scene. His 
reputation as an earnest, capable politician should leave him without 
worries for election; but his campaign headquarters has one whispered 
fear: the nebulous white backlash.
Although there has been no personal reaction to Brooke him­
self, the power of the backlash vote has yet to be measured. Peabody 
himself is a liberal on civil rights, but it is extremely possible that 
his campaign may move more to the right in the final swing months.
Although he has received no financial help from GOP chairman 
Ray Bliss, and national leadership shows indifference to his cam­
paign, Mr. Brooke will probably serve as a core for party unity if he 
wins in November, and will emerge as one of the new Republican 
leaders.
Duff Accepts Position
Soliciting CIT Funds
Pittsburgh attorney John M. Duff has been appointed 
Director of Estate Planning at Carnegie Tech. Having re­
ceived a Princeton University A.B. degree and a University 
of Pittsburgh LL.B. degree, he served in an official capacity 
in several banking organizations including Pittsburgh Na­
tional Bank, Fidelity Trust Company, Potter Title and Trust 
Company, and the Gallatin National Bank in Uniontown.
Duff, a Pittsburgh resident, has 
had considerable teaching experi­
ence in his own and related fields.
He was a member of the Student 
Tutoring Bureau at Princeton and 
later conducted a law school 
graduates’ preparatory course for 
the Pennsylvania Bar examina­
tion. He has also taught courses 
in commercial law and trust busi­
ness at the Pittsburgh chapter of 
the American Institute of Bank­
ing.
In his job as Director of Estate 
Planning, Duff works with De­
velopment in soliciting funds for 
Carnegie Tech. He is primarily 
concerned with aiding those peo­
ple who want to leave money to 
the school to make out their 
wills. Another aspect of Estate 
Planning is the program through 
which the gift of a donor is in­
vested so that the donor receives 
the interest during his lifetime 
after which the principle goes to 
the college. During this process, 
according to Duff, the knowledge 
of law helps to cut down the por­
tion of the estate going to the 
government as taxes.
John M. Duff
Duff’s work is closely associ­
ated with that of other campus 
officials. For instance, he works 
with John Johnson, Vice-Presi­
dent for Planning, and with R. 
D. Strathmeyer, Dean of Busi­
ness Affairs, concerning the in­
vestment of Carnegie funds.
Seven Receive 
Research Grants 
In Music, GSIA
Grants were given this 
year to seven Carnegie Tech 
instructors to continue pro­
fessional endeavors in their 
respective fields.
Nikolai Lopatnikoff, professor 
of music, has been awarded a 
$7,500 grant by the National En­
dowment for the Arts. The award 
is granted to painters, sculptors, 
poets, novelists, and composers 
teaching at institutions of higher 
learning. It is designed to give 
such artists more time to pursue 
creative work in the arts.
Professor Frederick Dorian, mu­
sic, has received $23,750 from the 
Pittsburgh Foundation and the 
Wherrett Memorial Fund for re­
search for a proposed sequel to 
his book, Commitment to Culture.
In the graduate field, Michael
C. Lovell, associate professor of 
economics at GSIA, has been 
awarded $33,600 by the National 
Science Foundation to examine 
business inventory investment 
and its effect on business cycles 
and aggregate economic activity. 
The NSF has also granted $42,-
400 for a project entitled “The 
Theory of Induced Technical 
Change” under the director of 
Morton I. Kamien and Nancy L. 
Schwarts, both assistant profes­
sors of GSIA.
Hie Ford Foundation granted 
faculty fellowships to Assistant 
Professor Robert E. Lucas, Jr. and 
Associate Professor Andrew C. 
Stedry, both oi GSIA.

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIED I
WMM * , '
HIGH INCOME JOBS ON CAMPUS 
Get a high payig job in sales, distribu­
tion or market research right on your 
own eampus. Become a campus repre­
sentative for over forty magazines, Amer­
ican Airline*, Operation Match, eta. and 
earn big part-time money doing interest­
ing work. Apply right away I Collegiate 
Marketing, Dept. H, 27 E. 22 St., New 
York, N.Y. 10010.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobacco - in the City!
BRIAR BOWL
3752 Forbes St. 681-6045 
Nationally 
Advertised 
Pipps
681-6045?
Page 6 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, September 28, 1966
Wildlife Films 
Begin Series 
Sunday at Skibo
The Audubon Society of 
Western Pennsylvania will 
begin its 1966-67 series of 
wildlife films and lectures at 
7:30 pm, Sunday, October 2, 
in the Skibo Ballroom. This 
initial feature length color 
film is entitled New England 
Saga, and illustrates the rug­
ged beauty of these north­
eastern states and the story 
of their wildlife, including 
the animals’ adaptation to 
the ways of man.
Dr. John D. Bulger, National 
Audubon Society lecturer, will be 
in Pittsburgh to show his film. 
He is the first of five top-ranking 
wildlife photographer- lecturers 
who will appear at Skibo this 
season. The schedule for the 
other offerings is as follows:
Mexican Adventure by C. P.
Lyons Oct. 30;
Inherit the Wild by D. J. Nel­
son Dec. 4;
Wilderness Trails by C. Hotch­
kiss Feb. 26, and
Galapagos-Wild Eden by R. T. 
Peterson April 9.
Tickets for the entire series 
may be obtained from Audubon 
Ticket Sales, P.O. Box 234, Se- 
wickley, Pa. 15143; or for fur­
ther information telephone 741- 
5535 or 741-5896. Season tickets 
for the five film-lecture series are 
$2.20 for students, $5.50 for 
adults, and $13.20 for families. 
Prices for single admission tick­
ets are $1.65 for adults and 55 
cents for students.
These tickets will be sold at the 
door. Proceeds from the series 
will go to further the cause of 
conservation. Those interested in 
other activities of the society are 
invited to direct their inquiries 
to the Audubon Society of West­
ern Pennsylvania, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
WANTED—Faculty Wife needs babysit­
ter Wednesday, Thursday or Friday after­
noon. Within a block of campus. Contact 
Mn. R. Fold, 6228 Beeler Street. Phone 
<21-2815.
STEIN G BA88, TENOB SAX FOB SALE. 
Reasonable. Call Ed Ketterer, BTP 682- 
87(8.
BABY SITTER WANTED—Girl on Tues­
days for any two or three hours. Thurs­
days» girl to work with children. ?:30- 
1:90. Adjacent to Tech campus. Phone Mt-ilH.
MALE HELP WANTED—Stock clerk. 
Photographic Supplies. Part-time. Apply 
1411 6th Ave.
WANTED—Faculty wife needs babysit­
ter Wednesday afternoons, 12:00-4:00. 
Phone 521-7685. Adjacent to Tech campus.
tSLSALE—Professor’. 1968 Hillman 
Sedan in A-l condition mechanical- 
two new snow treads. Make offer.
Now! TheHONDA
Students interested in working on 
any of the committees should 
contact these people.
Executive Council also chose 
Kate Stader as its secretary and 
Brenda Goldstein as treasurer of 
Student Government.
The Council is still accepting
Just in time for back-to-campus. Your Honda dealer is having his Fall Sales 
Spectacular. You’ll find the kind of low down payments you’ve always looked 
for. The terms are so easy you’ll barely notice them. Drop by your Honda 
dealer’s today. Learn why some people have all the fun.
Free Brochure: Write American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,Department C-7, Box 50, Gardena, California ©1966 AHM
Elections Cancelled{ TYPEWRITER
Sales Rentals Repairs
CAMERA EXCHANGE. INC.
3711 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
683-2181| Oakland’s Only Camera Store
liniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiliiliiliiliiiniiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiHiiiiuinnninuii.nini
dtb74
2987 Babcock Blvd. at McKnight Rd. • 15237
(Continued from Page 1)
pendent men’s dorm upperclass, 
one seat; independent commuter 
freshmen, three seats; and inde­
pendent commuter upperclass, 
four seats..
Any undergraduate is eligi­
ble for nomination regardless 
of academic standing.
Chairman of the Senate Rules 
Committee is Ray Guydosh, who 
was elected to his position at the 
first Senate meeting on Tuesday, 
September 20. Other internal 
committee chairmen nominated 
by Vice-President Lloyd Patross 
and unanimously approved by 
the delegates at the meeting are: 
Sharon Rambo, chairman of the 
Student Union Committee; Bill 
Benthall, chairman of the Acti­
vities Committee; Rich Steffens, 
chairman of the Finance Com­
mittee; and Ron Haan, chairman 
of General Campus Committee. 
Similarly Judy G r u m e t was 
named as secretary of the sen­
ate and Ray Guydosh as parlia­
mentarian.
Committee Heads
Chairmen of three external com­
mittees, including the widely- 
publicized Food Service Commit­
tee, were chosen by the Execu­
tive Council of Student Govern, 
ment at its first meeting.
Ron Haan was named to head 
the Food Service Committee. Dick 
Londergan will chair the Aca­
demic Advisory Committee, and 
Tom Moore the Tech Committee.
Presenting the
JAufc mx
VALETRAY
The next regular Student Sen- 
ate meeting is next Tuesday, Oc­
tober 4, at 4:30 in the Wherrett 
Room. Senate meetings and Exe­
cutive Council meetings are both 
open to the public.
¡2 The exhilarating
elegance of Jade East w
in a handsome new setting.
2 Man’s Dresser Valet together with 4 oz.
a bottles of Jade East Cologne and Jade East
After Shave. $9.00 complete.
Key ring and Buddha Cuff Link/Tie Tac Set not included. 
Swank sole distributor. Available at fine stores everywhere.
letters of application for Stu­
dent Court. Joe Orens, Presi­
dent of the Student Body, said 
they “just didn’t receive enough 
applications to make any kind 
of choice” for court justices.
There were two applicants for 
Attorney General, two for com­
muter justice, two for sorority 
justice, one for men’s dorm jus­
tice, and none for fraternity jus­
tice or women’s dorm justice. All 
positions on the court are official­
ly open now, but they should be 
filled at the next Executive Coun­
cil meeting Wednesday, October 
5 at 4:30 pm in room 33, Skibo. 
Applications can be filed at the 
Skibo information desk before 
October 5.
Tech Insurance
Not enough students have tak­
en advantage of Carnegie Tech’s 
student health and accident in­
surance policy this year, accord­
ing to George K. Brown, Dean of 
Student Affairs.
The insurance program now of­
fers increased coverage of var­
ious types—Information and ap­
plication forms are still avail­
able from Mrs. Franz at the cash­
ier’s office in Warner Hall.
miiiiiitiiMiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiB

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 28, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
Foreign Viewpoint
Hallelujah!
by Shashi Parekh
This is the first of a series of articles presenting the foreign 
student's perspective on topics of current interest . . . Mr. Parelcli 
is a first year graduate student in chemical engineering.
If poverty is a crime, then the whole human race is a criminal 
against the ideals and objectives of human progress—the achieve­
ment of the walfare state, an outcome of the unplanned economic 
and technological progress of the whole of mankind. If poverty is 
the inability to satisfy minimum human needs, then more than half 
of the world’s population is poor. After such tremendous technical 
and economical progress of the human race, it is an irony to find 
the majority of its members struggling to keep their existence, in 
no way in any better condition than non-human organisms. All the 
intellectual development and social fabrication do not succeed in 
convincing non-poor members of their responsibilities in the war 
against poverty.
Poverty is widely spread in most parts of Asia, Africa, and 
Latin America, where it is far worse than that existing in Europe 
and the U.S.A. One basic reason for such extreme poverty in these 
countries is the maldistribution of the economic means among the 
members of society. The other subordinate causes are (1) lack of 
incentive, (2) unemployment, (3) lack of training and basic edu­
cation, (4) low I.Q., (5) discrimination; and so on. The principles 
of communism can succeed in those countries to the effective solu­
tion of the problem of the maldistribution of means through restrict- 
tions on the individual’s freedom and action.
But a mission is marching on the soil of India with the same 
intention:' to experiment with human motives for the solution 
of poverty. Vinoba Bhave, a disciple of Mahatma Gandhi, and 
the leader of the mission, is an originator of that new move­
ment called “Bhoodan” (Land-gift) and “Sarvodaya” (the rise 
of all together). The aim of the mission is to convince each and 
every member of society of his responsibility for the problem 
and poverty and to demand his voluntary contribution to its 
solution.
Real India lies in the villages, as more than 80 per cent of the 
population lives in the four million villages of India. So the mis­
sion prefers to travel through villages and towns. The simplicity 
of the mission reflects the living conditions of Indian peasants. Mem­
bers of the mission believe that they have no right to enjoy any 
facility which is not available to most of their countrymen. They 
travel by foot, without using any vehicles, except a bullock-cart to 
carry luggage.
Vinoba speaks to the villagers in the regional language which 
these plain folks know. So, by the way, he learned more than 40 
languages. Thus his sole devotion, simplicity, and friendly attitude 
affect the people.
The mission starts traveling in the early morning. Accord­
ing to program, a group—rmeeting is called to the village through 
which they are passing. Vinoba speaks to the people, describes 
the poor condition of their fellow men, and tells them, “There is 
a limit to the suffering and starvation; the .time will come when 
hungry and exploited people will revolt and will snatch away 
all the properties of the landlords and other rich people by force.
To prevent that situation of horror and terrorism, I humbly re­
quest you to support our mission by your Voluntary contribution 
of your excess land, money, and services. Consider me as one of 
your family members and give me my part of the wealth.”
This simple language pierces through the hearts of the folk. 
Millions of acres of land are donated and distributed among the land­
less peasants. A new idea is introduced, “the village-gift,” in which 
people of the small villages decide to give up the land of whole vil­
lages to the mission. The mission arranges the distribution of the 
land among the villagers and then the whole population of the vil­
lage lives cooperatively, distributing the income of the village accord­
ing to the needs of families.
By the way, the mission arouses feelings of ownership in the poor 
people and encourages them to work. Moreover, the mission gives 
them the motto “Let God take care of the end, our duty is to work!” 
The motto “Hail humanity” is a symbol of the mission. Thus Sarvo- 
daya and Bhoodan bring reality to the people by offering them the 
means of basic needs, rather than the hollow promises of politicians. 
Vinoba is regarded as a “saint, a symbol of hope and holiness.” The 
rural people have enormous trust in him, and consider him a mem­
ber of their own community. Many volunteer youths have devoted 
their lives to the mission. Any individual can donate whatever aim 
is to make each and every village of India an independent unit in 
the self-sufficiency of basic needs of all its members. And if it is 
possible, there will not be any better definition of the welfare state 
in India.
But it requires much cooperation and understanding among 
the members of the society, which demands the sacrifice and 
services of many other saints, holy men, like Vinoba.
But if India collapses in her struggle against the property, it will 
not be the misfortune of the Indian people, but of the whole world, as 
it will be a defeat of the principles of democracy.
The solution of poverty lies in man’s activities of self-sacrifice, 
in his capacity for extending love far and wide, across all the bar­
riers of caste and color, and in his realization of mankind with the 
fulfillment of all the basic needs of each and every member of this 
great society.
Hear the East differs from the West. The eastern countries re­
quire better distribution of wealth, before they start competition in 
technical and industrial progress. Unless the foundation of society 
is strong enough, it will not withstand the load of large-scale indus­
try. The fair distribution of economic means offers real competition 
among the members of the democratic society, which can accelerate 
the speed of progress; otherwise, with the maldistribution of wealth, 
technology only helps to widen the gap between the poor and rich, 
which makes for doom.
The centuries are of less worth for the real development of the 
nation than the so-called imitative industrial progress which can col­
lapse the structure of society.
No doubt the march of the Bhoodan will take years to real-
WRCT Schedule
Wednesday, September 28th
7:30 pm—Evening Concert—to be announced.
10:30 pm—Chuck’s Bag—jazz with our sexiest announcer.
12:30 am—Sign off.
Thursday, September 29th
8;00 pm—Ceilidh Column—with Howard Glasser. This week “The 
Ballad of John Axon” by Ewan MacColl and Peggy See- 
ger. Recorded from the B.B.C.
9:00 pm—Counterpoint ’66—B.W.C. hosts Hal Cessna, news director 
of KDKA radio, with other guests from KQV and WTAE. 
The topic—“The Function of Radio.”
10:00 pm—WRCT Jazz.
12:30 am—Turn off.
Friday, September 30th
7:30 pm—Cineposium—Akrim Madoni, Peter Weinberg,and student 
panelists discus.s Orson Welles, with selections from 
Welles’ War of the Worlds broadcast.
8:30 pm—Evening Concert — featuring Brahms Symphony No. 4, 
Richard Strauss—Tod und Verklaerung.
12:30 am—Sign off.
Saturday, October 1st
1:00 am—Football—C.I.T. meets Oberlin.
Sunday, October 2nd
12:00 noon—Afternoon Concert—Pre baroque music.
2:00 pm—WRCT Recital Hall—Ken Lutz with the Music Depart­
ment’s first offering of the year, sonatas by Virgil Thomp­
son and Caesar Franck played by Sidney Harth, violin, 
and Harry Franklin, piano.
3:00 pm—WRCT Sunday Repertoire Theatre—presenting the orig­
inal Broadway cast in “Waiting for Godot,” with Bert Lahr, 
Kurt Kassner, E. G. Martial.
5:00 pm—Sunday Rock Request—the best in cacophony!
???? am—Signature of Goodby.
Monday, October 3rd
7:00 pm—Community Spotlight—cultural events in and around the 
campus.
7:30 pm—Evening Concert—Ballet music of Stravinsky and Poulenc.
10:00 pm—Studio J—Jeff Allen and his mistress play jazz.
12:30 am—Fade out.
Tuesday, October 4th
7:30 pm—The Relaxative—this week, WRCT presents Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College, or Caught in the Act.
8:00 pm—The Dave Green Show—“George’s guest tonight are Dave 
Green and Max-the-other-guitar.
8:30 pm—Poet’s Lexicon—Allen Ginsburgh reads Allen Ginsburgh.
9:00 pm—Showtime—On the Town.
10:00 pm—WRCT Jazz.
12:30 am—Ahhhhhhh!
ize its dream, but once the problem of the distribution of wealth 
is cured ,the rest of the problems of poverty will not take long 
to solve.
“Hallelujah! God, you are merciful, that you have created such 
holy, unselfish people,” murmurs the poor Indian peasant who re­
ceives a land-gift from the mission, and he proceeds a step further 
in the direction of the welfare state.
ExPceCsvh bN ¡TabhrNC
DIAMOND RINGS
D,ANA.............PRICE $275
A diamond solataire engagement ring, etherial in design, 
named for a Greek Goddess. In 18 kt. White Geld, die 
struck mounting. World's finest diamonds to fit your 
budget.
Terms arranged
JOHN \I.R0UrWV SON <¦
Pittsburgh—429 Wood St. 
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
Senate Delegates 
From Spring ’66 
Elections Listed
Fraternities—Bill Benthall, Bill 
Fallon, Ray Guydosh, Earl Lazar­
us, Dennis McEvoy, Bob Schul- 
man, Rich Stafford, and Mike 
Vargo.
Sororities—Linda Green, Sue 
Irwin, and Heather Shoub.
Independent men’s dorm resi­
dents—Ron Haan, Doug Kemerer, 
and Al Witchner.
Independent women’s dorm res* 
idents—Sally Greenberg, Sharon 
Rambo, and Cindy Stauffer.
Independent commuters—John 
Barnes, Bill Dillon, Judy Grumet, 
and Mark Kline.
Members of Executive Council 
of Student Government are Joe 
Orens (President of the Student 
Body), Dennis Rosenfeld (Presi­
dent of Men’s Dorm Council), 
Marilyn Blitz (President of the 
Association of Women Students), 
Bob Cooper (President of Coun­
cil of Fraternity Presidents), 
Mary Ellen Pfeister (President 
of Panhellenic Council), Bob Al­
bertson (commuter representa­
tive), and the President of the 
Varsity “C” Club (representing 
athletic activities).
LEWIS
Sales-Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211 
115 OAKLAND AYE
SwinglineAnnooucemtw
[1] Divide 30 by y2 
and add 10. 
What is the 
?
[2] You have a TOT
Stapler that3^=0staples eight *-310-page reports /
or tacks 31 memos H
to a 1
bulletin board.
How old is the
owner of
this TOT Stapler?
This is theSwingline
Tot Stapler
(including 1000 staples) 
Larger size CUB Desk
Stapler only $1.49
No bigger than a pack of gum-but pack« 
the punch of a big deal! Refills available 
everywhere. Unconditionally guaranteed. 
Made in U.S.A. Get it at any stationery, 
variety, book store!
INC.
Long Island City, N.Y. 11101
¡UMO UB3 noX U13JI looqas
)s3<pu*q aq* «,»! 'pouad » pu» *ooq 
-»lou » o» ¡A«/* aq» Xq ‘ipi 1« »»pi
peq » }OU si qaiqM-,/ • • XOX •
®A»q nox„ JnoA Z '(SC *! P»PP« 01 I papjAjp QC) PC j SM3MSMV

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, September 28, 1966
Fulbrights Available
For Foreign Studies
Applications for U. S. Government grants for foreign 
graduate study in 1967-68, as provided for under the Ful- 
bright-HayS Aet, are due shortly. Carnegie Tech students 
may obtain applications and complete information from Dr. 
R. E. Parshall in BH 260.
This year marks the 20th an­
niversary of the signing of the 
original legislation which created 
this exchange program. Since 
1946, approximately 15,000 grants 
have been awarded to American 
graduate students for study in 
countries throughout the world.
HE conducts competitions for 
U.S. Government scholarships, for 
students below the doctoral level, 
provided by the Fulbright-Hays 
Act, as part of the educational 
and cultural exchange program 
of the Department of State. This 
program, which is intended to in­
crease mutual understanding be­
tween the people of the United 
States and other countries, pro­
vides more than 850 grants for 
study in 54 countries.
Candidates who wish to ap­
ply for an award must be U.S. 
citizens at the time of applica­
tion, have a bachelor’s degree 
or its equivalent by the begin­
ning date of the grant and, in 
most cases, be proficient in the 
language of the host country. 
Selections will be made on the 
basis of academic and/or pro­
fessional record, the feasibility 
of the applicant’s proposed study 
plan and personal qualifica­
tions. Preference is given to 
candidates who have not had 
prior opportunity for extended 
study or residence abroad and 
who are under the age of 35.
Fine Arts Grant
Creative and performing ar­
tists are not required to have a 
bachelor’s degree but they must 
have four years of professional 
study or equivalent experience. 
Applicants in social work must 
have at least two years of pro­
fessional experience after the 
Master of Social Work degree. 
Applicants in the field of medi­
cine must have an M.D. at the 
time of application.
Two types of grants are avail­
able through HE U. S. Govern 
ment Full Grants and U.S. Gov­
ernment Travel Grants.
A full award provides a grantee 
with tuition, maintenance, round- 
trip transportation, health and 
accident insurance and an inci­
dental allowance. In Australia, 
Ceylon, India, Japan, Nepel, Nor­
way, Poland, Portugal, the Re­
public of China, and Turkey, a 
maintenance allowance will be 
provided for one or more accom­
panying dependents.
Travel Grants
A limited number of travel 
grants is available to supplement 
maintenance and tuition scholar­
ships granted to American stu­
dents by universities, private don­
ors and foreign governments.
Because of the growing inter­
est in inter-American studies, 
there are grants available to a 
number of countries in the Latin 
American Area in various fields. 
All applicants for these grants 
must be proficient in the spoken
language of the country for which 
they apply and should have knowl­
edge of the American Area, spe­
cifically in the country or coun­
tries for which they are applying.
There are also opportunities 
for teaching assistantships in In­
dia and Italy for students inter­
ested in teaching English as for­
eign language; teaching fellow­
ships at universities in Italy for 
the teaching of the English lan­
guage and English or American 
literature; teaching fellowships 
at universities in Sweden for the 
teaching of American literature 
and/or civilization; and a teach­
ing fellowship in the Philippines 
for the teaching of linguistics or 
English as a second language.
WRCT Extends 
To Mudge, 
Fraternities
Two new remote transmitters 
for WRCT, which will enable lis­
teners in Mudge Graduate House 
and the fraternity area to pick 
up the campus radio station, are 
now being built by the WRCT en­
gineering staff.
The “Fratostat,” a push-pull 
type transmitter, will be installed 
in the Delta Tau Delta house at 
the beginning of October. The 
Delt house was chosen because 
it is approximately in the center 
of the fraternity area.
A special solid-state device for 
Mudge, the “Mudgelator,” is un­
der construction at WRCT’s Balti­
more office and should be ready 
within a month.
Technician Dave Rodgers has 
some suggestions for WRCT lis­
teners who have trouble receiv­
ing the station in the men’s 
dorms. Rodgers says, “If you 
have a transistor, place it near 
something which is plugged into 
a power line. It may be neces­
sary to orient the radio. On an 
inexpensive tube-type radio, tun­
ing is critical. If you continue 
to have trouble getting the sta­
tion, write to WRCT at Box 370, 
Campus Mail.”
P&.G Honors 
Two Freshmen 
For Scholarships
Proctor and Gamble Schol- 
irship holders attending Car­
negie Institute of Technol­
ogy were honored with a din­
ner last Thursday at 6:00 
pm at the LeMont Restaur­
ant. The dinner was given by 
Mr. D. M. Watt, director of 
the Proctor and Gamb'e 
Scholarship Program for 
Proctor and Gamble scholars 
at Carnegie Tech.
Freshman scholarship winners 
this year were John Fetchko and 
Linda Erenrich. Other Proctor and 
Gamble scholarship holders at­
tending the dinner were Joseph 
Orens, Joseph Weber and Frank­
lin Thieroff.
Representing Carnegie Tech at 
the dinner were John McCaffery, 
Management Information Center; 
George K. Brown, Dean of Stu­
dent Affairs, Professor Herbert 
Toor, head of the Department of 
Chemical Engineering and Richard 
Brandenberg, Assistant Dean, 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad­
ministration.
Proctor and Gamble scholar« 
ships are awarded by Carnegie 
Tech on the basis of the stu­
dents’ ability and promise. The 
four-year undergraduate scholar­
ships include full tuition plus 
an allowance for books, fees 
and supplies.
Organ Recital
Russell G. Wichmann, profes­
sor of music and chairman of the 
music department at Chatham 
College, will present an organ re­
cital on Wednesday, September 
28.
The 8:30 pm recital will be in 
the College Chapel and will be 
open to the public.
Mr. Wichmann’s program will 
include works by Bach, Handel, 
Franck, Honegger, Bingham and 
Whitlock.
Organist and director of music 
at the Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church since 1936, Mr. Wichmann 
also was music director of the 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh 
from 1952 to 1966.
FALL FURNITURE SALE
Bona fide discounts to 40% Off at nearby manufacturer’s 
showrooms: Lane, Broyhill, Bassett, Thomasville, Herman 
Miller, Paul McCobb, etc. Details supplied upon request.
Instant Room Beauty thru RUGS
Our rug selection has been described as 
"FANTASTIC!" Your inspection is invited.
1000 9x12 RUGS - S15 to SS9
also 6x9s, 12x15s, 12x18s, etc.
5432 WALNUT STREET
(Next To Skedysid* Po* Office)
DIAL 621-1025CHASE’S
Opea 10 AM te f PM Daily
Pete Seeger
Photo Exhibit
The first in a series of four one- 
man exhibitions by Pittsburgh 
artists will open September 25, 
in Carnegie Institute Museum’s 
Gallery K. It will feature color 
photography by Harold Corsini, 
who has received well over one 
thousand awards in the advertis­
ing and photographic field.
Corsini, a former war corres • 
pondent and reporter on the pe- 
trolevm industry, came to Pitts­
burgh in 1951 to assist Roy Stry­
ker, the director of the Pittsburgh 
Photographic Library, and has 
lived here since.
His exhibit will extend through 
October 30. Gallery hours are 
10 am to 5 pm weekly and 2 to
5 pm Sundays.
— >4/
CLOTHING
CRICKETEER 
COLLEGE HALL 
STANLEY BLACKER 
SUSSEX SUITS 
CORBIN TROUSERS 
ASHER SLACKS 
H-l-S SLACKS 
DUNCAN REED TOPCOATS 
BERNHARD ALTMANN
] LFURNISHINGS
GANT SHIRTMAKERS 
REIS OF NEW HAVEN 
MARUM
MUNSINGWEAR 
CANTERBURY 
BYFORD SWEATERS 
ALAN PAINE
HATS
KEENS/BRITISH 
CHRISTY OF LONDON
SHOES
SPORTSWEAR
IZOD OF LONDON 
LAKELAND JACKETS
INVERTEREOF-ENGLAND
WOOLRICH
MIGHTY MAC
WEATHER PROOFS E
FREEMAN
GROOMING AIDS
BRITISH STERLING 
CANOE
ENGLISH LEATHER 
ACQUA Dl SELVA 
4711
GLENEAGLES 
RAIN FAIR
An Added Coach House Service 
FREE Monogramming on 
All Dress Shirts
(Enarlt ÎSjnusr
^TtaJitiona.1 -fljajaatel foot Men
Marvin M. Josephs, Prsp.
5023 FORBES AVC. • Phene 521-7600
OPEN TUESDAY AND THURSDAY EVENINGS TILL 9 
IN ADDITION TO YOUR COACH HOUSE CHARGE . 
MELLON OR PNB HONORED
D
lì
For '67...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer 
ROUTE 8. ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 28, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 9
0g The Whole University Area is Talking About The $
BUSINESS SAMPLER
Over $55.00 Worth of Free Services, Merchandise and Entertainment
A limited number of samplers will be sold to people in 
the University area. If you call one of our courteous oper­
ators, she will arrange for delivery of your Business 
Sampler or call 884-9173.
Supply Is Limited
ORDER YOURS TODAY, PHONE
884-9173
18 businessmen are cooperating to bring you over $55.00 
worth of free services, merchandise and entertainment for 
only $5.95. If you buy the Business Sample, you will receive 
all these services and merchandise listed in this ad. There's 
nothing else to pay or buy at any time. Call now 884-9173.
NOTHING MORE TO BUY „.CALL TODAY!
THE MAJORITY OF CERTIFICATES GOOD FOR 6 MONTHS
$5.95 Covers the Cost of Printing, Organizing and delivering the Business Sampler Right to Your Door
$7 Worth of 
Dry Cleaning & Pressing
WEST PENN CLEANERS
ONE HOT DOG (Choice of Dressings) 
AN ORDER OF FRENCH FRIES 
and CHOICE OF BEVERAGE
THE PUP TENT
One Pal Razor with Blades 
or One Cigarette Lighter
BOB’S DISCOUNT CENTER
One 8x10 
Silvertone Portrait
CASTLE-STUDIO ¦ Photographers
¦/t Doz. ASSORTED CUP CAKES 
•/* Doz. DANISH ORIENTAL ROLLS 
0HE LOAF OF HOMEMADE BREAD
KUNST BAKERY
2 Front Wheels Balanced
ON YOUR AUTO
One Flat Tire Repair
PLAZA RUBBER CORP.
FOUR 
FREE ADMISSIONS
SILVER LAKE DRIVE-IN
TEN
GAMES OF BOWLING
STRAND BOWLING LANES
Any Greeting Cards 
to $1.00 ValueHAHN’S
One ($1 ) Gift Certificate
LEONARD’S MEN’S SHOP
Two Cuts of Pizza 
and A CokeVILLAGE PIZZA SHOPS
• BONUS OFFER •$3.00 Discount On 
Any Tuxedo RentalSAM ROSS TUXEDO’S
Otl4
Cost
This Business Sampler Discount Coupon is 
worth 20< when the Business Sampler is 
delivered to your home. This Coupon will 
be accepted as cash for reading your 
newspaper.
ONE COUPON ACCEPTED PER FAMILY
1 Baked Lasagna Dinner 
or One Pizza
GINO & PETES PIZZERIA
One Roll of Film 
One Roll of Black & White 
Film Developed & Printed
CAMERA EXCHANGE, Inc.
One Broasted Chicken 
Snack (incl. French Fries)
MR. CHICKEN
One Minor 
Watch Repair
S. GREEN JEWELERS
One Chassis Lubrication 
One Battery Charge 
One Brake Adjustment
BORON OIL CO.
2 Hours of Billiards 
for 2 People
HOUSE OF LORDS BILLIARDS
Clip and Save This 
Valuable Coupon
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, September 28, 1966
Saturday, September 24, opened the 1966 football season at Carnegie Tech; and for 
all Tech fans it was a great opening as the Tartans defeated visiting Wooster 18-6.
Tech received the opening kickoff on their own two yard line, then began the see­
saw play which lasted most of the first quarter as neither team could make a first down. 
Finally, late in the quarter Tech drove from their own 28 and in ten plays, ending with a 
twenty-eight yard pass to Rich Bell on fourth and ten, pushed for the first score of the 
game.
Managers
Tech’s lead was short-lived, 
however, as Art Wilson of Woos­
ter took the kickoff on the ten 
yard line and returned it 90 
yards for a touchdown and prob­
ably the most spectacular play 
of the game. Both teams missed 
the extra point and the score was 
tied, 6-6, after one quarter.
Tech’s second score of the 
game came in the middle of the 
second quarter as the Tartans re­
covered a fumble on the Wooster 
ten yard line and Tom Hubka 
threw his second TD pass of the 
day, this time to John Barnes. 
The extra point was again missed 
and the score at half time was 
Tech 12, Wooser 6.
Wooster got their first first down 
of the game after about five min­
utes of the second half in a drive 
from their own 11 to the Tech 
47, only to be forced to punt after 
finally reaching enemy territory. 
Then, in the fourth quarter Tech 
took the ball on their own 20 and 
drove 80 yards using 17 plays 
and five first downs. With 4:13 
left to play Larry Getto drove 
across the Wooster one for Tech’s 
third TD of the day.
Wooster made one more threat 
as they drove across their own 
30 to the Tech 14, a drive high­
light by a 41 yard pass play from 
quarterback Tom Boardman to 
Jim Jaridn. Again Wooster falter­
ed and failed to complete four 
straight passes from the Tech 14. 
Carnegie took over on downs and 
ran out the clock with ground 
play, including 13 and 19 yard 
gains by Ken Batorski which put 
the Tartans back in Wooster ter­
ritory.
Tech’s offense moved the ball 
well as Tom Hubka completed 17 
out of 29 passes for 141 yards and 
Larry Getto carried 26 times for 
93 yards, but it was the defense 
which proved to be the real 
strong point as Wooster was held 
to only five first downs and 125 
yards gamed. The best looking 
freshman of the game was An­
thony Bugel who received three 
passes, including a 12 yard pass
STATISTICS
TechWooster
Yard« Rushing154«4
ards Passed141<1
Total Yards295125
Yards PenalizedCO65
Passes17/294/14
First Downs155
SCORE BY QUARTER:
Tech C« 0« — 18
Wooster 6• •• — «
Cross-Country 
Starts Saturday
The Carnegie Tartans open the 
1966 cross country season against 
Jeannette on Saturday, October 
1 at 11 am at the Schenley Park 
course. The team has been pro­
gressing well in practice and 
Coach Olsen hopes for strong per­
formances from all the veterans 
as well as several of th^ new­
comers. Bemie Flynn, a much 
improved sophomore, is expected 
to lead the Tartan runners.
on Tech’s first scoring drive and 
a 13 yard pass en route to the 
second TD.
Tech’s next game is Saturday, 
October 1, as the Tartans are 
host to oberlin, game time is 1:30
All students interested in be­
ing managers for any 
Tech intercollegiate team are 
requested to see Mr.
Director of Athletics, at room 
102 in the Gymnasium.
Fhh Daec Lsih
by LARRY SIKON
Tartan Sports Editor
It is, of course, impossible for me to have anything but praise 
for our football team. Coach Joe Gasparella’s gridders played what 
I consider to be an almost flawless game against Wooster last Satur­
day. The offense was sharp, and the defense made the veteran Woos­
ter offense look like it would have had trouble beating a junior high 
school team.
The spark of the offense was once again quarterback Tom Hubka, 
but, unlike past years, he had a squad of great running backs, ends, 
and blockers to help make the team click. Hubka was, to say the least, 
sharp. He completed 17 out of 29 passes, two of which brought us 
touchdowns, and picked 141 yards through the air. No less impres­
sive, however, was sophomore fullback Larry Getto. Getto carried 
the ball 26 times and picked up 98 yards and a touchdown for an 
average of almost four yards per carry. Dick Bell once again proved 
to be Hubka’s favorite receiver and made what may have been the 
most fantastic catch of the day when he pulled in a Hubka pass at 
his toes in the end zone for the first Tartan touchdown. Also looking 
great on the receiving end were John Barnes, who caught Hubka’s 
second TD pass and freshman stand-out Tony Bugel. In addition to 
Getto’s fine running, the Tartan ground attack was augmented by 
the fine running of Ken Batorski, Chuck Zak, and Dave Thomas.
Then there’s the defense. It was apparently Coach Gasparella’s 
semi - two - platoon system that enabled the defense to be strong 
through-out the entire game.
Standing out on defense was sophomore center Ron Horn. Horn 
seemed to have the Wooster offense pegged from the very start and 
was in on innumerable tackles. Also outstanding was Larry Getto, who 
was one of the few Tartains that went both ways. Getto played a mag­
nificent game from his linebacker position and helped make move­
ment for Wooster nearly impossible. The Tartan defense was so ef- 
fective that the Fighting Scots were unable to make a first down in 
the first half and made only a meager five in the second.
Only one thing could be criticized, and this was the kicking. It 
would almost seem that Coach Gasparella was experimenting with 
his kickers, considering that he used three different players to do 
his place-kicking. The fact that we did not make any of our extra points 
did not really matter in this game, but it could in the future. I am 
told, however, that the man that is supposed to do the kicking, fresh­
man Mike Davis, is out with a broken ankle but is expected to be 
back in a couple of weeks.
Finally, I was amazed by the attitude of the crowd. There was 
very little cheering during the game, even though we never trailed, 
and, after the game, there was a prevalent attitude of “well, we won 
our game for this year.” This, to say the least, disturbs me. This is 
the best Tartan team we’ve seen in many a year and I, for one, would 
not be the least surprised if they don’t lose a game this season. I 
encourage all people who have even the slightest interest in Tartan 
Sports to come out and back the best Tech football team of the decade.
Hubka, Getto Star As 
Tartans Down Scots 18-6
by Ron Finnin
TECHROLLS IN SEASON OPENER
| Between Classes or at Study Break *
-SCOTTY'S- I
OPEN TO SEM E YOU * 
24 HOURS A DAY *
*
3918 FORBES AVENUE 5
. . . and ... *
{ ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE }
