DON’T FORGET 
THE BIG 
EON FIRE. TUESDAY
LAST CHANCE 
TO BUY 
JUNIOR FROM TICKETS
VOL. XVIII NO. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1924
BOK PEACE PLAN IS SUBMITTED 
FOR STUDENT REFERENDUM TO 
.TAKE VOTES AT REGISTRATION
BAND MEMBERS WANTED
AT BONFIRE NEXT WEEKWILL HOLD BIG
DORMITORY ROOM RENT
MUST BE PAID TODAY
The band will play in uniform at ! 3 f 0 £the bonfire preceding the Pitt game 
j on^the evening o£ February 6th, and 
| at the following important games: \ 
Grove City, February S, Penn State, 
February 16, and Wash-Jeff. February j 
IS.
Ballots Will be Distributed 
and Collected When Stu­
dents Register-Opinion of 
All Scholars Desired
MÀNY SCHOOLS VOTE
On February 5th and 6th, the two 
registration days, Carnegie 'students 
shall have the opportunity of voting 
on the question of sjaopting the win­
ning plan selected by the jury of the 
American Peace Award offered by Ed­
ward W. Bok for “the best practicable 
plan by which the United States may 
co-operate with other nations to 
achieve and preserve the peace of the 
world.”
The Policy Committee is submit­
ting this plan to a large number of 
universities and colleges because the 
committee wants a referendum from 
the college students of the United 
States.
The faculty have already received 
ballots. The Y. W. C. A. and the Y. 
M. C. A. are to have charge of giving 
out and collecting the student ballots. 
The girls are requested to use the bal­
lots provided by the Y. W. C. A. The 
"men will use the ballots provided by 
. the- committee. The ballots will be
STUDENTS SHOULD TURN IN
REPORT OF XMAS EARNINGS
The Employment Bureau has re­
quested that all students turn in re­
ports of their Xmas earnings. This 
should be done as 4 soon as possible 
so that the Employment office may 
bring their records up to date. Please 
co-operate with the Bureau so they 
may continue to offer efficient serv­
ice.
Rent for all the men’s dormitory 
rooms for tho socond semester is due 
| today. No bills \vjll bo sent and stu­
dents are urged to make remittances 
iy mail as soon as possible.
There are a few rooms available in
All band members in uniform are I T. „ „ . , Jtho dormitories at the present timo.
requested to meet at the usual place 1 J&eller iSleCtea JrreSluent Information concerning these rooms
I can bo secured from Miss Bird in 
Dean Tarbell’s ollice.
: RIVALS CLASH ;:™
at 6:30 February 5 to take part in the | 
bonfire celebration.
ARTS BALL REVIVES 
OLD CHINESE FETE
‘Feast of the Lanterns” 
Annual Oriental Event
is,
PROMINENT MEN 
TO SPEAK HERE
of Cites to Assume Charge 
of Bonfire and Rally to be 
Held Before Pitt Game
WATCH FOR THE DOPE
Lecture Series of Coming 
Month Attracts Much 
Local Interest
Are you aware of the fact that there 
is.going to be a big bonfire before the 
clash with our ancient rivals from up 
on the hill? On February fifth at six 
! The Arts Ball this year will be a j forty-five o’clock, before the Carnegie- 
revival of an old Chinese fete, "The Pitt prelim, the two thousand day stu- 
Feast- of the Lanterns.” Those who dents of Carnegie, . with all their 
are not eligible to attend the ball will j friends, and as many night students 
perhaps be interested in a little of the as are willing to, cut classes, will
That the series of public lectures on 
chemical engineering announced for 
February and March will be one of 
the most popular series ever arranged 
by the school is indicated in the en­
thusiastic response already manifest­
ed among local industries. Much of 
the commendation coming to the In­
stitute officials has been in reference 
... . . - , i to. the identity of the five lecturers
distributed. at the entrance^ Langley | hn„0unced on tlie program.
perhaps
background of the fete.
•j1 ‘‘The Feast of the Lanterns” is an 
j adaption of “Shang Yuan Chieh,” 
which is an annual event occurring on 
or about the fifteenth day of the first 
month. This is the great evening of 
the year, coming at the appearance of cancy made by the resignation of Wib 
the first full moon. It is a holiday j Cunningham. This' responsible posi-
Lab and the students will be expected 
to fill out the ballots' and deposit them 
in the box placed near the exit. 
There .are three reasons why every
Each of the speakers has 'been en­
gaged by the Chemical Equipment 
Association under whose joint aus­
pices the series is to be given, andstudent should express his opinion on each js consldere(1 an expert in his
this plan:
1. It is .the duty of every American 
citizen to express his opinion on a 
plan which arf attempt to solve the 
problem of relieving distress in the 
world.
2. A student need not be of voting 
age in order to vote on this plan.
3. It will- cost the student nothing.
(Continued on Page Four.)
REMEMBER “LOVE’S WALTZ”?
Bok Plan Approved 
By Professor Wurts
Says That Plan is Worthy of 
Careful Consideration
chosen work- Dr. H. C. Parmalee, 
who will'discuss “The Relation of 
Chemical Equipment to the Pittsburgh 
Industries,” on Friday evening“9 Feb­
ruary 8, is editor of Chemical and 
Metallurgical Engineering. Prior to 
his editorial work, Dr. Parmalee was 
closely identified with the mining and 
metallurgical, industry of the west, 
¦and for a year, 1916 to’ 1917, was pres­
ident of the Colorado School of Mines.
Professor W. L. Badger, who will 
lecture on “Evaporation,” Thursday 
evening, February 14, has been a mem­
ber of the faculty at the University 
of Michigan since 1912. He has had 
extensive experience, also, in the 
chemical engineering industry.
Albert E. Marshall of Baltimore, 
Mci., who will speak on "Mechanical
The Tartan deemed it advisable be­
fore asking the students to vote on 
the Bok Peace Plan that someone who 
had studied the . plan give his opinion 
of it and the student referendum. 
Upon the advice of members of the 
faculty anc] administration Professor 
Wurts of Electrical Research Depart­
ment was approached.
Professor Wurts is a personal friend 
of Mr. Bole. I-Ie has given much 
thought to the «Plan and is greatly in­
terested in the national referendum. 
1-Ie had considered calling a mass 
meeting in Carnegie Music Hall to dis­
cuss the Plan before the vote would 
be taken.. The short time remaining 
before registration day caused him 
to discard the idea. •
Professor Wurtstf statement, fol­
lows:
In the matter of. the American 
Peace Award, is it not up to the Amer­
ican people to meet Mr. Bok far 
enough to Ayrite “yes” or “no” on his 
referendum ballot? It is. And is not 
the rising generation the one most in­
terested in averting “the next war' 
and making the world a decent place 
to live in? It is.
Ballots are already here and circu­
lars of information, in Dean Tarbell’s 
office, can be had for the asking. It 
(Continued on Page Three.):
DO YOU LIKE “WEDDING BELLS”?
Schedule for Summer 
School Almost Completed
The schedules of subjects to be 
given during the summer session *in 
the Collège of Fine- Arts, College of 
Industries and College of Engineering 
are practically complete and will be 
issuèd this week. The schedules will 
be posted in the office of the Regis­
trar and in the offices of the directors 
*of the several colleges.
The summer program in the Marga­
ret Morrison Carnegie College is not 
yet definitely 'settled.
Students intending to take courses 
in the summer session may get fur­
ther details from the ofiice of Dr. 
Ihrig, Director of thé summer session, 
Central Building, Room 230.
gather in the Carnegie bowL for a 
good, old-fashioned bonfires and pep 
rally.
The newly organized group of Cites 
met last week for the purpose of 
electing a new president to fill the va-
observed by all classes, and one which 
is a cause for a general illumination, 
in which practically every house in 
the empire is decorated and lighted 
up.
Some idea of the gaity of the scene 
may be gathered from the fact that 
lanterns of every conceivable variety 
are decorated and carried through the 
streets.
On this evening the women, who 
are seldom allowed out at night, may 
view the beautiful illumination. The 
emperor throws upon his grounds and 
private gardens for the people’s pleas­
ure.
The costum^ of China offer a wide 
range, and there is a great chance for 
imagination in the adaptation of the 
ancient to the modern. However, 
modern pajama outfits are positively 
prohibited.
Tho advance bulletins with all the 
information necessary to the prepara­
tion for the ball have been circulated.
The designs for the decorations 
which have been described in a pre­
vious issue, will be allowed to re­
main as they are for the Post Arts 
Ball dance, which will be held the 
Saturday night following the ball. 
The Post Ball dance will bo doubly 
attractive, since the Garber-Davis or­
chestra has been engaged for both the
Methods of Handling Chemical Plant bau an(i t]le poat ball dance.'
Materials,” on Friday evening, March 
7, 'is a widely known consulting engi­
neer on chemical engineering prob­
lems. Mr. Marshall is a. native, of 
England, where he was educated, and 
since 1911 he has been a resident- in 
this country.. An interesting piece of 
work performed by Mr.-»Marshall was 
(Continued on Page Three)
STUDENTS DISCUSS WAR 
PREVENTION PROBLEMS
“What Should we, as students, do 
about war?” was one of the great 
questions discussed at the World 
Wide Volunteer Conference at Indian­
apolis. . What part, if any should the 
student of the colleges and itniversi- 
ties of today, tffke in the social and 
intellectual disputes of the country? 
How'can the student aid in the pre­
venting of these disorders?
The majority of students believed 
that the best way to prevent war is 
to educate the people so that they 
may understand the fundamental 
causes. It was stated that we should 
be more concerned about the affairs 
of the world, there should be more 
reasonableness in our thinking, we 
should reason and figure out solutions- 
for these problems. War is a blemish 
on the face of society—it is a setback 
to civilization. * War is to be hated— 
it is unchristian.
'On the other hand it was stated by 
some that preparedness is a possible 
solution to the war problem. No in­
ternational thug is going to attack a 
nation that is prepared. History has 
shown that unpreparedness is • a 
breeder of war. Again, it is the duty 
of the state to protect the welfare of 
its people. 4
Another solution was suggested, 
which is the forming of a World Court 
or League of 'Nations. The lack of 
(Continued on Page Two)
DONN ’TFRGEHBI .GRDR
STUDENT, DIES SUDDENLY
Miss McCarthy, a night student in 
the Department of Drama, died very 
suddenly on the afternoon of Thurs­
day, January seventeenth. Miss Mc­
Carthy was one of the best students 
in the Night School Drama course, 
her work having attracted the partic­
ular attention of the instructors here. 
Miss McCarthy was . a sister of 
“Chick” McCarthy, who is a day stu­
dent in the. Drama Department and a 
member of the varsity football squad.
DO YOU KNOW “SHIP AHOY”?
Industries Men to Stage 
First Annual Smoker Soon
The men in the College of Indus­
tries are planning to hold a smoker 
in the near future. It is hoped to 
make this an annual event very sim­
ilar to the Science Stag, and will take 
place in the Union, probably about the 
first of March.
This Industries smoker has the 
backing of the Student Senate of,the 
College of Industries and a commit­
tee has been appointed for the affair, 
consisting of J. B. Foster, chairman; 
J. K. Matter, T. J. Dempsey, C. M. 
Bucheit, and G. Carl. This commit­
tee is now working on a program 
which will include local entertainment 
and music.
it is thought that this social func­
tion will fill a long-felt need in the 
College of Industries by bringing to­
gether all Industries men, promoting 
good fellowship and acquainting the 
school with the work of this college.
DO YOU LIKE “WEDDING BELLS"?
Herb Polesie and Verner I-Ialden 
have thus far proved themselves de­
serving of praise and credit for their 
(Continued fin Page Four.)
DR. MERRIAM STRESSES 
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM
“Education will give Its largest're­
turn to the student at the timo when 
he will be most useful to the world, 
that is, between the ages of 35 and 
60 years,” was the gist of an unusual 
address given in the Little Theater 
on Monday evening, January 21, by 
Dr. John Campbell Merriam, Presi­
dent of the Carnegie Institution of 
Washington, D. C. The subject of the 
address was “the time in life when 
education gives the largest return to 
the student.” President Baker intro­
duced the speaker.
Dr. Merriam stressed the fact that 
an educational program must not bo 
laid down to prepare the student for 
the immediate present, but must be of 
such content as will be useful for 
later life. He pointed out that some 
courses are being offered in educa­
tional institutions that are out of date 
even for present-day students. “Only 
that body of' knowledge should be 
passed on to the students that is read­
ily adaptable to constantly changing 
conditions.
His appearance here was in keeping 
with President Baker’s plan to bring 
men of prominence on the campus, 
that faculty and students may have 
the opportunity for personal contact 
with them. Dr. Merriam spoke at 
ifoon of the same day before the Hun­
gry Club of Pittsburgh, at which meet­
ing Mr. John L. Porter, chairman of 
the Committee of the Institute
tion was placed upon the shoulders 
of Ray Keller, who at once started to 
plan for the big event, the manage­
ment of which was placed in the 
hands of the Cites. This recently 
elected president has appointed a 
committee to confer with a represen­
tative of the Carnegie Tartan on the 
matter of .publicity. From the ru­
mors around 'the campus. It’s going to 
(Continued on Page Two.)
DO YOU LIKE t'WEDDING BELLS”?
Opportunity to Buy 
Thistle Next. Week
REGISTRATION THIS 
YEAR FEB. 5 AND 6
Times for Various Classes 
Are Indicated Below; 
Register on Time
BRING OUT THE TUXEDO; DUST 
OFF THAT STIFF SHIRT; JUNIOR 
PROM FRI. NIGHT AT SCHENLEY
GLEE CLUB WILL HOLD
REHEARSALS FOR TRIP
The Glee Club is having two final 
rehearsals on the socond and ninth 
of February, in preparation for the 
Cleveland trip. There are a few va­
cancies, especially in tho first and sec­
ond tenors. Anyone wishing to try 
out for tho trip is asked to report on 
Sunday, February 2, at tlio exhibition 
room in the Arts building.
Registration Days Chosen for 
Final Sale
Because of the lack of co-operation 
on the part of the student body in 
subscribing to the 1924 Thistle, tho 
board has dflbhled to glvo overy stu­
dent a final opportunity to purchase 
a 1924 year book on the registration 
days, February 5 and February 6.
Since the Thistle-Board lias definite­
ly instituted their new policy of not. 
ordering any extra copies whatovor, 
this will be the last opportunity for 
students to securo a 1924 Thistle., Tho 
year book goos to pross on February 
6, and those not having subscribed at 
that time will be unable to got them 
at a later date.
Only about twenty-five per cont 'of 
tho organizations on.tho campus luivo 
paid their Thlstlo bill. Those bills 
must bo paid before February .15, or 
the respectlvo pictures will not ap­
pear in the lfy§4 Thlstlo.
A list of .organizations Which lmvo 
not settled their account with tho 
Thistle Board will bo published on 
February 15. All checks should bo 
sent to M. D. ICallfelz, Treasurer, Box 
165, Carnegie Tech Postoffico.
Registration and payment of stu­
dent fees for second semester regis­
tration will be held in the gymnasium 
(opposite Central Building) on Tues­
day and Wednesday, February 5 and 
6. S:30 to 11:30 a. m. and 1:00 to 4:00 
p. m.
All day students should report as 
indicated below, early in the morn­
ing of February 5,©for the arrange­
ment of a second •semester schedule:
Freshmen (Colleges of Engineering 
and Industries)—Office of Dean of 
Freshmen.
Other Students—Colleges of Engi­
neering and Industries—Head of De­
partment.
All Students—College of Fine Arts 
—Head of Department
Freshmen—Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College—Room 100.
Other Students—Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College—Head of Depart­
ment.
When the schedules have boen pro- 
pared in quadruplicate, they must bo 
taken to tho Office of the Director for 
approval.
After tho copioo of the schedule 
have boen approved, class coupons 
will bo, Issued In the Office of tho Di­
rector. Each student will receive one 
coupon for oach subject oji his sched­
ule. Only the naipo, class and course 
should bo Insortod on tho throe' sec­
tions of oach coupon.
Tho student should then roport to 
tho registration room (Langloy Lab­
oratory) presenting the two copies of 
the approved schodulo and all cou­
pons arranged In tho order In which 
tho subjects are listed on tho 
schedule.
Before entering tho registration 
room, tho student should i)o proparod 
to pay tho regular foos ($95.00) and 
laboratory chargos. A schodulo of 
laboratory chargos is posted on tho 
official bulletin boards. Studonts ox- 
pocting to graduate in 1924 aro ro- 
(Contlnuod on Pago Three)
NAMES FOR GIRLS’ 
DORMS SUGGESTED
Trustees Plan to Name Each 
Dormitory at an Out-door 
Ceremony
DO YOU KNOW "SHIP AHOY"?
INDUSTRIES TO HOLD 
ANNUAL GAMBOL, FEB; 21.
Final Sale of Tickets Now in 
Full Swing — Don't Wait 
Too Long to Buy That 
Final Ticket
EXAMS END SAME DAY
BEAUX ARTS HONORS WON 
BY THIRTEEN ARCHITECTS
Thirteen Carnegie architectural stu­
dents won high honors in the last na­
tionwide Competition conducted by 
the Beaux Arts Institute of Design In 
New York.
In the class B Plan Project, a prob­
lem to design a candy shop, Jared Til
mentions were awarded to Herbert W. 
Damon, Jr., and Waynes F. Koppes.
A first mention placed award was 
won by A. H. Fink, in the Class B 
Analytiques, a problem to design a 
family tomb. First mentions in this 
problem were won by the following: 
Lyle E. Swiger, Ernest N. Butler, 
James F. Glover, Ray V. I-Iarkless, El­
mer I. Love, Charles A. Markley, 
James F. Palumbo, Raymond I. Win­
ters, and Robert G. Craig. With the
— -----------— _______ _________ of ! exception of Craig, all of the winners
Technology, was the presiding officer, are day stutfents.
Plans aro well under way for tho 
blggost all-Ournoglo dance of tho 
year, tho Gambol of tho Guilds, which 
is tho annual daneo glvon by,tho Col­
lege of Industrios, :ln tho Union on 
February 21. Tho Collegluto Imps 
have been soloctod to provide tho mu­
sic, with dancing fron$f) until 1.
According to tho committoo, this 
year's Gambol will bo very unique In 
tho lino of historical decorations. Tho 
decorations will follow tho period in 
which the Gambol of the Guilds was 
first cfelobratod in England. The 
orchestra has also promised to help 
In securing an.original effect for tho 
affair. •
Everything points towards a good 
time,’ ¿ood music, unique decorations, 
good refreshments, and four hours of
lotson won first mention placed. First^ good dancing. The price will bo $2.50
per couple. Preliminary tickets were 
placed on sale last week.
RESERVED SEATS FOR
PITT GAME ON SALE
• There are 500 reserved seats in the 
new Gymnasium, which are now on 
sale for the Pitt game at the office of 
the Graduate Manager. These seat^ 
are reserved for Alumni and visitors, 
and will not be sold at a discount to 
holders of student books. The price 
is $1.25 each.
Master Mind Produces Plan For 50,000 Smacks,
Advocates the Tieing Up of Congressmen in Sacks
The plan of naming the girls’ dorm­
itories has at last boon consummated, 
and a tentative list of names has been 
drawn up.
The authorities of the school liavo 
for somo time boon considering the 
matter of giving names to tho differ­
ent dormitories, and the following sug­
gestion is th$ result of their thought 
on tho subject.
Just as soon as tho Aveatlier be­
comes ‘milder, thoro will be a short 
outdoor ceremony hold, a sort of chris- 
toning for tho several donnltorlos. 
At tho christening, a plato bearing tho 
name of tho liouso will.be put up, and 
with its afljustmont, tho Jiouso will bo 
officially named.
Tho list now considered is listed be­
low:
5064 Forbos stroot—Elm Hall.
5072 Forbos stroot—Hawthorn Hall.
50S0 Forbos street—Laurel Hall.
5090 Forbos stroot—Linden Hall.
5133 Woodlawn—Maplo Hall.
' 5137 Woodlawn—Magnolia* Hall.
T>148* Woodlawn—Oak Hall.
5147 Woodlawn—S'ycamorb Hull.
5151. Woodlawn—Walnut Hall.
5150 Forbos , (corner Woodlawn)— 
Willow Hall.
Thoso names lmvo notr boon doiln- 
itoly decided upon, but thoy will prob­
ably run along this lino.
Another worthy suggestion is to 
name them afctor ti’oos, but to have 
them run in such an order as to spoil 
out "Caruoglo Toch.” That Is to be­
gin with 5064 Forbos and mnko the 
circuit all tho way around and up 
Woodlawn. For oxample, Cherry Hall, 
Ash Hall, etc. 9
At any rate, another six or eight 
weeks will soo tho girls’ dormitories 
oaoli p'ossosslng a name of its very 
own and it plato bearing that niimq 
over tho door, 0
NIGHT SCHOOL PART TIME 
ENROLLMENT IS GROWING
Tho now short course on tho ''Prin­
ciples of Iron and Stool Making” start­
ed on Tuosday ovonlng, January 22 
addod forty-one to tho already largo 
number of studonts taking night and 
purl-tlmo coursgs horo. It Is oxpoctod 
that thoro will bo at loast fifty men 
In attendance befforo tho end of next 
week.
Tho enrollment In tho Night School 
on January 15 showed 231J. studonts 
in regular attendance. Thoro woro 
almost a hundred now studonts en­
rolled in thp night courses in. Arts, 
and Industries Schools and a few men 
admitted with advanced standing in 
tho College of Engineering during the 
first half of the month of January. 
It ia expected that the same number 
will probably enroll during the second 
half. The enrollment of these new 
students will probably bring the total 
up to 2400. •
This figure is exclusive of the men 
and women enrolled in part time 
courses, who number approximately 
five hundred. Director Ihrig sees the 
time approaching when he will have 
more, students under his direction 
than the Deans of Men and Women1 
combined have, in the day courses. 
With a total of 2900 men and women 
in these courses it will not be long 
before night and part-time courses en­
rollment of night students will- ex­
ceed the enrollment of day students.
The final sale of tickets for tho 
Men’s Junior Prom is now in full 
swing and indications point to one 
of tho most successful affairs of this 
kind ever held at Carnegie. A great 
many tickets have been sold already 
and the commititeo is beginning to 
make plans for limiting the number 
of couples. This is necessary as tho 
ballroom can only comfortably ac­
commodate a certain number and 
thoso in charge of tlie> affair are talc­
ing steps to Insure comfortable danc­
ing space for all.
Those RUSOA hestitate to buy tickets 
until the last minute are greatly en­
dangering their chances of receiving 
favors for tho ticket sal© bids fair 
to outnumber the favors order. Tho 
final Mckots will be numbered and 
the lowest numbered“ tickets sold 
first so that those holding high num- 
'bors will bo Lhe ones to be discom­
moded if a shortage of favors should 
occur. A special alumni ticket sale 
at thp door will insure favors to 
thoso alumni who do not) have an op­
portunity of purchasing their tickets 
beforehand.
Plans for ovory phase of tho Prom 
are complete and everything down to 
tho minutest dotail has boen arranged 
with ibuiti one object In vlow—that of 
Insuring ovory person in attendance 
a glorious evening. Evory day re­
ports extolling tho inherits of Davo 
'Harmon/s Orchostra aro hoard and 
each only emphasizes the fact that 
thoro will bo SOME MUSIC at tho 
(Continued on Pago Three)
Annual Science Stag 
To be Held March 15
Committee Appointed to Plan 
Program for Frolic
By Don Garner. lever they are if you don’t leave no else and* then there wouldn’t be no
From the originator of a beer that! place ta get in?” Every Susie among more wars. Marvelous! Superb! Ir- 
made Milwaukee famous to the donor! them hopped up on her hind legs and | resistible! for a three-year-old child! 
of a prize for the most idiotic idea for j vociferated that she craved peace. \ But, we are told, somebody did have 
the suppression of warfare,is a long War, they chirped, was destructive, j a stroke of genius. The little*rascal 
step. Stepping from the sordid air not to mention taking away eligible j, thought of a technicality—namely 
of the corner saloon holding a stein men during Leap Year, and there that Congress knows less about our
of Bock beer in one hand and a pret­
zel .in the other to appear among the 
leading blighters of the country’s law­
makers with a book of Roberts' “How 
to Order” in lieu *of the beer and an 
olive branch wrapped around the 
pretzel is no mean accomplishment. 
And then to offer one hundred thou­
sand dollars, actual coin of the realm,
affairs than the Secretary of Siam at 
a champagne party In honor of the 
arrival of the Denishawn Dancers at 
an Informal dansante In front of tho 
Royal Palace—and cares about
wasn't any use for It.
Pretty soon they began electing
presidents who shouted from their 
front porches that Sherman was right 
and then went in and ordered thir­
teen more ships for the rats to play I much. So what does he do but out 
around in. Then somebody got the line the policy that tho dear old couh- 
idea that for a miserable stipend of try has beeji pursuing for the past 
$50,000 someone of the latent, master twenty years without knowing It and 
for an idea as to how to promote I jpinds of the country might be In-1 send It In, And does It get away?
peace—well it's simply scrumduvious! | duced to run the chance of maiming .lust $50,000 worth, which ain't so bad 
Speaking of this business of peac'; j their hitherto unused organisms by j for not straining your brow corrugut* 
it seems that ever since the Tuesday i thinking of a way of playing chess to j Ing It.
Ladles’ Club began knitting tootsie | decide which foot France was to kick I But the real master stroke has been
warmers for the poor but honest and j Germany witn. villainously withheld from the public,
misled warriors struggling for the And it worked. Oh my yes, it Not that we think we're experts on
cause of humanity, and began getting i worked wonderfully! All the erst-( the bu8lness''of peace—ask the guy 
irate replies stating "how in blazes j while diplomats not only ran the risk, j who tries to collect the installments
kin ya expect a guy ta wear these j but actually cracked their delicate on our new scenery and socks—but if
d..........d undershirts or sox or what-‘ think apparati—if the results show (Continued on Page Three.;
Foreign Student Relief 
Drive Will be Held Soon
A system of world-wide co-opera­
tion among students in universities 
and colleges throughout the entire 
world is gaining great headway 
among the students of various Ameri­
can schools. This system has beeu 
developing for several years and has 
gained recognition among most of the 
universities and colleges of the United 
States,
The system lias for its policy the 
administration of relief for European 
students who have been greatly handi­
capped In their struggle for an educa­
tion due to In Hti ill cion t funds and lack 
of aid formerly received from their 
various governments,
The largest colleges and universi­
ties have already made their contribu­
tion, and it is hoped that when the 
call reaches Carnegie Tech the stu­
dents will respond with their hearty 
support.
REMEMBER “LOVE'S WALTZ”?
.Tames A. Robertson, president of 
the Student Senate of the Collogo of 
Engineering, has appointed tho com­
mittee which will have charge of tho 
1024 Science Stag. This annual stag 
frolic of tho ongln.oovliig fltiulout« will 
bo hold on Hul,unlay, March 15,
Tho ooiuiuitteo has boon soloctod 
from tho Senior mid Junior classes 
of tho Mnglnoorlug College and in­
cludes tho following mon: 10. It. Pat­
ton, D, A. Schoorlco, and F. W. Bro- 
mor, of tho Senior Clans; .1. B. Whit­
man and F. 1). Rossini, of tho Junior 
Class. 1!1. R. Patton/ Is chairman of 
tho committoo.
Tho Sbionco Stag In an annual In­
stitution in tho College, of Engineer­
ing, the name Science Stag arises 
from the fact that the Collogo of En­
gineering was formerly known as tho 
Selonco S'chool. An engineering stu­
dent may miss a class banquet or a 
school ball, but ho novor falls to at­
tend a Selonco Stag, where tho entire 
Engineering College, faculty and stu­
dents, have their annual got-togethor.
Class stunts will as usual form tho 
nucleus of tho entertainment. Tho 
presidents of tho four classes of the 
collogo w111 each appoint a commit- 
teo. Those committees will have 
charge of preparing and conducting 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Engineering Assembly
Hears H. Foster Bain
Labor problems In the nitrate fields 
of Chile as illustrating the type of 
problems engineers have to consider 
when undertaking development of new 
industries, or in new regions, were dis­
cussed by IT. Foster Bain, Director of 
the U. S. Bureau of Mines, in ah ad­
dress before the Student Assembly of 
the College of Engineering, last Tues­
day.
“The original inhabitants, the Aran- 
canian Indians,” he sakl, “never were 
conquered and so day laborers have a 
highly developed sense of independ­
ence and individualism that enters 
into all they do. For three centuries 
tho country was devoLod to agricul­
ture and stock raising on big estates 
with peasant farmers working under 
patrons, each with his little plot and 
herd but oach drawing rations from 
the big house. Into this simple primi­
tive industrial system has comp the 
ferment of modern concentrated in- 
(Contlnucd on Pago Four.)
NINE HUNDRED DOLLAR
PRIZE FOR BEST POSTER
Tho Pennsylvania Railroad is offer­
ing prizes amounting to nine hundred 
dollars for the best posters and slo­
gans for the 1924 campaign against 
Highway Crossing Accidents.
The posters must be In not more 
than four colors and must be applic­
able to railroad crossing accident pre­
vention. The size of the posters must 
be 21x33 inches.
All designs and slogans must be 
submitted by February 11 to IT. A. 
Rowe, 90 West street, New York City.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1924
26 Carnegie iEbtao
Published, every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.___________
H. I’’. SIMPSON ................................................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schenley 9143
J. C. MAJOR.......................................................................Acting Business Manager
Telephone inland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD ...................................................................Managing Editor
Telephone Sclionley 9189
FRED C. SMITH....,.....................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS..........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
BARA MAID EVERETT .................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES ...................................................................... Associate Editor
H. H. WILSON ............................................................................... Associate Editor
W. WINNING .......................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Sclienley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI ........................................................................................ News Editor
Telephone Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS ..................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schenley 9211
fl. C. FRAZIER  ............................................................................. AthlotlC Editor
Telephone Schonley 9143
A. E. KROOII............................................................................................Alumni Editor
R. W. SLEATH ................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ........................................................................• Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, Jit.......................................................................................... Art Editor
DON GARDNER .................................................................................. Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY ...................................................................... Circulation Manager
B. BROUDY ............................................................. Assistant Business Manager
W. M. GIBSON..........................................................'..............Advertising Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Estelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Jane Gordon, Wilma Stlner, Carol Folght, 
Margaret McFall, Rosemary McCambrldgo, Nora ‘Willetts, Mary O’Brien, 
Aimee Pliaro, N. C. Weser, V. B. Smith, L. II. Harris, E. G. Johnson, J. M. 
Goss, F. L. Wagner, F. M. McClelland, J. M. Early, D. M. Davidson, M. W. 
Gay, F. L. Ford, E. E. Kerns, C. A. Lundquist, E. L. Kennedy, E. William
Ekdahl, Lillian Cunningham._______________________________________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Rassbach.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moslcovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandroelt, A. Grodner, A. Bar- 
brow, A. Perreton, Lee C. Osborne.
Tho Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up. ________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news Items must bo in the student 
poHtoillco before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Olllce—Room G-A, Industries Building. Office hours—Daily 12:30- 
1:20. _______________________________________________________________
INTER-FRATERNITY RELATIONS
There is such a thing YH fraternity politics. And yet there should 
not he. Every fraternity, not only on the Carnegie campus, but on 
any campus in America, admits the truth of these two statements. 
Some chapters—we select our word carefully and pointedly—prac* 
tico it. Some do not. No fraternity as a whole practices it, for il! 
they did, they would he courting their own extinction, for on the 
very baseboard of their foundation lies the statement: “GOOD 
FELLOWSHIP.” And how can good fellowship exist wli^re cut­
throat methods are practiced? And what is fraternity politics but a 
gentleman’s name for cut-throat practices?
¦Written firmly in the code of fraternal relations lies the two 
words: “FIFTY-FIFTY,” which is in itself the backbone of good 
fellowship. When the statement: “Do unto thy fellow-man as you 
would they should do unto you” ceases to be practiced, something 
is amiss somewhere, and, we’ll take our hats oil to the man who 
dares prove “all is O. IC.” at such a time.# # -X- ¦*'
How can we become good fraternity men? '
I How pan we become good Carnegie men?
II! you play the game of iil'ty-iil’ty; il: you spurn politics.; if you 
givo student activities a fair allotment of my time; if you give your 
level best to your studies; if you recommend tfic best man for every 
activities job that it is your privilege to recommend for; if you think 
a lot -before you spehlc only a little; if you fight like a man, hitting 
straight from tho shoulder, for what you, after mature consideration, 
helievo is best; iT you report to tho proper authorities everything you 
know is wrong; il' you act instead of gossip; il' you, in doing all ol! 
thoso, have a rogard for the right and wrong, then ill is assured that 
not only will you bo a good fraternity man but likewise a better 
CJarnogio Tech man.
For after all, upon what is the reputation of your fraternity 
built? Jib is built upon tho actions of your soparatd chapters, and il! 
one fails' your fraternity an a whole is going to receive a black eye.
And upon what is the reputation ol! your chapter built? It is 
built upon iiow you servo your collogo, It is built upo;i the game you 
play, it is built upon whether or not you place school duties above 
fraternal ambitions.
Mere at Carnegie Tech, it is built upon how well you “fight for 
the glory of Carnegiol”
I was walking with a man who was not a college man, and there» 
fore not a fraternity man. Wo passed a. big, massive house, with a 
group of men sitting on the porch, and from within came tho merry 
tunes of a, rollicking songl'est. Upon the right side of the door was 
a. name plate bearing some Greek letters. Tho man said: “That 
lip use is not as it appears. II; seems as if good fellowship is written 
all ovor it, and it is, but like other forms, of beauty, it is. only skin 
deep. Back behind those massive walls lies polities and the outward 
crust of good fellowship is merely, a sham.”
Fraternity men, take heed to yourselves.
There is no room at Carnegie for fraternity polities. The Inter- 
Fraternity Council says so.
“May the best man win” would be a good motto for the fra­
ternities at Carnegie.
SCRAPS O’ PLAIDWind Plays Havoc in |j H00T MON | | 
enf I ifcninp (.onfest t ....- ¦* !
TfimpiiK "PiigltR pftrhnpa most-, clear-
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY, JANUARY 28
“Bird in Hand”..............................................8:15 P. M., Arts Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1
Men’s Junior Prom...................................9:00 P. M., Hotel Schenley
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 3
Musical Clubs’ Practice...........................2:00 P. M., Exhibition Room
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5
Registration ..............................................................Langley Laboratory
Bonfire.............................................................64:5 P. M., Carnegie Bowl
Basket Ball—Carnegie vs. Pitt...............................................v.New Gym
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6
Registration..............................................................Langley Laboratory
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8
Parmalee Lecture...............................................8:15 P. M., 218 Science
“Feast ol! the Lanterns”.............,.......................9:00 P. M., Arts Foyer
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
Post Ball Dance..................................................9 :00 P. M., Arts Foyer
Sophomore Banquet......................................7:00 P. M., Hotel Schenley
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Benefit Bridge (M. M. Secretarial«)....................................MeCrecry’p
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21 
Gambol of the Guilds...................................................9:00 P. M., Union
TECHNICAL JOURNAL 
WILL BE OUT IN FEB.
The next number of tho Technical 
Journal wtli 'ho Issued early In Feb­
ruary. It will contain articles on a 
very wide scope of subeels.
There will be, in ifll, twelve tech­
nical articles, among which will bo, 
“Sources and Supply of Milk for a 
Big City” by A. J. Burnap'; "Automa­
tic Highway Policemen" by V. A. 
Schmitz, and "The Determination of 
the Physical Properties of Gases'' by 
S. Pickering.
By way of widening its fi^ld, the 
Journal will also publish ail article 
on stage technicalities, which will be 
of special interest to students of the 
Drama Department.
By Hal and Mac.
We’re mopping our brow Just about 
now. Suppose you v/onder how such 
a thing could happen Jn mid-winter 
with tho old mercury crowding the 
zero mark. The fact is we're In a fin­
ish match with these things known as 
final jaxams, and they sure do make 
it hoFfor us.
This quarantine business is getting 
to be quite the thing—a fine oppor­
tunity to get a vacation. But it's a 
hot race to get caught up when you 
get bûtfk. What we wonder is how 
tho Maggies got that way. Soundii 
bad boys!
Perhaps you wonder where we’ve 
been tho last two weeks. Just refer 
to the little item and you can guess 
tho rest.
We're seeing lots of LFHC sporting 
themselves about these days. The 
boys seem to be proud of them and 
why shouldn’t they?
“Yo-ho, tho cats are after the fish’ 
nays tho Puppet of recent issue. Most 
cats fish for "gold” fish in a globe. 
We wonder if there is a similarity to 
us mortals. Hey! Quit pulling our 
hair! We didn’t mean you.
Did you miss our line in the' last 
two issues? Well, whether you did 
or not we’ll try to provoke and pes­
ter you regularly from now on.
Here’s hoping we’ll see all the old 
faces still with us after this week.
‘THE BIRD IN H£ND” WILL
THIS WEEK
RD IN HAND” 
RUN AGAIN
After an interval of one week In its 
run of performances, "The Bi/rd in 
Hand,” a new comedy of, English life 
written by Prof. B. Iden Paiyno will 
ugain bo presented tills week with 
performances listed (for today, Wed­
nesday and Thursday evenings.
As much favorable comment was 
heard regarding this new work from 
the pen of Professor Payne following 
tho performances two weeks ago, 
large audiences are expected at the 
public presentations this . week.
r\'he scenes of the play take place 
in the Bird in Hand Inn, in tho vil­
lage of Growborough, Yorkshire. 
Professor Payne is directing the pro­
duction, which includes tho following 
cast: Ben Weinblatt, Arvid Crandall,
Russell Spindler, Mary Power, Ellen 
Lowe, Janet, Mlills, Verner Ilaldon, 
Joo Lazarus and O. B. Nowipan.
SECOND NEWMAN CLUB 
DANCE SET. FOR FEB.
Those who aro unable to attend 
lhe Arts ball tho night of February 
8 are offered an attractive substitute 
-tho 'Siecoml Nowman Club dance at 
llho Duquesno Council House, .Fifth 
and Bellofleld. The committee in 
sliargo ol! the affair is negotiating 
with an orchostra which has the’rep­
utation of serving up the notes with 
pop and precision. This will be an­
nounced next woolc,
The danc© will b6 tho major ovont 
of 'the club in tho season1 of «rojolc- 
lag (for some) which follows the 
examination», ft will be tho first 
opportunity of Pitt and Carnegie stu­
dents to oxtondi mutual oommlsorn- 
tlons on the rosulla of the oxams.
Tho program for tho. ovoniag will 
leave IHIllo timo to* mourn the de­
parted. it. 1« urrangod to forestall 
any flow of tears. Only those who 
can bo happy .without hehig serious 
aro Invited,
'I’lio dance w£ll, In no way intor- 
ftro with the regular Wednesday 
meetings. Tomorrow nlglit, tho Orange 
andi Rod teams of tihe basket, .ball 
league will, engage in a. spirited con­
test for tho collar position. Tho win­
ner is to challenge the Coffey Club. 
Dancing will while away the time 
till eleven.
SALE OR CHINESE ^ARTICLES 
WITHIN BOUNDS OF CARNEGIE
STUDENTS DISCUSS WAR
PREVENTION PROBLEMS
(Continued From Page One.) 
world organization Is largely respon­
sible for International' troubles, as 
was stated, and some provision Bliould 
bo made for an international law or 
some association of nations.
So, if studonts try to carry out tlia 
following suggestions, their intluonco 
may aid wonderfully in eliminating 
social and economic unrests of the 
country: 1. Promote education. 2.
Make friends with all nations. 3. 
Work through journalism and change 
the press. -1. Work with those of dif­
ferent nation for some definite cause. 
5. Indulge in real thinking and study.
DO YOU KNOW “SHIP AHOY”?
Not far from the College of Fine 
Arts and within the bounds of the' 
campus there is a Chinese store 
house.
Here one may find genuine Chinese 
necklaces, earrings, - c6mbs and 
charms. These are wrought in ivory, 
amber, jade and crystal. Besides 
these, one may find lovely old em­
broideries, mandoiev coats and Chi­
nese fans.
These articles liaAre been imported 
^i*om Caution and can be purchased at 
exceedingly reasonable prices. All 
who are interested in seeing them 
may do so foyi stopping at 5147 Wood­
lawn avenue, any weekday at noon, 
5:00-5:45, and 6:30-7:30 p. m., and 
Saturday afternoon. Miss, Harriet 
K. Walker of the Drama Department, 
has the Chinese articles to sell.
DISCUSSION OF ARTS
BALL AT ASSEMBLY
A“ very interesting assombly was 
held in the Collogo of Fine Arts last 
Tuesday. The main feature was a 
reading by Miss Mary Powor. The 
Arts Ball was also discussed at 
length by the chairman, Don Mnwhin- 
liey. Several of the phonograph rec­
ords that have lately been reproduced 
by the Garbor-Duvls orchestra wore 
played to give the students an idea 
of the .quality of music which they 
will hear at tho ball.
A new system has beeji arranged 
for tho Plebes that help with the dec­
orating and construction of the ball 
scenery. Each Plebo is given a card, 
and every hour he works is marked 
on the card, thus eliminating tho evil 
of having several Plebes do ay the 
work.
Decorations for the ball will be be­
gun in several days and promises to 
be even more beautiful and interest­
ing than that of previous years.
R. O. T. C. Plays Too—Tur­
moil in Camp Results
REMEMBER “LOVE’S WALTZ"?
The annual tent pitching contest of 
tho R. O. T. C. was run off the campus 
last Thursday, amid the cheers of 
many stragglers and cami) followers. 
The Engineer unit of the corps was 
the last to assemble, due to the fact 
that men In uniform were scarce, but 
owing to Major Knifiht’s ability as a 
general, the detail for tents was sent 
from that unit first. As Is the custom 
on the march, tho Motor Transport 
unit walked first, the Signal Corps 
next, and the Engineers were last to 
arrive at the appointed place—Flag­
staff Hill. ‘ The reporter was unable 
to see all of. the units work at once, 
for they were widely scattered, due 
to the wind, so he confined his report­
ing to the Engineers.
Not long after the whistle blew tho 
men in the rear rank began to move 
backward four paces. After they had 
come to position the command, 
"Halt,” was given by Captain Matter. 
Ten minutes later, when the last mail 
had stopped, the captain gave orders 
to pitch tents. Great turmoil ensued, 
and the difficulty with which men 
drove spikes into frozen ground with 
rubber heels was particularly noticed 
by the reporter. It is alleged, as is 
the custom of reporters, that the 
squad under the guidance of Captain 
Matter and Lieutenant I-Iemmenway, 
U. S. A., were the winners in the 
pitching contest. The men came to 
attention and the command, "Strike 
Tents,” was given. The squad- under 
Lieutenant L. H. Harris won this 
phase of the contest, for their tent 
had never been fully pitched!
The reporter watched the troops 
leave the field, and as the last man 
straggled down the embankment of 
the hill, a voice was heard in the 
ranks to say: "Next week will be the 
tooth-picking contest, get the picks 
from the Engineers' tool wagon."
Smoker by Electrical
Dept, is Great Success
The Science Electricals held a very 
successful smoker last Friday at the 
Electrical Lab. at Machinery Hall. 
This annual event held by the de­
partment was well attended by all 
three upper classes and guests from 
Industries and Arts.
Westinghouse moving pictures, fea­
turing electrical power fronr its first 
knowledge to the present time was 
first on the program. Mr. Potter then 
introduced the principal speaker of 
the evening, Mr. C. E. Skinner, chief 
engineer of research fgr Westing­
house. Mr. Skinner told the boys 
some of his trying experiences in his 
long Borvice with the company ami 
encouraged! the men to continue the 
good work for the profession,.
Professors Work, Patterson and 
Potter also spoke. Colonel Fairley 
was on hand with his humor and 
gave short talk on “Work Anything 
Front Dynamos to Bod Bugs In the 
Dorm.”
Tho stunt's which oacli class put I 
on-showed much thought. The Jun­
ior liirnlo, mysterious man, who could 
hear a whisper some hundred) feet 
away, was quito a wizard with his 
wired circuit through a radio ampli-' 
Her until some one short circuited
him.
The Sophs stagod a blind boxing 
match botwoon Cavon and Dopue. 
The Seniors cut in. on KDKA when 
they started their Tesla Coil. Mr. 
Nouitzonholzor pussodi 500,000 volts 
through Ills body and still lives. Ho 
did, however, pass enough' current
through ins body to light an electric 
bulb and candle.
The «Glee Chib, represented by
Gougliner, Dixon, Dolan and Le
Baron, were called on several timea 
to perform. The orchestra, with 
.loach um, Gargott and Pell tan, and 
Johnson’s piano solos, were well re­
ceived.
The committee was composed of 
Hlissom, chairman, Goughuer, Garbett, 
Cromwell, Le Baron, Schuckert and 
Gossard.
ly illustrates the trend of crnr pres­
ent. thoughts, though it is doubtless 
our cherished aspiration to adopt 
Caesar's pet remark—Veni, vidi, vici, 
before the mid-years are over. If we 
had oniyi omitted a few of those dates 
and expensive poker sessions! But 
then we can’t ail be grinds.
Have you noted that there is very 
much show passing down at the Al­
vin this week but little show of 
passing at Carnegie. But wait till 
next week, filien they will paàs out 
the grades and half the Plebe class 
will pass out. juter a hectic week 
of passing the buck, we are asked to 
pass on Bok.
If we may inmprovise upon Mother. 
Goose a bit:
Ding, dong, dell,
The world’s going to hell;
Who’ll avert the shock?
Edward W. Bok.
Six-and-:tlwenty colleges 
Each one voted aye,
They sent the plan to Congress 
And there they let it lie.
In many aspects the plan is admir­
able possessing most of the funda­
mental qualities requisite to assure 
suiccess. It is based on logic, tradi' 
tion, cust'om, asks no radiical changes, 
and demands no apparent concessions 
from, any t political group. But for 
originality, Don Gardner’s offer is 
greatly superior.
Originality—our present steam line 
was originally laid when the first 
dòrms were erected and the original 
is still the sole means of conveying 
heat, in additiion to serving the 
worthy purpose of thawing such snow 
as may accumulate on the walks— 
the zenith of originality. But, "The 
old order changeth yielding place to 
new,” and before next month has 
past, bids for constructing a new 
concrete tunnel and walks to carry 
the pipe lines will be coming in.
All we need now is steam heat 
for the Senior Fence, the prelimin­
ary estimate of the number of calo­
ries furnished by the hot air to lie 
dispensed there proving woefully er­
roneous. Smell calculations should 
be referred! to Commercials rather 
than to Physicists.
Pardon me,
KARL.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
Next week at this time there will [ mental exertion required to think se- 
be in progress here at Carnegie an in-1 riously about the merits, and demerits 
novation. It will be the first time j of the plan will be well spent. We- 
that students at Carnegie have ever j shall have come into closer contact 
taken official notice that there is such j with the world of affairs, 
a thing as a world outside our own j In many ways we will have a much 
little sphere. j more sound judgment than will older
j During the war days, of course, j People, owing to the prejudices 
I everything was astir and abustle, but j aroused in the minds of the public 
j one really had no choice about the : during the league fight of 1919-20. We 
l matter then. War days are always j n°t be fooled by the morsels held 
days of excitement. No so with the i out ior the votes of anti-leaguers, and 
days of peace, and it is with a plan i pro-leaguers alike, 
very much concerned with peace and Much criticism is aimed at college 
its blessings that we are to deal. students on the basis that we seem 
Much-has been said to the Ameri-j isnorant °*the march of the worlds' 
can student about his duties of citi-! events- Oftentimes that means, of 
zenship, but little has been done by £°uise- that we are a bit hazy as to
him. It is regretable that we shouldI the exact number of murders com-'
thus have failed in a vital point, but! Pltted the Previous day. or that we 
the answer of course is that we are | !iave n.0t.lfulIy fssimilated the opin- 
too busy, which piay sound funny but! i.?03- e r of ^le Morning
only to the outsider. i Ne'vs in the read.v way tllat ia ther .. . marl^ of a successful business man.
When now we final,y are gorng to j yet> the criticism is often just, and
there is no basis for the opinion thattake cognizance of the Bok Peace 
Plan, it behooves us to vote intelli-we are exempt from the general rungently. There are many things that; of scents in tills matter.
should be taken into consideration be-We are here given a chance to
Explain R, 0. T. C. Tests 
For Army Commissions
WILL HOLD BIG RALLY
BEFORE RIVALS CLASH
(Continued From Page One.) 
be an evening chuck-full of surprises. 
The reporter caught a few words in 
connection with one of them—some­
thing about the launching of “The 
Carnegie Gym” into the Carnegie Sea 
of Athletics. That sounds interesting 
doesn’t it?
Of course the full program of 
events has not yet been, completed, 
but it will include the singing of the 
Ne^ Alma Mater as the'’ torch lights 
the great pile of timber, several short 
and snappy speeches by. Dr. Baker, 
Dean Tarbell, “Buddy” Overend, 
Coach Lubic, Cy Hoenninger, and oth­
ers, in addition to some other, stunts 
which are in the malting. Intermin­
gled with the speeches will be yells 
and songs. The band will he on hand 
in full regalia, and after the snake 
dance, will lead the parade over to 
tho now gym.
Do you, by any chance, happen to 
remember the glorious display of pop 
and school spirit which tho Panthers 
carted over to Forbos Field on the 
twonty-sovonth day of October, 1923? 
Do you recall the pent-up enthusiasm 
which lot looso in town on Octobor 
twenty-ninth that same year? Well, 
this gathering in tho bowl is intend­
ed for tho purpose of calling back that 
same pop and enthusiasm which re­
vealed itself last fall. Let’s shows 
Pitt that our spirit before this game 
is as evident as it was after the last 
game.
if you waiit to lmvo one grand time 
and get back the old pep which has 
been dormant since football season, 
come out to the bonfire! There’s go 
ing to be lots doing, and lie or she 
who misses it, is going to regret it 
for the rest of his or her college 
career.
The issue of The Carnegie Tartan 
for the week of January 15 contained 
an article concerning the eligibility 
of R. O. T. C. graduates for certain 
army officer examinations. Fearing 
that some misunderstanding might 
have been created in the minds ofi 
those who read the article we wish 
to fulliyt explain the condition govern­
ing the examination.
The examination was to be given 
as a preliminary test for applicants 
for the vacancies in the grlide of sec­
ond lieutenants in the United. States 
Army. At the timeo of the final ex­
amination 6acli applicant must be in 
ono of tlie following classes: A war­
rant officer or enlisted man ' of tho 
Regular Army, having Had not less 
than two years’ service. A reserve 
officer or a member of the enlisted 
reserve corps. Ati officer, warrant 
offic'er, 'or enlisted man of the Nation­
al Guard: a graduate of a technical 
institution approved 4>y tho Secretary 
of War.
Candidates from civil life who pass 
the preliminary examination and who 
aro not members of one of the class­
es enumoratedi above will,, for the 
purpose of eligibility, be enlisted in 
tho Reserve Corps.
From the above will be noted that 
any white male citizen of the United 
States whetiller marriied or single is 
eligible for this examination. Grad­
uates from recognized technical 
schools or' R. O. T. C. units are ex­
empt from certain of the required 
examinations.
Will Establish Infirmary 
In Men’s Dorms Ere Long
A step forward has been made in 
making life in the dormitories more 
comfortable, enjoyable, and more com­
plete. This advance was made when, 
through the efforts of Miss Helm and 
the- co-operation of the boys, a num­
ber of rooms hav.e been set aside by 
Dean Tarbell as an infirmary. This 
has been a longfelt need of dormitory 
life. These rooms in Boss Hall will 
be kept ready at all times during the 
second semester for any cases of sick­
ness. If necessary isolation and a 
trained nurse may be secured.
The food question will be taken care 
of througfi Miss Helm’s kitchen from 
where already a large number of 
trays have been served. The boys 
have unanimously accepted the plan 
by which the affair will be financed. 
This will be taken care of with an 
assessment of fifty cents extra on the 
second semester room rent. The in­
firmary fee will be collected by the 
cashier at .the time the rent is pai(L 
Fifty cents is thought to be a very 
low sum in consideration of tho insur­
ance which will be made possible by 
it.
Tho endorsement and financing of a 
plan of this nature shows that the dor­
mitory boys are co-operating to get 
the host possible conditions in dorm 
life; and aro not, as some seem to 
think, trying to get all they can for 
nothing in return.
fore our vote is cast. think( just for the gake Qf thinklng|
Is the plan really constructive? If , and if we can get into that habit, the 
our votes are cast on tho basis that trouble taken by Edward W. Bok and 
the plan is harmless, we are .likely to | his associates will be well rewarded, 
find after a while that we were mis- j even though his plan should lose out 
taken. Under the present arrange- j in the end. It will all be For The 
ment our government is free to act in ! Good of Carnegie and For The Good 
any emergency that comes up. If the I of America as well.
plan is adopted, our officials will be 
tied by the rules of that document. 
Many other considerations enter, but 
let each of us decide for himself!
If we take a little time off after this 
nightmare of a week has passed to 
think about these matters, not only 
the school, but-we, ourselves, will be | 
benefitted individually. No matter 
how the result comes out, the little
Yours, For The Good of Carnegie.
HOOT MON IS LEAVING 
FIRST OF NEXT MONTH
'COLLEGE GIRL AS WIFE”
IS DISCUSSED AT MINNO.
The Hoot Mon is leaving. This in­
stitution, or perhaps a quiclt-lunch 
counter, was established on the Car­
negie campus almost a year ago by 
a former Arts student1, Mo. De Coal- 
as. The palatial emporium of the 
Hoot Mon will be no more the first 
part of Febrùary and hungry students 
will crowd some other place lor their 
soup and sandwiches.
The^-Ioot Mon was erected on of­
ficial hind of Carnegie's campus and 
not long ago the administration found 
it necessary to dispense with the 
building for different reasons among 
which were the beautifying crusade 
under way on the school ground, the 
various misunderstandings concern­
ing property! frontage, etc. The build­
ing wilL be torn down during the 
coming month.
GOV. P1NCH0T ADDRESSES 
PENNSYLVANIA STUDENTS
Governor Pincliot, at an intercol­
legiate mass meeting held at the Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania, spoke to the 
students on the subject of “Law and 
Order.” Law was defined as the basis 
of community life and obedience to 
law as the first duty of every citizen.
Governor Pincliot, in his address, 
appealed to the college men and wo­
men for their support in the work of 
making tho Eighteenth Amendment* a 
respected law.
When Pincliot took his office, he 
called to his aid trained college grad­
uates to help place the forestry“ regu­
lations among the laws which must be 
obeyed. “The present problem is not 
one of the destructipn of economic re­
sources, but of tho undermining of the 
social life of the nation,’.' said Gov­
ernor Pincliot. “It makes no differ­
ence whether one befieves in Prolii-, 
bition or not but as a law of the land 
its enforcement should „ receive the | 
support of college students, and its 
violation should call forth such action | 
as would be taken against' a force I 
which invaded their campus to defame | 
their teams and blacken the name of 
their university.”
The college girl as a wife and home­
maker was discussed at the Farmer’s 
and Homemaker's short course at the 
University of Minnesota. Both Mrs. 
Mary Schenk Woolman of Boston, tex­
tile expert, and Miss Mary Van 
Rensselaer, head of the School of 
Home Economics at Cornell, agreed 
that the college girl was eminently 
fitted for the position.
Mrs. Woolman said, '“The college 
girl has a stupendous advantage in 
filling her job as wife and homemaker, 
because, she brings to it a trained, or­
derly mind, disciplined by serious 
study.”
Miss Van Rensselaer said, “The col­
lege girl can spend her husband's 
money more intelligently than one 
\vho is not college bred, and this is 
as much of a job as earning it.”
DO YOU KNOW “SHIP AHOY”?
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 o’clock 
—"Building a Working Faith.” 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at 8 o’clock— 
The Re-Discovery of Jesus,- The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa­
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi­
calism.
DO YOU LIKE “WEDDING BELLS”?
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re­
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
Hear Their Latest Brunswick Record
“Sittin’ in a Corner”
“Learn to Do the Strut”
From THE MUSIC BOX REVUE
There is magic in the Brunswick Records made by the youthful 
Brox Sisters. On hearing them one can almost see the scintil­
lating Music Box Revue. And a fellow quickly forgets the 
worries of Caesar et Cicero.
Visit the nearest Brunswick dealer and ask to hear the best of 
the Brox Sisters’ Brunswick Records.
ANNUAL SCIENCE STAG
TO BE HELD MARCH 15
(Continued From Page One.) 
the stunts which will be featured by | 
their respective classes. The commit- j 
tee expects that competition between ! 
the various classes will tend toward ! 
the production of unique and original i 
entertainment on the part of the va-; 
rious class stunt committees.
Sittin’ in a Corner . .
Learn to Do the Strut . 
Down Among the Sleepy 
Hills of Tennessee . 
Little Boy Blues . .
2508Some Sunny Day . 
School House Days. 
Bring on the Pepper 
Come on Home .
¡2268
(2360
97ie Sign of.Jliusical 'Prestige.
PHONOGRAPHS AND RECORDS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 29. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS&
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
'CAP DOSEY ONCE 
A NOTED ATHLETE
BOB WADDELL COMING BACK
The decision of the Athletic Council to engage Bob Waddell as assist­
ant football coach for the season of 1924 will be a welcome one to the many 
who have been here long enough to remember Bob when he helped coach the 
Skibos a couple years ago. Judge Steffen, it is also announced, will con­
tinue to serve in an advisory capacity. This news, we are aware, will not 
meet with the approval of many who think that Carnegie needs and should 
have a regular full-time ocach.
But it must be considered that a coach of the calibre and type which 
would be required here is not to be found easily. Steffen himself wants to get 
out of the coaching game, but is so anxious to see us get on a solid basis 
in regard to coaching that he is willing to devote some of his time in the 
fall until a system can be evolved which will prove satisfactory from all 
points of view. We feel confident that Steffen would never have been allowed 
to leave Carnegie at all except for the pressure of his legal duties in Chicago.
Now, while Steffen himself cannot continue as head coach for much 
longer, it is considered very desirable that his system be continued. And it 
is this, we believe, that the Council had in mind when they engaged Bob 
Waddell. Bob is a young man, but he is a smart football mentor, and knows 
the Steffen system thoroughly. It may even be that Bob will some day 
qualify as head coach.The present arrangement will naturally give rise to some adverse crit­
icism, but the Athletic Council has given much time to an investigation of 
the situation, and has not taken this step without full consideration as to 
the wisest policy to pursue. At any rate, the arrangement is limited as to 
time, and the experiment will certainly prove worthy of trial.________________
BOK PLAN APPROVED
BY PROFESSOR WURTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
is perhaps too late to have a General 
Assembly on this subject. But how 
would it do for students to talk the 
matter over pro and con among them­
selves and so tend to crystallize their 
views preparatory to casting their 
vote on registration days?
It is obviously impossible to discuss 
the merits of the winning Peace Plan 
in a few lines. Let me suggest, how­
ever, that it be read over thoughtfully, 
carefully, out loud, if you will, at least 
one-half dozen times and then per­
haps, like myself, one will pass, as I 
did, from luke warm and passive in­
difference to an enthusiastic admira­
tion for its plain common sense.
Mr. Bole has done a big thing in a 
big a'nd sportsmanlike way. Let us 
do our' bit to' make it bigger yet.
PROFESSOR A. J. WURTS.
Linton: Did you ever get pinched
for going fast?
Eleanor: No, but I got squeezed
for going slow.—The Bulletin.
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason­
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school'•pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.—Adv.
for Winter Wether
An extensive selection 
of the newest and best 
in shoes wil be shown by 
I)avid T. Kirkpatrick at
at the
SKIBO iNN
Tuesday 
and 
Wednesday 
January 29 and 30
Sfores in NcwKrck .Brooklyn .Newark FùiJa.«- Address for Mail Oxti era iîiDuans? s treec-NYork City
Panther Invasion is 
Only One Week Off
Pitt Has Impressive Record 
of Victories Thus Far
The Pitt Panther shall wend its 
way across Fifth avenue and through 
Panther hollow into the haunts of the 
Scotch when the Pitt basket tossers 
are taken on by <5ie Plaid , in the new 
gymnasium February 5. The new 
gym is being rapidly put into shape 
for the contest and “Buddy” says that 
everything will be in readiness for 
the whistle.
The Pitt squad has been showing 
some fine basket ball this season and 
is coming with a great number of vic­
tories to their credit. Only twice this 
season have their opponents been able 
to pass their defense and ward off the 
attack of the Blue and Gold 
long enough to take home the 
victory- The strong rivalry between 
Pitt and Carnegie Tech is well known, 
and it would be a nice morsel for the 
Panther if he could walk away with 
the first game played in our own gym­
nasium, especially after our victory 
on the gridiron last fall.
Down in the field house Coach Lu- 
bic is working his men to the limit for 
this important contest although the 
squad is already overworked from the 
mid-year exams. Coach Lubic is an 
old Pitt alumnus and during his col­
lege days was one of Pitt’s star play­
ers, He is straining every nerve to 
put one over on his Alma Mater.
The Plebe tossers will have a tough 
proposition to handle when they take 
on the Panther Cubs in a preliminary 
contest scheduled to start at 7:30.
EDUCATIONAL NOTE NO. 46
If any U. S. co-ed had all the clothes 
she wanted, the rest of them would 
have to stay home and get their edu­
cation by correspondence courses. 
(Unless they came to school in bar­
rels.)
—California Trojan.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus ------- $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
DAVIES and HUGHES
cTWEN’S WEARj
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
THE constant 
smoker finds 
in Melachrino 
Cigarettes a deli­
cacy of flavor of 
which he never 
tires.
. ORIGINALMELACHRINO^
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Qvex ” __
Husky Foundry Boss Played 
Football and Baseball 
in Youth
Speaking of Plaiu personalities, we 
would just like to mention Cap 
Dosey as one of our prominent ath­
letic luminaries. Perhaps some of 
us don’t know llim, but to introduce 
him, he’s this husky red-headed boss 
of the foundry shop down in one of 
the iower wings o£ Industries. We 
use the word athletic in referring to 
him, because as a rooter and en- 
courager of Skibo teams, he has no 
peer.
The first Cap was heard 'of was in 
his high school days when he broke 
into the limelight as a- football play­
er on the Racine, Wis., team. 1-Ie 
completed the full four years, as a 
lineman on the prep- school outfit. 
The next place we find •Cap breaking 
forth is with the smi-professional 
baseball club of Racine of the Lake 
Shore League. Here we find him 
swinging a wicked club and chasing 
the white pill around for six long 
years. A bit later Cap again appears 
with the Case semi-professional foot­
ball team of Racine. Although he 
had not been actively ¡engaged in 
£his sport since his high school 
days he was still there with the old 
fight helping to break the opposing 
line and make way for the backs to 
score.
Cap came to Carnegie Tech eight­
een years ago from Chicago and set­
tled down in the little foundry shop 
where he spends day after day in in­
structing the younger generation how 
to get the “drag” just right. Not 
only do you find him in the foundry 
shop, but when the rereree’s shrill 
whistle, the crack of the starter's 
gun or the umpire’s "play ball” is 
heard for an athletic event such as 
football, baseball, track, brisket ball 
or cross-country, you can always find 
Cap there. A hearty slap on the 
baolc, a kindly word of. encourage­
ment, followed up with the support 
of a lusty voice from the bench. This 
;is the way in whioh he helps to 
bring victory to the Plaid.
SCHEDULE OF TRACK 
TEAM IS ANNOUNCED
The track schedule for the coining 
season has been completed by Mana­
ger Robertson, and indicated that the 
Plaid will enter a sti*enuous period 
when the weather allows the athletes 
to begin training.
Besides, the Penn relays, the Plaid 
will face the speedsters of Pitt, Alle­
gheny, Genova and other surrounding 
colleges in the Pitt Intercolleglates. 
The Philadelphia events open the 
schedule on April 2G. A relay team 
will be entered to compete In the 
Technical Schools class, the cham­
pionship of which was won by Car­
negie last year.
Three dual meets follow and the 
season is concluded with the Pitt in­
tercolleglates, on May 24:
The schedule is as follows:
THE TRACK SCHEDULE
April 26—Penn Relays.
May 3—Allegheny Dual and 
prep school meet. . •>
May! 10—’Geneva Dual and I-I. •> 
S. Intel-scholastic. *
May 17—Pitt Dual. *
May 24^-Pitt Intercollegiates. *
V V V V v. V V V V V V V V V V V
DO YOU LIKE "WEDDING BELLS"?
MASTER MIND PRODUCES PLAN 
FOR 50,000 SMACKS. ADVO­
CATES THE TYING UP OF 
CONGRESSMEN IN SACKS
° (Continued From Page One.) 
anything. Can you imagine—just 
imagine is all we ask—anyone who 
efcpepts to be paid good American 
money—perfectly good • filthy lucre— 
all flavored with peppermint and gov- 
ernmint an’ everything—for suggest­
ing that nobody get sore at nobody 
our .plan hadn’t been withheld for po­
litical reasons—well we had a $50,000 
workout planned for the night after 
the finals. In order that the public 
be treated to the best quality thought 
and real diplomacy we hereinunder 
offer our plan verbatim as submitted.t
rticle 1. Extract all teeth from 
ies at the age'of three.
Article 2. Place three ounces of 
arsenic in the- French pastry of every 
man, woman, and child who does not 
live in the U. S.
Article 3. Pass a law that women 
shall not wear hair pins or hat pins 
to exceed 1% and 13/16 inches in 
length respectively^
Article 4. Tell every man over six­
teen that the bogey man will get him 
.if he carries a gun;
Article 5. Send us the 100 thou and 
avoid the biggest row you’ve ever hgd.
That’s It complete—tangible, sim­
ple, direct. What could anybody want 
rmore than that? What’s that? Yell, 
you're right, $100,000.
REGISTRATION THIS YEAR
FEBRUARY 5 AND 6
(Continued From Page One.) 
quired to pay the diploma fee of $5.00. 
All checks must be made payable to 
A. N. Heyl, Cashier.
Registration should not be delayed. 
A penalty of $1.00 per day, or fraction 
thereof, will be imposed on those who 
register after the registration dates, 
February 5 and 6.
DO YOU KNOW “SHIP AHOY"?
SPRINKLE RESIGNS AS 
COACH OF PLEBE TEAMBob Waddell is MadeI jAssistant to Steffen
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
A special meetiijg of the Carnogie 
Tech Athletic Council was held last 
Tuesday night, at which some import­
ant business was disposed of. Hugh 
Sprinkle tendered his resignation as 
coach of the Freshman football team, 
on the grounds that his business con­
nections would not permit .him to 
coach the yearlings another year.
Sprinkle's resignation has made va­
cant a position which it is believed 
will be hard to fill. The Council has 
not yet selected his successor, but 
lias appointed a committee of four 
men to look into the question of coach 
for next year’s Freshman squad. This 
committee consists of Professor I-Iow- 
er, Dr. Marks, L. II. Lee and Pat 
Ryan. They will probably have a re­
port to make at the next meeting of 
the Council.
Two more managerial selections 
were made at this meeting. Enos M. 
Johnston was elected to serve as man­
ager of Freshman track, and R. H. 
Cutting was made a first assistant 
manager of basket ball. Johnston was 
a first assistant track manager last 
yer, losing the varsity managership on 
the final election. Dick Cutting has 
been working as a candidate for bas­
ket ball managership for two years, 
and his appointment as a first assist­
ant comes as no surprise.
The Athletic Council has also decid­
ed to give a trophy to the winner of 
the Western Pennsylvania champion­
ship interscliolastic basket ball tour­
nament, to be played in the new Skibo 
gymnasium. The dates on which the 
various games will be played off are 
as follows: March 4, 6, S, 10, 12, 15,
10 and 22. The best scholastic teams 
of this section of the state will com­
pete, and the finals will be played off 
on March 22. The winner will then 
journey to Penn State, where the 
state-wide champion will be determin­
ed.
So many applications for manager 
of Freshman baseball and Varsity and 
Freshman golf have been received 
that they have been referred to a 
committee consisting of the three stu­
dent members of the Council—Ryan, 
New’man and Dyke man.
It has been officially announced that 
Bob Waddell will be assistant coach 
to Wally Steffen during the season of 
1924. Wally will continue to bo head 
coach in an advisory capacity, while 
Bob will come back to the Plaid to 
carry on the nctive duties of coach­
ing. Waddell has served here bofore 
in a similar capacity, and also at his 
Alma Mater, Bucknell.
PROMINENT MEN TO SPEAK HERE
(Continued From Pago 1) 
the design of a large fertilizing plant 
for South African interests and the 
purchase of all machinery from Unit­
ed States manufacturers. Tills plant 
is said to bo the largest outsldo the 
United States, and has been quite suc­
cessful.
Many of the men and womon who 
will attend the lecture on Thursday 
evening, March 13, by F. M. Turner, 
Jr., of New York, will doubtless ho 
personally acquainted with him; as ho 
is a former resident of this city. For 
several years, ho was connected with 
the Research Dopartmont of the Va­
nadium Corporation of Amoiica, at 
Biidgevllle, Pa. At present ho Is tech­
nical editor of the Chemical Catalog 
Company. Tils subject is "to be 
“Crushing, Grinding, Sifting and Mix­
ing Equipment.”
Dr. F. C. Zeisberg, the last spoalcor 
in the series, will lecture Friday even­
ing, March 21, on “Equipment Phases 
of Nitric and Sulphuric Acid Manu­
facture." Dr. Zeisberg, during the 
past five years has been successively 
manager of the Intelligence Division 
of the Chemical Department, and the 
Elementary Process Division of the 
Chemical Department, with the E. I. 
DuPont de Nemours Company, in Wil­
mington, Del-
DOPE ON THE PROM
• Date—February 1.
• Place—Hotel Schenley.
’ Orchestra—Dave Harmon’s.
• Time—9 P. M. to 2 A. M.
• Grand March—10 P. M.
¦_ Supper—12 M.
• Favors—Absolutely.
• Assessment—$9.
• Eligibility—Any man who has at­
tended any college three years,
• Alumni Tickets—At door. 
Student Tickets—Now on sale.
To Help in Whipping' 1924 
Team Into Shape
A deal was recently closed between j 
tiio Athletic Council and Robert N. j 
Waddell which will bring the latter I 
back to Carnegie as an assistant to 
Wally Steffen, advisory coach of the 
football team. Bob, as ho is familiar­
ly known around hero, was assistant 
to Steffen during the seasous of 1921 
and 1922, but last year returned to his 
Alma Mater, Bucknell University, as 
assistant coach. His first attempt at 
coaching was at Bucknell in 1920. )
Bob Waddell was born in Pitts­
burgh and has spent practically all of 
his life here. He graduated from 
Peabody High in 1916. entering Buck­
nell the same year. At Bucknell, Bob 
made quite a name for himself in
Pitt 33, Vanderbilt 31.
Pitt 32, Amliorst 21.
Pitt 31, Geneva 22.
Pitt 35, Allegheny 30.
Pitt -15, Botliauy 33.
Pitt 23, Wost Virginia 25.
Pitt 29, W. and .1. 19.
Pitt 2S, Grovo City 29.
Grove City 42, Amherst 23.
Grove City 34, Waynesburg 13. 
Grovo City 31, Tlilol 26.
Grovo City 22, Geneva 19.
Grove City 36, Westminster 2S. 
Genova 26, Amherst 20.
Genova 2S, Thiol 29.
Geueva 22, W. and J. 33.
Geneva 2S, W. and J. 32.
Geneva 23, Allegheny 25.
Allegheny 33, Amherst 19. 
Allegheny 2S, West Virginia 47. 
Allegheny 21, West Virginia 31.
W. and J. 33, Bethany 13.
W. and J. 24, Bethany IS.
West Virginia Wesleyan 44, Broad- 
dus 14.
West Virginia Wesleyan 27, Fair­
mont College 9.
Westminster 23, Waynesburg 22. 
Westminster 25, Bethany 15.
¡CARNEGIE BEATEN BY 
MAINE IN RIFLE MATCH
Football Schedule 
For 1924 Released
Dayton, Toledo and Western 
Maryland Added
BOB WADDELL
three sports—baseball, basket ball 
and football. In 1918 ho was captain 
of the football team. While at that 
school Waddell made his varsity let­
ter ton times. Not only in athletics 
was Bob a wonder, but in Ills studios 
as well. Ho graduated In tho spring 
of 1920 with high honors, acquiring a 
grade of 92 per cent. Wally Steffen 
considers Waddell ono of tho bright­
est football men in tho country, and 
his coming here is- ballot! with ac­
claim.
At present Bob is ongagod In selling1 
life insurance for the Connecticut 
Life Insuranoo Company. In Pitts­
burgh. Ho is married and resides at 
205 North Dallas av.on.uo, this city, 
¿to is a. member of tho Phi Gamma 
Delta fraternity. HIS brother, Alox, 
graduated from Carnoglo Toch sev­
eral yoars ago.
BRING OUT THE TUXEDO—DUST 
OFF THAT STIFF S/HIRT—JUN­
IOR PROM FRIDAY NIGHT AT 
SCHENLEY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Schonloy tho ovoulng of February 
flratt
Samples of tho favors proved ovon 
hotter than tho eoniinl'ttoo hud antic-, 
ipatod and as one of them, romnrlcod, 
“Goo, I wish I wore a woman to got 
that." Tlioro’s no doubt about it- 
tiliis year’s favors aro going to mark 
an opocli In Prom history at Caruo- 
glo and tho committee feels sorry for 
tho men who will have to try to 
equal them In yoars to como. It just 
can't bci done, so soo Unit that, swoeti 
woman of 'yours Is right In lino when 
they’ro handed out.
Nobody is going to starve oven If 
they haven’t oaten for a weolc for the 
mnnugemont of the Schenley lias 
drawn up a supp'or like the kind you 
read about. The supper will ho 
served at] midnight and will be worth 
tho prlco of the Prom alone.
Novelty and originality are to. ho 
the keynotes of the event and even 
those who hate the very thought of 
formal dress aro going Lo enjoy 
themselves as much as tho perennial 
Prom trotter. Everything is planned 
for Individual enjoyment and no pains 
have been spared in planning the 
best Prom that has ever been held. 
The lass of 1925 is noted for its abil­
ity to put things across and the 
Prom is going to be its crowning 
achievement.
In the third match of the season 
the Plaid riflemen suffered; defeat a| 
tho hands of the University of Maine 
by itlie score of 496 to 492. It was 
of tho usual telographis variety, but« 
was not without its high points.
Tho match opened with a wliiz and 
a bang when: Foster turned in a pos­
sible and Mam ill missed doing tho 
same by tho width of a. hair.. It was 
a. heart-breakor for, with the excep­
tion of that ono pulled! shot, Hamill 
turned in tho prottiest. target of the 
season. Stewart and Good , both 
turned in good targets, ibut thoy were 
minus, two very badly needed points. 
Knapponborgor turned in Ills firs', 
score to count for tho season, a good 
97 but almost a 98. It was not a 
bad showing and with the exams off 
their minds and a. littlti rest, the riilo 
team should have Mttlo trouble with 
tho Gettysburg College Itillo team 
during tho weolc ending February 1(1. 
Tho Individual scoros of tho toam» 
follows:
CARNEGIE -
.T. V. Fostor .......................................100
II. E. Ilamill ..................................... 99
D. M. S to wart ................................... 98
J. C. Good ........................................ .D
C. II. Knapponborgor........................ 97
Total .................................................41)2
MAINE—
V. H. Somers .......................................10Q
C. W. Wixon ........................... 99
li. W. Holt ............................... 00
F. P. Morrison.................................... 09
T. Hois tad ......................................... 09
Total ...................................................mo
ROOM FOR RENT 
“— a ¦
For Ront—A. Hlnglo room for stu­
dent or teacher. Throo minutes walk 
from school. Phono Schonloy 2244-M.
They call that ’girl Spearmint.
Why, is she Wriggly?
No, but she’s always after meals.— 
Rensselaer Polytechnic.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL 1
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Alpha Tau Omega................................................................... 2
Acacia ........................................................................................ 2
Kappa Sigma Rho.................................................................... 2
McGill ......................................................................................... 2
Beta Sigma Rl)o ...................................................................... 2
Delta Upsilon .............,.............................................. 2
Beta Theta Pi ......................................................................... 2
Delta Chi Rho .......................................................................... 2
Team.
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
LEAGUE STANDING
Games.
Scobell .....................................................................:. 2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ............................................... 1
Kappa Sigma .............................................................. 1
Woodlawn .................................................................... 2
Kappa ISpsIlon ............................................................ 2
Delta Phi Delta .......................................................... 2
Sigma Epsilon Phi ..................................................... 2
Iota Sigma Delta ...................................................... 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Theta Xi.................................................................................... 2
Pi Kappa Alpha...................................................................... 1
Welch ....................(r..................................................... 3
Delta Tau Delta.......................................*................. 2
Delta Mu ............................................................................ 2
Boss ........................................................................................... 2
Henderson .............................................................. 2
Sigma Nu................................................................................. 0
w.L.Peti
201.000
201.000
201.000
11.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
02.000
W.L.Pet.
201.000
1¦ 01.000
101.000
11.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
00.000
W.L.Pet.
201.000
101.000
21.flßß
11.500
11.500
02.000
0• 2.000
00.000
Tho place you have been look­
ing for
THE OAKLAND RE8TAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY.KI.OltVICE
You have tried tho REST 
Now try tho BEST.
Como to tho
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Stretching Your 
Income
Only through careful, sys­
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promot­
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu­
tion of their financial prob­
lems.
Your savings and checking 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National BankP i 11 s b ug-jJ h, Pa.
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years’ experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1886. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Flaher, iJr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
Tho schedule for the 1924 varsity 
football campaign has been released 
by Graduate Manager Buddy Ovorond. 
Tho completed program contains niuo 
games, one of which is pending.
The season starts out with Dayton 
University on September 27. Dayton 
will present an interesting lineup, ono 
of their star ground gainers bolng an 
Oriental, and several Iiawallans aro 
Included in the roster. Thiel expects 
to send their usual fighting team to 
Pittsburgh to give the Tartans a 
tough battle in the second game on 
the schedule, while Toledo returns to 
entertain tho local enthusiasts in the 
third.
No comment is necessary on tho 
next two games, but on November 1 
a little known team to Pittsburghers 
will como to town from down in Mary­
land. Western Maryland usually 
ranks among the second raters of the 
Dixie state, but it is understood that 
they aro building a strong aggregation 
in preparation for the coming cam­
paign, and they may give the Tartan 
some real, competition.
Tho date of November 22 is' as yet 
not' ready to be announced, but should 
be made known In the near future. 
Tho location of Notre Dame on the 
schedule has already been commented 
upon. The schedule shapes up as fol­
lows:
¦ FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 1924 *
• Soptembor 27 — Dayton Univor-
slty—Pittsbui-gh.
• October 4—Thiol College—Pitts-
burgh.
• October 11—Toledo University— •>
Pittsburgh. ?>
• October IS—Washington & Jef-
forsoxi—Washington, Pa.
¦ October 25 — Pitt University— <*
Forbes Field, Pittsburgh, Pa. •:*
> November 1—Western Maryland 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
• November 8 — Stato Collogb—
’ Stato Collogo, Pa. *
1 Novombqr 15—-Permanently open. *!*
1 November 22—Ponding.
1 November 29—Nol.ro Damo Uni- •:* 
vorslty- Forbos Flold, Pitta- *1* 
burgh, Pa. -!•
BOKPKE
"the master dmwlngpencil'
WRIGLEYS
. After . Every Meal
Have a paclict in your 
pocket for ever-ready 
refreshment.
Aids digestion.
Allays thirst.
Soothes the throat.
For Quality, Flavor and 
tho Sealed Package, get
Compliments
or
Skibo Inn
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE ! -
I ?
That «10 Bidl)o Inn Is willing to 
«oil out for $150,000?
That the Sun Weekly in featuring 
the brick bungalow being built In In­
dustries?
That Pitt want« our gym to use 
when they play State?
That there are live men out for the 
golf team, and more are needed?
That the “Hut” had to Hliut down 
during the cold «map last week?
That tho Tartan Htaff will bo con­
ducted through' the entire school by 
<3ol. Fairley?
That "Paul” the Gardner, says he 
want« a greenhouse on the cumpus? 
'JWo, not for Freshmen!
That “Bob” Waddell will bo the as- 
alstant football coach?
BOK PEACE PLAN IS
SUBMITTED FOR STUDENT
REFERENDUM, ETC.
(Continued From Page One,)
In order that the vote may be taken 
iiolely upon tlie mérita of the plan, tho 
Policy Committee, with the acquies­
cence of Mr. Bole, liua decided not to 
disclose the anthorahip of the plan 
/until after tho referendum, or early 
in February. Tho identity o£ the' au­
thor ia unknown to tho mombora of 
tho Jury of Award and. the Policy 
Committee, except one delegated 
member.
DETAILS OF THE PLAN
Through the Bole plana aa a whole 
run tlieae dominant curronta: That,
if war 1b lioneatly to be prevented, 
there muat be a right-abouLface on 
tile part of the nations in their atti­
tude toward it; and that by aome pro­
gressive agreement tho manufacture 
and purchase of the munitions of war 
must bo limited or stopped.
That, while no political mechanism 
alone will insure co-operation among 
tho nations, there muat bo some ma­
chinery of co-oporatlon if tho will to 
«¡o-operato is to bo made effective, and 
that mutual counsel among the na­
tions is tho real hope for bringing 
about tho disavowal of war by the 
open avowal of its real causes and 
©pon discussion of thom.
Finally, that' there must be some 
moans of defining, recording, inter­
preting ami devoloping tho law of na­
tions.
Tho Jury of award unanimously se­
lected tho plan given below as tho 
one which, most closely rollootod sev­
eral of those currents.
The Queotlon To Be Voted Upon:
The substantial provisions which 
¦constitute plan Number 1460, Boloctod 
hy the jury of award, and upon which 
tho vote of the American people Is 
.askod; are hereby submitted as fol­
lows:
I. Enter the Purmnnont Court.
That tho United States adhere to 
the Permanent Court of International 
Justice for tbiv reasons and under the 
flomjitiona stated by Secretary Hughes 
atrid President Jiarding in February, 
302a,
IIl. Co-operate With the Longue of 
Nations Without Full Membership 
at Present.
That, without becoming a mombor 
of the Leuguo of Nations ns^al; pres­
ent constituted, the United Ststes gov­
ernment should oxtond Its present co- 
operation with (lie lesguo and pro­
pone participation in the work of llsi 
•nssembly mid ooundll under the fol­
lowing conditions and reservations:
8ofo(junrcllno of Monroe Dootrlne.
I, Tho United States acoopts the 
Coptic of Nations as an instrnmont
FRANK- BROTHERS
l'itili Av(>om> Bool Shop
».HWIHMI'ir(l) mu! -milj Sttwin, New York,
Shoo satisfaction mo^ns 
otyle and worth.
Exhibit Shops in all the larger 
eitles.
Haaren Memorial is 
Not Yet a Reality
Buudy Overend is Still Taking 
Alumni Contributions
Sometime ago tho Carnegie Tartan 
printed an article concerning tho vol- 
lection now being made by tho olllco 
of tho Graduate Manager of Athletics 
with the purppso of erecting in tho 
new gymnaalum a tablet or memorial 
of aome sort In memory of our orat- 
whlle manager, Frank Haaren, who 
Buccumbed last summer at liia home 
In Iowa.
The Graduate Manager reports that 
the reaponao baa not been satisfac­
tory. It undoubtedly 1a becauae the 
plan has not received sulllclent pub­
licity, that tho alumni have not re­
sponded and thorofore wo are now 
running a blank on which you can 
write your name and addreaa and send 
It Into Buddy Overend, who ia In 
charge of tho fund.
The,work of Haaren ,1a too well- 
known to need any explanation from 
our pon, but auroly we, of Carnegie, 
Wall to expreaa our appreciation of 
the work of -the man who wore him­
self out for the sake of tho new gym 
which wo are to Initiate Boon.
Nobody will bo allowed to contrib­
ute more than twenty-live centa, be- 
cauBe it la deaired to make the under­
taking truly representative of the 
spirit of democracy fqr which Car­
negie la famoua.
SCOTTY HENDERSON 
EXPLAINS BLOCKS
New System of Construction 
Has Been Developed by 
Carnegie Firm
ARDENT ALUMNI ASPIR­
ATION ANTICIPATION
At last It has come! That for which 
all Carnegie, and the grads In partic­
ular, have waited these many years, 
is a reality!
One remembers, in the sweet long 
ago, when tho cut was a deep ravine, 
and tho Maggie Murphs wore pigtails 
and ribbons, and hold May-pole dances 
In the Carnegie bowl, somebody tried 
to start something—but failed. The 
movement was tried again and again,, 
and this yoar succeeded!
In the February Issue of the Car­
negie Alumnus you will And a clue to 
tho secret. If you have an "intereBt in 
your Alma Mater, if you want the love 
of Carnegie propagated and perpet­
uated, you cannot afford to miss read­
ing the Alumnus.
of mutual counsel, but It will assumo 
no obligation to intorfero with polit­
ical questions of policy or Internal 
administration of any foreign state.
In uniting Its efforts with those of 
other states for the preservation of 
.pesco and the promotion of the com­
mon welfare, the United States Insists 
upon tho safeguarding of the Monroo 
Doctrine and does not ah an (Ion Its tra­
ditional attitude concerning American 
Independence of the Old World and 
does not consent to submit Its long- 
established policy concerning ques­
tions regarded hy It ss purely Amer­
ican to the recommendation or deci­
sion of other powers,
No Military or Economic Foroe.
ii, That tlu' only kind fo compul­
sion which nations can freely engage 
to apply lo each other In the name of 
Poaao Is that which arises from con- 
formico, from moral judgment, from 
full publicity, and from the power of 
public opinion.
The United States will assumo no 
obligations under Article X In Its 
present form, or under Article XVI In 
Its present form In tho government, 
or in its emended form as now pro­
posed unless In any particular caso 
congress baa authorized such action.
Tho United States proposes that 
Articles X and XVI bo either dropped 
altogether or so amended and Changed 
as to eliminato any suggostlon of a 
general agreement to use coercion for 
obtaining conformity to the pledges of 
the covenant.
No Obligations Under Versailles 
T reaty.
3. That the United States will ac­
cept no responsibilities under the 
Treaty of Versailles unless in any par-
Tho Henderson Corporation of 
which Dr. Hammerschlag Js president 
sends us the following letter:
In reply to the request to solve the 
mystery of the various atructurea 
made up of concrete blocks and slabs 
in the vicinity of the testing labora­
tory, wo wish to Inform you that these 
structures represent the principles in­
corporated in a new system of con­
struction, whoreln live concrete blocks 
and two slabs can be applied to prac­
tically the entire field of construction, 
the majn object being the elimination 
of form work.
The disappearing lumber supply 
with Its mounting costs and the great 
Scarcity and expense of skilled labor 
forces new tactics In the problems 
of construction. These units are de­
signed ao that? their surface grooves 
and recesses, boles, widths, thick­
nesses and lengths are related so that 
the largest possible range of applica­
tion can be accommodated. Not only 
do thoBe units in combination have a 
largo field of use but the individual 
units liaVe quite an extensive sphere 
of adaptability.
These units.will be made in cen­
tralized factories under technical su­
pervision so that a very strong Im­
pervious concrete is obtained. The 
aggregates will be made up of gravel, 
sand, stone, slag, screenings or any 
other satisfactory material found near 
the factories.
An interesting feature In connec­
tion with- the commercial manufac­
ture of those units is the steam cur­
ing under 80 pounds steam pressure 
for 24 hours. These units devejop a 
compression value of almost 5,000 
pounds per square inch in two days. 
Tills information is taken from the 
United States Bureau of. Standards, 
Technical Paper 58. Steam curing 
under this pressure practically dou­
bles the strength of any concrete over 
that exposed to normal conditions 
with the same cement content. Not 
only is there greater strength but a 
moro impervious concrete is procured, 
and stoam curing gives very excellent 
color to the concrete.
The principles Involved in this sys­
tem of construction havo been tested 
¡.out since 1021 by Prof. F. M. MeCul- 
• lough, head of the Civil Engineering 
Department of tl\e Cnrnogle Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh. Very Hat- 
isfactory results were obtained and it 
was found that monolythlc action Is 
obtained In a structure made up of 
units. Furthormore, a structure of 
tills nature can bo mathomatlcally cal­
culated In the same» way that proaont 
concrete Htructures can bo calculated.
This work Is arousing groat Inter­
est whorovor shown and foreign coun­
tries, particularly those that import 
lumber are very much Interostod In 
this radical departuro from the pros- 
ont praotlco. 11 Ih believed that con­
struction work will be greatly simpli­
fied in nil of Its branohoa by tho ovont- 
unl adoption of this ayatom.
Yours truly,
THlil HIDNDliUtSON CORPORATION.
[ THE TELESCOPE
Dress Suits to Rent |y|j
ORDER NOW FOR THE
Onthe
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smlthfleld 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30-5:30
The Daylight Store
Wo are offering some real bargains at this time at our storo. All 
Overcoats at cost. Sweater Coats, Shoop Lined Coats, Rain Coats, 
Mufflers, everything tho latest stylo.
(kune In and see Cor yourself the real money sayings bargains.
CONNORS & JACOBS
OUTFITTERS FOR MEN 
3709 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Get Extra Credits at Home—
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit' they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
furnished on request. ¡Write today.
95 ELLIS HALLÍEÍje UníberSitp of Cijicago
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
tlcular case congroaa baa authomod 
such action.
Leaquc Open to All Nation».
•I. The United Statoa government 
propoaoB that Article I of the Coven­
ant be construed and applied, or, if 
necessary, redrafted, so that admis­
sion to the League shall bo assured 
to ajiy self-governing state that 
wishes to join and that receives the 
favorable vote of two-thirds of tho as­
sembly.
Development of International Law.
5. As a condition of its participa­
tion in the work and counsels of the 
League, the United States asks that 
the assembly arid council consent—or 
obtain authority—to begin collabora­
tion for the revision and development 
of international law, employing for 
this purpose the aid of a commission 
of jurists. This commission would be 
directed to formulate anew existing 
rules of the law of nations, to recon­
cile divergent opinions, to consider 
points hitherto inadequately provided 
for but vital to the maintenance of 
international justice, and in general to 
define the social rights and duties of 
states. The recommendations of the 
commission would be presented from 
time to time, in proper form for con­
sideration, to the assembly as to a 
recommending if not a lawmaking 
body. v
FOOTBALL A LA CARTE
The Pitt game, at the new gym, 
should be attended; by all the alumni 
that can possibly come. It 1J the ful­
fillment of anotiier of those dreams of 
your undergraduate days, and let us 
tell you. It 1» a dream. To be sure 
the building is not yet complete, but 
it is an eye-opener as it stands.
If any of our readers recall an event 
of his undergraduate days, which he 
would like to have called to the at­
tention of his classmates, our "Do You 
Recall” column is open for his use. 
It seems that almost everyone should 
have something of that sort called to 
mind from time to time. This refers 
to events of more than live years ago.
BELLEFIELD CLUB 
CALLS ON FRIENDS
Proposed Memorial for Craig 
Wilson Ne'eds Help of 
Those He Knew
Princeton residents witnessed the 
Yale-Princeton game" at New Haven 
by means of n “Grld-grapli,” a graphic 
scoreboard.
Professor Gooliegan from Arta 
Sebeo! dellvored an address bo’foro 
tho Print Club of Phlladelphla rocent- 
ly on tho subjoct of “Somo Oíd Mus­
tera and tho Costamos of Tlíolr 
Timos.”
The talle was lllustrntod and on- 
thUBlastloally roeeivod by tho* audl- 
onco.
We are still awaiting replies to that 
letter we published last week. Re­
member, silence indicates consent.
We would advise all alumni to look 
thoroughly through the editorial col­
umns of the February issue of The 
Carnegie Alumnus.
Tho Athletic office Informs us that 
the response to the appeal for the 
Haaren Memorial Fund is slow. Sure­
ly 25 cents is not too much for us to 
contribute.
THE NIGHT BEFORE MID-YEARS
’Twas the night before mid-years and 
all tliro’ the town 
Every show-house was crowded, every 
seat weighted down.
The books were stacked up in thé 
bookcase with care,
For their owners -frere watching 
“Blanche Rouge and Dick Dare.” 
But I, being Phi Beta Kappa, gad- 
zooks!
Was fervently grinding and hitting 
the books,
When under the desk there arose 
such a clatter,
I jumped out of the window to see 
what was the matter.
Then glancing back through the win« 
dow with fear,
I saw a strange sight most dishearten­
ing and queer.
A strange little man stoop-shouldered 
and gray,
With a head so enormous it’ seemed 
in his way,
Was throwing my precious books in­
to the fire.
'Od’s blood! but that sight set me boil­
ing with ire!
I climbed in the window and grasped 
his long beard,
He gave hie a glance—'twas so chill­
ing and weird,
I lot liim go quickly and stopped to­
ward the door,
"Come back here,” ho rasped, "One 
little iatop more 
And I’ll fix you so yçu can’t study and 
cram,
I oat greasy grinds with my butter 
and jam!”
I stopped and stood staring with sad- 
dost of looks,
Whllo tho fool kept on talking and 
burning my books.
“A Cnlculus! Ha!” Threw it into 
tho flume,
“A Caesar! A Virgil”—their fate
was tho same.
“A Life of Bill Shakespeare! An
English by Long;’
I say, you young crammer, there's sure 
something wrong,
When a • boy stays at homo from a 
good photo play 
And studies by night as well as by 
day.
It’s.time that a woll-moaning fellow 
lllco me;
Should stop in and toll you how things 
ought to bo.
Perhaps you don’t know that the best 
way to pass 
Your exams and to stand at the head 
of your class,
Is to go to a show on such nights as 
these,
And there all your craving for pleas­
ure appease.
Now do not, young mon, think that I 
am unkind,
But excess of studying weakens the 
mind,
Just look at John Crammer whose ar­
dent delight 
Was to study and burn his bright 
Mazdas all night;
Hte flunked out of college and went 
quite insane,
Too much concentration causes, sofn- 
ing of brain.
Too prevent this calamity liapp’ning 
to you,
I’ve burnt all your books—now I’ll 
burn you up, too.”
He reached out his arms with a sin­
ister smile,
He reached and he reached, fully 
quarter a mile,
His fingers grew long, with a sen­
suous grin,
He let his sharp claws dangle under 
my chin.
I tried to cry out—I did nothing but 
choke,
Then with a shudder I fell—and 
awoke.
I rose from my desk, feeling clammy 
and cold,
My books hold no charm as tlioy used 
to of old,
I So nights during mid-years I spent at 
the show,
I And knocked my exams for a “Ono 
double-Q.*’
—Targumdrop.'
The Bellefield Christian Endeavor 
Society is raising a memorial endow­
ment fund to perpetuate the memory 
and work of the late J. Craig Wilson. 
“Jimmie” was a familiar figure around 
the dorms and numbered many old 
Carnegie men among his friends.
The memorial fund committee is 
using every means possible to reach 
those friends, for most of them will 
want to contribute. The letter print­
ed below is addressed to them. For 
additional „information write the Me­
morial Fund Committee, Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church, Pittsburgh, Pa.
“You knew Craig Wilson. Perhaps 
you knew him better than we did. 
You cannot possibly .have forgotten 
how great a place in his life was oc­
cupied by the young people of the dis­
trict served by the Bellefield Presby­
terian Church, who associated them­
selves with the Bellefield Christian 
Endeavor Society.
Of special interest to him, as you 
know, were the students, attending 
Carnegie and Pitt. One of the dif­
ficulties of the Bellefield C. E. for the 
solution of which we always depended 
upon Craig wras the carrying of the. 
financial end of our work without tax­
ing the students too heavily. We 
have no one Who can adequately fill 
his place in accomplishing this .end, 
so have inaugurated the J. Craig Wil­
son Memorial Fund for Young Peo­
ple’s Work in Bellefield church.
We propose to raise ten thousand 
clollars for a permanent fund, which is 
to be invested by the trustees of the 
church and the interest used for 
young people's work.
' To make this fund truly representa­
tive of Craig’s friends, we are going 
to get four hundred people to en­
deavor to raise twenty-five dollars 
each.
This is a big work. It will provide 
the means by which a large number 
of students will meet the kind dí 
folks they knew at home. Will you 
not help us in it? Let us list you 
among those of Craig’s friends who 
are helping. Join us in raising this 
fund by March 1st.
Make all checks payable to J. Craig 
Wilson Memorial Fund.”
Memorial Fund Committee. 
PlüARCE C. POYNTZ, 
KARNAUGH MILLER,
J. B. ZIMMERMAN.
ONLY A FEW ALUMNI 
WILL SEE PITT GÀME
At the initiation of the new Gym, 
about which we have been dreaming 
and talking for years many of the stu­
dents of by-gone days will wish to be 
present. The rivalry between the two 
Institutions will be keen, especially so 
after the defeat, we administered to 
PJtt last fall.
To such alumni it will be of pri­
mary interest to know that tickets 
are now on sale at the Athletic Office. 
They are reserved, and limited in 
number since there are but three hun­
dred loft. The price is $1.25. Act 
quick or don’t expect to see the bat* 
tlo. This is the flnal dope.
ENGINEERING ASSEMBLY
HEARS H. FOSTER BAIN
(Continued From Page 1) 
dustry with all the economic and so­
cial problems involved. Owing to 
European conditions capital is easily 
available .now*to Chile but the popir 
lation is substantially stationary as to 
numbers and has small bfl^ing’ power 
so that the growth of factories ail'd 
big mining enterprises meets severe 
limitations.” The possible means of 
overcoming these difficulties were dis­
cussed by Dr. Bain.
Director Bain visited Chile to study 
the cost of nitrate production for the 
Department of Commerce and has re­
ported that materially lower prices 
can be made "whenever it is necessary 
in order to maintain the industry aa 
against competition of artificial' ni­
trates though in the meanwhile Chile 
is making good use of the money ob­
tained.
Prior to his appointment as head of 
the Bureau of Mines, Dr. Bain served 
in important capacities in this country 
and in England, as a geologist, a mine 
manager, and an editor. ' From 191S 
to 1921 he was-assistant to the Di- 
j rector of the Bureau of Mines.
OH BOY!
This fall the co-eds of Oregon Agri” 
cultural College gave a dance which 
they managed alpne. A girl’s orches­
tra furnished the inspiring music.
Margaret Morrison 
Graduate Recipient of
Appointment in Commissions 
Office in Beaver Co.
DO YOU RECALL?]
Miss Esther Martin or New Brigh­
ton has recently been appointed clerk 
in the office of the Beaver County 
Commissioners. Miss Martin is a 
graduate of the Social Work Depart­
ment at Carnegie, and in her new ca­
pacity is to. have charge of investiga­
tions in the distribution of outside 
charity aid.
Miss Martin was connected with the 
Beaver County Chapter of the Red 
Cross during the last four years, and 
since the war has assisted the' com­
missioners in investigating cases 
where requests were made for char­
ity.
During 1923, the sum of $127,000 
was spent by Beaver county in aid­
ing the poor, and the need for some­
one to check up and make investiga­
tions of worthy cases, had resulted in 
the appointment of Miss Martin to 
this office.
Colonel Leaf, speaking for the mem­
bers of the board, said it was the 
desire of the commissioners in select­
ing Miss Martin, to assist the needy 
of the county and secure employment 
for those who are able to work.
When the "Bagpipe” was published; 
by students in the College of Indus­
tries as a rival of the. Tartan in 1915? 
The motto of the paper was to “Take 
the Dust Out of Industries”?
When Henry Ford said he was will-' 
ing to reform Sing Sing, 1915?
When the^ Bronze Bust of Andrew 
Carnegie was given by Mr. and Mrs. 
J. H. Reed, to be put in the lobby at 
M. M. C. C. in 1912?
When there was a terrible epidemic 
of mumps on the campus in 1912? The 
report said that even the athletes had 
the disease! We wonder whether the 
co-eds were afflicted also.
ARTS BALL REVIVES
OLD CHINESE FETE
CHANCELLOR ’09 WILL 
SPEAK TO ENGINEERS
Date......................................................1924.
Mr. Clarence Ovorend,
Graduate Manager of Athletics,
Carnegie Institute of Technology,
Pittsburgh, Penna.
I herev$th enclose 25 cents as my contribution to the Fund for 
The Frank H. Haaren Memorial.
Name.............................................................................................
College..............;......................................................Year
Address..................................................................
At the University of Michigan, a 
Freshman newspaper, ¿The Cub, has 
recently made its appearance. The 
Frosh will be allowed to print the pub­
lication for a brief trial period. The 
paper, which is a bright green in 
color, is publisliod every two weeks.
ESSAY ON ENGINEER­
ING EDUCATION
The other night I met a girl,
And she was nifty, very,
Her lips were two neat kissoid3,
Her form a cantenary.
She said she didn’t care to kiss,
But I couldn’t see the harm;
I needed not by brutish strength, 
For I had the lever arm.
My arms just formed a cardioid.
And swept her forni within it,
Her shape will never be the same, 
For I passed the elastic limit!
—Exchange.
Students and alun^ni are invited to 
attend the meeting of the Engineers’ 
Society of Western Pennsylvania, next 
Tuesday, at 8:00 P. M., in the Ha­
waiian room of the William Penn Ho­
tel. The speaker, for the evening will 
be Mr. W. C. Chancellor and the sub­
jet will be “Manufacture and Use of 
Seamless Tubing.”
Mr. Chancellor is a Carnegie grad­
uate, having received his degree in 
metallurgical engineering in 1909. He 
is now Department 'Superintendent, 
Elhvood Works, of the National Tube 
Company at Ellwo’od City, Pa. * An in­
vitation has been received from Mr. 
K. F. Treschow, Secretary of the En­
gineers’ Society, urging visitors to at­
tend the meeting and to participate 
in the discussion.
CARNEGIE RECOGNITION PIN
WILL BE READY BY JUNE
A large number of recognition pin 
designs have been submitted for con­
sideration -from students, alumni, and 
competing companies. Many of these 
designs are of an exquisite pattern 
inldid with the colors of the Plaid and 
a Carnegie feature. With such a large 
number of designs from which to se­
lect, Carnegie men and women should 
have an appropriate and distinctive 
pin.
The judgment will be held soon and 
after the selection has been made, 
Mr. Tillbrook promises to rush the 
pins through and if possible pins for 
the alumni will be available by June. 
Plans are being laid to get the pins 
in large quantities and distribute 
them through the alumni office. The 
'Pins will be gold plated and enameled 
and will cost about a dollar and a 
quarter.
Residenlls of Northampton, Mass., 
are so Interested in the sports of 
‘Simitli College girl's that a toboggan 
slide has been built for them byi vol­
untary subscription. Tho Athletio 
Association of they, college has con­
tributed six nine foot tobaggans 
which can be rented for a small fee.
The formal opening or the tobog­
gan slide was a community affair with 
special features oil the entertainment 
program.
“Quit diving for pennies,” was the 
instruction given by the coach at the 
University of Wisconsin. He wants 
to take no chances of possible charges 
of professionalism. “Irving for pen­
nies is using your swimming knowl­
edge for financial gain,” he cautioned.
(Continued From Page One.) 
work. , Herb lias written and is pro­
ducing the play, “Joy of the Lan­
terns,” and lias helped greatly in 
adopting the period of the ball to suit 
the needs of such a student event. 
Halden has written the music for the 
play which includes music for an or­
chestra which will play on the stage 
as well as for songs of various char­
acters.
Two of the major choruses will be 
"Little Marionettes,” composed of 
eight of the smaller girls of the 
school—chic, petite and vivacious, and 
the “Wall Flower Chorus,” composed 
of six of the larger girls, buxom, 
blithe and debonair. The cast is com­
posed of music and drama students 
who will provide a well-blended mix­
ture of good music and good dancing.
Thè previous work of the drama de­
partment assures that the play will be 
a great feature of the ball and will 
approach such extravagances as 
"Ship Ahoy,” which was given with 
such success several years ago.
The chairman of the social commit­
tee, Miss Helen B. Johnson, encour­
ages all those who have not made 
dates for the ball to speak to her or 
to one of t!he members of her com­
mittee.
The treasury committee wishes to 
warn all those who have not paid 
their dues that their names will be 
posted sometime this week.
BOBBY JONES, LISTED
AS MOST FAMOUS ATHLETE
Special to Cornell Daily Sun.
Cambridge, Mass., Jan. 11—Bobby 
Jones of Atlanta* American open golf 
champion'has been given first place 
on Harvard’s 1923 honor roll of ath­
letes and called the most famous ath­
lete at the university. The honor roll 
includes two men in addition to Jones 
and both are "three letter” men. They 
follow: Percy ‘ Jenkins, Quincy,
Mass., football, baseball and track. .
John W. Hammond, Boston, football, 
baseball and hockey.
REMEMBER “LOVE'S WALTZ"?
JUNIORS
We are reserving for you a 
large number of our collegiate 
Tuxedos for the Prom at
$3.50
The Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PGH. LIFE BLDG. 
Smithfield 0294-J.
/‘The perfect • 
cream in the perfect container”
(This is the way one user describes Williams and the new Hinge-Cap)
Men buy Williams expecting to find 
their main satisfaction in the Hinge- 
Cap. But when they first use the 
cream they get an equally pleasanf 
surprise. The heavier lather, the 
greater thoroughness with which it 
softens the beard, make a hit at once. 
Then, Williams lather lubricates the 
skin so that the razor fairly “glides” 
the hairs off. And last, there’s that 
delightful after-care of the skin. 
Truly, you’ll find that with the Hinge- 
Cap Williams is “miles ahead.” It’s 
a pure cream without coloring matter 
of any kind.
$250 in prizes
For thcbcBT ncntcnccof ten words or less on the vnlueof tho Williams H!nge-Cop, 
\vc oiler the following priies: 1st prize $100; Jtad pfize $50; two 3rd prizes, $‘¿5 each; 
two -1th prizes. 510 each; six5th prizes, S5 euch. Any undergraduate or graduate 
student is eligible, if two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy 
of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at 
midnight March 14,1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. 
Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper only, putting name, ’ 
address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, 
The J. B. Williams Co.,Glastonbury, Conn.
