File No,
®artan
VOL. I., No. 11PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, JAN. 16, 1907PRICE FIVE CENTS
THE FACULTY RECEPTION.PITTSBURG MAY GET GOVERN­
MENT TESTING LABORATORY.
DRAMATIC CLUB.
Listen, my children, and you shall hear 
Of the doings of those whom you all revere,
On the fifteenth of December, in Nine­teen-six ;
Every one who was in the mix Will remember that famous day and year.
To his charming wife quoth our dough­
ty chief,—
“My dear, pray give me your counsel 
wise’Pon a thing which vexes beyond belief
Your liege lord’s mind, and e’en from 
his eyes,
Strikes the soothing hand of the slum­
ber god.
Egad! I envy the man with the hod;For to climb forty feet with a box of 
brick,
I can prove by the slide rule’s not half 
the trick,That has me guessing, and worried 
’most sick.”
“Now here is a problem I cannot 
solve,—
If man from monkey did really 
evolve,—Which first was created, the egg or 
the hen?And whence did pink elephants come and when?
Pardon I crave! my mind seems to 
ramble,And thoughts whirl ’round in such 
awful scrambleThat I’m as much in doubt, before I 
speak,
Of what shall have been said when 
the words are out,
As Sharp, who, I’ve heard, when he’s 
about
To crack a shell, says ‘It’s a riddle
What it will be when on the griddle.’
Hence never with surprise is strickenWhen Omelet proves to be fried 
chicken.”
A Cali for Candidates Is Issued.
There has recently appeared in one 
of Pittsburg’s dailies a report to the effect that President Roosevelt has or­
dered the Government Testing Labor­atory which begun in connection with 
the St. Louis Exposition, to be remov­ed to the Jamestown Exposition and 
thence to Pittsburg, where it will re­
main permanently.
If the report is true the Carnegie 
Tech students will have an excellent opportunity to see, or even make tests 
for the fuel values. The fact is that fuel costs are entering more than ever into the larger problems of industry 
and manufactures, while at the same time engineers and manufacturers are 
watching those costs more closely than formerly. When to the investigation 
of the actual cost of power produced from black coal there comes in many 
places the competition with power 
generated from white coal, the hy­
draulic power from the snow-capped 
mountains, the reason for the study of 
fuels become apparent.
In connection with any study of the 
^ost of power, the engineer must con­
sider not only the actual efficiency of the particular engine to be used, but 
also the local cost of the fuel which is available in that locality. It mat­
ters little that a particular type of in­ternal combustion engine, using liquid 
fuel, has a very high thermal effi­ciency, converting a large percentage 
of the heat into work, if the money 
cost of the liquid fuel is high in the 
place where the motor is to be used.An oil engine might be a most eco­
nomical prime mover in Southern 
Russia, for instance, and less eco­
nomical than a steam engine in Eng­
land. Comparative statements of the 
cost of power from gas, steam, oil, or 
water are now no longep considered of general application, but demand, for 
their intelligent use, the proper addi­
tional information as to fuel costs,
In the student body of the Carnegie 
Technical Schools there is represent­ed nearly every type of man. In the 
Trade Schools we have the industrial. 
In the Schools of Applied Science, the 
scientific; in the Applied Design, the artistic; and in all of our departments 
we have those misplaced souls who 
are representative of the literary and classically inclined type. It is not 
unreasonable then, to1 believe that with this fertile field we should “reap 
a plenteous crop” and find the right men for the right places in a Dramatic 
Club.We may call upon our so-called misplaced “literati” for the writing of 
the book and lyrics of a ylay. We should expect the designing of cos­
tumes and scenery to be taken care 
of by our Department of Applied De­sign. And from the Applied Science 
and Trade Schools we should be able to secure men to typify any character 
necessary.There are those “Missourians,” who 
will ask what function in school life 
a Dramatic Club serves? We can an­
swer: It advertises the school in the right sort of wray by sending forth a 
first-class yearly production; it trains 
men to speak in public and improves 
their presence when they are before an 
audience; it means an organization which by directing its proceeds to­
ward athletics, will save that slowly 
dying department from death.
Enough fellows have already shown 
their interest by mentioning the move­
ment and presenting it in a favorable 
light to their friends. Here is a nu­
cleus of a club, and after consulting Director Hainerschlag and receiving 
his advice, it has been decided to launch forth thus: Post notice in the 
form of a call for all interested men; 
on Feb. 8th each man must present 
himself ready to speak some short 
essay or poem before a committee
(Continued on Page 6){Continued on page 3)(iContinued on Page 3)

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
Hotel Schenley
Estimates
Given 
for 
School
and
Club 
Dinners.
TH EH FACUL YR
— OAKLAND—
Meat Market
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
Meats & Poultry 
PION .STBAG GMH
Both Phones.
Bell Phone 1939 Highland
V­GMUDaG & lSUaMR
Hatters and Furnishers
ifof Trnn ­drntrR AH AH
OPEN EVENINGS.
142 Park-BOTH PHONES-142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss,
HARDWARE and HOUSE 
FURNISHING GOODS..
Mixed Paints, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Furnaces, Tin Sooflng ai:d Job Work promptly done
Improved Midget Gas Furnaces 
PIOe .U.MV ­lADsAH
NOTES.
Walter Adams of Wilkinsburg, Pa., 
was elected Captain of the 1907 Foot­
ball Team. Pete played a strong game 
at full-back last season and is very 
popular with the fellows. He knows 
the game thoroughly and we sincerely 
trust that 1907 will show wonders in 
the foot-ball line here at Tech.
Prof. Keller shaved off his mous­
tache recently. We like him better with it on.
“Gim” Hamnet has taken up his 
work at the schools after a week’s ill­ness.
Albert Henderson of the Civils, en­
tertained the society at his home last 
Saturday evening. Prof. Hokanson 
spoke with his usual characteristic wit.
Heard in Applied Mechanics during 
roll call—“Ulrish, Rudell, Palmer, Fosser, Switz.”
On Jan. 18th, at 7.30 P. M., Mr. Nor­wood, of the Hohman & Maurer Man­
ufacturing Company, will lecture in As­
sembly Hall on “ Technical Thermome­try.” This lecture will be especially 
interesting to the second year men, 
both day and night. It is hoped a 
large number from the student body will be present.
Mr. Devine, of New York, editor of 
“Charity,” spent a day at the schools 
last week, and w'as very favorably im­
pressed. Mr. Devine was sent to San 
Francisco by President Roosevelt after 
the disaster to distribute the Red 
Cross Funds.
Mr. Herbert A. Clark, head of the 
Department of Engineering at the 
Northern Polytechnic Institute, Lon­
don, England, visited schools last Thursday.
On Tuesday, Jan. loth, Prof. Mac 
Lucas, of the Department of English, 
lectured before the Pedagogical Sec­
tion of the Academy of Science and 
Art on the “Life and Work of John 
Locke and His Place in History.”
On Jan. 18th, Mr. Randall, of the 
United States Geological Survey at 
St. Louis, spoke before the Plebe 
Class. Mr. Randall was formerly 
connected with Illinois University as Frofessor of Civil Engineering.
The Pattern Shop has received a 
new grinder of the most up-to-date 
stamp during the week. Mr. Pfouts 
has been putting forth all his efforts 
in trying to have the school buy a 
sand papering machine recently de­
signed and built by Mr. F. E. Foster. 
It is a great labor-saving device.
Mr. Lowe tendered a reception to 
the Mechanicals and Chemicals last 
week. A most enjoyable morning 
was spent. Mr. Connell read a paper
Bell Phone 292 J Schenley
M. H. JONES
—Maker of—
GENTLEMEN’S FINE
GARMENTS
Latest Styles. Prices Extremely Low 
121 OAKLAND AYE.
.. . SHIRTS ...
uh cbg&rK
to give every young man one of ours to 
wear. Our Shirt Sale makes it easy.
McCANDLESS & GORDON CO.
310 X3Ia.rn.oan.oL £t.
ALL TEXT BOOKS USED IN 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
SUPPLIED BY
R. S. Davis & Co. 
441 WOOD STREET
Drawing Instruments, T Squares, 
Triangles, &c.
Telephones : { Ln 2^.57 J Highland 
“TECH” SPECIALTIES AT
THE HOLMES COMPANY 
BOOKMEN, STATIONERS, ENGRAVERS,
6016 PENN AVE., E. E., PITTSBURGH.
on “The Heat Equivalent of Durham 
Tobacco.”
It is rather unfortunate we have to 
state that on three occasions some 
members of the Day School of Applied 
Science have unkindly mussed mate­
rial or actually destroyed things in 
the Paint Department. We are sure 
that the fellows who are guilty will 
not do so again, and we will say it 
was merely thoughtlessness.
The Tartan is very sorry to an­
nounce the accident of “Venus”Felkel, 
’09, on last Monday afternoon. Felkel deserves a lot of praise for the grit he 
showed while he was being treated. 
He has the sympathy of the entire 
school who wish him a speedy recov­
ery.
Mr. Moynighan, of the United States 
Consular service, delivered a stirring 
address before the Plebes on last 
Monday morning.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
^^isjaiai^'ai^lsisiaME®ajaraM5iaia®aa?yaBa\®®ja!SEtaiaiaiaa!araiaiafa(Bisia(a[aiS[3®iaaMaE®ii[^[iaMaiia®ajBjaaj5J5jasiajiiiiU V­lA ,Ss ­ B­DY ­LLSsDMWmm
More than two thousand Oakland people have their accounts here and receive every accommodation consistent with safe banking,
S-A.TTXISra-S TBTJST CO.
Capital, - $800,000.00 Surplus, - #186,700.00
2 PER CENT. ON CHECKING ACCOUNTS.----4 PER CENT. ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
s^Eisri^^isia^faiaaisi^îBiafaffi^ia^iaïasiMSiiaaœaisjaraEfflaaïaEiBjaïaïajBMaiaisjsjsiaiajaiEBaffiMaMaMaraMaMiMSEi'ii
Atwood Pharmacy
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. & Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P, & A. 168 Park
LIBERTY
301 CEAIG ST.
Hockey and Gymnasium Shoes
-AT-
Graeser & Crowley’s
Iroquois Block
Open till 
9.00 P. M.
. . . 3612 
Forbes Street
A NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION 
To Patronize
Ube “tlecb” »arber Sbop 
Cor. Craig and Forbes Sts.
VH .H l­D LsTAD
AN ALTERNATING CURRENT 
DETECTOR.
It is a well-known fact that electric circuits have mostly to be switched 
out, thus interrupting the service, 
whenever the existence of an alter­
nating current is to be ascertained or its intensity measured. An instru­
ment recently constructed called an “applier,” will show the presence of 
alternating currents of any kind, and 
may serve to determine their inten­sity, merely by being applied outside 
the circuit, thus interfering in no way# 
with the service.
This apparatus consists of a* small transformer, the iron core of which 
is divided into two pieces, forming a kind of tongs, the jaws of which are 
opened by a pressure exerted on the 
legs, and are automatically closed 
again as the pressure is removed. To insure a safe magnetic closure, the 
jaws of the tongs should entirely en­circle the conductors. The circuit 
encircled by the back part of the jaws constitutes the primary coil of the transformer, while the secondary coil, 
in the shape of a small bobbin, is sol­
idly fitted to the back bolts of the jaws, being connected to the measuring in­
strument proper by a fine electric ca­ble. The measuring instrument con­
sists of either a telephone or a heat­ing coil instrument, the former being suitable for ascertaining the existence 
of considerably weaker currents than the latter.
Whenever the intensity of a current 
is to be measured, the line should be free from any iron protection. This 
condition is best complied with by ap­
plying the apparatus to safety fuses. 
The apparatus will prove very useful in locating ground connections for 
short circuits.
3714 FORBES ST.OAKLAND. 
PITTSBURG.
GpALU­v l­vsAG
Winter Underwear
5 STYLES, 5 WEIGHTS at 
4O LrnhK u aub1rnhR
{fHOO ­ GsUM
Advance Styles Spring Shirts Arriving.
DRAMATIC CLUB.
(Continued from page 1) 
which will be chosen by some mem­
bers of the Faculty. This committee 
shall select tw’enty men who, in their 
judgment, represent the best material 
for a Dramatic Club. This club shall meet, elect officers and select name. 
All subsequent members will be elect­
ed by the club.The problem of presenting the 1907 
play should then be immediately taken 
up. The book, lyrics and music should be written by Tech men, not necessarily by those who are members of the 
club. Everything should be in l’ead- 
iness for rehearsal at the opening of 
school in September, and during the 
Christmas recess the play should be
pi’oduced at some Pittsburg theater 
and then a trip be taken of perhaps a week’s duration.
Director Hamerschlag is entirely in 
sympathy with the idea and will aid all he can. He says he will endeavor 
to secure the services of two or three men of note in the literary and music­al world to criticise the book and 
music before the play is produced.
Notice will be posted immediately. 
Help the Dramatic Club along.
PITTSBURG MAY GET GOVERNMENT 
TESTING LABORATORY.
(Continued from page 1)
transport charges, and other data con­cerning the locality of use. In this, 
as in other departments of work, the engineer is learning to act as an econ­
omist to the material advantage of 
his clients and the broadening scope 
of his work.
Upon the application of scientific 
methods the commercial success of an 
enterprise will often depend. Form­
erly the business man attempted to 
determine all the points himself, 
sometimes with the _ aid of scientific 
advisers, more frequently with his 
own unaided judgment. To-day the 
engineer does all this and often more 
and his application of the precise 
methods of scientific resarch have es­tablished their superiority in many 
instances.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Official Student Organ Carnegie Technical School
F. E. Foster, ’08.............Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, ’08... .Associate Editor
W. J. Hamilton, ’08 (Night)...................
................................Associate EditorJ. M. Sampson, ’08. .Business Manager
H. P. Fowler, '08..Ass’t Business Mgr 
CORRESPONDENTS.Ada Ramlach.............M. M. C. S. (Day)
Edith Clark...........M. M. C. S. (Night)
J. S, Charles. . .Applied Science (Day) A. F. Stamm. .Applied Science (Night)
Subscription Rates
Yearly.............................................$1.00
Single Copy..............................5 CentsFor Advertising Rates address the 
Business Manager, care Carnegie 
Technical School.
SHOW YOUR COLORS.
Last year the Tech Glee Club gave a 
concert in Carnegie Music Hall, on the 
spur of the moment, as word was received that the school could have the use of 
the hall just three days before the 
concert was to be held. As a conse­
quence of this short notice, the audi­
ence was not very large, but it made 
up in enthusiasm what it lacked in 
numbers.
This year the case is greatly dif­
ferent. The Glee Club is older; there 
are twice as many students in school, 
and ample notice of the concert has 
been given. For the benefit of those 
who did not see last week’s “Taratn,”
I will sav that it is to be held on the 
evening of,Feb. 1st, 1907, in Carnegie 
Music Hall. Every fellow who thinks 
anything at all of his classmates and 
fellow students, of his parents, of his 
best girl, and, in fact, of anyone he 
knows, should make an effort to have 
them all there when the first horn is 
blown. Get up and do your part and 
the Glee Club will do tne rest. Don’t 
forget the girls.---------o---------
OUR ClVILS.
On the night of January 12th, the 
Civil Engineering Society held their 
first meeting of the new term at the 
home of Albert Henderson on Wight- man street. Dr. Hokanson delivered 
a very able talk on the design of the 
various parts of the filtration plant lo­
cated at Aspinwall, Pa. Dr. Thayer 
and Mr .Reed also gave short but in­
teresting talks on engineering sub­
jects. Albert Henderson read a paper 
on the Government location of prop­
erties along the Ohio river, after 
which refreshments were served. 
Everyone came away highly satisfied 
with the evening’s program and its 
time well spent.
NOTICE TO JUNIORS.
Verbatim notes on Industrial Eco­
nomics may be had at a very reason­
able price per lecture upon applica­
tion to Manager of the Tartan.
HAVE PITY ON ME.
1911.
1. On the eve of 19th at a respectable
time,
All Students of the “Tech” fell in line 
To march to their respective places, 
That perhaps would never leave traces.
2. On Black and White, the questionswere placed,
Having little time, we all made haste, 
To perhaps finish the subject for good, 
That in latter days will furnish our 
food.,
3. Acting as spectators, into the
room we strolled,
WThere the examiners’ eyes were being 
rolled.
He was peering over the zealous boys 
That seemed to him as Christmas toys.
4. On one occasion we noticed in the
1 rear
A student shivering from fright or fear, 
Another student who moved in many 
positions,
Recited the following truthful condi­
tions:
“If I should flunk (no other way can
I see),
I hope the examiners will have pity 
on me.”
Howard Tritshler.---------o---------
Owing to faulty construction of the 
constitution of the class of 1911, no 
class meeting will be held this month. 
The constitution calls for a meeting 
on the first Wednesday in the month, 
and there not being any school, is re­sponsible for the loss of a class meet­
ing. It is to be deplored that the new year should be begun under such in­
auspicious conditions, but notwith­
standing a late start, 1911 hopes to 
make the present year a notable epoch 
in school and class history and a stand­
ard for future freshmen night classes.
A number of contributions have 
been sent to the Tartan for which the 
staff is deeply grateful, and it is only 
the presence of a great abundance of 
matter which prevents the appearance 
in this issue.
1911 is very sorry to learn 
that Dr. R. H. Holbrook is unable 
to act as moderator at his class meet­
ings. The great demand on Dr. Hol­
brook’s time and the additional En­
glish class' and the extra work in­
volved as a result are the reasons ad­
vanced for his actions.
The rearrangement of classes is a 
good thing. We know three “bunches” 
of fellows now. We will soon know 
them all.
The “conditions” at school are gen­
erally conceded to be unfavorable.
Try this resolution for the New Year: “I am resolved to buy a Tartan 
every week and read it.”
Can anybody explain the presence of so many brand new watch fobs, scarf pins, etc.?
It may be a little early, but in the 
calling out of candidates for the base 
ball team don't forget the night men.
Try this on your— — self. Make the muscles of your thigh rigid, then 
take a clean pin or needle and drive it into the flesh. It will not pain nor bleed.—E. J. Kirk.
Hess, of 1911, thinks it is time to get some social stunt going.-------o------
SCHEDULE OF INTERSCHOLASTIC
POLO LEAGUE.
Jan. 18—Shadyside vs. Wilkinsburg High.
Jan. 21—Pittsburg College vs. Alle­gheny High.
Jan. 25—E. L. A. vs. Wilkinsburg High.
Jan. 28—Pittsburg High vs. Pitts­
burg College.
Feb. 1—Shadyside vs. Allegheny High.
Feb. 4—Wilkinsburg High vs. Pitts­burg High.
Feb. 8—E. L. • A. vs. Allegheny High.
Feb. 11—Shadyside vs. Pittsburg High.
Feb. 15—E. L. A. vs. Pittsburg 
College.
Feb. 18—Allegheny High vs. Pitts­burg High.
Feb. 22—Shadyside vs. E. L. A.
Feb, 25—Pittsburg College vs. Pitts­burg High.
March 1—Allegheny High vs. Wil­kinsburg High.
March 4—E. L. A. vs. Pittsburg 
High.
March 8—Shadyside vs. Wilkins­
burg High.March 11—Pittsburg College vs. 
Allegheny High.
March 15—Shadyside vs. Pittsburg 
College.March 18—Wilkinsburg vs. Pitts­
burg High.
March 22—Shadyside vs. Allegheny 
High.
March 25—E. L. A. vs. Wilkinsburg 
High.-------o------
An Observation of the Weather as It 
Appeared to Section G-1911.
Cold wave ranged from all parts of the citv, and ending at the Main Cor­
ridor of the Carnegie Tech.
Following this was a colder wave 
about 7.30 to room ilO, which was fol­
lowed by a terrible storm, also an aw­
ful blast of wisdom; about 9.30 the 
storm subsided., and all went peace­
fully home to enjoy a night’s rest to 
prepare, and clothe for the weather of 
Dec. 17 to 19th.J. H. T„
Wireless Telegrapher.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TFATFC5
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM
FITTING
SHOES 
$5.00 - $4.00 - $3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. 
East End.
‘FATTY—THE COP.”
a RESULT
-OF-
AwpATM TAGA­TLV
The Connell-Hughes Water Purifier 
and Aerator The water from this 
apparatus has been proven absolutely 
pure, and is most palatable.
Partial list of installations:
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Union Trust Co.
Mellon s National Bank.
The Liberty Restaurant.
McKennan’s Pharmacy, 431 Market st.
Friebing's Drug Store, 1500 Lincoln 
avenue.
Porter’s Drug Store, N. Highland ave­
nue.
Walker’s Drug Store, Sewicldey.
Huston’s Confectionary Store, Bry­
ant street.
Show Rooms, 509 Wood street.
The Tartan’s mouse has been ill j 
for some time, and rather “off his 
feed,” but about the middle of last; 
week a dainty morsel in the shape of a 
boomerang was seen, or rather heard, j 
near the entrance to the schools, and 
he was enticed to sit up and look 
around and incidentally partake of the | 
nourishment offered. It seems that a j 
request had been made to the Park j 
superintendent for some plants for | 
decorating the schools, and the super- i 
intendent, not knowing exactly ''what 
kind or the number of them desired, 
sent one of his brave grey-coats over 
to our seat of learning to obtain some­
what more definite information. Our 
old friend “Fatty” was chosen to serve 
as errand boy (and jvho ever heard 
of a mouse liking an errand boy), and 
started on his journey to C. T. S. Some 
of the students who had been gambol­
ing on the green in front of the school, 
noticed him coming up the walk, and, 
thinking they were the object of 
“Fatty’s” visit, immediately ran into 
the buildings, closely followed by him 
of the surplus avoirdupois. Upon 
opening the sacred portals, he was 
greeted with maany manifestations of 
pleasurable displeasure, and for some 
fifteen or twenty minutes he had, I 
venture to say, as pleasant (?) a time 
as l did when Butcher’s cat chased me 
from room 304 to room 23. I heard 
some one remark that it would be a 
good stunt for the recipient of the 
above lemon to hereafter carry a large
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughts­
men—Experts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with 
the resources of supply for 
all Drawing and Artists’ Ma­
terials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
SVk GAA VADT,R
For Your Photographs 
Work Unexcelled
O. C. HENRY
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Special Discounts to Students
illuminated sign stating his business, the which would serve as an effective 
flag of truce. Cheese it! Here comes 
that---------cat! So long! !
The largest cargo of iron ore thus 
far carried by a single carrier on the Great Lakes was loaded on the steam­
ship “Henry W. Rogers” at Escanaba, 
Mich., Sept. 18, 1907; the cargo
amounted to 15,081 tons. The vessel 
draws 2I14 feet of water.
---------o---------
We are given to understand that 
quite a number of Tech students wish 
to learn French, German, or Spanish 
sufficiently to be able to understand and speak one of more of these lan­guages. If those interested will either 
write or speak to the business mana­
ger of the Tartan, he will be pleased 
to outline a method which has been proven both efficient and inexpensive.
f******f?
t***f***f******Ï*4**?*
One Thing to Remember
FOR 1907
Buy Candy
­M
« HALLER’S «
Iroquois Block 3618 Forbes Ave.
*
**
?***4*?f4»f?****f
********t
Kaercher’s Drug Store
COR. FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
Sclienley 1456 and 9018-J 303 Park

---------------------------------------------------

6 THE TARTAN
—Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine ®aartnEsis
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MANUFACTURING JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS,---HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AVE. & 8TH ST.---
Er ubr hyr FuJrbK ’9 hyr Lubnr-gr Mr&yH G&y’’5 pgnKH
THE FACULTY RECEPTION.
(Continued from page i) 
Meanwhile, impatient to hear the vast 
And momentous question, which har­
assedThe throbbing brain of her honored 
spouse,Causing the wheels to rumble and 
roar.
She waited and listened, still as a 
mouse;
Waited until he began once more 
To speak in calm and serious vein,
Of that which caused the anxious 
strain;
Until he made it clear and plain 
That what caused him to abstractedly 
muse
Was, how to make the Facultty fuse.
“Now please do not misunderstand 
There is no war within that band ; They’re all united in the strife 
They wage with ignorance that’s rife 
In budding minds of those they teach. 
But,—like members of an army corps 
Wide stretched in ‘far flung battle 
line’Some are unacquaint’, and ’tis a bore 
That these must pass without a sign. 
So this is the task upon my mind,
To diplomatically heal the breach 
And then unite in friendship kind.”
“Fudge!” said Mrs. H—------, with
feminine whoop,
“That’s easy, we’ll do it at one fell 
swoop.
Your army’s scattered? What better 
to do,
Than bring them together in grand review?
That man or woman was never made, 
Who doesn’t enjoy a dress parade. 
Sound the shrill pibroch; rally the 
clans;
Hae music to soothe the savage breast;
And to touch the heart in manly chest 
We’ll play, (on organs which digest), 
A symphony of pots and pans.”
“With tartan plaid of dear old Tech, 
And palms and flowers, we will be­deck
The hallowed walls of Morrison’s halls;
And here and there, with cunning work,
Will fashion nooks wherein may lurk 
Dan Cupid, in soft ambuscade,
To trap unwary youth and maid.
While for sedate and elder men,
We’ll simulate the home-like den;
And stock it well with fine Havana, 
Whose fumes dull thoughts of grim 
manana
While in one room, erstwhile scholas­tic,
Our guests shall trip the light fan­
tastic.
They said “Goodnight!” and retired to 
dream
Of invitations, ream upon ream;
For the “pibroch” now is out of date, 
And messages of love or hate 
Are carried, in more modern way,
By magic square,—the two cent stamp, That’s greater than Aladdin’s lamp, 
Which men of old did rub and scour 
WTien they would move ’steen leagues 
an hour;
If we but lick, and gently stick,And know ’twill get there P. D. Quick.
It was eight by Orbin’s infallible clock 
When the first guest charged the re­
ceiving line;
Close followed by others until all the 
flock,
Had leaped the barrier of icy reserve, 
Had kow-towed and pow-wowed in manner fine;
Not one but Chesterfield, e’en, could 
outshine
And for courtly grace, a medal de­
serve.
It w'as nine by Orbin’s electric clock 
When the band turned up, and started the whirl.
Quick cleared was the floor, as each man look stock 
Then made a wild dash, to secure a 
girl.
Now you must’t tell, if one mentions 
names,—
But the waltz was led by Miss Smith 
and Prof. J—
And then, (but let me whisper it can- 
nily),Came gliding Miss Stutz and Prof. C—.
It was twro after nine by aforesaid 
clock,
WThen William B. Work came under 
the wire;“I don’t care an ohm, how much it 
shock
This crowd, cried he, “for with the as­
sistance
Of fair Miss B—, I’ll o’ercome its re­
sistance.”
But alas! Poor Willie! Disaster dire 
O’ertook him, wiien he,—with careless 
feet,
Short-circuited that human dynamo 
Leet.
A hurry of feet on the winding stair,
A light-hearted laugh, and merry 
shouts
Proclaimed the arrival of Mr. Pfouts; 
For as says MacLucas, “I have na 
doots
Whin I hear sic’ noises ’tis. Mr. 
Pfoots.”
Now I can’t mention all the great 
ones there,
BELLEFI ELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH,
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
Rev. Daniel Russell, D.D., Pastor.
Sunday Services:
9.45 a. m.—Young Men’s Bible Class, 
conducted by W. H. Stevenson.
11.00 a. m.—Preaching—8.00 p. m. 
Students of Carnegie Technical School 
welcome at all services.
10 to 20 PER CENT OFF
ON
Drawing Instruments, Triangles, 
Scales, Slide Rules, T Squares 
and Architect’s Supplies.
Koh-I-Noor Pencils, Erasers, Thumb Tacks.
E.B.Connell.D.J. Spence,
AGENTS FOR
Kurts, Langbein & Schwartz.
Nor the wives and sweethearts, with 
faces bright;
But “among those present” we’re 
pleased to write
Such names as Gibbs, and Trinks, and Bear;
One Charles C. Leeds, and another,— Follows;
Also, Miss Weir, dispenser of shekels,
And worthy George I,—King of the Bellows;
Wurtz, Weidlein and Payne, and Mr. Eckels,
Who all took part in the fun that 
night.
You know the rest. In the books you 
have read
How it ended with a regular spread;
How the Director furnished cake and 
cream,
Of no wish or longing.unsatisfied;
But I ween our host was more grati­
fied
Than the happy'guests. His plan had succeeded
And as each departing one he speeded,
The cordial grasp said, as plain as 
could be,
You’ve earned Carnegie Tech’s highestdegree;
And it takes something more than 
scholarship
To get ‘Bachelor of Good-fellowship.’

---------------------------------------------------

2TH 2EA2ER7
HOME 
of the 
NR2HAGiTveEG2ni 
POLO
1690768
TRACTION RINK"^"
WHERE THE COLLEGE BOYS GO 
Mygbh$09’tbhy un3 prnn ­drntrH 
.UDAGM A‘sUppAC TUDY UD MVA GM­MA
All Car Lines.
EIMER & AMEND
205-ail Third Avenue, New York
Manufacturers and Importers of
Chemicals, Chemical Apparatus,
PHYSICAL APPARATUS, 
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS.
Everything Needed in the Laboratory.
NOTICE TO ARCHITECTS.BANG! ! !
Announcement is made that after ! 
Jan. 18th no instruction will be given, 
and no student will be allowed to ren­
der drawings who has not paid his J 
tuition.
—1910—
Mr. J. J. Miller, the popular first | 
tenor of the Glee Club and member of j 
Class 2-C, is shortly to be married to one of Allegheny’s fair daughters. He 
has received the congratulations of j some of his fellow-students, but we 
take this opportunity of offering him the well wishes of the entire class of i
On Monday last Mr. Felkel, of the 
Plebe class, was finding out for him­
self the action of gunpowder, phos­
phorus and elbow grease, with the re­sult that he is now nursing a very 
badly injured hand. We hope the mishap won’t dampen the ardor of his 
enthusiasm for original research.
---------o---------
Will some one kindly tell us some­thing about our orchestra, or haven’t 
we one?
We would like everyone to keep the idea of a Dramatic Club before their 
mind’s eye. This means everyone, 
day and night schools.
POLO GAMES
EVERY
MONDAY
AND
FRIDAY
EVENINGS.
COMMENTS.
1910.
The men who are employed as 
draftsmen during the day, have com­
plained about the way their examina­tion papers were marked, claiming 
they were given lower marks than the 
men who do not make lines for a 
living, even though they performed all 
problems correctly and turned in good work during the term. It looks as | 
though every one has a hammer for I 
the draftsmen, and it is up to them to 
show some one that even though they I 
are instructors in mechanical drawing, 
they don’t know it all.
What has become of the committee 
appointed by President S'keehan to 
arrange some social diversions during 
the winter? Come, fellows, get a 
move on; the winter will soon be gone 
and nothing accomplished, if you don’t hustle. We are all waiting to pay the 
tax for anything you arrange.
The Society of Section Q is growing 
slowly but surely and something will 
be heard about it soon. The commit­
tee is working silently but effectively 
and a few good things will shortly be 
offered.
Did you see “Fatty—the Cop” sprint­
ing through the park?
Judging from expressions heard in 
the corridors on Monday last, the lec­ture on our consular* service must have been extremely interesting. Many of the students are wondering 
how they would suit Uncle Sammy in 
such a capacity.
We hear there is to be a gay time on Woodlawn avenue next Saturday even­
ing.'
Save your money for a couple of 
tickets to the Glee Club concert. 
---------o---------
THE LAW OF GRAVITY DEFIED.
Miss Selheimer reversed the order 
of things by falling upstairs instead 
of down. Miss Stutz kindly assisted 
her into a better frame of mind by in­
troducing her to the arnica bottle. 
When she was through Miss Selheim­
er looked like the “Morning After.” 
Some of the girls felt sorry for the 
stairs and considered it all a bluff.
“Say, Prof. Thayer, are you a minis­ter?”
Who invited the dog to attend the 
morning lecture?
Who knows anything about the 
Athletic Association?
I suppose every one is going to at­tend the Tech-Interscholastic Hockey
game ?
We hear the Civils are going to New 
Castle next Saturday to show the res­idents of that thriving community how 
things should be done. There used to be women barbers in that town, and 
I’ll bet twenty-three cents against a lemon, that Tingley gets his hair cut.
Is there any reason why “eaves” 
should be spelled “eves,” by a chap 
who pretends (?) not to be a fusser?
Why all this whispering and secrecy 
among the Plebs?
The Sunday afternoon organ recitals 
at Carnegie Music Hall are becoming auite popular with a large number of 
Techmen. Wonder why?
“Keep off the grass,” or “keep on 
the sidewalks!”
How do you like the new books we 
are selling?
---------o---------
NEW BOOKS.
“Feminology.” By Mr. Louis Bee- 
ken.
A collection of Inauguration Spech- 
es. By Exline. Price 23c.
“Horse-Flesh, or What I Don’t Know 
About Equines.” In ten volumes. 
By John Weidlein.
“An Encyclopedia.” By Mr. Charles 
Parsons.
“Fraternities, or What We Know of 
Secret Societies.” By Misses Marcus, McGann and Aylesworth. “Thumbs 
Up.”
“Personal Magnetism, or How to 
Make Yourself Irresistible.” By one 
who knows.—Weick.
“Buttin’ In.” A laughable account 
of the experiences of M’gr Hamilton.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
aiasasaaSôôaa^cÜciJtiSJSaSSPlSSS&SdSS&âW.^DÎlôliil'Di'cliËioilaÜdSIBISJ^H'ëlfSISMSiSiSJcirôi^JfllSiSlSISElSIôiDiiciiËIcllclIiiil^lSfSfSISISlg ’'El rsJ ip I
HOCKEY SHOES I
NONE BETTER 
WE FIT THEM RiGHTGeo. H. Stoebeneri
6227 PENN AVENUE 
6222 FRANKSTOWN AVENUE 1
AGENT . . .
NEWARK SKATE
I THE BEST MADE |_ ra fi
3JSJ3JBjSS3jSMSi3JSi313J3JSi@JSI5i3i5)cliö3ld!5JSjSj3J3I&B £J;Sfi?i3i3|'i3ic!i3IBi3!SiSi3Œ13f3®3EÎS!âISM3i3IBI3MSrS!tSÎ3J3l3JSJSJSElSI3lD]lnîJ3j313J3J
M. M. C. S.
Excerpts from Exam. Papers in Me­
chanical Drawing.
1. In a Mechanical Drawing we 
tell if we are accurate, careful, neat 
and your taste about what you wish 
made.
2. The 'first thing in Mechanical 
Drawing is to have an illustration by 
which one can work out by.
3. Mechanical Drawing is an art 
in itself in knowing how to plane and 
work out exact measurements in illus­
tration.
4. A Mechanical Drawing is a il­
lustrated specification.
5. Mechanical Drawing is a lan­
guage; by this I mean we try to make 
others know of what I was thinking, 
or my ideas.
---------o---------
A girl in the B division (to Mr. 
Sharp)—“What kind of a pudding is 
that?”
Miss Marks—“It’s a plumb-pudding. 
But it didn’t turn out plumb.”
---------o---------
PERSONALS.
Miss Stutz to B’s—“I don’t want 
compositions with”—(and Rowena 
screamed)—on the last line,” leaving 
the rest of the story to the imagina­
tion of the reader.
Miss McKee in Science—“When I 
go into a room where there is too 
much C-02, I always feel as if there 
was something more coming to me.”
The “A” class has a mascot all its 
own—a fine poodle, of which they are 
very proud.
Everyone was very sorry to learn 
of Miss McMullen’s illness. She is 
greatly missed and we hope to have 
her with us sooii again.
One new student has been enrolled— 
Miss Corbould. We are very glad to 
welcome her as a member of the Mar­
garet Morrison School.
Miss Stevenson—“What did the lob­
ster do when it was put into the hot 
water? Did it cry, Mr. Sharp.”
The night cooking class now knows 
the true meaning of “like a boiled lob­
ster.”
Miss Nixon wants to know if cows 
chew the same thing all the time.
Miss Stutz w-anted to see “Mollie’s” 
cud come up—and she did.
Oh! what a happy thought, the way 
they handle milk cans in some sta­
tions in our city.
One of the M. M. C. S. girls emphat­
ically, declared she was not “stuper- 
sitious.”
In an Algebra exam, the B class 
had an enjoyable time because Miss 
Selheimer “had it.”
Miss Selheimer says, “To do it up 
in a hurry” is the only way.
Miss Merrill remarked that in Egypt 
the houses are built on pikes.
Miss Looney inquired if there wasn’t 
to be something “wet” in the plum 
pudding.
Co.,M abt)ieu Electric
Electrical Construction, Repair Work 
and Supplies of Every Description 
6010 CENTER AVENUE
E. E., PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone Highland 172
GOOD THINGS TO EA.T
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Some time ago Prof. Trinks had it on 
janitor. It happened in this way: 
When section “G’-1911, appeared in 
the recitation room, the lights were 
out. A call was made for the Elec­
trician, who came and examined the 
switch. He was puzzled in the whole 
sense of the word. Finally Prof. 
Trinks grasped the idea that perhaps 
the lamps were not tight in their sock­
ets, so he tried his skill on the same, 
and behold the illuminating effect. The 
electrician actually blushed, and hasn’t 
been seen since.
No doubt after Wednesday night, 
which is the final of the exams. All 
will have to take Dr. Pain’s Nervura. 
New York druggists, get busy.
An agent wanted in the Tech schools 
to sell headache powders.
Geo. K. Stevenson & Co.
Highland and Center 
VOL. VI,
Maxwell Wyeth, Pres. Edwin Gilbert, Sec. &Treas.
EDWIN GILBERT & CO.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
1524 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 
Carnegie Technical School, Pittsburg
Will somebody give class 1911 a
fine Xmas present? as no doubt the
Santa Claus will appear to them in 
the form of a ghost pointing in the 
fashion as being guilty—of failing in 
the exams. Stick together, fellow- 
sufferers, we will all no doubt hear 
from Mr. Leete.
Who is the guilty person that named 
Prof. Low in Physics “The Sherlock 
Holmes?” Own up to it, Morrison, as 
we all heard it.
What has happened to John Earl, 
the professional Hockey player? 
Surely he has not forgotten us.
The ones that made good in the
exams should all get together and
help the Salvation Army to give a din­
ner to the poor, as luck does not 
come to every one.
