Campus Chest Opens 
Drive March 28th
&
The time is drawing near when an important student 
project shall begin here at Carnegie Tech. This project is 
usually referred to as the annual Campus Chest drive.
The official opening day of the Campus Chest drive is
Monday, March 28, and is sched-#---------------------
uled to last until Friday, April 8.
Under the able leadership of
Terrie Rudy, the Campus Chest 
committee of Student Congress is«
iming for a successful drive — 
fith your help.
Embarrassing as it may seem, 
it must be admitted that a not un­
common retort of a student asked 
to give to Campus Chest is 
“What’s Campus Chest?” To pre­
vent further embarrassment, Cam­
pus Chest is usually then de­
scribed as being a student charity 
drive uniting the appeals of agen­
cies selected by the students as 
& ?ding funds. When a donation 
made to Campus Chest you 
literally give once and for all. 
Agencies such as United Fund, 
American Cancer Society, and the 
World University Service are 
served by the drive.
How do you fit into the Campus 
Chest drive? The answer, to be 
sure, is obvious. Only through 
your donation can the drive be-
come a success. You may give as 
much as you see fit and any 
amount is appreciated. To avoid 
any inconvenience on your part, 
you may give through a Campus 
Chest solicitor — a fellow student.
Rockets and Satellites
To help carry the drive, a sub­
ject theme was adopted by the 
Campus Chest committee. The 
theme has been given as “Rockets 
and Satellites.” One phase of the 
theme has been described as por­
traying the Campus Chest drive as 
being an attempt to figuratively 
push a Campus Chest in an orbit 
signifying record student parti­
cipation. Your donations are to 
supply the rocket fuel necessary 
to fling the Campus Chest into an 
orbit.
Watch for the Campus Chest 
drive and join your fellow stu­
dents by giving. Let’s all shoot for 
a successful year with Campus 
Chest!
intramural Night To 
Offer Game & Dance
The fifth annual Intramural Night will be held on Fri­
day, March 18. As in the past, there will- be two basketball 
games played with trophies being awarded between the two 
games.
However, unlike other IM*:—--:------------------
i^hts, a dance band will provide
further enjoyment from 9:30 to 
midnight. All in all, Mr. Boyer, 
the intramural supervisor, expects 
this night to be the best he has 
ever sponsored.
In the first game, beginning at 
7:00, the IM Board, dressed in 
basketball uniforms, boots, and 
boxing gloves, will compete 
c^iinst the Independents, the girls’ 
intramural basketball champs. 
Half of the game will be played 
under the girls’ rules and the other 
half under men’s rules. It may be 
the lowest scoring game in Tech 
history.
Championship
In the second game of the night, 
the top two basketball teams in 
school will battle for the 
| championship. It is expected that 
two of these four will be play­
ing: GSIA, KS, ATO, or the Eng­
lishmen. The starting time of this 
game depends on when the first 
| game ends and how long it takes 
to award 24 trophies.
The band playing at the dance 
¡'will be kept secret until you pick 
your Intramural Night pro- 
8wm. During intermission at the 
dance, SAE will be awarded their 
football and volleyball trophies, 
Obelisk, their bowling trophy, the 
basketball champs, their trophy. 
Phil Wicklander, PKT president 
and IM Board president, will also 
[award the annual Phi Kap Joe 
’asch trophy to the varsity foot- 
>all player of the year, Jim Muth.
Student Congress 
Spring Elections 
Drawing Near
Tuesday, April 26, is election 
date for Student Congress repre­
sentatives. All students interested 
should sign up in Dr. Strick’s 
office between March 28 and April 
1.
At the March 9 meeting the 
following business was transacted: 
Dave Mears was chosen next 
y e a r -s homecoming committee 
chairman, the Military Ball bud­
get of $1,200 was approved, and 
the Chess Club was recognized as 
a campus organization for a one 
year probationary period. It was 
urged that students support the 
Thistle and the Campus Chest 
campaign.
Thistle Pictures
Th^ Thistle announces that 
it will re-open its Senior, 
Sorority, and Fraternity sec­
tions so that individuals who 
have not yet had their pic­
tures taken for the yearbook 
may still have them included.
Gimbels will sclieuule sit­
tings for Thistle pictures of 
seniors and fraternity mem­
bers March 18. For reserva­
tions call AT 1-4400, Ext. 414.
Military Ball Queen Candidates
Back Row; Left to Right; Julie Martin, Judy Freeman. Judy Mckee, Barbara Goetz. Ronnie 
Nephew, and Patti Judkoff. Front Row; Left to Right: Cindy Scott. Lynn Gregor, Bonnie Grove, Judr 
Kostura, Bennie McIntosh. Absent: Joyce Claws&n.
Military Ball Queen Candidates Vie 
For Honors At Dance In April
Campus Chest 
Solicitors
There will be a education 
meeting for all Campus Chest 
solicitors of resident students 
in Porter Hall 100, today at 
4:30.
There will also be a meeting 
for all commuter solicitors 
Monday, March 21 in Porter 
Hall 100.
The queen candidates for this year’s annual Military Ball 
will be presented to the student body tomorrow noon at 12:30 
in the Fine Arts Theater.
This presentation of the twelve sorority and dormitory 
sponsored candidates is the pre-* ...............—
liminary to the all-campus, all­
male voting which will take place 
in Web Hall next Tuesday noon.
Finalists
Five finalists will be chosen by 
the all-school balloting. These 
girls will remain in contention for 
the titles of Queen and Honorary 
Regimental Commander of the 
Tech ROTC. The final selection of
CFP Votes To Curl) Future 
Fraternity Hell Week Activities
The Council of Fraternity Presidents has unanimously 
passed a motion concerning hell weeks and hell week activi­
ties which should eliminate to a large extent the public and 
faculty criticisms of these annual events.
The motion may be viewed as a* 
step by the fraternity systemto
turn hell weeks into a period of 
constructive activity for the 
pledges, fraternities, and the com­
munity in general. The motion as 
passed in CFP is:
Whereas the CEP of C.I.T. rec­
ognizes a need to establish defi­
nite regulations concerning the 
help weeks of the individual fra­
ternities of C.I.T.^be it moved that
a. No pledge activities sched­
uled during help weeks by 
C.I.T. fraternities shall seri­
ously interfere with the 
studies or health of the 
pledges.
b. Pledge activities shall in­
clude only projects which.are 
constructive efforts in behalf 
of the fraternities, campus, 
or community.
c. There shall be no help week 
activities held outside the 
chapter houses with the ex­
ception of those deemed ac-
ceptable according to section
b.
d. The help week period of 
C.I.T. fraternities shall be 
confined to the ^riod be­
tween the first and second 
semesters and the first four 
school days of the second se­
mester.
e. Infractions of these regula­
tions shall be handled by
C.F.P. Court.
Improve Situation
By limiting the time of hell 
week activities, keeping them in­
side the chapter houses, and lim­
iting practices which are in them­
selves unconstructive, Tech fra­
ternities have, of their own initi­
ative, done away with a situation 
for which fraternities throughout 
the nation draw the vast majority 
of their criticisms.
As further evidence of a con­
structive attitude towards ‘help 
Thetimtsdr on page 12]
the queen will be made by the 
entire ROTC regiment on Thurs­
day, March 31. The remaining 
four finalists will be members of 
the queen’s court. The announce­
ment of the winning candidate 
will be on Saturnay, April 2, at 
the Military Ball.
The sorority candidates include 
Joyce Clawson, Tri-Delt; Lynn 
Gregor, Sigma Kappa; Patti Jud­
koff, Alpha Epsilon Phi; Judjr 
Kostura, Delta Gamma; Julie 
Martin, Kappa Alpha Theta; Judy 
McKee, Kappa Kappa Gamma; 
and Ronnie Nephew, Chi Omega.
Dorm Candidates
Bonnie Grove, A Tower; Bon­
nie McIntosh, B Tower; Cindy 
Scott, C Tower; Barb Goetz, D 
Tower; and Judy Freeman, Laurel 
Hall, are the respective dorm can­
didates.
Bill LeRoy and his orchestra are 
featured at the Webster Hall 
formal. New authorizations have 
been announced for the military 
dress this year. All cadets in at­
tendance, both basic and advanced 
corps, will wear white shirts and 
black bow ties instead of the usual 
khaki shirt and four-in-hand tie.
No Tartan 
Next Week
Due to mid-semester ex­
aminations, there will be no 
Tartan published next week. 
March 23. The next issue will 
appear Wednesday, March 30.
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
VOLUME 53—NUMBER 18OF TECHNOLOGY
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 1960

---------------------------------------------------

&The &—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, March 16, I960
‘'Hey, Sweetie, how’d you like a new Chevy?Oh, Freddie” (sigh)
‘'The dealer’s got just the model we want, 
Sweetie. Right color, right everything.”Oh, Freddie”(sigh)
In fact he’s got the biggest selection I ever saw. 
No problem at all to find what you want.”Oh, Freddie” (sigh)
‘It’s got that V8 in it I’ve been talking about too. What an engine that is.”Oh, Freddie” (sigh)
“And deal! 
Sweetie, wait’ll 
I tell you the 
deal they’ve 
offered me. This 
is the time to 
buy all right.”“Well, don’t 
just stand 
there, Freddie. 
Go ahead 
and buy it.’
Fraternity Life Offers Long
Lasting Benefits To Members
By Paul Farrell
Recently, the Council of Fraternity Presidents sponsored 
a second semester rush program beginning with an initial 
orientation program in M.M.C.C.
The turnout was small. This could partially be accounted
for by the bad weather on that*----------------------
day. I must say however, that I 
do not believe the meager turn­
out indicates a lack of interest in 
fraternities on the part of the in­
dependents. The formal program 
must have appeared cold and im­
personal. Because of this turnout 
the fraternities are now more 
aware of the independent who for 
varied reasons must be personally 
contacted about the fraternity. To 
these independent individuals I 
address this article.
I could compile a long list of 
the pros and cons about the fra­
ternity system at this point, but 
somehow this analytical approach 
to the fraternity usually fails. In 
dissecting the fraternity into its 
various functions, one often loses 
sight of its essence. I wonder how 
many individuals on campus have 
missed the spirit of the fraternity 
by only looking into certain as­
pects of it.
Just what is this spirit of the 
fraternity and how does it fit into 
the college education?
After Graduation
Let us consider the “outside 
world,” the time after graduation. 
In spite of the stress on individu­
ality today, most people must ex­
press their individualism within 
the many organizations of their 
public and private life. The com­
plex network of organizations 
comprising our present day social 
structure involves increased per­
sonal contact between individuals. 
Preparing for a successful public 
and private life involves more 
than a formal education. A work­
ing ability in the area of human 
relations has become more neces­
sary in our world of The Organi­
zation.
The lever analogy approxi­
mately may be used to describe 
this individual of today. His for­
mal education is the lever arm; 
his knowledge of humans and hu­
man relations, is the force—a force 
that spells success and a deeper 
understanding of himself and 
other men in his public and per­
sonal life. The nature of the fra­
ternity, an organization of indi­
viduals working toward common 
goals, provides many opportuni­
ties for developing this force, op­
portunities not found elsewhere. 
These opportunities can prepare 
the individual for the role in the 
organizations into which he must 
enter upon graduation.
Lasting Advantages
What are the opportunities? 
What are the lasting advantages 
of a fraternity? What are the im­
mediate and particular advan­
tages? In short, what is the fra­
ternity—in relation to you? I 
maintain the essence of the fra­
ternity cannot possibly be com­
municated successfully in a lec­
ture or letter. It is an intagible 
which can only be explained per­
sonally between individuals. I am 
very sincerely concerned with 
communicating the fraternity idea
Delta Skull
Delta Skull, the junior 
men’s activities honorary, is 
in the process of making its 
spring membership call. If 
you are a sophomore man and 
in the top third of your class 
in E&S, Fine Arts, P.M., or 
I.M. and wish to be consider­
ed for membership, mail a 
list of your college activities 
to John P, Crecine, President 
Delta Skill. Beta Theta Pi 
fraternity, 5033 Forbes Ave­
nue.
to the independent. If I can’t ac­
complish this in an article, how 
can I communicate the fraternity 
idea to the independent? I can 
not!
But, if you are an independent 
on the Carnegie Tech campus in- 
terested in the fraternity, mention 
this interest to a fraternity man. 
He will be glad to discuss the fra­
ternity with you and introduce 
you to other fraternity men. Dis­
cover through them the advan­
tages and opportunities of the fra­
ternity. Most important, and I 
emphasize this point, only through 
this personal contact will you 
learn the true meaning of the fra­
ternity and how it can fit into 
your life. Through the individual 
fraternity man you can ,learn the 
answers about fraternity life.
I believe that for you, the in­
dependent male at Carnegie Tech, 
there is a fraternity on campus 
suited to your individual person­
ality. There is a fraternity that 
can give you opportunities to de­
velop your capabilities. I repeat: 
mention your interest- to any fra­
ternity man because he is inter­
ested in you. And if you join a 
fraternity and take advantage of 
its opportunities, l^know your 
years at Carnegie Tech will be­
come more valuable; after college 
your public life will be more suc­
cessful and your personal life 
more meaningful.
Colleges Must 
Expand To 
Meet Future
The February 6, 1960 issue of 
“The Kirlinger Washington Let­
ter” devoted two pages to “the 
college industry” and public 
school business.
According to the report, 1960 
is the first year of soaring attend­
ance due to the birth rate. Now 
enrolled are 3,800,000 with an ex­
pected 6,500,000 in ten years with 
the biggest spurt in 1960.
Due to our fast advancing sys­
tem more high school graduates 
want a college education and bus­
iness requires them in politics—in 
industry—in science—in all life. 
The problem is one of financing 
since it now costs $6,00 to $10,000 
for one student for four years at­
tendance, and it is likely to be 
$9,000 to $15,000 in ten years.
New methods of covering cost 
are arising including scholarships, 
government loans, and bank loans 
on larger scales. One way out is 
represented by donations from 
business. There is also increased 
sentiment for public aid.
The need for financial assist­
ance is also apparent in the grow­
ing needs of high schools and ele­
mentary schools. New local tax 
trends include new taxes on local 
business and higher property as­
sessments. The problem of keep­
ing education at the leve} requir­
ed for national development is a 
mutuq^ problem of the individual 
communities, the states, and the 
federal government, as well as in­
dividual citizens investing in a 
more prosperous future.
WRCT Schedule 9 
600 On Your Dial
Listen to WRCT, 600 on every Tech dial:
Arlene Logioco will announce “Music of the Masters” on
aSunday from 6:00-8:00 p.m., featuring Mozart’s “Symphony 
in C Minor” and Mendelssohn’s “Violin in E Minor.”
Listen to “The Two of Us” with Rene Colen and Karen 
Zolton on Sunday from 5:00 to 6:00 p.m.
On Sunday from 10::00-11:00 p.m. listen to “Rezod and 
Promethius.” o
On Friday, March 18, from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. Barry Roth 
presents a “Wasted Evening with Tom Lehrer.” “Poisoning 
Pigeons in the Park” and others will be played.
WRCT publicity needs YOU.
CaampausaheTHe New
SHOW
fff.
Sm Th« Dinah aweni Ctiwy Show in e»Joi Sunday), BBC-TV—ft* Pat Soon« Cti«vjr Showroom w«*kijr, A6C-TV.gm Condtioninf—Umperatwt«» mad« to ofíeí-tof «H*««th«í comfort. G«< a demoftsU«tio«l
poujcj aueni adrjt
Dri veit—it’s fun-tastic! See your local authorized Chevrolet dealerfor economical transportation
!§

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 16. i960—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pare 3
Invisible porous openings blend fresh air with each 
puff for a milder, cooler, more refreshing smoke.
Salem research creates a revolutionary new cigarette 
paper that makes Salem taste more Springtime-fresh 
than ever! Richer, too. Smoke ref reshed... smoke Salem.
Created by R J. Reynold« T“b,cc0 CoœI>*nT
lbemmdhbmjid lbsmisnjc lbscdthcjn
menthol fresh • rich tobacco taste •modern filter, too
NOW MORE 
THAN EVERrefreshes your taste
Dr. Donald Henderson Is 
Maurice Falk Guest Speaker
Dr. Donald Meiklejohn, Professor of Philosophy at the 
University of Chicago, will be the guest speaker at the next 
Maurice Falk lecture series entitled “Forms of Self-Govern­
ment.”
The lecture, open to the staff,#—----------:--------
students, and the public, will be 
held in Porter Hall 100 at 3:00 
from March 22 to 24 with seminars 
held after each lecture, 4:00 in AH 
246A. Dr. Meiklejohn will speak 
on “Unpopular Government,” “The 
people’s Business and the Peo­
ple’s Schools,” and “The Morality 
o^fî’ublic Discussion.”
Doctorate 
Dr. Meiklejohn received his doc­
torate at Harvard in 1936, and be­
fore assuming his present posi­
tion at the University of Chicago
in 1946, taught at Dartmouth and 
the College of William and Mary.
In addition to his teaching, Dr. 
Meiklejohn has had experience in 
a variety of related activities, in­
cluding moderating television 
broadcasts in the University of 
Chicago Roundtable Series and de­
livering lectures in political the­
ory and civil liberties. He is also 
the author of numerous articles 
and reviews published in profes­
sional journals.
Outdoor Art Festival 
To Be Held In June
The Three Rivers Arts Festival,
I an outdoor presentation of visual 
arts and music, lias been an­
nounced by The American Wind 
[Symphony and the Junior Coun- 
[cil of the Women’s Committee of 
[the department of fine arts, Car- 
Inegie Institute. The Three Rivers 
[Arty Festival is a “first” for the 
|trii?tate area and will be pre­
free to the public at Point 
Park, Pittsburgh, June 9 
12, 1960.
Announcement of preliminary 
has been made jointly by 
Junior Council and by Mr. 
Boudreau, Director of the 
Wind Symphony. The 
of the Three Rivers 
Festival are: 1) to bring the 
of Pittsburgh area art to
the largest possible public; 2) to 
reach people for whom museum 
visiting is not a habit; 3) to pro­
vide a common meeting ground in 
the heart of Pittsburgh for local 
artists and the public; and, 4) to 
utilize the recreational possibili­
ties of the rivers and Point State 
Park. The Three Rivers Arts Fes­
tival gives the district a unique 
opportunity to unite in one place 
painting and music. This is the 
first step toward an annual Arts 
Festival which will present the 
best in the fine and lively arts 
such as poetry, drama, opera and 
the dance, as well as music and 
the visual arts.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival 
will open at Point State Park on 
Thetimtsdr et ujCd 5]
Assembly Schedule
Bishop Wright To Speak
At Tuesday All-Tech Assembly
His Excellency the Most Rev­
erend John J. Wright, Bishop of 
the Diocese of Pittsburgh, will ad­
ders the All-Tech Assembly on 
Tuesday, March 22, on “Some 
Spiritual Reflections On the Space 
Age.”
Bishop Wright was born July 
18, 1909, in Boston. Following his 
ordination in Rome, he served the 
Archdiocese of Boston as Profes­
sor at the Seminary and then as 
secretary to the Archbishop of 
Bofton. He was consecrated Aux­
iliary Bishop of Boston, June 30,
Dr. Clark Speaks 
On Race Problems
Dr. Kenneth B. Clark, Associate 
Professor of Psychology at The 
City College of New York will 
discuss the participation of social 
scientists in social legislation and 
general problems of race relation­
ships at Porter Hall 100, Friday, 
March 25 at 8:00 p.m.
Dr. Clark is recognized as one 
of the country’s outstanding au­
thorities on inter-racial problems. 
He is research director of the 
North Side Center for Child De­
velopment in New York. Dr. Clark 
prepared a report for the Mid- 
Century White House Conference 
on the effects of prejudice and dis­
crimination on personality devel­
opment in children. The research 
was sponsored by the American 
Jewish Congress.
The United States Supreme 
Court cited Dr. Clark’s report in 
its decisions of May, 1954, which 
ruled that laws requiring or per­
mitting racial segregation in pub­
lic educational institutions were 
unconstitutional.
1947. On March 7, 1950, he was 
installed as the first Bishop of the 
newly created Diocese of Worces­
ter. On March 18, 1959, he was in­
stalled as eighth Bishop of Pitts­
burgh.
Bishop Wright is Episcopal Ad­
viser to the Lay Retreat Move­
ment in the United States and to 
the Mariological Society in Amer­
ica. He is the author of books on 
papal social teaching and on Cath­
olic doctrine as well as of many 
magazine articles. He holds hon­
orary degrees from numerous 
American and Canadian Colleges 
and universities and is a member 
of the American Academy of Arts 
and Sciences.
Israel Discussed 
Friday, March 21
On Friday, March 21, at 3:00 
p.m. in Porter Hall 100, Mr. Sim- 
cha Pratt, Consul General of Is­
rael in New York, will speak on 
“Tension Between Israel and Her 
Neighbors.”
Mr. Pratt received his higher 
education at the University of 
Basel and later at the University 
of London where he obtained his 
law degree in 1934. He was called 
to the English Bar in 1937 and is 
a member of the Honourable So­
ciety of the Inner Temple in Lon­
don.
He held the posts of Israel Con­
sul General in Chicago from De­
cember 1953 to August 1957 with 
consular jurisdiction over fifteen 
states in the Middle West and 
Middle South. He assumed his post 
as Consul General of Israel in 
New York in September, 1957.
In May, 1959, Mrs. Golda Meir,
Living Theater 
Premiere
The cast has been announced 
for a new play, “The Connection,” 
which will have its Pittsburgh 
Premiere at the Y.M.H.A. in Oak- 
1 a n d on Thursday evening, 
March 17 at 8:30,
In “The Connection” (a current 
Off-Broadway hit now in its 8th 
month at the Living Theatre in 
New York) playwright Jack Gel- 
ber explains the Beat Genera­
tion’s revolt against conformity as 
the “Beats” search for their own 
truths in a world of Jazz and drug 
addiction.
The cast of “The Connection’* 
includes Jack Price, John Caruso, 
George Romero, Rudolph Ricci, 
James Highes, Leif Ancker, Joe 
Passarello, Pat Macioce, Jerome 
Ferguson, Josie Tutsie and Greg­
ory Kopac, who is also the direc­
tor of the play. A quartet of ac- 
tor-musicians will be composed 
of Scipio Spencer, Jim McAtee, 
Bobby Nicholas and Tom McDan­
iel.
“The Connection” will be pre­
sented at the Y.M.H.A., Belle- 
field Ave., Oakland on Thursday, 
March 17; Saturday, March 19; 
and Sunday, March 20. Tickets 
for “The Connection” may be re­
served at Gimbel’s downtown 
store or they may be purchased 
at the Y.M.H.A.
Foreign Minister of Israel, con­
ferred the personal rank of Minis­
ter Plenipotentiary upon Mr. 
Pratt. In August 1959 Mr. Pratt 
was appointed as a member of the 
Israel Delegation to the Four­
teenth Session of the General As­
sembly of the United Nations.

---------------------------------------------------

Page, 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, March 16, 196«
Editorial
.Good Instructors—Rare Finds
What qualities make certain instructors effective? What makes other failures as peda­
gogues? What do good teachers think of teaching? Good questions, these. Questions which 
I have been asking,myself for some time, and questions which almost every student asks 
himself at some time in his carrer.
The instructor who cares little about his subject or students is truly disgusting, 
whereas the instructor who has great interest in and knowledge of his subject, but who 
cannot transfer this enthusiasm and understanding to others is painfully pathetic. Both 
types managed to kill'the thirst for knowledge that resides in even the most intellectual 
curious students.
The Good Instructor
But, lo the good instructor! The,one who has that rare ability to stimuplate even 
the dullest of his students. To his better students, his class is mere ecstacy. The worth of 
such an instructor is almost inestimable, the good and intellectual progress he can create 
is almost unlimited. In this day and age wThen teachers and instructors are needed at all 
educational levels, good instructors stand out amid an increasing background of poorly- 
trained, poorly-placed, and most important, incapable people in the education field.
The qualities of great instructor are difficult to list indeed. Few indeed are so naive 
as to claim that the amount of formal education alone is the determinant of an instructor’s-success. Frequently one meets his better teachers among graduate students, or even among 
his own classmates, and some his poorest among full professors and the like. The ideal 
scholar is not the ideal teacher. Historically scholars created grades and degrees for the 
most part to insure the preservation of their position among the elite of the intellectual 
society. Today degrees are necessary before anyone can teach in a college. Perhaps this 
selection scheme is not the best and passes oyer many potentially outstanding instructors. 
It seems that an understanding of the subject that is being taught is a necessary but far 
from sufficient item in the equipment bag of a good instructor.
A second and equally important thing is a simple and sincere care or concern on 
behalf of their students. It is surprising and shocking to notice the large number of in­
structors who seem to lack this simple trait. Perhaps some of these inwardly care, but 
choose to erect an outward appearance of coldness and a refusal to help those who ask, 
believing that their students will work harder and strive more vigorously than otherwise. 
However, this theory that instructors should be opporessors is false, for the results it 
yields are negative.
In addition to these basic qualities, a good instructor has to be somewhat of an arti- 
sian. His lectures and work are creative, but in a different sense than in painting or writ­
ing. Teaching is a two way creation with the students contributing their share. A suc­
cessful teacher must have a little ham or actor in him to enable him to use all sorts of 
devices to get his material across with proper emphasis. This is not sugar coating but an 
important part of the educational process.
He has to be challanged by his students and Consciously evaluate his performance 
and effectiveness by the prograss of his students. A good instructor gains enjoyment in 
witching his students grow in their years at college, enter in as mere high school students 
and leaving as professional individuals.
Present System
However, when we look at the system currently in practice in colleges and univer­
sities throughout the land, we see that emphasis is not placed upon good instruction. In­
stead of rewarding faculty according to their success as instructors, they are rewarded in 
proportion to the papers they write and research they perform. Good instructors who real­
ize that teaching takes more than a few hours a week suffer under this setup. At some 
schools the emphasis is upon the instructors’ individual production is so great that the qual­
ity of instruction that'is offered is visibly reduced. Maybe someday colleges and univer­
sities will find a scheme which will place greater emphasis upon good instruction without 
sacrificing the great progress and work that is done at universities and colleges. J.D.S.
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by George B. Spehin
Film
‘'Hey,Sw,
MilMit
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
&Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm sdidrhaw nm gpoohuaj
cplhjdll bajaCdimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm .dd yTodlfdiC
gdvtjT Moall ,tleaCd ,ahT ae 2heelfpiCw8 2am
-d,idldjedT #ti jaehtjao aTudiehlhjC fF Aaehtjao yTudiehlhjCm Ujv
ylltvhaed &Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm RiajS sm caotw
yTudiehlhjC bajaCdi mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm bhodl «toajTdi
Ad—l &Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm saj Atet,tjotl
yllhleaje Ad—l &Thetimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm 2who sardl
g,tiel &Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm MwtvS EtTuaiSa
Mt,F &Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm baiF yjj bdoetj
­aktte &Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm“mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm shr Wwaodj
2wtetCia,wF &Theti mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm gedud 2peraj
Features Editor—Georgia White, Assistant Business Manager— 
Mike Balsam, Secretary—Audrey Dolan, Circulation Manager— Bob 
Miller, Transportation—Bob Gregory.
News Staff—George Logan, Maxine Brown, Vince Freund, Cindy 
Scott, Carla Blank, Andrea Nether, Janice Engeman, Dave Pearson, 
Elaine Grumer, Pat Murray.
Advertising Staff — Joseph Yevich, Allan Kullen, Harvey Berlin.
Sports Staff—John Scongo, Mike Berman, Denny Ross, Sherm 
Shottiner, Bob Reber, Bob Miller, Joe Olfield, Glenn Klepac, Charley 
DeVaux, Bob Walker, Joe Lang.
Copy Staff — Janis Geisler, Judy Slye, Pattie Plate, Maureen 
Marks, Spence Anderson. Natalie Selkovits, Ellen Moskal. 
Circulation Staff—Pete Kost.
cjCetter
Do Ole
ydrmien
Chivalry
Chivalry at Tech is not dead. I 
found this out during the recent 
stretch of bad weather. It never 
failed whenever I pulled into the 
parking lot behind Margaret Mor­
rison, I got stuck in the snow and 
like the helpless female I am, 
there wasn’t much I could do 
about the situation. Just as tears 
were about to flow, the Tech gen­
try (knights sent to help a lady 
in distress) took over and either 
pushed or rocked my car out of 
thesnow.
I’m sure I’m not the only one 
who has been helped by these gal­
lant fellows and I just want to 
say a big Thanks to all of the good 
samaritans.
Sincerely,
Carole Wolsh
P.S. Who’s supposed to clean 
the parking lots?
We have always been intrigued by the plays of Shaw, 
but none of his works has yet had the profound and personal 
effect that did this passage from “Man and Superman;”
Tanner: What about Tavy?
Ann: Tavy will never marry. Haven’t you noticed th.^ 
that sort of man never marries?
Tanner: What! A man who idolizes love! Who sees noth­
ing in nature but romantic scenery for love duets! 
Tavy, the chivalrous, the faithful, the tender heart­
ed and true! Tavy never marry? Why, he was born 
to be sw’ept off his feet by the first pale blue eyes 
he meets in the street.
£Ann: Yes, I know. All the same, Jack, men like that al­
ways live in comfortable bachelor lodgings and are 
adored by their land ladies, and never get married.
Tanner: How horribly true. It has been staring me in 
the face all of my life, and I never saw it before.
Shaw’s thesis is simple. Tavy, a young man who searches 
and believes for the ideal in love; will, by the same token, 
never find it. $
Drive of Life
After letting this theory of Shaw’s settle for a while, w7e 
became increasingly aware that it was possible to draw the 
character of Tavy and ours together as one. For it cannot be 
denied that we have and are still desperately searching for 
the ideal, chivalric, and romantic love experience. Here then 
is the major vehicle which drives a life: romanticism.
fWhat does love mean? No better answer could be reach­
ed than to see the ideal of love in a movie. Impossible as it 
may first sound, the motion picture has served as a basis 
for many guiding ideals and values, and the ideal of love is 
no exception. The love which we seek is thrilling and is an 
experience not to be missed: it is the first quivering kiss of 
the shy, .but thrilled Anne Frank of “Diary of Anne Frank.” 
Love is sincere; it is a ‘‘Summer of Happiness’ and a corbie 
who bathe in the nude, yet are strangely cleansed and sancti­
fied by the affairs. Yes, love is a beautiful experience that 
lasts forever: it is a scene of two shadows dancing across a 
serene lake in “Sleeping Beauty,” and then moving to the 
heavens on lilting pink clouds of happiness. Here is where 
the search will end, if mortals may see such satisfaction.
Ideal of Love
Perhaps the love ideal is not a practical comparison to 
something as false and intense as a movie. Maybe the i(l Jal 
of love is meant only to dream about; watched, as one would 
watch a movie. Maybe the ideal of love does not exist. The 
moment we try to physically participate in a movie by touch­
ing the screen, the beautiful illusion that is, would be de­
stroyed by the shadows of human presence. Perhaps it is this 
same shadow of reality that blackens the pink clouds of ideal 
love, and therefore making it unreal, truly untouched, and 
existing only in the imagination of those who hope to dream 
as Peter Pan. $$
Perhaps by believing in a love so ideal, the dream will 
only remain in the imagination. Maybe we are Tavy in “Man 
and Superman,” searching so desperately for something so 
beautiful, but never finding it, just living a pleasant, but 
hopeless, make-believe world. If this is so, our lives will be­
come characteristic of that movie film with the perfect ideal. 
It travels from theatre to theatre in a case broken and scared 
by misuse; and will surely stay in some places longer than 
others, but can never stay in the same place forever. Let us 
hope that we will not lead a life like the one Shaw predicted, 
for without the fulfillment of ideal love, we would be a mo­
tion picture film without its projector.
Inanimate, I would be as thin and transparent as cold] 
celluloid.
’2ihjedT ewitpCw vtpiedlF t# ?bhvSdF”l naTH alltvhaedlm
OwtrY2deia 2itTpvehtjl8 UjvmL
1950,

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday» March 1«. 196«—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pace I
P Made only by Eaton
EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND 
Typewriter Paper
EATON PAPER CORPORATION PITTSFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS
Festival—‘Patterns’ To Appear 
On Campus This Way
Tech’s literary magazine, “Patterns,” will appear on 
campus for the first time on May 1. Between now and that 
time, the staff is accepting material for publication.
“Patterns” is to be a literature-arts publication, render­
ing the finest art and literature* 
available from the student body of
Carnegie Tech. The publication 
will be a medium for One student 
to speak to another with words, 
paintings and photography.
The staff, selected by Mortar 
Board, has been in full operation 
since February 4, 1960. To date, 
the magazine is not an official in­
stitution of the campus but should 
it prove well indicated, will be ir> 
time.
tectural projects.
“Patterns,” since It is still on a 
trial basis, receives no funds for 
publication other than those funds 
it can furnish by itself. It is 
financially independent. The first 
issue is being financed by ads and 
subscriptions (See order blank on 
page 12). Why don’t you help a 
worthwhile effort and also help 
yourself to enjoyment by buying a 
subscription to Patterns?
Wanted
Material for the first issue is 
now being taken. Why don’t you 
submit your work? Here is what 
is wanted: 1) Poetry, no longer 
than two typewritten pages. 2) 
Short stories, essays, and dia­
logues, both fiction and non-fic­
tion, no longer than eight type­
written pages. 3) Sketches and 
drawings, inside pages. 4) Cover 
designs, no specified colors. 5) 
Interpretive photography or pho­
tographs of sculpture and archi-
Thistle Orders
A Thistle representative 
will be in Webb Hall Tues­
days and Thursdays from 
12:30 to 1:30 to take orders 
for the 1960 yearbook. Order 
envelopes have also been 
placed at convenient locations 
on eämpus for your nse in 
ordering: a Thistle. Buy yours 
now!
rcontinwed vneo ujCd 3]
Thursday, June 9 at 6:00 p.m. with 
an art exhibition and a special 
performance by the American 
Wind Symphony conducted by Mr. 
Robert Boudreau. The Festival 
will remain open free to the pub­
lic daily from 11:00 a.m. until 
10:00 p.m. on June 10 and 11, and 
from 12:00 noon until 10:00 p.to. 
on June 12.
The American Wind Symphony 
has captured the imagination of 
thousands in its past seasons. Dur­
ing the opening night of the Fes­
tival it will play background mu­
sic from its floating stage. On 
Sunday, June 12, it wll open its 
regular season with an all-Mex­
ican program.
The idea of an outdoor art show 
is not -new, although this will be 
the first such program to take 
place in Pittsburgh. The Junior 
Council has been studying for 
some time successful outdoor ex-M h vhibitions given elsewhere. Plans 
for the local show have been de­
veloped along the lines of the very 
popular Boston Arts Festival.
NOT A SIGN OF A SLIP-UP!
Typing errors disappear like magic when you use Eaton’a 
Corrasable Bond. Never a trace of the word that was 
erased; errors can be flicked off Corrasable’s special surface 
with an ordinary pencil eraser. Saves re-typing, time and 
money. And the sparkling new whiteness gives all typing 
a new brilliance. You can’t make a mistake getting 
Eaton’s Corrasable. (Rhymes with erasable.)
,jiet28 lennj8j-cd #etr m8 
j&jmcj-cd mt cmCwiF odrmso, wdj&A 
jtr etmet 8Umt RdmCwi8M pt 
het&dtmdti S««—8wddi ujhUdi8 
jtr E««—8wddi ndjo -e­d8M k 
#dnU8wmnd “AudRnmidn Wjudn, 
-jhUdr -A iwd vjoes8 
,jiet tjodM
Y Forums
/•^Religious Drama, old and mod- 
anh, will be discussed in a series 
of two forums sponsored bv the 
YMCA and YWCA.
At the first, Thursday, March 
24 at 4:30 at the Union, Mrs. 
Elizabeth Kimberly, associate pro­
fessor of Drama and assistant to 
the head of the drama department, 
will speak on the history and 
significance of religious drama, us­
ing possibly.some readings and re­
adings, with opportunity for dis- 
STssion and questions. At the sec­
ond in the series, Thursday, 
March 31, at 4:30, parts of two 
selected plays will be read and 
analyzed by those attending the 
forum. All are invited.
Playhouse
The production of “A Midsum­
mer Night’s Dream’’ at the Play­
house is now open to any Car- 
®gie Tech student for $1 Mon­
day through Friday nights. The 
performance schedule for this 
production is as follows: On Mon­
day, Tuesday, and Wednesday, the 
play starts at 7:30 and on Thurs­
day, Friday, and Saturday at 8:30.*
Citcom Clan
The CCC is having a lodge par- 
this weekend at Calhoun Lodge 
amidst the scenic beauty of the 
valley of the rushing Calhoun 
Creek.
The group will meet at the 
Union to leave Saturday, March 
19, at 7:45. Members and non­
members are all welcome. Come 
and bring your date.
Y-Services
Students interested in a social 
service project at the Pennsyl­
vania Training School at Mor- 
ganza are invited to come to a 
meeting of the YMCA and YWCA 
Thursday, March 17, at ’iwd Union 
to make plans for the kind of pro­
gram to be given and to plan for 
transportation to Morganza. The 
first project will be conducted on 
Saturday afternoon, March 26, at 
Morganza. All those hoping to go 
on the project are expected to at­
tend the Thursday planning ses­
sion on the 17.
WAA
W.A.A. is sponsoring a life sav­
ing course during the last, quarter 
of this semester. Classes will be 
conducted every Tuesday and 
Wednesday at 4:30. Any girls who 
are interested in earning more 
points in W.A.A. and want life 
saving instruction are urged to 
sign up in the women’s gym 
>office.
Engineering Theater
On Tuesday, March 22, at 12:30 
Engineering Theater will present 
a color movie entitled “No 
Trouble -at All.” The film shows 
an unusual industrial story: How 
roller bearings are made to ultra 
precise specifications for industry 
under special conditions such as 
dust-free rooms. The films are 
shown in Porter Hall 100.
Next Tuesday, March 29, an ex­
citing color film about space ex­
ploration, “The Big Reach,” will 
be shown.
At left, John Bell explains a telephone training device to Miss Carolyn Dent of the Orlando office. At 
right, he and banker William Dial discuss the local United Fund Drive, in which both were active.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
I
“The telephone company really 
helps you grow with your job"
John T. Bell majored in History and Eco­
nomics at the University of Georgia. On 
graduating in June, 1957, he joined the 
Southern Bell Telephone Company.
Today—less than three years later —he * 
is a Public Office Manager for the com­
pany at Orlando, Florida. His office serves 
50,000 telephone accounts and handles 
more than a million dollars’ worth of 
revenue every month.
John says: “I chose a telephone career 
over a number of others because I was 
impressed by the company’s Management 
Training Program and the opportunities 
offered for rapid advancement. It was the 
best decision I ever made.”
John got his initial training at Jackson­
ville and {)aytona Beach, where rotational 
assignments familiarized him with over­
all company operations. Then he trans­
ferred to Orlando, where he trained as a
business office representative, attended an 
instructor’s school, and then taught classes 
himself for several months.
Dealing with people —his “first love”— 
is John’s main job as Public Office Manag­
er. Besides handling personnel and other 
administrative duties in his office, he 
makes many customer contacts in and out 
of the office. “I’m kept busy giving talks 
about the company at meetings of busi­
ness and civic groups,” he says. “Also. 
I work closely with leading citizens on 
various civic projects. It’s mighty satis­
fying, and I feel it’s making a better man­
ager of me. The telephone company really 
helps you grow with your job,”
* * *
Why not look into career opportunities 
for Aes in the Bell Telephone Companies? 
See the Bell interviewer when he visits 
your campus—and read the Bell Telephone 
booklet filed in your Placement Office.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa«« ft—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, March 16, 196«
^CMINE
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Editors ................Mary Alice Peterson and Eleanor Ivvinski
Professor McKee 
To Be Honored
Professor McKee will be an honored guest at the annual 
Evening Student Council Banquet, May 7th.
Professor Harry Love McKee is now in his 49th year of 
instructing at Carnegie. Graduating as a member of the 
Charter Class of 1908, he was*
employed with the Westinghouse 
Machine Company until 1911 when 
he joined the Carnegie faculty as 
an instructor in the works man­
agement department of the School 
of Applied Industries.
In 1919 he became an assistant 
professor and an associate pro­
fessor in 1923. During the period 
from 1931 to 1944 he supervised 
the evening vocational courses in 
the Department of Shops. Pro­
fessor McKee taught Engineering 
Drawing and Descriptive Geom^ 
etry from 1944 until his partial 
retirement in 1953, when he dis­
continued day time teaching, but 
continued his services in the even­
ing school.
maintained that his work at Car­
negie since his partial retirement 
has kept him young and energetic 
in mind and spirit in spite of his 
78 years.
We at Carnegie feel proud and 
fortunate to claim Professor Mc­
Kee as a teacher and friend, for it 
is people of this caliber that de- 
velope mature as well as educated 
students here at Carnegie.
Night Council 
Lowers Budget
The results of the study of the 
budget committee were presented 
to Evening Student Council at the 
March 6 meeting. Council approv­
ed the recommendations to reduce 
expenses by lower allotments for 
all social activities and elimination 
of two major events.
The Insignia Award Banquet 
traditionally held each fall for 
Council members will not be held. 
Instead, Insignia Awards will be 
made at the Evening Student Ban­
quet on May 7. In addition, the 
second tea for women students 
scheduled for the second semester 
will be discontinued. Allotments 
for the worker’s picnic, the spring 
banquet, and fall women’s tea 
were reduced.
Reduction
A drastic reduction will be at­
tempted in the production of the 
Handbook. It will be distributed at 
the first registration only and un­
necessary material will be elim­
inated wherever possible. Vic 
Sabol was appointed chairman of 
a committee to study the revision 
of the Handbook. Fred Ackerman 
and Mary Alice Peterson were ap­
pointed to assist.
The curtailments approved by 
Council were deemed necessary 
in order not to exceed the budget 
allotted Council.
Student Banquet 
To Be Held 
On May 7
The Evening Student Banquet 
scheduled for 6 p.m. May 7, at Co­
lonial Manor is receiving the 
primary attention of Evening Stu­
dent Council at the present time.
At a meeting Sunday, March 6, 
details of the banquet were out­
lined by Jim Morrisard, banquet 
chairman. Qr. Robert S. Ramsay 
will be toastmaster, and Mr. T. K. 
Jacob, Vice President of Auburn 
Engineering, will be speaker. An 
effort will be made to have the 
tickets available for sale to stu­
dents before the end of March. 
Price will be $3.75 per person.
Lenten Series 
Continuing
On Sunday, March 20, the Eve­
ning School Newman Club will 
sponsor part three of its Lenten 
series.
The speaker this week will be 
Father Brice Englesby, a Passion- . 
ist Priest; his topic — “Sever! . 
Last Words." The program will 
begin with the recitation of the 
Rosary at 7:30 at Cardinal New­
man Hall, 125 N. Craig Street, ad­
jacent to St. Paul’s Cathedral.
No Tartan 
March 23
— YOUR Yearbook
atmosphere
Professor McKee, during his 
many years at Carnegie has con­
tinually made Carnegie’s inter­
ests his main concern. Students, 
especially those in the evening 
classes, appreciate his efforts not 
only as a teacher but also as a 
friend. Professor McKee has
.j 8snnestrmtC en udn&jrmtC mtvcsdthd
There are several prevailing atmos­
pheres at GPL. The working atmos­
phere is thoroughly professional. 
Management is by engineers who 
understand the engineer’s goals, 
ambitions and working preferences. 
GPL engineers work in small groups, 
which encourage original contribu­
tions from every individual.
The other atmosphere at GPL in­
volves the physical —the modern 
buildings and equipment, the excel­
lent research and development facili­
ties. These include an Environmental 
Test Lab, a Flight Test Section 
equipped with jet and conventional 
aircraft, and model shops for both 
formal prototype and informal 
experimental work. There is also a 
modern library of more than 2500 
volumes. GPL is situated on 69 
estate-like acres less than an hour 
from New York City, in residential 
Pleasantville in Westchester County.
At GPL you will have full opportun­
ity to select the work of greatest 
interest to you, and you may choose 
to accept a direct assignment in that 
area, or participate .in GPL’s train­
ing program to broaden your engi­
neering understanding.
These are some of the projects on 
which you might eventually work:
Air Traffic Control. GPL has a
prominent role in the development 
of'digital computer systems and 
devices for safe, efficient air naviga­
tion and traffic control
Advanced Radar. GPL is the
leading designer and builder of 
Doppler navigation systems, and is 
actively involved with terrain- 
clearance, missile guidance, and 
other radar system applications, 
both military and commercial.
Research. Advanced studies art 
underway at GPL on such project# 
as infrared techniques, Maser am­
plifiers, nuclear magnetic resonance, 
and other classified devices.
Industrial TV. GPL is an out­
standing developer and producer of 
broadcast and closed-circuit TV 
devices .and systems, for military 
and commercial applications.
There are excellent career openings 
for EEs, MEs, Mathematics and 
Physics majors. ^
?W”H8 ndund8dtijim&d &emr &m8mi
April 6
GPL DIVISIONep
GENERAL PRECISION
GENERAL PRECISION LABORATORY, 03 Bedford Road, Pleasantville, New York
5518 Walnut St. 
MU. 2-1901
? NOW*
SHADYSIDE
THEATRE

---------------------------------------------------

WdTjdlTaF8 baivw !I8 !NI1*My-A&:U& Oy-OyA*2a^d 9
Glen Krause Exhibits 
At Hewlett Gallery
Paintings and prints by the American artist Glen Krause 
will be exhibited in the Hewlett Gallery at Carnegie Tech 
from March 14 to April 1.
£* His work is characterized by the use of broad areas of 
watercolor and elements of draw-* 
jng to present tasteful, decorative
studies of waterbirds, marshes and 
other nature subjects, all showing 
an Oriental influence. His sepia 
paintings of reeds and grasses 
suggest the Chinese treatment of 
bamboo. Mr. Krause achieves a 
light effect by working with pas­
tas over a white base.
Twenty-one works will be 
shown, including drawings, water- 
colors, oils and woodblock prints. 
u gepTF hj &pit,d 
Mr. Krause, Director of Art at 
the Phillips Exeter Academy in 
New Hampshire and Director of 
the Lamont Art Gallery at the
T.wens Hold Tea 
To Select 
1960-61 Members
Cwens are now looking ahead 
to the time when they turn over 
the many duties of their honor­
ary to a new class. With this in 
view, they held a tea last Sun- 
(\0 for interested freshman girls 
who have a factor of 2.75 or bet­
ter.
This service organization bases 
membership on such qualities as 
personality, leadership, and school 
participation. The girls asked to 
membership are chosen by the 
Cwens with the aid of teachers 
and upper classmen.
^he present twenty-two Cwens 
have been led throughout an ac­
tive year by Bonnie McIntosh, Sue 
Burr, Dottie Tsagaris, and Ruth 
Kibler as president, vice-presi­
dent, treasurer, and secretary re­
spectively.
Academy, is a graduate of the 
School of the Chicago Art Insti­
tute. Following two years of study 
in Europe on an art fellowship, he 
joined the Institute, staff as in­
structor in elementary drawing 
and composition. During World 
War II, Mr. Kjause was Director of 
the Visual Aids Program at the 
Flight Instructors School at Jack­
sonville Naval Air Station, Florida.
Mr. Krause’s works are repre­
sented in the permanent collec­
tions of over 27 institutes and gal­
leries throughout the country.
The Hewlett Gallery, located in 
the College of Fine Arts, is open 
Monday through Saturday from 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and in the 
evenings when there is a dramatic 
production in the Fine Arts The­
ater.
School Announces 
Maggie Murph 
Tuition Raise
A tuition increase of $100 per 
academic year fpr Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College for women 
will become effective September 
1,1960.
In announcing the increase, Dr. 
J. C. Warner, pointed out that the 
over-all annual tuition at Mar­
garet Morrison will be $1,000, the 
same as the other Carnegie divi­
sions. No other fees are assessed.
Under Dean Margaret F. Le- 
Cailr, the college has an enroll­
ment of 440 students in the fol- 
lowing departments: Biological 
Sciences, Business Studies, Gen­
eral Studies and Home Economics.
S’n S “On the Rocks” 
Headed For Sure Success
Scotch ’n Soda rehearsals are 
now in full swing! Because of the 
large number' of talented per­
formers who auditioned, this 
year’s show promises to be the 
best ever produced.
The cast is well-rounded, with 
artists in every phase of the re­
view. Judy Dippel, Wendy Stein­
berg, Stu Warshawsky, and Nate 
Lablang have leading roles in “On 
the Rocks.”
Due to a change of directors, 
progress was temporarily im­
peded. However, Ed Frederickson 
is praised by all as a truly fine 
man to fill the job. He has had ex­
perience in previous S’nS shows, 
and had a leading role in last 
year’s “Set ’Em Up Again.” Ed has
high hopes for this year's produc­
tion.
The music, written especially 
for the show, will have the audi­
ences humming the tunes as they 
leave the theater, and long after­
ward. Dave Stock is the musical 
director, and he too is very op­
timistic about the show’s success. 
Mickey Coburn, John Styers, Don 
Beman, and many others con­
tributed to the script, which will 
have the jokes coming at a rapid 
pace.
"On the Rocks” will run from 
Friday, May 29, through the Wed­
nesday of Spring Carnival week. 
It will be held in the gymnasium 
to accommodate the large number 
of people expected to attend.
S 9n S 
On fhe
Rocks"
GIRLS
Are You Looking For Summer Positions!
y,,ohvajel aid jt— fdhjC vtjlhTdidT #ti ewd !NI1 var, 
ldaltj ajT h# Ftp vaj tiCajh3d ajT edavw var, via#e ajT jaepid 
lepTF8 aiel ajT via#el8 TajvhjC8 rplhv8 edjjhl8 aivwdiF8 eiar,t0
ohjd8 ti h# Ftp vaj eF,d ajT eaSd lwtiewajT8 vtjeave Ulafdood 
.duF ae Owd 2djjBgwdiaetj «tedo8 yOm !Y9!118 #itr RihTaF 
a#edijttj8 baivw x7 et gpjTaF8 baivw x9m
YMCA - YMCA 
Êlects Officers
At the recent service of installa­
tion of new officers of the YMCA 
and YWCA, the outgoing presi­
dents, George Olson and Betsy 
Moss, installed the following stu 
dent to office: Carter Franklin, 
president of the YMCA; George 
I^gan, vice-president; Pat Crow 
ley, secretary; Bill Kurtz, treas­
urer; Alfred Zielski, membership 
chairman; Harley Eckert, assist­
ant; Rowland Kimberlin, program 
chairman with Art Loesch as vice 
ehairman and John Glasscock as­
sisting; Bill Timberlake, publicity 
chairman with assistant; Guy 
Beatty, Dave Ewing, social service 
c^prman; and Bill Breneman and 
David Graves as social projects 
co-chairman.
Mary Poehlman was installed as 
president of the YWCA with 
Nancy Ferree as vice-president; 
Jane Scott, program vice- chair­
man; Kay Cassell, secretary; Carol 
Knestrick and Trixie McCabe, 
treasurer and assistant treasurer 
respectively; Virginia Volz and 
Sia Zacharias, membership co- 
chairman; Becky McMahon, as­
sist ant membership chairman; 
Miriam Watson, dorm chairman; 
ftianne Thomas, commuter chair­
man, Joan Ogrosky, publicity 
chairman; Bobbi Bates and Judy 
Lomakin, Big-Little Sister co- 
chairman; Frances Orr, SCF rep­
resentative, Sue Jacob, special 
Projects chairman; and Abbe 
Lang, conference chairman.
let s level
twith . 
each other
You’re looking for a job. Not just any job, 
but one where you know for sure you’ll be 
doing exactly the kind of work you are most 
interested in. One that will give you every 
chance to grow with the company.
Sure, fringe benefits are fine. Link Aviation 
offers as good or better than the rest. But 
how about the day-to-day operation? What 
kind of assignments will you get? Check these 
opportunities available right now at Link:
• servo-mechanism design work
• analog computer design, solving linear and 
non-linear differential equations.
• function generator problems using 1, 2 or 3 
variables, utilizing both digital and analog 
techniques
• resolving solutions relating to fire control 
equations for rockets, missiles and bombs
ftwvigational equation solutions: simulation of 
'fire control and navigational radar systems 
% simulation of complete missile systems
• transistorized circuitry, pulse generation, 
amplifiers and digital computer components
• optical and visual display systems
Many of the above techniques are used in 
current Link projects, such as building jet 
simulators for the Boeing 707, Douglas DC-8,1 
Convair 880, Lockheed Electra, the Navy**” A3J jetfighter, or the fire control on the B-58ji 
And there are others that we can’t taik about just yet. |
There they are . . . some of the current opportunities at Link, both in Bingham­ton, New York, and in Palo Alto, Cali­fornia. If these or similar positions in­terest you, contact your Placement Of­fice for an interview in advance. Link Aviation will be on the Carnegie cam­pus on Tuesday, April 5, or if you pre­fer, forward a brief resume of your qualifications to:
MR. JOSEPH GARBARINO
LINK DIVISION
ht
GENERAL PRECISION
BINGHAMTON« NEW YOBK

---------------------------------------------------

k!
I“ E
*1
¡1
!§IIil
il
¡8
¡S
'I
!
1I
IIilIilII
II
‘ZL9l'L ’W3 'Bjaqsppy aa-| aas 'jjdjs ssauisnq ai^; uo uoqisod d joj 
llZó'2 'fìW 'UDA!||nS ^•JJSf S9S 'JJD4S puo-upa ai^; uo uoqisod d joj 
•uo|Ufj a;6aujD3 ai^i jo Joo|j pjii^4 aq; uo saDjjjo jno 4|sj/\
¦, / X.
uoijfiddmo) i/Bnoj^j aswApy-MOtf uiBsg y ut atuoj
'¡dADJj 'sjueAe /opeds pueuo 'djdoed 
6u;isdjafui LjHM ^¡04 può ¡bquj oi 
no/ sa/qouB uoijo± dtji uo uoijisod y
seiiiAijjy sjooi/ìf a jo jQìuaj es/i si jadodsMQ/y y
sseujsng . 
XijdDjBoioijj . 
6u|||jy^ uiun|03 . 
6uj4u/^\ ejn|D0-| .
6u;pD9y ¿OOJd . 
>|JOyw >|sea Xdo3 . 
6u|4Joday S4Jod$ . 
6u|4Jod9y SMé[s| .
JdVIS NViy Vi S SNOIllSOd 
*JOd N3dO MON NOIlll3dWOD
1
SÌ
¡fljjinimijHijiiijrmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiijft
a
uOmvi fesA uo ui YLee! tek
• • • ofl tek !Ik—r—-AiONMV-
OS ZS WS 00£$ MioppBOjq 
pue paojxo auy uj souid ui 
XiqejJO|uioo pue ‘''Hey 'Hy,, spjoq 
— Suiuajsej japuQ 'HSw03 qej, qspua 
SuusjiBy jno jsaSSns eti ‘Hyh
uoijfdm jsaq JnoX ^ooj ox XEpoi 
usui StmoX Xq puiui u; jdaij aq 
JJ3AV jqSlUI SpJOM 3S(M S,3JB3dS3^Bq9
•uff tijiuofj
•saipo
3HS9T ‘.iajnsB3.ix i-iauiqoiBX uqof 
‘XjBpjosg SuipuodsaaJOQ ìbuibjs 
uibtiita\. ‘jageueuiasnoH ÌJ3sXuig 
ureilITÀV ‘;uapisaj,j aoiA ìuioostjq 
pTABQ ^uapisajd &Th etim
•puei-iei uiif ‘.xagBUBui 
Yaljt« h,pc|lGaa al#ohb Ksa4l¡&j'D
__iXauBH o,’ ‘aanbaqa
iauo;sjaAng fUS q r j o g fuos 
UBIV ‘lnsu°3 33IA !3aaqpioo 
Xxiaf ‘insuoo i|qd “«X
•jtapMOJO saiaeqo ‘aaSeuBuiasnoH 
ipunaa^i aouiA ‘^JB^aaoas isauiBf 
ITMcI ‘jajnseajx iutasxnog xaiv 
‘aapuBuiuiòo ^uBua^naiq iXjpuBj/M 
[jb^i ‘japuBuxuioo :n>i euiSfS
•janiW
qog ‘jajnssajx ^uauiuia ipuexsnea 
dHhu y,l ‘jaSBUBiuasnon ÌPZPAV
p i t H a ‘^uapuodsajjoo juautuia
ijasilB^. qog ‘japjoDSH ^uauiuig 
ÌXJ3AVOJM o uq°f ‘uoqoay X^ndaa
luamuia :uospM saiJBqo ‘uoqoay
^uauiuia :uoi|Sda «qdlV ««*3|S
•sujng yhHhhhkan ‘aaSsuBUiasnon 
izopuuo p u o ui X H l ‘aaansBaJX 
CvvHl umilTM. ‘XjB^aaoas • si'',h? 
OFtH’ ‘^aapisaad aojA i-iapXH Pt8 
-jaQ ‘luapxsajd :«qdiv «dd«H U
uauiuiiz i-iaqoH ‘Xae^ajoas 
3utpu0dsaJJ03 iataaqaH 
‘XJBiajoas Surpjooaa iaiBduio^ 
stuuaa ‘JtagBUBUiasnoH isuiBpy 
uqof ‘j3JnsB3JX ‘.THOZzeuiBH ouBa 
‘^uapisa-ij aoiA ITMd
‘^uapisaJd :e*aqx «ddcx PU 
• -anTAjauiuins ssuioqx 
‘jagBUBUiasnoH i^oiuuiqs 
-JBT ‘aqijos puBJQ r‘H'u”'? PTABd 
‘jaansBaaj, OyH', ÌMO°D 
jo^BanooJd OyH', (,syH”e uqof 
‘ja^SBj^ puBjQ gHyh)he «dd«n
Ty,ejHt( urennAl 
‘jaSBUBUiasnoH Ì^TMAi uaqdajg 
‘XjB^aaoas gutpuodsajjoo iony 
-uog pjBAvpa ‘XjB^aaoag 3utpjooaH 
!;suaa aSaoao ‘aaansBaaj, (y”eh, 
agjoao ‘;uapisajd aoiA (yhHmH”Huh 
sauiBf ‘^uapxsajti :uoiisd(i
•spjBMpa ^no 
‘jaansBaJX iSipua^i ‘''Hl ‘-»Se 
-uBuiasnoH isiam^W OdhH?,l 
daaoas SurpjoaaH ip««l^H ey‘Hui
‘XaB^aaoas Sutpuodsajjoo ÌXnaX 
qog ‘^uapisaj^ aoiA ioxpK Q 
uqof ‘;uapisajd n®X
•xoj
[aBqoiM ‘XjB^aaoas Suipuodsaxioo 
iajjBA -inq^ay ‘XjB^aaoas Suipaoosy; 
iuBuissajd pjBqoiH ‘jaSBUBUiasnon 
‘uosia^ ;aaqoH ‘jo^ipny iua^Bqo 
usp ‘aoxiaouBqo aoiA inBJ^so uuom 
‘joxxaouBqo :oqa intram
•MBqs
-P^H M0Br ‘aa§BUBUiasnoH ìubui 
-aiM agjoso ‘jaansBoax iuBgoq 
agaoaQ ‘XjB^aaoas gutpjooan iiuog 
)jy ‘XJB^ajoas SuipaoDan Ì99iV 
-DIM wqof ‘iuapisa.i(j aotA iauioaio 
ui{Of ‘juapisaacl "EPHX *1*11
•jaxqB^i uqof ‘jaSBUBUi
-asnoH iXaAp^iojAl pa-ia ‘aqiJ^S
•Xtjd
-jni\[ aiq^BO ‘XaB|aaa3s puB ‘XpBjg 
uana ‘aaanssaj; ‘suaggin ans 
‘;uapxsaad-aoiA pug ‘aqaoa qisg 
‘;uapisajd-aoiA jsx aq; ‘uBuixqaoj 
‘'H'? eh }uapxsaad s.BddBH Hyhs'e 
^ ^ ‘XjB^ajoas
.H aouBA Jiuur£) puB ‘jaansBaaj 
eH SanqsuiaH ^P^f . RyHyh'FHhm 
‘ouaioijga eH uaddny uH' ‘^uapi 
-sajd-apTA eH ua^tq^\ aTII°IA[ ‘juap 
-tsaad eH HyhyhH, BddBH Bda«3l 
guipBax aq ni^ ^QIiejAi.O aiSSBH
•saaoiyo jo
a^Bjs pa;sa§gns aq; uo 'jqgiuo; Sur
&The a| cBa|G PjToE cTTca
•XjB^aj
-oas gutpaoaaa ‘uai-qBno Xuox pus 
K[JcBaatal gph,ptTlaJJta K,mhcpta| 
bui ‘aaansBaj; ‘JlBa;ai\[ Xv^bh* 
‘^uapisajd-aoiA pug ‘i i a u u b d g 
Xjbim ‘;uapisaad-aoxA ;si ‘uaxjg.o 
Xjbim ‘^uapxsajd sb sbbh Jou 
-Baia papaia ssq «uiuie*)
•>pta^sau^[ [OJB3 ‘aaansBaj; 
a|4 ,pc KJGtta|cC aj>« [al,htal 
a|4 KlthjtTt4tb pc# li 4pa,ilaaT 
YatGy a|G KPhhaa 6$Ra Pz2a !e 
4pa,GlaaT rtp lG ;yEtaC aGCCcJB
•guxjJBa
aunf ‘j3jnsB3j; aq; puB ‘pooMspoq 
UqJft K[Jc4aan¡g a|4 K3,y [pph| 
‘;u3prs3Jd e,ht 3q; ‘A\.3qd3£j[ cyy,l 
si ;u3pis3jd tIfy sesamo !M3
uajnsBaj; ‘SaaquxoQ 
auasqQ puB ‘XjB;aaaas ‘;dnBqj:q3q 
BIT9liS ‘;uapisajd-aoiA ‘Avoqorqo 
Bpuiq ‘;u3pxs3Jd ‘MOjqjBg auBf 
uasoqa SBq iqj uo[isda «ildiv
b'He‘ Sui
dhy,” aq; ',' tuaq; pB3l chh? oqM 
guippap Xsnq uaaq aABq sai;iao 
->jos sjpaM ti,' ;ssd aq; guxana
«*
-x3 aq; JO J9d95>i Xq;jo^ hlhyda ¿qqv ‘uiB^dBqo ^q;jo^V 
z;1b¡qcQy‘ ,a KJ¡VlfQ5}‘ §|4Jqy}m îdgahpt B«BUE
tims dr ahwnngphn CphJTl t|4 atJ nopTpgahTuaa 
Nyh4nNTlaJ shl|4 jgpeahn t| awclb nahCwh jgplhwha a|G
J9|S9KI9g Sllljdg JOJ
- SJ33UI0 ¿1JIU3ÌB.IJ
j <30I.V15^«>C ^OlVA3^3 nN,(? lv.1
»961 ‘91 ‘¿«psaupaAV—KVXHVi 3I03XaVJ—8

---------------------------------------------------

WdTjdlTaF8 baivw !I8 !NI1*My-A&:U& Oy-OyA*2aCd 9
Roving Reporter
By Popular Demand
SPECIAL OFFER
CAMEL - WINSTON - SALEM 
CIGARETTE LIGHTERS
AVAILABLE UNTIL MAY 20, 1960
For 10 Empty Camel, 
Winston or Salem Packages
and Only 50c
Carnegie Tech Book Store
_______The tiimsd r&&sra&wnm tggts&pow&wmd wo________
smdmrsau roj jmnmctglmo& jmdwboCgstjpa&wto 
Q r.j drimd mobwommswoby fps lrauwomsv gstjpa&d
woaMpjm gplgdC atlgsmddtsdC mobwomdC nrappl
m,pwglmo&C gt2ms &tt&dC roj lwowob roj 
atod&spa&wto m,pwglmo&
The question for this week’s roving reporter is; “Do you«* 
consider facuity/administration—student relations good or 
bad on campus?”
Jack Keiluhn, freshman Chem E, “Relations are good 
because quite a few instructors'
and students meet at the Holiday 
B et express r their mutual interest.”
Candy McCollum* sophomore 
P & D, “In comparison with Colo­
rado, the faculty here seems very 
interested and helpful.”
Bruce Kissel, sophomore PM, 
“They’re intangible.”
Sue Rau, sophomore home eco­
nomics, “Teacher's in my’ major I 
have come to know better than 
those in other areas where more 
m of an effort is necessary to get to 
know them.”
Natalie Laird, fifth year music, 
“Opportunities to get to know the 
faculty are not taken by the stu­
dents. If the student has the desire 
and makes an effort, good rela­
tions are possible. It is rare that 
a member of the faculty is not 
interested.”
John Crecine, IM, “What stu­
dent faculty relations? For the 
^average student there are none.”
Heddie Bates, sophomore drama, 
“Teachers must be able to draw 
students out but not act like them. 
I personally get more from a 
teacher if he shows interest in me 
as a student but doesn’t try to 
come down to my level. Most 
students don’t respect a teacher 
who does this. The administration, 
I have found, is on the whole very 
helpful.”
Bill Pence, junior PM, “I will 
not have relations with just any­
one!”
Pete Bouxscin, sophomore, 
mathematics, “I have come to 
know a lot of the faculty quite 
well, but. it seems that most stu­
dents do not have any relationship 
with faculty or administration. Of 
course this. works both waj^s and 
is not completely the fault of 
either.”
Bruce Williams, junior, PM, 
“With my printing instructors I 
have a more informal relation­
ship than with those in other 
courses. I feel that this informal­
ity is good. Between administra­
tion and students, I find some ten­
sion. The students are actually 
afraid to say what they’re really 
thinking.”
Don Beaman, fifth year drama, 
“At the beginning of this year I 
thought communications between 
faculty and students to be faulty. 
However, I now find that the fac­
ulty is making a sincere attempt 
to improve communications and 
let the students know what’s go­
ing on.”
Tom- Summerville, junior EE, “I 
find the faculty very impersonal 
which I don’t think is good. It 
seems as though the faculty has 
too much to do and they are too 
busy to take any extra time for
GSIA To Offer Annual
‘Program For Executives’
An intensive look at the changes to come in the next 
decade for American business administrators will be the 
major theme of the 1960 Program for Executives at Car­
negie Tech’s Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
The seventh annual program will be attended by twen­
ty-seven exicutives representing^
business and industrial firms in 
thirteen foreign countries, here for 
a nine-week session that will start 
on March 7 and end on May 6.
qfJdvehud
The major objective of the pro­
gram is to assist mature adminis­
trators to develop an analytical, 
«^company-wide approach to prob­
lems of modern business; to deep­
en their understanding of top 
management responsibilities; and 
to develop greater understanding 
of the political and economic 
forces which provide the climate 
for today’s business decisions.
Outstanding leaders from the 
fields of business and labor will 
augment the faculty of the Gradu­
ate School of Industrial Admin­
istration. They include: Gwilym 
Price, chairman of the Board of 
the Westinghouse Electric Corpor­
ation who will discuss the prob­
lems of short and long range plan­
ning.
Harry Schwartz, member of the 
New York Times and its special­
ist on Soviet Affairs, will .dis­
cuss the development of Russian 
political and economic policies.
George W. Brooks, Research Di- 
ihjector of the International Broth- 
^erhood of Pulp, Sulphite, and Pa­
per Mill Workers (AFL-CIO), 
largest union in the paper indus­
try. He will talk on recent devel­
opments in the large unions.
Frank L. Magee, President of 
the Aluminum Company of Amer­
ica, who will discuss the role of 
the president in a rapidly grow­
ing corporation.
The Program for Executives 
^-ecognizes the major problem of 
ewd man who has contact primar­
hoF with only one functional area 
t# his business organization. 
Throughout the nine-week session 
emphasis will be placed on broad­
ening this limited horizon to help 
executives move into larger areas 
t# management responsibility. The 
aTThehtjao emphasis hj the 1960 
,itCiar tj rajaCdihao hjjtuaehtj
and on the changing environment 
of business that is expected in 
the coming decade makes the pro­
gram particularly valuable to the 
man whose executive responsibil­
ities will continue for the next ten 
to twenty years.
the students. They seem to have 
bigger things to worry about.”
Niki Manes, freshman home 
economics, “I think. the faculty 
takes great interest in the students 
welfare but still doesn’t go out of 
its way to be helpful. Most of the 
initiative is left up to the indi­
vidual student.”
Scotch ’n Soda 
Needs Pianists 
For Rehearsals
With the production of “On the 
Rocks” now well under way, the 
Scotch ’n Soda club is searching 
for rehearsal pianists to work 
with the cast in the preparation 
of the show’s musical numbers. 
It is hoped that the club will have 
four or five such accompanists, so 
that the work may be divided 
equally, requiring musical assist­
ance from each person only once 
or twice a week.
Any student of Tech who can 
play piano is invited to apply 
to Scotch ’n Soda, Box 258 for 
this position in the 1931 S ’n S 
spectacular, “On the Rocks.”
Technical Director 
Position Open 
For 1960 S ’n S
Scotch ‘n Soda is now hoping to 
fill one of the top club positions. 
Within the next week, the execu­
tive board will select the technical 
director for this year’s production, 
“On the Rocks.”
The technical director is in 
charge and is the executive for all 
technical operations of Scotch ‘n 
Soda this year. The position is 
open to any student of Carnegie 
Tech, but because of the great 
responsibility the work entails, an 
upperclassman is preferred. The 
technical director is automatically 
elected to the executive board of 
Scotch ’n Soda where he may 
function with the other officers of 
the collegiate musical.
Any student of Carnegie Tech 
who is interested in applying for 
this position should write a letter 
of introduction, with reference, 
to Scotch ’n Soda, Box 258.
1960
GRADUATE ENGINEERS
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana, invites you to investigate career opportunities that are unprecedented in our history.
Our representatives will be on your campus on March 17th and 18th. Contact Mr. Charles E. Wange- 
man for an appointment.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA
—the antithesis NoDoz« could save your life, 
of perspicacity. Right? Worth knowing? Right!
Ott t#edj8 TihuhjC a vai hl ohSd idaThjC a edGefttSm Ue vaj raSd Ftp 
Tit—lF jt raeedi wt— rpvw lodd, Ftp Cdem cpe la#d Atnt3 #hCwel ewhl 
ShjT t# )wF,jtlhlmH ga#d Atnt3 aodiel Ftp —hew 
va##dhjd*ewd lard id#idlwhjC lehrpoaje hj 
vt##dd ajT edam ]de jtjYwafheY#tirhjC 
Atnt3 hl #aledi8 wajThdi8 rtid idohafodm
gt et Sdd, ,dil,hvavhtpl —whod Ftp Tihud8 
lepTF8 ahhT —tiS*Sdd, Atnt3 wajTFm
1h« sale stay awake tablet - available everywhere. Another tine product ol Grove Laboratories.
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS by Dick Bibler
u/illintervietu
weers-
8-#yF#C AuUR
March 21
Inge-Rf oil -Rand—

---------------------------------------------------

2aCd !1*My-A&:U& Oy-OyA*WdTjdlTaF8 baivw !I8 !NI1
PiDE Organized
At Syracuse 
University In 1909
Pi Delta Epsilon is the oldest 
national honorary collegiate jour­
nalism fraternity in the country.
PiDE is built on the idea of 
service as its keystone. This 
honorary was organized at Syra­
cuse University on December 6, 
1909 by a group of men working 
on the staff of the university 
publication, Daily Orange. One 
year later it became a national or­
ganization when another chapter 
was established at the University 
of Nebraska.
WtiS
The work of Pi Delta Epsilon is 
educational in that it strives ev­
erywhere to teach the ethics, tech­
nique, and mechanics of journal­
ism. PiDE is the link between the 
various campus publications, for 
it is within the councils of the 
fraternity that mutual problems 
are discussed.
Among its achievements have 
been the creating of boards of 
publications for supervision of 
staff finances and the instituting 
of needed publications, such as 
the Freshman Handbook, and the 
securing of proper recognition for 
student journalists among other 
campus activities. Tlie recent 
Write contest here on Tech cam­
pus is a PiDE project.
Schenley Park 
Given In ‘88
Tech Campus, barren and 
dreary as it was in the 1850’s, had 
one asset that gave it a certain 
claim to distinction. It bordered 
on a beautiful stretch of open 
country that was shortly to be­
come Schenley Park.
In the days immediately follow­
ing the Revolution, James O’­
Hara, first quartermaster general 
of the United States Army by ap­
pointment from George Washing­
ton, had prospered in Western 
Pennsylvania as a trader, glass 
maker, ship builder, brewer, iron 
manufacturer, and land operator. 
He has been called Pittsburgh’s 
first captain of industry. Having 
vision and ability to forsee the 
rich possibilities of Pittsburgh, he 
acquired a great deal of land in 
this area. What is now Schenley 
Park, he acquired in 1813.
baiF MitCwaj
It was O’Hara’s granddaughter, 
Mary Croghan, who profited from 
this foresight. Miss Croghan elop­
ed from a fashionable boarding 
school on Staten Island to marry 
an English army officer, Captain 
Edward W. H. Schenley. She spent 
the rest of her life on the other 
side of the Atlantic.
Yet, she didn’t forget Pitts­
burgh. At frequent intervals, she 
turned over parcels of the land 
inherited from her grandfather. 
Her most generous benefaction 
was ¡11 of the best unimproved 
acres remaining within the city 
limits, to which she later added 
100 more acres for suqh a small 
amount of money that it might as 
well be considered a gift. This 
bequest, made in 1888, was named 
Schenley Park in her honor.
!N17
By 1905, when the Institute of 
Technology was beginning to rear j 
its walls, this land had become j 
an extensive reservation of 422 
acres of rolling hills, serpentine j 
drives, bridle paths, wooded 
ravines, a conservatory, and a 
golf course. It was certainly a 
most desirable next door neighbor 
for the college.
. ;E;ee.hoY 
..eo;ehYe;
hm .;.S;.;;e.
f\ ii0j.fi.
«h
Eup
Ktfow its C eeAUTiTuw OCnD
Bur x HA^e* t ci>s$ !
Order Your Thistle Now!
( ) Please reserve a copy of the 1960 Thistle for me. 
I have enclosed my check for $6.
( ) Mail my yearbook to the address below. I have 
added 50c for mailing charges.
Name
Address ....
Send this order blank with your check to: 
THE THISTLE, Box 122, CIT, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
IBM WILL INTERVIEW 
MAR. 29 & 30
IBM invites candidates for Bachelor’s or Master’s Degrees to discuss 
opportunities in Applied Science, Manufacturing, Marketing, Product
Development, Programming and Research..............positions throughout
the United States.
Laboratories and manufacturing facilities are located in Endicott, Kings­
ton, Owego, Poughkeepsie, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vt.; San Jose, 
Calif.; Lexington, Ky.; and Rochester, Minn. Corporate headquarters is 
located in New York, with 192 branch offices in cities throughout the 
United States. The IBM representative will be glad to discuss with you 
the type of career of particular interest to you. IBM offers:
• Leadership in the development of information-handling systems.
• New applications for data processing and advances in computer 
technology.
• Favorable climate for continued career growth.
• Opportunities for a wide range of academic backgrounds 
and talents.
Contact your College Placement Officer to arrange an appointment for 
a personal interview with the IBM representative.^
If you cannot attend the interview, call or write:
Mr. G. W. Walkup, Branch Manager 
IBM Corporation, Dept. 868 
421 Seventh Avenue 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
Court 1-6880
.«itnMAIl&NM. UAChlHfc. GeRTOAAilMI
&
S 'n S ¦
gvtevw ajT gtTa jddTl a 
ehvSde laodl rajaCdi ajT 
plwdilm U# hjedidledT8 vtjeave 
sdiiF .dwraj8 MUO8 ctG x7(m

---------------------------------------------------

WdTjdlTaF8 baivw !I8 !NI1*My-A&:U& Oy-OyA*2aCd !!
Years Ag©
Sophomores Mar 
Banquet, Grabbing
£All The Guests
®ome Lock Up In Oakland, Majority 
Loaded Into Cars in Diwjuesne 
Way Yards
Only 25 Shoiv Up
At Fort Pitt Hotel
«Oh, the five dollars wasted,
The viands untasted,
Last night at the Tech freshmen’s feed;
The soup and the fishes,
The other choice dishes, *
Waited lonesome, ah, lonesome, indeed.
The freshmen of the science school of Carnegie Tech 
had their annual banquet last night in the Fort Pitt Hotel. 
That is, about 25 of them did. The other 75, or so, who had 
paid their $5 fee for the spread, spent the evening reclining 
amid the straw of two boxcars on the Pennsylvania tracks 
back of the Fort Pitt.
When it became known this week that the “Plebes” were 
fto attempt to hold the forbidden dinner, the sophomores de­
cided that they were not — and they were just about cor- 
jrect in their decision. Those few freshmen who did put in 
I# appearance at the festive board were in the main much 
itne worse for wear, and anyway it could be figured the af- 
ifair was scarcely what might 
called a “howling success.”
Not only was the big feed sadly
interrupted, but still more bitter 
was the crushing of the crowning 
effect of the freshmen crew. The 
president of the sophomore class, 
James C. Green, had been held 
captive by the freshmen since last 
Saturday and it was he that was 
l^have been the chief attraction 
on the- program of the evening. 
(But, alas, his act was cancelled at 
the last moment.
Hustled to Cars
Early in the evening the streets 
.surrounding the hotel began to 
ifill up with second-year men on 
the lookout for any freshman who 
might decide it was the better 
part of valor to ignore the fact 
that it is unfashionable to appeart
a social function many hours 
'ore the time scheduled for it to 
begin.
From then on, for the next three 
for four hours, each freshman, with 
¡the exception of one now and then 
who slipped by the ever-increas- 
|ing sophomores, was quickly and 
¡effectively grabbed and hustled off 
to the two empty boxcars that had 
been discovered and commandeer- 
|ed by members of the sophomore 
»|Blm
8 o’clock, about 40 second- 
jyear men were around the hotel 
land in the lobbies. So great be­
came the aspect of the possibility 
of serious trouble that extra po­
licemen wer6 telephoned for, to 
¡re-inforce the two uniformed men 
who had been sent down to aid 
the hotel detectives.
Suddenly the word was passed 
among the sophomores that their 
President, for the first time in the 
h®ory of the school, had been 
captured for the freshman din­
ner. Great was the rage and con­
sternation.
Conference >
A delegation of three imme­
diately was sent down to confer 
ith the handful of freshmen who 
waited in fcie Norse room for the 
arrival of their brothers.
The offer was made that if the
¡w.
sophomore president was released 
at once the freshmen would be 
permitted to have their dinner un­
disturbed. If the president was not 
forthcoming, the dining room was 
to be raided in force, and what 
was going to happen to the poor 
freshmen was dire to hear. The 
offer was coldly turned down.
But the offer need not have 
been made. For, as it neared 8:30 
o’clock, one hour alter the time 
that the banquet was to have be­
gun, an ambulance rushed up to 
the Penn Avenue entrance of the 
hotel and President Green, hand­
cuffed, was carried from it.
Upon the captor of their be­
loved president, the enraged soph­
omores charged and — well, the 
freshmen did without witnessing 
the histrionic talent of President 
Green.
Finally the dinner was served 
and, while they were lacking in 
numbers, it could not be said that 
the freshmen were lacking in en­
thusiasm, in spite of the rather 
serious setbacks of the evening.
For they were victorious in one 
thing — their own president, 
Thomas Griggs, whom the sopho­
mores wished • most earnestly to 
get in their clutches, was safe and 
sound at the speaker’s table.
And another thing, it was the 
first banquet of any sort that the 
first-year men have been able to 
have for many years, it was de­
clared.Trickery
Most of the freshmen who suc­
cessfully braved the sophomore 
lines did so not by force, but by 
tricks that made the wiles of the 
Germans during the war seem 
tame and stupid in comparison.
One plebe stuffed his cap in his 
pocket several blocks before he 
reached the hotel and, tying a 
coiled waiter’s apron about his 
waist, entered without causing a 
glance of suspicion.
Two others appropriated two 
suitcases, it is said, at the Penn­
sylvania station and stepped from 
a taxicab with them as if they had
just arrived irom a long and fa­
tiguing journey.
Yet another came dressed in the 
uniform of an officer of the United 
States Armÿ.
Seceral times dui'ing the night 
it appeared that the mobs in the 
streets, which despite hotel atta­
chées efforts, forced themselves 
into the lobbies, might become un­
governable.
Open threats were made many 
times on the street that if the 
freshmen did not produce the 
sophomore president “the hotel 
would be wrecked, if it was neces­
sary to prevent the freshmen from 
carrying but their dinner plans.” 
Editor's Note:
The above article has been re­
printed. from the morning edition 
of the November 24, 1920, Pitts­
burgh'Post. Tech ''students of to­
day seem a little bit more serious 
than their predecessors.
Seniors
All seniors who will be 
graduating this June are re­
minded to complete and re­
turn to the registrar’s the card 
giving the information for en­
grossing diplomas. Those who 
haven’t paid their S10.00 grad­
uation fee are also reminded 
to do so by April 1.
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
"5PLENDID INTERVIEW— HE'S ECCENTRIC, B\6QTED AN* COtiSS H£'U MAKE A FINE ADDITION TOTHE FACULTY.«
ulNghTNoO
We Will Interview On ...
MONDAY, MARCH 21
Engineers: • Electrical• Mechanical • Industrial
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING 
SALES ENGINEERING 
COST CONTROL
For Positions in
DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERING 
PRODUCTION ENGINEERING 
SYSTEMS & PROCEDURES
CUTLER-HAMMER Inc
Pioneer Electrical Manufacturers
MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

---------------------------------------------------

2$Cid o>*My-A&:U& Oy-OyA*WdTjdlTaF8 baivw !ä8 !NIN
HYDROFOIL SEACRAFT a contract todesign a high-speed hydrofoil-equipped vessel suit* able for operation on the open seas has been awarded Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation by the Maritime Administration. The feasibility^of employing hydrofoils to increase ocean transportation speed and comfort has been recently established by a Grumman Study. The study's results showed that hydrofoil craft were well-suited to a wide rang* of high-seas opera* 
tions.
production began in 1958—Grumman's first Army air­
plane—is designed to operate from small unimproved fields and will be used for purposes of tactical ob­servation. Featuring a 59-knot stall speed and rela­
tively the same short take-off and landing (STOL) capabilities as the Army's present light-weignt single­
engine airplanes, the Mohawk will be able to virtvolly 
k"live" with the Army in the field.
Carnegie Tartan
Sigma Nu Takes First 
In IM Rifle Contest
The first three days of firing last week, Tuesday, Wed­
nesday, and Thursday, presented the four top intramural 
rifle teams to the final shoot-off on Friday. After the first 
three days the top four teams were: SN—1026, SAE—1018,
BTP1969, KS-944. <
These four teams fired, there­
fore, on Friday. The performances 
for that day were SU—1052, KS 
— 1037, gy& — 995, and BTP — 
914. Thus, the teams finished in 
this order with these total scores: 
SN — 2078, gy& — 2013, ­g * 
1981, BTP — J883.
High Men
The high man for the first day, 
the one who was the medalist, was 
Steve Tecot of TDP with 271. For 
the second day, the top five were 
Gary Turnquist, SN, 273; Colin 
Jones, SN, 271; Frank* Pietrowski, 
KS, 268; J. P. Robinson, SAE, 265; 
and Linn Hough, KS, 262.
With their top performance of 
x19( out of a possible 2400, SN set 
a new school record. The team of 
Turnquist, Jones, Phil James, Russ 
Broscius, and Dan Rhoads, 
eclipsed the record of 2038 set last
year by the Englishmen. Only one 
other team has broken 2000 in the 
school history and that is SAE 
with 2024 last year and 2013 this 
year.
Varsity Spring 
Football Practice
y rddehjC t# aoo !NI1 #tte0
faoo vajThTaedl —hoo fd wdoT hj 
ewd #ttefaoo rddehjC ittr pj0
Tdi ntjjdi «aoo ae 7î11 ,mrm 
tj RihTaF8 baivw !(8 !NI1m
yjF jd— vajThTaedl —wt 
aid hjedidledT hj eiFhjC tpe 
#ti ewd edar aid piCdT et ae0
edjTm
2ihti et ewae ehrd8 vajTh0
Taedl lwtpoT let, hj -ttr !1x8 
:Fr8 et lhCj p,m
Aardvarks
Barks
Sports that will end this week 
are swimming, bridge, wrestling, 
call pool, basketball, and individ­
ual table tennis singles.
Since the Four Jokers didn’t en­
ter into bridge this year, the win­
ner of the GradSlams-Wild Cards 
match will be the new school 
champs.
Myles Hollander plays Bruce 
Wallerstein for the individual ta­
ble tennis championship. Bruce 
and Morty Skirboll successfully 
defended their doubles champion­
ship as they barely squeeked by 
Myles and Bennie Perlmutter. The 
champs took the last two of the 
three close games.
Soccer play will commence as 
soon as the snow melts. Softball 
rosters are due in the IM office by 
Tuesday of next week.
Co-rec badminton play started 
this week.
The up-to-date point standings 
are: SAE—//8 ATO—!78 BSR—!78 
Obelisk—!/8 SN—!x8 TDP — !18 
Met Grads—6, BTP—4, KS—3, 
Newman Club—1, and Falcons—1.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Wins Foul Shooting
On Monday and Tuesday night 
of two weeks ago, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, led by Bob Gordon, 
Chuck Vodvarka, Marv Maune, 
Bob Wright, and Curt Eaves, edged 
out Tau Delta Phi for the foul 
shooting title.
Their total score of ¡9¡8 one less 
than they had last year when they 
came in fourth, was good enough 
for first place this year.
The Tau Delts improved greatly 
upon their last year’s score to 
place second with ¡I¡ out of the 
possible 711m Like SAE, the five 
who shot for them were very con­
sistent.
OwhiT 2oavd
The Kappa Sigs, last year’s run- 
ners-up with ¡N¡8 finished with 
what seemed dismal to them, ¡7¡8 
to place third. Jim Duffy made (¡ 
out of 100 shots to come in second 
in the individual high.
The team that placed fourth 
withdrew from the competition 
for the IM trophy points so as to 
permit the Falcons to gain the
point. However, SAE “B” shot 
¡71 to come in the fourth posi­
tion; the Falcons Jiad ¡/(m
Other teams that shot well but 
just missed out were the Phi Kaps 
with ¡/I and Newman Club \\(jh 
¡//m High man for the two day’s 
shooting was Dick Fatur of New­
man Club with (/m Bruce Wal- 
lestein of BSR tied Duffy for sec­
ond place with (¡m Bob Gordon, 
SAE, was fourth with (xm
The way the teams finished 
were:
Odar
SAE “A”........
TDP .................
KS ...................
SAE “B”........
Falcons
PKT .................
Newman Club
DTD .................
ATO “A” ....
BSR .................
ATO “B”........
BTP ________
Englishmen ..
gwtel baTd
¡9¡
¡I¡ •
¡7¡
¡71
¡/(
¡/I
¡//
¡/x
¡¡I
¡¡/
¡¡¡
xN!
xN!
Please reserve my copy of the May, 1960 issue of 
“Patterns” at 50c per copy.
Name
Address
Return this blank and money to: Patterns, Box 363, C.I.T,
Varsity Golf
OiFYtpel #ti ewd uailheF 
Cto# edar —hoo fd wdoT tj 
y,iho /8 78 ajT Im yjFtjd hj0
edidledT hj eaShjC ,aie lwtpoT 
vtjeave bim -tCdil8 -dChleiai8 
fd#tid y,iho !m
Ed Blum Wins 
Second Place In 
Essay Contest
Edward Blum, well known jun­
ior chemical engineer major, was 
announced as the second place 
winner in the national Tau Beta 
Pi pledge essay contest.
In addition to the fifty dollar 
award which he will receive, his 
essay, “They Do It Differently In 
Europe,” will be printed in the 
March issue of the Bent, Tau 
Beta Pi’s national magazine. Ed 
was elected to the local chapter of 
Tau Beta Pi, an honor usually 
gained only at the completion of 
one’s junior year, as a special hon­
or student. Essay contests are no 
new matter to Ed, having placed 
In them many times in the past 
few years and winning the im­
portant H&SS Essay Contest at 
Tech for two straight years.
CFP—
[continued from page 1]
weeks* and all the actions of a 
fraternity, CFP has decided that 
it will sponsor a community proj­
ect to be participated in by the 
pledge classes of all CFP frater­
nities on the Monday preceding 
the second semester 1961.” This 
not only represents a sacrifice of 
effort on behalf of the community 
but also represents a sacrifice of 
an extra day of vacation by fra­
ternity men so that they will be 
able to participate in the project.
Thus, CFP has taken a great 
step towards the day when frater­
nities will be able to spend more 
time being fraternities and less 
lime justifying their existence.
Iniramural 
Night 
March 18
Many IM 
Sports 
End
tke’Mix
AT GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT
The Defense Department policy of relying on a “WEAPONS MIX” as the best war 
deterrent is reflected at Grumman, The company has always abided by this concept by 
putting its corporate effort into many diversified projects, both military and commercial., 
It is precisely this “COMPANY MIX” that is creating a wealth of engineering opportunities:
a new observation plane on which 
Army air-
servation. tively the same capabilities as the engine airplanes, the Mohawl 
/'live" with the Army in the
EARLY WARNING An early warning air*plane serves as an "electronic fence" for the Navy. Designed to operate from aircraft carriers far at sea, 
the plane patrols the extremes of defense perimeters to detect impending attacks by_ enemy air and sea 
forces. Carrying detection gear in a huge saucer-like radome atop its fuselage, the early-warning plane identifies approaching "strikes" and relays data to task force Combat Information Centers for the immé­diat« dispatch of defensive fighters or missile units.
ANTI-SUBMARINE WARFARE The award to Grum­
man by the U. S. Navy of a contract for a new anti-submarine air­
plane, the S2F-3, is the result of an intensified effort on the part of 
our Anti-Submarine Warfare development team (ASW). The S2F-3 
was designed to combat what may well be considered to be the 
free world's greatest menace... the submarine!
¦HH MISSILE & SPACE
TECHNOLOGY
j- The Navy Department selected
' the Bendix Aviation-Grummor»
\ Aircraft proposal os the win-ning design, in a sixteen-com- 
Bjpffir”TT ;k pony competition, for its newf V: ISjsIlp; W&3 long-range air-to-air guidedjasraTiSajpIg i IiBIB missile. The Eagle. The Eagle^% f. JaBi?;.^%8bm| will equip the Navy with aMJE jgSgfl now generation of air-to-air
missile capabilities.
Top design engineers and re­search scientists are studying a wide range of problems con­nected with space and its ex-f>loration to meet the chal- enges which stand somewhere between the present and the 
realization of a true space age.
COMMERCIAL AVIATION—THE
GULFSTREAM Grumman'« new prop-|et bust*
ness transport. The Gulf stream marks the return of 
Grumman to commercial aviation. This 350-mile-anA<} 
hour pressurized aircraft, now in full-scale production, 
has been ordered by many of the nation's leading 
corporations.
opera-,
Our representative will interview Engineering Degree Candidates majoring in aeronautical, 
mechanical, electrical or civil engineering, math or physics on April 7
Mtjeave Ftpi 2oavdrdje cpidap4
this date is not convenient, send your resume to the attention of Mr. H. E. Anderson, Dept. GR-300.
GRUMMAN AIRCRAFT ENGINEERING CORPORATION
Bethpage, Long Island, New York.
