0
Plant Progress 
For New 
Student Union— 
See Page 3
w*
VOL. 49—No. 9
Intramural 
All-Star Team * 
Selected— 
See Page 9
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., NOV. 15, 1955
Campus Chest Sets Out To Beat Pitt
By Evelyn Alessio
Heralded by lifelike kiltied bagpipers boasting expanded “chests,” the 1955-56 Cam­
pus Chest drive got underway yesterday on the Tech campus with over 300 student lead­
ers scheduled to solicit the entire student population within the one-week campaign. Cam­
pus Chest, an annual drive on many American college and university campuses, is a cam­
paign during which, ideally, each# 
student makes a contribution to
to Chest Fund. The money col­
lected is then allocated to agen­
cies which would otherwise solicit 
the students during the year in 
individual campaigns, in addition 
to agencies decided 'upon by the 
particular campus.
This year, foi? the first time, so­
licitors have been especially se­
lected from the men’s and wom­
en’s dormitories, fraternities, so­
rorities, and commuters. This 
week each solicitor will person­
ally contact nine students to 
whom he or 
she has been 
assigned, edu­
cating them as 
to the pur­
poses of the 
drive and the 
agencies re­
ceiving funds. 
There will be no pledges this 
year but instead contributions 
are to be made at the time of 
solicitations whenever possible. 
(See page 2 of November 8 
Tartan for commuter details.)
Due to unavoidable discrepan­
cies and omissions in the “C” 
Book, there will be some students 
on campus and also commuters 
who will not be solicited for 
Campus Chest. These students 
are asked to contact Mr. Sam 
Gibson at the Carnegie Union, 
Office of Religious Activities.
100% Participation Goal 
At a kickoff dessert Sunday 
night given by Dr. and Mrs. John 
C. Warner in the Morewood Gar­
dens Recreation Room, Jan 
Bishop, chairman of this year’s 
campaign, expressed the goal of 
the Campus Chest Organization 
and the Advisory Board — 100% 
participation. It is Roped that by 
not setting a monetary goal but 
rather a participation goal, the 
basic premise of the Campus 
Chest will be realized; that is, 
that American students are part 
of the world university commun­
ity and as such are fesponsible 
for participation in the inter­
national community by extending 
9 helping hand to those who are 
in need.
And many people everywhere 
are in need. A reading of the edu­
cational folder which is being 
distributed to every student by 
the solicitors or a look at the dis­
play in the Main Library of A.H. 
Will give an indication of the 
work that can be accomplished 
by the contributions of college 
‘ [Continued on page 12]
Budgets
It is necessary that any stu­
dent organization desiring Stu­
dent Council appropriations 
for 1956-57 submit their pro- 
osed budgets by November 21, 
1955. Failure to do so auto­
matically infers that no Coun­
cil appropriations are desired, 
and will be treated as indi­
cated. Compliance with the 
above procedure is important 
for all appropriated organiza­
tions.
All student organizations 
are reminded that their 
monthly budget reports for 
October are due by November 
15, 1955, in the Dean of Stu­
dents’ office.
A New Wrinkle in Bagpipesby Cy Hungerford
mb
Cy Hungerford, creator of the Campus Chest Bagpiper on this 
page, has been cartoonist for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette since 1917, 
and since that time, has icon nation-wide acclaim for his cartoons 
which appear daily on the front page of the morning Post-Gazette.
Mr. Hungerford began cartooning while still in high school for 
the Parkersburg (W. Va.) Sentinel. He has covered several cartoon 
assignments in Europe, North Africa, Mexico, and the West Indies 
and created a kid comic strip called “Snoodles” while on the Pitts­
burgh Sun-Telegraph.
At the special request of this year’s Campus Chest Coordinating 
Committee, Cy Hungerforji generously gave of his time and effort 
to cartoon for the 1955-56 Campus Chest Drive.
Student Welfare 
Featured In CIT 
1955 Cliest Drive
(Editor’s Note: In an effort to 
educate the students of Carnegie 
Tech as to where their contribu­
tions will be directed, the Campus 
Chest Organization has prepared 
a series of articles describing the 
agencies to which the Campus 
Chest Advisory Board has pro­
posed to allocate this year's 
Chest funds. This is the last in a 
series of three articles.)
Last year thousands of students 
were victims of the Assam floods; 
just as many in Europe and Asia 
were still considered refugees and 
displaced persons of the last woi'ld 
war; hundreds in Japan suffered 
from tuberculosis and didn’t know 
it. Around the world, the World 
University Service, supported by 
contributions from college students 
everywhere, held out a helping 
hand to these thousands in need 
of aid.
World University Service be­
lieves that the most powerful 
weapon in the fight against pov­
erty, disease, ignorance, and de­
spair among vast populations of 
Africa, the Middle East, South 
Asia, and the Far East is educated 
leadership. University training, 
achieved through adequate educa­
tional tools, is essential if the 
problems of these areas are to be 
overcome. By helping Asian and 
African students to help them­
selves, we create security not only 
for them but far ourselves.
[Continued on page 12J
Panliel Formal 
Held Saturday 
At Schenley
As successful this year as in 
previous years, Panhel’s all-sor­
ority closed formal took place 
Saturday night at the Schenley 
Park Hotel. Benny Benack and 
his orchestra played to almost 
two hundred couples atending the 
formal.
Earlier that day, Kappa Alpha 
Theta held a Panhellenic tea at 
tire Union for the sorority girls. 
To greet the guests at the door 
were two Thetas dressed in togas 
and laurel crowns, The tea was so 
successful that the suggestion 
was made to hold the tea annu­
ally on a rotative basis, each sor­
ority taking its turn in sponsoring 
it.
Both the tea and the formal 
gave evidence to the well-known 
fact of intersorority cooperation. 
The various Greek members mix­
ed readily and found topics of 
wide sorority and school interest, 
including rushing and the leader­
ship conference, almost inex­
haustible. The closed cocktail par­
ties that each sorority held were 
also evidence of the good spirit, 
for at each party could be found 
members of other sororities. Pan- 
hel is the one time of the year 
the sororities assemble to indi­
cate the feeling of good will 
which exists all year long be­
tween the seven sororities.
Leadership Conference 
Stresses Responsibility
That a good leader must understand the aims and goals of 
his job, and be aware of his responsibility towards others was the 
thought of Dr. Elliott Dunlap Smith’s speech Friday night at the 
opening dinner of the second leadership conference. The theme this
?time was dynamics of leadership, 
When a student comes to Tech,
T arian
At this writing, it is highly 
uncertain whether you swarms 
of TARTAN readers will be 
fortunate enough to have this 
paper in your possession by 
Tuesday or by Wednesday. 
This doubt is due to the fact 
that there are 12 pages in this 
issue (at last count). If this 
day be Wednesday, the TAR­
TAN staff apologizes for the 
one day tardiness and the in­
clusion of some stale news; if 
this be Tuesday, you are lucky.
Radio Fans Must 
Noiv Dial 600 
For Radio CIT
Today, Tuesday, November 15, 
WRCT is making a big change in 
their transmission. Due to tech­
nical reasons, the management of 
WRCT decided to change their 
transmission from 670 to 60J kilo­
cycles.
A few months ago, the techni­
cal staff of WRCT noticed that re­
ception was very much affected 
by static in certain sections of 
the men’s dorms. They studied 
this problem and finally decided 
that a change in transmission 
would solve it. After much con­
sideration it was agreed to 
change the frequency from the 
usual 670 to 600.
This change involved many 
technical difficulties together 
with the necessary authorization 
from the government. Every­
thing was arranged and finally 
today this change will take place. 
The staff hopes that from now on 
reception of WRCT will be im­
proved. The new WRCT slogan is 
“Radio Carnegie Tech, 600kc. on 
every Tech dial.”
Dr. W. H. Johnson 
Talks On Soviet- 
American Affairs
The second program in the 
Tech Community Forum series 
will be presented tonight in Room 
100 of Porter Hall, from 7:00 to 
8:30 p.m. Professor W. H. E. 
Johnson of the psychology de­
partment will speak on a highly 
current topic of inter national re­
lations: Soviet-American Rela­
tions, Past, Present, and Future. 
After Dr. Johnson’s presentation, 
there will be an open question 
and answer period. All members 
of the Tech community are in- 
vited to attend.
This series of eight monthly | 
lectures was established at Tech I 
this year to encourage intellect- | 
ual stimulation and interest in I 
national affairs. The next
he is still an infant, justly con­
cerned with himself and what he 
is learning, but once he accepts a 
position of leadership, he assumes 
responsibility towards people oth­
er than himself, and he must take 
on a mature attitude. This is the 
difference between study and 
work, the first being a necessarily 
selfish undertaking, and the sec­
ond directed toward others. Too 
often the leader loses sight of this 
purpose of helping others. He be­
comes overly concerned with his 
popularity, and will avoid taking 
an important step in his job if it 
means jeopardizing his popular­
ity.
Leader Has Responsibility
Not so guilty is the person who 
strives to “do the right thing,” 
meanwhile overlooking other es­
sential factors, including human 
relations. To become a good leader 
is to have responsibility. In such 
a situation the person may pass 
the buck, as far as credit is con­
cerned, but still has the actual 
work to do. Essentially then, one 
must have a broad and unselfish 
outlook while in a position of 
leadership, and must undersand 
all the purposes and ramifications 
of his job.
Assembling once again in the 
Union on Saturday morning, the 
leaders discussed the problems put 
forth the evening before. After an 
hour and a half of group discus­
sion, interrupted at 10:00 for a 
coffee break, the students and 
faculty gathered in the dining 
room to present summaries of 
their findings.
First of all, the organizations 
themselves have last sight of their 
original purpose. Too often com­
petition replaces purposeful goal, 
and the leader is carried along 
by tradition and the competitive 
spirit of his followers. It is the 
leader’s job to evaluate and de­
fine the aims and goals of his 
organization, so that both the 
workers and the public receive the 
most benefit.
Types of Leaders
There are three types of lead­
ers: the autocrat, the democrat, 
and the laissez-faire individual. 
Apparently the “democrat” 
[Conttnued on page 12]
Music Professors 
In Sunday Recital
Members of the music faculty at 
Carnegie’s College of Fine Arts 
will present a recital of trios. 
Sunday, November 20 at 8:30 p.m. 
(This was incorrectly stated in last 
week’s Tartan to be scheduled 
for November 13).
Faculty performers are Goesta 
Andreasson, violin: Eugene Eicher, 
violoncello and Nelson Whitaker, 
piano. The program includes Beet­
hoven’s Trio in C Minor, Op. 1, No.
3; Alexander Teherepnipe’s Tri< 
pro- I Op. 34, and Trio in B flat Majoi 
gram is scheduled for December Op. 99 by Schubert.
13. when Dean Norman L. Rice | The recital will be hekl in th 
of the College of Fine Arts will ! Exhibition Hall, College of Fin 
speak on “The Indispensable In- | Arts. Free tickets may be obtaine 
gredient.” [from the music department,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 15, 1955\
Quickly, Comfortably, Dependably
by GREYHOUND
Fairmont, W. Va........$2.75
Harrisburg, Pa............5.25
Indianapolis, Ind..........8.25
Mansfield, 0...............3.80
New York City........ 9.50
Philadelphia, Pa..........7.40
Scranton, Pa...............6.95
St. Louis, Mo............13.45
Syracuse, N. Y......... 9.05
Washington, D. C....... 6.30
Youngstown, 0............1.60
Greyhound Terminal
Liberty Avenue and Grant Street 
Phone: GRant 1-5700
Akron, O........e • • • «.$2.80
Altoona, Pa. . .
Albany, N. Y.../• • e •..12.10
Baltimore, Md.. 5.90
Buffalo, N. Y.... 5.90
Cincinnati, O. .
Cleveland, O. .
Columbus, O. .. 4.40
Chicago, III. ..10.25
Clarksburg, W.Va.... 3.40
Detroit, Mich. .• • • •.. 6.75
GREYHOUN
Hopeful Readers 
Turn To First 
Issue Of Scot
Extra-curricular Roles 
Essential To Education
Experimental Physicists 
Nuclear Physicists 
Theoretical Physicists 
Mathematicians 
Metallurgical Engineers
Analytical Chemists 
Inorganic Chemists 
Physical Chemists 
Mechanical Engineers 
Electrical Engineers (Electronics)
Summer employment opportunities at the Laboratory are open to 
approximately 100 graduate students majoring in various physical 
sciences, and undergraduates receiving their degrees next June 
who intend to continue their advance studies. ”
The program provides for well-paid summer work with renowned 
scientists in one of the nation’s most important and finest 
equipped research laboratories.
Summer employees will become familiar with several phases of 
vital scientific research and development activity related as closely 
as possible to the individual’s field of interest. This 
experience will enable students to appraise the advantages of a 
possible career at the Laboratory.
In addition to interesting work, employees will enjoy delightful 
daytime temperatures and blanket-cool nights in a timbered, 
mountainous area, only 35 miles from historic old Santa Fe. 
Interested students should make immediate inquiry. Completed 
applications must be received by the Laboratory not later than 
February 1,1956, in order to allow time for 
necessary security clearance. Applicants mud 
be U. S. citizens.
• It. 1 Mail inquiry to:SCiendllC laboratory Department of Scientific Personnel
K IIMIWlKiTV Al rAiimiMtA ?
applicatioialamos
or THi UNIVERSITY Of CAllFOtNIA
IOS ALAMOS. NEW MEXICO
Visitors Welcome 
To See Cyclotron
By A1 Federowicz
Carnegie Tech’s cyclotron is located in Saxonburg, Pa. about 20 
miles north-west of Pittsburgh. Not many Tech students have ever 
seen the installation so the picture will give an idea of the cyclo­
tron’s size and extent of the connected laboratories. The cyclotron
magnet weighs 1,500 tons and is*----------------------------------------------------------
mounted within concrete shield­
ing. The tall cubical building con­
tains the instrument, while the 
others are laboratories and liv­
ing quarters for the staff. To give 
a brief explanation of the use of 
a cyclotron, it is a machine for 
making very small particles, call­
ed protons, move at a very high 
speed—130,000 miles/second..
Visitors Welcome
Persons wishing to see the cy­
clotron are welcome and encour­
aged to go there. Although the 
physics department does not run 
any excursion trips to Saxonburg, 
there is a station wagon which 
regularly carries faculty members 
and graduate students to Saxon­
burg and back, and it normally has 
about five vacant seats. Anyone 
wishing to visit the cyclotron 
should contact Dr. Sutton in the 
physics department. Groups of 
about five persons are preferred.
Plans for Carnegie Tech’s cy­
clotron were drawn up shortly aft­
er the war and the money for be­
ginning the project was donated 
by the Buhl Foundation in 1946. 
The initially planned size for the 
cyclotron was 100 mev. (Cyclo­
trons are rated in terms of the 
energy which they impart to a pro­
ton). These plans were changed
shortly when it was shown that 
the efficiency of the machine could 
be greatly increased by improving 
the design and doubling the phys­
ical size of the magnet.
Was World’s Largest
The final energy arrived at was 
450 mev. or 4^ times the initially 
planned size. The cyclotron was 
put into operation in 1949, and at 
that time it was the largest in the 
world. Since then, however, larger 
ones have been built at Brookhav- 
en laboratories (3,000 jnev.) and 
at California Tech (6,000 mev.). 
The Russians are also known to 
have a larger one (700 mev.).
The research worR at Saxon­
burg is carried on by the faculty 
and graduate students in Tech’s 
physics department. The experi­
ments there are aimed at finding 
out about the nature of the nu­
cleus by studying the X-ray radia­
tion given off due to a particle 
called the meson, whose orbit is 
very close to the nucleus. The gen­
eral method of doing this was per­
fected about two years ago, and at 
present, data is being gathered on 
the nuclei of the known elements. 
This work has not made many 
headlines, but it is quite signifi­
cant in present-day atomic physics 
research.
By Bob Jack
Judging from the gaudy adver­
tisements about campus, the un­
knowing freshman could have 
thought that last Wednesday was 
supposed to be some sort of red 
letter day at Tech. But to the more 
discerning, the situation was quite 
clear; the Scot was ready to reach 
its readers after being only one , 
week late.
The Scot finally made it. WedT 
nesday morning in Skibo, a cute 
young thing with a ready smile 
tried to dispose of her stack of 
flashy magazines. It was soon 
] learned by those who had a quar­
ter to spare that her smile was 
about all you got for your two bits.
Scot failed to do anything. No 
one was lampooned, and heaven 
knows, there are many corners of 
CIT which can stand some lam­
pooning. There w7as nothing which 
would even indicate that the mag­
azine was written .for Tech read­
ers outside of a rather sketchy ar­
ticle on Scotch ’n Soda, and the 
“Book Company” page, which was 
admittedly good. The jokes cer­
tainly didn’t gratify one’s intelli­
gence, and I suppose I’ll have to 
write to the “Question Man” to 
have the Editor’s Notes explained.
I could not help but think that 
many of the Scot’s advertisers may 
not have seen their ads, for many 
bore a strange resemblance t o 
the doodlings on the corners of 
my econ notes.
All this could mean only one 
thing. The effort of the Scot staff 
to go “literary” has not quite made 
the grade. They need to ask them­
selves if it is fair to try out a new 
style on the student body by de­
voting one fourth of the year’s 
publications to it on the premise 
that it will be joyfully received. I 
think not.
By Betsy Kuhn
What exactly is the role of extracurricular activities on Tech’s
campus, and how much time should a student devote to them? These 
controversial questions are being battered back and forth among the 
students and faculty today. The answer might be seen more easily
if the college life at the Univer-#------7----------------------:----------------------------
sity of Munich, where there are a Personal life.
no extra-curricular .activities, is 
compared to Tech, where there 
are approximately 104 campus 
organizations for student partici­
pation.
Dr. H. M. Jones, professor of 
English at Harvard University, 
observed the following from his 
year of teaching at Munich: 
“The University takes no respon­
sibility for the life of its students. 
It has no dormitories, fraternities, 
cafeteria, or campus activities. 
The assumption of both student 
and faculty is that an academic 
education is an intellectual re­
sponsibility for adult persons. If 
any person is childish enough 
not to take advantage of his op­
portunity to learn, then the re- 
sponsibilty for being a fool is his 
and not the institution’s.”
In contrast to this, Carnegie 
Tech has a well-rounded pro­
gram of campus activities under 
discreet faculty direction. Dean 
Graham quotes: “It is my opin­
ion that extra-curriculars are 
significant insofar as they may be 
pertinent and contributive to the 
educational objectives of CIT.” 
These objectives are to prepare 
the student to be professionally 
competent, to be a useful citi­
zen, and to enable him to have
Tech Points the Way
Instead of alienating him from 
professional and social guidance 
as Munich does, Tech has under­
taken the job of preparing the 
student for every aspect of life. 
One of the most important ways 
of fulfilling this objective is by 
maintaining extracurricular ac- 
tivieies. However, the student 
should select and spend time on 
those which will help him to de­
velop professionally, personally, 
and democratically. By doing this, 
the role of extracurricular will 
take on a definite and significant 
meaning.
This, then, is the first in a se­
ries of articles to cover the va­
rious college campus organiza­
tions and departmental clubs, 
which Tech offers for the pur­
pose of training the student for 
life in an adult world.
Thistle
For those who have not yet 
received their copies of the 
1955 Thistle, they will be dis­
tributed in Skibo this Thurs­
day from 11:30 to 1:30. 1956 
Thistles may also be ordered 
at this time.
TICK ETS
los
Teeh's Saxonburg Center
These buildings house Carnegie Tech’s Nuclear Research Labora­
tory. In the cubical building is a 450 mev. cyclotron, which is oper­
ated under the direction of the physics department.
Post Office
Pittsburgh Postmaster 
James C. Smith has announc­
ed that applications for 
Christmas employment are be­
ing accepted until all positions 
are filled. Veterans will be 
given first preference for em­
ployment. Applicants should 
report at the Grant Street en­
trance of the New Federal 
Building between 9:00 a.m. 
and 3:00 p.m. Only male ap­
plicants are desired.
Persons making application 
must bring with them 65 cents 
to pay for bonding; proof of 
discharge from armed serv­
ices, if veterans; social secur­
ity number; proof of date of 
birth or draft card; and citi­
zenship papers, if foreign 
born.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 15, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
CHARLES N. CLARK joined G.E. in 1949 
after receiving his B.S. and M.S. 
(in E. E.) from the University of 
Wisconsin. He served two years with 
the Navy during World War II.
i:;: ' :: ! -
New Carnegie Union 
Has Building Priority
By Marlene Daehnert
If ever you have been slightly depressed by the dim hallways 
and creaky stairs that confront one on entering Carnegie Union, the 
center of Carnegie Tech’s student activities, you may be glad to 
know that this building might not be around much longer. Right
now plans are being considered*---------------------------------------------------------
for the construction of a new stu­
dent union to house Carnegie 
Tech’s extracurricular activities
C-Book Addenum
In view of the fact that quite a few changes of local address 
and phone numbers occur in the first few weeks of school, Alpha 
Phi Omega service fraternity has decided to take another job on 
its shoulders and publish a small addenum to the C-Book. The 
task of collecting the corrected information for this booklet is 
considerable, so it is being done by means of the coupon below. 
All persons whose aforementioned information is not now as 
listed in the C-Book should fill out this coupon with the desired 
correction and send it to Alpha Phi Omega via intraschool mail. 
Those whose phone numbers are omitted from the C-Book due 
to the fact that they were omitted from the No. 10 card on the 
registration permit should also fill out the coupon. Corrections 
can be made in the supplement only for those who take the 
time to return the coupon.
----------------------------------
Return to Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity 
(Please print clearly.)
I
! NAME ................................................................................................
I
! CLASS.............DEPT......................PHONE................................
I
* LOCAL ADDRESS.......................................................................
I
l
I ........................................................................................................................................................
Scotch9n Soda
Soctch ’n Soda is having a 
meeting on Monday, Novem­
ber 21, at 4:30 p.m. in FA 107 
for all those people who are 
interested in costume and 
scene design for this year’s 
production.
Tech’s Neighbor, 
PCW, Becomes 
Chatham College
Pennsylvania College for Wom­
en, fourth oldest of its kind in 
America, will change its name to 
Chatham College on November 15, 
Dr. Paul R. Anderson, President, 
announced today. The new name 
will honor William Pitt the Elder, 
the first Earl of Chatham. Founded 
here in 1869, the college is a pri­
vately supported liberal arts in­
stitution with enrollment of 445 
women. The college board of 
trustees selected the new name, 
President Anderson told a student- 
faculty dinner on the college cam­
pus, after careful review of over 
125 suggestions by alumnae, fac­
ulty, and students.
Before deciding to change the 
college’s name the Trustees polled 
the alumnae and faculty on the 
question. Of the 3,000 alumnae, in 
46 states and 12 foreign countries, 
1,530 replied to the mail balloting. 
Over 72 percent favored a change, 
with every class since 1900 and 
every region showing a clear ma­
jority. The faculty voted unan­
imously for the change and sup­
port was also expressed by the 
student newspaper.
Name Offers Virtues 
In a statement made after the 
new name was announced, Arthur 
E. Braun, chairman of the college’s 
board of trustees, said, “With an 
overwhelming vote by alumnae in 
favor of a change of name, the 
Board of Trustees has happily de­
cided on a new name which it be­
lieves offers the virtues of clarity, 
simplicity, and significance on the 
basis of which the college can 
move forward to ever higher 
standards of excellence.”
“Confusion with the iden);ty of 
other institutions, principally 
Pennsylvania State University and 
the University of Pennsylvania, 
and the widespread misimpression 
that the college is state-supported 
were the chief reasons for the 
change,” Dr. Anderson said, “I 
believe that the future develop­
ment of the college will be better 
assured with a new name.” This 
same opinion had been expressed 
by three “survey teams” which 
were brought in to help the college 
in 1953 by studying its curriculum, 
administration and public rela­
tions.
YMCA And YWCA 
To Hold Seminars
The YMCA and YWCA are 
sponsoring three seminars to be 
held in New York City, November 
25-27, March 29-31 ,and April 27- 
29. Delegates will attend UN ses­
sions and will see and hear UN 
personalities such as Dag Ham­
marskjöld and Henry Cabot Lodge. 
An outstanding speaker on the UN 
•will be guest of the final seminar 
dinner. In addition to the regular 
meetings, students will have time 
to tour the city with other mem­
bers of the group.
Membership in these seminars 
is open to students and faculty of 
all races and creeds. Those who 
are interested in the purposes of 
the seminars should contact Mr. 
Gibson in the Union for further 
information.
Married Students
—with—
HOUSING PROBLEMS
you may qualify 
for an apartmentRENTALS AS LOW AS 
$30 per month
Range, Refrigerator and 
Utilities Included 
Phone MISS JOHNSON 
EXpress 1-1076
and social life. These tentative 
plans are for a three story struc­
ture which will be built where 
Web Hall now stands and which 
will have facilities for almost any 
kind of activity..
This new Carnegie Union will 
have space for a dance floor, 
•game room, bowling allies, photo­
graphic studios, religious chapels, 
and TV and radio studios. A new 
post office and bookstore will be 
included, as will modern faculty 
and student lounges. Special serv­
ices offered by the new union will 
be a barber shop, a beauty shop, 
laundry and cleaning collections, 
and check rooms. New offices will 
be provided for student publica­
tions and alumni affairs.
Those that like to eat will be 
happy to know that the new 
building will have a cafeteria, a 
coffee shop, a snack bar, and a
faculty dining room. Kitchens 
equipped with modern appli­
ances will provide service for 
these eating areas. A room for 
the manufacture of ice cream is 
also being considered.
As yet, most of these arrange­
ments are only in the planning 
stage, but two concrete actions 
have been taken. A preliminary 
listing of all activities to be 
housed in the building has been 
made, and a survey of student 
organizations has been held to 
determine how much room these 
groups will need for their activi­
ties. The next step is to obtain 
trustee approal of architectural 
drawings for the student union. 
These drawings will be used for 
promotion purposes to raise 
funds for the construction work.
Carnegie Tech also needs a new 
library, theater and auditorium, 
but the building of a student un­
ion has priority over all these 
projects. It has definitely been de­
cided that the next structure on
Tech’s campus will be construct­
ed for the use of student activities. 
Students can now look forward 
to the time when their affairs 
will be carried on in more con­
genial surrounding^ than the 
somber rooms of the old Car­
negie Union.
Table Tennis
Intramural table tennis play 
will begin Wednesday, No­
vember 16. Schedules may be 
picked up in the intramural 
office.
What young people are doing at General Electric
Young engineer decides what colors are best for G-E reflector lamps
Which color of light makes people look nat­
ural? Should a blue light Be used more often 
than a red? What kind of effect does a violet 
light have on merchandise?
In recent years, color lighting has become 
so important in stores, restaurants, theaters, 
and displays that General Electric developed 
a line of new easy-to-use color-reflector lamps 
for this market.
The man responsible for deciding which 
colors are most effective for users of these 
lamps is 29-year-old Charles N. Clark, Ap­
plication Engineering Color Specialist for 
General Electric’s large lamp department.
Clark's Work Is Interesting, Important
In a recent series of tests, Clark made a 
critical appraisal of literally hundreds of 
color-filter materials to find the ones that 
produced maximum results but were still 
suitable to high-production techniques, prac­
tical stocking and simplified selling. This 
experimental work also had to take into 
account all the information on human per­
ception of color.
25,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When Clark came to General Electric in 
1949, he already knew the work he wanted 
to do. Like each of the 25,000 college-grad- 
uate employees, he was given his chance to 
grow and realize his full potential. For Gen­
eral Electric has long believed this: When 
fresh, young minds are given freedom to 
make progress, everybody benefits—the in­
dividual, the company, and the country.
T^ogress Is Our Most Important Product
ENERAL (m ELECTRI

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—C ARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 15, 1955
Summer In Europe For 
Tech Y Representatives
By Clarence Schmidt and < 
Robert Marik
Carnegie Tech was well repre­
sented at the World YMCA Cen­
tennial held in Paris last summer. 
Of the 8.000 people from all over 
the world who gathered in Paris 
for the event, three were sent from 
the Carnegie Tech YMCA. They 
were Mr. Sam N. Gibson, Execu­
tive Secretary of the YMCA and 
Coordinator of Religious Activi­
ties on this campus; Clarence 
Schmidt, President of the Carnegie 
Tech YMCA: and Bob Marik, Sec­
retary.
The purpose of their spending 
two months in Europe was not 
only to attend this Centennial, 
but also to gain personal insight 
into the religious, political, social, 
and economic workings of the 
countries visited: England, Ger­
many, Switzerland, and France. 
This was done by talking to Eur
group proceeded to the British 
Student Christian Movement Con- j 
ference in Swanwick, Derbyshire. | 
Here they had an opportunity to 
get to know British students on j 
an informal level through a week ' 
of discussion, speakers, and gen- | 
eral fellowship. The boys were 
forced to sleep in tents in a cow 
pasture, but fortunately there was , 
no rain during the entire stay. j 
The next country on the sum­
mer travelogue was Germany. 
Bonn reflected the healthy Ger- , 
man economy with its new build- : 
ings, abundance of commodities on j 
store shelves, and the relatively 
high standard of living of their 
residents. In Heidelberg the group 
saw the merging of the old and j 
the new, as the remains of an his­
toric old fortress on a hillside 
above the city overlooked the tra-
:streets.
Bob Delegates from the East
opcan students and leaders of ; d i t i o n a 1 university atmosphere 
many fields, and by firsthand ob- ! combining the myriads of Ameri- 
servation of the situation. ! can tourists and soldiers on the
Nine Day Crossing 
Clarence Schmidt and 
Marik travelled as a part of a ¦ The German people were found i 
group of 28 college students rep- to be genuinely friendly and to | 
resenting campus YMCA's from hold no antagonism from the last, 
all over the United States. j war. They are quite concerned
On July 4, after a brief orienta- j about their countrymen behind the I 
tion period in New York City, 
they set sail from Quebec on a 
student ship, the TSS Columbia 
of the Greek Line. The nine days 
on the briny deep provided an ex­
cellent opportunity for the various 
delegates to become better ac­
quainted since few had known 
each other before meeting in New 
York. >
The ship docked at Southampton 
on July 13, and the group pro­
ceeded directly to London by bus.
The most impressive things found 
there were the genuine friend­
liness of everyone on the street 
and the firmly entrenched British 
tradition, as symbolized by West­
minister Palace, Buckingham Pal­
ace. and the dominant place of the 
royal family in British hearts.
London Soap Boxes 
Free speech reaches its greatest 
heights in London, for in Hyde 
Park one can stand upon a podium 
and praise or criticize anything he 
wishes, protected by the under­
standing Bobbies of the police 
force. Here the governments of 
every country in the world are 
drawn over the coals, various re­
ligious sects try to gain followers, 
and social questions are heatedly 
debated. The art of heckling has 
grown to be almost as great an 
attraction as the speakers them- j 
selves.
The Americans found it very in­
teresting to visit such places as ; 
the Conservative, Socialist, and 
Communist party headquarters, as ; 
well as the Daily Worker press, | 
where they were given briefings 
on the work of each organization.
Derbyshire Pasture 
After a week in London, the
iron curtain in East Germany. 
Here the Americans were exposed 
to the communist menace face to 
face, as they listened to the ac­
counts of students visiting from 
the East Zone, including one who 
had spent five years in a forced 
labor camp.
At Geneva, Switzerland, the 
group arrived just at the time of 
the Peacetime Atomic Energy 
Conference. The “Spirit of Ge­
neva” reigned high, and many 
secrets were exchanged. The 
Americans were the only visitors 
permitted in the assembly where 
discoveries of the atomic age were 
being presented by scientists of all 
countries. The Russian nuclear ex­
hibit was complete down to uni­
formed men milling in the rooms 
and pictures of Marx, Engels, 
Lenin, and Bulganin hanging from 
the ceiling. Stalin’s picture was 
notably not among those display­
ed.
High Swiss Standards
The Swiss standard of living is 
the highest in Europe. Many rich 
persons have fed money into the 
economy during the war years 
when it was dangerous to have 
money anywhere else in Europe. 
The fact that there have not been
the ruins of two World Wars to 
rebuild has made a great differ­
ence in the stability of the Swiss 
franc. In contrast to other Eur­
opean countries, the Swiss prices 
are almost on a par with those in 
America.
Of course, there was time to 
take in the sights of Paris, which 
is the dream of any red-blooded 
American youth. From the book­
stalls along the Seine to the side­
walk cafes, to the Moulin Rouge 
and the Folies Bergeres, the at­
mosphere was distinctly Paris. 
Paris is a nation within itself, dif­
ferent from the rest of France and 
the rest of the world. Although a
good part of Paris’ economy de­
pends on the extravagance of en­
thusiastic Americans, the Paris­
ians seem relatively unimpressed 
by the presence of these tourists. 
In fact, many leave the city for 
more pleasant parts in the sum­
mer.
¦ The return crossing which 
started on August 23, was a period 
of rest and reflections on the sum­
mer, with an occasional dash to 
the rail in rough seas. The op­
portunity to see firsthand the sit­
uation in Europe and to learn of 
the hopes, fears, and problems of 
the European, himself, was a tre- 
mendously enlightening and
(broadening experience for every­
one.
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
Campus Cleaners
ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oil
An oil discovery that helps you eat better!
About three billion dollars worth of farm crops are destroyed each year by fungus growths. But now 
helping to solve this problem is an Esso Research discovery... a brilliant new chemical made from 
oil... hailed as one of the most versatile and effective fungicides in existence. This is one of 
the many ways in which Esso Research works wonders with oil! ESSO RESEARCH£sso
*e
iottis n tfc 
University 
»•del 
tweds..
MW M
1rs nd
JET 
BUCK and 
MIBNITE 
BLUE
lifhtweifht
year-round
fabrics
naturo! j 
,k oui der s. ; 
narrow ¡ 
shawl lapel, i 
flap pocket», j 
center vent, 
non pleated 
trousers j
urne oi re téiler frtt formal dre*« (Hart, write*
LORD WEST
tailored by Weit Mill 
>1 West 21 St., New York 11. N Y

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 15, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
Dial M for Murder
Probably no play in recent 
times has been so widely 
duced in major cities all over the 
world as has “Dial M for Mur­
der.” the mystery by English 
playwright Frederick Knott, 
which is currently running at 
the ’Pittsburgh Playhouse. This 
suspense thriller opened a three 
week run at the Playhouse’s 
Hamlet St. Theater on November 
3 and is set to run through No­
vember 26.
From Paris to Buenos Aires, 
from Istanbul to Amsterdam, 
from Stockholm to Rome, the 
play has enjoyed as great a hit 
as it did in New York and Lon­
don.
Perfect Crime Committed
Its interest stems from the 
fact that a perfect crime has been 
committed. The audience is in on 
the crime—so instead of being a 
"whodunit”—the audience awaits 
to find out whether the police in 
the show will know “whodidit”. 
Author Knott has fcvritten a tight 
thriller keeping the the theater­
goer on the edge of his seat try­
ing to figure out the playright’s 
stratagems. This suspense is then 
universal for peoples from all 
walks of life and from all na­
tions of the world.
In the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
production, this suspense is well 
kept. Produced by Frederick Bur­
leigh and staged by Robert Bard- 
well, this mystery has Thomas 
Gaydos as the plotting husband 
and Gloria Abdou as the wife and 
intended victim. Durand Van 
Krevelen, William Skelton, Don 
Sommer, and Jack Savage com­
plete this outstanding cast.
Tickets for the entire run of 
“Dial M for Murder” are on sale 
to the public at the Playhouse
Symphony
Grant Johannesen, the cele­
brated young American pianist, 
who captivated Pittsburgh audi- 
in recent recital perform­
ances, makes his first appearance 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra this Friday and Sun- 
at Syria Mosque. With Wil- 
Steinberg conducting, he 
will play Bela Bartok’s Piano 
Concerto No. 3, a work that gives 
full reign to Johannesen’s daz­
zling technique and musicianly 
interpretation. In addition to the 
concerto, Steinberg will conduct 
the Orchestra in two favorite 
symphonies, Beethoven’s Fourth 
and the Haydn London Sym­
phony, No. 104.
Johanessen was born in Salt 
Lake City of Norwegian parents, 
and received his first musical in­
struction there. He made his New 
York debut in 1944, and his ca­
reer since then has been an ex­
citing series of triumphant reci­
tal and orchestral appearances on 
three continents.
Well Known in U. S.
He won First Prize in the In­
ternational Piano Competition in 
Belgium in 1949; and, conse­
quently, performed widely in 
Europe of that year. In 1952 he 
thrilled audiences of South 
America and recorded five con­
certos with the Netherlands 
Philharmonic in Holland. Tours 
of North America have brought 
this young artist to most of the 
major cities of the United States 
and Canada, and he is the only 
pianist of his generation to be 
heard regularly on the Téléphoné 
Hour.
box-office. The next Playhouse 
production will be the prize- 
winning classic “Our Town”, 
which will open in the Craft Ave. 
Theater on November 17.
YM & WHA Center
Robert Morris, psychiatric 
counselor, will discuss “The Big 
Crime” this Tuesday, November 
15, at 8:45 p.m. in the YM&WHA 
lecture hall. Counselor Morris 
will demonstrate how feelings 
lived out within a person can 
make a prison for his life. He 
will also discuss the possibilities 
of removing the hard shell that 
so often covers genuine living. 
An open question and answer pe­
riod will follow the formal pre­
sentation.
“Romantic Agony: The Small 
Change of Contrivance” is the 
lecture topic for Thursday eve­
ning, November 17. In the cur­
rent Thursday series of lectures 
on “The Identification of Values: 
On the'Need to Know in Modern 
Philosophy,” Arthur Bergholtz, 
noted philosopher and literary 
critic, will discuss the confusion 
of “love” as pictured in the nov­
els of Dostoevski, Proust, and 
Colette.
Americade
Americade the quarter-million 
dollar exposition designed by the 
National Association of Manu­
facturers to tell the story of the 
nation’s future, will be presented 
as a public service at Syria 
Mosque, Bigelow Boulevard, No­
vember 21, 22, and 23.
Through a series of electronic­
ally animated displays in color, 
the Americade gives visual scope 
and dramatic depth to America’s 
potential for reaching new 
heights of prosperity in the years 
ahead.
The mobile exhibit, which 
started a nation-wide tour in Oc­
tober, features a graphic projec­
tion of the U.S. of 1975. Outlined 
are a unique system of lighting 
and sound effects — many of 
which have been designed for 
spectator participation—and pre­
dictions for national progress 
during the coming 20 years in 
every facet of American spirit­
ual, cultural and material life.
True to Life Space Ship
Included in the displays, the 
transportation exhibit features a 
simulated space ship wherein 
participating spectators work 
controls of an “interplanetary” 
ship, to the accompaniment of
sound effects and stellar galaxies 
on a moving screfen, to “travel’* 
into space, or across continents in 
a matter of minutes.
Manipulation of an improvised 
“phono-vision” system in the 
communications exhibit, makes it 
possible for viewers to dial any 
comer of the globe and see na­
tives of that area on the screen 
while talking to them. Spectators 
also see themselves on an actual 
television screen at this display
Keynote of the exhibition is 
the growth exhibit, featuring an 
automatic counter, geared to the 
Bureau of Census’ progression 
scale in Washington, that gives 
the exact population of the 
United States at the very mo­
ment it is being watched.
7000 Per Day Gain
The various dials point out the 
nation’s prolific birthrate, a baby 
born every eight seconds, deaths 
at the rate of one every 21 sec­
onds, immigration at the rate of 
one every two minutes, emigra­
tion at the rate of one every 24 
minutes, for a net gain of one 
every twelve seconds.
One special exhibit, Pittsburgh 
in 1975 indicates the number of 
new homes, churches, jobs, and 
investments needed to provide 
for the 20-year expansion period.
The exhibits will be open free 
to the public from 10:00 a.m. to 
10:00 p.m., daily.
Savoyards
The Allegheny County Society 
for Crippled Children will be 
the beneficiary of the opening 
production of the Pittsburgh 
Savoyards’ 18th Season. “Yeo­
men of the Guard” by Gilbert 
and Sullivan will be presented 
Thursday and Friday evenings, 
November 17 and 18, in Antonian 
Hall, Mt. Mercy College, Fifth 
and Halket Streets.
Since its founding 22 years ago 
the Allegheny County Society for 
Crippled Children has Served 
over 2100 children without regard 
to cause of crippling, race or 
creed. The Society provides 
braces, corrective shoes and or­
thopedic devices, summer camps 
for crippled children, special 
classes at Bedford School Cere­
bral Palsy Center and a Shelter-
Etiquette Movie 
Shown At Dinner 
For Mrs. Hackett
In honor of Mrs. Robert L. 
Hackett, Dean of Women, Mor­
tar Board held a dinner in the 
Morewood Gardens Blue Room 
Thursday night. Members of all 
the women’s honoraries and their 
advisors were invited. The indi­
vidual tables were decorated 
with candles and brightly-colored 
autumn leaves, complimenting 
Mrs. Hackett’s corsage of fall 
flowers.
Following dinner, at which 
there were no speakers, movies 
made by Mortar Board about fif­
teen years ago were shown. The 
subject was Etiquette, and the 
film showed humoroughly just ex­
actly what not to do. This in­
cluded everything from repairing 
lipstick and combing hair at din­
ner, to waving silverware and 
chewing with one’s mouth open. 
Among the roster of social errors 
included were some frequently 
found today, such as cutting let­
tuce and spreading whole pieces 
of bread held aloft in the hand.
The second reel of the film, 
taken in the Union and in Skibo, 
revealed the noisy gentleman in 
his off moments, when he forgot 
to remove his hat or open the 
door for his fair companion, and 
that well-known Skibo resident 
who talks to a fifth party during 
a serious bridge game. One of the 
factors contributing to the hu­
morous appeal of the movie was 
the style of the costumes used 
—short and sacky.
ed Workshop on the South Side 
for young handicapped adults.
Tickets
Yeoman of the Guard (The 
Merry Man and His Maid) is a 
tale of the famed Yeoman of the 
Guard of the Tower of London 
and is laid in the l6th Century. 
Tickets at $1.95 and 1.65 on sale 
at Gimbel’s, Horne’s Wagner- 
Bund Music Company and at 
Door, Performance nights.
The Savoyards’ Spring produc­
tion, “Iolanthe”, April 23 and 24, 
will benefit the Young Men and 
Young Women’s Christian Asso­
ciations Building Fund.
When the moon’s shining bright 
And the party’s just right... 
, To top off the night—have a CAMEL!
It's a psychological fact: Pleasure helps
your disposition. If you're a smoker, 
remember — more people get more 
pure pleasure from Camels than 
from any other cigarette!
No other cigarette is 
so rich-tasting, yet so mild!
a. Fa R«n»id. I'Mm o*., ». <

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 15, 1955
Editorial—
Chest Complimented
If money raised by the Campus Chest is 
proportional to the time spent in planning and 
publicizing the drive, this year’s Chest should 
be the most successful in Tech’s history.
The Tartan has in recent weeks printed 
a series of articles designed to acquaint its 
readers with the aims of the Chest and to 
describe the agencies helped by student con­
tributions. The Campus Chest Organization 
publicity directors have blanketed the cam­
pus with posters and pamphlets. To further 
stimulate interest in the campign, the Chest 
has accepted the Pitt challenge to a participa­
tion contest and will concentrate on 100% 
student participation rather than on reaching 
a predetermined dollars goal.
The campaign began last Sunday evening 
with a “kickoff” dessert at Morewood Gar­
dens. Solicitations began in earnest on Mon­
day and will continue throughout this week.
Past Chest drives often have flopped from 
the beginning or have fizzled out around the 
halfway mark; in any event they have sel­
dom attained their goals. We hope that this 
year’s campaigners will not fumble the kick- 
off. We sincerely believe that they will not
Some 300 student leaders will canvass the4--------------------------
campus this week, each contacting nine students from among 
his own friends and classmates. “Operation Commuter” solici­
tors from this group will approach some 1600 commuters 
for donations. Everyone listed in the “C” Book should be 
reached by this weekend.
Countless hours went into organizing the campaign, from 
publication to collection io a tentative allocation of net re­
turns. For example, to facilitate collecting, two secretarial 
classes spent two days preparing a list of commuters by dis­
tricts. Fraternity and sorority leaders gave freely of their 
evenings and weekends to plan collections methods within 
their groups. Solcitors spent valuable time receiveing instruc­
tions.
The outcome of the drive will be most attributable to its 
organizers. We of the Tartan anticipate a successful Chest 
drive, and our hat is off to Janet Bishop for her tireless efforts 
as chairman and to Evelyn Alessio for her fine job of pub­
licity. We will not further “plug” the Campus Chst, except to 
remind that this is a “once for all” drive, the only organized 
charity campaign of the year. We only wish to commend the 
Chest workers for a job well done. Perhaps next week we can 
commend the students. R.F.
Little Man On Campusby Bibler
'AND THE SECOND THING YOU SHOULD LfARN TO VO JSTOTAKf CGiTiClSM*
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
It was my privilege to spend a few hours in the studios of WRCT 
last week. I was amazed. In four years WRCT has changed from 
a haphazard organization to a smooth running radio station. The 
records are new and the best that can be found, the announcers are 
all sane and of a sound caliber, and horseplay is kept to a minimum. 
Transmitting facilities have been improved to the point where nearly 
everyone living on campus, including the fraternity men, can enjoy 
this campus service. The people of WRCT deserve a- round of ap­
plause for a job well done.
* * * *
Then there’s the story about the clerk in the airlines office at 
Los Angeles who recently answered her phone and heard a thick,
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
Ul'wum 1-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SC hen ley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech* 
aology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Edit«r-ia «Chief ...........................................................................................................Robert Russell
Business Manager ..................................................................................................................Vic Shiry
News Editor .....................................................................................................Mar jo King
Bports Editor........................................................................................................................Tom Wright
Copy Editor ......................................................................................................................Richard Fox
Features Editor.......................................................................................... Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business Manager—Marty Ostroff. Advertising Manager—Bob Sorkin.
Circulation Manager—Harley Bembach.
Reporters—Evelyn Alessio, Anne Mehler, Pat Michell, Arthur Marino, Kay 
Melen yzer. Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Barbara Hoenstine, Janet Buvinger, Ann Forest, 
Joan Coprich, Jo Todes, En Harriet Chang, Bob Smith, Bud Palmer, George Bangs, 
Anna Hatsfeld. Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn, Marlene Daehnert, Susie Stryker, 
AI Ft-ierowicz, Gene Anderson, Bob Jack, Joe Batson. Features Staff—Joe Szewc, 
Luis DeLa Macorra, Ron MacFarlane. Sports Staff—James Lacey, Dick Swaney, 
Gerald Pittler Bob Hoppe. Photographers—John Russell, Phil Rathke, Stan Zawa- 
dowicz. Art Staff—Ron Fritts, Mike Barkman, Dave Stea. Copy Staff—Ed Rogers,
Bill Mowiy, Wade Biggs, Ed Holsten. Office Staff—Carol Millsom, Anne Barnes,
Mai> Langdon, Ruth Knott. Copy Runners—Jim Kelly, Vic Oburg. Circulation 
Staff Ira Levine, Jerry Kreuzer, Robert Peters. Advertising Staff—Herbert 
Kreindler. Alan Hodel. Myron Wagmeister, A1 Goldstein.
Entered as second class matter on Ocwoer 4, 1907, at the Post Office at
Pittsburgh, Pa. under act of March 3, 1878. Accepted for mailing at special
rates of postage provided for In the act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College 
p .blithers representative, 420 Madison Ave., Naw York City. Subscriptions *1.10 
per year.
inebriated voice say:
“Wouldja pleash tell me how much it costs to 
fly to San Diego.*
“Twelve dollars, sir,” replied the girl.
“O.K.—just a minute, operator” answered the 
tipsy one. N\
Suddenly there came a series of heavy and 
light rings as the caller, blissfully unaware of the 
girl’s protests, dutifully dropped the money in the 
pay telephone slot, 
money in the pay telephone slot.* * * *
Attention bridge players. A veteran (army 
veteran) claims that he has developed a system 
of bidding whereby he can tell the exact cards in 
his partner’s hand after the bidding has progressed 
three times around the board. It seems he came 
upon this method while stationed in Germany the 
past two years. Sounds great, I wonder if it works?* * * * .
Little quickies: A nice crowd followed the
team up to Latrobe last Friday night. It wasn't as 
cold as was expected and everyone was relatively 
comfortable. This Saturday we take on West-
minster at Forbes Field. A win could garner the 
Class “B” Championship for Tech . . . Epigram 
of the week: The most difficult thing for most 
coeds to grasp about college is a boy ... I sin­
cerely hope that John Rohan’s injuries suffered 
in the St. Vincent Game were not serious . . . The 
Quantico Marines will play the Tech basketball 
squad on December 16 in Skibo Gym.
* * » *
The number of Hi-Fi sets on campus is on 
the increase. Approximately 40 men now on cam­
pus possess these marvels most of them having 
been built from spare radio parts. This is an 
amazing reflection of the creative inguenity of 
Tech students. The only gripe is when two men on 
a floor put different records on and turn their 
sets up full blast. The walls shake and windows 
rattle, but usually the men keep these shennani- 
gans to a minimum.
Inquiring Reporter—
Chest Drive
By Sally Day
Ev>eryone has read articles concerning the Cam­
pus Chest Drive, and by now the students know 
just what the drive is. The TARTAN thought stu­
dents woidd like to know what their classmates 
think¦ about this all-campus activity. After ask­
ing why we, as students, should contribute to Cam­
pus Chest, the TARTAN came up with these an­
swers.
Carolyn Copp, Senior P & D—The Campus Chest 
drive is the best way to contribute to the organiza­
tions which have been screened and selected. Much 
thought has been given to the selection of these. 
Also, you are part of the school giving to a cause, 
and therefore, you. are representing the school as 
well as yourself. This one drive is a convenience, 
for you can donate to all these organizations in 
one lump sum.
Jan Renshaw, Junior MMCC Chemistry—We are 
adults now, and so we should assume the respon­
sibility for other less fortunate people. The Drive 
provides one common gogl. This will provide a 
common bond of interest if all the departments 
strive for this goal. I certainly think we should try 
to meet the challenge given to us by Pitt.
Bill Zakowicz, Senior EE—The Campus Chest is 
a non-profit organization dedicated to the welfare 
of needy students, needy groups, and needy people 
throughout the world. Since practically every in­
dividual on campus is better off financially than 
a tremendous number of other people, they have 
the ability to help others. I feel that they should 
realize a social and moral obligation to help these 
people. Our Chest Drive is one which takes the 
place of all the little drives that each charitable 
organization might sponsor. Normally, a student 
would give a dime or a quarter to each one of these 
organizations unthinkingly. It ¡seems to me that 
the students might take this into consideration when 
they fill their envelopes this year.
Barb Meyers, Sophomore Secretarial—We have 
to learn to take responsibility as adults. The Cam­
pus Chest fosters this feeling of doing good and 
helping others less fortunate. We should take into 
consideration the fact that we are only asked to 
contribute once a year, and are not hounded by 
many organizations. Therefore, we should make 
our contributions substantial enough to cover all 
organizations that need our help.
Joseph A. Szewc, Senior Mech. E.—It is the re­
sponsibility of all men to help those who are less 
fortunate than themselves. The Campus Chest is 
“the” way of contributing to many organizations 
that help the poverty-stricken. By helping these 
people we better the society in which we live, there­
by assisting and furthering our own cultural de­
velopment.
Letters—
Whitfield Defended
Editor, the Tartan:
It was with my customary fervor and bound­
less energy that I scanned your October 18 issue. 
I avidly read each and every line. Up to page 
seven, I was more than satisfied with your journal­
istic abilities. On page seven I stopped.
How, I ask, could anyone make such a mis­
take! Here, in black and white, was a reference 
to my domain which could nought but give the 
world to believe that a catastrophe had occurred. 
That somewhere in the hustle and bustle of gradu­
ate politics, a “new regime . . . now referred to 
as the Czars” (See Campus Fever) had undermined 
my previous domination of ‘‘beautiful Whitfield” 
and installed itself as supreme arbiter of all I 
formerly surveyed.
To rectify this heinous mistake, I am writing 
you to reaffirm my status as elder statesman and 
lord of Whitfield Hall and graduate social events. 
Literally, I say, it will be over my dead body that 
any upstart will even challenge my domination. 
| You need only to survey my boundless enthusi- 
! asm, unmitigated activity, and most fruitful ambi­
tion, to see that this challenge is a long way off.
Sincerely Yours,
Abercrombie J. Wellington Phugg
Grad. Chemist
Notas De Un Orentem/
By Luis de la Macorra
In last week’s column I gave you something to 
think about. It was a question regarding the much 
needed improvement in the faculty-student rela­
tionship. I doubt whether all of you understand 
the problem. Let’s discuss it this. week.
I have heai*d many of the girls from Margaret 
Morrison saying that they don’t feel free to talk 
to their instructors. It is not always the girl’s 
fault, but sometimes the instructor’s. Maybe the 
girls are treated like high school kids and not like 
what they really are: college women. Maybe the 
girls are just brushed off due to a lack of interest 
by the instructors.
On the other hand some of the girls do be­
have like high school kids, but this does not mean 
that all the rest should be treated as such. On the 
contrary, these few who are not yet mature enough 
for college should receive special attention from all 
their instructors. They should be taught how to 
think and how to act; in other words, they should 
be helped on the road to maturity.
With respect to the male population of the 
school, you will find exactly the same problem. 
Everyone knows that much of what we learn comes 
from other people and the rest from books. Our 
instructors know more than we do, not only in their 
own field but in many others. In class we will 
learn only the particular course they teach. Thus, 
it is outside of class that we are going to learn 
about other matters, and we must learn how to 
make good use of such an opportunity.
Student Prejudice and Misunderstandings
For example, a faculty point of view is that 
many of the students come to class with a certain 
prejudice against the instructors. They assist in 
classes with a completely antagonistic attitude, as 
if the most important thing for an instructor was 
to fail ninety percent of his class. Nothing could 
be further from the truth. But this idea still persists 
and until we do something about it. the main prob­
lem will continue to exist.
On the other hand, there is the students’ point 
[Continued on page 7]

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 15, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
On Campus
with
Maxôhuîman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek,” etc.)
THE TRUE AND TRAGICAL TALE OF 
HAPPY JACK SIGAFOOS
Who would have thought that Happy Jack Sigafoos, the boy 
the sky never rained on, would ever teeter on the edge of a life ©f crime?
Certainly there was no sign of it in his boyhood. His home 
life was most tranquil and uplifting. His mother was a nice 
plump lady who hummed a lot and gave baskets to the poor. His 
father was a highly respected citizen who could imitate more 
than four hundred bird calls and once saved an elderly widow 
from drowning in his good suit. (That is, Mr. Sigafoos was in 
his good suit; the elderly widow was in swimming trunks.)
........tttíiafañ
Happy Jack’s life was nothing short of idyllic—until he went 
off to college.
In college Happy Jack quickly became a typical freshman- 
tweedy, seedy, and needy. He learned the joys of rounding out 
his personality, and he learned the cost. His allowance vanished 
like dew before the morning sun. There were times, it grieves 
me to report, when he didn’t even have enough for a pack of 
Philip Morris—and you know how miserable that can be! To be 
deprived of Philip Morris’s gentle flavor, its subtly blended 
tastiness, its trauma-repairing mildness, its ineffable excellence 
—why, it is a prospect to break the heart in twain!
Happy Jack tried to get more mohey from home. He wrote 
piteous and impassioned letters pointing out that the modern 
large-capacity girl simply could not be maintained on his meagre 
allowance. But all Jack got from home were tiresome homilies 
about thrift and prudence.
Then one day a sinister sophomore came up to Jack and said, 
"I know how you can get more money from home.” Jack said, 
'‘How?" and the sinister sophomore handed him a sheet of 
paper. “For one dollar,” said the sinister sophomore, “I will sell 
you this list of fiendishly clever lies to tell your father when you 
need extra money.”
Jack read the list of fiendishly clever lies:
1. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to buy a new 
house for the Dean of Men.
2. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to buy a head­
stone for Rover, our late, beloved dormitory watchdog.
S. A bunch,of us fellows are getting together to buy the college 
a new fullback.
U. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to endow a chair 
of fine arts.
5. A bunch of us fellows are getting together to build our own 
space satellite.
For a moment, poor Jack was tempted; surely his father could 
not but support all these worthy causes. Then Jack’s good up­
bringing came to the fore. He turned to the sinister sophomore 
and said, “No, thank you. I could not deceive my aged parent so. 
And as for you, sir, I can only say—Fie!”
Upon hearing this, the sinister sophomore broke into a huge 
grin. He whipped off his black hat and pasty face-and who do 
you think it was? None other than Mr. Sigafoos, Happy Jack’s 
father, that’s who!
“Good lad,” cried Mr.-Sigafoos. “You have passed your test 
brilliantly.” With that he gave Happy Jack a check for a half 
million dollars and a red convertible containing four nubile 
maidens.
Crime does not pay! s**“*“»"'1946
The makers of Philip GREEYH, Sponsors of thit column, could not agree 
more. But tee'll tell you what does pay — smoking America's gentle 
tigarette . . . new Philip Morris, of corrist
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: 
WALL* DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0*42 or Ali 1-8200
"the
ireshroent-*
re
Pepsi-Cols Metropolitan Bottling C#., Pltt»b»r*li 1«, P*.
Satisfaction
By Frumpton Smith
I sat there considering my plight over a cup of 
coffee. It was a listless day; a day almost con­
ductive to going to classes. Almost-, but not quite. 
As I recrossed my sleeping legs and doodled on 
the table, I felt a strange sensation thrill my body. 
She was here. In all her inimatable glory she had 
burst upon the scene like a bubble dancer lrom 
a cake at a stag pa>ty. She rushed up to me 
lumpity-lump fast, her eyes blazing with excite­
ment.
“Darling Frumpy,” she exclaimed, “how I have 
missed you.”
I quickly put my cigarette out in my coffee and 
took a swallow from the ash tray. I wheezed, 
sneezed, and then turned a horrible purple.
“Oh Frump, how you do carry on,” she giggled.
“Anything to please you my dear.*’
“Frumpvkins, will you do something for me,” 
she cooed.
I sighed a hearty sigh. For Eva Alesovitch I 
would jump from the highest bridge, climb the 
tallest mountain, even give up my daily dope shots. 
Her magnificent complexion was comparable to a 
butterscotch sundae with whipped cream and a 
cherry on top. Her lips were as delicate as a rose 
bud. Her shape was like . . . was like ... I 
sighed a hearty high.
She ran her fingers through my hair and I 
could feel my shoelaces coming untied. She pulled 
my earlobe and my collar pin fell out. She touched 
my nose and my knee socks slowly rolled to my 
ankles.
“You do know what the Campus Chest is,” 
she murmured.
Her voice was like honey.
“Of course,” I lied. I had always been wild 
about her. Her shape was like . . . was like . . .
“Frumpy, are you well? Your eyes look so 
blooshot. And you aren’t looking at me.” “Look at 
me,” she commanded.
I looked.
“Now what are you thinking?”
How could I tell her what I wa sthinking?
“Well, will you write them for me,” she asked.
“Write what?” My pulse quickened.
“Will you write a series of articles urging the 
students to give to the Campus Chest.”
“Yes, but I’d much rather write what I’m think­
ing.
Since I was a dunce about the Campus Chest, 
she explained it all to me. How the World Uni­
versity Service uses part of the Campus Chest 
donations to further underprivileged students, how 
part of the money is allotted to worthwhile chari­
ties, the Red Cross, the Community Chest, etc.
She informed me that at no other time in the 
year would the students be asked to give money 
to any organization during the school year, and 
that á challenge from the hated Pitt had to be met.
I agreed to write and donate to the Campus 
Chest for a big luscious kiss. This, Eva promised 
me, and I enjoyed my smackeroo. Donate to the 
Campus Chest.
tContinued from page 6J 
of view. It primar ily consists of the lack of interest 
that the instructors have for the student. This lack 
of interest from the faculty is divided in two ways. 
First, many of the instructors do not care at all 
about the extracurricular activities in general and 
how they effect the student. Second, they do not 
care about their students as individuals but only as 
a group. Many of the instructors do not show a 
particular and personal interest in their students 
which is one of the basic factors to get them in­
terested in their course.
I am not here to criticize the faculty or any of 
its members. Neither am I the one to give a so­
lution to the problem looking at it from the faculty 
side. I am just expanding the facts as they are. 
But as far as the students are concerned, we know 
that the best way to eradicate any evil is by killing 
it at its roots. Thus we must stress the point to all 
the freshmen, and even to the sophomores, that an 
instructor is here to help us.
Importance of Mentors
A freshman should from the beginning get to 
know his faculty mentor. Many times it will hap­
pen, and it should, that a friendship is developed 
between the mentor and the student. And often 
throughout the four years of college, the student 
will continue to come up to his old mentor with 
problems or question. I heartily commend this 
practice, but shouldn’t it be the same with the in­
structors of our own departments?
One of the best opportunities that we have and 
don’t use is the knowledge that the graduate 
student instructors could pass to us. Many times it 
will happen that such an instructor is only a few 
years older than we are and thus is easier to get 
along with than an older professor.
So as to end this formal discussion let me add 
that it really would be a good idea for all con­
cerned to think about this problem, not only from 
the point of view that it will make life much nicer 
for everyone, but also from the benefits we might 
derive from such an improvement.
WRCT This Week
Tuesday, Nov. 15—8:00 p.m. — Album of 
Favorites. A program of semi-classics and old favor­
ites will be presented by Vic Nelson and Blake 
Berning.
Wednesday, Nov. 16—9:00 p.m.—Bob Marik, 
Stephanie Mackay, and Dee Beede present a sec­
ond program in respect to Campus Chest.
Wednesday, Nov. 16—11:00 p.m.—Lucky Strike 
cigarettes present two hours of the latest hits on 
Night Train, featuring Jim Frawley.
Friday, Nov. 18—7:30 p.m.—Tim Day brings to 
you an hour and a half of progressive Jazz on Jam 
Session.
Saturday, Nov. 19—11:30 to 3:00—Marshall Pihl 
with late hour mood music spends the evening in 
the Ivory Tower.
Sunday, Nov. 20—9:00 p.m.—Vic Schmidt in 
Music of the Masters will bring to you music and 
anecdotes from the Imperial Russia.
New ARROW Gabonaro.. •
styled for campus wear
lì
/ ' . . p,’ 
f jL . ¦ V "
/VSA campus style survey produced this 
smart medium-spread collar—just the 
neat yet casual shirt you’ll want for daft 
or informal dates. It’s made in your 
exact collar size and sleeve length 
too—for perfect fit.
Smart new colors, with matching pearl 
luster buttons, saddle stitching around 
collar edge, button thru pockets.
In rayon gabardine, “Sanforset”, $5.93%
I W^-ARROW-
CASUAL WEAR 
—first in fashion
Campus Headquarters lor Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. - Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

KEEP AIERT FOR A 
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
Don’t let that “drowsy feel­
ing” cramp your style in class 
... or when you’re "hitting 
the books”. Take a NoDoz 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
you’ll be your normal best... 
wide awake . . . alert! Youf 
doctor will tell you—NoDo? 
Awakeners are safe as coffee. 
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c ^
-PWBeta”GRR Mi L'JM +
35 tablets irmont,W in Iwwiy tin g I # Ifl ll lf A
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
Pagre 8—CARNÊGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 15, 1955
St. Vincent Ties Tech
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
Week of November 19, 1955
TeamScoreTeamScore
By Jim Lacey ?
An aroused St. Vincent Bearcat : 
caught the Carnegie Tartans off- I 
guard. The Bearcats held the -fa- j 
vored Tartans to a 7-7 tie at 
Bearcat Stadium before 5,000 fans.
The Bearcats struck for a touch­
down with a 54-yard pass from 
Ron Haushalter to Don Shalala on 
the last play of the first half. Sha­
lala took the pass on the 19-yard 
marker behind the last Tech de­
fender and outraced him to the 
goal. Bob Wrabley, from the kick­
ing position, passed to Willard 
Fox for the extra point that al­
lowed S.V.C. to take a 7-0 lead to 
the dressing room at half-time. 
Tech Scores
Tech tied the score the first 
time they got the ball in the second 
half. They moved 69 yards in 15 
plays as Marshall Brown, Roy De 
Vries, and Tom Briner powered 
their way with the help of the line 
through the St. Vincent defense. 
Ace Adams punched into the end 
zone from the one on a quarter­
back sneak at 6:50 of the third 
quarter. Roy DeVries’ conversion 
sailed through the uprights tying 
the score.
Tech dominated the rest of the 
game, but they couldn’t score. The 
closest they came was the S.V.C. 
12 where the drive stalled. An off­
side penalty by Tech on the 18 
helped the Bearcats contain the 
Tartan offense and take over on 
the 12.
Early in the second quarter, 
Tech moved deep into St. Vin­
cent’s territory from their own 29. 
The long gainer in this series was 
a double reverse, Adams to De 
Vries to “Jeep” Myers who raced 
from the Bearcats’ 41 to the 17. 
At this point the Tartans scored 
what they thought was a touch­
down on a pass from Adams to 
Ken Ficery all alone in the end 
zone. The official d iscerned that 
Adams had thrown the pass from 
in front of the line of scrimmage 
which constitutes a five-yard pen­
alty and cost Tech a touchdown.
Passing: Accentuated
Both teams wrent all out in the 
passing game to try to gain the 
victory. St. Vincent connected on 
9 of 26 passes for 115 yards and 
Tech hit on 8 out of 17 for 99 
yards. Tech outdowned the Bear­
cats, 17 to 11, but couldn’t get the 
first down when they needed it.
The rough play between the two 
teams resulted in one serious in­
jury and other minor bumps and
Ace Adams is shown picking up two yards for the Tartans. The 
St. Vincent line held Tech to short gains most of the evening.
bruises. John Kohan, sophomore 
center from Clairton, received a 
broken nose and a concussion and 
had to be taken to the hospital.
The Tartans en^. their season 
this week when they "meet the 
Westminster Titans coached by 
Harold Burry at Forbes Field. This 
meeting is a crucial one for both 
teams because this game will de­
cide the Class B championship. 
The Titans go into the game with a
6-0-1 record and Tech has a rec­
ord of 5-1-1.
Statistics
CARNEGIE ST. VINCENT
183 .... Yards gained rushing ....135
17 .....................First Downs......................11
17 ........... Passes Attempted .............26
8 ........... Passes Completed ............ 9
99 .... Yards Gained Passing ....115 
1 .... Passes Intercepted by .... 1
6. .Average Yards of Punt Returns.. 20 
18. . Average yds. of Kickoff Returns.. 19
20. .. .Yards Lost on Penalties ____ 60
St. Vincent .. 0 7 0 0—7
Carnegie Tech .0 0 7 0—7
Touchdowns: Adams. Point after Touch­
down; DeVries.
Carnegie Tech
Pittsburgh
Princeton
Tennessee
Vanderbilt
U.C.L.A.
West Virginia
Duke
Harvard
Illinois
Purdue
Lafayette
Ohio State
Michigan State
Nebraska
Westminster 
Penn State 
Dartmouth 
Kentucky 
Florida 
So. Calif. 
Syracuse 
Wake Forest 
Yale
Northwestern
Indiana
Lehigh
Michigan
Marquette
Oklahoma
NAME........................................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1956 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTsiN’S weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school tnail box, addressed to the TARTAN All coupons 
must be entered by pnidnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day’s games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
of the game. Entries will De iudged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible lor consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each week’s contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re­
deemable at the time of publication.YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
the dcu/</fxt
1. SUPERIOR FILTER Only L&M gives you 
the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the 
purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white 
... all white ... pure white!
&
2. SUPERIOR TASTE L&M’s superior taste 
comes from superior tobaccos — especially 
selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are 
richer, tastier ... and light and mild.
CMCtotoeto
IM Water Polo
Entries are due for water
polo on November 21. Play 
begins on November 28. Sign 
up for practice sessions on the 
intramural bulletin board.
* Mnu paignaa da

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 15, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 9
WAA News
Tech senior Diane Farrington 
was one of 11 Tri-State coeds se­
lected by the Pittsburgh Field 
Hockey Association to play on 
the Pittsburgh area girls’ hockey 
team.
Playing on the team were repre- 
> sentatives of several local and 
West Virginia colleges. Diane and 
her teammates played against the 
Finger Lakes and Harrisburg 
teams on November 12 and 13 at 
Sewickley Academy in the mid­
east sectional tournament.
The pretty, dark-haired hockey 
player is looking forward to the 
possibility of gaining a place on 
the all-American hockey team, 
which will tour Australia this 
I year. Diane, a resident of New 
Castle, Pa., is president of both 
the Women’s Athletic Associa­
tion and the Dormitory Council 
and is a member of Mortar Board 
at Tech.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Contest Won By- 
Warren Jones
As the football season is slowly 
drawing to a close, the experts 
of Carnegie Tech are making the 
football contest a hot and heavy 
thing. Even the major upsets of 
the week do not seem to foil 
some of the Techites. This week’s 
winner was Warren A. Jones, 
who failed to choose only three 
winners correctly. His wrong 
choices were, the Tech-St. Vin­
cent 7-7 tie, Pitt’s smashing vic­
tory over West Virginia and the 
bad showing of the Cincinnati 
Bearcats, who went down to de­
feat 55-20.
Arrangements have been made 
with the 1956 Thistle officers and 
we are now contacting all the 
winners and sending them a cer­
tificate for next year’s Thistle.
highly competitive. Two games 
will be played on a home-and- 
away basis with Duquesne, Pitt, 
West Virginia, Penn State, W&J, 
Geneva, and Westminster. In ad­
dition to Youngstown, single 
games will be played with Thiel, 
Indiana S.T.C., Bucknell, Slippery 
Rock, and Case. December 16 is 
a pending date and is expected 
to be filled by a top-notch team 
very shortly.
IM Volleyball
The volleyball season is off and 
running. Last year’s champs, 
ATO, are back to defend their 
crown and the boys on the cor­
ner have high hopes of repeating 
last year’s performance. How­
ever, they have lost many of their 
key men through graduation.
With 22 teams participating 
this year, it has been necessary 
to set up four leagues. From the 
Tartans scouting reports it looks 
like the Kappa Sigs, Delts and 
the Grad “Mesons’ will be the 
top teams in the Tartan League. 
In the Kiltie League, the Physics’ 
Grads, Kappa Alpha and Kappa 
Sigs “A.C.” look like the teams 
to beat for a position in the play­
offs. Opposing the defending 
champs, ATO, for the Skibo 
League honors will be Sigma Nu 
and the Obelisks. In the Plaid 
League, last year’s runner up, Phi 
Kappa, will find their toughest 
games to be against Wilmerding 
“A.C.” and the Faculty Bulldogs.
More fun on the 
tmin...mdthe
¿Bugs all hem
Got plans for a grand holi­
day? Then don’t let 'em be 
ruined by traffic jams or 
foul-weather delays. Get 
your homeward bound 
friends together and make 
it a holiday all the way . .. 
by train! It's tops in trans­
portation . . . comfortable, 
roomy and so dependable* 
with refreshments and 
delicious meals en route!
Save 25% or More
Stretch your allowance by 
traveling back home with 
two or more friends on 
group coach tickets.* On 
most trips of 100 miles of 
more, you tack save 25% 
of the usual round -trip fate. 
Better still, round up 25 oc 
more to travel long-dis­
tance together on the same 
homeward train. Tkea 
return singly or together, 
and you each save 28% of 
the regular round-trip fare.
*Exttpt ftr Utsl trsttl It Hue a N*wYtrk-Wsihtmfttm ttnd Mir tfLsncmtttr, Pa.
ur your travel or tick«* 
NOW IA about Hi»n 
big money savin« plan* f
EASTERN
RAILROADS
Skibo 4Five9 
Shaping Up
By Joe Szewc
As the sports scene at Car­
negie Tech slowly shifts from 
football to basketball, Skibo gym 
is echoing with 28 men running 
through preliminary drills in an 
effort to shape-up for the season 
opener on December 1 against 
Youngstown College.
Coach Mel Cratsley will floor 
an experienced Tartan squad. 
Back for their fourth year on the 
varsity are Jimmy Boyd, former 
high scorer for the Tartans, Dick 
Fieler, one hand push shot artist, 
and Ralph Mocker, a set shot 
expert. Also returning are Alan 
Frank, a junior and excellent re­
bounder, Charlie Goetz, a 6’4” 
center, and senior Wayne Nathan- 
son, a letterman and consistently 
improving ball handler. All these 
men, with the exception of Goetz, 
have at least two years varsity 
experience with the Plaid.
Players moving up from the 
freshman baskeeball team of last 
year are: Frank Sobolewski, a 
6’5”, 185 pound sophomore from 
Steubenville, Ohio; James Knapp, 
a sophomore printing manage­
ment student from Salem, Ore­
gon; and Dave Densmore and 
Harry Rupert. Densmore and Ru- 
| pert both stand 5’10” and are the 
smallest men on the team.
Tech’s schedule this season is
A Campus-to-Career Case History
It sounded good to me
Charles Poole, B.S. in Business Ad­
ministration, Boston University, ’52, is 
working for New Jersey Bell Telephone 
Company as a Traffic Superintendent. 
For a young man he has a lot of respon­
sibility. And responsibility is what he 
likes. He has three New Jersey ex­
changes under his supervision—Dover, 
Madison and Washington—which total 
nearly 16,000 customers, and he man­
ages a force of some 160 operators, in­
cluding nine chief operators and fifteen 
service assistants.
«It’s the type of job," says Charlie, 
happily, «where you can never say 
you’re caught up. There’s always some­
thing to do.” Each day brings Charlie 
new problems, new experiences. And 
with every passing day his grasp of the 
telephone business is getting stronger, 
his value to the company is growing.
That spells the kind of future that 
Charlie wants: the opportunity to take 
an ever-increasing part in an ever-ex­
panding business.
44It sounded good to me,” Charlie says, 
remembering what he thought when the 
telephone interviewer had finished tell­
ing him about the company and its fu­
ture. And, as you might expect, it still 
sounds good to him.
Charlie Poole is typical of the many young men 
who are building careers in telephone work. Sim­
ilar opportunities exist today with other telephone 
companies, and also with Bell Telephone Labora­
tories, Western Electric and Samlia Corporation. 
Your placement officer has the details.
EYHH
OYHYGUNDY
e•eOY«
Fedor Most Valuable
IM Football Play er
By Don McClelland
SAE’s field general Mike Fedor, an all-league choice for the 
past three years, was voted the most valuable player of the just 
completed intramural football season. Fedor, since replacing Ned 
Clark at quarterback in the 53 season, has led his house to two 
undefeated regular seasons in the4—--------------———------------------- ---------
past three years. Besides leading 
his team on offense, Fedor was 
also an outstanding defense man. 
In an era when even intramural 
teams use the two platoon system, 
Mike’s double role was a strong 
influence in his winning the M.V.P.
| award.
L All-Star Team
r As could be expected, the final­
ists, DTD and KS, dominated the 
offensive all-star team, each plac­
ing two men. Their men were two 
fine passing combinations, KS’s
Back ...........................Pascarella, KS
Back......................Laughery, DTD
Defense
End ................................ Major, ATO
End ...................... Dickinson, DTD
Center ........................... Sowell, KS
Back ............... Branscome, DU
Back ........................Raymond, PKA
Back.................................Thomas, PK
Tartan League
End ...:....................... Mihm, DTD
End .................................... Roy, ATO
Center.........................Achilles, ATO
Back................................Wilton, DTD
Back.....................Raymond, PKA
Back ....................... Laughery, DTD
Kiltie League
End ......................Zimmerman, SN
End ................................. Saxton, KS
Center.......................... Pasierb, KS
Back...........................Pascarella, KS
Back .............................. Sowell, KS
Back ............................... Caffee, SN
Skibo League 
End ......... B. McElhinney, PK
End.............................. Cooper, SAE
Center...............Taylor, Stat. Ch.
Back ............................. Fedor, SAE
Back ........... Branscome, DU
Back -........................... Hvizdos, PK
Fedor
Pascarella to Pasierb, and quarter­
back Laughery to Mihm for the 
Delts. Fedor and the ATO’S glue­
fingered end, Jerry Roy, rounded 
out the offensive unit.
P The defensive team picked pre­
sents a formidable array which 
our mythical offensive team would 
have difficulty penetrating. Bill 
Branscome, D U back, and Dick 
Major, ATO end, were the leading 
vote getters for the defensive 
team. Ths rest of the team is 
comprised of Sewell, KS, and 
Dickinson, DTD, at ends; and 
Raymond, PKA, and Thomas, PK, 
in the backfield.
| In addition to the all-school 
teams, all-star teams were picked 
from each of the three leagues. 
Those responsible for the good (or 
bad) selections (according to your 
feelings) were the I. M. Board 
and the Managers’ Club.
All School Team 
Offense
End .............................. Mihm, DTD
End........................................Roy, ATO
Center ..........................Pasierb, KS
? Back..............................Fedor, SAE

---------------------------------------------------

Why Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr. 
reads The Reader’s Digest
Page 10—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 15, 1955
Review Of Will Herberg Lecture 
“This Is Not A New Concept”
By John Barclay
On Tuesday and Wednesday of last week, Mr. Will Herberg, 
lecturer and author of several important books on the sociological 
aspects of religion in America, visited the Carnegie campus under 
the sponsorship of the Tech chapter of Hillel Foundation. The general
theme of his more than half-dozen^ ——--------------------------------------------
lectures and discussions (of which
this reviewer was able to attend 
but three) was the necessity for a 
personal concept of God to suc­
cessfully meet the problem of liv­
ing.
In his Tuesday morning lecture 
before the religious assembly, Mr. 
Herberg devoted his alloted half- 
hour to a study of anxiety, its 
causes and cures, breaking anxi­
ety into three separate levels. The 
first form of anxiety, he stated, is 
externally engendered and can be 
alleviated through the application 
of advancing science and technol­
ogy. A second type of anxiety 
comes from within us: it is the 
neurotic anxiety which we all 
have in greater or lesser degree 
and it is susceptible of solution, 
at least in theory, through psycho­
therapy.
Anxiety From Existence .
There is, however, a more funda­
mental form of anxiety and ten­
sion, generated, Mr. Herberg said, 
by the basic character of human 
existence. Man is a creature, mor­
tal and finite, but he alone of all 
creatures knows this, and longs 
for the immortal and rans-finite. 
Man is free to make his decisions 
(the deterministic school of phil­
osophy would hotly argue this 
point with Mr. Herberg) but not 
free to determine their conse­
quences.
This is not a new concept; Paul 
Tilloch says “we need the cour­
age to be,” and Hollo May, the 
noted psychiatrist and author, de­
fines courage as “the power to meet 
the anxiety engendered by our 
own freedom.”
Problem of Faith
Mr. Herberg sees a vicious cycle 
arising out of the problem of 
faith; Renaissance man attempted 
to live by autonomy-faith in his 
own abilities alone. This inevitably 
led to heteronomy defined as 
faith in a larger collective whole— 
the familiar “self-engulfment” of 
totalitarian systems. In his Wed­
nesday lecture in Mr. Schwarz’ 
C765 philosophy class, Mr. Her­
berg set forth the same problem 
in a somewhat different light. Our 
political system is based upon a 
humanist philosophy of the equal 
worth of the individual, but there 
is no logical basis for such a be­
lief. Men are obviously unequal 
in rationality, creativity, and 
moral and ethical sensibility. Thus, 
a basis for our equalitarian phil­
osophy of government must be 
sought beyond humanism; it can 
be found in God’s equal concern 
for all of humanity.
By accepting God’s Grace, de­
fined by Mr. Herberg as His will­
ingness to accept out unworthi­
ness, and showing faith (a will­
ingness to accept this Grace), 
which faces the negative aspects 
of life courageously, we will be 
able to serve ideals without losing 
ourselves in them. Out of this 
comes courage to venture and risk.
It is obvious that Mr. Herberg’s 
view of God doesn’t square with 
the position of orthodox religion­
ists; we are not dealing here with 
a simple, unquestioning “belief in 
God” but rather an intuitive con­
cept of some unspecified, trans- 
finite being whose existence is not 
susceptible of rational proof. Our 
only reason for believing then is 
to derive a therapeutic value 
which enables us to solve the 
problem of existence and con­
tinue to hold our traditional 
equalitarian views in politics.
Residue
And
Repartee
Camino Real
“I though of Camino Real as a 
sort of fairy tale or masque”, was 
Tennessee Williams’ explanation 
of the play which the Carnegie 
drama department has selected 
as their second presentation of 
this season. Beginning Nov. 15 
the Carnegie campus will have 
the opportunity to view this pro­
duction.
Camino Real stimulated di^ring 
widespread controversy during its 
Broadway run at the National 
Theatre in March of 1953. Thea­
tre patrons were confronted with 
the unreserved praise of such 
notables as Inge, Odets, Reynolds, 
and Steinbeck, countered by the 
scorching criticism of Bentley 
(New Republic), Hewes (Saturday 
Review) and Clurnan (Nation). 
Paul Osborne summed the affirma­
tive comments when describing 
Camino Real “as exciting and mov­
ing theatre as I have ever seen”, 
while J. M. Brown in the Satur­
day Review capsuled the negative 
viewpoint with his forceful re­
view sayiing . . . “if Mr. Williams 
new play is less than little it is 
because Mr. Williams himself has 
apparently abandoned all belief 
in greatness. For this reason what 
Mr. Williams offers us as a play 
in Camino Real is nothing more 
than a flea circus.”
For those persons interested in 
the play’s dramatic structure 
Hewes has commented as follows 
. . instead of diurnal chrono­
logy, (Williams) has substituted 
a feeling of time by dividing the 
play into 16 blocks on the royal
or real Highway (the ambiguity I 
is intentional). Each block corre­
sponds with a French scene (a 
character enters or exits) and is 
announced to the audience . . .”. 
The author explains that such a 
devicv; is used to convey the 
whiplike quality of time.
Among the characters presented 
theatre goers will see Kilroy, an 
American prizefighter and the 
play’s central figure, a beautiful 
and disturbing Camille, lover to 
a fading Casanova, a remorseful 
Byron, a gypsy harridan, and 
lastly, her marketable daughter 
who regains her virginity with 
each full moon. These characters 
are situated in an unnamed tropi­
cal limbo, and . . . well Nov. 15 
at 8:15 p.m. is curtain time.
Music Recital
The highlight of a music de­
partment recital given last Thurs­
day evening, November 10, was 
the premiere performance of 
Donald Paduto’s Introduction and 
Allegro for Brass Ensemble. This 
work ended a festive program in­
cluded compositions of Bach, 
Mozart, Loeillet, Purcell, and 
Handel. The recital was one of a 
series being sponsored by Phi 
Mu Alpha Sinfronia, men’s na­
tional honorary music fraternity.
Mr. Paduto’s piece was enter­
ed in the last season’s Cincin­
nati Conservatory Brass Compo­
sition Awards competition. Out 
of some 200 entries, the Introduc- 
ti and Allegro placed in the top 
ten compositions chosen by the 
contest judges.
The composer, now a senior at 
Tech, has been studying compo­
sition with Nikolai Lopatnikoff, 
faculty member of the Carnegie 
College of Fine Arts. Previous to 
this study, Paduto had served 
for two years as a musical direc­
tor of the Tenth Special Service 
Company, Eighth Army, in the 
Far East.
Mr. Paduto had worked at the 
Julliard School of Music and was 
enrolled at Carnegie Tech for one 
semester prior to his service with 
the Army. After returning to 
Pittsburgh, he re-entered Tech 
where he has been studying for 
three years. For the past two 
years, he has worked in the 
Scotch and Soda productions.
("loderickby McDonald
ENGINEERING THEATER
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 '
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BY 
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto­
motive Engineers fn Conjunc­
tion with AIEE & AICHE
5o million 
times a day 
at home, 
at work or 
on the way
There's 
nothing 
like a
1. FOR TASTE... bright, 
bracing, ever-fresh sparkle.
2. FOR REFRESHMENT... 
quick energy, with
at few calories as half 
an average, juicy grapefruit.
BOTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
6722 Center Avenue Hlland 1*7011
"CoU" to • rtgiiltrid trode-mork. O Wft THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
Blowhard
(Ed. Note: For first printing of this cartoon, see issue of Septem• 
her 21, 1954. Although brother McDonald is no 'longer with us. his 
cartoons are still humorous. Besides, we needed something to fill 
this space.) <
©KARSH OTTAWA
"I am told that the Digest is now published in 12 languages, 
and bought each month by more than 18 million people. By 
strengthening understanding among individuals, the Digest 
helps people of many different nations to share their ex* 
periences and ideals. That is why I, for one, read the Digest 
—and why I believe it helps create the conditions of world 
peace which we aU seek."—From a statement in November 
Reader’s Digest by the U.S. Representative to the United Nations.
In November Reader’s 
Digest don’t miss:
26-PAGE CONDENSATION FROM $3.50 BEST-SELLER: 
“CAPTAIN DREYFUS.” “The Dreyfus Affair,” in 
which France branded an innocent man a traitor, 
is perhaps the most celebrated miscarriage of jus­
tice in modern times. Here—in all its relentless 
drama—is the story of the hysteria-ridden case 
that placed a man, a nation and the very concept 
of justice itself on trial.
THE MAKING OF A WEST POINTER. A visit to the 
United States Military Academy, where “they 
give you a million-dollar education free—and jam 
it down your throat nickel by nickel.”
WHY WOMEN ACT THAT WAY. They are clumsy at 
pitching and running (their bones aren’t built 
like men’s). But they stand cold better than men; 
hear better, too—and change their minds just half 
as often! Scientific facts behind female behavior.
SEVEN WONDERS OF ENGINEERING. Dazzling look 
at America’s seven greatest man-made triumphs.
Get November Reader’s Digest 
at your newsstand today—only 2St
38 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading 
magazines and current books, condensed to save your time.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 15, 1955—CARNEGI ETARTAN—Page 11
JUi/
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................ Dolores Neff
Reporters...............John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy,
Emily Muhic, Chuck Labee
Student Council Plans 
Monte Carlo Carnival
The second social evening of the current school year is drawing 
very close. Have you married students made your arrangements for 
a baby sitter for Saturday, November 19? And you single folks, 
how about bringing your date to this affair? Yes, one week from
this Saturday, the Evening Stu-^---------------------------------------------------------
dent Council will sponsor their
annual Monte Carlo Carnival.
Some of the evening’s festivi­
ties will be roulette wheels, dice 
games, and black jack games. 
Madame Serolod Pfen, NAPR, and 
Sam, the Smai will be there to 
foretell your future. The Black 
Cat Lounge will also be open 
for dancing and refreshments.
Just think, all this for only 
$.75. And there’s even more; 
everyone attending will receive 
$2,000 cash at the door upon en­
tering. Additional $2,000 bundles 
can be purchased at any time 
throughout the evening from the 
girls for $.25 each. Tickets may be 
purchased at the door and from 
any member of the Student 
Council. There will also be some 
tickets in Mr. McKelway’s office. 
Come, bring your friends—let’s 
make this affair worth the time 
and effort that the Council has 
put into it. We have had loads 
of fun planning this, but we need 
YOUR attendance to make it a 
complete success.
Super 
Snooper
Sigma Delta Phi, Evening 
School Fraternity, held an im­
promptu party for their mem­
bers on Saturday evening, No­
vember 5. A few who were pres­
ent were: Ralph Czernek, Kathy 
Galligan, George Schussler and 
his wife, Ray Schwalm and 
Georgette, Bill and Anita Bar- 
toli, and Matt Bertovich. Every­
one had a good time playing 
cards, eating, and just plain 
talking.
“If you ride on your repu­
tation, you’re apt to be 
thrown.”
New potential members present 
at the November 6 Evening Stu­
dent Council meeting were: Walt 
Bachmayer, Bill Bond, and John 
Van Holt, Jr. There are still a 
few openings on Council; so if 
anyone is interested, please get 
in touch with your Plaid Editor, 
“Nothing would be done at 
all, if a man waited till he 
could do it so well that no 
one could find fault with it.’* 
(Cardinal Newman).
Due to the fact that Patricia 
Renkawek is no longer in school, 
Bill Bond has accepted the posi­
tion as assistant social chairman 
of the Evening Student Council. 
“When you slide down the 
Bannister of Life, don’t let 
a splinter puncture your ca­
reer.”
The Christmas assembly will 
be held on Monday evening. De­
cember 19. Don Brucker will be 
the guest soloist, Dr. Warner will 
be the speaker, Sam Gibson will 
give the invocation, and Dolores 
Neff will be at the organ.
“in love, one has the need 
to be believed; in friendship, 
to be understood.”
Mr. McKelway has informed 
us that the geographical location 
roster of evening students is 
ready to be put in the mail this 
week |o the students. This will 
be of great help in finding out
whether any of your fellow stu­
dents are also your neighbors. 
“The history of the world 
is but the biography of great
men.”
The oval court in front of Mar­
garet Morrison is a relic of the 
horse and buggy days. The walk 
between the columns was origin­
ally a driveway and the court was 
a drive-around for the buggies.
Birthday Corner—
* t
Pl•
Happy Birthday to:
Sidney GrossmanNov.15
Ed Thomas99
Charles Taylor99
Paul Whitmore99
James WalkerNov.16
William GoepfertNov.17
John RalstonNov.18
Ralph Stidham99
Lucian Wilkes99
Ed DantineNov.19
Andrew BiresNov.20
Bill Bond99
Richard Bottomley99
Harold Clark99
George Kollen99
Robert McNicol99
James McLellan99
Lester Peterson99
James Thayer99
Nikolays FridenbergsNov.21
Paul Kilhefner99
Harry Thorn99
Sidney Gardner9f
How to give**a girl a sur­
prise: Place your arms around 
her waist. Draw her strongly 
towards you and hold her 
tight. Start to kiss her and 
when she says “Stop!” release 
her. Note the amazement on 
her face!
ES Newman Club 
Spaghetti Dinner 
Is Next Sunday
Attention all you spaghetti eat­
ers! Newman Club is having a 
Spaghetti Dinner on Sunday eve­
ning, November 20. It will be held 
in the Carnegie Union and we 
hope to start serving shortly after 
6:30 p.m. In the past, everyone has 
had a good time and had plenty to 
eat. This year promises to be as 
good as, if not better than before. 
There will be plenty to eat for all 
those who attend. Dinner will con­
sist of: spaghetti and meat balls, 
salad, dessert and coffee, (or tea).
If you plan to attend, please 
contact either John Van Holt or 
Dolores Neff, CIT Box 264, by 
Thursday, November 17. All New­
man Club members have been sent 
cards which they are to return. If 
you have not done so as yet, please 
do it immediately.
Bratl Hunt Band
To Be Featured 
At Military Ball
Plans are now underway for 
one of the most colorful social 
events of the school semester— 
the annual Military Ball. This 
affair is scheduled to take place 
at the Tech Gym on December 
10. Music will be furnished by 
the very popular Brad Hunt Or­
chestra.
Dress for the occasion will be 
formal or military uniform, so 
shake out the old moth balls and 
plan to “trip the light fantastic.”
Further details will appear in 
a future issue of the Plaid as 
plans for the event progresses.
Put a red circle around the date 
of December 10 so that you will 
not be one of the sorry few who 
failed to be there because you 
had “forgotten.”
ATTENTION!!:—STUDENTS
Immediate confirmation of airline reservations to New 
York—November 23—returning November 27—now 
available for the THANKSGIVING holiday. 
Round Trip $35.20 (including tax)
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5800 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17, Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
Dave Johnson asks:
What’s involved 
in production 
work at 
Du Pont?
DAVID L. JOHNSON, JR., expects to receive his B.S.Ch.E. 
from the University of Kansas in 1956. He is very active in 
campus affairs, president of Alpha Chi Sigma and a member of 
several honorary engineering fraternities. Dave is interested in 
learning more about production work in the chemical industry.
Jim Hamilton answers:
JAMES L. HAMILTON is one of the many young
engineers who have been employed by Du Pont 
since the end of the war. After service in the 
Navy, Jim got his B.S.Ch.E. from the University 
of West Virginia in June 1948, and immediately 
joined Du Pont’s Repauno Plant at Gibbstown, 
N. J. Today, he is Assistant Superintendent of 
the dimethyl terephthalate area at this plant.
A MORE COMPLETE ANSWER to Dave John­son’s question about production work is 
given in “The Du Pont Company and the 
College Graduate.” This booklet describes in 
detail the training, opportunities and responsi­
bilities of engineers who take up this kind of 
work at Du Pont. Write for your free copy to 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 
Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
«ts.u.s.rAT.orr.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UVRMO ... THROUGH CHtMISTtY
WATCH "DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV
Well, Dave, I’ve been doing production work at Du Pont 
for about seven years now, and I’m still getting in­
volved in new things. That’s what makes the work so 
interesting—new and challenging problems arise all 
the time.
To generalize, though, the duties are largely admin­
istrative. That’s why effectiveness in working with 
others is one of the prime requirements. Teamwork is 
important in research and development work, for sure. 
But it’s even more important in production, because 
you work each day with people having widely differ­
ent skills and backgrounds.
A production supervisor needs a good understanding 
of engineering and scientific principles, too. He has to 
have that to get the best results from complicated 
equipment—but he doesn’t necessarily need the spe­
cialized training that goes with research and develop­
ment work. A real interest in engineering economics 
and administration is usually more helpful to him 
here than advanced technical training. The dollar 
sign’s especially important in production work.
It all adds up to this, Dave. If you enjoy teamwork, 
and have a flair for large-scale, technical equipment, 
then you’ll find production work mighty rewarding.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 15, 1955
Campus Chest—
[Continued jrom page 11 
students. The Advisory Board has 
proposed allocations of the total 
Campus Chest to the following 
agencies:
Student Welfare 
World University Service ...30% 
National Scholarship and 
and Service Fund for
Negro Students ....................10%
' Special Tech Project ........... 5%
Social Service
American Red Cross ...........25%
Allegheny County Com­
munity Chest ......................20%
Salvation Army ...................... 5%
Medical Research and Relief 
American Cancer Society.... 5%, 
Children’s Hospital of
Pittsburgh .............................. 5%
Heai't House ............................ 5%
Infantile Paralysis .................. 5%
United Nations Interna­
tional Children’s Emerg­
ency Fund ..............................5%
This is the first year since the 
Chest was instituted on Tech’s 
campus in 1949 that such a large 
percentage (almost half) of the 
total funds has been allocated to 
student welfare. (See Page 1 for 
story on Student Welfare Agen­
cies)
As reported earlier in the Tar­
tan, Tech and the University of 
Pittsburgh are competing in re­
gard to the respective Campus 
Chest drives on the two campuses. 
The Pitt Chest has challenged 
Tech on the assumption that Pitt 
will report a greater percentage 
of its students participating 
through contributions in the 
drive as well as a larger average 
contribution per student. Tech’s 
Chest committee has accepted 
the challenge and is confident that 
by attaining its 100% participa­
tion goal, Tech will also “out- 
contribute” the campus across the 
hollow.
Skibo Thermometer 
Alpha Phi Omega Fraternity has 
set up a Campus Chest ther­
mometer in front of Skibo which 
will indicate the percentage of 
students who have contributed to
1
-*l
the Chest from day to day.
The aims of the Campus Chest 
this year are largely to educate 
each student as to the needs of 
the agencies supported by contri­
butions as well as to encourage 
the student to recognize his re­
sponsibility as a member of the 
campus community to university 
students and needy people 
throughout the world.
In addition to the aforemen­
tioned agencies, the Advisory 
Board and Campus Chest Cpm- 
mittee have set aside 5% of the 
total funds the use of which is to 
be determined by suggestions 
from the students, themselves. It 
is hoped that this special project 
will be for the benefits of the 
campus and that the students will 
seriously consider the needs of 
the campus in making their sug­
gestions.
Welfare-
[Continued from page 1J 
Educational Activities
Contributions from students all 
over the world have supported 
the erection of TB sanitariums, 
student hostels, and dormitories; 
provided scholarships for numer­
ous refugee students, supplied 
textbooks and study materials, 
and provided clothing, food, and 
financial aid to many other stu­
dents. In addition, WUS national 
branches sponsored educational ac­
tivities — including conferences, 
seminars, study-tours, student ex­
changes, and research. Of particu­
lar significance were the South­
east Asia WUS leadeship training 
conference, intei'national seminars 
in India and Japan, and a WUS 
study-tour of Europe for selected 
African student leadei's. Thirty 
percent of the total Chest funds 
will be allocated to WUS.
For the Talented
This was a very happy summer 
for Nathaniel LaMar. In June he 
graduated from Harvard College 
with highest honors. A few days 
later the Atlantic Monthly pub­
lished a story by this 21-year-old 
Atlanta, Ga., Negro who wants 
above all, to “be a very good 
writer, very soon.” In addition, 
LaMar won a Henry Fellowship, 
which will take him to Cambridge 
University in the fall for a year of 
study.
LaMar’s success ,as one might 
expect, is largely the result of his 
own talent, work, and upbringing. 
However, the National Scholarship 
Service and Fund for Negro Stu­
dents (to which ten per cent of 
the Chest Funds will go) smooth­
ed the way at a critical point in 
his career. It ’^helped him enter 
a first-rate preparatory school so 
that he could move on to one of 
the best nonsegregated colleges.
NSSFNS takes justified pride 
in having granted $19,985 to 70 
qualified students, most of them 
Southern Negroes, so that they 
could go, this fall, to the sort of 
schools that are rare in most of 
the South.
This year the students of CIT 
have the opportunity to select a 
project to which they would pre­
fer to have five-percent of the 
total funds allocated. This may be 
in any field—Social Service, Med­
ical Relief, Student Welfare, or 
may, as has been suggested by 
the Campus Chest Organization, 
be used for a project or need on 
the Tech Campus. It is hoped that 
the student groups, especially the 
service honoraries, will seriously 
consider this special project, and 
make their suggestions to the so­
licitors who will, in turn, give 
them to the Advisory Board.
T utoring
The Tau Beta Pi tutoring 
courses for the remainder of 
the semester are scheduled as 
follows:
Freshman calculus, S-221, 
Tuesday a* 4:30 p.m. and Fri­
day at 3:30 p.m.; freshman 
chemistry, S-101, Monday at 
3:30 p.m. and Wednesday at 
4:30 p.m.
All classes will be held in 
Room 1217 Engineering Hall.
Conference—
[Continued from page 1] 
achieves the greatest productivity 
and effectiveness. He gains the 
cooperation of his followers by 
knowing them, getting their ideas 
on the aims and goals of jhe or­
ganization, and giving the indi­
vidual a specific job, or a goal to 
work towards. He should define* 
what the end purpose is to be; 
whether it is the people working 
or the goal.
Leadership, as was brought out 
in the last conference, too often 
is given to the good follower who 
really has not had leadership 
training. A leader should be a 
good follower too, but he should 
have experience in handling seri­
ous responsibility. He should not 
be concerned with how he is bene- $»)) 
fiting, but rather should devote his 
efforts to achieving the ultimate 
goal.
T hanks giving
The committee on religious 
activities will sponsor the an­
nual Thanksgiving observance 
which will be held on next 
Tuesday, November 22, at 
11:30 a.m. in the Fine Arts 
Theater.
^fARL«S\?OÎDICK
by AL CAPP
THIS IS A 
(HAf'-HA. ONE - WAV 
ROCKET 
T' TH' MOON,
, FOSDlCK.r
V I (FORTUNATELY, li 
", |L THE FOOL &/£> 
MDTNOTJCE M'y 
SECRET NOSE- 
EARTH-
* EG^DÎ'-THIS WIND IS 
MOSSING MV HAIR/'/-! 
WILL NOT BE A CREDIT TO THE FORCE,WHEN 
^ \ RETURN.y,
Secret Nose* Earth
WOrkincj
,M KEEPS HAIR NEAT I BUT, THAT 
BUT NOT- 1 WOULD BE
GREASV.y-REMOVES ILLEGAL V, (sH0DOCR.'f) LOOSE «V -MV 
DANDRUFF.*?"- If NAME IS 
G£T WlLDROOT 
CREAM-OfL,
CHARLIE'/
CHARLENE ff/mw
~ ONLV CEEAM-CHL GROOMS AND 
CONDITIONS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY
Want a Wonderful Trip to New York?
Good Seats for Six Top Broadivay Shows! A Comfortable Room in a Convenient Hotel!
Deluxe Bus Service Direct from C. /. T. to Your N. Y. Hotel .
ALL THIS FOR $6250 COMPLETE- -Shows, Hotel, Transportation
0« Tuesday evening, January 24th (after the last exam), you can be one of a busload of lucky students to board a deluxe Greyhound in front of Administration 
Hall, leaving for four wonderful days in New York City. Arriving early Wednesday morning, you will check in the charming Times Square Hotel, in the heart of 
Broadway. Then, for the next four days, you will see five of the great stage sensations, selected from the following list:
• DAMN YANKEES (the musical comedy hit about baseball, starring Gwen Verdon)
• PIPE DREAM (Rodgers and Hammerstein’s new musical, starring Helen Traubel)
• NO TIME FOR SERGEANTS (the riotous new comedy success with Andy Griffith)
• CAT ON A HOT TIN ROOF (Barbara Bel Geddes and Burl Ives in the prize-drama)
• DIARY OF ANNE FRANK (the dramatic smash of the year with Susan Strasberg)
• THE LARK (Julie Harris and Boris Karloff in Lillian Heilman’s hit)
• HATFUL OF RAIN (Shelley Winters in the shocking new drama)
• THE VAMP (Carol Shanning in a musical extravaganza spoofing the 20’s)
All from front and center mezzanine seats
FIVE OF THESE GREAT STAGE SHOWS-PLUS-THe motion picture sensation of the year
• OKLAHOMA—(In To.l.l A-O)-From a reserved orchestra seat
On Saturday evening, January 28th, you will leave New York in time to arrive back at C.I.T. before noon on Sunday. (Registration for second semester starts on Monday.) While in New York, you’re on your own for a gay round of sightseeing, shopping, and funmaking. Free tickets for famous radio and T.V. shows, optional
sightseeing tours, and guided U.N. visits are available, should you want them. Your time, however, is your own!
Six Wonderful Shows... Your Hotel Room... Round Trip Transportation
All This Complete For Only $62.50 (meals are your only expense)
Make Your Reservations Now—LAST DAY for Reservation is Dec. 3! See Douglas Cramer, Dept, of English, A332E, 
Administration Hall; call HA 1-9621; or write the SHOW TOUR, Box 398, C.I.T. This Tour is Offered Only for 
Students of C.I.T. and M.M.C.C. Make Your Reservation Today . . . Don't Be Left Behind.________________________
