The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 4, October 1,1985.
Appeal gets $35,000 for Hunt
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
A direct appeal by Student Senators to 
President Richard M. Cyert has resulted in 
a special allocation of $35,000 to improve 
Hunt Library’s study facilities and am­
bience, and an aggressive campaign to deter­
mine how students want the funds used.
In response to student complaints about 
the recent closing of four second floor study 
rooms, Senator Peter Cohen and Seana 
Chun brought their concern to Hunt 
Library Director Sylvema Ford, University 
Libraries Director Tom Michalak, and final­
ly to Cyert.
Second floor group study rooms were con­
verted into Automation and planning of­
fices during the summer. These offices, 
originally located on Hunt’s third floor, were 
moved to create space for the addition of the 
Educational Software Library. No new study 
facilities were added, however.
Ford explained the reasons for the addi­
tion of the collaborative effort between 
CMU’s Educational Computing Desiem 
Center and the Computation Center.
“This facility will make programs accessi­
ble for students and faculty in conjunction 
with courses they are taking,” she said. “From 
a public services standpoint it is better 
located in the library; we are centrally 
located and people are looking for informa­
tion resources here. The Automation and 
Planning unit was not moved out (of the 
library) because they are intimately involv­
ed in maintaining our computer system and 
need so much staff contact.”
Ford added,“It was never our intention to 
remove the study facilities. We were looking 
for viable alternatives. Resources were 
necessary.”
Michalak also described the situation at 
a Senate meeting Sept. 24: “The space here 
is so tight. We are about at the limit with 
what we can do with space.. .We made it very 
clear all along that we had to replace the
Student Study Rooms in some way. Everyone 
agreed that we had to do that. It simply 
wasn’t done. We did not have the resources.”
Michalak asked the Capitol Allocations 
Board in June for $41,000 to improve Hunt’s 
study facilities. The request was denied. At 
press time Cyert was out of town and 
unavailable for comment.
Chun and Cohen met with Cyert early last 
week after clarifying the situation with Ford 
and Michalak: “Seana and I were upset! We 
talked. Cyert was very open to student needs. 
It was very obvious that we need study 
rooms. He gave us $25,000 out of discre­
tionary funds to build new offices or use for 
students, based on student input. (Michalak 
and Ford) want student input and are will­
ing to add $10,000 from student fines (from 
fiscal 1985-6),” Cohen said. “Their proposal 
was very good. The new improvements will 
be completed by the end of this semester. 
This time frame may bother some students. 
But, although we have to wait, the changes
will be of better quality.” Currently, group 
study tables are located in Hunt’s basement 
foyer.
Chun, Cohen, Michalak and Ford 
developed a survey to determine how 
students would like the $35,000 used. Forms 
are available at Hunt and E&S Libraries. 
Their suggestions include:
-Replace lost study rooms with group 
study areas on the GSÏA side of the second 
floor with four acoustically divided areas 
providing 22 seats, carpet, blackboards and 
comfortable chairs. A design for this space 
is posted on the Question/Comment board 
on Hunt’s first floor.
-various carpet and furniture changes 
-comments about library collections and 
services
Michalak describes the student responses 
so far as “very curious. We are getting many 
different reactions. We have already started 
working on some of it. We pull different 
continued on page 4
WRCT gets major 
studio renovation
lii
These birds on a 
station underwent
WRCT wall were barely spared the Sonex when the campus radio 
a renovation.
By KATHERINE KIM
Tartan Staffwriter
A much larger studio, a much smaller of­
fice for executive staff and sleek black Sonex 
on the walls all mark a long awaited renova­
tion for WRCT, CMU’s student run radio 
station.
The station’s main studio, Studio A, was 
closed off to outsiders for several weeks this 
summer while staff members removed walls, 
painted remaining walls and redid the 
studio’s ceiling.
Prior to the enlargement of Studio A, 
“there wasn’t even any room to walk around,” 
said staff representative Bill Wrbican. With 
the additional space, however, live musical 
performances may become a more feasible
idea.
The addition of Sonex to the walls w.ll 
further aid performances and interviews by 
absorbing echoes and feedback. The Sonex 
cost the station 40 dollars a square yard.
The comfort of staff members and visitors 
was also taken into consideration in the 
renovation. New carpeting and a soft drink 
machine have already been installed. New 
“industrial strength” furniture is 
forthcoming.
Some of the WRCT staff feel that Studio 
A might be too big, and that some of the 
funds allocated for the project could have 
been directed toward expansion of the sta­
tion’s album collection. Generally, however, 
the staff is satisfied with WRCT’s new look.
Neudecker to head ECTI
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Thomas E. Neudecker, who has been ap­
pointed assistant vice president for academic 
affairs at CMU, has become the director of 
the University’s newly formed External Com­
puter Training Institute (ECTI).
As the new assistant vice president for 
academic affairs, Neudecker will be aiding 
senior vice president of academic affairs, 
John P. Crecine in his responsibilities for the 
academic welfare of the campus community.
Neudecker’s other position as director of 
the newly formed ECTI entails the integra­
tion of all CMU computer training and 
course activities aimed at non-campus au­
diences and not involving the granting of 
academic credit.
Many organizations, companies and in­
dividuals have approached CMU for instruc­
tion in the ever expanding high tech field 
of computers. CMU is frequently approach­
ed by large corporations who want to 
educate their professionals in the use of per­
sonal computers, teachers all over the nation 
studying for the AP Computer exam, jour­
nalists, military personnel, students outside
the campus, and a virtual multitude of
others.
Crecine stated,“We have a community fill­
ed with bright people who are extremely 
technically proficient with computers and 
finally we are trying to coordinate the 
resources with the requests.”
Neudecker will be implementing the EC­
TI program (fashioned after a similar all 
student run program at Stanford) and have 
it fully operational in several months. He will 
be acting as a bioker between persons on 
campus and the “outside world” requests. 
“The requests have grown in such volume 
that we can’t handle them without some sort 
of system,” Neudecker commented.
The program will train people in the use 
of personal computers (IBM PC’s Macin­
tosh’s, etc.) and related software. It is similar 
to the Computing Skills Workshop Core pro­
gram established this year on campus.
Neudecker noted that no vital computing 
resources will be drawn from the Universi­
ty, as much of the training will be ac­
complished on corporate owned systems and 
off campus computers.
The ECTI program will also sponsor
many non-profit activities such as working 
with public schools, underprivileged 
students, human services and the like.
The resources on campus are by no means 
scarce: “Talents arise vividly on campus. We 
have no trouble finding someone to couple a 
request to,” Neudecker stated.
ECTI will be involved in the integration 
of new software and hardware educational 
applications from varied sources such as the 
University Computation Center (UCC), Soft­
ware Engineering Institute (SEI), and the 
Information Tech Center (ITC). “There is 
a marketplace out there for this software. We 
want people to want to learn ‘the CMU way’,” 
Neudecker commented.
Neudecker has served as director of con­
tinuing education in Pitt’s School of Social 
Work since 1980. As a member of the 
editorial boards of a number of computer- 
oriented publications including the Com­
puter Uses in Social Services journal, In- 
foWorld, he has written frequently for Com- 
puterWorld, Popular Computing, and many 
other publications. He is also a computer 
software and hardware evaluator for Harper 
and Row and Brooks/Cole publishers.
In This Issue:
News
Shuttle...........................
Tuck-in a friend..................page 4
Features
Global Population..........
Ice Cream Wars............
.....page 7
.....page 7
Entertainment
Harlan Ellison......................naae 9
The Spectator...................page 13
Sports
Soccer team wins 6-0 
Football wins battle
... page 20 
...page 19
Editorial.........................
Acme.............................

---------------------------------------------------

;
*í!
A peealgts2 7:30pm. BH-AdamscnWLng*Automation: Tomorrow’s Technology Today- The IBM Lexington, Kentucky Story.
*1HUR0CT.3 limn to 4pm SkiboBöllrocmA conference where students from all academic disciplines are invited to come and talk freely and informally with company representatives.
Air Products • ALCOA • Allegheny Power System •
American Management Systems-AT&T Companies- 
Bell Communications • Boeing ¦ Chrysler • Corning • 
Digital • E. I. Dupont - F MC- General Dynamics- 
General Electric • GTE ¦ Hewlett-Packard Company •
HHB Softron -IBM- Jet Propulsion ¦ Kodak • LOF Glass • 
Lawrence-Livermore ¦ Lear S iegler ¦ Microsoft- 
McDonnell Douglas • National Steel ¦ Night Vision- 
Olin • Perkin-Elmer • Procter &Gamble • Goodyear- 
Singer-Kearfott • System Development Corp.¦
Standard Oil Company • Texas Instruments- 
United States Navy - U.S. Steel-Xerox...................
Sponsored by the CMU Student Branches of SWE and IEEE.

---------------------------------------------------

October 1,1985—The Tartan—Page 3
CALL TOLL FREE 800-621-1269 
EXCEPT ILLINOIS, ALASKA
ELEK-TEK.inc
While in Helsinki, Shiah did not face a 
very big culture shock because Finland is a 
very modem country. The Finnish people 
were very shy and hard to get to know at 
first, but once they became friends they 
became “true”friends.
Shiah was not the only CMU student in 
Finland. Karen Jewell, a senior in Industrial 
Management also worked in Helsinki. She 
worked for Amer-Group, Ltd, a cigarette
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of many 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates.
This year, nearly half of our 1,500 technical 
hires will be in Electrical/Electronic Engineering 
and Computer Science — goal-oriented, high- 
performance students who will graduate in the 
top half of their classes.
If you are one of these top performers, explore 
the wide range of opportunities available in the 
following technologies: Aeronautics, Advanced 
Signal Processing, Radar Systems, Embedded
Software, Lasers and Electro-optics, Composite 
Structures, VLSI, Non-linear Structural Analysis, 
Robotics and CAD/CAM.
At General Dynamics, you will work with our 
innovative professionals in applying these 
technologies toward a wide variety of aerospace, 
computer systems, electronics, shipbuilding and 
military land vehicle programs. Plus, you can stay 
current in your field and make the most of your 
career through our corporate-wide training and 
lifelong education programs.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in your 
career. See your Placement Office for a campus 
interview with General Dynamics.
General dynamics
ÎÀfÜ fCfùa/ Opportunity Employer: U 5 Citizenship Required
workA!ES EC membersin Europe
This summer, six members from Interna­
tional Association of Students in Economics 
and Business Management (AIESEC) at 
CMU travelled to Europe to work in jobs ar­
ranged by AIESEC.
AIESEC is an international student run 
organization with a local committee located 
here at CMU. The members of AIESEC- 
CMU raise jobs in downtown Pittsburgh for 
students from abroad to work, and for as 
many jobs raised in Pittsburgh, that many 
local students are given the chance to work 
in a foreign country. The countries where 
these local students worked included 
Switzerland, Sweden, Finland, Norway and 
Yugoslavia.
Andrea Shiah, a senior in Industrial 
Management, travelled to Helsinki, Finland 
to work for the summer. She worked for ITT, 
an international communications con­
glomerate. Her job was in the Finance 
Department, and her work involved sending 
intercompany financial reports.
While in Helsinki, Shiah was given a 
chance to travel to Stockholm, Sweden and 
also Leningrad, Russia. She felt that “Russia 
was a fascinationg place to see. The city and 
the palaces of the Czars were very beautiful, 
however, the standard of living of the peo­
ple was very low. Most of the Russians 
wouldn’t speak with foreigners, perhaps 
because it was forbidden. There was a lot 
of propoganda in Russia and it was hard to 
get used to.”
manufacturing and marketing company.
There were about 80 students from all 
over the world working in Helsinki through 
the AIESEC program. Therefore, Jewell got 
the chance to meet people from different 
countries such as India, Singapore, Turkey, 
Iceland, Africa and all over Europe. She was 
given the chance to learn about the lifestyles 
in different countries.
Before leaving for Europe, Jewell was told 
by many people that there was a big dif­
ference between the American culture and 
the European culture, but Jewell felt that
“there was actually, many little differences 
between the people and if you looked at the 
differences as small, then it wasn’t so over­
whelming.”
A third CMU student was also matched 
to a job in Finland through the AIESEC pro­
gram. Heather Pillar, who graduated last 
year as a Graphic Communications Manage­
ment major, is still currently in Finland and 
will be working there until the end of 
October.
Pillar is working for A.Ahlstroem Cor­
poration in Karhula, Finland and she is do­
ing research on advertising done by com­
petitors of her company and preparing 
statistics about advertising costs.
Other AIESEC members who travelled 
abroad to work were: Todd Rudley who 
worked in Oslo, Norway, Anthony Sargent 
who worked in Malmoe, Sweden, Joe Shimko 
who worked in Yugoslavia, and Sue Griffen 
who worked in Geneve, Switzerland. These 
students welcome all questions from the 
CMU community about their travels.
Time to... 
Care More, 
Share MoreUnibedway
PREGNANT?
And you didn’t meon to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.Putonsi *ss
THE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS 
FACTORY OUTLET
ELEK-TEK . . . 
SAVES YOU MORE 
ON CALCULATORS
EL 551070PC 135QA135EL 5500T70PC 1500A150EL 552085CE 1251 19PC 1250A70CE 126P55PC 126075CE 150150PC 1261135
CaSSSS CALCULATORS
HP-11C Scientific...........58HP-12C Financial...........90HP-15C Sfcientific...........90HP-16C Programmer .... 90
FREE!
Tartna New Advantage 
jRtsoftware module
HP with the purchase of 
any HP-41 atElektek.
Offer ends 11/15/85.
Acceeaonee discounted loo MasterCard or VISA by phone or mail Man CaatWi chock. Money Or d. Per*. Check (2 oka to ctr) Sorry noC O D '* Add K 00 t st item S’ ee edtfi ehpg t hand! Shpta to IL address add 7% tea Prices sob, to change Uraversity/Cotiege POs Welcome WRITE (no catlal tor tree catalog 30-day return pokey lor defective merchendise only ALL ELEK-TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW, 1ST QUALITY ANO COMPLETE
HEWLETT 
PACKAPO‘While limited supplies last.
HP-41C .........................HP-41 CV.......................HP-41CX.......................HP-71 B ComputerOptical Wand ...............Card Peader.................Printer (82143A)..........HP-IL Module...............Dig. Cassette Drive ...HP-IL Printer...............Think Jet Printer..........9114A Disk Drive ........
105*168245399 . 95 145 28395400 335 375 600
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATES:October 16 & 17

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—October 1,1985
Shuttle service changes route, adds vehicles
By JENNIFER EVEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU shuttle bus route was changed 
this semester to better accommodate off- 
campus students and to include SEI and 
Mellon Institute stops.
The new route leaves Skibo and proceeds 
west on Forbes Ave., stopping at the 
Morewood parking area to pick up SEI and 
Mellon Institute personnel. The shuttle con­
tinues down Forbes Ave. to Dithridge Street, 
stopping at the Mellon Institute and Shirley 
Apartments. Via Dithridge, it travels Bayard 
Ave. and N. Craig St. to Centre Ave., where 
it stops at Hampshire Hall and Tudor/Carol 
Apartments. Continuing down Centre Ave., 
it stops at the temporary SEI offices, turns 
on Aiken Ave., and proceeds to the 
Marybelle Apartments on Clyde St. before 
returning to Skibo.
During peak travel hours, students can get
Cyert grants Hunt $35,000
continued from page 1 ,
things out of different places: Art comes 
from donors, the President, the Art Depart­
ment. The University is providing more 
resources. For example, we are spending 
almost $1 million on our collections this year. 
In ‘79/80 we had $400,000. Students come 
and go, which doesn’t allow them to see 
gradual building and growth.
“We need students to tell us where the pro­
blems are. We have consistently responded, 
and will continue to do so. I commend Paul 
and Seana for going to see the President. It 
made it clear that student facilities are a 
priority,” he concluded.
“This is a big step for Student Senate,” 
Cohen said. “We got Cyert to give all that 
money to the library. We got the library to 
make improvements. On top of it, this deal 
directly benefits the students! These facilities 
will be great!”
“We want students to be aware of Student 
Senate’s impact on the campus community,” 
Chun emphasized. “We respond effectively 
to complaints. But we need to know what the 
problems are! We are here to help people, 
and we can’t do it if we don’t have problems 
to solve. Stop by the Student Senate Office 
and tell us. With unity we can do it!”
The world is waiting.Be an exchange student
Step into an adventure filled with opportunities and challenges. As 
part of International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, 
you live abroad with your new host family. Learn new skills. Go to new 
schools. Make new friends.
\bung people from all segments of American society are 
being selected. If you’d like to be one of them, write for more 
information on programs, costs and financial aid.
Help bring the world together, one friendship at a time.
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGEPueblo, Colorado 81009
The CMU Philosophy Club
presents
A Philosophic Attack
onScientific Creationism
When: Wednesday, Oct. 2 @ 7:00 
Where: BH 131 
Who: Anyone!
Refreshments will be served, and 
small children are cute.
service every twenty minutes.
An increase in the number of shuttle bus 
goers has resulted in the addition of a second 
van to thé route between 6:40 a.m. and 10 
a.m. Between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m., another 
high demand period, two shuttles will be 
run. One will cover the Mellon Institute, 
Shirley Apartments, the Morewood parking 
area and Skibo. The other will run between 
Marybelle, Hampshire, Tudor/Carol, SEI
and Skibo.
Sgt. Ricci of Campus Security says that 
the new route has worked “fairly well. The 
supportive vans have been very successful.”
He said he hopes to see “alterations in the 
night schedule to better suit the university.”
Full shuttle schedules and route and time 
details may be obtained in Skibo at the In­
formation Desk or at Campus Security in 
Baker Hall.
Announcing...
The Great Tuck-In
It’s been a bad night. The people down 
the hall sound like they’re inventing World 
War III with their stereo. Your roommates 
seem unable to touch their books while yours 
seem glued to your fingers. And to top it off, 
you need some TLC fast. Suddenly, there's 
a knock at your door! You answer it, and in
tuck-in, you may personalize it with various 
extras, ranging from a lullaby, nursery 
rhyme, or fairy tale for only $.25, a
shirts announcing gleefully 
bedtime: “We’re here to 
Bewildered, you climb into 
glass of milk and a handful
it’s your 
you in!” 
bed as a 
are
$.75, or a cute 
animal for just $2.50. All proceeds will go 
to charity.
So where does one purchase these Tuck- 
Ins? On October 1, 2, and 3, there will be 
tables set up in three locations: in front of
*
fades into oblivion, you happily wonder: 
“What is going on here?”
Alpha Phi Omega, the national service 
fraternity, announces the fifth Great Tuck- 
In. It’s a great way to make someone else (or 
even yourself) feel better, and the cost is on­
ly $1.00. After the minimum purchase of a
Hall) from 10 am to 3 pm, in Skibo Gray 
Matter from 11 am to 2 pm, and in 
Morewood Gardens lobby from 4:30 pm to 
7
on
give the tuck-ins on October 7 and 8, bet­
ween 11 pm and 1 am. So give yourself or 
someone else a break and purchase a Tuck- 
In. Maybe that night won’t turn out so bad­
ly after all.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
• student discount available
• easilv accessible bv bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-4770
SUtsterCard. Visa accepted 
( :all <i[)fHjiiMment
MORE Stats, Power! IMPROVED File Handling, Reporting!
The Enhanced 
and Expanded 
Statistical Package for 
IBM PC/XT/ATs
SPSS/PC+. combined with SPSS/PC + Advanced Statistics' and SPSS/PC +¦ Tables,' form THE most comprehensive statistical software available for a microcomputer 
For nearly 20 years, the name "SPSS" has meant high quality mainframe software All three microproducts main­tain feature and language compatibility with the mainframe versions And SPSS/PO comes with everything 
you should expect from a market leader-a thorough, well-designed package with excellent documentation and customer support
ELEE5L1 07777777777777777777
¦ Display manager & editor¦ File matching & merging • File transfer with popularPC programs¦ Selective installation & removal of procedures¦ Crosstabulation¦ Descriptive statistics¦ Multiple regression m ANOVA¦ Plots & graphs¦ Flexible data transformation¦ Customized reports
SPSS/PC + ADVANCED STATISTICS
B MANOVA¦ Factor analysis¦ Cluster analysisB Discriminant analysis M Loglinear modelling
SPSS/PC + TABLES
B Stub & banner tables B Multiple response data B Presentation quality tables and reports B Full range of percentagmg and statistics options
n TNs symtw <nc*cMm the excrt-ng r**, capaWmes
For more information, contact our Marketing Department at 
SPSS inc.444 N Michigan Avenue 
Chicago. IL 60611 312/329-3500
IN EUFIOPE SPSS Europe BV PO Box 115 4200 AC Gonnchem The Netherlands,Phone * 31183036711 
TWX 21019
VISA, MasterCard and American 
Express accepted
SPSS inc.PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWER
S«#**

---------------------------------------------------

Join us at the
Fall Student Phonathon and
WIN 
A
TRIP!!!
The phonathons will give you the 
opportunity to:
1. Call alumni within your major and 
discuss future careers.
2. The Fraternities and Sororities 
will be able to call your alumni to 
encourage them to come back 
for Homecoming.
3. Help the University raise money 
to improve the campus and help 
the financial aid money.
4. HAVE FUN!
Individual who raises the most money wins:
2 roundtrip tickets on USAir to Fort Lauderdale plus $200 spending money.Compliments of USAir and World Wise Travel.
Individual who gets the most 
number of alumni to increase their gift wins:
2 roundtrip tickets on Eastern Airlines for any domestic 
destination.Compliments of Eastern Airlines and Forbes Travel.
"Holiday restrictions exist on both trips.
Prizes for groups:
$100 for the group who raises the most money 
$100 for the group with the highest average gift
Two groups within each of the following categories will 
receive a prize:
1. Greeks
2. Dorms
3. Other Organizations
Each night phoners will receive pizza, a free long distance 
call and the top four individuals who raise the most 
money will receive a CMU sweatshirt.
Phonathons start September 23 and run through October 
31.
Schedule
6:00 p.m. Meet at Phonathon Room 3rd Floor, 5017
Forbes (house on Forbes in the middle of the 
fraternities)
6 30 Briefing Session 
6:45-9:00 Phoning
Reserve your space now, as a group or an individual. Con­
tact the CMU Fund Office, x202l, 5017 Forbes Avenue.
free walk-in tutoring program 
each week
•pontorad by Studant Affato* end 
It»* CounMlng and Sludcnl D*v*lopm*frt CwrtM 
In Morvwood Garden*, I Tow*», x2922
Sunday thru thursday 7pm-10pm
Calculus PH - 126A
Pre I. II, III
Physics PH - 126B
Chemistry PH - 225B
English as a BH - 135B
second language
Economics PH - 226B
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH - 226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 235B
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED'
Great Styles Start at... Th
' APPOINTMENT{¡fi
SSiPSCTIITiOnSI
NECESSARY
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
COLORPERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7687-3500 
No Appointments
Music
SALE...CASSETTES and RECORDS.
MAJOR LABELS 
TOP ARTISTS
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something for Everyone
Pop, Rock, Folk, Jazz and Classics
On Sale for Limited Time 
Shop Early for Best Selection
Oct 1 thru Oct 11
emu bccltstcre
IN BAKER HALL
UNISEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

Before you make 
a long distance commitment, 
make sure you know 
what you’re getting into.
Im AT&Ts=s^ The right choice.
If Fletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had 
known what being stuck in the same boat 
would mean, chances are neither would have 
set foot aboard.
And if you’re stuck in the same boat with a long 
distance company that doesn’t give you all the 
services you need, it’s easy to harbor mutinous 
thoughts.
But when you pick AT&T as your long distance 
company, you know you’re in for smooth sailing.
You’ll get trouble-free, reliable service. Immediate 
connections—even during the busiest hours. 
Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day 
Rate on state-to-state calls. And operators to 
assist you with immediate credit for wrong 
numbers and collect calling.
So when you’re asked to choose a long distance 
company, sign aboard with AT&T. With AT&T Long 
Distance Service, you’ll never be left stranded. 
Reach out and touch someone*
ommumcations

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Global Population concerns CMU students
By MOHAN EMBAR
Tartan Managing Editor
Global Population: Myths, realities, and 
policies, a campus-wide course held last Fri­
day and Saturday, brought together a 
number of international experts in this field. 
Full-time undergraduate and graduate 
t students were eligible to receive two units of 
academic credit from the course, but essen­
tially anyone in the CMU community could 
have attended. Pre-registration was required 
and a list of preparatory readings was 
available from the bookstore for twenty 
dollars; part of the reading’s cost was under­
written by the university. It is the second 
campus-wide course CMU has given, the 
first being Nuclear Winter which was held 
in Spring ’84.
The course was organized by the seven- 
¥ person committee of Professors A1 Blums - 
tein, Lester Lave, Katherine Lynch, William 
McClure, John Modell, Granger Morgan, 
and Shelby Stewman. It consisted of a series 
of talks followed by a short question -and - 
answer sessions. Two panel discussions were 
also presented. Course participants were also 
given a chance to eat with the faculty and 
speakers in the Faculty Dining Room. This 
time gave everyone a chance to exchange 
ideas in an informal setting and digest, 
along with the food, some of the issues and 
v* arguments that had been brought up earlier. 
According to Professor Katherine Lynch, 
the goal of Global Population was “tb give 
CMU students the opportunity to learn more 
about a current problem from a number of 
experts in the field.” The experts included 
Samuel Preston, Peter Steams, Kingsley 
Davis, Judith Modell, Jacob Siegel, Michael 
Teitelbaum, Murray Feshbach, John Field, 
-md Nancy Birdsall. Discussion topics rang-
Hausman, Preston, Cyert, and Modell explore demography’s role in dictating policy.
ed from “Culture, Choice, and Childbear­
ing,” presented by Judith Modell, to “Im­
migration and Refugee Policy in the United 
States,” presented by Michael Teitelbaum of 
the Sloan Foundation.
The course started at 1:30 pm on Friday. 
Professor Granger Morgan gave the in­
troduction and also announced that the 
whereabouts of Samuel Preston, University 
of Pennsylvania, and Joseph Washington, 
Oxfam, were unknown due to the hurricane 
on the East Coast. Shelby Stewman, who was
given two hours notice, filled in for Samuel 
Preston and gave an- impressive speech on 
the fundamental ideas of demography. Peter 
Stearns, also from CMU, spoke afterward 
about the history of demography in the West 
and the West’s gradual realization of the im­
portance of demography in policy-making. 
After some questions were answered, 
Kingsley Davis of the Hoover Institution 
spoke about the factors involved in popula­
tion growth. He claimed that the assertion 
that industrial countries are not growing is
puuiu uy /\iiuy
a myth and argued that society’s ideology 
that population growth is desirable still per­
sists. Judith Modell then followed with an 
analysis of childbearing choices within dif­
ferent cultures.
After Modell’s talk, a quiz over the re­
quired readings was given to students tak­
ing the course for credit. Dinner was then 
served in the Faculty Dining Room from 
5:45 pm to 7 pm.
The first of two sets of small group case 
continued on page 9Ice cream wars: who's Oakland's best
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Staffwriter
When mid-term cramming starts to rob 
us of spirit, few consolations are as revitaliz­
ing and inexpensive in time and money as 
good ice cream. But ice cream worthy of the 
noble task of satisfying student hedonism is 
rare. In the Oakland area only four such 
parlours exist.
Pace’s Ice Creamery, on the corner of S. 
Craig St. and Forbes Ave., is one such place. 
It is styled as a french cafe with tables on 
the sidewalk, checkers and dominoes for 
those who care to linger and relax to music. 
Such an atmosphere usually attracts a more 
effete crow, causing some to feel a little out 
of place
But the ice cream is good enough to war­
rant a trip; the ice cream is made on the 
premises and is the second best in the area. 
In general, the ice cream is far creamier 
than most, lacking the watered down con­
sistency that corn syrup can give ice cream.
However, most flavors with two com­
ponents have too much of the common item. 
For instance, the chocalate peanut butter 
has too much chocolate, while it is short on 
peanut butter. The exceptions to this rule 
are stickybun pecan and Laurel’s brownie 
vanilla. The former contains plenty of 
pecans and the base flavor is remarkably 
similar to a real sticky bun', while the latter 
is full of big chunks of chewy brownie.
For those allergic to dairy products, 
weight conscious, vegetarian or orthodox 
Jewish, Pace’s also serves tofutti; the product 
is free of dairy foods, only 128 calories per 
serving and kosher. But it is not a good 
substitute for ice cream, having a thin con­
sistency and an artificial taste.
For a more enjoyable atmosphere, G. D. 
Ritzys on Baum Blvd. is the place, walk 
ing in the place, one wonders if his grand
father took his grandmother to a similar 
place. There is music from the 1940’s, an 
old-fashioned newspaper hanging on the 
wall, and employees who are anxious to give 
friendly service. Such an atmosphere is 
relaxing and confidence-building, (those 
who saw Back to the Future know wnat I 
mean.)
Unfortunately, the ice crtam is not as 
agreeable. It seems to contain extra sugar 
that not only makes it too sweet but robs the 
ice cream of its smoothness, giving it a grit­
ty texture. For those willing to overlook these 
deficiencies, several flavors are worth tasting. 
British buttered toffee has big chunks of can­
dy in a very sweet and rich base, and the 
peanut butter cup is absolutely dense with 
chocolate-covered peanuts.
The latest entry in the cream of ice creams 
war is Goodies on Oakland Ave. Goodies is 
worthwhile although most of the more com­
mon flavors are no better than ony other ice 
cream. But the flavors fashioned after li­
quors are excellent. The menu lists seven li­
quor ice creams, but the night I was there 
only Kahlua, Bailey’s Irish Cream and 151 
rum raisin were available. The rum raisin 
the best I’ve tasted, very smooth with a 
strong rum flavor. The gentleman behind 
the counter that evening swears the he 
“caught a buzz” eating it one evening. The 
other two were also very authentic tasting. 
The scoops are rather small, however.
The best of the best ice creams in the area 
is available at Dave and Andy’s on Atwood 
St. The business and, more importantly, the 
ice cream is an American success story. 
While Dave Tuttle and Andy Hardie were 
in college, they used to joke about opening 
up a little ice creamery. Dave remembered 
his childhood when his grandfather used to 
make ice cream the old-fashioned way in 
a bucket with a crank, using ice and rock
salt to freeze it. Andy happened to have an 
old machine of the same description stored 
away. If they could use Andy’s machine to 
make Dave’s grandfather’s ice cream ...
The result is now on Atwood St. where the 
best cookies and cream ice cream in 
Oakland is produced. Many places use big 
pieces of cookies in their version; many use 
lots of fresh cream (14% butterfat in all Dave 
and Andy flavors);many chum their ice 
cream until it is so smooth one can’t detect 
any sugar granules; but only Dave and An­
dy do all of the above.
Other attractions include homemade 
cones made before your eyes, and a strictly 
enforced no smoking policy that keeps the 
ice cream untainted. Incidentally, the ice 
cream is also made in plain view, in an old 
White Mountain freezer.
The only complaints I have are that there 
is no seating and the flavor list is limited (11 
when I was last there). But I guess those two 
problems come with such a small business .. 
and such good ice cream.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—October 1,1985
College life may be hazardous to your health
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
How much did you sleep last night? 
Chances are—not enough — especially if you 
found yourself awake as the garbage men 
came around. If you have circles under your 
eyes and your skin appears sallow, you’re not 
alone. Thousands of college students are 
forced to jeapordize their health in order to 
meet the demands placed on them by 
school work. If you’re among those who don’t 
get enough sleep, you may be on the road 
toward illness. Indeed lack of sleep breaks 
down the body’s immunity system, 
diminishing its ability to ward off infection. 
Therefore, those students who habitually 
pull all-nighters are particularly suscepti­
ble to sickness.
College students are notorious for their 
poor health habits. They generally don’t 
sleep, eat, or exercise properly. Moreover, 
they are constantly under pressure, leading 
to stress, anxiety, and in severe cases
depression.
It is no surprise that college students don’t 
eat balanced meals regularly. Who has the 
time? Although it is easier and less time con­
suming for students to eat on campus, there 
are a limited number of dining facilities that 
offer complete meals at all hours. Even 
though the Kiltie and Morewood prepare 
dishes that are technically nutritious, the en­
trees are almost always loaded with fat- 
producing starches. In terms of nutritional 
quality, the Tartan Grill equals a zero, with 
its menu centered around greasy fried foods. 
The same applies to More Pizza, whose 
selection of sandwich and pizzas items is high 
in carbohydrates. That leaves Salad’s Plus, 
offering a variety of nutritious foods such as 
soups, salads, and yogurts; too bad it’s clos­
ed entirely on the weekends.
If students had the time or money, they 
could eat out in Oakland, Shadyside or 
Squirell Hill. However, most students must 
resort to fast foods, the most popular being
pizza. Although there’s nothing wrong with 
pizza, one cannot rely on it soley for sub­
sistence and remain healthy. On the whole, 
the selection offered to students at college 
is a far cry from Mom’ home cooking.
While the rest of America is in the midst 
of a fitness craze, college students rarely have 
the time or money to devote to extensive 
physical routines. And for those who have 
the time to work out, there is a problem with 
CMU’s athletic facilities. For starters, the 
Gym is not always open, as it shuts down at 
5:00 pm on weekends. Moreover, the 
facilities are ancient. Of course, there is the 
option of joining a health club with exer­
cise equipment, such as the Caber Club on 
campus; however these spas are often very 
costly. One can always opt for a jog in 
Schenley Park, but there is the chance of be­
ing abducted in the woods. And, as the 
semester gets more involved, the weather gets 
colder, most students rationalize that the 
walk to and from classes is sufficient exer­
cise; strenuous activity takes too much effort. 
Eventually all we need to keep us going is 
the caffeine in our soda.
When you look in the mirror at the wash­
ed out version of the person you used to be, 
don’t feel bad. Thousand of students each 
day are robbed of that healthy glow they 
started off with. »
Psychologist Susan Oullett Kobasa finds 
that some people actually stay healthy under 
stressful conditions, as long as they’re com­
mitted (to self, work, family, school, or other 
values); in control (of their own lives); and 
challenged. She finds that certain in­
dividuals thrive under pressure. Therefore, 
students with the proper attitude can turn 
their situations in a positive direction.
While college students may never wind up 
looking quite as good as the rest of the Pep­
si generation, they can take solace in the fact 
that they probably wouldn’t want to anyway.Library expands resources, capabilities
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Staf/writer
Many students and faculty members are 
unaware of the expanding capabilities and 
resources which new computer systems pro­
vide for our University Library. Certainly 
they are worth finding out about because 
they make using the libraries easier and 
more fruitful.
The LS/2000 system is the basic compo­
nent of CMU’s library automation. Through 
an LS/2000 terminal, a user can conduct 
searches for specific works or more complete 
listings of a particular subject or author. If 
the item is in the library collection, the 
LS/2000 screen will display the call number, 
location and publishing information for the
work.
LS/2000 terminals are currently located 
at the Engineering and Science Library and 
Mellon Institute Library as well as on the 
first and fourth floors of Hunt Library. 
These terminals also have printing facilities, 
so that a user can print the needed 
information.
Rachael Naismith, the publications coor­
dinator for CMU Libraries would also like 
library users to be aware of a new function 
called the “Information Function” contain­
ed in the LS/2000 online system. This com­
mand can provide a user with information 
about library services and policies, a guide 
for the location of materials and even “an­
nouncements of new exhibits, changes in
hours, technological advances and CMU 
trivia.” This function provides information 
on how to use a computer, to locate 
magazine articles, whether or not the 
libraries have educational software and even 
how late the libraries will be open during 
finals week. The information function 
should be a useful source of answers for 
library patrons. Ms. Naismith welcomes any 
comments on the system which can be sent 
directly through the LS/2000 terminal us­
ing the “comments” function.
In addition, the University Libraries are 
offering introductory classes to teach basic 
searching skills. Upcoming sessions will take 
place at 2: SO PM on Wednesday, October 
2: Thursday, October 10; Wednesday. Oc­
tober 16; and Thursday October 24 in the 
seminar room on the second floor of Hunt 
Library. Anyone interested in attending one 
of these classes chould call the Hunt 
Reference Desk (x2442).
In addition, money has recently been ap­
propriated for a computer cluster on the 
third floor of Hunt. The cluster is intended 
for a considerably different purpose than 
other clusters on campus. The cluster will 
probably contain an Apple II, 2 IBM PC’s,
2 Macintosh’s and 2 Andrew workstations. 
The purpose of the cluster will be the use 
of educational software. Peggy Sciden, the 
librarian for educational software, an­
ticipates completion of the cluster by
p|ZZ A
10 CUT URGE PIZZA 
& 2 UTER PEPSI
$3.50
i ii I *
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

<
October 1,1985—The Tartan—Page 9
Vacations aren't just for Spring
By MITCHELL REICHGUT
Tartan Staffwriter
Now that school has been going on for 
about a month it’is time to start thinking 
about a vacation. Many students begin suf­
fering this time of year from what is com­
monly known as the CMU blues. It is not 
easy to leave behind fun and sun for com­
puters and review sessions. CMU doesn’t of­
fer what anyone would call a vast array of 
things to do on weekends. Many students 
wait until spring break to take any form of 
vacation and many of them automatically 
go directly down to Fort Lauderdale. There 
is certainly nothing wrong with Fort
Lauderdale, but why wait until Spring, and 
why look to only one vacation spot;' National 
Car Rental, which is right down the street 
on Forbes Ave., has great prices on rented 
cars which can instantly turn into a weekend 
ticket to Wahsinton D.C.(Mystical land of 
the famous 7 to 1 female-male ratio, and 
legal drinking age of 18). New York City is 
another possibility; Eastgate Travel has a 
Theatre Weekend package which includes 
tickets to your favorite Broadway show, din­
ner at Mama Leone’s, and Hotel for three 
nights. Once you rent a car it becomes very 
cheap to split the cost between friends. And 
remember that Penn State, IUP, and
Bucknell are all within driving distance!
When the longer breaks roll around there 
are many vacations you can choose from. 
People’s Travel Agency in Oakland, has a 
package to Cancún, Mexico (where they 
have watersports, parasailing, deep sea 
fishing, and ancient ruins). For seven nights 
with airfair and hotel for less than $400! 
Forbes Travel suggest that Toronto, Canada 
makes an excellent and affordable vacation. 
One of Toronto’s many attractions is the Old 
Fire Hall which is an improv club where 
many of Second City T.V.’s stars got started. 
If you’re the outdoorsy type, than Frontiers 
Travel may interest you. They specialize in
Break
hunting and fishing trips both in the USA 
and all over the world; these trips can be 
either elegant, rugged, or a combination of 
the two. Eastgate Travel has a package to 
Paradise Island in Nassau for $425. This in­
cludes hotel, airfair, taxes, gratuities, and 
many other costs for seven nights, (probably 
cheaper than Fort Lauderdale).
So if you’ve got the CMU blues; if frat par­
ties, computer terminals, and the Morewood 
Gardens game room are not your idea of 
a weekend in paradise — do something about 
it. There are a wide variety of inexpensive 
vacations and weekend trips that you can 
look into.
SKIBO 40A 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICEGo home without a hassle
Participants enthusiastic 
despite low student turnout
continued from page 7
studies was presented in Porter Hall after 
dinner. Case studies including “Birth Con­
trol in Preindustrial Europe,” “Population 
Issues in China,” “Population Policy in In­
donesia,” “Health, Mortality, and Population 
in the Soviet Union,” and “Population 
Resources and the Jump to Space” were 
presented in two sessions at 7 pm and 8:15 
pm. The day ended with refreshments in the 
Faculty Lounge.
Saturday morning’s talks focused on 
Population Issues in Developing Countries 
and Saturday afternoon’s were concerned 
with Population in the Developing World as 
a whole. Each of these two parts concluded 
with a panel discussion. Lunch and dinner 
were cleverly used to divide the two sessions
GRADUAT SCHOOL O BUSINESS
and to allow discussion of the day’s ideas.
Both Professor Morgan and President 
Cyert were disappointed at the number of 
people who showed up for Global Popula­
tion, which was much lower than expected. 
Originally, the Ballroom was to be used 
because the estimated turnout was expected 
to be in the order of three hundred. Only 
one hundred people showed up.
However, this fact did not seem to 
diminish the enthusiasm of all who took part 
in this course. Lynch, Cyert, and Morgan all 
concurred that the role of campus-wide 
courses at CMU is very beneficial.
“We would like to have two a year,” Cyert 
said. “They are extremely important as an 
educational vehicle in that they bring the 
faculty and students together.”
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
LPC 3QPA T28A22 CQ 9QA6 9HCW PK EK L2O12 1QALE
W2OSCW OA1WHC21CPA2 LW3EH1E / +OCW 1H.HS 2c8Hc22AHc8 1W2+HECA3 / oHQSQ83 1Q++PcHC3 T2.2SQL+2cC O8AH1PSCPA2 / mQA2ECA3 cPCAHCHQc / 2TP1OCHQc
Ebinedw teihvth hab 1vdbbd Ebdsntbw'9vdibd Wv¦¦ Aeel ,f' med Orr¦ntvhneiw vip Hihbdsnbu Orrenihlbihw
AbtdFnhbdw 9n¦¦ yb ei 1vdib"nb 1vlrFw Qtheybd f' ,fgq
+22CHc8' QL2c CQ OSS mn¦l' Hi­edlvhnei vip TnwtFwwnei 9nha AbhFdibp Lbvtb 1edrw .e¦Fihbbdw Q1CQo2A g' x he f L+ Ekn ye' Aeel ,,
Maureen J. Rolla, Assistant Director of Admissions, will be on you cam­
pus Monday, October 7, 1985 to speak with students from all disciplines 
who are interested in the M.B.A. and Ph.D. degree programs. Twelve con­
centrations are offered in the Business School plus joint degree programs 
with the Schools of Architectutre, Engineering, International Affairs, Jour­
nalism, Law, Public Heatlth, Social Work and Teacher’s College. For fur­
ther details please contact Career Services and Placement.
Kurt Vonnegut Lecture
Wednesday, October 23
Tickets go on sale at the Skibo Information Desk 
Wednesday, October 9, 9:00 a.m. 
To purchase tickets, you must
1) Present your own CMU ID (one ID per person)
2) Limit 2 tickets/person
Price: $3.oo/ticket
continued from page 8
January of 1986 and assures students that the 
room will be carpeted and acoustically 
panelled to absorb any noise from the ter­
minals, thereby preserving the quiet study 
area on the third floor.
CMU’s libraries are making an effort to
provide the university community with both 
new resources and better access to existing 
resources through the use of computers. 
While these systems are still in their begin­
ning stages, the Universtiy Libraries 
welcome comments and suggestions about 
these undertakings.
Shelby Stewman defines basic concepts of demography.
CMU Libraries improve
photo by Andy Gillespie

---------------------------------------------------

How these three business school graduates are doing at The Morgan Bank
Morgan is among the strongest and best 
capitalized of major international banks. 
But our greatest strength is our people. 
We search for the best, and quickly chal­
lenge their experience and talents. Con­
sider these three.
Suzette L.M. Wu was awarded her 
BA from Wellesley in 1981 with a double 
major in economics and Chinese studies. 
Then she spent a year in Asia on a Watson 
Fellowship. After she received her MBA in 
finance from The Wharton School in 
1984, Suzette joined Morgan, going 
directly into the Commercial Bank Man­
agement Program. Now on her first 
assignment, Suzette is in International 
Financial Management, where she deals 
with the capital needs of many leading 
international corporations.
Rondy E. Jennings got his BA in eco­
nomics from Swarthmore in 1980, then
spent nine months in Washington with 
the Environmental Protection Agency.
He got his MBA from Stanford in 1983, and 
then joined Morgan’s Commercial Bank 
Management Program. In 1984 Rondy 
moved into public finance, working on the 
underwriting of bond issues for various 
government units, hospitals, and univer­
sities. He’s an assistant treasurer.
David A. Nass Jr. earned a BS in 
chemistry from William and Mary, and 
an MS in industrial administration from 
Carnegie-Mellon in 1980. A summer in­
tern at Morgan in 1979, David joined the 
bank full time after getting his graduate 
degree. He followed the training program 
with assignments in our Mining and 
Construction and Utilities Departments, 
then assumed relationship responsibilities 
in a newly formed group financing tele­
communication companies. Now a vice
president, David is helping develop our 
Banking Division’s marketing strategy.
If you can communicate well with all 
levels of management, and have the know­
how and drive to make a contribution in 
the rapidly changing world of interna­
tional finance, find out about one of the 
world’s leaders. Find out about Morgan.
How you can talk to Morgan- 
on campus
Morgan will be giving a presentation/ 
reception on career opportunities and 
summer internships on Thursday, 
October 10.
For more infonnation, contact your 
placement office. Or get in touch with 
John W. Rae Jr., Assistant Vice President, 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, * 
23 Wall Street, New York, NY 10015. 
Telephone (212) 208-4606.
The Morgan Bank
(an Kqucd Opportunity Employer)
Shown, from left, are Morgan bankers Suzette Wu, Rondy Jennings, and David Nass.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Harlan Ellison with An Edge in My Voice
Harlan Ellison looks nostalgic with his antique manual word processor.
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Harlan Ellison is best known as a writer 
of intense and offbeat fantasy and science 
fiction. With such stories as “The 
Deathbird,” “A Boy and His Dog,” and “I 
Have No Mouth & I Must Scream,” Ellison 
has gathered ¿ loyal following. But he is also 
an essayist of not inconsiderable talent. The 
Glass Teat, a two-volume collection of 
pungent essays on television reprinted from 
his late Sixties column in the Los Angeles 
Free Press, was not only a groundbreaking 
work of media criticism but a penetrating 
and compelling look into the world of social 
unrest during the Vietnam Era.
Ellison’s new book, An Edge in My Voice, 
features more recent essays on a wide varie­
ty of tonics collected from his columns in 
L.A. Weekly, Future Life, and Comics Jour­
nal. At 54, Ellison, with his gritty, hard- 
edged style, is still the archetypical Angry 
Young Man, a sincere voice of moral and 
aesthetic indignation.
Among the most memorable essays is 
“Saturn, November 11th,” a gripping ac­
count from a layman’s point of view of the 
Voyager I flyby of Saturn in 1980. The 
author evokes a sense of wonder without the 
CarT Sagan sort of audience condescen­
sion. Earthbound but no less powerful is an 
essay about Norman Mayer. In 1982 Mayer 
threatened to destroy the Washington monu­
ment unless the government agreed to start 
a “national dialoerue” on the menance of 
nuclear proliferation. After a ten-hour
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
The last segment of the Forbes Gallery’s 
fall architecture series opens tonight from 7 
to 9 pm. This week’s show features the work 
of the students of the Paris Summer Ar­
chitecture program held this summer in 
(where else?) France.
Professors Stefani Ledewitz and Richard 
Cleary led the ten students of the program. 
Maria Buckingham, Stephan Ciulla, Simone 
Demirjian, Clemente Duran —Ballen, An­
thony Law, Donald Sivavec, Mary Beth 
Thiel, Gretchen Von Grossman, Jill Watson 
and James Yu will be displaying the work 
they completed during the summer through 
Sunday, October 6.
The Paris program was intended to 
stimulate an investigation of existing 
buildings, not to require students to design 
their own. The first two weeks were spent 
touring in the south of France and the 
five remaining weeks the students spent in 
Paris. Their studio was in the Ecole des 
Beaux Arts (famous as the inspiration for the 
Beaux Arts Ball), which presented problems. 
They only had access to their studios from
10 to 4 pm; architects are renowned for their 
all — nighters, so this was a problem indeed 
when their drawings were due.
Donald Sivavec, one of the exhibitors, says
By ADAM HANIN
Special to The Tartan
The CMU Activities Board wants to make 
Homecoming weekend a Romantic one. 
That’s why the Romantics will bring their 
Rhythm Romance tour to the CMU gym on 
Saturday, October 19 at 8pm.
Already established as hitmakers by 
singles such as “What I Like About You,’ 
“Talking In Your Sleep,” "One In A Million,” 
and “Rock You Up,” the Romantics are cur­
rently supporting their, new singles 
“Mystified” and “Test Of Time.”
But the Activities Board doesn’t feel that 
the concert is enough to make the weekend 
a Romantic one. Instead, every student
stalemate, Mayer was needlessly shot to 
death. America quickly forgot him, but 
Ellison’s portrait reveals that Mayer was not 
simply some “crazed nut,” but a compas­
sionate if terribly misguided man. His ploy 
was only a bluff; he had no explosives. He 
was just “a sad and driven mad old man who 
cared enough to take a few too many steps 
in our behalf.”
On the lighter side are such pieces as “The 
Great Hydrox/Oreo Cookie Conspiracy.” 
Before the Oreo there was something called 
the Hydrox cookie: “Snapping fresh and 
mysterious, a cookie that spoke of dark times 
before the written word, the wind flown 
across the top of the pyramids...the Stabat 
Mater of junk food.” “Dining as Action — 
Adventure” breathes new life into the dying 
old form the restaurant review. Eating at an 
L.A. dace called Shain’s, Ellison sees two 
suspicious-looking types come in. “They 
looked like a couple of home computer 
salesmen from Apple.. .beady little eyes like 
marmosets.” Intrepid Ellison was on hand to 
make gourmet-critic history as the thugs 
“took Uzzi machine guns from cabretta grain 
attache cases, opened fire, and blew awav 
the one-eyed man sitting at the table beside 
the window that looks out onto the patio, 
patio.”
Another piece details Ellison’s experiences 
as a judge in the 1983 “Miss Tush” pagent. 
The reflections range from the conceptual 
difficulties in consistently evaluating 
women’s posteriors “As Cindi (5’8”, brown 
eyes, brunette, married) passed before us,
“We didn’t want to say ‘Come see what we 
did this summer.’ We wanted to say, ‘Come 
see France.’” And so, although a great part 
of the show is devoted to slides of the pic­
tures they took this summer (people having 
fun, not just buildings), the main portion 
of the exhibition features samples from their 
sketchbooks and the one big project they all 
completed.
The projects attempted to portray “an at­
titude of the building on paper,” according 
to Stephan Ciulla, one of the students. Since 
they saw everything from Roman ruins to I. 
M. Pei’s new design for the Louvre, the pro­
jects vary widely in tone and styles of execu­
tion. The thing that makes them particular­
ly interesting is that they do not stick to 
traditional depictions of the buildings; the 
architects turn to more of an artist’s style of 
representation and a designer’s style of 
organization. A project may use a visually 
arresting design which combines elements of 
the facade of the building, elements of its 
interior, and sketches representing the feel­
ing the architect had about the building as 
a living entity. The project which explores 
the Dome of the Invalides, for example, 
combines its more traditionally “ architec­
tural” sketch with an arching, slightly blur­
red sketch of a mass of people.
This week’s show does more than show
dcket purchased will come with a Rythm 
Romance Raffle ticket as well.
The Grand Prize for the raffle includes 
a copy of Rhythm Romance, a romantic din­
ner for two at an Oakland restaurant, and 
backstage passes to meet the Romantics after 
the show. Also given out will be several se­
cond prizes of a copy of Rythm Romance.
Now, buying a concert ticket means more 
than just seeing a great show; you might just 
win something too. Tickets will go on sale 
at the Skibo Info Desk on Monday, October
7 at 9am. General admission tickets are $5 
for CMU students with valid ID (4 per stu­
dent) and $10 for everyone else. The concert 
is funded by your student activities fee.
ethereally turned out in a two-piece hand- 
painted emerald-green toga and briefs, I 
graded her.” to the sociological implications 
of such contests. An ardent feminist, Ellison 
justifies his involvement only by confessing
what ten architects can do in Paris on $2100 
in seven weeks. It shows the spirit of France, 
and the spirit of the show’s creators. Some 
of the other delightful “spirits” of France will 
be around tonight—for those of you who 
need special convincing.
The Forbes Gallery is open Wednesday 
through Friday, 11 am to 6 pm, and Satur­
day and Sunday from noon to 5 pm. Open­
ings are every Tuesday from 7-9 pm.
The artistic collaboration of a 
choreographer, artist, and dramatist is visi­
ble in Camegie-Mellon University’s premier 
performance of “One Who Cared: An 
Homage to Janusz Korczak,” Oct. 3-6 in the 
Kresge Theatre.
The production is co-sponsored by 
Camegie-Mellon’s College of Fine Arts and 
the Holocaust Center of Greater Pittsburgh. 
It is a collaboration of choreographer An­
na Sokolow, Camegie-Mellon artist Bruce 
Carter, and librettist Matti Megged.
Janusz Korczak was the director of a War­
saw orphanage during the Nazi occupation. 
He accompanied 200 children from his or­
phanage in Treblinka, rather than let them 
face death alone. This dramatic story of 
Korczak, a Polish Jew, is chronicled in a 
dance drama, directed and choreographed 
by Sokolow and inspired by “The Warsaw 
Woodcuts,” created by Carter.
Miss Sokolow began her dance career as 
a member of the Martha Graham Company 
in 1930, and formed her own company in 
1934. She gained recognition as a pioneer 
in modem dance choreography and subse­
quently founded the first modem dance 
group in Mexico. Miss Sokolow also co- 
founded Israel’s Inbal Dance Company and 
returns yearly to set pieces on this company. 
Currently Miss Sokolow continues with her 
own company, is associated with the Julliard 
School, and frequently travels around the 
world as guest choreographer.
Bruce Carter’s series, ‘The Warsaw Wood­
cuts,” depicts the events that led up to Korc-
that “it seemed like a good idea at the time.”
Ellison also tackles a host of controversial 
issues, including the ERA, gun control, 
violence in movies, and the debate over so- 
called “Creation Science.” The mediocrity of 
modern merchandise is explored in a piece 
entitled "Why Everything is Fucked Up, 
Since You Asked.” Among the more personal 
essays are an angst-ridden eulogy to late 
science fiction filmmaker George Pal and the 
story of the rise and nearly fatal (to the 
author) fall of his beloved ‘67 Camaro.
Harlan Ellison’s writing, while at times 
over-indulgent and melodramatic, is also 
ceaselessly inventive, witty and almost always 
provokes an emotional response of some sort. 
You might love him, you might hate him, 
but once you start reading him you’ll always 
want to read more.
zak’s death. Carter won the 1983 Janusz 
Korczak Memorial Medal for his work and 
teachings. His woodcuts form the backdrop 
for this powerful performance. Carter’s 
works have been exhibited around the world 
and have won awards in Japan, Italy, Nor­
way, Israel, Poland, Australia, and the 
United States.
Other artist included in the production 
are Matti Megged, Joel Thome, and Yossi 
Kipnis. Megged is the librettist and his ac­
complishments include the Jerusalem Prize 
for Literature for his novel, Dani’s Last Day. 
Joel Thome is the composer and he created 
the original musical score for “One Who 
Cared.” This will be Thome’s fifth collabora­
tion with Miss Sokolow as composer. Thome 
also guest conducts for orchestras such as the 
Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra and the Los 
Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra. Israeli ac­
tor, Yossi Kipnis portrays Janusz Korczak. 
Kipnis gained recognition in Israel and has 
worked as a performer/assistant to Anna 
Sokolow since 1961.
The production is supported by grants 
from The National Endowment for the Arts, 
the American Israeli Cultural Foundation, 
the United Jewish Federation of Greater Pitt­
sburgh, and the Holocaust Center of Greater 
Pittsburg.
Performances on October 4th, 5th and 
6th begin at 8:00 pm. There is an additional 
matinee at 2:00 pm on October 6th. CMU 
students who present a valid I.D. at the box 
office 15 minutes before a performance will 
receive one complimentary ticket.
Forbes Gallery shows more architecture
AB Concerts: The Romantics
A tribute to Janusz Korczak

---------------------------------------------------

Metro MusicAB CONCERTS AND AB DANCE PRESENT:
//RHYTHM ROMANCE"
• TICKETS GO ON SALE MONDAY, 
OCTOBER 7, 9 AM.
• EACH TICKET PURCHASED WILL 
ENTER THE PURCHASER IN A 
RHYTHM ROMANCE RAFFLE. GRAND 
PRIZE INCLUDES A ROMANTIC DIN­
NER FOR 2, AND BACKSTAGE PASSES 
TO MEET THE ROMANTICS.
TOUR
WITH A SPECIAL GUEST
itf'Waiti
::í
' '
-tmm
-- ; ' - *. fe-
mmm
Saturday, October 19 
8:00 pm CMU Gym
General Admission Tickets 
$5.00 for CMU Students 
Available at Skibo Information Desk
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

October 1,1985-The Tartan-Page 13
Junior Rep presents Ibsen's A Doll House
By JONATHAN STEELE
Special to the Tartan
The Junior Reps second production was 
Henrik Ibsen’s A Doll House. This play was 
monumental in its impact at the end of the 
19th century. The notion of a woman leav­
ing her husband and children sent shock 
waves around the western world. Ibsen was 
villifled, denounced as degenerate, and 
became a household name for controversy. 
Even today, the idea of a mother leaving her 
children is controversial and raises emotional 
questions of propriety and decorum. Of 
course, this is precisely the effect Ibsen 
wanted. The more people discussed the ideas 
and questions of his plays, the more chance 
that meaningful changes would come to 
rigid social attitudes and customs.
Ibsen had a revolutionary aura and always 
seemed to be the center of controversy. Most 
of the plays of his realistic cycle were writ­
ten after he left Norway to live in self- 
imposed exile in Germany and Italy. Ibsen’s 
vision was far in advance of his times, and 
his work was constantly received with opposi­
tion and critical hostility. He rebelled against 
the conventions of society which perpetrated 
empty traditions, and restricted the artistic 
and intellectual search for truth. Above all, 
he urged that people be honest with 
themselves.
The Spectator
Probably the most effective of his crusades 
against the oppression of society came in his 
efforts to liberate women from the con­
straints of Victorianism. Nora was one of 
several of his strong characterizations of 
women in intense conflict with the roles im­
posed on them by society. Others were found 
in Ghosts, Hedda Gabler, and Rosmersholm. 
The Feminist movement is still an urgent 
force in world culture, and many theorists 
believe that the liberation of women is one of 
the great accomplishments of Modernism.
The Junior Rep production took some 
chances and mostly succeeded with them. 
The concept stripped the play to the bone
both in cutting of the script and in the set­
tings. Stark images heightened the effect and 
mood of the play, and deliberate breaks 
from reality provided expressionistic aspects 
that worked to illuminate the subtext of the 
play.
Pamela Winslow played Nora with great 
intensity. She showed the rebelliousness of 
Nora’s lying and pretending that she is a lit­
tle girl around Torval. But she also hinted 
at the darker side of Nora, who does not care 
for society’s notions of right and wrong. Miss 
Winslow carried off Nora’s stuggles with 
believability, and showed strength in the 
climactic, powerful final scene. Chris Coad 
was a good Torval against Winslow’s Nora. 
He showed Torval’s humanity in his sensual 
attraction for Nora, and also captured the 
hypocritical priggishness of the character. 
Krisie Spear was an attractive, intelligent 
Kristine, but she could have shown the 
darker colors of Kristine’s intensity more. 
Michael Curley underplayed Krogstad effec­
tively. David Lockheart had the understan­
ding of the character of Dr. Rank, but he
should have gone farther with it.
Director Barbara MacKenzie-Wood did 
an interesting job with this challenging 
masterpiece. As the program notes pointed 
out, she managed to find something new in 
this classic. The production was played 
without intermission, and the nominal act 
breaks were filled with unique images. The 
spare settings by Alla Chertok were effective 
and evocative. Lighting by Linda Colclaser 
was quite good, as were the costumes by 
Lillian Glasser.
A Doll House played in the Studio 
Theather for two performances on Monday, 
Sept. 23.
Random Rock
The classic Judas Preist song The 
Green Manalishi with the Two­
pronged Crown was originally written 
and recorded by Fleetwood Mac.
First, assume the recruiters at the Boston Consulting Group won’t be impressed by a”B”in Corporate Finance.
; ZD a QMS
A V* %J AY- %
™ «tofc/S SS? CLX
Second, assume a “B-Grade” calculator won’t 
be good enough to help you make the grade in 
“B-School”
We suggest you get a calculator that has 
no equal.
The HP-12C.
So advanced, it doesn’t need an “equals” key. 
So extremely simple to use, you’ll be mastering 
even the toughest courses.
The HP-12C is a recognized standard in the 
world of business. Ask any banker. Or financial 
analyst. Or consultant.
It offers more built-in financial calculating 
power than any other hand held. Press just 
one key and quickly solve time value of money 
calculations like net present value, internal 
rate of return, or amortization.
The HP-12C’s quality has no equal. That’s 
something you can see. Even feel. Right down 
to the touch of the keys.
They’re specifically designed to eliminate 
double entry. So you wont enter more than one 
number at a time.
It’s a calculator you’ll appreciate even more 
as time progresses and as you progress. From 
the classroom to the boardroom.
So make a smart investment right now.
Go to your campus bookstore and get an 
HP-12C.
Or call (800) FOR-HPPC toll-free. Ask for 
Dept. 735A. We’ll instantly give you the name
of a dealer who 
has no equal.
Then write to 
this address a little 
later on.
Exchange Place, 
Boston, MA 02109.
It’s the interna­
tional headquar­
ters of the Boston 
ConsultingGroup.
m
HEWLETT 
PACKARD
PG12512

---------------------------------------------------

88o3fm STEREOPITTSBURGH. PA
TIME
12 Mdnight
1 AM
2 A.M.
3 AM
4 AM.
5 A.M.
6 A.M.
7 AM.
8 A.M.
9AM
10 AM
11 A.M.
12 Noon
1 P.M.
2 PM
3 P .M.
A P M.
5 P.M
? P .M
8 P .M.
9 PM
10 PM
1 P.M.
Cosmic Flapjacks 
wf BFP 
Space, Ambient, 
Electronic
Insomniac Jazz Fest 
w/ Melodius Thunk 
Jazz, and lots of it!
Sunday Morning 
Extras w/ Rayro 
Jazz, Fusion, Folk, 
Acoustic
Static Lethargy w/ 
Daysleeper 
Jazz, Rock, New 
Wave
Stohcastic Quince 
Messengerw^ Ovid 
Industrial, Hardcore, 
Experiment aJ
Fun with John and 
Derter 
Any musicai type, 
plus Comedy
The Rhythms of the 
Beat wi Les 
Funk, R&B, Jazz
Mutant Misic w i 
Fetko 
Various & Uncatigor- 
izable Musics
MONDAYTUESDAY
das Es w/ Perry
Electronic, E^peri- 
mentaJ, Weird
Bottom of the Radio 
Dial w/ Phil Phiction 
Blues, Jazz, Fusion, 
Old Rock
The A to Zed wf 
Liwayway 
Dub, Techno-boogie, 
Hip Hop, Soul, Jazz
A Swim in the Lab wf 
Arthur 
New Wave, Rock
Keith
Old Rock, Jazz, 
New Wave
Research w/ Scott 
Hawkins 
Psych, Garage, New 
Rock, Hardcore
Playing a Role and 
Coming a Part wi 
Sean
Classical, Rock, Jazz
Beat Her With a Rake 
w/ JC 
Rock, Comedy
Mad Mxin' w/ The 
Inspector 
Funk, Dance, Rap
The Piano Bench wI 
bA. Glich 
Electronic, Rock
Fun with The Queen 
of Radio Pom 
Pop, New Wave, Fun
Cool, Dry Drink wf 
Rob
Reggae, Progressive
Green Eggs & Spam 
wi Sam I Am 
Progressive, New 
Music
Necrodance w/ Mke 
Usually 
Gothic. Dance, Punk
Sportsline
The Heimlich 
Maneveuverwf 
J.P. Cheesethrust 
Hardcore, Thrash
Unsightly and Serene 
w t Clare 
Neuroprogressive
URCT 5020 Forbes flwe. Pittsburgh, PR 15213

---------------------------------------------------

AfotV?
Funded by Student Activities Fee
WEDNESDAY
Finished Joints and 
Board Surfaces wf 
Sam and Sarah 
Locai, Space, Altem
Time U.C. wf Stormin’ 
Norman
Punk, Boston bands
’From Parts Unknown 
wf Sacco Yanzetti 
Jazz, Straight-up
Passionate Cabaret 
wf Z.J.
New & Old Rock,
* Fusion
Dr. Caligari
Psych, Garage, Punk, 
New Music
1 THURSDAY II FRIDAY
Constrained Chaos 
w f Corwin 
Old Rock
Bop *n’ Blues w f 
WillyY.
| Blues, Traditional 
Jazz
Jesse
Early morning music
Evolution wf Mark 
Jazz, Fusion
Coffee at 70 MPH wf 
Dan
New Music, Dance, 
Ska
At the Mountains 1 of Madness
w/ Cthulhu & Mule Rock, Metal, Space 
Comedy, Beak 1
The Wake wf Spectre
Psych, New Wave, 
Rock, Jazz, Blues
1iFuture Shock/Garrett 
Dance, Pop, Rock
Tall Steve 
Classical, Jazz
c1
f
it
New York Talk Show 
Rap, R&B, Dance
Off The Cuff wf Dave 
Psych, Rock, Blues
SATURDAY
With a Hip wf Phaedra
Psych, BubbleGum, 
Drone, Surf
Hot Licks wf Ax Manic 
Guitar, Rock, Fusion
i Baby Snakes wf 
Chuck Farley 
Music From the other 
Side of the Fence
Beer in Your Ear wf 
Bill
Rock, Blues, Jazz, 
Ethnic
Modem Angst wf 
Norbert 
Reggae, Modem Stuff
The Red, Gold, and 
Green wf June 
Reggae
Radio Fred 
Rock and Punk
Shining Nauseum wf 
Redhot Rosa
Genre du Jourwf Neil 
Jordan & C.D. Carter 
Dance, New Wave, 
R8.B, Rock, Jazz
The Raven's Wig-Out
Trash, Garage, 
Grunge, Psych
Kiltie Surprise wf 
Flash 
Old Rock to 
Classical
Firehouse Blues wf 
Clairesse 
Rock, Jazz, Fusion, 
Folk, Ambient
One of These Days wf 
Don
Rock, Fusion, Jazz, 
Old Rock, Blues
-Tax.*- - Second cVfcy 
style L.IÍA. -
WRCT <LDotëwpcf- 
j ary t &>Sion
Louder FasterShorter 
wf Otto 
Hardcore, Ugly
Neurotica wf Jeff 
Stafford 
Rock, Blues, 
Crimson
Possible Fruit wf
Industrial,
HardcorejNeoPsychJ
Request Lines: 578-2883 op 621-URCT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—October 1,1985
Pittsburgh Symphony: Richard Stoitzman
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
For the third time this season, Heinz Hall 
was filled with the sounds of classical music. 
Playing Mozart’s Clarinet Concerto and 
Gustav Mahler’s Symphony No. 1, the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra once again 
delighted audiences with pleasant melodies 
and flowing passages.
Even though the orchestra played the first 
selection extremely well, they were over­
shadowed by the refined artistic genius of the 
clarinet soloist, Richard Stoitzman.
To say that Richard Stoitzman is the best 
clarinetist alive is almost an understatement. 
His has unparalleled balance throughout the 
entire dynamic range of his instrument, as 
well as rich, deep, and colorful tones. With 
his insightful understanding of musical ex­
pression and phrasing, it is easy to see why 
Stoitzman playing is unequalled by any 
other clarinetist.
Stolzman began his clarinet studies with 
Keith Wilson at Yale, then moved to Kalman 
Opperman at Columbia. Although he at­
tributes a great deal of his success to these 
two teachers, his style is not a reflection of 
any one person or style. Instead of the rather
routine and narrow interpretations that 
many of his peers present, Stolzman plays 
a unique and insightful rendition every 
performance.
His playing is so far above everyone else, 
that in 1982 he was bestowed the honor of 
being the first clarinetist ever to give a recital 
at Carnegie Hall (the recital was so suc­
cessful that he was asked to perform again 
in 1984).
His artistic prowness is not confined to the 
concert hall. In 1983, his album of Brahms 
clarinet sonatas won a Grammy Award, and 
he received a nomination the next year for 
his recording of Mozart, Weber, and Rossini 
clarinet concertos.
His latest album, due out in October, will 
show a different side of Stolzman—jazz. As 
a jazz musician, Stolzman modestly con­
siders himself an “amatuer”. Instead of stub­
bornly ignoring his inexperience and believ­
ing that his classical background will suffice, 
Stolzman wisely chooses to seek out the ad­
vice of established jazz musicians. Taking 
lessons from such jazz greats as Eddie Gomez 
and Woody Herman, Stolzman is learning 
a great difference in style and structure of 
jazz and classical. With his talent combin­
ed with the excellent instruction of Gomez 
and others, Stolzman may soon dominate 
both classical and jazz mediums — a feat that 
may stand the test of time.
On Friday, Stolman’s performance of 
Mozart’s Clarinet Concerto was no less than 
dazzling. The concerto, one of the final 
works of Mozart’s career, utilizes the dif­
ferences in tone color of the registers of the 
instrument, and the range often shifts 
among the low, middle, and upper pitches 
of the clarinet.
These jumps up and down the registers 
are what Stoitzman does best. If you could 
hear Stoitzman play the concerto, you would 
think that Mozart wrote the piece with 
Stoitzman in mind.
Stolzman turned the unusually short 
cadenza in the second movement into a 
lengthy and brilliant and lengthy showpiece. 
His tone was so pure, that even the softest 
note could be clearly heard throughout 
Heinz Hall.
I don’t want to detract from the Pit­
tsburgh Symphony’s rendition of Mahler’s 
First Symphony (which was extremely well , 
done), but the piece was so different than 
the Mozart Concerto that it didn’t really 
work well. It is hard to believe that the or­
chestra would drop all the momentum that 
it worked .50 hard to achieve in the first half, 
and start from scratch again. When will 
Lorin Maazel (the Music Consultant) realize 
the program should have a defmate direc­
tion, rather than a haphazard scattering of 
ideas?
newmusic newmusic
By DR. CALIGARI
Special to The Tartan
Wimpyness abounds. It’s positively ram­
pant. Just check out the latest Black Flag 
record In My Head. Henry etc. have ob­
viously decided that they aren’t popular
DOMINO’SPIZZA
What group released the 
number one hit song 
“Layla” in 1971?
What year did Domino’s 
Pizza begin delivering its 
custom-made pizzas?
For Answers see below.
C'
a
</>
Ö
z <
H
2 N 
ON 
o a
The more you know about 
Domino’s Pizza, the more you’ll appreciate the fact that we’re America’s Number One pizza deli­very company. After all, 
getting a hot, delicious pizza like ours delivered right to your door in 30 minutes or less is anything 
but trivial!
Open for lunch11am- 2am Sun. - Thurs. 
11am-3am Frl&Sat. .
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00.Limited delivery area.
©1984 Domino’s Pizza, Inc.
0961 >•ouituOQ am pue xaj»a •£ 
ByKARENW
DOMINO’S PIZZA ¦ DELIVERS FREE. ¦
L,
r1
$1.00 off any 
pizzaOne coupon per pizza 
Expires: 10/13/85
Fast, Free Delivery’“
310 N. Craig St Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970
TM
$2.00 off any 16” large
2 item or more pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 10/13/85
Fast, Free Delivery”310 N. Craig St 
Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ava 
Phone: 521-2970
enough with hardcore fans and so they’re 
continuing their tradition of putting out 
comparatively mellow music. Let’s be non— 
hardcore . Can you say “sell out”? Can you 
say “wimpy”? Can you say “wake me when 
it’s over”? Black Flag started out as a really 
great band and it’s too bad that they’re now 
wimpifying. Especially since they’ve got yet 
another record coming out later this year.
God’s Favorite has put out a new wimpy 
album too: Myrmidon. Well kids, it’s an 
epidemic. This time it’s not wimpy hardcore, 
it’s wimpy 60’s pop. Their label refers to it 
as “an intriguing mix of 60s harmonies and 
soft spoken psychedelic pop songs.” Intrigu­
ing? Hah! As for soft spoken, let’s talk 
whisper. If you want good 60’s “soft spoken 
psychedelic” music check out the Rain 
Parade’s albums. They’re soft and pretty 
without losing their vitality.
Another wimpy new album to avoid is 
The Dream Academy. They could very well 
be the kings of wimpydom. Mix Aztec
continued on page 17
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER 
CALL 
683-3555
INCORPORATIONS 
LANDLORD - TENANT 
CRIMINAL LAW - TRIAL DEFENSE
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW 
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND
m
HEWLETT
PACKARD
LIST
PRICE
OUR
PRICE.MODEL CALCULATORS 
HP-11C Slim-Line Scientific 75 00 59.95
HP-IZC Advanced Financial 120 00 89.95
HP-15C Advanced Scientific 12C 00 89.95
HP-16C Digital Programmer 120 00 89.95
HP-41 CV Handheld Computer 225 00 165.00 
HP-41CX Handheld Computer 325 00 245.00 
HP-71B Handheld Computer 525 00 395.00
All calculators in stock for same 
day delivery. Call for prices on 
products not listed.
COMPUTER PRODUCTS*DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS SUPPLY
699 Seneca St.
Buffalo, NY 14210
Call:. (716) 85^-0004
V

---------------------------------------------------

October 1,1985—The Tartan—Page 17
Etheridge Knight is a different sort of poet
By MARK CARR
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, Black American poet 
Etheridge Knight read a selection of his work 
at Hemingway’s Cafe in Oakland. Knight’s 
background is somewhat more interesting 
than that of the average poet: after commit-
prisoned for almost a decade. An ex-junkie, 
he has suffered near-fatal overdoses. His first 
book, published in 1968, is titled Poems 
from Prison.
Hemingway’s back room was packed that 
evening. Aspiring writers, published authors, 
the curious, and the tipsy gathered to listen
ting armed robbery in 1960, he was im- to the streetwise Knight. Before the reading
River City Brass Band
The River City Brass Band salutes march 
music from around the world when it 
presents the second concert o*" its 1985/86 
season, Best Foot Foward!, on Saturday, Oc­
tober 12 at 8:00 p.m. at Carnegie Music Hall 
in Oakland; on Sunday, October 13 at 7:30 
p.m. at the South Hills Theatre in Dormont; 
and on Tuesday, October 15 at 8 p.m. at 
Gateway High School in Monroeville.
Bernard Black, RCBB’s solo cometist, will 
be featured in a dazzling and virtuosic air 
varie entitled The Amazing Mr. Arban by 
British composer Elgar Howarth. Mr. Black 
has been a member of the RCBB since its 
beginnings. He is a Pittsburgh native and a 
graduate of CMU, where he studied under 
trumpet teacher Anthony Pasquarelli.
Another highlight of the program will be 
Pageantry, Suite for Brass Band by the 
distinguished contemporary British com­
poser Herbert Howells.
Also, as the title suggests, there will be 
plenty of marches. Audiences will hear such 
familiar march tunes as the Light Cavalry 
Overture, Radetsky March, and On the 
Mall, as well as marches from countries 
around the world; and, of course, 
American’s own march king, John Phillip 
Sousa will be represented when the audience 
chooses a popular Sousa march for the band 
to play.
Tickets to the Best Foot Forward! concert 
are available at the TIX Booth on Oliver 
Plaza, or by phoning 322-7222.
began, the room buzzed with questions:
Would he be hostile? Abusive? Would he be 
straight? When the poet arrived and began 
to read, all such suspicions were laid to rest.
The 54-year-old Knight was neither bit­
ter nor belligerent. A friendly, jocular man, 
he radiated a sense of warmth and humor 
throughout the reading. Settling onto a stool 
and leaning against the wall, he proceeded 
to “say” his poetry.
Many of the poems Knight read reflect his 
experiences in Indiana State Prison. Here 
was the anger and the pain, yet these emo­
tions were usually tempered with humor.
WThile most of Knight’s poems are written 
in free verse, he also composes haiku and ex­
periments with various rhyme schemes.
Complaining that modem poetry is too deep 
and solemn, he read some of his “fun” 
poems. Even when relating a conversation Hemingway’s on Tuesday nights.
Sunday: David Rubinoff
with the warden or a tale of solitary confine­
ment, he has the ability to give cir­
cumstances an amusing tone.
The poet invited and good-naturedly 
responded to any comments from the audi­
ence: he answered questions about his own 
poetic preterenccs and even re-read par­
ticularly effective poems. Knight has no ar­
tistic pretensions about his methods; it was 
refreshing to hear him tell how he “made up” 
his poems. When speaking of his experiences 
with the academic community, Knight liken­
ed himself to a man who “became a preacher 
and then went to seminarv”
Etheridge Knight’s reading was sponsored 
by the University of Pittsburgh’s English 
Department. Pitt is publishing a new collec­
tion of his poetry in the near future. Fiction 
and poetry readings that usually feature 
local authors are held in the back room of
newmusic newmusic
continued from page 16
Camera with the calculation of Abba, throw 
a saxophone and some lush production 
(by David Gilmour) and you’ll have The 
Dream Academy: wimpy pseudo-baroque 
music for elevators. Is there anything good 
about this band? Yes. They’ve got potential 
and if they work hard at it they might even 
come up with something good. If not, 
they’re sure to be a commercial success 
anyway.
Ok, so is there anything good worth listen- 
* ing to? Amazingly enough, yes. Husker Du 
has put out another album Flip Your Wig.
If you liked them when they were hardcore, 
you won’t like it, but it is really good. Say 
“postmodern.” This is a true mix of styles. 
The title song even sounds a bit ska. It isn’t 
as good as their other albums but it’s still 
a lot better than most of the commercial 
tripe put out today.
Now let’s end this with an excellent 
album. Skinny Puppy’s Bites has just come 
out and absolutely rules. This is, without a 
doubt, the best new vinyl to come out since 
Nico. It’s got all sorts of tape loop and noise 
effects and is comparable to Chrome. Buy 
this or die. It’s truly incredible.
Some know him as “The Maestro.” Others 
call him simply “Rubinoff.” The world- 
renowned violinist’s full name is David 
Rubinoff, and hell perform, using his 
two-century-old Stradivarius violin in the 
Plaza of PPG Place, Sunday, October 6, at 
2 p.m.
The 88 year old music legend was bom 
in Russia and began playing the violin at 
five. By the time he was 14, he was a 
graduate of the Warsaw Conservatory. His 
career has spanned the globe and most of 
the 20th century.
Rubinoff has performed for audiences 
that have included Presidents Hoover, 
Franklin Roosevelt, Eisenhower, and Ken­
nedy; American soldiers in World War II 
and Vietnam; 225,000 people at Chicago’s 
Grant Park; and millions of radio listeners 
of the Chase and Sanborn Hour, The Rex- 
al, Pedeco, and Chevrolet Programs.
As a conductor, Rubinoff directed such 
music legends as Benny Goodman, Artie 
Shaw, Glenn Miller, and Tommy Dorsey. He 
still has a poem that was inscribed on a 
watch, given to him by his old friend Will 
Rogers.
“From each event in my life, from every 
performance, and with each hour spent 
playing, I have learned,” says the Maestro. 
“Even now, I continue to learn, striving for 
perfection.
“I have known some who have come as 
close to perfection, as is possible, and from 
each I have tried to gain further insight to 
improve my own playing. It is more than my 
life’s work. It is my life.”
Rubinoff will perform only once, Sunday, 
and will include some of his most classic 
selections in the program. The scheduled 
rain date for the program is the following 
Sunday, October 13.
Silky's in Squirrel Hill
Best Burgers, Pizza, Steaks!
Tall Texas Drafts!
DJ spinning oldies: Thu., Fri., Sat. 
$1.00 Import Night, Tues. 
Darts! Shuffleboard!
Open Sunday 
Mon.-Sun.
3 p.m.-2 a.m.
2701 Murray Ave. 
Morrowfields Aps. 
(Near Poli's)
Great Fun!Coupon
Worth 20% off Food Check 5-9 PIW
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 
(412) 687-1112
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit C
Now YOU csn heve two of the Boat recognized end accepted credit cerda ln the world...VISA® end Haatercard^ creditcards___"In your ntae" EVEN IF YOU AU NEW IN CREDIT axHAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEPOREI
VISA* and MasterCard^ the 
credit carda you deeerve and need for * 10 * BOOKS • DEPARTMENT STOEES * TUITION • EHTEBTAINMENT • OtERCENCT CASH • TICKETS • RESTAURANTS * MOTELS t HOTELS • CAS • CAl RENTALS * REPAIRS * AMD TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATIMCI la the credit card Information kit atudenta have been reading about in pubilcatlone fro« coaat to coaat end lncludee SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATIONS for MaaterCard 4 Viaa ea well aa other national charge cards. Approval abeolutely guaranteed so 
Hurry.... fill out this card today.... 
Your credit cards sre weltingI
This
CREDITCETTER,BOX 291584, DAVIE,FL 33329
YES! I want VIS/^MasterCard^credit 
cards. Enclosed find $15 which is 100X 
refundable if not approved immediately
NAME
ADORÉ SS
CITYSTATE ZIP
PHONESOC SECURITY •
SIGNATURE

---------------------------------------------------

NEW MAIL SYSTEM TO BE INTRODUCED 
ON COMPUTATION CENTER TOPS-20'S
To keep pace with the changes taking place in electronic communica­
tions, the TOPS-20 mail system is changing. A new set of mail programs 
will be installed on Computation Center TOPS-20 systems:
Monday, October 7 TOPS-E
Wednesday, October 9 TOPS-A, TOPS B, TOPS-C,
TOPS D, and TOPS F
Part of this installation will include the introduction of a new version 
of MM, (Mail Manager). This new MM will be the only mail system sup­
ported by the Computation Center. Other mail systems now available 
on TOPS (MS, MAIL, RDMAIL) will be removed in early November.
TOPS users who have been using other mail systems are now asked 
to make the transition to the new MM. If you have been using other mail 
systems are now asked to make the transition to the new MM. If you have 
been using MS or the old MM, the transition should not be a difficult 
one. If you are familiar with MS, the following information will help 
to answer some of the questions you might have about the new MM.
MS to MM: Making the Transition
Q: I’ve been using MS for three years. Why do I need to start using 
MM?
A: There are philosophical reasons and there is a practical reason.
Philosophically, MM is a more desirable mail system to meet current 
needs. It is easier for the programmers to maintain. It more closely mat­
ches the specifications required for sending mail over today’s networks. 
If you are a frequent MS user, you may be aware of its bugs and short­
comings (particularly in dealing with the advancements in network ad­
dressing). You will find MM to be more reliable and more adaptable 
to the expanding electronic communications environment.
Practically, the Computation Center will no longer support MS. It will 
quickly become obsolete, and eventually it will be removed completely. 
MM will be the supported mail system.
You are encouraged to begin using MM as soon as it becomes available. 
At the basic level, MM and MS are very similar. If you have been using 
MS without a lot of customization, you will not notice much difference 
with MM. The differences are outlined later.
Q: WThere can I find out about MM?
A: The primary source for information about MM is the MM Reference 
Manual that is available in public PC clusters or online in the file 
HLP:MM-REFERENCE.DOC. It explains all of the MM commands and 
special features. If you have used MS for some time, you will want to 
refer to this document.
An MM Primer is also available for those who are not familiar with 
any electronic mail system. It outlines the basics of MM. If you are just 
getting started with computer mail, this is the document you should read. 
It is in the clusters or online as the file HLP:MM-PRIMER.DOC.
MM also has extensive help built right in. You can type “HELP” almost 
anywhere inside MM and get a help message displayed.
Q: Will I need to make any changes to my mail file?
A: No. MM will continue to use your current mail file. In fact, bugs 
in MS that were fouling mail files have been overcome in MM. MM can 
overlook any problems that MS may have caused without adding any 
new ones of it own.
Q: Can I use my MS.INIT file with MM?
A: No. MM uses an initilizaion file, but in a different format. You will 
find that some of the MM default characteristics are different than what 
you are familiar with in MS.
Q: How do I deal with the different defaults?
A: The MM initialization file is known as MM.INIT. The easiest way 
to create your first MM.INIT file is to use the PROFILE command within 
MM. The PROFILE command prompts you for your preferences about 
some of the basic options and saves them in an MM.INIT file.
After you have used MM for a while, you may want to make further 
changes. MM has numerous options avbailable for customization. Use 
the SET command to specify the options. (The built-in help facility is 
useful here. Type “HELP SET ?” to list the available options; “HELP 
SET option” to read about a specific option; and SHOW to display alist 
of the current settings of all the options). The CREATE-INIT command 
saves your changes in a new copy of MM.INIT.
Q: What are the major differences that the average MS user is likely 
to come across?
A: Although there are a number of differences between MM and MS, 
these are the ones that people notice the most:
• The Prompts. The first thing you will notice is that MM uses very 
short prompts (MM^, R^\ S^\ Fortunately, you can design your own 
with the SET command.
• Saving Outgoing Mail. Many users want to be able to keep copies 
of all messages that they send. In MS the command was SAVE- 
OUTGOING MESSAGES. In MM the command is SET SAVED 
MESSAGES-FILE. (The MM command to set Mail-Copy-File has a dif­
ferent purpose).
• Addressing Mail. The introduction of the new MM has been accom­
panied by changes in other mail-related programs. One change is in the 
manner that you address mail if you wish to use a person’s name instead 
of his/her user id. A person’s name in an address must now be one con­
tinuous string of characters, the first and last names separated with a 
period (William.Shakespeare, for example).
• Sending Mail. In MS the defaults after entering text 
were Ctrl-Z to send the mail and ^ESC ? to return to the Send Level 
Prompt. In MM both Ctrl-Z and ^ESC^ return to Send Level. To 
send a message in MM, you then type SEND or just the ^Return ? 
key. (You can change these defaults in MM with the SET ESCAPE- 
AUTOMATIC-SEND command).
• Address Lists. Address lists (distribution lists) are not 
created within MM as they are in MS. Address lists for MM are 
separate files and not part of the 
MM.INIT file. You create the file with Emacs. More about this later.
• Defining an Alias. MM has no feature for defining an 
abbreviation or substitute name for an address. This capability can 
be roughly duplicated in MM by creating a unique address list for 
each “alias” desired.
• Keywords. KEYWORD in MS was a message sequence 
used to search the body of a message for a particular text string. 
The equivalent message sequence in MM is TEXT. In MM keywords 
have an additional meaning. You can define a list of keywords in 
MM that you can then use to classify messages. The MM Reference 
Manual explains how to do it.
• Message Headers. MS had the option of specifying 
message headers as “predefined,” “required,” or “optional.” MM does 
not support the “required” header. In MM, a message header that 
will be the same and appear in every message you send is created 
with the SET HEADER-OPTIONS (equivalent to the MS “predefin­
ed” header). An “optional” header can be defined in MM with the 
SET USER-HEADER command and then inserted in a message with 
the USER-HEADER command (at Send Level).
• Listing Network Node Names. MM is not able to pro­
vide a list of all available network mail nodes in response to “?” when 
entering a user’s name and address. There are plans to provide an 
external facility that will provide such information.
• NET-MAIL Command. The NET-MAIL command 
is not available in MM. Mail waiting to be delivered is stored in a 
central, common file rather than in individual files in user direc­
tories. This procedure makes the delivery of mail much more effi­
cient, since the program that actually delivers the mail must look 
in only one place to find all the outgoing messages. The new mailer 
program has been redesigned to greatly reduce the need for users 
to resort to “net-mailing” their messages. You can use the new EX­
EC level command, MAILQ, to check on the delivery status of outgo­
ing mail.
Q: In MS I used address lists to send mail to a group of people without 
always typing in their names. How do I do that in MM?
A: An MM address list is simply a file, created with an editor, that con­
tains the individual users’ mail addresses. The form of the file is
group-name: user name, user name, user name, 
user name, user name, user name
where “group-name” is the name you optionally assign to the group, and 
“user name” is a valid mailing address. The group name is followed by 
a colon. Notice also that the names can continue to more than one line. 
Each name (except the last in the list is followed by a comma.
When prompted for an address by MM, use the file name preceded 
by an to insert the address list.
For example, you could list the members of a task force in an address 
list in a file called TASK. FORCE:
Task-Force: GH03, Debbie.Nigra, Alice.Conniff@cmu-cc-tb
cat@cmu-vice-postoffice, SJ03, CA11, SROR, MPOR, RCOT@TB 
Then any time you are prompted for an address, you can respond with 
To: @TASK FORCE
to have all names in the address list included as recipients. If a group 
name is included in the file, the header of the message will not contain 
the complete list of names in the address list. Instead, only the group 
name will be shown. If the group name is omitted from the address list, 
each name in the list will be included in the header.
Q: Where can I get help with MM?
More information about MM is available in the Computation Center 
documents already mentioned. If you have questions about the transi­
tion, you can direct them to a Computation Center User Consultant, in 
person at the User Consultant’s office UCC 100C, by phone at extension 
2667, or via computer mail to REMARKS.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
James interception turns game around.
Tartans tackle Tterriers: still undefeated
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans, aided by 
a last minute interception by Andrew James, 
defeated the Hiram Terriers, 35-21, on 
Saturday at Tech Field.
Hiram, led by sophomore quarterback 
Ron Devorsky, scored their third touchdown 
of the game on a one-yard run by freshman 
Bobby Starks with 6:24 remaining in the 
game to bring the Terriers within seven 
points, 28-21.
Hiram got the ball back with 2:03 re­
maining still trailing by seven points. 
Devorsky completed four out of five passes 
for 37 yards, and a 15 yard personal foul 
against CMU brought the Terriers to the 
CMU 31 yard line. Devorsky, who has had 
trouble with turnovers so far this year, drop­
ped back looking to the left sideline for 
Gregg Gorcica. Devorsky, never saw free safe­
ty James until it was too late. James stepped 
in front of Gorcica and returned the ball 73 
yards for a CMU touchdowm.
The Tartans, undefeated at 4-0, had their 
toughest fight of the season after giving up 
just 6.6 points per game in their first three 
games. Head Coach Chuck Klausing was 
prepared for a fight. “We knew we would 
have trouble holding down their offense. 
They have one of the best quarterbacks, the 
best receivers, and one of the shiftiest runn­
ing backs.”
Though CMU seldom got near quarter­
back Devorsky, it was more Devorsky’s fault 
than the CMU defense. Hiram’s offense let 
Devorsky drop back just two or three steps 
before releasing the football. CMU defen­
sive tackle Ken Harris said, “That’s the first
time I’ve ever seen a quarterback looking 
downfield on his first step back.”
Both teams started their second string 
quarterbacks. Devorsky injured his shoulder 
in last week’s Hiram win over Grove City, and 
was originally replaced by junior J.C. 
Keleman, who played just two series. CMU’s 
Mike Hensel had an injured ankle that caus­
ed him to miss some practice this past week, 
so Klausing decided to go with senior Joe 
Mollica. Hensel replaced Mollica to start 
the second half. “Originally we had plann­
ed to alternate quarters, but Joe was doing 
well, so we waited until halftime,” said 
Klausing.
Hiram Head Coach Don Charlton was 
visibly upset at losing to a tough Tartan 
team. “Very tough game,” said Charlton. 
“Defensively they are just too physical.” 
Hiram’s offensive line could not match up 
the size and strength of CMU’s defensive 
line and their scores. The kids we have are 
improving every week. It was close,” said 
Charlton.
Fullback Vic Boland had 107 yards on 30 
carries for three touchdowns for the Tartans. 
He looked battered after the game, noting 
that he had been “hit hard.” Boland is run­
ning in the workhorse fashion that everyone 
has expected from him since he came to 
CMU four years ago. If Klausing uses him 
as often as he did Saturday for the rest of 
the season, Boland could wind up with over
700 yards.
Devorsky, who completed 18 of 32 passes 
for 235 yards and one touchdown, has just 
one problem: interceptions. After just three 
games he has thrown eight interceptions. 
Along with Bobby Starks, who had 76 yards
photo by Andy Gillespie
The Tartans set down on the line of scrimmage.
photo by Andy Gillespie
*42 Robert Arthur streches for a pass from quarterback Joe Mollica.
Victor Boland rushed for a total of 107 yards.photo by Erik Horn
on 16 carries, Devorsky has given Hiram a 
big play offense, something they haven’t had 
in recent years. “We need to eliminate our 
offensive turnovers,” said Charlton. Two of 
CMU’s touchdowns were set up by intercep­
tions, and Hiram had four turnovers in all. 
CMU had none.
It was not a very well played game by the 
Tartans, who set up Hiram’s second 
touchdown with a 15 yard personal foul on 
a punt, which kept the Terrier drive alive. 
But the Tartans did gain 256 yards rushing, 
and controlled the ball for 37 minutes, com­
pared to Hiram’s 22. The Terrier defense was 
on the field much of the game, and was worn 
down by the Tartan offensive line, led by 255 
pound tackle Rob Butts. Five runners had 
over 30 yards for the Tartans. The Terriers 
have only two backs with over 30 yards for 
the season. Asked if he had tried different 
things on the defense to stop the Tartans, 
Charlton replied, “We tried lots of different 
things, but none of them seemed to work. 
They were just too big for us.”
Hiram got on the board in the second
quarter after spotting CMU a 14-0 lead. 
Starks threw a halfback option pass to Gor­
cica that fooled everyone in the Tartan 
secondary. Gorcica was wide open, and 
Starks lobbed him the ball 15 yards for the 
score.
The loss drops Hiram to 1-2, and 1-1 in 
conference play. CMU remains undefeated 
at 4-0, 2-0 conference. The Tartans travel 
to Thiel College next week, while Hiram 
plays host to John Carroll.
Tartan Tattlers--]oe Orlowski had his third 
interception of the season after Gorcica tip­
ped a Devorsky pass.. .the Tartans had gone 
seven quarters without allowing a score, 
dating back to the second quarter against 
Bucknell...Starks on yard touchdown run 
was the first rushing touchdown against the 
Tartans this season...Chris Haupt injured an 
ankle and may miss next week’s game ver­
sus Thiel...kickoff time is 1:30 and WRCT 
(88.3 FM) will broadcast exclusively...the 
next Tartan home game is Homecoming 
weekend against defending PAC champ 
Washington and Jefferson.
Harriers defeat Grove City
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The CMU Cross-Country team racked up 
their 68th victory with a win against Grove 
City College at a score of 21-39. Grove City 
got the first runner over the finish line while 
CMU took second, third, fourth, and fifth. 
The first Tartan runner to finish was 
freshman Pat Noll with an approximate t Tie 
of 26 minutes and 20 seconds for the five 
mile run. He was followed by sophomores 
Keith Stopen and Kurt Meuse. Next was 
another freshman showing great potential 
Tom Ford.
Head Coach Gary Meckley spoke highly 
of Grove City saying, “They were tough. 
They will be much stronger at the end of the 
year. This was the first team to beat our first 
man over the line. Besides the winner, they 
have a few other good men and the team is
concerned.”
Circumstances were good for the team as 
they had some beautiful weather (“8 out of 
10”) and there were very few injuries and 
illnesses.
Next weekend the team goes up against 
Hiram College and Coach Meckley had 
some views on this. “We are going to go as 
slow as possible and win. the guys need some 
rest. We have had some really tough meets 
lately and they need to calm down. 
Although, Hiram has one or two good guys, 
we should do okay.”
The team is on a great streak right now 
and if things continue the way they look, 
they could push that NCAA record way up 
to a challenging mid-seventies mark. There 
doesn’t seem to be much standing in their 
way at this point.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—October 1,1985
This week's Sports Events
October 1 ______ . S“?**1.
Offensive lineman Rob Butts: Player of the game
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Rob Butts isn’t the type of person you 
would want to meet in a dark alley. At 61” 
and 265 pounds, he casts a big shadow. And 
cast a shadow he did over the Hiram defense, 
as he led the Tartans to a 35-21 victory, 
CMU’s fourth consecutive win.
While Butts didn’t score any touchdowns 
or catch any passes against Hiram, the senior 
offensive tackle played a dominating role. 
He blasted holes in the Terrier’s defensive 
line so the likes of Victor Boland. Mike 
Minjock, Mike Hensel, and Tim Denmeade 
could rack up the 318 offensive yards the 
Tartans needed for the win.
As an offensive tackle, Butts doesn’t get 
much publicity. But his teammates thought 
enough of him to choose him as one of the 
Tartan captains for 1985. The captaincy is 
a position he takes seriously. “I have a 
responsibility to lead. They (the team) 
elected me.” Football hasn’t been easy on 
him. After every game, “they have to keep 
gluing me back together,” grinned Butts.
During the Hiram game, his collection of 
ailments included pulled muscles and a bad­
ly aching heel.
Despite his size, Rob wasn’t always a 
natural for football. “As a kid I was very un­
coordinated.” He also has to work con­
tinuously to stay in shape. “I’m in training 
365 days a year. Some guys can walk into 
camp and be in shape in two weeks. Not me.” 
In fact, his quest to stay in shape has created 
some problems. Whenever Butts tried to do 
squat exercises, the bars he used to lift the 
weights with kept bending and causing the 
weights to slide off the end. Also, whenever 
he lifted, he left everyone else in the room 
without weights to lift, believable for a man 
who can bench press 480 pounds.
What of the future tor Rob Butts? He is 
expecting his degree in Information Systems 
in May and is looking beyond CMU. A possi­
ble pro career? “My first priority is finding 
a job. But if I were to be given the oppor­
tunity to try pro football, I would be there 
in a minute. I don’t want to be in a position 
of saying ‘what if...?’ 20 years from now.
Women’s Field Hockey home game against In­
diana University of Pennsylvania, 4:30 pm.
Women’s Volleyball home game against 
Washington and Jefferson College, 6 pm. 
October 2Soccer away game against Geneva College at
3:30 pm. October 3
Women’s Tennis home game against Duquesne
University at 3 pm.
Women’s \folteyball away game against Seton Hill 
College and Chatham College. Seton Hill College, 
6 pm.
Women's Field Hockey home game against 
Washington and Jefferson College, 4:30 pm. 
October 5Men's and Women's Cross Country away meet 
against Hiram College at 11 am.
Women's Volleyball away game against John Car­
roll at 12 pm.
Women’s Tennis away game against Theil Col­
lege at 1 pm.
Soccer home game against Youngstown State 
University at 1 pm.
Tartan Football away game against Theil Col­
lege at 1:30 pm.
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The formidable CMU soccer team had a 
decisive win over Hiram College with a score 
of 6-0. The first goal was scored by Alan 
Mayr in the opening minute of the game. 
This action and the strong play by the 
defense, kept the momentum going.
Quickly capitalizing on the Tartan’s 
dominace, senior co-captain Tomlinson 
scored goal number two. Alan Mayr, a 
sophomore, scored third followed by Doug 
Anderson and Charlie Lockhead, on a 
penalty kick. This made the score 5-0 at 
half-time.
In the second half, Alan Mayr scored a 
third goal to complete his hat-trick with a
passing assist from the sideline by Kevin 
Jung. Goalie Sam Montague saw limited ac­
tion, but did have two saves.
All the defensive players performed well 
with a highlight on Mark Zoldi for his 
outstanding exhibition. This victory brings 
the booters record up to 4-2.
Their next game is against Geneva Col­
lege. This match, along with their pending 
competition with Bethany, will be one of 
their toughest of the entire season. “We have 
beaten Geneva, a Division II school, twice 
in the last two years and the team is really 
gunning for us. Most of the season rides 
here.” said Mayr. Their last meeting ended 
in 2-1 victory so the pressure will be on.
HIS FIRST YEAR OUT OF COLLEGE. FRANK QUACKENBUSH RENOVATED THREE 
BUILDINGS, WORKED ON A DAM, PAVED A ROAD, 
AND BUILT TWO CHOPPER PADS.
Captain Rob Butts taking a hit on Saturday against Hiram phot° by °lve Peersen
Soccer defeats Hiram 6-0
“Most of the engineers 
I graduated with probably 
wound up as an assistant 
engineer to somebody else. 
Maybe doing the details for 
somebody else’s design or 
supervising some small aspect 
of construction.
“But my first year as 
an Engineer Lt., I’ve designed 
many of my own projects and 
supervised the construction on 
everything from baseball dug' 
outs to the concrete work on 
a dam. Earthmoving, grading, 
filling, paving, concrete work, 
masonry—you name it, I’ve 
supervised it.
“Whether I stay in the 
Army or go into civilian con­
struction work later, I’ve got 
experience that some engineers 
won’t have when they’re 30!
“More than supervising 
construction, I’ve learned how 
to manage people. I’ve got 40 
right now I have to plan for and 
see to in terms of a myriad of 
details of their lives.
“What I learned in 
Army ROTC about leadership 
and management, I’ve put to 
good use.”
Army ROTC got Frank 
Quackenbush off to a good 
start in his field. It can do the 
same for you whether you’re 
a civil engineer or an English 
major. For more information 
on Army ROTC, scholarships 
and the $1,000 a year spending 
money you can earn your last 
two years, stop by the Army 
ROTC office on campus.
And begin your future as 
an officer.
For More Information 
Call 578-2205/2196 
or See
Captain Colvin, MMC-B7
2nd Lt. Frank Quackenbush moored in civil engineer­
ing at the University of Arizona and was a member of 
Army ROTC.ARMY ROTC 
BE ALL YOU CAN BL

---------------------------------------------------

Hey CMU, get involved! 
Scotland Yard needs a slogan
Our new student night club needs a slogan. 
Please submit entries to Skibo Information Desk.
Deadline is Friday October 7.
Name
Address
Phone
Slogan
HHB.. .helping you grow...
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS/COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS:
your
career path???
Let us help you solve the problem...
We’re HHB SOFTRON, leaders within the fields of 
design, evaluation and technology markets, integrating 
leading edge simulation products and systems for the 
worldwide CAE/CAD/CAT segments of the electronics 
industry.
The progressive challenges of our environment are ever­
present. Our engineers stand on the peak of innovation, 
utilizing CADAT, a concurrent fault simulator to design 
software models of electronic circuits. Performances are 
analyzed, thus enabling engineers to shorten develop­
ment time, in bringing new products to the market.
We’re currently seeking creative, resourceful engineers 
possessing a BS, MS or PhD with a Computer Science 
or Electrical Engineer concentration to become part of our 
professional team. As you design hardware, software and 
CAE systems, you’ll also develop computer networking. 
The software technology is written primarily in C language 
for UNIX OS environments with logic thru system level 
design for most CAE projects. With a solid reputation in 
the industry and a committment to growth in people and 
products, HHB SOFTRON offers a dynamic challenge for 
the future. Look for our sign-up recruitment sheet located 
in the Career Placement Office.
• Our recruiting date is October 3 at the Technical Oppor­
tunities Conference Career Fair

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—October 1,1985
STOP SWEAT 
FOR 6 WEEKS
95
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
* Weekend rate available noon 
Thursday through Monday. Cer­
tain daily minimums apply.
Rates will be slightly lower 
for drivers over 25.
H AIK CLUIEl
fSave FÏve Dollars!-] f Save Six Dollars! 1I ————— I
South Craig St. I Present This Coupon And j | Present This Coupon And
Oakland * Receive A { j Receive A COMPLETE
Phone: 621-HAIR i"fllRC“T $10°°j ¡PERM $29»»
Our Fun SwWci • Frosting» • Marwcurcs* Men’s Or Reg. ^ | j 'Includes: Haircut, Price
Sa‘°"0"*~ *Siyw!^ I Women’s Price $ ¦ 0 I | Perm, Blow Dry And Styling $35.*
• Hair Coior J fa— — — — — — — — — — —..........  —J
We feature CM cars 
' like this Chevrolet Chevette
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similar- size car and is subject to change without notice. Specific cars subject to availability.Call for details.
a National Car Rental,
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.®
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667___________
Haircuts *14 to *16
Mon.-Fri. 9 to 9 
5Lewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
Tartan Baseball Club in need of 
field and varsity recognition
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
You’ve seen the CMU baseball team 
around campus. They even have deep red 
tear jackets, just like the football team.
But, unlike football, they don’t have their 
own fields. The baseball Tartans share a 
nondescript diamond at Mellon Park wit! 
high school teams.
While the football team has expensive 
equipment, and extensive coaching, 
baseball players must put up $25 towards 
their own uniforms, and are led by a single 
part-time coach.
Don’t get me wrong, if anything, I think 
football should get more resources. But 
baseball seems to get short shrift in any deci­
sion, primarily due to it’s status as a club 
sport.
Well then, why not make baseball a var­
sity sport? Athletic director Jim Banner 
would love to see it. But there are problems. 
The only feasible place to locate a baseball 
diamond on campus is smack in the middle 
of the Intramural field, an action leading 
to the probable premature demise of IM 
director E.J. Birdy.
Scheduling also poses problems for a 
CMU varsity baseball team. PAC rules would 
limit a squad to a maximum of 14 playing 
dates (28 games), all in the spring. The 
season would be limited, for all practical 
purposes, to the month of April, due to Pitt­
sburgh’s rainy weather and CMU’« early 
graduation. The team would be thus pro­
hibited from it’s traditional Fall season, a 
season that provides much playing time for 
club players.
With these difficulties don’t look for PAC 
baseball at CMU soon.
But don’t ignore the baseball club in its 
present form. With a 3-1 start, this fall they 
have shown they can compete ellectively 
against local college varsity teams. They cer­
tainly deserve better support than the 
minimal attendance at games indicates.
IM Report
An Intramural Cross Country meet will 
be held on Thursday October 3, at 4:30 
p.m. The race is 1.9 miles around Schenley 
Park and all post entrants are welcome. 
Everyone can enter!
The due date for Intramural Bowling, 
Racquetball, and Team Table Tennis sign­
ups is ateo Thursday October 3. Sign up 
sheets can be found on the bulletin board 
outside Room 101 in the gym.
There will be an Intramural Board 
meeting on Thursday October 3, at 12:30 
p.m. in room 101 of the gym. Non-board 
members are welcome with any comments 
or opinions.
Women’s Intramurals
There are intramurals for women, but no 
women for intramurals. There are womens
IM soccer and volleyball teams forming right 
now. Sign up for them on the bulletin board 
outside the IM office.
For further information call Gerri Seidl 
x3306, or Dee Nyzio x4608
DRIONIC® — the heavy 
sweater’s answer to costly 
and embarrassing under­
arm, hand or foot sweat. 
Short treatment with elec­
tronic Drionic keeps these 
areas dry for 6 week 
periods. Recommended by 
dermatologists every­
where. Covered by many 
insurance companies. 
Send for free information. 
Clinical studies available to physicians. ©•«
GENERAL MEDICAL CO.
Dept. KCM-1
1935 Armacost Avenue 
Los Angeles, CA 90025
photo by Cindy Yee
Field Hockey lost to Hiram, at Hiram, 3-0. The Women’s Tennis team defeated 
Hiram 7-2 and the Women’s Volleyball team fell to Thiel 3-2.
WHEELS 
FOR RENT
photo by Andy Gillespiephoto by Cindy Yee
Here's the help you need. 
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu­
dent I.D. and a cash deposit. 
Stop by to fill out a short 
cash qualification form at
least 24-hours in advance. 
You pay for gas used and 
return car to renting loca­
tion. We also accept most 
major credit cards.

---------------------------------------------------

UNHID TECHNOLOGIES 
IS LOOKING FOR ANOTHER DAIMLER.
Daimler didn’t need to invent the wheel. 
Wheels were around already. All he did was 
make the first practical internal combustion en­
gine, put wheels under it, and change the way 
people get from place to place.
United Technologies could use a Daimler or 
two. We need some people who can take what 
we already have — aircraft engines, helicopters, 
air conditioning, elevators, silicon waters, and 
SOOn — and teach them some different tricks.
You have the kind of training we need. If you
also have the kind of inventive vision, persever­
ance, and talent that may someday make you a 
household word, you’re whrt we’re looking for. 
And we’re what you’re looking for. A v >rldwide 
group of companies where 25,000 engineers al­
ready work, and there’s m ling in the entire 
galaxy to limit how tar you can grow.
Find us at the campus placement office. Jr 
write tor more information and a reprint of nis 
ad to United Technologies, P.O. Box 1379, 
Hartford, CT 06143.
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
United fechnoloiiies means Pratt i* Whitney, Hamilton Standar-I, Otis, Carrier,Autor- j ve Grtfup, United Tec hi., oijies Microelectronic-. Center, Norden, Chemical Systems, fcssex, Sikorskv, Mustek and United Tc-chnol- oyies Research (.enter
An equal opportunity empi« iver.

---------------------------------------------------

Elitari^.
Parking shortage is 
a serious problem
Innovation. When changes are made in order 
to upgrade and improve the quality of a product, 
a business, or even a university. Innovation is a 
keyword around here. New buildings are built, 
new research centers are born, all for the good 
of innovation, to make the campus better, newer, 
more capable to reach the standards of educa­
tion and international recognition than ever 
before.
There is nothing wrong with trying to improve 
a university, specifically Carnegie-Mellon, 
through innovative and creative steps. However, 
when present conditions are made worse by such 
changes, something should be done to resolve that 
problem.
The new buildings being raised on and close 
to this campus have caused a serious problem: 
parking. The construction of the Software 
Engineering Institute has shut down the Mellon 
Institute parking lot. If the proposed hotel/con­
ference center goes up behind Morewood 
Gardens, another parking lot will be closed, in 
this case the largest on campus. The Clyde Street 
Apartments were made into campus housing this 
year, without any parking made available to the 
students living there.
Even motorcyclists have been affected. With 
the installation of a Morewood Gardens service 
area, the already minute motorcycle lot became 
a thing of the past. Some unsuspecting riders even 
found their bikes towed, though they were not 
informed that the lot was being converted.
Is anything being done to solve the problem? 
At the SEI, underground parking is being built 
as a long-term solution for the SEI and Mellon 
Institute. If there is a hotel, plans have been 
made to build structural parking of some sort. 
But what of today’s problem? Many of the 
students will not be here when these buildings are 
built. Is anyone doing anything today?
Vice President for Business Affairs Fred Rogers 
seems to be trying. Rogers said at a Student 
Senate meeting two weeks ago that 500 new 
spaces would open up with the recent purchase 
of the U.S. Bureau of Mines complex. Yet he was 
attributed with saying that only 200 spaces were 
actually opening in the complex. This does not 
take care of the number lost at Mellon Institute, 
but which number is correct?
Perhaps the first is just an incorrect estimate. 
Even so, when making an acquisition of such size 
as buying the Bureau of Mines, shouldn’t 
Carnegie-Mellon know exactly how many park­
ing spaces are becoming available, seeing how 
large the problem is already on campus?
The parking problem is not being taken 
seriously enough. Structural parking, whether 
underground or above, should be built, and 
should be built soon. And before any other 
buildings are built, a plan should be made 
beforehand regarding parking spaces lost during 
construction. Perhaps spaces could be made in 
the area between Doherty Apartments and Devon 
Road, or the area between Mudge House and 
Morewood Gardens. Hopefully, these beautiful 
spots could be left alone, but in reality, it is space 
needed for other things.
More concessions should be made for the stu­
dent parking. Every year, getting a space is more 
and more difficult. The school’s enrollment grows 
every year, while the number of available spaces 
dwindles.
This is not a problem that will fade away. Steps 
should be taken to alleviate it, and quickly.
g$3 5,0forHu 
SrJodT 5nNdck
Ill:::::::::::::
\\ ct>u Hi
Is protected market fair?
by Karen Lee
Are the unregulated 
monopolies such as the bookstore, 
art store and physical plant fair to 
students and faculty? This was a 
question posed by last year’s stu­
dent government 
I President Bill McCor­
mick. Since it has not 
§f been fully addressed, I 
have formed a committee to con­
tinue the study.
I use the term “unregulated 
monopolies” because they operate 
in a “protected” market which has 
no “consumer board” to control 
prices. Now, according to the ad­
ministration, these entities are to 
be run with the intent of break­
ing even.
Don’t misunderstand me. I’m 
not accusing these CMU services 
of not breaking even or running 
inefficiently. I am just continual­
ly wondering why I pay over $200 
for books and supplies each 
semester? Why art students buy 
their supplies in Pittsburgh or 
even in Georgetown?
This committee will hopefully 
answer these questions. The goals 
for this committee are the same as 
those set forth by McCormick:
1)To determine the channels 
through which CMU are 
managed.
2)To determine if and how 
money is transferred between 
CMU services and the university.
3)Tb compare CMU services
and similar services in the outside 
world.
4)To analyze the operations of 
the services and make suggestions 
if needed.
5)To inform the campus of its 
findings.
Before I end, I must reiterate 
that the main focus will be asking 
the question why? This commit­
tee will meet regularly. If you 
have any suggestions or com­
ments, please see me during my 
office hours as follows:
Monday, Wednesday 6-7 
Tuesday 1:30-2:30 
Thursday 12:30-1:30 
Or you cart leave a message ^in 
my box at the Skibo Information 
Desk.
Correction
We apologize to both Vice President 
Crecine and President Cyert. Last week, The 
Tartan highlighted a quote from Dr. 
Crecine’s article that read “ .. the conference 
center and SEI were important fulfillments 
of Pres. Cyert’s ego needs. . .there are a lot 
easier ways to satisfy egos, even those as 
modestly-sized as Dick Cyert’s,” This twisted 
Crecine’s original meaning. The quote in the 
article read, “One editorial and a few let­
ters suggest that the coinference center and 
SEI were important fulfillments of Pres. 
Cyert’s ego needs. I can assure you that there 
are a lot of easier ways to satisfy egos, even 
those as modestly sized as Dick Cyert’s, than 
putting up buildings.”
Obviously, we made an error, and we 
apologize for any embarassment we may 
have caused.
—Ed.

---------------------------------------------------

October 1,1985-The Tartan-Page 25
Shampoo bottles?
CMU writers' portfolios missing something
by Karen Gray
In the CMU undergraduate catalog, The 
Tartan is referred to as one resource by which 
the Professional Writing program is enrich­
ed. As a Tartan staffer, I find this laughable.
Most Professional Writing 
majors don’t come anywhere 
near the The Tartan. In fact, 
Mf our Entertainment editor is a 
Math major.
I originally came to The Tartan with high 
hopes of recruiting Professional Writing 
majors to the paper. The biggest problem 
with The Tartan, I reasoned, was that the 
people at this school who ostensibly are be­
ing taught to write don’t care to submit their 
pieces to a paper they consider to be substan­
dard. While I don’t refute the argument 
that it is disheartening to find one’s byline 
misspelled, the general unwillingness of Pro­
fessional Writing majors to help improve the 
situation reflects poorly on their roles as 
writers in our campus community.
To the department itself, The Tartan is an 
unsavory reminder that the Professional 
Writing students are not emerging from 
their classrooms with the kind of motivation 
necessary to produce a quality student 
publication.
So what are all these writing students do­
ing? Surely they must be doing something— 
they cannot be so unrealistic to think that 
a writer without a portfolio has more than 
a vending machine’s chance of working. The 
very title of the major implies that Profes­
sional Writers are supposed to think about 
writing in a more marketable manner than 
would a straight “English” major. Just where 
are they getting their experience?
I found out that they are writing for 
Focus, Carnegie-Mellon Magazine, , and 
other more reputable, non-student campus 
publications. The department has encourag­
ed its majors to take this route. I have heard 
several professors actually defend writers’ 
apathy for The Tartan saying that they’re 
busy writng for “other things.” They don’t
need us and our pizza ads. They’ve got Andy 
Warhol’s interpretation of Andrew Carnegie 
on glossy paper.
I can see the advantages of life inside these 
“other things.” If one writes a good piece, an 
influential group of readers (i.e., faculty, ad­
ministration, recruiters) will be more likely 
to see it. But is this the group of readers a 
student writer should care about influenc­
ing? I argue that a writng student who 
chooses to disregard the student publica­
tion compromises his or her own develop­
ment as a writer and insults the potential 
strength of an informed student body.
For all its syntactical errors, The Tartan 
may be the CMU writing major’s last chance 
to experiment and yes, screw up occasional­
ly. What is wrong with that? By refusing to 
do that, student writers render themselves 
impotent. They will learn the mechanics of 
writing anything, but will they ever do any 
serious thinking about what is what they 
want to say? I say that such introspection is
best fostered in the atmosphere of a student 
puiblication.
Of course, I may be making several wrong 
assumptions about the nature of the Profes­
sional Writing program. It’s always nice to 
have a job when you graduate, and who am 
I to sneer at a job writing manuals for 
Kodak? But should we not aspire to 
something more? Shouldn’t an education 
provide more than a (admittedly lucrative) 
career writing copy for the backs of sham­
poo bottles?
Student writers would do well to overcome 
some of their squeamishness of The Tartan 
and contribute. Presently they are short­
changing themselves of the opportunity for 
regular publication and feedback, and their 
misdirected talents have created a vacuum 
which keeps The Tartan from being the kind 
of paper a student body such as ours could 
produce.
Karen Gray is a junior majoring in creative 
writing and is News Editor of The Tartan.
Greek rush is over, but keep this in mind
by Steven Katz
One Friday night, I spotted a drunken 
freshman swaying back and forth as he sat 
on the brick wall in front of my frat house. 
All of a sudden, he gave a kick and fell over 
backwards, landing head first on 
the ground, “Ouch! That stupid 
1 freshman just kicked me in the 
"¦ V’-., back!” cried a girl who had been 
standing nearby. “Throw that jerk out of 
here!” cried someone else. The freshman lay 
on the ground, motionless. He put his hands 
behind his head and moaned. Then he 
laughed. Then, with a final burst of energy, 
he jumped up and ran behind my fraterni­
ty. I hesitantly followed him. Two minutes 
later, I found him face down in a puddle of 
vomit. “Another drunken freshman passes 
out at Pi Lambda Phi fraternity,” I thought.
Freshmen seem to think that the 
drunker, louder, and more obnoxious that 
they behave at any given fraternity, the bet­
ter an impression they make upon the 
brothers of that fraternity. But drunkenness 
proves nothing. And the more you drink, the 
worse you behave. Stop and think a moment, 
freshmen; just who is it that you are trying 
so very had to impress? And why are you try­
ing to impress them?
The fact is that most freshmen cannot tell 
I the difference between any two fraternities 
i on Carnegie-Mellon’s campus. They are all 
I just places that have parties, and serve beer 
and liquor every weekend. They’re fun. But 
! “because it’s fun” is no reason to blindly at- 
I tach yourself to any random fraternity. You 
C have to think of the individuals that make
I up that fraternity and their attitude towards 
j® newcomers and drinking.
There is no doubt that most freshman 
¦have, by now, heard of the infamous inci- 
Ident at Zeta Beta Tau fraternity two years 
lago where the brothers decided to see if 
»anyone could break the standing whiskey 
»hot record of 28. Don’t be fooled into think­
ing that this happend because the Zebes are 
ft bunch of sadists who want to get freshmen 
Bitterly smashed beyond belief. It could have 
¦happened at any fraternity. Fraternities are 
Bangerous places because alcohol flows like 
•^ater at parties. I’ve never met anyone who, 
when they’re sober, would set out to drink 
¦8 shots of whiskey. However, I know many 
Beople who, when they’re drunk, think they 
c in fly. People get drunk to the point of be- 
phg out of control and doing crazy things at 
a l fraternities. ZBT is not the only place 
§**here freshmen can get alcohol poisoning.
It can happen anywhere that people drink 
too much. It could happen to you.
If I had made fraternities sound 
dangerous and irresponsible, it is to prove 
that a fraternity involves more than just fun 
and games. Many fraternities have a lot to 
offer. Some fraternities do excellent 
philanthropic work. Others constitute close­
ly knit social groups where the brother are 
all good friends. Some fraternities compete
place. When awoke on Sunday night at 8:00 
p.m., I found myself covered with bruises.
2. Visit as many fraternities as you can. 
Don’t think, “If you’ve seen one frat party, 
you’ve seen them all.” Each fraternity is com­
posed of different types of people. Some frats 
orient themselves towards athletics. Some 
orient themselves towards scholarship. 
Others emphasize partying and drinking. 
Each fraternity takes a different stance on
“Each fraternity has something uni­
que to offer. If a freshman wants to 
join one, he must find the one where 
he belongs
-
vigorously in intramural activities or en­
courage scholarship. Each fraternity has 
something unique to offer. And if a 
freshman wants to join one, he must find the 
one where he belongs.
If you are interested in a fraternity, here 
are some points to keep in mind:
1. Never go to any frat party alone —go with 
a group of friends. Having a group of friends 
with you can counteract any sort of peer 
pressure which a party situation might ex­
ert. Also, if you should get too drunk, your 
friends will walk, or if necessary, carry you 
home. Friends look out for each other. Don’t 
count on a stranger to help you.
When I was a freshman in my first 
semester at CMU, I did not know the dif­
ference between any two fraternities. One 
Saturday night, I went to one house alone at 
about eleven o’clock. The brothers kept of­
fering me beer, and I drank as much as they 
offered. A few hours later, I could not sit in 
a chair without falling out. Someone walk­
ed up to me, “Say, you’ve had a lot to drink.” 
“You’re damn right!” I blurted out with 
pride. “ That’s cool. Beer is great. Would you 
like to take a tour of our house?” “Sure, ” I 
replied, not realizing that it was four o’clock 
in the morning. He led me down a long 
hallway, and I stumbled after him. He open­
ed up a door, “This is our back door. Get 
out!” I was surprised. “Get out and don’t 
come back, ” he said. On my way out, he 
tripped me and I fell onto the sidewalk, 
receiving a large scrape on my arm. I 
stumbled my way back to Hamerschlag 
dormitory, tripping and falling all over the
what brotherhood ought to be. It is up to 
you to discover what each frat values in an 
individual — they’re all different.
3. Never let anyone push you into doing 
something that you do not want to do. 
Sometimes a brother will hand you a beer 
and tell you to chug. Other people standing 
around you might start yelling, “Chug! 
Chug! Chug!” If you don’t want to drink it, 
don’t. Only you should be able to control 
what you do. Furthermore, anyone who is 
genuinely interested in being your friend will 
not try to force you to drink alcohol. If a 
fraternity brother’s main interest in you 
seems to be getting you drunk, then he’s not 
your friend.
4. Once you have found a fraternity which 
you like, visit it during the week when they’re
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
not having a party. People act differently at 
parties than they do in normal everyday 
situations. To really get to know the brothers 
of a fraternity, you must talk to them when 
they are not at a party. Never judge a frater­
nity solely by the quality of its parties.
5. If you should receive a bid from a 
fraternity, it means that they like you and 
want you to pledge. A pledgeship is a trial 
period in which you can really get to know 
the fraternity, and in which the fraternity 
can really get to know you. You will discover 
the real fraternity as a pledge.
Hazing is abuse of pledges. Different peo­
ple have different ideas on what constitutes 
abuse. I define abuse as anything that a per­
son does to you that is degrading and 
humiliating, not to mention physically pain­
ful. You must be insane if you allow anybody 
to abuse you. And if anybody should ever 
try, you can always leave a fraternity.
The right fraternity can be a place whert 
you have a good time and a lot of friends. 
The wrong fraternity can be a nightmare.
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief ...Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor...........Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor..........................Karen Gray
Features Editor ....Christy Casamassima
Entertainment Editor ................Al Datri
Sports Editor ............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor ..............Michele Keane
Art Manager.................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager ......................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager-----Kathie Sitter
Asst. Art Manager..........Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright © 1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. 24 hour phone, 
(412)578-2111. Mailing address: Skibo 103, 
Student Activities, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Finies.Page 26—The Tartan—October 1,1985
by Nabil Liumang
L've been living on 
boUom bunk ,so 
s^3Lj on top , ci yow. 
rvurxcL __________
r you could 
ta Ihe. ce lit
'Anel rmer^ber that your 
ID <s onlvj \r\je. connect b¦cAwccn you and ClAU *00
irvj loo\c rya^urcA «oWay"7 y
Murray The Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
h0hhEC Tnk
$3,I27 BEEN1M 
RCiôM A LOT
2 an:Ham.
BeA -C 2W 2 $2L:e*m1 
lU U2gt pe W 1
SPENT ALOTTA I 
TIME- IN HERE. 1 
WHV DO YOU 
A5K ?
JM
ICONtîRT
OH,JU5T 
¦CHECKING
BLOOM COUNTYby Berke Breathed
FRE!7%%' (¿une f&vexs, mcm>euoN -mwe 
G7F!oh me . . . ONt wi we
wm EFw LerrTm
56A50N.
Student Dormitory Council

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Classifieds
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circularsl No 
quotas! Sincerely interested, rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, PO Box 470 CEG,
Woodstock, IL 60098.
Sq. Hill,2-3 BR. 5 min. walk to campus, lg. 
modern, w/w, laund., secure, bright, optional 
lease, avail, immed., |495—$595. 363—3560.
Plants & Flowers for sale.Desk plants $7.50. Bou­
quets $3—5.00... all FRESH...Alex’s Flowers. 
Corner of Craig/Bayard.(across from Gulf
Station.)
Earn up to $2,000 in your spare time teaching 
KNITTING! For more information cadi collect 
617-266-7383.
Events
Tuesday
Movies
Amarcord, starring Magali Noel, 
Bruno Zanin. Funny Italian film about a group 
of adolescents growing up during the war years. 
Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:45 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Recreation
Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundred- 
year-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3:30 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. Tonight’s guest is E.J. 
Birdy, director of Intramural Athletics. 8:30 pm 
to 9 pm.
Fiction & Poetry
The Tuesday Night Readings. Julie. McCollister 
reads poetry. Lynne Barrett reads fiction. The 
Back Room, Hemingway’s Cafe, Forbes Ave, 
Oakland, 8:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
Wednesday
Movies
The Seventh Seal and Wild Straw­
berries. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
Music
Fine Arts Brass Quintet, with Bernard Black, 
Denis Colwell at trumpets: David Piecka at 
French horn; Glenn Wayland at trombone and 
David Knapp at tuba. Alumni Concert Hall, 8 
pm.
Recreation
^La Table Française, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
CMU Law Club, organizational meeting. For 
more information call George at x4386. Skibo 12, 
I 7 pm.
Authorized Designers For Alandel, International 
(ADAI) offers a unique design team trained in 
the Total Fashion Concept incorporating 
HIGH TECH hair design, make-up, anrt 
clothing coordination to body and bone struc­
tures. MON., TUES., WED., & SATS WALK- 
INS ONLY $15.00 includes shampoo, cut, style, 
makeup, & bone structure analysis for men and 
women. 1st come 1st serve. Appointments 
available at regular prices with the designer of 
your choice. Mon.—Fri. 10—6, Sat. 10—3. ADAI 
Productions 930 Penn. Ave. downtown 
Pittsburgh.
Please send resumes to CLA Director, Southwest 
Communities MH/MR Centers, 2129 Broadway 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15216.
512K Upgrade for Macintosh only $250. In­
cludes 1 year warranty. Call 392-6104
Lectures
Minimalism in Retrospect, by Phyllis Tuchman, 
art historian and critic. Carnegie Institute 
Museum of Art, 7:30 pm. Admission $3.
A Philosophical Attack on Scientific Crea- 
tionism by Dan Hausman. Presented by the CMU 
Philosophy Club. Baker Hall 131, 7:15 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
What It’s Like to Work for a Big Company,
presented by Dr. John Wesner of AT&T. Sponsored 
by CMU-ASME. Margaret Morrison Supa 
Lounge, 4:30 pm.
Thursday
Movies
Return of the Secaucus 7, star­
ring Bruce MacDonald, Maggie Renzie. Funny 
film of friends from the ’60s who get together for 
a reunion. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Maltese Falcon, Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater, by Christopher 
Durang. A humurous look at parenthood. City 
Theater Company, South Bouquet St. in 
Oakland, 8 pm. For more information call 
624-4101.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Your second chance to discover 
this four hundred year old Chinese exercise for 
health and fitness. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 pm. Free 
for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Investment Club. Learn how to invest and 
manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
CMU Explorer’s Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 11, 8 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Lectures
Technical Opportunities Conference. A con­
ference where students from all academic 
disciplines are invited to come and talk freely and 
informally with company representatives. Skibo 
Ball Room, all day.
Babysitter avail. 30 hrs. max excepting days: 
Tu. Th. Sat. 682-1125 before 8 pm.
Resident Manager: Responsible person to work 
in a supervised apartment program with mentally 
retarted adults. Overnight hours, Sunday — 
Thursday, 9:00 P.M. — 9:00 A.M.; typical sleep 
hours, midnight — 6:00 A.M. Hourly wage plus 
a room.
Carnegie—Men 1986 Campus Calendar 
Contest—Submit a photograph entry before Oc­
tober 7, 1985 to Skibo Rm. 58. Twelve lucky 
Carnegie — Men winners will be photographed to 
appear in the 1986 Campus Calendar. Include 
on back of photograph: Name, Year and 
telephone number. Personal Interviews will take 
place in October.
Friday
Movies
The Big Chill, starring William 
Hurt, Jeff Goldblum, Glenn Close. Interesting 
film about 1960’s friends who get together in the 
1980’s to figure out their lives. Rated R. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
A Soldier’s Story. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 
pm, 12 pm. Admission $1.
The Music Lovers, starring Richard 
Chamberlain, Glenda Jackson, Max Adrian, 
Christopher Gable. A wild and tragic film of the 
twisted life of Tchaikovsky and his music. Pitts- 
sburgh Filmmakers, The Media Arts Center, 205 
Oakland Ave, 8 pm, 10:15 pm.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Octo­
ber 3 for details.
Saturday
Movies
The Killing Fields, starring Sam 
Waterson, Haing S. Ngor. An Oscar winning film 
about friendship between an American cor­
respondent and his Cambodian assistant. Rated 
R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10 pm. Ad­
mission $2.95.
The Wall (Pink Floyd). Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8 
pm, 10 pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
The M»«c Lovers. See Friday for information.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Octo­
ber 3 for more information.
Music
Scottish and Irish Music with Stewarts of Blair 
and Irish musicians Kevin Burke and Gerry 
O’Beime. Frick Fine Arts Auditorium, University 
of Pittsburgh, 8 pm. Admission $7 at door, $6 
in advance at Kaufmann’s, Calliope House, Irish 
Design Center, and Pitt and CMU ticket offices.
Sunday
Movies
Doctor Zhivago, starring Omar 
Sharif, Julie Christie, Rod Steiger, Alec Guiness. 
An adaptation of Boris Pasterbak’s novel about 
the Russian Revolution. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Relief Resident Advisor: Part—time staff need­
ed immediately to work in a supervised apartment 
program with mentally retarded adults. All shifts. 
South Hills area. Hourly rate $4.00.
Vinyl padded chairs with arms $5. Lounge fur­
niture with black metal legs and walnut trim — 
single chair $20, two cushion sofa $30, three 
cushion sofa $50. Contact the Placement Office, 
Warner Hall, Room 19. x2064
Private Violin instructionAvailable from C-MU 
Masters student. BFA’84. Reasonable rates. Flex­
ible scheduling. For more information call C.
Grove 683-3658.
Wanted-student/s to share cost of student 
subscription to Pittsburgh Symphony 1985 — 86 
Senes. Call Shari before Oct. 1 — 682 — 5945.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater See Thursday, October 
3 for more information. Show times are now 2 pm 
and 7 pm.
Recreation
Antiques and Collectibles Fair Relocated: The
Citiparks 1985 Antiques and Collectibles Fair has 
been relocated to the grounds of the Fire and 
Police Academy on Washington Blvd, 8 am to 4 
pm. For more information call 322-0443.
Monday
Movies
The Tree of Wooden Clogs. A 
Cannes Film Festival Grand Prize winner about 
farmers in Northern Italy. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Crimes of the Heart, by Beth Henley. Presented 
by the Drama Department’s Junior Repertory 
Studio Theater, 4:30 pm, 8 pm.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Camegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com­
puter mail to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi­
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The T art an is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other­
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
Poindexter
HUPÉV ur ( ¦£
To Tue
fyhlAfZOOto !
J0?T \WAJr A '
I VI toCm­pue pgAOV R*Z-
by Don Beyer
fweu-...^ THiviw-?
7 (V>y i »b'J'sQ
MATCH MUCH iVr I ' 
yj

---------------------------------------------------

CAR N EG IE- 
MEN
1986 
campus calendar
see classified ads for details
City ____________________State __________Zip
College (if student) __________________________
Mail to: WHS, I07 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Who says the 
Pittsburgh Symphony 
is beyond your reach?
Women’s 
Health Services.
HOMECOMING
IN BAKER HALL
Imagine, for less than the price of a movie, you can escape from the
daily school routine, and spend your Sunday Afternoons with us.
1985-86 Student Series
Oct. 13 Michael Lankester conduas Mozart, Kolb, Debussy, and 
Janacek; with Guest Artist Jeffrey Siegal, piano
Oct. 20 Rudolph Barshai conducts Tchaikovsky and Shostakovich; 
with Guest Artist Ivo Pogorelich, piano
Nov. 24 Yoshima Takeda conducts Copland, Elgar, and
Rachmaninov; with Guest Artist Jorge Bolet, piano
Dec. 1 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven and Prokofiev; with 
Guest Artist Alexis Weissenberg, piano
Jan. 26 Herbert Blomstedt conducts Weber, Bartók, and Brahms; 
with Guest Artist Malcolm Frager, piano
Mar. 2 Jean-Pierre Rampal will conduct and Perform Rossini, Bach, 
Mozart, and Beethoven
Mar. 30 Christoph Eschenbach will conduct and Perform Mozart 
and Brahms
Apr. 13 Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos conducts Dvorak and 
Rimsky-Korsakov
ALL CONCERTS ARE ON SUNDAYS, AT 2:30To order call: 392-4821
The Pittsburgh Symphony. Bringing __________ 
the best to the Students of Pittsburgh. ALTOFRAE
• FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
Oakland—Rm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave. 
Downtown—3rd floor, 107 6th St.
• ABORTION SERVICES
• BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name
Get your entry blank with any purchase of a COLLEGE 
HOUSE item.
In case of a tie the person selecting the closest actual 
score of the game will win.
•emu focckstcre-
Guess the total number of points in the CMU-W&J 
Homecoming Game and win any garment from the 
THE COLLEGE HOUSE absolutely FREE.
Now, with our Special Student Subscription, you can enjoy 8 Sunday Afternoon Concerts for only S28.
Students, we've chosen a series just for you, designed to bring you 
the best of the Pittsburgh Symphony at one low price, at a time 
that's right for you. For only S3.50 a concert, you can thrill to the 
works of Mozart, Tchaikovsky, and Beethoven in the elegant 
setting of Heinz Hall.
Take a look at the programs. All have been chosen with your 
schedule in mind: evenly distributed (four concerts this semester, 
four concerts next semester), and designed to accommodate your 
finals schedule.
