; j(The d
VOL. 27, No. 7raruegic STartau
C A RNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUES]
Men must be at liberty to 
say in priut whatever they 
bave a rnind to say, pro- 
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
DAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1932
felitary Ball To Take 
Place in Thistle Hall 
Thursday Night, 10-2
New Rushing Rules Offer 
Simple Plan Of Operation
Contacting Period Begins Wednesday Afternoon, 
November 30, At 4:20; No Rushing Can 
Be Done During Contacting Period
Welfare Drive Will 
Begin Tomorrow; No 
Official Quota Set
Paradise Harbour Band 
Of Webster Hall To 
Furnish Music
ADMISSION WILL BE 
$2.50 PER COUPLE
Girl Honorary Cadets Will 
Be Awarded Insignia; 
Blade To Call Men
By DUDLEY D. PENDLETON
The annual Military Ball, first 
formal of the year, will be held_in 
Thistle Hall, Thursday evening, 
from ten o’clock until two. The 
Paradise Harbour Orchestra, 
'which, has been drawing large 
crowds' at Webster Hall, will 
furnish the music. Tickets are 
priced $2.50 per couple and al­
though the ball is strictly, formal, uniforms may be worn.An important part of the even­ing’s festlVities will be. the com­missioning of the Honorary Cadets and the calling of new men to Scabbard and Blade. The follow­ing girls have been named lionor- .ary officers by tlie junior and . senior members of the R. O. T. C.:\ Ruth E. Nye, ’33, colonel; Rebec­ca E. Linn, ’33, 1st Battalion major; Gloria A. Kloos, ’33, 2nd Battalion major; Katherine L. Jes- : sop, ’33, captain Company C; Marion C. McNary, ’33, captain • company D; Jean I. Douglas, ’33, captain Company E; and Mary Evelyn Gamble, ’33, captain Com­pany F. As is customary, the Pup­
pet will nominate one of these cadets to College Humor’s Col- ’legiate Hall of Fame.The chaperones will be Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Dean Arthur W. Tarbell, Dean Mary W. Green, Col. .•and Mrs. George E. A. Fairley, Prof. and Mrs. William R. Work, Capt. and Mrs. A. S. Ackerman, Lt. •and Mrs. John V. Tower, Lt. and :Mrs. A. II. Burton, and Mr. and 
Mrs. Willard N. James. Officers •oil the regular army who are sta­tioned in the vicinity of Pittsburgh will be guests.
• 'TThistfle Iiall will be decorated in military colors and unusual light­ing effects will be used. At the eiid of the hall will be the company giiidons, while several Scabbard, and Blade emblems will be placed along the walls. Tables and cards will be placed in the foyer for the entertainment of chaperones and guests.
The committee in charge of this gala affair consists of: Lawrence F. Dickson, chairman; William C. Lazarus, docorations; Donald M. 
McClain, refreshments; and Wil­liam II. Council, publicity manager.
Students In Art 
School Receive 
Carnegie Medals
Two Carnegie students, Charles S. Frost ’30, and Annette Brenue- man ’33, both of the College of Fine Arts, have been awarded Car­negie Hero Medals in recognition of heroic performances.Mr. Frost of Richmond, Vir­ginia, received the award in May, 1931, for an extraordinary display 
of bravery the previous year. He attempted to save a distressed swimmer, A. Stanley Kratz, from 
the Severn river, near Yorktown, Virginia. Although the swimmer died of heart attack upon reaching j shore, Mr. Frost’s atempt was be­lieved worthy of recognition. Mr. 
Frost, a member of Sigma Nu so­cial fraternity, transferred this year from William and Mary Col­lege.
-Miss Brenneman of Factoryville, Pennsylvania, was awarded the medal in April, .1932, for the rescue of Frank De Meclc from drowning 
in Lake Sheridan, Pennsylvania. An award of $1,600, to be used for 
educational purposes, accompanied the medal. Miss Brenneman is a transfer student from Mansfield State Normal School, and is a jun­
ior in the Department of Painting and Decorating.
Change Date of Glee 
Club Dance To Nov. 18
The date for the annual informal fall dance sponsored by the com­
bined Carnegie Men’s and Women’s Glee Clubs in Thistle Hall has ¦been changed from October 2S, as originally scheduled on the social calendar, to November IS. Tlie committee in charge arranged this change in order to hold the dance the evening preceding the Carne- gie-Pil.t game.
This dance is the fiyst of two dances planned by the combined Glee Clubs for (he coming year. The second will be held in the spring on the night of the organ­izations’ home concert.The committee in charge of ar­rangements includes Henrietta L. Warner, -women’s chairman; Eliza­beth Davies, Gertrude E. Landis, Virginia M. Whaley, Hilda Eilers, Wilfred R. Uffelman, men’s chair- in; Anthony F. -Np.ce, William. L. egman, and John M. Harvey.
Howard Heinz 
To Tell About 
City Planning
Twenty-Fourth National 
Conference Held At 
Schenley Hotel
The Twenty-fourth National Con­
ference on City Planning, of which 
Carnegie is one of the sponsors, 
will be held at the Schenley Hotel 
on November 14, 15, and 16.
The welcoming address will be 
made by Howard Heinz, Chairman 
of the Executive Committee, sub­
committee of the Citizens’ Commit­
tee on City Planning of Pittsburgh. 
A keynote speaker will show the 
timeliness of local and regional 
.planning and challenge municipal 
economies which have crippled 
planning 'programs. Prof. Thomas 
Adams, Research Professor of City 
Planning at Harvard University, 
will present a discussion on “Com­munity Life Fifty Years From 
Now.’ Professor Adams is a man of wide experience and reputation 
in the planning field in Canada, England and the United States. For a time he directed the Region­
al plan of New York with which he is still associated. 1-Ie is a spe­cial lecturer at Harvard University and the author of a valuable vol­ume on city planning which was published recently.Other important discussions 
will include: “A Program toPrevent Economic Disintegration in American Cities,” “Making Planning More Effective,” “Prob­lems of Housing Administration,” and “How Planning Affects Taxes 
and Taxes Affect Planning.” Two films entitled “Parks of the Nation­al Capitol” and “The Future Park System for Washington and its Environs” will be shown at din­ner^ Tuesday evening. Inspection will consist of a visit to the signifi­cant planning accomplishments of Pittsburgh, stopping first at Cha­tham Village, the recent hillside housing development of the Buhl Foundation and a special trip to Cleveland to inspect the new 
frameless steel house which prom­ises to revolutionize home build­ing construction.The public is invited to attend all sessions and students especial­ly are urged to attend. Students may obtain programs at Dr. Jew­ett’s office in tlie College of In­dus tries.
Guild Drive Aids 
Needy Families
The Women’s Guild, Carnegie 
philanthropic organization, lias ap­
portioned the proceeds earned in 
its recent drive among three large 
Pittsburgh charitable organiza­
tions, The Family Welfare Asso­ciation, the Jewish Family Wel­fare Association, and the Associa­tion for the Improvement of the Poor.
The Guild has requested that tlie money be spent for shoes and blankets for needy families. The welfare organizations have agreed to submit to the Guild Board de­tailed reports of the expenditures.Plans have been made for the collection of food and old clothes at regular intervals during the winter. Boxes will be placed in the halls of Margaret Morrison and the College of Fine Ailts, where bundles of old clothes and canned goods may be placed. Members of the Guild Board will distribute the donations to needy families.Anyone who knows of a poor and needy family which is not al­ready being cared for by a welfare organization should communicate with Dorothy Schultz, president of the Guild.
Y.W.C.A., Y.M.C.A. 
Plan Joint Dinner
The V. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A. 
have planned a joint dinner meet­ing for Wednesday, November 16. 
Mr. George Irving, National Y. M. 
C. A. secretary, will be the chief speaker at the meeting. These or­
ganizations hold two or three joint meetings a year, and a prominent religious leader of- the city leads the open discussion at each meet­ing. Heads of both associations 
urge tlie attendance of members of both organizations.The Y. M. C. A. is planning a 
Thanksgiving dinner and entertain­ment for out-of-town students. This dinner is an annual affair, arranged for students remaining on the campus over the holiday. The “Y” also endeavors to secure invi­
tations to private homes for these students. Last year the dinner 
was held at the Inn on Thanksgiv­ing Day. This year, however, no 
announcement has yet been made as to where the dinner will be held.
Alumni Will 
Gather For 
Home-Coming
Luncheon To Be Given 
By Dr. Baker; Tea 
By Dean Green
ALUMNI REGISTER IN 
THISTLE HALL 11 A.M.
Drama Department To Give 
Play; Informal Dinner- 
Dance On Program
Carnegie Alumni will hold their 
sixth annual home‘-6oming on Fri­
day and Saturday, November 18 
and 19, the week-end .of the Car­negie - University of Pittsburgh football game. This date marks the regular five-year reunions for the classes of 1912, 1917, 1922, and 1927, and the first reunion for tlie class of 1932. All Carnegie alumni are invited.The following program has been arranged for tlie first day of the home-coming: registration at 11 a. in. in Thistle Hall; Dr. Baker’s lunclieor for members of the class of 1912 and their husbands and wives in the President’s Office; luncheon for all other returning alumni in the Carnegie Inn at 12:45; presentation of reunion class plates and Dr. Baker’s offi­cial welcome to Alumni in the main corridor of Administration hall at 2:00; reception by mem­bers of administration and faculty from 2:30 to 4 p. m.; Dean Green’s Alumnae Tea in the Women’s Club Room, Gymnasium Building, at 4; and a play presented by tlie De­partment of Drama in the Little Theater at 8:15.Saturday morning has been left open for special reunion parties. At 2 p. m. the Alumni will attend the football game in the Stadium. An informal cabaret dinner-dance lias been planned for 7 p. m. in the Ball Room of the Hotel Schen- ley.Tickets for all home-coming events may be secured at the Alumni Office.
“Y” Cabinet Has 
Informal Meeting 
At Cook Forest
Meeting at ;jj( Forest in Clarion County last Saturday and 
Sunday, eleven members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet and six faculty members discussed campus prob­lems and the aims of the associa­tion. The outstanding event was the informal meeting held Satur­day evening. Gathered around a 
log fire, Prof. Dunnells and the faculty members gave brief talks, after which the entire group en­tered into a lengthy discussion.Service to men, especially young, men, was advanced as the aim of the “Y” by Prof. Dunnells, in liis short talk. Mr. Rlsedorf asked tlie cabinet to help make life on the campus more personal by speaking with a smile to men on the cam­pus. Mr. Schaeffer stressed the need for a better response to chapel worship, asking for personal solicitation of the students. Di­rector Jewett emphasized the fact that students make the reputation of a school. lie added that human 
contacts help a man to make some­thing out of himself and that it is a tluty of tlie “Y” to help freshmen make these contacts. Mr. Davis, secretary of the “Y,” cited numer­
ous examples of the services of the “Y” and how they have been ack­
nowledged by both students and parents.
One of the most humorous inci­dents occurring during the outing was the furor of excitement caused (Continued on Page Two)
“Life of Carnegie” 
Given Professors
Copies of “The Life of Andrew Carnegie,” a biography by Burton J. Hendrick, were presented to three members of the Carnegie Faculty and to Mr. Frank Orbin, business manager, by the Carnegie Corporation of New York.Prof. Willibald M. Trinks, head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering; Prof. Joseph J. James, head of the Department of Chemical Engineering; and Prof. Charles C. Leeds, head of the De­partment of Works Management, were the members of the faculty to receive copies. They have been at Carnegie since the founding of the school in 1905 and were inti­mate friends of Andrew Carnegie.The biography consists of two volumes, and relates the entire life of Andrew Carnegie in all its phases. The handicaps that Mr. Carnegie underwent in gaining his high position in industry, liis per­sonal interests, his friends, and his troubles while in business are told in a vivid manner in this re­cently published work.
TARTAN MAKEUP THURSDAY
Because of the fact that the reg­ular Friday make-up period falls on Armistice Day this week, the Tartan will be laid out on Thurs­day. All members of the staff are asked to be present and to have their copy in by Thursday at one o’clock.
The following set of fraternity rushing rules, including a detailed explanation of each rule, were of­ficially adopted by the Interfrater­nity Council at its meeting in the “Y” clubroom last Saturday morn­ing. Freshmen and fraternity men are asked to cut out these rules for later reference.
Section 1—The rushing season shall be divided into two periods: a contacting period and an open rushing period.Section 2—The contacting period shall begin at 4:20 p. m., Wednes­day, November 30, and shall extend to 9:00 p. m., Thursday, December 1. There shall be no contacting in any of the educational buildings on Wednesday, November 30.Section 3—All contacting shall 
terminate at 9:00 p. m., Wednes­day, November 30, and shall not resume until 8:30 a. m. the follow­ing day.Section 4—At 9:00 p. m., Thurs­day. December 1, all contacting shall cease. The period from 9:00 p. m., Thursday, December 1 to 8:30 a. m., Friday, December 2 shall be a silence period when no contacting or rushing shall be done.Section 5—Contacting consists only of making dates.Section 6—No contacting shall be done in places where students are assembled for instruction, dor­mitory rooms, the 'Carnegie Grill,
Pep Rally To 
Be Held For 
Pitt Game
Bonfire and Celebration 
To Be Sponsored By 
Student Council
A bonfire celebration and pep 
rally for the Pitt-Carnegie game 
will be held in the Bowl Friday, 
November 18, the night before the 
game.
The committee for the bonfire, 
named at the last meeting of Stu­
dent Council, consists of Ann War- 
don, Katherine Wholey, James Fer­
gus and Robert Smith. This com­
mittee is arranging a program which is to last about half an hour. An informal talk to the students by Judge Walter A. Steffen, advis­
ory football coacli, occupies a ten­tative spot on the program. A program of musical entertainment will also be offered.Student Council, in sponsoring an 
organized celebration, wishes to avert a recurrence of past unfortu­nate experiences in connection with the Pltt-Carnegie game. , A successful pre-game celebration, held on the Carnegie campus, will 
set a desirable precedent for fu­ture activities of this nature.Upon the recommendation of the Social Committee, Student Council 
has changed the dates of the Freshman-All Carnegie Dance, for­
merly scheduled for December’ 2, and tlie Interfraternity Formal, scheduled for March 3. The Fresh­man dance will now be held on January. 6, and the Formal on March 10.
WWSW Features 
"Tartan Reporter”
For the third week, the “Tar­tan Reporter” will go on the air from WWSW next Monday aft­ernoon at 5:45 to give the lat­est news notes from the Car­negie campus in his usual in­teresting manner. Roy Minet, drama writer for'the Tartan and a student in the Depart­ment of Drama, is at the pres­ent time acting as the “Tartan Reporter.”Students and faculty mem­bers are urged to tune in on these weekly broadcasts.
The Alumni exhibition of the 
College of Fine Arts of Carnegie is being shown for the first time in the art galleries of the Carnegie Museum. This versatile collection of graduate work contains more than two hundred canvases ren­dered in oils, water colors, char­coal, lithograph, and line draw­ings. Sculptures, ceramics and models of stage settings also form an important part of the show which extends through four gal­
leries.
Each exhibiting artist is a for­mer student of the College of Fine Arts and some are at present in­structors in this school. Among this latter group are Wilfred Readio, Esther Topp Edmonds, Samuel Rosenberg, Raymond Sim- holi, and Raymond Baxter Dowden. Four of the exhibitors, Olmes, Riggs. Kennedy and Thompson
the Commons, Skibo Inn, or off campus except at the home of a freshman. Contacting shall be 
permitted in dormitory hallways.
Section 7—Open rushing shall begin at 8:30 a. m., Friday, Decem­ber 2, and shall terminate at 1:00 a. m., Sunday, December 11.Section 8—Bids may be offered after 8:30 a., m., Monday, Decem­ber 5.Section 9—During the open rush­ing period, all freshmen shall leave the fraternity houses by 9:00 p. m., any night preceding a school day, and all fraternity men shall leave all freshmen by 10:00 p. m„ any night preceding a school day. There shall be no rushing before 8:30 a. m., except on week-ends when fraternities have social events lasting into the a. m. hours in which cases the fraternity men shall leave the freshmen by one hour after the event ends. No 
function held in any fraternity house shall last later than 1:00 a. m. Saturday morning or 12:00 mid­night Saturday during open rush­ing.
Section 10—All rushing and bid­ding shall cease at 1:00 a. m., Sun­day, December 11.B Section 11—There shall be no communication between rushees and fraternities from 1:00 a. m., Sunday, December 11 to 10:00 a. m., Sunday, December 11, at which (Continued on Page Four)
Druids To Be 
Reorganized 
At Carnegie
Members Of Sophomore 
Organization To Be 
Initiated Soon
The Carnegie chapter of Druids, 
national sophomore honorary so­
ciety will be reinstated on the cam­
pus in the near future, at which 
time the initiation of the present 
sophoniore^ honorary society will 
take place. This action is being 
directed by Student Council and the last active body of Druids, members of the present senior class.Membership in the organization is drawn from the group of fresh­men participating most in student 
activities. This group becomes the active body the following year.On the Carnegie campus, the Druids, together with the Cwens, national women’s sophomore hon­orary society, help the faculty to orientate the freshmen during Freshman Week. It is also the purpose of the society to enforce plebe regulations under the direc- ! tion of a Student Council chair-1 man. The Druids also work in co­operation with the officers of the sophomore class in making plans for the annual Sophomore Hop.
Members of the Carnegie chap­ter of Druids will include: William W. Sàuvary, president; Richard A. 
Blair, vice president; William S. Carlson, secretary; Elmer A. Blas- dell, Roger L. Burke, Richard L. Jones, Wilbur Plummer, George W. Goodridge, Augustine J. Deely, and Edward G. Rigg.
Sir James Irvine Is 
Carnegie Day Speaker
The annual Carnegie Day cele­
bration will take place on Novem­
ber 22 at ten-thirty o’clock in the ; 
Carnegie Music Hall. At this time j 
the customary march of faculty 
and students with the Kiltie Band 
leading will proceed to the Music 
Hall, where an elaborate program 
will be offered. The main speaker 
will be Sir James Irvine, principal 
and vice chancellor of St. An­
drew’s University in Scotland.This celebration is held annually on tlie assembly day closest to the birthday of Andrew Carnegie which is on .November twenty-fifth.
have continued post-graduate work under the tutelage of European modernists. The credit for tlie ex­cellent arrangement of the paint­ings is due to Professors Ashe and MacGilvary of the Department of Painting and Decoration.
Among the outstanding portraits in oils are those executed by Vin­cent Nesbert, David Fraser and William Sliulgold. An interesting achievement in planes and pattern is accomplished by William Horace Riggs in his landscapes, and an unusual mural in micarta with aluminum inlay designed niodern- istically is the work of Sidney War­ner. Another very individual piece ! is ‘‘Polished Lady” by Robert Lepper which is modeled in metals. 
Russell Gould Twiggs is the painter of several abstract compositions which attract attention for their 
(Continued on rage Two)
Drama Dept. 
Will Present 
lb sen’s Play
Special Performance For 
Alumni To Be Given 
On Nov. 18
PLOT OF “PILLARS” 
IS MELODRAMATIC
Production Will Be Under 
Direction Of Professor 
E. W. Hickman
By ROY MINET
The second Little Theater pro- 
duction, Henrik Ibsen’s “The Pil­lars of Society” under the direction of Professor E; W. Hickman, will open Friday evening. Six evening 
performances will be given through to November 17, with a matinee at 3:30 on .Friday, November 18. A 
special performance for alumni will be given on the evening of Novem­ber 18 as a part of the annual Alumni Homecoming program.
“The Pillars of Society” is one of Ibsen’s early plays, written 
while he was under the influence of Scribe, the inventor of the well- made play. The plot, therefore, is : melodramatic, and many scenes are effectively theatrical, especially 
according to the older ideas of good theater; but the germ of al­most all of the ideas that are the warp and woof of Ibsen’s later plays can be found in “Pillars.”A splendid introduction to the whole of Ibsen drama is provided 
by “The Pillars of Society,” be­cause it pictures the kind of com­munity in which the Norwegian 
dramatist placed the action of the bulk of his plays, and because it shows the narrow mindedness of , the petty bourgeoisie, their hypoc­risy. their constant gossiping, and 
their compromise with truth and integrity which had the rasping effect on Ibsen that drove him to 
become an enemy of social conven­tions.
The cast of players is as follows: (Continued on Page Three)
Changed Point 
System Adopted 
For Activities
Important changes have been 
made in the Women’s Activities 
Point System in a revised rating 
of campus activities made by the 
active Mortar Board chapter and 
Student Council with Hazel Gough 
’33, Margaret Morrison, chairman 
of the committee, in charge.
Several offices which were not 
considered important enough for 
first or second class have been 
rerated.
A ruling was also made that the 
names of all nominees for offices 
must be filed with the chairman of 
the Women’s Activities Point Sys­
tem before an election is held. 
This requirement was made so that the eligibility of candidates may be checked before the election.. 
The results of all elections must also be filed with the chairman of the committee.
The classification of activities as it appears in the Student Hand­book for this year is a copy of the 
old rating. The revised rating separates all activities into five classes. Major changes in each group are-indicated by asterisks. 
Reclassification of Activities
CLASS I
Guild President.
Margaret Morrison Senate President. “Student Council Secretary.Tartan—News Editor.
Women’s Activities Point System Chair­man.
Women’s Athletic Association President. Women’s Dormitory Council President. 
Women’s Scholarship Organization Pres­ident.CLASS II
Arts Senate—Vice President.
Carnival Week Women’s Chairman.Glee Club Manager.Glee Club Student Director.(Continued on Page Four)
Group Organized 
To Aid Stewards
A new organization, the Stew­ards’ Guild, which is composed of the managers of the various cam­pus social fraternities, has recent­ly been formed.
The purpose of the Guild is to instruct new stewards in their work so that the highest efficiency will be developed in the least amount of time; and to create a co-operative buying group so that a saving can be made on purchases by wholesale buying.It is the opinion of the more ex­perienced stewards that great sav­ings can be made by pooling the buying resources of the various fraternities. This will be especial­ly true because of Carnegie’s loca­tion in a highly competitive dis­trict. Similar co-operative buying organizations have been in opera­tion in other schools for years.The officers of the Stewards’ Guild are: Stuart J. Meyers, Kap­pa Delta Rho, president; Harold B. Pressman, Beta Sigma Rho, treasurer; and William H. Reed, Phi Kappa, secretary.
Bacchanalians 
Get Charter 
From Council
Dramatic Club Chooses 
Board Of Advisers 
And Officers
The Student Council at its last 
meeting accepted the constitution 
submitted by The Bacchanalians, 
producers of the Spring Carnival 
musical revue, and granted a char­
ter to the organization. Announce­
ment was also made that the offi­
cers of the club Avould be William 
G. Beal and Herman Liveright, di­
rectors in charge of production, 
and Franklin M. Heller, business 
manager.
Membership in the Bacchanalians 
is open to any student in any de­
partment of the school. It pro­
duces, as the closing event of the 
annual Spring Carnival, an entirely original musical revue. A general call for talent has been issued. The Bacchanalians will hold their first meeting on Sunday evening, at eight o’clock. This short 
meeting will be held in the. Union in the Administration Building. Any person who is in­terested in participating is invited to attend the meeting. The offi­cers are looking for material and talent of all kinds. Under the charter granted by the Student Council, students participating in 
the Bacchnalians’ production are eligible for activities keys under the usual rules.The officers of the organization have announced that they have ap­pointed several students to execu­tive positions on the advisory board of the club. John Dippold, '33, Department of Music is gen­eral music director. He is organ­izing an orchestra of students which will rehearse and play with the show. William Bales, ’33, 
Department of Drama, will work in the capacity of dance di­rector. Mr. Bales staged the dances for “Tar and Feathers”-— last year’s show. Emanuel Break­stone will train the singers for the new revue and William Belirse will be the technical director. There are still several positions on the advisory board to be 'filled. These appointments will be an­nounced at the meeting on Sunday.Mr. Lloyd Weninger, scenic di­rector of the Department of Drama, is again acting as faculty adviser, for the Bacchanalians.
Y.M. and W.H.A. 
Has Studio Party
The Student Council of tlie Y. M. & W. H. A., Bellefield and Fifth 
avenues, has completed arrange­ments for a studio party to be held on Thursday evening of this week in the large studio of the Y. M. & W. H. A. from 9 to 12.An orchestra has been secured for this party, which is planned for all Jewish students in Pittsburgh universities and colleges. Novelty games and refreshments will also be featured. Tickets, which will cost 15 cents, may be secured from any of the committee members or at the door.Plans have also been made for the regular Friday-noon current discussion groups which meet at luncheon each week in the dining 
room of the Y. M. & W. H. A. Im­portant current questions are dis­cussed under the direction of a prominent speaker. Rabbi Ben­jamin Glazer will preside at the first luncheon of the season on Friday of this week.
The Student Council is consider­ing plans for an intercollegiate 
bridge tournament, the matches of which are to be played at the Y. M. & W. H. A.
Carnegie representatives of the Student Council are: Milton Ber­lin, Miriam Malakoff, Melvin Schlossman, Henrietta Steinberg, and Eleanor Stern.
Druids Engage Kuless 
Band For Tea Dance
Druids, men’s sophomore honor­ary, has engaged Bill Kulesz and 
his Kilties to play at a tea dance 
in Thistle Hall tomorrow from 4 to 6 o’clock. This orchestra played at the Kiltie Band tea dance last Wednesday.The proceeds will be used to promote the sophomore honorary on the campus. Tickets, which 
are 25 cents a person, may be bought from any Druid or at the door.
PAYNE VISITS CARNEGIE
Mr. B. Iden Payne, visiting di­rector in the Department of Drama, has arrived at Carnegie. He is conducting readings of “The Ticket of Leave-man,” by Tom Taylor, which he will stage as the first of the two productions given each year under his direction.
“1 Membership Offered 
To Men Contributing 
One Dollar
PART OF PROCEEDS 
GO TO CARNEGIE “Y”
Feathers To Be Given In 
Order To Distinguish 
Contributors
By ANNA E. LADD
The annual Welfare Drive, the 
only charity drive sponsored by 
Student Council, Will officially open on the campus tomorrow and con­tinue until November 23. This- campaign, which takes the place of the usual Y. M. & W.. C. A. drives, was inaugurated at Carne­gie last year and was placed under the direction of Student Council.Although no quota has been set for tyie school this year, the com­mittee in charge hopes to realize a contribution of one dollar from each student. This year those men who contribute this unofficial quota of one dollar will receive, upon presentment of his receipt at the “Y” office, a membership card to the Y. M. C. A. which entitles him to the full privileges of his mem­bership.If any student feels, however, that he cannot donate this amount, any contribution that lie wishes to give will be taken. A card bear­ing the student’s name will be in the hands of class representatives who have been appointed to take charge of their respective sections in all divisions of the school. These cards will be marked off with sections in which tne amount of the contribution may be placed. The card will also include a de­tachable receipt which will be given to the contributor upon re­ceipt of his donation. If the stu­dent finds that he would like to contribute but has not the neces­sary money at the time, he may pledge his donation by signifying it on the card and signing his name. The receipt will be given him on payment of his pledge.The money collected will be dis­tributed to seventy different chari­table agencies in the Pittsburgh district without regard for race or religion. The Carnegie Y. M. & W. C. A. will also receive a share of this money for use in its relief work.
The committee urges those who contribute to wear the feathers which will be distributed by the class representatives when the stu­dent offers liis donation.
In case some are overlooked by the solicitors they may present their .contributions at the “Y” of­fice to Mr. Davis.
Dr. E. Fellows 
Will Lecture On 
English Madrigal
Dr. Edmund Ii. Fellows, prom­inent English musical authority, will deliver a lecture on the Eng­lish Madrigal Friday,. November 18, at Carnegie Lecture I-Iali. I-Iis appearance in Pittsburgh is spon-. sored jointly by Phi Mu Alpha, the men’s musical honorary, and Sigma Alpha Iota, the women’s musical honorary.
The recent revival of interest in early song forms, as the madrigal and carol, in England, Germany, and America has been largely due to Dr. Fellows. He has done much work and research in connection with the madrigal of the Eliza­bethan and Jacobean epochs of English history and has become the foremost living authority on that branch of musical knowledge.Dr. Fellows has been an import­ant figure in English musical so­ciety. He has received the de­grees of bachelor of music from Oxford University and doctor of music from Dublin University. Formerly he held the position of director of the Choir in St. George’s Chapel in Windsor Cas­tle.
His lecture here is to be illus­trated either by the Carnegie Mad­rigal Choir or by records that have -been made under his personal di­rection. The singing in these rec­ords has been done by the Choir of St. George’s Chapel or by the English Singers.This will be Dr. Fellows’ second lecture sponsored by a Carnegie organization. I-Ie spoke here in 1927.
COMING EVENTS
Wednesday, November 9:Druid Tea Dance, Thistle Hall, 4 to 6.
Y. W. C. A. Dinner, Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall, 6 o’clock. Speaker, Father De­laney of St. Agnes' Church.
Thursday, November 10:Military Ball, Thistle Hall, 10 to 2.
Friday, November 11:Armistice Day. No classes.
Saturday, November 12:Night Arts Dance, Thistle Hall, 9 to 12.
Review Of Alumni Art Exhibit
By ROSEMARY SAXTON

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1932
Tartan Plebes and W. & J.
Frosh Play To a 6-6 Tie
Tartans Op en 
Grid Relations 
With Xavier U.
Women’s Athletics by Gloria KloosWSF
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN
Tournaments of all kinds seem 
to draw the spot-light for the com­
ing week. Hockey intra-class con­
tests and archery tournaments top 
the list of special events. The 
freshmen have enough players- on their squad to challenge all of the upperclass teams at once, so be­ware of them in the coming matches. As yet the champion freshman team has not been an­nounced, but there are rumors about a certain group who play to­gether at every practice. The in­tra-class games which are sched­uled for Tuesday and Thursday will decide the victors.
Pitt has invited twelve Carnegie girls to compete in a Hockey Play- Day on one of their hills this coin­ing Saturday. P. C. W. and Du- quesne have also been invited, but we are placing all our bets on - le Tartans. Carnegie won both gar as last year. Can we repeat?
The archery tournament for all who have made a score of ninety or above started last Friday. There ought to be some more points 
awarded soon.While we are speaking of awards, let us say that the totals of indij- vidual athletic points are posted on the W. A. A. Bulletin Board m Margaret Morrison.
Spectacular Runs Feature 
Game Played On 
Muddy Field
Improved Carnegie Team 
Meets Musketeers 
In Cincinnati
BY JOE BRONSON
BOWSER’S RUN OF 
95 YDS. GAINS TIE
A new name will appear in the Carnegie athletic record books next Saturday after our Tartans journey to Cincinnati and meet Xavier University of that city. Although the contest falls in the warm-up class, Carnegie does not intend to take it too lightly or the 
strong little squad from Cincy might upset some dope. However, if things fare as expected, the Tar­tan reserves who have so far this season had little opportunity to show their wares, should break into the lineup and aid in the scoring.
Xavier Record Just Fair
Xavier, while not sporting such 
an enviable record thus far this season, is gaining in strength and experience every week and expects to reach its peak Saturday against the Skibos. The Musketeers started off their current schedule 
by registering two wins. The first victim was Transylvania, 46-0 and 
then Centre fell by a 7-0 score. Since then things have not gone so well for Xavier, footballically speaking. Oglethorpe (who bowed to Duquesne) and Dayton Univer­
sity both dumped the Musketeers by 7-0 counts. W. and J. ran up a 34-0 score in Cincy but last week Xavier started on the come­back road by holding Loyola of New Orleans to a 6-6 tie.Reports from Cincinnati contend that W. and J’s 3s-0 victory was no 
true indication of Xavier’s strength as the Presidents gained two of their touchdowns after intercept­ing passes, two via their own aerial attack and one on a long 
run. Also, only once did W. and J. register two first downs in a row which is quite a tribute to the de­fensive qualities of the Musketeer line.The Xavier footballers had an open date last week and are mak­ing no secret of the fact that they are pointing for the Carnegie game. It is the hope of the Ohio­ans to catch the Plaid players when the minds of the latter are directed toward the coming Pitt contest. This fact, coupled with usual fighting and psychological ad­
vantages held by the underdog, may combine to give the Skibos a harder game than expected.Temple Game Showed Tartans ImprovedThe two-day layoff which Bob Waddell gave his boys after the
Student tickets for the Car­negie Tech-PItt football game must bo exchanged at the Ath- Ictic office this week. The days for exchange arc as follows: Upperclassmen, Monday and Tuesday; Freshmen, Wednes­day and Thursday. The stu­dents are asked to please ob­serve these dates and exchange tickets at the proper times.
Graduate Manager of Ath­letics, Mr. Overend, wishes it to be announced that the Grid- Graph will be in operation for the Xavier football game this Saturday afternoon. As usual, there will be no charge for stu­dents as they will be admitted on their student books. The admission for outsiders will be twenty-five cents.
RED GRANGE, THE GALLOPING GHOST FROM ILLINOIS who wore 
that famous number "77" jcroey, and who several years back startled 
the football world by scoring four touchdowns in less than fifteen min­
utes against Michigan, Is once more stepping high, wide and handsome 
upon the gridiron. For the past few years the Illinois Iceman has 
been playing professional football and this year, with the Chicago 
Bears, he io doing mighty well for the professional game. In addi­
tion to toting that pigskin, Mr. Grange has become a sports writer 
and several of his articles have appeared in the Saturday Evening 
Post. Probably the most interesting part of his last story was his 
statement upon the manner In which tholr practice periods arc spent. The Pro's practice five days a week and most of the two to three- hour drill sessions are spent In the practicing of FUNDAMENTALS. Charging, blocking, and tackling are stressed the most. Many college coaches think that these things should be learned in high school or prep school. It seems strange that a team composed of some of the best college players in the country should stoop so low as to drill upon these menial things. Perhaps the “Red Head" doesn’t know what he is talking about as he has been playing organized football 
for only fourteen years.
HAVING HAD TWO WEEKS OF REST SINCE THE LAST GAME, the Tartan footballers are raring to get at that Xavier team In Cin­cinnati tliis Saturday afternoon. For the first time since the Wash- Jeff game the team will go on to the field with no injured mates on the sidelines with the possible exception of Tesser, who may be held out of the lineup until the Pitt game. The Plaid team should show 
better form ih this game than at any time this season. In the Tem­ple contest they showed a definite improvement over that displayed in earlier games, and in the scrimmage session on Thursday they went about their duties in a manner seen but few.times so far this year. Although Xavier is not considered Btrong they should give the Tar­tans a chance to polish up on a few new plays and improve the run­ning attack for the Pitt game next week. Xavier has a good defensive team this year despite the fact that W. & .T. defeated them 34-0. Most of the W. & J.’s touchdowns were scored on intercepted passes or passes of their own. So stubborn was the resistance on line plays that tho strong Red and Black team did not score two first downs in suc­cession at any time during tho game. This game should be just what is needed to put the team on edge for the Pitt contest on November 19.
Wash-Jeff Scores First 
Blancke’s Run Of 
75 Yards
Temple game seemed to be just both individually and as a team,, the right tonic as Wednesday’s was by far the best Carnegie has drill was marked by a spirit and thus far exhibited in this carn- dash which has not been seen paign.since pre-season practices. After So while it will be well nigh im- 
Thursday’s scrimmage, Bob’s face possible for the Tartan players to- wore a broad smile which would keep the Pitt game from their seem to indicate that our Tartans minds this week and when they are rounding into shape and will face Xavier Saturday, nevertheless be “up there” for that all-import- the contest with the Ohioans can ant game next week. It is no se- not be taken lightly. So much de- cret that the Plaid team functioned pends upon the manner in which smoother in the Temple game than the Plaid, machine is groomed and at any other time this season. The polished down there in Cincinnati blocking was cleaner, the tackling that a slip-up at this juncture- fiercer and the play in general, would be disastrous.
The plebes of Carnegie Tech and Wash-Jeff put on a real thriller down in the Carnegie Bowl last Saturday morn. The score was a 6-6 deadlock, but the sixty minutes of play was jammed full of thrills, even though it was played in a pile 
of mud.The first cause for excitement came early in the second quarter when Blanch, a flashy Prexy back, 
slipped around left end for 80 yards and a touchdown. Just be­fore the half ended, the big red team again threatened when 
Perkins broke away and was thrown out of bounds on the two- yard stripe as the whistle blew.The Tartan plebes reversed the order of things in the second half. Owen Bowser, star halfback, ran back to his three-yard line to re­cover a long W. and J. punt and then proceeded to slip through the entire field for 97 yards, tying the score. Both teams failed to con­
vert the extra point.The plebes were supposed to end their season with the Presidents, but it is likely that they may yet play a cancelled game with Kiski. Definite arrangements have not been made as yet.All in all, it has been a lean year for the Skibo yearlings, but considering the lack of material, injuries, and bad breaks in general, they have made a creditable show­ing.
Hannum Calls 
Floor Squad 
For Practice
Westminster 
Defeated By 
Tech Harriers
Cross-Country Team 
Scores Easy Win By 
15-40 Score
The Camogle Tech Harriers 
easily defeated WeBtminBter last 
Saturday In Schenley Park by the 
perfect score of 15-40. The Tar* 
tans were able to place ten men 
before Westminster crossed the 
finish line making it the most de­
cisive victory for the Plaid in sev­
eral years. After an early season 
defeat, the Tartans have chalked 
up two victories in the last few 
weeks.
Although Carnegie placed the first 
ten men only the first five count 
on the score. They were Allan, 
Schell, Stankey, Burke, and Netzer; 
Westminster finished with Wavor, Gerstner, Snyder, Needham, and 
Bowers.
Next Saturday the Tartans 
travel to Morgantown to meet the Mountaineers on their own tough course. Last year the West Vir­ginians chalked up a win over a 
strong Carnegie team and' they are figuring on repeating this year. 
The Tartans are figuring the other way so it will be a close race.The Plebes continued in their losing ways by dropping two meets to their opponents last week. On Tuesday the Peabody runners took them over and the same process was repeated by Taylor Allderdice on Friday. However Garrlety did some good running including a first placo on Friday. He was chosen captain following tho Peabody 
moot.
Fergus And Jagnow Are 
Missing From First 
Practice Session
Max Hannum’s promising squad 
of courtmen has had its ranks ma­
terially reduced in the last few 
weeks. Co-captain “Red” Fer­
gus, probably the finest guard ever 
to play basketball at Carnegie, and 
Lou Jagnow, this section’s most 
outstanding forward last season, have been lost to the squad at least two months as a result of se­rious operations on their knees.Jagnow injured his leg in a base­
ball game last spring, and it was thought that an early operation would prevent more trouble later on when the Toledo flash will be sorely needed. Fergus injured his 
knee in football practice this fall, bringing his gridiron ambitions to an early close. He was operated on Saturday at the Allegheny Gen­eral hospital.The squad has been working out for the last three weeks, mostly in 
the open, and Coach Hannum is confident that his powerful outfit 
will be district champs this time. An influenza .epidemic ruined all such hopes last year.Among the basket flingers out for honors this year are Silverman, Stentz, Smith, Edelblut, Ewalt, Riggs, and Petransky. Several others will join the squad when football season runs its course.
5200 Forbes Street
SPECIALS THIS WEEK
Stationery with Tech 
Emblem, $1.00 value, 59c 
Electric Alarm Clock, 
$2.50 value .... $1.25
MAX HANNUM, PUBLICITY DIRECTOR FOR THE ATHLETIC AS­SOCIATION, basketball coach, and one of the most popular figures on the campus has every right to become the Gil Dobic of basketball. Two of his mainstays for this year’s basketball team arc in the Alle­gheny General Hospital recovering from knee operations. Jagnow has been there for over a week, and Co-captain "Angus” Foir-Gus left Saturday to have his trick knee fixed. It is hoped that both men will bo ready for the opening game on January 7, but even If they arc completely recovered they will have lost many weeks of valuable prac­tice. Coach Hannum has been tearing his hair all week In his worry over the prospects for the coming season. Mr. Hannum would like to announce at thla time that all upperclassmen who intend to come out for varsity basketball should do so, Immediately.Jimmy Leonard, last year's captain, and at the present time coach of the Plcbc court team has been working on the Freshman squad dur­ing the past week. Between fifty and sixty candidates reported for the opening day of practice. Any plebes desiring to try out for the year­ling team are asked to do ho at once.
Carnegie Alumni Art 
Exhibit Is Reviewed
Continued From Pago 1 ———
rhythm and vivid color.Janet do Coux presents two fine sculptural designs and Harry Hay­den exhibits clever statuettes con­verted into pottery. The link be­tween industry and art is well shown by Ralph Kruclt in his working of functional design into modern appliances. The drink mixer, the electric sweeper, and the air conditioner are all displayed in now and more saleable design.Although there are over sixty participants in this exhibition, a list of tli£ better known names in tho Pittsburgh locality is as fol­lows: Clifford A. Bayard, DorothyBuglier, Raymond Baxter Dowden, Esther Topp Edmonds, John C. Ed­wards, David Fraser, Grace Ly- singer Hamilton. Bertha Gill Johns­ton, Lillian Kimball, Mary Waugh King, T. Ralph Lian, Mary Shaw Marohnic, Vincent Nesbert, Mildred Young Olmes, Milan Petrovits, Wil­fred A. Readio, Isabella Chitten­den Robor, Samuel Rosenberg, Margaret Ruse, Mildred Floyd Sdunortz, Jeannette C. Shirk, Wil­liam Shulgokl, Raymond Slmboli, 
Racliol McCleland Sutton, Robert Young, and Mary Adelo Zieglor.This Alumni exhibition which opened last week will continue to be shown at the Museum for the next six weeks. As it is a repre­sentative collection of graduate work, (he exhibition Is well worth seeing.
Don’t Forget to See Our Display of 
Scheaffer Pens andi Pencils.
THB ('AnNilSOIlD TECH PLEBE FOOTBALL TEAM sltlddod Ita wny to a (1-6 tio with tho supposedly superior Wash-Jeff froshmen on thè mud covorod surface of tho Bowl Saturday morning. Dospita tho min and mud il. wiih ono of tho moflt splrited and cleun games wo havo witnoHsod Itliis yoar. 'l'ho Plobos who woro ligliter and laclcod capatile imbuti tu tos outfought and outplayod thoir opponenti!. The game was foul.urod by long runs by nionvbor» of both team»; tho longoni, boing that of eatursa"TSn Tartan Rpo Nitide, who cangili, a punì; ”ap" hi» own goal lino, star tei! off to thè righi; rovorsod bis fleld and ran »7 yards for a l.ouclidown. Tliis suore oamo òarly in tho socond hulf wlion 
tho Plobos woro troll In r bohlnd a 10-0 scoro. In tho lirsl. quartor Bowsor ran off tuokla tini; back and raeod ovor llfty yards to (.ho ilftoon- yard lino whoro ho wiih dowiiod Troni bohlnd. Blunalco for tho Proxlos lutar tho orni of Ilio (Irsi, quartor ran 60 yards for tholr Ione tally. In tho last play boforo tho hall’, Peritimi, W. & .1. lmlfbaok, lutorcoptod ono' of Spliinlt’ii palinoti on blu own twonty-yard lino and raaod through Ilio oritiro Plaid tonni to Ilio two-yard lino whoro Sponcor brought bini down from bohlnd.
“Y” Cabinet Meets 
At; Cook’s Forest
----------— Continued From Thh(j e
by tho fnlluro of William Haviland l<> r. l uI II with l.lio .group from :i 
(ramp ovor ono of tho mountain (nilhi. it Hoomii that ho wandered a Hold, lost bln way, and found him­self In unfamiliar territory among (lie tall timbers while tho rost of tho party was safoly obsorvlng the sunset at tho Inn. Searching par­ties woro sollt after him, but of no 
avail. Finally, after a bit of Daniel Boonlng, llavllaml found bis way back, sporting a pair of frazzled knickers and greatly jarred nerves caused by visions of bears, Indi­ans, and the like.
DR. JOCK SUTHERLAND’S GOLDEN PANTHERS continued tholr vlotorloiin march by defeating tho ntrong Rod nnd Blue team of tho University of Penmiylvanla on Franklin Field 19-12. It wnn the first defeat for tho Quakers this yoar. It ooems no If we can never pick ’em right. Saturday we hot our loot'ton cents on W. &. J. and what did Elmer Layden’u Duqueono boys do but walk away with a 19-0 vic­tory. Now watch tho comparison» botweon tho Dukou and tho Tar­tans roll In. In tho. Big Ten Michigan oked out a 7-0 victory ovor In­diana to keep Its victorious march unmarrod. The Army Mule had Its big guns In action and they drove tho sons of John Hardvard clear out of tho Cambridge stadium and back to the "Yard”, whoro they '"dug In” and pulled the dirt In after them. There is a cry going around In Boston: "Has anyone scon Harvard?” You sec It was a 46-0shellacking. If Alabama hadn’t stoppod V. P. I.’s winning streak by a 9-6 scorc the R. O. T. C. was looking around for another placo to camp this summer, for it would havo beccn no placo for lesser mortals If the Southerners had marched Into Fort Humphries carrying with them a record of an undefeated season.
liberty Engraving Company
PRINTER
6470 Monitor Street
and a set of drawing instruments.The Hut: a hat with initials G. A. P., and a striped blue silk um­brella.
Skibo Inn: three pairs of gloves, one black knit, one brown kid, and one creme kid; “Essentials of German” belonging to Robert Fell; G. L. Frauenheim’s “Plane Trig­onometry.”
Grill: one leather cigaret case.Commons: a black raincoat,chemistry book, a black notebook, 
and a slide rule. v ,
LOST AND FOUND
The following articles have been left in various buildings on the campus and if their owners will call at these places they may ob­tain them upon identification: Lost and Found Office, basement Administration Building: twoplebe dinks, a girl’s blue tam, two pairs of kid gloves, a green foun­tain pen, a string of genuine pearls, a book of log tables, a slide rule.
WSFeatu ar ts" sTnFRp oTea”u
ÇFor that affair
HOWARD
Complete with dress vest
No Chargo for alterations
Socially affluent col­
lege men will make 
Howard Tuxedos 
play an important 
part in their many 
evening functions.You know how it is. If a cigarette is mild—that is, not 
harsh or bitter, but smokes cool and smooth—then you like 
it and don’t worry about how many or how often you smoke.
And if it tastes right—that is, not oversweet, not flat— 
then you enjoy it all the more.
The right kind of ripe, sweet Domestic and Turkish to­
bacco ... the right ageing and blending... make Chesterfields 
milder, better-tasting .. .They Satisfy!
HOWARD
CLOTHESCarefully tailored and hand­
somely finished with Skinner's 
guaranteed satin faced lapels. 
Correct in ovary detail.
233 FIFTH AVENUE
Bet. Wood & Market Sts.
d eVOL. Nhooraa u 
gircS tjCARRj ;jE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1932
Workers Needed 
As Night School 
Activities Begin
Night College 
Of Industries 
Holds Smoker
Night Arts To 
Dance Sat. In 
Thistle Hall
Night College Of 
Fine Arts Elects 
Four Officers
Thanksgiving Reccss 
Dunce Soon To Be HeldNo Classes Friday 
Night, November II
No classes will be in session this Friday evening, November 11. This is the first holiday of the year for the night school and no doubt will be welcomed by the student body. Classes will resume as usual the fol­lowing Monday evening.
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT despite the «xtreme pre­cautions taken, this person ac­tually crashed the Industries Smoker, honest Injun.THAT the Goliaths that put on a wrestling exhibit seemed to have a fondness for each other’s toes.THAT there were less broad 
smiles after the election than before. Oh, well. Somebody 
bigger than us took it on the chin yesterday.THAT we arc to have our first taste of night school vacation this Friday.THAT some mighty hunters are preparing to leave on a hunting trip this week. We'll give you the low-down when they re­
turn.THAT a night mud student (sculptor to you) visited the Industries school and forgot to take off his skirt before coming over.THAT we are going to put on our disguise and crash the Arts dance Saturday night.THAT we enjoyed the sight the other night of two big shots be­ing given a good bawling out by a bigger shot.THAT the signs tell us that there will be no pumpkin pies for reckless guys, so be careful. THAT that’s that, and I’ll be 
seenya.
The first big dance of the Night 
Student Council will be held on 
November 25 in the gymnasium, 
•auditorium. This will bo the Thanksgiving Week .Recess Dance which the council bolds annually.More details will be announced later concerning this dance as the arrangements are as yet not com­pleted. The assessment to stu­dents will be one dollar per couple as heretofore on all council dances. Invitations will soon be available for distribution. Better make note' of the date, November 25 and plan to attend the frolic.
Since all three of the colleges have had their elections and the new officers have begun to get in­to the swing of things, we are 
now both surprised and pleased to notice that the beginning of the night school social year is, like the ever elusive prosperity, just around the corner. The College, of Fine Arts will start the ball rolling on November 12, when they 
hold their first dance of the year. Other activities will soon be giv­ing the night students a chance to get away from the grind for a night now and then.
The new officers will be In need of men who are willing to assist 
in preparations for most of these affairs. The Night Student Coun­cil, especially, will need assistance 
in preparing for their dances the first of which will take place in the Gymnasium Auditorium on 
November 25. This will be the 
Thanksgiving Dance, which has been a great success in previous years.
The Council, as well as the 
school officers, can depend upon 
the former students to turn out and help, but that isn’t enough. 
The co-operation of the new stu­dents is welcomed. Activities keys are awarded for meritorious work clone, as explained on page 37 of 
the handbook. Don’t be bashful. Report to the council, or your 
school officers your willingness to aid, and they will give you your directions. Watch this page for notices calling for workers.
On October 2S, the Night College 
of Fine Arts held its annual elec­
tion of officers. Mr. William R. 
Hodder, President of the Night 
Student Council was present at the 
election aiul gave a short and in­
teresting talk on the work of the council. A number of students responded by turning in their names for working on the activi­ties of the council.As the result of the election Mar­tin B. I-Iudale was made President, Henry E. Schwartz, vice president; 
Andrew N. Evans, secretary; and Edward F. White, treasurer. These men have been active on the cam­pus in the activities of the council as well as those of their own Col­lege.Plans were made immediately to shape up an interesting program for the coming year for Night Arts and the first function will be the dance which is scheduled for this Saturday evening._________________
Orchestra Selected For 
First Social Event 
Of New Season
Motion Pictures And The 
Kiltie Band Are The 
Big Attractions
There should be a holiday in the 
night school shortly, I sorta-felt it 
in my bones, so I looked up the so­
cial register—guess I should have 
referred to it as the official holi­
day list, but then who cares. It is 
a holiday I am after, and call it 
by whatever name you wish, No­
vember eleventh is one of those 
things for the night students. No 
class on this evening. Bet some of the instructors are sore. It 
wrecks the possibility of a pesky 
quiz for them and that is some­thing in their young life. Good thing I thought of looking or else 
there would be a big number of night students coming out on Fri­day. However, if you don’t take 
my word for it ask your instructor and he will tell you.Elections, elections, elections, 
when are they going to stop. You look here and you hear of one, look 
there and you hear of another, and then you look somewhere else and still you hear of another elec­tion. Now it is the big fight. By 
the time this dope of mine is read some one will be in and some one will be out. Or some one will be out and someone will be in. Take it which every way you will. One says one thing and then by way of 
diversion some one else says an­other. Which one to believe is like an equation in chemistry or mechanics, if you will. They have me treed. But then I don't count for much.
Speaking of trees brings me to an absorbing topic just now. You don’t know; well it was just like this—there were three boats in an oar, and the oar leaked—what was I .saying? Oh! why they are out bunting. Yes, some of the 
night students have gone hunting for nuts, and rabbits, and squir­rels, and perhaps big game too. Hope none of them come back shot. It would spoil a perfectly good hunting season if they did. 
Wonder what it would be like to go hunting? I never did it so I can’t imagine what it is like. The only thing I am able to hunt is one of these elusive logarithms which we have to play with so much in our math class.
Sure would be fine if we had a dance every night in the week in­stead of having to wait months for one. But then I shouldn’t say anthing because !t won't be long until the first one will be scheduled for us. It appears to be during the Thanksgiving recess and this 
should afford us some time to en- joy^oursefves. We don't have a grea£ deal of time at our disposal —I might, but when I say our, I 
am referring to those industrious night students who never, no nev­er, take their eyes off their books. They don’t even know there is a dance scheduled. They better 
wise up because they don’t know what they are missing.
Everything is serene on the 
“Wabash” now. The shops seem to have new lights, the class rooms seem to be buzzing with in­
dustry, the parking spaces are still at a premium, and the arts have enough paper napkins to dry their dirty hands. Well these are surely things to be thankful for. Glad to note that we have plenty of 
towels in the wash room. Some­body is surely on his toes. That- a-boy, you will have our support at any time for these blotting fa­vors.
Have my ear to the ground, and my eye to the sky for some inside dope these days, out as yet I don't seem to be able to manage to come across. My predecessor seemed to have the happy faculty of grasping the dope from the air, but I have to gr >pe along as best I can and 
hope for nibbles from time to time. For me, it is just one long week 
after another. No sooner finished than I have to start on another trail, and the funy part of it is that these trails lead nowhere.Which brings me to signinq off with "So long until next week”-— 
That was the Idle Night Student of Station PLAID who will return again next week at this same hour. The Tartan bids you all "Good Night.”____________________________
Night Industries 
Smoker Crashed 
By Art Student
The Night College of Fine Arts will hold its first dance of the 
year on Saturday, November 12, in Thistle Hall. Tickets are now be­ing distributed by the officers of that college. Every Arts student 
who has paid the night activities fee is entitled to attend this dance.
Little need be said about the popularity of these Night Arts 
dances. Former students look for. ward to them with keen pleasure. 
All new students are urged to at­tend and participate in one of the gayest affairs on the night campus.The committee in charge has se­cured the services of Bill Rose and his boys to furnish music for the occasion. Those students who danced to Bill’s orchestra at one of last year’s functions will be certainly pleased to 
hear this news. This orchestra 
is one of the finest to appear on the campus and is sure to add greatly to the success of the evening.The committee wishes to empha* size at this time that this dance is open only to night students of the 
Fine Arts school; no one else will be admitted. This rule will be strictly enforced.
This dance will provide an ex­cellent means of meeting your- classmates in a social way; so 
don't forget Saturday night in Thistle Hall from 9 until 12 p. m. We’ll be looking for you.
The smoker of the Night College 
of Industries was the last function 
to be held during the past few 
weeks by the individual colleges. 
This smoker is a semi-annual get 
together of the Night College of 
Industries and affords an oppor­tunity to the men in this college of coming out and having a good time.Through the efforts of Mr. Samuel J. Nikhazy the college was fortunate to secure an exhibition of talking moving pictures show­ing the various types of instru­ments used in telephonic commu­nication. The equipment was fur­nished by the Bell Telephone Com­pany and the pictures were well portrayed. The presentation of the whole subject matter was inter­woven in an interesting series of 
talking pictures.Our Kiltie band was out again to give the night industries men a big treat and those who were present certainly enjoyed the con­cert. These men seem to be im­bued with the real spirit of enthu­siasm and respond as one when called upon on any occasion.The college elected to office for the year, John F. Simpson, presi­dent; Chester S. Biscup, vice presi­dent; Cornelius A. Blocliinger, sec­retary, and Frank A. Kolsun, treas­urer.A wrestling match and some box­ing bouts furnished a very enter­taining spectacle for those stu­dents who are interested in fistic contests. Many a tense moment was experienced by the audience.Refreshments were served at the close of the evening and the lunch was well received. Everybody left feeling that an enjoyable evening had been spent.
Did you know that Will Rogers is a co-ed? Girls at Wellesley re­
cently elected him an honorary classmate. Lucky Will!__________
My desire to crash the first night industries smoker was as 
diabolical as my purpose was am­biguous. I had been cautioned that any attempt by a non-smoking 
effeminate art student to pass their sacred portals would invite disas­ter. At any rate, I succeeded in gaining entrance to their holy 
sanctum by disguising myself as the four Marx Brothers’ shadow.-As I marched triumphantly past the busy bouncers, whose annoying question, at least to me. "where’s your registration card?” I had 
cleverly evaded, a very sinister force halted me in my tracks. It was my conviction that I was sub­ject to a gas attack. My fears 
were soon allayed, however, when I realized that the “deadly” odor was really the pungent aroma of hundreds of “seventy-five cent” cigars.Entertainment is Good
One truly 'bright feature of the evening was the delightful music 
of the Kiltie Band. The claim of bad acoustics in the gymnasium became discounted as this famous unit rendered spirited and throb­bing music.
The most exciting event was a wrestling match between two enormous bone crushers. Tho 
grunts and groans of these power­ful adversaries as they rolled and twisted each other’ bodies into 
painful distortions were enough to thrill any lover of physical agony 
in others.Several boxing matches were al­so on, the program, and speaking 
in the winsome lingo of his call­ing, the announcer of fights refer­red to the various opponents as the “Second Avenue Art” or the “Seventeenth Street Bum.” The final brawl resulted in an imbroglio 
from which the referee emerged as the loser. It was finally settled 
after several eyes had been retired from sightseeing.
Guests Make a Raid on Food
When the signal to eat was given, there developed one of the most devastating raids on food 
that I have ever witnessed. I ob­served one contented diner hold­ing five bottles of milk, a dozen sandwiches, and a half-peclc of ap­ples besides a .generous share of pickles and olives. He devoured them as if fearing that vitamins A and X would freeze up in the next moment.
Aside from my constant trepida­tion, and the crumpling of certain 
illusions developed by the extrava-; gant exaggerations of evil persons conspiring to keep me away, I real­ly had an enjoyable time. As a mat­
ter of fact I have decided to expi­ate my errors by crashing the next smoker as an old timer. This form of masculine diversion has virtually swept me off my feet with enthusiasm.But there is nothing like a 
good old night arts dance for gay- ety and color. Sorry you can’t be there. ______________
Phi Mu Alpha Calls 
Nine New Members
DWt’gWTD
Students’ Supplies
FORBES STREET, Between Oakland Avenue and Boquet St.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
All Makes 
Sold and Rented
SPECIAL RATES 
TO STUDENTS
Agency 
UNDERWOOD 
ROYAL 
REMINGTON 
—and— 
CORONA 
PORTABLES
DOp”ip"i 
Wlyfc"oOf" haP
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone: ATlantic 0342 
Corona Personal 
Writing Machines
dfaysf.N 
CoOO.,v"mR 
W"v.O haP
Students Urged To 
Continue Effortsthe services of ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positors
Drama Dept. Will 
Present Ibsen’s Play
Continued From Page 1
Now that the final returns are in, and even the late comers have had their noses recorded in the general count, it would seem that registration didn’t get thrown for too bad a loss after all. Of course, the students who are able to get a seat on the inward bound street cars for the first time in years realize that there must have been a drop.
It is refreshing to note that such a large part of the old students are back again, and that their ranks have been reinforced by a healthy contingent of beginners. It is in­teresting to notice that the large majority of the old guard realizes that education is not like securi­ties, and that its value is not affected by economic conditions. (Besides, it’s one of the few un- taxable things left). While men, trained or otherwise, are not in great demand at present, the time will come when those who have had the foresight to keep on plug­ging at their studies will be just that much better prepared to take advantage of the upswing when it does arrive in the possibly near future. And as for the men who allowed present conditions to damp Mifnr ambitions, will their faces be red?
Karsten Bernick—Thomas B. Gor­man, Franklin M. Heller; Mrs. Ber­nick—Sue Bennett, Marjorie M. Eshelman, M. Maraine Haythorn; Olaf Bernick—V ernon Crane; 
Martha Bernick—Janet W. Feather, Mary Hamilton, Ruth A. Horn- beck; Johan Tonnesen—Boyd S. 
Crawford, George A. McCalmon; Lona Hessel—Mary E. Rowles, Helen B. Sisenwain; Hilmar Ton­nesen—Robert S. Gill, Harry S. Schofield; Dina Dorf—Mary M. 
Dingfelder, Audrey L. Kelley, Jane K. Wittmer; Rorlund—William C. 
Beal, Emanuel S. Breakstone; Vigeland—Barry Mulligan, John 
Sollers; Sandstad—William G. Bales, J. Regis Joyce; Krap—Ed­ward J. Palkot; Aune—John G. Dawson, F. Roy Minet; Mrs. Rum- 
mel—Irene J. Cowan, Harriette J. Weiler; I-Iila. Rummel—Viola J. Sayles; Mrs. Holt—Marcia E. 
Leety, Dorothy Neuman; Netta Iiolt—Margaret P. Goldberg; Mrs. 
Lynge—Eloise M. Campbell, Eliza­beth H. Levinger; Jacob—William F. I-Iaviland; Maid—Louise E. 
Amsler.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
Night Arts Workers To 
Report In Thistle Hall
All Night students in the College of Fine Arts who are desirous of 
earning points toward an insignia award are requested to report at Thistle Hall, Saturday afternoon, November 12'at 2:30 p. m.This notice applies to Night Arts students only._______________
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Last Sunday afternoon at a ceremony held in Room 157, Col­lege of Fine Arts, nine men were called to Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonla, men’s musical honorary. The men called are Jack Bramer ’34, James A. Bray, Bernard I. Everson ’34, Walter Geuge ’33, Paul L. Gustaf­son ’34, John W. Ladd ’33, Anthony F. Noce ’33, John L. Powers ’33, and Wilfred R. Uffelman ’33.Twice a year Phi Mu Alpha calls men from the various campus mu­sical organizations. This organi­zation was founded in 1898 at the New England Conservatory of Music, and at the present time there are 54 chapters throughout the country. The Alpha Omega chapter at Carnegie was installed in 1928. Previous to this time, the honorary was known as the Clef.
Thrifty College Men
TELEPHONE HOME of 
bDIp1kL1 Cp.O F.mmx!
THE FALL OF 
T1CONDEROGA
"Nature in the Raw” — as por» 
trayed by F. C. Yohn...inspired by 
that horror'fdlcd dawn when the 
bloodthirsty savages fell on Ethan 
Allan’s gallant "Green Mountain 
Boys” of Fort Ticonderoga fame. 
"Nature in the Raw is Seldom 
Mild”—and raw tobaccos have no 
place in cigarettes.T’S not only thrifty—it’s good common sense to 
telephone home after 8:30 P. M.HoMr%4ro/D BmmsThe folks are at home—your time is free—it’s just 
the time for a family “get-together.”No raw tobaccos in Luckies 
—that’s why they’re so mild
A MAYOR. ISA 
FEMALE HORSEBest of all, at 8:30 P. M. low Night Rates go into 
effect on Station to Station calls. Call home tonight 
and take advantage of the saving. A Station to Station 
caU is for a telephone—not for a specific person. 
You just give the operator your home telephone num­
ber and hold the line.
AND you haven’t heard the half 
of it! The other day Bill Boner 
said the Sphinx were a tribe of peo­
ple living in Egypt!
Won’t some kind friend tell him 
what to do before it’s too late? What 
he needs is a good pipe and good to­
bacco. Of course, the right tobacco is 
necessary—but that’s easy. A recent 
investigation showed Edgeworth to 
be the‘favorite smoking tobacco at 
42 out of 54 leading colleges.
And here’s why: Edgeworth isn’t 
just another smoking tobacco. It’s 
an individual blend of fine old hur­
leys. And you’ll know that difference 
wiiBi the first cool puff of Edgeworth.
Want proof before you buy? Then 
write for a free sample packet. Ad-
j^STTE buy the finest, the 
W very finest tobaccos 
in all the world—but that 
does not explain why folks 
everywhere regard Lucky 
Strike as the mildest ciga­
rette. The fact is, we never 
overlook the truth that 
"Nature in the Raw is 
Seldom Mild”—so these 
fine tobaccos, after proper
aging and mellowing, are 
then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purify­
ing process, described by 
the words—"It’s toasted”. 
That’s why folks in every 
city, town and hamlet say 
that Luckies are such mild 
cigarettes.
“bOT. Oap.Ofi”
That package of mild Luckies
It will be a thrill you’ll want to repeat. So make a 
“date” to call again next week. Charges, of course, 
can always be reversed.
dress Larus & Bro. Co., 120 S. 22d 
St., Richmond, Va. Edgeworth is 
available everywhere in two forms— 
Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed and Edge- 
worth Plug Slice. All 
sizes — 15ji pocket 
package to pound 
humidor tin.
Station to Station Call 
3-Minut« Connection Wherever applicable Federal tax is included. 
Day Rate Night Rate 
. $0.65 $0.35
From Pittsburgh to
Altoona ............Erie ....................Hagerstown, Md.Sharon ..............
Zanesville, OhioGFWORWS DMOdbNG WOethhO

---------------------------------------------------

4TOE CARNEOTE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1932
TODAY THRU WEDNESDAY
Excitement—Suspense— Spooky Mysteries—Thrills—All Set Off by Hysterical Laughter
27,P PinsJAMES SlEAtOM BEN 1Y@N
IRENE PURCELL,
YOU'LL SHOUT WITH 
LAUGHTER—AND SHIVER AND 
SHAKE WITH THRILLS
As this runniest and spookiest ot uh creen frolics unfolds Its mirthful mysteries before you. Uonehcml sleuths on the trail of skilled crooks, with a slip-up at every foot, and n Hugh at every slip.
TODAY!
f.ast Time
Sculpture Students 
Submit Eight Designs
Prof. J. B. Ellis, bead of the 
Department of Sculpture in the 
College of Fine Arts, announces that eight designs have been sub­mitted by students of the depart­ment for judgment in the competi­tive tests held by the Department of Sculpture of the Beaux Arts In­stitute in New York.The design is for a wall foun­tain and is the second program of the year. Programs are' issued at
CARNEGIE TECH JACKETS
WOOL OR CORDUROYDistinctively embroidered in the back with a large Kiltie. Priced very reasonably.
STUDENT VALET SHOP
105 Welsh Hall
regular intervals and sent to the various schools registered in the Institute. Judgment on the sub­mitted designs was passed Mon­day night, November 7. The re­
sults are not yet known. These competitions are open only to students registered in the Depart­ment of Sculpture of the Beaux Arts Institute of design, for the school year 1932-1933.
A bridge game may not be what 
it once used to be. Two profess­ors at Boston University have in­vented a machine that will shuffle 
the cards and deal four bridge hands in four seconds. Wonder if you could stack the cards?
Webster’s New International Dictionary India Paper Edition 
FOR SALE 
GEORGE A. P1LLSBURY Mayflower 7629 623 Ivy Street
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST
Specializing in Examining Eyes and 
Furnishing Glasses.
‘‘Special Student Rates”
413 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
You Can’t Be Popular . . . 
If You’re a Poor Dancer
We Will Tench You in 3 Private 
Lessons—Only $5 
Expert Instruction
JACQUES SCHOOL 
OF DANCING
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS 
Mayflower 7891 Beginners’ Classes—Monday and 
Friday Evenings, 8:30 o’clock. 
Social Dances—With Orchestra— 
Thursday and Saturday Evenings, 8:30 o’clock.
In Uio Heart of Tech and PUt
artie (ttanvecjie Sfattati
PJIONE MAYFLOWER 2000
Carnegie’s Honorary Cadet Officers
—World Wide Photo.This group of Carnegie co-eds was selected by the R. O. T.C. unit as their honorary officers for the coming year. The girls will be presented with chevrons and military commissions at the Military Ball. They are. left to right: Captain Marion McNary, Captain Louise Jessop, Captain Jean Douglas, Major Gloria Kloos, Colonel Ruth Nye, Major Rebecca Linn, Captain Kay Winslow, Captain Evelyn Gamble, and Captain Ann Warden.
After Olllco Hours Call
Editor-In-Chief - ____ Schcnlcy 9430 Sports Editor—------Schcnlcy 9D80Business Manairer _..................Hazel 1M73 Plnld Editors......................Schcnlcy 238Ü
Published weekly during the collose» year by undergraduates of Camodo Inntltuto of Technology. Entored In the Pittsburgh Post Ofllco as second-class mattar.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF---------------------------------------------------------------------------------IOIIN W. LA 1)1)
BUSINESS MANAGER--------------------------------------------------------------------IULIUS HALPERNNEWS EDITOR___________________________________ELIZABETH I’RELLEIt
ATHLETIC EDITOR_______________________________________„JOSEPH C. HKONBONPLAID EDITOR---------------------------------------------------------------------EDWARI) E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editors: Christine Lolj'hou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Allison Exchange Editors: Marjorie Doughorty
Harry 1 lower Ruth PhillipsAssignment Editor: Anthony Camvalo
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE John Hilt//., Edmund McCormick, Alleo Honzl, Loretta Conlln.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cacchione, Loretta Conlln, Alleo Honzl, 
John Hilt/., Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jac(|Uo Mlnnotto.
SPECIAL WRITERS: Mary McCullough, Stanton Williams.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Kloos, Women's Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes, 
James Halferty. Jerry Hanson, Clifton Carr.
PLAID STAFF: James H. Sansonettl, News Editor; Frank Canso!, A. N. GIjhhC. UN
ADVERTISING STAFF: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; Morton Carmine, William McKenna, Edgar Moyer, Jerome E. Kappel.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Fingios», Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro­
senberg, Albert Pryeo-Jones, Abo Leipzig.
REPORTERS: Margaret Griffin. Veronica Kloos, Anna Ladd, Thelma Shelley, Ger-
triido Ilreakstono, Jayne Henderson, Poter Paulus, Harold Baer, Jannotto Black, Marian Malakoir, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, Jane Miller, Roy Mlnet, Vir­
ginia Siegel, William Landsberg, Jano Livingston, Davison IronB,
TYPISTS: Lucillo Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
The Welfare Drive 
The Student Council is again appealing to the students to 
contribute to the Allegheny County Welfare Fund. Yesterday 
the drive on the canrpus got under way and will continue until 
November 23.
To many students it seems paradoxical that such a drive 
should be conducted on the campus this year, since many , of 
them arc finding it difficult to pay their, college expenses. 
But in reality, there is no time like the present when the stu­
dents should be more willing to contribute to this very worth­
while cause, regardless how.small the contribution might be.
The Welfare Budget for 1933 has been set at $2,480,160. 
This includes $300,000 for the Allegheny County Emergency As­
sociation to meet emergency relief needs which cannot be pro­
vided from public funds. A. bulletin issued by the Welfare 
Fund Committee,states that “the budget of the fund'itself, in­
cluding year round administration and campaign expense is 3.5 
per cent of this total.“As a result of a survey of operating costs in family agen­
cies handling unemployment relief, the Welfare Fund has 
reached the figure, corroborated by an independent study, of 
approximately 8 per cent as the administrative cost ol: hand­
ling unemployment relief . . . With a deficit of some $260,000 
being carried forward, the Fund cannot incur any additional 
deficit during 1933, without facing the crisis of an actual cash 
shortage involving the borrowing of funds or the abandonment 
ol! programs . . .”
The campus Y. M. C. A. operating funds for 1933 will be 
governed entirely by the total amount subscribed to the Wel­
fare Drive throughout the county, since the “Y” Drive is a 
part of this drive. This is just one of the reasons why the stu­
dents should feel that they arc contributing to a worthwhile 
cause. In times ol! depression, welfare organizations perform a 
service to humanity that is unparalleled by any other agency. 
The students should not feel that bocause their homes are not 
in Allegheny County they need not contribute, for they do live 
nine months out ol! every twelve in the county.
It is commendable that the Student Council should under­
take the responsibility ol' conducting such a drive on the cam­
pus. Let it bo hoped that the students will do their share in 
making the drive a succoss.
An Important Amendment.
One ol! the most important things that the Interfraternity 
Council has done this year is the passing ol' an amendment to 
the new rushing rules that provides for the consideration of 
all ruRhing-rulo infractions by a Regulations Committee, which 
is to bo composed ol' three non-partisan faculty members and 
throe In tori! rater n ity Council members. This is the first time in 
a good many years that the Council has endeavored to provide 
for what should be a satisfactory and foolproof means of deal­
ing with infractions, lioretoforo, the machinery of the Council 
used in dealing with infraction charges has been ridiculously 
5 n ad equa to,
TJndcr the new ruling, all power of decision of eases aris­
ing out ol! the interpretation and application ol! the rules will 
be vested in the Regulations Committee. In all cases, this com­
mittee’s decisions will be accepted by the Council. Another 
provision which should help to better the cause ol! enforcement 
states that a decision must be reached within one month alter 
the date the charge is brought before the Regulations Com­
mittee.
ALUMNI NEWS
WOMEN’S CLAN OF PHILADEL­PHIAThe first meeting of the season 
was held recently in the home of Mrs. Robert E. Lees, Norbertli, Pa. Evelyn I-Ield Bürgin, A ’27 and Nancy Milne, A ’27 were accepted 
as members.
The following officers were elected: President, Mrs. Robert E. Lees; secretary-treasurer, R. Leah 
Rotham.A tentative schedule of meetings for the coming year was planned: November 12, Charlotte Watson Trautman, 933 Cornell avenue, Drexel Hill; December 10, Louise 
Irvin I-Iirsch, 726 Turner avenue, Drexel Hill; January, Helen Reed Mutch, 134 W. Logan street, Ger­mantown: February, Phyllis Mc- Marlin Fetzer, 40-1 Tasker street, Ridley Park; March, Joint meet­ing, to bo announced: April, Ethol Anderson Smith, 234 W. Walnut Lane, Germantown.The clan Is anticipating an active, Intorost.lng sonson and ox- tonda a moat cordial invitation to all Carnegie people in Philadelphia and vicinity.
PHILADELPHIA CLANThe Clan had a mooting prior to the Temple-Curnoglo football Kamo at which slxly-two Carnegie alumni wore present. The group Included graduates from Reading and At­
lantic City as well as those from the vicinity of Philadelphia.
CINCINNATI CLAN,
Plans for the Cincinnati Clan meeting to be held the week-end of the Xavier-Carnegie football game center around a dinner to be held at the Alms Hotel after the game. Tickets will be sold be­tween the halves in order to de­termine how many will attend the dinner. M.r. Clarence Overend, Graduate Manager, the Team, Coaches, and others will be pres-1 ent. Tickets for the game in the special Carnegie section may be |
obtained by writing Mr. N. E. Browne, Schmidt Building, Cincin­nati, Ohio. Tickets are $1.50 each including tax. The following are officers of the clan: President,Mr. E. F. Ball, 328 Avery Lane; secretary, Mr. M. C. Scliwerba, 1504 First National Bank Building, care of Worthington Pump and Machinery corporation.
PROGRAM FOR THE SIXTH AN­NUAL HOME-COMING
Friday, November 18
11:00 A. M.—Registration, This­tle Hall (entrance at back of gym.) 
Please register as soon as you arrive on the Campus.12:45 P. M.—Members of the class of 1912, and their husbands and wives, will be the guests of Dr. Baker at luncheon in the Presi­dent’s Office, Administration Hall.Luncheon for all other return­ing alumni will be served in the Main Dining Room, Carnegie Inn, Woodlnwn avenue, at. 12:45 p. m. A charge not exceeding 50 cents will ho made. No tickots are no- cossnry.
2:00 P. M.—Presentation of re­union class plates to bo added to pattern begun by 190s Class in main corridor of Administration Hull. Dr. linker to welcome alumni; honorary societies aud students will participate.
2:30-4:00 P. M.—Members of Ad­ministration and Faculty will be in their olfices to rocolvo alumni.
4:00 P. M.—Alumnae to be the guests of Dean Green at tea In tlje Women’s Club Room, Gymnasium Building.8:15 P. M.—Play by the Depart­ment of Drama, Little Theater,.COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS Saturday, November 19Saturday morning left open for special reunion parties. Watch Tartan for announcements of in- | dividual group plans. 2:00 p. m., Carnegie Tech vs. Pitt. Tickets j $2.75 each. 7:00 p. m., Cabaret
time a rusliee will signify hie choice by presenting himself at the house of bis choice. From that time on, all men so pledged shall wear pledge buttons that shall be strictly honored by all fraternities, 
unless the pledge is announced ir­regular by the Interfraternity Council.
Section 12—Unless a rushee pre­sents him«6lf at the house of his choice at 10:00 a. m. or after, Sun­day, December 11, no fraternity shall have communication with that rushee until 8:30 a. m., Monday, December 12, after which time open rushing in regard to fall reg­istrants shall prevail.
Section 13—The rushing of the 
second semester registrants shall begin Wednesday, April 19, and shall be subject to regulations made by the Interfraternity Coun­cil.Section 14—a. Before 4:20 p. m., Wednesday, November 30, no new registrant shall be Invited by any member of any fraternity to any function given off campus.b. Before 4:20 p. m.,, Wednes­day, November 30, no new regis­trant shall be invited to, by, or at­tend with, any member of any fra­ternity any functon given on the campus, except those functions given for the orientation of fresh­men.c. Before 8:30 a. m., Friday, De­cember 2, no new registrant shall attend with any member of any fraternity any function given off campus.d. After 8:30 a. m., Friday, De­cember -2, no new registrant shall attend with any member of any fraternity any function given off campus, except those functions given in fraternity houses.e. A rushee will not be al­lowed to attend any function off the campus with a fraternity man. In other words, fraternity men are not to entertain freshmen at any place except the fraternity house. 
This includes buying food for the freshmen on or off the campus, ex­cept at a fraternity house or lunch on school days.f. Lunch hour Is to be defined as the period from 11:00 a. m. to 2:00 p. m. each day.
In short, this section means that fraternities are to do no contacting before the contacting period be­gins, and no rushing before the rushing period begins.
Section 15—Each fraternity and every member of each fraternity agrees to observe these regulations in spirit as well as in letter, and also agrees to report at ,once any infraction thereof to the investiga­tion committee of the Interfrater­nity Council. Furthermore, the un­
dergraduate members of every fra­ternity agree to use their influence with their friends, pledges, alumni, and members of other chapters to see that they observe the spirit and letter of these rules.Section 1G—All power of de­cision of cases arising out of the Interpretation and application of these regulations shall be vested In the Regulations Committee. Any fraternity guilty of the Infrac­tion of any of these rules shall be 
penalised $50 for each infraction. All charges shall bo put in writing by the fraternity making the charge and shall be presented to the chairman of the regulations committee consisting of throe fac­ulty members and threo council representatives, whoso duty (chair­man) It shall bo to seo to It that the charge shall come to trial at the earliest possible date, and that a decision bo handed down within a period of ono month from the dato the charge Is brought before the committee. The decision of the committee will bo accepted by the Council.Section 17—If any fraternity is found guilty of breaking any of these rules botweon 1:00 a. m., Sunday, December 11, and 8:30 a. in., Monday, December 12, the pen­alty shall be a fine of $50 plus the loss of the privilege of competing in intramural and interfraternity competition for the remainder of the school year.Section 18—Voting and non-vot- ing members of the Interfraternity Council shall bo required to post a bond of $50 with the treasurer of the Couucil within a week after the adoption of these rushing rules.Section 19—All publicity regard­ing rushing shall be handled by the Interfraternity Council.Section 20—Each fraternity shall be limited to one orchestra dance during rushing season.Section 21—The terms “rushee" and “Freshman" refer to new reg­istrants only. Upperclassmen who have been in school for one semes­ter are not subject to these rules.Section 22—The term “campus" refers to the campus as described in the Handbook with the addition of Slcibo Inn.Section 23—This set of rules shall be in force until the adoption of a new set of rules by the Inter­fraternity Council.
Section 24—This set of rules is officially adopted by the Interfra­ternity Council on Novetnber 5, 1932,________________
“Y” Cabinet Sponsors 
Religious Discussions
Father Delaney of St. Agnes’ 
Church will be the guest speaker nt the Y. W, C. A. dinner tomorrow evening. This talk Is ono of a 
.series of rollglous discussions sponsored by this organization. All Catholic girls on the campus are especially Invited and urged 
to attend tills mooting.The dinner will bo served at 6 
o'clock in the Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall. The price is 30 cents.
Dinner Dance, Ball Room, Hotel Schenley. Bridge. Price $2.00 per person. Informal. For C. I. T. Alumni and- their friends.Tickets for all home-coming events may be ordered at the Alumni Office. Check and stamped, addressed envelope must accom­pany all orders. If football tickets are to be registered a charge of 25 cents additional is made.
Tau Beta Pi Interviews 
Prospective Members
Tau Beta Pi, national engineer­
ing honorary, interviewed pros­
pective members at a meeting Sunday, October 30.The society, which selects its members from the College of En­gineering, holds its pledging in the spring and the fall. To be eligible to Tau Beta Pi, a man must be the highest in the sophomore class, in the upper eighth of the junior class, or the upper quarter of the senior class; he must also have been in school for two semesters before election. Besides high scholastic standing, a man must 
take part in exjtra-curricular ac­tivities.
English Ways
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER
It is customary for the teacher of a class in English composition to make for the students the dis­tinctions between the various levels of usage in our language. The practice enables the students to have a clearer view of their ob­jectives in the matter of good usage in language. They will find the highest level, called the liter­ary standard, practically beyond (heir reach or desire of attainment. It is an ideal; The effort to reach it may produce an emasculated product, a halting speaker or life­less writer. The effort however, to attain the highest ideal might be valuable in that it would qualify a writer in the next level of good usage, that which is generally at­tained by educated people. These people are not specialists in lin­guistics or purity of diction, and they are content with a fairly ac­curate use of words and their com­
binations as prescribed by gram­mar, logic, and good taste. At vari ous times, however, these same educated people may desire a usage of language that is freer, more flexible, and fresher than that which would come within the range of the foregoing levels. An occa sion might demand something more informal, more conversational, less dressed up. For any of these rea­sons, therefore, a writer might defscend to the colloquial level. Here is the use of languages in per­sonal letters, of the family circle, rather than of the public stage. It allows contractions, . the inter­change of “can” and “may,” of “shall” and “will.” It has even gone so far as to include the an­ticipatory though ungrammatical “who” in such expressions as “Who are you voting for?” or ‘Who was the lady I saw you with?” It is a usage that cuts corners in ex­pression. It insures the impressive conveyance of thought by natural­ness, ease, and directness. In military usage the colloquial form of the bulky and awkward sentry 
challenge “Who goes there?” be­comes the crisp “Wlio’s there?” It is a usage based on information, not on ignorance or illiteracy. It 
contains no “conscious offense against some standard of propriety in language usage.” It has in com­mon with the first levels men­tioned the fundamental purpose of all language, the clear and effective conveyance of thought. Below 
these three levels one should ven­ture with caution.
Point System For
Activities Revised
ConUnued From Page 1 
House Presidents.,Intersority Council President.
Junior Class Social Chairman.Margaret Morrison Senate Secretary. 
Margaret Morrison Senate Treasurer. 
Pleba Regulations Committee Chairman. Tartan—Alumni Editor.Tartan—Exchange Editor.
Thistle—Assistant Editor.Thistle—-Assistant Art Editor. 
Tri-Publications—Managing Editor. 
Women’s Athletic Association Secretary- Treasurer.
Y. W. C. A. Vice President; Big and Little Sister Chairman.CLASS III
•Class President.Carnival Week Secretary.Glee Club—Assistant Manager.
Guild Board Officers (other than pres­ident).
Intersororlty Council Secretary.
Junior Prom Treasurer.Puppet—Art Editor.
Scholarship Organization—Treasurer. Sorority President.Tartan—Associate Editor.Tartan—Junior Editor.
Thistle—Organization Editor—(Feature Editor.Women’s Activities Point System Com­mittee Members.
Women’s Athletic Association Board Members.
Y. W. C. A. Cabinet Members (other than president).*Y. W. C. A. Treasurer.CLASS IV 
•Class Officers (other than listed). 
Department Clubs’ Officers.Dormitory Council—Secretary-Treasurer. 
Dormitory Council—Vice President.
Glee Club—Secretary-Treasurer.Guild Board Members.Honorary Officers.
Intorsorority Council Officers (other than listed).Intersorority Council Representatives. •Junior Prom Committee Members. 
Puppet Literary Editor.Scholarship Benefit Organization — Ap­
pointed officers.Sorority Officers (other than listed). Student Council—Assistant Secretary. 
Student Council—Senior Representative. 
Tartan Reporters.Thistle—Advisory Editor.CLASS V
Big and Little Sister Movement Com­
mittee members.House Officers (other than president). Glee Club—Assistant Librarian.
Plebe Regulations Committee Members. 
Teknon Officers.OFFICERS AUTOMATICALLY HELD BECAUSE OF ANOTHER OFFICE 
OFFICES AUTOMATICALLY HELD BECAUSE OF ANOTHER OFFICE Big and Little Sister Movement Chair­
man—Vice President Y. W. C. A.Student Council Representative — Arts 
Senate. Vice President.Student Council Representative—Senior 
Class President.Women’s Scholarship Benefit Organiza­tion Committee—Presidents and ' Represen­
tatives of all Women’s Organizations.0—Major Changes Made.
"TMl believe you love 
that old pipe better 
than you do me!”
o is made 
solely for pipes.
Granger is not a 
cigarette tobacco.
Granger is made of 
White Burley tobacco 
-the best tobacco for 
pipes. Just try it !
BIRDIES—The much published pictures of Carnegie’s Betty Cadets evoked the usual admiring sighs aud gleeful giggles from the groups of students who ran across them in last Friday’s papers. But those whose only glimpse of the girls in uniform was obtained in this manner saw only half the picture. It was a cold, cold day and the poor soldier boys who had con­tributed their hats and coats to the cause found the shivers creep­ing up and down their spines faster and faster. Finally, in desperation, one shivering lad donned a coat which a fair co-ed had cast aside and the 
rush Avas on. The photographers had no trouble at all getting the girls to smile at the birdie.
WRONG NUMBER—
Poor Bill McKenna just can’t keep his tele­phone numbers straight. The other night he called Jack Morris and to his surprise a familiar feminine voice answered the phone. A rather lengthy conversation followed and Bill finally ex­plained how sleepy he was and how he was going to bed early, in fact he thought he’d go right to bed. Imagine his embarrassment when the same young lady detected him dancing in his sleep only a few hours later.
OBSERVATIONS—Something smart and jazzy in the line of win­dow washing costumes on the Theta Xi’s front roof. A pair of dirty gray corduroy pants and a pungent green slllc pajama upper.Those four D. U. pins are back in the house 
all ready for rushing season.The apple core problem reached a new high at the Friday afternoon one acts in the Union 
last week.The dramats have taken to playing pussy wants a corner and post office again.Sorority rushing season’s silence period is re­sponsible for those worried looks the girls are wearing nowadays, but It’ll all be smiles tomor­row afternoon.That ladder the workmen parked in the middle of (he drive around Machinery hall between the famous road bumpers caused many a student that uses the new parking space to Avonder if the old superstition about going under a ladder held 
good if one rides instead of walks.
THEY TELL US—Igor Karassilt, Aero grad now splashing around in the water tank in Machinery hall, will tell you that the way to secure a night’s lodging in the calaboose is to find an Irish police sergeant and try out your Irish brogue on him . . . His pal, Miles Kinley, is taking several hours daily
in music appreciation ... A couple of Aeronauts sublimate their flying desires by riding up and down elevators ... It took a dramat to think up 
that water-can cure for reluctant plebes . . . Wonder if Louise Amsler is writing any of that interesting type of poetry? . . . Poor Kay Wliooley has to go to Talahasse, Florida, this week-end to the women's government convention . . . The senior secretaríais are having a break­fast and they are going to use their freshman rogues’ gallery pictures for place cards . . . wonder how many will starve?
QUOD ERAT DEMONSTRANDUM—In a plebe Chein. Lab. class an instructor wrote a warning on the blackboard for the chil­dren not to pour I-I20 into the H2S04. One of the less gullible adolescents disagreed and did vice versa, the result was a machine gun-lilce spattering and a loud yell. The instructor rush­ed to the board, grabbed a piece of chalk, and scribbled under the warning—Q. E. D.
LOVE IN A LONDON FOG—The fact that everyone was dancing in a fog didn’t in the least depress the spirits of the throng that attended the Doc Carter Cross-Coun­try Dance at Thistle Hall Saturday. The Varsity team duplicated its performance of the morning and turned in a perfect score for the evening event,- even Assistant Coach Price was on hand. An innovation in the form of pass-out checks supplied to all those who entered did a world of good in bettering smoking conditions.
OH, WELL!—After the. Dragon dinner the other night, four of the boys went over to see Brother Fergus rest­ing in the hospital just prior to his latest opera­tion. Little is remembered of the visit but that it was short a n d very snappy. In 1’ a ct, To m 
claims he only said six words and the next thing they lc new the boys were right in the midst of the Beta Pi treasure hunt after having picked up a clue at the Oakland police station.
WHO’D EVER GUESS?—Co-captain George “Clark” Kavel gets all 
duked out after each game .... lie even uses perfume. Yoo lioo!—oh! Georg-ous ... If your children bawl, call on Harry (quarterback) Mc­Curdy, who will panic ’em with some of his sma 11-town magic . . . Harry’s latest accomplish­ment is pushing half a dollar through a hole the size of a cent ... It is rumored that Red Stuart will never again grab I-Iook Sample’s apple­sauce . . . especially when Hooks has a knife 
in his lunch hooks.
Load it pinch by pinch; 
pack it tight; strike a 
match—Granger smokes 
cool and lasts longer.10c
YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODI
