TARJAN
Trustees Discuss Rhodesia,
The Executive Committee of the Trus­
tees met on Monday, March 21. Among the 
items discussed were reappointments and 
promotions, construction of the new dorm­
itory, and upcoming retirements.
A complete list of professors who have 
been reappointed and/or promoted is avail­
able from the TARTAN office, and will be 
printed in the first issue of the TARTAN 
next semester.
The Committee voted on a recommend­
ation of President Cyert and Vice President 
for Business Affairs, Dr. Richard Van 
Horn, to approve CMlFs application to 
Housing and Urban Development of HEW 
for a 40-year loan. The loan will provide 
$1 million for construction of a new dorm­
itory, and will be repayable at the rate of 
3%.
Three professors will be retiring at the 
end of the 1976-77 academic year. They 
are Lawrence Carra, Professor and Head of 
the Drama Department; Gerhard Derge, 
Professor of Metallurgy and Materials 
Science; and A. Fred Sochatoff. Thomas S. 
Baker Professor of English.
Professor Carra is a distinguished theatre 
director and co-author of Fundamentals of 
Play Direction, now in its third edition. He 
has directed more than 350 plays, musicals, 
and operas; has produced for ABC-TV; and 
he has directed for Pittsburgh’s Civic Light 
Opera from 1959-1963. In 1976, Professor 
Carra produced the Carnegie-Mellon 
Theatre Company, a summer repertory 
group. Professor Carra was instrumental in 
establishing a program of musical theater in 
CFA in 1976. He has been at CMU for 21 
years.
Professor Gerhard Derge has an A.B. in
Chemistry from Amherst College, and a 
Ph.D. in Physical Chemistry from Prince­
ton University. His primary areas of re­
search have been kinetics and mechanisms 
of slag-metal reactions, constitution and 
properties of non-aqueous melts, and elec­
trochemical and diffusion measurements in 
such melts. Professor Derge has also been 
editor of Metallurgical Transactions, and 
Transactions of the Metallurgical Society, 
two highly respected journals of the pro­
fession. He has been at CMU for 43 years.
Dr. Sochatoff has a B.A. from the Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania, and a Ph.D. from
by Joan Konkle
“I'm very enthusiastic about Student 
Senate,” says David Roussos, newly elected 
chairperson. “Next year there will be co­
operation among student organizations 
such as has never been seen.”
The job of the chairperson is to run 
Senate meetings and to make sure the con­
stitution is carried out. Though he has no 
influence over what issues Senate concerns 
itself with, Roussos feels that there is a lot 
he can do to improve how Senate runs.
One of his responsibilities is to conduct 
meeting without involving himself in dis­
cussions, which is a task he says is difficult. 
“1 didn’t realize how much of a hassle this 
is, because I have a constituency to repre­
sent—with my responsibility to be objec­
tive at meetings. I’m obligated to get in on 
discussions at the committee level where I 
can participate.”
To increase Senate’s efficiency, Roussos
New Dorm
the University of Pittsburgh. He has taught 
Latin at the Arnold School and at Shady- 
side Academy, the classics, especially the 
Satiricon of Petronius, drama, and Shakes­
peare. In 1961, he was the first recipient of 
the Ryan Teaching Award for effective 
teaching. Dr. Sochatoff has had articles 
published in Carnegie Magazine, Classical 
Outlook, Modem Journalism, and The 
Classical Journal. He has been at CMU for 
29 years, and has been awarded the title of 
Professor of English, Emeritus.
Non-academic employees who are re­
tiring are Stephen Russell, Dennis Strong, 
continued cmi page 9
intends to institute agenda planning ses­
sions before meetings. Having all the com­
mittee chairpersons and ex-officio mem­
bers of the committees get together to 
discuss current issues should make meet­
ings run more anoothly.
Roussos feels that sometimes Senators 
don’t realize the responsibilities they have, 
and so their attendance is not regular. He 
intends to change this situation “by using 
the power the constitution gives me to 
force people to attend.”
He admits that attendance may have 
been poor in the past “because people 
might have been discouraged about the 
way Senate was operating.” He plans to 
find ways of improving Senate so that peo­
ple will want to be involved. Accordmg to 
Roussos, “1 want to make this an ideal 
Senate. If you try to do this, people who 
are interested will stay and will enjoy it, 
too.”
insidenews
Spring Carnival pictures and stories (pages
4-7).
CMU’s Jazz Ensemble travels to Quinnipiac 
for the 10th Annual Quinnipiac College 
Intercollegiate Jazz Festival (page 8). 
Graduate Record Examinations have a new 
analytical skills section, marking the first 
change in the GRE format since the 1940s 
(page 8).
CMU’s own Concord conflict: Design stu­
dents are unhappy about a new assignment 
they will be given at the end of this semes­
ter (page 8).
folioIssue Ten: The Future of CMU (page 11).
entertainment
The Concert — Pure Praire League and 
Joan Armatrading shared a quality show 
(page 19).
Scotch N’ Soda — Something Feudal was 
distracting for many reasons (page 19).
Undergraduate Art Show — David Lenker, 
Brain Richmond: Best Works in Show 
(page 20).
sports
Concrete Canoe-Wins four firsts, two 
seconds, and deagn at Princeton, “Grand 
Champions” (page 26).
Men’s Tennis Team-beat Bethany and pve
Case best battle ever (page 27).
Roussos Looks Ahead
April 26.1977 Volume 77, Number 24 Carnegie—Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
PKA Wins With 2:17.8
day’s staging was good, as it would turn 
out that not a drop of rain was to fall on 
the day’s proceedings.
Where as the weather and course con­
dition were adequate, the races themselves 
started on a sour note that was to continue 
throughout the competition. In heat one 
ZBT “B” ran against CIA “B”. In the flats 
at the beginning of freeroll the ZBT buggy 
was mounted by an unknown white canine 
and the tempo of Sweepstakes ’77 was set. 
As it turned out the starter and the timers 
did not have their signals straight and as a 
result the first heat was declared a “non- 
run” with ZBT and CIA getting a second 
attempt later in the competition.
Heat 2- The second heat progressed 
smoothly with CIA “A” running against 
PKA “C” and Pi Lamda Phi getting over 
top of hill 2 and into freeroll first. 
Despite the tremendous shove of Pika’s hill
2 man E. “The Chute” Reed, CIA led 
throughout freeroll and it wasn’t until the 
3 pick-up point that the lead changed 
hands with PKA’s driver Don Cianeili 
passing the CIA buggy on the qjurb side. 
The daring maneuver only cost PKA some 
time as their hill 3 pickup man was 
“squeezed out” by his own buggy and the 
curb. CIA gained ground throughout the 
back kills passing up Pika and eventually 
won the heat in 2:30.5 with PKA second at 
2:37.2 and Pi Lamda Phi third at 2:50.7.
Heat 3- This heat saw BTP “B” simply 
outclass the SIX “B” and Kappa Sigma 
Shamlian continued on page 25
PKA beats odds with 
third consecutive win
Accidents, rain 
plague races
by Joe Bunda
Sweepstakes once again has come and 
gone and although the awards have been 
handed out many involved will wonder for 
years to come, what would have happened 
if...? It was the Pi Kappa Alpha team who 
beat the odds and literally accomplished in 
blazing fashion what many thought to be 
an impossibility, a third consecutive first 
place finish. As was expected the old rec­
ord of 2:193 set by PKA two years ago 
was bettered considerably by both this 
years PKA squad and the brothers of BTP.
The weather at 9:00 am Friday morn­
ing was certainly not what one might call* 
perfect, but it was acceptable. The sun 
rose, we assume, but was not to be seen as 
mother nature provided us with a dense 
covering of clouds. The temperature for 
the races varied from the high sixties to 
mid seventies over the approximate three 
hours that it took for completion of the 
preliminary heats. There was a fair crowd 
on hand but one would think that the 
weather discouraged more than a handful
of potential viewers. All in all the first «1. D. Harper bringing home PKA's third consecutive Sweepstakes victory

---------------------------------------------------

Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Auld Lang Syne
This issue marks the end of Tartan publication for 
1976-77. We congratulate those of you who will leave 
in May with the skins of many sheep, and wish you the best 
of the real world, For you, and for returning regulars, we 
summarize the year by presenting a few “laurels” and 
throwing a few “darts" at deserving segments of the univer­
sity community. May your finals be swift and painless before 
a pleasant and profitable summer.
Laurel: to CMU’s new undergraduate interdisciplinary pro­
grams and department: Business in the Arts (Arts 
Management Program), Art in Business (Graphic Arts 
Management), and Social Responsibility in Engineering 
(EPP), am ong others.
Dart: To those departments and that college which, after 
years of search, still have no heads or dean. They can 
have no direction, and as units cannot progress; rather, 
in stagnating, they regress.
Laurel: to the College of Fine Arts, for continuation and ex­
pansion of their “Visiting Professional” series. Gradu­
ates of this college have no fixed procedure for obtain­
ing jobs; through this program they can become aware 
of opportunities and new possibilities.
Dart: to the no-show Design Show and its cause — insuffi­
cient gallery space on campus.
Laurel: to CMU sportsmen and women. Participation in­
creased this year in both intercollegiate and intramural 
sports, and varsity teams were big winners in the PAC.
Dart: to the Boards of Election Procedure of a few student 
organizations.
Laurel: to those organizations for which 1976-77 was a 
“bumper”year in both participation and effectiveness.
Dart: to bad plumbing and the demolishment of grand
pianos.
Laurel: to the management and staff of Physical Plant, for
fine service under severe budgetary constraints, and for 
patience.
Dart: to all departments hiring “three-year professors”
to avoid hiring and paying full-time, tenured faculty. 
Many of these instructors receive poverty-level, pre­
tenure salaries; in a glutted market with no union re­
presentation, they cannot complain. Also, to those 
groups which discriminate against non-Work Study 
students.
Laurel: to the administration and trustees of the university, 
for their efforts to maintain quality as well as solvency 
and independence.
Dart: to those responsible for the parking dilemma.
Laurel: to WRCT, now broadcasting 24 hours and planning 
to extend their Hstenership by strengthening their
Dart: to all campus publications and other media. We
have yet to resolve our respective responsibilities for 
getting the right information to the right people and 
for promoting discussion among members of the cam­
pus community.
Laurels or Darts: to those we've missed. Please award them, 
by proxy\ to yourselves. We respect your judgment.
Darts and Laurels: to ourselves. We’ve worked hard to bring
you what you need, but we could have worked harder. 
We’re giving ourselves another chance.
Paula Maris Shu bock 
Editor-in-Chief
Want to keep up with the news at CMU? 
Subscribe now, or keep this coupon and 
send it to us when you've relocated. 
Only $10 (cost of postage and handling)
President Cyert practicing for commencement ceremony.Letters
THE GOOD. . .
Editor:
Congratulations on an excellent 
editorial. You’ve expressed a view­
point that I, and I am sure, many 
others at this school have long 
held; that is, that a person who 
holds a college degree should be 
able to express himself in his 
native language articulately. There 
is no reason why a student should 
come out of a university after 
four years and still sound like he 
is in fifth grade. I agree that the 
problem connot be shunted off 
onto the high schools. The Univer­
sity must take some sort of 
action.
I only hope that that some­
where, some administrator listens 
and does something to remedy 
this worsening situation.
Deborah Brannick 
Thistle Editor-in-Chief
AND THE BAD
Editor:
I found your April 19 editorial 
on written communication diffi­
cult to read. Paul J. Karol
Chemistry
Shall I take a course, or should 
you?—Editor.
WHO NEEDS LOUNGES
Editor:
Numerous letters have ap­
peared in past issues of the 
TARTAN protesting the removal 
of lounges from the dormitory 
floors. The residents on our floor 
are some of the lucky few still 
possessing a fully furnished lounge. 
It was partially converted from a 
triple back to a lounge last year. 
The part that wasn’t removed was 
the door complete with lock. 
Because of this “added conve­
nience,” some students have taken 
to sleeping in the lounge under 
the privacy of the door and lock. 
As a result other floor residents, 
doing late night studying or visit­
ing, are found sitting at various 
points in the hallway. (A grand 
total of five last night.)
Why do these few students 
have the right to lock out other 
residents on the floor? Isn’t this 
the same idea behind the protest 
made against housing? Or is this 
why students feel that they need 
the lounges—for their private ren­
dezvous.Still a virgin.. .
I couldn’t get into the lounge.
WORKERS, REVOLT
Editor:
I have been an employee of 
CMU for 35 years. I have always 
strived to be dedicated, reliable, 
loyal, and consider my job to be 
a sincere and important business 
arrangement. I know that any 
organization or institution must 
be governed by set rules and regu­
lations, which I wholeheartedly 
respect. However, I have through 
the years been flexible when occa­
sions have arisen that required my 
services at times other than my 
regular sche.dule included. I was 
always willing to do my share to 
help in making things work out 
smoothly.
Recently, I made reservations 
for a much deserved vacation 
tour, that I feel will not only be 
enjoyable, but will also have much 
to do toward my personal self- 
improvement,after a hard winter 
and another year of work. I, of 
course, paid the required de­
posit, (there is some question as 
to my being able to get a full re­
fund), only to be told by my su­
periors that I will not be allowed 
to take advantageof this planned
TARTAN
Volume 77April 26, 1977Number 24
Editor in Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Folio Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
Paula Maris Shubock 
David G. Roussos 
Joe Loughran 
Sherry Siegel 
Casey Childs 
Jeff Zaslow 
Tom Binnie 
V.R.V. Raimarían
Production Head: Vivian Kerstein
Staff Photographers: Skip Brazelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tad Dickenson, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1977 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481, Business Offices: Skibo 52, (4>2) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS^CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
Designers, Artists: Accepting graduate
school applications for September; profes­
sional career preparation in Communica­
tion Design and Design Applications, 
M.F.A. degree.
College of Fine and Applied Arts 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
One Lomb Memorial Drive 
Rochester, New York 14623 
Another program: For the artist, perma­
nent certification earned in one year for 
public school teaching, M.S.T. degree in 
Art Education.
POST-COLLEGE SURVIVAL. "Intelligent
Car-Buying" is the topic of the final lecture 
and discussion of SARC's Financial Plan­
ning Seminars. Given by a successful CMU 
alumnus, the program begins at 7:30 pm 
tomorrow, April 27, in the Hunt Library 
Multi-Purpose Room (entrance on Frew 
St.). Refreshments will be served. Free and 
open to the campus community.
Registrations are being taken for the
spring/summer sessions of the Sq. Hill 
Poetry Workshop. Meetings are held on
alternate Saturdays at 1:30 pm in the Sq. 
Hill Branch of Carnegie Library, corner 
Forbes and Murray Avenues. Next Meeting 
April 30th. For further information call 
521-1540.
SUMMER JOBS: will be posted in the
Financial Aid Office beginnning May 2. 
Any student interested in a Work-Study 
'position, either on campus or elsewhere in 
Pennsylvania, should contact Margaret Ann 
Whittington in the Student Employment 
Office, Warner Hall 212, beginning May 2.
Ascent of Man is presenting 'The Long
Childhood" as the last film of the series. 
We hope you enjoyed the series and will 
join us this week. There are showings at 
11:30 and 12:30 in the Wherret Room, 
Skibo on Tuesday, April 26. Bring your 
lunch and a friend. Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
from 2:00 to 3:00.
The Shady Lane School will hold its annual
fair on Saturday, May 14, 1977, from 
10:00 to 4:00 pm at Calvery Church, 
corner of Shady Avenue and Walnut Street, 
Shadyside. All proceeds benefit the schoolmore Letters
tour because I will be needed for work at 
this time.
I wish to state that I feel that this is 
grossly unfair that my vacation time is not 
mine to plan as I would like it to be, 
instead, it is decided—dictated, without 
any consideration or concern for the em­
ployee’s happiness, well being, or how it 
affects one’ life.
How can anyone properly evaluate a 
situation and determine what can be 
worked out when they have absolutely no 
knowledge of what the working schedule 
consists of?
An Unhappy Employee, 
Mrs. Elizabeth “Tootsie” Mackson
GOOD BEAVER
Editor:
The comic strip “Beaver” has got to be 
the best feature in the TARTAN. The 
economical use of expression, the sparse 
backgrounds, the skeletal story lines, these 
are the hallmarks of a great strip.
I am sure Mr. Brachman will have a long 
and successful career in the field of comics.
itErnie Bushmiller
WE NEED A NEW CLUB
Editor:
It seems that CMU has a multitude of 
student organizations which cater to man^s 
safer instincts (safety in numbers?) One I 
note conspicuously missing is an active 
student organization concerned with the 
preservation of our environment, and that 
is much more than just worrying about our 
energy necessities. That is not intended to 
belittle Jimmy; he is doing a reasonable job 
with respect to most environmental issues. 
(Environmental Lobby groups have been 
delighted with many of his proposals, so 
far.)
The absence of a “CMU Conservation 
Club is inexcusable in this day when more 
and more people are beginning to appre­
ciate what the phrase, “limits to growth” 
means. A club like this must be formed at 
CMU. Many local occurences merit the at­
tention of such an organization, and
actions of the club could include legislative 
lobbying, conservation projects, enjoyment 
weekends, etc.
I hope I’m not the only one who has 
wondered how much actual interest there 
is at CMU for generating an organization 
like this. Plans should begin this summer 
for installation in the fall. If anybody is 
out there, and wishes to be included in this 
organizations late birth, simply leave your 
name, local phone number, and a number 
where you can be reached this summer, 
and any comments, at the Skibo Informa­
tion Desk before you leave for the summer.
Thanks, 
Elliot Ohlberg
THANKS, FROM A FRIEND
Editor:
I would like to extend thanks and con­
gratulations from the campus community 
to SDC for making Spring Carnival an 
event for everyone to enjoy.
SDC’s tent has proven to be a terrific 
idea; especially since rain is also an annual 
event in the last weeks of April in Pitts­
burgh. All of the events scheduled in the 
tent were successful judging by the stand­
ing-room-only crowds. The Square Dance, 
Mime Show, Picnic, Gong Show and Dance 
provided something for everyone to enjoy. 
Also, the tent provided a place to move the 
ShowmobUe Entertainment when the rain 
threatened to dampen the carnival. Hope­
fully, the tent will become a Spring Car­
nival tradition.
In addition, SDC’s buggy team ran a 
fine race, finishing 13th out of 29 entries 
with a strong 2:36.2 time and hopes to 
develop into a top contender in the future. 
Then SIX! swept it all by winning first 
place in the booth competition for inde­
pendents with their picture-taking booth— 
the Wizard of Oz. Once again, a fine car­
nival idea gave us all something to remem­
ber.
Congratulations to Amy Boyle, SDC 
Spring Carnival Chairman; David Wolf, 
Social Chairman; Frank Worbs, Buggy 
Chairman; and Eric Huhn, Booth 
Chairman, and everyone else in SDC for 
a fantastic Spring Carnival.
Barbara Shumovich
scholarship fund.
The fair includes refreshments, tie-dyed 
T-shirts, plants, balloons, games, face paint­
ing, a basket of cheer raffle, a bake sale, a 
flea market and an arts and crafts booth.
In addition, this year we will have two 
amusement rides for children and an 
appearance by Mr. McFeely of Mr. Rogers' 
Neighborhood.
Please Come! All Welcome!
Ashley Bryan, noted illustrator, will pre­
sent two poetry readings on Saturday, 
May 7, under the sponsorship of Carnegie 
Library of Pittsburgh.
Bryan will appear at the library's 
Homewood Branch at 11.00 am and in the 
Central Children's Room at 2:00 pm. The 
readings, directed toward a third-to-fifth 
grade audience, are free and open to the 
public.
The award-winning Bryan, Artist-in-Res- 
idence at Doartmouth College, will be in 
Pittsburgh for ihe International Poetry 
Forum's ''Poets-in-Person'' program.
'Teaching Deaf Children Through Music
and Rhythms” will be the topic when 
Virginia Schatz speaks at Point Park 
College on Friday, April 29 at noon in 
Room 708, Academic Hall. Her appearance 
is part of the Guest Seminars sponsored by 
the College's Department of Education.
Virginia Schatz, a nationally known 
expert in the use of rhythm and music in 
teaching deaf children, is Community 
Relations Director at the Western Penn­
sylvania School for the Deaf.
William Weege, master printer and profes­
sor of art at the Madison campus of the 
University of Wisconsin, will speak on his 
experimental approach to the art of print- 
making on Wednesday, April 27 at 7:30 
pm in the Skibo Wherrett Room at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Weege's prints are part of the permanent 
collections of the Museum of Modern Art 
and the Brooklyn Museum in New York; 
the Art Institute in Chicago; the Akron 
(Ohio) Art Institute, and the Frankfort 
Library in Germany.
He is the founder of "Shenanigan Press, 
Ltd.," a non-commercial press and work­
shop for printmakers, located in Barnveld, 
Wisconsin. In 1970 Weege served as direc­
tor of an experimental workshop, sponsor­
ed by the Smithsonian Institute, at the 
35th Biennale Exhibit held in Venice, 
Italy. In addition to numerous one-man 
shows, he has exhibited his works at the 
"Artist as Adversary" and "Mechanics in 
Printmaking" shows held at New York's 
Museum of Modern Art in 1970 and at the 
U.S. Pavilion of the 1970 Worlds Fair in 
Japan.
The lecture is free and open to the 
public.
'The Carter Energy Policy - The Role of
Nuclear Power" will be the topic of a’ 
discussion at a general membership meeting 
of SAFE on Thursday, April 28 at 7:30 pm 
at the Hospitality Motor Inn, Rodi Road, 
Wilkens Twp. Joseph LaSala, Regional 
Administrator for the Federal Energy Ad­
ministration will be the featured speaker. A 
cocktail hour starting at 6:30 pm will pre­
cede the meeting, which will also include a 
short overview of SAFE accomplishments 
and plans for the future. SAFE, the 
Society for the Advancement of Fission 
Energy, welcomes guests at this meeting.
A course in 'The Slavic Heritage" will be a
special feature of Point Park College's 1977 
Summer Schedule, and will be held Tues­
day and Thursday evenings from 6:00— 
9:00 pm, May 23 through July 1.
The course will cover the origin and 
common characteristics of the Slavic 
peoples and their experiences in encounter­
ing American culture. It will also include 
those ethnic groups who, while not defi­
nitely Slavic, share important elements of
the Slavic tradition.
Course instructor is Michael Wady ko, 
who holds a B.S. and M.A. from the 
University of Pittsburgh. He is also asso­
ciated with Pitt's Department of Inter­
national Studies.
Wadyko has done extensive, research 
into the Slavic heritage, including the war­
time resistance movements in Poland and 
Yugoslavia and the rise of Ukranian nation­
alism.
This special course may be taken on a 
credit or non-credit basis. For more infor­
mation contact: The Office of Part-Time 
Studies, Point Park College, Wood Street, 
Pittsburgh, 15222 or call 391-4100.
scholarships awardsprizes
All CMU women graduates are eligible for
membership in the American Association 
of University Women, which has branches 
throughout the United States including five 
in the Pittsburgh area. Seniors interested in 
knowing more about the Association 
should contact Dean Lloyd in BH 161 who 
serves as CMU's liason representative.
classified
Grace, thought I'd say "hi" and ask "when
do you want to have lunch at Rhoda's ?"
Complete and competent wedding
photographic coverage in color. Album 
with twenty pictures 8” x 10" for 
$150.00. Some dates open. Call 523-5660 
after 7 pm. weekdays, anytime weekend.
To everyone who worked so hard to make
SDC's booth, buggy and tent successful— 
THANK YOU!!!!! Amy
Typing - CC Theses, Dissertations, term
papers, etc. Ask about free copying service. 
Call Janice 421-6483
Typing Guarantee. Save my number for
future jobs-PICA, ELITE, SYMBOL, 
ITALICS. Mary, 761-8584
Europe via PanAm 707 for less than !4
economy fare. Call toll free (6-9 pm) 
(800) 325-4867 or see your travel agent. 
60-day advance payment required. Uni- 
Travel Charters.
I'm Ready For Africa, But Africa's Not
ready for me. The Fulbright Nigerian pro­
ram has been canceled. I would like to 
thank everyone who hoped for me. Linda 
Deafenbaugh
For Sale: Ladies' diamond ring containing:
1 marquise shaped diamond 1.75 carats, 
ws clarity, 1-0 color (scale 0-3), mounted 
in platinum with 2 tapered baguettes. 
Appraised at $4,750. Best offer. 421-3419.
Typewriters For Rent: Smith Corona
Coronamtic 1200 electric portable type­
writers. $10.00 per week. Available at 
CMU Bookstore, Baker Hall.
Wanted for Chemical Engineering Senior
Design Project of process manufacturing 
40 million gal/yr. of 190 proof ethanol: 
3000 gay midgets for a high pressure 
alcohol scrubber.'Group concessions. Free 
showers. Booze and ice cubes. Call X 327.
Lost-one pair of red track and field shoes
at the Intramural Track Meet. Left near 
Long Jump Runway. Please call 682—8376 
Mike (Room B-5) There is a reward.
Lost article on second level of Cut by
Science Hall. Call 682-1538.
Lost—Tim Roussos and Mike Shawaryn.,
Last seen at Exit 12 on Pa. Turnpike. Any 
information on the whereabouts of the* 
two please contact: DaveR.(717)334-9893.

---------------------------------------------------

>nf.' -- '/»ATP^T - v\Pf Vs ’..oA 
Page 4 - TARTAN - April 26, 1977
GONG!
Dy Joan Konkle
SDC’s first annual Gong Show, held 
Saturday afternoon in the SDC tent, was a 
mixed success. The tent was crowded with 
enthusiastic spectators, but many of the 
ten acts needed additional work and prac­
tice, as five of them were gonged. The 
show was also hampered by the fact that 
some people who signed up to perform did 
not come. The show was almost a half 
hour late in starting, and only lasted an 
hour.
The winning act, B.S. Express, had the 
maximum score of 30. The group per­
formed “Good-bye Coney Island Baby” in 
barbershop quartet style. Their prize was 
a trophy and $18.91. The prize for the 
worst act, which was a trophy with the pos­
terior section of a horse, went to Judy Vit­
ale and Mike Butcher. They won their 
prize by singing a melodramatic song about
a poor British mother losing one of her 10 
children.
Other acts included an impassioned but 
garbled song by the EMR Blues Group, 
which received 6 points; a rendition of 
“White Christmas” by MAA (Maximum 
Attention Area) in the PBS show Zoom’s 
ubby-dubby language; and a juggling and 
mime act performed to “In the Mood”, as 
sung by some cackling chickens.
Judges for the event were Robert Heath, 
Head of Housing, Sylvia Austin, Parking 
Director, and Ludwig, head of catering. 
At the end of the show, Austin’s son 
Phillip covered the stage with popcorn,- 
imitating the TV Gong Show’s ending of 
a midget throwing confetti. Earlier in the 
show, the audience cheered when the 
emcee, Nat Rich, jokingly said that Pres­
ident Cyert would do this.
BONG
by Sarah Diamond 
for WJ
SDC’s Gong Show effectively demon­
strated that CMU is not Hollywood. Nat 
Rich isn’t Chuck Barns, and Caroline Wel- 
ty isn’t that femme-fat ale who keeps 
Chuck going between acts. And try as he 
might, Sylvia Austin’s son, Phillip, can’t 
convince me that he’s a midget.
The set was appropriately tacky. The 
curtains, by Amy Boyle, hung haphazardly 
and were sprinkled with tinfoil stars, the 
gong itself was too small, and the sound 
system was bad. The pacing was slow, and 
the judges weren’t especially clever. And 
who is that Ludwig character? He may be 
a mean caterer, but I don’t think he’s ever 
watched The Gong Show before.
But enough time spent on these incon­
sequential details! I want to talk about 
the acts; I want to discuss the overabun­
dance of raw talent that CMU nurtures 
within its confines; I want to talk about 
hogcalling.
That’s right, hogcalling. CMU came 
closest to Hollywood when Sue Powers 
and LouBelle stepped onstage. LouBelie’s 
hogcalls were inspiring, and her magnifi­
cent, robust voice ranged from husky sen­
suousness to soaring, lyric sweetness. Joan 
Armatrading, watch out!
Other memorable acts included three 
Stevie Wonder-ish types crooning; a bunch 
of guys in a rock act (I’m told that the two 
on electric piano and guitar are really tal­
ented, but I couldn’t get much past the 
“CUNT” on the singer’s shirt); and Susie, 
singing, “You Don’t Have' To Be A ... 
Star (giggle, giggle).”
It was really a wonderful show. The 
audience’s overenthusiasm was partly the 
cause of the tedious pace, but without 
their cheers and hisses, David Wolt 
wouldn’t have known whether to hold up 
the “Boo” or “Applause” sign.
So three cheers for The Gong Show! 
I’m going to start practicing this summer, 
and next Spring Carnival I’m gonna bring 
'my bong and tap-dance my heart out on 
that Big Stage.
The judges: Bobby Heath, Sylvia Austin, and Ludwig
So, This is 
Carnival
by K. A. Yaksich
Maybe there are better places from 
which to see Spring Carnival, but from be­
hind the counter of a booth, one gets a 
pretty thorough overview of things. As a 
freshman experiencing my first Carnival, I 
am duly impressed with everything-the in­
tricacy of the booths, buggy-mania, the 
crowds, the sudden religious fervor of 
prayers warding off rain, the bustle of a 
hundred diversions competing for atten­
tion, and the general Mardi-gras atmo­
sphere pervading the entire scene.
This is all the more remarkable when I 
consider that the pressures of finals week 
are closing in on everyone like DU’s octo­
pus, and that there are a lot more acade­
mically fruitful ways to spend the weekend 
than blowing up balloons or handing out 
coconuts. Impressed service, it seems, is 
not altogether dead; someone has to stand 
watch at 3 AM, whether anyone volunteers 
or not. But the insight into people one gets 
here far surpasses that found in any psy­
chology book-doting grandparents covert­
ly spoiling their grandchildren with sticky 
cotton candy and water ices; cliques of jun­
ior high kids on an ego trip as they hustle a 
game; the almost chauvinistic pride of the 
neighboring college students and compet­
ing fraternities.
Carnival is something to be experienced 
sensually, totally; it blocks out the real 
world effectively, if temporarily. And my 
history paper? Well, I’ll worry about that 
next week.
Ramanan
SDC brings you
the First Annual
CMU Gong Show...

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 5GAZORCH!
The Gazorching Contest, and subse­
quent free-for-all, held Saturday on the 
cut, was marred by a series of ugly inci­
dents. According to judges Rick Freed, 
Lynn Davis, and Ginny Beyer, (the fourth 
judge was Barb Cohen) a group was playing 
football on the cut and refused to move. 
The judges were uncertain of exactly who 
the group was, but believed it to be com­
prised of ATOs and members of the Tartan 
Football team.
“There was no humor in [the situation] 
at all,” said one of the judges. In trying to 
get the football players off the field, the 
gazorchers turned their fury and their 
balloons on the offenders, and Rick Freed 
found himself in between a group of de­
fiant football players and incensed gazor­
chers. He barely escaped, he claimed.
As if in revenge, the football players 
went on a rampage and smashed the 
balloons of about half of all the people 
intending to gazorch. One judge said, “It 
looked like a riot was happening right in 
front of us.” One girl was hit with a water- 
balloon directly in the face.
The judges were rightly concerned over 
the lack of cooperation, and asked indig­
nantly, “What are they going to do next 
year?”
Theta Xi won first place for accuracy, 
and MAA’s Luxury team placed second. In 
distance, the MAA Execs won first and 
second place.
awards
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
The Award Ceremony was probably the 
second most chaotic event of carnival, sur­
passed only by the gazorching free-for-all.
Rowdiness had the edge on the crowd. 
There was so much shouting and cheering 
going on, it was impossible to hear any of 
the outcome, even from the front of the 
room. Boos from booth-builders and bug­
gy people, whose first place ambitions had 
been frustrated, reminded everyone that 
there were some who were less than ecsta­
tic about the results.
In the fraternity category, ZBT, who 
took second prize for booth design last 
year, moved up to first place with Treasure 
Island. SAE, who placed first last year, 
won second place for Alice in Wonderland. 
DTD’s Huckleberry Finn won third place.
KKG moved up from second place in 
last year’s competition in the sorority cate­
gory, and took first place for The Hobbit. 
The DGs came in second with The Jungle 
Book.
SDC won in the independent category 
for The Wizard of Oz.
Following the ceremony in the gym, 
was the SDC dance in the Tent. Aura pro­
vided “rock” music with a touch of jazz, 
| which complicated dancing a bit. This, 
| however, did not seem to bother the crowds 
cc the dance floor was packed.
too
The technique
is all 
in the feet
And
Ramanan

---------------------------------------------------

byJooa auuesng/c
O “O
n c 
O
0)
Susanne Wilson

---------------------------------------------------

< CARNIVAL '77
niPhotographs by R amanan
Popowitz

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - TARTAN - April 26, 1977
Project Upsets Designers Senate Minutes...
by Joseph Bartnicki
Many Design students are upset over an 
additional project they will have to do at 
the end of this semester. The project, 
called the Concord Problem, is a competi­
tive exercise that is required for all fresh­
man and sophomore Design students, but 
will not be graded. The exercise is volun­
tary for juniors and seniors.
Students will have a choice of working 
on a graphic design problem or an indus­
trial oriented problem. The Freshman- 
Sophomore concord will be given on 
May 2 and will be due on May 5. Par­
ticipating students will be given a kit con­
taining the problem, its requirements, and 
a good deal of background information. 
The exact nature of the problem is un­
known, but it will be very broad to allow 
for individual interpretation. The pro­
jects will be judged on creativity, appro­
priateness, and appearance. Prizes to be 
awarded include a grand prize, money, and 
certificates.
The problem for juniors and seniors will 
be given on April 29 and will be due on 
May 6. According to the handout on the 
problem, “These are real problems for real 
clients and will be produced.”
Students are upset over the additional 
assignment because they were only told 
about it at mid-semester. Many have 
already arranged for summer jobs and 
summer housing, and plans will have to be 
changed. In addition, the usual pressures of 
semester deadlines have made the students 
especially reluctant to put in the extra time 
that the Concord Problem demands.
Some students, however, think the Con­
cord Problem is a worthwhile assignment.
CMU Jazz Band 
Goes to Festival
by Tracy Appleby
During the weekend of April 15, the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Jazz Ensemble, 
under the direction of Assistant Professor 
Leonard Geissel, participated in the presti­
gious 10th Annual Quinnipiac College 
Intercollegiate Jazz Festival. Although 
numerous bands audition via tape record­
ings each year, the Quinnipiac event 
(known as the “granddaddy” of all colle­
giate jazz festivals), accepts only the twelve 
best entries.
Since this year marked the 10th anni­
versary of the festival, such name jazz 
musicians as Buddy Rich, Stan Kenton, 
Dizzy Gillespie, Bill Watrous, and Dave 
Brubeck were on hand to perform or adju­
dicate. The CMU band had the honor of 
performing with Kai Winding. Winding, a 
prominent trombonist, performed stints 
with the 40’s Kenton band, J. J. Johnson, 
and more recently has become involved in 
studio work and establishing his own pub­
lishing company.
Winding and the CMU ensemble collab­
orated to perform “Danish Blue,” and 
“Lover Man.” Other featured tunes were 
“Decoupage,” written by Hank Levy; 
“Passacaglia,” by Bob Curnow; a Wayne 
Shorter tune entitled “Infant Eyes,” 
arranged by Keith Bishop, a fifth year 
Music Ed student; and an updated Bill 
Holman arrangement of the Webb- 
Goodman tune “Stompin’ at the Savoy.”
Although the CMU band participated in 
the non-competitive bracket, they didn’t 
leave New Haven Connecticut without 
recognition. Keith Bishop on tenor sax was 
named the outstanding soloist of the festi­
val, and received a citation for his “Infant 
Eyes” arrangement as well. Kai Winding 
also approved of the impressive style of the 
ensemble. “He enjoyed our band more 
than any other, because we were the only 
continued on page 9
They feel the project is a good way to eva­
luate the Design department and them­
selves. Many schools present projects sim­
ilar to this one for just the purpose of eva­
luation. The prospect of winning a mone­
tary award is also an incentive for some 
students.
The Concord Problem was devised this 
year by Edward Fisher, an Associate Pro­
fessor of Design, and others.
CMU in Media; 
Radio,TV,Mags
The Public Relations Office has released 
a report containing highlights of national 
media coverage that CMU has received in 
the past year. The report lists 53 different 
events or people related in some way to 
CMU, where the information was publish­
ed, and the value of the publicity if the 
coverage was purchased as advertising space 
or air-time on radio or television.
Included in the report are the following: 
President Cyert was featured in a Wall 
Street Journal article on the role of college 
presidents as financial managers, (valued at 
$1,635)
Professor Herbert Simon discussed 
memory in a syndicated column, (valued at 
$1,310)
SUPA was featured in an article in 
Ebony Magazine, (valued at $33,632) 
News of a study conducted by pro­
fessors in GSIA on the effectiveness of 
teacher evaluations was printed by 
Associated Press in 17 newspapers and in 
the Chronicle of Higher Education, (valued 
at $3,063)
Alger Hiss’s lecture received mention in
7 newspapers, (valued at $525)
An article about minority students in 
CIT was printed in Dawn Magazine, (valued 
at $11,242)
News of the computer chess match (see 
TARTAN, April 19, 1977) was printed in 
the New York Times, (valued at $100) 
Professor Robert Boston discussed the 
effects of noise pollution on hearing on 
Man and Molecules, a 15-minute weekly 
science program carried by 500 radio 
stations throughout the U.S., Canada, and 
Australia, (valued at $45,000)
Professor William Brown’s research on 
sickle-cell anemia was discussed on Man 
and Molecules, (valued at $45,000)
Walter Cathie, Director of Financial 
Aid, discussed college aid for middle- 
income families on the Today show, 
(valued at $56,000)
Research at CMU on solar sea power 
was featured in a program about solar 
energy on Nova, a national television show 
on the PBS network, (value unknown) 
If purchased as advertising, the total 
value of national print and electronic 
media coverage for the year April 1976- 
April 1977, was $488,093.
Civ. E Awards
Professor Francis Clay McMichael, Head 
of the Department of Civil Engineering, has 
announced the following awards to out­
standing students chosen by the Civil En­
gineering Faculty:
Harold Allen Thomas Scholarship 
Award to Steven D. Pfeifer, ‘77.
Irving S. Paley Construction Industry 
Award to Edward Plank, ‘78, and Debra 
Kufert, ‘79.
Pennsylvania Drilling Company Scholar­
ship Grants to Paul Maurer, ‘78, Sheila 
Mountain, ‘78, and Michael Bresko, ‘79.
Herman B. and Esther M. Neiman 
Memorial Scholarship to Dennis Mialki, 
‘78, and David Conover, ‘79.
For those who couldn't care less
by Linda Deak
On April 20, 1977, Chairperson David 
G. Roussos called to order a meeting of 
Student Senate. If you didn’t happen to be 
part of the deluge assembled in the Wherret 
room, you missed out on a very interesting 
discussion:
In order to have the minutes of the 
previous meeting with guest Dr. Richard 
Cyert approved, Dean Swank requested 
that a few lines be deleted from the min­
utes. This would squelch rumors which 
have been aggravating in the Fine Arts De­
partment as a result of the statements alleg­
edly made by Dr. Cyert, and appearing in 
an article entitled “President Cyert at 
Student Senate” in the issue dated April 
19, 1977. Swank stressed that Dr. Cyert 
had not commented to the effect that 
there will be fewer students in CFA next 
year, and also had not implied that there 
will be a possible increase in the Art De­
partment budget.
Swank informed Senate that the Facul­
ty Affairs Council of Faculty Sentate is 
holding a meeting on Monday, April 25, 
at 3:30 to discuss parking rates and 
allocations for the next academic year. 
Swank warned that “student access to 
parking spaces might get clobbered”, and 
that students who think it is convenient to 
park on campus should “flood” the meet­
ing to voice student opinion on the matter.
Swank also brought up the issue of the 
possibility that the WRCT antenna will be 
moved to the top of Warner Hall. He added 
that President Cyert expressed an interest 
in the project, which will inevitably be 
funded by Senate. The antenna issue will 
appear in future meetings for those inter-
Changes in the GRE
College seniors planning to take the 
Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) 
Aptitude Test next fall will see some 
changes in the exam. A new section design­
ed to measure analytical skills will be 
added to the traditional areas that test 
verbal and quantitative skills.
The change, the first since the current 
form of the Aptitude Test was introduced 
in the 1940s, is based on an extensive re­
search effort initiated by the Graduate 
Record Examinations Board that showed 
that analytical skills can be distinguished 
from verbal and quantitative skills and are 
related to academic success.
Students, faculty members, and admin­
istrators from all over the country were 
consulted in the various planning stages of 
the change in the exam.
Educational Testing Service (ETS), 
which administers the exam for the GRE 
Board, explained that the additional mea­
sure will enable students to demonstrate a 
wider array of academic talents when they 
apply for admission to graduate schools.
Janis Somerville, GRE program director 
at ETS, said, “The new measure will test a 
student’s skills in a number of areas. Stu­
dents will be able to show their ability to 
recognize logical relationships, draw con­
clusions from a complex series of state­
ments, and determine relationships be­
tween independent or interdependent 
categories of groups.”
She explained that, like the traditional 
measures of the GRE, the new test will use 
various kinds of questions.
“Three types will be used in the analyt­
ical section: analysis of explanations, logi­
cal diagrams, and analytical reasoning 
continued on page 9
ested listeners.
President John Lubon talked on the 
progress of the new dorm proposal. The 
approval committee for the trustees voted 
affirmatively on the issue, the project 
seems very feasible. The proposal awaits a 
final decision by the executive committee 
of the trustees which will be meeting in 
June.
Those who have been chosen to sit on 
the Executive Board of the Student Corp­
oration can now do so legitimately, acquir­
ing the approval of Senate. Regina Hopkins 
initiated the motion to have Robin Klar, 
Kathy Koledin and Don Simon serve on 
the Board.
For those not minding the class time 
lost in filling out course evaluations, you 
might like to know that an extra $215.00 
was allocated to A Phi O to continue this 
activity during the 76-77 academic year. 
Senate had previously voted on A Phi O’s 
request for the allocation, in addition to an 
increase of funding to $300.00 to conduct 
their semi-annual activity next year.
Tom Eaglemann, chairperson for the 
Finance Committee, discussed the budgets 
of two organizations which have gone un­
approved because of questionable activities. 
Spirit wished to have their 77-78 budget 
approved, but it was noticed that there was 
possible discrimination in their member­
ship, as all students were not permitted to 
vote in their past election. The cheerleaders 
presented a budget for approval, but the 
committee is requiring that they explicitly 
state who is judging the cheerleading try­
outs. Senate felt this was in keeping with 
the definition of a student organization, as 
designated judges would be representative 
of all students.
Food, a familiar conversation tidbit on 
campus, was in question in approving the 
philosophy club budget. Under Senate rul­
ing, no funds are appropriated to cover 
food expenses for any organization. The 
accusation that the Philosophy Club mem­
bers were frequenting Antonino’s on Sun­
day afternoons did not hold up under dis­
cussion, and the budget of $80.00 was 
approved.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club, due to an 
increase in sales, has asked Senate to reallo­
cate their funds in order to purchase new 
equipment to compensate for additional 
membership during the spring term.
If you are interested in attending sum- m 
classes, but have a conflict with a 
summer job, the latest endeavor of the 
Academic Affairs Committee might excite 
you. James Gasbarro, Chairperson, has sent 
out a questionnaire to detect the number 
of students who would register for certain 
courses if they were offered in the evening.
Gasbarro mentioned that it may be too late 
to enact the proposal this summer, but if 
an interest is shown, it has great possibili­
ties for the summer courses offered in ’78.
The Senate gets very tired of looking at 
its own respective faces at the weekly 
meetings. Students have an open invitation 
to attend any or all of the meetings. The 
next meeting is slated for April 27, at 6:30 
in the Wherret Room.
(Editor’s note: In the second paragraph of 
this article, the statements "<allegedly" 
made by President Cyert are, in fact, 
correct. Nowhere in the article of April 19 
does President Cyert say there will be few­
er students in CFA next year, or that the 
Art department may get an increase in 
their budget. Any misconceptions about 
what the President said must be attributed 
to faulty reading on the part of the stu­
dents.)

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 9
Training was grueling, and the race was an all-out effort. Next year, victory I
Prof doesTARTAN Wins 
Journalism Awards
by K.A. Yaksich
The TARTAN has received a number of 
journalistic awards for 1976-77, as it has 
frequently in the past. The TARTAN was 
entered in two contests in January, and 
took prizes in both.
In the competition sponsored by the 
Pennsylvania Newspaper Publisher’s Foun­
dation, the paper received the Pennsylvania 
Collegiate Press Association First Place Ex­
cellence Award in Advertisements for Fred 
Shamlian’s “Snatch the Pebble” ad, which 
appeared in the September 21st issue. The 
TARTAN also swept first, second, and 
third place in the Cartooning category; 
awards were taken by Andy Epstein, Fred 
Carlson, and Scott Pollock, respectively. 
Honorable mentions were taken by Bob 
Firm for sports writing and by Kim Harrity 
for general columns.
Awards were presented by David Seav- 
ey, National Observer cartoonist, at the 
PCPA convertion awards banquet held at 
Gannon College, Erie, on March 26.
The TARTAN also was honored by the 
Society of Publication Designers for the 
September 21 FOLIO cover featuring An­
drew Carnegie. That cover was designed by 
Victoria Bond Hill and David Roussos. The 
Publication Design Award will be given at a 
dinner to be held May 6 at Rockefeller 
Center, New York City.
The editorial staff of the winning publi­
cation included Charles Mitch, editor-in- 
chief; David Roussos, FOLIO editor; Elliot 
Popowitz, photography editor; and Bob 
Firm, sports editor.
jazz Festival
continued from page 8
ones who played real jazz,” said Professor 
Geissel.
“I think we had a fruitful time. The 
band played exceedingly well, but even 
more importantly, the students had the 
opportunity to hear other kids and other 
styles,” Geissel summed up.
English Head 
Candidates Visit
The committee undertaking the search 
for a new English department head has 
arranged for four candidates to visit CMU 
during the month of April. Three of these 
candidates have visited and a fourth will be 
on campus tomorrow and Thursday. The 
format of each candidate’s 2-day visit 
includes meetings and discussions with the 
Search Committee, students, English de­
partment faculty, H&SS department heads, 
Dean Crecine, and the current English de­
partment head, Professor Eastman.
After the fourth candidate’s visit, the 
Search Committee will collect written re­
actions to the candidates from the persons 
they have seen. The Committee will then 
make a recommendation to the Dean.
All four candidates are English profes­
sors with administrative backgrounds. They 
are Paula Johnson, from Yale; Richard 
Schwartz, from University of Wisconsin; 
James Malek, from University of Idaho; 
and George Bornstein, from University of 
Michigan.
T rustees
continued from page 1
Edward Parkinson, and John Welsh. The 
Trustees, as well as the TARTAN, thank ail 
those retiring for their service to CMU.
Also discussed at the meeting was Union 
Carbide’s desire to construct a research 
facility at the CMU Bushy Run Research 
Center. Such a facility would offer Union 
Carbide low-cost facilities, the reputation 
of the University, and the management of 
the University. CMU would build a
188,000 square foot facility for $24.6 mil­
lion. The facility would be operated by 
CM\J, and workers would be on the CMU 
payroll. The major work at the facility 
would be conducted in the toxocological 
laboratories, which would consist mainly 
of inhalation chambers to study the effect 
of certain chemicals on animals.
The Trustees are in favor of the propos­
al, though no formal action was taken at 
this time. CMU is presently researching the 
possibilities of such an arrangement with 
Union Carbide, and may issue a contract to 
demonstrate interest.
In his progress report to the Trustees, 
President Cyert expressed interest in a 
study of the establishment of a two-year 
college to complement the first two years 
of work at the Community College of 
Allegheny County. Courses would be pro­
vided for engineering technicians, nurses, 
and students interested in computer train­
ing and accounting. The new school would 
use CMU facilities at night and during the 
summer.
Dr. John B. N Hirt, President of the 
Community College of Allegheny County, 
is on a four-month leave of absence to 
study the possibility.
If the study is positive about such a 
school, President Cyert will bring his plans 
back to the Executive Committee for their 
approval.
Also in his progress report, President 
Cyert announced the possible establish­
ment of a training program for Black 
Rhodesians. The program would assist the 
Rhodesians in the transition of their gov­
ernment from a minority rule to a majority 
rule. The Ford Foundation has expressed 
some interest in sponsoring such a program.
The project would be established in the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs, and 
would offer training to 50 Rhodesians in a 
two-year program in SUPA and in a four- 
year engineering program. It was suggested 
that the people selected for this program 
be chosen without consideration of politi­
cal affiliation and that the State Depart­
ment be consulted about the program.
Psych
If you think that Galileo invented the 
telescope when the French were burning 
Joan of Arc at the stake, or that 
Rembrandt painted “The Man in the 
Golden Helmet” while Columbus was dis­
covering the new world, then your ability 
to organize people and events in time is 
“faulty.”
So says Carnegie-Mellon University 
cognitive psychologist John Richard Hayes, 
whose current research delves into under­
standing how people organize historical 
information.
Dr. Hayes, assisted by researcher Susan 
Robinson, began his inquiry in 1973 when 
he administered an experimental history 
test to the freshman class of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences at CMU. 
The results showed that not only were the 
students having difficulty in organizing 
famous people and events in time, they 
were missing by more than a century.
“The fact that somebody is off by 100 
years is bad,” notes Dr. Hayes. “But what 
is worse,” he adds, “is that the artists, 
scientists and politicians are off in different 
amounts.” Famous musicians as a group 
were placed about 140 years early and 
famous scientists about 130 years too 
early. In contrast, political and religious 
leaders are placed about 45 years late.
The magnitude of this “time warp” 
suggests that there is something faulty in 
the students’ perception of their culture, 
notes Dr. Hayes. For example, the average 
judgements make Claude Debussy and Ben 
Franklin contemporaries and Isaac Newton 
a few years older than Henry VIII. In 
reality, Franklin died in 1790, 72 years 
before Debussy was born in 1862, while 
Newton (1642—1727) followed Henry VIII 
(1491—1547) by nearly 100 years.
Hayes believes that the fault exists be­
cause “education tends to departmentalize 
knowledge rather than integrate it.” In 
other words, music history is taught sepa­
rately from political or scientific history. 
To help his students correct this problem,
GRE Changes
continued from page 8questions, eacn designed to test a different 
aspect of analytical ability,” she said.
Somerville also explained that no formal 
training in logic or methods of analysis is 
required to do well on the new measure.
“Some analytical skills are required and 
developed in virtually all fields of study,” 
she continued. “And, like verbal and quan­
titative skills, analytical skills are developed 
ovei a long period of time and are not 
believed to be improved to any significant 
degree by intensive study in a brief period 
of time.”
The 1977—78 GRE Bulletin of Infor­
mation will describe the new measure and 
will include sample questions and explana­
tions of the answers. The Bulletin is sent 
free to all students registering for the GRE.
In addition, a Sample Aptitude Test 
containing the same number and types of 
questions as the actual exam can be order­
ed at one dollar per copy. Both publica­
tions will be available on August 1.
Despite the new addition, the GRE will 
remain a three-hour test since the verbal 
and quantitative portions have been short­
ened and the time saved allocated to the 
new measure.
“The same research effort that pro­
duced the new measure also yielded shorter 
versions of the verbal and quantitative sec­
tions that are comparable in reliability and 
usefulness to the earlier and longer sec­
tions,” explained Somerville.
The GRE is taken each year by about
300,000 college students as part of the 
admissions process to graduate school. The 
exam is offered six times a year, while 
advanced tests in 20 subjects are offered 
five times a year throughout the nation.
History
Dr. Hayes, developer of matrix
Dr. Hayes constructed a matrix, or cultural 
chart of famous persons and events in the 
fields of art, science, philosophy, music, 
literature and politics between 1400 and 
1900.
For each time interval, Dr. Hayes found 
a notable individual in each field who made 
his or her most important contribution 
during that time interval. For example, 
Mozart was chosen as a musician active 
between 1750 and 1800 and Galileo as a 
scientist active between 1600 and 1650.
The matrix provides a framework for 
relating people and events in cultural his­
tory as well as aiding people to better 
organize information. “Once the matrix 
has been learned,” insists Dr. Hayes, “it 
can help us to organize knowledge-we have 
which is not contained in the matrix.”
For example, one might know that 
Marie Antoinette knew Mozart as a child or 
that she was beheaded in the French 
Revolution, or that the British chemist 
Priestly was involved in a controversy with 
Lavoisier. “In knowing the matrix,” con­
tends Hayes, “we can relate information to 
what we already know.”

---------------------------------------------------

c
v , ‘ '• ' ’ ?* • • w. ;
,
University Food Service Announces
TARTAN GRILL 
MIDNIGHT SPECIAL
Celebrate the Last Day of Classes
• ‘ - ^ ‘x r';r •% ' ‘ ^ *¦
FRIDAY, APRIL 29 
12-2*30 AM
FEATURING:
• 'Solsticc' playing soft rock and jazz
• the'Special'
Quarter Pounder w^cheese Jlj
French Fries 
10 oz Coke
Lemon Delight.........................all tor 89$
¦' . r. . ¦ /
¿IftMfoW'&fii ft'i&i L/. ¦

---------------------------------------------------

APRIL 26,1977 / ISSUE TEN : THE FUTURE OF CMU

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - TARTAN - April 26,1977
LDBcrraiav
by Mark Aksoy
Why on or off Earth should this happen to a 
person like me? I shouted this question to myself 
as I zipped along Conveyor Slideway Number 2 
with a few post-rushhour stragglers from Oakland 
Station to CMU Center. This was beginning to 
sound serious - I'd been semestering at CMU for 
nearly 3 % years now and had received no credit 
for any courses in the last 4 marking periods. 
There was a brief flicker of waning daylight as we 
crossed the antique tracks in Panther Hollow Park 
and shot into the slope on the other side. Oh, I 
had done okay in all of them, but no credit - 
that's what Warner Hall said. I took my latest 
grade printout (I insisted on permanent records) 
from my pocket and once again scanned it 
closely.
Five minutes later, everything started slowing 
down as PA systems barked, announcing the end 
of the line at Cut Station. What the hell am I 
doing here!? I should have jumped at the 
Morewood Towers turnoff! Cursing, I took the 
escalator to the surface and emerged from a squat 
glass building with revolving doors on all sides. We 
were in the middle of the Cut, and most of my 
fellow student travellers were striking out across 
the Astroturf to Doherty Hall, M-M, or Skibo. 
There was a momentary flicker from the west­
ward side of Warner Hall as its solar panels
TARTAN FOLIO
APRIL 26,1977 / ISSUE TEN : THE FUTURE OF CMU
EDITOR JEFFERY ZASLOW 
ASSISTANT EDITOR KAREN ANN YAKSICH 
ART DIRECTOR ANDY EPSTEIN 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS MARK AKSOY
WENDOLF DOLSON 
JOAN LIVITSKI 
ROBERT ZIMMERMANN
SCO TT POLLACK
COVERDESIGN by ANDY EPSTEIN
ingested the last photons of sunset and folded 
into the walls for the night. I shook my fist at the 
almost sentient building. "$60,000, 3 years of my 
precious life and look what you've done to me!" 
Satisfied, I headed Morewoodward in the rapidly 
growing darkness. Subliminal music exuded from 
well-concealed speakers everywhere and I began 
to feel relaxed. Suddenly, 2 glowing shapes 
scuttled into some bushes just 20 meters in front 
of me. They could've passed for cat and mouse. I 
looked up - the antenna structures on Skibo, 
Doherty, and especially Warner Hall sparkled with 
points of brilliant light as barely traceable beams 
quietly swept the campus grounds. The Holo­
graphic Program Sequence in Nocturnal Environ­
ments had begun, populating the whole area and 
even Flagstaff Hill with ghostly animal illusions. 
20th century ancients would have felt right at 
home here. Strange that I feel the same way ... a 
cynical smile crossed my face . . . perhaps I was 
more dependent on Warner Hall than I thought.
It was 19:30 hours and my roommate Elroy 
was hunched over his telorgasmophone getting his 
kicks for the night. I slammed the door and 
glowered.
"Turn off that damned sex receiver and come 
over here. I don't see how you can get eroticized 
with that thing: WRCT has only 40 watts of 
power!"
"Hey, boy, what's biting you?" He flicked a 
switch and came back to earth. "Oh! Did you 
hear the news . . . they're going to install a Com- 
puterex system in the dorm next year. Now we 
won't have to rely on that idiotic terminal out in 
the hallway!"
"I couldn't care less! Look at this!" I flashed 
my grade report in his face.
"What, paper!? Why do you have your grade 
report on paper?"
"Read it, dummy!" Elroy could be a valuable 
friend but you had to be patient with him.
"Hmm! Mandarin Chinese, Quasar Ultra­
structure, Comparative Interplanetary Geology 
. . . how interesting ... if you divide your total 
units factorable into quality points earned you 
get..."
"... a QPA of 0! I know, I know . . . this is 
the fourth time. What the hell am I supposed to 
do!?"
Elroy idly fingered the knobs on his 3-D set. 
It was almost time for his course in rainmaking. 
"See your advisor Dr. Variance again?"
"Well, I don't see what else I could do." The 
final part of the grading procedure was entirely 
computerized, as was most of the administration.
Next day, I gave Dr. Variance one more try 
with predictable results. Instead of phoning for 
the usual appointment, I decided to bang on his 
office door until he responded. Instead, a stranger 
appeared. "Oh, Prof. Variance is on indefinite 
leave for recycling. He's taking some courses in 
the fine structure of starspots, I think ... he 
didn't say where but I am in charge of his advisees 
. . . what, your grade report makes no sense? . . . 
Man, I guess you're right .. . but I'm new around 
here . . . just got in today ... I wouldn't know 
where to begin . . . how could Warner Hall 
possibly be wrong? . . . isn't it checked out by a 
maintenance team every 3 years or so? . . . well, 
glad to have met you ... I'm Dr. Constant . . .
I half expected it. Many professors had to take 
continual courses to keep up with developments 
in their field. No telling how long it would take 
for Variance to be recycled. I had terrible visions 
of my disastrous QPA automatically transmitted 
from Warner Hall to potential employers only to 
be automatically rejected by computers in those 
institutions without any humans being aware of 
it!
The rumble of a distant Discorde 787 gave 
sonic emphasis to my dejection as I slunk off to 
Skibo.
What to do, what to do ... In the cafeteria line 
I was so engrossed in formulating a plan that I 
reached for a salad forgetting that all salads (and 
some of the jellos) were holographic - just there 
for decoration. My hand went right through the 
bowl and a girl behind the counter laughed. Con­
cluding that she was real, I asked for a soy- 
burgundy, and by the time the meat substitute 
had reached my stomach, a viable plan had 
hatched in my brain. The final alternative . . . a 
bit daring, but how simple .. . !
"You're right," said Elroy, taking the J-probe 
from the electrojuana unit out of his mouth. 
"Electronic access to the building's memory 
banks is blocked by a maze of required code 
words. You'll have to . . . heh, heh . . . resort to 
more direct means."
That night, I walked leisurely toward campus 
pretending to read the TARTAN Sunday Edition. 
Hmm . . . STUDENT SENATE VOWS TO RE­
UNITE MEAT GROUP AND MILK GROUP BY 
2000. Of course, I was nonchalantly edging to­
ward Warner Hall. A small crowd of people 
lounged in total silence on the front steps enjoy­
ing the subliminal music and perfumed air. But 
no problem - they were only scintys. You know, 
people crazy enough to have LED circuits 
implanted in th§ir foreheads and wired to certain 
brain centers. With enough practice they can 
flash simple sentences at each other. Good 
scinties never talk, they just scintillate.
I approached slowly. "BOY, THE SUB MUSIC 
IS REALLY ABOVEGROUND TONITE."
"Yeah," I spoke to the glowing message, "sorry 
I can't join you ... I'm a Compsci Major .. . have 
special permission to work inside the Hall ... I 
have a passkey."
"TEPID, BOY, TEPID! THAT'S REALLY 
NEAR IN!"
I walked past them and around the back of 
the building. They were too unconcerned to 
follow me. Quickly, I whipped out a portolaser, 
diamond drill, intensotorch, and a wad of plastic 
explosive. Elroy is very cooperative about lending
out his tools and fortunately I needed only the 
first one. Soon an unsymmetric circle of glass hit 
the inside floor with a phwamm! A current of 
cold air oozed out as I ducked inside, flashlight 
on. All sorts of alarms must be flashing electroni­
cally by now. No stairs, no elevators anywhere, 
of course. I found the maintenance access ladder 
in a dimly lit area just as a burly security guard 
with a billy club started toward me. I clutched 
my portolaser, then relaxed and walked right 
through him. I might succeed, I thought . . . no­
body's ever had the audacity to do this before. In 
the upper level, beyond the flashing lights of the 
deans lay the Simon Daedalus Mark II, humming 
softly in the darkness. In its memory bank rested 
all information about all grades for all students 
all over CMU. I rechecked the component dia­
gram that Elroy had given me and aimed the 
portolaser accordingly. This was drastic surgery,
I admitted, but I braced myself and pulled the 
trigger...
I covered my tracks pretty well that night. 
1 Vi semesters later, Simon Daedalus still had 
selective amnesia but had partially repaired him­
self. Even the holographic programs which he 
controlled are now in working order, though 
occassionally the mice expand to giant size and 
chase the cats. Most important, the faculty has 
taken charge of all grading and I have no more 
Q?A problems. However, Daedalus still sent out 
electronically his own worthless grade reports to 
all students. I've had mine printed and framed for 
posterity's sake. Like those received by the 
25,000 other students in this university, it is a 
total blank except foF my name and the words: 
OFFICIAL SCHEDULE. IF IN ERROR, SEE 
YOUR ADVISOR.«

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 13
TIME TUMMEL
by Robert Zimmermann
"The tunnel is activated, Doctor."
"Good. Get our heroic voyagers."
"But, they don't want to go."
"Well, force them!"
Two Carnegie scientists, lost in the swirling 
maze of time. Propelled by the EE Department's 
most secret (if not unoriginal) invention: THE 
TIME TUNNEL.
Fine Arts Building."
"I guess the college just got so sick of the 
architects that they were removed along with 
their department."
"What's that floating by over there?"
"I think it's a buggy. Materials just got lighter 
and lighter until, well ..."
"Do you want to drop by Skibo? I'm dying to 
know what they're serving."
"Probably bad tasting pills."
"Let's check on the Frats. Hmm, ATO has 
three more floors, but where is SAE?"
"On top of ATO. When those guys get going, 
it's hard to stop them."
"Quick, let's get to the EE Department's 
office."
"Why?"
"We can get copies of the 1977 finals, and 
‘make a fortune."
Tumble, tumble, bump, bump . . . CRASH!
"Just once I'd like to land on my feet. Tony, 
Tony where are you?"
"I'm in some sort of pit. When we fell, the 
covering collapsed. It's filled with wood chips and 
wire."
"So that's what they did with the piano. Well, 
get out and we'll look around."
"Where is Science Hall? All I see is a hole, and’ 
some skid marks leading to . . . Panther Hollow. 
There it is. Boy, that must be weird when the 
12 .52 train goes through the Comp Center."
"Look, there's a new building on the (Jut. It's 
called . . . 'Cyert Hall.' There's a plaque on the 
side: Named after Richard Cyert, President of
Carnegie-Mellon, 1971 — 1986, whose one regret 
was that the school was not mentioned in any of 
Howard Hughes'wills."
"Let's go in. Hmm, there's the Atomic Re­
search Department."
BOOM!
"WHATINTHEHEL LWASTH AT? "
"Here comes Physical Plant in green radiation 
suits. Let's move on."
"Say, did you notice that the building was 
shaped like a dollar sign."
"Do tell. Look at that. There's a hole in the
Two Carnegie scientists lost in the swirling 
maze of Time. Propelled by the EE Department's 
most secret (and definitely unoriginal) invention, 
the Time Tunnel.
"Hey, that's not fair."
"Comeon now guys, we were just kidding. We 
would not have taken the answers Why did you 
send us to this place. It's cold, and dark, and the 
people look like zombies. You, over there, where 
are we? What year is this?"
"Why it's 1977. This is the Freshman Archi­
tects Drafting Room."»
jj An tvSNMJ Exhibition^ Liv€ (erfcmnrw$ *
¦ Unfar- fcuMd

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - TARTAN - April 26, 1977
DIKDN’S.'V. 
PREDICTIONS
by Jeff Zaslow
Folio was very intent on inviting Jeanne Dixon 
to CMU to make some predictions about the 
future of the university. She refused, on the 
grounds that the school lacked a predictable 
future. However, she did recommend her cousin 
Richard M. Dixon (yes, the same man who was 
the Richard Nixon impersonator). Dixon made 
the following predictions, and claims that at 
least 5% of them will occur. The other 95%, Folio 
is sorry to announce, will never happen at all. 
However, Dixon has been out of work ever since 
former President Nixon lost some of his popular­
ity. Folio felt that Dixon can use all the work he 
can get, and paid him with a subsidy from the 
student activities fee.
Dixon's predictions are interesting, mainly 
because he made no mention of which ones were 
to be included in the 5%.
Prediction 1) In the year 1979, the CMU 
college of Humanities and Social Sciences will be 
rated Number 3 in the country, behind Harvard 
and Yale. In the same year, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and Mellon Institute of Science will 
be rated 98th and 99th in the country respect­
ively. CIT and MIS will fall from their present 
high ranking into the college gutter for no 
explainable reason. Such schools as Allegheny 
County Community College and the Gateway 
High School Advanced Placement Science Depart­
ment will rank above CMU's Science program. 
The Drama department will be rated Number 1 in 
the country by 1979, and each graduate will be 
assured a daytime soap opera, weekly comedy 
series, lead in a broadway play, Motion picture 
contract for life or a General Electric toaster 
oven, upon graduation.
Prediction 2)The Kiltie Cafe will begin issuing a 
set of silverware to each contract holder at the 
start of eadi school year beginning in 1986. The 
set will have to last the student the entire year. 
The reason for this policy will be because of the 
rising price of forks and knives, and the vast 
amount of thievery in 1985. For example, in 
1985, a band of students will steal every fork, 
knife and spoon from Morewood Gardens and 
Kilte Cafe, in order to melt them down to make 
costume jewelery.
Prediction 3) In 1986, Costume jewelery made 
from silverware will be the big hit on the CMU 
campus. Everyone will own some.
Prediction 4) In 1989, students will be issued 
plates and saucers and cups in addition to silver­
ware. The reason will again be the large amount 
of stealing. For example, in 1988, the popularity 
of Plating (with stolen plates) will grow to enor­
mous proportions. Flagstaff will be filled with 
Platers all during the winter. Traying will be 
considered a dead sport. Each student will be 
responsible for keeping his/her set of dishes clean.
Prediction 5) In the Fall of 1977, eight 
students will be rushed from Morewood Gardens 
to the hospital. Seven of them will be pregnant. 
The eighth will be a Presbyterian. The girls' 
pregnancy will be attributed to germs on the hall 
telephone on 4-B. (Luckily this prediction is part 
of the 95%, according to Mr. Dixon.)
Prediction 6) Kappa Sigma fraternity will 
merge with Pi Lambda Phi in 1978. The new frat, 
to be called Kappa Pi, will merge with Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon in 1982. This frat, which will be 
called Sigma Kappa Pi will merge with Zeta Zi 
(a frat created from the merging of ZBT and 
Theta Xi.) In 1988, three more National Frats 
will merge with this already large conglomeration. 
Sigma Nu, Pi Kappa Alpha, and ATO will merge 
with Sigma Kappa Pi Zeta Zi. This newer, larger 
fraternitv will then be named: Sigma2 Kappa 
Alpha Pi2 Zeta Zi. The large membership will be 
an asset at fund raisers, work sessions, and parties. 
Meetings will be held in the Skibo ballroom, and 
the one buggy that willbe raced will have seven 
drivers, and six pushers on each hill. It will be a 
fast buggy.
Prediction 7) President Cyert will fire Stanley 
Wangsmith, maintenance man, for alledged 
racketeering and gambling violations. Wangsmith 
will be opening a small, illegal casino in the 
tunnels underneath campus in 1978. In 1995, 
when Cyert discovers the casino, Wangsmith will 
be fired.
Prediction 8) The financial aid office will be 
besieged with requests for awards in an inudating 
frantic flow, starting in 1978. Students, many of 
whom lost vast fortunes in Stanley Wangsmith's 
underground casino, will need huge aid packages. 
Because the aid office will be unable to meet the 
demand for money, Bill Wegbreit, a Senior, will 
open his own loan office in Hamerschlag. 
Wegbreit, winner of an estimated 560,000 dollars 
at the CMU casino will drop out of AMS in order 
to be a loan shark to those who were refused 
financial aid packages.
Prediction 9) Because of the rise in the number 
of college students, and the hard fact that there 
are too many professional-minded students and 
not enough real workers, a few new majors will 
be instituted in the Fall of 1978. Vending with a 
Nonprofessional Sub-field in fish peddling will be 
added to AMS. Body guarding and security guard­
ing will be H&SS majors. Maytag Repairing will 
be an MIS major. It is probable that there won't 
be much to do as a Maytag repairman however.
Prediction 10) In 1978, the theme of Spring 
Carnival will be Violence in America. All booths 
will be modeled after a degenerate, some type of 
deviant behavior, or a famous murderer, rapist or 
ransacker. SAE's booth will be The Boston 
Strangler Game. SDC will have cock fighting. Evil 
Kenevil will perform on the I.M. field. The joust­
ing and tug of wars will be held over pits of 
boiling oil, and the buggy race will include a wall 
of fire on hill 3.
Prediction 11) In the year 2045, CMU will 
graduate its first class of Venerial engineers. 
There will be many job openings for these grad­
uates.
Prediction 12) In 1996, the Peer Help Center 
will open its doors to the poor and disadvantaged 
of the world. The organization will take over the 
duties of C.A.R.E. and UNICEF, and will 
function in much the same way as the Peace 
Corps does. It will be granted a 7 million dollar 
budget by Student Senate.
Prediction 13) In May of 1977, the sound 
system at graduation will not be functioning, and 
President Cyert will be forced to use a megaphone 
to deliver his address. Cyert, who will be fighting 
off what he thought was a bad cold, will infect 
the first seven rows of the graduating class with 
rocky mountain high fever, by the use of this 
megaphone. Unexpected special speaker John 
Denver will not be able to speak, due to the 
commotion caused by the ambulances sent to 
take the infected, diseased graduates to the hospi­
tal.
Prediction 14) Former President Richard 
Nixon will go the college guest speaker route, and 
will speak at CMU in 1979. His topic: "Phlebitis 
and computers in today's world."
Prediction 15) National Guardsmen will be sent 
to CMU to quell a disturbance on the Cut caused 
by irate students. Students will be protesting the 
closing of the Food Service Hotline to the direc­
tor. The telephone number, which was called 
approximately 300 times daily in the years 
1978—1987, was shut down because the director 
was devoting too much time to answering dumb 
questions.«

---------------------------------------------------

April 26.1977 - TARTAN - Page 15
INCORPORATING
CflRNEGIE-MELLDN
by Joan Livitski
Looking back over the history of CMU, many 
changes have taken place. With the increasing 
problems of keeping institutions of learning out 
of the red in the late 70's, it became necessary for 
the Board of Directors to meet and decide the 
university's fate. Instead of closing down the 
institution, it was agreed there was a greater 
chance of keeping the organization afloat by ad­
mitting to a profit making goal. And so was the 
formation of The Richard-Andrew Company of 
Knowledge, Education and Technology 
(RACKET). Dropping the surname in favor of 
their Christian names was thought to convey a 
feeling of personal involvement and to instill trust 
in prospective candidates towards the institution.
By incorporating the university, it was found 
that the under table dealings indulged, in over the 
years, though still not quite legal, were more 
readily accepted due to the increase in loopholes 
awarded big businesses. Complaints of lack of 
quality issued against Food Service are no longer 
seen as a rip-off but part of the profit making 
venture that any McDonalds, Hardees or Winkies 
would stoop to. To appeal to the RACKET'S 
elitist minded element, Morewood has turned 
into a supper club with entertainment by the 
drama and music students. Regretfully, reserva­
tions have become a necessity since the patronage 
far exceeded the speculation of the number in 
the class catered to. Men need not wear ties, but 
gym shorts and flood pants are unaccepted dress. 
Waitressing is done by the sorority girls and room
service is available in the co-ed Morewood Gar­
dens with food occassionally being served.
Housing facilities have remained much the 
same save for utilizing available space to its max­
imum potential by placing five or six people in 
what had been outrageous luxuries as doubles. A 
condominium has also been added, located on the 
once football field, now unnecessary as work has 
pre-empted sports. With school becoming a busi­
ness, it is now viewed as practical for students to 
invest in permanent residences since they will 
remain here till they are sixty-five. It was also 
observed that having students go through room 
draw that many times made them highly over­
anxious and too nervous to work at desired 
capacity.
Another missing element from the days of old 
is the sight of Security's vans circling campus. 
Since it incorporated, RACKET became just 
another part of Oakland's business district so it is 
up to the police to enforce order. Parking per­
mits have since become useless as the police are 
unable to devote twenty-four hours a day to 
ticketing violators as had been the case. The pre­
tense of providing security for students was relin­
quished when the administration declared it an 
unnecessary expense. It has become easier to deal 
with any radical or unruly individuals by placing 
them in work restricted areas. First time offenders 
are confined to Hunt Library while a recurring 
violator is sent to Science Library. If this does 
not put the student in line or for the extreme 
nonconformists, solitary confinement in the
computer room or language lab, where one must 
become fluent in the mating sounds of the mon­
goose, is considered just punishment.
The issuing of grades has kept its ominous aura 
but is done with greater frequency. The monthly 
computer issues listing of symbols has been given 
the added significance of credit in the RACKET 
stores. The catch is that anything other than a 
"$" (previously signified by "A") carries as much 
weight as a Confederate bond in a Union state. 
Real frustration comes when after playing "Let's 
Make a Deal" with your professors and getting 
the required grades, you must decide whether to 
purchase art supplies or an engineering text from 
the Bookstore or splurge it all on a bag of Oreos 
at Entropy.
Even now students struggle to make ends meet 
while the Board of Directors rake in multi-million 
dollar profits. President Cyert recently stated 
that, "Gramps had the right idea in keeping the 
job in the family, only he should have put the 
institution's resources to full use earlier in the 
seventies." The same complaint couldn't be 
substantiated against the present arrangement 
where art students' work is sold to the public and 
galleries; architects and engineers work on govern­
ment contracts; writing majors publish books and 
magazines; and psych students counsel patients all 
for the economic gain of the RACKET.
Lastly, let me comment on the social life of the 
students. There is none. Thought to be a need­
less expense and temptation, the administration 
voted to ban all social functions. Surprisingly 
enough this little bit of manipulative legislation 
basically went unnoticed by the students. Those 
few who did become aware of it expressed grat­
itude for the removal of what they termed "dis­
tractions." So life goes on with students devoting 
their lives to their work, hardly taking time to 
eat or sleep. Each is trying to make the grade 
and outdo his or her adversary to make a place 
in the RACKET.
Some things never change.«
ASCENT OF MAN
Tuesday Documentary Film Series 
Film times: 11-.30 & 12=30 Wherrett Room,Skibo
BRING YOUR LUNCH AND A FRIEND
APRIL 26lThe Long Childhood
We hope you enjoyed the series

---------------------------------------------------

ft
chance . . . tion; thus, I accomplish no work ... yet I knew
fl-PHVSICB 
FINAL
by Wendolf Dotson
The only company worse than oneself . . . 
obviously one's Physics notebook . . . allow me to 
elaborate on this form of loneliness . . . t'is as if 
there were someone, right in front of me, bub­
bling with exciting things to tell . . . but in some 
foreign language of which I could understand not 
a word . . . alas, I stare dully at a page of symbols, 
idly wondering how far the money in my 
pocket will get me on a Greyhound bus . . . realiz­
ing that it won't cover much more than the PAT 
bus fare to the station, my mind turns to more 
immediate methods of procrastination . . . the 
Servo-Heaven on the eighth floor, for example . . .
A chocolate milk and 190 calories later (having 
tired of reading the carton), I embark anew upon 
my search for bigger and better ways to stall time 
. . . the phrase "degrees of freedom" leaps from 
my jumbled blur of notes, mocking me . . . it's 
daring me to count the degrees of freedom I have 
. . . cautiously extending my fist, I commence to 
count, on my fingers (like any good MIS-CIT 
student), the alternatives life offers me . . . the 
bridge over Panther Hollow is rapidly disqualified
. . . death is an alternative to life, not in life . 
additional possibilities steal through my mind . . .
I pounce upon each, examining and eventually 
discarding all of them ... I won't quit school, 
hijack a plane ( to Antarctica ), or even defect to 
H&SS . . . the idea of flunking out of school 
becomes attractive, but I force it from my mind 
. . . that, I can do unintentionally ... my fist 
begins to shake uncontrollably as I realize that I've 
scored a big Zero ... no choice translates to no
Is it because my future is predestined? . . . per­
haps I'm just tiring of this charade . . . maybe it's 
the Physics . Physics! . . . \ start guiltily from 
my reverie . . . equations and conscience scream 
indignantly . . . "listen to us," they cry, "we hold 
the answers," . . . and suddenly, I see their truth 
. . . my energy is spent orthogonal to my direc-
this all along, just the first law of Killing Time 
not thoroughly unrelated to Einstein's Relativity,4^ ‘ 
that marvelous paradoxical effect wherein by 
speeding oneself up, one slows the turntables,. . . 
only now, by slowing my progress, I allow the 
world to rush by . . . leaving myself, always the 
unwilling spectator, to grow grey watching it .. . 
while drifting listlessly along . . . I'm drifting .. . 
just drifting . . .
"knock, knock" . . . who's there . . . "your 
conscience" ... I studied at the office . .. "then 
you're going to ace your final?" . . . well .. . 
"take two No-Doz, get plenty ot studying done, 
and call me in the morning" . . . but, but, but, .. . 
wait a minute . . . was I sleeping? . what time is 
it? . . . oh no! . . . maybe it's time to give up .. . 
after all, by conservation of effort, if I quit trying 
now and go to sleep, I'll accomplish moretomor- 
, row . . . now does that make sense? . . . well, we 
know that the CMU system is conservative . . / 
expecially the CMU students ... an evidence of 
this conservatism is that we, the student body, 
seem to cherish our isolation from the "real 
world" . . . most of us regard the "outside" with 
ambivalence, some even animosity . . . and what 
could be more natural than to shrink from what's 
"beyond," when this school keeps trying to 
pound us into cogs stamped, "The Professional 
Choice" . . . myself and hundreds like me come to f 
CMU each year, preparing to shape the future; 
only we find ourselves shaped to fit rather than 
fight . . . and after a few months, much less years, 
where does it leave us? ... a little sad, at a bit of 
a loss, but, above all, utterly uninspired ... I'm 
not a cold-blooded nerd; I can't work for the sake 
of working ... I'm warm-blooded; my life must
have purpose . . . but CMU has soured my ambi- < 
tion . . . leaving, in its place, a horrible taste of 
guilt which I fear will never leave me . .. this guilt 
that'infests every corner of the campus,communi­
ty can't replace real incentive: it's a negative rein­
forcer, and its effects are likewise quite detri­
mental ... I mean, something like that might 
make me bomb a Physics final . . . ¦
Some of the more then 500 courses end workshops offered ere:
? Workshop Courses for Educetors: Life Crises Situations, Sexuality, etc.
? Women's Studies: The Psychology of Women, Women and the Law, etc. 
? Archeological Field Training et Meedowcroft Rock she Iter 
? Short Session Courses: Accelerated Learning 
? Writing Workshop end Joumelism Courses 
? Pre-medical end Pre-lew Courses 
? Computer Programming
TUITION: $43 per credit for undergraduate Pennsylvania residents 
NO FORMAL APPLICATION NECESSARY
MAIL TO:
Off lot of Summer Stttions 
158 Cathadral of Learning 
University of Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260
Please send me your brochure on the 
University of Pittsburgh Summer desses:
NAME.
ADDRESS.
School currently attending
*

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 17
REMEMBRANCE ?F THINGS PAST
by K.A. Yaksich
The walls of the library were overgrown with 
generations of English ivy and cool skins of moss. 
The weathered stones of Margaret Morrison's 
foundation were soft, in some places, like large 
powdery brownies; they crumbled when anyone 
dared to rub against them. It seemed that 
Doherty Hall was several feet nearer Forbes 
Highway than on the original crackling blue prints 
preserved in the archives room, but no one was 
sure whether this was due to the natural, if nearly 
imperceptable pull of gravity on the land for 
nearly two centuries or to the expansion of the 
buzzing electric thoroughfare running past the 
school. Even the newest buildings, strangely in- 
congruent in their early modular style, had 
acquired that patina of age which softens and 
humanizes a structure. It also served to further 
contrast the campus with the “town", as it was 
called in a mixed emotion of affection and scorn 
by the student body, outside. Whereas the city 
had finally succeeded in engulfing the outlying 
areas in its grasp of steel and concrete, the Univer­
sity had struggled to maintain an aura of 20th 
century ease.
Deep within the archive room in the library, 
Marc Regan paged through the collection under 
the watchful gaze of Andrew Carnegie, who had 
finally stopped his wandering and was now
3uniiiiiiiiimHiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiimiimiiimiiiiiiiiiiimimiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii{Ë
interred, at least in portraiture, in that room. 
There was so much to learn from the carefully- 
preserved books, outside of their comparative 
rarity. There was a whole series of catalogues 
showing the campus in the last 20th century. 
Marc carefully turned a dry parchment-like page, 
and was struck by the photograph of the central 
plaza. Where the programmed signboard now
stood in deep shade, uiere once was a simple 
fence situated along a row of saplings. If he 
squinted, Marc could almost make out the letter­
ing on the cross beams. What is a mixer, he 
wondered half aloud. He flipped another page 
then leaned back in his chair, musing.
Within the campus' confines, real sod still 
cushioned the clusters of students who walked 
between classes or lounged beneath the huge 
flowering crabtrees which had been standing in 
the center of the campus long before any of the 
freshman class' grandfathers had been born. They 
had withstood freezing, fire, and repeated efforts 
by the administration to have them removed.
In fact, it had to be admitted that the entire 
University had withstood a lot. A trickle of 
students still passed through the "bookstore" 
to stock up on computer cards and magnetic 
text-tapes. They still sat in lecture halls, though in 
smaller numbers than before, absorbing selected 
bits and pieces of whatever information the 
teaching machines spewed into the classrooms.
There was still a dense bureaucracy; the tech­
nologists liked to joke among themselves that 
they were running the school's central electro­
computer system through the central nervous 
system of some long-gone college president who, 
by proxy, managed to hold on to existence as 
tenuously as the University itself.
Marc smiled to himself at the thought, then 
closed the book. But one statement stayed his 
hand. Underlined in faded blue ink was a line 
describing the architectural department. "Change 
is the only constant." In a neat round hand in the 
same ink, someone had added "Ah, but the more 
things change, the more they stay the same.«
University Food Sevice 
Announces
STUDY BREAK TREATS
Free to Contract Holders: -
(must show card)
coffee 
tea 
carbonated & non-carbonated 
drinks 
hot chocolate
KILTIE CAFETERIA, 9 pm - 6 am
May 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8th 
other snacks available
APPRECIATION DAYS ! ! !
The CMU Art Store and the CMU Bookstore say
"THANK YOU" to all our customers.
SAVE 10%
on all purchases in both stores on
APRIL 27,28, 29, 30
and again on
MAY 12, 13,16.
Now is the time to buy that handbook or 
calculator! Save 10% on paints, n***' .id
brushes! Drafting pens, ............. pencils,
all at 10% savings! All imprinted giftwares 
and clothing are included.
VALID CMU I.D. NECESSARY
Only exceptions: Textbooks, class rings in 
the Bookstore, Baker Hall; canvas and film 
in the Art Store, Skibo Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

senior party 
first reunion of the class of 1977
thursday, may 12,1977
(watch for details)

---------------------------------------------------

Pleasing their audience is the number 
3ne priority of the Pure Prairie League, and 
they’ve done so time after time, concert 
after concert. When it comes to soft rock, 
American bluegrass, country and folk, few 
groups do it better than PPL. The group 
proved their musical prowess to a Pitts­
burgh audience last Friday night when 
they headlined the A.B. Spring Carnival 
Concert.
A.B. once again proved themselves as 
masters of the situation of running, as 
usual, a smooth and tight show. There only 
seemed to be a few flaws in production, 
the most major of these being the insuffic­
ient sound equipment. A shoddy sound 
system for a concert is inexcusable and 
hopefully A.B. will rectify this deficiency 
in future events. Understandably, the 
blame is not entirely their own, for neither 
PPL’s or Joan Armatrading’s sound equip­
ment were of a very high quality.
It is also unfortunate that A.B. is forced 
to hold the bulk of their concerts in the 
gym, where the properties of acoustics 
seem to be non-existent. The audience, 
made up of students, were extremely polite 
and attentive considering the handicaps. 
The permeating fog of sweet smelling 
smoke did a lot to keep the bulk of listen­
ers in a mellow, listening state.
Joan Armatrading kicked off the con­
cert. Armatrading is a dynamite performer, 
she has an innate holding power over an 
audience. It was most unfortunate though 
that most of what the audience received, 
due to previously discussed conditions, was 
inaudible. One was lucky to catch one 
phrase per song. But her magnetism is un­
deniable and she held up her end of the
The half hour break was a bit long, but 
PPL was well worth waiting for.
The highlight of their act is usually their 
bluegrass. But in recent months, they’ve by 
choice been moving more toward rock ‘n 
roll. They might have added a bit more 
foot-stomping, hand-clapping, finger-pick­
ing bluegrass to the evening.
PPL presented a lot of new material, 
cuts of their latest album. The fresh music 
was nice, it was much more modern than 
we know them for. PPL is obviously trying 
to develop a new sound, a new image, and 
they’re tryine it out on the road. But 
they’re still at their best when they’re at 
their mellowest.
Musically, PPL is a very tight group. 
They function as an ensemble and work off 
of each other in a truly professional man­
ner. They’re not, like many groups, merely 
a collection of solo acts.
The> really only dipped back into the 
distant past twice, for their mandatory en­
cores. They returned to a standing crowd 
'to do Amie, (vintage 1972), and the 
obligatory Two Lane Highway.
PPL’s sound was enhanced by the fact 
that they had five voices, so most of their 
lyrics met the ear without too much distor­
tion. The overall effect of the concert 
was helped out by A.B.’s creative 
use of unusually stimulating lighting.
A.B. undoubtably knows how to put on 
a show. They know how to seek out the 
talent to make for exciting and involving 
evenings of listening entertainment. The 
sold out house is evidence of this. Now if 
they could only do something to clean up 
the sound system, there would be no set­
ting a limit as to the quality of perfor­
mances that they could produce. Let’s 
look into it A.B.!
SCOTCH 'N' SODA LACKS PERSONNEL
by David Chapman
When an original script is put into pro­
duction, it is not always the best policy 
that its author double as its director. Too 
often the author/director becomes the czar 
or czarina of the entire production. If this 
person is a renaissance genius who from 
considerable experience and background, 
can objectively view and critique their own 
work, all is well. Elizabeth Lynn, director/ 
author/actress, for Something Feudal, does 
not yet possess this ability.
Lack of personnel sometimes makes it 
necessary for a few people to take on the 
bulk of the responsibility in Scotch N’ 
Soda productions. While this is understand­
able, the distribution of responsibility 
should be carefully arranged as so to be 
most advantageous to the production. This 
was not done for Something Feudal.
From this situation came the main prob­
lem in the show, which was simply not 
knowing when enough was enough.
Economy in direction might have made 
some points in the show clearer, or in some 
cases, established focus where there was 
none. Miss Lynn often had extra actors on 
stage whose only function, seemingly, was 
to distract the audience from the impor­
tant actors who were telling the story. At 
times the viewer would be lost in a fog of 
movement, searching frantically as to 
where to look. Other times, the fog of 
movement would change to a stationary 
fog, with nothing but alot of bodies on 
stage. This became visually confusing for 
the audience, who never knew where to 
look.
The story was simple and needing 
underscoring. Alycia Kytler, a witch, and
Sir Harold of Nareshire, a nobleman, fall in 
love. It is only expected that nearly every­
one in the play will try to make life as 
difficult for the two as possible. But, in the 
end, the couple is united. Such a story is 
really rather simple to define on a stage as 
long as a director has some objectivity and 
is willing to cut those things which are not
sequence was very well done. Their singing 
was consistantly fine, pointed by some 
group acappella work. Some of the chorus 
talent might have been better used in 
larger roles.
Paula Winner, who played Alycia 
Kytler, handled the script she had with
MARK VELANDER AND PAULA WINNER IN “SOMETHING FEUDAL"
important. An author directing her own 
work has a tendancy not to want to make 
those cuts, believing every word is essen­
tial. The work seems timid because nothing 
ever comes out to make a point.
Although the overall impression of 
timidness was p revalent in Something 
Feudal, there was not this problem with 
those who played the serfs, The Chorus. 
Their energy showed they were enjoying 
themselves onstage. Their execution of the 
dance combinations showed some discre­
pancies, but one dance number, a dream
understanding, but her dancing was her 
strongest area. Sir Harold of Nareshire, 
who falls in love with Alycia, was played 
by Mark Velander. Mr. Velander was rather 
passive in the first act but picked consi­
derably in the second. Both Miss Winner 
and Mr. Velander had a solo and duet to 
sing. Vocally, the songs involved nothing 
that was too difficult for either singer. The 
songs themselves were roughly hewn.
The songs in Something Feudal lacked 
musical variety. They were too long, most 
having at least four verses or more. The ly­
rics had a tendency to be rather smug and 
just plain seedy, giving the feeling of an 
attack rather than something intended to 
entertain. Had the music director, Jerold 
Goldstein, been an outsider or the director 
more particular, perhaps the music might 
have come out a bit more refined.
The choreography, by J. J. Cole, was 
considerably more refined and planned, 
but, at times the dancing did not fall with 
the majority of the play as a whole. Some 
of the numbers were pleasing to watch but 
did not really match the mood of the 
songs. There was also a problem with 
costumes covering leg movements in the 
choreography.
The costumes, designed by Jana Rosen­
blatt, were quite colorful and bright. Yarn 
wigs were very clever and fitting. Miss 
Rosenblatt’s one problem was making cos­
tumes suitable to help, not hinder or co­
ver dancing.. The set, designed by John 
MacDonald, worked against the actors and 
the play. Levels and stairs had poor place­
ment, but this is as much the director’s 
fault as it is the designer’s. Lighting, by 
Phillip Almquist, was very wasteful. Mr. 
Almquist had over seventy lighting instru­
ments on the small stage and still had 
actors standing in the dark because of poor 
placement and focusing. Some of the walls 
in the Skibo Ballroom were light quite 
nicely, however. Again, the director should 
not have tolerated this as it is another 
distraction for the audience.
Something Feudal is full of distractions 
which might be traced to a director who 
lacks objectivity. Taking a large portion of 
responsibility is fine, but it must be done 
in a way that utilizes the resources of a 
company to yield maximum benefits.
ENTERTAINMENTPURE PRAIRIE
by Julie PriceIS SMOOTH AND TIGHT
evening quite admirably, shining especially 
in Send Me.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20 - TARTAN - April 26, 1977
THE MCGARRIGLE'S: FOLK AND FRENCH
''O
by David Lucas
Kate and Anna McGarrigle, a sister-act 
from Canada, have made a quiet splash in 
the folk music world. Their first album was 
a “sleeper hit.” A recent tour with Bonnie 
Raitt earned them as much good press as 
the blues singer herself. They were seen 
recently on Saturday Night Live and heard 
live on local radio station WYEP.
The McGarrigle’s second album is called 
Dancer With Bruised Knees. It is consis­
tently well sung and wonderfully irfTTtru- 
mentalized. Their voices are distinct 
enough to stand alone, but are perfectly 
compatible. They write much of their own 
material, and generally, the sister who 
wrote the tune is the sister who sings lead 
on it.
Dancer With Bruised Knees is comprised 
of folk tunes, folk-tinged tunes and French 
tunes. Some folk tunes, such as Southern 
Boys, Hommage a Grungie and Come a 
Long Way are palatable, but not distinc­
tive. Conversely, the brief No Biscuit Blues, 
written by Galt MacDermott and William 
Dumaresq, is humorous and a joy to hear.
The lower key, less “countrified” songs 
allow the personalities of the sisters to 
show through. Be My Baby sounds like 
Stevie Nicks (of Fleetwood Mack) singing 
with the Baja Marimba Band. “I don’t
know why I live at home, I don’t know 
why I sleep alone,” sings a lovelorn Anna.
Walking Song ambles along at a leisurely 
pace. Kate sings a personable lead and 
plays piano, while Gordie Fleming adds a
cat is a mystery, but if she were, it would 
make lyrics like “The birds in the trees cal! 
your name. Nothing’s changed,” all the 
more meaningful.
The title song, which begins with a male
delightful accordion. The simple, almost 
reverent strains of Kitty Come Home im­
prove with each successive listening. Anna 
sings over a sweet orchestration of organ, 
piano and recorder. Whether Kitty is a
narrator and the sisters’ humming, is an 
excellent number. The sweet harmonies are 
the icing on the cake, getting ever lovelier 
as the song draws to an end.
Kate and Anna McGarrigle are at their
best with traditional songs from their 
native Canada. Two traditional adaptations 
are presented back-to-back. Recorders, 
mandolins, harmonica, accordion, violin 
and organ are used to produce a deliciously 
medieval flavor. The harmonies intermingle 
delicately and instrumental solos are mixed 
in all the proper intervals. Blanche Comme 
la Neige is a French Snow White who is 
abducted by three randy captains. She dies 
before they can bed her. Three days later, 
her father hears her call, “Open my tomb. 
For three days I’ve feigned death to save 
my honor.” The words are sung in French, 
of course.
Perrine Etait Servante is the story of a 
girl who hides her boyfriend in a closet so 
her boss, a priest, won’t find him. She for­
gets him and he is eaten by the rats. Those 
French are such somber people!!
Naufrage Du Tendre, written by Anna 
¦McGarrigle and Phillippe Tatartcheff, is a 
bouncey number, sung in the McGarrigle’s 
Canadian French. George Bohannon 
throws in some saucy horn work while 
Andrew Cowan and Scot Lang spice up the 
choruses with some tangy electric and slide 
guitar. This is perhaps the most listenable 
tune on the album. Its combination of 
American beat and French romance make 
it extremely accessible to the popular ear.
In short, while Dancer With Bruised 
Knees should please folk lovers and soft 
rock fans, its beauty lies in the heart of its 
French Canadian heritage.
ART SHOW: FASCINATION WITH THE MINUTE
The Undergraduate Show 
An Art Review 
by Jim Nestor
As a pioneering effort, the organizers of 
the Undergraduate Show should be com­
mended. That this show was promoted 
solely by undergraduate students under­
lines that which can be realized by dedi­
cated individuals. Another unique aspect of 
this show was the jurying by an outside 
judge, Jeff Perrone, a New York critic.
In a society only too aware of mass 
media domination, it is refreshing to view a 
show which is representative of the particu­
lar values and ideas of individuals within 
the CMU community. The impact of any 
event which focuses an awareness upon 
prominent local personalities must be 
acknowledged. To submit to the values of 
Bob Dylan, T.V. advertising, and Holly­
wood films, such as Airport ’77, as the 
only values and communicative forms 
worthy of our attention, would suggest 
that expression is locked inexorably to the 
success of mass marketing techniques.
The miasmatic conviction that all inter­
esting ideas must come from someplace 
else, and be produced by someone else, 
tends to impair and undervalue the accom­
plishments of individuals in all fields within 
this University. One response, to combat
that stance, is to encourage extracurricular 
events, such as the Undergraduate Show, 
which attempt to communicate the attrib­
utes of a segment of the University, to the 
campus community at large.
Within the show, Cindy Kahn’s untitled 
print effectively uses embossing to corre­
late the geometric with the painterly, in an 
interesting way. In one of the two “Best of 
Show,” David Lenker’s Outward and 
Inward shows a controlled use of washes 
to present a closely valued interplay of 
cool greys and reds. However, the mount­
ing and mat of this work is awkward and 
distracting. Vivian Kerstein’s Chair & TV 
is a small but flashy use of serialization. 
Brian Richmond’s untitled multimedia 
work, the other “Best of Show,” is a 
strange and enchanting evocation. In this 
work, the scale, balance and selection of 
materials is especially appropriate and 
successful.
Other worthwhile works include two 
articulate photographs by Seth Dickerman, 
and a wood carving of the First degree by 
Lucy Russo. Also, an ingenious triptych by 
Steven Kibert, and a promising painting by 
Theresa Walsh must be mentioned.
Sadly lacking in this show are works of 
a larger size and scale. Admittedly, the 
dimensions of the Velar Gallery are pecu­
liar and difficult to mount an exhibit. 
Nevertheless, the majority of the works 
chosen tended to be precocious in size. At 
best, the smaller scale can be sparkling and 
lyrical, overly emphasized, the small work
approaches the trivial. These comments are 
not to condemn small work, so much as to 
suggest that the show was very narrow in' 
scope. As well as an apparent fascination 
with the minute, the show failed to include 
sculpture and crafts to any extent. Even 
the paintings hung lacked the scale neces­
sary to compete with the architecture.
Size is a criticism in the following 
manner: the viewer unless confronted with 
art, will rarely “go out of his way” to view 
the work. Further, to view a show of repet­
itively small works reaffirms the viewer’s 
conceptions of a safe, easy and “accept­
able” art, easy to hang, easy to carry, easy 
to do away with. These reflections may 
most clearly address the tastes and atti­
tudes of Mr. Perrone. This is an interesting
show, well worth the walk to the GSIA, 
but the show may not be fully representa­
tive of the variety and quality of the art at 
CMU.
Concurrently with the show was a lec­
ture by Jeff Perrone. The interest exhibited 
by students, both in the exhibition and the 
lecture, would be worth sustaining. Fur­
ther, the experience of subjecting artworks 
to the personal, and often peculiar interests 
of a practicing critic, is important. This 
competition roughly reflects the perplexing 
situation the artist must face in the art 
world.
The organizers of the exhibit were 
Michael Bokulich and Lucy Russo. Andrea 
Bryck was the SAC Advisor, and Wendy 
Osborne did the graphics.
Summer 
School 
in 
New Jersey
at beautiful Drew University in Madison • two 4- 
week sessions, beginning June 6 and July 5 • small 
classes, transferable credit, low summer rates* 
tennis and swimming • New Jersey Shakespeare 
Festival performances every night on campus (at 
special student rates)* housing available* day and 
evening classes • for catalog call or write Dr. Mark 
Lono, Drew University, Madison, New Jersey 
07940; 201-377-3000, ext. 352.
We have a few openings, in the vineyard Come labor with us. The hours are long. The pay is low. All we promise is the opportunity to help others and a quiet pride in your work. A few people will even thank you. One will be eternally grateful His name is God
If interested in studying for the Catholic Priesthood, contact: Father O’Toole, Pittsburgh Diocese,
111 Blvd. of the Allies, 15222 or call 412-456-3070.

---------------------------------------------------

April 26, 1977 - TARTAN - Page 21
DANCE SEASON ENDS IN FINE FORM
MIDNIGHT MANIA 
SAYS 
GOODBYE TO CMU
AND
WITH SPECIAL EMPHASIS 
THE RASTAMEN' OF D-14, TYRONE, BILL AND CONNIE, CHAZ, PAUL 
NURDS, CHRIS BLOCH, HUGO ZONEBALL, MIKE B., OTHELLO & 
FAMILY, DR. SNOW, GREG, OCKI, DILLDACK, FICTION WORKSHOP, 
ANDREW R., ALL OF DOHERTY AND WOODLAWN, R. SCHERER, 
SIGMA NU, AND OF COURSE, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA GEEKS, 
BUBBA TOO! ALSO!
THE GO BLOW PROGRAM KICKS 
IT FOR THE LAST TIME THIS
THURSDAY, STARTING AT 
MIDNIGHT
ENDING AT THREE A.M. FRIDAY
MORNING
for the weekend.
per day plus l2c 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
National s low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the mountains, 
or wherever Non-discountable rate available Friday noon to Monday noon 
You pay for the gas you use. and return car to renting location. Call for 
reservations today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) (182-1444.
550 Grant Street 261-5500 '
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262*2312
We feature GM cars.
PKAWi nsthi:W ,e :oArpi ahWoesW reWh:i
by Knox Uguccioni
The Pittsburgh Dance Council con­
cluded its ’76— ’77 season with a visit from 
the Pennsylvania Ballet. This Company is 
one of the very best dance companies out­
side New York City and in their recent 
engagement they gave dazzling perfor­
mances and demonstrated once again their 
command of all forms of dance, from 
classical ballet to jazz to modem dance.
The evening began with Serenade, the 
first American creation by choreographer 
George Balanchine. It is set to music by 
Tchaikovsky and has a powerful lyric 
quality. “Simply dancers in motion to a 
beautiful piece of music.” The dancers 
moved freely from classical to modern 
idioms as the music demanded, sometimes 
dancing in rows a la bolshoi; at other times 
juxtaposing severe classical movements 
with expressionistic modern moves.
Always there was elegance and control, 
even in the most exuberant dances. 
Dancers mirrored each other and suddenly, 
with a few subtle steps, would be dancing 
together, en masse. Occasionally soloists 
introduced the variations which led from 
one movement to the next. These always 
followed the music, responding to changing 
moods and recurring themes.
Technically, the dancing was first rate. 
Steps were executed crisply and precisely
The rest of the dance was well done and 
encompassed a wide range of dance forms; 
Ballet, jazz, modem dance and even a 
smattering of gymnastics. It was jazzy, it 
was bold, it was beautiful but above all, it 
was fun.
And so, with these fine performances, 
the Pennsylvania Ballet company con­
cluded the Dance Council season. But it 
was just the beginning of the Pennsylvania 
ballet month. Running through May 14, it 
was proclaimed in tribute to one of the 
finest companies in the country.
MIDNIGHT MANIA. THURSDAY AT MIDNIGHT ON WRCT 88.3 FM
and their seemingly effortless execution 
made Serenade a joy to watch.
Next on the program was The Moor’s 
Pavane, a dignified courtly dance using the 
tragedy of Othello as its theme. It presents 
Othello as the jealous husband who 
murders his wife for her supposed unfaith­
fulness. Choreographer Jose Umon uses 
the basic advancing and retreating move­
ments of the pavan, or court dance, to tell 
the story as well as to develop characters 
by examining relationships between them. 
Othello and his friend are outwardly 
friendly, as are their wives, but gradually 
the power struggle between the men in­
creases and culminates in the tragic mur­
der, which was purposely incited by 
Othello’s friend.
The entire dance was very stylized and 
reminiscent of renaissance processional 
dances. Dane LaFontsee danced a very 
powerful and exciting Moor. The other 
dancers were good, but failed to develop 
well-defined individual characters. This 
problem was aggravated by the costumes 
which were confusing when one tried to 
identify the characters. Othello’s robe was 
too dark and subdued and the friend’s wife 
was too obvious in her brilliant orange 
gown. The distinction between major and 
minor characters should have been more 
carefully controlled, both in costuming and 
dancing.
clowns. They are devoted to the beautiful 
and elegant queen of the mobiles. 4
It was a symphony of movement, rang­
ing from a cacophony of motion, not unlike 
a circus, to slow and simple motions 
suggesting mobiles. Dancers became Calder 
sculptures, alive with motion, constantly 
changing. They were toys come alive and 
they were kids having fun.
Corolla was danced by Michelle Lucci 
and her fantasy pal was danced by Dane 
LaFontsee, an unscheduled understudy, 
but excellent nevertheless. Sherry
Lowenthal was queen of the mobiles and 
she spent much of the time aloft, held by 
four dancers in black. Unfortunately, they 
did not give the impression of a weightless 
mobile. The lifts were very shaky and 
unsure and she seemed to be in danger of 
crashing to the floor at any moment.
The best word to describe the final 
dance is ‘fun.’ Titled Under the Sun, it was 
inspired by the work of Alexander Calder; 
his mobiles, mechanized sculpture, his toys 
and his circus. It is a fantasy about Corolla, 
the sun child, and her adventures with the 
fantasy family, a group of jazzy, circus
National Car Rental 1

---------------------------------------------------

WUCtNSBURG 
yfu cfl 11
$3.50, $2.50 and $1.50 are on sale at the 
Heinz Hall box office and ticket counters 
in area department stores. Group discounts 
are available by phoning (412) 281-8185.
Oh! Calcutta!, continues its national tour
at the Stanley Theatre in Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, April 27th and Thursday, 
April 28th for two days only. Curtain will 
be 8 pm. The projection has never toured 
the United States and has never played the 
Pittsburgh area. Ticket Scale: $8.00, $7.00 
& $6.00. For box office information call- 
391-7427.
artist, currently the Curator of Exhibitions 
at the Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, 
will present a collection of oil paintings on 
canvas, that will be on view through 
May 21. For further information please 
contact us at 687—4343.
MISC.
ART
Kingpitcher Gallery will end its season with
an exhibition of work by Paul Binai. The
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy, Pittsburgh's
thriving modern dance repertory company, 
present their second major concert. The 
ALLOY will perform Friday, May 6th and 
Saturday, May 7th at Kresge Theatre, in 
the Fine Arts Building of Carnegie-Mellon 
University. The performances begin at 
8:00 pm and are free to the public.
HOLIDAY INN—PARKWAY 
EAST
915 Brinton Road 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15221 
Telephone (412) 247-2760
Special discounted room rates for 
CMU Graduates' Guest —$32.00- flat 
rate $26.00
H ¡¦¦milQMMnpNPCTVMav « i1, m jEVENTS
MUSIC THEATRE
Trumpet star Harry James and his Swinging
Band come to Heinz Hall on Wednesday 
evening, April 27 at 8 pm, sharing the 
program with Woody Herman's Thundering 
Herd. Tickets to all events are on sale at 
the Heinz Hall box office and ticket 
counters in area department stores.
William Steinberg, Music Director Emeritus
of the Pittsburgh Symphony, and Edith 
Peinemann, renowned German violinist 
come together as guest conductor and 
soloist with the Pittsburgh Symphony in 
concerts April 29, 30 and May 1. Perfor­
mances scheduled for Friday at 8:30 pm, 
Saturday at 8 pm and Sunday at 2:30 pm 
mark Dr. Steinberg's first return to the 
Heinz Hall podium since his retirement as 
Symphony Music Director last spring. 
Ticket information is available by phoning 
the Heinz Hall box office at 281-5000.
The Pittsburgh Symphony conducted by
Donald Johanos continues its 15th year of 
free city-sponsored concerts with a per­
formance in Heinz Hall, Thursday, May 3, 
8 pm, featuring the winner of WQED-FM's 
Three Rivers Piano Competition.
Tickets for the free concerts can be 
obtained through the Parks and Recreation 
Department or from community groups. 
Only residents of the City of Pittsburgh are 
eligible for free tickets.
Pittsburgh's Iron Clad Agreement, the first
traveling industrial repertory theatre 
company in America, will open its reper­
toire to the general public for the first 
time beginning May 8 and running through 
May 14 at the Old Post Office Museum on 
the Northside. This test run in Pittsburgh 
will be followed by a series of summer 
performances at this same location and will 
act as a prelude to The Iron Clad 
Agreement's visit to Scotland where they 
will perform for the Edinburgh Inter­
national Festival.
Treasure Island one of the most popular
adventure stories in all literature, comes to 
Heinz Hall in a special stage production 
with music to entertain young audiences, 
playing five performances May 9—11.
The five shows of "Treasure Island" are 
set for May 9 and 10 at 11 am and 7 pm, 
and May 11 at 7 pm. Tickets priced at
Vocal and chamber music by student
composers at Carnegie-Mellon University 
will be premiered Wednesday, April 27 at 
8 pm in Alumni Concert HalFon the CMU 
campus. The concert is free and open to 
the public.FANFARE THEATRE ENSEMBLE 
PER FORMING TREASURE ISLAND
PITTSBURGH DANCE ALLOY REPERTORY COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

"Rites of Spring” — a dance-concert extravaganza
Celebrate the end of school withCHRISTOPHER’S RYE,
a dynamic dance band, one of Pittsburgh’s finest
BOB McKEAG (former lead singer for Diamond Reo) & FUN,
with their latest hit single,“Gimme Some”
Saturday Night from 8—12, Ski bo Ballroom, Free Admission 
Sponsered by A B’s TGIF Committee

---------------------------------------------------

PKA, SN, CIA, ATO, SAE, BTP WIN SWEEPSTAKES 77
Shamlian Aftermath of meeting of Fringe 
and KSShamlianJay Duquette strides on Hill 4 
for ATOShamlian

---------------------------------------------------

euaqi~] ut pajajsiBaj 
si asja^iuf) S S ¿41
opojofoj Jo rfjisjaniu/-) aiy; 
iy;im pa/oi/i^D rtflDJujjapDJty
sSltlllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIVimHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIItltllllllllllllllllimillHlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllinNIUlK
uoisiaiq 9f) :u»v 
«¿¿9-18S ( frU) XS926 VD SII!H 
eunBc"j 88W *°E O d ‘ SPI9
i*a NOuvDnaa 
QMV09dIHS HOd 
3XD1LLSNI auoLtd ìo dJM/Y\ 
N008/Y\3IA MOIOD 33HJ 
sn uiop a&?/SoA 
p|jo/Y\-ampunoj 
e uo ‘8Z.6I ‘S3 q^J s|ies asjaAiuf) s s aqx
VHS XV 
H31S3W3S
e qjim 1331QD a5a|jOD 
jnort oj uoisuaunp 
leuoqeujaju! /v\au e ppy
«DIDVVi ^IDVia„VIDE
-joq sqj TA 5(onjj jpqj oj ^OBq RJNAT puB 
RAh Xjunoss A ui jnd JAe XSSnq ARTExJ
«N33nò vnaa,,aia z9MI -e imi JB x3Sncl OIV 9MJ psddojs«0HD3„dia 1jbo pBSj 3qj puB S3[Bq Xsq aqj jiq saiSSnq
s rwe
uSissa
«Di* 3VS£Z
qjog -uoisiiioo b SuisnBO X38nq njvj buiSi§ 
aqj jo juojj paj33A umj sqj ojui 3uiuioo 
spis qjno aqj uo sbm qoiqM X83nq Bjag 
aqj jeqj juiod siqj jb sbm ji £ ipq oj qoBOJ 
-dde aqj oj dn puB n°J99Ji i° JJ?d joìbui
sroo^e«a« aoNrajzzaqj jnoqSnojqj ubj Xsqj Moq si qoiqM 5foau
V9SZu8n aia\z5joau 3J3M Xsqj iijun <tS38» 9MJ u0 ure9
LOS'Z«v„ «n dozoj ireSsq „J3RTcut 3qj jBqj sisq JAe Tx pire
YOS’Z«a» JNe61sjey sqj pajajua Xsqj JA Bjsg puiqsq qjSusj
L' 6YZuV„ 3VS•81X88nq b jnoqB sbm X33nq nf^ Butìig sqx
0'9*Z«v„ lazLIOIV PUB MS Xq p3MOf[OJ ‘JSJIJ H°J3SJJ
9‘ZYZ«v„ na91psjsjus Bjag UMOp uiaqj mojs cT psjBadds
Z’ZVZ«V„ S^iSIX38nq jaiABaq aqj sb 1 ipq uo jo qjSuaj
Z’Li-Z.3« V^IdPIX83nq A uiqjiM iATJ jnq pjnoo uresj qsnd
Z'9VZ«v„ DasTI«V„ JPMJ Suisn Bjsg ttg„ dxg puB tty„
0£ZZ«a» odZ\n^ ARxvxJ ‘tty„ OIV J° pajsisuoo Tx jaqjo
S9WZ«V„ 1)MirqoB3 TJRxAvA sduiij XjBUiunidjd TJJTJAT qjxis
20VZuV„ aia01puB qjjnoj ‘ puooas sqj paosjd jBaq TJTxT
S'OVZuV„ VID6sqi 'sjsaq jsijBuy ceT aqj aureo jxa]sj
S9'6Z:Z..V,, OIV8SP-Z ut Xbmb jbj jou X8Z Z'ZP-Z J°
SZ6Z-Z«8„ V^Id'L3unj b ut jsjy 8urqsiuy 8i§ BddB^j psMoqs
l'SZ-Zt<a» dia930BJ mojs pire jnjjusAa ub pu® 8utuuiu
S9Z-Z«a» uCJSI8Z Pub 8i§ BddB^ mbs jBsq jsjij aqx -uiij
09Z-Z«a„ oivP3J3M sjBsq JB[n8sj sqj TJTTA ¡pj psXB[sp
6’PZZ«a„ viD'£3J3M ure 00:6 J0J psjnpsqos sjB3q luuiniB
SPIZ'ZuV„ NSZsqX -3zud 8iq sqj qjiM suioq Sui^ibm S3i8
8 LYZ«V„ VXdI-8nq jq2p jo suo Xub pBq SABq pjnoo XBp
9uniXSSngSOBJJ
-mjBS uo unj sq oj sjBsq jsqBuy sqj jbsX 
jsbj psjnjijsui s8uBqo 3jnj sqj oj sna
aoBy
•XBpjnjBg
uo unidj b 8uijja8 qjoq XHZ Pub buiSis
BddB>i qjiM(i‘82:3) «a» dia Pub (8 93:Z)
SnnSH« 1VI3IJ JONTÌ À9DÌ1H
SDNIONV1S 
ADDng wNid
M1XIS itg„ dia Pub ‘MVU „3,, 3VS 'ilJJnoj 
<*a„01V ‘pjym „8,, V13 ‘puooss tty„ NS 
‘jsjij My„ :sjsm s8uipuBjs [BUIJ Sqj
psfjjss pBq jsnp 3qj puB soBjd JTx ui jnd 
JAe XBp am jo jusuisjpxs sqj Jsjjy
•puBjs pinoM ssunj sÀep jsjy 
Sqj jBqj P33j8e SEM 1! pUB pSJJSOUBO SJSM 
sjusas sXBp sqj jsqj JSAup oiV 3lH MJlM 
SOUSJSJUOO B JSJJB SBM JJ UOIJOB JO SSJnOO
ipqj sppsp oj JsqjsSoj jo8 psAiOAUi usui 
-jreqo X88nq snouBA sqj sb ijsm sb sjBpyjo 
puB ss3pnf sjzzup oj uBSsq ji puB sgZ'Z J° 
suitj b ut uni sji psjsiduioo pBq ji jsjjb puB 
jsjij um-sj sji psMOflB sbm tty„ OIV
•jssq jBqj jo um-SJ b sq oj sbm 
sjsqj jBqj psppsp sbm ji pus pspjoosj jou 
sjsm ssuiij ‘ssjnoo flnj B ubj ssiSSnq ssjqj 
j|B qSnoqjjB puB jjbjs ssjbj b pssnso jsjjbjs 
sqj Xq flBO souspBO XjjnBj b sb jsjjsq 
ou psjBj tig„ 3VS PUB ttg„ VI3 ‘„y„ V)id 
jo pssuduioo jssq jsqBuy puooss sqx
UTU-3J B pSJUBlS OSJB
sbm paddojs sbm qorqM OJLV puB^s aunj 
s,auo Xsp jaj oj 3{qB usaq 3ABq pinoM 
bui3is payi^Bnbsip Xyjusnbasuoo puB ^jnBj 
}B sbm Bjag jbi[} uonBJaqqap qonui isjjb 
psjtu sbm li ynqun sbm jaAUp s^Bjag pus 
5fDnjj jpqj oj )pBq paujBD sbm paqsqouiap 
X|iibj sbm qoiqM XS8nq Bjag aqj[ -aAijBSau 
paAOid sXbj-x sidqM iBjidsoq aq; oj ua^Bj 
sbm JdAup X33nq jpqj puB i ¡pq jo uioj
|
1
3|qO|!DAO SijDDUS 
LJI8 PUD ‘9 '9 > 'e ins
tuo 9 • uid 6 viaaiadVD 3mix
0|D|ODOL]D |OL|
S>jUljp
pejDuoqjDD-uou 5 peiouoqjDD
d ei
00^03
(pjDD MOl^S isnui)
:sjap|OH nKkkblec yt eejj
$iv32ii »vada xanis
se»unouuv
asjAes pooj Ai;sj9Ajun
...........................................
3VS ‘(0 9Z-Z) »8» OIV ‘(VPVZ)
VI3 \SV\Z-Z) nN ‘18 AI:3) BlidlV 
BddB^j y aq o^ ajaM omj Xbp joj xis jbuij 
aqj ‘uaqj ‘XBp jsjij aqj jo pua aqj jy
•op UBO
uoijBuipjooa jBqM aas XjisBa ubo auo puB 
JBaX siqj Xjojs aqj p|Oj yojja [BDiuBqaaui 
auy b qjiM pajdnoo uiBaj qsnd pajnoj 
Xiq3iq jpqx VSVZ Suuajsqq b qjiM 
Suiujnj spsaq sajdoad pBq pBnbs B]ag jasdn 
jou ji pajBJjsnjj aq; puB uSisap joj X9§nq 
sii Xji^Bnb oj uru-aj b uaAi3 sbm Bjag
’8'PZ'Z
jo auiy jua[|aoxa 26 2. jqSnoaq urea; 
yi3 sqj auojB asinoo sqj uo pire 2.2197 
6 uaAiS 96, XSSnq yj^ 3qj^ 177 jBapj
•8 92:3 ÌBau?i
3qj 8uissojo gfy§ qjiM puooss QIV 3ai8 oj 
0'9Z'Z u? auioq ji ìjooj pus X83nq gyS 9Mi 
dn psssBd QIV J0J isuusqjo^j 3j3j ojs 
-zo^ qog Xq p ||iq uo iiojjs jadns aqj oj 
anp X83nq sb^ij qjiM qasaj jo jno jadiB^ 
Q f psaqB X[jq8qs sbm gy§ a§uBqoxa
S-t7 aqi jo3 saiSSnq QIV Pub gyS SV 
puooas joj aq oj sbm ajaq apreq aqj iBqj 
y^aj pjnoo auo y^jj Xq aajqi uo dn^aid 
UBap b jajjB puB ajnqo aqj ui jaqqnj auios 
isoj OIV 'Punpq asop gys puB QIV 
qjiM jsjy ¡{ojaajj ojui puB doj aqj jbao 
sbm y^id ttg„ gys puB ttg„ QIV suiBaj 
psqo^Bui XjU3A3 omj u33Mjaq puooas JOJ 
ajUBq sqj sbm suo siqj ui uoiidbjjjb psppB 
sqi S'irZ J° 3UITi B u? 3uiujnj qsiuy oj
JJBJS UIOJJ pSJIBJJ J3A3U Xsqj SB UIB3J y^J
sqj Xq jjojjs qjsdns 6 ,69 Xsq^ suo siq; 
ui j[B )i joS sjojBjasds aqx -01 l^H
sauni 9£:j qjiM dn 
paqsiuy qjoq qiq Pub DOS ‘SVIZ-Z J° 
3unj 3Aiss3Jduii Xj3a b qjiM qsiuy oj jjbjs
uiojj pssqB sbm uresj qsnd poo8 b tipunoj,. 
8uiABq n{^ bui3is puB Xjqjoouis jusm 
3DBJ 3qi \tg„ aia PUB ttv„ nN buiSis 
snsj3A My„ 3as P«M 6 ^an -6 
T90-e W HVS Pu® SS'Si'-Z ui dn paqsiuy 
13Z u3is3P joj XjifBnb pjnoo Xsqj }Bqj 
os J3jB{ unj oj p3MOf|B sbm jnq p3yi|Bnbsip 
sbm Bjsg jps3J b sy 'sjaaqM joq sqj ojuo 
pjoq jtupinoD puB uo saA0j3 ou pBq spaqv* 
juojj s4Bjsg uo usui jno Xjjbo aqj asnBDsq 
psddojp sbm XSSnq sqj jBqj p3jB|no3ds 
si ji puB >pruj 3qj ui sbm ji 3nq^ XSSnq sqj 
ojui SuijjsS ssjqnojj siq psq J3Aup Bjsg sqj 
jBqj poojsjspun si ji ‘jsjij ‘dn ¡noj aqj joj 
SUOSB3J JO 3[dnOD B 3J3M 3J3qj jBqj suiaas 
JI uBSaq aoBJ 3qj sb suo [jiq dn SupBj 
sbm ji jsqj os XSSnq sqj ujhj oj XjajBjadsap 
pauj ‘jaqsnd suo jjiq stBjsg ‘JB^oig sonjg 
•3J3qj ji jjaj puB jqSiaq jsibm uiojj X23nq 
sqj psddojp M3J3 jno Xjjbo aqj jBqj auq 
Suijjbjs sqj uiojj J33J Xjusmj jnoqE JB ‘SBM 
JI -3uq Suijjbjs sqj spjBMOj papBaq msjo 
jno Xjjbd 3qj pus >jonjj aqj uiojj panama 
X33nq Bjsg sqj g jo junoo sqj jy -unj 
oj sjsm Xaqj jBqj payijou uaaq J4upsq Bjag 
jsqj >{uiqj oj UBSaq auo ‘oi uiojj paouaiu 
-uioo iiMopjunoo aqj sy 'aui] Suijjbjs 
aqj oj Xbm jpqj apBui tt3„ gys puB tiy„ 
iaz uoijijaduioo s4Bjag jBqj asijou p^noo 
auo uaAiS sbm Suiujbm ajnuiui aqj sy 
unj ttoqog„ XSSnqMau stBjag aas.oj jaSsa 
ajaM (JB puB 8 ui pa^npsqos sbm ‘jxg 
‘S3JU0ABJ 30BJ-3Jd 3qj JO SUQ ~8 I^H
'3UIJ
qsiuy sqj psssojo ji JA JBq qsnd 3qj
uo puBq siq 3ABq jou pip Jaqsn4ÉB^^]|u; 
jpqj asnBosq psyi[Bnbsip 
PUB 9^2172 c .8 psqsMMM|ttMp'jBqj 
SOBjd LjJU9A3S JOJ SBM
JBqj pus ‘S9'i£:£ sbm sw^P^jnq jsjij 
sui{ qsiuy sqj ssojdb qsnd pip X3§nq dB-^ 
iqj sqj puB sjs3usj|BqD sqj sq oj sjsm ity„ 
na pue ttg„ njM bui§is 'L jesq ui pBq Xsqj 
JBqM Moqs oj ssuBqo jpqj pBq ‘sjbsX usj 
jSBd sqj joj X33nq ui sjspusjuoo joÌbui 
sqj jo suo ‘Bjsqx BddB^j iqj -¿ JB3H
S9 6Z-Z
jo 92..7 [Bioyjo 26 qjiM dn pspus 964677 sqj
jo pBsqB sbm qoiqM tty„ QIV '^P puooss 
sqj uo psjsiduioo Xsqj qoiqM 8i§ BddB^i 
oj uiusj b jo SuijubjS sqj puB sSuijj 
jo uotjBoyqBnbsip sqj Supq suioojno jBnj 
-usas sqj qjiM psqsBJO qjoq puB papinos 
saiSSnq aqj Xpuanbasuoo ‘BiuSig BddB^j uo 
ui jno a3uuj aoirejsip jjoqs b jsjjb puB i 
XXTM JJ° sureo Xaqj sb jaqjo qoBa qjiM apujs 
joj apujs ajaM sSuuj pire buiSis BddB^i 
•jsjij noJ93JJ psjsjus Xsqj sSbjubapb 
jbsjS jpqj oj puB pssqB Suyjnd QIV UJI^ 
psjJBjs tty„ QIV Pus \ty„ 33uijj ‘uy„ 
BiuSig BddB^f -3nqM b joj anuijuoo pus 
ajaq jjbj oj sbm ^onj peq ajop^ -9 jbsh
• Se OO:£ J^puiqsq 
jbj sSuuj pus 0 ££-Z Jb puooss dB^i iqj 
qjiM greZ-Z JB JB3M 9MJ ui jsjij psqsiuy 
B5JIJ puB 5 IJiq JSAO SSBSJOUl OJ SBM pBSJ 3qX 
•sqjSusy XSSnq £ Xq pssqB sbm bjjij ‘jb 
sSuBqoxa sqj jb puB jno ji psjjnS n9SsnH 
qog ubui p [{iq b^jij sqj jeqj usqj sbm 
JI P IH1! jo XjuofBUi sqj puB £ fliq jo \\v 
jsao >{osu puB >psu sbm ji sjsqM dn-^oid £ 
]jiq sqj jb ì45(bsjjs„ sqj jqSnBO pire uib§b 
uo sureo usqj X§8nq b^ij sq^ -jusuin 
-uoui sqj jbsu Xjjus dB>j iqj sqj Xq pssssd 
XpnjusAS sjsm pus |pj33jj jnoqSnojqj 
psjsduiBq sjsm Xsqx ‘nojsajj ojui jsjij 
aqj 3J3M puB Suojjs JJO psjJBjs SB5JIJ sqx 
•$ jBsq joj JsqjsSoj jo§ ttg„ sSuijj puB 
‘t.a„ dB^ iqd ‘ttg„ y>id Xsp sqj jo ssobj 
Suijpxs 3Joui sqj jo auo ui -§ jbsh
L'6YZ J^ P9qsiuy 3y§ puB s oe^ 
alqBjosdssj b psMoqs sjjojjs aiG 9MJ sllTM 
5{0Bq sqj [jb jsao puB n0J99JJ jnoqSnojqj 
SuipBsq uSissp ui puooss ^00j jBqj 
X33nq sqj ui ¡|oj poo§ ¡Bnsn jpqj SuijjsS 
sjpp sqj qjiM suo siqj ui jjo psJBnbs
.«v„ aia pub tty„ gys ~p jb3H
JB puiqsq ssop 
oas MJ!M I'0£:3 ui sui[ qsiuy sqj passojo 
buiSis BddB)i ’JB3q qjuiu sqj jijun UMoqs 
suiij jssq sqj sb puBjs oj sbm qoiqM \ 8Z:Z 
jo suiij b ui Suiujnj jBsq sqj jnoqSnojqj 
psj puB uoijijsduioo sqj jo pssqB ttS3lllU„ 
‘XBMB pus JBJ ‘ JJOJS3JJ OJUI pUB OMJ 
Hiq jo doj sqj jsao sbm Bjag -ssujus ttg„ 
l af>ed uìoj^ penuijuoa
SZ 9&ed - NVltìVl - ¿¿61 '92

---------------------------------------------------

Concrete Canoe Wins Big at Princeton
by Lynn Ritter
The Eastern Invitational Concrete 
Canoe Race at Princeton University on 
April 23 was attended by 18 schools. 
CMU defeated Bucknell, Case Western 
Reserve, CCNY, Clarkson, Columbia, 
Cornell, Lehigh, N. J. Institute of Techno­
logy, Temple, SUNY-Buffalo, Union and 
West Point. CMU won the men’s, women’s, 
mixed, and faculty events and the design 
competition. Each event consisted of pre­
liminaries, semi-finals, and finals over a 
400 meter course on Lake Carnegie on the 
Princeton University campus.
In the men’s event, an excellent perfor­
mance was turned in by both CMU teams. 
Tony Digioia and Tony Victor took first 
place with a time of 2:50.8, paddling in 
CMU’s longer boat. Vince Lascko and Stan 
Diamond came from behind, in CMU’s 
slower boat, to nose out the City College 
of New York (CCNY) team in punishing 
3:05.8. Both teams had their fastest time 
of the day.
The women’s event brought similar 
results: two CMU boats were followed by 
CCNY. Audrey Goldstein and Lynn Ritter 
paddled to first place with a 3:42, followed 
by Kim McCalla and Jann Caywood with 
a time of 3:53. CCNY placed a distant 
third.
CMU’s Judy Parker and Seth Pearlman 
powered to a convincing win in the mixed 
competition with a time of 3:10.1. They 
were trailed by CCNY.
In the faculty division, Red Whittaker 
and A1 Dunlop had no problems finding 
the finish line, and they did it with a con­
vincing 2:52. The next boat was about 
200 meters behind.
For the icing on the cake, CMU won the 
design competition for the first time ever. 
The silver bowl for the “Best Boat” finally 
was awarded to the boat that every compe­
titor now recognizes as the best boat on 
the circuit.
In the overall competition, CMU was 
first with 285 points, CCNY second with 
188 and Bucknell third with 50 points. 
CMU received a travelling trophy engraved 
“Grand Champions;” a very appropriate 
label after a fine season by the CMU con­
crete canoe team.
Princeton’s race day was exceptional. 
Their organization and execution was the 
best. Many “extras” enhanced the general 
atmosphere of the race. A men’s choral 
group from the University performed at 
the race site and lunch was available. Miller 
provided a beer wagon and the overall 
trophies. In order to arrive at CMU in time 
for the carnival parties, the concrete canoe 
team passed up the planned dinner and 
party at Princeton and drove nonstop to 
Pittsburgh to get back at 11:30 on Satur­
day night.
Like CMU’s Buggy Sweepstakes, suc­
cessful canoe racing requires organization, 
technology and athletic ability. CMU 
produced a 20 foot canoe in addition to its
Last Wrights for Athletic Departmemt
by I.M. Wright
For the last issue of the TARTAN for 
the 1976-77 school year, I thought that I 
would like to talk about a few things that 
happened during the past year, as well as 
a few new comments. I would like to 
thank the people who complained to me or 
gave me some information, whether they 
meant to or not. For example, Mr. Birdy 
did not mean to leave the memo for me to 
read, which I used as the basis for my first 
article. Since the memo was not marked 
“TOP SECRET” or “CONFIDENTIAL” at 
the top, Mr. Birdy did not read the memo 
and then destroy it. One other possible 
reason for not destroying the important 
document was the small Intramural budget, 
which does not have enough money for a 
paper shredder. While looking for some 
intramural scores, I happened to read the 
memo and later write my first article, 
much to the dismay of the Athletic Dep­
artment.
One of the complaints that 1 received 
concerning my past articles has been my 
constant criticism of the Athletic Depart­
ment without any praise. I would like to 
correct that situation. I think the resur­
facing of the tennis courts and the addition 
of lights has been one of the best things 
that the Athletic Department has done 
this year. I also like the idea of having 
someone take care of the court times and 
the ability to sign up for the court space in 
advance.
Now, I will get to the main point for 
this article. The Intramural softball season 
was cut short, so that the field could be 
leveled and re-seeded. After the deadline 
of Monday, April 18 was set for finishing 
the softball season, the regular season was 
cancelled and the playoffs were started. 
The finals of all the different leagues were 
on Sunday, April 17 just before the dead­
line. Fortunately, the weather was nice 
enough to get all the games played since
the work was going to start on Monday 
morning. As of Sunday, April 24, NO 
work has been done. There were a few 
teams that never played a game in the reg­
ular season and very few teams played 
more than half their schedule. The main 
reason for having intramural sports is part­
icipation. At C-MU, intramural sports and 
participation are synonymous. Why start 
now? Why not wait until after Spring Car­
nival, which had several events scheduled
, for the I.M. field or even wait for the end 
of the softball season? It probably would 
not make much difference if the project 
was delayed for one or two weeks. (I 
checked with a local landscaping expert 
and he said that it would not hurt at all, 
since the prime time for planting grass seed 
is not April or May.) Since, it would not 
make any difference, why did the Athletic 
Department want to cut intramural softball 
short? Why did Physical Plant tell the Ath­
letic Department that softball had to end 
by Monday, April 18, when they did not 
plan to start work until later? (Or did the 
Athletic Department tell Physical Plant to 
start work on April 18?)
I have been surprised by the number 
of people that have read my past articles. I 
was often wondering if I was the only one 
to read my articles. There has even been 
action taken as a result of my articles. 
There was a night shift janitor in the gym 
within a week of my article dealing with the 
situation. After my article on the discrim­
ination shown against the Women’s “var­
sity” program, I received a phone call from 
the Affirmative Action Program, which 
deals with the discrimination problems at 
C-MU. After my article concerning the 
recruiting violation, the TARTAN received 
some phone calls from the Athletic Dep­
artment denying any wrongdoing in the 
matter. This year has been interesting with 
all the problems brought about by the Ath­
letic Department. I hope that next year 
will be different.
award-winning 14 foot canoe. As expected, 
the long boat convincingly defeated all the 
competition it faced, and its design ideas 
will be widely copied.
Since this is the last victory that can be 
reported in this year’s TARTAN, the Civil 
Engineering canoe team offers some closing 
thoughts here.
First, thanks are in order to the many 
friends of the CMU canoe. Our principal 
supporter is our own Civil Engineering 
Department through its department head, 
Fran McMichael. A few CMU alumni and 
businesses such as NAPA, Arco Polymer, 
and George I. Wilson Co. helped signifi­
cantly with the donation of materials. 
World-Wise Travel Service gave a fifty 
dollar gift. The Pittsburgh Department of 
Parks and Recreation gave us practice 
canoes and the use of Panther Hollow Pond, 
where our early morning practices deve­
loped champion paddlers.
In pursuit of the best competition in the 
East, the team logged over 2000 miles on 
the road. The most appreciated friends of 
the CMU canoe are the parents, alumni, 
and supporters who eased our survival in
distant cities and races. A general thanks is 
extended for every basket of chicken and 
tank of gas that came our way. We especial­
ly thank the DiGioias, Whittakers, Ritters, 
and the Goldsteins. Our biggest thank you 
goes to Mrs. Stu Hunter of Princeton who 
graciously housed and fed our entire entou­
rage this past weekend.
Without all this help, we have no pro 
gram. With our support, we have the strong­
est program in the country. This year was a 
sophmore effort under upperclass leader­
ship. Most key participants will be return­
ing next year.
After the final race, Norm Sollenberger, 
a Princeton Professor and officer of the 
New Jersey section of the American 
Society of Civil Engineers, stated that 
“CMU Civil Engineering put itself on the 
map with this [Canoeing] program.”
This season, teams from Vermont to 
Florida followed the CMU concrete canoe 
accross the finish lines in several different 
races. Last year, the team had to explain to 
other competitors that Carnegie-Mellon is 
a University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
This year, the CMU logo says it all.
"God knows, 
I’d like to help, 
but ”
But what?
Do you really think God 
will settle for that? If you 
can’t do things alone, 
join with others at your 
local synagogue or church. 
Example: in Montana, one 
congregation was disturbed 
by the lack of adequate 
housing for senior citizens. 
Because of their concern, 
today there is a new non-. 
profit home for them. The 
God we worship expects us 
to help our neighbors.
THE GRILL *
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
THIS WEEK
11:00 AM-2:00 PM
TARTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY April 27th
Big ''0'\ Medium Soft Drink.........................................90
THURSDAY April 28th
Cheeseburger, Fries
Medium Soft Drink.............................................................75
FRIDAY April 29th
Fish Sandwich, Fries
Medium Soft Drink................................ .......................86
MONDAY May 2nd
Hamburger, Fries
Medium Soft Drink . . ..........................................................68
TUESDAY May 3rd
Julienne Salad, Crackers
Medium Soft Drink.............................................................89

---------------------------------------------------

TENNIS TEAM WINS, LOSES
Three Home Matches to Prepare for the PACs
by Gordon Morrison•
The CMU Men’s tennis team won their 
match at Bethany 7-2, but lost to peren­
nial power Case Western Reserve 5—1 in 
a rain shortened match.
In the Bethany match, every CMU 
player had to play well to win. Most of the 
singles and doubles matches were close. 
Four of the six singles matches went to 
three sets and one of Bethany’s two points
was decided on a tiebreaker.
Case Western Reserve is the tennis 
power in the PAC. Case won every tennis 
title since they entered the PAC and they 
have never even lost a PAC match. Mrs. 
Peggy Russell, the CMU tennis coach, said 
that everyone was ready for the match and 
they all played well, especially Mike Straub, 
who won his singles match. His point was 
the only point ever won by CMU against 
CWR. Mrs. Russell also said that she 
thought the CMU doubles were going to
give CWR a good battle and had a chance 
to make the score a very respectable 5—4, 
if it was not for the rain. All of the doubles 
matches were rained out. The team is 
looking forward to any rematch in the 
upcoming PAC tournament. The team 
record is now 4—3 overall, 2—1 in the PAC.
The tennis team has home matches with 
Westminster today and Youngstown State 
this week and a home match with W & J 
next week before travelling to the PAC 
tournament at John Carroll on May 5-7.
Athletic 
Banquet
The Athletic Department Banquet will 
be held next Monday, May 2 in the Skibo 
Ballroom. The Banquet will start at 6:00 
P.M. Anyone on any of the varsity teams 
that represented C-MU and has not seen 
their coach and made their reservations, 
time is running out. Reservations must 
be made in advance and also must be 
made by tomorrow at the latest, which 
is nearly a full week extension over the 
previously announced deadline.Ever notice
how it's easier 
„ to ace 
the coursesyou like?
It finally comes down to commitment.
When you don’t like a course, it’s hard to excel. The class gets 
tedious. The texts get boring. The lectures get dreadful. Your work
suffers. And so do your grades.
Compare that with the courses you really believe in.
You care more. You try more And without even noticing, you just
naturally do better.It’s true in school. It’s true outside of school.
For example, we believe theres just one way to brew 
Busch beer. The natural way. With natural ingredients.
Natural carbonation. Natural ageing.
We believe that’s the best way to brew a beer.
And when you believe in what you’re 
doing, you just naturally do it better.
Taste a Busch and we think you’ll agree.
BUSCH
When you believe in what you’re doing, you just naturally do it better.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS 
(1) = First Session: May 17 — June 24; (2) = Second Session: June 27 — August 5
* = Graduate Course Number
Carnegie -Mellon University
during the summer, 1977, will hold two
six-week sessions as follows:
1st SIX WEEK SESSION 
May 17 — June 24
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX WEEK SESSION 
June 27 — August 5
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION:
$28/unit* — All undergraduates
GRADUATE TUITION:
$34/unit* — College of Fine Arts/Humanities 
and Social Sciences 
$45/unit* — Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology/Mellon Institute of Science
*3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be offered. 
The actual list of courses including class 
schedules will be announced and published 
depending upon student response.
Application materials and further irrf^fiation 
will be mailed upon receipt of yo uiry.
Please give your tentative reply a%soon as 
possible by completing the atta^^S form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studie^^S* 
Admissions Office
Carnegie Mellon Universiw 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 1521*^^
Phone: (412) 621-26pOP Ext. 8807
Carnegie-Q^llon University
_____^_________________________Name
Mailing Address.
Present Set 
I am in the following course Is):
Cours ber TitleSession
Please return this form tor
Direct Of, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Biology:03-121Modern Biology9 units{If and (2)
Chemistry:09-105Dynamics and Equilibria9 units(1)
09 117Organic Chemistry 19 units(1)
09-142Physical Chemistryl9 units(1)
09 218Organic Chemistry II9 units(2)
Computer15-104Introduction to Computing A (FORTRAN)9 units(1) and (2)
Science:15-111Introduction to Computing B (non-FORTR AN)9 units(It
15-211Fundamental Structures of Programming9 units(1) and (2)
Mathematics:21-121Calculus 111 units(1)
21 122Calculus II11 units(1) and (2)
21 123Calculus III ,11 units(1) and (2)
21 259Differential Equations and Linear Algebra9 units(1)
21-260Partial Differential Equations and Vector Analysis9 units(2)
Physics:33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33-122Physics II: Heat Waves and Optics (Self-Paced)10 units(1)and (2)
33-123Physics III: Electricity and Magnetism (Self-Paced)10 units(1) and (2)
33 124Atomic Physics and Structure of Matter10 units(11 and (2)
Statistics:36-211Probability and Applied Statistics 19 units(1) and (2)
36-212Probability and Applied Statistics II9 units(1) and (2)
36-215Probability and Statistics 19 units(1)
36-216Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis 19 units(1)
36220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II9 units(2)
Civil12 205Introduction to Engineering Mechanics9 units(1)
Engineering:12-211Solids Mechanics 19 units<1)
12 215Materials12 units(1)
Mechanical
Engineering:
24 121Thermodynamics 19 units(1)
Nuc. Sci. & Eng.:25'713Nuclear Reactor Spatial Distribution Physics9 units(1i
Metallurgy and27-322
rProcess Metallurgy12 units(1) and (2)
Materials Science:27 332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1) and (2)
27 350Seminar9 units(1) and (2)
27 755Metallurgical Problemsvar. units{1) and (2)
27 775Thesisvar. units(1) and (2)
39 227Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation II9 units(1) and (2)
Biomedical42-500VPhysiology ' »9 units(1)
Engineering:42 560Undergraduate Projectsvar. units(2)
Economics:73-100Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. 19 units(1)
73 200Econ. Growth and Fluctuations9 units(11
73-250Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.9 units(1)
73 459Benefit Cost Analysis9 units(1)
English:76 100Freshman Writing9 units(2)
76-407The Contemporary Novel9 units(2)
76-427The Drama of the Absurd9 units(2)
76-581Business and Professional Communication9 units(2)
76-721 *Shakespeare12 units(2)
76-806*Nobel Novelists12 units(2)
76 851 *Functional Writing12 units(21
76 887*American Humor: Nineteenth and Twentieth Century12 units(2)
76-960*Workshop in Advanced Placement English
— for teachers of AP English only (June 27-July 22)
12 units(2)
History:79-101Shaping of Western Civilization9 units(It
79 29120th Century America9 units. (11
79 799*History and the Social Sciences12 units(2)
79-804*Power and Values in History12 units(2)
79-856*The Teaching of History12 units(21
79-857 *Readings in Historywar. units(21
79 869*Internship in Historical Researchvar. units(2)
Design:51 116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography6 units(21
Music:57 733* 
57 741 * 
57 -867 *
57 873*
Advanced Choral Techniques (July 5-July 17) 
Advanced Instrumental Techniques (July 19-July 31) 
Administration and Supervision in Music Educations 
(June 27-July 15)
Principles of Music Education (July 18-August 5)
6 units 
6 units 
6 units
6 units
57 875*Contemporary Problems in Music Education6 units(21
Art:60 751 *Advanced Ceramics9 units(21
60 251Ceramics9 units(2)
60-229,729*Color9 units(2)
60-119,719*Drawing9 units(2)
60-237,737*Intaglio9 units(2)
60-235,735*Lithography9 units(2)
60-380,780*Contemporary Art9 units(21
60 254,754*Metalcrafts9 units(2)
60-226,726*Painting9 units,(2)
60-233,733*Relief Printing9 units(2)
60-231,731 *Screen Printing9 units(21
60-261.761 * 
60-247,747*
60 369,769*
Sculpture « 
Experimental Metal Platemaking Workshop 
in Lithography (June 6-June 17)
Tapestry Workshop (June 27-July 15)
9 units
6 units 
9 units
(21
Modern82 107French (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(1) and (2)
Languages and82 123German (Intensive or Programmed) ,var. units( 1) and (2)
Literature:82 143Spanish (Intensive or Programmed)var. units(11 and (2)
Psychology:85-101Introduction to Psychology9 units(1)
