The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 18 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1943
George Ladd, C.I.T. Trustee, 
Leaves ‘Superior Faculty’Fund
I.H.C. To Put On 
Victory Dance Sat.
Why not make next weekend a 
big success? Come to the Pep Rally 
Friday night. Come to the game 
Saturday afternoon. Take your date 
to supper Saturday evening. Make 
the weekend complete by coming 
to the Tech-Lehigh Victory Dance 
at 9:00 o’clock Saturday in the 
Schenley Hotel. Bernie Arm­
strong’s orchestra which has played 
for several Tech dances will supply 
the music. The price of admission 
is $2.20 per couple. Tickets may be 
purchased from any member of the 
Interhonorary Council. They will 
also be on sale in Administration 
Hall during lunch hours this week 
amd at the door the night of the 
dance.
The few dances which have been 
held this semester have been well 
attended by civilians and Army 
students. This affair should by, no 
means be the exception. In addi­
tion to the regular ASTP many of 
the old Tech ROTC men are expect­
ed to be there. It should be a gala 
meeting for ^11 Tech students old 
and new.
Come One! Come All! Enjoy the 
first big weekend at Tech in quite 
some time. Top it off with a per­
fect evening at the Schenley Hotel.
M.M.C.C. Freshmen 
Elect New Officers
After Color Day on Tuesday, the 
Margaret Morrison Freshmen elect­
ed class officers. The results were 
announced at a tea given by the 
Margaret Morrison Senate the same 
afternoon. The officers are:
President: Camilla McCullough.
Vice-President: Betty Kane.
Secretary: Jane Ramsey.
Senate Member: Eleanor Alexan­
der.
Pep Rally
The Tartans have a chance to take 
Lehigh in the game on October 16. 
But they will need all the support 
we can give them. So come one, 
come all to the big Pep Rally Friday 
night. The Pep Rally is tentatively 
scheduled for about 6:00 in order to 
enable the soldiers to be there.
Senior Pictures
The Seniors, Junior Secretarials, 
and Junior Engineers can make ap­
pointments throughout the week of 
October twelfth in Administration 
Hall to have their pictures taken 
soon. Those who make appoint­
ments must pay two dollars for the 
picture; this includes the cost of the 
year book. The appointments will 
be between 11:00 and 1:00 o’clock. 
All appointments must be made 
during this week.
Carnegie Tech Day At 
Blood Bank Oct. 23; 
Volunteers Needed!
Blood donations will be made 
Saturday, October 23, from 10 to
2 o’clock in the Wabash Building. 
Meanwhile all pledges must be in 
Room 101, the Gymnasium, by Tues­
day, October 12 at 4:30. If any 
pledge is under twenty-one he must 
have his parent’s permission with 
him. The last chance to register will 
be at the entrance of Administra­
tion Building and the entrance of 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College. WE NEED MANY MORE 
VOLUNTEERS!
Any fraternity, sorority, or club 
which notifies the Carnegie Tech 
Blood Bank Committee before Oc­
tober 23 of their intent to go in a 
body to donate blood will have a 
group picture at the Blood Bank. 
This picture would be good public­
ity for the group. The record of 
the school will also be greatly in­
creased.
Donating blood is an essential 
part of the war effort. Deaths among 
casualties in this war have been cut 
to 2% largely by the use of blood 
plasma. The soldiers in all the 
fighting fronts need more and more 
plasma. The only way that this 
need can be satisfied is for all the 
people to donate as much blood as 
they possibly can. We can afford 
to give liberally to save a life.
Drama Dept Schedules 
Cry Havoc Next
The next play to be given by the 
Drama Department is Allen R. Ken- 
ward’s Cry Havoc, a play of the 
nurses on Bataan. It is the story 
of a group of volunteer nurses who 
had gone to the Philippines with the 
expectation of rolling bandages and 
answering telephones only to find 
themselves in the midst of one of 
the fiercest and most hopeless bat­
tles of the war. The action takes 
place in a dugout which was for­
merly part of a gun emplacement. 
Although the play is full of laughs 
and is interesting as it shows what 
nurses overseas are up against, it 
reaches moments of great intensity 
and tragedy. There are thirteen 
women in the play and no men 
which makes it a happy choice con­
sidering the man situation in the 
Drama Department. The charac­
ters are of all types — everything 
from a dumb little Southern girl to 
a burlesque queen.
Cry Havoc will open November 
12 and run through the 19th. It is 
hoped that the soldiers on the cam­
pus will be able to come to the 
shows.
Miss Mary Morris, who is direct­
ing the show, has announced the 
cast as follows:
Doc .......................................Turton-Slohm
Smitty ........................... Nosich-Sheinman
Flo ........................................Dodge-Fineman
Pat .............................................Roth-Rosoff
Helen .....................................Graham-Hecht
Steve ........................ .Bearman-Wächter
Grace ....................................Rubin-Franklin
tfive rlfeaAA.
Only One Difference: 
We Win In Football
The magic carpet of memory is 
waiting again . . . let’s go . . . five 
years ago ...
October 12, 1938 . . . Nothing 
much happened this week . . . the 
usual lectures, classes, little in­
cidents, appointments . . . Funny, 
some weeks are quite dead, nobody 
has anything to talk about, just 
classes . . . and then other weeks, 
for no good reason at all, things are 
humming . . . maybe • it’s the
weather . . .
Something must have happened 
last week . . . let’s see ... an 
overconfident team beat the Witten­
berg Lutherans by 32-13 . . . the 
coach is mad ... we played slop­
pily, fumbled much too often,, and 
were too d------n cocky ... We bet­
ter change before Saturday . . . 
Holy Cross is a tough nut to crack, 
and we’d better get on the ball . . .
The TARTAN is quite a paper 
nowadays ... big, newspaper size, 
eight columns, four or six pages, 
plenty of cuts . . . the masthead 
carries a quotation from Charles A. 
Dana . . . “Men must be at liberty 
to say in print whatever they have 
in mind to say, provided it wrongs 
no. one” . . . as if anyone had a 
mind to have something on . . . we 
have some nice features . . . Kilt- 
E-Grams, the sportseditorial . . . 
Thistledown, the latest gossip, the 
Shape of Things with political news.
October 12, 1938 . . . October 12, 
1943 . . . what’s the difference?
Pitt-Tecli Chaplain To 
Speak At Chapel Tues.
Continuing their reputation of 
bringing Tech students the finest 
speakers possible, CWCA announces 
that Father Leo Kraus, assistant 
pastor of St. Paul’s Cathedral, will 
officiate at chapel services on Tues­
day morning, October 12 at 11:00 in 
the Little Theater. Known to scores 
of students on . campus for the 
friendly sessions which he held with 
them at the Carnegie Union last 
year, Father Kraus has the impres­
sive title of official chaplain for 
both the University of Pittsburgh 
and for Carnegie Tech.
Ordained in 1928 from Saint Vin­
cent’s Theological Seminary in La- 
trobe, Father Kraus held an as­
sistant pastorate in Ambridge for 
14 years before coming to Pitts­
burgh. He particularly emphasized 
the fact that in his direct contact 
with the faculty and students here 
last year he was impressed and de­
lighted with the “fine group of peo­
ple” that he met.
The general topic of his Tuesday 
morning sermon will be “Character 
and Discipline.”
George Tallman Ladd, long time 
trustee of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, president of the United 
Engineering and Foundry Company 
and one of Pittsburgh’s most promi­
nent industrialists, died Oct. 2, 
at Magee Hospital. He was 72.
The provisions of his will reveal 
the establishment of a foundation 
whose principal purpose will be the 
securement for Carnegie Tech of a 
faculty “equal if not superior” to 
that of other leading scientific 
schools. The will provided for the 
members of Mr. Ladd’s family, and 
made bequests to various persons 
and institutions, including $25,000 
for Bucknell University, and then 
said:
“The remainder of the income 
shall be set aside as a separate trust 
known as the George T. Ladd and 
Florence Barrett Ladd Foundation. 
It shall assist Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in securing and main­
taining a faculty which shall be 
equal, if not superior, to the facul­
ties of those technical and scientific 
institutions in the United States 
which have achieved preeminence 
in their respective fields and have 
become notable for their contribu­
tions to the advancement of science 
and engineering.”
A second purpose of the Founda­
tion will be to aid Elizabeth Steel 
Magee Hospital and Children’s Hos­
pital. In all of his bequests Mr. 
Ladd provided that the money shall 
not be used for buildings and main­
tenance, but for a stated purpose 
such as salaries or for the continu­
ance of the work for which the in­
stitution was founded.
Mr. Ladd’s death ended an indus­
trial career that spanned half a cen­
tury. Born in Edinburg, Ohio, in 
1871, he studied at the Sheffield Sci­
entific School at Yale University, 
and at Cornell. In 1910, after having 
served as a consultant engineer and 
designer of boilers and engines for 
several firms, he founded the 
George T. Ladd Company, Engi­
neers.
This marked the beginning of an 
incredible career. During the first 
world war, Mr. Ladd served as Lieu­
tenant Commander in the Naval Re­
serve in charge of the construction 
of 14-inch railway mounts, and 
seven inch caterpillar mounts for 
the navy. In 1919, he designed the 
largest water tube boilers in the 
world for the Ford Motor Company.
Continued on page 3
Notice
The Army-Navy Qualification Tests 
will be given at 8:45 o’clock, Novem­
ber 9, in Room 104 I.H.; not the Gym 
as previously stated.
All those wishing to take the test 
should obtain application blanks from 
Mr. Wangeman's office, Bureau of 
Placements, 155 I.H. before the time 
of the test. Also, the anplication h*s 
to be signed by Mr. Wangeman, to 
make it valid.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1943
£dUtoàH CryHavoc,ym
Ramblings Of An Editor
Just our luck! When we have a chance to scoop everyone on the story 
of the new Colonel, he turns out to be one of the most elusive men we’ve 
ever hunted. We do know, however, that his name is Col. Frank Z. Pirkey, 
and that he arrived at Tech to command our 1200 ASTP men sometime 
last Saturday (after the TARTAN was safe in bed!) He is a graduate of 
West Point, is a full Colonel of Engineers, at one time commanded a regi­
ment in Puerto Rico, and has just come to us from Fort Belvoir. From his 
record and experience, he sounds to us like the ideal man to take charge 
of the Tech unit. We promise an interview and a picture with the next 
issue. In the meantime, welcome and good luck in your assignment, 
Colonel Pirkey.
Now they are telling us that some dissatisfaction has arisen because of 
the enthusiastic welcome everyone is giving the former CIT boys who have 
come back under the ASTP. All we can say to the regular soldiers sta­
tioned here is to ask them to remember that when a professor stops to 
speak to one of our former students, he is not showing favoritism; they 
happen usually to be old friends. All of you would want the same courtesy 
shown by your friends if you were to return to a station or to your own 
home town. And to the so-called “ROTC” boys we might add that even 
three years of ROTC training is not much to crow about. Many of the men 
stationed here have had a year of intensive training in regular army camps. 
More than 75 paratroopers are here, and have had between a year and a 
half and two years of special training. Many more are college students, so 
fellows, don’t think you’re too good; you’re just luckier than the rest.
When we suggested that a P. X. should be established for the ASTP 
as quickly as possible, we didn’t expect such a boomerang! The latest idea 
of the “Military” is to confiscate the Hut for a P. X., move the books into 
the Publications Offices, and move the Publications—well, just OUT. I 
know that if the staffs of two magazines, one yearbook, and one newspaper, 
as well as their central business office has to move even once more, they 
will probably collectively jump off Washington Crossing Bridge! We want 
the soldiers to have their Post Exchange, but isn’t that going to extremes? 
There is very little reason why the Tech unit could not obtain one of those 
excellent portable P. X.’s from Washington, and thus save time, expense, 
and a great deal of heartbreak. With that and the new contract for a laun­
dry and dry-cleaning service to be set up in Skibo, it certainly appears that 
soon our ASTP men will be equipped with every practical convenience.
Letters To The Editor
one of the profs
Dear Editor:
A few weeks ago the TARTAN 
ran a series of articles asking stu­
dents to bring their lunches rather 
than eat at the Grill or Inn. Many 
students have found it necessary 
to do this anyway because of sched­
ule difficulties, and there can be no 
question about the willingness of 
Techites to cooperate. However, 
the articles suggested that ACAC 
would provide places on campus to 
buy beverages without the incon­
venience and wasted time involved 
in going to the Grill. In fact, buy­
ing milk at the Grill partially de­
feats the purpose of bringing lunch, 
since it requires that all the stu­
dents go through the line. I un­
derstand that the Household Ec. de­
partment has set up a milk bar in 
the recreation hall for the Margaret 
Morrison students and faculty, but 
this is not of much value to the 
other schools. If other places could 
be provided for buying beverages 
the congestion in the Grill might be 
avoided to some extent and those 
who must run to make it between 
classes could be assured of a lunch 
for their trouble.
AL PERRY.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Curnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
After Office Hours Call 
Editor-in-Chief...........................HI. 7093
Business Manager......................SC. 8951
OCPRESeNTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
Why notmake xwdb idg skucb ibsb
CMiCACo • Boston • Los amceles * San fnancisco 
Entered as second-class matter In tlie Pittsburg!» Post Office under the Aet 6f March 3, 1X79.Published weekl/ during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price 91.10 per year.
jiditor-in-Chief..........................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Business Manager......................................................................................................... Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors........................................................................Louisa Saul, Walt Darby
Copy Editors................................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Sports Editor........................................................................................................... Jim Montague
Assistant Business Manager .................................................................................. Merle Wolff
Personnel Manager............................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation ......................................................................................................... Chester Feinberg
Photography Editor ...........,.................................................................................. Tom Bokman
Photography Staff...........................................................................Dick Bingham, Joe Urban
Sports Staff................... John Lindberg, Chuck Peterson, Dick O’Neill, Ed Von Halle
Reporters: Aron Beck, Gerald Brickman, Lois Brunn, Audrey Colledge, Walter Ell­
man, Lucille Emmel, Tom Farrahay, Mary Jane Ferguson, Malcolm Festenstein, 
41 Ganschow Jlick Georges, John Glass, Nancy Goodwin, Adeline Herlick, Dolores 
Horovitz, Bill Kolb, Ernie Lowenstein, Theresa McLaughlin, Bill McShane, Helen 
Miller, Janet Murray, Marshall Nurenberg, Natalie Nathan, Mary Jane Paine, Al­
bert Perry, Marie Raynal, Gerry Racusin, Lucille Schulberg, Harriet Sidler, Bob 
Sugarman, Jolene Svirman, Ruth Tisherman, Alma Weinberger, Hanah Estermann.
“Did you say Poppa Parisi? — 
Well, gosh, he’s wonderful, we just 
love him.” In these enthusiastic 
words of Helen Robinson, CWCA 
president, is typified the affectionate 
feeling and genuine admiration that 
all Tech holds for the popular Mod­
ern Languages professor, Vincent 
Parisi, or as he is better known to 
his proteges, the Kappas—“Poppa” 
Parisi.
Claiming the City of New York 
College as his alma mater, as well as 
Harvard University where he did 
his graduate work in modern 
languages, Professor Parisi held 
several teaching positions prior to 
coming to Tech in 1927. As he re­
ceived his primary education 
abroad, this versatile instructor 
speaks several tongues fluently, in­
cluding French, Spanish, Italian, 
Portuguese and German, several of 
which he has taught in the capacity 
of professor at the University of 
Virginia, the University of Boston 
and as Supervisor of Modern 
Languages in Richmond, Virginia.
Though day students may know 
him as the “prof” who taught them 
to “parley-vous,” Professor Parisi 
is hailed by night students enrolled 
in civilian defense, as the instructor 
who taught them the rudiments of 
engineering drawing. For in addi­
tion to his lingusitic abilities, this 
versatile faculty member is a certi­
fied draftsman. But to a man whose 
nervous energy is so abounding that 
he had to find an outlet for it as a 
member of his college track team, 
these are but a few interests. Paint­
ing landscapes as a member of the 
Associated Artists, drawing scenery 
for plays, building all the furniture 
in his home and producing dramas 
in foreign languages are only a 
small number of the avocations Mr. 
Parish finds it necessary to indulge 
in in order to fill his spare time.
. . . Professor Parisi
Should he discover a few extra min­
utes in the day, this sprightly “prof” 
dons Mrs. Parisi’s apron and pro­
ceeds to prepare, as he puts it, 
“Some really good French and 
Italian dishes.”
Despite these varied activities, 
this energetic instructor is still find­
ing time these days to impart his 
knowledge of French to the ASTP 
men stationed here. Continuing the 
informal method of teaching that he 
formerly used on his civilian stu­
dents, Mr. Parisi discovered that it 
is quite successful with the Army 
too. As he explained, “In my con­
versational classes we discuss every­
thing from soup to nuts, and at the 
tables in the beanery—well, we just 
elucidate on those topics.”
How well qualified Mr .Parisi is 
to deal with army men is evidenced 
by his career as a First Lieutenant 
in the Military Intelligence in 
charge of Morale Work during the 
last war. One of his most highly 
prized possessions is a letter of 
commendation which he received 
from J. F. Gohn, Colonel, General 
Staff and acting executive officer. It 
read in part:
“You did more than any other 
man to bring the morale of the for­
eign language speaking soldiers in 
this camp to a high plane, by your 
diligence, your enthusiasm and 
your unswerving loyalty.”
In discussing his present work in 
connection with the soldiers Mr. 
Parisi praised the enthusiasm of the 
men and commented upon their ex­
cellent progress. As he said, only 
one thing is wrong, “I miss the girls 
-—they added color to the class.” 
Though this jovial good-natured­
ness is characteristic of our “prof” 
one thing will instantly bring a 
frown to his face. In his own 
words it’s, “Holes in my socks—I 
detest ’em.”
.. ACAC Minutes..
Seventeenth Meeting 
October 6, 1943.
The meeting was called to order at 
5:15 p.m.
Present: Messrs. Wolff, Fairchild, Mar­
cus, Peterson, Sher, and Talaber; Misses 
Rial, Beall, Schadel, and Bloom. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social
Miss Rial read a petition from the Y. M. 
C. A. and the C. W. C. A. requesting per­
mission to hold Junior Prom on Novem­
ber 13. Since these organizations do not 
run their entire accounts through A. C. 
A. C., it was decided that there should be 
an investigation to determine whether or 
not it would be possible for them to hold 
an all-school dance.
Miss Rial read a petition from Inter­
fraternity Council requesting permission 
to hold a dance Saturday, November 27.
Miss Rial moved that A. C. A. C. give 
permission to Y. M. C. A. and C. W. C. A. 
to hold a dance on November 13, and to 
Interfraternity Council to hold a dance 
November 27, both subject to satisfactory 
arrangements to be made later regarding 
their financial set-ups.
Motion carried.
Elections
Mr. Sher reported that the following 
freshman officers for the class of 1947, 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, had 
been elected:
President ...................Camilla McCullough
Vice-President...........................Betty Kane
Secretary-Treasurer............Jane Ramsay
Senate Representative.Eleanor Alexander
Mr. Sher moved that these officers be 
approved by A. C. A. C.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that election for Arts 
School representative to A. C. A. C. be 
held Tuesday, October 19, from 11:00a.m. 
to 1:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
Budgets
Mr. Sher moved that A. C .A. C. ap­
prove the Kiltie Band budget with the 
understanding that any additional income 
obtained by the band be deducted from 
the necessary appropriation and that the 
budget be approved tentative to the sub­
mission of a program of activities for the 
school year 1943-44.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that A. C. A. C. accept 
the budget submitted by Interhonorary 
Council for its dance.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
Miss Schadel read a letter from Miss 
Beall in which she submitted her resigna­
tion as Secretary of A. C. A. C. Miss 
Schadel moved that this resignation be 
accepted.
Motion carried.
Miss Bloom automatically becomes 
Secretary of A. C. A. C. The election of 
an assistant secretary will be held at the 
end of the term at the regular time for 
elections.
It was decided that A. C. A. C. will give 
activities keys this year. Miss Schadel 
was requested to investigate the possi­
bility of obtaining keys. Each organiza­
tion on campus is to submit to Miss 
Schadel a list of its members who are 
eligible for keys.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM.
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
United War Relief 
Begins 1943 Campaign
One of the most charitable or­
ganizations of the nation, the Unit­
ed War Relief, will begin its 1943 
campaign October the eighteenth in 
the Pittsburgh area. Under the 
able chairmanship of Carnegie’s 
own Professor Kent Shaffer of the 
Humanistic Department, the Pitts­
burgh workers hope to meet their 
share of the Allegheny County 
quota of $5,000,000 successfully and 
soon. Because the quota for this 
year in the Pittsburgh area has been 
increased by $400,000 from last 
year’s requirements of $4,900,000, 
and because it is now necessary for 
the average citizen to expend so 
much more money on war time 
economy, this year’s campaign will 
prove more than ever before the 
generosity of the people of our 
smoky city.
This year more than any other, 
Pittsburgh has a right to consider 
itself a part of United War Relief, 
for a large portion of the quota for 
this area will be put to direct use 
here in the USO canteen (which in­
cidentally is one of the best in the 
country) and in the YWCA which 
has just been added to the roster of 
War Relief charities. Of course all 
the others of the 103 organizations 
benefitted by the Fund will receive 
their usual share of the collection.
The committee hopes that the citi­
zens of Pittsburgh and Allegheny 
county will get behind the 35,000 
volunteer workers who are so nobly 
donating their time to the Fund by 
giving enough money to meet the 
quota before the closing of the cam­
paign on November fifth.
George Ladd . . .
Continued from page 1 
At the time of his death, George 
Ladd was president of the Ladd 
Equipment Company, chairman of 
the Boards of the Pittsburgh Test­
ing Laboratory and the Woodings- 
Verona Toolworks and an executive 
on a score of concerns including the 
Pittsburgh Steel Company, the First 
National Bank, the Westinghouse 
Airbrake Company, and many 
others.
In the death of Mr. George T. 
Ladd, Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology lost one of its most devoted 
friends and counselors. Mr. Ladd 
has been a member of the board of 
Trustees and of the Executive Com­
mittee of the Trustees since 1938, 
and during that period he had un­
selfishly interested himself in the 
welfare of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and had been a gener­
ous contributor to the Endowment 
Fund. He had the respect and af­
fection of everyone who was priv­
ileged to know him, and his pres­
ence will be sadly missed by his 
colleagues on the Executive Com­
mittee.
ROBERT E. DOHERTY.
Dance 
Where It’s Young and Gay
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on theCONTINENTAL 
TERRACE
85 cents per person
Plus Tax
tf-iA&place
New A.P.O. Members 
Attend Weiner Roast
The pile of rocks behind the 
Union has finally received its bap­
tism by fire. As Prof. Stulen, the 
designer, gazed in wonderment at 
the corruption of his graceful struc­
ture, a self-appointed committee of 
the faculty advisors raided the 
Union’s precious supply of firewood 
and the great venture was under 
way. Once the fire was going well 
enough to justify belief that the 
darned thing would remain stand­
ing, Art Uber, the president of APO, 
which constructed it, presented it 
to Dean Warden, who received it 
for the school. It is now part of the 
Union equipment, available for all 
school functions.
A few more preliminaries includ­
ed giving a leather case and letter 
signed by all those present to Wil­
liam Babbitt, an alumnus of the 
chapter and scouting advisor who 
has left for the Army. With the in­
cidentals taken care of, the main 
business of the evening came to the 
fore. Long sticks made their ap­
pearance, the faculty proving rather 
efficient at burning, or at least heat­
ing, hot dogs. For some reason Dean 
Warden always had two on his stick, 
Continued on page 4
Pgh. Woman’s Clan Will 
Give Party For Seniors
An Old-Fashioned Party in the 
Exhibition Room, Arts, will serve 
as a get-together party for the 
alumnae and the senior girls of 
Carnegie Tech. The affair is sched­
uled for Tuesday, October 12, at 
7:45.
The program will consist of 
games, quizzes and spelling bees 
and the participants will receive 
prizes and refreshments.
The feature of the evening is the 
costuming of the attending people. 
They are all urged to wear old or 
old-fashioned clothes.
So, attention seniors, save Tues­
day, tonight, for an evening of fun!
Dramats Rehearse New Play 
Under Mr. Payne’s Watchful Eye
Although very few people outside 
the Drama Department know it, 
there are two theatres on the cam­
pus—the Little Theatre in the Arts 
Building where plays are shown to 
the public, and the little-known 
Studio Theatre in the Commons 
Building. It was to this latter work­
shop that I went Saturday morning 
to watch a rehearsal of “Twelfth 
Night.” Outside the building there 
was a small group of people discuss­
ing last night’s date and wondering 
about tonight’s. Inside there were 
more people—some were sitting in 
one tier of seats with their legs 
propped over the backs of the seats 
in front; others were arranging 
chairs and stools on the stage; in
. . dirt colyum . .
By Aron Beck
Speaking of Escorts: . . . Ruth 
Means escorted .the football team to 
and from the Case game—they play­
ed bridge . . . Rosemary Lane, 
pretty freshman, by Joe Balash, 
Soph. Chem. Engineer.
Incidentally: . . .Rachel Hansen 
is one of Gallup Pollers for the City 
of Pittsburgh . . . Jean Baber still 
seen with Whitey Monroe (when he 
doesn’t go to sleep . . . Bob
Pogue gave his Beta pin to Becky 
Townsend — no wonder the Beta 
boys watched her so closely this 
summer . . . Jean Swaney was 
happy to see Larry Cornacchia last 
week—he is the fellah that gave her 
the D. U. pin she wears.
Now that they’re back—? . . . 
The return of Fred Corey affected 
Dottie Stauff’s winter plans . . . 
Was Bill Carpenter watching Dotty 
Willison for Bob Mellers? . . . Can 
Scottie Atkinson sandwich Bob 
Galbraith in between the Kappa 
Sigs, Betas, and S. A. E.s that have 
been taking up her time.
Seen Around Campus: . . . Pfc. 
Wallace Patton . . . Ensigns Dave 
Ellis, Chris Smith, Walt Tischuk.
one corner another group was 
laughing and smoking. Their cos­
tumes couldn’t have been much 
more colorful if they had been 
dressed for a gypsy ball—red slacks, 
blue jeans, bright flannel shirts, 
trench coats, tweed jackets, floppy 
hair, hair in bandannas, and all 
kinds of shoes. The atmosphere was 
utterly carefree and informal; noth­
ing seemed to matter much except 
that it was ten o’clock Saturday 
morning and bed had been a very 
comfortable place. Then Mr. Payne 
came.
Something seemed to happen — 
everyone who was there had a rea­
son for being there; that was clear. 
Part of the players left the auditori­
um to go back stage; those who 
weren’t busy at the moment sat 
down and talked in low tones if 
they talked at all. The rehearsal 
had started and it was a serious 
business. Mr. Payne sat in the mid­
dle of the auditorium watching the 
players and making notes. Once in 
a while he interrupted to say some­
thing in his quiet voice, and then 
the action started again. As the 
play progressed some players came 
down to sit in and others went to 
the wings. Everyone in the studio 
seemed quite intent upon the stage. 
Occasionally someone would laugh 
at the antics of Sir Toby Belch and 
Continued on page 4
On The Record
The following programs have 
been chosen for the record recitals 
given in the Exhibition Room, Fine 
Arts, between 12:00 and 1:00.
Tuesday, October 12, 1943 
Fourth Piano Concerto . Beethoven
Thursday, October 14, 1943 
Symphony No. 5................Bruckner
Have a Coca-Cola=Welcome, Short-Snorter
.. .from family fireside to far-flung fronts
When short-snorters (trans-ocean flyers) meet and compare 
their autographed dollar bills, the invitation Have a “Coke” is 
fairly sure to follow. At home and abroad Coca-Cola has become 
a symbol of those who see things in a friendly light.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY ftY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
-the global 
high-sign
1X 79.0 BOT LEL LDU1

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1943
Carnegie Tartans Badly Defeated 36-13; 
Tech Linemen Fail To Stop Case Runners
Big-Little Sister Tea 
Sponsored By CWCA
As a climax to the various fetes 
accorded them as incoming stu­
dents, freshmen women in the Fine 
Arts, Margaret Morrison and En­
gineering Colleges will be enter­
tained by the CWCA on Wednes­
day, October 13, at the annual Big 
and Little Sister Tea to be held 
from four to six o’clock in the Car­
negie Union. According to Helen 
Robinson, president of the organiza­
tion, the get-together will serve as 
an occasion for the freshmen and 
upperclassmen to become better ac­
quainted with each other.
All freshmen women, regardless 
of whether they have “big sisters,” 
as well as all the upperclassmen 
functioning as “big sisters” are urg­
ed to come to the affair. Janet Arm­
strong, Social Chairman of the 
CWCA, is in charge of the tea.
Twelfth Night. . .
Continued from page 3 
Sir Andrew Aguecheek, but for the 
most part they watched, for the 
people in the theatre were working 
and they acted as though they were.
The rehearsal I was watching was 
one of the last ones for the show; 
so they went straight through pol­
ishing it and perfecting it. After it 
was over everyone came down front 
including Mr. Payne with his sheath 
of notes. For fifteen minutes the 
players sat there while Mr. Payne, 
who was leaning against the stage, 
went through the play from his 
notes, a suggestion here and a cor­
rection there. Then rehearsal was 
over and a laughing, talking group 
of dramats left the Studio Theatre 
to go to lunch.
GEO. H. ALEXANDER 
& CO., INC. 
Stationers 
Office Outfitters 
Printers
PITTSBURGH, PENNA.
Fort Pitt Is the Place 
to RentTYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
A.P.O. Fireplace . . .
Continued from page 3 
but I suppose his position entitles 
him to a little extra consideration. 
Doctor Gregg, who threw the party 
for the new initiates, managed to 
do away with his share of the red 
points, and the rest weren’t far be­
hind. The APO’s didn’t do too bad­
ly, either. As a matter of fact, no 
one complained of a lack of food.
The fireplace was started by a 
pledge class several years ago, but 
the advent of winter damped the 
activities. This year’s pledges took 
over, following with fair accuracy 
plans drawn up by Prof. Stulen, and 
by the time initiation rolled around 
everyone had had a finger in the 
mortar. At one time or another all 
the faculty members who ate the 
potato salad contributed tb some 
part of the work, certainly more 
than paying their way. In addition 
to those already mentioned, Pro­
fessors Shaffer, Dennison, and Keck 
and Mr. Eyman were present. It is 
hoped that other organizations will 
take advantage of the new equip­
ment. First one to be hit by a flying 
brick is a sissy.
CWCA To Hold Dinner 
Meeting Next Monday
Continuing their popular dinner- 
meetings held last year, the CWCA 
will hold another one of these ses­
sions on Monday, October 18, at 
which time, Mr. Norman H. Dawes, 
well-known History and Social Re­
lations instructor, will speak. Tick­
ets for the dinner which will be at 
6:00 in the Union, can be bought 
from the CWCA Cabinet members 
in the front of Margaret Morrison 
for 40c.
Though there are only a limited 
number of tickets available, every­
one is invited to the 5:00 business 
meeting preceding the dinner. For 
those who plan to attend the dinner, 
tickets must i>e purchased before 
Friday, October 15.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Tech’s game with Case was as 
disappointing as it appears in the 
Cleveland papers’ write-ups. The 
Rough Riders really rode Saturday 
—snagging their first victory of the 
season in a 36-13 triumph over a 
plucky, but definitely “off,” Tartan 
crew.
Case’s opening kickoff rolled out 
of bounds on the Tech 35. After an 
offside penalty against Case, Wahr- 
enberg and Macintosh picked up a 
first down on the midfield stripe. 
Macintosh plunged for another 
yard, and then “it” happened. A 
surprise pass was intercepted by a 
Case back, who was nailed by Lit­
ton on the 38. Two line bucks net­
ted Case less than three yards. On 
the next play, Bill Lund, a fast man 
on any field, surprised the close- 
playing Skibo secondary and gallop­
ed 57 yards for a touchdown. Case 
was offside on the conversion at­
tempt and Tech declined the pen­
alty.
Landon took Tech’s kickoff and 
ran it back to the Riders’ 42. Lund 
broke through to the Tech 45 for a 
first down. Eicher cut loose around 
left end and was finally forced out 
of bounds by Macintosh on the 11- 
yard line. Salvaggio stopped Lan­
don on the 4. Lund picked up two 
yards and on the following play
New Revised C Books 
Arrive At Book Store
Yesterday, the new Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology Student Di­
rectory — commonly known as the 
“C” book—went on sale at the book 
store for twenty-five cents a copy.
The Directory contains the names, 
school and home addresses of the 
civilian and soldier students, and 
the courses of the civilian students. 
The information is divided into 
three sections; one for the women, 
one for the men, and one for the sol­
diers.
Besides the above, a fourth sec­
tion contains the names and mem­
berships of the fraternities and 
sororities. The fifth section con­
tains the names and memberships 
of the campus organizations, such 
as ACAC, Interhonorary Council, 
Interfraternity council, etc.
The “C” book, a little gray cov­
ered object with a black C on the 
cover, will always be a welcome 
link with college days in future 
years, besides serving as a useful 
reference book now.
passed to Eicher for the second 
touchdown. Manos split the center 
of the line for the conversion.
Case’s third touchdown was the 
result of a pass from Landon to 
Ziska. Probost booted the extra 
point.
Baty, Yarosz, and Probost rang up 
the Clevelanders’ fourth tally by 
rushing from the Tech 33 in six 
plays. The kick for extra p©int was 
blocked.
Case later recovered a Tech fum­
ble on the Skibo 13. Case was pen­
alized five yards, but Wolke scored 
and caught the extra point pass.
As the second half opened, Case 
led 33-0, and started many of its re­
serves. Robbins took the Case 
kickoff and was hit on the 29. Case 
was penalized, putting the ball on 
Tech’s 44. Wahrenberg sliced off 
tackle for two yards. Passes—Mac­
intosh to Hurst and Macintosh to 
Robbins — put the Tartan on the 
Case 44 with a first down. Breier 
lost two yards. Interference was 
called on Case on the next pass and 
Tech found itself only 23 yards 
from its first score of the season. 
Macintosh drove through the line 
to the 18, then passed to Robbins for
3 more yards. Wahrenberg punch­
ed his way to a first down. Mac­
intosh picked up two or three yards, 
then drove all the way to the 4. 
Case was offside, putting the ball 
on the 2. Wahrenberg again hit the 
line and made a touchdown.
Case fell on Wahrenberg’s kick- 
off in the end zone for a touchback, 
the ball being brought out to the 
20-yard stripe. Case, unable to gain, 
kicked to Breier on the Case 44. 
Dunn carried to the 41. Breier pass­
ed to Hurst, and Dunn took Hurst’s 
lateral to the 37. Dunn gained the 
valuable inches • after Wahrenberg 
was hit just short of another first 
down. Dunn plunged to the 33, then 
on to the 25. Wahrenberg rolled to 
a first down as the third period 
ended.
In the first two plays of the final 
quarter, Dunn plunged to the 12. 
After Wahrenberg gained a yard, 
Dunn passed to Robbins for another 
first down. Breier turned the left 
end for 5 yards. Dunn smashed his 
way to the two, and on the next 
play piled over. His line plunge 
gave Tech its 13th point.
Probost’s 35 yard field goal in the 
fourth quarter accounted for Case’s 
only second half score.
No matter what branch of the service you are headed for, you will find AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES the best way to carry your 
money. They are not only spendable everywhere, but they have an important 
safety feature that protects you. It is this: if they are lost or stolen, you get a prompt refund.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 751 for each 
$100. Minimum cost 401 for $10 to $50. For sale at banks and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
listen in to CHEQUE YOUR MUSIC' Station KDKA
Popular Vocal and Orehttral Hitt • 1020 on Your Dial 
MONDAY and WEDNESDAY—6:15 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Tau Delts Lead Race; 
Big Fight For Second
With three weeks of fast touch 
football concluded, we can better 
concentrate our sight on the three 
or four teams which will culminate 
the league’s fight for the champion­
ship. The Tau Delts still lead with 
7 wins and no losses and are almost 
certain to finish on top. They have 
a fast team, a fine passing attack, es­
pecially when Sunny Landerman is 
in there pitching, and some smash­
ing blockers. A1 Sher is on the 
other end of Sunny’s tosses and he 
can really pull them in. “Bud’* 
Yorkin does a good part of the 
blocking for his team, and since the 
league attributes the Tau Delts’ suc­
cess to blocking, we gather that 
“Buddy” can throw himself around 
in great fashion.
A1 Steinman also helps out in 
blocking out the opposition for his 
runners. In the two games they 
played this week, the one with the 
Jr. Chem. Eng. was the tougher. The 
“Chems” played desperately and 
gained plenty of respect for their 
efforts, but the smoother function­
ing Tau Delts won through. The 
Theta Xi’s fought harder with the 
league leaders than the final score 
would indicate. The score at half- 
time was 13-12 in favor of the ul­
timately victorious Tau Delts. It 
was in the last part of the third 
quarter that the crash came that 
enabled the Tau Delts to win 35-17.
The fight for second place is much 
closer, with Citcom Clan, SAE, and 
the Kappa Sigs in the running. Cit­
com was defeated by the Kappa 
Sigs on Tuesday by the score of 18- 
17. The game, needless to say, was 
hard fought and the lead see-sawed 
back and forth all afternoon. Reid 
Byers caught several long passes to 
set up subsequent touchdowns. 
When he wasn’t receiving, he was 
passing and pretty effectively, too. 
Bud Hathaway did well as the re­
ceiving end of some bullet passes 
thrown by Byers and A1 Nelesen. 
Thursday saw the Kappa Sigs win 
again and much more decisively 
against a demoralized DTD team 
which never found itself after a 
lightning-like play that had Kap­
pa Sigma scoring on the first play 
of the game. The final score was 
15-0.
SAE has stormed its way into a 
close fight for first place by winning 
three games this Week—a feat ac­
complished only by the league-lead- 
ing Tau Delts. Theta Xi was their 
first victim by a score of 7-0. “Tiger” 
Wylie did some fine passing which 
always had his opponents on the 
defensive. On Wednesday the
Tartans May Conquer 
The Brown And White
Have you seen the bulletin board? 
“Big Victory Dance . . . October 16 
. . . 9:00 to 1:00.” The Interhon- 
orary Council seems optimistic, and 
for once it has a basis for its 
optimism. When the two teams 
meet in their traditional rivalry 
next Saturday, the fighting Skibo 
team has a better chance than any 
they have thus far been afforded 
for emerging victorious.
When the Tech team enters the 
Pitt Stadium on Saturday, they will 
have behind them two games, two 
games in which they acquired much 
bitter experience , two games in 
which they had to fight against 
superior teams whose ranks were 
filled with men drawn from the 
Naval and Marine forces.
When the Lehigh team enters the 
Stadium, it will be for their first 
game of the season. An “Army” 
school, Lehigh had to draw this 
year’s football team from the three 
hundred and fifty deferred civilian 
students, approximately one-fifth of 
the normal enrollment. Neverthe­
less a squad of over fifty hopefuls 
turned out for practice under the 
new head-coach, Leo Prendergast. 
Most of the fifty candidates signed 
up are freshmen without previous 
feotball experience. Only six have 
played any college ball; a scattering 
were “out for football” in their high 
school days. Among the six are four 
let.termen.
On the Tartan’s side of the slate 
is the experience they have picked 
up in their battles against the pow­
erful Case and Rochester elevens. 
That ability to play together as a 
team is a valuable asset and cannot 
be overlooked.
On the Lehigh side of the ledger 
is the weight they are able to put on 
the line.
Probable Lehigh starting lineup:
PlayerPos.AgeWeightHeight
Doster, John ........___L.E.191756-3Shaheen. Ned ....___L.T.172456-2
Kurtz, Claude*. . . L.G.211936-0Donahue, John*C.201756-0
Donahue. Joe. . .R.G.1716.35-11
Kitson, Peter___R.T.191956-2Attaway, Fred* . . .___R.E.2020»6-4
Long, Robert ......... . .Q.B.201625-9
Majczan, Frank. . .L.H.221455-8
Frost, Lyster*R.H.211725-11
Davies, Richard .___F.B.181505-10
Seemillers Dairy Store 
and Luncheonette
417 S. CRAIG ST.Just Off Forbes
18 DEGREES... 
«ISO S IN SPECIAL CHISEL POINT
Whatever course you take, if drawing, 
drafting or tracing are important parts, 
Microtomic Van Dyke pencils with
HI-DENSITY LEAD
will make the going easier, foster. 
Longer wear, smooth-as-silk, even lines, 
extreme opacity without heavy pressure. 
These extra advantages make for better 
work, higher skill.
SAE’s defeated the DU’s 18-8. Again 
Wylie starred as his mammoth line 
gave him all the time that he need­
ed. The use of the wingback forma­
tion, unusual in this league, also 
figured prominently in the outcome. 
On Friday the SAE’s romped over 
the Betas 29-2, as once more “Tiger” 
passed incessantly and effectively. 
Two of the tallies came in the first 
quarter. In this game Alex McKean 
either fractured or broke his collar 
bone and will probably not see any 
more action this year.
The league was startled on Wed­
nesday by the Jr. Chem. Eng.s’ first 
victory of the season against Beta 
Sigma Rho by the score of 14-8. The 
Beta’s lost to the Independents on 
Thursday by the score of 21-20. 
Kelly of the Independents led his 
team to victory over the Beta’s who 
were led by Palmer, Davis, and 
Wallace. On Friday the tricky 
Theta Xi team inched out the Jr. 
Chem. Eng.’s 15-9. The discouraged 
Delt’s were snowed under on Mon­
day by the determined DU’s 25-9. 
Thursday, Citcom, smarting from
their defeat Tuesday, swamped the 
BSR’s 27-13. Although the one­
sided score does not indicate it, the 
game was a close one, the score be­
ing 13-12 at the beginning of the last 
quarter. However, one pass to How­
ard Johe and two passes to Dick 
Arnold of Citcom netted the com­
muters three touchdowns.
This week promises to be the most 
exciting as well as the final one of 
the season. The final standings 
show that three teams are fighting 
for first place; TD, SAE, and Kappa 
Sigma.
Here are the league standings: 
Team Won Lost Ave.
Tau Delts................ 7 0 1.000
SAE .......................... 7 1 .875
Kappa Sigma ........5 1 .833
Citcom .................... 6 2 .750
DU ............................ 4 3 .571
Independents ........ 3 3 .500
Theta Xi ................ 3 4 .429
BSR .......................... 1 4 .200
Jr. Chem. Eng.........1 7 .125
BTPi ........................ 0 6* .000
DTD ........................ 0 6* .000
*One game tied
‘Letter men.
Also in their favor are the casual­
ties our team has suffered, casual­
ties that mean that on a weakened 
Tech team rests the fate of Carnegie 
Tech.
So it is evident that anyone in the 
Pitt Stadium next Saturday when 
the Brown and White of Lehigh 
meets the Red, Green, Blue, and 
Yellow of Carnegie Tech will wit­
ness a good game, a game well 
worth seeing, and a game which 
every Tech student with any school 
spirit should attend.
AOhi-miwjtb
EBERHARD FABER
AOhiA-hmwjwt IN fine WRITING MATERIALS SINCE 1*4»
^ mil———i
ON YOUR LONG DISTANCE 
CALLING
Jl Do you keep all Long Distance calls 
as BRIEF as possible?
^ Do you make only NECESSARY 
Long Distance calls?
^ When you use Long Distance, do 
you give the operator the NUMBER 
of the distant telephone, if you can?
^ Do you avoid calling between the 
hours 7 to 10 P.M. so that Service 
Men can call home?
If you can answer “yes” to these four questions, 
you rate an A-|- for helping to keep lines clear 
for vital war calls.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 12, 194frQTtve Cartiere plaid
Council President Once More 
Compelled to Appoint Officers
Out of a total of more than eight 
hundred registered in the evening 
school, a grand total of approxi­
mately forty-five students turned 
out for the election party last Sat­
urday, October 9th, in the Recrea­
tion Room of Margaret Morrison 
Hall. This spelled practically a du­
plicate of last year’s affair, with 
President of Council, A1 Flanders, 
again being compelled to appoint 
College Officers.
Mr. Flanders opened the meeting 
by reading the present eligibility 
rules to hold office, one of the most 
important being that an insignia 
award must have been earned. Well, 
there were six eligibles from the 
College of Engineering, and only 
one from Fine Arts. With this in 
mind, together with the small at­
tendance, it was deemed advisable 
for the president to appoint his 
Council. Ed McDonald, who is in 
possession of nineteen insignia 
awards, made a motion granting the 
president such power. The motion 
was seconded and carried unan­
imously by the students present.
Mr. Flanders then made the ap­
pointments which are as follows: 
College of Engineering—President, 
Joseph M. Rymer; Vice President, 
Edward A. Macha; Secretary, Har­
old E. Park; Treasurer, Chester J. 
Biscup—College of Fine Arts—Pres­
ident, George R. Riffle; Representa­
tives, Mrs. Caroline Noll, Ruth 
Crum, and Mary De Maria. The 
representatives will attend all meet­
ings, make suggestions ,etc., but will 
be without the power to vote.
As for the social end of the party, 
there was continuous dancing to the 
latest recordings, a feature of which 
was the Virginia Reel with every­
one taking a part. A half hour’s en­
tertainment was provided by the 
“Television Kids” from station 
KDKA. Last but not least, refresh­
ments were served.
PLAID Now Mailed Out
Council has instituted a new pol­
icy which it is hoped will meet with 
the approval of the evening student 
body. Due to the fact that several 
requests have been made asking 
that the Plaid be mailed each week, 
and it has been decided that for the 
fee of $1.00 per year this can be 
done.
The general registration fee just 
covers the cost of printing the pa­
per and its distribution in school. In 
normal times placing the paper 
throughout the school was a feasible 
and appropriate plan, but since the 
soldiers, now stationed here, must 
pay $1.00 per year to receive the 
Plaid it seems only fair that those 
students who are desirous of hav­
ing their copy mailed to them be 
assessed the same fee.
Any one desiring this service is 
asked to writ^ to Student Council, 
Box 353, Carnegie Tech, enclosing 
their name and address and one 
dollar to cover the cost for one year.
Evening Students 
Widely Scattered
Students come from far and near 
to attend classes, both day and 
evening, at Carnegie Tech ,which 
proves that distance is no object in 
the field of education. A check-up 
has been made to illustrate how 
many students attend from each 
town and borough. A geographical 
survey of the evening school, pre­
sented by the Registrar’s Office for 
publication is as follows: Aceme- 
tonia 1, Allison Park 2, Blawnox 4, 
Brackenridge 2, Braddock 3, Brent­
wood 1, Bridgeville 4, Broughton 1, 
Butler 1, Carnegie 5, Cecil 1, Ches- 
wick 2, Clairton 5, Coraopolis 5, 
Creighton 2, Dixmont 1, Dravosburg 
1, Duquesne 8, East Carnegie 1, East 
McKeesport 8, East Pittsburgh 7, 
Fair Oaks 1, Gibsonia 2, Glassport 
1, Glenshaw 2, Harwick 1, Home­
stead 10, Homestead Park 3, Home- 
ville 1, Imperial 2, Ingram 1, Irwin
I, Leetsdale 1, Library 2, McKees­
port 19, McKees Rocks 4, Munhall
II, Natrona 1, North Braddock 5, 
Oakdale 2, Oakmont 6, Pitcairn 1, 
Rankin 2, Sewickley 3, Springdale 
3, Swissvale 1, Tarentum 1, Terrace 
1, Turtle Creek 13, Universal 3, Ber- 
ona 4, West View 3, Wexford 2, Wil- 
merding 7, Woodville 1.
Armstrong County: Leechburg 1; 
Beaver County: Aliquippa 3, Am- 
bridge 2, Beaver 2, Beaver Falls 2, 
New Brighton 2, Rochester 1; Butler 
County: Butler 2, Harmony 1;
Dauplin County: Colonial Park 1; 
Fayette County: Hop wood 1; Lawr­
ence County: Ell wood City 3; Wash­
ington County: Burgettstown 2,
Charleoi 2, Donora 4, Finleyville 1, 
Monongahela 2, Washington 4; 
Westmoreland County: Apollo 1,
Arnold 2, Belle Vernon 1, Export 1, 
Greensburg 3, Herminie 1, Irwin 1, 
Jeannette 2, Larimer 1, Latrobe 2, 
Manor 2, Monessen 2, New Kensing­
ton 30.
Manpower Shortage 
Effects Plaid Workers
C’mon, students—where’s that oP 
school spirit! Take part in night 
school activities and earn your In­
signia key.
Points are awarded for writing 
and typing articles for the PLAID 
as well as for taking part in plan­
ning social affairs and for helping 
at the clean-up periods. At the end 
of each year there is an Insignia 
Presentation Dinner for those stu­
dents who have earned an Insignia 
key during the year. This function 
is sponsored entirely by Evening 
Student Council.
Of course we realize that you 
night school students have a full 
schedule with your daytime jobs 
and school work, but if you do have 
spare time, come on down. We’ll be 
lookin’ for you next Friday night 
at the PLAID office in the old Pat­
tern Shop, Industries Hall 232.
Wonder why Peg Wilhelm didn’t 
show up to help on Friday night—it 
couldn’t be that the Marine was in 
town, could it? . . . The Evening 
Students ought to have parties more 
often—who knows maybe Flanders 
would get a new hair cut for all of 
them—we noticed he got his locks 
cut for the Election party . . . 
Mart, just because your husband is 
a big shot now, you don’t have to 
come down to protect your interests 
—my heart belongs to daddy (he 
hoped)—all joking aside though, we 
were glad to see you, come more 
often . . . Among the bevy of bath­
ing beauties last Wednesday night 
were Ruth Mansfield and Ethel Gen- 
osa—and here’s good news for you 
boys—they’re both single . . . Bet­
ter luck to Steve Marcinzyn in West- 
inghouse’s Golf Tournament next 
year. Steve did right well this year 
though going up to the semi-finals, 
getting beat only to be the ultimate 
winner of the tourney, A. Branni- 
gan. Steve had a score of 78 in the 
qualifying round and boy that ain’t 
hay . . . Elmer Decima looks wor­
ried everytime he runs into those 
long medical terms in psychology— 
don’t let them stump you—weaker 
men than you have survived (not 
mentioning any names) . . . Sartin 
little lady, Anne Baywell by name, 
has been promising to come and 
help on the Plaid—as an inducment 
the Ed is serving life savers and 
chewing gum—hope this induces her 
and a couple more recruits—we can 
certainly use a little more help— 
Girls don’t you think we ought to 
do something about this — John 
Heinz is the only bachelor in the 
Machine Design class—and to boot 
it all off, he’s tall, dark and hand­
some . . . That proud mechanical 
engineer from Louisiana that’s been 
strutting around the halls really got 
somethin’ to be proud of—he’s just 
received a bundle from Heaven—a 
bouncing baby boy . . . We under­
stand J. J. Agardy is offering a re­
ward to anyone who can sketch 
the mechanism of a Veeder counter 
. . . What gang gave Curt Barber 
a good send off last Tuesday night 
amidst the smell of • hamburgers, 
onions and beer—incidentally he’s 
not going into the Army but is go­
ing to serve Uncle Sam as a geo­
physicist—lots of luck to you, Curt 
. . . We had a marvelous turn out 
in Industries on Friday night but 
most of the guys just came in, said 
hello and left—we hope they liked 
us well enough to come again and 
WORK . . . We understand Bill 
Green’s went collegiate last week 
when the Plaid staff raised the roof 
on the excuse that Nancy was leav­
ing and deserved nothing but the 
best ... We hear California is be­
ing honored by the presence of 
John Deluca, Fine Arts Student, 
now in the U. S. Army.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor
Joseph Rymar
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car­negie Institute of Technology. All views or opin­ions expressed in editorial column are not neces­sarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
StaffGeorge Riffle Charles ColyerAlbert C. Flanders John HundertmarkCaroline Noll Peggy WilhelmWilliam McKelvey S. W. MarcinizynMary DeMaria
Supplements Ready 
For Distribution
At last they are here! The sup­
plements of the Handbook are avail­
able, at the Registrar’s Office in the 
Administration Building, to evening 
students who have not yet receiv­
ed one. A number of these supple­
ments were distributed during reg­
istration but due to the fact that en­
rollment was larger than expected, 
the supply was exhausted.
The purpose of the supplement is 
two-fold—first, to reduce council ex­
pense and second, to make use of the 
surplus of last year’s handbooks. 
The supplement contains very im­
portant infromation that every eve­
ning student should have; namely, 
the activities and social functions 
of the school. Get your copy as soon 
as possible.
Drama Students To 
Present 6‘Twelfth Night”
The Drama Department of the 
College of Fine Arts will present its 
first play of the 1943-44 season, ,WiL- 
lian Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night,” 
from October 9 to October 23 in the 
Little Theater of the Fine Arts 
Building.
The presentation of a Shakespear­
ean drama is an annual event in the 
Drama Department. This year’s 
play is under the able direction of 
Mr. B. Iden Payne, who last year re­
turned from England to direct 
Tech’s production of “Romeo and 
Juliet.”
Each night school student is en­
titled to two tickets for one per­
formance of each play. So step into 
the Office of the Registrar and pre­
sent your registration card to secure 
your tickets for “Twelfth Night” be­
fore they are gone.
*7o *7(4e bdmfosw
As an entering freshman this 
year, I would like to tell you my im­
pression of Tech. After a few short 
weeks here, I have come to realize 
that C. I. T. of 1943 is more than just 
an educational institution. It is a 
symbol of freedom. Here men and 
women may mingle socially and 
fraternally.
Here, there is no dictator, no rul­
ing power to tell you what you may 
or may not study. When our enemy 
invaded countries, one of his first 
steps was to suppress all education 
except of his own dictates.
Freedom of education means a 
free people. Tech, a free college in 
a free land, is well worth the sac­
rifice to keep it free. This is just 
one more illustration of why we 
should be glad we’re Americans.
