Students Voice Opinions on Shanty - see Letters to the Editor
¿¿fi Kicks 'n Tricks 'n Nasty Shticks - Here Come the Masters of the Gridiron**?
A
The Tartan
Volume 81, Issue 10Carnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 18,1986
Students Bitten by "Poisonous” Spiders on Campus
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Two CMU sophomores, Robert Pyle and 
Micheál Palombo, were bitten by spiders in 
their Margaret Morrison Apartment. 
Because of Pyle's severe reaction, the spiders 
were believed to be poisonous Brown 
Recluses.
According to Security reports, Pyle was 
first bitten on Sunday, September 7, in his 
sleep. The bite was on his chest, over his 
heart, and he had to be transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital on Monday, 
September 8 at 12:31am. Because the venom 
of the Brown Recluse can cause gangrene, 
the tissue surrounding the bite had to be 
surgically removed. Housing was notified 
the same day.
Ida Czamecki, Housing Maintanence 
Coordinator, stated that the exterminating 
company, Rentokil, responded on Tuesday 
September 9, to spray the apartment. She 
said the apartment was thoroughly inspected, 
sprayed with the insecticide "Knox-Out", 
fogged with a Pyrethrin fog, and set with 
glue traps. No spiders were found, and 
according to her, alternate housing was 
offered to the four students living in the 
apartment.
On October 22, Security records indicate
that Pyle was again transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital at 12:24am for a 
second bite. This one was on his leg.
A conflicting Rentokil report states that 
"on October 21, the apartment was 
inspected...in response to the second bite." 
The same report says that the apartment was 
inspected by Rentokil's district
entomologist, Ed Kwater, and no insects
“There is absolutely 
no evidence...it was 
a Brown Recluse [in 
this instance].”
were found. The apartment was then treated 
with a 30 day risidual insecticide, Dursban.
On October 23, Czamecki said the students 
were asked to evacuate the 27th and 28th so 
that the apartment could be thoroughly 
fogged. They were offered rooms at the 
University Inn. They refused.
In a report dated November 5, Rentokil 
treated the apartment on October 28 for 
Brown Recluse spiders. They again used 
Knox-out, treated the cracks, fogged with
Pyrethrum, and reset the glue traps. Still no 
spiders were found.
The students still had not completely 
moved out; Pyle and his roommate had, but 
Palombo and his roommate had not. On 
November 5, Palombo was bitten in the leg 
and sought treatment at the Student Health 
Center. *
In another Rentokil report, the 6th of 
November found them once again on the 
scene. This time they found a live spider in 
the room in which Pyle had been bitten. 
The spider was taken to John Rawlings of 
the Carnegie Museum for identification, and 
he determined it to be a Running Spider 
(Dysdere Crocatra). The Rentokil report 
stated, "...This spider does not seem to be 
dangerous. All spiders bite and have venom 
which can react in different ways on different 
people. I feel safe to say that this is the 
little 'bugger' that was or is, biting the
students."
Housing denies that it could have been a 
Brown Recluse Spider; they contest that 
Pyle simply had a severe allergic reaction to 
a normal spider bite. Michael Murphy, 
Assistant Director of Housing for Residence 
Life, said, "There is absoutely no evidence... 
it was a Brown Recluse." The doctors at 
the Health Center told him that there is no 
way to tell from a bite what kind of spider it 
was. The supervisor at Rentokil, Dan 
Janowski, told him, "quite frankly, I do not 
believe the bite was from a Brown Recluse 
spider." Rawlings told him they were not 
indiginous to this area. But perhaps the 
most damning evidence came from the 
Health Department of Allegheny County; all 
health care facitities are to report to them 
any treatment of Brown Recluse, Black 
Widow, Scorpion, or any other toxic insect 
bites- as of November 6, 1986 no such 
reports had been filed.
According to Murphy, the only thing 
housing could have done differently would 
have been to mandate to the students they 
get out of the apartment so that it could have 
been sprayed. "Our biggest concern is safety 
and care of residents."
Neither Pyle nor Polombo could be reached 
for comment.
Trustees Defer Divestment Issue; Shanty Still Standing
By JEAN COOKSEY 
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Monday, November 11, at the Board 
of Trustees Meeting, the Finance 
Committee voted to defer the issue of 
divestment. Members claimed that 
divestment is not purely a financial matter, 
and thus warrants the attention of the 
Executive Committee. Members of the 
Executive Committee will research the 
issue, and will present a decision on partial 
divestment to the Board of Trustees in 
February, at the next general meeting. This 
decision has upset students of the campus 
anti-apartheid organization, Students Against 
Apartheid, who see it as a weak attempt to 
face the issue of divestment. Members of 
the administration and Student Affairs 
support the decision, however, and see it as a 
symbol of the university's interest and 
responsibility in regard to this serious 
problem.
The Executive Committee has two goals 
regarding divestment: to appoint a
committee to investigate the behavior of the 
South African companies in which Carnegie 
Mellon has investments and determine 
whether they adhere to the Sullivan 
Principles or their equivalent, and to 
determine if divestment serves any useful 
purpose in opposing apartheid.
Members of SAA, who support total 
divestment, don't see the need for further 
inquiry. They view the decision as needless 
complication of a simple matter. Greg 
Staresinic, Chairman of SAA and 
spokesperson for the group, says, "I've seen 
no convincing arguments against partial 
divestment. This is a very weak decision."
Dean of Student Affairs, Brad Walter and 
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs, Lois Cox 
are in favor of the Committee's vote for 
further investigation into the matter. "I 
think it's a good decision. It shows that the 
university is taking a responsible position, 
instead of putting the issue aside," says 
Cox. Walter agrees: "I have no problem 
with the decision; it’s something that needs 
to be investigated."
Although initial relations between SAA 
and Student Affairs were strained regarding 
the shanty, the two groups are now 
comfortable. "I have the responsibility to 
see that all opinions regarding an issue get a 
voice in the university community," says 
Cox. "SAA has an opinion on apartheid and 
divestment's role in apartheid, so the 
university must protect the group's right to 
speak and be heard. That is why we provided 
fire extinguishers for the shanty, and told 
Security to protect the structure." Both 
Cox and Walter support the shanty's 
existence. "President Cyert's original 
concern was that the shanty would become 
many shanties, but once the guidelines for 
the shanty were established, he fully 
supported it," says Walter. He adds, 
Because we weren't notified of SAA's 
intention, it created an unnecessary dilemma, 
dividing attention between opposition to 
apartheid and opposition to the shanty 
itself."All vocal parties involved in the 
divestment issue feel that the existence of 
the shanty has increased the consciousness of 
the campus community regarding apartheid, 
whether positive or negative. "It preserves 
attention to the issue, and forces people to
face the university's role in the South 
African situation," says Walter. Staresinic 
claims, "I'm not sure of the impact it [the 
shanty] has had on the divestment issue, but 
it has made people recognize that a problem 
exists."
In addition, the shanty has brought students 
together, where other, more direct forms of 
opposition, have alienated them. "People 
will come up to the shanty to discuss the 
issue and ask questions, while they avoid 
picket lines. We've had some good 
[impromptu] discussions, and guest speakers 
on apartheid come every so often," says 
Staresinic.
Some students do not agree with SAA's
position or the symbol that the shanty 
represents. Early last Friday morning, some 
people vandalized the shanty while students 
were sleeping inside it. A plywood wall was 
pushed inward, falling into the shanty, and a 
dent was made in the back wall. No one 
was hurt. The incident was reported to 
Security, and one of the offenders was 
identified.
Staresinic claims that although SAA has 
no immediate plans to oppose the Board's 
decision, the shanty will remain 
"indefinitely". He also states that the group 
will continue to hold impromptu "lectures" 
South Africa i nd distribute leaflets to educate 
the CMU com* iunity.
photo by Eric W. Lculieoc
Todd Hunt Sr., a lifetime Trustee of CMU, addresses the Board at 
Monday's meeting

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—November 18,1986
Government Studies 
U.S. Aid to Israel
A study commissioned by the Israeli 
government shows that Israel has not spent 
its civilian aid from the United States 
wisely. The authors say Israel could have 
made do with half the funds received since 
1978, if it had invested the six billion 
dollars in growth industries instead of social 
services and business subsidies. The 
researchers said Israel needed every penny of 
military aid it has received from the US.
And now...Bob Aid
Another organization has taken notice of 
the humanitarian work done by Irish rock 
singer Bob Geldof. The man behind Band 
Aid, Live Aid and Sport Aid has been 
awarded the 100-thousand dollar Third World 
Prize. The Third World Foundation cited 
Geldof s extraordinary effort to help African 
famine victims.
Pentagon 
Ways of 
Unclassified 
from Soviets
Studying
Keeping
Info
The Pentagon is studying ways to make it 
tougher for the Soviets to get information 
stored in unclassified computerized 
government and commercial data banks. The 
data banks hold information ranging from 
news stories to highly technical scientific 
research papers, and some private executives 
question whether the government can "put a 
muzzle" on them.
Wholesale Prices 
Continue to Climb
For the third month in a row, wholesale 
prices have gone up. Increases in food and 
new car prices boosted inflation at the 
wholesale level by point-three percent last 
month. The Labor Department says an 
almost 20-percent hike in the cost of fresh 
fruit more than offset a drop in gas and other 
energy prices. So far this year, wholesale 
prices actually have fallen at an annual rate 
of three-point-two percent.
In addition, The Commerce Department 
reports retail sales plunged by five percent in 
October. That's the biggest decline on record.
Iran Denies U.S.
Talks; Reagan Says
Arms Weren't Traded 
for Hostages
Iran's president is reportedly calling 
President Reagan's claims of diplomatic 
talks betweeen US and Iranian officials 
"mere lies." Iran's official news agency 
quotes Ali Khamenei as saying that US 
officials might have held talks with 
"international smugglers, perhaps." He also 
said relations with the US won't improve 
until America abandons what he calls its 
"spirit of aggression and expansion."
In his nationally broadcast speech Thursday 
night, President Reagan justified re-opening 
contacts with Iran by stressing the strategic 
impoitance of the Islamic nation, and 
Reagan confirmed the US sent weapons to 
Iran, but he said they were never any part of 
a deal to free hostages being held in 
Lebanon.
Whatever the motive, some members of 
Congress don't like the administration's 
move. Both Republicans and Democrats 
have called it a mistake, and a House 
Committee investigation of the deal could begin in about a week and a-half.
the friendly professionals
3407 Saw Mill Run Blvd. (route 51) Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15227882-5800
MASTER CHARGE AND VISA
STORE HOURS
Tues., Thurs. 9-9 Mon., Wed., Fri. 9-5 Sat. 10-5
IBM 
COMPATIBLE
$695.00
* 135 WATT PWR SUPPLY
* TWO:360 K FLOPPIES 
*ONE PARALLEL PORT 
*TWO SERIAL PORTS
* ONE YEAR WARRANTY
* MS/DOS
FREE !
SANYO STEREO 
WITH SPEAKERS
WITH THE PURCHASE OF
20 MEGABYTE 
SYSTEM
FOR ONLY
$1295.00
Healthy Diet Advised 
for Smokers
A study says a healthy diet seems to 
improve a smoker's chances of avoiding 
Cancer. The study, published in the New 
England Journal of Medicine, says smokers 
with low levels of vitamin E in their blood 
are two and a half times more likely to get 
Lung Cancer than are those with high 
amounts. Researchers caution the study 
doesn't prove a good diet can protect a 
smoker.
Radon 2nd Leading 
Cause of Lung 
Cancer
Both the Environmental Protection Agency 
and a nuclear physicist who did some 
government research agree: Radon gas in the 
home may cause more Lung Cancer deaths 
than anything but cigarettes. It's the first 
study that calculates the average amount of 
Radon that leaks into homes from Uranium 
and Radium in the underlying soil.
Yes, Virginia, There 
IS a Santa Claus (and
you’re going to hell if you 
believe in him)
Lawyers for a Tennessee school board say 
they warned a federal judge about the effects 
of bis decision allowing parents to pull 
children out of class because of religious 
objections to textbooks. Other objections 
have now been registered in other school 
systems, including one from a Virginia 
couple. They're demanding celebrations 
involving Santa Claus and Halloween be 
dropped from a Bristol elementary school, on 
grounds that they're "pagan celebrations."
Yeah, but he still 
can't take his clients 
out for a drink
Stephen Baccus argued his first case before 
he actually became a lawyer. The 17 year-old 
last week persuaded Florida's Supreme Court 
to waive a law that requires people signing 
vaild contracts to be at least 18. They did, 
and Baccus was sworn in as a practicing 
lawyer yesterday. He's now studying for a 
masters degree in computer science.
Help for Alzheimer's 
Victims
Researchers say elderly people who didn't 
even know their own children's names 
because of Alzheimer's Disease have been 
able to recognize family members again after 
taking an experimental drug. Dr. William 
Summers writes in this weeks New England 
Journal of Medicine. He says the drug 
significantly improved the memories of 16 
of 17 senile people who received it. 
However, the drug cannot be routinely 
prescribed by physicians until researchers 
learn more about it.
Vatican Upset over 
Archbishop's 
Liberalism
America's Roman Catholic bishops have 
sided with The Vatican in disciplinary action 
taken against a fellow bishop. A statement 
released in Washington after five hours of 
secret meetings said the Church's action
against Seattle Archbishop Raymond 
Hunthausen deserved "respect and 
confidence." The Vatican considered 
Hunthausen too liberal in matters such 
ministering to homosexuals and divorced 
Catholics. He was told to turn over much of 
his authority to an auxiliary bishop.
Supreme Court Looks 
at Affirmative Action
The Supreme Court has again taken up the 
issue of affirmation action. During the last 
term, the high court rulings on affirmative 
action dealt primarily with hirings and 
layoffs. This time it's hearing arguments on 
the practice of preferential job promotions 
for women and minorities.
The Boss Creates 
More Work for New 
Jersey
CBS Records says the success of Bruce 
Springsteen's new concert album set means 
more work for the New Jersey factory 
workers who are cranking out the five-record 
sets, but they aren't complaining. Three- 
hundred layoffs had been scheduled there next 
month, but because of demand for the 
album, the plant has people on overtime and
has hired 40 extra workers.
New blurbs appear courtesy 
of the Associated Press
Locrfc, by now you're probably as tired 
reading these things as I am writing them.
I mean, every single (unprintable) week I 
beg and whine and (unprintable) for help, 
and whaddaya you do? You laugh at me, 
for Albrecht's sake! You blow me off! 
You turn the page! Well, I've reached the 
end of my rope. I've got an exacto knife 
in my hands. This is it I'm not kidding. 
Go on, laugh - you’ll be sorry. Nope, you 
can't stop me. No, don’t even bother 
to call me at x2111 and say you'll write 
news. It’s just too late.
Rizzo to Seek 
Mayordom of Philly 
Again
(Philadelphia) — Former Mayor Frank 
Rizzo resigned his security job at the 
Philadelphia Gas Works today. A source 
close to Rizzo says the former mayor is 
planning to quit the Democratic party to run 
as a Republican against incumbent Mayor 
Wilson Goode. Rizzo was mayor from 1972 
to 1980. He has been working at the city- 
owned Gas Works as a consultant since 
September 1984.
USX Labor,
Management Far 
From Settlement
(Pittsburgh) — USX Corporation 
Chairman David Roderick and United 
Steelworkers Union President Lynn 
Williams are continuing their face-to-face 
negotiations in the 104 day old walkout by 
the company's 22-thousand active 
steelworkers. There is no word of progress 
toward a contract settlement. A company 
spokesman has declined to comment on the 
meeting or the issues that are on the table, 
but the two sides are known to have 
disagreed before on the company's true labor 
costs, a crucial point in its demands for labor 
concessions.

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986—The Tartan—Page 3
The Widening Rift Between the U.S. and Europe
By ALEX HOOSHMAND
Tartan Staffwriter
As the U.S.-Iranian arms deal affair drags 
on, there are those who look on with 
special resentment. They are America's 
European allies who, over the past years 
have been the subject of sharp U.S. rhetoric 
concerning their lack of cooperation in 
dealing with the world-wide terrorist 
menace. Now it is their turn to counter 
with thinly veiled criticsm of what seems 
to be after all great U.S. hypocracy.
The current coolness between the sides of the
It
Atlantic 
alliance, how­
ever, can be 
traced back to 
Reykjavik where President Reagan
promptly played into Mr. Gorbachev's 
hand, managing to alienate all parties at the 
summit. Objection in Europe was voiced 
by all sides but the immediate and most 
vociforous response came from left-wing 
parties and alternative movements 
throughout Europe. Organizations such as
the Green Party in Germany, which
demands unilateral disarmament by Western 
Europe, and the British Labor Party, which 
is running on a platform of a nuclear 
weapons free Britain, were quick to voice 
their aggravation over the President's failure 
to agree upon a break-through deal at 
Reykjavik.
Europeans were especially angry about the 
summits apparent failure over the issue of 
the Strategic Defense Initiative. The 
American President's dream of a shield over 
America holds little appeal for the average 
European, precisely because it would be 
"over America" and would be useless in 
defending the Europeans who are much 
nearer to the enemy to be shielded from the
full force of the Soviet juggernaut in case 
of attack. Even the business community in 
Europe has shown a lukewarm response to 
Star Wars. Contracts for European 
companies are too small to attract much 
enthusiasm, and hope for recouping their 
investments through spin-offs is 
nonexistent considering the U.S.’ recent 
obssession with technology leakage. There 
is a creeping suspicion that SDI is a 
creation of the so called U.S. 
military/business complex mainly at the 
expense of European security and 
disarmament.
Criticism of Reykjavik has also come 
from a somewhat unexpected quarter. The 
moderate to conservative governments 
ruling in Europe, far from criticizing Mr. 
Reagan's stand against Mr. Gorbachev, 
have actually criticized him for being soft 
in the negotiations and failing to protect 
European interests. Originally they showed 
full unanimous support for the President's 
decisions at Reykjavik in fear of damaging 
the alliance's image of solidarity. Yet they 
were not much happier with what Mr. 
Reagan had nearly agreed to at the summit. 
America's acceptance of what is known as 
"the zero-zero option", the total 
dismantling of intermediate range ballistic 
missies in Europe, would leave Old World 
dangerously vulnerable in the face of the 
Warsaw Pact's overwhelming superiority in 
conventional arms. Moreover, most of 
Europe would still be under the threat of 
short range ballistic missies stationed in 
Eastern Europe. The U.S.' only response to 
a Russian attack could be an all out nuclear 
war and most European leaders refuse to 
believe that the President would sacrifice 
millions of American lives to save Europe.
The zero-zero option would also excercise
a devastating effect on the 
moderate/conservative parties now ruling in 
Europe who had pushed hard for the 
deployment of Cruise Missiles and the 
Pershing II on their respective soils at a 
tremendous political cost. Combined with 
the people's frustration over Mr. Reagan's 
failure to secure a future free of fear of 
nuclear annihilation, it could lead to the 
ascendance of the leftist anti-American 
parties such as the German Social 
Democratic Party or the British Labor Party 
in Europe. Thus it was no surprise that the 
German Chancellor, Mr. Helmut Kohl,
soon publicly stated his objections to 
Reykjavik and reinforced his point during 
his recent visit to Washington. British 
Prime Minister, Mrs. Thatcher, is bound to 
have the same point on the agenda during 
her visit to Camp David.
With the deteriorating relationship inside 
the Atlantic alliance, the U.S. will have to 
look more and more to Europe in trying to 
bridge the ever widening rift between the 
two partners. If the U.S. continues to 
ignore European interests, it could lead to 
permanent alienation of its allies across the 
Atlantic.
Professor Wolfenstein to be 
Honored for Activism
The Thomas Merton Center will present 
its annual “New Person Award” to two 
local university professors, John Townsend 
and Lincoln Wolfenstein. The award is 
traditionally given to Pittsburghers who 
have made outstanding contributions in the 
area of promotion of peace and social 
justice in the local community. The event 
will take place on Wednesday, November 
19, at St. Paul Cathedral High School 
Cafeteria, 144 N. Craig St., beginning at 
7:30 p.m. The award will be preceded by a 
dinner beginning at 6:30 p.m.
Wolfenstein, University professor at 
CMU, who has taught there since 1948, 
and Townsend, who has been teaching
physics at the University of Pittsburgh 
since 1954, collaborated on a study 
published in 1962, entitled “The Effects of 
Nuclear War on the Pittsburgh Area.” Since 
that publication, both have worked 
tirelessly to help the Pittsburgh 
community to think globally and act 
locally. As an example of their efforts, 
Wolfenstein has helped assure that 2/3 of 
the faculty of CMU's-Physics Department 
have signed the national pledge refusing to 
work on the SDI (Star Wars) Project.
Tickets can be purchased through the 
Merton Center and the donation requested is 
$6 for adults; $3.50 for limited income; $2 
for children.
Features is fun 
Features is nice 
If you don t write for Features 
Albrecht will put you on ice.
7b! !
Student Senate
Hunt Library
Tuesday, November 18 and Wednesday, November 19 
9am - 9pm 9am - 8pm
Get involved!The Link!
Get motivated!
GO VOTE! 
Strengthen the LinkLet yourself be heard!
-Another A-Phi-O Service
-
-Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—November 18, 1986
Crime and Incident Report
ll/S 1:49 P\1 Suspicious Person - A 
suspicious Black male was observed near 
Skibo banking machines. possibly
attempting to sell marijuana.
.11/9 2:0N A\1 Security officer observed 
two White males driving in a blue anti 
white university Cushman behind 
Morewood Gardens. The males tied, and 
the vehicle was returned.
ll/ll 1:14 AM Suspicious Person -
Second floor Baker Hall. A White male 
described as tall, wearing glasses, a 
raincoat, short pants, sneakers, and having
bad body odor, scared an ABM worker and 
was observed to be acting strangely bv 
several other workers.
1 1/1 1 4:30 PM Theft - A blue backpack 
was stolen from mens locker room in 
gv 111.
11/12 2:44 AM Suspicious Persons - Two 
White males were observed hunched down 
bv a car in Mudge driveway. When a 
security officer stopped to investigate, the 
males tied. A wooden lamp table, similar 
to those in Mudge lobby, was found near 
the car.
All-Weather Track Arrives
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan staffwriter
"The track will be a tremendous asset to 
the Univeristy," sums up CMU men’s track 
coach Gary Meckley. CMU is in the 
process of refurbishing its track from a 
cinder top to black top and rubber. "We 
were running on a track in the 1920’s style; 
we’re hoping this track will bring us into 
the 80’s," comments Meckley. Women's 
track coach Gerri Seidl agrees saying, "it 
will be very helpful if they get it in by 
March. It will be great to practice on it 
early in the year."
Director of Design and Construction, 
Tom Murphy, expresses much doubt that 
the track would be completed this fall. 
"We will hold to next Spring. At the time 
of the bidding and construction we knew we 
might have to push it back into the 
spring." The $50,000 project slows in cold 
weather because the one inch rubber coat 
can only be applied in 70 degree weather. 
The rubber cools considerably in the hour 
drive from the factory. Meckley expects 
two or three practices and possibly one 
home meet to be cancelled.
Meckley insists that he played a minor
role in getting the improvements. He 
priced some contractors to see if CMU 
could afford the project before asking 
Design and Construction to take on the 
project. Murphy responded to the "strong 
request from the athletic department" for the 
new track. The contract was awarded to 
Casper Construction from Monroeville.
The track teams will hardly monopolize 
the new facility. Meckley expects the 
teams will use it for one and half hours a 
night for only two or three months of the 
year. The majority of the time it can be 
used by other atheletes, ROTC, instructors, 
and the general student body. Spiked shoes 
are strongly discouraged by the track coach 
and Murphy will insist that no heavy 
vehicles drive on the surface. Runners can 
also expect minor puddles on the track until 
additional drainage is installed.
Meckley feels sure that he'll be able to 
recruit much easier with a modem track. 
Futhermore, he expects other departments 
to benefit similarly. Faculty in other 
departments have confided in him that they 
have had trouble recruiting graduate 
students and faculty because of weaknesses 
in CMU's atheletic facilities.
Plfff f*
photo by Eric W. Leuliette
The new track isn't finished yet, but will serve runners and the track 
teams more efficiently come spring, when it will be completed.
This holiday season, 
get the“ Write Stuff ’ 
at the right price.
Now you cun get the competitive 
edge when classes begin in January Uitli a 
Macintosh ’ personal computer, and all tl* 
nrite extras
We call it tlie Macintosh Write Stiff) 
bundle You II call it a great deal! Because 
when vou buv a Macintosh Write Stuff 
bundle before January 9. 198’. you II receive 
a bundle of extras—and save Siio.
Not only will you get your choice of a 
Macintosh S12K Enhanced c>r a Macintosh 
Plus, you'll also get an Image Writer’1' II 
printer, the perfect solution for producing 
near letter-quality term papers or reports, 
complete with graphs, charts, and 
illustrations
Plus, you II get MacUghtning. ^ 
the premier spelling checker con­
taining an 80,000 word dictionary 
with options for
thesaurus, medical or legal dictionaries 
Together with your favorite Macintosh word 
processing software, you can transform 
vour notes into the clearest, most letter 
perfect papers you ever turned out And 
turned in on time
VC hat s more, there s a Macintosh 
Support Kit tilled with valuable accessories 
and computer care products from 3M * 
Complete with all the things you need to 
keep your Macintosh running long after 
you've graduated
Ijet us show you how to get through 
college better, faster, and smarter Stop in 
and see us for more information
Need a Place to Live? Homesharing Opportunity 
Offered by Housing Ministries
The large element of truth in some well- 
known maxims — "two can live more 
cheaply than one" — "by working together 
we can do it in half the time" — "eating 
alone is not much fun" — shows why 
Homesharing is often found to work out for 
unrelated people who have chosen to live 
together to make their dollars stretch further 
and their lives more pleasurable.
Housing Ministries Inc. (HMI), an 
ecumenical nonprofit organization 
established to develop noninstitutional 
living arrangements for older persons, is 
developing a Homesharing program to 
serve all residents of Allegheny County. 
This intergenerational program is designed 
for persons who find a shared living 
arrangement can be comfortable, 
economical and supportive way to increase 
the quality of their lives.
Homesharing is an old idea that many find 
increasingly effective for meeting today's 
needs and lifestyle preferences. Older 
persons can have an opportunity to gain 
security and companionship while sharing 
their large homes which may have become 
a burden to maintain by themselves. 
Persons of all ages can stretch their 
personal resources while gaining a more 
comfortable home and new friends. Shared 
living can also be an approach for 
strengthening neighborhoods by helping 
older residents stay in a community where 
they have established roots and where their 
presence contributes to neighborhood 
stability.
HMI is located at 200 Ross Street,
Suite 607, Pittsburgh 15219. For
additonal information, call 392-3123.
STUDY TECHNIQUES 
SEMINARS
A peer study counselor will present:
Session 2:
"Making the most of your study time" Saturday, November 22, 1986, 11am - noon, SKIBO 210
Session 3:
"Effective Term paper writing & exam 
taking"Saturday, December 6, 1986, 11 am - noon, SKIBO 12
fMd White I ff' r iMl C 1W- hfpte Computer Me Aff4r mä *t Apple tofu an rtpslrrrd Iraämori» tif Apple Computer Im 
Macmto* and tmq/fnttr arr fradmwrfc of Wpie Computer tm MacLmbtnm “ » *adem*rt <if tryrt ^tuare h*c

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986 - The Tartan- Page 5
WHEN IS THE RIGHT TIME TO CUI YPUB GBANDWREMTS?
Pat Crecine, Senior Vice President 
for Academic Affairs, speaks at the 
inauguration.
of Baker Hall featured speeches from 
President Cyert, IBM cxeculivc, toward
Lucente, CMU Vice Presidents Pat Crecine
and Bill Arms, among others, and
demonstrations of Andrew's capbilities.
Andrew is the software environment that 
supports a distributed system of advanced- 
function workstations deployed on a high­
speed local area network on the Carnegie 
Mellon Campus.
The netowrk was established using an IBM 
Token Ring configuration. The commitment 
to the Token Ring was made in April of
1985.
Since this commitment was made, 
Carnegie Mellon wired all campus buildings, 
including residence halls, with 300 miles of 
IBM cabling. The wiring took 18 months. 
Buildings are interconnected with fiber-optic 
cables via two central locations.
The network currently supports multiple 
advance workstations and personal computers 
including the IBM RT PC and IBM PCs. 
3,000 users are currently registered. This 
number will expand to 7,000 in the next two 
to three years.
The predominant traffic on the network is 
file transfer associated with the Andrew 
distributed file system and mail, and Andrew 
application.
To facilitate the Andrew project, IBM and 
Carnegie Mellon agreed to create the 
Infroamtion Technology Center (ITC) in 
October 1982.
The ITC is an organization of 
approximately 30 people. Ten ITC 
employees are IBM employees assigned to 
the project. Other members are Carnegie 
Mellon employees. The purpose of the ITC 
is to design and develop the computing 
technology envisioned by Carnegie Mellon 
to support the Network.
The goal of the project is to affect higher 
education in four major directions: Computer- 
aided instruction, Creation and use of new 
tools, communication, and information 
access.
Because the advanced workstations 
currently running Andrew have good graphic 
capabilities, one of the ITC's main goals is
a) Five minutes into “The Lawrence Welk Show’.’
b) About a week before your birthday.
c) When you just want to tell them you miss them, and that you ate the last of Grandma’s chocolate-chip cookies this morning.
There’s nothing grandparents like better than a call from a 
grandchild in college. But if you do accidentally happen to inter­
rupt Lawrence, you ought to have something worth telling them.
For example, you could mention that you called using 
AT&T Long Distance Service because you can depend on AT&T’s 
high quality service and exceptional value.
And then you can tell them that AT&T gives you 
immediate credit if you dial a wrong number.
And that you can count on AT&T for 
clear long distance connections.
Finally, of course, you should 
quickly reassure them that 
you’re eating 
enough, then let 
them hurry 
back to the TV 
to catch the 
rest of the _
Lennon Sisters 
Blue Oyster 
Cult medlev.
AT&T
The right choice
©1986 AT&T
« AMERICAN GREETINGS CORP
Carnegie Mellon, IBM celebrate Andrew inauguration
By LISA D. MCANANY 
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Lauding the accomplishment as an example 
of how productive cooperation between 
universities and industry can be, Carnegie 
Mellon and IBM formally presented the 
Andrew network this week.
Representing four years of combined effort 
of personnel from Carnegie Mellon and the 
International Business Machines Corpo­
ration, the network is one of the largest of 
its kind and will hopefully act as a model for 
other universities wishing to establish a 
computer intensive environment 
The inauguration, which took place on 
Tuesday November 11 in the Adamson Wing
to develop software and tools that allow 
users to access the graphics capabilities with 
ease. This objective has led to the 
development of a window manager that 
enables several processes to share the display 
screen at once, packages for management of 
graphics and text and applicatiosns that use 
the window manager and these packages.
The Andrew system is still only in the 
middle statges of development, but faculty 
members have already begun to create 
applications in various disciplines. 
Differential equations, architecture, chemical 
equilibrium analysis, American history, 
writing, circuit design and analysis and 
dmusic composition are just a few of the 
areqas in which applications for the Andrew 
capabilities have been found.
Since the Andrew project was conceived in 
the early '80's, the computing environment 
at Carnegie Mellon has changed consid­
erably.
Research by Sara Kiesler of the Social and 
Decision Sciences Department shows how 
computing has evolved in the past few years.
In 1981, Carnegie Mellon owned 131 
computers. In 1986, 4,510 computers are 
owned by the university.
Currently about 35% of the students here 
own a computer. Thaere are 7242 students 
currently enrolled at Carnegie Mellon.
41% of the faculty members own a 
computer. There are 418 faculty at the 
university.
In addition, the university employs 512 
computer professionals.
The computer environment at Carnegie 
Mellon is also a diverse one. The computer 
equipment on campus was manufactured by 
101 different firms.
There are 637 public electronic bulletin 
boards on the computer network. On these 
"bboards" people post messages on topics 
ranging from coursework to sailing and 
recipes.
The next step in the implementation of 
Andrew is to export the system to other 
institutions. The system has already been 
sent to about 30 universities on an 
experimental basis.
Sometime around the middle of 1987, the 
program should be packaged and ready for 
sale to other colleges and universities 
interested in implementing an Andrew-based 
network.Bill Arms, V.P. for Computing and 
Information Systems addresses 
audience in the Adamson Wing.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - The Tartan - November 18,1986
Carnegie Mellon hosts educational computing software fair
From biology to bilingual wordprocessing, 
from logic to library research.Such was the 
range of software presented and demonstrated 
at the recent software fair held at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Hie purpose of the recent fair was to 
encourage informal interaction among users 
and developers of the latest in software. Over 
40 colleges and universities were represented 
at the fair and well over 100 programs were 
demonstrated to participant. The software 
fair was held in the Skibo Ballroom. It ran 
from Monday November 10th through 
Tuesday the 11th.
Major sponsors for the event were The 
Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation, 
Carnegie Mellon University and The 
Western Pennsylvania Advanced TEchnology 
Center. The software fair is the latest of a 
series of projects sponsored by the Benedum 
Regional College Computer Enrichment 
Program. This program, which has been in 
existence for two years, concentrates on 
developing academic computing within a 
league of small colleges in western 
Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
The fair focused on low-cost educational 
software that run on microcomputers and is
currendy in use in undergraduate classes. 
Some of the courseware that was on display 
runs on advanced-function workstations like 
the machines currently being used to 
implement the Andrew system here at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Among the participants in the fair who 
demonstrated software were Brown 
Universitye, Cornell, Dartmouth College, 
Hong Kong University, North Carolina 
State, MIT, Stanford, The University of 
Pittsburgh, Yale and The University of 
Texas-Austin.
A number of machines were featured at the
fair to run the exhibited software. The 
majority of programs were run on the IBM 
PC, /RT, /XT, the Apple II or Mac Plus, 
but other machines included the Microcax II, 
the DEC VS-II, the Sony View System, and 
the AT&T 6300+.
The software exhibit continued in Skibo 
Hall on Wednesday and Thursday for the 
benefit of the EDUCOM Conference 
participants. Antendees were able to browse, 
run programs, and talk with developers. A 
cross section of disciplines were represented 
including biological science, chemistry, 
computer science, English, mathematics,
history, philosophy/logic, physics and psychology.
Also demonstrated from the Center for 
Design and Educational Computing were the 
CMU Tutor authoring environment and 
programs developed by undergraduates in the 
CDEC Scholarship program. The Inter- 
University Consortium for Educational 
Computing (ICEC) members, whose 
principal goal is to develop high-quality 
educational applications for advanced 
function workstations, demonstrated the 
programs developed for the workstations using the CMU Tutor.
Cyert addresses Andrew inauguration
The following are excerpts of the speech 
presented by Dr. Richard Cyert, President of 
Carnegie Mellon, at the inauguration of the 
Andrew network.
The opening today of the Carnegie Mellon 
campus network is the culmination of a 
dream that I have held for six years. With the 
advent of microcomputers, I envisaged a 
situation in which each student, each faculty 
member, and most staff members had access 
to a computer system that would be
connected together. I saw such a system as 
an alternative to time sharing. It was 
obvious to me after many years of living 
with a time-sharing system that it was not 
the right system for a university. Time­
sharing works only with restrictions on the 
number of users. It was also clear that we 
needed a commercial partner to complete 
such a job and that there were commercial 
possibilities in the concept of the network. I 
was pleased, therefore, when IBM indicated a
PICKUP
THIS BUD'S 
FOR YOU!
strong interest in the project....
The two organizations had to work closely 
together to complete this project. It is truly 
an amazing accomplishment in my view for 
a business firm and a university to have 
accomplished this task in four years....
The establishment of the network 
accomplishes two major objectives: 1) it 
does give an alternative to conventional time­
sharing and (2) it eliminates the terrible 
prolems that we...all understand about time­
sharing. So that if nothing else were 
accomplished, we have established a major 
alternative for universities and business 
organizations for a computer system.
A major aim, however, has been to affect 
education in a significant way. The hidded 
aganda has always been to bring about a 
revolution in the way higher education is 
carried on. As the project to establish the 
physical netowrk progressed, we also 
developed an organization to do the software 
that was going to be required to make the 
network truly useful in education. In the 
period that the network has been under 
construction, the faculty and students on this 
campus alone have developed some 200 
programs that are modules of courses or 
supplements to courses. These programs 
will be available to students to increase their 
productivity in learning. In addition, we have 
been able to automate the card catalogue for 
the library so that students will be able to go 
through the cart catalogue from their 
dormitory rooms or any other spot where 
they are using a work station. This part of 
the project has only begun. We are working 
hard to develop more elctronic publishing 
and to make more use of the tapes of books 
and journals that are already in existence on 
the library system....
One president advised higher education to 
be "cautiously optimistic" about the use of 
computers in education. My advice is for all 
universities to move as rapidly as possible 
in this direction with as many resources as 
can be made available. Those who do not 
will be left at the starting gate . The 
revolution is under way and as always the 
prizes are to be won by those with the 
foresight and the courage to grasp the 
opportunity enthusiastically and to work 
hard to achieve the objectives.... We have 
our greatest opportunity since the Gutenberg 
Press was invented, and we must not fail.Tustee Lucente 
speaks at 
Andrew opening
The following are excerpts of the speech 
given by Carnegie Mellon Trustee and IBM 
official, Edward Lucente at the inauguration 
of the Andrew Network.
...Our relationship with Carnegie Mellon 
is an outstanding example of collaboration 
between business and the academic 
community.
Since 1980, IBM has entered into more 
than 1,800 research agreements with nearly 
350 universities around the world.
And we've invested nearly $225 million in
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986 - The Tartan - Page 7
The Tartan implements new typesetting technology
By USA D. MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
From light tables, x-acto blades and long 
nights to state of the art software, 
Macintoshes and more sleep: such has been 
the transformation of The Tartan.
At the beginning of the semester, the 
student-run newspaper swapped its two-year- 
old Compugraphic MCS 8400 typesetting 
system for a new system which permits the 
layout and printing of entire pages. The 
ability to see and design whole pages at once 
is an enormous improvement over the old 
system of printing out single articles and 
headlines and cutting and pasting them onto 
the page.
The new system, which uses the 
Pagemaker pagination program from Aldus 
and six Macintosh Plus terminals connected 
on a MacServe network, shortens the 
production time of each issue considerably. 
Since all of The Tartan staff members, from 
editors to the production and typesetting 
staffs are full time Carnegie Mellon 
students, any time-saving development is an
Lucente speaks
continued from page 6these institutions of higher learning.
We have one basic crierion for deciding 
where to invest in higher education.
We support colleges and universities where 
the long-term interests of IBM, the needs of 
education and the national interest coincide.
Our joint development with Carnegie 
Mellon is an excellent example of that 
fusion of common goals.
In Carnegie Mellon, IBM has a partner that 
is one of the top-ranked computer science 
schools in the country, a university that is 
interested in practical systems solutions as 
well as computer theory. Joining forces with 
a school of this caliber has given us the 
chance to explore development and 
marketing opportunities in advanced personal 
computer workstations local area networks 
and leading-edge software....
In 1981, this project was only a gleam in 
Dick Cyert's eye.
But the gleam contained a grand vision, the 
vision of a bold new concept in computing 
and communications, and the vision of 
working with like-minded educational 
institutions to establish standards for 
educational software....
Through this network, today, students 
faculty and administration at Carnegie 
Mellon can share information with hundreds 
of other people on campus.
Not only are the users diverse, the 
components of the system also are diverse....
The system also includes tools to give 
users fas^ access to the capabilities of the 
"Andrew" software.
For example, "windows" let people see 
more than one type of information at a time 
on the screen. And a mouse lets i^ers give 
commands simply by pointing.
Using the system, a student can interrupt a 
session of chemistry homework to find out 
what time the basketball game starts.
A programmer who is writing a set of 
commands can see - in a window on the 
screen - what the user of the finished 
program will see as a result of the sommand.
A student preparing a history paper could 
have notes in one window, a library research 
document in another, and pop up a third U3 
look up the professor's office phone number
- just to make sure the paper really is due tomorrow....
This is a project that neither IBM nor 
Carnegie Mellon could have done alone.
And, frankly, I think there are few other 
business-university partnerships that could 
have accomplished what we have ...
This project is an outstanding example of 
the benefits of industry and academia 
working together and an accomplishment of 
which we can all be proud.
important one. The staff also has access to a 
Linotronic 300 Typesetter, owned by the Art
& Technology Center. The typesetter is the 
most sophisticated of its kind.
In addition, using the network, eliminates 
many of the previous problems with 
coordination between editors and typesetters. 
Headline writing, corrections and even major 
layout changes can all be handled directly and 
immediately by the section editors. The 
Compugraphic typesetter, because only two 
terminals were available for use at one time, 
required that a request for corrections or 
headlines go through many different stages 
before finally being spit out of the 
typesetter. It was a rare occasion indeed when 
a headline came out unscathed.
Because lay-out is less time-consuming and 
the editors are much closer to their work, the 
new Apple system also affords Tartan editors 
more creativity in their layout Options like 
changing column widths, changing point 
size or leading, or wrapping text around 
photos or illustrations are now readily 
available to editors and ad designers. 
Previously such unconventional layouts 
demanded more time that a student is willing 
to put in for one eye-catching effect
Furthermore, the two LaserWriters in the 
office allow for full tabloid-size proofs of 
each page before printing on the Linotronic, 
taking the suspense and guess work out of 
page design. Another advantage to this 
system is that LaserWriter output can be 
used instead of Linotronic output for late- 
breaking news or major mistakes that may 
be discovered after the pages come back from 
the Linotronic.
Because most students at Carnegie Mellon 
are familiar with Macintosh or IBM PC 
word-processing, most writers now hand in 
articles on disk, saving even more time. A 
connection between the IBM PC and the 
Apple network enables MS-DOS-formatted 
text files on an IBM disk to be translated 
using the Kermit program.
The majority of ads that have art work or 
photographs in them are submitted camera- 
ready and simply waxed and pasted down on 
the Linotronic output It would be possible 
to digitize these images and have them 
¡Minted out with the section files, but this 
would slow down the Linotronic printing 
process considerably. Because of the high 
resolution of the Linotronic output printing 
images is an extremely time-consuming
process.
Admittedly, the changeover has not been 
completely problem-free. Rather than 
phasing out the Compugraphic section by 
section as was recommended by 
administrative advisors, The Tartan staff 
decided to go cold turkey. Entertainment 
Editor, Bruce Kasrel worked rather 
extensively with Pagemaker over the 
summer and became the resident expert on 
the system. The entire staff had only been 
back from summer vacation for one week, 
when the first issue date came up. It was a 
very inexperienced staff that produced the 
first issue with the new system. But 
inexperience considered, the staff performed 
competently and enthusiastically. Aside from 
the news section crashing at 2 AM, because 
of incompatibility between the system and 
finder folders which rendered the file 
inaccessible, the mishaps were few and 
minor. The first news section was decidedly 
anemic, but what happens the first week of 
school anyway?
Future improvements planned for The 
Tartan include plans to integrate large screen 
Macintoshes instead of the normal 
MacPlus terminals currenlty in use.
DOMINO’S PIZZA INTRODUCES THE *.99 «IX PACK
tA
6
Receive a Six Pack of Coke for$.99 With Any 2 Item or More Pizza.
LIMIT 1 SIX PACK PER 2-ITEM OR MORE PIZZA. 
OFFER EXPIRES NOV. 30, 1986 
Not Valid With Any Other Offer 
No Coupon Necessary
681-1707
315 N. Craig Street
521-2970
623 Greenfield AvenueAr
DOMINO'SPIZZADEUVERS*FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—November 18,1986

---------------------------------------------------

November 18,1986 The
Tartan—Page ^

---------------------------------------------------

ZPhoto9Vof
¿Available
v>ai uiju uuaK pv---Ta
The university theoretically exists for the 
stuients. As a Student Senator, I will work 
to ensure that the University continues to 
consider the priority of the students in its 
actions. I will do this by lobbying the 
administration to repect the rights of 
students and by seeking greater student input 
on important decisions. As a junior in 
Chemical Engineering, I have established a 
good rapport with fellow students and 
faculty. I feel qualified to represent CIT on 
behalf of their best interests.
Manny Theiner—CIT
Have you ever wanted to voice your 
opinion but were afraid you'd be ignored? 
Then count on Manny Theiner. I'm 
concerned about student apathy, 
administrative callousness, lack of 
worthwhile entertainment, and any other 
gripes you might have.
CIT students know there's strength in 
numbers. Show your strength and vote for 
Manny Theiner for Student Senate.
St uu
S S
os a
Q\ On
OO Os
c/3 <D <DEÜÆ
.2 s ets £ £
Ü o oazz
I'
hJ +-> Ö 
x 
• • 
QJ 
U
cd£
Erica
Hi! 
currently a 
for a seat on 
attending Senate 
on what is 
vote for me in 
Senate elections.
David Lewis—CIT
Serious about Senate.
I mean that. I take Senate seriously and I’m 
committing the time it requires. I'm a Senior 
EE/EPP and am presently serving on Senate; 
I'm a member of the Public 
Relations/Human Resources Committee, and 
I’m also saving on the newly formed Rules, 
Referenda, and Amendments Committee. I’m 
serious.
John Scott Maxwell—CIT
Presently I am filling on of Student Senate 
seats that was open at the beginning of the 
year. Over the past six weeks I have had the 
chance to become an active part of Senate. 
While on Senate I worked on the Funding 
Recognition Committee; ensuring that the 
Student Activities Fees are distributed justly. 
I have enjoyed being a Senator, and ask that 
the students of CIT would elect me, so I 
may continue to work for you.
Raju Bendre-AlCS
The CMU students have one thing to 
complain about: the polarization of the 
campus community. Do you find yourself: 
being classified (CFA, MCS, CIT, 
H&SS...); in a cycle of perpetual 
monotony; cliquish with barriers that even 
Superman cannot overstep? Reallocation of 
CMU resources to make a coherently 
harmonious community is possible.
Dana Hausman-MCS
I enjoy being on Senate because I believe 
that students should have a voice in campus 
issues and can work together to make CMU 
a better place to be. In particular, I wish to 
continue my work on the PR committee, 
keeping students informed of Senate 
activities. Let's strengthen the link!
Shep Bosiin—H&SS 
As a Student Senator, I would focus on 
those issues which were of prime concern to 
you when I last seved on Senate. Namely, 
parking problems, high book costs, and the 
insensitivity of the administration to student 
wants. These have yet to be adequately 
addressed by current Senators and 
administrators.
Fred Goff—H&SS 
An extremely important duty of Student 
Senate is allocation of Student Activities 
fees. Recently, these fees have gone to very 
secular groups. I intend to support activities 
all could benefit from; and to sponsor 
campus wide events designed to put more 
enjoyment into the high pressured lives our 
school imposes.
Allen
One y<*Accomplishments:
at bookstore for ni 
student stores; c 
Committee to inC 
clarify Senate Con 
campus telepM 
buildings; divest* 
South Africa; sttK 
other University d*

---------------------------------------------------

Candidates
U^hoto9Voi
¿Available
Piloto9Vof
¿Available
VOTE 
to strengthen 
The Link
I Audrey Liu-CFA
I'd like to become more aware of the 
5 problems which affect students and work 
with them to try and find the best solution. I 
! believe students should be informed of the 
decisions being made. I am willing to work 
hard for improvement and shall leave no 
stone unturned.. .1 hope.
Allan West—CFA 
I am looking forward to the possibility of 
rejoining your CFA Senators for another 
semester. We are a unified, motivated body. 
Help me and Audrey, along with Nadine 
Glen Norman, and Renata, with your input. 
We have taken up two issues: CFA and the 
five-year plan, and the University Funding 
equivalency.
Celeste Clark—IM
Bystander. That implies not doing 
anything, especially when something is 
happening. And things are happening at 
Carnegie Mellon—important things that 
affect all students. I want to represent the 
Industrial Management students by not 
being a bystander, by becoming involved, 
and by representing you.
Edward A. Grey—IM
As a Student Senator, I will direct 
legislation that will detour future funding of 
controversial organizations without the 
consent of the campus majority. I will also 
institute Happy Hours for H&SS students 
and their professors. Thus students may get 
to know their professors on a more informal 
basis.
inate experience. 
^ ed student discount 
1contraceptives in 
V ter Senate Rules 
j student rights and 
n- Goals: more on- 
mside academic 
rom companies in 
into tenure and
Jeanne Reinhard—H&SS
Likes: the beach, roses, JFK, my 
roommate Tiff, my dog Mac, CM, Elvis, 
Beatles, Bruce, Talking Heads, tans, warm 
hugs, laughing, good grades, brother Chuck, 
Marco and Bruce, Donner, big bucks, fast 
cars, slow men.
Dislikes: cranberry sauce.
Ambition: seat on Senate Finance 
Committee.
Elizabeth Sherlock—H&SS 
Hi! I'm Liz Sherlock. I'm sorry. I don't 
have any grand schemes, plans, promises and 
proposals. I just want to represent you 
(especially you freshman who have a fresh 
outlook on old ideas). I'm running for 
Student Senate. I'm open to any suggestions 
and I invite anyone to look me up and tell 
me his/her ideas. It's your responsibility and 
I want to help. So, I won't bore you with 
my gripes and opinions. Tell me yours! 
Don't forget me the 18th and 19th!
fri:a Levy and Fm 
Itjarge” but running 
* Senate. I've been 
H to have an imput 
I on campus. Please 
fpning MCS Student 
tyou.
If you want a representative who will 
tacitly consent to every administration 
whim, vote for someone else.
If you feel that this University often loses 
sight of its primary purpose as an instituion 
of higher learning; if you feel that your 
professors are rewarded for their ability of 
generate research dollars rather than their 
ability to teach; if you feel that 
undergraduates are considered just another 
profit center for C-M Inc., then vote for 
Stuart Rapoport.
Kalpesh Shastri— MCS
CMU is more of a business than a 
University. I will work to change this. 
CMU has not divested because the Board of 
Trustees and the Administration care more 
about money than a moral position. A vote 
for me is a vote for a University geared to 
the individual.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
The New All-nighter
The infamous all-nighter. College students may find 
themselves staying up through the wee hours for any 
number of reasons which are not necessarily 
academic. True, they may stay up to finish a paper or 
study for an exam, but it may also be to buy concert 
tickets, work on a carnival booth, or lately, to get a 
job interview.
As commencement draws near for seniors, the pres­
sure in on to find a job. Carnegie Mellon students 
(well-trained in the high-pressure, competitive spirit) 
rise to the occasion. The competition is particularly 
stiff among Industrial Management and Information 
Systems majors, who are currently putting in the all- 
nighters in Warner Hall for a chance at an interview. 
The situation is becoming increasingly ridiculous as 
students are holding their all-night vigils not just for 
interviews with prestigious firms, but even for compa­
nies like Quaker Oats. Something has got to be done.
A few years ago when the competition was 
particularly stiff among chemical engineering majors, 
a bid system was set up fo alleviate the problem of 
getting interviews. With this system, each senior in 
the major is given 1000 points per semester. Each 
Tuesday bids are taken for upcoming interviews. The 
bids are then counted and interview slots are granted 
to the highest bidders.
According to the Office for Career Services and 
Placement, no bid system will be set up this year for 
IM and IS majors. This policy deserves 
reconsideration. Carnegie Mellon students have 
enough demands on their time without having to camp 
out all night just to get a job interview.
Arms to Iran?!
No one ever said that power politics is a clean game. 
Keeping that in mind may deaden some of the shock 
of the most recent revelation that the U.S. has been 
shipping arms to Iran in almost complete secrecy.
The exposure of these dealings has touched off a 
barrage of outrage, speculation and Washington 
bureaucrats frantically pointing at one another, 
whining, "He started it! I didn't know anything about 
it!" The arms shipments were originally thought to be 
in exchange for Iranian influence in the release of 
American hostages being held in Lebanon. It may be 
years before anyone finds out what the U.S. was 
really up to be breaking the self-imposed moratorium 
on exporting arms to Iran, but in the meantime the 
situation offers plenty of food for interesting 
conjecture. For instance, doesn't it seem really 
doubtful that Reagan would take such a huge foreign 
policy risk just to free half-a-dozen hostages that most 
American citizens probably don't even know or care 
about? If the American public were in an uproar the 
way it was when 53 hostages were taken hostage in 
the American Embassy in Teheran in 1979, then it 
might be a different story. As things currently stand, 
Reagan probably wouldn't get his hands dirty over 
such a low-key issue. That assumption leads to the 
conclusion that there was an ulterior motive behind the 
deals. Reagan cites a desire to improve relations with 
Iran and squelch some of the anti-Americanism 
running rampant in the powerful middle-eastern 
nation. Another probable motive for the arms 
shipments is to alter the balance in the six-year-old 
Iran-Iraq war. America has traditionally been neutral 
in the struggle and seemed to enjoy the quagmire that 
both strongly anti-American countries are engaged in. 
But maybe the balance has shifted or the U.S. has 
decided to cash in its neutrality and lubricate the 
change with some defensive weaponry.
Regardless of what the administration's motives 
were, they better have been good ones. It is hard to 
imagine any reason that would justify Reagan's about- 
face on his own arms trading policy and the risk of 
appearing hopelessly hypocritical in the worid's eyes.
cm&-
zwices
-r\Vsp
Letters.si 115. loom
m
iSJBW
Jud
ÏT “illStudent Defends SAA Shanty
Editor:
W.E.S. Harman in his efforts to 
criticize the SAA shanty 
concentrated on a few peripheral 
issues and missed the point of the 
shanty's presence.
He begins by criticizing SAA for 
its lack of originality. True, 
shanties have been built all over 
the country, and what’s wrong with 
that? Why does Harman insist that 
SAA reinvent the wheel in order to 
have credibility? This is the first 
shanty ever at CMU, and I consider 
it a refreshing change of pace in 
comparison to more traditional 
forms of protest. I am not 
bothered that Pitt and other 
universities protest in the same 
manner. I think that is a positive 
thing, a united stand against 
Apartheid, just as Hands Across 
America was a united stand against 
hunger. According to Harman's 
logic, was that just millions of 
Americans across the country 
"showing a lack of originality" by 
all doing the same thing?
He then goes on to criticize the 
students staying in the shanty 
during freezing weather for using 
down sleeping bags and eating at 
the Tartan Grill because neither of 
these are available to South 
African blacks. He does stop short 
of criticizing them for living 
however.
Anybody can realize it is quite 
impossible to deptict the 
conditions with 100% accuracy. 
The point of the shanty is not for 
SAA to make an example of their 
self-martyrdom, but to remind 
students and faculty of the racial 
conditions in South Africa. The 
students staying in the shanty are
there to discuss Apartheid with any 
visitors, and to protect it from 
vandalism, which has been a 
problem at other shanties. Viewed 
in this context, the shanty has 
been a success.
Harman himself inadvertantly 
shows the shanty’s success by the 
nature of his comments. I quote 
"The South African housing 
situation is deplorable. The people
SAA Chairman Responds
Editor:
I am writing in response to four 
pieces in the November 11 issue of 
The Tartan. The column by Jack 
Poller, two letters to the editor, 
and the comic strip "On Our Side," 
all dealing with the shanty, require 
a reply in order to clarify the 
purposes of the shanty and the 
goals of Students Against Apatheid 
(SAA).
The shanty was not built to be an 
exact replica of the living 
conditions in South Africa. As 
stated on a sign on the shanty, the 
shanty is a symbol of those 
conditions. A symbol, as defined 
by Webster, is "something which 
represents another thing."
One example of a symbol is a 
cross worn by Christians. The 
cross represents the cross which 
Jesus died on. It would be 
ridiculous for Christians to carry 
around a ten-foot wooden cross; 
instead, they wear a small crosses. 
In a similar manner, it would be 
stupid for those of us at the shanty 
to intentionally subjuct ourselves 
to the terrible living conditions 
which the shanty represents.
W.E.S. Harman criticized SAA
have little or no food, no jobs, and 
poor shelter." All that SAA is 
trying to do is to raise awareness 
of these points and stimulate 
discussion in an apathetic campus. 
For that, they should be 
commended, not criticized.
Oren Rosenthal 
Sophomore
ECE
for not being original in our form 
of protest. This is like suggesting 
that leafletting, rallies, and civil 
disobedience are not valid forms of 
protest because they have been 
used elsewhere. The fact is that the 
shanties are excellent forms of 
protest. If they were not, SAA 
would use others.
The shanty has been shown to be 
very effective. The purpose of the 
shanty is to encourage discussion 
of apartheid and divestment. In the 
time that the shanty has existed, 
many people have approached us to 
ask questions and engage us in 
discussion. We have had speakers 
at the shanty, including exiled 
South African Poet Dennis Brutus; 
peace activist Molly Rush; and 
Count Percy Pieterson, a 
representative of the Pan-African 
Congress of Azania, a group 
fighting for freedom in South 
Africa. The fact that, in the Nov. 
11 issue, The Tartan published 
four pieces dealing with the shanty 
and divestment shows that our 
purpose has been partially fulfilled.
Jeff Diehl's comic strip, "On Our 
Side," criticized SAA for not being 
cmUmmi m mm 13

---------------------------------------------------

November 18,1986 - The Tartan - Page 13
T otters Conti
Rosenberg Responds to Editorial; Defends Book
To the Editor:I want to thank you for your editorial, 
-Carnegie Mellon: Progress or Purgatory," 
which struck me as being intellectually 
written, thorough, and, except for 
characterizing both myself and M. Servan- 
Schreiber as "illogical and tedious," fair.
I am of course sorry that you found us
lacking in logic or compelling interest, and, 
speaking in defense of Servan-Schreiber 
(who needs no defense from me, I'm afraid), I 
would say that the most striking feature of 
his book was its rigid logic, which, once 
you accept its premises, forecloses any 
further discussion or debate. As for my own 
book, I am willing to let readers make their
SAA Action Commended
Editor:True, the Students Against Apartheid 
members do live in relative luxury as 
compared to many blacks in South Africa, 
but at least these students are DOING 
SOMETHING! I do not understand how they 
can be criticized for simply utilizing the 
resources of the wealthy society of which 
they are fortunate to be a member.
Their purpose is not to replicate the life of 
a Black South African, but to increase 
awareness about a tragic situation. To that 
end, I feel they have accomplished superbly.
As Dennis Brutus, an exiled South African, 
stated when he spoke at the shanty on 
October 31, the blacks in South Africa do
know of the efforts of groups like SAA 
across the country, and they are deeply 
grateful. If the day to day existance of these 
people is eased even a bit by knowing that 
others around the world are supporting them 
by action, then the students' effort is 
worthwhile regardless of "boom boxes" or 
"down sleeping bags."
The true impact of their vigil is yet to be 
seen. Nonetheless, these students should be 
applauded for taking action, not criticized for 
simply using the resources available to 
them.
Elisa Salasin 
Junior 
Psychology
Annual Registration Woes
Editor:
Are computers supposed to improve the 
quality of life for us students?
While registering for classes today, I sat in 
a huge line for one class while my friend sat 
in a huge line for another class. My line was 
slighly longer than hers, but I waited in it 
for only 12 minutes, while my friend wated 
over an hour. The difference in our two 
situations was that I waited in the 
ENGLISH department line and she waited in 
in the COMPUTER SCIENCE department.
Flaunting their PC XTs the Computer 
Science department feels the need to do their 
data entry tasks for registration on the
students' time, while the English department 
does their data entry on their own time and 
has students fill out cards specifying the 
information necessary for the eventual data 
entry.
I congratulate the English department on 
their forward thinking and castigate the computer science department for their lack 
thereof. Until we have bar codes on our R3D 
forms and every department has bar code 
reader, data entry for registration should not 
be done on the students' time.
Geoffrey Citron 
Mechanical Engineering '88
Student Government President 
Addresses Board of Trustees
By JIM DENBURGOn November 10 I gave a speech to the
Board of Trustees of our university. The 
topic I chose was how to improve the 
quality of education at Carnegie Mellon. My
Column
recommendation was as follows: more one 
on one interaction between students and 
faculty. However, I pointed out that for this 
to happen there needs to be a policy set 
forthby the administration, in the way of 
incentives. Below is an excerpt from my 
speech:
Academically, Carnegie Mellon is very 
difficult. Although students complain about 
the work, we realize that in the end it will 
all be worth it. The university feels, 
however, that because we work so hard we 
are getting a great education; they are 
relating quantity of work to quality. This 
relation is wrong. Quality is independent of 
the amount of work done. Therefore, the 
issue I want to talk to you about today is the 
quality of undergraduate education.
In many classes students feel like they are a 
number. They go to class, take notes, take 
the exam and hopefully pass the class. 
During the entire semester they may never 
speak, one on one, with the professor. An 
academic experience, such as this, can 
greatly lim*t a student's educational 
Potential.
However, a student can learn twice as much 
in the same class, with a professor who 
takes an individual interest in his students. 
This type of professor will stimulate the 
student to learn and study more and to 
creatively think about the subject. It follows 
that, the professor has a big influence on 
how much the student gets out of the class.
There are two types of professors that 
provide a quality education to the students. I 
categorize these as "good" and "great." A 
good professor is one who takes an 
individual interest in each student by 
encouraging one on one meetings. A great 
professor is one who spends time with 
students inside as well as outside the 
academic environment; they go to school 
events, they invite students to their house 
for dinner and they act as advisors to student 
organizations. This type of professor can 
ahve a tremendous impact on a student's life.
I have spoken with a few professors on 
this subject. They said they would like to 
interact more with the students but they have 
very little free time and there are no 
incentives for them to do so - all the 
incentives are in research. Therefore, it is 
very important that the university 
emphisizes what I describe as "good" and 
"great" professors, in order for future 
students to obtain a better education.
Jim Denburg is a senior majoring in 
Industrial Management. He is the Presideng 
of Student Government.
own decision.
I was also disappointed that you found it 
"self-pitying," since this emotion was really 
far from my soul. If I felt anything toward 
myself, it was sort of self-disgust at having 
failed to understand for so many years just 
how the so-called "real world" works. And I 
would have hoped that the inclusion of a 
number of cases other than my own would 
have suggested, not an exercise in personal 
camplaint, but the revelation of a pattern.
Ultimately, I would think students would 
find the simultaneous appearance of two
such divergant books — one a virtual 
exercise in hagiography proclaiming the 
New Jerusalem, one a bitter expose of the 
political infighting on a campus — at least 
interesting and at best thought-provoking. I 
have not dined with as many heads of state 
as M. Servan-Schreiber, but I have 
experienced this campus in ways which he 
obviously has not, and I find the contrast 
between Heaven and Hell fascinating. I hope 
students who read both books will, also.
James L. Rosenberg 
Professor, Drama Dept
SAA Explains Protest Motives
continued from page 12
active in movements to end problems the 
United States, specifically the treatment of 
American Indians. I agree that this is a 
problem; however, the fact that we are not 
actively trying to improve the government's 
treatment of the Indians is not a valid 
criticism of the anti-apartheid movement. 
There are many problems in this world. 
Millions of people are malnourished, 
American youth are receiving inadequate 
education, a large portion of the world's 
people live under repressive dictatorships, 
nuclear arms are at a disgusting level, our 
legal system has decided that it can and will 
sentence people to die, almost 100 million 
animals will be killed in America's 
laboratories this year, and our air and water 
are being polluted to unhealthy levels. Most 
SAA members are active in at least one of 
the movements to end these problems; 
however, there are too many problems for a 
person to be active in all the movements at 
once. Since Mr. Diehl feels so strongly 
about "apartheid in the U.S." I hope that he 
is active in the movement to eradicate this 
problem, and I hope that he is successful.
Jack Poller incorrectly stated that "SAA 
wishes CMU to force companies to follow 
the Sullivan Principles." SAA actually 
wants all American companies to cease all 
operations in South Africa. The Sullivan 
Principles are much too weak to have any 
real effect on apartheid. In fact, Reverand 
Sullivan has stated that his principles do not
work and that if apartheid is still in existence 
in May 1987, all American companies 
should immediately cease all operations in 
South Africa.
Poller also states that, in order to help 
eradicate apartheid, SAA should be 
proposing increased investment in 
companies operating in South Africa, and 
not be supporting divestment. He claims 
that this will increase the Universities 
influence over the companies. Actually, the 
divestment movement, here and at other 
universities, has had a large effect on 
companies. Both IBM and General Motors 
explicitly stated that their decisions to "pull 
out" of South Africa were partially 
influenced by pressure in the United States 
to do so. Also, in a letter to President 
Reagan, many university presidents wrote in 
favor of economic sanctions against South 
Africa. This probably was a result of 
divestment movements at those universities, 
and may have had an effect on the recent 
passage of those sanctions by Congress.
I hope that this letter has cleared up the 
inaccuracies and misconceptions held by 
W.E.S. Harman, David Yu, Jack Poller, and 
Jeff Diehl, and I encourage these four, and 
anyone who would like to discuss 
divestment and apartheid, to drop by the 
shanty for a while — most of us don't bite.
Greg Staresink 
Chairman,
Students Against Apartheid
The Tartain
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew RobitshekManaging EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAa Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan Assistant
Vyay ReddyJack L. PollerNeil Greenhlum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing tditor
Che Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Mellon University It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning fo the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Column» are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editorial board or staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community. 
A letter intended for publication must be
signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or refect any letter or column 
Copyright 1986 by The Tartan The edtoritf 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office. Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon Urw 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee A* rights 
reserved UbraryofCongressISSN#:0090-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

The
photbyhE rhEi«*$25.00
Complete with written guarantee
The
PRECISION CUToow $13.00
Comoie«** with shampoo 
and blow style.
IUST-A-CUT
.* $8.00
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED* 
Great Styles Slartat,^^^»
J4^J^_CQUPQN_
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo A styling 
Qftor Expires: ^ ^ ^ ^ £•••»N«-»',#e6 nwimuMMVOMOM HAMCUTTW
PR6CISCIN HAfVUTTCRS
237 Atwood Street 
Across tbs itrsst jron Oakland Post Office
687-3500
r- I I I I I I I I I
COUPON
Our Gang 
Pizza
$1.00 OFF 
Large Pizza
622-7000
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland 
Sun - Thurs 11am-1am 
Fri-Sat 11am-2am
———-i r™ — — 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 
11 11
11
U —— —SBBMSfiffi — — — -f L
COUPON
Our Gang 
Pizza
50c OFF* *
Small Pizza
622-7000
Expires n/30/^
Sponaard by CounaeSng and Studwtf Development Cantar DMeion of Student Aftaira
We ware looking for on 
shades when I realized li 
was time to do some­
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right Into Qreat 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair Is 
driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
Inseparable ever since.
LytjjT ¦mmsiHAWCtrrrtRS
cc W.E sans* *
rnrrà (-^CHEESE 
rKtc®^M) SUPREMEOEEiVERYK^f^Q 12"$4 4oESE 
WITHIN ' ™ 
MINUTES? ? ? ? * HOACIE622-7000\ 12" WHOLE...$3.95
U;
________j fl£ <• I'nob j
.-Bd 0 Ji WC
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY — 7 -10 p.m.
CALCULUS PH
(Pre, 1. 11, 111)
PHYSICS PH 126B
CHEMISTRY
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS PH 125B
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS 
ECONOMICS 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
¿March 21-28. IQS!
Ponton
<03 g-pvittâ
fiiIncludes:Air FareHotelCont. Breakfast .Transfers Theatre Tickets and More...
ZReserveyoùr place 
wilh ^Peoples 'Travel
Call .Trances at 
36I-69OI
or 62I-O799

---------------------------------------------------

__ ________________________Features
University is Cold to Homeless Student
gy CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Special to the TartanErica Quiroz is a bag lady.
She doesn't have cracked, dirty hands; she 
isn't old, unemployed, and she doesn't beg 
on the street. Erica is different from other homeless Pittsburghers not only because of 
how she looks — avante guard haircut, 
army jacket, and ankle boots — but 
because of where she lives and what she 
does.Erica is a 19 year old Creative Writing 
major at Carnegie Mellon without a home. Erica, like most “bag people” is not 
homeless by choice. She doesn’t enjoy 
carrying her belongings around campus in 
plastic bags. Unlike other homeless in 
Pittsburgh who sleep outdoors on benches 
and in doorways, Erica has been spending 
her nights in acedemic buildings, 
bathrooms, and dorm lounges.
According to Erica, financial aid used to 
cover both her tuition and housing costs, 
but this year her aid dropped. Without 
enough money for campus housing, Erica 
set out to find an affordable off-campus 
apartment, but apartment prices turned out 
to be beyond Erica's expectations and 
means. Originally Erica believed her 
housing situation would be temporary, but 
nothing has changed in two months, so 
she's taken on two jobs in order to save up 
for a place to live.
At first, Erica looked at her predicament 
as a chance to grow and learn. She said, 
“As a writer, I was always facinated with 
the homeless and wondered who they all 
were and how they got there. I imagined 
spending one week with them as a bag lady 
to see how they lived, for the experience... 
Now I'm doing it, but I can't just say O.K., 
the week's up, now I q|,|pome. I don't 
have anywhere. Now I really know how it 
feels.”
Morewood Gardens, brushing her teeth in 
public bathrooms, and being tossed out of 
dorm lounges by campus security guards, 
Erica decided to call it quits. Living out of 
bags and catching random snatches of sleep 
didn’t mesh with school pressures, and 
Erica finally gave up trying to balance her 
dual lifestyle. Although not what she 
wanted to do, Erica withdrew from school 
until next semester. She said, “It was just 
getting too hard to function on a few hours 
of sleep and no place of my own to do 
work or just be alone. I had a lot on my 
mind besides schoolwork — things I used to 
take for granted like where and when I could 
next shower, change clothes, or get a decent 
sleep.”
Someone in the administration or 
faculty must have known about Erica’s 
problem — her bag lady appearance is a 
dead give away. Someone alerted security 
guards to make sure Erica didn't sleep in 
school buildings — but no one went out of 
their way to help. Erica says she never 
asked any teachers or administrators for 
help because she was afraid that someone 
would inform her mother of her situatio. 
Erica said, “All I have is my mother, 
she has nothing. I can't ask her fori 
money she doesn't have -- I wouldn, 
her to feel bad that I was doing wi 
But what about asking someoi 
administration for help 
Even if the school has 
responsibility to make sure stu 
homes, doesn't it have a moi 
to help out? Not according t 
feels the school, in general, 
concerned with individuals.
“All's anyone here cares 
and appearance, that's the 
as an example, one morning I w 
the basement of the UCC and 
woke me up and told me I cou
had no place else. So does she offer me 
help or ask me what’s wrong? Does she 
want to know why I am sleeping in a 
bathroom? No. I think she was just 
worried about how it looked. I mean, when
I started to brush my teeth, she looked like 
she was going to faint. She was appalled 
and said I wasn't allowed to do that in 
public bathrooms either. Didn't she realize
I didn't want to be there in a lousy 
bathroom?”
Dean Cox, on the other hand, said that 
she did, in fact, offer Erica help. She said, 
“I was really worried about Erica and tried 
to get in touch with her after she didn't take 
me up on my offer to come talk to m$ 
don't want students sleeping u 
in buildings, so I calle 
he couldn't locate 
to reach sor 
and who
care and worry and want to help.”
Either way, Erica is still living day to 
day without a real place to live. She has 
enough money saved for food, and is trying 
to save enough for an apartment before the 
winter sets in. She1 said, “Now that 
security has been notified and told not to let 
me sleep on campus, it's getting harder for 
me to find warm places to sleep. Even 
though my friends let me stay at their 
places sometimes, their roommates aren't 
exactly thrilled with having me — it's an 
inconvenience to squeeze three people into 
a double, especially since they're paying a 
lot of money for those rooms. I don't
s winter.
After two months of sneaking showers in there or in any other building. I
New Book Puts <IMU in the Good Lieht
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
"The technology of information is based 
on the people, and meant for the people." 
This assertion is just one of the ideas
underlying the argument in favor 
general revolution in education and indusf 
posited by Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber if 
The Knowledge Revolution.
Recently published by the Carnegie
XX Servan-Schreiber
with Barbara Crecine
TheKnowledge
, . oRevolution
xhnoloüv. W hen describing III
Carneiiie Mellon lo the
iloü\. Servun denssVsnoi
Mellon Press. ScrvaivSchrcibei
discourse 011 the role that the coiftputcr u i
and must, according lo the author, take in
Mnputer in th
neliehl also calls attention lo (.’nmeui
on because ol the I nivcrsiiv s role inMe7 
develof 
computer 
contributions 
progress in techn? 
quotes such prominent 
Nobel Prize winner Her 
Professor Raj Reddy, Vice President Pa? 
Crecine, and President Cyert.
Beginning with the argument that 
America has lost its competetive edge in 
industry through laziness and failure to 
keep up with the Japanese, Servan- 
Schreiber stresses the need to reeducate and 
retrain all segments of the American 
population to deal more effectively with 
computers. "In short, both national 
objectives of ’individual freedom' and 
'economic power' can be attained only 
through a revolution in education."
that ultimate \
Carnegie Mellon will lead the wa\ in iln
knowledge revolution. a phnisc coined In
Carneiiie Mêlions Senior Vice I’rcsuleni
Patrick ( recine. I he revolution can then b
\porlcd throughout ill
development and implementation ol ih
\ndrew network seems to hav
maior impetus lor the commsiuon ol the
Since the computerized campt
s\sicm is several vcars ahead, shouldnt tin
model be applied in everv counirv
uilhor ask
Servan-Schreiber is an eminent author and 
public figure. He is the founder of the 
French weekly L'Express, a cabinet 
Minister and member of Parliament. Books 
written by Servan-Schreiber include The 
American Challenge and The World 
Challenge, both of which have been 
published in twenty languages. From 1981 
through 1985, he was the President of the 
Paris Center for Computer Literacy. 
Currently, Chairman of the International 
Committee of Carnegie Mellon.
Ym writing this with three broken ribs. The thing is, my girlfriend is the one who 
broke them. She takes the liberty of beating me up in public places. I mean often 
like well be walking across the Cat arm in arm, and then suddenly: *POWr 
*KABQQM" "GANK", she lets me have ill I don't hit her back» with her being a 
lady and all. bat I think if! tried it 
Theo, this thing tries me.
Abusedl
r tom V» « v How do you write with a

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986—The Tartan—Page 16
Hot & Spicy Sichuan Faire in Squirrel Hill
By MICHELE MECKLEY 
Tartan Staffwriter
The Sichuan (si-shuawn) House was the 
best experience in Chinese cuisine I have 
ever had. My companion and I entered the 
beautifully decorated restaurant located in 
the heart of Squirrel Hill at 1900 Murray 
Avenue. The casual and comfortable 
atmosphere does not include jeans and a tee- 
shirt. It has a class all its own, decorated in 
burgundy and ivory colors with Chinese type 
paintings covering the walls. The floor plan 
is separated by tastefully arranged rows of 
artificial plants and sunken floors. The 
plates especially struck me they were the 
kind of plates every little girl would love to 
have in her tea set only in adult size, with a 
bold china blue pattern. The hostess and 
servers were all dressed nicely, and were 
polite and friendly. We were seated at a 
beautiful cherry wood table, which had a 
warm and homey glow. The only draw­
back: no smoking or non-smoking sections.
Dining at Sichuan House is a fulfilling 
experience in every sense of the word. A 
satisfying dinner for two, with an appetizer, 
tea, and main course starts at approximately 
twenty dollars.
The Sichuan menu is divided into main 
course selections; Poultry, Pork, Vegetables, 
Beef and Lamb, and Seafood, these are served 
with a large helping of rice, and upon request 
will be refilled free of charge. The menu 
also includes appetizers, soup, and choices of 
differently prepared recipes of noodles and 
rice. The lowest priced dinner is $5.25 
while the highest is $14.95; however, most 
dishes range form $7.95-$9.95 per dinner.
The smell of this restaurant is one that is 
distinct and expected if you know that it just 
recently opened. It's the smell of brand new 
carpeting, which is not bothersome since 
once the food arrives your attention is solely 
focused on itI ordered Won Ton soup as an appetizer. 
It was attractively garnished with slices of
chives and long thin strips of pork, with a 
red tint on the tips. I really didn't expect the 
soup to be any different from other Won Ton 
soups but it had a very rich flavor and the 
pork inside the noodles was flavored with a 
mixture of spices and wine which was a 
pleasant surprise. As a main course I had 
Shrimp with Garlic Sauce, one of their 
specialty "hot and spicy" dishes. It 
contained a generous amout of tasty, tender 
shrimp, crispy red bell peppers, water 
chestnuts, snow peas and tender black 
mushrooms all covered with a red hot sauce. 
My friend ordered an egg roll which arrived 
with a very hot mustard sauce and mild Duck 
sauce. "The hot mustard definitely clears out 
the sinuses", my companion choked out 
through a glass of ice water, but he 
obviously enjoyed it since the Duck sauce 
remained untouched. His main course was a 
Pork selection called Yushan Chai Tai, it 
too was a spicy dish that included a generous 
amout of crisp broccoli and strips of fried
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
HOW TO HELP SAVE LIVES AND 
REDUCE INJURIES AUTOMATICALLY
THREE-POINT PASSIVE SAFETY BELT SYSTEMS ARE AN EFFECTIVE COMPLEMENf TOBELHjSE LAWS.
General Motors is 
equipping 10% of its 1987 
model cars with automatic 
lap/shoulder belt systems 
for the driver and for the 
right-hand front seat passen­
ger. It is the first step in 
meeting a federal require­
ment to phase in passive 
restraints.
The automatic sys­
tems will be standard 
equipment on most 1987 
models of the Pontiac Grand 
Am and Bonneville, Buick 
Somerset, Skylark, and 
LeSabre, and Oldsmobile 
Calais and Delta 88. By 
1990 we plan to equip all 
GM cars with passive 
restraint systems.
The belts in the GM 
system will be connected to 
the car at three anchor points 
—one toward the center of 
the front seat, and two on 
the front door.
Three-point automatic 
lap/shoulder belt systems 
offer the same advantages 
as GM’s current three- 
point manual systems. 
Lap and shoulder belts allow
you to “ride down” the crash 
as the vehicle absorbs the 
impact. They also help pre­
vent you from being thrown 
from the car in an accident, 
where you are more likely 
to be killed or seriously 
injured.
Safety belts have 
proved effective in reduc­
ing injuries and fatalities.
That’s why GM supports 
belt-use laws. Automatic 
lap/shoulder belt systems 
will make it even easier for 
people to comply with these 
laws.
Opening the door pulls 
the belts forward for entry. 
Closing it brings the belts 
into their operating position. 
A single push button at the 
center anchor point releases 
the system in an emergency. 
Retractors pull the released 
belts into storage positions 
on the door.
Extra attachment 
points will be built into
cars equipped with these 
systems so you can secure 
most child restraint systems 
with an auxiliary lap belt.
General Motors is pur­
suing other programs that 
will help reduce the number 
and severity of injuries 
caused by accidents. We are
designing energy-absorbing 
interiors. We are phasing in 
rear-seat lap/shoulder belts, 
beginning with some 1987 
models—kits will be made 
available through GM deal­
ers to retrofit most older cars 
with these systems. And we 
will be equipping some 1988 
model cars with driver-side 
air bags to supplement safety 
belts.
General Motors has 
been a leader in automotive 
safety because we believe 
that building safer cars is 
good for you. And good for 
us.
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks 
and the company that builds 
them.
Chevrolet • Pontiac 
Oldsmobile • Buick 
Cadillac • GMC Truck
pork covered in the same red sauce as mine.
Some other spicy dishes that were also 
very good are: Hot and Sour Soup, Sliced 
Spicy Lamb, and an especially delicious 
dinner, the General TSO Chicken. These 
were tried on a previous trip at the Greentree 
location. The only mild dish I tried was the 
Shrimp with Lobster Sauce which wasn't as 
good as the other dishes, but palatable.
One nice feature of the Sichuan is the food 
is served "family style", which means the 
main dishes are placed in the center of the 
table and everyone tries the different orders. 
It is recommended that there be a different 
order according to the number of people in 
the party. Also, all spicy dishes are clearly 
marked on the menu so that those with a 
more reserved taste aren't shocked into 
drinking more water than eating food.
The evening closed with the traditional 
fortune cookies and the delicious feeling of 
having an amply satisfied appetite. We are 
going back real soon. Yum.
DEMO STUDIO
Qucity Recording You Can Afford
JACK P\MN
1052 Franklin Drive 
Bettiet Park, pa 15102 
(412J6354398
-TVol lumuel81, Iuls 0e0ulm ol luCeaeIron, I1u g0illMUuuIg enmvul rmttt
The Literary Cdt Bookstore 
used books for the finicky reader
1505 Asbury Place _ 
Sq. Hill 15217
422-0280 W
I*
Cuts $14416
pbTOT"
I
must prêtent
Mon.-Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5 
Sun. 1-2-5 
""coutonI
I
Save 25%
I TO
on
Nexxus • Sebastian * Redken • Paul Mitchell
IL
Lewis' Hair Salon
813 S. Aiken 
Shadyside 682-4063
¦ mm mm mmLewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063

---------------------------------------------------

Fastest Growing Software Company in the United States 
Seeks Top Gun Candidates
If you are in the top 10% of your graduating class and have academic 
credentials to brag about (great G.P.A., high school valedictorian, 
National Merit recognition, et cetera), then you should talk to Oracle 
about joining the best. Oracle is the fastest growing software 
company in the United States and the creators of ORACLE, the 
number one Relational DBMS that has been chosen over IBM and 
DEC by users polled in the Software News Users Survey.
Last year I hired over 50 of the top graduates from the finest 
schools. This year I am looking for even more graduates for every 
area of Oracle, including: Development, Sales, Support, Marketing, 
Consulting, Finance, and International.
If you want to discuss opportunities at Oracle, sign up for an 
interview or call me directly ( be sure to leave a message if I am 
unavailable).
Larry Lynn
Director of Recruiting 
Oracle Corporation 
(415) 598-8183
A career at Oracle Corporation will give you: 
Exceptional Compensation
We pay exceptional salaries for exceptional employees. We offer complete medical/ 
dental/life coverage, and flexible hours, and every employee, through our stock option 
program, has equity in the company.
Fascinating and Challenging Work
We need to staff development, marketing and support positions to work on projects in 
distributed database, interactive graphics, and networking of heterogeneous computers, 
to name a few.
Exposure to the latest and most advanced technology
We already offer products on Suns, Apollos, MicroVaxes, and almost every IBM machine 
including personal computers and the RT PC. Today we are developing products using 
technology that is not yet in the marketplace.
» A superior work environment
Oracle is headquartered in a new building in the rolling hills overlooking the beautiful 
San Francisco Bay. Additionally, we have offices in most major cities in North America, 
and subsidiaries in all major markets worldwide.
* A superb group of peers
Company-wide, we hire only the best and the brightest from the finest of schools. When 
you work at Oracle, everyone you work with is a Top Gun Graduate.
* A sign-on bonus
If you meet the Oracle standard of excellence, you may be eligible to receive a one-time 
bonus equal to 10% of your annual starting salary.
dlii;’,« ••
mm
- :

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—November 18,1986You Asked For It -The IM Report
IM Chess
Stuart Fox is commissioner — x4259 
Please continue to turn in the winning 
scores to Stuart or the IM Office.
Bowling
Commissioner— Vince Carrozza — x5494 
Please pay all bowling fees to Dale at the 
Strand Lanes in Oakland.
Darts
Commissioner — Paul Pecora —621-9125 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office. Please report your winning 
scores to the IM Office.
Racauetbail
Commissioner Rob Schlackman— x5518 
Finals must be played before Nov. 21st
Soccer
Commissioners:
Major League — Fred Deleon x5432 
Intermediate — Stephanie Janczak x4815 
Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Women — Stephanie Janczak x4815 
Last call for Women Only soccer teams.
Backgammon
Commissioner — Shuman Lee — x3680 
Final entry date was Thursday, Nov. 13,
4:30 p.m. Schedules can be picked up in 
the IM Office.
IM Basketball
The IM Basketball Tournament will start 
in January 1987. Entries due Thursday, 
January 8, 1987. Start to line up your team 
NOW! Last year we had 106 teams, so get 
your team in early this year.
Next IM Board Meeting
Thursday, November 20th at 12:30 p.m. in 
the Gym Conference Room.
Women's Volleyball Championship
Talking Heads 15 15 
Mech E. Jrs. 6 12
The Talking heads captured the Women's 
Championship by defeating the Mech E. Jrs. 
Captains Sharon Nutter and Cheryl Kennedy 
led the undefeated Talking Heads.
Minors Championship
Slammers 15 10 16 
KDR-B 7 15 14
In an exciting three set match, the 
Slammers came from behind to win the third 
game and the Minors Championship 16-14. 
Beth Cavanaugh led the Slammers as she 
was named Championship Most Valuable 
Plaer.
Dr. Debra Abell, M.D.
Dermatologist
Easily accessible by bus from CMU.
The Investment Building 
239 4th Avenue, Suite 217 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
281-4770
Master Card, Visa accepted. 
Call for appointment.
ANNOUNCEMENT 
GUEST SPEAKER
^ wU +1* vL* vL*^ ^ ^
Dr. Richard Abel, Professor of Law, 
University of California/Los Angeles
"The Future of the American Legal Profession”
Friday, November 21, 1986 
3:30pm - 4:30pm 
Adamson Wing
Refreshments to follow
Co-sponsored by the H&SS Committee on the Professions 
and tne Pre-Law Club.
IM Basketball
Attention all IM Basketball Teams: In an 
effort to get more games for each team, the 
IM Department is going to start it's 
basketball schedule the first week back to 
school in January. If you want to make sure 
that your team participates as soon as we 
come back, all you have to do is sign up 
your team as soon as possible in the IM 
Office. Those teams that sign up early will 
assure themselves of playing early. Check 
the IM report in the next Tartan for further 
details about signing up early, or call Mike 
in the IM Department x2214 between 4:00- 
5:30. Final entry date Thursday, January 8th.
intermediate Championship
Dudes 16 14 15 
ECE 14 16 13 
In a three set thriller the Dudes captured 
their second championship of the volleyball 
season as they outlasted ECE 16-14, 14-16, 
15-13. Nora Liu and Stu Vemin led a total 
team effort for the Dudes. Nora Liu was 
voted Championship Most Valuable Player 
for the undefeated champions.
Majors Championship
GSIA 15 15
The Club 12 13 
The consistent play of the Championship 
Most Valuable Player Jim Grefenstette led 
GSIA to a championship sweep. GSIA, 
trailing most of the first game, came back to 
take the first set and won the Championship. 
GSIA, coached by Marco Deminoz, 
completed the season with a 9-1 record.
Majors All Stars - 1st Team
Jim Grefenstette — GSIA 
Ernie Hua — The Club 
Yan-Dong Yan — Cuspea 
Alan Cowen — Dave's Team 
Steve Lee — KSA
Rick Ciaccio — GSIA 
2nd Team
Dave Pessoa — The Club
Paul Chang — KSA
Dirk Kalp — Computer Science
Barcley McCaul — GSIA
John You — KSA
Thanathip (Golf) Vidhayasirinun
ClubThe
Three___Eerson____Volleyball ^Intramural Record
Under the direction of Commissioner 
Stuart Fox (ext. 4259) a new record was set 
in Three Person Volleyball Intramural 
Tournament this year.
A new high of 47 teams will participate in 
the 1986 IM Tournament. This new record 
surpasses the old record of 42 set in 1985.
The schedules are out and can be picked up 
in the IM Office. Matches will begin on 
Monday, Nov. 17. Due to the large number 
of teams and limited gym time, THERE 
WILL BE NO SCHEDULE CHANGES.
SAE Wins All School Water Pnfa 
Championship
SAE won, not only the Major League 
Intramural Water Polo Championship with a 
fine record of 6 wins and only 1 loss, but 
they defeated the Mutant Eels for the 1986 
Water Polo Title.
Until the final championship game, the 
Mutant Eels were undefeated as they won the 
Minor League Championship with a 4-0 
record.
All School Intramural Water Polo 
Team:
Karl Malone — Phi Kap 
John Olsavsky — TX 
Whitney Foster — DTD 
MVP — Randy Johnson, SAE
G
our dough mode FRESH doily810 IVY STRUT • SHADYSIDC682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO: ^
• Shodyside • Pt. Bree?e •
• Sq. Hill • Oakland •
• Friendship Park
• Bloomfield •
• Highland
FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY I 2 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGH
FREE DELIVERY682-333
COUPONLarge Cheese Pizza
$3.99 Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone cheeit* and ere OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie............. ...........4.00
V* Hoagie................................. 2.00
Hot Sausage.............................3.90
Meat Ball.....................................3.90Cheese Hoagie............................3.20Steak Hoagie...............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. .•................4.20
Cold Sub................................. 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)......................4.70
fW—/ It fin Cwßtcoff wtt* Or—*Poppwt. léuMhfoomM 4 mot Spoeti Tovch)(AII toppod with tmh fttvso. tornito. o*èo* — mim • (Grò** Popipm* or lfm» — & &r$m)

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986—The Tartan—Page 19
A New Film Star From Carnegie Mellon
Curtis Smith (left) matches steel with a bearskin-clad Browns Player.
I
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
I Tartdft Sports Editor
c O CMU’er in films? Pretty routine. But 
Cmtis Smith is not your ordinary member
¦ of the Carnegie Mellon community, and he
¦ is starring in no ordinary production.
I smith, advisor to the Carnegie Mellon
II Martial Arts Club, plays a feature role in the 
m Cleveland Browns' new video Masters of the
I Gridiron.
The video is unique among NFL films.
I This one includes such subtleties as plot,
1 acting, and action. Also part of the package 
I js a tune by the Michael Stanley Band "Hard
I Die the Heroes," which will be available as a 
8 single.Masters of the Gridiron features the 
Browns as the barbaric tribe of Modella (a 
characterization Chuck Noll might agree 
I with), who are trying to retrieve the mystical 
i "Ring of Power," a band with significance to 
the tribe equal to that of a Super Bowl Ring. 
Facing the Browns is the Evil Emperor,
II Intersingly, the Evil Emperor is also a big 
name, Tiny Tim. He employs to defend him 
a bevy of martial-arts trained guards, of 
which Smith is a primary member.
- The martial arts scenes are what got Smith, 
a member of the American Martial Arts 
|| Stunts Association, involved in the video, 
f He was called in to add his expertise, and 
' brawn, to the fight scenes, including a big
I i match versus Cleveland center Mike Baab,
II who commands a starring role in the video 
| as BAABARIAN.
Smith has a long background in the martial 
H arts, dating from his college days at Pitt, 
I! where he played football for the Panthers
| under Jackie Sherrill from 1973 to 1975.XT — 10 firioi
1 ------------------------—___________tiriV/
Recently, he was awarded both gold and 
silver medals at the Pennsylvania Belt Karate 
Championships.
Since the organization's inception in 1978,
Curtis Smith has headed the Carnegie 
Mellon Martial Arts Club. His stage 
production, "Movement Extravangaza of the 
Martial Arts," has come to campus several
times,and has featured Carnegie Mellon 
students
In addition to guiding the Martial Arts 
Club, Smith advises a similar organization 
at Pitt, where he serves as a campus 
policeman.
Sharing the limelight with Smith are 
numerous Browns players, including Ozzie 
Newsome (THE MAGICAL WIZARD), 
Ernest Byner, Kevin Mack, and Hanford 
Dixon. Also featured is another former Pitt 
Panther, Dave Puzzoli, who shares the 
Browns’ nose tackle duties with Bob Golic, 
who stars in the Masters of the Gridiron as 
GOLIC AN.
One characterisitc the video shares with the 
"Superbowl Shuffle" is that a portion of the 
proceeds are donated to charity, in this case 
the United Way, which helped finance the 
$50,000 it cost to produce the full-length 
video.
Carnegie Mellon students don't have to pay 
to see the video, at least for a week anyway. 
The Masters of the Gridiron video will be 
shown all this week in Skibo at Scotland 
Yard.
If you must have you own copy of 
Masters of the Gridiron, the videotape, along 
with the poster and single, are distributed by 
Marketing A.M. located in Oakland, and the 
products should be available now in local 
stores.
Tartan Sports 
Staff Meeting 
Tuesday, 8 pm. 
New Writers Welcome.
Nov. 21,22,23, 1986
Friday — Point Park vs. Pitt- Johnstown, 7:00 
Carnegie Mellon vs.
LaRoche, 9:00
Saturday - Men’s Consolation Game, 1:00 
Men’s Championship Game, 3:00
and the Lady Tartans
Saturday — Carnegie Mellon vs.Carlow, 5:00
’ Case Western Reserve vs. Frostburg State, 7:00
“WERE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE"
Sunday — Women’s Consolation Game, 1:00
Women's Championship 
Game, 3 00 SUPPORTED AND PROMOTED BY
TOURNAMENT TICKETS DELTA UPSILON FRATERNITY
Adults — $5 
Students — $2
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE CARNEGIE MELLON GYMNASIUM ALL PROCEEDS BENEFIT THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION,WESTERN PA. CHAPTER

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan SportsMen’s Cross-Country Nationals-Bound
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
If you lode at the men’s cross-country 
team's schedule, it has listed on it both the 
NCAA Eastern Regionals and the NCAA 
National Championships. Some might call 
that bravado, but now people can call it 
planning ahead, because the Tartans' third 
place finish at Regionals on Saturday sends 
them to the Nationals this Saturday in 
Fredonia, NY.
The men were led by the twelth place 
finish of freshman Dave Supp who ran the 
five mile course in 26:32 minutes. Nine 
places back was junior Paul Camine who ran 
in 27:03. They were followed by Keith 
Stopen (27:29), Pat Noll (27:34), and Len 
O’Neal (27:36) who placed thirty-third, thirty- 
fourth, and thirty-fifth respectively. Also 
finishiing for the Tartans were Tom Ford 
(28:15,67th) and Tim Berger (28:36, 88th).
The team started off very quickly while 
most of the other runners started at a slower 
pace. The winner, Shylock Ndlovu of 
Messiah College, didn't take the lead until 
the last mile. After the first mile and a half, 
four Tartans were in the top fifteen; 
however, as the race continued, the men fell 
back into their final positions. Some of 
them did so literally; several runners had 
problems with the footing. Noll fell at the 
three mile mark, "I got nudged and where I 
stepped wasn't good footing. I was on a hill 
and I didn't get a good plant," said Noll.
Head Coach Gary Meckley was pleased 
with the Tartans' finish. "I thought they ran 
a pretty nice race. Len O’Neal did an 
exceptional job, I’m not singling him out, 
but he's been sick all week. They still didn’t 
run the race as they can, though. Had they 
been fallen, and had they been healthy, we
could have beaten Haverford (the second 
place school)."
This week, the Tartans are going to take it 
easy getting prepared for the Nationals. Both
Supp and Stopen agreed that the Tartans 
would run a better race at Fredonia. Said 
Supp, "I think a lot of guys were just a little 
nervous this week. Next week everybody
will be going all out." The competition at I 
Nationals will be much tougher ^ I 
according to Stopen. "Top twelve is 0» ¡1 
goal."
Women's X-Country Competes In First Regionals
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
"You've come a long way, baby” is a 
cigarette advertising slogan, but it could also 
be used to describe the women's cross­
country team, which finished its season 
Saturday by placing thirteenth at the NCAA 
Eastern Regionals in Allentown.
The Lady Tartans were led, as they’ve been 
led most of the season, by freshman Sue 
Johnson who placed 41st in a time of 21:05. 
She was followed by Theresa Pane, 
Francesca Crannell, Doris Kwong, Maria 
LaCroce, Molly Moritz, and Diane Ceonzo.
The competition on the 3.1 mile course 
was tougher than anything the Lady Tartans 
had seen all season. Said Johnson, "It was 
much stiffer than I expected. It was really a 
tough race." The stronger field also made for 
a faster race. "The lead runners were really 
good. To do anything you had to stay with 
them," commented Johnson.
This year marked the first year Carnegie 
Mellon had fielded a women’s team at 
Regionals and Head Coach Mindy Maxwell 
was proud of the Lady Tartan's showing. 
"They ran really good times. We're a 
growing team, beating five teams on our 
first time shows that."
The finish leaves the Lady Tartans in good 
shape after their second season running. 
Three seniors will leave the squad as does 
Coach Maxwell who will be replaced by new 
Coach Jim Perkins. Perkins will inherit a
team that has been undefeated in two years of 
dual meets, has won the PAC Champ, 
ionship two years in a row, and will boast 
three All-Conference runners. They've come 
a long way, and look to go a lot further.
The Carnegie Mellon Weight Lifting Club held a well-attended Power 
Lifting competition last Saturday in the Thistle Gym.Penn State Edges Hockey Club 7-6
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Hockey Tartans suffered a big upset at 
the hands of Penn State West Saturday, 7-6. 
Carnegie Mellon got off an outstanding 58 
shots on goal, but scored only six times 
while the Saints tallied an on equally 
outstanding 40% of their 17 shots. Penn 
State's victory was their first over Carnegie 
Mellon since 1980.
That stat was very indicative of the Tartans’ 
play all day. The Saints played a good 
game, in a very strange way. Their defense 
was set up in a box zone, very much like a 
short handed situation. The Tartans couldn't 
seem to break the zone, and then a missed 
shot that turned into a one on none, or two 
on one breakaway for the Saints.
The first period of play was very intense on 
both sides, as Penn State went into their box 
defense right from the start At 6:08 of the 
period, the Saints were called for tripping, 
and the call gave the Tartans their first real 
scoring chance of the day. But the Tartan 
advantage turned out to be a great 
disadvantage. Only ten seconds into the 
power play, Penn State’s center, Jim Reid, a 
freshman from Baldwin, took a fanned shot 
by CMU and turned it into a one on none 
break and deeked CMU goalie Dave Smith.
That goal was only the beginning, because 
only 30 seconds later, Reid struck again, this 
time on an assist from left winger Chris 
Humes to give the Saints a 2-0 lead. That 
was the first time the Tartans had given up 
two short handed goals in a game since they 
were beaten by Gannon University back in 
1982. Smith said after the game that "most 
of the goals were on two on one, or on on
none breaks."
The Tartans then gained control, as the 
puck stayed predominantly in the Saints’ 
end. Finally, at 10:26 of the period, Greg 
Timmons took a pass from Dave Basile and 
stuffed it past Roy Bus sard to make the score 
2-1. Bussard, a freshman, led his Chartiers 
Valley high school team last year to the AA 
state hockey championship. "Bussard played 
a good game," stated Timmons. "We just 
hit him right in the chest a lot, that is why 
we only scored 6 times in 58 tries."
Just a minute later, the Tartans scored 
again, as senior left wing Tom Hughes took 
a pass from sophomore right wing Pete 
Malkemes and blasted it past Bussard to knot 
the score at 2-2. It was the Wayne, NJ. 
native's first career goal as a Tartan.
But the tie was short-lived, as only 45 
seconds later, Penn State's Reid took a pass 
from Passio and Humes and put the puck 
past Smith to give the Saints a 3-2 lead. 
For Reid, it was his third goal of the period. 
CMU didn't lay down and die, though, as Pat 
Merchakscored on a pass from soph Mark 
Allen and Timmons to tie the score at 3-3.
Both teams suffered penalties, and with the 
Tartans down, Penn State untied the score 
again. Once again, Reid scored on a pass 
with one second left in the period from 
Humes and CMU went into the second 
period down 4-3
The second period was a much slower paced 
game, as Penn State solidified their lead. 
This time Humes got the goal, assisted 
again by Passio and Reid. The rest of the 
period was slow-paced, as both teams 
suffered a penalty each. The Tartans seemed 
a bit sluggish, as they were in the start of 
the game. "In the first two periods we didn't
play a physical enough game," commented 
Tartan tri-captain Sean McGinn.
Timmons, a junior tri-captain, also agreed 
with McGinn. "Everyone came into the 
game thinking that this is Penn State, and 
we can blow them out I did, everyone did; 
we really shouldn't have at all."
Carnegie Mellon entered the final stanza 
trailing 5-3. According to Timmons, "we 
were just trying to win the game in the 3rd 
period." The junior center tried to win the 
game single-handedly, as he scored at 5:26 
with help from freshman forward Todd 
Henderson, and again 102 seconds later on an 
unassisted rush off a Penn State giveaway. 
The Saints bounced right back when Passio 
scored his second goal off a Reid pass at 
8:26 to put Penn back in the lead, 6-5.
A minute and a half later, Henderson retied 
the game with his second point of the 
afternoon, assisted by Timmons and 
McGinn. The tie lasted but :07, as Reid won 
the ensuing faceoff, tapped it up right wing 
to Passio who sent it to Humes in the slot. 
Goalie Smith saved Humes’ wrist shot, but 
Reid put the rebound over Smith’s glove, 
catapulting the Saints back into the lead. 
The Tartans pulled Smith with 1:15 left, but 
couldn't score with the extra skater.
The victory was Penn State’s first Western 
Pennsylvania Collegiate Hockey Association 
win of the season, while the Tartans dropped 
to 1-1-1 in conference play. Carnegie 
Mellon's overall record is now 1-3-1, 
including two losses last weekend to Ohio 
State's club team.
Tartan head coach Bob Koch was away on 
family business this weekend, and not at the 
game. Timmons handled the forwards while 
McGinn organized the defenseman in Koch's
absence. Timmons was especially concern« 
about the Tartans' play.
"The missed shots really killed us. If wi 
play like this next semester, we won't 
able to compete with teams like Pil 
Duquesne and Gannon."
Carnegie Mellon will play their final g: 
this semester against IUP, Sunday at 2: 
pm in Kittaning.
Tartan Tattlers - Second year SUM 
student Pat Merchak was named third tri 
captain last week...Dave Smith started hi 
first game as a Tartan in nets against Pen 
State...Next Saturday’s scheduled skirmis 
with Pitt has been postponed until 
semester...Sunday’s game, originally 
WRCTs broadcast schedule, will 
exempted by the Big Heart Basketba 
Tournament...The Penn State broadcast wa 
cancelled because of technical difficulties
Scoreboard
Hockey
Penn State -West 7 
Carnegie Mellon 6
Men *s Track
Glassboro State 58 
Haverford 99 
Carnegie Mellon 133 
Gettysburg 180 
Allegheney 193 
F&M 198 
Messiah 198 
Grove City 232 
Ursinus 237 
Trenton State 267

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment Comics Classifieds Events
Tartan Interview: George A. Romero
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor 
George Romero's husky build and salt-and- 
pepper beard give one the impression that 
the guy should be popping up in shopping 
malls asking tiny tots what they want come 
Christmas. Although Romero looks the 
part, don't be fooled: this guy is no Santa. If 
he had a list it would not be who's been 
good and who's been bad, it would contain 
your deepest fears and nightmares.
For almost twenty years, George Romero, 
along with a talented group of filmmaking 
“elves,” has been making movies that al­
ways seem to find a way to scare the wits 
out of audiences. Ever since flesh-hungry 
zombies threatened to conquer the world in 
the now cult-classic Night of the Living 
Dead, Romero has established himself as one 
of todays premiere horror directors and screen­
writers. He has made ten feature films since 
the release of Night of the Living Dead in 
1968. Although all (with the exception of 
Knightriders which was a modem day ver­
sion of Camelot) have been bone-chilling, 
each film has it’s own unique style and ident­
ity. Romero's virtuostic talents as a director 
and writer have prompted critics to compare 
him to likes of Alfred Hitchcock and Orson 
Wells. What makes Romero's silver-screen 
feats even more amazing, is that he went to 
a college that has no film program to speak 
of - Carnegie Mellon.
Romero began his studies at Carnegie 
Mellon in 1957 as a Painting and Design 
major. After three years he switched to 
drama. In his second year as a drama student, 
he got together a group of friends and made 
his first film. Titled Expostulations, it was 
an anthology of five stories which Romero 
describes as “very high minded, artsy sort of 
thing that was inspired by Ingmar Bcr 
man... innovators of the time, I guess..,* 
don't remember where it shuffles into tini&l 
just loose track of time.” The film was QlfllUk 
ually finished but the company that was to 
do the soundtrack went bankrupt 1|
The group acquired office space in 
downtown Pittsburgh and fom«^^ent 
Image Productions. While working for La­
tent Image, which Romero is jusf now dis­
solving, he produced and directed commercial 
television spots for major corporations. It 
was about this time that Romero began to 
write the screenplay for his first full-length 
feature, Night of the Living Dead. Romero, 
along with nine friends chippet) in $600 each 
to form a separate company, Image ?6n, just 
for the production of the 
the film on a shoesi 
Upon release it
but after a |ely
popular. It 
sales t<
Ima; 
doll 
tribu1 
millii 
The 
day 
coll 
New! 
vidi 
incli 
A 
film 
profi 
P
lain
Carnegie Mellon graduate, Lori Cardille, stars in Romero's third Living Dead film, Day of the Dead
sports profiles for Monday Night Football, 
which, as he says, were pretty predictable 
and profitable. With money in his pocket 
again, he began shooting more feature films. 
The first of which was a modern-day treat­
ment of the vampire genre. Martin recieved 
rave reviews for Romero's combination of 
wit and horror. A movie of the times, the 
teen-aged vampire used a syringe to extract 
blood from his victims. It instantly became 
& sensation on the New York midnight 
movie cunuit.
In 1979 he made Dawn cf the Dead& sequel 
to Night of the Living Dead. A smash hit 
from the start, Romero was quickly be­
coming one the top horror directors. Filmed 
in the Monroeville Mall, Romero mixed hor­
ror, satire, slapstick and numerous jabs at 
consumerism.
Romero's only departure from horror came 
right after Dawn of the Dead. Knightriders 
starred Ed (The Right Stiff) Harris as the 
leader of a traveling troupe of performers 
who put on shows of medieval pagentry that 
featured jousting on motorcycles. Critics 
hailed Romeros versatility and called the 
film “Camekx on a Yamaha.”
Since Kmghtriders, he has released two 
films; Day of the Dead and Creepshow. 
Although his woita liave brought him 
and as he puts it a “comfortable liv-J, 
possibly the greatest honor was givi 
n only two years ago. He 
people in the department put in
nad
|, was only 
he comments. I 
chance to talk wife him last week 
and the following is the first of a two part 
feature op the modern-day master of horror. 
Tartan: In just about every film you have 
made there appears some degree of social 
commentary, are you trying to make a 
temcnt or just add a diffe»8te element to 
youf film?
Romero: I don't think I am trying to make 
a statement that is unique... the thoughts are 
not new thoughts. Of course it is meant to 
be an indication of how I think and to that 
extent it's sort of a handshake with the audi­
ence. It's using fantasy for what I think it 
was intended - social satire, social comment. 
It's important to me that the films reflect the 
time that surrounds them.
Tartan: Do you feel that the low-budget, 
slice-and-dice films of today are “degrading” 
the industry because they lack this element 
of social commentary?
Romero: I think that are very few 
filmmakers who work in the expliotation 
genres that really care about what they are 
doing. So, in those terms, those films don't 
come close. Accidently a film reflects the 
times and therefore becomes some kind of 
message about what's happening when the 
film is made. Then it becomes something 
that you can put in a time capsule, look a 
hundred years from now and maybe get some 
information from... about the attitudes and 
mores, and particularly if its a popular film. 
If it is, then it becomes a comment unto 
itself and because one asks: “Why was it pop\ 
ular?” As far as these Friday the Thirteenth 
lima, it just surprises me why they are 
¡ful. I've heard discussions saying 
are some kind of punishment for 
ig bu| I have act been able to find a
Ta
many
we have no 
Romero: 1 have 
people- Pat Bub*, 
Cletus Anderson, John 
like I was looking to 
gether, it just sort of
up with so 
even though 
speak of? 
with a loi of CMU 
iVtoi. Barb and 
But if s not 
Itaach to- 
that way.
Over the years you just meet up with 
people.
Tartan: Pittsburgh is a pretty good disllncc 
from mainstream Hollywood, and CMU is
A knife through the head scene
no USC or NYU in the business. So you 
chose to make your films independently 
instead, but you are currently making a film 
for a studio (a remake of War of the Worlds 
for Paramount) as well. What is the main 
difference between the two?Romero: The difference is that studio 
projects are filmmaking by committee. Your 
serving a mechanism rather than serving an 
individual... I'd rather work with an individ­
ual even if it was the most mercenary pro­
ducer. It's like working for the government 
or a large corporation, attitudes and styles 
may change the next day, therefore, the 
whole beureacracy has to bend in that 
direction, and you're forced to change 
what you are doing. The operative values continued on page D2

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—November 18, 1986
George Romero talks about his movies, the industry and more
continued from page D1
have nothing to do with the movie. That is 
the worst part of it.
Tartan: Do you feel that the recent upsurge 
of the smaller, independent studios such as 
Touchstone, De Laurentis Entertainment 
Group, and Island Pictures are changing the 
industry at all?
Romero: I think it's another way to skin 
the cat, I am not all that optimistic about all 
that. I don't neccessarily trust a lot of the 
people that are making the biggest waves. 
Most of these companies, with the exception 
of maybe Island, seem to be the Hills Broth­
ers or the K-Marts of the movie industry. In 
fact I worry about it because what they have 
done is slashed cost down to impossible lev­
els. For the most part they are doing the 
same kind of junk that studios are doing, but 
they are doings it much less effectively. The 
creative people within that structure are 
really not getting to express themselves at 
all. They are just cheapening the process. 
Tartan: Stephen King, with whom you 
directed his film; Creepshow, made a film 
with De Laurentis Entertainment Group this 
past summer, Maximum Overdrive, and the 
ad campaign suggested that he was fed up 
with other people directing his movies and 
was going to do it his way. You are sched­
uled to make another film with him; Pet 
Semetary. Do you think that there will be 
any changes in his attitude?
Romero: The deal that I have on Pet 
Semetary is a curious deal. I have first 
refusal on it and I am technically supposed 
to do it. But who knows if it is ever going 
to get made or not... I have spoken to Steph­
en since Maximum Overdrive and I went 
down to visit him while he was filming it, 
he doesn't seem to changed at all.
He was just getting it out of his system. My 
feeling about it is that he got a little bit 
raped by the people he was working with. I 
don't think he deserved as much heat as he 
took. It was a “shit-kicker” movie and Steve 
said that was what it was intended to be. I 
didn't have any real problem with it... I 
thought it was an o'k film... whether or not 
you argue with the script I thought that 
Steve did a credible job of directing but I 
thought they raped him. The advertising cam­
paign all the other stuff they did, they just 
threw him to the wolves. And I think that 
Steve would like to do another film, but 
next time he would do it differently- finance 
it himself. He should not have gotten in bed 
with the wolves.
Tartan: When someone comes to see one 
of your films, what should they see? 
Romero: I hope that they see that there is 
somebody there who cares about movies. 
That is what I really care about. I love the 
form , I love doing it, I love everything 
about it and I'm not there just to exploit the 
audience or exploit the genre. I am really 
trying. I hope that people understand that. 
My fondest hope is that people see the dif­
ference between my things and such films 
as Friday the Thirteenth. For my money, 
they are not made by peolple who have any 
affection for the genre and they are just sort 
of pale imitations of something that went 
before. I think that Psycho was probably the 
grandfather of these kinds of films.
Tartan: How do you feel about the critical 
reaction to your films?
Romero: I’ve done o'k...
Tartan: You have done very well.. Jack 
Kroll of Newsweek, Vincent Canby of The 
New York Times, and Siskel & Ebert have 
been singing your praises.
Ed Harris (on bike) leads the traveling motorcycle troupe in Knightriders
Romero: Roger used to really support me 
and Gene Siskel has been pretty kind. They 
didn't like Day of the Dead, which really 
surprised me. In fact a lot of people didn’t, I 
think I lost a lot of my defenders with Day 
of the Dead. I am not quite sure why and that 
worries me a little. I really came to like 
Day of the Dead after all the grief that went 
down while we were making it. In many 
ways I like it better than the other two. 
Tartan: It got the worst critcal reaction of 
the three, though.
Romero: I think that was wrong, I think it 
was people saying “oh, there he goes again.” 
Tartan: It seemed to be the most
commercial, and the cleanest looking of the 
three., the biggest production 
Romero: It certainly was the best executed 
and I think that my work as a director and as 
a writer was much better. It wasn't a
rollercoaster ride and I think people do not 
want my charcters to talk or express 
opinions, they want them to react... more 
like Dawn of the Dead. It bothers me a little 
that people feel this way and of course it 
always makes you question “Well maybe I 
am not as good a writer as I think I am.” No 
matter how immune you get to it, you al­
ways respond and react to it and wonder 
about it. You just can't shake it. It's like a 
ghost that haunts you.
Next week: George Romero 
talks about directing and 
writing, colorization, and his 
work on the remake of War of 
the Worlds for Pararmount 
Pictures.
You're Invited!
To : Vote at the Student Senate Election
Time : November 18 9am - 9pmNovember 19 9am - 8am
Place : Hunt Library
Come aet involved!
VOTE 
to strengthen 
The Link
Make a difference!
It's up to you!
P.S. Bring a friend!
-Another A-Phi-O Service-Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

November 18,1986—>The Tartan Page D3
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh....................................................................... 782-402324 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection............................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid.................................................................................................. 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
Tired of Eighties Survival? 
Try some Sixties Revival.
The Kappa Delta Rho 
Sixties Revival Party
November 21,1966 
1071 More'wood Ave. (In The Quad)
The Airlines Transportation Company
— Official Airlines Carrier—
will now operate service to the Greater Pittsburgh International Airport 
for Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh students 
direct from the campuses.
Our Thanksgiving schedule will be on these dates: Nov. 24, 25, and 26. 
Five (5) departures each day.
Carnegie Mellon Departures
__________(GSIA building)__________
7:45 am 
9:45 am 
11:45 am 1:45 pm 
3:45 pm 
5:45 pm
Return Services — Sunday, Nov. 30 — Each hour 4 pm through 9 pm. 
Rate: $8.00 per person each way.
A Homer epic gets a computerized makeover
By LAURA LIND
Tartan Staflwriter 
The return, home after a long, grueling war 
should be a happy one. For Odysseus, 
however, the return after fighting for 10 
years in the Trojan War is not exactly 
rewarding. It is the struggle Odysseus en­
counters while trying to return to his home 
in Ithaca that comprises the plot of "The 
Odyssey", Carnegie Mellon Drama's current 
production in the Kresge Theatre. ïîS& is the 
first full-scale production of Leon Katz's 
exciting adaptation of Homer's epic. To 
give the actors a better understanding of
CMU Drama Presents...
TTto© Odlyssey
this adaptation, Katz himself was brought in 
from Yale University to translate the entire 
story of Odysseus for them.
The play retains certain aspects of ancient 
Greek life; one can see several of the Greek 
gods and goddesses, such as Zeus, Athene, 
Poseiden and Hermes. However, some 
anachronistic features have been added. For 
instance, Odysseus' son Telemachus is 
dressed in contemporary dress. The 
villainous Antinous and his suitors wear 
modem business suits. Perhaps these 
anachronisms have to do with the time­
lessness of the theme. As director Jorge 
Guerra says, "'The Odyssey’ is about the 
discoveries that someone like Odysseus 
could make under extreme circumstances. It 
is a simple parable of what it means to be 
human."
There are several extraordinary aspects in 
CMU's version of "The Odyssey." Director 
Guerra integrates arias within the play, sung 
by voice majors as well as actors. An 
offstage voice narrates much of the play. The 
props, though few in number, are quite 
unusual, yet very effective. The set is epic 
in itself. Set designer Gary English 
integrates many awe-inspiring effects to 
dazzle the audience. The floor of the stage 
slides open, revealing a pool of water in 
which the characters simulate swimming.
One must give credit to the stage crew, 
who seem to work flawlessly as they 
smoothly and interestingly prepare the stage 
for the ensuing actions.
The costumes are beautiful and add color 
and mood to stage. It is obvious that long 
hours went into the design and creation of 
them. The most unique and sometimes 
haunting part of the show, Jhowever, is the 
use of computer-generated images for 
backgrounds and special effects. These 
images were developed through the 
collaborative efforts of Gary English, artist 
Harry Holland and computer graphics expert 
Michael Ferraro. This method is used to 
create incredible images, including a one- 
eyed cyclops which interacts with the 
characters.
Because of the limited props, much of the 
responsibility of portraying the travels of 
Odysseus is left up to the actors and they do 
an excellent job of this. Under the direction 
of Guerra, many symbolistic movement 
gestures are incorporated, giving the show a 
mystifying aura. Greg Steres as Odysseus 
gives a powerful performance, as does 
Delbert Highlands, as his son, Telemachus. 
Pamela Winslow is convincing as Odysseus’
Greg Steres (Odysseus) and Pamela Winslow (Penelope) star in “The Odyssey”
mother Penelope. Colin Martin gives an 
electrifyingly powerful performance as 
Antinous. All of the other actors, including 
Voice majors, children and dramats as well, 
give captivating performances.
Although none of us will ever go through 
the perils that Odysseus suffered we will 
probably feel many of the same feelings as 
him; fear and pain, love and happiness- and 
that is what makes "The Odyssey" a
thematic as well as visually enrapturing 
production.
"The Odyssey" runs from November 18-22 
at 8:00 with a matinee on the 22nd at 2:00 
in the Kresge Theatre located in the College 
of Fine Arts building, Camegie-Mellon 
campus. Buy your tickets soon, a few 
performances are selling out already.
Robert Cucuzza contributed to this acticle.

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986—The Tartan—Page D4
By CHRISTOPHER GRAY
Special to The Tartan
This week's art show at Forbes Gallery, 
"This is the Picture",features the vitamin 
fortified work of Patrick Shea, Christine 
Liotta, and Kathleen Flaherty. Their 
exhibition will consist mostly of drawings, 
illustrations, and paintings. None of the art­
ists could be located for comment, but an in­
quisitive trip to Pat Shea's studio revealed 
this art historical anecdote, tacked to the 
wall:
"While living in California, German Ex­
pressionist Max Beckman encountered many 
problems adjusting to the American, and 
especially the Californian way of life. One 
cf his more embarrassing perdicaments came 
on the fateful Saturday in November, 1953, 
when he and his beagle, Fritz, went grocery 
shopping. "
"Mrs. Beckman had asked Max to pick up 
some weiner schnitzel at the local A&P, and 
taking Fritz along for excercise and com­
pany, Max was only too obliging. Arriving 
at the store , Max trotted to the deli counter, 
ordered his schnitzel, and was patiently wait­
ing for his order when Miss Myma Hinkle, 
bending over to select the best bargain for 
dill pickle spears, lost her then avant-guard 
bikini top into a bin of pig's feet. Fritz 
coincidentally snapped his leash while 
Myma covered herself with a copy of The 
National Enquirer, and as he sped by the 
groping Myma, his collar caught her bikini 
strap, dangling from the bin of feet. 
Fritz,with Myma’s tragic top flailing behind 
like a kite tail, sped out the automatic A&P 
doors and down Coconut Drive."
"Max Beckman was mortified. Forgetting 
completely about his wife's weiner schnitzel, 
he raced after his dog shouting, "Fritz!
Fritz! you naughty dog! Give back that nice 
lady's blouse!" Fritz, understanding only his 
own name in English, scampered all the way 
home to Mrs. Beckman."
"Up hopped Fritz onto her lap as Max, 
panting »reached the doorway. Mrs. Beckman 
spied the bikini top like a poisonous snake, 
slinking from Fritz's collar, and cooly asked 
Max,"Where is my weiner schnitzel?" adding 
just as he was about to say ,"I can explain 
everything!",'! didn't know they sold scanty 
underwear at the market."
By MARNI HALASA
Special to the Tartan
"Outward Inward" is a new compilation 
highlighting the work of Pittsburgh's 
alternative musicians. It features an ecletic 
mix of bands that share a common thread: all 
use innovative technique to create an 
experimental sound. The anthology covers a 
wide variety of music- from new age 
electronisized synth-pop, to heavy industrial 
tones. Non-syncopated beats, electronic 
whirls, gurgurling voices, and hammering 
monotones build effects that are bound to 
make the average listener take notice.
Well-known local talent, such as Hector in 
Paris, Sofex, and Morphic Resonance are 
featured, and new names are introduced: 
PMS, The Autumn, Banner Day, Blond 
Venus, Ken Clinger, Current Information, 
Earthquakes, Ray Farbarik, Foetal Pain, 
Method of Dance, Metlay, Profit Motive, 
Rodea Pig, Wintermute, and Za Dharsh.
Experimental music uses different musical 
means other than conventional instruments
"After two hours of Max's explaining the 
afternoon's bizarre events and that the bikini 
was not underwear, Mrs. Beckman was still 
hitting him around their house with a 
broom. She was reaching for her favorite 
iron skillet when the doorbell rang."
"Max ran to the safety of answering it only 
to find Myma Hinkle, National Enquirer still 
pressed to her bosom. Mrs. Beckman and her 
skillet peered over Max's shoulder and to the 
painter's surprise, she gladly invited Myma
to communicate ideas. PMS emphasizes the 
inflections of a single voice spaced between 
intervals of trickling water-like sounds to 
make a statement about the social role pretty 
girls play in society. Profit Motive uses the 
repetitive requests of evangalists asking for 
financial support to show hipocrisy in the 
evangelical world. Za Dharsh creates a dirge­
like monotony using sticks to hit a musical 
stand illustrating an essence of death and 
doom.
Electronisized, synthesized material coming 
from Current Information, Morphic 
Resonance, Eric Allison, and Wintermute is 
a primary part of this experimental 
compilation. Some songs are a bit 
repetitive, yet their melodies are full of 
smooth tones and funked-up arpeggios which 
highlight unemphasized talent. Generic tunes 
from A Method of Dance and Hector in Paris 
somewhat diminish the tape's overall 
musical competence, yet it is regained 
through the unpredictable diversity of 
Earthquake's flowing piano piece, Foetal
Myma, it turned out was Lotte Lenya's 
maid, Mrs. Beckman having met her the 
week before at Lotte's tea party. All involved 
were quite relieved to see the mess of 
innuendo cleared up and after Myma dressed 
and left. Max and Mrs. Beckman cuddled by 
the T.V. set."
"Fritz spent the evening chained up 
outside."
Pat, Christine, and Kathleen's show of 
recent work will be open Tuesday November 
18 , 9-7pm, and will run through November 
25. All are heartily invited to attend.
on new album
Pain's sucking sounds, as well as Blond 
Venus’ rock-pop effort.
The quality of the tape's production is far 
from perfect, yet it can't be ignored. Inward 
Outward's attempt to combine experimental 
technique with expression of ideas deserves 
much credit. Proceeds from the cassette sales 
go to Hunger Action Coalition and the 
Pittsburgh Food Bank.
There undoubtedly is a growing alternative 
potential in Pittsburgh. With more 
ambitious efforts by local bands and their 
fans' support, it will surely continue. Let's 
hope it does.
M®@it ito© sdsurs ©if 
Tirdk
Read Diversions next week for 
the inside scoop on the new 
movie, Stat Trek IV: The Voyage Home
Vitamin fortified work at Forbes Gallery
ft
Pittsburgh musicians highlighted
Pssssst.......................
Gift Giving Dilemma?
Travel Gift Certificates!Forbes Travel(412)521-7300 or CMU x2999
Improve Your Income Potential & Career Opportunities. Get an MBA.
I
f you are about to graduate from college or have already, you can 
greatly increase your employability and income potential by 
obtaining an MBA from Ohio State. Our full-time two-year MBA 
program is designed to provide professional management 
education. It is one of the top 25 programs in the country and has 
many unique features, including:
• no prerequisite course work
• open to students with nonbusiness backgrounds
• specializations in just one or two management fields through elec­
tive course work
• an integrated curriculum that will give you a solid foundation in 
management tools and concepts
• a high level of student and faculty-student interaction
• a curriculum accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate 
Schools of Business.
We offer a full range of career-counseling and placement services. 
Recent graduates have found positions with recognized lead­
ers—these include:
Strategic product planner, Pontiac Motors 
Marketing research analyst, General Mills, Inc.
Management consultant, Arthur Andersen & Co.
Financial analyst, Hewlett-Packard Company 
Commercial lender, National Bank of Detroit 
Management systems analyst, Procter & Gamble 
Assistant product manager, Oscar Mayer Foods Corporation 
Distribution analyst, Clorox Company 
Export control analyst, IBM Corporation
Find out more—call or write for our free brochure.
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
(614) 292-8511The Ohio State University
COLLEGE WEEKEND
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 21 & 22
15% OFF
THE PROFESSIONAL WOMAN318 Smithfield Street One Oxford Centre 765-1220 (this location only)
Your education is your most valuable asset. 
The right suit will not get you the Interview, but the wrong suit may keep you from 
getting the job.
WORK fvjb 
WITH THE 
BEST.
Be a computer scientist and 
officer in the Air Force. The Air 
Force is forging new frontiers 
in computer technology. If 
you have a Computer Science 
degree, you may qualify to 
work with the best and receive 
all the outstanding advantages 
and opportunities the Air Force 
offers. Call
*
1Lt Robert A. Fantaske 
at (412) 687-7315 collect
Foaer?^
______ - - . ______________________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986—The Tartan—Page D5
VVarren Goes "Beyond The Edge” With Ski Adventure Film
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
poes the idea of skiing off a hot air balloon, 
off 100 foot cliffs, or at speeds exceeding 70 
miles per hour excite you? Do world snow 
speed records, mogul slalom races, or just 
pushing one's self to the edge of self- 
preservation turn you on? Then the newest 
production by the king of the ski slopes 
Warren Miller, "Beyond the Edge", is a must 
^your^we^nd^lendaj^^^^^^^^^^
Miller explores the edge of 
reality — the edge where the 
instinct for self-preservation 
is balaced against the urge to 
challenge one’s limits..._______________
World renowned skier, sports filmmaker, and 
international superstar Warren Miller has once 
again given the personal-best adventure 
minded ski enthusiast cause to jump. His 
latest film entitled "Beyond the Edge" is 
perhaps the most thrilling film of his 37 
feature career . Miller explores the edge of a 
skier’s reality - the edge where the instinct for 
self-preservation is balanced against the urge 
to challenge one's limits "to risk it all by 
climbing a little higher, skiing just a little 
farther...".
Featured in this thrill-packed adventure 
extravaganza are some of the most fearless and 
famous skiers who also jump from hot air 
balloons, break world speed records,challenge 
the most dangerous slopes and a host of other 
daredevil antics caught by Miller's earners. He 
also focuses on the newest equipment 
including the mono ski, the latest rage on 
Eurpoean slopes, and the snowboard, the 
surfer's answer to winter thrill and excitement.
Perhaps the most famous and widely 
known ski filmmaker, Miller has produced 
numerous award-winning films, starting 
with his first ski feature "Deep and Light*' 
on a budget of $500 to his latest feature, 
"Beyond the Edge" which ran over a 
million dollars. His current film logged 
over 150,000 air miles and an additional 
50,000 on the road, to film the most 
dangerous and glamerous high altitude 
spots on earth, including Zermatt 
Switzerland, Lech Austira, the Canadian 
Bugaboos, the Rockies, Chamonix France 
and numerous others. The Los Angeles 
Times has described Miller as a 
"combination Jean-Claude Killy/Robert 
Redford/Ingmar Bergman/Woody Allen.
Miller tours the country with his films, 
narrating them in person to standing room 
only crowds in as many as 50 cities each 
fall, while in 250 other North American 
cities, his films are screened with the 
master’s pre-recorded personal narration.
He makes it a point to be in on every 
aspect of his films, from conception to
distribution. He frequents many of the 
shooting locations while also producing 
narrating, and even helping to edit each film. 
Miller has, in his 37 year career, produced 37 
annual ski features and over 400 other sports 
films. His entertaining and abundantly 
humorous films have been seen on the 
Disney Channel, on syndicated televison, 
and on at least 300,000 sets at ski resorts 
across the U.S. through Warren Miller 
Enterprises' Resort Cable Network.
This has, of course, led to numerous 
awards to his name including nine CINE 
Golden Eagles, eight IFPA awards, and the 
distinguished International Documentary 
Achievement Award, presented in conjuction 
with a 1984 Filmex tribute to his sports 
films. His achievements also include 
induction into the U.S. Ski Hall of Fame 
and last year, he received ihehighestpossible 
honor from the U.S. Ski Writers 
Association, The Golden Quill Award.
Miller has also branched out into 
instructional films, his latest home video 
entitled, "Warren Miller's Learn to Ski
Better," is being distributed throughout 
North America. This is the only ski 
instructional video endorsed by the 
Professional Ski Instructors of America 
(PSIA).
One of the other talents of this multi­
faceted person is his writing. Having 
authored two books, "Wine, Women, and 
Skis" and "In Search of Skiing", Miller has 
adorned the skiing public with about every 
aspect of skiing imaginable.
The best way to round out this multi­
sport,-multi-media success, MiMer states, 
"It's been a long enjoyable road...and 
fortunately for my fans, the road still has 
miles/slopes/seas left to travel and film..."
"Beyond The Edge" will be shown at the 
Pittsburgh Syria Mosque November 21 and 
22 at 8 and 10 pm and November 23 at 7 
pm. Ticket price is $6.50 and can be 
purchased at the Syria Mosque Box Office 
or Charge-By-Phone at 621-3333. Group 
rates are available for groups of 20 or more 
by calling Suzanne at 682-2200.
11111 WMF TOP pif
... • * • m
GROUP :iü.34073SaLABEL
: Bad Brains •AgainstSST 1
Psychic TV12-inchTempie(tm):: ’. ' • • •
Cro-Mags• The Age (if QuarrelProfile
Rain .. . IFiatL*& ,Meta Meta
Government Issue .FOY024Fountain of Youth
Volcano SunsAll Night Lotus PartyHomestead :Gargoyle SoxHeadless Horsemen¿¿•¿Manster iMi
Robyn HitchcockElement of LightRelativity î.:|;-
Gone " V:!: £ ;B:::v : Gone II, But Never too Goneïïi SST v/HöskerDä-. 12-inch f. Warner (UK) if.-
Student Senate Funding and Recognition Committee
Fall 1986 Report to all Activities Fee Paying Students
As required by the Student Senate Fiscal Policy, I, Tamal Mukherjee, respectfully submit the summary of all 
subsidy allocations that the Funding and Recognition Committee will be recommending to the Student Senate at 
7:00pm on Tuesday, November 18, 1986 in the Wherrett Room in Skibo. Representatives of all the 
organizations listed below are required to be present at the meeting.
Organization
Amiga Users' Group 
Carnegie Involvement Association 
Computer Club 
Emergency Medical Squad 
Gay and Lesbian Alliance 
Law Club
Macintosh Users' Group 
Mayur
Oakland Review
Robotics Club
Scotch n' Soda
Shotokan Karate Club
Spring Carnival
Sweepstakes
Ultimate Frisbee Club
Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Club
Women's Lacrosse Club
TOTAL
Subsidy
1,073 
2,620 
3,436 
1,770 
441 
172 
1,998 
233 
1,410 
2,174 
2,550 
195 
12,005 
6,810 
650 
850 
1,601
$ 39,998
All Activities Fee paying students are invited to come to the meeting and participate in the allocation precoess.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the leaders of the organizations, the 
members of the Funding and Recognition Committee, and especially to Dean Cox, for all the work they have 
done to make this a successful semester for the committee.
TAMAL MUKHERJEE 
co-Chair of Funding, 
Funding and Recognition Committee 
Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

miay<3NV9 i
çjm Let
J-3MI‘ìmwxtmwwm
/ AJOOG
ïmmemMm
//MWxm
f -W3HV
-&a&\ ¿mu 
» awn Nim, 
ç,iÇ3iHd swjnr JO NOUkJNÿf Mt MONÔNV
/d/Nrs. ax, eL
/MCÜ, 
SflouJûM (3WW,
-MON Vü 
¦ÇMIO'SM^ÊM 
nbU3W-AA>&r^ AWM9.N As itann 
,N NMOd ‘d30N3M3d)Q 
Ni ¿memwAiNOW
•çvawwdVdHÛZdNItAl-JJJOXdMcrmj'3wrm
"m/wdNV INOXJ’/)0A
)todwv\I 
3wm~NMo
AWOm* ¿ W3WJW3H
¡¿çommm
N! ¿m&BWt 
XâDOMâim
mm omânv^
¿AKM/OM)çvrwmiê&¥0d JVHl S/JVHM
iç/ir~dxn ¿XXX)
¿AmWGTM90MÜ9*Ç/GHMtdmL
JWftûNV
Jjmrm&ii m ¿ um
-fimSN! M WV m NVO 
dNW>mj mw-ÀMdH 
JJM-Wy V ïmmi 
ONUMM WL ~T)/9
¦QN&NG AHI 
¿9Ni$noAt/VD • Twwiv-mL
NAewanmL0ÌHO3T9/¿XX/)
30wmMONjdOM/IP¥M
/jm
¦~X3Ç 30001 "&UX8NW 
A3N0W 90 9NÌH13W00 "M&VO'dlHlOW&BN I - xmvo Ì&H10NV
CD 
Mm ¿Mm
//¿mn iWJ3W-AW3H 
V 3WNVWnz/j/çjm
A1NÍ103 NOOlflOQS A<\ papjAOJds)ods)|U|
sDirao^)

---------------------------------------------------

A Look Withinby Kneep Debends
r joii Come io thzyt
¿Kiny -to
Ort« irt Scwfrfc Ml.., f
0*tt Here bje ore oi ouw^W
OlU 7fecKnic*J Scrtin^r /)
Itttlliyertcz iVi fjkir b«>«r "fethnoiojM*... 
PerS0AaM% XrCi br!*iyn,rt« enthujedT interest. J
~<2§g|g)
riti
teAuaw, the vesmtMt x/tuktw/u he- /j jaj| *i.ow<l MTh Mli OuU (AXPtAkAtUt HVVOB*
•nHMy rt n"EnTf t% «(¿.to Mown** |
seo>woi^( my 8bv r -mux, ut-'SHoc/tO KHJOHt YOm T» WE T€A(4. UH**». VUM ARf a__________________ )' PRSt, PETyNfPrUZE tt ~^WAVS NO r^TE JHf «If .¿i
iLul ., MB x'
wyfloY. A uswrru* F6*7 ecfi 'reu jistJVULtD HMMS TWi
iCH TO THE NAUSEA OT THE OT*«rt --------------1 CMUTjyjTX_____
Htr.THlS
nsnukBTtuoa
hxmEu
*rmiTOT?/In A matter 01 rnt (ciiTii- Moos re*. n to much froMAo« AoO
CMUtants by Translucia Baboon & Klutz Kaboom
IT LOOKS LIKÉ TIMMY IS 
ST|u_ Ir4 
t>|RE rrftAlirHr. 
Cur NOU, 
St>MfcTWI*J$ 
REAUY VILb IS MSour to 
OaoRt.
"fot WU1S h HVMI«|RT'/
Ed Baranoski
ivdlC &rrXf/J& TO TW4r. 
rv» a^caid hjc didn't- «/Ave 
A#yc^v sPAcer, so ...
KfiiPHy ùjued€~is ¿f oesK?
Tms tuas 5rs-r
¿OC COULD Do.You veEmpwg &nr pwtEi 
smuDAUD TV'S ///«*<
, Ì64Ì.ÌV ?
by Jeff Diehl
e82 ic-5
f^B^NMEWTs Hersa^-
WI(kLiflAN-t
''50 Hfwe
PHY$IC*L PLAH t 
K.ZTCP-rHEM. J

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8—The Tartan—November 18, 1986
Joe Bob reviews Trick or Treat for Halloween•••
By JOE BOB BglGGS ,
Drive-In Movie Critic
A bunch of New York Mr. Potato Head 
teevee bosses gave me a hundred bucks to 
drive up there and be on The Movie Channel 
all this month, and so we spent the day 
standin around this grungy studio over by 
Madison Square Garden poppin tall boys and 
watchin the New York union crews pick the 
moss out from between their teeth and wait- 
in on the High Sheriffs of Showtime Inc. to 
get finished sayin, "Mr. Briggs, just what 
did you mean by this expression 'makin the 
sign of the double-humped sperm whale?' I 
believe we should reshoot that entire se­
quence." It was great.
Now for the depressin news.
Ed Koch is going crazy. The man is a 
maniac. He has somethin called a "Times 
Square Redevelopment Plan," and when I 
first heard about it, I thought "Great! They're 
finally gonna clean the place up by KICKIN 
THE NEW YORK TIMES OUTTA 
THERE." But you know what they’re doin 
instead?
Rippin down, closin out, shuttin up some 
of die greatest indoor moviehouses ever 
created, includin the one I'll always remem­
ber as ALWAYS THREE KUNG FU
HITS, not to mention LIVE SEX ACT. 
"Live Sex Act" played for about EIGHT 
YEARS STRAIGHT. The only movie I ever 
heard of that played longer than that was 
"Dos Peliculas."
Anyhoo, the only point is I want you to 
just LISTEN to some of the garbahj they're 
puttin in these great drive-in palaces in the 
name of urban renewal.
Joe Bob at the Drive-In
"Sweet Charity": Debbie Allen twinklin 
her tootsies and gettin handed around by 
people who think Bob Fosse is groovy.
"42nd Street": They can't dance, don't make 
em.
"A Chorus Line": Even after I named it the 
best horror film of 1985, they kept hiring 
emotionally disturbed New York actors and 
actresses, forcin em to spill their guts on­
stage and confess they're homosexuals and 
hate their parents, and then dancin their little 
hearts out in THE SHOW THAT REFUSES 
TO GO AWAY.
"Big River": It is.
"Cats"; Needs a litter box.
"You Never Can Tell": Yes you can.
"Mummenschanz": There are only two 
kinds of people in the world — those that 
hate mime and liars.
And finally — da da! — "Oh, Calcutta": 
Yes, it's true, these people are still takin 
their clothes off after 20 years and doing 
jokes from "The Dean Martin Show." Please 
exterminate them immediately, Ed, so we 
can get back to the serious business of watch­
ing "Vampire Play girls" on 42nd Street 
where it belongs.
Speaking of extermination, "Trick or 
Treat" is one of the finest dead-high-school- 
kid flicks of the year, even though the title 
smells. Basically what we got is a story 
about how a metalhead rock star dies and 
then comes back to life to jump out of kids' 
stereos, take over their minds, wreck their 
rooms when their mothers aren't lookin, kill 
all the jocks and their crudhead girlfriends, 
and return to the high school that EX­
CLUDED HIM so he can jump up onstage, 
laser the entire high school to death with his 
guitar, pop the heads off some rattlesnakes, 
and try to get some local airplay. Course, he 
turns out to be your typical self-destructive 
rock personality: HE LASERS HIS OWN 
DRUMMER IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
The Original Hot Dog Shop
Sun - Thurs 
Fri - Sat9 am - 4:30 am 9 am - 6 am--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------^ ^ ------ ---------------------
30* offSoup of the Day
3 varieties of soup to choose from
offer expires Nov. 1 4, 1986
Cheeseburger Platter
includes: Cheeseburger, Fries
and Small Coke 
only $299
offer expires Nov. 14r 1986
We feature GM cars like this Chevy Chevette.
Thanksgiving Break Rate
Make your break in a car from 
National. You can rent a car if 
you're 18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current student 
I.D. and a cash deposit. Stop by 
and fill out a short cash qualifi­
cation form at least 24-hours in 
advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Non-dtscountable rate applies to Cheiy Chevette or simil«r->i:e car and i< subject to change withr’ notice Kales slightly lower for drive’ jrerZS. ipei i/ic cars subject to availability. Certain daily mini mums apply.Kate available from noon Wednesday,November 2b tn Monday. December I.Call for detail*.
$2495PER DAY 
WEEKENDS 
100 miles per day included. Additional mileage 15« per mile.
a National Car Rental
261-5500
682-1444
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.®
434 Boulevard of the Allies 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)
SONG!
^Here's one for the Baptists, provin that 
these Ozzy Osbourne perverts DO take over 
the minds and bodies of our American young 
people. In fact, Ozzy is IN THE MOVIE, as 
the Rev. Aaron Gilstrom, preachin about 
how rock music turns you into a pervert. 
Gene Simmons is in it, too, for about 15 
seconds, and if you have any doubts about it, 
just listen to this:
It’s directed by Terry The Toad (remember? 
"American Graffiti"?), and the man is a head- 
bashin fool.
Four breasts, including two stunt breasts. 
Eight dead bodies. Three motor vehicle 
chases, with crashes, bums, explosions, 
river dive. A 64 on the Vomit Meter. Snake- 
head biting. Rock-star flushing. Cafeteria 
chocolate-milk Fu. Pioneer Fu. Sansui Fu. 
Fisher Fu. Guitar Fu. Excellent tunes by 
Fastway, Only Child, See Jane Run and 
Whodini. Drive-In Academy Award nomin­
ations for Tony Fields, as Sammi Curr the 
dead rocker, for puttin on mad-dog leper-face 
makeup and slimin the high school and 
screamin "No wimps! No false metal!"; 
Marc Price, as the kid who communicates 
with Sammi Curr by playin his records back­
wards; Doug Savant, as the campus goon 
who almost gets a drill press though his 
eyeball, then gets exploded by the Metal 
King; Ozzy, as the TV preacher, for his crit­
ique of the albums "Torture's Too Kind" and 
"Do It Like a Dog"; Elise Richards, for hav- 
in lakeside devil-dragon metalhead sex with a 
ghost and gettin her ear turned to green goo 
by a Sony Walkman; and Charles Martin 
Smith, aka Terry the Toad. Four stars.
Video Release of the Week:
"Married Too Young" (1953): This one is 
the "Reefer Madness" of teen-age dating, 
starring the weenie Harold Lloyd Jr. as a teen­
ager who falls in love with the shining Hana 
Lund, gets hot with her one night on Lovers 
Lane, and ends up gettin a quickie marriage 
license because they JUST CAN'T WAIT. 
Pretty soon they got bills to pay, time- 
payment furniture, and parents that want em 
to know how sick they are for being married. 
It's a screamer, specially when Harold gets 
so desparate that he agrees to — oh my God! 
not that! — FILE OFF SOME NUMBERS 
ON A STOLEN CAR. Highlight is when 
the judge brings the parent into his court­
room, points at em, and says, "You call 
yourself mothers! Fathers! A giraffe in a zoo 
takes better care of its young! Home is 
where the heart is!" Four-star "wild-youth" 
flick.
Joe Bob says check em out.
Ticket Price: $6.50 
Available a! Mosque Box Office or at Door. 
Info: Call 621-3333

---------------------------------------------------

November 18,1986—The Tartan ftnge D9
I,. and a reader asks “what exactly is a wangdoodle?”
L JOE BOB BRIGGS 
brive-ln Movie Critic
Communist Alert! The Waialee Drive-In in 
Honolulu, owned by fromer U.S. Senator 
Hiram L- F°ng’ Just got converted into a 
Lying range. The tees are set up 270 yards 
E-oni the screen, and the golfers try to HIT 
Ujg SCREEN for a buck fifty a bucket. 
Le're talkin some slick High-wayans. To 
Hiscuss the meaning of life with Joe Bob, or 
i0 get his "We Are the Weird" newsletter or 
find out how to vote in the Drive-In 
kcademy Awards, write Joe Bob Briggs, 
P.O. Box 33, Dallas, Texas 75221.
DEAR JOE BOB: As producer of "Reform 
School Girls" I would like to thank you for 
four excellent (and perceptive) review of our
bicture.
I However, I need to correct the misinformed 
Lisguided?) "inside skinny" you apparently 
deceived reguarding the ommited fight scene 
between Charlie (Wendy O. Williams) and 
[Warden Sutter (Sybil Danning).
I The scene was NOT dropped due to lack of 
Cooperation on the part of Wendy O. In fact, 
¡Wendy, always the beautiful trooper, was 
bager to perform the scene to the director's 
specifications. No one was more disappoint­
ed than Ms. Williams at the loss of the 
kcene due to creative reasons.
Furthermore, the ending of our film (bad 
birl Charlie's undoing the evil matron Edna) 
(was designed from the beginning to feature 
¡the gifted abilities of our main stars, Wendy
0. and Pat Ast. Both ladies delivered in 
spades.Wend'swindow-smashingrooftop-rid- 
ing was an enhancement to that ending, 
NOT a replacement for the wholly unneces­
sary fight scene that was dropped.
I would appreciate it if you would include 
this information in your next syndicated 
column in order to set the record straight. 
-JACK CUMMINS, HOLLYWOOD,
CALIF.
DEAR JACK: No catfight? No trailer- 
pouting? No "you'll-never-work-in-this-town- 
again"ing? What are you guys DOING out 
there, becomin human BEINS?
DEAR JOE BOB: I had open-heart surgery 
last year and the doctors tell me that I only 
have 30 or 40 more years to live. Before I 
die I really need to know:
—What is the true meaning of human 
existence?
—What exactly is a "whangdoodle"?
—Whatever happened to Bebe Rebozo? 
Thanks for your help & inspiration. — 
DEWEY CARTER, BOULDER, COLO.
DEAR DEWEY: He mistook his rebozo 
for his whangdoodle and learned the meaning 
of a slow, nasty death.
DEAR JOE BOB: What's the scientific 
way to tell when a TV commercial is dumb? 
Media experts use Brumbaugh's Dictum, 
which states, "A TV commercial shall be 
considered 'real, real dumb' when it's even 
dumber than the TV program." Not many 
commercials qualify, but these do:
1) A clear and undeniable link is estab­
lished between milk and roller-skating.
2) Wilford Brimley sits by the fire and 
imparts a bit of folklore about airline sched­
uling.
3) A sleazy, MTV-style video fills the 
screen. A broken-down rock group moans, 
"The heartbeat of America. Whoo-hoo." Yes, 
Chevrolet has discovered glitz!
4) Check out that Army helicopter! Wow! 
You just look at something and the gun 
points by itself! Zowie! Then, you’re ready 
to kill! Whoa!
5) Phillips Petroleum wants to save the en­
vironment. They invented a plastic gizmo, 
see, to make everything O.K. I mean, we're 
talking MAJOR COMMITMENT here.
Decorating - Tuesday, December 2 at 4:00 PM.
Judging - Wednesday, December 3 at 12:00 Noon
Reserve Your Tree now by contacting Marcia at the 
Skibo Information Desk, x2107, no later than 
December 1.
Two prizes will be awarded on the basis of 
creativity, ingenuity and visual impression.
Limited number of trees.
Ozzy, Tony Fields and Gene Simmons conjugating Latin verbs in Trick or Treat
6) Jack In The Box presents an entire 
commercial consisting of a guy talking with 
his mouth full.
7) Hal Holbrook says that you are what 
you drive and he's a Buick. — BOOB TUBE 
BOB, DALLAS
DEAR BOOB TUBE: My favorite is the 
lady executive, dressed like the witch of 
Endorf, who leaps over janitor's equipment 
in her high heels in slow motion so she can 
say "What if?"
They don't show the rest of it, which is 
when she says "What if I broke a heel that 
way?"
DEAR JOE BOB: No, I am not 
DESPARATE, but yes I am suffering from 
TERMINAL BOREDOM. Because I do 
desire to be rescued from the above- 
mentioned condition I have decided to 
ACCEPT your offer. I am not sure what 
being your next eX-wife entails but if it 
includes dastardly and dispicable I'm up for 
it.
Sincerity, BOBBIE PHILPOTT, SAN 
RAFAEL, CALIF.
DEAR BOBBIE: Here’s just one hint: it 
includes the wearing of earth shoes, 24-hour - 
bowling, and lots of daytime TV.

---------------------------------------------------

Problem
'ìSZ
Is your future going 
to include all these?
• immediate responsibility
• technical challenges with real world applications
• state-of-the-art resources
• a cutting-edge environment
• dynamic colleagues thriving on teamwork
We have just 
described the unique 
opportunity a few 
analytically oriented 
individuals are going 
to find at J.P Morgan 
in New York City. If 
you have a BA, MA, 
MS, or PhD in a quan­
titative field and a 
professional attitude 
about creativity and 
hard work, we want to 
tell you more about 
what we can offer you.
J.P Morgan is a 
leading financial 
institution that is a 
major factor in trans­
forming global mar­
kets with state-of-the- 
art technologies and 
talented people. Our 
standards are very 
high, but that makes
Morgan an even more 
attractive place for 
the few who thrive 
on responsibility, feed 
on challenge, and 
are eager to put their 
superior education 
to work. Now.
Think about it. If 
you don’t have the 
patience to wait 
around for things to 
happen to you, come 
to our information 
session and talk to 
some people on the 
team you could join at 
J.P Morgan.
Wednesday, Nov. 19 
Skibo
Room 12—7:00 pm
J.B Morgan

---------------------------------------------------

November 18, 1986—The Tartan—Page Dll (
%
Classifieds
Study Medical Venipuncture at
phlebotomy Training Center. Inexpensive 
express course with on the job hospital 
practice (state licensed), call 521-7334 
Student Papers, Resumes and Cover 
Letters. Two word processors for prompt 
service. Work picked up or returned to 
Oakland Mondays and Thursdays. Call for 
details. Betty-Seton Secretarial Service 793- 
5804.
Efficiency For Rent Spacious, quiet 
and comfortable. Near University. $260 
includes heat and water. Pat 521-4363
evenings.
Rap-gram songs 421-2323.
Full-Time Position for LISP 
programmer in exciting AI-Training Start- 
Up. We are developing state of the art 
training materials for expert system. 
Knowledge of expert systems preferred but 
not mandatory. Must begin immediately. 
Salary negotiable. Call: 441-8949.Word Processing Service-IBM 
Displaywrite, resumes, cover letters, 
termpapers, dissertations, thesis. North 
Hills, 935-6231. Call after 1:30 p.m.
Get the Latest Haircut Free! Models 
needed for haircutting workshop at Shadyside 
Hair Salon. Sunday November 16th. Call 
682-4063.
Banners For All Occasions... Games, 
parties, graduation, homecoming. Same day 
service. Nationwide delivery. Low prices 
$4/ft. Call Sign Express 264-7577.
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 
through the U.S. Government? Get the facts 
today! Cal 1-312-742-1142 ext. 3401-A. 
Research Papers: 15278 Available!
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll-Free Hot- 
Line: 800-351-0222. Ext. 33. Visa/MC or 
COD.
Word Processing by professional typist- 
discount to college students- will pick up 
and deliver- 24 hour answering center- call 
653-2426.
Young Attorney with business 
experience, management skills, capital, and 
an entrepeneurial spirit desires a partnership 
with individual(s) possesing a marketable 
idea. I am tired of creating wealth for others. 
Lets create wealth together. Send 
information to: A. Vann, 5740 Howe Street, 
Apt #2, Pittsburgh, PA 15232.
Permanent___Hair___Removal- Jane
Maizlech and Associates Registered 
Electrologists, Recommended by physicians, 
355 Fifth Ave. (Downtown) 642-4451, 3347 
Forbes Ave.(Oakland) 687-3993. Facials- 
Manicures- Pedicures- Waxing.
$60.00 Per Hundred Paid for remailing 
letters from home! Send self-addressed, 
stamped envelope for envelope for 
information/application. Associates, Box 95-
B, Roselle, N.J. 07203.
Study Medical Venipunctures at 
Phlebotomy' Training Center. Inexpensive 
express course with on the job hospital 
practice. State licensed. Call 521-7334. 
Wanted: school representative for
collegiate sporting company. Great pay, call 
collect 1-813-346-2009.Local woman needs student for light 
housekeeping, driving. Monday „ thru 
Thursday, flexible hours. Contact Career
Services & Placement x2064.
Fishbone mix humor and social criticism
The Tartan wishes to apologize 
for the omission of classified 
ads from last week's issue and 
for any inconvenience this may 
have caused. The involved ads 
are being run this week.
By DAN WEIR
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
Fishbone 
In Your Face 
Columbia
Fishbone's first major release is a tough act 
to follow. The Los Angeles band deftly 
mixed hot funk, reggae and jazz in the 
spastic tootsie-roll EP that is Fishbone 
(1985). Their latest venture, In Your Face, 
is a strong follow-up. Early Fishbone 
featured tongue-in-cheek wit in titles like 
"Ugly", "Voyage to the Land of the Freeze- 
Dried Godzilla Farts", and the romping 
"Lyin' Ass Bitch." In Your Face jibes 
equally well.
The new album, moreso than the first, 
strikes a balance between smart-ass humor
Record Reviews
and social criticism. A perfect example is 
in the haunting "Post Cold War Politics." 
A roomful of people laugh hysterically over 
a drunken "Rainy Day Women" trombone. 
The resulting biting satire is classic 
Fishbone, in league with the best moments 
of Fishbone. 1985's "Party at Ground Zero" 
is a lesson in how to make political pastry: 
spice an enticing hook with a pointed finger. 
The recipe works well in In Your Face for 
the most part, though "Knock It"- a salute 
to the assexual affair, is a dumb joke to 
begin with and makes for a lame four-minute 
dissertation. I venture to say that such 
instances of toilet humor are responsible for 
the parental advisory for "explicit lyrics" on
the jacket. When will these people realize; 
the quickest way to sell an album is to label 
it risque? Bogus.
Musically, In Your Face sticks to earlier 
stuff. Fishbone is a gifted dance band. No 
party will die with In Your Face spinning. 
"A Selection" is a mover, as is the current 
single, "I Wish I Had a Date." "Movement 
in the Light" sounds a lot like Earth, Wind 
and Fire - soulful harmonies grooving on a 
lilting melody.
Get In Your Face, but try to lay your hands 
on Fishbone, as well. You may have 
trouble, but try Jim's Records, they're likely 
to have it.
RANDOM NOTES:
Adrian Belew, Desire Caught by the Tail: 
A real departure from The Last Rhinocerous 
and Twang Bar King. Completely 
instrumental. Real experimental; even by 
late King Crimson standards. Not music to 
study by. Billy Idol suffers from a rare 
neurosis. He suffers from acute Elvis 
Presley Idol Worship. Billy Idle. Its hard not 
to laugh as he growls,"Have mercy baby," 
over a female backdrop. Is he serious? New 
Bon Jovi: you give music a bad name... 
Housemartins London O Hull Four 
spritely pop and fresh lyrics make for 
addictive, no-additive dance numbers. This 
guy sounds like a groggy Glen Tilbrook, 
who sounds like a pre-pubescent Paul 
McCartney. "Happy Hour Again" is a 
grabber. Can they keep it up?
Hmm...Pete Townshend gives a great 
reading of the English Beat's "Save it For 
Later" on Pete Townshend's Deep End
- don't try looking for an album, its limited 
to promotional discs, but can it be seen on 
the Deep End video.
Attention: CMU Artists and Craftpersons
An arts and crafts sale will be held in Skibo Lobby on December 2, 3, and 4 for the 
Christmas season. If you would like to sell your work, please fill out the form 
below and return it to the Skibo Information Desk by November 28.
—Sponsored by Student Activities
i----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
i
i Return by November 28 I
i
Name-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
i i
Phone __________________________ Address----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
i i
i
| Craft-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- \
i i
i
Table(s) # _________________________________________Chair(s) # ----------------------------------------------------------- |

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—November 18, 1986
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm 
on Monday, December 3, in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet 
with the president should telephone his 
secretary at 268-2200 to set up an 
appoinment.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For 
more information call 681-3181.
Painting of Industry Exhibition by 
Cynthia F. Cooley, at the Associated Artists 
of Pittsburgh Gallery, Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts. Exhibition begins November 21 
and continues through December 23. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday and 1 pm to 5 pm, 
Sunday.Buhl Science Center. Laserium. 
Journey to an energetic and colorful world 
where blazing lights and magical images 
glow and gyrate to music by rock's most 
spectacular artists in Laserium, presented 
live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, 
Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, 
Saturday. For current concerts call 321- 
5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. 
For more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Corner," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings - new ones hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images - let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"Foucault Pendulum,” displays proof of the 
Earth's rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"The Right Moves," You're the star 
performer in Buhl's new action-packed 
exhibit exploring the body in motion! 
Exciting hands-on activities — Momentum 
machine, Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - 
let visitors investigate the mechanics of 
motion "step by step." Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl 
tradition that has delighted visitors for 
generations! Trains, boats and dozens of 
tiny animations keep audiences spellbound! 
This season’s exhibit sets the turn of the 
century countryside in each of the four 
seasons ~ don't miss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's 
Theatre. A Christmas Carol. Scrooge, 
Tiny Tim, Bob Cratchit and a host of 
Ghosts tread across the stage in this holiday 
favorite! Join in the good cheer and warmth 
of diaries Dicken's most famous tale at 11 
am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, 
Sundays, from November 22 through 
December 28.___________________________The Connection
for GAY MEN(412) 976-5000
Talk to up to 8 guys—LIVE— 
not a recording but a party line!!! 
Pittsburgh's fastest way to m*«t 
_______Ii 95 charq« / 4 minute« / no minors
Tuesday18 Movies
Thoroughly Modern Millie, starring 
Julie Andrews, Mary Tyler Moore and Carol 
Channing. Entertaining musical set in the 
1920's. Elmer Bernstein won an Oscar for 
his score. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Architecture Lecture. Adele 
Nauude Santos, chairman, Dept, of 
Architecture, University of Pennsylvania, 
speaks at 8 pm in Weh 7500.
Dept. of Chemical Engineering
Seminar. Dr. Steven E. Schwartz, 
Brookhaven National Laboratory, speaks on 
"Mass Transport and Aqueous-phase
Reactions of S02 and N02 Pertinent to Acid 
Deposition" at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee 
and doughnuts are served at 10:45 am in the 
conference room, DH 1102.Dept. of Chemistry Colloquium.
Dr. Kenneth Suslick, University of Illinois, 
Urbana-Champaign, speaks on "New 
Synthetic Analogs of Heme Proteins" at 4 
pm in the MI conference room. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 3:30 pm.
Workshops
Resume Writing. Get your resume off 
the ground by learning some basic guide 
lines. See examples and conduct a resume 
critique as if you were the personnel officer 
at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an 
English Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood 
dining hall.
Wednesday
Movies
Salvador, starring James Woods and James 
Belushi. Fascinating film about a photo 
journalist and his unemployed buddy who 
travel to El Salvador in the early 1980's to 
hang out, but eventually get drawn into the 
political turmoil. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Der Blaue Engle, sponsored by Modem 
Languages Dept.. Adamson Wing, BH at 7 
pm. Admission is free.
On the Waterfront, shown at Scotland 
Yard at 9 pm and 11 pm.
Lectures
Dept. of Architecture Seminar.
Omer Akin speaks on "Design Studio in 
China" at 12:30 pm in CFA 206.
Workshops
On-Site Visits. . You've received an 
invitation to visit the company for a second 
interview. We'll discuss the dynamics of 
this visit: How to prepare for it; what may 
occur during the visit and what may be 
expected of you at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 
12.
Music
Dept. of Music Junior Recital.
Mark Custer III, trumpet, performs at 8 pm 
in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Joan Merrigan in concert, sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Opera Theater and the Lillian 
S. McCaffrey Foundation. Experience an 
unforgettable evening of Irish song, 
romantic opera, thrilling dance and delightful
entertainment, performed by Ireland’s most 
versatile entertainer at 8 pm in the Carnegie 
Music Hall. For ticket information call 391-
0722.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Thursday20 Movies
Lolita, starring James Mason, Sue Lyon, 
Peter Sellers and Shelley Winters. Excellent 
version of Vladimir Nabokov's satire on 
American mores as a college professor 
becomes infatuated with a teen-age girl. 
Kubrick at his best. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Lion in Winter, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 
pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar.
Dr. Jerry D. Glickson, Johns Hopkins 
University, School of Medicine, speaks on 
"In Vivo NMR Studies of Tumors" at 12:30 
pm in DH 1102. A light lunch is served at 
noon prior to the seminar and a question-and- 
answer session follows.
Dept. of Psychology Colloquium. 
Dr. John Black, Yale University, speaks on 
"Changes in Knowledge Representation 
With Increasing Expertise in Using 
Computers" at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, 
BH 135. Coffee is served before the lecture 
in the Psychology lounge, BH 336-D.
Dept. of Chemistry Colloquium.
Dr. Terry Collins, California Institute of 
Technology, speaks on "Novel High 
Oxidation State Inorganic Chemistry" at 4 
pm in the MI conference room. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 3:30 pm.
Carnegie Mellon Writer's Guild 
presents a reading at 7 pm at Forbes Gallery.
Workshops
How to Make the Most of Your Summer. Find answers to questions like: 
How do I look for a summer job? What are 
some of the avenues I should pursue? How 
do I find out what's "out there?" and Who do 
I market myself to? at 11:30 am in Skibo 
room 12.
Music
Dept. of Music Jazz Concert.
Carnegie Mellon Jazz Band, directed by 
Randy Purcell, performs at 7:30 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Friday
¦ Movies
An Evening of Laurel and Hardy 
Short Films. The fabulous comedy team 
in six of their great classic films. All brand 
new 35mm prints. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Father. An early film by Szabo, this is a 
story of a boy who idolizes the memory of 
his dead father. In his own imagination, 
Tako is the son of a glorious war hero. Set 
in the years after World War II, this film 
could easily parallel the lives of many 
Hungarians of Szabo's generation. The
Carnegie Museum of Art at 8 pm 
Admission $3.
The Magnificent Seven, sponsored bv 
AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 
11pm. Admission $1.
Special Events
Anne Svedberg, voice, performs at 10 
pm in Scotland Yard.
Saturday22 Movies
Heartburn, starring Jack Nicholson and 
Meryl Streep. Nora Ephron's insightful 
novel has been turned into a detailed, often 
comic, look at an upper-middle-class 
marriage. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Gorky Park, sponsored by SDC Films. 
DH at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $1.
Music
Dept, of Music Concert. Carnegie 
Mellon Chorus and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia 
perform at 8 pm in the Calvary Episcopal 
Church, Shady Avenue, Shadyside.
Special Events
Patrick Dominguez, folk guitar, 
performs at 10 pm at Scotland Yard.
Sunday23 Movies
The Thin Man, starring William Powell, 
Myma Loy and Asta. The Dashiell 
Hammett story becomes the first in a long 
line of fast, funny and classy adventures of 
Nick and Nora Charles. They don't make 
movies any better than this one. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Johnny Dangerously, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Music
Dept, of Music Concert. Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic with guest conductor, 
Samuel Jones, performs at 8 pm in the 
Carnegie Music Hall’, Forbes Avenue, 
Oakland.
Monday
'I/I/.¡JL Movies
Pink Floyd-The Wall, starring Bob 
Geldof, Christine Hargreaves, James 
Laurenson and Bob Hoskins. A film version 
of a Pink Floyd rock album about the 
mental breakdown of a rockstar. Some 
striking visuals. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
