BASE BALL 
TECH VS. KISKI 
Tech Field Saturday
INTER SCHOOL 
MEET 
FRIDAY, APRIL 26
¦YOL. XII. NO. 28CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAAPRIL 24, 1918
fOUR SCHOOLS STUDENT COUNCIL HOLDS VERY IMPORTANT MEETING
Ellerton Ejected President by 
Unanimous Vote
REPORT ON HANDBOOK
A meeting of the Four Schools Stu­
dent Council was held last Monday 
evening. Business of considerable im­
portance was carried out, including 
the election of the president for the 
Tear 1918-19.
The meeting was called to order by 
President Todd and a report on the 
.Student Handbook for next year was 
rendered by W. V. Wolfe, chairman of 
the committee for the revision of that 
¦hook. Mr. Wolfe’s report was thor­
ough in every detail. He announced 
that the book would be more complete 
than before and that it has been re­
vised considerably. It Will be edited, 
.published and distributed among the 
incoming “Fresh” next fall and will 
prove of valuable assistance to them 
in that it .will contain all the songs 
and yells, and latest Plebe regulations, 
.although it is conservative in nature, 
i The candidates for the office of pres­
ident were present and were inter­
viewed' by the ' Council. After this 
procedure was through, the regular 
election was held and George Ellerton, 
Jr., was announced elected president 
for the coming year by a unanimous 
vote. Ellerton is at present pursuing 
the course in Mechanical Engineering 
and is a member of the Junior Class. 
In selecting him for this office, the 
'Council probably chose one of the most 
active men at Tech and a true Car­
negie man. He has won his letter in 
track the past two years and holds the 
captaincy this year; he is a member 
of the Science Senate, a member of the 
Board of Control and has been recently 
appointed treasurer of the Board of 
Control and the Student Activities 
Board.
KISKI DEFEATS TECH 
IN FIRST GAME OF YEAR
DRAMATIC STUDENTS MILITARY RALL PROVES 
ENTERTAIN SOCIETY MOST ENJOYABLE AFFAIR
Triple Bill Produced Before Committee Wishes to Thank
ENLISTED MEN AT TECH TO GIVE MUSICAL PROGRAM AT SYRIA
CANDIDATES WANTED 
FOR THE TARTAN
*
til *'
---------- *Editorial and Business Staff. * 
The Tartan is an all-school,ac- .*
* tivity—any student, day or night, 4» 
is eligible. If you can’t get into *
? athletics, do your bit for Tech in * 
4* this way! Report Thursday at *
? 5 p. m., Tartan Office, Room 162 »1« 
Design Building.
* * 
******* A ******** *
Appreciative Audience
DORMS TO HOLD SECOND 
DANCE IN UNION, MAY 3
Ticket Sale Limited and Only 
Through Dorm Members
The Men’s Dormitories will hold 
their second dance of the year on May 
3, 1918, at the Union. Nirella’s Or­
chestra will furnish the music and the 
committee has many other attractions 
which will be foreclosed at the dance. 
The assessment for Dorm members is 
75c per couple and for others $1.00 
per couple. Those not. living in the 
dormitories must secure tickets 
through Dorm members, and 
each member will only be allowed one 
extra ticket. ; All . those that wer-e 
present at our last Thanksgiving Ball 
can not afford to miss this opportunity 
of attending the season's final affair.
The committee:
H. GELLIN, West Dorm. 
YERGEY, East Dorm. 
JOHNSON, South Dorm.
MEN FOR SUMMER CAMP 
WILL LEAVE MAY FIRST
I Kiski defeated the Tech Varsity on 
the former’s diamond at Saltsburg, to 
t^ie tune of 4 to 2, Saturday. The 
game was the first of -the season for 
both teams and considering this, the 
•work of Hill on the mound for the 
Prep team was exceptional. He al­
lowed hut one hit and struck out nine­
teen Tech batters. He was an un- 
solvable problem throughout the game.
The Tech team did1 not show very 
well. Doherty and Gretzler played con­
sistently, but* their greener teammates 
did not play up to the form exhibited 
on the home field in practice, perhaps 
because of nervousness over their 
initial effort. Gretzler held Kiski 
scoreless for six innings, but the Kiski 
team touched him up for two runs 
in‘both the seventh and ninth frames. 
He .only.,allowed five hits, but several 
of these were bunched.
Hill and Davies-were the individual 
(Continued on Page Two.)
On Wednesday evening. April 17, 
the Department of Dramatic Arts en­
tertained the members of the Eng­
lish Folk Dance Society with a 
triple bill including two one-act 
plays/ “Makeshifts” by Gertrude Rob­
bins, "Lonesome-like” by Brighouse 
and an English Folk Ballet arranged 
and produced by Mr. Theodore Vieh- 
man, a senior in this department, who! 
makes grateful acknowledgement to 
Mr. Cecil Sharp of London, collector 
of the folk dances and music on 
which the ballet is built and who in­
troduced this naive art in this city.
Naturally to this audience, the bal­
let was the great interest. The 
idea is novel and was carried out 
with skill and proved to be one of 
the pleasant things that the depart­
ment of drama has presented this 
season; it was gay, colorful and joy­
ful, just what is so much needed in 
these grey days,’ when gloom per­
vades the very air. The ballet affords 
a demonstration of Morris and plain 
country dancing, opening with the 
“Morris Processional” which brought 
all the dancers on the stage. This 
was followed by a group of folk 
dances, including “Peascods,” “Sell- 
engerts Round,” “Merry Conceit.”
All Who Assisted
The Tech Band wishes to express 
its appreciation of the assistance of 
those who contributed to the suc­
cess of the Military Ball.
The liberal contribution of the 
members of the Board of Trustees, 
the hearty co-operation of the Facul­
ty and Staff and the splendid spirit 
of the students which aided in the 
realization of our plans. There was 
a record-breaking attendance and net 
receipts amounting to $700.00 which 
testifies to the earnest labors of all 
who worked for the cause. There 
were many helpers, those who assist­
ed the committee from the C. I. T. 
Auxiliary and likewise those who 
aided in the publicity campaign— 
the makers of posters and sellers of 
tickets and others.
Zillah,'the Rominy Chi, Miss Rick­
ards, and the Morris Dancers, add­
ed much to the pleasure of the even­
ing. The popular war songs, sung 
with splendid spirit and quality by 
Miss Vera Kaighn and the Pitts­
burgh Quartet, just thrilled the heart. 
For . this particular treat thanks is. 
due to Mr. Alexander Dunbar.
Florists and friends decorated 
many boxes of beautiful flowers, the 
sale of which by our charming aides 
netted a tidy sum. But what would 
we have done without Major Lyle?
***************** 
* *
* Dean Connelley desires all stu- ?
* dents of the School of Applied In- *
* dustries In the graduating class- *
* es of boith the day and night *
* courses to attend an important *
* meeting in Room 104 Industries *1•
* Building on Thursday evening, *
* April 25, at 8:00 o’clock. The *
* purpose of the meeting is to make *
* arrangements for the Commence- *
* ment on May 24, 191S. It is iin- *
* parative that every man be. pres-’ *
* enfc. *
*****************
OPENING OF DASEDALL 
SEASON ON HOME GROUND
Good Crowd Needed to Help 
Tech Beat Kiski
Among the most interesting, judging Whereas, the pictures were of partlc- 
from prolonged applause, were the uj.u. interest to us because of of his 
‘Morris Gigue, ’ danced by Miss familiarity of the scenes portrayed 
Mary Riccards and Mr. Theodore joy of the evening was the auc-
The first game of the season on the 
home grounds will be played Saturday 
against Kiski, who beat Tech at Ivlski 
last Saturday. With a good field, 
fair day, and some real cheering, such 
as we used to hear at opening games, 
it should be,a tight game, but Manager 
Todd is confident chat we will win. 
Every one should turn out to give the 
team a good send-off on its schedule. 
Time as usual—p. m.
Another quota of men to attend an 
O. T. C. this summer lias been asked 
of Tech.; These men will be sent to 
camp on May 15, and will be given a 
three-month intensive training course 
in military tactics.
This call is for all the men that the 
military authorities can recommend. 
These selections will bqgin at once, 
the men being chosen on their military 
aptitude and general qualifications. 
Men from all companies are eligible.
For those men who would neces­
sarily miss examination if they left 
school to go to camp in May, special 
arrangements are being made. Those 
men will probably have their examin­
ations deferred until fall; or, if there 
is time, they will be given a special 
examination in the subjects in • which 
they have not a standing credit grade. 
Each applicant should *see ; that his> 
company commander knows of his de­
sire to be selected for thé O. T. C.
Viehman, “The Sword Dance” and 
“Blue-Eyed Stranger” (both Morris), 
done by the men and the “Robin o’ 
the Wode” grotesque, which afforded 
a great deal of amusement. Though 
these dances, a story is woven, 
which was cleverly mimed, adding 
greatly to the interest. The costum­
ing and makeup was in several in­
stances quite remarkable and excit­
ed favorable comment. It is to be 
hoped the success of his first ven­
ture into this interesting realm .of. 
entertainment will encourage Mr.
(Continued on Page Four.)
TEAM LEAVES ON TRIP 
PLAYS AT PENN STATE
The Tech baseball team left Monday 
afternoon at 3:30 o’clock, via the 
Pennsylvania Railroad, for Penn State, 
where they played Tuesday. The oc­
casion was Commencement Day, which 
Penn ¡State held earlier than usual 
this ! year on account of war condi-' 
tions.
Mr. Eyman was in- charge of the 
squad, as Mr. McCullough was forced 
to remain in Pittsburgh on account of 
the serious illness of his brother.
The lineup:
Doherty.......................................................s. s.
Gretzler........................................................... p.
Stevenson..................................................1 b.
Fulton ......................................................... 2 b.
Lynn ..............................................................3 b.
Gates ;............................................................c. f.
Zehfus............................................................... c.
Hoban, Maurer...................................... r. f.
Hermann..................................................... 1. f.
The team is to return today.
TECH SOLDIERS TO GET 
UNIFORMS NEXT YEAR
In accordance with the U. S. R. O. 
T. C. regulations, each man in Tech 
will be furnished with a complete 
equipment, consisting of:
1 olive-drab, woolen uniform,
1 olive-drap cap,
1 pair canvas leggings,
1 set hat and collar ormanents,
1 pair shoes.
This equipment will not be distrib­
uted this year, since the year is so far 
advanced, and since woolen uniforms 
would be uncomfortable in warm 
•weather.
At the beginning of next year, how­
ever, each man will be given a com­
plete equipment.
SOLDIERS ARE WELCOME 
AT MENORAH MEETINGS
FORMER M. M. C. S, GIRL 
WEDS TECH GRADUATE
COSGROVE AND TURNOCK 
CHOSEN FOR FIRST CAMP
tion sale of the plants and ilowers.
Hoping you our guests, friends and 
aides had a jolly evening, we send 
your our greetings and thanks in 
which Mrs. Hamerschlag joins us on 
behalf of the C. I. T. Auxiliary.
Committee—Mrs. A. A. Hamer­
schlag, adviser; S. Alton Smith, 
chairman; Miss Ellen Crowe, Miss 
Anna McCandless, Joe. S. Rowe, 
Roger B. Johnson, treasurer.
The Military Ball lias become a part 
• (Continued on Page Two.)
ALL SCHOOL EVENTS TO 
DE UNIFORM AFFAIRS
DRAMA STUDENTS APPEAR 
AT NIXON IN TWO PLAYS
The selection of the first two men 
to go from Tech to an O. T. C. has 
been made, and the choice has fallen 
Cosgrove and Turnock, Science 
Seniors. These men were selected 
from the upper ten of their class.
Turnock is a Senior Chemical, and 
has been in Tech but one year, orig­
inally coming from the University of 
Wisconsin.
Cosgrove is a Commercial, and 
probably stands highest in Ills class in 
his studies. He is a Tau Beta Pi man, 
and has won his letter In baseball.
Both of these men were well liked 
on the campus and they will surely 
represent Tech well in their new ven­
ture.
MAY FESTIVAL PLANS 
NEARING COMPLETION
Margaret Morrison’s May Festival 
is only a little more than two weeks 
off. This means that while the Ath­
letic Association girls are rehearsing 
every day and are busy making cos­
tumes, all you have to do is to re­
member the date—May 17. and the 
place—rear lawn of Mellon House; and 
then—get someone else to remember. 
Twenty-five cents admission will be 
charged to defray expense of illustrat­
ed programs.
Don’t forget the afternoon of May 
17. Come out and support Tech’s May 
Festival.
The students of the Department of 
Dramatic Arts presented two plays 
last Friday afternoon at the benefit 
performance given at the Nixon The­
ater.
The performance was to stimulate 
interest in the Third Liberty Loan, 
the guest of honor being Mias Mary 
Pickford. ,
The plays presented were Theodore 
Viehman’s ballet, “Robin o’ the Wode,” 
and Brownen Crubb’s playlet, “After 
the War.” Both of these plays have 
been given several times in the Little 
Theater.
“Robin o’ the Wode” was the second 
number on the program and immedi­
ately registered at hit, the colors, 
dances, and music being just the thing 
needed to fix the attention of the audi 
ence. It was interesting to note with 
what perfect precision the dances 
were executed, as the stage is so much 
larger than the Little Theater stage.
The second play, “After the War,” 
written by Brownen Chubb, was given 
with all the promptness and smooth­
ness of a professional production. 
There was almost continual laughter 
from the beginning to the final curtain,
The cast was excellent, Brownen 
Chubb as “Connie,” the Fifth Avenue 
bus driver; Veolante Bollinger, 
“Jane," editor of “The Star”; Hazel 
Beck as “Aunt Sue,” and Harold 
Munnis as “Walter,” ail gave spirited 
interpretations of their parts. The 
only possible criticism of the play 
would be that the cast did not speak 
quite loud enough, that of course being 
due to the difference in the size of the 
theater.
WORK GENERALLY GOOD 
IN 1ST BATTALION DRILL
A regular meeting of the Collegiate 
M^norah Society will be held Sunday, 
AjDril 28, 1918, at 3:00 p. m., at Temple 
Rpdef Shalom, Fifth and Morewood 
aVenues.
¡A distinguished speaker will address 
th/e audience. The shingles will be 
distributed and refreshments served.
¡All that are Interested in the Men- 
orah. are cordially invited to attend. 
A'special invitation is extended to all 
Jewish soldiers, who are taking war 
courses at Tech.
The astonishing news spread over 
Margaret Morrison at noon on Monday 
that Miss Ermal Pruyne, last year’s 
Student Government president, who 
had been visiting Fifth Avenue Hall 
for the week-end, was married. She 
left the dormitory early Monday morn­
ing with Miss Helen Bosworth, senior 
class president, and at nine-fifteen in 
the Fort Pitt Hotel, was married to 
Lieut. Arthur McGill, a Sigma Rho 
man of the 1916 class. Helen Bos­
worth, Lieut. T. Orr and a classmate 
of Mr. McGill’s were the only wit­
nesses.
Mr. and Mrs. McGill left on the nine- 
forty train to spend their honeymoon 
in New York. Lieut. McGill is sta­
tioned at Camp Lee and intends to 
leave for France in September.
FORMER INDUSTRIES 
STUDENT WEDS AT ERIE
The first of a series of battalion 
drills was held Monday afternoon. The 
battalion was formed in front of De­
sign School, and marched to Flagstaff 
Hill in column of route. The drill was ’ 
carried out in column of squads, col­
umn of platoons, and finally -column of 
companies.
As a whole, the drill was well exe­
cuted, but there is still much room for 
improvement. To be specific, In col­
umn of squads and column of platoons 
the drill was carried on in a very sol­
dierly manner, but in column of com­
panies, the work was quite ragged, es­
pecially in oblique formation. How­
ever, under the drill to be carried on 
the next few days, these, ragged spots 
will quickly wear off.
Word has beee received here of the 
marriage of H. H. Hall, a former stu­
dent of the School of Applied Indus­
tries, to Miss Ruth Womy, of Erie, Pa. 
The ceremony took place at Erie on 
t Wednesday, April 17, 1918.
Students and Other Friends 
to Have Reservations
OFFICIALS INVITED
Major Lyle wishes to compliment 
the students who attonded the Mil­
itary Ball on their smart appearauce. 
Those men who wore uniform, and it 
is to bo regretted that some did not, 
carried out the spirit of the affair, and 
their Holdlerly conduct did much to 
make the ball a success.
In this connection, an order has 
been Issued from headquarters stating 
that, in the future, students attending 
school social affairs will wear uni­
forms. These events will bear out the 
military program as well as the actual 
drill and field work.
M.M.C.S. DRAMATIC CLUB 
IN “HANSEL & GRETEL”
On Friday, May 3, at S o’clock, the 
M. M. G. S. Dramatic Club will give 
the play “Hansel and Gretel,'' In the 
Margaret Morrison gym. The part of 
Hansel will be taken by Helen Sonii 
and Gretel by Dorothy Turkle. Helen 
Clark will be witch, Margaret Hollar, 
father and Salome Stamm, mother. 
Emily Kurtz will have an aesthetic 
dance as Sandman, and twelve girls 
from the aesthatic dancing class will 
he angels. Phylis McMarlin will be 
storyteller, and eight Plebes will be 
gingerbreads and eight others, play­
mates. Afterwards there will be a 
dance in “Rec Hall.” The assessment 
will be 50 cents per person ($1 per 
couple) and the proceeds will go to 
charity. The plan is to take the play 
around to various institutions for chil­
dren later on in the year.
The soldiers taking the intensive 
special war courses here at Tech will 
endeavor to show their appreciation 
to the people of the city for the corlial 
welcome extended to them and the 
countless courtesies they have., re­
ceived during their stay here. They 
will be hosts to their many friends on 
Friday evening, May 3, at the Syria 
Mosque, when they will .present a pro­
gram on which will appear much of the 
best talent in Pittsburgh.
An idea of the program may be gath­
ered from the following, who have as­
sured the committee of their presence: 
Miss Vera Kaign, soprano of the First 
Presbyterian Church; I. K. Myers, pop­
ular baritone singer; S. Fralser, fenor 
at the Third Presbyterian Church; 
Miss Esther Havelcotte, well known 
violinist; H. H. Fleer will .be at. the 
piano. The Mozart Club of 100 voices 
will render selections. The Scotch 
'Pipe Baud and a troupe of Scotch 
dancers will take a most conspicuous 
part on the program. The Shriners’ 
Oriental Band and the Tech Military 
Band will also furnish numbers.
The success of the affair is assured 
and among the numerous guests will 
be the various city officials, including 
Mayor Babcock, Col. Brooks, U. S. A;, 
now in charge of Tech’s military pro­
gram; the administration and faculties 
of the several schools comprising the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. Re­
served seat tickets will be issued to 
the many Pittsburghers who havo en­
tertained the soldiers In their hoiiios, 
and in other ways extended many 
courtesies toward them. The studonts 
of the Institute are all invited to £t-. 
tend and as many tickets will’be is­
sued after the lists of guests havo 
boon filled, to each student as possible.«
The. M0.4quo has been donated to tho 
soldiers by tho local organization and 
all the entertainers are giving other 
services, to enable the “boys” to take 
this opportunity of expressing to tho, 
public their slhcerest appreciation.
Tho entertainment Is given under 
permission of Captaln’Hamnor Huston, 
of the 28th Sorvlco Company. Tl,io 
commiltoo which Is arranging tho af­
fair consists of Private L. H. Perry, 
chairman; Sergeant W. A. Bailey, sec­
retary; Sorgoants Wm. Montgomery 
and IT. Daniels and H. A. McCon- 
naughey.
VOCATIONAL ADVISER 
FOR GIRLS AT TECH
Miss Marion Holmes, the Employ­
ment Secretary and Vocational Ad­
viser for Girls at Tech, is now estab­
lished on the first floor of the Central 
Building,.in the first office to the right. 
Her office hours for students are on 
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, 
from 1 to 5 o’clock. Any students wish­
ing part-time work, places to earn 
room and board, summer jobs, etc., 
will do well to see Miss Holmes. For 
those who have already put in applica­
tion, Miss Holmes would like tohave 
all schedules. All girls now doing part 
time work regularly, please report the 
fact as soon as possible.
TANK HERE SATURDAY; 
WILL“ACT-UP” ON CAMPUS
There will be a demonstration, by 
an English Tank on the campus Sat­
urday, April 27. The tank will climb 
the side of the cut and will do several 
stunts in exhibition.
If the trenches are finished by Sat­
urday, the tank will demolish them. 
Many students should turn out to 
watch this modern war-horse, as the 
program as planned will be very inter­
esting and instructive.
INTER-SCHOOL MEET TO 
DE HELD ON TECH FIELD
ALL INSIGNIA MUST BE 
ON BY THURSDAY NEXT
Orders have been issued requiring 
all men to have insignia and the 
proper buttons on their uniforms by 
Thursday. Inspections will be held 
each parade and misdemeanors in 
dress and equipment will be placed on 
the offender’s record.
Y. M. C. A. WILL ELECT 
OFFICERS AT MEETING
All students of this Institution who 
are Interested in the Tech Y. M. C. A, 
are asked to be present at a meeting 
to be held at the Southern Club, 5072 
Forbes street, on Wednesday evening, 
April 24. The meeting will last from 
7 to 8 o’clock, and Is for the purpose 
6f electing officers for the 1918-1919 
Y. M. C. A. cabinet.
The Inter-School meet will be held 
Friday afternoon, April 26, on Tech 
Field. Industries and Design will then 
endeavor to wrest the supremacy for 
track and field events which Science 
has been holding, A fairly large num­
ber of entrants signed before Tuesday 
and the meet promises to be unusually 
close and interesting.
Major Lyle has consented to parade 
the battalion over the field to support, 
their respective schools at 3:30 o'clock 
Friday. This action shows how keenly 
our commandant appreciates that the 
maintenance.of athletics, of at least an 
intramural character is a function o£ 
high importance in fitting Tech men 
for the service, and it therefore be­
hooves the student body to further this 
movement either by actual particapa- 
tlon or active support, to make this 
meet an even greater success than 
formerly. It is highly probable that 
men who are able to show real pros­
pects in this meet will be taken onto 
the track squad, as there are still a 
number of opportunities for good men 
In this activity.
Coach Eyman has decided to replace 
the hammer throw in tho field events 
this spring, with tho javelin. Com­
paratively few of the men on tho squad 
havo had much experience with either 
and since tho javelin has been gaining 
in prominence during the past few 
years, this Inauguration was deemed 
advisable.

---------------------------------------------------

Page TwoTHE TARTANWednesday, April 24, 1918-
qffrg qiarlatt
.^Published every .Wednesday by Undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
.Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Yearly, $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Phone Grant 388-R.
Phone Schenley 220G-J
EDITORIAL
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Aesistant Managing Editors
C. R. Olmsted 
F. I. Smith 
School Editors 
M. M.. C. S.—Salome Stamm 
Design;—
Industrie^—W. D. Hall 
Science—
Night—Julius Foster 
Athletic Editor 
H. H. Blau 
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myler, Jr.
M. M. C. S. Assistants 
Marlon Bach
Edith Brad on 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shaffer 
Margaret Sondheim 
Helen Young 
Other Assistants 
Ellen Crowe 
J. M. Walcott 
I. Slssman
BUSINESS 
Advertising Manage*, 
Charles H. Todd 
Assistant 
M. I. Cohen 
Circulation Manager 
C. L. De Prefontainô 
Assistant 
C. J. Livingstone
TARTAN OFFICE............................................................................................Room 102, Design
Hours—2:00 to 4:00 Mon days.
4:30 to 5:00 Wednesdays and Thursdays.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for'tlie policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should De sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. • •
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postonico, Central Building, before 
noon on Mondays. 28-^g^i^
THE Y. M. C. A.
Last year very favorable results were obtained, by the Y. M. C. A. 
meetings a;id it. was hoped that their good work would be continued 
this, year on a larger scale. So liar nothing has been seen or heard 
of what they have done until we notice that a meeting will be held 
April 27, for the purpose of selecting a cabinet. The religious incen­
tives about the campus are none too good and there is plenty of work 
for a Y. M. C. A. Every school or college has a chapter that is doing 
good work and we should have ours. It’s up to each one of us to 
get out and help along. Again the girls must bo mentioned. They 
report very successful meetings of the Y. \V. C. A. Arc you going 
to let the girls do it all? Wake up men and let’s go. Be at that 
meeting and help to have a successful Y. M. C. A.
A WORD ABOUT THE GIRLS
Our co-eds have lately demonstrated their ability to do their bit 
and do it well. No one can help but admire the splendid assistance 
they are giving in the Third Liberty Loan campaign and with the sup­
port of the Student Body they will make it a brilliant success. This 
is one instance of their aggressiveness. Doubtless, innumerable 
others, may be given but the work of the Red Cross Auxiliary cannot 
be passed by. Their showing in the Women Workers Parade should 
be sufficient to convince us of their good work, but how much knit­
ting have they done and how many bandages have they made? It 
seems as though they have the boys stopped there, but still there 
comes to our attention the Y. W. C. A., the approaching May Festival, 
and the S. O. S. Club.
In view of these facts it has been suggested that the work ol! 
the next year's Thistle be turned over to the girls. Strange to say, 
they have never had a chance to put out this publication. The men 
clai.ui they are too busily engaged in drill and studies to pay the 
proper attontion to it. Why not let the girls take a hand at it? 
Undoubtedly, they cj,m do as well, il! not better than the men and will 
be glad to get the chance to show that they are fully capable of 
taking our place “at the bat.” It is hoped that this suggestion be 
camel further.
OFFICIAL N0TI6ES
NEW REGULATION CONCERNING NON-ATTENDANCE
By notion of the Adiuinistrntivo Council April 18th, and effective 
April 23rd, any male student taking a day course who is absent from 
classes or military drill fifteen days without filing a notice in his 
Dean’s Office before the expiration of the fifteenth day, will be auto­
matically dropped from the rolls of the lnstituto.
A. W. TARBELL, 
Secretary, Administrative Council.
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION FOR 1918-19
In order that both those students who are already registered in 
the Institute, and those who are anticipating entrance, may have 
advance information concerning the general program of instruction 
for 1918-19, and thus make their plans accordingly, the following 
announcements are now made:
School of Applied Science.
All courses offered in 1917-18 will be offered for 1918-19.
The designation of the Institute by the War Department as one 
of the 'technical schools whose students are eligible for enlistment iii 
the Engineer Reserve Corps, makes it possible for a student to remain 
and complete his course for the degree without being affected by the 
operation of the Selective Service Act.
School of Applied Design.
All conrscs offered in 1917-18 will be offered for 1918-19. Students 
who propose to return in the fall should notify the Dean’s Office 
before May 15th. Schedule cards should be submitted to the Heads 
of Departments for approval and filed in Miss Donehoo’s Office before 
May 24th. No permits to register for 1918-19 will bo mailed to 
students unless the courso schedules have been approved and filed
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School.
All courses offered for 1917-18 will be offered for 1918-19.
School of Applied Indutries.
All courses offered for 1917-18 will be offered for 1918-19.
Summer Reserve Officers’ Training Camp.
Information can be secured in the office of the Department of 
Military Science and Tactics after May 1st.
Summer Surveying Camp.
Will be held in Schenley Park beginning May 31st for the Science 
School students and on May 25th for Industries School students. No 
fall camp will be scheduled this year.
Summer Courses.
A. large number of courses will be offered during the summer 
quarter which begins July 1st and ends September 14th. Many of 
them will count towards the requirements of graduation. A special 
bulletin on summer courses can be secured at the Registrar’s Office on 
and after May 1st.
me te iAngof
Secretary, Administrative Council.
April 22, 1918.
WAR HAS NO EFFECT 
ON M. M. C. S. ATHLETICS
On Wednesday, April 17, at 4:30, 
the final basketball game for school 
championship was played in the M. 
M. C. S. gym. The game was a spirit­
ed one, but the sophomores, who were 
both taller and heavier than their 
opponents, humbled the juniors with 
a score of 18 to. 9. Their game was 
conspicuous for close guarding and 
their 'beam work was excellent. The 
Juniors were not dispirited but show­
ed lack of practice. The lineup was 
as follows:
Juniors. Sophomores.
Kruger......................C........................... Stone
I-Iarlow-Lappe. .S C.'.................... Endres
McCandless............G..............................Ross
Knarr.........................G........ Sheppard
Hainer........................F................ Batcbellor
Toberg.......................F....................... Bechtel
DANCE FOB ALL NIGHT 
STUDENTSTOßE MAY 10
Owing to the very limited privileges 
the night students have in attending 
the numerous athletic events sched­
uled by Tech, the Student Activity 
Board has set aside a sum of money 
to defray the expenses of a dance sole­
ly for night students.
A general committee has been ap­
pointed, as follows: Miss Surah Ru-
benstein and Miss Alice Klein, of Mar­
garet Morrison School; Mr. W. B. 
Ekinkle and Mr. Roy F. Porter, of Sci- 
enco School; Miss Agnes O’Malley and 
F. C. Wilharm, of Deisgn School, and 
Mr. G. J. Broche, of Industry School.
At a meeting of the general commit­
tee, May 10 lias been set as the day of 
the dance, which will be held in the 
Carnegie Union, Central Building, at 
8:30 p. m.
Various sub-committees are actively 
engaged and promise to have the nu­
merous details in shape. It is there­
fore the duty of all night students to 
he present, as a good time is assured 
all that attend.
Admission will be by tickets, which 
may be had gratis from any of the 
above named committeemen, or from 
the respective class presidents.
SCIENCE PLEBES TO 
OUÏ LIBERTY MINUS
At a mooting or the Scienco Plebos, 
In Hoorn 209, Science Building, Mon- 
liny, It was decided to continue the col­
lection of dims duos up to April. It 
was also docidod to give a dunce for 
the purpose of ruining money to buy a 
Liberty liond of the Third Issue. II 
bn» been proponed to hold tills dnnco 
In conjunction with Qualiflcatipn Day, 
us this will probably be the most con­
venient timo.
It Is planned to have It as simple as 
possible, to bo consistent with its 
aims. An assessment will also be 
made on the members of the cluss 
toward this end.
DR. MAC GOWAN TALKS 
TO Y. W. C. A. ASSEMBLY
At an assembly on Monday, April 
15, held in the interest of the Tech 
Y. W. C. A., Dr. MacGowan of the 
Belief! eld Presbyterian Church, ad­
dressed the girls on the need of the 
world today. He emphasized learning 
and religion as the two guiding forces 
and explained how they must go hand 
in hand. In this relation he presented 
the program which has been' compil­
ed by the Student Y. M. C. A. and 
Y. W. C. A.’s of North America, known 
as the Northiield program, whose pur­
pose is to make the world safe for 
democracy by spreading the Christian 
principles of democracy as set forth 
by Christ in the Eible. Five discus­
sion groups have been arranged at 
Margaret Morrison to study these 
principles and everyone is most cor­
dially invited to attend them. At each 
dormitory there is a class once a 
week—at Mellon Hall and Fifth, ave­
nue Hall on Monday evening at 6:45, 
and at Forbes Hall on Tuesday at 
C>:45. For the town people, Miss 
Holmes leads a group on Monday at 
3:30 in the middle faculty parlor at 
Margaret Morrison, and Miss- Brown­
ing leads a group at 12:45 on Thurs­
day in Room 214. These groups will 
meet for six weeks. Mrs. Frederic 
Shipp of Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church, has entire direction of this 
program and is leading two of the 
dormitory classes.
WORK GETTING HARDER; 
EXAMINATIONSTOBE HELD
It might be mentioned at this time 
that the most strenuous part of the 
course in military training at Tecli is 
just commencing.
The trenches being dug on the 
Morewood avenue fill are to be finished 
the middle of this week.
Examinations in all special classes 
will be held Wednesday, and as quick­
ly as these classes are completed, new 
ones will be started.
L. L. M. F. CAMPAIGN A SUCCESS.
The Liberty Loan Memorial Fund 
Committee, in the School of Applied 
Industries, which lias undertaken to 
ad to the several bonds of the sec­
ond issue, which are being held in 
trust, report that the students are re­
sponding very well to the call on the 
Third Liberty Loan At time of writ­
ing at least $75.00 had been sub­
scribed, and according to all indica­
tions they would be able to buy $100 
worth of bonds, if not $150. All stu­
dents who have not come across are 
urged to do so at their earliest oppor­
tunity. See your section leader at 
once.
Life is largely a matter of faith. 
We believe in something or in 
somebody and our hopes and im­
pulses and our actions are inspired 
by that belief.—Anon.
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh 
THE WATCH IN THE TRENCHES 
“KHAKI”
The U. S. Government has ruled that WRIST WATCHES 
worn by soldiers must hereafter have the 
SEMI-DARKENED CRYSTAL
¦Y Khaki Watch
is the one Wrist Watch that meets this demand— 
Unbreakable Glass, Luminous Dial, Khaki Wrist Band 
that won't absorb moisture, and Waltham movement.
$22.00 to $27.00
The HARDY & HAYES CO.
Wood St. at Oliver Ave. Pittsburgh
lillllü.ilLIJJ-U-IJlLUiiLLLLLI 11111111 Ml 111111111111111 inimr
KISKI DEFEATS TECH
IN FIRST GAME OF YEAR
: (Contiir'*^' FiGn: P«^e One.)
stars for Kiski. Let it be said for 
their entire (team, that they would be 
a credit to the average college this 
spring. However, the Prep schools 
have not suffered as many losses as 
the. colleges, because of the younger 
men predominating in their enroll­
ment.
KiskiR H P A E
Hoveran, 2b ...........................1 1 1 0 0
Dempsey, rf ..........................1 0 0 0
Dayies, ss ..........................1 1 1 0 0
Lawrence, c ..........................0 0 20 0 0
Todd, mf ...............................0 1 1 0 0
Fletcher, If ..........................0 1 0 0 0
Clauson, lb .............................0 0 3 0 0
Hill, p ......................................1 1 0 0 0
Stevenson, 3b .............. 0 0 1 0 0
Totals
Tech
..4 5 27 0 0 
R H P A E
Stevenson, lb....................0 0 6 0 0
Good, mf  ...................  .0 0 101
Doherty, ss ............................1 0 3 0 0
Gretzlër, p.’..........................0 0 0 5 0
Fulton, 2b ..............................0 0 3 1 0
Lynn, 3b .................................0 0 1 3 0
Oakley, If ...............................1 0 2 0, 0
Zehfuss, c ..0 18 0 0
Mauer, rf ...............................0 0 0 0 0
Totals.2 1 24 9 1
Kiski..........................0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 *—4
Tech ..........................0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1—2
Athletic Manager Eyman took the 
reconstructed team up to State Col­
lege, Pa., Monday afternoon and .the 
Penn State team was met Tuesday in 
the graduation day athletic attraction. 
Coach McCullough was far from satis­
fied with,the showing of the team in 
the Kiski game and is shifting, the 
lineup to obtain a stronger combina­
tion. Gates, who has been showing 
well in practice was taken along to 
play the outfield.
Arrangements were consummated, to 
meet Colgate on the home diamond 
on Monday, May 13. This should be 
the best game on the home field this 
season. It is also probable that an 
army team from Camp Lee 'will play 
the Varsity on Tech Field, on April 30.
MILITARY BALL PROVES
MOST ENJOYABLE AFFAIR
(Continued From Page One.) 
of the history of Tech, but that does 
not say it will be forgotten by the stu­
dents, the faculty or any of their 
friends who were fortunate enough to 
be there. The ball far surpassed all 
expectations. of every one interested 
in it and every one will look back to it 
with' extreme satisfaction and with 
great pleasure. The only note, of re­
gret is that anyone of Tech’s stu­
dents was unfortunate enough to miss 
the event.
The Stars and Stripes and flags of 
our allies, together with Carnegie ban­
ners and service flags of various Tech 
organizations made an appropriate 
setting for the gay chrong gathered in 
the Schenley ball-iViom. The military 
atmosphere was marked, for not only 
members of Tech’s R. O. T. C., but 
many friends stationed in various de­
partments of Government service in 
Pittsburgh, attended in uniform. Tech 
was particularly fortunate in having 
President Hamersclilag back that 
night.
The grand march, led by Mrs. Iiam- 
reschlag and Col. Brooks, was very 
striking. Following this, dancing and 
cards prevailed. The music for dancing 
was exceptionally good, and since both 
the foyer and ball-room were used for 
dancing, ‘all those indulging in that 
pleasure were quite happy. At 11 
o’clock came the intermission. “Keep 
the Home Fires Burning,” and 
“There’s a Long, Long Trail,” sung by 
the Liberty Loan Quartet, were en­
joyed immensely. Following this, Miss 
Mary Ricards, of the Dramatic De­
partment of Design School, gave a 
stirring Russian solo dance in cos­
tume. Miss Ricards’ work always 
pleases: Some choice English folk
dances were given by Mr. Theodore 
Viehman and selected pupils from his 
folk dance classes. Major Hilbard 
Lyle then presented some interesting 
moving pictures of the Canadian Army 
in France. Aside from an interesting 
auction of flowers, the rest of the 
evening was devoted to dancing. 
Of especial interest was the Orien­
tal tent in the card room, occu­
pied by Madame Zilla, the reader of 
palms. Many anxious. individuals 
availed themselves of this opportunity 
to see. what the future held for them.
One of the most successful features 
of the evening and one which involved 
quite a good deal of hard work, was 
the sale of flowers. Mrs. Hamer- 
schlag was in charge of this committee. 
She was very efficiently aied by her 
committee: Miss Anna Dice, Miss
Beatrice Heinrich, Miss Mary Macll- 
vane an Miss Dorothy High, of De­
sign School, and Miss Margaret Lappe 
and Miss Maud Hainer, of M. M. C. S. 
These girls deserve a great deal of 
credit.
EAT THE MILLER WAY
Miller’s
Cafeteria
—and—
RESTAURANT
FIFTH AVE. ARCADE
(SUBWAY)
3 GET YOUR HAIR CUT33 ----------at the----------
I TECH BARBER SHOP
u 3 3 
a3 3a
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
igjgjgf5J5J5J5igj5J5i5J5i5M5JBJ5/5MSI5/BJBIBi5I0 
Bell Phone 3465 Grant.
J. G. Marshall 
Company
OFFICE, SCHOOL AND
LIBRARY FURNITURE.
959 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
FULLER BRUSHES!
Win Men and Money.
Many Tech men are paying 
all or part of their expenses 
selling Fuller Sanitary Brushes 
spare time or summer. ¡Attrac­
tive line, nationally advertised. 
A square deal for all.
See Yost, Hain or Trader or 
call at office, 617 Ferguson Bldg., 
any day between 4 and 6 P. M.
Bellefield Shoe 
Repairing
FORBES STREET 
Opposite Carnegie Library. 
High class work done while you 
wait.
LOW PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS 
Give us a trial.
CHURCHES
ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAI 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 anc) 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holft 
Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30. P. M. 
»Pew 58 Middle Aisle for Tech Stu­
dents.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
REV. E. JEFFERY JENNINGS, 
Assistant.
Sunday Services, 11 A. M. and 7:45 
P. M.
Bible Class, 10:00 A. M.
Tech students cordially welcomed.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
Shady and Northumberland Avenues
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00. A. M. an# 
5:00 P. M.
Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messagea 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D. D., 
Pastor.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
THE HOME LIKE CHURCH 
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES 
Sunday School—9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship—11 A. M. 
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45, 
Sermons for Head and Heart. 
Hearty Welcome for All.
[TlliiliiiüJiüiUüUJiliUUtiiüiiinniiiiliilQliiiiiiHiiJi^uiüi^iiDliiiiiiiiliiinimiiiiuiiiniiimiünmnninuiiiuniiiiHiiiiiiLiiiimiiiiutmiiauiHiDunmTütHnnntninmniniinmiiumtiinninmnmw
“A National Institution”
Browning, King & Company
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOE S' 
MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
iliiuiniiaBraninciiiiiminmninKnnniiimninniuiiiiuiniiiuiiiiiuiuiiiiisiuiiiuiiuiiiiiuiiiiiuiuiniuiQL'iUBiiuniiiiiii^uiuuiiiiiiiuiiiü
BRING YOUR PICTURES 
To Us. We Do Expert 
DEVELOPING PRINTING
ENLARGING 
At Reasonable Prices.
A Fresh Stock of 
PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES 
Always on hand.
W. S. BELL & CO.
412 WOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone—Court 1265,
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 1t and 8. 
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at­
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of I] 
“Friendly People.” A hearty ||j 
welcome awaits you. s
[E5J5I5J5i5H^[5J5J5iSiS/SEMSJSiSH5M5i5I5

---------------------------------------------------

x Vf 0*1.Page TnreeWednesday, April 24, 1918
Tentative pliuiS' for a muiili ' mcirc iiiij- 
portant.-public function in commémora* 
tion of the ehtranCe of American CoH 
lege men into tbe war have beeii 
drawn, up, but no announcement lor 
publication .can as yet. be made.
(b)—Educational Projects.-—As the 
outgrowth of informal conferences 
with 'officers of the American Univei*-. 
sity Union, responsible French educa­
tional authorities have formulated 
plans for putting at the disposal of the1 
American military authorities the edu­
cational resources of France. These 
projects are under consideration by 
the American military authorities and 
the American Y. M. C. A. A discussion r 
of their details would be premature, ! 
but it is reasonable to hope that some | 
developments of large educational sig- j 
nificance may ultimately be attained j 
and that the Union may prove an im- ! 
portant factor in the solution of ques- ; 
tions affecting notmerely the instruc- { 
tion of American troops in French, but 
the increasingly sympathetic intellec- j 
tual relations between Franco and j 
America.
(o)—French Hospitality.—On the j
social side of its life tho Union has ; 
received recognition hardly less 
marked than that accorded to it on 
the educational side. From numerous 
individual offers of hospitality cm the 
part of French people toward Ameri­
cans in service, and'especially toward 
American college men, as represented 
at the University Union, there has 
been developed something approach­
ing an .effective co-ordination of effort. , 
The Comité des Ferncli Homes, whose 
honorary President is Madam laMare- 
chale Joffre, and whose active leader 
is Madame de Billy, wife of one of the 
prominent members of the Jardien 
Commission, lias been in frequent con­
sultation with the officers of the 
Union as to plans of hospitality toward 
Americans in the service. It is con­
cerned largely with the entertainment 
of men stationed at various camps and 
especially of men on leave. At various 
places in the provinces, such as Pau 
and Grenoble, committees have al­
ready been- organized and others are 
being rapidly formed elsewhere 
throughout France. On account, of the 
magnitude of the question of “Permis- j 
sions” for the American Army, the 
Union felt it would be unable to act 
as.the clearing house for the entire 
work of the committee, but the Execu­
tive Committee of the Union is aiding 
in every way the French committee in 
its generous plans for hospitality to­
ward our men in service. One section 
of this work has been organized under 
the title “Reception Parisiennes." in 
conduct of Madame Borol. This has 
arranged numerous musicales, teas, re­
ceptions and other social gatherings, 
at which the University Union has 
been largely represented. Professor 
Vibbert has been chiefly responsible 
'for extending personal invitations to 
various college mon resident at the 
Union and for insuring their partici­
pation in tho various functions ar­
ranged In their honor.
(d)—Paris Advisory Council.—In tho 
developments of the work of tho Un­
ion, particularly in its practical rela­
tions with tho community of which it. 
'Is now a part, the support and advice 
of the Paris Advisory Council has been 
of distinct benefit. At its meeting in 
January tho Council decided to raise 
from its members and from other col­
lege men resident in Paris voluntary 
'subscription to tho Entertainment 
Fund. Already the sum of 1,700 francs 
has been turned over to the Executive 
’Committee with promise of additional 
subscriptions.
1 The report of tho Executive Com­
mittee to tho Trustees, under date of 
January 31, 1918, concludos as fol­
lows:
“So rapid has been .the expansion of 
the Union and so manifold have be­
come its interests that even this 
lengthy report covering the first quar- 
ter-year of its history, omits many 
points worthy of note. To a large ex­
tent, for example, it neglects the con­
stant and vitally important personal 
services rendered by the officers and 
staff of the Union and of the College 
Bureaus, to the college men who fre­
quent the Union.
“In conclusion, it should be said that 
the work of the Union has been con­
stantly conducted in entire harmony 
with that of the American Red Cross 
and Y. M. C. A. Many members of 
both these organizations have been 
residents at the Union. Some evi­
dences of the inter-play and co-opera­
tion between them and the Union have 
been suggested in this report.
“The Executive Committee present 
to the Board of Trustees for its ap­
proval this report of the first quarter- 
year of the active life of the Union, at 
its Paris headquarters, with satisfac­
tion not so much in past accomplish­
ments, as in the prospects of larger 
uesfulness now distinctly opening be­
fore the Union. It has not dwelt on 
various shortcomings in the work ap­
parent to none more clearly than to 
its own members. Some of these fail­
ings have been due to unavoidable war 
conditions, some to the rapidity of 
development which outgrew the re­
sources of a limited staff of workers, 
but we believe that, in considerable 
measure, the faith of tho Board of 
Trustees has been justified by the 
works of the Union, and that the gen­
erous financial outlay made possible 
by the efforts of the Trustees has 
yielded distinct results. Of those, not 
the least, perhaps, has been tho Union 
in reality as well as in name, of so 
many American colleges and college 
men, once perhaps, divergent in inter­
ests, but recognizing now one faith, 
one hope, one common loyalty.”
miss Anne U Leary |
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shuman) 
CLEANING, PRESSING AND £ 
REPAIRING 
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen's 
Garments.
Alterations on Uniforms. §
3933 FORBES STREET §j
Bell Schenley 389
i forCollegeMen
These are two of the 
24 popular shapes in which you can get the
& Stratford .
$1.00 and up
W'D C Hand Made
$1.50 and up 
Each a1 fine pipe, 
<with sterling silver ring 
land vulcanite bit. 
ILeading ? dealers in 
jtown carry a full as­
sortment. Select your 
favorite style. <
WM. DEMUTH & CO.
New York •
World’s Largest Pipe Manufacturers
(Continued From Last Week.) 
(e)—House Committee—Chairman. 
Mr. Lansingli. The chairman of this 
committee has had charge of the gen­
eral conduct of the business and office 
organization of the Union and lias co­
operated with all the committees in 
carrying out within the Union their 
several arrangements. He has in­
stalled a small shop or “canteen” in 
the lobby on the ground floor. This 
carries, cigars, cirgarets, tobacco, can­
dy, chocolate, toilet, articles, writing 
paper, flashlights and other articles 
in demand. The investment is small, 
the turn-over rapid, and the shop is 
self-supporting. Its daily business 
amounts to between 200 and 300 
francs. Provision has been made for 
a purchasing agent who handles the 
numerous commissions for purchases 
received both in person and by mail. 
In general a 10 per cent charge is 
made above the cost of such pur­
chases, an arrangement which should 
ultimately make this department self- 
supporting and which adds greatly to 
the facilities of the Union. Two gen­
eral staff secretaries, Professor Alder- 
fer, of Oberlin College, and Mr. W. W. 
Irwin, of the University of Pennsyl­
vania, have recently been added to the 
general sta. Professor Alderfer is 
especially charged with the work of 
registration and correspondence with 
colleges not specifically represented 
by their own representatives in Paris. 
Mr. Irwin assists in the work of the 
Union on the business side. A third 
general staff secretary, Professor Cun- 
liffe, of Columbia, who has just ar­
rived, will take charge of the London 
Branch of the Union.
External Developments. 
Important as have been the internal 
developments of the work of the 
Union at its Paris headquarters, even 
broader significance, perhaps, at­
taches to the relations already estab­
lished by the Union with the social, 
and especially with the educational in­
terests of France. The success of the 
Union has attracted widespread atten­
tion from Fernch officials, learned so­
cieties, and individuals of prominence. 
The Union has become a recognized 
center where have converged lines of 
educational and intellectual influence 
in France. Of these it is possible to 
note only the most significant.
(a)—Rapprochment Unlversitaire— 
The Union has from the outset attract­
ed special favor from the Rapproch­
ment Universitaire, a recently' organ­
ized club of university professors and. 
men of similar intellectual interests 
in Paris. The various members of the 
staff have been invited to meetings of 
the Rapprochment and that of Febru-
OL..XIGO LLAR.S
MARK
Established 1865
IVIelBonNational
Bank
PITTSBURGH 
510-514 Smitlifield St. 
409-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave. 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000
SPORTING GOODS STORE 
Tennis—Golf 
Baseball—Bicycles 
Kodaks and Films 
Guns and Ammunition 
Army Leggings and Sweaters 
Fishing Tackle 
Bicycle Tires and Sundries 
Tents and Camping Outfits 
Gun and Bicycle Repairing 
639 LIBERTY AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE |
Special Class for High School and College Students, Starting Mon- £ 
day, October 15, at 8:00 P. M.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY E
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE |
Resources Over 
$100,000,000
{öiii!i]innii:nniiHiiiiffiiininii!ii;iiininiiniiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiii!iinniiimiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiin!iiiraiiiiiI
 WEBER EXPRESS AND | 
STORAGE COMPANY 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. i 
Moving, Packing and Storing | 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- g 
eral Hauling Baggage to and E 
from Depots. [j
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET b 
PITTSBURGH
PHOTOGRAPHS 
OF OUR
SOLDIERSBATTERYg 242 S. HIGHLAND AVENUE |
ojj^MSMSMSMSMclMSMISMSISMSfSMSMDU
1 *36 Seventh Ave. 1
I AH Kinds of BATTERIES |
I SERVICE Repaired and Recharged ¡j
BcycjjcyclfcticiJcifüciMiâciJci/ciltiilciJCiJciJciJciJciJciJEJciiCiiciJiyâ/SMSMSHSiSiSlSjSiSMSMSEJSMSiSMS/S/#
 TYPEWRITERS 
RENTED 
Late models. 
Three months for 
$7.00. Special 
rates to students. 
Guaranteed Fac­
tory Rebuilt Ma­
chines.
American Writing Machine 
Company
630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374 
Special Monarch Visible, 3 mo, $5.
W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
niUID!!)l!UI!l[lll!!lll!lllll!!!ll!!iliUII!Uli[illtlllll!ll!ll!llll!!!!i:;n
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK"
J CAPITAL, -.........................................................................$200,000.00 j
I SURPLUS, .......... $200,000.00 1
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
FORBES AND ATWOOD 8T8.
Phoneo 160—3161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICE8 TO TECH 
STUDENTS
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENTary 26 was especially set aside for tlie 
reception of ofllcers of the American 
University Union. Mr. Stolces re- 
sponded in French to the greetings 
formally extended by M. Larnande, 
Dean of the Faculty of Law of the 
University of Paris, and President of 
by Rapproachement Universitarie.
TRANSITS AND LEVELS I'1 
a ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE
DRAFTING ROOM p'It is injurious to the mind as well 
as to the^body to" be always in one 
place and always surrounded by the 
same circumstances.—Richard Jef­
feries.
Man and his strife! and beneath him 
The Earth in her green respose; 
And out of the Earth he cometh, 
And into the Earth he goes.
—William Watson.
f^ôîicI/c?/iïyc!/S/ônï!lSnï!n3/a]ôJô7l3icîiclfiî!iSIIi!/IftjClfüiJcL^
Have You Seen the Neiv Gillettes 
Specially Designed for the Fighting Man?
fPHESE models were designed by members of the Gillette Organ- 
ization who have seen service with the Colors and know what 
the soldier is up against.
Hundreds of officers and men are buying them—the U. S. Service 
Set in metal case, and the new Khaki-covered sets for Uncle Sam’s 
soldiers and officers.
i The Gillette* is the one razor for the man who is doing things— 
the one razor with world-wide use and reputation.
When a man wants new Blades he can get them at any Post Ex­
change or Y. M. C. A. Hut—here in America or Overseas.
Our Paris Office carries stocks—is constantly supplying the 
American Expeditionary Forces. Gillette Safety Razors and Blades 
on sale everywhere in France, England, Italy and the Eastern 
battle fronts.
ill A good place to get a good meal. £ 51 hF3 Meet your friends here on K, 
| Sunday evening. j
I FRED SUDDEBY, Proprietor. 
CRAIG AND FORBE8
THE 
SENSIBLE 
TYPEWRITER 
FOR THE 
STUDENTThe Minute 
a Man Putsorm
The fighting man doesn’t want to dawdle around. He wants to do a thing right—and get it over with.
That’s why the boys in the Service, the world over, are using the Gillette—the “onee-over razor.”
The Gillette saves from five to ten minutes a shave in record time. Ten million men use nothingshave—no strops or hones to clutter up the kit— but the Gillette.blades always sharp—always ready—No Strop- The new U. S. Regulations say that every manping—No Honing. called to the Colors must have a razor—a razorThe Gillette is the real service razor—100% that will meet all the demands of a soldier’s life,efficient on any kind of beard or skin—under every Every man under the Colors needs a Gillette,possible climatic condition, in any part of the The mother, sister or friend of a boy in camp,world—whether in hot or cold, or hard or soft or a boy who’s going into camp, couldn’t possiblywater. make him a more useful or acceptable gift than aIt’s a shaving tool that gives a velvet-smooth Gillette Safety Razor.Co^oNACOMPANYGILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR
BOSTON MASS.,U.S.A.The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple In construction 
and operation that any­
one can use It without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
P-lce $50
Gillette Safety Razor Company, op Canada, Ltd. 
73 St. Alexander St., Montreal. 
¡Gillette Safety Razor Société Anonyme 
17 Bis, Rue 1C Boetie, Paris, France
N288CAAC RLECAG SLTX.U F2H2AC, 
N.CLA PX.A8LO, BRAVU FXO,XOU 4VU 1O98LlX 
eV NV r2tYC8Co 
nj F2AC2OGU PCA.Xt.L,U Scoo2L
. VirnovA Tosi Qoirino & Figli 
Senato, 18, Milan, Italy
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION j 
OPEN EVENINGS
HMBM
Who shall say which is the more 
ghastly, the sight of the bleached 
fckull or of dried-up human hearts? 
—Balzac.

---------------------------------------------------

Fage FourTHE TARTANWednesday, April 24, 1918
Thefi
pencilIfthatinlastsIf
longerIf¦ lililí I IIIFirm, strongifleads thatIlf
(do not
easily Ifei
break Jfl
17degrees
at allstationers
DRAMATIC STUDENTS 
ENTERTAIN SOCIETY
ELDORADO
'the master drawing pencil "
SOMETHING NEW
A REAL MILITARY FOUNTAIN PEN 
Made to stand the service.
Uses Ink in solid form plus water. 
Programs Favors Stationery
Singer Pen & Gift Shop
! JENKINS ARCADE
ENLISTED RESERVE MEN MAY WEAR INSIGNIA| ------------------
j A memorandum from the adjutant 
general of the army says that the 
Engineer Enlisted Reserve students 
a,re authorized to wear, on the leCt 
tipel of the coat in civilian clothes, 
Or; on the left hand side of the col­
lar for uniformed students, the regu- 
ialj.ion enlisted, man’s button of the 
Corps of Engineers, wlthdut company 
iolltelv It being distinctly understood 
tiiill the enlistment of these men in 
the Enlisted Reserve Corps does not 
authorize them, on account of such 
ehilstment, to wear the uniform of 
tfi'e United States Army, or any part 
thereof,' other than Live button, until 
cjilled into Service.
(Continued from page'1) 
Viehman to exercise his ingenuity 
still further in this direction. The 
music was furnished by. the Depart­
ment of Music with Miss Olive Vieh­
man at thiH piano. Costumes, by Miss
II, Klamroth, Mrs. Engle and Nich­
olas Muller, under the direction of 
Professor Geoghegan; stage manager, 
David Taither, assisted by James S. 
Church.
The two plays preceded the ballet 
on the program and each had its 
own particular interest.
In "Makeshifts” t.h ** I’aTe of the 
play is entirely in the hands of one 
character, “Mr. Albert Smythe,” a 
type of masculine vanity and vulgar 
commoness difficult to surpass. Mr. 
Hubbard Kirkpatrick, to. whom this 
very trying role was entrusted, made 
it stand out in bold and unvarnished 
relief and at the same time brought 
out all that was amusing in the 
character. His “makeup" mirrored 
the inner man and every gesture 
emphasized it. The character was 
entirely out of Mr. Kirkpatrick's line 
of work and he succeeded in com­
pletely submerging his own person­
ality in that of “Yours truly, A. 
Smythe, Esq.”
Mr. Alex Buchanan made a delight­
fully shy and awkward “Mr. Thomp­
son,” the boarder whose sohserva- 
tion was limited to the state of the 
weather. One was sorry this role 
was so brief.
“Carolyne Parker,” Miss Hazel 
Beck, and Dolly Parker (Kathrlne 
Jones Engle) the two disconsolate 
sisters, completed the cast, making 
excellent foils, both in appearance 
and characterization.
This was the second performance 
of “Lonesome-like,” and a much more 
finished performance than the first, 
having better balance and a swifter 
tempo. The play affords Miss Guth­
rie an opportunity for a very good 
bit of character work as “Sarah Or- 
merodr’ ' She does this type quite 
successfully. Mr. Bishop Dickinson's 
“Sam Horroclcs,” the country lout, 
was a very convincing characteriza­
tion, so sincerely done as to almost 
sftiother' the fun by calling so strong­
ly upon one’s sympathy for the weak 
and the afflicted. In fact, the entire 
play makes one feel “the pity o’ it.” 
Mr. Mulligan’s “Curate” was suave 
and unneertaln as. curates are wont 
to be. 1-Ie is versatile and seems to 
fit in everywhere that they have 
placed him. Miss Mary Riccardo has 
a similar adaptability and made 
“Enimn. Briefly” quite' interesting.
The Liberty Loan speech written 
by Mr. Thomas Wood Stevens, direc­
tor of Department of Drama, was de­
livered by Katherine Jones Engle.
The most happy man is he who 
knows how to bring into relation the 
end and the beginning of his life.— 
Goothe.
SUNDAY PROGRAM AT
EAST LIBERTY Y. M. C. A.
The committee in charge of the Sun­
day afternoon raeefor men and' 
boys, especially those under draft age, 
have secured Madame Louis Ritz, of 
France; who will tell of the conditions 
existing in devastated France and Bel­
gium.
Also, Dr. Luther Freeman, of Emory 
M. E. Church, will deliver the next of 
a series of challenges, which this week 
is the War's Challenge to the Young 
| Men to Live for His Country.
Watch for posters and cards.
MIDDLE CLASS REORGANIZES.
The members of the Middle class of 
the School, of Applied Industries has 
at last gotten under way again after 
a period of idleness caused by the loss 
of their executive officers entering the 
service. At a meeting last week, J 
W. Batman was elected president and 
R. W. Oakley vice president. Under 
these new leaders the Middlemen ex­
pect to put across some good stunts 
before long.
OUR ALLIES EXPECT 
MUCH FROM COLLEGES
Reciprocity with the colleges of 
Great Britain and France for the 
purpose of educating the people of 
America and Europe to a better un­
derstanding of war and after-the-Avar 
problems is recommended by Dr. 
Lyman P. Powell, President of Ho­
bart College. Dr. Powell, who re­
cently returned from an important 
war mission, during which he made 
a survey of the educational situation 
in England and France, advocates 
sending to Europe a delegation of 
prominent Americans representing 
the leading national educational asso­
ciations, the Rockefeller and Carne­
gie Foundations, the League to En­
force Peace, and other organizations 
interested in world reorganization, to 
confer with the leading educators of 
England and France.
This war, he says, has brought 
about a recasting of educational 
standards. “There is emerging a new 
appreciation of the cultural values of 
England and France which has long 
been overshadowed by the bombastic 
and pretentious ltultur of the foe. 
Nowhere can education after the war 
be what it was before. To beat Ger­
many is merely our first task. We 
have set our teeth to perform that 
task and we are going to do it,
CAMERAPHONE
EAST LIBERTY
-ALL WEEK-
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
“THE HOUSE OF GLASS”
standing soulder to shoulder with our 
Allies.
“’We shall not disappoint our noble 
friends across the sea,. Our college 
boys; will -do their duty. " They will’ 
give the last full measure of devo­
tion. Harvard and Yale, Chicago 
and Oberlin, California and Leland 
Stanford will stand cheek by jowl 
with Oxford and Cambridge, Lon­
don and Paris, Dijon and Bordeaux, 
in presenting an unbreakable front 
of racial and righteous culture 
against a kultur officially champion­
ed at the outbreak of the war not 
merely by the Government but by 
university professors, scientific men, 
historians and publicists who declared 
that civilization depends on “the vic­
tory of German militarism” and that 
Kultur must rear its domes over 
mountains' of corpses, 1 oceans of 
tears, and death-rattle of the con­
quered.
“All the way through these com­
ing years of the rebuilding of the 
world, our colleges must see straight. 
They must not forget that Machia- 
velli was a mere tyro by the side of 
the unspeakable Prussian. They must 
not be fooled into the belief that 
Pan-Germanism has been developed 
by our enemy for mere war-consump- 
tion. They must think before and 
after. They must remember that 
scarcely was the Kaiser seated on 
the throne before the abominable 
propaganda began to give undue 
prominence to German language and 
German influence in the schools and 
colleges of the whole world. They 
must never for a moment forget that 
all this vicious effort to poison the 
springs of the world’s highest ideals 
has had the financial backing of the 
German Government itself.
‘Our colleges will not be deceived 
by any plea to let bygones be by­
gones. They will have before them 
ever in cold type the deliberate and 
slowly developed purpose of the 
enemy to create a German nation in 
our nation recognized as recently as 
1913 in the Delbruck law which 
claimed for the Kaiser the loyalty 
of even naturalized Germans in our 
country, and also clearly stated on 
February 13, 1915, in Das Grossere 
Deutschland, which openly spoke of a 
‘(ieutscher Tag in the American Fed­
eral capital.’
“But. the spell at last is broken 
by the Potsdam gang. We shall not 
all agree in making up anew our es­
timate of Germany. Perhaps few of 
us will go so far as the writer 
the Fortnightly Review, who says we 
are indebted to literary Germany for 
‘little beyond the perversion of what 
was the* intensely human genius of 
Carlyle into a manner of fascinating 
monstrosity.’ We shall all, however, 
put the , knife in deep. Nowhere 
more surely than in our colleges is it 
becoming evident in the light of our 
new understanding of the value of 
French and Spanish that the Ger­
man language has been overestimated 
even for commercial purposes. No­
where more definitely than in our 
colleges will men turn back again to 
the judgment of William James, 
trained in French thinking, who pro­
claimed nearly a generation ago that 
German philosophy was not all the 
Germans claimed for it.
“England will' teach us of her 
best, and in France the day is not 
far distant when young America will 
learn how to combine precision with 
the power to generalize. Together 
with out Allies, we shall plan out 
wisely the new education essential 
to preserve peace and shall realize 
increasingly the truth in Mr. H. G. 
Well’s words that. ‘Now that the 
apostolic succession of the old peda­
gogy is broken, and the entire sys­
tem discredited, it seems incredible 
that it. can ever again be reconstitut­
ed in its old seats upon the old 
lines.’ ”
P.LUDEBUEHL& SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY PENN ID FMSTUN 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as ofte>» 
as not told by his footwear—if he Iw 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are “all right.” Our 
Shoes are built by some of the mos^ 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair Special Men’s Dept.
Our Great Removal Sale Offer!
M. M. C. S. NOTES
Miss Henrietta Browning, of the 
physical training department, will 
leave Margaret Morrison at the end 
of this term to go to Wellesley.
Dean Mary Breed returned on Thurs­
day, after a week’s'absence from the 
city.
Miss Helene M. Pope, of the House­
hold Economics faculty, will teach at 
Vassar College during the summer.
Miss Siri Engstromer, the Red Cross 
nurse who addressed the general as­
sembly on April 9, has come to Forbes 
Hall to remain during her stay in 
Pittsburgh.
After the general assembly lest 
Wednesda3r, Mr. ;Salee of the R. G. 
Dunn credit agency, of New York, 
gave a very interesting lecture to the 
girls of the secretarial department. In 
explaining the evolution of credit, he 
illustrated various methods, now ob­
solete, and wound up by showing the 
use of the large book which the R.
G. Dunn Co. puts out.
A very interesting “Question Box 
Meeting” of the Y. W. C. A. was led 
last Thursday evening by Florence 
Swartout. Various questions that both­
er college girls were read by different 
girls and were then discussed at 
large. No one held back her opinion 
and many enlightening and surprising 
answers were put forth. At the meet­
ing Thursday, April '25, Mrs. Mac- 
Gowan will talk on hostess house 
work and her experience at Camp Lee.
Precious things are for those who 
can prize them.—Aesop.
The understanding is always the 
dupe of the heart.—L Rochefou­
cauld.
Hart, Schaffner & Marx
$30.00 SUITS
Featuring Swagger 
Models for Young men 
at the low price of........
To buy this world famed clothing 
at this low price is a most unusual 
opportunity and every alert young 
man should take advantage of this 
wonderful offer.
Frank & Seder
Smithfield and Diamond Streets
OFFICERS and ENLISTED MEN
who are here at school for a short time, and need 
anything in the line of Uniforms, Leggins and Hats 
will do well to visit our establishment. 
We sell only regulation uniforms, at a lower 
price than you can buy them elsewhere.
| Absolutely First Class In Every Respect. 
We Manufacture Our Own Product.
a
| 3037-40 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH, PA.3 ' gj
H STRINGS AND SUPPLIES FOR ALL MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS 
New and Slightly Used Band and String Instruments of All Kinds at; 
Bargain Prices.
HIGH GRADE GUITARS SPECIAL FOR THIS WEEK 
Standard or concert sizes, rosewood, oak and mahogany withj 
hardwood neck and good machine bound edges and sound hole. 
Perfect scale guaranteed. Value $10.00. .
Special this week...................... ............................................................^viUU
ATT T1V7 TP D * 929 LIBERTY AVENUE_ tJJt\. 1^/JL-/11^1 UH-/Iv O Established 1854
UNIFORMS
FOR OFFICERS
Regulation in uniforms demands a 
rigid simplicity. Yet some uniforms 
look so much better than others.
It’s the quality of the fabric, the 
smartness of the fit, that makes the 
difference. It is very important for 
an officer to look his best—therefore 
you want the best uniforms to be 
had. We have them.
Mi 6 NAVY STORI¡E CO., lie.
623 Liberty Ave.,
PITTSBURGH, PA.
BELL PHONE, GRANT 3186
Largest Military Outfitters.
f5Ji5JSMS/5JSÌ5i5/SÌ5J5J5J5J5JSÌSi5l5i5i5i5/5JSJSJ5J5j5M5J5/SJ5i5/SÌSJS/SJ5ÌSJB]5/5/S/SJSMSJ5/S/5jSlSÌ I ALL WORK GUARANTEED PROMPT SERVICE
I JAMES PARISI
^ MODERN ELECTRIC SHOE REPAIRING
I 217VZ ATWOOD STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
BEST LEATHER USED . . :
