VOL. 29, NO. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Eng. Students 
Will Attend 
27th Meeting 
Of A. I. Ch. E.
Prof. James Prepares 
Treatise on History 
of Cbem. Eng.
ARTHUR BRISBANE 
IS GUEST SPEAKER
Association to Be Carnegie’s 
GuestB at Presentation 
Of ‘Glass House*’
J. Beatty Heads Charity 
Campaign; R. Davis, 
Mrs. Moore Aid
$2,464.00 RECEIVED 
BY SATURDAY A. M.
Juniors and seniors in the vc- ariment of Chemical Engineering „¦in be excused from classes Mrbureday and Friday mornings to Attend the technical discussion
slitute o£ Chem­ical Engineers. The meetings vili take place la Ibe main bàll-
- A. E. Marshall 
i the club’i
University Club, Thursday evening. Polio' ing the banquet there will be a dan ballroom.Dr. James Makes Report 
Dr. J. H. James, head of the De­partment of Chemical Engineering, has prepared a brief
ititled Chemical Engineering Ed­ucation. This report is being print­ed and will be distributed to those ¿ending the convention. Wednesday*-, evening, Dr. John C. Hoats'lier,' director of Developm®"*
and Astronomy—from' C^pti^TÜBe of Galileo to.the Two-Hunded-Inch Mirror.”Broadcasts' Address 
A. E. Marshall, president of Association and consulting chemical engineer of New York City will speak over KDKA 8:30 p. m., Thursday. His topic 111 be “Scientific Research dustry.”The Association will bo the guests of-Carnegie Thursday ning when VOL..2 Houses’' will be rented by the Department of ‘ äentation will be eption in the Ex- 
9 the College of
Coal Research Laboratories in Ei glnecring Hall will be open for in­spection to the delegates Thurs­day and Friday afternoons. Be- sides visiting these laboratories, the delegates will visit several large factories -in the Pittsburgh 
district.Several students representing student branches of the A. I. Ch. B. from various schools in the country will be the guesta of the. senior body at the contention. These students will be accom­modated In the school dormitories during their stay in Pittsburgh.
Or. Jones, Local ChairmanDr. Webster N. Jones, director of the College of Engineering, is gen­eral chairman of the local com­mittee on arrangements. -Other members of the faculty who ha' assisted In making preparations are Dr. J. H. James; Dr. Ernest Berl, research professor of Chemistry; Augustine H. Weltz, Department of Chemical Engineering; and Wil­lard James, head of the News Bure:
Student Contributions 
Swell Welfare Drive 
Fund; Goal is $6,000
C. Gable Is Student General 
Chairman; Rial, Slocum, 
V. KIoob to Assist
The Welfare Drive, with Mr. 
John D. Beatty, Bureau of Recom­
mendations. in charge, has made a 
good start to achieve a one- hun­
dred per cent contribution of the 
student body and attain the goal 
of $6,000. Mr. Beatty is being as­sisted by. Mr. Rollin V. Davis, ex­ecutive secretary of the Y. M. C. who act6 as student treasurer Mrs. 1*. J. Moore, faculty surer in the campaign, narles G. Gable '38, Depart- t Of Architecture, is general chairman. George Rial ’36, De­partment of Chemical Engineering, Wilfred F. Slocum ’38, Department of Architecture and Veronica A. Kloos^ ’35,Department of Secre- il Studies, are the directors of the campaigns )? the Colleges of Engineering, Fine Arts and Mar­garet M,orri3on.
Pledge Cards Distributed On Saturday the total amount
i ,$2,464.00 representing subscriptions from 281 persons. Pledge cards have been distributed to 900 members of the school's ex­ecutive staff and to the 2,200 day students. All are urged
eral assembly Charles Oliver, general c of the Drive made a shoi ment concerning the alms of the Community Fund and introduced Mr. Wilbur F.. Maxwell, executlvo secretary, who delivered a short address concerning, the need for funds and stressed the following points: first, that a. pledge card :haS"^en^elfvWea/tS,'/Svfiry '-nfeih- her. of the faculty and student body; secondly, that the faculty should send this pledge ' card to Mrs. Moore, assistant controller; thirdly, that all students should turn their pledge cards to the * secretary,'-•• Rollin V. Davis; and lastly, each student should tribute at least $1.00 to the Wel­fare Drive which has $6,000 as '
Plan All-Carnegie 
Dance for Nov. 23
Freshmen are Getting Beady 
'For Annual Function
Cosmopolitan Glub 
Entertained by ‘Y’
Mr, E. Warner to Address 
Group on “International”
At.3 o’clock tonight, there will be a joint meeting ot the Cabinets of the ^Carnegie student branches ot "are’yrU."and"Y "W ‘07 IT’it the home of Mr. Rollin V. Davis, executive secretary, 5064 Forbes street. At this meeting tiie Cabi­nets will be the h06t. to the Carne- fiie Cosmopolitan club.Mr. Everett Warner; associate professor of- painting. and ' design, "ill be the main speaker. In con­sideration of the -fact that there will be students from other coun­ties In attendance, lie. has chosen for his topic the “International ArtInhibit.-Tho purpose of this meeting; is to promote a spirit of good-will and ^Deration between the “Tf"> Cah- inftts and the group of foreign stu­dents at Carnegie.
Aatoalo G. Prendeg r37, aDd Lou­ise ,N Melxner '36, are In charge ofarrangements Cor the affair.„Oft Wednesday evening,.the Y.8N CN will sponsor a dinner ^n<ictilns in Recreation hall. Margar- 
Mnrrison. at 4:30- Rev -Charles
fPsaker:
The Fresh.man All-Carnegie Pànce, the annual informal dance sponsored by the freshmen of the
23. Robert S. Zeldman, president of the freshman class, 'College ot Fine Arts, is chairman of the dance, and LoulBe Pace, president of fresh­man class at Margaret. Morrison, It- co-chairman. Raymond Zelgler, president of the freshman class, College of Engineering, is chairman of the ticket committee.Others on the ticket committee are Eleanor Lowrey, Sara Hower, Sylvia Ravlck, and Adelaide Ascii- matin of Margaret Morrison; Wayne Beglin, -Manuel Trauten- berg, Walter Reid, Emery Komlos, Jr., William Otto, Willlard Benner, and William Gerhon of the College of Engineering; Gertrude Stephen , -Fred Adler, Regis Herrington.
The members of the invitation committee are: Dorothy Nulls .Jean Mair, and Henrietta Marsh. The reception committee includes Martha Jane- Fuller. Jan« Merrill. Ruth .Millikan, and Mary Belle Vilsack. The poster committee Is made up of Paul Karlem and Charles McWilliams. Florence Inghram will take charge of the publicityTickets will be on sale begin­ning Friday, November 9. chases may be made from the mittee or at the nY” offiae.. _ Serssai • estr-as -.. base.. .he«n.contacted, but no definite selection 
has been made.
Theatre Guild Offers 
Reduced Ticket Rates
Students can obtain reduced rates for “Valley Forge," the play by Maxwell Anderson that is being produced by the Theater Guild al the Nison beginning next Monday.! Mr. Anderson is the authpr of “Mary of Scotland," which appear­ed hero last- season, al6o of “Both
In the cast of -this play Philip Morivaie; Ruth Weston, George Couiorin, and Reginald Ma-
matinees. Prices .range from ?.o5 to $2-20. while regular bos office prices are from. $.“' -,e mmay. be < ARE In Arts
be obtained irom Mr. Ken'
Hold Carnegie 
Day Exercises 
November 27
Correspondent of London 
Times Will Deliver 
Annual Address
The annual Caraegio Day se 
ices will, be held November 27 
the Carnegie Music Hall, sir Will- 
mott Harsant Lewis, who is Wash- 
igtoo correspondent of 
don Times, will be the guest
Sir Wlllmotl was bora in Cardiff, 
South Wales. June 18, 1877, and ecoived his formal education English schools and on the. Con- nent.
He served for a number of a foreign correspondent in .the
the Chinese Revolution.. Fro] -17, he was in the Philippine Islands, editing the Manila Times. During the latter part of the World War he was in France, and was as­sociated with the. New Ycrk Tri­bune In Paris in 1910. Since 1920, he has been the Washington cor­respondent of the London Times.
Several distinguished honors have been conferred upon him s. He ’ Knight Commthe British ___ . ____ ....decorated a Chevalier of the Legiou of Honor in France, and also wasnedals by Japan andGreat Britain.He is u member of four clubs, the National Press in Washington, the Devonshire in London, t Shanghai in, China, and the Naj
268 Students! 
Find Positions 
Under FERA
Chapel Speaker.
Employment- Offered 
Both On, OS Campus 
Varies in Wages
$3,653.05 WAS PAID- 
DUKING OCTOBER
Federal Work Types Include 
Laboratory, Rcscarch, 
Drafting Surveying
The Octobcr report of the Fed-: 
eral Emergency Relief Administra­tion shows a total of 268 students now employed at Carnegie, 8.818^ hours of work credited, and ?3.- 653.OR paid in wages. Of the 268 on the'list. 85 men and 62 women were among those already regis­tered in Carnegie on January,.1, 1934, while 97 men and 3'4' women' were not registered at that time.
The .positions available to stu* dents are grouped broadly into, two divisions: the intra-mural, or those connected with the campus and the Carnegie Institute; and .the ex*, tra-murai, including positions.- op> t.lrely separa.te from, the campus./
In the intra-mural group; 136 re­ceived office or clerical work; S, library and museum; 33, laboratory- assisting'; 24, research assisting; 3, reading and grading papore; 3, map surveying; 8, drafting; and 2, bibliographical work. This makes i> total of 214. wih 7,060 hours of work, and $2.945.75 in wages.
The extra-mural division is the smaller, with 51 employed, 1,758% hours speut in work, and $707.30 paid in wages. ¡From the. four fields available, 1 worked in recre­ation; 3, in education; 47, in of­fices; and 3, as truck helpers.
The salary rate9 ppld these stu­dents vary from 40 to 50 cents per hour, so that 30 to 37% hours of work are required to net the stu­dent 315.00 a month. No studenl may receive more than $20.00 e month, work more than 30 hours ii any one week, or more than 8 hours
Ass’n of College Editors
¦Questions Hearst’^ Policy-
Speaking for Younger Generation, It Asks Hearst 
To Answer lté Questions, The IssueBeing 
“Nationalism versus Internationalism”
: {Jniveristy, Kansas, and last year. •.^livered,t.^.'--i3s at his AIPittsburgh two years ago from
My dear.Mr. Hearst:
, In avrecent interview, you challenged aíl Americana:
If. Americans have not lost their common sense and bal­
ance of judgment entirely, they will stop following sweet King 
ers' and smooth-talkers some day and settle down calmly and 
reason out a few things for themselves. ’ ’
'The, Association of College Editors, as stated in Its Cove­
nant, is dedicated “to stimulating tfic interest of Gtudehts 
throughout the world in promoting international understanding 
and co-operation in the hope of utlimately achieving and ensur­
ing international peace and security ...”
A number of'us are settling down calmly to reason a few 
things , out for ourselves. It struck us that one of the most 
pressing of today’s problems is the controversy between 4 
tionalists” and “internationalists.*'
You may. recall-that Beverley Nichols recently wrote a 
book called, “Cry Havoc.’* Determined!'¿iidelve to. the '.bottom 
of the controversy between “internationalists” and “national­
ists,” Beverley Nichofs hit upon the idea of bringing together 
a recognized spokesman for each side. -•» f,v. ¦
Sir Norman Angelí, probable winner of the Nobel Peace 
Prize for. this year, was selected and consented to brief the case 
for internationalism. Lord Beaverbrook/ ownef of the London 
Daily Express and associated papers was asked to state the case 
for nationalism.
,-Lord Beaverbrook wrote to Mr. Nichols: “If you will get' 
Angelí to ask me questions, I will answer them. ”
Sir Norman Angelí drew''up,''à'''sèt,'ot,''qü‘€gt1ônâ',,,',à''',eross- 
examination of nationalism. Nichols sent those questions to 
Lord Beaverbrook. ,
It strikes a great many American college editors as a sing- 
alar and significantfact, that in the wording of those qüestions, 
the word “AMERICA” may. be substituted for the word 
“BRITAIN;” the name WILLIAM RANDOLPH. HEARST 
may be substitutedvfor the name “LORD BEAVERBROOK,” 
w-iihout--aUsriag -the.--siïiri.t--ôf--tfc^-qi2«i?tiJ3nsjr.Avitiioüt Jjess«r '~_ 
the tremen'dous importance to our generation of having au 
*wer to those questions froin thç most intelligent"champions of 
nationalism.
Through the courtesy, of1 Doubleday, Doran and Company, 
publishers;of “Cry Havoc,” we..reprint here the questions which 
Sir^Nofinan An^ll drew upv (the wo¿x3is iit.capití):l-letters, the«1 
substitutions ¿re mine, the questions of my generation) :
“I. DoesLWILLIAM RANDOLPH HEABST agree tliat if 
we piló oh oUr already shaken and disordered economic system 
the further dislocations, unpayable debts, revolutions,, which we 
now. know are the'necessary legacy of war and which so shook 
the; relatively souiid:systehl..óf 1914, then it will probably finish 
off the present order in chaos? ¦
‘ - “2. Is. it-WILLIAM . RANDOLPH HEARST’S general 
View that thé best'way to prevent that recurrence -is to' continué 
thé old armament, competitipn and decline to discuss interna­
tional agreement or organization ? If so, on what grounds does 
he believe that the old method will not produce the old result?
f*3. For a nation to be secure under the competitive prin­
ciple it must be stronger, than anv. possible, rival. sWkat.be- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Student Council Rules That 
All Straw Votes Henceforth
Must Receive Its Approval
Straw Vote Indicates That 
Clock Tower Is Undesired
Chiirch, who. will deliver dress i Little *drëss at the ehapel service In
Second Chapel 
Ik Sponsored 
By Sororitiesr‘How Shall I Acl?” Is 
; Subject of Address 
By Dr. Garth '
Dr. Schuyler E. Garth, or the Christ Methodist Episcopal Church, ttl speak at .the second chapel »vice of the year next Tuesduy ^ 12:30 in the Little Theater. Dr.for liis subjoct
About 650 S tudents 
Vote 3 to 2 for 
the Negative
nesilay indicate that a student- built Clock Tower on the campus )t‘ desired. The vote, which was held between 11:30 and 1:30 polls established In the three eating places on the campus, reach-
on the ballot was: Would you be willing to support financially the the proposed Clock Tower?. of .the nature of this type of'.voto and because of the fact that polls cannot be conducted
has c]io iw Shall 1 Act?” 
ttersorority Council is.of this service, and the De­partment of Music will contribute mjisical selections.
{Dr. Garth is not a new figure on thje campus, as -he spoke chapel service last fall. He also the speaker at the Suiwiso Service on Flagstaff Hill last ter In Schenley Park.
[During the war, Dr. Garth
phoohs which swept that few years ago.This is the second chapel Ice of the year to be sponsored by a campus organization. The next will be In charge of the JL O. T. C.
stimulate an Interest in chapcl services through the various pus groups.
Color Assembly 
Convenes Today
Celebrate Approaching End 
Of Plebe Regulations
The freshman class of Margaret Morrison will assume Its duties In the College at the Annual Coloi Day assembly which will be held today at 11:30 in the assembly
months’ period of plebe regulations.The program, which has beetf ' ranged bK_tbe members of the^Sen ate will be.as follows; ‘The Sen­iors, class of 1935,-will slhg Freshmen, the class of . 1937, march Into the assembly Following this greeting, Dr. Charles Watkins. Director of Margaret Mor- vison; -will speak. Then. Betty.Mc.- Gregor, president of tho junior ciass, will present flowers to Loulst Pace, president of the fresbmau class.- Miss Pace will introdui thg . class advisor, Mrs. Parker, and the freshman officers): Eleanor Lowrey, vice-president; Sara 'Ho' etarjr;..Sylvia Ravich.tia ..........-ntchairman.
Martha Denims, president of the senior class, and Eleanor Sherman, president ot the Senate, will pro-
i ns rigid inet- as. In iflcial voto, the results obtained must be disclosed in generalities.
Ratio la 3 to 2 ^Tile totnl returns showed a ratio of about 3 to 2 In favor of the neg- .^-The largest return came the Commons and the small­est from Skibo Inn. Both these places showed a result ot almost 1 for “no.” Tho Girls’ Dorm Dining Hoom In the Grill votod 4 to *3 favoring the negative while i downstairs Grill, which is open the .entire campus, brought the closest returns—the voting being
While the ballots w< counted, a batch of votes were discovered to be marked exactly alike, with the same motion and the same poncll. These were de­clared Irregular for obvious rea­sons and not Included in the count.
Students Make Comments 
Many students In answering tho question took the opportunity make'comments and suggeBlIone on the ballot. Some seriouslysug-
or that the money be used for other “more urgent” needs such as brai-y or scholarships. A didn’t bother to; answer either
be built "would It please chime 12:16 a. m. for the Dorm, girls?.” One Individual voted against the Clock Tower "cause if It sinks I won’t like entering ' the thing
Bureau of Mines.”
Tattle rs Play 
At Duke Dance
*Pöiitics'and Business9- 
Subject for Debaters
day, November 15” in fto6m 103, Margaret Morrison College.Olive Welsh ’37. Music, will be in charge of the meeting, and will give a general resume of the- ques­tion before the group, joins In an informal discussion.Several new members attended the last meeting, and together with the originial members,. Introduced themselves In a novel manner, telL*. ibg-.-what-thosi-expected..to. co.ntrlh: ute to the' society, and what .they expected’tt to give them.
A. S. M. E. MEETS FRIDAY
The A S. Mi. E. meets Friday-at 4 p. m.. In room-104. Industries. ;The Dean of Engineering- at Penn State will speak.
Grid Social Series Ends 
Saturday Evening
Carnegie’s last dance of the current football season will be held from 900 U11 12:00 in Thistle Hall Saturday, following tho- grid contest with the Duquesne Dukes.Bill LeRoy and his Town Tat­tlers have been engaged to furnish music for the evening. -This bund, a ten-piece organization, is now be­ginning its ninth year, of existence. The hand played during the sum­mer season, at Ludlngton, a North ern Michigan summer resort, and has a.relurn. booking next summer. Other than being the only organ?
Tattlers. have been lured at ;proma and house parties nt Bucknell. Penn, State. Grovo City, and Washington and Jeffer­son...Th^y .played this year for thiopenfng dances at Pitt and P. C W., ’ the first College Assoclattoi Dance, and tho Pan-Hellenic Ball.
Initial Radio Rally 
Precedes Duke Tilt
The Tartan radio program will be' on the air one-half hour (7:15-7:45) Friday to permit u special dedication
ployed Saturday. This will mark the first pep rally over the air waves in the history of Carnegie.Joe Buch, conch at Du- quesne, and co - captains Georgo Rado nnd Art Strutt will be guest speakers. Car­negie’s eleven will he repre-
pud .co-captnlns Lib Lewis and Dutch Croft. Music will be furnished by the Kiltio
Tho entire program Is un­der the direction ot Carl M. Dozer, who will do the an­nouncing. Al Heifer. WWSW sports commentulor,
Issue of November 6 
Severely Criticized at 
Council Meeting
CHARGES TARTAN 
WAS PREJUDICED
Forbes Hall 
Mother Dies 
After Illness
Mrê. Weaver’s Service 
Ended by Deatb; 
Work Praised
., „Mrs. £r&i»ces; P. Weaver, house* 
'mothfer of Forbes- ‘dTedT*fast' 
Thursday afternoon at the Presby­
terian Hospital after an Illness of
Mjs. Weaver had been on 
Carnegie campus for fourteen 
,years during which time she was 
in chargo of Forbe9 ¦ Hall, tho largest women’s dormitory. At the 
time of her death she had been in 
her position longer than any 
other ho'use-mother on the campus. 
During these years she has worked 
hard - to add to the .comfort, well- 
being and general good of the stu­
dents under her care. Some years ,£go Mortar Board, senior'women’s honorary made Mrs. Weaver honorary member, an honor which she greatly- appreciated an which shd was very proud.
Mrs. Weaver was born In Mead vllle, Pa., but has nidde her home In Pittsburgh for many years, Tho
is a testimony ot the esteem In which she was held. Her death leaves a vacancy which cannot easily be filled.
F. IF.C.A. Elects 
Plebe Officers
The officers of the freshman Y. W. C.iA. Cablnet were elected No- vember 1, at ft. luncheon meeting at the Carnegie Inn. The oiHcera aro Katherine L: CoHius, Depavtroeul of Social Work, president; Kath­erine E. Garrahan, Department of
Prof. Cleeton Tells of Mob 
Psychology in Time of War
/
Dr. B. €. Clausen ts Lead 
- Safety Valve Forum 
At Next Meeting,
and "propaganda.-Ilis -prlGcipal.pur­pose was to arouse a questioning attitude in his listeners, and this he did at once by saying that war cannot be prevented by any of the proposed methods — disarmament, preparedness, balance of power, non-resistance, pacifism;' by - the League ot Nations, or by either, radicals or conservatives.These, he said, are simple form­ulas made to solve what is in real- lty.‘ ¿ .very complex- probtero. -.The: causes of war are deeply grounded In the habits and.prejudices of hu­man nature—as race prejudice and the struggle for power. : These basic-desires, when thwarted and raised to the crowd level -by :clever propaganda., lead inevitably to.,war.Prof ^-Cleeton maintained that
since propaganda, -through various emotional tricks',' ‘is "eftectiVS ¦" In causing wars, it can be .also used in combating them. Since human nature cannot be changed readily, and a super-government Is tlcally impossible, of development,
Propaganda mjuat fight propaganda, 'Prof.' Cleeton’s talk did arouse considerable interest, but there time only for a brief discus-
will bo continued later date. •. - Dr. Glausen. of the First Baptist ¦Church, will speak, .Thursday, at the regular meeting • At the' Safety — - - - - .r» ¦
Council Officially Calls Off 
Straw Vote but Later 
Rescinds Unofficially
A motion recommending “that no 
raw votes will be taken on-the 
campus on any matter without the 
approval of the Student Council/*' 
passed unanimously by Coun­
cil last week. This action ,grew 
report .mado before Coun­
cil by Regis Joyce, chairman of the 
publications committee, "that the 
November C issue of Ihe Camegi£i ; 
Tavtun had caused a great deal of 
adverse critlclspi, nnd that the 
editorial on llio Bell and .Clock Tower alone rcpudlatos' Article VIII of tho Student Council Consti­tution . .” which provldoB thatto restrain tiny action
General Assembly.Attempt to Question Action Mr. Joyce said that the straw..- voto as announced in the headlines of Tartan had been an apparent- altempt to question the action'of - Student Council In abandoning, at least temporarily, the Beir and Clock Tow or project' in lioifereuco-" to Immediately remodeling the* Brown House as a temporary activ- Ities building. Mr. Joyce ’-also claimed that the editorial, on^tlte Bell and Clock, Tower as proseated iii tho Tarlaii last week; prepara»- tory to running the straw vote, ht>d written In a unprejudicedlat If this -
'artan bad "¦< :•»"of Studont-.Councll, -the T tict'ecl'coirtrary’to'theCounclVdon*' stltutloh. •Council! states Pros and Cons - Discussion among the membera of Council brought out the fact that the student body had not been able to hear Council's arguments, pro- and con, on the subject of .the'Beli.- and Clock , Tower, namely that'.vwhereas the Tower would it be-
thousand dollars which have been contributed lo th'e endowment fund- for an activities building, are availa ­ble at this time-; and..that the- Brown House could be appropriate^ ly remodeled within the amount «C available funds and In a compara­tively short time. This monev will not be lost to the fund, ae part of the fund may be in buildings and Improvements. It was also point-
the latter meeting i the' motion be tabled.Publicity Prejudice«
out the Approval of student Coun­cil. - Further discussion agreed " that to all appearances the pub'* llclty in last week s Tartan. prejudiced, and that further and:.
poned until such action -Is taken -
jr, after some discussion between the editor of the Tartan and sew eral members of Student Council; , permission was given, unofficially,
Tau Beta Pi Bids 
18 Uppercl/issmen
tbree-iumora and ls. seniors as a result of interviews -: held recently. 'These men will: be'- Initiated at a ceremony- and ban** 
quet"-'which will be held In the ' .Faculty club room next Tuesday.''To- be eligible for interviews tho-r juniors must have a scholastic ' standing within tao upper eîghth^t.^:
;lng:lB the list of men to whom bldp:^ were extended v *_ JuniorsT-rR. W. Dennison. -L. Wi.v Ingold, J. K. McKee. Seniors—-D.;- L. Ashbaugh. W. E. Bayers.Born. H. E. Fitzgerald.-GIS W. Her-> ron. A. R Kommel, H. L. King...Ik /. A. McConnell, P S Mellinger J AV Patterson. F. . H. Rath ufc A Thomae J. W. Wagengrii. and It . 
E Warren

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 13, 1934
3Eht dTartuijVe 3Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2
-BOY. MINET
COPY EDITOR: Ri HEAD EDITOR: G' 
. JUNIOR EDITORS:
SPORTS STAFF:
BUSINESS STAFF:
CIRCULATION STAFF:
Robert Robleon.
___________JEROME HANSON_____„„MARGARET- GRIFFIN______HERBERT F. SCHWARZ_____DUDLEY D. PENDLETONi: V«ronica Kloog. Anna Ladd. Jane
^ Defense of the Straw VoteH
OW THAT the results oí the Tartan 
Sira«- Vote aro known we can feel as­
sured that student Council had carried out 
the wl6her. oí the student body in abandoning 
the CKkx Tower.
. Why, then, did Student Council at its last
• meeting criticize the Tartan adversely tor TUES 
. ducting the poll?
i The straw vote was an expression of opln- 
, ,j°n on the matter. It was the only attempt 
,o ascertain how the students themselves felt 
about the Clock Tower. It was a matter 
;wiiich concerned every student and about 
. .. , which every student had an opinion. Trying [ 
Jo fill its logical role as the voice of the stu- I 
• dents the Tartan took the initiative to collect | 
those opinions and provide an outlet for them. I 
It was not being presumplloug when it car-.I 
ried out one of its primé duties—the arousing, ^
. obtaining, and expressing of sludent opinion! 
..-.It-did not attempt to change any rulings by 
of a straw vote. The straw vote is tin- 
• .official—and it is the prerogative of any news- 
paper or magazine in this country, which en- 
. joys "freedom of the press," to use it. when-
Council accused Tar.au ol acting contrary 
. : to Constitution In attempting to question one
• of it's acta.
; .There Is no provision In Council'» Conslllu-
i 11 Pr n e constitution of any democratic 
ÎUi0**™** prohibits anyone it repre-
OTn WeaUoolng its acts.. Student Coun- 
presents the student«. Therefore it is 
:.tte right of any. student, and particularly so 
Kv^-®e?8paper of the students, tp question the ^o^erning body that represents it. if that 
jv^Móes not exist, then this is not democ- 
f it la oligarchy.
' • ;:Co&nciI further confused the issue when
.j, . 'itey failed to differentiate betwéen referen- 
aDd atr*w TOte- It claimed that the r.: /.¿{raw TOte Wû3 out of order because It didn’t 
iv.-concur with Article Vlii which slves the prop- 
ij- method /or a referendum, the method to re*
rjj-^íBtraiQ an act of Council. But Tartan was not 
interested in restraining any acts, of Council.
: ït-merely was trying to ascertain whether the
A students thought that Council had acted in 
’ .their best interests. 
fcÜ A referendum carries legal weight. It either 
joverrides a rule and creates a new one or sup- 
the old one. It is direct legislation by 
fj'v/. , ' the people. But a straw vote has do legal force 
¡W-. nothing but indicate opinion. It nèith-
[p.1 ehan^es old ,aws nor creates new ones.
A ffew ye3” aeo when prohibition was in ef-
tfie Literary DfgeBt conducted a straw 
rp..: .:;-v6te to ascertain what the people thought of 
£ Prohibition. Did President Hoover or Con-
ii CTÊS6 then damp down on the Literary Digest 
l^ v for presumme to question an act of Conejas
dld the resulta of that straw vote favor- 
-,£* 8t™ttgly the "wet,” override any laws and 
!i;V-."reTolte Prohibition. How could it when it was 
•vj' • ^erely an expression of opinion which the Lit- 
Diffeet had. taken the initiative to arouse 
'•• vn^ provide an outlet for?
studeat Council deemed it proper to call 
k ihe )ast straw' vot* and to pass a ruling giving them power over all future straw votes, 
fe ^en pressure had been brought to bear they 
Toto to *• taken' thereby admit-
^..V;-.lag that their action wa» ujijuatifled.S'* In. á®*ldin8 lo run this straw vote the edi­
torial board followed this line of reasoning: ' 
Last year’s Student.Council considered 
•: the Clock Tower of sufficient merit to recom- 
•" meili 10 this year's Council that work be con- 
tlnued on it 
-;^.(b) Last year’s editorial board considered 
ihe project worthy enough to advocate it 
in its .columna.
~r5 Tc-) 'rfiiY yeàPâ*-c«üli^tjWïm--tU-e..IIl^,. 
£££$• ,s itt power so it rejects it. It has its 
rreasons and they are good ones. *
-(d Members o£ this year’s editorial hoard al- 
feR.0*?«“ «*• Project Individually hut as a col- W2&J- ^ i‘=WS. "Here is a compute reversol 
"'ÜLü®! Z '»“««'»o which te oí 'i.TO,n-f
 ance to every student. It-Is a point o( con- 
»»“«H the sfiidefits have never 
-^n.?ulted* ^WTiy not consult tbem?- wiiv 
FÍi’éther' they want it or not ” <L 
' ' *3*. CoUflc11’0 reasons for voting down the' proj- 
&l! t6e areumerits in favor of it 
br ^‘.»^ponente-.were stated clear- 
Iyiin last week's issue. Every known fact 
^^B^Çloç£Tower, ite history, its purpose,
^‘ii'S^.-i^res coocenüng.it were àïVllHèâ'sô ag
siS“ 1?i0m tte students completely. . The ^^Board adopted a neutral attitude on .the poll 
1 -!t cl6axJy expressed In ita editorial lastwe quote: "Tbe Tartan acte 
*|W.-^'e.ût'lTeIy; neutral1. capMlty in the' natter.
t¿aty iasti'ÿeàr’«-'«di-
• poses the-.project." .
Yet we'were severely criticized for being 
prejudiced in favor of the Clock Tower.
Student-Council; further confused the issue 
when they made it appear as though It were 
a choice between the Clock Tower and the 
Drown Hou^e as an activities building. One 
has nothing to do with the other. They arc 
two entirely separate things. . There is no 
question of choice. The Clock Tower u*as to 
have been built with student funds raised for 
the purpose. The activities bui'-Mng was to 
have received Council appropriations. If it 
was so desired both could have been carried 
tin at the same time. We were Interested at 
present only in ascertaining whether the stu­
dents' wanted a Clock Tower and If so would 
they be willing to pay for It? Their decision, 
even if It were official and did carry weight, 
could not have hampered action on the Brown 
House. '
Because of all these charges and as a pre­
caution to prevent . any recurrence of last 
week’s events, Student Council deemed it wise 
that they assume power over all- future straw 
votes. Thereby they commit an act that is 
contrary to the American principles of “free­
dom of the press" and "freedom of 3pecch.” 
Th*elr rule is all embracing—"no straw votes 
on any matter can be taken without the ap­
proval of Student-Councll.’’
And with that Council not only trespasses 
on a sovereign right of the newspaper by tak­
ing from it tbe right to make the, decision ns 
to whether Council be questioned, but It also 
imposes the same restr.ction on every student 
on the campus. It appears very much as 
though Council, In their indignation over last 
week's issue, rushed through a law that seems 
to choke out any attempt to question its ac­
tions—a law that has no place in a democratic 
form of government.
Writers’ Row
THE LADY AND THE LITTLE GIRL 
At first the little girl had not noticed the
only natural that a little girl’s attention
n'liere hundreds of delicate ribs arched themselves back and forth across the roof; it wandered down the brightly ' stained wludows with their interlacing
> the one where the little girl herself \ sitting, and up to the very person next to her. and then it stopped.The lady, oblivious of the little girl’s
ing cheek, and the little girl had to slide slowly and carefully' over tbe polished' seat and then sneak her head down and slightly before she could
’ very, very lovely she is.”It was nice just to sit and watch her with her pretty clothes and her. face so smooth and white. It was nice to be small and to sit'down low beside the'lady hem­med in by all the people ' looming up
S. o. s.
T
HE COMMUNITY Fund drive for $2,6l5,- 
120.00, of which Carnegie aims to contri­
bute $6,000.00, merits the support of each and 
every Carnegie sludent and staff member. The 
welfare of more than 130,000 families In Alle­
gheny County depends upon the success of this 
year’s campaign. Never before has It been so 
essential that the drive succeed, that the goal 
of $6,000.00 be rcached.
Tbe government is providing food and cloth­
ing to tbe families of unemployed workers In 
Allegheny County. But there are other needs 
just as vital, needs which are not being met 
by government relief money. In short, the 
agencies of the Community Fund starts in at 
the.vllal point where the service of the public
The Community Fund Is a good investment 
In public security as well as a contribution to 
humanity. No commmilty can afford to risk 
the loss of public security and tho loss of 
health services to those people who have suf­
fered most from the depression.
We Celebrate Armistice Day
For two days most American business houses have closed their doors to celebrate the 16th anniversary of thè signing of an armistice that brought an end. to the most devastating war ever waged by man.
One might suspect that a day which.marks the termination of four years of slaughter, and destruction would be set aside not to resurrect the "glories” of war but tò pledge ourselves to do everything In our power to prevent the re­currence of another such disaster.
But what do we do? We start off with a pa* rade led by the local marine band, if such is available (If one Is. not. the No. Ì3 Fire Com­pany Band will do very well)- and to the tune m&rllal music we send before the throngs
from the surrounding country that moved and' all the available cavalry, and Anal­ly endless columns of war veterans and those whose'patriotic fervor has led them to join the C. M. T. C. and the II. O. T. C.
'What youngster’s heart does not thrill at the sight of the well dressed men in uniform and the catching music? Would he not sive his most precious belongings to be himself one of
should leave in the minds of war Is glorious and that warriors are noble? Why not tell these youths on Armistice Day
them) were forced to flght under the threat of imprisonment and that they were spurred on in battle by false stòrlés òf ihe énemyVatfóci-
homeland, while the allies wi "war to end war" and “to make the world safe for democracy.M Show these youths that the preservation of democracy, assuming that it is worth, preserving, could not possibly balance the millions of lives and billions of dollars that were spent In its preservation.
I would like to propose what I should con­sider a truly appropriate Armistice .Day pro-I would start the day with the tradi­tional parade, but-1 would change it to. an in­dustrial. parade much after the fashion of the/ecent one in Pittsburgh, except that I would substitute BOldlers. of Industry for soldiers ofwar...l^oats'in 'the par^e'w6ulT's&bw''it'he''de-''pendence of the .United States upon tbe prod­ucts of other nations, the similarlty'of peoples throughout the world aad the utter stupidity and futility of fighting over differences cooked up by politicians and p'ubllclsts:
Other flcats might take the form of tabloids :«.bowing:tbe. vast ftmoivn.ts..of...mon.ey..aiid..li.v.es. involved In a war. . One might picture rows of soldiers marching ten abreast with a caption that inight read “If..a- colvimij of soldiers such as this were to march past at,the rate of ten rows a BiiHOTe'i' it'; woUint fakir,ten years Cor their number^ to, equal, those killed in the last watwthls Is the-army of the dead.”
The afternoon.and evening-of Armistice Day might be devoted to mass meetings which could be so timed that people all over the country would hear an address, by their presi- asaurhvfc tiitinvtH-sir- g<3«r-ersmerii-w-ss- working heart and soul for the international, co-operation, that-they desire.
fclntil we -make some- such .change in the' character of our ArmistiOe Day programs, they will* continue tir poison'our minds with the
"She’ll never notice me If I don’t move,” thought the little girl.The lady, her eyes fixed on the speaker, felt the little girl’s gaze but did not turn: "Perhaps she doesn't llkei my hat,” she thought with a smile.“It must .be a» very nice
just as old as me,” thought the little girl. “I wonder if I could ever be like that.” With her eyes she touched the ex­quisite dress, the hat, the shoes <
1 have mine off.” And she smiled.The little girl In utter adoration watched her smile and remembered all the pictures she had seen of fairies and enchanted princesses. The far-off voice of th© minis­ter came floating into her mind then, and
turned her head slightly:“Why,” she thought, "that funny little; child. I really believe she's trying to pull that curly little mop of hers down farther over hor ears like mine. It'll never; reach.” And the lady's heart laughed gaily with the little girl as her face lis­tened Intently to the sermon."Perhaps 6od maue her. beautiful be-' cause she’s so holy,” thought the little girl reverently. She sat up straight again and wondered if she would ever have a hat like that.“O.” laughed the lady to herself, "she’H pulling that ridiculously small hat down
The little, girl sat very still and folded her small damp hands in her lap... Suddenly a little wave of terror Bwept;
self making fun The service was ended. She turned quickly half afraid to meet two mocking
and she smiled down on the little girl: At - that the little girl's heart gave a thump too, alnd she beamed back' In a tiny' ecstacy. 'Tbe congregation was filing out now. * The lady and the little girl stood up and. stepped into the ais]e. ’"How tall she Is,.” thought the little girl, : "and how lovely.”“Lovely.” sang the heart of a young, man away In the back. "If only,” he thought sadly, “she were not so complicated and so hard to understand. How wonderful it would lie if she were simple and human
Oi th'e Aisle
íirQtróa Neyhart
Last Thursday night marked another tri­umph for the Little Theater of Carnegie Tech; with the opening- of a new play, “Glass Houses,” written by Rosemary Casey, the Pittsburgh playwright. Miss Casey alstf wrote "Love is Not Important," given at the Nixon last winter, and “The Saint's Husband,” soon
Ass’ii of College Editors 
Questions Hearst’s Policy
(Continued From Page One) 
comes of the rival? Is lie to go without defense? How shall 
defense of each be managed under this plan since the security 
of the one means the insecurity of the other? Docs WILLIAM 
RANDOLPH IIEARST think that there is some system by 
hieh each can be stronger than the other?
“4. -If, in order to be secure, AMERICA snust make her­
self stronger than a rival, does WILLIAM RANDOLPH 
HEARST suggest that that rival will accept the situation and 
not resort to alliance making? And if that rival makes alli­
ances, is AMERICA to refrain from resorting to the name 
weapon? An alliance is an arm, like a battleship, or a Bubma- 
adding to a nation’s power. Are AMERICANS to leave 
this arm entirely in the hands of prospective rivals? '
5. Prom the time of COLUMBUS TO LINDBERGH there 
has'not been a single century in which AMERICA has not been 
into the affairs of EUROPE. Does WILLIAM RAN­
DOLPH HEARST really believe that, if isolationism was not 
possible . . . even in ancient times, a great Power, a CREDITOR 
NATION SUCII AS AMERICA, in the days of the aeroplane 
continue to pursue isolationism?
“6. To keep AMERICA free of general or permanent com­
mitments and be guided by each circumstance as it arises, was 
the method pursued before the War. Although AMERICA had 
League Commitments in 1914 and men up to the last, WIL­
LIAM RANDOLPH HEARST AMONG THEM, proclaimed liow 
free their hands .were, America was drawn in. . Does WILLIAM 
RANDOLPH HEARST think that AMERICA could have kept 
out, that her entrance was a mistake?
If he thinks AMERICA’S entrance was a mistake, 
would he have regarded the victory of the Germanic powers, 
•eation, that is, of an hegemony so preponderant that 
AMERICA could not have resisted any demands that it cared 
to make.upon AMERICANS, as a matter of indifference? If so, 
why trouble about armaments at all . . . if it is a matter of in­
difference that combinations, much stronger than AMERICA 
should arise?
I. If, on grounds of national security, AMERICA cannot 
accept the preponderance of a foreign combination, why should 
AMERICANS expcct foreigners to accept THEIRS; especially 
their preponderance (the Allies) resulted in imposing upon 
their rivals a Treaty which MR. IIEARST himself refers to as 
the “UTTER INJUSTICE OP THE VERSAILLES TR'EATY)” 
On the eve of the War, Sir Edward Grey declared 
that the only possible alternative to the see-saw of the Balance 
of Power, by which the precarious defense of one was achieved 
by depriving the other of all defense, was for both to pool 
their power to sccurc the observance of a common rule of inter­
national life, like arbitration of disputes: To build up what 
Asquith called the community of Power behind the law. On 
wrhat general grounds does WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST 
differ from that view?"
Lord Beaverbrook replied to Beverly Nichols:
“Thanlc you for your letter, and the enclosures from Sir 
Norman Angell.
“When I said I would answer his questions, I had no-idea 
that I would be confronted with such an immense catechism. 
'It would take me a great deal of labor and time to an- 
the questions as they should be answered. In the busy 
life I lead, I do not have the opportunity to do so. It is too big 
a proposition for me.”
The significance, the importance of thosequestions^is in­
creased because there are TWO powerful men m TW^powenfuf j 
countries to whom those questions may be put as to ONE man. 
Particularly for that reason, they must have an answer . . . not 
for the readers of the newspapers of either Lord Beaverbrook
to.,,*
slightly Noel Cowardish, with something def­inite to say.-^It is spicy and subtly acid . . i nearly all of us come in for a good plot, for a comedy so light, is strong and well-threaded.
• The scene is laid at the Wilcox summer home near New York. John Wilcox is typical , who,__w____ _ias se;cured the rather doubtful social position of nouveau riche, aud is always fearful of losing
Gordon Tower, a young Englishman, in love with .loan Wilcox, comes to' spend a week-end’ at the Wilcox home, and succeedes in drag­ging several rattling good skeletons out of thé proverbial closet. To give away the plot would never do, as mystery runs rampant and............... ...
threads allis happy enough to-please Uie most incurable romanticist.
Miss Casey’s characters are well written and- very typical, and she has a knack of color that would do. justice to an older, and far more ex­perienced playwright. ' Most captlvatlngl thoiigh, are tho' well'^ b'tirbëd "rëmàrks ^'whicli those with a slightly “beh-heh1'1 mor will appreciate.
The piece is adimirably staged by. Chester. Wallace, and iiriases nothing- in the playing.. Nice performances were given by all members; of the cast.. Barry Mulligan, as John Wilcox, gave an excellent comedy performance, as did likewise, Thomas Koehler,. In the role of Gor­don Tower, the breezy, qulck-thinklng yoi Englishman. Janet Patrick, as Mrs. Wilcox/ ..a'as.-.smooib—ead-.dtnwt... .William Edgar, gave.a quiet but effective performance.' Joan Wilcox, played by .Mary Hughes, and Alden Smith, as Charles. Adams, rounded the cast nicely.
-The Little Theater, incidentally, can n< seem to accommodate the numberless persons who storm Its doors. at each new production, and It’s not because the-tickets are gratis, either., , |
Bob Potter of the Fair Oaks Club knows now what it’s like lo 
be on the spot. While strolling in the vicinity of East Liberty 
Joe's last Sunday A. M., he chanced upon a store robbery in tlie 
making.. And when toe bulls arrived on tbe scene he was nabbed 
along-with the. guilty parties. Several hours’ grilling-and the 
robbers’ statement that they had never seen him before, got him 
out and netted him a ride home in a cruiser.
The stork forgot to tip us off Hallowe'en night when he drop­
ped a little bundle, of joy into the arms of TydAl Jones Fix, 1927 
campus queen . . . It's a boy.
Fred Kelly rates our stunt-of-lhe-week cake for the fast one 
he. pulled -in the Temple game. It seems that the Philly tackle 
bad been roughing him up a little more than was quite necessary. 
Came a play through the other side of the line—"Punchy” quit 
charging,' scampered back, and planted a good one right smack 
on the big bully’s nose. He got away with it too.
Version number 6,739,279 of the perennial, gag comes in as:
“Who was that fiddle I saw you wltli last night?”
“That waa no fiddle, that was my wife.”—Pliooy.
TRAGEDY IN EIGHT LINES (COUNT ’EM) . . .
Your form is syjpb-like and divine/
Your lips are sweeter far than wine;
And tho a danger in them lies 
I see but romance in your eyes.
Your smile, your kiss, your ways are quite 
Enough to thrill me with delight 
But I must lead a bachelor's life . . .
Because you are my best friend’s wife.
A clever sign is tbat hanging in the tap-room of one of the 
local singing and literary societies '. . . It reads "IITYWYB- 
MAD.’’ If I tell you will buy me a drink?
Highland Gammon’s after the M. B. Friday night ... a high- 
school youngster flooring the house with VHere comes the 
CCC” as some of our ROTC lads and lassies dropped in.
FLASH . . . And just as wo go to press, word comeg that Patsy .Shannon and Paul Moore cracked up B. Archer’s Pontiac on 
the way home from Philly. But for a few minor InjurlAR the 
boys are O. K. But Bee’s car is a washout. Tough luck.
or WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST, but for US, the genera­
tion of young Americans who might have to ¦fight another war 
if Lord Beaverbrook and WILLIAM RANDOLPH HEARST 
happen to be wrong, if "PREPAREDNESS” does not preserve 
peace.
Yours is a tremendous influence in America.. More than 
any other man you represent the “Power of the Press.”- What 
you believe, you have the power to lead millions of other Amer­
icans to believe. That is why it is so tremendously important 
that you explain and defend “nationalism” as opposed to the 
“internationalism” embodied in the spirit of the League of Na­
tions, to those of my generation who are about to believe ... one 
way or the other. !
... ............... •••-•‘-v- - v ..youis v&T-y s'ineerelyi ................. .........---
FRANCIS. G. SMITH, JR.,
Editor, The Daily Princetohian,
President, the Association of College Editors.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13. 1934
COACH HOWARD HARPSTER’S WEARY PLAID WARRIORS staged a grand old fight against the revengeful. Owls in Philadelphia. The Temple aggregation had it all over the Scotchmen, of 'course, but the patched-up Plaid eleven did pretty well, if we make exception for the number of traditional faux pas the Clan is front to make.~he Clan made a great start oh the first play, and a substantial on the second showed that the high-spirited Tartans were taking work pretty seriously. But hopes of thrashing the Fox Whelps in arly minutes of play were dashed to bits when the old standby play, the pass interception, was called. Durned If it didn’t make the blood of us scriveners boil to have Warner’s machine repeatedly get into scoring position only after taking possession of the pill via a muffed Carnegie play.
hlcb clicked. They are a confident bunch of sophoi ave an eye a hid to the Rose Bowl; but they’d better wait a year.There were plenty of Carnegie men playing dandy ball against the nvls. Bill Spizak was certainly hot in skirting the ends and hitting tie line for substantial gains. Henrion excelled In getting down under .the punts. Pfttt looked Rood on the end-around. Carlson caught the ig pass and was downed only a foot from the marker. Mlbm mafn- ineil his reputation at blocking and kicking, and Doloway was equally
lid neck. Kelly was' noticeable in getting in a £ paVorderberg. Terebus and Chyznewski watched the gam &8tlieir injuries from, the N. Y. U. scrap yet unhealed. According to the largest appetites on the team, ijgbty fine place, especially for chicken and steak.
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
9 9 
BY JERRY HANSON
Convalescent Skibos Face Husky Duke Machine
, Atlantic Cily Is
t week’s frayEd Zanlheretofore exhibited unusual adeptness In campaigning |the field on the ground, but In meeting the Cowpunehers, who md brawny, they launched an aerial attack which nette hundred and eleven counts for HII1topp?r yardage.So, besides the national figure of Art Strutt, whose running abilityIs unbeatable, the Tartam/ill ha• lay for b.ombartIt looks pretty bad for the recuplng Skibos.
¡1 WONDER HOW MUCH THE SUCCESS Mary Wettach, who won lional Women’s Championship honors in rifle last year, had t'o do tbe large turn out of embryonic female sharpshooters in answe Sorg. Sumners' call in- last week's issue. Elghty-nlne strong thoy were, hatever the motive might be, it’s a sure shot that from that gie ought to have the makings of a pretty bang-up women’s squad in the next coupla years. Competition will be keen, and a crack jjteam is almost inevitable.The candidates for men's rifle composed a group of one-fourth the
recognition among the rifle moguls.
GOALIE KISSEL OF THE SOCCER TEAM 's tilt a Slippery Rock player brok gauged the best of locaj small college
lenty tough, for in lai
to 2 in twlods. The Plaid Booters dropped a similar game 2 to strong German club outfit. These soccer scraps make I nd ye scribe prescribes seeing that of today ;Shadyslde, and Saturday’sh the Munhall Alu uff old time pro,' hereabouts in refind teaches the !
Women’s Athletics
MARGIE GREEN
tennis court is coming ilong in fine shape. Some day ’hen you have some surplus time your bands with-nothing better 'ian loaf little jai e for yourself 
The W. A. A^ Board has appoint­ed Eleanor Sherman, Elizabeth Lowrey, and Dotty Booth
1. Length of period shall be one hour beginning on the half hour, as 8:30 to 9:30.
2. Each girl is limited to two reservations a week.
3. A player loses court if she does not appear within ten minutes after the scheduled
4. Reservations may be made
. If other players arrive, the court must be given up at -the end.-of'the hour. .HI. Reservations and Keys:1. A sheet for reservations shall be kept on the Bulle­tin Board in the Gymnasium
be kept In the office at Birch Hall; a second key shall be kept in Miss Rus-
i key from either office will be responsible for its re­turn, or, if lost, the payment of 25c at once..IV. Under no conditions shall men play on the court. Thjs in­cludes members of the varsity
the upkeep of the tennis court.
Carnegie Will Face 
Clicking Duke Force
CityRivals Have Ground 
And Air Class; Can 
Boast Victories
With a total of over three hun­dred points, in their favor for the season, .the Hilltopper aggregation Duquesue University may bo rated , as one of the most powerful minor teams in the country, and great favorites to win over Car­negie in the inter-city test in tho University of Pittsburgh stadium
Tartan schedule, it will have to do great deal of cramming to get into shape good enough to keep tbe
i only three contests F
hand, has had :
The Dukes' - wins include substantial balances, against De­troit and the Oklahoma Aggies, both of which are strong machines.There is one point in favor of the Carnegie team, in tbe compar­ative past records as they appear on paper. West Virginia beat Du-
Tartan Tankmen 
In Open Contest
Carnegie’sscheduled to compete in its first meet of the year when the P. A. A. and the Tartan splashers hold ap individual meet. It is not a regular contest, but rather a warm­up for both, squads and it Is some­what pre-season.
Those who will swim for Carne­gie are Holiday, whose work in the backstroke is very promising; Von der Lancken, breast : stroke; Leavitt, Dennison, and Derdyne In the. frce-style; and Bright in the diving.
¦Coach Risedorph has been send­ing his men through workouts for some Ume and the coming meet will be his first opportunity to see them under Are this year.
The meet is not limited to mem-
West Va. Trumps 
Carnegie Plebes
Tartan Freshmen Weak on 
Ends; Line Is Strong
the strong West- Virginia froeh eleven. The score was 26-0 in favor of the home team, due chiefly to a smoother attack and a wealth of reserve material.The West Virginia plebes playod a wide-awake‘game and took ad­vantage of tbe breaks to score one touchdown, which was thé result of an interference decision against Carnegie near the Plaid goal line With the ball in scoring position, the Mountaineers lost no time io punching over Tor a touchdown.The other scores came after re peated line plays. One was made on a 'triple lateral forward pa that had the Skibo plebeB baffled.center of. the II Inrned in a creditable performance, but the ends had trouble In slowing i the well planned and fre- t end runs' of the Mountain- Most oí the Important gains, in fact, were around Car end positions.Early - in the game Kopsak
much better ball than they showed Saturday. That they were not playing lieads-up football was
Mass. They have become such - menace that the student govern ment is forming traffic rules..
TRI-PUB. STAFF MEETS 
Meeting of Tri-publlcations staff,
in the money for directories.
your bank 
as you would choose 
a friend
MELLON NATioiNAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh,¦
FREDDIES’ CLEANERS
“For Better Tailoring"
772D Fraiketown Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.
DRESS MAKING’AND 
ALTERATION MRS. ANDERSON
S176 WOODLAWN AVENUE Corner Forbes MAyflOwer 8543
THE LADYNEI LDGADRGCO
CHAS. M. HIGGINS & CO., 2719 th St, BMy*. HT.
HIGGINS' 
DRAWING BOARD 
& LIBRARY PASTE
Tartans were able to break the jinx in N. Y. U. two weeks ago, the injuries sustained recent- id given the good forr ist the Violets, < should have the edge <
the Scottish ranks aro somewhat off-set.
But the Dukes are big, tough, and agile. They are paymasters through the line or around the ends, and their exhibition against the Oklahoma team showed them e excellent executors of the pass, defensively as well
Tartan Harriers 
Swamp Opponents
Giolma Takes .Easy First; 
Snots Get Five Places
making a clean laces the Tarlan defeated the Westminster harriers to the tune of 40-15. The: was no doubt at any time during the race ns to the outcome of the meet us Coach Halferty’e charges immediately took the lead, and held It throughout.Frank Giolma, the mainstay of the Plaid runners, captured first place with the excellent time of 24 minutes flat. Second, third, fourth, and fifth places went to Babli!, Kocb, McMahon, and Beal respec­tively, all of Carnegie. Sixth and seventh places went to Davis and George of the TitansCoach Halferty was very confi­dent CW his outlook on the remain­der of the season. Next Wednes­day, at 4:00 P. in., the team meets Pitt’s squad on the Schenley course.(Last week also saw the Plebe team lose a- heart-breaker to Pea­body High. Although Pinkerton and Lyngheim captured first and second places for the Skibos. the high school boys bunched the next five men to eke out a 28-27 victory. Next Thursday will see tbe fresh man squad compete against the
Crippled Scots 
Drop to Owls
ReveDge Meted Tartans 
For Past Upsets
OWLS DECEPTIVE
Several Regulars Unable to 
Play. Due to Injuries
the first play, Bill
arouud right end for the first
On the next kick-off. Spisnk grabbod the ball and rau 35 yardu from his own goal line. Four plays laier Milim booted to the' Teiuplo ton.' The following exchange of punts lost Carnegie five yards, and
5!5. but Templo temporarily.
Mowery Scores Thrice 
Early in the second quarter. Smuckler hammered his way to Carnegie's 46 and tossed a long pass to Mowery on the twenty; he trotted over for- a touchdown.Splsak on the Tartan 21 early in the third period, and C double pass to Mowery netted the Owls another marker.
Later In the quarter Spisnk threw a long pass to Carlson for n 33-yard gain, its success led to another
Pass Scores for SkibosEarly in the fourth quarter Charlie Splsak hauled down n Tom- i>le pass on his own 49-yard line. On Bill Spisak’s second attempt, Carlson received a pass ou tho 25 and dashed to the eight. Douglass plunged over for the score.Temple then ran the kick-off back to the Carnegie 40. . In ten plays the Owls, rammed ovor an­other. touchdown to briug the scoro to 34-6.The Skibos held off the last pi In-
start tho gome minus
free transportation service for <
hitch-hiking atter Q p. :
The scores for the first five men 
on the Carnegie varsity rifle squad 
in the timed practice on Novem. 
ber 10 were as follows: Broad*
head, 276; Melllnger, 27PS Dervaes, 
269; Cullen, 262; Close, 267.
NOTICE
Thero is only one orig-. 
inal Al Buhl and Ins or­
chestra — originally the 
“Red Peppers” — in the 
city of Pittsburgh., Any 
other orchestra or orohes- 
tra booker usiug this title 
is making; a malicious mis­
representation.
AL BUHL
5607 Bryant Street 
..MOntrose 6911
Wtm.OM.Aa OLDE STORIES i TELLEN US.THER WAS AFUL OFTE A-DA'í HAN THISE THEBANES TWO TOGIDRE V-MET, AND VJROG
THE SMOKERS TALE
TELLE THE TREWTH, LVK A SMOKE THAT'S MVLD AND MELLOWE/7
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
THERE are two reasons why Prince Albert is called “The 
National Joy Smoke’* by pipe smokers. The first—it is a 
secret blend of choice, top-quality tobaccos. The second— this excellent blend is treated by o spccial process which 
absolutely removes all “bite.” Get a big red tin of "P. A.'* yourself and find out bow good your pipe can really taste.
HIGNS' DRA'IW
—THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKEl
C. S. EDMÁN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5823 FORBES STREET
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes . Oakland
INDIAN
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
York $1,50 $13.50
Chicago... 8.50 15.30
Detroit..5.50 9.90
and
all points from coast 
to coast.
, For further 
information call
COurt 9500
§11
*
CAMEL’S COSTLIER TOBACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!
¡SB

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1934
THE 
CARNEGIE 
PLAID
Public Service
the exact difference betw publican and a Democrat ^vas great in former years, but because at this time the Democratic' Party represents a virile, up arid coming group that has thrown tradition by the board. Tradition; yes, inso­far as the Democrats hare develop- ‘ • system of politicalain offices, nor have mey iui uuve forgotten that, ‘[tho party” is their Alcoran and'tiospel, but, an experiment in "which, they have attempted to perform; ¿ serv­ice to which tbe average cltizkn is not accustomed. And that is, as
•Inured may reek of the waiter’s thumb. But, none the less, the great majority of the New Deal­ers are sincere. Naturally, as hu­man beings, ninety-nine and forty- . four hundredths per cent of thorn are chiefly concerned with their own problems. However, if they allot to the public service one- tenth of their energies alone the lines our President has laid out, it is just possible that the citizens will be out of the depression before
catch up with and
That tbe clock tower Is still eking. At least, it is in the news, but that’s. not. saying It’s, in tbe Ion interested to learn -what disposition will be made of the idea. Yes, I have my own thoughts about tbe project, maybe they're ones, but tbe clock ticks on and time will tell.
That the activities building has sen dragged up again for more »nslderatlon. Wouldn’t It be swell we had such a building where ne could be sure of having a place
It takes a hundred >
they recover from
Welfare Drive To 
Be Made This Week
•The drive for subscriptions to tbe Community Fund is again getting: under way. The Night Student Council is co-operating with tbe Fac­ulty and ¦the Day Council in assisting towards the success of'the Fund’s campaign.
•" A letter from the President of the Night Student Council is being distributed. Attach-
¦ The ' Community Fund is doing great work throughout Allegheny County in it9 sup- "P'ort ‘of the Associated Char-
NIGHT LIGHTS
I departure from the
by the N. S. C. ...Things I’d give my last qu and" a 1932 campaign button to seeV-Those hard boiled engineers, Art Grim, Mac''Cheerleader” Mac- Dennott, Bill Vensel, and Bill Hardy, reciting sentimental poetry In public speaking class . . . Hal MicGannon's co-operative attitude is . cause for great rejoicing in the Council . . . Herb Stone had a tough time getting the men on hia ticket through . . . not ai ponent was even nominated.The first Council meeting opened with a bang ... Neil Blocbinger banged the table with his gavel : ; Al Lois almost shed tears (largely of the crocodile variety, I suspect) when he banded his keys over to Neil . . . "Can’t you let me keep this itsy-bitsy one?" he
Ball: Five dollars down and it’s •yours . . . for one performance only . . . Seven •new members' joined the melee . . . Three old -'ones Lofs, Lahr, and Becker, came ::to eay farewell . . . The TnisUe will be John Schurko^s b|g head­ache this year . . .
have bis sleep c
on “How to Spend Your Leisi 
Time" is false . . . Nic< that Engineer Malnwaring. whose
Things I never knew till . That the Langley Lab con­tains airplanes of ancient- vintage that the aircrafts class delights in tearine down and building up
. ringing hia trick- de- vice onlv causes chimes within the house (Unpaid, solicited, adv-t-ng)
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
First Council 
Dance Dec. 1
Students Offered Annual 
Thanksgiving Function
PLANS BEING MADE
You’re Telling Me?That somebody else noticed the untidy conditions of our campus bulletin boards. Fine, it may be possible, since the question bas been dragged into tbe open, that
3 results—nothing.
t this week we are havin yr but that doesn’t reli the strain of doing so: It’s this way, I t
Affair Will Be First Effort 
Of New Social Chairman
The Night Social Chairman is 
perfecting plans for tbe first inter- 
school social event of tho current season. Tbls will be the annual Thanksgiving Dance to be held on Saturday evening, December 1, in Thistle Hall, under the auspices of the Night Student Council. Tbls affair is a continuation of a tradi­tion of many years standing and has enjoyed great popularity in tbe past.
The plans for this year's dance
_ nal and the usual, be provided by one of the best of the local orchestras. The entire setup promises an evening of pleasant dancing and entertain­ment. Those who attended the '33- '34. Thanksgiving dance will re­member with pleasure.'the music and souvenirs which they enjoyed
when they can repeat their perience.
This is the first dance held un­der the supervision of Herbert Stone, the newly appointed Night Social Chairman, and he will ex­ert every- effort to make it a suc­cess. The experience Mr. Stone >btained last year as Assistant So-
Didja Notice
rHAT parking Is always
night school.THAT our Social Sec is still receiving catalogues from eom-
of, becausehis feed on accc of his red head.THAT the day studenl squelched the - Clock To< Looks like t
CathedralMansions
DINING ROOM 
/or SUNDAY DINNER
Newly Elected President of 
Engineering N.S.C. Veteran
WM. A. VENSEL
PUPPET ON SALE THURSDAY
Mr, W.A. Vensel Familiar 
Figure in Activities ' 
Of Night School
Mr. William A. Vensel, the newly elected president of tbe College of Engineering Is one of the few men on the night campus with more
tered Carnegie as an engineering student In 1924. Mr. Vensel has already received two acknowledg- lents of bis work at Carnegie. In 1927 he received a certificate in Architectural Drafting and In 1934 'as awarded his Engineering DJplo- la. He expects to receive his B. . In Mechanical Engineering tbls
Several years ago Mr. Vensel was called to the Phi Nu fraternity, an honorary fraternity that calls only upper classmen. He has been a very active worker 6»nce entering the fraternity and is now Past Seneschal.His active Interest in activities egan last year when he was cleci
office was rewarded Thursday morning, election in the College of Engineer- 
This issue features Rushing sea- ing when he was elected to the and will contain a whole page presidency. This confidence placed 
:omment by the co-eds on tbia
THE WODDLAWN PHARMACY
5200 Forbes Street
Specials
Ephredrine Inhalent Co............................. 49c
Colgate’s After Shave............................... 35c
Eversharp Pencil with Leads ..................... 35c
Schick (dry shaver)............................. .$15.00
College Diary—four years, $1 value........ 39c
Complete line Max Factor Toiletries
TRY—Our Luncheonette for a quick tasty bite
/iE?;-'-'r---
* ' r* ’ -r i
SiXI
'’I TELL YA 
NOTHING 
COULD GET AROUND 
THAT END EXCEPT A
mm v»s'
BUT YOUR
NEW
From..........
McKIFORD "V8”
^LEY-GREGG
447 NORTH CRAIG STREET
Any an d All M akes Taken in Trade
LIBERAL ALLOWANCE . . . TERMS TO SUIT
USED CARS 
I ifV#** Late Models To I W KJ Select From
?25 to *2500 Twr
USED CAR DEPARTMENT
5838 BAUM BOULEVARD
that Ed Noiget Is <
Can it be 'Stillwaters run deep - fellows Tbe Council’s favorable balance of is- -til* MghMt -otsweand the ,nd highest "sincS- its__ . Babies take a bow^Roita-Berkenbush got her •dv.fbunged up when her ca ¦ skidding and a couple of trees walked and stopped
Kaway with _ömr'oflbestaff . bers lwas made last week hi
the cigarette that’s MILDER, the cigarette that TASTES BETTERJ
