TARTAN
Volume 66 — Number 4Wednesday, October 5, 1966
Sociologist Begins 
Falk Lecture Series
Edgar Z. Friedenberg, widely-published Professor of 
sociology at the University of California, at Davis, will open 
the annual Falk lecture series next week with two speeches 
and an informal student discussion session.
He will talk about “conservative 
values and student unrest” next 
Tuesday at 4:30 pm, and “Em­
piricism and Benevolence as Fac­
tors in Aggression” on Wednes­
day at 4 pm. Both’ lectures will 
be given in the GSIA Auditorium.
Wednesdy morning at 13:30 am,
Dr. Friedberg will hot a discus­
sion group in Margaret Morrison 
107. The speeches and the discus* 
sion are open to all Carnegie 
Tech students.
Friedberg’s writings include 
such . books as “The Vanishing 
Adolescent, Coining of Age in 
America, and The Dignity of 
Youth and Other Atavisms; and 
articles such as “An Ideology of 
mations of Morality in the litera­
ture of Public Education.”
He took part in the U.S. Office 
of Education’s Project 787, study­
ing “why successful students in 
the natural sciences abandon ca­
reers in science,” and wrote a 
paper at the University of Chicago 
titled “Self-Perceptive in the uni­
versity—A study of Success and 
Failure Among Graduate Stu­
dents.” In all he has written five 
books, 30 articles, and 20 re­
views.
The Falk Lecture Series also 
features talks in November and 
December by a noted anthropolo­
gist and a philosopher. Professor 
Weston La Barre of the Depart­
ment of Sociology and Anthropolo­
gy at Duke University will speak 
at Carnegie Tech on November 
15 and 16.
Abraham Kaplan, Professor of 
Philosophy at the University of 
Michigan, will appear here De­
cember 13 and 14.
Help For Frosh
Freshman having trouble in 
any course can attend tutor­
ing sessions starting Sunday, 
October 9. Sponsored by the 
Council of Fraternity Presi­
dents, Phi Tau Gamma, the 
junior women’s honorary so­
ciety, and Delta Skull, junior 
men’s honorary society, the 
sessions will be held from 9 
to 11:30 pm in Porter Hall 100.
Parrot Needed
The show cannot go on without 
a bird. The drama department 
needs a live parrot for its first 
mainstage production of the sea­
son, Richard Sheridan’s “The Ri­
vals.’’
Anyone willing to donate the 
services of his parrot for the play, 
which runs from October 20 
through 29, is asked to bring it 
to the drama department produc­
tion room in the basement of the 
College of Fine Arts. The donor 
will be acknowledged in the play­
bill.
Edgar Z. Friedenberg
Edgaa To Take 
Frosh In ’68
Freshmen will not be admitted 
to the new College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences until 1968, ac­
cording to Dr. Edward R. Schatz 
vice-president of student activi­
ties. It may be possible for up­
perclassmen to switch into the 
new school next fall, however.
Faculty committees are being 
organized to develop the academic 
programs and entrance require­
ments for the liberal arts school 
for men. More faculty members 
will be needed but the plans have 
not been finalized yet. The legali­
ties of the merger will be com­
plete by July 1, 1967, but will 
take one to two years to have a 
complete program developed.
The new college will be added 
without causing an increase in 
enrollment beyond the figure pro­
jected in 1962. The admissions of­
fice set this figure at approximate­
ly 4800. Carnegie Tech now has 
4000 students, so the increase will 
not extend beyond the expected 
amount.
SocilgstBel nFBs aBBiBskL 
uregB1gBl0 Soo19rcc 2s5c$kBk
Homecoming 1966 will present Simon and Garfunkel, popular folk singing duo, in 
concert Friday night, October 14, at Carnegie Music Hall.
Simon and Garfunkel have been recording their urban-oriented folk music since 
October 1964. Among their successful single releases are “Sounds of Silence,” “I am a 
Rock,” and “Homeward Bound.”
Seven Vie For Crown; 
Men’s Votes Elect Queen
A highlight of Homecoming Weekend October 14-15 
will be the crowning of the 1966 Homecoming Queen at the 
Friday night concert. Carnegie Music Hall will take on the 
glamour and excitement of an opening night in keeping with 
the Homecoming theme, “Give My Regards to Broadway.” 
The evening also will feature Simon and Garfunkel in con­
cert.
Elize Linauts, a painting and 
design major from Reading, Pa., 
is a native of Latvia. She hopes 
to become a cartoon designer for 
Walt Disney. Elize received her 
artistic inclination from her fa­
ther who is a stained-glass win­
dow artist. Although she favors 
Carnaby Street styles in clothes 
and music, Elize also enjoys clas­
sical and folk music.
New Coffee House
Starting this Friday night at 
8:30, the Highlander Room in Ski- 
bo will be converted to THE 
HOUSE OF THE RISING SUN, 
the Carnegie Tech coffee house. 
This should provide Tech students 
with a chance to turn Skibo into 
their own student union, accord­
ing to Len Wanetik, progenitor of 
the coffee house. This Friday, Oc­
tober 7, Bernie Dobroski and the 
Wolverines will provide Rag Time 
entertainment until 10:00 pm. Aft­
er that, all students are invited to 
bring instruments and themselves 
for a great time until somewhere 
in the vicinity of 12:00. Coffee 
and refreshments will be availa­
ble.
Seven freshman women have 
been selected to compete for 
Homecoming Queen. Voting will 
be October 10 and 11 to choose 
the queen and her attendants 
from the seven semi finalists. All 
men on campus are eligible to 
vote.
Dale Davies from the Carrick 
section of Pittsburgh is a history 
major at Carnegie Tech, but her 
heart is in the dance. Studying 
all forms of dance—ballet, jazz, 
and tap—since the age of three, 
Dale has traveled through the 
United States, including Hawaii, 
and Europe with various groups. 
While in London, Dale studied 
ballet under members of the world 
famous Royal Academy. Dale’s 
ambition is to dance professional­
ly and to teach dancing. But she 
realizes the uncertainties involv­
ed with a career in the entertain­
ment field and wants the security 
of a college education. Dale con­
tinues to mix her college and ca­
reer by teaching dancing classes 
every Wednesday night and Sat­
urday and by attending weekly 
dancing classes, in addition to 
her classes at Tech.
Jamie Edlin from St. Louis, 
Mo., currently is in the humani­
ties department, but she plans to 
become a drama major next se­
mester. She has done summer 
stock theater work in Maine and 
Missouri and hopes to follow a 
career in the theater. After study­
ing drama in England, Jamie 
would like to join a repertory 
company. She enjoys skiing and 
horseback riding. She thinks the 
worst human frailties are pessi­
mism and insincerity, and is im­
pressed by the diverse ambitions 
of Tech students.
Lynn Kushel is a home eco­
nomics major from Mai verne, 
N.Y. Lynn, who is fascinated by 
food, spent the summer “flipping” 
pizzas in an Italian restaurant. 
She recently demonstrated her 
skill at pizza “flipping” at Gino 
and Pete’s and immediately was 
offered a job. Cooking gourmet 
dishes, playing the 12-string gui­
tar and photography are Lynn’s 
main interests. She has traveled 
extensively through the United 
States, in Guatemala as ar ex­
change student, and through Eur­
ope when her family became an 
“exchange family” and traded 
houses for a year with a family 
from Vaucresson, France.
Randee Rafkin, from Forest 
Hills, N.Y., is a painting and de­
sign who hopes to become a com­
mercial artist or a teacher on 
the college level. Randee spent 
the summer painting scenery and 
working as a camp counselor. Her 
interest in art reflects her desire 
to observe and analyze minute 
(Continued on Page 7)
LINK Meeting 
To Organize 
Local Program
LINK, a program origin­
ated at Yale University to 
bring low - income children 
together with student volun­
teers in recreational and cul­
tural activities, is organiz­
ing in the Pittsburgh area. 
The first meeting of the Car­
negie Tech chapter will be 
held tomorrow, October 6, 
at 7:30 pm in Skibo.
In LINK four children (ages 8- 
12) meet weekly with a student 
volunteer. LINK groups are loose­
ly structured so that each lead­
er can devote as much time and 
effort to the program as he wants. 
They may visit museums, radio 
stations, or simply have a game 
of catch.
The LINK program in Pitts­
burgh was organized last year by 
two VISTA volunteers. Chapters 
are being organized in East Lib­
erty, Homewood - Brushton, and 
Oakland.
Interested students are urged 
to attend Thursday’s meeting. 
For more information, contact 
Ron Livak, A TO, 1091 More wood 
Ave., 681-9092.
Simon and Garfankel
Paul Simon, a native of Newark, 
N.J., and Art Garfunkel, a New 
Yorker, met in sixth grade and 
have been singing together since 
they were 14. Still in their early 
twenties, Simon and Garfunkel 
write and arrange most of their 
own material.
They have appeared at the Gas­
light and the Bitter End in New 
York City, in concert at Colum­
bia University and the Edinburg 
Folk Festival, and, abroad, at the 
Troubador and the Enterprise in 
London, and at the Streets of 
Paris in the French capital.
A new entertainment feature of 
Homecoming Weekend will be 
“Vaudeville Varieties” which will 
star Harry “Boogie-Woogie” Sher­
man, a vaudeville comedian. More 
campus comedians and novelty 
performers are needed to com­
plete the marque for the variety 
show which will be presented at 
three pm October 14 in the gym. 
All groups and individuals are in­
vited to participate. Interested 
persons should contact Marion 
Bauman at 521-4507.
The Fen ways, Pittsburgh’s lead­
ing rock’n roil group, will appear 
at the Saturday night dance at 
Skibo along with the Pharoahs. 
Homecoming Weekend also will 
include a Pep Rally and Bonfire 
after the concert and a parade 
to the stadium, led by the Kiltie 
Marching Band, before the Home­
coming football game with Grove 
City.
Tickets for Homecoming 1966, 
“Give My Regards to Broadway,” 
are on sale from 11:30 to 1:30 
daily in Baker Hall lobby.

---------------------------------------------------

Poge 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 5, 1966
CYCLE SHOP
2400 Sawmill Run Blvd.
TRIUMPH • 
MONTESA
The Headquarters of Enduro Champions
\vZJruth about Spr-ipa
< TECHNICOLOR' ^
j Giant Midnight Preview
I "THE PAD' !
Tuesday, October 11th, 12 p.m.
(See How To Use It!) J
* * 
* ? * ?
First 150 Attending in P.J.’s j
ADMITTED FREE! }* * *Price for this Show Only E
$100 Incl. Tax E
* 
*
FALL FURNITURE SALE
Bona fide discounts to 40% Off at nearby manufacturer’s 
showrooms: Lane, Broyhill, Bassett, Thomasville, Herman 
Miller, Paul McCobb, etc. Details supplied upon request.
Instant Room Beauty thru RUGS
Our rug selection has been described as 
"FANTASTIC!" Your inspection is invited.1000 9x12 RUGS — S15 to $59
also 6x9s, 12x15s, 12x18s, etc.
CHASE’S
Open 10 AM to 9 PM Doily
5432 WALNUT STREET
(Next To Shadyside Post Office)
DIAL 621-1025
ChoirPositiotisOpen
Students who missed the Cam­
eron Choir tryouts but wish to 
sing with the choir may still do so, 
according to the choir’s director 
Donald Wilkins. Looking forward 
to future expansion, Wilkins said 
that students who do not partici­
pate this semester may have their 
names put on a waiting list.
Wilkins, a Carnegie Tech grad­
uate, formerly with Duquesne 
University, said that this year 
the group added enthusiastic new­
comers to his ranks. The choir 
consists of “a lot of fine vocal tal­
ent and background.”
The purpose of the Cameron 
Choir was outlined by Wilkins 
as twofold. First, it gives quali­
fied people who are not neces­
sarily music majors an opportun­
ity to sing together for enjoyment. 
“The choir,” said Wilkins, “also 
promotes the image of the univer­
sity off campus” by singing for 
local high schools and Tech alum- 
ni groups, and by traveling to 
perform in other cities.
...........
STRAN
6*3-6992
! KAYLEY/JOHN/ JAMES
! MILLS 1HILLS ¦^ARTHUR
Also
“Charade”
ANNOUNCING the 6th SEASON
• Oct. 10—Balsam, Kroll, Neifitz Trio • Jan. 16—Borodin Quartet
• Nov. 14—Juilliard Quartet • Feb. 13—Guarnari Quartet
• Mar. 27—Fine Arts Quartet—David Glazer, Clarinet
All Concerts Mon. 8:30 in Carnegie Music Hall
STUDENT SEASON TICKETS: $2.50 for All 5 Concerts!
TICKETS ON SALE TODAY . . . FACULTY LOUNGE and FINE ARTS
Also on Sale . . . Room 100 FINE ARTS
¿liiliilMiiliiii ¦ iiiuiiiiiilHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii.iiiiiiiiitiiniiiuiiiiniinun'llniiiiiiHiiimiuiiie
3 MAJOR EVENTS-CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL (
THIS SAT. EVE.—8:30
RALPH VOTAPEK
I S. HUROK presents “ThehVaneie ti*..
| 1st Prise—-Van Cllborn Intl. Plane Award
5 Chopin, leethoven, Ravel, Moxart program__________________________
SAT. EVE., OCT. 15—8:30
GRANADA Of SPAIN
with 1STRELLITA ft RAUL ft their exciting 
Company of 15 Spanish Dancers,
Singers and Musicians.
"BEST SPANISH CO."—Pgh. PoitGazett*
'STANDING OVATION and BRAVOS'—Pgh. Press
SAT. EVE.. OCT. 22—8:30 
The Magnificent Brazilian BrothersLOS INDIOS TABAJARAS
Duo—Guitarists of RCA “Marl* Elena” Fame______FTVJ "BRILLIANT"—N. Y.Timet . J
"SPECTACULAR"—H. Y. Htrald-Tribune 
Special for *** htehy ft Student*—Tkkat* at 1 FOR TK PR 1C! OF 1 ¦
- Orchestra or First Bole. $5.95 Tickets—Phono Orders Only: 922-2030; 922-2031 |
*i iiniiniiiiiii.iiilHliiiiiliilMiiliilnl 'iiiiiiliiUi«iilii»ini!iiiiiiiiiliiiiilMiiiiNiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiii*iiiinniiiii!Siiiin
The Wrong Box, which is continuing a long run at the Shady- 
side, is the Victorian age the way Tom Jones was the Georgian. Un­
like the rowdy, lusty busty image of England which Tony Richard­
son cartwheeled onto the screen in Tom Jones, Brian Forbes has 
simply breathed life into a collection of Victorian tintypes and 
daguerreotypes by creating people who treat life with all the depth 
of a stereopticon slide.
The film was written by John Gelbart and Bert Shevelove who 
were also responsible for Broadway’s A Funny Thing Happened on 
the Way to the Forum. They based the screenplay on a story by 
Robert Lewis Stevenson and his nephew. The film does not patronize 
or condescend to Victorianism, but uses it to embellish the plot, 
which could be summarized as “a delightful thing happened on the 
way to the cemetery.” It all concerns itself with a tontine and two 
brothers trying to outlive each other in order to come into the ton­
tine fortune to pass on to their respective wards. The wards hap­
pen to be two greedy orphans who wish their uncle to outlive his 
brother only long enough to pass the fortune on to them, and two 
romantic orphans who somehow seem to forget the fortune as they 
discover each other. The whole affair ends at grave-side after a 
chase sequence involving three hearses, two coffins, one corpse, and 
one box of money.
On the way to the grave much in the way of 19-century 
mores and mortifications are illustrated. Sex is romance, which is 
a heaving breast under a lace bodice and a sparkle in the eye. 
Brian Forbes presents the equivalent of all the flesh-on-flesh love 
scenes by simply filming a man and a woman in a parlor, fully 
clothed and simply succumbing to romance. It’s charming in all the 
good meanings of the word. A wistful young lady almost wistfully 
suspects every noise as an attempt at assault. Certain words are, 
of course, not used, and eggs are, yes, somehow obscene. This after 
ell, was an age when an egg collection was not quite as eccentric 
as it sounds now.
Everyone in the film is so properly Victorianized that the cast 
of contemporary actors could be Edward Gorey drawings personi­
fied. The brothers are in reality John Mills, with flowing white 
beard, and Ralph Richardson, who quotes any fact at the drop of 
a sentence. The greedy orphans are Peter Cook and Dudley Moore 
who were half of the Beyond the Fringe gang, and the lovers are 
Nanette Newman and Michael Caine, who are properly silly, but 
never insipid. Even Peter Sellers appears in the film surrounded by 
cats.
Dancer To Appear
Miss Vija Vetra, choreographer, 
lecturer, and a master of ethnic 
dance, will appear at the next 
Carnegie Tech Assembly Program, 
October 11 at 11:30 am in Skibo 
Ballroom.
Miss Vetra has studied the 
dance in Vienna, Madrid, and 
Madras (India), as well as with 
Martha Graham and Jose Limon 
in America. Her performances 
include TV appearances in Eur­
ope, India, Australia, and Amer. 
ica. Her theater performances 
have brought critical acclaim 
throughout the U.S. and Europe. 
She has taught at several Amer­
ican universities including Car­
negie Tech, and is a member of 
the Faculty at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse School of the Theatre.
Chem Department 
Tours Today 4:30 
Doherty Hall
“A Delightful thing Happened on the Way 
to the Cemetery”
‘The Wrong Box’
by Stan Thomas
"SAllAh 
is hlNÎ"
Crist. Herald Tribune
"OllT'ZORbAS
ZoitbA!"-McCall s Mxgaxine
VoVlumStarring HAYM TOPOL
You can't talk to him sincc McCall' s said
Sallah out-Zorba's Zorba The Greek!"

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 5, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
in person
featuring NIPSEY RUSSELL
and introducing NANA MOUSKOUI
117 OAKLAND AVE
IS GIVING 
FANTASTIC 
GROUP DISCOUNTS7918 PENN AVENUE ** ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA
Through The Looking Glass . . .
Notes From The Underground
by Timothy Bay
The so-called underground movies reviewed here were shown 
last Friday night at the Ellis School Auditorium.
In America, until recently, when one talked about the American 
film it was generally accepted that one was talking about Hollywood. 
This situation has, within the last few years, greatly changed. That 
fabulous American phenomenon, Hollywood, has now found itself 
being broken up, transformed; and like a now-faded matinee idol, 
she has only her wonderful memories. There are two new actors who 
have entered the stage: the new independent producers, based mainly 
ir. New York, and the so-called avante garder or underground film­
makers.
A program of the works of these underground filmmakers was 
presented last Friday night at the Ellis School Auditorium.
It was a good representative sampling of these artists’ works al­
though it did not include the more colorful, notorious “homosexual” 
movies of Jack Smith, e.g., Flaming Creatures.
Happenings No. 2, the first film shown, was a bizarre, ramoling 
series of totally illogical, often comic, scenes. One saw old “surreal” 
scenes of people dressed in wrapping paper rolling around a paint 
splattered floor, and one marvellous scene of dozens of disembodied 
legs seemingly hanging in empty space.
There were a couple of other bits, in this transcription of a hap­
pening, that approached in their freakishness the inspired comic orig­
inality of the dadists. Next shown was a short, yet seemingly inter­
minable film by Marie Menken of repeating color patterns.
At times, suggestive of Op Art, the film exhausted the two or 
three good ideas it had, about half way through.
Andy Warhol, the P. T. Baraum of the Art World, was repre­
sented by his film Haircut. The title of this film beautifully expresses 
its plot (?); it is simply an unelaborate, completely static film of 
a man having his hair cut. I think that as a film, it defies any com­
ment or criticism, except that with the exception of Warhol’s eight- 
hour film of the Empire State Building, it is unsurpassed as an exer­
cise in futility.
The first half of the program ended, with Stan Vanderbeek’s 
Breathdeath. This is a collage-like film that comments on our so­
ciety by juxtaposing typical images of our “fun” culture with such 
things as shots of the Atomic bomb, while in the background we 
hear the inane cheerfulness of a rock and roll song.
To the credit of Mr. Vanderbeek this film is. more than just an 
“obvious” satire: there are several brilliantly imaginative bits, and 
the whole thing was done with great humor and technical exper­
tise. By this time, at least a quarter of the audience has fled, taking 
their raincoats and their sanity with them.
Next we saw The Brig, a filmed re-creation of the Broadway 
play of the same name. It portrays in harsh, objectively clinical 
fashion, within the limits of one day, the brutality and animalistic 
horror of a Marine Corp brig. It was brilliantly theatrical, but its 
impact was greatly dissipated by its length — one got the message 
by the end of the first 15 minutes.
The grande finale was Bruce Connor’s Cosmic Ray, a mildly por­
nographic film that contrasted such a offbeat image as a stripteaser 
with patriotic shots of soldiers marching. The demoniac sound of 
rock and roll was again used; the effect created was amusing and 
quite witty. Of all the works shown, I think that probably only the 
Vanderbeek and the Connor were consistently imaginative and in­
teresting.
After coming dazed and exhausted out of the church-like audi­
torium of the Ellis School last Friday night, I thought to myself how 
great it would be to see a movie that had such bourgeois things as 
a logical plot and logical dialogue—at that point even a Doris Day 
movie would have been great.
Office Workers 
Needed For 
Embassy Jobs
United States Department of 
State recruiters will conduct in­
terviews at the Pennsylvania 
State Employment Service, 327 
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, from 
October 10 through October 14. 
They will be seeking young men 
and women to staff positions in 
Washington, D. C., and in Amer­
ican Embassies and Consulates in 
300 cities around the world.
Positions overseas are open to 
secretaries with shorthand skills, 
communications clerks with tele­
type or cryptographic experience, 
and male clerks with typing skill. 
Recent work experience is re­
quired for all positions. To quali­
fy, one must be an American 
citizen at least five years, 21 or 
older, and able to pass required 
tests. Consideration will be giv­
en to married men with commun­
ications experience who have no 
dependents other than a wife, but 
applications for other positions 
will only be accepted from sin­
gle persons without dependents. 
Young people who are not eligi­
ble for overseas because they 
lack work experience or are not 
yet 21 will be considered for posi­
tions in Washington, D. C., and 
may apply for overseas assign­
ment when they qualify.
State Department recruiters 
commented, “We are looking for 
young people with good office 
skills who want to put their tal­
ents to work in our world-wide 
operation. Our standards are high, 
but those fortunate enough to be 
selected will find wider horizons 
opening for them.”
Hours for the interviews are 9 
am to 9 pm, Monday and Thurs­
day, and from 9 am to 4 pm, 
Tuesday and Friday. The office 
will be closed Wednesday, Octo­
ber 12. The telephone number is 
471-5186.
SAE Officers
Tech’s chapter of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon Fraternity recently an­
nounced its officers for the fall 
semester of the 1966-1967 aca­
demic year.
Officers are: Eminent Archon, 
James Moran; Eminent Deputy 
Archon, Lawrence Dykes; Rush 
Chairman, George Brown; Treas­
urer, John Detwiler; House Man­
ager, Terence Chenoweth; Stew­
ard, Robert Murray; Pledge Train­
er, George Vajda; Social Chair­
man, William Hess; Recorder, 
William Habel; and Herald, James 
McClenathean.
Between Classes or at Study Break
SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
SERVICE CAREERS
Mr. Thomas R. Shaver, Foreign Service Officer, 
will be on campus Wednesday, October 12, 1966 
to discuss Foreign Service Career Opportunities.
Location: ROOM 45, SKIBO Time: 1:00 to 5:00 p.m.
A film, "In Search of Peace/' will be shown at 1:30 and 3:30 p.m.
Tech Soloists 
Sing Mozart
Mazzelle Sykes, Barbara Irwin, 
William DiBenedetto, and Alan 
Wagner, all from Carnegie Tech, 
will be soloists with the Choir of 
the Fox Chapel Episcopal Church.
The free October 9 concert at 
the Church on Squaw Run Road 
East will feature the seldom-heard 
Mozart “Litany in B-flat” as well 
as several major anthems of the 
choral literature. The concert be­
gins at 8 p.m.
Soprano Mazelle Sykes, a grad­
uate student in voice at Carne­
gie Tech, received her under­
graduate degree here last spring. 
Barbara Irwin is a graduate of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege and has been lead alto solo­
ist with the Fox Chapel Choir 
since 1963. William DiBenedetto, 
tenor, received bachelor’s degrees 
in Music and Music Education 
from Carnegie Tech in 1965, and 
is currently music director of 
the Millvale area schools. Bari­
tone • Alan Wagner, a graduate 
student in music at Carnegie 
Tech, has sung with the Civic 
Light Opera for two seasons and 
will make three appearances with 
the Pittsburgh Opera this year.
Services Held 
For Miller
Funeral services were held last 
Wednesday for Dr. Clara E. Mil­
ler associate professor of chem­
istry at Carnegie Tech. Dr. Miller 
died last Monday, September 26 
after a long illness. She was 62 
years old, and had been a mem­
ber of the faculty since 1925.
She was scheduled to teach 
again this year, but her illness 
forced her to stay with her family 
in Baltimore.
She received her B.A. from 
Goucher College in 1923 and later 
earned a Masters degree and a 
doctorate at Johns Hopkins Uni­
versity.
She was a member of Phi Beta 
Kappa and Sigma Xi. She was 
also a past president of the Car­
negie Tech chapter of the Amer­
ican Association of University 
Professors, and held several of­
fices in the American Chemical 
Society.
The Tartan staff extends its 
sympathies to Dr. Miller’s sur­
viving relatives, who include her 
mother, Airs. C. Louis Miller, and 
her sister, Anna C. Miller, both 
of Baltimore.
ATTENTION MEN UNDER 25
Sentry Insurance offers 
10% discount to safe drivers
By completing a simple twenty-minute questionnaire, 
you may save up to $50 . . . maybe more ... on Sentry 
auto insurance. And this is in addition to Sentry’s 15% 
discount for Driver Training ! Register now for the Sentry 
Preferred Youthful Driver Exam. Call or drop a card to 
me today.
DAN DONAHUE
5702 Hilltop Av«nu*
795-1»3
SENTRY. XI INSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals • Sentry Life
CIVIC ARENA • FRI.. OCT. 14 • 8:30 I
Tickets $4.00, $6, $7.50. Now on sale at all National Record § 
Marts; Gate No. 1, Civic Arena; Gimbels; Horne's; The-Point, \
401 Hasting St., Point Breeze. Mail Orders, write: NRM, Box ^ 
431, Pittsburgh« Pa. 15230. &
Please enclose stamped envelope. \
ULTOY UTMA2V fKESEXTAT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday. October 5. 1966
Editorial
Boring Repetition
Once again, the first of Tech’s two all-school ‘big’ week­
ends is approaching, with nothing to offer but a half day’s 
break from Friday classes. The Homecoming Committee, 
steeped in the tradition of its predecessors, has once again 
proved that a maximum amount of talking and a min’mum 
of imaginative thinking will serve to extract approval and 
money from Student Government. In the meantime, the 
student body is trapped. Last year, for example, many stu­
dents, unable to find anything better to do after attending 
the colorful, inspiring pagentry of President Stever’s In­
auguration, decided at the last minute to purchase tickets.
Only three elements differentiate this weekend from 
others. The queen contest, and the fraternity and dormi­
tory displays always contribute as highlights of the week­
end. The football team, perhaps the best since 1959, is cap­
able of upsetting Grove City, their Homecoming rivals. But 
it is impossible to distinguish the rest of the weekend from 
any other Homecoming weekend, or any other weekend 
throughout the year. Thus, the student body, in seeking 
worthwhile activities and entertainment, is faced with the 
same old unpleasant situation.
Strictly from an entertainment standpoint, the week­
end fails to present itself as unique, or even worthwhile. 
Last year, Homecoming was highlighted by the Inaugural 
events; this year it appears likely that the football game 
will prove most exciting.
In attempting to fulfill the theme ‘Give my Regards to 
Broadway,’ the committee plans to utilize campus talent, 
and that of a stand-up vaudeville comedian in a presentation 
called ‘Vaudeville Varieties.’ A similar program was tried as 
part of Spring Carnival but met with little success.
Simon and Garfunkle are in keeping with the past prac­
tice of having a folk sing group as Friday night entertain­
ment. While folk-rock music has increased in popularity, 
the program represents a dull, unexciting night of enter­
tainment for many students, especially when contrasted to 
Harry Belafonte, or the Pittsburgh Symphony, both appear­
ing the same Friday night.
Saturday night, the weekend, adhering closely to last 
year’s pattern, degenerates into another loud, noisy dance, 
again featuring rock music. While music of this type has 
nearly campus-wide popularity, the committee has falsely 
assumed that this can be applied to formal dances as well. 
There are few weekends during the year when any other 
type of dance music is available on campus. The final 
irony is labeling such an affair ‘formal/ as girls try to 
‘jerk’ or ‘frug’ while wearing formal gowns.
In a post mortem of last year’s Homecoming, the Tartan 
advocated, as did others, that serious consideration be given 
new and different forms of entertainment and activities. 
However the Homecoming Committee, claiming to have a 
‘representative’ opnion poll has again chosen to ignore the 
great potential Homecoming has, and has instead settled for 
tradition-worn mediocrity.
Upon further analysis, the entertainment and activities 
of Homecoming appear to be a hastily concocted series of 
unrelated events, separate^ by large segments of unused 
time. Several opportunities for unique, or special features 
have been ignored, while others may be victims of poor tim­
ing. One of these is the pep rally scheduled after the con­
cert Friday night. Since the concert is to be held in Car­
negie Music Hall, semi-formal dress is required. Many stu­
dents, on leaving the concert will anxiously depart for pri­
vate or fraternity parties, leaving the pep rally poorly at­
tended, as usual.
Saturday night, after three solid hours of rock and roll, 
the ‘formal’ dance will end with the presentation of awards, 
leaving couples faced with the prospect of three more hours 
of hot, heavily populated parties, featuring more rock ’n’ 
roll. *
The worst part of this is the fate of the student, who 
has had virtually no say in what a Homecoming program 
should contain. Yet he is left with only two alternatives. 
The first possibility, that of refusing to buy a ticket, and
then attending only the football game and the parties 
after the Saturday night dance is not very appealing. On 
the other hand, many students have expressed the opin­
ion that although it is difficult to get excited about the 
potential of this weekend, with the prospect of nothing 
to do, they have planned to buy tickets. Hence the stu­
dent body is again at the mercy of a minority which has 
transformed both Homecoming and Spring Carnival from 
special occasions into repetitious, boring affairs.
TARTAN DEADLINES
COPY . . . Thursdoy I p.m. preferred;
Deadline Sunday 5 p.m.
ADVERTISING . . . Saturday 6 p.m.
CLASSIFIED ADS . . . Sundoy 6 p.m.
Readers Write
Food Problems
Granted, it takes quite a bit of 
conviction to write to the editor 
of a newspaper whether you hope 
it gets published or not. When I 
read the latter part of Senior 
Chemical Engineering student 
Karl Leek’s letter in last week’s 
Tartan in which he says “The new 
administration has done quite 
well so far in providing IM field 
lights, a revamped food system,” 
I then knew that I had to express 
my view.
Evidently Mr. Leek feels quite 
pleased with the change in the 
food system this year over that 
provided by Stouffer’s last year. 
True, there are some significant 
improvements like simply a lar­
ger portion on practically every 
selection, and the lines seem to 
be moving a bit faster.
If I were the only individual 
displeased with the food arrange­
ment (speaking of the Skibo Con­
tract Plan), then it might appear 
that my taste buds are in due 
need of medical attention, as well 
as my common sense of inefficien­
cy.
Under the supposed careful di­
rection of the “upper” manage­
ment, the food service has look­
ed up slightly. The chefs have oc- 
casionlly hit a culinary high peak 
in such dishes as Shrimp Creole 
over rice, Bacon and Cheese 
Sauce over Toast, both of which 
were highly pleasing to the pa­
late. At the same time however, 
the foot staff has acutely over­
looked many of the basic needs 
of hungry students. These over­
sights occur in the areas of vari­
ation, selection, and quality. Often 
for dinner a student on contract 
is offered only one choice for the 
entree and is forced to either 
take it or leave it. Dishes like 
Jello, Waldorf Salad, Breaded 
Veal, and cold Weiners and Ham­
burgers have a strange way of 
continuously cropping up sooner 
than is desired by most students. 
Also, when the food is served it 
may or may not be even luke 
warm or perhaps loaded with un­
appetizing bits of gristle and 
other minertia.
It is disturbing that when a 
Tech student (or any student for 
matter) is paying an increase of 
approximately 25 dollars for food 
service contract this year, the 
food seems poorer and of inferior 
quality. It sort of makes him 
wonder exactly where his food 
dollar is going.
Occasionally one gets the idea 
that the cooks behind the scenes 
who are responsible for the pre­
paration are trying to fool the 
students into eating a dish that 
was horrendous to begin with. 
Many find it rather annoying to 
find the un-ripe cantaloupe that 
no one ate at breakfast turn up 
as dessert on the following nighty 
only under the guise of Fruit 
Compote mixed with a few other 
frozen fruits. Leftover Pork Chops 
(the ones with an abundance of 
fat) are mysteriously turned into 
a luncheon dish known as Beef 
Marcaroni Cassarole with Noo­
dles. Often because of lack of 
observation, a student must wait 
quite a while for an entree to 
be replenished and slowly gazes 
at his cooling food.
As Mr. Leek also states, the 
new administration has done hon­
orably and remarkably well with 
items like the Mellon Institute 
merger and other important phas- 
ses in making Carnegie one of 
the major educational forces in 
the United States. It would be 
even more honorable and more 
remarkable if we could eat well 
while pursuing this quest.
Cleric to Discuss 
Racial Problems
Current civil rights activity in 
the north and reactions such as 
the so-called “white backlash” 
will be discussed by the Rev. 
Duncan Howlett on October 10 at 
7:30 in the Skibo Highlander, 
Room.
The Rev. Howlett, minister of 
All Souls’ Unitarian Church in 
Washington, D.C., will be present­
ed by the Office of Religious Af­
fairs at Carnegie Tech through 
the courtesy of the Unitarian de­
nomination. All students and fac­
ulty are welcome, and coffee will 
be -served.
Mr. Howlett is the author of a 
biography of the Rev. James 
Reeb, a former assistant minister 
of the Washington church, who 
was killed in Selma last year. As 
advisor to the Washington office 
of the American Unitarian-Uni- 
versalist Association and as min­
ister of a church attended by 
many prominent members of the 
federal government, Mr. Howlett 
is intimately acquainted with the 
political realities of obtaining 
support for civil rights and other 
social legislation, including the 
recent defeat of open housing 
legislation in Congress due to the 
defection of northern congress­
man.
Sunday Meetings 
To Begin Again
Last year the Alumni Federa­
tion sponsored a series of infor­
mal Sunday evening meetings for 
students, faculty, and area alum­
ni. The meetings were held sim­
ply to provide a pleasant evening 
of relaxing conversation and to 
give the students an opportunity 
to become acquainted with some 
of the alumni active in this area.
If you have any questions, or 
are interested in helping organize 
the meetings, please contact Tina 
Wick, 683-8631, Gretchen Erd- 
man, 682-8892, or Ed Ketterer, 
681-8064.
Sheridan Play 
Opens Season
Carnegie Tech’s drama depart­
ment will present this year’s first 
mainstage production, The Riv­
als, by Richard Brinsley Sheri­
dan, from October 20 29, with 
the exception of Sunday, Octo­
ber 23.
Directing the production will 
be Word Baker, who before com­
ing to Tech, directed The Fantar 
sticks.
Tickets for the production 
will be available to CXT. stu­
dents at 4 pm Tuesday, Octo­
ber 11, in Room 108 of the Fine 
Arts Building. The tickets are 
free, but since the supply is 
limited, they will be distri­
buted only on a first come — 
first serve basis.
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor.........................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor......................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.......................................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor.......................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor.........................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager.......................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor .............................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.......................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager: Harvey A. Shapiro.
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Moses, Sue Stout, Barbara 
Wander, Marilyn Werner.
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Sue Lohmeyer, Ken Lutz, Chipper Monk, Tom Moore, Richard Morri­
son, Jane Riva, Ruth Rothstein, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, 
Carol Schuman, Louise Schwerin, Jean Siegal, Peggy Smolen, Rich 
Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissen- 
son, David Landsberger.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Flnnin, George Smith.
Layout Staff: Ellen Blissman, David Caney, Michael Cramer, David Landsberger. 
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pat Statem, Chris 
Hausler, Patti Louis, Lanie London.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson) Tina vom Saal.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechel, Mary Olds, William Opfermann.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc
STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND CIRCULATION
(Act of October 23, 1962; Section 4369, Title 39, United States Code)
1. Date of filing: September 26, 1966.
2. Title of publication: The Carnegie Tech Tartan.
3. Frequency of issue: Weekly except during vacations and exam periods.
4. Location of known office of publication: Skibo, Room 50, Box G, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
5. Location of the headquarters or general business offices of the publishers (notprinters) : Same as above. ,
6. Names and address of publisher, editor, and managing editor—Publisher: Stu­
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Editor: Richard G. Sextro, 4620 Filmore 
Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. Managing editor: Erie P. Feldmann, 214 Donner Hall, 
Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
7. Owner: Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
8. Known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 
1 percent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages or other securities: None.
A. Total No. Copies Printed (net press run): Average No. Copies each issue dur­
ing preceding 12 months, 4500. Single issue nearest to filing date, 4500.
B. Paid Circulation—1. Sales through dealers and carriers, street vendors and 
counter sales: Average No. Copies each issue during preceding 12 months, none. 
Single issue nearest to filing date, none. 2. Mail Subscriptions: Average No. Copies 
each issue during preceding 12 months, 290. Single issue nearest to filing date, 298.
C. Total Paid Circulation: Average No. Copies each issue during preceding 12 
months, 290. Single issue nearest to filing date, 298.
D. Free Distribution (including samples) by mail, carrier or other means: Average 
No. Copies each issue during preceding 12 months, 4150. Single issue nearest to filing 
date, 4142.
E. Total Distribution (sum of C and D): Average No. Copies each issue during 
preceding 12 months, 4450. Single issue nearest to filing date: 4450.
F. Office use, left-over, unaccounted, spoiled after printing: Average No. Copies 
each issue during preceding 12 months, 50. Single issue nearest to filing date, 50.
G. Total (Sum of E and F—should equal net press run shown in A) : Average No. 
Copies each issue during preceding 12 months, 4500. Single issue nearest to filing 
date, 4500.
I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete (Signa­
ture of editor, publisher, business manager, or owner): RICHARD G. SEXTRO,

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 5, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
TPÒÌÌKA
By John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
“Too Late, But Never Mind”...
We have thus far made no comment on our new administration 
building. It seemed that while it was still under construction the 
administration might somehow come to its senses, drive the contrac­
tor out, and begin immediate demolition. But it didn’t happen. War­
ner Hall has been officially dedicated, it is occupied and, as well as 
a handicapped creature can, it is functioning. Warner Hall has be­
come an irrevocable fact.
To criticize aesthetics is (especially in this case) to say much 
about nothing. Much might be said, though, about commuters waiting 
¿or a trolley or a bus on Forbes in a five-below-zero wind or a thun­
derstorm. Only three people at a time can find shelter from the ele­
ments under those benches. Perhaps some compromise might have 
been made with the staff of the cashier’s office who don’t know 
whether it’s raining or snowing, day or night, unless they step out­
side to investigate.
The building would probably be a total loss were it not for the 
arrows. They are everywhere—like the arrows leading to a treasure 
that we drew on sidewalks when we were kids. Now they lead to 
the Assistant Treasurer’s Office.
The real tragedy is not that Warner Hall is a bad building, but 
rather that it will be a bad building for the next 10, 25, 50 years, 
as long as it stands. The influence of architecture and architectural 
mistakes upon their occupants cannot, we feel, be overestimated. 
Carnegie Tech would probably not be the school it is today if its 
original campus were executed in such incredibly uninspired struc­
tures. Warner Hall will hurt Carnegie Tech. It hurts already.
We met a gentleman who lives near Tech in front of the build­
ing not long ago and while his dog vented its criticism on one of the 
pillars we asked what he thought of it. He thought it very ugly in­
deed, then asked if Tech had a department of architecture. We as­
sured him that it did but that the faculty had no part in the design. 
But his implied associations were clear and, we think, reasonable. 
The department of architecture should have been allowed some hand, 
at least in consultation, on the new construction, especially after 
the dismal failure of Skibo.
But there are rumors of hope afoot. A new administration, new 
men in high places, and most hopeful of all, a hunch that the gen­
tlemen who make the decisions know that Warner Hall is a loser. 
We trust they’ll choose our next architect more wisely.
Anthone Review
The Corn Is Green
by Tony Lawrence
I was beginning to doubt that there were any films in which 
Bette Davis did not play herself. However, The Com is Green comes 
off notably with Bette Davis doing a fine job of husking.
Based on a play by Emelyn Williams, The Com Is Green is 
more or less a pseudo-social commentary concerning the lack of 
education among Welsh miners. Yet, at the same time, the film has 
a touching story about a young Welsh mine worker who, through 
writing a brief essay about the mines, is discovered to have a gift 
¿or writing. Morgan, skillfully played by John Dali (please don’t 
“who’s that?” all at once) at first welcomes the idea of the oppor­
tunity to better his standing in life. But one night he wanders into 
a pub to drink with a few of his old miner cronies. When they snub 
him with insults implying that he is better than they he becomes 
furious and storms out determined never again to go back to his 
education.
Only through the determination of Miss Moffat (Bette Davis) 
does he finally assent and once again strive for higher learning, 
eventually winning himself a scholarship to Oxford. There is a poig­
nant scene between Miss Davis and Mr. Dali when she says good­
bye to him as he readies himself for Oxford and for a new life. She 
tells him that she never cared so deeply or so affectionately for 
anyone.
Bette Davis is excellent as the staunch feminist Miss Moffatt 
who calmly states, at her first meeting with two of her assistants 
(marvelously played by Rhys Williams and Mildred Dunnock), “I 
never have spoken with a man for more than five minutes in my 
life without getting completely bored.” One only occasionally gets 
an unforgettable Davis stare or expression. She evidently tackled 
the part determined to become Miss Moffatt rather than just vary 
one of her famous parts in films like All About Eve (being shown 
by the Fine Arts Society on Oct. 20), The Star, and in many ways 
even The Little Foxes. One is assured, with films like The Com Is 
Green that Miss Davis is (inspite of herself) a very fine actress.
Joan Loring as the whiny, malicious daughter of Miss Moffatt’s 
housekeeper is marvelous. She has some fine moments when she 
gives a look to someone that is genuine and meaningful; it is that 
of a “then” fine young actress, and now a veteran.
The Friday night Y-Cine film series of which Com is Green 
13 the third presentation (Room at the Top, Cyrano De Bergerac) is 
fine. The films are provocative and are of more than usual interest 
to avid film goers. Some of the coming attractions include Wild 
strawberries, The Big Sleep (one of the first Bogart-Bacall triumphs), 
Kail Safe, Spellbound, and The Balcony. This week The Hunchback 
Notre Dame with Charles Laughton will be presented. General 
Admission is 50 cents and 25 cents for Y members.
Readers Write
(Continued from Page 4)
Junior Foods 
Offers Lunches
Editor, the TARTAN:
We wish to make known the 
presence of a minority group on 
campus. We’re small in numbers 
and often overlooked. However, 
WE have decided to remedy this 
situation by introducing ourselves 
to C.I.T. In the past, we’ve been 
known as the “boilers of water,” 
seekers of MRS degree, and ma­
joring in elementary pots and 
pans. Now, we wish to destroy 
this antiquated image by asking 
you to bring your appetite to the 
lunchroom operated by the Jun­
ior Foods majors. This operation 
(remember it is a laboratory) is 
open every Thursday for two 
lunch periods 11:30 and 12:30. 
For a minimal cost in this in­
flationary world, you can get a 
meal like mother never cooked.
Remember, now, the lunch­
room’s grand opening is Thurs­
day, Oct. 6. Reserve your seats 
now with Mrs. Smede in MMCC, 
room 208, ext. 442 or 452. First 
come, first served! (But remem­
ber there’s more than one Thurs­
day in a year.)
In closing, why don’t YOU 
come up and see us some time.
For better food, 
The Management of ’66-’67
Skibo Problems 
Open for Comment
Editor, the TARTAN:
Student Union . . . Skibo . . . 
Activities Center . . Snack Bar. 
These words are used quite a 
bit on the Carnegie Tech campus 
but there is now a good deal of 
discussion as to their applicabil­
ity.
Presently, the snack bar is be­
ing renovated to make way for 
the TARTAN GRILL. This pro­
ject is the outcome of the com­
bined effort of the Union Com­
mittee of Student Government 
and the Division of Student Af­
fairs. According to James P. Kerr, 
Supervisor of Construction, Engi­
neering Planning and Construc­
tion, the total cost is approxi­
mately $95,000. Hopefully this 
area will provide a more suit­
able place for student relaxation 
and socializing.
In addition to the Food Serv­
ice in Skibo, there are various 
other services provided but which 
are, for the most part, unheard 
of by the student body. There 
are chess boards, decks of cards 
and ping pong tables available 
at Room 103. Also, a television 
is set up in the main lobby. There 
are music listening room facil­
ities and group meeting rooms 
available to students. Commuter 
rooms for men and women are 
equipped with beds and showers. 
The regular Student Government 
T.G.I.F.’s are staged in Skibo. The 
Student Union is also used by 
various faculty, alumni and com­
munity groups.
Perhaps the biggest enigma 
concerning Skibo is what do the 
students really want in a Student 
Union. Numerous criticisms have 
been leveled against the present 
layout but there have been few 
workable suggestions. They in­
clude a box store in Skibo which 
would emphasize effectiveness, 
and efficiency as well as price 
improvements, and an additional 
wing which would stress recrea­
tional facilities. Dean George K. 
Brown, Division of Student Af-
C on temporary (Commentary.
White Backlash
by Linda Pecaites
With the phrase “black power” reverberating through the air 
and being flashed across the nation in banner headlines, its antithesis, 
“white power,” strikes an odd chord in the American mind. In 
Africa, it is the battle cry that stirs much passion of a tenacious 
minority structure, the white governments in southern Africa.
Last November most of the world predicted that-Prime Minister 
Ian Smith could not possibly get away with his declaration of in­
dependence in Rhodesia, that surely even if Britain were afraid to 
use force on the recalitrant, the black minority in the country would 
revolt and touch off another bloody African war.
YET FOR ALL of Britain’s coaxing and threatening, Rhodesia 
is still riding along and so far has been little affected by the eco­
nomic sanctions imposed by the British Commonwealth. Only a few 
industries have been forced to close their doors, but frequently be­
cause of outside influences.
The asbestos mines which have closed, shut down not only be­
cause of low return for the risk of breaking the embargo, but also 
because of the inferior grade that they were producing. The oil in­
dustry has been forced to stop production because the British have 
blockaded the seaport end of the pipeline in Mozambique. Also, the 
assembly plants of Ford and British Motor companies will be closed 
within the next few months because the parent plants in England 
have patriotically stopped shipping parts, but this is also influenced 
by the loss of the Zambia market area.
THE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS are not influenced enough to 
starve the country into submission. Although unemployment is prob­
ably greater than the government is willing to admit and invest­
ments and consumer sales have dropped somewhat, wide-spread in­
flation has failed to arrive yet and there won’t be any belt-tightening 
for quite a while. , ,
Smith is blithely ignoring the Commonwealth’s latest ultimatum 
that if Rhodesia does not bow by Christmas, Britain will withdraw 
all compromise offers, never grant independence without complete 
black control and go to the U.N. for intervention support, which will 
cause the Western powers to stop hedging the question.
SOUTH AFRICA has also managed to retain its “apartheid” 
image, especially under the new prime Minister, Balthazar Vorster, 
successor to the assassinated Verwoerd. Vorster has every intention 
oi following Verwoerd’s footsteps' in establishing separate all-black 
Bantustan states in order to further segregate the black population.
South Africa also holds a mandate over South-West Africa which 
the African block in the U.N. is trying to wrest from her. Vorster 
has few worries of any international intervention because the U.N. 
not only has no way to enforce its resolutions if it did pass on it, 
but also the western and eastern bloc are determined to duck the 
question since a decision in favor of the Africans would be meaning­
less and a decision against the black power bloc would cause a 
wholesale withdrawal by the group from the organization.
The only course left to the black Africans may be to try to 
expel the white segregationists from southern Africa themselves, 
which will only leave the door open to both the communist and west­
ern powers to walk into Africa.
Free Flu Shots Teacher Exams
Any member of the Carnegie 
Tech community is eligible to 
receive free flu shots adminis­
tered in the health office of the 
gymnasium, Monday through 
Friday, 12:30 to 2:30 pm.
The procedure consists of 
two shots, taken one month 
apart. Those who have already 
received one may still get the 
other one free.
fairs, has issued a challenge to 
the students to decide what 
is needed and what services are 
required. He stressed the point 
that a lack of student opinion 
makes any change difficult.
With the merger of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and Mel­
lon Institute to form Carnegie 
University, an entirely new di­
mension in the concept of stu­
dent facilities will be needed. 
This new vista of opportunities 
is now being formulated by the 
Union Committee of Student Gov­
ernment. Any criticism, sugges­
tions or comments are encour­
aged — Write Union Committee, 
Skibo 103.
Sharon Rambo 
Senior, Humanities
To Be Given
College seniors preparing to 
teach school may take the Na­
tional Teacher Examinations on 
January 7, March 18, July 1, or 
October 7, 1967. The tests are 
prepared and administered by 
the non-profit Educational Test­
ing Service (ETS).
On each full day of testing, 
prospective teachers may take 
the Common Examinations, which 
measure the professional prepara­
tion and general cultural back­
ground of teachers, and one of
13 Teaching Area Examinations 
which measure mastery of the 
subject they expect to teach.
Prospective teachers should 
contact the school systems in 
which they seek employment for 
specific advice on which exam­
inations to take and on which 
tests they should be taking.
A Bulletin of Information con­
taining a list of test centers, and 
information about the examina­
tions, as well as a Registration 
Form, may be obtained from col­
lege placement officers, school 
personnel departments, or direct- 
ly from National Teacher Exam­
inations, Box 911, Educational 
Testing Service, Princeton, New 
Jersey 08540.

---------------------------------------------------

Kl RVHRI
EASTWOOD THEATRE 
371-5000
Free Parking — 8995 Frankstown Road
15 MINUTES FROM PITTSBURGH . . . Take Parkway East to 
Exit 12: GREEN SB URG PIKE: Turn Right, Keep Right at "Y" 
Intersection; Straight thru 3 Lights on Graham Blvd. at 4th 
Ugbt, Turn Left on Frankstown Rd. Proceed 1 Block to 
Theatre and Park in any of 3 available Lots. (We are 1 
Block below East Hills Shopping Center.)
NOW THRU SATURDAY AT 7:30 AND 9:40
THE PAWN BROKER
SUNDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, OCT. 9-10-11
iSDNEYPOmER «Life At 
AND TheloP
STUDENTS! 25c OFF Regular Admission with 
Tech I.D. Card when presented at 
Box Office.
Page 6 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, October 5, 1966
This Week In Pittsburgh
Music ....
Royal Scot Fusiliers. Presented by the Music Guild. October 5, 8:30 
pm, Civic Arena.
Pittsburgh Sypmhony. Grant Johanneson, piano soloist; William 
Steinberg, conductor. Friday, October 7, at 8:40 pm. Sunday, 
October 9, at 3:10 pm. Syria Mosque.
Ralph Votapek. Program of Chopin, Beethoven, Mozart, Ravel, and 
Schoenberg. Saturday, October 8, at 8:30 pm, Carnegie Music Hall.
Duquesne University Faculty Concert. Sonata recital of contempor­
ary French flute music. Recital Hall, School of Music. October 9 
at 8:30 pm. Admission Free.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society. Balsam - Kroll - Heifetz Trio. 
Monday, October 10, at 8:30 pm. Carnegie Music Hall.
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Carnegie Concert Series. Vronsky 
and Babin; Carnegie Fine Arts Quartet. Tuesday, October 11, at 
8:30 pm. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Admission Free.
Lectures ....
Senator Wayne Morse will speak on Wednesday, October 5, in Pitt 
Student Union Ballroom at 12 noon. Admission Free.
“Aspects of Scientific Theorizing” by Carl G. Hempel, Stuart Pro­
fessor of Philosophy at Princeton, sponsored by University of 
Pittsburgh Center for the Philosophy of Science. Tuesday, Octo­
ber 11, at 8:15 pm, Clapp Hall on Fifth Ave. near Cathedral of 
Learning. Admission Free.
Drama ....
A Man’s a Man, John Hancock. Slapstick and 1920’s song rolled into 
a black comedy of terrors. 8:30 pm Tuesday through Friday. Sat­
urday at 7 and 10 pm. Sunday at 7:30 pm. Information at 621- 
4445, Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave.at Hamlet St. Admission 
$3.30.
The Zoo Story and The Man with a Flower in his Mouth. Friday 
evening October 7. University of Pittsburgh Theater, Tenth 
Floor, Studio Theatre. Information and tickets, room 1117, Cathe­
dral of Learning or 621-3800, ext. 371.
Exhibits ....
Rod and Custom Show. Friday, October 7, thru Sunday, October 9, 
at the Civic Arena; Friday, 5 to 11 pm; Saturday, 10 am to 11 
pm. Admission $2.00.
Photographs by Harold Corsini, Pittsburgh Artists Series, on the 
third floor at Gallery K, Carnegie Museum. Now through Octo­
ber 30.
Buhl Planetarium. Sea and the Stars. At 2:15 and 3:15 pm week­
days, and on Sundays at 2:15, 4:15 and 8:15 pm. For informa­
tion call 321-4300.
Informal Entertainment ....
The Crumbling Wall: A Coffee House featuring “Controversially 
Cathalytic Communicators,” at ten o’clock, weekly on Friday 
night. 4515 Forbes Avenue.
The House of the Rising Sun, the Carnegie Tech Coffee House, opens 
at 8:30 pm Friday, featuring Bemie Dobroski and the Wolver­
ines with rag-time entertainment until 10 pm. Coffee House 
open until midnight.
Hold that crease?
You bet it will.
If the fabric is one of the great, 
new permanent-press blends 
of 2-ply polyester and cotton 
masterminded by Galey & Lord.
in collegiate slacks.
0.*. Utitwrattgj iHjap
3939 Forbes Av*., Pittsburgh 13 683-6757
Open Thurs. 10:00 to 9 p.m. Other Days 10 to 6
in the true crew: Adler Adlastic. Now in 16 new heathers. Heathers? 
Scotch for color. But so easy on hue they go with everything. Going on in 
lambswool for luxury. Nylon for wear. Spandex to stretch all ways. $1.50 
says you're socking right up to your attitude in Adlastic Heathers plus 
15 other socko colors. And you used to think blondes were fun.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 5, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
from our University Shop 
DISTINCTIVE FALL SPORTWEAR 
styled by us, in sizes 36 to 44
Tweed Sport Jackets in new, unusual colorings. 
Plaids, diagonals, herringbones and stripes 
in greys, browns, olives or blues, from $50
Navy or green wool blazers, $55
Odd Trousers (sizes 29 to 36) in worsted 
"flannel or Dacron polyester 
and worsted, $22-50 j 
in wide-wale cotton corduroy, $ 14.50 j 
in Fortrel polyester and cotton chino, $10.50
New western ranch outer jackets in suede or 
sheepskin... plus classic 
tweeds, corduroys, etcfrom $37.50
Mens irBoys furnishings, flats ¿rÿhors
600 SMITHFIELD STREET & MELLON SQUARE 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 1S222
NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO • SAN FRANCISCO * LOS ANGELES
LEWIS;
Sales-Repnirs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS ,
HIGH FIDELITY
o TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211 
115 OAKLAND AVE
Try the VERY LARGE BIG “ONE”!
VILLAGE BURGER
% Lb. PURE BEEF on BIG ITALIAN ROLL
Choice of Melted Cheeses 
and Dressing
117 OAKLAND AVE. 
683-5222
CGTU Affords 
Added Training
The Counter—Guerilla Training 
Unit is an extra curricular ac­
tivity open to all Carnegie Tech 
ROTC cadets. Students can join 
any time during their four years 
provided they first join ROTC. 
The basic purpose of CGTU is 
to supplement the classroom in­
struction with programs of prac­
tical field application of military 
skills.
These programs, scheduled on 
alternate Saturday mornings, are 
held in Schenley Park under au­
thorization of the Park Depart­
ment. Equipment and Training Fa­
cilities are provided by Tech’s 
Military Department. The pro­
grams give the cadets skills in 
areas such at patrolling, bayonet 
practice, mountain operations, 
demolition, field communication, 
land navigation, and live arms 
training. The last session of each 
semester is a Field Training Ex­
ercise, occupying an entire week­
end, which gives the cadet a 
chance to put into practice all 
he has learned throughout the 
semester.
CGTU members, because of 
their added training are usually 
among the top ROTC students. 
They are recognizable by the ber­
ets which they wear in place of 
the standard ROTC cap. The 
members make up about one- 
third of the total ROTC mem­
bership.
e6—NN USE OF “PADMj 
e6b— mrN 4NNWNdns
Minimum Restrictions ]e j
i WRITE 25 WORDS OR LESS ]
(How You Would Use It) j
•
; . .To Owner . .
SHADYSIDE THEATER
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217 j
Residence 
of Distinction :
e
ONE ROOM, Kitchenette! 
equipped, one bath, beauti- ; 
fully furnished—$155. up. 
e
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very; 
attractively furnished, $275. < 
up.
•
UNFURNISHED 1 & 3 ROOM 
APARTMENT, also when; 
available.
•
FAIRFAX HOTEL ;
4614 5th AVE. Rhone: 621-4030
PROTESTANT WORSHIP 
Sunday 11 A.M.
SKI BO CHAPEL
(Room 39)
For All Students and Faculty
College Teaching 
Cooperative College Registry
A free service of 13 denominations to some 200 church- 
related liberal arts colleges throughout the United States. 
Administrative and faculty positions in all areas of curricu­
lum. Ph.D.'s preferred. Master's required. Salaries—$6,500 
to $20,000 plus fringe benefits. Make appointment for 
interviews through the Bureau of Placements, Suite 10, 
Skibo Building, Friday, October 14.
For '67 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
\ ROUTE 8, ETNA.
Freshmen Choose Seven 
For Homecoming Queen
S’n’S Presents Skit
As part of the Homecoming fes­
tivities members of the Scotch 
and Soda Club will perform a 
musical revue during the dance 
Saturady evening October 15. The 
show will be performed several 
times in the Wherrett Room ad­
jacent to the Ballroom. Announce­
ments of the performances will 
be made from the bandstand.
(Continued from Page 1) 
details about people and objects. 
Randee is an avid skier who loves 
to meet people. She believes that 
all new situations should be faced 
with a positive attitude.
Holly Roth, a drama student 
from Squirrel Hill, loves ostrich 
feathers, sequins and cats. Her 
ambition is to be a good actress 
which means satisfying herself 
and making the theater a mean­
ingful experience for others. Her 
enthusiasm extends to all aspects 
of the theater, including sewing 
costumes and painting sets. She 
has appeared in several original 
revues by Don Brockett. One of 
her favorite experiences was 
serving as a Holly Dolly, or San­
ta’s helper, during Christmas at 
Home’s. Keeping busy is essen­
tial to Holly, who likes to paint 
and recently finished a tapestry 
from scraps of felt.
Mae Wong, a graphic arts 
design major, was born in China 
and now resides in Washington,
D.C. Before coming to the United 
States eight years ago, Mae lived 
in Taiwan. She is interested in 
the field of advertising design. 
Mae spent the summer doing vol­
unteer work with Operation Step 
Up, a program for underprivileg­
ed children. One of her hobbies is 
collecting bottles. Mae’s special 
ambitions are to sky dive and to 
own an Afghan dog.
The seven Homecoming Queen 
candidates will tour fraternity 
houses of men’s dorms according 
to the following schedule: Wednes­
day, October 5—7:15 Sigma Nu, 
7:30 Phi Kappa Theta, 7:45 Tau 
Delta Phi, 8:00 Delta Tau Delta, 
8:15 Pi Kappa Alpha, 8:30 Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon.
Thursday, October 6—7:15 Al­
pha Tau Omega, 7:30 Theta Xi, 
7:45 Delta Upsilon, 8:00 Beta
Readers Needed
Theta Pi, 8:15 Kappa Sigma, 8:30 
Beta Sigma Rho, 8:45 men’s 
dorms.
Gym Schedule
The following is a list of times 
that the gym facilities are open 
to students:
Gymnasium: Mon-Fri., 3:30- 4:30 
pm; Wed., 7-9:30 pm for faculty, 
their families and evening stu­
dents; Sat., 10 am-5 pm except 
during football games and swim 
meets.
Swimming Pool: Mon-Fri., 4:30- 
6 pm til November 1; Sat., 2-5 pm 
except during football games and 
swim meets.
Handball Courts: Mon-Fri., 3:30- 
6 pm; Sat., 10 am-5 pm.
Weight rooms: Mon-Fri., 3:30-
6 pm; Sat., 10 am-5 pm.
Students are enouraged to make 
use of these facilities.
Tartan photo by Paul Horvath
Tech CG on a search-and-destroy 
mission.
Part-time readers for a blind stu­
dent are needed. Anyone interest­
ed should call Laura Seidler or 
Marita Mathews at 681-1680.
Two Nights Syria Mosque 
SAT., OCT 8th—SUN, OCT. 9th
TICKETS: $2.50—$3.50—$4.50 
Now on sale at Horne's and Gimbel's 
downtown. Mail orders—write Shows, 
Inc., Box 532,^Pittsburgh 30. Please 
enclose stamped envelope.
TICKETS MAY BE BOUGHT 
AT THE PITT BOOK CENTER

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, October 5, 1966
New Drama Prof Presents 
Demands Of His Profession
“Important, significant and exciting changes are occur­
ring now in colleges. Professional and university theaters 
are working more closely with each other. All the tired, soft 
ways of both are being shaken up by the fresh thinking that 
is going on.”
To make suck a broad state­
ment without the proper experi­
ence would make it meaningless. 
But, for a person really in the 
center of the theater world, such 
as Mr. Aaron Frankel, now teach­
ing acting technique and an ad­
vanced course in directing at CIT, 
it comes from a thorough and 
working knowledge of both the 
professional and college theater.
A Phi Beta Kappa at Columbia, 
he has been an associate professor 
of theater at Brooklyn College; as­
sociate professor of playwriting 
at the University of Iowa; assist­
ant professor of theater arts and 
director of theater workshop at 
Brandeis University, a teacher at 
Hagen-Berghof Studio, American 
Academy of Dramatic Arts, and 
currently teaches on weekends at 
the New School for Social Re­
search in New York.
Mr. Frankel has directed more 
than 100 straight and musical 
plays, both on and off Broadway 
and at stock theaters. He was 
awarded a Fulbright grant for 
study of the French theater and 
is presently executive vice-pres­
ident of the Society of Stage Di­
rectors and Choreographers.
As of September 1, Mr. Frankel 
joined Tech’s faculty as a visiting 
Mellon Professor. Here for one 
semester only, he is teaching act­
ing technique and an advanced 
directing course.
He is particularly interested in 
his GA 323 Workshop which em­
phasizes the work of collabora­
tion between directors and play- 
writes. He feels that the theater 
is in the middle of a“healthy fer­
ment noting. “The heart of the 
theater is in its playwrites. That’s 
why I’m so excited about 323 
Workshop at Tech.” He said that 
he will make the demands of his 
classes Tech.” He said that he 
will make the demands of his 
classes as “close to professional
Cross-Country 
Scoring Rules
A cross-country team wins its 
meet by scoring less points than 
its opposition. Each team is award, 
ed points for only its first five 
finishers. The points a runner 
scores correspond to the place he 
finishes, that is a runner placing 
first receives one point, a run­
ner finishing fifth scores five 
points. For a sample score take 
last week’s results against Jean­
nette.
Points 
Tech Jeannette
1st (tie) 
Burkholder (T) 
Cairns (T) 
Flynn (T)
4th Layman (J) 
5th (tie)
Butler (T) 
Philips (T)
7th Lintner (J) 
8th Criner (J)
9th Peschel (T) 
10th Morrison (J) 
11th Levine (T) 
12th Jos (J)
7
8
10
12
41
demands as I can.
Mr. Frankel feels that a large 
purpose of college drama is “to 
offer students as many tools and 
experiences, under the highest 
standards, to get a beginning of 
practical understanding of their 
own strengths and weaknesses as 
artists.” He is pleased, he added, 
that colleges are now hiring thea­
ter professionals who can teach 
and develop college talent for the 
professional theater.
Actor Commutes 
From New York
Actor Alan Manson, who will 
play one of the leading roles in 
Bertolt Brecht’s “A Man’s a Man” 
opening at the Pittsburgh Play­
house October 7, has pointed the 
way for aspiring actors who want 
to hold down two jobs at a time.
Manson has commuted almost 
daily between New York and 
Pittsburgh in order to perform 
his role as Ken Emerson on the 
afternoon CBS TV program “Edge 
of Night” while rehearsing for 
the role of Bloody Five in the 
Brecht play each evening.
In the Brecht “Comedy-with- 
music,” Manson acts an incredibly 
mean master sergeant who is very 
assertive of his authority. The 
play is a tin-pan hymn to the 
death of the individual in which 
Brecht rolls silent-film slapstick 
and 1920’s songs into an off-beat 
comedy of terrors.
“A Man’s a Man,” adapted by 
Eric Bentley, is artistic director 
John Hancock’s Pittsburgh pre­
miere production with a new pro­
fessional resident company.
Tickets for the October 7 open­
ing night and all subsequent per­
formances may be obtained at 
Gimbels, Hornes, Penn-Sheraton 
Hotel, Pitt Book Center or by 
phoning The Playhouse at 621-4445.
Grad Programs 
Receive Sanction 
Of U.S. Stipends
Reflecting confidence in Car- 
Carnegie Tech’s graduate 
program in the Natural Sci­
ences, English, and History, 
the U.S. Office of Education, 
this past spring awarded the 
school fellowships for full­
time students. In 1964, Car­
negie Tech initiated graduate 
programs emphasizing sec­
ondary school teach-training 
and awarding the M.A. de­
gress in these areas, and 31 
students hold the first fel­
lowships this year.
Eligible for English and Natural 
Science programs are perspective 
teachers or people who have not 
taught professionally within the 
last five years. Fellows who enter 
the program without teaching cer­
tificates can earn by extending 
their study over the summer to 
include the necessary education 
courses and practice teaching. A 
September-to-June program grants 
fellows stipends of $2000 with 
$400 for each eligible dependent; 
the summer students receive $400 
additional stipend plus $100 per 
eligible dependent. All fellows are 
exempted from tuition charges.
Unlike the English and Natural 
Science programs, the History 
pragram is geared to the experi­
enced teacher. Taking a year 
leave from teaching, these people 
receive a stipend of $4000, a de­
pendent allowance, and exemption 
from tuition charges. All three 
fellowship programs offer: obser­
vation of project high school 
classes; lectures; and access to 
extensive libraries of pertinent 
materials.
Natural Science fellows are; 
Vivian Lazur, and Eleanor Swart; 
English fellows are; Leslie Buch- 
man Kahle, Jane Keiler, and Jud­
ith Litman (these three woman 
are Tech alumnae), Carol Vogal, 
Patricia Ann Siegel, Madeline M. 
Molyneux, Donald Mariacher, 
Barbara Ann King, Irene Kalo- 
geras, Ellen Frank, Frederick El­
lis, and Mildred Eilertson. History 
fellows are: Rodny Allen. Clar-
Totals 17 
From this it is clear that points 
are awarded only to the top five 
finishers of each team.
Anyone can
GOOF.
With Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper, you 
can erase that goof without a trace.
Not a telltale smudge remains. A special surface per­
mits quick and easy erasing with an ordinary pencil 
eraser. For perfect papers every time, get Corrasable. 
In light, medium, heavy weights and Onion Skin. In 
handy 100-sheet packets and 500-sheet ream boxes. 
At Stationery Departments.
má
Only Eaton makes Corrasable.®
EATON PAPER CORPORATION. PITTSFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS
CFP Announces 
Further Plans 
For Greek Life
Further Rush events for 
the first semester were an­
nounced by the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents at its^ 
last meeting. A commuter 
lunch will be held on Tues­
day, Nov. 1, and a smoker on 
riday, Nov. 4. Friday, Dec. 2, 
is the date of a rush party.
In addition to second semester 
rushing, CFP has planned Greek 
Sing for March 17. Greek Week, 
normally held during the fall se­
mester, is being combined with 
Greek Sing this year. An off-cam­
pus formal is tentatively planned 
for the night-after Greek Sing.
CFP will also award a Spirit 
Trophy this year to the fraternity 
which shows the most school 
spirit. The presentation of this 
trophy will be made at Home­
coming. Under the leadership of 
President Bob Cooper of SAE, the 
Council hopes to sponsor more 
projects to help the campus.
CFP is also planning programs 
to improve fraternity facilities. 
Housing is being converted to the 
duplex system, and consideration 
is being given to a practice field 
for athletic teams behind More- 
wood Gardens.
ence Beebe, Robert Campbell, 
Zoe Chinn, Judith Cochrane, 
Glenn Davidson, George de Tuncq, 
John Fleckenstein, Louis Herbert, 
Rev. John Hughes, John Paul 
Kripowich Jr., Peter Lyon, John 
Marshall, William Murphy, David 
Powell, Lowell Shaffer, and Jack 
Strauss.
WRCT Desires DJ
Campus radio WRCT wishes to 
hire a female jazz announcer for 
a regular program. Any Carnegie 
Tech girl with lots of personality 
and a knowledge of jazz and con­
temporary music who is interest­
ed in doing a two to three hour 
program one evening a week is 
invited to visit WRCT, Skibo 48, 
and arrange for an audition. For 
further information, call Jeff Al­
len, director of jazz program­
ming, at 621-9728 or 682-9252. No 
previous experience is required.
When You Must Keep Alert
When you can’t afford to be drowsy, 
inattentive, or anything less than all 
there... here’s how to stay on top. 
V£/?V Continuous Action Alertness 
Capsules deliver the awakeness of 
two cups of coffee, stretched out 
up to six hours. Safe 
and non-habit-forming.
Continuous Action Alertness Capsules
foxcluAiw al ÇHob&A
Pittsburgh’s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since
DIAMONDRINGS
rZ.FgZiZen . . PRICE $275
If she has long slender fingers she will'admire this 
•olataire in gleaming 18 Kt. White Gold
Terms arranged
JOHN M. R0BKKIS' SON ('
Pittsburgh-429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon-731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 5, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 9
Seven Freshman Choices 
For Homecoming Queen
Bandee Bofkin
TechStatistics
Oberlin
14First Downs9
108Yards Rushing99
135Yards Passing62
23-12Passes11-5
0Had Intercepted1
1Fumbles Lost1
7-28.0Punts2-34.8
Individual Statistics: 
Rushing
Getto 
Batorsik
62 yards on 17 
51 qards on 11
Passing:
Hubka 23 attempts, 12 comple­
tions, for 135 yards.
Pass Receiving
Bell 92 yards on 8 
Scoring
Tech 0 14
Oberlin 0 0
0—14 
7— 7
Varsity C Club
The Varsity “C” Club is an or­
ganization whose members are 
varsity athletes. With the recent 
upsurge of spirit and enthusiasm 
on this campus, the “C” Club was 
organized to help keep this new 
spirit and to engender support 
for varsity sports. All lettermen 
are eligible for membership and 
should deem it a privilege to join.
The purposes of the “C” Club 
are:
1. To uplift the image and position 
of varsity athletics on his cam­
pus.
2. To establish better relations 
among the athletes, the faculty, 
and the administration.
3. To promote a greater participa­
tion by the student body in var­
sity sports.
4. To obtain a spirit of good fel­
lowship among all the athletes 
themselves.
Some of the ways the club 
hopes to accomplish these goals 
are by:
1. Helping to organize pep rallies.
2. Supporting each other.
3. Sponsoring some type of social
hour among the administration 
faculty, and athletes.
4. Working tfdtk the Varsity Clan.
5. Taking part in big weekends.
One of the functions of the old 
“C” Club was to hold two raf­
fles, one during halftime of home­
coming game and the other at the 
last home basketball game.
The new organization hopes to 
continue this tradition by again 
having a homecoming raffle this 
year.
Presenting the
JADE EASTVALETRAY
The exhilarating 
elegance of Jade East 
in a handsome new setting.
Man’s Dresser Valet together with 4 oz. 
bottles of Jade East Cologne and Jade East 
After Shave. $9.00 complete.
Key ring and Buddha Cuff Link/Tie Tac Set not included. 
Swank sole distributor. Available at fine stores everywhere.
Mae Won*
1. How come you’ve been getting such swinging computer dates?
I guess you haven’t seen my personality questionnaire.
2. “Five foot two. 113 pounds. Nearsighted.”
3. “Play the ocarina.4. “Like cucumber sandwiches.”
5. You mean to tell me those great-looking girls go for these things?
It’s the last item that really clinches it.
6. “Stepping into swell job with Equitable Life. Good pay. Fascinating work. Plenty of chance to move up.”
I think I’ll see Jane tonight, Susie tomorrow and Fran the day after.
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or write to Patrick Scollard, Manpower Development Division.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10019 © Equitable 1966
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 5, 1966
IM Review
NTB So$c RgsB
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sporta Editor
Well, the long hot season is over. The Pirates died in the stretch 
and the Orioles won the pennant in July. It strikes me very funny 
that the baseball season can go through 162 games and still never 
really prove which team was the best. I am referring, of course, to 
the National League. How can anyone in all honesty say that the 
Dodgers or Giants or Pirates was the outstanding team in the league. 
The Dodgers and Giants managed to finish 1-2 with some of the 
poorest hitting in either league. Both teams, however, relied upon 
their brilliant pitching aces.
The Dodgers were once again paced by Sandy Koufax, who re­
ceived a lot of help from Claude Osteen, and my personal pick for 
rookie of the year” Don Sutton, not to mention the fabulous relief 
pitching of Phil Regan. A year ago, Regan was an American League 
wash-up, and today he’s sporting the most tremendous won-loss rec­
ord (14-1) since Roy Face’s 18-1 season in 1959.
The Giants appear to have gone through the season with four 
players and one great manager. The ever reliable pitching of Juan 
Marichal and Gaylord Perry and the hitting of Willie Mays and Wil­
lie McCovey earned the Giants through the entire season. Herman 
Franks has to be the manager of the year for his efforts in carry­
ing the never-say-die Giart team.
The Pirates once again proved that you can’t win the National 
League pennant with hitting alone. Finishing with four hitters in 
the top ten and a team average of .280, the Bucs were still unable 
to win because of their great lack of pitching.
Of course, many other teams looked good. The Phillies played 
well all season, and the Braves were the best team in the league , 
during the final month of play. Even the Mets showed improve­
ment over all previous years by finishing ninth above the Cubs. 
As for the Cubs, well, when Leo Durocher took over the Cubs 
managament, he said, “This is not an eighth place team.” You 
know something, he was right.
The American League race was about par for the course, with 
Baltimore running away with the flag a long time ago. Hank Bauer’s 
acquisition of Frank Robinson proved to be the prime factor in 
giving Baltimore its first pennant in its history. The only surprise 
was to see the once all-powerful New York Yankees finish tenth 
for the first time in its career and to see the perennial cellar-dwell­
ing K.C. Athletics finish sixth behind A1 Dark.
Well, the excitement is past. Many people, myself included, are 
extremely disappointed, and many are very pleased. But, all con­
sidered, this season will be remembered as the duel between pow­
er and pitching, with pitching winning out io the stretch.
TECTEHN IOLI R'IC^IH, 14-7
Zak Scores 2 TD's In
Second Straight
by Ron Finnin
TartanSPORTS
Tech Harriers Victorious 
In Season Opener
by Don Baer
The C.I.T. Cross-country team started its season with 
a convincing victory over the Jeannette Harriers on a soggy 
Schenley course last Saturday. The Tartans looked strong 
in taking 5 of the first 6 places.
Bernie Flynn and co-captains Rodger Cairns and Harry 
Burkholder finished in a three-way tie for first place. Only 
Herb Layman, who finished fourth kept the Jeannette team
The Carnegie Tech Tartans ran their perfect record to 2-0 last Saturday as they 
downed the Oberlin Yeomen by a score of 14-7. The win marked the first season since 
1960 in which the Tartans were able to win more than one game and gave them their 
first two game winning streak since 1959, when they compiled a 7-1 mark. The win 
also gave the Tartans their first victory o er Oberlin in the five game series between 
the two teams that dates back to 1946.
Tech won the game in the first 
half and held on to it in the 
second. Both Tech’s offense and 
defense looked good in the first 
half as they pushed for 14 points 
and held Oberlin to only two 
first downs. From the start of the 
second half, however, Tech look­
ed like a changed ball team. The 
entire half was played in Tech 
territory and the ball was never 
downed beyond the Oberlin 45- 
yard line. Tech also had trouble 
with Oberlin’s rushing of passes 
in the second half as quarterback 
Hubka was dumped several times 
and only managed to complete 
five of ten passes he did throw.
Tech’s first scoring drive started 
at the very end of the first quar­
ter as they took over from a punt 
on their own ten-yard line and 
drove 90 yards for a TD. The 
drive took six first downs and in 
the process Larry Getto carried 
four times for 17 yards, Charles 
Zak and Ken Batorski each car­
ried three times for 12 yeards 
apiece, and Hubka completed four 
passes for 38 yards. The touch­
down came on fourth down and 
one to go as Zak drove it across 
the line.
Tech kicked off to the Oberlin 
ten-yard line and though Oberlin 
gained 20 yards o nthe set of 
making the first down. Oberlin 
downs a 15 yard penalty on the 
first play prevented them from 
then punted to the Tech 36. Rich­
ard Bell received the kick and 
after signalling a fair catch was 
hit by an Oberlin tackier resulting 
in a 15 yard penalty against Ober­
lin. On the next play, Ken Bator­
ski ran for 13 yards and a per- 
onal foul on the tackle resulted 
in another 15 yard penalty against 
Oberlin. Now on Oberlin’s 21 
Tech moved the ball to the one- 
yard line in six plays and again 
Zak earned it over for the score.
This time, the Tartans attempted 
the two point conversion and Ken 
Batorski carried the ball around 
the left end for the score. At 
the end of the first half it was 
Tech 14, Oberlin 0.
Oberlin’s score in the second 
half came early in the fourth 
quarter and started on their own 
47. The drive was highlighted by 
a 23-yard pass from Paul Brown 
to end Kris Smith, an 18-yard run 
by Jim Fabian, and a nine-yard 
touchdown pass to Pat Donlon.
The kick for the extra point was 
good and the score held at 14-7 
to the end of the game. Oberlin 
did threaten late in the fourth 
quarter as they made three first 
downs and drove in from their 
own 46 to the Tech 23; Tech’s de­
fense proved it wasn’t dead, 
though, as it stopped them cold 
on the 23-yard line and took over 
on downs to run out the clock.
Next week Tech travels to Al­
legheny for its first away game 
of the year. Allegheny is the one 
team that Tech beat last season, 
but could prove to be a tough foe, 
as evidenced by their victory over 
Case Tech last week. Game time 
is 1:45 and it will be broadcast 
over WRCT,
from a complete white wash. Lay­
man was, closely followed by two 
more Tartans, Kem Phillips and 
John Butler, who rounded out 
the five Tartan scoring men; giv­
ing Tech a total of 17 points. The 
next six places were taken by 
two Tech men and four Jeannette 
Harriers. When everything was 
over, Jeannette had a total of 
41 points.
The strong showing by the Tar­
tans was appreciated by Coach 
Olsen who is preparing the team 
for a home meet with W & J (to­
day, 4:00) and for an away meet 
with Grove City that promises to 
be one of the season’s toughest. 
If the team manages to beat 
Grove City they could well be on 
their way to an undefeated sea­
son (the third in the last four 
years).
The meet produced fast times 
for most of the Tartan runners 
and the strong performances of 
Dale Peschel, Eric Levine and 
Dennis Collins showed that the 
team has much depth and promise 
for the future.
Bernie Flynn, Roger Cairns, and Harry Burkholder make it a
“blanket finish” for Tech.
«fiiiiiiH*ittMiniiiiii«Mii>aiiaii*ii*ii(iiiiiaii(iitiiiiitii(;iiiiiiiiiiaiiaii(ii(iiiii(iiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiii -•¦»"«mnnmnminn*
TYPEWRITER
alts
Rentals
Repairs
CAMERA EXCHANGE, INC.!
9711 Fortes Ave. Rimirargli, Pa. 15213 = 
683-2181Oakland9» Only Camera Store
suiiiniai!aiiiiiBntHiiiiiiaiia'i(i.aMa'iiiirii«iii*Miiiaiiaiiiiia latiaiitiiiiiiiiaiiiiiaiiiiKiiiiiiiKiiiiitiKiiiiiaiKiiiiiatitiiar
Win
With the beginning of the IM 
football schedule last week, none 
of the top seeded teams played 
each other. However, in almost all 
the games played the team that 
was seeded highest was victori­
ous.
Packer's League
Sigma Nu beat ATO “B” in 
overtime after the regular game 
ended in a 21-21 tie. They also beat 
GSIA “E” 15-5. In other action 
within the league, ATO “B” lost 
their second game of the season 
to PiKA 26-12 while GSIA “E” 
defeated DTD 42-12.
Brown’s League 
TDP walloped SAE “B” 53-2 but 
then lost to a strong Bandits 19-17.
The Bandits beat BSP 31-2 while 
SAE “B” lost their second game 
by a score of 32-11 to GSIA “F.” 
Cowboy’s League 
TX lost to SAE 38-8 and to the *’ 
EJ’s 65-2. BTP“B” also lost twice; 
to KS by a 56-10 score and then 
to the EJ’s by a narrow 24-22 
margin. Also in the Cowboy’s 
League, Grad Nads “F’’ edged 
DU 10-7.
Colts’ League
TDP “J” lost to PKT 13-0 and 
then bowed to GSIA. “H” 11-8. 
PKT turned around and lost to® 
a strong Architects’ team 22-13 
while in the other league game, 
F Troop lost to the Architects 
25-2.
Chuck Zak slices Into the end zone for first Tech touchdown.
