MU
’ ¦figâs i ' m Él2TÍIC Camelie (fTatrfati
VOL. 27, No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Men must be at liberty to 
.say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro­
vided it wrongs 110 one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1932
Alumni Plan 
Sixth Annual 
Home-Coming
Cabaret Dinner Dance 
To Climax Reunion 
Saturday Night
ALUMNI WILL HOLD 
ANNUAL LUNCHEONS
Installation Of Floor Plates 
In Administration Hall 
To Be At 2 P. M.
By HENRIETTA STEINBERG
Plans Cor the return of Carnegie Tech alumni to the Campus at the annual home-coming, November 18 and 19, the week-end of the Pitt- Carnegie football game, have been completed. Among the big feat­ures of this home-coming are the class reunions of 1912, 19l7, 1922,
RODY PATTERSON
Rody Patterson ’23, Departm£nt of Architecture, College of Fine Arts, who is serving as chairman of the home-coming committee.
Program For
Home-Coming
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1811:00 A. M. — Registration, Thistle Hall.12:45 — President Baker’s luncheon for members of the class of 1912, President’s Office, Administration Hall.Luncheon for. all other re­turning alumni, Main Dining Room, Carnegie Inn.2:00 P. M. — Presentation of reunion class plates, main cor­ridor of Administration Hall. Dr. Baker’s welcome.2:30-4:00 P. M.—Welcome by members of administration and faculty.4:00 P. M.—Dean Green’s tea for alumnae,' Women’s Club Room, Gymnasium Building.8:15 P. M.—Play by the De­partment of Drama, Little Theater, College of Fine Arts.
SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 19Saturday morning left open for special reunion parties.2:00 P. M.—Carnegie Tech vs. Pitt, Pitt Stadium.7:00 P. M.—-Cabaret Dinner Dance, Ballroom, Hotel Schen- ley. Bridge. Price $2 per per­son. Informal.
Art Students 
Are Pledged 
By Sororities
Forty-Five Girls Accept 
Bids Of Four Art 
School Sororities
"'1921, aid 1932. Accompanying this article is a list of the reunion chairmen in charge of special class parties. Every alumnus should have communicated with his class chairman by this time.
The program begins on Friday morning, November 18, at 11 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Redecorate Hut 
Memorial Room; 
Draperies Hung
The Parry Room in the Hut, created in memory of the late 
Frances Comp Parry, former head of the Department of English at Carnegie, was recently redecorated with, hew draperies and lamps by the Frances Comp Parry Memorial Committee.'
The members of the committee are Miss Ethel Spencer, faculty representative who was appointed by Dr. Baker; Dr. Charles Wat­
kins, Director of Margaret Morri­son; Mrs. W. H. Harrold ’12, Presi­
dent of the Margaret Morrison Alumnae Association; and four alumnae of Margaret Morrison Col­lege who were class representa­tives of the four classes of wliicn Miss Parry was an honorary in em­ber; four are Miss Ruth Welty ’15, Miss Rachel Beatty ’18, chairman; 
Mrs. E. S. Thorpe ’19; and Miss Geraldine Kelly ’23.
The Parry room contains a fine collection of books on philosophy, religion, sociology, science, fine arts, literature, history, travel, and biography. The nucleus of this 
collection came from Miss Parry’s library which was presented to Carnegie at her death. From time to time carefully selected books are added to the original group by the Parry Memorial Committee.
United States Army 
Presents Equipment
A Consolidate Pursuit plane P. T. 1, complete with engine and in­
struments, was presented this summer to the Department of Aeronautics of Carnegie by the United States Army. The five- hundred ^horsepower Pratt and Whitney radial engine and the Azani power unit along with a Hispanb-Suiza V-Eight which was purchased from the Westingliouse Electric Company are being re­
conditioned by the students.The. Department of Aeronautics is designing and constructing a cradle dyanoraeter for testing pur­poses in the wind tunnel.
“Y” TO GIVE DINNER
ALUMNI CHAIRMAN
See Last Page For List
At the end of a thr.ee-day silence 
period last Wednesday, 45 .women 
weré: pledged to the four sorori­
ties in the College' of Fine Arts. 
Silence period, which began on 
November 6, was formally ended 
when Dean Mary Watson Green 
presented a list of pledges to the 
president of each sorority.
On Monday, November. 7, bids 
were submitted to the Dean’s of­
fice and mailed to rushees with a formal notice of bidding. Bids were answered by rushees on Wed­nesday afternoon before 4:30 o’clock, when tne Dean’s list was prepared.This, week the - introductions of the pledges to members of their respective sororities are being made. Yesterday the Alpha Kap­pa Psi membérs met their pledges at a supper meeting held in the Women’s Club room of the Gymna­sium Building ancr yesterday even­ing the Beta Pi pledges were form­ally introduced to the active mem­bers. Tonight Gamma Gamma Gamma is holding its customary formal pledge ceremony when their invited members .will receive a corsage in honor of their intro­duction to the sorority group and on Thursday evening at a dinner party the members of Beta Tau (Continued on Page Four.) '
Local Pastor 
To Speak At 
Chapel Today
Jeannette E. Fishel, 
Music Student, Will 
Offer Solo
DR.B AKER INCHARGE 
OF CHAPEL SERVICE
East Liberty Presbyterian 
Church Minister Well 
Known On Campus
The Rev. Dr. Stuart Nye Hutch­
ison,' pastor of the East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church, Penn and' 
Highland avenues, will address 
members of the student body and faculty at the third chapel of the year today at 12:30 in the Little 
Theater, College of Fine Arts. Dr. Thomas S. Baker will preside and road the Scripture.
Reverend Hutchison has spoken 
before Carnegie student groups on several occasions in the past and is well-known on the campus. He 
has not announced the subject of his address.
Jeannette E. Fischel ’34, will 
play a violin solo and will be ac­companied ,on the -organ by Mr. Matthew Frey, a member of the faculty of the Department of Mu­sic.
Seats will be reserved for the 
various campus honoraries who will attend the service in a body. 
These organizations are attempt­ing to stimulate interest in these semi-monthly noon hour services sponsored' by the Carnegie Stu­dent Council and Y. M. C. A. and addressed by prominent Pitts­
burgh pastors. All services' are non-sectarian.
Inter-Fraternity 
Council To Hold 
Freshman Talk
A program to consist of brief 
talks on fraternities at Carnegie 
and the'new rushing rules will be 
held for the freshmen in the Little 
Theater Thursday at 12:30. The 
assembly is being sponsored by 
the Publicity Committee of the 
Interfraternity Council.
All freshmen who ordinarily 
have gymnasium classes at 12:30; 
Thursday, will be excused to at­
tend the special assembly. The 
program will not last longer than 
one-half hour, leaving sufficient 
time for lunch.For speakers, the committee has chosen men who have shown in­
terest in fraternity activities on the campus. Mr. Allen E. Rise- 
dorph, instructor in physical edu­cation, will speak on “Fraternities at Carnegie.” Following Mr. Rise- 
dorph’s talk, a summary of the 
rushing rules will be presented to the freshmen.At the Interfraternity Council 
meeting on Saturday, November 12, 
the suggestion was made that a Interfraternity bowling league be 
formed. If there are any fraterni­ties interested in this sport their representatives should make known at the next meeting of the council.
Dr. Feliowes Will 
Speak On Friday 
In Carnegie Hall
Dr. Edmund H. Feliowes, emi­nent English musician and histo­rian, will speak at the Carnegie Lecture Hall, Friday at 4:30 p. m. on the English Madrigal. His ap­pearance is sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha, men’s musical honorary, and Sigma Alpha Iota, women’s musical honorary. The price of admission, will be. fifty cents.
A prominent figure in the Eng­lish musical world, Dr. Feliowes was formerly director of the choir of St. George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle. I-Ie Is the recipient of the degrees of bachelor of music and doctor of music from Oxford Uni­versity and Dublin University, re­spectively.
He is largely responsible for the recent revival of interest in the Madrigal in England, Germany, and America. He has devoted a great part of his life to a study of the early song-forms, both religious, and secular, that were common in later medieval England. Through his constant work and extensive researches, he has become the foremost living authority on the Elizabethan and Jacobean epochs of English history.Speaking of one of Dr. Feliowes’ lectures, a critic has said that the numerous facts he presents, far from- being' academic or abstruse, contain much of interest and even of fascination. The material that Dr. Feliowes has collected about “merrie olde England” appeals not only to the scholar and musician, but to any one who is at all in­terested in England and her tra­ditions.Dr." Feliowes spoke at. Carnegie in 1927 under the sponsorship of a Carnegie organization.The present lecture is to be il­lustrated either by the Carnegie Madrigal Choir, or by records that have been made under his person­al direction by the- Choir of St. George’s Chapel and the well- known English singers.Tickets may be secured from any of the following: Dorothy .T.Morse ’33, Vivian O. Johnston ’33, Grace C. Metzger ’34, Edward Yohe ’35, H. Richard Dryden ’33, Chaun- cey V. Kelley ’33, George W. Youngling ’33, and Miss Lawton in the Department of Music.
Student Directory 
On Sale Tomorrow
Board Appoints Neiv 
Standing Committee
The executive board of Carnegie lias appointed a new committee to be known as the Standing Com­mittee on Historical Records.
This group will select and file such material as will prove of permanent value for reference or as data for histories of the in­stitution that may be written in 
the future. The material will in­clude published documents, news­paper clippings, articles of his­toric interest, photographs, and motion picture films.
Professor Alexander Jay Wurts completed some preliminary work in this direction prior to his death last spring. The committee com sists of Dean Tarbell, chairman; Professor Trinfcs, Messrs. Gregg, Miller and James.
Eddie Weitz 
Tor Play For 
Dance On Sat.
Admission Will Be $1.00 
Per Couple; Tickets 
Sold At Door
Eddie Weitz
Eddie Weitz and his Pennsylva­nians will furnish the music for the Pitt-Carnegie football, dance Saturday in Thistle Hall from 9 to 12 o’clock. 
This band has been playing at the Villa Royale where their music was a night­ly feature on one of Pitts­burgh’s lead- i n g radio s t a t i o n s. They have also been featured at West View Park, Woodlawn Park, Trenton, New Jersey; I-Iaddon Hall Hotel* New Atlantic Hotel, and Far East Res­taurant, Pittsburgh. The band Is noted for its vocalists, its trio, and its many amusing novelties. Fol­lowing the practice of many lead­ing bands of the country, Eddio Weitz supplies his own amplifying system to amplify not only the music but the vocal novelties as 
well.WTith next Saturday the annual 'Homecoming Night, this ' dance will bo held in honor of the Alumni. Many Carnegie graduates are expected to be back. The Cabaret Dance which is to be held at the Hotel Schenley will be at 7 o’clock in order that the Alumni may be able to attend both affairs.As usual the Carnegie team will be admitted free of charge. The Pitt team and student body is In­vited to attend. The admission price will remain at the customary 
tee of $1.00 a couple.
Students Receive 
Twelve Mentions
Engineers Decide 
On Annual Aivard
The Y. W. C. A. and y. M. C. A. will be hosts at a Thanksgiving dinner on November 24 at 6:00 in Carnegie Inn for all students who are unable to go to their homes for Thanksgiving vacation. Students 
may secure their tickets at the “Y” office before the dinner. All places will be reserved.
This year’s Student Direc­
tory, containing the name, ad­dress, and telephone number of each day school student and a- list of the social and honorary fraternities and sororities and their members, will go on sale tomorrow. Copies may be pur­chased for 50c each at the “Y” Office or from staff members who. will be stationed at various places on the campus.This directory is published by the Tri-Publications staff and is edited by Robert E. Robinson.
At a meeting of the Eta Kappa Nu fraternity, national electrical engineering honorary, Sunday, No­vember 6, at which prospective members were interviewed, an­nouncement was made that in con­
junction with the Carnegie Chap­ter of . the American institute of Electrical Engineers, the highest ranking junior in the Electrical Department is to be awarded a 
suitably engraved handbook for electrical engineers. According 
to present plans, the award will be made annually at the Carnegie Day exercises.Eacli year the recipient will be selected by the faculty :of the De­partment of Electrical Engineer­ing and the officers of the two elec­trical engineering fraternities making the award. The choice will be based upon the sophomore scholastic standing of the student. General attitude and participation in student activities will, also be 
considered.
At the last Beaux Arts Judgment in Sculpture, held in New York, November 7, students of the De­partment of Sculpture received 
three First Mentions and nine Mentions from the nineteen sket­ches they submitted.
The three First Mentions were awarded to Louise Evans ’35, Dorothy George ’34, and . James Sansonnetti, night. Mentions were awarded to Helen Edmunson '34. Ruth McBain ’35, Helen Meigs ’34 Olga Ravitch ’33, Katherine McSwigan, special, Rosemary Sax­ton ’34 and James Sansonnetti, night.These awards were given for the first and second programs of the year. The first program, was a de­sign for bronze doors and the second a design for a wall foun­tain. The third program is to be a design for a statue for a niche, Judges for the Beaux Arts Compe­titions included Edmond McCar- tan, Robert Eberhardt, Gatunneo Ciccere,' Vincent Galenski, John Peters, Rudalf Evans, J. Vailey Ellis and Henry Herring.
Charity Drive 
Begins After 
Week’s Delay
‘Y” Makes Special Offer 
To Students Who 
Donate $1.00
MEMBERSHIP CARDS 
RECEIPT DONATIONS
Carnegie Graduate Designs 
Poster For National 
C a in p a i g n
By MARGARET GRIFFIN
After a delay of several days, 
caused by the lack of necessary material, from the downtown or­
ganization, the annual Welfare Drive, has begun 011 the Car­negie campus, and will last until November 23. The local campaign, which is directed, by Student Coun­cil, is part of the national move-: ment to obtain relief for unem­ployment and to aid the seventy- odd social agencies benefiting from the Welfare Fund. Although 110 quota has been set this year for the local drive, the committee in charge hopes that a contribution of one dollar from each student will be realized.As Inaugurated last year, the Welfare Fund Drive at Carnegie will replace the usual Y. M. C. A. drive, and contributions of one and three dollars will be receipted by membership cards to the Y. M. C. A. A one dollar membership will entitle the owner to social priv­ileges in the downtown “Y” in Pittsburgh, and—111 the case of out-of-town students—to privileges in their local chapter. A three dollar contribution to the Fund will entitle the donator to a regu­lar six dollar membership in any 
regular Y. M. C. A. chapter. The Carnegie "Y” plans its budget en­tirely from the proceeds of the Na­tional Welfare Fund and it is 'with this income that the “Y" spono* sors such campus services as Freshman Week activities.Carnegie occupies an Interesting position in the National Drive in­asmuch as a former Carnegie stu­dent, Catherine Eisaman ’23, Pitts­
burgh free-lance artist and illus­trator, has had one of her posters, a picture of a ten-year-old boy, done in water colors, accepted for nation-wide, use In the. National 
Welfare Drive.The budget to be pledged this year in the Allegheny County Wel­fare Fund campaign is ?2,480,- 159.98. Of this amount,' only 3.5 per cent will be spent for cam­paign expenses. The ofilcial ap­portionment of the budget will be:12.1 per cent for Emergency As­
sociation, covering essentially the cost of operation of the associa­tion, supplies for the Thrift Gar-
(Continued on Page Four.)
Fine Arts Senior 
Receives Award
Vito Battista ’33, Department of 
Architecture, was awarded the 
Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology Prize of 1000 francs, while 
studying at the Fountaineblau 
School of Fine Arts at Fountaine­
blau, France; the past summer.
The award is made to the stu­
dent who secures the largest num­
ber of credit points in Architect­ural Design. Enrolling in June, lie studied for three months under such masters as Carlu,. Labatut, Alaux and Bray. He riot only earned the required number of points for the diploma of the,Foun­taineblau School, but so far exceed­ed the requirement that lie gained the lead in the department which entitled him to the prize.At the conclusion of three months at Fountaineblau, Mr. Bat­tista spent a month travelling in Switzerland and Italy where he 
made an intensive study of the classic ruins and examples of Renaissance Architecture at Milan, Genoa, Florence and Venice. '
PROM CHAIRMAN
CHARLES E. SLATER
Charles E. Slater '35, Department 
of Architecture, who was recently elected Chairman of the Men’s 
Junior Prom.
Slater Made 
Chairman For 
Junior Prom
Louis E. jagnow, ’34 Is 
Assistant Chairman 
Of Committee
Appointments' of Charles F. Sla­ter '35, as chaiyman, and Louis E. Jagnow ’34, as vice chairman oi 
tho men’s junior prom oommitteo, were announced at a meeting hold by that committee last Friday.Mr. Slater, the chairman, is a junior In the Department of Archi­
tecture In tho Collego of Fine Arts, a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Delta Skull, junior class honorary fraternity, and 1b treasur­
er of tlie College of Fino Arts Sen­ate.
Mr. Jagnow, tho vico chairman, is a junior in the Department of Works Management in tlio College of Ind'ustyles, a member of Kappa Sigma, social fraternity, Delta Skull, honorary fraternity, and Is a member of tho varsity basketball team.
The prom commlttoo, mado up of a general aud vice chairman, the president of tho junior class 
of each college, and two students from the junior 
class of each collego consists of tho following othor members: Llbbua Lewis, president of the junior class In the Collogo'of Industries; Julian von der Lanoken, president of tho 
junior class in tho College of Fino Arts; Charles E. Davis, prosldont of tho junior class In tho Collego of Engineering; Colin M. Stewart and Sajnuel O. WIclcs, from tho Collogo of Industries; James E. I-Ialforty 
and Carl Do Witt Forsinan, from tho College of Engineering; and 
James M. Boyle and William A. Trimble, from tho Collogo of Fino Arts.
Series Of Seven 
Lectures Planned,
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
BY STANTON WILLIAMS
Dean Tarbell was born in Bos­ton, and attended Harvard from 1891 to 1894, but did not complete the course because of financial cir­cumstances. He returned 23 years later for one semester and secured his degree.He engaged in magazine work in his home town from 1894 to 1908, and was for several years editor of the 
National Mag* azln6. Iiis most pelasant memories of- that perlQd, he says, concern 
several long trips he had as correspond­ent, four to 
Europe and t .w o to the tropics.. One involved a Dean Tarbell residence at an Oxford Settlement house in the . East End of London, and an­other the sailings of Tommy At­kins for the Boer War.Dean Tarbell took his first posi­
tion at Carnegie as assistant sec­retary in June, 1908, and became Registrar the following year. From 1917 to 1919 he was president of the American Association of Col­legiate Registrars. During tlie war he served the government as assistant educational director in the western district comprising Missouri, Kansas. Colorado, and Wyoming. Since 1919 he has been Dean of Men at Carnegie,
. Dean Tarbell has a son who is In 
business in.Boston, a daughter In an eastern school, arid a daughter 
living In Lorain, Ohio.
. On being asiced aDout Ills "extra­curricular” act.lv I ties. Dean Tar­bell confessed that as he could no longer run the hundred in ‘'ten- fiat," he had to content himself to certifying the eligibility of those 
lure for him.
"Walking is now my prosaic form of exercise,” to quote him, "although that can have its haz­ards if a speedster catches one un­awares. The latest Idiosyncrasy to take me in violent form is an attachment, in the summer, for 
Cape Cod.
A tentative program for the sixth annual lecture series in the Department of Printing has been 
arranged by Mr. F. J. I-Iartman, Di­rector of Education of the United 
Typotlietae of America.Hartman, Director of Education of 
the United Typotlietae of America.The subject of the first lecture held this, November is "Produc­tion Control” by Mr. B. B. Eisen- berg, chairman of the United Ty- 
pothetae Committee on Education. In December Mr. Louis Flader, 
Chicago,.’ will speak on “Modern Trends in Process Color Printing." At the twentieth anniversary of the founding of the Department of Printing at Carnegie M,r. Harry Gage, vice president of the Mer- genthaler Linotype Co., will talk on "Printing: Twenty Years Ago 
and Today.” Late In January Mr. L. B. Siegfried; editor of the 
"American Printer’’ will lecture on "The Fifty Books on the Year.”‘‘The Theories of Color,” will be the topic for the February meet­ing. Mr. Charles R. Conquergood of Toronto, Canada, will be the 
speaker. In April Mr. Merritt Haynes of the American Type 
Founders Company will talk about "The Story of Type.” The series will end with a discussion of the topic “New Printing Methods and Processes/’ with Mr. W. D. J-Iall as the speaker.
Tartan Regrets Error 
In Ommitting Name
The Tartan . regrets that the name of Mr. William Pfoutn, head instructor In Pattern Mak­ing, was omitted In a story in Ia3t week’s Tartan. Mr. Pfouto was one of the five Carnegie men to recelvc a complimentary copy of the "Life of Carnegie” from the Carnegie Corporation in recognition of the fact that he was an Intimate friend of Mr. Carnegie and that he has been at Carnegie since the founding of the school in 1905.
Sir James C. Irvine 
Will Speak In Music 
Hall On Carnegie Day
Council Guest 
Of Dr. Baker 
At Banquet
Plans Pep Rally On Eve 
Of Carnegie-Pitt 
Football Game
Dr. Thomas S. Baker has invited 
the members of the Carnegie Stu­
dent Council to attend a formal 
dinner to be .given in their honor 
at the Pittsburgh Athletic Associa­
tion Thursday evening. This ban­quet is one of tho three annual 
functions attended by the Student Council in a body.At the last meeting, Student 
Council renewed the agreement made with the Student Council of the University of Pittsburgh where­by the students of both colleges are to confine' celebrations before 
and after the game Saturday to their respective campuses. The 
councils have agreed to pay for damage done by students.In order to dispense with unor­
ganized escapades which have re­sulted in the destruction of proper­ty, Student Council has scheduled a pep rally and bonfiro In tho Car­negie ’¦fig from 10:30 to 11:00 on the ovo of tho gnmo.Tho program is boing arranged 
by a committee under tho chair­manship of Robert R. Smith. Other members of the commltteo Include: William J. Burns, Joan A. Ritzell, 
Anno R. Warden, and Josef L. Lentz. The program whjch will 
follow a snako-danco will consist of music by tho ICIltlo Bund, cheer­
ing, apd possibly a talk by Advis­ory Coach “Wally” Stoffan.Tho council also granted Mortar Board, women's senior honorary, 
permission to sell tho sonlbr pam­phlets this year.By action of Council, a budget was mado providing oxiponso money to send afosef L. Lent/., presldont, to tho annual convention of tho National Student Federation which will bo hold at Tulano Unlvorslty, 
Now Orloans, La., Docombor 28-31. 
T^o National Student Federation) Is eomposud of studont prosldonts 
and ¦â¦s'Vgi¦O of tho loading col- logoa of tho country, and although Onrnoglo 1s not a moinbor, II. Is permitted to 'sit In at tho confer- onco as an "observer.”
A motion to tho effect that a po* 
tltlon from tho Druid Society, men’s sophomore honorary, would' 
bo considered at the mooting of tho Council tills ovonlng wan also 
passed. 'Phis action Is nocossary because tho organization has boon 
Inactlvo for tho past yoar.
Glee Clubs Will 
Give Fall Dance 
On Friday Night
Will Ryshanek and his National 
Broadcasting Chain Orchestra has been secured to play at the an­nual fall dance of tho combined Men’s and Women's Glee Clubs, 
which will be held In Thlstlo Hall, Friday evening from 9 until 1 o’clock.Tickets for the dance are $1.00 
and may be purchased from any member of either glee club or at the door. Since this dance, which is to be informal, is on the eve of the Carnegie-Pitt football game, 
the committee hopes that it will serve as a climax to the Pep Rally which Student Council is sponsor­ing that evening.Chaperones for the dance are Dr. and Mrs. Karl L. Malcherelc, 
Prof. and Mrs. Harold L. Lang, Dr. and Mrs. Lawrence Schultz, 
Dr. and Mrs. J. H. Neelley. Pa­trons are Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Dean Mary W. Green, Dean and Mrs. Arthur W. Tarbell, Dean Glen- dlnning Keeble, Prof. and Mrs. J. Vick O’Brien, Dr. and Mrs. Charles II. Watkins, Dr. and Mrs. Rollin V. Davis, and Dr. and Mrs. Arthur C. Jewett.Henrietta L. Warner ’33, is chair­man of the woman’s committee, and Wilfred R. Uffelman ’33, of the 
men’s committee.
Classes Suspended; All 
Members Of School 
Will Attend
SCHOLARSHIP CUPS 
WILL BE AWARDED
Kiltie Band And R. O. T, C. 
Will Lead March To 
Carnegie Hall
By PETER V. PAULUS
Sir James C. Irvine, Principal 
and Vice Chancellor of the Uni­
versity' of St. Andrews in Scotland 
.and a distinguished scientist and 
man of letters, will bo the main 
speaker at the Carnegie Day exer­
cises'Which will be held next Tues­day at 10:30’iu the Carnegie Music I-Iall.
According to Dean Tarbell, Sir Irvine, is perhaps tlio most 'distin­guished and most interesting per­son ever to. speak at Carnegie. Sir Irvine is also Chairman of the ForostrProducts Research Board, Chairman of the Advisory. Council of tho Scottish Education Depart­ment, and formerly Vice President of tlio Royal Society of Edinburgh. He received Ills education at Allan Glen’s Schpol and Royal Technical College at Glasgow, and at tho Unlvorsltlos of ‘ St.’ Andrews and Lolpzlg. ITo holds Ph.D., D. Sc., and LL.D. degrees arid has receiv­ed honorary degrees from Chm- brldge, Princeton, Durham, and Yale. He gL one of the. foremost living authorities in tho chemistry of sugars, having boon awarded the Davy Mpdal of tho Royal So­ciety for his research In the con­stitution of the complex sugars, dlnacdharoses and polysacclmrosos, and for his studios and discoveries In starch and Insulin. Ho also Is a Willard Gibbs Modalllst, lOlliot Crosson Modalllst, and an Honor­ary Foreign Mombor of tho Amer­ican Chomlcul Society. Before his nppolnlmont. to tho Vico Chancdl- orshlp of SI;. Andrews ho whs pro­fessor of chemistry and later (loan of tho faculty of science at that 
university. Professor Phelps ofi 
Yale University has spoken of Sir Irvine as a Scottish humorist suinnia cum laudo, and as tho only man In tho world fig.¦ had over persuaded Sir James Barrio, tho 
groat British dramatist, to make a speech.As hart boon customary on Car- (Continued on Page Throo)
Pi Tau 
To Make First 
Semester Call
Sigma
Hi-Y Elects Officers 
At Today’s Meeting
The second meeting of the newly- formed Carnegie III-Y will be held 
today at 11:00. Officers will bo, (•looted, and plans will be made for future mootings. Tho UI-Y Is a 
freshman organization for tho pro­
motion of clean speech, clean schol­
arship, and cloan sportsmanship at Carnegie. Tho club Is a tempor­
ary organization and will be dis­continued when the fraternity rush­ing season begins. Tlio club Is 
open to former HI-Y members.Tho nominees, for officers are: Presldont, Richard W. Dennison 
'86, Clifton P. Boutelle ’30; vice president, Ralph T. Herbert ’36, James M. Latta '36; secretary- treasurer, Herman F. Wohlsen, .’36, 
and1 George B. Rial '36.
Two features ol! the mooting of tho Curnpglo Mechanical Engineer­ing Sooloty to bo hold today at 11:80 In Room 10 of Machinery Hall will bo the annual first somos- ter call by PI Tau Sigma, national mechanical engineering honorary, and 'tho presentation of a paper, "Tho Mochanlcs of Gas Flow,” by W. S. Smith '33.PI Tau Sigma will call prospec­tive members who wore chosen at Interviews held Sunday, November 0. The qualifications necessary for selection are: engineeringpromise, high scholarship, and per­sonality.A Marks Mechanical Engineer's Handbook was presented to the sophomore in the Department of Mechanical Engineering who at­tained the highest standing in the freshman class last'year. The win­ner of this award, which is made annually by Pi Tau Sigma, is D. IT. Hakmann ’35 with a factor of 5.3. The runner-up was R. J. Failla ’35 with a factor of 5.0 for the -year.At the C. M. E. S. meeting held November 4, Mr. S. Clifford, for many years chief sales engineer for the Pittsburgh Water Meter Company, spoke on “Selling in En- gineerlrig.’’ Especially interesting was his comment on applying the principles of salesmanship to the selling of the graduate engineer’s personal ability.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, November 15:Hi-Y Meeting,. Commons Annex, 11:30 a. m.Chapel, Little Theater, 12:30 p. 
m.—The Reverend Stewart N. Hutchison, speaker.Friday, November 18:Cosmopolitan Club Meeting, M. 
M. C. G'. Recreation ITall. Margaret Morrison AlumnaeTea, 3 to 5 p. m., Women’s Club Room.'Combined Glee Club Dance, 9 to 
1, Thlstlo Hall.Alunmuo Federation Cabaret Dance, 7 p.. m., Schonloy Hotel.I Presentation of Plates, Adminis­tration Building; 2 p. m. Saturday, November 19: 
Plft-Carnegle football' ganio, 2 p. rn., Stadium.Pltt-Carnegle football dance, 9 to 12, Thistle Hall.Sunday, November 20:,Margaret Morrison Class of 1927 Tea, 3 to 5 p. m., Women’s Club Room.

---------------------------------------------------

2TTIE CARNEOTE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1932
THE SEA WOLF
**Nature in the Raw” —as por- 
traycd by the noted artist, N. C. 
Wyeth ... inspired by the infamous 
Captain Kidd’s fierce raids on the 
gold'laden Spanish galleons 
* (1696), which made him the 
scourge of the Spanish Main. 
"Nature in the Raw is Seldom 
Mild” — and* raw tobaccos have 
no place in cigarettes.
THE
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN
e
BY JOE BRONSON
SPECTATORS WHO WENT TO THE XAVIER CONTEST in Cincin­
nati on Saturday with the Idea of seeing a football game were treated 
to a spectacle seldom seen on a college gridiron. It was a contest 
between the referee and the Tartan backs. The idea was to see who 
could gain the most ground. First George Kave! would take the ball 
and go up the field for nine yards; then the referee would pick it up and walk down the field fifteen yards. After which, tlie process was repeated. For a little while It looked bad for the Skibos, but despite tho fact that the officials carried the ball more times than did the Tartans our lads would not be disheartened so they came off the field with a 15-0 victory.Carnegie’s hopes for the Pitt game received a severe jolt when Bill Splsak was forced to leave the game because of a dislocated elbow. It Is doubtful If Spisak will bo In the lineup for several weeks. Tom Coulter, track captain and one of the school’s best athletes, ask him, played In his first varsity football game and did right well. He scored the Skibos’ second touchdown on an end run.
ON SATURDAY AFTERNOON, WHEN THE TARTAN FOOTBALL TEAM goes over to the Stadium to attempt to conquer the undefeated Panther eleven it will make the eighteenth time that teams of the two schools have met, and the Tartans will he out to score their fifth vic­tory over their greatest rival. Most football fans would say that that possibility of such a victory 1O about equal to Mr. Hoover’s chance of being the new Secretary of State, for figures show that Jock Suth­erland’s team should win by a margin of forty-one to fifty-four points. Tho well known comparative scores seem to indicate just such a thing. That is, Notre Dame defeated the Plaid by forty-two points, and Pitt took tho Irish by twelve points which gives Pitt a fifty-four point ad­vantage. Also, Pitt defeated West Virginia 42-0; West Virginia lost to Temple 14-13; Temple tied Carnegie 7-7; all of which leaves Pitt with a forty-one point advantage from that set of figures. Yet com­parative scores mean little in football. Each year during the course of a season there are so many upsets and so many times that a team will play unbeatable football one week only to lose to a mediocre opponent tho next week, that statisticians have found little success in predict­ing the outcomes of gridiron classics. This is particularly true in games involving traditional rivals. For instance, Dartmouth has suc­ceeded in defeating Yale but once in their entire gridiron history and many times the Big Green team has been the favorite. Cornell has liad only a slightly better record against its Thanksgiving Day foe, tho University of Pennsylvania. And right here in Pittsburgh who would have over predicted the victories of the Tartans in ’23 and ’24? There are many people who favor Pitt to win, hut one will have a hard time finding many who are willing to put up very great odds against tho Skibos.
THE FIRST TARTAN VICTORY OVER ITS CITY RIVAL was back In 1923 when the two teams met after a three-year break in the schedule. It was on this afternoon that Jimmy Robertson wrote his name on the scroll as one of Carnegie’s greatest sports heroes by scoring the touch­down that beat the Panthers 7-2. The play which won the game started as an ordinary end run with Jimmy carrying the ball, but when ho saw several opponents racing in toward him he stopped, reversed his field, and raced around the opposite end for the lone tally of the game. Of almost equal fame was the run of “Dike” Beede’s in the 
game the following year. In this contest, Beede, on a spinner, raced through the Panthers line and on down the field for 60 yards where he was brought down on the two-yard line. On the next play a line plunge netted the touchdown which won the game 6-0. The next vic­tory was In 1926 when Harpster, Letzeler, Mefort, and Donahue were making names for themselves In the sport world. Bill Donahue and Cy Mefort each reeled off long runs to score In a game in which the Panthers were completely outclassed. Only penalties and bad breaks kept the 14-0 score from mounting higher. The fall of 1928 found the 
Tartans with one of the strongest teams in the history of the school, and they entered the Pitt game as the favorite. But It was a bad day for football. Rain fell throughout the contest and the field was wet and slippery. Towards the end of the second quarter the Plaid eleven penetrated deeply Into Pitt territory and it looked like there would surely be a touchdown. But fate wan with Pitt, for Just then the gun sounded ending the half. Harpster’s pnsses found their mark In the third quarter and before the Panthers knew what was happening 
the pigskin was on the eight-yard line. On fourth down with a yard to go Harpster sneaked through center for a touchdown. Tho game ended 6-0. The Pitt boys were out In front In 1929 by a 34-13 score, With a blocked kick, a fumble, and an intercepted pass leading to Panther scores early In the game the Skibos Just couldn’t overtake them.It was a strange piece of luck that won the game for Jock Suther­land's proteges In 1930. Tho fact of the matter Is Pitt scored seven points without making a touchdown. A pass early In the half gave our opponents tho ball within our ton-yard line. On fourth down there was «11II two yards to go to tho last mark, so Franklin Hood was given the ball and ho started for tho center of tho line. To the officials It looked as If Hood oronsod tho mark; niaybo ho did but he didn't have tho ball. Big John Karols who was at the bottom of tho pile had the ball safely under him on tho one-yard lino whoro Hood had fumbled It, but no amount of pleading or arguing could make tho offlolals chango tholr decision. In tho socond half tho Tartans carried the ball all over tho field but couldn't score until late In the last suarter. Tho kick for extra point was blooked so t|io gamo was lost 7-6. Last yoar the supposedly weak Skibos throw an awful scare Into Captain Eddie Baker and his great team. Two long passes netted the Blue and Gold two touchdowns which wore Juat one more than the Stoffonltes could garner. That great Pitt line which was so highly touted was outplayed in every department of the gamo that afternoon. Carnegie gained fifteen first downs to their opponents' seven and our neighbors were mighty glad to have tho game end when It did.
A VICTORY THIS YEAR WOULD BE VERY SWEET for most of tho seniors who so far as undergraduates have been unable to cele­brate a win over our traditional rival. It would be loads of fun to be able, just once, to have the upper hand over the students on the other side of the hill. Then, too, when we become old alumni we could brag about how when we were in college our team had downed the Pan­thers. But why not? Each day my enthusiasm and confidence takes a notch upward so by Friday night I will be at a point where I will 
think Pitt is in for an awful trimming; but I hope my enthusiasm doesn’t land me down in the Oakland police station as it almost did last year and two years ago, with quite a few other boys. Pitt luis had its holiday; Duquesne lias had theirs; so Monday I am intending to stay home and sleep. Who knows but what Saturday’s contest may produce another Robertson, or Donalioe, or Beede. Stranger things have happened.____________________________________________
Howló 4vo/D ßoNE&T
S tSuSdStu en
A TRAI MED CAT
Skibos Prepare For Annual
Encounter With Panthers
-----------------------------------------:-----------#
AND still they lot him livo! Even 
X\_ after ho said a refugeo was u 
man who took charge of prize fights!
Thore’s just ono thing to do—and 
high time somobody did it. Intro­
duce Bill Boner to a good pipe and 
good tobacco. A pipo helps a man 
got down to straight thinking. Col­
lege men know, too, that there’s ono 
smoking tobacco without a rival. 
That’s Edgeworth.*
Here’s an idea. Fill your pipe 
with Edgeworth Smoking Tobacco 
and light up. Now—take a good long 
puff. Ever try anything like that 
before? Of course not, for Edge- 
worth is a distinctive and different 
blend of fine old burleys.
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two
forms—Edgoworth Ready- Rubbed 
and Edgoworth Plug Slice. All sizes 
— ISfipockotpackago to pound humi­
dor tin. If you'd liko to try before 
you buy, write for a frco sumplo 
packot. Address Larus & Bro. Co., 
120 S. 22d St., Richmond, Va.
*A rocont Invoatlgntion 
ahowod Edgeworth to bo 
tho favorito «moltini; to- 
bncco nt >12 out of 51 
lending collogus.
Plaid Scores 
Easy Victory 
Over Xavier
Spisak, C o ri Iter Score 
As Penalties Mar 
Xavier Contest
The old Tartan bandwagon was a bit hesitant in playing the vic­tory march in their Xavier tune-up but when the Cincinnati concert 
finally ended tlie Clansmen carried away with them a 15 to 0 advan­tage. At no time, before the 10,000 shivering spectators, did the Skibos seem to take the game seriously or get up enough steam to carve out a large score. Carnegie was intent on winning only and once their advantage was established, were content to coast-in.Penalties Slow Up GamePenalties which occurred with a 
high school consistency through­
out the first half kept the Tartans from endangering the Musketeer 
goal. Whether poor officiating or poor playing was to blame, the 
fact remains that Carnegie was set back four times in their first six plays and so frequently there­after that the contest was slowed down to a walk.All of Carnegie’s first period excursions into Xavier territory 
were nullified through these penal­ties. And once in this quarter when the Ohioans recovered a Tar­tan fumble deep in pay-off land the visitors were placed momen­tarily in danger but quickly bore down and took the ball away from Xaxier. Soon after the second stanza started Kavel broke loose on one of his typical sojourns and cruised 33 yards to the Xaxier 13. But here the Musketeer's fine de­fensive qualities came into play and Carnegie was forced to sur­render the ball on downs.On the very next play the whole Tartan line in general and Stewart in particular simply smothered 
Brannon’s attempted punt and Burzio tossed the kicker for a Bafety after the latter had recov­ered bis blocked boot. The Tar­tans seemed to come to life once the ice had been broken and after receiving Xavier's kick, promptly 
started for another score. Kavel made eight through the line and McCurdy replaced Dueger at quar­ter. The new field general tossed 
one incomplete pass and then whipped a beauty to Spisak who gathered the oval in on the 37, and dashed over for tlie first touch­down. Stewart's attempt was good and tho period ended soon after.Spisak InjuredThe second half brought both sorrow and joy to Carnegie fol­lowers, shortly after play was re- immed, little Bill Spisak who lias won his way to a varsity halfback berth in his first year, suffered a very bad dislocated elbow and may 
bo unable to play In the romalning gamos this season. Bill's absence was partially offset by Tom Coul­ter who replaced him and pro- c.eodod to carry on in great style. A pass, McCurdy to Stewart, had 
placed tho ball d'oop in Cincy ter­ritory and Coulter in his first try at collogo football, ripped off fivo yards and planted the pigskin on 
tho Xavier three. Sayles luggod I ho oval up to tho ono-ynrd lino and Coulter, on tho play, swept around end and scorod standing up. Tho try for point was wldo and with this gesture tho scoring for I ho day ended.
Rifle Team Ready 
To Begin Practice
All students interested in trying out for the. rifle I earns are re­quested to report to the rifle range today or tomorrow between 2:30 and 5:30. Sargeant Somner is in charge of the men’s teams and David H. Genter has charge of tlie women’s teams.The practice schedule, which lasts until the Christmas vacation, is as follows:Week of November 21 — Men’s Varsity, tliree-position matches; Men’s Freshman, prone match; Women’s match.Week of November 2S — Extra coaching for low scorers.Week of December 5—Men’s Var­sity, four-position matches: Men’s Freshman team, tliree-position matches; Women’s match.Week of December 12 — Men’s Varsity, four-position matches; 
Men’s Freshman team, tliree-posi^ tion matches; Women’s match.The intercollegiate matches will begin after the Christmas vacation. 
Last year the men’s varsity rifle team won the championship in tho telegraphic matches, defeated Pitt 
and West Virginia, and although it lost the match with Navy, it scored the highest, score of any opposing team on the Navy range.
Cats Favored Heavily As 
19th Battle For City 
Laurels Nears
As the current football season 
moves into the twilight stage there 
comes to the Western Pennsylva­
nia sport fans the high spot of the 
gridiron year—the Carnegie-Pitt 
classic. And with it comes one of 
the greatest opportunities for na­
tional prominence, local redemp­
tion and above ail, victory over her 
bitterest rival, ever to knock at 
Carnegie athletic portals. Not 
since the fall of ’2G when that im­
mortal little band of red-jerseyed 
crusaders stacked its courage and ability against the world and Notre Dame and raised Carnegie to the place she now holds in col­legiate football, has a Tartan team had the chance, in one fell swoop to not only regain all its lost prestige, but to add much more.
Pitt Heavy Favorite
Carnegie’s chances of beating Pitt, especially since the Panthers are headed toward a National Championship and simply cannot afford to lose, appear rather small. On a basis of comparative scores, using the Notre Dame game as an example, Pitt is 54 points better than the Plaid. Also, Pitt' is famed as a “November” team and, this, coupled with the fact that she lias more capable reserves, will certainly not boost Carnegie’s stock.
However, there remains lurking in the minds of Skibo students and alumni the conviction that the Tartans have much better material and are capable of much better teamplay than their previous games would indicate, and it will be only after a decisive Pitt vic­tory has been entered in the rec­ords that adherents of the Plaid will admit the wide difference now prevailing between the two teams.Plaid Slow In DevelopingThe present Carnegie aggrega­tion has been slow in rounding into shape and consequently has not giv.en any convincing perform­ances. And even should it reach its peak Saturday, time alone will tell if that "peak” is sufficient to 
cage the wily Panther. In the meanwhile Pitt and Duquesne by virtue of their respective victories over Notre Dame and W. & J., con­tinue to crow over the Tartans’ past record and future chances.And so, in view of the over­whelming odds which favor Pitt Saturday, one might well argue that the coming contest offers lit­tle opportunity to Carnegie. This would be quite true if it were just an ordinary game. But Pitt-Car- negie games are not ordinary, as past performances show. There­fore this “opportunity” idea is based on two great possibilities; first that Carnegie will come to its own .and play the type of game against Pitt that its followers think it can, and second, that the team will regain in some part at loast, tho courage and spirit which saturated last year’s combine and which will bo so necessary against the Panthers.Admitting that it is not good football to base hopes upon condi­tions so unstable as those above, nevertheless it is the attitude taken by students as far back as colloges have had football teams. Hope springs eternal in the breasts of undergraduates on the 
eve of "the game” and so it is now at Carnegie, with the Tartans and Pitt awaiting their impending fray.First Game In 1906
Grid relations with the Plaid’s arch-rival began back in 1906 and, of the nine games played up to 1917, Carnegie always had to be content with the losers’ share. However, the Tartan fighting spirit so prevalent in 1926 and last year also played an important role throughout those early days. In 1916 a determined Tartan team laced the greatest Pitt machine in history and the latter was grateful for the meager 14-6 victory which it finally dragged home. And the following year when Phil Marshal 
broke through the Pitt line and raced 98 yards for a Skibo score, Carnegie enthusiasm reached a new high. Pitt eventually won 17-7 but as a result of the riot which followed the game it was three years until grid relations be­tween the two schools could be safely resumed.Difficulties were patched up by 1923, Pop Warner’s last at Pitt, and it was in that season that Carnegie, under the leadership of tlie famous Jimmy Robertson, scored her first victory over tlie Panthers. Robertson’s beautiful 20-yard run in that game, and Dike Beede’s 60-yard sprint to a 6-0 vic­tory the following year are still the main topics of conversation at Carnegie home-coming affairs. 
Pitt won, 12-0, tlie nekt year but Donalioe, Yoder ana Co. were too much for the Gold Cats in 1926. Nineteen twenty-seven and ’29 are the real headaches for Tartan fol-
EDGEWORTH SMOKING TOBACCO
FULTON
THROUGH |||_ 
WEDNESDAY ==
First It was “Trader Horn”
Then “Tarzan, the Ape Man,” and Now 
Here’s Another With 1001 Thrills
„ WALTER HUSTON 
X-Ì5' CONRAD NAGEL 
LUPE VELEZ
The mysteries of the savage jungle. The maddening boom of savage drums heralding the approach of an ava­lanche of black killers—the tumultuous drama of a love tan­gle that only a terrible doom can solve. Hatred and revenge mount to a climax so spectacular that you'll fairly gasp at its unfolding.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor Street
Tech Harriers 
Defeated By 
West Virginia
Deyers Breaks Course 
Record In Contest 
With Tartans
The West Virginia Cross-Country team was pressed to record-break­
ing achievements in winning over the Tartans 20-35, last Saturday, at Morgantown. Devers of West Virginia, ran the distance in 28:01, breaking the course record by one second. The Tartains were some­what handicapped in point scoring 
by the illness of Captain Schell. Allan beat out a West Virginia man 
for third place, leading the Skibo runners in and Stankey was nexL The Mountaineers have about the toughest course in this section of the country.
The results of the meet were: First, Devers, W. Va.; second Zim­merman, W. Va.; third, Allan, Tech; fourth, Ashweith, W. Va.; fifth, Hill, W. Va.; sixth, Stankey, Tech; seventh, Netzer, Tech; eighth, Calborn, W. Va.; ninth, 
Burke, Tech; tenth, Wilson, Tech.Next Saturday the Tartans run against the strong Pitt team in the big meet of the year. The meet will be run over the regular six mile course in Schenley Park. Al­though Pitt is favored to win there 
is a good chance for an upset.
Marian McNary Will 
Edit Monthly Bulletin
Marian E. McNary ’33 has been 
appointed editor of the bulletin to 
be issued monthly by the Secre­
tarial Club of Margaret Morrison. 
Other staff members include: Ann 
R. Warden ’33, assistant editor; 
Dolly Allison ’33, faculty editor; 
Esther L. Petrick ’33. alumnae edi­
tor; and Loretta A. Conlin ’34, ju­nior editor.No definite plans have been made as yet. Work will begin on the first issue after a meeting of the staff tomorrow.
PREVIOUS RECORD WITH PITT
1907—Carnegie ... 0—Pitt.... . <v
1908—Carnegie ... 0—Pitt..., n
1910—Carnegie ... 0—Pitt.....3ft-
1914—Carnegie •.. 0—Pitt.... .1 +
1915—Carnegie ... 0—Pitt.... .2K-
1916—Carnegie ... 6—Pitt...14
1917—Carnegie ... 0—Pitt.... . «8-
1919—Carnegie ... 7—Pitt.....171923—Carnegie ... 7—Pitt..... '¿
1924—Carnegie ... 6—Pitt..... O'
1925—Carnegie ... 0—Pitt...14
1926—Carnegie ...14—Pitt.., .
1927—Carnegie ... 7—Pitt...., n
192S—Carnegie • •. 6—Pitt.... . 0
1929—Carnegie ...13—Pitt.... .34
1930—Carnegie • •. 6—Pitt.....34
1931—Carnegie ... 6—Pitt.... .14-
Stud tenDdirnco
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
No raw tobaccos in Luckies 
—that’s why they’re so mild
Warren Heller, Pitt's candidate for All-American, who will play his last game against the Plaid. Heller has been largely responsible for the Panthers' success this season.
lowers when thinking of Pitt games, although sandwiched in be­
tween these two defeats was a hard-fought 6-0 victory.Courage of Last Year’s Tartans 
RecalledIn 1930 Pitt ‘ upset the Tartans 7-6 and Skibo followers will be long in forgetting the spectacle of a favored Carnegie team going down to defeat at the hands of Pitt. Last year an overwhelm­ingly favorite Panther team was 
forced to the limit to extract a 14-6 victory over one of the most 
courageous groups of men ever to represent Carnegie, in any form of athletics. With little lo recom­mend it from a mechanical stand­point, that great eleven outfought 
Pitt from whistle to whistle and stunned the tolerant spectators at
one stage by driving 70 yards on straight football through what was supposed to be the greatest line in the country.
Since becoming a major school .in football circles, Carnegie has de­feated Pitt four times while losing five. Previous to that time Pitt held nine victories over the Plaid. Never in the history of Carnegie- Pitt encounters has a tie game been played.
FOR SALE
Log Log Duplex Slide Rule. 
G. A. Pillsbury, 623 Ivy street. 
Mayflower 7629.
Mortar Board, women's senior 
honorary, has arranged a series of programs for the coming meetings. 
Tomorrow’s gathering is tobe a union meeting of last year’s 
members and those of this year. The meeting will be one of the regular supper business assembly.Mortar Board has invited mem­bers of its society from the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh to a Solama Grundy party on December 16. 
The girls will play a number of games with each keeping her score. Those with the highest score will receive prizes.
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST
Specializing in Examining Eyes and 
Furnishing Glasses.
"Special Student Rates”
413 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
DURHAM, N. C.
Four terms of eleven weeks are given 
each year. These may be taken con­secutively (M. D. in three years) or three terms may be taken each year (M. D. in four years). The entrance requirements are intelligence, charac­ter and at leasb two years of college 
work, including the subjects specified for Grade A- Medical Schools. Cata­
logues and application forms mijy be obtained from the Dean.
buy the finest, the 
very finest tobaccos 
in all the world—but that 
does not explain why folks 
everywhere regard Lucky 
Strike as the mildest ciga­
rette. The fact is, we never 
overlook the truth that 
"Nature in the Raw is 
Seldom Mild”—so these 
fine tobaccos, after proper
aging and mellowing, are 
then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purify­
ing process, described by 
the words—"It’s toasted”. 
That’s why folks in every 
city, town and hamlet say 
that Luckies are such mild 
cigarettes.
"It’s toasted”
That package of mild Luckies
Mortar Board Plans 
Series Of Programs
Liberty Engraving Companu
»*••* a D. coto* MOCtM OVATTO

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 15. 10323
THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
the services of ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positorsOakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Well I see we are in for a home­
coming again this year. You don’t 
know who are coming home? 
Surely it isn’t possible that you 
hadn’t thought of the alumni and 
their various clubs and clans. 
Yes, they are coming home to their 
alma mater for the annual house 
warming, story swapping, sight seeing, get together. Sorta prodi­gal son movement, tor some of them I am sure, for if they are on a par with other organizations, 
they have members who have not been back to the campus since hector was a pup. Gee, it must be fine to be old enough to belong to 
such a group. Wonder what you do to join? Suppose I’ll have to wait until I get green with moss before I am eligible to attend one of those shindigs. Anyway, I hope they have a hot time in old Pitts­burgh this week. I’m with you to a man, alumni.Wonder why we can’t have a R. O. T. C. at night? Funny all the fine things take place at the day school. Just the other day 
they elected fair cadet officers to help the robust honest to goodness officers do their duty. Just take a look at the picture in last week’s Tartan, page four if you please. 
Spotted in the center is a picture worth framing. Who wouldn't obey a command from such a corps of “Atten-shun,” “eyes right,” “for- ward-go” officers. My -hat’s off to them, and I hope we get such a cadre at night.At last we have “bats in the Bellfry” at Carnegie. The birds are building their nests in our no­ble piles and this in itself is a sign of old age. I was really surprised to find that we had the birds flying around in our classes. They were right on time too—for they came out during roll call and returned to their nests at the termination of the session which was about 10:00 p. m. And, not to be outdone by the night students, they were the birds of the night variety, bats if you please, with their long web­shaped claws, scooping hither and yon. Better start a class in zoology, as we have the subjects right in our midst.I was amused the other evening 
to hear a heated discussion be­tween two night art students and a lal*ge group of students from the other two night colleges. All sorts 
of reasons were advanced why the little pieces of cardboard known as tickets should be given out. The art students seemed to be on the winning end of the discussion especially so because they hadn't a>1y tickets to give out much to the disappointment of the would-be art students from the other colleges. 
It seems that everybody wants to go to the dances and as Thistle Hall can accommodate only so many the only other thing to do would be to enlarge the dance floor. Make it sorta elastic so that it could be extended and contract­ed to accommodate the size of the parties in attendance. Now that’s 
an idea. Yes, I have a number of ideas, but I am going to hold them in reserve and spring them from time to time.Did you notice, due apologies to the other columnist, that I am sorta being panned from time to time by that contemporary. Now, this is a sign that you are either very good, or very bad. At all events you are being read and after all that is a good sign. No­body reads anything which is not printed .but to be read by the stu­dents in your group shows that you are worth something. I have even heard myself being quoted 
and just had to giggle (on the side) because it would be poor policy to uncover my disguise. All of which brings me to signing off with "So long until next week”—That was the Idle Night Student of Station PLAID who will return again next week at this same hour. The Tar­tan bids you all “Good Night.”
Art Impressions 
Of An Engineer
By stealing a march on one of the science departments to the ex­tent of doing three hours home­work in one (oh yeah!) one of the engineers managed to visit the art show at the Carnegie Institute. His reactions were somewhat as follows:
“Only had time to visit the sec­ond floor galleries. Pretty good show. The modernists had the first room to themselves, practical­ly. One painting of a wrestling match made the old joints ache. Such a tangle. The second room appealed more to a mere engineer. The third room was largely over­looked because I was wondering why the girl in the green dress looked so surprised. The artist was clever anyway. The fourth 
room holds some interest for the civils, there’s a picture of a cement mixer. The last group was made 
up of water colors, black and white work, art objects, and so forth. All very pleasing, but I am still trying to figure out numbers 192 and 202. Himmel! but they’re complicated. Funny too, if you want to admit you’re not among 
the cogniscents. Maybe I’ll get up to the third floor sometime and finish my impressions. See you again.”With these pointed (?) remarks, the man who was intensely busy doing nothing left the scribe in a deep, heavy fog.
A headline in the Virginian- ¦°ilot: "Shape of Shoulder Bladenotes State of Person’s Men- 
ty.” It sounds like the doom .he low-back evening dress.
Night Circulation
List Noiv Complete
With this issue of the Tartan, 
the circulation list of night stu­
dents has been completed as far 
as is possible from the cards re­
ceived. Night studènts who have paid the Night Student Council Activities’ fee are entitled to re­ceive the Tartan each week, and if we have your card on file you should be getting the college week­
ly-We have no way of knowing that the Tartan is not reaching its destination, and unless word is re­ceived to the contrary, it will be assumed that all night students 
who • have complied with the re­quirements mentioned above are getting the paper. Information 
should be sent to The Plaid, Room 12, Industries Building, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts­
burgh, Pa.
THE SURROUNDING 
WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
A week ago today the United 
States witnessed a political up­
heaval such as it has not seen in 
its history. Franklin D. Roose­
velt, the Democratic candidate, 
was swept into office by an un­
precedented vote. Herbert Hoover 
likewise received the greatest de­
feat ever experienced by any 
major candidate. Mr. Hoover con­ceded the election to Mr. Roose­velt during election night before 
the returns were complete.Roosevelt carried many other 
Democrats into office and defeated a number of Republican leaderss who were perennial members of Congress, such as Senator James E. Watson, George H. Moses, Reed Smoot and many others.This unanticipated Democratic sweep may have been due the present economic maladjustment, which has 'affected almost every home in America, or the extremely low prices of wheat, corn and other basic commodities or Pro­hibition, which the Democrats promised to repeal outright, or finally the general condition of 
unrest which prevailed before the election which led to the desire for change.
Italy did npt have an election. They have Mussolini instead, but its people are all excited anyhow. II Duce has been receiving much applause from his countrymen by proclaming in loud and well-chosen words that the United States should be lenient in the payment of the war debts. Speaking before 
more than half a million Italian citizens, a short while ago, he asked them if they were going to 
alloAV the ship of Debts and Repa* 
rations, which is now safely in the Harbor of Lousanne, to be pushed out into open sea again by the 
Americans. He received a resound­ing "No" for an answer. Musso­lini has come forward and stated frankly, so frankly that it really hurts, the opinion of other Euro­
pean countries. He does not even wish to bargain or barter, but lie does want his "No” to be clear. The present situation indicates that all Europe is trying to make the United States pay for her wars. Was it not enough that 
American blood was shed on Eu­ropean soil?After due consideration, the Can­adian, Government has issued a 
statement saying that the present high tariff rates are not a retalia­tion caused by the Smoot-Hawley tariff but a protection to the Brit­ish Empire. If they hurt the 
United States it is not intentional and is incidental. With all of the 
nations of the world trying to make up the United States Government’s 
mind about its policy on tariff and reparations, the job of the next President is not going to be so easy in regards to this debatable question of tariff policy.Slavery is not extinct! In Cen­
tral Asia the wild Tukoman raid­ers’ are still sweeping down on the Russo-Afghan frontier villages, 
capturing the inhabitants and car­rying them off to slave markets. The captured victims are then taken to Samarkand where they 
are sold during fairs, The women usually bring a higher, price than the men when placed on the auc­tion block. This slave trading is not illicit not even is it done in pri­vate. It is an institution in Turk­
estan as it once was in this count- try.
Thanksgiving 
DanceToOpen 
Social Season
Frolic Will Be Held In 
Gymnasium On Friday 
Eve. November 25
The Thanksgiving Week Recess 
Dance to be held November 25 in the men’s gymnasium marks the opening of the social season spon­sored by the Night Student Coun­cil. Coming as it does in the midst of the Thanksgiving festive season, this function will be a gala affair. Decorations and trimmings in keeping with the day will make 
the dance one that will be remem­bered for a long time.Plans are being formulated now for the affair which portend a suc­cessful party. Nothing is being left undone to make the frolic a big affair for the night students. Music, refreshments, decorations, all will be available for the dancers.This dance will furnish the first opportunity for the students of all three night colleges, Arts, Indus­tries, and Engineering, to become acquainted. Each of these schools 
hold functions at various times at which students of that particular college only attend. - The functions sponsored by the Night Student Council are the only affairs on the night campus which students from all the colleges attend.Tickets are now being distrib­uted to various salesmen and are available to all members of the student body, both night and day. The assessment will be one dollar a couple and at this cost, a large turnout of the students is expected. Get your tickets early and then tell the girl friend about the good time which awaits her on Friday evening, November 25. Don’t al­low anything to keep you away.
Advance Made In 
Home Building 
Holds Interest
There is at the present time a movement to interest home build­ers in a new type of building called for want of a better name— “pre-fabricated all steel houses." In a few cities some of these houses have been built and one in particular, built in Cleveland, has been described generally in popu­lar magazines and newspapers. The general construction consists of rolled steel welded together serving as framework and parti­
tions; celotex for insulation, and enameled shingles of various col­ors for outside ornamentation. The houses will include all modern conveniences including electric re­frigeration and heating plant. The construction is said to bo fire­proof, lightning proof, vermin proof and to have considerable permanency because of its peculiar type of construction.Considerable opposition has been encountered in the develop­ment of this type of home build­ing. One reaso‘11 advanced is the cost of construction, and while the present cost is more than the aver­age man can afford the possibili­ties are that with large production the cost can be materially reduced Chance For New Industry
The new type of construction of­fers plenty of opportunity to archi­tects and building and construc­tion engineers to develop their in­genuity so as to make the homes desired both from an architectural 
and structural standpoint. They can easily compete with the homes of frame, brick and stone. An added feature would be the possi­bility of a community of fireproof homes.
On the whole this new type of construction gives promise of a rise of a new industry; just the thing we need to absorb the unem­ployed masses. Such an industry 
would make possible communities of decently constructed homes with all modern conveniences to take the place of the old, dilapidated 
structures one sees in every. city of any size. It offers opportunity to students in the courses of study given at Carnegie and Pittsburgh should be in a position to take the lead with all the advantages a steel center commands. Pre-fab­ricated houses, in spite of opposi­tion, will come sooner or later and they will result in a community of better built homes.
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT the Thanksgiving Re­cess Dance will open the clutch and shuffle season for the Night Student Council.
THAT tickets for the Night Arts Dance were as scarce as hen’s teeth to the non-arts stu­dents.
THAT these same free tick­ets went like hot cakes; won­der if the dollar tickets will go the same way?
THAT a certain night "mud digger” had a smile from ear to ear last week. Heard that he crashed through with some swell marks in two recent com­petitions.THAT the Tartan gridiron warriors tangle with the Golden Cats this Saturday, and we are hoping for some upsets.THAT those mighty hunters have left for an extended trip. Wonder how they will make out. When the dope is availa­ble the secret wil be out, so look and listen, but don’t stop.THAT last week’s holiday from school gave some of us a chance to catch up with other kinds of night work that we had been neglecting.THAT there are many "I told you so” people around since last week’s political upheavel. There have been several up­sets recently hereabouts, so last Tuesday’s is just another page for the "I told you so” club book.THAT the Idle Night Student complains he can’t find key­holes as easy as his predeces­sor. He should follow me. I could show him a few choice ones.THAT a water fountain in the entrance lobby of Thistle Hall shooting sparkling grape 
juice, or cherry cider would fill a long felt need. Now don’t all rush up to the hydrant.THAT that’s that and I’ll be seenya.
Dorm. Rooms Available 
For Night S tu dents
Rooms In the Men’s Dormitories 
are available for night students. 
Some twenty night men now live 
in the dormitories. Any one in­
terested may secure information 
on Monday evenings at the office 
of the Dean of Men, Administra­tion Hall. The rate Is $3.00 a week for a single room and $2.30 for a double room. The rooms are fur­nished, and the Institute provides light, heat, bed linen, and service1. 
Three of the dormitories have out­door sleeping porches. All of them 
have shower baths 011 each floor.
According to the Institute of 
Family Relations, the college cam­pus is rapidly replacing the church societies as a popular mat­ing-ground. One of every six mar­riages end in divorce; one in seventy-five sown in collegecrash.—Arizona Wildcat.
ALUMN
Alumni Prepare For 
Annual Home-Coming
Continued From 2f7¦ g ,
o’clock, when all alumni will reg­ister in the new Thistle Hall. Please notice that the place for registration has been changed from the Trophy Room of the 
Gymnasium Building to Thistle Hall. Thistle Hall is reached by the walk leading up the hill at the back of the Gymnasium Building. It is a separate unit in itself and will prove most interesting to alumni who have not been 011 the campus in the last year. Alumni should not fail to register. At 12:45 the alumni luncheons will be held. Dr. Baker’s for the mem­bers of the class of 1912, their husbands and wives, will be held in the President’s Office, Adminis­tration Building, following the cus­tom which he has established for home-comings of entertaining the oldest reunion class.Luncheons for all other return­ing alumni will be served in the main dining room of the Carnegie Inn on Woodlawn avenue. A charge of 50 cents will be made. Space in the large dining room di­rectly off the main entrance to the Inn will be set aside for the alum­ni luncheon. Mrs. Bernice Kruger Thorpe is in charge of arrange­ments and will be assisted by Mrs. Gail Sellers Fettke, Miss Katherine Shuman, Mrs. Marion McCombs Herrmann, Miss Frances Keiser, Miss Nancy Sloan, Mrs. Vivian Boyd, and Miss Esther Wolge- muth.Installation Ceremony
The entire alumni group will as­semble at 2 o’clock in the main corridor of Administration Hall for the ceremony of installation of the class-reunion brass floor 
plates. The five plates presented this year will bring the pattern up to date, and hereafter only the most recently graduated class will add its class numeral to the dia­mond-shaped design. Members of the Glee Club will sing the "Alma Mater” and "Fight for the Glory of Carnegie.” Mortar Board and Dragons, senior class honoraries, have been invited. President Baker will accept the class memo­rials on behalf of the college. Mr. ,T. W. Dougherty, E. 11, Is the gen­eral chairman of reunions. His committee includes Mr. John F. Laboon, Mr. A. J. Kerin, MIsb Katherine Shuman, Mr. F. A. Kolb, and Miss Nancy Sloan, who will present the plates for the classos of 1912, 1917, 1922, 1927, and 1932, 
respectively.Dean Green To EntertainMiss Mary Watson Green, Dean of 'Women, will entertain the alumnae at. tea at 4 .o’clock in the Women’s Club Room in the Gym­nasium Building. She will bo as­sisted by members of Mortar Board.Members of the administration and faculty will be In their offices from 2 o’clock to '1:30 to greet llio returning alumni.The Department of Drama will
James Irvine 
Is Carnegie 
Day Speaker
Classes Suspended; All 
Members Of School 
Will Attend
(Continued From Page One) 
nogie Day Dr. Baker will present the fraternity, sorority, and dormi­tory scholarship cups, and the scholastic standings of these va­rious groups will be announced. Following (lie presentation of the cups, Josef L. Lentz, Jr., presi­dent of Tau Sigma Delta, national 
fine arts honorary; Wilfred R. Uffelman, president of Eta Kappa Nu, national electrical hon­orary, and William J. Burns, pres­ident of Tau Beta Pi, national en­gineering honorary, will call new men. The exercises will also in­clude a musical program which lias been arranged by the Depart­
ment of Music, and the singing of 
the Alma Mater by the students will conclude the exercises.All classes 011 this day will be suspended from 10:20 to 1:30. Students and faculty will assemble promptly at 10:45 and march in a body to the Carnegie Music Hall. Captain Ackerman will be chief marshal of the parade and the Kil­tie Band and R. O. T. C. will lead. Everyotio is urgently requested to take part in this procession. The place of assembly and order of march for the various groups will be as follows.Band and R. O. T. C.—Road, front of Industries Building.Executive Board—Director Jow- ett’s office.Student Council—First floor cor­ridor Industries Building, near main entrance.Faculty—First floor corridor, In­dustries Building, head at main entrance.
Scholarship Holders — Basement corridor, Industries Building, head at main entrance.Seniors—First floor corridor, In­dustries Building, west end, near­est Carnegie Library.Juniors—First floor corridor, In­dustries Building, oast end, nearest Administration Building.Sophomoros—Second floor corri­dor, Industries Building, wost end, nearest; Carnegie Library.Freshmen—Second floor corri­dor. Industries Building, wost ond, nearest Administration Hall.In case of rain the assembling will toko place as follows:Band and It. O. T. C.—First floor corridor, Administration Hall.Executive Hoard—Rear of stage, Carnogld Music Hall.Student Council—Roar of stago, Carnogio Music Hall.Faculty- Wost ond foyor, Cur- noglo Music uDiriicoooooooooooooooooooooooo
chargo l’or lodging in tlio mon’s 
dormltorlos propor.
The Hotel Schonloy Ima alao of- ferod thè apocini ratos of $3.50 por night for a single room and $5 for a (ioÙtile room.
I NEWS
entertain the alumni 011 Friday evoning at S:15 in the Little Thea­ter, College of Fine Arts. A spe­cial performance of Ibsen’s “Pil­
lars of Society” has been arranged by the Home-coming Committee. Tickets, two to each alumnus, may be 'obtained by sending a request 
together with a stamped, addressed envelope to the Alumni Office.The Carnegie-Pitt football game will start at 2 o’clock in the Pitt Stadium. The Alumni Office will have a block of tickets to sell to alumni. Tickets are $2.75 each. If tickets are to be sent by register­ed mail, 25 cents additional should be included in the check.The annual cabaret dinner-dance of the Home-coming program will bo held in the Ball Room of the Hotel Schenley at 7 o’clock, Sat­urday will be the climax of the events. This informal affair, which will cost $2 per per­son, is open to all Carnegie Alumni and their friends. Will Ryshnnek, A. ’32, and his KDIvA and NBC broadcasting orchestra have been engaged. Howard Bow­man is in charge of the entertain­ment and Miss Josephine Gibson M. ’24 is chairman of the dinner 
committee. Parties should be ar­ranged as soon as possible. Reser­vations will be made in the order they are received; table assign­ments will be given out at the door on Saturday evening.Orders for tickets for all Home­coming events should be sent to the ' Alumni Office, Gymnasium Building. Checks should be made payable to the Alumni Federation. A stamped, addressed envelope should be enclosed for tickets.The I-Iome-coming committee is as follows: Mr. Rody Patterson,General Chairman; Mrs. E. S. Thorpe, Mrs. W. H. ITarrold, Mr. J. W. Dougherty, Miss Josephine Gibson, Mrs. Clarence Overend, Mr. Robert W. Schmertz, and Mr. Howard Bowman.
CLASS REUNION OFFICERS
1912Engineering—John F. Laboon, 346 Bower Hill road, Pittsburgh. Industries—I-I. M. McCully, R. D. No. 2, Allison Park, Pa. Arts—P. H. Sterling, 230 Parkway drive, Mt. Lebanon, Pa. M. M.—Mrs. W. H. Harrold (Jane Caldwell), R. D. No. 2, Allison Park, Pa.
1917Engineering—Thomas E. Orr, 315 Parkway drive, Pittsburgh. Indus­tries—Robert Patterson, 5830 Alder street. Arts—C. F. Steen, 0(515 Wilkins avenue, Pittsburgh. M. M.—Mrs. C. R. Fettke (Call Sel­
lers), 1118 Wightman street, Pitts­burgh.
1922
Engineering — John Herrmann, 39(5 Midway, Mt. Lebanon, Pitts­burgh. Industries—Daniel F. Cas­sidy, 900 Parksido avenue, Dor- mont, Pittsburgh. Arts — Miss Katherine Shuman, 931 Sheridan avenue, Pittsburgh. M. M.—Mrs. Marion McCombs Herrmann, 390 Midway, Mt. Lobanon, Pittsburgh.
1927Engineering—Francis A. Kolb, 
570 Groondalo avenue, Edpowood,
Pa. Industries—Kenneth Craft,594S Baum boulevard, Pittsburgh. Arts—Mrs. M. W. Bastian (Doro­thy Boyle), 131 Edgewood avenue, Pittsburgh. M.. M.—Miss Francos Keiser, 5040 Hobart street, Pitts­burgh.
1932Engineering—Charles A. Berg- hnne, 015 Peebles street, Wilkins- burg, Pa. Industries—11. A. Gilli­land, 345 Ohio River boulevard, Bellevue, Pa. Arts—D. W. Seville, 7 N. Sprague avenue, Bellevue, Pa. M. M.—Miss Nancy Sloan, 132 S. Grandview avenue, Craftou, Pa.General Chairman Reunions—J. W. Dougherty, care of lleyl it Pat­terson, 1 Water street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SPECIAL CLASS PLANS
The following special plans have been made by chairmen of individ­ual class groups:President Baker’s Luncheon for the memebrs of the Class of 1912; Friday, November 18, at 12:45 in the President’s Office.A special meeting of the Class of 1912, Industries, will be held on Saturday morning, November 19, in the Y Club Room, at ten o'clock. Mr. Harry M. McCully, C. I. T., is chairman of the class.Engineering Class of 1917 will have a dinner at the Hotel Schen­ley, Friday evening at 0:00, Nov. IS. Thomas Orr, C. B. Schu­macher, and John Carothers com­mittee in charge.Industries 1917 will meet Satur­day morning at 11:30 in the Tro­phy Room, Gymnasium Building 
for class get-together; R. J. Pat­terson, chairman.Margaret Morrison Class of 1917 will have a breakfast at 12:00 011 Saturday, November 19, in the Pine Room of the new College Club 011 Craig street. Mrs. Mar­garet Wirtli Towl is in charge, 5007 Beacon street.Engineering Class of 1922 will hold a dinner at the Hotel Schen­ley, Friday evening at 0:00, Nov. IS. John Herrmann, in cliargo of arrangements.A tea for the members of the Class of 1922, both Engineering and Margaret Morrison groups, will be held at the home of Mr. and M,rs. John Herrmann, 390 Mid­way Drive, Mt. Lebanon, on Sun­day, November 20 from four to six.Margaret Morrison Class of 1922 will have a breakfast at the Hotel Schenley, Saturday morning, No­
vember 19. Mrs. John L. Herr­mann, 390 Midway Drive, Mt. Leb­anon and Miss I-I. Dorothy King in 
charge,Margaret Morrison Class of 1927 will hold a tea in the Women's Club Room, C. I. T., on Sunday, November 20, rrom three to I'lvo. Arrangements in charge of Miss Margaret Cluley, 034 Ninth stroot, Oakmont, Pa.
ROOMS PROVIDED FOR ALUMNI
The Hospltality House, formorly tlie inflrmary of thè mon’s dormi- torioa will 1)0 usod for lodging dur* Ing thè Home-Comlng week-end. Al. leust slx men can ho nccom- modntod. Tho ratea wlil ho $1 a night. HO conta a night is tlio
T
HE young man is saying the 
reason he smokes Chesterfields 
is because they satisfy.
The young lady agrees with him 
She says:"They click with me, too. 
I’m not what you’d call a heavy 
smoker. But even I can tell that 
they’re milder. Besides, I always
uyO talSdOuuO uySuTm waRgOd sWITH MILLIONS
have a kind of feeling that Chest­
erfields laste better.”
She’s right. Chesterfields are 
just as pure and wholesome as 
Nature and Science can make them. 
And we have upwards of 90 mil­
lions of dollars invested to ensure 
their mildness and better taste.
uyO talSdOuuO uySu uSmuOm EOuuO
© 1932. Liglj.it & Mycns Todacco 2TÍ
THEY’RE CLICKING

---------------------------------------------------

ATHE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 15. 1932
®fie (Cartiecjve «îTartati
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2S00 
After Office Honrs Call
Edltor-in-Chief ----------
EIrirNIy Manager____—Schenley 9580 „Schcnlcy 2389
Published weekly during the college year by undergraduates of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Entered In the Pittsburgh Post Office as second-clasa matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF_________________________________________BUSINESS MANAGER---------------------------------------------------------NEWS EDITOR_____________________________________________.—ELIZABETH PRELLER
ATHLETIC EDITOR—______i_____________!__________________—JOSEPH C. BRONSONPLAID EDITOR_____________________________________________EDWARD E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editors: Christine Lelghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Allison Exchange Editors: Marjorie DoughertyHarry Hower Ruth Phillips
Assignment Editor: Anthony Camvale
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Alice Henzi, Loretta Conlin.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cacchionc, Loretta Conlin, Alice Henzi, John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jaccjue Minnotte.
SPECIAL WRITERS:. Mary McCullough, Stanton Williams.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Kloos, Women’s Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes,
James Halferty. Jerry Hansen, Clifton Carr.
PLAID STAFF: James II. Sausonctti, News Editor; Frank CaBsel, A. N. Evens, H R. McGannon.ADVERTISING STAFF: James, E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; 
Mot-ton Garmise, William McKenna, Edgar Meyer, Jerome E. Kappel.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Finglass, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro­senberg, Albert Pryce-Jones, Abe Leipzig.
REPORTERS: Margaret Griffin, Veronica Kloos, Anna Ladd, Thelma Shelley, Ger- t'rudo Breakstone, Jayne Henderson, Peter Paulus, Harold Baer, Jannette Black, 
Marian MalakofT, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, Jane Miller, Roy Minet, Vir­
ginia Siegel, William Landsberg, Jane Livingston, DaviBon Irons.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
The Fortunate Should Help The Unfortunate
Have you ever walked clown to the Baltimore and Ohio 
railroad station at SmithfielcT aind -Water streets and observed 
the haggard men lying on the cold cobble stones like bundles of 
rags, uninterested in life, weak from lack of food and shelter, 
and with minds hopelessly dull from repeated obsession and 
despair? Have you ever wandered through the slums of Pitts­
burgh, say along Penn or Liberty avenues in the Strip District, 
or in Soho, and observed the. sunken eyes of bedraggled children 
staring at you\? Or have you ever s?at down in a big comfort­
able chair in a cozy living rbom and read about the suffering 
families who have been forced to move out into the cold with­
out food.because of their inability to pay rent? If you haven’t 
done any of these things, you may do them any day in the 
week. It would be difficult to picture yourself living under 
such deplorable conditions, would it not?
There are sojne seventy-five social agencies in the Pitts­
burgh district who for the past several years have been valiant­
ly giving food,'shelter, and clothing to needy people, as well as 
providing for free medical aid and the caring of neglected chil­
dren. It is unfortunate that our economic and social systems 
allow such conditions to exist. But they do exist, and we must 
turn to private organizations supported by private contribu­
tions and public funds to carry on relief work.
For nearly a week the Welfare Drive1 has been going on 
among the students and faculty to secure funds to support these 
organizations for the coming year. Is it not appropriate that 
the students should deprive themselves of an evening’s pleasure 
and give something to help feed, clothe, and shelter the unfor­
tunates? It would not be a very great sacrifice and it would do 
so much good.
Welcome, Grads:
Class reunions, luncheons. entertainments, receptions, 
smokers, dances, a Little Theater production, a football game, 
and other events will welcome the alumni next week-end during 
the annual home-coming ceremonies on the campus. The Ad­
ministration, Alumni Association, Student Council, and various 
social fraternities are planning many events. An lionest-to- 
goodncss bonfire and pep rally sponsored by Student Council 
next Friday evening, the first this year, offers a splendid oppor­
tunity for alumni and undergraduates to unite once again in 
spirited revelry.
The Campus Invasion Agreement:
TPho University of Pittsburgh's student council has taken a 
'firm stand on tlio recent invasion of the Carnegie campus by 
Pitt students. Last week the council passed a resolution up­
holding an agreement between the student councils of Pitt and 
Carnegie which pledges, in part, “that members oil their respec­
tive student bodies will not visit each other’s campus to inter­
fere with athletic signs, paint letters, create disturbances, or 
damage property.”
At a meeting of the Pitt council last week it was admitted 
that the Pitt students had violated the agreement in their en­
thusiasm over the Pitt victory in the Pitt-Notre Dame game 
and that future infractions would he severely dealt with by the 
Dean of Men and Dean of ‘Women. The willingness of the Pitt 
student governing group to co-operate with the Carnegie stu­
dent council is highly commendable. Such action will do much 
to further the existing friendly relations between the two in­
stitutions.
The agreement between the councils reads: “The Student 
Councils at Carnegie Institute of Technology and at University 
of Pittsburgh have mutually pledged that the members of their 
respective student bodies will not visit each other’s campus to 
interfere with athletic signs, paint letters, create disturbances, 
or damage property.
“The Councils, being opposed to these inter-campus tres­
passes, have gone further. They have agreed to pay for any 
damage done by their students, in this connection. Any stu­
dent, therefore, who commits an act of the above description, 
is not .only disloyal to the cause of good student government at 
his college, but is involving his Student. Council in a debt of 
honor.
“The Student Councils will recommend to their respective 
faculty discipline committees the expulsion of any student 
found guilty of violating the spirit or the letter of this mutual 
agreement.
"'^Nuw.that this announcement has been made, it is believed 
that no further action will be necessary.”
The Carnegie council should feel confident that the stu­
dents will co-operate with them in maintaining this agreement.
Scholarships 
Are Offered 
To Students
Opportunity Presented 
By Newly Organized 
School In N. H.
The Overseas Educational Insti­
tute of Hanover, New Hampshire, 
will grant twenty-five full scholar­
ships to students for study in 
France, Germany, and Switzer­
land.
A new development in modern 
educational organization is reveal­
ed in the program of the Institute, 
a school which, in addition to pre­
paring for junior college and col­lege entrance requirements, pre­sents the opportunity of travel and association with European univer­sities and the cultural adyantages to be derived therefrom.
The Institute provides its entire 3rear’s program of travel and. study abroad at a cost approximatihg an average year at a preparatory school or college, and through the medium of an experienced faculty, offers a high standard of scholar­ship. The majority of the time abroad is spent between the study centers of Grenoble, France, and Bonn, Germany, and the re­mainder of the time in excursion and residence in other important centers.A complete social program is sponsored by the Institute, as well as a recreational requirement; In addition, Grenoble, in the French Alps, is near some of the great winter sports resorts of Europe.Further information pertaining to the Institute may be procured at the personnel bureau of this school. Requests for information pertaining to the scholarships should be addressed to the Schol­arship Department, Overseas Edu­cational Instituto, Hanover, N. H.
Needed R.O.T.C. 
Equipment Sent
The juniors in Carnegie unit of the R. O. T. C. have received their new uniforms while the seniors have received new sabres. The uniforms are the same as those of 
last year except that the slacks are light and! there are new insig­nia on the lapels. Instead of the initials U. S. on the upper lapel, 
C. I. T. lias been substituted to show that the unit is a branch of the regular army. The lower lapel 
carries either the engineering 
castle or the signal corps flags.The R. O. T. C. will participate in the Carnegie Day celebration 
next Tuesday. They will assemble 
at 10:30 and will march to the 
Music Hall in a body.Scabbard a,nd Blade, national military honorary, called the follow­
ing men at the Military Ball last Thursday evening: LieutenantAlbert H. Burtman, John O. Lo- range, Allan B. Rockford, Alfred! 
J. Eichenlaub, Lawrence E. Demp­sey, Guthrie M. Mitchell, Fred­erick IT. Meng, and Daniel E. Le- hane, Jr.
Art School Sororities 
Bid Forty-Five Girls
Continued From Pape 1
Lambda will meet their pledges.During the probationary period preceding their formal acceptance pledges are required to help mem­bers of the sororities they intend to join whenever they are asked. Tn some of the groups there is a pledge dance given and in Gamma Gamma Gamma the pledges have charge of supper meetings.Sorority pledges in Beta Tau Lambda are individually supervis­ed in their scholastic work by a sorority member until the semes­ter ends. At this time if the scholastic standing of pledges is rknowledged by the Dean as con­forming with the Institute Eligi­bility Rules they will be initiated into their respective sororities.
SORORITY PLEDGES
What Next?
It is interesting to learn that now that beer and light wines 
will soon be legalized, one of the correspondents for the Scripps 
IToAvard newspaper chain is advocating the importation of 
wiiies as payment for war debts. What has happened to all the 
ballyhoo about beer bringing back prosperity through the con­
sumption of the farmer’s grain and by putting men to work in 
the breweries or the talk about the tax revenue to balance the 
budget? It goes to show that every man may have his own 
theory.
Arthur Brisbane, Hearst columnist, comments: “It is pa­
thetic that the richest nation-in the world should rely for the 
solution of its money problem on a glass of beer and the amount 
that the drinker can be taxed.
“The wse man who knows what it is to swim in rough 
water, and intends to succeed in spite of depression •will let 
somebody else have the beer.
“Beer anakes-you sleepy, contented with yourself and the 
•world. It is an excellent thing ior the hard-working laborer, a 
bad thing for the man who wants to use his brain. Nothing is 
more, dangerous-than.a state of- contentment.”
Beta Tau Lambda
Peatrice Archer Eleanor Coon 
Helen Jane Douthitt 
Evelyn Lyle Drabelle McDonald.Alice Philpot 
Dorothy Scheckhaus Betty Schrack 
Alice ThomasBeta Pi
Rosemary CarverMildred. CoxLouise Evans
Jane FranceyMary HubleyMarion Jones
Eugenia KehrEvelyn Leighou
Joan MacgowanMary Lou Mehler
Margaret Ann Nindringhaus
Marjorie Jane PhillipsPeggy Louise ReedJoan Speller
Frances WrightAlpha Kappa Psi 
Jane Beck Cornelia Brierly Sarabel Browarsky Mary Cheffey Margaret Clark 
Jane Finely 
Caroline Fuller lone Gaul Madeline Lewis 
Sara Scott Betty Thompson 
Louise Wingold 
Gamma Gamma Gamma 
Hazel Campbell Catherine Cobb Loretta Curry 
Kathleen Holden Mary Ann Miller Dorothy Orwig Helen Robinson Rose Serrac Janet Spaugh
Policemen of the future will be 
intellectual chaps. The Los An­geles Junior College has instituted 
a new course for the purpose of training men and women for fed­eral, state, and county detective positions. With the increase in crime and the advent of the shrewder type of criminal, there is an evident need for college-train­
ed men to meet the situation.
IT’S ALL OVER NOW—
Sorority rushing season came to an end with the usual 4:30 demonstration in the lower corri­dor of the Arts building last Wednesday. Manya tear of joy was shed and many a sisterly hug was exchanged. Everyone was quite pleased with the re­sults and the building rock­ed with girlish glee. The 
overlapping of 
bids was so slight this year that each sorority got p r a c t ically everyone they wanted and now all that remains is pledgeship.
HERE AND THERE—
It has been rumored about the campus' that Ira Kuhn has recently acquired an interest in U. S. Steel, preferred no doubt.
That little fur hat that Becky Webb wore to the Military Ball (if you didn’t see it you read about it in the paper) was the result of a hair cut that failed to please.
A lot of us go moaning around about having our names spelled wrong in the paper but Wil­fred Uffelman'got the worst deal of the year when his name came out as Winifred.
The attendance at the tea dances continues to be swelled by the local high school lassies.
The Night Arts dance attracted a number of day students including Chuck Pepine,- Paul Phenegar, Fred Ford, and Charles Applegate.
The latest suggestion for reducing activities expenses is to provide each vest-heavy celeb with a skeleton key.
Bob Eberle continues to be chief fraternity critic in Mr. Carrol’s French class, and would you believe it, he refers the little girls to teach­er for verification.
Ex-Kernal Will Holloway had a taste of actual fire (on the front) last week.
Will apprehended a burglar in Jack Horning's house Wednesday evening who instructed our dashing Will (at the point of a gun) to remain rigid and everything would be lulu. The looting gentleman, stepping to the phone to do a bit of clipping, tripped, and fell, accidentally discharg­ing his gat. The bullet lodged in the floor in the near vicinity of Will’s canal boats. We don’t know what Will did, but we dp know the thug
scrammed pronto. Yes, girls, that’s why he was , so calm at the Military Ball. It’s a tough life these army men lead.
THEY TELL US—
The Henderson Softies are getting up a peti­tion for sleeping porch shutters this winter . . . Chester lias dubbed Maria (Black Maria) Noir “Texas Guinan” . . ., There are two Scotchmen here who, though living a mere stone's flip apart, took almost two months to say hello (Glasgow vs. Dundee) . . . And their names are Hunt and Hunter! . . . Henry Carr, who sniffs and snorts in the ring explains the reason . . . Hilarious 
Duke supporters ran off with the Thistle Hall sign last week.
*****
THE MILITARY BALL—
Always the most colorful dance of the year, the Military Ball of this season went its prede­cessors one better. Thistle Hall, decorated for the first time since its opening, was barely recog­nizable under the maze of flags that occupied every nook and cranny. Every available uniform was called into play, officers’ cadet officers, hum­ble privates, the boys from Pitt, and a sprinkling of mere civilians gave the affair a truly military air.
The climax of the evening’s activities came when the newly chosen honorary officers march­ed in with the corresponding cadet officers under an arch of shining sabers. Colonel McClean pre­sented the gals with their commissions. Then came the Scabbard and Blade call by ex-Colonel Holloway, now Lieutenant.
Bill Councill was observed in his customary roll of Adjutant to the Commander assisting, of course, Col­onel Ruth Nye. The re- m a i n d e r of 
the regiment 
lined up as follows: Major Becky Linn and Captain ' “Two Bricks”Robinson, Ma­
jor Gloria Kloos and civilian Jimmy Stahl, Cap­tain “Kitty Lou” Jessop and Captain “Larry” Dickson, Captain Ann Warden and civilian Harry Madsen, Captain Kay Winslow and ex-Captain Sumner Dana, Captain Marion McNary and civi-i lian Jimmy Traa, Captain Jean Douglas and Ser­geant Cliff Carr, and Captain Evelyn Gamble with civilian Logan Webster.Until next year—
DRAMA REVIEW
BY WARD WARREN
We put on our best suit—the dark blue one you liked so much— and went to the Little Theater last Friday to see Ibsen’s “Pillars of Society.”
In imitation of Scribe’s- well- made play, the plot is quite intri­cate and melodramatic: and with few exceptions each character is intimately concerned in its devel­opment.
The direction of the play is to be commended for a natural and, in most cases, convincing perform­ance. Considered as a whole, we thought that “Pillars” was very well done. There was a tone of sincerity to the entire production that made it an enjoyable even­
ing’s entertainment. With an eye toward presenting some reactions gotten from North of the curtain line, we’d like to speak of the in­dividual performances.
Thomas Gorman, as Karsten Berniclc, gave us a rather clear idea of the conniving ship builder who is freed from this unhappy state through the combined force of a fear generated by the narrow­ly averted loss of his son, and the spiritual proddings of his former 
fiancee. Suzanne Bennett, playing Mrs. Berniclc, provided the neces­sary colorless background designed 
to contrast with the egotistical im­portance of her husband. In a footnote we might add that' Miss Bennett’s performance seemed a trifle forced- at times.We liked Vernon Crane in his blue sailor suit with the red stars on its collar. He seemed quite 
vivaciously young; yet we believe that lie hurt his performance in the last act when lie is discovered expectantly posed on his toes when 
the curtains which hid him are drawn open. His situation might have seemed more plausible, after the delay in opening the curtains, if he had been found on his knees in the last hasty stages of gather­ing his belongings. Mary Hamil­ton’s constrained sadness made us afraid we’d be caught with tears in our eyes, especially after we
saw some members of the audi­ence dabbing tiny handkerchiefs to their eyes. Hilmar Tonnesen was a perfect picture of a pathetic loafer who seems almost to believe his own excuses; yet he appeared to be entirely on the outside of Robert Gill as he “ughed” through ¿11 four acts.
. Helen Sisenwain gave a smooth­ly dynamic portrayal of Lona I-Ies- sel, the free-spirited prairie breeze that returns from America- to purge Bernick’s soul. When Miss Sisenwain on occasion uses her upper register, the pitch of lier voice really goes up, thereby weak­ening lier characterization and somewhat taxing lier auditors.
It’s a shame that George Mc- Calmon spoiled an otherwise ex­cellent piece of work by the way in which lie stalked onto and off the stage like a real showboat vil­lain, chin first, with arms and legs flying about like shuttles. Mary Dingfelder, as Dina Dorf, soon won our affection and sympathy. William Beal struggled stubbornly with a part that could have been dull with no effort at all.
Donald Gallagher, John Sollers, and William Bales, three of the pillars who helped Berniclc drain the community, managed to por­tray distinct individuals. Irene Cowan, Dorothy Neumann, and Elizabeth Levinger provided one of the most amusing scenes in the play as the gossipping “town criers.” Edward Palkot, as Ber­nick’s confidential clerk, almost seemed to have a knife in his hand when with glowering brows he dis­
closed his suspicions about Anne’s duplicity. We were glad to see Roy Minet playing out in the open— without a beard.The mob scene in the last act was very disappointing. Those in it, presumably freshmen, were un­
usually inarticulate and apparent­ly unaware of how important each individual is in such a scene. We certainly appreciated the pre-cur­tain announcement of the names 
of the students who were to play.
INTERCOLLEGIATE
CLIPS
The Communist youth prefers 
engineering to any other profes­
sion. and so Soviet Russia is faced with the serious shortage of phy­sicians, scientists, teachers, and authors.
Syracuse University has found 
the freshman interest-house pro­gram a great success. Freshmen interested in literature, science, or philosophy are housed together in 
individual houses. Instructors or graduate students act as leaders and these groups become self-gov­erning, organized units. The plan 
was installed last year—and fewer freshmen failed than ever before.“The Bison,” undergraduate pub­lication of the University of Buf­falo, was severely criticized a year ago when several jokes print­ed in the magazine' received na­tion-wide publicity over a radio network. The students’ activities committee has banned the maga­zine on grounds of unfavorable publicity.Women of Northwestern Univer­sity founded a Widow’s Union, and some of the men found the idea so appealing (or appalling) that they formed a Widowers’ Associa­tion. The organizations are en­tirely separate, and consist of lieart-siclc souls with lovers out of town. The women wear yellow ribbons around their necks to sig­nify their lack of interest in local men, while the men wear a piece of black ribbon pinned to their vests with a safety pin to indicate their indifference to campus belles.
Dr. Iassilo Schultheiss of Ber­lin, Germany, has mastered 140
Y. M. H. A. Discussion 
Series Begins Friday
The Y. M. and W. H. A. will hold 
the first of a series of student dis- 
cussion-luncheons Friday at 12:30 
in the “Y” dining room. Rabbi 
Goodman A. Rose will be the speak­
er. The address will be the first of 
a series of addresses on “The Mod­ern Attitude Toward Religion.” At the completion of the series, men 
in various fields will have voiced their opinion on this subject.
All students are invited to attend 
the discussion-luncheons which are to be held weekly. An invitation is 
also extended to members of the faculty to lead the discussions.
languages, which is believed to be all the languages there are in the world. He believes a nation’s lan­guage is the most reliable gauge of its civilization.Susquehanna University lias a tiddly-winks team. The live posi­tions are right tiddle, left tiddle, center, right wink, and left wink. What’s the password? Swordfish.
The University of Kansas pub­lishes. a list of all professors who keep their classes after the bell has rung.Faced with the necessity of earn­ing their own room and board, two hundred of the men students at the University of Wisconsin have invaded what for centuries has been thought of as woman’s own field. Claiming adequate experi­ence in housework, these men have applied to the Employment Bureau at the University for help in obtaining work in city homes.
Society Presents 
Feature Artists
The Pittsburgh Symphony Socie: 
ty will present five concerts by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, in 
this, its seventh season. Antonio 
Modarelli will direct. Featured ar­
tists are also to be presented.Membership in this society is 
open now. The classes are as fol­lows.
1. Contributing—Dues are $100or more.
. Active—Dues are $35.00 or more.
3. Associate—Class A—Dues are 
•$20.00.
4. Associate—Class B—Dues are $12.50.
5. Associate—Class C—Dues are $7.50.
6. Stud'ent—Dues are $5.00.Student memberships are limitedto one hundred; any one desiring a student membership may get the necessary identification card from Miss Lawton of the Department of 
Music. Each member is allotted two tickets for each concert. Ap­
plications are to be addressed' to The Pittsburgh Symphony Society, 
626 Farmers Bank Building, Pitts­burgh.
The list of concerts is as fol­lows :
1. November 20, 1932, featuring Coe Glade, leading contralto of Chicago Civic Opera.
2. Date in January to be an­nounced.
3. February 19, 1933, featuring 
Georges Enesco, violinist, compos­er, conductor.
4. March 19, 1933. featuringWalter Gieseking, noted pianist.
5. Date in April.to be announc­ed.
Charity Drive Begins 
After Week’s Delay
Continued From Page 1 ' 
den project in the ' spring, and the 
Homeless Men’s Bureau. 34.7 per cent for budgets of fifteen family agencies in Allegheny County. 14 
per cent to eleven health agencies. 11.2 per cent to twelve organiza­tions for homeless, dependent, and neglected children. 16 per cent to eighteen agencies providing spare­
time programs for the training of delinquent boys and girls. 3.5 per cent to three organizations co­
ordinating the services of individ­ual agencies and supervising the social welfare program. 3.5 per cent to the Welfare Fund for cam­paign and administration costs and 5 per cent to a contingent fund for the purpose of covering the possi­ble shrinkage in collection of pledges.
They promise to clean house, wash dishes, act as butlers, gardeners, 
chauffeurs, and even as nursemaids to children.
NoC«
A Sure 
Foundation
One of the anient inundation* 
on which to build your finan­
cial independence in a savin«« 
account. Systematic saving 
hoi:iin while you are in college 
will pave the way for \ suc­
cessful future. Our Savin«* 
Account« pay liberal interest 
compounded semi-annually.
Mellon National Bank
Investigations 
Conducted By 
Chem. Seniors
Results Will Be Used 
To Check Accuracy 
Of Theories
Four Senior Chemistry Science 
students are doing problem inves­
tigation under the supervision of 
Dr. J. C. Warner and Dr. Thomas 
R. Alexander of the Chemistry De­
partment.
James V. Sheridan is studying the effect of the dielectric constant 
of the solvent upon the rate of the conversion of ammonium cyauate 
into urea. He hopes to obtain re­sults which will help decide the exact mechanism of this reaction.Jjunes T. Kingsbury is investi­gating the rate of the reaction be­tween ethyl iodide and sodium 
thiosulpliate in solvents of vary­ing dielectric constants. The re­sults obtained’ by Mr. Sheridan and 
Mr. Kingsbury will be used to test 
modern theories of reaction rates in solutions.Arthur P. Demarco is conducting experiments on the rate of muta- rotation of malic acid' and sodium 
malate. His findings will be used to test the validity of the present theories of acid and base catalysis and should be of great use iu de­veloping a more satisfactory the­ory of muta-rotation.
Arthur B. Kemper is doing re­
search work on the sulphates of tri and tetra-valent titanium ions 
in solution. Little information is available on the behavior of the 
sulphates of titanium and hopes by his work to add something about its behavior and, if possible, 
its molecular structure to the an­nals of science.
Cosmopolitan Club To 
Meet Friday Evening
A meeting of the Cosmopolitan 
Club, at which newly elected of­ficers will preside, will be held in the Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall Friday evening at 8 o’clock. Prof. L. R. Guild, head of the De­partment of Commercial Engineer­ing, will speak.
The Cosmopolitan Club is com­
posed of foreign students attend­ing Carnegie. Meetings are held on Fridays twice a month., At al­ternate meetings, prominent speak­ers and open discussion are fea­tured.
At the last meeting on Saturday, November 5, the following officers were elected: Jack S. Paul ’33,president; Rapheal Atlas, vice president; Bernhard E. Everson, '34, treasurer; and Anne R. War­den ’33, secretary. Anne Warden was appointed chairman of the Foreign Policy committee by Stu- 
dent Council.
English fl ays
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER
An inimitable columnist of con­
temporary journalistic fame pre­
sents some of the poetic effects of 
faulty grammar:
Gals who say, “I would have went,” . 
Horrify the Princeton, gent.
Gals who Say, “With he and I,” 
Annihilate thp AmlieVst guy.
Gals who say, “I would have did,” 
Petrify the Harvard kid.
In the same lofty vein may we ask what would “gals” who say, “If I’d of luiowed you could * of went. I’d of saw that you got. to git to go.” do to the Carnegie youth? No doubt they would “slay” him. There is a possibility that his tremendous interest 'in the sciences or the applied arts would cause him to let pass unno­ticed such corrupting sirens. This illiterate speech, however, should command some notice, for any lan­guage construction like it is not in any level of good usage—a statement not entirely obvious if we may judge from the “high fre­quency” of “have did,” “had ought,” “couldn’t help but,” “can’t hardly,” and the like, in our im­mediate vicinity.
What of this faulty usage in speech and writing? It can hard­ly be attributed to ignorance or il­
literacy. Educated people can dif­ferentiate between the correct and incorrect. Their use of the incor­rect, therefore, must be due to our absence of good habits of language composition. The first step in ac­quiring power in expression is to learn correctness, and the second is to make that correct use habit­ual.It is also true that errors in ex­pression may be intentional, may be made in an effort' to escape conventional usage, because oT its possible monotony or triteness. The error is iiot made to “supply any deficiency of the language,” but rather to be individual, showy, ultra-expressive. Some newspa­per coinages are of this . kind— “combii/e,” “burgle,” “suspicion- ed.” Furthermore, paradoxically enough, the purpose of the writer 
or speaker Is not to express an Idea but to obscure it, attention thereby being directed to the phrasing. College undergraduates, for example, use the phrase “calce eater” with more regard for its possible striking connotations, than for its meaning, however limited in use that may be. All of this intentional violating of aomo standard of propriety in the ló'od usage of language” is slang.
With the craze or night football becoming more evident every day, another innovation has been de­vised, night golf. The Inglosiile Golf Course near San Francidco has been illuminated with flood­lights so that golf enthusiasts can play far into the .night. It Is 
doubtful It' the craze will over roach the extreme of day golf, but, nevertheless, the golf widow1; Mill has a now ovil to contend wltln
MUCab retDi
farmers began to growWhite 
BurleyTohacco. A few casks 
were taken to the St. Louis 
Fair in 1867 and sold for 
58c a pound.
White Burley Tobacco is 
used to make Granger. It 
is the best pipe tobaeco that 
grows.
You will notice the dif­
ference as soon as you light 
up your pipe of Granger. It 
burns slower, smokes cooler 
and never gums a pipe.
YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODI»
