Football Team 
Wins 
Second— 
See Page 8
VOL. 49—No, 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., OCT. 18, 1955
CIT On Edge Of Big Yankee Weekend
Homecoming Displays 
Provide Competition
By Gene Anderson
For the past several weeks, Tech fraternity men' have been busy 
with the construction of homecoming displays. This feverish actvi- 
ty takes precedence over every other activity. Books, sleeping, eat­
ing, and even social events are put aside and temporarily forgotten
in order to devote spare time to#---------——-—----------------------------—
make each display the best on n w c* n •tier. H. j. bullivan 
To Talk At Second 
Tuesday Assembly
campus. In the past years, the 
quality of the displays has proved 
that the time has been well spent.
Gompetition is keen, but there 
is little of the ill feelings and 
jealousy that is prevalent on so 
many college Campuses. In fact, 
the displays are so alike in quality 
and appropriateness that even the 
fíne points of construction must 
be considered in picking a winner.
This year’s well-publicized 
theme is “Yankee Yarns.” In other 
words, the displays must be cerr- 
tered around some national or lo­
cal American legend, either fact 
or fancy. Each display must also 
show connection with Tech’s op­
ponent, Temple.
It is amazing to see how so 
many different ideas can be de­
veloped from a .single subject. As 
usual, there will be no duplicate 
displays since each fraternity has 
chosen a unique topic. The in­
dividual themes are as follows:
Alpha Tau Omega—This year’s 
them for the ATO’s is Maik 
Twain’s Tom Sawyer. Tom will 
be whitewashing a fence, thus 
suggesting the phrase, “White­
wash Temple!” The scene will be 
set into the pages of the book 
creating a three-dimensional ef­
fect. If the ATO’s win this year, 
it will mark the third consecutive 
triumph for them.
Beta Sigma Rlio—For their en­
try in the competition, the Beta 
Sig’s have chosen Pecos Bill. If 
you remember, Pecos Bill had a 
hobby of roping and taming cy­
clones. On Friday night, Bill, on 
his famous horse, Widowmaker, 
will try to tame Temple. Special 
lighting effects will add to the dis­
play.
Beta Theta Pi—“I have not yet 
begun to fight!”, will be the Beta’s 
cry as John Paul Jones sinks the 
S. S. Temple. The display, based 
on America’s famous naval hero, 
will depict John Paul touching off 
the cannon that means destruction 
for the Temple ship manned by 
the Temple Owl. Colored lighting 
will be used for the necessary il­
lumination.
Delta Tau Delta — Blackbeard 
and his pirate ship will dominate 
the Delt lawn this year as a 
huge 30 foot structure will be the 
main point of their display. The 
Delts are having trouble finding 
volunteers to scale the frame, so, 
if anyone is willing, his services 
will be appreciated. The frame­
work will serve a double purpose. 
Not only is it the basis of the 
Homecoming display; it is also the 
foundation for the Delts’ new li­
brary addition.
Delta Upsilon—People traveling 
on Forbes Street this week-end 
may be startled to see witches 
brought to life. The DU’s are bas­
ing their display on the Salem 
Witchcraft Trials. Two American 
colonists will be catching owls and 
carrying them to a witch who will 
tar and feather them in a large 
cauldron. In the background, eleven 
[Continued on page 12J
The second program in this 
year’s religious assembly series 
will take place next Tuesday, Oc­
tober 25, at 11:30 a.m. in the Fine 
Arts Theater. The Reverend Henry 
J. Sullivan of St. Leo’s Roman 
Catholic Church, Pittsburgh, will 
talk on “The New Psychology.” 
Reverend Sullivan received his 
Bachelor of Arts and Master of 
Arts Degrees from Boston Col­
lege, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, 
and the degree of Doctor of Philos­
ophy from Georgetown University 
in Washington, D. C. He was 
awarded the degree of Bachelor of 
Sacred Theology by the Pontifical
Rev. Henry J. Sullivan
Second Assembly Speaker
Atheneum of the Urban College in 
Rome, Italy.
During World War II he served 
as a United States Army and Vet­
erans Administration chaplain. In 
1950 and 1951 he did research 
work in the New Psychology here 
at Carnegie Tech. As a parish 
priest of the diocese of Pittsburgh 
he was appointed, in 1952, instruc­
tor of psychology at the Institute 
of Adult Education.
This assembly program has been 
arranged by Newman Club for the 
Carnegie Tech community and is 
sponsored by the Committee on 
Religious Activities. All students 
and faculty are invited to attend 
all assemblies, regardless of 
whether or not the speaker is of 
one’s own particular faith.
Wandering Greeks
The Carnegie Tech Panhel- 
lenic Association would like 
the names of all transfers who 
are members of national soror­
ities without chapters on 
Tech’s campus. Please leave 
names in the Dean of Women’s 
office, or call Barbara Flor- 
schutz at MAjflower 1-7327.
T ickets
Tickets for the semi-formal 
Homecoming dance qn Octo­
ber 22 will be sold every day 
this week from 11:30 to 1:30 
p.m. in Skibo by members of 
Mortar Board and ODK. The 
price is $2.75 per couple.
Varsity Varieties 
Depicts 6The Life’ 
In All Americana
By Susie Stryker
Americana from the New Eng­
land of the Salem Witchcraft to 
Florida’s Fountain of Youth will 
be depicted with imaginative color 
and talent at the 1955 Varsity 
Varieties. This year’s version of 
the sororities’ annual skits will 
take place on Friday afternoon at 
3:00 p.m. in the Morewood Gar­
dens Rec Room.
“Bubble, Bubble, Toil and 
Trouble’” or “The Terrible Trial 
of Fortitude Pfeffergnuss,” pre­
sented by Kappa Kappa Gamma 
will depict the trial of a 17th 
century iitassachusetts maiden who 
is' accused of witchcraft on a 
variety of evidences, and is 
brought to trial. Don’t worry about 
her—she gets acquitted.
Also out , of rural America is 
Delta Delta Delta’s Comer Gro­
cery Store, under the title “Sud- 
sational” which shows the various 
soaps and detergents coming to 
life after the store is closed for 
the night, and there is even a 
“Dirty” villain. Following our 
geographical tour toward the 
south, Varsity Varieties stops at 
Pittsburgh with Alpha Epsilon 
Phi’s “King of the Spangled Wild­
erness,” which will show the de­
velopment of Pittsburgh and espe- 
, [Continued ®n page 12}
Coronation to Initiate 
Homecoming of 1955
Carnegie Tech will welcome back to the campus over 1,000 alumni 
when the 1955 Homecoming weekend opens this Friday at 12:30 p.m. 
The holiday weekend, which will mark Tech’s fifty-fifth anniver­
sary, is sponsored by Omicron Delta Kappa and Mortar Board, senior
?honoraries on campus. Bob Lind­
say, Barbara Kerr, and Mary Tin-
Rege Cordie
Featured At Pep Rally
Friday Niglit Rally 
Brings Rege Cordie
This year’s Homecoming pro­
gram will feature something new 
in Pep Rallies—Rege Cordie, 
Pittsburgh’s well-known - disc 
jockey.
Recently, Cordie moved his 
popular morning program, “Cordie 
and Company”, from WWSW to 
KDKA. Cordie uses every techni­
cal device and gimmick that is 
available in a radio studio to 
create a world of fantasy peopled 
by a changing set of imaginary 
[Coritintted on page 121
Dr. Wdrd To Be First Speaker 
At CommunityiForum Series
The first program in the new Tech Community Forum series will 
be presented tonight in PH 100 from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m. Dr. Paul L. 
Ward of the CIT history department will talk on the Chinese Com­
munistic government, and an open discussion will follow. All mem­
bers of the Tech community are#--------——-----------------------------------
invited.
Some of the opinions which can 
be easily gleaned from various 
spokesmen concerning the political 
powers in China today: “They are 
merely agrarian reformers per­
forming a much needed task 
in the only way possible among 
the poverty-stricken, strife-torn 
people of the rice paddies.
They are the instruments of a 
puppet government, conceived in 
bloody revolution and spawned by 
an international fifth column of 
Russian Communists.”
Tonight, Dr. Ward will attempt 
to outline, analyze, and interpret 
some of the issues of this area of 
interest for those who attend the 
forum. The topic of the gathering 
will be: The Irrationality of the 
Chinese Communists—Some Ob­
servations From Personal Experi­
ence.
3 Years in China
Dr. Ward is certainly well suit­
ed to the topic at hand. He went 
to China in 1946 on a missionary 
[Continued on page 12 J
Selective Service 
Qualification Test 
To Be Given Soon
Selective Service Qualifications 
Tests will be given on November 
17, 1955 and April 19, 1956. Any 
Selective Service registrant who 
is a full-time college student and 
who has- not taken an earlier test 
may take the examination, which 
is used by local draft boards in 
considering student deferments.
Applicants for deferment should 
go to any selective service local 
board for’ a bulletin of informa­
tion, an application, and a mailing 
envelope. The bulletin will give 
a list of examination centers. The 
instructions contained in the bul­
letin should be followed care­
fully and completely.
The application should be filled 
out and mailed at once in the 
envelope provided. Additional in­
formation is available at any 
local board.
ker are co-chairmen of this year’s 
festivities, which will carry out 
the theme of Yankee Yarns.
Traditional Carnegie Day ex­
ercises, which commemorate the 
birthday of Andrew Carnegie, will 
officially open Homecoming at 1:30 
p.m. in the Gymnasium. Following 
presentations by the Tech Kiltie 
Band and Cameron Choir and calls 
and awards by campus honoraries, 
President John C. Warner will 
crown the freshman Homecoming 
Queen who was selected by an all­
school vote of the male students 
today. She and her court .vill reign 
over the three-day festivities.
Sorority Competition 
Varsity Varieties, annual soror­
ity Homecoming competition, will 
highlight Friday afternoon. The 
original skits, which will be based 
on Yankee Yarns, will be present­
ed in the Morewood Recreation 
Room at 3:00.
In anticipation of the Tech-Tem- 
ple game Saturday afternoon a 
giant pep rally will be held at 7^30 
Friday evening in the Tech Bowl. 
Spotlighting the rally, which 
promises to be one of the major 
features of the weekend, will be 
Rege Cordie, popular Pittsburgh 
radio personality. Rege and his 
friends will emcee the pep rally 
and fraternity pledge class cheer 
competition.
Saturday morning will find 
many alumni registering and re­
turning to the campus to partici­
pate in numerous reunion dinners 
and activities planned by the CIT 
Alumni Federation.
Saturday afternoon Tech will 
meet Temple University of Phila­
delphia for the Homecoming Game 
at Forbes Field. Kick-off is sched­
uled for 2:00 p.m.
Bill Brant At Dance 
Highlighting the entire weekend 
will be the Homecoming Dcuice 
which will begin at 9:00 in the 
Gymnasium with Bill Brant and 
his orchestra playing smooth 
danceable music in the main gym 
and Carl Arter, popular jazz stylist 
in the women’s gymnasium. The 
dance is semi-formal and there 
will be no flowers.
At 11:00 trophies will be award­
ed for the Homecoming fraternity 
displays, varsity varieties, pledge 
class cheer competition, and top 
scholarship among fraternities and 
sororities.
Open house at Morewood Gar­
dens on Sunday afternoon will 
mark the close of CIT’s Homecom­
ing weekend.
)en House
Next Tuesday. October 25. 
the annual Carnegie Tech 
Open House will be held. 
Prospective students and many 
other Interested visitors will 
see exhibits set up in almost 
all departments at Te(rh. Also, 
It Is a good <;hance for Terli 
students to see what goes on 
in other departments.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 18, 1955
Carnegie Day Schedule
E Pluribus Unum—March ............................................................................. Fred Jewell
March of the Steelmen ...................................................... Belsterling
The Kiltie Symphonic Band 
George E. Reynolds, Director
Master of Ceremonies ................................ Robert Levin, D. ’56
Ye Banks and Braes O Bonnie Doon......................Percy Grainger
The Kiltie Symphonic Band
Alumni Message ......................................... Mr. Thomas J. Ess, ’22
President, Alumni Federation
Call of Honoraries:
Alpha Phi Omega ............................William Moore, Phys. ’56
Omicron Delta Kappa......................Richard Major, Math. ’56
Phi Kappa Phi .............................. Dr. Donald M. Goodfellow
Associate Professor, English
Pi Tau Sigma .................................. John Dougherty, ME ’56
Omicron Nu ...................... Margaret Heatley, Home Ec. ’56
Rock-a My Soul ........................................................ Joseph DeVaux
Oklahoma .............................................. Rodgers *and Hammerstein
The Cameron Choir 
Richard L. Camp, Director 
Call to Honoraries:
Pi Delta Epsilon ........................ Edward Feigenbaum, EE ’56
Phi Tau Gamma *.............................. Lou Bryant, H. Ec. '56
Tau Beta Pi .................... .........Edward Feigenbaum, EE. ’56
Eta Kappa Nu .............................................Jere Hohmann, EE. ’56
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia .................................... Ray Ponzo, ’56
Youth Triumphant Overture .....................................Henry Hadley
The Kiltie Symphonic Band 
Awards and Presentations:
Presentation of Senior Class
Plaque by Delta Skull ................ Clarence Schmidt, Of. ’57
Council of Fraternity Presidents
Scholarship Cup ........................................ Louis Teti, ME. ’56
Pittsburgh Panhellenic Association
Scholarship Cup ........................................ Mrs. Edwin Merrill,
President, Pittsburgh Panhellenic Association 
Junior Panhellenic Council Trophy .. Joanne Lacey, GS. ’58
Mortar Board Award ..............................Mary Pollock, D. *56
Tau Beta Pi Freshman Award .. Edward Feigenbaum, EE. ’56
Pi Delta Epsilon Award..........Edward Feigenbaum, EE. ’56
Freshman Traditions Awards ... Robert Marik, Chem. E. ’58
Scholars and Honor Students..................Dr. Douglas F. Miner,
Director, Student Personnel and Welfare 
Presentation of President J. C. Warner
Coronation of the Homecoming Queen
Procession of the Nobles (Mlada) .............. Rimsky-Korsakov
The Kiltie Symphonic Band
Coronation Processional ........ .................... The Kiltie Pipers
Scabbard and Blade
Crowning of the Queen ....}............................President Warner
Court Entertainment
Crocketts on Parade ..........Raymond Bevilacqua ..D. ’56;
John Conboy .................D. ’56;
Robert Fields ..............D. ’56;
Leroy Miller ................D. ’56;
Daniel Walker ..............D. ’56.
Scottish Dances ...........................Mary Elizabeth Davidson
Official Opening of Homecoming ................ Homecoming Queen
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie........................... Robert Schmertz
Noted Alumni 
To Receive Honors
By Marlene Daehnert
Homecoming weekend, 1955, expects to see the biggest turnout 
of alums in recent years. Programs have been sent to Tech’s 20,000 
graduates, and it <is hoped that over 1000 of these will attend the 
festivities of “Yankee Yarns.” ?-----------------------------------------------------
Highlighting the alum activities
Tech Scholarship Aid 
Benefits 460 Yearly
By Betsy Kuhn
“Rising costs would make education for the American youth of 
meager means an impossibility if it were not for the generosity of 
scholarship donors.” Here at Tech, there are now 100 sources of 
scholarship money for those students who have good scholastic
records and who are in need of^------------------------------------------------------
financial aid. These sources in­
clude the following: endowed
funds, as illustrated by the United 
States Steel Scholarships; annual 
grants to Tech—the Sloan Schol­
arships; agency scholarships—the 
recipients of these, as sponsored 
by General Electric and other 
agencies, are free to choose enroll­
ment in any college they desire; 
the Alumni Fund consisting of 
$24,000 per year; the budget 
money, or current income of Tech, | 
constitutes the remaining source. | 
The total of these scholarships is 
over $200,000 per year, and of 
this sum, 460 students share the 
benefits.
Athletic Fund
In addition to the above sources, i 
there is the Steffen Memorial 
Fund whose athletic scholarships ; 
are administered by a faculty and j 
alumni committee. Annual funds ! 
received irom the alumni go into j 
these scholarships awarded to stu­
dents of athletic ability showing 
reasonable promise academically. 
Most of these grants are presented 
to students excelling in football ; 
and basketball, yet they are not 
tyictly limited to these two fields.
Students wishing to apply for j 
my of these scholarships should 
make out their applications in the 
near future. The restrictions for
upperclassmen are a 2.75 average 
for two semesters plus a definite 
financial need. Some industrial 
scholarships require only a 2.00- 
2.50 average. The Financial Aid 
Committee, headed by Dr. Miner, 
and consisting of the Deans of 
Placement and the Alumni office, 
administer all scholarships set by 
that committee. The final date for 
scholarship application will be an­
nounced in the Tartan at a later 
date.
will be the presentation of the 
Alumni Awards on October 21, 
1955. The Alumni Committee has 
chosen outstanding Tech gradu­
ates to be honored in two cate­
gories—the Alumni Merit Awards 
and the Alumni Service Awards.
The Merit Awards are given to 
alums who have become outstand­
ing in business, art, education, and 
industry. The recipients of the 
1955 Merit Awards are Lemuel 
Cross Dillenback, A’13, Dean of 
the College of Fine Arts, Syracuse 
University, Syracuse, New York; 
J. Byers Hays, A’13, architect of 
Cleveland, Ohio; David John Mc­
Donald, A’32, president of the 
United Steelworkers of America; 
and Herman L. Weckler, E’10, 
Vice president, Clevite Corpora­
tion, Cleveland, Ohio.
Service Awards 
The Service Awards are given 
to alumni who have distinguished 
themselves with service to their 
school and its graduates. These 
men and women have given much 
time and effort to organizing 
alumni activities. This year the 
six Service Awards will be pre­
sented to John J. Boyle, E’33, 
Cleveland, Ohio; O. A. Dick&an, 
I’22, New York, New York; Sam­
uel Horelich, E’12, Pittsburgh; 
Miss L. Maud Fire, M’20, Pitts­
burgh; Miss Edith Scott Glenn, 
M’10, Pittsburgh; and Miss Nora
I. Willetts, M’26, Pittsburgh.
An interesting sideline to the 
weekend events is the fiftieth an­
niversary of the Class of 1908. The 
1908 grads are Carnegie Tech’s 
charter' class and were the first 
ones to officially register here in 
1905. Since 100 Porter Hall was 
the only finished room in 1905 
and also the one where they had 
their first assembly, the Class of 
1908 will hold their reunion meet­
ing in 100 Porter Hall at 10:30 
a.m. on Friday, October 21, 1955. 
The speaker at this reunion is to 
be President John C. Warner who 
will also be the host at a luncheon 
given in honor of the Class of 1908.
Carnegie Day
The Homecoming activities will 
begin at 1:30 p.m. on October 21 
with the Carnegie Day exercises 
in the Gymnasium. A concert by 
the Kiltie Band and Cameron 
Choir has been arranged, and the 
student honorary awards will be 
presented.
At 4:00 p.m. the Pittsburgh 
Women’s Clan will sponsor a re­
ception and tea at Carnegie Un­
ion. Class reunion dinners are 
scheduled for 6:00 p.m., and there 
will also be a Tartan Buffet at 
Hotel Webster Hall for alumni 
who can’t attend the dinners.
The main activities for October 
22 occur at 2:00 p.m. when Car­
negie Tech plays Temple at 
Forbes Field and at 6:30 p.m. 
when the Alumni Dinner Dance 
will be held in the ballroom of 
the Schenley Park HoteL Other 
events of the day include the 
9:00 a.m. Alumni Breakfast and 
Council Meeting in Morewood 
[Continued on page 5]
Lost And Found 
In All Buildings
In the public interest, Alpha Phi 
Omega service fraternity presents 
this information about the lost and 
found system here at Tech. If you 
lose or find something, please go 
to the main lost and found office at 
AH 154 and inquire at the desk. 
Other offices are located in the- 
following places: Administration
Hall, Main Desk; Eng. Hall, Chem. 
Eng. Office; Mach. Hall, Elec. Eng. 
Office; Fine Arts, Main Office Rm. 
100; Skibo, Mrs. Price’s Office; 
MMCC, Mrs. Pick’s Office; Gym, 
Athletic Department Office; SIA, 
Main Office (Dorothy Stewart).
Some of the many articles now 
on file in the main office, AH 154, 
are listed below:
1 yellow check jacket 
5 dark blue jackets
3 brown j i^kets 
1 black suede jacket 
1 grey jacket 
1 blue and black jacket 
1 blue check jacket 
1 yellow jacket (Univ. of Mich.) 
1 reversible light blue-dark blue 
jacket 
1 charcoal grey jacket 
1 dark green jacket 
1 St. Vincent sweater (football 
mgr. letter.) ,
1 girl’s brown sweater 
1 girl’s dark blue sweater 
1 girl’s yellow blouse 
1 girl’s yellow shorts 
1 boy’s gym shorts 
1 white silk scarf 
1 red and white umbrella 
1 rust colored umbrella 
1 wristwatch, plaid band 
1 high school ring, Johnston, 
initials FYB
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
| ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES^
Campus Cleaners
Pledges Gained 
By All Sororities 
And Fraternities
In the first fall issue of the 
Tartan, the names of the men 
pleding fraternities were pub­
lished. Since then 100 more men 
have pledged. Also, 22 girls have 
pledged the Tech sororities. The 
sorority and additional fraternity 
pledges are listed below.
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Elizabeth 
Neumann, Elizabeth Mersky, Jan­
ice Greenberg, Jean Barr, Elena 
Gurwitz.
Chi Omega: Ruth Kueshner, 
Sherry Moulton, Denise Barone, 
Nancy Tresky.
Delta Delta Delta: Margie Clay­
ton, Jackie Robson, Marilyn Law­
rence.
Delta Gamma: Mar jo King,
Mary Andrews, Doris Northrup.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Nancy
Rohl, Sue Evans.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Dodie
Chidester, Sally Clark, Carolou 
Fidder.
Sigma Kappa: Georgann Bisi, 
Dotty Wharton.
Alpha Tau Omega: Jerry Coon, 
Jack Billy, George Paris, F red 
Garibaldi, Dick Hamilton, Tom 
Beig, Bob Clements, Eric Suggs, 
Bruce MacDonald, Buff Atkinson, 
Walt Labys, Don Voegel, Nick 
Supkovich, John Dobrian.
Social Member: Bill Ludwig.
Beta Sigma Rho: Richard Simon.
Beta Theta Pi: Glenn Harris, 
David Rau, Carl McVicker, How­
ard Inglefield, Pete Bos, J ay Brant, 
Jacob Patla, Robert Hilles, David 
Thomas, Ken Wassam, Dale Keh- 
ler, Barney Powers, Peter Stuhl- 
dreher, Jack Weinhold, Bob Rose.
Delta Tau Delta: Rodger Kess­
ler, Bob Larson, Paul Loukides, 
A1 Dietrich.
Delta Upsilon: Boyd Doxtaker, 
Buster Guise, Dan Schafer, Gary 
Gottlieb.
Kappa Sigma: Robert Anderson, 
Jack Van Cott., W. F. Michael, 
Dave King, Anthony Capul, Don 
Casey, Walt Konjolka, Charles 
Goetz, Bob Mannering, Hank Bar- 
cus, Alan Peterson, John Keim, 
[Continued on page 121
50 million 
times a day 
at home, at work 
or on the viay
There's nothing like a
•OTTICO UND» AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY IT
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPAN* Of P1TTSBI!R«H 
5722 Center Avenue inland 1-7011
"€•!«•” U • r.gi.lfd trode-mork. O ««3, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 18, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
Enrollment Statistics: 
Men Hold Same 3-1 Edge
The final tabulation of enrollment statistics shows that this year 
there are 3206 day students enrolled at Carnegie Tech, an increase 
of about 7% over the 2987 counted at this time last year. Every 
college and school has a share of the additional population, but
some gained more than others. ?---------------------------------------------------
As to be expected, the largest mi . -*T i ^lhis Year’s C Book 
Presents New Look
gain in number of students was 
shown by the largest college, En­
gineering and Science. This year 
they have 1673 as compared with 
1590 in 1954-55.
Fine Arts enrollment increased 
to 646, 58 more than last year. 
Most of this increase is due to the 
greatly increased number of P&D 
freshmen. In that department, 
there are 77 freshmen and only 103 
upperclassmen. Printing manage­
ment also has admitted more new 
students, making a total of 153, 27 
more than last year, an increase of 
21%. MMCC showed a gain of only 
12 students and the enrollment in 
industrial management, industrial 
administration, library science, and 
psychology remained almost un­
changed.
The largest percentage gain was 
evidenced by the little publicized 
Graduate School of Psychology, 
which went up by 87.5%. Now 
they have 15 students, as compar­
ed with only eight last year. *
Bad News, Fellas
The always interesting ratio of 
men to women is almost exactly 
3-1 this year, there being 2400 men 
and 806 women. Last year the ratio 
was 2.94-1. Things are getting 
worse (or better, as the case may 
be.)
Whether the following compari­
sons mean anything or not is de­
batable, but they are interesting 
anyhow. Last year there were 753 
freshmen, and now we have only 
672 sophomores. Similarly, there 
were 677 sophomores and 578 jun­
iors in 1954-55, and there are 631 
juniors and 575 seniors registered 
for 1955-56. This may prove that 
there is a high degree of retentiv- 
ity in the upper classes.
The tabulated breakdown as to 
departments:
Men Women
Did you know that the shortest 
surname on campus (Yu) appears 
alphabetically just before the long­
est (Yutthasastrkosol), that there 
dents’ names run from Abbas to 
Zukowski? - _
The 1955-56 “C” Book, now on 
sale for 40 cents in the Bookstore, 
contains this information and 
much more. The “C” Book, pub­
lished by Alpha Phi Omega scout­
ing honorary, is a directory of 
students’ hame addresses and local 
telephone numbers.
Also listed in the directory are 
numbers of fraternities, sororities, 
men’s and women’s dormitories, 
student departmental clubs, hon- 
oraries, religious groups, and pub­
lications, as well ag the telephone 
numbers of officers of these or­
ganizations.
An addition to this year’s “C” 
Book, which has a distinctive tan 
cover, is a list of faculty heads and 
religious counselors printed on 
the inside of the rear cover.
Chem. E....................... 259
Civil E.......................... 168
Elee. E.......................... 371
Mech. E........................384
Met. E.......................... 131
Chem............................. 108
Math. ....................... 43
Physics ...................... 186
Directive Issued 
Clarifies Campus 
Conduct Rules
Anyone who read the bulletin 
board posters last week was 
greeted by an official looking 
statement concerning campus con­
duct, That directive, which was a 
result of the joint efforts of CFP, 
Men’s Dorm Council, and Women’s 
Dorm Council, was issued in order 
to improve the general situation 
existing on campus, especially in 
and around Morewood Gardens. 
These groups felt that they should 
do something before the conditions 
would incite administrative re­
strictions. Some of the resolutions 
are merely restatements of long 
standing and slightly ignored rules.
The complete directives:
„ “This Concerns You!”
1. Men and women of Carnegie 
Tech shall conduct themselves 
in a gentlemanly and lady-like 
manner at all times.
A. This applies particularly to 
conduct in Morewood 
Lounge.
2. A tie and jacket will be worn 
by men taking dinner in More­
wood.
3. There will be no display of 
alcoholic beverages at Forbes 
Field during Carnegie Tech 
athletic events.
4. Morewood Gardens is off lim­
its after 12:00 p.m. any night 
of the week for purposes other 
than returning a girl to More­
wood.
Queen Candidates Presented
Ed Fredrickson introduces Denise Getsie to the voters in the 
Donner Hall lounge Friday evening during the presentation of the 
Queen contestants.
This directive is a result of the 
joint efforts of: Council of Fra­
ternity Presidents, Men’s Dorm 
Council and Women’s Dorm Coun­
cil.
Infractions of campus rules will 
be dealt with more severely in the 
future.
October 7, 1955
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0242 or At, 1-3200
Charlie Stickels asks:
Does 
Du Pont hire 
graduates who 
are draft 
eligible?
165023
Total E&S1673
Arch............................. 1507
Drama ....................... 10377
7554
P&D..........................8991
------------
Totals ....................... 417229
Total Fine Arts 646
Gen. St.......................81
160
133
111
Total MMCC ..........518
Ind. Mgt............103
Prt. Mgt.....................153
Grad. S.I.A................. 572
141
633
------------
Sub Totals ...............2400806
Grand Total 3206 
Class Breakdown
Freshmen ..........____ 584231
........ 507165
........ 454177
........ 418157
........35536
........ 8040
At least one person on campus 
reads the fillers. It has been called 
to our attention that the library 
statistics we quoted in the October 
4 issue were grossly understated. 
Tech libraries contain over 131,000 
volumes and subscribe to over 
1,700 journals. ________
No Council
There will be no Student 
Council meeting Wednesday, 
October 19. The next regular 
meeting will be held on Wed­
nesday, October 26, 1955, at 
4:30 p.m. in PH 100.
CHARLES A. STICKELS is currently working toward his B.S.E. 
degrees in chemical and metallurgical engineering at the Univer­
sity of Michigan. Mr. Stickels is past Editor-in-Chief of the Michi- 
gan Technic, vice-president of his student chapter of A.I.Ch.E., 
and a member of several honorary engineering fraternities. His 
editorial work has made him especially aware of contemporary 
employment questions facing engineering graduates.
John Oliver answers :
The answer to that is definitely “Yes!”, Charlie. We’ve 
employed quite a number of college graduates with 
definite military commitments, sometimes knowing that 
they could work only a few weeks before reporting for 
active duty.
The reason is that Du Pont is primarily interested 
in men on a “long range” basis. The fact that they’re 
temporarily unavailable—for a good reason like mili­
tary service—isn’t any bar to being considered for 
employment. After working only one day, an employee 
is guaranteed full re-employment rights—that’s the 
law. But if a man works for Du Pont at least a full 
year before joining the service, he gets a bonus of two 
months’ salary. If he’s entitled to a vacation but doesn’t 
have time to take it before leaving, Du Pont gives him 
equivalent pay instead.
Even if present employment is impossible, Charlie, 
we definitely recommend your talking with Du Pont’s 
representatives—and those of other companies, too. 
The very least you’ll gain will be valuable background 
and some contacts which may be of real benefit to you 
when you leave military service.
JOHN OLIVER, also a University of Michigan 
man, received his B.S. in Mech. Eng. in 1938. 
Right after graduation, he began working for 
Du Pont in the Engineering Section of its Belle, 
W. Va., plant. Following this came an assign­
ment as Departmental Engineer in the Wilming­
ton offices, and today John Oliver is again al 
Belle—this time as Assistant Plant Manager.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about working with 
Du Pont? Send for a free copy of “Chemical 
Engineers at Du Pont,” a booklet that tell« 
you about pioneering work being done in 
• chemical engineering—in research, process de* 
velopment, production and sales. Write to 
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 
Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER UVINOs1 {THROUGH CHtMKT»f 
WATCH "DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER" ON TV

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 18, 1955
OÜCH.?- MV SHREWD LEQAL 
SENSE TELLS ME THIS FIGHT 
iS-G^P.r-lslor ENTJRELV r~ 
FAIR//'- BUT— ,--------> v
•NEAT HAIR,1—<(W/TH W/LOROOT 
CREAM-OIL) r 
GIVES ME \ 
CONFIDENCE"
uHtUUi.
ForthepFasvlwk
IF YOUSE CAN LICK I
——VOL.49No,5CO ARE OOOOO
MEMBER,TH' WHOLE GANG 
WILL SURRENDER, FOSDICK"
CRlMt
A.C-
S. A. M. E.
To initiate its fall program of 
field trips, the Carnegie student 
chapter of the Society of Ameri­
can Military Engineers will travel 
to the Conemaugh Dam on Thurs­
day, October 20. The trip, begin­
ning about 12:30 and lasting for 
five hours, will provide S.A.M.E. 
members with an opportunity to 
thoroughly inspect the dam site 
and observe the functions of the 
Corps of Engineers in building and 
maintaining such structures.
The largest of eight flood con­
trol reservoirs located above 
Pittsburgh, the Conemaugh Dam 
was completed in September, 
1953. While the dam’s principal 
function is to provide flood pro­
tection for Pittsburgh and other 
industrial towns in the valleys of 
the lower Conemaugh, Kiskimine- 
tas, lower Allegheny, and upper 
Ohio rivers, the area surrounding 
it has become a favorite recrea­
tional ground for local picnickers 
and boaters, who are carefully su­
pervised by the Corps of Engi­
neers detachment at the dam.
Those S.A.M.E. members wish­
ing to make the trip may be ex­
cused from Thursday afternoon 
classes by filling out excuse forms. •
A short meeting will be held on : 
Tuesday, October 18 at 12:30 in ¦ 
Room 231 AH for those going on 
the excursion.
Student Council
Student Council met on Wed­
nesday, October 12 to further dis­
cuss and hear the defense of the 
PiKA’s, Kappa Sig’s, and DU’s, 
who had been serving drinks at ! 
their fraternity houses on the eve­
ning of the Varsity C-Club dance.
These three fraternities were ac­
cused by an investigating commit­
tee set up by Student Council of 
violating an fnter-school ruling 
that “all fraternity bars are to be 
closed during all-school functions.” ,
The fraternities stated that j 
neither the actives nor the pledges 
were drinking; but that the alumni 
and visitors had been doing so. ! 
None of the three denied that their 
bars had been opened, but only 
that the members had not been 
drinking.
After some debate, Student 
Council found the three guilty of 
violating a school law, and sug­
gested that they be put on proba­
tion for one. week, starting Thurs­
day, October 13, at midnight, 
which was agreed to by the ad­
ministration.
Student Council also has passed 
the constitutions of the Radio and 
Industrial clubs, which will go in­
to effect immediately.
Home Ec Club
The Home Economics Club will 
officially begin the year’s activity 
at the first meeting on Wednesday, 
October 19, at 3:30 p.m. in the 
Breed Memorial Hall, Margaret 
Morrison Building.
The program, Looking for Your 
Pot of Gold, is planned for all stu­
dents of the home economics de­
partment. Guest speakers, each a 
specialist in their respective fields 
of home economics, will elaborate 
on the opportunities open to the 
home economics major after grad­
uation. They are Miss Irene Mc- 
Dermitt from the County Board of 
Education, and Mr. Coan of Joseph 
Horne Co. The program will be 
valuable to all students who desire 
to correlate their present studies j 
with a future career.
All women from the home 
economics department are invited j 
to attend this meeting and a 
special invitation to membership ! 
is extended to these students, j 
Memberships may be' procured on 
Tuesday between 11:30 and 1:30 
and again on Wednesday before 
the meeting. A copy of the year’s j 
program will also be available at j 
the meeting.
The Club wishes to remind all . 
would be magazine subscribers of j 
the reduced subscription rates that ; 
are available now.
Music Dept. Recital
A ’cello-piano recital, the first in 
a series of recitals by Music De­
partment faculty, will be present­
ed on Sunday, October 23, at 8:30 
p.m., by Eugene Eicher, ’cellist, 
and Nelson Whitaker, pianist, in 
the Exhibion Hall, College of Fine 
Arts.
you near the Radio Club’s area 
on the top floor of Machinery 
Hall. The conversation will be that 
of a ham (a licensed radio ama­
teur) at the controls of the club’s 
transmitter as he chews the fat, 
over the radio waves with a 
friend who may be located in most 
any part of the world.
Recently Reorganized 
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club, 
which is one of the older clubs on 
campus, has recently reorganized 
after a year of “cold storage.” A 
whole array of activities are plan­
ned for the present membership 
of about 40. Both amateur and 
general electronics projects are al­
ready underway. A kilowatt trans­
mitter capable of being heard in 
all corners of the world is pres-
Educational Center
Every evening of the week of­
fers choice bits of entertainment, 
wisdom and insight in the new 
season of informally presented ac­
tivities for all adults of the com­
munity at the Isaac Seder Educa­
tional Center of the Y.M.&W.H.A. 
The fall semester activities start 
this Monday evening, October 17.
Music for everyone’s listening 
pleasure from jazz to the classics; 
literature ranging from the phil­
osophical works of Nietzsche to the 
current plays at the local theatres; 
psychoanalysis, psychiatry, psy­
chology; dancing, bridge playing, 
painting, sewing, etc.—everything 
for everyone’s taste—is available 
in the informal atmosphere of the 
Y’s Educational Center.
The invitation to understanding 
and pleasure through the half a 
hundred offerings in classes, lec­
ture .series, concerts, workshops, 
discussion groups, film series, spe­
cial events, and much more is 
open to all adults.
Monday evenings offer a series 
of jazz concerts, “Hot Jazz and 
Cool Progressions: Lave Music for 
Your Listening and Whistling 
Pleasure” with two complete 
bands—a Dixieland jazz group un­
der the leadership of the well 
known Professor Robert W. 
Schmertz, and a progressive jazz- 
band under the guidance of pian­
ist Charles Berlin. Classes held on 
Mondays include Painting and 
Drawing, French, Hebrew and an 
afternoon course in Interior Dec­
oration.
Complete descriptive brochures 
are available upon request at the 
Y.M.&W.H.A., MAyflower 1-6500. 
All activities are open to everyone.
Symphony
No concert artist of the present 
day is revered and honored by so 
many people as is Marian Ander­
son, distinguished American con­
tralto who will be the first soloist 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony Or­
chestra this season at its second 
pair of concerts Friday evening 
and Sunday afternoon, October 21 
and 23 at Syria Mosque.
A maker of headlines for nearly 
two decades, Miss Anderson was 
front-page news again this year 
as the first of her race ever to sing 
with the Metropolitan Opera. It 
was in January ,in a revival of 
Verdi’s The Masked Ball, con­
ducted by Dimitri Mitropolis.
She has been granted awards 
and degrees from cities, universi­
ties, societies and governments.
She has performed some 1,300 
concerts before more than 5,000,- 
| 000 persons, in addition to which 
| millions more know her through 
• her frequent broadcasts on the 
Bell Telephone Hour, her televi­
sion appearances and her many 
recordings.
With the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra this weekend, Miss An­
derson will sing Mahler’s “Kin- 
dertotenlieder,” song cycle and 
Saint-Saems’ “My Heart at Thy 
| Sweet Voice” from Samson and 
Delilah.
William Steinberg will conduct 
the Orchestra in Schubert’»' Sym­
phony No. 4, Ravel’s Raphodie Es- 
pagnole and Balakirev’s Islamey.
Tickets for this and all con- 
I certs by the Pittsburgh Symphony 
! are on sale at the Symphony box 
! office in Kaufmann’s, at the per- 
j sonal service counters of Gim- 
1 bels and Horne’s.
Mr. Whitaker, a faculty mem­
ber since 1948, received his edu­
cation at the University of Texas 
and the University of California at 
Berkeley. A native of Texas, he 
studied piano with Dallies Frantz 
and Webster Aitken, American 
concert pianists. Mr. Eicher stud­
ied ’cello with Joseph Derdeyn 
who taught at CIT for forty years. 
He also attended Curtis Institute 
of Music in Philadelphia where 
he studied ’cello with Gregor 
Piatiagorsky, concert ’cellist who 
was soloist with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra last season. 
Mr. Eicher is beginning his third 
year on the faculty.
Distinguished Program 
The program will include: 
Sonata, Op. 102, No. 1 in C
Major ........................ Beethoven
Variations and Epilogue, Op. 31.
.................................. Lopatnikoff
Sonata in A Major..............Franck
The Variations and Epilogue is a 
composition of Nikolai Lopatni­
koff, Professor of Composition in 
the Music Department. His most 
recent work, the Third Symphony, 
was given its world premiere per­
formance in December 1955 by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
The public is cordially invited to 
attend this recital and all other 
music department functions. The 
next recital will be sponsored by 
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia music fra­
ternity on November 1, 1955. Free 
tickets for Sunday’s recital and 
following ones may be obtained in 
the music department office, Room 
159, Fine Arts.
j ently under construction, and spe- 
: clal code instruction equipment is 
1 being readied for those interested 
I in learning or improving their 
; proficiency in the Morse Code.
Also on the club’s agenda of ac­
tivities for the coming winter are 
projects concerning micro-wave 
! communication, the various radio 
i modulation systems i n c 1 uding 
; communication by means of light 
> beams, in addition to other studies.
1 The Radio Club plans to take sev- 
I eral field trips to places of partic- 
| ular interest in the Pittsburgh 
j area such ao the various studios 
and transmitters of the local 
radio stations.
Club To Relay Messages 
Radio Club President Bill Wil­
cox announced that the club plans 
to cooperate elosely with the 
Pittsburgh Civil Defense Radio 
Network. The club will be happy 
to relay any messages for stu­
dents away from home of an ur­
gent nature. There is no charge 
for this, of course.
The newly elected executive 
committee working with Presi­
dent Bill Wilcox is as follows: 
Bill Carr, Vice-President; Secre­
tary, Lee Doby; Chief Engineer, 
Bob Sorkin; Special Events Su­
pervisor, Bill McWilliams; Treas­
urer, John Hess.
W3NKI de EA1AA 73es88
No doubt this odd title has you 
wondering what exhilirating brand 
| of spirits this week’s Tartan lino- 
j type operator enjoys. These figures 
represent a brief portion of a con­
versation between a charming 
Spanish senorita at her radio set 
and a member of the Carnegie 
Tech Radio Club. She is making 
love to him via the radio waves 
from Spain as she says “best re­
gards to you along with loads of 
love and kisses.” The few sym­
bols known here are typical of 
the universal language employed 
by radio amateurs the world over.
You will hear more of this gib­
berish, although perhaps it will be 
of a more technical nature, when
International Club
j Tech International Club held a 
i business and elections meeting in 
the Carnegie Union on Friday, 
’ Oct. 14. Results of the elections 
were as follows: Peer Soelberg, 
j Norway, President; Edward Kung, 
China, Vice President; Harriet En 
; Chang, U.S., Secretary-Treasurer; 
i Alvi, Pakistan, Social Chairman.
The International Club plans to 
j hold nine meetings, a Xmas party, 
and a farewell party in the re- 
i mainder of the academic year. 
! Outstanding speakers from differ­
ent countries will highlight the 
regular meetings which will also 
feature dancing and other recrea­
tions. Some meetings will be held 
jointly with other campus organi­
zations such as the YWCA. An 
International Talent Show is being 
considered as the main feature of 
the Xmas Party.
The meetings of the Internation­
al Club are open to all Tech stu­
dents and their guests.
Welcome, Alumni!
See the newest thing on campus—C. I. T. Glass 
Tumbler with etched seal, gold or silver rim.
C. I. T. BOOKSTORE
For leisure wear, the Wesboro Style W1079 *6.95*
*8.95*
For "dress upW1085 ?7.95*^WESBORO wardrobefor only *2355 •s In <*quht
See the hundreds of Wesboro styles at your 
A*k y«ur dealer, or writ* Dept. CNio, Wesboro Shoe Dealer. Also makers of fineFKEI1 Helpful Wesboro Or*«* Chart.
Dtïiêion ot international Sho* City Club Shoes . . . from $8.95 to $17.95.
Company, St. Loui* 3, Miswurl. ««lightly hi?b«> In the Weat aad Soatfc. .... '
CONTAINS NATURES UANOLIN.rr-RELlEVES 
DRYKIESS.'.'-REMOVES
,TTcfnaiymn ------r/
DANDRUFF.?- ^
GET WILDROOT 
CREAM-OIL 
CHARLIE.'/'
BUT, DAT 
WOULD BE 
ILLEGAL­
ITY hJAME 
IS
ARTHUR.?
ONLY CREAM-OIL GROOMS AND 
CONDITIONS HAIR TUE NATURAL WAY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 18, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
Students!
EARN
$255?!
in on the Lucky We pay $25 for a whole
lege town from whom you buy cigarettes most often. Address: Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, Mount Vernon, N.Y.
CONFUSION REIGNS in the Droodle above, titled: Switchboard operated by 
absent-minded Lucky smoker. Poor girl’s been swamped by too many phone calls. 
But she isn’t confused about better taste—she smokes Luckies. Luckies taste better, 
first of all, because Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then “It’s Toasted” to taste 
even better . .. cleaner, fresher, smoother. Switch to Lucky Strike yourself. You’ll 
say it’s the best-tasting cigarette you ever smoked—and you won’t have your
wires crossed, either.DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
MAN STEPPING 
- ON GUM
Jerry Bacik 
Kent State
TKETHPICK . .
Takashi Shida 
Los Angeles City College
SALE—50% OFF
Jimmy N. Brewer 
Henderson State T.C.
FLYING SAUCER 
CHASING ROCKET SHIP
Leslie Poindexter Sarah Lawrence
Morewood Gardens 
Holds Open House; 
Neat Room Award
As part of the Homecoming 
celebration, Morewood Gardens 
will hold its annual open house 
on Sunday, October 23 from 2 to 
4 p.m. During these hours the 
rooms and lounges of the dorm 
will be open for visiting parents, 
alumni, and friends. An additional 
feature of the open house will be 
the teas and receptions in the liv­
ing room on various floors. There 
will be no official guides; however, 
the elevators .will be run by vol­
unteer aides who will help visitors 
to locate rooms and to finding their 
way through the maze of halls in 
Morewood.
During the Homecoming week­
end, Dean Hackett, Mrs. Hagins, 
the resident head of-. Morewood 
Gardens; Mrs. Kline, the hostess 
for towers A and B; and Mrs. Wil­
son, the hostess for towers C and 
D, will act as judges for the se­
lection of the three neatest and 
most attractive rooms in the dorm. 
Their selections will be made 
from one room on each floor 
which has been chosen by the 
girls living there as representa­
tive of the floor. The winners will 
be presented with gift certificates 
redeemable at a downtown de­
partment store. This year will be 
the first that such an award is 
given. It is the result of Dorm 
Council’s action to institute a 
room honor system.
Advisory Committee Organized 
For Better F.aculty Relations
Donner Snack Bar Opens
This is an epicure’s dream—the Donner Hall snack bar shown 
here at it’s gala opening Friday night. Luis De La Macorra serves 
the first gastronomic delight.
Dormitory Council 
Approves; Donner 
Snack Bar Opens
Last Friday night at seven 
o’clock in the evening a new Snack 
Bar was opened in the Donner 
Hall recreation room.
The idea of having a Snack Bar 
came up last semester through the 
Men’s Dorm Council. Permission 
was asked of the administration to 
use the room with kitchen facili­
ties that existed in the rec room. 
After this permission was granted, 
Men’s Dorm Council appointed a 
committee to organize and set up 
the Snack Bar, but nothing much 
was accomplished.
The question came up again this 
semester in the first meeting of 
Men’s Dorm Council and another 
committee headed by Luis de la 
Macorra was appointed. Finally, 
after many troubles and problems 
that this committee had to solve, 
everything was arranged and the 
residents of the dormitories now 
have a much needed food service.
The Snack Bar is under the able 
direction of Claude Gibble. It is a 
non-profit organization sponsored 
by the Men’s Dorm Council and 
set ’p expressly to improve the 
food service conditions on campus. 
There are plans for future ex­
pansions; for example, the use of 
china for the service of coffee, and 
the addition of a greater variety of 
foods to the menu.
We want to extend our con­
gratulations to the people that are 
in charge and to wish them the 
best of luck.
Slide Rule
The first of two lectures on 
the use of the slide rule will 
be presented on Wednesday, 
October 19, at 4:30 in Room 
2210, Engineering Hall. These 
lectures, sponsored by Tau 
Beta Pi, should be of special 
interest to all E & S fresh­
men.
The Undergraduate Advisory 
Committee is being reorganized 
this semester. Dean Graham, after 
much consultation with the faculty 
and administration, is assuming 
the responsibilities of adviser.
Tech has tried in the past to 
organize an undergraduate ad­
visory committee as a means of 
communication between students 
and faculty. The original attempt 
was made at the suggestion of 
several interested members of the 
student body. This committee con­
sisted largely of members of ODK. 
However, when these members 
graduated, nobody filled their 
places; consequently, the group 
failed. In 1952, another committee 
was organized. This time the mem­
bers were appointed by President 
Warner. This group also failed 
after a few semesters.
In reorganizing the Undergradu­
ate Advisory Committele, Dean 
Graham has chosen Sylvia Fasick, 
Edward Feigenbaum, Ivy Hill, 
Larry Kronenberger, William 
MacDonald, Joan Newman, Ed­
ward Pasierb, Robert Russell, and 
William Zakowicz as its beginning 
members and he hopes that they in 
turn will suggest those students 
whom they feel belong on the 
committee.
On October 4, Dean Graham met 
with the new committee to ac­
quaint them with the purposes of
the Undergraduate Advisory Com­
mittee. He had John G. Johnson, 
secretary, of the Alumni Associa­
tion and member of the original 
student committee, brief the new 
members on previous attempts to 
organize. During the meeting, 
Dean Graham asked the committee 
if they themselves, felt as individ­
uals that they could serve the 
group effectively. Moreover, he 
also wanted the committee be fore 
its next meeting to consider ways 
in which they can act “as a sound­
ing board between student and 
faculty”.
Dean Graham sincerely hopes 
that the reorganization of the 
committee “will enable'students to 
partake in many more extraTcur- 
ricular activities and that students 
will assume as much responsibility 
as they can handle effectively.” 
The Dean particularly wishes that 
through the committee “all school 
matters may be discussed, and that 
students will talk with the faculty 
and administration and not about 
them.”
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Reporters
All TARTAN reporters are 
urged to check the TARTAN 
bulletin board in Skibo by 
Wednesday afternoon every 
week for assignments. This 
coming week will be a con­
fused one due to Homecoming, 
but please try to have all ar­
ticles about Homecoming 
events at the TARTAN office 
by 1:00 p.m. Sunday afternoon.
Alumni—
[Continued from page 2] 
Gardens, the Dean’s “Question 
Box” at 10:30 a.m. which will 
bring all alums up-to-date on 
school information, and the 4:30 
p.m. Cocktail Party at the Schen- 
ley Park Hotel Supper Room.
Alums certainly have many rea­
sons for returning to their old 
Alma Mater during Homecoming, 
1955. No wonder so many are ex­
pected to come back.
ENGINEERING THEATER
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome ,
SPONSORED BYAmerican Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto­
motive Engineers in Conjunc­tion with AIEE & AICHE
CM0N POODLE, LETS DROODLE !
XTS THIS? For solution, see
parograph below.
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER ~ C/eaner, fresher. Smoother!
q ©A.T.Co" moduct of i/& Jï£n*i<je<2n <Ju&jejec~£crny*a7ty amirica'i leading manuf *ctuk»* or cjoadstim

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 18, 1955
Editorial—
In A Dilemma
The events of the past few days have 
set us wondering about the editorials of the 
past few issues. In the leadership conference 
held three weeks ago, it was almost unani­
mously decided that one of the serious prob­
lems facing our campus was the creation of 
closer co-operation and understanding among 
the different colleges. One means of par­
tially accomplishing this integration would 
be to have some required soc rel courses 
which would be common to all schools. But 
the integration should certainly not stop 
when classes do. It was the suggestion of 
the leaders that much closer harmony could 
be achieved in extra-curricular activities 
also.
Then, on the heels of the plea from the 
leaders and from the Tartan, came the news 
that the drama department has excused it­
self from the all-school, calendared event of 
Homecoming. The drama department runs 
on such a rigid schedule that they cannot 
permit their students to have a free weekend 
at a time when all other Carnegie Tech stu­
dents have their privilege.
Cries of protest have arisen from all 
sides. The majority of the freshmen dramats, 
who have some false illusions about freedom^ 
to attend the event of their choice, and some 
upperclassmen, resent the fact that they will have to work ; 
while everyone else enjoys Homecoming. On the other ; f'Ifiri'fiffttlfM
hand, the very enthusiastic drama students would rather de- 
vote their efforts to the productions than bother with such Editor, the Tartan:
a picayunish and rather silly thing as Homecoming any- j should like to comment on the.directive sent 
how. The rest of the campus falls into one of the following out by CFP, Men’s Dorm Council, and Women’s 
categories: Dorm Council.
1. Type ‘‘A”—Glad to see that someone is finally trying ; First, I would like to say that there is some
_. i • .i i *. confusion on the part of the students as to theto dissolve the barr.er that separates the dramats from the mean)ng o( s<M.tion four which states that,..More-
rest of the campus and its activities. wood Gardens is off limits after 12:00 p.m. any
2. Type “B”—Convinced that the drama school has to night of the week for purposes other than return- 
operate the way it does and resentful that those who are ing a girl to Morewood.” The fault here seems 
ignorant of their problems (especially engineers) should to lie with the wording of the directive, rather than
with the students.
It does not mean that a boy cannot bring his 
date back to the dorm later than 12:00, or that he 
cannot remain until 12:30 (1:30 on weekends.) But 
its purpose is twofold:
1.) to limit the demonstrations outside of More- 
wood late at night which are disturbing the 
neighbors and giving the school a bad repu­
tation.
2.) to stop the girls from encouraging the boys 
by shouting and applauding from their win­
dows.
It seems to me that the administration has a 
legitimate complaint. By the time we reach col­
lege level we should have some respect for others, 
but we certainly do not show it by these demonstra­
tions late at night (or very early in the morning.) 
Sincerely yours,
A Morewood Dweller.
Letters—
have the audacity to suggest that it is not acting properly.
3. Type “C”—Roaring mad over the fact that tickets were 
temporarily withheld for the October 21 and 22 presentations 
of “Cocktail Party.” “Everyone should have the right to 
choose for himself what he wants to do and where he wants 
to go.”
4. Type “D’’—Bored stiff by the whole mess.
All this makes us wonder if integration, as mentioned 
previously, is worth striving for. Should the administration 
try to force the drama department to comply with campus 
conventionality? Or should they let them continue to run 
their own affairs? Should we bother about trying to create 
a closer feeling between the engineer and the Fine Arts stu­
dent? Or should we remain in the status quo, believing that 
neither understands the other and doesn’t want to, need 
to, or have time to try?
What should be the Tartan’s position here? Should we 
bow gracefully and apologetically out of the picture and de­
vote our time in the future to derisions of Student Council, 
comments on bridge and the weather, and reviews of lace 
doily exhibits? Or should we continue to work for more 
closer cooperation between the various schools of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology in the future, and for more integra­
tion among the student body as soon as possible? We have 
several courses open to us, as the campus newspaper, and 
we want to choose wisely.
R.H.R.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
Ml'seum 1-4557; alter hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editar-ia-Chief ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
Htitiness Manager  ...................... .................................... .........................Vic Shiry
New« Editar............. ............................................. ...........................................Marjo King
Sparti Editar.......................................... ............ ........................  .Tom Wright I
Capy Editor..................................................................................................................... Richard Fox {
I ratures Editar..................................................... ............ ........................................Stephanie Mackay j
Bar Rule Questioned
Editor, the Tartan:
The Fraternity Bar Rule, which prohibits the 
functioning of any fraternity’s bar during a sched- 
i uled all-school event, such as the recent C-Club 
j dance, has been established and enforced as a pos­
sible means of augmenting school spirit. However, 
I contend that such a law actually defeats its own 
purpose. It is highly doubtful whether the ex- 
ystence of the regulation substantially improved the 
attendance at the C-Club dance (which is arbi­
trarily taken as a measure of school spirit). It is, 
on the other hand, evident that the law’s presence 
did effect the resentment of many students, espe­
cially fraternity men who, by nature, do not or­
dinarily enjoy being compelled to do anything.
For example, instead of attending the recent- 
dance, the majority of fraternity men stayed at 
home and studied or (as was usually the case) 
slightly overlooked the regulation. As a result, 
three fraternities are now on social probation be­
cause they had too much fraternity spirit and not 
enough school spirit. The very words, “school 
spirit,” would seem to include fraternity spirit,
for it cannot be denied that fraternities are included 
in the school system.
sburgh. Pa.. I 
“«i of postage f 
Member of ti 
Represented 
I is her« reprew 
year.
cond class matter on October 4, 1907. at the Post Office at
nder act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rovided for in the act of February 28, 1925. 
s Associated Collegiate Press.
oi national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College 
itative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.10
Thus it appears that, although the intentions 
of those responsible for enacting the Fraternity Bar 
Rule are entirely commendable, the choice of 
method was poor. It is not for me to suggest an 
alternate method, but, rather, to point out the 
need for such an alternative.
—Louis C. Marquet, 
Physics ’58.
Inquiring Reporter—
Bettering Homecoming
By A1 Federowicz
This week the TARTAN’S Roving Reporter un­
dertook finding out how a random sampling of the 
student body feels about the up and coming event 
of Homecoming. Comments on methods of improv­
ing the existing program were especially sought. 
The results of this search are written below.
Werner Strauss, Sophomore Metallurgist—I feel 
that the Homecoming weekend program should 
not be divided so categorically into alumni and stu­
dent events. I think that a program containing 
more events common to both student and alumni 
bodies would further the understanding an inter­
ests between the two groups. I do not think the 
fraternities are going overboard in the time, effort, 
and money they are putting into the displays con­
sidering that they are one of the major attractions 
of the weekend and that most of the returning 
alumni are fraternity men.
John Leonard, Junior Physicist—With regard to 
Homecoming and especially with regard to the let­
ter published in the Tartan last week, I would like 
to say that I approve of the drama department’s 
attitude in putting on performances during Home­
coming. Were I an alumnus, I would appreciate 
seeing what the department was doing.
Dale Pfremmer, Senior Mechanical—I think that 
Homecoming should be just as interesting an event 
as Spring Carnival or any other for that matter. 
Although the Homecoming efforts of the fraterni­
ties are costly and time consuming, it seems that 
they are the only way to make the event a real 
pleasure for the returning alumni. I feel that 
Homecoming can only be as good as the attitude 
of the students towards it. Perhaps more stress on 
the attendance at the Homecoming dance and the 
game would help bolster the interest in Home­
coming as an all school function.
Claude Gibble, Senior Electrical—In general for 
almost any event around campus I have noticed a 
lack of eye-catching advertising. Certainly, many 
of the events during Homecoming—namely, the 
Homecoming queen—should be played up much 
more and thus a greater interest in the event would 
be stimulated within the student body. I think that 
the Homecoming queen is the greatest attraction 
which draws the alumni back and it could cer­
tainly be played up more.
Hank Doney, Junior Metallurgist—It appears to 
me that the crux of the problem is a lack of school 
spirit, a solution to which is not immediately ap­
parent. To non-fraternity men, and in particular 
commuters, Homecoming means practically nothing, 
and to fraternity men it means only a long week­
end with several parties.
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis De La Macorra
With this article begins a new series of weekly 
writings in which will be included odds and ends 
of news around campus.
We want to be the first to welcome back the 
alumni that will be here for the big weekend ...
We understand that WRCT has plans for a 
Homecoming stunt at the football game. This skit 
promises to be quite interesting. Carol Sampson, 
Mary Ellen Sharadin, Wes Kasonic, Ron Barron, 
Hilda Green, and several others are responsible, 
not forgetting of course, the energetic Sally Beltz.
This morning at 11:30, Mortar Board completed 
another conference for the orientation of freshman 
girls. It was arranged under the able direction oi 
Sylvia Fasick and with the help of all the mem­
bers of the senior girls honorary. Today’s par­
ticular program had a two-fold purpose: the fir^r* 
being to introduce the *freshmen girls to the many 
honoraries and activities which they can join. Some 
of these are the Cwens, Phi Tau Gamma, and the 
departmental clubs. The second purpose was to 
orientate the freshman girls in the correct type 
of dress for various social events such as a for­
mal dance, the symphony, a football game, and of 
course classes. _
It was too bad that Men’s Dorm Council could 
not arrange to have the mixer last Friday in Don- 
ner Hall lounge as planned. Quite a few girls were 
very disappointed. Dorm Council has already made 
the necessary arrangements to sponsor the mixer 
on Friday, October 28, immediately following the 
Pep Rally. This mixer provides a fine opportunity 
for the residents of the men’s and women’s dor­
mitories to get acquainted.
Facilitating this event will be the new snack 
bar which recently opened in the recreation room 
of Donner Hall. This new food service is being 
provided by Men’s Dorm Council to serve better 
the needs of the dormitory residents ...
And so for the present time I will just say hasta 
Ba vista and buena suerte...

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 18, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
Community Forum
Tonight, at 7:00 p.m., the first of the new Tech Com­
munity Forum series will be presented in PH 100. This 
program has been undertaken with the belief that a need 
existed for some sort of intellectual stimulation of Carnegie 
Tech students. There was found, to be no outlet for opinions 
or organized discussion of world affairs and problems on our 
campus. Now that someone has remedied the situation, it 
remains but for the students to, offer their • support.
We realize that Homecoming deadlines are breathing 
down our necks, but we hope that attendance at tonight’s 
meeting will be sufficient to reassure the sponsors that in» 
terest in such a program does exist.
Campus Fever
Homecoming weekend is that weekend set aside where the out 
of town alumni come home and the out of town students go home.* * *
Porter Hall 
make the grade.
that part of Administration Hall that didn’t
The house on the hill, beautiful Whitfield Hall, with its new 
regime, is now referred to as “The Station of the Czars.”
ADVENTURES IN SOCIAL SCIENCE: NO. I
"The proper study of mankind is man,” said Geoffrey Chaucer 
In his immortal Casey at the Bat, and I couldn’t agree more. 
In these tangled times it is particularly proper to study man — 
how he lives, how he functions, how he works. Accordingly, this 
eolumn, normally devoted to slapdash waggery, will from time 
to time turn a serious eye on the social sciences.
In making1 these occasional departures, I have the hearty ap­
proval of the makers of Philip fMorris Cigarettes, whose interest 
is not only in promoting the pleasure of young Americans by 
providing them with a gentle cigarette, matchlessly blended of 
vintage tobaccos, grown with loving care and harvested with 
tender mercy, then cured with compassionate patience and rolled 
into firm, tasty cylinders and brought to you in king size or 
regular, wrapped in fetching packages of lively crimson and 
pristine white, at prices that wreak no havoc on the most 
stringent of budgets; but who are equally concerned with 
broadening the minds and extending the intellectual vistas of 
«very college man and every college woman.
I, for one, am not unmoved by this great-heartedness in the 
r akers of Philip Morris, and though I know it is considered 
ehic these days to disparage one’s employer, I shall not. Indeed, 
I shall cry “Huzzah!” for the makers of Philip Morris. I shall 
ery “Huzzah!” and “Bon avpitit!” and “Stout Fellows!”
But I digress. For our first lesson in social science, let us turn 
to the study of economics, often called the queen of the social 
sciences. (Sociology is the king of the social sciences. Advertis­
ing is the jack.) Economics breaks down into two broad general 
classifications: 1) coins; 2) folding money. But before taking 
up these technical aspects, let us survey briefly the history of 
economics.
Economics was discovered by the Englishman, Adam Smith. 
He published his theories in 1778, but everybody giggled so hard 
that Smith, blushing hotly, gave up the whole thing and went 
into the cough drop business with his brother,
For long years after that, economics lay neglected while the 
world busied itself with other things, like the birth of Victor 
Hugo, the last days of Pompeii, and the Bunny Hug.
Then one day while flying a kite during a thunderstorm, the 
American Henry George (also called Thorstein Veblen) dis­
covered the law of diminishing returns, and then, boy, the fat 
was in the fire! Before you eould say “knife,” the Industrial 
Revolution was on! Mechanization and steam power resulted in 
prodigies of production. For example, a Welsh artisan named 
Dylan Sigafoos before the Industrial Revolution used to make 
horseshoes by hand at the rate of four a day. After the Indus­
trial Revolution, with the aid of a steam engine, Sigafoos was 
able to make entire horses.
^iûdfooÿ <7ble to entità kofSeS" •
And so it went—factories rising from the plains, cities bur­
geoning around the factories, transport and commerce keeping 
pace—until today, thanks to economics, we have smog, depres­
sions, and economics textbooks at $5.50. 'bul 8huim»n. i#ss
The makers of Philip Morri$, tcho bring you this eolumn, are no 
economists, hut they do understand supply and demand. You de­
mand gentle smoking pleasureJ ice supply the cigarette that has it— 
Philip Morris, of corris!
Letters—
A Dramat Speaks
Editor, the Tartan:
The “.professional attitude” which is demanded 
in the Department of Drama is more one of isola­
tion than of true professionalism. Isolationism and 
over-specializatjon is unhealthy to the individual 
a^an artist and as a person, because, art is an ex­
pression of all life—not the little bit of life that 
surrounds the individual, but the life that is the 
vast composite of human experience. Four years 
of living in too-highly specialized an environment 
produces not a well-rounded individual, developed 
in professional and personal stature, but a one­
dimensional person lacking in the frame of refer­
ence so vital to the artist.
Crew versus Homecoming is but a minor issue. 
All Drama students must be willing to make per­
sonal sacrifices in the pursuit of their profession. 
There must also be a feeling of dedication. I be­
lieve completely in this principle. However, I also 
feel that every individual must be a part of the 
environment in which he lives—and at present 
this campus is our environment. Therefore, we 
must be a part, an integral part, of this campus. 
I only ask that we be allowed to take advantage 
of the fact that our professional training is taking 
place in a university environment.
Signed,
A Drama Student.
Another View
Editor, the Tartan:
Jack Webb is- a stickler for facts—so am I! 
Have either Ed Feigenbaum or Dick Major the 
slightest idea of what really goes on in the drama 
department? Have they ever seen or heard any 
member of the drama faculty say that a student 
shouldn’t participate in campus activities—or else? 
Do our critics, Ed and Dick, know how much strenu­
ous work is required on the part of the students 
and faculty in order to present a successful pro­
duction? Are they aware of unemployment facing 
a drama student after graduation? Once a problem 
is done it’s done—but an actor or actress never 
reaches the point where he’s done.
If our critics had answers to thes questions I’m 
sure that their article would have never been 
written. Unfortunately they didn’t, and thus omit­
ted the facts; much to my displeasure a lid also Mr. 
Webb’s, who can’t catch a criminal unless he has 
facts!
Jack Shaheen 
Junior, Drama.
Little Quickies
By Joseph A. Szewc
I take back everything I said about apathy dy­
ing out on campus. Words hastily spoken are often 
untrue ... I still maintain that the Homecoming 
Queen will be elected for either her personality, 
popularity, beauty, or ability to play politics . . . 
This is the week the school treats its Alumni with 
friendliness and attempts to win them with the 
motto, “Loyalty, Fraternity, Philanthropy.” I hope 
they’re successful . . . Epigram of the week: Be­
fore marriage a man sighs for a home. After mar­
riage he still sighs, but for a different reason.
Open Letter Criticized
Editor, the Tartan:
It was with a certain sense of surprise that we 
found editorial support of the open letter written 
by Messrs. Major and Feigenbaum in the last issue 
of the Tartan. The surprise was generated for two 
reasons: first, our feeling that a journalist has a 
particular responsibility to think through all is­
sues before giving them editorial support; and sec­
ond, that newspapermen, whether in a large met­
ropolis or a small college, should be aware of the 
heterogeneity of his readers’ lives. It was with 
even more surprise that we greeted the drama 
department’s refusal of tickets for the performances 
of Friday and Saturday evenings, October 21 and 
22, by “request” of the Homecoming Committee. 
The coincidence of these two events is just enough 
to cause us to offer a few comments.
The objectives and methods of the Carnegie Plan 
offer an idealistic goal for making the “whole 
man.” But the Cai’negie Plan would fall down 
if it were to depend only upon the social rela­
tions sequence for a liberalizing influence. It is 
through such non-curricular events as the drama­
tic productions and the English Department’s lec­
ture series that we truly learn of and evaluate the 
diverse ideas of man.
One of the ideas (or agglomerate of ideas) that 
we reject is arbitrary decision and stifling of free 
choice. And this is the idea which is being project­
ed by the two young men who wrote the letter, 
by your editorial support of it, and by the Home­
coming Committee’s ban on tickets for the play 
(which may or may not have administrative sanc­
tion). Far from feeling that the Drama Depart­
ment has infringed on the life of the student and 
the campus, we feel that our being specifically 
excluded from a performance because of the Home­
coming Committee’s pressure is a decided infringe­
ment on our student freedom and is wholly un­
warranted.
Who are you to say just which activity consti­
tutes the “life of the campus and the life of the 
student” at any given time? By attending a per­
formance on the 21st we would miss a pledge com­
petition and the fraternities open houses, ne.ither of 
which we particularly wished to attend. And even 
if we had wished to attend “The Cocktail Party” 
on the 2nd, the night of the big dance, why should 
we not be allow'ed to? We have no argument with 
the person who wishes to become the “whole man” 
by dancing to Bill Brant’s orchestra, but we would 
prefer to spend our evening pondering T. S. Eliot.
What many otherwise-well-meaning persons fail 
to realize is that Tech is not a cloistered, ivory- 
towered country college. It is a university filled 
with a great divergence of interests and personali­
ties, not to mention ages and purses. No one group, 
however solidified or large, can delude itself that 
it alone knows the best interest of the campus 
or the individual students. Please let us choose 
for ourselves while there are still choices to be 
made.
Sincerely,
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Schall,
Chem. E. '58 and Library Grad.
It has been rumored by a rather unreliable 
source, that Skibo was formerly one of Pittsburgh's 
first steel mills . . . Some people may still argue 
that it is a steal mill.
Newhigh grade 
in shirts
By *ny test, this button-down 
Arrow shirt rates 100% ... from the 
exact Hair of its medium-spread collar 
and lustrous fabric to its rich 
window-pane checks and solid colors 
. . . all-but-endless wear and 
*titch-for-stitch value.
Question: why not pick up a few right away? 
Checks and solids in broadcloth, $5.00; 
white, $3.95.
Oxford, white and Colors, $5.00.
’IROIV-+-
-first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 18, 1995
Tartans Score Decisive 
Victory Over Dickinson
By Jim Lacey
The Carnegie Tech Tartans 
swept to their second straight 
victory in three starts as they 
routed the Dickinson Red Devils,
2 -0, in the first meeting between j 
the two teams at Biddle Field in 
Carlisle, Pennsylvania.
Tech took the ball on their own . 
48 after a punt and drove for the j 
score in four plays. Freshman Bill j 
Adams, subbing for the slightly j 
injured John Tucci, tossed an j 
aerial from the Dickinson 25 to j 
“Jeep” Myers who eluded all the [ 
would-be tacklers and ran into the ; 
end zone for the first TD of the i 
day. Tom Briner ran for the extra j 
point because of a bad pass from 
center. All this came with just a 
few minutes of the game gone.
19-0 At Half
Tech scored again early in the 
second period when Briner re­
turned a Dickinson punt from his 
own 32 to Dickinson’s 34. Then 
Adams wasted no time and flipped 
a perfect pass to Larry Cassett, 
who hauled it in on the 15 and ran 
the remaining distance to paydirt. 
Roy DeVries’ kick was wide. The 
Tartans added another marker be­
fore the half ended. Again the 
Adams to Cassett pass combination 
clicked as they connected on a 
fourth down and goal to go from 
the 13. Cassett took the heave all 
alone in the end zone. Frank 
Smith’s try for extra-point was 
blocked.
Tech scored again just after the 
fourth stanza began. The Scots 
took a punt on their own 17.
Half-back Briner rounds end for a gain 
way in last Saturday’s tilt with Dickinson.
54 yards from his own 20 to the 
Tech 26. A fourth down despera­
tion play failed as the Tartans 
held on their own 20. From then 
on the Red Devils could not get 
very m uch of an attack going. 
Tech threatened all day, but was 
thwarted a few times by their own 
fumbles, and penalties on crucial 
down situations. Tech was even 
threatening on the Dickinson 6 as 
the clock ran out.
Tech led in practically every 
statistic. The one really bright spot
was Tech’s 9 of 18 pass comple- 
Briner moved it to the 24, Myers j tions. Tech was penalized a total
carried it to the 34. Then came the 
most spectacular play of the day. 
It started like an ordinary hand- 
off from Tucci to Briner, but Tucci 
trailed the play and just as Briner 
went down he Slipped to Tucci
of 95 yards compared to only 10 
for Dickinson. This fact alone 
helped keep the score down.
This week Tech returns home 
after two successful road games to 
meet the Temple Owls in a re-
who was off and running for pay- newal of a series that terminated 
dirt. De Vries added the extra- ^in 1939. Tech holds the edge with
point to give the verdict to Tech, 
26-0.
Fifty Percent Pass Completion
The Red Devils threatened only 
once when Joe Donatelli galloped
five victories to three for Temple 
and one tie. This game will be part 
of the week-end Homecoming fes­
tivities and will start at 2:00 p.m. 
at Forbes Field.
Statistics
CARNEGIEDICKINSON
Team
Carnegie Tech
Baylor
Army
Bucknell
Yale
U. of California 
Pittsburgh 
Georgia Tech 
Harvard 
Michigan State 
U.C.L.A 
Minnesota 
Notre Dame 
Navy
West Virginia
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
For Games on October 22, 1955 
ècore TeamScore
Temple
Texas A&M
Columbia
Lafayette
Colgate
So. California
Duke
Florida State
Dartmouth
Illinois
Iowa
Michigan
Purdue
Pennsylvania
Penn State
NAME....................................................DEPT....................CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
202Yards gained rushing.. 154
IS.. 10
18. . 23
96
134. .. Yards gained passing ... 57
2.. .Passes intercepted by .137...Yards on punt returns.. . 9217. .Yards on kickoff returns.. 67
95... Yards lost on penalties .:. 10Carnegie Tech .. 7 12 0 7—26
Dickison ...................0 0 0 0— 0
Touchdowns: Cassett 2, Myers, Tucci. 
Points After Touchdown: Adams (run), 
DeVries (placement).
Sargent Wins 
On Points
As the weekend drew to a close 
and the Sunday papers brought 
their boldest type to announce the 
many upsets across the continent, 
members of the sports staff were 
busy trying to find a winner for 
this week’s footbal contest.
With so many upsets on the 
board we were unable to find a 
perfect card but did arrive at two 
who guessed all but four games
A 1956 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTAN’S weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day's games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the finalN score 
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartaa through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.6. Winner of each week’s contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re­deemable at the time of publication.
correctly. The first place was then 
determined by point spreads and 
cur winner turned out to be Pete 
Sargent, a freshman in the drama 
department. However, very close 
in point spread also was Barb 
Kinner, a Maggie Murph majoring 
in foods and nutrition. Both Pete 
and Barb missed Army-Syracuse; 
Georgia Tech - Auburn ; Notre 
Dame-Michigan State; and 
Princeton-Colgate.
A certificate for the 1956 Thistle 
will be presented to the winner of 
the contest by the Tartan Sports 
Editor as soon as arrangements are 
completed.
Manager’s Club 
Elects Bowen
At a meetiing of the Managers' 
Club Tuesday, Bruce Bowen of 
Delta Tau Delta was elected presi­
dent. Bruce heads the officers fol­
lowed by Ron Anjard, Newman 
Club, and John Croy, Alpha Tau 
Omega, who are vice president and 
secretary - treasurer respectively. 
Although they were elected the 
preceding week, the election for 
president was held off a week due 
to controversy among the mem­
bers of the Managers’ Club.
— YOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE! -------------------------------------------------------------------
WIN STON «fe jthe. bock ou. ^Wor!
WINSTON
tU, eaA(j-djiMàiq
oiqcuMt !
¦ King-size Winston is the filter brand that’s making cigarette history.
College to college, coast to coast, the chorus is the same: “Winston tastes good — 
like a cigarette should!" The rich flavor really comes through to you because 
Winston’s exclusive filter works so effectively. Try Winston — you’ll see!

---------------------------------------------------

JAMES H. SWEENEY joined G.E. in 1941 after graduating with a B.S. de*free in E.E. from the University of 'ennsylvania. During World War II he served four years with the Army.
T-M Board 
Elections Held
The Intramural Board has elect­
ed Leb Brown, Sigma Nu, presi­
dent for the coming term. The 
other officers named were: Bill 
Branscome, Delta Upsilon, vice 
president; and Mike Pascarella, 
Kappa Sigma, secretary-treasurer.
The Intramural Board, which is 
the governing body of the intra­
mural program, will again consist 
of 13 members; six from the fra­
ternities, three from the dormi­
tories, three from the independents, 
and one from the Managers’ Club.
In addition to Brown, Pasca­
rella, and Branscome, this year’s 
members are Bob Koural, Theta 
Xi, Herb Kreindler, Tau Delta Phi, 
Earl Tanner, Alpha Tau Omega, 
Bruce Bowen, Delta Tau Delta, and 
James Seward, Beta Theta Pi. The 
independents are David Tersis, 
EEME, Ron Anjard, Newman and 
Bill Gray, ASCE.
race into a three way tie between 
these three teams. However, a 
PK “A” win over SAE would al­
most insure them of the league 
championship. KS they would play 
an unimpressive ATO “B” and a 
“hot and cold” BSR team.
There should be a word said 
about the officiating in the intra­
mural football leagues. In gen­
eral, the refereeing is satisfactory, 
but there are instances when the 
officiating is deplorable. The TDP- 
TX contest, protested by TDP, will 
be replayed in its entirety. The 
game was protested because of the 
referee’s incorrect interpretation 
of the rules. When TX played 
DTD, the Delts were repeatedly 
penalized for unnecessary rough­
ness. This is the first time, to the 
writer’s knowledge, that a smaller 
team got rough with a bigger one. 
It seems, in some cases, that the 
referees either don’t know the 
rules or are inclined to be partial 
towards one of the teams. The 
intramural board should investi-
Intramural football was thrown for a loss by the weather last 
week, as rain caused the postponement of last Thursday’s and Fri­
day’s games. The games played on Friday, October 7, that were 
rained out in the third quarter will be played again from their be­
ginning. All these postponed en-4- 
gagements are tenatively resched­
uled for t| e last three days of the 
I.M. Football Season, October 26,
27, 28.
Tartan League
Delta Tau Delta remained un­
defeated in the Tartan League 
play last week. They defeated TX 
in their only game last week. The 
Delts scored early and held off a 
last minute TX drive, winning 22- 
19. ATO “A”, which lost to the 
Delts 30-25 previously in a hard 
fought contest, won two games, 
defeating the Newman Club 21-12 
and the Obelisks 33-17. ATO is 
scheduled to play TX, while the 
Delts must play a weak Tau Delt 
aggregation and the Pi KA crew.
Unless the Delts completely lose 
their winning form, they will fin­
ish in first place, undefeated, with 
last year’s champs, ATO, in second 
place.
Kiltie League
Undefeated KS, showing cham­
pionship form, scored the first 
three times they had posession of 
the ball, using a total of four plays, 
and went on to whip Citcom 41-6.
KS also defeated the absent EEME 
t squad by a forfeit. This is the third 
game for EEME and their third 
loss by forfeit. These boys don’t 
- seem interested in playing football.
In the only other game in the 
Kiltie League, SN defeated the 
previously undefeated Grads 24-7.
KS must play the Grads and un­
less these old timers come up with 
a secret weapon, KS will remain 
undefeated and thereby become 
League champions.
Skibo League
The Skibo League boasts of two 
undefeated teams, PK “A” and 
SAE, both with 3-0 records. DU, 
which was previously undefeated, 
lost to a fine PK “A” crew 20-19 
in overtime. At the end of regu­
lation time, the teams were tied at 
19-19. According to the intramural 
regulations, the teams were al­
lowed four plays each. These plays 
were to be run alternately; PK 
would take possession for one play 
and then DU would use a play.
The team that scored or advanced 
the ball toward the opposition’s 
goal would win the game. PK 
managed to advance the pigskin 
10 yards toward the DU goal to 
win the game. It was a tough loss 
for DU, but they have not been 
eliminated from the league race, 
as SAE plays PK “A” and DU 
over SAE would throw' the league
Thistle
The 1955 Thistle will again 
be distributed 11:30-1:30 in 
Skibo this Thursday. You 
may also order a 1956 Thistle 
at that time.
jgate the officiating situation com- j
pletely and use only impartial
officials and referees who have a
knowledge of the rulesof the
games.
Tartan League
DTD....................................4 0
ATO “A”............................4 . 1
PKA................................1 1
Obelisks ............................1 2
Newman ...........................1 3TDP ....................................0 2
TX ......................................0 2
Skibo League
PK “A”..............................3 0
SAE ....................................3 0DU ......................................4 1
BSR ....................................1 2
ATO “B”............................0 2
Static Charges ..................0 3ASCE ..............................0 3
AK/C: fot /SHO£, ¿OOKW&r ME'M?
zur //rsz/T
Kiltie League
KS ...................................... 5
SN ...................................... 3
Grads.................................. 2
BTP ... 
Citcom . 
PK “B” 
EEME .
What young people are doing at General Electric
Co-Rec Volleyball
There will be no games 
played Thursday, October 20. 
They will be postponed until 
the following week.
Young engineer 
pioneers in design 
and sales of new 
tiny transistors
The germanium transistor—some smaller 
than the eraser end of a pencil and able to 
operate on a few thousandths of a watt 
—is probably one of the most promising 
developments in the electronics*field today. 
It opens the way to new midget radios, TV 
sets flat enough to hang on a wall and many 
other exciting possibilities.
One of the men who helped design and 
perfect these tiny transistors—and the man 
who is now head of sales for all General 
Electric germanium products—is James H. 
Sweeney, Manager — Marketing, Semicon­
ductor Products Department.
Sweeney’s Work Interesting, Vital
As early as 1948, Sweeney was head of a 
group that, studied the design and possible 
uses of germanium products. He gained 
national recognition for his work in devel­
oping and introducing these products to 
other industries, and when a new Semi­
conductor Products Department was formed 
in 1953, Sweeney was a natural choice for 
the job of marketing these products.
25,000 College Graduates at General Electric
When Sweeney came to General Electric in 
1941, he worked in many different depart­
ments until he finally found the work he 
wanted to do. Like Sweeney, each of the 
25,000 college-graduate employees is given 
the chance to grow, to find the work he does 
best, and to realize his full potential. For 
General Electric has long believed this: 
When fresh young minds are given the free­
dom to make progress, everybody benefits 
•—the individual, the company, the country.
Progress Is Our Most Important Product
GENERAL (Ü) ELECTRIC
Intramural Championship 
Races Approaching Finale
Gerald Piffler

---------------------------------------------------

Working engineers of P & W A, 
waiting for classes to begin 
at R.P.f.'s new graduate center. 
Courses include Aeronautical Engineering, 
Physics, Mathematics, 
Nad ear Technology, 
Management Training,
LORD WEST
The first name in quality formais
LORD WEST
lilorad by Weif Mill 
OF St., New York FF, N Y
Page 10—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 18, 1955
Harriers Spark, Beal West 
Virginia And Slippery Rock
Harriers Beat Southern Champs* 
Conquer Local Rivals Easily
After a shaky starter with £he Covies of Geneva, the thinclads 
of Coach Bob Carman bounced back in big style by downing mighty 
West Virginia on the Mountaineers’ home course and then easily 
subduing the teachers from Slippery Rock to establish a three wins 
one loss record for the early sea-#-------------------------------------------
son.
Big gun for the Plaid has been 
tall, lanky Lawrence Frederick 
Bryant, a junior metallurgical en­
gineer from Monaca, Pa. Follow­
ing Lar across the tape in both 
meets has been his twin brother, 
Bill. Both were high school stand­
outs in the mile and half mile 
during their stay at Monaca Sen­
ior High. This is bill’s second sea­
son at the overdistance grind while 
Larry is a newcomer to the hill 
and dale sport.
Coming up hard on the Bryants, 
have been two promising fresh­
men, both from Pittsburgh. One is 
Bill Whitman, a product of the 
city’s Central Catholic High School, 
while the other is Eric “Ottlinck” 
Ottervik, a Westinghouse Scholar­
ship boy from nearby East Mc­
Keesport. These two lads have 
blossomed since .the Geneva meet 
and are the big reason that Tech 
has come into its own once again.
In the West Virginia meet, 
Chris Cascay, sensational mile star 
for the Mountaineers led the field 
to the finish line, but from that 
point on, Tech placed second, 
third, fourth, and sixth to capture 
team honors by 24-32, (in cross­
country low score wins). The 
Morgantown course was far re­
moved from Tech’s hilly, murder­
ous course. Their course covered 
4.2 miles of more or less level golf 
course, and offered little challenge 
to thé Tartans. West Va. won last 
year’s Southern Conference Cham­
pionship.
Friday proved to be the Skibo’s 
day as they swept the first four 
positions before a Slippery Rock 
harrier could make the finish. It 
was an easy victory for the Tech 
lads, they had in mind a defeat 
suffered last year on Slippery 
Rock hurricane drenched course.
Captain Jim Flynn, an architect 
sub-senior from Wilkinsburg, and 
Coach Carman have done a great 
job in making the team a fine unit. 
Competition among the first seven 
men has been keen with Roy 
Whitney and Tom Harder, both 
Swissvale lads, running far ahead 
of the opposition and displacing 
top performers from West Virginia 
and Slippery Rock. Tom Harder 
injured his leg prior to the Slip­
pery Rock contest and Coach Car­
man fears his services may be 
missed for the big Tri-State meet 
November 4. Replacements for 
Tom will be hard to find since 
after the first seven, Coach Car­
man has a crew of inexperienced 
freshmen and upperclassmen that 
have been erratic in their per-
lor ntmt of 
nearest retailer md Ire« formalJrew chart, writ#«*
the
authentic 
University 
model 
tuxedo.. 
now in 
brand 
JET
BLACK and
MIBNITE
BLUE
lightweight
year-round
fatrics
natural 
thoulders, 
narrow 
shawl lapel, 
flap pockets, 
center vent, 
nonpleated 
trousers
formance, with many on the dis­
abled list.
Every good team needs a man­
ager of equal caliber and this year 
the thinclads are administered by 
a couple of such managers. They 
are Andy Regal, a freshman en­
gineer and Jay Early, a sophomore 
management. Managers play a big 
and unheralded part in any teams 
success. These lads are doing a fine 
job making cross-country running 
a pleasure.
On Tuesday, the harriers travel 
to Cleveland to face Case Tech 
while on Saturday, Homecoming' 
morning, they face the neighbors 
across the gully in the tall granite 
building at the Schenley Park 
course. Both meets will offer 
plenty of excitement for the Tar­
tans. If the' Tartans can get past 
these two meets unmarred, they 
will be assured of their eighth 
consecutive winning season.
Larry and Bill Bryant, Tech har­
riers, leading Slippery Rock’s Win 
Fausset down Cinder Hill in Schen­
ley Park.
Co-Rec Volleyball 
Gets Fast Start
After the first week’s play the 
Dorm A-Obelisks team is on top 
of League I due to their close 
wins over the Independents-DTD 
and KAT-BSR. In League I’s other 
games KKG-DU was beaten by 
Commuters-SAE and also by In- < 
dependents-DTD.
ChiO-PK are on top of League II 
because of their wins over DDD- 
BTP and DG-PKA. In the only 
other game Dorm A-ATO beat DG- 
PKA.
Standings:
League I
Dorm A-Obelisks ............ 2 t>
Commuters-SAE ............ 1 0
Independents-DTD ........ 1 1
KAT-BSR.......................... 0 1/
KKG-DU .......................... 0 2
League II
Chi O-PK.......................... 2 0
Dorm B-ATO .................. 1 0
DDD-BTP ........................ 0 1
DG-PKA .......................... 0 2
What's doing
at Pratt £ Whitney Aircraft
Here's something 
unique in education.
Near the Pratt & Whitney 
Aircraft plant in East Hart­
ford, Conn., a full-fledged 
graduate center was estab­
lished this fall by Renssalaer 
Polytechnic Institute. Lo­
cated 115 miles from R.P.I.’s 
home campus in upper New 
York State, the new graduate 
facilities will enable working 
engineers from Pratt & Whit­
ney Aircraft and other com­
panies in the Hartford area 
to* continue their studies. 
Without interrupting normal 
employment, it will be pos­
sible for students to obtain 
advanced degrees in special­
ized fields from the nation’s 
oldest engineering college.
Designed to raise the level 
of knowledge and to broaden 
the base from which ad­
vanced research can be ap­
proached, this entire pro­
gram will simultaneously lead 
enrolled engineers to greater 
achievement in their careers.
First 702 Computer in East. Just installed, 
this advanced I.B.M. computer joins 
earlier electronic marvels that played a 
vital role in the development of Pratt 
& Whitney Aircraft’s famed J -57 jet engine.
Newest Supersonic Fighter. The Chance 
Vought F8U, latest in a growing group 
of military aircraft to fly faster than 
sound. Like most other record-breakers, 
it is powered by a P & W A J-57 turbojet.
PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT
DIVISION OP UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION • EAST HARTFORD 8, CONNECTICUT
Last Wasp Major, most powerful piston en­
gine ever developed, is shipped by P&WA. 
This marks the end of an era as turbo­
jets take over as the source of power for 
heavy bombers, transports and tankers.
World’s foremost 
designer and 
builder of 
aircraft engines
MmWÊKÉÊBÊÊÊ

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 18 ,1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 11
CARNEGJtv/i .
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ........................................................................................ Dolores Neff
Reporters ........ John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy,
Emily Muhfc, Chuck La bee
ES Newman Club Hears Father 
Berkmyer; Roast Is Planned
The evening school Newman Club held their monthly meeting 
on Sunday, October 9, at the Carnegie Union. Despite the fact that 
there was a PIFSCO picnic the same day, it was very gratifying to 
see so many of the members present. Following a brief business
meeting, Father Berkmyer, Club ?-------------------------------------------------
Chaplain, spoke to the group on 
some of the questions that a Cath­
olic person is liable to run up 
against during his life. Many 
questions were asked after the talk 
and, if Fr. Berkmyer had not had 
to leave early, he would probably 
have been there all night just 
answering questions.
As October is the month of 
pumpkins, spooks, witches riding 
their brooms, cider and donuts, 
the main dining room at the Un­
ion was decked out in it’s Hal-1 
loweeniest outfit. Many people 
gathered about the cider and do­
nut table while others retired to 
the game room for a game of 
Hearts.
Many People
Some of the members present 
were: Bill and Dolores Groll, Anna 
Mae Legosh, Ewald Gondolf, Emi 
ily Muhic, Walt Bachmayer, Paul 
Mikus, Ed Vandergrift, Ed Man- 
derfield, Chuck Labee, Mike Mc­
Ginnis, Dolores Neff, and John 
Van Holt.
The next meeting will be held 
on November 13, 7:30 p.m. at the 
Carnegie Union. The speaker will 
be Msgr. Wm. G. Connare who 
will speak on the “Propagation of 
the Faith.” For the social part of 
the meeting, it is planned to have 
a weiner roast in the backyard 
of the. Union. If the weather does 
not permit, the roast will be held 
inside.
We would like to see more of 
our new members show up for the 
next meeting. What has happen­
ed to the enthusiasm everyone 
showed at registration?
Carnegie Plaid 
Welcomes Students 
To Join The Staff
Here is your opportunity to 
prove your ability in expressing 
your ideas to others. A position 
on the staff of your evening school 
newspaper, The Plaid, will not 
only add to your personal satis­
faction of contributing to a 
worth-while cause, but it gives 
you the opportunity of making 
friends with a swell group of girls 
and fellows. Just drop into the 
Plaid office on the third floor of 
the Carnegie Union any Friday 
evening after 7:00 p.m. or write 
to your editor in care of Box 256.
Here is an easy way to earn 
points toward a coveted Insignia 
Award. So get out your paper and 
pencil right now and write to your 
editor.
Pi Tau Sigma, national me- 
chancila engineering fraternity, 
was established on Tech’s cam­
pus in 1930.
Chance To Become 
Acquainted Given 
By ES Council
Some of you new and old stu­
dents now registered in evening 
school may have heard a lot of 
talk from fellow classmates and 
read previous articles on this page 
pertaining to Evening Student 
Council and its many activities. 
Some of you may also have won­
dered about this organization and 
how one becomes a member.
As you read last week, Council 
is anxious to take on new mem­
bers. If you are at all interested, 
please contact some member of 
Council or write to your Plaid 
Editor, Tech Box 256, We will be 
glad to give you any information 
you may wish.
Thanks to Walt Bachmayer and 
Bill Bond for so quickly respond­
ing to last week’s plea. May we 
have more this week?
In brief, Council sponsors many 
social affairs on campus which are 
not only fun to attend but also 
are fun to work for* Workers 
have a chance to meet the people 
behind all these activities spon­
sored for the benefit of all eve­
ning students. We hope to hear 
from you in the very near future.
Why not come out and help 
decorate Thistle Hall for the 
Square Dance on October 29 
Doors will be open to all helpers 
from noon on. It’s- a wonderful 
way to get acquainted. «
ES Student Council 
Will Miss Gini Ross, 
Now In Day School
Evening Student Council some­
how won’t be the same. One of 
Council’s most active members, 
Gini Ross, has transferred to day 
school and is no longer eligible 
to maintain membership in Coun­
cil.
During Gini’s attendance in 
Evening School, she was known 
to be one of the most reliable and 
vigorous exponents of a truly ac­
tive Evening School social calen­
dar.
Among her notable achieve­
ments have been: president of Phi 
Gamma Pi Sorority (1954), Stu­
dent Council social chairman (2 
years), and three consecutive In­
signia Award keys for extra cur­
ricular activities.
We know that Gini will continue 
to be a driving force in all her 
day school activities. Keep them 
all “on their toes”, Gini. ,
Super
Snooper
While no one was looking, Bill 
Bond, graduate student of metalr 
lurgy, traded in his 1955 ‘fire en­
gine red’ Ford Thunder Bird for 
a 1955 ‘luscious blue’ Oldsmobile 
“98”. The ‘Bird’ was only a baby 
—just 3 weeks old. It had been 
rumored about that there was a 
collection being taken to buy Bill 
a siren and bell for the Bird. In­
stead, Bill thought that a TV set 
could be bought for the “98”. 
That’s about the only thing it 
doesn’t havel
Automobiles today are su­
perior to most people; they 
can shift for themselves
Overheard at Skibo: John Sen- 
ko, who is a day student but likes 
Skibo food so well that he eats his 
dinners there, used to be a very 
conceited boy. When he finally 
came to a realization of this fact, 
he began having quite lengthy 
conferences in the psychology de­
partment, and he’s now a changed 
boy. Now he’s perfect”
“No opportunity is ever 
lost; the other fellow takes 
those you miss.”
When your Super Snooper be­
comes lazy, place a wire recorder 
under the tables at Skibo. Sure 
could prove interesting. Leave it 
to Ralph to come up with a sug­
gestion like that.
“Science has been producing 
so many substitutes recently, 
that it’s hard to remember 
just what it was we needed in 
the first place.”
From here on, Bill Callendar 
will keep his eyes on his brief 
case at Skibo and not on his food. 
It seems that Alfred Sisco and 
Bill have almost identical brief 
cases. You can just imagine what 
happened. A1 picked up Bill’s 
case and Bill was nearly frantic. 
A quick search of the other case 
gave Bill the name and then the 
rest was easy. Peace and quiet 
again reigns at Skibo!
“Man: the only animal that 
eats when he is not hungry 
and drinks when he is not 
thirsty.**
BIG SALE!! A recent report 
from India discloses a 50% drop 
in the prices of elephants—(now 
only $300-400 each.) Hurry, get 
your order in now!
“The right way to kill time 
is to work it to death.”
Marilyn Darrah, Evening Stu­
dent Council Social Chairman, 
has been in the hospital for a mi­
nor operation. Everyone on Stu­
dent Council wishes her a speedy 
recovery.
"You can’t have roses in the 
mind unless you first plant the 
seed."
Little Man On Campusby Bibler
*600D GRIEF U/EU HIM 6ET A SEAJ-1FOK60T ASSÎM&.Y TWS mOD*
An Engineer
(To those of you are new in 
the engineering school this year, 
the follovoing is a glimpse into 
your future!)
An engineer is a person who 
passes as an exacting expert on 
the basis of being able to turn 
out with prolific fortitude infinite 
strings of incomprehensible for­
mulas calculated with micromatic 
precision from vague assumptions 
which are based on debatable 
figures taken from inconclusive 
experiments carried out with in­
struments of problematical accur­
acy by persons of doubtful reli­
ability and questionable mentality 
for the avowed purpose of an­
noying and confounding a hopeless 
chimerical group of fanatics re­
ferred to all too frequently as 
engineers.
Council Tea
Attention, all women eve- 
ing students! On Sunday af­
ternoon, October 30, at 2:00 
p.m., there is to be a Student 
Council tea to which you are 
all invited. Phi Gamma Pi 
girls are hostesses for this tea 
and they are planning some 
very nice entertainment for 
the afternoon.
Rebels
We noticed in TV Guide this 
week that there’s now a Dixie 
version of the $64,000 Question. 
They give away $64,000 in Con­
federate money and a certificate 
guaranteeing that the South shall 
rise again.
"the
U9W
refresh^eot
Pepsi-Cel» Metropolitan BottEag C«-, Pittsburgh 1#, P».
WI PREDICT: f98S's most infuriating magaxlnt arflels will be
“THE NATURAL SUPERIORITY 
OF IVY LEAGUE MEN”
in November HOLIDAY magazine
... and that its noted author, Henry Morton Robinson (Columbia ’23) will be man most 
burned in effigy on non-Ivy campuses this fall! It’s guaranteed to enrage the letter men 
of ‘ Moline Subnormal” and “Turpentine Tech”... redden the faces of state universities’ 
“professorlings” (that’s what Robinson calls ’em) ... wound the tender feelings of every 
drum majorette in America.
You 11 smoulder at Robinson’s gibes at courses in chain-store management and em­
balming! Bum at his references to state universities as “educational rabbit warrens.* 
Explode at his views on mass education for the “denizens of Outer Mediocrity.” It’s on# 
of a trio of provocative articles on Ivy League men, social life, sports. Don’t miss itl
November HOLIDAY —now on your newsstand!
A CURTIS MAGAZINE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 18, 1955*
Smoke Tomorrow's 
better cigarette111 
jB^Tjoday-
PUT A
IN YOUR
SMOKING!
Homecoming Program
Friday, October 21
* 1:30—Carnegie Day .................................................... Gymnasium
3:00—Varsity Varieties  ............  Morewood Recreation Room
* 4:00—Homecoming Reception and Tea ... Carnegie Union
* 6:00—Homecoming Dinner ........................ Hotel Webster Hall
7:00—Judging of Fraternity Displays .......... Morewood Area
7:30—Pep Rally and Pledge Competition ............... Tech Bowl
8:30—Open House.................................................. All Fraternities
Saturday, October 22
* 9:00—Registration of Alumni.....................Carnegie Union
* 9:00—Alumni Breakfast ........................ Morewood Gardens
?10:30—Dean's Question Box ...................................... All Schools
*12:00—Homecoming Luncheon  ................Gymnasium
2:00—Carnegie Tech vs. Temple ........................ Forbes Field
* 4:30—Fifth Quarter Cocktail Party .. Schenley Park Hotel
* 6:30—Dinner Dance .............................. Schenley Park Hotel
9:00—Homecoming Dance ......................................... Gymnasium
11:00—Awarding of Trophies.............................................................‘.......... Gymnasium
1:00—Fraternity Breakfasts ........................ Fraternity Houses
Sunday, October 23
2—4—Open House ........................................ Morewood Gardens
?Alumni Activities
Pledges-
[Continued from page 2] 
Richard Werner, Don Ramey, Jack 
Probst.
Social Member: Charles Schaul.
Phi Kappa: J. Backmann, J. 
Hvizdos, J. Smeets, M. Vertino, A. 
Pettito, S. Kissell, J. Zarnick.
Pi Kappa Alpha: Bryan Werner, 
Norman Neddermeyer, Ivan Suth­
erland, Robert Harrington, Frank 
Neubauer, Paul Guilfoyle.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon:: James Al­
lison, James Beckley, Gardiner 
Brower, Dave Hoffman, Joe Mor­
gan, Jan Novak, Phil Rosi, George 
Smith, Joe Specht, Robert Stayer.
Social Member: Danny Cox.
Sigma Nu: Ross Engleman, Frank 
Spriggs, Dick Wiley, Tom Evans.
Tau Delta Phi: Louis Allahut, 
Lee Dolby, Ed Lukasik, Bill Shop- 
sin.
Theta Xi: Henry Cummings, Bob 
Murphy, Don Nevins, Bill Osborne, 
Joe Smith, Pete Tannen, Larry 
Turner, Frank Drake.
Displays—
[Continued from pagt 1] 
owls will be punished in a rock. 
Flashing lights will offset the ac­
tion in color. Last year, the DU's 
copped third place.
Kappa Sigma — The story of 
Casey Jones will come to life as 
the Kappa Sigs unveil the fruits 
of their labors. Casey will run his 
trainload of alumni* dressed as 
angels, to the promised land. A 
red-devil Temple owl will bar the 
track, but “Casey mows ’em 
down!” The pearly gates will wel­
come the weary band to their 
reward.
Phi Kappa—Joe Magerac, the 
legendary symbol of the steel in­
dustry, will be the Phi Kap’s offer­
ing. Joe, whose feats include oond- 
ing steel bars, will demonstrate 
his strength as Temple yields to 
Tech. Of all the themes, Joe Mag- 
erac is the lone local “Yankee 
Yarn.”
Pi Kappa Alpha—The old sea
chanteys will come to mind as 
Tech whales Temple. Moby Dick is 
the theme of PiKA this year and 
it promises to be a monstrous un­
dertaking. The actual display and 
special effects are secret, but this 
only serves to add to the mystery. 
Only Friday night will offer the 
solution.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—The men 
of SAE have chosen Paul Bunyan 
as their topic. Pancakes will be 
cooking on a large griddle as the 
brawny lumberjack batters Tem­
ple. The facts behind the special 
effects are still hidden, but Friday 
night will enlighten all.
Sigma Nu—As night falls on 
Friday, everyone will be wide­
awake—everyone, that is, but Rip 
Van Winkle. Rip will be asleep, 
but the Sigma Nu’s will reveal his 
dream. The sequence will show 
the lengendary little Dutchmen 
playing bowls just as Tech bowls 
over Temple. Special effects will 
play an import..t role in the 
display, but what this effect is 
will not be told until Friday night. 
The display is unique in that 
there will be no moving parts.
Tau Delta Phi—Undoubtedly, the 
longest display on th? campus will 
be the Tau Delt entry. The main 
feature of this year’s structure 
will be a 100 foot representation 
of the Great Train Robbery. The 
background will be a mountainous 
terrain where Tech will steal the 
victory train.
Theta Xi — A giant showboat, 
representative of the famous in­
stitution in American history, will 
loom over the TX lawn. The dis­
play will feature Captain Eddie’s 
Showboat presenting a Saturday 
matinee performance of “The 
Courtship of Victory.” Last year, 
Theta Xi won second place and 
this year’s entry will certainly 
give the other fraternities a race 
for the prize.
Who will emerge the victor? 
That is a question that only time 
and the judges can tell. The time 
will be at 11:00 p.m. on Saturday 
night. The awards will be pre­
sented at the annual Homecoming 
Dance. The judging will be done 
at 7:00 p.m. sharp on Friday night. 
This will allow ample time for 
darkness to set in so that the com­
plete display can be seen clearly.
This year’s judges, whose names 
are not disclosed, are three Tech 
alumni. They were chosen for their 
proficiency in the fields of archi­
tecture, art, and industrial design.
The fact that Homecoming itself 
is a tradition, not an innovation, 
is proof that a friendly and rival- 
rous spirit of competition will pre­
vail. It is hoped that each year’s 
graduates will return to thefr alma 
mater to enjoy their own Home­
coming.
Varieties-
[Continued from page 1 ] 
cialy Tech through the life of An­
drew Carnegie.
Going through New York state 
we see “The Legend of Sleepy 
Hollow” with the Delta Gammas 
and hear the mysterious beat of 
horses’ hoofs.
With Kappa Alpha Theta we 
arrive in the southern mountains, 
and under the title “Moonshine
Pep Rally—
[Continued from page 11 
characters. His humor i-anges from 
plain nonsense and pujis to a 
friendly deflation of pompous 
commercialism and excessive local 
pride.
The torchliglit parade, headed 
by the Kiltie Band and the 
cheerleaders will begin with a 
bang at Morewood where the 
queen candidates will be picked 
up. The next destination will be 
the Tech Bowl where Rege Cordic 
will welcome Techites and intro­
duce Coach Eddie Baker and the 
members of the team. Each fra­
ternity’s pledge class will then 
compete in the annual Pledge 
Cheer contest. A prize will be 
awarded according to novelty and 
originality of presentation.
Madness" we will witness the 
hates and loves of the Hatfields 
and the McCoys, shootin’ irons, 
likker, and all. A geographic de­
tour pulls us to the far west to 
Sigma Kappa’s “The Last Bet” 
and saloon scenes, set in the years 
1850 to 1860.
Chi Omega takes us to the 
southern tip of our journey—to 
Florida and their effervescent pro­
duction called “Florida Fantasy” 
and the story of Ponce de Leon 
and his search for the Fountain 
of Youth. An intriguing trans­
formation takes place and youth 
and beauty take over.
Dr. Ward—
[Continued from page 1] 
appointment to be a professor of 
history at Central China Univer­
sity at Wu Chang in the Han Kow 
metropolitan area. He taught for 
five semesters; and after the Com­
munists came to power, he was 
forced to leave in May, 1949, for 
the safety of his family.
In his lecture this evening, Dr. 
Ward will deliver some personal 
observations, based on his experi­
ences, and an analysis concerning 
the causes of the present political 
situation in China. In addition to 
having served in the O.S.S. dur­
ing World War II, Dr. Ward has 
a very deep personal interest in 
the Chinese situation; accordingly, 
the Tech Forum this evening 
should be a very enlightening ex­
perience.
TELEPHONE
FOR ALL YOUR
MEDICAL NEEDS
We deliver free of charge
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 FORBES ST.
MU 2-6300
CoolIdEnjoyaness
blebeforeneverposs
Chesterfield
* Made with /Jccufay
t Ltccnr A A*ky «urddu eu
