^ I ' ^
Men must be at liberty to 
say in-print whatever they have in mind to say, pro* 
vided it wrongs no one.
.CHARLES A. DANAtnle Catmecfie (Tartan
; Today'f Editorials r - ; 
c Crov.ernmcnt
• Cossóioustaess 
. .Ticket Trouble.*
German Rearmfrmeflt..
VOL. 29v NO. 15CARNEGIE ^INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; PITTSBURGH, PA,TUESDAY, UN. 22, 1935
Inter frat 
Council Finds 
MemberGuilty 
Of Infraction
Tau Delta Phi Is Fined 
$10.00 for Breaking 
Silence „Period
LETTER TO RUSHEES 
IS RULE VIOLATION
Defense Stated, that Local
Chapter Didn’t Know 
Leners Were Sent
At the regular meeting of Inter- 
/r?iernity Council last Saturday 
morning Tau Delta Phi was fined 
$10.00 for infraction of the rushing 
rules. The fraternity was fouDd 
guilty of violating Rule III of the 
rushing regulations whlcli Btates. 
"There shall be a alienee period 
from 9:00 p. m.. November 28. un­
til 4:30 p- m.. December a. No fra­
ternity may contact or speak to a 
rushee during this period. " ueia 
sigma Rho instituted the charges.
.sent by mall to each rushee, tell­ing ot the purposes and the merits of its organisation. • This letter was received by the freshman dur­ing the silence period os defiued
William Landeberg- of Beta Sig­ma Rho pointed out that tills was a direct violation of the regulation since the essence of the rule—com­plete •“silence?—'was' broken.' Tau Delta Phi, represented by Sol Farb- man, showed that, according to the rules, “Contacting conaiBts' of the fraternity making dates withTUBh- ees for the open rushing period" and since no dates were mentioned in the letter, the rule was sot vio­lated. Further, that the- grand chapter sent out. the letters without the knowledge of the local chapter, therefore the local chapter is not tb. blame.
The 'Council found Tau Delta Phi guilty, of .the charge, maintain­ing that the definition of ' contact- ^¿V‘v'a9'aefi5edMu''thi'i^le9'apjplte(l' only to contacting period and.does not refer to the more general use of the word as employed in explain­ing the silence period. Again, -that any communication on- the part ot alumni or grand chapter during si­lence period is an infraction of the rushing rules.- The entire procedure was prasid-' ed over by Julian Munster,. presi­dent of Inlerfraternity Council.
Plays Presented 
By Drama Dept.
3 Studio Matinees Scheduled 
For Last Week of Jan.
The Department of Drama will 
present three studio matinees dur­
ing the last week of January In the 
Studio Theater, administration
building. "The Far-Away Princess,1”
maim, will he presented Thursday. 
January 24, at 3:30 o’clock.'
The cast is as follows: the lead­
ing characters are Avis—Jane Fer­
guson ; Lennon—Helen, ©retzfelder; 
others in the cast are Charman 
Leigh, Jáne Van Duser, Dorothy 
Hughes, Margaret Herd; M&rle Sea- 
focrgh, Miriam Gleason, Susan Car­
ter, Louis Herwitt, Florence Kran- 
sei; Cornells Funkhóüsér,'Beatrice- 
Kaltner, June Endean,. Mary Big 
gert, John Hruby and Alex Segal.
Monday, January 28, two acts ot 
"Camille" By Alexandre Dumas and 
another performance of “The Far- 
Away Princess" will be presented in the Union at 3:30. The cast for •Camille!' is as follows: Camille, Jean Dunheiiy, Roberta Wicks; Armand, Allan Alpern, Drew.Dam; N’avine, Carmelita Jacques, Camille Muhr; Nisbette, Frances Tiegel; Olympe, Henrietta Cohen; Gaston, Jerome Kurtz; Count de Varville, John McKercher, CharTes Blue; Pmdence, Fiances Dee, Gloria Quayle; Stage Manager,- Bernard
Voihner.• -On Wednesday, January 30, three- one-act plays will be presented in Hie Union. Marcia Leety will di­rect “Faith and -Works." The cast
Carnegie 
Tartan 
Quarter Rourì
Helen jayne -.sinxs: ."Winter•vonderland-' and. "Dark cn Obser­vatory Hili:” ...'.w-. Campus Highlights:' . William aywlgbut*,:.- .fEditora^ot'Ttfrtan
^rl Doser. Annoum« *
, Carnegie
Foity-Nine Students 
Are Pledged by Five 
Art School Sororities
Same Number Joined 
At End of Hushing 
La6t Season
ALPHA KAPPA PSI 
SECURES FOURTEEN
List of Pledges Presented 
To Sorority Presidents 
Last Wednesday
ten students. It is interesting to note that the same number of rushees. forty-nine, were pledged at the end of last vears rushing sea-
The greatest percentage of this
ity. of which C. Sue Fuller is pres-
to Beta PI. Beta Tau Lambda pledged 20 rushees. Gamma Gam­ma Gamma ». and Phi Delta Mu,-5.
Dean Green Announces Pledges' The sileiice period which opened Thursday, January 3. was formally ended when Miss Mary Watson Green. Dean of Women, presented the list of pledges of each sorority to their respective presidents. Bids submitted to the Dean’s of- 
^^ Monday, January 14, and malted at that.time to rushees with a formal notice of bidding.
Pledges 'Names 
The pledges who accepted the
Public Lecturer
bid* of the various sororitiespa P*i: ErrrmA Louis« ___Mary _B!{orert ’58^ VlrrfnltAJpha Kappa P»i: Emma I'Men Bum-
DuS«*** '* .....
tam ’38. Julia Miller ’88, Holon Murdoch 38. DorothT'Sherman '38. Gertrude Steph-
37, Mary Cnah-
laley *T*o Lambda : Kathryn Beltech ’37, i dorland ’.39, Anne Bortz 'SB, Mary vn 'OB. Anahcl Crowell '-39. Carmelita lM«-'-30,—'G«n©—Mlllor.-'38,-CAtnlll» r ’SB, Jane Lloyd '36; Francis Tiegel
i in ran Gomma Gamn>a:v-Man?aret Dor-
r ’38. Eleanor Hodjtdòn ’38. J«ann» __rholt "88. Mnnha Kctcñuro ’36, Caro­lyn MeCowon ’38, Elizabeth Moor« ’37, 
irlelta Cohen ‘38.Winifred Í
Y.W.C.A. Will Hold 
Dinner Meeting Wed.
A dinner meeting wllf^be beld by the Y. W. C. A. tomorrow at 4:30, in the Margaret MorrisonDr. H. A. Dal-...... . . ilnieter at theShadyslde Presbyterian Church, will be the guest speaker: Follow- the discussion, which will be by the speaker, dinner will be
All Margaret Morrison and Col-
Btudents at Carnegie automatically
£fi
Mr. Henry Wright. New York architect, who will speak • to " public. tomorrow, night on ’’< munlty Development.”
Public Lecture 
Will Be Given 
By Architect
Henry Wright Discusses 
Community' Housing 
Development
Henry Wright, the New York 
architect, will deliver a public lec­
ture tomorrow night at 8:30 in the 
lixhiblllon room of the College of 
Fine Arts. His subject ,1s “Critical 
Examination of a Bold Plan for 
'Large-Scale.. .Community^. Develop-, 
ment,” In which he will discuss the 
development of the Queens-Astoria 
housing study.
Mr. Wright is a nationally 
known expert in the field of hous­
ing. He was a consultant on the 
sight planning of Chatham Village, which was built by the Buhl Foun­dation, and was also a consultant on Sunnyside. one of the new plot developments In New Jersey.
He has written many articles on the problems of housing and its economic aspects.This is the first time Mr. Wright will speak in- public at Carnegie, although he has delivered ¦ lec­tures at Princeton and the Univer­sity of Illinois.An exhibition of charts Illustrat­ing the development of the Queens- Astoria housing study' will be shown in Exhibition hall all this week, in connection with Mr. Wright's lecture.No cards of admission are neces­sary, the meeting being open to all who wish to attend.
People You Ought to Know...
By Clifton P. Boutelle
A smile is some sort of a facial contortion. Smiles might be 
two. or more facial contortions but in this case "smiles” is Elca- 
Emeroy Siierman, president of the Seiiate of Margaret Mor­
rison College. And president of tlie Senate is just one of a big- 
lapfuX .of.. J).Qlitieal plums, she has gathered in four years at 
Carnegie.It all. began when she was made» - -------------president ot the freshman class in her flrst semester. This was enough get her into Owens society.
any dance since." - she says. Mortar Board honorary,, called her; last May. She is a member of Phi Kapr pa Plil scholastic honorary, and Kappa Phi Delta social sorority.
“Babe” Dldrlcksbn type. ShV glor­ies in athletics. The only sport she doesn’t engage in le squash. She won an invitation women’s golf tournament;, played in the West Penn tennis tourney last year, and recently set a new- high mark for women at the Beacon al­leys when she bowled 173.•Some -time ago her picture.-was featured in the Chicago Tribune for havlne won a prize for the best posture among Chicago school children. She has held- the South­ern Club Tuition scholarship for tour, vears- : This . scholarship b given!: to..Carnegie. po*dB/ot south- era birth Where w®s^I_born7^Ohy'vahei'iald;
was deserving so I got the. scholar­ship.”Although born in the political
Pittsburgh. And now she's all tangled up in the vote- getting game. She is' publicity manager of the Women’s Demo­cratic party of Mt. Lebanon. She has served on two electiou boards and is on the committee for the President's Ball to be held at the William- Penn, tickets .56:00 (adVtby request).Being a member cBoard tnbersof Student Council. She was op­posed, to granting the Dragons the Council concessions. She believes there-shbuld be more publicity and a fairer distribution of concessions.At the Army-Pltt Football dance last year.she amused herself by cutting the buttons .off» the cadet's uniforms. Some fun. Up in a plane, dowii' in a submarine, up in Canada, down in .Virginia, she is 
quite afTavfeter. She has met Nor­man Thomas and knows*' Daniel Roper, Secretary of Commerce well.. He’d make a wonderful grad­uation speaker she thinks.'- There is a short story that would add-color to. this description. One Ume she went ¿ut-into-the yard to mow the lawn clad only, in brightly colored shorts. ' The neighbors all forsook the dining table, for the porches. She is a horrible punster. — •’ • “•“ burEli." sayavElean-ggy. dirty, and dull, expensive place' to have fun in." She can’t see.rhymo rior rfcaeon for i the -.way;-Pittsburgh jitreetii are Hid ouL Bui thnift ah right neither can any one »Iso
Rules for Arts 
Ball Released 
By Committee
Mimeographed Copies 
Will Be Distributed 
With Tickets
DANCE SCHEDULED 
TO BEGIN AT TEN
North Basement Door to Be 
Only Entrance Available; 
Will Close at 12
Rules which will govern the Arts Ball of 1»3:> were releosed today after being mutually agreed' upon
trlbuted to those who purchase Ucket6 for tbs Ball.
Tickets for the Ball were placed on- 6ale last Wednesday after :e highly successful assembly con­ducted by the "Tribes-of-Bagdad'- society.
- To guarantee the financial
ing to arouse enough' enthusiasm among the Arts School students to make the Ball a success.
The rules for the Ball follow;
. The hours of the Ball shall be from 10:00 p. m'u to 3:00 m. The n9rth basement door shall be the only one used for the entrance and exit of students. No one will be admitted after midnight. . A spe­cial identification tag will be given to each Btudent and £u*pt, • This tag must be worn at oil times. No one who leaves the building will .be granted re-entrance. No will be allowed above the
alcoves at the ends of the miBzza-i
Tickets must be purchased !n advance. There will be no door sale. The telephone in the dean’t office will be the only instrument in use. No one will be admitted without'- a costume. These tunies Bhould be of Arabian-design, in ..keeping.., with..Jihe^dsp.oraUvis theme. Persons with objectionable' costumes will not be admitted.Automobiles and tAxles will be permitted to drive to the north >entrance but they must not parlt. Cars may park outside of the re­stricted area. Reporters will not
Soph. Dance 
Shows Deficit; 
Budget Shown
Receipts Total $215.25; 
Free Tickets Given 
To Twenty-One
Two of Ihe three major dances 
held to dale this year have met 
expenses, an examination of 
budgets dicloBeB. - The Military 
Ball and the Freshman All-Car- 
uegie both cleared expenses, while 
the Soph Hop showed a slight de­
ficit. Receipts for the Hop totaled 
$216.26 from the sale af 123 tickets 
at $1.75. Of the 21 com­
plimentary tickets issued by the 
committee, live were used by'com­
mittee members, four Student 
Council executives, and fifteen by 
chaperons and patrons.
It stb especially notable that of 
ihe. twenty-five faculty members 
invited to the aifair twenty-three 
Sveref present:---- ..... .....
Below the budget of last year’ 
Hop is compared with that of thie 
year’s dance.
SOPH HOP
Boeing Award 
Judges Named
Prof. Blaisdall Placed 
On Aero Committee
neerlng, has been chosen of the four members of the Nation­al Committee' of William E. Boe- g Scholarship awards.The committee, of which Dr. B. .M. Woods is chairman, will read the competing essays and appraise the candidates. The award -to the first-prize winner will be a two- year complete ground and flying course at the Soeing Aeronautical school, in Oakland, California.Professor Blalsdell will go by aeroplane '• front''Cleveland 'to Oak­land, California,1 where the meet­ing of the awarding committee will
asked to give a. speech at the re­ception, which will be held to in­troduce tli« members of the com­mittee, officials - of the Boeing Aeronautical school, and candidates for the awards.Besides Professor Blalsdell and Doctor Woods, the committee in-
Coming Events
Wednesday—
' 30—Y.- W, C. -A.-Sieetiae, Br ìi; Dalzell, guest speaker—A. Dalzell, Recreation
8:30—Public. Lecture, “Critical Examination- of a . Bold Plan .for >a Large-Scale Community Development,’ Henry; Wright—rExhlbltlon Room,- Fine Arfs.Buildlng.Thursday;— ;12:30—EarlWild, Plano Recital- Exhlbltlon Room/Fine Arts Building.12: SO—Safety ' .Valve Meeting — Philosophy of Socialism,
Hall'.3:30—Studio; Matinee—"The Far Awàÿ Princess.”8:15—Euripides’ “AlcestIs’’-r-Llt- . tie :Theater.Friday—-• • ••. 3:30—Matinee; Euripides' "Alces- ......... tis'S^Little Theater. .^Monday—
¦sT"™ 3BB8I
3 10—Studio Matinee Camille
Freshmen Hold 
Annual Assembly
Freshman class of the College of 
Engineering will meet at 11:»0 
this mornine in room 21s. Engi­
neering Hall. This assembly is an 
annual affair under- the direction 
of Dr. Ibrlg. Director of Freshman 
in .the‘College of Engineering. Its 
chief purpose is to give an oppor­
tunity to the freshman to clear up 
questions and difficulties about the 
closing of the semester and the registration for the new one.
Dr. Ihrig in his talk to the group will explain the svstem of grading —what to do in the case of an F. or R; and how to go about the new system of registering which will be- started in February.
Previously, each person had to wait his turn in a long line to reg­ister. The new plan is to chart all freshman engineers, and give each one a definite time to appear for registration for the second semes­ter. The average time allotted to each one for the process of regis­tering is.two minutes.
Brown House Gets 
T rus tees A itention
According to William F. Becker 
’35, president of Student Council, 
there are no new developments of 
à'ny "major importance as -far &a 
action of the Carnegie Board of 
Trustees on the proposal to trans- 
f orni' the BfOWM-HüTijse into -au aé‘* 
tMtlee burning is concerned. The 
committee appointed by the Board investigate the matter has re­sted that more definite informa­tion concerning the plans of Stu- Council be tendered . before their final report Is made.
Mr. Bcckcr spent some time in l interview with the members of ie. Board’s investigation commit­tee discussing the feasibility of making the changes In tlie Brown property. During the conference, nembers of the committee 1 that a list of all of the activ­ities that Council expects to house in the proposed headquarters, to­gether with a rough scketch of a possH>!c-flOior-pJaji>.h».sent tl\em as soon a6 possible.
The committee will then inves­tigate thé proposition once roor.c in the light ot the new informa­tion and notify Student Council ia the very near future of their de­cision on the. matter.'
Rates are Lowered 
For Skinner Drama
.matinee February 6. may be obtained from Prof. Elmer Ken­yon in Room 104 in the College ot Fine Arts. Miss-Skinner-will pre­sent "The Loves of Charles If," "The Empress Eugenie," and "The Wives of Henry VIII,“
The evening prices lows: first floor and first three rows of the first ; balcony. ¿2.20 seats':for-;$l.-70: firet^balcony. $1;6B, seatg^ sefAnd-^.-balcony,$110 neats for 90 ceuts.-J. > > v pjii . 1 -J
Little Theater 
Will Present 
Greek Drama
Prof. Wallace to Direct 
Euripides’ *AIcestis\ 
Tragi-Comedy
INITIAL SHOWING 
BEGINS THURSDAY
Translation and Interpréta­
tion by Gilbert Murray Is 
Basis of Production
Euripides' "Alcestis" will be pre­
sented by the Department of Drama 
in the Little Theater for six per­
formances beginning Thursday 
night, and a matinee on Friday at 
3:a0. This play Is the fifth pro> 
duct/on- by the department during the current season.
nually staged the Gr.ee' tragedy li eluded In the Little Theater series, is di­recting this early drama of Euripides. " Is being slated in rua work by
J. Bateheller 
i*ructor of eurythm >d the chorus of la production, “The Medea.”
''Alcestis,” because it hsB c happy.ending and because It cam< fourth or as an after-piece, to thi usual trilogy of tragedies, is re garded as having taken the place' of the
lous doraei
ancient thea*
Mary Hubleygave up her life that her husband, King Adme. etba might live. As Ehirlpldes tells the story, Admetus, on being sum­moned by death was allowed to pro-' cure a substitute. Falling to-flud his aged parents willing to take his place, he accepts-the Dffer of his wife, who is forthwith strlckeu. Amid the mourning for her de­cease, the blustering' demigod, Heracles, arrives and becoming eventually suspicious of. his royal host’s forced hospitality rescues Alcestis from the. grip of death. In his characteristic heroic fashion he •ea her to her somewhat as­tonished husband.
Euripides, who examined these legends realistically and thereby startled his audiences, shows up the Greek idea of the inferiority of wo­man and her required, submlsslve- ness to man by stripping Admetus of every manly quality, even to the point.of making him
Cast for Production
.The past for the play, which Is produced according to Gilbert Mur­ray’s 'translation ariil'inferpretation, Includes Joseph' Bateheller, Car) Dozer, Janet -Patrick, MaryHubley, Brin tQjn Tiirkifi, William Herz, Dor­othy Egli, Hairy Long, Polly Howies, Mary Cheffey. John Kan- ¿lden Smith, Ralph N:
ard Watkins, John Gordon, Mai- <.-elm • Milligan,. Homer Hull, James McConnell, .Charles Aslibaugh, Wil­liam Canton, Douglas Pannier, Eleanor Blowser, Alice Robinson, Dorothy O’Donnell, Mary Hughes, George Taylor, Amalia Rese, Mlt- ilrld Barrlck, and Sara Scott
Music Maker
Baron Elliot, who. with Hli ohestra. will furnish the music for the ,,penny-a-pound,f dance Friday
Novelty Dance 
Is Scheduled 
For Friday
“Penny-a-Pound” Ad­
mission Charge Is in Ef­
fect; Top Price $1.25
‘Penny-a-Pbuud" dance scheduled for Friday evening from 0:00 till 1:00 In Ttjlstle' Hall.
- -Instead sf -the- one . dalla mission usually charged for these dances, tlie commltteo has Insti­tuted a program which .taxes each couple a cent a pound weifeht’ of the lady. Weights will be kept strictly confidential, 
Further, the maximum charge has been limited to $li26 per co pie. A premium, in the form of twenty-five cent reduction of the price for admission has been.plac-
at both extremes of the.scales will be admltteed without charge.
—-Ba to o-,'Elliots and. -his ..orchestra, have appeared before on the Car-' negle campus, having played for the Notre Dame football ;dance, and the Scimitar tea dance. They have also played at many functions of the University of Pittsburgh, and *re now playing an extended en- ngement at the Park CaBlno.Chaperons for this dance are not
Ballet Composer 
Will Give Recitals
Earl Wild Presents Concerts 
Each Thursday at 12:30
Earl Wild, composer of the Ballet 
music, will present a series of half- 
hour piano recitals, beginning this 
Thursday at 12:30. The recitals 
will take place In the Exhibition 
room. College of Fine Arts. There 
no charge for admission;
These programs will be offered 
every Thursday for tlie next three 
week's.
The following are the selections 
for Mr. Wild’s program:1. Chopin ... .Waltzes Op. 69, No. 1 
_0Q« 60. Na. 2
op. io. Nl. Op. lO. Nò. - Op. 26, No. 1 Oft 26, No. 3 JL-Chapln .„.„Pxeludefl.Op, 28.No. 8 Op. 28, No. 16 Op. 28, No. 17 Op. 28, No. 22 0^.28, No. 24
Scherzo in B. Flat Minor
Shock and Vibration-Proof 
Laboratory Nears Completion
Molecular Itivestigation 
Of Gases Is Possible 
With New Room
room as free from, shock and 
vibration as.lt is humanly'possible 
to. construct Is jiearing completion
oratory for such experiments In which the. extremely sensitive ap­paratus used would be materially affected Tiy the sway and vibration ,of an ordinary room.
Excavations for the room were carFISS to bed'Tock, upon-whlch was laid a layer of a specially pre­pared resilient substance. . On this
tho. resilient shock absorber, and that .together with the great Inertia of the pier will be sufficient to give extremely steady support to the in­struments.
'Needed For Experiment . . The. room was necessitated bv the Investigation, of' the- nature of
and John A.-Ord ’34, graduate stu*
small -that' a super-sensitive gal­vanometer :•with a multiplying de­vice must be-used. • Thie instru­ment, which would -give a deflec­tion of one millimeter when expos­ed to the light of a candle one mile away, is so affected by. the sway of Engineering Hall due to wind and . weather' condition as to be rendered useless when used in an ordinary- room. For- this reason vlbration-iitö'öf vöört Is be-
iretaè acrMracy/.iJslng.tlie.extreme-
obtained important.. data_émission llries in the fine structure ot the infra-red - spsetrum ot ben- 7ene. This information may>Iead to th.e ; explanatlon ; of< the' exact coupling i of . the carbon: ¿anâ-hy- :droyenàtomB'inthebeniene:mole*
Metallurgical 
Board Holds 
Eighth Annual 
Meeting Here:
Reports Will Be Given 
On Work in Metals 
Research Lab.
ALL DAY SESSION 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8 ;
Prominent Metallurgists 
Of Industry.-, to. Diseuse 
Recent Findings .
nual opou meeting of the .Metal­lurgical Advisory Board to be held :«: Friday. Feorimrv 8. oo ths oampufl. Approximately 400 metallurgists are expected to attend the meeting. ;• 
Dr. John Johnston, dlreotor of the :,-
tlon. will preside at the morning-' session, and. Dr. Frank N. Speller.-; chairman of the Advisory Board» -. will give the address of weloomo. * 
Progress made bv the Metals Re» /. search - Laboratory at CarneglOs in -
1SDrUR.i
ulasBiiled under four major ] namely, plastic deformation-: ot metals, precipitation from solid solution, oxidation ot metals,"-and dlffiiBion- ln metallic alloys- Dr-F.-^v-: M. Walters, Jr.. formerly of -the j?--. staff of-this laboratory.-will offer final .report, on .the manganese, and carbon, which he Investigated for a period of several'^'-'1 years at'Carnegie 
Dr. Cyril Wells, also of thft » metals . .laboratory, will explain-the - ^ v preparation "and properties oE high-““ purity Iron and will report "i—...
report, of the morning session .wlll; * be read by 'B, N. DonilofT;' research .? fellow, on "Tho Effcct;orDeoxtdo*v^ tlon on the Ageing of Mild Steeled-i the afternoon session at which '. «„i— - ralmetalh " ':LaughlM-'': '-presMe.-- .. r.. lormor.. rector of research for the :MetiiIv
made under, hie direction i legle.
TheBe reports will conclude the program of researcn on the phys­ical chemistry, of steel-moklnff
cál Advisory Board. The, subjects ! of the reports to be given by Dr-’ Hdrty include "The Effect of Deo»“ idûtion on the Impact Strength 'of- Carbon Steels at Lowlure,” “Rate of Transform Grain Sizes,” "Deoxidi Steel,” and “The Control Oxide In the Basic Op< Process.”A group of prominent (Continued on Page
8non or >i of iron fi len'Hearth r «
Alumnae Plan 
Silver Jubilee
Helen Bradshaw *15 Is^ 
Chairman of Dinner • .
of the event. ¦ : ’ • (, Guests of honor who liave been nvl*edv to -attend -thé -oolebratioit-vÆ ire Di:. Baker. Dr. and Mrs Wat- ^ kins, Miss Mary Watson Green Miss Mary B. Breed, former dlrec* “-'i.' tor of Margaret Morrison Mlég Julia Morgan Harding, Mis Plill *put, Miss Ruth Andrews, and Mr:-... Orbln. M1S9 Harding, Mrs. Phlipnt '^ and Mr. Orbln were all on the sta’ffii-' of Margaret Morrison when -tlie'i'« college was-established. «5Mrs. Bradshaw’s committee in ¡5
of Margucrlte Menges Shupp 16 »Helen Bosworth Orr ’18, Margarete Mnttern Stoeltzing *20, Josephln? j Gibson Eckert '25, Christin/' ( Leighou. and Alice Work both 4 program including
shaw, 1216 Shady avenue. The' i lessment Is $1.60.
Drives are being conducted- tovse-jsg additional support • trom v tha^'R classes of '08. '09. ’14. ?19. '24.: an'd>:fe 29 in the Pittsburgh district,' amir-*1. more extensive cftMpwgu-is^b«^ Ing planned- to. include all classes^ and all Carnegie Clans.}-. .Mr.. J. W. Daugherty, - recently elected president of- the Federation^ has 'pledged himself to renewithei interest once held- among-.the alutn.^8___The :gradiifttes will: h'4imSSgg8conscious of their obligations'^’ Camegle and of the respanelw? which rests on them- for.the

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN.-TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1935
ôTltie ÔTatrneÿe 3Tartatt
lend ln the Plltsbnrgli Post Offiw as eccond-cia** matter.
____WILLIAM LANDSBERGJ11I.IAN P. UUNSTEB_____________BOT MINET________HAROLD J. BAEB_________JEROME HANSON_____.HARGARET C BIFFIN____HERBERT P. SCHWARZ___DUDLEY O. FENJJ LETONlAiuiu, V#mnte» Kloo«. /—Liviasrto-- • COPY EDITOR: Rnti GasUfson.; HEAD EDITOR: Gwen Haddock.
1 JUNIOR EDITORS: W»Uer AdnmBOD. Ottton Bkratelli 
REPORTERS : Toby
•. StiasglnE Editor.— 
' TEATURE EDITORS:
i. BUSINESS- STAFF :.
. Layton, Keith McCntcbeoo, 
CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert J
In each college, where they could be called 
for at a time convenient to all students of that 
coliegeV the .trouble might be alleviated.
Thin" plan, though presented seemingly-to 
favor only the. engineers, is, In reality, fair to 
all the students because It Is based upon pro­
portionate distribution. If' merely attempts 
to 6et aright a disadvantage which Is an out­
come of the present method.
Government Consciousness
. The introduction, into the curricu- 
¦ ’ lum o£ courses in the study of gov- 
s;.;',K eminent, such as Political Seienee or
; Practical Politics.
. To‘increase interest in national affairs 
' by giving students a better understanding 
I’x-V :• • of the workings of the government and by 
'• -interpreting the-trends of events so that 
' they may become, more intelligent voters 
; ' '. and .better citizens.
i;'' - -. -To emphasize the need In government 
ill-' rv ' of trained college graduates and to en- 
courage étudente to take the lead upon 
$i;£r- graduation so that honest, intelligent and 
b I :U'.V'efficient local and national government
i ‘ may be more easily obtained. (Point from
i'lV.-the Tartan Platform).
gytnn sweeping measures^and bold strokes- 
, ¦ s. J. which have characterled the actions of 
•“•-'•’- •the present administration have kept the at- 
J ' ; faire of the nation continually before the eyes 
of the people. New legislation, bringing gov- 
emment closer home than ever before,.has In- 
i ; tftnHifled the interest in what Is happening in
:;;i!'-?!the national capitol. Unfortunately, that in­
terest is of a “what's going to happen next’* 
nature—a. curious wonderment which must 
i-*.:#’ l satisfy itself with what it finds in the news- 
" papers
^¿SjJil.'..':Hewspapers can be adequate in only one 
isfiifîïïj-sspect, they can INFORM. They cannot 
"ji'ivsjiCEDUCATE. That remains for the colleges to' 
1 do That la what the colleges MUST do.
| U £ i The interest is there to begin with,' to work 
with It mu t be made Into a wide-awako in- 
lÎfyji^tereBt that grows an understanding of WHY 
things, are -happening and WHAT SIGN1FI» 
CANCE they have. Ignorance of a subject 
** ( will ireed di interest. That danger must be 
¡.•si;Vrf^avolded- - Much bas occurred in thé last three' 
l-^-s^kyeaxs and much more will occur that needs 
¡T | clarification and. Interpretation. The trend 
of government becomes more obvious daily. 
r It 1 toward the point where Washington will 
fcàve à finger in almost everything we do. It 
? flEHOOVES us to see that that finger is an 
1 intelligent one. To do that we must under- 
r.T.-:-;:i-:i fltand more clearly than the newspapers can 
Jy explain to u the policies of dur government 
.if i-!-7;jvand their effect upon us.
»!-=Aiiy'- - Colleges must adapt themselves to changing 
<*’ j conaition , and conditions are changing swiftly 
;i-now, particularly in government..
if the'purpose of higher education is to pre- 
7- iâre people to live in society to. the greatest 
¦¡i^ iS-i • tSvanlage to society aud to themselves, then 
institutions of higher education must equip 
•i-riiiviiheir students with adequate knowledge of the 
.^-S^jyorkJngi?- of—government-so ..that -when they 
jadaate, they can find their places in society 
:k-7;?:Si.'HB-iiitelligent voters and better citizens.
ultimate objective is to have every insti- 
¦pr-ahi tution of higher learning In the country pro* 
il^iVii. vide its students with education in govern- 
/!'T^!-metit There MUST be a place on 'every cur­
riculum for it It’s too important to be omit*
German RearmamentS
O far. Hitler has succeeded In defying the 
Treaty of Versailles.
One look, at the .present International situa­
tion would indipate, that Fart V of the treaty 
Is. on the y/ay. tó.diBCfUd., Gennany, after leav­
ing the-League of Nations and the Arms con­
ference; has’ denounced the limitations placed 
upon her armaments. Quite naturally, the Al­
lied nations contend that the' obligations of the 
Reich pannot he,dismissed by.a'.mere unilateral 
declaration. Nevertheless, Hitler has gone 
ahead with - bis rearmament plans, and it is 
quite obvious that-neither France nor any 
other signatory of the Treaty of Versailles in­
tends to go to war about it.
So Germany declares herself entitled to 
equality in armaments and proceeds on the 
basis of complete disregard .for Part V -of. the 
Treaty while Greát Britain, Franco and Italy 
wonder whether it wouldn't be. wiser if Ger­
many wore brought to some sort of an agree­
ment. And such a compromise Is not at all un­
likely. Germany agreed. .In Article 164 of the 
Treaty that after she. becomes a member of 
the League-of Nations the armament limita­
tions fixed for her shall remain in force “un­
til they áre modified by ihe. Council of the 
League.”, " • < ‘ ‘ •
With Germany back in the League, the 
Council will, in all probability, modify .the fa­
mous table II which restricts the size of the 
German forces. These limits call for an army 
no greater than 300,000 men, a navy no greater 
than 6ix small - battleships, six light, .cruisers, 
twelvu destroyers nnd.twelve torpedo boatB, no 
submarines of any kind and no sir force what­
soever.
But what was. Inevitable ..has begun to take 
place. These restrictions are no longer In 'op­
eration os'far as tho German government is 
.concerned. In fact, Berlin has clearly stated 
Its policy to build an air force, a declaration 
.which has caused the British no end of worry.
It would seem rather futile for the Allies lo 
attempt to ..maintain their legal rights accord­
ing to the Treaty. France is not going to send 
an army to Berlin and England is not going 
to blockade German ports in order to force 
her to reduce her army and to prevent her 
from building up an air force. To submit to 
a comprise that would at-least have the advan­
tage of international inspection and supervis­
ion would. In the long run, prove better than 
allowing things to go on as they are now, 
with German preparations proceeding in ao 
unlimited manner.
As yet,- German officials have given no of­
ficial indication of their attitude toward the 
suggestions that have been made. - The polit­
ical isolation she now m«6t endure is a matter 
onsldera^léV cóhc'ern'.tcr. áU th&Tiiech lead: 
Her return' to .Geneva,, though, hinges upon 
whether her right to arms equality is reconlz- 
ed.-
ted
Ticket Trouble
T: \Vf HAT with only 390 seats in the Little 
:u„vv ¦: Theater and with first consideration go- 
‘¦ing to subscribers, faculty and Drama students,
¦ it's no wonder that the distribution of the 
. ¿.'.remaining tickets for tho productions of the 
;.v.-,.--Dnima Deparcraent is a perplexing problem. 
.There is practically no hope that a thoroghly 
satisfactory method will be nevlsed, for the 
obvious reason that the demand is, and al* 
ifetsi^-ays: will be. greater than the supply. Still, 
i.y- ’.’int' doesn’t presume that the present system, 
f pursues a "flrst come, first serve” pol-
¡¿cannot be improved upon.
- f there must be few tickets for the benefit 
^the students, then the important .thing is 
cive- them distributed in proper proportion 
3>p?moDg the colleges. The largest college in 
'.'pithe.'institution is the College of Engineering. 
'«¦¿^-Furthermore, the engineers are- precisely the 
-would, .derive.. tae. .greatest. hen.eflt 
rota-i the. production -at the Little Theater - be- 
i.it Would provide them, even though 
a'small degree, with some of the' cultural 
¿v&nlages.to-be gotten from Carnegie—some- 
k)?*' which their, curriculum sadly- lacks- 
tolriteifc ng "«h ch 1& definitelj- essential it 
hem;-".-..:'?
^Cnder .the: present system, which distributes 
.¦from.the Registrar^ office at 
: In' the morning,, the great majority of 
;ineers,are at a. disadvantage-because of 
^iylng eight-thirty... classes.. ’ If, Instead, 
¦dls^buted^fro^
^of the varione collrgeat in
ü. E. Horizon
By Robert R. French
The “Brain Trust,” theorists struggling with practical problems, professors running't government—all these phrases are becoming little tiresome. But about one man there ir sense of authority, knowledge .and direction the hullaballoo of Washington. At present Donald rtichberg has as nearly a key position as any man sy' has entered, and left, the Washington sceue. Director of the National Emergeucy Council, executive director of the Industrial Emergency Committee, executive secretary of the Executive Council and general counsel of the NRA, now dubbed “assistant President,”'lie seems capable of hearing up under thiT&heer weight ot' titles.
Mr. Richberg is practical and he has ideas. But- he aiso haa legal.knowledge, and tbe com­bination of these three qualities in the one man makes him invaluable in the puzzling task of co-ordiuating Industry, labor and farm- iiig;'--FurtiKr; he- spealis a v-arled-language^-ta the employer he is sympathetic; as chief coun­sel for - the railroad brotherhoods, he under­stands the .difficulties of labor; as aid to his father In the political dilemmas of Chicago, he listens cannily- to the politician who enters his Washington office. His mind is practical and logical, and his idealism Is based on years of legal training and battling."
• “My experience,” he said, “leads me to con­clude that there is no problem in- the world that cannot be settled by reasonable discus­sion. It is when reason brcalcs down and emotion holds sway, that conflict ensues. Karl Marx's theory was absolutely unsound be-
able . . .
“I do not believe in the principle of Marxian gO.claUSTO _that. .social. Jystl.c* lilished by direct political act1 felt that social'justice cau' I__________by economic readjustment, which may, course, be indirectly brought about by political actiou. That has been my only interest iu politics?’
Richherg’s grandfather, Louis Richtberg
liberal political faction of his> day, the Repub­lican party. His sou, John, a Union sailor in the-Glvii-War,-beeam-c disgusted -with the post­war attempts at reconstruction of the Repub­licans, turned to the Democratic - party, later
dall, descendant of Governor Carver of___achusetts. When fifty years old, Mrs. llich- berir entered medical school in .Chicago.' At 
these hands young Richberg received a*liberal
uated from Harvard Law-School and'entered banking, corporation and insurance law.Dis­liking the. work, he ran for State’s Attorney In Illinois e whën - thirty-one. . .The- Progressive movement ,óf 1913-14 won' him' ¡over,.' and/.he. jwxote^;tïfé
alynlflcapc»;
Writers’ Row
v WE, THE PEOPLE .
Some, years ,ago; while I. yeti'wept upon 
each successive reading of Elsie Dlnamoré, 
an American author, moved by the hack- 
wash of events but raising extra ripples 
In that same bacfyvasb, published a scath­
ing denunciation of Americano, or more 
particularly of Gopher Prairie. He both 
set and followed the fashion • of scoffing 
at small town architecture, small town 
customs, small town people, Indeed.every­
thing that made a small town a email 
town. I. confess that, having, once lost 
faith ,ln déár little-Elsie l-drank4n all of 
Mr. Lewis’ writings to the last sour dropi.
I confess that I Joined, not loudly but with 
carefully mocking tones, In. thé wav.é’.of 
Lewlslan- echoes which swept .the land, 1 
confess even to having, tbe guilty feeling 
of a traitor when, hiding new-found soph­
istication, I áte and enjoyed' both angel 
food and chocolate cane, and then read, in 
cold blood, the next morning’s accounts - 
of “dainty refreshments.” ; •
I spent this summer In Gopher Prairie. True, the place Js in tbe east. . Instead of fields of: grain just beyond the edge of town there is the cool, blue Sound. The older streets at least are shielded from the glare by tall trees growing from great, green, swollen places in the lawns.. But tbe business district is Gopher Prairie in all its'glory* Across the street-from here. Is tbe Art Shoppe—uglier, more glittering vases never were seen. Jusl beyond 1b the drug store, then a grocer’s, and then the-
glories of the show I 'never shall cause the Gopher .Prairie Bijou is the last stop oh the road to tbe film’s grave. Be-, yond the theater, just opposite the dry goods store, Is the alley entrance to the laundry, then another drug store, and an- - other, and beyond that the two grey sta-
it for the winning fight it tells against s land all too Inclined to -the damp decay of a marsh.
I spent the most American, of-ohT na­tional. holidays in Gopher ' Prairie. The sidewalks, the cars, the people themselves were surrounded by a shimmering aura of heat. They stood along the edge of the street and cheered, cheered when the flag passed, and when the high school
i thumping far ahead In front. They
proved'to he someone’s uncle msaquerad-
after group filed past to receive -awards. The stories they told the children of a noble Washington and a noble Valley Forge were scarcely bon mots, but, rather,'
I stayed In Gopher Prairie after the hol­iday excitement-'bad died- down,-rstayed after the. family next .-door • had -left to spend its two-week vacation at camp. I staye.d..long- enough.for the picnic of• the -workers. In the town’s main industry. I stayed to help the hostess at a birthday party for her' angel child (I think they called him “little Aubrey”). Far longer than I had originally Intended I stayed, be­cause I enjoyed the simple routine of th^ place, the neighbors who wondered If you
mórnlng whiteness! I welcomed the free-
but ohbecause Main Street was the least inhabit­ed place in a vauntedly uninhabited
Sinclair Lewis allows himself tlie privilege of liking, of giving ungrudged 'admiration to at least some of his characters, and those characters the self same common- • place people who have, as objects of their
-tionnl by-word.
But Sinclair Lewis has changed more than his attitude. This time I think he lias changed his' position, from leader to moulder of public opinionn —perhaps unin-
PITTS COLLEGE threw their Interfralernity Ball last Frl? 
day at the Schenley Hotel -. . . they struggled to the strains of - . 
Emerson Gill and his orchestry . . . Munster and McKelvey en- 
jôyéd'therfance' eemensley< -. ¦.. o but -why shouldn’t, they, it didn’t 
cost. t£em anything.. . . Kelen Camp was there, but I don’t know 
who with ... I couldn’t see very well . . . without my glasses. '
JUST ACROSS THE HALL the Delts were having another '
'¦ one of'.their F. & D. (frolic and dance) parties . . .It's getting 
to be a habit . . . and say, Will Ryshanek has quite a band . ; .
- eh what?
CHICK OVERENTD and a couple of his cronies were loitering 
.--In tbe lobby . . . Ralph Davis and Lts Van Valkenberg were 
also loitering . . . but not in the lobby.
THE KAPPA SIGS held a radio dance Saturday night and 
had a full house . . . however, nothing out of the ordinary oc- .
' curred, so my friends tell me.
DID ANY OF YOU fellers happen to notice the snow men in 
front'of the girls’ dormitories the' othèr day? . . . what’s the- 
matter'ladles? . . . are we getting too hot for ya?
ALL HAIL Captain Ackley, our hero and' monarch ... 1 
. hear that when but a lad he was asked what he wanted to be 
when he' grew up ... he replied twit: Quote, I want to be a na­
tional figure, unquote . .. . he is well on the way ... In thé ' 
race, Joe Mihm rah second and George Goodridge, third . . . 
time: 2:2 . . - weather clear; truck fast. . ..see Puppet.
IT SEEMS THAT about half the class didn’t show up in 
Mechanics last-week, so Mr. Salbel throws) a quiz . . . “I’ll fix 
those absentees,” he sez,. “if any of you gentlemen don’t know 
( how to do the problem. Just see me’1 . . . those present received
A’s . . . those absent, failures . . . hmmm . . . mmm . . .
, 1 can’t get over it)
AND IF ANY of you ladB are behind- In your jokes, just s*ep 
over In the .Y-room any morning between 9:30 and 11:30 ... we 
guarantee results . . . and at no cost, whatsoever.• ***••• •
AND BOY WAS Snyder eore, when he found out that Polly, 
his dove, didn’t draw Ihe lucky number and win a free ticket lo 
the Arts Ball . . . now Frank, aren’t you expecting a little too
much? . ... by the way, who did win? . . . that’s a swell way to
Bave four bucks.
DID YOU KNOW that the Junior Prom Committee had and 
; lost Duke Ellington’s-Orchestra within tbe short space of two 
hours? ... I understand that they spent the next couple of 
hours not signing up Rublnoff and his violin.
BOOM—Latest -reports from the :
“Sugar” Lehne has been signed up a; 
ride team.
-,-; PpMB:; \
.• ¿‘v'r^^h^lttle Johnny-killed his sister,' 
ÿ,r Â thlDg a brother should not do;
• t ; Said his mother, “Now you’ll catch It,
You’ve spoiled your father’s brand ne 
ANOTHER:
The stag at eve had drunk his fill,
He lost his lunch on Monan's rill.*
(•See Scott's “Lady of the Lake ... 1
Dear Editor
follower, to niediu
.tent}ona.lTTTTof..public..opinion. *.He..aeftms .i .represent a national return to normalcy at which I, once devoted disciple of the Lew- isian philosophy or, Tather, the Lewisian misanthropy, rejoice. We are realizing at
few who are aware. It is time that the much maligned “hick” came Into his own— awkward perhaps, inarticulate, or -worse, overarticulate, but doing in his own way the hundreds of things without which those who claim to speak "another lan­guage” would soon be lost. To be a Hal- lam no longer is to be hard, cold, stupid; it is to be steady .and honest—dull, per­haps, but only to the casual observer. To be ordinary is to possess all the glories of living without wasting one atom of them in an affected pose of “Oh, the wonder of it all!” Indeed, in all literature I can "think of ' no rlclier;' more riieaningtul “
when in 1926 he single-handed waged legal war against .the 160 corporation lawyers ' the country’s greatest railroad valuation c? Hard-hitiljjg, with a store of facts and an easy humor, he beat Insull in many utility rate battles. A member of the law firm of Rich­berg, lekes and Richberg, he was co-author ofthe.Railroad.^abor Act.in.l926.,_.._.... ......
Novelist,, historian, economist, musician
factions of NRA into a unit to strengthen the country’s industrial attack on a shattered busi­ness life. Richberg has never bepn a radical in the sense of violent change. “Every 'single right and protection the indlvJdual has in society -has been created legally. And itby the;sam© process bé modlfled to .meet___changing .needs, .. . .oThere ie-'nothing 'static in-pur,'llfe.v;<-Aiidbere^ln^üls-ùwnvLWordfli
Dear Editor:The Tartan’s reprint of .Wechs- lej-'s editorial on the red scare be­ing raised by the Hearst newspa­pers and other organizations struck a responsive note in many sections of student opinion. It did certainly in the opinion of thc- wrlter! As executive secretary of the Pittsburgh chapter of the Na­tional Student. League, the writer was blazoned hi fiery colors by the ent Sun-Telegraph,' In . similar if feebler, vein to the attack on the i organization at Columbia, wh|ch Inspired the. Spectator’s stand. It is good to know th'al'ati .tiempt Is under way by the more reasonable student publicists to
the University of Pittsburgh, and the attempt of ihe Sun-Telegraph to1 stirrup:a similar opinion against certain-students and faculty mem­bers here clearly Indicates that or­ganization demands counter-organ­ization. A non-partisan group def­initely committed to an uncompro­mising struggle against encroach­ments - on academic freedom, against'..increasingly heavier stu­dent economic, burdens, against further militarization and Naziflca- tlori of our schools in any form must be-’tlie students' and tlie in­structors’ chief machinery of de­fense!. The writer hopes that the val­idity of his .discussion Is not im­paired by' Ills confessedly special 'intSresi; fre'foeiie^s-that- i:\e--Nifc-- tional Student League; is the best, if iiot the only existing means of carrying on this action, If -you agree with that; -humorous con-
vites your participation.
Sincerely,
P. MORRISON ’36.
On Second Ttought
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
The World Court
As .tlie question of the World Court i6 again brought up in the Senate, it :begins to appear for the first tim© that America Is on the ’* pledging herself ¦
nothing of the kind when I heard we had :tost- the case: . . . and-1 find that the result has-been a. closer friendship with the country concerned. Even though In some cases we lose, we can feel that (he fact of having spared the nations- the horrors or war, constitutes in iteelf a victory.” . .Why We Should Join The whole question of the World -Court seems tome to boll down lo •whether we want to. continue to drift without any.real, peace ma-
•brlngs only’ suffering, - waste and
Pendleton, Jr.: e Ellhu Root, proposed a method of selecting judges which acceptable to the League of >ns and instrumental in tbe forming of the Court in 1922. This -esolution proposes that the Sen­ate consent to the adherence of the United States to the World Court with certain reservations, le most controversial being one hlch gives the United States the power to prevent the court from handing down an advisory opinion l a question In which the United States has an interest.
Idea of World Court Not New . The Idea of a world court for the settlement of international dis­putes may be traced a6 far back as 1650. The first American plan, however, was not suggested until
find America presenti a court at the first world pence conference at Tbe Hague and again in 1907. This last was not acceptable because of disagree­ment over the method of selecting judges and nothing was done.Finally in 1920 an international committee on which Ellhu Root the' American representative accepted the Root plan whereby each nation be allowed to nomin­ate four persons, two from somo other country, and the League Council and Assembly electing the judges from this group. The Court was opened in 1922.
The Court Set-up Fifteen judges elected for nine- year terms and representing as much as possible all of the world’s principal legal systems, make up the Court. They are not chosen
control, for they can only be dis­missed by a unaniihous vote of the other members of the Court. The Court meets, as often as is neces­sary at the Peace Palace at The Hague and lias at least one meet­ing every year. Salaries are paid by the League of Nations.Any government mpy * bring
must be published.The-Court’s Record Of the sixteen dispute's which the Court has settled to date, many have been of such character that they might easily.have led to
tlon has ever refused to-abide by the Court’s decision.When a case was decided against France a few years ago, France’:
for judgment and lose them should not consider that they have anything of their dignity. T felt
to show signs of being civilized and put our disputes In the-hands of an international court.Those who object to our joining quote dogmatically the worn out phrases “The Court is tlie' back door -to. the League of Nations" and “Muddling in European poli­tics will burn our fingers.”The only danger as far as being
'Pllsh ( .thing; and as to being drawn into European politics—the present plaa
any matter in which
Court Well Supported The fact that the United States
during the twelve, years of its « istance does not mean that It has not had the support of the various administrations. Every president-, since tbe war has advocated our- joinlng and the plan has- been en­dorsed by both the mojor political
olutions for adherence and it has -received the support, of. the Amer­ican Bar Association as well as 6& state and local Bar Associations.
Now or Never Certainly now is our chance to show that we are a “big” nation-
69 senators are now believed to favor the general Court proposal. If. speedy action can be had and a
¡ntly Located for Tech
First Trinity Lutheran Church
. MERKENS,
Wearied by
. . . /¿fÁf 04?
a Windbaq?
06/ Cyo/c/
Choose your bank 
as you 'would choose ¦ 
a fnend 
¦ *
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK^
If you’re cornered at a fancy- 
dress ball by a tedious “ME-Man,” don’t let the 
pest spoil your party. Count ten and light a 
sunny-smooth Old Gold. Every puff of a mellow, 
mild O. G. is like a friendly pat on the back.
AT TRYINQTIMES ... . TRY A SncatA OLi) GOLD

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, JANU&KY 22, 1935 ->'I
‘«el- ^cÍS19cad- M§|9len. ^|S
100, '<lTHE
TUESDAYL
QUARTERBACK"V
¦ ® 9
BY JERRŸ HANSONPeop
MILT DINGER is IN the MARKET for -an- electrically controlled, 
•luck with automatic gun attachment. The games are,.still being run 
pretty elosc,.- and there might:!»«'use for one yet. I might suggest-the 
purchasing,.of an eJrtenalon for the gym, tool
SPORTS STAFF JS ON THE SPOT as- far. as getting a writ©- 
i the Temple tussle, although It will have, happened by the time 
he Tartan le out. Weighing this with that, 4’d' say It was, a pretty
Haonum’s loopers did a good job on. Geneva'. ¦ The Pittsburgh 
japers made a lot out of'ihe change to the man-to-man defense, hut 
Max, the team reverted to that formation only tor a 
raction of a minute, .¿a order to gain possession of tbe ball. He 
licks to tbe zone defense pretty regularly.
Captain Ted Rigg took first in the riager count, and Babe Patt 
I flowed not far behind.. Ginsberg shone for tbe opposition. The 
; all boys handled the jumping at center consistently and conveniently 
• the PJaid. *.
j’TOOLE IS NO LONGER coaching the plebea. Jerry ha6 been se- 
* ectcd by Boxing Coach Ernie Seato to handle the large frosh flstl- 
?4uffs aggregation. 'Red Silverman Is taking ‘over O’Toole's job coach* 
g the plebe cagers. His record Is pretty good to date.
Incidentally, there will be a gala exhibition of the gentle art of 6elf 
’iferense In the Gym, Saturday night, beginning at 6 o’clock. The con. 
$est9 will be. open to everyone, whether eligible for sports .or not. 
I There w II be two bouta in almost every weight except heavy. . tt 
mises to be an affair of unusual excitement, and you won’t have to 
ir a tux to feel proper—I recall the craze of two year6 ago.
THE INTRAMURAL COURTS I SUGGEST that the fans devote 
i attention to the Theta Xl’s—If .you haven't spotted them already; 
Tic Delta are showing class also, and I suppose they will show more 
----powerful squads—but meanwhile,
*ND ANOTHER SUGGESTION—WATCH the ofllclatihg at the intra- 
iura1-games, I was especially griped last week at the answer given 
i one of the.referees when he was questioned regarding his refusal’ 
> call time- out when the ball had to be chased Into another court. 
Is answer waa: “Of course I won’t call time out when the player
jean’t hand It to rnp.” In other words, he waa discriminating against 
ine team because a member of the other team had neglected to ,de*
1 the bail directly to,the referee upon being called out—and sec- 
; during a tight game ^re very valuable. The attitude was rather 
i»l,” I would say. - '
pERE’S WHAT I SHOULD HAVE BEHIND- MY VOTE If I were voting 
;ainsl football among high school youngsters: according to a N. Y. 
il'. report, deaths from football during 1934 totaled 23. ¦ Thirteen of 
«taesa were in the high school class, and the remaining deaths were 
distributed pretty evenly between sandlot, college, and business firm 
ifootball.
Pitt Takes Skibos, 51-12 
Plebes Lose, 34-25
Women's Athletics
. —by----- • 1
MARGIE GREEN
| Another freshman steps to the I this week, or to be moré ac- luíate, steps a little farther, front.
hockey, her class elected senate, representative a few nonths ago', and now they have recently chosen her as cap- »in of tbeiv basketball team, light, you've guessed correctly; little lady is none other than Vilsack, and can she play
loslilon, come to think of It. Cou­nts, Sis, and beware of those urc-shot sophomores! The other lasses have'not made up their lintls, as yet, concerning theirV ....
captain, but will probu- line through this week with decisions.
In the matches shot last week for he Telegraphic Meet. Mary Wet-
Frederick also shot 100, ^vblle Mar.. bi- Someiius and —Peg Hainan, ante close behind with 99’s, and ilda Waina and 'Lib Lowrey shot 'icaslcy -pwbu • Reports trom other alleges will determine - Tech’s Landing in ihe intercollegiate eagne. Tue best of luck to you; h' noble’ rirtera—juet lfeeiJ .up “to iur record thus far, and you’re 
mh to come out on top.The W. A. A. Board has been try* fi to decide which should prove a Eger success—the' . usual s.wim- 'i>ng party, or a tea danco in the fay ot something different. Of :ourse, to be perfectly frank, ouv
money.1’ At any event, esc of you Scotchmen can-rest cd that you will get your y'a worth if you should h'vd
Baskets Frequent 
In League Openers
The flrst week of action in the 
intramural basketball battles saw 
many startling results. Foremost 
among these was the rising to the 
heights' of ¦ one of the dormitory quintets, namely McGill Hall, whose defeat of Beta Theta Pi, last year's American League cham­pions, brought- forth, a new threat to be reckoned with. Delta Tau Delta, prowned intramural champs last season, continued their win­ning ways by defeating Kappa Delta Rho and Phi Sigma Kappa by overwhelming scores. Another league champion of last year, Theta Xi, was likewise successful in their first'week of play, swamp­ing the Phi Kappa fraternity and Scobel Hall In one-sided games. Scoring is very-frequent in most of the games so far, a vivid example of which was the contest between Sigma Kru and the Junior Chem. & Mech., in which- the engineers de­feated ¦ the fraternity lads to the very musical tune of 57-6....The, res.ul.ls of last week’s games are ¿s follows: Beta ’i.'TTeta Pi, 161 Boss Hall, 13; Delta Upsilon, 16; Aplha phi- Delta, IB: Theta Xi, 30; Phi Kappa, .10:.JDeltfi. Tau Delta. 50; Kappa Delta Rho, 9; Mc'Gilf Hall, 15; Beta Theta Pi, 12; Alpha Tau Omega, .27; Tau Delta.,Phi, 9; Sigma NÙ. 6; Junior Chem) '& Mech., 57; Sigma Phi Epsilon won from the Phi Psi Club on à forfeit; Kappa- Sigma ;dôfoated - Alpha _sig: ma Phi; Bela.Sigma Rho defeated Pi Kappa Alpha; Delta Tau Delta defeated Phi Sigma Kappa; Theta Xi' defeated Scobel Hall..
Only 26 per <E the ii who
apply to the student date bureau the. University of Toronto have a preference for blondes.
descend to come to the affair, pro­viding you don’t expect a Paul Pendarvis for your twenty-five
STUDENT NIGHTS I f
every Wednesday and Friday \
Carnegie Snatches Close 
Game From GenevaSquad
Panthers Beat 
Plaid Tankers
Captain Ted Rigg and 
Patt High Scorers. 
For Clansmen
LEAD SHIFTS SIDES 
AFTEK FIRST HALF
The Pitt swimming squad came 
through once more last Saturday 
Slight Ho beat ..the Carnegie tank 
team, 56-12, for the tenth straight 
time. The meet was held at the 
Metropolitan Club pool, formerly 
the Keystone Athletic Club and, 
though the pool was thè same kind 
,* Is here at Carnegie, tbe Tartans found it'rather slow. 'Most of the events -were rather closely con­tested though the timers were gen­erally slow. The Plaid managed to lake one flrst, no seconds and all the thirds la. the meet. Captain Vonder Lancken won the 220-yard breaststroke to score the Tartan’s only flve pointer.The Tartan freestyle squad was In rather poor shape and the boys from across the way broke through to register'one, two in every event but the breaststroke. Leavitt put
.hundred in 57 seconds. to win lu hand with Ruhe second and Leavitt third in another fast finish. - Jack Denny, Pitt’s distance 220 in 2:31.2 with' Lewis taking
another first in the 150 back stroke with Jones taking second i Holiday tired towards the last. The
I and third respectively. . Denny scored again in the.440, winning is 5:51, and followed by Lewis and Dennison -spread out well behind him. Meyers and Goyer of Pi " nexed the fancy -diving with Heat* ley of the Plaid taking the third place here. Pitt also won the 400- yard relay in 4:01.1 with Tech fin­ishing fast. The Tartan squad of Leavitt, ¡Deredyn, Holiday, and Vonder Lancken -covered the dis­tance in 4:02 which is the fastest that any Carnegie team- has done the race.'The Carnegie Plebes fell before the onslaught of the Pantli lings to the score of 34-2S.
One eminent professor at tbe University of Washineto slowly fraying nerve ends o .habit that co-eds in his clc of continually powdering and roug­ing during his Iecf he got into a i student, pull< shaving mug and slowly pro­ceeded to lather up .before the < science stricken audience.
featuring Will Ryshanek \
j •and-kisScheolsy Danc& -Band_$.
Ifrom Ten until Two \
; ; : with. Breakfast at Midnight f ^
Special Rates to Student Parties j
For information, telephone MA flower 6400 £
— ? 
FORMAL DANCE every SATURDAY NIGHT j 
j DOLLAR, per person < |
‘d-t
AiicL.an.
T
he fawe op Michigan in
SCHOLARSHIP AND SPORTS IS 
MATCHED BY MICHIGAN'S EX­
ACTING REQUIREMENTS IN MAT* 
TERS OF ATTIRE—THERE THE_ 
INVISIBLE SEAMUNE CLOSURE," 
KOVER-ZIP, IS PREFERRED ' FOR 
ALL TYPES OF APPAREL:
,4 rbor tailor?, like .outstand­
ing college teilors nation-wide 
who are arbiters of style, endorse 
. Kover-Zip as the onJy-slide fas­
tener fit for fine custom clothes.
There is a marked preference 
among "best-dressed college 
seniors for Kover-Zip, it is first 
choice for everything from eve­
ning clothes to slacks.
DON ROGERS
Kovetyj,
WALDE¿ KOH-I-NOOR, INC.: LONG loiiND. CfTY^NEV .YORK ' -
_!
Fre6hmen Have No Trouble 
e^g.owning Covènaiiter 
Plebe Aggregation
"By Ed. Mulligan 
Carnegie managed to ,take one 
of the nip and tuck battle’s'' that 
she has been playing of late wheù 
she downed Geneva, 34-2-9« . Start- 
iut as usual, the Tartans p^led 
big lead early e^ thé gaine, 
only to lose it as the time wore 
i. During the first half ,the. score 
as all for the Skibos/ and tbe 
unt at the half was 1&-13. '
Scots Nab Tiff-Off 
From there on the game, he­me what spectators come expecting to see'at the- Carnégle floor this season: a fast-scoring, fast-moving contest, with the lead changing hands frequently. One to the advantage of- the Tar- was the fact, that James and Fitzwllson both were - stretching bove the Geneva centers to con- ol the tip-off. With this help and the good eyes of Patt and Captain Ted Rigg, who kicked in 10 and 13 points respectively, Carnegie pulled the game out of the Are. Car­negie committed twelve louls and Geneva eight. Of these tho Sklbos dropped in four and the Covenan­ters counted seven times.
Shift Defense - 
Both of thé teams shifted in >ne .to . man-to-man during the game. When Carnegie dropped back in the scoring, the. team changed from the zone défense " tbe man-to-man and quickly-ran the points. This was evident in the closing minutes when Gene^ was leading by two points, r soon as Carnegie stopped her zoi system, Rigg dumped in two'buck­ets and Patt sent one through, the set for a count. These, with a freo throw by Rigg, ended thé scoring and cinched the ball game for thi Institute.-Carnegie ployed one of the best games ot the year to take the Covenanters Tuesday,, and -from the spectators’ standpoint no moro could be desired.The freshman team, coached by Red Sllvermani set the. yi.sltlug frosh back quite decisively tc tun© of 30-27.
Tartans Face 
W.&J., Hoyas
Announce Changes Made 
, In Skibo Schedule
The • Tartan basketball squad seems to.have started on the road back once more. having put one over on . the GehevaN squad.. Of course, that Temple- . game. - laei nJght "niis pretty tough on the ^oys but. the battleB in the oiling '..as formidable as the past
Ington and Jefferson lads showed .little to date, having play­ed three games and lOBt the same amount. Decisive defeats by. such
teams ns Bethany, Juniata,: and Penn State indicates' some' weak- and, utaless this Is repaired
I svictory.
Another game that may give the Sklbos a chance to advance their standing is tho Georgetown game, to be' played in Washington, D. C., this coming Saturday. This• is.u return game, the Tartans having started off the league season by defeating the Hoyas on the Carne­gie floor. Both teams stand, nt the bottom and this gamthe other the ____wanted upward push. With .all the floor,, and everything
Another announcement of intor- est to.the Carnegie floor'fans is a slight change in schedule. .Buck* nell University recently dropped out <bf ' the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball' Conference and the two games with the Sklbos have-been cancelled. Max- Hannum announces, however, that the opening left in
has been shifted to January
Women’s Rifle Team 
Makes Proud Record
A new record In prone shooting 
was set by tho women’s ville team 
last weok when the Misses Wetlach, 
Shultz, Lehr, Frederick and Stulen 
hit 500 out of a possible 500. It was 
the flrst time such a score line 
ever been shot on the. Tartan gal-
lery. Totals for the flve highest the Meri-s Varsity . in prone, kneel­ing, and standing were: Broad-head,' 282; Melllnger, 281; Cullen. 273; Dervaes. 271; and Albiino, 268. ..The Men’s Varsity is devot­ing most of Its practice to-improv* Jng'tbe kneeling and standing.posi­tions.- The Carnegie rl lie team will mee.t Cornell, Worcester Polytech, nnd Stanford this'-week. The com* petition will be telegraphic.
The Woodlawn
!P tlçir 111 a. G y 5200 Forbes Street
SPECIAL
Foiu-iyear Collegiate Dinvy,...................26c
47c. Evei'shturp. Pencil..........................39c
; .Correspondence Portfolio ..............:.....29c
Pipe, Union Leader Tol)neco, and Poucli... 98c
Complete lane of Valentine Candy and Cards
Let us deliver your Valentine.

---------------------------------------------------

WM
THE GARNEGlÉ TARTAM'y;'ElIESDkYv-ÍANÜARI-.-22¿:.1935
THE 
CARNEGI E 
PLAID
P*n aiited b; Nlght S kraeglc Insti tat« of
T titt*:EdlU5rla1 Board.ot Motoarily-c« loard of- the Dar í
G. W. VESSELS H. INGHAM .B. F. WHITE • WILLIAM E. HAKE
The Saar Votes
tbe residents of the Saar, the world wonders with the mountaineers of a current comic atrip •"whut’s aU the furse about.” However, a little direct thought on the subject re­sults in the conclusion that tbe residents of the disputed area were offered a “beads 1 win, tails you lose" proposition by tbe League ot Nations. Admittedly, as a com­posite picture, the district with its vast natural resources 1b mightily important politically and economic­ally. and an almost indispensable supply of war material to both France and Germany, agaiuat the day when their militarists feel in­clined for a romp.The Individuals making up the population of the district, needless to aey, do not completely concur in their plan's and views with either ot them close neighbors. Already, even before ownership is a patent fact the Nazis are- rumored to have begun reprisals against those who 
were bold and ^honest enough to criticise their actions when under the protection ojt the League. A great' exodus has begun.- A com- . ptete change In currency and. moue- tary. standards will be forced on ihe • people. Divorcement from France, the chief consumer In re­cent' years of the raw materials of the. district, will cause hardship Among operator.and laborer alike. . ' Perhaps, In'belng faced.wlth the necessity of choosing bet
Idle Thoughts 
of an :
Idle Night 
".Student -
Industries To 
Dance Jan. 26
Will- Click’s , Orchestra 
Will Fjirmsb Music
NOVEL DECORATIONS
You’re tellioe me—
That the last days are here. Oh yeah! for some of us it Is all too true and' I am woaderlng what I shall do with my spare time after I am out. What's In my mind— ¦well those pesky examinations of courfee. These are as it were judgment days—with the judge avd jury all set against us—or it would
Years’ First Dance Expected 
To Draw Record Crowd
i that /\t of lthis question need­less to say it would be thumbs down—for after all what good are exams except to get one all wrought up and excited. Some day th/> utopia will bo reached and there won’t be any exams to fuss about.
if trying to get by ha; pliehed much. The tricks I havi ilnd are taking notes, trying ti keep • in step with the lecturi ourses, missing as few assign nents as possible, and in-a genera /ay racing afon® at a'great paci ¡etlng myself on the way back—
College of Industries will bold :e in Thistle 'Hall on Saturday ilng, January 26. Tbla is the first 'event of this nature that has been sponsored by the IndusU’Ials the present' school
That there is a cloud with a ell- >r lining on the horizon for isn’t there a dance this Saturday eve-' ing. Why, of course, the Indus- trles;—or should • I soy the depart­ment of Engineering where the shop'courses are given—us me- chanlcB-^you know—since I under­stand all of thi9 section has absorbed by. the engineers—So
tlon. Under tbe outward guise of 'assured liberty, tbey were faced with the rather dubious honor of deciding by a - majority vote ; whether tbey would be an outpost of Germany against France, or vice versa,' in the: days which it is hoped
We are assured that the outcome ¦ of the election meant peace, by re­lieving, the tension existing over 'claims of ownership of the district, -’jt Is hoped that the tension has not .merely been absorbed by the net» '.masters of the Saar to • provide. . much needed impetus; to their ' tionaUstlc plans.
Big Steél
: It is conservative to say that
; nouncement of the United States : Steel Corporation that the six day 'week'was to be adopted once more. 'Representing an increase in sala- : jles and .wages, the lengthening of. ¦ ¿he working ' week adequately iJresaes the faith of “Big Steel1 the firmly grounded upswing j Jri progress. As usual, the smaller . producers, heartened by this ext ' pie, are' following suit.C H ,A large number of the night e •dents of Carnegie are directly 'indirectly dependent upon the Cor­poration and its : subsidiaries . for . tbeir 'earned Income. All of them . lave commented favorably upon the fair and honest effort made by : • tbe.corporation to provide employ­ment for the maximum number of employees throughout the depree-
NIGHT LIGHTS
•The bashful
speaker while the Blochlnger] twins. Nell and Eddie, are fast de-j ..veloping into expert plng-pongeva.. -• Nowlt “oaiy Bill eEiedUfetcr -couM• loo9e that Inferiority complex.. .... They eay that Mrs. Schultz (Jean - ScaiiTbo): " tlie “unofficial • siscretary-ot the N. S. C.. studied German r• ehe could talli to her husband . . --•Ha« Matt Crawford finally given tip,hfa campaien for phone booliiia'V ¦Machinery Hail, or did lie man. the girl ... A. Lalli waa glimpsed
all of which don'tt for much—
attendance is anticipated.The decoration committee promised that Its work will beIth dispatch. Tbey say that the general, motif will carry tbe atmosphere of tbe College ot Industries.The music will be furnished by Will Click and his orchestra. We that this organization 
needs little introduction to the stu- of Carnegie. It' will be re­membered that this group furnish­ed the .music for. the recent .Night Student Council dance. Judging
by those present, it is felt that the musical portion of the pro­gram can not be other than suc­
cessful. .This dance is sponsored by the
members of that college. Admis­sion will be granted on showing an IndiiBtrieB registration card.Among the guests who have been invited to attend' the affair are, Messrs.. John . Blackhatl, William Dosey, J. M. Raubenstraw, CharleB
Workers Asked to 
Report Jan. 26 th
triés, as wçll,as all students who'var'e . Interested in earn­ing points-toward -an Inslg-. nfa Award, are.’ requested to meet in'Thistle Hall, on Sat­urday, January 26, at 1:30 p. m. The purpose for this meeting Is. to decorate Thls-
__ due cause. By this timeyou should Save at least half of the points necessary. If you haven't,- get busy. •.
Len Smith will start talking about his tropical swordfish (1% inches long) on the allghtest pr<
he couldn't define - the difference between a banker and a bandit.
well fold up their tents/ Their varied theories of values in tics do not seem to apply to dent politics. At the University of Missouri student election, 200 i votes were cast than thex students. Like occurences ported.at Ohio State and Mlchlga
Council Dance 
Well Attended
Click’s - Orchestra Wins 
Fancy of Students
On Saturday . evening, January 12, Thistle Hall presented a scene of gayety and charm. The Hall was decked, in gala array with metallic drapes to which the cok»rs reflected from the brilliant globe suspended from the celling gave added beauty. Various coloi spot • lights were focussed on i slowly.- revolving globe
under which the hall took added charm. . The occasion for this spendor was the Post-Holiday Dance .sponsored by the Night Stu­dent Council. \ •The music for this function hy Will Click and hi This was the initial of this group on the Night Campus . but' from all indications It will not be the last.The Social Committee is to 1 congratulated for the .excelled of this affair. Their hard work and earnest effort in perfecting and executing the plans were the majoi
Industries Secretary Is Also 
Business ^aj\q^pryöf
Well Knowñ Student Has. 
Talcen Active Parí in ,-¡ 
• IPoric of Council- ¦¦ -
^é ' staft Jtákes Agr|at' pleosürc thfs iveek in présenting'Édmund W. Drensen. Mr. Prensen has been on the campus of tbe Carnegie Instl- tute of Technology íor three years. He enrolled in 1931. He is at pree-
dustriea. Mr. Dreosen ber of the Night. Sludent Council by virtue of being elected to the
fact that he is a thorough student, be still finds time to take an en­thusiastic part in night school ac-
irnity. Mr. Drepsen cently appointed business mana- of tbe 1935 Thistle, which is ihe section of the annual yearbook
success in bis present t
Didja Notice
floor on dânee night?THAT the . College on Indus­tries is going to hold a dance. Sissies!THAT the. treasurer of. the N. S. C. was conspicuously absent from the Council dance? Lock, the safe, Herman. ' ,THAT the ex-president of Art9 spent the Christmas
THAT that so and so the Ro.v-'
twineTHAT a certain parly enter* talned himself by pulling the decorations down ' before the dance waa over. Ju6t% for '.that he won’t get any points.THAT will Click sure did.THAT the boys ever irr Arts are cooking up another dance. It la estimated that If all of the. eampua dancers were stood, on ' top of each other, "they would fail over. '• THAT a. certain member of the staff who yearns
Sort.of yearning for the ¡ompany oF his own Ilk.THAT one of .our young hope-
of health, but la troubled. Jf this young man will drop into my office t shall
E. W. DRENSEN
Reginald Crashes Gate 
At Night Council Dance
Resentment of Writer 
Aroused by Suspicions
¿Thiels phU Space agate- I bavo lrpen .accuse,d. ;> oi ./attempting to write In opposition'to’the -Roving Reporter, and I weu'd ìike to say .th'at nothing could be mòre* Insult­ing. I Rrijle myself in ¿that I baro 
Edmethjng;'to Y^t^'abp&U'wl^I^Tth.e Itovfng Reporter . .“ well you'—‘ see for yourself, rj-notice that... «Tdl/dàn^s:; are. being /pl^pnfei j must oil up my corinectidns'and 'see if I can shake a log without-spend­ing the usual price. By the way, uow is the time for all good men to come to the aid of tbe home-team, since tbe big •’brawn and beef men from industries are being paged for preparation work.
Enginee rs ’Society 
Plans Job Survey
whether employed or unemployed, should send tbair names and ad­dresses to tbe society headquarters West Thirty-ninth street, New
(BONG!)
Two moons rose over the city. 
When there should have been but
all those responding, in an effort to determine factors contributing to employment and compensation andtbe relation 'of engineering to other ofessions. A final analyses of the situation will be made by. the A phenomena says you. Quite. United States Bureau of Labor 
Statistics and will bo published as a Federal document.The engineering students at Car-
hut the cause of this phenoi 
what you will be interested is. It 
was this way. The other P. M. I 
made a little bet wiin myself, 10c to 
win and a Dickie to place, that ! could get into the N. S. C. dance without a complimentary ticket. Of course I won the bet and my pride did, quite naturally swell, that is why two moone i -.-•..thè city, profession,
uegle are urged to cooperate
possibility of securing employment r advancement in the civil, engl- leering line or rnay show the ad- isabilltÿ of changing to some other
The - Commodore
NEXT TO STANLEY THEATER
Al Buhl
arid His Orchestra 
Every Saturday 
•
No Cover Charge
; Metallurgical Board 
Meetsr Here Feb. 8
gistd fïom the .industry will dis* 
¿uss the ‘finding oí the Carnegie In* 
v;estlgatorfl. ,IncIùded in thè gròu’pi 
erre È. ‘Bajfh/.-ihetallurgist, S.- .Steel ,Çorporâ't}on; ; W. P. Sykes metaUurglcal^.èijgfneer, Cleveland Wiré. W.úrkfl;”f'tír::'J-..B. Austin, re- sêarchilàboratçrÿ^.ïJ'i S. Steel Cor- Roratl<fe¿' LppîB^'rJordan, U. Sv Bureau“or’ Sta!ndàrds; j.- D. Góld> chief metallurgist, Weirton Steel Company; Dr. A. B. Klnel, chief metallurgist, Union' Carbide and
D. King, open-hearth committee, Ü. S. Steel Corporation.An informal dinner at the Uni­versity Club will conclude the meeting. .The speaker for ithis
occasion will be J. Steele Gow di! rector of the Falk Foundation will spèaKJoü* “Research in iS Economic Field.”
. The laboratories o/ Csraegie 
tie7 ôpeiiîipr tflspectlb'n to viaii^S on SaWdaÿ morning- H
STUDENTSWANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented» re­paired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.
American WritingMachine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 6488 Bee our School representative DICK HAMMOND
SECHER’S
' 1714 Murriiy Avenue
the place to 
eat
because...
S Good Food 
©Conveniently 
Located
»Atmosphere 
©Music Every Evening
Art Schamberg, 
Class ’21, Piino 
Bhea—Singing
“The Students’ 
Rendezvous”
... no extra.charge
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
"TEE OAKLAND 
BANK”
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
®•I*9
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Tie/bre dvsihg this pluiMut evetihtg... 
ivbicb bas ht eu held hi the Interests f>f 
truth ami hrtvhy... may I say...
Long bpeecht-s have been made 
about diis and that, but when it
lOII'L"! in .1 umili ieRaiyuLELa un
iay it all in just a few words ...
TASTE BETTER
A^.ykl
